2 
中文摘要 (Chinese Abstract) 
因為其使用率快速增長，Podcast (播客)
這個新英文字，三年多前被新牛津美語字典認
定為 2005 年的風雲字彙 (Word of the Year)。 
當『播客』成為一種最普遍的聯合網路供餵
(Syndication Web Feed)技術之一的同時，如何
善加利用此項新興技術已成為一個值得研究
的題目。 本計畫之目標為研究調查『播客』
技術在增強商務功能與企業服務上之潛力與
優勢，並且將研究、開發、及調查之成果，提
供給業界公司高層主管及企業決策者參考運
用。 
本計畫融入了『播客』技術與相關資通訊
科技，整合開發出應用範型，並針對『網路供
餵系統架構與平台』以及其相關技術的管理關
鍵重點，加以研討與實作。並以開發出之應用
範型，用來支援企業資訊服務、與行動學習等
應用領域。 除了技術上的設計與開發實作
外，本計畫亦針對使用者的觀感與接受度，加
以實證探討其優缺點。而此項使用者研究之成
果，可用來改良本研究所設計與製作的網路供
餵系統及其應用範型。 
 
關鍵詞：網路供餵系統, 播客, 行動商務, 科
技管理, 企業資訊服務, 科技整合 
Abstract 
In recognizing its rapid growth, the term 
‘podcast’ was declared by the editors of New 
Oxford American Dictionary of English (NOAD) 
as the Word of the Year for 2005. Podcast holds 
considerable potentials and opportunities for 
businesses, and it would be desirable for 
companies in various industries to harvest these 
opportunities into business benefit. However, 
there is very little prior research devoting efforts 
to exploring this emerging technology and 
deriving valuable suggestions and guidelines in 
terms of how to take advantage of this new 
medium for enhancing business functions and 
enterprise services. Therefore, this research 
project was conducted to bridge the gap, by 
thoroughly investigating the characteristics of 
podcast technology, exploring its potential 
application domains, proposing conceptual 
frameworks for the integration of podcast 
technology with other state-of-the-art ICT 
technologies, designing and implementing a 
Web feed based framework (WFBF), and then 
applying WFBF to various application domains 
including information systems services, and 
mobile commerce (m-commerce).  
In addition to proposing and validating the 
application paradigms for taking advantage of 
the unique strength of podcast to overcome the 
limitations of traditional communication 
channels, this project also researched on both 
technical and non-technical limitations and 
barriers to the success of the proposed WFBF 
based services and applications, by using WFBF 
built by this project as the test bed. The 
underlying factors influencing audiences’ 
adoption of podcast assisted services and 
applications were identified and investigated, 
and after that, the corresponding business 
implications were also suggested. Our research 
findings may be referenced by business 
executives and decision makers for the purpose 
of making favorable business tactics and 
catching the revolutionary opportunity and 
benefit of the Web feed technologies. 
 
Keywords: Web feed, podcast, m-commerce, 
technology management, enterprise 
information service, technology integration 
 
1. Introduction & Research Objective 
With the explosive growth of the number of 
handheld devices such as mobile phone, PDA, 
4 
enterprise operations.  
 
2. Research Method 
2.1. Conceptual Models 
Based on the characteristics of podcast and 
RSS technologies, a conceptual model (see 
Figure 1) was proposed by this study and 
subsequently a Web feed based framework 
(WFBF) was built to take advantage of the 
potential benefits of podcast, RSS, and the Web 
application paradigm.  
 
 
Figure 1. The conceptual model for delivering 
specialized content (where C1, C2, ... Cn 
represent the delivery of Content_1, Content_2, 
and Content_n respectively, and S1, S2, Sn 
represent the subscription of Content_1, 
Content_2, and Content_n respectively.) 
 
The conceptual model was proposed to 
illustrate the specialized Web feed based 
delivery channel, capture the concept of 
specialization of podcast content, emphasize the 
identified podcast perspectives for various 
application domains, and take advantage of the 
benefit of podcast-facilitated segmentation of 
audience by conducting targeted communication 
activities. Indeed, this proposed model stresses 
the following characteristics: 
 
∙ Audiences can interact with the medium 
∙ Firms (i.e. services providers) and audiences 
(i.e. clients) can interact in a way that is 
actually a radical departure from traditional 
communication environment 
∙ Firms can provide specialized contents to the 
medium and interact with each target group 
 
Through the interviews conducted in our 
prior study, an important communication 
characteristic about two-way interaction was 
identified as a highly desirable feature [8]. Thus, 
in addition to the traditional podcasting delivery 
channel, which is typically from the podcast 
server to multiple clients/audiences, an opposite 
delivery channel  is also established in WFBF 
for the purpose of pulling information from 
WFBF client machines to WFBF server. Figure 
2 shows the conceptual model proposed by this 
study to achieve the desired backward Web feed 
based delivery of digital data. 
 
 
Figure 2. The conceptual model for pulling the 
backup content (where P1, P2, ... and Pn 
represent the delivery of Content_1, Content_2, 
and Content_n respectively.) 
 
2.2. Developing a Sample WFBF Application 
Based on WFBF, a sample application, the 
off-site backup service (OBS), for supporting 
the automatic backup and restoration of 
important files was developed in this project.  
In addition to the required logic for user 
registration, authentication and login, OBS 
provides various data backup/recovery related 
functions and operations, including data backup, 
data recovery & synchronization, configuration 
of backups, encryption & decryption, user/group 
management, reporting, software download & 
installation, and notification & confirmation 
P2 (Pull) 
Content_1
Content_2
Content_n
 
Server 
Client 1
… …
Client 2
Client n
Medium 
(RSS Feed) 
Medium 
(RSS Feed) 
Medium 
(RSS Feed) 
P1 (Pull)
Pn (Pull)
…
Target Client n
Medium 
(Podcasting) 
Content_1 
Content_2 
Content_n 
Firm 
Target Client 1
Target Client 2
C1 
C2 
Cn 
S1 
S2 
Sn 
……
6 
backed-up data from the server.  
 
3. Discussion and Conclusion 
In the contemporary business environment, 
most data carried on a hand-held mobile device 
is a copy of data usually produced and stored 
elsewhere. While mobile devices become more 
and more popularly used as the capture devices 
for generating data, such data are becoming 
more sensitive to device failure until a backup 
copy of the data can be created and kept in safe 
places. This study designed and implemented an 
innovative system for saving important data 
originally on PCs or handheld devices to an 
off-site server. Particularly, the popular Web 
browser interface and the familiar Web 
paradigm make the WFBF backup service very 
friendly and easy to use, and help users back up 
and recover their important data without the 
need of special technical training.  
In addition to acquainting home computer 
users and IT service providers with the emerging 
podcast technology, and describing the 
advantage of Web feed based communication 
and interaction, this study shed light on the 
potentials of podcast as a new asynchronous 
data delivery channel by investigating its 
applicability and effectiveness from home 
computer users’ perspectives. As illustrated in 
Figure 1 and Figure 2, specialization of podcast 
contents and targeted communications are the 
main concepts this study proposed and focused 
on. This project contribute to probe the ways of 
utilizing Web feed technology to service the 
determined target group (i.e. home computer 
users) with specialized needs, particularly in the 
area of mobile data management. 
 
4. Research Accomplishment – a Self 
Evaluation 
The research results related to this NSC 
research project has generated one academic 
article published by IEEE Computer Society 
Press [10]. In addition, the user study on the 
underlying factors influencing audiences’ 
adoption of podcast assisted services and 
applications were identified and investigated, 
and the results also generated one academic 
article published by an international refereed 
journal [11]. Furthermore, the conference paper 
published by IEEE Computer Society Press is 
now under review by the Special Issue on 
Advanced Intelligent & Security Services in 
Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing, Journal of 
Intelligent Manufacturing (which is an SCI 
journal). 
Based on the fact that two academic papers 
related to our current NSC research project have 
been published by IEEE Computer Society Press 
and an international refereed journal respectively, 
we are therefore assured that our research 
accomplishment meets the original goal of 
designing and implementing a Web feed based 
system with applications for enhancing business 
functions & enterprise services. 
 
5. References 
[1] Roussos, G., Marsh, A.J., Maglavera, S. 
(2005). Enabling pervasive computing 
with smart phones. IEEE Pervasive 
Computing, 4(2), 20-27. 
[2] Kourouthanassis, P. and Roussos, G. 
(2003). Developing consumer-friendly 
pervasive retail systems. IEEE Pervasive 
Computing, 2(2), 32-39. 
[3] Rumford, R.L. (2005). What You Don't 
Know about Podcasting Could Hurt Your 
Business: How to Leverage & Benefit from 
This New Media Technology. California: 
Podblaze. 
An Innovative Internet Service for Backing up Data on Personal Computer and 
Mobile Devices 
 
Shuchih Ernest Chang 
Institute of Electronic Commerce, National Chung Hsing University 
250 Kuo Kuang Road, Taichung City 402, Taiwan 
E-mail address: eschang@dragon.nchu.edu.tw  
 
Abstract 
 
Nowadays, it is highly important for us to well 
organize, access, and store digital data in a way which is 
efficient and secure. Since there are many incidents which 
may cause the loss of important data, backing up and 
safe-keeping important data into some reliable and 
flexibly accessible media is an extremely important 
practice. In this paper we propose a Backward Web-feed 
Based Framework (BWBF) for supporting the automatic 
backup and restoration of important files by using an 
emerging web technology – the podcast technology. A 
sample BWBF based backup service designed and 
implemented to automatically and asynchronously backup 
files to (and restore files from) BWBF-based remote 
backup servers was described in this article.  
 
Keywords: Podcast; Really simple syndication; Web 
feed; Backup/restoration; Data management 
 
1. Introduction 
 
In this information age, most computer users have 
important information stored on computers and such 
information is hard to replace. At the same time, there 
exist many incidents (such as disk crashes, virus 
corruptions, user mistakes, administration errors, and 
burglary) which may cause the loss of important data. 
Backup practices can help computer users to create 
additional copies of important data and sensitive 
information, thus providing the advantages of data 
redundancy and enhancing the level of information 
security. In the enterprise world, most companies may 
have well defined disaster recovery plans which usually 
include solid backup and recovery processes to mitigate 
the risks of data loss events [1, 2]. However, home 
computer users usually do not have the needed expertise, 
resources, disciplines, or even awareness to define and 
implement feasible backup plans to protect their 
important data, such as financial records and personal 
contact information. In addition, losing pictures or videos 
of a home computer user’s appreciated moment of his/her 
life would be a catastrophe. Thus, it is valuable to design 
and implement a backup service which is particularly 
desirable by home computer users.  
Usually, backup operations would be performed 
locally, and rely on the secondary on-site storage 
devices/media such as tapes, CDs, DVDs, flash memory 
sticks, and so on. To enhance the level of security, one 
may consider advanced and integrated backup plans 
which use an additional off-site server, away from the 
home location where the primary backup server is 
located. Such advanced backup approaches can be 
possibly done by using more sophisticated off-site backup 
technologies, but they are typically more expensive and 
difficult to manage [3, 4]. Nevertheless, off-site backup 
can be further integrated into the overall backup plans to 
achieve an improved level of data redundancy and 
information security, while the original on-site backup 
procedures and activities are still in place as the primary 
backup practice. The disadvantages of off-site backup, 
such as high expenses and high complexity, have to be 
dealt with before such integrated backup plans can 
become feasible and acceptable by the target users. 
Therefore, the objective of our research project is to 
propose and build a desirable off-site backup service that 
is not just low-cost but easy to operate, configure and 
manage. 
The focus of this study is to design and implement a 
backup/recovery scheme from users’ perspectives, 
together with an innovative and web-based service 
architecture which can support the web application 
paradigm, minimize the client-server interaction 
requirements, offer a flexible and reliable operation 
environment, provide an easy-to-operate user interface, 
and increase the applicability of the proposed off-site 
backup service. To achieve this goal, an emerging web 
feed technology, podcast, was adopted in our study as an 
innovative approach to facilitate the communication and 
interaction between client PCs and the off-site backup 
server. The publish/subscribe model of podcast is a 
version of push technology, and in this model the 
podcasters, defined as the hosts or authors of podcast 
programs, choose which files to offer in a feed and the 
International Conference on Complex, Intelligent and Software Intensive Systems
978-0-7695-3575-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/CISIS.2009.52
531
for implementing a terabyte (TB) backup server to be 
even lower in terms of its per-gigabyte price.  
In our research project, it is believed that a cost-
effective off-site backup system can be effectively built 
and configured for providing affordable backup services 
to home computer users. Thus, the first disadvantage of 
establishing and providing off-site backup services to 
home computer users, i.e. high expenses, may no longer 
remain as an issue as long as we follow appropriate 
technical guidelines suggested by prior research [7]. 
 
2.3. Podcast technology 
 
Podcasting is the method of distributing files in 
various formats, such as audio or video programs, over 
the Internet using the syndication feed, which is a 
machine-readable list of the URLs by which the 
multimedia files may be accessed for playback on mobile 
devices and personal computers. The list is usually 
published in the Really Simple Syndication (RSS) or 
Atom format, for providing podcast information, such as 
publication dates, titles, and accompanying text 
descriptions of the series and each of its episodes [8]. The 
term podcast can mean both the content and the method 
of delivery. Not only is podcast analogous to a recorded 
television or radio series, but it can be downloaded 
automatically by using a wide variety of podcast 
software, called podcatcher, which is capable of reading 
feeds from podcast websites, even when the users of 
podcast software are asleep. To notify users of content 
updates, podcasters publish feed links on their websites 
which a podcast user can register with a podcatcher 
running on his/her own machine, and the podcatcher may 
check all websites in its feed list to see if there is any new 
content. For the discovered new content, the podcatcher 
either records the discovery or downloads the new content 
based on the rules set by the podcatcher user. The 
information presented by the podcatcher to users is 
simpler than the information contained in most websites, 
and users do not have to manually dig into the complex 
layouts of target websites. Using the podcatcher as an 
agent, users can be notified of new content without 
actively and repeatedly checking for it, and media files 
can be automatically downloaded without user 
interventions. 
Podcasting is growing rapidly and gains huge 
popularity. According to Nielsen/NetRatings, a global 
company in Internet media and market research, 6.6 
percent of the U.S. adult online population (about 9.2 
million Web users) have recently downloaded an audio 
podcast, and 4.0 percent (about 5.6 million Web users) 
have recently downloaded a video podcast [9]. A report 
from eMarketer, a market research and trend analysis 
firm, forecasted that the number of podcast audiences in 
U.S. would reach 25 million in 2008 and 50 million by 
2010 [10]. It is believed that podcast holds considerable 
potentials for business, and provides promising 
opportunities for various industries. 
Podcast not only allows individuals to publish 
podcast episodes that interested listeners can subscribe to, 
but supports automatic downloading of files to a 
computer and subsequently to a mobile device. Actually, 
the downloaded files can be directly played on the 
computer using any compatible software at the user’s 
choice, such as the Microsoft Windows Media Player. If a 
user owns a portable MP3 player such as the iPod made 
by Apple Computer, the MP3 files can be loaded onto the 
player by synchronizing the player with the computer 
using the podcatcher software. In addition to audio files, 
other forms of files such as pictures, videos, and texts can 
be downloaded from websites to podcast subscribers as 
well.  
Facilitating the distribution of important files or 
sensitive data to remote computers and subsequently to 
suitable handheld devices, podcast technology enables not 
only sending unique and customized contents but 
engaging podcast audience to communications and 
interactions in an asynchronous pervasive computing 
environment. In this study, podcast was chosen as the 
enabling technology for supporting the proposed BWBF 
framework. In addition to the adoption of RSS as the 
blog-inspired subscription format, the proposed BWBF 
inherits the advantages of RSS technology from other 
aspects including: Internet connections suitable for 
downloading large files, the availability of digital music 
player software and weblog software, and the popularity 
of digital audio and video devices. 
 
 
Figure 1. The conceptual model for delivering 
specialized content (where C1, C2, ... Cn 
represent the delivery of Content_1, Content_2, 
and Content_n respectively, and S1, S2, Sn 
represent the subscription of Content_1, 
Content_2, and Content_n respectively.) 
 
3. The web-feed based data backup service 
3.1. The conceptual model 
 
Based on the characteristics of podcast medium and 
RSS technology, a conceptual model (see Figure 1) was 
proposed by this study and subsequently a web-feed-
based framework, i.e. the BWBF, was built to take 
Target Client n
Medium 
(Podcasting) 
Content_1
Content_2
Content_n
Firm
Target Client 1
Target Client 2
C1 
C2 
Cn 
S1 
S2 
Sn 
……
533
Based on the proposed BWBF, an off-site backup 
service (OBS) was developed by adopting the web 
application paradigm, the podcast-based conceptual 
models, and the BWBF framework.  In addition to the 
required logic for user registration, authentication and 
login, OBS provides various data backup/recovery related 
functions and operations, including data backup, data 
recovery & synchronization, configuration of backups, 
encryption/decryption, user/group management, 
reporting, notification/confirmation, and software 
download and installation services. The use case diagram 
of the implemented backward web-feed-based backup 
service application is shown in Figure 4, which describes 
the functional requirements and usage scenarios of the 
implemented OBS application. 
 
 
 
Figure 4.  The use case diagram of the implemented 
BWBF-based backup service. 
 
Based on the use case diagram and corresponding 
usage scenarios, an object modeling process was 
conducted in our project to derive class diagrams which 
were subsequently used to identify and develop 
classes/codes. The use cases were modeled one at a time 
by investigating each usage scenario and then identifying 
the relevant events and interactions from each use case. 
Such events and interactions were used to define the 
significant classes and the relationships between classes 
in a scenario-oriented modeling approach described by 
Larman [14]. Java language was chosen in our project to 
implement identified classes, such as the classes for 
supporting the “data backup” use case, covering the 
operations and interactions for generating RSS feeds and 
managing backup files. Specifically, the synchronous 
communications and interactions between OBS clients 
and server for all use cases were implemented by the web 
application paradigm using the http request/response 
model. The delivery channels enabled by BWBF were 
implemented to support asynchronous communications 
and interactions in various use cases including data 
backup, recovery, reporting and notifications.  
 
3.4. An example of using the backup service 
 
To safe-keep important files by using the OBS 
application, an OBS client may use any personal 
computer or web-enabled computing device (such as 
PDA, iPod, and smart phone) to establish a connection 
with an OBS server, and then interact with OBS 
application via various communication channels such as 
the HTTP connection and the RSS feed. After that, the 
user may interact with OBS as described as follows: 
 
1. When a BWBF-based OBS application user has an 
important file to safe-keep, he/she would first register 
with the application, and then download and install the 
OBS client software onto his/her home PC.  
2. Important user/group account information (such as 
User ID, Password, encryption keys, notification 
methods, and reconfirmation options) would be set up 
through the interactions between the client and the 
server. After the client specifies such information, the 
server would record it in a database determined and 
managed on the server-side.  
3. The client side would have to identify its important 
files to be safe-kept, create an RSS feed containing the 
attributes and characteristics of the identified files, 
and then generate a copy of each backup file which 
would be uploaded to the backup server.  
4. The client software would work with the OBS server 
to establish web-feed based communication channels 
including the HTTP service channels and the RSS 
channels. In traditional backup approaches, clients 
must identify and push files to devices or servers 
manually. In our implemented OBS application, the 
server would automatically pull the user identified 
files and data via light-weight RSS feeds from client 
machines, which are the home PCs or other computing 
devices used by registered OBS users.  
5. OBS server software would automatically work with 
its counter parties, i.e. the appropriate OBS clients, to 
check the files and find out which files on the server 
side need to be updated, thus achieving the purpose of 
automatic data backup. 
6. The clients may decide to recover needed files from 
the server via RSS feeds, and then initiate the requests 
for retrieving the backed-up data from the server.  
 
4. Discussion and conclusion 
 
While podcast is growing rapidly and gaining huge 
popularity, there is little prior research devoting efforts to 
explore this emerging technology and derive useful 
Login 
User/Group
management 
Reporting (account 
activities & history)
Data backup
Data recovery & 
synchronization 
Configuration of 
the backups 
Registration  
Software 
installation 
Security management 
(encryption/decryption) 
Notification & 
confirmation 
535
      
      
   420 Int. J. Mobile Learning and Organisation, Vol. 3, No. 4, 2009    
   Copyright © 2009 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.    
      
      
Adopting podcast technology for asynchronous 
learning in the EFL context 
Shuchih Ernest Chang* 
Institute of Electronic Commerce, 
National Chung Hsing University, 
250 Kuo Kuang Road, 
Taichung City 402, Taiwan, ROC 
Fax: +886 4 2285 9497 
E-mail: eschang@dragon.nchu.edu.tw 
*Corresponding author 
Pao-Yao Huang 
Department of Foreign Languages and Literature, 
Tunghai University, 
181, Section 3, Taichung Harbor Road, 
Taichung City 407, Taiwan, ROC 
E-mail: emma_c_huang@yahoo.com 
Abstract: This study aims to shed light on the potentials of podcast as a new 
technology for learning English as a Foreign Language (EFL) by investigating 
its applicability and effectiveness as a tool for EFL students. A research 
framework was formulated by incorporating variables adapted from innovation 
diffusion theory and additional important variables including interaction and 
information literacy. The framework and four hypotheses were empirically 
tested by a survey on EFL students. Our research findings may be referenced 
by EFL students, educators and decision makers for the purpose of making 
favourable tactics to catch the revolutionary benefits offered by podcast.
Keywords: e-learning; electronic media; empirical; ICT use; m-learning; 
podcast. 
Reference to this paper should be made as follows: Chang, S.E. and 
Huang P-Y. (2009) ‘Adopting podcast technology for asynchronous learning in 
the EFL context’, Int. J. Mobile Learning and Organisation, Vol. 3, No. 4, 
pp.420–439. 
Biographical notes: Shuchih Ernest Chang is an Associate Professor at the 
Institute of Electronic Commerce, National Chung Hsing University (NCHU) 
in Taiwan. He received his MSCS and PhD from the University of Texas at 
Austin. Before joining the faculty at NCHU, he worked at UBS Financial 
Services Inc. in the USA as a Divisional Vice President for about 5 years. He 
has 15 years of work experience in major computer and financial service firms 
in the USA, including Unisys, IBM, JP Morgan, UBS. His research interests are 
in electronic commerce, enterprise application architecture, e-learning 
technologies, technology management and information systems. 
Pao-Yao Huang earned a BA in Foreign Languages and Literature from 
Tunghai University in Taiwan, and an MA in Education: Curriculum and 
      
      
   422 S.E. Chang and P-Y. Huang    
      
      
      
files can also be directly played on the computer using any MP3 player software at the 
user’s choice, such as Microsoft Windows Media Player. If the computer user owns a 
portable MP3 player such as the iPod made by Apple Computer, the MP3 files can be 
loaded onto the player by synchronising the player with the computer using podcatcher
software, such as the iTune from Apple Computer. In addition, the content of podcast is 
not limited to audio files, other forms of files such as pictures, videos and computer 
programs can be downloaded from websites to podcast subscribers as well. MP3 player 
has become one of the most popular portable digital audio devices in the world, and many 
schools (such as Duke University, University of Washington) are using iPods in their 
language learning programs (Chinnery, 2006). It is suggested that iPod may be used as a 
portable device for supporting just-in-time learning in a convenient anytime, anywhere 
and any-device way (Chong and Chen, 2007). Although most language teachers may not 
wish to become podcast experts, they will be inevitably influenced by the benefits of 
using podcast for their everyday task of language teaching. Thus, it would be highly 
interesting for us to find out how podcast, as an emerging technology, will influence the 
practice of language learning. This article tried to address an important issue about 
whether podcast, as a new language learning tool, can meet the needs of its targeted 
users, particularly the EFL (English as a Foreign Language) students in Taiwan. 
2 Research background 
2.1 Pervasive computing and mobile-assisted language learning 
With the explosive growth of the number of portable devices such as mobile phone, PDA, 
pocket PC and iPod, together with the development of m-commerce, pervasive 
computing technology is bringing the internet to anyone anywhere (Estrin et al., 2002). 
The vision of pervasive computing is to create for people an environment augmented 
with computational resources that provide information and services when and where 
desired (Abowd et al., 2002). Pervasive computing enhances computer use by making 
many computers available and effectively invisible to users throughout the physical 
environment. Advances in data networking and wireless communications, digital-system 
miniaturisation and novel user interfaces are driving the development of pervasive 
computing, which in turn enables a broad range of end-user devices to access data and 
applications on remote servers (Gulliver et al., 2004). Through pervasive computing and 
its related technologies, users can take advantage of a global connectivity of a wide range 
of services anywhere. It is mentioned that new technologies bring new ways to conduct 
business, and ideas of pervasive commerce opportunities abound (Kourouthanassis and 
Roussos, 2003). 
While traditional lecture is considered one of the least effective format of teaching 
and learning (Callahan et al., 2000), it is illustrated by prior studies that various types of 
devices can be used to facilitate mobile-assisted language learning (MALL), and these 
devices include mobile phone (Fallahkhair et al., 2007; Singh and Bakar, 2007), Smart 
Phone (Garcia Cabrere, 2002), PDA (Singh and Bakar, 2007) and podcast (Shim et al., 
2007). Given the widespread acceptance and use of various mobile devices by students, it 
is interesting to examine some of the potential ways in which they might be adapted for 
use in foreign language learning. McLaughlin (2006) pointed out that podcast would help 
enhance university and professional educations, and mentioned that podcast might serve 
      
      
   424 S.E. Chang and P-Y. Huang    
      
      
      
important to investigate whether podcast-assisted language learning programs would 
match EFL students’ interests and needs. Hence, the objective of this study is to shed 
light on the potentials of podcast as a foreign language learning tool by investigating its 
applicability and effectiveness for EFL learning and its value as a new or supplementary 
technology for supporting EFL programs. 
2.3 The perceived characteristics of an information technology innovation 
The adoption of information technology (IT) innovations is critically affected by users’ 
acceptance of the innovations. The more accepting are the users for a new IT system, the 
more willing they become to make changes in their practices and spend their time and 
effort to actually use the system (Succi and Walter, 1999). Innovation diffusion theory 
(IDT) is widely used by researchers to study users’ perceptions of an IT innovation and 
how such perceptions influence users’ adoption of such innovation (Moore, 1987; 
Brancheau and Wetherbe, 1990; Rogers, 1995). A comprehensive survey of innovation 
studies conducted by Rogers (1983) identified five perceived characteristics of innovation 
(PCIs) influencing the diffusion of an innovation. These five characteristics are relative 
advantage, compatibility, complexity, observability and trialability. Among these PCIs, 
prior studies found that only relative advantage, compatibility and complexity are 
consistently related to innovation adoption (Tornatzky and Klein, 1982; Agarwal and 
Prasad, 1998). Nevertheless, Rogers (1995) also stated that potential adopters’ attitude to 
an innovation is extremely important and the attitude is mainly influenced by relative 
advantage, compatibility and complexity of the innovation. 
As pointed out in the introduction of this article, podcast is considered as a 
‘disruptive’ emerging technology, which enables new and renovated ways of doing 
familiar tasks (Godwin-Jones, 2005). In this respect, compatibility is not considered in 
our preliminary investigation on users’ adoption of podcast technology for EFL learning, 
and instead, relative advantage and complexity are incorporated in our research 
framework. Based on IDT, Moore and Benbasat (1991) developed an instrument to 
identify and measure important factors influencing individual users’ adoption of IT 
innovations. In their work, relative advantage, the degree to which using a new 
technology is superior to using other technologies, is found to be an important factor 
affecting users’ adoption of IT innovations. It is also noted that the relative advantage of 
an innovation over existing technologies is an important adoption driver (Agarwal and 
Prasad, 1998; Robertson et al., 2007). 
Complexity refers to the degree of difficulty that a user has in using an innovation, 
and it can be considered as the opposite of ease of use, which is also pointed out by 
Moore and Benbasat (1991) as an important factor influencing users’ adoption of IT 
innovations. It has been empirically proved that the complexity associated with using an 
IT could limit its optimal usability (Chau and Hu, 2001; Norman, 1999). Conversely, if 
the overall complexity involved in using an innovation is relatively low, the uncertainties 
and concerns surrounding its use would be minimised, and not surprisingly, complexity as 
an innovation characteristic has been shown in prior research to be consistently related to 
innovation adoption (Agarwal and Prasad, 1998; Tornatzky and Klein, 1982). 
According to prior research (Agarwal and Prasad, 1998; Moore and Benbasat, 1991), 
additional factors other than the PCIs outlined by Rogers (1983) may also influence 
potential users’ adoption of IT innovations. Prior studies also combined PCIs with 
additional factors, such as end-user characteristics, organisational characteristics and 
      
      
   426 S.E. Chang and P-Y. Huang    
      
      
      
González-Lloret (2003) mentioned that an important language teaching methodology 
principle is to foster cooperative learning, which occurs during the interaction among 
groups of students, and such peer interaction promotes support, acceptance and social 
development. Strambi and Bouvet (2003) stated that language learning environments 
should provide occasions for learners to engage in interaction and negotiation of meaning 
since the interactions between learners, instructors and other sources of the target 
language are necessary to achieve the learning objective by maximising input exposure 
and output production. Lai and Wu (2006) also showed that better interactions among 
students and instructors can be achieved through using handheld devices such as PDA 
and consequently students’ attitudes and performance can be enhanced. As one of the 
most recent and fastest growing ICT technologies, podcast offers expanded opportunities 
via handheld devices for language learning beyond the limits of time and place that are 
inherent to face-to-face interactions. Based on the aforementioned findings of prior 
research, interaction was considered as an important factor in our study and incorporated 
into our research model as an additional variable to empirically test the impact of 
interaction on students’ intention to use podcast in the EFL context. Thus, the following 
hypothesis was posited. 
H3: Interaction has a positive impact on EFL students’ intention to use podcast 
technology for learning English.
3.1.3 Information literacy as yet another additional variable 
According to American Library Association (1989), information literacy is “the set of 
skills needed to find, retrieve, analyze, and use information.” It can also be defined as 
“the ability to recognize when information is needed and to locate, evaluate, and use 
effectively the needed information.” Shapiro and Hughes (1996) contended that 
information literacy should be conceived as “a new liberal art that extends from knowing 
how to use computers and access information to critical reflection on the nature of 
information itself, its technical infrastructure, and its social, cultural and even 
philosophical context and impact.” In their article, a profound question is raised about 
whether we are facing a broader and deeper challenge for rethinking our entire 
educational curriculum in terms of information, given that in our daily lives, we are 
experiencing not only the overload of information organised and transmitted via IT but 
the way in which public issues and social life are increasingly affected by IT issues. 
Technology literacy as a part of information literacy has been identified as an integral 
part of learning and teaching, and this was supported by the US President Clinton as an 
education technology initiative to make students technology literate (Clinton, 1996). 
Information literacy is gaining recognition as the underpinning skill and competency 
required for students to function in the information age for both personal and work 
successes (Adler, 1999; Oman, 2001). Nevertheless, information literacy skills are 
necessary components when educators are selecting various forms of resource-based 
learning to help students focus on the process of constructing their own knowledge, 
creating their own understandings and learning from the content. Since there is an 
important relationship between information literacy and technology-assisted learning in 
the information age, information literacy was added into our research framework as yet 
another additional variable to conduct the user study on the adoption of podcast in the 
EFL context. In this respect, the following hypothesis regarding information literacy was 
postulated: 
      
      
   428 S.E. Chang and P-Y. Huang    
      
      
      
items for improving the readability before they were used in the formal survey. In 
addition, to ensure that the instrument possessed acceptable reliability, three 
questionnaire items were deleted from the original questionnaire. The final version of 
questionnaire consists of 24 items for collecting demographic information and measuring 
the five variables described in Table 1. 
Table 1 The variable and corresponding concept 
Construct Concept Reference
Relative advantage EFL students may feel that using podcast indeed 
enhance learning result and improves learning 
experience (i.e. podcast may provide relativ 
advantage over other existing ICT) 
Rogers (1983); Moore 
and Benbasat (1991) 
Low complexity The degree that EFL students feel about 
using podcast for EFL learning is not difficult 
Rogers (1983); Moore 
and Benbasat (1991) 
Interaction Podcast offers expanded opportunities via 
handheld devices for social interaction and 
language learning beyond the limits of time 
and place that are inherent to face-to-face 
interaction 
Strambi and 
Bouvet (2003); 
González-Lloret (2003); 
Lai and Wu (2006); 
Uden (2007) 
Information literacy The set of skills needed for EFL students to 
find, retrieve, analyse and use information 
American Library 
Association (1989); 
Shapiro and Hughes 
(1996); Adler (1999) 
Intention to adopt 
podcast 
Indicate how strongly EFL students intend to 
use podcast for learning foreign language 
Moore and Benbasat 
(1991) 
4 Results and analysis 
After a total of 203 responses were gathered, and invalid survey results were identified by 
techniques such as the use of reverse questions. Overall, 161 valid questionnaires were 
collected and used for analysis. Among the 161 respondents, 68.9% were male and 31.1% 
were female. Their ages ranged from 18 to 41 years, and the majority (over 85%) of the 
collected samples was from 18 to 27 years old. As for the educational background, 56 of 
the 161 informants (34.8%) had or were pursuing postgraduate degrees, 95 (59.0%) were 
college students or had bachelor degrees and only 10 (6.2%) did not receive college 
education. In terms of occupation, students formed the major group. 
In addition to the demographic information, data collected for measuring the five 
variables described in Table 1 were used to purify the instrument by removing items with 
poor measurement properties from further consideration. For this purpose, each 
questionnaire item was checked by standard procedures such as deleting the item with 
low corrected item-to-total correlation value, and conducting exploratory factor analysis 
for deleting items that did not load on an appropriate high-level factor. Through this 
purification process, 3 questionnaire items were deleted and the remaining 17 items were 
used for the subsequent data analysis. The descriptive statistics including the mean value 
and standard deviation for the collected valid survey results are listed in Table 2. 
      
      
   430 S.E. Chang and P-Y. Huang    
      
      
      
Table 3 Corrected item-to-total correlation and Cronbach’s alpha 
Factor/construct Item Corrected item-to-total correlation Cronbach’s alpha
RA_1 0.728 
RA_2 0.773 
RA_3 0.799 
Relative advantage (RA) 
RA_4 0.780 
0.896 
LC_1 0.695 
LC_2 0.749 
Low complexity (LC) 
LC_3 0.480 
0.793 
Int_1 0.598 
Int_2 0.632 
Interaction (Int) 
Int_3 0.629 
0.781 
IL_1 0.690 
IL_2 0.660 
Information literacy (IL) 
IL_3 0.506 
0.730 
I_1 0.792 
I_2 0.747 
Intention to adopt podcast (I) 
I_3 0.667 
0.876 
 I_4 0.740  
Factor analysis was used to measure construct validity and to find out the 
intermeasurement correlations. There are some rules to measure whether the data in this 
study are suitable for factor analysis. Firstly, the greater the value of Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin 
(KMO) measure is, the more communal the factors are and the data would be more 
suitable for factor analysis. Specifically, the KMO value of 0.8––0.9 is meritorious 
(Kaiser, 1974). In this study, the KMO value of 0.832 (see Table 4) is reasonable, passing 
the required standard. Secondly, the significance of Bartlett’s test of sphericity also 
indicates that the correlation among variables is suitable for factor analysis. 
Principal component analysis was used to extract factors. As shown in Table 5, the 
communalities of all items ranged from 0.626 to 0.849, higher than the standard of 0.60 
suggested by Kaiser (1974). Using the rotation method of Varimax with Kaiser 
Normalisation, each group of items related to each particular construct was extracted into 
one component as described in Table 5. It was suggested the eigenvalue of each 
component should be higher than 1 (Hair et al., 1998), and the eigenvalues of all 
extracted components in this study exceeded this threshold. The extracted factors explain 
74.248% of the total variance, and all items loaded high (ranging from 0.655 to 0.904) on 
the expected constructs, signifying the desirable measurement of convergent validity. In 
addition, the analysis result also showed that no cross-loading items were found and all 
item loadings on their associated factors were significant, supporting acceptable 
discriminant validity. 
Convergent validity can also be assessed by determining whether relations between 
item scales of the same factor are higher than zero and adequately large to carry out 
      
      
   432 S.E. Chang and P-Y. Huang    
      
      
      
Table 6 Analysis of intermeasurement correlation 
 IL1 IL2 IL3 Int1 Int2 Int1 RA1 RA 2 RA 3 RA 4 LC1 LC2 LC3 
IL1 1.000             
IL2 0.792 1.000            
IL3 0.488 0.472 1.000           
Int1 0.230 0.179 0.012 1.000          
Int2 0.169 0.117 0.045 0.532 1.000         
Int3 0.064 0.032 0.043 0.528 0.575 1.000        
RA1 0.152 0.162 0.170 0.328 0.415 0.342 1.000       
RA 2 0.258 0.261 0.120 0.477 0.455 0.419 0.649 1.000      
RA 3 0.178 0.202 0.183 0.426 0.403 0.298 0.667 0.713 1.000     
RA 4 0.279 0.229 0.191 0.426 0.473 0.446 0.646 0.695 0.729 1.000    
LC1 0.237 0.229 0.255 0.402 0.434 0.298 0.382 0.415 0.362 0.426 1.000   
LC2 0.324 0.343 0.247 0.430 0.423 0.368 0.331 0.390 0.317 0.398 0.783 1.000  
LC3 0.134 0.069 0.182 0.243 0.389 0.306 0.395 0.323 0.271 0.430 0.422 0.485 1.000 
Figure 2 The result of this empirical study 
Since our research model contained only one layer of relationships between four 
independent variables and one dependent variable, regression analysis was deemed 
appropriate and used to investigate the structural relationships among the research 
variables and derive the corresponding standardised coefficients. The regression results, 
as shown in Figure 2, confirm our hypotheses that relative advantage, complexity,
interaction and information literacy have positive influence on EFL students’ acceptance 
of podcast technology. The results indicated that relative advantage has a significant 
effect toward EFL students’ adoption of podcast (ȕ = 0.635, p = 0.000), low complexity
has a significant effect toward EFL students’ adoption of podcast (ȕ = 0.119, p = 0.031), 
interaction has a significant effect toward EFL students’ adoption of podcast (ȕ = 0.158, 
p = 0.005) and information literacy also has a significant effect toward EFL students’ 
adoption of podcast (ȕ = 0.103, p = 0.028). As a matter of fact, all four hypotheses 
postulated in this study were supported by the empirical result, and all four constructs in 
our proposed research model altogether explained 70.8% of the variance (R2 = 0.708) in 
EFL students’ intention to adopt podcast for enhancing their foreign language learning. 
      
      
   434 S.E. Chang and P-Y. Huang    
      
      
      
ICTs, such as the internet and multimedia technologies, may offer relative advantage
over traditional media for language learning (González-Lloret, 2003; Strambi and 
Bouvet, 2003), and perceived advantage, which impacts students’ usage and satisfaction 
of an innovation, should be considered in evaluating the innovation (Corlett et al., 2005; 
Fallahkhair et al., 2007). Our other finding about complexity, which directly influences 
EFL students on the adoption of podcast, is in consistence with prior research results 
stating the complexity of IT is often cited as a limiting factor in using IT (Chau and Hu, 
2001; Norman, 1999). Therefore, we derived a suggestion based on this empirical result 
for EFL educators and decision makers to design and offer appropriate podcast-assisted 
programs (specifically emphasising relative advantage and low complexity) expected and 
desired by the students, instead of relying on the bombastic effect of any emerging 
technology terms to promote their program. 
According to the regression result, interaction is found to be an important factor, with 
the second highest impact on EFL students’ intention to adopt podcast. This finding is 
consistent with an essential guideline suggested by González-Lloret (2003) that an 
effective language learning tool needs to foster communication and help students increase 
the comprehensibility of target language by promoting interaction. Chang and Cevher 
(2007) pointed out that podcast can be viewed as a new method for supporting pervasive 
computing, which provides end users with new ways of accessing internet applications by 
utilising various wireless channels from any device, anytime and anywhere. They also 
developed a conceptual podcast application model stressing various aspects of interaction 
between consumers and the podcast medium, between enterprises and consumers and 
between enterprises and different target groups. As an important implication derived from 
Chang and Cevher’s work and our empirical result, EFL educators and decision makers 
should pay attention to the interaction feature when designing and implementing podcast-
assisted EFL programs. Regarding podcast as an interactive medium, Chang and Cevher 
also proposed a two-way interaction concept, which was applauded by subject matter 
experts, and this concept should be applied to podcast-assisted EFL learning mainly 
because it accounts for the fact that EFL students may not only actively choose whether 
or not to approach podcast websites but also exercise unprecedented control over the 
podcast content they interact with. Thus, it is suggested as one more implication for EFL 
stakeholders to appreciate the student as an active individual in an interactive learning 
environment and develop an effective EFL learning strategy in utilising such an emerging 
medium by a collaborative effort that includes the students. 
From our study result, information literacy (in terms of the ability to recognise when 
information is needed and then to identify, evaluate and use the needed information 
effectively) is found to be significantly and positively associated with EFL students’ 
intention to adopt podcast for foreign language learning. While many instructors from 
various academic institutions are becoming podcast innovators by adopting this emerging 
technology to support podcast-assisted learning programs (McLaughlin, 2006), the 
selection of any particular suitable communication medium requires an understanding of 
the students’ preference and concerns of such new technology. Recognising information 
literacy as the underpinning skill and competency required for EFL students to effectively 
and efficiently function in the information age, EFL educators and decision makers 
should devote efforts to design appropriate curricula and foster environments conducive 
to making students ‘information literate’. The implication is that it is imperative for EFL 
educators and administrators to proactively exploit and understand the complex nature of 
how to help students develop information literacy. For example, they should either 
      
      
   436 S.E. Chang and P-Y. Huang    
      
      
      
useable systems is likely not only to widen the scope of its practical application but to 
contribute to developing a design theory for podcast. 
Before ending this paper, it is perhaps appropriate to suggest some more topics for 
future research. It has been observed that technology has a dual and paradoxical nature 
(Star and Ruhleder, 1996). For example, in organisational transformation, IT has been 
found to be “both engine and barrier for change, both customizable and rigid, both inside 
and outside organizational practices” (Star and Ruhleder, 1996). Taking such insight as a 
cue, it would be interesting and valuable to investigate ‘the other side of the coin’ of the 
positive aspects of podcast, and to see to what extent modifying our requirements can 
reduce the impact of negative aspects. Another topic is to explore how podcast 
technology can be used in other application domains of m-learning, with the necessary 
modifications. A wide scope of applications to podcast technology would make the 
identified and suggested design principles more general in their nature. 
Acknowledgements 
The editors and anonymous reviewers are highly appreciated for their invaluable 
comments and suggestions. This research was supported by a grant from the National 
Science Council, Taiwan, under contract numbers NSC-96-2221-E-005-088-MY2. 
References 
Abowd, G.D., Mynatt, E.D. and Rodden, T. (2002) ‘The human experience’, IEEE Pervasive 
Computing, Vol. 1, pp.48–57. 
Adler, R.P. (1999) Information Literacy: Advancing Opportunities for Learning in the Digital Age. 
A Report of the Aspen Institute Forum on Communications and Society. Washington, DC: 
The Aspen Institute. 
Agarwal, R. and Prasad, J. (1998) ‘A conceptual and operational definition of personal 
innovativeness in the domain of information technology’, Information Systems Research,
Vol. 9, pp.204–215. 
Aladwani, A.M. and Palvia, P.C. (2002) ‘Developing and validating an instrument for measuring 
user-perceived web quality’, Information and Management, Vol. 39, pp.467–476. 
American Library Association (1989) Presidential Committee on Information Literacy: Final 
Report, Chicago, Illinois: American Library Association. Available at: http://www.ala.org/ 
ala/acrl/acrlpubs/whitepapers/presidential.htm 
Ascher-Svanum, H. (1999) ‘Development and validation of a measure of patients’ knowledge about 
Schizophrenia’, Psychiatric Services, Vol. 50, pp.561–563. 
Balasubraman, S., Peterson, R.A. and Jarvenpaa, S.L. (2002) ‘Exploring the implications of 
m-commerce for markets and marketing’, Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science,
Vol. 30, pp.348–361. 
Brancheau, J.C. and Wetherbe, J.C. (1990) ‘The adoption of spreadsheet software: testing 
innovation diffusion theory in the context of end-user computing’, Information Systems 
Research, Vol. 1, pp.115–143. 
Bruner, G.C. and Kumar, A. (2005) ‘Explaining consumer acceptance of handheld Internet devices’, 
Journal of Business Research, Vol. 58, pp.553–558. 
Callahan, E., Shim, J. and Oakley, G. (2000) ‘Learning, information, and performance support 
(LIPS): a multimedia-aided approach’, Interfaces, Vol. 30, pp.29–40. 
      
      
   438 S.E. Chang and P-Y. Huang    
      
      
      
Moore, G.C. (1987) ‘End user computing and office automation: a diffusion of innovations 
perspective’, INFOR, Vol. 25, pp.214–235. 
Moore, G.C. and Benbasat, I. (1991) ‘Development of an instrument to measure the perceptions of 
adopting an information technology innovation’, Information Systems Research, Vol. 2, 
pp.192–222. 
Norman, D.A. (1999) The Invisible Computer. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. 
Nunnally, J.C. and Bernstein, I.H. (1994) Psychometric Theory. New York: McGraw-Hill. 
Oman, J.N. (2001) ‘Information literacy in the workplace’, Information Outlook, Vol. 5, No. 6, 
pp.32–33, 35, 38, 40, 43. 
Oxford University Press (2005) ‘Podcast’ is the Word of the Year. New York: Oxford University 
Press. Available at: http://www.oup.com/us/brochure/NOAD_podcast/?view=usa/. 
Premkumar, G. and Roberts, M. (1999) ‘Adoption of new information technologies in rural small 
businesses’, Int. J. Management Science, Vol. 27, pp.467–484. 
Robertson, A., Lockett, N., Brown, D. and Crouchley, R. (2007) ‘Entrepreneurs' attitude towards 
the computer and its effect on e-business adoption on e-business adoption’, Lancaster 
University Management School Working Paper 2007/028, Lancaster, UK. Available at: 
http://www.lums.lancs.ac.uk/publications/viewpdf/005108/. 
Rogers, E.M. (1983) Diffusion of Innovations (3rd ed.). New York: The Free Press. 
Rogers, E.M. (1995) Diffusion of Innovations (4th ed.). New York: The Free Press. 
Rovai, A. (2002) ‘Building a sense of community at a distance’, International Review of Research 
in Open and Distance Learning, Vol. 3, pp.1–16. 
Shapiro, J.J. and Hughes, S.K. (1996) ‘Information literacy as a liberal art: enlightenment proposals 
for a new curriculum’, Educom Review, Vol. 31, No. 2, pp.31–35. 
Shim, J.P., Shropshire, J., Park, S., Harris, H. and Campbell, N. (2007) ‘Podcasting for e-learning, 
communication, and delivery’, Industrial Management and Data Systems, Vol. 107, 
pp.587–600. 
Singh, D. and Bakar, Z.A. (2007) ‘Wireless implementation of a mobile learning environment 
based on students expectations’, Int. J. Mobile Learning and Organisation, Vol. 1, 
pp.198–215. 
Star, S.L. and Ruhleder, K. (1996) ‘Steps toward an ecology of infrastructure: design and access for 
large information space’, Information Systems Research, Vol. 7, pp.111–134. 
Strambi, A. and Bouvet, E. (2003) ‘Flexibility and interaction at a distance: a mixed-mode 
environment for language learning’, Language Learning and Technology, Vol. 7, No. 3, 
pp.81–102. 
Succi, M.J. and Walter, Z.D. (1999) ‘Theory of user acceptance of information technologies: an 
examination of health care professionals’, Paper presented at the 32nd Hawaii International 
Conference on System Sciences (HICSS’99), Maui, Hawaii, USA, 05–08 January 1999, IEEE 
Computer Society Press. 
Teo, T.S.H. and Pok, S.H. (2003) ‘Adoption of WAP-enabled mobile phones among Internet users’, 
Omega: Int. J. Management Science, Vol. 31, pp.483–498. 
Tornatzky, L.G. and Klein, K.J. (1982) ‘Innovation characteristics and innovation adoption-
implementation: a meta-analysis of findings’, IEEE Transactions on Engineering 
Management, Vol. 29, pp.28–45. 
Uden, L. (2007) ‘Activity theory for designing mobile learning’, Int. J. Mobile Learning and 
Organisation, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp.81–102. 
Walls, J.G., Widmeyer, G.R. and Elsawy, O.A. (1992) ‘Building an information systems theory for 
vigilant EIS’, Information Systems Research, Vol. 3, pp.36–59. 
Wikipedia (2006) Podcasting, Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia. Available at: http://en. 
wikipedia.org/wiki/Podcasting. 
