source is immediately removed after the micropyretic 
reaction has been ignited.  The numbers 30 and 50 
shown in the figure, respectively, denote the 30th time 
step (0.0480 s) and the 50th time step (0.0800 s) of the 
temperature profiles after ignition.  Since the 
activation energy for the Ti + 2 B micropyretic 
reactions is higher than other micropyretic reactions, 
the combustion front of TiB2 system has been found 
to propagate in a rather unstable manner.  In the 
stable propagation, the temperature and propagation 
velocity of the combustion front are kept as constants 
whereas the temperature and velocity are periodically 
changed with the distance in the unstable propagation.  
It is noted from Fig. 3 that the TiB2 combustion front 
oscillates periodically in a succession of rapid and 
slow changes.   
 
Figure 2.  Plots of the temperature gradients at the ignition spot 
during igniting the micropyretic reactions with Ti + 2B.   
 
 
Figure 3. Time variations for the combustion front temperature 
along the TiB2 specimen with the ignition powers of 87.5 
kJ/(g･s) and 962.5 kJ/(g･s), respectively.  Each profile 
denotes one time step and the interval time between two 
consecutive time steps (profiles) is 0.0016 s.  For example, 
the number 30 denotes the thirtieth timestep (0.0480 s) 
after ignition.   
 
Figure 3 also illustrate that the different ignition 
powers significantly change the thermal profiles in the 
initial stage (0.0 - 0.2 cm), further influencing the 
other reaction parameters.  Figure 3(a) shows that the 
combustion front takes 0.0401 s (~ 27th time step) to 
start propagating when the ignition power of 87.5 
kJ/(g ･ s) is used.  When the ignition power is 
increased to 962.5 kJ/(g･s), the energy is quickly 
accumulated at the ignition (left) end to ignite the 
reaction.  Therefore, the time required for ignition 
decreases to 0.0044 s (~ 4th time step), as shown in 
Fig. 3(a).  In addition, the oscillatory frequency of 
temperature variations for the reaction with a higher 
power is larger than that with a lower power in the 
initial stage.  After the combustion front propagates 
far from the ignition spot, there are no significant 
differences in the oscillatory frequency of temperature 
variations between the specimens with the various 
ignition powers.  The numerical calculation also 
indicates that the reaction zone (width of combustion 
front) of the unstable TiB2 combustion front is ~0.03 
cm and the fraction reacted of micropyretic reaction is 
100% after the propagation of the combustion front, 
as shown in Fig. 4. 
 
Figure 4. Typical reacted fraction and temperature profiles during 
the micropyretic reaction with Ti + 2B.  The ignition 
power is taken as 962.5 kJ/(g･s) in the calculation. 
 
 
Figure 5.  Plots of (a) temperature (κ) and (b) heat loss 
(dimensionless) at the ignition spot with the reaction time.  
The bold and thin lines denote reactions with the ignition 
powers of 87.5 kJ/(g･s) and 962.5 kJ/(g･s) , respectively. 
 
Figure 5 shows the plots of the temperature and 
the heat loss at the ignition spot with the reaction time.  
It is found from Fig. 5(a) that the initial heating rate is 
5.61x105 K/s when the higher ignition power (thin 
line) of 962.5 kJ/(g･s) is used.  As the temperature is 
increased to ~2.3x103 K, which corresponds to the 
melting point of titanium, the melting of Ti accelerates 
to start the micropyretic reaction and the temperature 
is sharply enhanced again.  Due to a higher 
temperature gradient, the heat loss is found to 
significantly increase, as shown in Fig. 5(b).  A 
higher heat loss of the pre-heating zone quickly 
ignites the new reaction, causing larger exothermic 
heat of the new reaction to transfer back to the 
ignition spot.  The ignition spot receives the thermal 
energy from the new reaction zone (i.e., previous 
effects of the individual parameters 
The properties of high temperature ceramics are 
strongly related with the local variations of the 
thermophysical / chemical parameters.  Since 
micropyretic synthesis is sustained by the sequences 
of the local chemical reactions, the propagation 
manner strongly depends on the parameters in the 
previous portion (node).  Thus, the thermophysical / 
chemical parameters of reactants is thought to 
significantly change the processing parameters, such 
as combustion temperature and propagation velocity; 
and further affect the high temperature ceramics 
formation.  In this study, we aim to investigate the 
effect of the individual material parameter, such as 
activation energy, exothermic heat, pre-exponential 
factor, thermal conductivity, and heat capacity and 
their correlations to the high temperature ceramic 
product formation. 
The temperature profiles at the ignition point 
during the heating stage for the different values of 
activation energy are shown in Fig. 8(a).  All the 
heating rates at the ignition spot are calculated to be 
1100 K/ms at the initial stage.  The calculated results 
indicate that the micropyretic reaction with smaller 
activation energy (80% E, i.e., 80% of the reported 
experimental value) is firstly ignited and the 
temperature is then sharply increased at 24000 K/ms.  
After the micropyretic reaction has been ignited, the 
addition of external energy is stopped at the ignition 
spot.  The length of pre-heating zone and the heat 
loss at the ignition spot both start to decrease.  The 
amount of activation energy may alter the propagation 
mode.  Thus, Fig. 8(b) is noted that the length of 
pre-heating zone for the TiB2 micropyretic reaction 
with 80% E is gradually decreased to a constant value 
whereas that for the TiB2 micropyretic reaction with 
reported experimental activation energy (100% E) 
oscillates with the propagation.  With a further 
increase in the activation energy to 120% E, Fig. 8(b) 
shows that the zone length is continuously increased.  
This is because the stop of the combustion front and 
the heat in the reaction zone is continuously 
transferred to the pre-heating zone.  The length of 
pre-heating zone is therefore noted to increase until 
the heat in the reaction zone stops transferring.  
Since the heat loss is proportional to the ignition 
time and the ignition time is found to increase with the 
increase in the activation energy, the heat loss is noted 
to increase with the activation energy, as shown in Fig. 
8(c).  As similar with the profiles of zone length, 
Figure 8(d) shows that the propagation velocity for 
TiB2 micropyretic reaction with 80% E is kept at a 
constant value whereas that for reaction with 100% E 
oscillates with the reaction time, indicating 
combustion fronts propagating in the stable and 
unstable oscillatory manner respectively.  With a 
further increase in the activation energy to 120% E, 
the propagation front is extinguished and no 
propagation velocity is recorded in Fig. 8(d). 
The exothermic heat of the micropyretic reaction 
is released after the reaction has been ignited, thus, the 
exothermic heat is not expected to influence the 
thermal profiles at the ignition spot before the 
micropyretic reaction is ignited.  The numerical 
results show that the temperature, zone length, and 
heat loss distributions are identical before the 
reactions are ignited.  After the micropyretic reaction 
is ignited, the combustion front for the reaction with 
experimental exothermic heat is found to propagate in 
an unstable manner.  An increase in the experimental 
exothermic heat (120% Q) offers sufficient thermal 
energy to propagate the combustion front in a stable 
manner.  On the other hand, a decrease in the 
experimental exothermic heat (80% Q) causes the 
combustion front to stop.  Due to the variations in 
the propagation manner, the distributions of the length 
of pre-heating zone, heat loss, and the variations in the 
propagation velocity are correspondingly changed.   
It has been reported that the reaction with a 
smaller pre-exponential factor is equivalent to 
increasing the particle size, further increasing the 
thermal conductivity and the heat loss.  Since 
thermal conductivity for the micropyretic reaction 
with Ti + 2B is noted to be less than that for other 
micropyretic reactions, the increase in the thermal 
conductivity caused by the pre-exponential factor is 
expected to only slightly influence the thermal profiles.  
Thus, it is noted that the length of pre-heating zone 
and the heat loss at the ignition spot are slightly 
increased with the decrease in the pre-exponential 
factor.  In addition, it is found that the temperature 
profiles at the ignition spot and propagation manner 
are also slightly dependent on the pre-exponential 
factor.   
A lower thermal conductivity is noted to reduce 
the heat loss and the reaction with a lower thermal 
conductivity can be quickly ignited.  Table 2 also 
shows that the thermal conductivity for the reaction 
with Ti+2B is lower.  Therefore, the ignition time 
and temperature variations at the ignition spot are not 
expected to change with the thermal conductivity.  In 
addition, the variations in the thermal conductivity are 
also noted to slightly change the zone length and heat 
loss at the ignition spot.  The propagation manner is 
noted to change to a stable mode when the lower 
thermal conductivity (80% κ) is taken in the 
calculation. 
Since the Ti+2B micropyretic reaction has higher 
exothermic heat and smaller heat capacity, the 
variations in the heat capacity are expected to 
dramatically affect the temperature profiles at the 
ignition spot.  Figure 9 shows the reaction with 
smaller heat capacity (80% Cp) is quickly heated for a 
given input energy.  A sharp increase in the 
temperature also increases the transferred heat from 
the ignition spot.  Thus, the zone length and heat loss 
are noted to be larger at the initial stage.  On the 
other hand, the heating rate is decreased and the 
