 2
cytoplasm than abnormal cells. A measure to 
distinguish between normal and abnormal 
cells is the ratio between nuclear and 
cytoplasmic sizes which is called nuclear 
cytoplasmic ratio (NCR). In the past three 
years, we have been cooperating with Dr. 
Po-Chi Huang of the Department of 
Pathology, Taichung Hospital and doing 
researches in automatic detection of Pap 
smear images. We developed algorithms to 
identify abnormal cells in Pap smears. 
Overall, we developed two algorithms. The 
first was to find the edges of the nucleus and 
cytoplasm. The second was to use the 
information of nucleus and cytoplasm to 
identify abnormal cells. We found the edges 
of nucleus and cytoplasm using an active 
contour model called gradient vector flow. 
After finding the edges, we calculated the 
NCR and identified the abnormal cells from 
the normal ones. 
 
Keywords: Pap Smear Images, Nuclear 
Cytoplasmic Ratio, Edge Detection, Active 
Contour Model, Gradient Vector Flow. 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
Several techniques, including 
Fourier-transform infrared [1], colposcopy, 
and Pap smears, have been used for detecting 
cervical cancer and its precursor. Although 
THINPREP has been shown to be more 
efficient than the traditional Pap smear test 
[2], the latter is still a popular and the 
cheapest method for detecting the disease. It 
has greatly decreased the mortality of 
cervical cancer since its introduction [3]. 
Colposcopy, in contrast, is more expensive 
and is used only when consecutive abnormal 
Pap smear tests were positive [4]. 
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is 
believed to be the most important factor for 
causing cervical cancer. The high-risk HPV 
types are connected to at least 90% of 
high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 
(CIN2-3), whereas 15% of the low-grade 
CIN (CIN1) might progress to high-grade [4]. 
Although Pap smears have been 
demonstrated to be an effective technique for 
the detection of cervical diseases, the 
accuracy rate is under 50% [5]. The problems 
are mainly caused by two factors: (1) poorly 
prepared samples greatly influenced the 
accuracy of diagnosis; (2) some abnormal 
cells are too small to easily detect, or they 
may be covered with blood clots or dead 
cells that might be neglected by the 
pathologists. For these reasons, the accuracy 
highly depends on the experience of a 
pathologist. Recently, computer-aided 
systems have been developed to assist 
pathologists to accurately distinguish the 
abnormal cells from the normal. The results 
of early investigations showed that the color 
of disordered squamous cells, after staining, 
is deeper and has a greater nucleus to 
cytoplasmic area ratio than normal cells. It is 
beneficial to develop a computer-aided 
diagnostic system if the nucleus and 
membrane boundaries can be accurately 
detected. 
Even with great advancement in image 
processing techniques, it is still a challenging 
problem to precisely detect an object 
boundary, especially when the background is 
spoiled by noise and artifacts. Color- or 
gray-level gradient is an important feature 
which is often used for boundary detection. 
Traditional methods, such as Sobel and 
Laplacian operators [6], use first- and 
second-order differentiation, respectively, for 
extracting objects from the homogeneous 
background. But if an image was corrupted 
with noise, preprocessing such as de-noising 
has to be done before segmentation, and then 
unreliable boundary connection algorithms 
are needed to link the disconnected segments 
together. Recently, an active contour model 
has been developed and widely used for 
successfully segmenting anatomical structure 
from the medical images, especially in the 
application of ultrasound images [7-9], which 
generally have much lower SNR than other 
image modalities. In this study, we used 
ACM to detect boundaries of the cell nuclei 
and cytoplasmic membranes so that the 
nucleus to cytoplasmic area ratio can be 
measured. The nucleus/cytoplasmic ratio is 
usually used as a benchmark for 
distinguishing the disordered cells from the 
normal [10]. 
 
 4
 
and 
 
By discretizing time (τ), Eq. (9) can be 
expressed as: 
 
where Id is an unitary matrix, ct-1 indicates 
the contour in time t-1 and E’(ct-1) represents 
its external energy. After defining γ =1/τ as 
the viscosity, contour in time t can be 
deformed by updating from contour in time t 
according to the following equation. 
 
Equation (7) can be decomposed into the 
following two equations 
 
in which u and v are components of v and are 
functions of time. Equations (13) can be 
solved by recursive calculation according to 
the following equations: 
 
(3) Methods: 
In this study we detected nucleus and 
membrane boundaries of the cervical 
squamous cells obtained from Pap smears. 
The cell boundary of the squamous cells is 
irregular with apparent convex and concave 
segments, which makes the GVF active 
contour model an efficient tool for boundary 
detection [13]. Two sets of images were used 
for this experiment. The first set (Type-1) 
was selected from the Pap smear image 
database from Taichung Hospital using the 
conventional Pap smear tests, in which 
irregular stains, blood clots, and mucosa 
could be easily found. The second set 
(Type-2) was downloaded from a web site 
containing cells with better image quality. 
Cells with resolution of 64x64 pixels were 
extracted from the images. ACM was then 
used to extract nuclei and membrane 
boundaries for calculation of 
nucleus/cytoplasmic ratio for each cell. 
Model parameters were tuned to precisely 
detect the boundaries by comparing with the 
contours obtained with the manual method. 
Matlab programs based on the method 
proposed by [13] were modified and used for 
this study. ACM parameters, including α 
(elasticity), β (rigidity), σ (variance of the 
Gaussian mask), ϒ (viscosity), κ 1 (GVF 
weight), κ2 (Balloon weight), and µ (GVF 
regulation coefficient), were tuned manually 
to attain best performance for the edge 
detection of cell membranes and nuclei. 
Since the features in the areas outside the 
membrane, inside the cytoplasm, and inside 
the nucleus are different, ACM parameters 
for detecting cell membranes and nuclei are 
different for efficient boundary detection. 
(4) Results: 
 
(a) Membrane detection 
 
(b) Nucleus detection 
Figure 1: Boundary detection of cell membranes and 
nuclei for two Type-1 cells. 
 
(a) Membrane detection 
 
(b) Nucleus detection 
Figure 2: Boundary detection of cell membranes and 
nuclei for two Type-2 normal cells. 
