 2 
摘要 
本計畫研究目的在於設計一微型化被動式感測模組做為WSN基礎節點(node)，除了傳輸各式感
測資訊之外，並發展定位機制，以契合醫療應用需求。在室內定位與路徑追蹤研究上，考慮WSN
訊號衰減情形，研擬低成本無線訊號網路佈建、低計算複雜度與高準確率之啟發式(HPTA)以及禁
忌搜尋(TAPTA)動態路徑追蹤演算法。進行8米正方形與16米曲折路徑追蹤，平均誤差為11.15/9.9
公分(HPTA)以及5.74/4.94公分(TAPTA)。此外，為克服無線訊號易受金屬(手術器械)與含水性物質
(人體組織)影響，分析並導入各式增補技術，以消弭應用端落差。綜觀本研究主要創新技術有二：
無線感測訊號衰減量化模型、啟發式/禁忌搜尋動態路徑追蹤演算法。 
關鍵詞：無線感測器網路、室內定位、路徑追蹤、啟發式/禁忌搜尋 
 
 
Abstract 
This paper presents the research of an intelligent local search algorithm for indoor path tracking over 
a low-cost, simple connected wireless sensor network (WSN) in the applications of the tour guidance in 
the theme exhibition, large-scale market and shopping center, etc. This Tabu search path tracking 
algorithm (TSPTA) incorporates the weighted vertex-in-the-intersection method for wireless localization 
and explores three searching steps for path tracking while considering the effects of received signal 
deterioration through a RSSI vs. distance curve which plotted by experimental measurements. Four 
simulated paths and two real paths, an 8-meter-perimeter square path and a 16-meter zigzag-like path, 
have been tracking to evaluate the tracking performance on optimality. The numerical results show that 
TSPTA achieves the better tracking results among the developed techniques. 
Keywords：Wireless Sensor Network (WSN), Localization、Path Tracking、Heuristic/Tabu Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
used, Tabu search is based on intelligent searching to embrace more systematic guidance of adaptive 
memory and learning. In this paper, Tabu search approach is adopted to generate a sound solution within 
allowable computation time. The designed Tabu search algorithm consists of three Tabu steps: exploration, 
intensification, and diversification, which use the same Tabu-search-engine. Figure 1 shows the 
framework of Tabu search algorithm. 
 
Figure 1：The Framework of Tabu search 
Exploration is the basis of the Tabu search algorithm. It explores efficiently and extensively over a 
predefined constraint-related search spaces. The results include the kernel solution set, defined as the best 
solution found within exploration step, and the flipping information of decision variables. These results 
are then used to create the search spaces for intensification and diversification steps. 
Intensification focuses on the search to exploit regions of the space that the search history suggests 
to be promising. On the other hand, diversification undertakes to explore regions that differ from regions 
previously visited. Intensification forces the search to exploit exclusively the areas around the kernel 
solution set while the diversification drives the search to explore areas that are either new or not 
frequently visited. 
 
III. Wireless Localization and Path Tracking 
 
Assume the coordinates of three base stations are known as (Xi, Yi), i = 1, 2 and 3. There are N 
under-estimated coordinates of points in the tracking path remarked as ( )nn yx
 , , n = 1, ..., N. The RSSI 
value of the received wireless signal can be viewed as a function of distance is measured and depicted 
in Figure 2 [7]. There are possible Ji distances for a measured RSSI index to the ith base station. The 
 6 
5.1 Exploration 
5.1.1 Using (3) for slope approaching (lineal/curvilinear tracking) and (4) for radius and angle 
approaching (circular tracking) using C 
m
xx
yy
knnk
knnk →
−
−
−
−
)1(
)1(


 (3) 
0,)()( 20
2
0 →→−+− θryyxx nknk
  (4) 
where, (x0, y0): the center of circle, r: radius and θ: angle  
5.1.2 Set I as the collection of better approaching 
5.1.3 Set D as the collection of poor approaching 
5.2 Intensification 
Resolving (5) and (6) in set I for ),( nn yx   
dyyxx knnkknnk
m
=−+− −−
2
)1(
2
)1( )()(lim
  (5) 
where d: a specified interval 
θ
θ
ryyxx knnkknnk
r
=−+− −−
2
)1(
2
)1(
,
)()(lim
  (6) 
5.3 Diversification 
Resolving (5) and (6) in set D for ),( nn yx   
 
IV. Numerical Experiments 
 
In order to demonstrate the superiority of TSPTA on optimality, four simulated paths, the straight 
lines, the circles, the polynomial and randomized curves are first tracked. The numerical results are 
summarized in Table I. A heuristic-based path tracking algorithm (HPTA) [9] is adopted for 
comparison. 
 
Table I: The Experiemntal Results of Four Simulated Paths 
Lineal Path Tracking 
Scenarios Slope m1=0.2 m2=0.5 m3=2 m4=−1 m5=−2 
Average Error 0.2917m 0.2684m 0.2838m 0.2733m 0.2672m  
Circular Path Tracking 
Scenarios Radius r1=5m r2=10m r3=15m 
Average Error 0.2512m 0.3116m 0.2612m  
Curvilinear Path Tracking 
Scenarios x2/2 x2/3 x3/100 
Average Error 0.2942m 0.2786m 0.2966m  
 8 
  
Figure 5：A 2m×2m Square Path Tracking        Figure 6: 16-meter Zigzag-like Path Tracking 
 
V. Conclusion 
 
In this project, a brand new Tabu-search-based path tracking methodology over wireless signals in 
indoor area is developed. The Tabu search path tracking algorithm (TSPTA) incorporates the weighted 
vertex-in-the-intersection method for localization and considering the effects of received signal 
deterioration by experimental measurements. The numerical results indicate that the TSPTA achieves 
some significant improvements on optimality with the cost of computation time. Hence, how to explore 
an effective and efficient searching approach within Tabu steps is still an interesting research topic in 
the near future. Furthermore, other intelligent local search approaches and mathematical programming 
methodologies are considered to enhance the optimality. 
 
References and Notes 
 
[1] C.-C. Chang, “Application of GPS and life”, Academia Sinica Computing Center, Taiwan, 2006. 
[2] C.-H. Lin, W.-C. Lin, H.-Y. Chang, “Wireless Sensor Networks for Positioning and Path Planning”, 
Proceedings of 2010 Electronic Technology Symposium, pp.450-453, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, June 18, 
2010. 
[3] M-Chen, V. Leung, S. Mao, “Directional Controlled Fusion in Wireless Sensor Networks”, 
ACM/Springer Mobile Networks and Application(MONET), Vol. 14, No. 2, pp. 220-229, April 2009. 
[4] M. Pinedo, Scheduling Theory, Algorithms, and Systems-2nd Edition, Prentice Hall 2002. 
[5] P. B. Luh and D. J. Hoitomt, “Scheduling of Manufacturing Systems Using the Lagrangian 
Relaxation Technique,” IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control, Vol. 38, No. 7, pp. 1066-1079, 1993. 
 10 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價值
(簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性)、是否適合在學術
期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標(請說明，以 100字為限) 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價值(簡
要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性)(以 500字為限) 
 
本計畫研究目的在於設計一微型化被動式感測模組做為 WSN 基礎節點(node)，除了傳輸各式
感測資訊之外，並發展定位機制，以契合醫療應用需求。在室內定位與路徑追蹤研究上，考慮
WSN 訊號衰減情形，研擬低成本無線訊號網路佈建、低計算複雜度與高準確率之啟發式
(HPTA)[2]以及禁忌搜尋(TAPTA)[1]動態路徑追蹤演算法。進行 8米正方形與 16米曲折路徑追
蹤，平均誤差為 11.15/9.9 公分(HPTA)以及 5.74/4.94 公分(TAPTA)。此外，為克服無線訊號易
受金屬(手術器械)與含水性物質(人體組織)影響，分析並導入各式增補技術[3]，以消弭應用端
落差。綜觀本研究主要創新技術有二：無線感測訊號衰減量化模型、啟發式/禁忌搜尋動態路徑
追蹤演算法。已發表論文 3篇，茲表列如下： 
 
[1] W.-C. Lin, H.-Y. Chang, Y.-J. Huang, C.-L. Pan, S.-I. Chu, and R.-S. Chen, “A Tabu Search 
Algorithm for Wireless Localization and Path Tracking,” Proceedings of International Workshop on 
Sensor and Sensor Networks, Kunming, China, July 2011. 
[2] W.-C. Lin, H.-Y. Chang, R.-S. Chen, and C.-C. Lan, “A Heuristic-Based Algorithm for Wireless 
Localization and Path Tracking,” Proceedings of The Third International Conference on Ubiquitous 
and Future Networks, pp. 332-335, Dalian, China, June 2011. 
[3] C.-C. Lan, W.-C. Lin, and C.-Y. Lin, “The Differential Analysis among the Supplementary 
Techniques of RFID,” Proceedings of 2011 Electronic Technology Symposium, CO-01, Kaohsiung 
Taiwan, June 2011. 
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期：100
                                 
年 8 月 23 日 
一、 參加會議經過 
The Third International Conference on Ubiquitous and Future Networks (ICUFN2011)國際會議
由 Korea Information and Communications Society (KICS)主辦，而 IEEE Communications Society 
(ComSoC)則為協辦。本次會議論文主題為 computer networking 以及 mobile ubiquitous 
technologies，包含有 cognitive radios、sensor networks、cooperative communications、future network 
issues 以及 mobile multimedia networking 等各式技術。論文徵求期間來自全球各地共 116 篇論文
投稿，大部分來自亞洲以及泛太平洋地區，少部分則來自歐洲以及美國。所有投稿論文皆經過 2
至 3 位獨立審稿，經審稿後共收錄 74 篇論文集發表。會議內容有 opening/welcome address(由本
次會議共同主席 Prof. Yeong Min Jang 與 Prof. C. K. Toh、Honorary Conference 共同主席 Prof. Bob 
Li 以及中國大連大學校長 Prof. Sheng-Cheng Pan 進行致詞)、2 個 Keynote Speech(由來自 George 
Mason University 的 Prof. Bijan Jabbari 以及來自業界 ETRI 的 Dr. Hojin Lee，報告題目分別為
Direction of Future Networks and Internet 以及 Convergence of Communications and Broadcasting: 
Multi Screen Services)以及 5 sessions(分有 ABC 三組，共 15 個技術 sessions)進行 74 篇接受論文
英文口頭報告。本論文被排定於 Ubiquitous Computing and Networking Session(5A)進行報告，
Session 主席為來自南韓 Yonsei University 的 Prof. Jang-Won Lee，其餘 4 篇報告論文分別為南韓
Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute 的 Dr. Kyu Hyung Kim，題目為 RF-Based 
Guard Light Management System by Using Wireless Sensor Network Technologies、日本 NTT 
DOCOMO 公司的 Dr. Ken Ohta，題目為 Design and Implementation of Privacy-enhanced Operation 
History Middleware for Smartphones、南韓Chung-Ang University的 Dr. Woongsoo Na，題目為Event 
Detection in Composite Context Aware-Service、以及瑞典 KTH Royal Institute of Technology 的 Dr. 
Amos Nungu，題目為 On the Design of Inclusive Ubiquitous Access。 
 
二、 與會心得 
除了聆聽演講以及進行會議報告與交流之外，於大會所精心安排的晚宴中，結識中興大學
電機博士候選人薛景聰先生以及其研究同伴清華大學研究生。此行會後，除與幾位在會議認識
之專家學者進行 e-mail 聯繫之外，將針對提問問題中相關技術不足處進行增補，並強化既有研
究成果，進行國際期刊論文投稿。 
 
計畫編號 NSC99－2221－E－214－069 
計畫名稱 被動式無線感測網路微型模組研製與定位應用(I) 
出國人員姓名 林偉誠 服務機構及職稱 義守大學電機系助理教授 
會議時間 100 年 6 月 15 日至 100 年 6 月 17 日 會議地點 中國大連市 
會議名稱 
(中文) 第三屆無所不在未來網路國際研討會 
(英文) The Third International Conference on Ubiquitous and Future Network 
發表論文題目 
(中文) 無線定位與路徑追蹤之啟發式演算法 
(英文) A Heuristic-Based Algorithm for Wireless Localization and Path Tracking 
http://mail.isu.edu.tw/uwc/webmail/popup.html?nopop[2011/5/4 下午 12:48:01]
Dear Mr. Wei Lin, 
We are pleased to inform that your paper "A Heuristic-Based Algorithm for Wireless Localization and Path Tracking" (number 1569427291) has
been FINALLY accepted for a presentation. Thank you AGAIN for the submission of your paper to ICUFN 2011. Please find enclosed the
referee reports concerning your paper. They can also be obtained from:
http://edas.info/showPaper.php?m=1569427291 
Please take into account the referees' comments when preparing your final manuscript. The camera-ready due is MAY 1st, 2011.  Since the
printed program will be derived from the title, author, and affiliation data you provided at EDAS, please make sure this data is up to date. 
Note that the authors of ALL accepted papers must guarantee that their paper will be presented at the conference. Also please note that AT
LEAST ONE AUTHOR OF EACH ACCEPTED PAPER MUST BE REGISTERED BY MAY 1st, 2011, for the conference in order for that paper
to appear in the proceedings and the IEEE Explore. 
Your camera-ready version can be up to 6 pages (plus 2 more pages with extra page charge). IF YOU HAVE SUBMITTED A 2-PAGE
EXTENDED ABSTRACT, THEN YOUR PAPER IS CONDITIONALLY ACCEPTED AND YOUR CAMERA-READY VERSION SHOULD BE A
FULL PAPER FOR THE FINAL ACCEPTANCE. The detailed information about the camera-ready paper format and the author registration will
be available at the ICUFN 2011 web site (http://www.icufn.org). 
Thanks a lot for your contribution once again, and look forward to seeing you at Dalian, China, in 
June, 2011.
Best regards,
Seong-Ho Jeong, Zhaoyang Zhang, and Hideyuki Uehara,
ICUFN 2011 TPC Co-Chairs
-------------------------------------------
======= Review 1 =======
> *** Summary: Please provide a summary of the paper (the contents and contribution of the paper). (1-3 sentences)
This paper presents an improved RSSI-based localization and path tracking algorithm.
> *** Strengths: What are the most important reasons to accept this paper (e.g., technical depth, novelty, creative solution, importance of topic,
etc.)?
Compared with the active RFID scheme, the accuracy of tracking is improved.
> *** Weaknesses: What are the most important reasons NOT to accept this paper?
This extended abstract omits too much to find the advantage and effectiveness of the proposed scheme. In HPTA algorithm, many variables are
undefined, e.g., j and J in (1), 'base station' in Step 1, J1 to J3 in Step 2, and so on. This paper compares the performance with RFID scheme
but the ultrasound is used in the RFID. The conventional schemes with the same conditions should be compared. In addition, the improvement
from WSN is not much. Other than 16m zigzag path scenario, the performance should be compared with the conventional schemes.
> *** Familiarity: Please assess your familiarity with the subject matter of the paper.
Outside main area of research (1)
> *** Recommendation: Please provide your overall recommendation on the acceptance of the paper. (Final acceptance decisions will also
consider literal responses to the questions below.)
Likely reject (2)
======= Review 2 =======
> *** Summary: Please provide a summary of the paper (the contents and contribution of the paper). (1-3 sentences)
The authors present the research of a low computational complexity, heuristic-based algorithm for indoor path tracking over a low-cost, simple
connected wireless sensor network in the applications of the tour guidance in the theme exhibition, large-scale market and shopping center, etc.
A Heuristic-Based Algorithm for Wireless 
Localization and Path Tracking 
 
Wei-Cheng Lin1, Huai-Yu Chang2, Ching-Chun Lan4 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
I-Shou University 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
byron@isu.edu.tw1, isu9801002m@isu.edu.tw2, 
isu9901002m@isu.edu.tw4 
 
Ruey-Shin Chen3 
Department of Computer Science and Information 
Engineering 
National Quemoy University 
Quemoy, Taiwan 
rueyshin_chen@nqu.edu.tw3 
 
Abstract—This paper presents the research of a low 
computational complexity, heuristic-based algorithm for indoor 
path tracking over a low-cost, simple connected wireless sensor 
network in the applications of the tour guidance in the theme 
exhibition, large-scale market and shopping center, etc. This 
heuristic path tracking algorithm (HPTA) incorporates the 
weighted vertex-in-the-intersection method for localization and 
the intuitive methodologies for path tracking while considering 
the effects of received signal deterioration through a RSSI vs. 
distance curve which plotted by experimental measurements. 
Four simulated paths and one 16-meter-long real path have been 
conducted to evaluate the HPTA performance on optimality. The 
numerical results show that HPTA achieves the best tracking 
result comparing to three other developed techniques. 
Keywords：WSN, Indoor Positioning, Path Tracking, Heuristic, 
RSSI 
I.  MOTIVATION AND BACKGROUND 
Along with the advancement of technology, the positioning 
and path planning play an important role of Area Navigation 
System (ANS) in many large-scale, intelligent indoor areas. 
The time of arrival (TOA) and the received signal strength 
indication (RSSI) are the well implemented techniques in 
triangulation for outdoor/indoor positioning. The GPS, the snap 
tracking (a wireless-assisted GPS) [1], and cricket MIT (an 
ultrasound system) are using TOA while the personal handy-
phone system (PHS) and active/passive RFID system are using 
RSSI techniques [2]. Also owing to the fast development of 
wireless communication technology and the rapid change of 
micro-electronic technology, lots of services have been 
provided such as global communication, real-time image and 
voice processing, and personal positioning and navigation, etc. 
The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a well-known outdoor 
positioning system; however it is restricted in the line-of-sight 
area. Among the variety of wireless technologies, the wireless 
sensor network (WSN) has been gathered most attention for 
indoor positioning. To develop a high precision positioning and 
navigation system using WSN [12] has been become a 
significant research topic in recent years. 
II. WIRELESS TECHNOLOGIES FOR LOCOLIZATION 
Many wireless technologies have been adopted for indoor 
positioning, they are infrared, ultra wide-band (UWB), 
IEEE802.11, ultrasound, radio frequency identification (RFID), 
and WSN. Infrared [5] is classified as non-modulated IR Signal 
and the modulated IR Signal. Due to the signal is vulnerable by 
the environment, infrared is suitable for short range application 
only. UWB [6] is focused on the development of personal 
wireless transmission system, the maximum distance of 
communication generally identified as 10 meter, and rate of 
data transmission between 110 to 480 Mbps. Geometric 
localization field of indoor, with time resolution of UWB 
characteristic, the arrival of time of measurement accuracy can 
be improved, then the degree accuracy of localization standards 
more increased. Ultrasound [7] uses reflective distance method 
to determine the location of object that launched and received 
ultrasonic echo generated by the measured object. According to 
echo and launch wave of the time difference under test to 
calculate the distance. Others use one-way ranging method. 
Ultrasound localization system can be number of transponders 
and a master rangefinder components, the main range finder 
placed on the measured object, in the computer command 
signal to the location under the action of the transponder 
transmitting the same fixed frequency radio signal, the 
transponder in the after receiving a radio signal while 
transmitting ultrasonic range finder to the main signal, be the 
distance between the main range finder and each transponder. 
RFID [8, 9] uses radio frequency non-contact way to exchange 
data bi-directional communication in order to achieve the 
purpose of identification and localization. The technology of 
range is short, generally up to tens of meters. But it get the 
localization information of accuracy is a few milliseconds 
centimeter-level, and a large transmission range, low cost. Due 
to the contactless and non line-of-sight, RFID is expected to 
become the preferable indoor localization technology. Zigbee 
[10] equipments have the stable, cheap, low power 
consumption advantages and the signal is not affected by the 
human body. ZigBee is suitable for long-range application due 
to high data rate (up to 250kbit/s) and long communication 
range from 10 up to 75 meters. 
Currently, the most common localization methods in 
wireless network [11] are the time of arrival (TOA), time 
difference of arrival (TDOA), angle of arrival (AOA), and the 
received signal strength indicator (RSSI). The principle of TOA 
is signal is transmitting by the mobile station to based station 
propagation of electromagnetic waves by the time, and then 
θθ
ryyxx knnkknnk
ryyxx nknk
=−+− −−
→→−+−
2
)1(
2
)1(
0,)()(
)()(lim
2
0
2
0
))))
)
 (4) 
IV. NUMERICAL EXPERIMENTS 
In order to demonstrate the superiority of HPTA on 
optimality, four simulated paths, the straight line, the circle, the 
polynomial curve and the randomized curve, and a real 16-
meter-long zigzag-like path are tracked. The numerical results 
are summarized in Table I. Figure 1 to Figure 4 show the 13 
tracked scenarios of four simulated paths using HPTA. 
Furthermore, a design of 16-meter-long zigzag-like single path 
is to simulate the real guiding application in indoor area as 
shown in figure 8. The techniques of Active RFID [4], 
hybridization of Active RFID and ultrasound [4] and WSN [2] 
have been adopted to track this path in our previous works. The 
numerical results in Table I show that HPTA achieves the 
outstanding performance on average tracking error over three 
other techniques. The tracking results of HPTA and WSN are 
also depicted in Figure 9. 
Table I: Experiment Design and Result 
Lineal Path Tracking 
Scenarios Slope m1=0.2 m2=0.5 m3=2 m4=−1 m5=−2 
Average Error 0.4563m 0.4411m 0.4983m 0.4249m 0.4633m 
 
Circular Path Tracking 
Scenarios Radius r1=5m r2=10m r3=15m 
Average Error 0.4035m 0.4929m 0.5120m 
 
Curvilinear Path Tracking 
Scenarios x2/2 x2/3 x3/100 
Average Error 0.4824m 0.4523m 0.4600m 
 
Randomized Path Tracking 
Scenarios x-cos(x3)-sin(2x2) 10cos(50x) 
Average Error 0.3709m 0.5226m 
 
16m-long Zigzag Path Tracking 
Scenarios Active RFID[4] Hybrid[4] WSN[2] HPTA 
Average Error 1.12m 0.1452m 0.1142m 0.0824m 
 
 
Figure 4：Lineal Tracking 
 
 
Figure 5：Circular Tracking 
 
Figure 6：Curvilineal Tracking 
 
Figure 7：Randomized Path Tracking 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 被動式無線感測網路微型模組研製與定位應用(I)
計畫主持人: 林偉誠
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-214-069- 學門領域: 積體電路及系統設計 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 利用無線訊號實現動態路徑追蹤
(英文) The Implementation of Dynamic Path Tracking Using Wireless Signals
成果歸屬機構
義守大學 發明人
(創作人)
林偉誠,張懷宇,藍清俊
技術說明
(中文) 在一低成本以及低佈建密度之無所不在網路中，藉由感知與模擬各式無線訊號，
如：紅外線(Infrared, IR)、超音波(Ultrasound)、無線個人區域網路
(Wireless Personal Area network, WPAN)所使用之短距通訊電波(如
Bluetooth、Wi-Fi、ZigBee)以及射頻無線識別(RFID)與無線感測網路(WSN)，訊
號衰減情形後進行測距，再輔以低計算複雜度演算法進行即時定位以及動態路徑
追蹤。
(英文) In a low-cost, simple connected ubiquitous network, by sensing and simulating the 
deteriorated wireless signals, such as infrared, ultrasound, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, ZigBee, and 
RFID/WSN, to estimate the distance for triangulation. Furthermore, a low computational 
complexity algorithm is designed for real-time localization and dynamic path tracking 
with the aid of the estimated distances.
產業別 電信業
技術/產品應用範圍 大型購物商場、主題樂園以及博覽會場等等封閉場地/室內即時定位與動態導覽應用
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
1、適用各式無線訊號，如：紅外線、超音波以及無線電波。 
2、結合廣域定位系統(如：GPS)可進行室內外定位與路徑追蹤。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
