452 D.-Y.M. Lin and P.-Y.D. Yang 
acuity [4]. [5] pointed out that with age, people have more difficulties in focusing on 
target information and inhibiting attention to irrelevant material.  
Among the various cognitive deficits, spatial cognition has been identified as one 
of the most significant factors that mediate the older adults’ cognitive function and 
computer-based work [6]. It has also been found that increased age is associated with 
declined human spatial ability, such as spatial perception, spatial organization, spatial 
memory, and mental rotation [7]. However, there exists potential for older adults to 
change this disadvantage as literature has shown that spatial ability can be improved if 
appropriate learning strategies are adopted [8]. 
In light of the increasingly widespread application of the virtual reality/VR 
technology as a training media [9] [10], enhancing older adults’ spatial cognition 
appears more promising. VR is a class of computer technology that enables a 
simulated three-dimensional model where participants can get the sense of presence 
and interact intuitively with the environment and/or objects within the model in a real-
time manner [11]. There is empirical evidence indicating that those who experienced 
a VR interface outperformed those who experienced traditional web pages in terms of 
how oriented they do E-mall shopping [12]. 
Despite the existing literature supportive of the use of VR as training media in 
relation to spatial ability, issues concerning how this computer technology that 
enables Euclidean-based presentation would assist older adults in spatial processing 
still remain unresolved. For example, to what extent could a VR media improve the 
declined spatial cognition for the elderly to the level comparable to that for the young 
counterpart? As compared with other traditional means of spatial presentations such 
as the two-dimensional map, does the VR play a more effective role in enhancing 
processing of spatial information, particularly for the elderly people? If yes, is the 
VR-based training associated with facilitation of spatial processing with respect to a 
specific aspect of spatial abilities? By addressing these issues, the present study was 
aimed at examining the effect of using VR as training media on processing of spatial 
information for the older adults. 
2   Methodology  
2.1   Experimental Design  
The present study employed a 2x3 factorial design where age and training media were 
the two independent variables. Age was a quasi between-subject factor, which 
consisted of two treatment levels, namely, older and young groups. Training media 
was designed as a repeated-measure factor with each subject him/herself as a blocking 
factor to reduce as much individual-difference confounding as possible. The training 
media was defined to consist of three levels of display treatment, including a pure VR 
presentation, a VR plus bird-view map presentation, and a traditional two-dimension 
map presentation.  
2.2   Subjects 
30 subjects, 15 older adults and 15 college students participated in the experiment. 
The older subjects, aged from 65 to 74 years old with a mean of 68.6 and a standard 
454 D.-Y.M. Lin and P.-Y.D. Yang 
move forward and backward, to make right/left turns along the mimic Euclidean 
space of the escape routes. Figure 2 illustrates a snap display of the VR system. The 
VR plus bird-view map media was identical to the VR media except that a bird-view 
map associated with the concurrent navigation location in the escape route was 
provided in the upper-left corner in the VR display, as exhibited in Figure 3. 
Three aspects of spatial processing performance resulting form the three different 
training media were evaluated. Spatial memory assessed how accurately the subject 
could recall the landmark information along each escape route and was operationally 
defined by the hit rate of test questions. Spatial orientation assessed how successfully  
 
 
Fig. 2. Snapshot of the virtual Euclidean display for one escape route exhibited in the pure VR 
training media 
 
Fig. 3. Snapshot of the VR plus bird-view map display for one escape route 
456 D.-Y.M. Lin and P.-Y.D. Yang 
Table 1. Means and (standard deviations) for the three performance measures as a function of 
age groups and training media 
 Older group Young group 
 
 
VR VR + Map Map VR VR + Map Map 
Spatial 
memory 
 
0.36 
(0.15) 
0.56 
(0.14) 
0. 57 
(0.15) 
0.65 
(0.22) 
0.67 
(0.20) 
0.75 
(0.23) 
Spatial 
orientation 
 
0.45 
(0.18) 
0.63 
(0.20) 
0.55 
(0.21) 
0.77 
(0.20) 
0.72 
(0.23) 
0.73 
(0.26) 
Mental 
rotation 
0.43 
(0.18) 
0.45 
(0.18) 
0.43 
(0.18) 
0.63 
(0.31) 
0.62 
(0.35) 
0.62 
(0.34) 
The ANOVA analysis considered subject as a random-effect variable nested within 
the factor of age group, denoted as subject(age). Therefore, the main effect of age 
used subject(age) as the error term, and the main effect of training media and the 
interaction of age x training media used media x subject(age) as the error term.  
Spatial memory. The ANOVA results indicated that the interaction of age x 
training media was not present (F[2,56] = 3.50, p < 0.143); therefore, the two main 
effects of age and training media need to be further examined. The age impact was 
observed, with the older subject reaching a significantly lower retention level than the 
young counterpart concerning how accurately the landmarks information could be 
recalled (0.49 vs. 0.69, F[1,28] = 22.99, p ＜0.0001). The effect of training media was 
also significant (F[2,56] = 5.55, p < 0.006), with the two-dimension map resulting in the 
highest retention hit rate, followed by the VR plus bird-view map, and the VR in a 
descending order. A post-hoc Tukey’s analysis pointed out that the significance was 
mainly derived from the difference of mean hit rates between the two-dimension map 
and the pure VR media (0.66 vs. 0.51, p < 0.005). Nevertheless, the difference 
between the two-dimension map and the VR plus bird-view map (0.66 vs. 0.62), and 
the difference between the VR plus bird-view map and the pure VR (0.62 vs. 0.51) 
were neither significant.   
Spatial orientation. The ANOVA results indicated that the interaction of age x 
training media was not significant (F[2,56] = 1.67, p < 0.20). Although the VR plus 
bird-view map resulted in the best orientation score, followed by the two-dimension 
map and the pure VR media (0.68 vs. 0.64 vs. 0.61), the differences were only due to 
a chance result (F[2,56] = 1.20, p < 0.31). However, the age effect was found 
significant, evidenced by the fact that the older subject was apparently disadvantaged 
as compared with the young counterpart in terms of how successful the orientation 
score was achieved (0.54 vs. 0.74, F[1,28] = 19.36, p < 0.0001). 
Mental rotation. The ANOVA results indicated that the main effect of age was 
significant (F[1,28] = 5.71, p < 0.024) and so was the main effect of training media 
(F[2,56] = 15.00, p < 0.001). Nevertheless, the age x training media interaction was also 
significant (F[2,56] = 3.60, p < 0.034), and the presence of the interaction called for 
further justification of the two main effects. The Tukey’s test revealed when the age 
effect was examined at each media level, the young subject significantly 
458 D.-Y.M. Lin and P.-Y.D. Yang 
older and young subject was only due to a chance result. Considering the rationale, it 
is not surprising that the training media of VR plus bird-view map that combines both 
topological and front-perspective information would result in the most desirable 
spatial-based performance, and at least for the rotation performance for the older 
adults.  
5   Conclusions 
In summary, the present study examined the effect of training older adults on 
processing spatial information by different spatial-related display techniques. The 
findings indicated that the older adults are in general more disadvantaged than their 
young counterpart. Although a traditional two-dimension map help retain the spatial 
memory and help navigate the escape route to the best effects, the older adults still 
have more difficulty in these two spatial tasks than the young adults. However, 
optimistic potential exists as the results suggest that the disadvantage is contingent 
upon the specific components of spatial cognition trained associated with appropriate 
training media. The older adults can benefit from the training in mental rotation so 
that they are capable of navigating as oriented as the young adults if the Euclidean 
display-based VR media is adopted.  
Despite of the promising results, a number of caveats need to be noted. First, the 
training tasks designed in the present study represent only a very short period of 
exposure. A more valid interpretation requires a much longer duration of training 
session. Secondly, the fidelity of the VR interface may also influence the subject’s 
perception towards the simulated Euclidean space and therefore in turn confound the 
performance data. More sophisticated VR interfaces have to be developed for future 
research.  
Acknowledgments. The present study received funding supports from the National 
Science Council, Taiwan under grant NSC95-2221-E-214-041.  
References 
1. Park, D.C.: The Basic Mechanisms Accounting for Age-related Decline in Cognitive 
Function. In: Park, D.C., Schwarz, N. (eds.), Cognitive Aging: A Primer. Psychology 
Press, Philadelphia, pp. 3–21 ( 2000) 
2. Salthouse, T.A.: The Processing-Speed Theory of Adult Age Differences in Cognition. 
Psychological Review 103, 403–428 (1996) 
3. Craik, F.I.M., Byrd, M.: Aging and Cognitive Deficits: The Role of Attentional Resources. 
In: Craik, F.I.M., Trehub, S. (eds.) Aging and Cognitive Processing, pp. 191–211. Plenum 
Press, New York (1982) 
4. Lindenberger, U., Baltes, P.B.: Sensory Functioning and Intelligence in Old Age: A Strong 
Connection. Psychology and Aging 9, 339–355 (1994) 
5. Hasher, L., Stoltzfus, E.R., Zacks, R.T., Rypma, B.: Age and Inhibition. Journal of 
Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition 17, 63–169 (1991) 
6. Kelly, C.L., Charness, N.: Issues in Training Older Adults to Use Computers. Behaviour 
and Information Technology 14, 107–120 (1995) 
表 Y04
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
2007年 9月 12日
報告人姓名 林迪意 服務機構及職稱 義守大學工業工程與管理學系教授
會議時間與地點 2007/7/24-28
中國北京
本會核定補助文號 NSC95-2221-E-214-041數位學習媒體設計
會議名稱 Human Computer Interaction International 2007
發表論文題目 The Use of Virtual Reality to Train Older Adults in Processing of Spatial Information
註：因本人家庭因素，無法出席該項會議，本報告僅附已接受刊登之論文全文，出席心得略。(請參照附件：國
科會函臺會綜二字第 0960043451號說明)
表 Y04
such as the two-dimensional map, does the VR play a more effective role in enhancing processing
of spatial information, particularly for the elderly people? If yes, is the VR-based training associated
with facilitation of spatial processing with respect to a specific aspect of spatial abilities? By
addressing these issues, the present study was aimed at examining the effect of using VR as training
media on processing of spatial information for the older adults.
2 Methodology
2.1 Experimental Design
The present study employed a 2x3 factorial design where age and training media were the two independent variables.
Age was a quasi between-subject factor, which consisted of two treatment levels, namely, older and young groups.
Training media was designed as a repeated-measure factor with each subject him/herself as a blocking factor to reduce
as much individual-difference confounding as possible. The training media was defined to consist of three levels of
display treatment, including a pure VR presentation, a VR plus bird-view map presentation, and a traditional
two-dimension map presentation.
2.2 Subjects
30 subjects, 15 older adults and 15 college students participated in the experiment. The older subjects, aged from 65 to
74 years old with a mean of 68.6 and a standard deviation of 2.85, were recruited from participants of a
computer-learning program administered by a local social welfare institute. All the older subjects were proficient in
basic computer operations and all were Mandarin literate with a senior high school diploma or above. The young
subjects were graduate students in engineering and management of a local university, who were frequent computer
users. The young subjects were aged from 23 to 26 years old with a mean of 24.3 and a standard deviation of 0.9.
2.3 The Training Systems and the Performance Measures
Three training systems associated with the aforementioned media of the VR, the VR plus bird-view map, and the
two-dimension map were developed. Navigating through escape routes in fire alarm emergency was exemplified as the
application domain as it requires successful processing of spatial information. For each training media, fabricated were
four escape routes, which comprised such landmarks as fire extinguishers and signs to safety exits, by using the spatial
layout of a local hospital as a blueprint. The number of the landmarks was designed to fall within the range of 72
items, which have long been identified as the limit of human working memory (Miller, 1956). Figure 1 shows one
example of the four escape routes presented in a two-dimension map, in which the route was exhibited by a solid
orange line with an arrow indicating the subject’s current location, and the fire extinguishers and the signs to the exit
were displayed by a red square and a green circle respectively.
Instead of the map-like presentation, the VR system enabled a simulated, three dimensional view of
the Euclidean scenery of the escape routes. The VR system was developed by 3D Studio Max
(Version 7.0) and EON (Version 3.0). By pressing the designated arrow function keys on the
computer keyboard, the subject was able to move forward and backward, to make right/left turns
along the mimic Euclidean space of the escape routes. Figure 2 illustrates a snap display of the VR
system. The VR plus bird-view map media was identical to the VR media except that a bird-view
map associated with the concurrent navigation location in the escape route was provided in the
upper-left corner in the VR display, as exhibited in Figure 3.
Three aspects of spatial processing performance resulting form the three different training media
were evaluated. Spatial memory assessed how accurately the subject could recall the landmark
information along each escape route and was operationally defined by the hit rate of test questions.
Spatial orientation assessed how successfully the subject could navigate through the trained routes
and was operationally defined the hit rate of questions concerning the correct turns that should be
made for a particular route. Mental rotation assessed how well the subject could orientate
him/herself when the test direction was opposite to that experienced during the training session.
表 Y04
Fig. 3. Snapshot of the VR plus bird-view map display for one escape route
2.4 Procedures
First, each subject of both age groups was briefed with experimental instructions and received two warm-up exercises.
Then the subject proceeded to the training session in which he/she was required to undergo the 12 escape sessions (3
training media x 4 escape routes for each media) that were presented in a random order. During each session, the
subject was asked to memorize the displayed escaping information, including the current location, and the shortest
escape route associated with the location and the landmarks along this particular route. The pilot test of the present
study revealed that for the young age group, a 5-minute, 5-minute, and 1-minute training duration for the VR, the VR
plus bird-view map, and the two-dimension map conditions respectively represent averaged exposure time with which
the subject felt sufficient to complete the task for each route presentation. For the older group, the averaged exposure
durations were 10 minutes, 10 minutes, and 3 minutes for the VR, the VR plus bird-view map, and the two-dimension
map media respectively. A rest period between alternations of the 12 training sessions was provided to each subject,
who determined how long the break he/she would need. After the training session, the subject was then instructed to
complete a paper-and-pencil test in which questions concerning the aforementioned three aspects of spatial performance
had to be answered. The experimenter recorded the time spent by the subject in answering the mental rotation questions
to derive the time adjusting factor for the performance measure of Ri.
3 Results and Analysis
Table 1 lists the descriptive statistics for the three performance measures. Before conducting the ANOVA, the
assumptions of data normality and equal variances were examined. The Shapiro-Wilk test indicated that the data for the
three performance measures under the 6 age and training media combinations follows a normal distribution with all p
values larger than 0.05. The Barlett’s test indicated that the p values for the three performance measures were all larger
than the 5% criterion, suggesting that the data normality shares with an equal variance. Both preliminary confirmations
justify the use of ANOVA for the subsequent analysis.
Table 1. Means and (standard deviations) for the three performance measures as a function of age
groups and training media.
Older group Young group
VR VR + Map Map VR VR + Map Map
Spatial
memory
0.36
(0.15)
0.56
(0.14)
0. 57
(0.15)
0.65
(0.22)
0.67
(0.20)
0.75
(0.23)
Spatial
orientatio
n
0.45
(0.18)
0.63
(0.20)
0.55
(0.21)
0.77
(0.20)
0.72
(0.23)
0.73
(0.26)
表 Y04
of achieving comparable level of performance in mental rotation when the VR-based training
technique was adopted. It appears that training provides the older adults with an optimistic venue
where their spatial abilities can be confidently exercised, but only when appropriate training media
and spatial components are carefully selected.
The contingent training effect may be related to the processing essences underlying the different
cognitive ability components. Specifically, the processing of spatial memory and spatial orientation
requires development of an accurate world-centered cognitive map that comprises an evolving
hierarchy of landmark objects, routes, and topology. Although the VR training media enables a
three-dimension presentation, the display exhibits only an ego-centered view of the scenes of the
navigation routes, which provides little information with respect to the topological knowledge
essential to form the cognitive map. This display characteristic explains why the VR treatment
resulted in the least desirable hit rates in spatial memory and spatial orientation. For those older
adults who are disadvantaged at spatial cognition, the particular difficulty in recalling the landmarks
information and navigating the escape route observed in the experiment is reasonably expected.
Instead of demanding world-centered knowledge, successful processing of mental rotation requires
strengthened display of the front views for each intersection so that correct navigation turns can be
made when the moving orientation is opposite. It is likely that equipped with the Euclidean-based
presentation, the older adults will receive sufficient information needed to make accurate navigation
decisions so that their rotation scores can fare as successful as those for the young counterpart. This
explains why in the experiment, the difference in rotation performance between the older and young
subject was only due to a chance result. Considering the rationale, it is not surprising that the
training media of VR plus bird-view map that combines both topological and front-perspective
information would result in the most desirable spatial-based performance, and at least for the
rotation performance for the older adults.
5 Conclusions
In summary, the present study examined the effect of training older adults on processing spatial information by different
spatial-related display techniques. The findings indicated that the older adults are in general more disadvantaged than
their young counterpart. Although a traditional two-dimension map help retain the spatial memory and help navigate the
escape route to the best effects, the older adults still have more difficulty in these two spatial tasks than the young adults.
However, optimistic potential exists as the results suggest that the disadvantage is contingent upon the specific
components of spatial cognition trained associated with appropriate training media. The older adults can benefit from
the training in mental rotation so that they are capable of navigating as oriented as the young adults if the Euclidean
display-based VR media is adopted.
Despite of the promising results, a number of caveats need to be noted. First, the training tasks
designed in the present study represent only a very short period of exposure. A more valid
interpretation requires a much longer duration of training session. Secondly, the fidelity of the VR
interface may also influence the subject’s perception towards the simulated Euclidean space and
therefore in turn confound the performance data. More sophisticated VR interfaces have to be
developed for future research.
Acknowledgments. The present study received funding supports from the National Science Council, Taiwan under
grant NSC95-2221-E-214-041.
References
1. Park, D.C.: The Basic Mechanisms Accounting for Age-related Decline in Cognitive Function. In: Park,
D.C., Schwarz, N. (eds.), Cognitive Aging: A Primer. Psychology Press, Philadelphia (2000) 3-21
2. Salthouse, T.A.: The Processing-Speed Theory of Adult Age Differences in Cognition. Psychological
Review 103 (1996) 403-428
