一、 中英文摘要 
 
在傳輸媒介共享的無線網路環境研究中，提出許多的傳輸功率控制協定來增
加多重傳輸的數量及減少干擾的影響。在本篇報告中，我們不嘗試提出一個新的
傳輸功率協定，而是研究在各通道都配置一個無線電傳輸配備的多通道無線網路
環境中如何應用傳輸功率控制協定，而在多重跳躍通訊環境，單一無線電傳輸設
備的傳輸端降低傳輸功率將導致較低的網路連結率以及較長的傳輸路徑，另一方
面，較低的傳輸功率能容納更多的傳輸端進行傳輸。因此，同時考慮傳輸路徑長
度及傳輸媒介利用率這兩個參數增加網路無線網路容量顯的更重要，由於此動
機，我們提出了一個可以應用在無線電傳輸介面並且獲得多重連結密度的傳輸功
率控制協定，使得一個多重的網路拓樸擁有漸層式連結度在多個無干擾的通道
中，稱之為漸層式傳輸功率控制協定(GradPC)。在我們提出的漸層式漸層式傳輸
功率控制協定(GradPC)，基本通道被指定預設傳輸功率(無功率控制協定)，而在
其他非基本通道中，我們採用鄰近節點傳輸功率的控制方法來實現漸層連結密
度，在漸層式傳輸功率控制協定(GradPC)配置所有無線電介面傳輸後，我們的協
定執行以下兩個階段：(i)一個變異DSR在基本通道尋找多重跳躍節點的路徑，(ii)
當路徑確定後，無線電傳輸介面依選擇程序來分配合適之通道，由於漸層式傳輸
功率控制協定(GradPC)同時考慮路徑長度和傳輸媒介利用率因素，因此模擬結果
顯示了我們提出的漸層式傳輸功率控制協定(GradPC)的確優於其他功率控制協
定。 
 
 
 
關鍵字：多通道功率控制、網路連結率、路由路徑、空間多樣性 
  無線隨意網路 
 
二、 計畫緣由與研究目的 
 
無線研究人員一直在努力增加網路系統的吞吐量，因為無線通道寬度要求很
高。 在參考論文[10]中，作者從消息理論的角度分析了無線網絡容量限制。對
兩種類型的網絡進行研究：任意和隨機網絡。他們的分析結論是：（1）任意網路
容量（傳輸距離為在單位時間內單位數量）是Θ（Γn），其中n是節點密度，而
（2）隨機網路容量是ΘΓ(nlog n）的。根據這個研究結果，作者在[14]發現到
802.11無線網路容量被限制在這個理論值下。他們觀察到，假設沒有一個最佳化
通訊程序，會使802.11的MAC吞吐量會大幅下降，因為任何節點狀態的鏈接或產
生附近節點太多相撞靜止。在分散式的網路系統中，想要達成最佳的溝通時間，
如果沒有中央節點主控協調，不容易處裡。因此我們必需考慮跨層設計，目前學
者致力研究不同通道控制參數增加網路容量，功率控制方法是其中的一種。 
 
在本篇的報告裡，考慮兩種參數控制，第一種是功率控制，調整功率大小影
響到傳輸的路徑，換句話說減少功率(縮小附近節點的數目)，間接減少通信路徑
的互相干擾，第二種是無線控制，利用多個頻率不重疊的頻道提升網路的流量，
由於在正交頻率媒介，不會受到彼此的干擾，故能夠增加傳輸量。 
 
除了分開研究上述功率和無線頻道因素外，我們還考慮到功率控制機制利
弊，並且提出一個漸進功率控制(GradPC)方法在多個非重疊的無線電頻道(頻道
多樣性)。在基本的通道設定預設功率，其他通道調整功率以控制網路連結密度，
同時考慮路徑長度和傳輸媒介利用率，最後模擬結果顯示出(GradPC)能夠有效提
升網路流量。 
 
三、 文獻探討 
 
(3) Hybrid protocol，結和Proactive Protocol和Reactive Protocol 
優點的演算法。 
 
E. Dynamic Source Routing (DSR) 
Dynamic Source Routing屬於Reactive Protocol一種方法，優點是佔 
用頻寬小， 當要傳送封包時，找不到，才會開始找尋路徑。 
 
四、研究方法 
 
在本篇報告，我們開始討論，從理論上分析調功率控制調整造成IEEE802.11
系統吞吐量影響。由於我們採用N-basis做為功率控制方法[24]，所以理論分析
密切相關N-base。假設連接的數目鄰居(使用基本傳輸功率)是n，運行N-base協
議後，無線傳輸功率會調整成連接到log(n)鄰居數目。  
 
A. Network Model (網路吞吐量數學模型) 
我們研究IEEE802.11分散式協調(DCF)，基於載波偵聽多路存取及避免碰撞
(CSMA/CA)。一個節點傳輸數據之前，它的感觀無線媒介會確認其他附近節點處
於空閒狀態。如果無線媒介是空閒狀態，節點就會開始傳輸，否則將會等待附近
節點傳送結束，資料接收結束後，接收端會發出ACK。假設 是傳輸失敗的機率，
是傳送速率，因此我們導出網路吞吐量公式(1) 
 
 T ) ， ，           
(1) 
現在我們開始討論 傳送失敗機率，一個完整傳輸成功，為收到ACK frame成功
後，因此一個成功的機率公式(2)可以計算為 
 表(b) 
 
B. Impact of Power Control on Interference (電源控制對雜訊影響) 
在此章節中，我們介紹電源控制機制對雜訊影響。假設n個節點均勻放置在一
個220x220平方公尺，通道頻寬為22MHZ，只有考慮single-hop傳輸。實行N-base
後，附近節點數目降低成log(n)。圖(c1)解釋雜訊干擾在執行N-base後減少，顯
示出N-base能夠降低雜訊。圖(c2)是SINR在執行N-base前後。  
 
 
圖(c1) 
  ，                                                   (6) 
 
執行 N-base 後 single-hop 系統吞吐量為 
 
       。                                               
(7) 
 
 
表(d) 
 
D. Performance Evaluation (效能分析) 
表(d)是我們使用在 ns-2 使用的參數。我們使用 IEEE802.11b 11Mbps 無線網 
路模組，RTS/CTS 交換關閉，所有的節點被佈置在 220x220 平方公尺圖(e1)、圖
(e2)，產生 single-hop 和 multi-hop 網路，為了避免邊角節點影響結果，我們
也在附近放了節點和產生網路傳輸，使得模擬結果更接近事實。  
 
 
圖(e1) 
 
圖(f2) 
 
 
圖(f3) 
                            
 
 
 
 
圖(f4) 
 
 
     
定義 為無線 i調整過的功率。當要調整電源時，我們根據 ns-2 設定把功率 
從 1mW 到 100mW，因此，電源調整的單位為 10mW 一個單位。演算法(j1)，演算
法(j2)是描述媒介調整功率。 
 
Default DSR 可以適合 GradPC 在 single channel，然而在 multi-channel 
卻不適合，因為在 multi-channel 選擇到路徑不一定是最短的，較長路徑能夠提
供更多 spatial diversity(多樣分散)，圖(h)解釋為什麼要選擇較長路徑。 
 
圖(h) 
 
路徑 A-C-E 需要 3個節點，但路徑 A-B-C-D-E 使用不同通道進行傳輸，所它
反而能夠提供更高 end-to-end throughput，雖然它需要 5個節點，相對於
Default DSR 選擇最短徑，GradPC 選到的不一定是最短路徑，因為長的路徑也許
能提供更多 spatial reuse。因此在本篇報告，我們提出了一個新的 MDSR 演算
法基於 DSR 改變而成。 
 
在 DSR 演算法，當一個傳送端要傳送封包到接收端，如果在傳送端沒有路徑
在 route cache 裡，傳送端會廣撥 ROUTE REQUSE(RREQ)封包到附近節點，收到
                              演算法(j1) 
 
 
演算法(j2) 
 
 
演算法(k) 
  
圖(L1) 
 
 
 
圖(L2) 
 
 
 圖(o1) 無線網路界面卡, 左:PCI 介面, 右:PCMCIA 介面及轉接卡 
 在進行這個計畫的實作前，我們先在室內進行小規模的測試，我們首先使用
3、5、7台電腦來測量單一 flow 的網路效能，所有無線網路介面卡皆切換到 adhoc
模式，並且利用 routing protocol 來建立一個鍊狀的連線，再使用測量網路效
能的軟體來得到整體網路效能。 
 
 
圖(o2) 實測環境  
 
 
利得到兩台電腦間的網路效能，接下來開始規劃實作此計畫所研究的規模。此
外，我們可以透過驅動程式直接對無線網路介面卡設定其傳送功率，針對不同的
網卡，設定不同的傳送功率，如此就可以得到我們想要的漸進功率控制(GradPC)。 
 
圖(o5) 傳送功率 
 
 先前的模擬環境，我們在 node 數最少的環境(3x3，共 9 node)使用了 25 個
node，在 node 數最多(7x7，共 49 node)的環境中使用多達 81 個 node。這是因
為我們要讓靠近邊緣的 node 與接近中心位置的 node 有相同的環境，因此在最外
圍的地方再額外配置一排 node。可是在我們的實作中，我們現階段無法一次使
用如此大量的電腦，在尋找適當的場地(220m×220m)時也遇到一點困難，再加上
一般桌上型電腦由於體積較大，在配置時所需線材也較多，因此較不適合大量部
屬。於是我們研究使用較小的裝置，如：筆電、迷你型主機、嵌入式系統…等。
其優點是尺寸較小、重量輕，適合大量部屬，也可以放在天花板上。可是缺點是
這些裝置的擴充槽較少，我們最多只能使用兩張無線網路介面卡，無法跟模擬環
境(3 張無線網路介面卡)相符。 
 
七、計畫成果與自評 
 
 在本篇的報告，我們研究了 power 和 channel 參數變化的影響，並且提出
GradPC 演算法處理 route 和 channel selection 的問題。採用 N-base protocol
為我們調整功率規則，然而可能有其他更適合的方法可以取代 N-base protocol。 
並且使用多張媒介卡片在實際上成本費用高，在行動裝置上是很困難配置的，因
此，如何使用 GradPC 在單一個媒介在不同的通道是未來努力的目標。模擬結果
顯示出 GradPC 比其他演算法表現更好，除了減少功率降低干擾因素，考慮 route
和 channel，GradPC 能夠帶來更短 route 和更好 spatial diversity。 
 
 
八、參考文獻 
 
[1] A. Akella, G. Judd, S. Seshan, and P. Steenkiste. Self Management in Chaotic 
Wireless Deployments. In Proc. ACM MobiCom, 2005. 
[2] D. M. Blough, M. Leoncini, G. Resta, and P. Santi. Topology Control with 
Better Radio Models: Implications for Energy and Multi-hop Interference. In 
Proc. ACM MSWiM, 2005. 
[3] D. M. Blough, M. Leoncini, G. Resta, and P. Santi. The k-Neighbors Approach 
to Interference Bounded and Symmetric Topology Control in Ad Hoc Networks. 
IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, 5(9):1267–1282, 2006. 
[4] B. Bollob´as. Random Graphs. Academic Press, Orlando, FL, 1985. 
[5] M. Burkhart, P. Rickenbach, R. Wattenhofer, and A. Zollinger. Does Topology 
Control Reduce Interference? In Proc. ACM MobiHoc, 2004. 
[6] F. Cali, M. Conti, and E. Gregori. Dynamic Tuning of the IEEE 802.11 Protocol 
to Achieve a Theoretical Throughput Limit. IEEE/ACM Transactions on 
Networking, 8(6):785–799, December 2000. 
[7] J. del Prado Pavon and S. Choi. Link Adaptation Strategy for IEEE 802.11 
WLAN via Received Signal Strength Measurement. In Proc. IEEE ICC, 2003. 
[21] R. Ramanathan and R. Rosales-Hain. Topology Control of Multihop Wireless 
Networks using Transmit Power Adjustment. In Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, 2000.. 
[22] P. Santi. Topology Control in Wireless Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks. ACM 
Computing Surveys (CSUR), 37(2):164–194, June, 2005. 
[23] Y.-C. Tseng, S.-L. Wu, C.-Y. Lin, and J.-P. Sheu. A Multi-channel MAC 
Protocol with Power Control for Multi-hop Mobile Ad Hoc Networks. In Proc. 
IEEE Int’l Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS), pages 
419–424, 2001. 
[24] F. Xue and P. R. Kumar. The Number of Neighbors Needed for Connectivity of 
Wireless Networks. Wireless Networks, 10:169–181, 2004. 
[25] X. Yang and N. Vaidya. On Physical Carrier Sensing in Wireless Ad Hoc 
Networks. In Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, April 2006. 
 
 
 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
這次出國參加 PWN 2010，是本人第一次參加大型的國際研討會，也是第一次出國、
坐飛機，很高興也很榮幸有這個機會可以去參加研討會。在研討會的中途休息時間可以
看到有部份學者、研究人員在討論剛剛聽得演講內容，不禁讓人覺得佩服，也期許自己
可以像他們一樣。 
 
 由於是第一次出國，很多事情都不知道該怎麼做，幸好同行者有出國的經驗，很多
事情都請他幫忙處理，在這過程中也瞭解到事先多做一點功課，之後到德國那邊就比較
輕鬆了。像是鐵路系統，德國的鐵路交通非常複雜，光是票種就分很多種，而且部份機
台沒有英文介面，對於這種不懂德文的使用者來說，只能請求路人協助。另外，他們的
發車時間都很準時，事先查好要坐的車輛之發車時間以及所在月台，在轉車的時候非常
方便。而且在我們尋找方向的時候，如果我們的神情表現較為困惑，很多德國人都會主
動跟我們交談詢問是否需要幫忙，更讓我們感到溫馨。 
 
在參與別的 session 時，會去另外注意別人製作簡報的方式，研究如何使用簡單明
瞭的方法讓聽眾很快的吸收、理解。也因為這樣，一直到上台報告的前幾天，我還是一
直在調整自己的簡報，使用一些動畫的方式來強調重點，希望讓聽眾能夠較易瞭解。可
惜的是有部份 session 是同時進行，無法聽完所有的演講，因此只能從演講主題下去挑
選要參加的研討會。 
 
 住在旅館時，旅館有提供無線網路的服務，可是在房間內使用常常會覺得訊號差以
及連線不穩定，有鑑於無線網路的普及化，相信研究設計穩定的無線網路系統是一個重
要的議題，也期許自己未來能夠研究出如何架設出一個高效能、穩定的系統。 
is understandable, at the expense of hardware cost. As the
price of radio modules steadily goes down, the cost of in-
stalling multiple wireless network cards (NICs) has been
considered feasible. In [11], the authors suggest to equip
each node with two radio transceivers, one is ﬁxed on a
certain channel, while the other is made switchable be-
tween the rest of channels. According to the authors, the
strategies of binding network interfaces to radio channels
can be classiﬁed as static, dynamic, and hybrid. Static
binding assigns each interface to a channel permanently
or for a long time period, whereas dynamic binding al-
lows an interface to frequently switch channels from one
to another. Hybrid binding is realized by applying static
binding for some interfaces and dynamic binding for other
interfaces. Frequent switching from channel to channel at
a radio interface may result in undesirable network parti-
tion and the multi-channel hidden-terminal problem. The
multi-channel hidden-terminal problem leads to unneces-
sary collisions, because the channel status cannot be moni-
tored continuously and precisely due to channel switching.
In this paper, we adopt the static binding for all radio in-
terfaces.
Instead of studying the above power and channel fac-
tors separately, we consider the pros and cons of power
control mechanisms, and propose a gradational power con-
trolling (GradPC) method over multiple non-overlapping
wireless radio channels (channel diversity). The concept
of GradPC is illustrated in Fig. 1. Suppose an imaginary
railway system (as shown in Fig. 1(a)) has three passenger
routes (all with the same train speed). The least crowded
route has the shortest waiting queue, but with the most
stops to drop and reload passengers. On the other ex-
treme, the most crowded route has the longest waiting
queue, but wasting the least time to stop for passengers
get-on/oﬀ. Assume that the route-transfer time within the
same stop is negligible. In order for a passenger to plan
a trip from Stop A to Stop F, taking the least crowded
train at Stop A (to avoid long waiting queue), and then
making a transfer at Stop B (transfer time assumed to be
very small) is perhaps the fastest path. In comparison to
our multi-channel networking environment, the three train
routes with diﬀerent congestion levels can be interpreted
as three network topologies produced by diﬀerent degrees
of power control. Diﬀerent power control degrees result in
heterogeneous connectivity status (as shown in Fig. 1(b)).
By using the minimal transmit power Pmin, Channel 3
is the least congested (shortest in-line queue of the rail-
way example), but with longer route. On the other hand,
Channel 1 is the most congested (longest in-line queue),
but route can be much shorter. Also assume the chan-
nel switching delay within the same node is insigniﬁcant.
Consequently, sending packets over Channel 3, and then
making a channel switching at node B is likely to be the
most eﬃcient routing path under such multi-channel envi-
ronment. In reality, the train transfer time in the railway
system may not possibly be made zero, while in wireless
networks, the channel switching delay can be made negli-
gible by equipping each node with multiple radio interfaces
all binding to respective channels. Motivated by this con-
cept, in this paper, we propose to apply power control with
diﬀerent connectivity degrees on radio interfaces. Imagine
several superposed network topologies having gradational
connectivity levels over multiple non-interfering channels,
hence the name, gradational power control (abbreviated as
GradPC), is given.
(a) shows per-
haps the fastest
travel path in our
imaginary railway
system.
(b) plots possibly
the most eﬃcient
packet route over
the multi-channel
network.
Fig. 1. Illustration of GradPC concept.
The rest of this paper is organized as follow. Section II
reviews existing power control techniques and summarizes
our contributions. Section III ﬁrst investigates the impact
of power control on a single-channel single-radio grid net-
work capacity. For single-hop communications, due to the
improved spatial diversity, system throughput after exer-
cising power control is way better than that using default
transmit power. However, for multi-hop traﬃc, the sys-
tem performance is reversed, resulting in a much better
throughput when using the default transmit power (no
power control). This anomalous phenomenon implies that
other parameters should also be factored in besides the spa-
tial diversity, in order to improve the system throughput of
multi-hop traﬃc. This motivates us to propose the GradPC
and its corresponding protocols to address the multi-hop is-
sues in Section IV. We observe that our GradPC works out
the most throughput potential of a multi-channel multi-
radio grid network in terms of multi-hop performance. In
Section V, we apply the GradPC protocol suite in a multi-
channel multi-radio random node topology, so as to further
corroborate the eﬀectiveness of our proposed methodology.
Finally, Section VI draws our conclusion and maps out the
future work.
II. Related Work
A. Power Control Techniques
Traditional power control techniques aim to balance
between energy conservation and network connectivity
[3, 7, 9, 13, 15–18, 20, 21]. In this paper, we are more con-
cerned with network connectivity while keeping the inter-
ference impact low. We adopt the power control mecha-
nism proposed in [21] (the N-base protocol). According to
the authors, [21] was motivated by the classic work in [7]
(Theorem VII.3 in [4]). N-base is a neighbor-based power
control protocol. The main contributions of [21] include
(a) Single-hop traﬃc
(b) Multi-hop traﬃc
Fig. 2. The single-channel single-radio grid network with 9, 25, and
49 nodes respectively.
(a) Single-hop traﬃc (b) Multi-hop traﬃc
Fig. 3. System throughput for (a) single-hop and (b) multi-hop traﬃc
in a single-channel single-radio grid network.
C. In case I < C, a common subset (with size I) of C
channels will be selected so that every node uses the same
channel set to conﬁgure channels for its I radios. We are
interested in improving the system performance with multi-
hop communications. To this end, we ﬁrst propose our
GradPC framework in Section IV-A, and then report the
performance results via simulations in Section IV-B.
A. Gradational Power Control Protocol (GradPC)
The design rationale behind the GradPC protocol is to
impose power gradations on radios equipped at each node,
so as to provide ﬂexibility of balancing the contradicting
factors, such as route length and spatial diversity, for multi-
hop traﬃc performance. In the proposed GradPC frame-
work, a base channel is designated to always use the default
transmit power Ptr (no power control on this radio). In this
way, the route can be kept short, and network connectiv-
ity can be preserved despite performing power reductions
on the other non-base radios. Deﬁne the neighbor table
(set) established over base channel as Nbase, and n denotes
the cardinality of set Nbase (size of neighbor nodes over
base channel). Parameter n can be easily obtained by im-
plementing heart-beat message (e.g., HELLO) exchanging
mechanisms at each node. Consequently, nodes can esti-
mate their respective n values by periodically exchanging
HELLO messages over the base channel. In addition, the
base channel is responsible for ﬁnding packet routes due
to its high network connectivity. In the current GradPC
framework, we adopt a variant of DSR routing mechanism,
which always gathers three possible routes and then ran-
domly chooses one. In contrast to favoring the shortest
route in default DSR, the selected route in our GradPC
protocol may not be the shortest. Generally speaking, the
shortest route comes with longer traveling distance between
hops. In order to support long transmitting distance, high
transmit power should be used. As a result, we observe
that in many cases, default transmit power is necessary
to support the route discovered by default DSR over the
base channel. On the other extreme, we may choose the
longest route, which produces short traveling distance be-
tween hops. In this case, the required power level can be
reduced, but the end-to-end throughput may suﬀer due to
many unnecessary relays. The above observations motivate
us to adapt the DSR protocol. Our objective is to deter-
mine a moderate route path which has mixed short and
long hops. Such route provides us ﬂexibility of schedul-
ing diﬀerent channels and power levels to be used between
hops.
Algorithm 1GradPC procedure: power adaptation policy
for respective radio interface at each node
1: I ← Number of interfaces
2: i← 1 // interface index
3: a1 ← n // n obtained from Algorithm 1
4: while i ≤ I do
5: Pt
i ← P (ai) // power adjustment function for radio i to
connect to ai neighbors
6: Establish neighbor table Ni
7: if ai ≥ e then
8: i = i+ 1
9: ai ← log(ai−1)
10: else
11: i = i+ 1
12: ai ← ai−1
13: end if
14: end while
Algorithm 2 Interface selection procedure: data will be
sent over the selected radio
1: if First hop then
2: i← I // initial interface index
3: else
4: i← fI(Chpre hop − 1)
5: end if
6: while i > 0 do
7: if Next hop found in Ni then
8: Data sent over radio i
9: else
10: i = i− 1
11: end if
12: end while
// next hop unreachable
13: Re-discover route on base channel
For non-base radios, our GradPC adopts the N-base pro-
tocol as the power control mechanism. Speciﬁcally, once n
is obtained from the base channel, the GradPC procedure
reduces power levels gradationally so that the connectivity
degrees for non-base channels become less and less. Af-
ter GradPC procedure is done, the transmit power level
P it that should be used by radio i is obtained. Then each
non-base radio should perform the heart-beat message ex-
changing function to establish the neighbor table (set) Ni
(a) 7 data ﬂows (b) channel l (c) channel 2 (d) channel 3
Fig. 5. Illustration of node and ﬂow distributions, along with the connected network topologies using GradPC over three channels.
since GradPC imposes power gradations on radios, while
Default applies the same default transmit power (without
power reduction) for all radios, GradPC still yields much
better performance than Default, due to higher spatial
reuse factor. Moreover, Default is even worse than both
N-base and BICONN.
Fig. 6. Performance comparison of multi-hop traﬃc in a 50-node
random network topology with 7 ﬂows.
Combining all the previous results from both grid and
random network topologies, we demonstrate that multi-
hop system performance cannot be determined by power
parameter or route length alone. Instead, factors such as
power, channel, and routing strategy all co-dominate the
system performance of multi-hop ﬂows. By seeking trade-
oﬀ between those factors, our proposed GradPC framework
helps open up more system capacity for multi-hop commu-
nications.
TABLE II
Hop count statistics in a 50-node random network topology
GradPC BICONN N-base Default
Total # hops 21 30 26 21
Avg. # hops 3 4.285 3.714 3
VI. Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper, we did a pilot study on the interaction of
two physical parameters: power and channel, with the goal
of further expanding the system throughput of multi-hop
traﬃc in a wireless ad hoc network. We proposed GradPC
and its accompanying route and channel selection proto-
cols. In the current proposal, we adopted the N-base pro-
tocol as our power control mechanism to provide the power
gradations over radios. However, one may customize other
existing power control strategies in place of the N-base pro-
tocol. In addition, though the cost of wireless cards has be-
come quite aﬀordable, in some cases it is diﬃcult to install
multiple radios at a computing device, due to size con-
sideration or hardware support availability. Thus, how to
utilize multiple channels based on the GradPC concept by
practically using a single radio may be worth future investi-
gation. This becomes challenging because, in this case, we
should carefully deal with both the switching issues and
multi-channel hidden-terminal problem, inevitably at the
cost of signiﬁcant control signaling overhead.
References
[1] A. Akella, G. Judd, S. Seshan, and P. Steenkiste. Self Manage-
ment in Chaotic Wireless Deployments. In Proc. ACM Mobi-
Com, 2005.
[2] D. M. Blough, M. Leoncini, G. Resta, and P. Santi. Topology
Control with Better Radio Models: Implications for Energy and
Multi-hop Interference. In Proc. ACM MSWiM, 2005.
[3] D. M. Blough, M. Leoncini, G. Resta, and P. Santi. The k-
Neighbors Approach to Interference Bounded and Symmetric
Topology Control in Ad Hoc Networks. IEEE Transactions on
Mobile Computing, 5(9):1267–1282, 2006.
[4] B. Bolloba´s. Random Graphs. Academic Press, Orlando, FL,
1985.
[5] M. Burkhart, P. Rickenbach, R. Wattenhofer, and A. Zollinger.
Does Topology Control Reduce Interference? In Proc. ACM
MobiHoc, 2004.
[6] X. Guo, S. Roy, and W. S. Conner. Spatial Reuse in Wireless
Ad-hoc Networks. In Proc. IEEE VTC, 2003.
[7] P. Gupta and P. R. Kumar. Critical Power for Asymptotic Con-
nectivity in Wireless Networks. Stochastic Analysis, Control,
Optimization and Applications, 1998.
[8] P. Gupta and P. R. Kumar. The Capacity of Wireless Networks.
IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 46(2), March, 2000.
[9] E. S. Jung and N. H. Vaidya. A Power Control MAC Protocol
for Ad Hoc Networks. In Proc. ACM MobiCom, 2002.
[10] T.-S. Kim, H. Lim, and J. C. Hou. Improving Spatial Reuse
through Tuning Transmit Power, Carrier Sense Threshold, and
Data Rate in Multihop Wireless Networks. In Proc. ACM Mo-
biCom, September 2006.
[11] P. Kyasanur and N. H. Vaidya. Routing and Interface Assign-
ment in Multi-channel Multi-interface Wireless Networks. In
Proc. IEEE WCNC, March 2005.
[12] J. Li, C. Blake, D. S. J. De Couto, H. I. Lee, and R. Morris. Ca-
pacity of Ad Hoc Wireless Networks. In Proc. ACM MobiCom,
July 2001.
[13] N. Li and J. C. Hou. Topology Control in Heterogeneous Wire-
less Networks: Problems and Solutions. In Proc. IEEE INFO-
COM, 2004.
[14] T.-Y. Lin and J. C. Hou. Interplay of Spatial Reuse and SINR-
determined Data Rates in CSMA/CA-based, Multi-hop, Multi-
rate Wireless Networks. In Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, 2007.
[15] J. P. Monks, V. Bharghavan, and W. W. Hwu. A Power Con-
trolled Multiple Access Protocol for Wireless Packet Networks.
In Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, 2001.
[16] A. Muqattash and M. Krunz. Power Controlled Dual Chan-
nel (PCDC) Medium Access Protocol for Wireless Ad Hoc Net-
works. In Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, 2003.
[17] A. Muqattash and M. Krunz. A Single-channel Solution for
Transmission Power Control in Wireless Ad Hoc Networks. In
Proc. ACM MobiHoc, May 2004.
[18] R. Ramanathan and R. Rosales-Hain. Topology Control of Mul-
tihop Wireless Networks using Transmit Power Adjustment. In
Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, 2000.
[19] P. Santi. Topology Control in Wireless Ad Hoc and Sensor Net-
works. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 37(2):164–194, June,
2005.
[20] Y.-C. Tseng, S.-L. Wu, C.-Y. Lin, and J.-P. Sheu. A Multi-
channel MAC Protocol with Power Control for Multi-hop Mo-
bile Ad Hoc Networks. In Proc. IEEE Int’l Conference on Dis-
tributed Computing Systems (ICDCS), pages 419–424, 2001.
[21] F. Xue and P. R. Kumar. The Number of Neighbors Needed for
Connectivity of Wireless Networks. Wireless Networks, 10:169–
181, 2004.
[22] X. Yang and N. Vaidya. On Physical Carrier Sensing in Wireless
Ad Hoc Networks. In Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, April 2006.
97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林亭佑 計畫編號：97-2221-E-009-055-MY2 
計畫名稱：以鏈結層模型解法建立一個高效能無線網狀網路: 參數分析, 演算法設計, 及雛型系統實
作 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
