行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
產品資料管理系統下的零件搜尋與比對 
3D Part Retrieval in Product Data Management System 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 95-2221-E-002-136 
執 行 期 限：95 年 08 月 01 日至 96 年 07 月 31 日 
主 持 人：尤春風   you@ntu.edu.tw   臺灣大學機械系 
 
一、中文摘要 
有鑑於市場上產品推陳出新的快速及
圖檔資料數量倍增的情況下，檢索圖檔愈
來愈不易，且舊有群組技術無法描述現代
多樣化的產品，故需要新的方法來進行圖
檔搜尋。 
本研究利用零件 CAD 圖檔的打光投
影影像，進行 Polar Fourier Transform（PFT）
分析，得到描述此影像的 Generic Fourier 
Descriptor（GFD）資料，以此進行圖檔外
型的描述與比較；透過分析製造特徵與特
徵辨識技術，可以取得圖檔的特徵種類與
特徵輪廓。比較 GFD 與特徵資料，能夠判
斷圖檔的相似性。此法則應用在產品管理
系統中，可以搜尋資料庫中具有特定外型
的零件圖檔，透過分析圖檔的外型與特徵
變更，進行自動版本管理的工作。 
關鍵詞：零件搜尋與比對、網頁、產品資
料庫管理系統 
Abstract 
This investigation presents an effective 
algorithm of searching parts with similar 
shape and manufacturing features from a 
CAD files, identifying parts with similar 
shapes and features, in order to share their 
design and manufacturing data in product 
data management (PDM) systems. Polar 
Fourier Transform (PFT) analysis is applied 
to the shadings image of a part to obtain its 
Generic Fourier Descriptor (GFD) indexes, 
while feature recognition is employed to 
obtain the manufacturing features of a part. 
The similarity of two parts can be defined 
using GFD index and feature information. 
This proposed approach can be applied to 
PDM systems in web-based environment to 
search parts with a particular shape and 
manufacturing feature, and to process the 
automatic version control by analyzing the 
differences in shape and manufacturing 
feature of different version parts. 
Keywords: part retrieval, web-page, product 
data management 
二、緣由與目的 
大型企業普遍使用 CAD 系統超過三
十年以上。中小型企業因為個人電腦科技
進步，效能一日千里，且設備成本快速降
低，近十年來導入 CAD 系統的比例也大幅
提高，幾乎完全取代人工製圖的設計程
序，可說是目前設計與製造流程中最重要
的工具。 
從企業採用 CAD 系統開始，圖檔的管
理與檢索，一直是重要的課題。由於產品
不斷推陳出新，相對的圖檔數量亦快速增
加，尤其今日少量多樣化的產品生產模
式，使得圖檔增加的速度超過以往。普通
的 3C 電子產品，如手機、筆記型電腦，由
數十個至數百個零件所組成，車輛由數萬
零件組成，更甚者如飛機等航空器，其零
1 
 圖 2 利用 20 面體等角取得投影影像 
(2) 製造特徵描述 
要比較兩圖檔所具有特徵的相似程
度，需要針對特徵資料項中具有代表性的
項目進行比對，如圖檔特徵種類、數量、
生長輪廓、基準位置與方向、生長長度等
等。判斷完特徵種類後，接著才能依照特
徵種類進行比對。 
特徵資訊中的特徵輪廓亦採用圖像辨
識法，配合檢驗特徵在零件上的相對位
置，描述與比較兩個物體的特徵。雖然特
徵皆由輪廓與路徑組成，如圖 3 所示，但
是不同種類特徵其生長方式不同，故需先
區分特徵種類再進行比較。 
 
圖 3 特徵生長資料 
對相同種類的特徵先比較其特徵輪
廓，由於特徵輪廓是簡單的 2D 圖形，可以
採用 GFD 進行分析，生長路徑亦可藉此方
式來判斷兩特徵的相似程度。 
特徵對物體的外型具有相當的影響，
故兩個物體具有的特徵種類可作為相似性
比較的指標，但並沒有絕對的關連性，因
為兩個外型完全一樣的物體，可能特徵並
不相同，反之亦然，兩個特徵完全一樣的
物體，可能外型並不相同，但透過特徵辨
識法則解決，可使外型相同的物體具有一
致特徵。 
B. 相似性判斷原則 
完成圖檔的 GFD 與特徵分析後，便可
以進行兩圖檔的相似性評估。 
GFD 描述子代表該影像組成離散元素
的頻譜分佈，低頻項影響物體輪廓整體組
成，高頻項影響細部外型。振幅是此頻率
影響影像的程度，故比較兩 GFD 時僅考慮
中低頻部分料，以接近實際情況，省略過
高的頻率，避免雜訊及小變化影響運算時
間及整體趨勢。 
比較兩個圖形的 GFD 前，首先需將
GFD 進行正常化。相同項目的絕對差值進
行加總後可得到總差異值，計算法則如(1)
式，此值越小則兩 GFD 越接近，相似性可
藉此來衡量，其中 Q 為候選者，T 為比對
目標，N 為 GFD 數列長度。 
2/12/
1
2 ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ ×−= ∑
=
T
i
N
i
T
i
Q
i GFDGFDGFDd       (1) 
實際運作流程如圖 4 所示。 
 
3 
 圖 7 產品管理系統使用者介面  
依照檔案類型，可以在使用者介面
上，選擇依照外型或者特徵，對目標檔案
與資料庫檔案比較其相似程度。若選擇比
較外型影像，則系統會自動進行旋轉圖形
建立投影影像的動作。 
系統接著將取得的實體投影影像，以
PFT 法則分析，計算得到 GFD，並且計算
跟資料庫中記錄的圖檔 GFD 之差異程度，
依相似程度排序列出結果。使用者可以透
過選擇要比對的 GFD 數列長度，來控制比
較的精確度與搜尋時間。 
使用者可以點選圖形，指定從資料庫
中下載相似圖檔的原始檔案進行即時的
3D 檢視。若選擇比對特徵，系統會針對目
標物體尋找特徵種類與數量接近的候選
者，特徵數量從使用者介面設定。 
圖 8 及圖 9 分別為外形搜尋以及特徵
搜尋的結果。 
 
圖 8 零件外形搜尋結果，GFD=100 
 
圖 9 多特徵零件搜尋結果，GFD=100 
使用者可以點選圖形，指定從資料庫
中下載相似圖檔的原始檔案進行即時的
3D 檢視。若選擇比對特徵，系統會針對目
標物體尋找特徵種類與數量接近的候選
者，特徵數量從使用者介面設定。 
本研究驗證GFD外型描述法則可在實
體模型系統上作為外型相似程度判斷及特
徵輪廓的比對分析。 
本研究針對 Spring Solid Part、STEP 
AP203/214、STL 三角形化檔案，採用 GFD
外型描述及分析製造特徵實作一個相似零
件搜尋系統，可在單機環境與網路化環境
下，達成以下成果： 
(1) 給定一個檔案搜尋資料庫中外型或特
徵相似者，並依相似程度排序列出。 
(2) 使用者可將相似圖檔自資料庫中下載
加以應用。 
本研究亦提出相似零件搜尋功能，在
產品管理系統上的應用，並且實作一個具
有相似零件搜尋功能，以圖檔管理為主的
三層式產品管理系統，且具有以下幾點特
徵： 
(1) 分析 CAD 圖檔並搜尋產品資料庫，取
得類似圖檔的相關資訊加以應用。 
(2) 以圖檔為目標，尋找產品資料庫中該圖
檔所相關的資訊。 
5 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-002-136 
計畫名稱 產品資料管理系統下的零件搜尋與比對 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
尤春風, 國立臺灣大學機械系教授 
會議時間地點 2007, June 25-29, Honolulu, Hawaii 
會議名稱 2007 International CAD Conference and Exhibition 
發表論文題目 3D Part Retrieval in Product Data Management System 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
論文於 2006 年 11 月 30 日上傳整篇全稿文章，並以規定的格式撰寫，經審查委員會審查，
於 2007 年 2 日月 28 日核定接受通知，並告知論文修改的重點。如 Paper 被審查委員會核定
可以發表在Computer-Aided Design and Applications journal 時，修正版的文章以 MS DOC 格
式於 2007 年 3月 31 日上傳繳交， 2007 年 5月 15 上傳繳交 Microsoft Power Point (PPT)檔案，
並於 2007 年 6 月 25 日至 29 日於指定的時間在 Honolulu 發表論文。 
 
二、與會心得 
International CAD Conference 是 CAD 領域重要的研討會之一。投稿者需親自報告，
如被接受還可以發表在Computer-Aided Design and Applications journal 上，是一個評價不
錯的研討會。從 1974 年開始，每年皆舉辦，2004 年至 2006 年移至泰國，分別在 Pattaya，
曼谷，Phuket 舉行，2007 年起移至美國舉行。2006 年本人參加過第一次的 CAD 研討會，
本次為第二次參加。2006 年所參加的研討會在我所報告的 section 裹，大部份皆教授親自
上台報告，感覺蠻好的，領域相近，彼此可以互相交流，但反觀今年所分配到的 section，
領域差異極大，大部份的教授無法與會，皆由博士班的研究生參加，參與感或許打折扣。 
本次的 CAD 研討會除了 section 的報告外，每天皆有特定的 Tutorial，由研究有成的
學者主講，計有 Graphics Processors in CAD，Towards CAD and Manufacturing at the 
Nanoscale，Data Mining for Knowledge-Driven Design，Computer-Aided Tolerance Analysis 
for Design，Knowledge Sharing in the Global Product Development Process 等，為時一小時，
 Computer-Aided Design & Applications, Vol. 3, Nos. 1-4, 2007, pp 117-125 
 
117
3D Part Retrieval in Product Data Management System 
Chun-Fong You1  and Tsung-Po Chen2 
 
l National Taiwan University, you@ntu.edu.tw  
2National Taiwan University, r91522606@ntu.edu.tw 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
       This investigation presents an effective algorithm of searching parts with similar shape and 
manufacturing features from a CAD files, identifying parts with similar shapes and features, in order 
to share their design and manufacturing data in product data management (PDM) systems. Polar 
Fourier Transform (PFT) analysis is applied to the shadings image of a part to obtain its Generic 
Fourier Descriptor (GFD) indexes, while feature recognition is employed to obtain the 
manufacturing features of a part. The similarity of two parts can be defined using GFD index and 
feature information. This proposed approach can be applied to PDM systems in web-based 
environment to search parts with a particular shape and manufacturing feature, and to process the 
automatic version control by analyzing the differences in shape and manufacturing feature of 
different version parts. 
 
Keywords: Polar Fourier transform, part search, Web-page, product data management   
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Computer-aided design is an essential element in the modern design and manufacturing fields. Large–scale enterprises 
have utilized CAD system more than 30 years.  Solid modeling system is a representation of a geometric model on the 
CAD system. Boundary representation (B-rep) is the main stream of a solid modeling system, where the representation 
of topologic and geometric entities is un-ambiguous and provides the detail descriptions of the design and 
manufacturing information.    
A product may be mobile phone, portable computer, car, or even an airplane, and may range in quantity from 
several dozens to several millions. Because products change frequently and also the number of drawing files increases 
so quickly, the management and searching of the drawing file has become a significant task since enterprises adopted 
the CAD systems.  
 
A well developed classification schema need to be established in order to manage the large number of drawing 
files. Group technology (GT) is an effective schema for capturing the design and manufacturing attributes of a part in 
an alphanumeric string, called a GT code. However, the GT code representation has some limitations, especially when 
the shape of the part is very complex, meaning that the manufacturing attributes cannot be easily retrieved.  
 
As an increasing number of CAD models become available on the enterprise, designers can re-use existing 
drawing files, and extract design patterns from the web-based environment to modify as new parts in order to shorten 
the design cycle time and increase the competition of their products on the market.  A designed part with a set of 
characteristics is generally given, and considered as a goal part. All parts are searched to retrieve similar designs from a 
drawing database and compare their similarity. 
 
2. LITERATURE REVIEW 
Elison [1] presented some relationships between attribute and application, and also indicated that some desirable 
properties such as function, shape, tolerance, material and manufacturing methods can measure the similarities in a 
different application area.  
Typically the designer determines the appearances and sizes of the parts directly through the CAD system, and 
also determines the function attributes, and the manufacturing process. Therefore, the shape is the most representative 
information on the CAD model. If two parts have a high similarity, then the manufacturing processes, finite element 
analysis, and durability can be shared between them.  
 Computer-Aided Design & Applications, Vol. 3, Nos. 1-4, 2007, pp 117-125 
 
119
3.2 Searching Target 
The proposed searching algorithm should be able to retrieve the STEP (STandard Exchange of Product data model) 
file format from various CAD systems. As well as the STEP AP 203 file format, the proposed method also support the 
triangular mesh and native file (.prt) of the SpringSolid system. SpringSolid system was developed by the Solid Model 
Lab. at National Taiwan University. 
Since STEP AP 203 only knows the information of manifold_solid_brep entity, which is the external shape of the 
part, feature recognition is first parsed and analyzed. Some information of manufacturing features can be obtained for 
further analysis.  
 
3.3 Shape Representation 
The main representation task can be divided into two parts, namely feature and shape. Figure 1 illustrates the analytic 
approach. 
 
Fig. 1:  Analytic approach. 
 
This approach employs 2-D Polar Fourier Transform (PFT). The amplitude of PFT frequency is applied to 
evaluate the Generic Fourier Descriptor (GFD). The GFD index from the PFT algorithm can be adopted to describe the 
image contour.    
Multiple views can be utilized to overcome problems resulting from the rotation effect of an object. Light field 
cameras are placed on 20 vertices of a regular dodecahedron. Twenty different views are obtained, distributed 
uniformly over a 3D model. The 20 views can roughly represent the shape of a 3D model as shown on Fig. 2. Two 
extra projection images from the negative Y axis（0, −1,0）and the negative X axis (−1,0,0) are provided to suit the 
behavior of CAD modeling. The ability to run the rendering shading is the essential capability of the CAD system, 
where Java3D is adopted for the graphic user interface. 
The proposed approach focuses on the representative items of the manufacturing feature, including the feature 
type, feature quantity, approach direction, datum position and growing direction. 
The feature profile and growing direction can be compared for the same type feature. Since the feature profile is 
2D domain, it can use GFD rule to analyze the feature profile. Figure 4 depicts a flow chart of manufacturing feature 
comparison.  
 
 Computer-Aided Design & Applications, Vol. 3, Nos. 1-4, 2007, pp 117-125 
 
121
where N denotes the number of discrete points. 
  
The high-frequency coefficients strongly affect the contour, while the low frequency coefficients have little effects 
on it. The modified Euclidean distance d between their GFDs proposed in this schema is givcn by 
2/12/
1
2 ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ ×−= ∑
=
T
i
N
i
T
i
Q
i GFDGFDGFDd                                                                                         (4) 
 
Fig. 5 illustrates the flow chart of shape comparison.  
 
 
Fig. 5: Flow chart of shape comparison. 
 
 
4. SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION 
The proposed algorithm is written in Java, with Swing for the graphic user interface, Java 3D for displaying 3D graphic 
shape representations and a Microsoft SQL Server database to store the necessary information. 
 
4.1 System Architecture 
To search the similarity part in PDM system [14], a Thick Server-Thin Client is applied for the system architecture, 
which is divided into three sections, web-page interface, server with computational kernel and database, as illustrated 
in Fig. 6. 
A web-page user interface is adopted to access and retrieve the drawing files, view the 3D graphic representations 
and display the sorted results.  
Shape and feature retrieval and evaluation to calculate the GFD index is the kernel of the proposed approach. To 
lower the burden of the user interface, this high heavy calculation is separated from the graphical user interface. After 
reading the STEP file, the proposed approach first executes the feature recognition, and reconstructs and splits the 
advanced face, and finally transfers the triangular mesh to a web-page interface in order to display the 3D object.  
The calculation kernel has two elements, the GFD server manager and the PDM server. The GFD server manager 
can create the corresponding GFD computing server, which can analyze 3D models and calculate the GFD index. The 
tasks of the PDM server include the management of drawing, evaluation of similarity and data transfer. GFD 
calculation is then performed with the image of the shape and feature profile in the GFD Computing server. Hence, the 
value of GFD for the body shape and feature profile can be obtained and passed to the PDM server. The similarity 
evaluation can then be started in PDM server by comparing this GFD index with the GFD index stored on the database. 
For the graphic user interface, it receives the original data file and returns back for displaying the triangular mesh 
and manufacturing feature information, and stores the necessary information to the database.    
The database is employed to store all information on the processes, including the native file, image of shape, 
image of feature profile, manufacturing features, and results of GFD index. Figure 7 illustrates all data tables. 
 
 Computer-Aided Design & Applications, Vol. 3, Nos. 1-4, 2007, pp 117-125 
 
123
4.2 Similarity Searching Program 
The main window of PDM system is shown in Fig. 8. Part files and 3D drawings are managed and displayed in the 
PDM system. To search for a similarity part in this system, a part file must be chosen first, then pressing the part search 
button, and the similarity searching program for this part will be activated. 
 Figure 9 illustrates the graphical user interface for the part search in the PDM system. The Java 3D viewer and 
setting option is shown on the left, while the part information and searching result is shown on the right of the figure. 
The target object is also shown on the left top of the figure. 
After the file is opened, the part has individual handling process. The part can be viewed and rotated through the 
3D visualization. While reading the file, system can parse and recognize all the characteristic features using feature-
recognition parser. The manufacturing features and native file are then transmitted to the database management 
system.       
The shape of manufacturing feature can be chosen for comparison according to the type of file. If the shape image 
is chosen, then the system can automatically rotate the part, and establish the projection image at various view 
directions. After obtaining the projection image, the system then continues to derive the GFD index by the PFT rule, 
and compares the target GFD index with that on the database. Finally, the system sequentially sorts the comparing 
result. The user can click and select part to view or download for reference. 
If a user chooses to compare a manufacturing feature, for example general-boss, then the system can compare the 
feature profile of the general-boss, and sort the comparing results. If the target parts have multiple features, then the 
system can compare the feature sequentially. Target part has three manufacturing features, and the searching result is 
also illustrated in Fig. 10. 
 
 
 
Fig. 8: PDM systems on web-page. 
 Computer-Aided Design & Applications, Vol. 3, Nos. 1-4, 2007, pp 117-125 
 
125
a. Given a target part with characteristic attributes, the method can be applied to search for similar parts in the 
database based on the shape or manufacturing feature, and sort the result in order of similarity.  
b. The user can download the candidate part from the database. 
 
Future work may include the following directions: 
a. The proposed algorithm for the similarity evaluation adopts the PFT method, which is a discrete Fourier transform 
method with a long computation time. Fast Fourier transform can be applied in order to reduce computational time.      
b. The manufacturing feature set is very limited. The range of manufacturing features could be expanded.  
 
6. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
The authors would like to thank the National Science Council of the Republic of China, Taiwan for financially 
supporting the research under Contract No. NSC 95-2221-E-002-136. 
 
7. REFERENCES 
[1]      Elison, A.; Nau, D.;  Regli, S.; William, C.: Feature-based similarity assessment of solid models, Proc ACM Solid 
Modeling Conference, 1997, 297-310. 
[2]     Iyer, N.; Jayanti, S.; Lou, K.; Kalyanaraman, Y.; Ramani, K.: Three-dimensional shape searching: state-of-the 
art review and feature trend, Computer-Aided Design, 37, 2005, 509-530. 
[3]     Berchtold, S.; Keim, D. A.; Kriegel, H-P.: Using extended feature objects for partial similarity retrieval, The 
VLDB Journal, 1997, 333-348.  
[4] Chen, D.-Y.; Tian, X.-P.; Shen, Y.-T.; Ouhyoung, M.: On visual similarity based 3D model retrieval, 
EUROGRAPHICS, 22(3), 2003. 
[5] Zhang, D.; Lu, G.: Content-based shape retrieval using different shape descriptors: A comparative study, In 
Proc. of IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME2001), Tokyo, Japan, August 22-25, 
2001, 317-320. 
[6] Zhang, D.; Lu, G.: Improving retrieval performance of Zernike moment descriptor on affined shapes, In Proc. of 
IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME2002), Lausanne, Switzerland, August 26-29, 1, 
2002, 205-208. 
[7] Zhang, D.; Lu, G.: Shape based image retrieval using generic Fourier descriptors, Signal Processing: Image 
Communication, 17(10), 2002, 825-848. 
[8] Zhang, D.; Lu, G.: A comparative study of curvature scale space and Fourier descriptors, Journal of Visual 
Communication and Image Representation, R 14 (1), 2003, 41-60. 
[9]    Cardone, A.; Gupta, S. K.; Deshmukh, A.; Karmik, M.: Machining feature-based similarity assessment 
algorithms for prismatic machined parts, Computer Aided Design, 38, 2006, 954-972. 
[10]   Funkhouser, T.; Min, P.; Kazhdan, M.; Chen, J.: A search engine for 3D Models, ACM Transactions on 
Graphics, 22(1), 2003, 83-205. 
[11]   Doug, E. R.; Clark, J.; Coney, R.; Mill, F.; Rea, H. J.; Sherlock, A.; Taylor, N. K.: Benchmarking shape 
signatures against human perceptions of geometric similarity, Computer-Aided Design, 37, 2006, 1038-1051. 
[12]   Jayanti, S.; Kalyanaraman, Y.; Iyer, N.; Ramani, K.: Developing an engineering shape benchmark of CAD 
models, Computer Aided Design, 38, 2006, 939-953. 
[13]    Hong, T.; Lee, K.; Kim, S.: Similarity comparison of mechanical parts to reuse existing design, Computer Aided 
Design, 38, 2006, 973-984.  
[14]    You, C. F.; Chao, S. N.; Multilayer architecture in collaborative environment, Concurrent Engineering: Research 
and Applications, 14(4), 2006, 273-281.  
