 II
一、 中文摘要 
本整合型計畫的總體目標為發展小型人形足球機器人，其中包括了人形足球機器人之
機械結構設計製作、驅動電路與伺服控制器的設計製作、障礙物規避、即時角色扮演機制、
視覺伺服系統的設計研發、即時影像處理技術的研發與實現、電子電路板整合設計。上述
所有技術被整合應用在小型人形機器人足球競賽中。小型人形機器人足球競賽是以全自主
式機器人之架構，在結合即時角色扮演後，可執行團隊策略來與對方機器人競爭。藉由進
行比賽以檢驗各子計畫所提技術的優劣性，並將比賽結果作為接下來的設計參考，如此可
兼顧整體性、多功能與成本效益的設計準則，以架構出智慧型足球機器人，在實際比賽時，
能有完美的表現。本整合型計畫參加 RoboCup 2009 人形機器人足球賽打入前四強淘汰賽。
本整合型計畫參加 FIRA RoboWorld Cup 連續三年獲得人形組總冠軍。 
關鍵字：人形足球機器人、障礙物規避、人工智慧、智慧型控制策略、進攻與防守策略。 
 
二、 Abstract 
The goal of this integrated project is to complete the whole system for the kid-size humanoid 
soccer robot. The whole system includes establishment and implementation of the architecture for 
humanoid robots, design and implementation of the driving circuit and servo controller, obstacle 
avoidance, real-time role assignment, visual servo systems, real-time image processing, electronic 
circuit integration, etc. All these techniques, which are mentioned above, will be integrated and 
utilized on the kid-size humanoid robot soccer competition. The kid-size humanoid robot soccer 
game is performed of autonomous robots. After combining offence and defense strategies, these 
robots can finish their missions and play the robot soccer. By competitions, the feasibility and 
superiority of the techniques of each subproject are examined. We entered the quarter final of 
humanoid league of RoboCup 2009. We have won the HuroCup champions of FIRA RoboWorld 
Cup for the years of 2007, 2008, and 2009.  
Keywords: AI, Humanoid Robot, Intelligent Control Strategy, Obstacle Avoidance, Offence and 
Defense Strategy
 1
三、 研究計畫之緣由及目的： 
爲了實現 RoboCup 的夢想，提高人形機器人的智人工慧水平是主要的發展途徑之一，
另外包括機構設計、球隊的行為策略推理與隊員的決策邏輯、物理感測資訊之轉換與應用
技術等，也都是智慧型控制領域的一些主要研究課題。智慧型控制作爲當前控制技術研究
的三個主要發展方向(智慧化、集成化、協調化)之一，已經在國內外學術界引起廣泛重視。
智慧型控制領域的許多研究成果已經直接應用於人形足球機器人中；同時，於世界賽事範
籌內之 RoboCup 研究熱潮也必將對智慧型控制的研究與發展産生重要地推動作用。 
因此，本整合型計畫的總體目標是設計研製整個小型(KidSize)人形機器足球員競賽系
統，其中包括了小型人形機器足球員機械結構之設計製作、盤球及射門機制之研發，驅動
馬達的應用，驅動電路與伺服控制器的設計製作，運動軌跡控制之設計與實現，無線通訊
系統設計製作，即時影像處理技術的研發與實現，即時語音處理之技術的研發與實現，多
個足球機器員間的互動合作之控制策略，以及運用人工智慧技術研究分析足球機器員行為
模式及進攻與防守策略到正式實現 1 對 1、2 對 2 到多對多的小型人形機器足球員賽事上。 
四、 研究方向與進行步驟 
本計畫第三年度之研究重點在於設計及實現四隻機器足球員，並能完成四對四足球競
賽。今年度分成五個研究子題進行之，各子題之研究方法、進行步驟和研究成果分述如下。 
(一) 子計畫一的研究方法與進行步驟 
1. Mechanical Design of Harmonic Drive Based Humanoid Robot 
The mechanical design of the humanoid robot in the third year is constructed as a 25 
degree-of-freedoms mechanical structure where 24 degree-of-freedoms are desired for gait 
pattern motions and one additional degree-of-freedom is desired for synchronous gripping for two 
hands. The skeleton diagram (left-hand-side) and the CAD design (right-hand-side) of the 
proposed 25 degree-of-freedoms robot structure is shown in Fig. 1. It is noted that the mechanical 
structure is designed according to meeting the competition criteria of FIRA HuroCup 2009 [1]. 
There are 4 degree-of-freedoms desired for each arm to perform lifting and throwing motions. At 
the same time, two degree-of-freedoms are designed to provide head camera’s roll and tilt 
motions. In addition, a set of grippers are desired to hold balls and lifting bars. Fig. 2 shows the 
mechanical design of the upper body design. Especially, the weight of end-effecter affects the 
load carry capability of the robot arm. In this study, a tendon based [2] gripping mechanism is 
 3
In addition to the RC servo based upper body design, the remaining degree-of-freedoms of 
the lower body is designed using the harmonic drive gear trains. The purpose of using harmonic 
drive gear trains is to reduce the backlash of the joint as well as to increase the precision and 
rigidity of the lower body so that the walking performance and stability can be improved by the 
advances of introducing the harmonic drive gear trains. The major parts of the lower body consist 
of two legs and a waist part. Each harmonic drive joint module is composed of a harmonic drive 
gear train, a timing belt, two timing pulleys, and a DC motor with an encoder, as shown in Fig. 3. 
The DC motors use Maxon models with the types of 221031 and 220432 [4] to perform different 
torque output setting. The harmonic drive gear trains use the Harmonic Drive models with the 
type of CSF-5-100-1U-F [5]. The encoder uses the conventional 3 PPR (pulses per revolution) 
magnetic type incremental encoders. Based on the 1/300 reduction ratio, the output shaft may 
achieve 0.1 degree position accuracy. 
 
Fig.3. Harmonic drive joint module design 
In this study, fourteen harmonic drive joint modules are aggregated to form the lower body 
structure, where 6 degree-of-freedoms are designed for each leg part; and 2 degree-of-freedoms 
are designed for the waist part. In addition, several metal links and plates with different 
geometries are used to connect these harmonic drive joint modules. Fig. 4 shows the proposed 
 5
2. Motor Control System Design 
In this study, the lower body is actuated using DC motors. Such a design increases the 
difficulties in DC motor controls. Fig. 6 shows the signal flow chart of the proposed closed 
motion control system. The microcontroller uses the Microchip model with the type of 
dsPIC30F2010 [6]. This microcontroller is capable of counting motor encoders via the quadrature 
encoder interface (QEI) and generating pulse width modulation (PWM) to drive the H-bridge 
circuit. At the same time, the universal asynchronous receiver/ transmitter (UART) interface is 
also used to communicate with another motor controller and the gait pattern controller. On the 
other hand, the current of the DC motor is also collected to limit the maximum torque output of 
the motor. In order to control the motor positions, a closed loop proportional–integral–derivative 
(PID) control algorithm is implemented within the microcontroller. The gain parameters of the 
PID control low is desired specifically according to the loading characteristics of each harmonic 
drive joint module. Fig. 7 shows the closed loop PID control block diagram. 
 
Fig. 6. Closed motion control signal flow chart. 
 7
 
In order to achieve the communication packet decoding as well as the closed loop PID 
position control implementation, the microcontroller has to deal with these tasks in a real-time 
consideration so that fast position commands (up to 115200 bps) from UART can be properly 
decoded and the real-time motion control will not be delayed. Consequently, the overall block 
function diagram of the harmonic drive joint module is shown in Fig. 9. 
 
Fig. 9. Block function diagram of harmonic drive joint modules. 
Gait Pattern Control System 
The gait pattern motion control system is the interface between the PC based supervisory 
control system and the motor control modules of harmonic drive joint module and RC servo 
motors. The overall system architecture of an autonomous humanoid robot control system is 
shown in Fig. 10. The gait patterns can be generated offline by using either the automatic gait 
pattern generator or the practical gait training system. These gait patterns are recorded as 
database for further online control of the supervisor controller. The supervisor controller is a 
small size and light weight single board computer so that it can be properly decked on the upper 
body of a small size humanoid robot. In this work, an embedded Vortex86DX tiny CPU module 
from DM&P Electronics Inc. [7] is used for the supervisor controller. The Windows XP acts as 
the operation system to integrate the USB camera module. Therefore, the supervisor controller is 
capable of autonomously capturing and recognizing image frames, decision making, and 
 9
gait pattern motion controller is capable of receiving gait motion commands from the supervisory 
controller. When a gait motion command is received, the gait pattern motion controller updates 
the current gait pattern data memory array when a running gait pattern is completely finished. 
The gait pattern memory array of each gait pattern command consists of the motor ID, sequence 
ID, and angular position. Note that a gait pattern is formed in terms of 1 to 31 sequences. 
3. Implementations, Results and Discussion 
In the third year, a small size biped humanoid robot prototype is produced in our laboratory. 
This humanoid robot is composed 14 harmonic drive joint modules and 11 Robotis RC servo 
motors. This robot is 60 cm in height and 25 cm in width. The weight of robot is 5.3 Kg when the 
control modules are mounted. Fig. 11 shows the photo of this humanoid robot. The camera set, 
control modules are all packed on the robot. 
 
Fig. 11. Photo of the proposed humanoid robot. 
In addition, based on the overall system architecture of Fig. 10, the control modules of 
supervisory controller, ARM 7 based gait pattern motion controller, and dsPIC based DC motor 
controller is also implemented. Fig. 12 shows the PC based supervisory controller, and the 
interfaces of USB, VGA, keyboard, mouse, Ethernet, general purpose input/ output (GPIO) are 
all supported. At the same time, the ARM 7 based gait pattern motion controller is also used in 
this study. Two UART interfaces are used to communicate with the supervisory controller as well 
as harmonic drive joint control modules and RC servo motors. The communication with the 
 11
and the results of training form the gait pattern database. The training program provides a user 
friendly interface for uses to generate gait patterns in feasible and flexible manners, as shown in 
Fig. 15. This approach is beneficial for the sensorless gait control. Note that an alternative 
approach to generate the gait patterns is to develop the kinematics model and the zero moment 
point (ZMP) based approaches, and they are not illustrated in this work. 
 
Fig. 14. Single and combined harmonic drive joint controllers. 
 
Fig. 15. Windows based gait training program. 
Finally, a preliminary straight walk experiment is demonstrated. The demonstration is 
represented via a sequence of video frames, as shown in Fig. 16. This experiment is done via the 
windows based gait training program. The gait pattern data is further transmitted to the ARM 7 
based gait pattern motion controller. Finally, the motors of upper and lower bodies are operated 
 13
 
Fig.17 The system of FLC with an accelerometer and force sensors 
The both data have two dimensions, x and y directions. The ZMP is calculated by (1) and (2), 
and the inclination of the robot is transformed as (3), 
8
5
_ _ _8
1
( )
i
i
x left x width left x x right x
i
i
f
p p l p d p
f
=
=
= + − + +
∑
∑
       (1) 
8
5
_ _ _8
1
( )
i
i
y left y right y y left y
i
i
f
p p p d p
f
=
=
= + + −
∑
∑
            (2) 
_ _ _ _( ) / (( ) / 90),      ,i current i vertical i max i min i i x yΦ = Φ −Φ Φ −Φ =     (3) 
where Φcurrent_i are the current angle value transformed from accelerometer measurement in x and 
y directions, Φvertical_i are the angle value measured in x and y directions when the robot stands 
upright, Φmax_i and Φmin_i are the maximum and minimum angle values in x and y directions when 
the robot lies down on the ground, 90 means the degree from vertical to horizontal, and Φi are the 
actual inclination values of the body in x and y directions. The e and e‧ of ZMP and the inclination 
are written as follows, 
_ _
_ _ _ _
_ _
_ _ _ _
p i i d i
p i p i p previous i
i i d i
i i previous i
e p p
e e e
e
e e e
Φ
Φ Φ Φ
= −
= −
= Φ −Φ
= −


  ,i x y=            (4) 
where ep_previors_i and eΦ_previous_i mean the previous data of the ZMP and the inclination stored in 
NIOS board memories in x and y directions, pi are the current values of ZMP in x and y directions, 
 15
as shown in Fig. 20. We suppose the fuzzy sets and the membership functions in x and y 
directions are the same here to simplify the control system. Third, we present a four inputs and 
one output fuzzy rule table combined by a 3×3 rule table and a 5×5 rule table, as shown in Fig. 21, 
Fig. 22 and Table 1. It shows that the error of inclination is negative, and the positive output in 
the upper left of the rule table is enhanced. Next, we define the singleton output u in the 
defuzzification, and its membership function is shown in Fig. 23. It does not especially need to 
care about the membership functions of fuzzy sets of FI and DFI that we assumed with common 
sense because they will be adjusted by GA. At last, the output u needs to be amplified into an 
appropriate value of motors to control by a scale value like inputs. We put u into the motion table 
as angle changes to adjust motion patterns when the actual ZMP diverges from the desired ZMP 
trajectory. In this case, we suppose that the scale value is ten degrees with respect to the motor. 
That value is a normal case with common sense, and it also needs not to be cared about the 
accuracy because the membership function of the singleton output can be tuned for different case 
by GA. In Fig. 24, the criterion of control input as follows, 
_
[ ]
[ ] [ ] [ 1]motion table
u k
k k k
θ
θ θ θ θ
Δ =
= + − + Δ  (7) 
where θ[k] is the input of our control system, θmotion_table is the original data of motion table, and 
u[k] is the singleton output from FLC. These θs are commands of motor introduced. Therefore, 
aiRobot-2 will walk with the original motion table, and the angle of hip and ankles will be 
modified at any moment by FLC when the actual ZMP and the inclination are not match the 
desired values.  
 
Fig.18 The diagrams of Φy and the fuzzy sets to the inclination angle 
 17
 
Fig. 23 The membership function of u 
 
Fig. 24 Integrating the FLC output into the motion table 
Table 1 The four inputs fuzzy rule table 
 
In order to improve the performance of FLC, we construct a GA network into the control 
system, as shown in Fig. 17. The original walking motion can not adapt any situations even if 
having a FLC. Hence, we use GA to modify the membership function of fuzzy sets, and expect 
 19
complete walking cycle, as the area of two lines bounded shown in Fig. 26. Therefore, the GA 
network will start to work when the robot end walking, and produce the new population for next 
walking. In other words, the GA works on off-line. We use “Roulette wheel selection” to select 
individuals to entry crossover. It makes the individual of high fitness has more probability to be 
selected. Not all individuals can execute crossover, it still has probability to be set as 0.8; and not 
all genes can be transferred when the crossover occurs, it depends on the crossover point. The 
crossover point will affect all chromosomes in one individual and they are the same, as shown in 
Fig.25. We also use the mutation set as 0.001 in our approach to avoid the local minimum. To 
improve the convergence rate of system, we use the elitism to save an individual of the highest 
fitness value and delete an individual of the lowest fitness value. For the reason, there are only six 
individuals participating in every crossover. After ten times of generation, we assume the system 
has more stable than original one and record these values of individuals to compare with the first 
population. 
 
Fig. 25 The diagram of chromosome in an individual 
 
Fig. 26 The error of the two ZMP trajectories 
 21
nine gray pixel values in the 3 3×  structuring element is 
min max 5{ , , }Y Med M M x=         (14) 
where    
min 1 2 3 4{ , , , }M Min M M M M=    (15) 
max 1 2 3 4{ , , , }M Max M M M M=     (16) 
 
Fig. 28 3 3× structuring element 
(2) Circle Detection with RCD Method 
The purpose of this algorithm is to detect the ball in the field of the penalty kick event and 
the bowling event. Here several methods are proposed. The color filter method is used in [19]. Su 
plots the circumscribed rectangular of the object which figured out by ALA for tracking the ball 
[20]. In general, the Hough transform method [21-22] is used to detect the shape of circle in an 
image. Nevertheless, the time complexity of the Hough transform method takes too much, so we 
choose another detective method. The method we choose is the RCD (Randomized Circle 
Detection) [23-24]. This method can take better accuracy and detection speed into account than 
previous. With the result of the LoG, we can obtain the edge set {( , )}V x y= of the image and 
then pick four edge points out randomly in the set V . In the geometry, any four points can form 
four circles as shown in Fig. 29. If the four points which pick out come from the same circle, the 
circle can be taken as a candidate circle. The RCD method is on basis of the above basic theory. 
 
Fig. 29 Four circles formed by any four points 
 23
value of the counter nC  increase one. Calculating the distance and the comparison until all the 
edge points processed is the typical way. But we improve this step to filter the unnecessary 
processing edge points by using the adjustable searching range method which can be shown in 
Fig. 30. We can frame the candidate circle 123C  with a square which has length in 1232 ( )r× + Δ . 
The Δ  is set by a suitable number. If the coordinate of the rest pixel falls in the range of the 
outer square, the pixel process with (24); otherwise, we don’t think that pixel is an edge point on 
the circle. The procedure can reduce the unnecessary computation. Finally, if the value of the 
counter nC  is larger than gT  that is the threshold of the supporting circle, the circle 123C  is 
identified a real circle. We test this method with images in some conditions. The result of this 
algorithm is shown in Fig. 31. The circle found by the RCD method is drawn in the gray color. 
 
Fig. 30 The adjustable searching range used in RCD 
   
(a) The original test image     (b) The result of the RCD method 
Fig. 31 The results of the RCD method 
(三) 子計畫五的研究方法與進行步驟 
1. 人形機器人之機構設計 
在機構設計方面，本計畫設計了一個具有26 個自由度的人形機器人，如圖32 所示。
於手部的設計上，設計一個具有8 個自由度的人型機器人；雙腳的設計上，設計一個具有
 25
避免因資料錯誤而造成馬達與機器人機構上的損傷，所以本計畫在人機介面上規劃設計許
多功能不同的介面，並且把這些介面整合在同一表單上，避免使用者在編輯動作時一直在
介面間切換，導致混亂。其介面主要有四項：編輯介面、特殊操作介面、傳輸介面與感測
器回傳介面。 
4. 人形機器人之行為策略設計 
人形機器人以凌陽科技的 μ′ nsp做為行為策略設控制核心，並搭配CMOS 感測器建構
出人形機器人的影像與策略系統。為了簡化設計流程與縮短機器人策略的開發時間，本計
畫以有限狀態機的架構設計一套行為策略來作為機器人的人工智慧開發平台，如圖34 所
示，直接將行為策略平台架構在 μ′ nsp上，透過CMOS 感測器所取得的影像資訊做為機器
人自主行為策略的主要依據，再利用有限狀態機的策略架構來分析目前所該進行的狀態與
動作，將動作命令傳達給負責運動控制的NIOS II，經由指令解碼、動作讀取與動作執行等
步驟，最後再驅動伺服馬達讓機器人做出策略所決定出的動作。 
 
圖34、有限狀態機制策略架構圖 
單一機器人避障之行為策略 
本計畫利用裝設在機器人身上的六顆紅外線感測器和一顆電子指南針所獲得的資訊，
進而設計出一套運用於人形機器人身上的模糊避障系統架構，機器人具備五個基本的動
作，分別為：直走、左轉30 度、右轉30 度、左平移與右平移，而從六顆紅外線感測器和
一顆電子指南針所獲得的資訊可以知道場地上的障礙物方向、機器人與障礙物之間的距離
和機器人的方位，如圖35 與圖36 所示，並利用這些資訊經過所提出的模糊避障系統處理
之後，將從五個基本的動作中決定一個最適合人形機器人往目的地移動的動作[26-29]。 
 27
主攻擊員、一隻輔助攻擊員與一隻防守員之配置。主攻擊員位於前場爭取進攻際會，輔助
攻擊員位於中場輔助進攻並協助防守，而防守員則位於後場進行防守與干擾敵方攻門。 
(a) 攻擊員之行為策略 
基本上主攻擊員、輔助攻擊員與防守員之策略設計在歸類上都仍屬於攻擊員之行為策
略，主要因為持球權的與否以及屬於進攻方或防守方而在機器人的角色上會產生轉換與差
異。多機器人足球賽在攻擊員之行為策略設計上，主要是以單一機器人罰踢之行為策略作
為延伸性的應用與變化。主要分成找球、追球與射門策略 
(b) 守門員之行為策略 
守門員主要負責固守己方球門與球門區域，本計畫所完成之人形機器人在動作功能上
並沒有設計撲身擋球之動作，因此在防守上，除了當目標球離球門區過近時，守門員會衝
出球門前將目標球朝敵方球門方向踢開以降低敵方進攻的成功率，其他情況皆以平移系列
動作做為阻擋敵方機器人射門路徑為主要目的。主要分成找球、盯球、追球與衝球策略。 
(c) 開球戰術之行為策略 
開球戰術之行為策略為因應多機器人足球賽中己方為開球方時所設計，在己方準備開
球時，首先將主攻擊員放置於球場中央負責開球，輔助攻擊員則放置於主攻擊員左側或右
側靠近邊線處，且距離球場半場線約50 公分的位置，當比賽開始哨音一響時，輔助攻擊員
會以最高速度往球場中線衝過去，而主攻擊員則往輔助攻擊員所在位置之邊線方向以側踢
的方式將球將球送出，當球被踢至靠近邊線處時，正好輔助攻擊員即時迎上，並取得持球
權而轉換角色成為主攻擊員，一抬頭便可馬上確認球門位置，即刻起腳射門，這樣的戰術
設計可大大的提高己方開球時進球得分的機率。 
5. 實驗結果 
人形機器人自主平衡之實驗結果如圖38 所示，其中圖(a)~圖(c)為人形機器人前平衡 
控制之實驗結果； (d)~圖(f)為人形機器人左平衡控制之實驗結果。 
單一機器人避障行為策略之實驗結果如圖39 所示，其中圖(a)~圖(b)為機器人以直走動
作 進入障礙物環境；圖(c)為機器人以左轉動作朝向左前方出口處調整方向；圖(d)~圖(e)
為機 器人以直走動作朝左前方出口處前進；圖(f)為機器人以右轉動作將方向修正回正前方
並離 開次障礙物環境。 
單一機器人循線軌跡追蹤行為策略之實測結果如圖40 所示，其中圖(a)與圖(b)為機器
人進入彎道的循線軌跡追蹤；圖(c)與圖(d)為機器人離開彎道的循線軌跡追蹤；圖(e)為機器
 29
 
圖40、單一機器人循線軌跡追蹤行為策略之實測結果 
 
圖41、多機器人足球賽之開球戰術實測結果 
 
五、參考文獻 
[1] FIRA HuroCup Competition, [Online]. Available: www.fira.net/ 
[2] K.J. Kyriakopoulos, J. Van Riper, A. Zink, H.E. Stephanou, “Kinematic Analysis and Position/Force 
Control of the Anthrobot Dextrous Hand,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Part 
B, Vol. 27, No. 1, pp. 95-104, 1997. 
[3] Robotis RC Servos Specifications, [Online]. Available: www.robotis.com/ 
[4] Maxon Motor Specifications, [Online]. Available: www.maxon.net/ 
[5] Harmonic Drive Gear Train Specifications, [Online]. Available: http://www.harmonicdrive.net/ 
[6] dsPIC Micro Controller Specifications, [Online]. Available: www.microchip.com/ 
[7] DM&P Electronics Inc., [Online]. Available: www.dmp.com.tw/ 
[8] STR710F ARM 7 Specifications, [Online]. Available: http://www.st.com/ 
 31
implementation for obstacle run competition of FIRA Cup,” 2007 CACS International Automatic 
Control Conference, pp.876-881, (Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11), 2007. 
[29] C. C. Wong, C. T. Cheng, K. H. Huang, and Y. T. Yang, “Fuzzy control of humanoid robot for obstacle 
avoidance,” International Journal of Fuzzy Systems, vol. 10, pp. 261-270, 2008. 
[30] C.C. Wong, K.H. Huang, Y.T. Yang, H.M. Chan, Y.Y. Hu, H.C. Chen, C.H. Hung, and Y.W. Lo, 
“Vision-based humanoid soccer robot design for marathon,” 2008 CACS International Automatic 
Control Conference, pp.27-29 (Tainan, Taiwan, Nov.21-23), 2008 
