(iteration)的過程，才會完成交易。 
本研究考慮來自於多個服務個體本身需求與目的的不同所引
發的頻寬交易模式的的複雜度與無線頻譜寶貴資源使用的效
率性與公平性的。 
中文關鍵詞： 動態頻譜共享、誘因相當的計價模式、頻寬交易、最佳化頻
寬量與收費、有限頻寬共享 
英 文 摘 要 ： The wireless spectrum is a limited resource. The 
concepts of cognitive radio and dynamic spectrum 
allocation (DSA) have been considered as a possible 
mechanism to improve the efficiency of bandwidth 
usage and solve the bandwidth deficiency problem. In 
this work, we propose an open interactive dynamic 
bandwidth trading model to enable periodic, short-
term trading of unused bandwidth by licensed spectrum 
owners to sublet their surplus resources to service 
providers that need bandwidth. The model comprises of 
two phases. The goal of the phase one is to find out 
the demand of the intended buyers through multiple 
rounds of learning and revising of the quantity-price 
schedule. Based on the type distribution of the 
intended potential buyers, the optimal quantity-price 
schedule is derived which satisfies the incentive 
compatibility (aka self-selection) and the 
individually rational constraints that maximizes the 
MNO’s profit and assures that the quantity-price 
pair designed for MVNO of a specific type will choose 
the pair that maximizes its utility. We also present 
an algorithm to convert the continuous optimal 
quantity-price schedule to a discrete one so as to 
provide a simple easy-to-read format for MVNOs’ 
selection. If the total number of bandwidth requests 
exceeds the total capacity constraint, a bounded 
knapsack problem is used to resolve for final 
bandwidth allocation. Lastly, an example is provided 
to illustrate the process. 
英文關鍵詞： dynamic spectrum sharing； incentive-compatible 
pricing, bandwidth trading； optimal quantity-price 
schedule； finite bandwidth sharing 
 
2 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價值（簡要敘
述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申
請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
論文發表於  
1.  Yeali S. Sun ,  Ming-Lung Lu, Yu-Chun Pan, and Meng Chang Chen, “Optimal  
Incentive-Compatible Pricing for Dynamic Bandwidth Trading and Alloc ation 
in Efficient Spectrum Management ,”  IEEE GLOBECOM 2011, December 2011.  
 
 
 
 
附件二 
4 
 
knowledge of the type distribution of the intended buyer 
MVNOs and accordingly derives the optimal price schedule 
that satisfies the Incentive Compatibility (IC) (aka self-
selection) and Individually Rational (IR) constraints. The price 
schedule is optimal in terms that the quantity-price pairs are 
determined in such a way that it not only maximizes the 
MNO’s profit, also it assures that each type of the potential 
buyer MVNO will choose the quantity-price pair designed for 
it, and that pair will give the MVNO the maximal utility. To 
our best knowledge, we are the first one to apply non-linear 
optimal pricing strategy for the seller in solving the problem 
of dynamic bandwidth sharing in communication networks 
under incomplete information. The terms of Incentive 
Compatibility and self-selection are used interchangeably in 
the paper. 
In the second phase, we consider the finite capacity 
constraint in bandwidth trading. If the total intended demand 
received after the phase one exceeds the total capacity for sale, 
we resolve the bandwidth contention problem by mapping it to 
a bounded knapsack problem.  
The proposed two-phase trading model simplifies the 
simultaneous design of resource allocation and pricing with the 
finite capacity constraint by an interactive, multi-round process. 
It enables the seller to strategically learn and respond to the 
changes of the intended buyers who will join in a trade with the 
goal of maximizing its own profit while meeting the individual 
buyer’s utility. The remainder of the paper is organized as 
follows. Section II contains a review of related works. In 
Section III, the system model of the buyers (MVNOs) and the 
seller (MNO) is given. In Section IV, we present the derivation 
of the continuous optimal price schedule, and the algorithm to 
convert it to a discrete form to provide a simple easy-to-read 
format for MVNOs’ selection. In Section V, the proposed open 
dynamic interactive bandwidth trading process is described in 
detail. In Section VI, we provide an example to illustrate the 
key designs of the proposed open dynamic bandwidth trading 
process. Section VII contains conclusion. 
II. RELATED WORK 
In the past, a number of system models have been proposed 
for bandwidth allocation and pricing in wireless environments 
in which different combinations of service providers, 
customers, and government regulations are considered and 
various concepts are used such as auction [2][3][4], game 
theory [5][6][7], and economic analysis [8][9]. Among them, 
auction is the most popular approach. For example, in [2], a 
spectrum manager periodically auctions short-term spectrum 
licenses to multiple CDMA network operators with the goal of 
maximizing revenue. Each operator determines its own price 
based on the amount that users are willing to bid. In [3], two 
auction mechanisms are proposed for spectrum sharing by a 
number of users based on the signal to interference-plus-noise 
ratio (SINR) and received power. The authors of [4] introduce 
a spectrum auction framework that formulates conflict-free 
spectrum allocation between users as an optimization problem. 
They also discuss the tradeoffs between the auctioneer’s 
revenue and fairness to buyers under different pricing strategies. 
The main drawback of the auction approach is that it is time-
consuming and it may incur high operating costs. It is also 
known for its unfavorable spectrum utilization [5].  
Different from the auction approach, we propose an open 
periodic short-term bandwidth trading model to address the 
unused bandwidth waste problem. Moreover, in these works, 
spectrum/bandwidth buyers are typically modeled by using 
some simple parameters, e.g., the maximum budget or the 
maximum amount of money that buyers are willing to pay for a 
certain amount of bandwidth. In our work, the behavior of a 
potential buyer is modeled by considering buyer’s preference 
or type, demand curve and utility function. 
Another popular approach uses game theory. In [5], the 
authors consider the problem of spectrum sharing between a 
primary user who is eligible to access a licensed radio spectrum 
and a number of secondary users who have no access rights to 
the licensed spectrum. The problem is formulated as a Cournot 
game in which a pricing function is used to constrain secondary 
users from requesting excess spectrum. It is assumed that the 
total spare spectrum available for allocation is not finite, which 
is rather unrealistic. In [6], the authors consider the same 
problem with multiple primary and secondary users. In [7], a 
framework is developed to model the competition between 
multiple network operators for customers and the available 
spectrum as a non-cooperative game under the regulation of a 
spectrum policy server. The main disadvantage of this 
approach is that there is no real mediator in practice, so the 
players need to propose individual strategies iteratively to 
reach equilibrium; hence, the convergence period is often long. 
There are also approaches that consider the price when 
allocating spectrum to users with different demands. In [8], the 
authors consider how a service provider sets the spectrum price 
to maximize profits and how users decide the amount of 
spectrum to purchase. They apply economic analysis 
techniques in a monopoly market to determine the optimum 
price for the service provider. The approach in [9] uses game 
theory to study demand-responsive pricing for radio resource 
management where multiple access points compete for users. 
In contrast to the above works, we use a non-linear optimal 
price schedule to discriminate between different types of 
MVNOs under incomplete information. We propose an open 
dynamic trading model in which, through each round of 
interaction, the MNO learns more about the distribution of the 
types of the potential buyer MVNOs so to derive the optimal 
price schedule that will maximize its expected return. 
III. SYSTEM MODEL 
There are two kinds of players in the proposed dynamic 
bandwidth trading model: buyers (multiple MVNOs) and the 
seller (the MNO). The MNO only owns one product, i.e., 
surplus bandwidth, with a constant marginal cost c. Based on 
that cost, c, and its knowledge of the distribution of the types of 
buyer MVNOs, the MNO computes and announces an optimal 
price schedule for the MVNOs’ selection that satisfies the self-
selection constraint. The self-selection constraint is that the 
optimal price schedule is so designed that an MVNO based on 
its type will choose the quantity-price pair that maximizes its 
utility. 
A. MVNO: the Buyer 
We assume there are different buying preferences or types 
of MVNOs and use the parameter θ, which is bounded by [θL, 
6 
 
maximizes I(b; θ) for all feasible θ. Then, b*(θ) should satisfy 
the following equation: 
  ULb
b
I
 ,,0));(( * 


. (11) 
To convert b
*(θ) to a non-negative function, let b0(θ) be the 
optimal bandwidth function for all feasible θ. We eliminate 
the negative part of b
0(θ) to obtain the optimal bandwidth 
quantity function b
*(θ). Specifically, b0(θ) is computed by the 
following equation: 
  ULb
b
I
 ,,0));(( 0 


. (12) 
We also have 
  ULbb  ,)},(,0max{)(
0*  . (13) 
B. Optimal Price 
Substituting b
*(θ) for b(θ) in (7), we have 
 UL
L
dxxxb
N
bNR 




,,));(());(()( *** 


  .(14) 
And, the optimal price function T
*(θ) is obtained as follows: 
  ULcbRT  ,),()()(
***  . (15) 
Finally, we have the optimal price schedule S
*
, which 
comprises a number of pairs {<b
*(θ), T*(θ)>}, each 
representing the optimal bandwidth quantity and the 
associated price designed especially for a type θ MVNO. 
C. Discrete Price Schedule 
In practice, the units of bandwidth are usually sold in a 
discrete format. Here, we will convert the continuous optimal 
price schedule to a discrete one. Let the resulting discrete price 
schedule be denoted by 
*
disS  = {  )
~
(),
~
( ** kk Tb  , k = 1 ~ 
K}. K is assumed to be defined by the MNO's policy. Now the 
problem is to determine which K pairs in the continuous 
optimal price schedule should be included in the discrete price 
schedule to maximize the expected return. The K pairs 
correspond to the K types (points) of MVNOs, which in turn 
divide the type distribution range [θL, θU] into K mutually 
exclusive subintervals, denoted by ),[ 11 ba  , ),[ 22 ba  , ..., 
),[ )1()1( ba KK   , ],[ ba KK  , La  1 and UKb   . The 
selection of the set },..,1,
~
{ Kkk   has the property 
));
~
(),
~
(( **
bkkk
TbU  = ));
~
(),
~
(( )1(1
*
1
*
akkk
TbU   , k = 
1 ~ K–1. Thus, the problem can be formulated by solving the 
following mixed integer non-linear optimization problem. 
   


K
k
kkkk ab
FFcbT
1
** )()()
~
()
~
(max   (16) 
s.t.  
 La  1  (17) 
 UKb    (18) 
 1,...,1,1  Kkba kk   (19) 
1...,,1),);
~
(),
~
(());
~
(),
~
(( )1(1
*
1
***   KkTbUTbU ab kkkkkk 
 (20) 
 1~1,
~~
1   Kkkk   (21) 
 Kk
ba kkk
~1,
~
   (22) 
 }0)(|min{
~ *
1   b  (23) 
 Kkb k ~1,)
~
(*   (24) 
In the formulation, we know that when the k
~
’s are 
determined, the ranges of the K intervals are also determined, 
i.e., },...,1),,{[ Kk
ba kk
  based on the constraint 
));
~
(),
~
(( **
bkkk
TbU  = ));
~
(),
~
(( )1(1
*
1
*
akkk
TbU   . Here, 
the boundaries are presented as implicit functions that are 
parts of the constraints. 
Two-phase Open Dynamic Bandwidth Trading 
Process
1
Ground Knowledge: p(b; θ), F(θ), c
MNO
Compute continuous optimal 
price schedule
MVNOs
• Each selects a 
quantity-price pair 
that maximizes its 
utility
• Submit selections 
Allocate bandwidth and 
charge MVNOs subject to 
finite capacity constraint
reject
})
~
(),
~
({ **
)(*
 kk
i
dis TbS 
)(iR
)(* i
S
Compute discrete price
schedule )(* i
disS
Estimate Fi(θ)
Perform Pearson’s Chi-square 
test
pass
Figure 1. Multi-round open dynamic bandwidth trading process 
V. INTERACTIVE TRADING MODEL 
In the previous sections, we focused on how the MNO 
computes the non-linear optimal price schedule based on the 
demand price function of MVNOs, p(b;θ); the marginal cost 
of bandwidth, c; and the type distribution function of the 
MVNO, F(θ). The information is based on the MNO’s 
knowledge or estimation of the potential buyers. If any of the 
estimates are not accurate, the published price schedule may 
not give the maximum expected return. In this section, we 
describe the proposed open interactive dynamic bandwidth 
trading model, which comprises of two phases. The goal of 
phase one is for MNO to find out the distribution of the type 
of the potential buyer MVNOs who still remain in the process. 
It is implemented as a sequence of interaction rounds between 
the MNO and the MVNOs. It is a learning-and-revising 
process that the MNO iteratively re-estimate the type 
distribution of the potential buyer MVNO until the estimated 
one fits the actual one. MVNOs may choose to leave the 
process by not submitting its intended selection. Once left, an 
MVNO cannot re-join the process. The rule guarantees the 
convergence of the process. The maximum number of rounds 
is no more than the initial number of the NUVNOs in the 
process, i.e., one MVNO leaving the process at each round. 
Other than the type distribution, the estimation of the cost of 
the MNO and the demand functions of MVNOs are assumed 
to be accurate. Fig. 1 shows the flowchart of the trading model 
and the interaction between the MNO and the MVNOs. 
The phase one emphasizes continuous learning by the 
MNO so as to discover the true distribution of the types of the 
buyers. Initially, the MNO has the estimate F
(1)(θ) derived 
8 
 
The corresponding discrete price schedule as shown in 
Table III is announced in the second round. 
In the second round, MVNO1 (θ = 0.06), MVNO2 (θ = 
0.37) and MVNO3 (θ = 0.48) still choose the pair <0, 0>, 
which means they do not want to purchase any bandwidth. 
Assume they therefore decide to leave the process. We also 
consider the situation where, for no obvious reason, MVNO7 
(θ = 0.73) decides to leave the process as well in this round. 
Here, we wish to show that the proposed process and the 
associated schemes are able to quickly adapt the estimate of 
the type distribution function according to the MVNOs who 
remain in the process in the computation of the optimal price 
schedule that maximizes the MNO’s expected return. 
TABLE II. THE DISCRETE PRICE SCHEDULE AND THE TYPE SUBINTERVALS IN 
THE SECOND ROUND 
Bandwidth Price 
k
~
 
ak
  
bk
  
0 0.00 0.5477 0.0000 0.5824 
4 78.59 0.6184 0.5824 0.6571 
8 147.16 0.6971 0.6571 0.7287 
11 192.38 0.7609 0.7287 0.7945 
14 232.55 0.8287 0.7945 0.8641 
17 267.89 0.9000 0.8641 1.0000 
After the second round, six MVNOs remain in the process 
of the type values 0.65, 0.67, 0.72, 0.74, 0.75, and 0.92. 
According to the model, the 2
nd
 round submissions are as 
follows: <4, 78.59>, <8, 147.16>, <8, 147.16>, <11, 192.38>, 
<11, 192.38>, and <17, 267.89>.  
After hypothesis testing, the observed data and the 
estimated data are deemed to be from the same distribution. 
The phase one iteration process terminates. 
F. Bandwidth Allocation 
At the end of the first phase, the total amount of bandwidth 
requested by the MVNOs staying in the final round of phase 
one is 59. We assume that the bandwidth capacity B is 30, 
which is less than the total demand. Thus, the knapsack 
problem is formulated to resolve the bandwidth allocation 
problem. The final allocation to the ten MVNOs is as follows: 
<-, -, -, 4 (reject), 8 (accept), 8 (reject), -, 11 (accept), 11 
(accept), 17 (reject)>. That is, only the requests from MVNOs 
of θ = 0.67, 0.74, 0.75 are accepted. The total return for the 
MNO is 231.9, and the total bandwidth sold is 30. 
VII. CONCLUSION 
To address the problems of over-allocation of spectrum 
and inefficient bandwidth usage of the long-term lease 
business model in traditional spectrum allocation, in this paper 
we present an open interactive dynamic bandwidth trading 
model which enables periodic, short-term trading of unused 
bandwidth by licensed spectrum owners to sublet their surplus 
resources to service providers that need bandwidth. The model 
addresses simultaneously both the issues of allocating and 
pricing bandwidth among different demand groups of 
potential buyers by a multi-round interactive process. Through 
a sequence of learning the intended selections from the 
potential buyer MVNO and revising its estimate of the type 
distribution of the buyers, the MNO derives the optimal 
quantity-price schedule that satisfies the incentive 
compatibility (self-selection) and the individually rational 
constraints. The quantity-price schedule is optimal in terms 
that the quantity-price pairs are determined in such a way that 
it not only maximizes the MNO’s profit, also it assures that 
each type of the potential buyer MVNO will choose the 
quantity-price pair designed for it, and that pair will give the 
MVNO the maximal utility.  
We also present an algorithm to convert the continuous 
optimal quantity-price schedule to a discrete one so as to 
provide a simple easy-to-read format for MVNOs’ selection. It 
is also designed to ensure that a specific type of MVNO will 
choose the pair whose corresponding utility value is closest to 
the value in the original function. 
After the iterative process converges and terminates, if the 
total number of bandwidth requests exceeds the total capacity 
constraint, the process proceeds to address the finite capacity 
constraint by solving a bounded knapsack problem for final 
bandwidth allocation. 
To our best knowledge, we are the first one to apply such 
pricing strategy for the seller in solving the problem of 
dynamic bandwidth sharing under incomplete information. 
The proposed scheme can be applied for any trading period. 
REFERENCES 
[1] F. Report and Order, “Federal communication commission std,” FCC 
02-48, February 2002. 
[2] V. Rodriguez, K. Moessner, and R. Tafazolli, “Auction driven dynamic 
spectrum allocation: optimal bidding, pricing and service priorities for 
multi-rate, multi-class CDMA,” IEEE 16th International Symposium on 
Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications (PIMRC 2005), vol. 
3, pp. 1850-1854, September 2005. 
[3] J. Huang, R. A. Berry, and M. L. Honig, “Auction-based spectrum 
sharing,” Mobile Networks and Applications, vol. 11, no. 3, June 2006. 
[4] S. Gandhi, C. Buragohain, L. Cao, H. Zheng, and S. Suri, “A general 
framework for wireless spectrum auctions,” 2nd IEEE International 
Symposium on New Frontiers in Dynamic Spectrum Access Networks 
(DySPAN 2007), pp. 22-33, April 2007. 
[5] D. Niyato and E. Hossain, “A game-theoretic approach to competitive 
spectrum sharing in cognitive radio networks,” IEEE Wireless 
Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC 2007), pp. 16-20, 
March 2007. 
[6] D. Niyato, E. Hossain, and Z. Han, “Dynamics of multiple-seller and 
multiple-buyer spectrum trading in cognitive radio networks: a game-
theoretic modeling approach,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, 
vol. 8, no. 8, pp. 1009-1022, August 2009. 
[7] O. Ileri, D. Samardzija, and N. B. Mandayam, “Demand responsive 
pricing and competitive spectrum allocation via a spectrum server,” First 
IEEE International Symposium on New Frontiers in Dynamic Spectrum 
Access Networks (DySPAN 2005), pp. 194-202, November 2005. 
[8] J. Acharya and R. D. Yates, “Profit maximizing pricing strategies for 
dynamic spectrum allocation,” 41st Annual Conference on Information 
Sciences and Systems (CISS '07), pp. 345-350, March 2007. 
[9] M. Blomgren and J. Hultell, “Demand-responsive pricing in open 
wireless access markets,” IEEE 65th Vehicular Technology Conference 
(VTC2007-Spring), pp. 2990-2995, April 2007. 
[10] A. Sundararajan, “Nonlinear pricing of information goods,” 
Management Science, Vol. 50, No. 12 (Dec., 2004), pp. 1660-1673. 
[11] E. Maskin and J. Riley, “Monopoly with incomplete information,” The 
RAND Journal of Economics, Vol. 15, No. 2, 1984, pp. 171-196. 
[12] K. Black, Business Statistics for Contemporarry Decision Making, 4th 
ed., John Wiley and Sons, Inc, 2006, pp. 456-459. 
[13] R. V. Hogg and E. A. Tanis, Probability and Statistical Inference, 7th ed., 
Pearson Prentice Hall, 2006, pp. 334-337. 
[14] L. Devroye, Non-Uniform Random Variate Generation, New York: 
Springer-Verlag, 1986, pp. 28. 
 
 2 
方式。其中，Professor Kurose presents his latest research on Cyber-Physical Systems 
(CPS) which is a new research area. CPS entails tight integration and coordination of cyber 
and physical resources. It is the nervous system of our modern society as they are increasingly 
being incorporated in virtually all aspects of control and communications. From worldwide 
human-machine interactions to smart infrastructure systems in healthcare, energy, transportation, 
and emergency response, all are enabled and advanced by operations within CPS. Today's CPS 
comprise highly dynamic, interdependent global networks of cyber and cyber-enabled 
infrastructures, telecommunications networks, computing systems, integrated sensors, control 
systems, and embedded processors and physical controllers impacting all aspects of our lives. 
The challenges include exploring basic and applied research in security, trust and resilience of 
systems that are highly complex and typically identified by uncertainty and emergent structures 
and behaviors. These complex CPS are characterized by many factors including their extreme 
scales and data rates, their highly dynamic environmental and system contexts, and their 
complex integrations of cyber and physical controls and resources. Consequently, CPS defenses 
are of paramount importance as events in cyber and physical spaces may have extremely 
significant impacts on system operations. Given the scale, complexity, and sensitivity of the 
targeted systems and their historical reliance on untrustworthy components, CPS defense 
becomes an extremely difficult endeavor requiring a multi-disciplinary research agenda. 
technical session 共分為兩個場地舉辦，我們所發表的論文為無線網路上之傳輸品
質服務，與 network resource allocation 為主。會議中除了以英文與各國學者分享自己
的成果外，透過其他學者的發問與討論，對將來研究及論文發表均有很大的幫助。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
  會議論文集一份(共二本)。 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：孫雅麗 計畫編號：99-2221-E-002-135- 
計畫名稱：感知行動虛擬網路服務的資源分配與頻寬交易模式與頻譜移轉之行動通訊管理 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 1 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
