 可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：95 年 12 月 30 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：支援網路電話之無線網狀網路 
計畫主持人：魏宏宇         
計畫編號： NSC 94－2218－E－002－068－  學門領域： 
技術/創作名稱 無線網狀網路之網路電話允入機制 
發明人/創作人 魏宏宇 
中文：我們發明了一個網路電話允入機制。此網路電話允入機制適
用於 802.11 為基礎之無線網狀網路。允入機制可提供網路電話服
務所需之服務品質。此允入機制為建基於一干擾感知的網路容量模
型。 
 
 
 
技術說明 英文： A VoIP call admission control mechanism is invented 
to provide quality of service in 802.11 WLAN-based wireless 
mesh networks. The call admission control mechanism is 
created upon an interference-aware capacity model for 
wireless mesh networks.  
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
z 網路服務業者 
z 通信系統廠商 
z 無線區域網路產品製造商 
技術特點 
z 提供無線網狀網路之網路語音服務所需之允入機制 
推廣及運用的價值 
z 可運用在無線網狀網路之網路語音服務之推展 
z 提供無線區域網路產品之高附加價值 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
interference-aware capacity model is estimated with VoIP experiments with chain-topology multihop relay 
networks. Two types of capacity model estimations are conducted. We have developed two respective models 
based on these two estimation methods. Then derived VoIP call capacity models are applied to general wireless 
mesh network topology. The corresponding call admission control mechanisms are built based on the 
interference-aware capacity models. We will evaluate the effectiveness of call admission control mechanisms in 
arbitrary mesh network with random VoIP traffic [2]. 
 
Interference-Aware Capacity Model in Wireless Mesh Networks 
An interference model is built for the creation of VoIP call capacity model. When a node is transmitting, all nodes 
within this node's interference range is said to be interfered. In IEEE 802.11 based network, we consider the 
maximum range that an RTS or a CTS message could be correctly received as the interference range. 
 
Now we will construct the interference model for a multihop VoIP call. The interference model in mesh networks 
includes interference state variable s(j) for each node n(j). As a node transmits the packet on the multihop route, 
all nodes within the interference range of the active node will increase their interference state by 1. 
 
In a wireless mesh network, initially, when no VoIP calls are admitted to the network, s(j) is set to 0 for all nodes. 
When a VoIP call is established through a multihop route, there will be several active transmission t(k), in which 
node n(k) is the transmitter. If n(j) is within the interference range of n(k), which implies node n(j) is under the 
interference of this active transmission, then we will add 1 to s(j). An interference state example is illustrated in 
Figure 1. Numbers within the nodes are the interference state of a bi-directional call. The nodes are placed just 
within the transmission range. Interference range and transmission range are shown with the IEEE 802.11 default 
values in NS-2. 
 
Now we will determine the interference state of VoIP call in chain topologies. VoIP calls are placed between two 
end nodes of the chain topology. Number of packet loss and call delay is simulated with NS-2 simulator. The 
R-score is computed to evaluate the call quality (R-score greater than 70 is considered as acceptable quality). The 
IEEE 802.11b MAC is applied with the default 250-meter transmission range, and the 550-meter interference 
range. The WLAN link rate is 11 Mb/s. Mesh nodes are placed 250 away from each other. G.729a codec is 
assumed for VoIP traffic model. 
 
Figure 1: Example of a 5-hop chain topology multihop relay network with interference factor computation. 
 
In the table below, we illustrate the maximum number of calls can be placed in linear topologies with different 
number of hops. The interference states of nodes are computed for these scenarios. We define the maximum s(j) 
along the multihop route as the interference factor fint(m) of an m-hop call. In this interference-aware capacity 
model is applied to estimate capacity values that are dependent on the number of hops of a VoIP call. Similarly, 
the estimation method is applied to 2 Mb/s 802.11 wireless mesh networks, as depicted in Figure 3. 
 
Call Admission Control with Interference Capacity 
After we estimated the maximum interference capacity, we could conduct call admission control based on this 
model. When a VoIP call arrives at the mesh network, the interference state is computed. If all the interference 
state values are under the maximum capacity, this call will be admitted; otherwise, the call is rejected. 
 
We will evaluate the proposed model and the corresponding CAC validity with randomly generated node location 
and randomly selected VoIP node pairs. We examine the two call admission control policies with random VoIP 
node pairs. NS-2 simulations are conducted for the admitted VoIP call pairs and the R-score is computed to 
evaluate the call quality. R-scores of the 2 CAC algorithms for random scenarios are given below. 
 
In addition, we also want to find out whether the two capacity models give tight upper-bounds. A good call 
admission control policy makes sure that quality of all admitted calls is good. Nevertheless, a call admission 
control might admit a limited number of calls and underutilizes the network resource. We examine the two 
policies with relaxed interference capacity bounds. We will admit VoIP calls based on (100+x)% of the 
interference capacity cint. During the experiment, the value of x will be gradually increased until the R-score 
becomes extreme low. 
 
In Figure 4, we show the R-score with capacity bound from tight to loose in the 3 random examples in the 
respective subplots. We found that CAC1 policy performs well. All calls that admitted by CAC1 have good 
R-score. In addition, the capacity bound of CAC1 is a tight upper-bound. The actual allowable interference 
capacity is 110%, 130%, and 110% of the estimated bound respectively. Meanwhile, CAC2 is not adequate for 
the call admission control for wireless mesh VoIP. In one case, the R-score of CAC2 admitted VoIP calls is 0, 
which is caused by severe packet loss and extensive packet delay. As readily observed, the CAC2 actual 
allowable interference capacity is looser than the bound in CAC1. Therefore, the hop-count independent 
interference capacity model fits better, and the corresponding admission control policy is more suitable for VoIP 
call in wireless mesh networks. 
 
Figure 4: Experiments with VoIP CAC schemes 
 
As a result, we will apply the constant call capacity model for future VoIP call admission control (i.e. CAC1). 
Moreover, we also investigated the percentage of incorrect decisions of the proposed call admission control 
based on simply counting number of calls will not work in wireless mesh environment. In addition, the variation 
in call quality related statistics could be observed. Call admission control based on short-term delay or packet loss 
statistics may result in unstable system performance. 
 
 
Conclusion 
In this work, we consider the call admission decision for VoIP calls for wireless mesh network. The goal of CAC 
decision is to maintain the R-score of the existing calls while maximizing the number of admitted call. We 
propose an Interference capacity model for a mesh network, based on which, we define two CAC schemes. We 
find our proposed CAC provides a tight upper bound and attains less than 20% incorrect decision for various 
sizes of the arbitrary topology and different rate (2Mb/s and 11Mb/s). 
 
Above all, we have created an interference-aware VoIP call capacity model for wireless mesh networks in this 
project. The call admission control mechanism for IEEE 802.11 mesh networks is also proposed. To evaluate the 
system performance of the call admission control mechanism, we have conducted several simulation experiments 
on network simulator-2 platform. The ns-2 simulation module for VoIP R-score is implemented. In addition, we 
also implemented the proposed call admission control mechanism as an ns-2 simulation module. The call 
admission control mechanism has been demonstrated with its effectiveness in various mesh network scenarios.  
 
References 
[1] R.G. Cole and J.H. Rosenbluth, "Voice Over IP Performance Monitoring," ACM SIGCOMM Computer 
Communication Review, volume 31, number 2, April 2001. 
[2] Hung-Yu Wei,KyungTae Kim, Anand Kashyap, and Samrat Ganguly, “On Admission of VoIP Calls over 
Wireless Mesh Network,” IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC 2006), Istanbul, Turkey, Jun. 
2006 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
ICC (International Conference on Communications) is one of the most important 
conferences in the area of communication research. This year ICC is held in Istanbul, Turkey 
from June 11th to June 16th. The research result from this NSC project is given in the paper 
entitled “On Admission of VoIP Calls over Wireless Mesh Network”. The paper was arranged 
to be presented in an oral session within the Next-Generation Mobile Networks Symposium. 
The oral session was consisted of five papers related to wireless mesh networks. The paper was 
presented by Professor Hung-Yu Wei on June 14th . There were around 30 ~ 40 researchers, 
which is more than the average attendance number in this conference, from academia and 
industry attending. There were several interesting discussions and comments during the paper 
Q&A. After the session, one professor from South Africa and I also had in-depth discussion 
and exchanged further details in the related research issues. 
 
