 I
中文摘要 
近年來，由於微奈米製程技術的快速發展，我們已經能夠在平面光波電路
上製作複雜的圖形。如把先進的製程技術與日新月異的電腦科技相結合，我們將
能在波導上設計並製作複雜的折射率分佈，以達到全像術的功能。我們利用電腦
平面全像術(CGPH)實現了一種全新的積體光學元件：可變分光率的二對二多模干
涉耦合器。傳統上，我們必須改變元件的尺寸以達成不同的分光率；而這種新的
元件，是在固定大小的元件上，利用表面蝕刻的全像圖形來產生任意的分光率。
這將使得此類元件與其他積體光學元件的結合更加容易。這種電腦計算出的全像
圖形將多模結構中的模態混合並轉換以產生各種輸出。 
 
首先，我們使用廣角光束行進法 wide-angle beam propagation method 
（WA-BPM）進行數值模擬來驗證理論的計算，此一數值模擬結果證實了我們的矩
陣理論。我們並證實了這些新穎元件保有傳統多模干涉耦合器在製程上有較大容
忍度跟大頻寬等優點。而在元件的應用上，這些耦合器可用來準確調整波導與微
光學共振腔之間的耦合度。傳統上，與微光學共振腔的耦合需要非常高的製程精
確度，利用這些元件，我們將可減少對製程設備的依賴。 
 
在實驗上，我們在 silicon-on-insulator (SOI) 平台上，首次製作出固
定大小且可變分光率的分光器。此元件之製程需要數次的微影步驟來製作並對準
多模光波導與多模波導全像圖形。首先，我們利用電子束微影(e-beam 
lithogrphy)與反應性離子蝕刻(reactive ion etching)在晶片上做出定位圖
形，然後用電子束微影將多模波導全像圖形對準並微影在晶片上，再以反應性
離子蝕刻將其蝕刻出來，最後，利用光罩定位機將多模光波導微影於晶
片，並以同樣的反應性離子蝕刻完成製作。 
 
元件量測的結果發現我們可利用全像圖形的深度與長度來改變固定
大小多模干涉耦合器的分光率，此結果與我們的數值模擬與理論計算相
符。我們並模擬了實際元件上的折射率分佈與實際量測結果相比較，亦得
到非常好的吻合。 
 
在這個研究中，我們首次做出了一種全新的積體光學元件，利用電
腦平面全像術來改變固定大小的 SOI 二對二多模干涉耦合器的分光率。這些元件
使我們能在不改變元件大小狀況下，自由的選擇所需的分光率。另外，透過對模
態耦合理論的研究，我們亦發現了利用長周期光柵陣列來對光信號進行
Hadamard transform 的新元件。  
 1
報告內容 
（一）前言、研究目的、文獻探討 
Integrated optical waveguide components are important building blocks in 
modern communication and computing infrastructures [1]. In communications, optical 
beam splitters, filters, modulators, and other integrated optical devices are essential 
components in the optical communications network. In digital computing systems, the 
continuing feature size reduction in electronic chips according to Moore’s Law leads 
to faster devices and also drives the need for optical interconnection systems [2]. 
Moreover, the large bandwidth (speed) of optical signal processors over electronic 
processors could be the key technological advantage in pushing forward the future 
generation high-speed digital processor technologies. Traditionally, these integrated 
optical devices are composed of simple waveguide components such as Y-branches, 
couplers, and single-mode waveguides, which put a limitation on the ability to 
achieve more complex or flexible architectures in designing photonic components and 
in the integration of planar light-wave circuits (PLCs).   
The main advantage of optics is its massive parallelism (connectivity). With 
parallelism, it is possible to complete complicated calculations/transformations in a 
single operation. For example, in image processing, an entire image can be processed 
all at once using optical systems, instead of sequential processing of each pixel. This 
advantage is well known and has been explored mainly in the spatial domain signal 
processing, leading to the development of holography, spatial light modulators, 
optical neural networks, and many other interesting applications in wave manipulation 
[3,4]. Traditionally, these operations are performed using free space optics [5,6], 
which involves bulky optics in contrast to the small guided wave components used in 
integrated optics. As a result, parallelism is rarely utilized in guided wave applications. 
Until recently, little effort has gone into spatial domain signal manipulation in guided 
wave structures [7,8]. In this project, we consider spatial domain signal manipulation 
in guided wave structures tailored to user designed functionalities, which brings a new 
dimension to the existing integrated optic platform and takes advantage of the 
parallelism in optics. 
Optical interconnects based on thin computer-generated holograms (CGHs) 
using free-space optics have been shown to be a highly versatile technology for 
guiding optical signals [4]. However, these systems suffer from low diffraction 
efficiency in comparison with optically recorded volume hologram. The recent 
advances of micro and nano fabrication technologies have allowed the realization of 
highly complex patterns on PLCs. Coupling the new fabrication capability with the 
rapid advance of computing power, it is now possible to calculate and fabricate a 
 3
（二）研究方法 
In this project, we mainly focus our investigation on the application of computer 
generated planar holograms (CGPH) on multimode waveguides. We propose to study 
the calculation, optimization, and various spectral and temporal characteristics of the 
proposed devices. The approach in this research will be a combination of theoretical 
calculation, numerical simulation, and experimental investigation. The theoretical 
calculation and numerical simulation are important in designing appropriate CGPHs 
for different applications, and in investigating the spectral and temporal responses of 
these devices for high-speed applications. The experimental investigation will involve 
fabrication of the designed devices and characterization to verify the theoretical 
calculation. 
（a）理論基礎 
In the formulation of theoretical model, discrete unitary transformations using 
CGPH in multimode channel waveguides are first analyzed. The general case of mode 
transformations is considered. The multimode waveguide with CGPHs transforms the 
input mode amplitude vector A(0) into the output mode amplitude vector A(L) 
through the unitary matrix H. Coupled-mode theory [19] is used to show that arbitrary 
unitary mode transformations can be performed on coherent spatial signals using the 
CGPHs. 
Previously [9], we proposed and demonstrated a CGPH algorithm based on the 
computer generated modal interference pattern using a beam propagation code, which 
is described in the next subsection. This design algorithm is simple and intuitive in 
using the modal interference pattern to present each of the grating components in K. 
The CGPH can be easily determined by varying the grating strength according to the 
required coupling coefficients. 
（b） 元件模擬方法 
In order to verify the hologram design, we have to model the propagation of 
beams in the CGPH devices. Waveguides with nonuniform structures such as the 
CGPH devices cannot be treated with analytical methods. For our simulations, we 
choose the beam propagation method (BPM), which has been developed for the 
analysis of nonuniform structures as bends, tapers, and crosses in the beam 
propagation direction. The finite difference beam propagation method (FD-BPM) has 
been shown to be accurate, computationally efficient, and stable compared to the 
conventional fast Fourier transform beam propagation method (FFT-BPM) [20]. A 
multi-step wide-angle scheme developed by Hadley [21,22] is used for our 
simulations. 
（c） 電腦平面全像圖形於多模光波導上之製作 
 Here, we briefly outline the device fabrication steps developed with collaborators 
 5
can be synthesized. Matrix analysis of the coupled-mode equations is used to derive 
the conditions for the generation of unitary transformations on coherent spatial optical 
signals. General expressions for the transform matrix are derived. 
 
（四）計畫成果自評 
We have developed a new algorithm for modeling the CGPH on multimode 
waveguide devices as expected in the proposal. Also, using the established algorithm, 
we demonstrated a novel variable ratio power splitter using the concept of CGPH on 
multimode waveguides. In addition to completing the two abovementioned tasks in 
the proposal, we also studied the optical transformation properties of LPWG arrays 
and discovered that a 4×4 Walsh–Hadamard transform can be synthesized through 
proper design of the array.  
Over the past year, the result of this research has turned into two peer reviewed 
journal papers, was presented in one peer reviewed conference. Below is a list of the 
publications from this project.  
 
（五）執行此計畫產出之論文 
Refereed Journal Paper 
1. S.-Y. Tseng, “Synthesis of a 4×4 Walsh-Hadamard transformer using 
long-period waveguide grating arrays,” IEEE Photonics Technology Letters 21, 
972-974 (2009).  
2. S.-Y. Tseng, S. K. Choi, and B. Kippelen, “Variable-ratio power splitters using 
computer-generated planar holograms on multimode interference couplers,” 
Optics Letters 34, 512-514 (2009). 
Refereed Conference Paper 
1. S.-Y. Tseng, S. Choi, and B. Kippelen, “Variable ratio power splitters using 
computer-generated planar holograms on 2×2 multimode interference 
couplers,” in Conference on Lasers and Electro-Optics, (Optical Society of 
America, 2009). 
 
參考文獻 
1. D. J. Blumenthal, J. E. Bowers, L. Rau, H.-F. Chou, S. Rangarajan, W. Wang, H. 
and N. Poulsen, “Optical signal processing for optical packet switching networks,” 
IEEE Commun. Mag. 41, S23-S29 (2003). 
2. T. Yatagai, S. Kawai, and H. Huang, “Optical computing and interconnects,” 
Proc. IEEE 84, 828-852 (1996).  
3. B. G. Boone, Signal processing using optics (Oxford, New York, 1998). 
4. F. T. S. Yu and S. Jutamulia, Optical signal processing, computing, and neural 
 7
20. Y. Chung and N. Dagli, “An assessment of finite difference beam propagation 
method,” IEEE J. Quantum Electron. 26, 1335-1339 (1990). 
21. G. R. Hadley, “Wide-angle beam propagation using Pade approximant 
operators,” Opt. Lett 17, 1426-1428 (1992).  
22. G. R. Hadley, “Multistep method for wide-angle beam propagation,” Opt. Lett17, 
1743-1745 (1992). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
K = 0  0 , 1
where  represents the coupling coefficient; its mag-
nitude is on the order of 2 /n /nc [11]. For a
single input port, the output power at bar and cross
ports can be calculated from VL as
bar:12 1 + sin 2LH, 2
cross:12 1 − sin 2LH. 3
From Eqs. (2) and (3), it is obvious that an arbitrary
power-splitting ratio can be obtained by varying  via
index modulation n or by varying the hologram
length LH while maintaining the dimensions of the
MMI. We calculate the CGPH using a two-
dimensional wide-angle beam-propagation method
(WA-BPM) [15] with the effective index correspond-
ing to TE polarization of the device. The calculated
CGPH is then converted to a binary pattern for fab-
rication.
The fabrication is a two-step process involving
separate patterning and alignment of the CGPH
layer and the MMI layer. First, we pattern
1-m-deep global alignment marks on the chip for
both layers using the electron beam (e-beam) lithog-
raphy and a reactive ion etching (RIE) system with
an SF6/O2 chemistry. The global marks are neces-
sary because it is difficult to align the MMI patterns
to the shallow etched CGPH patterns. The CGPH is
aligned to the global marks, patterned using the
same e-beam system, and transferred to Si with the
same RIE. The etch depth detch for the CGPH is var-
ied from 130 to 260 nm to change the power-splitting
ratio of the devices; detch is directly related to the
magnitude of the effective index modulation n and
can be estimated by the effective index method [16].
Then, the MMIs are patterned and aligned to the
CGPH layer via the global marks using a contact
aligner and transferred to Si with the same RIE sys-
tem. The etch depth for the MMI patterns is 1 m.
The final processing steps of the fabrication involve
cleaving the chips to obtain optical quality facets for
test and measurement.
Devices with a different etch depth and hologram
length are fabricated. Figure 2 shows a section of a
fabricated device and scanning electron microscope
(SEM) micrographs. These devices are measured
with a cw laser at a wavelength of 1.55 m with TE
input polarization. Light is coupled into the input
and out of the bar and cross ports shown in Fig. 1 via
tapered fibers. The typical insertion loss of the mea-
sured devices is between 13.5–14.8 dB, including an
estimated fiber-coupling loss of 4.5 dB/facet. The
MMI without CGPHs functions as a 50:50 power
splitter as designed. As predicted by the theoretical
calculations and numerical simulations in [14], the
power-splitting ratio of fixed-dimension 22 MMI
couplers can be varied by changing the CGPH etch
depth and the CGPH length, as shown in Fig. 3.
There are discrepancies between the measured split-
ting ratios and the predicted splitting ratios by the
analytical calculations in Eqs. (2) and (3). This is due
to the difference between the binary pattern used in
the fabrication and the smooth refractive index
modulation assumed in the analytical calculations.
Using the WA-BPM model, we simulated the split-
ting ratios using the binary CGPH pattern used in
the fabrication. The effective index modulation n’s
in the simulation are −0.005, −0.010, −0.015, and
−0.002, which correspond to etch depths of approxi-
mately 130, 200, 260, and 300 nm in the SOI mate-
Fig. 1. Top, schematic of the 22 CGPH power splitter on
SOI. Bottom, dimensions of the power splitter.
Fig. 2. (Color online) Section of the fabricated 22 CGPH
power splitter. Insets show SEM micrographs of the device.
Fig. 3. Normalized splitting ratio (Meas.) of the fabricated
devices with different etch depth detch and hologram length
LH at =1.55 m with TE polarization. Also shown are
simulated splitting ratios (Sim.) of devices with various ef-
fective index modulations corresponding to the different
etch depths.
February 15, 2009 / Vol. 34, No. 4 / OPTICS LETTERS 513
972 IEEE PHOTONICS TECHNOLOGY LETTERS, VOL. 21, NO. 14, JULY 15, 2009
Synthesis of a 4 4 Walsh–Hadamard Transformer
Using Long-Period Waveguide Grating Arrays
Shuo-Yen Tseng
Abstract—Synthesis of discrete unitary transformations using
long-period grating arrays are analyzed. Matrix analysis of the
coupled-mode equations is used to derive the conditions for the
generation of unitary transformations on coherent spatial optical
signals. General expressions for the transform matrix are derived.
In particular, the grating parameters for the synthesis of a 4 4
Walsh–Hadamard transformer are derived. A design example
with device parameters is also presented.
Index Terms—Coupled mode analysis, gratings, Hadamard
transforms, optical planar waveguides, waveguide arrays.
I. INTRODUCTION
D ISCRETE unitary transformations such as theWalsh–Hadamard transform and the discrete Fourier
transform (DFT) have many interesting applications [1]. Reck
et al. [2] proved that optical realizations of arbitrary unitary
transformations could be constructed using an arrangement
of beam splitters, phase shifters, and mirrors. It has also been
pointed out that Hadamard transform and DFT of coherent light
patterns can be performed through a network of single-mode
fibers with passive components, such as 2 2 couplers and phase
shifters (delays) [3], [4]. In practice, it is difficult to implement
such an arrangement with precise phase shifts along each of
the fibers in the network, and an integrated waveguide-based
structure might be a more feasible approach. In integrated
optics, a similar approach to synthesize Hadamard transformers
by a combination of multimode interference couplers has
also been proposed [5]. These approaches are similar to the
realization of operations such as the fast Fourier transform by
an interconnected array of basic electronic processors, and can
be scaled to general transforms.
Another approach for the realization of transforms on co-
herent light patterns is based on the computer-generated planar
holograms (CGPHs) [6]. The recent advances of micro and
nano-fabrication technologies have allowed the realization of
highly complex patterns on planar lightwave circuits. Coupling
the new fabrication capability with the rapid advance of com-
puting power, it is now possible to calculate and fabricate a
refractive index distribution as a hologram on a waveguide to
Manuscript received February 05, 2009; revised April 08, 2009. First pub-
lished May 08, 2009; current version published June 26, 2009. This work was
supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan under Contract NSC97-
2218-E-006-281-.
The author is with the Department of Electro-Optical Engineering, National
Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701, Taiwan (e-mail: tsengsy@mail.ncku.edu.
tw).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/LPT.2009.2021154
perform arbitrary unitary transformations such as the Hadamard
transform [7]. In contrast to the single-mode waveguide struc-
tures, these devices use computer-generated index perturbations
to mix and transform the optical modes in a multimode guiding
structure to generate the desired transform. This approach is
based on the versatile concept of integrated diffractive optics
pioneered by Mossberg [8]. Recently, this concept has also
been applied to the design of passive components by matching
the input and output wavefronts using index perturbations [9].
There have been extensive studies on the applications of
long-period waveguide grating (LPWG) arrays for power
splitting, coupling, filtering, and add/drop multiplexing func-
tionalities [10], [11]. Conceptually, these devices are similar
to the CGPHs in which the guided modes in the composite
structure are mixed and transformed to generate the desired
output. A recent analysis [10] showed that an LPWG array
consisting of an arbitrary number of parallel gratings could be
useful in realizing a wide range of multiport devices. So far,
LPWG array-based devices have mostly been considered for
type functionalities, and the applications of LPWG arrays
as transformers have yet to be fully analyzed. In this
letter, we consider discrete unitary transformations of coherent
spatial light patterns using LPWG arrays. Starting from the
coupled-mode analysis [12] in the matrix form, we analyze
the conditions for the generation of unitary transformations
using LPWG arrays and show that a 4 4 Walsh–Hadamard
transform can be synthesized.
II. MATRIX ANALYSIS OF COUPLED-MODE EQUATIONS
Similar to [10], we start from analyzing an LPWG array with
parallel identical single-mode waveguides embedded in a
common rectangular cladding, and each waveguide contains
a grating with the same pitch and the same length . In
our analysis, the gratings are not necessarily perfectly aligned
with each other. Assuming the waveguides are sufficiently
separated such that the evanescent coupling between adjacent
waveguides could be neglected, we consider only the coupling
of the guided modes of the waveguides to a single cladding
mode of the composite structure. Using the coupled-mode
formalism and assuming that the wavelength is on resonance,
the mode amplitudes in the LPWG array can be described by
the following set of coupled equations:
(1)
where the electric field amplitude of the th waveguide is de-
noted by , the field amplitude in cladding mode in con-
sideration is denoted as , and is the coupling coefficient
1041-1135/$25.00 © 2009 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Cheng Kung University. Downloaded on June 27, 2009 at 22:57 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
974 IEEE PHOTONICS TECHNOLOGY LETTERS, VOL. 21, NO. 14, JULY 15, 2009
Fig. 2. Top-view schematic of the designed 4   4 Walsh–Hadamard trans-
former using an LPWG array. The grating in the first waveguide is offset by
   with respect to the other three perfectly aligned gratings.
cladding modes of the composite structure and their effective
indices. From the calculated effective indices, a grating pitch of
m is chosen for the coupling between the guided
modes and the cladding mode for the quasi-TE polarization.
To realize the condition in (13) with a grating length of
mm, the coupling coefficients required are 157.1 m for all
four cores. The coupling coefficient is determined by the overlap
integral between each guided mode and the mode over the
area of grating corrugation [12]. Since the modal-overlap de-
pends on the core location, different corrugation depths are re-
quired. The mode has a stronger overlap with the two cen-
tral cores due to its field distribution. With the mode solver, we
find that a corrugation depth of 78 nm for the two central cores
and 181 nm for the two side cores give the desired coupling co-
efficients. As shown schematically in Fig. 2, with the calculated
grating pitch and corrugation depths, a Walsh–Hadamard trans-
former can be synthesized using a 10-mm LPWG array by off-
setting the grating in one of the four waveguides by , while
maintaining perfect alignment of the other three gratings.
To evaluate the performance of the design example, we
consider using the Walsh–Hadamard transformer to recognize
phase modulated labels as in [7]. When phase modulated labels
represented by the column vectors of (12) are input into the
transformer, ideally, light is mapped to only one output port.
Fabrication errors in the grating corrugation depths results in
changes in the coupling coefficients and can affect the device
performance. For a grating corrugation depth variation of
10 nm, we find that the output pattern still have a contrast of
at least 8.4 dB. The device performance might also be impacted
by the undesired coupling from the guided modes to the other
cladding modes. By properly choosing the device parameters
[10], the resonance wavelengths for the undesired coupling can
be moved sufficiently far away from 1550 nm to minimize the
impact. The operation bandwidth of this class of devices will
depend on the material system chosen for device realizations.
The wide transmission bandwidth of the long-period grating
structure is well documented in the literature [15].
We note that this device also functions as a 1–4 power
distributor with each output waveguide carrying 25% of the
input power no matter which input waveguide is chosen as the
launching core. By requiring the gratings to be perfectly aligned
with each other and setting , we
can obtain the matrix
(14)
which also functions as a 1–4 power distributor and is consistent
with the result in [10].
IV. CONCLUSION
Synthesis of unitary transforms using LPWG arrays is consid-
ered using the coupled-mode analysis in the matrix formulation.
Restrictions on the grating coupling coefficients are derived for
the case when the cladding mode carries no power at the output
of the array. When these conditions are met, the LPWG array
functions as an unitary transformer on the parallel
single-mode waveguides of the array. Using the derived condi-
tions, we obtain the grating coupling coefficients for the syn-
thesis of a 4 4 Walsh–Hadamard transformer using a 4 4
LPWG array. A design example is given for the synthesis of a
Walsh–Hadamard transformer using polymer waveguide.
REFERENCES
[1] L. R. Rabiner and B. Gold, Theory and Application of Digital Signal
Processing. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1975.
[2] M. Reck, A. Zeilinger, H. J. Bernstein, and P. Bertani, “Experimental
realization of any discrete unitary operator,” Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 73,
no. 1, pp. 58–61, 1994.
[3] M. E. Marhic, “Discrete Fourier transforms by single-mode star net-
works,” Opt. Lett., vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 63–65, 1987.
[4] A. E. Siegman, “Fiber fourier optics,” Opt. Lett., vol. 26, no. 16, pp.
1215–1217, 2001.
[5] A. R. Gupta, K. Tsutsumi, and J. Nakayama, “Synthesis of Hadamard
transformers by use of multimode interference optical waveguides,”
Appl. Opt., vol. 42, no. 15, pp. 2730–2738, 2003.
[6] S.-Y. Tseng, S. K. Choi, and B. Kippelen, “Variable ratio power split-
ters using computer-generated planar holograms on multimode inter-
ference couplers,” Opt. Lett., vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 512–514, 2009.
[7] S.-Y. Tseng, Y. Kim, C. J. K. Richardson, and J. Goldhar, “Imple-
mentation of discrete unitary transformations by multimode waveguide
holograms,” Appl. Opt., vol. 45, no. 20, pp. 4864–4872, 2006.
[8] T. W. Mossberg, “Planar holographic optical processing devices,” Opt.
Lett., vol. 26, no. 7, pp. 414–416, 2001.
[9] T. Hashimoto, T. Saida, I. Ogawa, M. Kohtoku, T. Shibata, and H.
Takahashi, “Optical circuit design based on a wavefront-matching
method,” Opt. Lett., vol. 30, no. 19, pp. 2620–2622, 2005.
[10] Y. Bai and K. S. Chiang, “Analysis of long-period waveguide grating
arrays,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 24, no. 10, pp. 3856–3863, Oct. 2006.
[11] Y. Bai, Q. Liu, K. P. Lor, and K. S. Chiang, “Widely tunable long-
period waveguide grating couplers,” Opt. Express, vol. 14, no. 26, pp.
12644–12654, 2006.
[12] A. Yariv, “Coupled-mode theory for guided-wave optics,” IEEE J.
Quantum Electron., vol. QE-9, no. 9, pp. 919–933, Sep. 1973.
[13] J. L. Shanks, “Computation of the fast Walsh–Fourier transform,” IEEE
Trans. Comput., vol. C-18, no. 5, pp. 457–459, May 1969.
[14] A. B. Fallahkhair, K. S. Li, and T. E. Murphy, “Vector finite difference
modesolver for anisotropic dielectric waveguides,” J. Lightw. Technol.,
vol. 26, no. 11, pp. 1423–1431, Jun. 1, 2008.
[15] A. M. Vengsarkar, P. J. Lemaire, J. B. Judkins, V. Bhatia, T. Erdogan,
and J. E. Sipe, “Long-period fiber gratings as band-rejection filters,” J.
Lightw. Technol., vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 58–65, Jan. 1996.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Cheng Kung University. Downloaded on June 27, 2009 at 22:57 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
 9
技術特點 
傳統上，我們必須改變元件的尺寸以達成不同的分光率；而這種新
的元件，是在固定大小的元件上，利用表面蝕刻的全像圖形來產生
任意的分光率。這將使得此類元件與其他積體光學元件的結合更加
容易。 
推廣及運用的價值 
此技術將為新一代的積體光學元件設計提供一個全新的設計平
台，並且能夠拓展跨領域的系統整合以應用在光通信、光互連波
導、光信號處理、與感測等領域上。 
 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
