摘要 
 
碟狀分子材料被視為最富潛力的有機半導體及新型光電材料。為提高碟狀分子材料元件
的性能﹐對碟狀分子堆疊的控制以獲得所需的分子配向極為重要。本計畫的主要課題是研究
碟狀分子與固體表面的相互作用﹐以及基板表面特性對碟狀分子組裝的影響。我們的精力集
中在對基板表面自由能的觀察和研究﹐及其對碟狀分子堆疊的影響。裸玻璃﹐ITO 鍍層玻璃﹐
鐵氟隆﹐聚醯亞胺被用着基板. 這些基板提供具有不同的表面能的表面。我們還採用氧氣電
漿轟擊表面以對基板表面能進行調整。我們的研究發現基板表面能對碟狀分子在該基板上的
堆疊具有重要的功效。在一個表面自由能較低的表面上﹐碟狀分子一般以“邊緣朝上＂ 錨
定的方式堆疊﹐並可期望得到平面配向的柱狀態﹔而在表面能較高的基板上﹐分子則以“碟
面朝上＂方式堆疊﹐並可形成垂直配向的柱狀態。溫度在分子堆疊過程中亦相當重要。樣品
降溫速度過快將產生局部熱力學紊亂引起柱體堆疊的破損而導致分子定向失敗。基板溫度的
昇高則可使碟狀分子柱偏離基板法向而傾斜。 
 
關鍵詞﹕碟狀分子  分子堆疊  自組裝  表面能  表面錨定  柱狀態配向 
 
Abstract 
Materials that consist of discotic molecules are thought to be potential materials for organic 
semiconductors and photonic applications. It is primary important to achieve desired molecular 
alignment in the columnar phase in order to get good performance of the devices. The main object 
of the project is to study the molecule-surface interactions in materials consist of discotic 
molecules, and the effect of the surface characteristics of the substrates on the molecular assembly 
of the discotic materials. As to the surface characteristics of the substrates, we focused on the 
surface free energy and its effects on the self-assembly of the discotic molecular systems. Bare 
glass plate, Indium-Tin-Oxide (ITO) coated glass, PTFE, and polyimide have used as substrates. 
These substrates of different materials provide surface with different surface free energies. The 
effects of O2 plasma on modifying surface free energy of a substrate were studied. It has been 
found that surface free energy of a substrate to play a very important role in determining the 
molecular anchoring of the discotic molecules, and the orientation of the columnar phase. On a 
surface with low energy, the discotic molecules will assemble with the edge-on anchoring, and the 
homogenous alignment of discotic columns can be expected, whereas a substrate which possesses 
a high free energy favours the face-on anchoring and may lead to the homeotropic alignment of the 
columns. For a homeotropically aligned columnar phase, a decrease in the surface free energy of 
the substrate will cause an increase in the tilt of the columns from the normal of the substrate.  
 
Key words: discotic molecules, molecular stack, self-assembly, surface free energy, surface 
anchoring, columnar phase alignment 
 
producing homogenous alignment of discotic columns [12,13]. In this technique, a thin layer of 
PTFE is coated onto a substrate, which is pre-heated to 300°C, by pressing and rubbing a PTFE 
rod on the substrate. A low surface free energy of the PTFE favours the edge-on molecular 
anchoring for many discotic materials. The problems with this technique are difficulties in 
obtaining large area discotic layer with uniform alignment.  
 A very attractive method with great potential is the one that is developed by Monobe et al 
[14-16]. They used a 6 ~ 8 μm wavelength laser beam to illuminate discotic material thin layer. 
The material in the region exposed to the laser will be heated to a high temperature, and reduce its 
viscosity, and the molecules in the region will be driven to aligned in accordance to the 
polarization of the laser beam.  
 Although the techniques mentioned above can more or less show their ability to align discotic 
molecules, none of them can be used in practical applications due to their low reliability, high cost, 
or complexity. On the other hand, despite the substantial activities related to the material 
processing and the device applications of discotic materials, the fundamental molecular assembly 
principles that determine the macroscopic orientation of discotic molecules are still poorly 
understood. 
 
III. Objectives 
To insight into the self-assembly systems, find out the factors that govern molecular stacking, 
and produce electronic and photonic devices with good performance motivates us to carry out 
work proposed by this project.  
Initially, the proposed project includes two phases of work: the study of the effects of surface 
characteristics and energetic states of environment on the molecular stacking of discotic molecules, 
and the control of orientation of discotic molecules and construction of columnar phase for the 
product of molecular wires. What presented in this report is the work carried out in the first phase 
of the research. The primary objectives of the project are to investigate the surface characteristics 
of the substrates and interfacial behaviors of the discotic molecules.     
 
IV. Methodology and experimental set up 
  In general, discotic molecules tend to stack face-to-face through a self-organization which 
governed by the π−π interaction, and form a columnar structure [17]. In an assembly of discotic 
molecules, two basic types, the face-on and the edge-on, of molecular anchoring of the discotic 
columns on a substrate are generally found. In the face-on anchoring, the discotic molecules stack 
with the normal of the disc faces perpendicular to the substrate surface, whereas in the edge-on 
anchoring, the normal of the disc faces is parallel to the surface of the substrate. A columnar phase, 
in which discotic columns aggregate to have their axes parallel to the normal of the substrate over 
entire observed region, is referred to as the homeotropically aligned columnar phase. The 
(Linkam Scientific Instrument Ltd). The alignment states of the samples were examined by means 
of optical microscopy, that was performed using a polarizing microscope (Axioscop 40, ZEISS). 
Photomicrographs were taken using a digital camera (PowerShot A620, Canon) that is installed in 
the microscope. 
 
V. Results and achievement 
5.1. Effects of surface free energy of substrates 
 The surface free energy of the substrate is a decisive factor that can govern the way the 
anchoring of the discotic molecules on the surface. For rod-like molecules, Porte [19] proposed a 
classic mode that states the pretilt angle θ, which is the angle the long molecular axis makes with 
the substrate surface, is determined by the relative magnitude of the surface energies of the 
substrate γs and the liquid crystal γL,   
 Δγ = γL – γs.    (1)   
The condition of Δγ > 0 makes θ = π/2, and induces the homeotropic alignment; the condition 
of Δγ < 0 makes θ = 0, and induces the homogeneous alignment. If we take disc normal as the 
molecular axis for discotic molecules and let θ be the angle between surface normal and molecular 
axis, the results of our observation in the present studies are of agreement with Porte’s theory.  
 
Fig. 3.  Alignment of discotic columns on a solid surface. θ is the tilt angle of the column 
made against the normal of the surface of the substrate, and φ is azimuthal angle of the 
column on the surface. 
 
Firstly, we treated the glass surface to modify the surface free energy of the substrates by O2 
plasma bombardment. The fluxes of oxygen and argon were controlled at 800 ml/min and 80 
ml/min, respectively. The chamber pressure was maintained at 1.6 mbar. Figure 4 shows the 
variation of surface free energy with the duration of bombardment. The surface free energy 
increases with an increase in bombarding time. We found that on a surface with high surface 
energy, the discotic molecules stack to form columns with face-on anchoring, whereas a surface 
with low free energy favors edge-on molecular anchoring. As surface energy decreases, the 
discotic columns tilt from the normal of the substrate. A short period of plasma bombardment was 
           
(a)                                 (b)  
Fig. 6.  (a) The central radial texture and the molecular stacking model of HDPB-8 on 
glass surface. The disc-like molecules stack in edge-on orientation, and the discotic 
columns are arranged in a radial structure. (b) Optical texture of HDBP-8 on ITO, and 
possible molecular structure of the material. The photographs were taken when the sample 
temperature was 130°C. 
 
 In summary, on surfaces, which possesses a higher free energy, the face-on anchoring of 
discotic molecules is usually observed, whereas on a surface, with a lower surface free energy will 
favor the edge-on anchoring. For a homeotropic aligned columnar phase, when the surface free 
energy is reduced, the columns will tilt from the normal of the substrate, and finally lay parallel to 
the surface, i.e. become homogeneously aligned, if the surface free energy is very low.   
 
  
(a)                          (b) 
Fig. 7. Optical texture of HDBP-8 sandwiched (a) between ITO glass substrates, and (b) 
between rubbed PTFE coated glass plates.  
 
5.2. Surface free energy of polyimide modified by mechanical rubbing 
We clearly showed that, as illustrated in Fig. 8, surface free energy of polyimide decreases with an 
increase in rubbing strength. The surface free energy is found to vary azimuthally after the 
polymer surface is rubbed. The surface energy measured along rubbing direction is different from 
that measured against the rubbing direction. 
We introduce a concept of the in-line anisotropy of surface energy for the analysis of the 
orientational behaviour of molecules in a deformed surface energy template. We found that by 
properly rubbing a polymer, the in-line anisotropy of surface energy can be effectively reduced or 
eliminated, and this is in favour of producing defect free ferroelectric liquid crystal layers [21]. 
This is significant as it may lead to opening the use of ferroelectric liquid crystals in display 
applications. We believe that it will also be useful when we consider the alignment of the columnar 
columns, whereas a substrate which possesses a high free energy favours the face-on anchoring. 
For a homeotropically aligned columnar phase, a decrease in the surface free energy of the 
substrate will cause an increase in the tilt of the columns from the normal of the substrate.  
 Some preliminary results have been reported [21,23]. Further discussions have been 
presented in manuscripts [20,25], and have been submitted for publishing.  
ii) Surface free energy can be modified by mechanical rubbing 
 Rubbing breaks the two-dimensional topographical uniformity of the polymer surface and 
causes changes in the surface free energy of the polymer thin films. The surface free energy is 
found to decrease with an increase in the rubbing strength, and exhibit azimuthal non-uniformity. 
One paper [24] has been published, and another manuscript [25] has been submitted for 
publishing.  
iii) The effects of the temperature of the substrate 
 Surface energy of the substrate is found to decrease with the increase in temperature, and this 
leads to an increase in the tilt of the discotic columns from the normal of the substrate. This 
provides another guideline for the control of the orientation of the columnar phase. A manuscript 
on this theme is writing up. 
6.2.  A self-assessment 
 We have learnt the effects of surface characteristics on the molecular stacking of the discotic 
molecules, and have an insight into the interfacial region of the discotic materials and solid surface 
system. Over 95% of the targets proposed by the project have been achieved. In addition, we have 
studied the effects of surface characteristics of the substrates on interfacial behaviours for a wide 
range of mesogenic materials. We are now reaching the frontier in this research area. The 
knowledge about the surface characteristics of the substrates and the interfacial are very useful and 
helpful. 
6.3. Suggestions for future work 
 Based on the achievements, further researches that should be conducted in future are 
suggested as follows. 
i. Modify surfaces for achieving desired anchoring of discotic molecules. The surface 
modification can be achieved by using new surfactants, engineering surfaces into suitable 
topographic patterns, or through a photo-processing. 
ii. We are proposing to use laser annealing discotic layer to achieve desired molecular 
conformation directly. This is a new approach in controlling assembly of discotic materials, 
and would open a new research direction in this field.  
 
 
molecules in the columnar phase, Proc. Asia Dis. 2007, 2, 1766 – 71. 
[24] W. Zheng, C.-H. Lu, and Y.-C. Ye, Effects of mechanical rubbing on surface tension of 
polyimide thin films, Jap. J. Appl. Phys. 47, 1651-56 (2008). 
[25] W. Zheng, C.-C. Wang, S.-P. Wang, and C.-L. Ko, Surface Wettability of Rubbed Polyimide 
Thin Films, submitted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC96-2221-E-110-042 
計畫名稱 碟狀分子材料之配向及其光電特性的異向性之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 鄭文軍, 國立中山大學光電工程研究所助理教授 
會議時間地點 2008 年 6 月 29 日至 7月 4日, 韓國濟州 
會議名稱 第 22 屆國際液晶學術研討會 
發表論文題目 
1. RUBBED POLYIMIDE THIN FILMS FOR ZIGZAG FREE SURFACE STABILIZED 
FERROELECTRIC LIQUID CRYSTAL 
2. SURFACE WETTABILITY OF RUBBED POLYIMIDE THIN FILMS 
3. IMPRINTING HOLOGRAPHIC PATTERNS INTO POLYMER LIQUID CRYSTALS  
 
一、 參加會議經過 
“國際液晶學術研討大會＂是由國
際液晶協會(ILCC)主辦, 每兩年舉行一
次的全球液晶研究極其相關研究領域之
學術及工程應用發展的學術研討和交流
大會. 本次大會為第 22 屆, 由韓國資訊
影像學會(KIDS)受託主辦, 於 2008 年 6
月 29 日至 7月 4日在韓國濟南州島國際
會展中心(ICC)舉行. 
 會議期間, 來自世界各地 41 個國家和地
區的學界, 業界的代表 870 人共發表涵蓋包括生物科學和奈米技術在內的非常廣闊的
研究領域的一千多篇會議演講和張貼論文. 大會共有 26 個主題研討分會場, 壁報則在
6個場次分別張貼.  
 
大會主會場專題報告 
 我們在本次會議上以壁報形式發表了三篇文章, 分別從不同的角度介紹我們在國科會
第 22 屆國際液晶學術研討會. 
