 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
以蒸氣誘導式相分離程序紡製中空纖維膜之成膜機制與薄膜特性研究 
The study of formation mechanism and properties of hollow fiber membranes 
via vapor induced phase separation 
 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－253－004－ 
執行期間： 96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：蔡惠安教授 南亞技術學院 材料與纖維系 
Abstract 
In this study, hollow fiber membranes were fabricated via wet or dry/wet spinning process by 
using polysulfone (PSf) as polymer matrix to investigate the effect of vapor induced phase 
separation (VIPS) on the membrane formation mechanisms and membrane properties of PSf hollow 
fiber membranes. The effect of spinning temperature as well as dope compositions such as additives 
(included surfactant, and polyethylene glycol （PEG）) on the morphology were investigated via 
spinning process by changing ambient humidity. The understanding of hollow fiber membrane 
formation was more enhanced and got insight into the morphology control of hollow fiber 
membrane via this investigation. 
Keywords: Polysulfone, hollow fiber membrane, vapor induced phase separation, additive, air gap 
中文摘要 
本研究利用商業化之聚碸(polysulfone, 簡稱PSf)高分子為膜材，以濕式或乾/濕式紡絲程
序(Wet or Dry/wet spinning process)紡製中空纖維膜，探討蒸氣誘導式相分離(Vapor Induced 
Phase Separation, 簡稱VIPS) 對中空纖維膜之成膜機制與薄膜性質之影響。研究中改變紡絲溫
度以及高分子溶液中之組成，藉由不同親疏水性之界面活性劑添加劑與Polyethylene glycol
（PEG）添加劑等，探討在紡絲時不同之相對濕度與氣距(air gap)條件下，蒸氣式誘導式相分
離程序對所紡製之中空纖維膜之結構型態影響。 
關鍵字：聚碸、中空纖維膜、蒸氣誘導式相分離、添加劑、氣距 
Introduction 
Membrane processes have many applications in separation of mixtures. The applicability of a 
membrane technique to a separation process strongly depends on if the membrane possessing 
 4
Although the role of VIPS in the forming of flat-sheet membranes was widely studied, as 
discussed in the preceding paragraph, few articles identified the importance of VIPS in the 
preparation of hollow fiber membranes. A wet spinning process with an air gap is actually a dry/wet 
process since both evaporation of solvent and intake of water vapor can occur in the air gap. 
Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that VIPS occur in the air gap and affect the final morphology 
of hollow fibers, especially when the polymer solvent has low volatility but high water affinity. 
However, the role of VIPS in determining the morphology of hollow fibers has yet been 
investigated. Only some reports [12-15] have pointed out that ambient humidity might have 
influences on membrane morphology. Investigation on the interplay between VIPS and membrane 
morphology is still needed, to get insight into the morphology control of hollow fibers.  
Experimental  
Materials 
Polysulfone (PSf) (Udel P-3500) was purchased from the AMOCO Performance Products Inc. 
(Ridgefield, CT, USA). N-methyl pyrrolidinone (NMP) of reagent grade, without further 
purification, was used as the solvent for PSf, and distilled water was used as its coagulant. PEG 
with various molecular weight (PEG 200, PEG 1000 and PEG 10K) and surfactants, Span 80 and 
Tween 20 were used as the additives. 
Fabrication of PSf flat membrane 
PSf was dissolved in solvent, NMP, to form 26 wt. % of casting solution and was then 
degassed at least 1 day. The degassed casting solution was cast on a glass plate to a thickness of 300
μm with Gardner knife in the cabinet (Jwo Ruey Technical Co., Ltd., Taiwan) where temperature 
and humidity were well controlled. The cast film was stood in the temperature and humidity 
controlled cabinet for various period time then was immersed in the same temperature of water 
bath.  
Spinning of PSf hollow fiber membranes 
Three PEGs (PEG 200, 1000 and 10K) and surfactants (Span 80 and Tween 20) were mixed 
separately with NMP in glass flask. Dried PSf chips added into the mixture in the flask under 
agitation to form a homogenous polymer solution, which was then sat still for at least one day. Next, 
the homogenous polymer solution was poured into a dope tank and kept there overnight for 
eliminating the air bubbles formed during the stages of agitation and pouring. 
The degassed homogeneous solution was used to fabricate PSf hollow fiber membranes with 
the dry/wet spinning process. The polymer solution was extruded through a spinneret to a 
coagulation bath of water with an adjustable air gap between the spinneret and the water bath. The 
 6
water vapor which was condensed onto the surface of the casting film was easy to penetrate into the 
casting film in the case of higher temperature, resulted in the demixing of casting film. Moreover, 
the viscosity of PSf polymer solution at 50 OC was lower than 25 OC one, resulted in the 50 OC 
polymer solution was easy to phase separation than 25 OC one (the viscosity of PSf (26 wt%)/NMP 
polymer solution was 7510 cp and 3370 cp at 25 OC and 50 OC, respectively). 
Figs. 2 ~ 5 shows the cross-sectional and surface morphology of PSf (26 wt%)/NMP 
membranes which were fabricated by placing the casting film in the 25 and 50 OC of 90% RH 
humidity-and-temperature controlled cabinet for various time periods and then were immersed into 
water bath. The data in Figs. 2 ~ 5 reveals that the temperature and relative humidity indeed 
affected the morphology of PSf membranes. 
For the wet inversion phase separation system, it can be found that there exist many 
macrovoids at the cross-section and dense skin layer at the surface of PSf membrane (as shown in 
Figs. 2(A), 3(A), 4(A) and 5(A)). It is accepted that there might have many macrovoids for the 
solvent/nonsolvent membrane formation system of NMP/Water in the process of wet inversion 
phase separation system [1]. The data in Figs. 2(A) and 3(A) also reveals that there exist bigger 
macrovoids for the higher formation temperature. These results might be due to that the demixing 
rate increased, resulted in the lower viscosity of casting film and higher solvent/nonsolvent 
exchange rate for the higher temperature system. Thus, bigger macrovoids could be formed as 
increasing the formation temperature. 
In here, we should pay more attention to that the exposure time of PSf/NMP casting film in the 
90% RH environment also affects dramatically the morphology of PSf membrane, regardless of 
temperature. The macrovoids were clearly seen with wet inversion phase separation, but totally 
disappeared as increasing the standing time in the humid environment. The macrovoids were then 
reappeared for longer standing time. As the standing time was prolonged, theses macrovoids were 
continued to become smaller and then fully re-suppressed. The data in Figs. 2 and 3 also reveals 
that the environment temperature also can affect the standing time of macrovoids suppressed, 
reappeared, and re-suppressed. For example, the surface pore increased with increasing the standing 
time periods in the high humid cabinet, as shown in Figs. 4 and 5. 
According to the above results, the water vapor in the humidity-and-temperature controlled 
cabinet plays an important role in determining the final morphology of the prepared membranes. In 
the PSf/NMP as-cast film standing in the high humid environment, solvent evaporation and water 
intake can both occur and affect the final morphology. However, because of the low volatility of the 
solvent we used (NMP, boiling point=202 OC), solvent evaporation would not be as important as 
 8
shown in Fig. 7(E). The idea of transient gel would make the above mechanism more reasonable. 
Tanaka [18] studied the thermally induced phase separation and found that, in a short time period 
after phase separation, the phase-separated solution became a gel because of the elasticity of the 
polymer-rich phase, resulting in a time period in which coarsening was inhibited. However, after 
this short period, coarsening was no longer inhibited because the elasticity is important only in a 
time period shorter than the polymer relaxation time. Therefore, the phase-separated solution was 
gelled for only a short time period, so he called it “transient gel.” The idea of transient gel can well 
explain why macrovoids were suppressed first but reappeared with an increasing air gap. When 
phase separation occurred in the air gap due to water intake, a thin gel layer formed which reduced 
the exchange rate of solvent and nonsolvent in the coagulation bath and thus inhibited the formation 
of macrovoids. However, because the gel was only transient but not permanent, with a longer air 
gap, macrovoids reappeared because the phase-separated region was no longer gelled after enough 
time was given for polymer relaxation.  
The reappeared macrovoids were getting smaller with an increase in air-gap length. The 
observation can be well reasoned by an increase in the amount of the intake water form the air gap. 
After the intake of water form the air gap, a region of phase separation formed from the outer 
surface down to the center of the dope. In this region, although further coarsening underwent in the 
subsequent immersion in the coagulation bath when the polymer-rich phase was not gelled, the 
nascent structure formed in the air gap was not subject to a dramatic change such as developing into 
macrovoids, evidenced by the fact that the reappeared macrovoids were only observed at a certain 
distance beneath the outer surface. The phase separated region grew thicker as the length of air gap 
increased, thus resulted in smaller macrovoids, which occurred further away from the outer surface. 
Therefore, macrovoids totally disappeared when the air gap was long enough to allow phase 
separation to take place, before the dope reached the coagulation bath, in the entire region where the 
morphology would be affected by the coagulation bath. The above mechanism gives a reasonable 
explanation of the resuppression of macrovoids. 
We proposed in above a mechanism to describe the suppression, reappearance, and 
resuppression of macrovoids with an increase in air-gap length: the suppression and reappearance 
were related to the so-called transient gel formed in a short time after phase separation, and the 
resuppression was resulted from the phase separation of the entire dope before it reached the 
coagulation bath. Because an increase in relative humidity indicates that less contact time with the 
humid air is needed to bring about phase separation in the air gap, it is not surprised to see the 
air-gap length required for the suppression and resuppression of macrovoids decreased with 
increasing relative humidity. 
 10
in the dope, resulted from the inhibition of water vapor absorption on the top surface of casting 
film. 
Conclusions 
PSf hollow fiber membranes were fabricated by a dry/wet spinning process. The morphology 
of the fibers was found to be strongly affected by air-gap length, temperature and ambient humidity. 
Macrovoids in the membranes disappeared, reappeared, and redisappeared with increasing air-gap 
length. The air-gap length required for the suppression and resuppression of macrovoids decreased 
with increasing relative humidity, temperature and the addition of PEG 200 additive. 
References  
[1] M. H. V. Mulder, Basic Principles of Membrane Technology, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 
London, 1996. 
[2] P. van de Witte, P.J. Dijkstra, J.W.A. van den Berg, B.J. Feijn, J. Membr. Sci. 117 (1996) 1. 
[3] H. C.Park, Y. P. Kim, H.Y. Kim, Y. S. Kang, J. Membr. Sci. 156 (1999) 169. 
[4] M. J. Han, D. Bhattacharyya, J. Membr. Sci. 89 (1995) 191. 
[5] H. Matsuyama, M. Teramoto, R. Nakatani, T. Maki, J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 74 (1999) 159. 
[6] H. Matsuyama, M. Teramoto, R. Nakatani, T. Maki, J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 74 (1999) 171. 
[7] J. S. Kang, K. Y. Kim, Y. M. Lee, J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 86 (2002) 1195. 
[8] J. S. Kang, K. Y. Kim, Y. M. Lee, J. Membr. Sci. 214 (2003) 311. 
[9] H. Caquineau, P. Menut, A. Deratani, and C. Dupuy, Poly. Eng. Sci, 43 (2003) 798. 
[10] V. P. Khare, A. R. Greenberg, W. B. Krantz, J. Membr. Sci. 258 (2005) 140. 
[11] H. J. Lee, B. Jung, Y. S. Kang, H. Lee, J. Membr. Sci. 245 (2004) 103. 
[12] T. S. Chung, X. Hu, J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 66(1997) 1067. 
[13] T. S Chung, Z. L. Xu, W. H. Lin, J. Appl. Polym. Sci.72(1999) 379. 
[14] J. J. Qin, J. Gu, T. S. Chung, J. Membr. Sci. 182 (2001) 57. 
[15] D. Wang, W. K. Teo, K. Li, J. Membr. Sci. 204 (2002) 247. 
[16] P. Menut, C. Pochat-Bohatier, A. Deratani, C. Dupuy, S. Guilbert, Desalination 145 (2002) 11. 
[17] K. Y. Lin, D. M. Wang, J. Y. Lai, Macromolecules, 35 (2002) 6697. 
[18] H. Tanaka, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter., 12 (2000) 207. 
[19] H. A. Tsai, C. Y. Kuo, J. H. Lin, D. M. Wang, J. Membr. Sci., 278 (2006) 390 
 12
   
(A) (B) (C) 
   
(D) (E) (F) 
Fig. 3 The cross-sectional morphologies of PSf (26 wt%)/NMP membranes which were exposed in 
90 % RH and 50 OC for various time periods before immersed into water bath. Time: (A) 0 
sec, (B) 10 sec, (C) 25 sec, (D) 40 sec, (E) 60 sec, (F) 120 sec. 
 
   
(A) (B) (C) 
   
(D) (E) (F) 
Fig. 4 The surface morphologies of PSf (26 wt%)/NMP membranes which were exposed in 90 % 
RH and 25 OC for various time periods before immersed into water bath. Time: (A) 0 sec, 
(B) 10 sec, (C) 25 sec, (D) 40 sec, (E) 60 sec, (F) 120 sec. 
 
 14
 
(A) (B) (C) (D) 
 
(E) (F) (G) (H) 
Fig. 7 The cross-sectional morphologies of PSf (26 wt%)/NMP hollow fiber membranes which 
were exposed in 90 % RH and 25 OC for various air gap before immersed into water bath. 
Air gap: (A) 0 cm, (B) 2.5 cm, (C) 5 cm, (D) 7.5 cm, (E) 10 cm, (F) 20 cm, (G) 30 cm, (H) 
40 cm. 
 
   
(A) (B) (C) 
   
(D) (E) (F) 
Fig. 8 The cross-sectional morphologies of PSf (26 wt%)/NMP hollow fiber membranes which 
were exposed in 90 % RH and 50 OC for various air gap before immersed into water bath. 
Air gap: (A) 0 cm, (B) 2.5 cm, (C) 5 cm, (D) 7.5 cm, (E) 10 cm, (F) 20 cm 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-253 -004 - 
計畫名稱 以蒸氣誘導式相分離程序紡製中空纖維膜之成膜機制與薄膜特性研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
蔡惠安 南亞技術學院材料與纖維系教授 
會議時間地點 2008年 6月 3日至 6日在中國上海 
會議名稱 第五屆東亞高分子會議（The 5 th East-Asian Polymer Conference, EAPC-5）
發表論文題目 Characterization and pervaporation performance of poly(thiol ester amide) thin-film composite membranes 
 
一、參加會議經過 
第五屆東亞高分子會議（The 5 th East-Asian Polymer Conference, EAPC-5）於 2008年 6
月 3日至 6日在中國上海舉辦。此項會議主要是提供與會人員針對高分子科學與技術之研究
心得與成果進行廣泛之研討。本屆會議是由上海華東理工大學（East China University of 
Science and Technology）主辦，與會人員包含有台灣、中國、日本、希臘、墨西哥、香港、
美國、法國、新加玻、波蘭、印度、葡萄牙、韓國、沙烏地阿拉伯、阿拉伯聯合大公國、英
國、加拿大、德國等 18個國家、地區之高分子界的專家學者。 
此次會議與本人一同参加會議的尚有本系之孫茂誠教授、化材系的胡蒨傑教授以及萬能
科大的許耀基教授。一行人於 6 月 2 日由桃園國際機場搭乘長榮航空公司 BR0801 班機飛至
澳門國際機場後轉上海航空公司 FM0818 航班飛抵上海浦東機場。主辦單位上海華東理工大
學並安排學生於機場指引至計程車乘車處，搭乘直接到達住宿飯店上海格藍雲天大酒店
（Grand Skylight Garden Hotel），隔日一早於飯店大廳辦理報到手續。經過四天會議後，於 6
月 7日搭乘計程車至上海浦東機場後搭乘上海航空公司 FM807航班至澳門國際機場轉長榮航
空公司 BR806班機返抵桃園國際機場。 
本屆會議主席為 Fosong Wang教授，開幕式以及前四場 Plenary lectures在華東理工大學
之逸夫樓舉行，其餘議程則在上海格藍雲天大酒店進行。 
整個議程共計邀請了五位 Plenary lectures，而 oral session則分為「Polymer synthesis and 
reactions」、「Polymer physics and polymer characterization」、「Functional polymers and theory and 
computation」、「Self-assembly of polymers」、「Biopolymers and biorelated polymers」與「Polymeric 
 
攜回資料：會議秩序冊、論文輯（含光碟） 
 
三、發表之論文 
Characterization and pervaporation performance of poly(thiol ester amide) thin-film 
composite membranes 
Hui-An Tsaia,b*, Shu-Hsien Huangb, Kueir-Rarn Leeb, Juin-Yih Laib 
a Department of Material and Fiber, Nanya Institute of Technology, Chung-Li 320, Taiwan 
b R&D Center for Membrane Technology, Chung Yuan University, Chung-Li 320, Taiwan 
Abstract 
In this study, the effect of acyl chloride chemical structure on the pervaporation performance of aqueous ethanol 
solution through the poly(thiol ester amide) thin-film composite (TFC) membranes prepared by 2-Aminoethanethiol 
(AETH) reacting with various acyl chlorides on the surfaces of the modified polyacrylonitrile (mPAN) membranes was 
investigated. ATR-FTIR, AFM and water contact angle were used to characterize the properties of membrane. For the 
pervaporation performance, the AETH-TMC/mPAN membrane has the lower permeation rate and higher water 
concentration in permeate than the AETH-SCC/mPAN one.  
 
1. Introduction 
Pervaporation is an attractive separation process for the mixtures. Polyamide is an excellent membrane material because 
of its high thermal stability, excellent mechanical strength and high resistance to organic solvents. Dense polyamide 
membranes show high selectivity in dehydration of aqueous alcohol solution while those have low permeation rate [1,2]. 
In order to promote the permeation rate without sacrificing the selectivity, composite membrane is a good choice. The 
interfacial polymerized TFC membranes are usually studied in RO [3-5] or NF [6-8], but there have been a few reports 
on pervaporation [9]. Therefore, in this study, two acyl chlorides including trimesoyl chloride (TMC), succinyl chloride 
(SCC) and aminothiol 2-Aminoethanethiol (AETH) are used as the monomers of the poly(thiol ester amide) active 
layers prepared on the modified polyacrylonitrile (mPAN) support membranes through the interfacial polymerization. 
The effect of the acyl chloride chemical structure on the pervaporation performances of 90 wt % aqueous ethanol 
solutions is investigated. Additionally, the effect of the surface roughness, hydrophilicity and thickness of the poly(thiol 
ester amide) active layers on the pervaporation performances are also investigated. 
 
2. Experimental 
2.1 Materials 
PAN polymer is supplied by the Tong-Hua synthesis fiber Co. Ltd. in Taiwan. NMP of reagent grade is used as solvent. 
TMC and AETH are purchased from TCI Co. SCC is purchased from Aldrich Co. 
2.3 Preparation of poly(thiol ester amide)TFC membranes 
The poly(thiol ester amide) TFC membrane is prepared by the interfacial polymerization. The mPAN membrane is 
immersed into 0.01 wt % aqueous aminothiol solution for 10 sec. The mPAN membrane soaked the aqueous aminothiol 
solution is contacted with 0.05 wt % organic acyl chloride solution for 10 sec to carry out the interfacial polymerization. 
Finally, the resulting poly(thiol ester amide) TFC membrane is washed in methanol after that is dried at the atmospheric 
temperature. 
 
3. Results and discussion 
3.1 Characterization of poly(thiol ester amide) TFC membranes 
The ATR-FTIR spectra of the mPAN and poly(thiol ester amide) TFC membranes are exhibited in Figure 1. Compared 
with the spectrum of mPAN, those of AETH-TMC/mPAN and AETH-SCC/mPAN membranes own three peaks which 
