The tetragonal distortion ∆ in the chalcopyrite latice defined as ∆=(2-c/a), where c and a
are the lattice parameters, arises from the difference in atomic interactions between the
Zn and Ge atoms towards the P atom [2].
ZnGeP2 is a most interesting nonlinear optical material for infrared spectral range
due to its unique set of optical properties [3] (wide potential transmission range of 0.7-13
µm, and high value of nonlinear susceptibility D36=75 pm/V). Several different growth
techniques have been used by researchers to obtain single crystals of ZnGeP2. The
problem of high-yield ZnGeP2 synthesis is related to the presence of two volatile
components (Zn and P) that can form thermally stable binary phases Zn3P2 (Tm=
1193°C) and ZnP2 (Tm= 1040°C).
Solid ZnGeP2 is less heat conductor than the liquid ZnGeP2. This makes the
crystallization heat removal through the crystal difficult. As a consequence, the
temperature gradient near the interface must be lower in the liquid phase than in the solid
one. For similar reasons high growth rates are thus unattainable. The most popular
ZnGeP2 growth methods are the Bridgman technique and the horizontal gradient freezing
technique [4-7]. To the best of our knowledge no data is available regarding the synthesis
and growth together in single step. Therefore, we have attempted to try the horizontal
gradient freezing techniques (HGF) to synthesize and growth together in single run of the
experiment to obtain the single crystals of ZGP.
Experimental
Powders of Zinc (Zn-99.999% purity), Germanium (Ge-99.9999% purity) and
Phosphorous (P-99.9999% purity) were used. The constituent material was synthesized
using 3-zone horizontal furnace. A mixture of predetermined amounts of the constituents
Zinc (Zn), Germanium (Ge) and Phosphorous (P) were placed in a boat and cylindrical
tube alternatively and then three times evacuated to ~ 2x10-2 torr and purged with
nitrogen and finally sealed at the pressure of ~ 2x10-2 torr. The tube length of 50 cm and
the wall thickness of 3mm was chosen to with stand the process pressure of ~ 60 atoms or
more. The boron nitride and silicon nitride coated quartz boat was used. The weighing
and loading of the constituent materials into the tube was done in nitrogen atmosphere
inside the glove box.
Synthesis of ZGP material
It is reported that the two-temperature method is not suitable for the growth of
D ~ P-1T3/2, (4)
Where P is the total pressure and T is the temperature. Thus, to prevent the Zn diffusion
the cold zone temperature had to be increased, the total pressure and the P flow rate
therewith being increased.
Results and discussion
The sealed ampoule was kept in the 3-zone resistance heating furnace for the
experiment. After loading the material into the furnace the temperature was increased
simultaneously of the cold and hot zone. The cold zone temperature was raised up to
520 0C and hot zone up to 1010 0C. After 1-2 hrs the P was completely reacted with the
melt of Zn and Ge. When we found that there was no phosphorous left in the tube, the
cold zone temperature was increased to 1010°C. Once ZnP2 is formed, the temperature of
cold zone and hot zone was further increased up to 1050 0C and 1060 0C respectively
sufficiently above the melting of ZnGeP2 (~10270C) to ensure the complete melting of
constituent materials. The mixture was kept at 1050 0C for a period of 10-12 hours to
promote the mixing of the constituent compounds and then it is allowed to cool just few
degrees above the melting of the ZGP. The small temperature gradient in the tube causes
some condensation of Zn and P at the end of the tube which helps to restrain the rate of
pressure increase. The amount of the Zn and P which condenses at the end of tube is
reproducible, so an extra amount of these constituents needs to be added with the initial
mixture to compensate the condensation loss and thereafter to control the chemical
composition of the end product. The growth was achieved by pulling the quartz tube with
the rate of 1.8mm/hr in the temperature gradient of 20C/cm until the entire charge was
solidified. Slow cooling after growth at the rate 5 0C/hr was used to prevent the cracking.
Finally, after finishing the experiment, we have found that the grown crystal quality is not
good. It was observed that the boron nitride coating of quartz boat is not good enough to
prevent the sticking of ZGP with boat at a high temperature. In our first experiment the
quartz boat was completely reacted with the material. In the next experiment we used
thick coating of boron nitride and found that the result is better than the previous one. But
still some bottom portion of the crystal got reacted with the quartz boat as can be seen in
fig. 1(b). We had also tried with silicon nitride coated quartz boat but the result is still not
Fig. 1: Photographs of ZGP crystals grown by three-zone HGF technique using different
crucible and coating: (a) lesser thickness of boron nitride coated quartz crucible, (b)
larger thickness of boron nitride coated quartz crucible, and (c) PBN coated graphite
crucible
(b)(a)
(c)
