式(4)顯示出meniscus的速度 ( )x t& 跟時間的平方根成
反比並且與常數 C成正比， 
      (cos cos )
2upper b t
h
w θ θ= +                (6) 
然而， 
   max cos cos192 b
w
C t
γ θ θμ= +               (7) 
其在最理想的流道高度 
   (cos cos )
4opt b t
w
h θ θ= +                    (8) 
流道的理想高度 正好是最大極限高度 的一
半，
opth upperh
1
2o p t u p p er
h h= 。 
    圖 2是常數C與流道高度h在不一樣的流道寬度
w 所得到的圖；在本研究中設定流道長度 =2 公分，
寬度 =100
l
w mμ ，在頂部疏水材料與底部親水材料的
平均接觸角分別為110 與 ，表面張力驅動的最大
極限高度
o 30o
26upperh mμ≈ 與最理想高度 13opth mμ≈ ，在
這些理想條件之下，採用平均流速 1500 msv μ −= 所得
的流率Q whv= 為 0.65 。 1nLs−
 
 圖 2. 不同流道寬度的 C:h 比 
    由不同時間所拍下的畫格還有液體前頭的位
置，吾人可計算得到速度。在不同流道高度量測到不
同時間的速度可證實理論結果；圖(3)是去離子水由
表面張力驅動在理想高度 =13
opth mμ 下產生最大流
率分別與高度 3至 21 mμ 比較，產生的結果與理論分
析非常一致；值得注意的是實驗量測到的速度與理論
得到的值在四秒時相差很小，這是因為根據直流道的
有效的理論分析，在四秒的時候流動開始減緩並做第
一次的轉彎。 
 
圖 3. 不同流道高度產生的速度比較 
 
 
2.2 使用不對稱交錯凹槽以增加波的運動和混合 
 2
色螢光球(red fluorescent sphere)，濃度是１
％ 且球的直徑是 0.93/w w mμ ；這兩種液體被引
進寬度 100 mμ 、長度 2 公分的的微流道並且除
了表面張力以外不使用任何驅動機制將液體輸
送至微流道出口，混合的過程可用顯微鏡外加一
各 CCD 鏡頭觀察得到，混合率可經由影像科技去
量測得到在不同區域面積裡面的螢光粒子數所
得到的比例 A%，裝置的混合效率定義為： 
  (1 50 50) 100%Z A= − − ×           (9) 
圖 7.(a)流場所在的流道是光滑的空流道，而流體從
入口到出口本質上都是層流的狀態，兩種液體的混合
僅經由分子擴散造成的交互作用。圖 7.(b)兩種液體
在非對稱性交錯凹槽式設計的流道中達成有效的混
合。 
 
圖 7. 在不同微流道設計下之混合效能比較 
 
3.2 混合效能的控制因子 
    為了確認影響混合的主要因子，吾人分別由三種
參數來比較其混合效果：(1)高度比 d:h   (2) 凹槽
與流道之夾角α、β  (3) 凹槽長度比 a:b:c，將結
構設定高度為 h=3μm、流道寬度 w=100μm、凹槽寬度
e=60μm、同邊相鄰凹槽間距 s=250μm、不同邊交錯凹
槽間距 1s =125μm。 
(1) 高度比 
  首先，吾人改變高度比d:h從 1:1 至 2:1，並設定
凹槽角度α=β=450與凹槽長度比為 7:0:3；圖 8.是微流
道中不同位置所量測到的混合效率的結果。 
 
圖 8. 不同高度比的混合效率比較 
在比較小的高度比 =1:1 的混合效率有些微改
善，在高度比超過 1.6:1 時混合變的更有效率，接著
高度比繼續增加，混合現象也逐漸增加，當高度比達
2:1 時的混合效率將接近 100%，效果比空流道的 22%
已經有顯著的提昇。超過極限高度比 2:1 之後，流體
反而沒有跨進凹槽，形成彎曲的流道從凹槽邊繞
過，如同層流一般，如圖 9.。另外，總高度
:d h
d h+
不能超過 13μm，否則將無法流經所有的凹槽；需要
注意的是具不對稱交錯凹槽的流道的總高度要小於
沒有凹槽的空流道。 
 
圖 9. d:h 為 3:1 之流場圖 
(2) 凹槽長度比 
    再來，吾人改變凹槽長度比a:b:c，並固定高度
比 2:1，凹槽與流道夾角α、β為 450，圖 10.是在流
道不同位置下混合的效率Z的結果比較。 
 4
 
圖 13. 最理想尺寸下之不同位置流場圖 
圖 13(a)是在入口附近的流場，是屬於層流；當通過
前面幾各非對稱交錯凹槽後，流體漸漸的開始旋轉，
微粒也開始分散，如圖 13(ｂ)；流體在離入口 5mm
之位置已達到 45%的混合，如圖 13(ｃ)；最後在離入
口 15mm 之處幾乎達到完全的混合。經過這樣完整的
說明，本裝置可以在 40 秒內從流道的一端輸送至另
一端並且有效的混合；更精確地來說，在 40 秒中能
完全混合的體積流量為:6nL( =3μm 100μm 
0.02m, =6μm) 
h w l× × ×
× d
 
四、concluding remarks 
    總的來說，本研究提出微流道的微混合器有下列
幾種特色，僅用表面張力制動無需其他外加能量就能
驅動流體，為了減少摩擦力流道設計成無邊之微流
道，且液體被限制在底部鋪以親水性及頂部鋪以疏水
性材料間流動；在理論分析與實驗的驗證下得到最理
想的流道高度，且以表面張力驅動僅需要一半的流道
高度；在親水性基材的底部仔細的設計非對稱性交錯
的凹槽可增加流動不穩定以提高混合的效果，交錯凹
槽的間距約與不穩定流動產生的波長大小相同；為了
達在出口前達到完全混合，吾人找到最理想的條件：
凹槽的高度比 、凹槽與流道之夾角
、凹槽橫向長度比 a:b:c＝7:0:3，且非
對稱性凹槽間的間隙ｂ為零，能讓液體不直接流過而
產生流體不穩定現象，夾角 45
: 2 :d h = 1
:d h w
45α β= = o
0是最佳的角度能產生
側向力去旋轉微粒、造成流線彎曲並且改變層流為渦
流，本裝置在 10 秒內就能將a few nanoliter的液體
混合，舉例來說，為了完全混合最理想的高度比為
=6μm：3μm，流道寬度設計為 =100μm，在
間隔 40 秒內的流量為 6nL；而且整各裝置都很容易經
由先進的平面的平板印刷製程技術製作得到，由以上
這些突出的特點提供了現今在微流道使用表面張力
驅動的微混合器更有效的技術，且此一技術在今年已
申請獲得美國之專利。 
 
五、致謝 
本計劃承蒙國科會研究計畫 NSC-94-2212-E-002 
-075-的鼎力支持，始得研究方能順利進行，在此特
表感謝。研究其間感謝張建成教授給予一切數值解析
的幫助，方能順利完成，在此一併感謝。 
 
六、參考文獻 
[1]  LaVan D A, Lynn D M and Langer R 2002 Nat. Rev. Drug 
Discov. 1 77–84 
[2]  Saltzman W M 2001 Drug Delivery: Engineering 
Principles for Drug Delivery (London: Oxford) 
[3]  Service R F 1998 LABS ON A CHIP: coming soon: 
the pocket DNA sequencer Science 282 399–401 
[4]  Burns M A et al 1998 An integrated nanoliter DNA 
analysis device Science 282 484–7 
[5]  Mazumder S K, Acharya K, Haynes C L, Williams R Jr, 
Spakovsky M R V, Nelson D J, Rancruel D F, Hartvigsen 
J and Gemmen R S 2004 Solid-oxide-fuel-cell 
performance and durability: resolution of the effects of 
power- conditioning systems and application loads 
IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 19 1263–78 
[6]  Karnik S V, Hatalis M K and Kothare M V 2003 Towards a 
Palladium micro-membrane for the water gas shift 
reaction: microfabrication approach and hydrogen 
purification results J. Microelectromech. Syst. 12 93–100 
[7]  Stroock A D, Dertinger S K W, Ajdari A, Mezic I 
and Stone H A 2002 Chaotic mixer for 
microchannels Science 295 647–51 
[8]  Stroock A D, Dertinger S K W, Whitesides G M and  
     Ajdari A 2002 Patterning flows using grooved surfaces  
     Anal. Chem.  74 5306–12 
 [9]  Stroock A D and Whitesides G M 2003 Controlling 
flows in microchannels with patterned surface charge 
and topography Acc. Chem. Res. 36 597–604 
  [10]  Stone H A, Stroock A D and Ajdari A 2004 Engineering 
flows in small devices: microfluidics toward a 
lab-on-a-chip Annu. Rev. Fluid Mech. 36 381–411 
  [11] Chu et al., United States Patent, US 7,059,351 
 6
推廣及運用的價值 
在微小之液體流動裝置中，相較於習知之液體驅動裝置，本發明所
提供之表面張力傳導液體之裝置不但可在不必外接其他動力之狀
況下驅動流體，還能有效節省微機電裝置或生化檢測儀器設備之配
置空間，更能進一步有效控制液體之流動參數與混合狀況，並且能
保存生化檢體之真實原貌。緣此，本發明不但將有助於突破習之技
術之盲點，更有助於未來微機電與生化科技術之再造，實為一兼具
產業利用與學術研究價值之發明。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 

A capillary pumping nanoliter mixer
miniaturization and integration. In the literature, there are
passive methods [14–16] and active methods [17, 18] proposed
to enhance mixing in a microchannel. Active methods require
external devices for improving mixing, while passive methods
for mixing need no energy input but may still require a pump
or pressure head to drive the fluids through the channel.
In the present study, the capillarity force is the only
mechanism for driving the fluids through the microchannel.
Being proportional to the contact length, the capillarity
force employed as the driving mechanism on the micro-
scale is advantageous to many other forces. It is clear
that pressure force scales down quadratically and the inertia
force decreases cubically with decreasing linear dimension.
According to [19, 20], magnetic forces scale down from
quadratically to quartically and the electrostatic forces scale
down from linearly to cubically with decreasing linear
dimension. Moreover, unlike magnetic or electrostatic forces
which must be applied externally, capillarity is a surface
property and is ideal for pumping fluids passively. However,
previous applications [11, 12, 21, 22] of capillarity force in
micro-fabrication require external mechanisms for controlling
the capillarity. For example, the external mechanism could be
thermal-capillary [11], electromagnetic [12], electro-kinetic
[21] or a syringe pump [22].
The key concept of making sole use of the surface tension
force is to increase the surface-to-volume ratio by reducing the
depth of the channel. But the reduction cannot be continued
ad infinitum as the viscous frictional force also increases.
Another important concept is the reduction of the flow
resistance between the fluid and the walls of the channel. They
can be achieved by fabricating the microchannel to have no
sidewalls; the idea was proposed sometime ago by the present
authors [23, 24] and others [22, 25]. Figure 1 shows the current
mixer for microchannels. Unlike in [7] where the liquid flow
is confined by two-sided hydrophilic stripes, the flow channel
here is defined by a bottom hydrophilic stripe (silicon dioxide)
deposited on a hydrophobic substrate (Teflon) and a fully top-
covered hydrophobic substrate, leaving both sides in direct
contact with air. The design is cost effective because we
do not have to use sidewalls, and there is no need to align
hydrophilic stripes on the opposite substrates (as there is only
one hydrophilic stripe on the bottom substrate). Once the fluid
is pipetted into the entrance, the capillary pumping generated
by the liquid meniscus at the hydrophilic interface will drag
the fluid into the microchannel. It is remarked here that the
top cover cannot be entirely hydrophilic because then once the
fluid is introduced to the entrance, it will spread over and fill
in the space between the top and the bottom substrates.
2. Basic principle
2.1. Theory for a capillary pump without cavities
For straight microchannels, Bouaidat et al [25] recently
proposed an approximate theory to model the motion of the
viscous liquid meniscus driven by capillarity. They made
several key approximations for the majority of flow which is
measured far away from the entrance and end regions:
(i) the lateral cross-section (of width w and height h) of the
liquid column is rectangular,
(b) a a' Teflon
(hydrophilic)
2SiO
(hydrophobic)
(c) b b' 
(a)
air
Fluid 1
Fluid 2
Teflon coated glass
reservoir
Asymmetric staggered grooved cavities
Glass
Figure 1. The design of the microchannel. The flow channel is
defined by a bottom hydrophilic (SiO2) stripe deposited on a
hydrophobic substrate and a fully top-covered hydrophobic substrate
(Teflon), leaving both sides in direct contact with air. Besides, in
order to increase the mixing efficiency, asymmetric staggered
grooved cavities are arranged at the bottom of the channel to twist
liquids to produce three-dimensional flow automatically. The cutting
lines aa′ and bb′ are cross-sections perpendicular and parallel to the
microchannels. (a) The schematic of the device and the sideview
from the cutting lines aa′ and bb′ are shown in (b) and (c). θt is the
top contact angle and θb is the bottom contact angle (not to scale).
(ii) the area of the front meniscus is independent of the
position of the meniscus,
(iii) the viscous flow behaviors can be described by the
Poiseuille flow with a uniform shear stress τ ≈ 6 µv¯/h
where µ is the viscosity of the liquid and v¯ is the average
flow velocity, and
(iv) the average flow velocity v¯ is equal to the speed of the
meniscus x˙ where x is the distance measured downstream
from the entrance.
In addition, let ρ denote the density of the fluid, µ the dynamic
viscosity, γ the surface tension and θb and θt the contact
angles at the bottom and top interfaces, respectively. Then
the equation of motion for the meniscus for α ≡ x2 is
α¨ + Aα˙ − B = 0. (1)
Here, we have two-dimensional constants
A ≡ 12µ
ρh2
and B ≡ 2[w(cos θb + cos θt ) − 2h]γ
ρhw
,
(2)
which are, respectively, the viscosity-related coefficient and
the capillarity-related coefficient. By imposing the initial
conditions x(0) = 0 and x˙(0) = 0 on equation (1), the
temporal evolution of the meniscus is given by
x(t) ≡ √α =
√
B
A2
(At + e−At − 1). (3)
1359
A capillary pumping nanoliter mixer
(a) (b)
Figure 3. A comparison of the velocity for different channel heights with fixed channel width w = 100 µm. The contact angles for the top
hydrophobic and bottom hydrophilic interfaces are about 110◦ and 30◦, respectively.
s1
s
s
w
b
c
a
Glass
d h
Side View
Top View
e
β
α
Figure 4. The various geometric parameters of the microchannel, where the channel height is denoted by h, the channel width by w, the
depth of the cavities by d, the length of the cavities along the channel by e, the spacing between two neighboring cavities on the side by s
and the spacing between two successive staggered grooved cavities by s1 on the opposite sides of the channel. In addition, a, b and c are the
length scales transverse to the channel and α and β denote the sloping angles of the cavities on two opposite sides, respectively.
to the channel a, b and c, where a and c are, respectively, the
transverse widths of the cavities on the different sides of the
channel and b = w − a − c is the clearance for the liquids
passing between the cavities on the opposite sides.
In view of the theory of section 2.1, the total channel
height htot = h + d should not exceed the optimal height
hopt, and it is noted that for the design of a power-free mixer,
we must choose shallower channels (h  w) to have strong
capillarity to drive the flow and deeper cavities (d > h) to
introduce transverse mixing by generating shear instabilities.
The cavity depth d cannot be too large nor too small relative
to the channel height h. Figure 5 shows a comparison of
the advancing front at different depth d of the cavities. As the
fluid passes over the cavity, the surface tension first drags the
fluid downward. If the cavity is too deep, the fluid would
experience a channel of larger height and cannot pass through
it. If the cavity depth d is less than a critical value, the
surface tension will be enough to drag the fluid downward
to the bottom and continue the motion of the liquid; however,
the cavities cannot be too shallow because then there is little
effect in mixing enhancement. Each encounter of two liquid
species over a cavity causes a swirl in the cavity which in
turn twists the flow in the main channel, and after many
d:h=3:1
d:h=2:1
h
d
(b)
(a) e=60 µm
Figure 5. A comparison of the advancing front at different depths
of cavities: (a) d:h = 3:1 and (b) d:h = 2:1.
twists, this eventually leads to the development of three-
dimensional shear flow instabilities in the flow. As shown
in figure 5, when the fluids pass over the cavities, the oblique
orientation of the cavity to the main stream generates shear
flow (vorticity) with alternative signs along the channel. The
flow will eventually become a significant wavy motion with
the wavelength approximately equal to the spacing between
the neighboring cavities s. Ideally, the asymmetric cavities
on the opposite sides can generate two parallel, in-phase wave
motions; these in-phase wave motions are now achieved by
placing the cavities in the midst of the neighboring cavities on
the opposite sides.
1361
A capillary pumping nanoliter mixer
Figure 8. A comparison of the mixing rate for different height ratios
d:h with fixed channel height h = 3 µm and width w = 100 µm;
sloping angles α = β = 45◦.
Figure 9. The flow field in deep cavity with d:h = 3:1.
Depth height ratio. First of all, we vary the height ratio d:h
from 1:1 to 2:1 with the sloping angles fixed at α = 45◦,
β = 45◦ and the transverse length ratio at a:b:c = 7:0:3.
Figure 8 shows the results of the mixing efficiency measured
at different locations along the microchannel. At a smaller
height ratio d:h = 1:1, the mixing efficiency improves a little,
but becomes more significant as the ratio exceeds 1.6:1. The
mixing efficiency Z increases monotonically with increasing
d:h until it reaches 2:1 at which the efficiency is nearly 100%,
compared to 22% for the case without staggered grooved
cavities at the exit of the microchannel. Beyond the critical
ratio d:h = 2:1 the fluid flow would become laminar by
forming a meandering passage in the part of the microchannel
without entering the etched staggered grooved cavities
(figure 9). On the other hand, the total length h + d of the
channel height h and the cavity depth d cannot exceed 13 µm
for the flow to pass over all the cavities. It is noted that
the maximum total height h+d for the channel with staggered
grooved cavities would be less than that for the channel without
staggered grooved cavities.
Transverse length ratio. Next, we vary the transverse length
scales a:b:c with the fixed height ratio 2:1 and the angle
α = 45◦ (β = 45◦). Figure 10 shows the results of
mixing efficiency Z measured at different locations along the
microchannel. For the case of symmetric transverse cavity
lengths a:b:c = 4:2:4, the mixing efficiency already shows a
better value than the case without staggered grooved cavities.
Figure 10. A comparison of the mixing rate for different transverse
length ratios a:b:c with fixed channel height h = 3 µm, width w =
100 µm, cavity depth d = 6 µm and sloping angles α = β = 45◦.
But the mixing efficiency can be enhanced significantly by
placing asymmetric transverse lengths of cavities (a > c) for
which the sum a + c is made large but cannot exceed the
channel width w. The best transverse length ratio we obtain
for the most conspicuous mixing is a:b:c = 7:0:3 at which
the clearance of a straight fluid passage b = w − a − c is
zero. However, it is noted that if the sum of the transverse
cavity lengths a+c is larger than the channel width w, the fluid
flow would be completely blocked and there is no through-flow
in the microchannel. Figure 11 shows snapshots of the flow
field for different transverse length ratios a:b:c, captured at the
location 10 mm downstream of the channel entrance. As we
can see from these photographs, the streamlines are relatively
flat at a:b:c = 4:2:4 or 5:2:3. But at the higher level of
asymmetry with a:b:c = 6:2:2 and 7:0:3, the streamlines near
the interface of the two liquid species form a wavy pattern,
which is enormously different from those in a channel without
the design of asymmetric staggered grooved cavities. The fluid
particles begin to rotate as it passes over each cavity; this twists
the streamlines to form a wavy pattern. The many cavities
on different sides enhance this instability by the asymmetric
staggered grooved arrangement. The best arrangement of the
staggered grooves should be in phase with the wavelength
of instability. For example, the measured wavelength of the
instability from figure 11(d) is about 220 µm which is close
to the spacing s = 250 µm of the two neighboring cavities on
the same side.
Sloping angle of the cavities. Another critical aspect is
to examine the effect of the sloping angles α and β. For
comparison, we fix the height ratio at d:h = 2:1 and the
transverse length ratio at a:b:c = 7:0:3. Figure 12 shows the
results of mixing efficiency measured at different locations
along the microchannel. It is first observed that the effect
for enhancing is minimal if the cavities are placed with its
transverse edges perpendicular to the mean flow direction. At
the angle α = 90◦ (β = 90◦), although the fluids enter into and
stride across the cavities yet this does not produce a transverse
force to affect rotation of the fluid particles. The flow field
does not change much from what it is for a microchannel
1363
A capillary pumping nanoliter mixer
alter the laminar flow pattern to be vortical. The device mixes
liquid species at the rate of a few nanoliters within tens of
seconds. For example, at the optimal ratio d:h = 6 µm:3 µm
for complete mixing, given the channel width w = 100 µm,
the flow rate is 6 nL at the interval of 40 s; this qualifies the
current device as a nanoliter mixer for microchannels. All
these salient features render the presently proposed capillary
pumping nanoliter mixer for microchannels cost effective as
the entire device is easily amenable to miniaturization by the
modern fabrication technique of planar lithography.
Acknowledgments
The work was supported in part by the National Science
Council of the Republic of China (Taiwan) under contracts
NSC 93-2212-E-002-041 and 93-2212-E-002-037. The
authors would also like to thank Professor T Y Wu of
Caltech for his constant encouragement and helpful comments/
discussion on an earlier draft of the paper.
References
[1] LaVan D A, Lynn D M and Langer R 2002 Nat. Rev. Drug
Discov. 1 77–84
[2] Saltzman W M 2001 Drug Delivery: Engineering Principles
for Drug Delivery (London: Oxford)
[3] Service R F 1998 LABS ON A CHIP: coming soon: the
pocket DNA sequencer Science 282 399–401
[4] Burns M A et al 1998 An integrated nanoliter DNA analysis
device Science 282 484–7
[5] Mazumder S K, Acharya K, Haynes C L, Williams R Jr,
Spakovsky M R V, Nelson D J, Rancruel D F, Hartvigsen J
and Gemmen R S 2004 Solid-oxide-fuel-cell performance
and durability: resolution of the effects of power-
conditioning systems and application loads
IEEE Trans. Power Electron. 19 1263–78
[6] Karnik S V, Hatalis M K and Kothare M V 2003 Towards a
Palladium micro-membrane for the water gas shift reaction:
microfabrication approach and hydrogen purification results
J. Microelectromech. Syst. 12 93–100
[7] Stroock A D, Dertinger S K W, Ajdari A, Mezic I and
Stone H A 2002 Chaotic mixer for microchannels
Science 295 647–51
[8] Stroock A D, Dertinger S K W, Whitesides G M and Ajdari A
2002 Patterning flows using grooved surfaces Anal. Chem.
74 5306–12
[9] Stroock A D and Whitesides G M 2003 Controlling flows in
microchannels with patterned surface charge and
topography Acc. Chem. Res. 36 597–604
[10] Stone H A, Stroock A D and Ajdari A 2004 Engineering flows
in small devices: microfluidics toward a lab-on-a-chip
Annu. Rev. Fluid Mech. 36 381–411
[11] Kataoka D E and Troian S M 1999 Patterning liquid flow on
the microscopic scale Nature 402 794–7
[12] Yun K S, Cho I J, Bu J U, Kim C J and Yoon E 2002 A
surface-tension driven micropump for low-voltage and
low-power operations J. Microelectromech. Syst.
11 454–61
[13] Washizu M 1998 Electrostatic actuation of liquid droplets for
microreactor application IEEE Trans. Ind. 34 732–7
[14] Koch M, Chatelain D, Evans A G R and Brunnschweiler A
1998 Two simple micromixers based on silicon
J. Micromech. Microeng. 8 123–6
[15] Voldman J, Gray M L and Schmidt M A 2000 An
integrated liquid mixer/valve J. Microelectromech.
Syst. 9 295–302
[16] Simonnet C and Groisman A 2005 Chaotic mixing in a steady
flow in a microchannel Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 134501
[17] Ryu K S, Shaikh K, Goluch E, Fan Z and Liu C 2004 Micro
magnetic stir-bar mixer integrated with parylene
microfluidic channels Lab Chip 4 608–13
[18] Sasaki N, Kitamori T and Kim H B 2006 AC electroosmotic
micromixer for chemical processing in a microchannel
Lab Chip 6 550–4
[19] Trimmer W S N 1989 Microrobots and micromechanical
systems Sensors Actuators 19 267–87
[20] Cho H J and Ahn C H 2002 A bidirectional magnetic
microactuator using electroplated permanent magnet arrays
J. Microelectromech. Syst. 11 78–84
[21] Gallardo B S, Gupta V K, Eagerton F D, Jong L I, Craig V S,
Shah R R and Abbott N L 1999 Electrochemical principles
for active control of liquids on submillimeter scales
Science 283 57–60
[22] Zhao B, Moore J S and Beebe D J 2001 Surface-directed
liquid flow inside microchannels Science 291 1023–26
[23] Chu C C, Yao L Y, Chang C C, Kuo S C and Tseng F G 2000
Surface tension driven flow inside top-bottom constrained
microchannels Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. 45 186
[24] Chen C F, Kuo S C, Chu C C and Tseng F G 2003 A
power-free liquid driven method for micro mixing
application Proc. IEEE MEMS Conf. (Kyoto, Japan)
pp 100–3
[25] Bouaidat S, Hansen O, Bruus H, Berendsen C,
Bau-Madsen N K, Thomsen P, Wolff A and Jonsmann J
2005 Surface-directed capillary system: theory,
experiments and applications Lab Chip 5 827–36
1365
a liquid plug (downstream). Fig. 1 shows
an example of both control approaches
in ACSs, with an example of upstream
flow control in Fig. 1b. At the Y-junction
shown, the flow will only proceed when
both top channels are filled with liquid,
and it can thus be regarded as a fluidic
AND gate.9 Liquid flow automatically
proceeds in the upstream hydrophilic
channels until the widening part is
reached where the liquid stops as the
capillary pressure becomes zero. At this
meniscus position the two bracketed
terms in eqn (1) cancel and so-called
meniscus or contact-line pinning occurs
(Fig. 1a).5,6 The fluid flow can now only
resume once liquid has arrived from the
second neighbouring channel, leading to
a merging of the menisci and again a
negative capillary pressure. Fig. 1c shows
an example of downstream flow control
in an ACS, namely a downstream nar-
rowed channel section. As soon as the
liquid supply from the rear is exhausted,
the rear meniscus stops at the point
where the local capillary pressure is more
negative than at the front meniscus.
Liquid flow is now resumed only by
renewed delivery of liquid from the rear.
Flow control in hydrophobic channel
networks is also possible (e.g., by local
narrowing) and was first described by
McNeely et al. and later by Ahn et al.7,8
A clear disadvantage of hydrophobic
networks is, that an external pressure
source, suction or actuation must be
applied, necessitating additional equip-
ment. Ref. 9 reviews several such actua-
tion methods.
Capillary flow in test strips
Though ‘test strip’ might not sound very
impressive, these devices form the back-
bone of POC diagnostics and actually
allow quite complicated assays to be
performed. In the past 20 years test
strips, also called lateral flow assays,
have indeed been widely employed for
POC assays like pregnancy tests, HIV
diagnosis and tests for drugs of abuse.1
After introduction of a sample drop on
the sample pad of such devices, capillary
forces maintain the flow in a micro-
porous matrix transporting and proces-
sing the sample. Processes such as
filtration, chromatographic separation,
dissolution of lines of dried chemicals,
diffusion, reaction and accumulation of
reaction products thereby occur on the
way.10,11 Complex tests like sandwich
immunoassays are also performed in this
format. Flow rates and incubation times
can be influenced by tailoring device
geometry and local hydrophobicity.
This automatic behaviour and easy pro-
grammability of capillarity-driven systems
is a great advantage and is also used to
great advantage in micromachined POC
devices, as we will show below.
Capillary flow in LOC POC
applications
The inclusion of microfluidic channels in
test strips increases control of the fluidic
properties. In 1997 van Damme et al.
from Organon Teknica developed POC
devices in which they smartly combined
what they called the ‘fluidic elements’ of
microfluidic channels, adsorbers and
membranes.12 Due to the programmabi-
lity regarding e.g., automatic timing, an
ELISA could be successfully imple-
mented. In a more recent development
Juncker et al. from IBM Research
reported in 2002 the construction of
what they called autonomous capillary
microfluidic systems (ACS) (Fig. 2).3
All liquid transport in the ACS of
Juncker et al. is by capillarity-induced
pressure.3 Instead of relying on adsorber
pads (like in test strips) to provide con-
stant and long-lasting suction pressure,
the device contains a capillary pump
section providing a constant suction
pressure. Since the main fluidic resistance
resides in two narrow constrictions
around the reaction chamber, a constant
flow rate is generated in the latter. The
device thus presents a fluidic analogue of
an electrical current source. Directly at
the service port a capillary retention
valve (Fig. 1c) gives downstream flow
control. Subsequent deliveries of fluid
quantities to the service port allow com-
plex assays like sandwich fluorescence
immunoassays to be performed in this
device.13 In the latter case evaporation
was employed as an additional driving
force to maintain a low volume fluid flow
rate for longer periods. The accurate
patterning of arrays of different reagents
(e.g., antibodies) in the reaction chamber
of an ACS by microfluidics allows
the screening of multiple analytes in
parallel.4 Though it presents less experi-
mental details, a recent paper shows that
Bayer and Boehringer Ingelheim are also
active in this field.6 A device similar to an
ACS but of a more simple design was
furthermore recently applied for a
C-reactive protein immunoassay.14
Capillary flow in LOC systems
other than for POC
Apart from POC systems, capillary
forces are also increasingly used for
liquid propulsion in other LOC systems.
Several typical LOC functionalities like
juxtaposition of parallel flow streams,
mixing and sample injection have
recently been implemented by the use of
capillary forces alone. Kim et al. demon-
strated a flow system with two parallel
streams driven by capillary forces
(Fig. 3).15 The device uses the upstream
flow control element shown in Fig. 1b,
with an additional local tuning of the
hydrophilicity at the merging area. By
tailoring the hydrodynamic resistance of
the inlet channels, the relative width of
the parallel streams could be changed.
The inclusion of a pressure balancer
between reservoirs prevented backflow
(Fig. 3). Chen et al. showed a micro-
fluidic mixer driven by capillary pump-
ing. Liquid is spontaneously imbibed
between two glass plates, of which one
has an asymmetric groove pattern, caus-
ing mixing.16
There is elegance in the simple single-
step capillary electrophoresis system
demonstrated by Ono and Fujii, which
relies on capillary force for sample and
polymer solution loading into a device
for DNA separation.17 Fig. 4 shows
Fig. 1 Flow control in autonomous capillary
systems. (a) A widening of the channel, pinning
the meniscus (see eqn (1)); (b) upstream flow
control: a Y-junction or liquid AND gate,
where the liquid becomes pinned if only one
feed channel is filled, but flow proceeds if both
channels are filled; (c) downstream flow con-
trol: pinning of the liquid rear at a channel
constriction (capillary retention valve).
1406 | Lab Chip, 2006, 6, 1405–1408 This journal is  The Royal Society of Chemistry 2006
