2spatial-frequency resolutions matches the
characteristics of human visual system [6].
Many wavelet based image coders such as
embedded zero-tree wavelets (EZW) [7], set
partitioning in hierarchical trees (SPIHT) [8],
morphological representation of wavelet data
(MRWD) [9], group testing for wavelets
(GTW) [10] and modulated wavelet subband
image coding (MWSIC) [11] have been
proposed with a great success.
It is noted that both EZW and SPIHT
take advantage of the following hypothesis. If
a wavelet coefficient at the coarse resolution
is insignificant with respect to a given
threshold, then all the corresponding wavelet
coefficients at the finer resolutions are likely
to be insignificant with respect to the same
threshold. Consequently, these insignificant
wavelet coefficients can be efficiently coded
as a set of insignificant coefficients by using
a single code symbol: zero-tree. The SPIHT
algorithm has been modified for encoding
large images in constrained memory
environments [12], which is one of the
important requirements in the JPEG 2000
standard [13,14]. A vector extension of
SPIHT, called VSPIHT [15], has been
proposed to further improve the coding
performance. It groups the wavelet
coefficients of grayscale images into vectors
and then performs successive refinement
vector quantization in the set partitioning
framework. Moreover, for color images,
VSPIHT is able to exploit both the
cross-subband dependency of each spectral
component and the inter-component
redundancy to improve on the scalar SPIHT.
For video applications, a 3-D extension of
SPIHT has been proposed [16]. It provides
many advantages including scalability in both
time and space for progressive transmission,
precise rate control, and low complexity.
For natural images with textures
composed mainly of the middle and high
frequency components, however, zero trees
of insignificant wavelet coefficients are rare,
and therefore the compression performances
of both EZW and SPIHT are usually
unacceptable. A different, more appropriate
coding strategy is therefore desirable for the
aforesaid images, where the insignificant
wavelet coefficients are found to be scattered
as well as isolated in the tree representation.
In this research work, a simple tree classifier
is proposed to group the wavelet trees of
images into two classes based on the
amplitude distributions; and a hybrid, image
coding system is thus developed by coding
each class of trees with appropriate procedure
to improve the compression performance.
II. Overview of SPIHT
In wavelet domain, the input image is
decomposed into subbands with orientation
selectivity. Wavelet coefficients taken from
all the subbands of the same orientation are
rearranged to form the wavelet trees. The tree
hierarchy is based on the resolution level.
The wavelet coefficients at coarse resolution
are called parent nodes, each of which has
four children nodes at the next finer
resolution. Tree roots are at the coarsest
resolution, and tree leaves are at the finest
resolution. Many natural images are
composed of large portions of homogeneous
regions, textures, together with a small
portion of edges, which are typically the low,
middle and high frequency components,
respectively. The significant wavelet
coefficients of the homogeneous regions are
usually at the coarser resolutions, i.e., in the
lower frequency subbands, while those near
the noticeable edges are usually clustered in
the higher frequency subbands with strong
similarities across subbands. If a non-leave
node is insignificant, then all the descendants
at the finer resolutions are likely to be
insignificant. This cross-subband dependency
can be exploited to improve the image
compression performance.
The SPIHT algorithm has received a lot
of attention since its introduction for image
compression in 1996. It contains two passes:
sorting pass and refinement pass, which can
be combined to form a single scan pass.
Three symbols: zero tree (ZT), insignificant
pixel (IP) and significant pixel (SP) are used
to code the wavelet tree structure of images,
which are stored in their respective lists: list
of insignificant sets (LIS), list of insignificant
pixels (LIP) and list of significant pixels
(LSP). Below is the encoding algorithm
4in the lower frequency subbands, the MVQ
approach seems promising for coding
wavelet trees with many nodes of
significance in the higher frequency
subbands.
IV. Experimental Results
The proposed hybrid coding system is
evaluated on natural 256x256 grayscale
images. A set of nine training images is
utilized to determine the partitions of the
high frequency wavelet trees into small
vectors, and to construct the MVQ
codebooks for encoding these vectors. The
partition strategy is as follows. For each of
the three categories of high frequency
wavelet trees, the standard deviation values
are uniformly quantized with nine
quantization levels. All the wavelet
coefficients that have the same standard
deviation level are grouped into a single
vector. Consequently, the high frequency
wavelet trees are partitioned into nine small
vectors. The test 256x256 grayscale images:
Mandrill, Bridge, and Lena, which represent
natural images with a large amount of high
frequency, middle frequency, and low
frequency components, respectively, are
outside the training set. The compression
performance is compared with the original
SPIHT. The compression rate is measured in
bpp. The distortion is measured by peak
signal to noise ration (PSNR). The linear
phase, biorthogonal wavelet with
9/7-coefficient filter set is utilized. The
number of wavelet decomposition levels is 4.
The tree classification threshold trL is 3.
The weighting factors are empirically
obtained by   501 . with 11  . The
infinite norm is used to compute the norms of
the residual quantization error vectors. The
maximum wavelet coefficient magnitude is
halved and then used for the initial SPIHT
threshold.
Fig. 2 shows the rate-distortion curves.
The horizontal and vertical axes are the
compression rates (in bpp) and PSNR values
(in dB), respectively. For Lena image that is
relatively smooth and most of the significant
wavelet coefficients are in the lower
frequency subbands, only a small number of
wavelet trees are classified into the high
frequency class. The performances of the
hybrid coder and SPIHT coder are
comparable, as expected. For the texture-rich
images, e.g., Bridge and Mandrill that
contain a large amount of significant wavelet
coefficients in the middle and high frequency
subbands, the hybrid coder is superior to the
SPIHT algorithm in general. As indicated by
the simulation results, the hybrid coder
outperforms SPIHT by 0.38 dB at 0.5 bpp for
Bridge image, by 0.74 dB at 0.5 bpp for
Mandrill image.
It has been shown that when the
textured images are encoded, 2-D DWT is
unlikely to yield many large zero trees due to
lack of homogeneous regions. Thus, the
advantage of encoding zero trees of
insignificant wavelet coefficients by using
SPIHT is weakened. On the other hand, the
high frequency wavelet trees can be
efficiently sought out by using the proposed
tree classifier, and then can be encoded by
using MVQ to improve the overall
compression performance.
V. 計畫成果
Wavelet transform provides an efficient
multi-resolution analysis. It decomposes
images into subbands with orientation
selectivity as well as joint space-frequency
localization. Many efficient wavelet coders,
e.g. EZW and its improved version: SPIHT
have been developed by taking advantage of
the following hypothesis: if a wavelet
coefficient is insignificant with respect to a
given threshold, then all the corresponding
wavelet coefficients at the finer resolutions
are likely to be insignificant with respect to
the same threshold. However, natural images
are often composed of textures with rapid
variations in grayscales. For such images,
there are many significant wavelet
coefficients scattered in the higher frequency
subbands. Consequently, the coding
performances of both EZW and SPIHT are
usually not adequate since groups of
insignificant wavelet coefficients in the tree
structure are very rare. A hybrid image coder
