(二)中英文摘要 
中文摘要 
近年來由於激烈的競爭，半導體產業走入微利時代，產業的經營備覺艱辛。因此新的
作業策略 (Operations Strategy)，例如協同運作 (Collaborative Operation)、供應鏈因而崛起，
提供了半導體產業一個新的營運契機。半導體的供應鏈可分為設計 (Design)、前段 
(Fabrication) 與後段 (Assembly and testing)。對半導體後段產業而言，個廠的單打獨鬥已甚
難生存，因此協同運作無異是在艱困的環境中，開啟了合作共存及永續經營之契機。不過，
要順利進行協同運作，一個協同運作的排程系統 (Collaborative Production Scheduling 
System, CPPS) 是必備的。由於過去之研究多偏重於協同設計上(Collaborative Design)，有
關協同生產、排程系統之研究付之闕如，因此本研究致力於此項議題之探討。 
於本研究中，將提出一個系統化的方法，從系統建模  (Modeling)到實作 
(Implementation) 可一氣喝成。該方法包含了一套階層式的程序，可由上而下進行系統建
模，並由下而上進行實作。本研究中，將該程序應用在半導體後段廠的協同生產上，一個
協同生產排程系統便可順利發展出來，以供垂直整合之應用。本研究中使用述詞/擬轉網路 
(Predicate/Transition Net) 當作工具建模，經階層化的擴展後，一個低階的述詞/擬轉網路可
以獲得。將此低階的述詞/擬轉網路使用邏輯語言程式表達後，並加入專家知識，一個專家
排程系統就可完成。這個專家排程系統包含使用者介面 (User Interface, UI)，知識庫 
(Knowledge Base, KB) 及模擬模型 (Simulation Model, SM) 三個模組。系統的求解目標 
(Goal)，可彈性的加入並調整，以排出一個可行解 (Feasible solution)，本研究中並以案例說
明協同生產排程之產生及其可用性。 
關鍵詞：協同生產排程系統、虛擬企業、半導體後段、垂直協同整合 
Abstract 
While the fierce competition impels the market into a low-profit environment for 
semiconductor backend, collaborative operation emerges as a new operational strategic for 
semiconductor backend firms to be more survivable. To make the collaborative operation 
feasible, a collaborative scheduling platform is required. In this study, a systematic hierarchy 
approach is proposed for modeling and implementing a Collaborative Production Scheduling 
System (CPSS) applying to semiconductor backend collaborative environment. The systematic 
hierarchical approach is a procedure consists of both structured top-down modeling and 
bottom-up implementation steps. From the structured top-down modeling steps, a Pr/Tr 
(Predicate/Transition) net model is finally derived. Predicate logic rules are used to implement 
the derived Pr/Tr net in a bottom-up direction. After implementing the Pr/Tr net by using 
predicate logic rules, an expert scheduling system which is composed of Model (simulation 
Model), GUI (Graphical User Interface) and KB (Knowledge Base) modules can be developed. 
Goals are adaptable and easily incorporated into the system for exploring a feasible solution. 
Collaborative schedules can be generated for production and are illustrated by an example in the 
study.  
Keywords：Collaborative production scheduling system, Virtual enterprise, Semiconductor 
backend, Vertical collaborative integration 
I 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
tardiness or maximum wafer movements [10-14]. But these measures do not closely or directly 
link to an enterprise’s overall financial vision. As stated by Fisher [15], the key difficulties of 
the non-financial system were its inability to dollarize the amount of improvement in the 
non-financial measurements and the connection between improvements in the non-financial 
measures with profits was unclear. According to the research of Laitinen [16], both financial 
and non-financial measures are important, but small technology firms appear to emphasize the 
importance of company-level profitability. There were some researches about ABC 
(Activity-based costing) [17-18], ABC used technology to bring new visibility to cost behavior. 
Therefore, Salafatinos [19] suggested ABC could be adapted to provide profitability 
information. It seems financial measure, such as profit, is more meaningful than non-financial 
measure for cooperation especially in a collaborative environment. 
About the research methodologies, Toba [2] divided the current practical scheduling 
researches into three categories of approach: (1) dispatching approach, (2) optimization based 
on mathematical programming, and (3) optimization based on heuristic searches and artificial 
intelligence. Different approaches are proposed from different point of views, such as Agliari et 
al. [8] proposed an analytical technique, based on the Markov Chain Theory, to analyze the 
behavior of some common-practice dispatching rules. Zha [20] proposed a novel knowledge 
intensive multi-agent cooperative/collaborative framework for concurrent intelligent and 
assembly design. Kuo and Hwang [21] proposed a prototype of a real-time support system in 
the scheduling of production system. Toba [2] proposed a new segment-based approach for a 
real-time reactive rescheduling method. Newnes et al. [6] used IDEF0 (Integrated computer 
aided manufacturing DEFinition) technique to structured top-down description of functional 
process in manufacturing environment. Janneck and Naedele [22] used Codesign, an integated 
petri net modeling environment, to model the die bonder process. Schmidt [23] presented an 
Object-oriented modeling approach applying to production scheduling system. It seems that 
object-oriented method, structured top-down analysis and collaborative framework promise the 
future research direction. And in recent years, the use of simulation-based finite capacity 
planning and scheduling software has increased dramatically in the semiconductor industry 
[24].  
This study aims to propose a systematic approach, which is composed of structured 
top-down modeling and bottom-up implementation steps, to help in developing an expert 
scheduling system for semiconductor IC package firms to conduct production scheduling in a 
collaborative manufacturing environment. In this study, definition, types of collaborative 
operation and some key issues for horizontal collaboration are discussed in section 2. A 
collaborative scheduling model developed by Pr/Tr net is proposed in section 3. The 
implementation and the system structure for the expert scheduling system are presented in 
section 4. An example case is illustrated in section 5 to demonstrate the potential application 
capability. Finally, conclusion and future research possibilities are presented in section 6. 
 
 
 
 
2 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
[16] E.K. Laitinen, "A dynamic performance measurement system: evidence from small Finnish 
technology companies", Scand. Journal of Mgmt, 18, pp.65-99, 2002.  
[17] N.S. Ong, "Manufacturing cost estimation for PCB assembly: An activity-based approach", 
International Journal of Production Economics, 38, pp.159-172, 1995. 
[18] T. Pirttila and P. Hautaniemi, "Activity-based costing and distribution logistics 
management”, International Journal of Production Economics, 41, pp.327-333, 1995. 
[19] C. Salafatinos, "Modeling resource supply and demand: Expanding the utility of ABC”, 
International Journal of Production Economics, 43, pp.47-57, 1996. 
[20] X.F. Zha, “A knowledge intensive multi-agent framework for cooperative/collaborative 
design modeling and decision support of assemblies”, Knowledge-Based System, 15, 
pp.493-506, 2002. 
[21] W.H. Kuo and S.L. Hwang, “A prototype of a real-time support system in the scheduling 
of production systems”, International Journal of Industrial Ergonomics, 21, pp.133-143, 
1998. 
[22] J.W. Janneck and M. Naedele, “Modeling a Die Bonder with Pteti Nets: A Case Study”, 
IEEE Transactions on semiconductor manufacturing. Vol. 11, No.3, pp. 405-409, August 
1998.  
[23] B.G. Schmidt, “Modeling production scheduling system”, International Journal of 
Production Economics, 46-47, pp.109-118, 1996. 
[24] M. Thompson, “Using Simulation-based Finite Capacity Planning and Scheduling 
Software to Improve Cycle Time in Front End Operation”, IEEE/SEMI Advanced 
Semiconductor Manufacturing Conference, pp. 131-135, 1995.  
[25] A. Koestler, “The Ghost in the Machine”, Arkana Books, London, 1989.  
[26] B. Huang, H. Gou, W. Liu, Y. Li, M. Xie, ”A framework for virtual enterprise control with 
the holonic manufacturing paradigm”, Computers in Industry, 49, pp.299-310, 2002. 
[27] J.J. Genrich, ”Predicate/Transition Nets”, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 205, pp. 
207-247, 1987.  
[28] T. Murata, "Petri nets: Properties, Analysis and Application", Proceedings of the IEEE, 
77(4), 1989.  
[29] A. Giordana and L. Saitta, ”Modeling Production Rules by Means of Predicate/Transition 
Networks”, Information Science, Vol. 35, pp.1-41, 1985. 
[30] T. Murata and D. Zhang, “A Predicate/Transition Net Model for Parallel Interpretation of 
Logic Programming”, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, Vol. 14, No.4 
pp.481-497, April 1988. 
[31] H.J. Genrich and K. Lautenbach, ”System Modelling with High-Level Petri Net”, 
Theoretical Computer Science, 13, pp.109-136, 1986. 
 
(四) 研究方法 
1. 模擬:由於半導體產業製程複雜，傳統的解析模式(Analytical model)無法掌握所
有變數，因此現行之研究，很多都使用模擬法，以求可行解，而非最佳解。因此 
4 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
