 中文摘要 
本計畫發展雙面非球面微透鏡陣列，結合儀科中心的光學分析技術來設計光學元件、
精密鑽石微加工技術來製作模仁、精密的檢測設備與技術，再加上本研究群塑膠微成形技
術之研發，獲取最佳的設計參數與量產技術。本計畫以微壓印成形，經由成形元件的光學
性質檢測，進行最佳化設計與分析。在模仁部分以碳化鎢或 STAVAX等超硬合金為基材
鍍上無電解鎳，再以鑽石車削無電解鎳表面而得到所需的鏡面，組裝模具並進行微壓印成
形的研究。量測自由曲面透鏡塑膠成品的外形輪廓，探討不同製程參數對光學元件品質的
影響，探討此製程的複製性，並進行最佳化分析。主要目標是成形技術之建立，因此只採
用一種塑膠材料 PMMA。 
 
關鍵字: 微壓印成形、微透鏡、最佳化 
 
Abstract 
The goal of this project is to develop a non-periodic variable-curvature micro-lens array. 
The objective of this project is to investigate the replication technology for these plastic optical 
elements. Free-form elements were designed with laser parameter and ray-tracing method. 
Precision diamond turning was applied to fabricate the mold inserts. Hot embossing was 
investigated for their replication ability. The hot embossed optical elements were found to have 
good replication. The optical quality was also satisfactory. 
 
Keywords：hot embossing, micro-lens, optimization 
 
一、前言 
第一年度的計畫目標主要是針對高斯光束分佈的光場進行均化器設計，以期能運用於
微形雷射投影機光機引擎之均化光源。設計之微型雷射投影機系統預計使用設計之微透鏡
陣列、固態半導體之紅、綠、藍三色雷射光束，搭配兩片分光片與微型顯示面板，如圖一
所示。使用設計之微透鏡陣列膜片可在短距離內將紅、綠、藍三色雷射光束均化成均勻之
照明光源，配合分光片位置之安排可合成為一均勻照明之白光而成為微顯示器所需之光
源。本計畫將以微透鏡陣列(Micro Lens Array，MLA)方式達成光束均化效果。 
 
圖一、微型雷射投影機光路示意圖 
在微透鏡陣列均化器的設計方面，通常是搭配一聚焦透鏡，並於其焦平面可得到一均
勻的照明分佈或能量分佈。傳統上的使用可分為成像系統與非成像系統[1]，成像系統是使
用單一個透鏡陣列搭配一球面鏡如圖二，而非成像系統是使用雙片透鏡陣列搭配一球面透
鏡如圖三。在目前許多應用中的透鏡陣列其單一透鏡尺寸約在數毫米至數厘米等級左右，
因此模擬時以幾何光學追跡方式即可達到非常準確的模擬結果，僅在各個透鏡的交接處會
產生些許的繞射效應[2]，但不致造成太大的差異。。因此將透過利用光束與元件間的繞射
效應設計能於短距離形成一均化光場，並省去傳統微透鏡陣列使用時必須搭配之聚焦透鏡
以節省所需之光學元件數目、體積，如圖四所示，以達成使用於微型投影機之目標。 
 型為均勻能量分佈的方形光源，並作為微型化、以雷射光束微光源的投影機背光源。單片
雙面光學膜片其表面結構為在透明塑膠薄膜基板的兩面各自壓印上球面微透鏡狀陣列，並
相對位移單一微透鏡對角線長度的一半，如圖六所示，可大幅降低組裝時對準之困難度。
在此計畫中所設計之膜片規格為：透鏡陣列週期為 120μm、單一微透鏡陣列曲率為
306μm、光束整型傳播距離為 60mm、整型後光場為 12mm見方之均勻照明分佈。圖七所
示為單一微透鏡之規格。 
   
週期相對位移
 
圖六、單片雙面微透鏡陣列薄膜及示意圖 
 
圖七、單一微透鏡之示意圖及規格 
 
二、實驗設備與步驟 
2.1實驗設備 
本計畫使用自行研發設計的熱壓成形機，而規格為： 
(1) 最大熱壓力為 10噸。 
(2) 加熱最大面積 400mm×400mm，最大開模行程 350mm。 
2.2模具 
2.2.1熱壓成形模具 
模具上附有加熱與冷卻系統，如圖八，加熱由加熱棒加熱，最高為可達到 400℃，冷
卻由冰水機循環冷卻，最低溫可達 5℃。由模具加熱塑膠材料，塑膠材料可為板材、塑膠
顆粒、塑膠粉末皆可成形，加熱至熱壓溫度(依材料不同有所差異)，施加壓力進行熱壓，
熱壓完畢後，進行冷卻階段，待成品溫度低於頂出溫度，在執行開模的階段將成品取出。 
 
 
圖八、熱壓成形模具組合圖 
2.2.2模仁量測 
球面微透鏡陣列的製作方式為使用超精密加工機進行模仁加工，圖九所示為加工完成
之模仁。以白光干涉儀量測模仁的微結構輪廓，圖十是使用白光干涉儀量測模仁的單一微
  
 
圖十三、量測模仁的兩個微透鏡的水平線結果 
2.3成品品質量測 
經熱壓所獲得的成形品，以本校微機電中心或成大微奈米中心的掃瞄式電子顯微鏡
(SEM)、光學顯微鏡(OM)、原子力顯微鏡(AFM)和薄膜厚度測量儀(α-step)四種檢測設備來
觀察其成品輪廓和尺寸： 
(a)微結構外形觀察：以光學顯微鏡(OM)和掃描式電子顯微鏡(SEM)對模仁與成形品的外形
作觀察，經由 SEM和 OM的觀察，可以得到成形品的微結構之實際外觀與成形性，然後
再比較是否與模仁上的微結構一致。 
(b)殘留應力檢測：塑膠材料在加工過程產生的殘留應力，本研究將以本實驗室所自製之應
力偏光儀對成型品的殘留應力進行檢測分析。 
 
三、結果與討論 
3.1表面輪廓量測 
先製造厚度 1.63mm~2.47mm之間的五個微透鏡陣列元件，再以白光干涉儀量測微透
鏡陣列元件，如圖十四。如同模仁的微透鏡球面底部中心有缺陷，微透鏡陣列的球面頂部
中心有相似的缺陷，其餘部位大致複製性良好。然後，再試製造基材厚度 0.47mm、微透
鏡厚度 0.56 mm的微透鏡陣列元件，如圖十五。白光干涉儀量測結果如圖十六。 
 
圖十四、白光干涉儀量測微透鏡陣列元件 
 
圖十五、基材厚度 0.47mm、微透鏡厚度 0.56 mm的微透鏡陣列元件 
 
厚度： Lens 0.56 mm 
厚度： Substrate 0.47mm 
 
 
 (a)                              (b) 
 
圖十九、當距離為(a)30mm 和(b)300mm時，投影幕顯示亮點 
0 200 400 600 800 1000
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1 0
1
0
0
2
0
0
3
0
0
4
0
0
5
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
.2
0
.4
0
.6
0
.81
 
圖二十、微透鏡陣列產生之方形照明分佈 
 
四、結論與自評 
光學設計和分析由子計畫一負責，模仁精密加工和檢測由子計畫二負責。模具設計與
成形實驗，由本計畫負責。本計畫以微射出成形、微射壓成形與微壓印成形分別進行實驗，
探討這三種製程的可行性。以子計畫一所設計的單片雙面之微透鏡陣列結構，設計這三種
成形模具。模仁加工子計畫二來加工微結構，在模仁部分以碳化鎢或 STAVAX 等超硬合
金為基材鍍上無電解鎳，再以鑽石車削無電解鎳表面而得到所需的微透鏡陣列結構。模
仁，加以檢測後，置入本計畫所設計製造的三種成形模具，進行微壓印成形的實驗，探討
不同製程參數對光學性質的影響，並進行最佳化分析。本年度的主要目標是這種製程的成
形技術與分析方法之建立，因此只採用一種塑膠材料 PMMA。 
參與本計畫的研究生經由此研究過程，培養出規劃實驗、分析實驗結果與解決問題之
能力，對於目前正在撰寫畢業論文上有相當大之助益。 
 
五、致謝 
本研究承蒙國科會計畫補助，計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-151-025。 
 
參考文獻 
1. Fred M. Dickey, Scott C. Holswade, David L. Shealy, “Laser Beam Shaping Applications”, 
Taylor & Francis Group (2006). 
2. Christophe Kopp, Lionel Ravel, Patrick Meyrueis, “Efficient beamshaper homogenizer design 
combining diffractive optical element, microlens array and random phase plate”, Pure 
Appl.Opt.1, 389-403 (1999). 
8 mm 
78 mm 
會議名稱: 2009 IEEE International Conference on Control and Automation 
會議時間: 98年 12月 9日~ 12月 11日 
會議地點: 紐西蘭基督城(Christchurch, New Zealand) 
參加人員: 國立高雄應用科技大學 模具工程系 吳政憲主任 
經費補助: 國科會專題研究計畫 
發表論文:  
C. J. Lin, C. H. Wu and C. C. Hwang, “Tracking control of a motor-piezo XY 
gantry using a dual servo loop based on ILC and GA” 
 
補充說明： 
     原本報名此次會議，也於八月時繳了美金 650元整，相當於新台幣 21737元整（請參
考信用卡帳單）。但後來因為 H1N1新流感疫情影響無法出國開會，依國科會函（如附件），
將繳交之註冊費檢據核銷。 
 
 
coarse stage consists of the XY gantry mechanism, two DC 
brushless servo motors, a motor driver, and a DSP motion 
card. The servo motors are used to actuate the coarse stage via 
ball screws. The coarse stage covers the long range traveling; 
the residual micro error of the coarse motion is compensated 
by a micro stage to make the XY gantry achieve a micro 
motion. A novel biaxial elastic mechanism, which is actuated 
by two PEA with positioning feedback, is designed and 
applied to achieve precision micro positioning tasks by a 
real-time control. The first PEA provides the X-axis motion 
via an inner stage and the second PEA makes the outer stage 
move along the direction of Y-axis. The design of the 
proposed XY micro motion stage by the PEA actuation will 
be described in Section 3.  
PEA has many advantages such as high stiffness, fast 
frequency response, high positioning precision, high 
electrical mechanical coupling efficiency, and small size. 
However, its main disadvantageous characteristic is the 
nonlinearity of hysteresis. Hysteresis effect between the 
displacement and the electric field usually causes the loss in 
precision of positioning and it is not a differentiable and 
one-to-one nonlinear mapping but nonlinearity with local 
memory, so that it causes positioning errors which critically 
limit the operating speed and precision of PEAs. Nonlinear 
hysteresis effects can be corrected using charge control; 
however, it may lead to drift and saturation problems as well 
as reduce the operating range greatly. The other solution is to 
establish the models of the hysteresis nonlinearity and 
improve the precision with inverse model feed-forward 
compensation. Several mathematical models have been 
proposed to describe the behavior of hysteresis, such as 
Bouc–Wen [5-6], Maxwell slip model, Preisach methods [7], 
etc. Bouc–Wen model is one of widely used models for 
hysteretic systems, because it can capture many commonly 
observed types of hysteretic cycles which match the behavior 
of a wide class of hysteretic systems. Zhang et al. [8] 
employed the genetic algorithm (GA) to identify hysteresis 
parameters of Bouc-Wen model and presented numerical 
simulations to demonstrate the identification method is 
feasible. However, it is difficult to identify via the 
experimental datum in their method because the selected 
fitness function includes the term of differentiation of 
acceleration. In this study, a GA based feedforward control is 
studied to achieve precision tracking tasks of the biaxial 
micro stage. GA is used to identify the parameters of the 
Bouc-Wen model and then the model is used in the 
feedforward control. 
Although the PEA can provide micro motion, but the 
traveling range of the PEA is limited and very small. The 
residue error of the coarse motion should be in a permissible 
range, or the traveling range of the micro stage is not enough. 
Therefore, the positioning precision of the coarse stage 
should be constrained in a specific range that the micro stage 
can provide. However, due to the undesired backlash of the 
ballscrew mechanism, the XY gantry’s tracking errors may be 
too large to achieve a permissible accuracy. To compensate 
the imprecision of this XY gantry to constrain the residue 
error, an iterative learning control (ILC) is studied to make 
the coarse stage achieve the permissible accuracy. The 
original idea of ILC was due to Uchiyama and he introduced 
ILC to improve the performance of robot motion.[9] Later, 
Park and Bien generalized the previous result to PID-type 
ILC algorithm and showed that the performance can be 
improved by adding an integral term.[10] In this study, a 
PID-type law of ILC are implemented and studied to make 
the gantry stage obtain the permissible precision.  
II. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION 
A. Dual servo loop using a gantry stage with a PEA micro 
stage 
In the construction of a gantry motion system, different 
kinds of motors can be used to actuate the stage, depending 
on the precision and cost requirements. For high-precision 
applications, the DC PM linear motor (PMLM) is the best 
choice of actuation for the gantry stage due to their direct 
drive features and mechanical simplicity, but it is very 
expensive. However, the architecture using the DC motor is 
the most popular and cost effective for most industry 
applications. For the systems with the actuation of DC motor, 
ball-screw mechanisms are usually used to transfer the 
motion from rotation to translation. However, its undesired 
backlash degrades the precision of the positioning system. In 
this paper, a novel PEA actuated micro stage is proposed to 
improve the XY gantry stage, which is actuated by the DC 
servo motors via the ball-screw mechanisms. Therefore, the 
proposed motor-piezoelectric XY gantry consists of two 
systems; the XY gantry system, which covers the long range 
up to an accuracy of a few micrometers to provide long-travel 
applications, and the PEA actuated micro stage, which covers 
the small range of sub-micrometer to compensate the local 
errors to achieve high-precision positioning. To have a long 
stroke with ultra precision for this system, the combination of 
the coarse XY gantry stage and the fine PEA micro stage is 
necessary and important. In this paper, a dual servo control 
loop algorithm based on two embedded DSPs has been 
implemented to link the coarse and micro stages; Fig. 1 
describes the control block diagram of the dual servo loop. 
 Fig. 1. Block diagram of the dual servo loop for the 
positioning system 
B. Design of flexure-based mechanism for fine motion 
 The gantry system is able to accomplish long stoke task 
1099
 
 
III. MAIN RESULTS 
 
A. Identify the parameters of FBM and PEA 
To identify the parameters kbm ,,  of the FBM, the 
impulse response method is usually used to find the natural 
frequency and the damping ratio. From the results of the 
impulse response, the damping ratio and natural frequency 
were obtained as: nω =3610.5rad/s，ξ =0.121. Then, Eq. (1) 
can be obtained as follows. 
  )(2 2 hUd
m
kxxx PZTnn −⋅=++ ωξω &&&           (2) 
  For a PEA, the relation between actuating force and applied 
voltage is not linear but a nonlinear hysteresis model. To 
establish the hysteresis model, measuring the relation 
between the displacements and applied voltages is necessary 
to obtain the parameters of Bouc-Wen model. To obtain the 
hysteretic loop, the triangle waveform with the amplitude of 
100(V) is applied to the X-axis PEA. Via the measurement of 
the optical encoders, the hysteretic loop of the PEA can be 
measured. Although the Preisach model was usually used to 
describe the hysteresis exactly; however, the relation was 
established according to the experimental data, so that it may 
cause errors when the reference input is unmatched. To solve 
this problem, the dynamic of hysteresis should be established 
by the nonlinear differential equations. The Bouc-Wen model 
was applied to describe the nonlinearity of the PEA; the 
modeling of the piezo-actuated stage was described in Eq. (1). 
Because the parameters γβα ,,  of Eq. (1) determine the 
hysteretic loop’ magnitude and shape, the identification of the 
parameters is very important. However, the parameters 
γβα ,,  of the Bouc-Wen model are hard to be found by trials. 
In this study, the genetic algorithm is studied to obtain the 
optimal set of the parameters γβα ,,  and it is formulated as 
the following optimal problem with LMI constraints. 
   ∑
=
−
=
n
i
h
r n
ixixxFMinimize
1
2
,,
))()(()(
βα
         (3) 
05.00
05.00
5.00
)(2: 2
≤≤
≤≤
≤≤
−−=
−⋅⋅=++
γ
β
α
γβα
ωξω
hUhUUdh
hUd
m
kxxxtosubject PZTnn
&&&&
&&&
 
, where F(x) is the objective function; the )(ixh  represents 
the experimental data of the hysteric loop via the 
measurement at the ith sampling time; )(ix  are the calculated 
data via Bouc-Wen model at the ith sampling time; n  is the 
total sampling number from the experimental results; U is the 
applied voltage and d  is the piezoelectric constant, which is 
the ratio of the displacement to the applied voltage; the 
parameters γβα ,,  are the parameters of Bouc-Wen model, 
which are constrained due to the physical limits. In this 
optimal problem, the objective function )(xF  represents the 
RMSE between the experimental results and the simulation 
data. If the value of )(xF  can be much smaller, then the 
estimated hysteresis model will be more accurate.  
For this study, a population of GA is composed of a large 
set of chromosomes (set of parameters in the Bouc-Wen 
model) and then the tracking results of this population are 
then compared according to an objective function, or called 
fitness functions, to determine the fitness of a particular 
chromosome. The set of fitness values are used to sort the 
population, eliminate the badly-fitted individuals, mate the 
best-fitted chromosomes, and then propagate the “good” 
genes (parameter combinations) to the upcoming generation. 
These processes are repeated until reaching a certain 
contouring error threshold or a number of generations. RCGA 
searches the better solution over generations in these steps 
until the converging index is satisfied. In RCGA, the 
crossover fraction plays the dominant role of all genetic 
operators. Therefore, the RCGA with the crossover fraction 
of 0.1~0.9 were discussed in the following case study, where 
the fraction of individuals in the subpopulation that migrate is 
limited by this fraction 0.02 and its interval is 20. According 
to the comparisons with the crossover fraction of 0.1~0.9 
over the generations and the best crossover rate is 0.3 at the 
60th generation.  
Therefore, all optimal parameters of the PEA micro stage 
will be used to implement the feed-forward control for the 
following tracking tasks.  From the above study, the optimal 
parameters of the Bouc-Wen model have been identified, so 
that the hysteresis term can be estimated. To compensate the 
nonlinearity due to the hysteresis of the PEA, it is necessary 
to design a feedforward controller to compensate this 
nonlinear term. If the reference input is )(txref , then the 
applied voltage can be obtained as follows according to the 
piezoelectric constant d.  
d
tx
tU ref
)(
)( =                    (4) 
When the system has no feedforward control, the actual 
displacement )(tx can be described as follows due to the 
hysteresis effect.  
)()()( thtUdtx −⋅=                                   (5) 
, where d  is the ratio of the ideal displacement with respect 
to the applied voltage; however, the actual displacement is 
)(tx  if the hysteresis is taken into consideration. As a result, 
if the hysteresis term )(th  can be estimated by the above 
Bouc-Wen model and then the feedforward compensating 
based on the Bouc-Wen model can be designed as follows.  
d
thtx
tU refdfeedforwar
)(ˆ)(
)(
+
=
                      (6) 
, where )(ˆ th  is the nominal hysteresis obtained by the 
Bouc-Wen model, whose parameters are identified by RCGA. 
However, there still exists errors due to the non-symmetry of 
hysteresis or the modeling uncertainties and the external 
1101
