 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
區域效應對快速熱退火處理之四元合金氮化銦鋁鎵的光電特性研究 ( I ) 
Study the effect of localization on the optical and electrical properties of the 
RTA-treated InxAlyGa1-x-yN quaternary alloys ( I ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-------------------------------------------------------------- 
目錄 
一. 摘要………………………… 3 
二. 前言………………………… 3 
三. 實驗...……………………… 4 
四. 結果與討論………………… 4 
五. 參考文獻…………………… 7 
六. 計畫成果自評……………… 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
計畫編號：NSC 98－2221－E－272－005－ 
執行期間：98年 8月 1日至 99年 7月 31日 
計畫主持人：胡勝耀 
計畫參與人員：陽士宏 海洋大學電機工程研究所學生 
 4
InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN film. As the temperature is increased, the band gap position of the 
InAlGaN-related PC spectra exhibits anomalous behavior (decrease-increase-decrease). To obtain 
quantitative characteristics of the localized states in this investigated sample, we calculate the 
parameter, which is a measure of the dispersion in the localized energy. The parameter was 
determined in the context of Eliseev model [5-7], which was shown to describe satisfactorily the 
experimental temperature dependence of the energy peak positions in this structure. The optical 
absorption edge in InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN film is determined by the exciton states. The long 
wavelength tail of exciton absorption of this film shows exponential dependence on photon 
energy in accordance with the Urbach’s rule due to the exciton-phonon and exciton-impurity 
interactions [5-7]. 
 
三. 實驗 
A sample of InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN film was grown by low pressure metal organic chemical 
vapor deposition (MOCVD). The thickness of 0.225 µm InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN film was grown on 
the 2 µm thick GaN/Al2O3 substrate by the low pressure MOCVD with around 25 nm AlN buffer 
layer to avoid cracking in the structure. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was employed 
to estimate the content of In to be 0.01 for x and Al to be 0.11 for y, respectively. For the RTA 
treatment, the as-grown InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN sample was divided into four small pieces. Three of 
the samples were annealing treated for 30 sec at 400, 600, and 800 °C. The annealing effects on 
the luminescence properties are studied by PL and TRPL techniques. Absorption-edge spectra 
were recorded by applying a constant current source with light illumination on the top, far from 
the contact area using the standard method of PC experimentation technique. The light source 
was a Xe lamp (PTI LPS-220) filtered by a monochromator (SpectraPro 300i). The maximum 
size of InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN film was provided with two Au wire contacts which show good ohmic 
current-voltage characteristics. One 5 mW/cm2 microchip laser operating at 266 nm was used as 
an excitation source and detected using a cooled GaAs photomultiplier tube. Phase sensitive 
detection instrument (Stanford Research SR530) was used to measure the PC and PL signals, 
respectively at several temperatures between 10 and 300 K with a temperature stability of 0.5 K 
or better under a completely computerized system. 
 
四. 結果與討論 
Measurements of the PC and PL were made in the energy range between 3.1 and 3.65 eV at 
10 and 300 K, respectively. The PC spectra were normalized to the spectral responsivity of the 
light source. The PC intensity increases from ~ 3.3 eV to ~ 3.45 eV and then decreases in the 
higher photon energy region, a photoresponse corresponding to electron-hole pair creation at the 
band gap of InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN is observed. The PC spectrum for InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN is shown 
in the bottom of Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 for 10 and 300 K, respectively and compared with the particular 
PL spectrum. The PC intensity at 10 K shows a rapid exponential decrease from the band gap 
down to approximately 3.3 eV, which is probably related to an Urbach tail region in the density of 
states below the GaN conduction band edge [8-10]. Below 3.4 eV, the PC intensity gets 
 6
estimated fast lifetimes as a function of emission energy for the as-grown InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN 
film are shown as the open circles in the Fig. 5. The lifetime of PL decay decreases as the 
emission energy increases, which is attributed to the carrier localization.  
From the PC and PL spectra at 10 and 300 K, respectively, it is observed that the PC 
intensity at lower temperature shows a rapid exponential decrease from the band gap down to 
approximately 3.3 eV, which is probably related to an Urbach tail region in the density of states 
below the GaN conduction band edge. Moreover, the PC intensity gets dominated by the deep 
impurity level absorption when the energy position is below 3.4 eV. The emission energy 
dependence of lifetime for the as-grown InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN film has been estimated and 
determined. 
 
  
Fig. 1  Measurements of the PC and PL 
were made in the energy range between 3.1 
and 3.65 eV at 10 K. 
Fig. 2  Measurements of the PC and PL 
were made in the energy range between 3.1 
and 3.65 eV at 300 K. 
 
  
Fig. 3  The band gap as a function of 
temperature for InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN thin film 
(open squares). The solid curve is least 
squares fit to Eliseev model. 
Fig. 4  The 12 K PL spectra of the 
InxAlyGa1-x-yN/GaN samples (a) as-grown 
and annealed at (b) 400, (c) 600, and (d) 800 
°C. 
 
 8
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
z S. Y. Hu, et al., “Anomalous Luminescence Behavior in the InAlGaN Thin Film,” in J. of 
Alloys and Compounds, Revised. 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
藉由熱退火之方式來進一步提升光電導衰減實驗技巧和數據分析的方法
並了解在樣品製作的過程當中對於不同元素(In、Al、Ga、N)的摻雜濃度會產
生何種程度的淺能階存在，也深入探討此四元合金材料晶格與晶格的不匹配
所產生的晶體缺陷如何會造成缺陷能階的形成；因為半導體化合物中加入適
當的雜質可以增加非平衡載子的壽命以及提高光電導的靈敏度，因此對於四
元化合物 InAlGaN 缺陷能階的研究是有其必要性的。如果可以確實提升
InAlGaN 四元合金材料的光電特性將有機會研發出高效率低價位的發光元件
進而推展到整個國家社會。 
 
 
2Nitrides on Si and its Application for AM-MEE, Growth, Structural and Optical Properties of
GaN/AlN Nanowire Heterostructures, GaN Power Switching Devices for Automotive Applications,
MOCVD Growth and Characterization of AlInN-based Schottky Ultraviolet Photodiodes on AlN
template。上述演講者也確實將其研究成果表達得很清楚，同時我也對他們問了一些氮化物材料
成長條件與元件的特性分析等問題。
我所發表的論文題目是 “Urbach tail studies of In0.01Al0.11Ga0.88N/GaN film”。許多研究學者看
了我的研究結果後，對與我所使用的光學特性分析方式非常有興趣，並與我討論了一些二元材
料 InN、AlN、GaN、三元材料 InAlN、AlGaN 與四元材料 InAlGaN 之間的光學與電學特性之差
異性且建議了一些改善的條件。他們一致表示四元材料的結構是非常複雜的，所以在樣品的成
長過程中需要注意很多細節。他們也很贊同我的論點“以光電特性的分析結果來修正氮化物樣品
成長條件進而提升氮化物元件的光電特性”。
二、與會心得
我所參加的主領域為 Nitride Semiconductors 並包括了下列次領域 Crystal Growth/MBE
Growth/Plasma Processing/Electronic Devices/White LEDs/UV LEDs，從該領域所發表之論文題
目，我體認到目前氮化物及其相關化合物材料仍然是大家注目的焦點同時也有與會的學者專家
討論並給了我相當珍貴的建議。出席國際會議除了可以讓自己的研究成果公諸於世之外，也可
以比較與觀摩其它國家相關領域的研究水準。當然除了學術方面的驗證之外，我也藉由此次國
際會議之機會參訪了會議所在地的名城大學及名古屋城。這一次的國際會議讓我深深體會到學
術是沒有國界的同時藉由此機會我也認識了一些大師級人物，這對我的未來研究方向具有非常
重要的指標。
圖 1 會場報到區 圖 2 廠商展示區
4ISPlasma2010 會議手冊一本。
六、其他
無

PB118B Urbach Tail Studies of In0.01Al0.11Ga0.88N/GaN Film 
1S. Y. Hu, 2Y. C. Lee, 3Z. C. Feng and 4S. H. Yang
1Tung Fang Institute of Technology, Taiwan
2Tungnan University, Taiwan
3National Taiwan University, Taiwan
4National Taiwan Ocean University, Taiwan
PB119A The Measurement of SU-8 Coating Thickness using Neutral Mechanical Plane  in ZnO based Thin Film Transistors
D-K. Lee, J-H. Boo and Y-J. Kim
Sungkyunkwan University, Korea
ISPlasma2010 March 7-10, 2010 Nagoya, Japan
58
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
