1建構新的以排序為主之蟻行演算法並應用於最佳化路徑派遣系統與動
態旅行銷售員問題
Construction of a Novel Rank-based Ant Colony System Applied to Optimal
Path Dispatch System and Dynamic Traveling Salesman Problem
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-214-092-
執行期限：95年8月1日至96年7月31日
主持人：劉振隆 義守大學資訊管理學系
計畫參與人員：康家瑋 義守大學資訊管理研究所
黃毓慧 義守大學資訊管理學系
E-mail：jlliu@isu.edu.tw
中文摘要
本計畫提出一種以排序為主的蟻行最佳化(ACO)方法，包含有一種非線性選擇壓力函數
與一種修改後的Q-learning方法，來增進Dorigo et al.提出的原始ACO之收斂特性。提出的以
排序為主之選擇壓力函數中的參數 q的設定值以數值方式探討St70旅行銷售員問題來訂定。
此改良型的ACO將應用於靜態KroA 100旅行銷售員問題、大型旅行銷售員案例以及有532個
節點的路徑規劃問題上。另外，本文將採用蟻行演算法作為最佳路徑搜尋機制並應用於消防
救災上，此系統稱為消防路徑派遣系統。當火災發生時，經由運算後系統主畫面可顯示出火
場與消防隊之最佳救災路徑，便利消防人員能有效地動員派赴火場救災以減少損失，並得讓
派遣人員在緊急的情況下找出鄰近相互支援的分隊之最佳搜救路徑協同救災。更進一步地，
本計畫亦應用以排序為主的ACO方法於動態銷售員問題上，可有效地探勘出因環境改變而受
到影響的路徑，在本研究工作中，環境的改變設定為交通塞車以及城市間道路封閉，這兩種
情形常使的旅行銷售員更改他的訪問城市路線。
關鍵字：以排序為主的蟻行最佳化、消防路徑派遣系統、動態旅行銷售員問題。
Abstract
This study proposes a rank-based ant colony optimization (ACO) method with a rank-based
nonlinear selective pressure function and a modified Q-learning method to enhance the convergence
characteristics of Dorigo et al.’s original ACO. The optimal setting for the control parameters ( q )
used in the rank-based selective pressure function was investigated numerically using a benchmark
St70 case of the static traveling salesman problem. The improved ACO was applied to the static
TSP of the KroA100 case, large TSP cases and a route programming with 532 nodes. Additionally,
this study uses the ant colony optimization to be the searching mechanism of finding the optimal
route and further applies to the aspects of relieving the disaster when a fire occurred somewhere.
This system is named fire route dispatch system. When a fire occurred, the major screen of display
in the present system can show the best route between the fire-fighting station and fire of scene after
the computation using the presented ant algorithm. Therefore, the optimal route will support the
firemen to arrive the scene of fire efficiently in order to relieve the disaster. This system also pro-
vides the dispatcher of a fire station to find out the optimal routes for instructing other available
neighborhood subsections to put out the fire collaboratively. Furthermore, this study applied the
rank-based ACO to solve dynamic traveling salesman problems for exploring affected by a change
in the environment. In this work, the environment changes are traffic jams and road closures be-
tween cities, those sometimes force the salesman to change his route.
Keywords: Rank-based ant colony system, Fire route dispatch system, Dynamic traveling salesman
problems.
3accumulated on the edges of the tour and a
heuristic function of the distance between two
cities. At each time step, the ants move to other
cities and modify the pheromone trail of edges.
This process is called the local-updating rule.
When all the ants have finished a tour, the
elitist ant that created the shortest tour modifies
the pheromone trail along the best path in a
process termed global-updating rule.
Accordingly, an artificial ant k in city r
chooses the next city to visit, z , is according
to the action choice rule,
 







 
 
otherwise,
if,]),([)],([maxarg 0
)(
Z
qrandurur
z rTu k

(1)
where ),( ur is the amount of pheromones in
the trail on edge ),( ur ; ),( ur is a heuristic
function (also named visibility) chosen as the
inverse of the distance between cities r and
u ; )(rTk is the set of cities that remain to be
visited by ant k at city r , and  is a
parameter of the power used to weight the
relative importance of the pheromone trail and
the visibility. The term rand is a random
value given by a uniform probability
distribution in the interval [0,1]; 0q is a
selective parameter that determines the relative
importance of exploration and exploitation, and
Z is the next city taken from unvisited cities
according to the state transition rule with
probability ),( zrpk , described in the following
subsection. Notably, the parameter ]1,0[0q
is related to the computational efficiency of
TSP. A typical value of 0q is approximately
0.9.
2.1 Proposed Rank-based Nonlinear Selec-
tive Pressure Function for State Transition
Rule
When the random value rand is larger than
0q as shown in Eq. (1), the state transition rule
is applied to explore the next city Z . The
probability distribution model of the original
Dorigo and Gambardela’s ACO uses a
random-proportional rule to simulate the
behavior of real ants in exploring edges of
paths with shorter distances and dense
pheromone trails.









 
 

otherwise,0
)(if,
)],()][,([
)],()][,([
),(
)(
rTz
urur
zrzr
zrp
k
rTu
k
k




(2)
where ),( zrpk is the probability that ant k
chooses to move from city r to city z .
Usually, this probability distribution is suitable
for finding good paths in small TSPs, but it is
inefficient for doing so in large TSPs. Thus, the
original ACO always converges poorly because
the differences among the values of
 )],()][,([ zrzr on all edges may not be
significant enough in large TSPs during
iteration, generally reducing the exploration
efficiency. Accordingly, the proposed selective
pressure function based on the rank according
to the values  )],()][,([ zrzr is applied to
reformulate the probability ),( zrpk . When the
rank equals 1, the value of  )],()][,([ zrzr
on the edge between cities r and z has the
maximum value, whereas when the rank equals
bN ,
 )],()][,([ zrzr has the minimum
value. The proposed nonlinear selective
pressure function for ),( zrpk is expressed as







 


otherwise,0
)(if,)1(
)1(1
1
),(
1 rTzqq
qzrp k
rank
Nrank
k
b
(3)
satisfying the constraint 


bN
i
i
k zrp
1
1),( . The
parameter )1,0(q in this function does not
depend on the number of unvisited cities bN ;
larger values of q imply a stronger selective
pressure.
2.2 Proposed Modified Q-learning for Local
Updating Rule
In the TSP, ants visit edges and change their
pheromone level by applying the local updating
5III Results and Discussion
The TSPs studied herein are available in the
TSP library on the web site,
http://www.iwr.uniheidelberg.de/iwr/comopt/so
ft/ TSPLIB95/TSPLIB.html. In evaluating
TSPs and route programming problems solved
using the proposed ACO, the parameters were
set to  0.1,=2, =0.8 and 9.00 q ,
and the other one important parameter, q , was
numerically analyzed. The best solution to each
problem was determined from 20 runs.
3.1 Evaluation of Present Rank-based ACO
to Solve TSPs.
The St70.tsp problem was selected as the
benchmark case to verify the performance of
the proposed rank-based ACO. This case has an
optimal tour with a minimum length of 675,
based on integer values for the distances
between cities. Based on the optimal tour
presented on the TSPLIB web site, the practical
length computed using real values is 678.5976.
In this case computation, the parameter q
associated with the proposed rank-based
nonlinear selective pressure function for the
rank-based ACO is specified as 0.9. Figure 1
shows that the rank-based ACO performs well
with regard to the convergence rate and
minimal tour length for the best and average
solutions. The best tour lengths obtained using
the original and rank-based ACOs are 684.12
and 677.11, respectively. The calculated length
is very close to the best known solution of 675
presented on the TSPLIB web site.
Additionally, the average tour lengths obtained
using the original and rank-based ACOs are
694.05 and 682.59, respectively. Clearly, the
rank-based ACO using the nonlinear selective
pressure function based on ranking and the
modified Q-learning outperforms the original
ACO.
Figure 2 concerns the sensitivity of the
nonlinear selective pressure function to
parameter q , illustrating the figure shows the
relative errors of the present numerical
solutions for seven q values ranging from
0.01 to 0.99. Clearly, a higher selective
pressure results in a better solution. The
numerical results indicate that 0.9 is a good
choice for q .
Figure 1. Comparison of convergence histories
obtained from the original ACO and ranked-
based ACO for the St70 TSP.
Figure 2. Sensitivity of the parameter q
associated with the nonlinear selective pressure
function to ACS.
Figure 3 compares the use of the original and
rank-based ACOs for solving a KroA100
instance. Notably, the candidate list was
applied to solve the KroA100 problem to
enhance the ACO’s performance. The
parameter value of closest cities ( clN ) was set
to 10. Reference 6 considers the use of various
values from 10-100 to solve Eil51 and Pcb4442
problems. Dorigo et al. concluded that the use
of small clN values improves the
computational performance of ACO in terms of
the solution and CPU time. The results of best
and average tour lengths shown in Fig. 3
indicate that the present ACO using the rank-
based nonlinear selective pressure function and
73.3 Large Route Programming with 532
Nodes
The proposed rank-based ACO was applied
to the route programming with 532 nodes. This
study considered two paths, one with the
starting node at 199 and the destination at 531,
and the other starting at 2 and ending at 479.
Figure 5 compares the original and rank-based
ACOs in solving the two route programming
problems. The minimum tour lengths from
nodes 199 to 531 obtained using the original
ACO and rank-based ACO are around
19371.50 and 10980.19, respectively.
Moreover, the minimum tour lengths from
nodes 2 to 479 obtained using the original ACO
and rank-based ACO are around 8342.26 and
5465.00, respectively. Clearly, these results
indicate that the rank-based ACO outperforms
the original ACO in terms of tour length.
Figures 6(a)-(d) compare the paths obtained
using the original and rank-based ACOs.
According to the two case studies, the rank-
based ACS is very powerful when applied to
large route programming problems. This work
shows that practical route programming in a
city or a large district is feasible.
Figure 5. Comparison of convergence histories
obtained using the original ACO and ranked-
based ACO for the route programming problem.
Figure 6. The shortest paths obtained using the
(a) original and (b) ranked-based ACOs from
the 199th node to the 531st node, and the short-
est paths obtained using the (c) original and (d)
ranked-based ACOs from the 2nd node to the
479th node.
3.4 Optimal Route Dispatch System for Fire
Fighting
Moreover, the proposed rank-based ACO is
applied to the optimal route dispatch for fire
fighting in the districts of Tainan city. The
districts include the Eastern, Southern, Western,
North, Middle, An-Nan and An-Ping. There are
two districts for demonstrating the optimal
route searching system of fire fighting. One is
for An-Nan district, and the other is for An-
Ping. The operating screen of the dispatch
system is displayed in Fig. 7(a). The man
screen of the system is to show the map of one
district and the searching route using the rank-
based ACO started from a fire-fighting station
to the scene of fire. The results of presented
searching route are compared to the PAPAGO,
which is a commercial software particularly
developed for searching optimal route
according to the database of map. Figures 7(a)-
(b) are the comparison of our present path with
that of the PAPAGO. Clearly, both paths agree
well. Figures 8(a)-(b) are the comparison of our
present path with that of the PAPAGO when
some areas located in An-Ping district exist
bridges only to connect the fire-fighting station
and the scene of fire. From the computational
result, present searching system can effectively
find out the optimal route which passes through
a bridge and connects two locations separated
by a water channel. Thus, the proposed optimal
route dispatch system is effective for route
search and also is comparable with the well-
known commercial software.
(a)
(c) (d)
(b)
9Figs. 10(a) and 10(b). Clearly, the paths
between the cities 62 and 105, and between the
cities 37 and 42, are broken after a jam occurs
and reconnected to each other when the jams
disappear.
Figure 10. Optimal tours during and after two
traffic jams.
3.6 Dynamic Problem with One Traffic Jam
and One Path Closure
The path closure problem differs from the
traffic jam case. When paths in the optimal
traveling route are closed owing to
unpredictable incidents, for example road
construction or grounding of airplane between
two cities, the salesman must make a detour to
reconstruct his near-optimal tour. The total tour
length is larger than that of the original, in
which all routes between cities are open
thoroughfare. This instance demonstrates there
are two environmental changes in link
characteristics exits during simulation.
In this case, the path between the indices 62
and 105 was jammed between iteration 550 and
700, and between the indices 37 and 42 was
closed at iteration 750. Figure 11 displays the
tour length before and after traffic and path
closure. Clearly, a maximum peak occurs at
iteration 573 after the traffic jam between the
indices 62 and 105 occurred. Following, a
small peak then occurs at iteration 750 due to
the beginning of the path closure between the
indices 37 and 42. The final alternate tour with
minimum length 14419.94 is shown in Fig. 12.
Clearly, the paths between the cities 62 and 105
was connected to each other when the jam
disappear, whereas, the path between the
indices 37 and 42 was removed from the near-
optimal tour.
Figure 11. Variations of tour length before and
after one path jam and one path closure.
Figure 12. Optimal tour after one path jam and
one path closure.
IV Conclusions
This study proposes a rank-based ant colony
optimization (ACO) method, which uses the
rank-based nonlinear selective pressure func-
tion to formulate the state transition rule and
modified Q-learning to reinforce the local up-
dating rule, to improve the computational per-
formance in solving static traveling salesman
problems (TSPs), route programming, route
dispatch system for fire fighting, and dynamic
TSPs. The rank-based nonlinear selective pres-
sure function is numerically more efficiency
than the random-proportional rule of the origi-
nal ACO. The optimal parameter q in the
nonlinear selective pressure function was de-
termined to be 0.9 by analyzing errors in com-
puting the benchmark St70 TSP. Additionally,
modified Q-learning, which incorporates a con-
stant pheromone distribution and standard Q-
learning, effectively solves reinforcement
learning problems involving state-action opti-
(a)
(b)
