significantly without awareness of the malicious 
behaviors. With this regard, the project aims at the 
detection of malicious behaviors at relays in the 
space-time coded cooperative networks. Most existing 
work focused on malicious detection under the 
assumption of perfect channel information known at 
the destination. Nevertheless, the channel 
coefficients of all relay- destination links are 
estimated and monitored at the destination, and, in 
the presence of malicious relays, the channel 
estimates is questionable since the training symbols 
could be garbled by the relays, which leads to 
erroneous detection of malicious relays. In this 
project, the assumption of perfect channel state 
information known at the destination will be removed 
while performing malicious detection. More 
specifically, we propose joint estimation of channel 
coefficients and detection of malicious relays using 
the fact that a sequence of channel estimates shall 
be consistent in quasi-static fading environment. 
Through measuring the variation of channel estimates, 
a detection strategy of malicious relays was 
developed and shown to be effective. It shows from 
simulation results that increasing the number of 
received blocks provides significant improvement even 
at low SNR regime. 
英文關鍵詞： Cooperative communications, Misbehavior detection, 
Channel estimation, Noncoherent detection 
 
 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ▇成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
使用時空編碼的合作式網路中惡意中繼節點之偵測 
 
 
計畫編號：NSC100－2221－ E － 110－062－ 
計畫類別：個別型計畫    
執行期間： 100  年 8 月 1  日至 101  年 7 月 31  日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立中山大學通訊工程研究所 
 
計畫主持人：黃婉甄 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：羅立中、游皓婷、易楊明、蔡宜澤、蔡詠淳、陳信逢 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：精簡報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
 
 
 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  7  月  31  日 
附件一 
 4
計畫英文摘要 
 
Cooperative	Communications	have	been	investigated	extensively	in	these	years	due	to	its	abilities	
to	exploit	spatial	diversity	and	to	improve	channel	capacity	through	cooperation	among	different	nodes	
in	the	multiuser	network.	In	the	past,	numerous	research	efforts	focus	on	the	enhancements	of	spectral	
or	 energy	efficiency	 through	 resource	allocations,	precoding	 strategies,	 relay	 selections,	 and	 so	 forth.	
However,	these	schemes	have	been	optimized	based	on	an	important	assumption	that	all	relay	partners	
are	trustworthy.	If	one	of	the	relays	does	not	conform	to	the	cooperative	strategy	and	garbles	the	source	
symbols,	 the	 system	 performance	will	 be	 degraded	 significantly	without	 awareness	 of	 the	malicious	
behaviors.	With	 this	 regard,	 the	 project	 aims	 at	 the	 detection	 of	malicious	 behaviors	 at	 relays	 in	 the	
space‐time	coded	cooperative	networks.	Most	existing	work	focused	on	malicious	detection	under	the	
assumption	 of	 perfect	 channel	 information	 known	 at	 the	 destination.	 Nevertheless,	 the	 channel	
coefficients	of	 all	 relay‐	destination	 links	 are	 estimated	and	monitored	at	 the	destination,	 and,	 in	 the	
presence	of	malicious	relays,	the	channel	estimates	is	questionable	since	the	training	symbols	could	be	
garbled	 by	 the	 relays,	 which	 leads	 to	 erroneous	 detection	 of	 malicious	 relays.	 In	 this	 project,	 the	
assumption	 of	 perfect	 channel	 state	 information	 known	 at	 the	 destination	 will	 be	 removed	 while	
performing	malicious	detection.	More	specifically,	we	propose	 joint	estimation	of	 channel	 coefficients	
and	detection	of	malicious	relays	using	the	fact	that	a	sequence	of	channel	estimates	shall	be	consistent	
in	quasi‐static	fading	environment.	Through	measuring	the	variation	of	channel	estimates,	a	detection	
strategy	of	malicious	relays	was	developed	and	shown	to	be	effective.	It	shows	from	simulation	results	
that	 increasing	 the	 number	 of	 received	 blocks	 provides	 significant	 improvement	 even	 at	 low	 SNR	
regime.	
	
Keywords:	Cooperative	communications,	Misbehavior	detection,	Channel	estimation,	Noncoherent	
detection	
 6
discussions on misbehavior detection. To deal with the challenge of no channel information, our proposed 
scheme begins with channel estimation of the relay-destination links based on the received tracing symbols. 
Under assumption of Rayleigh and block faded channels, these channel estimates have distinguishable 
statistical properties when either relay or both relays misbehave. Therefore, we proposed a two-stage 
misbehavior detection according to the second-order statistics of channel estimates between relays and the 
destination. In the first stage, we first determine whether one of the relays misbehaves or both relays have 
consistent behavior based the difference between variances of two channel estimates averaged over all 
possible channel realizations. Next, the cases of both relays behaving cooperatively or maliciously are further 
distinguished according to the variances of channel estimates given some channel realization. Through 
computer simulations, it shows that detection performance depends more on the number of received blocks 
than the transmission power. Increasing the number of received blocks results in significant improvement 
even at low SNR regime. 
 
System Model 
We consider a canonical cooperative network where one user acts as a source, and two cooperating 
partners serve as relays by forwarding the source’s information to the destination. In this work, we assume 
that the source-destination channel is weak due to path loss and shadowing effects. The cooperative 
transmission is accomplished in two phases. In phase I, the source transmits a block of K symbols, which are 
modulated by quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK) with unit energy. Let ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )[ [1], [2], [ ]]n n n n Ts s s sx x x Kx   
be the n-th block transmitted by the source. Among each block, B tracing symbols have been inserted to 
perform misbehavior detection. After receiving signal, each relay proceeds to decode the source block and 
retransmit it after applying space-time coding. To focus our discussion on the behavior of relays, we assume 
that both relays can reliably decode each source block. Let  ( )ˆ nx k  be the k-th symbol retransmitted by the 
relay _ during the n-th block period. During the n-th block period of Phase II, the k-th symbol received at the 
destination is given by 
        ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )1, 1 2, 2ˆ ˆ ,2n n n n n nrd d d dPy k h x k h x k w k                           (1) 
where rP is total transmission power of the relays, 
( )
,
n
dh is channel coefficient between relay  and the 
destination during the n-th block period, and  ( )ndw k is additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) occurred at the 
destination with variance 2w . In this work, all channels are Rayleigh and block faded with variance 2h , and 
the channel coefficients vary independently block-by-block. 
 
 8
( ) ( )[ [2 1], [2 ]]n ns i s ix L x L  be the i-th pair of tracing symbols inserted in the n-th source block, where Li indicates 
its position. The corresponding received vector ( ) ( ) ( )[ [2 1], [2 ]]n n n Ti d i d iy L y Ly  is 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )ˆ , 1,2,n n n ni r i iP i B  y X h w                                   (3) 
where 
   
   
( ) ( )
1 2( )
( ) ( )
1 2
ˆ ˆ2 1 2 11ˆ ,
ˆ ˆ2 22
n n
i in
i n n
i i
x L x L
x L x L
     
X  
( ) ( ) ( )
1, 2,[ , ]
n n n T
d dh hh , and ( ) ( ) ( )[ [2 1], [2 1]]n n n Ti d i d iw L w L  w is a Gaussian noise vector. Note that ( )niX is unitary 
when both relays are fully cooperative. In this case, the least-square (LS) channel estimate 
( ) ( ) ( )
1, 2,
ˆ ˆˆ [ [ ], [ ]]n n n Ti d i d ih L h Lh   equals to 
 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )1ˆ ,Hn n n n n ni i i i i
rP
  h X y Θ h w                            (4) 
where 
    
    
*( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
1, 2,( )
*( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
1, 2,
2 1 2
,
2 1 2
n n n n
i s i s i in
i
n n n n
s i s i i i
x L x L
x L x L
 
 
       
Θ  
    ( ) ( ) ( ), 2 2 1 2n n ni i iL L       ,     ( ) ( ) ( ), 2 2 1 2n n ni i iL L       , and ( )niw is a circularly symmetric 
Gaussian random vector with covariance matrix  2w rP I . Both ( ),ni  and ( ),ni  have zero mean and variance 
1 2 when relaymisbehaves. 
 
The second-order statistical properties of the channel estimates depend on behavior of two relays. In the 
following, we will explorethe channel estimates based on three different cases. 
Case I : When both relays are fully cooperative, we have ( )ni Θ I . Conditioning on a channel realization ( )nh , 
means and variances of each channel estimates are 
 ( ) ( ) ( ), ,ˆ , 1,2,n n nd i dh L h    E h                                  (5) 
   2( ) ( ),ˆVar , 1,2.n n wd i
r
h L
P
 h                                (6) 
It shows that unbiased channel estimates can be obtained with cooperative relays. Furthermore, variances of 
the channel estimates averaged over all channel realizations equal to 
   2( ) 2,ˆVar , 1,2.n wd i h
r
h L
P
                                 (7) 
Case II : Consider one of the relay, say relay m , is malicious. It can be verified that conditional means and 
 10
Define a testing statistic of the first stage as the absolute difference between variances of two channel 
estimates, i.e., 
2 2
1 1, 2,d d   .                                    (15) 
Empirical PDFs of 1 conditioning on three cases are illustrated in Fig.1 at SNR= 10 dB. In this stage, one can 
determine whether case I or case III occurs if 1 1  ; otherwise, case II occurs. The threshold 1 can be 
predetermined numerically based on Maximum a-Posteriori (MAP) criterion. Furthermore, if case II is 
identified, one may detect relay m is malicious if 2 ,m d  is minimal. 
 
 
Fig. 1. The empirical PDFs of v1 conditioning on the cases with 
N = 20 given B = 10 and SNR = 10 dB 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. The empirical PDFs of v2 conditioning on the cases with 
N = 20 given B = 10 and SNR = 0 dB 
 
In the second stage, we further determine whether both relays is trustworthy or misbehaving according to 
the conditional variances expressed in (6) and (12). Denote the sample variance of ( ),ˆ
n
dh conditioning on channel 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
SNR= 10 dB
v
1
pd
f: 
P
r(
 v
1 
)
 
 
CASE I
CASE II 
CASE III
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
 SNR= 0 dB
v
2
pd
f: 
P
r(
 v
2 
)
 
 
CASE I
CASE III
 12
the first stage and the second stage, respectively. In Fig.4, it shows that raising transmission power results in 
limited performance improvement during the first stage. Moreover, increasing the number of received block 
leads to significant performance gain. The reason is that the testing statistic of the first stage is to estimate the 
difference between variances of two channel estimates averaged over all possible channel realizations. Thus, 
accuracy of the testing statistic highly depends on the value of N. As shown in Fig.5, the value of transmit 
SNR brings more improvement in the second stage. Moreover, the detection error probability occurred in the 
second stage is much less than that of the first stage. Therefore, the overall detection error probability, as 
shown in Fig.6, is dominated by the detection errors occurred in the first stage. Therefore, allowing sufficient 
time to collect received blocks is more critical in our proposed scheme than increasing transmission power. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Probabilities of detection errors occurred during the first 
stage 1 with various N and B = 10 
 
 
Fig. 5. Probabilities of detection errors occurred during the second 
stage 1 with various N and B = 10. 
−5 0 5 10 15 20 25
10
−2
10
−1
10
0
SNR (dB)
D
et
ec
tio
n 
E
rr
or
 R
at
e
 
 
N=10
N=20
N=30
N=40
−5 −4 −3 −2 −1 0 1 2 3
10
−3
10
−2
10
−1
10
0
SNR (dB)
D
et
ec
tio
n 
E
rr
or
 R
at
e
 
 
N=10
N=20
N=30
N=40
 14
Performance analysis,” in IEEE Sarnoff Symposium, 2007. 
[8] Y. Liu, Y. Wu, and J. Tang, “Two tier detection model for misbehavior of low-power nodes in virtual 
MIMO based wireless networks,” in Proc. of IEEE International Conf. on Information Assurance and 
Security (IAS), pp. 155–160, Aug. 2010. 
[9] S. Dehnie, H. Sencar, and N. Memon, “Detecting malicious behavior in cooperative diversity,” in Proc. of 
the Conf. on Information Sciences and Systems (CISS), Mar. 2007 
  
 一、參加會議經過 
此趟行程的目的主要至京都國際會館 Kyoto	 International	 Conference	 Center	 (KICC)
參加並發表會議論文於「2012 年 IEEE 國際聲訊語音暨訊號處理研討會」(IEEE	
International	Conference	on	Acoustics,	Speech,	and	Signal	Processing	, ICASSP 2009)。
ICASSP 為 IEEE 訊號處理領域(Signal Processing Society) 中最大型的國際研討
會，每年舉辦一次，藉由發表最新之研究成果及交換心得，對瞭解國際最新技術發
展趨勢有很大之幫助。該研討會探討的領域很廣，不僅包括了筆者正從事研究的通
訊的訊號處理技術，還包括其他多媒體訊號處理(如語音、影像)、網路等等議題。
會議的參與成員來自各國學術界及業界的學者專家；藉由此次與國際學者分享與討
論研究發現，除了提升目前的研究品質，並可拓展及建立未來學術研究之國際合作
機會，對於計畫的執行助益很大。這次 2012 年在京都的 ICASSP，提供了一個讓訊號 
 
 
圖一 京都國際會館外觀 
二、與會心得 
ICASSP 是訊號處理領域最盛大的會議，會議的主軸--論文發表大致歸類如下:  
(1) Audio and acoustic signal processing 
(2) Bio imaging and signal processing 
(3) Design and implementation of signal processing systems 
(4) Image, video and multidimensional signal processing 
(5) Industry technology track 
(6) Information forensics and security 
(7) Machine learning for signal processing 
(8) Multimedia signal processing 
(9) Sensor array and multichannel signal processing 
(10) Signal processing education 
(11) Signal processing for communications and networking 
(Topics, such as Smart Grid, are added) 
(12) Signal processing theory and methods 
(13) Speech processing 
(14) Spoken language processing 
這些 sessions 的主題包羅萬象，包括了各種多媒體訊號的處理，感測網路，天線陣
列訊號處理等等，在此研討會中獲得不少各地發展的經驗及訊息，收穫頗豐；會議
期間，除了聆聽與會學者的論文發表外，亦和各國學者分享彼此的研究經驗，參與
這樣的盛會，除了可以拓展視野，與各領域學者交流，亦可增進台灣在國際競爭上
之能見度。 
 (2)其他會議照片 
 
 
Welcome Reception 歡迎酒會 
 
開幕致詞 
 
開幕序中京都古琴表演 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 使用時空編碼的合作式網路中惡意中繼節點之偵測
計畫主持人: 黃婉甄
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-110-062- 學門領域: 通訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
