 1 
報告內容 
I. 前言  Introduction 
Cell migration plays an important role in normal physiological activities, including wound healing 
and morphogenesis.  Electric fields (EFs) induce and enhance cell migration in various tissues, 
including bone and cornea and are used clinically to treat fracture non-unions and promote spinal 
fusion [1, 2].  In addition, several studies have shown that applied EF can promote cell 
proliferation and alignment [3].  Cells are also known to align along topographical cues such as 
parallel fibers and microgrooves [4, 5].  Comparing the effects of perpendicular EF and 
microgrooves, Rajnicek and coworkers demonstrated that corneal fibroblasts align according to the 
topographical cue [6, 7].  Previously we have shown that applied direct current (DC) EF promotes 
knee ligament fibroblast migration and enhances collagen gene expression [8].  In the current 
study, we examine the effects of applied EF on fibroblasts grown on native matrices and investigate 
the interactions of applied EF direction with fiber orientation on cell migration and alignment. 
 
II. 研究目的  Specific Aims 
The goal of this proposal was to characterize EF-induced ligament fibroblast migration and 
attachment on the ligament matrix for understanding their intrinsic properties and healing 
mechanisms.  We hypothesized that applied EF will enhance ligament fibroblast migration on its 
native matrix.  The specific aims were as follows: 
SA1. Design and build a custom bioreactor to apply direct current electric fields. 
SA2. Characterize EF-induced migration in knee ligament fibroblasts on its native 
matrix.  Cell morphology, viability, and phenotype will also be evaluated after 
the application of electric fields.  
 
III. 文獻探討  Background 
A Knee Ligaments 
Ligaments are bands of parallel collagen fibers (mostly type 
I), made of dense connective tissue, that mediate normal 
joint movement and stability.  Two extra-articular (outside 
the synovial joint capsule) and two intra-articular (inside the 
synovial joint capsule) in the knee serve to connect and 
steady movements in the knee (see Figure III-1).  Ligament 
injuries, called sprains, happen mostly to the medial 
collateral and anterior cruciate ligaments (MCL and ACL).  
While MCL exhibits reliable healing even without repair, 
ACL uniformly fails to mount a healing response, even if 
repair is attempted [9].  There are 250,000 cases of ACL 
injuries in the United States each year, causing an estimated 
1.5 billion dollars annually [10].  Misalignment of the joint from previous ACL damages may lead 
 
Figure III-1 Schematic drawing of 
knee ligaments 
 3 
      
Figure V-1  A 
Harvested ACL 
segment; B  ACL 
pieces in a tissue 
culture dish; C 
ACL fibroblasts 
from explant 
cultures; D The 
galvanotaxis 
chamber 
shown to orient cell and the subsequent fiber alignment [46, 47]. 
IV. 研究方法  Research Design 
Specific Aim 1. Design and build a custom bioreactor to apply DC electric field. 
Specific Aim 2. Characterize EF-induced migration in knee ligament fibroblasts on its native 
matrix. Evaluate cell morphology, viability, and phenotype after application of electric fields. 
Design Rationale for EF chamber:  The key design criteria for the EF chamber is to apply a 
uniform EF.  Based on this, a parallel-flow chamber design was adapted.  The flow chamber was 
designed to apply laminar flow, which would ensure a uniform ionic flow on the sample [48].  The 
chamber body was made with a machineable, sterilizable polycarbonate block with a glass window 
whereas a glass slide with cultured cells represents the second plate.  The two parallel plates are 
separated by a uniform thickness rectangular silastic spacer with a central rectangular opening, 
held together with screws and a plastic lid (having a rectangular opening to accommodate the 
microscope objective and transmit light), thereby creating a sealed rectangular channel. 
Rational for Native Matrix:  Cellular interaction with substrate influences phenotypic expression 
and matrix remodeling.  Ligament fibroblasts have different attachment strengths to various 
matrix components, which also varies with intra- and extra-articular ligaments [49].  In addition to 
molecular cues, topological or geometrical cues could direct cell phenotype (e.g. type II collagen 
synthesis for spherical chondrocytes, as shown in the landmark paper by Benya and Shaffer [50]).  
On man-made substrates, ligament fibroblasts produced significantly more collagen on aligned 
fibers, compared with fibers with random orientation [51].  The native matrix has the advantage of 
reproducing a physiologic environment with accurate composition and topographical cues.  
 
V. 結果與討論  Results and Discussions 
A Establishment of Porcine Ligament Culture and Galvanotaxis Chamber Design and Production 
This project aimed 
to characterize the 
effects of applied 
EF on ACL 
fibroblasts that are 
cultured on their 
native collagen 
matrix.  We 
investigated ACL 
fibroblast responses 
to the applied EF on 
the native matrix.  
We established the porcine ACL model and isolated ACL fibroblasts (Figure V-1ABC). 
Additionally, we modified our original design and manufactured the galvanotaxis chamber 
accordingly (Figure V-1D).  
 5 
B.3 Discussion 
Porcine knee ligament fibroblasts grown on their native matrices were found to exhibit enhanced 
migration when subjected to applied DC EF that was in the same direction as the fiber orientation.  
When the matrix was perpendicular to the EF direction, cells still migrated along the fibers, 
suggesting a priority of topographical cues, confirming previous findings with corneal fibroblasts 
[6].  No significant differences were found between EF-induced migration of ACL and MCL 
fibroblasts; however, a EF strength of 6 V/cm was used in this study while a stronger enhancing 
effect had been observed at 2 V/cm with ACL fibroblasts [8].  In addition, there appeared to be 
more variability in cell migration direction in ACL fibroblasts, which may be due to intrinsic cell 
differences or disparity in substrate fiber organization such as wave patterns (crimp) (Figure 
V-2D, [17, 53]).  We have previously demonstrated perpendicular alignment of ligament 
fibroblasts to applied EF on glass or collagen substrates [8]. Interestingly, no particular 
orientation was found on the native substrates under the same culture conditions (Figure V-2C), 
while corneal fibroblasts exhibited enhanced alignment [6].  Topographical cues from the fibers 
may slow cell spreading (as evident from cell size differences) and studies with longer plating 
and experimental duration in the future could provide further verification.  The ability to direct 
and enhance cell migration offers a valuable tool for treatment strategies in wound healing and 
tissue engineering.  
C Corneal Epithelial Cells Preferentially Migrate on Basement Membrane [54] 
C.1 Introduction 
In addition to the proposed studies of understanding ligament fibroblast migration on native 
matrices, we also examined corneal epithelial cell migration on amniotic membranes.  Amniotic 
membrane (AM) is the innermost layer of the fetal membranes.  It consists of a single layer of 
epithelial cells that are attached to a thick basement membrane, and an avascular stromal matrix.  
As a fetal tissue it is considered to be immunologically inert and to possess several physiologic 
properties, including inhibition of scarring, inflammation, and angiogenesis, and providing a 
substrate for epithelial cell growth and attachment both in vivo and in vitro [55].  In 
ophthalmology, it has been used as a graft and can be used with its epithelium up when it is 
expected to become covered by the host conjunctiva or corneal epithelium; as a protective patch 
with its epithelium down, which facilitates trapping of inflammatory cells in the stroma and 
reducing inflammation; or in a combination of both, one used as a graft and the other as a patch. 
While it is commonly used, the mechanism by which differentiates the different orientations is 
not clear.  In this study, we used electric fields to simulate the corneal wound healing process 
[56], and evaluate different migration behaviors in either sides of amniotic membrane.  Collagen 
substrates of different concentrations were also used to compare with the type I collagen-rich 
matrix of the AM stroma. 
C.2 Methods 
Limbal corneal epithelial layers were harvested from fresh bovine eyes by mechanical dissection 
and trypsin treatment.  Isolated cells were seeded onto either side of the AM or on different 
concentrations of collagen I (0.2, 2, 20, 200 μg/cm²) coated glass slides overnight for migration 
study.  Human AMs were deprived of their amniotic epithelial cells by incubation with 0.02% 
EDTA at 37°C for two hours to release cellular adhesion, followed by gentle scraping.  AMs 
 7 
concentrations, cells formed larger extensions, suggesting a more organized cytoskeleton.  Cells 
formed smaller processes and migrated slower on higher collagen concentrations.  AM has been 
used extensively in corneal disorders like corneal ulcers, persistent epithelial defects, and 
chemical injuries.  It can reinforce adhesion of basal epithelial cells, promote epithelial 
differentiation, prevent epithelial apoptosis, and improve corneal sensitivity and tear film stability, 
although the exact mechanism is not known [55].  One possibility is that the underlying matrix 
may influence the rate of reepithelization of a corneal wound, which is closely related to cell 
migration.  In the current study, we report a possible mechanism for enhanced wound healing 
with AM, which is the preferential migration of corneal epithelial cells on the BM side of AMs.  
Further studies will test our hypothesis by varying substrate chemistry and mechanics and 
investigate corneal wound healing in these environments. 
 
參考文獻 
1. Aaron RK, Ciombor DM, Simon BJ. Treatment of nonunions with electric and 
electromagnetic fields. Clin Orthop 2004;419:21. 
2. Zhao M, Agius-Fernandez A, Forrester JV, McCaig CD. Directed migration of corneal 
epithelial sheets in physiological electric fields. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 1996;37(13):2548. 
3. Zhao M, Forrester JV, McCaig CD. A small, physiological electric field orients cell division. 
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1999;96(9):4942. 
4. Brunette DM. Fibroblasts on micromachined substrata orient hierarchically to grooves of 
different dimensions. Exp Cell Res 1986;164(1):11. 
5. Baker BM, Mauck RL. The effect of nanofiber alignment on the maturation of engineered 
meniscus constructs. Biomaterials 2007;28(11):1967. 
6. Rajnicek AM, Foubister LE, McCaig CD. Alignment of corneal and lens epithelial cells by 
co-operative effects of substratum topography and DC electric fields. Biomaterials 
2008;29(13):2082. 
7. Rajnicek AM, Foubister LE, McCaig CD. Prioritising guidance cues: Directional migration 
induced by substratum contours and electrical gradients is controlled by a rho/cdc42 switch. Dev 
Biol 2007;312(1):448. 
8. Chao P-HG, Lu HH, Hung CT, et al. Effects of applied DC electric field on ligament 
fibroblast migration and wound healing. Connect Tissue Res 2007;48(4):188  
9. O'Donoghue DH, Frank GR, Jeter GL, et al. Repair and reconstruction of the anterior 
cruciate ligament in dogs. Factors influencing long-term results. J Bone Joint Surg Am 
1971;53(4):710. 
10. Boden BP, Griffin LY, Garrett WE. Etiology and prevention of noncontact ACL injury. The 
Physician and Sportsmedicine 2000;28(4) 
11. Daniel DM, Stone ML, Dobson BE, et al. Fate of the ACL-injured patient. A prospective 
outcome study. Am J Sports Med 1994;22(5):632. 
12. Lyon RM, Akeson WH, Amiel D, et al. Ultrastructural differences between the cells of the 
medical collateral and the anterior cruciate ligaments. Clin Orthop 1991(272):279. 
13. Schreck PJ, Kitabayashi LR, Amiel D, et al. Integrin display increases in the wounded rabbit 
medial collateral ligament but not the wounded anterior cruciate ligament. J Orthop Res 
 9 
32. Hartig M, Joos U, Wiesmann H-P. Capacitively coupled electric fields accelerate 
proliferation of osteoblast-like primary cells and increase bone extracellular matrix formation in 
vitro. Eur Biophys J 2000;29(7):499. 
33. Frank C, Schachar N, Dittrich D, et al. Electromagnetic stimulation of ligament healing in 
rabbits. Clin Orthop 1983;175:263. 
34. Lin Y, Nishimura R, Nozaki K, et al. Effects of pulsing electromagnetic fields on the 
ligament healing in rabbits. J Vet Med Sci 1992;54(5):1017. 
35. Akai M, Oda H, Shirasaki Y, Tateishi T. Electrical stimulation of ligament healing. An 
experimental study of the patellar ligament of rabbits. Clin Orthop 1988(235):296. 
36. Sheetz MP. Cell migration by graded attachment to substrates and contraction. Semin Cell 
Biol 1994;5(3):149. 
37. Abercrombie M. Concepts in morphogenesis. Proc R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 
1977;199(1136):337. 
38. Hehenberger K, Kratz G, Hansson A, Brismar K. Fibroblasts derived from human chronic 
diabetic wounds have a decreased proliferation rate, which is recovered by the addition of heparin. 
J Dermatol Sci 1998;16(2):144. 
39. Lauffenburger DA, Wells A. Quantitative parsing of cell multi-tasking in wound repair and 
tissue morphogenesis. Biophys J 2003;84(6):3499. 
40. Roeder BA, Kokini K, Sturgis JE, et al. Tensile mechanical properties of three-dimensional 
type I collagen extracellular matrices with varied microstructure. J Biomech Eng 
2002;124(2):214. 
41. Weiss JA, Woo SL, Ohland KJ, et al. Evaluation of a new injury model to study medial 
collateral ligament healing: primary repair versus nonoperative treatment. J Orthop Res 
1991;9(4):516. 
42. Frank C, Woo SL, Amiel D, et al. Medial collateral ligament healing. A multidisciplinary 
assessment in rabbits. Am J Sports Med 1983;11(6):379. 
43. Choi JS, Lee SJ, Christ GJ, et al. The influence of electrospun aligned poly([var 
epsilon]-caprolactone)/collagen nanofiber meshes on the formation of self-aligned skeletal 
muscle myotubes. Biomaterials 2008;29(19):2899. 
44. Wang JH-C, Jia F, Gilbert TW, Woo SL-Y. Cell orientation determines the alignment of 
cell-produced collagenous matrix. J Biomech 2003;36(1):97. 
45. Sun S, Titushkin I, Cho M. Regulation of mesenchymal stem cell adhesion and orientation in 
3D collagen scaffold by electrical stimulus. Bioelectrochemistry 2006;69(2):133. 
46. Cha JM, Park S-N, Noh SH, Suh H. Time-dependent modulation of alignment and 
differentiation of smooth muscle cells seeded on a porous substrate undergoing cyclic mechanical 
strain. Artif Organs 2006;30(4):250. 
47. Loesberg WA, Walboomers XF, van Loon JJWA, Jansen JA. The effect of combined cyclic 
mechanical stretching and microgrooved surface topography on the behavior of fibroblasts. J 
Biomed Mater Res A 2005;75A(3):723. 
48. Chao P-HG, Roy R, Mauck RL, et al. Chondrocyte translocation response to direct current 
electric fields. Journal of Biomechanical Engineering 2000;122(3):261. 
49. Sung KL, Yang L, Whittemore DE, et al. The differential adhesion forces of anterior cruciate 
and medial collateral ligament fibroblasts: effects of tropomodulin, talin, vinculin, and 
Ligament Fibroblast Migration on Native Matrices with Applied DC Electric Field 
1Yu, SF; 1Chang, W; 1Chen, YY; 1Cheng, YC; 2Liao, CS; 2Chu, SW; +1Chao, P-HG 
+1Institute of Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering and School of Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
2Department of Physics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
+pgchao@ntu.edu.tw 
 
Introduction 
Cell migration plays an important role in normal physiological activities, 
including wound healing and morphogenesis. Electric fields (EFs) 
induce and enhance cell migration in various tissues, including bone and 
cornea and are used clinically to treat fracture non-unions and promote 
spinal fusion [1,2]. In addition, several studies have shown that applied 
EF can promote cell proliferation and alignment [3]. Cells are also 
known to align along topographical cues such as parallel fibers and 
microgrooves [4,5]. Comparing the effects of perpendicular EF and 
microgrooves, Rajnicek and coworkers demonstrated that corneal 
fibroblasts align according to the topographical cue [6,7]. Previously we 
have shown that applied direct current (DC) EF promotes knee ligament 
fibroblast migration and enhances collagen gene expression [8]. In the 
current study, we examine the effects of applied EF on fibroblasts grown 
on their native matrices and investigate the interaction of applied EF 
direction with fiber orientation on cell migration and alignment. 
 
Materials and Methods 
Cell Culture and Substrate Preparation  Anterior cruciate ligament 
(ACL) and medical cruciate ligament (MCL) were harvested from 
porcine knee joints and cut into cubes. The explants were cultured in 
DMEM with 10% FBS (Invitrogen). Medium was changed twice weekly 
for ~3 weeks to allow for cell outgrowth [8]. To study the effect of 
native matrix, ligaments were embedded in OCT buffers and frozen 
sectioned (10 μm). The slices were then rinsed and UV-sterilized. 2 
hours prior to seeding, 4x104 cells were seeded on the ligament sections.  
Electric Field Studies  Ligament fibroblasts were subjected to applied 
DC EFs in a modified galvanotaxis chamber and placed on an inverted 
microscope [8]. A DC current of 3mA was applied, resulting in a field 
strength of 6 V/cm. Images were taken every 15 minutes for 2 hours. 
Each experiment was repeated at least three times. 
Migration Analysis  Cell migration directional velocity was analyzed by 
manually selecting centroid of each cell and tracking them with time. 
Cell migration distance and angle (θ) were measured and directional 
velocity, a representation of cell migration in the direction of the field, 
was calculated by multiplying migration speed with cos(θ).  
Second Harmonic Imaging  Second harmonic generation (SHG; no 
fluorophore required) signals from collagen fibers were excited by a 
wavelength of 1040 nm. The formation of SHG radiation, which occurs 
at half of the incident laser wavelength, was monitored. 
Statistical Analysis  STATISTICA (StatSoft) was used to perform 
ANOVA and post-hoc tests (LSD) with =0.05.  
 
Results 
When subjected to applied DC EF, knee ligament fibroblasts exhibited 
enhanced migration along their native matrix when the fibers were 
oriented parallel to the direction of the field (EF //, Figure 1), and a 
majority of those moved toward to cathode (67 and 75% for ACL and 
MCL fibroblasts, respectively, in the blue shaded area in Figure 1). In 
the perpendicular group, most of the cells still migrated along the 
direction of the fiber (57 and 61% for ACL and MCL fibroblasts, 
respectively, in the grey shaded area in Figure 1), thus resulting in 
significantly smaller directed migration (toward the cathode) compared 
with the parallel group. Further analysis of directional velocity, i.e., 
velocity in the direction of the EF, showed enhanced migration only for 
the parallel group (Figure 2). Microscopic examination revealed 
spherical cell morphology in general regardless of fiber or applied EF 
orientation (Figure 3). 
 
Discussion 
Porcine knee ligament fibroblasts grown on their native matrices were 
found to exhibit enhanced migration when subjected to applied DC EF 
that was in the same direction as the fiber orientation. When the matrix 
was perpendicular to the EF direction, cells still migrated along the 
fibers, suggesting a priority of topographical cues on cell migration, 
confirming previous findings with corneal fibroblasts [6]. No significant 
differences were found between EF-induced migration of ACL and 
MCL fibroblasts; however, a EF strength of 6 V/cm was used in this 
study while a stronger enhancing effect had been observed at 2 V/cm 
with ACL fibroblasts [8]. In addition, there appear to be more variability 
in cell migration angle in ACL fibroblasts, which may be due to intrinsic 
cell differences or disparity in substrate fiber organization such as wave 
patterns (crimp) (Figure 4, [9,10]). We have previously demonstrated 
perpendicular alignment of ligament fibroblasts to applied EF on glass 
or collagen substrates [8]. Interestingly, no particular orientation was 
found on the native substrates under the same culture conditions (2 hour 
plating time, Figure 3), while under similar situations, corneal 
fibroblasts exhibited enhanced alignment [6]. Topographical cues from 
the fibers may slow cell spreading (as evident from cell size differences) 
and studies with longer plating and electrical stimulation in the future 
could provide further verification. The ability to direct and enhance cell 
migration offers a valuable tool for treatment strategies in wound 
healing and tissue engineering. 
 
 
Figure 1 Polar plot of ligament fibroblast translocation in applied EF for 
one hour. 
 
Figure 2 Directional velocity of ligament fibroblasts. (*p<0.05 vs no EF,       
**p<0.05 vs parallel EF, n=35-60) 
 
Figure 3 ACL fibroblast morphology after 2 hours with applied EF. 
Arrows indicate cells, bar = 50 m.  
 
Figure 4 SHG 
images of ACL and 
MCL collagen fiber 
crimp structure. Bar 
= 50 m.  
 
 
Acknowledgement 
This work was funded by the National Science Council of Taiwan (NSC 
97-2221-E-002 -214). 
 
References 
[1] Aaron RK+ Clin Orthop 2004;419:21-29. [2] Zhao M+ Invest 
Ophthalmol Vis Sci 1996;37:2548-2558. [3] Zhao M+ Proc Natl Acad 
Sci U S A 1999;96:4942-4946. [4] Brunette DM+ Exp Cell Res 
1986;164:11-26. [5] Baker BM+ Biomaterials 2007;28:1967-1977. [6] 
Rajnicek AM+ Biomaterials 2008;29:2082-2095. [7] Rajnicek AM+ 
Dev Biol 2007;312:448-460. [8] Chao P-HG+ Connect Tissue Res 
2007;48:188 – 197. [9] Nagineni CN+ J Orthop Res 1992;10:465-475. 
[10] Fadale P+ In: Schepsis AA, Busconi BD eds, Sports Med: 
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2006. 
37°C for 2 hours to release cellular adhesion, 
followed by gentle scraping. AMs were then 
preserved at -80°C in Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle 
Medium (DMEM) and glycerol at the ratio of 1:1 
(vol/vol). 
 
Electric Field Studies 
 
AMs or collagen-coated slides seeded with 
corneal epithelial cells were fitted into a 
galvanotaxis chamber as previously described [2]. A 
field-strength of 600mV/mm was established across 
the chamber. The temperature of the chamber is 
maintained at 37°C.  
 
Data Analysis 
 
Time-lapse images of the cell morphology and 
migratory response were digitally captured every 10 
min for a 2 hr period and the images were analyzed 
using Image J. Directional response of migration 
was described using cosine θ, where θ is the angle 
between the applied field direction and the vector 
drawn by the net cell translocation path. Angle zero 
(θ= 0°) is assigned to the positive pole. The 
parameters used to quantify cell migration in this 
study included: 
 
1. Average speed. 
2. Average directional velocity: cosine θ times 
speed.  
 
Statistical Analysis   
 
STATISTICA (StatSoft) was used to perform 
ANOVA and post-hoc tests (Turkey HSD) with 
=0.05. All bars represent 2-3 separate 
experiments, with 30-60 cells in each group. 
 
Results 
 
Bovine corneal epithelial cells migrate toward the 
cathode on both side of the AM and most 
collagen-coated glass slides in a 600 mV/mm DC 
field over a 2 hr period. The migration speed is 
significantly higher on 0.2 μg/cm² collagen-coated 
glass slide and the BM side of the AM. (Fig. 1) The 
average directional velocity, which represents the 
migration speed toward the cathode direction, is 
greatest on BM, followed by 0.2 μg/cm², 20 μg/cm², 
200 μg/cm², and 2 μg/cm² collagen (Fig. 2). Both 
BM and 0.2 μg/cm² collagen groups are significantly 
faster than the other four groups. 
 
Cell morphology is also distinct on different 
substrates (Fig. 3). On BM and 0.2 μg/cm² 
collagen-coated glass slides, cells tend to form 
spindle shapes. However, with increasing 
concentration of coated collagen or on the stroma, 
most cells do not form large lamellipodia and 
assume spherical shapes. 
 
 
Fig. 1 Migration speed on different substrates. 
(**p<0.05 vs stroma and 200, 20, 2 μg/cm²) 
 
 
Fig. 2 Directional velocity on different substrates. 
(**p<0.05 vs stroma and 200, 20, 2 μg/cm²) 
 
 
Fig. 3 Cell morphology on substrates: basement 
membrane side of AM (A), stromal side of AM (B), 
200μg/cm² collagen (C), 20μg/cm² collagen (D), 
2μg/cm² collagen (E), 0.2μg/cm² (F). Arrow 
indicates lamellipodia formation. Bar = 10μm. 
