 2
diffraction and low transmission light make it 
difficult to form a subwavelength beam. In 
addition, PBG structures need a thickness 
larger than one wavelength in order to 
confine light in the depth direction. Hence, 
patterns with high aspect ratios are necessary 
for the fabrication of PBG devices. Although 
some papers indicate the use of surface 
plasmon waves at the metal-air interfaces can 
generate hundred-nanometer structures, their 
exposure depths are quite shallow due to the 
short evanescent tail of surface plasmon 
waves. In general, the “metallic” photomask 
can not generate subwavelength PBG 
patterns with high aspect ratio. But we found 
photomasks made of “transparent” rod arrays 
can be used for producing high quality, 
subwavelength PBG patterns with arbitrary 
defects by using the edge diffraction effect. 
 
II. MODEL AND SIMULATIONS   
 It has been reported that sub 
hundred-nanometer lines can be produced by 
using phase-shift photolithography. In this 
lithography, the mask is consisted of a 
dielectric step. The step thickness causes 
180o phase difference between dielectric and 
air regions. There is a large discontinuity of 
phase at the edge, which results in an 
intensified optical field near the edge region. 
Figure 1(a) illustrates this phenomenon. The 
phase-shift technique has been applied to 
fabricate sub hundred-nanometer lines or 
crossed patterns by rotating the mask and 
doubling the exposures to the photoresist. 
Recently, we found light in such an 
air-dielectric step not only has strong 
intensity at the edge but also tends to bend to 
the dielectric region as seen in Fig. 1(a).] 
When width of the dielectric region is 
smaller than a wavelength, both edge 
diffracted beams from opposite edges will 
merge together. Due to the symmetrical 
pattern, the lateral wave-vectors are 
cancelled and a subwavelength beam 
emanated from dielectric region is formed. 
Figure 1(b) depicts the subwavelength 
focusing effect. This one-dimensional 
merged effect can be extended to 
two-dimensional subwavelength structures. 
For example, figure 1(c) shows edged 
diffracted beams merge together at 
subwavelength rods in a hexagonal PBG 
structure. These subwavelength focusing 
arrays can be used for generating hexagonal 
PBG patterns in a photoresist. The advantage 
of this photomask lithography is that 
two-dimensional PBG structures can be 
directly formed without rotating and multiple 
exposure processes as compared to previous 
phase-shift photolithography.  
 
Fig. 1 
 
 The focusing properties, such as 
focusing depth, width, and contrast between 
the rod and air regions, are key parameters 
for fabricating high quality PBG patterns. 
Besides, understanding the effect of defects 
in the hexagonal rod arrays is also important. 
We used three-dimensional finite-difference 
time-domain (FDTD) calculations to 
elucidate optical field distribution above the 
photomask. The FDTD directly differentiates 
the Maxwell’s equations without paraxial 
approximation. It is widely used to simulate 
propagation of light in nanometer structures. 
The grid sizes for x,y,z domains were 25nm. 
The time step cΔt was 12.5nm. The refractive 
indices for glass, air, rod and photoresist 
were 1.5, 1, 1.5 and 1.7+0.0016i, 
respectively. The periodic boundary 
 4
structure, some rods are taken away. Near the 
boundary of the defect region, lateral wave 
vectors in the direction of defect can not be 
eliminated. This results in an optical beam 
bending towards to the defect. When light 
propagates for a longer distance, the 
counter-wise lateral waves in the defect area 
form interference patterns as seen in Fig. 
4(c). 
 
Fig. 3 
 
III. NEAR-FIELD MEASUREMENT 
 Near-field scanning optical microscopy 
was used to measure optical near-field 
distribution above the photomask. 
Microscopy was conducted in the collection 
mode. A metallic coated tapered fiber, 
fabricated by wet etching method, collected 
the optical intensity near the sample surface. 
The distance between the fiber’s tip and 
sample surface was maintained by a 
non-optical shear-force feedback method. 
The details of the system are provided 
elsewhere. The photomask sample was a 
600nm-period hexagonal rod array on a glass 
substrate. It was prepared by using e-beam 
lithographic method. The rod was made of an 
electron resist, maN-2410 (micro resist 
technology). The maN-2410 is a negative 
electron resist. It is transparent with a 
refractive index close to 1.5. The width of the 
rod was 300nm and thickness of maN-2410 
rod was also 300nm. We used a laser with 
442nm wavelength to illuminate the 
photomask. 
 Figure 4(a) presents the topographic 
image of hexagonal air-rod arrays with a line 
defect. The width of the line was 1.2μm. 
Figure 4(b) shows the corresponding optical 
near-field image. Clearly, optical intensity is 
much higher in the rod region than that in air 
region as compared with the topographic 
image. The defect line is dark with intensity 
close to the air region. The optical near-field 
measurement confirms that subwavelength 
focused beams are emanated from the rods of 
the photomask, and the near-field distribution 
in the rod region is not affected by the defect. 
Fig. 4(d) shows that cross-section plot of the 
optical near-field distribution. The contrast 
between the rod region and the air region is 
higher than ten, consistent with the FDTD 
calculations. Figure 4(c) shows the optical 
image taken at ~1μm away form the sample 
surface. Periodic patterns still exist in the 
hexagonal air-rod regions. Nevertheless, 
there are apparent interference pattern in the 
defect area. From above FDTD simulations, 
the pattern in the defect area is generated by 
the interference of lateral waves from the 
defect boundaries. Fig. 4(e) shows that 
cross-section plot of the optical distribution. 
The contrast between the rod region and the 
air region is smaller than two. The intensity 
in the defect pattern has comparable intensity 
with the rod areas. Hence with the existence 
of defect, the effective exposure depth for the 
photomask is reduced.  
 
Fig. 4 
 
IV. PHOTOLITHOGRAPHIC RESULTS 
 FDTD calculations and NSOM 
measurement indicate that a photomask 
comprises submicron hexagonal air-rod 
arrays and designed defects can produce high 
optical contrast and subwavelength focused 
beams in the rod regions. These beams have 
aspect ratios larger than two, and thus can be 
used to produce high quality photoresist 
patterns.  We used a linearly polarized 
He-Cd laser (25mW@442nm) expanded to a 
 6
100nm-wide waveguide, the guiding ability 
is weak and the boundary effect dominates 
the optical distribution.   
 
Fig. 6 
 
 It is worthwhile to compare the 
near-field distributions between dielectric 
and metallic gratings. Fig. 6(d) shows the 
result for a 200nm–period aluminum grating 
for a TM wave. The gap in the grating is 
smaller than half of the incident wavelength. 
The TE wave is cut-off but the TM wave can 
propagate to slit openings via surface 
plasmon wave (SPW). For subwavelength 
photomask lithography, metallic masks have 
two major differences from dielectric masks. 
First, SPW propagates not only in the slits 
but also on the exit surface resulting in 
interference patterns on the exit metallic 
surface.4,10 The near-field is not well 
confined in the slit openings as seen in Fig. 
6(d). Compared to the metallic mask, optical 
near-fields are localized on the higher 
topographic regions of the dielectric mask. 
Second, part of the SPW lies in the metal 
resulting in a large loss of optical energy. In 
the dielectric mask, no optical absorption 
occurs. The optical intensity is thus stronger 
than in metallic mask. It should be noted if 
the metallic mask pattern is periodic, optical 
transmission can be greatly enhanced when 
its period and the incident wavelength satisfy 
the grating coupling condition. 
  
VI. PM-NSOM MEASUREMENT 
 The polarization anisotropy in 
transparent nanostructures was studied by 
PM-NSOM. In this system, a tapered fiber 
probe collected the optical near-field on the 
sample surface. The incident light was a 
75-watt Xenon lamp. A wavelength filter 
centered at 600nm and 10nm bandwidth 
selected the incident wavelength. A linear 
polarizer rotating at ω=140 Hz periodically 
changed polarization direction. The rotating 
frequency is much higher than pixel rate of 
the scan, ~60Hz.. A lock-in amplifier 
referenced at ω can read   polarization 
anisotropic and phase signals. It is noted that 
the initial polarization angle was set at TM 
direction in our measurement. In other words, 
θ is zero when TM wave has the maximum 
intensity and 90 degree when TE intensity is 
maximum. The sample was a 200nm-thick, 
500nm-period grating with 200nm-wide 
dielectric stripes. Fig. 7(a) shows the 
polarization anisotropic image, γ. Bright 
areas in γ image are the dielectric regions, 
while dark areas are in the air regions. This 
result indicates that the dielectric regions 
have stronger polarization anisotropy. Fig. 
7(b) shows the corresponding phase image. 
The dielectric and air regions have different 
preferred orientations. In topographically 
higher regions, the TE wave dominates the 
optical near-field, while in the air region, the 
TM wave dominates. These results are 
consistent with the FDTD calculations. The 
cross-section plots of γ and θ images are 
shown in Fig. 7(c). In topographically higher 
regions, γ is ~0.18 and θ ~90°. γ is ~0.04 and 
θ ~0° in the air region.  
 8
photonic bandgap structures with any 
designed defects. [2] We also proved that the 
resolution is up to λ/5. Sub100nm structures 
can be made by this method.[3] Recently, we 
further found a way to make a ultra small 
lens below one micron by using hexagonal 
nano holes in a transparent film.[4] We 
believe that transparent mesoscale structures 
are good photomasks for generating 
near-field for focusing light below diffraction 
limit. 
 
[1]. Wei-Lun Chang, Yu-Jen Chan, Pei Hsi 
Tsao, and Pei-Kuen Wei,* ”Fabricating 
Subwavelength Array Structures Using a 
Near-field Photolithographic Method” 
Applied Physics Letters, March 13, 
2006(*corresponding author)  
[2]. Wei-Lun Chang, Shieh-Li Chou, 
You-Ren Chang and Pei-Kuen Wei, 
“Fabrication of photonic bandgap structures 
with designed defects by edge diffraction 
lithography” Nanotechnology 17 ,2006, 
1333-1338(*corresponding author) 
[3]. Wei-Lun Chang, Pei-Hsi Tsao and 
Pei-Kuen Wei, “Sub-100nm 
Photolithography by Using TE-Polarized 
Waves in Transparent Nano Structures” 
Optics Letters (accepted) (*corresponding 
author) 
[4]. Wei-Lun Chang, Jun-Chien Lin and 
Pei-Kuen Wei*, “Fabrication, 
Characterization and Application of 
Submicron Lens Array” Submitted. 
(*corresponding author) 
 
