Abstract
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
Abstract
All-optical packet switching with optical buffers implemented by Fiber Delay Lines (FDLs) is a promising scheme
to meet high-capacity data transmission and avoid the bottleneck of optical-electrical-optical conversion. However,
optical buffers implemented by FDLs have a volatile nature due to signal loss and noise accumulation. Packets suffer
from excessive recirculation through FDLs, and they may be dropped eventually in their routing paths. Because of
this, packet scheduling becomes more difficult in FDL buffers than in RAM buffers, and requires additional design
considerations for reducing packet loss. This work proposes a latency-aware scheduling scheme and an analytical
model for all-optical packet switching networks with FDL buffers. The latency-aware scheduling scheme is intended
to minimize the packet loss rate of the networks by ranking packets in the optimal balance between latency and
residual distance. The analytical model is based on non-homogeneous Markovian analysis to study the effect of the
proposed scheduling scheme on packet loss rate and average delay. Furthermore, our numerical results show how
various network parameters affect the optimal balance, and demonstrate quantitatively how to achieve the proper
balance between latency and residual distance so that the network performance can be improved significantly.
Keywords: Stochastic analysis, Multi-hop packet scheduling, optical packet switching, optical buffering, fiber
delay line.
I. INTRODUCTION
Optical buffering implemented by FDLs has a volatile nature because of signal loss and noise accumulation
from optical components of FDL buffers. As pointed out by [1]–[3], crosstalk and noise from optical links, optical
switches, FDLs, Semiconductor Optical Amplifiers (SOAs) and Erbium-Doped Fiber Amplifiers (EDFAs) are the
main sources inducing signal loss and noise accumulation. Optical packets that are excessively recirculated in
FDL buffers may be eventually dropped due to serious signal loss as well as noise accumulation. The excessive
recirculation problem adversely degrades the performance of all-optical packet switching networks with FDL
buffers. Unfortunately, using a great number of regenerators in each optical packet switch to solve this problem is
economically infeasible at the present time. Many research works have been presented on reducing the local delay
induced by packet recirculation within a optical switch or multiplexer [4], [5]; however, they ignored the effect of
latency (accumulated delay) across several optical switches.
In this work, we propose a latency-aware scheduling scheme to mitigate the excessive recirculation problem. The
latency-aware scheduling scheme is a multi-hop packet scheduling scheme [6], [7], and regards the latency and
1
Fig. 1. An optical switch architecture for our study
(SDF) schemes are similar to special cases of (1) with ρ = −∞ and ρ =∞, respectively. We will use these basic
scheduling schemes to investigate how to determine the proper value of ρ for minimizing the packet loss rate in
Section IV.
III. OUR ANALYTICAL MODEL
In this section, we provide an analytical model to calculate the packet loss rate and average delay of all-optical
packet switching networks with the latency-aware scheduling algorithm. The packet loss rate is defined as the
probability that a packet is dropped in its routing path, and the average delay is defined as the expected value
of the latency of a packet that is eventually transmitted to its destination. The analytical model is based on non-
homogeneous Markovian analysis, and can be used on various scheduling schemes by replacing the priority function.
A. Network Configuration
This work considers an optical network constructed from synchronous photonic packet switches using FDL
buffers. To make our analytical model tractable, we assume the optical network with homogeneous switches of N
input and N outputs. Fig. 1 shows an optical switch architecture for our study on packet scheduling.
B. Overview
Our analytical model considers an all-optical packet switching network with FDLs buffers in which a queued
packet will be dropped if the sum of its residual distance and latency is greater than Lmax. Therefore, the model has
additional considerations on the distributions of the latency and residual distance of queued and arriving packets.
The model is based on the concept that these distributions are steady and in equilibrium. With this in mind, we
construct a Markov chain model with a double-loop structure to calculate the packet loss rate and the average delay.
Let PRq,Lq (r, l) be the steady state distribution of the latency and residual distance of a queued packet, and let
PRq,Lq (r, l) denote the one of the latency and residual distance of an arriving packet. Essentially, the Markov chain
is a stochastic process with the Markov property, meaning that the next state depends only on the current state but
not on any past states. According to the Markov property, we recursively update PRq ,Lq(r, l) and PRa,La(r, l) until
they converge, given their state transition probabilities. We list five main steps of our analytical model for easy to
understand it:
3
with a higher priority than Π(r, l). We use Prq(uq) and Pra(ua) to compute nx,Π(r,l) by
nx,Π(r,l) =
∑
uq
Prq(uq)
∑
ua
Pra(ua)
Prq(uq) =
∞∑
n=1
Q(n)
(
n
uq
)
pe(r, l)
uq (1 − pg(r, l)− pe(r, l))
n−uq (4)
Pra(ua) =
N∑
i=1
A(i)
(
i
ua
)
pae(r, l)
ua(1 − pag(r, l)− pae(r, l))
n−ua ,
where ua+uq ≥ 1; pe(r, l) and pg(r, l) are the probabilities that a queued packet has a priority higher than Π(r, l)
and equal to Π(r, l), and pae(r, l) and pag(r, l) are the probabilities that an arriving packet has a priority higher
than Π(r, l) and equal to Π(r, l), respectively.
nq,Π(r,l) is the expected number of queued packets with Π(r, l) in a queue. For computing nq,Π(r,l), we consider
how many queued and arriving packets with the same priority Π(r, l) at the current slot. Let Pr′q(ua) be the
probability function that the queue has uq queued packets with the same priority Π(r, l) and Pr′a(ua) be the
probability function that the queue has ua arriving packets with the same priority Π(r, l). Thus, nq,Π(r,l) can be
calculated by
nq,Π(r,l) =
∑
uq
Pr′q(uq)
∑
ua
Pr′a(ua)(uq + ua)
Pr′a(ua) =
N∑
i=1
A(i)
(
i
ua
)
pae(r, l)
ua(1− pae(r, l))
n−ua (5)
Pr′q(uq) =
∞∑
n=1
Q(n)
(
n
uq
)
pe(r, l)
uq (1− pe(r, l))
n−uq ,
where ua+ uq ≥ 1 and A(i) is the probability that the number of arriving packets at the queue is i during a given
slot. Finally, we compute px(r, l).
The state transition probabilities of PRq,Lq (r, l) include the three following cases: a queued packet departs, a
queued packet is dropped, and a queued packet experiences a FDL recirculation. For a queued packet in state (r, l)
where Lmax − l > r ≥ 1, it will transit to state (r′, l′) where (r′, l′) = (r, l+1), with probability 1− px(r, l), if it
experiences a FDL recirculation. Correspondingly, it departs with probability px(r, l). The rate of packet arriving
a queue equals the rate of packets leaving the queue in equilibrium, so we simplify the case by assuming that
a queued packet in state (r, l) departs with probability px(r, l) and a packet arrives the queue with steady state
distribution PRa,La(r, l). Furthermore, when a queued packet in state (r, l) where Lmax − l = r, it will depart
with probability px(r, l) or be dropped with probability 1 − px(r, l). Thus, the state transition probabilities from
PRq,Lq (r, l) to PRq ,Lq(r
′, l′) can be computed by

1− px(r, l) + px(r, l)PRa,La(r
′, l′) (if Lmax − l > r ≥ 1 and (r′, l′) = (r, l + 1))
px(r, l)PRa,La(r
′, l′) (if Lmax − l > r ≥ 1 and (r′, l′) 6= (r, l + 1))
(1− px(r, l))PRa,La(r
′, l′) + px(r, l)PRa,La(r
′, l′) (if Lmax − l = r).
(6)
5
• Step 2: Compute px(r, l) and construct Tq.
• Step 3: Let Pq = PqTq.
• Step 4: Compute Pd,Π(r,l)(k) and construct Ta.
• Step 5: Let Pa = PaTa.
• Repeat from Step 2 until Pq and Pa converge.
The computational method uses PR0,L0(r, l) to initialize PRq ,Lq(r, l) and PRa,La(r, l), and then calculate px(r, l)
for constructing Tq and Ta. Pq and Pa are updated by Pq = PqTq and Pa = PaTa. Finally, the computational
method repeat these steps until Pq and Pa converge.
After Pa and Pq converge, we can calculate the packet loss rate by an absorbing Markov chain using the state
transition probabilities of PRa,La(r, l). Let Ps(r, l) denote the steady state distribution of the latency and residual
distance of a new packet. Since a new packet with an initial state (r0, l0) will reach the destination with a final state
(0, l) or be dropped in the routing path, the absorbing Markov chain has two types of absorbing states, Ploss(r, l)
and Ps(0, l). Ploss(r, l) is the packet loss probability that a new packet is dropped along the routing path with
the final state (r, l), and Ps(0, l) is the probability that a new packet arrives its destination with the final state
(0, l). Considering the two types of absorbing states, we modify (7) to (8) for the state transition probabilities from
Ps(r, l) to Ps(r′, l′), Ploss(r, l), or Ps(0, l′).

Pd,Π(r,l)(k) ( if Lmax − l − r + 1 ≥ k ≥ 1, (r′, l′) = (r − 1, l + k) and k = l′ − l)
Pd,Π(r,l)(∞) (if (r′, l′)→ loss)
1− Pd,Π(r,l)(∞) (if r = 1 and (r′, l′)→ success).
(8)
Let Ps be the vector version of Ps(r, l) and Ts be the transition probability matrix. According to the Markov
property, we recursively update Ps by Ps = PsTs until Ps converges, and then compute Ploss, Rloss, and Ls by
Ploss =
∑
Ploss(r, l), Rloss =
∑
Ploss(r, l)r, and Ls =
∑
Ps(0, l)l, respectively. Especially to deserve to be
mentioned, the absorbing Markov chain is homogeneous because Pd,Π(r,l)(k) is given and constant. [10] provides
an alternative solution to the homogeneous Markov chain.
Finally, we consider the issue that significant packet loss may have a direct impact on the effective traffic load,
when packets start to be dropped; the transmission queue becomes shortened and the effective traffic load is reduced.
Some analytical models overestimate the packet loss rate because they do not consider this impact. When the
effective traffic load is reduced because of packet loss, the packet loss rate is also reduced. For enhancing accuracy,
we recursively updates λeff and Ploss to avoid overestimating the packet loss rat, and present the additional steps
of our analytical model using a double-loop structure:
• Step 6: Calculate Ploss, Rloss, and Ls.
• Repeat from Step 1 until Ploss converges.
IV. NUMERICAL ANALYSIS AND SIMULATION
In this section, we employ our analytical and simulation model to examine how the relative weights assigned to
the latency and the residual distance of a packet affect the performance of packet loss rate and average delay in
7
results in the three schemes and the First-In-First-Out scheduling scheme (FIFO).
(a) B = ∞ (b) B = 4
Fig. 3. Packet loss rates of simulation results in different schemes
Fig. 3(a) shows that LLF outperforms LDF, SDF, and FIFO in terms of packet loss rate. This is because a queued
packet will be dropped if the sum of its residual distance and latency is greater than Lmax, and a queued packet
with a long latency is easier to transmit than one with a short latency in LLF. LLF reduces the packet loss rate.
Next, Fig. 3(a) shows that LDF outperforms SDF and FIFO in terms of packet loss rate under low traffic load,
but doing the opposite under heavy traffic load. Under low traffic load, LDF is similar to LLF, because a new packet
with a long initial residual distance usually has a long latency when it has reached the destined node. However,
a queued packet with a short residual distance is difficult to transmit even if it has a long latency. This causes
an adverse effect on packet loss rate when the traffic load is heavy and the network is congested. By contrast, a
queued packet with a long residual distance is difficult to transmit in SDF, so SDF achieves larger Rloss than LDF.
According to (3), larger Rloss can considerably reduce effective traffic load and packet loss. Furthermore, Fig. 3(b)
shows the consistent results under B = 4. Therefore, SDF can reduce the packet loss rate under heavy traffic load.
D. Optimal Balance between Latency and Residual Distance
According to the results of the previous subsection, we make two important observations for minimizing the
packet loss rate. First, LLF (i.e., ρ = 0) and LDF (i.e., ρ = −∞) can reduce the packet loss rate when the traffic
load is light. Second, LLF and SDF (i.e., ρ = ∞) can reduce the packet loss rate when the traffic load is heavy.
Therefore, we use a negative ρ to combine the effect of LLF and LDF under low traffic load for minimizing the
packet loss rate, and use a positive relative-distance factor to combine the effect of LLF and SDF under heavy
traffic load.
Now, we intend to determine the proper value of ρ in our scheduling scheme for achieving the optimal balance
between latency and residual distance. Fig. 4(a), Fig. 4(b) and Fig. 5(a) illustrate packet loss rates of simulation
results in our scheduling scheme with various ρ and B = 4. We compute the packet loss rate for a series of ρ,
ranging from -1 to 1. These results help us find the optimal balance between latency and residual distance for
minimizing the packet loss rate.
In the case of light traffic load and Lmax = 15, Fig. 4(a) shows that the optimal value of ρ is equal to -0.5
when λ = 0.2; the optimal value of ρ is equal to -0.4 when λ = 0.3 and λ = 0.4. Therefore, we know that using a
9
shows that our scheduling scheme outperforms FIFO and LLF in terms of packet loss rate. Our scheduling scheme
is very effective for reducing packet loss when the traffic load is light. Under light traffic load, our scheduling
scheme achieves a packet loss rate 71% lower than the one of LLF. Even if the traffic load is heavy and equal to
0.9, the packet loss rate of our scheduling scheme is still 4% lower than the one of LLF in Fig. 5(b).
V. CONCLUSIONS
We have proposed a latency-aware scheduling scheme and an analytical model for all-optical packet switching
networks with FDL buffers. We focus on the optimization of a relative-distance factor, ρ, which represents the
relative weights assigned to the latency and the residual distance of a packet to determine its priority in the
latency-aware scheduling scheme. The optimal value of ρ minimizes the packet loss rate of the all-optical packet
switching networks. The proposed analytical model is based on a non-homogeneous Markov chain using a double-
loop structure. We use the analytical model to analyze the performance of our scheduling scheme in terms of packet
loss rate and average delay. Furthermore, the proposed analytical model is accurate and effective for a wide range
of network configurations.
Our numerical results show how various network parameters affect the choice of ρ for minimizing the packet
loss rate. In the case of light traffic load, the latency is a more important factor and the optimal value of ρ is a
negative number. The optimal value of ρ increases as the traffic load or the latency limit increases. The effects of
residual distance and latency on the performance are different from common heuristics. Our study demonstrates
quantitatively that the latency-aware scheduling scheme with the optimal value of ρ can lead to significant reduction
in packet loss rate.
REFERENCES
[1] E. F. Burmeister and J. E. Bowers, “Integrated gate matrix switch for optical packet buffering,” IEEE Photonics Technology Letters, vol. 18,
no. 1, pp. 103–105, Jan. 2006.
[2] A. Uskov, F. Sedgwick, and C. Chang-Hasnain, “Delay limit of slow light in semiconductor optical amplifiers,” Photonics Technology
Letters, IEEE, vol. 18, no. 6, pp. 731–733, 15, 2006.
[3] E. Yamazaki, F. Inuzuka, K. Yonenaga, A. Takada, and M. Koga, “Compensation of interchannel crosstalk induced by optical fiber
nonlinearity in carrier phase-locked wdm system,” Photonics Technology Letters, IEEE, vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 9–11, Jan.1, 2007.
[4] A. Als, Z. Ghassemlooy, G. Swift, P. Ball, and J. Chi, “Performance of the passive recirculating fiber loop buffer within an otdm transmission
link,” Optics Communications, vol. 209, no. 1-3, pp. 137–147, 2002.
[5] J. Cheng, C.-S. Chang, T.-H. Chao, D.-S. Lee, and C.-M. Lien, “On constructions of optical queues with a limited number of recirculations,”
in Proc. INFOCOM 2008. The 27th Conference on Computer Communications. IEEE, Apr. 13–18, 2008, pp. 664–672.
[6] V. Alaria, A. Bianco, P. Giaccone, E. Leonardi, F. Neri, and C. Syst, “Multi-hop scheduling algorithms in switches with reconfiguration
latency,” in High Performance Switching and Routing, 2006 Workshop on, 2006, p. 6.
[7] B. Liang and M. Dong, “Packet prioritization in multihop latency aware scheduling for delay constrained communication,” IEEE Journal
on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 819–830, May 2007.
[8] T. Zhang, K. Lu, and J. R. Jue, “Shared fiber delay line buffers in asynchronous optical packet switches,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas
in Communications, vol. 24, no. 4, pp. 118–127, Part Supplement,&pr 2006.
[9] M. Karol, M. Hluchyj, and S. Morgan, “Input versus output queueing on a space-division packet switch,” Communications, IEEE
Transactions on, vol. 35, no. 12, pp. 1347–1356, Dec 1987.
[10] A. Papoulis and S. Pillai, Probability, random variables, and stochastic processes. McGraw-Hill, 2002.
11
本次出席的國際會議是 The Second International Conference on 
Ubiquitous and Future Networks (ICUFN2010)，此會議是由 IEEE、Springer
與 KICS 等組織合辦，前屆大會 ICUFN2009 的論文錄取率僅 30.7%，可看出
ICUFN 是一個重視研究品質與嚴謹的研討會，本次大會分為 15 個 Session，
我在 QoS/QoE Provisioning (Session 3B)進行論文的發表，論文題目是以
封包排程法為主，提供一個新的優先等級化封包的排程法，來達到降低封包
在通過光封包交換網路時所產生的延遲，並具有可調的特性，Session 主持
人 Dr. Ryoichi 認為我們所提出的方法簡單有效、而且在分析上很嚴謹，我
也從現場的提問獲取許多此研究需補充的觀點，如這樣的方法在實際網路流
量的測試下是否仍然有效，這些觀點我們將會應用在後續的研究上。 
此外我也參與的其他的 Session，如 ITS & Vehicular Ad-hoc networks
與 Mesh and Multi-hop Networking 等 session，參與這些 session 可了解
到目前網路各領域的發展現況，且與現場的學者互動也讓我獲益良多。 
二、與會心得 
這是我第二次參與國際性的研討會，在報告上由於已有經驗，所以
報告的速度、咬字與描述方式都有調整，以確保聽眾能夠了解，所以最
後在問答時間有更多的聽眾願意提出問題與回饋，這對於我是很大的鼓
勵。與外國學者的對談雖然仍有隔閡，但與上次相比已有許多進步，與
多位學者進行了討論與交換名片。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
