報告內容 
Abstract 
This investigation proposes a modified technique for manufacturing closed-cell aluminum foams to reduce the cost of 
production of foaming agents during the casting and foaming process. The addition of foaming agents promotes the 
uniformity of cell sizes and controls the viscosity of the melting aluminum alloy. Moreover, this work elucidates the 
mechanical characteristics of closed-cell aluminum foams under compressive loading. Discussions cover the compressive 
stress-strain curve, densification strain and energy absorption effects of various specimens with various porosities. 
Furthermore, the thermal conductivity of the aluminum foams is determined, and the results compared with some 
theoretical predictions. The optimum parameters for meeting some tendentious and practical design requirements, such as 
those of impact absorption and thermal insulation design applications, are discussed. Finally, an empirical correlation 
between normalized yield strength and relative densities is obtained. 
Keywords Aluminum foams · Mechanical characteristics · Thermal conductivity 
 
1 Introduction 
Cellular materials are lightweight and readily set. Porous metallic materials can endure high temperature, are highly 
structurally stiff, resist corrosion well, and protect against electromagnetic radiation. Accordingly, they have a variety of 
applications in various industrial fields [1–5]. Examples include as fireproof materials, impact absorbers in automobiles, 
sound absorbers ,and damping insulation sandwich panels in buildings.  
Recently, numerous theoretical and experimental studies upon closed-cell aluminum foams have been undertaken. Santosa 
andWierzbicki [6] analytically and numerically investigated the crushing behavior of closed-cell aluminum foams. 
Mccullough et al. [7] analyzed the tensile and compressive stress-strain behavior of closed-cell aluminum alloy foams. Paul 
and Ramamurty [8] experimentally examined the strain rate sensitivity of closed-cell aluminum foams at room temperature 
under compression. Dannemann and Lankford [9] studied the compressive deformation behavior of open and closed-cell 
aluminum foams under static and dynamic loading conditions. Hall et al. [10] also determined the quasi-static and high 
strain rate compression behavior of Al closed-cell foams, clarifying the mechanism of deformation mechanism during 
crushing. Andrew et al. [11] and Chino et al. [12] experimentally analyzed the specimen size on selected mechanical 
properties of Al foams. Mots and Pippan [13] elucidated the fracture behavior and fracture toughness of closed-cell Al 
foams, and employed SEM to identify the fracture process and measure local deformation. Mukai et al. [14] studied the 
energy absorption of closed-cell aluminum foams. Miyoshi et al. [15] examined the effects of plateau stress and energy 
absorption on ALPORAS and conventional ALPORAS specimens. Feng et al. [16] investigated the electrical conductivity 
of closed-cell aluminum alloy foams with various relative densities and cell diameters.  
However, thermo physical studies are relatively scarce. Peak et al. [17] experimentally determined the effective thermal 
conductivity and permeability of aluminum foam materials. Bhattacharya et al. [18] presented a comprehensive analytical 
and experimental investigation to determine the effective thermal conductivity, permeability, and inertial coefficient of 
high-porosity metal foams. Feng et al. [19] measured the thermal conductivity of aluminum alloy foams, and discussed the 
effects on it of cell size and relative density. 
This study investigates the manufacturing techniques used in the aluminum foaming process, and analyzes mechanical 
properties under uniaxial, quasi-static compressive loading. It also addresses the effects of porosity upon thermal 
conductivity. The goal is to determine appropriate design parameters for different industrial applications, and further 
develop some empirical correlations of these aluminum foams for research and design. 
 
2 Material manufacturing 
The conventional process for foaming closed-cell aluminum foams involves uniformly mixing aluminum melts with 
7. Cooling setting: At the end of the foaming process, the aluminum plate is cooled at a suitable rate. The foam 
aluminum alloy will contract when cooled, facilitating extraction from the molds. The bubbles are small so the interior 
contraction of the aluminum alloy is even and without cracking.  
 
3 Experimental apparatus and methods 
3.1 Testing mechanical characteristics 
A servo hydraulic INSTRON type 8802 dynamic fatigue test machine was employed herein, following the ASTM E9-89a 
standards. A uniaxial, quasi-static compressive characteristics test was performed for different specimens with various 
porosities. The compression test involved various deformation-compressive strains. The compressive strains are 10, 20, 30, 
and 40%, respectively. The closed-cell aluminum foam specimen in this study is 30 mm diameter ×25 mm ht. 
Thermal conductivity was measured according to the JIS-A-1412-2 standards using the plate heat flow meter method. The 
bottom of Fig. 1 depicts a bakelite material slab for thermal insulation. The power supply provides stable electric power to 
heat the hot plate underneath it. The cool plate on the top is supposed to conduct the heat away to ensure the accuracy of 
the experiment. A testing plate is placed between the hot plate and the cool plate, and a heat flow meter sensor is placed on 
the testing plate; the sensor measures the heat flux that passes through the testing plate. From Fourier’s law of conduction, 
 
When the system reaches stability, the temperatures at the top and the bottom of the testing plate are measured using 
thermal couples respectively, and the thermal conductivity is determined. 
 
4 Results and discussion 
4.1 Observation of cells 
At the beginning of this experiment, the cellular structures of the surface of the uncompressed aluminum alloy were 
observed. Figure 2 demonstrates the cellular appearance before and after the aluminum foams were compressed, with φ = 
90.44%. The experimental results reveal that before compression, each closed-cell is independent of the others and has 
unbroken walls (Fig. 2a), but after compression with 40% strain, the walls had clearly collapsed and were twisted (Fig. 2b). 
 
 
and Ashby [20] derived the (σP/σS) formula for closed-cell aluminum foams (Eq. 2). Equations 3 and 4 represent some 
other theoretical predictions [21–23]. 
 
 
The two results of Eq. 4 are almost the same. Andrew et Al. [24] and Simone and Gibson [25] generalized Eq. 4 as follows. 
 
The results of this study are similar to other theoretical predictions, especially in the range 0 ≤ (ρ∗/ρS) ≤ 0.1. The 
experimental data obtained herein can be fitted by a power law. 
 
Lu and Ong [26] also described closed-cell SEU foams, used in Eq. 7, which is highly consistent with the results herein. 
 
In recent studies, Eq. 3 has yielded results as much as two to three times those obtained using Eqs. 2 and 5, mainly because 
Eq. 2 was developed by assuming that the cell edges and faces were uniformly thick [21], and that morphological defects 
could be neglected, particularly those of non-planarities in the wall, such as curves and wiggles [8].  
 
4.3 Densification strain, εD 
In practice, determining εD is difficult. Theoretically, when the strain is underεD, the curve is in the plateau stage; when 
it exceeds εD, it is in the densification stage. However, for cellular materials, the slope of the plateau stage usually does 
not differ noticeably from that in the densification stage [8]. In Fig. 4, when 72.86% ≤ φ ≤ 90.25%, the two slopes 
clearly differ.When φ = 66.43%, determining εD is difficult. A comparison between the εD values for various 
porosities given by Eq. 8 with results elsewhere [20, 26, 27] reveals that the values of α and β in this study are 0.773 
 
 
 
