1 Introduction
In recent years, manufacturing technology has changed significantly. Product life-cycles are shorter and
requirements of product quality are higher. Moreover, customized to order (CTO) and build-to-order (BTO)
environments have become quite common in industries such as personal computer and consumer electronics
manufacturing. Due to this fact, producing multiple product types on a single production line has become
more prevalent [1]. To enable this companies have turned to flexible resources (cross-trained workers or
flexible machines) coupled with strategically designed material handling systems. In essence, the resources
can handle several product types and the material handling systems route work in the appropriate manner
depending on the current network configuration. Moreover, compared to traditional systems with dedicated
machines, the flexible systems can reduce capital investment when the production line is upgraded or the
product mix is changed.
The current problem is how to use a flexible system more efficiently and hence most cost-effectively [2].
Although solving the optimal flexible manufacturing system operation problem can reduce machine failure
recovery costs and initial capital investment, building excess capacity in dedicated systems is still often used
to mitigate the machine reliability issues. By using existing flexible resources dynamically, we propose a
new approach to reduce the recovery cost of machine failures, while improving system throughput rates
and reducing the manufacturing lead times.
In addition to costs and throughput rates, a good resource allocation policy must be easy to implement
and easy to calculate in large systems. Static resource allocation policies in the literature are usually easy to
implement and calculate, but static policies fail to consider system dynamics such as real time buffer levels
and server status. Because system dynamics are ignored, static policies usually have higher inventory
holding costs and lower throughput rates. On the other hand, in small systems, dynamic resource allocation
policies can achieve optimal throughput rates or inventory holding costs by considering real time server
failures and buffer levels. Although dynamic resource allocation is more robust, extending small system
optimal policies to large systems remains unclear. To date, most dynamic resource allocation research
considers only two stations and less than two flexible servers. Moreover, most of this research ignores
server reliability considerations. Our research fills the gap between the static and dynamic approaches of
resource allocation by developing an easily implementable and simple to calculate dynamic policy for large
systems.
To solve dynamic resource allocation problems, Markov decision processes (MDPs) is a most powerful
tool. Unfortunately, the usefulness of MDPs is limited due to the “curse of dimensionality”. Most re-
search of optimal allocation policies studies systems with only a few stations (usually 2) and a few servers
(usually less than or equal to the number of stations). In the particular case where reliability is consid-
ered under the average holding cost criterion, the system is even less tractable. In order to overcome the
dimensionality restrictions, we prove that transition monotone policies are average cost optimal in a two-
station tandem queueing system with reliability considerations. Based on the intuition obtained from the
2
Server (1,1)
failed
Server (1,2)
Server (2,1)
Server (2,2)
failed
Server (N,1)
Server (N,2)
Server (r,1) Server (r,2) Server (r,3)
Dynamic Reconfigurable Resources Allocation
Figure 1: An example of an N-station serial line with flexible servers
single job; the service rates are additive. The state space is then
S = {q1, q2, ..., qN ,m1,1,m1,2...,m1,M1 ,m2,1, ...
mN−1,MN−1 ,mN,1, ...,mN,MN ,mr,1, ...,mr,Mr},
where qk is the queue length at station k, including the customer currently in service (if qk ≥ 1) and
mk,` ∈ {0 : failed, 1 : operational} is the status of server (k, `). Let Π be the set of all non-idling, non-
anticipating (measurable) policies. Each policy describes where the flexible resources should be allocated
for all states, for all time.
3 Outline of Results
Throughput optimality of general scheduling policies: Let λ∗ be the optimal throughput rate that
is defined in [3]. λ∗ can be obtained by solving a linear programming problem. The first result shows that
any arrival rate greater than λ∗ results in an unstable system, no matter what the scheduling policy. Let
qk(t) be the queue length at station k at time t.
Proposition 3.1 If λ > λ∗, with probability one,
∑N
k=1 qk(t)→∞ as t→∞. Consequently, the long-run
average cost is infinite.
Suppose now that the flexible servers are either generalist or identical. Consider the following assump-
tion.
Assumption (LQ). There exists a threshold L < ∞ such that if qk(t) ≥ L for at least one k, then at time
t the flexible servers are all serving stations with queue length at least γqmax(t) where 0 < γ ≤ 1 and
4
a. Let s′ = (qn, qn+1, (mn,1, ...,mn,Mn), (mn+1,1, ...,mn+1,Mn+1), (mr,1, ...,mr,Mr)). Find the
optimal two-station action for state s′ in the lookup table pin∗(s′).
b. If the optimal two-station action in (2)a is to allocate the flexible server at the upstream station,
then go to step (3). Otherwise, go to step (2)c.
c. If n = N − 1 , then let n = N and go to step (3). Otherwise, let n = n+ 1 and go to step (2)a.
• (3) Allocation. Allocate the flexible server to station n.
In 400 randomly selected serial production systems, TPU was compared with other heuristic policies
in literature. On average, TPU can reduce average inventory holding costs by 50% while the average
throughput rate is improved by 3%- 25%.
In Figure 2, categorized by system utilization, we plot the average holding costs of TPU and several
other heuristics from literature. Note that RR1 and RR2 are two round robin policies [3] while TPD, UPF,
and DTF consider policies that allocate all flexible machines where machine failures have occurred, to the
upstream stations first and to the downstream stations first, respectively.
Average Holding Costs v.s. Utilization
0
20
40
60
80
100
0.6 - 0.7 0.7 - 0.8 0.8 - 0.9 0.9 - 1.0
Utilization
%
 o
f  t
h e
 U
p p
e r
 B
o u
n d
TPU
TPD
UPF
DTF
TRS
RR1
RR2
Figure 2: Bounded holding costs and system utilization
While TPU significantly reduces average inventory holding costs, average throughput rate is also im-
proved by TPU. In Figure 3 the average throughput rates of TPU and other heuristics from literature are
plotted. The improvement is especially significant when the utilization is high.
To verify the performance improvement of TPU under service time distributions with greater variance,
we conducted a smaller simulation study of 100 randomly generated systems with 0.6 ≤ ρ ≤ 1.0. For each
of the 100 randomly generated systems, we let the service time distribution be first the gamma distribution
with β = 3 and second the truncated normal distribution with σ = 0.5. The truncated normal distribution
is made symmetric. For example, if 1/µ is the mean service time, a random variable between 0 and 2/µ is
6
intractable. This is due to the well-known “curse of dimensionality” that limits the applicability of Markov
decision processes. To alleviate this problem, we introduced a class of heuristics based on the two-station
model that performs well under the average holding cost criterion. Somewhat surprisingly, the same class of
policies performs well under the average throughput criterion despite the fact that the policies are developed
for average holding costs.
In the special case when there are no dedicated servers at the first station, we show the existence of
optimal transition monotone policies in the two-station model. Since several MDPs must be solved to
implement our heuristics, this stands to reduce the computational requirements by allowing the decision-
maker to restrict attention to a smaller set of policies.
The general two-pairing idea was not fully explored. In essence TPU weights upstream stations higher
than downstream. We could have searched for different weight functions based on the system parameters. In
cases where TPU does not perform well, we believe that this is a promising direction for future research.We
believe that by strategically placing decision epochs, we can use these approximations to develop tractable
MDP models and thus tractable and implementable policies. This work is ongoing.
5 Publications
a. Cheng-Hung Wu, Douglas Down and Mark E. Lewis, “Heuristics for Allocation of Reconfigurable
Resources in a Serial Line with Reliability Considerations”, IIE Transactions , Vol. 40(6), 595-611,
2008.
References
[1] W. Narongwanich, I. Duenyas, and J. Birge, “Optimal portfolio of reconfigurable and dedicated capac-
ity under uncertainty,” 2003, preprint.
[2] S. Andradottir, H. Ayhan, and D. G. Down, “Dynamic server allocation for queueing networks with
flexible servers,” Operations Research, vol. 51, no. 6, pp. 952–968, 2003.
[3] S. Andrado´ttir, H. Ayhan, and D. Down, “Compensating for failure with flexible servers,” 2005, sub-
mitted.
[4] C. Wu, M. Lewis, and M. Veatch, “Dynamic allocation of reconfigurable resources in a two-stage
tandem queueing system with reliability considerations,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control,
vol. 51, no. 2, pp. 309–314, February 2006.
[5] C. Wu, D. Down, and M. Lewis, “Heuristics for allocation of reconfigurable resources in a serial line
with reliability considerations,” IIE Transactions, vol. 40, no. 6, pp. 595 – 611, June 2008.
8
 2
 2008 Institute of Industrial Engineers Annual Conference and Expo 
Vancouver, BC, Canada, 2008/05/17 – 2008/05/21 
Cheng-Hung Wu,  
Institute of Industrial Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, TAIWAN 
一、 會議簡介 
IIE Annual Conference and Expo為工業工程領域最大型研討會之一。參與此次國際工業工程學
會所主辦之研討會除可提高研究成果之國際能見度，也可與相關領域頂尖學者交換未來研究方向與
趨勢之心得及意見。此次研討會共計發表四百餘篇各工業工程領域之相關研究成果。除我國學術研
究機構外，其餘參與論文發表學術機構尚包含： University of Michigan–Ann Arbor, University of 
California – Berkeley, Stanford University, Georgia Institute of Technology, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology 等數十所工業工程領域之重要大學。 
二、 與會心得 
此次 IIE Annual Conference and Expo 2008 舉行地點為加拿大之溫哥華（Vancouver, BC, 
Canada），會議時間為 2008/05/17~ 2008/05/21，共計五日。除擔任 session chair並發表論文外，會
議中計畫經費申請人也就目前蓬勃發展之健康照護產業與半導體產業之未來發展趨勢與工業工程
方法之應用，與關學者交換想法與意見。參與意見交換之學者部分列舉如下：Prof. Mark Lewis, 
Cornell University; Prof. Julie Ivy, North Carolina State University; Prof. Reha Uzsoy, North Carolina 
State University; Prof. Lawrence Seiford, University of Michigan–Ann Arbor, Prof. Martin Puterman, 
University of British Columbia等。 
參加此次 2008年 IIE年會，個人最大的心得是應積極尋求與建立與國際學術界與產業界聯結。
此種研究發表與交流國際化過程中，第一可以了解全世界主要關切研究議題或是趨勢為何，對於尋
求新的研究題目與從事主流研究的學者，將可提供具體的方向。舉例來說，國外相當著重醫療與服
務系統(health and service systems)相關議題，但此一領域目前在國內仍未達到成熟之研究階段，甚
至以往提過之精簡生產(lean production)也在此次大會中成為主要討論主題之一，都有利於國內學者
注意與持續投入研究。參與國際會議也可將台灣的研究與產業問題，利用國際會議場合加以彰顯，
 4
四、 論文發表摘要 2：Production and Transportation Planning in a Thin Film 
Transistor - Liquid Crystal Display (TFT-LCD) Production Chain 
 
In this research, a two-stage recourse stochastic programming model is developed to solve the 
production and transportation planning problems in a Thin Film Transistor - Liquid Crystal Display 
(TFT-LCD) production chain. In the TFT-LCD production chain, the upstream Array-Cell production 
stage and downstream Module assembly stage are usually located in different geographical areas due to 
their different resource requirements. The capital-intensive Array-Cell facilities produce cell glass panels 
of different display resolutions and sizes. The labor-intensive Module facilities assemble cell glass panels 
into customized final TFT-LCD modules. Due to the long production/transportation lead time of the 
Array-Cell production process, it takes make-to-stock (push type) production strategy. On the contrary, 
the Module assembly process faces high demand/price uncertainties and usually takes make-to-order (pull 
type) production strategy. 
We develop a two-stage recourse stochastic programming model to capture important characteristics 
of the push/pull mixing TFT-LCD production chain. The objective is to minimize the total expected 
production, transportation, shortage, and inventory holding costs. The proposed stochastic programming 
model generates production/transportation plans that are robust to demand and price uncertainties. In 
extensive numerical studies, we verify the robustness of this model under different demand and price 
distributions. 
 
五、 考察參觀活動 
此次大會共舉辦多個自費參觀活動，包含 facility tour與 city tours。其中 facility tour將參觀 Eagle 
Ridge Hospital、Mustang Survival Gear、ACTS Maintenance、Alco Ventures Inc.，以及 Coast Mountain 
Bus Company等行程，但礙於行程時間限制未能實際參與。 
 6
3. James A. Tompkins, Ph.D., President and CEO, Tompkins Associates 
4. Michael T. Duke, Vice chairman, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. 
5. Richard J. Schonberger, Ph.D., President, Schonberger & Associates 
 
論文主要涵蓋領域 
1. Production Planning and Scheduling 
2. Operations Research 
3. Quality Control and Reliability 
4. Human Factors and Ergonomics 
5. Computer and Information Systems 
6. Logistics and Inventory 
7. Engineering Management 
8. Modeling and Simulation 
9. Engineering Education 
10. Health and Service Systems 
11. Lean Systems  
12. Facility Logistics 
13. Homeland Security 
14. Systems Engineering 
15. Manufacturing and Design 
16. Engineering Economics 
17. Construction 
 
業界應用成果 
1. Lean 
2. Process Industries 
3. Work Measurement 
 8
7  p.m. - 10 p.m. Honors and Awards dinner and dessert reception 
 
2008/5/19, MONDAY 
TIME EVENT 
7 a.m. - 6 p.m. Conference registration open 
7  a.m. - 8 a.m. Continental breakfast 
7 a.m. - 8 a.m. Student faculty advisor breakfast meeting 
8 a.m. - 9:15 a.m. Keynote presentation 
8 a.m. - 11 a.m. Enterprise Management Forum 
9:30 a.m - 6 p.m. Concurrent sessions 
9:30 a.m - 6 p.m. IERC poster session 
9: 30 a.m. - 4 p.m. Exhbit Hall open 
1:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Student track 
12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. Keynote presentation 
5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Student networking mixer 
6 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. Welcome reception 
  
2008/5/20, TUESDAY 
TIME EVENT 
7 a.m. - 6 p.m. Conference registration open 
7 a.m. - 8 a.m. Continental breakfast 
8 a.m. - 9:15 a.m. Keynote presentation 
9:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Facility tour - Mustang Survival Gear 
Facility tour - Fraser Health Authority, Eagle Ridge 
Hospital 
9:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Concurrent sessions 
9:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. IERC poster session 
9:30 a.m. - 7 p.m. Exhibit Hall open 
12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. Keynote presentation 
1:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Facility tour - Oce Display Graphics 
4 p.m. -  6 p.m. International Forum 
6 p.m. - 7 p.m. Networking social 
 
2008/5/21, WEDNESDAY 
TIME EVENT 
7 a.m. - 4 p.m. Conference registration open 
8 a.m. - 4 p.m. Concurrent sessions 
9:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Facility tour - ACTS Maintenance 
