 2
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
▓ 已獲得請專利  ▓ 可技術移轉          日期：96 年 10 月 20 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：TFT-LCD 產業的基板配對與排序機派工決策 
計畫主持人：巫木誠       
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－009－190－       
學門領域：工業工程與管理 
技術/創作名稱 用於製程中機板配對方法 中華民國發明專利公開編號：200712603 
發明人/創作人 巫木誠、張東華、王君豪 
中文： 
本發明是處理 TFT-LCD 工廠 Array 和 Cell 部門連結階段，
排序機的機版配對方法，此方法可有效提高配對良率，並
且降低生產週期時間。 
 
 技術說明 
英文： 
This patent is intended to solve a plate matching problem that 
occurs in the interface between the array manufacturing stage 
and the cell manufacturing stage. The use of this method could 
effectively increase the yield and reduce the cost.  
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
TFT-LCD 製造產業 
技術特點 
提高配對良率、降低加工時間 
推廣及運用的價值 有效降低成本 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 
貴單位研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 4
process, and module process (Toshihisa 1996). The array process is to manufacture 
transistors on a plate, which is called a TFT-plate (thin film transistor plate). The cell 
process is to combine a TFT-plate with a CF-plate (color filter plate), by forming them 
as a pair and filling in liquid crystal between the gap of the two plates. The resulting 
pair of plates is called a TFT-LCD plate. CF-plate is a device manufactured by another 
process or outsourced from vendors. A TFT-LCD plate is subsequently sliced into 
several parts, called panels. Each TFT-LCD plate typically involves 10-30 panels. The 
module process is to assemble the other components on TFT-LCD panels. 
Of the three processes, the cell process is most critical in terms of yield. The yield 
of a TFT-LCD plate can be quite low due to the mismatch of its TFT-plate and CF-plate. 
As shown in Fig.1, both the TFT-plate and the CF-plate are 50% in yield. Yet, the 
resulting TFT-LCD plate is only 25% in yield, with only one good panel.  
In the shop floor, TFT-plates and CF-plates are generally processed and 
transported in batch, whose container is called a cassette. Suppose there are N cassettes 
for TFT and CF, and each cassette contains n plates. The possible combination of 
plate-mapping is )!( nN ⋅ . How to select an optimal combination from the )!( nN ⋅  
alternatives to maximize yield is called a plate-mapping problem. Yang (2003) used 
Hungarian method (Kuhn 1955) to solve the problem.  
After the plate-mapping decision, each CF-plate is associated with a TFT-plate and 
they are mutually called matched-plates. Consider a scenario where the plate 
configuration of each CF cassette is kept unchanged. To facilitate operation of the cell 
process, the plates in TFT cassettes have to be relocated so that each of the newly 
formed TFT cassettes exactly matches a CF cassette. Such a TFT cassette is called the 
target cassette of the CF cassette. Reversely, relocating CF cassettes rather than TFT 
cassettes can likewise achieve the cassette-matching operation. 
The operation of relocating TFT-plate is performed by a sorter. As shown in Fig. 2, 
a sorter consists of a robot and several ports that are used to carry cassettes and are 
divided into two types. The input ports accommodate the TFT cassettes whose plates are 
to be relocated. The robot moves plates from input ports to output ports. The resulting 
TFT cassette in the output port is a target cassette. 
Yang (2004) proposed a two-stage approach to solve the plate-mapping problem. 
He first developed a genetic algorithm to divide cassettes into several groups and solved 
the plate-mapping problem within each group by the Hungarian method. His method 
can effectively reduce the number of loading/unloading operation of a sorter. However, 
the resulting yield of such a plate-mapping is not optimal. 
After the plate mapping decision, the matched plates of a CF cassette may be 
 6
 
2.1 Notation  
Indices 
k: the index of TFT cassette 
m: the index of CF cassette 
i: the index of TFT-plate 
j: the index of CF-plate 
Parameters 
N: total number of CF/TFT cassettes 
n: total number of plates in a cassette 
p: the number of panels in a plate 
H: a very large positive number  
ω: a very small positive integer 
kimja : the mapping yield of i-th plate in k-th TFT cassette and j-th plate in m-th CF 
cassette, ni ≤≤1 , nj ≤≤1 , Nk ≤≤1 , Nm ≤≤1  
 
Variables 
kimjx : a binary variable, kimjx  = 1 denotes that i-th plate in k-th TFT cassette is mapped 
to j-th plate in m-th CF cassette; otherwise 0=kimjx , 
ni ≤≤1 , nj ≤≤1 , Nk ≤≤1 , Nm ≤≤1  
kmq : a binary variable, kmq = 1 if k-th TFT cassette has one or more plate which is 
mapped to a plate in m-th CF cassette; otherwise, kmq = 0, Nk ≤≤1 , Nm ≤≤1 . 
M = ∑∑
= =
N
m
N
k
kmq
1 1
: total number of composition members for a plate-mapping solution  
nN
xa
Y
N
k
N
m
n
i
n
j
kimjkimj
×=
∑∑∑∑
= = = =1 1 1 1 ,  the average yield of a plate-mapping solution 
 
2.2 Model 
 8
  
3. Problem and Method 
This section describes the research problem and the proposed solution method, a 
genetic algorithm.   
 
3. 1 Problem Description 
The plate-mapping decision, solved by Chang (2005), provides a mapping from 
CF cassette to TFT cassette. Fig. 4 shows a cassette-mapping matrix in which the 
composition members for each CF cassettes are explicitly displayed. For example, 
cassette CF-1 has eight composition members. In order to produce the target cassette of 
CF-1, the eight composition members must be loaded onto the sorter. 
Given a cassette-mapping matrix, this research is to determine the 
loading/unloading sequence of TFT cassette so that the sorter can produce WIPs in time 
and its downstream cell process would not be underutilized due to lack of WIP. To avoid 
the downstream cell process from being starved, the ports of a sorter are so configured; 
only one is output port and the others are input ports. And a first-select-first-out 
production strategy is adopted. That is, if the sorter is producing a particular target 
cassette, then any other ones cannot be produced until the completion of this cassette.  
The objective function of the research problem is to maximize the total utilization 
time of the downstream process, defined by +−
=
−−⋅−= ∑ ])[(11 11 TttTN i
N
i
iρ , where 
)0,max(xx =+ , ti represents the time point of completion for i-th target cassette and T 
represents the fixed cycle time of the downstream cell process. 
 
3.2 Method 
Consider a problem in which N pairs of TFT and CF cassettes are to be processed, 
with their cassette-mapping matrix being available. Then the number of sequence of 
producing target cassettes is N!. Each sequence corresponds to a case of reordering the 
rows of the original cassette-mapping matrix. That is, each sequence is associated with a 
distinct cassette-mapping matrix. For a sequence of interest, let V = ][ , jiv  represent the 
corresponding cassette-mapping matrix, where 1, =jiv  if j-th TFT cassette is a 
composition member of i-th CF cassette; 0, =jiv , otherwise. Let Si = {j| 1, =jiv } 
represent the composition members of i-th CF cassette.  
 10
Step 5: Unload cassettes in R, and load cassettes in C2. 
While 1)( 2 ≥CN , do   
IF N(RA) + N(RB) < p,  
Load a cassette h, RA = RA +{h}, loading = loading + 1 
Elseif 1)( ≥BRN ,  
Unload a cassette h in RB, RB = RB - {h}, unloading = unloading + 1 
Load a cassette k in C2, C2 = D2–{k}，RA = RA + {k}, loading = loading +1 
Elseif 1)( ≥ARN ,  
Unload a cassette h in RA, RA = RA–{h}, unloading = unloading + 1 
Load a cassette k in C2, C2 = C2–{k}, RA = RA + {K}, loading = loading +1 
Endif 
End_while 
Step 6：Output unloadloadtt ii ⋅+⋅+= − 211 λλ , where 1λ  is the operation time 
per loading and 2λ is the operation time per unloading 
  
3.3 Genetic Algorithm 
As stated, there are N! sequences to produce the target cassettes. So the solution 
space can be very huge for a high value of N. This research proposes a genetic 
algorithm to find a near-optimal sequence out of the solution space. 
In the genetic algorithm, a solution (also called a chromosome) is represented by 
NixX i ≤≤= 1  ],[ , where ix denotes the indices of the CF cassette for the 
cassette-mapping matrix of concern. Define P as a population involving pN  
chromosomes, initially generated by random selection.  
The fitness function, aiming to model the relative utilization of the downstream 
cell process, is defined by +−
=
−−⋅−= ∑ ])[(11 11 TttTN i
N
i
iρ , where ti represents the time 
point of completion for i-th target cassette and T represents the fixed cycle time of the 
downstream cell process.  
Three genetic operators—reproduction, crossover, and mutation are defined to 
generate new population of chromosomes. The reproduction operator is designed by the 
tournament selection method (Goldberg et al. 1989). This method first randomly group 
 12
=bG 100000, 500=bC . The loading/unloading time per cassette is given as 0.05T. 
Each example is run 15 replicates. The solution obtained by the GA is compared with a 
benchmarking solution that is obtained from the business-as-usual practice; that is, 
randomly sampling 15 chromosomes and taking their average.  
Table 1 shows the results of the 45 scenarios, which indicate that the proposed 
method significantly outperforms the benchmarking method. Using this algorithm, the 
utilization of the downstream cell process can increase up to 7%. Such an increase may 
lead to 7% increase in total revenue. The GA algorithm is quite efficient, its 
computation time required for each scenario is less than 1 minute. 
 
5. Concluding Remarks 
This research proposes a method to determine the sequence of loading and 
unloading TFT cassettes on a sorter in order to maximize the utilization of the 
downstream cell process of the sorter. TFT-LCD is a capital-intensive industry. An 
up-to-date TFT-LCD factory may cost about two billion dollars. Keeping the 
manufacturing process in high utilization is therefore very important. The proposed 
method, compared to a benchmarking method used in industry, could increase the 
process utilization up to 7%. 
The proposed method adopts the genetic algorithm technique. A sequence 
alternative for producing the target cassettes is modeled as a chromosome. The fitness 
function, representing the utilization of the downstream cell process, is evaluated by a 
heuristic method. In producing each target cassette, the heuristic method is used to 
determine the loading and unloading sequence of the associated composition members 
and the cassettes presently stayed on the porter. 
Future extension of this research involves the study of constructing a 
line-balanced production system that integrates the upstream and downstream processes 
of sorters. We are conducting research problems such as determining the capacity of 
stockers and vehicles that interface sorters with the upstream and the downstream 
processes. Other methods for enhancing the GA technique and the associated heuristic 
method are also being investigated. 
 
Reference 
1. Chang, D. H., A study on the mapping operation of TFT-LCD cell process, M.S. 
Thesis, National Chiao-Tung University, Taiwan, 2005. 
2. Goldberg, D. E., Korb, B., and Deb, K., Messy genetic algorithms: motivation, 
analysis, and first results, Complex Systems, 1989, 3(4), 493-530. 
 14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Mapping yield of a TFT-plate and a CF-plate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 
Fig. 2 Sorter configuration 
CF-plate (50%) 
TFT-plate (50%) 
TFT-LCD plate (25%) 
Input ports 
Output port 
Robot 
 16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 (a) generating a cutting point on a chromosome, (b) interchanging the cut portions of a 
chromosome, (3) a modification procedure for removing the redundancy of genes in a chromosome 
2 9 7 3 1 4 10 5 6 8
1 7 5 3 2 10 8 6 4 9
1 7 5 3 2 10 8 5 6 8
2 9 7 3 1 4 10 6 4 9
1 7 5 3 2 10 8 4 6 9
2 9 7 3 1 4 10 6 5 8
Parent 1 
Parent 2 
(a)  
Cutting point 
Offspring 1 
Offspring 2 
(b)  
Offspring 1 
Offspring 2 
(c)  
 18
APIEMS國際學術會議報告 
巫木誠 (2006-12-22) 
 
(1) 會議名稱：7th APIEMS Conference (APIEMS: Asia Pacific Industrial Engineering 
& Management Systems) 
(2) 地點：Bangkok，泰國 
(3) 時間：2006/12/17-2006/12/20 
 
我國是 APIEMS的創始會員國，本次會議是第七屆。本次會議共約有 300篇學術
論文發表，參加的國家主要包括日本、韓國、台灣、泰國、菲律賓、印尼、馬來
西亞、香港等亞洲國家。本人參與此會議的主要心得如下： 
 
(1) 東南亞國家學術進步快速：此次會議，泰國、印尼有些學術論文的品質都相當
好，進一步改寫之後，應該都可發表於國際期刊。我想原因有二：第一：網際
網路普及，因此知識的傳播快速，知識的取得成本降低。第二：東南亞國家經
濟發展之後，學術的資源也增加，各國開始重視 SCI/SSCI國際期刊的發表。
在上述兩論點的前提之下，台灣與歐美日本等先進國家的差距，如果我們好好
努力，應該有機會縮小差距，甚至迎頭趕上；相反的，如果我們懈怠，恐怕有
一天都會被東南亞國家趕上。 
 
(2) 工業工程學術研究的努力方向：在此次會議中，我看到一些生管和製程規劃的
論文，以木材家具業、魚類加工業為應用案例，研究成果都相當好，頗值得肯
定。我覺得工業工程的應用案例，應該盡量就地取材，這樣對問題的瞭解才會
深入，藉由實際問題的瞭解，再將問題抽象化，變成一般性的問題，以擴充應
用的範圍。解決問題的工具應該盡量先進化(leading-edge)，亦即要盡量吸收最
新的技術，以增加我們的解題工具和能力。最後，研究成果要能國際化，亦即
要能被國際期刊所接受，才能驗證研究成果的品質。綜上所述：我認為，台灣
工業工程學界的研究要朝四個方向邁進：案例要「在地化」、問題要「一般化」、
工具要「先進化」、成果要「國際化」。 
 
(3) APIEMS會議的成長方向：APIEMS這個會議，目前亞洲學術研究作的最好的
幾個大學（譬如香港大學、香港中文大學、香港科大、新加坡大學、新加坡管
理學院），目前參與太少。明年 APIEMS 是台灣主辦，我覺得我們應該盡量邀
請香港、新加坡、中國大陸學者參加，同時對於 keynote Speech應該重視，盡
量邀到國際級的學界人士，作比較前瞻性的演講；甚至可增加一些先進技術的
短期課程(tutorial)。 
 
