 2
中英文摘要 
本研究提出一種創新的壓印複製製程技術，首先進行以磁性輔助滾輪微轉印複製製程之設備開發，利
用 PDMS 軟模複合磁性粉末作為滾輪傳達壓印之方法，藉由磁性滾輪均勻施壓等技術特點，研究使用
生醫微型柱體陣列在該創新製程上進行轉印複製研究。研究結果顯示，本研究所組立的磁性輔助滾輪
微轉印機台可以成功的轉寫滾輪上的結構到 PC 膜上，達到壓印的成果，同時並利用此創新製程技術成
功滾壓製作出生醫微型柱體陣列，並探討其複製成形性。 
關鍵字：磁性輔助滾輪壓印,生醫元件,微成形技術,陣列元件,微機電 
Abstract.  
Most of the fabrication methods of microstructured rollers are very complicated and costly and many kinds of 
microstructure fabrication methods on roller surfaces have been reported, such as thin mold wrapping, a 
modified LIGA process and soft mold casting.The study focuses on using magnetic soft mold rolling 
technology to replicate microstructure on a substrate to make the rolling application and technology more 
mature.This paper proposes an innovative technology for fabricating roller of magnetic soft mold using 
PDMS with added magnetic powder. This study applied compound casting technique to fabricate roller of 
magnetic soft mold, electromagnetic chuck for even imprinting pressure and hot embossing technology to 
replicate microstructure. The composite material of PDMS, with added magnetic iron powder, can effectively 
improve mechanical strength properties of pure PDMS mold, which is easily transformed for imprinting.  
Keywords：Magnetic roller, LIGA process, PDMS, compound casting, soft mold 
1. Introduction 
Plastic polymer material imprint molding technology includes plane and roller modes. Compared with plane 
imprint technology, roller imprint technology has advantage of continuous mass production and shortened 
imprint cycle. [1-3]. This study utilized innovative applications of a magnetic aided roller transfer printing 
process technology, and assembled a magnetic aided roller microstructure imprint system, where magnetic 
pressure between magnetic rollers allows the substrate surface to achieve full conformal contact. Rolling 
replica molding was achieved by regulating gas pressure. This manufacturing process could improve the 
disadvantage of uneven roller pressure distribution of rigid rollers and pneumatic imprinting, deliver greater 
efficiency, and provide larger area contact for continuous mass production of microstructure components in 
order to successfully implement mass imprinting of microstructures over plastic film. 
2. Experimental  
Magnetic aided roller transfer printing system construction, replica material preparation, and imprint 
force source.  
This study used a self designed magnetic thermal roller with controllable imprint equipment, as shown in 
Figure 1(a). The thermal control system had heating and cooling functions, and the magnetic control system 
could precisely regulate the magnetic imprint force. Roller power was from a 24-volt DC drive motor (Output 
= 30W; Amps = 1.8A; RPM = 1800; Torque = 1.62 kg.cm; GIN RE electronic motor Co., LTD), with a drive 
bevel gear, able to rotate and further drive the roller, coupled with PCB for the purpose of precise revolution 
regulation. A through hole was designed inside the drive roller, which is used to place a hot tube that provides 
the temperature required for the rolling process. A microstructure roller on moving side applied pressure, and 
was pushed by gas cylinder. Coupled with the magnetic force of a magnetic soft mold, the maximal thrust of 
microstructure roller could reach 780kg, and drive roller revolution ranges in 1RPM~12RPM. The magnetic 
powder selected was demagnetized magnetic iron oxide power with a density of about 1.7 g/cm3, appeared in 
 4
Magnetic roller manufacturing characteristics.  
This study extended the roller 4 times axially and conducted casting. The results showed that, the hardness of 
middle part was very even, thus, the middle part would be an optional segment of a magnetic roller. In 
addition, an optimum magnetic powder concentration/ratio was selected to reduce voiding. Experiment results 
showed that when the magnetic powder concentration was 30wt%, the minimal void could be obtained; and 
the magnetic force became more even and integral after being magnetized 
Manufacturing method of microstructure magnetic roller.  
This study used a gas hot press process to imprint PC plastic film with microstructures, and adhered a 
structure side to an internal wall of a glass cylinder as primary case mold. A microstructure magnetic roller 
was manufactured in two-stage steps, as shown in Figure 3. The first stage is to create a PDMS microstructure 
of an outer magnetic roller, the steps are: (a) pour an appropriate amount of PDMS solution, prepared at a 
certain ratio, into a glass cylinder with a microstructure on an internal wall; (b) hold this glass cylinder 
horizontally and fix to a rotating motor; (c) insert doctor blade into glass cylinder, rotate the glass cylinder, 
and squeeze for full coverage of the microstructure over cylinder internal wall to the appropriate thickness of 
PDMS film; (d) rotate evenly and slowly in order that the PDMS film thickness becomes uniform, excessive 
PDMS solution can be removed with a doctor blade gouge; (e) allow even PDMS film to be applied inside the 
cylinder and fully cure, as shown in Figure 4. The second stage of magnetic roller internal fabrication is: (a) 
place a hollow stainless steel tube, which is not magnetic conductive (used to drive Drive End taper face of 
magnetic roller imprint machine, as shown in Figure 5) in the finished specimen from the first stage; (b) 
machine the two tapered cylinder molds, making central coaxial collimations on top and bottom ends, 
respectively; (c) cast PDMS composite magnetic powder; (d) after curing, remove the outer pipe, place the 
solid cylinder to complete magnetic roller fabrication, as shown in Figure 6. 
 
Fig.3. Manufacturing steps of magnetic roller with microstructure 
 
 6
196℃, drive roller motor revolution 4.5RPM, and gas cylinder thrust 520kg; rolling in the above conditions 
can achieve very uniform and integral microcylinder array replica, therefore, this is the basis for the 
microtransfer process parameters subsequently used in this experiment. 
3. Results and Discussions 
Influence of different characteristic size magnetic rollers on cast molding.  
Table 2 shows the influence of different characteristic sizes on cast molding. According to the experimental 
results, in cases of casting PDMS composite with 30wt% magnetic powder, it is found that Groups 1~4 had 
good and integral filling, as shown in Figure 7(a), (b), while Group 5 failed casting, due to too small casting 
space and greater viscosity, as shown in Figure 7(c). Figure 7(d) is the cast magnetic roller. To eliminate 
casting failure, casting flow space can be enlarged or solvent viscosity can be lowered. 
Influence of roller material properties on imprint force evenness.  
To validate the proposed excellence of magnetic roller imprint evenness, this study conducted three roller 
material rolling tests, under gas cylinder imprint forces of 24.11 kgf/cm2 and 32.15 kgf/cm2, and adopted 
pressure-sensitive film (Fuji Prescale Film) made by the Fuji Corp. (Japan) to observe imprint force 
distribution, as shown in Figure 8. Experimental results showed that, in cases of magnetic roller soft mold 
rolling, imprint force evenness was significantly superior to that of other roller materials; and even pressure 
distribution could be well obtained, as shown in Figure 8(c).  
 
 8
nickel mold was a diameter of 8.0µm and a height of 2.5µm. As to a microcylinder rolled using this 
innovative magnetic aided roller microtransfer replica process, its structure was precisely measured at a radial 
length of 7.58µm; distortion of 0.42; strain of 0.0525, and a peripheral length of 8.42µm; distortion of 0.42; 
and strain of 0.0525. According to the SEM measurement in this study, a microstructure replicated after 
magnetic roller imprint had very good profile replicability. 
   
(a) Cylinder diameter 
   
(b) PDMS composite magnetic iron powder thickness 
Fig.9. Gauss meter measurement of cylinder roller surface magnetic force 
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期： 99 年 07月 31 日 
一、 參加會議經過(附件) 
    7/27 早上於桃園國際機場搭 7:45 國內長榮飛機，歷時 4 小時左右的飛行到達新加
坡的時間是 12:00，隨後趕到位於新加坡河旁下榻的飯店 GRAND COPTHORNE 
WATERFRONT HOTEL 此處 2F (Waterfront and Riverfront Ballriims, Level 2)亦是研討
會舉辦的地點，經整理辦理一些相關報到的資料後到 2F 辦理 speaker 報到(Registration)
相關手續，同時進行研討會海報張貼，隨後回 room 整理明天參加研討會的資料，完
成第一天的行程。(圖一) 
計畫編號 NSC 98－ 2221 － E － 424 －002 － 
計畫名稱 微透鏡製作技術與創新型磁性滾輪轉印製程之開發與研究 
出國人員
姓名 翁永進 
服務機構
及職稱 開南大學專任助理教授 
會議時間 
99 年 7 月 28 日 
至 
99 年 7 月 30 日 
會議地點 新加坡 
會議名稱 
International Conference on Precision Engineering 
ICoPE2010 & 13th ICPE 
發表論文
題目 
1. Fabrication of magnetic microstructured roller using compound casting 
techniques 
2. Deformation mode construction using photoresist microstructure devices 
produced with nanoimprint technology  
3. Effects of Electrolyte Formulas on Electrochemical Polish Planarization 
of Pure Copper 
4. A Study on Application of Making Porous Micro-Structural Aluminum 
Oxide Template by Anodic Aluminum Oxide Processing Technology in 
Cell Reproduction 
 3
Vibration Cutting by Prof T. Moriwaki, Setsunan University; Surface Generation and 
Testing of Ultra-Precision Structured Surfaces by Professor W. B. Lee, The Hong Kong 
Polytechnic University 
  
(b) Waterffront Ballroom 
 
  
(b) Keynote 
 5
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
圖三 
二、與會心得 
    從第一天(7/27)的註冊到會議最後一天(7/30)之間的過程中，除了研究方面獲得不
少新的啟示和思維，相關於本研究的方向上，發現精密工程、精密製程、光學元件、
可撓性面板、微機電技術、等創新研究與產業化程度亦是相當驚人，例如新加坡的
ICoPE2010 & 13th ICPE 
 
 1 
International Conference on Precision Engineering 
(ICoPE2010 & 13th ICPE) 
28 – 30 July 2010 
Waterfront & Riverfront Ballrooms, Level 2 
Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel, Singapore 
  
Conference Programme 
(All Plenary Keynote presentations will be held at Waterfront Ballroom) 
 
 
27 July 2010 
 
4.00pm – 6.00pm Registration - Level 2, Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel, Singapore 
 
 
 
Day 1 : 28 July 2010 
 
9.00am – 9.20am Opening Address by Dr Lim Ser Yong, Executive Director, Singapore Institute of Manufacturing Technology 
Welcome Address by Professor T. Obikawa, Vice-president, JSPE 
 Plenary Presentation I,  Chair: Dr. L. C. Lee, Singapore Institute of Manufacturing Technology 
9.20am – 10.00am Keynote 1 : Precision Mould Making – from Macro to Micro by Professor E. Brinksmeier, University of Bremen 
10.00am -10.40am Keynote 2: Uncertainty Estimation in Intelligent Coordinate and Profile Measurement by Professor Takamasu Kiyoshi, The University of Tokyo 
10.40am- 11.00am Coffee Break 
 Venue: Waterfront I Venue: Waterfront II Venue: Waterfront III Venue: Riverfront I 
 Precision Machining (I) 
Chair: Dr. Sathyan Subbiah, Nanyang 
Technological University, Singapore 
Non-traditional Machining (I) 
Chair: Professor Kai Egashira, Kyoto Institute 
of Technology Non-traditional, Japan   
Mechatronics (I) 
Chair: Dr. Lin Wei, SIMTech, Singapore 
Measurement and Test (I) 
Chair: Dr. Xu Jian, SIMTech, Singapore 
 
11.00am – 11.30am 
Advanced Lapping and Polishing Methods for 
Planarizing a Single-crystal 4H-SiC utilizing Fe 
Abrasive Particles – Akihisa Kubota, Kumamoto 
University 
Investigation on Influences by Adapting 
Additives to Electrolytic In-Process Dressing 
(ELID) Grinding – Ioan Marinescu, University 
of Toledo 
An Easy-to-Manufacture 2 Degree-of-Freedom 
Remote Center of Compliance for Micro-Transfer 
Printing – Placid M. Ferreira, University of Illinois 
Surface Characterization with an Ionization Probe – 
Steven Danyluk, Georgia Institute of Technology 
 
11.30am – 11.50am 
Effects of Electrolyte Formulas on 
Electrochemical Polish Planarization of Pure 
Copper – Weng Yung-Chun, National Taiwan 
University 
On-machine Heat Treatment System Using 
YAG Laser (Laser Hardening of Micro-cutting 
Edge) – Keiji Ogawa, The University of Shiga 
Perfecture 
Development of a Linear-motor-driven Table 
Supported by Hydrostatic Water Bearings : Effect 
of Air Volume Contained in Water-supply Tube on 
Pitching Motion of Table Slide – Akinori Yui, 
National Defense Academy 
Development of an On-machine Machining Error 
Measurement and Compensation System for Micro 
Milling Process – Wang Shih-Ming, Chung Yuan 
Christian University 
 
11.50am – 12.10pm 
Measurement of Spindle Thermal Growth on a 
Machine Intended for Micro/Meso Scale Milling – 
Juri Saedon, University of Birmingham 
Parametric Study of Micro Machining Three 
Dimensional Microstructure with the Tiny-
Grinding Wheel Based on the EMR Effect – 
Gao Weiqiang, Guangdong University of 
Technology 
Development of Piezo Driven Inchworm Micro X-Y 
Stage and Hemispherical Tilting Positioner with 
Microscope Head – Hisayuki Aoyama, University 
of Electro-Communications 
An Optical Fiber Probe for 3-D Micro Metrology – 
Hiroshi Murakami, Kyushu Sangyo University 
 
12.10pm – 12.30pm 
The Effects of Cutting Tool Geometry and 
Processing Parameters on the Surface 
Roughness of AISI 316 Stainless Steel –Ilman 
Hakimi Abdullah, University Kebangsaan 
Malaysia 
Fabrication of Ultraprecision Millimeter-thick 
Elliptical Neutron Focusing Mirror Substrate by 
Local Wet Etching – Kazuya Yamamura, 
Osaka University 
 
Precision Motion Control with Eddy Current 
Damper – Teo Chek Sing, Singapore Institute of 
Manufacturing Technology 
 
Automatic surface characterization for micro-
structured surfaces fabricated by fast tool servo 
diamond turning – Yu Deping, National University of 
Singapore 
ICoPE2010 & 13th ICPE 
 
 3 
 
 
Day 2 : 29 July 2010 
 
 
 
 Plenary Presentation II, Chair: Professor Steven Danyluk, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA 
9.00am – 9.40am Keynote 3 : Multi-Axis Control Ultraprecision Micromilling by Professor Yoshimi Takeuchi, Osaka University 
9.40am – 10.20am Keynote 4: Compound Micro/nano Machining – A Tool-based Innovative and Integrated Approach by Professor M. Rahman,  National University of Singapore 
10.20am – 10.40am Coffee Break 
 
 Venue: Waterfront I Venue: Waterfront II Venue: Waterfront III Venue: Riverfront I 
 Precision Machining (IV) 
Chair: Professor C F Cheung, Hong Kong 
Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, China 
Non-traditional Machining (IV) 
Chair: Dr. Stephen Wan Yee Ming, SIMTech, 
Singapore 
Advanced Materials & Functional 
Surfaces (I) 
Chair: Professor Noritsugu Umehara, Nagoya 
University , Japan 
Advanced Moulding & Forming (I) 
Chair: Dr. Zhou Tianfeng, Tohoku University , Japan 
 
10.40am – 11.10am 
Removal and Fracture Characteristics of 
Cemented Tungsten Carbide under 
Nanoindentating and Nanoscratching – Rudy 
Irwan, The University of Queensland 
Nickel Injection Mould Fabrication via Proton 
Beam Writing and UV Lithography,- Jeroen 
van Kan, National University of Singapore 
Surface Micro-structuring using Polymer 
Elongation – Arata Kaneko, Tokyo Metropolitan 
University 
Manufacturing of High-grade Micro Components by 
Powder Injection Molding – Volker Piotter, Karlsruhe 
Institute of Technology  
 
11.10am -11.30am 
Methods for Prevention of Ignition during 
Machining of Magnesium Alloys – Hou Junzhan, 
Nanyang Technological University  
Study of Dynamic Magnetic Field Assisted 
Finishing for Metal Mold using Magnetic 
Compound Fluid (MCF) – Takashi Sato, 
Singapore Institute of Manufacturing 
Technology 
Chemical Surface Treatment for Enhanced 
Bonding Strength between Polymer Coating and 
Aluminum Alloy – Linda Wu, Singapore Institute of 
Manufacturing Technology 
Comparing Microgroove Array Forming with 
Micropyramid Array Forming in the Glass Molding 
Press – Zhou Tianfeng, Tohoku University  
 
 
11.30am -11.50pm 
The Effect of One Directional Ultrasonic 
Vibration Assistance in High Speed Meso-Scale 
Milling Process – Ko Jeong Hoon, Singapore 
Institute of Manufacturing Technology 
Focused Ion Beam Nano-Precision Machining 
for Analyzing Photonic Structures in Butterfly – 
Wang Houxiao, Nanyang Technological 
University 
Drilling of Aluminium/CFRP/Titanium Stacks  - 
Islam Shyha, University of Birmingham 
Design and Fabrication of Composite Solar 
Concentrator – Zhang Xiaodong, Tianjin University 
 
11.50am -12.10pm 
Forming of Microstructure on Hard Brittle 
Materials in Ductile Mode Cutting – Kunitaka 
Kuriyama, Toshiba Machine Machinery Co Ltd 
Study on Influence of Stray Inductance in 
Micro EDM using Electrostatic Induction 
Feeding Method – Yang Xiaodong, Harbin 
Institute of Technology 
Combinatorial searching for Ni-Nb-Zr amorphous 
alloys as glass lens molding die materials – 
Junpei Sakurai, Tokyo Institute of Technology 
Feasibility Study on Producing Components with 
Embedded Channel by Powder Injection Moulding – 
Zhang Su Xia, Singapore Institute of Manufacturing 
Technology 
 
12.10 pm –12.30pm 
Ultra Precision Machining of Non-Ferrous Metals 
and Nitrocarburized Tool Steel – Jens Osmer, 
University Bremen 
Performance of Bunched-electrode in EDM – 
Cu Lin, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
Molecular Interaction between PA6 and LCP in 
the Presence of Functionalized Carbon 
Nanotubes – Henry Cheng Kuo Feng, Nanyang 
Technological University 
Study on Precise Stamping under Eccentric Load 
with Using a Multi-point Die Support Structure – 
Takahiro Ohashi, Kokushikan University 
12.30pm – 1.30pm Lunch & Poster Session 
 
 
Precision Machining (V) 
Chair: Professor Osamu Ohnishi, Kyushu 
University, Japan 
Non-traditional Machining (V) 
Chair: Professor Kazuya Yamamura, Osaka 
University 
Advanced Materials & Functional 
Surfaces (II)   Chair: Professor Nobuyuki 
Moronuki, Tokyo Metropolitan University, Japan 
Advanced Moulding & Forming (II) 
Chair: Dr. Danno Atsushi, SIMTech, Singapore 
 
1.30pm – 1.50pm 
Ultraprecision ELID-Grinding of Aspheric WC 
Lens Mold for Plastic Injection Molding – Hitoshi 
Ohmori, RIKEN 
Machined Surface Characteristics and 
Removal Mechanism of Soft and Brittle Solids 
– Rudy Irwan, The University of Queensland 
Flexible Transparent Conducting Films by Hot 
Embossing – Kerk Wai Tat, Singapore Institute of 
Manufacturing Technology  
FEM-Based Modeling of Dynamic Recrystallization of 
AISI 52100 Steel Using Cellular Automaton Method  
– MW Fu, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University 
 
1.50pm – 2.10pm 
Beam Shaping Lens for Chip Scale Packaged 
LEDs – Joo JaeYoung, Gwangju Institute of 
Science & Technology 
High Spindle Speed Wire Electrical Discharge 
Grinding Using Electrostatic Induction Feeding 
Method – Yuna Yahagi, Tokyo University of 
Agriculture and Technology 
Optimisation of Processing Parameters of 
Titanium Foams using Taguchi Method for  
Compressive Strength – Sufizar Ahmad, Universiti 
Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia 
Strength Evaluation of Joints Formed by Two-
Material Powder Injection Molding – Li Tao, 
Singapore Institute of Manufacturing Technology 
ICoPE2010 & 13th ICPE 
 
 5 
 
Day 3 : 30 July 2010 
 
 
 Plenary Presentation III,  Chair: Professor T. Obikawa, University of Tokyo, Japan 
9.00am – 9.40am Keynote 5 : Development of 2DOF Ultrasonic Vibration Cutting Device for Ultraprecision Elliptical Vibration Cutting by Prof T.  Moriwaki, Setsunan University 
9.40am – 10.20am Keynote 6: Surface Generation and Testing of Ultra-Precision Structured Surfaces by Professor W. B. Lee,  The Hong Kong Polytechnic University 
10.20am – 10.40am Coffee Break 
 
 Venue: Waterfront I Venue: Waterfront II Venue: Waterfront III Venue: Riverfront I 
 MEMS & NEMS 
Chair: Professor LAM Yee Cheong, Nanyang 
Technological University, Singapore 
Manufacturing Systems (II) 
Chair: Dr. Lee Eng Wah, SIMTech, Singapore 
Advanced Materials & Functional 
Surfaces (IV) 
Chair: Dr. Qi Guojun, SIMTech, Singapore 
 Advanced Moulding & Forming (III)  
Chair: Dr. Volker Piotter, Karlsruhe Institute of 
Technology, Germany 
 
10.40am – 11.10am 
Electrostatic Control and the Need of Feedback 
Control Ionization in Critical Environment of 
MEMS Manufacturing Process – Anusom 
Chakkaew, King Mongkut’s Institute of 
Technology Ladkrabang (KMITL) 
Automatic Manufacturing Feature Extraction of 
CAD models for Machining – Yusuke Narabu, 
Tokyo Institute of Technology 
 
Electrical Conductivity and Micro Hardness of 
Synthetic and Natural Graphite Epoxy Composite 
- Hendra Suherman, University Kebangsaan 
Malaysia 
Spin Formability of Al-6061 Aluminum Alloy Pre-
forms Obtained via Liquid Forging – Su Chun Wei, , 
Singapore Institute of Manufacturing Technology 
 
 
11.10am -11.30am 
Joint Formation Mechanism and Strength in 
Resistance Microwelding of Brass Sheet to Fine 
Insulated Cu Wire – Mo Bing Hua, Guangdong 
University of Technology 
The Tool Path Generation by Using 
Configuration Space for Five-Axis Controlled 
Machining - Application to Rough Cutting by 
Using Square End Mill – Takuya Masuda, 
University of Electro-Communications 
Thermal Stablility and Oxidation Resistance of 
CrAlSiN Nano-structured Coatings Deposited by 
Lateral Rotating Cathode Arc – Cheong Jhun 
Yew, Singapore Institute of Manufacturing 
Technology 
Improving the Sensitivity of T-Shape Test to Friction 
Conditions for the Evaluation of Friction Behaviour in 
Microforming – Sylvie Castagne, Nanyang 
Technological University 
 
11.30am-11.50pm 
Sub-micro Poly-dimethyle Siloxane (PDMS) 
Replication using Proton Beam Fabricated 
Nickle Templates – Shao Peige, National 
University of Singapore 
Tool Path Planning Assist System for Freeform 
Surface Machining – Zhu Jiang, Tokyo Institute 
of Technology 
 
Fabrication of Dense Composite Ceramic 
Electrolyte SDC-(Li/Na)2CO3 – Jarot Raharjo, 
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia 
 
Process and Material Property Effects in the 
Progressive Forming of Micro-pins – Samuel Lim 
Chao Voon, Singapore Institute of Manufacturing 
Technology 
 
11.50pm-12.10pm 
Green & Sustainable Manufacturing 
Chair: Dr. Song Bin, SIMTech, Singapore 
Economic Viability of Nickel Recovery from 
Waste Catalyst – Yang Qizhen, Singapore 
Institute of Manufacturing Technology 
Optimal Vacation Policy for a Manufacturing 
Facility using Retrial System – Yeo Wee Meng, 
Singapore Institute of Manufacturing 
Technology 
Characterization of Silicon Wafer Surface 
Irradiated with Fiber Laser – Hamid Farrokhi, 
Nanyang Technological University 
Micro Incremental Forming Characteristics of 
Stainless Foil – Tsutomu Sekine, Tokyo Institute of 
Technology 
 
12.10pm – 12.30pm 
Study Effect of Stress in the Electrical Contact 
Resistance of Bipolar Plate and Membrane 
Electrode Assembly in the Proton Exchange 
Membrane Fuel Cell : a Review – Miftah 
Kurniawan, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia 
Machine Condition Monitoring, 
Control & Diagnosis 
Chair: Dr. B. S. LIM, SIMTech, Singapore 
Automatic Egg-cell Gathering by Versatile 
Miniature Robot on an Inverted Microscopy – 
Ohmi Fuchiwaki, Yokohama National 
University 
Room Temperature Processed Hard Easy Clean 
Coating Using Ammonia Treatment - Zhang Xiao, 
Singapore Institute of Manufacturing Technology 
Development of Bi-layer Porosity Graded Ceramic 
Component - Amanda Ong Ziyan, Singapore Institute 
of Manufacturing Technology 
 
12.30pm – 12.50pm 
Nickel-Hydroxyapatite as Biomaterial Catalysts 
for Hydrogen Production via Glycerol Steam 
Reforming – Hakim Lukman, Universiti 
Kebangsaan Malaysia 
Development of CAD System Based on 
Function Features – Sonken Ando, Keio 
University 
 
 
12.30pm – 1.30pm Lunch 
 
 
1.30pm – 6.45pm 
 
Company Visit 
 
Fabrication of magnetic microstructured roller using compound casting 
techniques  
Y. J. Weng1,a, and H. K. Liu2,b 
1Center for General Education, Kainan University, Taoyuan, 338, Taiwan 
2Automobile Department, Nan-Chiang Vocational High School, Sindiani, 231, Taiwan 
ayjweng@mail.knu.edu.tw, biou6866@yahoo.com.tw 
Keywords: magnetic roller, LIGA process, PDMS, compound casting, soft mold  
 
Abstract. Most of the fabrication methods of microstructured rollers are very complicated and 
costly and Many kinds of microstructure fabrication methods on roller surfaces have been reported, 
such as thin mold wrapping, a modified LIGA process and soft mold casting.The study focuses on 
using magnetic soft mold rolling technology to replicate microstructure on a substrate to make the 
rolling application and technology more mature.This paper proposes an innovative technology for 
fabricating roller of magnetic soft mold using PDMS with added magnetic powder. This study 
applied compound casting technique to fabricate roller of magnetic soft mold, electromagnetic 
chuck for even imprinting pressure and hot embossing technology to replicate microstructure. The 
composite material of PDMS, with added magnetic iron powder, can effectively improve 
mechanical strength properties of pure PDMS mold, which is easily transformed for imprinting.  
Introduction 
Plastic polymer material imprint molding technology includes plane and roller modes. Compared 
with plane imprint technology, roller imprint technology has advantage of continuous mass 
production and shortened imprint cycle. [1-3]. This study utilized innovative applications of a 
magnetic aided roller transfer printing process technology, and assembled a magnetic aided roller 
microstructure imprint system, where magnetic pressure between magnetic rollers allows the 
substrate surface to achieve full conformal contact. Rolling replica molding was achieved by 
regulating gas pressure. This manufacturing process could improve the disadvantage of uneven 
roller pressure distribution of rigid rollers and pneumatic imprinting, deliver greater efficiency, and 
provide larger area contact for continuous mass production of microstructure components in order 
to successfully implement mass imprinting of microstructures over plastic film. 
Experimental  
Magnetic aided roller transfer printing system construction, replica material preparation, and 
imprint force source. This study used a self designed magnetic thermal roller with controllable 
imprint equipment, as shown in Figure 1(a). The thermal control system had heating and cooling 
functions, and the magnetic control system could precisely regulate the magnetic imprint force. 
Roller power was from a 24-volt DC drive motor (Output = 30W; Amps = 1.8A; RPM = 1800; 
Torque = 1.62 kg.cm; GIN RE electronic motor Co., LTD), with a drive bevel gear, able to rotate 
outer magnetic roller, the steps are: (a) pour an appropriate amount of PDMS solution, prepared at a 
certain ratio, into a glass cylinder with a microstructure on an internal wall; (b) hold this glass 
cylinder horizontally and fix to a rotating motor; (c) insert doctor blade into glass cylinder, rotate 
the glass cylinder, and squeeze for full coverage of the microstructure over cylinder internal wall to 
the appropriate thickness of PDMS film; (d) rotate evenly and slowly in order that the PDMS film 
thickness becomes uniform, excessive PDMS solution can be removed with a doctor blade gouge; 
(e) allow even PDMS film to be applied inside the cylinder and fully cure, as shown in Figure 4. 
The second stage of magnetic roller internal fabrication is: (a) place a hollow stainless steel tube, 
which is not magnetic conductive (used to drive Drive End taper face of magnetic roller imprint 
machine, as shown in Figure 5) in the finished specimen from the first stage; (b) machine the two 
tapered cylinder molds, making central coaxial collimations on top and bottom ends, respectively; 
(c) cast PDMS composite magnetic powder; (d) after curing, remove the outer pipe, place the solid 
cylinder to complete magnetic roller fabrication, as shown in Figure 6. 
 
 
 
Magnetic roller microtransfer process. The optimal magnetic roller microtransfer process 
parameters for this study are: transfer heating temperature 196℃, drive roller motor revolution 
4.5RPM, and gas cylinder thrust 520kg; rolling in the above conditions can achieve very uniform 
and integral microcylinder array replica, therefore, this is the basis for the microtransfer process 
parameters subsequently used in this experiment. 
Results and Discussions 
Influence of different characteristic size magnetic rollers on cast molding. Table 2 shows the 
influence of different characteristic sizes on cast molding. According to the experimental results, in 
cases of casting PDMS composite with 30wt% magnetic powder, it is found that Groups 1~4 had 
good and integral filling, as shown in Figure 7(a), (b), while Group 5 failed casting, due to too small 
Fig.3. Manufacturing 
steps of magnetic roller 
with microstructure 
Fig.4. Manufacturing method of 
magnetic drive roller
Fig.5. Magnetic roller imprinter
Fig. 6. Manufacturing method of magnetic drive roller 
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
(a) (b) (c) (d) 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
of 8.42μm; distortion of 0.42; and strain of 0.0525. According to the SEM measurement in this 
study, a microstructure replicated after magnetic roller imprint had very good profile replicability. 
     
 
   
 
 
 
 
Conclusions 
This study presented the design and development of magnetic aided magnetic soft mold hot press 
technology. According to the experiment observations and discussions, the microstructure roller 
imprint machine assembled in this study could successfully transfer a roller structure to PC film, 
resulted in imprint effects. This study successfully used this innovative technology to produce a 
microstructure, and further discussed its replicability. It was proved that an imprint area could be 
enlarged by evenly pressing with gas pressure in an innovative rolling process coupled with 
magnetic rollers, where pressure contact became more even, and roll to roll process enabled 
continuous and mass imprinting. In sum, magnetic aided roller transfer printing technology is 
proven to continuously replicate microstructures on substrate. It is a manufacturing process with 
high replication precision and simple procedures, and the most important advantage is its immunity 
to light diffraction limits, thus, miniaturized component structures can be produced. It has the 
potential of low cost and excellent mass micromolding production, and is a very good technological 
option for creating mass production of nanoscale components. 
References 
1. Y.J. Weng, S.Y. Yang: Polymer–Plastics Technology and Engineering Vol. 48 (2009), p.  
209-215 
2. Y.J. Weng, Y.C. Weng, S.Y. Yang, J.L Wong: Polymers for Advanced Technologies Vol.19: 
(2008), p. 1704-1709 
3. Y.J. Weng: Technological Development of Advanced Asymmetric Magnetic Soft Mold 
Micro-Imprint Lithography. Polymer–Plastics Technology and Engineering.(2010) in press 
Fig.9. Gauss meter measurement of cylinder roller surface magnetic force with respect to: (a)
Cylinder diameter (b) PDMS composite magnetic iron powder thickness
Fig.10. Measurement of placement cylinder
rolling force on pressure-sensitive film
Fig. 11. SEM images of microstructures (a) 
Primary nickel mold (b) PC film (c) Magnetic 
PDMS soft mold (d) Magnetic rolling 
surface planarization and glossing after electrochemical polishing with different polish time and in 
different solutions, in order to obtain the proper polish time.  
Experimental  
Experimental procedures. This work used the copper block material in a shape of round bar, with 
purity 99.9%, diameter of 15 mm and length of 100 mm. It was first cut into wafers with thickness 
of 2mm by using a line cutting machine, and the wafers were inlayed into bakelite with an inlaying 
machine. The wafers surfaces were rubbed down gradually with SiC sandpaper, polished with 
alumina powder of grain sizes of 1.0μm, 0.3μm, and 0.05μm. The test wafers were immerged in 
alcohol, washed and vibrated with ultrasonic and dried for use. After mixing the solution with 
microbalance and beaker, a Potentiostat (Jiehan 5000, Jiehan Sci-Tech Co., Ltd.), was used to make 
dynamic potential polarization curve and carry out electrochemical polish. The copper block 
material after electrochemical polish was immerged in DI pure water and alcohol, washed and 
vibrated with ultrasonic, and dried. The surface roughness after electrochemical polish was 
measured by AFM. The results were analyzed and discussed. 
Experimental design. This work first polished copper material, and used three electrolytes for 
electrochemical polishing. The planarization efficiency of different electrolytic solutions to surface 
roughness was observed. The calculated formula of solution concentration is shown as Table 1. To 
understand the effect of electrochemical polish time on planarization, the time parameter was set as 
20s to 100s, with 10 sec between each interval, thus, having 9 parameters. Then, anode cycle 
polarization method was used to study the anode polarization of chips plated with copper and 
silicon in different solutions and parameters. In this experiment, the relative electrode was 
platinum-titanium mesh, reference electrode was calomel electrode (SCE), scanning range was 
-1000-3000 mV, and scanning rate was 2 mV/s, while all potentials were corresponding to SCE. 
Planarization efficiency is defined as follows: 
 
 
Table. 1. Calculated formula of solution concentration 
Formula 85% phosphoric acid solution. (cc) Glycerin solution (cc) Total (cc) 
1 200 0 200 
2 180 20 200 
3 160 40 200 
Results and Discussions 
This work used AFM to measure the copper block material with mechanical polishing but not 
electrochemical polishing, in order to obtain initial surface topography and roughness, to use as a 
benchmark to the polished material. Figure 1 shows the 2D and 3D AFM surface images of copper 
block material mechanical polished. It’s surface roughness after mechanical polish was 6.921 nm. 
Planarization efficiency (nm/sec) =  Ra before EP—Ra after EP                       (1)  
   Action time of EP
160 Precision Engineering
   
Fig. 3. The curve of action time and action voltage during electrochemical polish process in 
different electrolytes (a) phosphoric acid solution (b) glycerin solution 20㏄ (c) glycerin solution 
40㏄ 
 
 
  
Fig. 4. AFM image after electrochemical polish for 50 seconds (a) phosphoric acid solution (b) 
phosphoric acid solution 160㏄ and glycerin solution 20㏄ (c) phosphoric acid solution 160㏄ and 
glycerin solution 40㏄
Influence of different electrochemical polish time on surface planarization. To understand 
the effect of electrochemical polish time on planarization, this work applied planarization efficiency 
for analysis. Figure 5 shows the planarization efficiencies of pure phosphoric acid solution with 
different electrochemical polish times. As seen, with the increase of electrochemical polish time, the 
planarization efficiency decreased. It is because when the original surface of copper material is 
rough, at the beginning of electrochemical polish, the surface roughness decreases rapidly; while 
with the increase of electrochemical polish time, the surface becomes smoother, thus the surface 
roughness decreases in a decreasing trend. As a result, longer electrochemical polish time would 
reduce the planarization efficiency. 
Influence of electrochemical polish solution on surface gloss. Figure 6 shows the surfaces after 
electrochemical polish in different formulas for 50 sec. The left side the lattice images of 
mechanical polish surface, and the right side is the electrochemical polish surface. As seen, the left 
side is dim, while right side is bright. It is concluded that the surface not only could be flattened but 
also glossed after electrochemical polish.  
(a) (b) (c)
(b) (a) (c) 
162 Precision Engineering
 A Study on Application of Making Porous Micro-Structural Aluminum 
Oxide Template by Anodic Aluminum Oxide Processing Technology in 
Cell Reproduction  
Y. J. Weng1, a, J. C. Huang2,b , Y. C. Weng3,c, Y. C. Wong4,d, 
H. K. Liu5,e, and S. Y. Yang3,f 
1Center for General Education, Kainan University, Taoyuan, 338, Taiwan 
2Department of Mechanical Engineering, Tungnan University, ShenKeng, 222, Taiwan 
3Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan  
4Department of Polymer Engineering, NTUST, Taipei. 106, Taiwan 
5Automobile Department, Nan-Chiang Vocational High School, Sindiani, 231, Taiwan 
ayjweng@mail.knu.edu.tw, bjchuang@mail.me.tnu.edu.tw, cr92522713@ntu.edu.tw, 
dsubaru3970@yahoo.com.tw, eiou6866@yahoo.com.tw, fsyyang@ntu.edu.tw 
Keywords: Anodic Aluminum Oxide, Cell proliferation, Surface roughness, Nano porous structure 
 
Abstract. This study employed the Anodic Aluminum Oxide (AAO) method twice for AAO 
processing to prepare neatly-arranged aluminum oxide film micro nano porous structure, and 
conducted experiments by adjusting different condition parameters (current, voltage, and 
temperature). The experimental results showed that voltage would directly affect the pore space and 
surface roughness of the aluminum oxide film. In addition, after anodic treatment, the positive and 
negative surfaces demonstrated varying degrees of roughness under the same conditions. In this 
study, the experiment of surface roughness impact on cell proliferation demonstrated that cell 
proliferation was better when surface roughness was in the range of 0.4 nm < Ra < 1.2 nm.  
Introduction 
Porous aluminum oxide model was first proposed by Keller in 1953 [1]. Literature points out that, the 
ideal porous aluminum oxide should be formed by most densely accumulated hexagonal cells, and 
there should be a star-shaped pore at the center of each cell. However, later on, modifications through 
studies [2] proved that the pore at the cell center should be round instead of star-shaped. When AAO 
becomes stable at a given voltage, the barrier thickness would be fixed, while the porous layer 
thickness is determined by current density, oxidation time, and electrolyte temperature. Increasing 
oxidation time and current density would lead to thicker porous oxidation layer. Li [3] used different 
electrolytes of sulfuric acid, oxalic acid, and phosphoric acid to produce AAOs at different pore 
diameters, and the matrix of hexagons. Literature shows that the pore diameter reaches the maximum 
when using phosphoric acid as electrolyte, followed by oxalic acid and euphoric acid. Setoh and 
Miyata [4] proposed the formation mechanism of AAO, and suggested that the oxygen ions in water 
would react with an aluminum plate to form a new barrier, and the formation of pores was due to the 
erosion of negative ions and the entrapment of oxygen ions in the barrier that prevent the reaction of 
metals and solutions. The reason that pores were vertical against the substrate surface growth was due 
to the impact of balancing the electric field [5].  
This study aims to use AAO processing technology to produce a porous micro structural mold for 
applications in cell proliferation, and a regular nano pore aluminum oxide template, produced by 
AAO technology as the cell proliferation culture substrate. In addition, it explores and evaluates the 
application in cell proliferation of regulating aluminum oxide substrate micro structures of the same 
pore diameters and varying degrees of surface roughness by adjusting AAO experimental parameters, 
in terms of mold surface structural characteristics.  
Key Engineering Materials Vols. 447-448 (2010) pp 356-360
© (2010) Trans Tech Publications, Switzerland
doi:10.4028/www.scientific.net/KEM.447-448.356
All rights reserved. No part of contents of this paper may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the written permission of the
publisher: Trans Tech Publications Ltd, Switzerland, www.ttp.net. (ID: 192.192.250.176-11/06/10,08:21:46)
 aluminum substrate, use deionized water to clean the remaining CuCl2. HCl to obtain the milk white 
or light yellow porous AAO film, as shown in Figure 4(b). Step 7: Remove barrier: Put the test piece 
into 8% phosphoric acid for treatment under 30℃ to remove the barrier at the back of the aluminum 
oxide, as shown in Figure 5. Step 8: Widen: after removing the aluminum oxide barrier, remove the 
test piece and clean by deionized water, then dip the aluminum oxide into 30% phosphoric acid to 
adjust different widening times by varying pore diameters. Clean with deionized water afterwards. 
The AAO film after the widening treatment would have larger and more uniform pore size, as shown 
in Figure 6. 
 
 
   
Fig. 3. Appearance of test piece after primary 
anodizing treatment (a) Aluminum oxide film test 
piece after primary anodizing treatment (b) 
Removal of aluminum oxide layer by 30% 
phosphoric acid. Fig. 2. Operational mode 
 
     
Fig. 4. Appearance of test piece, after secondary 
anodizing treatment (a) Aluminum oxide film 
test piece after secondary anodizing treatment 
(b) Removal of aluminum substrate 
Fig. 5. SEM picture of aluminum oxide surface, 
after removal of barrier layer (a) Nano-pore and 
barrier layer of aluminum oxide (b) Surface of 
anodic aluminum oxide after complete removal 
of barrier layer. 
 
     
Figure 6. SEM picture of anodic aluminum oxide film after broaching treatment under 30℃ and in 
30% phosphoric acid (a) Anodic aluminum oxide surface after broaching for 30 min (b) Anodic 
aluminum oxide surface, after broaching for 60 min 
 
Cell reproduction culture procedure. A 20mg sample was placed into the untreated 3cm culture 
dish, implanted with 350 cell/cm
2
 fibroblast cells L929 and 3T3L1 for culture in 37°C CO2 incubator 
(5% CO2 , 95% air). The culture medium was replaced daily, and fiber samples were removed after 5 
days of culture and cleaned three times by PBS. A 50μL trypsin (0.25% w/v) 37℃ incubator was used 
to color them for 10 minutes, and added with 100μL fresh culture fluid. After centrifugal treatment of 
(a) (b) 
(b) (a) 
358 Precision Engineering
       
Figure 10. Cultivation of 3T3L1 cells under 
surface roughness 0.4 nm < Ra < 1.2 nm (a) The 
first day (b) The fourth day 
Figure 11. Cultivation of 3T3L1 cells under 
surface roughness Ra < 0.4 nm or Ra > 1.2 nm (a) 
The first day (b) The fourth day 
      
Figure 12. Cultivation of L929 cells under 
surface roughness 0.4 nm < Ra < 1.2 nm (a) The 
first day (b) The fourth day 
Figure 13. Cultivation of L929 cells under surface 
roughness Ra < 0.4 nm or Ra > 1.2 nm 
Conclusions 
This study applied AAO processing technology to prepare a porous micro structural nano porous 
aluminum oxide template, and discussed its application in a cell proliferation mechanism. The  results 
showed that voltage directly affects pore space and surface roughness of the aluminum oxide. In 
addition, the experiment on the impact of surface roughness on cell proliferation found that, cell 
proliferation was better when the surface roughness was in the range of 0.4 nm < Ra < 1.2 nm. 
 
Acknowledgement 
The authors gratefully acknowledge the sponsorship from National Science Council of  Taiwan, ROC, 
under grant no. NSC 98-2221-E-424-002. 
References 
[1] F. Keller, M.S. Hunter and D.L. Robinson: J. Electro. Soc Vol. 100 (1953), p. 411 
[2] D. Routkevitch, A.N. Govyadinov and P.P. Mardilovich: MEMS Vol. 2 (2000), p. 39  
[3] Y. Li, G.W. Meng, L.D. Zhang and F. Phillipp: Appl. Phys. Lett Vol. 76 (2000), p. 15 
[4] Setoh and S. Miyata: Sci. Pap. Inst. Phys. Chem. Res. Tokyo (1932)  
[5] O. Jessensky, F. Muller and U. Gosele: Appl. Phys. Lett Vol. 72 (1998), p. 1173 
[6] G.M. Whitesides and B. Grzybowski: Science [J]. 295 (2002) 418 
[7] T. Kresge, M.E. Leonowicz, J.C. Vartuli and J.S. Beck: Nature Vol. 359 (1992), p. 710 
[8] R.B. Wehrpohn, J.N. Chazalviel and F. Ozanam: Materials Science & Engineering B Vol. 69 
(2000), p. 10 
[9] M. Hideki, Y. Haruki, S. Masahiro, A. Hidetaka, N. Masashi and T. Toshiaki: Appl. Phys. Lett 
Vol. 71 (1997), p. 2770 
[10] G.S. Huang, X.L. Wu, Y. Xie, X.F. Shao and S.H. Wang: J. Appl. Phys Vol. 94 (2003), p. 2407 
[11] W.L. Xu, M.L. Zheng, S.Wu and W.Z. Shen: Appl. Phys. Lett Vol. 85 (2004), p. 4364 
[12] T. Albrektosson, P.I. Bremark, H.A. Hansson and I. Lundstrom: Acta Orthop Scand Vol. 52 
(1981), p. 155 
360 Precision Engineering
The processes of SU-8 ridge waveguide devices with microstructures. In this study, we utilize 
a homebrew gas-assisted imprint device together with a light-transmitting sealed cavity made from 
medium-carbon steel as shown in Figure 1, which is also designed by ourselves. The specimen 
process procedures in this study (Figure 2) include replicating the microstructure of the mold to the 
plastic film by gas-assisted hot imprint, casting PDMS on the film surface with structures and 
obtaining an equivalent pattern with the original mold, daubing some photoresist on this mold, 
putting together the mold and the substrate materials with well-proportioned gas pressure, and 
solidifying the photoresist by UV and getting a rudiment of SU-8 ridge waveguide device. Please 
refer to Figure 3. 
Table 1. Parameters for nano-indention test 
Variable 
Condition!Parameter Range! Static Variable
Load  
Holding Time 5 sec Loadΰµȃα 
10, 20, 30, 40, 
50, 60, 70, 80, 
90, 100, 150, 200 Unloading Rate 160µȃ/s
Load 200uN
Loading Rate  
Loading 
Rate
ΰµȃ/sα 
1, 5, 10, 20, 50, 
100, 200, 500 
Unloading Rate 160µȃ/s
Load 500µȃ
Loading Rate 160µȃ/s
Holding 
Time
ΰsecα 
1, 5, 10, 100, 
300, 600, 900 
Unloading Rate 160µȃ/s
 
 
 
 
Results and Discussions 
N ano-indention tests on SU-8 photoresist with different loads. Figure 4 demonstrates the elastic 
deformation when the applied load is around 90A. The character of this stage is the linear 
relationship (stress – response) after the head is pushed into SU-8 photoresist and polymers on its 
surface. Such relationship is also called the glass state. In this study, we utilize spring components 
to represents the elastic mechanical properties, as shown in Figure 5(a). If time or load is increased, 
the elasticity is turned into plasticity gradually. This course can be represented by an elastic/plastic 
startup switch, as shown in Figure 5 (b). Figure 6(a) shows that if small load (within 200A) and 
shallow depth (within 100nm) are applied, the indention is quite hard and becomes softer with the 
increase of the load. The hardness goes towards a constant value, as shown in Figure 6(b). This 
phenomenon is a result of elastic and plastic deformations, which are included in the definition of 
nano-indention’s hardness. When load is small and depth is shallow, elastic deformation has a 
comparatively high proportion in the indention depth. Meanwhile, SU-8 has a high elastic 
Fig. 2. Workflow of UV 
solidification for gas-assisted 
Fig. 1. Diagram of the cavity 
structure, imprinted by 
gas-assisted UV solidification 
Fig. 3. Rudiment of SU-8 
ridge waveguide device
540 Precision Engineering
will be. This phenomenon is supposed to be related to the diffusion induced by the stress and 
demonstrates the dependency between indention depth and pressure duration. It results in the plastic 
deformation. Besides, the experiment results also show that its slop drops from a large initial value 
rapidly. This indicates that the deformation is a result of changing number, mode, or arrangement of 
cross-linked polymers. To conclude, the final indention depth may be different under different 
pressure durations. The indention hardness tends to drop as the pressure duration increases, as 
shown in Figure 8(b). 
The deformation mechanism of nano-indention. Summarizing the above results and behaviors, 
the deformation mechanism and indenter change of SU-8 in the different stages during 
nano-indention under various conditions are listed in Figure 9. When the indenter is pushed on the 
surface of waveguide’s microstructure and generating a deformation, the amount of deformation has 
a linear relationship with the stress. In this stage, the material shows elastic deformation. If the 
stress is increased to a value beyond material’s elastic limit (yielding strength), the cross-linked 
polymers starts moving and result in a great deal of displacement. As the plastic deformation 
continues, this behavior increases the entire back stress. At this time, an external shear stress is 
required to maintain the hardening of indention. The function of a rate effect is just like the 
phenomenon of a damper between the cross-linked polymers (C1 and C2). Higher the loading rate, 
larger the damp will be. Because of the increased loading rate, the cross-linked polymers have to 
generate equivalent displacements under the conditions of same indention depth. This indicates that 
the average speed in the same time frame has to be high. Therefore, a significant acceleration is 
required. This necessary condition also indicates that the cross-linked polymers have to suffer from 
great forces to complete this action. As a result, the external power applied should be increased. 
Under equivalent indention depth, the external force increases with the loading rate. Higher loading 
rate may result in higher hardness. During the holding time, the force applied on the damper result 
in the sliding because of decreasing deformation speed. At the same time, the spring’s compression 
is enhanced in the indention movement. It results in the increment of back pressure. If the back 
pressure is increased to a value that is enough for standing against the external force, the plastic 
deformation stops. Similarly, if the loading rate is slow, the damp is relatively small. The release of 
holding time is therefore limited. The indention actions can not move forward anymore. This also 
explains the impact of loading time on the creep behaviors. 
0 100 200 300 400 500
Loading Rate (PN
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
H
ar
dn
es
s 
(G
P
a)
  
Fig. 7. The nano-indention tests on SU-8 photoresist with different load rates. 
542 Precision Engineering
無研發成果推廣資料 
