漸進式影像傳輸之影像認證技術之研究
中文摘要：
漸進式影像傳輸的技術對於有頻寬限制或時間考量時的環境是一種相當實用的方式，
在此種傳輸模式中，影像可能在未完全被傳送出去或未完全被接收完，就因為已得到足夠的
影像資訊，因此，影像的傳輸被停止。然而，目前已接收的影像也必須檢查其完整性。在本
計畫中，我們提出漸進式影像的認證技術，此一技術配合漸進式影像編碼方法，將認證碼依
序藏入各階段的影像碼中。當接收漸進式影像時，可依序萃取出先前所藏入的認證碼，此認
證碼和目前所接收漸進式影像作相關的比較，可依此驗證漸進式影像。實驗結果顯示，本計
畫所研究之方法可在不同階段驗證不同精細的影像，同時，可標示出影像被竄改的區域。
關鍵詞; 漸進式影像編碼 、漸進式影像認證
ABSTRACT
The image transmission over the Internet with progression is preferable and provided by most
of image encoders such as SPIHT, EZW, JPEG 2000, etc. The progressive image transmission
benefits the applications such as low-band channel or time-critical in which the transmission can
be halted according to the user requirement. However, the received partial image should also be
authenticated to ensure the transmission security. In this paper, a watermarking-based
authentication scheme for progressive transmission images is proposed. The authentication code
is extracted from the image content, which preserves the characteristic for progressive
authentication. The authentication code embedding is incorporated to the multi-stage encoding.
The embedded authentication code can be extracted progressively to authenticate the current
received images. The experimental results show the validity of the proposed progressive images
authentication. Furthermore, the size of the proposed authentication code is small, so that, the
distortion of watermarked image is less.
1. INTRODUCTIONS
Digital information transmission over the open channel such as Internet always encounters the
challenge of communication security. Image authentication scheme is proposed to solve the
problem in which the integrity of the received image is authenticated. Several image
authentication schemes have been proposed. In these schemes, they can be classified into the
digital signature-based and the watermarking-based approaches. The digital signature-based
approach attaches the authentication code either in the header of the image file or as an
independent file. On the other hand, the watermarking-based approach embeds the authentication
code into the image to be transmitted. The watermarking-based approach saves the space for
authentication code but pays the degradation of the watermarked image. Generally, the
watermarking-based approach is difficult to embed the authentication code and to preserve the
image perspective.
Most of image authentication schemes [1-6] focus the authentication to the complete image.
In other words, the authentication for the received partial image is not performed until the
complete image is received. The complete image authentication restricts the applications of the
progressive image transmission. After all, the progressive image transmission is useful on a
time-critical or a low-band channel application in which the most important information is earlier
transmitted as soon as possible and stopped once the received information is enough.
Based on these observations, the authentication code is composed of the high-level tree
coefficients from one of three sub-bands. However, the size of the authentication code consists of
DWT coefficients is so larger. The smaller size of the authentication code incurs the less
modification and the higher perspective to the watermarked image. Therefore, reducing the size
of the authentication code is further explored.
To reduce the authentication code size, the selected coefficients from a sub-band are
quantized. The coefficient quantization is performed by the exponent operation. For example, a
coefficient magnitude 278 will be quantized to 8 (i.e., 28＜＝278＜29). The quantization
effectively reduces the authentication size. Furthermore, the multi-stage encoding is also
concerned to reduce the authentication code size. In the multi-stage encoding, the main structure
of an image is processed in the earlier stages and the refined image information is processed in the
last stages. Generally, the information encoded in the earlier stages is not sufficient to identify an
image. On the other hand, the refined image information contained the last stages may be discard
for most of important information is received. Therefore, only the information encoded in the
middle stages is selected as the authentication code. From that, the quantized authentication code
is further scaled. An example shown in Table 1 illustrates the authentication code generation.
The original DWT coefficients are shown in Table 1(a). The quantized authentication code by
using the exponent operation is shown in Table 1(b). The scaled authentication code from Table
1(b) is shown in Table 1(c), in which the quantized values of 0,1and 2 are scaled to zero.
In this paper, the LH4 sub-band coefficients are extracted, quantized and scaled to generate
the authentication code. The authentication code also still preserves the rough coefficient
magnitude. For example, the authentication code valued at 2 shown in Table 1(c) implies the
corresponding coefficient magnitude is greater than or equal to 16. Similarly, authentication code
valued at 1 indicates the corresponding magnitude is greater than or equal to 8 and less than 16.
To perform the importance of the authentication code, the most significant bit of the
authentication code is first extracted to form a MSB bit plane. And then, the second MSB forms
another bit plane. The first and second MSB bit planes of the authentication code shown in Table
1(c) are composed of 1000000000000000 and 00110000000000000, respectively. The first MSB
bit plane is more important than the second MSB bit plane. The more important MSB bit plane
will be embedded than the second MSB bit plane.
Table 1. Example of the authentication code
(a) Original (b) Quantized (c) Scaled
2.2 THE EMBEDDING PROCEDURE
Once the authentication code is generated, the embedding procedure based on the
multi-stage encoding is performed. In the multi-stage encoding, the significant DWT coefficients
26 7 13 10 4 2 3 3 2 0 1 1
-7 6 6 4 2 2 2 2 0 0 0 0
4 -4 4 -3 2 2 2 1 0 0 0 0
1 -2 -2 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0
encoding stages. From that, the earlier decoded image can be authenticated by the authentication
code, which is extracted from the earlier decoded image.
2.3 THE AUTHENTICATION PROCEDURE
In the authentication procedure, the embedded authentication code is extracted from the
received image to verify the content of the progressive decoded image. Based on the multi-stage
encoding/decoding algorithm, the progressive decoded image can be authenticated when the
embedded authentication code is received. Because the first MSB bit plane of the authentication
code is first embedded in the earlier encoding stages, so it will be extracted in the earlier decoding
stages. Once the authentication code is extracted, the current decoded image can be authenticated.
If the current decoded image is authenticated, the next decoding stage can be done. Otherwise,
the decoding processing is halted for the malicious manipulation is detected and the decoded
image is unauthenticated. The authentication can be performed once the authentication bit is
extracted. In other words, the multi-stage decoded image can be authenticated progressively.
In the authentication processing, the image is reconstructed progressively according to the
multi-stage decoding. Once the embedded first MSB bit plane is received and extracted, the first
authentication processing can be performed. The first MSB bit plane of the authentication code
can be used to verify the coefficient magnitude in the LH4 sub-band. The authentication
processing compares the authentication bit and the current reconstructed magnitude in LH4
sub-band. Because the authentication bit preserves the characteristic to indicate the rough
coefficient magnitude, so, the comparison between the rough magnitude and the reconstructed
magnitude of the corresponding coefficient can be used to authenticate the current decoded image.
If the comparison result indicates that the malicious operation is detected, the position of the
tampered area can be located and the transmission is halted. Otherwise, the current decoded
image is authenticated. However, the current authentication processing only verifies the current
decoded image. The refined information will be received in the following stages and the further
authentication should be performed when the further authentication code is extracted.
Since the authentication can be preformed stage by stage, the progressive decoded image is
verified from rough to detail. The significant modification can be located in the earlier
authentication stages. The slight modification is detected in the last authentication stages when
the detailed image information is received. Once the first authentication processing is
authenticated, the following refined image is reconstructed. The second MSB bit plane is
extracted when the coefficients in HL4 sub-band are available. Similar authentication processing
is performed to authenticate the detailed image. In this authentication processing, the first and
the second authentication bits are combined to further verify the more detailed image information.
From that, the progressive decoded image can be authenticated progressively.
3. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
Several experiments were performed to evaluate the validity of the proposed method. A set
of gray-level test images of 512512 pixels were used in the experiments. These test images are
first transformed into four-level DWT coefficients using the Haar transformation. The magnitude
of LH4 sub-band coefficient is selected and quantized by the exponent operation. The quantized
magnitude is further scaled to form the authentication code. In this experiment, four scaled
authentication code (with 2-bit binary) is employed. The first and the second MSBs of the
authentication code are embedded into LL and HL4 sub-bands, respectively.
authentication of the received partial image is also required for security.
To evaluate the validity of the proposed progressive image authentication method, several
experiments were performed. The experimental results were shown in Fig. 2. The
watermarked image of the first MSBs of the authentication code embedded in threshold (TH) 64
was shown in Fig. 2(a) with PSNR 27.74 dB. The second MSBs was embedded during the
encoding of threshold (TH) 32. The watermarked image was shown in Fig. 2(b) with PSNR
30.42 dB. By comparing the PSNR between Figs. 1(c), 1(d) and 2(a), 2(b), it is shown that the
degradation of the watermarked image is near ignored. After this encoding process, all of the
authentication code was embedded into the watermarked image. The following encoding stages
were performed sequentially and the complete watermarked image was shown in Fig. 2(c) with
PSNR 37.08 dB. The tampered image was created in which the watermarked image shown in Fig.
2(c) was modified. In Fig. 2(d), two dots were inserted into the image Lena’s arm and hair with
different significances. The authentication results using Fig. 2(d) were shown in Figs. 2(e) and
2(f), respectively. When the first MSBs authentication code were received and extracted, the
authentication processing was performed immediately. The authentication result was shown in
Fig. 2(e). From Fig. 2(e), it is noted that only the significant modification in Lena’s arm is
located.
When further detailed image information is received, the second MSB authentication code
can be extracted. All of extracted authentication bits (the first and the second MSBs) were
combined to perform the more precise authentication. The authentication result was shown in Fig.
2(f). In Fig. 2(f), both of tampered areas were correctly located even though the insignificant
modification in Lena’s hair. From these experimental results, it is shown that the proposed
progressive image authentication is achieved.
(a) Reconstructed, TH=256,
PSNR=22.24dB
(b) Reconstructed, TH=128,
PSNR=25.00dB
(c) Reconstructed, TH=64,
PSNR=27.86dB
(d) Reconstructed, TH=32,
PSNR=31.11dB
(e) Reconstructed, TH=16,
PSNR=34.82dB
(f) Reconstructed, TH=8,
PSNR=38.94dB
Fig. 1. The progressively reconstructed images with different thresholds
4. Lin, C. Y., and Chang, S. F.: A Robust Image Authentication Method Distinguishing JPEG
Compression from Malicious Manipulation. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems of
Video Technology, Vol. 11, 2(2001) 153-168.
5. Xie, L., Arce, G. R., and Graveman, R. F.: Approximate Image Message Authentication Codes.
IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, vol. 3, 2(2001) 242-252.
6. Tsai, P., and Hu, Y. C.: A Watermark-Based Authentication with Malicious Detection and
Recovery. The Fifth International Conference on Information, Communications & Signal
Processing (ICICS 2005), Bangkok, Thailand. (2005) 865-869.
7. Tsai, P., Hu, Y. C., and Chang, C. C: Using Set Partitioning in Hierarchical Trees to
Authenticate Digital images. Signal Processing: Image Communication, Vol. 18, (2003), pp.
813-822.
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
□ 可申請專利 ▊ 可技術移轉 日期： 年 月 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：漸進式影像傳輸之影像認證技術之研究
計畫主持人： 蔡丕裕
計畫編號：NSC 94－2213－E －239－008－ 學門領域：
技術/創作名稱 漸進式影像認證技術
發明人/創作人 蔡丕裕
中文：本計畫所提方法擷取具漸進式影像特性的內容作為認證碼並
將此認證碼藏入影像中因此不需要額外增加認證碼的傳送和儲存
在漸進式影像重建過程中任整碼部段的萃取出來並依此驗證目前
所重建影像的安全當重建有想所接收到的資訊越多時認證碼也越
詳細因此認證的結果也越完整
技術說明
英文：The proposed method extracts the feature of image with
progressive transmission as the authentication code. The
authentication code is then progressively embedded into the
image to be transmitted, such that, the storage for
authentication code is saved. The embedded authentication
code is extracted progressively according to the
progressively reconstructed image. The progressively
extracted authentication code is used to verify the current
reconstructed image content. When the reconstructed image
is more detailed, the more authentication code is extracted
and the more precise of the image can be verified.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
本計畫所研發之技術可應用於數位影像擷取設備
技術特點
漸進式影像傳輸價透下之未完整重建影像之認證
附件二
