整合田口方法與六標準差管理以改善液晶顯示器關鍵製程(I) 
 
Integrating Taguchi method with six sigma management to improve 
key manufacturing processes in LCD industry (I) 
計 畫 編 號 ：NSC 96-2221-E-035-039   
執 行 期 限 ：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主   持   人：李明賢  逢甲大學工業工程研究所教授 
計畫參與人員：雷方奕  逢甲大學工業工程研究所研究生 
                  吳旻憲  逢甲大學工業工程研究所研究生 
曹軍偉  逢甲大學工業工程研究所研究生 
 
 
中文摘要 
 
本研究的目的乃是整合六標準差管理和田口方
法降低錫膏厚度之變異。LCD電路板的表面黏
著技術(Surface Mount Technology, SMT)具有
提升組裝密度，減輕重量，減少電感電容和阻
抗並且可降低生產成本等優點，因此在LCD製
造業中扮演著相當重要的角色，SMT製程中所
發生的缺陷，約有50% ~ 70%是因錫膏印刷製
程的不當設定所引起。錫膏厚度會影響焊點的
品質，因此如何在製造過程中降低錫膏厚度之
變異，乃是重要的課題。本研究針對可能影響
錫膏焊點品質之因素，諸如刮刀角度、刮刀速
度、脫模速度、鋼板開孔面積比率、鋼板開孔
形狀、銲墊面積、作業環境溫度和擦拭頻率等
控制因子進行實驗，找出最佳製程參數水準，
以提高焊接的品質。 
 
關鍵詞：六標準差管理，田口方法，表面黏
著技術。 
 
1. Abstract 
 
   The purpose of this study is to integrate 
Taguchi method with six sigma management 
to reduce the variation of the thickness of 
deposited solder paste on printed circuit 
board (PCB) pads. Surface mount technology 
(SMT) has enabled LCD industries produce 
more reliable assemblies at a reduced weight, 
volume, and cost. Previous quality reports 
show that 50%~70% of SMT defects are 
related to solder paste printing process. 
Practically, large deviations of solder 
thickness from a nominal value result in 
SMT defects that may cause the failure of 
printed circuit board. The 
Define-Measure-Analyze-Improve-Control 
(DMAIC) six sigma approach and Taguchi 
method was adopted to investigate several 
key controllable process factors including: 
squeegee angle, squeegee speed, screen 
printing speed, ratio of solder area to pad 
area, aperture shape, aperture size, operating 
temperature, and clean frequency. The 
optimal control factors are found and 
confirmed. The thickness variation was 
reduced and thereby increasing yield rate. 
 
Keywords: Six Sigma Management, Taguchi 
Method, SMT 
 
2. Purpose of the Study 
This research employs the DMAIC approach 
to improve the capability of SMT solder 
printing process.  
 
3. Methodology 
   DMAIC approach was used to improve the 
performance of solder paste printing process 
as follows. Process mapping and identifying 
key QCH was carried out in the “Define” 
phase, while mean and range control charts 
followed by the estimates of process 
capability indices was adopted in the 
 1
1997. 
7. Self-evaluation 
 3
 
   This research focuses on improving the 
most critical process in SMT production line, 
which is the solder paste printing process by 
adopting DMAIC approach. This process has 
been found the major source of SMT defects, 
which in reality force process/product 
engineers spend more than 40 % of their time 
reasoning of the variations sources. 
Consequently, improving the capability of 
this process will save significant quality costs 
as well as production time. The results of this 
research has been published as shown in the 
following paper.  
Li, M-H, Al-Refaie, A., and Yang, C.Y., 
(2008) DMIAC Approach to Improve the 
Capability of SMT Solder Printing Proces
s, IEEE Transactions on Electronics Pack
aging Manufacturing. (SCI) Vol. 31, No. 
2, pp. 126-133.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
