strategies often lead to channel and brand conflicts. 
To improve the performance of the supply chain, the 
interest of revenue sharing contract has been 
increasing in supply chain management. The purpose of 
this project is to find an optimal retail and 
wholesale prices, brand strategy and channel 
structure. Furthermore, this study provides 
corresponding management insights into how the 
revenue sharing contract affects the decisions. Nash 
and Stackelberg game models are formulated and used 
to represent the decision-making of the manufacturer 
and retailer. We also derive the corresponding 
existence and uniqueness conditions for equilibrium 
solutions. A sensitivity analysis of an optimal 
decision is conducted for the model parameters and 
the profits are compared for different scenario 
settings. The results demonstrate that it would 
benefit the manufacturer and the retailer to develop 
of the Internet channel and the SB product, 
respectively. Furthermore, cooperative strategies 
exist such that the manufacturer and retailer are 
beneficial mutually. In order to achieve a win-win 
outcome for the manufacturer and retailer, we find an 
optimal revenue sharing ratio and two Pareto zones of 
revenue sharing ratios, which are Pareto zone of SB 
and Pareto zone of Internet channel under which the 
threat of entries of SB and Internet channel could be 
alleviated. Based on the results, the managerial 
insights are brought up to account for the 
motivations of the entries of Internet channels and 
SB products in supply chains. Moreover, this study 
provides the coordinate mechanism of the revenue 
sharing contract for the managers who are interested 
in introducing an Internet channel or a SB product. 
英文關鍵詞： supply chain management； channel conflict； brand 
conflict； pricing； game theory； revenue sharing 
contract 
 
i 
 
中文摘要 
 
網路銷售通路的引進及自有品牌的發展已成為製造商與零售商開發市場及
增加競爭力的銷售策略。許多文獻已分別討論網路通路與自有品牌對供應鏈的影
響，但尚未對該策略的互動進行討論與分析。本計畫探討的供應通路模型主要由
一個製造商的網路通路以及零售商的傳統通路所形成。製造商銷售產品至零售
商，並可透過自有的網路通路銷售產品給消費者。零售商除銷售該產品外，同時
銷售不同品牌的相似性商品。製造商與零售商以最大化各自利潤為目標。然而，
銷售自有品牌與引進網路通路可能造成產品品牌間與通路間的競爭。為改善整體
供應鏈的表現，利益分享契約可能成為合作的機制。本計畫探討產品的最佳批發
與零售價格、品牌策略與通路結構，更進一步提出相關的管理內涵如:利益分享
的契約如何影響製造商與零售商的決策。本研究以 Nash及 Stackelberg賽局模型
描述製造商與零售商的決策順序，並且探討最佳解的存在與唯一性，利用敏感度
分析探討模型中相關參數對於最佳解以及製造商與零售商決策的影響。本研究結
果顯示開發網路通路與自有品牌有利於製造商與零售商增加利潤，透過利益分享
可使雙方同時獲得更高的利潤。為達到雙贏的結果，本研究提出最佳利潤分享的
比例以及兩個柏拉圖區間，當利潤分享比例屬於該區間時，品牌與通路的衝突可
被緩和，研究結果同時說明製造商與零售商的開發通路與品牌的動機並提供管理
者一個以分享利潤為基的合作機制。 
 
關鍵字：供應鏈管理；通路衝突；品牌衝突；定價；賽局；利潤分享契約 
iii 
 
CONTENTS 
中文摘要......................................................................................................................... i 
ABSTRACT ................................................................................................................... ii 
CONTENTS ................................................................................................................. iii 
1. Introduction ................................................................................................................ 1 
1.1 Motivation .............................................................................................................. 1 
1.2 Research objective ................................................................................................... 2 
2. Literature Review....................................................................................................... 4 
2.1 Model for supply chain with channel competition ...................................................... 4 
2.2 Model for supply chain with brand competition ......................................................... 5 
2.3 Game theoretic applications in supply chain management .......................................... 6 
2.4 Consumer’s behavior ............................................................................................... 6 
2.5 The revenue sharing (RS) contract ............................................................................ 7 
3. Pricing Policies for Substitutable Products in a Supply Chain .................................. 9 
3.1 The model of the supply chain with Internet and traditional channels ......................... 9 
3.1.1 Pricing policy under the Nash game ................................................................. 12 
3.1.2 Pricing policy under the Stackelberg game........................................................ 14 
3.1.3 The identical case ........................................................................................... 15 
3.2 Numerical examples .............................................................................................. 19 
3.2.1 The effects of ib  and iβ  ............................................................................... 19 
3.2.2 The effect of a change of the competition structure ............................................ 21 
3.2.3 The effects of 1v  and 2v  ............................................................................... 22 
3.2.4 The effects of wholesale prices 1w  and 2w  .................................................... 25 
4. An Optimal Brand Strategy and Channel Structure ................................................. 27 
4.1 The evolutions of store brand and Internet channel model ........................................ 27 
1 
 
1. Introduction 
 
1.1 Motivation 
The rapid development of Internet technology has made it easy and practical to establish an Internet 
channel. Keenan and Ante (2002) and Tsay and Agrawal (2004) noted that use of an Internet channel can 
potentially reduce costs and lead to an increasing margin. It is estimated that Internet channel sales in the US 
will grow from $155.2 billion in 2009 to approximately $248 billion in 2014. According to a recent Forrester 
research report (Mulpuru et al. 2010), the growth in Internet channel sales will continue to outpace the 
increase in store channel sales, because of the lower price and greater convenience. Recognizing the 
potential of an Internet channel, about 42% of the leading manufacturers in a variety of industries, such as 
food or beverage (Coca Cola, Budweiser Beer), cosmetics manufacturers (H2O+ and Estee Lauder), sports 
producers (Nike), electronic and computer industry (Canon, Casio, Panasonic, Apple, HP and IBM), have 
shown interest in establishing an Internet channel to complement the retailer’s channel (traditional channel) 
like Wal-Mart and Best-Buy. According to Private-Label Manufacturer’s Association monthly publication 
(JANUARY 2006), six of every ten consumers said that the Internet gives them access to information about 
companies. 
We have done a survey of some consumer electronic products sold in Wal-Mart. In the digital camera 
catalog, manufacturers such as Canon and Casio not only distribute products to Wal-Mart but also use their 
own Internet channel as an avenue to sell products directly, while manufacturers such as Agfa Photo and 
Samsung only deliver products’ image and information without selling products through their website. 
Similar situations are observed in DVD player category wherein manufacturers such as Sony and Toshiba 
sell through both distribution channels, while the other manufacturers such as Magnavox and Samsung only 
sell through retailers. As a result, Wal-Mart sells some substitutable products but with different brand and 
some of these products may be sold through manufacturers’ Internet channel. Similar patterns could be 
observed in different retailers such as Walgreen, Best-Buy, etc. Furthermore, with the appearance of large 
retail channels, the power of the supply chain could gradually shift from the manufacturer to retailers. The 
manufacturer then struggles to get more orders from the retailer when substitutable products are sold in a 
traditional channel. As a result, there is then a question as to how the decisions on retail price should be 
made for different market power scenarios and also a question as to how the consumers’ brand loyalty and 
channel loyalty affect their decisions. 
With the advent of smart phone shopping, consumers compare the price rapidly. They may walk into 
brick-and-mortar store, get specific information about product and service from employees, try out the 
product or even take pictures without purchasing it, but then shopping online to find the same product with a 
lower retail price. This process is called Showrooming (John, 2012; Casey and Jeff, 2012). Jurgen Boyny of 
global research firm GfK Group pointed that this phenomena is happening all across Europe and in the U.S. 
Many retailers have tried to review prices of Internet stores when setting an initial retail price of a product. 
For instance, to end showrooming, Best Buy announces a latest police in 2013 Feb., which commits 
consumers that the retail price of all product categories is matched all local retail competitors and 19 major 
online competitors including Apple.com, Dell.com, HP.com. (Best Buy, 2013).  
From the traditional channel’s view of point, what polices can be adopted to control this problem and 
3 
 
1. How the decisions on retail price should be made for different market power scenarios among retailers 
and manufacturers and how the consumers’ brand loyalty and channel loyalty affect their decisions? 
2. How do brand competition and/or channel competition affect the profits of manufacturers and retailers? 
What kind of competition structure and brand strategy is mutually beneficial for manufacturers, retailers 
and consumers?  
3. Does a RS contract coordinate the members involved in the channel better under the wholesale price 
only contract? Do a brand competition and a channel conflict could be reduced by the RS contract?  
5 
 
traditional channel and an Internet channel. 
The effect of uncertainty on the supply chain is never ignored (Yue and Liu, 2006; Hsieh and Wu, 2009; 
Xu, et al., 2010). Dai et al. (2005) considered the pricing strategies of multiple retailers in competition for 
consumers. They derived the existence and uniqueness conditions for an optimal retail price, when retailers 
face a deterministic demand or a general stochastic demand. They analyzed the sensitivity of optimal retail 
prices with respect to the manufacturer’s capacity and cost parameters. Dumrongsiri et al. (2008) analyzed 
the effect of demand uncertainty on the equilibrium results, including the retail price and order decision. 
They also showed that variability in demand induces the manufacturer to introduce an Internet channel. 
 
2.2 Model for supply chain with brand competition 
There has been extensive mathematical model research attempting to analyze the effects of the 
emergence of SB on retailers and manufacturers. Through a game theoretical analysis, Raju et al. (1995) 
focused on a supply chain composed of one manufacturer and one retailer and showed that the retailer’s 
profit increases in a large number of NB products, low cross-price sensitivities among NB products and high 
cross-price sensitivities between NB and SB products. Mills (1995) and Narasimhan and Wilcox (1998) 
indicated that the introducing of SB products is a good strategy for retailers to elicit a lower wholesale price 
from NB manufacturers. Corstjens and Lal (2000) showed that a high quality SB product attracts consumers, 
increases the consumers’ store loyalty and increases the store profit for the retailer. Grozik and Heese (2010) 
assumed that a NB manufacturer can strategically adjust the NB product’s wholesale price to prevent an 
introduction of SB product by a retailer. They also analyzed the impact of wholesale price commitment on 
the manufacturer and the retailer. Heese (2010) developed a game theoretic framework to study the effect of 
SB entry on the interaction between a NB manufacturer and a retailer. They showed that increasing the 
quality of the NB product allows the NB manufacturer to mitigate the brand competition with the retailer. 
Kumar and Ruan (2006) and Kurata et al. (2007) modeled a supply chain with one manufacturer who 
distributes the product to a retailer. Besides, the retailer also carries a product of the other manufacturer. 
Kumar and Ruan (2006) assumed there are two types of consumers - either brand loyal or store loyal. They 
showed that the sizes of brand loyal segment and channel loyal segment influence the wholesale price as 
well as the retail price. They also shed light on how the consumer’s type impacts the manufacturer’s decision 
to complement his traditional channel with an Internet channel. Kurata et al. (2007) considered the 
consumer’s two decision processes in consumer decision-making: a decision made before the consumer 
arrives at a store and a decision made inside the store. Based on the results of the optimal retail price, they 
also observed that some marketing activities such as brand loyalty promotion and advertising may improve 
the profits for both the manufacturer and the retailer. Amrouche and Yan (2012) reassessed the impact of 
introducing the SB and Internet channel for the retailer and the manufacturer in three scenarios: only NB 
product is provided, SB product in introduced and the NB’s manufacturer engages an Internet channel. They 
revealed some interesting results which are different with previous studies (Mill 1995; Narasimhan and 
Wilcox, 1998), such as the entry of SB or Internet channel does not always damage the manufacturer and the 
retailer. Their results showed that the influences of SB’s quality, the consumer’s price sensitivity and the 
potential demand on the profits of the manufacturer and the retailer are significant. 
 
7 
 
the product’s brand and service value added to the product in the sales channel. 
The first factor is represented by different retail prices for substitutable products sold in different 
channels. However, when the retail price of a product goes up, people will buy less of that product. Hence, 
this law is used widely as a certain fundamental assumption about demand in economics and previous 
researches. Establishing brand loyalty is also important. In mixed traditional and Internet channel 
environment with substitutable products, brand has been considered an important inducer of trust. Brand 
familiarity and loyalty can greatly reduce consumer concerns of safety and quality and increase Internet 
sales. Note that marketing literature explains that consumers may become less price sensitive as the level of 
brand loyalty increases. Internet channel may charge higher prices due to brand loyalty power built by the 
product’s long presence in the traditional channel (Ba and Pavlou 2002; Zhang, 2005; Ba et al. 2007; 
Rabinovich et al., 2008). Similar results showed in Kurata et al. (2007), they also showed that marketing 
activities, such as advertising and in-store display, lead to more frequent brand switching and profit 
increasing.  
Finally, service value is also important. Service value includes the value of availabilities of product 
information, immediate ownership and interactions gained from shopping. Girard et al. (2003) showed that 
consumers, who are younger, price conscious, seeking convenience, are more likely to purchase product 
from Internet channel. On the other hand, consumers, who are older, are more likely to shop at traditional 
channel. Cattani et al. (2006) provided a different view point to discuss service value by the efforts for the 
two channels. The traditional effort may be thought as the distance of the store. The Internet effort may be 
thought as accessibility and comfort related to buying by the Internet channel. When consumers have 
inconvenient Internet access or consumers concern about the security of financial transaction over the 
Internet, the Internet effort is high. They also expect that the Internet effort will decrease over time for a 
particular product as consumers in general become more comfortable purchasing over the Internet. In real 
world, consumers are constrained by shopping time and the geographical distance of a traditional retail store. 
Internet channel overcomes above disadvantages and provide convenience for some part of consumers. On 
the other hand, compared with the Internet channel, the retailer’s traditional channel can provide more 
service especially in some industry such as electronic product, furniture and apparel. Liang and Huang (1998) 
showed that most of consumers are less acceptable from an Internet channel than a retail channel for many 
product categories. It is reported that the key restriction to Internet shopping is suspicion of Internet channel 
due to concerns about security and privacy and the lack of prior examination of physical products before 
purchase (Yalabik et al., 2005). Hence, some researchers modeled the competition between the traditional 
channel and the Internet channel based on the assumption that the retailer adds more service on the product 
sold in traditional channel (Chiang, et al. 2003; Yao and Liu, 2005). 
 
2.5 The revenue sharing (RS) contract 
The RS contract has been widely applied as coordinating mechanism on pricing strategy, order policy 
and risk reduction. Cachon and Lariviere (2005) considered a model with a RS contract for coordination of a 
retailer and a manufacturer. They also identified some limitations of the RS contract to account for why the 
RS contract is not prevalent in all industries. Furthermore, they showed that the RS contract is equivalent to 
buybacks and price discounts in the newsvendor case. Yao et al. (2008) showed that the demand variability 
9 
 
3. Pricing Policies for Substitutable Products in a Supply Chain 
In this section, we are interested in the optimal retail price in a supply chain, where the channel 
competition and brand competition exist simultaneously. Single period pricing policies are considered in a 
supply chain with two manufacturers and one independent retailer. Based on this supply chain model, we try 
to answer the following questions: how the decisions of two manufacturers and the retailer on retail price 
should be made in different market power scenario? How the consumers’ brand loyalty and channel loyalty 
affect their decisions?  
 
3.1 The model of the supply chain with Internet and traditional channels 
Manufacturer 1 sells a product (Product 1) to the retailer at the wholesale price 1w  and sells the 
product to consumers directly through an Internet channel at the retail price 0p . The retailer sells Product 1 
through a traditional channel at the retail price 1p . However, in addition to Product 1, the retailer also sells 
a substitutable product (Product 2) through the traditional channel at the retail price 2p . Product 2 is 
produced from Manufacturer 2 and is only distributed to the retailer at wholesale price 2w . Because the 
wholesale price is usually set as part of a long-term contract between the manufacturer and the retailer, it is 
assumed that the wholesale prices 1w  and 2w  are fixed and are exogenous in this study. Similar 
assumptions were posed in Dumrongsiri et al. (2008) and Kurata et al. (2007). In addition, we will relax this 
assumption in our numerical example to check the robustness of our results. In the scope of this study, we 
focus on a retail price competition for Manufacturer 1 and the retailer. Manufacturer 1 decides the retail 
price 0p  and the retailer decides the retail prices 1p  and 2p  of two substitutable products. Both 
Manufacturer 1 and the retailer choose their own decision variables to maximize their respective profits. Fig. 
3.1 shows the supply chain framework.  
 
1w
2w
0p
2p
1p
Manufacturer 2
Internet 
channelManufacturer 1
Traditional 
channel
Consumers
 
Fig. 3.1 Supply chain framework 
 
Compared with the Internet channel, the retailer can provide better service, such as sales explanation, 
immediate response and personal interaction, to customers through the traditional channel. As we mentioned 
before, the retailer will try to fight the showrooming phenomena by providing more service. To mimic this 
characteristic, we assume that the service value 0v  added to Product 1 sold through the Internet channel is 
null. The retailer provides a service value of 0iv >  for Product i  sold through the traditional channel, for 
i = 1, 2. It is reasonable to assume that i ip v>  (Yao and Liu, 2005). According to the results of Kurata et al. 
(2007) and Bucklin and Lattin (1991), there are two types of process for choice of brand in consumer 
decision-making. The first type involves consumers who have planned their shopping and make a decision 
based on personal preference, before arriving in a channel. Let 1 0β >  represent the cross-brand price 
sensitivity between Product 1 sold through the Internet channel and Product 2 sold through the traditional 
channel. The second type involves consumers who make decisions based on external information, such as 
11 
 
1 ( ) 0i i iFρ = − ∆ ≥  and i∆  is the expected sales quantity involving iz . In this study, iz  denote the stock 
factors for iD  and i i iq D z= × . The decision maker with a small value of iz  is considered risk-averse 
while with a large value of iz  is considered risk-prone. However, the quantities of Products 1 and 2 from 
the manufacturers 1 and 2 remain uncertain, when the orders arrive. Consequently, we model the allocation 
uncertainty in a multiplicative form: i i iY q y= ×  where iY  is deliverable quantity for the order quantity iq  
and iy  is a continuous random variable with ( )iE y = 1 over the interval [ , ]i iy y , i iy y≤ . Manufacturer 
1’s profit function Mπ  including the Internet channel profit ( )M Iπ  and the wholesale profit ( )M Wπ  can be 
expressed as follows: 
0 1 2( , ,  )M p p pπ = ( ) 0 1 2( , ,  )M I p p pπ + ( ) 0 1 2( , ,  )M W p p pπ                  (3.4) 
where  
{ }{ } { } { }
{ }{ } { }{ }
( ) 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
( , ,  ) min ,min , min , max ,0
                               max min , ,0 max min , ,0 ,
M I p p p E p X q Y c q Y m Y q
s q Y X t X q Y
π = − + −
+ − − − 
 
{ } { }( ) 0 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1( , ,  ) ( ) min , max ,0M W p p p E w c q Y m Y qπ = − + −  . 
Similarly, Manufacturer 2’s profit function 2Mπ  can be expressed as follows: 
{ } { }2 0 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2( , ,  ) ( ) min , max ,0M p p p E w c q Y m Y qπ = − + −  . 
Note that ic  is the respective unit distribution cost. There is a salvage value is  per unit of unsold 
inventory, a unit shortage cost it  and a salvage value im  for each unit of unallocated inventory when the 
allocated capacity exceeds the order iq . The retailer’s profit Rπ  including Product 1 sales profit (1)Rπ  and 
Product 2 sales profit (2)Rπ  can be formulated as follows:  
2
0 1 2 ( ) 0 1 2
1
( , ,  ) ( , ,  )R R i
i
p p p p p pπ π
=
= ∑ ,                               (3.5)  
{ }{ } [ ] { }
{ }{ } { }{ }
( ) 0 1 2where   ( , ,  ) min ,min , ( ) min ,
                                         + max min , ,0 max min , ,0 .
R i i i i i i i i i
i i i i i i i i
p p p E p X q Y w c v q Y
s q Y X t X q Y
π = − +
− − − 
  
A strictly convex service cost function ( )ic v  is used to depict the relationship between iv  and its 
related service cost. One practical form of the service cost function is 2( ) / 2i i ic v vη= , where 0iη >  is the 
service cost parameter (Yao and Liu, 2005; Yao et al., 2008). For brevity, Eqs. (3.4) and (3.5) are rewritten 
as follows:  
 
[ ]
[ ]
0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
1 1 1 1 1 1 1
( , ,  ) (1 ) ( ) ( )
                           ( ) (1 ) ,
M p p p p c m s t z D
w c m z D
π θ λ λ λ θ κ λ
λ λ
= − + − + − − −
+ − + −
 (3.6) 
13 
 
 2 2
1,
/ /
n
k k k k k i
i i k
x x x xπ π
= ≠
∂ ∂ ∂ > ∂ ∂ ∂∑ , k∀ , then the equilibrium solution is unique. 
The above results have been used extensively (Bernstein and Federgruen, 2004; Dai et al., 2005). The 
existence and uniqueness of an equilibrium solution is now studied for our model.  
Theorem 3.1: Mπ  and Rπ  are supermodular in 0 1 2( , , )p p p . 
By Lemma 1, the existence of the Nash equilibrium is assured. Theorem 3.1 also indicates that the 
increment in the profit, due to an increase in the self-decision variable, is increasing in other decision 
variables. 
Theorem 3.2: The Nash equilibrium is unique if the following condition holds: 
    
2 1 1 2 2 1
1 2 0 2 2 2
2
2
z b
b z
β θ β β
β β θ β
− −
< <
− −
.                           (3.8) 
Eq. (3.8) is satisfied easily as 1b  and 2b  increase or 0β , 1β  and 2β  decrease. In addition, Eq. (3.8) 
is reasonable because if consumers become less self-price sensitive then there may be multiple equilibrium 
solutions. On the other hand, if the consumer’s cross-brand or cross-channel price sensitivity becomes high, 
then the equilibrium solution may not be stable and may not exist. It is easily seen that the interval 
2 1 2 0 2 2 1 2[ / (2 ), (2 ) / ]b bβ β β β β β− − − −
 
is nonempty by Assumption 1. Henceforth, it is assumed that Eq. 
(3.8) holds and the superscript, * N , is used to denote the optimal value for the Nash game. The retail prices 
* * *
0 1 2( ,  ,  )
N N Np p p  are obtained by solving the following system of equations: 
0 1 2/ / / 0M R Rp p pπ π π∂ ∂ = ∂ ∂ = ∂ ∂ = . 
Theorem 3.3:  
(i) *Njp  decreases in ib , while it increases in iβ , ,  i j =0, 1, 2. 
(ii) *NRπ  and 
*
( )
N
M Iπ  decrease in ib , while they increase in iβ , i = 0, 1, 2.  
(iii) * ( )
N
M Wπ  decreases in ib , if and only if 
*
1
ND  decreases in ib , i = 0, 1, 2. 
(iv) * ( )
N
M Wπ  increases in iβ , if and only if 
*
1
ND  increases in iβ , i = 0, 1, 2. 
Theorem 3.3 reveals several managerial implications. Firstly, ib  has a negative impact on profits, 
while iβ  has a positive impact. Therefore, Manufacturer 1 and the retailer may opt to provide or adjust 
marketing activities accordingly, in order to raise their respective profits. For instance, the retailer should 
increase consumers’ brand loyalty for Products 1 and 2 sold through the traditional channel, such that 1D  
and 2D  have less self-price sensitivity ib , 1,  2i = . The retailer can also use marketing activities to target 
the consumer’s internal memory and external impression by improving advertising campaigns, sales 
persons’ explanations and product displays, causing 1β  and 2β  to increase. However, (iii) and (iv) of 
Theorem 3.3 show that there are restrictions, when Manufacturer 1 uses marketing activities to increase 
*
( )
N
M Wπ . Actually, the restrictions are reasonable because 
*
( )
N
M Wπ  is increasing in 
*
1
ND . The retailer and 
Manufacturer 1 will not increase their channel loyalty, because 0β  decreases when consumers’ loyalty to a 
15 
 
3.1.3 The identical case  
In identical case, Products 1 and 2 have identical attributes, including the unit production cost ic c= , 
wholesale price iw w= , and deliverable quantity uncertainty [ ,  ]iy y y y= ∈ . In addition, there is an 
identical potential demand ia a=  and an identical demand uncertainty [ ,  ]ix x x x= ∈ . The retailer adds 
an identical service value iv v=  to Products 1 and 2 with the same service cost factor iη η= . 
Manufacturer 1 and the retailer have an identical unit shortage cost it t= , salvage value ,im m=  is s=  
and stock factor iz z=  in their profit functions. Note that this identical case signifies that there is a high 
substitutability between Products 1 and 2. Consumers have identical price sensitivity parameters ib b=  and 
iβ β=  for i = 0, 1, 2. However, Products 1 and 2 are still two differentiable yet substitutable products. 
Using a superscript, ~, for this special case, the profit functions for Manufacturer 1 and the retailer now 
become:  
[ ]
[ ]
0 1 2 0 0
1
( , ,  ) (1 ) ( ) ( )
                           ( ) (1 )
M p p p p c m s t zD
w c m zD
π θ λ λ λ θ κ λ
λ λ
= − + − + − − −
+ − + −
   
         (3.9)  
[ ]{ }
2
0 1 2
1
( , ,  ) ( ) ( ) ( )  ,R i i
i
p p p p w c v s t zDπ θ λ λ θ κ λ
=
= − + + − − −∑           (3.10)  
where iθ θ= , iκ κ=  and iλ λ= , i = 0, 1, 2. Let the expected revenue 0γ γ=  and 1 2τ τ τ= =  in the 
identical case. Assumptions 1 and 2 are still reasonable and prevent an unrealistic phenomenon in this case. 
The next theorem summarizes the equilibrium solutions for the Nash game and the Stackelberg game for the 
identical case. 
Theorem 3.6: In the identical case,  
(i) the equilibrium price for the Nash game is given by 
[ ]*
0 2
( )
,
2 ( )
N b v abp
b b
β β φ σ τ θ θ
θ β θβ
− − − + +
=
− −
  
2 2
* *
1 2 2
( 2 ) ( )(2 2 ) 2 .
2 [2 ( ) ]
N N v v b b ab a bp p
b b
β τ θ φ θ β θ βθ βσ
θ β β
− + − − + + −
= =
− −
   
(ii) The equilibrium price for Scenario 1 of the Stackelberg game is given by 
* 1 * 1
* 1 1 2
0
( 2 ) ( )
,
2
S S
S b a v p pp
b
σ βτ θ β θβ
θ
− + + − + +
=
 

 
2
* 1 * 1
1 2 2
2
2 24 [ ( ) ]
S S ab a b vp p
b b
β τ θ θβ βσ φ
θθ β β
+ + −
= = + −
− −
   
(iii) The equilibrium price for Scenario 2 of the Stackelberg game is given by 
* 2
0 2
( )(2 ) 2
24 ( )
S b v abp
b b
β β φ τ θ θ σ
θθ β β
− − + −
= −
 − − 

 
* 2
* 2 * 2 0
1 2
( )
,
2 ( )
S
S S a bv v b pp p
b
φβ θ β φ θβ
θ β
+ + − − +
= =
−

 
 
where (1 ) ( ) ( )m s c tσ λ λ θ λ κ λ= − + − − − −
 
and  
 [ ]( ) ( ) ( )w c v s tφ λ λ θ κ λ= − + + − − − . 
17 
 
Based on (i), it is found that the decision variables (the retail prices *1
Np  and * 11
Sp ) of the leader can 
exhibit a larger variance than those of the follower due to 2b β> . The retailer has an aggressive strategy on 
the retail prices in the market by increasing or decreasing the retail prices on a larger scale to repel or attract 
consumers. From (ii), the change of the demand *1D  decreases in the change of the retail prices 
*
1p . The 
higher retail prices might earn more revenue for the retailer and offset the lost demand or the lower retail 
prices may attract more consumers. Due to the fact that even * * 10 0 ,
N Sp p≥  the increment of *1p , 
* * 1
1 1
N Sp p−  , 
is greater than * * 10 0
N Sp p−  , the demand of Internet channel increases. From Manufacturer 1’s viewpoint, 
there is a trade-off problem between ( )M Wπ  and ( )M Iπ  when the competition’s structure changes. If the 
retail price * 11
Sp  is set greater than *1
Np , then * ( )
N
M Wπ  may be greater than 
* 1
( )
S
M Wπ  because 
* * 1
1 1 .
N SD D≥   
On the other hand, if the retail price * 11
Sp  is set lower than *1
Np , then * ( )
N
M Iπ  may be less than 
* 1
( )
S
M Iπ  
because * * 10 0 .
N SD D≤  The challenge to Manufacturer 1 is to achieve a balance between them. 
Theorem 3.7: In the identical case,  
(i) * 1 *1 1
S Np p≥   and 
* 1 *
0 0
S Np p≥   if and only if w w′≤ , where w′  is a threshold and 
2 2 2 2
{(2 )(2 ){[ ( ) ( )] }
      2 [ ( ) ]} / [ (3 2 2 )].
( )[ (1 ) ]w b b s t a
v b b b b
b m cβ β λ θ κ λ θ
θ β β λ β β
β β λ′ = + − − − − −
+ − + − +
+ − − −
 
(ii) * 1 *S NR Rπ π≥ . 
(iii) * 1 *S NM Mπ π≥  if and only if { }* 1 *0 0 1( ) max 0,S Np p− ≥ ∆  , or { }* 1 *0 0 1( ) min 0,S Np p− ≤ ∆  , where 
*
1 0
1
( ) 2 ( )Nb pτ β β θ σ
βθ
∆ = − − +   . 
Theorem 3.7 indicates that 0p  and 1p  for Scenario 1 of the Stackelberg game are greater than those 
for the Nash game when w  is less than the threshold w′ . Moreover, given the fixed wholesale price, the 
retailer is always better off as a leader in Scenario 1 of the Stackelberg game. Hence, according to (i) and the 
discussion of Lemma 3.3, an appropriate wholesale price may weaken the damage for Manufacturer 1 in 
Scenario 1. When the competition’s structure changes from the Nash game to Scenario 1 of the Stackelberg 
game, if { }* 1 *0 0 1( ) min 0,  S Np p− ≤ ∆  , then the lost profit in the Internet channel is compensated by the 
wholesale profit for Manufacturer 1. Equally, the lost wholesale profit is offset by the Internet channel profit 
if { }* 1 *0 0 1( ) max 0,  S Np p− ≥ ∆  . Although Manufacturer 1 is a follower, he could control the setting of the 
19 
 
setting an appropriate wholesale price in the contract. Finally, a summary of some cooperative managerial 
strategies, for Manufacturer 1 and the retailer are provided: (1) If the conditions mentioned in (iii) of 
Theorems 3.7 and 3.8 hold, then both of Manufacturer 1 and the retailer can benefit from the Stackelberg 
game. Otherwise, they will avoid the Stackelberg game, since both of them are suffered from being a 
follower. (2) If the condition mentioned in (iii) of Theorems 3.7 or 3.8 does not hold, then the follower will 
be worse off. Therefore, if the leader wants to use the Stackelberg game, the follower may be compensated 
by profits from the leader, or the leader may be compensated by the follower if both players decide to use 
the Nash game. Therefore, Manufacturer 1 and the retailer might not necessarily view being a follower as 
harmful, but rather as a chance to negotiate for their mutual benefit. 
 
3.2 Numerical examples 
The next objective is to further explore the managerial insights using numerical examples. To avoid the 
complex effects of cost parameters, the numerical examples are considered for the identical case. 
Information about the parameter values are referred from existing numerical studies (Hsieh and Wu, 2009; 
Kurata et al., 2007). The parameters are set as follows: ia = 100, ib = 10, iβ = 4, iz = 1, im = 0.5, 
is = 0.5, it =0.5, 6ic = , for i = 0, 1, 2, iw = 9, iv = 3 and iη = 0.5, for i = 1, 2. It is also assumed that 
the random variables ix  and iy  are uniformly distributed over [1 ,  1 ]i ix x− +   and [1 ,  1 ]i iy y− +  , where 
ix  and iy  are determined by specifying the coefficients of variation, 0.35ixcv =  and 0.2iycv = , 
respectively. In practice, the manufacturer and the retailer can collect the demand data by different parameter 
settings, then use the data to estimate the linear demand function through regression analysis (refer to Shy, 
2008, for further discussion). 
 
3.2.1 The effects of ib  and iβ   
The effect of a change in ib  and iβ , i = 0, 1, 2, is examined. Each parameter is varied by ± 20%. 
From Fig. 3.2, it is observed that the effects of 1b  and 2b  are stronger than the effect of 0b , and the effect 
of 2β  is stronger than the effects of 1β  and 0β . Hence, the retailer could develop consumers’ brand 
loyalty for Products 1 and 2, improve the product displays in the traditional channel, and provide a 
comfortable shopping environment for consumers, such that the profit increases. On the other hand, 
Manufacturer 1 could develop consumers’ loyalty for Product 1 sold through the Internet channel such that 
0b  decreases. Finally, it is observed that consumers’ channel loyalty to Product 1 is less important for the 
retailer and Manufacturer 1, because 0β  increases as channel loyalty decreases. Therefore, consumers’ 
brand loyalty is more critical than channel loyalty for both Manufacturer 1 and the retailer. Similar 
phenomena are observed for the Stackelberg game, as shown from Fig. 3.4 to Fig. 3.7. Thus, the marketing 
activities proposed before are still profitable for Manufacturer 1 and the retailer, no matter the structure of 
the competition. 
21 
 
 
Fig. 3.5 Effects of ib  and iβ  on * 1SMπ  
 
Fig. 3.6 Effects of ib  and iβ  on * 2SRπ  
 
 
Fig. 3.7 Effects of ib  and iβ  on * 2SMπ  
 
3.2.2 The effect of a change of the competition structure 
The numerical results for retail prices, demands and profits, for Nash and Stackelberg games, are 
summarized in Table 3.1. Firstly, we focus on the results of the Nash game and Scenario 1 of the Stackelberg 
game. It is observed that 0D  in Scenario 1 of the Stackelberg game is greater than that in the Nash game, 
because the increments of 1p  and 2p  are greater than the increment of 0p . The retailer is better off by 
23 
 
In this portion of graph, an increase in 1v  induces a higher 1D  and a higher 1p  as shown in Figs. 3.9 and 
3.10. As the trend continues, beyond a critical value of 1v , the retailer’s profit decreases with 1v . In the 
example used in this study, this occurs at 1v ≈1.8. When the service value is higher than the critical value, 
there is an immediate sharp decline in 1D , because some consumers cannot afford a high 1p  for Product 1. 
Hence, consumers may purchase Product 1 through the Internet channel or purchase Product 2 through the 
traditional channel. However, the increased 1p  and the rising 2D  cannot compensate for the decrease in 
1D , which causes the retailer’s profit to decrease.  
 
 
Fig. 3.8 Effect of 1v  on profits 
 
 
Fig. 3.9 Effect of 1v  on demands 
 
25 
 
 
Fig. 3.12 Effect of 2v  on demands 
 
 
Fig. 3.13 Effect of 2v  on retail prices 
 
3.2.4 The effects of wholesale prices 1w  and 2w  
So far the wholesale prices are given as fixed in a contract. We now incorporated the wholesale prices 
as decision variables for the manufactures in this subsection. The decision procedure is unfolded in two 
stages. In the first stage, both the manufacturers 1 and 2 set the wholesale prices 1w  and 2w  
simultaneously to maximize their respective profits. Then, in the second stage, the retail prices 0p , 1p  and 
2p  are set in one of three scenarios discussed before. Similar decision procedures were adopted in Kumar 
and Ruan (2006) and Dumrongsiri et al. (2008). The aim in this subsection is to observe that if the results 
and phenomena revealed in Section 2 still exist. 
It is assumed that the wholesale prices 1w  and 2w  are fixed in this study. We further relax this 
assumption in order to check the robustness of the results revealed in Section 2. Hence, a numerical 
experiment consisting of parameter combinations is conducted. In choosing the parameter values, we 
consider three levels (low, medium and high levels) of a parameter over a reasonable range and control the 
relationship 2b β>  as given in assumption. The combinations yield 4374 instances described in Table 3.2. 
The effects of salvage cost and shortage cost are omitted and the rest of parameters are set as the given 
example in Section 3. Except 78 instances are eliminated where the corresponding demands or retail prices 
violate the assumptions of our proposed model, we focus on 4296 effective instances to analyze the 
27 
 
4. An Optimal Brand Strategy and Channel Structure 
 In this section, we will consider the effect of brand competition and/or channel competition on the 
profits of manufacturers and retailers in four different scenario. According to the results, the motivation of 
developing a store brand or an Internet channel is discussed.  
 
4.1 The evolutions of store brand and Internet channel model 
This study considers pricing policies in four different supply chain scenarios as shown in Fig. 4.1. In 
Scenario A, a manufacturer sells a NB product only through a retailer, i.e., a traditional channel, and the 
retailer does not introduce a substitutable product with SB. Scenario B represents a supply chain in which a 
manufacturer sells a NB product only through a retailer and the retailer not only sells the NB product but 
also sells a homogeneous product with SB simultaneously. In Scenario C, a manufacturer sells a NB product 
to a retailer, as well as sells the same NB product to consumers through an Internet channel directly. 
Scenario BC represents a supply chain with a brand competition between NB and SB and a channel conflict 
between the traditional channel and the Internet channel. 
Manufacturer
(NB)
Traditional 
channel
Manufacturer
(NB)
Internet 
channel
Traditional 
channel
Manufacturer
(NB)
Traditional 
channel
Scenario A
Scenario C
Scenario B
Scenario BC
Manufacturer
(SB)
Manufacturer
(NB)
Internet 
channel
Manufacturer
(SB)
Traditional 
channel
Consumersw 1p
w
0p
1p
Consumers
0p
1p
Consumers
0p
2p
1p
Consumers
w w
 
Fig. 4.1 Supply chain structure 
Both the manufacturer and the retailer make their own decisions to maximize their respective profits. 
The sequence of the decision process is that the manufacturer, as the Stackelberg game leader, determines 
w  of the NB product and 0p  of the Internet channel if the manufacturer introduces an Internet channel. In 
response to the decisions of the manufacturer, the retailer sets an optimal 1p  of the NB product and a 2p  
of the SB product if the retailer introduces a SB product. Our model is different from Mills (1995) and Raju 
et al. (1998), the retail price 2p  is not assumed to be lower than the retail prices 1p  and 0p . The game 
structure is similar to that discussed by Kumar (2006) and is illustrated in Fig. 4.2.  
 
29 
 
[ ]1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0min{ , } = ( )M m mE D w D x D p D c D w D p cπ θ= + − + −         (4.2)  
[ ]1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2min{ , }[ ( )] ( ) min{ , }[ ( )]R r rE D x D p c v D w c D x D p c v D cπ = − − + + − −  
{ } { }1 1 2 2  [ ( )]  [ ( )]r rD p c v w c D p c v cθ θ= − − − + − −             (4.3)  
M Rπ π π= +                                          (4.4)  
where [ ]min{ ,1}E xθ = . Note that θ ,  with 0 1θ≤ ≤ , can be interpreted as the average sales volume per 
unit order quantity. The parameters mc  and rc  denote the operational costs in the Internet channel and the 
traditional channel, respectively. Without loss of generality, the production cost is briefly normalized to 
zero.  
Finally, some constrains are added in this model. Channel prices must exceed marginal costs such that 
1 0rp w c≥ ≥ ≥ , 2 0rp c≥ ≥ , 0 0mp c≥ ≥ . In order to make a comparison among channel structures and 
guarantee the participation of the manufacturer and the retailer, the expected unit margin and demand must 
be nonnegative. The subscripts (A), (B), (C) and (BC) are used to denote the values for Scenarios A, B, C 
and BC, respectively. Four scenarios are analyzed and compared in the following subsections. Based on the 
results, optimal policy of brand strategy and market structure policies are derived for the manufacturer and 
the retailer. 
 
4.1.1 A benchmark case: Scenario A 
In Scenario A, the manufacturer sells a NB product only through the retailer and a SB product is not 
introduced, i.e., 0 2 0D D= = . Maximization of the consumer’s utility function is shown as in Eq. (4.1), and 
the demand of the NB product is shown as follows:  
1( ) 1 1AD p vα= − + .                (4.5) 
Given any w , the retailer’s best response function to maximize the profit shown as Eq. (4.3) is  
1
1( )
[ ( )]
( )
2
r
A
v c v c wp w θ α
θ
+ + + +
= .          (4.6) 
Substituting Eq. (4.6) into Eq. (4.2), the manufacturer’s wholesale price for profit-maximizing is 
 * 1( )
[ ( )]
2
r
A
v c v cw θ α + − −= .            (4.7) 
The optimal wholesale price *( )Aw  leads to the optimal retail price as follows: 
* 1
1( )
[3( ) ( )]
4
r
A
v c v cp θ α
θ
+ + +
= .             (4.8) 
Then, substituting Eqs. (4.7) and (4.8) into Eq. (4.5), the optimal demand of the NB product in Scenario A is 
* 1
1( )
[ ( )]
4
r
A
v c v cD θ α
θ
+ − −
= .             (4.9) 
 
31 
 
relative brand power of SB over NB sold in the traditional channel. The parameters BΩ  is defined as 
B
B
A
Ω = . 
In view of management, if BΩ  is greater than 1, then SB is superior to NB, and vice versa. The retailer 
could increase the value of 2α  by advertising SB and expanding the market of SB, to improve the brand 
power of SB. 
In Scenario B, several questions arise, such as whether the retailer would be better off introducing SB 
or not and whether or not the manufacturer in necessarily damaged by brand competition. Comparing the 
corresponding wholesale price, retail price and profits in Scenarios A and B, the results are shown in the 
following theorem.  
Theorem 4.1: The wholesale prices, retail prices, demands and profits in Scenarios A and B are stated as 
follows: 
(i) * *( ) ( )B Aw w≤ ; 
* *
1( ) 1( )B Ap p≤ ; 
* *
1( ) 1( )A BD D≤  if and only if B blΩ ≤ ,  
(ii) for the manufacturer, Scenario A outperforms Scenario B; while for the retailer,  Scenario B 
outperforms Scenario A. 
Theorem 4.1 shows that if a new brand is introduced by the retailer, then there is downward pressure on 
the wholesale price and the retail price. With a brand entry of SB, customers and the retailer benefit when 
the NB product has a lower retail price and a lower wholesale price. This result consists with Mills (1995) 
and Narasimhan and Wilcox (1998). Amrouche and Yan (2012) showed that the higher is the SB’s potential 
demand, the more the retailer is able to get a lower wholesale price. In our model, we also observe the same 
property. The value of 2α  increases in the potential demand of the SB product, while decreases in the 
wholesale price *( )Bw . Moreover, the potential demand of the SB product, the more the retailer is able to get 
better deal of wholesale price. When the SB product is inferior to the NB product and the relative brand 
power is less than the consumer’s brand substitutability, the NB market penetration is increased in Scenario 
B. This is due to the additional customers who did not buy NB before. Introducing the SB product causes the 
retailer to have a higher expected profit, while the manufacturer turns out a lower expected profit. Contrary 
to Amrouche and Yan (2012) who showed that the SB is not always harmful for the manufacturer, our result 
shows that introducing the SB product causes the retailer to have a higher expected profit, while the 
manufacturer turns out a lower expected profit. This could be due to the reduction in the wholesale profit 
and the decreased demand of the NB product. 
Since the manufacturer has a disadvantage in Scenario B as compared to Scenario A, a question arises: 
is there any strategy which could be adopted such that both the manufacturer and the retailer are better off in 
Scenario B than they are in Scenario A? Theorem 4.2 proposes that there is a cooperative niche market 
between the manufacturer and the retailer.  
Theorem 4.2: The expected total profit in Scenario B is greater than or equal to that in Scenario A.  
Based on Theorem 4.2, both the manufacturer and the retailer could benefit in Scenario B. For instance, 
if the retailer relies on the manufacturer’s NB product, the manufacturer may be compensated by side profits 
from the retailer; otherwise, the manufacturer may abandon any attempt to distribute the NB product and 
33 
 
If CΩ  is greater than 1, then the Internet channel is superior to the traditional channel, and vice versa. The 
channel power of the Internet channel is increasing in 0α  and decreasing in mc . Therefore, the channel 
power of the Internet channel could be advanced by expending potential consumers who prefer to shop in 
the Internet channel and reducing the operational cost in the Internet channel.  
Theorem 4.3: The wholesale prices, retail prices, demands and profits as compared with Scenarios A and C 
are stated as follows: 
(i) * *( ) ( )C Aw w= ; 
* *
1( ) 1( )C Ap p≤ ; 
* *
1( ) 1( )A CD D≤  if and only if  C clΩ ≤ , 
(ii) for the manufacturer, Scenario C outperforms Scenario A; while for the retailer, Scenario A outperforms 
Scenario C. 
Theorem 4.3 shows that the manufacturer will adopt the same wholesale price strategy as in Scenario C. 
The entry of the internet channel will not cause the manufacturer to reduce the wholesale price. Hence, the 
retailer will not be compensated by getting a better deal of the wholesale price. This result is different from 
Kumar and Ruan (2006) who showed that the manufacturer may reduce the wholesale price to offset the loss 
of the retailer’s profit. The entry of an Internet channel creates a downward press on the retail price of the 
NB product sold in the traditional channel. When the Internet channel power is inferior to the traditional 
channel and the relative channel power is less than the consumer’s channel substitutability, the demand of 
the NB sold through the traditional channel is greater than that in Scenario A because the NB market is 
penetrated by the Internet channel. However, the lower margins of the NB product for the retailer are less 
than the offset resulting from increased sales in the traditional channel. Opening the Internet channel not 
only induces the decrease in retail price and results in higher NB demand in the traditional channel, but also 
generates more profits for the manufacturer.  
Theorem 4.4: The expected total profit in Scenario C is greater than or equal to that in Scenario A. 
Theorem 4.4 shows that although the entry of Internet channel reduces the retailer’s profit in Scenario 
C, it also creates more profits in the supply chain system. For instance, if the manufacturer relies on the 
retailer’s traditional channel to sell the NB product, it is worthwhile to compensate the retailer through side 
profits from the manufacturer, to achieve a win-win situation in Scenario C; otherwise, the manufacturer 
may suffer more losses as the retailer no longer order the NB product from the manufacturer. 
According to Sections 4.2 and 4.3, extending a SB product in the traditional channel and introducing an 
Internet channel are advantageous for the retailer and the manufacturer, respectively. However, the 
managerial insights of both the effect of extending the SB product in Scenario C and the effect of opening an 
Internet channel in Scenario B are worthy of further investigation. In the next section, this study discusses 
and analyzes the simultaneous existence of brand and channel competition in a supply chain.  
 
4.1.4 The model of brand and channel competition: Scenario BC 
In Scenario BC, the retailer not only sells a NB product but also introduces a SB product in the 
traditional channel. On the other hand, the manufacturer distributes the NB product to the traditional channel 
and the Internet channel. Hence, there is both brand and channel competition in the supply chain. Using the 
same approach, the demand functions for the NB product sold through the Internet and traditional channels 
and the SB product sold through the traditional channel are shown as follows: 
35 
 
hand, the retailer not only faces a lesser margin from the NB product but also faces the possibility that 
consumers may shift from the traditional channel to the Internet channel or from the NB product to the SB 
product. We show a similar result in (i) of Theorems 4.1 and 4.3: the demand of the NB product sold 
through the traditional channel increases when the relative channel/brand powers are less than the 
consumer’s channel/brand substitutability. The most interesting result is that, under the retail price-war, the 
Internet channel’s entry increases the demand for the SB product. Moreover, the demand for the NB product 
sold through the Internet channel is not affected by the entry of the SB product. Hence, the retailer and the 
manufacturer may view the Internet channel as a means to stimulate the market or to resist the SB’s entry, 
respectively. To render tractable results, three special cases are considered in the following subsections. 
Case 1: Policy analysis when a SB product is completely segmented  
This case considers a SB product which is completely segmented so that no interaction exists between 
the NB product and the SB product (i.e., 0bl = ). This case is interesting because consumers who prefer to 
purchase the NB product are not familiar with the SB product in the beginning as the retailer introduces a 
SB product. Furthermore, this case is also used to illustrate the fact that consumers are brand loyal to the NB 
or SB, although the SB product contains the same functions and characteristics as the NB product. 
Furthermore, the low is bl , the low is the cross-price sensitivity between the NB product and the SB product. 
Low cross-price sensitivity reflects that SB targets different segments from those targeted by NB, e.g., the 
A&P Saving Plus Line and Sam’s choice from Wal-Mart (Amrouche and Yan, 2012; Amrouche and 
Zaccour, 2009). The optimal policies for the manufacturer and the retailer have a relationship of the 
following ordering. 
Theorem 4.6: The wholesale prices, retail prices and demands as compared with Scenarios B, C and BC 
with 0bl =  are stated as follows: 
(i) * * * * * * * * * * *( ) ( ) ( ) 1( ) 1( ) 1( ) 1( ) 2( ) 2( ) 0( ) 0( );  ;  ;  B C BC A B C BC BC B BC Cw w w p p p p p p p p= = = ≥ = = = , 
(ii) * * * * * * * *1( ) 1( ) 1( ) 1( ) 0( ) 0( ) 2( ) 2( );  ;  ;  A B C BC C BC B BCD D D D D D D D= = = = , 
(iii) * * * * * *( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( );  M B M BC M C R C R BC R Bπ π π π π π≤ = ≤ = .  
Because consumers are brand loyal to the NB or SB, the sales of the NB product in the traditional 
channel has not been threatened with the entry of the SB product. The optimal retail price of the NB and the 
wholesale price in Scenarios B and BC are the same as those in Scenarios A and C, respectively. 
Consequently, the manufacturer will not encounter competition between the NB and SB. However, the total 
market penetration increases even through the consumers will not shift from the NB to SB. To gain more 
profit, it is worthwhile for the retailer to introduce a SB product. 
Case 2: Policy analysis when an Internet channel is completely segmented 
This case demonstrates that the Internet channel is completely segmented in the supply chain (i.e., 
0cl = ). It is reported that the key restriction to Internet channel is suspicion of Internet channel due to the 
accessibility, security and lack of prior examination of physical products before purchase (Yalabik et al., 
2005). In addition to the product’s category, consumers’ age is an important factor in the performance of the 
Internet, such as consumers who are older are more likely to shop at traditional channel (Girard et al., 2003). 
37 
 
channel regardless of whether an Internet channel is opened by the manufacturer or not. Furthermore, the 
Internet channel entry benefits the manufacturer as the retailer develops a SB product in the supply chain. To 
maximize the profits of the manufacturer and the retailer, the optimal policy of brand strategy and market 
structure are shown in the following corollary.   
Corollary 4.1: An equilibrium solution of branding strategy and market structure exists under Cases 1, 2, 
and 3. That is, the manufacturer introduces an Internet channel to sell a NB product, and the retailer then 
introduces a SB product in the traditional channel.  
This result concurs with Huang et al. (2009) but from an extent perspective with asymmetric 
parameters including base demands, unit operational costs in the traditional channel and the Internet channel, 
etc. 
 
4.2 Numerical examples 
 The objective of this section is to draw managerial insights by further studying the effects of varying 
parameters on the profits of the manufacturer and the retailer in the proposed scenarios. To avoid the 
complex effects of parameters, the numerical examples are initially set in a symmetric case. In each 
subsection, by varying one parameter while keeping the others constant, figures are drawn and interpreted. 
Here, Section 4.1 focuses on the effects of the relative brand power and the relative channel power on the 
profits of the manufacturer and the retailer. Section 4.2 reveals the effects of the unit operational cost of the 
Internet channel and the retailer’s service value on the profits. Information about the parameter values are 
referred from existing numerical studies (Hsieh and Wu, 2009; Cai, 2010). 
 
4.2.1 Effects of the relative brand and channel powers 
In this section, the parameters are set as follows: 1θ = , 0.45b cl l= = , and BΩ  and CΩ  belong to 
[0.5,1.5] . We further study the effect of a change in BΩ  and CΩ  on the profits of the manufacturer and 
the retailer. The results are shown in Fig. 4.3. First, it is observed that there are three zones, I, II, and III, 
with different orders of profits for the manufacturer and the retailer. If ( BΩ , CΩ ) belongs to zone II, the 
manufacturer and the retailer can gain more profit under mixed brand and channel competition. Second, in 
zone I, where the Internet channel is almost equal or superior to the traditional channel and the SB product 
brand power is inferior to the NB product brand power, mixed brand and channel competition benefits the 
manufacturer, while it damages the retailer. In other words, the profit earned by selling the SB product does 
not compensate for the dramatic damage resulting from the opening of the Internet channel. Finally, in zone 
III, where the Internet channel power is inferior to the traditional channel power, mixed brand and channel 
competition benefits the retailer, while it damages the manufacturer. The Internet channel of the 
manufacturer does not eliminate the threat of SB entry, even if the SB’s brand power is not superior to the 
NB’s brand power. Based on the above results, to improve the profits, the manufacturer and the retailer 
should attempt some marketing actives until the point at which the relative channel and brand powers belong 
to zone II, such as cost reduction, advertising of the SB product, improving the security of the Internet 
channel, etc.  
39 
 
maximizes the retailer’s profit occurs at 5v ≈ . Owing to the SB’s entry, it also goes with our intuition that 
the increase of service value has a greater impact on the retailer’s profit in Scenarios B and BC than those in 
Scenarios A and C. Interestingly, when the service value increases, the variation of the manufacturer’s profit 
in Scenario BC is less than that in Scenarios A, B and C. Hence, the Internet channel not only benefits the 
manufacturer but also alleviates the effect of service value increases with the entry of the SB product. 
Moreover, from Fig. 4.5(b), the retailer’s profit is damaged by the Internet channel opening, i.e., the point Q 
reduces to the point Q' as 2v ≈ , and the point R reduces to the point R' as 7.5v ≈ . The retailer may adopt 
to increase or decrease the value of service added to the product. Because the service value increases, the 
demand could attract more consumers who care about high service value such that the profit of the retailer is 
improved, i.e., from the point Q' to the point Q''. On the other hand, the retailer may consider lowering the 
service value such that the service cost decreases. In this case, the margin and the profit can increase, i.e., 
from the point R' to the point R''. Hence, adjusting the service value is a useful strategy for the retailer. 
 
 
(a) the manufacturer 
 
(b) the retailer 
Fig. 4.5. The effect of v  on Mπ  and Rπ  
 
41 
 
J M Rπ π π= + ,                    (5.3)
 
where 
1
1
( ) ( )
x
x
xf x dx f x dxθ = +∫ ∫  and 
1
1
( ) ( )
x
x
f x dx xf x dxκ = +∫ ∫ .  
Note that, (1 )θ−  and ( 1)κ −  are represent the expected overages volume and the expected shortage 
volume per unit order quantity. 
  
5.1.1 The wholesale price contract 
This section focuses on optimal pricing strategies without coordination. Without coordination, both the 
manufacturer and retailer make their own decisions which maximize their respective profits. In Scenario A, 
the retailer’s profit-maximizing best response functions 1 ( )p w  is obtained by setting 1/R pπ∂ ∂  equal to 
zero to solve 1p . Substituting 1 ( )p w  in Eq. (5.1), the manufacturer’s profit-maximizing wholesale price 
w  is derived by setting /M wπ∂ ∂  equal to zero to find w . Following a similar procedure, the optimal 
pricing strategies and optimal profits for the manufacturer and the retailer in Scenarios A, B, and C can be 
derived and summarized in Table 5.2.  
Comparing the corresponding profits in Scenarios A, B and C, the results are shown in the following 
lemma.  
Table 5.2 Optimal solutions in Scenarios A, B and C. 
 Scenario A  Scenario B  Scenario C 
*w  '
2
A   ' '
2
bA l B−   '
2
A  
*
1p  1 1 1
[3( ) ( ) ]
4
v c v sθ α γ
θ
+ + + +   1 1 1
[3( ) ( ) ] '
4
bv c v s l Bθ α γ
θ
+ + + + −   1 1 1
[3( ) ( ) ] '
4
cv c v s l Cθ α γ
θ
+ + + + −  
*
2p  --  2 2 2
[ ( ) ]
2
v c v sθ α γ
θ
+ + + +   -- 
*
0p  --  --  0 0 0
[ ]
2
sθ α γ
θ
+ +  
*
Rπ  
2'
16
A
θ
  
2 2 2 2
2
' 2 ' ' 3 ' 4 '
16 (1 )
b b
b
A l A B l B B
lθ
− − +
−
  
2
2
( ' ')
16 (1 )
c
c
A l C
lθ
−
−
 
*
Mπ  
2'
8
A
θ
  
2
2
( ' ')
8 (1 )
b
b
A l B
lθ
−
−
  
2 2 2 2
2
' 2 ' ' ' 2 '
8 (1 )
c c
c
A l A B l C C
lθ
− − +
−
 
Note: 1 1 1' [ ( )]A v s c vθ α γ= + − − − , 2 2 2' [ ( )]B v s c vθ α γ= + − − − , [ ]0 0 0'C sθ α γ= − − , 
1 1 1 1pm rt c c s tγ κ= + + − − , 2 2 2 2pr rt c c s tγ κ= + + − − , 0 0 0 0pm mt c c s tγ κ= + + − − . 
 
Lemma 5.1: the scenario preferences of the manufacturer and the retailer are given as follows: 
(i) The retailer: Scenario BScenario AScenario C. 
(ii) The manufacturer: Scenario CScenario AScenario B. 
Lemma 5.1 indicates that the retailer and the manufacturer are better off by adding a SB product and an 
Internet channel, respectively. This is intuitive because the SB product and the Internet channel become 
more monopolistic when the consumer’s brand and channel substitutability decrease. Hence, the retailer and 
the manufacturer not only gain additional profits from selling the SB product and adding the Internet 
43 
 
Based on the similar analysis procedure, the optimal solutions in the RSA, RSB and RSC models can be 
derived and summarized in Table 5.3: 
 
Table 5.3 The optimal solutions in the RSA, RSB and RSC models. 
Model *1RSp  *2RSp  *0RSp  *1RSD  *2RSD  *0RSD  
RSA '
2
A
θ
 -- -- '
2
A
θ
 -- -- 
RSB '
2
A
θ
 '
2
B
θ
 -- 2
( ' ')
2 (1 )
b
b
A l B
lθ
−
−
 2
( ' ')
2 (1 )
b
b
B l A
lθ
−
−
 -- 
RSC '
2
A
θ
 -- '
2
C
θ
 2
( ' ')
2 (1 )
c
c
A l C
lθ
−
−
 -- 2
( ' ')
2 (1 )
c
c
C l A
lθ
−
−
 
 
Lemma 5.2: The RS contract causes the retailer to have a lower retail price and a higher demand of the NB 
product.  
This is intuitive due to a lower wholesale price causes the retailer to set a lower retail price; the lower 
retail price causes the consumers to purchase NB products more. It must be noted that not all revenue 
sharing rate are acceptable, the manufacturer or the retailer might not be willing to accept less profit in the 
RS contract than in the non-cooperative supply chain.  
A revenue sharing rate is called acceptable if the profits of the manufacturer and the retailer are greater 
than the ideal profit point which is denoted ( 0Mπ ,
0
Rπ ). For example, in the RSA model, 
0 *
( )M M Aπ π=  and 
0 *
( )R R Aπ π= . Next lemma shows that the RS contract is mutually beneficial for the manufacturer and the 
retailer as long as the revenue sharing ratio belongs to a reasonable region in each model.  
Lemma 5.3: The manufacturer and the retailer benefit in the RS contract as long as 
(i) In the RSA model: 1 3
2 4
δ< < , 
(ii) In the RSB model: 1 3(1 )
2 4
b B b Bl lδ
− Ω − Ω
< < , 
(iii)In the RSC model: 1 3
2 4
c C c Cl lδ+ Ω + Ω< < . 
The interval of δ  defined in Lemma 3 is referred to as Pareto zone in each scenario. If the revenue 
sharing ratio is too low, the manufacturer will not participate in this RS contact. However, if the revenue 
sharing rate is too high, the RS contract hurts the retailer. When the revenue sharing rate belongs to the RS 
contract Pareto zone, both the manufacturer and retailer will participate and not deviate from the cooperation. 
This observation concurs with Cai (2010) but from an extended supply chain structure and a different RS 
contract setting. In addition, this result shows that the lower and upper bounds of Pareto zone in the RSB 
model are less than those in the RSA model. It is reasonable because the retailer is beneficial by developing 
an SB product, but the manufacturer is not. Although the RS contract could recover the loss of the 
manufacturer’s profit, the retailer could not share too high ratio so that the profit is damaged. On the 
45 
 
channel are alleviated. However, the range of Pareto efficient zone of restraining SB is reduced as long as 
the brand power of SB increases; the range of Pareto efficient zone of restraining Internet channel is reduced 
as long as the channel power of Internet channel increases. Hence, it is more difficult to prevent the entry of 
the SB product and the opening of the Internet channel as SB product and Internet channel are powerful. 
Fig. 5.2 summarizes the results of Theorem 5.1 and shows that a reasonable revenue sharing ratio could 
affect the decisions of the manufacturer and retailer. The Pareto zone is divided into three zones. As the 
revenue sharing rate belongs to zone I and zone III, the RS contract could mitigate the threats of the SB 
product and the Internet channel for the manufacturer and the retailer, respectively. Moreover, the RS 
contract may alleviate these threats simultaneously as long as the revenue sharing rate belongs to zone II. 
However, zone II may not exist because the relative brand power or the relative channel power increases 
such that ( ) ( )A B A Cδ δ≤ . 
 
Pareto efficient zone of restraining SB
Pareto efficient zone of restraining Internet channel
1/ 2 3 / 4( )A Cδ ( )A Bδ
I II III
δ
 
Fig. 5.2 Pareto efficient zones of restraining SB and Internet channel in Scenario A 
 
5.1.4 The optimal RS contract ratio in Scenario A 
In this study, a Nash bargaining model is used to derive the optimal revenue sharing ratio and divide the 
increased profit between the manufacturer and the retailer. Similar bargaining models have been used in 
various research including quantity discounts and cooperative advertising (Yan et al., 2010). The Nash 
bargaining model of the RS ratio depends on the ideal profit point ( 0Mπ ,
0
Rπ ) and is solved the following 
maximization problem: 
0 0 1
( ) ( )
0
( )
0
( )
max  ( ) ( )
s.t.    
        
RS RS
m r M A M R A R
RS
M A M
RS
R A R
u u β β
δ
π π π π
π π
π π
−= − −
≥
≥
       (5.8) 
where β  is the bargaining power for the manufacturer; 1 β−  is the bargaining power for the retailer. For 
instance, in RSA-B, 0 ( ) ( )max( , )M M A M Bπ π π=  and 
0
( ) ( )max( , )R R A R Bπ π π= . The corresponding optimal RS 
ratios *Aδ , 
*
( )A Bδ  and 
*
( )A Cδ  in the RSA, RSA-B, and RSA-C models are derived by Eq. (5.8) and 
summarized as follows, respectively: 
* 2
4A
βδ += , 
47 
 
strategy, an extensive numerical study is presented in this section. Information on the parameter values are 
referred to the existing numerical studies (Hsieh and Wu, 2009; Kurata et al., 2007). The parameters are set 
as follows: 50ia = , 0.5is = , 0.5it = , for i = 0, 1, 2, 0.45b cl l= = , 4pm prc c= = , 2m rc c= = , 4v = , 
η = 0.1 and 0.5β = . The random variable x  is assumed to be uniformly distributed over [1 ,  1 ]x x− +  , 
where x  is determined by specifying the coefficients of variation 0.35xcv = . In this parameter setting, the 
relative brand power BΩ  equals to 1 and the relative channel power CΩ  equals to 0.93. Table 5.4 shows 
that the effects of the SB product, Internet channel and RS contract. The retailer gains from lower wholesale 
price in Scenario B than that in Scenarios A and C; consumers could purchase the products at lower retail 
prices when the SB product and the Internet channel are introduced. 
 
Table 5.4 Numerical result of different scenarios  
 
Scenario 
A B C RSA RSB RSC 
w  18.22 10.02 18.22 4.00 4.00 4.00 
0p  -- -- 28.74 -- -- 21.26 
1p  42.57 37.43 37.78 22.86 22.86 22.86 
2p  -- 31.14 -- -- 22.86 -- 
0D  -- -- 17.51 -- -- 13.76 
1D  11.43 7.88 8.34 22.86 15.77 16.67 
2D  -- 19.31 -- -- 15.77 -- 
Mπ  208.27 79.00 448.58 260.34 98.74 470.66 
Rπ  104.13 456.03 44.15 156.20 475.79 66.23 
  
Moreover, introducing the SB product causes the retailer to have a higher expected profit, while the 
manufacturer turns out a lower expected profit due to the reduction in the wholesale profit and the decreased 
demand of the NB product. On the other hand, engaging an Internet channel generates more profits for the 
manufacturer, while the Internet channel is adverse to the retailer. Table 5.4 also shows that the profits of the 
manufacturer and the retailer in the RSA, RSB and RSC model are superior to those of Scenarios A, B and C, 
respectively. 
Next, we check if the RS contract could mitigate the brand or channel competition for the NB 
manufacturer and retailer. We consider three level of the consumer’s brand and channel substitutability: 
, 0.05,  0.25,  0.45b cl l =  and the relative brand power BΩ  and the relative channel power CΩ  belong to 
[0.4,0.7] . In Section 3, we show that the RS contract mitigates the brand competition between the retailer 
and the manufacturer as long as δ  belongs to ( )[1/ 2, ]A Bδ  called Pareto efficient zone of restraining SB. 
On the other hand, the channel competition is alleviated through the RS contract as long as δ  belongs to 
( )[ ,3 / 4]A Cδ  called Pareto efficient zone of restraining Internet channel. Figs. 5.3 and 5.4 present striking 
49 
 
Then we consider the other parameter setting: 0 2 30α α= =  and the remaining parameters are set as 
before. Then, we have 0.56BΩ =  and 0.49CΩ =  as 0.45cl =   which are less than the critical values of 
BΩ  and CΩ  as shown in the previous example. Hence, adopting the RSA-B and RSA-C contracts are used 
in place of developing SB product and Internet channel for the retailer and the NB manufacturer. The 
optimal wholesale and retail prices, demands, and the profit of the manufacturer and the retailer with respect 
to different scenarios are shown in Table 5.5. The results show that the retailer and the manufacturer not only 
prevent the brand and channel competition in supply chain but also gain more profit in the RSA-B and 
RSA-C contracts than that in Scenarios B and C. The findings of the study would suggest that the manager 
of NB manufacturers or retailers could cooperate with each other through the RSA-B and RSA-C contracts 
as the relative powers of brand and Internet channel are less than critical values. 
 
Table 5.5 Numerical result of different Scenarios ( 0 2 30α α= = ) 
 
 Scenario 
A B C RSA RSA-B RSA-C 
w  18.21 13.60 18.21 4 4 4 
0p  -- -- 18.73 -- -- -- 
1p  42.56 39.67 40.03 22.86 22.86 22.86 
2p  -- 21.13 -- -- -- -- 
0D  -- -- 6.24 -- -- -- 
1D  11.43 10.70 11.16 22.86 22.86 22.86 
2D  -- 8.04 -- -- -- -- 
Mπ  208.26 145.66 259.28 260.33 210.06 285.84 
Rπ  104.13 204.67 79.10 156.20 206.47 130.69 
Jπ  412.39 350.33 338.38 416.53 416.53 416.53 
 
51 
 
References 
Amrouche, N., & Yan, R. (2012). Implementing online store for national brand competing against private 
label, Journal of Business Research, 65, 325-332. 
Amrouche, N., & Zaccour, G. (2009). A shelf-space-dependent wholesale price when manufacturer and 
retailer brands compete, OR Spectrum, 31, 361-383. 
Ba, S., & Pavlou, P.A. (2002). Evidence of the effect of trust building technology in electronic markets: 
price premiums and buyer behavior, MIS Quarterly, 26, 243-268. 
Ba, S., Stallaert, J., & Zhang, Z. (2007). Price competition in e-tailing under service and recognition 
differentiation, Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, 6, 322-331. 
Bakos, Y., & Brynjolfsson, E. (2000). Bundling and competition on the internet, Marketing Science, 19, 
63-82. 
Bernstein, F., & Federgruen, A. (2004). Comparative statics, strategic complements and substitutes in 
oligopolies. Journal of Mathematical Economics, 40, 713-746.  
Bertrand J. (1883). Theorie Mathematique de la Richesse Sociale. Journal des Savants 499-509. 
Best Buy (2013). Best Buy ends ‘showrooming’ with low price guarantee. 
http://pr.bby.com/best-buy-ends-showrooming-with-low-price-guarantee/. 
Bolton, R.N., Shankar, V., & Montoya, D.Y. (2010). Recent trends and emerging practices in retailer pricing. 
In: M. Krafft, & M.K. Mantrala (Eds.), Retailing in the 21stcentury: Current and Future Trends (pp. 
245-359). Berlin: Springer.  
Bucklin, R.E., & Lattin, J.M. (1991). A two-state model of purchase incidence and brand choice. Marketing 
Science, 10, 24-39.  
Cachon, G.P. (2003). Supply chain coordination with contracts. In: de Kok, A. G., Graves, S. C. (Eds.), 
Handbooks in Operations Research and Management Science (pp. 229-340). Boston: Elsevier. 
Cachon, G.P., & Lariviere, M.A. (2005). Supply chain coordination with revenue-sharing contracts: strengths 
and limitations. Management Science, 51, 30-44. 
Cachon, G.P., & Zipkin, P.H. (1999). Competitive and cooperative inventory policies in a two-stage supply 
chain. Management Science, 45, 936-953. 
Cachon, G.P., & Netessine, S. (2004). Game theory in supply chain analysis. In: D. Simch-Levi, S. D. Wu, & 
M. Shen (Eds.), Handbook of Quantitative Supply Chain Analysis: Modeling in the e-business era 
(pp.13-65). Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers. 
Cai, G. (2010). Channel selection and coordination in dual-channel supply chains. Journal of Retailing, 86, 
22-36. 
Cai, G., Zhang, Z.G., & Zhang, M. (2009). Game theoretical perspectives on dual-channel supply chain 
competition with price discounts and pricing schemes. International Journal of Production Economics, 
117, 80-96. 
Caldentey, R., & Wein, L.M. (2003). Analysis of a decentralized production- inventory system. 
Manufacturing and Service Operations Management, 5, 1-17. 
Casey, W., & Jeff, M. (2012). Seven ways businesses and communities can fight "Showrooming". 
http://www.amiba.net/news/showrooming.  
Cattani, K., Gilland, W., Heese, H.S., & Swaminathan, J. (2006). Boiling frogs: pricing strategies for a 
53 
 
European Journal of Operational Research, 205, 113-126.  
Huang, J., Liu, J. & Luo, S. (2009). Strategic interactions between manufacturer’s direct selling and 
retailer’s store brand introduction decisions in dual-channel supply chain, in International Conference on 
Management of e-Commerce and e-Government (Nanchang, China), 331-334. 
Huang, W., & Swaminathan, J.M. (2009). Introduction of a second channel: implications for pricing and 
profits. European Journal of Operational Research, 194, 258-279.  
Huang, Z.M., & Li, S.X. (2001). Co-op advertising models in manufacturer–retailer supply chains: A game 
theory approach. European Journal of Operational Research, 135, 572-544. 
Huang, Z.M., Li, S.X., & Mahajan, V. (2002). An analysis of manufacturer-retailer supply chain 
coordination in cooperative advertising. Decision Sciences, 33, 469-494. 
Ingene, C.A. & Parry, M.E. (2004). Mathematical models of distribution channels. New York: Kluwer 
Academic Publishers. 
John, R.Q. (2012). Should you 'showroom' -- shop in stores, buy online -- your next 
gadget?http://www.foxnews.com/tech/2012/04/18/ethics-showrooming-and-what-to-do-about-it/.  
Keenan, F., & Ante, S.E. (2002). The new teamwork. Business Week, 12-16 (Feb. 18). 
Kumar, N., & Ruan, R. (2006). On manufacturers complementing the traditional retail channel with a direct 
online channel. Quantitative Marketing and Economics, 4, 289-323.  
Kurata, H., Yao, D.Q., & Liu, J.J. (2007). Pricing policies under direct vs. indirect channel competition and 
national vs. store brand competition. European Journal of Operational Research, 180, 262-281.  
Lakshman, K., & Raj, S.P. (1991). An empirical analysis of the relationship between brand loyalty and 
consumer price elasticity. Marketing Science, 10, 172-183. 
Lau, A.H.L., Lau, H.S., & Wang, J.C. (2007). Pricing and volume discounting for a dominant retailer with 
uncertain manufacturing cost information. European Journal of Operational Research, 183, 848-870. 
Leng, M., & Parlar, M. (2005). Game theoretic applications in supply chain management: A review. INFOR, 
43, 187-220. 
Leng, M.M., & Zhu, A. (2009). Side-payment contracts in two-person nonzero-sum supply chain games: 
Review, discussion and applications. European Journal of Operational Research, 196, 600-618. 
Li, S.J., & Hua, Z.S. (2008). A note on channel performance under consignment contract with revenue 
sharing. European Journal of Operational Research, 184, 793-796. 
Liang, T.P., & Huang, J.S. (1998). An empirical study on consumer acceptance of products in electronic 
markets: A transaction cost model. Decision Support Systems, 21, 29- 43. 
Linh, C. T., & Hong, Y. (2009). Channel coordination through a revenue sharing contract in a two-period 
newsboy problem. European Journal of Operational Research, 198, 822-829. 
Milgrom, P., & Roberts, J. (1990). Rationalizability, learning, and equilibrium in games with strategic 
complementarities. Econometrica, 58, 1255-1277.  
Mills, D.E., (1995). Why retailers sell private labels. Journal of Economics and Management Strategy, 4, 
509-528. 
Mulpuru, S., Hult, P., Evans, P.F., Sehgal, V., & McGowan B. (2010). US Online retail forecast, 2009 to 
2014. Forrester Research (March 5).  
Nagarajan M., & Sošić G. (2008). Game-theoretic analysis of cooperation among supply chain agents: 
55 
 
Topkis, D.M. (1979). Equilibrium points in nonzero-sum n-person submodular games. SIAM Journal on 
Control and Optimization, 17, 773-787.  
Topkis, D.M. (1998). Supermodularity and Complementarity. New Jersey: Princeton University Press. 
Trivedi, M. (1998). Distribution channels: an extension of exclusive retailership, Management Science, 44, 
896-909. 
Tsay, A.A. & Agrawal, N. (2004a). Modeling conflict and coordination in multi-channel distribution system: 
A review. In: D. Simch-Levi, S. D. Wu, & M. Shen (Eds.), Handbook of Quantitative Supply Chain 
Analysis: Modeling in the e-business era (pp.557-606). Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers. 
Tsay, A.A., & Agrawal, N. (2004b). Channel conflict and coordination in the e-commerce age. Production 
and Operations Management, 13, 93-110.  
U.S. Census Bureau News (2011). Quarterly retail e-commerce sales 2nd quarter. 
http://www.census.gov/retail/mrts/www/data/pdf/ec_current.pdf. 
Vilcassim, N.J., Kadiyali, V., Chintagunta, P.K. (1999). Investigating Dynamic Multifirm Market 
Interactions in Price and Advertising, Management Science, 45, 499-518. 
Walgreens (2011). Walgreens launches Nice! store brand chainwide, continues building value and loyalty 
with its private brands. http://news.walgreens.com/article_display.cfm?article_id=5457. 
Wei, Y., & Choi, T.M. (2010). Mean-variance analysis of supply chains under wholesale pricing and profit 
sharing schemes. European Journal of Operational Research, 204, 255-262. 
Weng, Z.K. (1999). The power of coordinated decisions for short-life-cycle products in a manufacturing and 
distribution supply chain. IIE Transactions, 31, 1037-1049. 
Xu, M., Chen, Y., & Xu, X. (2010). The effect of demand uncertainty in a price-setting newsvendor model. 
European Journal of Operational Research, 207, 946-957. 
Yalabik, B., Petruzzi, N.C., & Chhajed, D. (2005). An Integrated product returns model with logistics and 
marketing coordination. European Journal of Operational Research, 161, 162-182. 
Yan, R. (2008). Profit sharing and firm performance in the manufacturer-retailer dual-channel supply chain. 
Electronic Commerce Research, 8, 155-172.  
Yan, R. (2010). Product brand differentiation and dual-channel store performances of a multi-channel retailer. 
European Journal of Marketing, 44, 672-692. 
Yan, R, & Bhantnagar, A. (2008). Product Choice Strategy for Online Retailers, International Journal of 
E-business Research, 4, 22-39. 
Yao, D.Q., & Liu, J.J. (2005). Competitive pricing of mixed retail and e-tail distribution channels. Omega, 
33, 235-247.  
Yao, D.Q., Yue, X., & Liu, J.J. (2008). Vertical cost information sharing in a supply chain with value-adding 
retailers. Omega, 36, 838-851. 
Yao, D.Q., Yue, X., Mukhopadhyay, S.K., & Wang, Z. (2009). Strategic inventory deployment for retail and 
e-tail stores. Omega, 37, 646-658.  
Yue, X. & Liu, J., (2006). Demand forecast sharing in a dual-channel supply chain. European Journal of 
Operational Research, 174, 646-667. 
Zhang, X. & Prybutok, V.R. (2005). A consumer perspective of e-service quality. IEEE transactions on 
Engineering Management, 52, 461-477. 
57 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■   達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
 Y.C. Chen, S.C. Fang and U.P. Wen, “Pricing Policies for Substitutable Products in a Supply 
Chain with Internet and Traditional Channels,” European Journal of Operational Research, 
Vol. 224, No. 3, pp. 542-551, (2013). (SCI, SSCI). 
 Y.C. Chen and U.P. Wen, “An optimal brand strategy and channel structure for retailers 
and manufacturers,” European Journal of Operational Research, (submitted), (2013). 
 Y.C. Chen and U.P. Wen, “The Impact of a Revenue Sharing Contract on Brand Strategy 
and Channel Structure,” International Journal of Production Economics, (in revision), 
(2013). 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/10/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 具網際網路與傳統銷售通路供應鏈之定價策略研究
計畫主持人: 溫于平
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-007-056-MY2 學門領域: 作業研究
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
