with micrometer-sized tips is not possible. Combining 
WEDG technology and OPED technology has been 
developed to fabricate micrometer-sized spherical stylus 
instantaneously [3]. However, the optimal parameters: 
including discharge energy, micro tool material and upper 
shaft diameter of the OPED system: have not yet been 
determined.  
     In this paper, various upper shaft diameters were first 
shaped using WEDG technology. OPED was then carried 
out to investigate the relationship between the diameter of 
the spherical stylus and the electro-discharge energy 
required. In the second experiment, an oscilloscope was 
used to record the electro-discharge pulse duration and 
peak current to investigate the instantaneous energy 
effects on micrometer-sized spherical stylus tips. Further 
advanced research of probing systems will make it 
possible to achieve more accurate three-dimensional 
micrometer-sized measurements. 
 
Figure.1 Limitations of conventional CMM 
2. Shaping micro tools and OPED process 
    Before fabricating a micro spherical stylus tip, a micro 
straight tool needs to prepare previously. Wire electrode 
tools of various diameters are readily available in the 
commercial market, even straight ones with diameter less 
than 0.08mm. However, these micro wire electrodes are 
difficult to install with high accuracy on an EDM 
machine. WEDG technology [4] is easily employed and 
combined with OPED for micro tool fabrication on one 
machine. WEDG technology is similar to turning on a 
lathe except that material is removed by erosion with 
electrical discharge. A resistor-capacitor (RC) circuit 
generates pulses that produce electrical discharges 
between the electrode workpiece and a brass (or tungsten) 
sacrificial wire. Discharges between the two polarities 
cross a small gap (just few micrometers) filled with 
dielectric oil. The cylindrical material is held in a mandrel 
that rotates at 2500 RPM, and its position is fed in the z-
direction with an electro-discharge current detector. The 
brass wire is supported on a guide, and its position is 
controlled with an optical linear scale connected to a 
personal computer. To maintain a constant gap between 
the polarities, the sacrificial wire travels on the guide at a 
very slow speed. With precise position control, the 
system can fabricate micro tools with diameters of less 
than 5 µm [5]. The surface roughness of the tool is 
controllable with adjustments in capacitance and voltage, 
which suggests that the tools can be optimized for 
material removal rates and surface finish. The average 
roughness Ra can be reduced to approximately 60nm 
using WEDG technology [6].  
After shaping the microelectrode, the microelectrode 
was moved to the upper workpiece mounted on the stage. 
The OPED system detects the workpiece to keep a 
smaller gap between the two polarities. While the 
microelectrode senses the electro-discharge gap, the 
OPED system switches the electro-discharge circuit into a 
one-pulse electro-discharge type. The OPED system 
machining conditions are shown in Table 1. Image 
measurements of the both D and L directions indicate the 
approximate outer profile and centeral-shifting distance 
of the micro spherical stylus tips.  
In selecting materials for the stylus, both hardness and 
toughness must be taken into account to prevent breakage 
and bending. Tungsten carbide and tungsten, both with a 
good balance of hardness and toughness, were selected in 
this paper. 
Table1. Machining conditions of OPED system 
Open voltage 100±3 V 
Material tungsten 
Dielectric oil 
Spindle rotation 2500 rpm 
Optical Measurement 
D: radius value 
L: vertical value  
diameter of the shaft decreases, the electro-discharge 
pressure (N/cm2) increases. The spherical stylus tip 
therefore becomes more conical. The spherical stylus tip 
has a small roundness deviation of about 2µm with a shaft 
diameter between 20µm and 25µm. Figure 4 shows the 
view of micro spherical stylus. The melted part attached 
on the stem because of large electro-discharge force while 
the upper shaft diameter is about 15µm. In order to 
fabricate micro spherical stylus precisely by OPED, it is 
necessary to consider the force balance with selecting 
proper diameter of the shaft of micro tools. Figure 5 
shows the same trend as figure 3. From the Fig. 5, with 
the electro-discharge peak current and pulse duration 
approximately 2.5A and 50µs respectively, A spherical 
stylus tip diameter of approximately ¢50µm can be 
fabricated when the upper shaft diameter is between 
25µm and 30µm. Precision of the spherical stylus tip will 
deteriorate with increasing electro-discharge energy 
which is considered as an imbalance in thermal and force 
effects. 
 
Figure 4: Views of micro spherical stylus by OPED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Outer shape of micro spherical stylus by OPED 
3.3 Effects of the same polarity thermal energy 
Figure 6 shows the recorders of one pulse electro-
discharge wave and peak current. The electro-discharge 
current is not really stable during one pulse electro-
discharge. However, the average of electro-discharge 
current is approximately 1.3A～1.25A. The theoretical 
electro-discharge energy can be calculated using Equation 
1.The shaft diameter of the micro tool was ¢30 µm and 
the peak current and pulse duration were approximately 
1.3A and 100µs, respectively. The diameter of the 
spherical stylus tip is ¢50µm. Not only is the diameter but 
also the outer shape of the spherical stylus is almost 
similar with the same electro-discharge energy. OPED 
technology provides the electro-discharge thermal energy 
to melt the micro tool and the melted section will shrink 
into a spherical stylus because of surface tension force. It 
could be consider as a plastic forming process but 
removal erosion process. The roughness of the surface 
has an optical reflection condition. It needs to take into 
account the radius compensation of the spherical stylus 
when the stylus is used as a contacting probe on micro 
CMMs. In this paper, an image process with laser 
scanning optical system was integrated to measure entire 
profile of micro spherical stylus tips. Figure 7 shows the 
surface roughness of the stylus as small as 0.02µm, which 
will reduce the uncertainty of probing stylus system. The 
sphericity deviation of the spherical stylus shown in 
Table 2 could be as small as 1.2 µm.  
Figure 8: Views of spherical stylus tip with different 
material. 
4 Conclusion  
The OPED system integrated with WEDG technology 
was applied to fabricate micro spherical stylus tips that 
conventional machining methods were not capable of 
forming. A burnished micro spherical stylus with a tip 
diameter of approximately ¢40µm was formed 
instantaneously using the electro-discharge peak current 
and pulse duration of approximately 1.8A and 50µs, 
respectively. The smaller the diameter of the shaft 
electrode, the more conical the stylus tip becomes, and 
that the larger the diameter of the shaft electrode, the 
more elliptical the stylus tips becomes. The spherical 
stylus tip has a sphericity deviation of approximately 2µm 
with an upper shaft diameter between 20µm and 25µm. 
Moreover, the micro spherical stylus tip formed was 
approximately ¢50µm when the one pulse discharge 
energy was fixed at approximately same energy and was 
completely independent of pulse duration and peak 
current. That is, spherical stylus tips formed are almost 
the same dimension at the same polarities electro-
discharge energy. In addition, material elements with 
large surface tension will affect the qualities of the 
spherical stylus tips. Tungsten is an excellent material for 
micro spherical stylus tips because of its hardness and 
precision spherical shape. With further advanced research 
of micro CMM probing system, it will be possible to 
measure micrometer-sized products more precisely. 
Acknowledgement 
   This study was carried out under the sponsor of the 
National Science Council (NSC-95-2221-E-027-015). 
The authors express deep gratitude to the NSC of Taiwan 
for their support in research. 
Reference 
[1] G.N. Peggs, A.J. Lewis, S. Oldfield  Design for a 
Compact High-Accuracy CMM Annals of the CIRP 
Vol.48/1/1999 pp. 417-420. 
[2] H.Schwenke, F,waldele, C. Weiskirch, H. Kunzmann  
Opto-Tactile Sensor for 2D and 3D Measurement of 
Small Structures on Coordinate Measuring Machine 
Annals of the CIRP Vol.50/1/2001 pp.361-364 
[3] D.-Y.,Sheu Micro- Spherical Probes Machining by 
EDM  Journal of Micromechanics and Microengineering 
Vol.15, 2005 pp.185-189  
[4] T.Masuzawa, M. Fujino and K. Kobayashi Wire 
Electro-Discharge Grinding for Micro machining Annals 
of CIRP, Vol.34, 1 , 1985  PP. 431-434  
[5] Kai Egashira, Katsumi Mizutani  Micro-drilling of 
monocrystalline silicon using a cutting tool  Journal of 
International Societies for Precision Engineering and 
Nanotechnology Vol.26, 2002 pp. 263-268 
[6] Chris J Morgan, R Ryan Vallance and Eric R Marsh 
Micro machining glass with polycrystalline diamond 
tools shaped by micro electro discharge machining 
Journal of Micromechanics and Microengineering Vol.14 , 
2004 pp.1687-1692  
[7] Hideki Takezawa, Y Ito, N. Mohri: The Behavior of 
Thin Electrode Wear in Electrical Discharge Machining 
Proceedings of the 13th International Symposium for 
Electromachining ISEM , 2004 pp.727-735 
[8] S. Hayakawa, M. Yuzawa, M. Kunieda and N. 
Hishiwaki: Time Variation and Mechanism of 
Determining Power Distribution in Electrodes during 
EDM process International journal of Electrical 
machining (IJEM) No.6, January 2001, PP.19-25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC95-2221-E-027-015 
計畫名稱 微細單發放電應用於超微細球狀探針與微細球體模穴加工技術研發(Ⅲ) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
許 東亞 
台北科技大學 副教授 
會議時間地點 2007/04/23—2007/04/27 
會議名稱 International Symposium on Electromachining (ISEM 15th) 
發表論文題目 An Investigation on Microholes Machining Phenomena of Polycrystalline Diamond by EDM 
 
一、參加會議經過 
國際電加工學會(ISEM)是電加工研究學者極為重要之國際學術會議，它是 CIRP 以下之
常設會議每 3 年召開 1 次，只要與電能量加工之相關論文均可發表。本年度是第 15 次會
議在美國匹茲堡(USA Pittsburgh)舉行，4 月 20 日由臺灣出發經洛杉磯再轉飛匹茲堡，並
在洛杉磯停留 3 日參觀 UCLA。 
4 月 24 日早上由會議主辦人 K.P. Rajurkar 引言後，開始 Keynote speaker 介紹最近微細加
工技術之發展，接著由美國主管科研計畫(類似臺灣國科會)之主持人介紹美國 SBIR 之發
展狀況及美國補助科研計畫之內容。下午之後就是一連串的論文發表。本人的論文有關
人工鑽石加工被安排在第一天下午後段時間並擔任該時段演講之主持人。本次 ISEM 論文
中有關非導體材料之電氣加工之論文比往常多，利用電解液低壓放電(ECDM)達到去除之
目的，特別是玻璃加工及陶瓷加工特別顯著。可見非導體如玻璃、陶瓷等微細加工是未
來一個重要課題也值得學術界持續研究開發。 
最後一天(4 月 28 日)成行程 ISEM 主辦單位安排參觀工廠 USA Exetrude Hone 公司，該
公司距匹茲堡約 1小時之車程。主要從事客戶委託之拋光加工(AFM)，利用彈性黏體加入
粉體顆粒拋光內孔或特殊曲面之工件，一些大型航空機件及醫療用品之拋光該公司可說
是全美國頂尖的公司。目前國內相關技術之研究還在進行中，有必要投入更多之研究經
費特別是彈性黏體材料之開發。 
    4 月 28 日下午從匹茲堡轉洛杉磯再回到臺灣。 
            
         與工研院研究員合影                         UCLA 校園 
