次世代異質性通信系統的低功率、高速度積分三角式類比數位轉換器研製 
“High Speed Low Power Sigma Delta Modulator Analog to Digital Converter for Heterogeneously Next 
Generation Communication System” 
計畫編號：NSC96-2221-E-032-053 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1 日 至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：江正雄 淡江大學電機系教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫專注於 4G 晶片組中介面轉換器的
設計，由完整的系統模擬中，設計適合系統使
用的積分三角調變器(Sigma Delta Modulator, 
SDM)式類比數位轉換器 (Analog to Digital 
Converter, ADC)。在設計 ADC 時，由於未來
的 4G 將使用在許多具行動概念的器材上，結
合現有高經濟效益的 GSM、WiMax、與 WLAN
等系統，多重系統的結合將是一個重要的應用
趨勢；由於是行動通信器材，因此在設計電路
時，必須審慎考量低功率消耗(Low Power)、
高 速 度 (High Speed) 、 與 高 解 析 度 (High 
Resolution)等三項特點，以求達到長時間使用
及降低成本的目的。 
開發多模切換技術之積分三角調變器。使
用 SC 電路時，適當的切換在不同系統下的電
路架構，利用可重新配置的特性節省電路的功
率消耗與成本；在最佳電流值與供應電流時間
下，使消耗功率最佳化，同時保有高速操作的
特色。在研究與設計 4G 所使用的 ADC 的過程
中，我們將著重於從系統的層級來考慮及設計
電路，也就是 Top-Down Design 的電路設計方
式，使執行本計畫的研究生能建立對整體系統
的設計概念，在有限的資源與成本下，精確的
設計符合系統需求的電路，並期望藉著本研究
計畫的執行，能對國內混合式系統 IC 的設計
能力有所助益。 
英文摘要 
This proposal proposes a two-year research 
project for the low power, high speed, and high 
resolution sigma delta modulation (SDM) ADC 
for 4G applications. 4G is a wireless 
metropolitan area network (WMAN) concept 
and will become popular in the future. 
According to the research preview, WiMax and 
WLAN overlap 3G communications and may 
replace 3G. GSM is the most popular 2G mobile 
communication system and may last for a while. 
The combination of WiMAX, WLAN, and GSM 
(Multi Mode) may be a very important 
application in the next generation mobile 
communication systems. Since the needs of 
mobility in the 4G system, the ADC should have 
the characteristics of low power consumption, 
high speed, and high resolution.  
This project will develop a multi mode 
sigma delta modulator with power optimization 
technology. The current supplies in different 
states, slewing, settling, and holding, of a 
switching capacitor (SC) may be different and 
the SC circuit still works properly. By our 
experience, a proper arrangement of the supplies 
of the current may save power. Therefore, we 
will try to find an optimal current supply for 
different states (slewing, settling, and holding) to 
save power as much as possible. By this 
technology we will design a low power, high 
speed, and high resolution SDM for wide 
bandwidth applications.  
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
無線通信技術以使用之範圍可區分為
技術。當 ADC 越接近天線，則數位化的電路
就越多，就可以將大部分的電路以 DSP 來處
理，如此便可以配合可再重置的可程式化數位
系統減少硬體的複雜度與需求，讓未來的手機
達到多頻與多模的設計。 
由無線通信發展的歷史與技術角度來
看，以無線行動通信為主軸，每十年會產生一
個世代。每一個世代的演進不僅僅只是在速度
與功能上作提升，更重要的是，新世代的技術
將向下相容而且也需要橫向的擴展以維持其
領先的地位。圖三的整併趨勢可以了解到每個
世代的演進與擴增的情勢。第四代無線通信系
統將有以下的定義[2]： 
A. 以網路協定為基礎之多媒體平台
(IP-based Multimedia) 
B. 高速度(High Speed) 
C. 高容量(High Capacity) 
D. 低成本(Low Cost) 
E. 異質性接面(Heterogeneity)  
F. 無縫式系統(Seamless) 
由計畫背景的技術層面及第四代無線通信系統
的目標來定義，本研究計畫的目的在討論與設
計一個以軟體無線電接收器為基礎，使用於次
世代異質性通信系統的低功率、高速度積分三
角式類比數位轉換器(Sigma Delta ADC)。 
 
三、 究方法及成果 
本 計 畫 將 以 MASH Sigma Delta 
Modulation 技術來實現 4G 中的 ADC[3, 4]。在
4G 的系統中，ADC 至少要綜合 GSM、
WCDMA、WLAN 與 WMAX 等四種系統，分
別要有 14、12、8 與 10 位元以上的解析度，
這是一個相當具有挑戰性的計畫，挑戰如何做
到一個具有可重新配置(Reconfigurable)能力
的 ADC [5-13]。由於本計畫是注重於手持式無
線通訊的應用，所要研製的高速 ADC 必須具
備低功率消耗的特性，因此本計畫的難度在於
如何以最低的消耗功率於各種系統之間做高
速 的 切 換 。
 
圖三、通信系統整併演進與擴增的情勢 
 
在 SDM 的設計上，採 SC 的技術來實現
電路達到高準確度的係數實現，Switches、
Capacitors、OPAMPs、Clocks 與 Bias 都必須
詳加考量。OPAMPs 一般都是最耗電流的部
分，為了達到更省電的目的，在 OPAMPs 的
設計上，我們設計 Low Power OPAMPs，加入
Power Optimization 的技術，使本研究計畫實
現之 ADC 能達到效率最佳化的境界[14, 15]。 
考慮應用在 SC 電路時，圖四為一般 SC
積分器電路。在實現電路時除了考慮既有的
CS及 CF之外，還需加入 CP及 CL兩個相關的 
電容值，以求得最佳之功率估計。計算在不同
時態時，Φ1 (Sampling)及 Φ2 (Integrating)的回
授因子 β值。決定 OPAMP 的最小需要電流得
到最小消耗功率。 
本計畫中所設計的 SDM 為六階(2-2-2) 
MASH SDM。如圖五，每一級的量化器皆為
1.5-Bit，利用 Feedforward 的架構減小各積分
器的輸出擺幅，降低 OPAMP 的非線性效應與
消耗電流。系統的係數(a1 與 a2)分別為(1 與
0.6)，各級的零點回數係數(f1, f2, 與 f3)為(0, 
0.01, 與 0.25)。系統電路採用的 OPAMP 為增
益 增 強 型 串 級 運 算 放 大 器 (Gain-boost 
Telescopic amplifier)，如圖六，與串級運算放
大器(Telescopic amplifier)。以最佳之功率估計
法設計，可由表一透過 VOV的選擇得到最佳化
Radio Receiver: Dream to Reality,” IEEE 
Communications Magazine, pp. 111-118, 
Aug. 2006. 
2. K. R. Santhi and G. S. Kumaran, 
“Migration to 4G: Mobile IP based 
Solutions,” IEEE Proceeding of AICT/ICIW, 
pp 76-76, Feb. 2006. 
3. G. Gielen and E. Goris, “Reconfigurable 
Front-End Architectures and A/D 
Converters for Flexible Wireless 
Transceivers for 4G Radios,” IEEE CAS 
Symposium on Emerging Technologies: 
Circuit and System for 4G Mobile Wireless 
Communications, pp.13-18, June 2005. 
4. A. Rusu, D. Rodriguez, and M. 
Ismail, ”Reconfigurable ADCs Enable 
Smart Radios for 4G Wireless 
Connectivity,” IEEE Circuits and Devices 
Magazine, pp.6-11, May 2006. 
5. B. J. Farahani, and M. Ismail, “Adaptive 
Sigma Delta ADC for WiMAX Fixed Point 
Wireless Applications,” IEEE MWSCAS, 
Vol. 1, pp. 7-10, Aug. 2005 
6. B. J. Farahani, and M. Ismail, “WiMAX/ 
WLAN Radio Receiver Architecture for 
Convergence in WMANS,” IEEE MWSCAS, 
Vol. 2, pp. 7-10, Aug. 2005. 
7. M. Zargari, M. Terrovitis, S. H. M. Jen, B. J. 
Kaczynski, M. L. Lee, M. P. Mack, S. S. 
Mehta, S. Mendis, K. Onodera, H. Samavati, 
W. W. Si, K. Singh, A. Tabatabaei, D. 
Weber, D. K. Su, and B. A. Wooley, “A 
Single-Chip Dual-Band Tri-Mode CMOS 
Transceiver for IEEE 802.11a/b/g Wireless 
LAN,” IEEE JSSC, vol. 39, pp. 2239-2249, 
Dec. 2004. 
8. A. Baschirotto, F. Campi, R. Castello, G. 
Cesura, R. Guerrieri, L. Lavagno, A. Lodi, 
P. Malcovati, and M. Toma, “Baseband 
Analog Front-End and Digital Back-End for 
Reconfigurable Multi-Standard Terminals,” 
IEEE Trans. Circuits and System Magazine, 
pp. 8-28, first quarter 2006. 
9. L. J. Breems, E. J. V. D. Zwan, and J. H. 
Huijsing, “A 1.8-mW CMOS ΔΣ Modulator 
with Integrated Mixer for A/D Conversion 
of IF Signals,” IEEE JSSC, vol. 35, pp. 
468-475, Apr. 2000. 
10. T. Burger, and Q. Huang, “A 13.5-mW 
185-Msample/s ΔΣ Modulator for 
UMTS/GSM Dual-Standard IF Reception,” 
IEEE JSSC, vol. 36, pp. 1868-1878, Dec. 
2001. 
11. R. Jiang and T. S. Fiez, “A 14-bit 
Delta-Sigma ADC with 8 OSR and 4-MHz 
Conversion Bandwidth in a 0.18-um CMOS 
Process,” IEEE JSSC, vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 
63-74, Jan. 2004. 
12. M. R. Miller and C. S. Petrie, “A Multibit 
Sigma-Delta ADC for Multimode 
Receivers,” IEEE JSSC, vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 
475-482, Mar. 2003. 
13. T. Burger and Q. Huang: “A 13.5-mW 
185-Msample/s DS Modulator for 
UMTS/GSM Dual-Standard IF Reception,” 
IEEE JSSC, vol. 36, pp. 1868-1878, Dec. 
2001. 
14. Pio Balmelli and Qiuting Huang, “A 
25MS/s 14b 200mW Sigma Delta 
Modulator in 0.18um CMOS,” IEEE ISSCC, 
vol. 4 , Feb. 2004. 
15. K. Vleugels, S. Rabii, and B. A. 
Wooley, ”A 2.5-V Sigma-Delta Modulator 
for Broadband Communication 
Applications,” IEEE JSSC, vol. 36, pp. 
1887-1899, Dec. 2001. 
High Efficiency Architecture of ESCOT with Pass 
Concurrent Context Modeling Scheme for Scalable 
Video Coding 
Jen-Shiun Chiang, Ting-Hao Hwang, Tsung-Ta Lin, and Chih-Hsien Hsia 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
Tamkang University 
Tamsui, Taipei, Taiwan 
Email: chiang@ee.tku.edu.tw; talest@ee.tku.edu.tw 
 
Abstract—In this work, we propose a high efficiency hardware 
architecture of embedded sub-band coding with optimal 
truncation (ESCOT) with pass concurrent context modeling 
(PCCM) scheme for wavelet-based scalable video coding (SVC). 
PCCM can merge the three-pass process of bit-plane coding into 
a single pass process. It improves the efficiency of the ESCOT 
algorithm and reduces the frequencies of memory access, which 
can reduce the power consumption. Furthermore we use the 
parallel architecture scheme of PCCM to encode 4 samples 
concurrently, which improves the operation speed and can 
reduce 40% of internal memory requirement. We use Artison 
TSMC 0.18μm 1P6M standard cell library to design and 
implement the proposed concurrent context modeling. The 
simulation results indicate that PCCM can have an operation 
speedup of 9.5 compared to the standard context modeling of 
ESCOT, and it can operate for 1080p with frame rate of 30fps at 
clock rate of 125MHz. 
I. INTRODUCTION  
As the massive demand of video sequence in multimedia 
applications, the video sequence compression technique 
becomes more and more important. It does not only require 
high video quality and compression efficiency, but also needs 
more new functions to develop more applications. Scalable 
video coding (SVC) [1-2] is a novel and high efficiency 
coding technique and is expected as the next video sequence 
compression standard. It has better compression efficiency, 
superior video quality, error resilience, and enhanced 
functions than MPEG 2 [3] and H.264/AVC [4]. The aim of 
SVC is to develop wide multimedia access services such that 
users can get multimedia information through variable devices 
from different locations and different platforms. 
At present there are two major techniques for SVC, the 
DCT-based scheme [2] and the DWT-based scheme [1]. 
Although currently the main standard coding technique is the 
DCT-based scheme, the wavelet-based scheme has the 
advantage of resolution scalability, which the DCT-based 
SVC can hardly achieve [1][5]. The wavelet-based SVC uses 
the technique of embedded sub-band coding with optimal 
truncation (ESCOT) to encode the raw data on each bit-plane 
[1]. It is flexible because it encodes one sample on each bit-
plane a time, and it can be extended to the object-based coding 
very easily. The Barbell lifting 3D wavelet coding [1] 
proposed by Microsoft Research Asia (MSRA) is one of the 
most effective coding scheme in the DWT-based SVC.  
In the wavelet-based SVC coding scheme, the raw image 
sequence will be analyzed to a total of 40 different sub-bands 
after wavelet transformation and quantization [1]. Each of the 
40 sub-bands is coded independently by entropy coding and 
then is exported as the encoded bit-streams. In the wavelet-
based SVC the entropy coding takes a lot of computation 
efforts due to the encoding approach of ESCOT, which uses 
the fractional bit-plane coding technique. In ESCOT each 
sample on the bit-plane is scanned 3 times and encoded by 
only one of the 3 coding passes. Since it needs a lot of bit-
level operations, it is very suitable to be implemented by 
hardware for real time applications. 
Actually ESCOT is revised from the embedded block 
coding with optimized truncation (EBCOT) of JPEG 2000 
standard [6]; the algorithms and some of the techniques of 
theses two approaches can be shared each other. However, the 
coding structure of ESCOT is different from EBCOT; ESCOT 
uses a new 3D context table for arithmetic coding that makes 
the algorithm to be more suitable for the SVC system [1]. 
Currently there are very few researches discussing about the 
hardware architecture and implementation of ESCOT. On the 
other hand, many papers have been published to analyze, 
design, and implement the EBCOT of JPEG 2000 [7-12]. 
Since the coding pass approach of the conventional EBCOT 
may reduce the encoding efficiency significantly, several 
researches try to modify the coding pass operation to increase 
the encoding efficiency [7-8]. Chiang et al. [7] proposed pass 
parallel context modeling (PPCM), to merge the three-pass 
coding scheme to a single pass coding scheme. PPCM can 
reduce 2/3 of the operation time in context modeling 
computation compared to the conventional approach. Besides 
the operation efficiency, PPCM can also reduce 20% of the 
internal memory requirement. However, in PPCM the order of 
the context modeling pattern (CX-D pair) is not generated 
following the order of the JPEG 2000 standard, and paper [7] 
proposed pass switch arithmetic encoder (PSAE) to finish the 
arithmetic encoding. 
Figure 3.   The block diagram of PSAE. 
III. PASS CONCURRENT CONTEXT MODELING 
ESCOT uses coding pass approach to encode the sample data. 
In the context modeling processing each sample is scanned 3 
times, and the sample is encoded by its own pass and skips the 
other two passes. Since only 1/3 of the operations are valid, 
2/3 of the operations and memory access times are wasted. In 
order to increase the operation efficiency and speed, we 
propose a new context modeling approach, pass concurrent 
context modeling (PCCM), to compute the context modeling. 
PCCM tries to merge the three coding pass operations to a 
single pass operation to improve the coding efficiency. 
Furthermore PCCM can process 4 samples in consecutive 4 
frames concurrently to increase the operation speed. 
A. Coding pass merging 
The coding pass decision flow is shown in Fig. 4. In Fig. 4, σN 
indicates the significant state of the surrounding neighbors of 
the current sample. In order to allow the encoding sample not 
to wait till the finish of the operation of the surrounding 
neighbor samples (especially those samples have not been 
scanned but the belonged passes are less than the current 
sample), we must predict the significant states of the 
surrounding samples. Actually there are two kinds of 
predicted significant states. One is processed by Pass1 called 
virtual significant state, σv. The other is processed by Pass 3, 
and this kind of significant state can be calculated by logic OR 
of the current σ and Vp. The Pass 2 operation does not change 
the value of the significant state, and therefore we do not need 
to do prediction and the value of the significant state is equal 
to that of the virtual significant state. 
For predicting σv we must use σ to decide whether the 
sample is belonged to Pass 1. If this sample is belonged to 
Pass 1 and Vp = 1, the significant sate of this sample is set to 1 
in Pass 1. If the significant sate of this sample becomes 1 
before the Pass 1 encoding, it is still significant after the Pass 
1 encoding. We can use the following equation to find σv. 
σv = (the sample belonged to Pass 1 & Vp) || σ   ; 
                = ((σN & ! σ) & Vp) || σ     
= (σN & Vp) || σ                                                   (1)  
The neighbors of the current encoding sample can be 
classified into two categories, coded samples and un-coded 
samples, as shown in Fig. 5. The prediction of the significant 
states of the coded samples and un-coded samples is different. 
The significant state selection in different coding pass is 
shown in Table II.  
 
 
 
Figure 4.   The coding decision flow. 
Figure 5.   Coded samples and un-coded samples. 
Figure 6.  The relationship of Vp, σ, and σ2. 
TABLE II.  THE SIGNIFICANT STATE SELECTION IN  CODING PASSESS. 
Significant State Selection 
usage Coded samples Current samples Un-coded samples 
σv Prediction σv σ σ 
Pass 1 coding σv σ σ 
Pass 2 coding σv σv σv
Pass 3 coding σv || VP  σv σv
In ESCOT, σ and σ2 are used to record the significant state 
and first refinement state, respectively. When analyzing Vp, σ, 
and σ2, we find σ2(t) is equal to σ(t-1) and the relationship 
graph is shown in Fig. 6. σ(t) can be calculated from (2). 
           σ( t ) = σ( t - 1) || Vp( t ) = σ2( t ) || Vp( t )                  (2) 
Since σ can be calculated by σ2 and Vp, we do not need to 
store the σ values and the memory for σ can be removed. 
Totally the PCCM architecture can save 40% of internal 
memory compared to the ESCOT standard. 
