1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
海浪與風力複合式壓電結構之綠色能源系統研製(I) 
Prototyping a Hybrid Energy Regenerating System  
Based Upon Ocean Wave and Wind Power Generators  
Using Piezoelectric Transducers (I) 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 98-2221-E-211-019 
執 行 期 限：98 年 08 月 01 日 至 99 年 07 月 31 日 
主 持 人：李福星         華梵大學 機電工程學系暨研究所 
共同主持人：  湯同達、黃忠仁   華梵大學 機電工程學系暨研究所 
計畫參與人員：陳志雄 張延任 黃雅誾 華梵大學 機電工程學系暨研究所 
一、中文摘要 
本計劃就台灣四面環海且近海地區
季節風力強盛狀態，開發一套海浪暨風力
複合式壓電轉換發電再生能源雛形，主要
包括一風力經壓電轉換發電子系統，一海
浪經壓電轉換發電子系統，及一複合式再
生電力處理儲存子系統。本研究計劃動機
為因應開發綠色能源及機電整合技術應
用趨勢，設計並研製該新型複合式機構，
可擷取自然界潔淨再生能源，累積自行開
發壓電轉換產生電能設備之研發能量。 
關鍵詞： 風力發電、海浪發電、壓電發電機、
複合式再生能源。 
Abstract 
The project is designated is to design 
and prototype a hybrid energy regenerating 
system based upon ocean wave and wind 
power using piezoelectric transducers.  
The conceptual approach emerges from 
considering Taiwan’s geographical features, 
culture background, and climate 
characteristics. The system consists of a 
piezoelectric-transducer-based wind power 
generating subsystem, a piezoelectric- 
transducer-based ocean wave power 
generating subsystem, and a hybrid electric 
power processing and storage subsystem. 
The motivation of presenting this research 
is to fulfill the growing demands of green 
energy explorations with mechatronical 
technology employed. 
Keywords:  Wind power generator, ocean 
wave power generator, 
piezoelectric power generator, 
hybrid energy generation 
二、前言 
近年來有限資源之石油價格不斷上
漲，而其石化燃料耗能更是地球暖化的主
要元兇之ㄧ。因此，目前世界各國不斷尋
求新型替代能源，其中又以各種綠色能源
廣受各界重視。反觀台灣因能源產生原物
料大都仰賴由其他國家進口，造成近年電
費、瓦斯、及石油價格一路攀升。台灣現
今電力來源大多取自於火力發電約占
3 
五、研究方法 
本計畫這一年度執行海浪與風力複
合式壓電轉換發電再生能源系統研製過
程，已完成設計並製作壓電式發電模組化
機組、風力式壓電發電機構、海浪式壓電
發電機構、及再生電力處理儲存子系統，
以下分別說明其各部分進行研究過程： 
1. 壓電式發電模組化機組研製 
本計畫該部份研究首先進行壓電材
料產生電壓基本理論瞭解，探討壓電材料
受力後輸出電流或電壓(正壓電效應)，將
機械能轉換產生電能機制。 
然後，本計畫應用多重物理電腦輔助
分析工具COMSOL(探討壓電材料內應變
與電場分佈)，建立各形狀尺寸壓電有限
元素耦合模型，評估比較各種壓電材料結
構產生能量機制，並擇其優者如圖(一)所
示，搜尋可能商用壓電發電材料結構規
格，然後分析其材料結構驅動方式(扭
轉、彎曲、延展、或複合)可產生最大轉
換效能，藉以選用適合本計畫系統設計之
壓電材料規格。本計畫所選用之商用壓電
材料結構，中間層金屬電極接地，上下兩
層壓電陶瓷材料定義為正負極，可應用上
述模型建立流程，模擬測試實際選用壓電
材料發電轉換效能，並設計製作其壓電式
發電測試機台，如圖(二)所示，瞭解其驅
動頻率、變形範圍等所產生能量之數據分
析結果。 
 
圖(一) 多物理量COMSOL設計壓電結構 
 
圖(二) 壓電材料實際測試機台 
本計畫設計壓電式發電機組過程，考
慮壓電材料結構尺寸規格與風力式發電
機構、海浪式壓電發電機構配合方式。因
風力機構為機械能量旋轉驅動模式，海浪
機構機構為機械能量上下線性驅動模
式，就該兩種運動兩種發電模式選用旋轉
發電模式，可配合設置有複數個壓電結構
發電機組，如圖(三)所示，進行機械旋轉
能量轉換發電之動作。 
 
圖(三) 壓電式發電機組設計 
5 
 
圖(七) 海浪式壓電發電機構實體雛形 
4. 再生電力處理儲存子系統 
本計畫設計過程考慮該複合式壓電
發電機構，因風力驅動機構產生風能轉動
速率較快，海浪驅動機構產生轉動速率較
慢，將對壓電發電機組產生電能轉換有所
差異，但若設計增速齒輪組又將多消耗海
浪運動輸入機械能，是以本計畫在海浪式
壓電發電機構，設置兩組壓電式發電機組
以改善其效能。本計畫初期測試個別壓電
材料結構發電效能過程，先行製作一簡單
橋式整流電路，如圖(八)所示，將前述測
試機台中所設置個別壓電材料，接受機械
能輸入轉換所產生電能，整流為一個直流
電源，然後實施其處理電路至該風力式壓
電發電機構產生電壓波型如圖 (九 )所
示，以及實施至該海浪式壓電發電機構產
生電壓波型如圖(十)所示。 
 
圖(八) 壓電式發電機組整流電路 
 
圖(九) 風力式壓電發電機構產生電壓波型 
 
圖(十) 海浪式壓電發電機構產生電壓波型 
 
六、結果與討論 
本計畫進行探討過程，首先遭遇壓電
材料結構形狀、尺寸、特性等規格之選用
問題。由於目前市面製作壓電材料專門廠
商大多為致動器廠商（由輸入電能產生機
械位移動作），僅極少數廠商生產商用發
電用壓電材料結構，但多為撿拾如橋樑振
動能量信號之壓電片，未能有如本計畫所
需將較大位移產生機械能量轉換成為電
能之壓電材料結構。因此，本計畫必須就
轉換效能佳取得容易價格便宜商用規格
選用，因應其尺寸與形狀設計一個具有複
數個壓電材料組合發電機構，並配合前述
7 
八、參考文獻 
[1]  周卓明，2003，壓電力學(Piezoelectriciy 
Mechanics)，全華科技圖書公司。 
[2]  呂世智，2002，波浪發電之研究，崑山科
技大學碩士論文。 
[3]  黃冠智，2008，海洋波浪能量擷取系統之
分析：發電最佳化與平台抵振分析，國立
中山大學碩士論文。 
[4]  S. Priya, C.-T. Chen, D. Fye, and J. Zahnd, 
2005, “Piezoelectric Windmill: A Novel 
Solution Remote Sensing,” Japanese 
Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 44, No.3, 
pp. 104-107. 
[5]  C.-T. Chen, R. A. Islam, and S. Priya, 2006, 
“Electric Eneric Generator,” IEEE 
Transaction on Ultrasonics, and Frequency, 
Control, Vol. 53, No.3, pp. 656-661. 
[6]  R. Henderson, 2002, Piezoelectric 
Ceramics: Principles and Applications, 
APC Int. Ltd. 
[7]  林伯峰，2008，“離岸式風力發電與台
灣＂，能源報導，2008 年 3 月，pp.34-36。 
[8]  C.-T. Chen, R. A. Islam, and S. Priya, 2006, 
“Electric Eneric Generator,” IEEE 
Transaction on Ultrasonics, and Frequency 
Control, Vol. 53, No.3, pp. 656-661. 
[9]  D. H. Gehring, 2008, “Ocean Wave 
Generation,” United States Patent (Patent 
No. US 7,319,278 B2). 
[10]  D. H. Gehring, 2008, “Offshore Power 
Generator with Current, Wave or 
Alternative Generators,” United States 
Patent (Patent No. US 7,352,078 B2).
 
9 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
  根據相關市場調查及相關數據瞭解，風力發電在台灣具有極高可行性，
但由於其運轉噪音等因素造成其風力發電機組在都市中存在困難，因此大都
建議於海岸線上建置其風力發電機組，同時這兩年因各國幾個海浪發電成功
範例吸引許多國家爭相投入相關研究，緣是本計畫所研製一新型海浪與風力
複合式壓電轉換發電之再生能源系統，具有風力與海浪發電多工的特性與優
點，套句諺語『無風不起浪』說明風與浪常為同時存在，有利於該系統應用
於台灣地處海島形勢之海岸線上，應可成功引入自然界兩種形式能量，進行
複合式發電並同時提高自行開發機組發電效能。 
 
 
11 
技術/產品應用範圍 
本技術所研製雛形系統與技術研發經驗可：(1)有效應用電腦輔助
設計方法研製模組化壓電轉換發電機構。(2)有效開發擷取風力動
能後應用模組化壓電機構轉換產生電能平台。(3)有效開發擷取海
浪動能後應用模組化壓電機構轉換產生電能平台。(4)有效開發擷
取自然界動能後應用模組化壓電機構轉換產生電能平台。 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
推廣價值： 可以降低台灣對產生能源(如煤、核)原物料對國外之
依存性，利用台灣環海優勢建立依海傍生風能與海浪能量，提供
部分民生用電減低用電成本。 
運用價值： 可以提昇國內壓電生能模組化設備自行研製能力並創
造市場需求面。 
13 
11. Manufacturing Systems 
12. Mechanisms and Robotics 
13. Mechatronics 
14. Micro and Nanotechnology 
15. Science, Engineering & Education 
筆者發表之論文題目為 An optical fuzzy control servo system for biomedical specimen 
inspections 屬於本次大會機電整合範疇，研究主旨在利用模糊法則為控制主軸之開發，組立一
套生醫檢測影像之控制微動系統，並結合自動化光學變焦控制平台，將生醫檢體進行影像放
大、對焦、與光學切片之動作，進而達成觀測待測物微小特徵之目的。 
二、與會心得 
在大會舉行期間，筆者參加大會邀請之專題演講及不同主題之論文發表，並藉由與各國專
家學者的討論，從中了解目前工程系統設計與分析之發展趨勢，拓展筆者對國外相關研究之視
野。尤其在生醫檢測應用範疇、生醫影像處理技巧、及生醫檢測訊號電子電路設計相關主題之
論文探討，使筆者對國外相關研究有更深刻的認識，相信對筆者未來研究會有相當大之幫助。
另外，筆者在參加土耳其會議旅途上眼見處處民房或大小建築屋頂上，皆至少設有一大片太陽
能板旁置圓桶狀熱水器，可見土耳其中央與地方政府尚具遠見補助綠能產業不遺餘力，但思考
其地處中亞日照充足而因此善用其自然資源，深處島國台灣吾人應可更積極開發環海地勢所能
擷取之潔淨綠能，而政府單位建立獎勵相關綠能產業方案措施，補助自行開發擷能設備將是極
重要之臨門一腳。 
三、建議 
筆者藉由參加此次研討會機會獲得工程系統設計與分析相關領域之新知，尤其是熱流科學
方面之知識，相信對於未來教學及研究均會有相當大之幫助，特別感謝國科會資助筆者參加此
次會議。近年來在國科會的推動下，國內各領域的學術研究成果已大幅提升，但面臨全球的競
爭，加強國際間的學術交流是必然的趨勢，希望國科會能多提供機會使國內學者參加此類國際
研討會，相信對國內生醫檢測與能源工程結合教學研究之品質提昇會有相當大的助益。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
The Proceedings of the ASME 2010 10th Biennial Conference on Engineering Systems Design 
and Analysis on CD-ROM，內容收錄此次研討會各國學者所發表的論文。 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                    日期：2010 年 7 月 23 日 
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-211-019 
計畫名稱 海浪與風力複合式壓電轉換發電再生能源系統研製 
出國人員 
姓名 李福星 
服務機構
及職稱 華梵大學機電工程學系副教授 
會議時間 
2010 年 7 月 12 日至 
2010 年 7 月 14 日 會議地點
土耳其 伊斯坦堡 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)美國機械工程學會 2010 第十屆工程系統設計與分析研討會 
 (英文) ASME 2010 10th Biennial Conference on Engineering Systems Design and 
Analysis 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 生醫檢體光學檢測之模糊伺服控制系統 
 (英文) AN OPTICAL FUZZY CONTROL SERVO SYSTEM  
FOR BIOMEDICAL SPECIMEN INSPECTIONS 
一、參加會議經過 
美國機械工程學會 2010 第十屆工程系統設計與分析研討會(ASME 2010 10th Biennial 
Conference on Engineering Systems Design and Analysis)於 2010 年 7 月 12 日至 2010 年 7 月 14
日在土耳其伊斯坦堡舉行，此次大會係由美國機械工程學會土耳其分會及耶迪特佩大學
(Yeditepe University)主辦，舉辦地點為耶迪特佩大學。本屆會議收到之投稿摘要高達 1200 篇，
最後獲接受發表之論文數目為 568 篇，其中包括二十餘篇台灣學者所發表之論文，會中並邀請
五位知名之專家學者發表專題演講。研討會論文主要分為十五個領域： 
1. Advanced Energy Systems 
2. Advanced Materials and Tribology 
3. Applied Mechanics 
4. Automotive Engineering and Technologies 
5. Bioengineering and Biomedical Technology 
6. Computational Mechanics 
7. Design Engineering 
8. Dynamic Systems and Control 
9. Fluids Engineering 
10. Heat Transfer 
11. Manufacturing Systems 
 計畫主持人於 2010.7.11 在土耳其 ESDA 2010 大會開幕現場發表論文照片紀錄 
 
 
 2 Copyright © 2010 by ASME 
 
Figure 1  BIOMEDICAL SAMPLE INSPECTION SYSTEM 
1. Control processes for image inspection  
   After the inspection system acquires bio-sample images 
through a CCD detector, it analyzes the image features and 
calculates corresponding sharpness values for subsequent 
zooming, focusing, and sample slicing actions in turns.  
Utilizing a National Instrument multi-function data acquisition 
board and peripheral circuits, the image analyzed results are fed 
into a fuzzy controller to drive the lens mechanism for all sorts 
of motions.  The overall motion control architecture for the 
lens operations is illustrated in Figure 2.  
 
Figure 2  LENSES MOTION CONTROL ARCHITECTURE 
2. Close-loop control for image acquisitions  
    Through using image feedback means, the development of 
the close-loop inspection system is shown in Figure 3, where 
the standard gradient difference method is employed to 
calculate sharpness values of consecutively acquired sample 
images. The sharpness information is digested to issue 
subsequent motion control commands through the fuzzy 
controller, and then passed across the interface board to drive 
the motors and the PZT actuator.   
 
Figure 3  CLOSE-LOOP CONTROL IMAGE ACQUISITIONS  
3. Image post processing mechanism 
    The motion control system implements image post-
processing to compensate the sample image acquisition 
mechanism, as illustrated in Figure 4, in which the system 
consecutively captures sample images using the image 
acquisition tools, and passes them to the sharpness calculation 
mechanism.  Then, currently evaluated image sharpness and 
sharpness difference values, as compared with the previous 
ones, are fed to the fuzzy controller for calculating the motion 
control commands, which thereafter drive the lens mechanism 
and the PZT actuator.   
 4 Copyright © 2010 by ASME 
level mechanism to conduct the sharpness calculations directly 
using the effective image area.  The fuzzy control algorithm 
takes both calculated sharpness of a current image (soe) and its 
sharpness variation (Δsoe), which is relative to the previous 
calculated one, as system inputs. Five triangular membership 
functions for the current soe and Δsoe, respectively, are used 
to trigger defined fuzzy rules for maximum implications. 
Aggregations and de-fuzzifications are applied over the outputs 
of these implications to determine a concurrent control signal 
for driving the actuators. The auto-focusing process is 
illustrated in Figure 8.  
 
    Figure 8  AUTOFOCUSING PROCESSES 
2. Comparisons of sharpness evaluation functions  
Several image sharpness calculation algorithms are tested 
for the consecutively acquired images to determine the most 
adequate one for this application.  The evaluation functions 
tested include: (1) Standard Deviation, (2) Standard Gradient 
Deviation, (3) Entropy, (4) Average Gradient, (5) Wavelet, and 
(6) Multi-Wavelet methods.  The traces in Figure 9 show the 
image sharpness calculation results with oral cavity mucous 
membrane samples used, and Figure 10 displays the image 
sharpness calculation results with frog blood cell samples.  
The traces clearly demonstrate the sixth or seventh image 
exhibit relatively highest calculated values for the sharpest 
images, and the standard deviation approach always obtains 
higher identifiable sharpness values as compared with other 
evaluation functions. Hence, the standard deviation approach is 
employed for the prototyped biomedical inspection system. 
 
Figure 9  SHARPNESS FOR HUMAN BLOOD CELL IMAGES 
 
Figure 10  SHARPNESS FOR FROG BLOOD CELL IMAGES 
3. Auto-focusing and image sharpness determination  
This research also acquires images of a cotton stem 
sample consecutively to verify the auto-focusing system.  The 
system captures sample images every 12 mμ  advancing 
distance while the stepping motor rotates every 6 steps.  The 
calculated sharpness values of the acquired images vary from 
clear to dim and then to clear again, as shown in Figure 11.  
The calculated sharpness values are used to determine the 
rotation directions and steps assigned for the stepping motor 
driven mechanism.  This iteratively takes place to search 
around the optimal position as to acquire the relatively highest 
sharpness.   
 6 Copyright © 2010 by ASME 
parameters to control the lens motions during those two 
operations.    
This research evaluates average gradient, standard 
deviation, standard gradient deviation, entropy, and wavelet 
transformation methods to calculate image sharpness, and 
obtains fairly consistent results in defining the optimal image 
sharpness with the corresponding lenses locations.  Hence, the 
system employs the standard gradient method as the basic 
image sharpness calculation criterion, which extracts the major 
variation among consecutive acquired image, and then utilizes 
standard variation method to calculate the degrees of image 
variations.  This procedure proves successfully for the system 
to raise the differentiation rate in inspecting the samples.  The 
stepping motors advance 2 mμ each time for each step during 
experiments.  It is observed that acceptable motion is to 
acquire images every six-step advancing, and the differentiable 
image sharpness difference is within -2~2 for any consecutively 
acquired images. Furthermore, the differentiable image 
sharpness difference is also significantly improved for any 
consecutively acquired images once the piezoactuator is used to 
displace the lens mechanism.        
CONCLUSION 
This research successfully develops a biomedical image 
inspection system, which acquires sample images and controls 
the lens subsystems through the course motion driven motors 
and fine motion driven piezoactuator mechanisms, once the 
continuously calculated image sharpness as a feedback means 
to trigger the respective fuzzy controllers is applied.  Hence, 
the inspection system can effectively realize the designed 
zooming, focusing, and sectioning functions for a targeted 
biomedical sample.  Fro the developed system, it is achievable 
to minutely cross-section the inspected sample into many layers 
of sub-microns and acquires each layer image separately.   
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
The authors are grateful to the National Science Council, 
Taiwan, for partial financial support under Grant No.: NSC 97-
2221-E-211-008.  
REFERENCES 
[1] Dhawan, P., 2003, “A review on biomedical image processing 
and future trends”, Computer Methods and Programs in 
Biomedicine, Vol. 31, Iss. 3-4, pp. 141-183. 
[2] Berezsky, O., Berezska, K., Melnyk, G., and Batko, Y., 2009, 
“Design of computer systems for biomedical image analysis”, 
CAD Systems in Microelectronics, CADSM 10th International 
Conference, pp. 186-191.  
[3] West, G. A. and Hill, W. J., 1985, “Automatic optical   
inspection of printed circuit board”, International Conference 
on Image Processing, pp. 139-143. 
[4] Yeo, T., Ong, S. H., and Sinniah, R., 1993, “Autofocusing for 
tissue microscopy”, Image and Vision Computing, Vol. 11, 
No. 10, pp. 629-639. 
[5] Hsu, R. J., 2007, “Prototyping of an Image Inspection System in 
an Optomechanical Apparatus for Biomedical Inspection”, MS 
thesis, Mechatronical Eng. Dept., Huafan University, Taipei, 
Taiwan. 
[6] Gonzalez, R. C., Woods, R. E., and Eddins, S. L., 2004, Digital 
image processing using MATLAB, Prentice Hall. 
[7] Zheng, W. Y. , 2007, “Prototyping of a con-focal zooming 
apparatus for biomedical inspection”, MS thesis, Mechatronical 
Eng. Dept., Huafan University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
[8] Lee, K. and Pang, W. H., 1994, “A Brushless DC motor speed 
control system using fuzzy rules,” Fifth International 
Conference on Power Electronics and Variable-Speed Drives, 
pp. 101-106. 
[9] Lin, C. L., 2009, “Prototyping of an optical servo bio-inspection 
system”, MS thesis, Mechatronical Eng. Dept., Huafan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.  
[10] Bollenbeck, F. and Seiffert, U., 2009, “Computational 
intelligence in biomedical image processing,” Foundations of 
Computational Intelligence, Vol. 5, pp. 197-222. 
[11] Baatz, M., Zimmermann J., and Blackmore C., 2009, 
“Automated analysis and detailed quantification of biomedical 
images using definitions cognition network technology,” 
Combinatorial Chemistry & High Throughput Screening, 
Vol. 12, No. 9, pp. 908-916. 
[12] Hirimutugoda, Y.  and Wijayarathna, G. , 2009, “Analysis 
system for detection of red cell disorders using artificial neural 
networks,” Sri Lanka Journal of Bio-medical Informatics, 
Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 35-42.

其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計畫目前就壓電材料微動特性研究成果，今年度 2010年 7 月已在土耳其伊斯
坦堡國際研討會上，發表壓電材料在本研究團隊研製生醫光學檢測機台之應用
探討心得，同時本研究團隊預擬將在明年度 2010年，發表一篇本計畫關於模組
化壓電轉換機台設計研製探討文章，其後亦將發表兩篇關於風能壓電轉換發電
機台與海浪能壓電轉換發電機台之設計技術，並預期在半年內完成相關技術發
明專利申請程序。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
