中文摘要 
近年來因為基礎生物分子研究的蓬勃發展，相關生物分子應用科技上有愈來愈多的研
究成果發表，其中利用生物體內之分子馬達來擷取生物能源亦引起廣泛的注意。因為體內
環境(in vivo)與體外環境(in vitro)的不同，生物分子馬達的運作模式亦會有所不同，如何有效
的於體外環境中運用生物分子馬達即成為重要並值得深入探討的課題之一。 
本計畫針對運輸蛋白(Kinesin)及微管(Microtubule)這一組生物分子馬達，建構其於奈
微米流體管道中的運動模型並依據此一模型提出相關奈微米流體管道的設計準則。於細胞
體內環境，微管為一固定之軌道而運輸蛋白可沿著微管進行運動，有別於體內環境的運作，
應用於奈微米流體管道時，運輸蛋白為固定於元件表面而微管則於運輸蛋白上移動，本計畫
以對微管機械性質的瞭解為基礎、統計力學為工具，先以理論分析的方式來建構微管的移
動模型，並針對微管於奈微米製程元件中移動時受到奈微米流體管道形狀的影響進行進一
步的分析並與現有之實驗結果驗證後確認此一模型之正確性。此模型的建立不但可以提供生
物分子馬達相關應用的奈微米流體管道之設計準則，更可以此一模型為基礎對於在不同的外
在環境下，諸如電場或流場，微管的運動方式提供有效的分析工具，以增進生物分子馬達
於不同應用層面的發展。 
 
關鍵字：運輸蛋白、微管、生物分子馬達、奈微米流體管道 
報告內容： 
Introduction 
Active intracellular transportation is accomplished by motor protein transforming chemical 
energy stored in ATP into kinetic energy from its aqueous working environment directly.  
Among various biomolecular motors, conventional kinesin holds significant potential for 
nano-scale actuation applications because it is compact, efficient (~ 50%), and moves robustly in 
vitro.1-2  It generates linear, stepwise motion along microtubules (a filamentous cytoskeletal 
polymer) toward their plus-end by utilizing hand-over mechanism of its two motor domain.3-5 
 
Utilizing kinesin motility in vitro, alternative micro-scale actuation mechanism with high 
reliability and energy efficiency can be implemented.  To realize such a microscopic actuation 
driven by nanoscopic motor proteins, we should learn the method evolved from the nature 
mechanism, organizing highly ordered arrays of motor proteins to harness cooperative force.  
Since the kinesin directionality is defined by microtubule polarities, several methods have been 
proposed to align microtubules direction in vitro. 6-9 One of these strategies is designing 
microfabricated open channels to create directional microtubule movement by sidewalls’ physical 
confinement.10-11 These works have described microtubule orientation methods and experimental 
results.  However, there is no quantitative analysis of channel geometry assisted orientation 
method performed from micro-structural design point of view.  It is necessary to understand the 
insight of microtubule gliding behavior in mirofabricated open channel to optimize conditions for 
further applications.  More specific, the total number of microtubules that can be self-sorted at 
steady state is determined by the geometrical design of channels that affects the microtubule 
landing and lifting inside channels.  To construct microtubule tracks used for cooperative 
transportation system, it is important to understand the landing and lift-off processes of 
microtubules inside microfabricated channels.  Clemmens12-13 presented the microtubule guiding 
analysis on microfabricated kinesin coated surface.  But there is no in-depth theory accounting 
for the physical interaction between microtubules and fabricated channels in connection to these 
processes.  
 
To present systematic understanding, this work develops statistical models that allow us to 
predict the effect of the channel design on the ability of collecting and retaining microtubles 
inside microfabricated open channels.  The experiments that validate the established model will 
also be presented.  Based on this work, we will deliver basic design chart of constructing active 
transportation systems driven by motor proteins. 
 
Statistical Model of Microtubules Moving in Channel.  The major difference of microtubule 
gliding behavior between bare glass and micro-fabricated glass is the structure topography that 
affects microtubules landing and moving.  With non-motility structure surface, the 
micro-engineered structure functions as obstacle that prevents microtubules landing and gliding 
across it.  To understand microtubules gliding behavior in micro-fabricated channel, statistical 
model is used to model the interaction between microtubules and non-motile channel sidewalls. 
 
Microtubule Landing Probability Model.  In normal gliding assay, microtubules diffuse to glass 
surfaces which are coated with kinesin.  As a consequence, microtubules are captured by 
functional kinesin and start to be transported by kinesin on the glass surface.  Since this 
procedure is determined by diffusion and kinesin functionality, it will be affected by surface 
topography with motility contrast.  Since microtubule’s persistence length is several mm and the 
microtubule length typically is around 10 µm, it can be treated as an elastic circular beam during 
diffused process.  As microtubule approaching to micro-fabricated surface, the sidewall without 
kinesin functionality will be the obstacle that prevents microtubule diffusing into channel bottom 
surface.   In other words, the microtubule accepted angle of channel bottom surface is limited 
by the geometry of CYTOP sidewalls.  To model the microtubule landing process in 
( )1 2n , ,
2 / 2
0 0
2 sin
100%
n sin
nf r r x
d d
p
d d
π π
θ θ φ
θ θ φ
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟×⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠= ×
×
∑ ∫∫
∫ ∫
   (3) 
 
The theoretical landing ratio p indicates the microtubule landing probability in microfluidic 
channels compared to normal gliding assay without channel confinements.  The higher the 
theoretical landing ratio means the higher microtubule landing probability in micro channels. 
 
Microtubule Guiding Probability Model.  As microtubules colliding with CYTOP sidewalls, 
the microtubule will be bent by CYTOP sidewalls as approaching to sidewalls.  As the 
consequence, it might be bent up and pushed away from the surface (lifting) or bent side, caught 
by next functional kinesin, and continuously moved on the glass surface.  During this bending 
process, the major energy difference is the bending energy generated by microtubules compliant 
to sidewalls and the microtubule moving direction follows energetic favorite path.  Therefore, 
the thermal fluctuation determines the next step direction of microtubules before binding to next 
available functional kinesin.  As one microtubule hit the sidewall, the initial bending direction 
also determines its following moving direction.  At this stage, the bending energy is the only 
energy difference in different scenarios under thermal equilibrium situation.  Utilizing statistical 
mechanics, this bending energy can be used to calculate the probability of different microtubule 
bending scenarios and determine the microtubule moving direction.  More specific, the bending 
energy can be substituted into the Boltzman energy distribution to predict reguiding probability. 
 
 
Figure 2.  The notation of the microtubule lift-off model as microtubule hitting sidewalls.  To 
simplify the condition, kinesin was assumed to be uniform distribution across the glass surface 
and there is no kinesin on the sidewall.  As incident angle θ becomes larger, it needs larger 
energy to bend microtubules along y axis so that the adjacent kinesin can catch the microtubule.   
 
Assume microtubules are elastic beams with circular cross section and the channel sidewall is 
perpendicular to the channel bottom surface.  Then the bending energy can be obtained as  
 
2
2
EIU
l
α=          (4) 
 
where / sin rl d d θ= +  is the microtubule bending length that can be determined by the distance 
between adjacent kinesin, d. EI = 8.02×10-24 N-m2  is the flexural rigidity of microtubules14, and 
α represents the bending angle.  Based on the geometrical assumption, α can be calculated as  
 
 ( )1cos cos sin / 2r rα φ π θ− ⎡ ⎤= − −⎣ ⎦       (5) 
 
Table 1.  Experimental result of microtubule landing in different channel width.  The average 
landing number of microtubule was calculated from the microtubule total landing number divided 
by the total area of channels and observation time.  The average landing ratio was used to 
validate the comparison and it was defined as the ratio of the average landing number in channels 
to average landing number in reference area. 
Channel width  3µm(N=6) 5µm(N=6) 10µm(N=5) 20µm(N=3) Reference area 
Average landing 
microtubules  
(number/µm2/minute 
± STD) 
0.001462 
±0.00045 
0.001751 
±0.000633
0.002456 
±0.000832 
0.002663 
±0.000978 
0.003697 
±0.00089 
Average landing 
ratio (%) 
(compared to 
reference) 
37.89 45.11 62.37 73.73 100 
 
Microtubule Landing Experiments. As a measurement of how well channels accept microtubules 
landing, we recorded the number of landing microtubules in both reference area (200 µm by 200 
µm) and microfabricated open channels with different channel width, 3, 5, 10, and 20 µm.  To 
examine the ability of microtubule collection, the average microtubule landing number was 
counted in different channels within 5 minutes to 25 minutes after microtubule injection.  The 
effect of channel widths can be revealed by landing ratio, which was defined as the ratio of the 
microtubule landing number in channel to the microtubule landing number in reference area.  To 
observe the landing behavior affected by channel geometry experimentally, channels with 1.5 µm 
high sidewalls, 115 µm length, and different width were tested for their ability to accept 
microtubule landing.  The experimental result can be shown as Table 1.  All the landing 
experimental results were counted in unit area and unit time.  In other words, the average 
microtubule landing number was calculated from total landing number dividing by channel area 
and recording time period.  It is clearly that the average landing ratio is increasing as the channel 
width increasing.     
 
  To have effective comparison between theoretical predictions and experimental results, the 
average microtubule length was counted in reference area of each experimental data point and 
used to normalize the channel width and sidewall height.  In model predictions established 
above, the landing ratio is increasing as the channel width increasing as shown in Figure 3 A.  In 
experiment results, it shows similar curve as model predictions.  The comparison of the model 
prediction and experimental result is shown as Figure 3 B.  This result demonstrated the basic 
channel design parameter, width, which affected microtubule collection ability.  Since we didn’t 
consider other effects caused by channel sidewall surface such as hydrophobicity, the theoretical 
prediction is slightly higher than experimental results.   
 
 
Figure 4. (A) The reguiding probability predicted by statistical mechanical model with different 
distance between uniform distributed functional kinesin.  (B) NKHK560cys experimental results 
compared to model prediction.   The kinesin distant used in theoretical curve is 200nm.  It 
should be noted that the theoretical curve of 50nm kinesin distance is nearly 100% no matter 
which incident angle of microtubules. 
 
Conclusion.  Microtubule landing and lifting models were established and experimentally 
examined in this study.  Previous work underestimated geometrical effects generated by 
microfabricated channels.  These effects can cause the number of microtubule in the channel is 
insufficient to form continuous tracks for micro-scale transportation.  In presenting work, both 
of the statistical mechanics models and experimental results gave us insights of the microtubule 
moving behavior in vitro.   Based on this work, engineering design guidelines of microtubule 
tracks used to assemble cooperative motor proteins can be established and engineered 
micro-devices driven by biomolecular motors will be able to be implemented. 
 
Reference 
(1) Vale, R.D.; Schnapp B.J.; Reese T.S.; Sheetz M.P., Cell. 1985, 40, 449-454. 
(2) Brady, S.T., Nature 1985, 317, 73-75. 
(3) Yildiz, A.; Tomishige, M.; Vale, R.D.; Selvin P.R., Science 2004, 303, 676-678. 
(4) Asbury, C.L., Fehr, A.N., Block, S.M., Science 2003, 302, 2130-2134. 
(5) Howard, J., Nature. 1997, 389, 561-567. 
(6) Hiratsuka, Y. et al.,  Biophysical Journal  2001, 81,1555-1561. 
(7) Moorjani, S.G.; et al.,  Nano Letters 2003, 3, n5, 633-637. 
(8) Limberis, L.; Magda, J. J.; Stewart, R.J. Nano Letters 2001, 1, 277-280. 
(9) Yokokawa, R.; et al., . Nano Letters 2004, 4, n11, 2265-2270. 
(10) Clemmens, J., et al., Lab Chip 2004, 4, 83-86. 
(11) Jia, L., et al., Biomedical Microdevices 2004, v6, n1, 67-74. 
(12) Clemmens, J., et al., Langmuir 2003, v19, 1738-1744. 
(13) Clemmens, J., et al.,  Langmuir 2003, v19, 10967-10974. 
(14) Venier, P., et al.,  J. of Biological Chem. 1994, 269, n18, 13353-13360. 
(15) Howard, J. Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton, 2001, 61. 
(16) Gittes, F.; Mickey, B.; Nettleton, J.; Howard, J. J. Cell Biol. 1993, 120, 923-934 
