中文摘要 
氮化物藍光/紫外光Fabry-Perot雷射可應用在DVD 的光源上，是目前半導體雷射研究
的焦點。氮化物半導體成長在氧化鋁基板上時，其晶格方向互相垂直，無法由基板劈裂方
式形成端面反射鏡，因此乾蝕刻方式普遍用來製備雷射端面反射鏡，但乾蝕刻產生的粗糙
表面與鏡面的垂直偏斜，將造成光子的嚴重損失進而影響光電特性，如起振電流密度偏高
與效率偏低。 
本計畫利用微劈裂製程，來產生垂直的自然劈裂端面反射鏡。含有氮化物半導體結構
的微懸臂由微影製程定義，以光電化學作做垂直蝕刻直至基板，其下的半導體基板材料再
使用酸液將其蝕刻掏空，目的是將半導體懸臂與矽基板完全分離。在懸臂近固定端蝕刻一
個小缺口有助於應力集中，並降低劈裂所需施加的機械外力。微劈裂製造的劈裂面較之傳
統直接劈裂藍寶石基板的方式可得到較平滑的鏡面，有潛力勝過現有乾蝕刻技術所能達到
的極限。此一技術可適用於光電積體電路元件製造或新穎的氮化物半導體雷射。 
關鍵詞: 
光化學蝕刻，微劈裂，氮化物半導體 
 
Abstract 
GaN based blue/UV Fabry-Perot lasers draw research interest for their application for DVD 
light source. The crystal planes of c-face III-nitride semiconductors does not parallel to those of 
the sapphire substrates. Dry etched facet mirrors are popular for nitride lasers because of the 
lacking of naturally cleaved facets. However, sidewall mirrors suffer loss of photons due to 
scattering by surface roughness in the nanometer range and non-vertical inclined angles. The 
resonance characteristics of a Fabry-Perot resonator such as threshold current density and slope 
efficiency will be drastically affected if both end reflectors are un-parallel. 
A micro-cleaving approach utilizing photo enhance electrochemical etch (PEC) technique was 
utilized in this project to create smooth vertical facet mirrors. Nitride semiconductor suspension 
structures were defined by photolithography, followed by PEC vertical until the substrate was 
exposed. Isotropic wet acid etch was used to create lateral undercuts underneath the patterned 
features. The defined nitride features were isolated from the substrate completely. The suspended 
cantilevers fabricated were broken by applying mechanic forces. Small notches were made near 
the fixed end of the hung structures to facilitate the micro-cleaving process by concentrated stress. 
The cleaved surface will follow the crystallographic direction of the nitride and the roughness 
will be minimized. Monolithically integrated lasers or optoelectronic devices can be implemented 
on nitride semiconductor system through this approach. 
Keywords: 
photo enhanced electrochemical etch, micro-cleaving , III-nitride semiconductors 
 
Background 
Sapphire has been the most popular substrate used for GaN growth due to desirable physical 
properties such as hardness, thermal and chemical stability, and optical transparency. The 
availability of low price, high quality substrate crystals with large diameter, and the ease of 
substrate preparation are important reasons for choosing sapphire as a substrate. However, c-face 
  A silicon etchant solution (HF:HNO3:CH3COOH=3:5:3) was used to isotropically etch Si 
substrate. The suspended arms were formed when the silicon underneath the designed selective 
areas. The cantilevers were micro-cleaved by mechanical method and the cleaved facets were 
created at the designed position. Fig.2 illustrates the process flow used. 
 
 
 
Fig.2 (a) Define ridge structure. (b) Pattern cantilever structure and etch down to GaN 
buffer layer. (c) Undercut tch down to sapphire substrate. (d) Micro-cleaving. 
 
Results and discussion 
Fig.3 shows the SEM picture of the nitride laser facet mirror fabricated by cleaving sapphire 
substrate which is also commonly used in industry [4]. The ridge area shows inclined irregular 
lines and the bottom area of the nitride material shows vertical like lines. The overall roughness 
of the cleaved facets is not good. Fig. 4 is the suspended structure before cleavage. Fig.5 shows 
the GaN micro-cleaved facets with improved roughness. Although the density of the vertical lines 
at the bottom region is higher, the top region shows smooth surface. The X-ray diffraction study 
indicated a high dislocation density, 1.7x1010cm2. Grain features are observed on the top surface. 
Defects might be the cause for the vertical and inclined lines observed on the cleaved surface. 
The overall surface shows mirror like smooth surface which is much better than the facet 
fabricated by traditional methods. 
 
Self evaluation 
  We have successfully demonstrated that the micro-cleavage approach can be applied on 
hetero-epitaxy nitride materials. The results have been published in “2007 物理年會”. This 
approach can be easily integrated with nitride semiconductor laser process. A patent application 
has been filed based on the technologies developed by this project. We would like to 
acknowledge the financial support by National Science Council. 
Publications 
1. 張益逞、陳偉立,”利用光電化學蝕刻製作氮化鎵劈裂面研究”, 2007物理年會, PB-57. 
2. 陳偉立,”製作氮化物半導體元件中劈裂鏡面之方法”, 中華民國專利申請案號 96102229. 
3. J. J. Shiu, W. L. Chen, D. Y. Lin, C. S. Yang and W. C. Chou, “Photoluminescence 
characterization of type Ⅱ Zn0.97Mn0.03Se/ZnSe0.92Te0.08 multiple-quantum-well 
structures”, accepted for publication, Japan. J. Appl. Phys., 2007.  
4. J. D. Hwang, C. C. Lin, and W. L. Chen, “Electrical properties of sputtered-indium tin oxide 
film contacts on n-type GaN”, J. Appl. Phys., Vol. 100, pp.044908, 2006.  
5. Y. L. Chu, Y. J. Lin, C. H. Ho, and W. L. Chen, “Improvement of Ni Nonalloyed Ohmic 
Contacts on p-GaN Films by Changing Thickness of p-InGaN Capping Layers”, Japan. J. 
Appl. Phys., Vol.45, pp.6884, 2006. 
 
References 
[1] US patent 6379985. 
[2] M. Kneissl, D. P. Bour, N. M. Johnson, L. T. Romano, B. S. Krusor, R. Donaldson, J. Walker, 
and C. Dunnrowicz, “Characterization of AlGaInN diode lasers with mirrors from chemically 
assisted ion beam etching”, Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol.72, p.1539, 1998. 
[3] A. Behfar, A. T. Schremer, J. Hwang, C. Stagaresu, F. Khaja, V. Vainateya, A. J. Morrow, 
“Progress in etched facet technology for GaN and blue lasers”, Photonics West, 6473-43, 
2007. 
[4] US patent 7149233. 
[5] M. Kneissl, D. Hofstetter, D. P. Bour, R. Donaldson, J. Walker, and N. M. Johnson, 
“Dry-etching and characterization of mirrors on III-nitride laser diodes from chemically 
assisted ion beam etching”, J. Cryst. Growth, Vol.189/190, p.846, 1998. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 參加會議經過 
本人此次出席2006年International Conference on Solid State Devices and Materials，以下簡稱
SSDM 2006，該會議是屬於大型的國際學術研討會，共分成十一個子領域，分別是(1) Advanced 
Gate Stack/Si Processing Science、 
(2) Characterization and Materials Engineering for Interconnect Integration、(3) CMOS Devices/Device 
Physics、(4)Advanced Memory Technology、(5)Advanced Circuits and Systems、(6)Compound 
Semiconductor Circuits, Electron Devices and Device Physics、(7)Photonic Devices and Device 
Physics、(8)Advanced Material Synthesis and Crystal Growth Technology、(9)Physics and Applications 
of Novel Functional Materials and Devices、(10)Organic Materials Science, Device Physics, and 
Applications、(11)Micro/Nano Electromechanical and Bio-Systems (Devices)。敝人的論文是在Area 
8，以”Advanced Material Synthesis and Crystal Growth Technology” 為探討主題，每年舉行一次。
會議地點在日本橫濱(Yokohama)的橫濱國際會議中心(Pacifico Yokohama)舉行，會議時間從9月13
日至9月15日。敝人9月12日由桃園中正機場搭乘班機出發至東京轉搭火車到橫濱，回程9月16日
亦由成田機場搭乘班機返台。  
本屆SSDM 2006研討會出席的各國專家學者以美國、德國、英國、日本、韓國、新加坡、台
灣、大陸等國為大宗約600餘人，收錄的論文約500餘篇，分為口頭報告與壁報張貼方式進行，分
成十個子會議講堂進行，壁報論文之討論於第二天下午進行，議程規劃請參考相關網站
( http://www.ssdm.jp/index.html)。敝人主要參與Area 8 session，探討寬能隙II-VI 族半導體材料之
磊晶成長、特性分析與應用。由光激光譜分析確認Zn0.97Mn0.03Se/ZnSe0.92Te0.08多重量子井的能帶
結構為第二型，比對薛丁格方程式的解與實驗結果發現∆Ev=0.6eV，載子清空之活化能則由變溫
光激光譜資料算出，改變光激發強度發現在高激發時窄的電子井有明顯較大的藍位移則與能帶填
充與能帶傾斜效應有關。在海報展出時與來自日本、韓國、美國、歐盟等國的學者就此一新穎半
導體材料的研究交換研究心得，獲益甚豐。 
 
2. 與會心得  
與會的各國專家學者在人數方面因地緣的因素以日本、韓國、新加坡、台灣、大陸等國為最
多，其中不乏研究成果相當傑出的著名學者，例如德國University of Ulm 的E. Kohn教授，E. Kohn
教授在高速場效電晶體及氮化物材料與元件方面的研究在國際上享有相當的盛名，此次以” 
Diamond and GaN-Based Electronics” 受邀發表演說，除了發表以達到100V的AlGaN/GaN異質接面
場效電晶體外，該研究團隊以其在半導體材料與元件方面的研究專長，成功的將boron delta dope
攙雜進Diamond，由於鑚石結構不像氮化物具有極性，因此沒有表面施子的問題，E. Kohn教授發
表的結果顯示，以鑚石為材料的高速高功率場效電晶體具有潛力與氮化物材料競爭，獲得相關領
域與會學者的熱烈關注。 
目前任教於德國的K. H. Ploog受邀報告的主題是“GaN Quantum Dots, Quantum Wires and 
Quantum Discs with Novel Optoelectronic Properties”，K. H. Ploog在Paul Drude Institute for Solid 
State Electronics以電漿輔助分子束磊晶成長技術生長氮化鎵量子結構，使用Si(111)基板於其上生
長AlGaN量子線，藉控制鎵分子束開關成功於量子線上形約25nm寬的量子餅結構。與相同組成分
的量子井比較，螢光光譜分析顯示的量子餅藍位移光譜暗示此新穎量子結構幾乎沒有應力，如製
成發光元件可預期會有高發光效率。 
 
 
 
Photoluminescence characterization of type Ⅱ  
Zn0.97Mn0.03Se/ZnSe0.92Te0.08 multiple-quantum-well structures 
 
J. J. Shiu1, W. L. Chen1, D. Y. Lin*1, C. S. Yang2 and W. C. Chou2
 
1Department of Electronic Engineering, National Changhua University of Education 
1, Jin De Road, Paisha Village, Changhua 500, Taiwan, R. O. C. 
2Institute and Department of Electrophysics, National Chiao-Tung University 
1001, Ta Hsueh Road, Hsinchu 300, Taiwan, R. O. C. 
 
The optical characterization of type  ZnⅡ 0.97Mn0.03Se/ZnSe0.92Te0.08 multiple-quantum-well structures have been studied using 
photoluminescence（PL）, temperature-dependent PL, and power-dependent PL in this study. The PL data reveal that the band alignment of 
the ZnMnSe/ZnSeTe multiple-quantum-wells (MQWs) is type . Ⅱ Comparing with the theoretical calculation based on solving the 
Schrodinger equation of square potential well, the valence band offset is estimated to be 0.6 eV. Form the power-dependent PL spectra, it is 
observed that the peak position of PL spectra shows a blueshift under different excitation power. The blueshift can be interpreted in terms 
of the band-bending effect due to spatially separated carriers in a type  alignment and band filling effect.Ⅱ  The thermal activation energy
（EA）for quenching the PL intensity was determined from temperature-dependent PL spectra. The thermal activation energy was found to 
decrease as the thickness of ZnMnSe or ZnSeTe layers was decreased.  
 
KEYWORDS: Photoluminescence, ZnMnSe, ZnSeTe, Thermal activation energy, Multiple quantum well 
 
 
1. Introduction 
Wide-gap Ⅱ-Ⅵ semiconductor-related materials have attracted much interest because of their potential for using as a 
variety of photonic devices, e.g., photodetectors and light sources for the UV, blue and green spectral region.1, 2) Currently 
spintronics has also drawn a lot of attention owing to its potential application in quantum computation, as well as the 
interesting physical properties of its building materials. A number of spin-polarized devices, such as spin transistors, spin 
memory devices, and spin quantum computers, have been proposed.3, 4) In order to develop or optimize the function of the 
devices, it is necessary to have a comprehensive understanding of the physical properties of the building materials and 
structures. In type II quantum well structures the electrons and holes are confined in different constituent materials, which 
results in a limited penetration of the carrier wave functions into the neighboring layers. Therefore, the spatially indirect 
transitions arise from the electron-hole wave function overlap only within an extremely narrow region adjacent to the 
interface and provide a unique structure for the optical study of interface-related phenomena. In this paper, we present the 
interesting optical properties of ZnMnSe/ZnSeTe multiple-quantum-wells (MQWs) with different thickness of the electron 
or hole wells using various photoluminescence (PL) technologies including conventional PL, temperature-dependent PL and 
power-dependent PL measurements. For MQW structures it is expected that a narrow well width will result in a high energy 
of quantized state confined in the well region. It is possible to study the MQW structure through investigating their optical 
transitions by PL. Comparing the experimental results of conventional PL measurements with the theoretical calculations 
based on solving the Schrodinger equation of square potential well, the valence band offset was estimated. In addition, the 
thermal activation energy (EA) for quenching the PL intensity with varying well width was determined from the 
temperature-dependent PL spectra.5) In power-dependent PL spectra, a giant blueshift of the PL peak energy was found and 
explained by the band-bending and band-filling effects.6) Based on these experimental results, a square potential well with 
depth of 0.6 eV in the valence band and a triangle-like well in the conduction band were proposed.  
 
2. Experimental details 
For this study, the six samples, grown on GaAs substrates by molecular beam epitaxy (MBE), were separated into two 
sets. On top of the GaAs substrate, a 220 nm ZnSe buffer layer followed by ten periods of Zn1-xMnxSe/ZnSe1-yTeyMQWs 
were grown. Where Mn concentration, x, and Te concentration, y, have been determined by energy dispersive X-ray 
measurements on the respective Zn1-xMnxSe and ZnSe1-yTey epilayers. In this study, the values of x and y are 0.03 and 0.08, 
respectively.7) The MQW structure of the first set of samples, which were designated as A, B, and C, were constructed by 20 
nm thick ZnSeTe layer (W1) and 5, 3, 1 nm thick ZnMnSe layer (W2), respectively. On the other hand, the MQW structure of 
the other set of samples, which were designated as D, E, and F, were built by 20 nm thick ZnMnSe layer (W2) and 5, 3, 1 nm 
thick ZnSeTe layer (W1), respectively.  
In this work various PL technologies including conventional PL, temperature-dependent and power-dependent PL have 
been used to study the optical properties of these samples. The 325 nm line from a He-Cd laser was used for the excitation 
source to generate carriers in both the ZnSeTe and ZnMnSe layers. The luminescence from the specimen was dispersed 
through a PTI monochromator with f = 25 cm and was detected by a photomultiplier tube. The spectral resolution was 2 
meV, which is sufficient for these measurements. For temperature-dependent PL measurements over the range of 10 to 70 K, 
samples were mounted on the cold finger of a CTI-Cryogenics closed-cycle He cryostat. For power-dependent PL 
measurements, the exciting power was controlled by neutral density filters and varied from 0.5 to 15 mW.  
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
-0.02
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
0.16
0.18
0.20
0.22
 VV = 0.2 eV
 VV = 0.3 eV
 VV = 0.4 eV
 VV = 0.5 eV
 VV = 0.6 eV
 Exp.
 
 
Bl
ue
sh
ift
 (e
V
)
ZnSe0.92Te0.08 thickness (nm)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Solid lines are the calculated results of blueshift referred to the PL peak energy of sample D as a function of ZnSeTe thickness and 
in different values of valence band offset Vv. The solid squares are the experimental data. 
 
From the power-dependent PL spectra shown in Fig. 4, it is observed that the peak position of PL spectra shows a 
blueshift under different excitation power. This effect can be interpreted in terms of the band-bending due to the spatially 
photoexcited carriers in a type-Ⅱ alignment, in which electrons are accumulated in the triangle-like well located in ZnMnSe 
layers and holes are localized in the ZnSeTe layers. Because increasing the excitation power makes the band-banding effect 
more pronounced, the accumulated electrons and holds will be confined in a narrower region near the interface. Thus an 
increase in the excitation density raises the steepness of the confining potential, therefore, the electron quantization energy is 
increased and the blueshift is occurred. Another possible contribution is band-filling effect. The narrow triangle-like electron 
well resulting from the accumulated electron in the interface will be filled with more electrons as an intense laser light is 
applied on its surface. The PL signal origins from the recombination of electrons confined in the triangle-like well and holes 
located close to the interface. Therefore, A large number of photo-excited electron enhances the PL feature with a broaden 
spectrum and makes a blueshifted PL peak. This result gives a consistent evidence for the observation in Fig. 1. It is 
proposed that the PL signal comes from the recombination of electrons localized in a triangle-like well near the interface and 
holes confined in a square well in different materials. Because the triangle-like well possesses only a part of the electron well, 
it is possible that the triangle-like well is almost not changed when the thickness of ZnMnSe decreases from 5 to 3 nm. A 
small change on the triangle-like well might occurred when the thickness of ZnMnSe is further decreased from 3 to 1 nm. 
Therefore only a small blueshift in the PL spectra is observed.  
1.9 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3
↑
↑
↑
↑
↑
↑
↑
↑
↑
↑
Sample C @ 15 K
x5
x3
x3
x3
x3
 
 
PL
 In
te
ns
ity
 (a
. u
.)
Photon Energy (eV)
 
 
0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8
2.120
2.122
2.124
2.126
2.128
2.130
2.132
2.134
2.136
2.138
2.140
2.142
 Experiment
 Fit
Sample C
 
 
PL
 P
ea
k 
Po
sit
io
n 
(e
V
)
(Power)1/3 (mW)1/3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 PL spectra of sample C under different exication power at 
15 K. 
Fig. 5 Dependence PL peak energy on the cubic root of excitation 
power for sample C at 15 K.
 
Figure 5 shows the relation between the PL peak position and the third root of the excitation power for sample C. The 
electron quantization energy is expected to increase proportionally with the third root of the excitation density.6) It indicates 
that the giant blueshift is indeed a peculiar property of the type-II MQW structure. Table I lists the amount of blueshift in 
power-dependent PL spectra measured between the maximum and minimum excitation density for all samples. For samples 
D, E and F, corresponding to the same electron well width 20 nm, an almost identical blueshift is observed. When the 
thickness of the electron well material in sample A is decrease to 5 nm then the blueshift is increased to 10 meV. As the 
thickness of electron well material is further decreased to 1 nm then the blueshift reached up to 17 meV that is close to twice 
The integrated PL intensity are calculated and shown in Fig. 7 by square symbols. As the temperature 
increases above 20 K, a gradual attenuation in PL intensity is observed. The thermal activation energy (EA) 
for quenching the PL intensity can be determined by  
( )
1 exp
O
PL
A
B
I
I T
EA
k T
= ⎛ ⎞−+ ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
 …… (1) 
where T is the temperature, kB is the Boltzmann constant, I0 is the integrated PL intensity near 0 K, A is a 
constant. These measured values of integrated PL intensity were fitted using eq. (1) and the thermal 
activation energy EA of the MQW structures was obtained. The temperature-induced PL quenching of 
luminescence in the MQW structures mainly due to the fact that the charge carrier escapes from confined 
well into barriers followed by a nonradiative recombination. Figure 8 presents the activation energies for 
samples A to F. For samples A, B and C, electrons are confined in ZnMnSe layers with various thickness of 
5, 3, and 1 nm, respectively. As we have seen in Fig. 1, the PL spectra of samples A and B show a very 
small blueshift. The activation energies of samples A (16.3 meV) and B (15.1 meV) also show a close 
value. As the thickness of ZnMnSe layers decreases to 1 nm, the activation energy of sample C also 
decreases to 10.6 meV. For samples D, E and F, a similar trend showing that lower activation energy 
corresponds to a smaller thickness of ZnSeTe layers is observed. These results indicate that the mechanism 
of the PL quenching is the thermal emission of charge carriers (electrons or holes) out of confined 
quantum-well states into barriers. 
 
 
\ 
 
 
 
 
1 2 3 4 5
5
10
15
20
 Sample A, B, C
 Sample D, E, F
 
 
A
ct
iv
at
io
n 
En
er
gy
 (m
eV
)
Layer Thickness of ZnMnSe or ZnSeTe (nm)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 The thermal activation energy determined from temperature-dependent PL spectra for samples A to F. 
 
4. Conclusions 
We have performed the optical characterizations of ZnMnSe/ZnSeTe MQW structures using PL, 
excitation power- and temperature-dependent PL measurements. From PL measurements, it was observed 
that the band alignment of the ZnMnSe/ZnSeTe MQWs is type Ⅱ. When valence band offset is 0.6 eV, the 
theoretical calculation matches well with the experimental data. Based on this, we propose that the valance 
band in the ZnMnSe/ZnSeTe type II MQW structures are square wells. A large amount of blueshift is 
observed in power-dependent PL measurements. This effect can be interpreted in terms of the effect of 
band-bending due to the spatially photo-excited carriers in a type-Ⅱ MQW alignment and band-filling 
effect. In the temperature-dependent PL spectra, the activation energy tended to decrease as the thickness of 
ZnMnSe and ZnSeTe layers is decreased. The thermal activation energy that is responsible for quenching 
the PL intensity is determined.  
Acknowledgements 
  
1.8 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4



@ 15K
2.124 eV
2.072 eV
2.07 eV
Sample C (W
2
=1nm)
Sample B (W
2
=3nm)
Sample A (W
2
=5nm)
PL
In
te
ns
ity
(a
.u
.)
Photon Energy (eV)
1.6 1.8 2.0 2.2 2.4 2.6


 x15
@ 15K
2.282 eV
2.14 eV
2.084 eV
Sample E (W
1
=1nm)
Sample D (W
1
=5nm)
Sample E (W
1
=3nm)
PL
In
te
ns
it
y
(a
.u
.)
Photon Energy (eV)
 Zn0.97Mn0.03Se/ZnSe0.92Te0.08 MQWs grown by MBE
Type II band alignment under the
influence of band-bending effect.
Electrons are confined in the ZnMnSe
layer and holes are localized in the
ZnSeTe layer. The photoluminescence
is generated from the overlapping of
the electron and hole wave function
and then the recombination of
accumulated electrons and holes at the
interface.
The PL peak energies are less than the energy gaps of either Zn0.97Mn0.03Se or ZnSe0.92Te0.08 materials.
Therefore these PL signals provide the evidence of type II quantum well transitions occurred in our MQWs.
Semiconductor Devices and Materials characterization Lab.
National Changhua University of Education
