創造跨越邊界之知識服務創新與創業機會 - 以國際化之資通業為例 
中文摘要 
創新與創業精神是開發中與已開發經濟體成長的核心。新近的一系列研究顯示創業知識是
散佈在不同的時、地與人員上，且經由知識擴散與溢出( knowledge diffusion and spillover) 
機制傳送。在新經濟之技術與市場之全球化及多樣性之趨勢下，使得跨邊界之技術創業格
外受到重視。 
本計畫之目的在於透過資訊通訊為基礎之知識服務產業案例，檢視存在於跨國際邊界技術
創業的動態過程中的組織知識網路能促成機會辨認與組織創新之策略，藉以達到創造價值
的目的。創新可被視為是因應外在環境變化所進行之組織領域之擴充及知識實體轉化活
動。過去對於跨國際邊界創業的相關研究，普遍著重於生產與製造之單一產業，而對服務
業及跨產業間之比較研究卻顯少著墨。因此，本計畫擬從資訊通訊知識服務業的多個案中，
比較與探討如何利用技術與市場不確定性，以組織創新配合市場機會，進而衍生出管理創
新，創造其高度價值。 
本計畫選擇資訊通訊為基礎之知識服務業個案包括積體電路設計與數位內容服務業作深入
個案研究。呈現這些個案豐富之知識資產創造與經驗累積，亦顯示業界組織間呈現多樣之
知識實體運作，以及各實體間結合與轉化軌跡及群聚效應為其帶來截然不同以往之機會與
價值創造。因此，本計畫藉由跨產業與跨邊界之個案比較創新機會、驅動力、創業體制與
價值創造的動態過程，提出企業以跨國際邊界組織實體知識創造價值的主要理論與實務意
涵。 
 
關鍵詞：創新與創業精神、國際創業、資訊通訊技術、知識服務業
 1
INTRODUCTION 
Open innovation and entrepreneurship is one of the main drivers for global economic 
growth (Chesbrough, 2003; Christensen, et al 2005). Technical innovation and 
entrepreneurial knowledge base have become more dispersed than ever over the time, 
place, and people. With the general trends toward a great variety of technology and global 
market settings, the need for active research on open, cross-border collaborative 
innovation and entrepreneurship has gain substantial attention.  Entrepreneurship is the 
process by which the opportunities for the creation of markets for new products and 
services are identified, pursued and exploited (Audretsch and Thurik, 2001.) 
Entrepreneurship is recognized as important for value creation (e.g., Amit and Zott, 2001; 
Bruyat and Julien, 2000; Hitt et al., 2002; Kodithuwakku and Rosa, 2002). The 
entrepreneurial firms often conduct two main actions as part of the entrepreneurial process 
to achieve the goal of value creation, i.e., opportunity identification and opportunity 
exploitation (e.g., Hitt and Ireland, 2000; Hitt et al., 2001; Shane and Venkataraman, 2000). 
Other literature indicates that successful identification and exploitation of opportunity is 
based on a firm’s prior knowledge (Ardichvili et al., 2003; Shane, 2000; Kirzner, 1984) and 
draws on its innovation practices (Chakravarthy, 1997; Drucker, 1985; Lumpkin and Dess, 
1996). 
 
Based on our previous studies of systems of innovation and entrepreneurship in Taiwan 
(Hung, Liu and Chu, 2003, Liu, et al, 2004, Liu, et al 2005, Chu and Wu, 2005; Hung and 
Chu, 2005, Chu and Hsu, 2006) we argue that value creation arises from the synthesis of 
entrepreneurial actions and effects of environmental changes. In other words, value 
creation arises not only from the implementation of entrepreneurial actions, but also from 
the build-up of the organization knowledge for recognition and exploitation of the 
opportunities, specifically, in terms of transformational growth in value creation. Indeed, we 
propose that the embedded organization knowledge provides the essence for the new 
ideas and aids in the recognition and exploitation of international cross-border 
entrepreneurial opportunities (Zoltan, et al, 2001; Coviello and Jones, 2004) and providing 
the catalyst for value creation (De Carolis, 2002.) 
 
The underlying basis of the research is on the collaborative ontological integration of 
relationships among organization network boundary spanning, dispersed intellectual 
capital for innovation and entrepreneurial opportunity creation (Mckelvery, 2003; Dew, et al 
2004; Jones and Dimitratos, 2004; Chu and Hsu, 2006).  The study extends the existing 
literature by highlighting the importance of the diversity and complexity management 
(Mckelvey, 2004) of cross-border activities to address the globalization trends and changes 
along with the underlying entrepreneurial actions in providing knowledge services. In 
addition, the important practical findings in this research can contribute to related industrial 
 3
identification upon the cross-border social network. A stated model for combination of 
dispersed intellectual capital to create cross-border innovations is depicted in Figure 1.  
 
Previous cross-border collaborative innovation and entrepreneurship studies have largely 
been characterized as static, cross-sectional, production sector-oriented and a lack of 
service sector and/or comparative research (Jones and Dimiatratos, 2005; Coviello and 
Jones, 2004; Acs, et al, 2001). The characteristics related to the emerging knowledge 
service sectors, the longitudinal aspects and cross-sector comparisons have largely been 
unexplored. For example, prior work in the international entrepreneurship (IE) tradition 
stressed mostly on the judgment-based or purposive sampling also means that the results 
are difficult to generalize. Coviello and Jones (2004) suggested that IE work would benefit 
from a more holistic view and a process or research of series of longitudinal, 
complementary studies rather than static, isolated pieces of work. Jones and Dimitratos 
(2004) indicates that the emerging field is to benefit from building on the various theories 
for a new paradigm with a world view of the complex process of cross border activities.  
 
The ICT-based knowledge service industries in Taiwan were chosen in this study because 
there are many firms in the industries that are successful in cross-border spanning and, 
more importantly, these firms provide the richness of the intellectual and social context. 
Specifically, the rich and dynamic nature of the IC design’s product market come with a 
structured technology patterns and norms evolving over the last decade which allow for 
close examinations on the transformation and clustering effects of the various ontological 
elements afforded by the evolutionary paths of the IC technology systems. This research 
thus expand on the current studies both in the methodology and the scope of the study by 
extending the model and approach to international cross-border cases and cross-industry 
sector study, to expose to different industrial contexts (Andersson, 2004.) The sectors to be 
studied include representative cases in: 1) IC design and services; and 2) digital content 
(DC) design and delivery services. Figure 2 presents the ontology structure for a sample 
case involving the delivering the IC design services. 
 
According to the individual industrial outlook reports (e.g., OCED, 2004-2006), we find a 
high-growth potential with highly volatile performance of the selected knowledge service 
sectors. Observed locally in Taiwan, one the one hand, we find that there are dramatic 
performance changes which are partly due to the technology and market changes, which 
forms many entirely different innovative practices to realize the substantial growth. On the 
other hand, we also find the trends of successive increment of entrepreneurial activities, 
venture initiatives and market opportunities, which parallel with the trends of product and 
technology varieties and revenue growth. Based on the premise of the organizational 
knowledge as socially embedded, this research hence explores how the entrepreneurial 
 5
the firms in order to show the causal relationship among intellectual capital, organizational 
knowledge, and entrepreneurial opportunities (see Figures 1 and 3). This research adopts 
qualitative research using grounded theory (Glaser and Strauss, 1967) to explore the 
successful factors of opportunity recognition and exploitation.  
 
In the field of entrepreneurship, Gartner and Birley (2002) indicated that “many substantive 
issues in entrepreneurship are rarely addressed, and that many of the important questions 
in entrepreneurship can only be asked through qualitative methods and approaches.” In 
addition, Kodithuwakku and Rosa (2002) argue that the nature and impact of 
entrepreneurial process on economic and business success is difficult to assess as there 
are many intervening variables to consider. Hence, in this study, we adopt the 
“appreciative theorizing” approach to discover the entrepreneurial process for successful 
opportunity recognition/exploitation in an iterative fashion using representative samples of 
actors, events, and processes. 
 
These data samples, serving as compelling examples, was chosen because they 
represent successful and emerging entrepreneurial initiatives that engage in exemplified 
opportunity/valuation creation process via a recognizable combination and exchange (see 
Figure 3) and can be used to demonstrate the relationship between intellectual capital, 
organizational knowledge, and opportunity recognition/exploitation. Thus, the case is 
available to extend the theories (Strauss and Corbin, 1998; Yin, 1994) of entrepreneurship 
for value creation. 
 
Given the incomplete information in the data sample relationships, we used focused 
interviews (Merton et al., 1990) and personal correspondence to fill the gap in the historical 
events. We conducted a number of interviews with several staff from each firm, including 
the general manager, director of new business, product manager and the marketing 
managers. A number of the firms’ business customers were also interviewed to fill in the 
missing pieces of the supporting elements on organizational ontology. We then draw on 
the analytical technique of clustering and “time-series” for data analysis (Yin, 1994). Yin 
(1994) proposed this analytical technique to make clear the causal relationship of events in 
a specific period. We thereby inductively identified the theoretical and practical 
contributions underlying the entrepreneurial process and the setting of each of the leading 
knowledge service providers in both industries. 
RESULTS 
Through the comparative case studies of the above two knowledge service sectors, this 
research first clarifies the dynamic transformation process of opportunity and value 
creation, supported by the richness of the intellectual context and clustering effects of the 
 7
relationships. The objective for developing and verifying the model is twofold: 1) to expand 
the concept of organizational ontology further by including intellectual/social capital 
creation process across border, and 2) to gather empirical evidences testify to the 
important role of organizational knowledge on the intellectual capital and the 
entrepreneurial opportunities in an open innovation environment. 
 
With regard to network-based view of venture and entrepreneurship, the content, 
governance and structure of firms’ network relationship are examined. It was observed in 
network-based research in entrepreneurship that dense networks can reinforce trust 
building, strong ties are predictive of early entrepreneurial activity and early linkages and 
legitimating activities affect persistence of entrepreneurial activity (as indicated in  Hoang 
and Antoncic, 2003; Sexenian and Li, 2003;Carayannis and Von Zedtwitz, 2005). It 
appears that the diversity of social network and experience is conducive to the initiatives 
covering the boundary spanning activities. The boundary spanning role of the actors in the 
sample firms link and coordinate an organization with key elements in the external network 
(Scott, 1995; Au and Fukuda, 2002; Daft, 2004.)  For example, as indicated in the key 
linkages in Figure 3, relationally diverse social networks increase the boundary spanning 
activities of expatriates of ICT firms that converge on the local and cross-border DC 
services. 
 
We found that a key to collaboration in the open innovation environment is the collective 
governance of distributed innovation resources (Christensen, et al 2005; Miles, et al 2005; 
Obrecht, 2004; Chesbrough, 2003). Intellectual capital has increasingly been considered a 
valuable intangible asset for start-up firms in opportunity creation, since it provides human 
intellect, structural routines and network of relationships that can lead to competitive 
advantage. For example, in the dynamic market and technology environment the IC design 
industry facing, the types of human team, venture operation routines, and the network 
relationships would affect the creation of new opportunities. Intellectual capital is 
considered to include (1) human capital – the knowledge embedded in the mind of the 
human worker, (2) structural capital – the organization routines of the business, and (3) 
relational capital – the knowledge embedded in the relationships with the outside 
environment (Kogut and Zander, 1992; Edvinson and Sullivan, 1996.) Furthermore, the 
institutional settings of the high-tech environment nurturing the industry are conducive to 
the building up of the social capital important to recognizing and exploiting the 
opportunities (Nahapiet, 1996; Hitt, 2001). Many of the mechanisms that advance the 
entrepreneurial process reside in the continuously evolving cycles of developing 
intellectual capital, organizational knowledge, and opportunities. 
 
DISCUSSION AND CONLUSIONS 
 9
  
Figure 2. Organization ontology for entrepreneurial knowledge generation: 
A Case of IC Design Delivery 
 11
and Peer-to-Peer Tools and Methods for Collaborative Product Development, 
Computers in Industry, 56 (2005), pp. 260-271.  
ise, M. 2004. Lead Market: Country-Specific Be Drivers of the Global Diffusion of 
Big ion paradigm and approach for 
Bo ional learning 
Bo obal: Using 
Bru ntrepreneurship’, 
Ca J. M. 1992. Profiles of product 
Ca
Ch  Turbulence’, Sloan 
Ch e Niche Position – Competition Strategy of 
Ch g Firms: Influence 
Chen, S.-H. 2004. Taiwanese IT Firms’ Offshore R&D in China and the Connection with the 
Ch g and Profiting 
Ch odularity. a Cyclical Model of 
Ch echnologies Cause 
Ch pen 
Ch ucting Collaborative Distributed Objects Sharing on 
Innovations, Research Policy, 33(2004) pp. 997-1018. 
oness, W. J. and Perreault, W. D. 1981. A conceptualizat
the study of innovators. Academy of Management Journal, 24: 68-82. 
ntis, N., Crossan, M., and Hulland, J. 2001. ‘Managing an organizat
system by aligning stocks and flows,’ Journal of Management Studies.  
udreau, M.-C., Loch, K. D., Robey, D., and Staub, D. 1998. Going gl
information technology to advance the competitiveness of the virtual transnational 
organization. Academy of Management Executive, 12(4): 120-128. 
yat, C. and P.-A. Julien, 2000, ‘Defining the Field of Research in E
Journal of Business Venturing, Vol.16, pp.165-180. 
pon, N., Farley, J. U., Lehmann, D. R., and Hulbert, 
innovators among large U.S. manufactures. Management Science, 38: 157-169.  
rayannis, E.G. and von Zedtwitz, M, 2005. Architecting Global-Local Real-Virtual 
Incubator Networks as Catalysts and Accelerators of Entrepreneurship in Transitioning 
and Developing Economies, Technovation. 25(2005) pp. 95-110. 
akravarthy, B., 1997, ‘A New Strategy Framework for Coping with
Management Review, Winter, pp.69-82. 
ang, P.-L. and Tsai, C.-T. 2002. Finding th
Taiwan’s IC Design Industry, Technovation 22 (2002), pp.101-111. 
aston, I. and T. Mangles, 2001, ‘E-commerce and Small UK Accountin
of Marketing Style and Orientation’, Service Industries Journal, Oct, Vol.21, No.4, 
pp.83-99. 
Global Innovation Network, Research Policy, 33(2004) pp. 337-349. 
esbrough, H. 2003 Open Innovation: the New Imperative for Creatin
from Technology. Harvard Business School Press. 
esbrough, H., 2003a. Towards a Dynamics of M
Technological Advance. In: Prencipe, A., Davies, A., Hobday, M. (Eds.), The Business 
of Systems Integration. Oxford University Press. 
ristensen, C. M. 1997. The Innovator’s Dilemma: When New T
Great Firms to Fail. Boston and Massachusetts: Harvard Business School Press. 
ristensen, J.F. Olesen, M.H., and Kjaer, J.S. The Industrial Dynamics of O
Innovation – Evidence from the Transformation of Consumer Electronics, Research 
Policy, 34 (2005) pp. 1533-1549. 
u, Y. and Chien, C. (2005) Constr
the Semantic Web, The 9th World Multi-Conference on Systemics, Cybernetics 
 13
Fer , R. 2002 ‘A cooperative framework for 
Fox, M. S., Barbuceanu, M. and Gruninger, M. 1996. An organisation ontology for 
Ga e evolution of intracorporate domains: 
Gartner, W.B., and S. Birley, 2002, ‘Introduction to the Special Issue on Qualitative 
Glaser, B., 1978, Theoretical Sensitivity, Mill Valley, CA: Sociology Press. 
Glaser, B. G. and Strauss, A. L. 1967. The Discovery of Grounded Theory. Chicago, IL: 
Grant, R.M., 1996. ‘Toward a Knowledge-based Theory of Firms,’ Strategic Management 
Gru Ontology applications and design, Communications of 
Gu 02 Evaluating Ontological Decisions with OntoClean, ACM 
Ha ton: Harvard 
Ha earch-Transfer Problem: The Role of Weak Ties in Sharing 
Hitt, M. and R.D. Ireland, 2000, ‘The Intersection of Entrepreneurship and Strategic 
Hitt, M.A., Ireland, R.D., Camp S.M., and Sexton, D.L., 2001. Guest editors; introduction to 
         
Hitt, M.A., R.D., Ireland, S.M., Camp and D.L., Sexton, 2002, ‘Strategic Entrepreneurship: 
nandez-Breiz, J. T. and Martinez-Bejar
integrating ontology.’ International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, Vol. 56, pp. 
665-720. 
enterprise modeling: preliminary concepts for linking structure and behaviour, 
Computers in Industry, Vol. 29, pp.123-134. 
lunic, D. C. and Eisenhardt, K. M. 1996. Th
Divisional charter losses in high-technology, multidivisional corporations. Organization 
Science, May/June, 7: 255-282. 
Methods in Entrepreneurship Research’, Journal of Business Venturing, Vol.17, 
pp.387-395. 
Aldine. 
Journal, 17(2), pp. 109-123. 
ninger, M. and Lee, J. 2002, 
the ACM, Vol. 45(2) Feb. 
arino, N. and Welty, C. 20
Special Issue on Ontology Applications and Design. 45(2) pp. 61-65 
mel, G. and Prahalad, C. K. 1994. Competing for the future. Bos
Business School Press. 
nsen, M.T. 1999.  ‘The S
Knowledge Across Organizational Subunits,’ Administrative Science Quarterly. 
Management Research’, in Sexton, D.L. and H. Landström, (ed.), Handbook of 
Entrepreneurship, pp.45-63, MA: Blackwell. 
the special issue strategic entrepreneurship: entrepreneurial strategies for wealth 
creation. Strategic Management Journal, 22: 479-491.                             
Integrating Entrepreneurial and Strategic Management Perspectives’, pp.1-16. in Hitt, 
M.A., Ireland, R.D., Camp S.M., and Sexton, D.L. (ed.), Strategic Entrepreneurship: 
Creating a New Mindset, Oxford, MA: Blackwell Publishers. 
 15
pp.135-172. 
pkin, G.T. and G.G., Dess, 2001, ‘Linking Two Dimensions of Entrepreneurial 
Orientation to
Lum
 Firm Performance: The Moderating Role of Environment and Industry 
Mc
 of Systems 
Mc
: Free Press. 
 Journal, 3(1): 1-25. 
133-143. 
 
Mo
view of some recent empirical studies. Research Policy, 3: 220-242. 
ment 
Na
tage in Choo, C.W. and Bontis, N. The Strategic Management 
Nech  
E . 36–56. 
4, No.4, 
Ob
Entrepreneurship, in Data, L. (ed.) Handbook of Research on 
O’C
tion Management, 
Life Cycle’, Journal of Business Venturing, Vol.16, Iss.5, pp. 429-451. 
Kelvey, M., 2003. Changing Boundaries of Innovation Systems: Linking Market Demand 
and Use. In: Prencipe, A., Davies, A., Hobday, M. (Eds.), The Business
Integration. Oxford University Press, Oxford. 
Kelvey, B. 2005. Toward a Complexity Science of Entrepreneurship, Journal of 
Business Venturing, 19 (2004) pp. 313-341. 
Merton, R. K., Fiske, M., and Kendall, P. L. 1990. The Focused Interview: A Manual of 
Problems and Procedures, 2nd ed., New York
Miller, D., and Friesen, P. H. 1982. Innovation in conservative and entrepreneurial firms: 
Two models of strategic momentum. Strategic Management
Miller, K. D. 1993. Industry and country effects on managers’ perceptions of environmental 
uncertainties. Journal of International Business Studies, 24(4): 693-714. 
Milliken, F. J. 1987. Three types of perceived uncertainty about the environment: State, 
effect, and response uncertainty, Academy of Management Review, 12(1): 
Morris, P. 2000. ‘World Wide Work: Globally Distributed Expert Business Services, 
Emerging Industries, Paper 2000-4, Department of Industry, Science and Resource,
Australia. 
wery, D. C. and Rosenberg, N. 1979. The influence of market demand upon innovation: 
A critical re
Nahapiet, J..E. 1996. Managing relationship with global clients: value creation through 
cross-border networks, 16th Annual Conference of the Strategic Manage
Society, Phoenix, AZ 
hapiet, J.E. and Ghoshal S. 2002. Social capital, intellectual capital, and the 
organizational advan
of Intellectual Capital and Organizational knowledge, Oxford. 
es, R., Fikes, R. E., Finin, T., Gruber, T. R., Senator, T. and W. R. Swartout, 1991.
nabling Technology for Knowledge Sharing, AI Magazine 12 (3) pp
Noda, T. and D.J., Collis, 2001, ‘The Evolution of Intra-industry Firm Heterogeneity: 
Insights From a Process Study’, Academy of Management Journal, Vol.4
pp.897-925. 
recht, J. 2004. Entrepreneurial Capabilities: A Resource-based Systemic Approach to 
International 
International Entrepreneurship, Edward Elgar: Cheltenham, Uk. 
onnor, G. C. and Veryzer, R. W. 2001. The nature of market visioning for 
technology-based radical innovation. Journal of Product Innova
18: 231-246. 
 17
imaging. Strategic Management Journal, 21: 1147-1161. 
f Edinburgh. 
king Paper 2003/7) 
of Social Economics, Vol.28, No.9, pp.752-765. 
Zand peed of the Transfer and Imitation 
of Organizational Capabilities,’ Organization Science, 7(1) pp. 76-92, 1995. 
Uschold, M., King, M., Moralee, S. and Zorgios, Y. 1997 The Enterprise Ontology, 
Artificial Intelligence Application Institute (AIAI), University o
Wise, R. and Morrison, D. 2000. Beyond the exchange: The future of B2B. Harvard 
Business Review, November-December: 86-96. 
Wolfl, A. Productivity Growth in Service Industries: An Assessment of Recent Patterns and 
the Role of Measurement, OECD report (STI Wor
Yin, R. K. 1994. Case Study Research: Design and Methods, 2nd Ed. London, CA: Sage. 
Yu, T. F.-L., 2001, ‘Towards a Theory of the Entrepreneurial State’, International Journal 
er, U. and Kogut, B. 1995.  ‘Knowledge and the S
 19
 Chu, Y. and Hsu, W., (2006) Organization Ontology for Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship for Cross-border Knowledge Services in the Globalizing IC Design 
Industries, Portland International Conference on Management of Engineering and 
Technology (PICMET) 2006. 
 
Liu, T., Hung, S, and Chu, Y. Liu, T., Hung, S, and Chu, Y. (2006) Environmental Jolts, 
Entrepreneurial Actions and Value Creation: a Case Study of Trend Micro, 
Technological Forecasting & Social Chang (accepted). 
Chu, Y and Wu, D. Creating Opportunities for Innovation and Entrepreneurship for 
Cross-border Knowledge Services in the Globalizing Digital Content Industries, Paper 
draft to be submitted to International Journal of Technology Management。 
 
 21
策略管理、創業管理、資源管理及科技管理教育與電子化等子題。除了論文
發表，大會並安排了各項研討與交流活動，包括演講及座談。個人參與「創
新管理」議題第五場次之論文發表。該場次除提出研究小組所發展之知識本
體論之發展、利用與擴散之動態模式，並在會場與與會學者專家交流其他各
篇論文提出之重點議題，探討之領域涵蓋知識之創新與分享、知識表達方式、
運作與規則之建立等。在會中並與研討會之主席暨創辦人及會議主持人 Dr. 
Kacaoglu 及 Dr. Anderson 等探討新研究領域之發展。在討論當中均認為全球
化之創新與跨邊界合作是一個以議題導向、跨領域間作快速整合與發展的學
術領域。目前此一領域正結合兩方面的研究動力：一方面由知識、科技與智
慧資產之創造探討產業之發展及應用；另一方面是跨邊界之互補性、雙贏之
創意與創業活動之新興研究領域。此一結合趨勢將能提升此學術領域對未來
的科技、產業及社會的進展上的貢獻及影響力。 
 
與會心於創新與創業管理本體論議題之研究上，筆者參加之場次分別探討創業
管理新知識之發掘過程之知識創新、知識移轉機制與作法。與會學者對於發展體系
之系統特徵及有效的參與過程所提出的論點與實證研究結果作整體性之探討。筆者
研究團隊提出知識服務業知識產出、利用動態模式之研究結果亦在會場獲得進一步
之討論與交流。會中除了歐、亞洲的學者外，有北美與會者表達有興趣探索作進一
步分析討論及研究之可能性。 
由此觀點來看這次大會主題的一再提到整個領域的跨組織邊界之知識
技術與組織管理體制整合的性質。再由這次與會論文安排的架構觀之，傳統
上技術知識與創新組織體制之結合運用似已愈來愈成熟，或許將來可能演進
為一個整體的領域，得以結合學術資源與成果以發揮其影響力。 
 
二、 考察參觀活動 
無 
 23
Organization Ontology for Innovation and Entrepreneurship for Cross-border 
Knowledge Services in the Globalizing IC Design Industries 
Yee-Yeen Chu and Wen-Chung Hsu 
National Tsing-Hua University 
Hsin-Chu, Taiwan 
yychu@ie.nthu.edu.tw
 
Abstract 
The objective of this research is to explore the facilitating role of organization network and 
ontology in identifying cross-border technology entrepreneurial opportunities to pursue 
innovations that achieve value creation. Based on a series of case studies of the integrated 
circuit (IC) design knowledge service industries, we explore the importance of entrepreneurial 
opportunities and organization boundary spanning in the dynamic process of international 
entrepreneurial (IE) activities. Previous IE studies have largely been characterized as static, 
cross-sectional, production sector-oriented and a lack of service sector and/or comparative 
research. As a result, the characteristics related to the emerging knowledge service sectors, the 
longitudinal aspects and cross-sector comparisons have largely been unexplored. Prior work in 
the IE tradition stressed mostly on the judgment-based or purposive sampling also means that 
the results are difficult to generalize. There is a major gap in providing rich perspective from 
multiple informants involved in technology entrepreneurial processes.  
Through the case studies of several IC design service providers, this research expects to clarify 
the dynamic transformation process of opportunity and value creation. Specifically, the issue of 
how the process is supported by the richness and the dynamically integrative effects of the 
various organization ontological elements is explored with a comparative study of the 
cross-border cases. Based on the theoretical and empirical findings, the implications will then 
be drawn out for strategic management of cross-border knowledge service and the associated 
business policy and practice. 
 
Keywords: Innovation and entrepreneurship, International entrepreneurship, Integrated circuit 
design, Cross-border knowledge service  
 
Portland International Conference on Management of Technology (PICMET) 2006 
 
 
 
 
 25
uncertainties of present market still exist, the problem of recognizing market needs does not 
disappear (Sarkar, 1997). To a certain extent, volatility, complexity, and heterogeneity make 
environments difficult to predict. In other words, environmental uncertainty means the degree to 
“which organizational decision makers perceive unpredictable changes in their external 
environment (Koberg, 1987).” Because of a variety of external environmental factors, it is difficult 
which strategy should be adopted and it is hard to change the organizations (Tripsas and Gavetti, 
2000; Park and Luo 2001; Miller and Friesen, 1982). The views of these scholars disclose the 
variety or uncertainty is a thorny and threatening problem for organizations.  
 
However, environmental uncertainty can be an opportunity for firms. Hitt, et al. (2001) & Galunic 
and Eisenhardt (1996) argue that firms will create great value for themselves if they can transform 
the potential environmental uncertainties into market opportunities along with the rapid changes of 
technological or customer needs. Miller (1993) notes that environmental uncertainty can be 
classified into six areas, (1) the uncertainty of government policies, (2) macro-economic 
uncertainties, (3) the uncertainty of the resources and services used by a company, (4) the 
uncertainty of the product market and demand, (5) the uncertainty of competition, and (6) the 
uncertainty of the technology in the industry. Here, we focus mainly on the uncertainty of the 
product market and demand to explore how the start-up firms use the type of uncertainty and 
business opportunity (O’Connor and Veryzer, 2001) in cross-border situations. Tidd, et al. (1997) 
further propose that firms could adopt innovative strategies to reconcile with environmental 
uncertainty. We discuss innovative strategies in detail as follows. 
 
Innovation and Technological Entrepreneurship 
 
Innovation can be considered a response which reacts to environmental change or a change means 
in organizations (Damanpour and Evan, 1984). Amit and Zott (2001) further suggest that 
innovation is an important source of value creation. Mowery and Rosenberg (1979) argue that 
innovation could be generated by technology push or market pull. Schumpeter (1934) addresses 
that sources of profits are derived from domination of firms over customers, not from service for 
customers. His argument stresses that technology push is the most important driver of innovation 
and outperforms market pull. In contrast, Mowery and Rosenberg (1979) suggest that market pull 
has more influence on innovation than technology push. The two scholars center on an effective 
innovation originated mainly from firms’ recognition of customer needs and from the necessity for 
firms to provide proper products or services to satisfy their customers. Besides, firms cannot only 
rely on the present market demands but on the future demands of customers to implement 
innovation (Christensen, 1997). Therefore, Cooper and Brentani (1991) & Crawford (1997) further 
propose a key of success of innovation is to know and to grasp customer demands.  
 
We will ground the discussion of typologies of organizational innovation upon product and 
 27
 
Organization Ontology 
 
This research adopts a knowledge-based view of firms, which focus on knowledge as its 
most strategically important resources (Grant, 1996). By having superior knowledge, an 
organization can understand how to exploit and develop its traditional resources better 
than its competitors. The ability to acquire, integrate, share, and apply it is the most 
important capability to build and sustain competitive advantages. In a general sense, this 
view is an extension of the resource-based view (Peteraf, 1993). Organization knowledge 
in a typical enterprise represents many types of knowledge, such as engineering, 
marketing, administrative, logistics, etc. The emphasis here is on the roles the organization 
knowledge play. Zander and Kogut (1995) find that the codifiability affects the ability of the 
organization to transfer and apply the knowledge. The complexity of the knowledge and 
the network context are found important for knowledge application and transfer (Hansen, 
1999). We will adopt a widely cited classification of the organizational knowledge by 
Spender (1996): the individual explicit knowledge, individual implicit knowledge, social 
explicit and social implicit. The capability to combine a variety of knowledge across the 
border allows the firms to re-create knowledge and contribute to opportunity discovery 
spanning the existing boundary. This mapping of organizational knowledge to the 
discovery of entrepreneurial opportunities is a fine one. In some situations, organizational 
knowledge may in fact effectively lead directly to the entrepreneurial opportunities. To 
 29
opportunities (Hitt, 2001; Nahapiet and Ghoshal, 2002). Many of the mechanisms that 
advance the entrepreneurial process reside in the continuously evolving cycles of 
developing intellectual capital, organizational knowledge, and opportunities. 
 
Entrepreneurial Opportunities 
 
Opportunity is a perceived bundle of unrealized values (Kodithuwakku and Rosa, 2002). The 
purpose of opportunity identification is to seek profitable opportunities that others have not 
identified or exploited. Stevenson, et al. (1999) indicate that identifying and selecting the right 
opportunities is the most important capability of entrepreneurial firms. The capability of 
opportunity identification relies on prior knowledge in entrepreneurial firms. Ardichvili, et al. 
(2003) argue that prior knowledge is available to trigger the discovery of a new opportunity, a new 
market, or a new solution to customer’s problems for entrepreneurial firms. As knowledge 
increases, entrepreneurial opportunity also increases (Kirzner, 1984; Kodithuwakku and Rosa, 
2002). Given the distinctive prior knowledge of entrepreneurial firms, they may identify several 
potential profitable opportunities that others have ignored (Noda and Collis, 2001; Shane and 
Venkataraman, 2003). 
 
Subsequent to opportunity identification, entrepreneurial firms engage in opportunity exploitation 
(Shane and Venkataraman, 2003). Within the strategies of opportunity exploitation, innovation 
could be considered an important practice of value creation (Chakravarthy, 1997; Drucker, 1985; 
Hitt and Ireland, 2000; Lumpkin and Dess, 1996). Innovation can be broadly categorized as 
technical or administrative (Damanpour and Evan, 1984). Technical innovations are defined as 
“innovations that occur in the technical system of an organization and are directly related to the 
primary work activity of the organization” (Damanpour and Evan, 1984). For instance, innovative 
information technologies could provide possibilities to create value for customers (Ardichvili, et al., 
2003) and firms (Amit and Zott, 2001). Thus, firms are forced to establish the relationship between 
new information technologies and customer needs in order to create value. 
 
Administrative innovations are defined as “innovations that occur in the social system of an 
organization” (Damanpour and Evan, 1984). The social system is an interactive relationship formed 
by actors to reach a specific goal. Innovation in the social system includes changes of 
communication or transaction of rules, roles, means, and structures (Damanpour and Evan, 1984). 
In the case of IC design industry in Taiwan (Chu and Tsai, 2004), we had addressed an important 
strategic issue: how the technology entrepreneurial firms in the industry identified market and 
technology opportunities, developed organizational innovations, and finally created value. The 
conceptual framework focused on the interaction of organizational knowledge, intellectual capital, 
and the entrepreneurial opportunity.  In the majority of the firms, there are several dimensions of 
organization knowledge and cross-border intellectual/social capital that have direct impacts on the 
 31
richness of the intellectual and social context. Collectively, the rich and dynamic nature of 
the IC design’s product market come with a structured technology patterns and norms 
evolving over the last decade which provide a set of crystallizing lens on the transformation 
and clustering effects of the various ontological elements afforded by close examination of 
the evolutionary paths of the IC technology systems. According to the individual revenue 
reports of the key players in the last decade, we find a high-growth with highly volatile 
performance.  
 
One the one hand, we find that there are dramatic performance changes which are partly 
due to the technology and market changes, which forms many entirely different innovative 
practices to accelerate the accumulation of cross-boundary knowledge which are key to 
facilitate great growth of revenue. On the other hand, we also find the trends of successive 
increment of entrepreneurial activities, venture initiatives, and market opportunities, which 
parallel with the trends of product and technology varieties and revenue growth (Bruyat 
and Julien, 2000). Based on the premise of the organizational knowledge as socially 
embedded, this project hence explores how the IC design firms effectively capture the 
opportunity in the highly uncertain environment to create value. There are four IC firms are 
selected from those specialized in IC technology development involved in the 
microelectronic product design, productions, system integration, and the combinations of 
the above. 
 
An Organization Ontology Engineering Model 
 
In an initial stage of organization development, the urge of organizations is to gain 
immediate profits (O’Connor and Veryzer, 2001) in the presence of many uncertainties in 
the market. A prominent knowledge management problem is to support the recognition of 
market opportunity (Sarkar, 1997). Milliken (1987) suggests that the source of 
environmental uncertainty is when administrators perceive the organization’s external 
environment to be unpredictable. To a certain extent, volatility, complexity, and 
heterogeneity make environments difficult to predict. In other words, environmental 
uncertainty means the degree to “which organizational decision makers perceive 
unpredictable changes in their external environment (Koberg, 1987).” Because of a variety 
of external environments, it is difficult which knowledge creation strategy should be 
adopted and it is hard to change the learning practice for organizations (Tripsas and 
Gavetti, 2000; Park and Luo 2001; Miller and Friesen, 1982). The views of these scholars 
disclose the variety and the ways of gauging uncertainty of environment creating a thorny 
problem for organizations.  
 
However, environmental uncertainty can be an opportunity for firms. Hitt, et al. (2001) & 
 33
For example, the ontology for exercising the network ties in the IC industry influences the 
access to the parties and the anticipation of value for a particular initiative. Specifically, 
links A1 and A2 in Figure 2 are prevalent in the leading digital and analog circuit design 
firms in the cross-border conception-design-production collaboration arrangements. Social 
contacts provide referrals to the people and organizations in the network which influence 
the opportunities to combine and exchange of the knowledge related to the initiative. The 
ontology directed to fostering the trust and identification factors in anticipating the value 
and motivating the action of an initiative would enhance the opportunities and value 
created. (As shown in links C1 and C2 in Figure 2, the case in point explicates the 
extensive outsourcing and market partnering patterns of the IC design house as affected 
by the alliance relationship and geographic clusters. The knowledge for the levels of trust 
needed in the intention, capability, reliability, and openness in the other parties plays a key 
role in the new venture initiatives.) The objective for developing the model is twofold: 1) to 
expand the concept of organization ontology further by including intellectual/social capital 
creation process, and 2) to gather empirical evidences testify to the important role of 
organizational knowledge on the intellectual capital and the entrepreneurial opportunities. 
 
Cross-border Collaborative Innovation and Entrepreneurship for Knowledge Services 
 
A key to collaboration in the open innovation environment is the collective governance of 
distributed innovation resources (Christensen, et al., 2005; Obrecht, 2004; Chesbrough, 2003). 
Intellectual capital has increasingly been considered a valuable intangible asset for start-up firms in 
opportunity creation, since it provides complementary human intellect, structural routines and 
network of relationships that can lead to competitive advantage. This research uses the ontology 
model described above to cover not only the business organization but also organizing the business 
cross the organization boundary; that is, the scope of the concept includes not only the business 
entities, but also the knowledge that captured and inferred through a network of social actors, 
processes, and institutions across the border. The action perspective of the organization ontology 
emphasizes the social activities by which the actors/agents generate the space of coordinated 
actions in which they work. This research also adopts some of the experimental concepts and 
approaches which have been explored for the collaborative integration of dynamic ontologies in 
scope and scale (Chu and Chien, 2005; Rezende, et al., 2005; Aziz, et al., 2005; Guarino and Welty, 
2001.)    
 
The IC design sectors studied include representative cases in the traditional IC design, manufacture, 
and logistic services and digital intellectual capital (IP) content design, production, and delivery 
services. Figure 3 presents the ontology structure for a sample case involving the traditional and 
knowledge-based delivering the IC design services. The opportunities for the design service are 
created with the combinations of technological, management and social knowledge residing within 
 35
organizational knowledge to guide the collaborative innovation and entrepreneurial opportunities.  
  
Cross-border collaborative innovations on the knowledge-intensive services are a significant and 
growing part of all developed and developing economies. These services including industrial 
production and logistics services, information and software services, R&D and technical services, 
business consulting and marketing services, education and human resource development, medical 
and health care services, finance and entertainment services, etc. Drivers of these services include 
the demand side factors, including access to the specialist skills, competitive pressure, cost control 
and demand variability, all of which tend to increase demand for the knowledge service (OECD, 
2000, 2004, 2005, Wolfl, 2003; Houghton, 2004.)   
 
One important way for the cross-border opportunity to emerge is through the digital delivery of the 
service, which is quite mature for some sectors in the IC design industry (e.g., digital, analog and 
mix-signal circuit design and development) and still emerging in others (e.g., design cell and 
library services.) In this research, we have examined the wide context of cross-border collaboration 
to deliver knowledge services which illustrates various modes of services, from digitally mastering, 
mediating, outsourcing, and delivering services. This framework categorizes the forms of the 
collaborative knowledge services from face-to-face to fully cross-border digital delivery (time 
independent, different place and different organization, that is, geographically distributed 
electronically mediated services across organization network and boundary (see, e.g., Wolfl, 2003; 
Houghton, 2004.) Based on this framework, this research further examines the drivers, mechanisms, 
the potential opportunities, and impacts for collaborative entrepreneurial services. 
 
4. Conclusions and Discussion 
 
This paper explores how technology-based entrepreneurial firms in Taiwan IC industry draw upon 
organization knowledge, intellectual capital, resources and social networks across border in the 
process of international entrepreneurial activities.  The premise of the research is on the active 
role for integrative organization ontology to capitalizing on the dispersed intellectual capital for 
entrepreneurial opportunity creation.  The study extends the existing IE literature by highlighting 
the importance of the cross-organization knowledge generation activities to address the emerging 
market trends and technology changes via collective, knowledge-driven entrepreneurial actions.  
 
This research adopts case study approach to explore, analyze and compare entrepreneurial process 
of selected IC firms, specialized in IC technology development involving design, productions, and 
system integration. The main outcome of this research is to establish a dynamic ontology 
engineering model the technology-based start-ups used for identifying innovation opportunity and 
enhancing knowledge exchange/creation through social network. The model needs to employ a 
combination of ontological transformation and learning capabilities for knowledge creation and 
 37
Business Venturing, Vol.16, pp.165-180. 
Chakravarthy, B., 1997, A New Strategy Framework for Coping with Turbulence, Sloan 
Management Review, Winter, pp.69-82. 
Chang, P.-L. and Tsai, C.-T. 2002. Finding the Niche Position – Competition Strategy of Taiwan’s 
IC Design Industry, Technovation 22 (2002), pp.101-111. 
Chaston, I. and T. Mangles, 2001, ‘E-commerce and Small UK Accounting Firms: Influence of 
Marketing Style and Orientation’, Service Industries Journal, Oct, Vol.21, No.4, pp.83-99. 
Chen, S.-H. 2004. Taiwanese IT Firms’ Offshore R&D in China and the Connection with the 
Global Innovation Network, Research Policy, 33(2004) pp. 337-349. 
Chesbrough, H. 2003 Open Innovation: the New Imperative for Creating and Profiting from 
Technology. Harvard Business School Press. 
Chesbrough, H., 2003a. Towards a Dynamics of Modularity. a Cyclical Model of Technological 
Advance. In: Prencipe, A., Davies, A., Hobday, M. (Eds.), The Business of Systems 
Integration. Oxford University Press. 
Christensen, C. M. 1997. The Innovator’s Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms 
to Fail. Boston and Massachusetts: Harvard Business School Press. 
Christensen, J. F., Olesen, M.H., and Kjaer, J.S. 2005 The Industrial Dynamics of Open 
Innovation – Evidence from the Transformation of Consumer Electronics, Research Policy, 34  
pp. 1533-1549. 
Chu, Y. and Chien, C. 2005 Constructing Collaborative Distributed Objects Sharing on the 
Semantic Web, The 9th World Multi-Conference on Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics 
(WMSCI 2005) , Orlando, FL, July. 
Chu, Y. and Tsai, Y. 2004. Deploying Intellectual Capital for Enhancing the Technology 
Entrepreneurship. Incubator and Start-up Bimonthly, December. (in Chinese.) 
Cooper, R. G. and Brentani, U. 1991. New Industrial Financial Service: What Distinguishes the 
Winners. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 8: 75-90. 
Corcho, O., Fernandez-Lopez, M., and Gomez-Perez, A. 2003. ‘Methodologies, Tools and 
Languages for Building Ontologies: Where Is Their Meeting Point?’ Data and Knowledge 
Engineering, Vol. 46, pp.41-64. 
Coviello, N. E. and Jones, M. V. 2004 Methodological Issues in International Entrepreneurship 
 39
17(2), pp. 109-123. 
Gruninger, M. and Lee, J. 2002, Ontology Applications and Design, Communications of the ACM, 
Vol. 45(2) Feb. 
Guarino, N. and Welty, C. 2002 Evaluating Ontological Decisions with OntoClean, ACM Special 
Issue on Ontology Applications and Design. 45(2) pp. 61-65 
Hamel, G. and Prahalad, C. K. 1994. Competing for the Future. Boston: Harvard Business School 
Press. 
Hansen, M. T. 1999.  The Search-Transfer Problem: The Role of Weak Ties in Sharing 
Knowledge Across Organizational Subunits, Administrative Science Quarterly. 
Hitt, M. and R. D. Ireland, 2000, The Intersection of Entrepreneurship and Strategic 
Management Research, in Sexton, D. L. and H. Landström, (ed.), Handbook of 
Entrepreneurship, pp.45-63, MA: Blackwell. 
Hitt, M. A., Ireland, R. D., Camp, S. M., and Sexton, D. L., 2001. Guest Dditors; Introduction to 
the Special Issue Strategic Entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurial Strategies for Wealth Creation. 
Strategic Management Journal, 22: 479-491.                                                   
Hitt, M. A., Ireland, R. D., Camp, S. M. and Sexton, D. L. 2002, Strategic Entrepreneurship: 
Integrating Entrepreneurial and Strategic Management Perspectives, pp.1-16. in Hitt, M. A., 
Ireland, R. D., Camp S. M., and Sexton, D. L . (ed.), Strategic Entrepreneurship: Creating a 
New Mindset, Oxford, MA: Blackwell Publishers. 
Houghton, J.W. , 2004. Digital Delivery of Business Services, OECD Working Paper on the 
Information Economy. 
Kleinschmidt, E. J. and Cooper, R. G. 1991. The Impact of Product Innovativeness on Performance. 
Journal of Product Innovation Management, 8: 240-251. 
Kirzner,  I., 1984, The Entrepreneurial Process, in C.A. Kent (ed.), The Environment for 
Entrepreneurship, Lexington Books, New York, pp.41-58. 
Koberg, C. S. 1987. Resource Scarcity, Environmental Uncertainty, and Adaptive Organizational 
Behavior. Academy of Management Journal, 30(4): 798-807. 
Koberg, C. S., Uhlenbruck, N., and Sarason, Y. 1996. Facilitators of Organizational Innovation: 
The Role of Life-cycle Stage. Journal of Business Venturing, 11: 133-149. 
Kodithuwakku, S. S. and P. Rosa, 2002, The Entrepreneurial Process and Economic Success in a 
 41
OECD. 2004. Digital Broadband Content: Panel and Government Session, OECD Report. 
OECD. 2004. Digital Delivery of Business Services, OECD Report. 
OECD. 2005. Digital Broadband Content: Mobile Content – New Content for New Platforms, 
OECD Report. 
Park, S. H. and Luo, Y. 2001. Guanxi and Organizational Dynamics: Organizational Networking in 
Chinese Firms. Strategic Management Journal, May, 22(5): 455-477. 
Peteraf, M., 1993. The Cornerstone of Competitive Advantages: A Resource-based View, Strategic 
Management Journal. 14, pp179-191. 
Rezende, J.L.  2005. Peer-to-Peer Collaborative Integration of Dynamic Ontologies, 9th 
International Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, ACM. 
Saxenian A. L. and Li, C. Y. 2003. Bay-to-Bay Strategic Alliances: The Network Linkages between 
Taiwan and the US Venture Capital Industries. International Journal of Technology 
Management, 25(1/2), pp.136-150. 
Sarkar, M. 1997. An Assessment of Pricing Mechanisms for the Internet: A Regulatory Imperative. 
In Lee W. McKnight and Joseph P. Bailey, Editors. Internet Economics, Boston, MA: MIT 
Press. 
Schumpeter, J. A. 1934. The Theory of Economic Development. Cambridge: Harvard University 
Press. 
Shane, S. and Venkataraman, S., 2003 Guest Editors’ Introduction to the Special Issue on 
Technology Entrepreneurship, Research Policy,  
Shyu, J. Z., Chiu, Y. C. and You, C. C. A Cross-national Comparative Analysis of Innovation Policy 
in the Integrated Circuit Industry, Technology In Society, 22(2001) pp. 227-240. 
Souder, W. and Sherman, J. 1994. Managing new technology development. New York: 
McGraw-Hill. 
Spender, J.C. 1996. Making Knowledge the Basis of a Dynamic Theory of the Firm, Strategic 
Management Journal, 17(2), pp. 45-62.   
Stevenson, H. H., M. J., Roberts and H. I., Grousbeck, 1999, New Business Ventures and the 
Entrepreneur, 5th ed., Boston: Irwin, McGraw-Hill. 
Sugumaran, V. and Storey, V. C. 2002. Ontologies for Conceptual Modeling: Their Creation, Use, 
and Management,’ Data and Knowledge Engineering, Vol. 42, pp.251-271. 
 43
