2 
The dynamic behaviors of unlike drop collisions 
INTRODUCTION 
Binary drop collision research stemmed from the fields of meteorology and sprays.  With 
respect to two liquid drops of one liquid, the research results up to 1997 have been summed up 
nicely in Orme (1997).  Representative works are Ashgriz & Poo (1990) on water drops and Qian 
& Law (1997) on fuel drops. For two like-liquid drops colliding in a gas field, the collision 
outcome can be one of the following: bouncing, coalescence, reflex separation with or without 
satellites, stretching separation with or without satellites, and shattering.  And the controlling 
parameters are the Weber number, the impact parameter and the diameter ratio.  
Generally speaking, at a low Weber number or a medium impact parameter, a collision results in 
coalescence.  Reflex separation occurs at low impact parameters and medium Weber numbers, 
while stretching separation appears at high impact parameters and medium Weber numbers.  
Additionally, the collision behaviors of fuel drops were found to vary significantly from those of 
water drops.  The most noticeable difference is the bouncing phenomena associated with the 
hydrocarbon drop collisions.  
More recent works on like drops collisions are Estrade et al. (1999), experimenting on ethanol 
drops and emphasizing bouncing phenomenon; Brenn et al. (2001), on the number of secondary 
produced for the collision of propanol-2 drops;  and Willis and Orme (2003), on the role of 
viscosity by colliding drops in vacuum surroundings.  
Most recently research on the collision of drops of unlike liquids has appeared, aiming at the 
possible occurrence of such collisions in systems like fuel-oxidizer sprays, fire extinguishing agents, 
or incompletely emulsified fuel sprays.  Collisions of unlike miscible drops with large surface 
tension difference, namely, ethanol drops with water drops, were discussed in our previous work, 
Gao, et al.(2005).  In addition to the conventional stretching separation, coalescence, and reflex 
separation phenomena, new phenomena, such as the splitting of the water drop and the generation 
of small satellites during the very early stage of the impact, have been discovered.  And these new 
phenomena were attributed to the so-called USF (unbalanced surface fore) action defined in that 
paper. 
The collision results of immiscible drops are expected to be very different from those of unlike 
miscible drops because of the presence of the interface. This experimental investigation on the 
collision behaviors of (1) a diesel oil drop and a water drop and (2) a diesel oil drop and an ethanol 
drop has revealed important features of the collision of two immiscible drops. 
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP AND MEASUREMENT 
Our experimental setup is shown schematically in Fig. 1.  Two piezoelectric drop generators 
were used to generate two droplets streams of equal size in the range of 700µm to 800µm with their 
velocities in the range of 1m/s to 3m/s.  A stream of diesel and a stream of either water or ethanol 
were provided through separate pressurized containers.  Only one function generator was used to 
drive these two drop generators and the two streams of drops collided pair by pair in front of a 
stroboscope.  The frequency of the stroboscope was synchronized with the drop-generating 
frequency so that the collision outcome may be recorded by the video camera as slow motion.  
The sizes, speeds, collision angles of the two streams of liquid drops were varied to change the 
Weber number and impact parameter of the collision.  The measurements were then made on the 
recorded frames of video, where the water drops or ethanol drops were dyed red for easier 
identification. 
3. MATHEMATICAL MODELS  
(A) DIESEL OIL DROP AND WATER DROP 
Figure 2 is a drawing showing the relative positions of the drops.  Two drops of unlike liquids 
4 
sinb
D
β γ−Χ =             (7) 
The physical properties of diesel oil, ethanol, and tetradecane are listed in Table 1. In our present 
study, the diameter ratio is unity; the viscous effects are ignored; and the property ratios are 
constant because we have not studied drops other than ethanol and diesel oil.  Therefore, the data 
are presented with only the Weber number and the impact parameter.  In our study, the Weber 
number is defined as  
2
E
2
  ; where  DE D E
D D
DVWe ρ ρ ρρσ ρ ρ= = +         (8) 
An averaged density ρ , which can be derived from linear momentum conservation, is used to 
represent the effective collision kinetic energy.  The surface tension coefficient of diesel oil was 
used to define the Weber number for the correlation of the experimental data.  However, in the 
Results and Discussion section we shall see that, in different regimes of collisions, this choice does 
not always represent the correct physics underlying the collision behavior.  The coalescence or 
separation of the two drops after collision is determined by the strength of the liquid bridge formed 
after the collision.  The strength of the liquid bridge is determined by the constituents of the liquid 
bridge, which is distinct for each collision regime. The present dimensionless groups and their 
values or ranges are presented in Table 2B. 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
(A) Collisions of a diesel oil drop with a water drop 
Our present study using one diesel oil drop colliding with one water drop produced a collision 
regime map in Fig. 3.  Bouncing is represented by “□”; Coalescence by “＋”; single reflex 
separation by “○”; and stretching separation by “△.”  In the figure the Weber number is defined 
with the smaller surface tension coefficient of the two, i.e. diesel oil.  Note that the curves which 
show the boundary lines between regimes were made by observation rather than any theoretical or 
empirical correlations.     
We have used the conventional terms for bouncing, coalescence, and stretching separation in Fig. 
3 except for reflex separation. A new term “single reflex separation” is used to distinguish the 
collision outcome from the conventional term “reflex separation” for like drop and miscible drop 
collision. Conventionally, reflex separation refers to a collision in which both drops reflex 
(meaning: flatten to form a disk and retract to form a rod) and the major portion of each drop is 
reflected backward, i.e. opposite its incoming direction.  For “single reflex separation”, only the 
water drop flattens and retracts; the diesel oil drop flows from the impact point over the outer 
surface of the water drop and gathers at the other end of the water drop.  More details will be 
provided with the discussions on Photos 3 through 7 in later text. 
Because the collision phenomena are rather new, we have taken great precautions to identify the 
underlying physics and to ensure correct measurements, as is evident in the regime map that a great 
number of data points were taken.  In Figure 4, we have placed the photo numbers used in the 
following discussions at their corresponding We-X coordinates for easier reference. 
In the following text, the collision physics will be explained with the aid of stepwise photos.  
Firstly, we discuss head-on collisions with increasing Weber number: Photos 1 through 7.  In 
Photo 1, two drops which engaged in a head-on (X~0 and We=9.6) bouncing collision are seen to 
fly from right to left with the water drop on top and colored in red.  The clear diesel drop hit the 
south pole of the red water drop and both drops started to flatten.  The diesel oil drop is seen to 
have a higher deformation rate than the water drop because of its lower surface tension. At this 
Weber number, the gas layer  between the two drops is not broken, and the two drop bounced off 
with no mass exchange. 
6 
a coalesced compound drop.  The coalescence behaviors in Photo 12 was similar to those of Photo 
11, but exhibited more deformation.  In Photo 13, a higher impact parameter moved the diesel oil 
more offside.  With little overlaying action and much more stretching action, the liquid bridge is 
seen to be stretching longer and thinner, thus resulted in stretching separation with one secondary 
drop.  Note that because of the stronger and quicker retraction of the water drop, the liquid bridge 
under stretching consists completely of diesel oil. Stretching separation results in a thin-shelled 
compound drop (the shell comes from the remnant portion of the liquid bridge on the water drop), 
and a pure diesel drop, and a pure diesel oil secondary drop.  For even higher impact parameter, 
say X~0.6 in Photo 14, the collided part grew smaller and thus generated a thinner liquid bridge, 
while the stretching power became larger, therefore stretching separation is easier to happen. 
At a high Weber number, say 80, the head-on collision results in single reflex separation and the 
collision changes to stretching separation as the impact parameter is increased, as shown in Photos 
8, 15, 16, 17, 18.  Photos 15 and 16 were single reflex separation at X=0.15 and X=0.23, the 
overlaying action of the diesel oil can clearly be seen.  The reflex action of the water drop can also 
be clearly seen, as it flattens and lengthens.  However, due to the off-center impact, the resultant 
liquid cylinders were skewed., although the residual energy was still enough to cut the liquid 
cylinder into two secondary drops.  As the impact parameters are further increased to x=0.46 in 
Photo 17, both drops were offset to the side and stretched each other into a long liquid bridge.  
Note that there is no reflex action of the water drop. Stretching separation resulted with one 
secondary drop.  In Photo 18, stretching momentum grew while the liquid bridge narrowed, 
making stretching separation easier to happen.  Note that coalescence at this Weber number has 
completely disappeared. 
Only in a narrow range of the Weber number, around 60, can we see the transition from single 
reflex separation to coalescence to stretching separation as the impact parameter is raised, as shown 
in Photos 5, 19, 20, 21.  The reflex action was barely enough to separate the combined mass in 
Photo 19.  In Photo 20, due to the more warped deformation of the water drop, the reflex energy is 
no longer enough to break the combined mass and coalescence resulted.  Then in Photo 21, 
stretching action set in and stretching separation occurred. 
If we compare the regime map for water-diesel drop collision with the regime maps of 
water-water drop collision (Fig. 5, taken from Ashgriz and Poo, 1990) and diesel-diesel drop 
collision (Fig. 6, data from our lab), one should be able to appreciate three features.  Firstly, the 
water-diesel bouncing regime is almost identical to the diesel-diesel bouncing regime.  Secondly, 
the area of the stretching separation regime has enlarged at the expense of the coalescence regime.  
Because during stretching separation, the liquid bridge is only contributed by the diesel oil, 
therefore, the liquid bridge is usually thinner than it is during the stretching collision of like drops.  
This fact facilitates the occurrence of stretching separation.  Thirdly, the onset of reflex separation 
for head-on collisions has been pushed to a much higher Weber number. 
(B) Collisions of a diesel oil drop with an ethanol drop 
In Figure 7, the experimental data and regime boundaries of diesel-ethanol drop collisions are 
represented by the four types of symbols and the dotted lines, whereas the solid lines are the regime 
boundaries for the collisions of diesel drops as seen in Figure 3. Note that the abscissa We is 
calculated by equation (8).  In the region 20<We<50 and 0.3<X<0.8, the outcomes of both 
diesel-diesel and diesel-ethanol are almost the same for this choice of the Weber number. At the 
other regions, however, there are indeed differences in the values of We and X for the onset of 
different collision outcomes. The noticeable disagreed parts of the two sets of boundary lines are 
indicated by the braced alphabets {A}, {B}, {C}, and {D}.  The points where we will focus our 
discussions on are indicated by the braced symbols {A}, {B}, {C}, and {D}. 
Before discussing the origin of the differences, we first look at a distinct feature of a 
diesel-ethanol drop collision. In Photo 22, the collision at a very small Weber number is seen with 
the ethanol drop dyed red. Soon after the touching of the interface, the red ethanol spread onto the 
8 
X and We, near {D}, but agreement at higher X and We. There is also a major difference for very 
small Weber numbers; while a diesel-ethanol produces coalescence, a diesel-diesel retains bouncing 
behavior. It is important for the readers to note that the bouncing regime is not characterized by just 
the Weber number and the impact parameter. This fact has already been realized in the numerous 
past researches of like drop collisions.  The reasons is clearly the participation of the vapor phase.  
Therefore, the bouncing regime is material and surrounding dependent and should not be discussed 
based on just the properties of the liquid phases. The present experimental bouncing regimes are 
specific for diesel-diesel and diesel-ethanol and are not to be extended to other materials. 
 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
(A) FOR DIESEL OIL AND WATER DROPS 
1. An “overlaying” action occurs for near-head-on collisions, in which the diesel oil flows along 
the surface of the water drop from the collision point to the opposite end of the water drop. 
2. The overlaying action for near-head-on collisions increases dissipation, which leads to the 
difficulty in single reflex separation of the combined mass. 
3. Single reflex separation (for immiscible-drop collisions) generates fewer secondary drops than 
reflex separation (for like-drop or immiscible unlike-drop collisions. 
4. Stretching separation generates one compound drop, one pure diesel oil drop, and a few diesel 
oil secondary drops.  Coalescence generates one compound drop.  Single reflex separation 
generates two or more compounds drops with one or more pure diesel oil secondary drops. 
5. During stretching separation, the liquid bridge is comprised completely of diesel oil and the 
water drop never breaks. 
6. For a collision at a Weber number higher than 60, coalescence is no longer possible. 
(B) FOR DIESEL OIL AND ETHANOL DROPS 
1. For a diesel-ethanol drop collision, upon merging of the interface, ethanol spreads very 
quickly over the diesel drop. 
2. A near head-on diesel-ethanol collision reflexes to produce a cylindrical liquid bridge covered 
with uneven layer of ethanol.  Because reflex separation could happen at a weak point, it is more 
likely to happen for a diesel-ethanol collision than for a diesel-diesel collision. 
3. During a drop collision at medium or high impact parameters, the action of ethanol spreading 
over diesel drop adds to the thickness of the liquid bridge and thus creates a stronger liquid bridge, 
which is less likely to be stretching to breaking. 
4. Compound drops with ethanol shell and diesel core will be produced during coalescence, 
reflex separation, and stretching separation of a diesel-ethanol drop collision. 
 
5. REFERENCES 
Ashgriz N and Poo JY (1990) Coalescence and separation in binary collisions of droplets. J. 
Fluid Mech., 221:183-204. 
Brenn G, Valkovska D, and Danov KD (2001) The formation of satellite droplets by unstable 
binary drop collision. Phys. Fluids, 13:2463-2477. 
Estrade J-P, Carentz H, Lavergne G, and Biscos Y (1999) Experimental investigation of dynamic 
binary collision of ethanol droplets ― a model for droplet coalescence and bouncing. Int. J. Heat 
Fluid Flow, 20:486-491. 
Gao TC, Chen RH, Pu JY, and Lin TH (2005) Collision between an ethanol drop and a water 
drop. Expts. in Fluids, 38:731-738. 
Orme M (1997) Experiments on droplet collisions, bounce, coalescence and disruption. Prog. 
Energy Combust. Sci., 23:65-79. 
10 
 
Figure 1 Experimental Setup 
 
 
Figure 2 Geometry for relative velocity and impact parameter calculation 
 
12 
 
Figure 4 We-x coordinates of the photos on the collision regime map 
14 
 
Figure 6 Pattern map for diesel-diesel drop collision 
16 
Photo 2 Coalescence (We=18.6, x=0) 
 
Photo 3 Coalescence with overlaying action (We=28.7, x=0) 
 
Photo 4 Coalescence with overlaying action (We=45.3, x=0) 
 
Photo 5 Single reflex separation with two compound drops (We=58.9, x=0) 
 
 
Photo 6 Single reflex separation with two compound drops (We=79.6, x=0) 
 
 
Photo 7 Single reflex separation with three compound drops and pure secondary drops 
(We=95.3 , x=0) 
 
18 
 
Photo 13 Stretching separation (We=44.8, x=0.33) 
 
Photo 14 Stretching separation (We=45.8, x=0.65 ) 
 
Photo 15 Single reflex separation (We=79.8, x=0.15) 
 
Photo 16 Single reflex separation (We=79.4, x=0.23) 
 
 
Photo 17 Stretching separation (We=77.5, x=0.46) 
 
20 
 
 
 
Photo 23 (a1) Diesel-ethanol head-on reflex separation at We ~ 30 (a2) Diesel-diesel reflex 
separation at We ~ 30 (b) Sketch of the internal structure 
 
22 
 
 
Photo 26 (a) A diesel-ethanol stretching separation at We~50 and x=0.41 (b) A diesel-diesel 
stretching separation at We~50 and x=0.41 
