II 
 
Abstract 
Concrete is the primary material for building envelopes in some parts of the world, and its 
ability to store heat as well as its dynamic temperature changes will not only affect the deterioration 
rate of the exterior wall but will also greatly influence the energy efficiency of interior air 
conditioning. There are many methods for measuring the inner temperature of concrete, but they 
often have limitations, such as indirect estimation, cable installation requirements, high cost, or 
heterogeneity of the sample structure. In order to measure the internal temperature of concrete, this 
study integrated a Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit (RFIC) with a temperature sensor chip and 
embedded the device in concrete structures. A Smart Temperature Information Material (STIM) was 
thus developed. This device overcomes the aforementioned constraints, allows direct measurement 
and wireless transmission, and is able to constantly monitor temperature changes from a distance. 
The experiment embedded STIM into 5 concrete specimens that simulated rooftop insulation (50 × 
50 × 15 cm) to measure the thermal performance of each insulation material, and the effect of 
weather conditions and the heat release/absorption rates on the thermal performance. The results of 
the study can be used as a reference for selecting materials for building design or maintenance and 
analysis of the energy efficiency of building envelopes. 
Keywords: temperature, Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit (RFIC), detector, measurement, 
building envelope, energy. 
 
2 
 
Heat distribution and the amount of heat lost by heat transfer through a building’s exterior 
walls can only be measured and calculated correctly in the steady state [19]. One of the commonly 
used methods is the calculation of the reflectivity of insulation materials [20]. Another commonly 
used method is simulation analysis [13]. These methods are very useful for the analysis of a 
building’s thermal performance during its design stage. However, these methods are not practical 
from the viewpoint of long-term analysis of a building’s thermal performance because the 
deterioration of insulation materials, the appearance of new influence factors during operation, and 
rapidly changing weather conditions can all alter the original result. Therefore, an analysis conducted 
using constant, long-term, and real-time monitoring results, which are measured by multiple sensors 
embedded in a building’s structure, will be more useful for ACE/FM or on-site building managers 
when evaluating insulation materials or the energy consumption of indoor air-conditioning. Enabling 
such an analysis is one of the main goals of this study. For this reason, this study developed the 
Smart Temperature Information Material (STIM) by integrating Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit 
(RFIC) with temperature sensor chips. STIM can be directly embedded into the RC board of a roof to 
measure real-time temperature changes. This information is used primarily during the operation stage 
of a building’s life cycle for the purpose of long-term monitoring and drawing up an energy 
management strategy. The development of STIM in this study provides important contributions to a 
building’s life cycle stage which differs from the previously mentioned studies. 
2. RFIC technology integrated with temperature sensor chips 
RFIC (Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit) and the commonly seen RFID (Radio Frequency 
Identification) both use RF (Radio Frequency) technology. RFID is already commonly used in 
intelligent building design and construction management fields, with related research such as Gu et 
al. [21] proposing the use of RFID technology to allow an unsupervised approach based on 
object-use fingerprints to recognize activities without human labeling. Tesoriero et al. [22] proposed 
the use of cheap and reliable technology using RFID to develop a passive RFID-based indoor 
location system that is able to accurately locate autonomous entities, such as robots and people, 
within a defined area. Ergen et al. [23] used RFID to store historical records and improve 
management and maintenance efficiency. Chin et al. [24] used RFID+4D to establish a management 
system called PMS at an iron and steel factory and construction ground to improve management 
efficiency. Goodrum et al. [25] used RFID to track tools and improve their usability, and at the same 
time created an inventory and maintenance system. Song et al. [26] used RFID to track the position 
of materials on construction job sites, and utilized RFID and GPS to perform a group of experiments 
to verify the position-location; this provided a method to understand the role, location, and history of 
the facility during its life cycle. 
4 
 
paper), who was able to successfully integrate RFIC technology with a temperature/humidity sensor. 
After many corrections and improvements, the current STIM was developed. It can transmit data 
wirelessly in real-time, and directly and continuously measures the internal temperature and 
humidity of concrete. STIM continuously transmits signals for a set time. The signal receiver then 
transmits the measured data to a computer (PC/NB). STIM is used in this study as a groundbreaking 
new technology for analyzing building energy efficiency and the thermal performance of rooftop 
insulation material, as shown in Figure 3. 
 
 
 
Figure 3 Signal transmission of STIM embedded in a concrete structure 
For real-world applications, a building manager can use the Building Physiology Information 
System (BPIS) developed by our research team to remotely and continuously monitor changes in the 
temperature over the long term, and set a warning for the minimum/maximum temperature and 
humidity at certain points of the STIM. The BPIS system uses C
++
, a programming language close to 
machine code, to effectively manage system memory space. It uses a relational database to store the 
measured temperature, humidity, and other corresponding basic information regarding the building 
[31].  
3. Experimental planning 
This study compares the thermal properties of commonly used insulation materials in buildings 
in Taiwan, providing a reference for future energy saving plans or for the selection of material for the 
renovation an old roof. As well as the tested specimen, a second insulation layer was applied to the 
RC plate specimen (50 ×50 × 15 cm) to simulate a roof structure. In order to record accurate 
temperature values and reduce interference from external temperature changes, a white polystyrene 
foam board with a thickness of 1.5 cm was laid on four sides and the bottom of the specimen box (as 
shown in Figure 4(a)). To allow the insulation material in the reinforced concrete boards to receive 
even sunlight and avoid interference from humans and other aspects of the external environment, the 
experiment was conducted in an open space. The specimens were placed on the roof of the 
Civil/Hydraulic Engineering Building at Feng Chia University in Taiwan. To compare the 
performance of insulation materials, there were five reinforced concrete specimens which imitated 
roof structures: Control Group A (no insulation material installed) and Experimental Groups B-E, 
15cm    
Smart Temperature Information Material 
1
m 
50cm   
50cm   
RFIC 
Receiver 
6 
 



n
t t
t
Y
e
n
MPE
1
100
1  ………………………….……………………………..formula (1) 
In the formula, YttYet 

, Yt  refers to the actual number, 

Yt  refers to the estimated number, and n 
is the number of samples. 
 
              
Figure 5 Verifying specimen           Figure 6 Simultaneous measurements of temperatures 
using STIM and Pt-100 
4.2 Thermal performance of roofs under different weather conditions 
When embedding STIM into RC roof specimens to measure the internal temperature change of 
the insulation material, the STIM was set to measure and transmit every five minutes. Figure 7 shows 
measurements from 2010/07/12 to 2010/07/31; this study used another sealed RFIC transmitter in the 
rooftop experimental area to observe the outdoor temperature changes in the atmosphere. During the 
continuous monitoring, the average outdoor temperature was 28.3 ℃. Since sunny days, overcast 
days, and rainy days all occurred during monitoring, a sample was selected from each different 
weather condition for discussion. For instance, 2010/07/20 is an example of a sunny day sample, 
2010/07/24 is an overcast day sample, and 2010/07/27 is a rainy day sample. Based on the data from 
these three samples, we will now discuss the thermal performance of insulation structures in Control 
Group A and Experimental Groups B-E. Analysis of temperatures from the five groups during the 
three weather types yields the following results: 
1. Sunny day sample: At 4:30 pm, Control Group A’s specimen’s highest internal temperature was 
45.3 ℃; at the same time, the temperature for the experimental groups were as follows: 
Experimental Group B was 32.1 ℃, Experimental Group C was 35.9 ℃, Experimental Group D 
was 37 ℃, and Experimental Group E was 35.7 ℃. The temperature difference between Control 
Group A and Experimental Group B was 13.2℃ under sunny conditions, and the thermal 
performance of the insulation material was as follows: sod roof＞heat insulation paint＞PS 
insulating brick＞integrated painted corrugated sheet＞no insulation material. 
8 
 
thermal properties of reinforced concrete, and the delay in its absorption and radiation of heat. At 
1:20 pm on 2010/07/20 (sunny day sample), the RFIC transmitter measured a high of 36.6 ℃, and at 
the same time, the temperature for the experimental groups were as follows: Control Group A was 
41.3℃, Experimental Group B was 30.7 ℃, Experimental Group C was 34.2 ℃, Experimental 
Group D was 35.7 ℃, and Experimental Group E was 33.4 ℃. Only the Control Group A specimen 
measured a temperature higher than that of the atmosphere with a difference between the two of 4.7 
℃. Hence, Control Group A has the highest internal heat accumulation of concrete structures under 
sunny conditions, as shown in Figure 8. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 Measuring outdoor temperatures of the sunny day sample for specimens A - E 
The rise and fall of temperatures in the specimens with different insulation materials measured 
during the sunny day showed varying rates of heat absorption and radiation, and continual 
temperature differences between the specimens, as shown in Table 1. The internal temperature of the 
RC structures can be affected by insulation material performance, weather, and the rate of heat 
absorption and radiation. STIM makes it easier to monitor these changes. Using Control Group A as 
an example, during the sunny day sample from 7:30 am to 4:30 pm, the temperature rose from 31.2 
℃ to 45.3 ℃, and it was not until 6:25 am the following day that the sample returned to its original 
temperature. The heat absorption time was thus approximately 9 hours, and the heat radiation time 
was approximately 13 hours, giving a factor difference in the heat absorption and heat radiation 
times of nearly 1.4. Experimental Group B had a difference of 1.6 times, Experimental Group C of 
1.3 times, Experimental Group D of 1.3 times, and Experimental Group E had a difference of 1.4 
times. The RC board specimen in Experimental Group B (sod roof) had the fastest heat absorption 
and the slowest heat radiation, with the smallest temperature difference of 3 ℃, and the remaining 
three groups exhibited similar performance, with a heat absorption period of about 9-9.7 hours and a 
heat radiation time of 11.7-12.8 hours (As shown Table 1). 
10 
 
℃. The lowest difference observed, between the integrated painted corrugated sheet specimen and 
Control Group A, also reached 8.2 ℃. Furthermore, it can be seen from Figure 8 that the heat 
absorption and release rates of concrete are very slow, even as the temperature changes rapidly in the 
external environment. The highest temperature of the sunny day sample was observed at 1:20 pm, 
while the temperature of the five specimens reached their maximum between 5:00 pm and 7:00 pm. 
By inspecting the figures in the database, it can be determined that the temperature of the specimens 
did not drop back to the original temperature until between 6 and 7 am during the following morning. 
This explains why the indoor environments of RC buildings often remain hot and require 
air-conditioning even after the exterior temperature has dropped. 
3.Cost-benefit analysis of the energy savings derived from roof insulation materials: Under 
different weather conditions, different temperature differences are seen for different types of 
insulation materials. However, the temperature and weather does not only change with the seasons. 
They change daily and even hourly. Therefore, it is unsuitable to use single measurement values as 
the basis for calculating the energy saving benefits of roof insulation materials. Taking the analysis 
shown in Table 2 as an example, X represents the amount of electricity units saved on 
air-conditioning due to insulation materials, Y represents the summer (June - September) savings in 
energy costs, and Z represents the percentage of energy savings in the summer. When the calculation 
is made based on samples of high or low temperature difference, X, Y, and Z are not fixed values; 
instead, they are a range of values used for reference. However, if long-term and continuous 
temperature differences can be obtained from STIM measurements, it becomes possible to adopt the 
average hourly temperature differences as the reference values for analyzing the energy saving 
benefits of insulation materials. Taking the analysis of sod grass in Table 2 as an example, the 
long-term data measured by STIM can be combined with software simulation or observations of 
actual building cases for analysis. Then, it is possible to find more precise values for electricity units 
saved on air conditioning due to the insulation material (XB), or a more precise definition of XB1 
under high temperature differences and XB2 under low temperature differences. The range of summer 
savings in air conditioning costs (YB1 and YB2) can be calculated based on the electricity rate in each 
area. The average amount of energy savings on air-conditioning (YB) can also be calculated. These 
calculated figures can serve as a basis for a more accurate cost-benefit analysis for the energy saving 
benefits of insulation materials.   
 
 
 
12 
 
Table 3 Model analysis of energy cost efficiency of rooftop insulation material 
Insulation material 
Cost per unit 
(EUR/m2) 
initial cost 
Yearly 
maintenance 
cost 
(EUR/year) 
Life span 
(Year) 
Yearly 
savings 
(EUR/year) 
Payback 
period 
(Year) 
Experimental Group B (sod 
roofs) 
2.6 EUR 858 EUR 476.2 EUR 10 YB EUR 
11240/ YB 
Years 
Experimental Group C (PS 
insulating brick) 
9.5 EUR 3135 EUR 0 20 YC EUR 3135/YC Years 
Experimental Group D 
(integrated painted corrugated 
sheet) 
35.7 EUR 11781 EUR 0 20 YD EUR 
11781/ YD 
Years 
Experimental Group E (heat 
insulation paint) 
4 EUR 1320 EUR 0 5 YE EUR 5280/ YE Years 
5. Conclusion and Suggestions 
This experiment showed that out of the five insulation materials tested, sod grass had the best 
thermal performance during sunny days. The thermal performance of PS insulation bricks, integrated 
painted corrugation sheets, and insulation paint were similar. Temperature changes inside an RC 
concrete structure are influenced by thermal performance, degradation rates, weather conditions, and 
the heat absorption/radiation rate. Using STIM, the innovative sensor technology developed during 
this study, temperature changes can be directly measured, and a volume of data can be collected that 
is large and precise enough to enable statistical analysis and comparisons of various conditions with 
a temperature database. In doing so, a more precise and appropriate standard for choosing insulation 
materials and evaluating energy consumption can be formed. Furthermore, simply calculating the 
heat transmission rates of insulation materials cannot satisfy the material selectors or the evaluators 
of energy efficiency, who need to analyze the needs of different areas, climates, building types, 
usages, and other factors such as the original cost of materials, maintenance costs, service years, and 
the payback period.  
Due to the constraint of the research budget, this research team can only make a limited 
contribution to the development of STIM and the analysis of the effectiveness and applications of 
insulation materials. If more empirical case studies or software simulation results are available to be 
compared with similar research findings, we believe that more contributions will be made in the 
future. The research team also recommends that STIM should be embedded in the standing walls of a 
building envelope to monitor the heat absorption of each side of the building envelope (north, south, 
east, and west) during the four seasons of the year. The monitoring results can be consulted by an 
ACE/FM or an on-site building manager to select insulation materials, evaluate energy efficiency, or 
to perform building health diagnosis in order to ensure the good performance and safe usage of the 
building envelope. 
14 
 
Energy and Buildings 39 (11) (2007) 1140-1150.  
[15] H.L. Zhang, W.M. Marci, X.Z. Fu, Modeling of the hygrothermal absorption and desorption for underground 
building envelopes, Energy and Buildings 42 (8) (2010) 1215-1219. 
[16] A. Ben-Nakhi, A.M. Mahmoud, M.A. Mahmoud, A. Al Dashti, Improving thermal performance of the roof 
enclosure of heavy construction buildings, Applied Energy 85 (10) (2008) 911-930. 
[17] S.A. Al-Sanea, Thermal performance of building roof elements, Building and Environment 37 (7) (2002) 
665-675. 
[18] B. Yesilata, P. Turgut, A simple dynamic measurement technique for comparing thermal insulation 
performances of anisotropic building materials, Energy and Buildings 39 (9) (2007) 1027-1034.  
[19] R. Lindberg, A. Binamu, A. Teikari, Five-year data of measured weather, energy consumption, and 
time-dependent temperature variations within different exterior wall structures, Energy and Buildings 36 (6) 
(2004) 495-501. 
[20] R.T.A. Prado, F.L. Ferreira, Measurement of albedo and analysis of its influence the surface temperature of 
building roof materials, Energy and Buildings 37 (4) (2005) 295-300. 
[21] T. Gu, S.X. Chen, X.P. Tao, J. Lu, An unsupervised approach to activity recognition and segmentation based 
on object-use fingerprints, Data & Knowledge Engineering 69 (6) (2010) 533-544. 
[22] R. Tesoriero, R. Tebar, J.A. Gallud, M.D. Lozano, V.M.R. Penichet, Improving location awareness in indoor 
spaces using RFID technology, Expert Systems with Applications 37 (1) (2010) 894-898. 
[23] E. Ergen, B. Akinci, B. East, J. Kirby, Tracking Components and Maintenance History within a Facility 
Utilizing Radio Frequency Identification Technology, Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering 21 (1) (2007) 
11-20. 
[24] S. Chin, S. Yoon, C. Chio, C. Cho, RFID+4D CAD for Progress Management of Structural Steel Works in 
High-Rise Buildings, Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering 22 (2) (2008) 74-89. 
[25] P.M. Goodrum, M.A. McLaren, A. Durfee, The application of active radio frequency identification technology 
for tool tracking on construction job sites, Automation in Construction 15 (3) (2006) 292-302. 
[26] J.C. Song, C.T. Haas, C.H. Caldas, Tracking the Location of Materials on Construction Job Sites, Journal of 
Construction Engineering and Management-ASCE 132 (9) (2006) 911-918. 
[27] X.L. Zhao, T. Qian, G. Mei, C. Kwan, R. Zane, C. Walsh, T. Paing, Z. Popovic, Active health monitoring of an 
aircraft wing with an embedded piezoelectric sensor/actuator network: II Wireless approaches, Smart 
Materials and Structures 16 (4) (2007) 1218-1225. 
[28] K. Crowley, J. Frisby, S. Murphy, M. Roantree, D. Diamond, Web-based real-time temperature monitoring of 
shellﬁsh catches using a wireless sensor network, Sensors and Actuators A- Physical 122 (2) (2005) 222-230.  
[29] J. Wu, S.F. Yuan, S. Ji, G.Y. Zhou, Y. Wang, Z.L. Wang, Multi-agent system design and evaluation for 
collaborative wireless sensor network in large structure health monitoring, Expert Systems with Applications 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號  NSC 99-2221-E-035-076 
計畫名稱  RFIC 結合溫度感測器之技術在 RC 屋頂隔熱材效能之動態監測應用研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
 張智元 逢甲大學土木系 助理教授 
會議時間地點  Sydney, Australia 
會議名稱 
2011 International Conference on Construction Engineering and Project 
Management  
發表論文題目 
Research and Development of RFIC Technology in Smart Temperature 
Information Material 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
 
本次在澳洲雪梨所舉辦的國際會議活動是由 University of New South Wales 舉辦，會議日期為
2011 年 2 月 16 日-18 日，為期 3 天。邀稿議題包含： Project Management, Project Delivery 
Systems, Legal Systems for Construction, Cost, Time, Quality, and Safety Management, Design and 
Engineering Management, Claim and Dispute Resolution, Information Technology in Construction, 
Automation and Robotics in Construction, Construction Productivity Improvement, Construction 
Education and Training, International and Global Issues in Construction Project Management, 
State-of-the-Art in Construction Engineering and Management, Sustainability and the Environment, 
Building Information Model。報告人的文章被安排在 Information Technology in Construction(1)
這個場次(編號：S14-1)，日期為 2011 年 2 月 18 日早上，本研究的主題是運用 RFIC 結合物
理性感測晶片的技術，進而研發成能置入混凝土內長期量測混凝土內部溫度的 STIM(Smart 
Temperature Information Material)智慧溫感建材，並在會中與參加學者交換意見。 
 
二、 與會心得 
 
會議交流的收穫：本研究在經過簡短的簡報後，在 Q&A 的過程中，除了 section chair
與印度的聽眾的發問外，印象深刻的是來自韓國一位博士生的問題，該生對於我們研發的
STIM(Smart Temperature Information Material)智慧溫感建材十分感興趣，經會後深聊得知對
方也正在使用 RF 技術研發 on-air 的 sensor，對於本研究團隊能應用在混凝土內深感訝異，
  
 
 
30 December 2010 
 
Prof. Chih-Yuan Chang 
Feng Chia University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
 
Dear Prof. Chih-Yuan Chang 
 
2011 International Conference on Construction Engineering and Project Management (ICCEPM) 
16-18 February 2011, Sydney, Australia  
 
Thank you for submitting your paper entitled “Research and Development of RFIC Technology in 
Smart Temperature Information Material” for the 2011 International Conference on Construction 
Engineering and Project Management. It is our pleasure to inform you that your paper has been accepted 
for presentation at the conference. We would therefore like to formally invite you to the ICCEPM-2011 
Conference in Sydney, Australia. 
We look forward to meeting you in Sydney on the 16th of February 2011. Please feel free to contact us if 
you require any further information or assistance. 
 
Yours truly, 
 
 
 
     Prof. David G. Carmichael 
     Conference Chair 
     University of New South Wales 
     Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia 
     E-Mail: d.carmichael@unsw.edu.au 
     Phone: +61-2-9385-6140 
     Fax: +61-2-9385-6139 
Dr. Sangwon Han 
Conference Secretary 
University of New South Wales 
Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia 
E-Mail: s.han@unsw.edu.au 
Phone: +61-2-9385-5988 
Fax: +61-2-9385-6139 
 
are very crucial. Likewise, the related research 
subjects, such as the selection of insulation 
materials and evaluation of their insulation 
performance, are essential. Most buildings in 
Taiwan are of RC structures. For insulation 
treatment of the building roofs, PS-layer 
insulation tiles, plants, varnished corrugated 
sheets, thermal insulation paint are often used to 
block the solar radiation heat from transmitting 
into the indoor space in order to cut down the 
energy consumption of air-conditioning and 
improve the comfortableness of indoor 
environments.           
At present, most studies analyze thermal 
insulation performance of the building shells by 
way of indirect measurement, such as using 
simulation software or calculating thermal 
conductivity coefficients of the materials. The 
results of these studies are very helpful to the 
design and planning of buildings. Nonetheless, if 
a sensor device is developed to monitor the 
thermal variations inside RC structures 
continuously for a long period of time at the 
operation stage of the buildings, the results of 
the direct measurement and analyses will 
provide architects a more concrete reference 
resource when choosing the insulation materials 
and evaluating the insulation performance of 
each material at a building’s design stage. For 
this purpose, this study develops a Smart 
Temperature Information Material (STIM) via 
electronic circuit design. A STIM combines a 
Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit (RFIC) with 
a temperature sensor chip and adopts 
encapsulation boxes to protect the device from 
possible damages. The dimension of the STIM is 
50mm*48mm*50mm (length*width*height), 
which can be buried into a RC structure to 
monitor the continuous changes of temperature 
inside the structure. As to the design of the user 
interface, this study uses Borland C++ Builder to 
develop a Building Physiology Information 
System (BPIS.) The design of BPIS includes a 
database and the human-machine interface. In 
addition to monitoring a RC structure in real 
time, long-term temperature measurement values 
at all sensor points are also recorded. The design 
is useful for analyses of insulation performance 
of insulation materials and evaluation of the 
benefits of energy conservation. The results can 
be consulted by architects and building 
managers when choosing building materials or 
analyzing the energy use of air-conditioning.      
2. The Application of RFIC and RFID to 
Smart Buildings 
2.1 The Application of RF Technology to 
Smart Buildings  
With the arrival of high-tech information 
age, the way of living is changing. In the field of 
architecture, e-planning of the interior 
environment has become a new trend. How to 
make our life safer, healthier, more comfortable, 
and more convenient, more energy efficient, and 
more environments friendly has become the 
focus of our home environment design.  
Recently, Radio Frequency (RF) technologies 
have developed rapidly. Among them, the 
application devices of Radio Frequency 
Identification (RFID) and Radio Frequency 
Integrated Circuit (RFIC) are the most 
noticeable. There are many application products 
of these two technologies on the market. 
Because the transmission techniques of these 
two technologies are different, the areas of their 
applications are also varied. Applications of the 
RFID technology are widely seen in smart living 
space. The wireless identification technology 
can be used in various areas, including access 
cards, transportation passes, library management 
systems, building management, logistics 
management, chip locks for vehicles, animal 
management, and inventory control of drugs and 
equipments. Many studies were conducted for its 
application, such as applying RFID technology 
to study sensor-perception models in smart 
living environments [9]; applying RFID 
technology to the planning of the open building 
concept [10]; storing historical data with RFID 
to improve the efficiency of building 
maintenance [11]; applying RFID for tool 
tracking on construction job sites and improving 
the efficiency in construction [12].  
Applications of RFID to smart buildings mostly 
make use of its identification function to track, 
locate and manage a target. In comparison, RFIC 
has a feature RFID does not have. Design 
software of objective function can be embedded 
in RFIC. After integrating with various kinds of 
sensor chips, information is received with the 
use of RF wireless technology and hardware 
design of receivers. The information received is 
processed and displayed based on the user’s 
design. RFIC can be applied to a wide range of 
uses. For example, Andre N et al. used RFIC to 
monitor real-time breath activity [13]. In 
addition, RFIC integrated with temperature 
sensor chips can be used to measure indoor 
temperature changes when it is on air.             
In 2004, Taiwan started promoting Intelligent 
Building Certification. The certification 
requirements and construction standards include 
Information and Communication, Safety and 
Hazard Prevention, Health and Comfortableness, 
Energy Conservation of Facilities, Generic 
Cabling, Integration of Systems and Facility 
Management [14]. A STIM and BPIS are useful 
to the design and planning of Energy 
Conservation of Facilities and Integration of 
 Fig. 2 RFIC Transmitter 
 
Many problems were encountered during the 
development process of the STIM. For instance, 
RFIC transmitters can not come in direct contact 
with the concrete. Also, moisture inside the 
concrete may rust and damage the chips. As a 
result, it is necessary to design a suitable sealing 
treatment to block air and moisture, and prevent 
the possible damages to RFIC transmitters 
caused by the concrete. The design of 
encapsulation boxes is another important issue. 
The design of data transmission and reception 
can be divided into the sending end and 
receiving end. Some of the sensors at the 
sending end are H/T sensors. Temperature and 
humidity are measured by the sensors. Generally, 
output signals are analog signals. However, a 
micro control unit (MCU) can only process 
digital signals; therefore the analog signals must 
be converted to digital signals. The conversion is 
made by A/D converters built inside the sensors. 
The converted digital signals are sent to the 
MCU for signal processing and encoding. The 
MCU can also control the digital switch and data 
transmission. The digital switch controls the 
power of Xbee.  Data can only be transmitted 
from the sending end to the receiving end after 
the power is switched on. After data is received 
at the receiving end, it is sent to the MCU for 
signal processing. Then, the processed signals 
are transmitted to the computer via 
communication protocols and displayed on the 
user interface of BPIS in real-time. See Fig. 3 
and Fig.4. 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Work Process at the RF Sending End 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 Work Process at RF Receiving End 
 
3.2 Temperature and Humidity Sensors 
The main purpose of this study is to measure 
the dynamic changes of temperature inside a 
building structure. In order to broaden the scope 
of this study, the authors decided to choose a 
sensor which can measure both temperature and 
humidity. Based on the requirements of this 
study, the digital temperature and humidity 
sensor, SHT 1x/7x series, manufactured by S 
company was chosen. See Figure 5. 
 
 
Fig. 5 H/T Sensor 
 
Figure 5 is a picture of the H/T sensor, 
enlarged by a digital microscope. The dimension 
of the sensor head on the top is 
5mm*4mm*2mm (length*width*thickness.) It 
has several advantages: small size, fast response, 
low power consumption, waterproof, high noise 
immunity, long-term stability, and measuring 
both temperature and humidity. Furthermore, all 
H/T sensors are fully calibrated before they are 
sold on the market. The sensors’ chips are of 
high precision. See Table 1 for the precision and 
resolution of the H/T sensor. 
 
Table 1. Precision and Resolution of the H/T 
Sensor 
 
 Temperature Humidity 
Precision ±0.4 ℃ ±3.0 %RH 
 Resolution 0.01 ℃ 0.03 %RH 
 
3.3 The Encapsulation Box 
In order to measure the temperature and 
relative humidity inside the structure of a RC 
structure, the RFIC transmitter must be buried 
into the concrete. Also, to allow for temperature 
day, and on a rainy day), one sample is selected. 
See Figure 10. On the rainy day, the insulation 
benefit of the experimental group is not very 
noticeable. In contrast, the benefit of insulation 
is best shown on the sunny day. The study then 
evaluated the sample on the cloudy day－the 
middle ground between the sunny day and the 
rainy day, and it is found that the maximum 
temperature difference of experimental group 
specimen was 3.5 ℃ . Moreover, the heat 
absorption time was 8.3 hours, and the heat 
emission time was 10.3 hours. The heat 
absorption is faster than heat emission. The heat 
absorption rate is 1.24 times higher than the 
emission rate. The maximum temperature 
difference of control group specimen was 15℃. 
The heat absorption time was 8.8 hours, and the 
heat emission time was 13.5 hours. The heat 
absorption rate was 1.53 times higher than the 
emission rate. As the sample of cloudy day on 
Fig.9 shows, on that day, the maximum 
temperature difference of the experimental group 
and the control group could be as high as 12.7℃ 
(43.4 ℃ -30.7 ℃ .) The air-conditioning was 
turned on for 10 hours a day from 8:00 a.m. to 
18:00 p.m. The authors analyzed the average 
value of daily temperature differences and found 
that the experimental group, which was covered 
by the insulation bricks, on average could block 
8.5 ℃ /per hour during the 10 hours of 
air-conditioning use. For an indoor space of 330 
m2, the reduced energy consumption (electric 
power: 20.2 Kw) each day can be converted into 
a saving of electricity bill for 332 NTD (around 
11 USD.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 10 Temperature Measurements of the 
Insulation Material 
 
Finally, better thermal insulation 
performances of the insulation materials can not 
be always translated into higher energy 
conservation benefits on the building shells since 
another factor-payback period-must be taken 
into account. Two factors are considered when 
calculating the payback period. One factor is the 
total input cost (CF0), which includes the total 
amount of construction and construction cost, 
service life, and the maintenance expense. The 
other factor is the yearly benefit (CF), such as 
the saved electricity expense due to the reduced 
air-conditioning use. Therefore, when building 
managers are evaluating the energy conservation 
benefits of the thermal insulation materials, they 
should consider the thermal insulation 
performance, the material cost, the service life, 
and the total maintenance cost of each insulation 
material.      
5. Conclusions 
Thermal insulation performance of the 
thermal insulation materials are generally 
evaluated based on their thermal conductivity 
coefficients. The approach overlooks that a 
building structure is not of homogeneous 
materials (including concrete, steel bars, pipes or 
gaskets) and the installation quality of the 
thermal insulation materials is not consistent, 
which results in the imprecise evaluation of 
insulation performance. This study is a 
cross-disciplinary study, which incorporates 
expertise from the field of automatic control. 
The STIM is designed by integrating RFIC 
technology with temperature sensors. Then, the 
STIM is embedded into RC structures, and data 
is transmitted via wireless transmission. 
Therefore, the device is not restricted by 
landforms and roof structures and also allows 
building managers monitor the dynamic 
temperature changes on the user’s interface of 
BPIS system remotely. When ACE/FM or 
on-site building managers evaluate the benefits 
of energy conservation, they can also consult the 
long-term data of dynamic temperature changes 
as the basis for analyzing the thermal insulation 
performance of thermal insulation materials.               
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The research team acknowledges with gratitude 
the 2010 research grant issued by National 
Science Council (Project no: NSC 
99-2221-E-035-076) 
REFERENCES 
[1] Chih-Yuan Chang, Wen-Hsiung Hsiao, 
Shyh-Meng Huang and Sy-Jye Guo, “Supply 
and Demand for Building Health Check”, 
Journal of Architecture, No.59, pp.93~112, 
Taipei(2007). 
[2] Ding-Chin Chou and Jih-Jer Chiou, “A Study 
on the Insulation Performance of a Double Skin 
Roof Induced by Natural Ventilation”, Journal of 
Architecture, No.59, pp.79~92, 2007. 
[3] Alvarado, Jorge L., Terrell, Wilson, Jr., 
Johnson, Michael D., “Passive cooling systems 
for cement-based roofs”, Building and 
The Control 
Group 
2010.07.27
Rainy day 
2010.07.18 
Sunny day 
2010.07.24 
Cloudy day 
The Experimental
Group 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/07/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: RFIC結合溫度感測器之技術在RC屋頂隔熱材效能之動態監測應用研究
計畫主持人: 張智元
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-035-076- 學門領域: 建築都巿
無研發成果推廣資料
期刊論文 2 1 100% 
1. Chih-Yuan Chang 
and San-Shan 
Hung, ’Implementing 
RFIC and sensor 
technology to measure 
temperature and 
humidity inside 
concrete 
structures’, 
Construction and 
Building Materials 
(IF=1.366 / 
Ranking=7/53=12%), 
(2011.06.18 accepted 
for publication) 
2. Chih-Yuan Chang, 
San-Shan Hung, 
Yu-Chueh Chang and 
Yu-Fang Peng 
(2011), ’Research 
and Development of 
RFIC Technology in 
Smart Temperature 
Information 
Material’, Journal 
of Construction 
Engineering and 
Project 
Management(Online 
ISSN 2233-9582), 
Vol.01, No.01, 
pp.18-23. 
 
 
國外 論文著作 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
