2一、 前言
在政府積極推動光電半導體以及面板產業下，發光二極體(LED), 有機發光二極體
(OLED)等光電元件在現今的眾多產業中，前景持續看好。尤其，最近在白光 LED、近程光
纖通訊、與超薄顯示面板的強烈市場需求下，更是受到業界與學界的高度重視., LCD 目前
較常採用 CCFL 作為背光光源，但因 CCFL 背光驅動線路複雜，要求驅動電壓高，及演色
性能力等等因素，再加上背光的光源是系統中耗電量最大的部分，所以在功率限制日趨嚴
苛的情況下，目前已逐漸被產業討論將使用 LED 作為代替。
省電亮度高的 LED 發光二極體，在生活中逐漸取代傳統的燈泡，大部分白光的 LED
在製作過程中都需要混合螢光粉，才能夠達到發光的目的，降低 LED 溫度及元件散熱為一
迫切的研發方向。為滿足節能及環保的需求，針對不同應用與不同的功耗範圍，全球許多
政府及能源機構的各種新的能耗標準也紛紛出爐。同時，更加嚴格的規範也在制定中。降
低能耗成為一項無法回避的重要議題，所以對電源管理也提出了更高的要求。
與傳統光源相比，利用發光二極體(LED)產生與太陽光色相似的白光，具有零汞污染、
耗電量低、發光效率高等多方面的優點，因此以白光 LED 大幅取代傳統日光燈等照明，是
照明光源科技領域積極研發的重要目標，LED 最大的特點在於：無須暖燈時間(idling time)、
反應速度很快(約在 10-9 秒)、體積小、用電省、污染低、適合量產，具高可靠度，容易配
合應用上的需要製成極小或陣列式的元件，適用範圍頗廣，如汽車、通訊產業、電腦、交
通號誌、顯示器等.
近十餘年來電子及光電產品已成為我國最重要產業，隨著精緻及快速化的腳步，各項
產品漸縮小體積，而功能及速度卻成倍數之成長，因此也面臨所產生之熱量如何在狹小空
間中移除的問題。在電子及光電產品產生故障之各項因素比率中，有四分之三以上（76%）
源自於溫度與溼度問題。散熱問題是否能解決，已成為此產業未來持續發展的重要關鍵。
以「高效率傳熱、微熱流之電子、光電熱流技術及光機電整合最佳化」為本研究之研究重
點.
二、 目的：
如何降低LED發光源溫度及散熱元件結構設計, 以提高LED光電效率為一當前重要課
題. 研究基於在先進半導體廠製程研發多年實務經驗, 將基於半導體實務經驗針對熱及應
力對光電半導體 LED/OLED 元件之”熱/電/光/機”…等特性”整合”, 發展模擬與設計
研發最佳熱及結構產品結構, 以及光及電之最佳特性, 更進一部並實驗分析研討.探討 LED
元件特性受熱船及機械應力之影響, 因LED元件為達到良率提升及電子元件特性需求,經常
變換製程與封裝方式(package),
研究第一年先以 LED 熱設計分析為主.
三、 文獻探討
Heat management is still an important issue for these white high power LEDs. Hu et al. [1]
4analysis based on ANSYS software for high-power white LED were presented in this thesis.
Package structures were optimized based on the result of thermal analysis. Considering cost and
dimensional limitation, the thermal structural optimization of LED was achieved. Taking the
most optimum design, a prototype of the improved LED is fabricated and the thermal resistance
performance is compared with the simulation result.
四、 研究方法
A 3-D thermal analysis Fig.1 was made by steady thermal simulation using the Finite
Element Method –COMSOL software. This study endeavors to clarify this situation by
evaluating the mechanism by which the thermal performance of a LED package. The packages
under investigation employ different configuration of GaN-based chip as Fig.2 and Table 1 which
base on Epistar Corporation AlGaInP series LED chip, test condition, and enhancement design.
The feature of LED chip is High luminous intensity, Long operation life, and Low driving current
applications. The designs of LED packages resulted in significantly different thermal behaviors.
Thermal behaviors, described as thermal resistance, of the three packaging designs were
compared and evaluated as functions of bulk thermal resistance, spreading resistance, and surface
roughness. It was demonstrated that the junction temperature decreases with the effective contact
area ratio in the LED packages.
Fig.1 The specification of LED analysis Model
Fig.2 The specification of LED chip
Table 1 Electro-Optical characteristics and specification of LED chip
(a) LED Chip Model (b) Simulation Element
(c) LED Heat Transfer 3-D simulation Model
Q=)(-k
t
Cp T
T 


Unit: mil
3.9 8 9
6.7
P-electrode
Epi-layers
Substrate
N-electrode
Parameter Symbol Condition Rateing Unit
Forward current If Ta=25oC <50 mA
Pluse forward current Ifm Ta=25oC <100 mA
Reverse voltage Vr Ta=25oC = 10 V
Junction temperature Tj Ta=25oC <100 oC
Parameter Symbol Condition Rateing Unit
Forward current I Ta=25oC <30 mA
EPISTAR Corportation LED chip Product
For AlGaInP 12 mil Chips
For AlGaInP 9mil Chips
6Fig.4 3-D LED package mesh grids and analysis model
In this model a total heat transfer coefficient, h , is used, which has terms accounting for natural convection,
forced convection, and radiation heat transfer, which applies to natural, mixed, and forced convection regimes
[10],[11] and includes the contribution of radiation is calculated from
)()),(),(( 3
133 ThVLhTLhh RADAirFCNC  ………………………………………………………(2)
where L is the package width, T is the temperature of the surface, and VAIR is the free-stream air velocity due to forced
convection. A number of the simulation elements depend on the total heat transfer coefficient, h , which is a
function of temperature. This formalism is more rudimentary than many of the treatments in the literature [12] and
[13]. The choice of this formalism is justified in the data analysis in which it is shown that the thermal resistance of
the laminate contributes only a small part to the total value of ja .
五、 結果與討論
RESULTS AND DISSICUTION
LEDs have been generally used and applied quickly in all kinds of feasibilities in our daily lives. The model was
verified using a LED package under natural, mixed, and forced convection conditions. It was then used to predict the
thermal performance of LED packages of widely varying size and package thermal enhancement. The simulation
values are compared and corrected with the product values of industry. The need for a board width less than the
actual value is expected since the two simplifying assumptions in the calculation of the board conductivity. These
results indicate a good agreement between the model and the industry package performance in natural, mixed, and
forced convection regimes.
The model was used to predict the thermal performance of LED packages on standard FR4 PCB, of widely
varying power generation and cooling thermal enhancement condition. The packages are specified as 0.1, 0.25, 0.5,
1W of power generation chip in package on PCB. The die sizes assumed for each 9mil*9mil*6.7 mil. Fig.5 show
shows the variation of temperature in case of package at an input power of 0.1W. Comparisons were also made for
temperature distribution with different cooling and power generation of package. Note that the in the case, where
the LED of Fig.5b is much cooler than Fig.5a at a heat input due to the air cooling flow around surface area. The
device ran much cooler on the forced convection since air flow has a much lower thermal resistance and was thus
able to conduct the heat away faster to the ambient.
Fig.5 Comparison of temperature distributions of different cooling enhancement of LED package
Fig. 6 contains a graph of chip temperature versus air velocity predicted by the model for each of package.
The reduction in the value ofja is from increased convective heat transfer coefficient for forced convection from the
(a) Nature Convection, q=0.1W, Standard PCB
(b) Force Convection, q=0.1W, Standard PCB
8Fig.8 Comparison of PCB structure effects for LED thermal characteristics
Furthermore, the comparison discussion, a thermal modeling technique for LED packaging with the use of a
heat slug will be highlighted. Different high thermal conductive heat sink included in LED package and mounted
on test PCB was studied. In Fig.9, heat flux from the heat slug was found to be significant, and then the LED chip
temperature obvious runs much cooler Comparisons were also made for the highest temperature distribution with
different materials of heat slug. The device with the heat slug ran much cooler since heat slug has a much lower
thermal resistance and was thus able to conduct the heat away faster to the heat sink. LED reliability and lifetime
would be improved if higher conductivity heat slug materials are used. In table3, using heat slug, which thermal
resistant of LED package was reduced 20% than the thermal resistance over conventional package geometries,
requires the operation at heat transfer enhancement.
Fig.9 Comparison of heat slug effects on thermal resistant
Table 3 Comparison of heat slug effects on thermal resistant efficiency
In order to achieve package reliability and optimal performance for LED, appropriate thermal management is
necessary. The correlations between chip size and thermal performance were shown in Fig.10 and Table 4. As
chip size was increased, the heat transfer area and path were also increase. The technique would be modified so
Ambient Temperature 30 Deg-C
Component Surface mount PCB
PCB Dimension 76 * 76 *1.5 mm
Board Material-Type FR4
Standard FR4PCB 35 mm Cu
Metal Core FR4-PCB 70 mm Cu
Thick Cu Metal Core FR4-PCB 150 mm Cu
Test Surface mount PCB
C
hi
p
T
em
pe
ra
tu
re
(o
C
)
30
50
70
90
110
130
150
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2
50
100
150
200
250
300
Standard FR4-PCB Metal Core FR4-PCB Thick Cu Metal Core FR4-PCB
Power (W)
j
a
(o
C
)
25%
C
hi
p
T
em
pe
ra
tu
re
(o
C
)
j
a
(o
C
)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
1600.1 W 0.25 W 0.5 W 1 W0.1 W 0.25 W 0.5 W 1 W
C
hi
p
T
em
pe
ra
tu
re
(o
C
)
No Heat SLUG
Fe Heat Slug
Cu Heat Slug
Carbon nano-tube
Nature Convection
Forced Convection
C
hi
p
T
em
pe
ra
tu
re
(o
C
)
Thermal Resistant, θja No Heat SLUG Fe Heat Slug Cu Heat Slug Carbon nano-tube
Nature Convection, V=0 m/s 113.75 101.54 100.25 98.79
Heat Slug Efficiency 10.73% 11.87% 13.15%
Forced Convection, V=5 m/s 69.08 57.91 56.84 56.65
Heat Slug Efficiency 16.17% 17.72% 17.99%
10
六、 計畫成果自評
本計畫經 12 個月執行後研究人員完成
1. LED 元件封裝散熱製程影響參數分析與分析模式
2. 半導體封裝熱傳增情封裝新形式封裝建立與熱傳分析
3. 半導體後段製程整合模是式建立與改善製程整合方式
研究執行國際研討會發表論文
1. Chun Jen Weng, “Advanced Thermal Enhancement and management of LED Packages”,
7th International Symposium on Heat Transfer (ISHT 7), October 26-29, 2008 in
Beijing, China.
2. Chun Jen Weng,“Novel Approach of Semiconductor BEOL Processes Integration”, No.8,
Sec.26, Electronics/MEMS Symp., SEM Annual Conference & Exposition on
Experimental and Applied Mechanics, Orlando Florida, USA, June 2 - 5, 2008, (EI)
3. Chun Jen Weng , W.K. Yeh, C-C Ou “A Metrology of Semiconductor BEOL Nano
technology on Lithography and Gap Fil Processes Integration”, The 7th International
Semiconductor Technology Conference (ISTC2008), D-20, March 15-17, 2008, Shanghai,
China
4. Chun Jen Weng, “A Novel Sub-Micron Semiconductor Gap Fil Integrated Processes”,
NO.185, 2007 IEEE International Conference on Electron Devices and Solid-State
Circuits (EDSSC), IC Manufacturing and Packaging, Tainan , Taiwan on Dec. 20-22,
2007. (EI)
5. Chun Jen Weng, “Advanced Enhanced High Heat Dissipation Package Structures”,
No.61, 2007 IEEE International Conference on Electron Devices and Solid-State
Circuits (EDSSC), IC Manufacturing and Packaging, Tainan , Taiwan on Dec. 20-22,
2007. (EI)
研究執行國際期刊發表論文(已接獲邀稿並已投稿)
 Chun Jen Weng, “Novel Approach of Semiconductor BEOL Processes Integration”,
Strain Journal (submitted)
陸續已經投稿論文於今年(2008)國際學術研討會
1. Chun Jen Weng, “Thermal modeling of enhancement LED package “, 2008 IEEE
International Conference on Electron Devices and Solid-State Circuits (EDSSC), Hong
Kong, December 8-10, 2008
2. Chun Jen Weng, “Evaluation of Defects Reduction and Patern Abnormal on 
Semiconductor Copper Dual Damascene Process “,2008 IEEE International Conference
on Electron Devices and Solid-State Circuits (EDSSC), Hong Kong, December 8-10,
1行政院國家科學委員會補助參與國際學術組織會議報告
97年 06月 11 日
報告人姓名 翁俊仁 服務機構 立德管理學院 職稱 助理教授
中文：實驗力學學會第 11屆國際會議
會議正式名稱
英文：SEM XI International Congress & Exposition on Experimental and Applied Mechanics
會 議 時 間 自 97年 6月 2日
至 97年 6月 5日
地點（國、州、城市）美國 佛羅里達
奧蘭多
發表論文題目: Novel Approach of Semiconductor BEOL Processes Integration
一、 參加會議經過
美國實驗力學學會第 11屆國際會議 (SEM XI International Congress
& Exposition on Experimental and Applied Mechanics) 於二○○八年六月
二日至五日，在美國佛羅里達州奧蘭多市(Orlando) 舉行。這次會議由美
國實驗力學學會主辦，係屬每四年一次擴大舉行的國際會議。同時，台灣
的機械工程學會(CSME)也是本會的贊助會員之一，成功地促進了台灣機
械工程學會與國際間的交流。
本屆實驗力學會議所收錄的論文，共計約兩百九十四篇論文，涵蓋基
礎以及應用力學。大會將這些論文區分成大約分為一百一十二個子題
(Section)，以七組同時進行論文報告。本屆會議有四場傑出研究者的演講
(plenary speakers)，分別是：Ryszard 主講”微機電(MEMS)驅勢與未來方
向”Robert 的 “On the Development of Micro-lattice Structures as Core
Materials in Sandwich Construction”Yoshiharu 的”Whole Field Optical 
Systems and Image Processing Techniques for Shape and Deformation
Measurements”以及 Arun 的”Experimental Studies on Dynamic Failure and
Shock Loading Response of Composite Materials as Core Materials in
Sandwich Construction”
同時並有機械,量測及期刊書籍展示分別為：PCB Piezotronics, Inc.
Photo-Sonics, Inc. Photron, SPIE,Springer,Stress Photonics Inc., Tekscan,
IncTexas Measurements, Inc. Trilion Quality Systems, Wiley-Blackwell等。
3三、 建議
本次會議論文涵蓋實驗力學的研究、發展以及在工程、生物醫學或
力學上的應用及微觀電子新科技在力學上應用與研就，可幫助與會者吸
收新知並掌握未來研究方向。藉由此次會議的參加，發現許多國外好的
研究，皆由民間企業的研究機構或實驗室所推動，真正是結合了理論與
實際，產學共研。並且藉由與國內資深教授的指導與帶領下﹐能夠學習
如何參與國際會議並能了解全世界先進科技與研究﹐學術界團隊參與更
能夠向先進學習﹐進而提升研究。
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容
Proceeding of 2008 SEM XI International Congress & Exposition on
Experimental and Proceeding of 2008 SEM XI International Congress &
Exposition on Experimental and Applied Mechanics 光碟一片
Fig.1 SEM 2008 會場
Novel Approach of Semiconductor BEOL Processes Integration
Chun-Jen Weng
cjweng825@yahoo.com.tw
Department of Science and Technology Management
Leader University
Tainan, 709
Taiwan, R.O.C.
Keywords : BEOL, Process Integration, Lithography, Gap-Fill, Semiconductor
ABSTRACT
The performance of the manufacturing process in each of these areas
determines the overall manufacturability of the process. As device
geometries are reduced, understanding and minimizing the sources of
process-induced defects is critical to achieving and maintaining high device
yields. This paper presents comprehensive the investigating a novel
metrology on semiconductor process module integration and technology on
optimal integrated lithography processes and solution to the problem of defects
reduction on semiconductor wafer in sub-micron processes integration. As
duel damascene integration copper process is complicated and critical in
semiconductor processes. It has been common knowledge that pattern
collapse and missing of this process and numerous defects could be
prevented by optimal the process module tuning. To investigate novel
semiconductor process integration on deep pattern aspect ratio effects of
sub-micron CMOS semiconductor BEOL (Back-End-Of-Line) structure were
included in this study. Moreover, the electrical device investigations of device
checking were also included.
INTRODUCTION
For efficient yield of integrated circuits (IC's) wafer fabrication, successful development
and implementation of new processes technologies requires optimization of all parameters
that can impact final device yield. Key areas of focus are transistor performance
characteristics, device module integration, process integration, and process-induced
defects. The newly developed process flow revealed that the major defect source is in key
fact capable of producing “kiler” defects at high densities. The works of defect review of the
investigation and characteristics of the defect follows with a critical area analysis calculation
to estimate the yield impact. In semiconductor industry, the tight geometries found in small
feature sizes, higher pattern density and high aspect ratio contribute to the faster chips the
market demands, but also require improved performance with respect to defect density.
The striation phenomena were always occurred on sub-micron semiconductor processes,
Proceedings of the XIth International Congress and Exposition
June 2-5, 2008 Orlando, Florida USA
©2008 Society for Experimental Mechanics Inc.
BEOL for advanced ULSI interconnect. Leavey et al. [11] investigate on advanced
process control based on lithographic defect inspection and reduction. They proposed
methodology based on post-lithographic defect inspection and defective die count analysis
was employed which provided effective process monitoring and yield maintenance. The
methodology allows rapid decision-making with a minimum of information for post-litho lot
disposition. Peterson et al. [12] investigate the Sample Planner cost model was applied to
the full range of available defect inspection technologies and sampling strategies based on
the commonly known defect mechanisms that occur in the lithography area. From this a
recommended optimum sampling and monitoring strategy was obtained. Lee et al. [13]
study Investigation and elimination of sphere defects in the isolation module. Their
experiments were performed to identify the defect source and determine the mechanism of
defect formation. This paper describes some of the defect reduction activities performed
during the evaluation of two new device technologies. In-line inspections were implemented
in key process modules to monitor for process and integration-related defect issues.
Consequently, an optimal and novel metrology that enables the yield enhancement
of CMOS without accompanying the increase of process steps has been strongly desired in
semiconductor processes integration. In semiconductor sub-micron process integration
and development, it is difficult to maintain high effects on yield and device performance due
to process control, because of the complicate structure and stress induced on
semiconductor wafer. Therefore, for deep sub-micron semiconductor era, process
technology is desired for achieving a high performance device. The present invention
relates to a process for forming semiconductor process integration and defect defects
reduction. More particularly, the present invention relates to a lithography gap-filling
process for forming semiconductor BEOL processes fabrication.
METHODS
The biggest changes occur with respect to the low-k dielectric in logic devices and
copper interconnects for semiconductor process integration. The major reliability challenges
that must be overcome to achieve the scaling targets for future integrated circuits (ICs) are
at the BEOL process. A novel method for processing IC designs for different metal BEOL
processes is provided for enabling fabricating using a metal fabrication process an IC
originally having a backend design for a different metal fabrication process. The method
can be used to convert a backend design of an IC from an old metal process (such as Cu
micro process) to a new metal process (such as Cu sub-micro process), without
redesigning the IC for the new metal BEOL fabrication process.
A gap-filling process, comprising the steps of: providing a substrate having a
dielectric layer thereon, wherein the dielectric layer has an opening therein; forming a
gap-filling material layer over the dielectric layer and inside the opening, wherein material
constituting the gap-filling material layer is a photo-resist material or a bottom anti-reflection
coating material; removing a portion of the gap-filling material from the gap-filling material
layer to expose the dielectric layer; and conducting a gap-filling material treatment for
forming a protective layer on an exposed surface of the gap-filling material layer, wherein
the protective layer is not formed over the entire substrate but formed on the exposed
surface of the gap-fitting material layer; wherein the gap-filling material treatment includes
conducting an ultra-violet curing or a chemical immersion.
As semiconductor process is complicated and trade off among each module
processes, the process tuning and electrical device become more difficult. Weng et al. [14]
[15] proposed a gap-filling process patents on BEOL process. A gap-filling material
semiconductor fabrication processes will not be without its technological challenges.
Damascene structure refers to the practice of forming inter-connecting wires first developed
by the ancient artisans of dual damascene structure. Dual damascene structure, including
single damascene structure and dual damascene structure, is essential nowadays in the
fabrication of inter-connecting wires in semiconductor devices, especially in the fabrication
of copper inter-connecting wires. For implementing of damascene structure, a photo-resist
pattern is first formed onto a dielectric layer positioned on a substrate to define the positions
of via holes to be etched. The serious problem is wafer pattern missing during damascene
structure of wafer fabrication. Pattern missing and collapse describes a phenomenon
whereby a capillary effect causes photo-resistant patterns to disintegrate during the
developing process, due to the use of increasingly photo-resistant and high aspect ration
pattern. As semiconductor fabrication process is complicated, optimal process integration
of dual damascene manufacturing method of a BEOL metal trench was presented in this
study.
Figure 1 shows the standard film deposition and physical structure after BEOL copper
CMP process. As metal interconnect line aspect ration and pattern density increased, these
schemes could be complicate and challengeable with etching and lithography process
infrastructure. At the BEOL scheme, leading device makers implemented the first porous
low-k chemical vapor deposition (CVD) films at the critical levels, which represented an
enormous integration and engineering challenge for the Fabs.
Accordingly, the photo-resist pattern used to define via holes becomes more
sophisticated, and therefore has a poor adhesion to the dielectric layer. This makes the
photo-resist pattern collapse easily during the etching process. As copper semiconductor
wafer process, the physical dimension shows as Fig.1. The process development,
characterization and performance evaluation of low-k dielectrics to form multi-level Cu
interconnects for the sun-micro CMOS technology was presented. The aspect ration is
increasing as electrical device needed. Significant modifications and improvements have
been implemented to overcome those challenges as design rules shrink, via/trench
processes optimization.
Fig.1 Semiconductor standard film deposition and physical structure after BEOL copper
CMP process.
One of the significant difficults in multi-level interconnects that may be implemented by
process tuning and optimal integration. As semiconductor fabrication process is
complicated, standard copper dual damascene manufacturing method of a BEOL metal
trench was presented in Fig 2. A dual damascene process can be used to form an
interconnection on semiconductor. In this process, the copper vias are processed using
copper damascene just after the contact layer and before the back-end-of-line (BEOL)
wide Metal / Via
narrow Metal / Via
BEOL
FEOL
Metal interconnect
Dielectric
material
easy to observe by in microscope checking pattern CD (Critical Dimension) on
semiconductor process line. However, the phenomena will cause serious defects and
yield loss after WAT (Wafer Accept Test). The liquid-coating striation causes not flat on
coated material, which will cause pattern missing and collapse on lithograph and etching
process. Accordingly, the photo-resistant pattern is tightly fastened during the etching
process, and thus the trench is perfectly formed as desired. The striation phenomena were
distributed radically, which is key factor on low-yield and pattern missing. The abnormal
pattern issue results in influence of serious defects line process development control
strategies
Fig.3 Striation and defects result from pattern missing around wafer
The integration of new BEOL low-k dielectrics and copper, for example, continue to
present many technical challenges. Whether it's in the front end or the back end of the
process line, the cleaning, stripping, and other preparation of the wafer surface becomes
more challenging as geometries shrink to 65 and 45 nm and beyond. The majority of
BEOL challenges fall into the yield and reliability category and can be the most difficult to
diagnose and solve. These issues include pattern missing, peeling, dielectric breakdown,
and defectivity. As damascene structure, a photo-resist pattern missing, etching selectivity
and chemical mechanical polish are especially challengeable during damascene structure
of wafer fabrication. As BEOL film stack depends on the electrical device required and
module process needed, the dielectric film buffer is extreme high for etching selectivity and
CMP buffer loss as Fig.4. Consequently, the high film stack and high high-aspect-ratio line
used in damascene processes of BEOL manufacturing challenges.
Fig.4 Semiconductor film deposition module process buffer and physical structure after
BEOL copper CMP process
Defects monitor Pattern
Missing
SiNx
Copper
SiOx
Copper
VIA~6500A
Trench~6500 A
CMP process loss buffer~1000 A
Etching process loss buffer~ 1000A
Unit:A
SiOx
Process buffer
~2000A
SiNx
SiOX
Accordingly, the photo-resist pattern developed later will have a better and sharp shape
as desired. Via hole is filled with a gap filler prior to forming the trench, therefore the edge
of via hole is not damaged during the etching process for forming the trench. In addition,
photo-resist and ARC films are consecutively formed over the dielectric layer for not only
absorbing light beams in the exposure process, but particularly for increasing the adhesion
of the photo-resist pattern. Accordingly, the photo-resist pattern is tightly fastened during
the etching process, and thus the trench is perfectly formed as desired. As feature sizes
continue to shrink BEOL processes are required to deliver high resolution and, sufficiently
wide process windows. Considering the etching selectivity, loading effects, and aspect
ratio, the photo-resistant easily to collapse after lithography developed process. Fig.7
shows the in-line process abnormal pattern phenomena check. The abnormal pattern
collapse phenomena were shown in the right part, which results in the electrical pattern
missing and open during wafer electrical accept test and yield loss in mass production.
Consequently, Fig7 indicates the dense patterns were easy to collapse than isolation
interconnect pattern. Therefore, the etch selectivity in pattern transfer becomes a critical
concern from lithography photo resistant pattern developing. The abnormal process
development phenomena indicate that photo-resistant abnormal phenomena may result
pattern top rounding, electrical bridge, and pattern collapse on pattern developing process.
The photo-resistant remain effects the pattern physical structure, moreover, the
photo-resistant remain of dense pattern issues shown as Fig.5 to 7 the cross section of
isolation and dense pattern.
Fig.7 Trench pattern abnormal process-photo resistant collapse on dense pattern
Accordingly, the object of the present invention is to provide a gap-filling process
capable of producing a gap-filling material layer with an improved surface planarity so that a
subsequently formed bottom anti-reflection coating or photo-resist layer over the gap-filling
material layer also has a better surface planarity. A substrate having a dielectric layer
thereon is provided. The dielectric layer has an opening therein. A gap-filling material
layer is formed over the dielectric layer and inside the opening. A portion of the gap-filling
material is removed from the gap-filling material layer to expose the dielectric layer. A
gap-filling material treatment of the surface of the gap-filling material layer and the dielectric
layer is carried out to planarize the gap-filling material layer so that a subsequently formed
bottom anti-reflection coating or material layer over the gap-filling material layer can have a
high degree of planarity. However, as pattern density and aspect ration increased,
photo-resistant recess issue occurred around the density patterns as Fig 8. Gap fill
resistant recess issue will result in photo-resistant deeply recess and not enough.
Isolation v.s. Dense pattern
PRTop View
Cross-section View
via trench edge and lightly level surface before photo resistant coating and pattern
development.
Fig.9 A Metrology Nano technology on Lithography Gap Fill Processes
In this process integration study, the gap-filling material layer is etched to form a planar
surface. Hence, any layer deposited over the gap-filling material layer can have a high
level of planarity that facilitates the formation of a correct pattern in subsequent
photolithographic and etching operation. In summary, this invention sets up a gap-filling
material treatment to etch back the gap-filling material layer so that the gap-filling material
layer and the cap layer (also the dielectric layer) on each side of the depressed cavity in the
upper surface is removed. Since the gap-filling material layer has a plane upper
photolithographic and etching processes. Since the gap-filling material layer and the
subsequently formed bottom anti-reflection coating or material layer have a high degree of
planarity, a correct pattern is reproduced after photo lithographic and etching processes.
After new gap fill process integration metrology developed, there is not any pattern
collapses and mission on dense and isolated pattern around wafer center and edge on
process even high aspect ratio metal interconnect. Fig.10 indicates the pattern the
high-density pattern after lithography process ADI (After Development Inspection) and ADI
(After Etching Inspection) on process in-line check points. There is no pattern collapse,
missing phenomena found. The top rounding on metal interconnects and pattern short,
which results from absence of lithography photo-resistant thickness or photo-resistant
development collapse from pattern high aspect ration need were also recovered by present
process integration metrology. Figure 11 was shown the lithography photo-resistant
development remains are enough for etching process even dense density pattern. After
via etching process, via interconnects profile are good, and the etching selectivity issue by
photo-resistant was not found. As electrical device needs, the semiconductor BEOL
process is challengeable and marginal in module process integration. Moreover, the
physical dimension of interconnects trench pattern were also shown in Fig.12. From SEM
cross-section check, the top and bottom trench patterns were not found rounding and
abnormal physical geometry, the may not results in electrical device mismatch. After
semiconductor copper metal process, the TEM physical cross-sections were also checks on
copper meal interconnects as Fig.13 shown. From Fig.10 to Fig 13, there is no pattern
missing and abnormal physical geometry on interconnect line by step-by-step in-line check
and verification.
Add Etching / CMP
process treatment
dielectric film
surface
PREtching Treatment Surface
Photo resistant gap fill
BARC / Photo resistant Coating
for trench process
metrology was adopted in semiconductor process.
Fig.14 Electrical device open/short pattern
Fig.15 Electrical device open/short data comparison
CONCLUSIONS
Accordingly, one object of the present invention is to provide a gap-filling process
capable of producing a gap-filling material layer with an improved surface planarity so that a
subsequently formed bottom anti-reflection coating or photo-resist layer over the gap-filling
material layer also has a better surface planarity. In summary, this invention sets up a
gap-filling material treatment to etch back the gap-filling material layer so that the gap-filling
material layer and the cap layer (also the dielectric layer) on each side of the depressed
cavity in the upper surface is removed. Since the gap-filling material layer has a plane
upper surface, any subsequently formed bottom anti-reflection coating or material layer can
have a similar high degree of planarity. Ultimately, a correct pattern is reproduced after
photo lithographic and etching processes. The pattern collapse and striation phenomena
would be overcome during wafer fabrication processes. Consequently, the productivity
yield will be also increased.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The author gratefully acknowledge supporting and assistance of NSC 96-2221-E-
426–007.” in this study
REFERENCES
[1] Jeng et al., BEOL process integration of 65nm Cu/low k interconnects, Interconnect
Technology Conference, 2004. Proceedings of the IEEE 2004 International Volume ,
Issue, 7-9, pp.199–201, 2004.
VD=1V VS=0V
PAD PAD
Wafer 1 Wafer 2 Wafer 3
