行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
三葉螺旋式靜態混合器置於管流內之熱傳增益性能分析 
 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-131-028 
執行期限：99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：章哲寰教授 明志科技大學機械工程系暨機電工程研究所 
計畫參與人員：許朝棟 明志科技大學機電工程研究所 
              楊家瑞 明志科技大學機電工程研究所 
 
一、中文摘要 
本研究中於空管式熱交換器內置入新
研製之三葉螺旋式靜態混合器(Tri-Helical 
Static Mixer, THSM)以增強熱傳效能，主要
是增加接觸面積與速度梯度所造成，並將
此裝置與空管式熱交換器利用商業計算流
體力學軟體 Ansys Fluent™進行數值模擬比
較，依其內建之納維爾史托克方程式
(Navier-Stokes equations)與波西涅斯克理
論(Bossinesq theory)，求解出摩擦係數( f )
及紐賽數(Nu)。並選擇 κ－ε 紊流模式於雷
諾數為(Re = 5000～50000)時，探討不同雷
諾數之三維不可壓縮流流場所產生之熱傳
增益變化。  
    由數值模擬結果顯示，在相同雷諾數
條件下，於空管內置入三葉螺旋式靜態混
合器(THSM)，以判別熱傳性能特性之無因
次參數－紐賽數(Nu)部份，THSM 型約較
空管式(Empty tube)約上升 70％以上的熱
傳率；於摩擦係數( f )亦有相當程度提升。
本分析可提供將三葉螺旋式靜態混合器應
用於熱交換能源工程之理論依據。 
 
 關鍵字：三葉螺旋式靜態混合器、熱交
換器、熱傳增益、摩擦係數、紐賽數 
Abstract 
    In the present study, a novel invention 
of tri-helical static mixer is inserted into 
pipes within heat exchangers to increase heat 
transfer due to its advantages of contact area 
and increasing velocity gradient. The heat 
transfer characteristic of inserting THSM in 
pipes are compared with empty tube heat 
exchangers by using computational fluid 
software “Ansys Fluent™”. Navier-Stokes 
equations and Bossineq theory are solved for 
friction factor and Nusselt number. The κ－ε 
turbulent model is utilized to analyze the 3D 
steady incompressible flow field to 
investigate the heat transfer enhancement for 
Reynolds number ranges from 5,000 to 
50,000. 
    Results show that for a fixed Reynolds 
number, the dimensionless parameter 
(Nusselt number) which is used to determine 
the heat transfer performance of inserting 
THSM in pipes is increased about 10％ 
compared with that of inserting KSM in 
pipes. Furthermore, about 70％ increase of 
the heat transfer for inserting THSM in pipes 
when comparing with the case of empty tube. 
However, the friction factor of inserting 
THSM in pipes is increased 21％ compared 
with that of inserting KSM in pipes. The 
present analysis can provide a theoretical 
basis for the application of the tri-helical 
static mixer in the heat exchanger energy 
engineering. 
 
Key words: tri-helical static mixer, heat 
exchanger, heat transfer enhancement, 
friction factor, Nusselt number 
 
二、緣由與目的 
鑒於世界能源日漸稀微與環保意識概
念抬頭，各產業對於有效利用能源之需求
之幾何外型模擬後，再依分析結果進行需
求探討及成本評估儼然已成為目前最受重
視的一環。故於 1995 年中後期分別由 Lang 
[11]、Hobbs [12,13]、Rahmani [14]與 Kumar 
[15]及 Regner[16]等學者個別發表之研究
論文中，皆為使用電腦數值模擬軟體並選
擇 κ – ε 紊流模式，觀察殼管內置入靜態混
合器時，當流體流經不同點切截面時，內
部流場之流動型態是否與實驗結果有相似
或需更廣為探討之處；其中 Hobbs 等學者
更利用CFD數值分析方式模擬管內置入六
個元件之 KSM 型螺旋式靜態混合器得出
當雷諾數越高時，壓力損失部份因流體高
速流動接觸到 KSM 型螺旋式靜態混合器
故產生較大壓力損失，並針對元件長徑比
進行計算驗證，結論中也顯示長徑比越小
時，因元件長度較短，故於出口端之摩擦
係數與壓力損失呈現也相對較大。 
 
三、研究方法 
本研究藉由 CFD 方式並先以 CAD 軟
體－Solid Works 繪製螺旋式靜態混合器外
型(如圖一所示)，再由 CFD 軟體 Ansys 
Fluent™ 內建之 Gambit 建製網格並進行加
密修補與模擬型態設定等步驟進行電腦模
擬分析(如圖二、圖三所示)，最後再將
Solvers 模擬收斂運算(如圖四所示)所得之
數據與文獻理論值、其他學者實驗之數值
交叉比對，以驗證模擬精確性。本研究所
使用之流體為常溫(298.15 K) 之空氣，管
壁並有均勻之 250 W 熱通量通過，在模擬
參數上則針對 THSM 型螺旋式靜態混合器
參考 Hobbs[13]等學者之定義，以改變螺旋
元件排列組合方式(Combination Type)分別
探討管內摩擦係數( f )、溫度場與紐賽數
(Nu)之變化趨勢與關連性，並藉由後處理
軟體 Tecplot 360 繪製各別條件之比較圖來
表示其結果。 
 
(一)統御方程式 
    本研究之物理特性為三維紊流流場，
其中雷諾數(Re = 5000～50000)；工作流體
為常溫(298.15 K) 穩態不可壓縮流之空氣
(Air)，其黏度、密度、比熱與熱傳導係數
皆依 Ansys Fluent™ 設定為通用常數；流體
僅有溫度變化無化學反應；整體內部及外
部管路區域除最後端管末出口外無任何洩
漏處；並使用納維爾 - 史托克方程式
(Navier-Stokes equation)與波西涅斯克理論
(Bossinesq theory)來模擬不同雷諾數之壓
力與溫度所產生之變化。並以質量守恒(連
續) 方程式(2.1 式)、動量守恒方程式(2.2
式)與能量守恒方程式(2.3 式)進行基礎求
解計算。而本文所採用之方程式依序為： 
【A】質量守恒(連續)方程式： 
 
(3.1)   
           
  其中上式之 iu 為在 ix 方向之速度分量。 
【B】動量守恒方程式： 
 
                   (3.2) 
 
 
  其中上式 jx 為卡式座標系統( j = 1,2,3)。 
 
【C】能量守恒方程式： 
 
 
(3.3) 
 
  其中上式之 pC 為空氣之比熱係數，計算
值約為 1.0057(J/kg．K)，基於能量守恒原
則，系統吸收之熱能等於系統內能增加量
加上系統對外做功之值，故計算總熱傳率
( Q )之計算方程式表示如下： 
 
(3.4) 
   
  其中上式之 aQ 為空氣總熱傳率； convQ 為
螺旋式靜態混合器截面之總熱傳率，而之
計算方程式表示為： 
 
 (3.5) 
 
  其中上式之m& 為質量流率，單位為
kg/s，而螺旋式靜態混合器截面之總熱傳率
計算方程式表示為： 
(3.6) 
 
= 0iu
xi
∂
∂
( )i j i j
i i
j i j
u u p g F
x x x
τρ ρ∂ ∂∂∂ ∂ ∂
　
+ = + + 　
( )i p
j ij
i i i
u C T TK u
x x x
ρ τ∂ ⋅ ⎛ ⎞∂ ∂= +⎜ ⎟∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠
a convQ Q=
= ( )a p out inQ mC T T−&
( )conv w bQ hA T T= −%
之三葉螺旋式靜態混合器(THSM) R-L-N 
type 平均摩擦係數約為 1.00；R-R-N type
之約為 0.48；而空管式熱交換器之平均摩
擦係數則約為 0.025，R-L-N type 由於螺旋
流道結構改變較顯著，因此摩擦係數約較
R-R-N type 增加 2.08 倍；因管內流體與固
體螺旋混合器表面產生更多接觸面積與阻
抗，故相較於空管式熱交換器上升約 40 倍
左右的摩擦係數。  
    圖九為三葉螺旋式靜態混合器(THSM)
『有位移』形式與空管式熱交換器之摩擦
係數關係圖，其中當雷諾數在(Re = 20000
～50000)的範圍時，經數值模擬計算得到
之三葉螺旋式靜態混合器(THSM) R-L-Y 
type 平均摩擦係數約為 1.9；R-R-Y type 之
約為 0.5；而空管式熱交換器之平均摩擦係
數則約為 0.025，R-L-Y type 由於螺旋流道
結構改變較顯著，因此摩擦係數約較
R-R-Y type 增加 3.7 倍；亦因管內流體與固
體螺旋表面產生更多接觸面積與阻抗，故
相較於殼管式熱交換器上升約74倍左右的
摩擦係數。 
    圖十為三葉螺旋式靜態混合器(THSM)
『無位移』形式與空管式熱交換器之溫度
分佈圖。當流體流動狀態為雷諾數(Re = 
5000～50000)之紊流條件時，R-L-N type
由於其設計為以逆時針(右旋)、順時針(左
旋)方式排列，流體不僅受到流道結構改變
使流體出現明顯的速度梯度，造成熱擴散
傳遞率大於動量擴散率，延緩壁面流體的
溫度邊界層生成速度；也因其螺旋元件前
後排列旋向不同使流體增加較多熱交換與
能量交換空間，流體因此產生較顯著的摩
擦阻抗及對流效果，造成流體溫度與管壁
熱通量給定的溫度出現較大的溫度差與對
流熱傳係數(h)；而 R-R-N type 則因其為以
逆時針(右旋)、逆時針(右旋)方式之相同旋
轉方向排列，管內流道使流體流動過程中
速度較平緩，較 R-L-N type 產生相對不明
顯的摩擦阻抗且熱擴散速率較低，使其雖
為三葉螺旋式設計樣款，然其螺旋葉片對
流體的動能能量傳遞與分割流體熱邊界層
效能與皆不如R-L-N type以右旋-左旋排列
方式來得理想，因此 R-L-N type 於中端處
之管壁溫度平均約較 R-R-N type 降低約
11℃，較空管式熱交換器下降約 35℃；出
口端)最低溫度則約較 R-R-N type 上升約
2℃，亦較空管式增加約 7℃。 
    圖十一為三葉螺旋式靜態混合器
(THSM)『無位移』形式與空管式熱交換器
之紐賽數圖。當雷諾數為(Re = 25000～
50000)的範圍時，R-L-N type於雷諾數(Re = 
30000)時之平均紐賽數約為 240；R-R-N 
type 則約為 180，空管式熱交換器約為 90。
由於 R-L-N type 為以逆時針(右旋)、順時針
(左旋)之排列方式，螺旋流道結構改變較為
顯著，使流體於管流內增加較多與固體螺
旋葉片之接觸面積及較強的徑向剪切旋轉
速度，進而讓流體相對增加更多摩擦係數
與對流熱傳空間，因此紐賽數約較 R-R-N 
type 以同樣旋轉方向之組合樣式上升約 25
％；亦因管內工作流體與固體螺旋表面產
生更多接觸阻抗，有助於減緩熱邊界層之
生成速度，故相較於空管式熱交換器上升
約 63％左右的紐賽數值。 
    圖十二為三葉螺旋式靜態混合器
(THSM)『有位移』形式與空管式熱交換器
之溫度分佈圖。當流體流動狀態為雷諾數
(Re = 5000～50000)之紊流條件時，R-L-Y 
type 由於其設計為以逆時針(右旋)、順時針
(左旋)方式排列，流體不僅受到流道結構改
變使流體出現明顯的速度梯度，造成熱擴
散傳遞率大於動量擴散率，延緩壁面流體
的溫度邊界層生成速度；也因其螺旋元件
前後排列旋向不同使流體增加較多熱交換
與能量交換空間，流體因此產生較顯著的
摩擦阻抗及對流效果，造成流體溫度與管
壁熱通量給定的溫度出現較大的溫度差與
對流熱傳係數(h)；而 R-R-Y type 則因其為
以逆時針(右旋)、逆時針(右旋)方式之相同
旋轉方向排列，管內流道使流體流動過程
中速度較平緩，較 R-L-Y type 產生相對不
明顯的摩擦阻抗且熱擴散速率較低，使其
雖為三葉螺旋式設計樣款，然其螺旋葉片
對流體的動能能量傳遞與分割流體熱邊界
層效能與皆不如R-L-Y type以右旋-左旋排
列方式來得理想，因此 R-L-Y type 於中端
處之管壁溫度平均約較 R-R-Y type 降低約
Proc. IEEE, MEMS, 25-28 (1989) 
6. K.G. Chandra,D.D. Kale,(1995),“Pressure 
drop for two-phase air-non-newtonian 
liguid flow in static mixers,” The 
Chemical Engineering, Journal, 59 (3), pp. 
277-280. 
7. F. Kreith and D. Margolis, (1959).“ Heat 
transfer and friction in turbulent vortex 
flow, ”,Applied Science Resource, 8 ,pp. 
457–473. 
8. S. Eiamsa-ard and P. Promvonge,(2006). 
“Experimental investigation of heat 
transfer and friction characteristics in a 
circular tube fitted with V-nozzle 
turbulators,”International Communication 
Heat and Mass Transfe, 33, pp. 591–600. 
9. P. Promvonge and S. Eiamsa-ard,(2006). 
“Heat transfer enhancement in a tube with 
combined conical-nozzle inserts and swirl 
generator, ” Energy Conversion and 
Management,47, pp. 2867–2882. 
10.P.Promvonge,(2008),“Thermal 
augmentation in circular tube with twisted 
tape and wire coil turbulators, ”Energy 
Convers. Manag,49 (11), pp. 2949–2955. 
11.E. Lang, P. Drtina, F. Streiff, M. 
Fleischli,(1995), “Numerical simulation 
of the fluid flow and the mixing process 
in a static mixer,” International Journal of 
Heat and Mass Transfer, 38 (12), pp. 
2239-2250.P.S. Lee and S.V. Garimella, 
D. Liu, Investigation of heat transfer in 
rectangular microchannels, Int. J. Heat 
Mass Transfer 48, 1688-1704 (2005). 
12.D. M. Hobbs, F. J. Muzzio,(1998), 
“Optimization of a static mixer using 
dynamical systems techniques,” Chemical 
Engineering Science, 53 (3), pp. 
3199-3213.K. Foli, T. Okabe, M. Olhofer, 
Yaochu Jin, and B. Sendhoff, 
Optimization of the micro heat exchanger: 
CFD, analytical approach and 
multi-objective evolutionary algorithms, 
Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer 49, 1090-1099 
(2005). 
13.D.M.  Hobbs,P.D. Swanson,and F.J. 
Muzzio,(1998), “Numerical 
characterization of low Reynolds number 
flow in the Kenics static mixer,” 
Chemical Engineering Science, 53 (8), 
pp.1565-1584.J. Li and G.P. Peterson, 
3-Dimensional numerical optimization of 
silicon-based high performance parallel 
microchannel heat sink with liquid flow, 
Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer, 50, 2895-2904 
(2007). 
14.Ramin K. Rahmani, Theo G. Keith, 
Anahita Ayasoufi,(2006), “Numerical 
Study of The Heat Transfer Rate in a 
Helical Static Mixer,” Journal of Heat 
Transfer, 128 (8), pp. 769-783. 
15.V. Kumar, V. Shirke, K. Nigam,(2008), 
“Performance of Kenics static mixer over 
a wide range of Reynolds number,” 
Chemical Engineering Journal, 139 (21), 
pp. 284-295. 
16.Mårten Regner, Karin Östergren, 
Christian Trägårdh,(2006). “Effects of 
geometry and flow rate on secondary flow 
and the mixing process in static mixers－
a numerical study,” Chemical Engineering 
Science, 61(18), pp. 6133-6141.
 
 
 
圖五 三葉螺旋式靜態混合器(THSM)不同排列組合示意圖 
(a) THSM-RLN (b) THSM-RRN (c) THSM -RLY (d) THSM-RRY 
 
 
 
圖六 空管式熱交換器之摩擦係數( f )與其他學者之數據比較圖 
 
 
圖九 THSM. R-L-Y & R-R-Y type 與空管之雷諾數(Re)與摩擦係數( f )關係圖 
 
 
圖九 THSM. 不同排列組合之溫度分佈圖(R-L-N/R-R-N) 
(A1) Empty tube, 中端處 (A2) Empty tube, 出口端處 
(B1) THSM.R-L-N, 中端處 (B2) THSM.R-L-N, 出口端處 
(C1) THSM.R-R-N, 中端處 (C2) THSM.R-R-N, 出口端處 
  
圖十二  THSM. R-L-Y / R-R-Y type 之雷諾數(Re)與紐賽數(Nu)關係圖 
 
7th International Conference on Computational Heat and Mass Transfer 
   
 
transfer enhancement of tubes with various insertions, 
such as twisted tape and wire coil turbulator, 
combined conical-ring and twisted tape, V-nozzle 
turbulator, and so forth. These insertions are not in 
regular shape. Chang et al. [13, 14] investigate the 
heat transfer enhancement in the tube fitted with 
serrated twisted tape and broken twisted tape. 
Recently, Rahimi et al. [15] experimentally and 
numerically studied on the friction factor, Nusselt 
number and thermal hydraulic performance of a tube 
equipped with typical and three modified twisted 
tapes. 
Recently, Lin et al. [16] developed a novel 
invention named as tri-helical static mixer. The static 
mixer consists of different number of elements. The 
mixing elements, which are called segments, as one 
could imagine, appear to have been cut from a long 
periodic structure. Each segment has three helical 
channels and was right-twisted or left-twisted through 
an angle of 180°. These segments are inserted in-line 
and housed in a pipe that squeezes the liquid through 
the resulting mixing elements. The static mixer may 
be combined with different types of segments and at 
right angles to each other. Figure 1 shows the 
configuration and dimension of this element. Mixing 
in the elements occurs through a combination of flow 
splitting and shearing at the junctions of successive 
elements and a stretching and folding mechanism 
within the elements. This makes the tri-helical 
element as an excellent radial mixing device. 
From the literatures cited above, it is found that 
a novel design of tri-helical static mixer has been 
developed for better mixing processes. However, heat 
transfer characteristics of tri-helical static mixers 
have never been discovered.  This motivates the 
present study.  
 
ANALYSIS AND MODELLING 
In this study, the heat transfer characteristics of flow 
inserting THSM in pipes is under investigation. Three 
types of THSM are studied in this research as 
showing in Fig. 2, each type has four elements. There 
is a surface heat source on the outside surface of the 
pipe. The heat source is 24cm in length with 
1170.96W/m2 heat flux. Each element is 60mm in 
length and 40mm in diameter. Three types of THSM 
are studied in this paper, as shown in Fig. 2.  
 
Figure 1 Sketch of element in tri-helical static 
mixer 
  
 
 
 
Figure 2 different types of THSM for present study: 
(a) right-left alternating type; (b) shifting type; (c) 
shift-alternating type 
 
Based on conservation law of energy, heat 
transfer to the air is assumed to be equal to the heat 
loss from the test section and can be expressed as: 
a convQ Q=                 (1) 
where aQ is the heat transfer to air and can be 
calculated as:  
)( inoutpaa TTCmQ −= &            (2) 
7th International Conference on Computational Heat and Mass Transfer 
   
 
at Re=5000. For Re=50000, the heat transfer rate 
increases more than 100% with inserting THSM. This 
indicate that higher heat transfer rate of pipe flow can 
be obtained by separating the flow into more streams. 
However, the penalty of increasing in friction factor 
is also resulted. Figure 7 shows the friction factor of 
pipe flow with insertion of KSM and THSM. 
Apparently, the friction factor of pipe flow with 
inserting THSM is higher that that of KSM for 
different Re.  
 
 
Figure 5 
Temperature distribution in various axial locations 
for shift-alternating type THSM 
 
Figure 6. 
Comparison of Nusselt number in pipe flow with and 
without insertions. 
 
The friction factors and Nusselt number for pipe 
flow with inserting different type of THSM at various 
Re are depicted in Fig. 8 and 9, respectively. It is seen 
that the friction factor for shift-alternating type 
THSM is the highest for these three types. However, 
the heat transfer rate is the best for flow inserting 
shift-alternating type THSM among the three types. 
 
Figure 7. 
Comparison of friction factor in pipe flow with 
inserting KSM and THSM 
 
Figure 8 
Friction factor in pipe flow with different types of 
THSM insertion 
  
Figure 9 
Nusselt number in pipe flow with different types of 
THSM insertion 
 
Effect of element aspect ratio on the heat 
transfer in pipe flow with inserting THSM is also 
studied in this paper. Figure 10 and 11 show the 
effect of aspect ratio on the friction factor and 
Nusselt number for pipe flow the inserting shift-
alternating type THSM at various Re, respectively. It 
7th International Conference on Computational Heat and Mass Transfer 
   
 
11. P. Promvonge, 2008, Thermal augmentation in 
circular tube with twisted tape and wire coil 
turbulators, Energy Convers. Manage., 49, pp. 
2949-2955. 
12. S. Eiamsa-ard, K. Wongcharee, P. Promvonge 
and C. Thianpong, 2010, Heat transfer 
enhancement in a tube using delta-winglet 
twisted tape inserts, Applied Therm.  Eng., 30, 
pp. 310-318. 
13. Chang, Y.J. Jan, and J.S. Liou, 2007, Turbulent 
heat transfer and pressure drop in tube fitted 
with serrated twisted-tape, Int. J. Therm. Sci., 
46, pp. 506-518. 
14. S.W. Chang, Y.J. Jan, and J.S. Liou, 2007, Heat 
transfer and pressure drop with broken twisted 
tape insert, Exp. Therm. Fluid Sci., 32, pp. 
489-501. 
15. M. Rahimi, S.R. Shabanian, A.A. Alsairafi, 
2009, Experimental and CFD studies on heat 
transfer and friction factor characteristics of a 
tube equipped with modified twisted tape 
inserts, Chem. Eng. Process, 48, pp. 762-770. 
16. Lin, C.T., Chen, K.D, and Chang, K.D., “Static 
mixer along with its helical mixing device,” 
PRC Patent No. ZL 200720126548. 
17. K.T. Chang, J.H. Jang, T.C. Lai, and J.N. Chen, 
2011, Experimental and numerical study on the 
flow visualization in a tri-helical static mixer, 
J. of Marine Sci. Tech. (Taiwan), in press.  
 
 2  
From the literatures cited above, it is found that a novel 
design of tri-helical static mixer has been developed for better 
mixing processes. However, heat transfer characteristics of tri-
helical static mixers have never been discovered.  This 
motivates the present study. 
 
Figure 1:Sketch of Kenics static mixer for present study  
 
 
Figure 2:Sketch of Tri-helical static mixer for present study 
 
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP AND PROCEDURES 
Experimental setup 
The objective of this investigation is to observe the flow 
field within a tri-helical and Kenics static mixer numerically 
and experimentally. The fluid utilized in the study is water, and 
the experiment was carried out within a water channel. 
Experimental setup includes a Nd-YAG laser as the laser sheet 
source, a tri-helical static mixer as testing module, upper and 
lower water tanks, seeders and imaging capture system. The 
image capture system includes a digital camera, a CCD camera, 
and a desktop computer. The experimental setup is shown in 
Fig. 2. It should be noted that a filter with honeycomb is placed 
before the channel in order to obtain a uniform flow. 
Testing module 
In this paper, a tri-helical static mixer was utilized by 
inserting into a tube for flow visualization. The tri-helical static 
mixer divides the pipeline into three parts. The testing modules 
consist of four elements with a series of alternative left and 
right helical elements arranged axially within a pipe so that the 
leading edge of an element is at 60° angles to the trailing edge 
of the previous element. The dimension of each element is 40 
mm × 60 mm. So the aspect ratio for each element is 1.5. The 
rib thickness is 1.2 mm. The sketch of the right helical element 
is presented in Fig. 1. The diameter of the pipe is 40.4 mm such 
that there is a small gap between the tri-helical static mixer and 
the pipe. The total length of the pipe is 1000 mm, while the 
length of the testing module is 240 mm. 
 
Figure 3:Illustration of experimental setup 
 
Visualization 
The main equipment of visualization is the Nd-YAG laser 
sheet source. It is a portable sized industrial laser, which is 
solid state type excited by a semi-conductor diode. There is a 
cylindrical optics in front of the laser head to generate a laser 
sheet. The expansion angle of the laser sheet is 20°, and the 
thickness of the laser sheet is 0.5 ~1mm. Its color is green with 
wavelength of 532 nm, and the maximum power is 200 mW 
with the input voltage of 110V AC. Plastic particles are made of 
polyamide and seeded into water tank to scatter the laser light. 
The diameters of the particles are between 30-70 μm and the 
specific weight is 1.03 at 25°C. Because the particles are small 
enough as that they do not diffuse from the flow. Since the 
specific weight of the plastic powder is greater than that of 
 4  
vorticity is high close to the pipe wall and close to the rib. 
However, the rotation direction at the wall is positive and 
negative at the rib. It is interesting to see that the value of 
vorticiy for flow both within THSM and KSM are different 
sign for center and near wall region. This implies that the 
rotation direction of voritcity is opposite. It is also noticed that 
the vorticity for THSM is negative at the center, while that for 
KSM is positive. 
 
 
Figure 5: cross-sectional axial velocity distribution of flow 
within THSM and KSM at the location of the first half of  mixing 
element 1 
 
 
Figure 6: cross-sectional radial velocity distribution of flow 
within THSM and KSM at the location of the first half of mixing 
element 1 
 
 
Figure 7: cross-sectional mean axial vorticity distribution of 
flow within THSM and KSM at the location of the first half of 
mixing element 1 
 
Since the test module consists of four elements with a 
series of alternating left and right helical elements. The flow 
condition at the intersection between two mixing elements 
would be an interesting issue. The cross-sectional axial 
velocity, radial velocity and mean axial vorticity distributions 
are depicted in Fig. 8, 9, and 10, respectively. It is found in Fig. 
8 that the peak axial velocity started to shift from left to right 
for THSM. Similar behavior is also observed for KSM. The 
cross-sectional radial velocity shows the rotation direction 
clearly in Fig. 9.   
 
Figure 8: cross-sectional axial velocity distribution of flow 
within THSM and KSM at the intersection of the first and second 
mixing elements 
 
 
 
Figure 9: cross-sectional radial velocity distribution of flow 
within THSM and KSM at the intersection of the first and second 
mixing elements 
 
Fig. 10 shows cross-sectional mean axial vorticity 
distribution of flow within THSM and KSM. It is more obvious 
to see the axial vorticity with negative value started to shift to 
both side of the rib and the positive value axial vorticity also 
moves towards both side of each channel.  
Figure 11 present the axial velocity distribution along the 
flow direction with and without a tri-helical static mixer. The 
axial velocity for flow without a static mixer is a standard 
developing flow distribution and the axial velocity at the center 
of the pipe doubles at the exit of the pipe. It is noticed that the 
axial velocity is higher at the entrance region for the flow with 
a tri-helical static mixer. Obviously, the increase in axial 
velocity is because of the back pressure by the placement of 
static mixer. Clearly, the axial velocity becomes larger in the 
separated channels inside the static mixer. The flow is affected 
by the helical channel, and the fluid at the center is forced to 
move to pipe wall. It is also observed that the axial velocity is 
1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 10 月 15 日 
一、 摘要 
本文報告參加由 International Central for Applied Thermodynamics 主辦，與 ASME、King Saud 
University、Alfaisal University 與 University of Calgary 共同舉辦之第七屆數值熱值傳國際研討會(7th 
International Conference on Computational Heat and Mass Transfer)之始末。本研討會每兩年舉辦一次，為
世界上有名之熱值傳分析的國際研討會會之一。研討會主題涵蓋 CFD、燃燒、能源等領域，其中超過
250 篇技術文章投稿。本報告說明參加會議情況以及報告人對數值熱質傳分析技術之了解與認知，最
後就所發表之論文進行簡短之心得摘要及建議。 
 
二、 目的 
本次出國參加 ICCHMT會議，主要發表學術研究論文，題目為Numerical analysis on the heat transfer 
characteristics of inserting tri-helical static mixer in pipes(管中置入三螺旋靜態混合器之熱傳特性分析)。藉
由參與會議與國際學術界有交流的機會，以獲取最新研究之動態，做為個人未來學術研究之參考。 
 
三、 參加會議過程 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-131-028 
計畫名稱 管流置入三螺旋靜態混合器增進熱傳效益之分析 
出國人員
姓名 章哲寰 
服務機構
及職稱 明志科技大學教授 
會議時間 
2011年 07月 18日
至 
2011年 07月 22日 
會議地點 土耳其伊斯坦堡 
會議名稱 
(中文)數值熱質傳國際研討會 
(英文)International Conference on Computational Heat and Mass Transfer 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)管中置入三螺旋靜態混合器之熱傳特性數值分析 
(英文) Numerical Analysis on the heat transfer characteristics of inserting 
tri-helical static mixer in pipes 
  
   
    
3 
 
7th International Conference on Computational Heat and Mass Transfer 
   
 
 
 235 
 
 
 
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS ON THE HEAT TRANSFER CHARACTERISTICS OF 
INSERTING TRI-HELICAL STATIC MIXER IN PIPES 
 
Kuo-Dong Chang, Jer-Huan Jang*, Tien-Yi Wang, Chiao-Dong Hsu 
Graduate Institute of Electromechanical Engineering, Ming Chi University of Technology 
Xin Bei, Taiwan 243, ROC 
 
*Correspondence author:   Fax: +886-2-29089899 ext. 4522 Email: jhjang@mail.mcut.edu.tw 
 
 
ABSTRACT  
Heat transfer enhancement is an important issue in 
industries. There are studies that investigates heat 
transfer enhancement by inserting a twisted tape in 
pipes or other similar inserts. Static mixers are 
commonly used in continuous mixing process. 
Improved transport processes occurring in the static 
mixers such as flow division, radial eddying, flow 
constriction, and shear reversal eliminate the 
gradients in concentration, velocity, and temperature. 
Tei-helical static mixer (THSM) is a novel design in 
mixing processes. The characteristics of thermal and 
fluid flow with insertion THSM in pipes are not well 
discussed. 
In this study, the heat transfer enhancement of 
flow with THSM in pipes is under investigation. 
Different combinations of THSM are studied in this 
research. The parameters includes the arrangement of 
elements, type of static mixers, and the aspect ratio of 
the element. Results show the cross-sectional 
contours of temperature for various types of THSM at 
a specified Reynolds number. It is also found that the 
Nusselt number for pipe with inserting of shift-
alternating type THSM is the highest among the three 
types of THSM. However, the friction factor for pipe 
with inserting of shift-alternating type THSM is also 
the highest. 
Keywords: tri-helical static mixer, pipe, insertion, 
turbulent, k-ε model, CFD 
NOMENCLATURE 
A  area 
Cpa  specific heat at constant pressure for air 
D  inner diameter of the pipe 
f  friction factor 
h  convection heat transfer coefficient 
K  conductivity 
L  length 
m&   mass flow rate 
Nu  Nusselt number 
Qa  heat flux to air 
Qconv  convection heat flux 
Re  Reynolds number 
Tb  bulk temperature  
Tin  inlet temperature  
Tout  outlet temperature 
WT
~
  wall temperature 
ΔP  pressure difference 
ρ  density 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Heating, cooling, and other thermal processing of 
viscous fluids are an integral part of the unit 
operations in chemical processing industries. Static 
mixer is a device consisting of a series of flow 
orientation elements inserted along the axis of pipe. 
Pressure drives the fluid through the device, 
providing the energy needed to accomplish mixing. 
It has the advantage of being easy to install in 
existing systems. Pressure drop penalties caused by 
the destructive devices may be large. However, fluid 
flow and mixing performance in theses device has 
not been rigorously characterized. Static mixers are 
often used in continuous mixing [1], heat transfer 
[2], and chemical reactions applications [3]. Because 
of a wide range of applications for static mixer, a 
variety of segment designs is available [4-6]. 
Passive heat transfer augmentation is an 
efficient way to increase heat transfer rate without 
consuming power. Installing insertion in a pipe is 
one of the most effective approaches among the 
techniques. Promvonge and Eiamsa-ard’s group [7-
12] has been experimentally studied on the heat 
7th International Conference on Computational Heat and Mass Transfer 
   
 
and m&  is the mass flow rate of air, outT and inT  are 
inlet and outlet temperature, respectively, and convQ  
is the convective heat transfer from the test section 
expressed as: 
( )conv w bQ hA T T= −%              (3) 
Where A is the internal surface of the pipe wall and 
Tb is the bulk mean temperature and wT
~
is the mean 
wall temperature.  
2/)( inoutb TTT +=             (4) 
The mean heat transfer coefficient, h, and the mean 
Nusselt number can be obtained as shown below 
( )bwa TTAQh −= ~            (5) 
/Nu hD k=                 (6) 
    The friction factor is obtained by pressure loss, 
ΔP across the test length, L and expressed as  
( )( )2/ 2UDL Pf ρΔ=             (7) 
Due to complexity of THSM geometry, the 
model is established with SolidWorks and then 
imported into FLUENT to generate meshes for the 
flow. K-ε model is used for present analysis. No slip 
condition is applied to the solid walls. The inlet 
Reynolds number varies from 5000 to 50000 for the 
analysis. The model is using FLUENT to solve 
continuity equation, momentum equations in three 
directions and energy equation. The flow is assumed 
to be steady, 3D, incompressible and turbulent. 
Gravity effect is neglected, and no chemical reaction 
within the flow. The working fluid is air with the 
assumption of constant property. The ambient 
temperature is set at room temperature 20°C. The 
convergence requirement is set the residual less than 
10-5. The simulation model has been used to calculate 
the friction factor of pipe flow and compare with 
results from Promvonge [11], and the error is less 
then 5%. 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
In the present study, heat transfer characteristic 
of pipe flow with inserting is under investigation. The 
flow characteristic is also an interesting topic that 
affects the heat transfer rate. Due to the limitation of 
this paper, the visualization of pipe flow with 
inserting THSM will not presented. Please see ref. 
[17] for details. 
The cross-sectional temperature distributions 
for pipe flow with inserting right-left alternating 
type THSM at Re=30000 are shown in Fig. 3. The 
corresponding axial locations are depicted in Fig. 4 
for clarity. It is found that the cross-sectional 
temperature at the entrance is developing and the 
temperature gradients are high close to the wall. In 
the THSM, the flow is separated into three streams, 
and the temperature of working fluid is higher than 
that with plain pipe. It is also noticed that there exist 
three optimum temperatures for each stream of the 
flow. Due to nature of helical flow, the optimum 
temperature rotates. 
 
 
Figure 3 
Temperature distribution in various axial locations 
for right-left alternating type THSM 
 
Figure 4 
Corresponding dimensionless axial location 
 
Figure 5 presents the cross-sectional 
temperature contours for pipe flow with inserting 
shift-alternating type THSM at Re=30000. It is 
clearly seen that the temperature distribution is 
similar to Fig. 4 for (a) and (b). However, the 
temperature distribution shows large variance due to 
shifting angle between elements. This arrangement 
apparently improves heat transfer rate. 
The heat transfer enhancement in pipe flow 
through insertion is a common method. Kenics static 
mixer is a popular motionless mixer in industry. 
Figure 6 shows the improvement of heat transfer in 
pipe flow with inserting both KSM and THSM. Both 
KSM and THSM are made in shift-alternating type. 
It is obvious that heat transfer enhancement of pipe 
flow with insertions. The heat transfer rate increases 
approximately 30% by KSM, and 100% by THSM 
7th International Conference on Computational Heat and Mass Transfer 
   
 
is found that both the friction factor and Nuselt 
number decrease as aspect ration increases at 
Re>10000. However, the Nusselt number shows little 
variance at Re<10000 as aspect ratio increase 
 
 
Figure 10 
Friction factor in pipe flow with aspect ratio of 
elements for shift alternating type THSM 
 
Figure 11 
Nusselt number in pipe flow with aspect ratio of 
elements for shift alternating type THSM 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
In the present study, 3D turbulent pipe flow 
with inserting different THSM has been carried out 
over a wide range of Re. Concluding remarks are 
drawn as follow: 
1. The heat transfer rate of pipe flow with inserting 
THSM is higher than that of inserting KSM. 
The increase rate is approximately 100% 
compared with pipe flow without insertion. 
2. The heat transfer rate for pipe flow with 
inserting shift-alternating type THSM is the 
better for inserting the other two types. 
However, friction factor is also the highest 
among the three. 
3. The aspect ratio of element in THSM affects on 
both friction factor and heat transfer rate for 
pipe flow with insertion. The heat transfer rate 
increases as the aspect ratio decreases. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
The financial support of this research by the 
National Science Council, Taiwan, under the 
Contract NSC99-2221-E-131-028, is appreciated. 
REFERENCES 
1. D.M. Hobbs and F.J. Muzzio, 1998, 
Optimization of a static mixer using dynamical 
systems techniques, Chem. Eng. Sci., 53, pp. 
3199-3213.  
2. R.K. Rahmani, T.G. Keith, and A. Ayasoufi, 
2006, Numerical study of the heat transfer rate 
in a helical static mixer, ASME J. Heat transfer, 
128, pp. 769-783. 
3. S.C. Jones, F. Sotiropoulos, and A. 
Amirtharajah, 2002, “Numerical modeling of 
helical static mixers for water treatment,” J. of 
Environmental Eng., 128, pp. 431- 440. 
4. V. Kumar, V. Shrike, and K.D.P. Nigam, 2008, 
Performance of Kenics static mixer over a wide 
range of Reynolds number, Chem. Eng. J., 139, 
pp. 284-295. 
5. R.K. Thakur, Ch. Vial, K. D. P. Nigam, E.B. 
Nauman, and G. Djelveh, 2003, Static mixer in 
the Process industries-a review” Trans 
IChemE, 81, part A, pp 787-826. 
6. A. Bakker, R.D. LaRoche, and E.M. Marhsall, 
“Laminar flow in static mixers with helical 
elements.” The online CFMbook at 
(http://www.bakker.org), 2000. 
7. S. Eiamsa-ard and P. Promvonge, 2005, 
Enhancement of heat transfer in a tube with 
regularly-spaced helical tape swirl generators, 
Sol. Energy, 78, pp.483-494. 
8. S. Eiamsa-ard, C. Thianpong and P. 
Promvonge, 2006, Experimental investigation 
of heat transfer and flow friction in a circular 
tube fitted with regularly spaced twisted tape 
elements, Int. Commun. Heat Mass Transfer, 
33, pp. 1225-1233. 
9. P. Promvonge and S. Eiamsa-ard, 2007, Heat 
transfer behavior in a tube with combined  
conical –ring and twisted tape insert, Int. 
Commun. Heat Mass Transfer, 34, pp. 849-
859. 
10. P. Promvonge and S. Eiamsa-ard, 2007, Heat 
transfer augmentation in a circular tube using 
V-nozzle turbulator inserts and snail entry, Exp. 
Therm. Fluid Sci., 32, pp. 332-340. 
FLUCOME 2011 Conference 
Keelung, Taiwan 
December 5-9, 2011 
Paper No.: 247 
Author(s): Jer-Huan Jang and Kuo Tung Chan 
Paper title: Flow Comparison of KSM and Tri-helical Static Mixers in Pipes 
 
August 16, 2011 
Dear Dr. Jang: 
On behalf of the Local Organization Committee for FLUCOME 2011, I am pleased to inform 
you that your paper, as specified above, has been accepted for presentation in the 11th 
International Conference on Fluid Control, Measurements, and Visualization (FLUCOME 
2011). The conference will be held at the National Taiwan Ocean University in Keelung, 
Taiwan, from December 5th to 9th, 2011. 
Your participation in the conference is essential to the international research communities and 
your presentation is important to the development and applications of fluid control, 
measurements, and visualization. Please be advised that at least one of the authors for 
each paper must register within the early registration period in order that the paper is 
scheduled for presentation. A detailed schedule of all presentations will be available on the 
conference website in early November. Information about registration and hotel 
accommodations is also available on the website. Please regularly visit the website at 
http://flucome2011.ntou.edu.tw to stay informed. 
Congratulations—we warmly welcome you to Keelung! 
Best regards, 
 
Prof. Shenq-Yuh Jaw 
Technical Program Chair, FLUCOME 2011 
+886-2-24622192 ext 6024 
 
FLUCOME 2011 (11th International Conference on Fluid Control, Measurements, and Visualization) 
c/o College of Engineering, National Taiwan Ocean University, 2 Pei-Ning Road, Keelung 202, Taiwan. 
TEL: +886-2-24622192 ext 6001; FAX: +886-2-24631597; flucome2011@gmail.com  
http://flucome2011.ntou.edu.tw 
 2  
From the literatures cited above, it is found that a novel 
design of tri-helical static mixer has been developed for better 
mixing processes. However, heat transfer characteristics of tri-
helical static mixers have never been discovered.  This 
motivates the present study. 
 
Figure 1:Sketch of Kenics static mixer for present study  
 
 
Figure 2:Sketch of Tri-helical static mixer for present study 
 
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP AND PROCEDURES 
Experimental setup 
The objective of this investigation is to observe the flow 
field within a tri-helical and Kenics static mixer numerically 
and experimentally. The fluid utilized in the study is water, and 
the experiment was carried out within a water channel. 
Experimental setup includes a Nd-YAG laser as the laser sheet 
source, a tri-helical static mixer as testing module, upper and 
lower water tanks, seeders and imaging capture system. The 
image capture system includes a digital camera, a CCD camera, 
and a desktop computer. The experimental setup is shown in 
Fig. 2. It should be noted that a filter with honeycomb is placed 
before the channel in order to obtain a uniform flow. 
Testing module 
In this paper, a tri-helical static mixer was utilized by 
inserting into a tube for flow visualization. The tri-helical static 
mixer divides the pipeline into three parts. The testing modules 
consist of four elements with a series of alternative left and 
right helical elements arranged axially within a pipe so that the 
leading edge of an element is at 60° angles to the trailing edge 
of the previous element. The dimension of each element is 40 
mm × 60 mm. So the aspect ratio for each element is 1.5. The 
rib thickness is 1.2 mm. The sketch of the right helical element 
is presented in Fig. 1. The diameter of the pipe is 40.4 mm such 
that there is a small gap between the tri-helical static mixer and 
the pipe. The total length of the pipe is 1000 mm, while the 
length of the testing module is 240 mm. 
 
Figure 3:Illustration of experimental setup 
 
Visualization 
The main equipment of visualization is the Nd-YAG laser 
sheet source. It is a portable sized industrial laser, which is 
solid state type excited by a semi-conductor diode. There is a 
cylindrical optics in front of the laser head to generate a laser 
sheet. The expansion angle of the laser sheet is 20°, and the 
thickness of the laser sheet is 0.5 ~1mm. Its color is green with 
wavelength of 532 nm, and the maximum power is 200 mW 
with the input voltage of 110V AC. Plastic particles are made of 
polyamide and seeded into water tank to scatter the laser light. 
The diameters of the particles are between 30-70 μm and the 
specific weight is 1.03 at 25°C. Because the particles are small 
enough as that they do not diffuse from the flow. Since the 
specific weight of the plastic powder is greater than that of 
 4  
vorticity is high close to the pipe wall and close to the rib. 
However, the rotation direction at the wall is positive and 
negative at the rib. It is interesting to see that the value of 
vorticiy for flow both within THSM and KSM are different 
sign for center and near wall region. This implies that the 
rotation direction of voritcity is opposite. It is also noticed that 
the vorticity for THSM is negative at the center, while that for 
KSM is positive. 
 
 
Figure 5: cross-sectional axial velocity distribution of flow 
within THSM and KSM at the location of the first half of  mixing 
element 1 
 
 
Figure 6: cross-sectional radial velocity distribution of flow 
within THSM and KSM at the location of the first half of mixing 
element 1 
 
 
Figure 7: cross-sectional mean axial vorticity distribution of 
flow within THSM and KSM at the location of the first half of 
mixing element 1 
 
Since the test module consists of four elements with a 
series of alternating left and right helical elements. The flow 
condition at the intersection between two mixing elements 
would be an interesting issue. The cross-sectional axial 
velocity, radial velocity and mean axial vorticity distributions 
are depicted in Fig. 8, 9, and 10, respectively. It is found in Fig. 
8 that the peak axial velocity started to shift from left to right 
for THSM. Similar behavior is also observed for KSM. The 
cross-sectional radial velocity shows the rotation direction 
clearly in Fig. 9.   
 
Figure 8: cross-sectional axial velocity distribution of flow 
within THSM and KSM at the intersection of the first and second 
mixing elements 
 
 
 
Figure 9: cross-sectional radial velocity distribution of flow 
within THSM and KSM at the intersection of the first and second 
mixing elements 
 
Fig. 10 shows cross-sectional mean axial vorticity 
distribution of flow within THSM and KSM. It is more obvious 
to see the axial vorticity with negative value started to shift to 
both side of the rib and the positive value axial vorticity also 
moves towards both side of each channel.  
Figure 11 present the axial velocity distribution along the 
flow direction with and without a tri-helical static mixer. The 
axial velocity for flow without a static mixer is a standard 
developing flow distribution and the axial velocity at the center 
of the pipe doubles at the exit of the pipe. It is noticed that the 
axial velocity is higher at the entrance region for the flow with 
a tri-helical static mixer. Obviously, the increase in axial 
velocity is because of the back pressure by the placement of 
static mixer. Clearly, the axial velocity becomes larger in the 
separated channels inside the static mixer. The flow is affected 
by the helical channel, and the fluid at the center is forced to 
move to pipe wall. It is also observed that the axial velocity is 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/10
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 管流置入三螺旋靜態混合器增進熱傳效益之分析
計畫主持人: 章哲寰
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-131-028- 學門領域: 能源科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
