 2
elements. 
Keywords: holography, digital holographic 
microscopy, refractive index profile, micro-optics 
 
Ⅱ. INTRODUCTION 
Holography was originally invented by D. 
Gabor to solve the problem of the lens 
aberrations of microscope [1]. The hologram 
based on interference caused by object wave 
and reference wave could completely record 
the phase and amplitude information of the 
real object and thus reconstruct the 
three-dimensional (3-D) image. Digital 
holographic microscopy (DHM) [2-7] has 
great potential and attraction for digital 
recording and numerical reconstruction 
without the use of time-consuming 
wet-chemical photographic processing 
because of the dramatic improvement of the 
CCD/CMOS sensors and digital computer 
techniques. Here, we will discuss several 
kinds of measurement application DHM 
system. 
First, the DHM system can be used to 
measure the refractive index profile in the 
holographic data storage media. The 
holographic data storage [8] offers the 
capabilities of parallel recording and retrieval 
of mass data accesses, such that holographic 
storage has great potential and is an attractive 
candidate for optical memory and information 
processing. Light-induced refractive index 
change medium [9] is one of the key factors to 
real-world applications of holographic storage 
technologies. The refractive index of a 
recording medium, such as photorefractive 
crystals and photopolymers, can be changed by 
illuminating a light wave with various intensity 
distributions. One can use a coherent object 
wave carrying the image to be recorded to 
interfere with a reference plane wave inside the 
recording medium to induce refractive index 
gratings and then form a phase hologram for 
optical storage. For the image readout process, 
a reference wave that is same as the original 
wave is utilized to illuminate the refractive 
index phase hologram to retrieve the image 
recorded in the medium. The quality of the 
retrieved image primarily depends on the 
optical properties of the light-induced 
refractive index change materials and 
holograms [10]. Therefore, measuring and 
investigating the fine structure and formation 
mechanism of light-induced refractive index 
gratings and the reconstruction properties of 
a holographic recording medium via 
microscopic analysis are important tasks. De 
Angelis et al. [7] measured the refractive 
index profile of the phase grating in a lithium 
niobate (LiNbO3) crystal plate using a digital 
holographic technique, which experimentally 
generated a direct observation of a grating 
profile in a recorded photorefractive crystal. 
This work proposes and demonstrates an in 
situ mapping technique of light-induced 
refractive grating using digital holographic 
microscopy. This is first time the grating 
formation and dynamic behavior have been 
directly observed and measured during the 
exposure procedure in an epoxy resin 
holographic medium [11]. Via this in situ 
DHM scheme, diffraction properties of 
light-induced refractive index gratings and 
reconstructed image quality derived from a 
phase hologram can be analyzed 
microscopically. 
Second, the DHM system can also 
measure the refractive index profile in the 
micro optics element. The refractive index 
distribution of a dielectric medium strongly 
influences the propagation of an optical 
wavefront through micro-optical elements, 
including a microlens, a gradient index 
(GRIN) lens, a fiber lens and others. 
Knowledge of the refractive index profile of 
transparent or semi-transparent optical 
elements is very important not only in 
characterizing the phase transformation and 
aberrations associated with focusing or 
imaging properties, but also in controlling 
the optical quality of the elements. Numerous 
approaches, including the scanning refracted 
ray [12], imaging [13] and interferometric 
[14], have been presented to investigate the 
refractive index of a transparent optical 
 4
 
 
Fig. 1. Conceptual diagram of the digital holographic microscope for in situ measurement the light-induced 
refractive index gratings. Left: optical recording of the index grating in epoxy resin medium; Right: index 
grating measurement by digital holographic microscope. 
 
where 2wL is the objective aperture.  The 
symbol id  is the distance between the 
objective and intermediate image plane and 
od  is the distance between the epoxy resin 
and objective. And M  is objective 
magnification, which satisfies the imaging 
relationship of /i oM d d= − . As in Eq. (4), 
the point spread function is modulated by the 
sinc function, which results from the lens 
aperture with a width of 2wL. Notably, the 
sinc modulation effect on the point spread 
function decreases as aperture size increases. 
According to Fresnel-Kirchhoff 
diffraction, the intermediate image ( ),iU ξ η  
will propagate to the digital hologram plane, 
which can be written as  
( ) ( )
( ) ( )
( )
2 2
2 2
2exp j
, exp j
j 2
, exp j
2
d d ,
2exp j
d
i
d
kU u v u v
d d
kU
d
u v
d
π
λ
λ
ξ η ξ η
ξ ηπ ξ ηλ
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟ ⎡ ⎤⎝ ⎠= +⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
⎧ ⎫⎡ ⎤+⎪ ⎪⎢ ⎥⎪ ⎣ ⎦⎪⎨ ⎬⎡ ⎤⎪ ⎪− +⎢ ⎥⎪ ⎪⎣ ⎦⎩ ⎭
∫ ∫
 
        (5) 
where d  is the distance between the 
intermediate image and digital hologram 
plane. As shown in Fig. 1, we have 
considered the following reasons to select the 
distance d. First, the intermediate image of 
the index grating should be completed 
recorded on a CCD located in the digital 
hologram plane so that the maximum spatial 
frequency of the index grating will lead to an 
upper limit of the distance d  to be selected 
for the digital hologram recording to collect 
any spatial frequency components. Second, 
we used the convolution approach for the 
numerical calculation of Fresnel diffraction 
so that the distance d should be satisfied the 
condition of Nyquist sampling theorem, 
which leads to a lower limit of the distance 
d  for hologram recording to avoid the 
aliasing problem. Therefore, the distance d is 
selected in between the preceding limits for 
digital hologram recording and 
reconstruction. Further, by using the 
phase-shifting technique, the diffracted light 
field ( ),dU u v  will interfere with a 
reference beam with several successive step 
phases to form three- or four-step 
phase-shifted digital holograms. After some 
algebraic calculations [2, 3], one can remove 
the zero-order term and the twin images from 
the phase-shifted holograms to generate a 
complex digital hologram, including 
amplitude and phase components. In 
principle, this complex digital hologram is 
the same as the diffracted complex wavefront 
( ),dU u v  in the digital hologram plane. Then, 
a reference beam ( ),R u v , which is the same 
as the original reference beam, is utilized to 
illuminate the complex digital hologram for 
image reconstruction. Therefore, according 
to the Fresnel-Kirchhoff integral, the 
reconstructed image can be obtained. Then, 
consider the DHM system equipped with an 
objective with a large numerical aperture.  
 6
( )
( )
1
2, 2
4 4              , ,
ot
rt
r o r
X Y n dz
n t n t X Y
π
λ
π π
λ λ
⎡ ⎤Φ = ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
= −
∫
 (8) 
The symbols λ  and k  are the wavelength 
and the wave number, respectively. The 
symbol ot  is the thickness of the 
surrounding medium and t  is the thickness 
of the sample. For simplicity, ot  is regarded 
as an adjustable value that depends on the 
thickness of the sample and t  is a thickness 
function with a spatial distribution. Notably, 
from Eq. (8), ot  can be set to the maximum 
thickness of the sample, maxot t= , when 1Φ  
is set to zero in the reference plane ( ),X Y . 
In the transmission port, as shown at the 
bottom of Fig. 2, the incident wave passes 
through the sample to generate an object 
wave, which interferes with a reference wave 
to produce the hologram ( )2 ,H x y . Then, 
the reconstructed continuous phase 
( )2 ,X YΦ , given by,  
( ) ( )
( ) ( )
( )
2 0
2 2, , ;
2               , ,
2                 ,
ot t
s rt
s
r o
X Y n X Y z dz n dz
n X Y t X Y
n t t X Y
π π
λ λ
π
λ
π
λ
Φ = +
=
⎡ ⎤+ −⎣ ⎦
∫ ∫
        (9) 
is obtained. Combining Eqs. (8) and (9), 
yields the following refractive index profile 
( ) ( )
( )
( )
1
2
1
max
,
,
2, .
,2
2
s
r
X Y
X Y
n X Y
X Y
t
n
π
λ
ΦΦ −
= ⎡ ⎤Φ−⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
 (10) 
Equation (10) indicates that the 
refractive index profile is spatially 
distributed function, which can be 
determined from the reconstructed phases 
( )1 ,X YΦ  and ( )2 ,X YΦ  of the reflected 
and transmitted waves of the sample. 
Consider the special case of a sample of 
uniform thickness (such as with ( ), 0t X Y = ); 
from Eq. (10), ( )
0
lim ,s rt n X Y n→ = . The 
reconstructed phase remains constant and the 
measured refractive index is set to a virtual 
value relative to the refractive index in air. 
This result causes a problem of ambiguity in 
the determination of the absolute value of the 
refractive index in the measured area with 
constant thickness. Therefore, the proposed 
method is useful only in the case of a sample 
with a thickness that varies over the 
measured area. 
Ⅳ. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The experimental setup of the proposed 
DHM system for in situ measurement of 
light-induced refractive index gratings is 
shown in Fig. 3, which primarily consists of 
holographic recording scheme and a digital 
holographic microscope. The holographic 
recording scheme is constructed by an 
off-axis interferometric configuration, in 
which two writing beams from a coherent 
diode-pumped solid state (DPSS) laser with a 
wavelength of 532 nm can interfere with 
each other and create refractive index 
gratings with different spacings in an epoxy 
resin holographic medium by selecting the 
intersection angle between writing beams. 
The digital holographic microscope has a 
modified Mach–Zehnder interferometric 
architecture with a piezoelectric actuator 
(PZT)-driven mirror in the reference arm and 
a CCD image sensor (number of pixels, 1360 
×1024; pixel size, 4.65 × 4.65 μm2). The 
probing beam from a He-Ne laser with a 
wavelength of 633 nm transmitted through 
the epoxy resin sample interferes with the 
reference beam and forms an interference 
fringe pattern on the CCD camera. The 
PZT-driven mirror introduced four-step 
phases (i.e., 0, π/2, π, and 3π/2) in the 
reference beam to implement the 
phase-shifting digital holographic technique. 
The phase-shifting algorithm was used to 
remove zero-order term and the twin images. 
Thus, the entire image reconstruction 
procedure can be reduced to sub-second to 
observe the grating formation inside the 
epoxy resin photopolymer. Thus, DHM 
 8
 
Fig. 5 Experimental setup of the transflective digital 
holographic microscope system. PZT-M: 
piezoelectric-transducer-driven mirror; BS: beam splitter; 
OB: Objective; M: mirror; P: polarizer; λ/2: half-wave 
plate; λ/4: quarter-wave plate; R: reference wave. 
 
fragile as it was underexposed on the epoxy 
resin medium, where the index change is 
very small (roughly 57 10−× ) as is shown in 
its grating structure derived from numerical 
reconstruction by DHM. Figure 4(b) shows 
experimental result obtained with sufficient 
exposure time to record the target inside an 
epoxy resin hologram with large index change 
(roughly 43 10−× ). The readout image is 
clearer than the case in Fig. 4(a), especially in 
the fine bars of the central part of the image. 
Furthermore, this work considered the 
preceding hologram [Fig. 4(b)], which was 
successively illuminated after 1 h exposure by 
a reference beam with a power density of 
roughly 100 μW/cm2. The peak-to-peak 
excursion of the index grating change 
decreased (roughly 55 10−× ) and, conversely, 
the average index level increased as 
accumulated total exposure time increased [Fig. 
4(c)]. This overexposure leads to obliteration 
of the fine structures of the index grating and 
results in a smeared reconstructed image with a 
noisy background, which can only be retrieved 
by a readout beam with a power density about 
10 times. 
Figure 5 presents the experimental setup 
of the transflective DHM system for 
measuring the refractive index profile of 
micro-optical elements. It primarily 
comprises both transmission and reflection 
architectures that incorporate a pair of 
piezoelectric-transducer-driven mirrors 
(PZT-M1 and PZT-M2) for phase-shifting 
process. Coherent light from a fiber 
pig-tailed laser diode with a wavelength of 
660 nm passed through a polarized beam 
splitter (PBS) and was separated into a probe 
beam and a reference beam. The probe beam 
was initially incident on the sample, causing 
partial reflection and transmission. The 
reflected wave interfered with the reference 
wave (R1) from PZT-M1 and the resulting 
holographic fringes were recorded on CCD1 
sensor (pixel number: 640 × 480; pixel size: 
7.4 × 7.4 μm2) for hologram reconstruction. 
The transmitted wave from the sample 
interfered with another reference wave (R2) 
from PZT-M2 and the resulting holographic 
fringes were recorded by CCD2 sensor to 
generate another hologram. The objectives 
(OB1 and OB2) with NA=0.5 were used to 
collect and magnify the structure of the 
sample to achieve a lateral resolution of 
around 1 μm. Also, the vertical resolution of 
the transmission and reflection ports was found 
to be around 5 nm, as determined without the 
use of the sample by the phase unwrapping 
procedure. The reconstructed images from the 
transmission and reflection ports were aligned 
pixel-to-pixel to reduce the shifting error 
between pixels from the different arms. Hence, 
as indicated by Eq. (10), the refractive index 
can be calculated to within 0.01. Next, the 
refractive index profile of a GRIN lens was 
measured using the transflective DHM system. 
Figure 6 plots the experimental refractive 
index profile of the GRIN lens (over only part 
of the measured area). Figure 6(a) and 6(b) 
plot the spatial distribution and the cross 
section of the refractive index profile, 
respectively. As revealed in the data sheet 
provided by the manufacturer, the maximum 
refractive index of the GRIN lens is 1.59 at a 
wavelength of1300 nm. In contrast, the 
experimental results in Fig. 6(b) show that the 
measured refractive index was between 1.59 
and 1.56 and the fitted data were almost  
 10
multi-wavelength digital holography," 
Opt. Exp. 15, 14591-14600 (2007). 
[7] M. de Angelis, S. De Nicola, A. Finizio, 
G. Pierattini, P. Ferraro, S. Pelli, G. 
Righini, and S. Sebastiani, 
“Digital-holography 
refractive-index-profile measurement of 
phase gratings,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 
111-114 (2006). 
[8] L. Hesselink, S. S. Orlov, A. Liu, A. 
Akella, D. Lande, and R. R. Neugaonkar, 
“Photorefractive materials for 
nonvolatile volume holographic data 
storage,” Science 282, 1089–1094 
(1998). 
[9] P. Günter and J. P. Huignard, 
Photorefractive Materials and Their 
Applications (Springer, Heidelberg, 
2007). 
[10] K. Y. Hsu, S. H. Lin, and Y.-N. Hsiao, 
"Experimental characterization of 
phenanthrenequinode-doped poly(methyl 
methacrylate) photopolymer for volume 
holographic storage," Opt. Eng. 42, 
1390-1396 (2003). 
[11] T. J. Trentler, J. E. Boyd, and V. L. 
Colvin, “Epoxy resin-photopolymer 
composites for volume holography,” 
Chem. Mater. 12, 1431–1438 (2000). 
[12] W. Choi, C. Fang-Yen, K. Badizadegan, 
S. Oh, N. Lue, R. R. Dasari, and M. S. 
Feld, "Tomographic phase microscopy," 
Nature Methods 4, 717-719 (2007). 
[13] I. Bányász, “Direct measurement of the 
refractive index profile of phase 
gratings, recorded in silver halide 
holographic materials by phase-contrast 
microscopy,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 83, 
4282-4284 (2003). 
[14] Y.-S. Ghim and S.-W. Kim, “Thin film 
thickness profile and its refractive index 
measurements by dispersive white-light 
interferometry,” Opt. Exp. 14, 
11885-11891 (2006). 
[15]  J. W. Goodman, Introduction to Fourier 
Optics, 3rd ed. (Roberts & Company, 
2005). 
[16] E. P. Hyatt, "Making thin, flat ceramics- 
a review," Am. Ceram. Soc. Bull. 65, 
637–638 (1986). 
[17] Y. C. Lin, Y. T. Lee, X. J. Lai, C. J. 
Cheng, and H. Y. Tu “In situ Mapping of 
Light-induced Refractive Index Gratings 
by Digital Holographic Microscopy,” 
Jpn. J. Appl. Phys 49, 10251 (2010). 
[18] Y. C. Lin and C. J. Cheng, “Determining 
refractive index profile of micro-optical 
elements using transflective digital 
holographic microscopy,” J. Opt. 12, 
115402 (2010). 
[19] C. J. Cheng, Y. C. Lin, and H. Y. Tu, 
“Three-dimensional Imaging of 
Light-induced Refractive Index Grating 
Using Digital Holographic Microscopy,” 
2010 OSA Topical Meeting:Digital 
Holography and Three-dimensional 
Imaging (DH2010), 2010. 
[20] C. J. Cheng, Y. C. Lin, and H. Y. Tu, “In 
Situ three-dimensional imaging by digital 
holographic microscopy,” International 
Conference on Optics-photonics Design & 
Fabrication (ODF’10), 2010. 
[21]Y. C. Lin and C. J. Cheng, “Low 
Coherence Phase-shifting Digital 
Holographic Microscopy for Sectional 
Imaging,” Optics & Photonics Taiwan 
(OPT’09), 2009. 
[22] Y. C. Lin and C. J. Cheng, 
“Tomographic Imaging of 
Projection-scanned Digital Holographic 
Microscopy,” Optics & Photonics 
Taiwan (OPT’10), 2010. 
[23] X. J. Lai, H. Y. Tu and C. J. Cheng, “In 
situ Surface Profile Measurement and 
Analysis of Living Cells Using Digital 
Holographic Microscopy,” Optics & 
Photonics Taiwan (OPT’10), 2010. 
[24] H. Y. Tu, Y. T. Lee, C. J. Cheng, and W. 
J. Hwang, “Real-time Phase Unwrapping 
of Digital Holographic Microscopy 
Using Graphic Processing Unit,” Optics 
& Photonics Taiwan (OPT’10), 2010. 
表 Y04 
一、參加會議經過 
    本 年 度 OSA Topical Meeting: Digital Holography and Three-dimensional 
Imaging(DH2010) 與 7th International Conference on Optics-photonics Design & 
Fabrication (ODF’10)分別於 4月 11-14 日與 4月 19-21 日舉行。 因此，筆者申請將兩個會
議連接成同一個行程，以避免出國來回兩趟奔波， 並節省飛行時間與旅費。 
第四屆 OSA 主題會議:「數位全像術暨三維成像研討會」 (Digital Holography and 
Three-dimensional Imaging, DH2009)於 4 月 11-14 日在美國佛州邁阿密 The Deauville 
Beach Resort Hotel 隆重召開。今年主辦單位美國光學學會(Optical Society of America, 
OSA)特別地結合另一主題會議：Biomedical Optics(BIOMED)領域共同舉行。  本次 DH2010
大會主席 Prof. Partha P. Banerjee (Univ. of Dayton)與共同主席 Prof. George 
Barbastathis (MIT, USA)、Prof. Hiroshi Yoshikawa (Nihon Univ.)邀請到世界知名學者
專家與會發表最新研究論文與成果，交流與討論數位全像術與三維成像領域的現況及未來發
展趨勢。 本次 DH 主題會議議程主要包含數位全像術與三維成像相關之元件、系統、演算
法、應用等主題，與會各國學者專家逾百人，總共發表逾百篇論文，其參與人數與發表論文
質量均比往年增加。尤其，值得注意的事，世界一流大學與研究團隊(MIT, Princeton Univ., 
Duke Univ.等)亦投入相關研究領域。 本次會議總共安排三天議程，除主題論文宣讀與壁報論
文展示活動，並安排四場 Tutorials、四場產業界演講與廠商展示會。 本次聯合主題會議除了
白天議程的學術論文發表以外，主辦單位 OSA 並於第一天晚間時分於 The Deauville Beach 
Resort Hotel 內廳安排 Reception，提供各國與會人士熱烈討論與交流。 本次會議筆者除
發表論文外，並獲邀擔任下一屆會議 program committee member，同時，該會創會主席兼
advisory committee Chair, Prof. Ting-Chung Poon 表示歡迎筆者能於臺灣舉辦此主題會
議。 會後隔天早晨，筆者搭機前往日本及參加橫濱 ODF’10 研討會。 
第七屆光學暨光子學設計與製造國際研討會(7th International Conference on 
Optics-photonics Design & Fabrication ,ODF’10) 於 4 月 19-21 日在日本橫濱 Pacifico 
Yokohama Conference Center 隆重召開。這是筆者第一次參加此會議， 並於會議中發表口
頭論文一篇。本次會議總共安排三天議程，包括 Optical Design/Simulation、New 
Technology、Optical Components/Devices、Optical System 等主題逾兩百餘篇論文，台灣
學者多人與會。 中央大學光電所李正中教授並獲邀於 Plenary Session 專題演講，內容豐
富而精彩。會中，筆者與國內外學者專家進行廣泛討論與交流，獲益良多。 
OSA Topical Meeting on Digital Holography and Three-Dimensional Imaging 2010 
Three-dimensional Imaging of Light-induced Refractive 
Index Gratings Using Digital Holographic Microscopy 
Chau-Jern Cheng, Yu-Chih Lin, and Han-Yen Tu* 
Institute of Electro-Optical Science and Technology, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei, Taiwan  
*Department of Electronic Engineering, St. John’s University, Taipei, Taiwan 
E-Mail: cjcheng@ntnu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract: We propose and demonstrate a novel technique for in situ measuring light-induced refractive 
index gratings in epoxy resin using digital holographic microscopy, which offers the possibility of direct 
observation of holographic recording in microscopic view.  
©2010 Optical Society of America 
OCIS codes: 090.1995; 180.6900; 210.2860 
 
1. Introduction 
Light-induced refractive index change medium [1] is one of the important issues for the holographic storage 
technologies [2, 3]. The refractive index of the media, including the photorefractive crystals, photopolymers etc., can 
be changed as the intensity distribution of the illumination light so that a coherent light beam with the information to 
be recoded interfered with a reference beam inside the media and then forms the holographic refractive index 
gratings. After the recording process, a reference beam is supposed to illuminate the light-induced hologram to 
readout the information recorded in the medium. The retrieved image quality is mainly depended on the optical 
properties of the light-induced materials and holograms. Hence, direct observation of the light-induced refractive 
index change in the holograms is necessary for the understanding and control of the optical recording process.  In 
this study, we present an in situ measurement technique for in situ observing the light-induced holographic grating 
by use of the phase-shifting digital holographic microscopy [4-6], which can access the complex wavefronts of the 
transparent specimens. As an example, the digital holographic microscopy system has been used to investigate the 
light-induced grating formation and refractive index profile in epoxy resin holographic recording media. 
 
2. Principle 
The conceptual diagram of the proposed digital holographic microscopy for in situ measuring the light-induced 
refractive index gratings in the holographic recording medium is shown in Fig. 1, which incorporates optical 
holographic recording scheme with a digital holographic microscope. For optical holographic recording, the object 
and reference beams coming from the same coherent laser source interfere inside an epoxy resin medium to induce 
refractive index changes and form a phase grating or hologram. For the sake of simplicity, we consider the thickness 
of epoxy resin medium is smaller than the spacing of interference fringes so that the Fresnel diffraction formula of 
thin hologram approximation is valid to carry out further. Herein, the digital holographic microscope is used to in 
situ measure the index grating by illuminating a weak probe beam with different wavelength on the epoxy resin 
sample. The transmitted beam from the index grating along with another reference beam are interfered and collected 
by a CCD to form a digital hologram. Thus, numerical reconstruction of the digital hologram can be executed to 
quantitatively analyze the grating formation and structures. 
Consider an object beam and a tilted reference beam is interfered to form an interference fringe intensity pattern. 
Thus, this interference pattern will induce a refractive index change inside the epoxy resin, in which the index 
change is proportional to the light intensity distribution. Therefore, the transmittance of the light-induced refractive 
index phase gratings can be written as 
 ( ) ( ) ,2, exp ,  H x y j n x y tπλ
⎡ ⎤= Δ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦         (1) 
where t  is the thickness of the epoxy resin medium and ( , )n x yΔ  is the light-induced refractive change 
approximated to 
( ) ( ){ }, 1 cos 2 .2 o omn x y u x v yπ⎡ ⎤Δ = + +⎣ ⎦        (2) 
The symbol m represents the peak-to-peak excursion of the index change. ou  and  ov   are the spatial frequencies 
(with respect to x and y) caused by the interference fringes. For direct observation of the grating formation in the 
epoxy resin, a digital holographic microscope is incorporated into the recording scheme to measure the 3-D index 
gratings. As shown in Fig. 1, a probe beam (with different wavelength) is supposed to illuminate the index grating, 
OSA Topical Meeting on Digital Holography and Three-Dimensional Imaging 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the light-induced refractive index hologram.  As shown in this result, a DHM system equipped with an objective 
lens will reconstruct clear image quality, because the higher numerical aperture can collect more spatial frequencies 
and the finer structures of the index hologram. The time evolution of 3-D phase image reconstructed from DHM 
scheme at different exposure time (i.e., after 10, 20 and 40 seconds) is shown in Fig. 3, this result performs the 
dynamic behavior of the holographic recording and the image reconstruction from DHM can be obtained by in situ 
measurement. 
     
 
 
 
 
4. Conclusions 
We have proposed and demonstrated an in situ measurement technique for three-dimensional imaging of the 
light-induced refractive index gratings in an epoxy resin holographic recording medium by use of digital 
holographic microscopy. The DHM system with large numerical aperture can collect the higher spatial frequencies 
of the sample under test and directly measure the fine grating structures of the light-induced index hologram. The 
technique offers the possibility of direct observation and better understanding of grating formation and dynamic 
behaviors of the light-induced refractive index gratings in the holographic recording medium.   
 
References: 
[1] P. Günter and J.-P. Huignard, Photorefractive Materials and Their Applications 3, Springer-Verlag, (2007).  
[2] H.J. Coufal, D. Psaltis, G. T. Sincerbox,”Holographic Data Storage”,Springer, New York (2000). 
[3] L. Hesselink, Science 282, 1089-1094 (1998). 
[4] T. Zhang and I. Yamaguchi , Opt. Lett. 23, 1221–1223, (1998). 
[5] F. Charrière, J. Kühn and T. Colomb, Appl Opt. 45, 829-835 (2006). 
[6] M. de Angelis, S. De Nicola, A. Finizio, G. Pierattini, P. Ferraro, S. Pelli, G. Righini, and S. Sebastiani, Appl. 
Phy. Lett., 88, 111114-1 (2006).  
Fig 2 Experimental setup of the digital holographic microscope system for in situ measuring the 
light-induced refractive index gratings. 
Fig. 3 3-D phase image reconstruction from the light-induced refractive index hologram at different exposure time 
by DHM. 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鄭超仁 計畫編號：98-2221-E-003-006- 
計畫名稱：全場、三維奈微米級解析數位全像顯微斷層攝影技術及應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 7 7 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 5 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
