  
摘要 
本計畫涵蓋了航空、無線通訊、飛行控制、影像處理及材料科學等研究領域，本系統規劃
建構以六架無人飛行鎂合金直昇機為一飛行群組，其中每一架無人飛行直昇機皆攜帶一組高
解析度攝影機，每一組攝影機的畫面將會透過無線通道傳送至救災派遣中心之主機，透過救
災派遣中心主機上的群組影像處理機制及群組影像定位導航機制下達群組定位命令至每一架
無人飛行直昇機，達到將每一具攝影機涵蓋範圍整合成一個無縫式的救災區域，再將此救災
區域的影像利用無線傳輸的方式由每一架無人飛行直昇機分別傳送至救災派遣中心的主機，
由於救災持續時間無法確定，滯空能力的提升亦是非常重要的課題，為了能導引此一無人飛
行直昇機群組執行群組移動且保持各機間固定的相對位置，使得各攝影機的影像範圍能維持
一定的重疊範圍，飛機群組與救災派遣中心及各飛機間的通訊架構、通訊協定及傳輸速率等
必須有經過縝密的規劃與設計，為了達到上述目標，本整合型計畫藉由五個子計畫，以進行
此整合型計畫。 
關鍵字: 航空；無線通訊；飛行控制；影像處理；材料科學；群組影像處理機制；群組影像
定位導航；無縫式的救災區域； 
 
Abstract 
This proposal contains the following researching fields: aerospace, wireless communication, flying 
control, digital video processing and materials engineering. There are total six magnesium helicopters to 
form a flying group and every helicopter carries a high-resolution camera. By integrating all individual video 
send from every helicopter’s camera, the group video will be displayed on the computer of the control center. 
In order to construct the seamless group video of the disaster relief area, the group video processing 
mechanism and the group video positioning navigation mechanism are applied. For maintaining the display 
stability of this group video, this system must have the capability of accurate positional navigation and flying 
control. Since it is unable to confirm how long the disaster relief duration will go on, the ability of stayed in 
the air is also a very important subject. In order to reach above-mentioned goals, total five stature plans are 
included in this proposal. 
  
圖 1 系統示意圖 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 2:群組影像定位機制之系統架構圖 
 
 
 
2.2 相鄰影像運算流程 
本研究之影像定位運算流程圖如圖 3 所示，
說明如下:當地面救災派遣中心收到直升機所回
傳之影像時，主控電腦之影像監控程式會於兩個
Start
Create searching area 
for every video 
Move one of two 
video in every 
direction
Compute cross-
correlation of  
searching area of two 
video
Two video overlapping in 
searching area ?
No
Hold these two video
Finished
Yes
 
圖 3:影像定位運算流程圖 
影像建立搜尋區域，接著固定其中一個影像，並
開始於各個方向移動另一個影像，並利用兩個影
像相對應之搜尋區域做相關運算，影像處理程式
會依據相關運算之結果來發出定位控制命令至
  
繼續此一研究。 
誌謝 
本研究計畫經費為國科會專題研究計畫補
助，計畫編號: NSC 96-2221-E-244 -003。 
 
參考文獻 
[1] Sen M Kuo, Bob H Lee and Wenshun Tian, 
Real-Time Digital Signal Processing 
Implementations and Applications Second 
Edition, WILEY, 2006.. 
[2] DON PEARSON, Image Processing, 
McGRAW-HILL, 1991 
[3] MathWorks, Inc., Image Processing 
Toolbox User's Guide, Version 7, 2007. 
[4] Craig Skibo, Marc Young, and Brian 
Johnson, Working with Visual Studio 2005, 
Microsoft, 2006. 
  
 
 
