

 
目           錄 
 
 
中文摘要    ……………………………………………………………………………  2 
 
英文摘要    ……………………………………………………………………………  3 
 
前言    ……………………………………………………………………………  4 
 
研究目的    ……………………………………………………………………………  7 
 
研究方法    ……………………………………………………………………………  11 
 
結果和討論  ……………………………………………………………………………  35 
 
成果與自評  ……………………………………………………………………………  41 
 
參考文獻    ……………………………………………………………………………  42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


二、 英文摘要 
Since mobile WiMAX using orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA), 
OFDMA (also known as multiuser OFDM) becomes very popular for next generation wireless 
communications. Different from traditional mobile WiMAX system design, we intend to develop a 
brand new cross-layer design from network layer to physical layer, so that overall network 
throughput efficiency can be optimized. We start from radio resource allocation, then pilot 
arrangement, channel estimation, synchronization, to AMC with MIMO/precoding. To further 
improve such cross-layer design, we introduce cooperative and cognitive communication and 
networking techniques to sense the communications/networking environments and to cooperate 
other nodes or receivers, so that the system performance can be further enhanced due to physical 
layer cooperation, MAC cooperation, cooperative radio resource management and relay, and 
sensing of OFDMA communication environments. Finally, we shall look into the generalization of 
programmable structure toward CDMA-OFDMA programmable design with cooperation at MAC 
and network layer as a conclusion of this proposed research. 

Keywords: OFDMA system, cooperative cognitive radio networks, dynamic spectrum access, 
resource allocation 
























Adaptive modulation and coding (AMC) is adopted by using QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM 
(optional in UL) as modulation, and convolutional codes (mandatory), turbo codes, low-density 
parity check codes for forward error correcting codes (FEC). Of most interests, space-time codes 
(STC) and spatial multiplexing (SM) are used to enhance PHY transmission speed and reception 
quality of signals from mobile stations. Along with adaptive antenna systems (AAS) using 
beamforming technique, STC and SM form the foundation of multi-input multi-output (MIMO) 
processing for the mobile WiMAX. 
STC is originated from pioneer work of transmit diversity coding by S. Alamouti, and Figure 2 
depicts the realization of closed-loop STC for mobile WiMAX, and Alamouti code as shown. There 
are 3 kinds of STC in the IEEE 802.16e OFDMA by using 2 or 3 antennas, while Alamouti code is 
one of them. 
 


In addition to STC and surely beamforming, spatial multiplexing can be further used, which is 
depicted in Figure 3. Spatial multiplexing transmits data streams via different spatial domains 
(typically multiple antennas). STC and spatial multiplexing can form the foundation of IEEE 
802.16e MIMO processing. BS can send control messages to indicate subsequent allocation shall 
use certain permutation with a specific transmit diversity mode, and to describe DL allocations 
assigned to MIMO enabled SSs by defining one of the 3 STC matrices. 


四、 研究目的 
For the purpose of the cross-layer design of OFDMA cooperative and cognitive 
communications system, we first analyze the delay control of opportunistic link in cognitive radio 
network in Part I, which can be used to maintain the QoS of CR in real systems. Then we focus on 
resource allocation of self-organized OFDMA wireless mesh network in Part II. This part is for 
achieving universal frequency reuse. At last, we design a communication processor for dynamic 
spectrum access using the above techniques. 
 
Part I 
Due to the underutilization of the existing scarce radio spectrum, dynamic spectrum access 
(DSA) for cognitive radios (CRs) is a promising solution receiving dramatic attentions [1]. In 
conventional development of CR technology, one common approach is the opportunistic spectrum 
access (OSA) [2], which allows CRs to seek and exploit the temporary spectrum holes without 
causing interference to primary system users (PUs). Under this consideration, the behavior of 
opportunistic transmission at a CR link introduces unpreventable delay. To network CRs as a 
cognitive radio network (CRN), Quality of Service (QoS) provisioning for end-to-end packet 
transmissions is an essential must. However, the aggregated delay from opportunistic links along a 
transmission path makes packet level QoS guarantee as a challenging issue. Since the availability of 
radio spectrum at an opportunistic link depends mainly on the activity of PUs in vicinity, it is 
infeasible to provide deterministic QoS guarantees (i.e., a zero probability of violating the QoS 
constraint) for end-to-end CR transmission along a path consisting of multiple opportunistic links 
(denoted as an opportunistic path). Throughout this part, the QoS guarantee is in statistical sense, 
that is, the QoS violation probability is ensured below a required value. Cooperative relay among 
CRs emerges as a solution to exploit user diversity and provides dramatic gains in reliability and 
capacity. Spatial diversity gain of a single communication link offered by beam-forming at a 
CR/cooperative relay was discussed in [3]–[5]. The authors in [6] proposed a mechanism to select 
the best relay from the potential CR relay group for the throughput maximization at a CR link under 
the QoS constraint of PUs. [7] explored the problem in a network perspective, where a cooperative 
scheduling algorithm was proposed to select a relay opportunistic path with the lowest packet 
dropping probability for end-to-end CR transmissions. To enable packet level QoS guarantees in 
CRN, this paper introduces redundant transmissions through multiple opportunistic paths to 
increases the reliability and availability. Specifically, same packet flows are simultaneously 
delivered over opportunistic paths in the same group to ensure the statistical delay. Since the larger 
number of groups leads higher aggregated throughput at the same time, this paper tries to maximize 
the number of groups while ensuring the statistical delay of each redundant transmission over the 
same group. This optimization problem is proved as the well known bin covering optimization with 
NP-hard complexity. By the proposed Round-Robin algorithm, simulation results show that the 
optimal performance can be achieved in the case that the statistical availabilities of all opportunistic 
links are the same. This work therefore provides an essential viewpoint that via cooperative relay 



carefully resolving this assumption. In addition, applying theoretical algorithms to practical 
systems with well-defined specifications is never straightforward. We need to twist existing 
algorithms or to develop new algorithms to fit the architecture (e.g. frame structure, feedback 
format, etc) of practical systems. 
 
Obviously, the challenge (i) includes the targets we try to achieve, the challenge (ii) is what we 
like to avoid and the challenge (iii) denotes the issues we need to consider when implementation. 
To conquer all the challenges, we find that OFDMA systems have the capability to dynamically 
adjust transmission power on subcarriers and to adaptively allocate subcarriers among users, to 
optimize system performance. The stable high-throughput green communications could be achieved 
by proper object functions in the optimization and the inter/intra cell interference could be 
controlled by using appropriate optimization constraints. 
The implementation considerations could be integrated by proper modifications of the 
optimization formulation. Therefore, OFDMA resource management is proposed as a suitable 
solution. We demonstrate such idea by developing a resource management for OFDMA 
self-organizing wireless mesh networks with BSs utilizing entire system spectrum. The CSI for 
resource management is collected by spectrum sensing [1] [2] to form a cognitive resource 
management [4] - [6], while spectrum sensing is originally proposed for Cognitive Radio [3]. Fig. 1 
depicts the block diagram, where blocks with bold boundary denote the essential functions. The 
system performance is optimized by properly allocating subcarriers among wireless links and 
distributing transmission power among subcarriers based on CSI of each link. The CSI includes two 
items, one is the available subcarriers which is used to control inter-cell interference and another is 
the channel fading of subcarriers which is used to support the optimizations. 
 



results in a great reduction of power consumption. The architecture was then verified in TSMC 
0.13µm CMOS process and achieved a power efficiency of 278 MOPS/mW. A projection 
performance with the latest 65nm CMOS processes technology allows us to achieve 2.2 GOPS/mW 
under a power consumption of 32mW. 



五、 研究方法 
Part I 
I. SYSTEM MODEL 
A. Network Topology 
We consider a network coexisted by CRs and PUs, where a CRN is existed consisting of a 
source CR (denoted as node nS), a destination CR (denoted as nD), and several relay CRs (denoted 
as nRs) that can help relay packet flows from the nS to nD. Assume that CRN is a slotted system and 
the nS and the nD are synchronous with time interval unit ∆t, which consists of spectrum sensing 
time and spectrum access time for data transmission. In the spectrum sensing period, the transmitter 
of the CR link shall perform channel sensing to identify whether the link is occupied by the PU. If it 
does, the subsequent data transmission period is unavailable for packet transmissions. We assume 
that the nS, the nD, and the nRs are mobile but stationary during each D time intervals, that is, the 
network topology varys per D∆t. Fig. 1 shows a stationary topology during some D∆t. Suppose that 
there are N possible opportunistic paths between the nS and the nD. The set of the N opportunistic 
paths is denoted as P = {p1, p2,… pN}, where the ith opportunistic path pi consists of Ki links, for i = 
1, 2,…N. The links number of all opportunistic paths are labeled by κ = {K1,K2,…KN}. We further 
assume that Ki is a geometric random variable with parameter α and denoted as G, (This 
notation is explained by the fact that a geometric random variable is a special case of a negative 
binomial random variable denoted by G, [8]), for i = 1, 2,…N. 




 
The mean of the random variable X2 is 
 
where V [X] is the variance of random variable X. For M/GI/1 queueing system, we can apply 
Pollaczek-Khinchin (P-K) formula [11] to obtain the average waiting time W of the packets in an 
opportunistic link as 
 
Thus, the statistical delay consisting of serving time and waiting time in an opportunistic link can be 
derived as 
 
2) Delay of an Opportunistic Path: The queueing model of the ith opportunistic path consisting 
of Ki opportunistic links will be derived as a M/Geo/1/∞/FCFS queueing system, where Ki is a 
geometric distribution with parameter α. Obviously, the service time of the opportunistic path is the 
geometric sum of geometric random variables and it can be derived as a geometric random variable 
with parameter απ∆t. By denote π
 = απ as the available of an opportunistic path, the service 
time random variable can be represented as G,. We assume that the random variables of paths 
are identically distributed, mutually independent, and independent of the inter arrival times. By 
adopting (5), the average delay of the packets in the ith opportunistic path D
 is 
 
for i = 1, 2, …N. 
3) Delay of a Group of Opportunistic Paths with Redundant Transmissions: Please note that 
the queueing model of the ith opportunistic path (M/Geo/1/∞/FCFS) can be represented as M/D/1/
∞/FCFS with arrival rate λ, service time ∆t, and available probability π
 = απ, for i = 1, 2,…N. 
Fig. 3 shows us an example. If n opportunistic paths are merged as a group (i.e., transmitted with 
the same session packet flows), similar to (6), the average delay of the packet flows via the group 
can be derived as 


available probability of each Gj is defined as 
 
In order to maximize system utilization (i.e., number of session packet flows assigned) and 
maximize aggregated bandwidth, we try to maximize the number of group M such that π ≥ η 
for all j = 1,…,M. We name this maximization problem as MAXG problem and formulate it as 
follows. 
 
We apply a polynomial time transformation in available probability of all opportunistic paths 
and threshold calculations, that is π 
 ! log &

'
( for i = 1,…,N and η) ! log & 
'*
(. In this case, 
the corresponding function to calculate available probability of a group is defined as 
 
The constraint (14) is modified as 
 
After the above polynomial time transformation, it is easy to observe that MAXG problem is 
equivalent to the bin covering problem [13], where one must pack the items into bins in such a way 
as to maximize the number of bins used, subject to the constraint that each bin be filled to at least a 
given bin size. The threshold η) and available probability π 
 , for i = 1,2,…,N are analogous to 
bin and item sizes, respectively. We now prove that MAXG problem is an NP-hard problem, based 
on a polynomial reduction from bin covering, which is known to be strongly NP-hard [14]. 
Bin covering Given a finite set U of items, a size 0 ≤ sui≤ 1 for each ui ∈ U (i = 1,…N), a 
positive threshold T. What is the maximum number M such that U can be partitioned into sets 
X1,X2…XM, where each set has total size 
 


 
The current number of groups and current availability probability of the current group is 
denoted as m and π+,. After initialization of m and π+, at lines 1-2, lines 3-10 sequently 
group path pi ∈ P to satisfy constraint (14) in a round robin fashion. At lines 4-5, an ungrouped 
opportunistic path with availability probability larger than threshold makes current group “full” and 
m is increased by one. O(1) arithmetic operations are respectively needed to find whether the 
available probability of each opportunistic path exceeds the threshold and to increase the number of 
group. If the availability probability does not exceed, line 7 updates the availability probability of 
current group after adding the current path, which takes O(1) arithmetic operations. At lines 8-10, if 
adding current path to current group makes availability probability of current group larger than 
threshold, m is increased by one. As a result, the nS only needs O(N) arithmetic operations to 
complete RR algorithm. 
 
 
Part II 
I. STABLE HIGH-THROUGHPUT GREEN COMMUNICATIONS
As we mentioned above, the throughput provided in every cell has to be high and stable and 
the global trend of environmental protection introduce the concept of green communications to keep 
the power consumption of communication devices as low as possible. In this section, we 
demonstrate possible object functions which could be utilized in resource optimization to achieve 
high and stable throughput while to maintain green communications. We start from the 
maximization of throughput and then consider the case to minimize outage probability. The green 
communications are approached by an objection function to minimize total transmission power. 
Finally, we introduce the utility generalization to support multiple requirements simultaneously. 
 
A. Maximization of Throughput 
Considering a cell with one BS utilizing N subcarriers to serve K users, there exists one link 
from BS to every user and thus there are L = K links in the cell. We use n, l and k as subcarrier, link 
and user index, where l = k. In general, to maximize the throughput provided by this BS we need to 
allocate subcarriers among links and to allocate power among subcarriers jointly according to CSI 



                  (4) 
Since γl is explicitly related to the transmission power pl via the channel gain Hl on link l as 
γ7 !
;<;
=5
, the solution p?  and p.?  can be found by Lagrange multiplier method as
                (5) 
The above example could be generalized to the cases with R > 1 and to OFDMA systems easily. 
We could develop algorithms based on the insight obtained from this example. 

C. Minimization of Transmission Power 
The global trend of environmental protection introduces the novel concept of green radio. It 
means the power consumption of all communication devices should be reduced as small as possible. 
In this section we consider a scenario similar to section II-A, where one BS utilizing N subcarriers 
to serve K users, and demonstrate we can approach the green communications by the object 
function below [15]. 
                 (6) 
Function (6) is to minimize total transmission power PT by properly allocating data bits among 
subcarriers and subcarriers among links. The cn,l denotes the number of bits loaded to subcarrier n 
of link l, and the function f(cn,l, Hn,l) denote the transmission power required by subcarrier n of link l 
with channel gain Hn,l to transmit cn,l bits. If AWGN channel is considered, the function f(cn,l, Hn,l) 
could be formulated as f(cn,l, Hn,l) = @=5
<A,;
&2CA,; D 1(, where N0 is the noise power spectrum density 
and ζ is a constant. Similarly as (1), we introduce constraints to complete the optimization in next 
section. 
 
D. Utility Generalization 
Up to this point, we have demonstrated three object functions each to maximize total 
throughput, to minimize outage probability and to minimize total transmission power. But in 
practical systems we usually have multiple concerns such as to maximize throughput and to 


On the other hand, there exists another approach to avoid inter-cell interference by jointly 
allocating subcarriers and transmission power among links [19] [20]. In this case, each BS assigns 
subcarriers to the links which introduce least interference to active links in other cells using the 
same subcarriers. For example, the BS m can assign subcarrier n to the link l with maximum tl 
defined as follows, where An is the set of links in other cells (i.e. link v under BS u) transmitting on 
subcarrier n already. 
                    (8) 
When subcarriers have been allocated to links in all cells, the transmission power of each link 
is determined to satisfy the pre-specified Carrier to Interference Ratio (CIR).
                (9)
The pn,l,m is the transmission power on subcarrier n of link l under BS m, which could be determined 
by the following equation (4) which is re-arranged from (3).
           (10)
The solution of (4) could be found by the important result in [21], which says that “the largest 
achievable CIR in (10) is γ? ! 
M?'
 , where λ? is the largest real eigenvalue of matrix Z and the 
power vector P* achieving this CIR is just the eigenvector corresponding to λ?. 

B. Intra-cell Interference Control 
In this subsection we follow the scenario and object functions in section I-A (maximize 
throughput) and I-C (minimize transmission power), but to complete the optimizations by 
integrating constraints to avoid intra-cell interference. We start from the cases that no user can relay 
data for others, and then consider mesh networks with cooperative relay. In the case without relay 
and throughput maximization, the intra-cell interference can be alleviated by a constraint to allocate 
non-overlapping subcarriers to links, which can be formulated as follows [7]. 


vector sk ∈ RK+1 for each destination user k, where user index k is generalized to include BS as k = 
0.

In A, the row represents the condition of each user and thus k is ranged from 0 to K, but its column 
represents links and thus l is ranged from 1 to L. On the other hand, the total number of vector sk is 
K and the index m of each vector is ranged from 0 to K to integrate BS as k = 0. The first element of 
each sk means the throughput outflow from user 0 (BS) to user k, and thus is set as Ck. Similarly, the 
(k +1)th element of sk means throughput merged into user k, and thus is set as −Ck. Based the two 
matrices, the network flow conservation can be written as 
                (15) 
In this constraint, x,7  denote the throughput intended to user k on sub-carrier n of link l, and 
the throughput of link l can be calculated as C7 ! ∑ ∑ x,7SP=P . To illustrate the constraint clearly, 
we take the mesh network in Fig. 2 (a) with three users (K = 3) and eight sub-carriers (N = 8) as 
example. Since one BS and 3 users are included, there are L = 9 links. We describe both the network 
flow conservation constraint for user 3 and the throughput for link 4 in Fig. 2 (a). The 
corresponding node-link incidence matrix A and source-sink vector sk are described in Fig. 2 (b). 
 
 
 


(i.e. AWGN channel assumption), and thus could be described by chi-square distribution as follows, 
where σ.  is noise variance.
                  (16)
On the other hand if one subcarrier is occupied by interference from other cells (H1), the 
measured power at the frequency of this subcarrier includes both interference and noise as p = pI + 
pn. Under the assumption that the interference power pI is Gaussian distributed random variable, the 
measured power p under H1 could be described as follows, where mI and σ.  are mean and variance 
of pI . 
(17)
By (16) and (17), we can formulate a hypothesis test to identify the availability of subcarrier. The 
test threshold η could be adaptively estimated by Lloyd-Max Algorithm [49], which is an iterative 
learning algorithm from vector quantization.
  (18) 
Please note, to practically execute this hypothesis, the parameters σ. , mI , σU.  are needed. 
Assuming there are 2W power measurements for each of the two hypotheses as p
<5 , p.
<5 … pW
<5
 and 
p
<X , p.
<X … pW
<X
, those parameters can be estimated as follows. 
    (19)
Then, each user can identify available subcarriers by this hypothesis and BS can utilize such 
information in resource management to avoid inter-cell interference. 
 
B. Throughput Maximization and Inter/Intra Cell Interference Control 
Based on the subcarrier identification algorithm, BS can have the information that which 
subcarrier is available for each link. Since the channel gains of links Hn,l are also known by BS from 
user feedback, the BS can maximize throughput and avoid inter/intra cell interference by the 
optimization as follows. 


D. Reduced-complexity Algorithm 
Obviously, finding optimal allocation of (20) would consume too much time and thus is 
inappropriate for advanced systems with tight delay constraint. We then propose a 
reduced-complexity optimization algorithm for (20). The algorithm is described as follows. 
 
In this algorithm, the optimization (20) is resolved by two steps. In step 1 we deal with a 
condition that no user can relay data for others and allocate power and subcarriers among links. 
This step is completed by first allocating transmission power to links such that all links result in the 
same average channel gain, and then uniformly allocating the remained power to all subcarriers. Via 
this way, the subcarrier allocation can be completed by a linear binary integer programming. In step 
2, we take the advantage of relay to further enhance systems throughput. Every relay route is 
selected only when it can produce more throughput than direct link. Via this way, we can approach 
the maximum system throughput at lower complexity. Please note, the information delay reduction 
is integrated in step 2, where the maximum number of relay links of each user limited to Q.

Part III 
I. ANALYSIS OF ALGORITHMS
Each communication system involves various kinds of DSP functionalities which involves a 
wide variety of algorithms. However, the core mathematical structure often exhibits a high degree 
of similarity among each other. To capture the most fundamental algorithmic properties inherited in 
communication systems, we selected several widely applied communication kernels (i.e. 
synchronization, channel estimation, etc.) and analyzed the mathematical structure among them. 
Each represents a different stage of signal processing within a communication system (i.e. complex 
number, bit level processing). 
 
A. Synchronization 
Synchronization involves the acquisition of timing, phase and frequency. [13] summarized 



+ 1 branch metric computation and path metric selection which gives a complexity of O(m · 2k). To 
leverage the maximum parallelism, the received codeword can be broadcast to multiple PEs and 
compute the branch metric simultaneously. However, the path metric exchange overhead must be 
minimized. [16] shown that the trellis diagram can be rearranged and transformed into a radix-2 
DIT FFT butterfly diagram. This property enables us to utilize a specifically designed data 
exchange bus to reduce the data exchange time and minimize the overhead. In addition, the data 
exchange bus can also accelerate the computation of FFT and cyclostationary detection spectrum 
sensing algorithms. 
 
II. PROPOSED ARCHITECTURE 
We have extracted several characteristics shared among several widely adopted 
communication algorithms. The highly parallel communication algorithms suggests processor 
architecture to incorporate massive amount of PEs, which posses a great challenge on how to 
organize the date distribution network. The high degree of input data parallelism can be utilized to 
resolve the critical data distribution network design. By incorporating a data broadcast bus into our 
communication processor, input data can be efficiently distributed to each PE and eliminate a power 
hunger wide data distribution network. 
In order to design a green communication processor, several dominating power consuming 
factor must be tackled. The first is to allow low clock frequency operation while still able to meet 
the system hard real-time requirements. This implies utilizing sufficient PEs to perform extremely 
high amount of computation within each cycle. Secondly, on-chip memory size must be minimized 
to decrease the die size. And finally, the amount of RF access needs to be reduced since accessing 
large RF frequently is a power consuming action. This can be achieved by deploring small local 
RFs and using registers to store temporary results. 
The overall architecture of our proposed communication processor is summarized in Fig. 1. 
The processor incorporates vast amounts of simple processing elements which are interconnected 
into a 1D array. Each PE is interconnected with a data broadcast bus which allows efficient data 
distribution and eliminates a power hunger data exchange network. A two-mode PE controller is 
incorporated to take advantage of the structured and regular operation issuing of communication 
algorithms in order to effectively distribute controlling instructions and also provide a scalable 
design. Two separate processing element (PE) and data fetch (DF) controllers are utilized to exploit 
the algorithmic periodic properties exhibited in both the data indexing and operand execution of 
communication algorithms. 
 


decoder and a register file. The local instruction decoder combines the issued instruction, PE ID, 
and the butterfly stage register to generate the required control signals for dynamic controlling. 
Each PE incorporates four 16-bit multipliers, five 32-bit adders, and a barrel shifter to allow 
complex operations be computed within a single cycle. All operations are computed with no 
precision loss and scaled down only at the ”Shift L/R Stage” for each instruction. All PEs are 
linearly connected to form a 1D PE array along with two separate data channels to enable 
bi-directional data flow with adjacent PEs. Without sacrificing computation time for data 
communication, each data exchange can be overlapped with data processing. Data generated by 
adjacent PEs are also able to be directly fetched into computation, which couples the nearby PEs to 
form an efficient parallel processing unit. This allows data generated by adjacent PEs to bypass RF 
access and thus reducing the amount of power consumption. 
 
 
C. PE controller 
Providing an efficient controller to manage the large amount of PEs is a critical issue. VLIW 
architecture devotes a large amount of memory to code storage; while reconfigurable architectures 
relies on a large configuration file which requires long reconfiguration time. We proposed a 
two-mode PE controller which issues a 16-bit instruction on each cycle. The instruction size is 
independent to the amount of PEs which provide a scalable controller, while also allowing 
cycle-fast reprogramming. The PE controller operates in two mode: broadcast or sequential mode. 
Under broadcast mode, the same instruction is issued to all PEs with a different set of fetched data. 
This is commonly known as Single Instruction, Multiple Data (SIMD). This allows efficient 
utilization of data level parallelism (DLP) inherited in communication algorithms with just a single 
instruction. While issuing dynamic instructions, each PE utilizes its local instruction decoder to 


 
 
B. FFT 
Our proposed processor can compute any power of 2 FFT. However, the processing time is 
strongly related to the amount of PEs. A maximum processing speed is achieved when the PE 
amount matches the FFT size. For simplicity of illustration, we only demonstrate the mapping of an 
8-point FFT. With proper ordering of data, one single BUTFLY instruction is capable to perform 
one stage of FFT processing. The BUTFLY is an compound instruction which acts cooperatively 
with a butterfly stage register. As shown in Fig. 5, the butterfly stage register stores a ID Mask and 
each PE receiving a BUTFLY instruction will mask their own PE ID number to determine rather to 
execute a complex MAC or MSUB instruction. This also controls each PE to fetch data from 
adjacent left or right PE. Temporary results are exchanged through the RDXB, which also 
reconfigures according to the butterfly stage register. The RDXB creates a express highway to 
reduce the date exchange time by half when bypassing 2stage PEs. This results in 2stage−1 cycles of 
data exchange time for each stage. 
 
 
C. Spectrum sensing 
We consider the energy detection method proposed by [15]. Energy detector performs a square 
sum over all samples of the FFT output. For each input data, only one square operation is involved, 
therefore, no input data parallelism can be utilized. As a result, only one PE is active to computes 
the square of the input data and accumulates the result. 
 
D. Viterbi decoding 
In order to demonstrate the operation of our proposed communication processor involving 


 
 
F. Reconfigure Between Multi-systems 
Fast reconfiguration between multiple systems is required to support DSA. We minimized the 
hard controls in our processor to allow fast reconfiguration by simply reloading several control 
registers. 
Two level of reconfiguration is involved: parameter reconfiguration or system reprogramming. 
Parameter reconfiguration only involves changing the parameter within the same system, such as 
changing the FFT size. The reconfiguration is simply done by modifying the LOOP COUNT 
register. System reprogramming requires modifying the sequence and mathematical structure of the 
DSP kernel chain. For example, switching from WiMAX to WCDMA requires modifying the 
whole system kernels, such as replacing the FFT with a despreader and RAKE receiver. This level 
of reconfiguration requires redirecting the program counter to another memory space. However, 
since the specially designed instruction set minimizes the program footprint, several system 
programs can be stored in the on-chip memory to allow rapid program switching within several 
cycles. 
 

六、 結果和討論 
Part I 
The parameters we set are shown in Table I. We randomly generate the matrix κ which Ki ∈ 
κ follows G&,(, for i = 1, 2,…N. If we attempt to constrain the average delay to be lower than a 
given τ, we must guarantee the available probability of each group higher than η (i.e., we can 
obtain η = 0.3417 from (7). Thus, we can provide statistical delay guarantee (i.e., dropping 
probability is lower than 0.01) by Markov inequality (9). From the Fig. 5, the simulation results 
show that the Round Robin algorithm achieves the optimal performance of the MAXG. When π is 
higher than 0.9, the average delay of each opportunistic path is lower than τ. Thus, there are N (i.e., 
10) groups. We find that nS must merge more opportunistic paths as a group to transmit packet 
flows such the requirement of average delay can be achieved in the lower π (i.e., available 
probability of opportunistic links). 


integrate relay, and could improve slightly performance from the first step without relay. Due to the 
proposed reduced-overhead feedback control, each user can select Q relay links in addition to the 
direct link from BS to reduce the number of feedback bit. From Fig. 5 we can see that, although the 
number of feedback bits is reduced from KNbH to (Q + 1)NbH, there is almost no performance loss. 
We further demonstrate the network throughput with 3 cells reusing the same spectrum in Fig. 6. 
The FDMA-OFDM with frequency reuse factor as 3 is again used as benchmark. From this figure 
we can observe the proposed algorithm can achieve more than 3 times throughput than benchmark. 
Such gain is contributed from the dynamic resource allocation and the universal frequency reuse. 
The arithmetic operations of proposed algorithm 1 with Q = K−1 and Q = 1 are demonstrated in 
Fig. 7 to evaluate their computation complexity, in this figure the greedy search algorithm is 
selected as benchmark. We can observe that the proposed algorithm 1 can save significant 
arithmetic operations, and the computation load is increased almost linearly with number of users, 
instead of exponential increase as greedy search algorithm. Moreover, the complexity difference 
between algorithm 1 with Q = K – 1 and algorithm 1 with Q = 1 is large but the throughput 
difference is small, Q = 1 may be a better choice in practical systems than Q = K − 1. 
 



 
 
 
Part III 
To evaluate our design, we implemented our green communication processor in verilog RTL 
code and executed several critical communication kernels. The simulated results are compared with 
a Matlab version of each algorithm to verify the correctness of each architectural decision. We 
synthesized our design in TSMC 0.13µm CMOS process and summarized the estimated gate count 
and power consumption in TABLE II. 
The 64 PE implementation is capable of operating up to 50 MHz with a power dissipation of 
126 mW. The low operating frequency facilitates the reduction in power consumption compared to 
other conventional DSP processor which operates around several hundred MHz. As PE amount 
increases linearly, the area and power consumption of computation units also increases linearly. 
However, the complexity of the PE controller remains unchanged which contributes to the overall 
reduction of mW/PE. 
Due to the complex instruction set, each PE is able to execute 10 operations per cycle. This 
delivers a power efficiency of 278 MOPS/mW for a 64 PE implementation, which is an order less 
the SDR application requirements. However, scaling the performance metric to 65nm CMOS 
processes technology delivers power efficiency up to 2.2 GOPS/mW with a power consumption of 
32 mW. This meets the harsh requirements for operating DSA on mobile device and verifies the 
architectural decisions in our design. 
TABLE III summarizes the computation time and the instruction size required for several 
communication kernels. As shown, each kernel only involves several instructions to program the 
underlying processor. The compactness of instructions allows each kernel to minimize the occupied 
instruction memory, which significantly reduces the power consumption generated by on-chip 
memory. 


七、 成果與自評 
Part I 
This report proposes a statistical control mechanism which chooses multiple opportunistic 
paths (each opportunistic path consists of opportunistic links) as a group to transmit packet flows 
such that the statistical delay of this group is restricted to be lower than a target threshold. We 
further propose an algorithm to partition all possible opportunistic paths into several groups so that 
the average delay of packet flows in each group is constrained and the maximum number of groups 
is identified. The partition optimization problem is proved to be the well known bin covering 
optimization with NP complexity. A specific case that the statistical availability of all opportunistic 
links are the same is investigated to understand the intrinsic behavior of our problem. By the 
proposed RR algorithm, simulation results show that the maximum number of groups can be 
achieved in the case, thereby providing an essential viewpoint for further studies on general CRN 
topology. 
 
 
Part II 
In this part, resource management plays a key role in future wireless mesh networks to achieve 
universal frequency reuse by self-organization. We summarize challenges into three classes as 
high/stable throughput with green communications, inter/intra cell interference control and 
implementations. Via systematic literature review, we present that the high/stable throughput with 
green communications could be achieved by defining the object function in resource optimization 
appropriately, and the inter/intra cell interference control could be realized by proper constraints, 
and the implementation challenges could be resolved by modification of optimizations and efficient 
algorithms. We further propose a cognitive resource management in which every BS could utilize 
entire system spectrum to maximize network throughput by (a) proposed hypothesis test to identify 
available subcarriers of each link (b) cross-layer optimization with object function to maximize 
network throughput and with constraints to avoid inter/intra cell interference. We resolve the 
computation complexity and the the delay to obtain CSI by proposing a reduced-complexity 
algorithm integrating feedback control. In numerical results, we demonstrate the proposed resource 
management can significantly improve network throughput over benchmark. Considering the 
network architectures of advanced systems such as LTE-Advanced and WiMAX 2 are going to be 
mesh with UFR without central control, we wish to pave a way toward future wireless systems. 
 
 
Part III 
A green communication processor for efficiently executing digital communication algorithms 
is the foundation of DSA. By exploiting the fundamental mathematical structure in various 
communication algorithms along with the design of the underlying processor architecture, we 
successfully designed a green communication processor to deliver an extremely high speed 


[7] S.-Y. Lien, N. R. Prasad, K.-C. Chen, and C.-W. Su, “Providing statistical quality-of-service 
guarantees in cognitive radio networks with cooperation,” in Proc. CogART 2009, May 2009, 
pp. 6–11. 
[8] R. Nelson, Probability, Stochastic Processes, and Queueing Theory: The Mathematics of 
Computer Performance Modeling. Springer, 2000. 
[9] K.-C. Chen, B. K. Cetin, Y.-C. Peng, N. Prasad, J. Wang, and S. Lee, “Routing for cognitive 
radio networks consisting of opportunistic links,” Wiely Wireless Communications and Mobile 
Computing, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 451–466, Apr. 2010. 
[10] Q. Zhao, S. Geirhofer, L. Tong, and B. M. Sadler, “Opportunistic spectrum access via periodic 
channel sensing,” IEEE Trans. Signal Process., vol. 56, no. 2, pp. 785–796, Feb. 2008. 
[11] D. Gross, J. F. Shortle, J. M. Thompson, and C. M. Harris, Fundamentals of Queueing Theory, 
4th ed. Wiley-Interscience, 2008. 
[12] A. Papoulis, Probability, Random Variables, and Stochastic Processes. McGraw-Hill, 1984. 
[13] S. F. Assman, D. S. Johnson, D. J. Kleitman, and J. Y.-T. Leung, “On a dual version of the 
one-dimensional bin packing problem,” Journal of algorithms, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 502–525, Dec. 
1984. 
[14] S. F. Assmann, “Problems in discrete applied mathematics,” Ph.D. dissertation, MIT, 
Cambridge, MA, 1983. 
 
References of Part II 
[1] S.Y. Tu, K.C. Chen, “General Spectrum Sensing in Cognitive Radio Networks,” Submitted to 
Transactions on Information Theory, IEEE, 
[2] A. Ghasemi and E.S. Sousa, “Spectrum sensing in cognitive radio networks: requirements, 
challenges and design trade-offs,” Communications Magazine, IEEE, vol. 46, no. 4, pp. 32-39, 
April 2008. 
[3] S. Haykin, “Cognitive radio: brain-empowered wireless communications,” Selected Areas in 
Communications, IEEE Journal on, vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 201-220, February 2005. 
[4] F.S. Chu and K.C. Chen, “Radio resource allocation in OFDMA cognitive radio systems,” 
Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communication, IEEE, Athens, Greece, September 2007, 
pp. 1-5. 
[5] F. Khozeimeh, S. Haykin, “Dynamic spectrum management for cognitive radio: an overview,” 
Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing, vol. 9, no. 11, pp. 1447-1459, November 
2009. 
[6] Simone Frattasi, Nicola Marchetti, Ivan Cosovic, Lars Berlemann, “Cognitive radio and 
advanced spectrum management,” Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing, vol. 9, no 
11, pp. 1443-1446, November 2009. 
[7] Zukang Shen, J.G. Andrews, B.L. Evans, “Adaptive resource allocation in multiuser OFDM 
systems with proportional rate constraints,” Wireless Communications, IEEE Transactions on, 
vol. 4, no. 6, pp. 2726-2737, November 2005. 


Vehicular Technology, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 41, no. 1, pp. 57-62, February 1992. 
[22] Y. Liu, R. Hoshyar, X. Yang, R. Tafazolli, “Integrated Radio Resource Allocation for 
Multihop Cellular Networks With Fixed Relay Stations,” Selected Areas in Communications, 
IEEE Journal on, vol. 24, no. 11, pp. 2137-2146, November 2006. 
[23] T.C.-Y. Ng, W. Yu, “Joint optimization of relay strategies and resource allocations in 
cooperative cellular networks,” Selected Areas in Communications, IEEE Journal on, vol. 25, 
no. 2, pp. 328-339, February 2007. 
[24] Seung-Jun Kim, Xiaodong Wang, M. Madihian, “Optimal resource allocation in multi-hop 
OFDMA wireless networks with cooperative relay,” Wireless Communications, IEEE 
Transactions on, vol. 7, no. 5, pp. 1833-1838, May 2008. 
[25] Lin Xiao, M. Johansson, S.P. Boyd, “Simultaneous routing and resource allocation via dual 
decomposition,” Communications, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 52, no. 7, pp. 1136-1144, July 
2004. 
[26] A.H. Mohsenian-Rad, V.W.S. Wong, “Joint logical topology design, interface assignment, 
channel allocation, and routing for multi-channel wireless mesh networks,” Wireless 
Communications, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 6, no. 12, pp. 4432-4440, December 2007. 
[27] L.W. Chen, Y.C. Tseng, Y.C. Wang, D.W. Wang, J.J. Wu, “Exploiting Spectral Reuse in 
Routing, Resource Allocation, and Scheduling for IEEE 802.16 Mesh Networks,” Vehicular 
Technology, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 301-313,January 2009. 
[28] Zhiwei Mao, Xianmin Wang, “Efficient optimal and suboptimal radio resource allocation in 
OFDMA system,” Wireless Communications, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 7, no 2, pp. 440-445, 
February 2008. 
[29] C. Mohanram, S. Bhashyam, “A sub-optimal joint subcarrier and power allocation algorithm 
for multiuser OFDM,” Communications Letters, IEEE, vol. 9, no. 8, pp. 685-687, August 2005. 
[30] Hanbyul Seo, Byeong Gi Lee, “Proportional-fair power allocation with CDF-based scheduling 
for fair and efficient multiuser OFDM systems,” Wireless Communications, IEEE Transactions 
on, vol. 5, no. 5, pp. 978-983, May 2006. 
[31] Ying Jun Zhang, K.B. Letaief, “Multiuser adaptive subcarrier-and-bit allocation with adaptive 
cell selection for OFDM systems,” Wireless Communications, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 3, no. 
5, pp. 1566-1575, September 2004. 
[32] D. Kivanc, Guoqing Li, Hui Liu, “Computationally efficient bandwidth allocation and power 
control for OFDMA,” Wireless Communications, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 2, no. 6, pp. 
1150-1158 November 2003. 
[33] A. Feiten, R. Mathar, M. Reyer, “Rate and Power Allocation for Multiuser OFDM: An 
Effective Heuristic Verified by Branch-and-Bound,” Wireless Communications, IEEE 
Transactions on, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 60-64, January 2008. 
[34] Jiho Jang, Kwang Bok Lee, “Transmit power adaptation for multiuser OFDM systems,” 
Selected Areas in Communications, IEEE Journal on, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 171-178, February 
2003. 


[49] A. Gersho, “On the structure of Vector Quantization,” Information Theory, IEEE Transaction 
On, IT-28, pp. 163 - 174, 1982. 
[50] K.C. Chen, P.Y. Chen, N. Prasad, Y.C. Liang, Sumei Sun “Trusted cognitive radio networking,” 
Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 467-485, April 2010. 
 
References of Part III 
[1] J. Mitola III and G. Q. Maquire, Jr, “Cognitive radio: making software radios more personal,” 
IEEE personal communications, Aug. 1999 
[2] K. C. Chen and R. Prasad, Cognitive Radio Networks, Wiley, 2009. 
[3] D. B. Noonburg and J. P. Shen, “A framework for statistical modeling of superscalar processor 
performance,” High-Performance Computer Architecture, 1997., Third International 
Symposium on, pp.298-309, 1-5 Feb 1997. 
[4] A. Abnous, K. Seno, Y. Ichikawa, M. Wan, and J. Rabaey, “Evaluation of a Low-Power 
Reconfigurable DSP Architecture,” Proceedings Parallel and Distributed Processing. SPDP ’98 
Workshops, Orlando, Florida, USA, March 1998. 
[5] I. Seskar and N. B. Mandayam, “A Software Radio Architecture for Linear Multiuser Detection,” 
IEEE JSAC, 17(5):814V823, May 1999. 
[6] K. C. Chen and S. T. Wu, “A Programmable Architecture for OFDMCDMA,” IEEE 
CommunicationsMagazine feature subject on Software and DSP in Radio, pp. 76-82, Nov. 
1999. 
[7] S. Rajagopal, “Communication Processors,” Wiley encyclopedia of computer science and 
engineering, July, 2005. 
[8] M. Etelapera and J.-P. Soininen, “4G Mobile Terminal Architectures,” VTT ROOSTER project, 
2007. 
[9] J. Glossner, D. Iancu, M. Moudgill, G. Nacer, S. Jinturkar, S. Stanley, and M. Schulte, “The 
sandbridge sb3011 platform,” EURASIP J. Embedded Syst., vol. 2007, no. 1, pp. 16.16, 2007. 
[10] C. Grassmann, M. Richter, and M. Sauermann, “Mapping the Physical Layer of Radio 
Standards to Multiprocessor Architectures,” Design, Automation & Test in Europe Conference 
& Exhibition, 2007. DATE ’07, pp.341-346, Oct. 29 2006-Nov. 1 2006. 
[11] D. C. Cronquist, C. Fisher, M. Figueroa, P. Franklin, and C. Ebeling, “Architecture Design of 
Reconfigurable Pipelined Datapaths,” Proc. Conf. Advanced Research in VLSI, pp. 23-40, 
1999. 
[12] A. Kamalizad, N. Tabrizi, N. Bagherzadeh, and A. Hatanaka, “A programmable DSP 
architecture for wireless communication systems,” Application-Specific Systems, Architecture 
Processors, 2005. ASAP 2005. 16th IEEE International Conference on, pp. 231-238, 23-25 July 
2005. 
[13] M. Morelli, C.-C.J. Kuo, and M.-O. Pun, “Synchronization Techniques for Orthogonal 
Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA): A Tutorial Review,” Proceedings of the IEEE, 
vol.95, no.7, pp.1394-1427, July 2007. 
出席國際學術會議心得報告(一) 
                                                             
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳光禎 
台灣大學電信工程學研究所 
會議時間地點 2010/05/23~5/27 南非  
會議名稱 IEEE International Conference on Communications (IEEE ICC 2010) 
 
本年度的 IEEE International Conference on Communications (IEEE ICC 2010) 
於 5 月 23-27 日在南非開普敦舉辦。IEEE ICC 為 IEEE 通訊社群(Communication 
Society)兩大旗艦會議之一（另一個旗艦會議為 IEEE Blobecom），為世界上研討
通訊理論、無線通訊、(無線)網路、光通訊、社群網路等最頂尖的研討會。這次
大會共吸引 2618 篇論文投稿，1060 篇論文獲得錄取，錄取率為 39%。本人所領
導實驗室本次共錄取三篇論文： 
 Shao-Yu Lien and Kwang-Cheng Chen, “Cognitive Radio Resource 
Management for QoS Guarantees in Autonomous Femtocell Networks,”in Proc. 
IEEE ICC, 2010. 
 Tzu-Tu Chung, “Trust with Social Network Learning in E-Commerce,” in 
Proc. IEEE ICC, 2010. 
 Weng-Chon Ao, Shin-Ming Cheng and Kwang-Cheng Chen, “Power and 
Interference Control with Relaying in Cooperative Cognitive Radio Network,” 
in Proc. IEEE ICC, 2010. 
一、參加會議 
本人在九十九年六月二十九日至六月三十日參加位於法國凱恩(Caen)舉行
的The 6th  International Wireless Communications & Mobile Computing Conference 
(IWCMC2010)，並有幸獲邀擔任 Invited Speaker，講題為「Synthetic Aperture Radar 
Construction of Spectrum Map for Cognitive Radio Networking」。 IWCMC2010 會
議之主旨為「Innovative Communication for a Better Future」－創新通訊之於更好
的未來，目標在於利用最先進技術之頻譜、及近年新興議題例如無線網路、無線
通訊、以及行動計算等。鑒於之前 IWCMC 數次活動的成功舉辦，此次會議亦是
吸引號召許多高品質的出版物及論文等，並使許多來自世界各地的研究學者、科
學家、工程師等藉此機會交流討論尖端之研究，本人此次參與此會儘管會期雖然
只有兩天，但議程內容豐富，實在受益良多。 
 
二、學術參訪 
此次歐洲行程中除 IWCMC2010研討會外，本人亦赴往部分歐洲國家之知名大
學進行學術參訪及交流：西班牙為 University Politecnica Catalunya，
與 Josep Solé Pareta 教授及 Albert Cabellos 教授會面；赴英國 Imperial 
College 與 Kin Leung 教授會面；並至愛丁堡 University of Edinburgh 拜
訪 Bernie Mulgrew 教授。除了學術上之交流及討論發展等，亦更為了解國
外目前電信領域近期趨勢及重點，對於雙方而言皆有不少學術上之收獲。 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
在第一部分，我們設計了一種視多重路徑為一體去傳送資料的控制機制，使得整體資料的
延遲能夠低於某給定的門檻值。第二部分，為了達到頻譜重複使用效率最佳，我們透過自
我控制的技術來管理頻譜的使用。最後，我們設計了一個擁有高速計算能力以及低能量消
耗的環保通訊處理器，來達成下世代無線通訊中動態頻譜存取的能力。  
跨層的設計在次世代行動通訊的領域是極為重要的議題，在這份報告中我們從實體層的動
態頻譜存取之實作，至網路層中滿足服務品質的傳輸機制皆做了深入的探討。其中在處理
次世代行動網路延遲的問題上，我們採取多重路徑之傳送來確保延遲是個嶄新的觀念。 
次世代行動通訊中，如何利用有限的頻率資源來解決傳輸速率的要求是非常重要的課題，
而本報告針對次世代行動通訊的設計可行性作多層的探討。我們的研究第一步先確保了動
態頻譜存取的實作可能性，接下來對於頻率資源最佳化的問題，透過可行的演算法獲得解
決，最後在傳送及輸送兩端的傳送路徑上，我們確保次世代行動通訊網路有其可行性。 
