I 
中文摘要 
由於網際網路與資訊科技的快速發展，許多組織必須面對支援分散式異質平台運算環
境之協同設計工作流程的運作問題。近年來，運用代理人技術發展工作流程管理平台以支
援分散式協同設計環境，已經成為一個發展快速的解決方案與研究重點。本研究以建構疏
鬆耦合協同設計型態之工作流程為焦點，主要目標為應用智慧型代理人技術，發展可運作
於分散式環境下之自發性協同設計工作流程管理。研究歷程分為兩個階段，第一階段是以
美國工作流程管理聯盟提出之工作流程參考模型為基礎，從本體論觀點，發展通用性工作
流程定義與系統元件運作架構，並定義各代理人的目標、行為模式與代理人間之溝通機制。
第二階段則是依據第一階段的研究成果，以 JADE 代理人平台為載具，以分散式協同設計
運作環境為設計主體，建構以代理人為基之協同研發流程平台。同時並引用 IC 產業 PCB
協同設計流程案例，驗證系統之可行性。本研究之價值，在於發展彈性工作流程建構方法
與管理機制，並以智慧型代理人技術為基礎，建立分散式環境下之協同設計運作平台，有
助於提昇協同設計工作流程應用整合整體之綜效，對產業應用發展有相當之效益。 
 
關鍵字：工作流程、代理人、協同設計、工作流程管理系統、本體論 
英文摘要 
With the rapid development of Internet and information technologies, many organizations 
are faced with managing the workflow for collaborative design on heterogeneous platforms 
linked to a distributed computing infrastructure. Recently, the use of agents for collaborative 
design in distributed environment has shown promise as a solution. In this research, we focus on 
developing the loose-coupled collaborative workflow management system with the intelligent 
agent technology in the distributed environment. There are two stages in our research. The first 
stage is to apply ontology point of view to develop a general workflow definition mechanism 
based on the workflow reference model proposed by Workflow Management Coalition, and 
define the goals, beliefs, and actions for each intelligent agent and the agent communication 
language (ACL) model between agents. For the second stage, by using JADE platform as agent 
design platform we develop and implement agent-based collaborative workflow platform 
(ACWP) based on the definition from the first stage. With the ACL message mechanism 
constructed by previous stage, the workflow elements can be applied to other heterogeneous 
workflow platforms. Finally, this research applies printed circuit board (PCB) collaborative 
design as a case study to investigate the validation of proposed ACWP system. The contribution 
of our research is to apply agent technology to develop a flexible workflow constructing 
technology and management mechanism for collaborative design in distributed environment. This 
research will move up the whole synergy of design process for collaborative design industries. 
 
Keywords: Workflow, Agent, Collaborative design, Workflow management system, Ontology 
2 
3. 協同設計要能夠支持跨平台架構，並應發展一個共通的標準，進行系統的整合，與達到
資訊的傳達及分享。 
4. 在目前的研究成果中，較缺乏疏鬆耦合式協同設計的討論。 
3.2 工作流程管理 
工作流程參考模型由美國工作流程管理聯盟所提出[9]，它認為工作流程是企業流程全
部或部份的自動化，在這個流程中，文件、資訊、作業，依據既定的程序規則，從一個參
與者傳送到另一位參與者中[9]。依執行過程，可將工作流程分為三個主要階段任務[27]：
流程定義階段提供了流程定義工具，它依據組織／角色模型等資料，進行流程元件內容的
定義；流程推進服務階段負責工作流程的制定與推動執行，外部應用系統的介面整合；工
作執行與監控階段則負責監控流程執行的狀況，並與使用者互動。為了系統整體的運作，
工作流程參考模型提供了整合於各階段中的五個主要元件，作為工作流程設計及發展之藍
本。這五個主要元件分別為：流程定義工具、工作流程推進服務、工作流程客戶端應用程
式、被呼叫的應用程式、管理及監控機制。 
美國工作流程管理聯盟提出的工作流程參考模型，已經成為研究與設計工作流程的參
考標準。在流程設計上，Kuo and Cheng [15]認為工作流程的運作必須以三個 R (角色、遶徑、
規則)為基礎。基於這三個 R 的定義，工作流程中的元件才能夠清楚地定義出來。例如，工
作流程的綱要、流程、作業、流程狀態、作業狀態、工作流程參與者，以及所有導出的案
例[7, 8]。流程知識本體(process ontology)是用以定義工作流程概念的一種方法[4]。 
美國工作流程管理聯盟的工作流程參考模型，提供了不同工作流程系統間互通的標準
介面，然而，一些問題仍然存在於現行的工作流程系統間，諸如資源衝突、工作流程執行
上的缺乏彈性、工作處理的被動性、缺乏標準語法、以及缺乏互通性[7, 17, 23, 31]。 
探討上述的幾項缺點，軟體代理人(software agent)技術提供了工作流程管理系統彈性
的、分散式的、互通性以及替代的智慧解決方案。軟體代理人技術在建構以工作流程管理
系統為基的協同設計環境上，已經被大量的使用。 
3.3 代理人理論與技術 
代理人用來表示一段具有自發性 (autonomy)、社交能力 (social ability)、反應性
(reactivity)、主動性(proactiveness)、移動性(mobility)等性質的目標導向的軟體程式[2, 19, 
28]。通常，將具有上述性質的代理人稱為智慧型代理人(intelligent agent) [5, 18, 22, 29]。 
代理人技術是目前在分散式環境下，協同產品發展主要的研究方向，為何選擇代理人
技術作為解決方案，綜合學者對代理人應用領域的研究與歸類，有下列幾點的觀察可供考
量[2, 18]： 
1. 問題應用領域中，包含了資料、處理的問題、以及責任等分散式的特性。 
2. 現存組織結構的整合性，以及必須要維持它的組成單位的自主性。 
3. 互動過程相當的複雜，例如包含協調、資訊分享、以及合作等。 
4. 問題解決方案沒辦法從開始至結束，預先地完整描述清楚。 
 
代理人溝通語言(agent communication languages, ACL)提供了代理人之間交換資訊與知
識的方法，它是在多代理人系統(multi-agent aystem, MAS)上，所有互動行為的基礎。成立
於 1996 年的智慧實體代理人基金會(Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents, FIPA)，為一
推動代理人技術標準化之非營利組織，由 IBM、Motorola、NTT、Siemens 等企業所組成，
IEEE 於 2005 年 6 月 8 日將 FIPA 納入為第 11 個標準委員會，目前已成為 IEEE Computer 
Society 的標準組織。FIPA 於 1996 年推出標準化的代理人溝通規格，處理異質性代理人間
的溝通問題，並於 1998 年將行動代理人技術項目納入標準化之作業。FIPA 的代理人溝通
規格，就是用來處理代理人溝通語言的訊息格式，它是以 KQML 為基礎制訂的，包含了代
理人溝通行為或意圖的語意描述[6]。同時，FIPA 也定義了用來與其他代理人溝通的語意語
言，每一個代理人都可以與使用相同語義表示的代理人進行溝通。FIPA 提出了代理人平台
的參考架構(reference architecture)[1]，它包含了所有用以管理代理人平台的元件，如訊息傳
4 
工作流程參考模型而設計，包含工作流程引擎(workflow engine)、流程定義工具(process 
definition tools)、管理與監控工具(administrative and monitoring tools)、以及客戶端應用(client 
application)。主控界面代理人提供使用者介面與使用者溝通，使用者登入時，主控界面代
理人便會進行使用者之身份驗證。在使用者順利通過驗證後，便取得使用者的角色權限，
然後將控制權轉移至工作流程代理人群組，自動激發對應之代理人，執行工作流程任務。
在工作流程執行時，亦可透過客戶端應用程式介面，連結客戶端應用，完成作業。主控界
面代理人肩負了整個系統執行的控制與管理。閘道代理人則扮演中介角色，負責接收由協
同設計外包公司傳送來的訊息或需求，轉送給主控界面代理人；或由主控界面代理人接收
訊息或任務，將之轉送給客戶端代理人，這樣可以避免客戶端的使用者直接連線至協同設
計公司的系統，造成可能的惡意入侵。 
 
圖 1 系統概念性架構 
工作流程本體論分析 
工作流程定義機制包含兩個部份，首先必須要定義工作流程的詮釋資料模型(metadata 
model)，其次要能建立彈性的工作流程定義機制(flexible workflow definition mechanism)。工
作流程的詮釋資料模型可用知識本體(ontology)的觀念，加以釐清工作流程物件間的運作關
係。彈性的工作流程定義機制，必須要能彈性地組合成不同的工作流程結構，以符合企業
不同的流程組合，這可應用物件導向之元件化概念來達成，進而達到物件共享之目的。 
圖 2 為本研究定義之工作流程元件知識本體(workflow component ontology)，是以
WfMC 工作流程參考模型為基礎，模型中主要的組成包含：工作流程樣板(workflow 
templates)、工作流程案例(workflow instances)、作業(tasks)、作業案例(task instances)、角色
(roles) 、規則 (rules) 、客戶端應用 (client applications) 、被呼叫之應用系統 (invoked 
applications)、訊息 (messages)、文件 (documents)、專案效能分析 (project performance 
analysis)。其中，訊息元件、文件元件、作業元件、作業案例、工作流程樣板、工作流程案
例為工作流程知識本體之核心元件。訊息元件與文件元件為基礎元件，用以定義在流程中
要傳遞的訊息內容，與需要使用的文件；作業元件是在分派原則控制下，指定了流程參與
6 
z 介面代理人(interface agent)：處理組織內與使用者互動的相關事宜，它的功能主要是管理
使用者資源，例如存取使用者的權限與待完成的工作清單等，系統中的主控界面代理人、
閘道代理人即屬於這種類型。 
z 工作流程代理人(workflow agent)：處理流程定義、控制流程案例（包含建立、致動、暫
停、終止等）、維護工作流程的控制資料與監督工作流程的執行等。系統中的系統維護代
理人、工作流程監控代理人、工作流程管理代理人、工作流程執行代理人、以及工作流
程評估代理人均為此類。 
z 資源代理人(resource agent)：處理系統外在資源。客戶端代理人是屬於資源代理人的一種。 
 
代理人行為模式定義以主控界面代理人為例。主控界面代理人為主控了整個平台的運
作，與各代理人間的溝通。使用者代理人提供了使用者登入之介面，並作為啟動其他代理
人之主要控制媒介。它會依照使用者之權限，開啟「帳號－功能」對應權限矩陣，取得使
用者之功能權限表，然後啟動對應之代理人，並傳送 “Starting” 之 ACL 訊息給工作流程代
理人群組之成員，通知其準備提供服務。 
4.2 代理人模式建構與系統模組規劃 
依據系統之初步整體架構，定義雛型系統發展目標與功能項目，可能需求之技術內涵
與可用之資源，並參考代理人導向軟體工程方法論，詳細界定協同設計流程平台，以及各
智慧代理人之行為模式，逐步建立技術整合之途徑。此程序主要乃完成各代理人模組項目
之開發，採用模組化平行進行方式執行之，再將各模組進行整合。 
系統模組流程建置 
主要是依據在第一階段完成定義之代理人行為模式，設計各代理人模組細部功能，並
界定代理人模組與角色權限之關係。代理人為基之協同工作流程平台的設計是以 Telecom 
Italia Lab 所發展之 Java Agent DEvelopment Framework (JADE)為基礎，JADE 是一個免費
之代理人平台，提供圖形化界面與模組供設計者觀察代理人間之訊息溝通與運作情形，它
並遵循 FIPA 組織所訂的代理人訊息溝通(agent communication language, ACL)國際標準，可
以減少在分散式環境下設計代理人系統的困難性。 
代理人溝通模式建置 
主要是依據各代理人元件之行為模式，設計各代理人間之 ACL 溝通訊息模式，並觀察
其 ACL 互動模式是否正確，以建立代理人自發性之行為準則，部分之溝通模式，參考圖 3。 
 
圖 3 各代理人間之溝通模式 
8 
依據第一階段完成的系統概念性架構進行雛型的研發與建置，並導入產業協同設計研發流
程，評估其有效性。目前研究發展與系統建置工作已經展開。 
六、參考文獻 
1. Bellifemine, F., Caire, G., Trucco, T., Rimassa, G. and Mungenast, R. (2005), “JADE 
Administrator’s guide/ Programmer’s guide”, available at: 
http://jade.tilab.com/doc/index.html. 
2. Boudriga N. and Obaidat, M. (2004), “Intelligent agents on the web: A review”, Computing in 
Science and Engineering, July/August, pp. 35-42. 
3. Chiang, T. A., Trappey, A. J. C., and Ku, C. C. (2006), “Using a knowledge-based intelligent 
system to support dynamic design reasoning for a collaborative design community”, 
International Advanced Manufacturing Technology, accepted. 
4. Chung, P. W. H., Cheng, L, Stader, J., Jarvis, P., Moore, J. and Macintosh, A. (2003), 
“Knowledge-based process management-an approach to handling adaptive workflow”, 
Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol. 6, pp. 149-160. 
5. Etzioni, O. and Weld, D. S. (1995), “Intelligent agents on the Internet: Fact, fiction, and 
forecast”, IEEE Expert, Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 44-49. 
6. FIPA (2002), “FIPA ACL message structure specification (SC00061)/FIPA ontology service 
specification (XC00086)”, available at: http://www.fipa.org/repository/aclspecs.html. 
7. Georgakopoulos, D., Hornick, M. and Sheth, A. (1995), “An overview of workflow 
management: From process modeling to workflow automation infrastructure”, Distributed and 
Parallel Database, Vol. 3, pp. 119-153. 
8. Gudes, E. and Tubman, A. (2002), “AutoWF-A secure web workflow system using 
autonomous objects”, Data and Knowledge Engineering, Vol. 43, pp. 1-27. 
9. Hollingsworth D. (1995), “Workflow Management Coalition: the Workflow Reference 
Model”, Workflow Management Coalition, TC00-1003. 
10. Huang, C. J. and Liao, L. M. (2007), “An intelligent agent-based collaborative workflow for 
inter-enterprise PCB product design”, The International Conference on Industrial 
Engineering and Engineering Management (IEEM2007), Singapore, December 2-5, 2007. 
(IEEE Catalog Number: 07EX1992C) 
11. Huang, C. J., Trappey, A. J. C. and Yao, Y. H. (2003), “Design and develop WfMC-based 
modularized network collaborative design system”, Journal of Chinese Institute of Industrial 
Engineer, Vol. 20, No. 4, pp. 422-434. 
12. Huang, C. J., Trappey, A. J. C., and Yao, Y. H. (2006), “Developing an agent-based workflow 
management system for collaborative product design”, Industrial Management and Data 
Systems, Vol. 106, No. 5, pp. 680-699. 
13. Huang, G. Q., Huang, J. and Mak, K. L. (2000), “Agent-based workflow management in 
collaborative product development on the Internet”, Computer-Aided Design, Vol. 32, pp. 
133-144. 
14. Korhonen, J., Pajunen, L. and Puustjarvi, J. (2003, October 13-17), “Automatic composition 
of web service workflows using a semantic agent”, Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC 
International Conference on Web Intelligence (WI’03), pp. 566-569. 
15. Kuo, G. S. and Cheng, H. Y. (1999), “On workflow and agent technologies on the 
Internet/intranet”, Global Telecommunications Conference 1999, Vol. 3, pp. 1937-1941. 
16. Kvan, T. (2000), “Collaborative design: what is it?”, Automation in Construction, Vol. 9, pp. 
409-415. 
17. Li, H. and Shi, M. (1999), “Application of agents in workflow management system”, 
APCC/OECC '99. Fifth Asia-Pacific Conference on Communications and Fourth 
Optoelectronics and Communications Conference, Vol. 2, pp. 1068-1072. 
18. Liang, W. Y. and Huang, C. C. (2002), “The Agent-based Collaboration Information System 
of Product Development,” International Journal of Information Managment, Vol. 22, pp. 
211-224. 
19. Maamar, Z. (2002), “Association of users with software agents in e-commerce”, Electronic 
Commerce Research and Applications, Vol. 1, pp. 104-112. 
10 
6. 分析產業協同設計環境，定義平台研發之關鍵績效指標。 
已完成。進度：目前已與產業專家分析關鍵績效指標。 
7. 進行系統分析與設計，定義系統功能內涵、建立資料庫架構。 
已完成。進度：相關系統分析與設計以及資料庫架構已建構。 
研究成果之學術與應用價值 
本研究成果可以做為傳統集中式工作流程設計業者系統發展的另一個研究方向，對於
目前在分散式環境下運作的產業，有直接的參考價值，可突破傳統技術應用上的思考困境。 
1. 對於學術研究之貢獻 
代理人技術之發展已有數年，然由於其理論與技術上的深度，目前在國內參與研究發展
的學者專家，尚不普及。發展代理人為基的系統，除了要有訓練良好的系統分析與設計
能力之外，更必須熟悉物件導向方法論與代理人導向軟體工程方法論，才能真正發揮智
慧代理人技術的特性與價值。本研究可作為理論與實務上的研究參考，對於國內智慧代
理人技術之學術研究，有相當之貢獻，並可延伸為後續更寬廣的其他專業領域研究。 
2. 對於國家發展與產業應用之貢獻 
協同研發流程與管理機制是現今國家發展 E 計畫之重點項目，本研究計畫配合國家發展
重點方向，並考量產業協同研發設計之分散式環境，運用智慧代理人技術設計協同研發
流程，克服產業流程整合面臨之分散式、異質平台運作環境，對於產業協同設計平台的
研發與實際的應用，提供了一個具體的解決方案，對於提升產業研發能量有直接之助益。 
是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利 
本研究第一階段目前已發表之論文清單如下： 
1. Huang, C. J. and Liao, L. M. (2007), “An intelligent agent-based collaborative workflow for 
inter-enterprise PCB product design”, The International Conference on Industrial 
Engineering and Engineering Management (IEEM2007), Singapore, December 2-5, 2007. 
(IEEE Catalog Number: 07EX1992C) 
2. Huang, C. J., Liao, L. M. and Chen, C. C. (2007), “Applying agent technology to develop 
coordinative workflow for cross organizational application”, The 8th Asia Pacific Industrial 
Engineering & Management System and 2007 Chinese Institute of Industrial Engineers 
Conference (APIEMS & CIIE Conference 2007), Ambassador Hotel, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, 
R.O.C., December 9-12, 2007. 
3. Huang, C. J., Trappey, C. V. and Ku, C. C. (2007), “A JADE-based autonomous workflow 
management system for collaborative IC design”, The 11th International Conference on 
Computer Supported Cooperative Work in Design (CSCWD2007), Melbourne, Australia, 
April 26-28, 2007. (IEEE Catalog Number: 07EX1675) 
4. Huang, C. T., Wang, W. L. and Huang, C. J. (2007), “An agent applied collaborative design 
workflow for CATV equipment”, International Conference on Automation Technology 
(Automation 2007), The Howard Plaza Hotel Taipei, Taipei, Taiwan, June 13-14, 2007. 
5. Trappey, C. V., Trappey, A. J. C., Huang, C. J., C. C. Ku (2008), “The Design of a 
JADE-Based Autonomous Workflow Management System for Collaborative SoC Design”, 
Expert Systems with Applications, doi:10.1016/j.eswa.2008.01.064 (SCI) 
6. 黃敬仁、廖麗滿 (2007)，疏鬆耦合式網路協同設計之分析與建置，勤益學報，第 25 卷，
第 1 期，第 M1-M19 頁。 
7. 黃敬仁、廖麗滿 (2008)，企業電子化之動態工作流程建構機制設計，技術學刊，第 23
卷，第 1 期。 
主要發現或其他有關價值 
代理人技術的應用是有多面向的，在本研究中除了發現代理人技術可用於分散式環境
下工作流程系統的建置，亦可以藉由代理人技術的特性，與實務上廠區資料蒐集與處理系
統相結合，典型的應用包含與無線射頻技術(RFID)的整合，可以作為資料蒐集後的自主性
應用系統設計。另一方面，亦可以藉由代理人技術溝通與協同的特性，整合排程(scheduling)
技術與演算法設計，這方面目前發表的論文與整合技術的方法尚不多見。 
An intelligent agent-based collaborative workflow for inter-enterprise PCB 
product design 
 
C.J. Huang 1, L.M. Liao 2 
1,2Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, National Chin-Yi University of Technology, Taichung, 
Taiwan, ROC 
 
 
Abstract – Currently, there is tremendous pressure to 
design and develop products in a short period of time to 
reduce time-to-market and project’s life cycle. Researchers 
often propose workflow management system as a 
mechanism to facilitate teamwork in a collaborative product 
development environment. In this paper, we develop an 
agent-based collaborative workflow platform (ACWP), in 
which a group of intelligent agents work autonomously and 
collaboratively to perform workflow tasks and access data 
from a distributed environment. By the aid of intelligent 
agents, our system can execute customized workflow tasks 
for inter-enterprise users based on their individual requests, 
and conquer the complexity of product design in distributed, 
heterogeneous platform. The application of multi-agent 
systems ACWP for collaborative workflow management is 
investigated through an inter-enterprise PCB product 
design. ACWP facilitates PCB product design and team 
interaction in a collaborative but distributed product 
development environment and moves up the whole 
performance of design process. 
 
Keywords – PCB design, workflow, agent, collaboration 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
As the fields of network and Internet technology 
mature, there will be an increased need to build 
collaborative tool that are able to facilitate teamwork in a 
distributed, complex product development environment. 
Especially in a dynamic, loosely coupled collaborative 
environment, a flexible and adaptive inter-enterprise 
workflow is more suitable for those Internet-based 
business enterprises [1]. To address the issues of product 
design in a distributed, heterogeneous environment, 
research on multi agent-based workflow system and their 
applications are on the rise. 
In this paper, a multi-agent-based collaborative 
workflow platform for collaborative design is proposed. 
Following the specifications of workflow reference model 
provided by Workflow Management Coalition (WfMC) 
[2], the system kernel supports five agents to manage the 
workflow enactment mechanism in a manner of 
autonomy and cooperation, a main function agent to 
control the flow logic, and a gateway agent as an interface 
to communicate with the client agent used by 
collaborative design partner. In order for agents to 
communicate effectively and enhance interoperability, the 
multi-agent system is developed by applying the JADE 
framework [3] as a linking to the heterogeneous design 
systems in a distributed environment. The proposed 
architecture will improves workflow management by 
delegating tasks to autonomous agents and moves up the 
whole performance of design process. 
This paper is structured as follows. Section 2 presents 
a literature review on the application of agent-based 
workflow in collaborative product design. Section 3 
discusses the proposed agent-based system platform, its 
major component and how it works. Section 4 illustrates a 
real world scenario on printed circuit board (PCB) design. 
Finally, our conclusions are drawn in Section 5. 
 
 
II. BACKGROUND 
 
Workflow is a process which delivers the right task to 
the right people at right time and optimizes the processing 
time within the operations [4, 5]. It allows information 
transparency and connectivity, together with task tracking 
and monitoring effectively and optimized. The Workflow 
Management Coalition defines workflow reference model 
as a guideline for developing workflow management 
system (WfMS) [2]. Based on the characteristics of 
structure, complexity, repetitiveness, predictability, and 
degree of automation, WfMS was classified into four 
types [5, 6, 7]. Considering on how the participants are 
working together, Kvan [8] think two types of design as a 
continuous close-coupled process, in which the 
participants work closely to realize a design, and, in fact, 
a loose-coupled process, in which each participant 
contributing what they can in different domains of 
expertise. However, if we consider a cross-organizational 
workflow on heterogeneous platform in a distributed 
environment, their logic relation for flexible and dynamic 
workflow composition is still under investigation [1]. 
Agent technologies are intended to reduce risks of 
collaborations for concurrent, complex and distributed 
product design and manufacturing [9]. Agents are capable 
of acting autonomously, cooperatively, and collectively, 
based on their mental states such as goals, beliefs, and 
actions [10]. An agent based workflow management 
system is a set of software agents that manage and 
coordinate the flow of work defined by a business process 
[4, 11]. A multi-agent work system (MAS) is defined as a 
loosely coupled network of problem solvers that work 
together to solve problems that are beyond the individual 
capabilities of each problem solver [12]. Using agents to 
perform WfMS functions is an emerging field where 
researchers are exploring the ability of agents to improve 
process integration, interoperability, and adaptability [13]. 
There are many researchers exploring the power of 
agent technology to provide flexible, distributed, and 
 1891-4244-1529-2/07/$25.00 ©2007 IEEE
The responsibility of WfEnA is to perform user’s 
assigned tasks. The users defined in ACWP can also ask 
the WfEnA to provide predefined services. When a user 
signs on to the system, the MFA wake up the WfEnA and 
the WfEnA will first display an unfinished tasks list and 
highlight the delayed tasks. If the user selects a task to 
execute, the invoked application will be activated. When 
a task is done, workflow engine will mark the task with a 
‘done’ signal and set the following task ‘active’. 
The designed goal of WfMA is to define workflow 
components (such as task, document, and message), to 
create workflow template, and to generate workflow 
instance duplicated from workflow template. 
The WfCA is designed for monitoring and control the 
status of workflow instance. WfCA tracks the real time 
status of workflow progress by querying the workflow 
instances, and set the workflow status as ‘start’, 
‘suspend’, ‘resume’, ‘abort’, and ‘query’. 
The WfEA provides functions for evaluating projects 
including user performance analysis and overall project 
performance evaluation.  
Fig. 3 describes the user class diagram and the 
relationship between user type and corresponding 
authority. When users login, the system presents different 
interfaces based on users’ role and authority. The system 
administrator has the highest authority and is permitted to 
perform all system functions. A workflow designer can 
start the WfEnA, the WfMA and the WfCA to manage 
the workflow definition and execution, such as task and 
workflow template definition, workflow instance 
creation, and workflow status monitoring. A user, e.g. 
project manager and system company’s manager/auditor, 
with authority of workflow evaluator can wake up the 
WfEnA to analyze the performance of a single user or the 
whole project. Finally, collaborative users are just 
allowed to perform the functions supported by WfEnA, 
e.g., modify personal data, show work lists, and execute 
designated task. 
 
B. Workflow Component Model 
 
During the past several years, we have been working 
on the definition of workflow ontology supporting 
collaborative product design and have developed a 
prototype on [4, 9].  
User
Workflow Evaluator System AdministratorWorkflow Designer Collaborative User
Groups of 
Collaborative 
Design House
Groups of 
Collaborative 
Designer
Groups of 
Collaborative 
Customers
Project Manager
AdministratorsCollaborative Workflow Designer
System Company's
Manager/Auditor
Interact with GA()
Wake up/Execute  
WfEnA()
Execute WfCA()
Execute WfMA()
Execute WfEnA()
Execute WfEA()
Execute WfEnA()
Execute all the 
agents/moudles
 
Fig. 3. User class diagram and corresponding authority 
 
 
Fig. 4. Workflow component model 
 
In this paper, we refine and construct WfMS elements 
based on the workflow ontology model defined in 
previous research [4, 9]. Fig. 4 shows the class diagram of 
Workflow component model. The proposed agent-based 
collaborative workflow model consists of the following 
elements as: 
y Workflow is a collection of partial or total set of tasks 
organized to accomplish some business processes.  
y Workflow template is a type of workflow definition. It 
is used to generate workflow instance. 
y Workflow instance is a duplicate of workflow template 
for execution. 
y Task is a partial or total order of operations, 
descriptions for human actions, or other tasks. Task is 
bound to particular resources that fulfill the activity. 
y Task instance is a duplicate of task for execution in 
workflow instance. 
y Message and document are all a type of resource for 
reference during the execution of tasks. 
 
The relationship between workflow components 
includes roles, transition rules, dispatching rules, invoked 
applications, and client applications. Messages and 
documents are the basic elements embedded in tasks for 
delivering information when the workflow is executing. 
A workflow template consists of multi cascaded tasks that 
are defined by applying transition rules. Fig. 5 describes 
the entity-relationship model of database for workflow 
template definition. 
 
IV. SCENARIO OF COLLABORATIVE PCB DESIGN 
AND SYSTEM IMPLEMENTTION 
 
A. Introduction to the environment of collaborative PCB 
design 
 
The challenge of process analysis is to model the 
entire process and transform it into an accurate workflow. 
 191
Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE IEEM
