 2
一、中文摘要 
此系統提出一個從監控系統中的畫面影像偵測出物件的方法，並且利用此方法找出異常
事件。首先，我們使用最小濾波器背景相減的方法找出前景物。接下來，一個新穎的以核心
為基底的追蹤方法被提出來用來追蹤所有的前景物並且更進一步的得到前景物的軌跡資訊。
此時，這個軌跡上的此物件之顏色的統計值被提出來分析兩物體接觸前與接觸後的情形，並
利用此兩個狀況的顏色統計值之差異找出攜帶物還有此攜帶物的擁有者。接下來，當系統發
現到有攜帶物出現時（也就是顏色統計值差異很大時），系統會將差異的顏色對應回原來的物
件身上找出攜帶物，並利用高斯混合模型找出完整的攜帶物。當攜帶物找出時，我們提出一
個事件分析的方法去分析此攜帶物可能的各種狀況（例如物體交換時可能是搶劫或者是遺留
物事件發生）。從前人的研究可以看出目前為止還沒有任何的監控系統從監視畫面中自動找出
類似這樣的事件分析。最後，由實驗結果可以發現我們所提出的方法應用在物件偵測與事件
分析非常的具有強健性與準確性。 
關鍵詞：異常事件分析、比例統計值、高斯混合模型、攜帶物偵測、有限狀態機 
二、英文摘要 
This system proposes a novel method to detect carried objects from videos and applies it for 
suspicious event analysis.  First of all, a background subtraction using a minimum filter is 
proposed for detecting foreground objects.  Then, a novel kernel-based tracking method is 
described for tracking each moving object and further obtaining its trajectory.   With the trajectory, 
a novel ratio histogram is then proposed for analyzing the interactions between the carried object 
and its owner.  After color re-projection, different carried objects can be accurately segmented 
from the background by taking advantages of GMMs (Gaussian mixture models). After bag 
detection, we propose an event analyzer to analyze various suspicious events using finite state 
machines.  Even though there is no prior knowledge (like shape or color) about the bag, our 
proposed method still performs well to detect suspicious events from videos.  As we know, due to 
the uncertainties of bag shape and color, there is no automatic system which can analyze various 
suspicious events (like robbery) caused by bags without any manual effects.  However, by taking 
advantages of our proposed ratio histogram, different carried bags can be well segmented from 
videos and applied for event analysis.  Experimental results have proved that the proposed method 
is robust, accurate, and powerful in carried object detection and suspicious event analysis. 
Keywords: Suspicious event detection, ratio histogram, Gaussian Mixture Models, carried bag 
detection, finite state machines. 
 4
conditions for suspicious event analysis.  In public areas, people will carry different bags or 
packages for traveling, shopping, or other private purposes.  When a suspicious event happens, the 
carried bags or packages will have various condition changes (like being transferred or left).  For 
example, in a robbery event, the carried object will be transferred from the victim to the robber.  
For a terrorism event, the carried package will be on purpose left on an airport.  To detect the 
above suspicious events, the object’s transferring conditions should be first detected.  However, 
this task is difficult since there is no prior knowledge about the object’s shape and color. T he major 
contribution of this paper is to present a novel histogram-based framework for detecting the 
conditions and then segmenting each carried object from videos no matter what shape and color it 
owns. The experimental results demonstrate the feasibility and superiority of our approach in 
suspicious event detection. 
四、研究方法 
1. Flowchart of the Proposed System 
                     
Fig. 1: (a) A walking person carried a backpack.  (b) Someone rending away the backpack. 
                       
Fig. 2: Flowchart of the proposed system to detect and analyze suspicious objects and events. 
This project proposes a system to analyze suspicious events (like robbery) from videos by 
detecting carried objects and analyzing their transferring conditions.  A scenario of the suspicious 
event is shown in Fig. 1.  Fig. 1(a) shows a man carrying a backpack on his back and walking 
along a street.  In Fig. 1(b), another person robbed his backpack and run away.  As we know, in 
the literature, there is no system proposed for automatic robbery event detection.  Fig. 2 shows the 
flowchart of the whole system.  Assume that the video is captured by a still camera.  The system 
first uses a subtraction technique to detect foreground objects from videos.  Then, a novel 
kernel-based tracking technique is proposed for tracking each foreground object. Then, a novel ratio 
histogram is proposed for finding all missed colors between two pedestrians if they have 
interactions. After detecting the missed colors, the locations of each carried object can be easily 
found using a color re-projection technique.  Furthermore, we take advantages of a set of GMMs 
to segment the object more accurately from its background.  Through checking its subsequent 
speed and direction, an event analyzer can be then designed for analyzing different suspicious 
events directly from videos. 
 6
,a lA
RatioH  and 
,l aA
RatioH between Fig. 4 (a) and (b) are shown in (c) and (d), respectively.  Then, 
the handbag area can be identified by finding the missed colors between (a) and (b) which have 
large responses in the ratio histogram 
,a lA
RatioH .  It is noticed that if the handbag is transferred 
from t aA =  to t lA = , ,| |a lARatioH  will be larger than ,| |l aARatioH , and vice versa.  Thus, using the 
power of ratio histogram, we can easily determine whether the bag is transferred from A to B or 
from B to A.  In order to analyze the robbery event more accurately, it is necessary to locate the 
position of this bag.  This paper uses a re-projection technique to highlight all possible bag 
locations.  Fig. 4 (c) shows the re-projection result of missed color.  Clearly, most of missed 
colors appear in the handbag area. 
          
           (a)                     (b)                    (c)                     (d) 
Fig. 5: Ratio Histogram.  (a) and (b): Color histograms of objects in Fig. 4(a) and (b).   
(c) and (d): Ratio Histograms. 
4. Suspicious Object Segmentation Using Gaussian Mixture Model  
This section will propose a segmentation scheme to segment desired bags from the background for 
robbery event detection. Assume ( )bagp z  denotes the probability of a pixel z belonging to a bag.  
This paper uses K Gaussian distributions to model ( )bagp z  as follows: 
                                 
1
( ) ( | ) ( )
K
bag
j
p z p z j P j
=
=∑ ,                                  (2) 
where K is the number of distribution, ( | )p z j  a single Gaussian, and ( )P j  the weight of the jth 
model. Let iα  denote the mixing weight ( )P j  which describes how much of the data belongs to 
the jth component of the GMM. Then, a parameter vector θ  containing 3K elements: 
1 1 1( ,  , ,...., ,  , )K K Kθ α μ σ α μ σ=  can be formed, where  is a d-dimensional feature vector and jσ  a 
d×d covariance matrix.  Then, the likelihood of a data nz  from θ  can be expressed by: 
 
1 1
( | ) ( |  ) ( |  , )
K K
bag n j n j j n j j
j j
P z p z p zθ α θ α μ σ
= =
= =∑ ∑ ,              (3) 
where 11( | , ) exp( ( ) ( ))
2
T
n j j n j j n jp z z zμ σ μ σ μ−= − − − . Suppose our training data is 
1{ ,..., ,  ..., }n NZ z z z= .   The likelihood of the parameter θ  given the data Z can be defined as  
                                  
1
( | ) ( |  ) ( | )
N
n
n
p Z p z L Zθ θ θ
=
= =∏ .                  (4) 
 8
    
                                        (a)       (b)       (c) 
Fig. 7: Result of handbag segmentation. 
  
Fig. 8: Result of robbery event detection when the robbery ran very quickly and 
robed the bag suddenly. 
The quick movement will blur the video quality and lead to the failure of background 
subtraction.  However, our proposed method still works very well to detect the desired bag. Fig.8 
shows another case of robbery event detection. 
五、計畫成果自評 
本計畫研究內容與原計畫相符約95%，未來將結合視訊監控行為分析技術，作有效的公共開
放公間異常事件分析。目前的結果具有學術價值（已投至 IEEE Transactions on Circuits and 
Systems for Video Technology 並已經 Accepted ）以及應用價值(例如安全監控系統)。另一篇
論文 “Boosted String Representation and its Application to Video Surveillance” 已被 Pattern 
Recognition 接受. 
 
參考文獻 
 
[1] R. T. Collins, A. J. Lipton, and T. Kanade, “Introduction to the special section on video 
surveillance,” IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 22, no. 8, pp. 
745-746, 2000. 
[2] H. Zhong, J. Shi, and M. Visontai, “Detecting unusual activity in video,” Proc. of IEEE Conf. 
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, vol. 2, pp.819-826, June 2004. 
[3] T. B. Moeslund and E. Granum, “A survey of computer vision-based human motion capture,” 
Computer Vision and Image Understanding, vol. 81, no. 3, pp. 231-268, Mar. 2001. 
[4] R. Cucchiara, C. Grana, A. Prati, and R. Vezzani, “Probabilities posture classification for 
human-behavior analysis,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics-Part A: 
System and Humans, vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 42-54, Jan. 2005. 
[5] I. Haritaoglu, D. Harwood, and L.S. Davis, “W4: real-time surveillance of people and their 
activities,” IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 22, no. 8, pp. 
809-830, 2000.  
[6] I. Haritaoglu, R. Cutler, D. Harwood, and L. Davis, “Backpack: detection of people carrying 
 10
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
█ 可申請專利  █ 可技術移轉                                      日期：97 年 10 月 20 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：智慧型視訊監控系統之研究與開發 3/3 
計畫主持人： 謝君偉        
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－155－021 學門領域：圖形識別 
技術/創作名稱 利用物件顏色統計值比例差異作異常事件分析 
發明人/創作人 謝君偉 
中文：此系統提出一個從監控系統中的畫面影像偵測出物件的方
法，利用物件間的顏色統計值差異找出攜帶物還有此攜帶物的擁有
者。接下來，當系統發現到有攜帶物出現時（也就是顏色統計值差
異很大時），系統會將差異的顏色對應回原來的物件身上找出攜帶
物，並利用高斯混合模型找出完整的攜帶物。當攜帶物找出時，可
利用事件分析方法去分析此攜帶物可能的各種狀況（例如物體交換
時可能是搶劫或者是遺留物事件發生）。 
技術說明 英文： A novel technique is proposed for detecting carried objects 
from videos and suspicious event analysis.  It uses a novel ratio 
histogram for analyzing the interactions between the carried object and 
its owner.  After color re-projection, different carried objects can be 
accurately segmented from the background by taking advantages of 
GMMs (Gaussian mixture models). After bag detection, an event 
analyzer is developed to analyze various suspicious events directly 
from videos.  Even though there is no prior knowledge (like shape or 
color) about the bag, the analyzer still performs well to detect
suspicious events from videos.  
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
視訊監控、異常事件分析 
技術特點 
利用物件間的顏色統計值差異找出攜帶物還有此攜帶物的擁有
者，進而分析可能的異常事件 
推廣及運用的價值 
可用在視訊監控產業，從視訊資訊中，可即時及穩定地作異常事件
分析如搶劫事件 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
附件二 
表 Y04 
Infrastructures; 5. On the Power and Rate Control in IEEE 802.11 WLANs -- A Game 
Theoretical Approach, 最後由作者 Lin Chen（第五篇論文）所獲得，可見中國人還是很
厲害的。 
   此會議共有 550 篇的論文投稿，分別來自 32 個不同國家的投稿，為了維持此會議的
論文水準，接受率為 29％，在論文議程上的安排，邀請四位國際知名的學者, Dr. Robert 
E. Kahn, Dr. Vijay K. Bhargava, Dr. Aggelos K. Katsaggelos, and Dr. Cheng-Zhong Xu 做
keynote speaker，詳細地介紹他們的研究成果，題目分別為: Managing Digital Objects on 
the Internet, Research Challenges in Cognitive Radio Networks, Challenges and Opportunities 
in Video Transmission, and Quality Control: A Key to Stress-Resilient Internet Services，這四
位教授，針對目前最新的網路傳輸與壓縮技術，不僅深入簡出地介紹他們的理論技術，
並廣泛地分析比較各種方法更增添不少重要成果，讓聽者獲益良多。此會議並推薦了 25
篇重要的會議論文，建議與會者聆聽，列舉四篇重要的論文如下：(1) Use of Dependency 
Information for Memory Optimizations in Distributed Streaming Applications, (2) 
Provisioning Link Layer Proportional Service Differentiation in Wireless Ad Hoc Networks 
with MIMO links (3) Localized and Configurable Topology Control in Lossy Wireless Sensor 
Networks, (4) A Caching-Based Approach to Routing in Delay-Tolerant Networks，都是跟網
路相關非常重要的論文，讓人有非常多的收穫！ 
二、與會心得 
 
   本人參加此次的國際影像處理研討會，會中本人發表一篇利用比率統計圖作可疑物
件偵測與搶劫事件分析的論文，發表後獲得許多人的興趣與討論，許多人並詢問網頁上
是否有實驗的視訊資料，可以做實驗，本人並有幸擔任此 section 的議程主席，。除了
宣讀論文之外，我並與參加此次會議的各種 oral 與 poster 的議程，並與各國學者或研究
員彼此互相討論，除可得知這方面最新技術的研發與進展，並可了解目前各國在影像處
理技術上的研發情況與進展，因這會議是在美國舉辦的，大部分的學者來自美國，歐洲
國家的學者也來了不少、例如英國、法國、德國、義大利、比利時等國家，亞洲的學者
也不少，例如大陸、日本、新加坡等等，台灣參加的學者也很多，例如中正大學的柳金
章校長、清大的許秋婷教授與林嘉文教授、中山大學的葉佳宏教授、東華大學的陳美娟
教授等等。在研討會中與這些學者討論與交換意見，深深的覺得在網路通訊這個領域，
研究重點越來越偏向 video coding 與多媒體的整合，包括 H.264 codec 的探討、在無限
環境下如何傳輸 video 等議題，而且今年很多研究都在探討利用統計的方式來做無線網
路的品質分析，不過台灣的學生似乎在統計上面的訓練不大夠，這是台灣學者需要重視
Suspicious Object Detection and Robbery Event Analysis  
1Chi-Hung Chuang, 2Jun-Wei Hsieh*, and 1Kao-Chin Fan 
1Dep. of Computer Engineering, National Central University, 2Dep. of Electrical Engineering, Yuan Ze University, 
Jung-Da Rd., Chung-Li 320, Taiwan 135 Yuan-Tung Road, Chung-Li 320, Taiwan 
 *shieh@saturn.yzu.edu.tw 
Abstract 
This paper proposes a novel method to detect 
suspicious objects from videos for robbery event analysis.  
First of all, a background subtraction using a minimum 
filter is used for detecting foreground objects from videos.  
Then, a novel kernel-based tracking method is proposed for 
tracking each moving object and obtaining its trajectory.   
Then, we propose a novel robbery event analysis system to 
analyze suspicious object transferring conditions between 
any two persons.  Usually, when a robbery event happens, 
there should some suspicious object transferring conditions 
happening between the robbery and the victim.   Since 
there is no prior knowledge about the object’s property, it is 
difficult to automatically analyze the conditions without 
any manual efforts.  To tackle this problem, a novel ratio 
histogram is then proposed for finding suspicious objects 
and then accurately analyzing their transferring conditions.  
After color re-projection, we use Gaussian mixture models 
to model the suspicious object’s visual properties so that it 
can be very accurately segmented from videos.  After 
analyzing its subsequent speed, different robbery events 
can be then effectively detected from videos.  Experiment 
results have proved that the proposed method is robust, 
accurate, and powerful in robbery event detection. 
1. Introduction 
Detection of suspicious objects in video sequences is an 
important task in video surveillance.  It can be used for 
security monitoring, crime detection, and anti-terrorist 
surveillance.  The challenge of this task comes from the 
gab between the high-level concepts of semantic events 
and machine-understandable low-level features extracted 
from videos.  Since human is the most concerned target 
than other objects, most of approaches proposed for linking 
the gap almost focus on human behavior (or action) 
analysis.  For example, Oliver et al. [12] developed a 
visual surveillance system that models and recognizes 
human behavior using HMMs (Hidden Markov Models). 
Rosales and Sclaroff [13] proposed a trajectory-based 
recognition system to detect pedestrians in outdoor 
environments and recognize their activities from multiple 
views using a mixture of Gaussian classifiers.  Meanwhile, 
some approaches extract human postures or body parts 
(such as the head, hands, torso, or feet) for analyzing and 
interpreting human behaviors or activities like fighting, 
conversation, or handshaking.   For example, Park and 
Aggarwal [3] used a dynamic Bayesian network to 
segment a body into different parts and then applied 
HMMs to analyze various human interactions between 
multiple persons. In [5], Niu et al. proposed a 
trajectory-based representation scheme to distinguish 
different interactions among a group of people. 
In addition to individual human behaviors, dangerous 
accidents are sometimes caused by abandoned objects like 
a package bomb.  In the literature, there have been several 
approaches proposed for abandoned object detection.  For 
example, Stringa [7] used a key frame extraction technique 
to locate moving objects and then recognized suspicious 
objects from background according to the object’s position, 
moment, and shape features.  In [8], Foresti et al. used a 
long-term change detection algorithm to detect abandoned 
objects and then classified video sequences into four 
dangerous events.  In addition to abandoned objects, 
another challenging work is to analyze the interactions 
between object and human.  In [1]-[2], Haritaoglu et al. 
presented a silhouette-based approach to analyze the 
symmetries of body shape for determining if a person is 
carrying an object.  However, object contour is easily 
vulnerable to the effects of noise and will become unstable 
for carrying object analysis.  Therefore, in what follows, a 
robust and effective method will be proposed to analyze 
the interactions between human and objects. 
 This paper proposes a novel approach to detect 
suspicious objects and their transferring conditions for 
detecting abnormal events (like robbery) directly from 
videos.  In public areas (like airports, train stations, or bus 
terminals), people will carry different bags or packages for 
traveling, shopping, or other private purposes.  When a 
robbery event happens, their carried bags or packages will 
be unwillingly transferred to another person.  As we know, 
in the literature, there is no system proposed for 
automatically detecting the robbery event directly from 
videos. The major contribution of this paper is to propose 
such an automatic system for robbery event analysis. Fig. 1 
shows the flowchart of the whole system to detect 
abnormal events (like robbery). First of all, a novel 
background substation method is applied to detect each 
foreground object from the background.  Then, a novel 
kernel-based tracking scheme is proposed for tracking each 
moving object and obtaining its trajectory.  After that, a 
novel ratio histogram is then proposed for finding all 
possible missed colors between the victim and the robbery.  
After color re-projection, the locations of each suspicious 
object can be found. Then, we take advantages of a set of 
Gaussian mixture models to model the suspicious object’s 
visual properties.  Based on the modeling process, each 
suspicious object can be very accurately segmented from 
videos.  Through cross-checking their subsequent speeds, 
different robbery events can be then effectively detected 
from videos.  The experiment results demonstrate the 
transferring conditions. Assume that ( )
t aA
H i=  and 
( )
t lA
H i=  are the color histograms of t aA =  and t lA = , 
respectively. Then, the ratio histograms of A can be 
defined: 
,
( )
( )
( ) 1
a
a l
l
A
A
A
H i
RatioH i
H i
= +  and ,
( )
( )
( ) 1
l
l a
a
A
A
A
H i
RatioH i
H i
= + .(7) 
In addition, the power of a ratio histogram is defined by 
| | ( )
i
RatioH RatioH i=∑ . 
  
(a)                      (b) 
Fig. 4: Ratio Histogram.  (a) Color histograms of 
objects in Fig. 3(a) and (b).   (b) Ratio Histograms. 
According to the ratio histogram, the missed colors 
between t aA =  and t lA =  can be easily found.  For 
example, Fig. 3(a) and (b) show a person A carrying with 
or without a handbag, respectively.  Their corresponding 
color histograms are shown in Fig. 4 (a).  The ratio 
histograms 
,a lA
RatioH  and 
,l aA
RatioH between Fig. 3 (a) 
and (b) are shown in Fig. 4 (b).  Then, the handbag area 
can be identified by finding the missed colors between (a) 
and (b) which have large responses in the ratio histogram 
,a lA
RatioH .  It is noticed that if the handbag is transferred 
from t aA =  to t lA = , ,| |a lARatioH  will be larger than 
,
| |
l aA
RatioH , and vice versa.  Thus, using the power of 
ratio histogram, we can easily determine whether the bag is 
transferred from A to B or from B to A.  In order to 
analyze the robbery event more accurately, it is necessary 
to locate the position of this bag.  This paper uses a 
re-projection technique to highlight all possible bag 
locations.  Fig. 3 (c) shows the re-projection result of 
missed color.  Clearly, most of missed colors appear in the 
handbag area. 
4. Suspicious Object Segmentation Using 
Gaussian Mixture Model  
This section will propose a segmentation scheme to 
segment desired bags from the background for robbery 
event detection. Assume ( )bagp z  denotes the probability 
of a pixel z belonging to a bag.  This paper uses K 
Gaussian distributions to model ( )bagp z  as follows: 
               
1
( ) ( | ) ( )
K
bag
j
p z p z j P j
=
= ∑ , (8) 
where K is the number of distribution, ( | )p z j  a single 
Gaussian, and ( )P j  the weight of the jth model. Let iα  
denote the mixing weight ( )P j  which describes how 
much of the data belongs to the jth component of the GMM. 
Then, a parameter vector θ  containing 3K elements: 
1 1 1( ,  , ,...., ,  , )K K Kθ α μ σ α μ σ=  can be formed, where jμ  
is a d-dimensional feature vector and jσ  a d×d 
covariance matrix.  Then, the likelihood of a data nz  
from θ  can be expressed by: 
1 1
( | ) ( |  ) ( |  , )
K K
bag n j n j j n j j
j j
P z p z p zθ α θ α μ σ
= =
= =∑ ∑ ,  (9) 
where 11( | , ) exp( ( ) ( ))
2
T
n j j n j j n jp z z zμ σ μ σ μ−= − − − . 
Suppose our training data is 1{ ,..., ,  ..., }n NZ z z z= .   The 
likelihood of the parameter θ given the data Z can be 
defined as  
           
1
( | ) ( |  ) ( | )
N
n
n
p Z p z L Zθ θ θ
=
= =∏ .   (10) 
We can find θ  by maximizing the log( ( | )L Zθ ), i.e., 
  *
1
arg max log ( | ) arg max log ( | )
N
n
n
L Z p zθ θθ θ θ== = ∑ .(11) 
Actually, the solution of Eq.(11) is iteratively found. 
Assume that kθ , kjμ , and kjσ  denote the parameters θ , 
jμ , and jσ  estimated at the kth iteration, respectively.  
Let 
( | , )
( , , )
( | )
k k
j j n j jk
n k
n
p z
q j z
p z
α μ σθ θ= . Using the expectation 
maximization (EM) algorithm, the (k+1)th estimate of the 
parameters jμ  and jσ  can be obtained by 
1 1
1
( , , )
( , , )
N
k
n n
k n
j N
k
n
n
q j z z
q j z
θ
μ
θ
+ =
=
=
∑
∑
 & 
2
1 1
1
|( - )| ( , , )
( , , )
N
k k
n j n
k n
j N
k
n
n
z q j z
q j z
μ θ
σ
θ
+ =
=
=
∑
∑
. 
In addition, the (k+1)th estimate of jα  is calculate by 
        1
1
( | , )1
( | )
k k kN
j j n j jk
j k
n n
p z
N p z
α μ σα θ
+
=
= ∑ . (12) 
Fig. 4(d) shows the result of bag segmentation using GMM.  
Clearly, the bag region is detected and segmented very 
accurately.  After bag segmentation, if the persons have 
significant speed changes, we can classify the transferring 
condition as a robbery event. 
5. Experiment Results 
In order to analyze the performance of our proposed 
method, various still images and videos captured under 
different weather conditions and lighting conditions were 
used. The first experiment demonstrated the performance 
of our bag extraction algorithm.  Fig. 5 shows the case 
when the bag has similar color to clothes.  Even though 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          96 年  10 月 8  日 
報告人姓名  謝君偉 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
 元智大學 電機系 
 副教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
 2007 年 10 月 1 日至 3日 
 希臘 
本會核定
補助文號
 NSC 96－2221－E－155－021 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2007 年國際多媒體與信號處理會議 
 (英文) 2007 International Workshop on Multimedia Signal Processing
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 利用格化樣形比對作人數計數 
 (英文) Grid-based Template Matching for People Counting 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
本次研討會在希臘的克利特島舉行，由於此研討會主要是從事多媒體與信號處理學者務
必參加的盛會，因此匯集了全世界的知名研究學者。為了討論目前多媒體與信號處理研
究最熱門的問題與應用，此大會安排了六個 Section 的議程，分別為 
Section I: Speech & Interface to MM 
Section II: Multimedia communication 
Section III: Image Video 
Section IV: MM search & Security 
Section V: MM Emerging Applications 
 
此五個議程討論了目前多媒體與訊號處理領域，各種不同的最新應用與理論，吸引了許
多知名優秀的學者參與討論，由這些討論，更讓我得知現在全世界的未來的研究趨勢及
課題，或許有些課題是自己所熟知的，但更多卻是自己所欠缺的，不論是熟知或新知，
不同的環境造就不同的人，亦產生不同的想法和動機，這些都能對自己的未來研究提供
不少助益！ 
   此會議並選出五篇最佳論文的候選者，作者與題目分別為：  1. Theodoros 
Giannakopoulos, 題目為"A multi-class audio classification method with respect to violent 
content in movies using bayesian networks", 2.  Ngai-Man Cheung, 題目為"Flexible video 
decoding: a distributed source coding approach", 3. Denis Kubasov, 題目為 "Optimal 
表 Y04 
能吸收到不少新知，包括了各種新的技術、觀念或是應用等等，都讓我受益良多，由參
加這次會議，發覺許多優秀與有深度的論文都會用到許多的統計數學，但對於統計或數
學的駕馭力，多數的台灣研究生似乎都很欠缺，尤其是現補習教育的盛行，許多研究生
能考上好學校，是因從大二或大三就開始補習，對同樣的習題與科目一直磨練，雖然研
究所考試能獲得高分，但不代表真的有對應的能力來解決問題，只能說當時的運氣及記
憶力比較好，創造能力並無跟著增長，有點令人感嘆，希望國內教育能多加強數學與統
計知訓練。 
   另一方面，目前台灣學生，由於有國防役與股票可以領，越來越少人願意留學，這
以後可能造成台灣人才的斷層，反之隔岸的大陸，留學幾乎是大陸學子的第一優先選
擇，因此，在可預見的將來，有很大的可能在影像處理這個領域，越來越多的大陸的學
生冒出頭來，不論是量或質都可能超越台灣，實令人警惕與擔心。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
    攜帶回一片論文光碟片，可供研讀與發展新技術。 
 
五、其它 
 
 
Fig. 1: Flowchart of the proposed system. 
2. Preprocessing 
Before counting people, the moving objects should be first 
extracted from the background.  This paper uses several 
preprocessing techniques to extract desired moving objects. 
2.1 Background Construction Using Gaussian Mixture 
Models 
Given a surveillance video, extracting foreground objects 
from background is an important step in video 
surveillance-related applications.  A standard method of 
adaptive background modeling is running average of 
successive images over time, in which a created 
approximated background is similar to the current static 
scene except where motion occurs.  This method is not 
robust to scenes with many moving objects particularly 
when they move slowly.  Therefore, rather than explicitly 
estimating the values of all the pixels, we model a pixel as 
a mixture of Gaussians instead. 
  In [3], the probability that an observed pixel has 
intensity value tx  at time t is estimated by K Gaussian 
distributions defined as follows: 
        ( )
( ) ( )11, 2
1/ 2
1
( )
2
T
t l l t l
K x xl t
t
l
P x e
μ μω
π
−− − ∑ −
=
= ∑ ,  
where ,l tω  is the weight of the thl  distribution of pixel 
tx ’s mixture model, lμ  its mean, and l∑  its covariance 
matrix.  To update the model, each new pixel is checked if 
a match is found against the existing Gaussians.  To adjust 
the weight of each distribution, ,l tω  is updated by 
            , , 1 ,(1 ) ( )l t l t l tMω α ω α−= − + ,      (1) 
where α  is the learning rate which controls the speed of 
the learning, and M a Boolean value indicating whether a 
match is found or not. For those pixels that are far away 
from the background will be recognized as foreground. 
2.2 Background Subtraction Using a Minimum Filter 
Assume ( )kI p and ( )kB p  are intensities of the thk  
frame and background of a pixel p, respectively.  Then, 
the difference image ( )kD p  between ( )kI p and ( )kB p  
can be defined as follows: 
        
0,  if ( ) ( ) ;
( )
( ),  otherwise,
k k d
k
k
I p B p T
D p
I p
− ≤⎧= ⎨⎩
 (2) 
where dT  is a predefined threshold. However, this 
technique is not stable if the camera has small vibrations.  
The perturbations will lead to many subtraction errors 
found along edges of object boundary.  In what follows, 
this paper proposes a simple but effective method to 
remove all above subtraction errors so that different 
moving object can be more robustly detected.  For a point 
p in kB , due to the camera vibrations, its position in kI  
will have some shift and lead to a large subtraction error.  
Assume that this shift is less than a window w w× .  
Then, we can calculate ( )kD p  by subtracting ( )kI p  not 
only from the intensity ( )kB p  but also from the 
neighborhoods within p in kB .  Thus, Eq.(2) can be 
rewritten using the form 
           
0,  if ( ) ;
( )
( ),  otherwise,
k d
k
k
d p T
D p
I p
≤⎧= ⎨⎩    (3) 
where 
( )
( ) min ( ) ( )k k kq Ne pd p I p B q∈= −  and ( )Ne p  is the 
neighborhood of p defined within a window w w× . It is 
noticed that the subtraction errors found in Eq.(2) happen 
only when the subtraction ( ) ( )k kI p B p−  is larger.  If it 
is small, ( )kd p  is not necessarily calculated.  Based on 
this idea, Eq.(3) can be more efficiently performed using 
the following form: 
     
0,  if ( ) ( ) ;
( )
( ) ( ( ) ),  otherwise,
k k d
k
k k d
I p B p T
D p
I p d p Tδ
− ≤⎧= ⎨ −⎩
   (4) 
where ( )xδ  is a step function whose value is 1 if x > 0 
and 0 otherwise. 
2.3 Shadow Elimination 
After background subtraction, different moving objects can 
be well extracted from the background.  However, the 
existence of shadow will affect the accuracy of people 
counting.  Therefore, we adopted a deterministic approach 
[8] for reducing the effect of shadow into a minimum.  
Let ( )hkI p , ( )
s
kI p , and ( )
v
kI p  denote the hue, saturation, 
and value channels of a pixel p in the kth input frame I 
from the HSV color space, respectively.  Similarly, 
( )khB p , ( )skB p , and ( )
v
kB p  denote the hue, saturation, 
and value channels of p in the background.  The decision 
rule for determining whether p is a shadow is defined as 
follows: 
( )
True,    if 1 ( ) / ( ) ,  ( ) ( ) , 
            and ( ) ( ) ,
False,  ,
v v h h
k k k k H
s s
k k S
B p I p R I p B p
S p I p B p
otherwise
τ
τ
⎧ < < − <⎪⎪= − <⎨⎪⎪⎩
(5) 
where R and Hτ  are set to 3, , and Sτ  < 0. 
3. People Counting Using Template Matching 
Once different moving objects have been extracted, this 
section will present a novel edge-based method to verify 
and count them if they are really pedestrians. 
3.1 Distance Transform 
  
      (a)           (b) 
Fig. 2: Result of distance transform. 
To verify an object, this paper will use a distance transform 
