2 
 
中文摘要 
機器學習在解決企業、工業、決策、以及科學研究的各種問題有卓越的貢獻。在這個
計畫中，我企圖解決機器學習應用於模式分類時所必須面對的大型的問題。三個型態的大
型問題將在這計畫中予以考慮：大數量的類別，大數量的訓練樣本，以及大數量的特徵向
量維度。我提出以分解資料的方法來解決大型分類的問題。這些方法的效果將以下面的應
用來測試：光學文字識別，文字以及生醫資料的資訊處理。它們的效果也將在理論的層次
上評估；也就是說，我們將以時間複雜度與空間複雜度的降低程度作為評估的標準，並且
以漸進性的效性來證明它們的價值，也就是說，當訓練樣本的樹量遞增的時候，這些方法
的測試錯誤會趨向於所有分類器所能達到的最低水平。 
關鍵詞：調適性多特徵子集，調適性原型學習，漸進有效性，特徵選取，大型問題，
機器學習，支持向量機，樹分解 
英文摘要 
Machine learning has been proved very useful in solving various problems that arise from 
business, industry, decision making, and scientific research. In this project, I attempt to solve the 
large-scale problems that arise in applying machine learning methods for pattern classification 
purposes. Three types of largeness will be deal with: the large number of class types, the large 
number of training samples, and the large dimension of feature vectors. I propose to use da-
ta-decomposition methods to solve these problems. The effectiveness of the proposed methods 
will be tested on the following applications: optical recognition of characters, information 
processing of textual data, and information processing of biomedical data. The effectiveness of 
the proposed methods will also be analyzed on the theoretical level; that is, they will be eva-
luated in terms of the reduction in time and space complexity, and justified in terms of their 
asymptotic efficiency, namely, as the number of training samples increased, their testing errors 
are expected to reach the minimum level of all possible classifiers. 
Keywords: adaptive multiple feature subset, adaptive prototype learning, asymptotic effi-
ciency, feature selection, large-scale problem, machine learning, support vector machine, tree 
decomposition 
報告內容 
In the past three years, I focused on machine learning research and its applications to docu-
ment image analysis, optical character recognition, and facial attractiveness. The works include 
new algorithms for multiclass pattern classification, a new method to speed up the training of 
non-linear SVMs, a new method for feature ranking and feature selection, a new method for bi-
narizing camera-produced document images. I now describe them as follows. 
Decision Tree support vector machine (DTSVM) 
SVM has proven to be a powerful method for pattern classification. However, the 
4 
 
rithms, the k-nearest neighbor rule, and support vector machines (SVMs) in terms of average test 
accuracy. We also proved that, under certain conditions, the APL algorithms are asymptotic effi-
cient, in the sense that, as the number of training samples approaches infinity, the test accuracy 
rate of APL tends towards the minimum level that can be achieved by any possible classifiers. 
Moreover, the conditions required to ensure the consistency of APL algorithms are weaker than 
those needed to ensure the consistency of SVMs. The paper that describes APL is now published 
in the prestigious Journal of Machine Learning Research. 
We applied APL to the recognition of Chinese handwritten characters, video captions, and 
fragmentary characters (Chang et al., 2005; Chang, 2008, Chou et al., 2006; Chou et al., 2007). 
Another application of the prototype learning is to predict the attractiveness of human faces with 
a very successful and paradigm-shifting result (Chang and Chou, 2009). 
A Bi-Prototype Theory on Facial Attractiveness 
Applying our prototype learning method and feature selection method, we developed a very 
successful theory of facial attractiveness. In a paper published in Neural Computation (Chang et 
al, 2009), we showed that the attractiveness of human faces can be predicted with a high degree 
of accuracy if we represent them as feature vectors and compute their relative distances from two 
prototypes, namely, the average of attractive faces and the average of unattractive faces. Moreo-
ver, the degree of attractiveness, defined in terms of the relative distance, exhibits a high 
degree of correlation with the average rating scores given by human assessors. These find-
ings motivate a bi-prototype theory that relates facial attractiveness to the averages of attractive 
and unattractive faces, rather than the average of all faces, as previously hypothesized by some 
researchers 
A Binarization Method with Learning-Built Rules for Document Images 
Produced by Cameras 
We proposed a novel binarization method for document images produced by cameras (Chou 
et al., 2010). Such images often have varying degrees of brightness and require more careful 
treatment than merely applying a statistical method to obtain a threshold value. To resolve the 
problem, the proposed method divides an image into several regions and decides how to binarize 
each region. The decision rules are derived from a learning process that takes training images as 
input. Tests on images produced under normal and inadequate illumination conditions show that 
our method yields better visual quality than three global binarization methods and four locally 
adaptive binarization methods. In terms of OCR performance, which is taken as another metric 
for comparison, our method always achieved above 96% accuracy rates, while the compared 
methods achieved 50%-91%. The paper that documents the above-described binarization is pub-
lished in Patter Recognition. 
Adaptive Multiple Feature Subset (AMFES) for Ranking and Selecting 
Features 
The presence of a large number of redundant features can hurt learning machines badly. This 
6 
 
hybrid solution for multiclass pattern recognition, Pattern Recognition, vol. 39, no. 4, pp. 
624-634, 2006. (SCI, EI) 
C.-H. Chou, C.-Y. Guo, and F. Chang
C.-H. Chou, W.-H. Lin, and 
, Recognition of fragmented characters using multiple fea-
ture-subset classifiers, Inter. Conf. Document Analysis and Recognition, Brazil, 2007. (EI) 
F. Chang
Y.-H. Liu, C.-C. Lin, W.-H. Lin, and 
, A binarization method with learning-built rules for docu-
ment images produced by cameras, Pattern Recognition, vol. 43, no. 4, pp. 1518-1530, 2010. 
(SCI , EI) 
F. Chang
R.-E. Fan, P.-H. Chen, and C.-J. Lin. Working set selection using second order information for 
training SVM. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 6:1889-1918, 2005. 
, Accelerating feature-vector matching using mul-
tiple-tree and sub-vector methods, Pattern Recognition, vol. 40, no. 9, pp. 2392-2399, 2007. 
(SCI, EI) 
R.-E. Fan, K.-W. Chang, C.-J. Hsieh, X.-R. Wang, and C.-J. Lin. LIBLINEAR: A library for large 
linear classification. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 9:1871-1874, 2008. 
I. Guyon, J. Weston, S. Barnhill, and V. Vapnik, Gene selection for cancer classification using 
support vector machines, Machine Learning, 46(1-3): 389-422, 2002. 
C.-C. Wu, C.-H. Chou, and F. Chang
計畫成果自評 
, A machine-learning approach for analyzing document 
layout structures with two reading orders, Pattern Recognition, vol. 41, pp. 3200-3213, 2008. 
(SCI, EI) 
In this project, we have developed three new machine-learning methods: 1) adaptive pro-
totype learning (APL) algorithms, 2) decision-tree SVM (DTSVM) for speeding up SVMs, and 
3) adaptive multiple feature subset (AMFES) method for feature selection. The goal of our ap-
proaches is to scale up machine learning capability so as to solve large-size problems in various 
applications, where the size can be the number of class labels, the number of training samples, 
or the number of features (in opposition to the number of key features). The three proposed me-
thods perform extremely well in the experiments we conducted. We now summarize our find-
ings as follows.  
First, APL can be applied to solving multi-class and multi-label classification problems, 
where the number of class types is beyond thousands or tens of thousands and the data points 
can bear more than one label. The test accuracy of APL is found to be comparable to that of 
SVM.  
Second, DTSVM is a method that speeds up SVM training by a factor of thousands, and 
yet achieves comparable test accuracy to SVM. It can also be used for speeding up APL training 
with quite large speedup factors. 
Third, AMFES is a new method for finding key features from data sets. This method is 
combined with SVM and is shown to outperform RFE in finding key features and thereby im-
proving test accuracy. Moreover, AMFES is much faster than RFE, therefore is more useful in 
practical applications. 
8 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   
□期中進度報告 
 
解決機器學習的大型計算問題 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC   96-2221-E-001-008-MY3 
執行期間：   2008年  8月 1日至 2010年 7月 31日 
 
執行機構及系所：中央研究院資訊研究所 
 
計畫主持人：張復 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查
詢 
 
中   華   民   國九十九年 八月 一 日 
附件一 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 解決機器學習的大型計算問題
計畫主持人: 張復
計畫編號: 96-2221-E-001-008-MY3 學門領域: 人工智慧
無研發成果推廣資料
件數 1 1 100% 件  技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 2 2 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 4 4 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
Two toolkits are available for free download from the following websites.
http://ocrwks11.iis.sinica.edu.tw/~dar/Download/WebPages/DTSVM.htm 
http://ocrwks11.iis.sinica.edu.tw/~dar/Download/WebPages/AMFES.htm 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
