were evenly assigned to the two feedback conditions at random. After familiarizing 
two warm-up examples, the subject entered the learning session by undergoing the 
three levels of media treatment, and receiving the feedback treatment associated with 
the assigned group. After the learning session, the subject performed a 
paper-and-pencil test in which six multiple-choice questions and four blank-filling 
questions were administered to test rote memorization and learning transfer 
respectively.  
 
Results 
The ANOVA results indicated that for recall accuracy, the main effects of age and 
media were significant and so was the age x media interaction (se Figure 1). Further 
analysis revealed that regardless of the media treatments, recall accuracy for older 
adults was lower than that for the young counterpart. When the media effect was 
examined at each age level, we found that animation resulted in the highest recall 
accuracy for the older subject, followed by static graphs and pure text in significantly 
descending order. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Interactive pattern for recall accuracy 
 
With respect to learning transfer, the interactions of age x media and media x 
feedback were significant. For the age x media interaction, the young subject 
outperformed the older subject across the three media conditions. When examining 
the media effect for each age condition, we found that only the difference between 
pure text and static graphs for the older group did not contribute to the significance of 
the interaction. As for the media x feedback interaction, immediate feedback enabled 
wider transfer but the effect occurred only when animation was presented. If the 
results were examined at each feedback level, only the paired differences between 
pure text and static graphs, and static graphs and animation were significant. The two 
panels of Figure 2 show the age x media and feedback x media interactions for 
learning transfer, respectively. 
 
 
 
age
m ed ia
Static picturesP ure textAnimation
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
YoungOlder
1. 0
0. 8
0. 6
0. 4
0. 2
age
Older
Young
media
Static pictures
Animation
Pure text
Interaction Plot (fi tted means) for recal l  accuracy
