中文摘要：
本計畫針對三維形貌量測系統－Calibration-based projected fringe profilometry－作一系列的
深入探討、設計與製作。本年度執行的內容，主要是建立一套以機器視覺及條紋投影技術，
作為量測物體三維形貌的光學系統，並且，設計與製作一繞射元件，將此繞射元件應用在
Calibration-based projected fringe profilometry 的投影系統上，以增加其適用彈性。主要優點
在於：1. 可避免光學透鏡組造成的像差，如 distortion、astigmatism、field curvature 等，對
於超大尺寸的形貌量測(如大尺寸液晶顯示器件的平整度量測)，提供極佳的便利性；2. 此
繞射元件的體積甚小(<500μm3)，搭配 fiber bundle 及小型的 image sensor 可形成一完整的
光學微機電形貌量測系統，適用於生醫檢測如內視鏡等 3D 檢測；3. 相較於目前各式的形
貌量測系統，包括傳統的 holographic interferometry，此計畫的量測裝置更加輕便、簡單，
而且避免了像差因素，故而降低了電腦演算及系統校正成本；4. 搭配本人提出的
dual-frequency、multi-frequency projected fringes 投影系統，可從事外觀複雜或深度變化有
甚大落差的 3D 形狀量測；5. 由於光源的同調性甚佳，故投影系統有甚大的景深(depth of
focus)，待測物的縱深量測範圍亦因此增加；6. 由於影像擷取系統只需要擷取一次資料
(one-shot measurement)，因此可進行動態物體的三維形貌量測。
關鍵詞：條紋投影技術，弦波光柵，三維形貌量測系統，繞射元件
英文摘要：
A projected fringe profilometry using a diffraction element for finding the absolute shape of an
object with large depth discontinuities is proposed. The projection system is simplified by using a
diffraction element to produce a two-frequency fringe pattern instead of the typical fringe
projection scheme. The proposed method offers following major advantages: (1) a very compact
design for the measurement system, (2) very low fringe distortion (even for a large field of view),
(3) only one phase measurement needed for operation, (4) easiness for calibration, (5) robust
performance to analyze surfaces with lots of discontinuities, especially for automatic phase
unwrapping, and (6) a large depth of focus in the projection system. The advantages make it
possible for measurements of dynamic objects inside a tiny body.
Keywords: projected fringe profilometry, 3D imaging and vision, 3D profile measurement,
diffraction element
one frequency is five times larger than the other. This diffracted pattern is then projected onto the
inspected object. Phase of the fringe is obtained from a different viewpoint. The low frequency is
more tolerant to physical discontinuities, whereas the higher one can refine the result. Therefore,
for inspection of surfaces with large depth discontinuities, phase jumps of the high frequency
while phase unwrapping can be corrected with reference to the low-frequency phases. The
unwrapped high-frequency phases are then demodulated to retrieve the 3D information
Since the projection system is simplified by using a diffraction element instead of a projection
lens or interference components, as shown in Fig. 1, the overall system is compact for specific
detections in many severe circumstances, such as 3D inspections for dynamic objects inside a
body. The field of view of this measurement system could be wider than 60°, depending on
requirement of the working distance and measurement scale of the tested object. The high spatial
coherence from the diffraction grating makes it possible to generate a large depth-of-focus
projection. The depth measuring range has been proved to be as large as 4m.
Fig. 1. Projected fringe profilometry using a diffraction element. The projected
pattern is a diffracted wave formed by launching a reading wave from a
single-mode fiber into this diffraction element. A CCD camera obtains the
deformed fringes from another viewpoint.
2. Fabrication of the diffraction component for fringe projection
To produce the two-frequency projection using a diffraction element, a standard holographic
setup is proposed, as shown in Fig. 2. The setup is mainly composed of (1) a laser with good
temporal coherence, (2) a convergent reference wave, (3) a convergent object wave, and (4) a
hologram, which was used as a diffraction element. An objective lens forms the object wave
Fig. 4. Schematic diagram of a projected fringe profilometry using a diffracted
two-frequency pattern by launching a conjugate reading beam to the hologram.
As shown in Fig. 4, when a conjugate reading beam from a single-mode fiber is launched into
the hologram, a diffracted two-frequency pattern is reconstructed on which the virtual image is
formed, at distance di + f away from the hologram. Since the diameter of the core of the
single-mode fiber is in micron-scale, an almost perfect point source is obtained. This makes it
possible to reconstruct an image with a large depth of focus at distance di + f away from the
hologram.
3. Depth of focus of the projection system
The depth of focus is the amount by which the image may be shifted longitudinally with respect
to some reference plane before the acceptable blur is introduced [25]. The objective lens used for
a hologram forms a virtual image at the same side of the two-frequency pattern. When a
conjugated reading beam is launched to the hologram, a diffraction pattern is reconstructed, with
the same the depth of focus as the virtual image. Thus, the depth of focus of the diffraction
pattern is mainly raised by the objective lens. The total depth of focus of the virtual image is
given by the sum of the geometrical [25] and wave [26] optical depths of fields.
The depth of focus in geometric optics for the objective lens can be mathematically expressed
as [25]
D
d
BDOF ig  , (3)
where D is the diameter of the effective aperture on the objective lens, B is the acceptable amount
of circle of confusion, and di is the distance between the image and objective lens.
The effective aperture D can be determined using the mathematical expression of the
Huygens-Fresnel principle [27], as given by
-10.0 -7.5 -5.0 -2.5 0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0
0.125
0.250
0.375
0.500
0.625
0.750
0.875
1.000
x (mm)
No
rm
al
iz
ed
in
te
ns
it
y
Fig. 6. Intensity distribution when illuminating a single-fringe to the lens. The
distance between pattern and lens is ro1 =99mm. The spot size of the distribution
on the lens is approximately 1.2mm. It implies that the effective aperture is
approximately 1.2mm.
The diffraction-limited depth of focus is expressed as [25, 26]
21 NA
kDOFw
 , (6)
where NA is the numerical aperture, k1 is a constant, and is the wavelength of illuminating
light. Since the distance di was 9900mm, and the effective aperture D for one selected fringe was
in the millimeter order, the equivalent NA was very small. Diffraction effect was not a dominant
factor.
4. Phase-extraction and unwrapping
Phases of the two-frequency pattern are evaluated by Fourier transform method [3, 24]. The
intensity distribution with distorted fringes of a two-frequency pattern obtained by the CCD
sensor array can be represented as
           yxyxlyxyxhyxayxI lh ,cos,,cos,,,   , (7)
where a(x, y) is the intensity bias at location (x, y) in the CCD detection plane, h(x, y) and l(x, y)
are the fringe modulation, and h andl are absolute phases of the high frequency and low
frequency, respectively. Note that the high frequencyh is P (P = 3, 4,5 …)times larger than the
low frequencyl, even though they are distorted.
Compute the one-dimensional Fourier transform of Eq. (7) and obtain the Fourier spectra.
With a suitable band-pass filter, the spectra are filtered to pick up the fundamental components.
By applying the inverse Fourier transform to the fundamental components, two complex signals
can be recovered,
It has been shown that a point (x, y, z) on the tested object can be expressed as [9]












n
n
n
o
o
cz
bzby
azax

1
1
, (13)
where a1, ao, b1, and bo can be carried out by obtaining a set of depth values and corresponding
transverse positions. The coefficient cn of the polynomial can be determined with a sufficient data
set of phase values and their corresponding depth values.
Fig. 7. Coordinate systems in a non-telecentric projected fringe measurement
system.
6. Experiments
6.1 3D shape measurements
An experimental setup was constructed to test the projection system, as shown in Fig. 3 and Fig.
4. In the experiment, a He-Ne laser with an output power of 10mW at 632.8nm was used. A film
hologram was employed as the diffraction component. Its diffraction efficiency was measured
approximately 20 %. The focal length of the objective lens used to form an image of the
two-frequency pattern was 100mm. In this two-frequency pattern, the period of the low-frequency
fringes and the high-frequency ones was 960m and 192m, respectively. A fan blade attached
with a cubic object was selected as the testing sample. Large step discontinuities occurred
between the fan blade and the cubic object. In the image acquisition system, a monochrome
sensor array with 10241024 pixels at 12-bit pixel resolution was used to record the distorted
fringes.
Shown in Fig. 8 is the recorded image in which the diffracted two-frequency pattern was
projected on this testing object. Figure 9(a) and (b) are the evaluated phase maps of the high
Figure 10(a) gives the uncorrected absolute phase distribution. Since the frequency of the lower
one was low enough that no discontinuity was larger than its equivalent wavelength, the phase
could be unwrapped directly. Figure 10(b) shows the unwrapped phase map of the low frequency.
With Eq. (12), the corrected absolute phase map of the high frequency was identified, as given in
Fig. 11. The absolute 3D shape of the testing sample could be found out from Eq. (13). Figure 12
shows the reconstructed shape.
(a) (b)
Fig. 10. Unwrapped phase map from Fig. 7: (a) the higher frequency, and (b) the
lower frequency. Phases were mapped to the corresponding colors: the brighter
one represented the larger phase value.
6.2 Error analysis
Errors of the system were mainly raised from the uncertainty of phase evaluation using Fourier
transform method, and speckle noise of the diffraction pattern.
Since the frequency of the lower one was designed not sensitive to the depth discontinuities,
the spectra of the modulated signal and the DC term might be overlapped in the frequency
domain [3, 28]. Aliasing will influence the precision of Fourier transform method, providing a
wrong reference for fringe-order correction. By choosing a proper fringe period, it was still
permissive for jump correction even though the errors were involved.
Coherent noise is inevitably introduced by the laser source, which is harmful to the
measurement accuracy. To investigate errors caused by speckle noise, a 180mm180mm standard
flat plate with roughness approximately 2m was used as the testing object. Figure 13 shows the
3D shape measured by our proposed method. Since speckle noise was introduced, the systematic
accuracy of the profile was approximately 7m.
250 375 500 625 750 875 1000
23.99625
23.99750
23.99875
24.00000
24.00125
24.00250
24.00375
Pixel
De
pt
h
pr
of
il
e
(m
m)
Fig. 13. One-line surface profile of the flat plate.
8. Conclusion
In summary, we investigated a unique projected fringe profilometry using a diffraction grating. A
two-frequency projection was employed, and therefore it was robust to analyze surfaces with lots
of discontinuities. A method to fabricate this diffraction element has been presented. Depth of
focus in the projection system was very large, in the order of meter-scale. Thus, the depth’s
measuring range could be very large. The field of view of this measurement system could be
wider than 60°, depending on requirement of the working distance and measurement scale of the
tested object. Since only one phase measurement was needed for operation, it was practical for
3D measurements of dynamic objects. The projection system was simplified by using a
diffraction element instead of a projection lens or interference components. Thus, the overall
system was very compact. The experimental result has demonstrated that the accuracy of the
measure is approximately 7m. The advantages make it possible for specific applications in many
sever circumstances, such as 3D inspections for dynamic objects inside a small body.
17.K. Creath, “Step height measurement using two-wavelength phase-shifting
interferometry,” Appl. Opt. 26, 2810-2816 (1987).
18. H. Zhao, W. Chen, and Y. Tan, “Phase-unwrapping algorithm for the measurement of
three-dimensional object shapes,”Appl. Opt. 33, 4497-4500 (1994).
19. D. R. Burton and M. J. Lalor,“Multichannel Fourier fringe analysis as an aid to automatic
phase unwrapping,”Appl. Opt. 33, 2939-2948 (1994)
20. Y. Hao, Y. Zhao, and D. Li,“Multifrequency grating projection profilometry based on the
nonlinear excess fraction method,”Appl. Opt. 38, 4106-4110 (1999).
21. E. B. Li, X. Peng, J. Xi, J. F. Chicharo, J. Q. Yao, and D.W. Zhang,“Multi-frequency and
multiple phase-shift sinusoidal fringe projection for 3D profilometry,”Opt. Express 13,
1561-1569 (2005).
22. M. Takeda, Q. Gu, M. Kinoshita, H. Takai, and Y. Takahashi, “Frequency-multiplex
Fourier-transform profilomery: a single-shot three-dimensional shape measurement of
objects with large height discontinuities and/or surface isolations,”Appl. Opt. 36,
5347-5354 (1997).
23. J. L. Li, H. J. Su, and X. Y. Su, “Two-frequency grating used in phase-measuring
profilometry,”Appl. Opt. 36, 277-280 (1997).
24. W. H. Su and H.Liu, “Calibration-based two-frequency projected fringe profilometry: a
robust, accurate, and single-shot measurement for objects with large depth
discontinuities,” Opt. Express 14, 9178-9187 (2006).
25. Warren J. Smith, Modern Optical Engineering (McGraw-Hill, 1991), Chap. 6.
26. Kenneth R. Spring and Michael W. Dividson,“Depth of field and Depth of focus,” Basic 
microscopic concepts,
http://www.microscopyu.com/articles/formulas/formulasfielddepth.html.
27. Joseph W. Goodman, Introduction to Fourier Optics (McGraw-Hill, 1996), Chap. 4.
28. Leland B. Jackson, Digital Filters and Signal Processing (Toppan, 1996), Chap. 6.
29. Wei-Hung Su, Wei-Chia Su, and Wei-Jen Chen, “Projected fringe profilometry using a
holographic technique for objects with large depth discontinuities,” submitedto Opt.
Express.
30. Wei-Hung Su, Chia-Jeng Huang, and Chi-Chang Chen, “Projected fringe profilometry
using a supercontinum light illumination for micro-scale measurements,” submitedto Opt.
Express.
31. Wei-Chia Su, Wei-Hung Su, and Hung-Jei Kao, “Correlator-aided alignment of phase key
in encrypted holographic storage systems,” submitedto Opt. Communications.
32. Wei-Hung Su, Wei-Jen Chen, Jun-Shan Huang, and Cho-Yo Kuo,“Projected fringe
profilometry using a hologram for objects with large depth discontinuities”Proceedings of
SPIE 6314 (2006).
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
可申請專利 可技術移轉 日期：95 年 10 月 27 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：體積全像應用於三維形貌量測之研究
計畫主持人：蘇威宏
計畫編號：NSC 94－2215－E－110－016－ 學門領域：光電
技術/創作名稱 利用體積全像術進行三維形貌量測之條紋投影輪廓儀
發明人/創作人 蘇威宏
中文：提出一套利用全像技術所設計的條紋投影系統，來進行待測
物三維形貌的量測。此投影系統的體積甚小(<500μm3)，搭配 fiber
bundle 及小型的 image sensor 可形成一完整的光學微機電形貌量測
系統，適用於生醫檢測如內視鏡等 3D 檢測。所提出的新型投影系
統，用來進行待測物三維形貌的量測時，不僅可以克服量測大物體
時所受景深限制的影響，並且，構造簡單的投影裝置，也增加了未
來在市場上的可行性。
技術說明
英文：A projected fringe profilometry using a diffraction element for
finding the absolute shape of an object with large depth discontinuities
is proposed. The projection system is simplified by using a diffraction
element to produce a two-frequency fringe pattern instead of the
typical fringe projection scheme. The proposed method offers
following major advantages: (1) a very compact design for the
measurement system, (2) very low fringe distortion (even for a large
field of view), (3) only one phase measurement needed for operation,
(4) easiness for calibration, (5) robust performance to analyze surfaces
with lots of discontinuities, especially for automatic phase unwrapping,
and (6) a large depth of focus in the projection system. The advantages
make it possible for measurements of dynamic objects inside a tiny
body.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
1. 國防工業如飛彈、魚雷、機翼與螺旋槳等形貌之鑑定，醫學工
程如生物細胞，電子產業如 PC 板面，機械製造如齒輪形狀探
測等，皆需要對待測物之三維形貌作精密的檢定;
2. 對所有以 projected fringes 為基礎的形貌量測工具都可適用。
技術特點
1. 可避免光學透鏡組造成的像差，如 distortion、astigmatism、field
curvature 等，對於超大尺寸的形貌量測(如大尺寸液晶顯示器件
的平整度量測)，提供極佳的便利性；
2. 此繞射元件的體積甚小(<500μm3)，搭配 fiber bundle 及小型的
image sensor 可形成一完整的光學微機電形貌量測系統，適用於
生醫檢測如內視鏡等 3D 檢測；
3. 相較於目前各式的形貌量測系統，包括傳統的 holographic
