國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 █無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 █無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
在學術研究方面，我們以簡潔的模型，呈現了社交網路的兩大重要特徵：(1)每個人的資
訊渴求/處理能力在某種程度上決定了他們扮演的社交角色，(2)每個人的交友情形通常是
動態的變化，而不是靜止不動的，所以整個社交網路雖然傾向於成長，但是人們並不會一
直和很多人來往，而是會理性的選擇適宜的交友圈。此模型不僅獲得國際期刊的認可(詳
見後附論文之參考資料[1]），在資訊應用、資源分享與甚至社會經濟學的研究上，更有重
要的意義。 
 
在技術創新上，我們使用賽局理論來分析每個理性的使用者的行為，而得到整個社交網路
的特性，此種研究方法可說是相當新穎的應用，此種理論與實際相輔相成的研究方法，也
是各研究領域所認可的。基於我們的模型，可以更進一步的去發展使用者導向的應用服
務，在技術服務上，可以用此種分析來構思軟硬體介面的新功能，在商業應用上，則可以
依照交友圈的變化性與資訊處理能力有限的特性，設計商業機制來獲取利潤。因此，我們
的研究可以說是社交網路探索的重要基石，更讓我們在社交網路的研究上處於領先地位。
我們的成果也將以報告的方式完整的呈現給產學界，期望能激盪出研究與研發的火花，產
生更多突破性、有創見的研究成果。 
 
Abstract
Due to people’s eagerness for interactions with others, online social network has been one of the most popular Internet services
in the world. However, the most frustrating element is the overwhelming information users facing while using these applications
on social networks. In this work, we investigate the effect of overloaded information on users’ behaviors in terms of the network
formation of online social networks. In our model, the information is defined as the total number of friends the users’ friends
have. For each user, there exists certain optimal information amount to maximize his utility function. We consider two cases here:
the cost to send a friend request is either zero or greater than zero. We discover that when all users are myopic and the cost is
greater than zero, the online social network is unlikely to grow. We also exemplify several equilibrium network examples and
discuss their properties. The simulation results verify our theoretical analysis1.
Index Terms
Social Network, Game Theory, System Stability
I. INTRODUCTION
Online social networking websites, like Facebook and MySpace, the worlds’ two largest social networks with more than a
billion users, have become one of the most popular Internet services that people access. The staggering growth of these social
networks shows that people value convenience and immediacy in their interactions within their social communities. In light
of this, these online social networking websites also develop application platforms for third-party social networking games.
The worldwide distribution of these applications is the result from the increasing diversity of people’s online social activities
in their communities. In addition, since these applications are designed to favor users with more friends involved in the same
application, users are prompted to add more friends for the successive profits. As a result, these applications increase the
popularity of these social networking sites.
To help users discover more friends, the social networking sites, Facebook for instance, sending users friend suggestions
based on the users’ information. Intuitively, most of these suggestions come from the users’ mutual friends. And now, online
social networks automatically suggest new application invites or send out friend suggestions based on their friends’ online
social activities. For example, if your friends on Facebook post on their friends’ Wall, the post will also appear in the streams
(News Feed) of any user connected to the publisher and the receivers. This feature opens up opportunities for users to connect
with new people and social communities, introducing people to involve in a multitude of online social networks.
However, a common difficulty people facing is the overwhelming information that comes in the way while using these social
networking sites. Users are bombarded with the overloaded information when they have too many friends on the site. As these
online social networks not only send out information about the user’s friends, but also display information about their friends’
friends. In response to this, the users begin to block unnecessary information sources, rendering these automatic connecting
applications the main reason to cause information explosion and users’ discontent at these social networking websites.
A. Related Work
Jackson et al. [2] proposes a dynamic model for network formation, in which social networks can be built through random
choices or mutual friends. This model characterizes social network, such as small average distance, clustering and fat tails. A
player’s well-being also relies on his neighboring players’ behavior. Galeotti et al. [3] build a framework to analyze interaction
among users with incomplete information. By applying a game structure, the authors study how payoffs and actions interact.
1This paper [1] has been accepted as an invited paper in ISABEL 2010.
formation problem since game theory as it is a set of mathematical tools used to model and analyze interactive decision
processes.
A. Nash Game Model
There are three components in a typical game model: players, actions, and utility functions. A player has various actions
in a predefined action space to choose from. After all players choose their actions simultaneously, the outcome of the game
is then decided, and their utilities are denoted by the utility functions with the outcome as input. To maximize his utility, the
player applies a strategy to choose specific actions under the predefined conditions.
In our network formation game, the player set is defined as the user set N , and the actions the friend requests they send
{gi,j}. For the action spaces, according to our early observations, users in online social networks are unlikely to perceive the
existence of all users within the same network. Thus, the network usually offers its users some friend suggestions, which are
mainly based on the users’s original friend set. In addition, the user may be friends with their friends’s friends while browsing
their friends’ pages. In light of this characteristic, we define the action as {gi,j|j ∈
⋃
k∈Fi
Fk, j 6= i} ∈ 0, 1
|
⋃
k∈Fi
Fk|
. Thus in
the network formation game, users’ actions are simply categorized into two: sending friend requests to their friends’ friends,
and removing their friends. Then, given a network G, we define each user’s utility function as:
ui(G) = αiIi(G)−
βi
2
Ii(G)
2 − c
∑
j∈N
gi,j ,
where Ii(G) is the information collected by the user i. Given a low enough c, there exists a optimal Ii∗ that maximize ui.
We formulate the network formation game as a repeated game. There is a given initial network G0, which is a symmetric
matrix since in the beginning there should have a initial network with friend relations on the online social network. In an
online social network, users access the network at different time and with different frequency. Thus, they seldom choose their
strategies simultaneously. To include this characteristic into our game model, we only allow one randomly selected user with
the ability to change his strategy each round in the network formation game. When user i is selected, he can adjust his friend
request matrix {gi,j |∀j ∈
⋃
Fk, ∀k ∈ Fi}. That is, a user can choose to send requests to his friends of friends, remove the
requests, or delete the links to his friends. In our model, we assume users are myopic, that is, if user i is selected in round l,
he adopts the strategy to maximize his current utility uli.
IV. NASH EQUILIBRIUM IN PROPOSED GAME
Note that one’s applied strategy may influence others’ utilities as well as their strategies, which results the instability of
the system. Thus in the stable state, all players should have chosen their best response to other players’ currently applied
strategies. If we ask one player at a time to choose his strategy with others’ remaining unchanged, he will stick to the current
strategy because changing his strategy decreases or makes no difference to his utility. This forms a Nash Equilibrium (NE).
In the network formation game, each user in the Nash Equilibrium will not cut current link and try to build more link with
the friends of his current friends. We give a mathematically definition of Nash Equilibrium as follows:
Definition 1 (Nash Equilibrium in Network Formation Game): Given a user set N and utility functions ui(G), i ∈ N , a
network G∗ = {g∗i,j} is a Nash Equilibrium network in the network formation game if and only if ∀i ∈ N , ∀Gi = {gi,j} ∈
0, 1
|
⋃
k∈Fi
Fk|
,
ui(G
∗) ≥ ui(Gi ∪G
∗
−i),
some interesting findings are (a) a special network we called unit network is a Nash Equilibrium. In this network, a user is
added to the ring network to provide extra information to other users, and which thereby results in a Nash Equilibrium network.
Similarly, (b) a star network with 6 branches is a Nash Equilibrium network, and (c) we find out several unit network can
be integrated into a complex-ring network, which still offers each user 6 units of information. In such a network, there might
be users with tons of friends, but they do not connect with each other directly: instead, they connect to each other as using
friends of friend relations.
B. Effect of Cost on Friend Request
After showing some example of Nash Equilibrium, we realize that the Nash Equilibrium of the network formation game is
not unique. In addition, the network structure of Nash Equilibrium network is significantly affected by the parameters of the
online social network. We have showed that the effect of I∗ in the previous section. In this section, we focus on the effect of
an important factor in the network: the cost of friend request c.
C. Friend Request with Positive Cost
First we discuss the case the the cost of friend request is positive. We argue that all user will never send a friend request to
other users when users are myopic. Intuitively, if a user i chooses to send a request to user j, he will spends a positive cost
c, but since he is sending a request, that means gj,i = 0, and there will not be any beneficial at this round since li,j = 0. So,
it will only gives a negative impact on user i’s utility. We state this conclusion with the following lemmas and propositions:
Lemma 1 (Passive Friend Request): Assume all users are myopic and friend request cost is positive, when a user is selected
to change his strategy, he will not send friend request unless another user has sent one.
Proof: Assume users are myopic, they will focus on maximizing their current utility. Since a request sending has positive
cost and the request receiver will not response the request in the same round unless the receiver has sent the friend request
before, it will bring negative cost to current utility. Therefore, for a myopic user, his best strategy is just cut unnecessary
connection rather than send any request.
Proposition 1 (No New Request During the Game): If all users are myopic and the friend request cost is positive, no user
will send request in each round of the game.
Proof: Given the initial graph G0 is a symmetric matrix, no friend request is sent at the beginning of the game. Thus,
according to Lemma 1, no new friend request will be sent in any round of the game.
Lemma 2 (Link request graph in Nash Equilibrium ): If G∗ is a Nash Equilibrium, The link request graph of Nash Equi-
librium with positive friend request cost c is equal to the connection graph, which is a symmetric matrix. That is,
∀i, j ∈ N, g∗i,j = g
∗
j,i = 1.
Proof: We use proof by contradiction to prove this proposition. If G∗ is a Nash Equilibrium and there exists some
g∗i,j ≥ g
∗
j,i. Without losing generality, we assume g∗i,j = 1. Since g∗j,i = 0, li,j = 0. Thus, if user i choose to set g′i,j = 0,
the information he derived Ii(G′) will be equal to Ii(G∗) since the link is not changed. But the total friend request cost
C′i = c
∑
j∈N g
′
i,j is smaller than the original one c
∑
j∈N g
∗
i,j = C
′
i + c. Thus, ui(G′) > ui(G∗), and G∗ is not a Nash
Equilibrium. Since we reach a contradiction, we also complete the proof.
Proposition 2 (Existing of Nash Equilibrium): If all users are myopic and the friend request cost is positive, at least one
Nash Equilibrium G∗ exists.
0 200 400 600 800 1000
−20000
−15000
−10000
−5000
0
5000
Simulation round
Av
ar
ag
e 
Ut
ilit
y
Utility Change
0 200 400 600 800 1000
0
2
4
6
8
10
Simulation round
Av
ar
ag
e 
Li
nk
 N
um
be
r
Link Number Change
Fig. 3. No Request Sent During Simulation
the complexity of social network is greatly reduced. As we can see that through Facebook, it is costless to know somebody so
that higher information utilization can be achieved. Third, comparing with traditional network, costless connection lets people
tend to make friends with more people, so the social network becomes thriving. And fourth, even if connection cost is close to
zero, people will not unlimitedly make friends. Due to the factor of information preference and information processing price,
people’s personal social networks will have some characteristics as mentioned before. That is, even if a user has a time-variant
personal social network, the friend-making pattern will not change a lot. Finally, in a costless social network, number of friends
is not so important, what important is the sum of friends and friends of friends. In other words, friends selection is based on
how much information friends provide. So the absolute number of friends is relatively not so important.
V. SIMULATION RESULTS
In the simulation, we have 10 nodes in this social network. We assume all nodes are homogeneous with α = 10, β = 5,
and link cost c = 0. Moreover, in the beginning, we assume each nodes has links with all other nine nodes. That is, the initial
graph G0 is a complete graph.
We simulate two possible best strategy profiles: No Request Sent and All Nodes are Requested. In both strategy profiles, when
a user is chosen to choose his strategy, he first maintains the best combination of the friend link by deleting the unnecessary
links and make requests to some of users already sent back requests. For those users do not send requests to himself, No
Request Sent means the user will not send any request, and All Nodes are Requested means the users will send requests
to all nodes. Although both are the best responses of the myopic user, the simulation results, shown in Figure 3 and 4, are
very different. We observed that under No Request Sent profile, the network reaches the Nash Equilibrium very fast. When
the strategy profile is All Nodes are Requested, the network never reaches a stable state, and all users are suffered from the
information explosion.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this work, we introduce a simple model to study the problem of information explosion. The way of making friends such
as Facebook, in which you can have the information of friends of your friends with costless price, can more efficiently utilize
  
出國會議報告 
 
 
 
ACM MobiCom 2010 會議報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
服務機關：台灣大學 電機系 
姓名職稱：魏宏宇 助理教授 
派赴國家：美國 芝加哥  
出國期間：2010/09/19~09/25 
報告日期：2010/9/30 
經費來源：國科會 
 
Later on, several interesting technical sessions are held. PHY Layer Techniques session 
includes several Physical layer and cross-layer research papers that addressed interaction 
between physical layer design and upper layer protocols. Some of them are implemented in 
software programmable platform (e.g. GNU radio and USRP). Wireless Spectrum and 
Co-Existence sessions include papers on emerging wireless techniques such as femtocell and 
opportunistic radio discovery through dual-mode Zigbee/WiFi devices. Systems and 
Technologies session include two research papers and two Challenge papers. The research 
papers studied opportunistic wireless network discovery and energy efficient The Challenge 
papers address some future directions for wireless networking which includes free-space optic 
communications and physical RF ID sensing. SIGMOBILE meeting is held after the technical 
sessions. SIGMOBILE issues (such as financial issue, publication issue, conference 
organization issues) are discussed.  
 
In September 22nd morning, papers on emerging techniques and applications are presented. 
Notably, a visible light communication system built with LCD-camera pair is discussed by 
MIT researcher. This type of new system shows great research potential. Afterwards, several 
localization papers with both theoretical and experimental values are discussed. In September 
22nd afternoon, system papers that address directional antenna issues are presented. After these 
technical sessions, demo session and poster session are held in two different rooms. We present 
our poster on “A Cognitive Relay Protocol: Design, Implementation, and Evaluation and 
Evaluation.” Several researchers and graduate students have closely interactions with us during 
the poster session.  
 
In September 23rd morning, several practical system and protocol papers are presented. 
One interesting paper by NEC Labs America is about virtualization of WiMAX service. They 
have implemented the system with WiMAX base stations and multiple WiMAX user clients. 
As interference detection and management is a critical issue in wireless network, three 
interesting papers are presented in the Interference Detection and Management session. The 
Sybot paper applies robot to automatically survey wireless network deployment sites. In 
September 23rd afternoon, several measurement based papers are presented. Those 
measurement based papers provide insightful observation on the interaction and performance 
issues in practical wireless networking deployment. In the final session, optimization based 
papers are presented. Mobile networking optimization issues are investigated here.  
 
三、與會心得 
 
ACM MobiCom and ACM MobiHoc are the top conferences in mobile networking area. 
Many researchers take this event very serious. They submit their best research results to this 
conference. In addition, many well-established researchers and rising stars will attend these 
conferences. This conference trip is very valuable experience for me to discuss and interact 
with top-notch researchers in this field. As we presented our research results in ACM 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/05/05
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫三：人本通訊與社會網路之賽局理論分析與合作激勵機制設計(1/2)
計畫主持人: 魏宏宇
計畫編號: 99-2219-E-002-026- 學門領域: 應用服務(網通國家型)
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
