 2
三、研究目的 
In this research, we propose a robust background model construction and maintenance 
mechanism. The mechanism includes three phases. In the first phase, an initial background model 
is constructed from unfiltered video streams. This background model can be used to detect 
foreground objects in each frame of video by applying background model subtraction techniques. 
In order to tolerate the gradual change of environment, the initial background model must be 
adjusted in the second phase. The adjusted background model can adapt to the environment 
change and be used to detect moving objects with keeping the detection accuracy. When the 
environment change is violent and the adjustment of a background model is only a slow action 
cannot save a critical situation. Hence, in the third phase of the proposed mechanism, a new 
background model are built and then used to replace the original one as quickly as possible. This 
rapid replacement of background models can avoid missing foreground objects for a long period. 
 
四、文獻探討 
A video surveillance system analyzes a sequence of frame images in a video and extracts 
specific foreground objects. These extracted objected are then recognized and understood their 
behavior. The related researches of video surveillance systems are paid close attention. Many 
survey papers [1-4] are published in famous journals. Video surveillance techniques can be 
roughly divided into the following topics: moving object detection, tracking, object type 
classification, human motion analysis, behavior understanding. Moving object detection is the 
basest research among these topics. 
There are three kinds of approaches, background subtraction [5, 6], temporal differencing 
[7], and optical flow analysis [8], to separate foreground and background. The background 
subtraction approach is the most popular one. It can detect the differences of a current frame 
image and a predefined background model. However, the unique background model is insensitive 
to environment changes and would make the extraction result of foreground objects 
unsatisfactory. Hence, it is significant to construct and maintain a flexible background model for 
the application of video surveillance using background subtraction techniques. 
五、研究方法 
The system diagram of this proposed background model maintenance scheme is illustrated as 
Fig. 1. The initial background model in this system is constructed from unfiltered frames of a 
prerecorded video. All frame images are extracted from the video and the pixels of each image in 
the same position are collected in the same set, as shown in Fig. 2. The gray-level distribution of 
all pixels in the same set is calculated and the mode value with the most accumulated counts is 
selected to be a central position m. The near range [m-w, m+w] from the central position m in the 
distribution is used to calculate the mean and the standard deviation. Figure 3(a) illustrates 
several frame images extracted a prerecorded video and the initial background model contracted 
from these frame image is shown in Fig. 3(b). The background subtraction technique is used to 
detect all difference pixels between a current frame image and the background model in this 
system. Figure 4 explains the resultant difference image using the background subtraction 
approach.  
 4
nd model and the adjusted 
back
d, swinging, and moving, according to 
opriate. In the 
prop
reduce the ill effects caused by foreground objects, only the invariant parts of each frame are used 
to modify the background model. This modified background model is more adapted to the 
environment changes than the original one. Figure 7(a) illustrates a moving human is in the 
process of pasting up a poster on the wall. The original backgrou
ground model are shown in Fig. 7(b) and Fig. 7(c), respectively. 
If the environment change is violent, the above adjustment procedure is too slow to react to 
this kind of change. In this case, it is necessary to replace the background model speedily. Each 
frame could generate a difference image after performing the background subtraction. For those 
successive frames in a video, a superimposed image could be produced by overlapping all 
generated difference images. The environment change types can be identified by analyzing the 
overlapping degree of the superimposed image. The initial superimposed image is set as a whole 
white gray-level image. All pixels in different positions of the difference image are then 
overlapped upon the initial superimposed image, as shown in Fig. 8(d). If a specific position in 
continuous difference images occurs difference, the gray-level value in this position of 
superimposed image will gradually become darker, as illustrated in Fig. 9. The frame 
characteristic could be classified into three categories, fixe
the analysis of superimposed image and difference image. 
 
The frame characteristic could be classified into three categories, fixed, swinging, and 
moving, according to the analysis of superimposed image and difference image. According to the 
analysis of the superimposed image and the difference image, object changes in each frame are 
classified into three types, fixed, swing, and moving. In order to solve two different environment 
changes caused by fixed objects or swinging objects, a complete background model replacement 
method is proposed as shown in Fig. 10. First, if the current frame is invariant and there exist 
superimposed points because the object swings to a specific position, as shown in Fig. 11, this 
frame image must be collected into a buffer. When the buffer is full, it means the environment 
change continues for a period. The current background model should be replaced as soon as 
possible to react to the environment change. However, the environment change may be caused by 
fixed objects or swinging objects. Hence, the occurrence frequencies of fixed and swinging 
statuses are used to determine which new background model is the most appr
osed system, the buffer size is determined according to the variant frequency. 
When the buffer is full and the ratio of frames with fixed change Ratfixed is larger than 90%, 
 6
d. Figure 13 illustrates the results of foreground object detection and shadow pixel 
limination. 
六、
und subtraction and shadow elimination. The following two 
error measures are then calculated: 
Rate of False-Positive 
and background are used to determine which object pixels need to be regarded as shadow ones 
and eliminate
e
 
結果與討論 
The foreground objects detection system by subtracting the appropriate background model 
was implemented as a Windows-based application on Pentium IV-2.4G PC. All test videos were 
captured by using a Logitech QuickCam Sphere video camera. Our test database consisted of 40 
video streams in different light and scenes. In order to evaluate the proposed system, the 
frame-based examination was performed. For each input frame, all difference pixels were 
identified by applying the backgro
objpixcorrect
objpixectedun
FP N
N
R
_
_det=  and 
Rate of True-Negative 
bgpixcorrectN _
The ratio FPR and TNR  represent the proportions of undetected object pixels 
d pixels. The detection result of a test 
bgpixmisjudged
TN
N
R _= . 
and misjudged 
backgroun frame image is correct if %10<FPR and 
%3<FPR . Table 1 depicts the experime
Test f ount correct frame count detection ratio
ntal results. 
 rame c
swinging change 1499 1468 97.9% 
Stable light 
fixed change 2023 1952 96.5% 
swinging change 864 781 90.4% 
Unstable light 
1037 fixed change 933 89.9% 
swinging change 84 82 97.6% 
Switching light 
hange fixed c 127 122 96.1% 
summarization 5634 5338 94.7% 
A mechanism of background model construction and maintenance is proposed in this paper. 
The appropriate background model is then used to detect foreground objects in each frame 
extracted from a prerecorded video. The proposed mechanism includes three phases: initial 
background model construction, sustained background model adjustment, rapid background 
model replacement. In the first phase, an initial background model is constructed from an 
unfiltered video stream. In the second phase, the background model is adjusted continually 
according to the gradual change of environment. In the third phase, when a sudden change of 
envi
out 
ronment occurs, a new background model is retrained to replace the current model.  
A moving object detection system is performed by applying a background subtraction 
approach and the shadow segmentation technique. The test database consisted of 40 video 
streams in different light and scenes. Fine experimental results, average detection rate is ab
 8
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：95 年 10 月 25 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：室內限制空間之入侵者偵測與追蹤研究 
計畫主持人：大葉大學 資訊管理學系 曾逸鴻 助理教授 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-212-025-             
學門領域：資訊學門二〈圖形辨識〉 
技術/創作名稱 視訊監視系統之環境背景模式建構與維護 
發明人/創作人 曾逸鴻、蕭宏儒 
中文： 
本研究的目標就是要在正常光線下，針對常見的環境變異情
況，建構並維護一個健全的背景模型。利用此背景模型對視訊中各
畫面進行背景相減（background subtraction），並考慮陰影特性去除
陰影，抽取理想的前景偵測結果，以利開發後續智慧型視覺監控系
統之技術。 
本研究所提的背景模型建構與維護方法主要分成三個架構：
一、初始化背景模型：自動建立起始背景模型以及後續背景相減時
所需的門檻值。二、訓練背景模型：透過不斷學習背景細微變化，
維護背景模型與背景的一致性。三、置換背景模型：一旦發現較大
的背景變化，則持續收集畫面影像，並根據環境的敏感性，作為置
換的依據。我們使用這樣的方式建立一套線上移動物體偵測系統，
以多種狀況的環境變化視訊測試均顯示此研究所提方法之實用性。
技術說明 
英文： 
In this research, a robust background model maintenance 
mechanism is proposed and used to implement a moving object 
detection module. The proposed mechanism includes three phases: 
initial background model construction, sustained background model 
adjustment, rapid background model replacement. In the first phase, an 
initial background model is constructed from an unfiltered video 
stream. In the second phase, the background model is adjusted 
continually according to the gradual change of environment. If a 
sudden change of environment occurs, the current background model 
must be replaced rapidly by a new background model in the third 
phase. The new background model is trained from some video frames 
collected in the second phase. 
Finally, a moving object detection system is performed by 
applying a background subtraction approach and a shadow elimination 
technique. By examining in several variant environments, the Fine 
experimental results illustrate the practicability of the proposed 
background model maintenance mechanism. 
