 2
omni-directional driving wheel have become much 
more popular. The reason is that omni-directional 
mobile robots have the unique property to move to 
any direction and to attain the desired orientation 
simultaneously. With these benefits, these motivate 
us to develop a home-care and nursing-care robot 
which can dexterously move in an indoor 
environment, because the indoor working space may 
be occupied by furniture and therefore may become 
narrower and more restricted. 
The omni-directional vision system which covers 
a 360° field of view makes it possible to implement a 
wide range of applications, such as autonomous 
navigation[7], and multi robot cooperation[8]. 
Omni-directional vision offers a number of 
significant benefits. Specifically, it is much easier to 
deal with rotation of the camera which is mounted on 
the robot, because the objects will not disappear from 
the omni-directional view. Therefore, it is also 
proven suitable for robot self-localization [9]. 
The machine vision problem for a mobile 
manipulator has been investigated by several 
researchers. Song and Wu [10] presented a neural 
network method for clustering the coordinates and 
pixels of a binary image of object edges and corners, 
and then found out the button of the elevator to press 
by a mobile manipulator. Hitaka et al. [11] 
introduced a novel strategy to estimate the oscillation 
of the mobile manipulator by the stereo camera 
mounted on the vehicle; the recognition of oscillation 
of the mobile manipulator was based on detecting 
landmarks fixed in the workspace frame using stereo 
camera. Huang [12] described how to build a 
PC-based digital recording system, providing simple 
real-time surveillance functions and seasonably 
prompting the guard by warning message and alerts; 
his system was shown to have better effects on the 
surveillance, and reduce hard drive storage space by 
using the techniques of motion detection. The 
binocular stereo vision which allows reliable 
extraction of depth information has extensive 
applications in three-dimension measurement [13, 14, 
15]. For the home-care and nursing-care robot’s task 
implementations, two webcams were built for 
accurate fire recognition and distance estimation. 
For safe patrolling, path or trajectory planning for 
the mobile platform is an important issue. Path or 
trajectory planning has been an active research area, 
and this problem has been tackled by many 
developed methods, such as potential field methods 
[16, 17], and neural networks approaches [18, 19]. 
Each method has its own strength over others in 
certain aspects. Generally, the main difficulties for 
the robot path planning problem are computational 
complexity, local optimum, and adaptability. 
Researchers have always been seeking alternative 
and more efficient ways to resolve the problem. It is 
no doubt that path planning can be viewed as an 
optimization problem (e.g., the shortest distance) 
under certain constrains (e.g., the given environment 
and collision-free condition). Sugihara at al. [20] 
proposed a genetic algorithm for path planning with 
fix-length binary string chromosomes based on cell 
representation of mobile robot environment. 
However, this kind of method does not have good 
ability of dealing with dynamic environment. 
Like path planning of the mobile platform, the 
manipulator has the same motion problem. Lin [21] 
presented optimal path planning for dynamic 
platforms and Kang et al. [22] stated a study on 
optimal configuration for the mobile manipulator 
considering the minimal movement. Wang et al. [24] 
proposed the genetic algorithm and the DNA 
algorithm to solve the redundant problem while the 
mobile manipulator was executing tasks. However, 
both of these two methods had drawbacks of 
premature convergence and local solutions. 
One manipulator mounted on the 
omni-directional mobile platform makes the 
home-care and nursing-care robot have an infinite 
working space and own an ability of performing 
difficult task execution. Those are good issues but 
also big challenges. This kind of home-care and 
nursing-care robot needs several external sensors, 
including an omni-directional camera, binocular 
webcams and a laser scanner, to provide the 
important environmental information surrounding the 
robot. Such a robot also has a manipulator to increase 
dexterous capabilities for the tasks execution. 
Consequently, methodologies and algorithm for the 
home-care and nursing-care robot tasks execution 
could be developed. To sum up, the research on 
home-care and nursing-care robot with human 
symbiotic capability is a quite useful and pragmatic 
topic. 
This report is organized as follows. Section 
Ⅱdescribes the physical configuration of a 
home-care and nursing-care robot with an 
omni-directional mobile platform equipped with a 
manipulator and a few sensors including an 
omni-directional camera, a binocular webcams, and a 
laser scanner. Section Ⅲ describes two main topics, 
including robot self-localization and object 
recognition. In self-localization, the position and 
orientation of the mobile robot can be uniquely 
determined by bearing measurements of artificial 
vision-based landmarks which are captured by 
omni-directional CCD. The other part of this section 
is concerned with fire recognition and fire 3D 
position estimation using binocular webcams. In 
Section Ⅳ, we propose a safe patrolling system with 
global path planning and real-time obstacle 
avoidance approach. The path planning is carried out 
by applying a novel encoded genetic algorithm and 
the real-time obstacle avoidance is implemented with 
a laser measurement system. In Section Ⅴ, 
establishes an elite genetic algorithm to solve the 
redundancy problem which usually occurs in task 
 4
IV.  Security  Patrol l ing 
In order to dependably navigate a home-care and 
nursing-care robot in indoor environments for 
security patrolling, the navigation system must be 
capable of dealing with environments, namely that a 
mobile robot should be able to reach a specified 
target without bumping into obstacle. An optimal 
solution consists of a planner that is not only able to 
generate a path based on an environment map but 
also modify it when detecting new obstacles. 
Therefore, a dependable path planning system is 
required. Motion planning proposed for the 
home-care and nursing-care robot in uncertain 
environments is conducted in two phases. The first 
one is global path planning, which is aimed at 
searching a minimal global path in a given static 
environment. The second one is local path planning, 
which focuses on finding a real-time collision-free 
path within the sight of the robot. For global path 
planning, given a description of the environment, 
initial and final positions, an optimal path-planning 
via points is determined by Dijkstra’s dynamic 
programming approach, in order to obtain a static 
collision-free trajectory. Once the robot is navigated 
safely in a global path, it also needs to consider the 
situation that dynamic obstacles moving in the 
environment may collide with the robot. Local path 
planning provides robots with the ability of real-time 
obstacle avoidance. 
 
4.1 Map representation and environment model 
The internal representation of the map can be 
“metric” or “topological”. The metric representation 
is the most common for humans. It uses the world 
frame system to store the environment data and 
considers a two dimensional space which it places the 
objects in. Metric representation can be categorized 
into spatial decomposition and geometric 
representation by the constructing way of the map. 
Spatial decomposition also called grid-based 
representation decomposes the environment 
information into cells and stores it by checking 
whether each the cell is occupied. The geometric 
representation constructs the map by using geometric 
information such as points, line segments etc. It 
describes the environment with numerical parameters 
and specifies the objects by precise coordinates in the 
frame. This representation is easy to combine the data 
of sensors with accomplished algorithm. The metric 
representation is very useful, but it is sensitive to 
noise and is difficult to calculate precisely the 
distances.  
On the other hand, topological representation 
disregards scale in the interest of clarity of 
communicating specific route or relational 
information, it only considers the relations between 
the places. The map is then a graph, in which the 
nodes represent places and edges represent the paths 
between nodes. Each edge has its weighting which 
records the distance between the nodes and the 
direction that the robot can travel along. With 
topological map, the path planning could be very 
efficient with no extra localization required and no 
requirement of keeping the precise metric 
information. The shortcoming of this representation 
is difficulty of map construction. 
An autonomous robot navigating in its 
environment needs a map representing the large-scale 
structure of the setting. In this report, we use both the 
geometric and topological representation with the 
desire to combine the advantages of them and 
counteract their disadvantages. Each wall in the map 
is represented by a line segment with the geometric 
coordinates. The mobile robot can perform 
self-localization by examining environment data. In 
order to facilitate the execution of path planning, the 
information of the geometric map will be transfer to 
the topological map. However, the map still retains 
the necessary geometric representation. With the 
build-up environment data structure, the robot can 
localized itself and find the best path to guide the 
user to the destination.  
Furthermore, in order to avoid the detection 
confusion in the similarly environments, the RFID is 
used to increase the feature of the environment. In 
this report, we design an intelligent space constructed 
with several subspaces which are assigned a RFID 
reader with different ID respectively. There is a 
center computer connects with each RFID readers, it 
is utilized to process the information from the readers 
and connect with the robot via wireless internet.  
 
4.2. Global path planning via Dijkstra’s algorithm 
Dijkstra’s is a greedy algorithm for solving the 
single-source shortest path problem. This algorithm 
performs by visiting vertices in the graph which is 
starting with the designated starting point. Moreover, 
it repeatedly examines the closest vertex that has not 
examined yet. During the examination, it adds its 
vertices into the vertices set to examine them. This 
algorithm expends outwards from the starting point 
until the goal is reached. Dijkstra's algorithm is 
capable of finding the shortest path from the starting 
point to the goal, as long as there is no negative cost 
of the edges.  
According to the above mention, the vertices 
(nodes) and the path are the two essential factors for 
this algorithm. Thus, before using the Dijkstra’s 
algorithm, the environment data has to be processed 
to obtain a topological map. The steps for processing 
the environment data were described as follows: 
Step 1. Define which two walls are opposite, and 
find all of the opposite-walls. 
Step 2. Find the x-coordinate of midlines between 
two opposite-walls. 
Step 3. Find the y-coordinate of midlines between 
two opposite-walls. 
Step 4. Compose all the possible nodes. 
 6
evolution and has the ability to adaptively search 
large spaces in near-optimal way. GA is so named 
since it is modelled upon the biological process of 
natural selection. It simulates the principles of “the 
fittest survive” of evolutionism to seek for the 
solution of a mathematics model. The algorithm 
attempts to improve the quality of individuals from 
generation to generation till the good solution has 
been obtained through three main genetic operators 
including reproduction, crossover, and mutation. 
However, in the conventional genetic algorithm, the 
best solution can easily be destroyed through 
crossover and premature convergence before the 
global optimum solution is found.  
To overcome these problems, an elite genetic 
algorithm for point-to-point motion planning will be 
proposed to correct and improve the evolution 
methods in conventional genetic algorithms. This 
method is used to obtain and optimal postures for a 
home-care and nursing-care robot executing any task. 
Unlike conventional genetic algorithms, the use of 
reproduction strategy with elite policy and diversity 
increasing in population pool significantly improves 
the convergence of the elite GA. Finally, once the 
optimal final posture of the mobile manipulator has 
been obtained via EGA, the trajectory planning has 
been implemented to ensure all the joints of the 
mobile manipulator smoothly start and end at the 
same time. Experimental results have been 
successfully used to confirm the usefulness of the 
proposed approach. 
V. Results  and Discussion 
A.Experiment1: Global Localization and object 
Recognition 
The experimental results of the estimated position 
of the robot by omni-directional camera using 
triangulation are shown as Table 1, in which one can 
have position errors are less than 3.7 (cm) and 
heading errors are less than2.5°. 
Table 2 illustrates the experimental results of 3D 
fire position determination using binocular webcams. 
The results clearly indicate that the position 
measurement error is less than 3.2 cm. For binocular 
vision-based object recognition, the desired object 
must be captured by both two cameras. This gives the 
reason why the x-directional real positions must be 
not too far from the center of the two webcams. 
In summary, the global localization method needs 
the viewed numbers of at least three landmarks.  
Through the experimental results, the proposed 
global localization method has been shown effective 
and useful in locating the robot in an indoor 
environment. Aside from the global localization 
approach, the fire recognition and its 3D position 
determination using binocular webcams have been 
offered to estimate the relative position between the 
fire and the robot. Combining with global 
localization, the robot can easily search for the fire 
and its 3D position with respect to the world frame. 
B. Experiment 2: Security Patrolling 
This subsection investigates the feasibility and 
efficiency of the proposed safe patrolling system 
including global path planning in static environment 
and local path planning for real time obstacle 
avoidance. For global path planning, the environment 
is set by 234cm x 600cm. Fig.6 shows that the 
proposed GA guided the home-care and nursing-care 
robot to pass through the environment with static 
obstacles, and finally reach the destination. For 
real-time obstacle avoidance, In the experimentation 
the start position and the end position are estimated 
by (100, 50) and (105, 570) (unit:cm) for the 
home-care and nursing-care robot. If there is no 
obstacle placed around the path, the robot will go 
directly to the destination and always face forward. 
While the robot is moving to the destination, we 
randomly put obstacles on (24,120), (163, 230), (130, 
319) and (40, 433) (unit:cm) around the path as 
shown in Fig. 7. Fig. 8 shows the experimental 
results in which the proposed WDM helps the robot 
achieve real-time obstacle avoidance, and the robot 
angle is illustrated in Fig. 9. 
The self-patrolling system which is used to deal 
with the environment contains static and dynamic 
obstacles and to reach the desired final destination. 
The global optimal path guaranteed by employing 
Dijkstra’s dynamic programming approach which  
uses a simple and unique robot path representation 
that combines metric and topological environment 
representations. With the laser scanner, the proposed 
WDM has been proven effective in steering the robot 
to reach the final pose without any dynamic 
collisions. Through the experimental results, the 
feasibility of the proposed method has been 
successfully confirmed. 
C. Experiment 3: Fetch-and-Carry Task Execution 
This subsection demonstrates the home-care and 
nursing-care robot services people by fetching and 
carrying object in indoor environment. For fetch and 
carry task execution, the first axis of the manipulator
θ1, and the rotation of the omni-directional mobile 
platform θv was assigned to be unchanged. By 
reducing these parameters, the error can be 
descended. Fig.10 shows the experimental results of 
the fetch and carry task. In the beginning, the single 
camera detected the object and calculated its 3D 
position through image processing. Genetic algorithm 
was responded for solve the redundant problem of 
the mobile manipulator via small size personal 
computer, and then sending the (x,y) coordinate to 
the omni-directional mobile platform controller, 
Stratix edition Nios development board, and the each 
angle of the manipulator to the manipulator controller, 
Stratix II edition Nios development board. All of the 
above communication was via TCP protocol. The 
omni-directional mobile platform steered the robot to 
 8
Conference on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics, vol.1, 
pp.601-605, July 2001. 
[10] G. A. Huang, A Real-time Surveillance System Based On 
Motion Detection, M.S. Thesis, Department of Computer 
Science and Information Engineering, National Chiao-Tung 
University, July 2001. 
[11] H. Loaiza, J. Triboulet, S . Lelandais, and C. Barat, 
“Matching Segments in Stereoscopic Vision,” IEEE 
Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 
37-42, March 2001. 
[12] H. Issa, Y. Ruichek and J. G. Postaire, “Extracting Depth 
Information from Stereo Linear Images Using a Genetic 
Approach,” Intelligent Systems, 2002. Proceedings. 2002 
First International IEEE Symposium, vol. 1, pp.185-189, 
Sept, 10-12.2002. 
[13] Y. Ogawa, K. Ishimura and M. Wada, “Stereo Vision Using 
Pulse-Coupled Neural Network,” SICE 2002. Proceedings of 
the 41st SICE Annual Conference, vol. 2, pp 719-724, Aug 
5-7. 2002. 
[14] P. Khosla and R. Volpe. “Superquadric Artificial Potentials 
for Obstacle Avoidance and Approach,” in Proc. of IEEE Intl. 
Conf. on Robotics and Automation, Vol. 3, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA, pp.1778-1784, April 1988.  
[15] J. H. Chuang and N. Ahuja, “An Analytically Tractable 
Potential Field Model of Free Space and Its Application in 
Obstacle Avoidance,” IEEE Transactions on systems, Man, 
and Cybernetics-Part B : Cybernetics, vol. 28, no. 5, 
pp.729-736, October 1998. 
[16] W. Tang, L. Lam, and J. Wang, “Kinematic Control and 
Obstacle Avoidance for Redundant Manipulators using a 
Recurrent Neural Network,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Artificial 
Neural Networks, pp. 922-929, 2001. 
[17] S. X. Yang and M. Meng, “An Efficient Neural Network 
Approach to Dynamic Robot Motion Planning,” Nerual 
Nerworks, vol. 13, pp. 143-148, 2000. 
[18] K. Sugihara and J. Smith, “Genetic Algorithms for Adaptive 
Motion Planning of an Autonomous Mobile Robot,” in 
Proceedings of IEEE Intl. Symposium on Computational 
Intelligence in Robotics and Automation, pp. 138-143, 1997.. 
[19] C. L. Lin, Optimal Path Planning for Dynamic Platforms, 
M.S. Thesis, Department of Automatic Control Engineering, 
Feng Chia University, Taichung, Taiwan, June 2004. 
[20] J. G. Kang and J. M. Lee, “A Study on Optimal 
Configuration for the Mobile Manipulator Considering the 
Minimal Movement,” Proceedings of IEEE International 
Symposium on Industrial Electronics, vol.2, pp.546-551, Dec. 
2000. 
[21] L. B. Jiang, Point-to-Point Optimal Configuration Planning 
and Control of an Omnidirectional Mobile Manipulator, M.S. 
Thesis, Department of Electrical Engineering, National 
Chung-Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, July 2005. 
[22] D. S. Wang, System Design, Trajectory planning and Control 
of an Omni-directional Mobile Robot, M.S. Thesis, 
Department of Electrical Engineering, National Chung-Hsing 
University, Taichung, Taiwan, July 2006. 
[23] D. S. Wang, System Design, Trajectory planning and Control 
of an Omni-directional Mobile Robot, M.S. Thesis, 
Department of Electrical Engineering, National Chung-Hsing 
University, Taichung, Taiwan, July 2006.  
[24] K. Sugihara and J. Smith, “Genetic Algorithms for Adaptive 
Motion Planning of an Autonomous Mobile Robot,” in 
Proceedings of IEEE Intl. Symposium on Computational 
Intelligence in Robotics and Automation, pp. 138-143, 1997. 
[25] L. B. Jiang, Point-to-Point Optimal Configuration Planning 
and Control of an Omnidirectional Mobile Manipulator, M.S. 
Thesis, Department of Electrical Engineering, National 
Chung-Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, July 2005. 
[26] Y. Matsumoto, K. Ikeda, M. Inaba, and H. Inoue, “Visual 
Navigation using Omni-directional View Sequence,” 
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, 
vol.1, pp.317-322, 1999. 
 
Table 1.Experimental results of the static robot pose estimation 
using omni-directional camera 
 
Table 2.Experimental results of the 3-D ball position estimation. 
 
 
 
Fig 1. Physical structure of the home-care and nursing-care robot. 
 
 
Fig 2.(a) FPGA-based control modules of the home-care and 
nursing-care robot . (b) The laser scanner used for the 
home-care and nursing-care robot. 
 10
 
Fig.11 Experimental results for fire extinguishment task execution. 
Thomas Parisini, University of Trieste -Control of distributed-information nonlinear stochastic 
systems。Keynote speakers：Pascal Gahinet, The MathWorks -CACSD tools: a MathWorks 
perspective。Raymond Freymann, BMW Group Research and Technology-The role of driver 
assistance systems in a future traffic scenario。Christian Philippe, European Space Research and 
Technology Centre - European Space Agency，ESA perspectives on advanced control technology for 
complex space systems 。 
研討會在十月四日正式登場。本次大會的會議分有三個
 Plenary Sessions 及三個 Keynote 
Sessions和九十九場的小型技術會議（Technical Sessions）。主辦單位於每天上午8:00至9:00間，
下午12：00-14：00各安排一個Plenary Session，並於 09:20-11:20,14:20-16:20, 16:40-18:40 三
期間內各有七場同時進行的小組技術會議。
 
      除了吸引數百人聆聽的 Plenary Sessions 的精彩演講外，尚有當地各大學生及教師進行
有關電機與電子的教學研討與觀摩，為電機與電子領域補充新力軍。除了以上所述之外，更
引人入勝的是各種研究領域的小組技術研討會議。每一小型技術會議裡有六篇與主題相關的
論文發表，每篇論文的發表者必須在十五分內結束報告並有五分鐘的問題回答時間。如果您
對某些論點特別感興趣，除了當場請教外，也可私底下互相交流溝通。由於九組小型技術會
議於同時段裡進行，聽者可穿梭於會場中，聽取自己所需的報告。九十九場的小型技術會議
的主題幾近乎包含廣闊，與我所學相關的，從線性系統、強健控制、最佳控制、適應控制、
非線性控制、觀測和追蹤、智慧型控制、學習控制、模糊控制、類神經網路控制、可變結構、
分散式控制、多變數控制、穩定度、離散事件動態系統、模式預測控制、與線性系統、非完
整控制系統等控制理論和其計算、實驗、應用等相關課題，至濾波理論、估計、追蹤、故障
偵測與隔離、模式辨識與驗證、隨機系統等隨機技術領域研究，以至於如混合控制、飛行控
制、動力系統、生物系統控制、製造系統、空調系統控制、程序控制、彈性機械臂與結構控
制，DSP 應用等多方面的實務技術。在諸多的主題裡，筆者僅選擇相關有興趣非線性動力學
與控制、非線性系統、非完整系統控制、拘束控制、預估控制、適應控制以及控制應用等相
關的論文聆聽，參與相關的研討。雖是短暫的交流，對目前研究動態的掌握，未來研究方向
的釐定，甚有助益。吾人的論文「Adaptive Integral Position Control Using RBF Neural Networks 
fo rBrushless DC Linear Motor Drive」，隸屬於十月六日（星期五）下午的『類神經網路控制』
的場次，由本人發表，其內容是以倒逆步滑動模態之控制策略來達成線型直流無刷馬達之位
置控制。 
    
主辦單位為加強學者專家、與會者間的交流，特別在飯店於十月五日（星期四）從19.30 到 
23.00安排與會者在輕鬆情況下共進晚餐（型如德國著名的啤酒節），互增友誼，眾人把酒言歡，
預約明年見。如此的景況，年復一年，人類的電機與電子之科技智慧將在這樣會議中綿延不
盡的進步與發展、綿延不息
 
。
 
（四）建議
 
控制科技是一具傳統性，又能不斷地隨時代的需求推陳出新的重要技術。它對人類的影
響無遠弗界。在此次的研討會中，相當多的研究主題是控制的工業應用，可預測的是未來朝
