information and communication technology, tourism and 
travel industry, innovation service 
 
II 
 
摘要 
 
觀光旅遊對於四面環海、缺乏天然資源之台灣而言極具吸引力與發展利基。國內長
期累積之資通訊產業供應鍊聚落及充沛技術創新成果若能與觀光旅遊創新服務應用趨
勢相整合，將能為經濟發展帶來顯著貢獻。近年來有關觀光旅遊業電子化與資通訊應用
之調查研究顯示，觀光旅遊業規模多為中小型企業、多層次分工互補現象明顯，雖然逐
漸關注網站建置與服務提供，但對於導入及實施整合專案所需之科技能力定義與衡量而
言，相關研究之投注仍較為欠缺。本研究整合組織層面、專案管理層面、及資通訊科技
整合等觀點與方法，並結合深度訪談來建構衡量項目與指標。在個案研究與模式實證方
面，將針對國內領先旅行社業者、應用前述衡量模式進行科技能力衡量，除了衡量個別
公司之資通訊整合應用科技能力外，並將衡量結果與經營績效進行關係分析與驗證。 
關鍵詞：能力衡量模式，專案管理，資通訊科技，觀光旅遊業，創新服務 
 
 
 
Abstract 
Nowadays, Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) are recognized as key 
tools in management processes, having a remarkable potential to sustain competitive 
advantages for businesses. Indeed, most tourism and travel business in Taiwan are medium or 
small enterprises. The core operational manpower focuses on specialized travel service. As a 
result, most companies adopted collaborative and cross-company project to implement the 
application of ICT onto innovative service process. This study proposed a model for 
assessing an organization’s capability of implementing ICT into an integrated service project. 
The evaluation framework is conducted to evaluate various capabilities including 
organizational, project management, and integrated application of ICTs. These capability 
analysis data facilitates manager to realize which capability needs to be further improved or 
maintain status quo. The proposed model helps travel business practitioners and project 
managers to systematically evaluate their innovation service solutions and related capability 
status. In turn, the risk of project suspended and integrated implementation failure will be 
reduced. 
 
Keywords: Capability assessment model, project management, information and 
communication technology, tourism and travel industry, innovation service. 
2 
 
understand how they can gain and add value through developing their ICT capability. Hence, 
a capability assessment model is needed for helping managers to analyze the integrated 
service project. 
 
2. Literature Review 
2.1 ICTs in Tourism 
Within the knowledge-based economy, SMEs are facing both opportunities and 
challenges due to the ICTs development. ICTs, which include the telephone, cellular 
technologies, telefax, e-mail and the Internet, are rapidly transforming business practices 
across the world and provide new enhanced business opportunities for both industrialized and 
developing countries. It also explores possibilities for improved market operations and 
business expansions through ICT based marketing and communication by SMEs operating in 
the tourism industry (Bourgouin, 2002; Gago & Rubalcaba, 2007). 
ICTs have revolutionized the travel industry in the last decade. E-tourism reflects the 
digitalization of all processes and value chains in the tourism, travel, hospitality and catering 
industries. It emerges as a term describing the entire range of applications of ICTs on tourism 
and the implications for the tourism value chain. Major opportunities and challenges have 
emerged and need to be addressed by all industry players. 
E-tourism, therefore, is emerging as a way forward for many destinations and 
organizations around the world. At the tactical level, it includes e-commerce and ICTs for 
maximizing the internal efficiency and effectiveness of tourism organizations. At the strategic 
level, e-tourism revolutionizes all business processes, the entire value chain as well as the 
strategic relationships of tourism organizations with all of their stakeholders. The internet 
allows tourism organizations to interact with all their stakeholders, including potential and 
loyal customers, local groups and public authorities. By taking advantage of intranets 
(internal network systems that are accessed by employees) organizations can re-engineer 
internal processes, while extranets can support the development of close relationships with 
trusted partners that can lead to online transactions, expansion of the distribution channel and 
extension of the value chain (Buhalis & Deimezi, 2004). Table 1 summarized ICT integrated 
application in travel industry. 
Table 1. ICT integrated application in travel industry 
Innovation Area Processes, Practices, Options, Tools 
Relationships with service providers E-contracting and web-based procurement 
Co-design and online package assembly 
Relationships with travelers Use of digital messaging 
Systematic profiling and feedback collection 
Web 2.0 platforms for marketing and transactions 
Intra-organizational processes Communication through mobile/smart devices 
Creativity and innovation forums and awards 
ICT training and e-learning 
Business intelligence and reporting 
Source: Margherita & Petti (2009) 
4 
 
higher levels of department autonomy. External knowledge sources, which are addressed by 
computer services providers, domestic, and international customers, also play a relevant role 
as agents to enable different service innovation manifestations, especially the latter (Gago & 
Rubalcaba, 2007). 
The organizational enablers of ICT innovative service project implementation include 
change attitude, training on industry electronic trends, analysis of competitive risks, training 
on e-business benefits, motivation system (Joseph, 2008; Margherita & Petti, 2009; Tsiotsou, 
2010). Table 2 lists organizational capability assessment criteria. 
 
Table 2. Organizational capability 
Construct Assessment Criteria 
Organizational 
Capability 
1. Fully support budget 
2. Selecting of right project manager 
3. Communicating and coordinating to attain consensus  
4. Smooth integration across functional departments 
5. Employee’s full awareness of system structure and functions 
6. Employee’s quick learning ability of new information technology 
7. Having at least one professional computer staff 
8. Employee possesses relevant knowledge and knows job process very well 
9. Building a empowered team to lead the change 
10. Employee’s cooperation toward system implementation and process reengineering 
 
2.2.2 Project Management Capability 
Based on the OPM3 of Project Management Institute (2008), the study develops the 
project management capability assessment criteria, as listed in Table 3.  
 
Table 3. Project management capability 
Construct Assessment Criteria 
Project Management  
Capability 
1. Building an across functional project team 
2. Using project management process group and related technique 
3. Project team acknowledges organization goal 
4. Ability to analyze learn a lesson from past project experience  
5. Enable to define and review project goal and stakeholders  
6. Having proper method to evaluate the resource allocation 
7. Evaluating project performance periodically 
8. Using an evaluation system to review individual and project team’s performance 
9. Having project quality management policy and executing it 
10. Continuously measure and evaluate the risk impact during a project running period  
 
2.2.3 Integrated Application Capability 
Customer orientation has been linked to several marketing capabilities in the literature. 
The internet as a stand-alone resource can assist in leveraging marketing processes and 
capabilities such as enhancing product selection and information, interactivity, 
personalization, community and customer support. Furthermore, capabilities related to 
customers (for example, customer linking, service quality) provide the foundation for 
6 
 
concept, a hierarchical structure of ICT integrated project is introduced to delineate the 
relationship between each construct and relevant criteria. To determine criterion weight, 
fuzzy linguistic terms are selected for expressing evaluator’s semantic decision making. The 
rating of each criterion is determined by a panel of evaluators with a group decision. Lastly, a 
performance matrix chart is introduced for identifying inconsistent criteria. The following 
section explains the steps involved in the assessment process.  
Step 1: Constructing a hierarchical evaluation structure. The structure is designed for 
delineating the relationship between the constructs and its related criteria. The 
hierarchical evaluation structure will be helpful in the cause and effect analysis. 
Step 2: Assigning weight to each criterion. Managers are asked to rate the importance of 
each criterion because they thoroughly understand their ICT project. They will do 
this by using seven linguistic terms: “very unimportant,” “unimportant,” “somewhat 
unimportant,” “neutral,” “somewhat important,” “important,” and “very important.” 
The reason for using linguistic terms instead of the Likert scale is that criterion 
importance is a semantic decision making which involves the uncertainty and 
fuzziness of human decision making. The finding of Zadeh’s (1995) empirical study 
suggested that fuzzy theory is more pertinent for delineating fuzzy characteristics 
while people making judgments. In fact, fuzzy data may be expressed in linguistic 
terms or in fuzzy numbers. To transform linguistic terms into crisp numbers, Chen 
and Hwang (1992) proposed a simple and effective methodology to solve fuzzy 
multiple attributes of the decision-making problem. According to the conversion 
scales of fuzzy numbers, these fuzzy linguistic terms can be transformed into one of 
the following crispy weights (Wij, where i is construct and j is its related criteria): 
0.09, 0.23, 0.36, 0.50, 0.64, 0.78, and 0.91. 
Step 3: Selecting a panel of experts as evaluators. To make a proper group decision in 
rating the criteria, Robbins (1994) suggested that the number of experts should be 
five to seven for best practice. 
Step 4: Rating each criterion. Evaluators rated each criterion using a linguistic term to 
express their agreement or disagreement with a statement in each question. These 
terms were “strongly disagree,” “disagree,” “somewhat disagree,” “neutral,” 
“somewhat agree,” “agree,” and “strongly agree.” As mentioned previously, these 
fuzzy linguistic terms can be transformed into one of the following crisp scores (Sijk, 
where i is construct, j is its related criteria, and k is evaluator): 0.09, 0.23, 0.36, 0.50, 
0.64, 0.78, and 0.91. 
Step 5: Normalizing criteria weights. The reason for this is to conveniently compare the 
relative importance of criteria under a construct. The normalized weight (NWij) is 
calculated as follows: 
8 
 
Step 8: Constructing a criteria performance matrix chart. The result of criterion presence 
score is plotted against the X-axis and criterion importance (weight) is plotted 
against the Y-axis. The scale of the X-axis and the Y-axis is between 0 and 1(Chiou 
et al., 2011). A matrix chart has nine cells when the axes are equally divided into 
three sections with four scales [0, 1/3, 2/3, 1]. Two off-diagonal lines, which are 
subjectively adjustable according to the organization's available resources, are added 
as a confidence interval to make the objective zone (T) more reasonable. The 
manager needs to determine a proper confidence level before interpreting the result. 
The objective zone (T) is defined as the area between two off-diagonal lines. A 
criterion located in the objective zone is consistence under a level of confidence and 
should be maintained. A criterion located in the improve zone (T1) is considered 
inconsistence and should be improved. This is because the criterion presence score is 
far behind its importance weight. To some extent, a criterion located in the reduce 
zone (T2) will not be considered inconsistence but should be considered to reduce 
allocated resource. The reason is that a criterion presence score far exceeds the 
importance weight, which means that the criterion is over-performed. 
 
4. Conclusion 
An assessment model was conducted to ensure capability consistency between expected 
and actual presence. This framework included eight steps to provide a systematic approach 
while conducting a capability assessment. Based on our proposed assessment model, future 
research may use a case study to validate the effectiveness of assessment and continuously 
modify these assessment criteria. 
 
10 
 
Chen, S. J., & Hwang, C. L. (1992). Fuzzy multiple attribute decision making-method and 
application, New York, NY: Springer-Verlag. 
Chiou, W. C., Lin, C. C., & Perng, C. (2011). A Strategic Website Evaluation of Online 
Travel Agencies. Tourism Management, 32(6), 1463-1473. 
Damaskopoulos, P., & Evgeniou, T. (2003). Adoption of New Economy Practices by SMEs 
in Eastern Europe. European Management Journal, 21(2), 133-145. 
Day, G. S. (1994). The capabilities of market-driven organizations. Journal of Marketing, 
58(4), 37-52 . 
Eng, T. Y. (2008). E-customer service capability and value creation. The Service Industries 
Journal, 28(9), 1293–1306. 
Evans, J. R., & King, V. E. (1999). Business-to-Business marketing and the World Wide 
Web: Planning, managing, and assessing Web sites. Industrial Marketing Management, 
28(4), 343-358. 
Gago, D. & Rubalcaba, L. (2007). Innovation and ICT in service firms: towards a 
multidimensional approach for impact assessment. Journal of Evolutionary Economics, 
17(1), 25-44. 
Ion, P. & Andreea, Z. (2008). Use of ICT in SEMs management within the sector of services.  
Annals of the University of Oradea, Economic Science Series, 17(4), 481-487. 
Joseph, B. (2008). Management Based Critical Success Factors in the Implementation of 
Enterprise Resource Planning Systems. International Journal of Accounting Information 
Systems, 9(3), 175-200. 
Kinder, T. (2002). Emerging e-commerce business models: an analysis of case studies from 
West Lothian, Scotland. European Journal of Innovation Management, 5(3), 130–151. 
Margherita, A. & Petti, C. (2009). E-Business Adoption: A Readiness and Process Study of 
the Italian Tourism Distribution. International journal of e-business management, 3(1), 
3-19. 
Martin, L.M. & Matlay, H. (2001). Blanket approaches to small firm support: some lessons 
from the DTI adoption ladder. Journal of Internet Research, 11(5), 399–410. 
Metcalfe, J. S., & Miles, I. (2000). Introduction, overview and reprise. In J. S. Metcalfe & I. 
Miles (Ed.), Innovation systems in the service economy: Measurements and case study 
analysis (pp.1-12), Boston, MA: Kluwer. 
Miles, I. & Ducatel, K. (1994). The diffusion of information technology in Europe. In: K. 
Ducatel (Ed.), Employment and technical change in Europe. UK: Edward Elgar. 
Nousala, S., Ifandoudas, P., Terziovski, M., & Chapman, R. (2008). Process improvement 
and ICTs in Australian SMEs: a selection and implementation framework. Production 
Planning & Control, 19(8), 735-753. 
Project Management Institute. (2008). Organizational Project Management Maturity Model. 
PA: PMI. 
1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                             年    月    日 
報告人姓名  
邱文志 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
國立勤益科技大學企管系 
教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2012/7/15-2012/7/18 
帛琉（Koror, Republic of 
Palau） 
國科會核定 
補助文號 
NSC 100-2221-E-167-021（補助
註冊費及生活費、不包含機票） 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)創新與管理國際研討會 
 (英文)International Conference on Innovation and Management 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)建構旅遊業資通訊科技整合能力評量模式 
 (英文)Construct the ICT Integrated Capability Assessment Model of 
the Tourism Industry 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議目的 
與會發表論文並與學術同好互動交流、吸收新知。 
二、參加會議經過 
配合班機航班、於 7/14 下午抵達當地。 
7/15在大廳進行報到、領取資料夾。 
7/16開幕式，接著進行 A1-A3、B1-B3之研討議程。 
7/17進行 C1-C3、D1-D3 之研討議程。 
7/18進行 E1-E3（於 E2 議程場地、發表論文#P0176）、F1-F3之研討議程，接著進
行閉幕。 
    7/18搭乘晚班飛機、返回台灣。 
三、與會心得 
1.資通訊整合應用之研究議題、伴隨全球數位收斂趨勢，逐漸受到研究者之注意與
重視。相關發表篇數與議題頗受與會者討論與關注。 
2.正值暑假期間，許多與會者均協同家眷參與，有些年紀較長之國高中生、亦會穿
梭會場了解國際學術研討會相關事宜，也是一件向下紮根的美事。 
3.研討會期間、碰到許多國內同領域、同學門教授先進，多所請益以了解國科會學
門研究取向。 
四、建議 
1.由於經費的限制，無法協同碩士生研究助理一併與會，爾後若經費許可將儘量協
同與會，讓研究生後輩有機會多多參與學術交流。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1.研討會論文集一本（ISSN：2218-6387）。 
2.研討會註冊費收據正本一張。 
3.研討會與會證書一張。 
 
 
3 
 
論文全文 
Construct the ICT Integrated Capability Assessment Model of  
the Tourism Industry 
Wen-Chih Chiou
1
, Chin-Chao Lin
2
, Chyung Perng
3
 and Jen-Teng Tsai
4
 
Department of Business Administration, National Chin-Yi University of Technology, Taiwan
1
 
Department of Marketing and Distribution Management,  
Hsiuping University of Science and Technology, Taiwan
2
 
Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, National Quemoy University
3 
Department of Industrial Engineering and Enterprise Information,  
Tunghai University, Taiwan
4
 
 
chiouwc@ncut.edu.tw
1
 
kevinlin@mail.hust.edu.tw
2
 
perngc@nqu.edu.tw
3
 
tsaijt@ie.thu.edu.tw
4
 
Corresponding Author: chiouwc@ncut.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
Nowadays, Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) are recognized as key tools 
in management processes, having a remarkable potential to sustain competitive advantages for 
businesses. Indeed, most tourism and travel business in Taiwan are medium or small enterprises. 
The core operational manpower focuses on specialized travel service. As a result, most companies 
adopted collaborative and cross-company project to implement the application of ICT onto 
innovative service process. This study proposed a model for assessing an organization’s capability 
of implementing ICT into an integrated service project. The evaluation framework is conducted to 
evaluate various capabilities including organizational, project management, and integrated 
application of ICTs. These capability analysis data facilitates manager to realize which capability 
needs to be further improved or maintain status quo. The proposed model helps travel business 
practitioners and project managers to systematically evaluate their innovation service solutions and 
related capability status. In turn, the risk of project suspended and integrated implementation failure 
will be reduced. 
 
Keywords: Capability assessment model, project management, information and communication 
technology, tourism and travel industry, innovation service. 
 
5 
 
2. Literature Review 
2.1 ICTs in Tourism 
Within the knowledge-based economy, SMEs are facing both opportunities and challenges due 
to the ICTs development. ICTs, which include the telephone, cellular technologies, telefax, e-mail 
and the Internet, are rapidly transforming business practices across the world and provide new 
enhanced business opportunities for both industrialized and developing countries. It also explores 
possibilities for improved market operations and business expansions through ICT based marketing 
and communication by SMEs operating in the tourism industry (Bourgouin, 2002; Gago & 
Rubalcaba, 2007). 
ICTs have revolutionized the travel industry in the last decade. E-tourism reflects the 
digitalization of all processes and value chains in the tourism, travel, hospitality and catering 
industries. It emerges as a term describing the entire range of applications of ICTs on tourism and 
the implications for the tourism value chain. Major opportunities and challenges have emerged and 
need to be addressed by all industry players. 
E-tourism, therefore, is emerging as a way forward for many destinations and organizations 
around the world. At the tactical level, it includes e-commerce and ICTs for maximizing the internal 
efficiency and effectiveness of tourism organizations. At the strategic level, e-tourism revolutionizes 
all business processes, the entire value chain as well as the strategic relationships of tourism 
organizations with all of their stakeholders. The internet allows tourism organizations to interact 
with all their stakeholders, including potential and loyal customers, local groups and public 
authorities. By taking advantage of intranets (internal network systems that are accessed by 
employees) organizations can re-engineer internal processes, while extranets can support the 
development of close relationships with trusted partners that can lead to online transactions, 
expansion of the distribution channel and extension of the value chain (Buhalis & Deimezi, 2004). 
Table 1 summarized ICT integrated application in travel industry. 
 
Table 1. ICT integrated application in travel industry 
Innovation Area Processes, Practices, Options, Tools 
Relationships with service providers E-contracting and web-based procurement 
Co-design and online package assembly 
Relationships with travelers Use of digital messaging 
Systematic profiling and feedback collection 
Web 2.0 platforms for marketing and transactions 
Intra-organizational processes Communication through mobile/smart devices 
Creativity and innovation forums and awards 
ICT training and e-learning 
Business intelligence and reporting 
Source: Margherita & Petti (2009) 
 
2.2 Capability Assessment Criteria 
Successful e-business initiatives and strategies depend on the mentalities of managers, their 
understanding of ICT, and the organizational implications of adopting ICT (Damaskopoulos & 
Evgeniou, 2003). In this endeavor, ICT can be a powerful enabler. However, innovative projects 
7 
 
Table 2. Organizational capability 
Construct Assessment Criteria 
Organizational 
Capability 
1. Fully support budget 
2. Selecting of right project manager 
3. Communicating and coordinating to attain consensus  
4. Smooth integration across functional departments 
5. Employee’s full awareness of system structure and functions 
6. Employee’s quick learning ability of new information technology 
7. Having at least one professional computer staff 
8. Employee possesses relevant knowledge and knows job process very well 
9. Building a empowered team to lead the change 
10. Employee’s cooperation toward system implementation and process reengineering 
 
2.2.2 Project Management Capability 
Based on the OPM3 of Project Management Institute (2008), the study develops the project 
management capability assessment criteria, as listed in Table 3.  
 
Table 3. Project management capability 
Construct Assessment Criteria 
Project Management  
Capability 
1. Building an across functional project team 
2. Using project management process group and related technique 
3. Project team acknowledges organization goal 
4. Ability to analyze learn a lesson from past project experience  
5. Enable to define and review project goal and stakeholders  
6. Having proper method to evaluate the resource allocation 
7. Evaluating project performance periodically 
8. Using an evaluation system to review individual and project team’s performance 
9. Having project quality management policy and executing it 
10. Continuously measure and evaluate the risk impact during a project running period  
 
2.2.3 Integrated Application Capability 
Customer orientation has been linked to several marketing capabilities in the literature. The 
internet as a stand-alone resource can assist in leveraging marketing processes and capabilities such 
as enhancing product selection and information, interactivity, personalization, community and 
customer support. Furthermore, capabilities related to customers (for example, customer linking, 
service quality) provide the foundation for developing a more effective retail mix and assist in 
gaining and sustaining a competitive advantage. 
Tsiotsou et al.(2010) reports that customer oriented services firms develop marketing 
capabilities such as service quality, service variety, customers’ service, marketing support, 
technology usage and product promotion. Customer orientation is associated with innovative 
activities and specifically, with technological capabilities. Customer-oriented firms are more 
responsive in adopting internet-based technologies that enable them to satisfy customer needs and 
counteract competitors’ actions. This study revised the assessment frameworks of Webster (1993) 
and Eng (2008) to evaluate a project’s capability of integrated application. The assessment criteria 
are listed in Table 4. 
 
 
9 
 
decision making which involves the uncertainty and fuzziness of human decision making. 
The finding of Zadeh’s (1995) empirical study suggested that fuzzy theory is more 
pertinent for delineating fuzzy characteristics while people making judgments. In fact, 
fuzzy data may be expressed in linguistic terms or in fuzzy numbers. To transform 
linguistic terms into crisp numbers, Chen and Hwang (1992) proposed a simple and 
effective methodology to solve fuzzy multiple attributes of the decision-making problem. 
According to the conversion scales of fuzzy numbers, these fuzzy linguistic terms can be 
transformed into one of the following crispy weights (Wij, where i is construct and j is its 
related criteria): 0.09, 0.23, 0.36, 0.50, 0.64, 0.78, and 0.91. 
Step 3: Selecting a panel of experts as evaluators. To make a proper group decision in rating the 
criteria, Robbins (1994) suggested that the number of experts should be five to seven for 
best practice. 
Step 4: Rating each criterion. Evaluators rated each criterion using a linguistic term to express 
their agreement or disagreement with a statement in each question. These terms were 
“strongly disagree,” “disagree,” “somewhat disagree,” “neutral,” “somewhat agree,” 
“agree,” and “strongly agree.” As mentioned previously, these fuzzy linguistic terms can be 
transformed into one of the following crisp scores (Sijk, where i is construct, j is its related 
criteria, and k is evaluator): 0.09, 0.23, 0.36, 0.50, 0.64, 0.78, and 0.91. 
Step 5: Normalizing criteria weights. The reason for this is to conveniently compare the relative 
importance of criteria under a construct. The normalized weight (NWij) is calculated as 
follows: 



n
j
ij
ij
ij
W
W
NW
1
 ······································································ (1) 
where Wij is the weight of criterion j with respect to construct i, and n is the number of 
criteria j under construct i. 
Step 6: Calculating average scores, weighted scores, and construct scores. To aggregate 
individual judgments in a group into a single representative judgment, Saaty (1980) 
contended that the geometric mean accurately represents the consensus of evaluators and is 
the most widely used in practical applications. It has been proved that the geometric mean, 
not the frequently used arithmetic mean, is the only way to do that (Saaty, 2008). In this 
sense, the geometric mean is used for aggregating a group of n evaluators’ judgment. The 
average score of a criterion (ASij) is computed as follows:  
ASij = n
n
k
ijkS
1
 ······························································ (2) 
where n is the number of evaluators. 
The weighted score of the criterion j (WSij) and the weighted score of a construct (DWSi) 
are calculated using these equations: 
11 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Criteria performance matrix chart. 
 
Acknowledgement 
The authors would like to thank the National Science Council, Taiwan, for financially 
supporting this research under contract No. NSC 100-2221-E-167-021. 
 
References 
Antonelli, C. (1998). Localised technological change, new information technology and the 
knowledge-based economy: the European evidence. Journal of Evolutionary Economics, 8(2), 
177–198. 
Bourgouin, F. (2002). Information communication technologies and the potential for rural tourism 
SMME development: the case of the Wild Coast. Development Southern Africa, 19(1), 
191-212. 
Buhalis, D. & Deimezi, O. (2004). E-tourism developments in Greece: Information communication 
technologies adoption for the strategic management of the Greek tourism industry. Tourism 
and Hospitality Research, 5(2), 103–130. 
Celuch, K., Murphy, G. B., & Callaway, S. K. (2007). More bang for your buck: Small firms and 
the importance of aligned information technology capabilities and strategic flexibility. The 
Journal of High Technology Management Research, 17(2), 187-197. 
Chapman, P., Moore, M. J. & Szczygiel, M. (2000). Building Internet Capabilities in SMEs. 
Logistics Information Management, 13(6), 353–360. 
Chen, S. J., & Hwang, C. L. (1992). Fuzzy multiple attribute decision making-method and 
application, New York, NY: Springer-Verlag. 
Definitely Improve Maintain 
T1 
 T  
T2 
Reduce Definitely Reduce 
Maintain 
Maintain 
Improve 
Reduce 
Im
p
o
rt
an
ce
 W
ei
g
h
t 
Presence Score 
1/3 0.5 2/3 1 0 
1/3 
0.5 
2/3 
1 
Maintain 
Maintain 
Improve 
Maintain 
Maintain 
13 
 
Saaty, T. L. (2008). Decision making with the analytic hierarchy process. Internal Journal Services 
Sciences, 1(1), 83-98. 
Tsiotsou, R. H., Rigopoulou, I. D., & Kehagias, J. D. (2010). Tracing customer orientation and 
marketing capabilities through retailers’ websites: A strategic approach to internet marketing. 
Journal of Targeting, Measurement and Analysis for Marketing, 18(2), 79–94. 
Webster , C . (1993). Refinement of the marketing culture scale and the relationship between 
marketing culture and profitability of a service firm. Journal of Business Research, 26 (2), 
111-131. 
Zadeh, L. A. (1995). Probability theory and fuzzy logic are complementary rather than competitive. 
Technometrics, 37(3), 271-276. 
 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：邱文志 計畫編號：100-2221-E-167-021- 
計畫名稱：觀光旅遊業資通訊科技整合能力評量模式之建構 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100% 精簡報告 
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
發 表 於 2012 
International 
Conference on 
Innovation and 
Management 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
