加熱方式能大幅減少膠料固化後殘留之氣泡，而使接合試片
重疊剪切強度比傳統加熱環氧樹脂膠料提高了 48%。 
    在接合導體材料如不銹鋼、黃銅、鋁板時，本研究發展
出直接用欲接合的導電基材作為電極，使電流自一基板經由
導電膠料後從另一基板導出。此種加熱方式因大幅縮短電流
經由膠料的路徑及增加電流通過的面積，且利用金屬基板快
速導熱原理消除溫度-電流之正回饋問題，而達成穩定且快速
加熱的效果。本研究並探討了最佳的奈米碳管添加量與其機
制。 
    經由本研究發展出的使用電流直接加熱固化奈米碳管/環
氧樹脂之複合膠料方法，可使用最簡單的設備、以最節能、
省時的方式接合所有環氧樹脂可接合之材料，無論是非導體
材料、導體材料或是會吸收微波之材料皆可以此方式修補，
並得到更佳的接合強度。 
中文關鍵詞： 奈米碳管/環氧樹脂複合膠料、電流加熱、微波加熱 
英 文 摘 要 ：  
英文關鍵詞：  
 
 2 
中 文 摘 要 ：  本研究為兩年期專題研究計畫”以微波加熱奈米碳管製作及修
補纖維強化塑膠複合材料”之成果，主要分為兩大部分，分別作成果報告： 
 
第一部分： 
”Joining fiber-reinforced polymer composites by microwave heating carbon 
nanotubes” 主要探討以三軸滾輪機混合多壁奈米碳管及高溫固化型環氧樹脂來
製作可微波加熱的複合材料接著劑，以微波加熱的方式來達到快速接著以及修補
複合材料的效果。與未添加奈米碳管的環氧樹脂膠比較，添加多壁奈米碳管的環
氧樹脂膠其拉伸強度可以提高約 4.6 %，而楊氏係數可以提高約 6.2 %。此外，
奈米碳管具有優異的微波吸收特性，因此在微波加熱中可將吸收微波的能量轉換
成熱能，形成熱源可均勻地加熱膠料。研究中發現利用微波加熱奈米碳管的方式
相較於傳統加熱方式，可以使接著所需的時間減少為 1/3以下。 
  由重疊剪切測試發現添加多壁奈米碳管可以降低膠層內孔洞大小及阻礙裂
縫成長，因而提高接著的強度。利用傳統加熱的方式，因為多壁奈米碳管的添加
會降低環氧樹脂的交聯密度，而使其接著強度在 1 wt%時有最大值，其後接著強
度反隨碳管含量增加而減少。而利用微波的方式，因其加熱較均勻且不會明顯降
低環氧樹脂的交聯密度，相較於以傳統加熱的方式，不但有較高的接著強度，而
且接著強度繼續隨奈米碳管含量增加至 3 wt%以上。相較於純環氧樹脂 16 MPa 
的接著強度，含 3 wt%奈米碳管膠料的接著強度可提高 56 % 而達 24.9 MPa 。 
  在複合材料修補的實驗中，以三點彎曲試驗量測修補過後複合材料的強度，
發現以微波加熱的方式具有較佳的修補強度，同時增加補片的長度可提高修補強
度，以 20 mm 長的補片修補含 2 mm 深穿越裂縫的 5 mm 彎曲試片，其強度就
可以比原始的複合材料還要來得高。 
 
本部分研究成果已由計畫執行機關清華大學審查通過提出中、美兩國各一件專利
申請。專利申請編號：中華民國-099138068、美國-12960500 
  
 4 
前言及研究目的： 
    建築物、飛機、船艦、人造衛星等工程結構之材料，在經過長時間之使用後，
不可避免地會產生損壞。這些損壞有可能是裂口，或是由於腐蝕、磨損等因素而
造成之材料損耗。而這些損壞極需快速且有效的修補以確保這些建物能夠持續正
常且安全地使用。 
    在損壞的修補中，以鉚釘固定補片於受損處的機械修補方式經常使用在金屬
材料或是玻璃纖維複合材料的修補。除了機械修補方式外，近年來使用膠料黏貼
補片的膠合修補方式日見普遍。相較於機械修補，膠合修補應力集中較低、結構
改變較少，且可以避免接合處之水氣滲漏及腐蝕。此外，膠合修補通常成本也較
低，因此在許多情形下，膠合修補是比機械修補更好的選擇。目前所使用的膠合
修補之膠料以環氧樹脂為主，而環氧樹脂之接合需要一段固化的時間，而且高強
度的環氧樹脂往往需要更高的固化溫度及更長的時間。一般固化時多是以高溫爐、
加熱板或加熱毯作為加熱環氧樹脂之設備。這種方式的能量主要是由被接合材料
表面傳導至中間之環氧樹脂膠料，因此會有加熱不平均而且大部分的能量並非用
於固化膠料而耗時、耗能的缺點。因此極需發展製程簡單、設備成本較低且節省
能源的加熱固化方式。 
    奈米碳管具有可導電的性質，而且能夠吸收微波而提高溫度。因此若將奈米
碳管摻入環氧樹脂膠料中，利用上述的兩種性質，可以直接對奈米碳管-環氧樹
脂的複合膠料加熱。便能節省外部加熱所需消耗的能源及時間，同時奈米碳管也
可強化環氧樹脂膠料，提升接著的強度。 
    由於本研究有兩個主題，因此本篇報告之文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論
將於各部份描述。  
 6 
I. Introduction 
 
    Fiber reinforced polymer composites exhibit high strength and low density which 
are beneficial in making light-weight structures. In recent years, they have been used 
in many industrial components. For joining composite structures, polymer adhesives 
such as epoxies are commonly used
[1]
. However, there are still some improvements 
needed. Since the adhesives are much weaker than the adherends, it is desired to 
strengthen the adhesives to improve the bonding performance. Carbon nanotubes 
(CNTs) have high Young’s modulus (~1 TPa)[2-3], tensile strength (~200 MPa)[4], and 
large aspect ratio that make nanotubes attractive for reinforcement in epoxy adhesives 
to improve the adhesive properties. Schadler et al.
[5] 
studied the mechanical properties 
of CNTs composites and reported that in MWNTs/epoxy composites, the tensile 
modulus increased from 3.1 GPa to 3.71 GPa on addition of 5 wt% CNTs. Fidelus et 
al.
[6]
 found that for the 0.5 wt% MWNTs in epoxy matrix, 70 % improvement in 
tensile impact strength was obtained. Hsiao et al. used different weight fractions of 
multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWNTs) in epoxy adhesive to bond the graphite 
ﬁbre/epoxy composite adherends, and found that the signiﬁcant enhancement of the 
bonding performance was observed as the weight fraction of carbon nanotubes was 
increased
[7]
. Hence, the addition of CNTs should serve as an excellent reinforcement 
in adhesives, and provide a improvement for bonding performance. Another problem 
of epoxy adhesives is that the curing is often a very time-consuming process. The 
conventional curing is done by applying heat through heating blankets or lamps
[8]
. 
These methods are inefficient since considerable heat is lost to the surrounding 
environment. Microwave radiation provides a means for rapid and localized heating. 
However, for neat epoxy, the efficiency of absorbing microwave radiation is very low. 
To facilitate the microwave heating of the epoxy adhesive, microwave absorbents 
such as carbon black, metal particles, or metal fibers, were added to the adhesive to 
 8 
head speed of 13 mm/min.  
The fracture suface was examined with a field-emission scanning electron 
microscopy (FE-SEM, JEOL-6500F), and the glass transition temperature of the 
conventional and microwave cured samples were analyzed by DSC with a heating rate 
of 10 °C/min. The curing condition of conventional curing samples is 170 °C for 30 
minutes, and the microwave curing samples is 170 °C for 10 minutes. 
 
III. Results and discussion 
 
    The curing time of the adhesives can be determined when bonding strength of 
single lap shear test becomes stable. Figure 3 (a) and (b) showed the bonding strength 
of conventional cured samples reached a stable value in 30 minutes at 150 °C and in 
25 minutes at 170 °C. Figure 4 shows that the bonding strength of adhesive reached a 
stable value in 8 minutes at 170 °C by microwave heating. It was found that at 150 °C 
and 170 °C, the curing was completed in 25 and 20 minutes, respectively. Curing at a 
higher temperature does require less curing time. However, to reduce curing time by 
increasing temperature is limited by the temperature which could damage the polymer. 
Therefore, it is not practical to shorten curing time by increasing temperature. The 
curing time by microwave heating was shortened to just 1/3 of that by conventional 
heating. Since by microwave heating, the well dispersed MWNTs act as the heat 
source for curing, more uniform and volumetric heating of MWNTs filled adhesive is 
achieved. In this way, the curing time could be reduced from 25 - 30 minutes to just a 
few minutes. 
Figure 5 compared the bonding strengths of specimens cured by conventional and 
microwave at 170 °C. The bonding strength of adhesive which contained MWNTs 
was higher than neat epoxy adhesive. The bonding strength increased from 16 MPa 
for neat epoxy to 22.2 MPa for 1 wt% MWNTs addition (an increase of 38 %).  The 
 10 
adhesive material was released from the bulk into the surrounding space. Since the 
fragments formed either by the dissociation of the additives or in the curing reaction 
are small (i.e. volatile) and have very affinity with the epoxy resin, both their 
diffusivity and solubility are high in the epoxy resin. So, they have very high 
permeability (the product of diffusivity and solubility) in the epoxy resin. As formed, 
they can easily go through the epoxy resin matrix and released into the surrounding 
space from the uncovered surfaces. In contrast, the air bubbles trapped in the process 
of mixing or filling the adhesives into the mold can only be removed by float through 
the adhesives with buoyancy. However, the trapped air bubbles can be largely 
removed by pre-curing vacuum treatment but the volatile gas evolved in curing 
process is unavoidable and if not released from the uncovered surfaces, voids will 
form. In the process of adhesive bonding, the release of gas evolved in curing process 
is limited by the materials to be bonded and the formation of voids is unavoidable. To 
have better mechanical properties, it is desirable to have the void size reduced and 
uniformly distributed.  
Figure 10 indicated that when the content of MWNTs increased the voids size 
deceased. The voids formed by the gas evolvement during curing process. As the 
viscosity of the adhesive increased with the content of MWNTs, the flow of adhesive 
and so the coalescence of voids became more difficult, so the size of voids deceased. 
For microwave curing, the smaller voids size formed than that with conventional 
curing, because microwave heating is more uniform than conventional heating, the 
more uniform volume shrinkage and more nucleated site for the gas production made 
the smaller void size and thus higher bonding strength of microwave cured samples. 
Therefore, enhancement of bonding strength might due both to MWNTs 
reinforcement and the decease of voids size.  
However, by conventional curing the bonding strength decrease when the content of 
MWNTs went over 1 wt%. This can be attributed to the lower cross-link density of 
 12 
In the process of adhesive bonding, the release of gas evolved in curing process is 
limited by the materials to be bonded and the formation of voids is unavoidable. The 
addition of MWNTs can reduce the voids size. For conventional heating, 38 % 
increase of the bonding strength was observed for 1 wt% MWNTs addition. However, 
the addition of MWNTs also significantly disrupted the cross-link of polymer chains 
and the adhesive bonding was decreased with increasing the content of MWNTs over 
1 wt%. For microwave heating, the disruption effect of MWNTs on the cross-link 
density is largely reduced which resulted in the increase of the bonding strength with 
increasing the content of MWNTs up to 3 wt%. 56 % increase of the bonding strength 
from 16 MPa for neat epoxy to 24.9 MPa for 3 wt% MWNTs addition was observed. 
 
 
References 
 
[1] Baldan A, 2004 J. mater. Scie. 1 39 
[2] Treacy M M J, Ebbesen T W and Gibson J M 1996 Nature 381 678 
[3] Krishnan A, Dujardin E, Ebbesen T W, Yianilos P N and Treacy M M J 1998 Physical 
Review B 58 14013 
[4] Yu M F, Lourie O, Dyer M J, Moloni K, Kelly T F, Ruoff R S 2000 Science 287 673  
[5] Schadler L S, Giannaris S C and Ajayana P M 1998 Appl. Phys. Lett. 73 3824 
[6] Fidelus J D, Wiesel E, Gojny F H and Wagner H D 2005 Compos. Part A 36 1555  
[7] Hsiao K T, Alms J and Advani S G 2003 Nanotechnology 14 791 
[8] Tay T E, Fink B K, Mcknight S H, Yarlagadda S and Gillespie J W 1990 J. Compos. 
Mater. 33 17 
[9] Soesatyo B, Blicblau A S and Siores E 2000 Int. J. Adhes. Adhes 20 489 
[10] Wang C S 1986 U.S. Patent 4, 626, 642 
[11] Imholt T J, Dyke C A and Hasslacher B 2003 Chem. of Mater. 15 3969 
 14 
Figures 
Figure 1. The three roll mill for dispersing MWNTs. 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Single lap shear test samples. 
 
  
 16 
Figure 5. Bonding strength of conventional and microwave cured samples. The curing 
temperature was 170 °C. 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Fracture surfaces of single lap shear test samples. Left: conventional cured 
samples ; Right: microwave cured samples. (a) 0.5 wt% MWNTs, (b) 1 
wt% MWNTs, (c) 2 wt% MWNTs, (d) 3 wt% MWNTs. 
 
 
 
 18 
Figure 8. (a) A schematic of the voids forming in the adhesive. (b) OM image of voids 
in adhesive layer (scale bar: 100 um). (c) SEM image of fracture surface 
(50X) (scale bar: 100 um). (d) (1000X) (scale bar: 10 um). (e) Well bonding 
area (5000X) (scale bar: 1 um). (f) Poor bonding area (5000X) (scale bar: 1 
um). 
(a)                                                      (b) 
         
 
(c)                                                       (d) 
   
 
(e)                                                       (f) 
   
  
 20 
Figure 11. DSC curves showing Tg of conventional and microwave cured samples. 
(C : conventional curing ; M : microwave curing ; 0-3 : weight percentage of 
MWNTs.) 
 
Table 2. Glass transition temperature of conventional cured samples and microwave 
cured samples. 
 
 
  
 22 
I. Introduction: 
Since the discovery of CNTs by doctor Iijima in 1991 [1], the extraordinary 
characteristic of CNTs, including: mechanical strength [2~4], electrical properties 
[5~13], heat conducting properties [13~17] are studied by many research groups. 
Based on the extremely high aspect ratio and Young’s modulus of CNTs, 
CNTs/polymer composites are very promising new materials and have been 
extensively studied. CNTs/polymer composites can not only used as building 
structures but also as adhesives. 
Through a long time use, damages of materials are inevitable in engineering 
structures such as buildings, vehicles, airplanes, artificial satellite and so on. The 
damages could be in the forms of cracks or loss of material by corrosion, wear or any 
other mechanisms. It is desirable to repair the damages rapidly to insure the 
continuous safe use of the constructions.  
In repair of damaged parts, either mechanical repair with rivet joint or bonding 
repair with repairing pads are generally applied [18]. The mechanical repair with rivet 
joint is widely used for metal components and fiber reinforced plastic (FRP) parts. 
Compare to mechanical repairing, bonding repair with usage of adhesives has many 
advantages. It causes less shape change on the repaired structure. It results in lower 
stress concentration. It lowers the possibility of leakage and corrosion. In addition to 
all these, it needs relatively low cost in material and equipments. Therefore, bonding 
repair with the use of adhesives become more attractive in repair of damaged parts. 
Epoxy resin is the most generally used adhesive which requires adequate curing to get 
hardened.  High strength epoxy resins usually need to be cured at high temperature 
for an extended time. Conventionally, heat is provided by a furnace, a heating plate or 
a heating blanket. Since in such heating processes, the heat is conducted from the 
surface to the interior of the material, the heating of the adhesive is not uniform, and 
 24 
to be bonded were purchased from Da Teh Company in Hsin-Chu, Taiwan. The epoxy 
adhesive prepared by Everwide Chemical Company is a single part high curing 
temperature epoxy. It contains a DGEBA type epoxy resin, a curing agent, and a 
catalyst. The Epoxy resin NPEL-128E is supplied by Nan Ya plastics Corporation, the 
curing agent DYHARD 100S is supplied by Degussa Company, and the catalyst 
EZ-20 is supplied by Skw Chemicals Incorporation 
 
2.2 The fabrication of the buckypaper-epoxy adhesive plaster patches and the 
curing process for non-conductive materials 
In this work, the CNT membrane (buckypaper) was formed by 
vacuum-filtration method [26]. 0.4 g/l CNT powder and 20 g/l SDS dispersion agent 
were mixed in DI water. Then the CNT dispersed mixture was vacuum-filtrated 
through a nylon filter to form a 30 mm diameter round piece of CNT buckypaper 
which weighted about 0.02 g and has a thickness of 70 μm. The buckypaper is cut into 
10 mm wide strips. Buckypaper-epoxy adhesive plaster patches were formed by 
spreading epoxy containing 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 3 wt% CNT on the buckypaper strips and 
getting the epoxy soaked through them by vacuum infiltration.  Without the help of 
vacuum, air bubbles were observed in the buckypaper which is detrimental to the 
strength of the adhesive plaster patches. 
When bonding non-conductive materials such as FRP or ceramics, a piece of the 
buckypaper-epoxy adhesive plaster patch was put between the plates to be bonded. 
The electrodes of a power supplier were connected to the two ends of the CNT 
buckypaper.  Voltage and current were controlled to keep the temperature of epoxy 
stabled at around 150 ˚C for 20 ~ 30 minutes for curing. For example, bonding with 
an adhesive plaster which has a resistance of 35.5 Ω, the initial voltage is set as 8 V to 
 26 
connected to each side of the film as the leads. When a voltage was applied on the 
leads of the resin film, a narrow path of overheating was observed in the film which 
breaks the upper glass while the rest part of the resin still left uncured.  
It is impossible to cure a piece of CNT/epoxy resin adhesive film by applying an 
electric voltage directly unless the detrimental positive feedback effect can be avoided.  
The authors tried many ways to overcome the detrimental positive feedback effect and 
heat the epoxy resin film evenly. Finally, a practice was developed that not only can 
cure a piece of CNT/epoxy resin adhesive film by applying an electric voltage directly 
but also largely increase the resulted bonding strength. In the practice 
buckypaper-epoxy adhesive plaster patches were used in which the CNT buckypaper 
served for heating and strengthening of the epoxy. 
By applying appropriate electric power to a buckypaper, the epoxy covered over 
it can be heated in a few minute. For example, with a 1 x 1 cm
2
 buckypaper-epoxy 
adhesive plaster patch, the epoxy can be heated to 150 ˚C in 8 minutes when a power 
of 3.76 W is applied. The time can be further reduced to 4 minutes if the power 
applied is increased to 4.58 W. To cure the epoxy completely, a holding time of about 
20 minutes at the curing temperature is needed.  So, by using the buckypaper-epoxy 
adhesive plaster patches and electrical heating method, the epoxy can be fully cured in 
less than 25 minutes which is shorter than that needed by either conventional heating 
for 60 minutes or microwave heating for 30 minutes. Since almost all the applied 
electrical energy was used in curing, this process consumes less energy than any other 
heating process used before. It is estimated that to cure a 1 cm x 1 cm x 110 μm 
buckypaper-epoxy adhesive plaster patch in this work, the energy needed in bonding 
is less than 7.5 K Joule. 
Another advantage of the electrical heating method is that in bonding FRP the 
bonding strength can be increased over that by conventional or microwave heating 
 28 
the CNTs in the resin can be heated by the absorption of microwave radiation. When 
heated, the CNTs in the adhesive that contacting the FRP can roughen the surface of 
FRP while curing the epoxy, thus make better bonding between the resin and the FRP. 
In contrast, in the electrical heating, only the buckypaper generated heat. The major 
role of CNTs in the epoxy is providing paths of better heat transfer and strengthening 
the epoxy adhesive itself.  The presence of CNTs at the interface will reduce the 
contact area between the resin and the FRP that results in lower interface strength. 
To study the curing structure of the resin with 0.5 wt% CNT, transparent glass 
plates are used as the bonded parts. By doing so, the cured resin between two surfaces 
can be observed directly by an optical microscope. The curing structure of the resin 
are showed in figure 3-5, 3-6, and 3-7 for the 0.5 wt% CNT without and with 
buckypaper cured by conventional furnace curing and electrical cured with 
buckypaper, respectively. The area fraction of voids for each condition is listed in 
table 1. It is evident that the voids in the specimen cured by electrical heating with 
buckypaper have much smaller size and total area fraction compared to its 
counterparts.  Evident gas liberation from the edge of the joint was noticed when it 
was cured by electrical heating with buckypaper.  This can be understood since that 
by electrical heating with buckypaper, the epoxy was heated and cured from the center 
and the gas bubbles formed during curing can escape more easily through its yet 
uncured part.  In contrast, by conventional furnace curing, the epoxy was heated and 
cured from periphery to the center part that prevents the escape of gas bubbles formed 
during curing.  
 
 
 
 30 
V. Acknowledgement:  
This work was supported by the National Science Council, Republic of China 
(Taiwan), under grant 98-2221-E-007-039-MY2.  
  
 32 
Fig 3-3. (A) The fracture surface of GFRP samples bonded with buckypaper and 0.5 
wt% CNTs-epoxy, cured by electrical heating and (B) the area of red circle in 
(A) 
  
 
Fig 3-4. The fracture surface of GFRP samples bonded with buckypaper and 0.5 wt% 
CNTs-epoxy, cured by electrical heating 
 
 
  
 34 
Reference: 
[1] S. Ijima (1991), Helical microtubules of graphitic carbon. Nature, 354,56 
[2] M. M. J. Treacy, T. W. Ebbesen and J. M. Gibson (1996), Exceptionally high 
Young's modulus observed for individual carbon nanotubes. Nature, 381, 
678-680  
[3] Min-Feng Yu, Bradley S. Files, Sivaram Arepalli, Rodney S. Ruoff, Tensile 
Loading of Ropes of Single Wall Carbon Nanotubes and their Mechanical 
Properites. Physical Review Letters, Vol.84 No. 24, 5552-5555 
[4] M. F. Yu, O. Lourie, M. J. Dyer, K. Moloni, T. F. Kelly and R.S. Ruoff (2000), 
Strength and breaking mechanism of multiwalled Carbon nanotubes under tensile 
Load. Science, 287,673  
[5] Mei Zhang, Shaoli Fang, Anvar A. Zakhidov, Sergey B. Lee, Ali E. Aliev, 
Christopher D. Williams, Ken R. Atkinson, Ray H. Baughman (2005), Strong, 
Transparent, Multifunctional, Carbon Nanotube Sheets. Science, 309, 1215, 
[6] Peng Liu, Liang Liu, Yang Wei, Kai Liu, Zhuo Chen, Kaili Jiang, Qunqing Li, 
Shoushan Fan (2009), Fast High-Temperature Response of Carbon Nanotube 
Film and Its Application as an Incandescent Display. Advanced Materials, 21, 
3563-3566 
[7] Noriaki Hamada, Shin-ichi Sawada, Atsushi Oshiyama (1992), New 
One-Dimensional Conductors: Graphitic Microtubules. Physical Review Letters, 
Vol. 68 No. 10, 1579-1581 
[8] T.W. Ebbesen, H.J. Lezec, H. Hiura, J.W. Bennett, H.F. Ghaemi, T.Thio (1996), 
Electrical conductivity of individual carbon nanotubes. Nature, 382,54-56 
[9] J. Appenzeller, R. Martel, P. Avouris (2001), Optimized contact configuration for 
the study of transport phenomena in ropes of single-wall carbon nanotubes. 
Applied Physic Letters, 78, 3313-3315 
[10] P. Mahanandia, K.K. Nanda (2008), Controllable resistance and temperature 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                             99年 11月 4 日 
報告人姓名  
張   士   欽 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
清華大學 
教    授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
99年 10月 17日至 10月 21
日    美國休士頓 
本會核定 
補助文號 
計畫編號
NSC98-2221-E-007-039-MY2 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2010材料科學與技術國際會議 
 (英文)Materials Science & Technology 2010 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)以微波加熱製作奈米碳管強化聚合物複合材料 
(英文) The fabrication of Carbon Nanotubes Reinforced Polymer Composites by 
Microwave Heating 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
附
件
三 
表 Y04 2 
我的論文” 以微波加熱製作奈米碳管強化聚合物複合材料”” The 
fabrication of Carbon Nanotubes Reinforced Polymer Composites by 
Microwave Heating”是國科會” 以微波加熱奈米碳管製作及修補纖維強化塑
膠複合材料”專題研究之成果，以三軸滾輪滾壓剪變方式可以簡單的將奈米碳
管均勻混合於環氧樹脂中，以微波加熱方式可以快速的將混合奈米碳管的環氧
樹脂固化，造成非常強的接合，能快速又省能的修補纖維強化塑膠複合材料，
不但大幅降低修補纖維強化塑膠複合材料的時間及費用成本，更大幅提高了修
補纖維強化塑膠複合材料的強度。在會議中頗受國際同行專家重視，在相互討
論中也有了許多收穫。 
在會議期間，我除了主要參加的複合及奈米複合輕材料研討議程場次外，
還到其他與個人研究與教學有關的場次聽講。由於奈米科技範圍很廣，而我研
究相關的主要在奈米碳管的微/奈米元件製程與奈米材料力學與奈米機械性質
測試方面，因此在比較無關的議題發表時，我就先到其他與個人研究與教學有
關的場次(主要是破裂力學、損壞分析、奈米機械性質測試等)聽講。幾天下來，
聽了不少新的奈米機械性質測試方面的新資訊，對個人未來研究與教學都有相
當助益，真是收穫良多。 
除了參與議程外，休息時還抽空參觀展示場，搜集了一些最新的會議與設
備的資料，買了 ASM 所出的鐵二元合金相圖與銅二元合金相圖兩大本書，及多
本破裂力學、損壞分析、奈米機械性質測試等相關期刊，滿載而歸。 
 
表 Y04 4 
presentations 
4.ASM, Phase diagrams of binary copper alloys 
5.ASM, Phase diagrams of binary Iron alloys 
6. Materials Matters: Nanomaterials for energy and electronics 
7. Materials Matters: Advanced Ceramics Materials and application 
8. Materials Matters: Alternative energy generation and storage 
9. Electronic device Failure Analysis 
表 Y04 6 
2011材料科學與技術國際會議報告 
 
清華大學教授  張   士   欽 
 
一、參加會議經過 
材料科學與技術國際會議是美國 TMS 礦冶、金屬、材料學會與鋼鐵學會每
年舉辦的最重要的國際學術會議之一。今年共有歐美日中等世界各國一千五百
多位學者參加，在九十多個議程中發表一千多篇最新的研究成果。並同時有百
餘家的相關廠商及研究機構，在材料展示會展示其最新的商品及成果。 
本人得到國科會計畫” 以微波加熱奈米碳管製作及修補纖維強化塑膠複
合材料”及清華大學的補助於 10月 14日赴美，經舊金山於 10月 16日抵達俄
亥俄州哥倫布市。抵達後即驅車到會場辦理註冊，領取資料。這次我有兩篇論
文發表：1. "An innovative method of adhesive bonding by direct application 
of electrical current to carbon nanotube (CNT) film infiltrated with 
epoxy adhesives" 在 Joining of Advanced and Specialty Materials (JASM XIII) 
symposium發表；2. "The Fabrication and Characterization of Carbon 
Nanotube Sponge with Controllable Pore Size" 在 Professor K. K. Chawla 
Honorary Symposium on Fibers, Foams and Composites: Science and 
Engineering發表。 
10月 17日星期一清早由旅館出發到會場，七點開始作者早餐與議程主席
表 Y04 8 
的環氧樹脂固化，不但大幅降低修補纖維強化塑膠複合材料的時間及費用成
本，大幅提高了修補纖維強化塑膠複合材料的強度，更重要的是不需要昂貴複
雜的設備，甚至可以在太空中作修補，研究之成果已提出了四項專利申請。在
會議中頗受國際同行專家重視，在相互討論中也有了許多收穫。加拿大
University of Waterloo ，Mechanical and Mechatronics Engineering 系的 Anming 
Hu 教授帶了多位學生與會，特別來找我希望未來合作，我介紹他與台大的高振
宏教授認識，返台後又收到 Hu 教授的 email，未來當能互相合作。 
在會議期間，我除了主要參加的 Joining of Advanced and Specialty 
Materials (JASM XIII)研討議程場次外，還到其他與個人研究與教學有關的場
次聽講。由於奈米科技範圍很廣，而我研究相關的主要在奈米碳管的微/奈米元
件製程與奈米材料力學與奈米機械性質測試方面，因此在比較無關的議題發表
時，我就先到其他與個人研究與教學有關的場次(主要是破裂力學、損壞分析、
奈米機械性質測試等)聽講。幾天下來，聽了不少新的奈米機械性質測試方面的
新資訊，對個人未來研究與教學都有相當助益，真是收穫良多。 
除了參與議程外，休息時還抽空參觀展示場，搜集了一些最新的會議與設
備的資料。 
 
二、與會心得 
  科學的研究，在眾多研究者參與下，可以說是日新月異．經常都有新的技
巧，新的成果出現，資訊的交換取得成了研究人員保持其研究得與世界同步最
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/01/18
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以微波加熱奈米碳管製作及修補纖維強化塑膠複合材料
計畫主持人: 張士欽
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-007-039-MY2 學門領域: 非鐵合金與複合材料 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 奈米碳管複合式環氧樹脂黏著劑及其使用方法
(英文) COMPLEX EPOXY RESIN ADHESIVE ADDED WITH CARBON NANOTUBES 
AND METHOD OF USING THE SAME 
成果歸屬機構
國立清華大學 發明人
(創作人)
張士欽,張存續,邱子桓,陳宗漢
技術說明
(中文) 本發明係一種添加有奈米碳管的複合式環氧樹脂黏著劑，此複合式環氧樹脂黏著
劑可預先製備後於室溫儲存，在其使用時並不需要進行預熱步驟，僅需將均勻混
合有奈米碳管和環氧樹脂的複合式環氧樹脂黏著劑塗抹於待黏著處，並藉由微波
加熱來完成固化接著，便可達到超越單純環氧樹脂的強化固化性質和減少固化時
間的雙重目的。申請專利範圍： 
1.一種奈米碳管複合式環氧樹脂黏著劑，係包括有： 
奈米碳管，佔總重0.3-5%的重量百分比；及 
已添加硬化劑之高溫固化型環氧樹脂，佔總重95-99.7%的重量百分比。 
2.一種奈米碳管複合式環氧樹脂黏著劑的使用方法，係包括有下列步驟： 
塗料：係將一含有總重0.3-5%重量百分比奈米碳管的複合式環氧樹脂黏著劑塗抹
於二物體待黏著面之間； 
加熱：於塗抹該複合式環氧樹脂黏著劑處進行微波加熱交聯固化一段時間。 
3.如申請專利範圍第2項所述的使用方法，其中該加熱步驟的加熱時間少於20分
鐘。 
4.如申請專利範圍第2項所述的使用方法，其中該複合式環氧樹脂係一已添加硬
化劑之高溫固化型環氧樹脂。 
(英文) The present invention relates to a complex epoxy resin adhesive added with carbon 
nanotubes and a method of using the adhesive, and more particularly to a complex epoxy 
resin adhesive added with carbon nanotubes and a method of using a microwave heating 
method to heat the adhesive in order to expedite curing the adhesive. 
產業別
機械製造業；電機及電子機械器材業；育樂用品製造業；運輸工具製造業；其他工業製
品製造業
技術/產品應用範圍
奈米碳管/環氧樹脂複合材料已被廣泛應用於塗料、電絕緣材料、印刷電路積層板和電子
封裝材料、土木和建築材料、接著劑以及航太工業等用途上。本發明在環氧樹脂中添加
奈米碳管，輔以微波加熱固化接著的技術手段，較傳統加熱接合的方式增進節省接著固
化所需時間、節省能源、接合強度提升等功效；可使用於例如玻璃、高分子複合材料、
陶瓷等材料的接著及修補，例如航空器保養維修等。本發明對於電子業、光電業、航空
業等，均極具產業上利用價值。
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
本發明在環氧樹脂中添加奈米碳管，輔以微波加熱固化接著的技術手段，較傳統加熱接
合的方式增進節省接著固化所需時間、節省能源、接合強度提升等功效；可使用於例如
玻璃、高分子複合材料、陶瓷等材料的接著及修補，例如航空器保養維修等。本發明對
於電子業、光電業、航空業等，均極具產業上利用價值。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
