thentication. After verifying the possibly tampered audio-
signal with RSA signature scheme [11], we can clearly and
accurately determine the sections of audio-signal were tam-
pered. Additionally, it can be accomplished without bring-
ing in the original audio-signal while detecting and verify-
ing the digital signature.
2. The bases of the proposed method
The frequency between 20Hz and 20KHz can be
heard. We use the property to embed the signature in low
frequency area of 1–20Hz. As such, the embedded signa-
ture does not affect the audio-signal quality.
The Absolute Threshold of Hearing is the minimal per-
ceptible curve of human auditory system in quiet. The Fig-
ure 1 shows the curve for a regular adult [2, 14]. Sound
Pressure Level(SPL)is the strength of volume [14], dB is
the function unit representing the minimal strength of vol-
ume under different frequencies. The frequency band under
the curve, as B, is imperceptible, but that above the curve,
as A, can be heard. Because the sound with volume under
the curve can not be heard, those sounds could be negligi-
ble while encoding. That is the basic principle of perceptual
encoding [4].
2.1. The frequency and temporal masking
properties
The research on audio-psychology sums up the prop-
erties of human hearing system: variety of hearing sen-
sitivity, frequency masking of hearing in frequency spec-
trum, and temporal masking of hearing. Using the mask-
ing threshold curve [1, 4], we can determine the accept-
ably maximal quantification error in each sub-band to es-
cape from hearing the distorted parts, caused by quantifica-
tion.
The variety of hearing sensitivity reveals the different
perception and sensibility of ears to various frequencies as
Figure 1. The sensitivity is different because of different
persons and ages.
The frequency masking of hearing in frequency spec-
trum reveals the audio-signal with larger SPL causes mask-
ing effect on those with similar frequency. The louder voice
will mask the lower one.
The temporal masking of hearing(or non-simultaneous
masking [2]) reveals the temporal masking effect to hu-
man’s hearing. If two sounds give off in a short period of
time, no matter the order of them, the sound with bigger
SPL will mask those with smaller SPL.
These properties are applied on sound encoding and de-
coding. The objective of audio-signal encoding is using the
most efficient bit-rate to represent original audio-signal. Ex-
Figure 1. Absolute Threshold of Hearing for
a regular adult
Figure 2. Absolute Threshold of Hearing and
masking area for different
frequencies
periments show the method is quite efficient in audio-signal
encoding.
2.2. Analysis of embedding frequency
Mostly, the high frequency area after encoded could
seriously be destroyed or deleted, because the existence of
the energy of high frequency is constrained by the frequency
samples and the bit-rate. Thus, it is infeasible to conceal a
signature in the high frequency area.
The frequency in high frequency area is less percepti-
ble to human’s ears and the high frequency is much easily
masked, see Figure 2 [8, 13]. Consequently, with a fixed
bit-rate, the sub-band in high frequency area can’t be dis-
tributed more bits. The energy in high frequency area could
easily apt to be deleted, so could the signature.
Because the audio-signal with 1–20Hz is not easily
657
2
In order to enhance the security and prevent the illegal
person from stealing the information of signature, we apply
a key to disperse the sequence of signature values randomly
before we embed the signature into the audio-signal. At
first, the dispersed sequence needs to be transformed into
the amplitude (sine curve) of the corresponding frequency
in time domain. Then, the sequence is embedded to original
audio-signal. The voltage v(t) with amplitude V0 is con-
cerned with sine function of angular frequency ω = 2pif0,
which changes with time t. The formula, for initial phase
angle θ0 at t = 0 is
v(t) = V0 sin(ω0t+ θ0). (1)
In the above equation, each sine curve has a specific fre-
quency, ω0 radian fHz per second. In this example, f also
represents the corresponding position in the sequence of
signature values.
Suppose that B0 is the analyzed frame of original audio-
signal and the length of the frame is the sampling rate of
44.1KHz, we conceal 20 bits per second in the frequency
of 1–20Hz. Let v(t) be sine of frequency f and ρ(f) be
the f -th bit in the sequence of signature values, for f =
1, 2, · · · , 20. The formula of embedding signature value is
defined as:
B0 =
{
B0 + v(t), if ρ(f) = 1
B0 − v(t), if ρ(f) = 0. (2)
In the above equation, we generate the amplitude v(t)
(sine curve) of corresponding frequencies in time domain,
according to the position of signature sequence. For v(t) =
60dB, if ρ(f) = 1, the energy of signature is existed, we
embed the energy of corresponding frequency to original
audio-signal. On the other hand, if ρ(f) = 0, it is without
the energy in the signature, the frequency energy needs to
be deleted; but, we actually do nothing at this moment. Be-
cause we already deleted the energy before embedding the
signature values. The wave shape is shown in Figure 3 after
adding the signature (sine curve) to original audio-signal.
For ρ(f) = 1 and f = 10, the sine curve v(t) of 10Hz
is generated with the frequency energy 60dB, then v(t) is
added to original audio-signal B0. The changed frequency
energy is under the Absolute Threshold of Hearing, it is im-
perceptible.
3.3. Authenticating the signature
To intensify the robustness of the embedded signa-
ture, we duplicate five copies of the signature S, and con-
ceal them in audio-signal. To authenticate the signal in the
future, we can retrieve these five duplicates of signature and
computeM ′ = SemodN , then mutually authenticate them
to determine whether the characteristic M ′ is tampered or
not.
Figure 3. The original audio-signal(above)
and the embedded signal
Let Mi be the five duplicates of characteristic, for i =
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and M0 be the original characteristic. Here, we
propose the non-blind and blind verification methods to ver-
ify the characteristics.
(A) Non-blind verification method:
The signal creator proposed the original characteristic
M0 and compares it with the extracted characteristics
Mi, i = 1, 2, · · · , 5. There are two situations:
(1) If M0 = Mi, i = 1, 2, · · · , 5, the characteristic
values are not tampered at all. The integrity of
the signal is verified.
(2) Otherwise, some or all the characteristic values
are tampered. The signal is not genuine. With
our method, we can find out the partly destroyed
frames through the corrupted characteristic val-
ues.
(B) Blind verification method:
The signal creator directly authenticates the extracted
characteristics Mi, for i = 1, 2, · · · , 5. The results
could be the following:
(1) All the characteristics are identical. All the char-
acteristics are not tampered or forged. The signal
is genuine.
(2) Some but not all the characteristic values are
equal. These corresponding frames of the audio-
signal with different characteristics are tampered.
We can point out the partly destroyed frames.
659
4
are tampered. In addition, our method can conceal multi-
ple duplicates of signature in a audio-signal. The detection
strength is raised, thus, it is more effective to verify the own-
ership of the creator.
4.4. Applying asymmetric signatures
In this paper, the RSA signature scheme is used to
enhance the security of signature and confirm the integrity.
In fact, other asymmetric signature schemes, such as ElGa-
mal’s signature scheme [6], can also be used for detection
and verification signal by performing minor modification.
The digital signature embedded into the audio-signal can
be considered as a watermark that is hidden in an image.
Similarly, methods of the other audio embedding watermark
schemes [5] can also be implemented to our scheme.
5. The conclusions
This paper proposes a digital authentication system
applied on the audio-signal in frequency domain. We con-
ceal a signature into audio-signal in order to verify the own-
ership of this signal and determine whether the signal is
tampered or not. The scheme of implementation is sim-
ple, quick and efficient. Also, the concealed signature does
not influence the original audio-signal quality. On the de-
tection procedure, our method does not rely on the original
signal and can quickly retrieve the signature. The proposed
scheme can also verify the signature, which is signed with
RSA system, in order to verify the ownership and to deter-
mine whether the signal is tampered or not. In addition, we
duplicate five copies of signature and conceal them in the
audio-signal dispersedly. The procedure can not only inten-
sify the robustness of the audio-signal, but also enhance the
correctness of verification. Consequently, using asymmet-
ric signature for authentication is helpful to protect the right
of audio-signal creator. This method is definite and precise
to ensure the verification. It is believed that the proposed
method is much more secure and credible for verifying the
copyright and the ownership of the audio-signal.
References
[1] E. Ambikairajah, AG Davis, and W. Wong, “Audi-
tory masking and MPEG-1 audio compression,” IEE
Electronics & Communication Engineering Joural,
Vol.9, No.4, pp.165–175, Aug. 1997.
[2] D. Arfib, F. Keiler, and U. Zoler, “Time-frequency
processing,” in DAFX: Digital audio effects, John
Wiley and sons, pp. 237–297, 2002.
[3] P. Bassia, I. Pitas, and N. Nikolaidis, “Robust audio
watermarking in the time domain,” IEEE Trans. Mul-
timedia, 3(2): pp. 232–241, 2001.
[4] K. Brandenburg and H. Popp, “An introduction to
MPEG Layer-3,” Fraunhofer Institut fur Integri-
erte Schaltungen (IIS): EBU Technical Review, June
2000.
[5] L. Cai and J. Zhao, “Evaluation of speech quality us-
ing digital watermarking,” IEICE Electroics Express,
Vol. 1, No. 13, pp. 380–385, Oct. 2004.
[6] T. ElGamal, “A public key cryptosystem and a sig-
nature scheme bassed on discrete logarithms,” IEEE
Trans. Inf. Theory, Vol. IT-31, No. 4, pp. 469–472,
1985.
[7] W. N. Lie, and L. C. Chang, “Robust and high-
quality time-domain audio watermarking subject to
psycho-acoustic masking,” IEEE International Sym-
posium on Circuits and Systems, Vol. 2, pp. 45–48,
2001.
[8] T. Painter, “Perceptual coding of digital audio,” Pro-
ceedings of IEEE, Vol. 88, No. 4, April 2000.
[9] D. Pan, “A tutorial on MPEG-audio compression,”
IEEE Multimedia, Vol.2, No. 2, pp. 60–74, 1995.
[10] C. I. Podichuk and E. J. Delp, “Digital watermarking:
Algorithms and applications,” IEEE Signal Process-
ing Magazine, Vol. 14, No. 4, pp. 36–46, 2001.
[11] R. L. Rivest, A. Shamir, and L. Adleman, “A method
for obtaining digital signatures and public-key cryp-
tosystems,” Comm. Acm, Vol. 21(2), pp. 120–126,
1978.
[12] J. W. Seok and J. W. Hong, “Audio watermarking for
copyright protection of digit audio data,” Electronics
Letters, Vol.37, Issue. 1, pp. 60–61, Jan. 2001.
[13] C. T. Wang, T. S. Chen and C. M. Hsu, “A robust
watermarking system bBased on the properties of
low frequency in perceptual audio coding,” IEICE
Transaction on Fundamentals, Vol. E87-A, No. 8,
pp. 2152–2159, Aug. 2004.
[14] E. Zwicker and H. Fastl, “Psychoacoutics facts and
models,” Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 1990.
661
6
