manipulate the collision outcomes, while not changing 
much the constituent fluid properties, is presented. 
 
  II
Abstract 
The transition boundaries of various regimes characterizing the impact outcomes of a droplet 
upon a liquid layer of small thickness were investigated experimentally. With careful control 
of film thickness, the onset of these regimes in terms of a Weber number (We), which 
expresses the ratio between the droplet inertia and surface force, specifically when the layer 
depth is smaller than the droplet diameter, has been further clarified, as compared to prior 
studies. Several turning, non-monotonic trends between We and the film thickness 
normalized by the droplet diameter, H, were thus identified as H d 1. Furthermore, by adding 
various percentages of glycerine, the effects of liquid viscosity were revealed, which 
inhibited disintegration into secondary droplets. We also added surfactant to change the 
surface tension, leading to further complication of the collision outcome that would be related 
to the interaction between the crater and the bottom surface. The material effect of the solid 
surface was hence studied for further demonstration of such interplays. The results showed 
that increasing viscosity would essentially delay the occurrence of these transitions whereas 
reducing surface tension might encourage the onset. Therefore a possibility of using additives 
to manipulate the collision outcomes, while not changing much the constituent fluid 
properties, is presented. 
 
Keywords: droplet collision, surfactant, splashing, thin liquid film, high-speed droplet 
 
本計畫承續實驗室先前於液滴碰撞的研究，目前已發展的技術，使我們在高韋伯數區域
對雙液滴及液滴液面之碰撞發現新的現象，在中低韋伯數亦建立通用的壓電晶片液滴產
生技術，有助於多相流體物理的基礎結構探討，且可應用至相關工程與科學領域。在本
計畫中，除繼續利用已發展技術作進一步研究，特別的，加入界面活性劑以改變表面張
力，我們初步發現此因素可改變碰撞的特徵結果，可因此用來控制液面間的交互作用，
並發展相關前瞻技術。另一發展重點為數值分析方法與其應用，發展可以進階分析液滴
撞擊的方法，且將其平行化以加速計算過程；期中報告敘述計算結合實驗分析雙液滴碰
撞時的過程與物理機制，此篇期末報告（已發表於Journal of Colloid and Interface Science 
352, p. 186 – 193, 2010）以單液滴撞擊薄液層為主題，加入界面活性劑改變表面張力或
甘油變化黏度，探討因液體特性造成的碰撞結構變化，且由於液層薄所導致的底部結構
效應，提出利用少量添加劑操作液滴碰撞的可能性。 
 
關鍵字：液滴碰撞、界面活性劑、面追蹤法、薄液膜、高速液滴 
  2
The experimental setup is basically the same as that described in Ref. [15] and 
schematically shown in Fig. 1, in which a liquid jet with adjustable speed is generated by the 
thrust of a gas cylinder driven by a compressor, which is equipped with a movable piston 
linked to two liquid cylinders downstream. Due to compression, the liquid within these 
smaller cylinders was injected out. The jet, passing through the filters and eventually 
squeezed out of a nozzle with a given exit diameter of 0.45 mm, was continuously discharged 
into a chamber that was made of Plexiglas walls and used to isolate the influence of ambient 
air. The high-speed jet was then cut by a knife edge on a rotating disk to form a separated 
mass. With proper adjustment of the rotation speed of the disk and upstream pressure, a 
stable droplet moving at a high speed as desired can be established before hitting the target 
plate. The maximum speed that could be attained by a single droplet with nearly spherical 
and stable shape was about 23 m/s for water. This was limited by the necessary distance for 
relaxation of initially induced oscillations of the droplet while accounting for the deceleration 
due to viscous drag of the ambience, but not in an oscillating manner as in other studies 
which might yield uncertain effect of internal flow.  
C
M
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17 18 19
 
Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of the experimental setup with components 1: computer, 2:
programmable power supply, 3: motor, 4: rotating disk with cutting edge, 5: nozzle, 6:
porous metal filter, 7: non-return valves, 8: linear scale and digital counter, 9: digital
readout, 10: liquid cylinders, 11: linkage and pistons, 12: gas cylinder, 13: shunt, 14:
pressure gauge, 15: liquid supply vessel, 16: air compressor, 17: LED-based illuminator, 18:
glass tank with immersed target plate, and 19: high-speed digital camera. 
  4
Various liquid properties were obtained by addition of glycerine or surfactant in water, 
as shown in Table 1. The density was derived from the volume and the weight of the fluid, 
which was measured by an electronic scale. The surface tension was evaluated by a 
tensiometer (Kibron EZ-Pi) and the viscosity was estimated by a viscometer (Brookfield 
DV-E). The temperature in the test environment was between 23 and 26 C and was usually 
kept around 25 C. The surfactant, surflon (S-131), produced by AGC Seimi Chemical Co., 
LTD., with a purity of 30%, is a fluorochemical surface acting agent which is composed of 
perfluoroalkyl betaine. This product possesses many excellent attributes not possible for 
hydrocarbon-based surfactants, such as substantial reduction of surface tension with a small 
quantity added. While its viscosity was 8.8 cP (10-3 Pas), the addition of very little amount 
did not significantly change the viscosity of its water solution. We used two aqueous 
solutions, which had surface tensions of 32.2 and 16.1 mN/m (10-3 N/m), respectively, and 
were designated as ST32 and ST16. The concentrations of surfactant in weight percentage 
were about 0.006 % and 0.05 % for ST32 and ST16, respectively. 
 
 
Density,  
(kg/m3) 
Viscosity,   
(10-3 Pas) 
Surface tension,  
(10-3 N/m) 
Water 997.1 1.01 72.8 
Glycerite 50%wt 1145 5.75 68.1 
Glycerite 70%wt 1188 21.2 66.3 
ST32 997.1 1.01 32.2 
ST16 997.1 1.01 16.1 
Table 1. Properties of test liquids. 
 
2.4. Experimental visualization 
The sequential pictures were recorded by a high-speed CMOS digital camera 
(X-StreamTM Vision, XS-4), which supported a maximum resolution of 512512 pixels with 
5,100 frames per second (fps). Depending on the test condition, the frame rate can be raised 
to 20,000 fps while the resolution is shrunk to 128512. The images at low We were captured 
with satisfactory quality mostly based on an exposure time of 10 s and continuous 
illuminating of light. For large We, however, the shutter of the camera was synchronized with 
a LED lamp that can support the shortest duration of 1 s, to capture images with sufficiently 
small exposure time and adequate light intensity while avoiding slurring due to background 
scattering. 
 
3. Results and discussion 
3.1. General observations 
  6
droplet can be readily created before the crater is recovered and a long thread is formed, as 
shown in Fig. 2d. This could occur as the crater bottom touches the surface of the solid plate 
whereby large upward momentum is rendered to the ejected jet when the transverse pressure 
gradient is transformed to the vertical direction, known as a tuning phenomenon [23,24], 
which has been argued to cause immediate transition from appearance of a secondary droplet 
to further formation of multiple droplets [15]. The droplets ejected out of the central jet, 
however, look smaller; these can be more clearly identified when We becomes higher. The 
evolution is demonstrated in Fig. 3. It reveals essential interaction between the crater bottom 
and the solid surface, specifically through the images of 3rd and 4th rows. Therefore the 
factors that dominate such fluid-structure interaction, such as the contact angle which reflects 
the spreading dynamics, would be effective in determining the collision outcome. As also 
seen in Fig. 2e, multiple droplets with larger size are sequentially pinched off from the neck 
via the normal breaking mechanism. If it happens because of strong interaction between the 
crater and the bottom surface, however, the jet ejected may appear thinner and the secondary 
droplets created should be significantly smaller (Fig. 2f). This would be generated 
particularly about the instant of contact, in contrast to that at later time when the crater is 
about to level off, as shown in Figs. 2e and 3. 
It is noted that the phenomena of generation of multiple droplets via pinch-off are 
somehow similar to that of partial coalescence as studied in Refs. [16,17]. They were 
dependent on the competing between horizontal and vertical collapses which were claimed to 
be dominated by surface tension [17]. If the vertical collapse was sufficiently delayed by the 
stretching of capillary waves upward, the neck could be successively pinched by the 
horizontal collapse. These phenomena were generated essentially at lower We [14] and not 
like that studied herein, which were caused due to the ejection of a central jet with substantial 
inertia rendered by the dynamics of the impact crater and underwater flows. 
When We is further increased, the fingering rim of the crown formed at the early stage 
may scatter into many satellite droplets, as shown in Fig. 2g. Due to bending by the 
gravitational force, the upwardly ejected sheet may eventually convene at the dome of the 
cavity, thus leading to enclosure of the crown (Fig. 2h). A jet would form after the closure 
and continue to grow subsequently, followed by similar pinching phenomena [15], as shown 
in the Supplementary material (Fig. S1), if We is sufficiently large. The bubble trapped inside 
is believed to cause various underwater perturbations that will affect the transport of fluid 
(e.g., for oxygen supply of marine lives) or transmission of sound waves (e.g., for sonar 
detection). If the film is thin, as shown in Fig. S2, the cavity is maintained essentially above 
the liquid surface. In this condition of test, furthermore, two jets were observed to extend 
both upward and downward.  
  8
occurrence of transformation. It happened in particular for splashing, whose somehow 
ambiguous nature was also mentioned in Ref. [25], for which we have now consistently 
accounted for its onset only if at least five satellite droplets are scattered out in a uniform 
manner. To be more cautious, we have adopted several steps as mentioned to justify the 
measurement of film thickness and repeated several times to confirm the quantitative trends. 
They indeed showed such non-monotonic transformations from absorption to appearance of a 
central jet, to pinch off of secondary droplet, to formation of multiple droplets from the jet, 
and to closure of the ejected crown. These turnings generally occurred within 0.5 d H d 1.0, 
whereas those of transitions encountered at higher We‘s such as the “closure” regime was 
created at a somewhat higher H. Furthermore, the variation of the “splashing” curve looks 
almost invariant to film thickness, in contrast to that reported in Ref. [15] where a slight 
increase with lowered H is pronounced as the quantity is between 1 and 2. 
Water on acryl
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
10 100 1000 10000
We
H
A - CJ CJ - S S - M M - C She - Spl  
Fig. 4. The regime diagram of water droplet impact upon a wet surface backed by an acrylic 
plate in terms of We versus H. The boundary A-CJ indicates the transition from absorption 
(regime A) to appearance of a central jet (regime CJ); CJ-S is the boundary between regime 
CJ and that followed by a second droplet (regime S); S-M divides the regime S and that 
associated with multiple droplets pinched from a central jet (regime M). The curve She-Spl 
designates the onset of multiple droplets, or ‘splashing,’ shed from the rim of the ejected 
crown. The crown is wrapped as We is larger than that marked by M-C, indicating ‘closed.’ 
 
The mechanism leading to such a “peninsula” at low H should be related to the 
interaction of the crater bottom and the backing solid surface. Considering the pinch-off of a 
central jet, for instance, if H is reduced from a “pool” case, say, 4.0, above which the 
A CJ S M C 
  10
Gly70 on acryl
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
10 100 1000 10000
We
H
A - CJ CJ - SS SS - MS MS - CJ CJ - S S - M M - C She - Spl  
(b) 
Fig. 5. The regime diagram of a droplet made of water and glycerine impacting a wet surface 
backed by an acrylic plate in terms of We versus H, in logarithmic scale, for (a) glycerite 50% 
and (b) glycerite 70%. The indices and legends for the boundaries are essentially the same as 
those of Fig. 4 while the suffix S, in “SS” and “MS,” specifically indicates observations of 
small droplets pinched from a thin jet that could be generated via the interaction between the 
crater and the bottom solid surface. 
 
3.3. Variation of impact features with increased liquid viscosity 
When viscosity is significantly increased by addition of glycerine, via which the surface 
tension is not changed much, regimes associated with small droplets pinched from the central 
jet is promoted. This can be seen in Fig. 5a for which the viscosity is increased by more than 
five times (Table 1), which indicates broadened range of pinch-off into secondary droplets, as 
designated by “SS” and MS” that are actually ramifications of the regimes “S” and “M”. The 
enhanced formations of secondary and multiple droplets via the central jet, which were 
generally smaller than the ordinary ones, could be caused by direct touch of the crater upon 
the bottom surface as discussed, and hence marked by the suffix “S,” meaning “small,” in the 
diagram. 
If viscosity is increased, the characteristic transitions are mostly delayed to larger 
Weber numbers, particularly for the onset of splashing, as shown in Fig. 5b. This should be 
due to increasing drag that prevents the liquid from taking apart, and is also apprehensible 
from the energy aspect of viscous dissipation. The transformation into a closed crown, 
however, seems not to change much in the We-H plot. It thus reveals the relevance of Weber 
C A 
CJ S 
MS 
M 
M 
SS
  12
Fig. 6. The regime diagram in terms of Ca versus H for (a) water, (b) glycerite 50%, and (c) 
glycerite 70%. The indices and legends are referred to those of Figs. 4 and 5. 
 
The effects of fluid viscosity may be more manifested when the transition boundaries 
are plotted on a diagram of Ca versus H, where the capillary number Ca is defined as V/. 
As shown in Fig. 6, the boundaries between the regimes, including that toward a closed 
crown, are clearly increased to larger Ca with raised viscosity. These results imply higher 
suitability of describing such viscous effects in terms of a parameter that involves liquid 
viscosity but not merely by the Weber number. 
It is noted that, while the onsets of (small) secondary droplet from a central jet and of 
multiple (small) droplets were created ostensibly at lower We’s and showed substantial 
difference from the formations via normal pinching, their boundaries as designated in the 
diagrams were somehow artificial. Nonetheless, the entire regimes that included pinching of a 
jet into secondary droplets for “S” or “M,” on a phenomenological basis regardless of the 
underlying mechanisms, could still be classified essentially as shown.  
 
3.4. Variation of impact features with reduced surface tension 
We have varied surface tension by adding very little surfactant in water while keeping 
viscosity almost constant, and summarized the results in Fig. 7. It is seen in Fig. 7a that, 
inside the regime for regular occurrence of a central jet, ejection of multiple droplets pinched 
from the jet is additionally formed, as marked by “MS,” which means multiple, small 
droplets. This unique feature should be due to direct contact of the crater with the bottom 
surface as discussed, and was possibly caused by the larger deformability when surface 
tension was substantially reduced by the surfactant.  
This regime is further expanded as surface tension is more reduced, as shown in Fig. 7b, 
implying enhanced interaction of the undersurface structures. The onset We of splashing, 
however, seems not to have a clear trend, which is increased first with lowered  and then 
decreased. On the other hand, if plotted on a Ca-H diagram, all the curves are essentially 
delayed to larger Ca (with a shape analogous to that in the We-H plot, not shown), showing 
significant influence of decreasing  via the surfactant. In spite of the sophistications, these 
results reveal the significance of surface tension in the determination of such structures, 
which would involve structural influence of the bottom solid surface that cannot be explicitly 
comprehended based on the present observations. It is further noted that, although the 
boundaries of the characteristic transitions might not readily reflect the increasing easiness of 
generation, the impact velocities that led to such variations were indeed reduced with 
decreased surface tension. 
 
  14
3.5. Splashing features 
The characteristics of splashes are separately discussed in this section since it is 
resulted from the fingering sheet ejected at the rim and differs essentially from the structures 
related to the central jet as mentioned. Such a wrinkling crown is generally formed early 
before the central jet is created. It is seen in Fig. 8 that the boundary of “She-Spl,” meaning 
the onset of splashing, is correlated well with the fitting relation obtained by Vander Wal et al. 
[26], i.e., OhRe1.17 = 63. Here the Reynolds number Re is defined as VD/ and the 
Ohnesorge number Oh as /(D)1/2 or (We)1/2/Re. This indicates that the occurrence of 
splash follows the general trend even if the liquid water is mixed with glycerol or surfactant. 
Therefore, the splashing phenomena should be closely related to the effects of liquid viscosity 
and surface tension. 
0.001
0.01
0.1
1
100 1000 10000
Re
Oh
Water
Gly50
Gly70
ST32
ST16 Splash
No splash
 
Fig. 8. The boundary of sheeting-splashing plotted in terms of Re and Oh for a pool case, i.e., 
H  3.9. The solid line is the fitting relation obtained by Vander Wal et al. [26] as OhRe1.17 
= 63. 
 
The formation of splash is somewhat insensitive to film thickness, as shown in the 
We-H plots, particularly for water. This exhibits a consistent manner as connected to that at 
smaller H reported in Refs. [27,28]. The turning around H  1 is however more pronounced 
in the solutions with glycerine, as seen in Fig. 5, showing a peninsula (which appears clearer 
when plotted in normal scale) as the film thickness is close to the droplet diameter. This 
further reveals the significance of underwater interaction that would be essentially affected by 
the viscous drag specifically when the film is sufficiently thin. It could be related to the 
  16
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000
We
H
A - CJ
CJ - MS
MS - CJ
CJ - S
S - M
She - Spl
A
CJ
CJ
MS
S
M
S
 
(b) 
Fig. 9. The regime diagram of water droplet impact upon a wet surface backed by an 
aluminum plate in terms of We versus H for (a) water and (b) water-surfactant solution, 
ST32, with  = 32.2 mN/m.  
 
The difference was magnified after glycerine or surfactant was added such that the 
collision outcome became richer. In particular, as shown in Fig. 9b, the regime of multiple 
small droplets specifically generated inside the “CJ” regime, designated by “MS,” appears 
shrunk as compared to that on an acrylic plate. It thus provided another evidence for the 
influence of bottom solid surface which would be correlated to a unique structure caused by 
the interaction of the crater and the bottom wall.  
 
4. Conclusions 
By a technique recently developed for generation of high-speed droplets, nominally up 
to 23 m/s, we have investigated the collision between a droplet and a wet surface, particularly 
when the liquid layer covering the backing solid surface is small, typically on the order of 
droplet size or smaller. The effects of fluid properties, specifically the viscosity and surface 
tension, have been studied. It was found that in principle, increase of liquid viscosity 
inhibited breaking up of the liquid mass and hence the characteristic transformations, which 
needed higher velocity to initiate the occurrence. With addition of surfactant, however, lower 
surface tension made easier the onsets of these regimes, which were yielded with lower 
impact velocity. The Weber number alone was not sufficient to describe these sophisticated 
  18
[2] S. Chandra, C.T. Avedisian, Proc. R. Soc. London A 432 (1991) 13. 
[3] A.L. Yarin, D.A. Weiss, J. Fluid Mech. 283 (1995) 141. 
[4] G.E. Cossali, M. Marengo, S. Santini, Atom. Sprays 15 (2005) 699. 
[5] O.W. Jayaratne, B.J. Mason, Proc. R. Soc. London A 280 (1964) 545. 
[6] O.G. Engel, J. Appl. Phys. 37 (1966) 1798. 
[7] F. Rodriguez, R. Mesler, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 106 (1985) 347. 
[8] R. Rioboo, C. Bauthier, J. Conti, M. Voué, J. De Coninck, Exp. Fluids 35 (2003) 648. 
[9] T. Okawa, T. Shiraishi, T. Mori, Exp. Fluids 41 (2006) 965. 
[10] I.V. Roisman, C. Tropea, J. Fluid Mech. 472 (2002) 373. 
[11] A.L. Yarin, Annu. Rev. Fluid Mech. 38 (2006)159. 
[12] M. Rein, Fluid Dynamics Research 12 (1993) 61. 
[13] R.L. Vander Wal, G. M. Berger, S. D. Mozes, Exp. Fluids 40 (2006) 33. 
[14] K.L. Pan, C.K. Law, J. Fluid Mech. 587 (2007) 1. 
[15] K.L. Pan, K.R. Cheng, P.C. Chou, C.H. Wang, Exp. Fluids 45 (2008) 435. 
[16] S.T. Thoroddsen, K. Takehara, Phys. Fluids 12 (2000) 1265. 
[17] F. Blanchette, T. P. Bigioni, Nat. Phys. 2 (2006) 254. 
[18] Y.J. Jiang, A. Umemura, C.K. Law, J. Fluid Mech. 234 (1992) 171. 
[19] N. Ashgriz, J.Y. Poo, J. Fluid Mech. 221 (1990) 183. 
[20] J.R. Adam, N.R. Lindblad, C.D. Hendricks, J. Appl. Phys. 39 (1968) 5173. 
[21] P.V. Hobbs, A.J. Kezweeny, Science 155 (1967) 1112. 
[22] A.M. Worthington, A Study of Splashes, Longmans, Green, London, 1908. 
[23] P.V. Hobbs, T.O. Osheroff, Science 158 (1967) 1184. 
[24] J. Shin, T.A. McMahon, Phys. Fluids A 2 (1990) 1312. 
[25] N.Z. Mehdizadeh, S. Chandra, J. Mostaghimi, J. Fluid Mech. 510 (2004) 353. 
[26] R.L. Vander Wal, G.M. Berger, S.D. Mozes, Exp. Fluids 40 (2006) 53. 
[27] G.E. Cossali, A. Coghe, M. Marengo, Exp. Fluids 22 (1997) 463. 
[28] A.B. Wang, C.C. Chen, Phys. Fluids 12 (2000) 2155. 
 
 
 2
characteristics could be substantially improved as being environment friendly; hence 
possibility of manipulating combustion behaviors specifically pollutants via some additives 
was revealed. This has rarely been investigated in a fundamental framework that is essential 
for understanding the key phenomena, which could be applied to various practical disciplines 
such as internal combustion engines and aircraft combustors. The work is briefly summarized 
as follows.  
 
Biodiesel, which is a non-fossil fuel and can be obtained from vegetable oil or animal fats, has 
recently been suggested as an alternative fuel for immediate utilization as a surrogate for 
petroleum-based fuels. Compared to conventional hydrocarbon-based diesels that are used in 
diesel engines, biodiesel is appealing for several reasons, including lower emissions of 
greenhouse gases and pollutants such as sulfur (virtually none) and soot, as well as polycyclic 
aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) and nitrited PAH (regarded as carcinogens), reduction of 
deforestation, increased lubricity for long-life utilization, and a higher flash point for safer 
storage and management. Its somewhat lower heating value, on the other hand, could be 
compensated for by mixing it with petroleum diesel. In doing so, performance would not be 
greatly affected and combustion may still be carried out within the existing burners. In spite of 
these observed features, few reports have been given in the literature in terms of a systematic 
investigation for the burning characteristics of diesel/biodiesel mixtures, as those frequently 
performed for droplet combustion with spherical flame geometry in the absence of natural 
convection. Also, most studies were performed directly in the practical burning devises, which 
could involve complex factors whose roles and effects cannot be clearly identified.  
 
In this study, we have systematically investigated the burning of biodiesel fuel based on the 
fundamental structure of a spherical droplet in a microgravity condition, which hence reduced 
the influence of external convection particularly from buoyancy. Furthermore, the fuel was 
mixed with diesel and/or alcohol (methanol, ethanol and propanol), which was another source 
of biological energy, for investigation of the possibility for making a better blend according to 
the desired properties. In particular, as compared to pure diesel and alkanes, biodiesel was 
found to yield much less tendency to a soot layer that could be formed in a spherical symmetry 
of droplet flame under the reduced gravity condition. Its mixture with the other fuels also 
exhibited reduction of such soot accumulation. The harmful products were further mitigated by 
addition of alcohol, which however needed biodiesel to serve as a connector if it was to be 
blended with diesel. Thereby the fundamental work revealed plausibility of using such a blend 
of biodiesel and/or alcohol for mitigation of pollutant production specifically of soot. 
 
三、與會心得 
Combustion is a traditional but the most important power source so far. The phenomena are 
full of scientific wonders such as nonlinear physics and reacting fluid dynamics, and have 
incurred multidisciplinary studies on fluid mechanics, heat transfer, and chemistry. Though 
 4
寄件者: AnnA@aiaa.org 
寄件日期: Friday, August 20, 2010 4:01 AM 
收件者: panpeter@ntu.edu.tw 
副本: panpeter@ntu.edu.tw 
主旨: Acceptance: 49th AIAA ASM Conf (897425) 
 
Important Date: 
Final Manuscript Due ? 13 December 2010 
 
Thu 19 Aug 2010 
 
On behalf of the conference committee, it is my pleasure to notify you that your unclassified 
abstract:   
   Abstract Title: Manipulation of Droplet Rebounding and Separation Using Surfactant  
   Control ID#:  897425  
   Presentation Type:  Technical Paper 
   Session: FD-60, Impinging Jets and Droplets,  
    
has been accepted for presentation at the 49th AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting, 4-7 January 2011.  
We invite you to present your work at the conference, to take place in Orlando, FL.  The 
conference name and control id# provided above is for your reference and should be included on all 
correspondence.  Please do NOT include this information on your manuscript.   
 
Submitting a Manuscript :  Final manuscripts are to be uploaded to AIAA through the conference 
ManuscriptCentral Web site. You, as contact author, will receive an invitation email with a direct 
link to the submission site by 1 November 2010 that will provide detailed instruction about how to 
upload.  If you have a co-author who will be uploading the manuscript, please be sure to forward 
the invitation email to him/her.    
 
Withdraw Submission:  If you need to withdraw your paper, please email AIAA at 
withdraw@aiaa.org.  You must provide your conference name and the control ID# in your email. 
AIAA will remove the paper from the conference program, and send you a confirmation of the 
withdrawal by email. 
 
Author Kit and Papers Template:  The author kit includes paper templates for MS Word and 
LaTeX, which provide information on the format guidelines. This kit is available on the conference 
Web site under the Author Resources link. 
 
Visa for Travel:  If you plan to attend this conference and require a visa for travel, it is incumbent 
upon you to apply for a visa with the embassy or consulate of the country where the event is being 
 6
寄件者: Kuo-Long Pan [panpeter@ntu.edu.tw] 
寄件日期: Sunday, December 05, 2010 9:59 PM 
收件者: 'Gordnier, Raymond E Civ USAF AFMC AFRL/RBAC'; 'AnnA@aiaa.org' 
副本: 'onbehalfof+AnnA+aiaa.org@manuscriptcentral.com' 
主旨: RE: 49th AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting - Jets and Droplets 
Session (UNCLASSIFIED) 
 
Conference: 49th AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting Abstract Title:  Manipulation of Droplet 
Rebounding and Separation Using Surfactant Control ID:  897425 
 
Dear Dr. Raymond Gordnier, Dr. Silton, and Miss Ann Ames, 
 
Thanks for your reminders. But I am sorry that, due to some physical issues after the surgeries for 
my retina recently, it may not be suitable for me to take this trip. So I am obliged to cancel this 
presentation. Sorry about this and thanks for your processing. 
 
Sincerely, 
Kuo-Long Pan 
 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Silton, Sidra (Civ,ARL/WMRD) [mailto:sidra.silton@us.army.mil] 
Sent: Thursday, December 02, 2010 2:45 AM 
To: harish.gopalan@gmail.com; Boles, John A CTR USAF AFMC AFRL/RZAS; 
xiaodong.chen@gatech.edu; drrajank@gmail.com; afshinn2@illinois.edu; 
holger.grosshans@energy.lth.se; chf09@fsu.edu; panpeter@ntu.edu.tw 
Cc: Gordnier, Raymond E Civ USAF AFMC AFRL/RBAC 
Subject: RE: 49th AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting - Jets and Droplets Session 
(UNCLASSIFIED) 
 
Classification: UNCLASSIFIED 
Caveats: NONE 
 
As the deadline for paper upload for the 2011 ASM conference approaches 
(1.5 weeks), this is a reminder that there is a new system in place this year and the rules for 
uploading your final manuscript have changed. 
 
1. Your first upload is your last.  You are locked out of the system once you have submitted your 
paper.   
 
 8
From: AnnA@aiaa.org [mailto:AnnA@aiaa.org]  
Sent: Monday, December 06, 2010 11:22 AM 
To: panpeter@ntu.edu.tw 
Subject: AIAA ASM Conference Withdrawal (897425) 
 
This confirms the withdrawal of your submission: 
 
Control ID#: 897425  
Title: Manipulation of Droplet Rebounding and Separation Using Surfactant 
 
from the following conference: 
 
AIAA 49th Aerosciences Meeting 
 
4-7 Jan 2011,  Orlando, Florida 
 
 
AIAA and the conference organizers thank you for your interest in the conference and for keeping 
our conference program up-to-date.  If you believe that this withdrawal notice is in error, please 
contact me immediately. 
 
 
Ann Ames 
AIAA Technical Papers  
 10
Best regards, 
 
Prof. Yei-Chin Chao 
Program Chairman of the ICDERS2011 
__________________________ 
This message was automatically generated by ConfMaster for ICDERS 2011; If you believe this is 
an error, please contact admin@ICDERS11.confmaster.net or linhochuan@yahoo.com 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：潘國隆 計畫編號：98-2221-E-002-122-MY2 
計畫名稱：添加界面活性劑與不同液體之液滴與液面的碰撞研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 4 100% 
篇 
數個計畫共同成
果 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  
專利 已獲得件數 1 1 100% 件 
數個計畫共同成
果，主為台大計畫
支持 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 8 8 100% 數個計畫共同成果 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 5 5 100% 
篇 
數個計畫共同成
果 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
□達成目標 
■未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
■其他原因 
說明： 
1. 計畫只核定為兩年而非原訂三年計畫，不少項目需重新調整（非全照原預定時限）。 
2. 此主題在國際間本就是一長期的熱門研究，近年來更有增長趨勢，有幾項為計畫所給
期限無法完全完成（需足夠人力與經費長期鑽研）。 
3. 原計畫書幾項預期達成項目包含過深，有些籠統，往後書寫應會注意更具體。 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
This project was aimed to explore deeper the flow physics in droplet collision, 
specifically for the high-speed regime that has rarely been studied. Furthermore, 
variation of the collision regimes by adding surfactant revealed the influence 
of interfacial structure on global outcome and prospect of further manipulation. 
The results have been wrapped up in several SCI journal papers. The success of 
this project would improve the current theories and techniques related to the 
dynamics of droplet collision. 
The topic on droplet impact dynamics has long been treated as an important element 
both in science and technology. It becomes even more intriguing to the society 
recently since the relevant utilization in micro/nano devices and 
biological/medical applications that involve multiphase flows. We believe that 
this subject shall continue to be an important issue both for fundamental research 
and engineering extension. Based on our experience, continual support from the 
government would help advance the comprehension for the fundamental mechanism of 
