 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
智慧型整合之異質無線網狀網路   
Smart M-Net: Smart Integration of Heterogeneous Wireless Mesh 
Networs 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-002-103-MY2 
執行期限：95 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：周承復    台灣大學資訊工程系 
e-mail: ccf@csie.ntu.edu.tw 
http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~ccf 
一、中文摘要 
隨著無線通訊網路的普及化，目前已有許多
不同的無線網路系統，例如手持電話系 
統、無線區域網路(WLANs) 、藍芽系統
(WPANs) 、WMANs 等等被使用在我們的日常
生活中。一般而言，無線網路系統架構通常
可分為基礎架構(Infrastructure-based 
mode) 和網狀架構(Mesh mode) ，基礎架構
已經大量的被使用在目前常見的無線網路系
統中，例如手持電話系統、IEEE 802.11 WLAN
系統。然而在基礎架構無線網路中，由於使
用者利用單一節點的通訊方式與基地台連
線，使得始用者在基地台的傳輸範圍內才可
獲得無線網路的服務。此外，由於所有使用
者利用同一個頻帶與基地台通訊，使用者之
間互相干擾的問題降低了服務品質。因此，
多重頻帶、多重跳點的無線網狀網路
(Multi-channel Multi-hop Wireless Mesh 
Networks, WMNs) 被提出來解決上述基礎架
構網路中所產生的問題。利用多重頻帶、多
重跳點的傳輸，網路系統得以改善資源使用
率、增加系統吞吐量，並且擴大無線網路的
通訊區域。換言之，為了達到網狀網路的最
佳化使用率目的，我們必須同時考慮頻帶的
分配管理以及封包路由方式來設計。 
 
此外，由於使用者對於普及運算(ubiquitous 
computing) 的環境需求亦逐漸增加，許 
多新開發的裝置同時配置多個通訊介面，提
供使用者依照應用的需求來存取不同的網路 
系統，得到適當的網路服務。此需求也促進
異質網狀網路的研究開發，藉由異質網狀網 
路的合作，系統可提供使用者於異質網路間
切換使用的便利性。 
 
本計畫將致力於建立高生產力的無線網狀網
路，藉由多重頻帶的公平分配使用來提 
升網路的吞吐量以及擴大網路涵蓋區域。此
外，在考慮異質網路的特性及限制下，將不 
同的網狀網路整合為一個無縫的異質網狀網
路系統。 
 
關鍵字：普及運算、無線網狀網路、異質無
線網狀網路。 
二、Abstract 
Recently numerous wireless networks, such as 
WLAN, WiMax, Bluetooth, and the  
cellular network, have come into great use in 
our daily life. The infrastructure-based 
structure is commonly used in current wireless 
networks. However, there are several 
shortcomings in the infrastructure-based 
networks. First, the single hop connection 
between the clients and base station restricts 
the available transmission range. Second, the 
utilization of single channel causes the serious 
interference effect. Consequently, in this work 
the multi-channel multi-hop wireless mesh 
network (WMN) is proposed to improve the 
resource utilization, increase overall 
throughput and extend the network coverage. 
That is, we will jointly consider the channel 
assignment problem and routing problem to 
get the optimal resource utilization and 
maximize the throughput for design of a 
homogeneous WMN.  
 
On the other hand, many new applications 
require a ubiquitous computing environment.  
Each mobile device will be equipped with 
multiple communication interfaces to access 
the seamless services from different wireless 
networks. Hence, another challenging issue is 
how to design a high-performance 
heterogeneous wireless mesh networks 
 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6
 
 
 
六、Conclusions 
 
We  have  proposed  a  Mixed  Integer  Linear  
Programming(MILP)  model   to  determine  the  opti
mal  solution  of  the  JRC problem.  To  the  best  
of  our  knowledge,  the  proposed  MILP model is the 
first optimization model that can satisfy the Radio 
Constraint, Channel Constraint, and Co-channel 
Interference-constraint  simultaneously  without  any  re
laxation. Therefore, MILP model can determine 
the theoretical maximal network capacity and configure 
the optimal routing and channel assignment. We 
have also presented performance evaluations that 
compare existing heuristic/suboptimization methods with 
the optimal  solution.  The   results  show  that  the  d
istributed algorithm can only utilize half the maximal 
network capacity, while the centralized sub-optimization 
model with polynomial computational complexity can 
achieve 80% aggregate throughput of the optimal solution. 
These results could help system designes realize a 
tradeoff between performance and computational 
complexity.   
七、References 
 
[1]  A.  Raniwala,  K.  Gopalan,  and  T.  Chiueh, 
 “Centralized Algorithms  for Multi-channel Wireless 
Mesh Networks,” in ACM Mobile Computing and 
Communications Review (MC2R), 2004.  
[2]  A.  Raniwala  and  T.  Chiueh,  “Architecture  
and  Algorithms  for   an  IEEE 802.11-based 
Multi-Channel Wireless Mesh Network,” in Proc. of 
IEEE Infocom, 2005.  
[3]  M.  Alicherry,  R.  Bhatia, and  L.  Li,“Joint 
Channel Assignment and 
Routing  for  Throughput  Optimization  in  Multi-r
adio  Wireless  Mesh Networks,” in MobiCom ’05, 
2005.  
[4]  J.  Tang,  G.  Xue,  and  W.  Zhang,  “Interfer
ence-Aware  Topology Control and QoS Routing in 
Multi-Channel Wireless Mesh Networks,” in Mobi-  
Hoc ’05, 2005.  
[5]  A. K. Das, H. M. K. Alazemi, R. Vijayakumar, 
and S. Roy, “Optimization Models for Fixed Channel 
Assignment in Wireless Mesh Networks with Multiple  
Radios,” in Second Annual IEEE Communications 
Society Conference on Sensor and Ad Hoc 
Communications and Networks (SECON 05), 2005.  
[6]  C.-J. Lin and C.-F. Chou, “Route-aware 
load-balanced resource allocation 
 8
Networks‘’, The first International Workshop on 
Opportunistic Networks (WON'08, in 
conjunction with IEEE AINA'08), Ginowan, 
Okinawa, Japan, 2008 
 
Ling-Jyh Chen, Cheng-Long Tseng and 
Cheng-Fu Chou,” On Using Probabilistic 
Forwarding to Improve HEC-based Data 
Forwarding in Opportunistic Networks”, in the 
2007 IFIP International Conference on 
Embedded and Ubiquitous Computing 
(EUC-07), to be held in Taipei, Taiwan, 
December 17-20, 2007. 
 
Junn-Yen Hu, Chen-Fu Chou and Min-Shi 
Sha,” M-NEMO: Micro Mobility Scheme for 
Network Mobility”, in the 3rd IFIP 
International Symposium on Network Centric 
Ubiquitous Systems (NCUS 2007),Taipei, 
Taiwan, December 17- 20, 2007 
 
Chih-Cheng Hsu, Ming-Hung Chen, Chen-Fu 
Chou and Wei-Chih Chi,” ANSWER: Adaptive 
Network Selection in WLAN/UMTS 
EnviRonment”, in the 3rd IFIP International 
Symposium on Network Centric Ubiquitous 
Systems (NCUS 2007),Taipei, Taiwan, 
December 17- 20, 2007 
 
Ching-Ju Lin, Sung-Han Lin and Cheng-Fu 
Chou, “Performance Study of Optimal Routing 
and Channel Assignment in Wireless Mesh 
Networks”, in the 50th IEEE GLOBECOM, 
Nov. 2007 
 
Ching-Ju Lin, Yi-Ting Chang, Shuo-Chan Tsai, 
and Cheng-Fu Chou,” Enabling Keyword 
Search and Similarity Search in 
Small-World-based P2P Systems”, in The 16th 
IEEE International Conference on Computer 
Communications and Networks, Aug. 13 - 16, 
2007, Honolulu, Hawaii USA 
 
Ling-Jyh Chen, Cheng-Fu Chou, Bo-Chun 
Wang, ”A Machine Learning-based Approach 
for Estimating Available Bandwidth”, IEEE 
TENCON 2007, Taipei, Taiwan, 2007. (EI)  
 
Ling-Jyh Chen, Chih-Wei Sung, Hao-Hsiang 
Hung, Tony Sun, and Cheng-Fu Chou, 
“ TSProbe: A Link Capacity Estimation Tool 
for Time-Slotted Wireless Networks”, in The 
Fourth IEEE and IFIP International Conference 
on wireless and Optical Communications 
Networks (WOCN'07), Singapore, 2007. (EI) 
 
Ching-Ju Lin, Yi-Ting Chang, and Cheng-Fu 
Chou,” Distributed Social-based Overlay 
Adaptation for Unstructured P2P Networks”, 
10th IEEE Global Internet Symposium (in 
conjunction with IEEE INFOCOM'07), May 
2007. 
 
Ching-Ju Lin and Cheng-Fu Chou, 
"Route-Aware Load-Balanced Resource 
Allocation for Wireless Mesh Networks," in 
IEEE Wireless Communication and Networking 
Conference (WCNC), Mar. 2007, Hong Kong.  
 
Wei-Cheng Xiao, Ling-Jyh Chen, Shih-Hsuan 
Tang and Cheng-Fu Chou, "VIP: a Virtual 
Interface-based Approach for Vertical Handover 
in Single-subnet Networks," in IEEE 21st 
International Conference on Advanced 
Information Networking and Applications 
(AINA-07), May. 2007, Niagara Falls, Canada.  
 10
  2008 日本東京大學參訪報告 
台大資工周承復教授 2008/10/27 
日本東京大學創立於十九世紀後期的江戶時代，是日本明治維新，洋學昌盛的見證，百
年來，作育英才無數，佐藤榮作等多位首相、小柴昌俊等諾貝爾物理學獎得主、川端康成、
大江健三郎等諾貝爾文學獎得 主、建築師丹下健三、動畫大師高畑勳、小說家夏目漱石等
等都是東大畢業生，其他政府高層官員、參眾議員以及企業高層更是不勝枚舉。在中國上海
交通大學高等教育研究所發表「2008年世界大學學術排行榜」指出，就亞洲而言，東京大學
躍居亞洲第 1名，京都大學為第 2名。但以世界排名而言，東京大學排名世界第 19位 
我們十月十五日搭乘西北航空由台北飛往東京成田機場，十六日上午即前往東京大學的本鄉
校區，穿過充滿古意的「赤門」，感覺進入另一個時空，走在碧綠如翡翠般的銀杏大道，感
受瀰漫在空氣中濃濃的秋日氣息，想像那些歷史風流人物也曾經這綠色大道上往來穿梭。緊
接著在上午由Prof. Nishita就最近所發表的論文作實際的展示和演說: 我們看了由  Mr. 
Witawat 所負責的 "Real-time Animation of Sand-Water Interaction "，發表在PG 2008 Computer 
Graphics Forum. 主要目的是如何能在即時去完成類是沙和水滴等的自然呈現。緊接著,我們
陸續看了由 Mr. Yoshohiro 所利用GPU運算所呈現大規模的 MetaBalls 。其中印象最深刻
的，就是由 Mr. Yosuke 所展示的照片重新對焦系統：Digital Refocusing from a Single 
Photograph。綜合而言，Prof. Nishita 實驗室所完成的成果，內容之精彩，實在令人敬佩。 
 在第二天我們則報告了最近我們所開發完成的一些系統包含：P2P streaming 以及
Semantic -Overlay Network 有關 multimedia contents 如何 Search and Sharing做一番討論，當
然也多參觀了更多 Prof. Nishita 實驗室的系統和成果：Clouds Illuminated by Lightning with 
Multiple Scattering，Real-Time Rendering of Scenes with Light Scattering Effects，和 PRT for 
Dynamic Scenes Taking into Account Light Interreflection。以上的報告皆引起熱烈的討論，也
提供我們另一種新的思維方式，聽完之後感覺受益良多。一天下來雖然身體覺得很疲倦但精
