the resonance characteristic of microbubbles. 
Therefore, compression filter designed base on square 
law model, which neglect the resonance characteristic 
of microbubbles, is limited by pressure and bandwidth 
of the transmitted signal. 
We propose a novel method, a bandwith synthesis 
technique for second harmonic pulse compression, for 
combatting the limitations mentioned above. The 
square law model is applicable to the response of 
microbubble with narrowband chirp excitation. Results 
of multiple narrowband chirp excitations are then 
combined to synthesize a large bandwidth for high 
resolution imaging. In this project, an experimental 
B-mode system will be build for validating the 
performance of the proposed technique. 
 
This project will aims at the following issues :  
1. Theoretical analysis for the bandwith synthesis 
technique. 
2. Simulation studies for the bandwith synthesis 
technique 
3. Performance evaluation for the subband selection 
based on the resonance property of microbbles. 
4. Optimal Parameter designed for the bandwith 
synthesis technique. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Ultrasound imaging, Coded excitation, Pulse 
compression, Ultrasound contrast agent. 
 
2 
 
中文摘要 
 
編碼激發-脈衝壓縮技術為常被用在成像上的方法，此技術能成功的提高訊號的訊雜比及穿透
深度。超音波對比劑的強烈回音能使組織下的微血管較清楚的被偵測到，因此對比劑的非線性特
性常被用在各種超音波成像的方法上。 
在(Borsboom 2005)研究中，以 ”微氣泡二次諧波的頻寬為基頻訊號頻寬的兩倍” 為基礎來建立
脈衝壓縮濾波器，依我們先前的研究可以知道，由於氣泡獨特的共振特性，對每個頻率的頻率響
應皆不一致，而 chirp訊號通常為一寬頻帶訊號，其頻帶上的變動頻率對於氣泡的頻率響應皆不
一致，因此以square law model的觀念(Kim 2001; Roozbeh 2007)來設計脈衝壓縮濾波器時，其
效能會受到發射訊號聲壓強度及頻寬的限制。 
本計畫提出一新方法：二次諧波脈衝壓縮-頻寬合成技術、以克服上述限制。利用較窄頻的chirp
訊號來當作激發訊號，氣泡對窄頻寬的chirp訊號頻率響會較符合square law model，因此除了提
升窄頻帶脈衝壓縮後的效能外，且利用多個窄頻帶(subband)脈衝壓縮的結果來合成一寬頻訊號，
以祈大幅改進以往只以square law model為基礎的脈衝濾波器壓縮後的效能。計畫將建立高解析
度B-mode影像系統，以驗證此技術之效能。 
計劃中我們將整個研究分成以下部分來進行研究 1. 二次諧波脈衝壓縮-頻寬合成技術理論分
析 2. 二次諧波脈衝壓縮-頻寬合成技術模擬研究 3.基於氣泡共振特性對於不同頻帶選取之頻寬
合成技術效能評估 4.頻寬合成技術之最佳化參數設計 
 
 
 
英文摘要 
 
Coded excitation with pulse compression has been used successfully in imaging to increase signal to 
noise ratio (SNR) and penetration depth. Strong nonlinear response from contrast agent enables 
discriminatory detection of contrast agents in tissue, which is used in several nonlinear contrast agent 
imaging methods. 
Borsboom et.al., proposed a pulse compression filter, which has twice the instantaneous frequency of 
the transmitted signal at every time point. In our previous studies, we found that the responses of 
4 
 
精簡報告 
1 組織諧波成像 
在超音波影像中使用諧波回波訊號成像，由於諧波回波訊號頻率相較於基頻回波訊號頻率還高，
使得空間解析度能得到提升，並可提高穿透力。 
脈衝反相技術	
脈衝反相技術不論是寬頻還是窄頻寬都可以使用，探頭發射訊號為一對相位相差180度的脈衝對，
正負脈衝做相加基頻時域會完全抵銷，剩下偶倍頻部分，強度以二倍頻諧波訊號為最強。 
諧波合頻	
合頻的意義在於將多個頻寬訊號合成為一個超大頻寬訊號。將合頻用在組織諧波合頻成像，可得
到超高解析度的組織諧波影像。這裡討論的諧波合頻技術是發射訊號為多個不同頻率的長脈衝訊
號，可使諧波訊號強並提升信雜比。此外，窄頻的發射訊號
所造成的回波訊號，可透過帶通濾波器取出諧波訊號做合頻，
使頻寬加大並保留解析度。 
諧波合頻之發射訊號限制	
兩個頻譜一定需要重疊在3dB位置 
諧波訊號強度一致，否則會使波形抑制效果減弱，造成解析
度下降。 
多諧波合頻	
利用調整後的多頻二倍頻諧波訊號做合頻 
 
前半部L(t)可以跟前面一樣視為包絡線,如figure3中左邊的虛線,figure4中右邊的實線.L(t)的
用處是將figure 4的時域sidelobe壓低 
 
經過和頻後,時域訊號長度縮短,促使時域解析度提高.所L(t)對訊號長度的限制是解析度提高必
須考量的參數。 
諧波合頻問題	
原因來自於探頭頻率響應、組織衰減，可能導致某些二倍頻無法產生。 
Figure 1:頻譜訊號
6 
 
分頻寬 10%的諧波合頻與脈衝反相	
 
Figure 2:兩個 echo 諧波和頻結果 
 
Figure 3:pulse inversion 實驗結果 
 由figure5,figure6 可看出和頻訊號結果較佳.以和頻後時域來看,較少的時域沒有artifact,
且訊號波形雜訊較低,SNR相當高. 
8 
 
3 B-mode成像比較 
 實驗儀器 
‧ 三維雕刻機(步進馬達) 
 成像方式分別為 
‧ 基頻成像、脈衝反相技術成像、諧波合頻成像 
 發射訊號 
‧ 中心頻 3MHz 分頻寬 30% 
 探頭 
‧ 5MHz(無聚焦) 
 使用仿體為 
‧ 吉利 T+矽膠片製成 
‧ 吉利 T+棉花+銅片製成 
 
 
分頻寬 30%三種影像比較	
 
Figure 5:矽膠片成像比較 
上面三張圖分別為分頻寬30%矽膠坊體比較圖，深度由50公厘到65公厘，由左邊第一為基頻訊號
B-mode影像，有著高信雜比，但解析度不足。而中間的脈衝反相技術所取出的諧波信號其信雜比
是相對弱，只能確定有東西存在卻無法看清楚其輪廓。而諧波合頻技術有著較好的信雜比且解析
度明顯提高了，更能分辨三片矽膠片的位置，在50公厘到53.75公厘為第一片矽膠片，而53.75公
0885–3010/$25.00 © 2010 IEEE
2654 IEEE TransacTIons on UlTrasonIcs, FErroElEcTrIcs, and FrEqUEncy conTrol, vol. 57, no. 12, dEcEmbEr 2010
Abstract—The ultrasonic property of soft tissue can be 
quantified by its attenuation coefficient α. Traditionally the 
backscattering signal of tissue is used to estimate α. To im-
prove precision, a large number of spatially independent sam-
ples of tissue echoes are required for averaging. In this pa-
per, we propose a new estimation method, which makes use 
of microbubbles to provide temporally independent samples 
for averaging. It is easier for temporal sampling to maintain 
ergodicity and provide a large number of independent samples 
for statistical averaging.
A stochastic model for the harmonic signals of an ideal bub-
ble attenuated by tissue is derived based on Kuc’s and Miller’s 
works. An estimator of α is then presented. This estimator is 
consistent and could be biased because of the unknown square-
law relation between the second and fundamental harmonics 
for non-ideal bubble oscillation.
In experimental works, we design a simplified phantom for 
demonstrating the performance of the proposed estimator. It 
is shown that both first and second harmonics can estimate α 
consistently. However, the interference of the tissue backscat-
tering signal may cause additional estimation error using the 
first harmonic.
I. Introduction
Ultrasound tissue attenuation is a linearly increas-ing function of frequency and distance. It represents 
the energy loss of signal after propagating through a me-
dium as:
 attenuation|dB = afd, (1)
where α is the attenuation coefficient of tissues [1], [2], 
which is generally spatially varying; f is the signal frequen-
cy; and d is the depth of the interrogated tissue. Usually, 
the tissue attenuation coefficient (Tac) is estimated from 
the backscattering signals of soft tissue, e.g., liver. be-
cause signals are scattered by randomly distributed scat-
ters, they can be represented as a random process, and 
thus Tac must be estimated by statistical methods. To 
improve precision, a large number of spatially independent 
samples of tissue echoes are required for averaging.
Kuc et al. [3], [4] presented an unbiased estimator of 
Tac to differentiate diffuse liver diseases (hepatitis and 
cirrhosis). Kuc assumed that Tac is constant over the 
entire liver volume for diffuse disease, thus, we may get 
an unbiased Tac value in this bounded area. based on 
this assumption, several researchers estimate the Tac in 
the time or frequency domain to optimize the estimation 
efficiency [5]–[8]. Zagzebski and Varghese used broadband 
echo signals to estimate Tac; they also proposed using a 
reference phantom to compensate for the tissue scattering 
effect to increase estimation efficiency [9], [10].
rather than global-area estimation methods, research-
ers also proposed several local-area estimators to image or 
visualize the tumor using finite local echo data [11]–[18]. 
In this case, the estimation error is bounded by the avail-
able number of spatial samples. It is the purpose of this 
research to release the restriction of finite data by using 
the echo of microbubbles as the source signal for estimat-
ing Tac.
contrast agents (i.e., microbubbles) are primarily used 
to enhance blood flow signals. For in vivo use, new ap-
plications based on the physical properties of bubbles are 
developed (e.g., nonlinearity [19]–[23], and doppler spec-
trum shape [24]–[28], etc.). because the echo of the con-
trast agent is attenuated by tissue, Greenleaf et al. intro-
duced a parametric method called harmonic to squared 
fundamental ratio (HsFr) to compensate for the attenu-
ation of overlying tissue [18]. In a previous work [29], we 
had investigated the use of bubble second harmonic echo, 
which is reradiated from a flow, to estimate the attenua-
tion coefficient of the overlying tissue.
an advantage of using bubble echo to estimate Tac 
is that we can change spatially independent samples (tis-
sue echo) into temporally independent samples (i.e., pulse 
to pulse independent echoes). The stochastic property of 
bubbles in a vascular system was investigated by lo et 
al. [24]; if the flow velocity is constant, bubbles would 
be uniformly distributed in the vessel and their phases 
would be uniformly distributed in [0, 2π]. Following this 
property, if 1) the bubble concentration was low, so that 
bubbles would not produce multiple scattering; 2) the mI 
(mechanical index) of interrogation signal was kept low to 
have stable bubble oscillation; and 3) the vessel reflection 
was small compared with bubble backscattering, then the 
bubble echo would be a time-varying stationary complex 
Gaussian random signal.
Following Kuc’s assumption that each path has a same 
Tac, we can maintain the ergodicity of each pulse echo. 
This means that each pulse echo from a certain beam 
path is randomly generated by the same distribution. If 
we know the stochastic properties of bubble before it is 
attenuated by tissue, we could estimate Tac by averag-
ing the power difference of echoes before and after tissue 
A Consistent Tissue Attenuation Coefficient 
Estimator Using Bubble Harmonic Echoes
sheng-Kai Tsao and Jenho Tsao, Member, IEEE
manuscript received February 24, 2010; accepted august 26, 2010. 
This work was supported by the national science council, Taiwan, 
roc. (nsc99-2221-E002-048).
s.-K. Tsao is with the national Taiwan University, Graduate Institute 
of communication Engineering, Taipei, Taiwan.
J. Tsao is with the national Taiwan University, department of Electri-
cal Engineering, Taipei, Taiwan (e-mail: tsaor215@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw).
digital object Identifier 10.1109/TUFFc.2010.1739
where
 s t a s t1 1( ) ( )= a  (5)
and
 s t a s t2 2 2( ) ( ),= a  (6)
where a1 and a2 are the first and second harmonic ampli-
tude responses of microbubble. Values of a1 and a2 depend 
on the bubble size, bubble resonance frequency, and other 
physical constants that characterize the surrounding envi-
ronment of the bubbles.
The bubble signal is then attenuated and received as
 x t x t x t( ) ( ) ( ),= +1 2  (7)
where
 x t L f s t1 1( ) ( , ) ( )= h c  (8)
and
 x t L f s t2 22( ) ( , ) ( ).= h c  (9)
applying (5) and (6) in (8) and (9), it can be shown that 
x1(t) and x2(t) can be rewritten as
 x t L f a s t1 1 02( ) ( , ) ( )= h c  (10)
and
 x t L f a s t2 2 022 2( ) ( , ) ( ).= h c  (11)
assuming that the sizes of bubbles are randomly dis-
tributed, then the frequency dependent factors, a1 and a2, 
would become random variables A1 and A2. as shown in 
Fig. 2, the echo from a flow would be composes of mul-
tiple echoes from microbubbles with random sizes. In such 
case, the first harmonic of bubble echo can be modeled as 
a random signal
 X t u t L f A tj
j
N
j1 1
1
2( ) ( ) ( , ) cos( ),= + +
=
åh w qc c  (12)
where u(t) is the echo of tissue and it is assumed to be 
invariant from pulse to pulse, N is the number of mi-
crobubbles which is random, and A1j and phase θj are the 
random factors of bubbles. Unlike bubble echo, the tissue 
backscattering signal is deterministic for a certain a-line 
from pulse to pulse. like the first harmonic, the second 
harmonic can be modeled as
 X t L f A f tj
j
N
j2 2
1
2 2 2 2( ) ( , ) cos( ).= +
=
åh p jc c  (13)
Unlike the first harmonic case, the second harmonic is 
simply a random signal; this signal is independent of the 
tissue echo. If the random phases of the first and sec-
ond harmonics were dominated by the random positions 
of bubbles, following lo’s approach [24], both the phase 
distribution of θj and φj will be uniformly distributed in 
[0, 2π]. Thus, the samples of bubble harmonics are inde-
pendent for different interrogating pulses.
as shown in Fig. 2, the path of attenuation for the jth 
bubble is L + lj. The differential path lj accounts for the 
attenuation of blood flow. Without loss of generality, the 
attenuation of blood flow is much less than that of tissue, 
therefore the attenuation of blood flow is negligible and 
only the attenuation of tissue with length L is counted in 
(12) and (13).
To have a proper range resolution for differentiating the 
flows, the interrogating signal is redefined to be a pulse 
signal as s0(t) = p(t) cos (ωct), where p(t) is a narrowband 
pulse. To maintain the applicability of miller’s solution, 
s0(t) must be a narrowband signal that can approximate 
a continuous input signal as assumed in miller’s work. 
Therefore, (11) is extended to be a band-limited signal as
 X t L f a p t t2 2 22 2 2( ) ( , ) ( )cos( ).@ h wc c  (14)
consequently, (13) becomes
 X t L f p t A f tj
j
N
j2
2
2
1
2 2 2 2( ) ( , ) ( ) cos( ).@ +
=
åh p jc c  (15)
because the doppler effect is neglected in the signal mod-
el, it is preferred that the bandwidth of the transmission 
signal is as narrow as possible to have unambiguous har-
monics in frequency domain. In general, the doppler effect 
is frequency- and bubble-velocity-dependent, and attenu-
ation is also frequency-dependent. because both doppler 
effect and attenuation are frequency dependent, if the 
signal bandwidth is large, the doppler effect cannot be 
simply neglected; it will cause waveform distortion and 
make (14) invalid. For this reason, p(t) is considered to be 
a rectangle pulse with a length roughly the same as the 
diameter of the flow. Under this assumption, we may drop 
the effect of p(t) and keep the second harmonic of (15) 
after range gating be same as that of (13).
For convenience in latter formulation, (15) is rewritten 
into its in-phase and quadrature form as
 X t L f I t Q t2 2 22 2 2 2( ) ( , )[ cos( ) sin( )],= -h w wc c c  (16)
where
 I A j
j
N
j2 2
1
=
=
å cos( )j  (17)
and
 Q A j
j
N
j2 2
1
=
=
å sin( ).j  (18)
In a stable physical environment, the second harmonic for 
each microbubble, A2j, is just a function of the bubble’s 
2656 IEEE TransacTIons on UlTrasonIcs, FErroElEcTrIcs, and FrEqUEncy conTrol, vol. 57, no. 12, dEcEmbEr 2010
To summarize, the properties of this estimator are:
 1)  To make the Tac estimator of (27) be unbiased, 
the statistical properties of the harmonic signals of 
bubbles in flow1 and flow2 must be identical. Us-
ing the second harmonic to estimate Tac may fulfill 
this condition and provide an unbiased estimator. 
However using first harmonic to estimate Tac, tis-
sue backscattering signal u(t) interfere with the esti-
mator as given in (12), biasing the estimator.
 2)  The Tac estimation error decreases with increasing 
sample size Q, see (29). However, because the u(t) 
interferes with the first harmonic, the variance of 
Tac estimate, sa2, is larger than that using the sec-
ond harmonic.
IV. Estimation bias caused by non-Ideal  
bubble Property
For an ideal bubble, the amplitude of s2(t) is a2η2(L, fc). 
However, for a non-ideal bubble, the amplitude of s2(t) 
must be modified to be a2ηγ(L, fc), where γ is known as 
the logarithm scale ratio of the first and second harmonic, 
which could be different than 2 [19], [20] depending on the 
shell properties of the bubble, and thus it is frequency-
dependent. That is, the second harmonic amplitude is not 
exactly the square of the first harmonic. based on this 
property, the attenuated second harmonic echo of (13), 
the log power spectrum of (20), and the Tac estimator 
(25) must be changed to be
 X t L f L f A f tj
j
N
j2 2
1
2 2 2( ) ( , ) ( , ) cos( )= +
=
åh g h p jc c c  (30)
 P f f L Y f f( ) ( ( ) log ) ( )= - + + -g a d2 10 22c c  (31)
 ˆ ( ).a a g= +
æ
èçç
ö
ø
÷÷÷ + -
=
å24
1
4
1
1 2
1
f L Q
B Bq q
q
Q
c
 (32)
because the scaling factor γ is unknown, the Tac es-
timator based on the ideal model (13) would become an 
up-biased estimator when γ  is greater than 2 or a down-
biased estimator when γ is less than 2. not that the scale 
factor γ will not affect the consistency of the Tac estima-
tor. Following (32), when the sample size Q approaches 
infinity, it would become
 lim ˆ ,
Q®¥
= +
æ
èçç
ö
ø
÷÷÷a a
g 2
4
 (33)
which means that the consistency is maintained.
V. Experiment
To demonstrate the performance of the proposed Tac 
estimator, an experimental system as shown in Fig. 3 is 
built for collecting bubble signals. It is to be verified that 
Tac can be estimated efficiently using the bubble har-
monic signals and that its precision can be improved by 
increasing the sample size Q.
A. Experimental Setup
The block diagram of the experimental system is pre-
sented in Fig. 3. as shown in Fig. 4, the phantom has two 
flows to produce two gated signals as given in Fig. 1. The 
diameter of the flows is 3 mm. The thickness of the tubes 
for the flows is 1 mm. To avoid the shadowing effect of 
flow 1, these two flows are positioned at different eleva-
tions within the beam width. To introduce the desired at-
tenuation for flow 2, a fresh pork liver with thickness 1 cm 
is inserted between the two flows. before the experiment, 
the pork liver is degassed by a vacuum machine for two 
hours. The contrast agent (microbubble) used is sono-
vue (bracco, milan, Italy). Its concentration is 5 ml 
in 3 l of dextrose solution. an intravenous drip is used 
to simulate microbubbles in blood flow. The flow speed 
is about 2.45 m/s. a single transducer is used for both 
transmitting and receiving. The transducer is placed on 
the phantom where the distance between tube1 and the 
transducer is 5 cm.
The transmitter uses an arbitrary function generator 
(TGa1242, Thurlby Thandar Instruments ltd., Hunt-
ingdon, England) to generate signals. a power amplifier 
(75a250 ar) is used to control the signal before apply-
ing to the T/r switch and piston probe, which is a non-
focused transducer (V380, 3.5 mHz, 2.5 cm, Panametrics, 
Waltham, ma). The signal power is set at a level that can 
make the bubbles generate second harmonics with an snr 
of around 15 db.
bubble echo signals are received through the T/r 
switch and amplified by a low-noise amplifier (5072 Pr 
Panametrics) before a/d conversion (ad-link, PcI-9812, 
20 mHz, 16-bit). The digitalized signals were stored in the 
Pc for further processing.
2658 IEEE TransacTIons on UlTrasonIcs, FErroElEcTrIcs, and FrEqUEncy conTrol, vol. 57, no. 12, dEcEmbEr 2010
Fig. 3. The block diagram of experimental system.
using the second harmonic: from 0.39 db/cm/mHz to 
0.49 db/cm/mHz. second, the averaged Tac estimates 
using the four second harmonic values is 0.44 db/cm/
mHz, compared to the referential value of 0.43 db/cm/
mHz, their difference is only 0.012 db/cm/mHz. This 
difference should be negligible, because the standard de-
viation of each individual estimates are in the order of 
0.01 db/cm/mHz. Thus, it is highly probable that the 
Tac estimates using the second harmonic are unbiased. 
Finally, the standard deviations of the Tac estimated 
using the first harmonics are greater than those using the 
second harmonics. These results show that estimating 
Tac using second harmonic is more accurate than using 
the first harmonic. The main reason for the superiority 
of using second harmonic is that the second harmonic is 
free from tissue interference.
VI. discussion and conclusion
In this paper, we derived a new Tac estimator using 
the attenuated harmonic signals of microbubbles. because 
tissue backscattering echo is a random process, the attenu-
ation coefficient can only be estimated using a large num-
ber of spatially sampled tissue backscattering signals. This 
makes the local Tac difficult to estimate. our method, 
replaces the spatial averaging by temporal averaging by 
using the echoes of microbubbles, which can increase the 
sample size and thus improve the estimation precision.
Theoretically, this estimator is consistent and unbiased. 
However in practice, the bubble signal may not be as ideal 
as assumed in the theoretical models. For the first har-
monic, tissue echo may interfere to down-bias the Tac 
estimates. For the second harmonic, non-ideal bubble os-
cillation may up-bias the estimator. To suppress the bias, 
the power relation between the first and second harmonics 
must be known a priori.
Experimental results showed that the estimation error 
can be reduced by increasing sample size, which proves 
that the proposed Tac estimator is consistent. because 
the sample size is time-dependent instead of space-depen-
dent, the estimation accuracy is independent of the size of 
tissue area being sampled. Ideally, the spatial resolution 
of the Tac estimator is the shortest distance between the 
two range gates as shown in Fig. 1.
some concerns in practical application of this Tac es-
timator are given here. There are three application-depen-
dent problems not included in the estimator of (24). First, 
the shadowing effect of the near vessel to the far vessel 
needs to be compensated. a similar problem that might 
need compensation is the beam gain variation along the 
beam path. If they were not compensated for, the Tac 
estimate would be biased. second, for in vivo conditions, 
there are microbubbles inside the testing tissue; this might 
cause additional error if not compensated for. Finally, the 
tissue length L must also be estimated from the received 
echoes, the inaccuracy of that estimate might cause ad-
ditional error.
another concern is that the estimator needs a large 
number of independent samples. This may make the es-
timation time become quite long. developing estimators 
with higher efficiency could be a future research direction. 
a possible way to improve the efficiency is to develop a 
wideband estimator, which needs to deal with the dis-
torted doppler spectrum of moving bubbles. In addition, 
the lifetime of microbubbles may put a constraint on the 
achievable sample size. Thus, fast estimation methods need 
to be developed to overcome the sample size constraint 
within a finite estimation time. For further improvement, 
techniques for compensating the power relation of first 
and second harmonic may be developed to ensure that the 
Tac estimator is unbiased. Finally, in vivo experiments 
may be pursued to characterize tumor or other tissue dis-
eases, which will be a challenge for this estimator.
acknowledgment
The authors thank the anonymous reviewers, whose com-
ments made this paper more complete. We also thank dr. 
m.-T. lo for discussions in the early stage of this work.
2660 IEEE TransacTIons on UlTrasonIcs, FErroElEcTrIcs, and FrEqUEncy conTrol, vol. 57, no. 12, dEcEmbEr 2010
TablE II. statistics of the Estimated Tac Using the 
Fundamental and second Harmonics for Eight different 
Frequencies. 
Frequency 
(mHz)
α (db/cm/mHz)
mean standard deviation
1.875 0.19 0.0498
2.000 0.33 0.0440
2.125 0.37 0.0398
2.250 0.71 0.0378
3.750 0.49 0.0094
4.000 0.41 0.0132
4.250 0.46 0.0168
4.500 0.39 0.0173
The sample size Q is 2500 for all cases.
Fig. 6. The estimates of Tac using the fundamental and second har-
monic.
出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文 
 
 
計畫主持人：曹建和 計畫編號：99-2221-E-002-048-  
計畫名稱：一個用於二次諧波脈衝壓縮成像之多頻合成技術 
 
第四屆圖像與信號處理 和 生物醫學工程與資訊學國際學術會議(BMEI 2011) 
2011 The 4th International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and 
Informatics, IEEE-BME/東華大學主辦, Shanghai, China 15-17 October 2011 
 
生醫工程方面共發表519篇論文，含大陸466 篇、台灣11 篇、其他國家42 篇，本
人共發表兩篇： 
 
S.P. Chen, S.K. Tsao and J. Tsao, "A Joint Time-Frequency Approach to Mean Scatterer 
Spacing Estimation," pp. 605-609. 
Y.T. Lin, S.S. Hseu, H.W. Yien and J. Tsao, "Analyzing autonomic activity 
in electrocardiography about general anesthesia by spectrogram with 
multitaper time-frequency reassignment," pp. 633-637. 
 
                                                                                                                                          606
defined by 1 2f f=  is equivalent to the power spectral density 
(PSD) of ( )y t  [10]. 
Simon.et.al., proposed an algorithm in 1997, which exploits 
the spectral redundancy present in the backscattered echo 
signal by generating spectral lines through a nonlinear 
(quadratic) transformation of the RF echo signal. This 
algorithm is a one-dimensional approach; therefore, it is 
computationally efficient [8]. Briefly, the operations to obtain 
an MSS estimate by Simon’s method are: (1) squaring the RF 
signal, (2) calculating the FFT of result, (3) finding the largest 
spectral peak inside an admissible search range, where the 
periodicity is expected to be [10][8].  
Simon’s method is a robust and computationally efficient 
algorithm. However, it has some problems (or difficulties) 
when applying it to real data. The first is that its estimation 
must be limited in an admissible range, due to the position and 
amplitude irregularities of coherent scatterers. For simulation 
data, the spacing between coherent scatterers can be controlled 
to satisfy the assumed scattering model. However, in the real 
data, it is difficult to ensure the spacing of scatterer can be 
limited within the admissible range. The second is the 
presence of strong reflecting structures, such as vessels. The 
determination of MSS is confused by the simultaneous 
presence of reflecting structures and coherent scatterers inside 
a sample volume. There were many more interference peaks in 
the spectra of the liver data than in those from the spleen data; 
they may correspond to both of the regularity of underlying 
tissue structure and the coherent reflections from vessel walls . 
The third is window size sensitivity. Real dada can not be free 
from the effect of attenuation, which enhances low-frequency 
responses. Inappropriate selection of the window size of data 
segment will increase the possibility of low-frequency 
interference. 
Due to the above problems, it is hard to estimate the MSS of 
coherent scatterers reliably. For Simon’s method, there are 
errors caused by false peaks in the spectrum which are 
detected instead of the actual fundamental harmonic peak, 
hence we develop a joint estimator based on Wagner’s method, 
which uses the autocorrelation of RF line intensity and 
Simon’s method together to reduce the errors. Candidate 
estimates from both methods are checked crossly to find an 
optimal pair of estimates which satisfies the inversion relation 
between time and frequency. 
The main objective of this work is to investigate the 
potential of this proposed method for estimating MSS when 
applied to simulated and real backscattered echoes from in 
vivo liver. 
II. THEORIES 
A. Signal Model 
The signal model composes of coherent (or regular) 
scatterers, diffused scatterers and white noise. The model is 
based on the one suggested by Varghese et. al. [6,9] and 
Simon et. al. [7] as 
 
( ) ( ) ( )x t s t p t= ∗         (2) 
1 1
( ) ( ) ( )
S DN N
k k k k
k k
s t u t v tδ φ δ θ
= =
= − + −∑ ∑      (3) 
where ku  and kφ  represent the amplitude and delay of the 
kth regular scatterer, SN  denotes the number of regular 
scatterers, kv  and kθ  represent the amplitude and delay of 
the kth diffuse scatterer, DN denotes the number of diffuse 
scatterers and ( )p t  is the interrogating pulse signal.  
All of the model parameters in (3) are random variables. 
For the MSS estimation problem, the quantity to estimate is 
the mean spacing of the coherent scatterers, i.e., 1( )k kφ φ −− . 
Depending on the statistical properties of ku  and kφ , the 
coherent scatterers may have different degree of regularity. 
When both of ku  and 1( )k kφ φ −−  approach constants, the 
coherent scatterers are highly regular. The ratio between the 
powers of ku  and kv  can be defined as coherent to diffusive 
ratio (CDR). When regularity of coherent scatterers and CDR 
are high, the task of MSS estimation will be easy. For real 
tissue scatterers, their regularity and CDR may have a wide 
variety, which make the MSS estimation problem difficult. 
 
B. MSS Estimation in Time Domain 
Wagner et.al. proposed to use the autocorrelation function 
of RF line intensity for estimating MSS [9]. Let the envelope 
of RF signal ( )x t  be ( )A t and the intensity signal be 
2( ) ( )I t A t= , the time-averaged autocorrelation function of the 
intensity signal is ( ) ( ) ( )IR I t I tτ τ= + . 
Ideally, when both CDR and scatterer regularity are high, 
the averaged autocorrelation function has a periodic structure. 
The lag value separating the correlation peaks of ( )IR τ  can 
be used to estimate MSS. However, if the CDR or scatterer 
regularity is low, the correlation peaks may be dominated by 
speckle and hard to be used for MSS estimation. 
 
C. MSS Estimation in Frequency Domain  
The MSS estimation method proposed by Simon et.al. is a 
frequency domain method which exploits the spectral 
redundancy present in the backscattered echo signal by 
generating spectral lines through a nonlinear transformation of 
the RF echo signal [7,8,10]. The simplest one is to use the 
quadratic transformation. Simon et.al. uses the Fourier 
transform of 2 ( )x t  to estimate MSS, which is defined as: 
2( ) FT ( )S x tγ ⎡ ⎤≡ ⎣ ⎦ .        (4) 
Based on Fourier theory, the Fourier transform of a 
squared signal is a spectrum corresponding to the 
autocorrelation function of the spectrum of ( )x t . That is 
( )S γ  a spectral correlation function (SCF) and the variable 
γ  represents the spacing between two frequencies, like 
                                                                                                                                          608
simulator varies one of the following parameters each time: 
standard deviation of regular spacing, diffuse to regular 
amplitude ratio, and mean scatterer spacing. 
 
B. simulation results 
Simulation data were generated using the model given in 
(2) and (3). The parameters used in simulation are: MSS μ is 
1.5 mm, standard deviation of the spacing’s of regular 
scatterers σ varies from 1% to 25% of of mean spacing μ, the 
length of data segment for MSS estimation is 15 mm, the 
diffuse to regular amplitude ratio is 10%, and the regular + 
diffuse to white noise SNR is 20dB. The density of the diffuse 
scatterers contained about 15 scatterers per micrometer. Fig. 
2-a and 2-b show two typical waveforms of the simulated RF 
signal with σ/μ=1% and σ/μ=25%. The data were used to 
estimate MSS’s using the proposed method (i.e., with JFT 
scheme) and using the Simon’s method (i.e., without JFT 
scheme). 
To show the sensitivity of Simon’s method to its search 
range. Two tests were done using two kinds of search range: 
(0.5mm ~ 3.3mm) and (0.5mm ~ 4.0mm). Thus there are two 
set of estimates using Simon’s methods, which are compared 
with the estimates of the proposed method. Note that the 
proposed method has only one set of estimates. 
Fig. 3 show the comparison of the proposed method with 
Simon’s method using the first kind of search range (0.5mm ~ 
3.3mm). This test shows that the MSS’s estimated with and 
without using JTF scheme have approximately the same 
precision. By comparing with Fig. 4, it can be found that the 
precision of Simon’s method is achieved by the tight search 
range used. 
Fig. 4 show the comparison of the proposed method with 
Simon’s method using the second kind of search range 
(0.5mm ~ 4.0mm). This test shows that the MSS’s estimated 
with and without using JTF scheme have apparent difference. 
This is due to a loose search range used in Simon’s method. 
The mean and standard deviation of MSS estimates obtained 
using proposed method are smaller than or equal to those 
using Simon’s method, depending on the regularity parameter 
σ/μ. Regardless of mean and standard deviation of MSS, 
performances of Simon’s method degrade apparently when 
σ/μ>=5%. This shows that the accuracy of Simon’s methods is 
sensitive to the regularity of scatter, and the sensitivity is 
search-range dependent (comparing Fig. 3 with 4). 
 
C. In vivo human liver tissue experiment 
Radio-Frequency echo waveforms backscattered from in 
vivo human liver were collected using a scanner made by 
Terason (Burlington, U.S.A.). The probe used is a 4-MHz 
broadband transducer (Ultrason 7L3) focused at 5.5 cm.  
After measurements, signals from histological regions were 
segmented for latter processing. The data were label according 
to the results of biopsy, which classifies to class tissue 
according to the scores F1, F2, F3 and F4 of the METAVIR 
scoring system (Poynard et al. 1997). The subjects of the study 
were in-patients at National Taiwan University Hospital. 
There are 10 women and 21 men. The average age is 44 years 
old (23~71years old). All cases underwent liver biopsy by 
Attending Physician. None of the fatty liver patients had a 
history of alcohol abuse. During data collection, patients lying 
supine and an oblique scan was performed along the 
intercostals space on the left side. To reduce motion artifacts, 
the patients were asked to take a deep breath and keep 
breathless. 
There were 15 patients scored as F1, no patient scored as 
F2, 16 patients scored as F3 and 2 patients scored as F4. 
Because case number of F2 and F4 are too few, they were 
excluded from analysis. The length of ROI ranges from 2cm to 
3.3cm, the anterior data (less than 3cm from transducer) is not 
selected for analysis because of reverberation artifact. Regions 
that may include specular reflectors such as blood vessels are 
avoided visually. When doing MSS estimation, the data 
segment size is fixed to be 6mm. There were 22 ROI’s of F1 
and 22 ROI’s of F3. 
1 2 5 10 15 20 25
1
1.5
2
mean
(a) /μ (%)
m
ss
(m
m
)
 
 
with JTF
without JTF
1 2 5 10 15 20 25
0
0.5
1
std
(b) /μ (%)
(m
ss
(m
m
)
 
 
with JTF
without JTF
 
Figure 4. Performances of the MSS estimators with regular scatterers 
varying different standard deviation from 1% to 25%, search range is 
0.5mm~4.0mm. (a) the mean and (b) the standard deviation of MSS 
estimates 
0 5 10 15 20
-1
0
1
                                     (a)                                mm  
0 5 10 15 20
-1
0
1
                                     (b)                                mm  
Fig.2 Samples of simulated data with (a) σ/μ=1% (b) σ/μ=25% 
1 2 5 10 15 20 25
1
1.5
2
mean
(a) /μ (%)
m
ss
(m
m
)
 
 
with JTF
without JTF
1 2 5 10 15 20 25
0
0.5
1
std
(b) /μ (%)
m
ss
(m
m
)
 
 
with JTF
without JTF
 
Fig. 3. Performances of the MSS estimators with regular scatterers 
varying different standard deviation from 1% to 25%, search range is 
0.5mm~3.3mm. (a) the mean and (b) the standard deviation of MSS 
estimates. 
                                 978-1-4244-9350-0/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE                                 633
2011 4th International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics (BMEI)                       
Analyzing autonomic activity in electrocardiography 
about general anesthesia by spectrogram with 
multitaper time-frequency reassignment 
Yu-Ting Lin† 
Department of Anesthesiology, Shin Kong Wu Ho-Su 
Memorial Hospital and Graduate Institute of Biomedical 
Electronics and Bioinformatics, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan  
 
Huey-Wen Yien 
Department of Anesthesiology, Taipei Veterans General 
Hospital and YongLin Healthcare Foundation, Taipei, 
Taiwan 
Shu-Shya Hseu 
Department of Anesthesiology,  
Taipei Veterans General Hospital and National Yang-
Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan 
 
Jenho Tsao* 
Graduate Institute of Biomedical Electronics and 
Bioinformatics, National Taiwan University,  
Taipei, Taiwan 
 
Abstract—Autonomic nerve activities in human body under 
general anesthesia are dynamic and diverse. Respiratory sinus 
arrhythmia is associated with depth of anesthesia, which exists in 
the high-frequency region of RRI (beat-to-beat R-peak interval) 
spectrum. Analyzing RRI variation in electrocardiography by 
classical power spectrum is insufficient because of the lack of 
temporal resolution. To better understand autonomic activity 
during anesthesia, we used spectrogram of RRI to extract its 
instantaneous information. For improving visual resolution, we 
choose a newly developed technique, multitaper time-frequency 
reassignment (MTFR), to estimate spectrograms. The technique 
provides time-varying spectrogram for RRI with good 
performance in time-frequency resolution and low fluctuation. 
Real-life cases are used to demonstrate the variety of autonomic 
activity presented clearly by the MTFR spectrogram, compared 
with Gabor spectrogram. Their implications in depth of 
anesthesia are discussed. 
Keywords-autonomic nerve activity; depth of anesthesia; 
multitaper time frequency reassignment; electrocardiography; 
respiratory sinus arrhythmia 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
By regulating the vital functions in human body and 
responding to emergency, autonomic nerve system is essential 
to life and its response to external environment should be quick. 
Although outside of consciousness, it influences human body 
under general anesthesia, and anesthetic drugs also exert 
significant effect on autonomic nerve system. The information 
about autonomic activity might be valuable for clinical 
management of patient under general anesthesia. 
Measuring autonomic activity from electrocardiography 
(ECG) by beat-to-beat heart variation is a non-invasive and 
popular technique. Heart rate variability (HRV) can be derived 
from R-to-R peak interval (RRI) in ECG signal, separated into 
different frequency range by power spectrum analysis, and 
mapped to sympathetic and parasympathetic nerve system 
 
† linyuting@hotmail.com.tw       * tsaor215@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
activity [1]. Currently HRV is not adopted in real life 
anesthesia. Part of the reason for this is because of the technical 
issues stated below. One prominent property of autonomic 
activity during anesthesia is swift and intense response to 
maintain subconscious body function within seconds. For 
instance, intravenous anesthetic drugs exert hypnotic effect for 
less than 30 seconds. Adjusting level of anesthetic effect by 
changing the concentration of gaseous anesthetic drugs is 
conveniently quick compare to medication taken from oral or 
any other route. The response to surgical stimulation is 
instantaneous and intense. Under such situation, the first 
emerging issue is that spectral analysis does not provide time 
information to corresponding clinical events. A power 
spectrum with sliding window is an immediate solution; this 
approach still needs to assume stationarity within the period of 
window. The second issue is resolution. Considering the 
situation that only one to two heart beats per second can be 
obtained from ECG for autonomic analysis. The analyzing 
method should be efficient in extracting information from 
limited heart beats data. Thus good resolution in both time and 
frequency is demanding. The above two issues make us choose 
time-frequency analysis. The stochastic nature in RRI, which 
will be shown later, gives rise to the third issue: the spectral 
estimation for random process.  
The achievement of power spectrum in HRV analysis 
implies that concept of wave plays an important role. Therefore, 
we do not abandon power spectrum, but extend its concept and 
ability by adopting time-frequency analysis. Extracting 
autonomic information relevant to anesthesia from ECG is 
analogous to listening speech from acoustic pressure in air. The 
time-varying ability of time-frequency analysis has been used 
to analyzing RRI during induction of general anesthesia [2]. 
We choose multitaper time-frequency reassignment (MTFR) 
spectrogram [3], which belongs to time-frequency analysis and 
handles the above three issues well, to extract time-varying 
frequency information. In the following sections, we are to 
describe the advantages of using MTFR spectrogram. Three 
real-life cases demonstrate that autonomic activities in RRI 
                                                                                                                                          635
 
Figure 1.  The upper graph is MTFR spectrogram and the lower one is 
STFT spectrogram of RRI. RRI, the inverse of heart rate, is superimposed 
on graph as red lines. 
described by Flandrin et al [5]. The result of MTFR is an 
arithmetic mean of 10 estimates of reassigned spectrogram. 
The 2-D time-frequency plane is presented as a two-
dimensional graph of power, whose abscissa is time, ordinate is 
frequency and color represents power in logarithmic scale. 
Selecting K=10 as the number of Hermite windows is 
empirical. It is a balanced point between computational 
efficiency, variance reduction and sharp resolution. When the 
number of Hermite tapers increases, the bias and variance 
errors decrease consistently. This advantage is possible only 
when reassignment is combined with multitaper method, which 
is showed by Xiao and Flandrin [3]. This benefit costs more 
computation as Hermite tapers number becomes higher, and the 
result of 10 tapers is satisfying in our study.  
Contrary to short-time Fourier transform, different window 
size does not affect resolution of reassignment. However, the 
size of window should be at least larger than the period of 
lowest frequency component we want to observe. Window with 
300 data points sampled at 4 Hz was chosen empirically. 
Because the frequency domain measure of HRV uses 0.04Hz 
as lower bound of low frequency power, this window, spanning 
75 second, can properly contain the low frequency activity. 
IV. REAL-LIFE CASE DEMONSTRATIONS 
Three real-life cases are demonstrated using the RRI 
sequences derived from the ECG recorded during general 
anesthesia. Both results from MTFR spectrogram and classical 
STFT spectrogram were presented. The STFT spectrogram was 
calculated with the 1st Hermite function window, i.e. the 
Gaussian window. Therefore it is a Gabor spectrogram using 
only the first window of MTFR spectrogram. The other settings 
are same as those for MTFR spectrogram given above. 
CASE 1: 
Fig. 1 shows a 500-second segment of RRI series overlaid 
on the spectrograms, which came from a female receiving 
general anesthesia for surgery, breathing spontaneously at the 
beginning of anesthesia. To protect breath during anesthesia, an 
airway device, laryngeal mask airway was placed at 100 
second. Although the patient was unconscious, this event 
elicited autonomic response to noxious stimulus, which can be 
observed in RRI signal. After 200 second, mechanical 
ventilation was started at a rate of 12 per minute. Near 400 
second, the respiratory sinus arrhythmia in RRI suddenly 
became very small. 
The MTFR spectrogram provides good time localization at 
100 second, the time of noxious stimulus. Inspecting the RRI 
tracing in Fig. 1, one can realize that the low frequency 
response is similar to one half of a complete sine wave, whose 
time and frequency are analytically uncertain. From 200 to 400 
second, it reveals multi-component, time-varying respiratory 
activity contributed by time-varying spontaneous breath and 
constant-rate ventilation with good frequency resolution. Near 
400 seconds MTFR spectrogram provides better temporal 
resolution to abrupt change of RRI pattern than STFT 
spectrogram. Overall, MTFR spectrogram provides better time-
frequency resolution, especially the temporal resolution of low-
frequency components, than STFT spectrogram, which is 
plagued by spurious spectral leakage in low-frequency region. 
CASE 2:  
In Fig. 2, it shows a 375-second segment of RRI came from 
a female breathing spontaneously, waking form anesthesia. 
Objective indices of anesthetic depth were recorded 
simultaneously, which include the Bispectral® index, a 
processed electroencephalography (EEG) for monitoring depth 
of anesthesia, and the effect site concentration of anesthetic gas 
(Sevoflurane®). The spectrograms demonstrate a transition 
from deterministic to stochastic HRV patterns, which 
correspond to transition from deep to light level of anesthesia.  
This case demonstrates a simultaneous need of good time 
resolution and spectral stability. An ideal spectrum of white 
noise should be uniform. Thanks to multitaper, the MTFR 
spectrum is more uniform (less variation in distribution) than 
STFT spectrogram after 200 second. Meanwhile the 
reassignment provides good time-frequency resolution. To 
further compare the performance of MTFR and STFT, two 
instants of the spectrogram, i.e., spectra are plotted in Fig. 3. 
The blue lines are MTFR spectra and red lines are STFT 
spectra. It is apparent that the variances of the MTFR spectra 
are much less than those of the STFT spectra. This is especially 
important for instant B, since it has low contrast in the high-
frequency region; large variance will mask possible spectral 
features there. 
                                                                                                                                          637
time and frequency of low frequency transient signal, grading 
the transition between deterministic and stochastic patterns and 
other features in terms of signal analysis can be mapped to their 
clinical meanings relevant to the autonomic nerve activities and 
anesthesia.  
V. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS 
The above real-life demonstrations show that the autonomic 
activities derived from ECG during anesthesia, mapped on 
time-frequency plane, are dynamic and diverse. Presented by 
time-frequency analysis, these features describe a broader 
meaning than the integrated power of a frequency band on 
power spectrum. The association between depth of anesthesia 
and spectral analysis of HRV has been described in [6, 7]. We 
found that the transition between deterministic and stochastic 
patterns in high frequency can be associated with different 
level of anesthesia. Because of the close physiologic relation 
between respiration and the autonomic activity in brainstem, 
the pattern transition in respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) 
should result from the change of autonomic activities in brain 
caused by the effect of anesthetic drugs. 
Time-frequency analysis techniques which can deal with 
the multi-component of stochastic signal are more suitable than 
power spectrum analysis techniques in real life situation. Good 
time resolution seems appealing because it can reveal a clinical 
event in definite time. For instance, the localized low frequency 
responds to stimulus in case 1. The proposed MTFR 
spectrogram presents these sophisticated features about 
autonomic activity with good resolution and little fluctuation.  
As regards to the last issue mentioned before: what is the 
appropriate physical model of cardiac autonomic activity in 
anesthesia? A definite answer is currently beyond our ability. 
However, our results support that the concept of time-
frequency is suitable for analyzing the autonomic activities in 
anesthesia; since the time-frequency features observed show 
that their associated autonomic information are encoded in both 
time and frequency, like music and speech. For the description 
of stochastic patterns, spectral estimation of random process is 
required. It reminds us the Wiener’s harmonic analysis [8] 
theories, which might be the theoretical base for modeling the 
autonomic activity in anesthesia in the future. 
The physiological mechanism and clinical meanings of 
time-frequency features deserve further exploration. As a 
limitation to applications, the ECG needs to be of normal sinus 
rhythm. So, arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation or pacemaker 
rhythm prevents intra-operative use of this technique. Once the 
clinical meanings of the time-frequency features can be 
determined and the methodology can be implemented as a real-
time monitoring tool, we expect to exploit extra information 
about autonomic nerve system and anesthesia in routine ECG.  
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Task Force of the European Society of Cardiology and the North 
American Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology, “Heart rate 
variability: standards of measurement, physiological interpretation and 
clinical use,” Circulation., vol. 93, no. 5 pp. 1043–1065, March 1996. 
[2] H.H. Huang, H.L. Chan, P.L. Lin, C.P. Wu and C.H. Huang, “Time-
frequency spectral analysis of heart rate variability during induction of 
general anaesthesia”  British Journal of Anaesthesia, vol 79, no 6, pp. 
754-758, 1997. 
[3] J. Xiao and P. Flandrin, “Multitaper Time-Frequency Reassignment for 
Nonstationary Spectrum Estimation and Chirp Enhancement,” IEEE 
Trans. Signal Process., vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 2851–2860, June 2007. 
[4] P. Flandrin, Time-Frequency/Time-Scale Analysis. New York: 
Academic, 1999. 
[5] F. Auger and P. Flandrin, “Improving the readability of time-frequency 
and time-scale representations by the reassignment method,” IEEE 
Trans. Signal Process., vol. 43, no. 5, pp. 1068–1089, May 1995. 
[6] D.C. Galletly, A.M. Westenberg, B.J. Robinson and T. Corfiatis, “Effect 
of halothane, isoflurane and fentanyl on spectral components of heart 
rate variability,” British Journal of Anaesthesia, vol. 72, no. 2, pp. 177-
180, 1994. 
[7] M. Kato, T. Komatsu, T. Kimura, F. Sugiyama, K. Nakashima and Y. 
Shimada, “Spectral analysis of heart rate variability during isoflurane 
anesthesia,” Anesthesiology., vol. 77, no. 4, pp. 669–674, October 1992. 
[8] S. M. Kay, Modern Spectral Estimation: Theory and Application. 
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1988. 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：曹建和 計畫編號：99-2221-E-002-048- 
計畫名稱：一個用於二次諧波脈衝壓縮成像之多頻合成技術 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
