interval and ST segment. Finally, an ANN is used to 
classify different heart diseases. Although there is 
fundamental different from ECG signal, the blood 
pressure signal must go through similar processes of 
filtering, characteristic point identification, 
computation of characteristic value and 
classification to achieve the goal of diagnosis 
assistance. 
Thus, this project proposes to establish an open 
source software bank, the user can select different 
filter, extraction, analysis and classification 
software from the software bank and freely combines 
them together to form an special purpose biomedical 
signal processing application software. In order to 
achieve this goal, every open source software in this 
software bank must have comparable interface. 
This project re-write, according to the regulation of 
open source, some of the most common signal 
processing algorithms, including filtering, 
characteristic point extraction, characteristic value 
computation and classification, to form an open 
source software bank. At the end of this project, an 
open source signal processing software band with the 
ability of freely combination will be established. 
Other software programmer can contribute their signal 
processing routines. 
 
英文關鍵詞： open source, signal processing 
 
 2 
中文摘要 
每個生理訊號，不論是心電圖(ECG)、血壓(blood pressure)或血氧濃度(SpO2)，都有用來協助診斷
的功能。可是在萃取這些有效的臨床資訊以前，訊號必頇經過濾波、特徵擷取、特徵值運算以及分類
等運算才能進一步的加以利用。 
另一方面，一個開放式的訊號處理軟體環境，除了要達到基本的開放式軟體要求以外，更需要讓
不同的使用者針對不同的訊號都能迅速的選擇所需要的處理運算加以組合成為一個精確又有效的特化
軟體。例如:要利用 ECG 進行心電圖診斷首先必頇要進行高、低通濾波，擷取 R 波、T 波等特徵，運
算 RR 間期 (RR interval)、QRS 間期或 ST 片段(ST segment)的準位。最後再利用如類神經網路(ANN)、
規則式(rule base)等分類的軟體，達到分類診斷的目的。其他訊號如血壓、肌電圖(EMG)等，雖然訊號
的特性與 ECG 相異，要擷取的特徵也不同，可是也必頇經過類似的過程，濾波、特徵擷取、特徵值運
算以及分類，才能達到輔助診斷的目的。 
因此，本研究提議建構一個類似自助式套餐的開放軟体，使用者可以自開放式軟體庫中選取不同
的濾波、擷取、分析、分類等軟體函式自由組合，以建構所需的特化生醫訊號處理程序。然而，要達
到提議的特性，本研究所建構的開放式軟體庫中的每個軟體必頇具有相同或相容的介面，如此不同的
軟體函式組合時才能順利的結合。 
本研究將目前常見的濾波、擷取、分析、分類等處理軟體依據開放式程式撰寫的規範重新撰寫，
制定各軟體函式間共用的介面，以達到公開、共用的目的。本研究已建構一組能讓使用者自由搭配的
訊號處理函式庫，同時開放給其他軟體撰寫人員加入適當的訊號處理函式。 
關鍵字: 開放軟体，訊號處理 
英文摘要 
Every biomedical signal, for example: ECG, blood pressure or SpO2, has the capability to assist 
diagnosis. However, clinical information must be extracted through filtering, characteristic extraction, 
characteristic extraction and classification from these signals. 
On the other hand, an open source signal processing software, in addition to the basic open source 
requirement, it needs to be flexible enough for the user to generate specified application software. For 
example, the ECG signal must be filtered, extracted the peak and onset of R and T waves, obtain RR interval 
and ST segment. Finally, an ANN is used to classify different heart diseases. Although there is fundamental 
different from ECG signal, the blood pressure signal must go through similar processes of filtering, 
characteristic point identification, computation of characteristic value and classification to achieve the goal 
of diagnosis assistance. 
Thus, this project proposes to establish an open source software bank, the user can select different filter, 
extraction, analysis and classification software from the software bank and freely combines them together to 
form an special purpose biomedical signal processing application software. In order to achieve this goal, 
every open source software in this software bank must have comparable interface. 
This project re-write, according to the regulation of open source, some of the most common signal 
processing algorithms, including filtering, characteristic point extraction, characteristic value computation 
and classification, to form an open source software bank. At the end of this project, an open source signal 
processing software band with the ability of freely combination will be established. Other software 
programmer can contribute their signal processing routines. 
 4 
+bool SetPro(int *); 
+int * GetPro(); 
+bool SetActive(bool); 
+bool GetActive(); 
+bool SetProcess(action *); 
+bool Execution(); 
SetSamplingFreq(int); 
+double *GetOrgSig(); 
+bool SetOrgSig(double *); 
+double * GetProSig(); 
+bool SetProSig(double *); 
+bool SetOrgSigDim(dim); 
+bool SetProSigDim(dim); 
+dim GetOrgSigDim(); 
+dim GetProSigDim(); 
+bool GetOrgSet(); 
+bool GetProSet(); 
+bool SetOrgSet(bool); 
+bool SetProSet(bool); 
-signal<T> * sig; 
-int NoProcess; 
-action *Process; 
-bool active; 
-int SamplingFreq;     
-int Channel; 
-int Length;                
-double *OrgSig 
-double *ProSig;        
-bool OrgSet; 
-bool ProSet;              
-dim OrgSigDim 
-dim ProSigDim; 
 
本研究目前共實現兩大類型的生理訊號讀取模組:DICOM waveform 以及 txt 模式。其中
DICOM 模式是目前醫院中繼 HL7 後在醫療機構中常被使用的生醫訊號格式。DICOM (Digital 
Imaging and COmmunication in Medicine )是美國放射學會(American College of Radiology, ACR)和
國家電子製造商協會(National Electrical Manufactorers Association, NEMA)主導、制定的用於數位化
醫學影像傳送、顯示與存儲的標準。1999 年 DICOM 開始制定 Supplement 30 Waveform Interchange。 
DICOM 的檔案格式分為 Header 及 Data Set(圖 1)，每一個 Data Set 又可區分成 Explicit 和
Implicit 兩種編碼方式。他們最大的差異是 Explicit 編碼含有 VR 這個項目。 
 6 
本研究自 3506 個 tag 中讀取出與病人、儀器以及訊號相關的資訊。同時利用 Transfer Syntax
區分並實現 implicit 以及 explicit 兩大類型的 DICOM 檔讀取功能。其中，Transfer Syntax 代表的是
編碼(encoding) 的規則  (big endian, or little endian, explicit or implicit)與有無壓縮( lossless or 
lossy)。例如 Transfer Syntax 若為 1.2.840.10008.1.2 .1，代表 Little Endian Implicit，而 Transfer Syntax
等於 1.2.840.10008.1.2 則代表 explicit。 
DICOM 檔讀取功能的執行畫面，可參見圖 3。 
 
B. 濾波器函式庫 
本研究完成 FIR 濾波器設計介面，使用兩種 FIR 濾波器設計理論(weighted Fourier series 以及 
Kaiser window)，完成高通(圖 4)、低通(圖 5)濾波器設計。 
 
圖 4-以濾波器函式庫設計的高通濾波器 
 
圖 5-以濾波器函式庫設計的低通濾波器 
 8 
 Differentiator 
 Absolute value  
 Moving averaging  
 Thresholding  
圖八-使用範例 
四、 需求規格完成度 
規劃書所列出的需求規格如表 2，其中絕大多數的需求皆已達成，未能實現的需求有分類模組，
在 IT5 測試案例，原預期能在分類上實現類神經網路，分類出應對的病徵給使用者做參考。但原構想
使用者選擇
的處理 
 10 
七、 測試完整性 
輸入輸出檔案讀取功能與公開的 DICOM reader 比較，共測試四組 DICOM 訊號。其中兩組之結果
相同。另兩組，公開的 DICOM reader 無法讀出其內容，而本系統則可成功的讀取出訊號。所有實現的
特徵點與特徵值之運算均利用上述四組 DICOM 訊號，每組訊號各有 12 個頻道，共在這些訊號中隨機
選取 100 個間期，與 Matlab 驗證比較，所有結果均無誤。FIR 濾波器設計驗證方面，利用 10 組不同的
截止頻率與設定參數設計高、低通濾波器，其結果與 Matlab 相比較。除了兩組因參數設定有誤而產生
程式當機以外，其他的設計結果均與 Matlab 相同。 
 
八、 結論 
本研究完成一系統雛型，後續仍頇對其中分析以及分類部分再持續發展。本研究是本團隊第一次
執行此類型的研究計畫，因此欠缺相關規劃、測試的經驗，所以，計畫執行中多以其他計畫的文件、
記錄為範本。經由本計畫的執行，以後對相似的計畫規劃、執行與測試將更能得心應手。 
 
 12 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議是 IEEE 醫學工程學會(EMBS)的年度研討會，是醫學工程界每年一度的盛
會。此次會議的會議地點是在美國麻州波士頓市，是哈佛大學以及 MIT 的所在地是
世界學術界的重地。 
 
本次會議約有 3、4000 人與會，發表的論文共大分為 11 個主題，如生醫訊號處理，
心血管與呼吸系統，神經與復健醫學等。每個主題再細分為 7 到 13 個小的論壇
(track)，因此會議安排在同一個時段有多個口頭報告同時進行，這對與會者造成些許
的困擾，因為，可能必頇在同一個時段裡到不同的場地聆聽有興趣的報告。可是大
會也很貼心的把所有的壁報展示安排在每天的兩個沒有口頭報告的時段，如此，所
有與會的人員均可以參觀所有的壁報展示，壁報的發表者也可以在展示時間專心的
與參觀者解說、討論。可是由於場地的問題，壁報展示是在距離主要會場 10 分鐘以
外的另一個地點，雖然兩個場地之間有室內的走道相連，可是也造成相當的不便。 
計畫編號 NSC 99－2220－E－033－001－ 
計畫名稱 可自由搭配之開放式生醫訊號處理軟體 
出國人員
姓名 
徐良育 
服務機構
及職稱 
中原大學生物醫學工程學系 
教授 
會議時間 
2011年 8月 30 
日至 
2011年 9月 3日 
會議地點 
國家：美國   
城市：波士頓 
會議名稱 
(中文)第 33屆國際醫學工程學會國際學術研討會議 
(英文)33rd Annual International Conference of the IEEE 
Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC ’11) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
( 英 文 ) A Novel System for Continuous Peripheral Arterial 
Pressure-Volume Loop Measurement 
附件四 
 14 
 16 
Nathalia Peixoto George Mason University 
Sam Sia Columbia University 
Toshiyo Tamura Chiba University 
Track 3.1 Physical Sensors and Sensor Systems 
Track 3.2 Bioelectric Sensors 
Track 3.3 Biological and Chemical Sensors and Systems 
Track 3.4 Physiological Monitoring: Instrumentation, Technology and Integrated Systems 
Track 3.5 Implantable Technologies and Systems 
Track 3.6 Wearable Sensors Technology and Instrumentation 
Track 3.7 Integrated Wearable and Portable Systems 
Track 3.8 Microfluidics 
Track 3.9 Nano-Bio Technology 
Theme 4. Bioinformatics and Computational Biology; Systems Biology, Modeling 
Methodologies 
Theme Chairs 
Shahram Ebadollahi International Business Machines (IBM) 
John Gohagan National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
Bruce Tidor Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) 
Lipo Wang Nanyang Technical University, Singapore 
Track 4.1 Systems Biology and Cancer Prevention 
Track 4.2 Synthetic Biology and Artificial Cell Technology 
Track 4.3 Synthetic Control Systems in Biomedical Applications 
Track 4.4 Systems Modeling for Therapeutics and Medical Decision Making 
Track 4.5 Model Building for Experimental and Therapeutic Study Design 
Track 4.6 Bioinformatics and Computational Modeling of Complex ‘Omic Data 
Track 4.7 Mining clinical Data – Applications in Comparative Effectiveness Research 
Track 4.8 Information Visualization for Discovery and Insight Generation in the 
Biomedical Domain 
Theme 5. Cardiovascular and Respiratory Systems Engineering 
Theme Chairs 
Nicholas Chbat Philips Research North America 
Michael Khoo University of Southern California (USC) 
Kenji Sungawa Kyushu University, Japan 
Natalia Trayanova Johns Hopkins University 
Track 5.1 Cardiac Mechanics, Function, and Modeling 
Track 5.2 Vascular Disease, Mechanics, and Hemodynamics 
Track 5.3 Pulmonary and Critical Care 
Track 5.4 Coronary Blood Flow Dynamics and Measurement 
Track 5.5 Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Modeling 
Track 5.6 Respiratory Mechanics and Control 
Track 5.7 Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Signal Processing 
 18 
Theme Chairs 
Ugo Della Croce University of Sassari 
Alexander König ETH Zurich, Switzerland 
Marko Popovic Worcester Polytechnic Institute 
Track 8.1 Orthotic Biomechanics and Robotics 
Track 8.2 Prosthetic Biomechanics and Robotics: Artificial Organs/Limbs 
Track 8.3 Rehabilitation Robotics and Biomechanics: Therapy, Assistance and Clinical 
Evaluation 
Track 8.4 Human-Robot Interaction and Robot-aided Living for a Healthier Tomorrow 
Track 8.5 Sports, Exercise and Games: Biomechanics and Robotics 
Track 8.6 Robot-aided Surgery 
Track 8.7 Biologically Inspired Robotics and Micro-(bio)robotics 
Track 8.8 New Technologies and Methodologies in Medical Robotics and Biomechanics 
Track 8.9 Neural Control of Movement and Robotics Applications 
Track 8.10 Applied Musculoskeletal Models and Human Movement Analysis 
Theme 9. Therapeutics and Diagnostic Systems, Devices and Technologies, Clinical 
Engineering 
Theme Chairs 
Jennifer Jackson Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Gesù 
Elliot Sloane Drexel University 
Track 9.1 Clinical Engineering and Health Technology Management 
Track 9.2 Diagnostic and Therapeutic Devices, Ambulatory, Home/Personal/Independent 
Living 
Track 9.3 Diagnostic Devices and Instrumentation, General 
Track 9.4 External Therapeutic Devices, General 
Track 9.5 Health Technology Policy, Economics, Ethics, and Health Technology 
Assessment 
Track 9.6 Image-Guided Devices and Therapies 
Track 9.7 Medical Device and System Design and Manufacturing 
Track 9.8 Safety and Human Factors Engineering for Medical Devices and Systems 
Track 9.9 Therapeutic Devices, Internal/Implanted 
Theme 10. Healthcare Information Systems, Telemedicine 
Theme Chairs 
Ilkka Korhonen Tampere University of Technology 
Julien Penders IMEC Netherlands 
Carmen Poon Chinese University of Hong Kong, China 
May Dongmei Wang Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech) and Emory University 
Track 10.1 Personal, Pervasive, Preventive, and Participatory Health Systems 
Track 10.2 Wireless Health Technologies and Body Sensor Networks 
Track 10.3 mHealth 
Track 10.4 eHealth, Telehealth 
 20 
 
Abstract—This study develops a system to obtain continuous blood pressure signal and impedance plethysmography (IPG) signal, 
simultaneously. Based on the principle of impedance measurement, the peripheral vessel volume change can be computed from the IPG 
signal. Equipped with simultaneous information of pressure and volume, a pressure-volume (PV) loop can be constructed. It is well known 
that the left ventricular pressure-volume loop contains a number of feature points indicating the performance of cardiac function. 
Therefore, in this study, the same principle is used to try to discuss the peripheral vessel pressure-volume loop. Ten volunteers were 
recruited for this study. Subjects went through the cold pressor test by immersing their left foot into ice water. Blood pressure signal and 
impedance changed were recorded using a custom-made system. The results illustrated that the pressure-volume loop, as it was expected, 
demonstrated a contraction phenomenon after stimulation in five out of ten subjects. The areas of those pressure-volume loops reduced as 
much as 70% in some subject. However, loop responses to stressors varied from subject to subject and the slope of the loop did not alter 
significantly. In conclusion, the proposed system is a potential way to measure and to investigate the compliance and characteristic of 
peripheral blood vessel. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
RTERIAL compliance has been used to evaluate the prognosis of hypertension during or after the medical interventions [1]. The 
Windkessel model predicts an exponential decay of aortic pressure during diastole period when the flow is zero. This decay is 
characterized by the decay time. Thus, it is possible to estimate the arterial compliance from blood pressure waveform. In the past 
few years, there were numeral methods being proposed to estimate the total arterial compliance from blood pressure waveform 
including the decay time method, the area method and two areas method [2]. On the other hand, by measuring the different between 
pulse wave arrival times at two different locations, the pulse wave velocity (PWV) is now clinically accepted as a reliably method to 
estimate the total arterial compliance. All these methods can only provide single compliance estimation in one cardiac cycle. 
However, it is believed that the arterial compliance does not remain constant during the cardiac cycle. The arterial properties during 
systolic is drastically different from that during diastolic.  
                                                 
Manuscript received April 15, 2011. This work was supported in part by the National Science Council, Taiwan under Grant 98-2221-E-033-063.  
L. Y. Shyu is with the Department of Biomedical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, Chung Li,32023 Taiwan (phone: 886-3-265-4515; fax: 
886-3-265-4599; e-mail: lshyu@be.cycu.edu.tw).  
M. C. Tsai was with the Department of Biomedical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, Chung Li, 32023 Taiwan (e-mail: g9775042@cycu.edu.tw). 
D. F. Yeih was with Far Eastern Memorial Hospital, He is now with the Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine at the National Taiwan 
University Hospital. 
W. C. Hu is with the Department of Biomedical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, Chung Li, 32023 Taiwan (e-mail: weichih@be.cycu.edu.tw). 
A Novel System for Continuous Peripheral Arterial 
Pressure-Volume Loop Measurement 
Liang-Yu Shyu, Member, IEEE, Meng-Chieh Tsai, Dong-Feng Yeih, and Weichih Hu 
A 
 22 
into two distinct parts. The time varying component designated as 
Z is obtained by highpass filtering the thoracic impedance signal. 
On the other hand, the near DC component is known as Z0 [7]. 
B. Continuous Noninvasive Blood Pressure Measurement 
Continuous noninvasive blood pressure waveform can 
be obtained using the two-cuff non-invasive blood 
pressure waveform monitor system. A detail description of the method and circuit can be found in the 
previous publication [3]. In short, the system uses dynamic feedback to maintain constant low cuff pressure at 
40 mmHg. Thus, long term continuous blood pressure waveform monitoring is possible. Two instrumentation 
amplifiers amplify the pressure signals from pressure sensors inside the two pressure cuffs. The amplified 
pressure signal can be separated into two distinct parts. The microcontroller (MSP430F149, Taxes Ins., USA) 
uses the very low frequency component to perform servo control of the cuff pressures around 40mmHg by 
adjusting inputs voltage of the two air pumps. The microcontroller monitors the cuff pressure continuously. 
Whenever the cuff pressure deviated more than 1mmHg from the pre-determined pressure range, the 
controller adjusts the amount of airflow from the pump in order to maintain constant cuff pressure 
dynamically.  
On the other hand, the time varying components are obtained by subtracting these very low frequency 
components from the pressure signal using two subtraction circuits. Two 30Hz lowpass filters reduce noise 
and high frequency components that are generated by pressure adjustment. In this study, only the pressure 
signal form the upper arm was used to construct the pressure-volume loop.  
C. System Hardware 
To construct the peripheral pressure-volume loop, authors propose to combine the continuous blood 
pressure monitoring device with IPG to obtain continuous pressure and volume signals simultaneously. The 
system also include: the analog to digital converter, the digital signal processing module, the peripheral 
devices, the system power supply, the data storage memory, and the RS232 interface circuit (Figure 2.) 
For IPG measurement, the tetrapolar electrode system is used. A low intensive high frequency constant current is injected into the 
subject’s forearm through the two outer electrode bands. The two inner band electrodes sense the small impedance change, during 
each cardiac cycle. The impedance signal is then amplified, processed and used in the estimation of blood volume change. 
Additionally, these four electrodes are combined with the two pressure cuffs for easy operation. 
D. Experiment 
Ten volunteers were recruited for this study. At the beginning of 
the experiment, two appropriately sized blood pressure cuffs were 
P
ressu
re (A
U
) 
Z (AU) 
 
Fig. 1.  Two-compartment model. The blood vessel compartment is 
surrounded by an isotropic tissue compartment to form a uniform 
cylinder 
 
 
Fig. 2.  Block diagram of the proposed system.  
   
 
Fig. 4.  The completed system hardware. Four band electrodes are 
attached to the subject’s arm underneath the blood pressure cuffs.. 
 24 
         
 
 
      
    
50s 10s Baselin
e 
110s 
20s 33s Baselin
e 
45s 
Subject 
B 
Subject 
A 
after treatments. Left-ventricular pressure-volume loop is a well established and comprehensive ways to assess the heart functions. 
However, due to its invasive nature, it is not possible to perform PV loop examination routinely. Additionally, In addition to the 
heart function, the peripheral properties affect the preload and afterload conditions in the heart working cycle.  
The peripheral arterial pressure-volume loop may not provide comparable information as in the LV pressure-volume loop. 
However, it can reveal the dynamic characteristic of peripheral blood vessel. The PV loops obtained in this study suggest that the 
properties of blood vessel went through significant changes during the cold pressor test. However, due to the fact that the pressure 
and volume signals of this study are not fully calibrated, the loop translation phenomenon cannot be observed.  
Cold pressor is known to increase the total peripheral resistance, systolic blood pressure, diastolic pressure and heart rate, 
significantly [8]. And the blood pressure reaction to cold pressor test was regarded as a useful indicator of future hypertension [9]. 
Thus, this study chooses cold pressure as the stressor to alter subject’s physiological condition. However, blood pressure response to 
stressors greatly varied from subject to subject and from test to test within the single subject [9]. Our results also reflect huge inter 
subject and intra subject variations and only five out of ten subjects showed similar PV loop pattern during the test. Additionally, 
the PV loops at difference stage of cold pressor test illustrated drastically changed loop shape and even the loop direction in some 
subjects.  
V. CONCLUSION 
In conclusion, this study developed a system that can measure forearm blood pressure signal and blood volume signal 
simultaneously. Using these two signals, the pressure-volume loop can be created. The shape, area, and slope of this loop are 
expected to provide valuable information about peripheral arteries in the measurement region. Experiment was conducted to alter 
the condition of ten volunteers. As expected, the shape of the loop changed dramatically during cold pressor test. The results 
indicate that changes of peripheral arterial blood vessel property are dynamic and can be studied using this PV loop technique in the 
future. 
REFERENCES 
[1] J. J. Wang, S. H. Liu, T Kao, W. C. Hu, C. P. Liu, “Noninvasive determination of arterial pressure-dependent compliance in young subjects using an arterial 
tonometer,”  Biomed. Eng. Appl. Basis. Comm., 18(3), 2006, pp. 111-118. 
[2] D. A. Self, R. D. Ewert, R. P. Swope, R. D. Latham. “Beat-to-beat estimation of peripheral resistance and arterial compliance during +Gz 
centrifugation,” Aviat Space Environ Med 1994;65:396–403. 
[3] W. 
C. 
 1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議是 IEEE 醫學工程學會(EMBS)的年度研討會，是醫學工程界每年一度的盛
會。此次會議的會議地點是在美國麻州波士頓市，是哈佛大學以及 MIT 的所在地是
世界學術界的重地。 
 
本次會議約有 3、4000人與會，發表的論文共大分為 11個主題，如生醫訊號處理，
心血管與呼吸系統，神經與復健醫學等。每個主題再細分為 7 到 13 個小的論壇
(track)，因此會議安排在同一個時段有多個口頭報告同時進行，這對與會者造成些許
的困擾，因為，可能必須在同一個時段裡到不同的場地聆聽有興趣的報告。可是大
會也很貼心的把所有的壁報展示安排在每天的兩個沒有口頭報告的時段，如此，所
有與會的人員均可以參觀所有的壁報展示，壁報的發表者也可以在展示時間專心的
與參觀者解說、討論。可是由於場地的問題，壁報展示是在距離主要會場 10分鐘以
外的另一個地點，雖然兩個場地之間有室內的走道相連，可是也造成相當的不便。 
計畫編號 NSC 99－2220－E－033－001－ 
計畫名稱 可自由搭配之開放式生醫訊號處理軟體 
出國人員
姓名 
徐良育 
服務機構
及職稱 
中原大學生物醫學工程學系 
教授 
會議時間 
2011年 8月 30 
日至 
2011年 9月 3日 
會議地點 
國家：美國   
城市：波士頓 
會議名稱 
(中文)第 33屆國際醫學工程學會國際學術研討會議 
(英文)33rd Annual International Conference of the IEEE 
Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC ’11) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
( 英 文 ) A Novel System for Continuous Peripheral Arterial 
Pressure-Volume Loop Measurement 
附件四 
 3 
附件一 議程大綱 
Program Themes and Tracks 
Theme 1. Biomedical Signal Processing 
Theme Chairs 
Riccardo Barbieri Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA 
Sergio Cerutti Politecnico di Milano, Milano, Italy 
Yasemin P. Kahya Bogazici University, Istanbul,Turkey 
Jay Tian Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China 
Track 1.1 Time-Frequency and Time-Scale Analysis 
Track 1.2 Signal Processing and Physiological System Modeling 
Track 1.3 Nonlinear Dynamic Analysis of Biomedical Signals 
Track 1.4 Signal Pattern Classification 
Track 1.5 Connectivity, Directionality and Causality 
Track 1.6 Adaptive and Parametric Filtering 
Track 1.7 Neural Networks and Support Vector Machine Applied to Biomedical Signal 
Processing and Classification 
Track 1.8 Coupling and Synchronizations 
Track 1.9 Algorithms for Data Mining and Data Processing 
Track 1.10 Principal Component Analysis and Independent Component Analysis 
Theme 2. Biomedical Image and Image Processing 
Theme Chairs 
Elsa Angelini Institut Telecom, Telecom ParisTech 
Sergio Fantini Tufts University 
Andreas Hielscher Columbia University 
Homer Pien Massachusetts General Hospital 
Track 2.1 Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
Track 2.2 Ultrasound Imaging 
Track 2.3 Optical Imaging and Microscopy 
Track 2.4 X-ray, CT, PET, and SPECT 
Track 2.5 Electrical Source and Impedance Imaging 
Track 2.6 Image Reconstruction and Enhancement 
Track 2.7 Image Registration, Segmentation, Compression and Visualization 
Track 2.8 Image Analysis and Classification 
Track 2.9 Molecular, MEG, Infrared and Other Novel Imaging Modalities 
Theme 3. Bioinstrumentation: Sensors, Micro, Nano and Wearable Technologies 
Theme Chairs 
Utkan Demirci Harvard Medical School 
Andreas Lymberis Information Society and Media Directorate General, European 
Commission 
 5 
Track 5.8 Cardiac Electrophysiology 
Track 5.9 Cardiovascular Regulation 
Track 5.10 Sleep Disorders and Respiratory Engineering 
Track 5.11 Cellular & Molecular Cardiorespiratory Engineering 
Theme 6. Neural Engineering, Neuromuscular Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering 
Theme Chairs 
Silvestro Micera Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna, Italy 
Sandro Mussa-Ivaldi Northwestern University 
Paul Sajda Columbia University 
Maurice Smith Harvard Medical School 
Track 6.1 Neural Interfaces and Regeneration 
Track 6.2 Brain Computer / Machine Interfaces 
Track 6.3 Motor NeuroProstheses 
Track 6.4 Sensory Neuroprostheses 
Track 6.5 Deep Brain Stimulation 
Track 6.6 Motor Learning and Neural Control 
Track 6.7 Virtual Reality in Rehabilitation 
Track 6.8 Wearable Systems for Neurohabilitation 
Track 6.9 Brain physiology and modeling 
Track 6.10 Neural Signal Processing 
Track 6.11 Neurological Disorders 
Track 6.12 Brain functional imaging 
Track 6.13 Human performance 
Theme 7. Molecular and Cellular Biomechanics, Tissue Engineering, Biomaterials 
Theme Chairs 
Karen Christman UCSD 
Esmaiel Jabbari University of South Carolina 
Ali Khademhosseini Harvard Medical School 
Helen Lu Columbia University 
Milica Radisic University of Toronto 
Track 7.1 Biomaterials Cell Interactions 
Track 7.2 Scaffolds in Tissue Engineering 
Track 7.3 Biomimetic, Bioinspired, and patterned Biomaterials 
Track 7.4 Cellular Force Transduction 
Track 7.5 Stem Cells in Regenerative Medicine 
Track 7.6 Gene and Drug Delivery 
Track 7.7 Electrical Fields at the Cell and Protein Scale 
Track 7.8 Biomaterials for Sending and Actuation 
Track 7.9 BioMEMS/NEMS in Tissue Engineering and Biomaterials 
Track 7.10 Translational Issues in Tissue Engineering 
Theme 8. Bio-Robotics, Surgical Planning and Orthopedic Biomechanics 
 7 
Track 10.5 Ambient Assisted Living, Smart Homes 
Track 10.6 Health Information Management, Electronic Health Record 
Track 10.7 Data Mining, Information Processing, and Decision Support Systems 
Track 10.8 Emerging Topics: Low Cost Delivery, Public and Environmental Health 
Surveillance 
Theme 11. Technology Commercialization, Education, Industry and Society 
Theme Chairs 
Jim Niemi Harvard Medical School 
Martha Zequera Diaz Pontifica Universidad Javeriana 
Track 11.1 Technology Development, Commercialization, Assessment and Management 
Track 11.2 Biomedical Engineering Education 
Track 11.3 Career Development in Biomedical Engineering 
Track 11.4 Instruction and Learning 
Track 11.5 Minisymposium: People, Places and Companies Involved in the Early History 
of Biomedical Devices and Instrumentation 
Track 11.6 Technology Development, Assessment and Management 
Track 11.7 Recent Advances in Novel Optical Imaging Technologies 
 9 
The compliance of an artery describes the ability to store a varying amount of blood and it is defined as the change in blood 
volume for a given change in blood pressure. Thus, to accurately assess dynamic change of arterial compliance one need both 
pressure and volume information simultaneously during each cardiac cycle. 
To obtain the blood pressure waveform, noninvasively, a continuous blood pressure monitoring technique was proposed by the 
author [3]. The system uses low cuff pressure and is capable of observing blood pressure waveform noninvasively for long period of 
time. On the other hand, the blood volume change can be obtained, conveniently and cheaply, using impedance plethysmography. In 
2003, Groothuis et al. [4] used 30 mmHg or higher cuff pressure to obstruct the venous return in the forearm and conformed that it 
is possible to obtain forearm blood flow. Although, ultrasound technique is the most common noninvasive way to estimate the blood 
volume, it is not only inconvenient but also very difficult to become lightweight and portable. Van de Water et al. used IPG 
principle to measure the blood flow in a hind limb of a dog and reported that the correlation of r = 0.962 was obtained when they 
were compared with electromagnetic flowmeter measurements [5]. 
Thus, this study combines IPG and continuous blood pressure measurements together to construct a lightweight system for 
peripheral blood vessel characteristic evaluation. The main advantage of this proposed system is its capability of obtaining blood 
pressure signal and blood volume change simultaneously. With these two concurrent signals, the peripheral arterial pressure-volume 
(PV) loop can be constructed. Similar to the left-ventricular pressure-volume loop, the arterial pressure-volume loop is also a closed 
loop as it was reported by Quick et al. [6]. The tracks of the loop, the slope, shape and area of the loop will change due to the 
variation of blood vessel. 
II. METHODS 
A. Impedance Plethysmography (IPG) 
By measuring the electric impedance at the body surface, impedance plethysmography is a simple and easy method to estimate 
the changing tissue volume in the body. To estimate the blood volume in the limb, two-compartment model can be used. In the 
model, a blood vessel compartment is surrounded by an isotropic tissue compartment to form a uniform cylinder (Figure 1). By 
Ohm’s law, the resistance of this cylinder is given as: 1/R = 1/Rt + 1/Rb where Rt and Rb are the resistance of the tissue 
compartment and blood compartment, respectively. When resistivity,, is assumed to be constant, the resistance, R, is inversely 
related to the volume as: 
V
l
R
 
2
           (1) 
where l is the length of the cylinder. 
When using high frequency alternating current and assuming the tissue volume does not change during the measurement period, 
the impedance change is due to the blood volume change and can be estimated by the following equation: 
 V
l
Z
Z  
 2
2
         (2) 
 In the realization of IPG circuit, there are two major blocks: a high-frequency constant current source and a Z amplification 
circuit. Considering the resolution and patient safety, a 100 KHz, 4 mA (rms) constant current source is used in this system. In 
addition, to protect the subject, this system employs a delay device in front of the output terminal to ensure that the current is not 
delivered until one second after the system is turned on. An instrumentation amplifier amplifies the modulated impedance signal 
that is extracted by the two inner electrodes. It then passes through an 80 kHz highpass filter followed by a 120 kHz lowpass filter 
before it is demodulated. A 100Hz lowpass filter is used to reduce the high frequency components that are generated by the 
half-wave-rectifier demodulation circuit. After demodulation and amplification, the thoracic impedance signal Z can be separated 
 11 
attached to the subjects’ left upper arm and wrist. In the inner side of these pressure cuffs, two IPG band electrodes were attached 
for impedance measurement. Subjects were instructed to sit 
quietly in a comfortable chair. Following the baseline period, subjects performed the cold pressor task by placing their left foot in a 
container of 4°C water for a maximum of 2 min or until the task became too painful to tolerate. Continuous blood pressure signals 
from the two pressure cuffs and IPG signal were acquired throughout the task period using the proposed hardware. At the end of 
task, subjects were instructed to remove their foot from the water, and then signals were obtained for 1 min of the post-task recovery 
period. 
E. Signal Processing 
In general, the PV loop is generated by plotting the blood pressure against the blood volume for one complete cardiac cycle. As 
indicated by equation 2, the Z signal is directly proportional to the changes of blood volume. Thus, in this study, the blood 
pressure was plotted against the impedance signal, Z, instead. To generate the PV loop, first, specific section of blood pressure 
signal was extracted from the continuous blood pressure signal. The selected pressure signal was then detrained after filtering 
(Figure 3.) Signal from five or more complete cardiac cycles were manually extracted and were ensemble averaged to generate 
averaged pressure and averaged volume signals. The pressure signals were plotted against Z signals to create multiple PV loops 
for that section. 
III. RESULTS 
Figure 4 illustrates the completed system. Four band electrodes are placed underneath the two pressure cuffs for impedance signal 
measurement. A typical PV loop of a subject during baseline is depicted in Figure 5. The loop, unlike the left ventricular pressure 
volume loop, starts at the lower left corner and is inscribed in a clockwise direction which is similar to the arterial system PV loops 
described by Quick et al [6]. In the very early systolic period, pressure increases but there is little change in volume. Afterward, 
volume continuous to increase as pressure hesitates at the end of early systolic. In late systolic, volume and pressure decrease in 
synchronous. Finally, in diastole, the pressure and volume fall monotonically after an initial increase.  
The PV loops of a subject during different phases of the experiment, including baseline, during the cold pressor task and after the 
cold pressor task are illustrated in Figure 6. The results shown that the PV loops, as it was expected, demonstrated a contraction 
phenomenon after stimulation. This contraction phenomenon appears in five out of ten subjects. The areas of those pressure-volume 
loops reduced as much as 70% in some subject. However, the slope of the loop did not alter significantly. Additionally, it is known 
that changing resistance will translate the loop along the pressure axis and changing compliance will change the orientation of the 
loop [6]. In our results, due to the detrain operation, all pressure signal were normalized and there were no translation observed. 
Additionally, after ensemble averaging, some of the PV loop does not form a closed loop due to the varying cycle length. 
IV. DISCUSSIONS 
Heart function is a very important piece of information for cardiologists in evaluating the status of patients before, during and 
 (a)   
(b) 
Fig. 3.  The extracted continuous blood pressure signal and IPG signal. 
(a) before detraining and (b) after detraining. 
   
 
 
Fig. 5.  The pressure-volume loop. The pressure is plotted again Z 
after ensemble averaging over five cardiac cycles. 
 13 
Hu, F. S. Chang, S. H. Jo, Y. R. Lin, L. Y. Shyu, “Two-cuff Noninvasive Blood Pressure Waveform Monitoring System for Dynamic Blood Vassal 
Characteristic Study,” in Proc. Transdisciplinary conference on distributed diagnosis and home healthcare, Arlington, VA, 2006, pp. 87-90. 
[4] J. T. Groothuis, L. van Vliet, M. Kooijman and M. T. E. Hopman, “Venous cuff pressures from 30 mmHg to diastolic pressure are recommended to measure 
arterial inflow by plethysmography,” J. Appl. Physiol., 95, 2003, pp. 342-347. 
[5] J. M. van de Water, G. B. Dove, B. E. Mount, and L. A. Linton, “Application of bioelectric impedance to the measurement of arterial flow,” J. Surgical 
Research, 15(1), 1973, pp. 22-29. 
[6] C. Quick, M. Mohiuddin, A. L. Glen, and A. Noordergraaf, “The arterial system pressure-volume loop,” Physiol. Meas, 2005, pp. N20-N35. 
[7] L. Y. Shyu, C. Y. Chiang, C. P. Liu, W. C. Hu, “Portable impedance cardiography system for real-time noninvasive cardiac output measurement,” J. Med. 
Biolo. Eng. 20(4), 2000, pp. 193-202. 
[8] A. Peckerman, P. G. Saab, P. M. McCabe, J. S. Skyler, R. W. Winters, M. M. Llabre, N. Schneiderman, “Blood pressure reactivity and perception of pain during 
the forehead cold pressor test,” Psychophysiology, 28(5), pp. 485-95, 1991. 
[9] V. Olga, M. Lucio, G. Giuseppe, M. Stefano, and P. Palol, “Blood pressure response to stress tests does not reflect blood pressure variability and degree of 
cardiovascular involvement in youug hypertensives,” International J. of Cardiology, 48(3), 1995, pp. 303-31 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：徐良育 計畫編號：99-2220-E-033-001- 
計畫名稱：可自由搭配之開放式生醫訊號處理軟體 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 5 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
