 1
For an exclusively sequential product development, a firm will not start the 
downstream activity until the upstream activity is done.  However, as described earlier, 
starting or overlapping the downstream activity before the upstream activity is completed 
may reduce the whole project completion time, improve the outcome, and hence may 
improve the project revenue and profit.  Our research focuses on how much effort is 
devoted into the downstream activity at any instance of time t to maximize the whole 
project profit.  This effort is represented by a continuous control variable u(t).  We will 
explore the characteristics of u(t) and how it affects the project profit. 
Two important parameters, upstream activity evolution speed and downstream 
activity sensitivity, are usually used to describe the relationship between two consecutive 
activities for a product development project (Krishnan 1993; Krishnan et al., 1995; 1997).   
The upstream activity evolution speed stands for how fast the information or the 
completion of the upstream activity is conducted.  We use the coefficient, α, to 
characterize the behavior of upstream information evolution.  The higher the α, the faster 
the speed of evolution is.  Let E(t) represent percentage of upstream information 
completed and available at time t.  As described earlier, the activity time is normalized 
with the upstream activity from t=0 to t=1.  At t=1, the information of upstream activity 
is totally complete and the upstream activity is terminated.  Hence, the value of E(t) is 
between 0 and 1 when [ ]1,0∈t , and always be 1 when t ≧ 1.  Assuming the information 
will evolve continuously, we use the following function to approximate the behavior of 
E(t). 
tetE α−−= 1)(        (1) 
Note that E(t) is a concave function in t, and it will be asymptotically approaching 1.  
The higher the α, the faster the E(t) approaches 1. The range of α will be chosen such 
that E(t) is very close to 1when t ≧1.  Figure 2 shows the shapes of a set of evolution 
functions.  When α is 5 and t is 1, E(t) is 0.9933 which is very close to 1. 
0
5
10
15
20
25 0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
t
α
E
(t)
 
Figure 2: Illustrations of Evolution Functions. 
 
The downstream sensitivity defines how sensitively or dependently the downstream 
activity relies on the completion and information of the upstream activity.  For example, 
if the upstream activity is to design the body of an automobile and the downstream 
activity is to design the shape of its door, the downstream activity is very sensitive to and 
dependent upon the information of upstream activity since you need the exact shape to 
 3
Table 1: Four Scenarios Based on Sensitivity and Evolution Speed. 
  Evolution speed of upstream information (α) 
  Slow Fast 
Sensitivity of 
downstream activity to 
the upstream information 
(β) 
High SH FH 
Low SL FL 
 
The conclusions of investments in the downstream activity for these scenarios are 
summarized in Table 2. 
 Table 2: Framework to Manage Downstream Activity. 
  Evolution speed of upstream information (α) 
  Slow Fast 
 
Sensitivity of 
downstream activity to 
the upstream information 
(β) 
 
High
Difficult 
environment: invest 
lightly. 
Postpone effort, start 
lower, and increase 
faster. 
 
Low 
Earlier effort, start 
higher and increase 
slower. 
Easy environment: 
invest heavily. 
 
 
Overlapping is one of the most popular tools to shorten the product development 
lead-time.  Many researches have devoted their efforts to study how can overlapping 
reduces the product development lead-time and some have identified the risks of 
overlapping.  In this paper, instead of focusing on the lead-time, we turn our attention to 
maximize the total profit of the product development project by developing a dynamic 
optimal control model.  The closed form solutions are found and the managerial insights 
are derived.  We find that the firm should increase the investment in downstream activity 
when the unit revenue of final result is bigger than the unit cost of downstream activity. 
In addition, when the upstream activity evolution speed is fast, the firm should invest 
heavily in the downstream activity.  On the other hand, when the downstream activity 
sensitivity is high, the firm should reduce the resource allocated to the downstream 
activities to prevent costly rework.   
We also consider four scenarios where the upstream activity evolution speed and the 
downstream activity sensitivity are slow and high (SH), fast and high (FH), slow and low 
(SL), and fast and low (FL). Findings are organized into a framework to help manager 
managing the product development activities. 
We find that with the most difficult environment, SH, the firm should invest lightly 
for the downstream activity; while with the easiest environment, FL, the firm should 
invest heavily for the downstream activity.  For FH where the upstream activity evolution 
is fast and the downstream activity sensitivity is high, the firm should postpone the 
investment in the downstream activity to a later stage: start at a lower level, and increase 
the effort later in a faster pace.  On the other hand, for SL where the upstream activity 
evolution is slow and the downstream activity sensitivity is low, the firm should invest 
earlier, start at a higher level, and increase the effort in a slower pace. 
