 INTRODUCTION 
 Excavation will inevitably induce ground settlement. The profile of ground 
settlement should be predicted prior to excavation in order to evaluate the safety of 
buildings in the vicinity of excavations. The finite element method and the simplified 
method are two commonly used tools to predict the settlement. The former not only 
can predict the ground settlement but wall deflection. It also enables the engineers to 
understand the mechanism of settlement due to excavation and helps to design 
auxiliary methods to reduce the ground settlement. However, based on the authors’ 
experience, the finite element method usually gives a good prediction on wall 
deflection rather than ground settlement unless small strain theories are taken into 
account. On the other hand, elastoplastic theories, with the implementation of small 
strain theories, are usually very complicated and most of the input parameters in these 
models are obtained from quite complicated test procedures rather than conventional 
soil tests. 
The simplified method is mainly derived from field observations of case histories, 
which many investigators (e.g., Liu et al., 2005; Finno and Bryson, 2002 ) have 
delved into. This method is sometimes called as the empirical method. Since each 
excavation case is equivalent to a large-scale field test, it should cover all factors that 
may affect ground settlement. The method derived from field observations usually 
give a reasonable prediction on ground settlement, without much complexity, for 
similar excavation projects, in terms of soil conditions, construction methods, and 
designs. 
There are some simplified methods in literature available to predict the ground 
settlement or wall deflection caused by excavation. However, most of them are not 
able to yield a very good prediction because the mechanism of induced settlement is 
not involved in the derivation. Some of the simplified methods represent the 
envelopes of the settlement induced by all excavation stages and some of them result 
 2
predict the ground movement. The authors (Hsieh and Ou, 1998) found that the 
settlement profile induced by excavation can be classified as the concave and spandrel 
types. Based on the regression analysis of field observations, we have established a 
method for predicting both types of settlement. In this method, the excavation depth is 
also the only parameter involved in the prediction of ground settlement. Based on the 
observed settlement profiles of the nine excavation case histories at the final stage, 
Hsieh and Ou’s method (1998) is of better accurate prediction than the other methods. 
The key step for the prediction work is to define the settlement influence zone. 
Peck (1969) proposed that the influence zone of settlement should be two or three 
times of the excavation depth. Clough and O’Rourke (1990) proposed that excavation 
in sandy soils may induce an influence zone of settlement about twice the excavation 
depth. As for stiff to very stiff clay, three times the excavation depth. Soft or medium 
soft clay, twice the excavation depth.  
As discussed earlier, the types of settlement induced by excavation include the 
spandrel type and the concave type. The authors (Hsieh and Ou, 1998) has proposed 
the conception of the primary influence zone (PIZ) and the secondary influence zone 
(SIZ) on the basis of the principles of mechanics and regression analysis of excavation 
case histories. According to our study, the influence zone may extend very far and the 
distribution of the settlement curve includes the primary influence zone and the 
secondary influence zone no matter whether the settlement belongs to the spandrel 
type or the concave type. The curve is steeper in the primary influence zone where 
buildings receive more influence. In the secondary influence zone the slope of the 
curve is gentler and its influence on buildings is less. The primary settlement 
influence zone is about equal to two times excavation depth and the secondary 
influence zone is approximately as large as the primary influence zone.  
In addition to the above, there are various other suggested values of the influence 
zone (Nicholson, 1987, for example). 
The literature reveals that the above-mentioned methods are appropriate for the 
 4
are not able to simulate the deformation behavior of the soil, especially at small strain 
condition. In general, the better the soil model capable of simulating the deformation 
characteristics of soil, the higher the analysis accuracy. A number of studies were 
conducted to improve the accuracy of FEM predictions (e.g., Hashash and Whittle, 
1996; Hight and Higgin, 1995; Stallebrass and Taylor, 1997; Finno and Calvello, 2005; 
Hashash, et al., 2006). Some advance models, most of them based on the elastoplastic 
theory, are thus developed. However, such models are usually quite complicated and 
require parameters that are not necessarily obtainable through conventional soil tests.  
The hyperbolic model, as proposed by Duncan and Chang (1970), has been used 
in the analyses of geotechnical problems quite extensively, possibly due to the fact 
that this type of soil model is relatively simple, conceptually understandable and easy 
for determining soil parameters. However, the original hyperbolic model takes the 
tangential Young’s modulus to simulate the primary loading and unloading-reloading 
modulus to model the state of elasticity. Differentiating between the primary loading 
sate and elastic loading state is based on the current stress level and the previous 
maximum stress level. The method works for most of the geotechnical problems, 
especially for loading problems such as dam construction, rather than unloading 
problems such as deep excavation. Use of the simple stress level criterion in 
excavation problems will cause the soil in front of the wall to be in the state of 
primary loading. For this reason, Hsieh and Ou (1997) introduced the concept of 
plasticity theory to modify the hyperbolic model where yield functions for soft clay, 
as derived based on Lo’s equation (Lo, 1965) and isotropic hardening rule, were used 
to differentiate Young’s modulus between the primary and unloading-reloading states. 
The thus obtained model is relatively rational, compared with the original hyperbolic 
model and relatively simple, compared with the theory of plasticity.  
According to the test results, clay usually possesses the high initial stiffness at 
small strain, about %. Unable to take this factor into consideration in the soil 
model will cause the prediction far from the field observation. Besides, clay also 
310−
 6
PARAMETRIC STUDY 
The basic excavation profile used for the parametric study is shown in Figure 4. 
The soil is assumed to be homogeneous clay and has the same properties as those at 
the TNEC excavation site. This is because the clay at the TNEC excavation site has a 
complete triaxial test results at small strain, and the soil parameters used in the 
parametric study will adopt those at the TNEC excavation site, such as normalized 
initial tangent modulus ( , anisotropic strength ratio ( ) and constants a, b. 
Table 1 lists the values of the key parameters of the soil and retaining-support system 
and their variations in the parametric study. 
)/ uci sE sK
The typical computed wall deflections and ground settlement profiles are given 
in Figure 5, in which the final excavation depth, =20 m and eH vus σ ′/ = 0.3, but the 
depth to hard soil layer, , varies from 25 m to 50 m. Casagrande’s method (1936), 
used to determine the pre-consolidation pressure from the result of oedometer test 
results, is adopted to differentiate the primary influence zone and the secondary 
influence zone from the settlement profile, as shown in Figure 6. 
gH
According to the parametric study results, it is found that the wall penetration 
depth ( ) has little influence on the PIZ. Woo and Moh (1990) investigated the 
behavior of excavations in soft clay and found that the wall depth ( ) is about to 
equal to 1.6 to 2.2 times final excavation depth ( ) for most of excavation case 
histories. Therefore, this study adopts =2.0  in the following parametric study. 
pH
pH
eH
pH eH
Assuming the hard soil is very deep, about 50 meters below the ground surface, 
and not able to restrain the development of the failure surface, the relationship 
between PIZ, B, and  is given in Figure 7. This figure reveals that when eH
22
eHB +  is equal to or smaller than 2 , the PIZ is equal to 2  and otherwise, eH eH
 8
depth. Thus, neither Nicholson’s nor the author’s earlier study conforms to the actual 
conditions. 
Figure 10, based on the parametric study results, displays the relationship 
between the location of maximum settlement and PIZ. As shown in the figure, the 
location of the maximum settlement of the concave type can be determined by the 
equation:  (Note: definition of  can be referred to Figure 2). As 
elucidated earlier, the primary influence zone (PIZ) is determined as soon as the 
excavation is started and the location of the maximum settlement ( ), which does 
not move with the continuation of excavation, is determined accordingly, too.  
PIZDm 33.0= mD
mD
Earlier studies, based on the limited field data, suggest that the settlement at the 
transition point between the PIZ and SIZ is about equal to 0.1 times the maximum 
ground settlement, that is, vmi δδ 1.0= . However, based on the parametric study, it is 
found from Figure 11 that iδ  can be reasonably estimated by assuming 6/vmi δδ = . 
Based on the parametric study above, the original prediction method for the 
concave settlement profile is then revised as shown in Figure 12b, in which the 
primary influence zone (PIZ) is not necessarily equal to 2 . In addition to the 
excavation depth, the excavation width, depth to hard soil and depth of the soft soil 
bottom are also related to the PIZ. 
eH
 
DETERMINATION OF THE PRIMARY INFLUENCE ZONE 
The push-in and the basal heave are two main overall failure modes of 
excavations. As shown in Figure 13a, the push-in is caused by the earth pressures, 
reaching the limiting state, on both sides of the retaining wall, which is thereby moved, 
a large distance, toward the excavation zone (especially the part embedded in soil) 
until reaching the full-zone failure. The analysis views the retaining wall as a free 
 10
excavations or the condition of ≤+ 22 eHB 2 , can be determined (Figure 14) as 
follows: 
eH
( )ge HHPIZ ,2min1 =                       (3) 
where  = depth of the hard soil.  gH
The hard soil in this study refers to the soil which will not occur the basal heave 
or push-in, such as rock, gravel, etc. 
Excavation in soft clay may also induce basal heave. Based on the results of the 
parametric study shown in Figure 9, the potential basal heave failure surface can be 
the one with the wall top as axis and the diagonal as radius (X in Figure 15). If the 
sandy or the hard soil locates shallower, the potential basal heave failure surface will 
then be tangential to the sandy or hard soil and the potential basal heave failure range 
in back of the wall will be close to the distance to the soft clay bottom from the 
ground surface. Thus, the potential failure zone based on the basal heave failure mode, 
occurring in wide excavations or the condition of >+ 22 eHB 2 , can be 
determined as follows (Ou et al., 2005): 
eH
( )222 ,min ef HBHPIZ +=                   (4) 
where = depth of the soft clay bottom  fH
B = excavation width 
Both  and  are potential failure zones. The primary influence zone 
of excavation-induced settlement is the maximum of the potential failure zones. This 
observation is also consistent with the parametric study results (Figure 7). Thus, the 
primary influence zone is the larger of  or : 
1PIZ 2PIZ
1PIZ 2PIZ
),max( 21 PIZPIZPIZ =                    (5) 
 If the hard soil locates very deep and does not affect the settlement influence 
 12
of the forces have the same resultant force. As described in the previous study, 
different excavation and strut installation procedures will results in different states of 
stresses for the soil near the wall (i.e., primary influence zone), which in turn yield 
different shapes of settlement profile, i.e., concave type and spandrel type. As 
discussed in the preceding section, the primary influence zone can be obtained from 
the potential failure surface, deduced from the failure mechanism of excavations. The 
potential failure surface or failure mechanism is mainly related to the subsurface soil 
properties and geometry of excavations, and has little relation to the excavation and 
strut installation procedures as long as the final excavation depth and strut-retaining 
stiffness are the same. Therefore, Eqs 3, 6 and 5 can also be used to determine the 
primary influence zone of the spandrel settlement profile. 
Such different excavation and strut installation procedures but with the same 
resultant force, i.e., active force, will induce the same or close state of stresses for the 
soil far away from the wall and therefore the corresponding the settlement beyond the 
primary influence zone in the concave settlement profile and spandrel settlement 
profile may be the same under such conditions. This implies that the settlement 
beyond the primary influence zone is not affected by the shapes of settlement profile 
in the primary influence zone. We therefore assume that the settlement at the 
transition point in the spandrel settlement profile is equal to that in the concave 
settlement profile, i.e., 6/vmi δδ = . The spandrel settlement profile is then revised, as 
shown in Figure 12a. 
 
VERIFICATION OF THE PROPOSED METHOD  
The authors in their previous study (Hsieh and Ou, 1998) adopted nine case 
histories to verify the proposed method. As described in that study, cases 1 to 6 have 
the concave type of settlement profile while cases 7 to 9 have the spandrel type of 
settlement profile. For proving if the new method capable of enhancing predictability, 
 14
( m). Figure 17c shows that the new method can enhance the prediction, 
compared with the previous method. The settlement profile derived from Clough and 
O’ Rourke’s method can lead to a satisfactory settlement envelope as far as the 
primary influence zone is concerned, though the secondary influence zone is 
obviously ignored.  
PIZ
From the above discussion, the primary influence zones at stage 5, 9 and 13 (final 
stage) are found to be 37.5 m, 37.5 m and 39.4 m, respectively. Obviously, the 
primary settlement influence zones remain unchanged or change little with the 
increasing excavation depth, which conforms the field observation as shown in Figure 
1. 
Case 2 is an excavation with 60 m long and 35 m wide. The diaphragm wall was 
31m in depth and 80 cm in thickness. The final excavation depth was 18.45 m. The 
braced excavation method was adopted with 7 excavation stages. In addition to the 
final stage ( =18.45 m), settlement profiles at two intermediate stages, i.e., stage 3 
( =6.9 m) and stage 5 ( =13.2 m) are also used for verification.  
eH
eH eH
At stage 3, according to the excavation geometry and the soil profile displayed in 
Figure 18, we have the following data: =13.8 m, =31 m, =13.8 m; 
=35 m, =31 m, =31 m. Thus, we can conclude the primary influence 
zone is 31 m (
eH2 gH 1PIZ
B fH 2PIZ
31=PIZ m). At stage 5, =26.4 m, =31 m, =26.4 m; 
=35 m, =31 m, =31 m. Thus, we can conclude the primary influence 
zone is 31 m (
eH2 gH 1PIZ
B fH 2PIZ
31=PIZ m). Figures 18a and b shows the comparisons between the 
measured settlement profiles and those computed separately from the three methods 
for stages 3 and 5, respectively. As shown in these figures, the settlement profiles 
derived from the new method are close to the field measurements. On the other hand, 
the results computed using Clough and O’Rourke’s method and Hsieh and Ou (1998) 
 16
Case 5 is the Chicago subway excavation with the 12.2 m excavation width. The 
final excavation depth was 12.2 m. According to Hsieh and Ou (1998), if the hard 
rock, locating at a depth of 25 m below the ground surface, is treated as hard layer 
while the clay, between 5 m and 16.2 m, is regarded as the soft soil. Then, we have the 
following data: =24.4 m, =25 m, =24.4 m; =12.2 m, =16.2 m, 
=12.2 m; =24.4 m. Figure 19c shows that both the new method and Hsieh 
and Ou’s method can result in good prediction while Clough and O’Rourke’s method 
provides good envelope of the settlement profile.  
eH2 gH 1PIZ B fH
2PIZ PIZ
Case 6 is the Oslo subway excavation, with the 11 m excavation width. The final 
excavation depth was 11m. According to Hsieh and Ou (1998), if the bedrock, 
locating at a depth of 16 m below the ground surface, is treated as a hard layer while 
the clay, between 2 m and 16 m, is regarded as a soft soil. Then, we have the 
following data: =22 m, =16 m, =16 m; =11 m, =16 m, 
=11 m; =16 m. Figure 19d shows that the new method is of better 
accuracy in prediction ground settlement than the methods of Hsieh and Ou (1998) 
and Clough and O’Rourke (1990).  
eH2 gH 1PIZ B fH
2PIZ PIZ
Case 7 is the Far-East Enterprise Center excavation, located in Taipei, with the 64 
m excavation width. The final excavation depth was 20 m. According to Hsieh and Ou 
(1998), if the gravel soil, at a depth of 32 m below the ground surface, is treated as a 
hard layer. The clay, between 8 m and 32 m, is regarded as a soft clay. Then, we have 
the following data: =40 m, =32 m, =32 m; =64 m, =32 m, 
=32 m; =32 m. Figure 20a displays that both the new method and Hsieh 
and Ou’s method can result in very good prediction in ground settlement while the 
other three methods, Bowles (1986), Clough and O’Rourke (1990) and Peck (1969), 
are not able to have a good prediction. 
eH2 gH 1PIZ B fH
2PIZ PIZ
 18
intermediate stages, values of  are usually much smaller than the parameters (eH2 B , 
 and ), and one of those parameters is often the controlling parameters to 
determine the primary settlement influence zone. 
gH fH
CONCLUSION 
The authors developed a method to predict the ground settlement in their previous 
work, suitable for the concave as well as the spandrel settlement profiles. The method 
was verified through the nine case histories, by which the settlements computed from 
the method were close to the field measurements. However, the previous method used 
the excavation depth as the only parameter to determine the settlement influence zone 
like the other empirical methods, e.g., Clough and O’Rourke (1990), Peck (1969) and 
Bowles (1986) and so on. This causes the primary settlement influence zone 
increasing with the excavation depth, which contradicts the field observation, i.e., the 
settlement influence zone remains unchanged or changes little, with the increasing 
excavation depth. Therefore, a new method, with the determination of the primary 
influence zone, location of the maximum settlement and settlement at the transition 
point between the primary influence zone and settlement influence zone, is proposed, 
based on the parametric study results using the finite element method and failure 
mechanism. The new method is obviously able to predict the settlement profile for all 
excavation stages while the previous method and most of the empirical methods can 
not. Besides, the following conclusions can be drawn: 
1. Since the primary settlement influence zone is defined as the one with relatively 
large settlement or angular distortion, according to the stress-strain behavior of soil, 
we can reasonably assume the primary influence zone is the potential failure zone, 
in which the soil is subjected to relatively large strain or movement. From the 
parametric study results, it is found that in addition to the excavation depth, the 
excavation width, the locations of hard soil layer and bottom of soft clay are also 
related to the primary influence zone, which forms a basis of the new method. The 
 20
References 
 
Bjerrum, L. and Eide, O. (1956), Stability of strutted excavation in clay, Geotechnique, 
Vol. 6, pp. 32-47. 
Bowles, J. E. (1986), Foundation Analysis and Design, 4th Ed., McGraw-Hill Book 
Company, New York, U.S.A. 
Casagrande, A. (1936), The determination of the Pre-Consolidation Load and Its 
Practical Significance, Discussion D-34, Proceedings of the First International 
Conference on Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering, Cambridge, Vol. III, 
pp.60-64.  
Clough, G. W. and O'Rourke, T. D. (1990), Construction-induced movements of in 
situ walls, Design and Performance of Earth Retaining Structures, ASCE Special 
Publication, No. 25, pp.439-470. 
Duncan, J.M. and Chang, C.Y. (1970), Nonlinear analysis of stress and strain in soils, 
Journal of the Soil Mechanics and Foundations Division, ASCE, Vol. 96, No. 5, 
pp. 637-659. 
Finno, R. J. and Bryson, L. S. (2002), Response of building adjacent to stiff 
excavation support system in soft clay, Journal of Performance of Constructed 
Facilities, ASCE, Vol. 16, No. 1, pp. 10–20. 
Finno, R. J. and Calvello, M. (2005), Supported excavations: observational method 
and inverse modeling, Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental 
Engineering, ASCE, Vol. 131, No. 7, pp. 826–836. 
Hashash, Y. M. A., Marulanda, C. M., Ghaboussi, J. and Jung, S. (2006), Novel 
approach to integration of numerical modeling and field observations for deep 
excavations, Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering, ASCE, 
Vol. 132, No. 8, pp. 1019–1031. 
 22
Ou, C.Y., Heish, P. G. and Chiou, D. C. (1993), Characteristics of ground surface 
settlement during excavation, Canadian Geotechnical Journal, Vol. 30, pp. 
758-767. 
Ou, C. Y., Hsieh, P. G. and Duan, S. M. (2005), A Simplified Method to Estimate the 
Ground Surface Settlement Induced by Deep Excavation, Geotechnical Research 
Report No. GT200502, Department of Construction Engineering, National 
Taiwan University of Science and Technology. 
Ou, C.Y., Liao, J. T. and Lin, H. D. (1998), Performance of diaphragm wall 
constructed using top-down method, Journal of Geotechnical and 
Geoenvironmental Engineering, ASCE, Vol. 124, No. 9, pp. 798-808. 
Peck, R. B. (1969), Deep excavation and tunneling in soft ground, Proceedings of the 
7th International Conference on soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering, 
Mexico City, State-of-the-Art Volume, pp. 225-290. 
Santagata, M.C., Germaine, J.T. and Ladd, C.C. (1999) Initial stiffness of K0-normally 
consolidated Boston Blue Clay measured in the triaxial apparatus, Pre-failure 
Deformation Characteristics of Geomaterials, Balkema, Rotterdam. 
Stallebrass, S.E. and Taylor, R.N. (1997), The development and evaluation of a 
constitutive model for the prediction of ground movements in overconsolidation 
clay, Geotechnique, Vol. 47, No. 2, pp. 235-253. 
Timonshenko, S. and Goodier, J. N. (1951), Theory of Elasticity, 2nd edition, 
McGraw-Hill Book, Co., New York. 
Woo, S. M. and Moh, Z. C. (1990), Geotechnical characteristics of soils in Taipei 
basin, Proceeding of 10th Southeast Asian Geotechnical Conference, Special 
Taiwan Session, Taipei, Vol. 2, pp. 51-65. 
 24
mD
 26
GL.-6.0 m
GL.-3.0 m
GL.-9.0 m
GL.-12.0 m
GL.-15.0 m
GL.-18.0 m
GL.-20.0 m
B= 40 m
20
.0
 m
H
p 
(m
)
strut
Wall
FIGURE 4  Typical excavation profile used in the parametric study  
 28
PI
Z=
2H
e
PI
Z 
(m
)
eH2
22
eHBPIZ +=
ee HHB 2
22 ≤+ee HHB 222 >+
 
 
 30
Hf=35
Hf=30
Hf=25
Hf=40
Hf=50
Hg=50m
Hg=40m
Hg=50m
Hg=40m
He=20m, B=40mHe=20m, B=40m
20 30 40 50 60 70
20
30
40
50
60
70
PI
Z
(m
)
FIGURE 9 Relationship between the primary influence zone and the various 
                     parameters (He, Hg, B) under the condition of ee HHB 2
22 >+
22
eHB + (m)
2
2
eH
B
PIZ
+
=
ge HHB ≤+ 22 ge HHB >+ 22
 
 
 32
vm
i
δ
δ
16.0=
vm
i
δ
δ
25.0=
vm
i
δ
δ 1.0=
vmδ
iδ
 
 
 34
eH
gH
eH
 
 
 
(b)
fH
Sand or hard soil
FIGURE 15 The primary settlement influence zone derived from the failure mode“basal heave＂
Soft soil
fH
B
eH
(a)
X
 
 
 36
  
 38
0Se
ttl
em
en
t (
cm
)
Se
ttl
em
en
t (
cm
)
Se
ttl
em
en
t (
cm
)
Se
ttl
em
en
t (
cm
)
Hsieh & Ou(1998)
Clough & O'Rourke(1990)
Measurements
This study
Distance from the wall (m)
(a) Case 3
(b) Case 4
(c) Case 5
(d) Case 6
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
15
10
5
0
4
3
2
1
0
40
30
20
10
25
20
15
10
5
0
FIGURE 19 Comparison of the settlement profiles from field measurements and those from the empirical 
                        methods at the final stage for Cases 3, 4, 5, and 6  
 
 40
