a moving surface has been studied, the effect of 
different task demands (surface speeds) and different 
visual stimulations revealed by anticipatory 
locomotor adjustments (ALA) and reactive locomotor 
adjustments (RLA) remained unexplored.  Thus, the 
main purposes of the project were to investigate the 
effects of task and visual stimulation on joint 
mechanics in young adults. A complete procedure to 
investigate end-point control, joint mechanics during 
tasks of different demands (surface speeds of 
treadmill) and visual stimulations was developed.  
Based on this procedure, motion analysis experiments 
including level walking and walking onto a moving 
surface with three different surface speeds 
(treadmill) and three different visual stimulations 
was performed on 20 young healthy subjects.  With 
increasing surface speeds, significant increased 
leading step speed and length but decreased trailing 
step speed and length during the anticipatory stride 
were found. Decreased leading toe clearance and foot 
angle were also found during the late leading swing 
phase with increasing surface speeds. With increasing 
surface speeds, greater heel horizontal velocities 
were also observed during late anticipatory phase.  
After heel-strike onto moving surface, reactive 
adjustments revealed by altered heel contact dynamics 
were achieved through increased anterior-flexed 
pelvis and plantar-flexed ankle in faster surface 
speed condition. This phenomenon becomes significant 
with increasing surface speeds. By determining and 
comparing the joint mechanics, the effects of surface 
speed and visual stimulation was clarified.  This 
knowledge was helpful for the design of fall-
prevention devices on the facilities involved moving 
surface condition.  The findings of this complete 
motion analysis procedure will also contribute to the 
planning of rehabilitative interventions in which not 
only task-oriented management but also speed specific 
modulations should be considered. 
英文關鍵詞： moving surface, speed, visual stimulation, 
kinematics, kinetics, locomotor adjustments 
1 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
■成果報告   
□期中進度報告 
 
步行至移動表面時動作調控之生物力學分析：年齡、視覺刺
激及表面速度之影響 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC－99－WFA－2500193 
執行期間：99 年 10 月 1 日至 100 年 9 月 30 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立台灣科技大學醫學工程研究所 
 
計畫主持人：許維君 
共同主持人：呂東武、王廷明 
計畫參與人員：陳聖昌、李詩琦、胡昱安、許婉汝、王敏安 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國 101 年 2 月 28 日 
3 
 
English Abstract 
 
Loss of balance or riders who were stuck by other passengers especially when steeping onto a moving 
walkway or escalators can lead to serious injuries.  Although the biomechanical strategy when walking onto 
a moving surface has been studied, the effect of different task demands (surface speeds) and different visual 
stimulations revealed by anticipatory locomotor adjustments (ALA) and reactive locomotor adjustments 
(RLA) remained unexplored.  Thus, the main purposes of the project were to investigate the effects of task 
and visual stimulation on joint mechanics in young adults. A complete procedure to investigate end-point 
control, joint mechanics during tasks of different demands (surface speeds of treadmill) and visual 
stimulations was developed.  Based on this procedure, motion analysis experiments including level walking 
and walking onto a moving surface with three different surface speeds (treadmill) and three different visual 
stimulations was performed on 20 young healthy subjects.  With increasing surface speeds, significant 
increased leading step speed and length but decreased trailing step speed and length during the anticipatory 
stride were found. Decreased leading toe clearance and foot angle were also found during the late leading 
swing phase with increasing surface speeds. With increasing surface speeds, greater heel horizontal velocities 
were also observed during late anticipatory phase.  After heel-strike onto moving surface, reactive 
adjustments revealed by altered heel contact dynamics were achieved through increased anterior-flexed 
pelvis and plantar-flexed ankle in faster surface speed condition. This phenomenon becomes significant with 
increasing surface speeds. By determining and comparing the joint mechanics, the effects of surface speed 
and visual stimulation was clarified.  This knowledge was helpful for the design of fall-prevention devices 
on the facilities involved moving surface condition.  The findings of this complete motion analysis 
procedure will also contribute to the planning of rehabilitative interventions in which not only task-oriented 
management but also speed specific modulations should be considered. 
 
Key Words: moving surface, speed, visual stimulation, kinematics, kinetics, locomotor adjustments  
5 
 
Adapting our gait to cope with a predictably moving surface is a common facet of life in modern cities, such 
as translating between escalators in the metro station, or stepping onto moving walkways in underground 
transport, shopping malls, or at the airports.  The United States Consumer Product Safety Commission 
(USCPSC) estimates that there were approximately 9200 escalator-related injuries in the United States each 
year (USCPSC, 2008).  Studies examining escalator-related injuries have been case reports 
23
 or have 
focused on children and the elderly 
24, 25
.  It has been identified approximately 2000 children receive 
medical treatments for an escalator-related injury each year 
26
 which were often associated with falls and 
entrapment 
27
.  The elderly older than 65 were often suggested to use elevators of safety concerns 
28
.  The 
majority of those escalators injuries in other populations even in young people were cause by loss of balance 
or riders who were stuck by other passengers especially when stepping on or off from moving walkway or 
escalators 
27, 29.  Those injuries can not only occur at distal extremities but also the head (O’Neil, 2008).  
Escalator-related injury patterns have been studied at Taipei Metro Rapid Transit stations (TRTC) 
30
.  The 
study was to evaluate the effect of proposed safety rules and passenger education.  The outcome of this 
study led to recommendations for the TRTC to provide improved signage and encouragements.  Loss of 
balance, not holding the handrail, and riders struck by other passengers were also reported as the leading 
causes of injuries. 
 
Since awareness of the risks and the circumstances leading to escalators injuries allows for better direction of 
intervention strategies on the part of injury prevention, walking onto a moving surface would be the 
paradigm needed used to explore these issues.  As revealed by the above review, it is still absent on the 
knowledge of biomechanics when walking onto a moving surface in young adults.  Since loss balance, 
tripping and falling when step onto moving surface frequently occurs, the influence of this environmental 
condition on the control strategies during walking is essential for the development of fall prevention 
approaches.  Kinematic and kinetic as well as dynamic stability analyses of walking from a static onto a 
moving surface condition may help understand the influence of surface moving on gait and identify risk 
factors of falls.  However, the walking pattern when walking onto a moving surface remained unexplored. 
 
Aims of this project: 
Gait biomechanics partially determine the outcome of walking and were reflection of the ability of the human 
neuromotor system to: (1) decrease fall potential in possibly dangerous environments (before a fall occurs); 
and (2) recover from a fall event by generating corrective reactions in an attempt to avoid a fall.  To 
evaluating the multiple dimensions of gait pattern when transferring from a static to a moving surface, both 
ALA and RLA were necessary to be carefully examined.  Since investigating the task of transferring from 
ground to moving surface may help to identify the risk factors of falls, stepping on and off a moving surface 
is the paradigm used to explore these issues with the following research aims: 
 
1. To develop biomechanical index that can identify the ALA and RLA adopted by normal young adults 
when walking onto a moving surface from ground in terms of the temporal-spatial variables, kinematics 
and end-points variables, ground reaction force (GRF) and joint kinetics, control of body COM motion 
and dynamic stabilit when walking onto a moving surface from ground; 
7 
 
equidistant (about 2.5m) from the centre of an 8m walkway. Seven cameras was used to ensure that each 
marker is seen by at least two cameras at any instance. Two forceplates (AMTI, Advanced Mechanical 
Technology, U.S.A.) was used to measure the ground reaction forces (GRF) of each foot during activities. 
 
Figure 1 Body marker placement in the study. (A) Anterior view (B) Posterior view. 
 
The subjects were allowed to familiarize themselves with the walkway before experimental data were taken. 
Test conditions include (1) standing with eye-open and eye-close with each foot on one forceplate; (2) level 
walking; (3) anticipating onto moving surface (treadmill) (Fig. 2&3). Fully prepared subjects will first stand 
stationary in the middle of the walkway while data is being collected for 3 seconds. This is referred to as 
subject calibration. Since no skin movement occurs during static standing, coordinates of the markers were 
free from skin movement artefacts. At this position, skin markers therefore define the true position of the 
bone that was used as a reference for subsequent kinematic analysis. And then we took data of static standing 
position with eye-open and eye-closed for 60 seconds to evaluate the static balance performance.  
 
Dynamic testing conditions included walk along the walkway: (1) onto a static surface (condition:S0) (2) 
onto a moving surface (treadmill) with speeds of 35 m/min (slow speed, SS condition), speeds of 39 m/min 
(gait speed, GS condition), and speeds of 43 m/min (fast speed, FS condition) (Fig. 2), and (3) onto a moving 
surface (treadmill) with speeds of 39 m/min where while bars was stuck with two different types of 
inter-tapes space, namely the cue-visual stimulation (B1) condition and the busy-visual stimulation (B2) 
condition respectively (An adhesive tape was stuck across the moving belt with 40 cm inter-tapes space 
between each tape for the B1 condition, and with 20 cm inter-tapes space between each tape for the B2 
condition) (Fig. 3). 
 
(A (B
9 
 
trailing heel-strike using the heel markers.  Leading step length was defined as the horizontal distance 
between both limbs along the direction of progression from trailing heel-strike to leading heel-strike on 
moving surface (treadmill) using the heel markers. Trailing step width was defined as the horizontal distance 
between both limbs perpendicular to the direction of progression from leading pre-heel-strike to trailing 
heel-strike using the heel markers.  Leading step width was defined as the horizontal distance between both 
limbs perpendicular to the direction of progression from trailing heel-strike to leading heel-strike on moving 
surface (treadmill) using the heel markers. Stride speed was obtained by the stride length being divided by 
the amount of time between leading pre-heel-strike (T1) and leading heel-strike on moving surface (treadmill) 
(T6).  Trailing step speed was obtained by the trailing step length being divided by the amount of time 
between leading pre-heel-strike (T1) and trailing heel-strike (T3).  Leading step speed was obtained by the 
leading step length being divided by the amount of time between trailing heel-strike (T3) and leading 
heel-strike on moving surface (treadmill) (T5).  
 
End-Point Variables 
End-point variables used in the study included, toe and heel-clearance, foot angle, and horizontal heel 
velocity of leading limb. The leading limb was defined as the limb which first strike onto the moving surface 
(treadmill). The trailing limb was the limb being contralateral to the leading limb.  End-point variables used 
in the study including toe and heel-clearance, foot angle, and horizontal heel velocity of leading and trailing 
limbs.  Toe and heel clearances of both limbs was calculated as the lowest vertical distances between the 
toe/heel markers and the walking surface during the swing phase of each limb.  The foot angle was defined 
as the angle between a line joining the heel and mid-point of navicular and metatarsal turberocity and the 
walkway.  Horizontal heel velocities was also calculated by smoothing and differentiating the trajectories of 
heel marker in the A/P direction using the generalized cross-validatory spline method 
31
. 
 
Apart from the above temporospatial variables, each body segment was embedded with an orthogonal 
coordinate system with the positive x-axis directed anteriorly, positive y-axis superiorly and positive z-axis to 
the right, for kinematic analysis. A cardanic rotation sequence (Z-X-Y) was used to describe the rotational 
movements of each of the joints of the body. Three-dimensional joint angles of the leading and trialing limbs 
were calculated during the transferring cycle.  Pelvis angles and foot angles was also calculated.  Those 
angles for both limbs as well as the pelvis angles at each of the cycle points were extracted from the joint 
angle curves.  Values of all the calculated variables were extracted at six key events. 
 
1.5. Kinetic analysis 
With the measured GRF and kinematic data, intersegmental internal forces and moments at the joints of the 
extremities and at the level of lesion cite during the tested activities was calculated using inverse dynamics. 
Joint moments of both leading and trailing limbs as well as joint power of the trailing limb during the stance 
phase was calculated and normalized to body weight and leg length (distance between ipsilateral ASIS and 
medial malleolus).  GRF was measured by the forceplates.  GRF and joint moments of both the leading 
and trailing limbs at each of the critical events was used for subsequent statistical analysis.  For each trial, 
peak moments of each of the joints in the leading and trailing limb during stance phase was extracted from 
11 
 
ALA were also found with reduced maximal leading toe-clearance and unchanged minimal toe-clearance 
may be required for a safe and smooth landing during one previous stride when walking onto a moving 
surface.  The decreased maximal toe-clearance when anticipating a moving surface was also an important 
ALA observed during the anticipatory phase.  In contrast to the strategies when stepping upon a higher 
plateform, the higher foot lifts was reported and was related to the need to clear the edge of the platform.  
The moving surface anticipation, in contrast, toe-clearance was found to be lower at the trialing stance limb.  
This anticipatory reduced toe-clearance was adapted for a smoother landing with a cautioned manner. 
 
An adjustment of heel horizontal velocity of the leading limb revealed an intention of approaching speed of 
moving surface when anticipating walking onto it.  This ALA as an earlier arrest to decrease the 
deceleration of horizontal heel motion occur 4% of leading stride right before T5 (Figure 5). In contrast to the 
strategies observed in the literature for the sips condition, higher horizontal heel contact velocity and slower 
transition of the whole body COM were reported to induce initiation of slip-induced falls.  However, the 
increased velocity of heel along with the moving surface direction may be necessary for a smoother transfer 
to a new BOS which is moving. (Fig. 5) 
 
Figure 5 Curves in the heel horizontal velocity of the leading limbs when walking on surface with slower 
speed (dash lines) and on to faster moving surface (solid lines).  The vertical lines indicated the key events: 
leading heel-strike (T1), trailing toe-off (T2), trailing heel-strike (T3), leading toe-off (T4), and leading 
heel-strike on moving surface (T5). 
 
Figure 3 Ensemble-averaged sagittal patterns of hip, knee, and ankle joint angle of (a) leading and (b) trailing 
limbs during the anticipatory phase.  An asterisk indicates significant difference with increasing surface 
speeds (i.e., p<0.05).  Vertical lines indicate the key events: leading heel-strike (T1), trailing toe-off (T2), 
trailing heel-strike (T3), leading toe-off (T4), and leading heel-strike on moving surface (T5). 
13 
 
moving surface (T5). (c) posterior and (c) anterior GRF of leading limb; and (d) posterior and (f) anterior 
GRF of trailing limb during one static and 9 types of moving surface conditions. 
 
Corrective reactions to slip events were studied and it has been shown that shortly after heel-strike, corrective 
joint moments generated by the leading limb, namely flexion moment at the knee and extension moment at 
the hip, slow down the sliding motion of the foot and possibly minimize the fall of the body 
32, 33
.  Shorter 
DLS while on the slippery surface was found to be key factors that distinguish between individuals who fall 
due to a slip and those that do not were 
34
. 
 
    
Figure 5 Sagittal patterns of ankle moments of the leading limb when walking onto a surface with slow speed 
(dashed lines or white bars), medium speed (thin lines or grey bars), and fast speed (thick lines or black bars) 
groups with clean moving surface (B0) (B), cue-visual stimulation condition (B1), and (C) busy-visual 
stimulation condition (B2). (*p<0.05). Positive values indicate extensor moments, while negative values indicate 
flexor moments. Key events: (a) leading heel-strike (LHeelOn), (b) trailing toe-off (TPreToeOff), (c) trailing 
heel-strike (THeelOn), (d) leading toe-off (LToeOff). 
 
    
Figure 6 Sagittal patterns of ankle moments of the trailing limb when walking onto a surface with slow speed 
(dashed lines or white bars), medium speed (thin lines or grey bars), and fast speed (thick lines or black bars) 
groups with clean moving surface (B0) (B), cue-visual stimulation condition (B1), and (C) busy-visual 
stimulation condition (B2). (*p<0.05). Positive values indicate extensor moments, while negative values indicate 
flexor moments. Key events: (a) leading heel-strike (LHeelOn), (b) trailing toe-off (TPreToeOff), (c) trailing 
heel-strike (THeelOn), (d) leading toe-off (LToeOff). 
 
Conclusions 
Even when asked to walk as naturally as possible, ALAs were identified in terms of altered temporal-spatial 
variables and control of end-points when walking onto moving surfaces with various speeds in young 
subjects.  With altered speed, length, and time of leading and trailing steps, the subjects adopted specific 
compensatory gait patterns indicated by the changes in the end-point variables and joint angles and moments 
of the lower extremities. Biomechanical characteristics of steps prior to and onto a targeted known moving 
surface with various speeds and visual stimulations conditions area have been compared.  Foot-floor angle 
* 
︷ 
︷ ︷ * * * ︷ 
(a) (b) (c) (d) 
* 
︷ 
︷ ︷ * * 
(a) (b) (c) (d) 
 15 
REFERENCES 
 
1. Forssberg H, Grillner S, Halbertsma J, Rossignol S. The locomotion of the low spinal cat. II. Interlimb 
coordination. Acta Physiol Scand 1980;108:283-95. 
2. Hoyert DL, Arias E, Smith BL, Murphy SL, Kochanek KD. Deaths: Final data for 1999.  
2001;49:1-113. 
3. Fife D, Barancik JI. Northeastern Ohio Trauma Study III: Incidence of fractures.  1985;14:244-8. 
4. Blake A, Morgan M, Dallosso H, Ebrahim S, Arie T, Fentem P et al. Falls by elderly people at home: 
prevalence and associated factors.  1988;17:365-72. 
5. Lu T-W, Chen H-L, Chen S-C. Comparisons of the lower limb kinematics between young and older 
adults when crossing obstacles of different heights. Gait Posture 2006;23:471-9. 
6. Tinetti M, Speechley M. Prevention of falls among the elderly.  1989;320:1055-9. 
7. Tinetti ME, Doucette J, Claus E, Marottoli R. Risk factors for serious injury during falls by older persons 
in the community.[see comment].  1995;43:1214-21. 
8. Means KM, Rodell DE, O'Sullivan PS. Obstacle course performance and risk of falling in 
community-dwelling elderly persons. Arch Phys Med Rehabil 1998;79:1570-6. 
9. Sutherland DH. Gait analysis in cerebral palsy.  1978;20:807-13. 
10. Sutherland DHMD, Davids JRMD. Common Gait Abnormalities of the Knee in Cerebral Palsy. 
[Miscellaneous]. Clinical Orthopaedics & Related Research March 1993;288:139-147. 
11. Tardieu G, Tardieu C, Colbeau-Justin P, Lespargot A. Muscle hypoextensibility in children with cerebral 
palsy: II. Therapeutic implications.  1982;63:103-7. 
12. Aruin AS. The effect of asymmetry of posture on anticipatory postural adjustments. Neuroscience letters 
2006;401:150-3. 
13. Chen HL, Lu TW. Comparisons of the joint moments between leading and trailing limb in young adults 
when stepping over obstacles.  2006;23:69-77. 
14. Chen HL, Lu TW, Lin HC. Three-dimensional kinematic analysis of stepping over obstacles in young 
subjects.  2004;16:157-64. 
15. Lu TW, Chen HL, Chen SC. Comparisons of the lower limb kinematics between young and older adults 
when crossing obstacles of different heights.  2006;23:471-9. 
16. Lu TW, Chen HL, Wang TM. Obstacle crossing in older adults with medial compartment knee 
osteoarthritis.  2007:doi:10.1016/j.gaitpost.2006.12.002. 
17. Patla AE, Adkin A, Martin C, Holden R, Prentice S. Characteristics of voluntary visual sampling of the 
environment for safe locomotion over different terrains.  1996;112:513-22. 
18. Patla AE, Frank JS, Winter DA. Assessment of balance control in the elderly: Major issues. Physiother 
Can 1990;42:89-97. 
19. Winter DA. Anatomy, Biomechanics and Control of Balance During Standing and Walking. Waterloo 
Ontario: Waterloo Biomechanics; 1995. 
20. Reisman DS, Scholz JP, Schoner G. Coordination underlying the control of whole body momentum 
during sit-to-stand.  2002;15:45-55. 
21. Collins JJ, Luca CJD. Open-loop and close-loop control of posture: A random-walk analysis of 
center-of-pressure trajectories.  1993;95:308-18. 
 1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：2011年 9月 1日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議為第二十三屆生物力學會議（ISB 2011 Congress XXIII），於 2011年 7月 3
日至 7月 6日在比利時舉行，此會議為生物力學領域最重要的國際會議，議題包含六大
面向(approach)：  
一、 解剖學（anatomy-oriented）  
二、 生理學（physiology-oriented）  
三、 臨床應用（clinically-oriented）  
四、 生物工程（bioengineering）  
五、 模型建構方法（modelling & methods）  
計畫編號 NSC－99－WFA－2500193 
計畫名稱 步行至移動表面時動作調控之生物力學分析：年齡、視覺刺激及表面速
度之影響 
出國人員
姓名 
許維君 
服務機構
及職稱 
國台灣科技大學醫學工程研究所 
助理教授 
會議時間 
2011年 7月 3日至 7
月 6日 會議地點 比利時 
會議名稱 
(中文)第二十三屆生物力學會議 
(英文) ISB 2011 Congress XXIII 
發表論文
題目 
1. Anticipatory Locomotor Adjustments of the Lower Extremities in Young Adults 
when Walking onto a Moving Surface 
2. Inter-Joint Coordination of the Lower Limb Joints in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus 
During Obstacle-Crossing 
附件四 
 3 
熱烈討論，不限於會議進行中，也包括中場的時間。 
二、與會心得 
參與這大型國際會議，可在短時間有效率地瞭解國際性的研究情況與進展。在本
校台灣科技大學任職屆滿一年，個人特別留意工程背景與醫學背景的研究團隊在發
表上口頭以及海報呈現方式的異同。兼顧臨床意義又有雄厚技術的發表，在此國際
會議上才得以飽覽。 
三、建議 
十分感謝國科會提供補助六萬元，讓前往歐洲昂貴花費的負擔得以減輕一些，補助
款主要用來補助四萬六千元的機票費用以及一萬四千元的會議註冊費，剩餘的五千元會
議註冊費，以及其餘生活費及參訪費用，就得由個人自行負擔。  
由看見大會提供各國參加情況的統計，台灣僅占了 5%，若政府能以全額實質鼓勵研
究人員參與重要之國際會議，相信更有助於學術的國際化。最後，再次感謝國科會補助
出國參加國際研討會。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
攜回的資料，包括會議的詳細議程，以及一本大會論文(紙本以及電子檔)。 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：許維君 計畫編號：99-2218-E-011-033- 
計畫名稱：步行至移動表面時動作調控之生物力學分析：年齡、視覺刺激及表面速度之影響 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 2 70%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 10%  
研討會論文 2 0 20% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
