有限狀態馬可夫通道之寬頻無線通訊通道模式 
NSC 94－2213－E－019－002－ 
94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：吳家琪 
計畫參與人員：周漢威、陳國祥 
 
前言 
本專題研究計畫的目的是找出有效的演算法來建構一個寬頻無線的衰減通道。不論是對於
寬頻或者是極寬頻的衰減通道，我們不能使用傳統通道模型來代表寬頻的衰減通道，當通
道被視為寬頻通道時，通道衰減在時間上和頻率上會有區塊衰減效應。在寬頻或極寬頻的
無線通道情況下，一個均勻的訊號在時域和頻域並不能被完整的使用，利用找出頻寬衰減
上下限來決定區塊頻寬該多大的方式，提供了分割頻寬時能有一個適合的範圍，提供我們
討論時域和頻域在時變脈衝響應的相關性。在寬頻衰減通道時，對一個非常大的頻寬切割
之後，每一個被切割後的頻寬我們使用有限狀態的馬可夫通道來描述。將接收到的訊雜比
分割成有限各區間後，就能夠利用有限狀態馬可夫通道模型建立起寬頻的雷立衰減通道。 
研究目的與方法 
When transmitted over wireless communication channels, signals will be fluctuated between 
transmitters and receivers, this is the fading phenomena. The major effect is multipath fading in 
the propagation mechanism and is often described by a Rayleigh fading channel. Wang and 
Moayeri [1] proposed the finite-State Markov channel (FSMC) algorithm to model the 
narrowband fading channels. By partition the range of the received signal-to-noise ratio into a 
finite number of intervals, FSMC scheme can be applied to model Rayleigh fading channels. 
Broadband and ultra-broadband fading channels are viewed with block fading in time and 
frequency, as bandwidth increasing infinitely capacity becomes zero when signal is constrained in 
its second moment. Meddard and Tse [2] offered a method to determine the range of bandwidth in 
block-fading channels. Although bandwidth ranges may be scaled, there are always interfered 
with each other. Further study regarding these interferences between the channel capacity and 
correlation of time and frequency is referred in Medard and Gallager’s detailed discussion [3]. 
They have pointed out that: 1) the relativities of channel capacity and correlation functions, and 2) 
the valid capacity with upper bound by fourth moment constrained. 
Figure 1 is the general block diagram of a wireless communication system, which shows input 
data pass through a fading channel from transmitter to receiver. Transmitter and receiver are 
composed of two units, separately. One unit is the encoder/decoder which can compress source 
and add the redundancy to protect data. The other is the modulator/demodulator to get the shaped 
pulses and suitable wavelength for signal wave propagation. Fading channel is between the 
transmitter and receiver, and can cause received signals to be distorted seriously in wireless 
communications. 
 
Figure 1. A wireless communication system structure 
Since  
1
.
0
,     {0,1,2, , 1}
K
k k l k
l
p t p k K
−
=
= ∀ ∈ −∑ K , 
we can simplify the equation to 
ptT = pt,  
where pt is the transpose of p. 
A complete description of FSMC requires additional information on channel quality for each 
state. Define a K×1 crossover probability vector e with its elements ek, ∀k∈{0, 1, 2, …, K-1}, 
being the crossover probability of the binary symmetric channel associated with state k. A FSMC 
is then uniquely defined by T, p and e. The overall average error probability η of the FSMC is 
shown 
1
0
p e
K
t
k k
k
p eη −
=
= = ∑  
The SNR performance of a wireless communication system over Rayleigh fading channels is 
time-varying and it has been applied to characterize the channel quality in terms of the average 
error probability. By partitioning the range of the received SNR into a finite set of intervals, we 
are able to describe a Rayleigh fading channel by the finite-state model. We applied a Markov 
chain algorithm to illustrate the transition between states from one observation time to the next. A 
finite-state can then be used to model the Rayleigh fading channel. 
To calculate the transition probabilities tj,k, we have assumed that the Rayleigh fading channel 
is slow enough that the received SNR remains at a certain level for the time duration of a channel 
symbol. The channel states associated with consecutive symbols are assumed to be neighboring 
states. Furthermore, each state can have no more than three outgoing and incoming transitions as 
shown in Fig. 3 
, 0,     | |  1j kt j k= ∀ − >  
 
Figure. 3 K-states FSMC transitions modeling a Rayleigh fading channel 
 
Considering a communication system with a transmission rate of Rt symbols per second, there are, 
on the average, 
( )k
t t kR R p= × , 
which is the symbols per second transmitted during which the channel is in state sk. Due to the 
slow fading assumption, we can conclude that the level crossing rate at Ak and/or Ak+1 is much 
smaller than the value ( )ktR .  
z The transition probability tk,k+1 can then be approximated by the ratio of the expected 
level crossing at Ak+1 divided by the average symbols per second that the SNR falls in 
the interval associated with state sk.  
z Similarly, the transition probability tk,k-1 can be approximated by the ratio of the 
expected level crossing at Ak divided by the average symbols per second that the SNR 
falls in the interval associated with state sk.  
Specifically, let Nk, k = 1, 2, 3, …, K-1, be the expected number of times per second the received 
over a coherence bandwidth, its second moment is upper bounded by ( )2 /X ε μ≤  and the 
amplitude is upper bounded by ( ) 2/ Xγ ε , where the fourth moment of X[i]j is 2/γ μ  with 
average energy constraint /ε μ . 
We have found the upper bound that signals satisfy the second moment constraint with 
equation. Suppose that we obtain an upper bound using a signaling scheme which doesn’t meet 
the second moment constraint with equation, we can multiply the signals by some α > 1 to 
achieve the second moment constraint with equation. Moreover, at the receiver we could divide 
the received signal by α resulted in reducing the AWGN. Thus, by the data processing theorem, 
the capacity of the channel with the input multiplied by α  would be greater than that of the 
channel without multiplying by α. 
Meddard and Tse [3] found the upper bound on channel capacity in the following equation: 
2
2 2
2 2
2
( , , , , , )
log 1 log 1
2 2
F
F F
C W T
W TW
T
ε σ μ γ
μ ε με γσ σμ γ με
⎛ ⎞⎛ ⎞≤ + − +⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
. 
There are two limited conditions: when γÆ ∞, the maximum value is  
2log( 1)
2 F
WC μ εσ μ= + . 
When μÆ ∞, the minimum value is  
2lim ( , , , , , ) 0FC W Tμ ε σ μ γ→∞ → . 
Applying the upper and lower bounds, we have noticed that the spreading from μ Æ nμ is 
beneficial iff  
2 2( , , , , , ) ( , , , , , )F FC W T C W T nε σ μ γ ε σ μ γ≤ . 
We also found that, given the convexity of capacity, we have that 
2 2( , , , , , ) ( , , , , , )F FC W T nC W Tn
εε σ μ γ σ μ γ= . 
According to above equations, we should be able to scale the original broadband channel 
bandwidth to n sub-bandwidth. 
 
Broadband/Ultra-Broadband Fading Channel Models with FSMC 
An ultra-broadband fading channel is modeled by each divided bandwidth which contains 
broadband FSMC in Fig. 5.  
  
Figure 5. An Ultra-broadband fading channel modeled by FSMC 
 
The algorithm for modeling an ultra-broadband fading channel is given as: 
