英文摘要 
Keywords: Design-for-Yield, Process variation, Yield optimization, Analog design automation 
With nanometer semiconductor technology, the device size is continuously shrinking. 
Currently, the device parameter variations have more and more impacts on the chip performance 
and yield. In order to solve this issue, design-for-yield (DFY) techniques are getting popular, 
which try to consider the process variation effects in early design stages. The DFY techniques for 
digital circuits have been studied for several years. However, for more sensitive analog circuits, 
no systematic DFY techniques are available now. Therefore, in this three-year project, we will try 
to develop several automatic yield optimization techniques for analog circuits. Co-working with 
other sub-projects, we will also try to integrate the yield optimization techniques into the 
automation platform to fast generate the required analog designs with yield consideration. 
Design centering is one of the popular yield optimization techniques. Its aim is to find a 
nominal design that makes most simulation samples under process variation fall into the feasible 
design region. Besides moving the nominal point, another way to further improve the design yield 
is to reduce its sensitivity to process variation by device sizing. Then, the performance 
distribution under process variation will be shrunk, which raises the design yield automatically. 
Therefore, in this three-year project, we will try to develop some device sizing algorithms to 
reduce the process sensitivity of a given analog design. Those algorithms will be integrated with 
the nominal point moving algorithm developed in previous project to build a fast yield 
optimization platform for analog circuits. 
Although analog synthesis has become an efficient design methodology for SOC designs, 
the process variation effects are not considered in traditional automation algorithms. Without 
yield consideration, those optimization algorithms typically push the system performances to 
some corners that are vulnerable to parametric variation. However, most of the traditional yield 
optimization techniques often suffer high computation overhead. Therefore, in this three-year 
project, we will try to integrate our yield improving methods into the analog design automation 
platform. Using the design experience from other subprojects, we will develop a fast method to 
generate an initial design that satisfies all design specifications at the nominal point. Then, the 
proposed yield improving methods can be applied to improve the yield of analog IPs. Hope this 
design automation platform can save considerable design time for analog circuits and improve the 
overall yield of SOC designs. 
 
 
solution. However, because the short-channel effects are more and more significant in advanced 
CMOS technologies, those equations often have large prediction errors in some circuit 
performance. In order to meet the target specifications, several iterations or manual adjustment 
are still required to adjust circuits obtained by this approach. 
 
Figure 1. The design flow of paper [4] 
The general solution for the sizing problem is adopting circuit simulators in the sizing 
iterations until finding the relatively better design [5,6]. This method can obtain more accurate 
results, but often takes plenty of time. When the number of components increases, the computing 
time to get a feasible sizing solution may become worse. In the previous work [6], the authors 
propose a different method that combines the advantages of equation-based and simulation-based 
approaches. First, the bias point ranges are identified so that every transistor can operate in its 
saturation region. Second, simulated annealing algorithm (SA) [7] is adopted to search the 
feasible bias point range and find the relatively better solution. After the bias voltages in the 
circuits are determined, we can search a pre-built lookup table to find the corresponding transistor 
size according to the node voltages of its three terminals. Then, a circuit simulation is performed 
to check the circuit performance and determine the cost of this solution. The overall flow chart is 
illustrated in Figure 1. Since the operating ranges of transistors are also considered, the searching 
space in SA algorithm can be reduced to speed up the convergence of this iterative approach. 
2.2 Design space constraints 
The first constraint is to keep each device in the proper working mode. Therefore, in this 
subsection, these basic design space constraints are discussed first. The external bias voltage VB3 
is to provide enough voltage so that M5 and M7 can be turned ON. Assume the output common 
mode voltage is denoted as VOCM, and the threshold voltage of NMOS is denoted as VTN. Three 
equations (1)-(3) can be listed as the constraints for VB3. 
VB3≧VTN                                                           (1) 
VB3-VOCM<VTN                                                      (2) 
VB3-VB2<VTN                                                        (3) 
About the internal voltages VB1 and VB2, they cannot be directly set from users like VB3. 
Therefore, designers have to adjust proper device sizes such that VB1 and VB2 can keep all 
transistors operate in saturation mode. Assume the input common mode voltage is denoted as 
VICM, and the threshold voltage of PMOS is denoted as VTP. Four equations (4)-(7) can be listed 
as the constraints of VB1 and VB2. 
VDD-VB1>VTP                                                       (4) 
VICM-VB1<VTN                                                       (5) 
VOCM-VB1<VTP                                                      (6) 
VICM-VB2>VTN                                                       (7) 
All the bias points in the range constrained by Equations (4)-(7) can ensure all MOS 
transistors operate in saturation mode. However, this does not guarantee that the circuit 
performance can reach the required specifications. For this circuit, a small experiment is 
performed to provide an interesting observation. Figure 4 shows the relationship between the OP 
gain and the two bias points VB1 and VB2. For each VB2 value, all possible VB1 values are swept 
and measure the best OP gain with all possible device sizes. If the required OP gain is 80dB, there 
is no feasible solution if VB2 is 0.1V, even though all MOS transistors still work in saturation 
mode. It implies that keeping each device in the proper working mode is not enough to achieve 
the required specifications. More constraints should be derived from the target specifications, 
which will be described in next section. 
   
ౝౣమ
౅ీౝౚ౩మ
౅ీ ା
ౝౚ౩బ
౅ీ
ൈ
ౝౣల
౅ీౝౚ౩ల
౅ీ ା
ౝౚ౩ళ
౅ీ
൐ Gainୱ୮ୣୡ                                        (12) 
ౝౣమ
౅ీౝౚ౩మ
౅ీ ା
ౝౚ౩బ
౅ీ
ൈ
ౝౣబ
౅ీౝౚ౩ఱ
౅ీ
൐ CMRRୱ୮ୣୡ                                             (13) 
V୆ଵ ൐ ሺV୓ ൅ ଵଶOSRሻ െ V୘୔                                               (14) 
ౝౚమ
౅ీ ൈ୍౏౏
େి ൐ GBୱ୮ୣୡ                                                        (15) 
 
Figure 5. The narrowed bias points range 
2.4 Building models for gm/Id, gds/Id, and transistor sizing 
Because the gm/Id value has no relationship to the device sizes, simple regression functions 
are accurate enough without the complex effects from W and L. Unlike the complex 5-variable 
functions proposed in [4], the models for gm/Id and gds/Id in the proposed approach have two 
variables (Vgs, Vds) only. Constructing these regression equations does not take too much 
simulation time because only a transistor is simulated without sweeping different device sizes. 
Once these regression equations are built, they can be reused in other cases until the technology 
file is changed. Therefore, HSPICE simulation results with level-49 transistor models are adopted 
in this work to build the gm/Id and gds/Id models of NMOS and PMOS transistors respectively. 
Those accurate results significantly improve the accuracy of the predicted solutions. 
After finding the bias point values, similar approach as in [6] is adopted to get the transistor 
size by a pre-built lookup table. Under different combinations of Vgs and Vds, the corresponding 
W/L ratio that causes a unit source-to-drain current is recorded in a pre-built table, which is 
obtained by simulating a transistor in HSPICE. Then, multiplied by its real current Id can obtain 
the approximate transistor size for this case. Using this approach, the device sizes can be obtained 
optimization goals are the same in both approaches for a fair comparison, which is to minimize 
the power consumption when all specifications are satisfied. According to the measurement 
results, both approaches can find a feasible solution for each case. 
In order to observe the speedup from narrowed searching space, three different initial points 
are generated for the two approaches under the same specifications. According to the data shown 
in the row “Speedup” of Table I, which is obtained from dividing the runtime of SA-based 
algorithm by the runtime of the proposed algorithm, the proposed approach can obtain significant 
speedup due to the reduced searching space. For initial point 3, the speedup is even higher. The 
internal voltages of initial point 3 can make all transistors operate in saturation region, but cannot 
reach the required specifications in our analysis. Therefore, traditional SA-based algorithm 
requires more time to search for a feasible bias point, which can be easily checked in the 
proposed approach. All infeasible points can be neglected in the proposed approach to focus the 
searching efforts on finding a minimal cost solution. Therefore, the proposed algorithm has 
similar computation time in all cases, no matter what initial point is.  
TABLE I Experimental results of two-stage OPA 
 
Another case, the folded-cascode OPA shown in Figure 7, is studied to demonstrate the 
proposed approach on different circuits. In this circuit, Vb1 to Vb5 are five input voltages that can 
be set by users. Vd0, Vd6, and Vd8 are the internal voltages that are determined by the device sizes. 
The experimental results with TSMC 0.18um process are shown in Table II, in which the 
optimization goal is to minimize the power and area simultaneously. According to the 
experimental results, the same trend as in the two-stage OPA can be observed. The proposed 
shorter computation time compared to the previous SA-based approach. The run time of the SA 
algorithm can be reduced up to 4.15X, depending on the quality of initial points. These results 
have demonstrated that the proposed approach is indeed an efficient method to improve the 
efficiency of analog synthesis procedure. The preliminary results have been published in a related 
conference [10]. The extended version is also in the review process now. 
In the first year of this project, we have developed an efficient synthesis approach for analog 
circuits. After combining the yield considerations with this approach in the following projects, we 
believe that this approach can help designers to solve the yield issues efficiently. We also very 
appreciate for the supports from National Science Council. With that supports, our group can 
continuously generate good results, as summarized in Table II. In the future, we will keep going 
to study the yield-aware CAD techniques for analog circuits. Hope we can develop more useful 
techniques and more SOC engineers to help the whole IC industries. 
Table III.  The publication numbers of our group during this project year 
Thesis Journal Conf. SCI EI 
6 2 6 2 3 
四、 參考文獻 
[1] F. El-Turky and E. E. Perry, “BLADES: An Artificial Intelligence Approach to Analog 
Circuit Design”, IEEE Trans. on Computer-Aided Design, vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 680-692, Jun. 
1989. 
[2] J. Mahattanakul and J. Chutichatuporn, “Design Procedure for Two-Stage CMOS Op-Amp 
with Flexible Noise-Power Balancing Scheme”, IEEE Trans. on Circuits and Systems-I: 
Regular Papers, vol. 52, no. 8, pp. 1508-1514, Aug. 2005. 
[3]  P. Mandal, V. Visvanathan, “CMOS Op-Amp Sizing Using a Geometric Programming 
Formulation”, IEEE Trans. on Computer-Aided Design, vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 22-38, Jan. 2001. 
[4] W. Gao and R. Hornsey, “A Power Optimization Method for CMOS Op-Amps Using 
Sub-Space Based Geometric Programming”, in Proc. Design, Automation and Test in Europe, 
pp. 508-513, 2010. 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                        100年 4月 29日 
報告人姓名 
 
李 牧 勳 
 
服務機構
及職稱 中央大學電機所博士班 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2011/01/25~2011/01/28 
日本橫濱 
本會核定
補助文號
 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2010年國際亞洲與泛太平洋設計自動化研討會 
 (英文) Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conference 2011 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 適用於功率源分析之高階電流波形建模技術 
 (英文) High-Level Current Waveform Modeling Techniques for Power Supply 
Noise Analysis 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、 參加會議經過 
此次之國際電路以及系統研討會選在日本橫濱市的 Pacifico Yokohama之國
際會議中心舉行，一月二十五日大會開設數個短期課程，如先進 CMOS 元
件分析以及 3D IC 的整合與設計。正式會議則是於一月二十六日展開。開
幕式之後邀請 Takayuki Kawahara 博士做 keynote speech，對於現今之
Non-Volatile Memory and Normally-Off Computing之深刻的介紹，在每天早
上，Ajoy Bose博士以及 Subhasish Mitra教授介紹了如何處理高階層複雜的
問題以及如何設計更加有彈性的系統，讓我了解了許多現今大家最重視的問
題，學術論文的部分則分成數個 parallel section分散在三天當中做口頭報告
以及海報展示。本人的論文被安排在第二天下午以海報展示的方式大會中的
專家一起討論並且交換研究心得，讓我獲益不少。並且獲頒最佳海報。此外
亦於晚宴及空檔時間和各地學者交換經驗，並認識了許多研究上的先進，相
信對我日後的研究工作有很大的幫助。 
 
二、 與會心得 
這次與會，可以了解到進入奈米時代電路與系統這個領域進步的快速，對於
目前最新的發展，以及自己正在研究的題目方向，也都有了更清楚的認知，
看過別人的作品之後，對自己的優點以及缺點也更加的熟悉，當然也更加激
勵我自己必需更努力，來改善研究上的缺失，使研究能夠更得上現今一流大
學的程度。也特別感謝國科會的支持，在研究領域上給予極大的幫助，日後
我們將會繼續努力，爭取更好的表現。 
三、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文集與論文光碟片。 
 
 
 
 2 
information according to the resistance on the supply line [4]. 
After modifying the data stored in standard libraries (.lib) and 
the events stored in activity files (.vcd), using the previous 
method [1,3] can also obtain accurate supply current waveforms 
and IR-drop values for any given supply resistance, as 
demonstrated by the experiments on several benchmark circuits. 
The experimental results are shown in Table I. The average 
peak voltage error is around 5% only, which is accurate enough 
for gate-level applications. Fig.2 shows the estimated current 
waveforms of c7552 and s9234 circuit, which are very close to 
HSPICE results. 
 
(a)                                                                (b) 
Figure 1. The estimated current waveform of (a) c7552 and (b) s9234 circuits at 
gate level 
 
Figure 2. The estimated current waveform of s9234 circuits with 10 ohm 
resistance on supply lines. 
TABLE I.  EXPERIMENTAL RESULT OF GATE-LEVEL IR-DROP ANALYSIS  
RWIRE 
(ohm) 
ISCAS85 ISCAS89 
eVpeak eTpeak CORR eVpeak eTpeak CORR 
2.5 0.29% 4.04% 0.98 0.72% 14.59% 0.91 
5 0.78% 4.85% 0.96 2.70% 13.28% 0.89 
10 1.90% 5.68% 0.95 4.48% 15.99% 0.82 
III. MACRO-LEVEL CURRENT MODEL  
For function-level analysis, a macro-level current model is 
proposed to estimate the supply currents using primary input 
patterns only. The major problem in macro-level current 
modeling is the various current waveforms under numerous 
input combinations. Instead of modeling the current waveforms 
of the whole logic block directly, we proposes a different 
approach that builds several internal current models to form the 
overall supply current waveforms [5]. According to the signal 
arrival time, those gates with similar arrival time will be 
grouped as a super-gate. With similar signal arrival time, the 
overall current waveform of this block is more similar to a 
triangle, which can be recorded easily with fewer errors. Then, 
combining all triangles of every super-gate in time obtains a 
more accurate supply current waveform, especially for 
multi-peak cases. Because the logic levels are often limited even 
in large circuits, this approach will not increase the modeling 
complexity too much but improve the accuracy significantly. 
The experimental results of several circuits are shown in Table 
II. The peak average error is reduced about 30% and the average 
waveform correlation is increased to 0.88 with the proposed 
dynamic levelization approach. Fig.3 shows that the estimated 
waveform with the proposed method (DYA) is more accurate 
than no-levelization method.  
 
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
x 10
-3
 
 
Without Levelization
HSPICE
DYA
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
x 10
-3
 
 
HSPICE
Without Levelization
DYA
sample index sample index
C
u
rr
e
n
t 
(A
)
C
u
rr
e
n
t 
(A
)
(a) (b)  
Figure 3. The estimated current waveform of c880 circuits at macro level 
TABLE II.  EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS  OF MACRO-LEVEL MODEL  
 Without Levelization Dynamic Levelization 
 ep,avg et,avg Corr ep,avg et,avg Corr 
alu2 40.72% 12.01% 0.92 20.07% 9.69% 0.90 
cu 89.77% 13.10% 0.86 26.37% 10.90% 0.86 
f51m 36.02% 10.39% 0.91 18.16% 9.46% 0.93 
mux 142.34% 14.99% 0.83 26.25% 14.94% 0.84 
vdao 74.74% 37.98% 0.68 21.16% 13.79% 0.83 
c880 30.08% 11.79% 0.86 23.33% 10.30% 0.92 
c1355 35.98% 17.59% 0.82 17.42% 4.65% 0.90 
c1908 35.73% 26.11% 0.85 9.71% 10.15% 0.93 
Average 49.01% 18.00% 0.84 20.31% 10.49% 0.88 
The proposed macro-level current waveform model can be 
used to obtain the ideal current waveforms at early design stage. 
However, the ideal current waveform must be modified to 
reflect the different resistance on supply lines. Thus, a transform 
method is also required to modify the ideal current waveform 
for analyzing power supply noise. We are studying this issue 
now and will publish the results soon. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
In my research, two current waveform modeling 
techniques are proposed to fulfill the lack of the current power 
supply noise analysis flow. First, an analytical gate-level current 
model using standard library information is proposed. The 
current waveform with IR-drop effects can be estimated by 
simple modification of standard library information.  Second, 
the macro-level current model using dynamic levelization 
method is proposed. With dynamic levelization, the model 
complexity and estimation error of supply current waveform are 
significantly reduced. If these techniques can be integrated in 
the present design flow, the power integrity check can be 
performed to prevent PSN issues at early design stages. 
REFERENCES 
[1] M.-S. Lee, C.-H. Lin, C.-N. J. Liu and S.-C. Lin, “Quick supply current 
waveform estimation at gate level using existed cell library information,” 
ACM/IEEE Great Lakes Symposium on VLSI, pages 135-138, May 
2008. 
[2] Y.-C. Liu, M.-S. M. Lee, H.-Y. Liao and C.-N. J. Liu, “A Practical 
High-Level Current Model for Embedded SRAM", The 20th VLSI 
Design/CAD Symposium, Hualien, Taiwan, August 2009 
[3] M.-S. Lee and C.-N. J. Liu, “Dynamic supply current waveform 
estimation with standard library information”, IEICE Trans on Fund. 
Electronics, Communications and Computer Sciences, pages 595-606, 
Vol.93-A No.3, March 2010. 
[4] M.-S. M. Lee, K.-S. Lai, C.-L. Hsu and C.-N. J. Liu, “Dynamic IR Drop 
Estimation at Gate Level with Standard Library Information”, IEEE 
International Symposium on Circuit and Systems, pages 2606-2609, May 
2010. 
[5] J.-C. Hsu, M.-S. M. Lee, W.-T. L. and C.-N. J. Liu, “IP-Based 
High-Level Supply Current Model Using Dynamic Levelization 
Algorithm”, The 21st VLSI Design/CAD Symposium, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan, August 2010.  
ILP-Based Inter-Die Routing for 3D ICs 
Chia-Jen Chang, Pao-Jen Huang, Tai-Chen Chen, and Chien-Nan Jimmy Liu 
Department of Electrical Engineering, National Central University, Taiwan 
{975201024, 93541011}@cc.ncu.edu.tw, {tcchen, jimmy}@ee.ncu.edu.tw 
ABSTRACT 
The 3D IC is an emerging technology. The primary 
emphasis on 3D-IC routing is the interface issues across dies. 
To handle the interface issue of connections, the inter-die 
routing, which uses micro bumps and two single-layer RDLs 
(Re-Distribution Layers) to achieve the connection between 
adjacent dies, is adopted. In this paper, we present an inter-die 
routing algorithm for 3D ICs with a pre-defined netlist. Our 
algorithm is based on integer linear programming (ILP) and 
adopts a two-stage technique of micro-bump assignment 
followed by non-regular RDL routing. First, the micro-bump 
assignment selects suitable micro-bumps for the pre-defined 
netlist such that no crossing problem exists inside the 
bounding boxes of each net. After the micro-bump assignment, 
the netlist is divided into two sub-netlists, one is for the upper 
RDL and the other is for the lower RDL. Second, the non-
regular RDL routing determines minimum and non-crossing 
global paths for sub-netlists in the upper and lower RDLs 
individually. Experimental results show that our approach can 
obtain optimal wirelength and achieve 100% routability under 
reasonable CPU times. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
The three dimensional integrated circuit (3D IC) is an 
emerging technology with great potential on alleviating the 
long interconnect problems and integrating heterogeneous 
components for System-on-Chip (SoC) or System-in-Package 
(SiP) by stacking multiple active layers together [3, 5, 6]. The 
key feature of 3D ICs is that the interconnections of 
transistors on different chip layers can connect in z-axis 
direction by Through-Silicon-Vias (TSVs), which reduce 
interconnection length considerably. The advantages of 3D 
ICs include the reduction of global interconnection length, 
higher transistor density, better performance, and power 
efficiency [2]. Therefore, 3D ICs are the promising 
alternative to current 2D ICs. 
The primary emphasis on 3D-IC routing is the interface 
issues across dies. Unlike the traditional 2D ICs, 3D ICs need 
to consider inter-die connections, which are extended from 
single die to multiple dies. Therefore, 3D ICs have connection 
issues between silicon-base layers and routing layers. Two 
popular technologies, TSVs and micro bumps, are adopted 
widely. As shown in Figure 1, TSVs are penetrated the device 
layer and the substrate to connect silicon-base layers and 
routing layers while micro bumps connect signals on two 
adjacent dies. However, seamless TSVs alignment between 
dies is a considerable issue. Besides, issues of heterogeneous 
integration, design data security, or IP reuse prompt dies to be 
manufactured in advance. Therefore, designers or integrators 
cannot control placement and routing on each die [2]. To 
solve the alignment problem, as shown in Figure 2, RDL (Re-
Distribution Layer) technique is used [4]. By attaching RDLs 
on the junction between two dies, signals of TSVs and I/O 
terminals of dies can be re-distributed to appropriate positions 
on RDLs. Therefore, signals between two dies can be 
connected without the need of moving and aligning TSVs.  
 
Figure 1: A 3D IC with face-to-back and face-to-face stacking 
styles. Inter-die connections adopt the micro-bump technique. 
TSVs are penetrated the device layer and the substrate to 
connect silicon-base layers and routing layers while micro 
bumps connect signals on two adjacent dies. 
 
Figure 2: Inter-die connections adopt micro-bump and RDL 
techniques. RDLs are attached on the junction between two 
dies. Signals between two dies can be connected without the 
need of moving and aligning TSVs. 
 
This work was partially supported by Synopsys, Inc. and 
National Science Council of Taiwan under Grant No. NSC 
99-2221-E-008-106. 
Since designs with shorter wirelength may have better 
performance and consume less routing resource, the ILP 
should select micro bumps located in the bounding boxes with 
no edge crossings for nets. Finally, an ILP solver is used to 
solve the ILP and find the micro-bump assignment for nets. 
In the second stage of non-regular RDL routing, we 
construct a routing network G to formulate the routing 
between the terminals (in upper and lower dies) and the micro 
bumps as an ILP. Since we have only one layer for non-
regular RDL routing, the ILP should avoid creating any edge 
crossing. We also formulate the congestion constraint into the 
ILP. Finally, an ILP solver is used to solve the ILP and find 
the routes between the terminals (in upper and lower dies) and 
micro bumps. The routes give the global routing paths of nets. 
3.2 Micro-Bump Assignment 
The objective of the micro-bump assignment is to assign 
one micro bump for each net between two adjacent dies and 
avoid the detour paths in RDL routing. To have shorter 
wirelength, the micro-bump location of a net must be inside 
the bounding box of the net. Since an RDL has only one layer 
for routing, the locations of micro bumps must avoid creating 
any edge crossing problem. As shown in Figure 4(a), the 
micro bump for each net is located inside the bounding box of 
the net. After the routing problem is divided into two single-
layer non-regular RDL routing problems (Figures 4(b) and 
4(c)), each RDL routing problem obtains a shortest path 
within the bounding box. 
 
Figure 4: (a) Micro-bump assignment. (b) Routing example 
for the upper RDL. (c) Routing example for the lower RDL. 
An unsuitable micro-bump assignment may incur edge 
crossing problems within the bounding boxes while a suitable 
micro-bump assignment can avoid crossing problems and may 
lead shorter routing paths. As shown in Figure 5(a), the micro 
bump for each net is also located inside the bounding box of 
the net. However, after the routing problem is divided into 
two single-layer non-regular RDL routing problems (Figures 
5(b) and 5(c)), the upper RDL routing (Figure 5(b)) has an 
edge crossing problem within the bounding box. Therefore, a 
shortest routing solution without edge crossing between u1 to 
m1 and u2 to m2 does not exist definitely. 
 
Figure 5: (a) Micro-bump assignment. (b) Routing example 
for the upper RDL. No shortest routing solution exists inside 
the bounding boxes since an edge crossing is occurred. (c) 
Routing example for the lower RDL. 
The notations used in the ILP formulation are as follows: 
 xi,j: 0-1 integer variable that denotes if net ni chooses micro 
bump mj. xi,j=1 if micro bump mj is chosen by net ni; xi,j=0, 
otherwise. 
 e
u
i,j: edge that denotes the connection between ui and mj in 
the upper RDL. 
 e
l
i,j: edge that denotes the connection between bi and mj in 
the lower RDL. 
 Ui(ei,j): 0-1 integer. If terminals (in the upper and lower dies) 
of net ni connect to the micro bump mj, Ui(ei,j)=1; Ui(ei,j)=0, 
otherwise. 
 Pj(ei,j): 0-1 integer. If the micro bump mj connects to the 
terminals (in the upper and lower dies) of net ni, Pj(ei,j)=1; 
Pj(ei,j)=0, otherwise. 
 C(ei,j, ep,q): function that denotes the crossing between ei,j 
and ep,q. If ei,j crosses ep,q, C(ei,j, ep,q)=1; otherwise, C(ei,j, 
ep,q)=0. 
Therefore, the micro-bump assignment problem can be 
formulated as follows: 
max Σxi,j 
subject to 
ΣUi(ei,j) xi,j ≦ 1, 1 ≦ i ≦ |N|,   (1) 
ΣPj(ei,j) xi,j ≦ 1, 1 ≦ j ≦ |M|,   (2) 
C(e
u
i,j, e
u
p,q)(xi,j+xp,q) ≦ 1, ∀e
u
i,j, e
u
p,q,   (3) 
C(e
l
i,j, e
l
p,q)(xi,j+xp,q) ≦ 1, ∀e
b
i,j, e
b
p,q.   (4) 
Therefore, the basic non-regular RDL routing problem can 
be formulated as follows: 
min ΣL(ei,j) xi,j 
subject to 
ΣW(ei,j) Hh(ei,j) xi,j ≦ rh, ∀h,   (1) 
ΣSi (ei,j) xi,j = 1, 1 ≦ i ≦ |N|,   (2) 
ΣTi (ei,j) xi,j = 1, 1 ≦ i ≦ |N|,   (3) 
ΣDoutk(ei,j) xi,j = ΣD
in
k(ei,q) xi,q, ∀di,   (4) 
C(ei,j, ep,q)(xi,j+xp,q) ≦ 1, ∀ei,j, ep,q.   (5) 
The objective function is to minimize the total wirelength 
under the 100% routability guarantee. Constraint (1) avoids 
the congestion overflow of a horizontal interval. Note that the 
congestion avoidance gives the reason why we can handle 
variable wire widths and guarantee 100% routability after 
non-regular RDL routing. Moreover, since we want to 
guarantee 100% routability, Constraint (2) ((3)) guarantees 
that at least one edge of the source (target) terminals si (ti) of 
net ni be chosen. Besides, the flow summation of the output 
side of an ILP node must equal that of the input side. Hence, 
we have Constraint (4) for the flow conservation. Finally, 
Constraint (5) avoids the edge crossing in the upper RDL: if 
two edges cross each other, at most one can exist.  
3.3.3 ILP Reduction 
Now we present an ILP reduction technique to reduce the 
size of the network G and thus the numbers of variables and 
constraints in the ILP. We have done with the basic 
formulation in Section 3.3.2. However, this formulation may 
incur very high time complexity. As illustrated in Figure 6(b), 
we have so many edges (variables) and crossings (constraints) 
for this simple problem with only three nets. For non-regular 
RDL routing, there may be hundreds of nets and levels, which 
may incur millions of variables and constraints. It is thus 
desirable to reduce the problem size (i.e., the numbers of 
variables and constraints). 
To have shorter wirelength, in Section 3.2, the micro-bump 
location for each net is adjusted inside the bounding box of 
the net. Since the shortest path for each net must be within the 
bounding box, we do not need to consider all global paths 
which are out of the bounding box. As shown in Figure 6(b), 
we do not need to consider the rightmost ILP node in L4 and 
the second-right ILP node in L3 since these nodes are out of 
their related bounding boxes. Therefore, we rebuild the 
routing network as Figure 6(c). The reduced routing network 
still has the shortest-path solution with less ILP variables and 
constraints. Since our ILP formulation guarantees no design-
rule violations or wire crossings, all global-routing paths are 
routable after non-regular RDL routing.  
If some nets cannot be routed after the ILP reduction, we 
use maze routing to find global-routing paths for those nets. 
4. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
We implemented our micro-bump assignment and non-
regular RDL routing in the C++ language on a 2.2GHz AMD 
Opteron Linux workstation with 8 GB memory. We used the 
public lp_solve [1] to solve the ILP. The benchmark circuits, 
listed in Table 1, are real industry designs with pre-defined 
netlists including wire-width constraints. In Table 1, 
“Circuits” denotes the names of circuits, “Chip Size (um2)” 
gives the layout dimensions in um
2
, “#Dies” denotes the 
number of dies, “#Nets” denotes the number of total nets, and 
“#Inter-Nets” denotes the number of inter-die nets. 
Table 1: Benchmark circuits for inter-die routing. 
Circuits Chip Size (um
2
) #Dies #Nets #Inter-Nets 
ckt1 240x262 4 10024 663 
ckt2 531x532 5 69956 171 
ckt3 319x324 3 57012 501 
ckt4 603x605 4 130204 1160 
ckt5 587x601 4 50137 125 
Two experiments were performed to verify our algorithm. 
In the first experiment, we explored the effects of the 
reduction technique presented in Section 3.3.3 on the problem 
sizes. For this experiment, we routed the five circuits based 
on our algorithm without and with the reduction. The 
experimental results are shown in Table 2. Since the 
routabilities are all 100% for all circuits without and with the 
reduction, we do not list them in the table. Instead, we focus 
on the numbers of variables and constraints of the ILP 
without and with the reduction in the non-regular RDL 
routing stage. “#Var.” denotes the number of variables, 
“#Con.” denotes the number of constraints, “Time (sec)” 
denotes the CPU time, and “WL (um)” denotes the total 
wirelength. As shown in the table, the reduction method can 
prune about 95% of the variables and 97% of the constraints 
in the basic ILP formulation. Further, the CPU times show 
that not using the reduction technique to solve the ILP-based 
routing incurs longer CPU times and thus is not suitable for 
this problem. The experimental results demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the reduction technique. As a result, our ILP-
based routing algorithm can obtain the final routing results in 
reasonable CPU times due to the problem-size reduction.  
In the second experiment, we select the micro bump which 
is closest the center of the bounding box for each net to 
demonstrate the effectiveness of our micro-bump assignment 
algorithm. The experimental results are reported in Table 3. 
“#Var.” denotes the number of variables, “#Con.” denotes the 
number of constraints, “Time (sec)” denotes the CPU time, 
and “Rout. (%)” denotes the routing completed rate. As 
shown in the table, the routing with micro-bump assignment 
algorithm can prune 26% of the variables and 30% of the 
constraints. Further, the results show that the routing without 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/24
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫二：良率導向之類比積體電路設計自動化技術(I)
計畫主持人: 劉建男
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-008-104- 學門領域: 積體電路及系統設計
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
