行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
基於機率的核心函數技術應用於語音分類問題之研究 
The Study of Probability-based Kernel Techniques with Application to Speech 
Classification Problems 
計畫編號：NSC100-2221-E-231-020 
執行期限：100 年 08 月 01 日 至 101 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：趙怡翔   健行科技大學應用空間資訊系 
 
 
Abstract—T-norm and GMM-UBM are two 
predominant log-likelihood ratio (LLR)-based 
approaches for speaker verification in the last 
decade. In this project, we embed T-norm and 
GMM-UBM in the new approaches based on 
cross likelihood ratio (CLR), named the pairwise 
LLR measures, for speaker identification tasks. 
This pairwise LLR measures can provide some 
extent of compensation for the conventional 
speaker identification method especially when 
client speaker models are not robust. Our 
experimental results show that the proposed 
pairwise LLR methods outperform the 
conventional GMM-UBM speaker identification 
approach. 
Keywords-log-likelihood ratio; cross likelihood 
ratio; speaker identification; Gaussian mixture 
model  
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Biometric person authentication (or Biometrics) 
[1-2] refers to the identification ("who am I") or 
identity verification ("am I who I say I am") of an 
individual, using computer technology, based on 
unique physiological or behavioral characteristics. 
Human traits and mannerisms that can be used in 
biometrics include fingerprints, voice, face, retina, 
iris, handwriting, palm geometry and hand gesture. 
Compared with authentication methods based on the 
other biological features, the voice-based 
authentication, namely the speaker recognition [3], 
is very friendly to use and allow remote user 
authentication. With this technology, users can 
access applications or information via a handset 
through the telephone network or a microphone 
through the Internet. 
Speaker recognition can be classified into 
identification and verification. In speaker 
identification, the system has trained models for a 
certain amount of client speakers and the task is to 
determine which one of these models best matches 
the current speaker. In verification, the identity of 
the current speaker is somehow transmitted to the 
system beforehand and the task is to determine 
whether the current speaker is the claimed one or 
not. Speaker recognition methods can also be 
divided into text-dependent and text-independent 
methods. The former require the speaker to say 
keywords or sentences having the same text for both 
training and recognition trials while the latter do not 
rely on a specific text being spoken.  
Voice (or speech) is a temporal signal by its 
nature. For speech recognition or speaker 
recognition, speech is usually represented as a 
sequence of feature vectors characterized by some 
distributions. Over the past several years, the 
Gaussian mixture model (GMM) [3] distribution has 
become the dominant voice modeling approach in 
speaker recognition applications. Traditionally, 
GMM-based speaker identification methods employ 
the maximum likelihood (ML) criterion to decide 
the speaker identity iˆ  of an input test utterance U 
by selecting one among a group of pre-trained client 
speaker GMMs {λ1, λ2,…, λI} that best matches U. 
The ML decision rule can be formulated as 
)λ|(logmax argˆ
1
i
Ii
Upi
≤≤
= .                    (1) 
If we represent the utterance U as a sequence of 
feature vectors } ,,{ 1 Too K  and assume this sequence 
is independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) [4], 
the log-likelihood of U given the client model λi, 
can be calculated by (after normalization) [3]: 
on cross likelihood ratio (CLR) [11-13], named the 
pairwise LLR measures, for speaker identification 
tasks. 
A. Cross Likelihood Ratio (CLR) 
The cross likelihood ratio (CLR) measure is used 
to calculate the similarity (or distances) between 
two input utterances (or models). Given I client 
speakers, the ith speaker has a GMM λi adapted 
from the UBM Ω using the Ti-length feature vectors 
extracted from his/her enrollment data Ui, i = 1, 2,…, 
I. According to [12], we redesign the CLR as: 
,
)|(
)λ|(log
)|(
)λ|(log),(CLR ubm Ω+Ω= i
ii
i Up
Up
Up
UpUU              (5) 
where λ is a test model adapted from Ω using the T-
length feature vectors extracted from an input test 
utterance U. This CLR is measured in terms of two 
GMM-UBM measures which one is identical to Eq. 
(3). We illustrate this pairwise GMM-UBM for the 
CLR in Fig. 1.  
 
 
Figure 1.  Illustration of the CLR 
 
Inside the gray block covers the conventional 
GMM-UBM speaker identification method that is 
only to verify how well a test utterance U matches 
the ith client GMM λi, but the CLR method also 
introduces an extra likelihood calculation to test 
how well the enrollment data Ui of the ith client 
speaker matches the test model λ produced by a test 
utterance U. The advantage of this method is to 
provide some extent of compensation for the 
conventional speaker identification method 
especially when the client speaker model is not 
robust by estimating from only sparse enrollment 
data. We can expect that the effect of compensation 
would be more significant while the length of a test 
utterance is longer.  
It is clear that the CLR defined in Eq. (5) is 
symmetric, and the larger the score of CLR is, the 
more similar the utterances U and Ui are. Thus, we 
can reformulate the conventional decision rule in Eq. 
(1) as a CLR-based decision rule of speaker 
identification: 
),(CLRmax argˆ ubm
1
i
Ii
UUi
≤≤
= .                    (6) 
In practical implementation of Eq. (5) in Eq. (6), 
we ignore to calculate p(U | Ω) because of the same 
likelihood for all client speakers, and p(Ui | Ω) can 
be early calculated in the enrollment phase. 
Moreover, a test model λ is rapidly produced via the 
MAP adaptation, and a fast scoring approach [5] is 
applied to the likelihood ratio computation. Thus, 
the recognition time of this method cannot be much 
slower than that of the conventional GMM-UBM 
speaker identification in the testing phase. 
B. Weight CLR 
In most circumstances, the length T of a test 
utterance U and the length Ti of each enrollment 
data Ui are unequal, but the CLR measure defined in 
Eq. (5) treats the effects of U and Ui equally. To this 
end, we modify Eq. (5) to formulate another 
pairwise LLR measure, named the weight CLR, as 
follows,  
,
)|(
)λ|(log
)|(
)λ|(log),(wCLR ubm Ω+Ω= i
i
U
i
Ui Up
Upw
Up
UpwUU
i
  (7) 
where the weights, Uw  and iUw , are respectively 
defined by 
)/( iU TTTw += ,                                     (8) 
and  
)/( iiU TTTw i += .                                     (9) 
In Eq. (7), the significance of the test utterance or 
enrollment data is quantified by a weight with 
respect to its length. We further replace Eq. (5) with 
Eq. (7) in Eq. (6), hence the decision rule of speaker 
identification can be rewritten as  
),(wCLRmax argˆ ubm
1
i
Ii
UUi
≤≤
= .                     (10) 
To highlight the effect of compensation of the 
proposed pairwise LLR measures for the 
conventional GMM-UBM speaker identification 
method, we only considered the experiments in the 
sparse enrollment data cases that the client GMM 
was estimated using only 1 or 2 enrollment 
utterances from the first shot in the recording 
session 1 (noted as “Training Set”) of the 
XM2VTSDB. The performance of speaker 
identification was then evaluated on the test 
utterances from the other 7 shots among 4 recording 
sessions (noted as “Test Set”). 
B. Experimental results 
Tables I and II show the experimental results for 
the text-dependent (TD) and text-independent (TI) 
speaker identification tasks, respectively. The 
speaker identification accuracy rate is calculated by 
utterances test  totalofnumber  the
utterancesst correct te ofnumber  therateAccuracy = .    (17) 
We implemented four pairwise LLR systems: 
CLR (“CLR”), weight CLR (“wCLR”), T-norm 
CLR (“T-normCLR”), and weight T-norm CLR 
(“wT-norm CLR”), and one GMM-UBM speaker 
identification system (“GMM-UBM”) as our 
baseline. In both Tables I and II, “1utterEnroll” 
means the client GMM was built only using the first 
sentence (a) of a shot from “Training Set”; 
“2utterEnroll” means the client GMM was built 
using the first two sentences (a) and (b) of a shot 
from “Training Set”; “1utterTest” means each test 
utterance extracted from “Test Set” has the same 
context with “1utterEnroll”; “2utterTest” means 
each test utterance was concatenated from the first 
two sentences (a) and (b) of one of 7 shots in “Test 
Set”; “1diffutterTest” means each test utterance was 
extracted from the last sentence (c) of one of 7 shots 
in “Test Set”; “2diffutterTest” means each test 
utterance was concatenated from the last two 
sentences (b) and (c) of one of 7 shots in “Test Set”. 
Thus, there are a total of 658 (94×7) test utterances 
from “Test Set” of 94 client speakers for speaker 
identification evaluation.  
For TD tasks in Table I or TI tasks in Table II, it 
is obvious that the performances of our pairwise 
LLR approaches are better than those of the 
conventional GMM-UBM system in all cases. We 
also observe that the performance improvements of 
“wCLR” and “wT-norm CLR” with respect to 
“CLR” and “T-norm CLR”, respectively, are not 
significant if the lengths of an enrollment utterance 
and a test utterance are similar. 
V. CONCLUSION 
In this project, we embedded two predominant 
LLR-based speaker verification approaches, namely 
T-norm and GMM-UBM, in the proposed CLR-
based approaches, named the pairwise LLR 
measures, for text-dependent and text-independent 
speaker identification tasks. The pairwise LLR 
measures provided some degree of compensation 
for the conventional speaker identification method 
especially when client speaker models were not 
robust. Our experimental results have shown that 
the proposed pairwise LLR measures outperform 
the conventional GMM-UBM speaker identification 
approach. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was funded by the National Science 
Council, Taiwan, under Grant: NSC100-2221-E-
231-020. 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] A. Jain, L. Hong, and S. Pankanti, “Biometric 
Identification,” Communications of the ACM, 
vol.43, no.2, pp. 91-98, 2000. 
[2] Anil K. Jain, P. Flynn, Arun A. Ross, Handbook of 
Biometrics, Springer, 2008. 
[3] D. A. Reynolds, “Speaker identification and 
verification using Gaussian mixture speaker 
models,” Speech Communication, vol.17, pp. 91-
108, 1995. 
[4] V. Vapnik, Statistical Learning Theory, John Wiley 
& Sons, New York, 1998. 
[5] D. A. Reynolds, T. F. Quatieri, and R. B. Dunn, 
“Speaker verification using adapted Gaussian 
mixture models,” Digital Signal Processing, vol. 10, 
pp. 19-41, 2000. 
[6] X. Huang, A. Acero, H. W. Hon, Spoken Language 
Processing, Prentics Hall, New Jersey, 2001. 
[7] J. L. Gauvain and C. H. Lee, “Maximum a 
Posteriori Estimation for Multivariate Gaussian 
Mixture Observation of Markov Chains,” IEEE 
Trans. on Speech and Audio Processing, vol. 2, no. 
2, pp. 291-298, 1994. 
[8] Zhenyu Xiong, Thomas Fang Zheng, Zhanjiang 
Song, and Wenhu Wu, “Combining Selection Tree 
with Observation Reordering Pruning for efficient 
speaker identification using GMM-UBM,” in Proc. 
ICASSP, 2005. 
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                日期：101 年 6 月 2 日 
一、參加會議經過  
本人於 2012 年 5 月 28 日上午由桃園搭機出發，經香港轉機，於下午 4 點多抵達目的
地 – 中國重慶。入境後隨即前往會場完成報到手續及取得會議資料，當天晚上再轉往投宿
的旅館下榻休息及準備接連二天的會議活動。  
 
The 2012 9th International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery 
(FSKD'12) 國際會議已為第九屆，幾乎每屆皆與 The 2012 8th International Conference on 
Natural Computation (ICNC'12)研討會一起合辦。這次 FSKD'12 與 ICNC'12 會議含蓋的議題
非常廣，包括了:  
 
Neural Computation - Learning algorithms, Neural network architectures, Feed forward & 
recurrent networks, Neurodynamics, Statistical neural network models, Cellular neural networks, 
Support vector machines, Principal and independent component analysis, Self-organizing maps.  
Cognitive Science - Neurobiological systems, Perception, Emotion, Cognition, Selective 
attention, Vision and auditory models.  
Evolutionary Computation - Genetic and evolutionary algorithms, Ant colony optimization, 
Particle swarm optimization, Multi-objective optimization, Artificial life, Evolutionary intelligent 
agents, Artificial Immune systems. 
Other Types in Natural computation - Quantum computing, Molecular & DNA computing, 
Bayesian network, Membrane computing. 
Fuzzy Theory and Algorithms - Fuzzy theory and models, Stability of fuzzy systems, 
Mathematical foundations of fuzzy systems. 
計畫編號 NSC 100-2221-E-231-020 
計畫名稱 基於機率的核心函數技術應用於語音分類問題之研究 
出國人員姓
名 趙怡翔 
服務機構
及職稱 
清雲科技大學應用空間資
訊系 助理教授 
會議時間 2012 年 5 月 29 日至2012 年 5 月 31 日 會議地點 
中國 
重慶 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2012 年第九屆國際模糊系統與知識探索研討會 
(英文) The 2012 9th International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and 
Knowledge Discovery (FSKD'12) 
發表論文題
目 
(中文) 語者識別使用成對對數似然比例測量方法 
(英文) Speaker Identification Using Pairwise Log-Likelihood Ratio 
Measures 
 3
二、與會心得 
本人所發表的論文：Speaker Identification Using Pairwise Log-Likelihood Ratio Measures
是於 5月 30日上午 8:00至上午 10:00的 Poster Session III中發表，由於是屬於 poster session，
可與參觀者互動交談，發表過程中有多位參觀者對本論文充滿興趣，提出問題並與之討論，
過程還算順利。除了發表論文外，本人也充份利用時間參與其他與會的論文研討，獲益良
多。以下為所參與裡面，令我印象較深讓我想再更深入研究的會議論文： 
 
1. A Research Based on K-means Clustering and Artificial Fish-Swarm Algorithm for the 
Vehicle Routing, Liping Liu  
2. Robust Output Tracking Control for Nonlinear Systems Using Right Coprime Factorization, 
Xicheng Wang  
3. Searching the Critical Slip Surface of Slope Based on New Bionics Algorithm, Zhengshan 
Luo  
4. Research on Position Control of a 2-DOF Joint Actuated by one Single Motor, Shuang Liu  
5. The Application of Grey-Markov Combined Model for Port Cargo Throughput Forecasting, 
Wang Rong-hui  
6. Saving-energy Control Method of the Water -circling Pump in Winter Heating, Arturo 
Urquizo Baldárrago  
7. UPFON: Unified Process for Building Fuzzy Ontology, Makoto Yasuda  
8. Entropy based annealing approach to fuzzy c-means clustering and its fractal interpolation, 
Hongbo Fu  
9. K-SVD for Image Denoising, Duc M. Duong  
10. A Hybrid Watermarking Scheme using Contourlet Transform and Fuzzy Logic, Fernando 
Almirantearena  
11. Study of the Linguistic Variables of Heart Rate Variability Using Fuzzy Entropy, Bin Ma  
12. Speed-Adaptive Vertical Handoff Algorithm Based on Fuzzy Logic in Vehicular 
Heterogeneous Networks, Zhi-hai Sun  
13. A new feature extraction and pattern recognition of partial discharge in solid Material by 
Neural network, Lei Ding  
14. Static Error Correction of the Sensor Based on SVR, Duan Ganglong  
15. The selection methods of feature attributes based on RS-SVM, Ruopeng Wang  
16. A Smoothing Approximation for L SVM, Chunmei Xu  
17. Study of Fault Diagnosis Based on SVM for Turbine Generator Unit, Yanning Cai  
18. Uncoupled Mixture Probability Density Estimation Based on an Improved Support Vector 
Machine Model, Yong Xu  
19. Generalized Predictive Control Model Based on Support Vector Machines, Lili Huang  
20. Financial Time Series Forecasting based on Wavelet Kernel Support Vector Machine, 
Zhe-Hao liang  
21. Fast Localized Twin SVM, Yang Xu  
22. The Support Vector Machines for Predicting the Reservoir Thickness, Yuhe Liao  
                                 978-1-4673-0024-7/10/$26.00 ©2012 IEEE                                 1260
2012 9th International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery (FSKD 2012)                       
Speaker Identification Using Pairwise Log-Likelihood 
Ratio Measures 
 
Yi-Hsiang Chao 
Department of Applied Geomatics 
Ching Yun University 
Taoyuan, Taiwan 
 
 
Abstract—T-norm and GMM-UBM are two predominant log-
likelihood ratio (LLR)-based approaches for speaker verification 
in the last decade. In this paper, we embed T-norm and GMM-
UBM in the new approaches based on cross likelihood ratio 
(CLR), named the pairwise LLR measures, for speaker 
identification tasks. This pairwise LLR measures can provide 
some extent of compensation for the conventional speaker 
identification method especially when client speaker models are 
not robust. Our experimental results show that the proposed 
pairwise LLR methods outperform the conventional GMM-UBM 
speaker identification approach. 
Keywords-log-likelihood ratio; cross likelihood ratio; speaker 
identification; Gaussian mixture model  
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Biometric person authentication (or Biometrics) [1-2] refers 
to the identification ("who am I") or identity verification ("am I 
who I say I am") of an individual, using computer technology, 
based on unique physiological or behavioral characteristics. 
Human traits and mannerisms that can be used in biometrics 
include fingerprints, voice, face, retina, iris, handwriting, palm 
geometry and hand gesture. Compared with authentication 
methods based on the other biological features, the voice-based 
authentication, namely the speaker recognition [3], is very 
friendly to use and allow remote user authentication. With this 
technology, users can access applications or information via a 
handset through the telephone network or a microphone 
through the Internet. 
Speaker recognition can be classified into identification and 
verification. In speaker identification, the system has trained 
models for a certain amount of client speakers and the task is to 
determine which one of these models best matches the current 
speaker. In verification, the identity of the current speaker is 
somehow transmitted to the system beforehand and the task is 
to determine whether the current speaker is the claimed one or 
not. Speaker recognition methods can also be divided into text-
dependent and text-independent methods. The former require 
the speaker to say keywords or sentences having the same text 
for both training and recognition trials while the latter do not 
rely on a specific text being spoken.  
Voice (or speech) is a temporal signal by its nature. For 
speech recognition or speaker recognition, speech is usually 
represented as a sequence of feature vectors characterized by 
some distributions. Over the past several years, the Gaussian 
mixture model (GMM) [3] distribution has become the 
dominant voice modeling approach in speaker recognition 
applications. Traditionally, GMM-based speaker identification 
methods employ the maximum likelihood (ML) criterion to 
decide the speaker identity iˆ  of an input test utterance U by 
selecting one among a group of pre-trained client speaker 
GMMs {λ1, λ2,…, λI} that best matches U. The ML decision 
rule can be formulated as 
)λ|(logmax argˆ
1
i
Ii
Upi
≤≤
= .                    (1) 
If we represent the utterance U as a sequence of feature 
vectors } ,,{ 1 Too …  and assume this sequence is independent 
and identically distributed (i.i.d.) [4], the log-likelihood of U 
given the client model λi, can be calculated by (after 
normalization) [3]: 
∑=
=
T
t
iti opT
Up
1
)λ|(log1)λ|(log .             (2) 
According to Eq. (1), the conventional speaker 
identification method only verifies how well a test utterance U 
matches the ith client GMM λi. The performance of this 
conventional method would highly depend on whether all 
client GMMs are robust or not. In this paper, we attempt to 
embed two predominant speaker verification approaches, 
namely T-norm [9] and GMM-UBM [5], in the proposed 
approaches based on cross likelihood ratio (CLR) [11-13], 
named the pairwise log-likelihood ratio (LLR) measures, with 
application to speaker identification tasks. Compared with the 
conventional speaker identification methods, this pairwise LLR 
measures can also introduce an extra likelihood calculation to 
test how well each client speaker’s enrollment data matches a 
test model produced by an input test utterance. It can provide 
some extent of compensation for the conventional speaker 
identification method especially when the client speaker model 
is not robust.  
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II 
introduces the GMM-UBM that is the most widespread speaker 
recognition method. The proposed pairwise LLR measures are 
presented in Section III. Finally some experimental results are 
discussed in Section IV, and concluding remarks are made in 
Section V. 
                                                                                                                                          1262
recognition time of this method cannot be much slower than 
that of the conventional GMM-UBM speaker identification in 
the testing phase. 
B. Weight CLR 
In most circumstances, the length T of a test utterance U 
and the length Ti of each enrollment data Ui are unequal, but 
the CLR measure defined in Eq. (5) treats the effects of U and 
Ui equally. To this end, we modify Eq. (5) to formulate another 
pairwise LLR measure, named the weight CLR, as follows,  
,
)|(
)λ|(log
)|(
)λ|(log),(wCLRubm Ω
+
Ω
=
i
i
U
i
Ui Up
Upw
Up
UpwUU
i
   (7) 
where the weights, Uw  and iUw , are respectively defined by 
)/( iU TTTw += ,                                     (8) 
and  
)/( iiU TTTw i += .                                     (9) 
In Eq. (7), the significance of the test utterance or enrollment 
data is quantified by a weight with respect to its length. We 
further replace Eq. (5) with Eq. (7) in Eq. (6), hence the 
decision rule of speaker identification can be rewritten as  
),(wCLRmax argˆ ubm
1
i
Ii
UUi
≤≤
= .                     (10) 
It should be noted that Eq. (10) will regress to Eq. (6) if the 
lengths T and Ti are equal. 
C. T-norm CLR 
Besides GMM-UBM, T-norm is another well-known LLR-
based speaker verification approach. We also try to integrate T-
norm with CLR, and propose a new pairwise LLR measure, 
named the T-norm CLR, for speaker identification applications. 
We formulate the T-norm CLR as follows, 
)λ,()λ,(),(CLR 21tnorm iii UTnormUTnormUU += ,     (11) 
where  
iiii UpUTnorm σμ /))λ|((log)λ,(1 −= ,              (12) 
and 
σμ /))λ|((log)λ,(2 −= ii UpUTnorm .                 (13) 
In Eq. (12), iμ  and iσ  are, respectively, the mean and the 
standard deviation of I-1 log-likelihoods, log p(U | λj), where 
Iji ≤≤ ,1  but ij ≠ , from the ith client speaker’s cohort that 
consists of the other I-1 client speakers; In Eq. (13), μ and σ are, 
respectively, the mean and the standard deviation of N log-
likelihoods, log p(Ui | Ωn), where Ωn is one of the background 
GMM set {Ω1, Ω2,…, ΩN} adapted from the UBM Ω using the 
nth background speaker’s training data, n = 1, 2,…, N. Note 
that two sets of N background speakers as a cohort and I client 
speakers are mutually exclusive. We observe Eq. (11) is 
measured in terms of two T-norm measures, which can also be 
mutual complementary like the CLR method. We formulate the 
T-norm CLR-based decision rule for speaker identification as 
),(CLRmax argˆ tnorm
1
i
Ii
UUi
≤≤
= .     (14) 
In practical implementation of Eq. (11) in Eq. (14), μ and σ 
can be early calculated in the enrollment phase, and a fast 
scoring approach is also applied to all likelihood calculations. 
D. Weight T-norm CLR 
For the same reason of the weight CLR, we also develop 
the weight T-norm CLR measure: 
)λ,()λ,(),(wCLR 21tnorm iUiUi UTnormwUTnormwUU i+= ,(15) 
where Uw , iUw , Tnorm1(U, λi) and Tnorm2(Ui, λ) are defined 
in Eqs. (8), (9), (12) and (13), respectively. The weight T-norm 
CLR-based decision rule of speaker identification is expressed 
as 
),(wCLRmax argˆ tnorm
1
i
Ii
UUi
≤≤
= .      (16) 
IV. EXPERIMENTS 
A. Experimental setup 
Our speaker identification experiments were conducted on 
the speech data extracted from the extended M2VTS database 
(XM2VTSDB) [14]. We divided a total of 293 speakers 1 in 
this database into two subsets. The first subset consists of 199 
background speakers. All speech data from these 199 
background speakers were collected to train a UBM with 512 
Gaussian mixture components first. Then, we chose these 199 
background speaker as a cohort for Eq. (13), and all 199 
background speaker 512-mixture GMMs were respectively 
adapted from the UBM using each background speaker’s 
training data. The second subset consisting of 94 client 
speakers was used for speaker identification evaluation. Each 
client speaker has a 512-mixture client GMM adapted from the 
UBM using his/her enrollment data, and each client speaker’s 
cohort for Eq. (12) was chosen from the other 93 client 
speakers. 
For both subsets, each speaker has 4 recording sessions at 
approximately one-month intervals from the XM2VTSDB 
[15], and each recording session consisted of 2 shots. In a shot, 
every speaker was prompted to utter 3 sentences:  
(a)  “0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9”,  
(b)  “5 0 6 9 2 8 1 3 7 4”, and  
(c)  “Joe took father’s green shoe bench out”.  
Each utterance, sampled at 32 kHz, was converted into a 
stream of 24-dimensional feature vectors, each consisting of 12 
Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCCs) [6] and their first 
time derivatives, by a 32-ms Hamming-windowed frame with 
10-ms shifts. 
To highlight the effect of compensation of the proposed 
pairwise LLR measures for the conventional GMM-UBM 
                                                          
1 We discarded 2 speakers (ID numbers 313 and 342) because of partial 
data corruption. 
 
Yi-Hsiang Chao  
寄件者: "PC Chair" <icnc-fskd@cqupt.edu.cn>
收件者: <yschao@cyu.edu.tw>
傳送日期: 2012年4月5日 下午 03:31
主旨: ICNC'12-FSKD'12 P2487 Acceptance Notification
b頁 1 - 3(B)
2012/4/10
Dear Yi-Hsiang Chao,  
Paper ID : P2487 
Paper Title : Speaker Identification Using Pairwise Log-Likelihood Ratio Measures 
 
(All Chinese characters in this email are intended for authors from China's mainland only. 请浏
览会议网站上的中文注册和终稿上传信息。) 
Congratulations! We are pleased to inform you that your above paper has been accepted for 
presentation at the 9th International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge 
Discovery (FSKD'12) to be held from 29-31 May 2012, in Chongqing, China. After you 
complete the requirements below, your paper will appear in conference proceedings and will be 
indexed by both EI Compendex and ISTP, as well as the IEEE Xplore (ICNC'12: Conference 
Record Number 19846; IEEE Catalog Number CFP12CNC-ART; ISBN 978-1-4577-2133-5; 
FSKD'12: Conference Record Number 19847; IEEE Catalog Number CFP12FSK-ART; ISBN 
978-1-4673-0024-7). Substantially extended versions of best papers will be considered for 
publication in a ICNC'12-FSKD'12 special issue of the Computers and Electrical Engineering 
journal (SCI-indexed). Only registered papers will be considered for the SCI journal special issue 
and only the selected authors will be notified after 25 April 2012.  
In order for your paper to be included in the proceedings indexed by Ei Compendex/ISTP, it is 
important that you closely follow each and every instruction below, as the acceptance is 
conditional on your accurate and timely reactions : 
1. Revise your paper, appropriately addressing the reviewer comments (at the end of this email, 
if any) which are intended to help you improve your paper for final publication. If any review 
comments seem vague, please revise your paper according to your best understanding.  
2. Strictly follow the IEEE format requirements; incorrectly formatted papers cannot be included 
in the proceedings. Please refer to the conference website http://icnc-fskd.cqupt.edu.cn/ for 
detailed formatting instructions and templates. Some of the formatting instructions are given 
below. Closely follow the instructions at the conference website (Final Submission page) to 
convert your paper to IEEE Xplore-compliant pdf file using PDF eXpress and upload your final 
camera-ready full paper as soon as possible, but latest by 25 April 2012. Please ensure that all 
formulas, figures and embedded objects in your file are error-free. It is crucial to make sure that 
your pdf file is IEEE Xplore-compliant using PDF eXpress. Otherwise your paper may not be 
included in the IEEE Xplore or indexed in EI/ISTP. Please submit your final paper, IEEE 
Copyright Form, Registration Form, and Payment Confirmation by clicking "Upload Final 
Paper" at the conference submission system. In addition, please click "Edit Submission" at the 
conference submission system to ensure that all paper information are accurate, including the 
paper title and all author names, emails, and affiliations. This step is very important, since the 
same author and paper information will appear in the proceedings and indexing. 
3. Please download IEEE Copyright Form at the conference website, complete the form, sign it, 
and upload a scanned form to us. In the Copyright Form, you will need to enter the conference 
name. Please note that your paper above is accepted in FSKD'12, not ICNC'12. If you have more 
than one paper accepted, each paper may be accepted by a different conference. In addition, 
some papers were originally submitted to one of the two conferences (i.e., ICNC'12 and 
FSKD'12), but were later transferred to the other conference by the Program Committee for 
better matches in topics.  
4. Each paper must have 1 dedicated registration with full payment received by 25 April 2012 
for the paper to be included in the proceedings. The registration fee is US$430 or RMB 2600 for 
each paper of maximum 5 pages. These payments must also be received by 25 April 2012 for the 
paper to be included in the proceedings. 
5. Avoid using undefined acronyms, i.e., if you wish to use an acronym, you must first define it in your paper, e.g., fuzzy neural 
network (FNN).  
6. Please do a thorough spelling check, e.g., by using the spelling tool in Word.  
  
Comments from Reviewer 1 :  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
It seems we can not come to the conclusion that the proposed methods are significantly better than the baseline. The limited 
results may not support the superiority of the proposed methods.  
Why the proposed four mothods perform very similarly? 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
Comments from Reviewer 2 :  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
In this paper, the author embed T-norm and GMMUBM  
in the new approaches based on cross likelihood ratio  
(CLR), named the pairwise LLR measures, for speaker  
identification tasks. This pairwise LLR measures can provide  
some extent of compensation for the conventional speaker  
identification method especially when client speaker models are not robust. But the experimental results show that the proposed 
pairwise LLR methods outperform just as the conventional GMM-UBM speaker identification approach.  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
Comments from Reviewer 3 :  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
The latest references was published in 2008，Hope to add nearly three years of reference literature  
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
b頁 3 - 3(B)
2012/4/10
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：趙怡翔 計畫編號：100-2221-E-231-020- 
計畫名稱：基於機率的核心函數技術應用於語音分類問題之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
