1. Introduction 
With the implementation of the “Bureau of National Health Insurance, BNHI” in 
1995, the public has obtained comprehensive medical care (disease prevention, 
clinical care, hospitalization, residential care, and social rehabilitation) via insurance 
pooling. Among participating hospitals, the resources available for patients seeking 
medical service have been increased substantially. Nevertheless, for the NHI 
(National Health Care) program, the substantial volume of ambulatory care and 
contracted inpatient claims has resulted in a waste of medical resources and an 
increase in insurance fees. Furthermore, for each level of hospitals, since the startup 
of NHI program, those hospitals have had to face the pressure of competition among 
themselves. Recently, as the BNHI has been committed to establishing a suitable 
management-style for the National Health Insurance part II, healthcare quality 
remains an important issue as do controlling insurance payments. The importance of 
establishing and maintaining quality of healthcare has been a constant point of 
contention among hospitals, legislatures and the public. 
Measurements imply management and improvement. Nowadays, with ever more 
attention being paid to increasing the quality of healthcare, the objective measurement 
of clinical service and healthcare quality is indispensable. The medical quality 
indicators have been generally acknowledged as an effective tool with high credibility 
for the increase of healthcare quality via objective data. Quality indicators can be seen 
as guidelines of assessment for the outcome and management of patient’s healthcare. 
The goal is to provide standardized measurements of clinical efficiency and 
cost-effectiveness in healthcare [6]. For this reason, Taiwan Joint Commission on 
Hospital Accreditation (TJCHA) imported Quality Indicator Project (QIP) from 
Maryland Hospital Association (MHA) in U.S. as of 1999. Now named the Taiwan 
Quality Indicator Project (TQIP), it is a system devoted to achieving increases in 
healthcare quality. At present, QIP has compiled four sets of performance indicators 
for different care settings: acute care, psychiatric care, long-term care, and home care. 
Each indicator set has numerous measurements for which a facility can submit data 
and receive comparative feedback [24]. 
Using statistical profiling to assess healthcare quality has become an accepted 
methodology. Continuous and long-term measurements can reveal to monitor the 
performance of timely procedures such as early warnings for unusual tendency that 
depend on statistical process control (SPC) methods. Using statistical control methods, 
hospitals can analyze various processes and quality factors to identify potential causes 
affecting quality performance [12]. However, these methodologies focus mainly on 
surveying cause variances of only one indicator.  These indicators reflect different 
levels of the healthcare system via the measurement data. Our research intends to, by 
using the artificial intelligence applications such as Bayesian Approach, to analyze the 
relativity and uncertainty among these indicators. We are trying to discover the 
nonlinear network structure for TQIP indicators and to help hospitals survey the 
quality performance and best utilize the relationships among these indicators. 
This study hopes to use the nonlinear analytical method of the Bayesian 
approach to analyze multiple indicators simultaneously. First, we focus on the acute 
care indicators of TQIP and the level of medical centers. Second, we construct a 
learning mechanism to learn the Bayesian network by combining the domain 
knowledge and data. Third, we construct an inference mechanism to realize the causal 
relationships among these indicators. Finally, interested hospitals are provided the 
network structure as a whole for analyzing TQIP indicators. This study plans to use 
standardization. Before proceeding with improvements, one must measure clinical 
services in process and healthcare quality in outcome. The quality and clinical 
indicators, as defined by JCAHO, are quantified measurements of healthcare. Those 
indicators can be viewed as the foundation for detecting, assessing, and improving the 
quality and appropriation of healthcare [5] [7]. However, indicators alone are unable 
to measure the medical quality directly, but act more like a screen that monitor 
healthcare organizations. In order to provide a foundation for improving the 
healthcare quality, the indicators must still be evaluated [25]. 
Quality Indicator Project (QIP) led by Maryland Hospitals Association in U.S. 
has defined the healthcare quality indicators that can be used as a tool for constructing 
standards and reference points. They have also presented a quality trend and events’ 
timeline of patients’ medical care by performing statistical analysis with the indicator 
data in relation to time [1]. 
Indicator itself doesn’t provide the judgment of performance but simply presents 
the outcome of clinical manifestation [7]. Gagel [20] considered that the key to 
improve the accurate measures of healthcare quality is the quality-indicator 
information system, like Health Care Quality Improvement Program (HCQIP) 
provided to Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), which is a multi-indicator 
system for enhancing the quality, effectiveness, and efficiency of healthcare services. 
Indicators are used as screens and flags for monitoring situations that might 
require further analysis within the healthcare system [31]. However, indicators are not 
the final step in assessing quality performance. Knowledge of long-term trends should 
be developed to provide a basis for deeper investigation and understanding of 
healthcare. Such a knowledge-base might also increase the efficiency of patient 
evaluation by decreasing the time needed for surveying numerous patient histories [4]. 
2.3 Taiwan Quality Indicator Project 
Taiwan Quality Indicator Project (TQIP), enacted in August 1999, was imported 
by Taiwan Joint Commission on Hospital Accreditation (TJCHA) from Quality 
Indicator Project (QIP) directed by Maryland Hospital Association (MHA). 
At present, QIP has developed care-indicator groups including Acute Care 
Indicators, Long-term Care Indicators, Psychiatric Care Indicators and Home Care 
Indicators. Each group has different detail indicators. In 1999, TQIP introduced the 
general Acute Care Indicators that give advance priority to in-patient, emergency and 
outpatient services. In the third quarter of 2001, TQIP continued to introduce the 
Psychiatric Care Indicators and Long-term Care Indicators. These indicators, shown 
in the Tables, are currently being executed in domestic medical centers, regional 
hospitals and district hospitals. The following are care-indicator groups [8]. 
TQIP is based mainly on clinical indicators. Hospitals address selected indicators, 
which represent the hospital performance with regards to select criteria. Furthermore, 
in order to best utilize hospital resources in pursuing the desired criterion, the main 
function of TQIP is to assist hospitals with internal improvement and is not to involve 
external comparison. 
TQIP includes mainly process and outcome indicators. There are three main 
frames partitioned into TQIP indicators. The first is to monitor care status. The second 
is to monitor mortality. The third is to measure care process. 
As of 2002 [3], a total of sixty-six district-level advanced hospitals have 
participated in the TQIP program. There are fifteen medical centers, forty-three 
regional hospitals and six district hospitals, all of which are shown in Table 1. 
parents, for example, “Visit to Asia,” indicates whether the patient has recently visited 
Asia. 
The links between any two nodes indicate that there are probability relationships 
that exist between the states of those two nodes. For example, smoking increases the 
chances of getting lung cancer and bronchitis. And so on. 
Many learning techniques rely heavily on data. A Bayesian network, which is a 
knowledge representation, can allow us to learn new knowledge by combining expert 
domain knowledge and statistical data. Learning using Bayesian networks has two 
advantages [21]. One, we can easily encode expert knowledge in a Bayesian network 
and use this knowledge to increase the efficiency and accuracy of learning. Two, the 
nodes and arcs in learned Bayesian networks often correspond to recognizable 
distinctions and causal relationships. Consequently, we can more easily interpret and 
understand the knowledge encoded in the Bayesian network representation. 
The conceptual map of Bayesian networks is shown below: 
 
Figure 3 Bayesian network concept map. 
Hence, Bayesian networks, based on the Bayes’ theorem of applying 
probabilities, can be used to denote causal inferences. Moreover, the two properties of 
d-separation and Markov assumption [32] are conditions of BN. 
2.5 Construction and Learning for Bayesian Networks 
The process of constructing a BN structure will be called “Learning Bayesian 
networks”. It can be divided into two parts: structure-learning and parameter-learning. 
Structure learning looks for the relationships between variables within networks of 
unknown structure. Parameter learning looks for the node probabilities within 
networks of known structure [18]. 
Structure learning of BN can be viewed as a causal discovery, which looks for 
the network structure between uncertain variables in domain knowledge [11]. When 
one variable is dependent on another, there will be an observable relationship. When 
relationships between nodes are independent of each other, there will be no 
observable relationship. 
The structure of relationships between nodes can be constructed by domain 
personnel or by the statistic data collected from the domain knowledge. However, to 
acquire the experts’ domain knowledge is not easy, because they are too busy to get 
assistances, or they can’t illustrate the hidden relations. Furthermore, numerous 
variables will make experts hard to describe all relations exactly. Hence, to construct 
the network using data is an essential method. In addition, Heckerman et al [22] 
describe a method for learning Bayesian networks from a combination of prior 
knowledge and statistical data. In their learning algorithm, a user specifies his prior 
knowledge about the problem by constructing a prior network, and by assessing his 
confidence in this network which uses a database of cases generated from the 
network. 
( ) ( )x x x xTrs r s r sd = - -            (2) 
where xr is a column vector representing one observation. 
K-means clustering (MacQueen 1967) can best be described as a partitioning 
method. That is, K-means partitions the observations of any chosen data into K 
mutually exclusive clusters, and returns a vector of indices indicating to which of the 
k clusters it has assigned each observation. In addition, K-means uses an iterative 
algorithm that minimizes the sum of distances from each object to its cluster centroid, 
over all the clusters. 
Fuzzy C-means (FCM) [10] is a data clustering technique wherein each data 
point belongs to a cluster of some degree that is specified by a membership grade. 
This technique is an improvement on earlier clustering methods by providing a 
method to group data points that populate some multidimensional space into a 
specific number of separate clusters. 
FCM starts with an initial guess for the cluster centers, which are intended to 
mark the mean location of each cluster. However, the initial guess for these cluster 
centers will most likely be incorrect. Additionally, FCM assigns every data point a 
membership grade for each cluster. By repeatedly re-calculating the cluster centers 
and the membership grades for each data point, FCM gradually moves the cluster 
centers to the appropriate location within a data set. This repetition is based on 
minimizing an objective function that represents the distance from any given data 
point to a cluster center weighted by that data point's membership grade. 
3. METHODS AND PROCEDURES 
This study integrates the possibility of adopting Bayesian networks to analyze 
the relevance and uncertainty among TQIP indicators, and to devise a feasible 
mechanism to modify the structure and parameters of TQIP indicators. Accordingly, 
we have devised a nonlinear network of TQIP indicators to form a warning system 
which helps hospitals to control medical quality by determining if hidden relations 
exist among those indicators. 
3.1 Problem Scope and Constraints 
1. The variables in the problem field must be discrete data-types that satisfy the 
Bayesian network assumptions. 
2. The data resource must be complete for Bayesian network implementation. 
3. The data sets are independently and identically distributed within the Bayesian 
network. 
3.2 Clustering + Bayesian Network Methodology 
This study applies the clustering algorithm and Bayesian networking to the 
program of healthcare quality indicators. We then use kernel approximation [2] to 
verify similarities between the generated data behind the BN and the raw indicator 
data. 
In order to reduce the network complexity and illustrate the whole indicator 
network more completely, this study proposes a “Clustering +Bayesian network” 
methodology to implement the program of healthcare quality indicators. The first part 
of this methodology uses the concepts and properties of the Fuzzy C-means (FCM) 
method to cluster indicators; in the second part, we add a mechanism for combining 
clustering with the Bayesian network. This mechanism essentially sets a “Radius”, 
which is a maximum distance, to determine the central point of each cluster to be the 
cluster j . The values of matrixU should satisfy the following two conditions: 
[ ]0,1 1 1ij , i= , ,N, j= , ,Cµ ∈ ∀ ∀            (3) 
And the other condition is that the sum of the membership grade for each cluster is 1: 
1
1 1
C
ij
j=
= , i= , ,Nµ ∀∑                       (4) 
The objective of FCM algorithm is to minimize the cost function formulated as 
follows. 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) 2
1 1
C N
m T
ij i j i j
j= i=
J U,V = x -v x -v µ  
 
∑∑   (5) 
( ) ( )( )2Ti j i jx -v x -v is the distance between a data point and cluster center. In this study, 
we adopt the Euclidean distance. The procedure of FCM is illustrated as follows. 
Step 1: Initialize the membership matrixU with random values ranged [0, 1], where 
the conditions (4) and (5) are satisfied. 
Step 2: Calculate the cluster centers jv according to the equation: 
( )
( )
1
1
1
N
m
ij i
i=
j N
m
ij
i=
x
v = , j= , ,C
µ
∀
µ
∑
∑
                (6) 
Step 3: Calculate the new distance: 
1 1ij i jd = x -v , i= , ,N j= , ,C∀ ∀            (7) 
Step 4: Update the new matrixU : 
If ( )0ij i jd > x v≠ , calculate the new membership grade ijµ . 
2
1
1
1
ij
C m-
ij
k= ik
=
d
d
µ
 
 
 
∑
                       (8) 
Else 1ij=µ . 
Step 5: If the termination criterion has been met (e.g. maximum number of iterations), 
stop. 
Otherwise, go to step 2. 
3.4 The Connection Mechanism for Clustering + Bayesian  Network 
Here we add a mechanism for combining clustering with the Bayesian network 
in order to re-calculate the new clusters and look for the overlapping points between 
clusters after FCM implementation. The procedure for the connection mechanism is 
as follows. 
Step 1: Find the centroids of each cluster by FCM. 
Step 2: Calculate the Euclidean distance from each node to the centroid in each 
cluster in order to find out the maximum distance of the “Radius”. 
Step 3: Compute all the distances of each node to the cluster centroids. 
Step 4: Compare the “radius” in each cluster to each node in the other cluster.  
Step 5: If the radius is larger than the distance of the node in its cluster to the centroid 
in the other one, then reset the node to a new cluster. 
“Smoothing Parameter as the Bandwidth” (7) is used to adjust the shape and control 
the smooth degree of kernel function. Furthermore, this study compares the values for 
the Gap (8) of bandwidth between two datasets in order to determine whether two 
datasets come from the same structure. 
The bandwidth is formulated as follows: 
( )
( ) ( )
1
5
2
*
2 "
R K
h =
n x K R f
 
 
 
 
 ∫
                (7) 
Where ( )R K is represented as the Roughness of Gaussian kernel function; ( )22x K∫ is 
represented as the Square of the Second Moment of Gaussian kernel function; ( )"R f  
is used to approximate the estimated probability density function. In addition, the 
difference (interval) of bandwidth values is formulated as follows: 
1 2hd = h -h                             (8) 
Here we set a threshold by our case to check the similarity between the raw 
indicator-data and the generated data behind the BN model. 
4. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE RESEARCH 
In this study, the Equally-weighted discretization technique is used to divide the 
individual TQIP indicators into standardized intervals. In addition, the FCM 
clustering algorithm, which is used to cluster TQIP indicators, reduces the complexity 
of the network structure while utilizing the Bayesian network construction. 
Bayesian networks are built by using the HUGIN Tool, which is based on the PC 
algorithm. We construct two separate Bayesian networks for TQIP indicators 
depending either on the use of design relations or without the use of design relations. 
In summary, in terms of raw data, this study provides a method for hospitals to survey 
the provision of quality medical services. In addition, an integrated representation of 
Bayesian networks is provided to determine probability relationships among these 
TQIP indicators of healthcare quality settings, and also to identify any deficiency 
among indicators while surveying the performance of medical quality in hospitals. 
In addition, we may view our quest for understanding how indicator-data is 
generated or how indicators work as a quest for acquiring the ability to make 
prediction under wider range of circumstances, including things are taken apart or 
reconfigured among TQIP indicators. 
This study proposes a method to analyze the relevance and uncertainty among 
TQIP indicators. In addition, we devise a feasible mechanism to deal with the 
structure and parameters of TQIP indicators, and to form a nonlinear Bayesian 
network. However, in order to improve the TQIP network more completely, there are 
several further directions that need to be explored in future research. 
1. This study is not concerned with the function of time. As collecting long-term data 
for TQIP indicators would better illustrate the healthcare system’s quality 
performance, a solution for integrating dynamic time-series data into the Bayesian 
networks should be explored. 
2. In this study, the TQIP indicators are continuous variables. However, discrete or 
categorical data can be used efficiently in Bayesian networks. Here, we adopt the 
equally weighted state-transformation depending on the ranges of indicators. 
[16] Dash, D. and M. J. Druzdzel, “A Hybrid Anytime Algorithm for the 
Construction of Causal Models From Sparse Data,” In Proc. 15th Annual Conference 
on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence, San Francisco, CA, pp142-149, 1999. 
[17] Donabedian, A., “The Quality of Medical Care: How can it be assessed,” JAMA, 
Vol. 260, pp1743-1748, 1989. 
[18] Friedman, N. and D. Kollar, “NIPS 2001 Tutorial: Learning Bayesian networks 
from Data,” http://www.cs.huji.ac.il/~nir/Nips01-Tutorial/index.html. 
[19] Friedman, N., “The Bayesian Structural EM Algorithm,” In Proc. Fourteenth 
Conf. on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI), 1998. 
[20] Gagel, B. J., “Health Care Quality Improvement Program: a new approach - 
New Initiatives and Approaches in Health Care Quality,” Healthcare Finance Rev., 
Vol.16, pp1-13, 1995. 
[21] Heckerman, D., “A Tutorial on Learning with Bayesian Networks,” Technical 
Report MSR-TR-95-06, Microsoft Research, 1995. 
[22] Heckerman, D., D. Geiger, and D. M. Chickering, “Learning Bayesian Networks: 
The Combination of Knowledge and Statistical Data,” Machine Learning, Vol. 20, 
pp197-243, 1995a. 
[23] Heckerman, D., D. Geiger, and D. M. Chickering, “Learning Bayesian Networks: 
The Combination of Knowledge and Statistical Data,” Technical Report 
MSR-TR-94-09, 1995. 
[24] International Quality Indicator Project, www.internationalqip.com, 2002. 
[25] JCAHO, “Characteristics of Clinical Indicators,” Quality Review Bulletin, Vol. 
260(12), pp1743-1748, 1988. 
[26] JCAHO, “An Introduction to Quality Improvement in Healthcare,” 1991. In: 吳
肖琪，「評估醫院醫療品質指標」，行政院研究發展考核委員會，1999。 
[27] Jensen, F., U.B. Kjaerulff, M. Lang, and A.L. Madsen, “HUGIN- The Tool for 
Bayesian Networks and Influence Diagrams,” In 1st European Workshop on 
Probabilistic Graphical Models, pp212-221, 2002. 
[28] Lam, W. and F. Bacchus, “Learning Bayesian Belief Networks: An approach 
based on the MDL Principle,” In Proc. 2nd Pacific Rim International Conference on 
Artificial Intelligence, 1992. 
[29] Madsen, A.L., M. Lang, U.B. Kjaerulff, and F. Jensen, “The Hugin Tool for 
Learning Bayesian Networks,” In Proc. 7th European Conference on Symbolic and 
Quantitative Approaches to Reasoning with Uncertainty, Denmark,pp594-605, 2003. 
[30] Margaritis, D., “Learning Bayesian Network Model Structure from Data,” 
submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of 
Philosophy, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 2003. 
[31] Nadzam, D.M., R. Turpin, and L.S. Hanold, “Data-Driven Performance 
Improvement in Health Care: The Joint Commission’s Indicator Measurement System 
(IMSystem)”, The Joint Commission Journal on Quality Improvement, Vol. 19(11), 
pp493-500, 1993. In: 陳佩妮，「醫療品質與經營績效關係之研究－以台北醫療區
域各級醫院為例」，國立臺灣大學公共衛生研究所醫院管理組碩士論文，1996。 
[32] Neapolitan, R. E., “Learning Bayesian Networks,” Prentice Hall, 2004. 
[33] Norsys Software Corp., Netica Application Version.1.12, 
http://www.norsys.com/index.html, 1997. 
[34] Russell, S., J. Binder, D. Koller, and K. Kanazawa, “Learning in Probabilistic 
Networks with Hidden Variables,” Proc. Fourteenth International Joint Conference 
