Figure 1: The overall process of our method.
is attached to each chart and the MMA hierarchy (quater-
nary tree) is re-balanced to generate a new parameterization.
Each chart should consist of a quite large number of faces
in order to reduce distortion introduced by the parameteri-
zation. Moreover, the re-balancing is more significant with
more number of charts. Therefore this method is suitable
for meshes with large number of triangles.
3. A RE-PARAMETERIZATION FRAME-
WORK FOR SURFACE PAINTING
To optimize the sampling resolution in parametric space,
our basic idea is to increase the resolution of regions with
high signal variation while decreasing the resolution of oth-
ers. Our parameterization optimization framework for sur-
face painting comprises the following steps as shown in Fig-
ure 1:
1. Transform the closed-surface ΩT into an open-surface
Ω′T using topological surgery, construct a global initial
parameterization for the surface mesh, and generate a
base texture based on the parameterization.
2. Resample painting strokes into the base texture. Ana-
lyze the signal frequency on base texture, generate im-
portance map and geometry stretch map using graph-
ics hardware.
3. Apply a uniform grid G underlying the parameteri-
zation domain, in which each point of G is assigned
a L2s stretch value derived from importance map and
geometry stretch map, and then perform a two-stage
optimization to get an optimized uniform grid Gopt.
4. Re-parameterize Ω′T according to the optimized uni-
form grid Gopt, and resample the painting strokes ac-
cording to the new parameterization.
3.1 Initial parameterization
To parameterize surface ΩT onto a planar domain, ΩT
should be topologically equivalent to a disk. If ΩT is a
closed-surface, we perform the topological surgery proposed
in [5] to transform ΩT to an open-surface Ω
′
T that is equiv-
alent to a topological disk.
Although many parameterization techniques are adequate
to derive a global initial parameterization, the one aiming
to guarantee uniform sampling and preserve conformality
structure of the input mesh is most preferable. Here, we
use the method proposed by Yoshizawa et al. [13] due to its
preferable properties and requires solving a simple, sparse
linear system, which is usually handled in a matter of sec-
onds using Conjugate Gradient solver with good precondi-
tioning.
3.2 Stroke sampling
During painting process, we use the method proposed by
Carr et al. [2] to sample painting stroke into texture. Each
paint stroke applied in the same object pose (i.e. modelview
coordinates of the model) is rendered directly into base tex-
ture map using graphics hardware. For this task, we need a
stroke buffer for storing the painting data and a depth buffer
for the depth of current object pose.
The resampling is done by a vertex shader and a frag-
ment shader. The vertex shader transforms the world space
position into model view coordinates and then swaps each
vertex’s model view coordinates with its texture coordinates.
2. For each interior point Ni ∈ G in turn,
compute N˜i =
∑
N′∈1-ring ofNi L
2
s(N
′) ·N ′∑
N′∈1-ring ofNi L
2
s(N ′)
,
set Ni = N˜i.
3. Repeat 1 and 2 until ‖N˜i −Ni‖ < ² for every i.
(a) The face model
with a painting
stroke.
(b) Initial parame-
terization.
(c) Initial uniform
grid G.
(d) Importance
map.
(e) Stretch on sam-
ple points (64×
64).
(f) Optimized sam-
ple points Gopt.
Figure 4: The optimization result base on one iter-
ation.
Figure 4(a) illustrates the face model with a red painting
stroke and the resulting importance map is shown in Figure
4(d). A 64× 64 uniform grid G is applied to the parametric
domain, where each sample point is assigned a L2s stretch
value as shown in Figure 4(e) (we take only signal stretch
into account in this case). Figure 4(f) shows the optimized
grid Gopt, where the sample points are more sparse in the
regions with signal variation. The optimization procedure
on the grid points is illustrated in Figure 5. Figure 5(a)
depicts the grid points and the corresponding parametric
domain with signal distributed. Since the L2s stretch values
of p2, p7 and p12 are smaller than that of p0, p5 and p10, p1,
p6 and p11 are moved toward p0, p5 and p10. Similarly, p3,
p8 and p13 are moved toward p4, p9 and p14; as shown in
Figure 5(b)(c).
4
8
14
2
765 9
10 11 12 13
0 1 3
(a) Initial grid.
14
8
43
765 9
10 11 12 13
0 1 2
(b) The optimiza-
tion process.
14
4
8
13
1
6
11
0 2
75 9
10 12
3
(c) The optimized
grid.
Figure 5: Chart diagram of the optimization
process.
The optimization procedure is an iterative optimization
process, in which the local optimization optimizes a grid
point in one iteration. After the optimization, we will get
an optimized uniform grid Gopt. On Gopt, grid points will
become dense in the regions with high L2s stretch (lower sig-
nal variation), and sparse otherwise. After the optimiza-
tion process, the underlying parameterization will be re-
computed by barycentric interpolation according to the op-
timized grid points as described in next section.
3.6 Re-parameterization
After optimizing the initial uniform sample points G, we
re-parameterize the parameterization by the barycentric in-
terpolation based on the optimized uniform sample points
Gopt. For each vertex vj ∈ VI , let N j0 , N j1 , N j2 and N j3 be
the sample points of the cell that contains vj . Barycentric
coordinates w0, w1, w2 and w3 are derived such that
vj =
3∑
i=0
wi ·N ji .
The new position of vj will be
voptj =
3∑
i=0
wi ·N jiopt,
where N j0opt, N
j1
opt, N
j2
opt and N
j3
opt are the homologous points
of N j0 , N j1 , N j2 and N j3 in Gopt.
3.7 Stroke resampling over optimized para-
meterization
Finally, we resample the base texture based on the opti-
mized parameterization. The sampling process is similar to
the method mentioned in section 3.2. The only difference is
that now we have two texture coordinates, i.e. parameter
values tprev and topt for each vertex, which are derived from
initial parameterization φ and optimized parameterization
φopt, respectively. As described in section 3.2, we first swap
each vertex’s model view coordinates with its current tex-
ture coordinates topt in vertex shader, and then we resample
painting strokes to form a new base texture. The resampling
procedure here consists of two step. The first step resamples
current painting strokes stored in stroke buffer; step two re-
samples previous painting strokes stored in the previous base
texture. Therefore current model view coordinates and topt
are used to sample current stroke from stroke buffer and
tprev is used to sample previous stroke form previous base
texture.
3.8 Two-stage re-parameterization framework
Compared to Sander’s signal-specialized parameterization
[9], the proposed framework tends to be a local optimization
process. Figure 6 shows the re-parameterization result us-
ing a 256x256 uniform sample points. We can see that the
relaxation of sample points is bounded inside the cell it lies.
As shown by the red arrow in Figure 6, there should be
less sample space in these regions with lower signal gradi-
ent. However, the movement of the sample points in these
regions is not much due to the fact that the L2s stretch of
these points are almost the same. Therefore the relaxation
works well in the regions with high gradient, but may not
work well in the other regions. To solve this problem, a two
stage optimization framework is used instead of the single
stage optimization.
In the two-stage optimization, we expect that the first
stage diminishes the texture sample space in region with
(a) Single stage optimiza-
tion
(b) Two stage optimization
Figure 10: Comparison of single and two stage op-
timization
ing system on the venus model. The left columns show the
result of current surface painting systems, i.e. with fixed
underlying parameterization. The right columns show the
result of our two-stage optimization process. Our method
depicts better texturing quality than that for current surface
painting systems.
Figure 13 and Figure 14 demonstrate the painting results
of other models. Aliasing occurs in undersampling regions
and our method alleviate this problem efficiently.
The strokes of all the results shown in Figure 11 to Figure
14 are painted manually. Figure 15 shows the result where
four images is texture mapped to simulate painting strokes.
The artifact, blur, occurs due to the fact that texture is
undersampled using fixed parameterization as shown in the
left column of Figure 15. The right column shows that the
result of two-stage optimization is much more better.
Table 1 lists the computation time for initial parameter-
ization, two-stage optimization and re-parameterization oc-
curs during surface painting process. Because the optimiza-
tion procedure is done on parametric domain, the compu-
tation cost of two-stage optimization is independent on the
face number of input model. The timing required by the
two-stage optimization is reasonable for the interactive ap-
plication of surface painting systems. Figure 16 shows the
optimization time after each stroke is applied on the tricer-
atops model. Since the geometry stretch is minimized in the
first optimization process, the timing is higher than succeed-
ing optimizations.
The signal-specialized parameterization proposed by Sander
et al.[9] is thought to be the state-of-art work in mesh pa-
rameterization which is sensitive to surface signal. We com-
pare the parameterization performance between our two-
stage optimization framework and signal-specialized para-
meterization.
Figure 17(a)(b) show the result of signal-specialized para-
meterization using 2048×2048 and 128×128 texture maps,
respectively. Figure 17(c)(d) shows the result of our two-
stage optimization under two different texture map resolu-
tions. Our result is pretty good under resolution of 256x256
and still fine under resolution of 128x128.
5. CONCLUSION
We have proposed a rapidly re-parameterization frame-
work for surface painting which redistributes texture sample
space according to the surface signal variation. A two stage
Figure 11: Painting results of the venus model. Re-
sult of a fixed-parameterization (left column) and
the result of our two-stage optimized parameteriza-
tion (right column).
uniform grid optimization framework is proposed which di-
minished sample space in lower gradient regions in stage
one and magnifies sample space for high gradient regions in
stage two. In addition, this two stage optimization frame-
work is suitable for interactive use required by surface paint-
ing. For the optimization process, we derived the modified
L2 metric denoted as L2s. The L
2
s metric takes signal stretch
into account in the regions of signal variation and combines
geometry stretch in the regions without signal variation.
Some potential future work are listed as follows:
• Better stroke sampling method The stroke sam-
pling method[2] based on graphics hardware is simple
and fast for interactive use. However the result is bad
when the resampling was done under either magnifi-
cation or minification. Perhaps some filter on image
space could alleviate this problem.
• Better parameterization metric Since the same
value of geometry and signal stretch does not imply
the equal significance, our proposed L2s stretch ac-
tially works in a heuristic manner. A good study on
the weighted relationship between geometry and sig-
nal stretch may enhance the theoretical background of
our method. Furthermore, a better metric, especially
the one which is more sensitive for the anisotropical
distribution of surface signal on parametric domain is
a chance to improve the overall quality.
• Hierarchical optimization Optimization based on
adaptive sample points can be utilized to improve the
performance. In our two-stage optimization frame-
work, the sample points are uniformly distributed on
parametric domain at each step. To use the sam-
ple points more efficiently, we distribute more sample
Figure 14: Painting results of the face model. Re-
sult of a fixed-parameterization (left column) and
the result of our two-stage optimized parameteriza-
tion (right column).
2001 symposium on Interactive 3D graphics, pages
209–216, 2001.
[9] P. V. Sander, S. J. Gortler, J. Snyder, and H. Hoppe.
Signal-specialized parametrization. In Proceedings of
the 13th Eurographics Workshop on Rendering
(RENDERING TECHNIQUES-02), pages 87–98,
June 26–28 2002.
[10] P. V. Sander, J. Snyder, S. J. Gortler, and H. Hoppe.
Texture mapping progressive meshes. In SIGGRAPH
2001 Conference Proceedings, pages 409–416, 2001.
[11] P. V. Sander, Z. J. Wood, S. J. Gortler, J. Snyder,
and H. Hoppe. Multi-chart geometry images.
Proceedings of the 2003 Eurographics/ACM
SIGGRAPH symposium on Geometry processing,
pages 146–155, 2003.
[12] A. Sheffer and E. de Sturler. Parameterization of
faceted surfaces for meshing using angle based
flattening. Engineering with Computers, 17, 3:326–337,
2001.
[13] S. Yoshizawa, A. G. Belyaev, and H.-P. Seidel. A fast
and simple stretch-minimizing mesh parameterization.
In International Conference on Shape Modeling and
Applications (SMI 2004), pages 200–208, June7–11
2004.
Figure 15: Four images are texture mapped to
simulate painting strokes. Result of a fixed-
parameterization (left column) and the result of
our two-stage optimized parameterization (right col-
umn).
Figure 16: The optimization process of triceratops
model.
