行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
開發澎湖風力資源與建置低碳島可能面對的電力系統衝擊分析與經濟效益評估 
 
計畫編號：99-2221-E-346-008- 
執行期限：99年8月1日至100年7月31日 
主持人：吳元康 國立澎湖科技大學電機工程學系 
 
摘要 
   一個五年耗資台幣八十億九千萬，打造澎湖成為世界
級低碳島的計畫已經從 2011 年正式展開。此計畫代表台灣
再生能源發展的重要里程碑。此計畫主要的行動目標是初
期藉由澎湖大型陸岸風場的開發建置，達成從 2005 年至
2015 年之間二氧化碳排放量降低 50%的目標。因此本計畫
主旨即在探討澎湖低碳島建設最關鍵的陸域大型風場及其
電網併聯規劃，並進行深入的系統模擬分析，由模擬的結
果評估大型風電規劃案的可行性，供政府機構與電業相關
公司參考。此外，國外某些島嶼發展再生能源的成功經驗、
澎湖地區發展風能的環境條件、經濟效益評估、以及後寮
能源園區的前置規劃亦已在本計畫中進行研究分析。 
關鍵詞：澎湖、低碳島、再生能源、陸岸風場、後寮能源
園區 
 
Abstract 
A five-year, NT$8.09 billion project to turn Penghu into a 
world-class low-carbon island have been formally launched 
since 2011. The project represents a major milestone in the 
development of renewable energy in Taiwan. The initiative, 
centered around the installation of large-scale onshore wind 
power generators, is aimed at reducing carbon dioxide 
emissions by more than 50 percent in 2015 from 2005 levels. 
Therefore, the main target of this project is to discuss the 
planning of Penghu large-scale onshore wind farms with the 
corresponding connected network, and to perform the 
simulation analysis for the wind integrated power system. 
Based on the simulation results, the feasibility of Penghu 
onshore wind farm planning has been evaluated, which would 
provide valuable reference resources to the government and 
electric power utility. In addition, several successful 
experience on the renewable development at foreign islands, 
the environment condition on Penghu wind energy 
development, and the preplanning on the Hauo-Liaw energy 
park at Penghu have been addressed in this project.  
 
Key Words：Penghu, Low-Carbon Island, Renewable Energy, 
Onshore Wind Farm, Hauo-Liaw Energy Park 
I. Introduction 
  In response to the reduction of carbon emissions and 
the consensus of the National Energy Meeting to build 
low-carbon homes, Taiwan government is currently 
actively promoting Penghu Island to become Taiwan's 
first demonstration area for low-carbon cities and the 
target for the reduction of carbon emissions is 50% by 
2015. The low-carbon island program will be of great 
benefit to Penghu in terms of image, energy, resources, 
industries, and livelihood. Penghu will become a 
demonstration place for carbon reduction technology, 
and renewable R&D achievements in the world. The 
detailed plan for the low-carbon island covers renewable 
energy, energy conservation, green transportation, 
low-carbon buildings, and recycling of resources. Each 
topic has its own detailed implementation guidelines 
and quantitative targets. For the renewable energy part, 
it is planned to build large scale onshore wind farm with 
a capacity up to 96 MW. According to estimation by the 
Bureau of Energy, the advantages of the low-carbon 
island project in Penghu include power generation, 
energy-saving, fuel saving, water saving, waste and 
transportation benefits. It is obvious that the power 
generation from renewable energy (especially the 
large-scale onshore wind farms) is the key factor for the 
success of the promotion of the low-carbon island 
project in Penghu. 
  To accelerate the vision of promoting Penghu as a 
low-carbon city, Penghu county government has been 
actively planning the establishment of an energy 
company, and planning the Houliao region as the first 
energy demonstration park in Penghu in conjunction 
with the low-carbon city project planned by the Bureau 
of Energy. The configuration of the Houliao Energy 
Park plan includes the groundwater reservoir, sea water 
desalination area, wind power area, PV area, green 
woodland area, energy demonstration area, and 
administrative and management areas. The area of the 
whole foundation is 591 hectares, in which the wind 
power area is the main renewable energy area. 
  Based on the historical statistics, the wind energy 
resource in Penghu is the highest in Taiwan. The 
capacity factor of the wind power generation in 
Chungtuen wind farm in Penghu can reach an annual 
average of more than 40%. Penghu county government 
has studied suitable wind farm sites considering an 
assessment of wind conditions, geological conditions, 
topography, landscape, birds and ecology, population 
distribution, construction conditions and impacts, land 
acquisition, transportation, and power grid connection 
all over the Penghu area. Aside from the planning of 
wind farm sites and installed capacity, planning of the 
power grid connection is also very important for the 
development of wind power. The current power system 
in Penghu remains an independent island system which 
includes the Jianshan thermal plant, Husi and Makung 
substations, and Chungtuen and Husi wind farms. In the 
future, after the Taiwan-Penghu submarine cable 
construction is complete, Jianshan plant will be a 
backup power plant and a primary substation will be 
constructed to convert the 161kV submarine cable 
voltage down to 69kV so as to supply the electricity 
required in Penghu. However, the current power system 
planning in Penghu does not consider the possible 
development of wind farms around the island and the 
corresponding power grid connection in the future. 
Therefore, it is necessary to do detailed research on this 
issue and conduct system simulation and analysis for 
possible plans in order to gain insight into the possible 
impact on the system and to provide response 
countermeasures in advance. 
geothermal and biomass energy resources. Crete is the 
largest island in Greece, it also has the largest power 
system among all the islands; the highest voltage for the 
power transmission on the island is 150kV; the power 
system includes three major traditional fuel power plants 
(a total of 22 units with a total installed capacity of 
725MW), and 12 wind farms (with an installed capacity 
of 105MW which accounts for 12.5% of the total 
installed capacity). Since 2000, wind power accounts for 
about 10% of total generated power, while the 
maximum instantaneous wind power accounts for 39%. 
Due to the high instantaneous wind power penetration 
occasionally, the electricity frequency sometimes 
oscillates and thus results in the engagement of 
low-frequency protection relays for the wind power 
generators. The Kythnos Island in Greece is another 
island with a high penetration of wind power. About 
10.2% of the island's electricity comes from wind power 
generation, and 1% from solar power generation. Due to 
the high penetration of renewable energy, the energy 
storage system is currently actively explored on the 
island for the improvement system to reduce the impact 
on the system. According to the research and analysis, 
with the construction of a proper storage system, the 
operating cost can be reduced by 2.16%. 
  Apart from the aforementioned islands, there are still 
many other countries actively developing renewable 
energy islands. For example, the Hawaiian Islands in the 
US which is rich in renewable energy resources, 
including wind, solar, geothermal, biomass, small hydro, 
pumped energy storage, and ocean energy, etc. 
Therefore, the state government is targeted at 70% of its 
energy from renewable energy sources in the Hawaiian 
Islands by 2030. The Pellworm Island in Germany has 
been actively developing renewable energy technologies 
as early as 1997, particularly in wind power, biomass 
energy, and related energy storage technologies. 
Currently, the island has 16 wind turbines with a total 
installed capacity of 5.9MW. To reduce the risk of 
variations in wind energy, biomass energy is also 
developed on the island (burning straw and animal 
waste) to compensate for intermittent wind resources. In 
addition, the Pellworm Island built the first solar power 
generation facility as early as 1983 with an installed 
capacity of 300kW. Currently, the total area of installed 
solar panels on Pellworm Island in Germany is 8,000 m2. 
The Canary Islands in Spain are also actively 
developing renewable energies that are wind and solar 
based. The island's water supply mainly comes from 
reverse osmosis desalination. In view of the 
considerable energy consumption in seawater 
desalination, in recent years, integration of renewable 
energy and the desalination plant was developed 
actively. 
  The Gotland Island in Sweden began promoting green 
initiatives in the 1990s. They planned to use solar, wind 
and hydro energies to achieve the scenario of not using 
any fossil fuel by 2025. The Gotland Island currently 
has 157 wind turbines installed that can supply an 
average of 20-25% of the electricity demand on the 
island.  
 
III. Environmental conditions for developing wind 
energy in Penghu 
 
  There are several important factors that may decide 
whether the Penghu area can actively develop wind 
power, including: meteorology, geology, natural 
disasters (such as earthquakes, lightning, and typhoons), 
residents' acceptance, environmental impact assessment, 
and conditions for power grid connection. Penghu area 
has a meteorological environment which is categorized 
as a subtropical marine monsoon climate having hot 
summers and dry winters with an annual average 
pressure of 1013.1hPa at sea level, an average annual 
temperature of 23.2 °C, an annual average rainfall of 
954.5mm, an annual average sunshine hours of about 
2097.4 hours, and an annual average relative humidity 
of 81.2%. The annual prevailing wind direction is 
mainly north northeast and is strongest from October to 
February of the next year. Fig.1 (a) (b) show the wind 
statistical maps for Dongji Island of Penghu in 2010 and 
2011, respectively. According to the figures, the annual 
northeast monsoon winds in Penghu are fairly stable 
which are mainly in the north and north north-east 
directions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 2010 
 
(b) 2011 
 
Fig.1 Wind statistical maps for Dongji Island of Penghu 
 
  For the geological environments of Penghu Islands, 
the main outcrop rock is basalt. Sedimentary rocks, 
volcanic tuffs, or tuffaceous sandstone breccias occur in 
certain areas, so the rocks are beneficial to the 
construction of the foundations and the fixation of wind 
turbines. 
  The potential natural disasters in Penghu areas can be 
categorized as the important factors including 
earthquakes, lightning, and typhoons. According to the 
statistics by the Earthquake Forecast Center of the 
Central Weather Bureau, there were only 18 earthquakes 
 Fig. 2 Single-line schematic diagram of the Penghu 
wind power system 
 
  The single-line schematic diagram of the whole 
Penghu system for the simulations in this study is shown 
in Fig.2. The parameters for the dedicated line around 
the island were planned by considering the unit length 
specifications for a typical 69kV cable to allow the 
simulation to be close to the actual case. This system 
contains the planned wind farms around the island, the 
dedicated transmission line, and the existing feeder 
system, which include 20 11.4kV buses, 16 69kV buses, 
18 units of 11.4kV/69kV 25MVA transformer, and 2 
units of 69kV/161kV 200MVA transformers. In this 
study, the simulated system uses the doubly-fed 
induction generators as the model for the wind turbines. 
The model of the actual wind turbines and the capacity 
of each unit constructed in the future may be different 
from the simulated system, but the simulation results of 
this study can still provide proper information for the 
potential impacts on the system after the construction of 
the onshore wind farms in the future. 
 
IV. System Simulation 
 
  Based on the circuit design and the planned system 
parameters mentioned in the previous section, 
simulations of the Penghu system that consist of the 
onshore wind farms around the island were conducted in 
this study, including steady-state load flow analysis, 
fault current analysis, voltage fluctuation analysis, and 
transient stability analysis. According to the results of 
the load flow analysis, the load ratio of each line ranges 
between 12% and 71%, while the fault current is much 
lower than the rated capacity of system circuit breakers. 
The simulation results show that the increment of the 
fault current before and after the grid connection of the 
wind farms is between 1kA and 6kA. It is worth 
mentioning that the system voltage fluctuation is 
different depending on the control mode of the wind 
turbine. If the wind turbine operates in the control mode 
with the power factor of 1, the system voltage may vary 
significantly due to changes in wind speed. However, if 
the wind turbine operates in the control mode for 
voltage control, the voltage fluctuation may be relatively 
lower. In addition, because the dedicated line for the 
connection of the wind farms around the island has the 
current charging effect, if the wind turbine operates in 
the control mode with the power factor of 1 (i.e., not 
providing or absorbing reactive power), there will be 
excessive capacitive reactive power in the system, 
leading to voltage surge and, therefore, it is necessary to 
install a large number of inductors to absorb the 
excessive reactive power. However, if the wind turbine 
operates in the voltage control mode, the wind turbine 
itself can absorb the reactive power, not only the voltage 
can be stabilized to avoid over-voltage, but the inductors 
can be significantly reduced in the system to reduce 
system construction cost. Therefore, the wind turbines 
simulated in this study are operated in the voltage 
control mode. And the reactive power of the wind 
turbine in each region is adjusted based on the premise 
of setting the voltage at connection point to 1pu. For 
example, when the voltage at the connection point is too 
high, the wind turbine will automatically absorb the 
reactive power to maintain voltage stability. 
  In this study, the dynamic simulation and analysis 
were conducted to simulate whether the system can 
maintain voltage, frequency, and rotor angle stability 
when fluctuations or major failures occur in the wind 
power system, and further assess the strategy for 
improvement and response measures. The fluctuations 
in a typical system include transient wind speed change, 
short-circuit ground fault, N-1 trip-off of cables, trip-off 
of wind farms, and trip-off of transformers. This study 
subjects each of the possible fluctuations to a series of 
transient stability analyses and compares the different 
impacts on the system under the operation mode of the 
voltage control or the power factor control of the wind 
turbines. 
  Table 2 shows the representative important cases for 
the items simulated in this study: the instantaneous wind 
speed change is the frequent cause of system fluctuation, 
so it should be taken into serious consideration, 
especially the impact of the instant increase or decrease 
of wind speed on the system must be discussed in depth. 
In addition, when important circuits trips off or the wind 
farm trips off for any reason, the associate impact on the 
system must also be carefully analyzed. The three-phase 
short-circuit ground fault of the buses are also key 
points for the transient stability analysis. 
 
Table 2 Transient simulation cases in Penghu system 
Item Condition  Duration 
Variation of wind speed 
(sudden drop) 
10s variation of 
wind speed 
Variation of wind speed 
(sudden rise) 
10s 
Submarine cable N-1 line 
trip-off  8671- Bus 927 
Wind farm 
trip-off  
Siyu wind farm trips off 
Continuous
three-phase Makung (Bus 928) faults 0.2s 
吉貝
927 59518671
901
932
934,936
904
911
912
914
917
920
924
910
馬公變電所 湖西
變電所
台澎海纜
龍門風場
湖西風場
中屯風場
講美變電所
講美風場
岐頭風場
吉
貝
風
場
赤崁風場通樑風場
西
嶼
風
場
( 含合界、大池
)
小池角風場
18MW
16.7MW
18.4MW
-1.939MVAr
2.62MVAr
2.363MVAr
Reactive Power
Active Power
60Hz
60.07Hz
59.99Hz
60Hz
1.0038pu
0.93508pu
0.9964pu
Voltage
Frequency
1.0035pu
0.99742pu
1.0022pu
60.000Hz
60.029Hz
59.99Hz
60.000Hz
Voltage
Frequency
reactive powers of Jibei wind farm are as shown in Fig.6: 
The active power output of the wind farm drops 
instantly from 18MW to 16.7MW at the moment when 
the failure occurs, but it then returns to 18.4MW 
immediately, which is slightly higher than the original 
value before the failure by 0.4MW. However, the 
reactive power output of the wind farm changes from 
the original absorption of 1.9MVAr into supply of 
2.36MVAr; this is to compensate the charging current 
effect provided by the original submarine cable. Fig.7 
shows the voltage and frequency waveforms of the L 
bus in Makung for the same case. It shows that when 
one circuit line of the submarine cable trips off, the 
voltage drops to 0.93pu, but gradually recovers to 
0.99pu within 10 seconds, which is very close to the 
original value before the fault occurs. In addition, the 
frequency fluctuation ranges from 59.99 to 60.07 Hz. It 
is worth noting that in this case, the recovery time of the 
transient voltage drop is up to 10 seconds, a further 
evaluation for its impact on the system and the possible 
improvement strategies shall be conducted. In this case, 
if the wind farm is operated in the constant power factor 
control mode, the system voltage will not be able to 
recover to the initial value, but drops to about 0.97pu. 
Therefore, it is necessary to remove part of the inductors 
in the system to bring the voltage back to 1 pu, and such 
an operation may result in the complexity of system 
operation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Output of wind turbines when submarine cable 
N-1 occurs (voltage control mode) 
 
  Another important power transmission line in Penghu 
system is the 69 kV Red-White double-loop dedicated 
lines for connecting the Jianshan power plant to the 
Makung substation. Therefore, assume that if one of the 
circuit line trips off (N-1) when the wind turbine 
operates in the voltage control (V = 1pu) mode at full 
load for power generation, the active and reactive 
powers of Jibei wind farm are shown in Fig.8: it shows 
that the absorbed reactive power drops from 1.9MVAr 
down to 1.6MVAr which is to compensate the charging 
current effect provided by the tripped line. Fig.9 shows 
the voltage and frequency waveforms of the Makung L 
bus for the same case; it shows that the trip off of one of 
the red-white dedicated lines has very limited impact on 
transient voltage or frequency of the system. In this case, 
even if the wind turbine control mode is set to the power 
factor control mode, the fluctuations in the transient 
voltage and frequency are not significant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7 Voltage and frequency at Makung L bus when 
submarine cable N-1 occurs (voltage control mode) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 Output of wind turbines when Makung-Jianshan 
N-1 trip-off (voltage control mode) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 9 Voltage and frequency at Makung Lbus when 
Makung-Jianshan N-1 trip-off (voltage control mode) 
 
3. Single wind farm trips off  
 
  This project simulates the impact of the trip off of the 
wind farm in a single region on the transient stability of 
the system. Assume that the Siyu wind farm trips off and 
the wind turbine operates in the voltage control (V = 
1pu) mode at full load for power generation, the output 
response of Jibei wind farm is shown in Fig.10: It shows 
that the active power output of Jibei wind farm will 
Active Power
Reactive Power
Voltage
Frequency
17.997MW
0MW
4.1849MVAr
-1.9164MVAr
1.1190pu
0.1111pu
60.6257Hz
59.9827Hz
0.9989pu
0MVAr
 
  According to the simulation results of this study, 
when any one of the 11.4kV buses in the system has 
three-phase short-circuit ground fault, it will not result 
in the disconnection of any wind farm. However, during 
the fault, the transient under voltage and slight 
frequency fluctuation (in the range of 59.8 – 60.1Hz) 
may occur in the system. 
  Other than the simulation of the failure of 11kV bus, 
this project also explores the impact of the short-circuit 
failure of the 69 kV bus on the system. Fig.14 shows the 
transient response of the output of Jibei wind farm when 
the short-circuit ground fault of Makung L Bus (Bus 927) 
occurs. During the failure, the voltage at the connection 
point for the wind farm may instantly drop to 0.11pu. 
Although the reactive power output of the wind farm 
may increase to 4.18MVAr instantly, the excessive 
under-voltage may still cause the disconnection of the 
wind turbines. According to the simulation results in this 
study, as long as the three-phase short-circuit ground 
fault of any 69kV bus in the system occurs and if the 
wind turbine has the low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) 
capability which complies with the Technical Guidelines 
for the connection of renewable energy power 
generation system stipulated by Taipower, then all the 
wind turbines in the wind farms in Penghu may be 
subject to disconnection from the system due to 
under-voltage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.14 Output of Jibei wind turbines when Makung L 
bus faults (voltage control mode) 
 
  It is worth noting that once all the wind farms trip off 
and disconnect from the system, the system will 
generate an excessive high voltage; this is because the 
wind farms are no longer able to absorb the excessive 
capacitive reactive power in the system. Therefore, the 
system must quickly incorporate relevant compensation 
elements such as inductors or other power system 
control components. As the simulation result for this 
case shown in Fig.14, when the wind farms are 
disconnected, the system voltage is instantly increased 
to 1.119pu. However, the follow-up connection of the 
inductors within 0.1 second into the system can restore 
the voltage back to a stable value close to 1pu. 
 
V. Conclusions 
   
  The low-carbon island project in Penghu is the best 
demonstration project to show our country’s capability 
of developing renewable energy and low-carbon 
sustainable operations. The results will affect the 
determination of our country to promote green energy 
homes continuously in the future. Most of the projects 
of high proportion of renewable energy promoted by 
many countries select islands as starting points because 
the cost of electricity supply for the islands is relatively 
high and the load is quite small. Thus, the results of 
installation of renewable energy can be easily shown. 
Penghu has abundant wind resources, it may become a 
truly low-carbon island through the development of 
large-scale onshore and surrounding offshore wind 
farms. The purpose of this project is to plan the wind 
farm sites and power transmission network architecture 
around Penghu Island and to conduct simulations and 
analysis of the planned system. According to the 
simulation results, it is recommended that the operation 
mode of the wind turbines shall be the constant voltage 
control mode and a response measure must be provided 
to prevent the overvoltage of the system when most of 
the wind farms are disconnected from the system for 
some reason. The simulation results show that for 
instantaneous change in wind speed, N-1 trip off of the 
important lines, trip off of a single wind farm, or 
three-phase short-circuit ground fault of one 11.4kV bus, 
the impact on transient stability are within the standard 
specifications. Therefore, the wind power system around 
Penghu Island planned in this project shall be of 
practical value for field applications. Through the 
simulation and analysis of the actual system and 
consideration of various possible fluctuations in the 
system in this study, it is expected to provide substantial 
help and contributions to the construction of large-scale 
wind power facilities to allow Penghu to be a 
low-carbon island 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pm Working 
Tuesday, 8 am - 
12 pm Electrostatic Processes Committee Classical and Emerging Electrostatic Processes
Tuesday, 8 am - 
12 pm 
Industrial Automation and Control 
Committee Industrial Automation and Control 
Tuesday, 8 am - 
12 pm Electrostatic Processes Committee 
Special session : Non-thermal Plasma 
Processes and Environmental Protection 
Tuesday, 8 am - 
12 pm Metals Industry Committee Metal Power Systems / Primary Steel 
Tuesday, 8 am - 
12 pm 
General Applications in Electric and 
Electronics to Industry Committee Industrial Applications 
Tuesday, 8 am - 
12 pm Power System Protection Committee Power System Protection I 
Tuesday, 2 pm - 6 
pm Electrostatic Processes Committee Electro-hydro-dynamic Processes 
Tuesday, 2 pm - 6 
pm 
Industrial Automation and Control 
Committee Advanced Drives and Converters 
Tuesday, 2 pm - 6 
pm 
Power System Engineering 
Committee Power System Engineering I 
Tuesday, 2 pm - 6 
pm Mining Committee Mining Safety, Instrumentation and Efficiency
Tuesday, 2 pm - 6 
pm Energy Systems Committee Energy System I (發表論文場次) 
Wednesday, 8 am 
- 12 pm Electrostatic Processes Committee Electrostatic Measurements  
Wednesday, 8 am 
- 12 pm 
Industrial Automation and Control 
Committee Intelligent Control Based Power Electronics 
Wednesday, 8 am 
- 12 pm 
Power System Engineering 
Committee Power System Engineering II 
Wednesday, 8 am 
- 12 pm Mining Committee Mining Machines, Drives and Processes 
Wednesday, 8 am 
- 12 pm Energy Systems Committee Energy System II 
Wednesday, 2 pm 
- 6 pm Electrostatic Processes Committee Electric Discharges 
Wednesday, 2 pm 
- 6 pm 
Power System Engineering 
Committee Power System Engineering III 
 
本人今年度參加之另一個研討會為  International Conference on Power System 
Technology，在中國杭州舉行。本人與東南科技大學李清吟校長、中原大學洪穎怡院長一同
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-346-008-
計畫名稱 開發澎湖風力資源與建置低碳島可能面對的電力系統衝擊分析與經濟效益評估
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
吳元康, 國立澎湖科技大學電機系 副教授
會議時間地點
共參加二個國際會議
1. 3-7 October 2010, Houston, TX USA
2. 24-28 October 2010, Hangzhou, China
會議名稱
共參加二個國際會議
(1) IEEE IAS Annual Meeting
(2) 2010 International Conference On Power System Technology
發表論文題目
(1) Taiwan first large-scale offshore wind farm connection–a real project case
study
(2) System Impact Study for the Future Large-Scale Offshore Wind Farm around
Penghu Archipelago
(3) Actual Experience on the Short-Term Wind Power Forecasting at Penghu –
from an Island Perspective
一、參加會議經過
IEEE IAS Annual Meeting 為每年在北美舉行之全球大型國際電力研討會之一，本屆
(2010年)在美國德州休斯頓舉行，會議議程共計五天。本次會議與柯裕隆教授一同前去。此
會議的特色之一是內容兼具學術性及工業性，因此前來與會的人士包含全球電力相關之學術
界、工業界、研究單位、以及電力公司（包括GE、ABB、SIEMENS、ALSTOM、Nexans、
EdF等），除此之外，此會議的另一特色是其內容的多樣性，它包含了眾多電力科技與相關
的工業應用議題，大會中有各委員會(committee)的會議以及文章發表兩大主軸，詳細的會議
議程如表1所示: 本人於10月2日啟程，10月2日抵達美國休斯頓，並於10月3日至6日全程參
與會議議程。本人在此會議中口頭發表一篇論文。本人發表文章的場次是在星期二下午
2:00~6:00，簡報的時間大約為30分鐘。本人發表的題目為台灣大型風場(包括澎湖離岸與彰
濱離岸)的系統衝擊分析，並用不同種類型式的風機型式來模擬此風力系統。發表的場次由
Energy Systems Committee所組織的，發表後與會的專家學者共提問4個問題，包括傳輸系統的
特性、強弱電網的概念、以及風機控制等相關問題。本session有許多IEEE 會士參與，因此
認識了許多全球優秀的學者專家。
表1 2010 IEEE IAS Annual Meeting
Day and Time Committee Session Title
Monday, 2 pm - 6
pm
Electrostatic Processes Committee Nano- and Micro-Electrostatic Processes
Monday, 2 pm - 6
pm
Industrial Automation and Control
Committee
Smart Management of Renewable Energy
Systems
Monday, 2 pm - 6 Metals Industry Committee Rolling, Process Line, Measurement, Metal
搭機前去。本研討會是亞洲大型國際電力研討會。隨著再生能源的推廣與應用，近年來在配
電系統與風力發電相關的研究議題愈來愈受到國際間的重視，包括離岸風場、智慧型電網、
配電自動化、分散式電源的主題在本次研討會中占了相當高的比例，特別是智慧型電網，為
本次大會的主軸議題，在第一天的大會開場場次即主要介紹中國及世界各地智慧電網的發展
與研究。在分散式電源的研究議題中，包括燃料電池發展、網路架構與安全管理、風力機組
技術發展、儲能系統等重要議題；而在智慧型電網與微型電網的研究技術中，包含保護協調
技術、電力系統通訊、電網架構、可靠度分析、微型電網之標準與技術、分散式電源在智慧
型電網中的操作及控制等。此外，風能占比的逐年提高亦產生許多需要克服的議題：例如高
占比風能下對系統經濟與技術面的衝擊、先進的風能轉換技術、風力機組建模與控制、風能
系統對於電力品質的影響等。換言之，本次研討會所揭露目前全球電力事業發展的新重點即
為智慧型電網（及相關的研究議題，包括微型電網與配電自動化）。本人在此會議中口頭發
表一篇論文以及一篇海報張貼論文，共計兩篇論文。其中一篇是有關澎湖離岸風場的衝擊分
析，另一篇是有關風力發電短期預測文章，並以澎湖中屯風力發電場為主要研究對象。在大
會最後一天，安排了參觀杭州電動汽車充電站的規劃與實際的運作情形。在本次會議中，本
人抽空赴浙江大學參觀，並購買了約 3本 IEEE 發行的技術報告，包含所有電力相關的研究
議題。非常感激國科會提供本人差旅費，讓本人購置及聽取相當多全球電力最新的技術發展
趨勢。
二、與會心得
IEEE IAS Annual Meeting會議的參加人數雖然不如每年 IEEE PES General Meeting參加
的人數，但參加者許多都是電力各領域的專家學者，堪稱是 IEEE FELLOW會士參加比率最
高的電力專業研討會之一。感謝國科會給予經費，使得藉由參加此會議認識許多專家學者。
對於日後的研究與請教有很大的幫助。另外 International Conference on Power System
Technology研討會亦是亞洲電力大型研討會之一，討論的主題相當廣泛，參加此一會議亦相
當有意義。
三、發表論文
(1) Wu Yuan-Kang, Lee Ching-Yin, Shu, Jing-He “Taiwan first large-scale offshore wind farm
connection–a real project case study”, Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE Industry Applications
Society Annual Meeting, Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
Abstract: The west coast and islands of Taiwan have abundant wind resource, which offers a
great opportunity for large-scale offshore wind power generation. In Taiwan, the first stage of the
offshore wind farms at the Jhang-Bin and Penghu areas has been planned. In particular, the
Jhang-Bin wind farm will become the first and one of the largest wind farms in Taiwan. Therefore,
its impacts on system operation and security have to be investigated and studied in advance.
Following a general connection design discussion, this paper is consist of four major system
impact analyses: load flow, fault current, voltage variation, and transient stability. Moreover, three
types of typical wind turbines have been adopted in this paper in order to compare their
performances on the wind farm integration system. From the simulation results, some significant
conclusion and recommendations have been extracted, which would contribute to the first offshore
wind farm development in Taiwan.
(2) Yuan-Kang Wu, Ching-Yin Lee, Huang-Yu Chao, Ming-Jen Chang:“System Impact Study for
the Future Large-Scale Offshore Wind Farm around Penghu Archipelago”the 2010 International
Conference on Power System Technology (POWERCON2010), China, 24-28 Oct., 2010
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/21
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 開發澎湖風力資源與建置低碳島可能面對的電力系統衝擊分析與經濟效益評估
計畫主持人: 吳元康
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-346-008- 學門領域: 電力系統 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 開發澎湖風力資源與建置低碳島可能面對的電力系統衝擊分析與經濟效益評估
(英文) Power System Impact Analysis and Economic Benefit Evaluation resulted from the wind 
energy
成果歸屬機構
國立澎湖科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
吳元康
技術說明
(中文) 由於風機技術的進步以及裝機成本的降低，風力發電預期將對全球再生能源目標
產值產生巨大的貢獻。然而，它相對也帶來系統規劃與操作許多新的挑戰。澎湖
地區的風能資源為世界絕佳之一，台電目前已規劃興建台澎海底電纜，未來將可
大量開發澎湖在地風能資源，包括陸域風場以及大型離岸風場的建置。然而在澎
湖大規模風場建設之前，必須先調查與評估澎湖水電供需現況與未來趨勢、海水
淡化結合風力發電的效益、國內外風力機組併接準則、並進行台澎併接系統與陸
域及離岸風場各種可能的暫態衝擊分析，包括系統故障對風場的衝擊以及風場解
聯或風速瞬間變動對於系統的影響，以保障澎湖系統的供電可靠度，這些研究工
作的結論都將提供澎湖地區風力發電裝置容量設計的重要參考。除了以上探討的
重點外，本計畫亦已經評估風力發電機低電壓穿越（LVRT）特性對於澎湖陸域及
離岸風場併接系統的影響研究、規劃風場併接點之選擇，最後研究利用蓄電池儲
能設備、靜態虛功補償器(SVC)、靜態同步補償器(STATCOM)等補償元件提升與改
善澎湖風場風機之LVRT能力，除了系統技術分析外，本計畫亦研究澎湖風力發電
的經濟效益。本計畫以電力系統動態模擬程式PSS/E作為分析工具軟體，並以常
用的雙饋式感應發電機以及直驅式同步發電機為研究的風力機種型式。
(英文) Wind energy resource at Penghu is among the best in the world. The submarine cable 
connecting Taiwan and Penghu is currently in the planning phase, and onshore/offshore 
wind farms at Penghu will be developed in the future. However, in the initial planning 
phase, it is necessary to investigate and evaluate the current situation and future trend for 
the electricity and water sources at Penghu, the benefit combining wind power and sea 
water desalinization, and grid codes of wind power system all over the world. 
產業別 電力供應業
技術/產品應用範圍 風場規畫與系統分析
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
提供澎湖風能公司開發澎湖風場之重要參考
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
研究成果已經提供澎湖縣政府建設局參考 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
