I中文摘要
關鍵詞：光子晶體光纖，超寬連續光譜，脈衝放大，長週期光纖光柵
超寬連續光源涵蓋了光纖通信中的 1550 nm 和 1310 nm 波段，本身又是高重複率的超短
脈衝，因此它可以作為很好的元組件和系統測試光源。然而，由於超寬連續光源的帶寬太大，
分配在 1310 nm 波段的光功率就相對較低，在某些需要較大功率的用途上顯得不足。為了改
善超寬連續光源 1310 nm 波段光功率較低的情況，本計劃採用半導體光放大器對非線性光子
晶體光纖輸出之超短脈衝做功率放大。利用超寬連續光源的超短脈衝注入光放大器得到高功
率脈衝光源的優點是：(1)可充分利用增益介質的放大帶寬；(2)在更換適當的分波多工元件和
光放大器後，可得到不同波段和輸出功率的脈衝，具有相當大的靈活度；(3)將超寬連續光源
分光後分別注入不同增益波段的光放大器後，可以得到脈衝重複率完全相同的多波段高功率
超短脈衝光源，這在光電材料檢測和非線性光學研究上將會有很大的用途。在光子晶體光纖
元件的研究上，我們最近利用固定週期的凹槽元件對彎曲光子晶體光纖施加應力後，製作出
3 dB 頻寬大於 300 nm 的長週期光纖光柵，並且觀察到譜線中有干涉峰出現。這種超大頻寬
的光子晶體光纖長週期光柵是我們首度在實驗上觀察到的，但對於它的各項特性和應用技術
仍有待未來更進一步的研究。
11. Introduction
Photonic crystal fibers (PCFs) were fist demonstrated experimentally in 1996 [1]. They
have been widely studied owing to their potentials for realizing special optical fibers of unique
properties. Typically, PCFs are silica fibers in which two-dimensional periodic structures with a
regular array of tiny air holes are introduced in the cladding region and extended in the axial
direction of the fiber [1-2]. The shape, size, and distribution of holes can be controlled or designed,
which allows PCFs to have unusual properties that cannot be achieved with conventional fibers.
The unique properties of PCFs show potential applications in fiber optic communication and sensor
technology [3-4]. One of the useful applications of PCFs is supercontinuum (SC) generation [5-6].
Supercontinuum is a broadband coherent light source that finds numerous applications in the fields
of telecommunication, optical metrology, spectroscopy and medical imaging [7-9]. Generally,
high peak power is the key factor for spectral broadening to result in SC generation in PCFs.
Therefore, femtosecond continuous wave (CW) mode-locked lasers are often used as the pumping
sources to generate SC, in which only several mini-watts of average power can easily make the
peak power reaching a few kilowatts. Applications of supercontinuum in optical fiber
communications might includes pulse compression, multi-wavelength optical sources, all-optical
analog-to-digital conversion, signal conversion between time-division-multiplexing (TDM) format
and wavelength-division-multiplexing (WDM) format, optical fiber characterization, etc.
Among the passive fiber components, long-period fiber gratings (LPGs) have attracted much
research interest because of its versatile applications in both optical communication and sensor
technology. LPG is an optical fiber structure where the grating period is of the order of several
hundred micrometers. LPGs couple the fundamental core mode to a series of forward-propagating
cladding modes at discrete wavelength and thus generate rejection bands in the transmission
spectrum [10]. Their applications include band rejection filter, gain flattening for fiber amplifiers,
and sensor technologies, etc. LPGs can be formed in fibers with UV exposure, electric arc
discharging, or CO2 laser inscription. For LPGs fabricated with conventional fibers, the
transmission spectrum has dips at the wavelengths corresponding to resonances with various
cladding modes, and the resonance wavelength is increased by increasing the periodicity. On the
contrary, the resonance wavelength of PCF-LPG is decreased with increased periodicity. Lim et al.
fabricated LPGs in PCF by use of mechanic pressure [11]. The LPGs were formed by pressing
PCF with a periodically grooved metallic plate. The strength and wavelength of resonant peak
could be tuned by adjusting the grating period and the pressure applied on the PCF.
Previously, we have generated supercontinuum in a highly nonlinear photonic crystal fiber
[12-13]. With spectral slicing and wavelength-division multiplexing technology, we can obtain an
ultrasfast 1550 nm source, which has potential applications in fiber optical component
characterization and system testing. To improve the relatively low optical power in the 1550-nm
band, we have developed an injection amplification scheme for the ultrashort pulses with an
erbium-doped fiber amplifier (EDFA). Advantages of injection amplification for supercontinuum
pulses include: (1) fully utilization of the gain bandwidth of optical amplifier; (2) generating
3sandwiched between the corrugated device and a flat metallic plate. Using a white-light source as
input, the transmission spectrum of PCF is measured by optical spectrum analyzer. The PCF
consists of undoped fused silica, with core diameter of 12 m. The hole diameter is about 4 m,
and the spacing between adjacent holes is 8.0m. The attenuation spectrum of this fiber shows an
attenuation peak near 1400 nm. As shown in Fig. 2, LPGs are generated in the PCF when
mechanical stress is applied. Constant period LPG can be obtained if the PCF is straight.
However, LPGs become chirped (i.e., with continuously changed periodicity) when the PCF is
bended. By properly translating and/or rotating the corrugated device, either single-LPG [Fig. 2(a)]
or dual-LPG [Fig. 2(b)] can be generated in the PCF. The amount of chirping is controlled by the
curvature of PCF, as well as the angle of the corrugated device against the pressed fiber sections.
For the dual-LPG in Fig. 2(b), the two constituent gratings have opposite chirping, one with
decreasing periodicity and the other with increasing periodicity. The gratings can have different
magnitude of chirping, if the bended PCF is pressed by the rotated corrugated device as shown in
Fig. 2(b).
Bended PCF
Corrugated
Device Translation
Bended PCF
Corrugated
Device
Translation
and/or
Rotation
(a) (b)
Fig. 2 Generation of chirped LPGs in a PCF: (a) single-LPG; (b) dual-LPG with opposite
chirping.
3. Results and Discussions
The amplified supercontinuum pulse train and spectrum by using a 1310-nm band SOA
operating at lower gain are shown in Fig. 3. At lower SOA output power, the pulse train is quite
stable and the CW background is also lower. The amplified supercontinuum spectrum curve is
similar to that of SOA small signal gain curve; therefore, the amplification bandwidth of SOA is
fully utilized and the pulsewidth can be compressed to femtosecond order if suitable dispersion
controlling mechanism is used. Fig. 4 shows the amplified supercontinuum pulse train and
spectrum at higher SOA gain. At higher SOA output power, the CW background of pulse train
becomes higher and the pulse train becomes noisy, which might result from the reflection at fiber
ends. In order to reduce the CW background, APC connectors or even fiber splicing connection
should be used. Previously, we have amplified the 1550-nm band supercontinuum with an
erbium-doped fiber amplifier (EDFA). By using spectral slicing and wavelength-division
multiplexing technology, as well as properly choosing optical amplifiers, we can obtain 1310-nm
band and 1550-nm band amplified pulse sources simultaneously from a single supercontinuum light
source. Since the Ti:sapphire laser, supercontinuum source, 1310-nm band source, and 1550-nm
5broadening of spectral dip in the transmission spectrum [Fig. 2(b)]. In addition, the central
wavelength of rejection band decreases with increased chirping. We have also observed spectral
modulation peaks in the rejection band of the dual-chirped LPG, and the modulation depth increases
with the amount of chirping. These modulation peaks might be attributed to the nonlinear chirping
in the PCF-LPG and distributed Mach-Zehnder interference. For the dual-LPG in a bended PCF
of enhanced curvature, the rejection bandwidth is about 300 nm, and the wavelength spacing
between adjacent peaks is about 18 nm.
800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800
-18
-16
-14
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
In
te
ns
ity
(a
.u
.)
Wavelength (nm)
800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
In
te
ns
ity
(a
.u
.)
Wavelength (nm)
(a) (b)
Fig. 5 Transmission spectra for (a) single-LPG in a slightly bended PCF, (b) dual-LPG in a
bended PCF of enhanced curvature.
4. Conclusions
In this project, supercontinuum spectra have been obtained by coupling femtosecond
Ti:sapphire laser pulses into nonlinear photonic crystal fibers. We have studied the generation and
amplification of 1310-nm band ultrashort optical pulses by injecting supercontinuum pulses into an
SOA. At lower SOA output power, the pulse train is quite stable and the CW background is also
lower. The amplified supercontinuum spectrum curve is similar to that of SOA small signal gain
curve, and the amplification bandwidth of SOA is fully utilized. At higher SOA output power, the
CW background of pulse train becomes higher and the pulse train becomes noisy, which might
result from the reflection at fiber ends. We have generated chirped long-period fiber gratings in a
bended photonic crystal fiber by using a constant period copper wiring. As the chirping increases,
the rejection bandwidth in the transmission spectra of long-period fiber gratings also increases.
Spectral modulation peaks are observed in the rejection band of the dual-chirped LPG, and the
modulation depth increases with the amount of chirping. A chirped dual-LPG with rejection
bandwidth of 300 nm has been obtained in the bended PCF with enhanced curvature.
