I 
 
中文摘要 
由於生物技術和再生醫學的進步，組織工程正蓬勃發展。然而要如何利用工程技術來
給予適合生物體內的組織和細胞所需的支撐力、力學刺激或是外界環境因子，則需要進一
步的去了解並準確的定量細胞與細胞、細胞與胞外基質的相互作用力和以及提供合適的胞
外基質力學特性。 
近來有許多研究發現，胞外基質的力學特性會對細胞的行為多有影響。將細胞放在玻
璃基材上和放在彈性素基質薄膜上所測得的細胞彈性模數相差約三倍。而將間葉幹細胞放
置在不同軟硬程度的基材上會分化成不同類型的細胞。此外細胞的攤附面積也與細胞的硬
度息息相關，硬度越高的細胞其攤附面積亦有較大的趨勢。 
而本研究首先利用市售之第一型膠原蛋白溶液來自行合成膠原蛋白纖維以供胞外基質
環境使用，目前自製的膠原蛋白纖維其直徑及膠原纖維在原子力顯微鏡的觀測下，其所特
有之 D-period 構造均在合理且正常的範圍之內可供使用。 
此外，本研究亦利用原子力顯微鏡的細胞探針技術所得的細胞貼附力力譜分析來了解
細胞的貼附力性質是如何受胞外基質的軟硬程度調控的。隨著細胞與玻璃基質的接觸時間
增加，從接觸時間 30 秒至 300 秒之間的細胞附著力有逐漸上升且漸趨平衡的趨勢；而在基
質硬度 10930 Pa 的量測結果顯示接觸時間在 30 秒與 90 秒之間，細胞附著力呈現緩慢上升，
接觸時間 90 秒之後有顯著上升的趨勢；在基質硬度 1037 Pa 的結果顯示在接觸時間 90 秒
至 300 秒之間的細胞附著力才有明顯的上升趨勢。此外，細胞在較硬的基質上僅需 45 秒左
右便能形成穩固的鍵結(>1.4nN)，而在較軟的基質上則需時三至四分鐘，或是在五分鐘內仍
無法穩固的鍵結在基質上。 
利用此細胞探針之技術可以協助準確定量出細胞與基質間的作用力關係。未來期望能
再藉由此技術之協助來定量細胞與細胞、細胞與組織間的貼附力關係。並導入生化分析和
螢光標定技術，以期能獲得更多細胞在組織間的力學特性和所扮演的角色以及更充分的了
解其生化機轉。 
 
關鍵詞：原子力顯微鏡、細胞力學、細胞探針、聚丙烯醯胺膠體、細胞附著力 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
NSC 96－2221－E －006 －259－  
 
Decorin 在組織生物力學中的機制: 
利用原子力顯微鏡來探討其結構與功能的關係(I) 
 
Contents 
1. Introduction..…………………………………………………….……………….….…1. 
2. Purposes…………………….…………………………………….………………………1. 
3. Previous studies…..…………………………………………….………………………1. 
4. Materials and Methods……..………………………………….………………………2. 
5. Results and Discussions.……....……………………………….……………………….3. 
6. References……………………………………………………….…………………...…7. 
7. Self-scoring…………………………………………………….………………………….7. 
8. Appendixes…………….……………………………………….…………………………8. 
 
1. Introduction 
Cell behaviors are regulated by several not only chemical but also physical factors. These 
physical factors include the rigidity of extracellular matrix, morphology cues and the 
external stimuli types.[1, 2] Basically, the external physical factors were translated into cell 
(the outside-in signals) by the conformational change then up-regulate or down-regulate 
those effectors to change the behavior and fate of cells. It is important to investigate the 
effect of the rigidity of substrate and the major component of extracellular matrix (ECM) 
on the cell adhesion.  
 
2. Purposes 
The purposes of this study were to observe fibril formation of the main ECM collagen by 
AFM and further study how different rigidity of extracellular substrate affected cell in 
initial detaching force.  
 
3. Previous studies 
z In 2003, F. Li et al., cell probes with molecular interaction blocker agents were used 
to investigate the interaction force between K562 cell with laminated fibronectin and 
the influenced by different tip landing speed. [3] 
z In 2003, E. P. Wojcikiewicz et al., the affects of the adhesion force agents such as 
phorbol myristate acetate and ICAM-1 on 3A9 cell were discussed by cell-probe. [4] 
3 
 
water and ready for cell catching.  
4.2.5 Calibration for cantilever tip 
The mechanical property of testing material depends on the accuracy of spring constant 
and deflection of cantilever tip. Due to the nominal thickness of the cantilever is usually 
not accurate, it is necessary to use other approach to measure its spring constant. Thermal 
noise method, the resonant frequency correlated to its spring constant, was used to 
measure the spring constant of individual cantilever before each test. 
4.2.6 Cell probe preparation 
After 4 days of culture of 3T3, the cells were removed from flask by trypsin then dropped 
on culture dish. Used the optical microscopy to observe the cell morphology and locate a 
cell with proper shape. After moving the tip above the cell, the functionalized tip was 
pressed at the rate of 5 μm/s on the cell at 500 pN for 5 seconds then retracted. In most 
case, the cell was attached on the bottom of the cantilever. The cell probe was retracted to 
100 μm above the surface and ready for adhesion test.  
4.2.7 Measuring cell adhesion force 
Choose one of the three substrates which are two PAA gels with modulus were 1037 and 
10930 respectively and hard glass for surface. Four contact times 30, 60, 90 and 300 
seconds were studied. The cell probe approach on the substrate at 5 μm/s and the contact 
force was set at 500 pN. At the same cell, four contact times were conducted at randomly 
order till the cell lost its activity. After each test, the cell rested for 2 minutes to recover. 
The approach and retract force curves were collected and analyzed. 
 
5. Results and Discussions 
Ttype I collagen incubated in vitro was shown in Figure 1., which had regular D-period 
pattern and rational diameters. (Table 1.) The D-period measured from AFM images was 
64.4±3.3 nm, which was consisted with rational range 62~67nm. 
The cell detaching force was increased with the contact time in all groups. On the control 
group (commercial glass dish) the cell detaching force increased slowly and displayed 
non-linearly in 30 to 90 seconds and then increased rapidly after 90 seconds. Finally, the 
detaching force was reaching an equilibrium plateau, which was consistent with previous 
study. (Figure 2(a), 2(b).) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Display the cell detaching force with respect to contact time on the 10930Pa gel. The differences 
were only observed at 300 seconds from the other three contact times. But, there were no significant 
differences among 30, 60 and 90 seconds. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Display the cell detaching force with respect to contact time on the 1037Pa gel. The differences 
were only observed at 300 seconds from the other three contact times. But, there were no significant 
differences among 30, 60 and 90 seconds. 
 
about 1400 pN. The bonding between cell and substrate protein was thought as covalent 
bond.[6] Thus, using this force value as a criteria, for the control group (glass dish) it 
required 48 seconds; for the 10930Pa gel, it took around 3 to 4 minutes to achieve stable 
bonding; and for the 1037Pa gel, cell did not reach stable bonding before 5 minutes. 
(Figure 6.) The reasons for fibroblasts have large cell detaching and stable bonding 
situation on the harder substrate rather than softer one which might result in the nature of 
fibroblasts. Previous study had demonstrated that fibroblasts were stiffness-dependence 
cell.[7] Actin filaments of fibroblast were vanished while it was adhering on 180Pa 
polyacrylamide gel alone. Because of cell-probe accessed single cell detaching force from 
substrate. Therefore, fibroblast had less actin filaments participated in adhering to soft 
5 
 
7 
 
 
6. References 
 
1 Docheva, D., Padula, D., Popov, C., Mutschler, W., Clausen-Schaumann, H. and 
Schieker, M. (2008) Researching into the cellular shape, volume and elasticity of 
mesenchymal stem cells, osteoblasts and osteosarcoma cells by atomic force microscopy. 
Journal of cellular and molecular medicine. 12, 537-552 
2 Discher, D. E., Janmey, P. and Wang, Y. L. (2005) Tissue cells feel and respond to the 
stiffness of their substrate. Science (New York, N.Y. 310, 1139-1143 
3 Le Grimellec, C., Lesniewska, E., Cachia, C., Schreiber, J. P., de Fornel, F. and 
Goudonnet, J. P. (1994) Imaging of the membrane surface of MDCK cells by atomic force 
microscopy. Biophysical journal. 67, 36-41 
4 Wojcikiewicz, E. P., Zhang, X., Chen, A. and Moy, V. T. (2003) Contributions of 
molecular binding events and cellular compliance to the modulation of leukocyte adhesion. 
Journal of cell science. 116, 2531-2539 
5 Taubenberger, A., Cisneros, D. A., Friedrichs, J., Puech, P. H., Muller, D. J. and Franz, 
C. M. (2007) Revealing early steps of alpha2beta1 integrin-mediated adhesion to collagen 
type I by using single-cell force spectroscopy. Molecular biology of the cell. 18, 1634-1644 
6 Grandbois, M., Beyer, M., Rief, M., Clausen-Schaumann, H. and Gaub, H. E. (1999) 
How strong is a covalent bond? Science (New York, N.Y. 283, 1727-1730 
7 Yeung, T., Georges, P. C., Flanagan, L. A., Marg, B., Ortiz, M., Funaki, M., Zahir, N., 
Ming, W., Weaver, V. and Janmey, P. A. (2005) Effects of substrate stiffness on cell 
morphology, cytoskeletal structure, and adhesion. Cell motility and the cytoskeleton. 60, 
24-34 
 
7. Self-score 
The results in measuring of cell detaching force on substrates with different rigidity by 
atomic force microscopy are acceptable. Not only because of submitted by ICBME, 
ISNBME-7, and ISBE, but also accomplished a graduation paper toward master’s degree. 
Although, original goals have not sufficient fulfilled for the single binding strength 
between decorin and type I collagen. However, the cell-probe technique has been 
established which allows to unveil more cell attaching mechanisms in the future. 
Furthermore, the differences between each grade of malignant cell also been observed 
through this program.  
 
 
 
 
1 
 
Attachment 1 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
計畫類別：█ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E －006 －259－ 
執行期間： 96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 10 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：葉明龍 
共同主持人：蘇芳慶 
計畫參與人員：  
 
報告名稱：參加第十三屆生物醫學工程研討會 
出國期間：2008/12/2~2008/12/6 
中文摘要： 
每兩年一度在新加坡舉辦的國際生物醫學工程研討會，迄今已然邁入
第十三屆。上一屆大會有來自三十多個國家，超過八百位的與會人
員，此次大會的統計雖尚未揭曉，但相信以參加人潮之踴躍，應是能
超越上屆之成績。除了來自各國的研究學者齊聚一堂之外，大會亦另
外邀請了多位知名學者來介紹他們所採用的嶄新研究方式和傑出的
研究成果。 
本次大會共分生物機電儀器、復健工程與輔具科技、藥物釋放系統、
生物系統模擬、奈米生物技術、細胞與分子工程、生物訊號處理、遠
距醫護和健康管理、生物材料、生物感測器、生物晶片及生物微機電
製程、生物機器人和人工器官、臨床工程既電腦輔助手術器械、電腦
3 
 
The whole conference was divided into several sessions such as:  
Biomedical instrumentation, Rehabilitation engineering and 
assistive technology, Controlled drug delivery, Physiological 
system modeling, Biomedical instrumentation, 
Nanobiotechnology, Cellular & molecular engineering, 
Biosignal processing, Telemedicine & healthcare, Biomaterials, 
Biosensors, biochips & bioMEMS, Medical robotics & artificial 
organs, Clinical engineering/computer assisted surgery, 
Biomechanics, Computational bioengineering, Tissue 
engineering & regenerative medicine, Bioimaging, 
Cardiovascular bioengineering, Bioinformatics & digital 
medicine, Orthopaedics, prosthetics & orthotics, etc. 
Otherwise, posters were displayed in every noontime during 
entire conference period. It was quite helpful to discuss with 
the poster author in the experimental results and materials and 
methods. 
 
 
 
5 
 
一、 會議目的 
此會議始於 1983 年，最初是由國立新加坡大學(YLL school of 
Medicine and Faculty of Engineering of the National 
University of Singapore)和新加坡生醫工程協會(Biomedical 
Engineering Society)主辦。今年已然邁入第十三屆。在新加坡
政府的大力支持下每年的參與人數均相當踴躍。時至上屆(2006)
已有來自三十多個國家，超過八百位的與會人員，此次大會的統
計雖尚未揭曉，但相信以參加人潮之踴躍，應是能超越上屆之成
績。會議主旨在推廣並協助所有生物醫學工程領域的研究學者能
齊聚一堂，相互分享研究成果和討論未來方向。 
二、 會議過程 
筆者和指導教授應中華民國生物醫學工程學會的組織，參與了由
學會幫助辦理的 ICBME 南部團體。此團於 2008/12/2 上午九時由
高雄小港機場出發，歷經四小時餘的飛行抵達新加坡彰宜
(Changi)機場。翌日，此會議於早上八時開始接受報到，八時五
十分開始安排三位學者演講，之後便是分組研討會和海報展覽。
整個大會規劃一天有一位來賓演講和三個研討會，來賓演講約莫
半小時，而研討會每個歷時一小時半，會先由座長介紹，並視大
會安排在該研討會是否有受邀學者之演講。每日中午十一時半
7 
 
Medical Research 
3. 美國 University of California, San Diego 的錢煦院士演
講 Molecular and Mechanical Bases of Endothelial 
4. 日本 Chiba University 的 Toshiyo Tamura 教授演講
Gerontechnology to Improve the Quality of Life 
5. 日本 Tohoku University 的 Takuji Ishikawa 教授演講
Biomechanics of a Suspension of Micro-Organisms 
還有十八位演講者受邀在各分組研討會中擔任引言人並介紹其
相關研究。而二十一世紀，生醫工程正蓬勃發展，從事生物醫學
工程的學者越來越多，因為生物醫學工程和人類健康息息相關，
此會議學者間的對話。會議論文應用對象包括了人體、動物等生
物體，研究範圍從軟、硬組織、細胞、分子到基因層級及所有生
物材料。在與實驗室相關之研究上，利用生物力學來研究正常細
胞和病變細胞的研究正在發展，在筆者口頭報告的 session 正好與
新加坡大學所作的乳癌細胞和鐮刀形血球細胞的生物力學研究
在同一組，正好藉此機會得知在論文上未得見的細節處，此外在
海報和組織力學的研討會中，與本實驗室息息相關的組織工程研
究也十分蓬勃，如何利用不同工程製造技術、不同生物可裂解性
材料來製造適合不同細胞的存活性，並符合生物體結構形狀和力
  
Measurement of Cell Detaching force on Substrates with Different Rigidity by 
Atomic Force Microscopy 
D.K. Chang1, Y.W. Chiou 1 M.J. Tang2 and M.L. Yeh1 
1 Institute of Biomedical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan  
2 Department of Physiology, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan 
Abstract— Cell adhesion plays an important role in cell 
morphology, motility, and differentiation, and cancer metasta-
sis. The rigidity of the substrates is one of the factors that can 
affect cell behaviors. How the rigidity of substrates influence 
the initial attaching strength of cell is not well investigated yet. 
Cell probe attaching cell on the AFM cantilever tip is a new 
approach to study cell mechanics. 
The purpose of this study is to investigate the relation 
between the rigidity of substrate and cell detaching force by 
cell probe. Fibroblast cell was used to quantify cell detaching 
force. All the surfaces of substrates were coated with type I 
collagen. The contact times were set at 30, 60, 90, and 300 
seconds with contact compression at 500 pN. The substrates 
used were 1037 Pa, and 10930 Pa poly acrylamide (PAA) and 
glass.  
Under the same contact time, the detaching force rose 
gradually with increasing substrate rigidity. They were 
482.11±194.34, 1820.11±949.29, and 3373.45 ±1867.02 pN re-
spectively for 1037 Pa, and 10930 Pa PAA and glass for 300 
seconds.  
Our results showed cell adhesion could be influenced by 
substrate rigidity. This cell probe technique can be further 
used for parameter studies on cell substrate interaction in the 
future. 
 
Keywords— AFM, cell probe, cell detaching force, substrate 
rigidity 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Cells interact with neighboring cells and extracellular 
matrix through adhesion molecules. The adhesion behavior 
is modulated by the intracellular physiology and affected by 
extracellular environment. It has decisive effect on cell 
physiology such as, morphology, migration, motility and 
differentiation and cancer cell metastasis [1-2].The ability 
for cell to attach represents the normal physiology behavior 
for cells. 
Currently, several approaches have been developed to 
study the cell adhesion force, like micropipette [3], optical 
tweezers [4], cell detacher [5] and atomic force microscopy 
(AFM) [6]. Cell probe is a new approach by AFM [7]. It 
attached the cell on the end of usually tipless cantilever. 
Once the cell probe established, it can be used to evaluate 
the interaction between the attached cell and single cell or 
cell layer on the surface. It is known the stiffness of sub-
strate can affect cell behavior [8]. The reaction and sense of 
cell to the stiffness also vary with cell types. The purpose of 
this study is to use the cell probe approach to measure how 
stiffness of substrate affecting the initial adhesion forces. 
II. MATERIALS AND METHODS 
A. Cell culture 
Rat fibroblast (NIH-3T3) cell line was used in this 
study. Culture medium was 10% Fetal Bovine Serum 
(FBS)(Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis) with 1% Penicillin(Sigma-
Aldrich, St. Louis) and Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Me-
dium (DMEM). (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis) 
B. Substrate preparation 
PAA (Polyacrylamide) (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis) gel 
was used to make soft substrates. By adjusting the ratio 
between Acrylamide (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis) and Bis-
acrylamide (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis), two stiffness of 
substrates (modulus 1037 and 10930 Pa) were made. Stiff 
glass surface (70GPa) was used as control. All the sub-
strates were then coating with type I collagen solution 
(Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis). Briefly, dishes were added with 
Sulfo-SANPAH (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis) as cross-linking 
agent then irradiated by UV light(120,000 microjoules, 302 
nm wavelength, UVP, CL-1000) for 10 minutes. PBS was 
then used to remove unbonding cross-linking agents. After-
ward, 200 μg/ml type I collagen solution was spread on dish 
surface and then placed on the shaker inside 4 degree Cel-
sius refrigerator for 24 hours for well-mixing the type I 
collagen solution. 
C. AFM system 
The AFM system used in this study is JPK NanoWizard® 
II on top of inverse light microscope (Zeiss Axio Observer). 
In order to fully separate the tether of pulling cell during 
  
 
Fig. 2 Temporal change of adhesion force for 3 substrates  
&significant different between 1037 Pa and 10930 Pa  
*significant difference between 1037 Pa and glass 
#significant difference between 10930 Pa and glass 
Cells interact with extracellular matrix through integrin. 
The bonding was believed through covalent bond [9]. Sin-
gle covalent bond strength was about 1400 pN [10]. We use 
this strength to define the starting time for stable bonding 
between the cell and surface. Glass can start to have stable 
bonding in 48 seconds. The time to have stable bonding for 
10930 Pa substrate is about 225 seconds. However, it never 
reached stable bonding for 1037 Pa substrate before 300 
seconds. 
 
B. Adhesion force vs. stiffness 
The substrates at three different rigidities were used in 
this study. The adhesion force for stiff glass was significant 
larger than the other two softer substrates at all contact 
times (Fig. 3). The adhesion forces between 1037 Pa and 
10930 Pa were also significant different at all four contact 
times. The stiffness of substrate could have dramatically 
effect on cell’s initial bonding strength. When cell was on 
different substrate, the stiffness of substrate can be sensed 
by the cell. Our results clearly show the early adhesion 
force increases at different rate for different substrates. This 
early adhesion force is comparable to late stable force, but 
the differences among different substrates are more signifi-
cant. 
 
 
Fig. 3 The adhesion forces for three substrates at four different contact time.  
*significant different from glass 
#significant different between 1037 Pa and 10930 Pa 
IV. CONCLUSIONS  
This study has successfully built the cell probe technolo-
gy to measure the cell’s early adhesion force. This method 
can be used to study the physiological phenomenon between 
the substrate and the cell and measure their adhesion forces. 
The results find the initial adhesion force was influenced by 
contact time and substrate stiffness. The adhesion force 
increases with the stiffness of the substrate during the first 
300 seconds. The adhesion force increases with time at 
different rate for different substrates. Nevertheless, the time 
to reach stable adhesion (1400 pN) also depends on the 
substrates. This information can be important guide for 
understanding the mechanism how substrate affecting the 
cell adhesion and following biochemical signal pathway. 
Combining the confocal microscopy, fluoresce technology 
and biochemical assay, this cell probe technology can be 
used to further study the detail of cell surface interaction. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors would like to appreciate the equipment and 
financial supports from National Science Council of Taiwan 
(NSC 96-2221-E-006 -259), Nano project from (NSC 97-
2120-M-006-003) and NCKU college of Engineering.  
REFERENCES  
1. Folkman J and Moscona A (1978) Role of cell shape in growth con-
trol. Nature, 273:345-349 
2. Stossel TP (1993) On the crawling of animal cells. Science, 
260:1086-1094 
3. Discher DE, Mohandas N, and Evans EA (1994) Molecular maps of 
red cell deformation: hidden elasticity and in situ connectivity. 
Science, 266:1032-1035 
