計畫編號: NSC95-2221-E-002-369 
計畫名稱: 考慮邊際電場效應之次九十奈米互補金氧半超大型積電精簡元件模型(2/3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
計畫編號: NSC95-2221-E-002-369 
計畫名稱: 考慮邊際電場效應之次九十奈米互補金氧半超大型積電精簡元件模型(2/3) 
 
此次補助出席了四月下旬於溫哥華舉行的加拿大電機電子會議(CCECE) 
發表論文: Triple-Threshold Static Power Minimization Technique in 
High-Level Synthesis for Designing High-Speed Low-Power SOC 
Applications Using 90nm MTCMOS Technology. 將出席六月於北京舉行
的 IEDST 發表 invited paper: Modeling the Gate Tunneling Current 
Effects of Sub-100nm NMOS Devices with an Ultra-thin (1nm) Gate 
Oxide＂此次演講係清華大學及 IEEE Electron Devices Society 共同舉
辦  此 演 講 亦 是 IEEE Electron Devices Society 的 傑 出 演 獎 
(distinguished lecture). 兩次出席國際會議 收獲很多 感謝國科會支
持. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig. 2 Cross section of the NMOS device 
with an ultrathn gate oxide under study.                                                             
  
JG(y) is the local gate tunnel current at 
location y in the channel: )(0
*
)( yVBGG eJyJ
−= . 
When biased in the saturation, the lateral 
channel could be divided into three 
segments as shown in Fig. 2: Segment a- 
before the velocity saturation with its 
channel potential between 0V and Vdsat 
(0<V(y)<Vdsat), Segment b- after velocity 
saturation and zero vertical electric field in 
the gate oxide (Vdsat<V(y)<VG-Vfb-2φb),  
and Segment c-  VG-Vfb-2φb <V(y)<VD. In 
Segment a, the triode region formula [4] 
could be used to find its total gate current 
IGa with L replaced by L-ΔL and VD by Vdsat, 
where ΔL is the length of the post-
saturation region. In Segments b and c- 
post-saturation region, the local gate 
tunnelling current density is JG(y)=JG0 exp(-
2B*( VG-Vfb-2φb- 0.5V)). The total gate 
current IGb/IGc in Segment b/c has been 
found- Eq.(10)/(13). Thus, the total gate 
current is IG=IGa+IGb+IGc. Source current is 
IS=IT+ISL Eq.(5) and drain current is ID=IT-
IDL Eq.(6), where ISL=ISLa+ISLb+ISLc and 
IDL=IDLa+IDLb+IDLc with components as 
shown in Fig. 3. This completes the 
compact model of the gate tunnelling 
current for the NMOS device considering 
the distributed effect. 
 
Fig. 3. Key equations of the gate tunneling 
current model. 
3. Model Evaluation 
The effectiveness of this compact 
model of the gate tunneling current 
considering the distributed effect for the 
NMOS device with an ultra-thin gate oxide 
has been evaluated with the experimentally 
measured data of the test device with the 
gate oxide 1nm. Fig. 4 shows total gate 
current IG, the partitioned gate currents at 
the source side ISL and at the drain side IDL 
versus the drain voltage of the NMOS 
device with the 1nm gate oxide and with 
the channel width of (a) 10um, (b) 0.24um 
and (c) 100nm, based on the compact 
model with and without considering the 
distributed gate tunneling current and the 
experimentally measured data. As shown 
in the figure, as verified by the 
experimentally measured data, the 
compact gate tunneling current model 
provides an accurate prediction of IG, ISL, 
and IDL in both the triode and the saturation 
regions. Without the compact gate 
tunneling current model, IG, ISL, and IDL 
couldn’t be modeled. Fig. 5 shows the total 
gate current versus VD of the NMOS 
device with the  1nm  gate  oxide and with  
the  channel  length  of 10um, 0.24um and 
100nm, biased at VG=0.5V and 0.7V in the 
saturation  region, based on  the  compact  
   
  
Fig. 6 I/(W/L) versus VD of the device with 
the gate oxide of 1nm biased at (a) 
VG=1.1V and (b) VG=0.5V 
Fig. 7 shows the total gate current (IG) with 
its components in Segments A, B and C, 
the source-end partitioned gate current (ISL) 
and its components, and the drain-end 
partitioned gate current (IDL) and its 
components versus VD of the NMOS 
device with the 1nm gate oxide and the 
channel length of (a) 0.24um and (b) 
100nm biased at VG=0.3V based on the 
partitioned gate tunneling current model. 
As shown in the figure, at a large VD, ISLc, 
IDLc, and IGc in Segment C become 
negative and dominating. Using the 
partitioned gate tunneling current model, 
this complex phenomenon could be 
modeled accurately. 
 
 
Fig. 7 Current components versus VD of 
the device with the gate oxide of 
1nm and with (a)L=0.24um and (b) 
L=100nm.                            
References 
[1] C. Choi et al, “Impact of Gate Direct 
Tunneling Current in Circuit 
Performance,” IEEE TED pp. 2823-29, 
Dec 1000. 
[2] W.Lu et al, “Modeling CMOS Tunneling 
Curr Thru Ultrathin Gate Oxide Due to 
Tunneling,” IEEE TED, pp.1366-73, 01. 
[3] D.Ward et al, “A Charge-Oriented 
Model for MOS Transistor 
Capacitances,” IEEE JSSC, pp. 703-08, 
1978. 
[4] C. Lin et al, “Partitioned Gate Tunneling 
Current Model Considering Distributed 
Effect,” Elec Lett, pp. 182-84, 2006. 
HVT to LVT.  This method is effective for small designs, but 
may be inefficient for large designs since timing analysis has to 
be repeated for a large number of cells in the critical paths.  In 
[3], only the highest cost cells in the critical paths are changed 
from HVT to LVT, where the cost is defined as the number of 
critical paths passing through the cell.  Although this approach 
may not result in the lowest static power dissipation, we have 
found designs produced using this technique to be close to 
optimal.  The approach described in [3] is faster to perform 
than [2] and is thus more suitable for large designs. 
Triple-threshold techniques have also been used to 
minimize the static power [7][8].  Previous attempts use HVT 
transistors as sleep transistors for logic blocks.  Within each 
logic block, the circuits are optimized using the dual-threshold 
technique, placing SVT transistors in non-critical paths and 
LVT transistors in critical paths.  Since HVT cells dissipate 
static power that is an order of magnitude less than the static 
power dissipation of SVT cells, a new triple-threshold 
technique has been proposed that places HVT cells within the 
logic blocks in addition to SVT and LVT cells [9]. 
In this paper, we present the results of optimizing the 
ISCAS’99 benchmark circuits with the new triple-threshold 
technique [9].  HVT cells are placed in non-critical paths while 
SVT and LVT cells are placed in critical paths to achieve the 
fastest clock speed and the lowest static power dissipation.  All 
of the benchmark circuits optimized using the triple-threshold 
technique have resulted in the lowest static power dissipations. 
III. COMPARISON OF THE STANDARD CELL LIBRARIES 
A. Characterizing Standard Cell Libraries 
Synopsys Design Compiler™ is used to synthesize a 16-bit 
Wallace-tree multiplier, which contains 1123 cells in total.  
Timing analysis is performed with Synopsys PrimeTime™ to 
extract the longest delay paths and obtain the clock speed 
information.  Design Compiler™ is used to report the circuit’s 
static power dissipation.  The multiplier circuit is synthesized 
three times: with the HVT library only, with the SVT library 
only, and with the LVT library only.  Based on the simulation 
result, we determine the relative performance and static power 
dissipation of the three libraries, as shown in Table I. 
The simulation results indicate that there is an order of 
magnitude difference in the static power between each cell 
library.  The HVT design dissipates the lowest static power, 
and the LVT design dissipates static power that is two orders of 
magnitude larger than the HVT design.  For large SOC designs, 
minimizing the use of SVT and LVT cells would thus lead to 
significant savings in the static power dissipation.  The triple-
threshold technique will allow designs to run at the fastest 
clock speed as the LVT design while minimizing static power. 
B. Static Power Calculations 
All static power dissipation values in the simulations in this 
paper are obtained from Design Compiler™.  For each cell, the 
90nm standard cell library contains a static power value for 
each possible input state.  Design Compiler™ calculates a 
cell’s static power by multiplying the static power value for 
each state by the percentage of the total simulation time at that 
state.  The total static power of a circuit is then calculated by 
summing the static power of each cell in the circuit. 
TABLE I.  PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF A 16-BIT WALLACE TREE 
MULTIPLIER SYNTHESIZED USING HVT, SVT AND LVT LIBRARIES 
Library HVT SVT LVT 
NMOS VT [V] 0.32 0.24 0.18 
PMOS VT [V] -0.36 -0.29 -0.24 
Longest Delay [ns] 3.4 2.6 2.1 
Max Clock Speed [MHz] 294.1 384.6 476.2 
Static Power [µW] 0.75506 14.4600 270.7120 
IV. POWER MINIMIZATION  METHODOLOGY 
We adopt the triple-threshold technique proposed in [9].  
The triple-threshold technique relies heavily on static timing 
analysis for selecting critical paths.  A critical path is a path 
from an input to an output where the total delay exceeds the 
timing constraint.  We define the cost of a cell as the number of 
critical paths passing through the cell.  A circuit is first 
synthesized using the LVT library.  Using PrimeTime™ for 
static timing analysis, we determine the shortest clock period 
that can be attained.  In the 16-bit LVT multiplier example, the 
shortest clock period is 2.1 ns.  We change the all-LVT circuit 
to its all-HVT version, and set the timing constraint to 2.1 ns.  
Since the HVT multiplier can only run at a clock period of 3.4 
ns, timing violation occurs and we can use PrimeTime™ to 
determine the critical paths in the design. 
Starting with the constrained HVT design, at each iteration, 
the highest cost HVT cell is replaced by its SVT counterpart to 
improve timing.  Static timing analysis is repeated to determine 
the highest cost cell for the next iteration.  Since the SVT 
multiplier only runs at a clock period of 2.6 ns and cannot meet 
the timing constraint of 2.1 ns, all HVT cells in the critical 
paths will be replaced by SVT cells and timing violation will 
occur.  At subsequent iterations, the highest cost SVT cells in 
the critical paths will be replaced by LVT cells until the timing 
constraint is met.  Fig. 1 shows a flow chart of the algorithm. 
Figure 1.  Triple-threshold power minimization flow [9] 
