 2
Moiré phenomenon is popular in daily life,such 
as visual superposed fences, net grids, or the 
noise produced by the images on TV set but 
with similar periods as the monitor scanning 
lines.  
Technologies using interferometry or 
refraction principles to measure the focal length 
of lens have been studied: such as nodal falls, 
magnifying image (Reid, 1981), moiré 
deflectometry (MD) (Glatt and Kafri, 1987; 
Keren et al., 1988), Talbot Interferometry (TI) 
(Nakano and Murata, 1985; Bernado and 
Soares, 1988), etc. Nicola et al. (1996) and 
Angelis et al. (1998) both proposed methods 
which adopting moiré principle to measure the 
focal length of lens. However, the processing 
procedure for these methods were unavoidably 
complicate or too expensive in set-ups. 
In this study, the algorithm for the 
measuring focal length of zoom lens was 
according to the moiré phenomenon and 
wavelet transform. We found that Ronchi type 
of gratings were magnified by a lens and when 
images with proper size, close to the pixel array 
interval of CCD sensor, then moiré 
phenomenon owning to the grating image 
superposed with the line intervals of CCD pixel 
array would be obvious. Since more precisely 
the interval value of this moiré image used to 
calculate the focal length of the under-testing 
zoom lens could be measure, more precisely 
the zoom lens’s focal length could be 
determined. One-dimensional WT technology 
was adopted to help to find intervals for the 
moirés, and outcomes achieved are quite 
satisfactory. 
 
2.2. Principles 
 
2.2.1 Moiré principle : 
In fact, the moiré effect is a very common 
phenomenon; one moiré image will be formed 
while superposing two images with similar 
periods. Although any two images with similar 
period superposed that will produce the moiré 
image, however, it usually uses the sheet with 
equidistant-layout opaque and transparent 
straight lines, which named the “Ronchi” 
grating. Its interference poison can easily be 
calculated by using a mathematical equation. 
One converted equation for one group grating 
that superposed along the y-axis and its interval 
is p as shown following :                            
kpy =         k  is zero or 
integer.                         (1) 
 
While a moiré image is formed by 
superposing two straight-line gratings, assumed 
there’re slight different interval between these 
two parallel grating ( 1p and 2p ); then can be 
indicated as:  
 
           1npx = ,                             
(2) 
           2mpx = ,                            
(3) 
Where n , m is zero or integer.  
After superposed these two gratings, it 
produced:  
, )11( 21 ppx −=κ     mn −=κ ,    
                (4)  
When 21 pp ≠  is the beating phenomenon 
of moiré effect.  
The moiré image possessed an interval 
value p in the original grating direction, which 
gives:  
12 111 ppp −= .    
                      (5)   
 4
1
1 )(
p
gpfK +=  .  
                  (13b)                                                       
As the value of s  is difficult to be determined, 
but the grating shift could be obtained by using 
micro-stages. Suppose that two distinct 
distances s and s′ corresponding to two clear 
displayed moiré image(with corresponding 
intervals P and P′ ) ,then the displacement 
difference is defined as sss −′=Δ  which 
could be precisely read by mcro-stages. The 
focal length of this lens can be obtained by the 
following equation:  
             )(
  
ppg
ppsf ′−⋅
′⋅⋅= Δ .      
            (14)                                           
Using image processing tool by MATLAB to 
enhance the moiré images obtained from 
digital camera, then applying 
one-dimensional wavelet transform 
(Daubechies Wavelet) to filter out the noises 
which are high frequency components of the 
original signals. Fig. 1 shows the entire image 
processing flowchart that another moiré 
images obtained before and after a small 
distance sift for zoom digital camera. Interval 
length could be gained by the average of 
intervals. Substituting the interval length pair 
into equation 14, the focal length can be 
determined.  
三、方法與實驗設計 
   
3. Experiments and Results 
Fig. 2 shows the setups adapted in this 
study. Including: a halogen light source, a 
reference grating (which interval value is 300 
line/in) and a CCD zoom digital camera 
under-test (which with an 7 sets and 7 blades, 3 
non-spherical lenses set, by Tekom 
Technologies, Inc). The digital camera is 
mounted on a micro-stage that could have a 
fine tuning in micro-meter at both X or Y 
coordinates. All these equipments are settled on 
a bench on the optical table to avoid vibration 
noises from the environments. In addition, the 
zoom digital camera is connected to a computer 
for data storage and processing on line. The 
effective focal length values of this CCD zoom 
digital camera under-test are 6mm, 7.39mm, 
9.03mm, 11.17mm and 16.91mm (by Tekom 
Technologies, Inc., as shown in Table 1). This 
CCD Image Sensor is a matrix array with 
2048(H)*1536(V) resolution, and its pixel size 
is 2.8μm * 2.8μm. 
     Firstly to measure the focal length of 
camera lens of 1X optical zoom, it is setting the 
proper distance calculated by theory for light 
source and the reference grating , and then 
turning the micro-sa the position of displaying 
the moiré. When the reference grating image 
shot by the digital camera and recorded as a 
digital image, the moiré image is produced with 
the CCD pixel array. Then the moiré image is 
shot and saved into a computer. Right now, we 
obtain the first moiré image, then we turn the 
X-coordinate fine-tuning knob on the XY table 
with a small distance SΔ and shoot the second 
moiré image, then we obtain 2 images of moiré 
pattern. We mainly take the centric area of 
moiré image as the analyzing area with 
considering the distortion of lens.  
Next, we use the image processing 
technology to eliminate noise for images and to 
enhance the moiré signals. Lastly, we use the 
method of Wavelet Transformation to analyze 
moiré further in order to obtain the interference 
numbers of moiré patterns and the average 
interval of moiré images. The average interval 
 6
moiré deflectometry,” Applied Optics, Vol. 
26, pp.2507-8. 
[6] E. Keren, K. M. Kreske, and O. Kafri, 
“Universal method for determining the focal 
length of optical systems by moiré 
deflectometry,” Applied Optics, Vol. 27, pp. 
1383-5. 
[7] R. Kingslake, Applied Optics and Optical 
Engineering, Vol. 1, Academic Press, New 
York, pp. 208-226. 
[8] S. G. Mallat, “A theory for multiresolution 
signal decomposition: the wavelet    
representation,” IEEE Transactions on 
Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 
Vol.11, pp. 674-693. 
[9] MATLAB, 1997, MATLAB TOOL BOX, 
The Math Works, Inc., Natick, Mass, USA. 
[10] Y.Nakano, and K.Murata, “Talbot 
interferometry for measuring the focal length 
of a lens,” Applied Optics, Vol. 24, pp. 
3162-6. 
[11] S. De Nicoal, P. Ferraro, A. Finizio, and G. 
Pierattini, “Reflective grating interferometer 
for measuring the focal length of a lens by 
digital moiré effect,” Optical 
Communication, Vol. 132, pp. 432-6. 
[12] G. Oster, “Optical Art,” Applied Optics, 
Vol. 4, pp. 1359. 
[13] G. T. Reid, “ Moire fringes in Metrology,” 
Optics Lasers Engineer, Vol. 5, pp. 63. 
[14] J. B.Weaver, Y. Xu, D. M. Healy, and L. 
D. Cromwell, “Filtering noise from images 
with wavelet transforms,” Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine, Vol. 21, pp. 
288-295. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8
 
 
Figure Legends 
Fig. 1   Flowcharts of Image Processing.  
Fig. 2   Schematic diagram of experimental setup.  
Fig. 3   Experimental setup.   
Fig .4   Moiré pattern of grating by digital camera. 
Fig. 5   Experimental data without wavelet processing. 
Fig. 6   Experimental data after wavelet enhanced. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2  Schematic diagram of experimental setup. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3  Experimental setup. 
 
 CCD camera (optical zoom) G: gratings 
0s
Computer 
Image 
Processor 
Monitor 
Optical Bench 
X Y Table
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Experimental data after wavelet enhanced. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
