relative frequency of occurrence of two grey levels at 
a specified distance and angle from each other. The 
distance D(d, θ) between pixels is very sensitive to 
the orientation θ. For each region, four different 
GLCMs can be created using θ values of 0, 45, 90, 
and 135o and a d value of 1. To eliminate the 
influence of the angle at which the image is 
ensonified, the matrices are averaged. For a 
traditional image quantized with 256 grey levels (8 
bits), each region will be associated with a matrix of 
256x256 floating-point values. The reduction in the 
number of grey levels yields a reduction in the size of 
the matrix. For a region with dimensions of NGxNG 
pixels, a suitable number of grey levels less than NG 
was suggested. 
Once the GLCM for a region has been computed, 
it can be used to compute texture statistics that can 
serve as features for the classification system. More 
than 25 texture indices are available, and only two 
indices, entropy and homogeneity, have proven 
useful for classification of acoustic images. Entropy 
measures the lack of spatial organization inside the 
region where the GLCM is computed. Entropy is high 
when all co-occurrence frequencies are equal., i.e., 
very low. This corresponds to areas of rougher 
textures. Conversely, entropy is low when the texture 
is smoother and more homogeneous. Homogeneity 
is directly proportional to the amount of local 
similarities inside the computation region. This 
parameter will be higher in regions of homogeneous 
backscatter of in regions with a few grey levels 
organized along at the scale of the computation 
region. 
III. THE AUTOMATIC DETECTION AND EVALUATION 
PROCESS 
The overall goal of the automatic detection and 
evaluation system developed was to aid the 
engineers and operators in the interpretation of side-
scan sonar imagery collected in the field. However, a 
long-term goal is dedicated to develop a completely 
automatic system for the detection of stationary 
target in real time at sea. Major components of the 
system developed included: acoustic image 
acquisition and processing, textural feature 
extraction for fixed-sized regions, feature 
classification, hierarchical cluster analysis for target 
identification, and target quantification and 
visualization of the results (Fig.1). 
A. Acoustic Image Acquisition and Processing 
A side-scan sonar produces images of the 
seafloor, made of points (pixels) whose values are 
proportional to the amount of energy backscattered, 
which are expressed as grey levels. The 
backscattering is affected, in decreasing importance, 
by the geometry of the sensor-target system (relative 
angle of ensonification), the morphological 
characteristics of the surface (e.g., micro-scale 
roughness) and by its intrinsic nature (composition, 
density, impedance, relative importance of volume 
and surface reverberation). Acoustic impedance (the 
product of density, ρ and compressional wave 
velocity, v) can be used to define the reflection 
coefficient, R for normal incidence, which is a 
measure of the strength of the reflection: 
1122
1122
vv
vvR ⋅+⋅
⋅−⋅= ρρ
ρρ                                (1) 
For a traditional concrete cubic artificial reef with 
dimensions of 2 m x 2 m x 2m, the reflection 
coefficient (R) for normal incidence with respect to 
sea water is approximately 0.68. The reflection 
coefficient of typical sandy sediments off southwest 
Taiwan is approximately 0.33. Therefore, an artificial 
reef lying on sandy sediment will acoustically appear 
as dark, rectangle shaped scatters accompanied by 
shadow. The accompanying shadow will depend on 
the height of the reef extended above the seafloor 
and the altitude of the sonar towfish above the 
bottom. The geocoded side-scan sonar image was 
further processed, which included geometric 
corrections (i.e., slant range to ground range) and 
radiometric corrections (i.e., time-varying gain 
corrections). 
Major factors which played an important rule in the 
results of automatic target detection are quality and 
pixel resolution of the side-scan sonar imagery. The 
influence of image quality on the final results is 
apparent. Good quality images are more likely to 
result in a well defined classification. However 
images that are excessively disturbed or distorted, 
exhibit interlacing, or even images which have been 
taken with a lot of noise in the water column will all 
result in lower quality information being extracted in 
the feature vector. Lower quality data in the feature 
vector will make it difficult for the classification 
system to converge towards a suitable result. Good 
quality images are directly correlated to the working 
conditions during acquisition which includes: sea 
state, towfish stability, towing platforms stability, 
towfish altitude, sound velocity profile and noise 
(both ambient and self-made). 
Detectability of a stationary target on the 
sonograph is highly dependent on its pixel resolution. 
The parameters affecting pixel resolution are sonar 
range scale, tow speed and horizontal beam 
directivity, and can be summarized as the number of 
sonar pings hitting the target. A conservative plan for 
the detection of a target includes one which chooses 
tow speeds and ranges that will allow for at least 12 
insonifications (pings) in a forward travel distance 
equal to the target’s least dimension. 
B. Textural Feature Extraction forFfixed-Sized 
Regions 
Image texture is an attribute of groups of adjacent 
pixels; therefore, it is useful to group pixels into 
regions and to extract features that describe the 
texture of the region. A square sliding region was 
used for region extraction in this investigation. 
Region size and sliding distance are two major 
parameters for the algorithm. Among them, a region 
size must be selected that is large enough to capture 
sufficient textural information but small enough to 
avoid regions that contain a mixture of textures. 
Theoretically, the ‘best’ region size can be 
determined empirically based on pixel resolution of  
E. Target Quantification and Visualization of the 
Results 
Visualization of the results is accomplished by 
mapping the representative pixels of each region 
classified as the target cluster (produced in the 
classification step and identified by hierarchical 
cluster analysis) into a specific color (red or black). 
Physical properties of the targets are therefore 
quantized which includes target perimeter, 
coordinates, area, shape factor (perimeter/area) and 
total number.  
IV. PROGRAM VERIFICATION AND CALIBRATION  
Program verification and optimal parameters 
determination were conducted with a sonograph 
(650 x 650 pixels and covers an area of 48 x 48 m) 
acquired at Chey-Ding artificial reef site off 
Kaohsiung County in 2005 (Fig-2). The side-scan 
sonar system was operated at 500 kHz with slant 
range setting at 75 m, towing speed of 3 knots and 
towfish altitude of 10 m above sea floor. The 
sonograph, illustrating good quality, has been 
processed under slant-range corrections and 
radiometric corrections to enhance the contrast of 
targets. The visual interpretation of the sonar image 
illustrates two types of textures, i.e., concrete, cubic 
artificial reefs scattered on a homogenous sandy sea 
floor. 
 
 
Figure 2. Side-scan sonar image for program 
verification and calibration. (650 x 650 pixels) 
 
Feature extraction is the dominant problem in 
automatic target identification from images. Values 
for a number of different parameters related to 
feature extraction and classification must be 
determined, which include: region size, region sliding 
distance, number of grey levels, number of classes 
and feature selection. An evaluation process based 
on produce’s accuracy, error of omission and 
consumer’s accuracy was adopted in this 
investigation. 
A. Optimal Parameters Determination 
Optimal region size and region sliding distance for 
this specific type of sonograph were evaluated and 
determined empirically. Initial investigation illustrated 
that a region sliding distance of 4 is an acceptable 
selection in this case. Based on this sliding distance, 
classified images using 16 grey levels and region 
sizes of 8x8, 12x12, 16x16, 24x24, 28x28, 32x32, 
36x36, and 40x40 were evaluated. For these 
experiments, AutoClass was set to execute for 4 
attempts as suggested by this computer program, all 
regions were used for classification, and AutoClass 
was allowed to determine the number of classes. In 
most cases, AutoClass would cluster the features 
into 7 classes. The evaluation results (Fig-3) 
indicated that the 28x28 region size, with maximum 
value of produce’s accuracy (93.5%) and 
consumer’s accuracy (88.2%) and minimum value of 
error of omission (6.5%), was the optimal region size 
for the identification of artificial reefs in this case. 
 
 
Figure 3. Optimal region size determination based 
on produce’s accuracy, consumer’s accuracy and 
error of omission. 
 
B. Target Identification by Hierarchical Cluster 
Analysis 
Target identification was conducted based on the 
posterior probabilities for each classified classes. 
Seven classes were classified in this case and the 
cluster analysis dendrogram (Fig-4) showing 
similarity of these classes. The length of the 
branches, i.e., sure group clicking, indicates degree 
of similarity (short being more similar). At rescaled 
distance of 20.6 to 25, there are two clusters (labeled 
A and B). Since the minimum rescaled distance 
(sure group clicking value) is 20.6 and quite large, it 
is evident that the similarities of these two clusters 
are comparatively low. Cluster A contains two target-
related classes (i.e., concrete reefs; class#5 and 
class#7) and Cluster B five seafloor-related classes. 
The two target-related classes can be identified as 
reef highlight (class#7) and reef shadow (class#5) by 
feature values and shape factors. Therefore, the 
dendrogram and the sure group clicking value were 
quantized for target identification. 
The image was processed under slant-range 
corrections and radiometric corrections to enhance 
the contrast of targets. To perform target 
identification, the image was divided into smaller 
blocks with dimensions of 2048 x 550 pixels and a 
50 pixel overlapping for consecutive blocks. Optimal 
parameters determined previously were used which 
include a region size of 38 x 38 pixels, a region 
sliding distance of 4 and 16 quantified grey levels.  In 
addition, a corridor of 108 pixels wide centered at the 
suture line was omitted during region extraction. 12 
consecutive blocks were obtained and the target 
identification tasks were conducted one block at a 
time. It is worth mention that at slant range setting at 
75 m, the side-scan sonar ping repetition rate is 10 
pulses per second. An image block of 550 pixels 
(pings) in length is equivalent to a data acquisition 
period of 55 seconds in the field. Therefore, the 
image processing algorithm proposed in this 
investigation has a potential to be used in a real time 
processing environment does not just fit in offline, 
post-processing tasks.  
The results showed that the contents of each 
block can be evaluated based on the sure group 
clicking value obtained by hierarchical cluster 
analysis (Fig. 7). The values which fell between 20.6 
and 24.4 indicate that there are cubic reefs existed in 
the block and can be identified properly (Fig. 8). 
Between 15.3 and 17.4 indicate that there are 
targets with smaller dimensions (i.e., small cross-
shaped reefs) existed in the block which can not be 
properly identified (Fig. 9). Between 10.1 and 10.9, 
there is no target existed on the seafloor (Fig. 10).  
The classification results of the selected image were 
established through image fusion of the individual, 
consecutive blocks (Fig. 10). 
Blocks with smaller targets which can not be 
detected properly (i.e., #1, #2, and #3) were further 
investigated by employing smaller region sizes. 
However, the results are still not convincing. It is 
suggested that the image possess certain internal 
noises which caused problems related to the 
detection of smaller targets. 
The results of target quantification indicated that 
there are 41 targets existed, the center coordinates 
and area covered were calculated, and the total 
number of cubic artificial reefs identified in this case 
is between 122 and 240. 
 
Figure 7. Relationship of sure group clicking value 
and the existence of targets on the sea floor. 
 
 
Figure 8. Classification results of block#8 illustrate 
the existence of cubic reefs (class#7). 
 
 
Figure 9. Classification results of block#3 illustrate 
the existence of small cross-shaped reefs but can 
not properly identified.. 
 
