行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告
水下網路的媒體存取和繞徑協定研究
計劃編號：NSC－97－2221－E－305－005
執行期限：97年8月1日至98年7月31日
主持人： 莊東穎 教授 共同主持人：陳裕賢 教授
執行單位：國立台北大學資訊工程系
計畫參與人員：林勻蔚、洪康瑋
Abstract—The large-scale mobile Underwater Wireless Sen-
sor Network (UWSN) is a useful networking paradigm to
explore underwater environments. The characteristics of mo-
bile UWSNs, such as low communication bandwidth, large
propagation delay, and floating node mobility are significantly
different from wireless sensor networks. In this paper, we
propose a new efficient routing protocol, called multi-path rout-
ing (MPR) protocol, for UWSNs to improve the transmission
delay. In this paper, multi-path is utilized during the path
construction from the source node to the destination node.
Multi-path is constructed by a series of multi-subpaths. Each
multi-subpath is a sub-path from a sending node to its two-
hop neighboring node, called receiving node, by one more relay
nodes, where these relay nodes simultaneously are neighboring
nodes of sending and receiving nodes. Due to the different
propagation delay of UWSN, the packet arrival time along
the different sub-path is different; thus it may avoid the data
collision in the receiving node when receiving differnt packets
from different relay nodes. It surely sends the different packet
along different sub-path to significantly improve delay time and
packet delivery ratio. Finally, simulation results illustrate the
performance achievements of the MPR protocol in improving
delay time, packet delivery ratio, throughput and reducing
overhead ratio.
Keywords-Underwater wireless sensor network, multi-path,
relay, propagation delay, routing.
I. INTRODUCTION
UWSN is rapidly increasing interest from scientist and
business group, because there are large resources in the
sea. As we know, human are not suitable for underwater
envi-ronment exploration and deployments cost in under-
water based networks is much higer than terrestrial based
networks. Typically communicate in UWSN spend about
ten thousand dollar. Large surface and deep height result
in underwater equipment sparsely deployed [9]. In the past
three decade the application for UWSN including undersea
exploration, UWSN can be used to oil extraction or detecting
reservoirs from underwater [3]. It is a long-term exploration
and typically spends many years to discover resource. For
the application of the pollution monitoring, UWSN also use
for disaster prevention, such as tsunami warning or study
the affect of seaquakes, military reconnaissance, submarine
and mine always cause seriously harmful to navy, therefore
navy use UWSN to perform anti-submarine mission [3].
In the wireless sensor network (WSN), sensor nodes
must work in low power con-sumption environment, but in
the UWSN there are more constrained because of intrinsic
properties: First, propagation delay, the propagation speed
in water (1.5×103 m/s) is five orders of magnitude lower
than radio propagation speed (3×108 m/s)[15]. Second, in
[10] [1]list the power consumption for underwater WHOI
modem and RF sensor. Underwater sensor nodes are battery
power and change the battery for senor node in underwater
is a difficult task. Designing energy efficient communication
protocol has an important role in extending the network op-
erational lifetime. Third is sensor node mobility, the sensor
nodes in the WSN typically are static. On the other side,
due to water current influence the underwater equipment
(sensor node, sink) location, in empirical observations, un-
derwater equipment move at the speed of 3-6 km/h in
atypical underwater condition [9].
Forth, error probability of acoustic channel characteris-
tics, sound propagation is primarily determined by noise,
transmission loss, multi-path and Doppler spread. Noise can
classified as man-made noise and ambient noise. Man-made
noise is mainly caused by machinery noise and shipping
activity [9]. Ambient noise is related with the background
sustained noise emanating from a many of unidentified
source. Because of multiple individual sources in under-
water and can not identified, neither sources dominates
the received field. The level of underwater ambient noise
may have large variations upon a change location, time or
depth. Finally, Doppler spreading cause a degradation in the
performance of digital communications and transmissions at
center control unit
surface station
sensor node
sink
Figure 1. System model
A. System Model
The architecture of UWSN is illustrated in Fig. 3.1. The
underwater sensor node fixed on ocean floor by anchored
or random deployed in an arbitrary location. All of them
communicate with each other by using acoustic signals and
relay data through multi-hop routing or direct link to the
buoys (i.e.sinks). In addition, they must be able to self-
configure and adapt to harsh ocean environment. Underwater
sensor nodes are equipped with a limited battery, stay at
a certain depth and drift with water currents. Buoys are
drifting on sea surface and relay the underwater sensor node
data to the cen-ter control unit (i.e.ship). The function of
buoys can act as a getaway between acoustic networks and
radio frequency (RF) networks. Precisely, buoys use acoustic
signal to collect underwater sensor nodes data and use radio
frequency signal transmit these data to the center control unit
or satellite through RF. Mobile equipment under sea surface
is an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). The capability
of AUV includes: (1) A AUV covers large area than static
underwater sensor nodes in underwater environment. (2)
AUV traveling from node to node crosses all underwater
networks like data mule. When an AUV is deployed in
underwater, the center control unit initiates AUV and as-
signs the task. After that AUV performs the task, the AUV
periodically send report which contains ID, location and
underwater information to center control unit.
B. Acoustic Channel Characteristics
The ocean is a timely and spatially vary environment
and the characteristics of this en-vironment cause significant
challenges to the of effective underwater wireless commu-
nications systems. The speed in water is increasing with
increasing temperature, salinity and depth, directly related
to pressure. When the sound speed increases 4 m/s then
water temperature arising 1◦C. When salinity increases 1
PSU, the sound speed in water increases 1.4 m/s and depth
of water increases 1 km, the sound speed increases about
17 m/s [14]. A typical speed of sound in water the ocean
surface is near about 1500 m/s to 1520 m/s. The change
of temperature is most reason that changes speed of sound
in wa-ter. This is because salinity effect on sound speed
is small. As depth increasing, the pressure of water suffers
largest effect on the speed of sound. Such slow propagation
speed in water environment cause hardly to deal with mobile
sensor node and network topology changes very rapidly,
in this paper, we aim on design time efficient routing al-
gorithm. Attenuation or path loss that occurs over a distance
d, for a signal frequency f is given by[23]:
A(d, f) = A0d
ka(f)d (1)
where A0 is the normalizing constant and s is the spreading
factor. While s = 2 for spherical spreading, k = 1 for
cylindrical and k = 1.5 for the so-called practical spreading.
In the water transmission, wave energy may be converted
to other forms and absorbed by the medium. The material
imperfection is directly controlled by the absorp-tive energy
loss[2]:
a(f) = A1
P1f1f
2
f21 + f2
+A2
P2f2f
2
f22 + f
2
+A3P3f
2 (2)
in dB/km, with f in kHz. A1, A2 and A3 are constants; the
pressure dependences are given by parameters P1, P2 and P2
; and the relaxation frequencies f1 and f2 are for relaxation
process in boric acid and magnesium sulphate, respectively.
C. Basic Idea and Challenge
In this section, we introduce the characteristics for: (1)
single-path and multi-path scheme and (2) sensor node
affected by ocean current. In Fig. 3.2, let S denote the
source node, D denote the destination node and the others
are relay node. As shown in Fig. 3.2(a), there is only one
single path between any two nodes. Althougth the scheme
may simplify the routing table and a packet flow path, but
single-path is not fault tolerant. In underwater environment,
because the propagation delay in any two nodes are different,
sensor nodes carry half-duplex omni-directional transceivers
and use single-path transmission, In addition, it wastes time
for transmission. For multi-path scheme, there are two ways,
one is partial as shown in Fig. 3.2(b) and other is full multi-
path as shown in Fig. 3.2(c), where there exist multiple
paths between source node and destination node. There are
two advantages for the multi-path scheme. First, since data
load is distributed over multiple paths, the packet drop rate
would be decrease and achieve load balancing. In addation
to, multi-path increasing the battery lifetimes. Second, high
network robustness because multiple same packet are sent
by multiple path[7][24]. There two types of multi-path,
namely, non-disjoint paths and disjoint paths. Disjoint paths
can further classify two types: node-disjoint paths and link
disjoint paths. Fro the node disjoint paths, they do not use
common node. For the path disjoint paths, they do not use
common link.
Table I
COMPARSION OF SINGLE-PATH AND MULTI-PATH EFFICIENCY
Length of Time Slot 31.25ms 62.5ms
Total Time Slot for Single-Path 106 53
Total Time Slot for Multi-Path 56 28
Index of Efficiency Iefficiency 86% 176.4%
The advantage of this way can reduce transmission time.
The multi-path transmission time slot can be expressed as:
Total T imeSlot forMulti–Path =
Mount of data
Bandwidth of each slot + ( TSRNumber of relay  − i)+
Propagation delay (5)
Where i is a parmeter which use for when number of relay
large than number of time slot requirement and dependent
on the value of time slot requirement divide number of
relay. When value i equal to 0, it means that use number
of relay equal to number of time slot requirement. In
order to compare time efficiency for two scheme for index
Iefficiency . We have to show how multi-path could cost less
time consumption than single-path, first we have to know the
scale that total time slot of multi-path link on total time slot
of single link, then consider the relation between length of
time slot and maximum propagation delay:
Iefficiency =
Total time slotsingle link
Total time slotmulti link
×Length of time slot
MaxiumTx range
V elocity of acoustic(6)
Here we use an example for different two different time
slot length, assume that velocity of acoustic is 1500 m/s.
In this example, source node transmit 1Mbytes, use the
short transmission range which is 200 m [3], length of
time slot is 31.25 m/s and 62.5 m/s [21], bandwidth is 20
kHz propagation delay is 6 time slot and number of relay
equal to number of TSR for multi-path scheme. We have
to discuss whether time slot is effect transmission delay in
the underwater network system, the result shown in Table I:
Ground base sensor network generally in fairly dense
depolyment with stationary sensor nodes. In contrast, in un-
derwater sensor network toward sparse and mobile network.
The ocean current is most reason cause sensor node drift in
ocean. Ocean waters move continuously. The speed of these
current varies based on the gyres, or currents that are kept
in motion by prevailing winds. Each gyre consists of four
currents. Whereas speeds of surface currents can reach as
high as 250 cm/sec (98 in/sec, or 5.6 mph) a maximum
for the Gulf Stream, speeds of deep currents vary from 2
to 10 cm/sec (0.8 to 4 in/sec) or less[18]. VBF and HH-
VBF base on vector that construct in initial flooding query
to decide next forwarder. In this way, when a node measure
the vector to decide whether if proper to forward packet, its
affect by the position. In addation, pipe radius range also
affect the number of candidate forwarder. In surface area, if
pipe radius too small, it difficult to find the forwarder. But
in MPR, source node find forwarder did not any restriction.
Althought it also suffer the ocean current, but after sensor
nodes drift at next position, nodes still in transmission range.
For example, assume two relay node transmission delay is
500 ms and nodes at surface, we can estimate drift distance
is 500ms× 2.5m/s× 2 = 2.5m. Clearly, MPR not affected
by the ocean current in short transmission, as shown in Fig.
3.4.
D. Contribution
In this paper, multi-path scheme and multi-sequence trans-
mission of approaching is proposed to efficient in underwater
network transmission. It overcome propagation de-lay seri-
ously in underwater environment. In existing investigations,
single-path scheme waste more time to transmission cause
ineffective network. The contributions are sum-marized as
follows: (1) our MPR protocol achives a new low propaga-
tion delay routing protocol to transmission, which use multi-
path scheme to transmission packets; (2) every node only
need to get two hop information which to adapt rapid change
network topology environment; (3) our MPR protocol can
reduce end-to-end propagation delay form source node to
destination node because every packet distributed sanded by
dif-ferent path.
IV. A MULTI-PATH ROUTING PROTOCOL
In this section, we describe how MPR work efficiently in
underwater environment. The MPR consist of three phases:
(1) propagation delay collection phase (2) intermediate node
selection pase and (3) relay node selection phase. In first
phase, since routing path is determined by propagation
delay, so the source node needs to know the two hop delay
information from its to neighbor node and form neighbor
node to next hop node. In relay node selection phase, node
use propagation delay information to decide which node is
intermediate node I . The third phase source check all the
relay nodes whether if occur the collision each other. The
detailed operation is developed as follows.
A. Propagation Delay Collection Phase
In order to against long propagation delay and find the
routing path is difficulty problem in underwater environ-
ment. Thus find the maximum amount path in this phase.
The UWSN is not like the existing one for Ad-Hoc networks,
the moving model for UWSN is either meandering jet or
captured to eddy keeps the sensor around same place [6].
Assume that sensor nodes drift in same way thus each node
only needs two-hop propagation delay information as shown
in Figure 4 to illustrate this phase. The proce-dure of the
propagation delay collection phase is described below.
SR1
R2
R3
R4
RREQ
PTSR1
PTSR4
PTSR3
PTSR2
(a)
R1
R2
R3
R4
S
Ic1
RREQ
PTRI1
PTRI2
PTRI4
PTRI3
(b)
S
R1
R2
R4
RREP
PDTi,j
Ic1
R3
(c)
Figure 5. Propagation delay collection
R4
S
R1
R2
R3
Ic2
Ic3
Ic4
PT =324ms2,2PT =568ms1,1
PT =500ms3,3
PT =500ms2,3
368m
s
1
7
7
m
s
3
0
2
m
s
1
2
9
m
s
3
7
1
m
s
2
0
0
m
s
1
2
6
m
s
1
9
8
m
s
255m
s
1
7
9
m
s
288ms
32
1m
s
12
5m
s
PT =659ms3,2
PT =500ms1,3
D
PT =496ms3,4
PT =489ms4,4
PT =500ms4,3PT =469ms1,2PT =453ms2,1
Ic1
T
T
L
Figure 6. Intermediate candidate node selection
R4
S
R1
R2
R3
I
D
Figure 7. Intermediate node selection
with every Ri. There are two type of collision problem
in the MPR protocol : (1) relay node collision and (2)
intermediate node collision. Before assign packet to relay
node for transmission, S has to void these two problems. In
relay node collision, realy node Ri collide with relay node
another relay node Rj for i = j. The intermediate node
collision, realy node Ri collide with intermediate node I .
In this phase S check all the relay node whether if occur
collision in two hop node pattern. If there is a rely node
Ri collide with other node (i.e. relay node or intermediate
node), then S drop this Ri and select other to transmite
packet. We describe two collisions as follow.
S1. After S collect all two hop transmission delay informa-
tion, including between S and Ri propagation delay,
between Ri and Rj propagation delay, for i = j
and between Ri and I propagation delay. Thus S
knows informa-tion (Ri, PTi,j , Ri ∈ N(Rj)), which
represent node ID, propagation delay and belong to
which neighbor.
S2. S creates three matrix : (1) S to Ri propagation matrix
SRi =
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎣
TSR1
TSR2
.
.
.
TSRi
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎦ +
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎣
PTSR1
PTSR2
.
.
.
PTSRi
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎦ =
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎣
PSR1
PSR2
.
.
.
PSRi
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎦,
where TSRi is time stamp for S transmit packet to
Ri, PTSRi is propagation delay form S to Ri. (2)
Ri to Rj propagation matrix RiRj =
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎣
TSRiR1
TSRiR2
.
.
.
TSRiRj
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎦+
SR1
I1
R1
R1
R2
R3
R3
I2 D340ms490ms
240
ms
500ms
430ms
36
0m
s
430ms 470
ms
25
0m
s
510ms
340
ms 490ms
200ms
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Time Slot
250ms
1 32
160ms 570m
s
1 2
1 32
1 32
1 32 4
1 32 4 5 1 32 4 5 6
1 32 4 5 6 7 8
540ms
1 32
1 2
1 32 4 5 6 7 8
1 32
1 32 4 5 1 32 4 5 6
1 32
1 32 4
1 32
1 2 1 32
1 32 4 1 32 4 5
1 32 4 5 1 32 4 5 6
1 32 4 5 6 7 8
60ms
220ms
R2
R2
590ms
480ms
360ms
Figure 9. MPR protocol operation
propagation delay collection phase. When S collects all the
delay information and select the I1, then check the collection
problem. After check collisoin problem, S sends first data
packet to R1, second packet to R2 and third data packet to
R3 . Every data packet occupy 250ms time slot, first data
packet sent by time slot 1 and received by time slot 2, second
data packet sent by time slot 2 and received by time slot 3,
third data packet sent by time slot 3 and received by time
slot 5. Similary, intermediate node I1 do the same selection
process and check collision process as source node. Finally,
destination node D received packet orderly, the data packet
received by time slot 6,7,8.
V. PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
MPR protocol is performed an analysis in terms of end-to-
end delay, successful rate, throughput and overhead. Based
on NS-2, we implement and modifiy our simulation using
underwater module [25]. To consider the effect of the net-
work density and node velocity do a UWSN, our simulator
consider a 3-Dimensional space of 2000m×2000m×500m;
The source is fixed at location (1850, 1850, 550) near corner
at the floor. Sink is located at location (500, 500, 250) near
the opposite corner at the surface. All the nodes are mobile
which affect by the water current, only the source and the
surface sink are static. Mobile nodes move in X-plane and
Y-plane in common mobility pattern. We set the parameters
similar to a commercial acoustic modem, Link Quest UWM
1000: the bit rate is 10k bps; the transmission range is 100m
and the energy consumptions in sending mode, receiving
mode and idle mode are 2w,0.75w and 8mw respectively.
The result is obtained from 100 runs, with a randomly
generated topology in each run. The simulation time for
each round is 1000 seconds. The performance metrics to
be observed are:
• The End-to-End Delay with ocean current (ETEDOC)
is given by the time taken for a packet to reach the
node with ocean current.
• The Packet deliver ratio (PDR) is the percentage of
node successfully receive the packet at vary node speed
and node density.
• The Throughput is the total number of data packets
which node by the source.
• The Overhead ratio is the total number control of
packets used.
Table II
NETWORK PARAMETERS
Variable Description
Transmission range 100m
Bit rates 40kbps
Data packet size 35bytes
Control packet size 4bytes
Time slot length 200ms
Pipe radius 50m
An efficient multi-path protocol in a UWSN is achieved
with a low ETED, high DSR, low TP and low POR.The
parameter of these three protocols are presented in Table II.
A. End-to-End Delay with ocean current
ETEDOC The simulation results of the ETED under
various node velocity in different depth of ocean is shown
in Fig. 5.1. We set the deepest of ocean is 500m with
node velocity is 1.0m/s, and top of ocean is near 50m
with node velocity is 2.5m/s. In addation, in every 100m
is the junction ocean current, there are four junction in
this simulation, as shown in Fig. 5.1(a). We can observe
that ETEDOC (End-to-End Delay with ocean current) of
the MPR, VBF and HH-VBF is decreasing with ocean of
depth. VBF protocol uses single pipe to forward packet,
cost large delay in this scene, especially at ocean surface.
VBF and HH-VBF affected seriously delay time. These two
protocol according to vector to decide next forwarder, the
node position is very important, once node leave the position
it could not be find any forwarder or it not be forwarder. In
addation, desireness factor is another condition to find next
forwarder. For VBF and HH-VBF, when the pipie radius is
big, the ETEDOC reduce for node mobility. In the occean
of bottom, the oceant current affect nodes mobility lessness.
MPR use multi-path scheme, two-hop transmission and did
not performe the self-adaption algorithm, it can reduce the
transmission time delay In addation, MPR did not ues any
pipe or vector, althought it also affected by ocean current,
but the ETEDOC is better than VBF and HH-VBF.
B. Packet Delivery Ratio
PDR The simulation results of the PDR under various
node speed and node density are shown in Fig. 5.2. In Fig.
5.2(a) MPR,VBF and HH-VBF scheme increases PDR with
higher network density. We can observe that for VBF and
HH-VBF when the nodes closer to the routing vector can
forward packets and own low adaption delay. At high node
densities, there are too many nodes want forward packet
cause large number of collision and decrease the PDR. For
MPR, PDR is low in the spare node density, because it
hard to find the path in the underwater environment. In high
node density, node can find more forwarding path; besides
(a)
(b)
Figure 12. Performance of packet throughput vs. (a)network density and
(b)node velocity
still cause source hard to find the forwarder. In high velocity
noode network, VBF get the more throughput decrease but
throughput for MPR affect less by node velocity.
D. Overhead
In Fig. 5.4 shows the simulation results of the packet
overhead ratio for three routing protocol. Because MPR
and HH-VBF use multi-path transmission, thus the overhead
in Fig. 5.4(a) overhead is mucher than VBF. In the other
hand, VBF use single path transmission and thus use single
foolding in network. That can be reducing the overheand. In
Fig. 5.4(b) VBF and HH-VBF affect by the node velocity
thus they get high overhead ratio. At the low node velocity,
because HH-VBF uses flooding to find the neighbor, cause it
higher overheand than MPR and VBF. When node velocity
increase, VBF affected by the node speed because it fix
pipe. MPR less affectd by node velocity csuse the slope
is moderate than VBF. We can observe that HH-VBF is
(a)
(b)
Figure 13. Performance of overhead ratio vs. (a)network density and
(b)node velocity
less affected by node velocity because use multi-pipe and
increase the reliability.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we present a time efficient transmission
protocol for underwater sensor network. To consider the long
propagation delay and mobility for underwater sensor node,
in this thesis, we develop a routing protocol by utilizing
multi-path to achieve low-propagation delay and use two-
hop transmission to handle sensor node mobility. The main
results of our multi-path protocol are summarized as fol-
lows: (1) our routing protocol is a multi-path scheme and use
multi-sequence transmission which effectively reduce the
delay propagation delay time and effec-tively increase packet
delivery. (2) our routing protocol builds a two hop transmis-
sion, which form a “segment’ in one transmission; source
node only need two hop nodes information. (3) our routing
protocol offer high successful rate than sin-gle-path scheme.
