   - 2 -
The Research of Innovative Dynamic-flexible-attribute Customer Value Model 
for Self-Service Technology in Retailing Industry 
Abstract 
  In-store interactive kiosks using Internet technology represent a channel within a channel in many 
retails and service settings. They offer wide-ranging informational, transactional and promotional benefits, 
as well as contributing to increase customer value. Drawing upon the technology acceptance model, two 
empirical studies are reported, one using the Structural Equation Modeling, the other the System 
Dynamics. Thus, a model was able to predict the cross section and the longitudinal section of intention of 
use and actual use. 
  The view that our research applied the system dynamics, analyze the dynamic modes of SSTs. Its 
simulation time for 36 months and the result indicated that contact to new science and technology several 
years, the attitude, behavior intention and actual usage to go deep rise and fall. It’s reason that MMK 
entered the new market and the consumers were still in the exploring stage. After it, three parameters 
obviously tend towards stability. Namely show the market have being ripe with time, consumers have 
already transform the facilitate tools which has been used to MMK in their life. 
 
Keywords: Self­Service Technology, System Dynamics, Customer Value 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
零售業自助式服務科技之創新動態屬性顧客價值模式研究 
摘要 
店內的互動 Kiosk 利用網路科技成為許多零售店與服務設施通路中的一個通路，它們提供廣泛
的資訊、交易、與促銷優惠，且幫助增加顧客價值。為了讓顧客廣泛的採用，更要去了解他們所有
的使用潛力，因而提出兩個主要研究來描繪科技接受模型，一個為結構方程模型，另一個為系統動
態學。是故，模型要能預測橫斷面與縱斷面的使用意圖與實際使用。 
本研究並利用系統動態學的觀點，研究SST的動態模式。其模擬36個月的時間結果指出，接觸
新科技的前幾年，態度、行為意圖與實際使用的趨勢起伏波動較大，代表MMK剛進入新市場，消費
者還處於探索的階段。而其之後，三個變數明顯趨於穩定的狀態，即表示市場隨著時間成熟之後，
消費者已經對於MMK的認知已經成為生活上習慣的輔助工具。 
 
[關鍵字]：自助式服務科技、系統動態學、顧客價值 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
 
   - 4 -
to service companies but also goods companies. Parasuraman [28] stated that the technology-readiness 
construct refers to people’s propensity to embrace and use new technologies for accomplishing goals in 
home life and at work. TRI including four dimensions: optimism, innovation, discomfort and insecurity. 
The dichotomies in the eight technology paradoxes discussed by Mick and Fournier [30] reflect general 
facets of potential drivers and inhibitors of technology readiness. Prior studies also have identified 
specific consumer beliefs and motivations that may enhance or curtail adoption of new technologies [8,9]. 
2.3 Service Quality, Customer Value, Satisfaction 
Cronin, Brady, and Hult [14] reported that there has been a convergence of opinion that favorable 
service quality perceptions lead to improved satisfaction and value attributions and that, in turn, positive 
value directly influences satisfaction. Bagozzi’s [29] model suggests that the initial service evaluation 
leads to an emotional reaction that, in turn, drives behavior. Adapting the framework to a services context 
suggests that the more cognitively-oriented service quality and value appraisals precede satisfaction 
[10,11,12,13]. 
Depending on the prior studies, several competing models of direct effects can be identified. The first 
model is based on the service value literature, where value is suggested to lead directly to favorable 
outcomes [10,14,15,16]. The second model is derived from the satisfaction literature that, contrary to the 
value literature, defines customer satisfaction as the primary and direct link to outcome measures 
[10,17,18,19]. The third model indicate that service quality influences behavioral intentions only through 
value and satisfaction [10,20]. That is, the depicted relationship between service quality and behavioral 
intentions is indirect [10]. The forth model is derived from prior competing model, which include direct 
and indirect (through value and satisfaction) effect of service quality and behavioral intentions [10]. 
 
3. Methodology 
3.1 Structure Equation Modeling 
In our study, all variables were measured using 5-point Likert-type scales. Factor analysis for the all 
constructs showed strong and clear factors with loadings ranging from 0.54 to 0.92. Composite alphas 
were ranging from 0.58 to 0.79. Average variance extracted was ranging from 0.43 to 0.75. 
The goodness-of-fit test on all the constructs showed an excellent fit (χ2 = 441.116, χ2/df =2.042, root 
mean square error of approximation [RMSEA] = 0.058, goodness-of-fit index [GFI] = 0.885, and 
comparative fit index [CFI] = 0.929, normed fit index [NFI] = 0.872), thus providing evidence of 
convergent validity.   
Structural equation modeling mainly describes the relation between latent variables, and the 
measurement model describes the relation between observed variables and latent variables (see Figure 
3-1). The analysis results of SEM found the positive relation existed and all significant. Therefore, we use 
the β coefficients of the path structure to do the weights of the system dynamics in this study. 
   - 6 -
4. Result 
4.1 Original Simulation Analysis 
The results in our study show that the attitude and actual use and customer value were decreased slowly 
in the initial time (see Figure 4-1). However, it will be raise progressive after about the five months and 
incline to steady in the twentieth month. Moreover, behavior intention will be raise progressive from 
initial to the twentieth month and after that incline to steady. When the new services of the MMK into the 
market, consumers were probably either not to understand or have another various substitute need. 
Therefore, before the twentieth month, the attitude and behavior intention and actual use to go deep rise 
and fall. When the new services more and more widespread in the market, consumers have already 
transform the facilitate tools which has been used it in their life. For this reason, the whole trends toward 
steady about after the twentieth month.  
 
Figure 4-1 original simulation analysis 
 
4.2 Policy Stimulation Analysis 
  In our study, we use two types to stimulate system dynamics model, advertisement and innovation. In 
part of advertisement, we add the transfer flow of advertisement every season to influence actual use to 
bring a cycle of fluctuate [function: PLUSE TRAIN]. Another policy is innovation, we assume some 
competitors into the market. So, existent firms will be upgrade MMK services or innovation and decrease 
the substitute need which is resist competitors. Therefore, we add the transfer flow of innovation to 
influence service quality [function: RAMP]. 
  The results indicate that the policy of advertisement and innovation will accelerate the actual use 
increasingly (see Figure 4-2). In the figure 4-2, innovation policy has greater effect than current from 
forth month to final time and greater effect than advertisement policy from eighth to final time. However, 
advertisement policy has significant effect before seventeenth month, after that time will overlap with 
current. It means that advertisement has significant effect for a time, but cannot continued effect. All 
policy stimulation analysis showed that the trend will be tend to steady after twentieth month. 
 
   - 8 -
  The further research should toward longitudinal study to reexamination this model. Agarwal and 
Karahanna [26] suggest that the cross-sectional study major weakness is that it cannot infer the causality 
of the research result. Lee, Kozar and Larson [27] also indicated that the dominance of cross-sectional 
study is also an important limitation. The consumer’s perception and intention can change over time, it is 
important to measure these quantities at several points of time. Hence, further researcher should to 
lengthen points of time to understand the actual conditions of consumer use MMK. 
 
Reference: 
[1] Bitner, M. J., Brown, S. W. and Meuter, M. L. (2000), “Technology Infusion in Service Encounters,” 
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 28 (Winter), 138-149. 
[1] Dabholkar, P. A. (2000), Technology in Service Delivery: Implications for Self-Service and Service 
Support. Handbook of Services Marketing and Management. Eds. Teresa A. Swartz and Dawn 
Iacobucci. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. 103-110. 
[2] Meuter, M. L., Ostrom, A. L., Bitner, M. J., and Roundtree, R. (2003), “The influence of technology 
anxiety on consumer use and experiences with self-service technologies,” Journal of Business 
Research, 56 (11), 899–907. 
[3] Meuter, M.L., Ostrom, A.L., Roundtree, R.I. and Bitner, M.J. (2000), “Self-service technologies: 
understanding customer satisfaction with technology based service encounters,” Journal of Marketing, 
64 (3), 50–64. 
[4] Ginsburg, J. (1999),“Deck the malls with kiosks (the popularity of kiosks),＂Business Week (USA), 
13 (Dec), 56-57. 
[5] Keeling, K., McGoldrick, P., and Macaulay, Linday, L. (2006), “Electronic Kiosks in Retail Service 
Delivery: Modeling Customer Acceptance,” Journal of Marketing Channels, 14 (1/2), 49-77. 
[6] Pasarnphanich, P. and Gillenson, M. L. (2003),“The hybrid clicks and bricks business model,＂
Communications of the ACM, 46 (12), 178-185. 
[7] Davis, F. D. (1986), A technology acceptance model for empirically testing new end-user information 
systems: theory and results. Doctoral dissertation, Sloan School of Management, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. 
[8] Davis, F. D., Bagozzi, R. P. and Warshaw, P. R. (1989), “User acceptance of computer technology: a 
comparison of two theoretical models,” Management Science, 35 (8), 982-1003. 
[9] Dabholkar, P. A. (1994), Technology-Based Service Delivery: A Classification Scheme for 
Developing Marketing Strategies. In Advances in Services Marketing and Management, vol. 3. Eds. 
Teresa A. Swartz, David E. Bowen, and StephenW. Brown. Greenwich, CT: JAI, 241-271. 
[10] Anderson, E. W. and Fornell, C. (1994), A Customer Satisfaction Research Prospectus, in Service 
Quality: New Directions in Theory and Practice. Roland T. Rust and Richard L. Oliver, eds. 
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 241-268. 
[11] de Ruyter, K., Wetzels, M., Lemmink, J. and Mattson, J. (1997). “The Dynamics of the Service 
Delivery Process: A Value-Based Approach,” International Journal of Research in Marketing, 14: 
231–243. 
[12]Kelley, S.W. and Davis, M. A. (1994). “Antecedents to Customer Expectations for Service 
Recovery,” Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 22 (1): 52–61. 
   - 10 -
計畫成果自評 
    過去大多數在社會科學方面相關之研究，使用系統動態學的方法進行模擬探討是相當鮮少，這
也亦是本研究的貢獻以及在社會科學門上的一個新突破。系統動態學過去大多數是用在工程學科，
資訊管理學科等等，主要是用來模擬產品，政策等等的效果模擬。而行銷的角度主要是在探討消費
者的行為，從知覺、心理等虛擬的角度出發。故，在本研究的過程中，是具有一種困難性存在，這
也是本研究的限制，加上由於過往文獻較少，多採以縱斷面的文獻加以輔助，是故，未來亦須加以
採用縱斷面的實證，重新檢驗本研究所使用系統動態學所模擬之結果。 
    本研究主要探索顧客價值的縱斷面的變化，使用系統動態學模擬新科技上市時，消費者所產生
的態度、行為意圖、實際使用以及其他的替代需求等等，進行後續可能行為之模擬。其預期所達成
之方向為即可能正確模擬加入一些實際情況，提供系統動態中所需要之修正與回饋，以模擬出一個
正確的顧客價值的變化。相對其困難性是存在的，消費者心理的個體因素相對眾多，其市場總體環
境之因素亦是相對複雜。因此，本研究希望提供一個最初的方向，以利後續之研究，能進而在更深
入之使用系統動態學探討社會心理之層面。 
   自助式科技服務的產品日亦眾多，因此所給予消費者的顧客價值亦是相對不同。本研究計畫主
要是探討MMK科技，為透過資訊化服務顧客，Kiosk成為資訊化浪潮中一顆閃耀的新星，提供消費
者許多新的互動方式且應用之領域相當廣泛。Kiosk 為「互動式多媒體資訊站」，是一種自助服務
設備，主要整合了各種軟硬體設備，以影片、圖片、文字、音樂等多媒體資料庫存取的互動環境提
供產品販售或是資訊提供的服務。因此，所給予學界上新的探討方向以及業界上的使用評估應用價
值，是非常具有參考性。 
   然而到底使用MMK可以為顧客帶來哪些利益？本研究將顧客認知價之分為效用價值與經驗價
值，提升顧客效用價值的方式包含持續地引進突破性的設計和新技術、購買的方便性、卓越的服務、
節省交易時間、產品與服務的多樣化、合理價格、及價格上的優惠；經驗性價值包含美觀的介面、
MMK 本身的魅力、美好的經驗等(Eastlick and Feinberg, 1999)。創造與提供顧客價值為企業目標，
且是企業經營重要的事(Albrecht, 1994)，價值的創造不但可以創造忠誠顧客與未來市場的領先地
位，並可維護企業存在於社會的正當性(Albrecht, 1994; Kotler, 1996)。Woodruff (1997)曾指出，顧
客價值將是下一個競爭優勢主要來源。諸多學者如Day(1994)、Naumann(1995)、Slater and 
Narver(1995)等並呼籲，企業應以創造並傳遞優良的顧客價值，重新定位公司策略以取得競爭優勢。
在科技發展日新月異，競爭日益激烈的現代經營環境中，任何創新的產品或服務都會被模仿，尤其
科技為基礎的互動服務比人員的互動服務更容易被模仿，因此企業為保持領先的優勢，必須持續創
造新特色，增加多元化服務，亦即新的顧客價值。這也亦是本研究利用系統動態學所提出之動態顧
客價值模式的最終的理想。 
   本研究所提出的理念與貢獻，適合發表於資料或行銷類等期刊，如MIS Quarterly, International 
Journal of Human-Computer Studies, Information & Management, Journal of Service Research等等國際
期刊，以供後續學者做跨國性(cross-national)之研究，加以強化與延伸本研究之系統動態學的方法
使用與研究結果。  
 
 
 
 
 
