第 2 頁，共 12 頁
1. Introduction
Ti-based coatings, such as TiN, TiAlN, TiCN et al, have been widely used on cutting
tools, and their mechanical components be able to prolong the lifetime and to improve the
working performance because of their high hardness, low coefficient of friction, and chemical
stability [1-3]. However, a more sternly use environment is required in industry resulting in
disagrees with these coatings, due to insufficient chemical and mechanical properties at more
high temperature application. Therefore, many researchers have done the studies of
advanced coating materials by adding different element, such as Al, Si, Cr, W, to improve the
oxidation resistance at elevated temperature and/or the mechanical properties. Among them,
Ti-Si-N and Ti-Al-Si-N are attracting much concern because they show a lot of increased
hardness and improved performance compared with previous TiN coatings [4-7]. Both
TiSiN and TiAlSiN coatings exhibited extremely high hardness values in excess of 35 GPa,
which were identified as nanocomposites consisting of nano-sized TiN (or AlN or TiAlN)
crystallites surrounded by an amorphous Si3N4 matrix [8-12]. Similar results have been
obtained using chemical vapor deposition (CVD) at high temperature (> 1050oC) by Hirai et
al [13], using plasma-assisted CVD at medium temperature of 550oC by Li et al [8-12] and
using physical vapor deposition (PVD) techniques at low temperature such as sputtering [14,
15], cathodic arc evaporation by Dobrzanski et al [16-19].
Recently, CrSiN and Cr-Al-Si-N coatings have been focused by several research groups
for their superhardness (>40 GPa), thermal stability and high-temperature oxidation resistance.
These coatings were characterized as nanocomposites consisting of nanocrystalline CrN or
CrAlN embedded in amorphous Si3N4. Such coatings can be produced by different PVD
techniques, such as magnetron sputtering and cathodic-arc evaporation (CAE). The
cathodic-arc ion plating process for the deposition of hard coatings is well known of high
ionization in the plasma and allows the deposition of dense coatings.
The aim of this study was to synthesize CrAlSiN coatings prepared by cathodic arc
plasma evaporation. The role of Al and Si, which is believed to play a major role on
microstructure changes of these films, is particularly considered for hardness enhancement,
corrosion, wear behaviors, and high temperature oxidation resistance.
2. Experimental details
Polished tungsten carbide (WC-Co material) and SUS 304 stainless steel be used as
substrates. A dual target cathodic arc evaporation (CAE) system with straight-duct designed
sources was used for deposit three kinds of films in a single process, as shown in elsewhere
[20]. The macro-particles were reduced by a ring-duct in front of arc sources. In CAE system,
the reactive gas is introduced through a manifold in front of each target. The partial pressure
of the reactive gas then is controlled by a mass flow meter, and the flow of gas (i.e. N2 and Ar)
through each manifold can be introduced independently, to satisfy the needs of each
第 4 頁，共 12 頁
films, the diffraction peak intensities evidently reduced and broadened, results in changes the
preferred orientation from [111] to [200]. Furthermore, it was established that only crystalline
CrN diffraction peaks were detected for Si incorporated. In addition, no reflection peaks
assigned to Si3N4 or other titanium silicide phases were observed.
Fig. 1. X-Ray diffraction spectra of the deposited CrN and CrAlSiN coatings
Fig. 2 shows the cross-section high-resolution TEM image and selected area electron
diffraction pattern of as-deposited films. In Fig. 2-(a), it can be seen that the lattice image of
CrN film indicating highly crystalline microstructure. However, comparing the HRTEM
image of CrAlSiN (Fig. 2-(b)) to that of CrN (Fig. 2-(a)), it is evident that the microstructure
consisting of nano-crystal CrN, CrAlN and Si3N4 embedded in an amorphous Si3N4 matrix
and randomly distributed across the whole region. As for the electron diffraction patterns of
the films, those were compatible with the X-ray diffraction patterns of Fig. 1. It was also
found from the electron diffraction studies that the un-doped CrN film showed a strong
preferred orientation, whereas the CrAlSiN films with ~6 at.% Si had a relatively wear and
random orientation. The electron diffraction pattern corresponding to the Si3N4 phase was not
observed from the films.
(a) (b)
Fig. 2 Cross-section high-resolution transmission electron microscopy image and selected
area electron diffraction patterns of (a) CrN, (b) CrAlSiN films.
第 6 頁，共 12 頁
Typical SEM photographs illustrating the fractured cross-section views of CrAlSiN
coating layers by the cathodic arc plasma evaporation technique are shown in Fig. 4,
respectively. As shown in Fig. 4, the fracture surface of three coatings reveals a two-layered
film structure. The underlying layer, representing the Cr/CrN compound interface in the
coating were designed and implemented in a graded structure, between substrate and top layer,
for enhancing adhesion strength of as-deposited coating. The top layer, representing the
microstructure of CrAlSiN coating with a Si content of 6.4 at.% were dense and fine in
thickness of 1.5m.
These results are consistent with microstructure analysis shown above. This formation of
an amorphous region of CrAlSiN films might be explained based on the assumption that the
seed CrN, AlN or CrAlN matrix is no longer sufficient to induce that crystalline growth [14],
due to the characteristic of low temperature and lower ion energy of typical PVD process.
Resulting the CrAlSiN coating is dense and non-columnar structure due to refinement of
microstructure by Si incorporation into the film.
Fig. 4 Cross-section SEM images of CrAlSiN coating deposited on WC-Co substrate,
showing a two-layered film structure.
3.2 Mechanical Properties
The nanohardness and elastic modulus of each coating are listed in Table 1. The CrN
films without Si co-deposition show a hardness of approximately 23 GPa. However, as
Si-addition to form both CrSiN and TiAlSiN coatings leads to the hardness enhanced up to
approximately 36 GPa and 41 GPa, corresponds to the Young’s modulus are approximately
300 GPa and 365 GPa, respectively. Moreover, the residual stress and grain size determined
and calculated by modified XRD sin2Ψ method [23, 24] also have listed in Table 2. This
result indicated that highly compressive stress was exhibited in larger hardness of both CrSiN
第 8 頁，共 12 頁
current density, as presented in Fig. 5, and the corrosion parameters listed in Table 2. Clearly,
in comparison with the corrosion potential (Ecorr) of the CrAlSiN coating (-0.377 V, SCE),
Ecorr was higher than the CrN or CrSiN coatings, reaching -0.423 V and -0.635 V, respectively.
The material with low reduction potential is more active. The CrAlSiN coating with high
corrosion potential represents its noble behavior in the simulated sea water environment.
This increase represents a more noble electrode potential being achieved, thus indicating the
better improvement of corrosion resistance by the CrAlSiN coating.
Corrosion current density is commonly utilized as an important parameter to evaluate the
kinetics of corrosion reactions. The corrosion rate is normally proportional to the corrosion
current density measured through polarization. Result in the CrAlSiN films showed the
lowest corrosion current density, indicating the lowest corrosion rate. The calculated
polarization resistances (Rp) are presented in Table 2. This result also reveal that the
CrAlSiN film exist a largest of corrosion resistance, compared with both CrN and CrSiN
films.
1x10-11 1x10-10 1x10-9 1x10-8 1x10-7 1x10-6 1x10-5 1x10-4 1x10-3 1x10-2
Current Density i (A/cm2)
-1.2
-0.8
-0.4
0
0.4
0.8
E
vs
.S
C
E
(V
)
Potentiodynamic Polarization
Tests in 3.5 wt% NaCl (aq)
TiAlSiN
TiN
TiSiN
TiN
TiAlSiN
TiSiN
Fig. 5 Potentiodynamic polarization curves of CrN, CrSiN and CrAlSiN coating in aerated 3.5
wt.% NaCl aqueous solutions.
The corrosion potential and current density monitored and recorded during immersion of
the systems in a corrosive medium can provide information regarding the ongoing corrosion
reaction processes. Fig. 6 presents results obtained from CrN, CrSiN and CrAlSiN coated
stainless steel. From this figure, again, the corrosion potential of both the CrN and CrSiN
continued to decrease, but the potential of the CrAlSiN film increased in the beginning , and
CrN
CrN
CrSiN
CrSiNCrAlSiN
CrAlSiN
第 10 頁，共 12 頁
pile-up of wear debris due to the adhesive wear behavior between CrAlSiN hard film and
relatively soft WC-Co ball, thus would be more worn and smeared on the counter surface of
wear track of CrAlSiN film. This result also reveal that a larger variation curve of friction
coefficient of CrAlSiN film, which compare with both CrN and CrSiN films, result in were
affected by wear debris.
Another, the wear behavior also is affected by the tribo-chemical reactions in counter
area, which often take place in many ceramics [33, 34], e.g. Si3N4 react with H2O to produce
SiO2 or Si(OH)2 tribo-layer, and CrAlN react with O2 to produce Al2O3 tribo-layer [35].
These products of SiO2, Si(OH)2 and Al2O3 were known to play a role as a self-lubricating or
protection layer. Results in shown the friction of coefficient with a longer period during
run-in state, and than an obvious reduce during steady-state, especially CrSiN film.
Therefore, the friction of coefficient of all films may be affected by film properties, counter
materials and wear mechanism.
0 200 400 600 800 1000
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
CrAlSiN CrSiN
CrN
C
oe
ff
ic
ie
n
to
f
fr
ic
tio
n
Distance (m)
Fig. 7 Comparison of friction coefficient of CrN, CrSiN and CrSiAlN films against a WC-Co
ball.
4. Conclusions
Comparison of microstructure, mechanical, corrosion, and wear properties of CrN,
CrSiN and CrAlSiN films were deposited by cathode arc evaporation process were obtained.
Result in that CrN film exist a highly crystalline than that of both CrSiN and CrAlSiN films,
which was characterized by a nano-composite consisting of nano-sized refinement (reducing
form approx. 44 nm (CrN) to 14 (CrSiN) and 11 nm (CrAlSiN)) and nano-crystal metal
nitride, titanium silicide and silicon nitride embedded in an amorphous Si3N4 matrix.
第 12 頁，共 12 頁
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
□ 可申請專利 █可技術移轉 日期：96年 10月 30日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：CrAlSiN奈米複合結構鍍膜之機械、切削性質與高溫磨
潤特性分析研究
計畫主持人：張奇龍
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-451-004
學門領域：表面工程 E8
技術/創作名稱 CrAlSiN奈米複合結構鍍膜沉積技術
發明人/創作人 張奇龍
中文：
本計畫開發新穎 CrAlSiN硬質薄膜之機械、切削和高溫磨潤特性之
研究。其中將導入柱狀式陰極電弧源沉積技術，藉由其接近無微粒
產生之高品質鍍膜特性，以作為對碳化鎢精密切削刀具的磨潤滑與
切削特性之表面改質應用研究。其目的在於開發出一新穎 CrAlSiN
硬質薄膜應用於碳化鎢切削刀具上以克服如乾式切削所遭遇的高
溫磨耗特性、高溫應力狀況、更高附著力要求、不黏料性要求與機
械性質穩定等高嚴苛環境的應用問題。
技術說明
英文：
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
切削刀具、精密機械、精密模具、積體電路封裝產業
技術特點 1. CrAlSiN硬質薄膜之機械、切削和高溫磨潤特性
推廣及運用的價值
克服如乾式切削所遭遇的高溫磨耗特性、高溫應力狀況、更高附著
力要求、不黏料性要求與機械性質穩定等高嚴苛環境的應用問題。
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單
位研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
 2 
3 Platinum sponsor 
4 Micro materials 
5 CSM instruments 
6 MTS 
2.2 
發表論文摘要(Abstract): 
1. In this study, the TiSi(N,O) coating on tungsten carbide and SKH51 steel substrates 
were deposited using cathodic arc plasma deposition process.  This coating designed 
and implemented a compound interface, comprising a series of Ti, TiN, and TiSiN 
interlayers deposited in a continuous structure, between the TiSi(N,O) top coating and 
tungsten carbide substrate.  The TiSi(N,O) composition was varied by changing the 
oxygen flow rate during the coating process.  The phase structure, chemical 
composition, and morphology of coatings were observed by utilizing X-ray 
diffractometer, Auger electron spectrometer and scanning electron microscope.  The 
corrosion behaviors of the coatings were studied in aerated 3.5 wt.% NaCl aqueous 
solutions by interpretation of the electrochemical anodic polarization curves.  The 
tribological performance of TiSi(N,O) coatings was evaluated using a ball-on-disk 
tribometer.  The results showed that the corrosion resistance of TiSi(N,O) coatings was 
deteriorated than that of TiSiN coating.  However, the TiSi(N,O) coatings exhibits 
lower friction coefficient than that of TiSiN coatings 
 
2. In this study, the microstructure, corrosion and tribological behavior of the TiAlSiN 
coatings were studied, which compare to both TiN and TiSiN coatings.  These coatings 
were deposited on tungsten carbide and SUS 304 stainless steel substrates using Ti, TiSi 
and AlSi cathodes by cathodic arc plasma deposition system with straight-duct, which 
reducing macroparticles.  This coating designed and implemented a compound 
interface, comprising a series of Ti and TiN interlayers deposited in a graded structure, 
between the TiAlSiN top coating and substrates.  The microstructure of the coatings 
was characterized by utilizing SEM, XRD, TEM, EPMA and XPS analyzers.  The 
corrosion behavior of the coatings was studied in aerated 3.5 wt.% NaCl aqueous 
solutions by interpretation of the electrochemical anodic polarization curves.  The 
mechanical and tribological properties of the coatings were evaluated by the 
nanoindentation, scratch test and pin-on-ball tribometer.  The results of this study showed 
that the TiAlSiN coatings presented a better mechanical and corrosion resistance than 
both TiN and TiSiN coatings result in incorporation of Al and Si into TiN led to refining 
nano-composites structure formed. 
2.3 
      此次會議參予,我聆聽了許多各國學者的 oral session 也看了很多篇各國的 post 的海
報,讓我真是大開眼界,很多種不同的 coatings 技術,跟新潮的設備,還有各種不同用處的
奈米薄膜,除了硬質薄膜還又生醫用的殺菌薄膜,太陽能薄膜,還有各式各樣的奈米技術
 4 
 
參加(ThinFilms2008)留影 
 
 
 6 
 
發表論文海報 
 
 
 8 
 
HOTEL 
 
 
Oral 會場 
 
BACK TAIWAN 
