 
摘要 
 
    現代都市生活的型態，使得多種人造化學物質經由人類活動持續地被排放至環境中。
雖然隨著污水處理技術的開發，先進國家水環境中的人為污染物濃度極微，不至於對生物
或人類造成立即之毒性影響，但長期曝露在各式各樣的微量污染物質中，其複合毒性效應
可能會造成慢性的健康危害。此外，由於國內污水處理率仍偏低，多種污染物未經妥善處
理即排放至環境水體中。因此本研究計畫以發掘水環境中未知毒性污染物為目的，引入以
生物試驗法偵測潛在環境毒物之技術，在一年期的計畫中，應用可偵測類戴奧辛物質的基
因重組酵母菌，探討台灣水環境中此類污染物質的流佈情形。分析之環境樣本以污染嚴重
流域之河川水為主，亦有針對工廠廢水出流水及其上下游環境水樣的檢驗成果。河川樣本
中，二仁溪流域、鹽水溪流域及阿公店溪流域的樣本之生物試驗法誘導活性明顯偏高，表
示此兩流域中類戴奧辛物質之污染情況較為嚴重。此外，本研究並進一步利用液相層析儀
分離及純化水樣中未知之類戴奧辛污染物，並以液相層析串聯式質譜儀進行初步鑑定分
析，以期能找出環境中潛在之類戴奧辛毒性物質，來保護生物及國民健康。 
 
關鍵字：微量污染物質、基因重組酵母菌、生物試驗法、類戴奧辛物質、污染物流佈 
 
 
Abstract 
 
A variety of anthropogenic contaminants are frequently introduced into the aquatic 
environment via human activities. Although these pollutants are present in the environment at 
trace concentrations, they receive much concern due to their physical and chemical properties, 
including environmental persistence, bioaccumulative ability, and the potential combined toxic 
effects. In this project, we applied a yeast-based reporter gene assay to investigate the 
distribution of dioxin-like contaminants in the aquatic environment of Taiwan. Various water 
samples were taken from several heavily polluted river basins, in addition, treated industrial 
wastewater was also collected. Following the solid phase extraction of hydrophobic compounds 
in environmental water samples, bioassay analysis was carried out and concentrated extracts 
showing higher dioxin-like activity, such as the water samples collected at Erren River Basin 
and Yenshuei River Basin were fractionated using high performance liquid chromatography. 
Separated fractions were subjected to bioassay analysis, and candidates of novel dioxin-like 
contaminants in active fractions were isolated for further analysis using liquid 
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. This project aims to provide information of 
toxicant distribution in the aquatic environment of Taiwan, and to further identify major 
dioxin-like compounds to provide more chemical information of environmental pollutants. 
 
Keywords: micro-contaminants, recombinant yeast, bioassay analysis, dioxin-like contaminants, 
pollutant distribution 
 I
3. LITERATURE OVERVIEW 
3.1 AhR and Environmental Contaminants 
Chemicals binding to the AhR (refered as AhR ligands) have been classified into two 
major categories, the natural AhR ligands formed in biological systems and the synthetic AhR 
ligands generated from anthropogenic activities (17). For the most part, natural ligands such as 
indole-3-carbinol found in broccoli and cabbage do not produce AhR-dependent toxic 
responses, while halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (HAHs), known as typical anthropogenic 
AhR ligands, are famous xenobiotic contaminants capable of inducing a broad spectrum of 
toxic responses via AhR activation. 
3.2 AhR-dependent Biological Assays 
Recognition of novel persistent pollutants present in the environment is necessary to 
provide information for toxicant reduction. Bioassay-directed analysis, a less time- and 
cost-consuming approach used as a preliminary toxicity screening method, has been developed 
to investigate causative toxicants in various environmental samples or industrial products in 
recent years (18-21). This approach is suggested to be a promising technique for toxicant 
identification since it utilizes more efficient non-animal tests to measure toxicity, and also 
adopts chemical fractionation to reduce chemical complexity of environmental samples (22-25). 
Recent development in bioassays and analytical methods also expands the list of detectable 
contaminants, which makes this approach a more practical method for detecting emerging 
pollutants in chemically complex samples. 
Various bioassays have been developed to detect AhR-mediated dioxin-like activity 
elicited by environmental AhR-binding contaminants (45-48). The increased CYP1A1 
expressions, which can be determined by immunoblotting or by measuring the induction of 
mixed function oxygenase activities, such as 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation  or 
7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation in rat, trout, fish, or human cells, have been extensively used 
as markers of AhR-mediated dioxin-like activity (49-53). The chemically activated luciferase 
expression assay has also been used frequently by measuring the expression of an 
AhR-regulated luciferase reporter gene transfected into rat or mouse cell lines. This reporter 
gene assay has been utilized to assess the dioin-like activity of individual PAHs (54), industrial 
wastewater effluents (55, 56), and sediment from sea, lake or river (57-59). Introduction of 
AhR-dependent cell bioassays can also be found in other reviews (57-59). 
3.3 Bioassay-directed Analysis 
Bioassay analysis in combination with chemical fractionation has been developed to 
assess the toxicity of various environmental samples or industrial products since the early 1980s 
(41-44). This bioassay-directed analysis approach uses positive biological responses of 
sensitive bioassays to indicate the occurrence of target toxicants, and also includes 
fractionation procedure to isolate toxicant candidates for identification. Bioassay-directed 
analysis is suggested to be a promising technique for toxicant identification since toxicity can 
be measured by more time- and cost-efficient in vitro non-animal tests, and development in 
instrumental fractionation also helps to reduce chemical complexity of environmental samples 
(45-47). 
 
 
2
determined by reading the absorbance at 595 nm (A595) using a microplate reader (Bio-Rad, 
USA), and then 10 μL of the cell suspension was transferred into a new microplate and mixed 
thoroughly with 140 μL of Z-buffer and 50 μL of o-nitrophenyl-β-D-galactopyranoside solution 
(ONPG, 4 mg/mL). The absorbance at 405 nm (A405) was measured after incubating at 37 ºC for 
60 minutes, and the β-galactosidase activity (reported as LacZ units) was calculated as  
(LacZ units = 1000 × A405 / (A595 ×(mL of cell suspension added) × (minutes of reaction time)). 
DMSO that shows no dioxin-like activity in the assay was used as a vehicle for dissolving and 
diluting test samples. A typical xenobiotic AhR ligand β-naphthoflavone (β-NF) was used as the 
positive control.  
4.3 HPLC Fractionation and Ligand Identification 
Hydrophobic compounds extracted from environmental samples showing higher 
dioxin-like activity were fractionated by HPLC (Hitachi, Japan) using a Shim-Pack FC-ODS 
column (5 μm, 150x4.6mm, Shimadzu, Japan) with the gradient condition of 10-100% 
methanol in water from 0 to 20 minutes, and maintained at 100% methanol for another 20 
minutes. The flow rate was 0.8 mL/min. After reducing the chemical complexity of 
concentrated extracts via HPLC separation, fractions were then subjected to bioassay analysis. 
In addition, HPLC isolation was undertaken repeatedly to achieve satisfactory separation of 
target contaminants. 
Possible xenobiotic dioxin-like contaminants detected in YS4 were further collected and 
separated using HPLC separation. Several purified candidates of dioxin-like contaminants 
were subjected to instrumental analysis using LC-MS/MS to obtain information for chemical 
identification. 
 
5. RESULTS & DISCUSSIONS 
Figure 2 to Figure 7 show the dose-response curves of dioxin-like activity elicited by water 
samples taken at different sampling sites, including ER River Basin, DS River Basin, AGD River 
Basin, YS River Basin, GP River Basin, and JS River Basin. Water samples collected at ER-1, 
ER-3, ER-4, DS-1, YS-5, AGD-3, and AGD-4 showed higher dioxin-like activity, and lower or 
no dioxin-like activity was found in the water samples collected at BG River Basin, ZW River 
Basin, and DG River Basin (data no shown). 
Water samples of YS River and ER River were further collected in winter in order to 
prepare samples for HPLC separation. Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the dose-response curves of 
different sampling sites taken at ER River Basin and YS River Basin.  
Figure 10 shows the dose-response curves of dioxin-like activity elicited by industrial 
effluents and its upstream and downstream river water samples, and all samples showed low 
induction of dioxin-like activity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EVALUATION 
1. This is the first report of using bioassay analysis to detect the dioxin-like activity of river 
water samples taken at the aquatic environment of Taiwan, and we successfully revealed 
the distribution of dioxin-like compounds in different Taiwan’s river systems 
2. Further studies will be carried out to identify major dioxin-like contaminants in samples 
showing high dioxin-like activity 
 
REFERENCES 
(1) Muir, D. C. G.; Howard, P. H. Are there other persistent organic pollutants? A challenge for environmental chemists. Environ. 
Sci. Technol. 2006, 40, 7157-7166. 
(2) de Wit, C. A. An overview of brominated flame retardants in the environment. Chemosphere 2002, 46, 583-624. 
(3) Heidler, J.; Sapkota, A.; Halden, R. U. Partitioning, persistence, and accumulation in digested sludge of the topical antiseptic 
triclocarban during wastewater treatment. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2006, 40, 3634-3639. 
(4) Snyder, S. A.; Keith, T. L.; Verbrugge, D. A.; Snyder, E. M.; Gross, T. S.; Kannan, K.; Giesy, J. P. Analytical methods for 
detection of selected estrogenic compounds in aqueous mixtures. Environ. Sci. Technol. 1999, 33, 2814-2820. 
(5) Ohe, T.; Nukaya, H. Genotoxic activity of 1-nitropyrene in water from the Yodo River, Japan. Sci. Total Environ. 1996, 181, 
7-12. 
(6) Nukaya, H.; Yamashita, J.; Tsuji, K.; Terao, Y.; Ohe, T.; Sawanishi, H.; Katsuhara, T.; Kiyokawa, K.; Tezuka, M.; Oguri, A.; 
Sugimura, T.; Wakabayashi, K. Isolation and chemical-structural determination of a novel aromatic amine mutagen in water from 
the Nishitakase River in Kyoto. Chem. Res. Toxicol. 1997, 10, 1061-1066. 
(7) Kaiser, J.; Enserink, M. Environmental toxicology: treaty takes a POP at the dirty dozen. Science 2000, 290, 2053. 
(8) de Wit, C. A. An overview of brominated flame retardants in the environment. Chemosphere 2002, 46, 583-624. 
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
0.01 0.1 1 10
Concentration Factor
La
c 
Z 
un
it
YS-2 (千鳥橋)
YS-3 (新灣橋)
YS-4 (豐化橋)
YS-5 (太平橋)
YS-6 (鹽水溪橋)
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
0.01 0.1 1 10
Concentration Factor
La
c 
Z 
un
it
ER-1 (鯽潭橋)
ER-2 (二層行橋)
ER-3 (永寧橋)
ER-4 (南萣橋)
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
0.1 1 10 100
Concentration Factor
La
c 
Z 
U
ni
t
UP
PS
DW-1
DW-2
Figure 8  The dose-response curves of dioxin-like 
activity elicited by water samples taken at ER River 
Figure 9  The dose-response curves of dioxin-like 
activity elicited by water samples taken at DS River 
Figure 10  The dose-response curves of dioxin-like activity elicited by water samples of 
treated industrial effluent(PS) and it upstream (UP) and downstream river water (DW-1, DW-2) 
6
