 2 
正確形成、節點誤加入的克服(如何確保自家的節點不會去誤加入別家的網路，同時避免別家的節
點誤加入自家的網路，如圖 1 所示)、以及資料傳輸安全性的問題。 
 
 
圖 1. 感測網路中節點誤加入的問題 
 
事實上，傳統居家安全服務多採用有線感測器之方式進行，佈建費力耗時且成本昂貴。而近年
來發展的無線感測網路於居家安全之應用，國外廠商已陸續推出居家安全感測網路系統，如
Motorola 的 HomeSight、Eaton 的 Home HeartBeat、Control4 的 Home Automation、iControl 的 Home 
Security 等，唯其在佈建與管理上之操作繁複，需由專業人員架設，並無自助式安裝之 DIY 流程
設計。此外，缺少由使用者自行維護管理的操作方式與介面設計，導致售後服務成本的支出與使
用者的不便性。此外，許多居家感測網路之相關技術已被 know-how 保護或是專利佈局[12]-[13]。
然而，國內在此領域的研發相對來說是較緩慢的。 
 
Out-of-Box 
Devices
無線環境監測器
感測網路
佈建輔助工具 ZigBeeNetwork
儀表感測
環境感測 家電監控
消防安全
即時監控與
排程系統
居家感測網路
 
圖 2. 本計畫提出的居家感測網路之自助式監控系統研發概念圖 
 4 
2.2 裝置內容 
A) 控制中心 
基本上控制中心可為一台 PC、Notebook、或是 PDA 等。其具備：1)長距離的網路通訊介面(可
用 GSM/GPRS/3G/WiMAX 等無線通訊協定，或是 Ethernet/DSL 等有線通訊)，即提供閘道器功能
以連接至 Internet供使用者遠端監控居家安全。2) 短距離的網路通訊介面(如前述ZigBee、Z-Wave…
等)，以形成居家感測網路。3) IO connecter(本發明的實施例是 USB Socket)，以供 token device 的
插入。 
B) 網路節點 
圖 4 為居家感測網路所用之網路節點(包括路由器、感測器、與驅動器)，其內含微處理器、記
憶體、感測元件(如溫度、煙霧、火災等偵測)、驅動元件(如警報器、灑水器、發電機等驅動)，短
距離的無線收發器及天線、以及電源供應(來自主電源幹線或是電池)。其具備：1) IO connecter 的
插槽，以供 token device 的插入。2) LED(多顏色顯示)，以指引使用者操作(插入、等待、或拔除 token 
device)。註：有關微處理器的部分，可用單一系統晶片 SoC，如 TI CC2531 (同時支援 USB、RF
通訊處理、及 ZigBee RF 收發)。此外，亦可用一獨立的 USB 控制器、加上如 TI MSP430 處理器(控
制 RF 通訊)、與 TI CC2520 (ZigBee RF 收發器)。 
 
Processor
(with Memory)
Sensing
Component
Power Source
Short-Range
Transceiver
Antenna
Actuating
Component
IO
Connector LED
 
圖 4. 居家感測網路所用之網路節點 
 
C) Token Device 
圖 5 為一 token device 實施例，此佈建輔助裝置包括一個控制器、一個記憶體(Memory)、一個
IO Interface A 和一個 IO Interface B。IO interface A 可以和控制中心介面介接，如以 USB 為實施例。
IO interface B 可以和網路節點介面介接，如以 UART 為實施例。 
 
 6 
Network Node
START
Control Center
START
Configure network by user
(nwkID, channel, security key)
END
Insert token device
Waiting for token device
Token gets network
configuration from center
Control Center is ready!
Insert token deivce
Node gets network
configuration from token
Node joins the network
(join a router or the center)
Remove the token
Use token for other nodes, and then finish forming a sensor network.
Nodes are ready for further management via the control center.
LED on
node
Remove the token
Network node is ready!
 
 
圖 6. 利用 token device 來協助使用者佈建居家感測網路之流程 
 
3. 居家環境感測系統 
3.1 開發平台 
本計畫使用 Texas Instruments 之 ZigBee 開發平台[14]，來建立一智慧家庭之偵測與警示系統，
如圖 7 所示。其中 ZigBee 紅外線感測端是利用 Smart RF05BB Rev 1.3 與紅外線感測器所結合而成
的。首先在 Smart RF05BB 電池底板上裝置 CC2530ZDK_EM 評估底板，透過 CC2530EM 射頻 IC
可將想要傳輸之資訊傳送至接受端，再將紅外線感測裝置上繼電器之 COM 端及 ON 端與 Smart 
RF05BB 上的 I/O 介面結合。當紅外線感測裝置感測到溫度變化時，IC 555 會控制繼電器開始動作，
讓 COM 和 ON 兩端導通，使紅外線感測裝置能夠觸發 Smart RF05BB 傳送一訊號至資料接收端上，
以便在使用者介面做監視。 
資料接收端是使用 Smart RF05EB，其為低功率消耗射頻 IC 開發工具裡的主板，板子上方有數
 8 
4. 結論與建議 
對於現有居家安全系統於進行實體佈建時之操作繁複的問題，本計畫提出一個簡易地利用佈建
輔助裝置，來協助使用者佈建居家感測網路之方法，同時簡化無線感測器安裝的流程。 
在實作上，以市售(off-the-shelf)的 ZigBee 標準平台為基板，進一步改裝成居家用的環境監測
器。如此可確保本計畫所研發之相關技術，具備與國際標準的相容性(compliance)與互通性
(interoperability)，以利未來與其他相關的 ZigBee 感測裝置進行整合。 
藉由本計畫的執行，我們已建立居家感測監控網路系統之設計規範與實體操作經驗。此外，配
合我國智慧台灣之 i236 計畫之感知網路建設的推動，將可提供自助式套件的研發經驗。同時，參
與本計畫之工作人員，除對 ZigBee 感測網路與監控技術相關訓練之外，有助於其對未來新型態的
居家監控系統之啟發，並將計畫中所習得的各項技術投入國內相關產業的發展。 
 
參考文獻 
[1] I. F. Akyildiz, W. Su, Y. Sankarasubra-maniam, and E. Cayirci, “A survey on sensor networks,” 
IEEE Communications Mag., vol. 40, no. 8, pp. 102-114, 2002. 
[2] D. Culler, D. Estrin, and M. Srivastava, “Overview of sensor networks,” IEEE Computer, vol. 
37, no. 8, pp. 41-49, 2004. 
[3] K. Xu, H. Hassanein, and G. Takahara, “Relay node deployment strategies in heterogeneous 
wireless sensor networks: multiple-hop communication case,” in Proc. IEEE Sensor and Ad Hoc 
Communications and Networks (SECON), Santa Clara, California, USA, Sept. 2005, pp. 
575–585. 
[4] K. Xu, Q. Wang, H. Hassanein, and G. Takahara, “Optimal wireless sensor networks deployment: 
Minimum cost with lifetime constraint,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless and Mobile Computing, 
Networking and Communications (WiMob), Montreal, Canada, Aug. 2005, pp. 454–461. 
[5] Q. Wang, K. Xu, H. Hassanein, and G. Takahara, “Minimum cost guaranteed lifetime design for 
heterogeneous wireless sensor networks,” in Proc. IEEE International Performance Computing 
and Communications Conference (IPCCC), Phoenix, Arizona, Apr. 2005, pp. 599–604. 
[6] C. H. Wu and Y. C. Chung, “Heterogeneous wireless sensor network deployment and topology 
control based on irregular sensor model,” in Proceedings of International Conference on Grid 
and Pervasive Computing (GPC), Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS) 4459, France, 
May 2007, pp. 78-88. 
[7] V. Mhatre, C. Rosenberg, D. Kofman, R. Mazumdar, and N. Shroff, “A minimum cost 
heterogeneous sensor network with a lifetime constraint,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 4, 
no. 1, pp. 4–15, Jan. 2005. 
[8] J. Tang, B. Hao, and A. Sen, “Relay node placement in large scale wireless sensor networks,” 
Computer Commun., vol. 29, no. 4, pp. 490–501, Feb. 2006. 
[9] Q. Wang, K. Xu, G. Takahara, and H. Hassanein, “Device placement for heterogeneous wireless 
sensor networks: minimum cost with lifetime constraints,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 
6, no. 7, pp. 2444-2453, July 2007. 
 A Preliminary Application of Petri Nets to the 
Supervision of Remotely Operated Systems 
 
 
Jin-Shyan Lee 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
National Taipei University of Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
jslee@ntut.edu.tw 
 
 
 
Yuan-Ming Wang 
Information & Communications Research Labs 
Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) 
Hsinchu, Taiwan 
wym@itri.org.tw 
 
Abstract—In remotely operated weapon systems 
(ROWS), since the human soldier is involved in the 
control loop, particular improper operations may cause 
accidents and result in catastrophes. For such systems, 
this paper has used a command-filter-based framework 
to accept or reject the human-issued commands so that 
undesirable executions would never be performed. In 
the present approach, Petri nets (PN) are used to model 
the operated behaviors and to synthesize the command 
filter for supervision. An application to missile loading 
and launching processes is provided to show the 
feasibility of the developed approach. It is believed that 
the technique presented in this paper could be further 
applied to large-scale military weapon systems. 
Index Terms— Military weapon systems, remotely 
operated weapon systems (ROWS), modeling and 
supervision, Petri nets (PN), command filters. 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Over the last decade, due to the rapid development of 
information technology, several approaches have been 
proposed to develop remote monitoring and control systems 
allowing people perform operation from a great distance 
[1-4]. One application of the remote control technology, in 
the military, is the remotely operated weapon systems 
(ROWS) [5]. There are numerous advantages to using 
ROWS as a supplement to a security response force. The 
primary benefits are instantaneous response, ability to 
respond to multiple threats and locations, increased target 
accuracy (with remote sensing systems), immunity from 
hostile fire, and increased tactical efficiency. 
In general, a ROW is a “human-in-the-loop” system 
since soldiers use a specific interface to operate remotely 
located weapon systems. As shown in Fig. 1, the human 
operator sends control commands according to the observed 
status displayed by the state and/or image feedback. 
However, since the human is involved in the loop, accidents 
caused by human errors, such as omitting a step, falling 
asleep, and improper control of the system, may result in 
catastrophic failure. 
For such human-in-the-loop systems, Lee and Hsu [6] 
proposed for the first time applying the Petri net (PN)-based 
supervisory control theory of discrete event systems to 
developing supervisory agents to prevent abnormal 
operations from being performed. This previous work was 
from an active viewpoint to enable or disable the commands 
in advance of the command requests. In this paper, from a 
passive viewpoint, a command filter framework [7] is 
applied to avoid the improper control actions being carried 
out after the command requests are sent out. 
As shown in Fig. 2, the human soldier sends command 
requests to the ROWS through a specific network. Ahead 
the weapon systems, the command filter acquires the system 
status and makes the decision to accept or reject the 
commands so as to meet the required specifications, 
typically safety requirements. The role of a command filter 
is to interact with the human soldier and the weapon system 
so that the closed human-in-the-loop system meets the 
required specifications and to guarantee that undesirable 
executions are never occurred. 
 
Controlled
System
Human
Operator
Control Action
Status Display
Network
 
Fig. 1. A typical “human-in-the-loop” system. 
 
978-1-4244-5226-2/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE 2139
 multiple transitions are enabled at certain markings. 
3) Cyclic: As shown in Fig. 3 (c), if a sequence of operations 
follow one after another and the completion of the last 
one initiates the first one, then a cyclic structure is 
formed among these operations. 
4) Conflicting: As shown in Fig. 3 (d), if either of two or 
more operations can follow an operation, then two or 
more transitions form the outputs from the same place. 
5) Mutually Exclusive: As shown in Fig. 3 (e), two 
processes are mutually exclusive if they cannot be 
performed at the same time due to constraints on the 
usage of shared resources. A structure to realize this is 
through a common place marked with one token plus 
multiple output and input arcs to activate these processes. 
 
p2t1p1 t2
(a)
p1 t2 p2
t1
t3p3 p4
(b)
t2
p1
t3
t1 p2
t4p3
(d)
p2t1p1 t2
(c)
t2
t3
t1 p2
t4
p3
p1
(e)
 
Fig. 3. Basic PN models for (a) sequential, (b) concurrent, (c) 
cyclic, (d) conflicting, and (e) mutually exclusive relations. 
 
In this paper, for the soldier-controlled ROWS, PN 
models of the command requests and system responses will 
be constructed based on these elementary models. 
 
C. Modeling of ROWS 
On the part of the human-controllable events, the human 
behavior can be modeled using the command/response 
concept [7]. As shown in Fig. 4, each human operation is 
modeled as a task with a start transition, end transition, 
progressive place and completed place. Transitions drawn 
with dark symbols are events that are controllable by the 
remotely located human through the network. Note that the 
start transition is a controllable event as “command” input, 
while the end transition is an uncontrollable event as 
“response” output. On the other hand, the 
human-uncontrollable action can be simply modeled as a 
single event transition. 
 
completedin progressive 
Command:
start operation
Response:
end operation
Controllable events by the human
 
 
Fig. 4. Modeling of human behavior using the command/response 
concept. 
 
 
III. COMMAND FILTER DESIGN 
This section introduces a PN-based synthesis procedure 
for the command filters. 
Definition 3.1: Given two nets ),,,( 11111 OITPG   and 
),,,( 22222 OITPG   with initial marking M0,1 and M0,2, 
respectively. The synchronous composition of G1 and G2 is a 
net ),,,( OITPG   with initial marking M0: 
21 || GGG  ,      (2) 
where, 
21 PPP  ; 
21 TTT  ; 
),(),( tpItpI i  if ]})[2,1{( ii TtPpi  , else 
0),( tpI ; 
),(),( tpOtpO i  if ]})[2,1{( ii TtPpi  , else 
0),( tpO ; 
)()( 1,00 pMpM   if 1Pp , else )()( 2,00 pMpM  . 
In this paper, an agent that specifies which events are to 
be accepted or rejected when the system is in a given state is 
called a command filter. By definition, an agent could be a 
computer program that is situated in some environment with 
the capabilities of autonomous actions (such as computing, 
communication, and sensing) in order to meet its design 
objectives [12]. 
For a system with plant model G and specification 
model H, the filter can be obtained by synchronous 
composition of the plant and the specification models: 
 
HGS || ,            (3) 
 
where the transitions of H are a subset of the transitions of 
G, i.e. GH TT  . Note that S obtained through the above 
construction, in the general case, does not represent a proper 
filter, since it may contain deadlock states from which a 
final state cannot be reached. Thus, the behavior of S should 
be further refined and restricted by PN analysis [10-11]. 
2141
 In the proposed command filtering framework, the 
human commands are accepted or rejected to satisfy the 
safety specifications. As shown in Table I, without command 
filtering, the state space is 16 including the undesired states. 
By using the filtering approach, the state space reduces to 15, 
which means the one undesired condition that violate the 
safety specification would be avoided during the operation. 
Moreover, as shown in Table I, the command filter 
consists only of places and arcs, and its size is proportional 
to the number of specifications that must be satisfied. Thus, 
it is believed that the method could be further applied to 
complex military weapon systems. 
 
TABLE I 
COMPARISON FOR THE MISSILE LOADING AND LAUNCHING PROCESSES 
PN Models Places Transitions Arcs States
Unsupervised 8 8 16 16
Supervised 9 8 20 15  
 
 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
In this paper, a framework to design a command filter 
for remotely operated weapon systems with the human 
soldier in the loop has been presented. The command filter is 
systematically designed by applying the Petri net modeling. 
To demonstrate the practicability of the proposed approach, 
an application to the missile loading and launching processes 
is illustrated. According to the feedback status of the 
remotely located weapon system, the developed command 
filter ensures the required specifications by accepting or 
rejecting the human-issued commands. Moreover, as 
compared with the work in [6], human soldiers could request 
unrestricted commands in the proposed filtering framework, 
and the filter would make real-time decisions based on the 
feedback status. On other hand, it is also useful to list 
(enable) only the possible commands for the user to save 
time. In this case, the supervisory scheme [6] could be 
further integrated with the command filtering scheme. 
Even though this paper presented a simple example of 
the application, it is believed that the approach could be 
further applied to large-scale military weapon systems. 
Future work will attempt to investigate more complex 
specifications of remotely operated systems. Moreover, 
comparison of the used PN composition and the net 
operation [13] could be further investigated. 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported by the National Science 
Council, Taiwan, under Grant NSC-98-2218-E-027-014, and 
in part by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Taiwan, under 
the Embedded System Software Laboratory in Wireless 
Sensor Networks Technology Program. 
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] J. P. Hespanha, P. Naghshtabrizi, and Y. Xu, “A survey 
of recent results in networked control systems,” Proc. 
of the IEEE, vol. 95, no. 1, pp. 138-162, January 2007. 
[2] J. S. Lee and P. L. Hsu, “Design and implementation of 
the SNMP agents for remote monitoring and control 
via UML and Petri nets,” IEEE Trans. Contr. Syst. 
Tech., vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 293-302, March 2004. 
[3] J. Sales, R. Fernandez, J. M. Jimenez, R. Marin, and P. 
J. Sanz, “Telecontrol of an industrial robot arm by 
means of a multimodal user interface: a case study,” in 
Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Syst., Man, Cybern., Hague, 
Netherlands, October 2004, pp. 76-81. 
[4] J. S. Lee, M. C. Zhou, and P. L. Hsu, “An application 
of Petri nets to supervisory control for 
human-computer interactive systems,” IEEE Trans. Ind. 
Electron., vol. 52, no. 5, pp. 1220-1226, October 2005. 
[5] M. Williams, “Remotely operated weapon systems for 
more effective security,” in Proc. Institute of Nuclear 
Materials Management Workshop, Safeguards and 
Security: A New Era, Oak Ridge, TN, April 2003. 
[6] J. S. Lee and P. L. Hsu, “Remote supervisory control of 
the human-in-the-loop system by using Petri nets and 
Java,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 50, no. 3, pp. 
431-439 June 2003. 
[7] J. S. Lee, “A Petri net design of command filters for 
semi-autonomous mobile sensor networks,” IEEE 
Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 55, no. 4, pp. 1835-1841, 
April 2008. 
[8] R. Zurawski and M. C. Zhou, “Petri nets and industrial 
applications: a tutorial,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., 
vol. 41, no. 6, pp. 567-583, 1994. (Special section on 
Petri nets in manufacturing). 
[9] M. C. Zhou and M. D. Jeng, “Modeling, analysis, 
simulation, scheduling, and control of semiconductor 
manufacturing systems: A Petri net approach,” IEEE 
Trans. Semicond. Manuf., vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 333-357, 
1998. (Special section on Petri nets in semiconductor 
manufacturing). 
[10] A. Giua and F. DiCesare, “Petri net structural analysis 
for supervisory control,” IEEE Trans. Robot. Automat., 
vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 185-195, 1994. 
[11] J. Luo, W. Wu, H. Su, and J. Chu, “Supervisor 
synthesis for enforcing a class of generalized mutual 
exclusion constraints on Petri nets,” IEEE Trans. Syst., 
Man, Cybern. Part A, vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 1237-1246, 
November 2009. 
[12] M. Wooldridge and M. R. Jenkins, “Intelligent agents: 
Theory and practice,” Knowledge Engineering Review, 
vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 115–152, 1995. 
[13] J. Barros and L. Gomes, “Net model composition and 
modification by net operations: A pragmatic approach,” 
in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Industrial Informatics (INDIN 
2004), June 2004. 
2143
 2 
  
  
  
圖 1. 11/09 上午後學主持的 special session: Petri Nets and Discrete Event Systems 
 
11/10 下午 13:30，後學主持 special session「RFID Technology and Wireless Sensor 
Networks」，共有 3 篇論文發表，但其中來一篇自 Portugal 的演講者未到場，提供此討論會的照
 4 
 
圖 3. 後學組織的 2 個 special sessions: SS11 & SS12 
 
傳統的監控技術發展已經有近百年以上的歷史，加上近年來離散事件系統之監控理論的持
續進步，以 Petri nets 為基礎的控制理論已逐漸形成一套完整的系統架構。藉由參與此會議，可
更進一步了解此領域的發展，並透過與其他學者的交流討論中，去瞭解網路監控系統的發展趨
勢，相當有助益於本國科會計畫進行居家感測網路之自助式監控系統研發。 
此外，個人專長之外的主題，我仍藉此會議積極參與討論，對於其他領域也有更進一步的
認識與體會，甚至未來可嘗試著從事跨領域的研究。另一方面，藉由大會提供的 coffee breaks
與 banquet 社交機會，與來自世界各國的專家學者交流討論，個人實感收穫良多。 
 
三、建議 
後學提出淺見如下： 
1. 建議國內舉行大規模的 IEEE 國際相關會議，並邀請相關領域的知名專家學者與會，不但
能整合國內從事相關研究的資源，也可以與國外的研究相交流，提升國內研究等級與國
際學術地位。 
2. 此外，在國內工業電子與監控應用產業上，可另外舉辦學術與產業合作交流的研討會，
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/10/21
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 居家感測網路之自助式監控系統研發(I)
計畫主持人: 李俊賢
計畫編號: 98-2218-E-027-014- 學門領域: 其他控制科技 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 感測網路佈建系統及感測網路佈建方法
(英文) System and Method for Sensor Network Deployment
成果歸屬機構
國立臺北科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
李俊賢
技術說明
(中文) 本專利為一個利用佈建輔助裝置(token device)來協助使用者佈建居家感測網路
之系統、方法與裝置。其特徵在於佈建階段時，利用token來儲存使用者設定的
感測網路參數，以輔助感測網路的正確形成(network formation)。同時網路形
成過程可用參數中的安全鑰匙對封包進行加密，提供一個具安全性的節點加入過
程(secure join)。此外，在佈建後的正常操作中，token可定期進行控制中心內
感測網路參數之即時備份，可供系統失常時恢復(system recovery)之用。
(英文) This patent has proposed using a token device to assist home users in the installation and 
deployment of home sensor networks. At the deployment stage, the user employs the 
token to store the network configuration parameters so as to construct a correct network 
formation in the subsequent stages. During the network formation, the security keys can 
be used to encrypting transmitted packets to provide a secure join process. Moreover, 
during the normal operations after the deployment, the token can be used to real-timely 
backup the network configuration parameters within the control center, and provide 
system recovery functions.
產業別 資訊服務業；建築物公共安全檢查業
技術/產品應用範圍 居家安全、環境監控等相關產業
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
可應用之產品: 居家保全/照護系統、社區環境監控系統 
可能技轉廠商: 中興保全、新光保全
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
主持人於獲頒 2010 IEEE Industrial Electronics Society (IES) Early 
Career Award。 
註：此獎於 2006年起設置，旨在鼓勵青年學者在工業電子相關領域的研究，且
每年僅 1位得獎者。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
