different base stations to continually enjoy surfing 
the internet at high speed, in a way that based 
stations cooperate with the end user. We will 
investigate handover techniques between base 
stations. The difficulty of such techniques lies on 
how to predict the future moving direction of the end 
user, especially at high moving speed. 
英文關鍵詞： Next-Generation Mobile Communication Networks, 
Handover, Movement Predictions, Femtocells, 
Coordinated Transmission. 
 
2換手演算法一直是大家所注重的研究方向。常見的換手方法，如Power
Budget Handover演算法[4]，也就是所謂的LTE Hard Handover演算法，是一個基
本但卻很有效率的方法。更明確說明，它包含了兩個重要的參數：Handover
Margin(HOM)及Time to Trigger(TTT)計時器。其中，HOM是一個常數，代表的
是目標基地台和原本服務基地台的訊號強度差的一個Threshold，它可以確保使用
者能夠換手到一個適當的目標基地台；而TTT則代表滿足HOM條件的一個時間
區間，用以限制在某個時間區間內換手的動作，也就是換手只會在滿足TTT的條
件後才會發生。同時使用HOM和TTT這兩種機制將可降低不必要的換手次數，
也就是避免所謂的乒乓效應，該效應就是在短時間內，使用者從原本服務的基地
台換手到某個基地台，之後又換手到原本的基地台，這種情形必然增加所需要的
訊號資源及傳輸的延遲，同時又減少系統的吞吐量。然而，Power Budget Handover
演算法只會選擇有最高接收強度的基地台做為換手的目標，這對於高速度行進中
的使用者而言，換手的頻率必然大幅增加，且換手失敗的機會也會相對變大，因
而產生過多的換手次數發生，這對於即時服務的移動使用者而言，由於不斷的換
手所造成的長時間中斷是無法忍受的。
再者，Integrator Handover演算法是在2008年被提出來的[5]，其利用觸發門
檻值(Triggering Threshold)和遺忘因子(Forgetting Factor)進行換手的決策。其中，
該演算法大致的概念就是整合當前時間點和上個時間點的目標和原本基地台所
接收到的訊號強度的差值，並利用遺忘因子α去做比例的調整，也就是將上個時
間點和目前時間點的接收訊號強度差值根據α進行整合。當整合過的接收訊號強
度差值大於某個門檻值時則立刻決定換手。然而，不管遺忘因子α如何去做調整，
當滿足換手的條件時，Integrator Handover演算法就會立刻做出換手的決定，因
此也將會造成許多不必要的換手情況或是乒乓效應發生。
最後，在研究[6]中，作者根據路徑流失模型的定義，提出了Moving State
Indicator (MSI)的概念，並利用MSI值的大小來瞭解行動用戶相對於基地台之移動
行為。更明確說明，假設行動用戶的移動狀態是直線，它與基地台之間的關係可
用最短距離點來分為兩個階段。其中，，當行動用戶往最短距離點的方向移動時，
也就是接收訊號強度會變強，這時MSI值會是負值；相反的，當行動用戶遠離最
短距離點時，接收訊號強度會愈來愈弱，這時的MSI值則會變為正值。此外，對
於同一個行動用戶而言，在其行進路線中的兩個基地台若路線的最短距離不同，
有較近最短距離的那個基地台，它的MSI值會比有較遠最短距離的那個基地台來
的相對較大。研究[6]所提出的演算法變是根據MSI值來決定合適的目標基的台。
四、研究辦法：
只要行動裝置有移動的行為，都會有產生換手的可能性。其實不管什麼換手
方法或多或少都會有乒乓效應，而且通常都是在基地台邊緣發生。在很多的論文
裡，演算法都是經由接收訊號強度去衡量何時需要換手，並且盡量將換手的時間
點延後，例如Power Budget Handover演算法，其訂定一個Threshold來避免產生乒
4台是否為同一個，若是同一個則換手到這個基地台；若不是則換手到有較高MSI
值的那一個，因為在高速下我們要找出有最短距離的基地台做為換手的目標，與
基地台之間的距離愈短，代表使用者會停留在此基地台覆蓋範圍的時間會更久，
所以所需要的換手發生情況也會變少。
五、結果與討論：
在本研究計畫中，我們針對LTE網路系統提出了一種基於使用者移動性的換
手演算法，其同時考慮到使用者移動的速度及方向來作為換手決策的判斷，所以
我們的方法可以比較精確的找到合適的基地台，以減少換手次數。更明確說明，
從移動的方向來看，主要是要排除遠離中的基地台作為目標的可能性，避免短時
間後又要執行換手動作的情況；而就使用者移動的速度而言，在高速的情形下，
找出會有較短最近距離點的基地台，便可讓使用者能夠換手到可能會停留最長時
間的基地台。最後，經由網路模擬器進行分析觀察換手的效率，證實本文所提出
的方法可以減少不必要的換手情況的發生，讓系統能夠在有效的資源下，提供每
位使用者更好的服務。
參考文獻：
[1] 3GPP, http://www.3gpp.org/, June 2012.
[2] H. Zhang, X. Wen, B. Wang, W. Zheng, and Y. Sun, “A Novel Handover 
Mechanism between Femtocel and Macrocel for LTE based Networks,” Proc. 2nd
Int’l Conf. Communication Software and Networks, pp 228-231, 2010.
[3] Khitem Ben Ali, Faouzi Zarai and Lotfi Kamoun, "Reducing handoff dropping
probability in 3GPP LTE Network", Communications and Networking (ComNet),
2010 Second International Conference, January 2011.
[4] Cheng-Chung Lin, Kumbesan Sandrasegaran, Huda Adibah Mohd Ramli, and
Riyaj Basukala, "Optimized Performance Evaluation of LTE Hard Handover
Algorithm with Average RSRP Constraint", International Journal of Wireless &
Mobile Networks (IJWMN), Vol. 3, No. 2, April 2011.
[5] Naizheng Zheng and Jeroen Wigard, "On the Performance of Integrator Handover
Algorithm in LTE Networks", IEEE 68th Vehicular Technology Conf., Sept. 2008.
[6] Po-Hsuan Tseng, and Kai-Ten Feng, "A Predictive Movement Based Handover
Algorithm for IEEE 802.16e Broadband Wireless Networks", Proceedings of IEEE
Wireless Communication and Networking Conference (WCNC 2008), March 2008.
[7] Qian-bin Chen, Yu Liu, Lun Tang and Rong Chai, "Handover Algorithm Based on
Movement State for Cellular Relaying Networks", 2010 2nd Int’l Conference on
Future Computer Communication, May 2010.
[8] Dongwook Kim, Mrinalini Sawhney, Hanjin Lee, Hyunsoo Yoon and Namgi Kim,
1國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告
日期：2012年 10月 5日
一、參加會議經過
二 O一二年智慧電網系統國際研討會(ICSGS 2012)是在 2012年 7月 24日至 7月 26日於馬來
西亞的吉隆坡所舉行。這是一個一年一度的大型國際會議，與會專家學者包含了美國、日本、法
國、瑞典、韓國、英國、加拿大、葡萄牙、西班牙、瑞士、香港、大陸、義大利以及中華民國等
十幾個國家。大家共同討論有關智慧電網系統的研究主題與方向，並且交換研究心得。Keynote
Speech 與發表的論文均相當先進，對國內學術研究有很大的幫助。本人在這會議上口頭報告發表
一篇論文。
本人 7/21 自行從桃園機場搭機前往馬來西亞，經過大約四個半小時的飛行時間即抵達馬來西
亞。由於提早出發的緣故，使我可以在到達住宿飯店後，還有相當充足的時間休息調整體力並準
備投影片以準備口頭報告。同時，我也抽空到吉隆坡的市區參觀一些人文景點以及用餐，在吉隆
坡的市區可以看見相當多不同於台灣的生活習慣，像是餐點的食材、衣服的穿著等，讓我獲益良
多。接著，在會議開始後，本人選擇較一些較有興趣且和我的研究領域較相近的 Session來聆聽其
他優秀學者的論文發表。同時，在 7/26 那天，本人口頭發表論文的過程中，除了回答數位提問者
的問題之外，更有學者表示對於本人的研究領域感到相當的有興趣，並希望留下聯絡方式以便日
後能有機會更進一步地進行學術交流，這更是一個相當難得的經驗。此外，大會所準備的會議論
文集則是含有 ISBN編號，這樣子除了能夠在網路上得到該次研究會議的論文資訊之外，也能夠以
購買實體書本的方式得到論文相關資訊，相信這對學術論文的國際化也是相當地有幫助。7/26 參
與完相關的會議演講及學術討會後，則與各國專家學家道別並約下次會議再聚，之後便前往機場
計畫編號 NSC 100–2221–E–005–038
計畫名稱 次世代行動通訊網路關鍵技術研發及應用-子計畫二：次世代行動通訊
網路使用者端換手技術研究(I)
出國人員
姓名
蔡智強
服務機構
及職稱
國立中興大學電機工程系副教授
會議時間
2012年 7月 24日
至 2012年 7月 26
日
會議地點 馬來西亞吉隆坡
會議名稱
(中文)二０一二智慧電網系統國際研討會
(英文) 2012 International Conference on Smart Grid Systems (ICSGS
2012)
發表論文
題目
An Efficient Leader Election Algorithm of Performance-Related
Characteristics for Dynamic Networks
The 2012 International Conference on Smart Grid Systems (ICSGS 2012) 
 
- 1 - 
Notification of Acceptance of the ICSGS 2012 
July 24-26, 2012, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
http://www.icsgs.org/  
   
      
Dear Che-Cheng Chang and Jichiang Tsai, 
Paper ID : J009         
Paper Title : An Efficient Leader Election Algorithm of Performance-Related Characteristics for Dynamic 
Networks 
 
Congratulations! The review processes for submission of the 2012 International Conference on Smart Grid 
Systems (ICSGS 2012) has been completed. The conference received submissions from nearly 15 different 
countries and regions, which were reviewed by international experts, and about 100 papers have been selected 
for presentation and publication. Based on the recommendations of the reviewers and the Technical Program 
Committees, we are pleased to inform you that your paper identified above has been accepted for publication 
and oral presentation. You are cordially invited to present the paper orally at ICSGS 2012 to be held during July 
24-26, 2012, in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
The ICSGS 2012 is co-sponsored by IACSIT and Singapore Institute of Electronics. All accepted papers of ICSGS 
2012 will be published in the IPCSIT (ISSN: 2010-460X) as one volume, and will be included in the Engineering 
& Technology Digital Library, and indexed by EBSCO, CNKI (中国知网), WorldCat, Google Scholar, and sent to be 
reviewed by Ei Compendex and ISI Proceedings. Selected papers will be recommended to be published in the 
citation Journals. 
(Important) So in order to the register the conference and have your paper included 
in the proceeding successfully, you must finish following SIX steps. 
1. Revise your paper according to the Review Comments in the attachment carefully. 
2. Format your paper according to the Template carefully.  
http://www.icsgs.org/IPCSIT.template.doc (DOC Format)  
3. Download and complete the Registration Form. 
http://www.icsgs.org/reg.doc (English) 
4. Finish the payment of Registration fee by Credit Card. (The detailed information can be found in the 
Registration form) 
http://www.icsgs.org/reg.doc (English) 
An Efficient Leader Election Algorithm of Performance-Related 
Characteristics for Dynamic Networks 
Che-Cheng Chang 1,a and Jichiang Tsai 1,b + 
1 Department of Electrical Engineering 
National Chung-Hsing University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
Abstract. The core of a smart grid is characterized by two-way flow of power in electrical networks as 
well as information in communication networks. Hence, such a new technical issue can benefit from some 
existing techniques related to wireless communication and fault tolerant distributed computing. Among the 
foregoing applications, leader election is a very critical problem. Solving the leader election problem in static 
networks is easier than in dynamic networks because dynamic behavior of processes must be considered in 
the latter. In particular, a simple way to solving this problem in dynamic networks is attaching a synchronous 
clock to each process. But doing so violates the assumption of asynchrony. Moreover, a leader had better be a 
process with the best performance-related characteristic among all nodes within a connected component. In 
this paper, we present an efficient leader election algorithm with regard to performance-related characteristics 
for dynamic networks, without any synchronous clock assumption. 
Keywords: leader election, dynamic networks, asynchronous, broadcast, smart grid systems. 
1. Introduction 
Due to the growing demand for electric power and concerns about the environment impacts, currently 
power distribution networks are increasingly developing toward smart grids [1], the core of which is 
characterized by two-way flow of power in electrical networks and information in communication networks 
[2]. Particularly, the characteristics of the power line channel vary geographically. Hence, it is not safe to 
assume that a technology that works well in one area will work as well in another. Moreover, advanced 
wireless systems can offer the benefits of inexpensive products, rapid deployment, and low cost installation 
that wired technologies cannot provide [3]. Obviously, such wireless technical issues for smart grids can 
benefit from some existing techniques of wireless communication and fault tolerant distributed computing. 
Leader election is a fundamental building block for many applications, such as group communication 
services, key distribution and management, routing coordination, sensor coordination, general control, and so 
on. Obviously, solving the leader election problem in static networks is easier than in dynamic networks 
because we have to consider the dynamic behavior of processes in the latter networks. Therefore, electing a 
new leader will constantly occur in such a network. This means that the traditional solution for static 
networks is not suitable for dynamic networks. 
In the literature, a simple way to solving the leader election problem in dynamic networks is to attach a 
synchronous clock to each process in the system. For example, in [4], the authors used the concept of 
synchronous clock to indicate which node has the highest priority to be the current leader. Recently, in [5], 
the authors improved the algorithm proposed in [4] in a manner that the resultant convergence time of the 
new algorithm is less than the original algorithm. However, attaching a synchronous clock obviously violates 
the assumption of asynchronous systems. 
On the other hand, in [6], the authors considered that the elected leader should be the most-valued 
process from among all the processes within the connected component it resides, where the value of a 
2012 International Conference on Smart Grid Systems (ICSGS 2012)
IPCSIT vol. XX (2012) © (2012) IACSIT Press, Singapore
desirable than simply electing a leader randomly. Accordingly, the specification of the leader election 
problem for dynamic networks is given below: 
Definition 3: The specification of the leader election problem for dynamic networks is: 
1) For every connected component, there is a unique eventual leader. 
2) The eventual leader of a connect component is the highest priority node among all the nodes within 
the component, where the priority of a node is based on the considered performance-related characteristic, 
using the node ID to break ties among nodes with the same value. 
Fig. 1: (a) A topology contains two connected two components; (b) The topology after some nodes in (a) moves 
3. The Leader Election Concept and Algorithm 
In this section, we start to present our algorithm for solving the leader election problem. Foremost, the 
core property of our algorithm is that in a connected component, if every process broadcasts its neighbor set 
and any received neighbor set from another process, every process can finally know the existence of all other 
processes in the same component. Therefore, we know that a process can know all its participants by all 
processes broadcasting their neighbor sets as well as any received neighbor sets. Finally, all processes will 
choose the same process as their leader, i.e. the one with the best performance-related characteristic among 
all processes in the component. 
Obviously, the values of the considered performance-related characteristic of any two nodes may not be 
distinct. For example, in Figure 1(a), the value of the considered performance-related characteristic of each 
process is shown in the bracket in the corresponding node. We can see that p4 and p7 in Figure 1(a) have the 
same value. If such a scenario happens, we use the Node ID of these nodes to break the tie. Particularly, the 
node with the smallest ID will be considered. For instance, since p4 and p7 in Figure 1(a) have the same 
performance-related characteristic value, we will choose p4 as the highest priority node in this component. 
In [6], the authors used several distinct cases to explain the behavior of dynamic networks. However, 
these cases cannot cover all possible behavior of dynamic networks due to rapid node mobility. By using the 
concept shown above, our algorithm can solve such an issue. Furthermore, the algorithm in [6] adopted the 
concept of “growing and shrinking” to discover all processes in the same component. Then any process uses 
the collective information to elect the leader and broadcasts its decision to all nodes in the same component. 
Obviously, such a concept requires that messages traverse a component three times for an election, i.e. 
growing, shrinking and broadcasting the decision about the leader. Yet, our concept only needs that any 
message from each node traverses a component one time for electing the leader. Particularly, upon receiving 
messages from all other processes in the same component, a process can immediately find the process with 
the best performance-related characteristic among all its participants. 
In light of the idea introduced in the above, we further present the leader-election algorithm for dynamic 
networks. In particular, unlike static networks, the knowledge of a node in dynamic networks may be 
decreasing. Hence, instead of adopting the assumption of synchronous clocks, we use the following concept 
of routing history to deal with such a critical situation. 
Definition 4: The routing history of a message contains all processes by which the message is traversed. 
4. Conclusions 
In this paper, we have explored the problem of leader election in dynamic networks, where not only the 
topology will change but also processes may crash. Moreover, we use the routing history of messages to deal 
with the dynamic behavior of networks instead of adopting the synchronous clock assumption. Doing so 
makes the leader election problem easier to solve in practice. Particularly, the elected leader is the one with 
the best performance-related characteristic among all nodes within the same connected component. 
Therefore, our result can be applied to smart grid systems to improve the efficiency of energy use. 
Fig. 2: The algorithm for dealing with the leader election problem in dynamic networks. 
5. Acknowledgements 
This work was supported by the National Science Council, Taiwan, ROC, under Grant NSC 100–2221–
E–005–038. 
6. References 
[1] A. Maneerung, S. Sittichivapak, and K. Hongesombut, “Application of Power Line Communication with OFDM 
to Smart Grid Systems,” Proc. 8th Int’l Conf. Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery (FSKD), pp. 2239–2244, 
2011. 
[2] P. P. Parikh, M. G. Kanabar, T. S. Sidhu, “Opportunities and Challenges of Wireless Communication 
Technologies for Smart Grid Applications,” IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting, pp. 1–7, 2010. 
[3] F. Cleveland, “Use of Wireless Data Communications in Power System Operations,” IEEE Power Systems 
Conference and Exposition, pp. 631–640, 2006. 
[4] N. Malpani, J. Welch and N. Vaidya, “Leader Election Algorithms for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks,” Proc. 4th Int’l 
Workshop on Discrete Algorithms and Methods for Mobile Computing and Communications, Boston, MA, 
August 2000. 
[5] A. Derhab and N. Badache, “A Self-Stabilizing Leader Election Algorithm in Highly Dynamic Ad Hoc Mobile 
Networks,” IEEE Trans. Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 19, no. 7, JULY 2008. 
[6] S. Vasudevan, J. Kurose, D. Towsley, “Design and Analysis of a Leader Election Algorithm for Mobile Ad Hoc 
Networks,” IEEE Proc. 12th Int’l Conf. Network Protocols, pp. 350-360, Oct. 2004. 
[7] N. Lynch, Distributed Algorithms, Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, 1996. 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蔡智強 計畫編號：100-2221-E-005-038- 
計畫名稱：次世代行動通訊網路關鍵技術研發及應用--子計畫二：次世代行動通訊網路使用者端換手
技術研究(I) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 2 2 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
