 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 附件二 
█ 正在申請專利  █可技術移轉                                      日期： 年 月 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：薄膜式高靈敏度光纖光柵氫氣感測器的研製 
計畫主持人：劉 文 豐 
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－035－106－ 學門領域：光電 
技術/創作名稱 光纖光柵氫氣感測器 
發明人/創作人 劉文豐、田春林 
中文： 
    經由光纖鍍膜技術將鈀膜鍍在側面拋光光纖光柵的拋光面上，完
成氫氣光纖感測頭。此感測頭主要的感測機制是鈀膜與氫氣產生價鍵
結合的化學反應使靶膜膨脹，因晶格組態改變導致鈀膜之折射率發生
變化，折射率變化造成光纖光柵中心波長的偏移，偏移量與氫氣的濃
度成正比，藉由量測光柵中心波長偏移大小我們可以獲得氫氣濃度之
檢測。 
 技術說明 
英文： By means of fiber-coated thin-film technique, the Pd thin-film can 
be coated on the polished-side surface of a fiber Bragg grating for 
achieving a fiber sensing hydrogen head. The sensing mechanism of this 
device is based on that the coating material Pd can interact with hydrogen 
to cause the Pd film to be swelled and then to induce the index change. 
The Bragg wavelength shift of a grating is proportional to the thin-film 
index change. Thus, the concentration of hydrogen gas can be obtained 
from the value of Bragg wavelength shift. 
可利用之產業 
及可開發之產品 
可應用於光纖感測系統上。 
技術特點 
光纖具有高頻寬、低損耗、高穩定性和不受電磁干擾能力等優點。在
本質式之光纖感測系統中，更具備了體細質輕、耐高溫和抗腐蝕等特
性，故可將光纖感測頭延伸至複雜危險的區域內來進行化學參數量
測。 
 
推廣及運用的價值 
利用相位光罩技術寫製光纖光柵，使整個製程有較佳之重複率及可控
制性，對於未來商品化之可行性，有相當的潛力可應用於感測其他氣
體，另外對於未來商品化之可行性高。 
 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
operation normally used in an FBG sensing device is to monitor the wavelength shift of returned 
Bragg signal against any change in physical parameter being measured. The FBG sensors have 
advantageous features as compared to conventional sensors. They have small size, low weight, 
immunity to electromagnetic interference, and distributed sensing possibilities. We proposed a 
novel hydrogen sensing device by using side-polished FBG coated with a palladium film. The 
technique of side-polished fiber is used for removing the fiber side-cladding to make the core to 
be exposed for coating a sensing film to detect the Bragg wavelength shift caused by the 
film-index change due to the action of the film with hydrogen. Side-polished fibers have an 
interesting structure in which the cladding is laterally polished till small distance to the core that 
can increase sensitivity of fiber sensors. The optical FBG polished into the core exhibits an 
interesting property. Because of the asymmetric structure of the side-polished FBG, an output 
optical power loss for the reflection or transmission spectra could be observed by an optical 
spectrum analyzer (OSA). In this study, we present the experimental results obtained when the 
sensing device was exposed to various hydrogen concentrations at a fixed temperature.  The 
proposed sensor containing a side-polished fiber Bragg grating with the Pd coating could be used 
for a hydrogen sensor.  
 
2. Basic sensing principles 
A fiber Bragg grating consists of a periodic modulation of the refractive index in the core of a 
single-mode optical fiber. When the Bragg condition is satisfied, the contributions of reflected 
light from each grating plane add constructively in the backward direction to form a 
back-reflected peak with a center wavelength defined by the grating parameters. The first-order 
Bragg condition is given by  
                               Λ=                                    (1)            effB n2λ
where the Bragg wavelength,
Bλ , is the center wavelength of the input light that will be 
back-reflected from the Bragg grating, and neff is the effective index of the fiber core and Λ is the 
period of fiber Bragg grating.  
The shift of reflective Bragg wavelength can be derived as 
                            
,Λ
∆Λ+∆=∆ effB nλ                               (2)              
effB nλwhere ∆λB is the Bragg wavelength’s shift, ∆ neff is the variation of the effective index of the fiber 
core and ∆Λ is the period change of fiber Bragg grating. When the sensing device is exposed to 
hydrogen, the grating period of the fiber is increased slightly due to the expansion of the 
palladium layer. For this device, the lateral strain in the side-polished fiber grating will cause the 
shift of Bragg wavelength, in which the index change (∆neff) will dominate the parameters 
comparing with the grating period change (∆Λ). Therefore, the grating period variation (∆Λ) can 
be neglected. The shift of Bragg wavelength ∆λB can be calculated by the induced birefringence, 
and the shift of Bragg wavelength in Eq. (2) can be expressed simply as 
                               Λ∆≅∆ effB n2λ                                  
(3) 
Eq. (3) can be used to predict the peak shift of FBG under a lateral strain. As the fiber cladding is 
polished to the core, the effective index of the fiber core will be varied and result in the shift of 
reflected Bragg wavelength and bandwidth expansion. 
When the FBG is coated with Pd thin film, the stress associated with the hydrogen 
absorption in the film can be measured by monitoring the reflection or transmission spectra of the 
FBG. As the hydrogen is absorbed by the Pd film, it expands because hydrogen absorption 
converts Pd to PdHx which has a lower density and larger volume [8]. The expansion of the 
hydride will stretch the fiber gratings in radial direction and change its effective index. From 
measuring the amount of Bragg wavelength shift by using an OSA, the hydrogen gas 
concentrations can be determined. The resolution of the OSA is set to 0.01nm, in order to obtain 
experimental results of high quality. 
References 
[1] I. Lundström, S. Shivaraman, C. Svensson, L. Lundkvist, Appl. Phys. Lett. 26 (1975) 55. 
[2] C. Christofides, A. Mandelis, J. Appl. Phys. 68 (1990) R1. 
[3] N. Miura, T. Harada, Y. Shimizu, N. Yamazoe,  Sensor Actuators B  1 (1990) 125. 
[4] R.C. Hughes and W. K. Schubert, J. Appl. Phys. 71  (1992) 542. 
[5] M.A. Butler,  J. Appl. Phys. 45 (1984) 1007 
[6] M.A. Butler, D.S. Ginley,  J. Appl. Phys. 64 (1988) 3706. 
[7] M.A. Butler, J. Electrochem. Soc. 138  (1991) L46. 
[8] B. Sutapun, M. Tabib-Azar, A. Kazemi, Sensors and Actuators B  60 (1999) 27. 
[9] D. Zalvidea, A. Díez, J.L. Cruz, M.V. Andrés, Electron. Lett. 40 (2004) 301. 
[10] M. Aleixandre, P. Corredera, , M.L. Hernanz , J. Gutierrez-Monrea,  Sensors and Actuators 
B 107 (2005) 113. 
[11] K. O. Hill, Y. Fujii, D.C. Johnson, B. S. Kawasaki,  Appl. Phys. Lett.  32 (1978) 647. 
[12] K. O. Hill, G. Meltz,  J. Lightwave Technol. 15 (1997) 1263. 
[13] A. D. Kersey, M.A. Davis, H. J. Patrick, M. LeBlance, K. P. Koo, C.G. Askins, M. A. 
Putnam, E. J. Friebele,  J. Lightwave Technol. 15 (1997) 1442. 
[14] S.M. Tseng, C.L. Chen, Appl. Opt. 31 (1992) 3438. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Schematic diagram of a hydrogen sensing device. 
 
 
 
1543 1544 1545 1546 1547
-100
-90
-80
-70
-60
-50
-40
In
te
ns
ity
 (d
B
m
)
WaveLength (nm)
FBG  reflection spectrum
fiber thicness: 62.9µm
 Pd-coated  FBG without H2 
 Pd-coated FBG with H2 
 
 
Fig. 4. The comparison of Pd-coated FBG reflection spectra between with and without exposing 
in hydrogen concentrations. 
 
 
Fig. 5 The curve of wavelength shift versus hydrogen concentration. 
 
