英文關鍵詞： Silicon nanopore, Diffusivity measurement, 
Diffusivity control 
 
 1
 
中文摘要 
本研究以陽極氧化結合背部濕蝕刻方式
製作高深寬比之單奈米孔矽基薄膜，進行擴
散係數量測。由於單奈米孔矽基薄膜是仿效
場效電晶體，可施加不同閘極偏壓於矽基薄
膜上來控制擴散係數；當施加正偏壓時由於
電雙層表面為負離子，當鉀離子通過奈米通
道時會被電雙層吸引，導致擴散係數下降，
當施加負偏壓時，電雙層表面則是正離子，
使得鉀離子通過奈米通道時，而被靜電斥力
侷限於孔洞中央，使通道間之布朗運動效應
減少，讓離子能夠更有效通過奈米孔洞，導
致擴散係數上升。由於奈米孔洞中之物質為
溶液，而閘極亦透過半導體n-type材料與溶液
連 結 ， 故 此 裝 置 或 可 稱 Metal- 
Semiconductor-Solution Field Effect Transistor 
(MSSFET)。若工作在linear region，則擴散係
數大致與閘極偏壓相關，亦即若初始濃度差
夠大則奈米孔洞之擴散係數可以閘極偏線性
控制。 
關鍵詞：矽基奈米孔洞、擴散係數量測、擴
散係數控制 
 
Abstract 
In this study, we first propose a simple yet 
novel method to measure the diffusion 
coefficient of ions through a nanochannel. 
Back-side track etching is used for the 
fabrication of a nanochannel on an n-type 
silicon substrate. A metal-oxide semiconductor 
field-effect transistor (MOSFET) like device 
named the metal-semiconductor-solution 
field-effect transistor (MSSFET) is 
implemented to control the ion diffusion 
current. When a negative gate voltage is 
applied, positive ions that travel along the 
nanochannel are confined to the central zone of 
the nanochannel allowing the radial Brownian 
movements to be reduced. The effect is 
equivalent to an increase of the diffusion 
coefficient. However, a positive gate voltage 
can produce an opposite Zeta potential on the 
nanochannel surface. The cations in the 
nanochannel are dragged to the channel surface. 
This condition can be regarded as a decrease of 
the diffusion coefficient. Experimental results 
illustrate that the transfer characteristics of the 
MSSFET are similar to those of a p-channel 
depletion-type MOSFET. The ion diffusion 
coefficient in a nanochannel can be controlled 
when the initial ion concentration difference 
across a nanochannel is larger than a certain 
threshold. 
Keywords: Silicon nanopore, Diffusivity 
measurement, Diffusivity control 
 
1. Introduction 
Most of the physiological reactions of a 
cell are due to small variations in the ambient 
environment. The small variations of the 
ambient environment are carried out in terms of 
the migration of ions through the ion channels 
of the cell membrane. The migration of calcium 
ions, potassium ions, and sodium ions are 
well-known examples (Zhang et al. 2011) 
These slight molecular variations induce the 
synthesis of corresponding macromolecules 
such as proteins which occur to counter the 
variations. The in-vivo detection of 
physiological reaction induced molecular 
variations can provide a very useful tool for 
better understanding of physiological reactions. 
Hence, nanopore research has been pushed 
forward by recent progress in 
nanobiotechnology (Rassaei et al. 2011; Lan et 
al. 2011; Schibel et al. 2011). Nanopore 
applications in biotechnology include 
ion-channel biosensors (Zhang et al. 2011; 
White et al. 2007), DNA sequencing and 
separation (Clarke et al. 2009; Shendure and Ji 
 3
across the membrane can be estimated by 
2
1 2
1
ln( )T cV V V
q c
                 (3) (3) 
where Vi denotes the electrical potential in the 
ith vessel; q is the magnitude of the electronic 
charge and is 1.610-19 C; T is the absolute 
temperature;  is the Boltzman constant.  
 
 
Figure 1. Illustration of the constant gradient 
approximation (CGA) 
 
In general, both the concentration gradient 
and the osmosis effect influence the behavior of 
ions inside the nanochannel (Schoch et al. 2005; 
Smalley et al. 2000). The current through the 
membrane, which is caused by the diffusion of 
the ions, which is affected by both the 
concentration gradient and osmosis effect can 
be described as 
1 2 1 2 1ln( / ) ( )  = ( )c k c c c ci jAkq AkD q
l l
     (4)
 (4) 
where k is the valence of the ions. The first 
item represents the electric osmosis induced 
current, the second item denotes the ion 
diffusion induced current. 
Since the conductance of an electrolyte is 
proportional to its ionic concentration 
(Bozhikov et al. 2003), the ionic concentration 
can be estimated using Eq. (5), where Rs 
denotes the resistance of the electrolyte and M 
is the Moore conductance of the electrolyte. 
The resistance of the electrolyte can be 
measured by an electrochemical analyzer. 
1
s
M s
c
R
  .                      (5)
Substituting Eq. (5) into Eq. (4), the diffusion 
coefficient can be estimated based on the 
following formula: 
-1
1 2
2 1
1
ln( / ) ( )M k R RD K K
Aqk R
i l     
    
   
(6)
 where R1 and R2 denote the electrolyte 
resistance in Vessel1 and Vessel2, respectively; 
K1 and K2 are the relative conductance. 
Assuming the diffusivity in a nanochannel is 
constant, the difference in the ratio of 
conductance between Vessel1 and Vessel2 at 
time t and 0 (K=K1(t)-K2(t)) can be described 
by substituting Eq. (6) into Eq. (2). 
-1
1 2
2 1
1 2 1
( ) 1 1 ln( / )exp( ( ) ( ) )
(0)
MK t i k R Rt D K K
K k v v R
          
(7)
 
The above equation can be rewritten as, 
-1
1 2
2 1
1 2 1
( ) 1 1 ln( / )ln( ) ( ) ( )
(0)
MK t i k R Rt q K K
K k v v R
          
(8)
The Moore conductance of the electrolyte can 
thus be estimated by Eq. (9) 
-11 2
2 1
1 1 2
ln( / ) 1 1 ln( ( ) / (0))( ) ( )M
k k R R K t Kq K K
i R v v t
             
(9)
  
Substituting Eq. (9) into Eq. (6), the calculation 
of diffusion coefficient can be simplified to 
1 2
1 ln( ( ) / (0))
(1/ 1/ )
l K t KD
A v v t
      (10)
 
 
Equation (10) indicates that the diffusion 
coefficient of a nanochannel with known 
cross-sectional area and length can be 
estimated through the slope of the plot of the 
 5
and vessel2 for diffusion coefficient 
measurement and control experiments. 
 
 
Figure 3. Electrochemical bath that could hold 
a silicon thin film to separate the vessels with 
different ion concentrations 
 
2.3 Fabrication of a silicon nanopore 
(1) Fabrication procedure 
The procedure for the etching process for 
the fabrication of a silicon nanopore is 
schematically illustrated in Figure 4. The 
procedure includes Si3N4 deposition, 
photolithography, inductive coupled plasma 
(ICP) dry-etching, and end-point detecting 
anodic-etching. The process is described in 
detail described below. 
 
(a)
Si Si3N4 Photoresist Au
(b) (c)
(d) (e) (f)
(g) (h) (i)
(j) (k) (l)
 
Figure 4. Silicon nanopore fabrication process 
 
(a) Si3N4 hard mask layer deposition 
A 380 μm thick <100> n-type wafer (Wafer 
Works Corp, Taiwan) is used for the silicon 
nanopore fabrication. A Si3N4 layer is deposited 
on both sides of the silicon wafer to confine the 
etching window of the succeeding anodic 
etching and back side wet etching. The Si3N4 
layers are deposited using the low pressure 
chemical vapor deposition (LPCVD) method so 
that a thicker film (10,000 Å) with less residual 
stress can be produced. The process is 
conducted at 850 C under a pressure of 180 
mtorr with NH3 and SiH2Cl2 being the reaction 
gases. 
(b)-(c) Topside photoresist patterning 
An etching window for dry etching on the 
topside of the Si3N4 deposited wafer is defined 
using the conventional photolithography 
process. The details of the process are listed 
below. 
Successively spin coat two layers of positive 
photoresist (AZ-1518) as the protective layer 
for the following dry etching process. The spin 
coating parameters are as follows: speed = 500 
rpm, duration = 5 sec; and speed = 1500 rpm, 
duration = 20 sec. The remaining steps are as 
follows: soft bake at 100 C for 2 min; expose 
(OAI 500 aligner) using a mask of a =5 m 
window for 30 sec; and develop (AZ-326 MIF) 
for 30 sec; hard bake at 120 C for 10 min. 
(d) Topside Si3N4 film patterning 
Dry etching by ICP-RIE (Cirie-100) is 
employed to pattern the wet anodic etching 
window on the Si3N4 film. The process is 
conducted using a 500 W RF power under 
pressure of 5 mtorr with a 45 sccm CF4 being 
the reaction gas lasting for 400 sec. 
(e) Photoresist removal 
 7
 
Figure 7. Experimental apparatus for anodic 
etching 
 
(4) Etcher for anodic etching 
In general, hydrofluoric acid (HF) is the 
major content in an etching solution for the 
anodic etching of a silicon substrate. The 
concentration of HF in an etching solution 
varies with different applications. However, an 
etcher containing only HF cannot wet the pore 
surface evenly during downward etching due to 
the high surface tension of HF. Hence lateral 
etching using HF generates a rough and uneven 
pore surface. This surface tension problem can 
be solved by either adding surfactants to reduce 
the surface tension (Zhang et al. 1989) or 
enhancing the conductivity of the solution 
(Zhang 1991). Surfactants such as ethyl alcohol 
(EtOH), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), 
tetrabutylammonium perchlorate (TBAP), and 
N-dimethylformamide (DMF) are commonly 
used. EtOH is able to soften the surface tension 
of the etcher so the pore surface can be better 
wetted to reduce the lateral etching problem. 
Both DMSO and DMF are polar aprotic 
solvents that can be used to improve the 
downward diffusion ability of fluorine ions 
such that a smoother etching can be achieved. 
TBAP can enhance the conductivity of the 
etching solution and provides a similar function 
to DMSO and DMF. 
Considering the etching depth, pore size, 
and surface quality of the etched pore, we 
choose a combination of HF, EtOH, and DMSO 
as the etching solution for this study. The 
concentration of HF is 4M. EtOH is included to 
soften the surface tension of the etching 
solution. DMSO is added to enhance the 
conductivity of the etching solution. DMSO is 
preferred over DMF because it has lower 
toxicity. It is also found through various 
experiments, that better etching results are 
produced when the applied potential is 0.8 V. 
 
3. Results and discussion 
3.1 Nanopore fabrication results 
  Figure 8 shows an SEM image of a 
fabricated single nanopore on silicon. The 
pore diameter is about 33.5 nm. Since it is 
very difficult to cut the specimen exactly at 
the nanopore, a cross-sectional image is not 
provided.  
 
Figure 8. SEM image of the fabricated 
nanopore 
 
3.2 Diffusion coefficient control results 
Figure 9 shows the variation in 
trajectories of resistance for vessels 1 and 2 
under various VGS. The initial concentrations of 
KCl in vessels 1 and 2 were 1M and 0.25 M 
respectively, meaning the resistance of the 
 9
0.0362 0.0044y x  
0.0358 0.0015y x  
0.1186 0.0007y x  
0.0663 0.0051y x  
0.0679 0.0065y x  
 
Figure 11. ( ln( K( )/ K(0))t  , t) curves 
 
Table 1. Diffusivity for different gate voltages 
VGS (V) 0.7 0.3 0 -0.3 -0.7
D 10-11 
 (m2/sec) 
0.93 2.10 6.18 7.13 9.08
 
    The Moore conductance ΛM of the 
electrolyte can be calculated as 0.08293M-1Ω-1 
using Eq. (9). Equation (5) is then used for the 
estimation of electrolyte concentrations. 
 As mentioned in Section 2.2, the difussion 
coefficient control device MSSFET shown in 
Figure 2 is analogous to a MOSFET. If the 
initial ion concentration difference between 
vessel1 and vessel2 (C=cs1(0)- cs2(0)) is 
analogous to the applied voltage VDS in a 
MOSFET and the ion diffusion coefficient D is 
analogous to the transitor current ID, the 
transfer characteristics of the MSSFET can be 
plotted as shown in Figure 12. It is similar to 
the transfer characteristics of a p-channel 
depletion-type MOSFET. The ion diffusion 
coefficient for the zero gate voltage process 
reaches a saturation level of 6.18 10-11 (m2/sec) 
at C=0.45 M. A positive VGS increases the 
saturation level of the diffusion coefficient, 
while a negative reduces the saturation level. 
The results illustrate that the ion diffusion 
coefficient in a nanochannel can be controlled 
when the the initial ion concentration 
difference across a nanochannel is larger than a 
threshold.  
 
Figure 12. Transfer characteristics of the 
proposed MSSFET 
 
4. Conclusion 
Most of the physiological reactions in a 
cell are the result of small changes in the 
surrounding environment. The in-vivo detection 
of physiological reaction induced molecular 
variations can provide a very useful tool for the 
better understanding of such reactions. The 
small variations in the ambient environment are 
caused by the diffusion of ions through the ion 
channels of the cell membrane. In this study, a 
simple principle for the detection of the 
diffusivity of ions in a nanochannel and a 
metal-semiconductor-solution field-effect 
transistor (MSSFET) device that is analogous 
to a metal-oxide semiconductor field-effect 
transistor (MOSFET) with structural variations 
for ion diffusion coefficient control are 
proposed. Experimental results illustrate that 
the transfer characteristics of the MSSFET is 
similar to that of a p-channel depletion-type 
MOSFET. The ion diffusion coefficient in a 
 11
porous alumina. Biophys. J. 86:955-965. 
[17] Saiyed ZM, Bochiwal C, Gorasia H, 
Telang SD, Ramchand CN (2006) 
Application of magnetic particles (Fe3O4) 
for isolation of genomic DNA from 
mammalian cells. Analytical Biochemistry 
356(2):306-308. 
[18] Schibel AEP, Heider EC, Harris JM, 
White HS (2011) Fluorescence 
microscopy of the pressure-dependent 
structure of lipid bilayers suspended 
across conical nanopores. J. Am. Chem. 
Soc. 133(20):7810-7815. 
[19] Schoch RB, Lintel HV, Renaud P (2005) 
Effect of the surface charge on ion 
transport through nanoslits. Physics of 
fluids 17:100604 (5 pages). 
[20] Shendure J, Ji H (2008) Next-generation 
DNA sequencing. Nature Biotech. 26: 
1135-1145. 
[21] Smalley JF, Newto, MD, Feldberg SW 
(2000) An informative subtlety of 
itemperature-jump or coulostatic 
responses for surface-attached species. 
Electrochem. Commun. 2:832-838. 
[22] Snyder KA (2001) The relationship 
between the formation factor and the 
diffusion coefficient of porous materials 
saturated with concentrated electrolytes: 
theoretical and experimental 
considerations. Concrete Science and 
Engineering 3:216-224. 
[23] Thalhammer G, Steiger R, Bernet S, 
Ritsch-Marte M (2011) Optical 
macro-tweezers: trapping of highly motile 
micro-organisms. J. Optics 13(4): 044024. 
[24] van Milligen BP, Bons PD, Carreras BA, 
Sánchez R (2005) On the applicability of 
Fick's law to diffusion in inhomogeneous 
systems. Eur. J. Phys. 26:913-925. 
[25] Voldman J. (2006) Electrical forces for 
microscale cell manipulation. Annual 
Review of Biomedical Engineering 
8:425-454. 
[26] White RJ, Ervin EN, Yang T, Chen X, 
Daniel S, Cremer PS, White HS (2007) 
Single ion-channel recordings using glass 
nanopore membranes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
129(38):11766-11775. 
[27] Yeung SW and Hsing IM (2006) 
Manipulation and extraction of genomic 
DNA from cell lysate by functionalized 
magnetic particles for lab on a chip 
applications. Biosensors and 
Bioelectronics 21(7):989-997. 
[28] Zhang H and Liu KK (2008) Optical 
tweezers for single cells, J. R. Soc. 
Interface 5(24):671-690. 
[29] Zhang J, Xu X, Yang C, Yang F, Yang X 
(2011) Colorimetric iodide recognition 
and sensing by citrate-stabilized core/shell 
Cu@Au nanoparticles. Anal. Chem. 
83(10):3911-3917. 
[30] Zhang XG, Collins SD, Smith RL (1989) 
Porous silicon formation and 
electropolishing of silicon by anodic 
polarization in HF solution. J. 
Electrochem. Soc. 136(5):1561-1565. 
[31] Zhang XG (1991) Mechanism of pore 
formation on n-type silicon. J. 
Electrochem. Soc. 138(12):3750-3756.  
[32] Zemel A, Fattal DR, Ben-Shaul A (2003) 
Energetics and self-assembly of 
amphipathic peptide pores in lipid 
membranes. Biophys. J. 84:2242-2255. 
 2
 
除 14篇 keynote speaker session與 2篇 award lecture外，由於人數眾多，分散到 22
個會議室同時進行論文發表，除了論文發表外，大會也辦理展覽會，展出項目包括各
式機械設計分析軟體、專業書籍、期刊以及專業學會等，供參加會議者有空時參觀討
論。 
 
https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_ei_new&eventID=3323706 
圖 1：本年度大會會場 Hyatt Regency on Capitol Hill 
 
本人此次參與 The 5th International Conference on Micro- and Nanosystems，規劃主
持Bio MEMS/NEMS議程，該議程之共同規劃主持人為 Professor Brian Jensen, 
Department of Mechanical engineering, Brigham Young University以及 Professor Dumitru 
I. Caruntu, Mechanical Engineering Department, University of Texas - Pan American。此議
程原有 12篇論文投稿，每篇經三位審查者審查後，共錄取 9篇論文，分成二個 sessions
進行，除筆者與中興大學醫工所洪振義所長以及中興大學機械系吳嘉哲教授論文外，
其餘論文分別來自美國 Brigham Young University、The University of Texas Pan 
American、Sharif University of Technology, Iran、University of Maryland，筆著之論文獲
選為此次5th International Conference on Micro- and Nanosystems (MNS) 之最佳論文獎
(如圖 2)。 
 
BioMEMS/NEMS-I 
1. Nathan C. Toone and Brian Jensen, “Determining Necessary Parameters for Nanoinjector 
Electrodes During Attraction”. 
2. M. H. Saidi, Ashkan Babaie, Arman Sadeghi, “Electroosmotic Flow of Power-Law Fluids 
in a Cylindrical Microcapillary”. 
3. Chia-Che Wu, Ping-Kuo Tseng, Ching-hsiu Tsai, “Improving Adhesion Density and 
Coverage Uniformity of Antibody-Antigen Binding on A Sensor Surface Using U-Type, 
T-Type And W-Type Microfluidic Devices”. 
4. Masoud Nasiri Sarvi, Mohammad Ahmadian, “Application of a new spherical super 
element in predicting the deformation of biological cells in microinjection”. 
5. Sagar Chowdhury et al., “Investigation of Automated Cell Manipulation In Optical 
Tweezers Assisted Microfluidic Chamber Using Simulation”. 
 
BioMEMS/NEMS-II 
1. I-Jiuan Bau and Gou-Jen Wang, “A highly sensitive electrochemical impedimetric 
nanobioosensor for dust mite antigen Der p2 detection”. 
 4
   
圖 3. 議程主持與論文發表 
二、其他參訪行程 
筆者與中興大學醫工所洪振義所長、中興大學機械系陳昭亮教授以及中興大學機
械系吳嘉哲教授利用會議空檔時間前往附近之 University of Maryland參訪(如圖 4)，主
要是參觀該校之奈米中心與化學系，奈米中心由負責儀器管理之賴博士介紹奈米中心
之奈米加工與檢測設備，賴博士亦是來自台灣；化學系之行程則由今年 8 月剛回中興
大學醫工所之陳建甫博士帶領導覽，主要是生物晶片相關實驗室。 
 
  
圖 4. University of Maryland參訪 
 
 筆者吳嘉哲教授亦在會議結束後前往 North Carolina State University機械系拜訪
Professor Jay Tu (圖 5)，Professor Tu乃是筆者大學同學，目前研究之方向乃是以高能雷
射進行金屬-奈米碳管複材製作，用以增加塑膠射出成形模具之機械強度與散熱速率，
與筆者目前與工研院南分院合作進行之飛秒雷射 3D組織工程支架製作技術有些許相
似處，後續可進一步進行合作互訪。 
 1 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
Proceedings of the ASME 2011 International Design Engineering Technical Conferences &  
Computers and Information in Engineering Conference 
IDETC/CIE 2011 
August 29-31, 2011, Washington, DC, USA 
DETC2011- 47532 
FABRICATION OF PILLARED PLGA MICROVESSEL SCAFFOLD USING 
FEMTOSECOND LASER ABLATION  
 
Hsiao-Wei Wang 
Graduate Institute of Biomedical Engineering 
National Chung-Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan 
 
Ching-Wen Li 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
National Chung-Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan 
Chung-Wei Cheng 
Laser Application Technology Center, ITRI South, 
Industrial Technology Research Institute, Tainan, Taiwan
 
Gou-Jen Wang∗ 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Graduate Institute of Biomedical Engineering 
National Chung-Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan 
 
 
                                                     
∗ Professor and author of correspondence, Phone: +886-4-2284-0725, Fax: +886-4-2287-7170, Email: gjwang@dragon.nchu.edu.tw. 
ABSTRACT 
One of the continuing, persistent challenges confronting 
tissue engineering is the lack of intrinsic microvessels for the 
transportation of nutrients and metabolites. An artificial 
microvascular system can be a feasible solution to this 
problem. In this study, the femtosecond laser ablation 
technique was implemented for the fabrication of pillared 
microvessel scaffolds in PLGA. This novel scaffold enable the 
conventional cell seeding process to be implemented and the 
progress of cell growth to be observed in vitro by an optical 
microscopy. Hence, the milky and completely opaque 
problems of the conventional PLGA scaffold after cell seeding 
can be resolved. Currently, PLGA microvessel scaffolds 
consisting of 30μm×200μm pillared branches have been 
produced. Cell cultural results of BECs demonstrate that cells 
can well adhere and grow surrounding each branch of the 
proposed pillared microvessel networks. The promising results 
reveal that an artificial microvessel networks for tissue 
engineering can be completely realized. 
 
1 INTRODUCTION 
The main theme of tissue engineering [1, 2] is to seed 
specific cells in an appropriate scaffold and provide a suitable 
culture environment and adequate growth information to 
modulate the differentiation and proliferation of cells. Cell, 
scaffold, and growth information are the basic elements of 
tissue engineering. Scaffolds serve a number of purposes, as 
the foundation for cell attachment and migration, for the 
exchange of nutrients, and delivering and retaining of the cells 
and biochemical factors. One of the continuing, persistent 
challenges confronting tissue engineering is the lack of 
intrinsic microvessels for the transportation of nutrients and 
metabolites. One of the feasible solutions is making an 
artificial microvascular system to provide regular metabolic 
operation. 
In general, the structure of a microvascular network is 
much smaller than that of an artery or a vein. Conventional 
techniques for artificial blood vessels fabrication cannot be 
completely adopted for the fabrication of a microvascular 
network. Soft lithography [3, 4] using polymers such as 
PDMS (polydimethylsiloxane) and PLGA (poly(lactic-co-
glycolic acid)) has been studied and successfully used to make 
microvessel scaffolds for tissue engineering. Borenstein et al. 
used deep reactive ion etching (DRIE) to make 
microstructures of a microvessel network on a silicon 
substrate as a replica mold. Microvessel scaffolds of PDMS 
were constructed by casting using the replica mold and O2 
plasma assisting bonding. Successful seedings of endothelial 
cells of human microvessels (HMEC-1) in the PDMS 
scaffolds wer observed [5-7]. Wang et al. [8] then 
implemented stainless steel electroforming and silicon 
electroforming approaches respectively to manufacture 
microvascular scaffolds on polycarbonate (PC) and poly 
lactide-co-glycolides (PLGA) for bovine endothelial cells 
(BEC) seeding. The optimization of the microvascular 
scaffold structure for better cell-adhesion was also 
accomplished by fluid mechanics analysis and computer 
simulations [9, 10]. For these aforementioned approaches, the 
microchannels of a scaffold have rectangular cross-section. A 
rectangular microchannel usually has dead volumes in its four 
corners. To solve the dead volume problems the same group 
has developed microvessel scaffolds with circular 
microchannels on both PDMS and PLGA substrates using 
photoresist melting approach [11, 12]. Borenstein et al. [13] 
recently reported another circular cross-sectional 
microvascular scaffold structure based on the polystyrene (PS) 
substrate. Successful seeding of primary human umbilical vein 
 3 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
PLGA is a copolymer of lactic acid and glycolic acid. 
The mechanical properties and biodegradability of PLGA are 
determined by the ratio of lactide to glycolide used for 
polymerization (e.g. PLGA 50:50 denotes a copolymer whose 
composition is 50% lactic acid and 50% glycolic acid). Since a 
pillared microvessel networks needs high mechanical strength 
to sustain the structure, the 85:15 PLGA was adopted in this 
study.  
The PLGA solution was produced by dissolving 85/15 
POLY, IV ： 1.6-1.99 (dl/g), Mw:350000-500000 (Da) 
(Sigma-Aldrich, USA) in acetone in a 1:4 w/w ratio. The 
admixture was then stirred by a magneto agitator at 60°C for 
30-60 min to ensure a complete dissolution. The PLGA 
solution was then shaken for 15 min using an ultrasonic shaker 
to expel bubbles generated during mixing. Finally, the PLGA 
solution was kept at 4°C for polymerization. 
 
2.4 Zeta potential measurement 
A Bruker DI3100 (Germany) electric-force microscopy 
(EFM) was used to image the electrostatic surface potential of 
the laser micromachined surface of PLGA scaffold. 
 
2.5 Surface roughness measurement 
 The same device for EFM image in the atomic-force 
microscopy (AFM) mode was used to measure the surface 
roughness of the laser micromachined surface of PLGA 
scaffold. 
 
2.6 Bovine endothelial cells (BEC)  
In this study, bovine endothelial cells (provided by 
Professor Chia-Ching Wu, Department of Cell Biology and 
Anatomy, School of Medicine, National Cheng-Kung 
University, Taiwan) were used to form the desired capillaries. 
Cells were isolated and cultured in T-75 under the standard 
cell culture conditions (i.e., at 37°C; humidity of 5%; 
CO2/95% air environment). BEC were cultured in low glucose 
Dulbecco’s modified Eagle medium (DMEM) purchased from 
Gibco BRL, supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum 
(FBS) supplied by Biological Industries, 100 units/ml 
Penicillen-Streptomycin (PS) purchased from Biological 
Industries. These cells were then coated on the pillared 
microvessel networks, and kept at 37°C and in 5% CO2 for the 
period of the experiments. 
 
2.7 BEC adhesion and growth examination 
The adhesion and growth condition of cultures of BEC on 
the pillared microvessel networks were examined using 
Phalloidin cell stain (Sigma, USA) for skeleton labeling (588 
nm excitation wavelength) and DAPI nucleic acid stain 
(invitrogen, USA) for nucleus labeling (358 nm excitation 
wavelength), respectively. Briefly, BEC were washed 3 times 
with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and then incubated at 
room temperature in 4% of paraformaldehyde (Sigma, USA) 
for 15 min to stable cells on their original adhesion position. 
Following the incubation, cells were soaked in the medium of 
0.5% (v/v) Triton X-100 (Sigma, USA) in PBS for 30 min 
then were soaked in the 1% (w/v) bovineserum albumin (BSA) 
supplied by United State Biochemical. The soaking durations 
for skeleton labeling and nucleus labeling were 30 min and 5 
min, respectively. Both the skeleton and nucleus fluorescent 
images were taken using a Nikon Eclipse 80i inverted 
microscope to examine BEC adhesion and growth condition 
on the pillared microvessel networks. 
 
2.8 Sectional microscopic examination 
 The BEC cultured scaffold was fixed immediately in 
10% neutral buffered formalin for 1 to 2 hr. The fixed scaffold 
was dehydrated in ethanol, cleared in xylene, and embedded in 
an optimum cutting temperature (OCT) compound block. 
Five-μm sections were cut and stained by hematoxylin and 
eosin. 
3 RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS  
3.1 PLGA micromachining by femtosecond ablation 
Figure 3 shows the SEM images of line patters fabricated 
on PLGA film surface using a constant speed 0.05 mm/s, laser 
power in range of 0.45~60 mW, and single pass. Due to the 
Gaussian property of the irradiated laser beam profile, the 
middle of the scanning area was irradiated by higher laser 
energy than the edges. The net peak energy intensity (NEp) of 
the focus laser beam is higher than the ablation threshold of 
PLGA, and thus the center of the line is ablated, NEp = N×Ep, 
where N = 2ω0R/s is the number of laser pulses irradiated per 
focus spot diameter and Ep = E/(πω02) is the peak energy 
intensity. Note that ω0 is the focus spot radius, R is the laser 
repetition rate, s is the scanning speed, and E is the laser pulse 
energy. As shown in Fig. 3, it is found that the width of the 
line increases with increasing laser power, because of the net 
peak energy at per irradiated focus spot diameter is also 
increased. 
Figure 4 shows the magnificated SEM image of the 
micromachined PLGA with laser power 1.2 mW. It is clearly 
observed that the center area was ablated; however, the outer 
edges are subject to lower irradiation intensity, and thus the 
ablated channels are bordered on either side by a small ridge 
pattern. 
Figure 5 illustrates the variation of the measured ablation 
width and depth (obtained from the cross-sectional SEM 
image) as a function of the laser power for scanning speed 
0.05 and 0.5 mm/s, respectively. It is observed that a lower 
scanning speed results in a larger pattern width and depth. 
When the irradiated laser power is fixed, low scanning speed 
increases the number of laser pulses, i.e. N = 2ω0R/s, results in 
the net peak energy intensity increases at per irradiated focus 
spot diameter. The thermal energy deposited by subsequent 
pulses must diffuse out through a large area of irradiated 
material and grow in pattern width and depth. 
 5 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
 
Figure 9(a) shows an EFM image of the laser 
micromachined PLGA surface. The phase image of Fig. 9(a) is 
illustrated in Fig. 9(b). Figure 9(c) is the phase image when 
the focal length was increased by 3 μm. Figure 9(c) reveals no 
sign of electric field. It indicates that neither positive nor 
negative potential is on the PLGA surface. The zeta potential 
free surface exhibits no repulsion to the negative charged 
surface of BECs and enables better cell adhesion. 
 
   
Figure 9. EFM images for zeta potential analysis (a) EFM 
image; (b) phase image; (c) phase image when the focal length 
was increased by 3 μm 
 
Figure 10 shows the AFM images of an original and a 
laser micromachined PLGA surfaces. The surface roughness 
of the original PLGA surface shown in Fig. 10(a) is 2.78 nm, 
while the surface roughness of the laser micromachined PLGA 
surface (Figure 10(b)) is 91 nm. 
 
  
Figure 10. AFM images of an original (a) and a laser 
micromachined (b) PLGA surfaces. 
 
3.3 BEC culture results 
Figure 11 shows the fluorescent images of the BEC 
adhesion and proliferation on the PLGA scaffold shown in Fig. 
7(a). It can be observed from Fig. 11 (a) that cells had not yet 
adhered to the pillared microvessel networks after one day of 
seeding. Figure 11 (b) is the image of 10 days’ culture. Cells 
had well adhered to the scaffold and plate.  After 14 days’ 
seeding (Figure 11(c)), the growth of cells reached the 
saturation condition. However, the scaffold bent together 
(Figure 12) due to absorption of culture medium; therefore, 
the 2nd type scaffold (Figure 7(b)) was used for further cell 
seeding. 
 
Figure 11. Fluorescent images of BEC adhesion on the PLGA 
scaffold, (a) 1 day’s seeding; (b) 10 days’ seeding; (c) 14 days’ 
seeding 
 
Figure 12. Scaffold bent together due to absorption of culture 
medium 
 
Figure 13 shows fluorescent images of DAPI labeled 
nucleus of adhering cells on the PLGA scaffold as shown in 
Fig. 7(b) at 200X magnifications, 10 days after plating. The 
light spots, which denote the locations of nucleus, indicate that 
cells definitely adhered and grew on the pillared scaffold, 
although the branches of the scaffold were slightly deformed 
due to absorption of the cultivation medium. Figure 14 
illustrates a fluorescent image combining the Phalloidin 
labeled skeletons and the DAPI labeled nucleus excited by 
different light sources. The firm adhesions of cells can be 
further confirmed. 
 
  
Figure 13. Fluorescent images of DAPI labeled nucleus of 
adhering cells 
 
 
Figure 14. Fluorescent image combines the labeled skeletons 
and nucleus 
 
 Figure 15 illustrates a sectional microscopic image of the 
BECs adhering and growing surrounding a pillared PLGA 
scaffold. There is no BEC on both the top and bottom surfaces. 
It is presumed that BECs did not firmly adhere on these two 
original PLGA surfaces that have surface roughness around 
2.78 nm, hence BECs might come off the scaffold surface 
with the stain during staining. However, both the vertical 
surfaces, having surface roughness of 91 nm, could provide 
better adhesive condition for BECs; therefore, they did not 
come off the scaffold surface with the stain. It was also 
observed that both the width and height of the pillared PLGA 
were swollen by 60% due to absorption of culture medium. A 
 7 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
[18] A. Chimmalgi, T. Y. Choi, C. P. Grigoropoulos, and K. 
Komvopoulos, Femtosecond laser aperturless near-field 
nanomachining of metals assisted by scanning probe 
microscopy, Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 82, pp. 1146-1148, 
2003. 
[19] C. W. Cheng, W. C. Shen, C. Y. Lin, Y. J, Lee, and J. S. 
Chen, Fabrication of micro/nano crystalline ITO structures 
by femtosecond laser pulses, Applied Physics A, Vol. 101, 
pp.243-248, 2010. 
[20] M. Kamata, M. Obara, R. R. Gattass, L. R. Cerami, and E. 
Mazur, Optical vibration sensor fabricated by femtosecond 
laser micromachining, Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 87, 051106, 
2005. 
[21] V. Maselli, R. Osellame, G.   Cerullo, R.  Ramponi, P. 
Laporta, L.  Magagnin, P. L.  Cavallotti, Fabrication of 
long microchannels with circular cross section using 
astigmatically shaped femtosecond laser pulses and 
chemical etching. Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 88, 191107, 2006. 
[22] S. H. Chung, D. A. Clark, C. V. Gabel, E. Mazur, and A. 
D. T. Samuel, The role of the AFD neuron in C-elegans 
thermotaxis analyzed using femtosecond laser ablation. 
Bmc Neuroscience, Vol. 7, 30, 2006. 
[23] S. Gaspard, M. Forster, C. Huber, C. Zafiu, G. 
Trettenhahn, W. Kautek, and M. Castillejo, Femtosecond 
laser processing of biopolymers at high repetition rate, 
Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics, Vol. 10, pp. 6174-
6181, 2008.  
[24] R. An, J. D. Uram, E. C. Yusko, K. Ke, M. Mayer, and A. 
J. Hunt, Ultrafast laser fabrication of submicrometer pores 
in borosilicate glass, Optics Letters, Vol. 33, 1153-1155, 
2008. 
[25] A. Y. Vorobyev, V.S. Makin, C. Guo, Brighter light 
sources from black metal: significant increase in emission 
efficiency of incandescent light sources, Physical Review 
Letters, Vol. 102, 234301, 2009. 
[26] C. Y. Lee, T. C. Chang, S. C. Wang, C. W. Chien, and C. 
W. Cheng, Using femtosecond laser to fabricate highly 
precise interior three dimensional micro-structures in 
polymeric flow chip, Biomicrofluidics, Vol.4, 046502, 
2010 
[27] C. H. Chen, T. C. Chao, W. Y. Li, W. C. Shen, J. L. Tang, 
C. P. Jen, C. W. Cheng, L. K Chau, and W. T. Wu, Novel 
U-shape gold nanoparticles-modified optical fiber for 
localized plasmon resonance sensing, Microsystem 
Technologies, Vol.16, pp.1207-1214, 2010. 
[28] C. W. Cheng, Y. J Lee, W. C. Shen, J. S. Chen, and C. W. 
Chien, Femtosecond laser-induced crystallization of 
amorphous indium tin oxide film on glass substrate for 
patterning applications, Journal of Laser Micro 
Nanoengineering, Vol. 4, pp.165-169, 2009. 
[29] Y. C. Lim, J. Johnson, Z. Fei, Y. Wu, D. F. Farson, J. J. 
Lannutti, H. W. Choi, L. J. Lee, Micropatterning and 
characterization of electrospun poly(e-caprolactone)/ 
gelatin nanofiber tissue scaffolds by femtosecond laser 
ablation for tissue engineering applications, Biotechnology 
and Bioengineering, Vol. 108, No. 1, pp. 116-126, 2011. 
 
  
 
 2 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
can be conducted simply by adding a solution of the desired 
molecule onto the substrate surface and washing away the 
excess. Nuzzo et al. [8] found that monolayers of organic 
disulfides could stably adhere to a gold substrate. Rubinstein 
et al. [9] pioneered using the SAMs technique to develop a 
gold electrode biosensor. Dubois et al. [10] reported that gold 
has difficulty reacting with other materials due to its low 
activity. Everett et al. [11] discovered that the SAM attached 
to a gold electrode could maintain its stable condition when 
the applied electric potential was between +0.8 V and -1.4 V. 
Consequently, gold is commonly used as the transducer for 
SAM based biosensors. Gold nanoparticles can provide a 
substantially larger surface area than that of bulk material or 
thin films so has been an extraordinarily useful material for 
the transducer of the SAM based biosensors. 
As mentioned above, electrochemical analysis is a 
promising method for biomarker detection. However, there 
have been only a very few relevant papers discussing the 
detection of trace dust mites using electrochemical analysis. 
Huang et al. [12] used a dust mite antigen Der f2 coated 
carbon electrode to detect monoclonal antibody solutions with 
various concentrations. The maximum sensitivity of the device 
was about 10μg/mL. Afterwards the same group [13] 
proposed a better device which was fabricated by 
electrodepositing gold nanoparticles onto the carbon electrode 
as the substrate for the antigen coating. Its sensitivity was 
improved to 2μg/mL. A surface plasmon resonance-based 
approach using the MUA, EDC/NHS self-assembled 
monolayer to immobilize the antibody was further proposed 
by the same group which greatly increased the sensitivity of 
Der f2 detection to15 ng/mL [14].  A carbon nanotube (CNT) 
electrode array based immunosensor for the detection of 
mouse IgG was proposed by Yun et al. [15]. The nanotube 
electrodes were first functionalized with carboxylic groups, 
followed by the using of EDC with sulfo-NHS to immobilize 
the antibody to the nanotube array. A dynamic range of up to 
100 μg/mL and a detection limit of 200 ng/mL were obtained. 
In this research, a highly sensitive nanobiosensor based 
on a 3D sensing element featuring uniformly deposited gold 
nanoparticles is proposed for the detection of dust mite antigen 
Der p2. In this novel nanobiosensor, the barrier layer of an 
anodic aluminum oxide (AAO) film is used as the template. A 
reducing agent and stabilizer free method based on the 
electrochemical deposition technique is used to synthesize 
uniformly distributed gold nanoparticles on the surface of the 
barrier layer. The distribution density and size of the 
nanoparticles can be precisely controlled by the applied 
potential for electrochemical deposition. The detection of the 
dust mite antigen Der p2 was hence carried out using 
electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) analysis [16-
18]. 
 
2 MATERIAL AND METHOD  
2.1 Sensor fabrication 
Figure 1 shows a schematic illustration of the proposed 
gold nanoparticle transducer. The sequential synthesis 
processes include: preparation of an AAO film; modification 
of the surface of its barrier-layer; deposition of an Au thin film; 
annealing; and electrochemical deposition of Au nanoparticles. 
Since the Au thin film for the electrode is shaped by the 
structure of the surface of the barrier-layer, the procedures 
involving the modification of the barrier-layer surface are 
crucial. 
 
Figure 1. Schematic drawing of the proposed reductant and 
stabilizer free approach for gold nanoparticle synthesis 
 
The fabrication of the proposed 3-D nanobiosensor 
includes the AAO film preparation, barrier-layer surface 
modification, Au thin film deposition, electrode annealing, 
device packing, and Au nanoparticle deposition. The 
fabrication is discussed in details below. 
(1) AAO film preparation 
The AAO films were prepared using the well-known 
anodizing process. Aluminum foils were cleansed and 
electropolished before anodization. AAO films, with a 
nanopore diameter of around 60 nm and a thickness of 50 μm, 
were obtained by anodizing polished aluminum foil in a 0.3 M 
phosphoric acid solution under an applied voltage of 90 V at 
0°C for 2 hours. The remaining aluminum beneath the barrier 
layer was dissolved in an aqueous CuCl2-HCl solution that 
was prepared by dissolving 13.45 g of powdered CuCl2 into 
100 ml of 35 wt% hydrochloric acid solution. After the 
remaining aluminum beneath the barrier layer was removed, a 
honey-comb like barrier-layer surface was obtained. 
(2) Modification of the barrier-layer surface 
The honey-combs had an average convex diameter of 80 
nm. Following this, the barrier-layer surface was immersed in 
a 30 wt% phosphoric acid for 40 minutes to modify the 
surface structure.  
(3) Deposition of an Au thin film 
The modified barrier-layer surface was then used as the 
template for depositing the 3D nanostructure Au film through 
radio frequency (RF) magnetron sputtering. The experimental 
conditions during deposition were: pressure = 4.0×10-3 torr; 
temperature = room temperature; argon = 20 sccm; power = 
80 W; processing time = 2 min. A 3D nanostructure Au film 
with thickness of 30 nm was obtained. 
(4) Annealing 
To further modify the surface structures of the 3D 
nanostructure of the Au film and increase the conductivity of 
the sample, we utilized an additional annealing process. The 
annealing procedures included: heating the sample to 120 °C 
at a rate of 20 °C/sec and maintaining that temperature for 40 
min; then cooling the sample in open air to room temperature. 
(5) Packaging 
Precise packaging before the electrochemical deposition 
of Au nanoparticles can not only ensure the uniformity of the 
sensing area in each biosensor but also prevent other solutions 
from coming into contact with the sample. The packaging 
procedures are schematically illustrated in Figure 2 and 
itemized as follows:  
(i) Cut the parafilm into 2.5×2.5 cm2 squares. 
(ii) Punch a φ=6 mm hole in the center of the square of 
parafilm. 
(iii) Smear a thin film of epoxy on the bottom surface of the 
parafilm square, followed by bonding of the parafilm to the 
 4 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
power and AC power were 0 V and 5mV, respectively. The 
AC frequency ranged from 0.1Hz to 100kHz. 
 
 
Figure 3. Procedure for the immobilization of Der p2 
 
2.5 Fluorescence analysis 
The total amount of Der p2 that can adhere to a sensor 
determines its sensitivity. Fluorescence analysis was 
conducted to compare the adhesive abilities between the 
proposed AAO/Au/GNP device and a flat Au film on Der p2. 
The Der p2-EGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein) 
molecules were used to replace the Der p2 molecules in Figure 
3 so that the amount of attached Der p2 on IgG could be 
illustrated using confocal microscopy. The Pichia Expression 
Kit (invitrogen, CA, USA) was used for the preparation of the 
Der p2-EGFP solution. A confocal microscope (Olympus 
FV1000) with laser light ranging 350nm-400nm was 
implemented to analyze the adhesive abilities. 
 
3 RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS  
3.1 Device fabrication results 
The SEM images of the original and modified barrier-
layer surfaces are shown in Figure 4. Due to the stress 
concentration effect during anodization, the phosphoric acid 
etched out more alumina at the borders between the cells than 
from the cell surfaces, resulting in an orderly hemispheric 
barrier-layer surface.  
Figure 5 shows the results of the electrochemical 
deposition of gold nanoparticles. The gold nanoparticles 
deposited using an orderly hemispheric electrode array  have 
an average diameter of about 10 nm and are uniformly and 
compactly deposited on the hemispheric electrode array. 
However, their distribution is disorderly when a flat electrode 
is implemented with a sodium citrate solution used as the 
stabilizer. The uniformly propagated electric flux (
K
E ) 
perpendicular to the hemispheric Au thin film electrode pulls 
the positive charges carrying Au nanoparticles in the 
electrolyte. This means that they can be densely deposited 
onto the surface of the Au thin film electrode without the 
necessity of any reducing agent or stabilizer. 
 
  
 (a) (b) 
Figure 4. SEM images of the original and modified barrier-
layer surfaces 
 
  
 (a)  (b) 
Figure 5. SEM images of gold nanoparticles synthesized by 
electrochemical deposition: (a) 3D electrode; (b) flat electrode 
and sodium citrate solution as the stabilizer. 
 
Since the morphology of the deposited gold 
nanoparticles is a function of the electric flux density, which is 
determined by the applied potential, it is worthwhile to 
investigate the dependencies of the deposition morphology on 
the applied potential. Deposition experiments with applied 
potentials ranging from -0.4 V to -0.7 V were conducted.  It 
was observed that a higher applied potential resulted in gold 
nanoparticles with a larger diameter. It was also found that the 
amount of gold nanoparticles deposited on each hemispheric 
electrode reached a peak value when the potential was -0.7 V, 
and afterwards decreased due to the aggregation of 
nanoparticles. The morphology experiments demonstrated that 
the deposition density and particle size could be controlled by 
the applied potential. 
  
3.2 CV test results 
The cyclic voltammogram for the CV test is shown in 
Figure 6. The reducing potential of AuO was detected to be 
around 0.912 V. Electric charges of 448μC can be 
accumulated by integrating the area of the reducing peak in 
Figure 6. Since the charges required to form AuO per 1 cm2 of 
Au electrode was 386 μC, the effective area of the device was 
estimated to be 1.16 cm2 (1.22 mC/386 μC). When compared 
with the area (0.2827cm2) of the φ=6 mm substrate, the 
effective area was enhanced 4.2-fold. 
 
 6 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
 
Figure 8. ΔRet as a function of the logarithmic concentration of 
Der p2 for the proposed nanobionsensor 
 
3.4 Fluorescence analysis results 
Figure 9 shows confocal microscopy images for Der p2-
EGFP concentrations of 86μg/ml and 8.6ng/ml, respectively. 
It can be observed that Der p2 molecules adhered to the 
proposed 3D nanobiosensor with much higher intensity and 
uniformity than adhered to a plain gold thin film. Comparison 
of adhesion of Der p2 on different sensors may further 
indicate that the intensity and uniformity of the Au 
nanoparticles on the sensor is the main factor for the high 
sensitivity of the proposed 3D nanobiosensor. 
 
4 CONCLUDING REMARKS 
A highly sensitive nanobiosensor is designed in this study 
based on a 3D sensing element with uniformly deposited gold 
nanoparticles for the detection of the dust mite antigen Der p2. 
The sequential synthesis processes of the nanobiosensor 
include: preparation of an AAO film; modification of the 
surface of the barrier-layer; deposition of a thin film of gold 
on the surface of the barrier layer; annealing; and 
electrochemical deposition of gold nanoparticles on the gold 
thin film. Results show that the IgG antibodies for the dust 
mite antigen Der p2 were immobilized on the gold 
nanoparticles. The sensing limit and dynamic range of the 
proposed 3D gold-nanoparticle based nanobiosensor using 
electrochemical impedance spectroscopy analysis were 
examined and found to be 1 pg/ml and 5 μg/ml, respectively. 
Compared with the best previously recorded sensitivity of 15 
ng/ml [14], the sensitivity for Der f2 detection was greatly 
enhanced. The marked enhancement of sensitivity was due to 
the following factors: (1) the 3D nanostructure of the AAO 
film increased the binding surface of the gold nanoparticles; (2) 
the symmetrical distribution of the electrical field intensity 
during electrophoresis deposition resulted in an exceptionally 
uniform distribution of the gold nanoparticles; (3) the uniform 
distribution of the gold nanoparticles on the hemispheric array 
allowed the MUA molecules to attach to individual gold 
nanoparticles, followed by the binding of EDC/NHS 
molecules, and then IgG molecules. Hence the effective 
binding between Der p2 and IgG could be greatly increased. 
 
 
(a) 
  
(b) 
Figure 9. Fluorescence analysis of different sensors on Der p2 
adherence: (a) Der p2-EGFP concentration of 86μg/ml; (b) Der 
p2-EGFP concentration of 8.6ng/ml 
 
5. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
The authors would like to offer their thanks to the 
Department of Health of Taiwan for their financial support 
under grant number DOH98-TD-N-111-006. 
 
6. REFERENCES 
[1] Tsai, J. J., Kao, M. H., and Huang, S. L., “Comparison of 
major aeroallergens in Taipei and Kin-Men,” J. Formos 
Med Assoc. Vol. 96, 985-989, 1997. 
[2] Tsai, J. J., Shen, H. D., and Chua, K. Y., ”Purification of 
group 2 Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus allergen and 
prevalence of its specific IgE in asthmatics,” Int. Arch 
Allergy Immunol. Vol. 121(3), 205-210, 2000. 
[3] Osterlund, C., Gronlund, H., Polovic, N., Sundstrom, S., 
Gafvelin, G., Bucht, A., “The non-proteolytic house dust 
mite allergen Der p 2 induce NF-κB and MAPK dependent 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/12/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 奈米粒子於奈米孔洞之擴散係數量測與控制技術研究
計畫主持人: 王國禎
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-005-072-MY3 學門領域: 微機電系統技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
