 區域（大樓樓層內）布設足夠數量及適當
分布之RFID標籤（tags），配合相關資訊
（如相對坐標或區段序號）之存取，提供
行動平台（即RFID讀取器（reader））測
知其所處空間位置之功能，另基於即時導
引及軌跡監控等兩項作業之需求，亦輔以
相關資訊系統之開發，有效完成一套定位
追蹤應用系統之作業雛型【1】【5】。 
計畫第二年期所完成之部分，則是配
合操作原理較為複雜之雷達式無線射頻辨
識裝置（RFID-Radar），在已知坐標之室
內點位上布設該型RFID讀取器，利用其掃
讀方式提供多個RFID標籤至讀取器之相對
距離及角度，另配合相應之演算法來求取
各目標物(即RFID標籤點)之平面坐標。此
項研究已實際結合RFID-Radar與資訊系統
之開發，完成一套可提供坐標資訊的物品
偵測管理系統，使用者可從系統的圖形化
介面中，進行位置相關之室內物品管理作
業【2】。 
本計畫執行第三年（本）期之工作，
則係配合一組主動式RFID系統之運作，利
用標籤至讀取器間之訊號傳遞強度衰減
量，加以轉換求得測點間之距離，再配合
交會定位原理來進行行動平台（RFID讀取
器）之定位計算【9】。另基於輔助式全
球定位系統(A-GPS)技術的發展【3】
【4】，本期計畫亦將利用具有高感度GPS
定 位 晶 片 （ High Sensitive GPS, 
HSGPS）之行動定位裝置，配合A-GPS服務
功能，進行室內環境下之定位效能測試。 
 
三、成果與討論 
(一) 主動式RFID定位技術 
1. 運作基礎 
相對於被動式RFID標籤無需使用電源
之特性，致使其讀取距離也相對有限，而
主動式RFID所使用之標籤則須配置紐扣式
電池來提供其運作，也就使其運作距離可
以增長至大約30公尺，亦可透過額外天線
的加置來擴大其運作範圍至100公尺。一
般而言，決定RFID系統作業距離的原因有
以下幾點： 
• 讀取器與標籤之間進行通訊的訊號強度 
• 標籤內部進行感應的訊號強度 
• 環境條件 
在運用主動式RFID進行定位工作時，
每一個標籤都必須事先寫入其唯一的ID編
碼（Tag ID），並採固定頻率對外傳遞其
各自唯一的ID編碼，以供讀取器進行辨
識；另對RFID讀取器而言，其必須具有不
同訊號強度的感測功能，以期藉由所接收
之 至 少 三 個 標 籤 訊 號 反 射 強 度 值
（Received Signal Strength, RSS），
來決定標籤點與讀取器之間的距離，進而
透過相關標籤點（已知坐標點）與相對距
離所建構之觀測量（含誤差），採空間交
會模式來估測讀取器之空間坐標（定位示
意如圖1）。 
圖1 Active RFID定位運作示意圖 
（雙圈表真實與誤差距離） 
在所使用之設備方面，本研究採用
Ethernet網路功能之主動式RFID裝備（讀
取器如圖2所示），該型RFID在讀取週遭
電子標籤之訊號後，將會利用網路方式傳
輸接收訊號到控制軟體（如圖3），此時
較為重要之觀測數據，即為其所所傳送之
Tag ID及RSS，另可將接收資料輸出為可
讀式之數值檔後，即可配合RSS與距離之
相映函數，決定標籤點（已知位置點）至
讀取器（待定點）間之距離，進而配合交
會定位演算模式進行定位。 
在訊號強度衰減轉換距離之函數方
面，基於active RFID定位所使用之基本
觀測量，會是由讀取器感測到標籤點訊號
強度所轉換出來之距離量，而由於訊號強
 
2
  
圖4 RFID差分定位示意圖 
2. 定位成果分析 
本研究所選定之測試環境（約6 m x 
7 m之室內大廳），係將9個RFID標籤位置
點與6個RFID讀取器定位點，以網格方式
進行配置（如圖5）。其中，標籤係黏貼
於離地245 cm高之天花板處，另RFID讀取
器（定位裝置）所處之6個接收點位，則
係架設於室內地板上。各標籤點及各定位
點之間的相對距離，則用量尺加以測定，
以賦予各點位於室內自訂坐標系內之坐標
位置。該組標籤點及接收點完成坐標測定
後，將可於求定距離映射轉換函數之路徑
衰減指數時，將其間之實測距離視為定值
使用，亦可於定位計算時，將標籤點之坐
標視為所需之已知值，並將接收點之坐標
視為解算成果之精度檢核值使用。 
在利用ㄧ台active RFID於6個定位點
上分組接收由9個標籤點同時傳來的訊號
資料時，係以每5秒讀取一筆之頻率，採
靜態方式，各自讀取2分鐘之訊號接收強
度資料（如圖6），以做為路徑衰減指數
估測與定位坐標解算之所需觀測量。 
本研究在進行active RFID定位技術
之測試過程中，係將相關成果分為二部分
進行探討，ㄧ為距離估測之精度評估，另
ㄧ則為定位坐標成果之精度評估。 
在距離估測之精度評估上，本研究係
採用二種估測模式來獲取active RFID之
感測距離，其ㄧ是採用（1）式之映射模
式來進行訊號接收強度轉換為距離之估
測，其關鍵因子即為路徑衰減指數之預先
決定；另ㄧ方法則是採用Table Curve 2D
軟體，預先進行訊號接收強度衰減值與空
間距離之自動化最佳函數擬合（如圖
7），進而透過定位點之訊號強度感測資
料，來決定其與每個標籤點之空間距離。
現將實際運用active RFID訊號感測資
料，以進行空間距離估測之相關精度評估
成果列如表1所示。 
 
圖5 RFID定位測試裝置配置示意圖 
 
圖6 接收點（R1）與標籤點（T1）之 
訊號接收強度變化 
 
圖7 自動化最佳函數擬合成果（X軸：訊
號接收強度衰減值；Y軸：空間距離） 
 
4
 裝置所配搭運作之SkyTraq軟體，相關運
作所需之A-GPS數據服務係以網路方式由
廠商（航威科技）下載提供（如圖9）。 
 
圖9 A-GPS連結上網之運作畫面 
Skytraq軟體可協助下載GPS dongle
裝置進行A-GPS定位所需之輔助資訊，亦
可即時顯示衛星定位訊號的接收狀況、即
時定位坐標以及坐標成果之分布圖等相關
資訊。12小時測試過程中，係以每10分鐘
間距，分別採用目視紀錄法，對Mio定位
成果加以收集；另採用Windows畫面擷取
軟體，對Skytraq定位成果畫面進行擷取
存檔。 
針對測試過程所收集之定位數據資
料，則另行經由Excel軟體，對成果分析
所需之衛星編號、衛星觀測顆數、TTFF、
定位坐標等成果進行分類整理，並對每1
小時之定位成果資料進行相關之成果化算
與分析。由於Skytraq之定位坐標成果，
皆以WGS84坐標系之大地經緯度坐標分量
呈現，另因應成果分析所需，則將其轉算
為TWD97坐標基準下之平面投影（N,E）坐
標，並計算各組數據成果之中誤差後，剔
除大於3倍中誤差以上之錯誤定位成果，
再依其成果表現進行後續相關之分析作
業。 
2. 效能分析 
在測試區收集完成有效之測試數據，
並經資料整理與剔除後，相關成果將分別
針對A-GPS室內定位之可用性（含衛星接
收顆數及首筆定位耗時）與準確性（含坐
標分量精度）等兩項指標進行檢視。 
（一）衛星接收顆數 
在GPS及A-GPS定位模式下，於12小時
觀測期間內，每小時成功接收之平均衛星
顆數變化如圖10所示。由圖中可知，GPS
模式下之衛星接收顆數在測試開始的首4
個小時階段，其衛星數有較明顯的下降趨
勢（由7顆降至3顆），隨即在接續的4個
小時內，又有明顯回升之現象（由3顆升
至7顆）；另就A-GPS模式下之衛星接收顆
數而言，其衛星數量較為穩定的維持在7
至8顆之間，顯示A-GPS定位模式之衛星接
收狀況可較標準GPS模式較顯一致；但就
最後4個小時之測試時段而言，兩種定位
模式下之衛星接收顆數雖仍有不同，但數
量變化在此時段內則有較為一致趨勢。就
整體差異來看，GPS模式下的衛星接收數
量變化為3~7顆，而A-GPS模式下的數量變
化幅度則為5~8顆，二種模式之間的衛星
顆數平均差異為2.3顆，對接收數量及變
動幅度而言，A-GPS定位模式皆可有較佳
之表現。 
 
圖 10 每小時平均接收衛星顆數之變化 
同樣運用GPS及A-GPS定位模式下之12
小時測試資料，另可將每10分鐘時段內之
衛星接收顆數由0~10顆加以分類，並統計
各衛星顆數出現時段佔全部觀測資料時段
之比率，並繪如圖11所示。由圖中可知，
GPS定位模式下以4~6顆衛星數所佔比例最
大（合計約57%），而A-GPS定位模式下則
以5~7顆衛星數所佔比例最大（合計約
83%）。 
 
 
6
 (左圖：GPS；右圖：A-GPS) 
 
-150.0
-100.0
-50.0
0.0
50.0
100.0
150.0
1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37
數列1
數列2
圖 13 剔除大誤差後之 U 坐標分量定位誤
差(數列 1：GPS；數列 2：A-GPS) 
 
四、計畫成果自評 
依本案之推動程序，研究計畫第三年
度係使用主動式RFID裝置，開發出以訊號
強度感測距離之室內定位相關技術，另佐
以輔助式A-GPS定位技術，進行室內環境
之定位效能測試。此一主題所規劃之工作
項目包括： 
(1) 主動式 RFID 室內定位程序之研擬； 
(2) 主動式 RFID 定位演算法之確立； 
(3) 訊號接收強度轉換距離函數之建立； 
(4) 訊號距離加權定位模式之運用； 
(5) 主動式 RFID 差分定位計算之測試； 
(6) A-GPS 定位技術之運作效能測試 
由研究成果可知，上述工作項目皆已
按推動程序執行完成，唯部分研究內容：
如RFID/A-GPS室內測試區之擴大、測試區
干擾環境之導入、即時性RFID定位之系統
化等，仍有進一步探討之空間，以期能更
加確立RFID運用於室內定位之效能，進而
可將該項技術之發展予以落實，以擴大未
來行動定位服務之應用領域及成效。 
 
五、參考文獻 
[1] 張嘉強，樓璧卿，吳家旗（2007），
運用無線射頻辨識系統(RFID)偵測及
管理室內移動路徑，測量工程，第 49
卷，第 3-4 期，第 5-18 頁。 
[2] 張嘉強、樓壁卿、謝侑均（2010），
運用雷達式 RFID 感測資料之室內定
位管理系統，第八屆測量學術論文研
討會，中國測量工程學會，台中，第
119-139 頁。 
[3] Bryant, R. (2005), Assisted GPS- Using 
Cellular Telephone Networks for GPS 
Anywhere, GPS World, May 2005, pp. 
40-45. 
[4] Carver, C. (2005), Myths and Realities 
of Anywhere GPS- High Sensitivity 
versus Assisted Techniques, GPS World, 
September 2005, pp. 30-41. 
[5] Chang, C. C., P. C. Lou and H. Y. Chen 
(2008), Designing and Implementing a 
RFID-based Indoor Guidance System, 
Journal of Global Positioning Systems, 
Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 27-34. 
[6] Küpper, A. (2005), Location-based 
Services: Fundamentals and Operation, 
John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. 
[7] Lachapelle, G. (2004), GNSS Indoor 
Location Technologies, Journal of 
Global Positioning Systems, Vol. 3, No. 
1-2, pp. 2-11. 
[8] Lopez, X. R. (2004), Location-Based 
Services, Chapter 6, Telegeoinformatics: 
Location-based Computing and Services, 
Edited by H. A. Karimi and A. Hammad, 
CRC Press, pp. 171-188. 
[9] Ni, L. M. Y. Liu, Y. C. Lau and A. P. 
Patil (2006), LANDMARC: Indoor 
Location Sensing Using Active RFID, 
Proceedings of the 1st IEEE 
International Conference on Pervasive 
Computing and Communications, 9 
pages. 
  
 
8
 2
Council）」假濟州島（Jeju）國際會議中心（International Conventional 
Center, ICC）所舉辦之國際學術研討會。GPS/GNSS 2009 研討會之整個議程
係於 2009 年 11 月 4 日至 6 日舉行，其中第一天為「GPS 民用服務介面委員會
（Civil GPS Service Interface Committee, CGSIC）」的工作報告及大會的
開幕演講，其他會議日程中的 5、6 兩日則全為口頭論文及海報論文的發表時
段。由於本次會議屬於中小型之國際研討會，出席人數約 150 人，與會人員國
籍分布約為 15 國，論文發表篇數計有口頭論文 92 篇及海報論文 36 篇（共計
128 篇）。國外與會人員以亞洲國家的日本出席最多，我國參與人數約為 20
人，於出席國家中排名第 2高，國內參與的單位除清雲科技大學應用空間資訊
外，尚有國立成功大學的測量及空間資訊系、電機系、航太系，國立海洋大學
的導航系，以及中央研究院地球科學研究所等多個單位。由於本次會議之論文
成果發表場次較多，因此大會安排有 4 個會議廳舉行論文發表，另有 1間展示
廳安排以 GPS 信號模擬器、GPS 晶片、GPS 接收儀為主之衛星導航相關之軟硬
體儀器展示。 
GPS/GNSS 2009 研討會於 2009 年 11 月 4 日開幕，當天上午的相關活動先
以 CGSIC 工作小組之報告為主，CGSIC 為美國 GPS 官方與民間 GPS 使用者之間
進行有效交流活動之全球論壇，其任務在於辨認 GPS 的民用需求（如導航、計
時、定位等），以支持美國運輸部從事有關 GPS 民用資訊交流的對外服務計畫，
並對美國 GPS 官方主管單位提供 GPS 政策發展與服務運作有關之資訊。 
CGSIC 工作小組之報告內容包括：CGSIC 國際委員會主席 John Wilde 的
 4
項會議應已成功展現一定程度之影響性。 
二、 與會心得 
1. 由於GPS/GNSS衛星導航定位之領域已屬發展成熟階段，會議之參與人員除
以學界同仁為主外，許多各國政府之技術推動執行單位亦有代表參加，加
上實務應用之業界同仁的參與，使得這項研討會出現在學術研究之外，也
有許多實務成果與政策發展之發表，內容相當豐富。 
2. 近年來除美國與俄羅斯以外，另已提出國家級導航衛星計畫的新興國家地
區，如歐盟的Galileo衛星導航系統、中國大陸的Compass衛星導航系統、
印度的IRNSS衛星導航系統與日本的QZSS衛星導航系統，都已受到全球導航
業界的廣大期待。 
3. 此次大會共規劃有17個議程，其主題及論文篇數分屬： 
• GNSS接收器技術（4篇） 
• 室內導航及地面應用（4篇） 
• 大氣（電離層）效應（7篇） 
• 大氣（對流層）效應（5篇） 
• GNSS增益及應用（4篇） 
• GNSS信號處理（8篇） 
• 虛擬衛星應用（3篇） 
• 整體性監控（4篇） 
• 計時應用（5篇） 
 6
三、 考察參觀活動（無參加） 
四、 建議 
1. GPS/GNSS 2009研討會所探討的多數議題多以實務應用面作出發，可提供學
界與業界人員交換心得及經驗之機會，我國相關學界及業界團體出席此項
會議之代表已日益增多。國立成功大學亦已爭取到此項會議於2010年在我
國召開之主辦權，國內各相關之公私單位應多加參與，藉此機會尋求與國
際間技術交流與應用服務之合作空間。 
2. 我國將於2010年主辦GPS/GNSS 2010國際研討會，有鑒於國內政府單位及民
間產業參與是項研討會之機緣較為不足，未免屆時僅有學界人員參與而顯
實力單薄，舉辦單位亦可考量同步安排同場地另一場次的國內研討活動，
以求擴大人員參與，進而顯示我國在GPS/GNSS領域的積極參與。 
3. 除美國與俄羅斯已有現行之衛星導航系統之外，歐盟的Galileo、中國大陸
的Compass、印度的IRNSS與日本的QZSS等衛星導航系統，都已正式進行推
動程序。我國發展太空計畫多年，除了遙測與大氣衛星以外，導航衛星所
需之布設數量雖然較多，但也不失為另一種發展方向的選擇。 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. Program and Abstracts 
2. Proceedings CD 
六、 其他(無) 
architecture for vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure systems using a scalable, flexible system with over-the-air 
messaging and an onboard design to enable a range of in-vehicle safety features has been practically investigated [Basnayake, 
2009]. Furthermore, the development of the so-called Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) is also in great demand [Zhao, 
1997]. ITS is expected to provide a solution for daily encountered transportation problems, such as traffic accidents, traffic jams, 
energy consumption, and environmental pollution etc. The architecture of the ITS consists of a logic frame, which is to define the 
working function and interoperation of each component, and an entity frame, which is to manage the relationship between the 
driver, vehicle, and control center as well as to serve the data communication between each component. The wide application 
related to the ITS is summarized and shown in Figure 1. 
 
Figure 1. Application domains of ITS. 
 
From a vehicular management point of view, ITS is fundamental and essential to acquire a time series of the locations from cars 
with any device, such as a GPS receiver, on-board. It is also important to realize the optimal operation of stand-alone GPS 
positioning solutions, particularly based on a low cost of L1 receiver, to provide the best estimates of the traveled distance and its 
derivative, the velocity [Wieser, 2008]. This paper starts with the investigation of using GPS range-based coordinates and some 
operation models to determine the best working functions and parameters for the computation of traveled distance. Based on the 
distance computation algorithm decided, a mileage management system was developed to mainly work for business vehicle 
management, in particular the realization of the vehicle’s trajectory, mileage, speed, toll, and parking. Moreover, a golf fairway 
management system was also designed to assist the control center monitoring the golf carts on site and dispatching the players to a 
suitable golf lane. 
 
As the vehicular management information systems described in this paper are prototypes and the communication module has not 
been practically applied, the functions designed for efficient management have only been tested in an off-line mode so far. 
However, the spatial information provided by GPS has been adequately utilized and verified with the information systems to meet 
the requirements of vehicular management. 
 
2. Distance Computation Models 
 
To accurately compute the traveled distance from GPS stand-alone position solutions for a vehicle, a set of trial data was applied 
with two operation algorithms, namely the data interval approach and the vertical offset approach. As a fact that missing data is 
inevitable during travel periods when the GPS signal was obstructed, a refined type of position solutions worked with a curve 
 8
 (3) Curve Fitting Approach 
 
The curve fitting approach is normally applied to express the mathematical relationship between the input and the output variables. 
In this study, a sequential of data points is inputted with the times and coordinates, in terms of the 2-dimensional coordinates. A 
mathematical function tested to be the best fitted is given to trace the road pattern with a numerical output (see Figure 4 as an 
example). 
 
The main task of the fitting process is the determination of the type and coefficient belonging to the mathematical function. When 
the GPS raw data are collected by the vehicles and the coordinate solutions are computed, the curve fitting process can be carried 
out to provide a best fitting function for the users to establish a smoothing-like coordinate data set without any data missing. This 
refined type of data set can then be processed with either the data interval or the vertical offset approach to finally obtain the 
traveled distance for any application. 
 
 
fitted curve
Figure 4. Curve fitting to GPS data points. 
 
3. Distance Analysis 
 
3.1 Field Trial 
 
A regular road of 9 km in length and 10 m in width, located in Tahsi Township, Taoyuan County, Taiwan, was selected by this 
field trial for its low traffic flow, easy control of the speed, and a variety of the road patterns, including curves and straight lines 
(see Figure 5).   
 
 10
Figure 5. Test road for field trial on distance computation 
Table 2. Distance computation errors with an average speed. 
Raw Data Fitted Data 
Error Data  
Interval Vertical Offset 
Data  
Interval Vertical Offset 
Max. Value (m) -4.76 -6.87 -38.86 40.08 
Max. Ratio (%) 0.05 0.08 0.43 0.44 
Avg. Value (m) 3.13 3.49 13.92 32.45 
Avg. Ratio (%) 0.03 0.04 0.15 0.36 
 
It is also noticed from Table 1 that the best operation parameters for data interval and vertical offset are located between 5 and 9 
seconds as well as 2.8 m and 7.3 m, respectively, associated with different vehicle speeds. Therefore, it would be a key point to 
propose the optimal parameters simply utilized by the two computation models for car speed with 40 to 70 km/hr in general. 
Figure 6 is the investigation of optimal value applied to the data interval approach, where the computation errors under all test 
speeds are averaged and plotted with different data intervals for analysis.   
 
Figure 6. Distance computation errors with different data intervals applied. 
 
It can be seen in Figure 6 that the correlation coefficient (R) between the numbers of data interval and the distance computation 
errors is more than 0.9. This high correlation is evident that the data interval is the determinant factor in the distance computation 
error. As the error trend line crossing the x-axis is also found, it represents a phenomenon that the absolute distance error is 
increased when the interval number adopted is apart from the optimal data interval. Therefore, the selection of the optimal 
parameters for the distance computation models is realized to be the node of error trend line passing through the x-axis. The 
optimal parameters of 7 seconds and 5.2 m are then seen in Figure 6 and Figure 7 for data interval and vertical offset approach, 
respectively. 
 
Figure 7. Distance computation errors with different vertical offsets applied. 
 12
 14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Operation flow for vehicular management system. 
 
Some representative functions, such as trajectory display, mileage display, speed display, and detailed list, provided by the system 
for the vehicle management are displayed and briefly introduced as following. 
 
(1) Trajectory display 
 
The trajectory traveled by the vehicle with GPS recorder on-board can be plotted by the system with a sequential blue dot (see 
Figure 9). The system also provides a function to zoom in, zoom out, or shifting the map for a better appearance to the trajectory. 
 
 
Figure 9. System display for vehicle’s trajectory. 
(2) Mileage display 
 
As seen in Figure 10, the total traveled distance of the vehicle is shown on the upper left, and the toll paid for freeway driving is 
on the upper middle. In addition, when the user picks up any point along the trajectory, the system can show the information on 
the upper right for the traveled distance, toll, speed, and coordinates (longitude and latitude) at that specified epoch. Also seen in 
Figure 10, the lower part of the figure, from the left to the right, shows the mileage information for the total parking period, 
parking fees, over-speed and traffic jam mileage, respectively.  
 
 
Figure 12. System display for a detailed list of management information. 
 
4.2 Evaluation of Distance Function 
 
Besides the above-displayed traveled information with the system functions developed, a numerical test, mainly focused on the 
mileage information of the traveled distance, was also carried out to ensure the effective and reliable operation of the system 
functions. Two field trial data sets recorded on a section of freeway and regular roadway were collected for a round trip to check 
up the repeatability of the distance computation values. The trajectories of the field trials are shown in Figure 13 and Figure 14 for 
two types of road, and the test values are listed in Table 4. 
 
 
Figure 13. Field test trajectory for a freeway section. 
 
 
Figure 14. Field test trajectory for a regular roadway section. 
 
 16
Three main frames including image rectification, system interface, and database content were all designed and developed for the 
system. The detailed working items in the three main frames cover the image rectification processing for satellite image and GPS 
locations, the system interfaces operating for graphic display, fairway dispatch as well as player record maintenance, and the 
database contents designing for players’ performance as well as fairway usage. 
 
5.2 System Operation 
 
After program coding and function test, the information system was carried out for golf fairway management. The main functions 
working for this system are displayed and described as follows.  
 
As can be seen in Figure 16, the system platform is exhibited for the main working functions, along with the satellite image-based 
map, the golf hole number, and an example of golf cart’s trajectory on the fairway. On the top of the figure, is the function area for 
the system operation, where the information for crowded or unused fairways and the data of golf cart playing on a normal duty or 
dispatching for an alternative fairway can all be found with the text descriptions.  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 16. System platform and golf cart’s trajectory. 
 
To ensure the system’s working functions, a data set collected on site with the designed scenarios were operated by the system to 
test its effectiveness in an off-line basis. In Figure 17, the system shows a case of four golf carts playing at the hole 1 altogether to 
start the game. However, the control center understands this situation through the information system, and makes an spatial 
arrangement to dispatch cart 4 jumping to the hole 2 to play there first (see Figure 18). This management decision can definitely 
save much waiting time for the players and increase the playing quality for the golf course. Moreover, the system can also show 
all the dispatching information and playing records with a detailed list and store them in a database (see Figure 19 and Figure 20). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18
Figure 20 Detailed list for player record 
 
6. Concluding Remarks 
 
Based on the GPS-based point positioning solution, the selected operation algorithms relied on the data interval, vertical offset, 
and curve fitting for vehicle’s traveled distance have been tested to investigate the effectiveness. Two information systems focused 
on using GPS-based locations and the management functions for vehicular mileage and golf fairways have also been developed. 
Some concluding remarks are summarized as follows: 
(1) The data interval approach using every 7 seconds GPS raw data-based, rather than curve fitting data-based, coordinate solution 
to compute the chord length and accumulate the stepwise lengths into a traveled distance provided the best distance estimates 
with an error ratio of 0.11%. 
(2) As the tests carried on by this study are only based on a lower speed of the vehicle and a qualitative-oriented, instead of a 
quantitative-oriented, investigation, it is suggested to widely collect more types of field data to set up the proper algorithm with 
the best operation parameters, in order to ensure the future application of the GPS-based odometer. 
(3) With a repeatability of 0.85% for distance computation, an information system working for many management functions, such 
as vehicular trajectory, mileage, speed, toll, and parking etc., has been developed and expected to serve the manager to enhance 
the management efficiency. 
(4) Based on the fairway dispatch requirement for the golf course, an information system working with the golf cart-based GPS 
receiver has also been designed and operated. The function of providing the golf cart locations, fairway dispatching 
arrangement, and player records are tested to be effective to increase the service quality of the golf course. 
 
Acknowledgement  
 
The first author is grateful to the National Science Council of the ROC for travel support under the project of 
NSC98-2221-E-231-026. 
 
Reference 
 
1. snayake, C.: Positioning for Driver Assistance: Communication on the Road. GPS World, Vol. 20, No. 4, pp. 28-36 (2009). 
2. Civilis, A., Jensen, C.S. and Pakalnis, S.: Techniques for Efficient Road-Network-Based Tracking of Moving Objects. IEEE 
Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Vol. 17, No. 5, pp. 698-712 (2005). 
 20
無研發成果推廣資料 
