行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
新型埋藏式立體射頻微機電元件與模組之研究與整合 
 
A Study of Novel Embedded 3D RFMEMS Devices and Module 
計畫編號: NSC 95-2221-E-009-038 
執行日期: 民國 95 年 8/1 至 民國 96 年 7/31 
主持人：周復芳 國立交通大學電信研究所副教授 
研究生：吳匯儀、吳俊緯、 沈宜星、林智鵬、方瑞嫻、蔡宇清、熊子豪 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
關鍵字：共平面波導，低通濾波器，特徵值阻抗，
三維埋藏式共平面波導 
 
傳統的共平面波導式的傳輸線一般受到其有
限的可用的特徵值阻抗範圍所限制，特別是在高
特徵值阻抗和低特徵值阻抗時，傳輸線的損耗會
大幅的提昇[1]。 在這十年內，為了解決傳輸線
損耗的問題，許多種特性良好的改良式共平面波
導傳輸線陸續被發表，主要目的是為了減少傳輸
線在微波頻段下的損耗而使平面電路可用在更高
的頻帶。[2] ~ [11] 
在此計畫中，一個新型的三維埋藏式共平面
波導，其中央和接地導線的兩端被部份往下折並
互相重疊在矽基板中。此架構的共平面波導可以
達到大範圍的特徵值阻抗和低損耗的特性，跟其 
他相關的低特徵值阻抗傳輸線相比，本計畫中的
結構又更容易製作。 
為了驗證此架構之可行性, 一個由三維埋藏
式的共平面波導所構成運用在  X-band 的 
0.5-dB equiripple Chebyshev 七段步階式阻抗濾
波器被設計和製作出來，並證實了低阻抗的三維
埋藏式的共平面波導傳輸線可以作為 lumped 電
容，解決了由 disturbuted 元件組成的架構所帶來
的問題。跟由傳統的共平面波導濾波器相比，三
維埋藏式共平面波導濾波器顯示了明顯的優點如 
微小化、低損耗、sharp skirt characteristics and wide 
stopband ..等優點。 
  
 
Abstract 
Keyword：Coplanar waveguide (CPW) ， Low pass 
filter (LPF) ， characteristic impedance (Zo) ，
3-D embedded CPW  
 
CPW-based transmission lines generally 
suffer from limited usable impedance ranges. 
Especially at high and low characteristic impedance 
(Zo), the line losses of CPW lines tend to increase 
rapidly extremes as shown in [1]. In order to solve 
the loss issue, a variety of modified CPW 
transmission lines that have many promising 
features for applications in high performance and 
millimeter-wave circuit are being proposed in the 
decade years [2] ~ [11]. The main attempts are to 
reduce the loss of the transmission lines at 
millimeter-wave frequencies as to extend the 
frequency limits of the planar circuit.  
In this project, a novel 3-D embedded CPW 
structure, in which the central and ground plates are 
partially bended and overlapped within the silicon 
substrate. The broad ranges of characteristic 
impedance and low losses can be achieved by using 
the proposed 3-D structure. The structure proposed 
in this project is sample comparing to other relative 
low-Zo CPW lines structures. Only 2 masks are 
needed in the process.  
    To demonstrate the practical usefulness of the 
3-D embedded CPW, an X-band 0.5-dB equiripple 
Chebyshev seven-section stepped-impedance 
low-pass filter (LPF) has been designed and 
fabricated using the proposed CPW lines. It is 
shown that low-Zo 3-D embedded CPW lines can 
 
 
Fig. 2 (a) ~ (d) are the SEM pictures of Cu film 
deposition with DC sputtering onto the trenches 
with different aspect ratio followed with XeF2 
isotropic etching. 
 
 
．三維埋藏式共平面波導之設計與模擬 (Design 
and Simulation of 3-D embedded CPW) 
The schematic of a 3-D embedded CPW is 
shown in Fig. 3 together with the associated 
parameters. The edges of the center conductor and 
ground plane are partially bended using 
micromachining techniques and two of them are 
overlapped with each other. It can be easily varied 
the characteristic impedance from high-Zo to 
low-Zo by increasing the overlap (“D” in Fig. 3) 
between the center conductor and the ground. The 
3-D embedded CPW helps to reduce the conductor 
loss by reducing the field concentration and current 
crowding at the edges of the signal lines. Moreover, 
the 3-D embedded CPW is expected to reduce not 
only the conductor loss, but also the substrate loss 
by confining the electric field in the air between the 
overlapped conductor plates.  
The loss analysis of both the 3-D embedded 
CPW ( W = 10, 20 and 30μm ; D = 5, 10, 20, 40, 
and 80μm) and CPW ( and W = 40, 30, 20, 5 and 
2μm) lines is performed using a 525-μm-thick 
silicon substrate (  = 11.9 ) and the metal plane 
thickness is set to be 1μm. In the 3-D embedded 
CPW, the width of the center conductor touching 
the substrate is fixed at 27μm (S = 27μm). All 
simulations have been carried out at 20 GHz with a 
commercial electromagnetic (EM) simulator 
(Ansoft HFSS). The simulation results are shown in 
Fig. 4. From Fig. 4, as CPW and 3-D ECPW 
consume the same surface area, 3-D ECPW can 
reach lower characteristic impedance. In case of the 
CPW lines, it is practically impossible to achieve 
the values of characteristic impedance lower than 30 
Ω. Due to the limit of photolithography, the 
minimum spacing between the signal and ground 
lines is about 2 μm. On the contrary, a wide 
impedance range down to 20 Ω can easily be 
obtained by controlling the overlap (D) in the 3-D 
embedded CPW.  
As shown in Fig. 4, the loss of 3-D embedded 
CPW lines with a trench width 20μm is maintained 
to less than 2 dB over a wide impedance range from 
20 to 70 Ω, while that of the CPW line increases 
rapidly as the impedance decreases below 30–40 Ω.  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Cross section view of CPW and 3-D ECPW  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 Comparison of calculated loss for 3-D 
 
 
Fig. 6 Simulated and measured return loss of the 
short LWA with the open end 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7 Simulation results of both CPW and 3-D 
embedded CPW filters. 
 
 
 
 
四、結論與展望  
本計劃完成了部份新型的埋藏式立體射頻微
機電元件的模擬及實作，並將其實際應用在微波
元件上。但由於此計畫本為三年之計畫，卻因人
為疏失，而忘了提報並接續計畫，所以時間上較
為緊湊，無法達到與其他元件整合構成獨立之
RFMEMS 模組和 CMOS MEMS 之整合，在此部分我
們如有機會，將會在之後的計畫繼續做研究，以
達到此計畫的完整性。 
 
 
五、參考文獻 
[1] R. N. Simons, CoplanarWaveguide Circuits, 
Components, and Systems, Wiley, New York, 
2001. 
[2] CHAM, K. M., and CHIANG. s. Y.: 'A study of 
the trench surface inversion problem in the 
trench CMOS technology', IEEE Electron Dei.. 
Left., 1983, EDL-4, pp. 303-305 
[3] KIMLIKA. M.. and MIYAMOTO, T.: 'Optical 
waveguides along both sides of :I groove in 
silicon', Jpn. J . Appl. Phys., 1980, 19, pp. 
L372-L374 
[4] K. C. Gupta, R. Garg, I. Bahl, and P. Bhartia, 
Microstrip Lines and Slotlines, Artech House, 
Norwood, MA, 1996. 
[5]. U. Bhattacharya, S. Allen, and M. J. W. 
Rodwell, DC-725GHz sampling circuits and 
subpicosecond nonlinear transmission lines 
using elevated coplanar waveguide, IEEE 
Microwave Guided Wave Lett. 5(2):50–52 
(1995). 
[6]. S. Hofschen and I. Wolff, Simulation of an 
elevated coplanar waveguide using 2-D FDTD, 
IEEE Microwave Guided Wave Lett. 6(1):28–30 
(1996). 
[7]. G. E. Ponchak and L. P. B. Katehi, Measured 
attenuation of coplanar waveguide on CMOS 
grade silicon substrates with polyimide interface 
layer, IEE Electron. Lett. 34(13):1327–1329 
(1998). 
[8]. C. M. Nam and Y. S. Kwon, Coplanar 
waveguide on silicon substrate with thick 
oxidized porous silicon (OPS) layer, IEEE 
Microwave Guided Wave Lett. 8(11):369–371 
(1998). 
[9]. K. J. Herrick, T. A. Schwarz, and L. P. B. 
Katehi, Si-micromachined coplanar waveguides 
for use in high-frequency circuits, IEEE Trans. 
出國會議心得報告 
本學期共參加兩次的國際學術會議，分別為在北京舉辦的 PIERS 和夏威夷舉辦
的 MTT-S,本實驗室在兩個會議中皆有發表論文。以下心得皆分為兩個部分報告 
Part 1.為 piers 的部分, Part 2 為 mtt-s 的部分. 
 
 
Part 1: 研討會 PIERS 回國心得報告書 
 
   這次去大陸的北京之旅，主要是參訪辦在北京市中心的研討會議，名為
PIERS 2007＂(Progress In Electromagnetic Research Symposium)。舉辦時間為
2007 年三月 26 號到 30 號為期六天的會議行程，地點在中苑大飯店(The 
Central Garden Hotel)的二樓會議大廳。26 號早上八點，我們即抵達會議現
場，先到櫃檯辦理登記報到的手續，並且領取相關作業文件，由於我們是
選擇使用貼海報的方式來呈現自己的研究專題，因此必須在 26 號早上，就
要布置好自己的作品，並且站立在一旁以供來賓們提出發問時能夠在第一
時間解答或是互相討論。此次個人發表的專題包含以下兩篇論文: 
 
I. A.A Low-power Quadrature VCO Using Current-reused Technique and 
Back-gate Coupling. Yu-Ching Tsai, Yi-Shing Shen, Christina. F. Jou. 
II. B.A Fully-integrated Low Power , Fast-locking, Integer-N Frequency 
Synthesizer for MB-OFDM UWB System. Shih-Hao Tarng, Yu-Ching Tsai, 
Christina. F. Jou. 
 
過程中我們也多到處去參觀其他學生的海報和他們的研究，並且到口
頭報告的會議廳聆聽專家們的激辯對答，可說是獲益良多。其中，與會的
來賓們不乏白髮蒼蒼或是年邁以老的教授級人物，年歲一把還對此類相關
電機研究充滿濃厚的興趣，不禁讓我們後生晚輩佩服不已，第一天中午會
議現場並有準備貼心的 Banquet 供所有參予者免費使用，大家也可藉此機
會，和外國學者聊聊研究方向，實驗心得，或者他國的民俗風情，或者他
們對學生的建議，正確觀念的培養。 
  此次到大陸的北京之旅受到了許多國外人事的指導，也使自己對研
究內容又新的想法和方向，希望回國之後能在研究方面更上一層樓。感謝
實驗室學長們去年 meeting 時不厭其煩的講解和教導我們各種專業知識，
並且在實驗室指導教授周復芳老師的敦促和領導之下，大家才有機會到北
京參加這次 PIEES 所舉辦的研討會，同時也感謝系上和國科會的補助，使
