 - 2 -
1. 中文摘要 
三維晶片在過去數年中成為相當重要的新
興技術。三維晶片有許多優點，包括製造成本
較低、低功耗、降低二維的通訊瓶頸且適用於
不同製程之元件於單一系統中完成。在三維晶
片 中 其 中 一 項 重 要 的 技 術 為 矽 穿 孔
(Through-Silicon Via, TSV)。然而矽穿孔技術仍
面臨許多不同的挑戰，其中三維晶片測試所需
的工具與方法被視為重大的挑戰。 
IEEE 1149.7 提供了一種降低晶片接腳數目
之測試方法，同時也增加原本 IEEE 1149.1 
(JTAG)之測試功能，維持 IEEE 1149.1 的向下相
容性也能提升除錯效能。IEEE 1149.7 所增加的
功能有，功率管理、掃描鍊輸入之最佳化等。
這個重要的測試與除錯介面相當適用於多核之
系統單晶片以及三維晶片。 
2.  Abstract 
Three-dimensional integrated circuit (3D IC) 
has attracted many attentions in recent years. 
There are enormous benefits including lower cost, 
lower power, alleviating 2D communication 
bottleneck and make possible the integration of 
the heterogeneous design. One of the most 
important techniques in 3D ICs is the 
Through-Silicon Via (TSV) technology. However, 
there are still many challenges about the TSV. 
Testing is regards as one of the most difficult 
challenges.  
IEEE 1149.7 offers a means to reduce chip 
pins dedicated to test (and debug) access while 
enhancing the functionality of the Test Access 
Port (TAP) as a complementary superset of the 
original IEEE 1149.1 (JTAG). Extended features 
such as hot-plug immunity, power management, 
optimization of scan throughput, access to 
instrumentation. This important advancement in 
test and debug interfaces is well suited for access 
to multiple cores on SOC or multiple die in SIP or 
3D-IC. 
 
Figure 1. Adaption 0f 1149.1 to 1149.7 
 
3.  Background of IEEE 1149.7 : IEEE 1149.1 
 Since IEEE 1149.7 is the complementary 
superset of IEEE 1149.1 (aka. JTAG), it is useful 
to understand what IEEE 1149.1 is. 
3.1  IEEE 1149.1 basic architecture 
The basic infrastructure of 1149.1 Boundary 
Scan is incorporated at the chip level: 
(1) TAPs: 
First, 4 pins (optionally 5) are dedicated to 
Boundary Scan, forming the Test Access Port 
(TAP). TDI (test data in), TDO (test data out), 
TMS (test mode select), and TCK (test clock). An 
optional pin TRST (test reset) is also defined. 
When the signal is low, it reset the internal state 
machine. These pins are controlled by a single 
protocol to communicate with on-chip Boundary 
Scan logic. The single protocol is driven by TMS 
and TCK pins, while TDI and TDO are used to 
serially shift data in and out of the IC. 
(2) TAP controller: 
On the IC die itself, a single finite state 
machine with 16-state (TAP controller) is added 
with TMS and TCK as its inputs. Outputs include 
ClockDR, UpdateDR, shiftDR, ClockDR, 
UpdateDR, ShiftDR, Select, Enable and the 
optional TRST. The TAP controller recognizes the 
 - 4 -
adapted at low cost. As the result, IEEE 1149.7 
has achieved such benefits such as: 
(1) Reduce multi-chip scan chain for faster 
debugging. 
(2) Equivalent performance with few pins. 
(3) Glue-less star configuration for multi-chip 
module or stacked-die manufacturing. 
(4) Reduce pins while adding functions. 
(5) Low power thanks to test and debug logic 
power-down modes. 
4.2 Supported Classes 
The IEEE 1149.7 features and functions are 
divided into 6 classes (T0-T5). Each class is built 
on the basis of the previous classes. Classes T0 to 
T3 are compliant to IEEE 1149.1 and extend the 
TAP protocol to support additional functions. 
Classes T4 to T5 are used to implement advanced 
function by only two pins. There are some 
functional units designed as: Advanced Protocol 
Unit (APU), Extended Protocol Unit (EPU), 
Pin-sharing Logic (PSL), and Rest and Selection 
Unit (RSU). These functional units are invoked 
for their corresponding classes. 
 
Figure 2. The Overview of TAP.7 Architecture 
4.2.1 Class T0 
As the fundamental of IEEE 1149.7, class T0 
is totally compliant to 1149.1, including the 
mandatory boundary scan architecture. In this 
class, the mandatory instructions should behave 
like specified in 1149.1. After the test-logic-rest 
state, all devices should conform to the mandatory 
1149.1 instruction behavior and implement a 1-bit 
DR scan for bypass instruction. 
4.2.2 Class T1 
Class T1 gives the support for IEEE 1149.7 
command protocols, which enables the advanced 
functions of the subsequent classes without 
changing the existing 1149.1 state machine. The 
key innovation of using 1149.1 TAP is to counting 
the state shifting that has no effect to the normal 
operation to create the control mechanism.  
The 1149.7 control system uses the BYPASS 
and IDCODE instructions combined with a series 
of 1149.1 sequences. These sequences are called 
Zero-Bit DR Scans (ZBS). The ZBS begins at the 
Select-DR-Scan state and proceeds to an 
Update-DR state without entering the Shift-DR 
state. 
 
Figure 3. Zero-Bit-Scan Sequence 
The control system depends on counting the 
 - 6 -
To implement this feature, class T4 use the 
star glue-less configuration used in class T3 
without TDI and TDO. In addition to use the 
two-pin operations, class T4 supports either a 
narrow (2-wire operation) or a wide (4-pin 
operation) implementation, allowing designers to 
save pins on their devices. To maintain the 
performance for 2-pin operation, the clock rate 
can be doubled. 
4.2.6  Class T5 
To implement this feature, class T4 use the 
star glue-less configuration used in class T3 
without TDI and TDO. In addition to use the 
two-pin operations, class T4 supports either a 
narrow (2-wire operation) or a wide (4-pin 
operation) implementation, allowing designers to 
save pins on their devices. To maintain the 
performance for 2-pin operation, the clock rate 
can be doubled. 
5.  Wrapper flow 
Figure 6 shows the overall flow of the 
wrapper and each step is described as below: 
(1) At first, read the circuits with JTAG. Circuits 
with JTAG are obtained from the previous 
work of our lab. The circuits with JTAG could 
be combinational or sequential circuits.  
(2) Then, analyze each circuit’s port information, 
which would be used to connect each circuit 
together. In this step, designers can report the 
info file to check if each port is read in the info 
file. 
(3) Since each implemented class should be 
specified in previous. In this step, designers 
could select classes from class T0 to class T5 
according to their need of the chip. The 
program would connect each device and 
implement the corresponding control 
mechanism. After implementation, the 
program would show the summary of the 
CJTAG. 
(4) At last, designers could save the chip with 
CJTAG into verilog form. 
 
Figure 6. Overall Wrapper Flow 
 
6. Conclusion 
IEEE 1149.7 provides a test and debug 
interface that is complementary superset of the 
IEEE 1149.1. By way of options for reduced pins 
and for enhanced functionality, IEEE 1149.7 
offers an access mechanism that is suited for 
multiple cores system on SOC or multiple dies in 
SIP system.  
While the enhanced functionality is necessary 
to support the reduced-pin operations, it also 
provides a number of features that improve the 
test process. Such features include power 
management, optimization of scan throughput, 
access to debug instrumentation, and access to 
custom debug technologies. 
7. Reference 
[Goering 08] R. Goering, “'Compact JTAG' standard targets 
on-chip debug,” SCDsource, 2008, 
http://www.scdsource.com/article.php?id=310 
