 2
at different locations, may present different 
sizes of area to the thermal image, the 
non-target blocks were removed, using area 
thresholds, to ensure the accuracy of the count 
of the broilers. 
The experimental results indicate that, 
when the thermal camera is at a height of 160 
cm from the ground, at an angle of 30° to the 
horizontal, the captured thermal images have 
better measurement results. The thermal image 
analysis procedures firstly use a Gaussian filter, 
with a mask size of 7×7, to smooth the 
processing of the images. Thereafter, the 
MATLAB automatic threshold function is used 
to segment high temperature blocks from 
background. A median filter, with a mask size 
of 5×5, is then used to remove the image noise 
and finally, watershed method is used to 
segment connected blocks.  
The block size (pixel amount) of the 
broiler head block is then identified. As broilers 
of same size, at different locations, may occupy 
different sizes of area, in the image, the use of 
different area thresholds in the thermal imaging 
requires the establishment of a horizontal border 
line, to divide the image into the upper and 
lower parts. The results of analysis suggest that, 
by establishing the border line, at a Y-axis 
coordinate value of 100, the upper area 
threshold at 60 pixels, and the lower part area 
threshold at 160 pixels and using the image 
processing procedure detailed above, the 
accuracy of the broiler count can be as much as 
90.3%. Once the location of the broiler head, in 
the thermal image, is determined, the average 
body temperature and other temperature 
characteristics can be calculated, according to 
the temperature values of the determined 
location. 
Keywords: thermal image, broiler flock, 
temperature measurement. 
ㄧ、前言 
隨著畜牧產業自動化的發展，飼養環境的
監控成為生產管理的重要問題。在肉雞的生
產管理方面，環境品質能影響雞隻的健康和
產能，尤其環境溫度更是影響雞隻生長的最
重要因素之一，溫度過高會導致雞隻死亡率
增高和生長率降低。新興的肉雞飼養方式多
為集約生產，以自動化擴大生產規模，大幅
提高了飼養密度，然而也增高了單位空間內
的熱量生成，若沒有適當的環控機制，雞舍
內容易有熱集中，而產生溫度異常。一般都
以環境溫度作為判斷雞隻是否有熱緊迫的主
要依據（Bucklin et al.，1993；Buffington et al.，
1981；Oliveira and Esmay，1982），但環境溫
度並不足以代表雞隻本身的感受，而雞體溫
度才是雞隻對環境的反應指標（May et al.， 
1987）。正常雞體溫度約為 41-42℃，當環境
溫度上升時，血管會擴張以減少表皮組織的
絕緣性，所以雞冠和腳部會有較多血液循
環，皮表溫度因而上升，可增加熱量的散失。
雞隻為排除體熱會加速呼吸速率，增加飲水
量，飼料攝取量下降，糞便中水分含量增加
造成墊料潮濕，影響雞隻健康。因此若以雞
體溫度輔助雞舍環控策略的制定，應能提高
生產管理的效能。 
此外，台灣地處東南亞水域航道樞紐，也
是南北往來遷徙的候鳥主要中繼站之一，由
於候鳥與水禽是禽流感病毒的主要來源，雞
隻感染流感會有發燒、精神差、食慾減退等
臨床症狀，利用發燒會造成溫度升高的病理
特徵，直接量測雞體溫度就能判斷雞群是否
健康。一旦發現所飼養之雞群有任何異狀，
就可立即向動檢所通報，以便防疫人員能到
場進行動物檢診工作，進而減少疫病所導致
之損失，並防止疫情擴散蔓延。 
一般雞隻的溫度是以溫度計量測雞隻的
直腸溫度，此方式除了會驚擾雞群，使其騷
動而提高體溫之外，也必須人工操作，無法
大量和自動的量測，所以要達到雞群體溫的
 4
為 160 公分大約為成年人眼睛高度，方便由
人工進行熱影像擷取的工作。最後以影像分
析得到雞隻數量，並和可見光拍攝的結果比
較，分析各種拍攝俯角的正確率。 
4.影像分析流程 
本研究使用紅外線熱像儀拍攝熱影像，取
得熱影像後，利用影像處理的方法，分割出
雞隻頭部的區塊，並分析畫面中雞隻的數量
及其個別溫度，再由 Visual Basic 所建構的人
機介面顯示溫度分佈。影像處理程序將分
為：影像擷取、影像平滑處理、影像分割、
面積過濾分析與雞隻計數。 
影像擷取是以熱像儀所拍攝的影像，直接
轉換為 mat 的檔案格式，然後匯入 MATLAB
中進行影像分析（Alasdair, 2004），如圖 2(a)
所示。 
為了降低影像的雜訊，並使分割後的目標
物（雞隻頭部）邊緣更為平滑，本研究在影
像分割之前執行了影像平滑處理。平均濾波
器（Average Filter）及高斯濾波器（Gaussian 
Filter）是兩種常見平滑處理的演算，它們對
影像所產生的平滑（模糊）程度均受到遮罩
大小的影響，遮罩愈大，影像平滑程度愈高。
為了獲得最好的前處理效果，本研究比較
3×3、5×5、7×7、9×9 等 4 種尺寸的遮罩，以
分析它們對後續處理的影響。圖 2(b)為原影像
經遮罩大小為 7×7 的高斯濾波後的執行結果。 
由於雞隻的頭部和腳部沒有羽毛覆蓋，所
以它們的溫度會比其他部位高，因此這兩個
部位在影像中會有較高的灰階值，可以容易
定出一個門檻值來區分它們。圖 2(c)是利用自
動閥值（Otsu, 1979）所建立的二值影像，圖
中較亮的區域是雞隻的頭部和腳部，暗的區
域是雞隻身體和背景。此外為了去除影像中
細微的雜訊點，我們執行了中值濾波器來濾
除它們，圖 2(d)為執行中值濾波後的結果。 
因雞群為活動的目標物，在影像擷取過程
中，可能有重疊的情形發生，因此使用分水
嶺將重疊的區塊分割（Meyer, 1994），確保
分析數量與實際數量相符，分割後如圖 2(e)
所示，圖中黑線區塊為可能的目標物。本試
驗是以 MATLAB 影像處理工具箱中的
Watershed函數及 bwdist距離轉換函數來執行
分水嶺運算，其中的距離轉換函式也比較了
Chessboard 與 Cityblock 兩種（Gonzalez and 
Woods, 2009）。 
本研究的目標物為雞隻頭部的區塊，但經
分水嶺處理之後的影像，仍存在面積較小的
非目標區塊，圖 2(e)中有一些小面積的區域即
屬於非目標物區塊。面積過濾分析就是要將
這些非目標物的區塊（圖 2(f)中黑色區塊）去
除，然後利用標記法（Labeling）（Haralick et 
al., 1992）計算剩餘區塊的數量，即為所求的
雞隻數量。 
面積過濾分析是以面積（pixel 數量）閥
值來區分目標物與非目標物，因為熱像儀拍
攝熱像時，是熱像儀在離地面特定高度，以
俯角向下方式擷取熱影像，因此實際上同樣
大小的目標物，落在影像中不同位置時，會
有 pixel 數量不同的情形發生，即相同大小的
目標物，在影像上方會有較小的面積。因此
在熱影像中不同位置設定不同的面積閥值，
用於過濾非目標物，降低誤判的情形發生。
面積過濾分析就是探討在影像垂直軸（y 軸）
座標選定一適合的位置，畫出一水平分界
線，將影像分成上下兩個區域，並在這兩個
區域訂定不同的面積門檻值，再利用此門檻
值將非目標物濾除。 
  
(a)     (b) 
  
(c)     (d) 
 6
示，以遮罩大小為 5×5 的高斯濾波器所求得
的誤差平均值最低，其值為 20.5%；以熱像儀
俯角為 30°向下拍攝的分析結果顯示，以遮罩
大小為 7×7 的高斯濾波器所求得的誤差平均
值最低，其值為 9.2%。 
 
圖 5. 熱像儀俯角為 20°、30°時，不同濾波方
式誤差圖 
針對俯角 20°及 30°的熱影像，2 種不同中
值濾波搭配 2 種距離轉換的組合下，所有影
像被處理後（800 outcomes）的誤差平均值如
圖 6 所示。由圖 6 中可以看出，熱像儀俯角
為 20°向下拍攝的分析結果顯示，以遮罩大小
為 3×3 的中值濾波器搭配 Cityblock 距離轉換
方式所求得的誤差平均值最低，其值為
22.6%；熱像儀俯角為 30°向下拍攝的分析結
果顯示，以遮罩大小為 5×5 的中值濾波器搭
配 Chessboard 距離轉換方式所求得的誤差平
均值最低，其值為 7.2%。 
 
 
圖 6. 熱像儀俯角為 20°、30°時，不同分水嶺
方式誤差圖 
在 4 種不同的 y 軸分界點下，所有影像被
處理後（800 outcomes）的誤差平均值如圖 7
所示。由圖 7 可看出，熱像儀俯角為 20°向下
拍攝的分析結果顯示，在分界點為 120，也就
是剛好以畫面中央為分界線的誤差平均值最
小，其誤差平均值為 19.9%；熱像儀俯角為
30°向下拍攝的分析結果顯示，在分界點為
100，也就是 Y 軸座標值為 0 至 100 所涵蓋的
範圍為上半部，其餘未涵蓋範圍則為下半
部，以這個分界點作區分的誤差平均值為
7.0%。 
 
圖 7. 熱像儀俯角為 20°、30°時，不同上下半
部範圍分界值平均誤差圖 
決定上下半部範圍的 y 軸分界點之後，接
著分析上半部和下半部面積閥值的影響。5 種
不同上半部面積的閥值下，所有影像被處理
後（480 outcomes）的誤差平均值如圖 8 所示。
由圖 8 可看出，熱像儀俯角為 20°向下拍攝的
分析結果顯示，在面積閥值為 40，也就是面
積大於 40 pixels 則判斷為目標物的誤差平均
值最小，其誤差平均值為 17.1%；熱像儀俯角
為 30°向下拍攝的分析結果顯示，在面積閥值
為 60 的誤差平均值最小，其誤差平均值為
6.1%。 
 
圖 8. 熱像儀俯角為 20°、30°時，不同上半部
面積閥值平均誤差圖 
5 種不同下半部面積的閥值下，所有影像
被處理後（480 outcomes）的誤差平均值如圖
9 所示。由圖 9 可看出，熱像儀俯角為 20°向
 8
Haralick, Robert M., and Linda G. Shapiro. 
1992. Computer and Robot Vision, Volume I, 
Addison-Wesley, pp. 40-48. 
May, D.J., J.W. Deaton, and S.L. Branton. 1987. 
Body temperature of acclimated broilers 
during exposure to high temperature. Poultry 
Science 66: 378-380. 
Meyer, F. 1994. Topographic distance and 
watershed lines. Signal Processing , Vol. 38, 
113-125. 
Oliveira, J.L. and M.L. Esmay. 1982. Systems 
model analysis of hot weather housing for 
livestock. Trans ASAE 25:1355-1359. 
Otsu, N. 1979. A threshold selection method 
from gray-level histograms. IEEE 
Transaction on System, Man, and 
Cybernetics 9(1): 62-66. 
 
計畫成果自評 
完成之工作項目： 
1. 熱像儀溫度擷取與控制程式之開發。 
2. 將熱像儀上之熱影像畫面，利用影像陣列
數值套入程式預先設定好的顏色對應
中，使操作者能得到即時的熱影像畫面。 
3. 熱影像追蹤平台的研製。 
4. 步進馬達或伺服馬達的控制。 
5. 結合熱影像開發熱影像追蹤平台控制系
統。 
6. 以影像處理定位熱影像中雞隻位置和分
析雞群溫度。 
 10
2. ISMAB2010 會議論文電子檔的光碟片 
 12
morbidity source of high temperature body. If a thermal camera can be used in association with a two-axle 
rotational platform to develop a thermal tracking system, the system can be used and installed at livestock and 
poultry houses to inspect at large scale. A target with high temperature can be analyzed and automatically tracked 
by thermal images, so the system may apply to inspection of livestock and poultry epidemic. 
 
The main purpose of this study is to develop a thermal tracking system using a thermal camera. First, a two-axle 
rotational platform was designed and manufactured to place a thermal camera, then a control program was 
developed to control the thermal camera and the two-axle rotational platform. Information of thermal images is 
converted to pulse signals for the platform rotation, so a motor can drive the thermal camera to a certain angle. 
Therefore, this automatic tracking system can track a moving hot target via horizontal and elevatory rotations of the 
two-axle rotational platform by keeping the target at the central area of the thermal images to achieve real-time 
thermal tracking capability. 
 
DEVELOPMENT OF THE THERMAL TRACKING SYSTEM 
 
1. Manufacture of the two-axle rotational platform 
The two-axle rotational platform consists of a servo motor, a step motor, a servo motor driver and a step motor 
driver, where a servo motor and a step motor control the elevatory axis and horizontal axis respectively. The 
appearance of the two-axle rotational platform is shown in Fig. 1. A two-axle controller, model MCUSB2ec of 
HPtec, is used to control the two motors of the two-axle rotational platform. The platform for placing a thermal 
camera is in the form of rotational mechanism, so view angles of the thermal camera can be changed by rotating the 
platform directly. Besides rotational stability, the focus of the thermal camera must be ensured on the rotation center 
when designing the rotational platform. 
 
 
Figure 1 Schematic diagram of the two-axle rotational platform 
 
The focus of a thermal camera is located on the central line of lens. The position where it is located behind lens 
should be determined by experiments. If the focus is not located on the rotation center of the platform, error would 
occur as pixel displacement of thermal images being converted to rotation signals for short distance targets (Lien el 
 14
2004), shown as Fig. 3. When a thermal image is used to track a hot target, the brightest point of an image is the 
tracking target. The program follows the order from top to bottom and left to right to compare each value one by 
one and find out the brightest point. If more than two hot targets and temperatures on a thermal image are the same 
by using such comparison, the system would determine the hot target closest to the upper left position to be the 
brightest point. 
 
MATERIALS AND METHODS 
 
1. Experimental materials 
Besides the previous two-axle rotational platform, the thermal camera (FLIR ThermoCAM SC2000 with 
specifications of  FOV: ≦24°×18°, sensitivity: ≦0.07℃ at 30℃, infrared spectra: 7.5~13μm and resolution: 
320×240 pixels) was the major device in this study. A notebook computer, model R61 of Lenovo, was used to 
developed human-machine control program and connected to the thermal camera and the two-axle controller. A 
target with high temperature is required for each experiment, so the hot target can be displayed on thermal images. 
A 12V light bulb was used as high temperature target in experiments. 
 
2. Positioning test of the thermal camera 
The front surface of the thermal camera is referred as the reference surface in experiments. If the reference surface 
of the thermal camera is located in the front of the central surface of the elevatory axis, the relative position is 
positive but on the contrary it is negative (shown as Fig. 4). The relative position of the reference surface to the 
central surface of the elevatory axis was varied in the range of -2 to 7cm. After the platform was rotated at a fixed 
angle (=6°), coordinates of the highest temperature point before and after the rotation were recorded. Then the 
displacement pixel of highest temperature point before and after the rotation could be obtained. After the 
displacement pixel was converted to the rotation angle (view angle of the thermal camera is 24°×18°, and the 
thermal camera has 320×240 pixels, hence one pixel corresponds to 0.075°), the difference value of platform 
rotation angle and highest temperature rotation angle was calculated. Based on this difference value, the optimal 
position to place the thermal camera was analyzed. If the difference value is zero, it means the focus of the thermal 
camera is exactly located on the rotation center of the platform. 
 
 
 16
 
Figure 5 Variations of angle error with thermal camera position 
 
2. Accuracy test of the rotational platform 
Fig. 6(a) shows angle errors for horizontal and elevatory axis rotating in the same direction, where the test data of 
horizontal and elevatory axis are represented as square and triangle points, respectively. The experimental results 
show the larger rotation angle has the larger angle error. The maximum angle error at horizontal axis is 0.0375°, 
only a half of one pixel. For elevatory axis, the angle error is at the maximum value of 0.025° when the rotation 
angle is greater than 13.5°. The results indicate when the platform continuously rotates in the same direction, angle 
error would not exceed 1 pixel, representing that error is mostly due to the resolution limit of thermal images. 
 
Angle error for horizontal and elevatory axis rotating in the reverse direction are shown in Fig. 6(b), where the test 
data of horizontal and elevatory axis are represented as square and triangle points, respectively. The experimental 
results show the horizontal axis has the same angle error of 0.15° when each rotation angle reversely rotates. 
However, no angle error takes place when the elevatory axis reversely rotates. The possible reason of same angle 
error for horizontal rotation is because the worm wheel of the horizontal axis is horizontally placed. When reversely 
rotating, the worm gear should rotate over back-gap angle to engage the worm wheel and produce rotation angle. 
The reason of no error for elevatory rotation is because the worm wheel is vertical and bears the thermal camera. 
Since the gravities of the thermal camera is not on the elevatory axis and hence there is a force (momentum) 
continuously applying on the worm wheel, the worm wheel and worm gear are always engaged. Therefore, no angle 
error occurs on the elevatory axis when reversely rotating. 
 
 
(a)                                                                           (b) 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/02
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 熱追蹤控制系統研製與應用於禽舍雞隻體溫監測
計畫主持人: 林正亮
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-415-003-MY2 學門領域: 系統整合與工業應用
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
