vibration significantly modified the flow near the 
interface. As a result, the constitutional 
supercooling was effectively removed, and the 
morphological stability was consequently enhanced. 
英文關鍵詞： Thermal–solutal flows； Angular vibration； 
Convection； Morphology； Segregation； Vertical 
Bridgman crystal growth 
 
ii 
 
摘要 
本研究以一新穎的旋轉振動方式來控制垂直凝固製程，藉由振動引起的 Schiliting 邊
界流動來控制因溫度梯度與濃度梯度引起的雙擴散流，進而控制溶質分佈與增加界面的穩
定性，這個技術對單晶生長及區熔提純控制上，有相當重要的應用。我們採用低溫透明的 
succinonitrile 分別摻雜 acetone(輕溶質)與 salol(重溶質)來進行可視化的垂直凝固實驗，藉此
探討旋轉振動對流動、界面形態與偏析的影響，同時我們也以數值模擬進行理論分析。數
值模擬的結果與實驗觀察相當吻合，而且結果顯示旋轉振動的確可有效控制溶質分佈，防
止組成過冷，進而增加界面的穩定性。 
 
關鍵詞: 旋轉振動、垂直凝固、界面形態、對流、偏析、布氏晶體生長 
 
 
Abstract 
The vertical Bridgman technique is a popular method for crystal growth, refining, and 
purification. However, the lack of active melt stirring often causes large radial and axial 
non-uniformities as a result of solute segregation and poor mixing. More importantly, the local 
solute accumulation could lead to constitutional supercooling and then induce morphological 
instability of the solidification front. Therefore, a better understanding of the flow behavior and 
the development of an effective way to control the melt convection is very important for the 
vertical Bridgman process. We have proposed a novel angular-vibration technique to control the 
flows in the vertical Bridgman process. Previous results show that it is effective at reversing 
radial segregation and thus enhances the morphological stability. To further understand the 
mechanisms involved and to examine the applicability of this novel technique, we continue 
experimental and theoretical investigations on various growth systems. In this report, the 
experimental and numerical simulation results for the transparent SCN/acetone and SCN/salol 
growth systems are reported. The effects of angular vibration on the flows, segregation and the 
interface morphology were studied. The evolution of the interface shape, as well as the 
morphological instability, was visualized and interpreted through numerical simulation. Results 
show that the Schlichting flow induced by the angular vibration significantly modified the flow 
near the interface. As a result, the constitutional supercooling was effectively removed, and the 
morphological stability was consequently enhanced. 
 
Keywords: Thermal–solutal flows; Angular vibration; Convection; Morphology; Segregation; 
Vertical Bridgman crystal growth 
 2 
10K/cm. To translate the ampoule accurately, a microstepping motor was used to drive a screw 
slide; the translation rate was controlled at 1.6 m/s in this study. During solidification, a digital 
video camera was used to record the evolution of the interface morphology with a back lighting 
to enhance the contrast of the image. Also, to allow a smooth rotational motion, the ampoule 
was tightly fitted into a pair of bearings (top and bottom) that were both mounted on the 
translating system. Furthermore, to generate angular vibration, as shown in Fig. 1, a stepping 
motor was used to rotate a disk having a shaft connected to the other disk that mounted the 
sample. The vibration amplitude was controlled by the position of the shaft in the disk, while the 
frequency was controlled by the rotation speed of the stepping motor. In the experiments, the 
dimensionless amplitude was about 0.045, i.e., a fraction of 2. 
3. Results and discussion 
3.1. Interface morphology 
Figs. 2a and b show the interface shape evolution during Bridgman growth of SCN 
containing 0.064 wt% acetone and 0.15 wt% salol, respectively, at the pulling speed of 1.6 _m/s. 
For acetone, at stationary, the interface was flat due to the nearly equal thermal conductivities of 
the melt and the crystal. As the solidification started, the interface moved downward and slightly 
deformed. At around 40 min, a depression occurred at the center due to the local accumulation 
of acetone. Such a depression having a cusp tip broke down, due to constitutional supercooling, 
at about the same time. Further breakdown and enlargement of the pattern can be seen from the 
photographs at 60 and 80 min, respectively. The evolution of interface morphology for 
SCN/salol showed a similar behavior. However, as shown in Fig. 2b, the depression shape was 
wider. The morphological breakdown occurred at about the same time being about 40 min. The 
bottom of the breakdown area was much flatter than that of SCN/acetone. We have enlarged the 
interface shapes at 60 min of both cases for comparison in Fig. 3. As shown, the shapes of the 
breakdown area were quite different. As will be explained later by numerical simulation, this 
was cased by the different solutal distributions at the interface.  
Computer simulations were further carried as shown in Figs. 4a and b for SCN/acetone 
and SCN/salol, respectively. In each plot, the left-hand side is the streamlines, and the righthand 
side the solutal fields (iso-concentrations). As shown in Fig. 4a, at stationary, the interface was 
flat and the convection near the interface was extremely weak. The upper cell was caused by the 
radial heating. As the solidification started, the interface became concave and the flow cell near 
the interface was enhanced. As a result, the acetone rejected during solidification was 
redistributed by the flow having an increasing acetone concentration toward the center of the 
interface. Because acetone is lighter than SCN, the radial acetone gradients also enhance the 
flow leading to a highly localized solute distribution at the center of the interface. The local 
acetone accumulation further caused a suppression of the interface there, which became obvious 
at about 40 min. As will be discussed shortly through calculations, constitutional supercooling 
also occurred at about 35 min. As the supercooling was established, morphological breakdown 
could occur when the supercooling overcame the interfacial energy. The simulated results at 60 
and 80 min show a deep depression at the interface center, where high constitutional 
supercooling exists. However, in reality, the microscopic planar interface could no longer exist, 
as those shown in Fig. 2a. The supercooled interface has a cellular or dendritic structure. 
Because of the morphological breakdown, the accumulated acetone in front of the interface was 
trapped and the supercooling was reduced. However, the present simulation is not able to take 
this into account. Therefore, the simulation results after the morphological breakdown are only 
qualitative. 
For SCN/salol, the convection near the interface was much weaker, as shown in Fig. 4b. 
Such a weaker flow was due the heavier solute, which suppressed the flow. In other words, the 
 4 
solute accumulation. On the other hand, from 5 to 20 Hz, the Schlichting flow became dominant. 
Since the flow was in clockwise direction and the isotherms were distorted with the flow, the 
interface concavity increased with the vibration intensity (frequency). The radial solute 
concentrations extracted from the simulated results in Fig. 8 were plotted in Figs. 9a and b for 
SCN/acetone and SCN/salol, respectively. As shown, for both cases, the radial segregation 
reversed from 0 to 5 Hz. This indicated that the Schlichting streaming flow was strong enough 
to overcome the buoyancy force and was able to push the solute from the interface center to the 
rim. From both Figs. 8 and 9, it was clear that when the frequency was greater than 10 Hz, the 
Schlichting flow dominated and the solutal effect became insignificant, which could be seen 
from the solutal fields as well as the radial solute segregation profiles.  
4. Conclusion 
The effect of thermal–solutal flows on the interface shape and morphology in a vertical 
Bridgman crystal growth was investigated using succinonitrile alloys. Both lighter (acetone) and 
heavier (salol) solutes were considered. Based on the interface shape and its breakdown pattern, 
it was clear that the heavier solute (salol) significantly suppressed the flow near the growth 
interface. Computer simulation was further carried out and the simulated results were in good 
agreement with experimental observations. To further control the solute segregation, angular 
vibration was applied and the effect of frequency was investigated. Clearly, the induced 
Schlichting flow significantly modified the flow near the interface. As a result, the constitutional 
supercooling was effectively removed by vibration. At low frequencies, the interface concavity 
was reduced with the increasing frequency due to the solute redistribution. However, at high 
frequency, the interface concavity increased with the frequency due to the enhanced convective 
heat transfer by the Schlichting flow. The simulation also predicted reasonably well the area of 
the morphological breakdown based on the constitutional supercooling. 
 
References
 
Adornato P.M., Brown R.A., 1987, Convection and segregation in directional solidification of 
dilute and non-dilute alloys: effect of ampoule and furnace design, Journal of Crystal 
Growth, 80, 155-190. 
Brice J.C., 1986, Crystal Growth Processes, Jone Wiley & Sons, New York. 
Ghorayeb K., Khallouf H., Mojtabi A., 1999, Onset of oscillatory flows in double- diffusive 
convection, International Journal of Heat Mass Transfer, 42, (4), 629–643. 
Lan C.W., Chen F.C., 1996, A Finite-Volume Method For Solute Segregation in Directional 
Solidification and Comparison with a Finite-Element Method, Computer Methods in 
Applied Mechanics and Engineering, 31, 191-207. 
Lan C.W., Liang M.C., 1998, Modeling of dopant segregation in vertical zone-melting crystal 
growth, Journal of Crystal Growth, 186, 203-213. 
Lan C.W. and Tu C.Y., 2001, Morphological instability due to double diffusive convection in 
directional solidification: the pit formation, Journal of Crystal Growth, 220, 619-630. 
Lan C.W., 2004, Recent progress of crystal growth modeling and growth control, Chemical 
Engineering Science, 59, 1437-1457. 
 6 
 
Fig. 1  Sketch of the experimental set-up for vertical 
Bridgman crystal growth with angular 
vibration; the furnace profile Tf(z) was used 
for simulation. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Interface evolution of vertical Bridgman growth 
of SCN containing (a) 0.064 wt% of acetone; (b) 
0.15 wt% of salol. The ampoule pulling speed is 
1.6 m/s. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Enlarged photograph and the sketch of the 
interface and the lower boundary of the 
breakdown morphology: (a) SCN/Acetone; (b) 
SCN/Salol 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 Calculated flow and solute fields (a) 
SCN/acetone; (b) SCN/salol; the ampoule 
pulling speed is 1.6 m/s. 
 
 
 
 8 
Self-assessment on research project 
 
The goal of the project is to study the possibilities of using a novel angular-vibration 
technique to control the flows in the vertical Bridgman crystal growth process. Our research 
project is progressing well, and the results are most encouraging. We have already finished both 
the experimental and numerical work on the transparent SCN/acetone and SCN/salol growth 
systems. As for the Ge/Gi and Ge/Si systems, the experimental work is near finishing, while the 
numerical simulation is underway. Furthermore, the experimental results for the Ge systems 
indicate that angular vibration is indeed an effective way to control the flows and should find 
wide applications in the vertical Bridgman crystal growth process. In addition, this cooperative 
research has so far resulted in two SCI papers:  
 Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer, 50(1-2): 58-66, 2007 
 Chem. Eng. Sci., 61(23), 7766-7773, 2006 
We expect more publications in the future.  
 
2 
本次出國的目的是參加第十五屆的國際晶體生長會議—15th International 
conference on crystal growth，這個國際晶體生長會議每四年舉辦一次，本屆由
美國晶體生長協會(American Association for Crystal Growth)主辦，會議地點在
美國猶他州鹽湖城的 Grand America Hotel，時間則是 2007 年 8 月 12-17 日。 
本次會議共包含 19 項主題: 
 Bulk crystal growth 
 Oxide, halides, and crystals for radiation detection 
 Fundamentals of crystal growth-Theory and experiment 
 Thin film growth and epitaxy 
 Crystal growth under applied external fields 
 Correlated electron crystals 
 Crystal growth of laser host and NLO crystals 
 Growth of quantum dots, wires, and nanocrystals 
 Growth of magnetic semiconductors for spintronics 
 Crystal growth of narrow gap materials 
 Functional oxides: epitaxial thin films and multilayers 
 Novel materials 
 Growth of crystalline silicon and other photovoltaic materials 
 Wide bandgap bulk and epitaxial growth (GaN, SiC, ZnO, etc.) 
 Biological control of crystallization 
 Crystal growth technology 
 Advanced characterization of defects 
 In situ measurements and characterization of crystal growth 
世界各地，包括美國當地、德國、荷蘭、英國、俄羅斯、日本等地的研究人員
齊聚ㄧ堂，分享最新的研究成果。除了學術演講與壁報外，參展的還有許多設
備廠商。 
 
4 
本人在這次會議發表了兩篇論文，分屬兩個不同的主題，前者是 Crystal 
growth under applied external fields，後者則屬 Crystal growth of laser host and 
NLO crystals: 
1. Y. C. Liu, W. C. Yu, B. Roux, T. P. Lyubimova, C. W. Lan* (2007) Effect of 
accelerated crucible rotation on the segregation and interface morphology for 
vertical Bridgman crystal growth. 
2. W. C. Yu*, C. D. Lee, R. Sivakumar, C. W. Lan (2007) A new approach for the 
growth of organic nonlinear optical DAST crystals—Double diffusion in 
non-aqueous gels. 
論文摘要如後。 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/11/22
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 垂直凝固系統於旋轉振動場下的雙擴散流及界面形態的研究(2/3)
計畫主持人: 余琬琴
計畫編號: 95-2218-E-027-007- 學門領域: 化學工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
