2一、中文摘要
The purpose of the experiment was to
investigate the effects of chromaticity
combination on reading speeds and subjective
preference ratings for small Chinese characters.
The experiment was a 7 (text chromaticity) × 7
(background chromaticity) split-plot design.
The text chromaticity included seven levels: 2R,
2G, 2B, N and 1R, 1G, 1B. Their luminance was
about 4.2cd/m2. The background chromaticity
also included seven levels whose positions on the
chromaticity diagram were close to the text
chromaticity. Their luminance was about
21cd/m2. Analysis of variances showed that the
text chromaticity was not significant but
background chromaticity was. The findings
suggested that N (achromatic color) was the most
effective background chromaticity with lower
reading time and higher preference rating;
however, the highly-saturated short –wavelength
blue least effective.
關鍵詞：chromaticity combination
二、緣由與目的
Given the convenience of carrying, the
hand-held electronic products with small screens
have become popular. The limited display space
leads to reduced character size when more
characters are presented simultaneously on the
screen. Small characters often degrade their
legibility. However, extent of degraded
legibility might be reduced when the
character-background chromaticity combinations
are used properly. Therefore, it is worth to
investigate the effect of character-background
chromaticity on legibility of small character.
Generally, most researchers agree that colors
with greater luminance contrast ratio are judged
of greater legibility. However, those experimental
papers are not always consistent with one another
in suggestions of effective use of
character-background chromaticity combination.
There are many reasons for such contradictory
remarks. First, chromaticity contrast might be
confounded with luminance contrast. Next, the
character sizes used in the previous research have
varied. Even, some researchers did not describe
the visual angle of the test material in their
experiment, nor the distance from it. Third,
some experiments included tests which took long
periods of time so sequence variables like
motivation (boredom), learning effects and task
load became relevant. For instance, every subject
spent more than 4 hours on task in the experiment
by Pastoor (1990). Therefore, the present study
would avoid this pitfall.
Finally, the contradictory outcomes may be
related to use of various methods to measure
color, for example, subjective performance
ratings and objective performance measure. The
inconsistent outcomes may be illustrative of a
halo effect (Zimbardo & Gerrig, 1996). That is,
a text color combination may tend to be rate
higher on nearly every dimension if one likes it.
Therefore, rating performance would be not used
in present study. However, preference rating
would be used as a performance measure in this
study because the aesthetics of text color
combinations is also important. A pleasing
color combination may attract users to the
interface. It seems an effective chromaticity
combination for characters and background
should consider both objective measures and
subjective preferences.
三、方法
The purpose of the experiment was to
investigate the effects of character-background
chromaticity combination on reading time and
subjective ratings for small Chinese characters.
The chromaticity includes both dominant
wavelength and excitation purity.
Experimental Design
The experiment was a 7 (text chromaticity)
× 7 (background chromaticity) split-plot design.
The text chromaticity included seven levels: 2R,
2G, 2B, N, 1R, 1G and 1B shown as Fig. 1. Their
luminance was about 4.2cd/m2. 2R, 2G and 2B
were (102, 0, 0), (35, 51, 23) and (31, 31, 102),
respectively, in the RGB color picker of Adobe
Photoshop@ 7.0. Their coordinates measured
with Minota CA 210 were (4.24; 0.3852, 0.5109),
(4.29; 0.1642, 0.5091) and (4.29; 0.1726, 0.2328),
4which was larger than 15 min of visual arc
suggested by Cushman and Rosenberg (1991).
The ambient room illuminance was low (about 50
lux at observers’ seats). 
All the characters were presented in a
rectangle (about 9.2mm height and 86.3mm width)
which was simulated as an RSVP (rapid serial
visual presentation) programmed with Java Script
via an ACER 17-in AL1714 LCD display. The
RSVP was located at the center of the display.
The color outside the rectangular RSVP was
black. A test trial included four screen pages.
The first screen page was the preparation page
showed six asterisks (*) in RSVP. The other
three pages were test pages. Each test page
included six unrelated Chinese characters in
RSVP. Therefore, there were 18 unrelated
traditional Chinese characters for each test trial.
To eliminate the effects of text contexts, the
characters for each trial were unrelated in
meaning. There were 49 word groups in the
experiment. Each word group included 18
unrelated Chinese characters. Each text
chromaticity combination was assigned randomly
to only one test trial for each subject.
Tasks and Procedure
First, subjects performed oral tests reading
aloud. Subjects were asked to read aloud the
Chinese characters for each trial in RSVP as
quickly and correctly as they could to simulate
RSVP reading behaviors. At the beginning of
each trial, the screen page showed 6 star asterisks
in RSVP. When subjects pressed an ENTER
key, the second screen page appeared and
computer recorded the starting time. The subjects
were encouraged to read aloud the six characters
as fast and correctly as they could. After
reading characters, subjects immediately pressed
the ENTER key again to display the third page
with six unrelated Chinese characters in RSVP.
The fourth page was programmed the same way.
After subjects finished reading the characters on
four pages, they pressed the ENTER key again as
soon as they could and the computer recorded the
ending time. There were 49 (7 × 7) trials for
each subject. Familiarization was based on 20
training trials with additional word groups.
Next, subjects rated 49 (7 character
chromaticity × 7 background chromaticity)
chromaticity combinations one by one for
aesthetic appearance. For each trial, only one
character-background chromaticity combination
chosen randomly from the 49 combinations was
shown on the rectangular RSVP at the center of
display screen. The characters used on the
rating tests were identical for each trial. The
rating categories were excellent, good, no opinion,
poor and worst shown on the bottom of the
display screen. They were encoded score 4, 3, 2,
1, 0, respectively, by the computer program.
Dependent Measures and Data Analysis
The effectiveness was defined as a joint
function of reading time and preference rating for
the different chromaticity combinations.
Reading time was defined as the ending time
minus starting time, with 80% correct reading of
Chinese characters (about 15 Chinese characters)
at least for each test trial. The longer the
reading time, the worse legibility of the
chromaticity combination was. The preference
rating was encoded from subjects’ subjective 
preference of the chromaticity combinations.
Analysis of variance was employed to analyze the
data. A chromaticity combination with the least
reading time and the highest rating score is the
most effective among all the chromaticity
combinations.
四、結果與討論
Effective Chromaticity Combinations
An interest in this paper was to find out an
effective chromaticity combination for characters
and background. Analysis of variance showed
that the interaction of character and background
chromaticity was not significant. It might be
that the contrast ratio of 5:1 in the experiment
was too large to see the effect of
character-background chromaticity. Besides,
analysis also showed that text chromaticity effects
were not significant on reading test and
preference rating. It might be that the character
luminance which was 4.2cd/m2 in the experiment
was too low. Colors with very low luminance
always accompany low perceived chromaticness.
Additionally, the character size used in the
experiment might also be small enough to
6Figure2. A scatter plot of reading time and preference rating
for the 7 background colors.
From an applied perspective, in Figure 2, the
better effective text chromaticity were those near
bottom right of the graph wherein quick reading
time and higher preference score. The
background chromaticity N (an achromatic color)
was close to the bottom right of the graph.
Perhaps achromatic hues as background were
more effective than others. Inversely, the worse
effective background chromaticity were those
near top left of the graph where long reading time
and lower preference score occurred. The
background chromaticity 2B was located in the
top left of the graph, which suggests the
highly-saturated short-wavelength chromaticity as
background was less effective. This graph
might suggest that in designing a display one
should avoid highly saturated short-wavelength
hues as background for small Chinese characters
but an achromatic background can be
recommended.
Preference Ratings
Table 2 showed that no color combination
was rated “good” in this experiment.  The 
ratings of 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 were categorized as
worst, poor, no opinion, good and excellent,
respectively. No scores for every text
chromaticity combinations were over 3, which
might suggest that subjects were not pleased with
the 49 color combinations, but this probably
reflects that character-background luminance
contrast was not high enough. The international
ergonomics standard (ISO 9241-3) suggests that
the character-background contrast ratio should be
3:1 minimum, 10:1 recommended. Although
the luminance contrast ratio for each text
chromaticity combination was 5:1 which was
larger than ISO minimum suggestion of 3:1, this
value was still lower than 10:1 recommended by
ISO 9241-3. That might be the reason why all
the scores of text chromaticity combinations did
not atain the “good” level.
Next, Table 2 shows that the background
chromaticity, 2G, 1G and N, attained the
significantly highest mean rating, the background
chromaticity, 2R, 1R and 1B, next, and the short
wavelength, 2B, least. The finding agreed with
previous study that subjects did not prefer the
spectrally extreme wavelength hue background,
especially the short-wavelength hues if highly
saturated (Cushman and Rosenberg, 1991).
四、結論
The background chromaticity was most
important in reading and subjects’ preference for 
small Chinese characters on a limited display
space when the polarity of textual color
combinations was positive. When considering
the effectiveness of chromaticity combination, an
achromatic background was best as reading time
was lower and preference rated higher; however,
given highly saturated short wavelength as
background color, gave poor responses. Finally,
the finding agreed with previous study that
subjects did not prefer the spectrally extreme
wavelength hue background, especially the
short-wavelength hues if highly saturated.
五、參考文獻
Bodrogi, P. (2003) Chromaticity contrast in visual
search on the multi-colour user interface. Display,
24, 39-48.
Boynton, R. M. (1979) Human color vision. San
Diego, CA: Univer. of California.
Cushman, W. H., & Rosenberg, D. J. (1991) Human
factors in product design. Amsterdam: Elseviser.
Garcia, M., & Galdera, C. (1996) The effect of color
and typeface on the readability of on-line text.
Computers Industrial Engineering, 31, 519-524.
Hall, R. H., & Hanna, P. (2004) The impact of web
page text-background colour combinations on
readability, retention, aesthetics and behavioral
intention. Behavior & Information Technology, 23,
183-195.
International Standard for Organization. (ISO 9241-3)
(1992) Ergonomic requirements for office work
with visual display terminals: Part 3. visual
display requirements.
