1. Introduction 
 
The volume of biomedical literature available on the world-wide web has experienced 
unprecedented growth in recent years, and demand for efficient methods to process 
this material has increased accordingly. In recent years, there has been a surge of 
interest in mining biomedical literature, [Andrade and Valencia; Fukuda, et al.; 
Hanisch, et al.; Jenssen, et al.; Leek; Shatkay, et al.]. Natural language processing 
(NLP), which is concerned with the analysis of free textual information, has been 
applied recently in the context of molecular biology. The primary source of free 
textual data information in molecular biology and biomedicine is Medline, a 
collection of more than 12,000,000 abstracts maintained by the National Library of 
Medicine (NLM) [Wheeler, et al.]. Increasing at the rate of 1,500 abstracts a day 
[Cohen and Hunter], it is usually accessed by biologists using the PubMed suite. Text 
mining involves several key tasks, for example, information retrieval (IR), named 
entity recognition (NER), and named entity relation recognition (NERR). IR retrieves 
documents relevant to user’s queries. NER identifies named entities from natural 
language text and classifies them into specific classes according to a defined ontology 
or classification, e.g., recognizing IL-2 from text as a protein, or hypertension as a 
disease. NERR, on the other hand, recognizes relations of interest between named 
entities (NE), e.g., between a gene and a disease, or between hepato-cellular 
carcinoma and the mRNA level.  
 
NER has been an area of interest in NLP for many years, but in the biomedical 
domain, it remains a major challenge. However, more attention has been focused on 
IR recently, which is useful to biologists and can serve as a pre-requisite for NERR. 
In recent years, the Text REtrieval Conference (TREC) has emphasized the 
development of biomedical IR and organized Genomic Track 2004 [Hersh, et al.] and 
2005 as a platform for testing IR progress. In this project, we first focus on the study 
of genomic information retrieval for two reasons: first, to prepare for TREC  
Genomic Track in 2006 and subsequent years, and second, to expedite the progress of 
IR and preparation for NERR in biomedical domain. Next, we shall also tackle NERR 
since NERR is essential to facilitate drug discovery and pathway construction. Since 
protein-protein interaction is an important type of biological relations and can help 
determine protein functions, we choose protein-protein interaction as our target 
relation for our NERR study. Though NER is inevitable for NERR, we shall use 
dictionary-based approach or a machine-learning based system developed in our 
laboratory for NER. Our efforts will be made mainly on automated extraction of 
protein-protein interaction from biomedical literature. 
  2
3. Literature Survey of NERR methods 
In this section, we briefly introduce three types of methods in NERR and discuss their 
limitations or drawbacks.  
 
3.1. Cooccurence-based methods 
Related NEs usually appear together in sentences or in documents. Therefore, 
cooccurrence can be a good indicator of whether two NEs are related. For example, if 
the two NEs, “STAT-6” and “iNOS”, and the relation keyword “activation” appear 
together frequently, we can infer that these two NEs have an activation relation.  
In biomedical documents, NE relations can be detected by cooccurrence-based 
techniques [Cohen, et al.; Karopka, et al.; Pakhomov]. [Gondy, et al.] built a 
cooccurrence network, a set of the relations between two noun phrases, in several 
steps. First, a shallow parser is used to extract noun phrases. Then similar noun 
phrases are fused into single concepts. The final step is to compute the frequency of 
each concept and its cooccurrences. Since thousands of candidate relations can be 
explored using the cooccurrence-based method, we need to develop an assessment 
method to determine if a candidate should be kept or filtered out. One way is to set a 
frequency threshold. Another way is to use an external resource to score the 
candidates—the basic assumption being if an NE occurs more frequently in an 
external database or knowledge base, then it is more likely to be a true relation. 
Nowadays, many biomedical literature mining systems apply cooccurrence-based 
approaches, for example, extraction of synonyms for gene and protein names [Cohen, 
et al.] and extraction of biological relationships [Jelier, et al.]. If there is a lack of 
training corpora or regular patterns, the cooccurrence-based method can be a practical 
solution. 
3.2. Pattern-based methods 
Pattern-based methods assume that each specific relation is implied by patterns that 
are composed of words, syntactic tags, and semantic tags. If we can generate a pattern 
from natural language text containing instances of a given relation, then we can use 
these patterns to extract more instances. Here is an example pattern, 
PTNVBPTN →→ , 
where PTN and VB stand for a protein name and a verb, respectively. We can extract 
NE relation by matching such patterns. Pattern-based approaches usually involve two 
steps: pattern generation and pattern matching. 
  4
4. Methods 
In order to facilitate the corpus construction for protein-protein interaction, we apply 
machine learning approach to generate a gene/gene product named entity recognition 
system and protein-protein interaction article classifier (PPI-C). 
4.1 Gene/Gene product named entity recognition 
Initially, Bio-NER adopted handcrafted patterns [Fukuda et al.] to recognize various 
NE forms. Later, machine learning (ML) models were introduced to tackle the 
Bio-NER problem – from simple classifiers [Kazama, et al.; Lee et al.] to more 
complex probabilistic sequence models [Lafferty, et al.]. To perform ML-based NER, 
all sentences must be broken into tokens, which are then given tags. From the 
numerous token/tag formats, we adopt the IOB2 format. In IOB2, each word in a 
sentence is regarded as a token, and each token is associated with a tag that indicates 
the category of the NE and whether the given token is at the beginning (B), or inside 
(I) of the NE. For example, the following phrase can be annotated in XML format: 
 
"<DNA> IL-2 gene </DNA> expression, <Protein> CD28 </Protein>, and <Protein> 
NF- kappa B </Protein>" 
 
is transformed to the following IOB2 format: 
 
"IL-2/B-DNA gene/I-DNA expression/O,/O CD28/B-protein,/O and/O NF- 
kappa/B-protein B/I-protein". 
 
In this project, we use the conditional random fields (CRF), an undirected graphical 
model trained to maximize a conditional probability, as our ML model due to the 
following reasons: 1) Its conditional nature allows for the relaxation of the 
independence assumptions that HMM requires to ensure tractable inferences. 2) It can 
avoid the label bias problem [McCallum, et al.] exhibited by [Wallach] and other 
conditional Markov models [Palmer, et al.]. 3) It is flexible enough to capture many 
correlated features, including overlapping and non-independent features, and thus we 
can use multiple features with more ease than on an HMM system. 
 
Taking the sentence "The IL2 gene localizes to bands BC on mouse Chromosome 3" 
for example, we list its features available to our system in Table 1. 
  6
4.2 Protein-protein interaction classification 
To identify protein-protein interaction related biomedical abstracts can help to 
construct an informative corpus. In this project, we proposed using a novel feature 
representation scheme, contextual-bag-of-words, to exploit named entity information. 
We further improve the performance by extracting reliable and informative instances 
from unlabeled and likely positive data to provide additional training data.  
 
We formulated this task as a text classification problem in the biomedical domain and 
chose the support vector machine (SVM) model, one of the best known machine 
learning models, as our underline model. SVM tries to find a maximal-margin 
separating hyperplane <w, φ(x)>－b = 0 to separate the training instances, i.e.,  
 
∑+
i
iC )(||||min ξ2w  subject to y(i) (<w, φ(x(i))>－b) 1－ξ(i),  ≥ i∀
where x(i) is the ith training instance which is mapped into a high-dimension space by 
φ , yi∈{1, -1} is its label, ξ(i) denotes its training error, and C is the cost factor 
(penalty of the misclassified data). The mapping function φ
)(⋅
)(⋅ and the cost factor C are 
the main parameters of a SVM model. 
 
When classifying an instance x, the decision function f(x) indicates that x is "above" 
or "below" the hyperplane. It shows that f(x) can be converted into an equivalent dual 
form which can be more easily computed: 
 
primal form: f(x) = sign(<w, φ(x)>－b); 
dual form: f(x) = sign
)),K(( )()()( by
i
iii −∑ xxα
 
 
where K(x(i), x) =<φ(x(i)), φ(x)> is the kernel function and α(i) can be thought of as w's 
transformation. In this task, we chose the following polynomial kernel according to 
our preliminary experiment results: 
 
K(x(i), x(j)) = (<x(i), x(j)> + 1) 2 and C = 1 
 
A PPI abstract must contain some protein names. Hence, recognition of protein names 
in abstracts can improve the identification of PPI abstracts. We used a new feature 
representation scheme, contextual bag of words, which referred to the number of 
  8
the test set, our system achieves higher precisions but low recalls. We believe that this 
is because of our strategy used to create gold standard for the development set. Our 
development set is selected from training sets in BioCreAtIvE I and II. Some selected 
sentences exist in both BioCreAtIvE I and II datasets. These sentences are sometimes 
tagged differently in BioCreAtIvE I and II. Thus, we treat the BioCreAtIvE II 
annotation as the gold standard and BioCreAtIvE I as the alternative answers. 
Therefore, there may be many alternative answers for an NE in the development set. 
But in BioCreAtIvE II’s test set, the gold standard may not be created in this way. We 
believe that on average, the number of alternative answers per NE in the test set is less 
than that in the development set. This phenomenon causes the lower recalls in the test 
set. 
Table 3: The performance on our development set 
Config Precision Recall F-Measure 
No-lexicon feature 78.40% 81.75% 80.04% 
With lexicon feature 78.86% 81.51% 80.17% 
5.2 Protein-protein interaction classification 
Table 4 shows the results on the test set, including our PPI-C system’s performance 
along with the mean and median scores of all the participant systems in BioCreAtIvE 
II task. Our Config1 employs the best feature set found in the development set. It also 
uses the unlabeled data while our Config2 system does not. We can see that with 
unlabeled data, the performance can be slightly improved by 1.10%. In addition, both 
Config1 and 2 significantly outperform the mean and median scores. This shows that 
our CBoW representation is generally effective in the PPI classification task. 
 
Table 4: Performance on the test set 
Configuration Precision Recall F-Measure 
Config1 (With unlabeled data) 68.90% 85.07% 76.13% 
Config2 66.46% 86.13% 75.03% 
Mean 66.42% 76.36% 68.68% 
Median 67.72% 85.07% 72.24% 
 
 
6. References 
 
1. Andrade, M.A., and Valencia, A. "Automatic annotation for biological sequences 
by extraction of keywords from MEDLINE abstracts. Development of a prototype 
system," ISMB' 97, 1997. 
  10
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics) 2004. 
16. Karopka, T., Scheel, T., Glass, A., and Bansemer, S. "Automatic construction of 
gene relation networks using text mining and gene expression data," Med Inform 
Internet Med (29:2) 2004, pp 169-183. 
17. Karp, R.M., and Rabin, M.O. "Efficient randomized pattern-matching 
algorithms," IBM J. Res. Dev. (31:2) 1987, pp 249-260. 
18. Kazama J, Makino T, Ohta Y, Tsujii J: Tuning Support Vector Machines for 
Biomedical Named Entity Recognition. Proc of the Workshop on Natural 
Language Processing in the Biomedical Domain (at ACL’2002) 2002:1-8. 
19. Koike, A., Kobayashi, Y., and Takagi, T. "Kinase pathway database: anintegrated 
protein-kinase and NLP-based protein-interac-tion resource," Genome Res 2003 
(13) 2003, pp 1231-1243. 
20. Lafferty J, McCallum A, Pereira F: Conditional random fields: Probabilistic 
models for segmenting and labeling sequence data. Proc 18th International Conf 
on Machine Learning 2001:282–289. 
21. Lee KJ, Hwang YS, Rim HC: Two-phase biomedical NE recognition based on 
SVMs. Proceedings of the ACL 2003 workshop on Natural language processing 
in biomedicine-Volume 13 2003:33-40.28.  
22. Leek, T.R. "Information Extraction Using Hidden Markov Models," in: 
Department of Computer Science, University of California, San Deigo, 1997. 
23. McCallum A, Freitag D, Pereira F: Maximum entropy Markov models for 
information extraction and segmentation. Proc 17th International Conf on 
Machine Learning 2000:591–598. 
24. Müller, K.-R., Mika, S., Rätsch, G., Tsuda, K., and Schölk, B. "An introduction to 
kernel-based learning algorithms," IEEE Neural Networks, (12:2) 2001, pp 
181-201. 
25. Pakhomov, S. "Semi-supervised maximum entropy based approach to acronym 
and abbreviation normalization in medical text," the 40th Annual Meeting of the 
Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), 2002. 
26. Palmer M, Gildea D, Kingsbury P: The Proposition Bank: An Annotated Corpus 
of Semantic Roles. Computational Linguistics 2005, 31(1):71-105.76. Schuler, 
G., Epstein, J., Ohkawa, H., and Kans, J. "Entrez: molecular biology database and 
retrieval system," Methods Enzymol (266:141-162) 1996. 
27. Shatkay, H., Edwards, S., Wilbur, W.J., and Boguski, M. "Genes, themes and 
microarrays: using information retrieval for large-scale gene analysis.," ISMB' 00, 
2000. 
28. Siegel S, Castellan JN: Nonparametric statistics for the behavioral sciences. 
Boston, MA: McGraw Hill; 1988. 
  12
