 1 
 
1 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Due to the scarcity of radio resources and low utilization of the wireless channels, cognitive radio (CR) has been widely 
studied in recent years. The basic concept of CR is to allow unlicensed users (secondary users) to perceive and utilize the unused 
channels of the licensed users (primary users). To further improve the flexibility and the efficiency of channel allocation, the new 
concept called dynamic spectrum access (DSA) has also been widely discussed. Instead of statically allocate the channels, DSA 
allows (secondary users) to dynamically access the channels according to their current channel conditions and demand [1]. 
Using auction approaches to allocate unused licensed channels in CR is a popular topic. Typically, in an auction scheme, 
primary users or/and secondary users first submit prices. Through a predetermined transaction mechanism, unused channels can 
be allocated to the secondary users. Through a bidding mechanism, requirement of users can be reflected, and channels can be 
efficiently allocated. However, there are still many issues remained to be solved in this field. First, the bidding process may yield 
additional signaling overhead of the system, especially if it requires multiple rounds. Second, users may collude with each other 
by sharing information and revenue. In this condition, they may decide a submitted price together to maximize their total revenue. 
This kind of collusion may reduce the effectiveness of the bidding approaches, and make the behavior of the system different 
from that originally designed.  
Many types of auction schemes are proposed to address different issues in CR. The authors in [2] design a game where each 
node uses its transmission time as bidding tokens. The winners of the game can access the channel but also has to use a part of 
transmission time to forward data for the primary users which provides the channels, thus enhancing the performance of both 
primary users and secondary users. 
The authors in [3] design another type of auction, where all primary users give their unused channels to a broker to let 
secondary users bid these channels. Two approaches, namely, first-price and second-price auction, and discussed, and the 
throughput and performance of these approaches are also analyzed and studied. A continuous auction scheme is studied in [4], 
where at most one bidder wins and accesses the channel in each single round. However, all above works assume that users will 
truthfully submit their real value and do not cheat and collude with each other. [5] analyzes the worst case performance of the 
auction among non-cooperative users. It also observes the probability of non-optimal performance by simulation. 
To prevent collusion, the authors in [6] propose a bidding scheme which adds some additional constraints. However, this may 
also limits the effectiveness of channel distribution, and thus reduce the system performance. [7] conducts allocation of DSA 
through a multi-round game. While [8] extends the study in [7] and let sellers of channels (i.e., primary users) use a belief 
mechanism to decide the prices so that collusions can be avoided. However, it takes a certain period of time (about 50 rounds) to 
reach a reliable belief value, which means additional overhead in a real environment. Moreover, proposed schemes in [3-8] only 
let secondary users bid the unused channels. The different costs of primary users are not considered. [9] considers a scheme 
where the primary users competing for sharing the channel to secondary users. Although this work considers the primary user, it 
aims to force all primary users to collide with each other to maximize the total payoff. Again, the overall performance of the 
system may not be maximized.  
In this research project, we propose a single-sound sealed auction scheme for allocating channels from multiple primary users 
to multiple secondary users. In our designed scheme Dual-Side Bidding (DSB), primary users and secondary users respectively 
submit the selling and buying prices of the channels. The allocation can be accomplished n a single round. Through analysis, we 
show that in DSB, even each node is selfish and only aims to maximize its own revenue, it truthfully submits the real value of 
their channels as the prices. Since the values of both primary users and the secondary users are considered in DSB, it cannot only 
reflect the channel requirement of both sides and thus achieve better system utilization, but also limit the occurrence of collusion. 
Neither primary users nor secondary users can find a simple strategy (such as increasing/decreasing their selling/buying prices) 
to collude. Since DSB only requires a single round for each allocation, it requires a very short period of time, and thus has very 
low overhead. 
The rest of this report is organized as follows. In section II, we detail the design of DSB. In section III, we analyze the 
behaviors users, study the overall performance, and discuss the possibility of collusion. The simulations are conducted and the 
results are discussed in IV. Finally, the report is concluded in V. 
II. DUAL-SIDE BIDDING (DSB) SCHEME 
A. System Model 
  
Let the number of primary users and secondary users in CR be M and N respectively. The primary users (called PUs hereafter) 
are denoted by 1PU , 2PU … MPU , while the secondary users (called SUs hereafter) are 1SU , 2SU … NSU . We assume that 
each PU owns one licensed channel and have a cost for that. Let ic  
represents the utility value of iPU ’s channel, 1≦i≦M. 
iPU  releases the channel to a secondary user only when it receive a price higher than ic . On the other hand, let iv  represent 
the utility value of iSU  
if it rents a channel from a PU. The price iSU  wishes to pay for a channel is not larger than iv .  
 
 3 
 
3 
...
...
...
pr
ic
e
user
1is
b
dealk
isb
Nis
b
1ip
p
dealk
ipp
Mip
p
dealb
dealp
dealk
 
Fig. 1 PUs and SUs in Dual-Side Bidding 
III. ANALYSIS 
A. Best Strategy of Users 
Basing on the game introduced above, we prove that users will submit their true value as the buying and selling price. 
In DSB, if an SU successfully buy a channel from a PU (i.e., becomes the first 1dealk  buyers), the price it has to pay is the 
price submitted by other user (the dealk th buyer). Therefore, the submitted price of an SU only affects whether the transaction 
happens, and does not alter the traded price 
kis
b  if the transaction takes place. 
Consider iSU  which values a channel with iv  and submits the buying price ib  to the broker. Three different strategies of 
submitting ib  can be discussed as follows: 
Case I: to honestly submit the buying price as its value ( ii vb  )  
If iSU  submits its true value iv  as the highest acceptable bidding price, its revenue can be expressed as: 





dealii
dealiideali
bbv
bbvbv
0
0
 
, where dealb  
is the traded price iSU  should pay if it wins the auction. 
Case II: to raise the buying price ( ii vb  )  
If the submitted price is higher than the truth value, the revenue of iSU can be expressed as: 








ideal
idealideali
dealideali
bb
vbbbv
bvbv
0
0
0
 
In this strategy, when ideali vbb  , the revenue becomes negative. While in other conditions, the revenue is identical to that 
of the honest strategy. Therefore, submitting a larger buying price only reduces the revenue. 
Case III: to lowering the bid ( ii vb  )  
On the other hand, if the submitted buying price is lower than the truth value, the revenues of iSU  can be expressed as: 








ideal
ideali
dealideali
vb
bbv
bbbv
0
0
0
 
If ideali bbv  , the revenue of the user becomes 0. However, if iSU  submits the truth value, it can get a positive revenue 
in this case. Since in other situations, the revenue is identical to the honest strategy, lowering the buying price bid will only 
reduces the revenue. 
Basing on above discussion, we know that in DSB, all SUs submit their truth value to BB so that there revenue can be 
maximized. Since DSB is designed in a symmetry way, we can use the similar approach to prove that PUs also submit their truth 
value to BB. Therefore, both PUs and SUs act truthfully in our proposed approach. 
B. Channel Utilization 
Next we analyze the utilization gain provided by DSB. The maximum possible utilization gain of the system can be expressed 
as 
 5 
 
5 
 
Fig. 2 Average total utilization of different approaches  
(M=5, N=5~50). 
 
 
Fig. 3 Average total utilization of different approaches. (M=1~50, N=50). 
 
B. Simulation II 
Next we fix N at 50 and adjust M from 1 to 50 to observe how the number of PU affects the performance. Similarly, we 
conduct the simulation in each single setting for 100 runs and average the results. 
As shown in fig. 3, comparing to “without bidding,” DSB highly improves the total utilization, and this gap increases as in the 
value of M grows. This is because the more the PUs are, the more channels SUs can buy. And the increased number of 
transactions improves the utilization of the whole system. 
As the analysis shows, the performance difference between our proposed approach and optimal solution is only dealdeal pb  , 
so the performance of DSB is very close to the optimal solution. Even when collusion happens, the system utilization is largely 
improved and is close to the optimum. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
to
ta
l 
u
ti
li
ty
 
number of secondary users 
DSB
optimal solution
without bidding
collusion
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
to
ta
l 
u
ti
li
ty
 
number of primary users 
DSB
optimal solution
without bidding
collusion
 7 
 
7 
Communications and IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technologies. The results of this project have considerable academic 
values, and we will look for the possibilities to conduct implementation in the future. 
傳輸的速率與省電能力，都會遠遠超過現有技術。 
 
Cognitive Radio目前尚有許多議題尚待解決。這些議題包括：頻寬如何偵測、如何不干
擾現有用戶、用戶之間因為使用的通道持續變動，因此又要如何穩定通訊等，具有相當
的研究價值。 
 
車用網路(Vehicular Networks) 
車用網路使用類似Wi-Fi的通訊介面進行車與車，或是車與路邊基地台間的傳輸。主要
的應用在於提供駕駛各種行車相關的所需資訊，如即時路況、交通事故、目的地資訊等
等。這個技術自然是 VTC該社群的討論主軸。 
 
車用網路目前的最大研究問題在於，所有車輛都是移動的，彼此的相對位置十分不固
定，因此如何保持連線的順暢，並將資料成功送到目的地，都是熱門的研究議題。另外
由於車用網路的應用十分多元而且廣泛，因此如何設計一個可以支援各種不同應用的通
訊協定，也是一個重要的研究方向。 
 
超寬頻(Ultra Wide Band, UWB) 
超寬頻是一個已經慢慢從理論進入實測階段的技術。由於天線與射頻技術的演進，過去
難以使用的 60GHz高頻段，已慢慢被利用來傳輸。高頻傳輸雖然速度較快，但傳輸距
離也較短，因此該技術主要是鎖定近距離高速度的傳輸，也就是數位家電與多媒體方面。 
 
UWB技術主要瞄準藍芽的短距資料傳輸這一塊市場需求。由於 UWB速度遠比藍芽更
高，未來甚至連家中的 DVD、音響與電視之間，也不需要再用傳輸線連接，便可以傳
輸極高畫質的影音內容。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
無 
 
四、建議 
無 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
論文光碟一份與會議議程一本。 
 
 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
more challenging in an RS-supported network. The 
graph in Fig. 1 represents a network containing a 
BS, three RSs and two recipient SSs. The weight of 
each edge refers to the resource required to deliver 
the stream through the link. If each SS chooses the 
shortest route to the BS independently (an intuitive 
approach), SS1 and SS2 would connect to the BS 
via RS1 and RS2 respectively. Since both RSs can 
receive the stream from the BS simultaneously, but 
have to transmit it to the two SSs separately, the 
total required resource is 1+5+5=11. In this case, 
the existence of the RSs does not improve the 
allocation efficiency because it requires more 
resources than simply using the BS to multicast (i.e., 
8). However, if RS3 receives the stream via route 
“BS→RS1→RS3” and multicasts it to the two SSs, 
the resource consumption can be reduced to 
1+1+5=7. Given a service budget of, say, 7, only 
the latest setting can serve both SSs. This example 
shows that finding an efficient multicast route is a 
critical issue in wireless relay networks. 
A number of works address the problem of 
multicast routing. For example, Minimum-Energy 
Broadcast (MEB) and Minimum-Energy Multicast 
(MEM) problems are discussed in [7-10]. MEB tries 
to minimize the total energy required to broadcast a 
stream to a given set of nodes; while MEM is more 
general and even allows non-subscriber nodes to 
relay data. Although our problem may seem similar 
to MEM initially, it is substantially different 
because a separate copy of the data stream is sent to 
each recipient under MEM; while in our problem, 
multiple SSs can receive the stream simultaneously 
via one transmission from the sender. Topology 
Control in ad hoc networks is related topic. As a 
representative study, [11] proposes a decentralized 
scheme, which forms a broadcast topology that 
reduces the transmission power and satisfies the 
network constraints. However, like MEM, this type 
of scheme is not suitable for an infrastructural 
network because it assumes that nodes have equal 
forwarding capabilities, whereas multicast in relay 
networks is always from the BS/RSs to the SSs.  
Since no existing works focus on multicast 
recipient maximization, we design some primitive 
solutions in previous works. In [12], a DSS scheme 
based on a fixed topology is proposed. Under this 
scheme, the recipient groups of each RS are 
predetermined, and DSS adjusts the resources 
allocated to RSs to maximize the number of SSs 
served. As shown in Fig. 1, the performance of this 
kind of scheme can be worse than that of the 
BS-only allocation approach. Another method 
called MSS is proposed in [13]. It decides the 
multicast route by using a greedy method starting 
from the BS-only allocation. Although MSS always 
outperforms the BS-only allocation, it falls into the 
local-maximum easily. Furthermore, DSS and MSS 
schemes have limited feasibility and performance 
because they only allow one-hop relaying at most. 
That is, each RS can only receive data from the BS, 
and is not allowed to relay data for other RSs. If the 
two schemes are applied in a larger-scale network 
with more RSs and broader coverage, distant SSs 
may experience poor service quality because they 
may never be reached by the relaying of RSs. It is 
difficult to relax the constraint because determining 
the source (i.e., sender) of each RS increases the 
complexity of the problem substantially.  
To address the constraints and completely solve 
this issue, we formulate a general multicast problem 
called Multi-Hop Recipient Maximization (MHRM), 
and prove that it is NP-hard. We also propose a 
heuristic called Multicast Path Selection (MPS) to 
solve the problem. The results of simulations 
conducted to evaluate the heuristic’s performance 
demonstrate that it significantly outperforms all 
existing schemes under different RS densities and 
resource budgets. This is because it relaxes the hop 
limit and utilizes RSs and resources more efficiently. 
Since the problem is modeled in a very general way, 
we believe the heuristic provides an ideal multicast 
solution for all kinds of wireless relay networks.  
The remainder of this paper is organized as 
follows. In Section II, we formulate MHRM and 
analyze its difficulty; and in Section III, we 
introduce MPS and discuss its complexity. In 
Section IV, we evaluate MPS’s performance via 
simulations and compare it with that of existing 
schemes. Section VI contains some concluding 
remarks. 
II. THE MULTI-HOP RECIPIENT MAXIMIZATION (MHRM) 
PROBLEM 
TABLE I The notations used throughout the paper 
Y Number of RSs 
N Number of SSs 
jir ,  
The resource required to transmit from node i to j 
[y,n]
 
The node that has the nth smallest 
],[, nyiy
r  
activated (i.e., 1)( 
y
B ), ]1,))(()(min[
0
,


Y
y
ynyyy rnarastepB  
indicates if node n receives the stream successfully, 
the performance of   in solving MHRM is 
 

 

NY
Yn
Y
y
ynyyy
MHRM rnarastepBR
1 0
, ]1,))(()(min[)( . 
C. The Complexity of MHRM 
Theorem 2.1: MHRM is NP-hard. 
Proof:  
We consider another problem called MRM, 
which was shown to be NP-complete by Theorem 
2.1 in our previous work [12]. Although MRM also 
maximizes the number of SSs that can be served 
with the given budget, it differs from MHRM in two 
respects: (i) only the BS can send data to each RS; 
and (ii) each SS receives from a predetermined 
sender. Therefore, an instance of MRM can be 
specified by following parameters: the budget budgetr , 
the resource each RS y requires to receive from the 
BS (i.e., MRMyr ,0  for all Yy 0 ), each SS n’s 
predetermined sender ny , and the resource the SS 
requires to receive data from ny  (i.e., 
MRM
nyn
r ,  for all 
NYnY 1 ). This instance can be transformed into 
an instance of MHRM as follows: (i) for all 
Yyy  2,10 ,  
otherwiser
yr
r
large
MRM
y
yy
01
{
2,0
2,1

 ;  (ii) for all 
Yy 0  and NYnY 1 , 
otherwiser
yyr
r
large
n
MRM
ny
ny
n

 ,, { , 
where larger  can be any value larger than budgetr . In 
the transformed MHRM, each SS can only connect 
to the predetermined sender, and each RS can only 
receive from the BS, because other transmissions 
require resource more than budgetr . Since MHRM can 
represent any instance of MRM, it is more general 
than a problem that is known to be NP-hard. 
Therefore, MHRM is also NP-hard.▋ 
III. THE PROPOSED HEURISTIC: MULTICAST PATH 
SELECTION (MPS) 
Subsection A introduces an auxiliary graph that 
helps explain the logic of our heuristic. The 
proposed scheme Multicast Path Selection (MPS) is 
detailed in Subsection B, and the complexity of 
MPS is analyzed in Subsection C. 
A. Auxiliary Graph and Allocating Path 
The auxiliary graph shown in Fig. 2 represents a 
network containing a BS (node 0), two RSs (nodes 
1 and 2) and five SSs (nodes 3 to 7). Note that the 
graph illustrates the multiple service positions of 
each node; thus, the concept is different to that of 
the graph in Fig. 1. In this weighted directed graph, 
each branch represents a sender’s servable nodes, 
where all SSs and the more distant RSs are placed 
in increasing order of the amount of the resource 
they require. That is, each ],[ ny  is represented by 
the nth position on branch y of the graph. In 
addition, the total distance from ]0,[y  to each ],[ ny  
is )(nray . For example, node 6 has three positions, 
i.e., 6]2,2[]3,1[]7,0[  iii , and it takes 
2.52.122)3( 6,11  rra  for RS 1 to serve 6. Next, 
we consider the relay behavior of RSs. Each RS 
must receive a stream from any former sender 
before forwarding it. To reflect this, for all branches 
y>0, the branches’ heads [y,0] are directed from all 
of its positions on former branches with a 
0-weighted edge, and the sender can only multicast 
if any of the positions are served. For example, 
sender 2 ([2,0]) can only be activated if either [0,3] 
or [1,2] is served. Based on this setting, we can 
determine whether a node can receive the stream 
from the BS by checking if there exists a route from 
the BS to it, where all intermediate nodes are 
allocated. With this graph, an allocation   can be 
represented as a subtree rooted at [0,0] and 
containing the first yna  positions of each branch y. 
Therefore, MHRM can be visualized as follows: 
given the auxiliary graph, find the subtree that 
maximizes the number of SSs that are covered on at 
least one branch, subject to the constraint that the 
total weight does not exceed budgetr .  
005
3
7
1
2
0 1 2
4
2
6
5
7
6
4
3
5
7
34
6
3
1
2
1.6
6
6
7
2
0 1.2
2
4
5
5
4
1
4
5
6
5,0r
2,0r
3,0r
7,0r
1,0r
4,0r
6,0r
6,2r
4,2r
5,2r
3,2r
7,2r4,1
r
5,1r
2,1r
3,1r
7,1r
6,1r
 
average utility 
3
1
12213
3


.After the first round, SSs 5, 4 
and 7 are served, so 3tempR , and ]1,0,1,1,0,1,1,1[B . In 
addition, MPS  is updated as ]1,2,2[ . In the second round, path 
]}3,1[]2,1{[   is chosen and node 6 is served because its average 
utility (
6
5
2.1
1
 ) is larger than all other possible paths, including 
]}4,0[]2,0{[  , which is chosen in the final round. In this way, 
the path MPS includes may traverse through many RSs, thus 
releasing the hop constraint of the former works. Also, the 
performance difference between MPS and the optimal solution 
can be proved to be bounded. However, due to the space limit, 
we are not able to provide the analysis here. 
Input: budgetr  and jir ,  for all NYji  ,0  
Output:
 
],...,,[ 10
MPS
Y
MPSMPSMPS nanana  
find ],[ nyi  and )(nray
 
for all y and n;
 
]0,...,0,0,0[MPS ; 0tempR ; ]0,...,0,0,1[B ; 
budgetresidue rr  ; 
do, 
)(
)),((
max
)(
max
Prr
RPR
u
tempMPSMHRM
 pnpP MPS




; 
)(
)),((
maxarg
)(
max
Prr
RPR
P
tempMPSMHRM
 pnpP MPS




; 
if ( 0max u ), exit do loop; 
for h=1 to maxPH , 
maxP
h
temp yy  ; 
for 
tempn = 1
max
, 
P
Shn  to 
max
,
P
Ehn :  
)1()(  temp
y
temp
y
nranrar temptemp ; 
if ( residuerr  ), exit do loop; 
rrr residueresidue  ; 
  if ( Yi temptemp ny ],[ and 0][ ],[ temptemp nyiB ), 
1 temptemp RR ; 
end if; 
1][
],[
temptemp nyiB ; 
tempMPS
y
nna temp  ; 
exit for; 
exit for; 
loop; 
return 
MPS ; 
Figure 3. The steps of MPS 
C. Computational Complexity 
Theorem 3.1 The complexity of MPS is )( 22NMYO . 
Proof: 
The complexity of finding ],[ nyi  and )(nray  is 
))log(()))log(()(( NYNOYNYNYO   because each sender 
y needs to sort the nodes on its branch. The number 
of nodes is N+Y at most (Y>N since there are 
normally more SSs than RSs). Next, for each 
selected maxP , it always satisfies that 
0)()),((  MPSMHRMMPSMHRM RPR  so that 0max u  and the 
loop continues. Therefore, in each round, maxP  
serves at least one SS that is not served in the old 
MPS . Since there are N SSs, the do loop runs at most 
)(NO  times. Next, we consider the complexity of 
finding maxu  and maxP . As there are )( yNY   
positions on branch y, a graph has totally 
)()
2
(...)1()( YNON
Y
YNNYNY   positions; thus, 
a single path contains at most )(YNO  positions. It 
therefore takes )(YNO  to find the average utility of 
a path because MPS must traverse all nodes in P to 
calculate )(Prr  and )),(( PR MPSMHRM  . Since there 
are at most M paths in each round, the total 
complexity of finding maxu  and maxP  is )(MYNO . 
Similarly, the execution time of the first and second 
for loops is totally )(YNO  because they traverse 
each position of maxP
 
together. By combining the 
above analysis, the complexity of MPS is 
)())())log((( 22NMYOYNMYNYNYNYNO  .▋ 
IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS 
A. Simulation Settings 
The simulation settings are as follows. First, we 
consider the node placement strategy. The 
coordinates of the BS are set at (0,0), and the RSs 
and SSs are distributed randomly in the service area 
of the BS, i.e., a circle that is centered at (0,0) and 
has a radius of 100. Next, the well-known model 
proposed in [14] is used to determine the required 
resource based on the node distribution. The channel 
quality is proportional to ad  , where d is the 
distance between nodes, and a is the channel 
attenuation factor, which is usually between 2 and 4. 
Inversely, the resource required to transmit the 
service through each channel is acd , where c is a 
constant. Since we define the maximal budget 
(100%) as the amount that is just sufficient for the 
BS to serve the most distant node in its coverage, 
a
c
100
1
  and 
a
jiaji
dr ,,
100
1
 , where jid ,  is the distance 
between any node i and j. We set a=4 because MPS 
is designed to operate in a large-scale network 
affected by serious distance attenuation. Finally, 
since the nodes are randomly distributed, for each 
setting, we run the simulation 1000 times and 
average the results to derive the final result. In 
Council, Taiwan, under the grant number 
99-2221-E-155-009 and 
100-2221-E-155-058-MY3. 
REFERENCES 
[1] 802.16j Baseline Document, “Baseline Document for Draft Standard for 
Local and Metropolitan Area Networks,” IEEE 802.16j-06/026r2, 2007. 
[2] J. Shin, D.-K. Le and H.-S. Cho, “Is a Multi-Hop Relay Scheme Gainful 
in an IEEE 802.22-Based Cognitive Radio System?” IEICE Transactions 
on Communications, Vol. E92-B No.11, 2009. 
[3] J. Robinson and E. Knightly, “A Performance Study of Deployment 
Factors in Wireless Mesh Networks,” in Proceedings of IEEE 
INFOCOM 2007. 
[4] J. Camp, J. Robinson, C. Steger, and E. Knightly, “Measurement Driven 
Deployment of a Two-Tier Urban Mesh Access Network,” in 
Proceedings of ACM MOBISYS 2006. 
[5] J.-F. Lee, W. Liao, and M.-C. Chen, “An Incentive-based Fairness 
Mechanism for Multi-hop Wireless Backhaul Networks with Selfish 
Nodes,” IEEE Trans. on Wireless Communications, Vol. 7, No. 2, Feb. 
2008. 
[6] A. J. Goldsmith and S.-G. Chua, “Adaptive coded modulation for fading 
channels,” IEEE Trans. on Communications, Vol.46, Issue 5, 1998. 
[7] J.E. Wieselthier, G. D. Nguyen et al, “On the Construction of 
Energy-Efficient Broadcast and Multicast Trees in Wireless Networks,” 
in Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM 2000. 
[8] O. Egecioglu and T.Gonzalez, “Minimum-energy broadcast in simple 
graphs with limited node power,” in Proceedings of ICPDCS, August 
2001. 
[9] D. Li, X. Jia and H. Liu, “Energy Efficient Broadcast Routing in Static 
Ad Hoc Wireless Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, 
Vol.3, No. 2, 2004. 
[10] S. Guo and O. Yang, “A dynamic multicast tree reconstruction algorithm 
for minimum-energy multicasting in wireless ad hoc networks,” in 
Proceedings of IEEE IPCCC, Jun. 2005. 
[11] K. Miyao, H. Nakayama, N. Ansari and N. Kato, “LTRT: An Efficient 
and Reliable Topology Control Algorithm for Ad-Hoc Networks,” IEEE 
Transactions on Wireless Communications, Vol. 8, No. 12, Dec. 2009, 
pp.6050~6058. 
[12] W.-H. Kuo and J.-F. Lee, “Multicast Recipient Maximization in IEEE 
802.16j WiMAX Relay Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular 
Technology, Vol. 59, Issue 1, pp. 335, Jan. 2010. 
[13] W.-H. Kuo, and J.-F. Lee, “Multicast Routing Scheme for Recipient 
Maximization in Wireless Relay Networks,” IEEE Trans. on Vehicular 
Technology, Vol. 59, Issue 8, pp. 4002-4011, Oct. 2010. 
[14] T. S. Rappaport, “Wireless Communications: Principles and Practices,” 
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1996.
表 Y04 
You can register at http://www.ieee-globecom.org/2011/. 
 
(4) No-Show Policy: 
PLEASE NOTE:  To be published in the IEEE GLOBECOM 2011 Conference Proceedings and IEEE Xplore® , 
an author of an accepted paper is required to register for the conference at the FULL or LIMITED (member or 
non-member) rate and must present the paper at the conference.  Non-refundable registration fees must be paid 
prior to uploading the final IEEE formatted, publication-ready version of the paper.  For authors with multiple 
accepted papers, one full registration is valid for up to 3 papers.  Accepted papers will be published in the IEEE 
GLOBECOM 2011 Conference Proceedings.  Accepted and presented papers will also be published in IEEE 
Xplore® . 
 
(5) Non-discrimination policy: 
"IEEE is committed to the principle that all persons shall have equal access to programs, facilities, services, and 
employment without regard to personal characteristics not related to ability, performance, or qualifications as 
determined by IEEE policy and/or applicable laws.  For more information on the IEEE policy, please visit 
<http://www.ieee.org/nondiscrimination>http://www.ieee.org/nondiscrimination 
 
(6) Logistics: 
We suggest you make your airline and hotel reservations as early as possible.  Additionally, if you need visa 
assistance you can get a letter through EDAS. 
 
Please refine your paper according to the review comments (see below) before making the final camera-ready 
paper submission. 
 
Thank you and best regards, 
 
Xi Zhang 
TPC Chair, IEEE GLOBECOM 2011 
 
------------------------------------------- 
Reviewers' Comments: 
 
The reviews for your paper are below or can be found at http://edas.info/showPaper.php?m=1569416195, using 
your EDAS login name whkuo@saturn.yzu.edu.tw. 
 
======= Review 1 ======= 
 
> *** Strong aspects: Comments to the author: what are the strong aspects of the paper 
 
The paper is mostly well organized. It proposes a new approach called MPS as a solution to MHRM in multicast 
relay networks. It addresses an interesting issue of multicasting in wireless networks. 
表 Y04 
 
I guess that the last paragraph points out Fig. 4 (b). Thus, it needs to be mentioned, similar to part (a). 
 
See also weak aspects! 
 
> *** Relevance and timeliness: Rate the importance and timeliness of the topic addressed in the paper within its 
area of research. 
Good (4) 
 
> *** Technical content and scientific rigour: Rate the technical content of the paper (e.g.: completeness of the 
analysis or simulation study, thoroughness of the treatise, accuracy of the models, etc.), its soundness and 
scientific rigour. 
Solid work of notable importance. (4) 
 
> *** Novelty and originality: Rate the novelty and originality of the ideas or results presented in the paper. 
Some interesting ideas and results on a subject well investigated. (3) 
 
> *** Quality of presentation: Rate the paper organization, the clearness of text and figures, the completeness and 
accuracy of references. 
Well written. (4) 
 
======= Meta review 2 ======= 
 
> *** Strong aspects: Comments to the author: what are the strong aspects of the paper 
 
A new method to improve building multicast multihop trees. The idea can be used in modern radio technos that 
use such requirements of relaying. The paper is another version of a former paper... 
 
> *** Weak aspects: Comments to the author: what are the weak aspects of the paper? 
 
It looks like the author cuts his work into pieces to maximize the number of publications. 
the references are good but show that the problem was actually important ten years ago, so it is somehow solved 
today. 
 
> *** Recommended changes: Recommended changes. Please indicate any changes that should be made to the 
paper if accepted. 
 
please show the impact of number of links per node and explain whether it has an impact on the algorithm or not. 
also if you can put in the introduction an example of a real wireless multi hop multicast wireless case with 802.16j 
for example, that would help. remember that this conference is not a graph theory conference but a network one 
and your audience if any is from the networking side... 
表 Y04 
scientific rigour. 
Solid work of notable importance. (4) 
 
> *** Novelty and originality: Rate the novelty and originality of the ideas or results presented in the paper. 
Significant original work and novel results. (4) 
 
> *** Quality of presentation: Rate the paper organization, the clearness of text and figures, the completeness and 
accuracy of references. 
Well written. (4) 
 
======= Meta review 4 ======= 
 
> *** Strong aspects: Comments to the author: what are the strong aspects of the paper 
 
The problem of scheduling using relays for multicast is an important and relevant problem. The author has 
examined this problem in detail in this paper and has proposed a heuristic for solving this problem. The author has 
demonstrated that proposed heuristic, i.e., multicast path selection (MPS) performs well. 
 
> *** Weak aspects: Comments to the author: what are the weak aspects of the paper? 
 
Although the introduction section is easy to understand, the remaining sections are hard to read. It took me several 
hours and a lot of trial and error to really understand what the symbols in sections 2 and 3 mean. The presentation 
of this paper needs some simplification. 
 
> *** Recommended changes: Recommended changes. Please indicate any changes that should be made to the 
paper if accepted. 
 
- Section 2-A on page 3. Please simplify the notations. Remove unnecessary notation. Provide a discussion of the 
intuition behind MHRM in words before jumping straight into the equations. 
- Section 3-A on page 4 - provide a discussion of the intuition behind MPS and why it works before jumping 
straight into the equations. 
- If Figure 1 and Figure 2 discuss the same example, it will be much easier to understand. 
 
> *** Relevance and timeliness: Rate the importance and timeliness of the topic addressed in the paper within its 
area of research. 
Excellent (5) 
 
> *** Technical content and scientific rigour: Rate the technical content of the paper (e.g.: completeness of the 
analysis or simulation study, thoroughness of the treatise, accuracy of the models, etc.), its soundness and 
scientific rigour. 
Solid work of notable importance. (4) 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/07/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 認知型射頻下頻道共用拍賣機制之設計
計畫主持人: 郭文興
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-155-009- 學門領域: 網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
