 I
 
摘要 
 
近年來由於質譜相關技術的快速成長，使得蛋白質體學在生物醫學方面對於
癌症之診斷、檢驗等逐漸受到重視。但是質譜資料在分類工作中，往往受到資料
的高維度所困擾。另外，資料庫中存在的雜訊干擾，也是必須解決的問題之ㄧ。
本計畫因此針對質譜技術之“表面加強雷射脫附游離 – 飛行時間＂所取得的
攝護腺癌症蛋白質體資料庫做前置處理方面的研究，主要目的在於過濾雜訊以及
降低維度，並且盡量避免資料失真。研究方法經過四個步驟的前置處理：去除基
線、正規化、過濾雜訊挑選维度、對齊刻度，各個步驟都是針對資料的特性所設
計，並對資料產生過程中可能造成的誤差予以調整。而其中過濾雜訊並挑選维度
的步驟中，使用的演算法為改進的“MEP Search＂，其為一有效且低運算量的處
理方式。本文並對所提出之前置處理資料，予以數值驗證，將處理後資料以分類
演算法檢驗其資訊保存效果。在驗證結果中，證實本研究方法在有效降低維度至
原始資料的 1.5/100~1/100，仍可保持良好的分類效果。換言之，本研究的前置處
理的確在保存資料的重要資訊情況下，能有效的過濾訊號並降低維度。 
 
關鍵詞：質譜圖、蛋白質體學、去除基線、正規化、質譜峰偵測、質譜峰對齊 
 1 
Peak Detection and Alignment of Mass Spectrometry 
Proteomic Data 
 
Grace J. Hwang 
 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, 
Fu Jen Catholic University, Taipei, Taiwan 
jihwang@csie.fju.edu.tw 
Abstract. With the fast development of mass spectrometry technology, 
application of proteomics to the classification and the diagnosis of cancer has 
become an important research field. However, the classification of proteomic 
data is usually hindered by the excessively high dimension and the present of 
noise. This leads us to the study of the data preprocessing and develop a novel 
four-step procedure for proteomic data. The objectives of our approach are to 
reduce the data dimensions and remove the noise in the data under the premise 
by keeping the important features. In particular, an algorithm called Maximum 
Envelope Peak Search (MEP search) is developed for peak detection. MEP 
search is a simple and low cost computational method to determine the peaks 
from a proteomic spectra data. The MEP search, as well as other data 
preprocessing steps, is implemented and demonstrated in comparison with a 
manual peak selection method using a proteomic data set. The results have 
shown that our method is comparable with the manual selection method. This 
indicates that our approach provides an advantage of fully automated data 
preprocessing and may have potential being used for other type of spectral data 
sets, such as gas chromatographic data. 
Keywords: Mass spectrometry, proteomics, baseline subtraction, normalization, 
peak alignment, peak detection. 
1   Introduction 
In recent years, rapid development in the application of mass spectrometry in 
proteomics studies prompts to the need of new strategies for the data analysis.  
Surface Enhanced Laser Desorption/Ionization Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry 
(SELDI TOF MS) is a high throughput technology for the detection of many protein 
simultaneously. It only needs very small amount of sample, such as body fluids or 
lysate from organisms or tissues, for the assay and it virtually takes only few minutes 
to read a single sample. However, the mass spectrometer generates excessively high 
dimensional spectra data which demands for a more effective and efficient way to 
analyze the data. The major challenge for analyzing spectral data is how to reduce 
both the noise and dimensionality before we can select the relevant features for 
further analysis, such as classification or clustering analysis. Hence, a preprocessing 
procedure has been developed and presented in this study. 
 3 
investigated the effect of their approach in the cases of binary classifications, and 
Yasui et al. [8] considered 3-way classification only. In this study, we perform 2-, 3- 
and 4- way classifications on both automatic and manual data sets in computational 
experiments and compared their results to show the validity of the four-step procedure. 
As to the related works of data preprocessing for mass spectra, there is a great deal of 
effort that has been made on this problem, such as [1, 6, 8, 10-14]. However, it seems 
to lack for providing a systematic approach in detail for the entire procedure of data 
preprocessing. 
3   Methods 
To assist data analysis of high-dimensional complex proteomic data, we developed a 
four-step procedure for data preprocessing. These four steps are baseline subtraction, 
normalization, peak detection/selection, and peak alignment. We will describe how to 
implement each step in this section. In particular, the MEP search used for peak 
detection and selection is introduced and explained in detail. 
3.1   Baseline Subtraction  
The baseline is an offset of the intensities in the y-value, which happens mainly at 
small x-value of m/z ratios, and baseline subtraction is used to eliminate the excess 
baseline for each sample. After the process of baseline subtraction, the resulting 
spectrum is hovering slightly above zero value of intensity and maintaining the peaks 
in their true intensities. The baseline adjustment method we applied is based on the 
approach of Wong [9] and used the percentage of spectra range as a parameter to 
define a window size. The sensitivity of baseline subtraction depends on the window 
size; a smaller window size which causes a higher sensitivity and removes more 
baselines in the adjustment. The parameter setting for our procedure was 10% of 
spectral range. 
3.2   Normalization 
The purpose of intensity normalization is to identify and eliminate any systematic 
effects between mass spectra. The normalization approach we developed is very 
simple and can be calculated using the following three steps:  
1. For a certain sample, compute its total intensities, or called total area under the 
curve (AUC): 
total intensities = AUC = Σi intensity (xi) (1) 
 
where the intensity(xi) represents the intensity at the ith value of m/z.  
 5 
 
Fig. 1.  An illustrative example for MEP search 
A portion of the resulting 4-point MEP search is shown in Table 1. Note that a point 
is corresponding to a local maximum in the several searches of consequent sliding 
windows, we only store the point and its intensity (not shown in the table) for the first 
time. For instance, point 7 is not stored again in the window starting at point 5. 
Table 1.  Applying 4-point MEP in the illustrative example shown in Fig. 1 
Start Point Search Points Maximum Point Data Disposition 
1 1 2 3 4 4 Store 
2 2 3 4 5 5 Store 
3 3 4 5 6 6 Store 
4 4 5 6 7 7 Store 
5 5 6 7 8 7 No store 
… … … … … … … 
       
12 12 13 14 15 13 Store 
… … … … … … … 
24 24 25 26 27 24 No store 
25 25 26 27  25 Store 
26 26 27   26 Store 
27 27    27 Store 
 
The step after the MEP search is to smooth out the mass spectrometry by using the 
linear interpolation. Thus, we only keep the original information at the point 
corresponding to a local maximum. For those points not stored during the process of 
MEP search, their intensities are interpolated using the left and right nearest neighbor 
points to estimate. The calculation is shown as follows. 
 7 
3.4   Peak Alignment 
The step of peak alignment for proteomic data also plays an important role during the 
data preprocessing. Since there is always a difference in the samples due to machine 
drift that does not reflect any real sample variations, peak alignment is then required 
to detect and adjust these variations between samples. The procedure of our peak 
alignment is stated as follows: 
 
1. Generate an average spectrum from each group of patients. 
2. Perform MEP search on each average spectrum of each group. 
3. Collect the common peaks from the average samples in step 2. The set that 
contains these common peaks is considered as the reference sample. 
4. Align each sample with the reference sample. 
 
In the first step of the procedure, the average spectrum is produced from the original 
mass spectral data without doing noise removal. The reason to do this way is to 
reserve the characteristics before averaging and keep the features within the groups. 
However, the average spectrum obtained in step1 is still needed to perform the MEP 
search. This step is not for peak detection and selection, but also for noise removal. 
After step 2, each average spectrum may be represented as a reference for each group 
of patients. However, we do not use them separately in the alignment process. If we 
take them as reference samples, then we may have the difficulty to predict the label of 
a new sample. We therefore consider the set containing all common peaks as our 
reference sample. 
The basic technique in the alignment is to slide each sample along different m/z 
ratios along X-axis. The window size is varied and dependent on the m/z ratio at any 
point. In our implementation, the window size is a parameter and defined as m/z ratio 
± r%, where r is mainly affected by the instrument resolution or calibration. For 
example, the variance for SELDI may be ±0.1% - ±0.2% [6, 8, 9]. 
The setting parameter of the window size must be handled with care. A larger 
window size would be reliable to contain all the peaks reflected to the same point of 
m/z ratio. However, it may also have the possibility to include spuriously associated 
peaks. 
4   Experimental Results  
The purpose of our study is to provide a data preprocessing procedure for proteomic 
data. To validate the effect of our approach, we utilized the four-step procedure to the 
prostate cancer data set to generate a low dimensional data set. We then applied the 
classification algorithm of decision tree to this new processed data set and evaluated 
its classification accuracies using 2-, 3-, and 4-way experiments. 
The accuracies of six categories of binary classifications, and 3-, 4-way 
classifications with different parameter settings of window sizes in MEP search are 
shown in Table 2. The numbers listed on row 2 are the dimensions of the new 
generated data sets. As we have mentioned in section 3.3, the number of peaks 
 9 
processed data sets to measure their performance. The computational results using 10 
times of ten-fold cross validations were shown in Table 3. The results have shown 
that our method is comparable with the manual selection method. This indicates that 
our approach provides an advantage of fully automated for data preprocessing. 
5   Conclusion  
This study focuses on the development of a preprocess strategy to analyze a prostate 
cancer database generated by SELDI system. The major obstacle of cancer 
classification and discovering biomarker from proteomic data is the excessively high 
dimension and the disturbance by the noise. Therefore we have developed a four-step 
preprocessing approach and used it to analyze the prostate cancer database. From the 
experimental results, the effectiveness of our proposed method has been proven. The 
results indicate that the problem of data noise could be handled efficiently and the 
number of dimension was able to be reduced dramatically without losing important 
features. 
Besides the results shown in Section 4, we also performed some other numerical 
experiments in our study, such as an individual testing for every single step of the 
four-step procedure. According to the results we had, although the performance of 
baseline subtraction was not satisfactory in some certain cases, it seemed that the step 
was still required and indeed improved the results of the classifications in most cases. 
In the experiments of other three steps, the benefits from these processes were quite 
obvious. 
Regarding the performance of the entire procedure of data preprocessing, the 
results shown in Section 4 were quite successful. In particular, the step of the MEP 
search for peak detection and selection was very crucial to data reduction. In our 
numerical results (not shown in this paper), we found that we could reduce the 
number of peaks down to 500 and the classification accuracies were still satisfied and 
comparable to the data set with 700 peaks. This result indicates that the MEP search 
seemed to be an appropriate approach for peak detection and selection.  
Finally, the experimental results have shown that the proposed four-step procedure 
is comparable with a manual data processing method. This indicates that our approach 
provides a systematic approach for data preprocessing and has an advantage of fully 
automatic. This also designates that the approach may have potential being used for 
other type of spectral data sets, such as gas chromatographic data. 
References  
1. Eric T. Fung and Cynthia Enderwick, “ProteinChip Clinical Proteomics: Computational 
Challenges and Solutions”, Computational Proteomics Supplement 32 pp. S34-S41, March 
2002. 
2. BL. Adam, Y.Qu, J. Davis, M. Ward, M. Clements, L. Cazares, OJ. Semmes, P. 
Schellhammer, Y. Yasui, Z. Feng, and G. Wright Jr. “Serum Protein Fingerprinting Coupled 
計畫成果自評 
 
本研究內容之主幹與原計畫相當符合，依據原計畫發展推導質譜峰偵測與
對齊之演算法，並撰寫程式以作為數值驗證，另外也完成去除基線與正規
化之實作；不但達成預期目標之質譜峰偵測、質譜峰對齊，並提出、開發
四步驟之完整質譜資料之前置處理，即去除基線、正規化、質譜峰偵測、
質譜峰對齊。而其前置處理過後之質譜資料，經分類驗證與人為前置處理
效果不相上下，因此研究成果可作為自動化前置處理，有其應用價值。 
 
 本人於此次會議中發表的論文為“蛋白質體資料之自動化前置處理＂ (Automated 
Preprocessing of Proteomics Data），論文發表被安排於 8 月 27 日下午之 Session S93: 
Bioinformatics 中報告。此 Session 之主持人恰為中央研究院統計科學所之副研究員謝叔
蓉老師，在此 Session 中，來自各國的專家學者即有多人之論文發表是以“基因與蛋白質
體學＂之應用與技術發展為主，本人從中不僅獲知各國有關“基因與蛋白質體學＂的精
湛研究成果，也從問題討論中受益良多。 
另外值得一提的是在Special Topic Contributed Paper Meetings 之 STCPM26: 
Bioinformatics with Emphasis on Genetic Networks，在座談討論會後，有感於討論時間之
有限，會後與其中兩位主講者David Allingham、Edi Prifti及謝叔蓉老師，共進午餐，用
餐時的討論更為深入與活潑，大家也互留聯絡方式，以便未來之學術討論與聯繫。 
本次會議其他 Session 所探討之主題如: Machine Learning，Classification and 
Clustering，Data Analysis 等也是本人深具興趣之研究相關領域，本人也因此受益匪淺。
縱觀言之，此次會議之主題安排及專家學者之論文發表，均令人印象深刻，此次 ISI 會
議的確令人有不虛此行之感。 
 
2
2. Methods  
A four-step preprocessing procedure is described here and this includes baseline subtraction, intensity 
normalization, maximum envelope peak search for peak detection, and peak alignment. 
 
2.1 Baseline Subtraction 
The baseline is an offset of the intensities in the y-value, which happens mainly at small mass values in 
a spectrum, and baseline subtraction is used to eliminate the excess baseline for each sample. The baseline 
adjustment method we used was a modification from Wong’s approach (2005). 
 
2.2 Intensity Normalization 
The purpose of intensity normalization is to identify and eliminate any systematic effects between 
mass spectra. The normalization approach we implemented is very simple. We first compute the total 
intensities for each spectrum and then find the average sum of intensities over all spectra. For each mass 
spectrum, the intensity values are normalized to multiply by a constant factor, which is equal to the average 
sum of intensities over all spectra divided by the total intensities for that spectrum. 
 
2.3 Maximum Envelope Peak Search 
As we have mentioned earlier, one of the challenges in the spectral data analysis is the noise. This 
particularly increases the difficulty for peak detection and selection. The noisy data may produce spurious 
peaks and must be treated with care. To overcome this problem, the maximum envelope peak (MEP) search 
was modified from Judd’s (Judd, 1992) for our study. The algorithm was originally used to find the direction 
of sound and was performed by a moving N-point MEP search. The size of the sliding window, N, was a 
parameter used to smooth out the spurious peaks. 
The number of peaks detected by the MEP search is related to the parameter of the window size N, a 
larger value of N reduces the number of peaks detected and minimizes the detection of spurious peaks. 
However, this also increases the possibility to fail the detection of true peaks. Thus, the sensitivity of peak 
detection depends on the window size which is important in the preprocessing process. In our 
implementation, we have designed an adaptive window size in the MEP search. The rationale to consider an 
adaptive window size is because the feature of the mass spectrometry, peaks with larger mass values are 
usually wider and peaks with smaller mass values are narrower. Therefore, a larger window size should be 
applied on large mass values, and a smaller window size would be suitable for small mass values.  Eq. (1) is 
the formula we used to determine an adaptive window size. 
N (i) = ( Nmax – Nmin ) * i / dimensions + Nmin. (1)
where N (i) is the window size for the ith point along the X-axis, Nmin and Nmax are the window sizes for the 
starting and ending points of the mass spectrum, and the variable dimensions is the total points in the X-axis 
of the spectrum. In other words, the parameter of window size is determined by a pair of values for each 
spectrometry, Nmin and Nmax. Nmin is the smallest window size in the spectrometry at the starting point and 
Nmax is the largest one at the ending point. 
 
