摘要 
 
 加馬刀的高輻射劑量及陡峭的劑量梯度之特性，已使得它成為治療顱內疾
病非常有效的方法之一，醫界多用它來治療腦瘤、動靜脈的畸形(AVMs)及功能
性失調等疾病。為了達到精確治療的目的，必須對腦瘤的邊界及所需使用的放射
劑量做精確的預測，以確保能在儘量不傷害正常組織的前提下，殺死不正常細胞
或抑制其增生。自從Gore等人發現硫酸亞鐵劑量膠的磁振造影參數R1會和輻射吸
收劑量有著正比的線性關係後，由於劑量膠在輻射劑量的吸收上和人體相似，所
以此方法目前已經被廣泛的應用在各種立體定位放射手術。這個計劃的目的，主
要希望在加馬刀立體定位放射手術中，開發有關輻射劑量量測與療程規劃技術的
改進，進一步應用於其他不同的放射性手術或放射性治療，而最後能將此輻射劑
量測定的結果實際在人體內得到驗證。 
 這個計劃分成三個主要部份，每個部份將分別在以一年為期的時程中依序
執行。在第一年中，我們將實做一些方法來解決以下有關劑量量測的問題：(1)
開發改良式的磁振造影劑量量測法。(2)研究硫酸亞鐵輻射劑量膠
(MRI-Fricke-agarose-gel)中，鐵離子的擴散現象，及對於其應用在放射手術劑量
量測的影響。(3)開發新的造影方式或材料，以解決前述因為擴散現象造成的劑
量量測誤差。這三個領域是目前所有採用影像方法來量測三維劑量分佈技術都急
待解決的重大課題。在第二年，我們將把第一年的研究經驗及成果應用於其他類
型的放射手術，著手開發一套整合高精確度劑量量測與高效率療程規劃的系統。
第三年將整合前兩年的經驗，把整套系統拿來和順磁性物質在人體內直接量測吸
收劑量所得到的結果做比較，進一步驗證磁振造影劑量量測法的完整與準確性。
相信在順利執行完本計劃之後，加馬刀放射治療的品質及效率將獲得非常大的提
升。 
本年度為第二年計畫，相關研究成果已發表於 2006 醫學物理暨生物醫學工
程國際研討會－韓國首爾。發表論文如附。 
 
關鍵詞：硫酸亞鐵劑量膠，輻射吸收劑量量測，加馬刀，鐵離子擴散 
The Development of a Three-Dimensional Fast Spin-Echo Based 
MRI-Fricke-Infused Gel Dosimetry 
N.Y. Cho*, W.Y. Chung**, W.Y. Guo*** and W.C. Chu* 
*Institute of Biomedical Engineering, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan 
**Neurological Institute, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
***Department of Radiology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Abstract 
MRI-Fricke-infused gel dosimetry is a useful tool for the conformal and 
three-dimensional absorbed radiation dose distribution measurements, but the ferric ion 
diffusion within is unfavorable. Due to ferric ion diffusion effects, we have to use fast 
MRI scanning method to accurately acquire three-dimensional absorbed radiation dose 
distribution. In this study, different parameters of the three-dimensional fast spin echo 
(3-D FSE) have been examined, combined with the image-based method to conclude 
the trends of the optimal 3-D FSE parameters for analyzing three-dimensional absorbed 
radiation dose distribution. The use of 3-D FSE parameters can greatly reduce MRI 
acquisition time and image slice thickness. The results reveal that 3-D FSE pulse 
sequences can accomplish three-dimensional imaging in 10 to 20 minutes, during 
which time ferric ion diffusion effects can be ignored, thus enabling an accurate 
absorbed radiation dose measurement. 
 
Keywords: Three-dimensional absorbed radiation dose, MRI-Fricke-infused gel, 
Ferric ion diffusion effect, Three-dimensional fast spin echo, image-based method 
  
, 
2
exp1
)
1
exp(1
)
1
exp(1()12(
12
1exp2
1
exp1 ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −⋅
⎪⎪⎭
⎪⎪⎬
⎫
⎪⎪⎩
⎪⎪⎨
⎧
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
+−+
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ ⋅−−⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −⋅⋅
⋅⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −−×=
T
TE
T
TE
N
T
TEN
T
TE
T
TRS ρ
(1) 
where ρ is the proton density, T1 is the spin-lattice relaxation time, and T2 is 
spin-spin relaxation time of substance. For T1-weighted image when TE is fixed, the 
value of exp(-TE/T2) that assumed unchanged before and after irradiation can be 
regarded as a constant [18]. In a real situation, T2 also varies with respect to the 
absorbed dose., while with the conditions of TR≫TE and T1≫TE, the value of 
exp(-TE/T1) will close to zero. Equation (1) can be condensed to 
    ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
⎟⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎜⎝
⎛ ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −⋅−−×= TRTEN
T
kS
2
12
1
1exp1                             (2a) 
where 
    ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −×=
2
exp
T
TEk ρ .                                             (2b) 
The protons of water molecules which the Fricke agarose gel fully comprises are 
rapidly diffuse and exchange position, and therefore they are considered to add various 
contributions to the total relaxation rate of the gel. Since Gore et al. suggested the 
conception above, let Rw be the relaxation rate for pure water, R+2 be the relaxation rate 
increased per unit concentration of ferrous ion, and R+3 be the relaxation rate increased 
per unit concentration of ferric ion. Then, let A be the initial ferrous ion concentration 
of the Fricke agarose gel before irradiation, and the total T1 relaxation rate for the 
Fricke agarose gel will be 2w ARR ++ . Equation (2) converts into 
    ( ) , 
2
12exp1 ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ ⋅+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −⋅−−×= +2w RARTRTENkS                       (3) 
    While a irradiation dose D change the Fe2+ concentration to Fe3+ by a fraction f, 
the change in total T1 relaxation rate of gel becomes 3   )(1 ++ +−+ RfARfAR 2w  and 
the MR image signal intensity after irradiation S ′  rewrite in Equation.(4) 
    ( ) , )(1
2
12exp1 3 ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ ⋅⋅+⋅−⋅+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −⋅−−×=′ ++ RfARfARTRTENkS 2w      (4) 
    The subtraction of pre- and post-irradiated MR image intensity, S∆ , is affected 
by the extent of dose-induced ferrous and ferric ion concentration changes. 
 
  
the mixed solution cooled to 55°C, the oxygen purging stopped to diminish bubbles 
inside eventually and while the temperature down to 50°C, the entire preparation 
procedure of Fricke-agarose gel was accomplished. The finished Fricke-agarose gel 
was poured into a plastic cylindrical container which inside the skull-shaped head 
phantom and lay aside to cool down for gelation. Around the cylinder, the remaining 
cavity of the head phantom was filled with 99.5% water content agarose. Generally the 
gel placed at a room temperature was slow to solidify and usually placed in a 
refrigerator to accelerate gelation. 
    Gamma Knife Irradiation: The gamma knife enables physicians to locate and 
irradiate small variably shaped lesions ranging from several millimeters to more than 3 
centimeters in diameter inside the brain with extremely high precision. In this study, 
irradiation was operated by Leksell gamma knife-B type (Elekta Instrument. 
Stockholm. Sweden) equipped with 201 60Co sources. The fiducial markers and 
immobility of skull-shaped phantom in gamma knife irradiation and MR scanner 
imaging was assured by using a stereotactic head frame (Leksell model G stereotactic 
frame, Elekta Instruments) which provided the same imaging plane before and after 
irradiation. The phantom could be accurately positioned and followed the standard 
treatment procedure during the entire experiment [20-22]. With a 14-millimeter 
tungsten collimator, the maximum dose was 40 Gy at the center of gel phantom 
corresponding to the point (x, y, z) = (100, 100, 100) in the gamma knife frame 
coordinate system. The sharply collimated beams of radiation with a steep dose 
gradient at the beam edge allowed us to conduct the dose mapping experiment in a 
single trial thus eliminating any potential variations from different gel preparations and 
irradiation conditions. Associated computerized treatment planning system, the 
GammaPlan (Elekta Instruments, Stockholm, Sweden) allows computerized 
superposition of isodose curves on the diagnostic images like MRI. The GammaPlan 
isodose curves were used to compare with the isodose curves obtained from the 
MRI-Fricke-agarose gel dosimetry. 
    MR imaging: All images were acquired with three-dimensional fast spin echo 
(3-D FSE) pulse sequence [23-25] by 1.5 T Signa MRI system (Signa, GE Medical 
System, Milwaukee, WI. U.S.A). Three sets of 3-D FSE parameters (Table 1~3) were 
examined as (1) TR: 320, 500, 600, 800,1500ms, Echo Train Length (ETL): 16, and 
effective TE: 16.33ms (2) TR: 600ms, ETL: 8, 16, 32, and effective TE: 16.33ms (3) 
TR: 600ms, ETL: 16, and effective TE: 8.2, 16.33ms. The others controlled as FOV: 26 
cm, matrix size: 256×256 pixels, slice thickness: 1 mm, and NEX: 2 were applied. 
Each imaging time for combination of parameters in Table 1~3 involved four slices (z 
= 98, 99, 100, 101) imaging. The images were acquired before and after the gel 
phantom irradiated by gamma-knife, and the image-based method was used to analyze 
the difference images obtained by subtracting the before irradiated images from after 
irradiated images. Figure 1 shows the steps of experiment in sequence. Figure 2 were 
3-D FSE (TR/eTE:600/16.33ms) MR images that acquired before irradiation (Fig.2a), 
immediately after irradiation (Fig.2b), and pixel by pixel subtracted image (Fig.2c) of 
the skull-shaped phantom. This subtraction method was repeated for the other images 
of different parameters. The existence of the fiducial markers in MR images after 
subtraction like Figure 2(c) served as an indicator on whether an accurate image 
alignment had been achieved. This was critical in this study as successful subtraction 
minimizes the error from any potential inhomogeneity of the Fricke-agarose gel and 
uncertainties inherent to the MRI system. The cleanly subtracted background of Figure 
  
distinct degree of definite exponential increase properties were observed for 
dose-response curves for TR: 320, 500, 600, 800 ms, but the curve of TR: 1500 ms was 
saturated and almost remained a constant while irradiated dose over 10 Gy. From 
above, the tendency of saturation seems to depend on the length of TR, so the larger TR 
causes smaller saturation dose, i.e., the saturation occurred more rapid at lower dose 
range. The appearance of saturation was not observed for TR: 320, 500, 600 ms even 
the irradiated dose up to 40 Gy. The curve of TR: 320 is extremely close to linear, so 
the linearity area is larger than others, but the initial sensitivity (∆S/Gy) and overall 
latitude of image intensity variation are much smaller than others. The initial 
sensitivity (∆S/Gy) for TR: 320, 500, 600 are 12.6, 18.4, and 19.9 Gy-1 respectively. It 
is found the corresponding dose-response curve for TR: 600ms exhibits the steepest 
initial sensitivity, larger linearity area and overall latitude with no saturation. 
Consequently, the dose-response curve of TR: 600 ms holds the relatively better 
virtues compromised between these characteristics. 
In Figure 6, there are the dose-response curves for ETL: 8, 16, and 32 acquired 
with identical method of drafting like Fig.5. Because of TR were 600 ms in these cases, 
the phenomenon of saturation didn’t appear in all dose-response curves and the 
linearity areas were similar. The initial sensitivity values of ETL: 8 (20.4 Gy-1) is 
slightly larger than ETL: 16 (19.9 Gy-1), and ETL: 32 (17.9 Gy-1), but the overall 
latitude of ETL: 16 (448) is higher than ETL: 8 (439) and ETL: 32 (436). The larger 
value of ETL means much more echoes received in one TR time, so that the time 
consuming of imaging is shortened. In order to decrease time of MR imaging for 
diffusion problem, ETL: 16 was considered a proper choice of echo train length. 
    Two dose-response curves (∆S vs. D) were acquired with effective TE: 8.2 and 
16.33 ms without saturation shown in Figure 7. The effective TE: 8.2 ms is the first full 
echo time, and 16.33 ms is the second one. The overall latitude of effective TE: 8.2 ms 
is much higher than the other one, and the initial sensitivity of effective TE: 8.2 and 
16.33 ms are 22.6 Gy-1 and 19.9 Gy-1. Previously the initial sensitivity can be further 
improved by reducing TE for spin echo [14], and then the smaller effective TE with 
apparently superior expression in both initial sensitivity and overall latitude for 3-D 
FSE was verified here. 
All the materials of MR image intensity changes (∆S) versus the absorbed 
radiation dose (D) analysis mentioned above were the central plane (z = 100) data in 
the gamma knife frame coordinate system. The 3-D FSE sequence could reduce the 
slice thickness to 1 mm and get better signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) than the spin echo 
which demanded 3 mm slice thickness to achieve. To demonstrate the integrity of 
whole target volume dosimetry for 3-D FSE (TR/effective TE: 600/8.2 ms, ETL: 16, 
NEX: 2, and slice thickness: 1 mm), the other planes of dose-response analysis were 
performed in Figure 8. The dose-response curves for different axial slices (plane z = 98, 
99, 100, 101) show that four different curves are adjoining to each other indicating high 
consistency can be upheld for dose mapping on each plane. Furthermore, the 
dose-response curves for spin echo (TR/TE: 500/11 ms, NEX: 2, and slice thickness: 3 
mm) of different axial slices (plane z = 97, 100, 103) in Figure 9. The three separated 
curves of spin echo expressed worse capability in dose mapping for different planes 
than 3-D FSE. To make a comparison for 3-D FSE and spin echo (SE), the 
dose-response curves of both were illustrated together in Figure 10. 
The correlation coefficient (R2) of each dose-response curve calculated from 
regression coefficients ( k′ , a, b) in Eq.(6). The values of correlation coefficients (R2) 
for different z are close to 1 that signifies the each regression curve quite corresponding 
with the data points of each plane. The correlation coefficients of 3-D FSE and spin 
  
Conclusions  
In radiotherapy, accurate dose measurement is a very important part, and the 
accuracy of MRI-Fricke-infused gel dosimetry was upgraded in this study. The 
accuracy of dosimetry was improved with great precision of 1 mm by 
three-dimensional fast spin echo volume imaging. Results of our research confirm that 
the optimal parameters of three-dimensional fast spin echo could shorten the time for 
volume imaging to decrease ferric ion diffusion effects effectively and enable a more 
accurate absorbed radiation dose measurement than spin echo. The optimal 3D-FSE 
parameters were concluded that TR should be around 600 ms, ETL was 16, effective 
TE would be the first full echo time, and NEX was 2. To perform the parameters 
proposed above, the MRI-Fricke-infused gel dosimetry should be effectively applied 
in three-dimensional absorbed dose for different radiation sources [26-28], such as 
stereotactic radiosurgery, IMRT, LINAC, brachytherapy, etc.  
 
References 
[1] H. Fricke and S. Morse, “The Chemical Action of Roentgen Rays on 
Dilute Ferrosulphate Solutions as a Measure of Dose,” Am. J. Roent. Rad. Ther., 
18, 430-432, 1927. 
[2] J. C. Gore, Y. S. Kang, and R. J. Schulz, “Measurement of Radiation Dose 
Distribution by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance（NMR）Imaging,” Phys. Med. Biol., 
29, 1189-1197, 1984. 
[3] A. Appleby, E. A. Christman, and A. Leghrouz, “Imaging of Spatial Radiation 
Dose Distribution in Agarose Gels Using Magnetic Resonance,” Med. Phys., 14, 
382-384, 1987. 
[4] L. E. Olsson, S. Peterson, L. Ahlgern and S. Mattsson, “Ferrous Sulfate Gels for 
Determination of Absorbed Dose Distributions Using MRI Technique: Basic 
Studies,” Phys. Med. Biol., 34, 43-52, 1989. 
[5] J. R. Schultz, A. F. deGuzman, D. B. Nguyen and J. C. Gore, ”Dose-response 
Curves for Fricke-infused Agarose Gels as Obtained by Nuclear Magnetic 
Resonance,” Phys. Med. Biol., 35, 1611-1622, 1990. 
[6] T. Kron, P. Metcalfe, and J. M. Pope, “Investigation of the tissue equivalence of 
gels used for NMR dosimetry. Phys. Med. Biol., 38, 139-150, 1993. 
[7] L. E. Olsson, A. Fransson, A. Ericsson and S. Mattsson, “MR Imaging of 
Absorbed Dose Distributions for Radiotherapy Using Ferrous Sulfate Gels,” Phys. 
Med. Biol., 35, 1623-1631, 1990. 
[8] L. E. Olsson, S Petersson, B. A. Westrin, A. Fransson and B. Nordell, “Diffusion 
of Ferric Ions in Agarose Dosimeter Gels,” Phys. Med. Biol., 37, 2243-2252, 
1992. 
[9] D. R. Olsen and J. Hellesnes, “Absorbed Dose Distribution Measurements in 
Brachythherapy Using Ferrous Sulfate Gel and Magnetic Resonance Imaging,” 
Brit. J. Radiol., 67, 1121-1126, 1994. 
[10] M. B. Podgorask and L. J. Schreiner, “Practical Aspects of the NMR-Fricke 
Dosimeter Technique,” Med. Phys., 17, 534, 1990. 
[11] M. B. Podgorask and L. J. Schreiner, ”Nuclear Magnetic Relaxation 
Characterization of Irradiation Fricke Solution, ” Med. Phys., 19, 87-95, 1992. 
[12] R. J. Schulz, M. J. Maryanski, G. S. Ibbott and J. E. Bond, “Assessment of the 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
 
2006 年 9 月 15 日 
 
報   告   人 
姓        名 朱唯勤 
服務機構 
及 職 稱 
國立陽明大學 
醫學工程研究所 
會  議  時間 
        地點 
自 95 年 8 月 27 日 
至 95 年 9 月 1日 
本會核定 
補助文號 NSC 95-2221-E-010-010 
會 議 名 稱 (中文) 2006 醫學物理暨生物醫學工程國際研討會 
(英文) World Congress on Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering 2006 
發表論文題目 (中文) 研發以三維快速自旋回音為基礎之磁振劑量膠輻射劑量量測技術 
(英文) The development of a three-dimensional fast spin-echo based 
MRI-Fricke-infused gel dosimetry 
 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一､參加會議經過 
二､與會心得 
三､考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略） 
四､建議 
五､攜回資料名稱及內容 
六､其他 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
              報告人：朱唯勤 
 
參加會議經過、與會心得 
The World Congress on Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering 2006 (WC2006) was held 
in August 27 to September 1, 2006, in COEX Seoul, Korea. WC 2006 provides a strong and diverse 
scientific content covering topics related with medical physics and biomedical engineering.  An 
estimate of a couple of thousands researchers working in both medical physics and biomedical 
engineering fields around the world participated in this worldwide six-day event. Approximately 2500 
papers were presented in the Congress in parallel sessions of 250 oral and poster presentations 
covering 25 tracks. In addition to the proffered papers, there were another 10 plenary speeches, more 
than 100 invited speakers, 18 symposiums, four workshops, 15 short courses, and 15 continuing 
courses sponsored by AAPM during the Congress.   
The theme of the Congress is “imaging the Future Medicine,” focusing on the emerging 
challenges and opportunities ahead for medical physics and biomedical engineering and the potential 
for us to contribute toward an improved healthy wellbeing. Topics of interest in this Congress include 
Physiological System Modeling, Control, and Physiome; Bioinformatics and Computational Biology; 
Engineering for Genomics and Proteomics; Micro and Nanotechnologies in Medicine and Biology; 
Information Technology in Healthcare; Biosensors and Instrumentation; Biosignal Processing and 
Analysis; Biomedical Optics; Diagnostic Imaging Physics and Systems; Nuclear Medicine Physics 
and Systems; Radiation Oncology Physics and Systems; Dosimetry and Radiation Protection; Particle 
Therapy Physics and Systems; Image Processing, Analysis and Visualization; Bioelectricity and 
Biomagnetism; Biomechanics and Rehabilitation Engineering; Medical Robotics and Computer 
Assisted Surgery; Artificial Organs; Drug Delivery and Therapeutic Systems; Biomaterials and Tissue 
Engineering; Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Systems; Neural Systems and Engineering; Physics and 
Engineering in Oriental Medicine; Clinical Engineering; Education, Training and Professional 
Development.  Papers presented represent the vibrant research currently being conducted in these 
multidiscipline fields. We have one oral and three poster presentations in this Congress. The oral 
dual-modality imaging devices are explored. Potential applications of quantitative molecular imaging 
are also addressed especially its use prior to therapy for dose distribution modelling and 
patient-specific 3D dosimetry in treatment planning towards the concept of image-guided radiation 
therapy. 
Jang Jisun et. al. from the CyberKnife Center, Kangnam St.Mary’s Hospital, The Catholic 
University of Korea, presented “Evaluation of the Accuracy of the CyberKnife.”  The use of 
stereotactic radiosurgical systems to treat intracranial and extracranial tumors and other lesions 
requires a high degree of accuracy in target identification and localization. CyberKnife can deliver, 
with a high degree of precision, a single or several fractions of radiation dose to a well-defined small 
intracranial or extracranial target. The accuracy of the output factor directly affects the accuracy of 
dose delivery of a CyberKnife system. The authors evaluated the CyberKnife system accuracy and 
also estimated an output factor for CyberKnife using the several detectors. Accuracy of target 
localization was measured using anthropomorphic head phantom containing a spherical target, 
fiducial markers, and two pieces of films. The accuracy measured is the displacement of the dose 
contours from the treatment plan to that measured in the exposed phantom. All measurements of the 
output factors for collimators were performed by six different detectors: diode detector, X-Omat V 
film, Gafchromic EBT film, 0.015, 0.125 and 0.6 cc ionization chamber. Each collimator normalized 
with respect to the output factor of the largest collimator. They performed the E2E test and the 
general film dosimetry for estimation target localization in CyberKnife. The targeting error of the 
skull tracking mode and fiducial tracking mode were 0.956 mm and 0.923 mm. The accuracy of total 
system is less than the 1 mm. For larger collimators, the output factors from six detectors showed a 
good agreement. For the collimators less than 15 mm, there were substantial differences in the output 
factors among different detectors. That is, the value of output factor for the 5 mm collimator of a 
diode and Gafchromic film was each 0.656 and 0.777. The Gafchromic EBT film was considered 
more accurate than the others detectors.   
Myonggeun Yoon et. al., from the Research Institute and Hospital, National Cancer Center, 
Goyang, Korea, reported “A new index of the dose homogeneity for treatment planning.”  The goal 
of their study was to develop new indices, which effectively evaluate dose homogeneity of intensity 
modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) treatment plans with dose – volume histogram (DVH). The newly 
