 2
發展超音波逆散射為基礎的統計參數以應用於血液及軟組織之特性識別(3/3) 
 
摘要 
本三年期計畫主要目的是欲發展及驗證超音波逆散射為基礎的統計參數，及其應用於血
液及軟組織之特性鑑別。第三年之計畫首先欲建製一部高頻超音波系統，可以應用於臨床
軟組織的測量。其次，進一步使用超音波逆散射為基礎的統計訊號與影像參數，以鑑別流
動血液及老鼠和人體組織。 
超音波逆散射訊號的統計參數已被用來分析流動血液的血球聚集和血液凝固等特性，但
是關於層流所衍生的黑洞現象，則尚未被探討。為進一步探討此現象，本年度計畫設計流
速介於 1.2 至 12.2 cm/s 的層流，使用血容比介於 20 至 50％的猪血，並以 10MHz 的聚焦型
超音波進行測量。結果顯示黑洞現象明顯出現於 50％的低流速血液，而高流速或 20％血液
則較不易產生。流動血液的超音波逆散射訊號的機率密度函數（PDF），呈現 pre-rayleigh
的統計模型，其平均 Nakagami 參數小於 1；而 scaling 參數和 Nakagami 參數隨血流速度上
生而分別降低與升高。同時，較大的 scaling 參數與較低的 Nakagami 參數分別對應到 50％
和 20％的血液。上述結果主要是由於血液聚集和剪應率隨空間分佈的影響，Nakagami 參數
值隨黑洞現象的產生而降低。 
透過本研究計畫之執行，使統計模型參數的敏感度及應用於偵測靜、動態血液的特性得
以被驗證。Nakagami 參數經發現可用來鑑別超音波逆散射包封訊號，它的值主要對應於散
射子的濃度、大小、和其他彈性性質。所以未來 Nakagami 參數具被臨床應用於各樣器官診
斷的潛力。 
 
關鍵詞:超音波逆散射、血液凝固、黑洞現象、Nakagami統計參數 
 
 
Development of the ultrasonic backscattering-based statistical parameters for the 
characterization of blood and soft tissues (3/3) 
 
 
Abstract 
The objective of this three-year project is to develop and verify ultrasound backscattering 
based statistical parameters for characterizing the blood and soft tissues. The third year of this 
project is firstly aiming to build up a high frequency ultrasound system capable of clinical 
applications on soft tissue measurement. Secondly, further testing was made to apply parametric 
signal and image to characterize flowing blood and tissues of rats and human. 
The statistical distributions of ultrasonic backscattered signals have been analyzed to 
characterize hemodynamic properties of flowing blood corresponding to red cell aggregation and 
blood coagulation. Yet very little is known about the association of spatial variation of “black 
hole” (BH) phenomenon in the laminar flow with signal statistics of the flowing blood. To further 
explore this issue, measurements were performed from the porcine blood (with hematocrits of 20 
and 50%) circulating in a mock flow loop under various steady laminar flows at mean flow 
velocities ranged from 1.5 to 12.2 cm/s using a 10 MHz focused ultrasonic transducer. Results 
showed that the BH phenomenon was apparent for the 50% blood flowing at a low velocity. The 
BH phenomenon tended to be decreased with the increase of flow velocity and that it was hardly 
observed from the 20% blood. The probability density function (PDF) of signals backscattered 
 4
前言（INTRODUCTION） 
 
Blood is an essential tissue and is mainly comprised of red blood cells (RBCs), leukocytes, 
platelets, and plasma. The main function of blood is to transport nutrients, oxygen, and 
constitutional elements to tissues and to remove metabolic products such as carbon dioxide and 
lactic acid [1] produced from those tissues. Depending on flow conditions, several individual 
RBCs could aggregate together to form a rouleau. The red blood cell (RBC) aggregation is a 
reversible physiological process that may increase viscosity and resistance of the flowing blood, 
form sludge blood in vessels, and further promote blood coagulation [1]. Recently, properties of 
RBC aggregation associated several factors with blood flows have been studied by ultrasound 
techniques due to their real-time and noninvasive capabilities [2-5]. The variation of scatterer size 
in the flowing blood associated with the formation of RBC aggregation may be sensitively 
detected by ultrasonic backscattering due to that it is scatterer size dependent. Consequently, 
several previous studies have applied ultrasonic backscattering to correlate that the formation of 
RBC aggregation is affected by the shear rate, hematocrit, and fibrinogen concentration in the 
flowing blood [6-7]. The “black hole” (BH) phenomenon, a hypoechoic hole at the center stream 
of the flow conduit surrounded by hyperechoic zone discerned by the cross sectional B-mode 
images, is presumably resultant from the smaller aggregates at the center stream due to very low 
shear rate and a maximum aggregation at a certain shear rate [8]. 
The BH was first observed by Yuan and Shung [9] under steady flow and recently under 
pulsatile flow [10]. Many studies indicated that the BH phenomenon is affected by flow velocity, 
pulsatile condition, entrance length, and hematocrit of blood [10]. Shehada et al. [8] had observed 
the formation of BH phenomenon from the mean flow velocities ranging from 1.3 to 5.3 cm/s at a 
large diameter rigid tube of 2.54 cm. In addition, a 7 MHz B-mode system was used to image the 
porcine whole blood at a 28% hematocrit for different entrance lengths circulated in a large 
diameter rigid tube under steady flow conditions, in which results demonstrated that a smaller 
zone of BH in the center stream of the tube appeared as the inlet length of tube was increased [11]. 
Qin et al. found that the BH was more pronounced corresponding to higher kinetics of RBC 
aggregation using a 10 MHz Doppler system to measure blood circulated in a 1.27 cm diameter 
tube under steady flow conditions [12]. Furthermore, the BH phenomenon was investigated with 
porcine whole blood of different hematocrits under pulsatile flow conditions circulated in a rigid 
tube of 0.95 cm diameter measured by ultrasonic scanner of a 7.5 MHz linear array [13]. The 
results indicated that the formation of BH occurred at hematocrits of blood over 23% and that 
becomes prominent as that the hematocrit is increased. All of these mentioned investigations 
showed that the formation of BH phenomenon is related to RBC aggregation in the flowing 
whole blood. 
Our pervious study [14] have applied the Nakagami statistical model to investigate the 
relationship between blood properties and backscattering signals statistical behavior of the 
flowing blood. Ultrasonic signals backscattered from both porcine whole blood and RBC 
suspensions with hematocrits ranging from 20 to 50% circulated in a flow tube under a steady 
laminar flow at different flow velocities ranging from 10 to 60 cm/s were measured. With the 
 6
II. Experimental arrangements 
The mock flow phantom, shown in Figure 1, was arranged and calibrated. The flow model 
comprised a peristaltic pump (Model 7518-00, Masterflex, Cole-Parmer, IL, USA), two 
reservoirs, and a magnetic stirrer (Cole-Parmer, IL, USA). The blood sample in the conduit was 
circulated for approximately 20 min before that each data acquisition of an experiment was 
carried out to eliminate those possible air bubbles and to allow thermal equilibrium with the 
ambient temperature of 25±1oC. A portion of flow tube was immersed in degassed water 
contained in a plexiglass tank to facilitate the transmission and reception of ultrasound waves. 
The polyurethane flow tube is with an inner diameter of 0.954 cm and thickness of 0.159 cm. 
Prior to each experiment was performed, the flow was calibrated by timing certain flow volumes 
with respect to the settings on the pump. The mean flow velocities, including 1.5, 3.8, and 12.2 
cm/s, were adjusted for this study. The inlet length of the tube between the top reservoir and the 
site of ultrasonic transducer was sufficient (100 cm) to have a fully developed laminar flow in 
this study [15]. The Reynolds number (Re) of the flow at the site of inlet length (Li) needs to 
maintain to be less than 2000 [15] to allow the laminar flow in the circulation. The Reynolds 
number may be estimated from those parameters as the mean flow velocity (Vm), inner radius (Ri) 
of conduit, and dynamic viscosity (μ) and density (ρ) of the fluid indicated in the following 
equation [15],  
                              μ
ρim
e
R2VR = ,                           (1) 
and that of as follows for the inlet length. 
                             μ
ρ 2im
i
RV0.26L = .                         (2) 
In accordance with the whole blood of 50% hematocrit, density of 1.05 g cm–3, and dynamic 
viscosity ranging from 0.08 to 0.05 poise [15] circulated at a mean flow velocity of 12.2 cm/s, the 
corresponding Reynolds number and inlet length were estimated to be approximately 230 and 15 
cm, respectively. Therefore, the arrangement of 100 cm inlet length for the subsequent 
experiments would allow blood flow to be steady and laminar in the measuring site. 
 
III. Signal data acquisition and parameter analysis 
A wideband 10 MHz focused transducer (A311R, Panametrics, Waltham, Massachusetts, 
USA) was applied in the measurements. A pulser/receiver (5072PR, Panametrics, Waltham, 
Massachusetts, USA) was used to drive the transducer for transmitting and receiving ultrasound 
signals at a pulse repetition frequency (PRF) of 100 Hz. The received signals backscattered from 
blood were respectively 40 dB amplified and filtered by a built-in amplifier and bandpass filter in 
the pulser/receiver. The clock signals synchronized with PRF were used to trigger the data 
acquisition of backscattered echoes at a maximum sampling frequency of 100 MHz by a 14-bit 
analog-to-digital converter (PCI-5122, National Instruments, Austin, Texas, USA) housed in a 
personal computer. For all measurements, the sample volume of each collected signal was 
arranged to be located near the focal zone of the transducer, which was positioned 
perpendicularly to the flow direction. A total of 1000 A-lines of radio frequency (RF) 
 8
animal subjects were used for this study. 
The ultrasonic signals backscattered from tissues would result various distributions of PDF, 
including pre-Rayleigh, Rayleigh, and post-Rayleigh distributions, depending on scatterer 
concentrations in the sample volume. It thus is feasible to differentiate properties of blood by 
modeling the PDFs of envelopes of signals backscattered from blood. The PDFs of the Nakagami 
distribution (f) calculated from the envelope (R) of backscattered signals is given by [16-17]: 
),(
)(
2)(
)(12 2
RUe
m
RmRf
Rm
m
mm
Ω−
−
ΩΓ=                                    (3) 
where Γ(．) and U(．) are the gamma function and unit step function, respectively. Both the 
Nakagami parameter (m) and scaling parameter (Ω) associated with the Nakagami distribution 
can be calculated as follows: 
,
)]([
)]([
222
22
RERE
REm −=                                               (4) 
and 
),( 2RE=Ω                                                        (5) 
in which E(．) is the statistical mean. The scaling parameter refers to the average power of 
the backscattered envelope. In accordance with that the resolution cell of the ultrasonic transducer 
contains a large number of randomly distributed scatterers, the envelope statistics of the 
ultrasonic backscattered signals tends to be Rayleigh distributed corresponding the Nakagami 
parameter m to 1. If the resolution cell contains the scatterers that have randomly varying 
scattering cross sections with a comparatively high degree of variance, the backscattered 
envelope tends to be pre-Rayleigh distributed and that corresponds m less than 1. Another 
condition for that the periodically located scatterers in addition to the randomly distributed 
scatterers, the envelope statistics tend to be post-Rayleigh distributed with m > 1. 
 
 
 
結果（Results） 
 
I. High frequency ultrasound image system 
The developed high frequency ultrasound system includes a x-y-z motors, pulser/receiver, 
high sampling frequency (up to 2 GHz) A/D converter, and a PC. High frequency system can be 
applied to small animal experiments (Figure 3) and the images acquired by this system were 
shown as Figure 4. The ultrasonic measurement system consisted of a 48 MHz ultrasonic 
transducer (NIH Ultrasonic Transducer Resource Center, USC), a high-voltage pulser/receiver 
(Model 5900PR, Panametrics, USA), a three dimensional motor stage, a low-noise amplifier 
(Model LN1000A, Amplifier Research, PA, USA), a bandpass filter, and a analog-to-digital 
converter (National Instruments, TX, USA). The three dimensional motor stage was constructed 
of one piezo-ceramic motor (Nanomotion Ltd., Israel) and two servo motor (Cool Muscle, Japan). 
Both the tibia of mice and high frequency ultrasonic transducer were immersed in a small water 
tank filled with degassed, deionized water.  
 10
 
II. Soft tissues validations 
Figure 4 shows a set of B-mode images of a rat skin (top) and the human soft tissue (middle), 
and that of the Nakagami-based image from the human soft tissue (bottom). An anechoic region 
of the B-mode image in human soft tissue indicated the location of a vessel in which the 
associated parametric image did clearly enhance not only its location, but also the distribution of 
flowing blow that tended to have a higher concentration in the center stream.  
II. Flowing blood Experiments: 
Figure 5 is a set of typical M-mode images obtained from the flowing whole blood with a 
hematocrit of 20% associated with different flow velocities ranging from 1.5 to 12.2 cm/s. Each 
image consists of 1000 A-line signals, which corresponds to 10 s of the recorded time. The 
grayscale values in Figure 5 represent the amplitude of the RF signal power, in which 
echogenicity tended to be higher in the region near the central tube for different flow velocities. 
Figure 6 is another set of typical M-mode images corresponding to flowing whole blood of a 50% 
hematocrit flowing at different velocities ranging from 1.5 to 12.2 cm/s. A tiny hypoechoic 
region (or black hole) in the center stream of the flow tube surrounded by bright rings was 
observed associated with flow velocities of 1.5 and 3.8 cm/s shown in Fig. 6 (a) and (b), 
respectively. The BH phenomenon was diminished or disappeared as that the blood flow velocity 
was further increased, shown in Fig. 6 (c), or that the hematocrits of blood are not sufficient, 
shown in Figure 5. Figures 7 and 8 demonstrate respectively the corresponding amplitudes of the 
backscattered signal envelopes to Figures 5 and 6 for flowing whole blood at different flow 
velocities and hematocrits as a function of radial position in the tube, in which the spatial 
variation of ultrasonic backscattering from flowing blood could be better delineated. It can be 
discerned that even for a hematocrit of 20%, the BH phenomenon may be resulted from the 
corresponding lower flow velocity at 1.5 cm/s, as shown in Figure 7. The most profound degree 
of BH phenomenon is associated with blood of the higher hematocrit at 50% and slower flow 
velocity, as shown in Figure 8. In accordance with the decrease of blood hematocrit or the 
increase of flow velocity, the BH phenomenon is diminishing.  
Figure 9 summarizes the scaling parameter as a function of flow velocity for flowing blood of 
different hematocrits. Note that the scaling parameter corresponds to the average power of 
ultrasonic backscattered signal envelopes, as shown in equation (5). The scaling parameter 
corresponding to the blood of 50% hematocrit tended to decrease from approximately 1100 to 
870 as the flow velocity increased from 1.5 to 12.2 cm/s, in which that of the blood of 20% 
decreased from 940 to 805. The scaling parameter is consistently larger for the blood of higher 
hematocrit than that of lower hematocrit under the same flow velocity. The associated result of 
Nakagami parameter as a function of flow velocity is in Figure 10 in which the mean Nakagami 
parameter increased from approximately 0.26 to 0.46 as the flow velocity increased from 1.5 to 
12.2 cm/s at a hematocrit of 50 %. Figures 11 and 12 show respectively the typical PDFs of 
backscattered signal envelopes obtained from the blood of 20% and 50% hematocrits at different 
velocities. All of these PDFs for flowing whole blood showed approximately a pre-Rayleigh 
distribution corresponding to the Nakagami parameter being less than 1. As the flow velocity was 
 12
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 6, Typical M-mode images associated with whole blood of a 50% hematocrit under 
different flow velocities: 1.5 cm/s (a), 3.8 cm/s (b), and 12.2 cm/s (c). The BH phenomenon was 
observed at lower velocities. 
 
 
 14
 
Figure 9, Scaling parameter of blood of different hematocrits as a function of flow velocity. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10, Nakagami parameter of blood of different hematocrits as a function of flow 
velocity. 
 
 
 
 
 16
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
Figure 12, A typical PDF of backscattered signal envelopes for flowing whole blood 
(hematocrit=50%) at mean flow velocities of 1.5 cm/s (a), 3.8 cm/s (b), and 12.2 cm/s (c). 
 
 
 
 
 18
tube (diameter of 0.954 cm). The BH in the center stream of the flow tube was observed for blood 
flowed at velocities of 1.5 and 3.8 cm/s, as shown in Figs. 4 (a) and (b). As the flow velocity was 
further increased, the BH phenomenon was diminished, shown in Fig. 6(c). This result well 
agrees with pervious studies [8] for that the BH phenomenon appeared at a very low velocity. For 
those bloods of 20% hematocrit, the BH phenomenon was not clearly discerned in Fig. 5. This 
result is in agreement with those findings from Cao et al. [13] that the BH appeared at 
hematocrits over 23% and became prominent as hematocrit was further increased. Moreover, the 
formation of BH can be observed from blood of 20% hematocrit obtained from the amplitude of 
the backscattered signal envelope associated with a low flow velocity of 1.5 cm/s as a function of 
spatial position across the flow tube, as shown in Fig. 7. 
The scaling parameter for flowing whole blood corresponding to the average power of the 
backscattered signal envelope tended to decrease with the increase of flow velocity, shown in Fig. 
9, lending further credence to the theory that a lower flow velocity may cause more RBC 
aggregation in the flowing whole blood despite for the resultant BH at a lower flow velocity of 
50% hematocrit. According to results in our pervious study [14], the Nakagami parameter 
increased from 0.45 to 0.78 as the flow velocity increased from 10 to 60 cm/s. The Nakagami 
parameter of a blood of 20% hematocrit in present study increased from approximately 0.33 to 
0.47 in accordance with the increase of flow velocity from 1.5 to 12.2 cm/s, that led these PDFs 
of signal envelopes to pre-Rayleigh distribution, as shown in Fig. 11. These results imply a 
correlation could exist between Nakagami parameter and flow velocity. The Nakagami parameter 
seems to increase with the flow velocity due to the effect of RBC aggregation in flowing whole 
blood that varies the size of scatterers. On the other hand, the PDFs of signal envelopes in the 
flowing whole blood (50% hematocrit) still exhibited pre-Rayleigh distribution despite the 
occurrence of BH phenomenon for blood of lower flow velocities from 1.5 and 3.8 cm/s, as 
shown in Fig. 12. These results, in Figures 9 and 10, empirically imply that the BH phenomenon 
as a function of flow velocity can be sensitively differentiated with scaling parameter than that of 
Nakagami parameter. 
In summary, the effects of BH phenomenon in the flowing blood on the backscattering 
signal statistical behavior using the Nakagami statistical model were investigated. The BH 
phenomenon was observed obviously associated with the blood of higher hematocrit and that 
flows at a lower velocity. The experimental results indicated that the Nakagami parameter was 
smaller than 1 for flowing whole blood due to ultrasonic backscattering of flowing whole blood is 
spatial variation in the flow tube, resulting in the PDF of the signal envelope being close to 
pre-Rayleigh distribution. The tendency of decreasing degree of BH phenomenon with respect to 
the increase of flow velocity is consistent with results obtained from both scaling and Nakagami 
parameters. 
 
 
 
 
 
