 
 
Report 
 Of 
 “Study of the heterostructure III-N pin photo diode with high 
internal gain” 
 
 
97/08/01 ～ 98/07/31 
NSC 97 - 2221 - E - 390 - 009 - 
 
 
 
 
Wen-How Lan 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
National University of Kaohsiung  
 
 
Abstract 
 
 The GaN/AlN heterostructure pin diode with low temperature AlN were 
proposed and fabricated in this project. Although the barrier high increase with the 
low temperature AlN inserted in the GaN pin structure, both high internal gain and 
low dark current behavior can be characterized in the heterosture pin diode. With 
responsivity analysis with illuminated with various photon wavelength, high UV/VIS 
rejection ratio behavior can be found also. The low temperature AlN layer shows an 
effective method to increase the device internal gain and decrease the dark current in 
the pin photodiode. 
 
 
 
 
Key words 
 AlN, gain, dark current, photodiode. 
 
 
 
 
subsequently evaporated onto the p-type GaN surface to serve as the p-electrode. On 
the other hand, Cr-Pt-Au contact was deposited onto the exposed n-type GaN layer to 
serve as the n-electrode. The wafers were then lapped down to 100 μm. We then used 
scriber and breaker to fabricate the 325 × 325 μm2 chips. After these procedures, we 
used an HP-4156 semiconductor parameter analyzer to measure current-voltage (I-V) 
characteristics of the fabricated photodetectors. Spectral responsivity measurements 
were also performed by a JOBIN-YVON SPEX 1000M System with a xenon arc 
lamp light source. All the optical systems were calibrated using a UV-enhanced 
silicon photodiode. 
Fig. 1 shows the dark I-V characteristics of the two GaN p-i-n photodetectors. It can 
be seen that the dark leakage current is significantly low for the photodetector with 
LT-AlN interlayer. Under reverse bias, it was found that the dark current of the 
photodetector with LT-AlN interlayer was 2~3 × 10-11 A. In contrast, the dark current 
of the conventional photodetector was much larger and increased rapidly with 
increasing reverse voltage. The measured results of these samples are repeatable. We 
measured at least 10 samples with LT-AlN interlayer and 10 samples without LT-AlN 
interlayer and always achieved the same results. It should be noted that the dark 
current of the photodetector with LT-AlN interlayer was over two orders of magnitude 
lower than that of the conventional photodetector at the reverse bias of 40 V. The 
origin of high dark current in conventional photodetector is attributed to the leakage 
current paths formation from the threading dislocations and related defects. It has 
been reported that threading dislocations can be suppressed from extending to the 
following high-temperature epitaxial layers (top p-GaN and upper i-GaN layers) by 
inserting a LT-interlayer [7-8]. Amano et al. showed that both LT-AlN and LT-GaN 
interlayers can reduce the dislocation density of GaN layers by about one order of 
magnitude [8]. However, the crystalline quality of the bottom n-GaN and i-GaN 
detectors, which corresponds to the GaN absorption bandgap. The peak responsivity 
of the conventional photodetector was observed in a value of around 0.1 A/W from 0 
to 40 V reverse biases. Under high reverse bias (>20 V), it was found that the 
responsivity in the long wavelength region (i.e., λ > 400 nm) increased significantly, 
as shown in fig. 2(a). We believe this phenomenon should be attributed to the fact that 
the dark current of the conventional photodetector increased markedly with reverse 
bias, as shown in fig. 1. In contrast, no such large responsivity in the long wavelength 
region was observed in the photodetector with LT-AlN interlayer, as shown in fig. 
2(b). This can be attributed to that the defect-generated currents were blocked at 
AlN/GaN heterointerface by using a LT-AlN interlayer. On the other hand, the small 
peak responsivity of the detector with LT-AlN interlayer under low reverse bias (<10 
V) can be predicated from the small photocurrent observed at the same bias range, as 
shown in the inset of fig. 1. From fig. 2(b), it was found that the peak responsivity of 
the photodetector with LT-AlN interlayer can reach to 0.1 A/W at the reverse bias 
larger than 10 V. Here, we define UV-to-visible rejection ratio as the responsivity 
measured at 360 nm divided by the responsivity measured at 450 nm. Fig. 3 shows the 
rejection ratios of both detectors under different reverse biases. It was found that the 
rejection ratio of the conventional photodetector reduces significantly when the 
reverse biases exceed 15 V. This observed behavior is consistent with the dark I-V 
characteristics of the conventional photodetector, as shown in fig.1. In contrast, 
although the rejection ratio of the photodetector with LT-AlN interlayer is smaller 
than that of the conventional photodetector under low reverse bias range, it was found 
that the rejection ratio of the photodetector with LT-AlN interlayer only reduces 
slightly under high reverse biases. The rejection ratios of detectors with and without 
LT-AlN interlayer at the reverse bias of 40 V are 735 and 40, respectively. This larger 
UV-to-visible rejection ratio observed from the photodetector with LT-AlN interlayer 
REFERENCES 
 
[1]  J. C. Lin, Y. K. Su, S. J. Chang, W. H. Lan, K. C. Huang, C. Y. Huang, W. R. 
Chen, Y. C. Cheng, W. J. Lin, and W. C. Lai, “High Responsivity of GaN p-i-n 
Photodiode by Using Low-Temperature Interlayer,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 91, 
pp. 173502, 2007. 
[2]  J. C. Carrano, D. J. H. Lambert, C. J. Eiting, C. J. Collins, T. Li, S. Wang, B. 
Yang, A. L. Beck, R. D. Dupuis, and J. C. Campbell, “GaN avalanche 
photodiodes,” Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 76, pp. 924-926, 2000. 
[3]  S. Verghese, K. A. McIntosh, R. J. Molnar, L. J. Mahoney, R. L. Aggarwal, M. 
W. Geis, K. M. Molvar, E. K. Duerr, and I. Melngailis, “GaN Avalanche 
Photodiodes Operating in Linear-Gain Mode and Geiger Mode,” IEEE Trans. 
Electron Devices, vol. 48, no. 3, pp. 502–511, Mar. 2001. 
[4]  M. Iwaya, T. Takeuchi, S. Yamaguchi, C. Wetzel, H. Amano, and I. Akasaki, 
“Reduction of Etch Pit Density in Organometallic Vapor Phase Epitaxy-Grown 
GaN on Sapphire by Insertion of a Low-Temperature-Deposited Buffer Layer 
between High-Temperature-Grown GaN,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 37, pp. 
L316-L318, 1998. 
[5]  H. Amano, M. Iwaya, T. Kashima, M. Katsuragawa, I. Akasaki, J. Han, S. 
Hearne, J. A. Floro, E. Chason, and J. Figiel, “Stress and Defect Control in GaN 
using Low Temperature Interlayers,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 37, pp. 
L1540-L1542, 1998. 
[6]  J. F. Wang, D. Z. Yao, J. Chen, J. J. Zhu, D. G. Zhao, D. S. Jiang, H. Yang, and J. 
W. Liang, “Strain evolution in GaN layers grown on high-temperature AlN 
interlayers,” Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 89, pp. 152105, 2006. 
[7]  M. Iwaya, T. Takeuchi, S. Yamaguchi, C. Wetzel, H. Amano, and I. Akasaki, 
“Reduction of Etch Pit Density in Organometallic Vapor Phase Epitaxy-Grown 
GaN on Sapphire by Insertion of a Low-Temperature-Deposited Buffer Layer 
between High-Temperature-Grown GaN,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 37, pp. 
L316-L318, 1998. 
[8]  H. Amano, M. Iwaya, T. Kashima, M. Katsuragawa, I. Akasaki, J. Han, S. 
Hearne, J. A. Floro, E. Chason, and J. Figiel, “Stress and Defect Control in GaN 
using Low Temperature Interlayers,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 37, pp. 
L1540-L1542, 1998. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Room temperature dark current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of the fabricated 
p-i-n photodetectors with and without LT-AlN interlayer. The inset shows the I-V 
characteristics of both detectors under 360 nm light illumination. 
