 II
 
Abstract 
 
1.  中文摘要 
過去數十年來幾何規劃問題(Generalized Geometric Problems, GGP)一直是工業工程中
廣泛出現的非線性問題。傳統上的 Exponential-Based method會導致太多 0-1變數以致計算
時間甚長且變數不可為零值或負數。而使用凸形化策略(Convexification Strategies)將原幾何
規劃問題(GGP)轉換成凸問題(Convex Program)以求得全域最佳近似解是一種較有效率且重
要的方法。但目前凸形化策略仍需許多 0-1變數來作 Piecewise Linearization, 而耗費不少計
算時間。本研究用意在深入探討全域最佳化理論與方法,研發更高效率之凸形化策略, 使在
較少資源下卻任可得到較精確的全域最佳近似解, 以大幅縮短獲得全域最佳解的時間, 並
以之應用於工程上的設計問題等。 
關鍵詞: 幾何規劃問題, 凸形化策略, 全域最佳解 
 
2.  Abstract 
Generalized Geometric Problems (GGP) is nonlinear programs that wildly used in 
engineering in the lass many decades. Traditionally, a widely used method for solving nonlinear 
models to obtain the approximation globally optimal solution is the exponential-based approach. 
However, exponential-based approach requires embedding large number of binary variables, 
which causes heavy computational burden and the variables within that approach are not allowed 
to be non-positive. In order to efficiently obtain the approximation global optimization, it is more 
efficient and important methods to transfer the original GGP as convex programs through 
Convexification Strategy. Although current Convexification Strategy is more efficient than the 
exponential-based approach, it still requires many 0-1 variables to transfer a non-convex term as 
a linear inequalities function set. Those binary variables will cause computational burden. This 
project intends to investigate the related theories of global optimization thus to develop a novel 
Convexification Strategy for obtaining more accurate approximation global optimization with 
less resources. The developed method will substantially reduce the computing time to obtain the 
approximation global optimization and apply to solve the engineering design problems. 
Keywords: Generalized Geometric Problems, Convexification Strategy,  
Global Optimization 
 
 1
1.  Introduction 
For achieving the project’s purpose, we have tried many methods for reducing the solving time of 
GGP problems. But there exists a phenomenon that the accuracy of resulting solution is 
proportional to the solving time. Especially in the solving GGP, the cost of less computational 
time is obtaining an inaccuracy solution whenever the Exponential-Based approach or the 
currently Convexification Strategy. In the currently methods, those also use piecewise 
linearization to transfer the non-linear term as a linear inequality set. The only way to improve 
the accuracy of a linearization function is to increase the numbers of break points, but doing so 
causes an undesirable of numerous binary variables.  
Consequently, we decide to research the convex underestimation techniques firstly. A good 
convex underestimator should be as tight as possible and should require a minimal number of 
additional variables and constraints. Floudas (2000) and Floudas et al. (2005) present various 
convex underestimating techniques. Three popular convex underestimation methods include 
arithmetic intervals (AI) (Hamed, 1991), recursive arithmetic intervals (rAI) (Hamed, 1991; 
Maranas and Floudas, 1995; Ryoo and Sahinidis, 2001), and explicit facets (EF) for convex 
envelopes of trilinear monomials (Meyer and Floudas, 2003, 2004). However, these current 
methods have difficulty in treating a posynomial function. Since the number of linear constraints 
of convex envelopes for a multilinear function with n variables grows doubly exponentially in n, 
it is more difficult for AI to treat a posynomial function for 3>n  cases. Moreover, applying the 
rAI scheme to underestimate a multilinear function nxxx ...21  requires use of exponentially many 
12 −n  linear inequalities. Therefore, the rAI bounding scheme also has difficulty in treating 
posynomial functions. 
EF (Meyer and Floudas, 2003, 2004) provide the explicit facets of the convex and concave 
envelopes of trilinear monomials. The explicit facets of the convex envelope are effective in 
treating general trilinear monomials but the derivation of explicit facets for the convex envelope 
of general multilinear monomials and signomials remains an open problem. Li, Tsai, and Floudas 
(2007) proposed a new method for the convex relaxation of posynomial functions. nnxxx
ααα ...21 21  
via the reciprocal transformation and linear underestimation of the concave terms. 
This study proposes a novel method of convex relaxation for posynomial functions 
n
nxxxf
ααα ...)( 21 21=X . For 0>jα , we introduce variable jy  and positive parameter jβ  such 
that jjj xy
β−= . We denote Ujy  as the linear function of jβ  satisfying Ujjj yxy j ≤≤ −β . By 
specifying jβ  carefully so as to minimize the difference between Ujy  and jy , we 
 3
Let us now focus on relaxing the equality (5). Since jjj
jjj xxx
βββ ≤≤  and 
jj
j
jjj
j x
yyy
x ββ
11 =≤≤=  , 
we have: 
 0)1)(( ≥−−
j
jj
j
jjj x
yxx β
ββ , (6)  
Owing to 
 1=jj yx jβ  and ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −−
−+−≤− )( jj
jj
jj
jj xxxx
xx
xx
jj
jj
ββ
ββ
,  (7)  
It is obvious 
 )()(111 jj
jj
jj
jjj
jj
jj
j
jjjj
j xxxx
xx
xxx
xx
xx
x
xxxx
y
jj
j
jj
j
jjjj
−−
−+=⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −−
−+−+≤
−−
−
ββ
β
ββ
β
ββββ . (8) 
We then deduce the following proposition: 
Proposition 2 Consider a twice-differentiable non-convex function nnxxxf
ααα ...)( 21 21=X ,  
ixxx iii   0 ∀≤≤< , where ix  and ix  are respectively the lower and upper bounds of ix . 
Let },...,1  0|{ nkkI k =∀<= α . The lower bound of )(Xf  can be obtained by solving the 
following convex problem. 
yx,
min  ∏∏
∉
−
∈ Ij
β
α
j
Ii
α
i
j
j
i yx
 
 
s.t. Ijyy Ujj ∉≤ , ,  (9) 
)( jj
jj
jj
j
U
j xxxx
xx
xy
jj
j −−
−+=
−−
−
ββ
β
,  (10) 
where jj jjj xyx
ββ −− ≤≤ , and 10 ≤< jβ . 
 
Remark 1 A smaller jβ  in Proposition 2 means that Ujy  is tighter to jy , as presented in Fig. 
1. 
 5
where 1001 ≤≤ ix , 1100 ≤≤− iyβ  for i=1,2,…,5. 
 
The β  parameter is 0.00434512. Solving this convex program with GAMS/CONOPT, we 
obtain the solution =),,,,,,,,( 543215421 yyyyyxxxx ( 90.483591, 1, 1, 1, 0.98209321, 1, 1, 1, 1), 
which corresponds to a lower bound of -209.477. The maximal number of required additional 
linear constraints is 5. Table 1 lists the results from BARON root node, ET, RT (corresponding to 
1=β ), proposed method, and known solution. It shows that the lower bound of the proposed 
method is comparable to ET and much tighter than the other two approaches. 
Table 1 Comparisons of lower bound results for Examples 
BARON ET RT 
Proposed 
method 
Global 
Optimum
-499 -209.22 -317.076 -209.477 -202 
 
4.  Conclusion 
This project integrates the convexification techniques and the bounding schemes to construct a 
convex lower bound for a posynomial program. By specifying properly the value of the jβ  
parameters, the convex relaxations produced provide tight bounds to the global optimum of the 
posynomial program. Comparing with other underestimation/relaxation techniques, the proposed 
method produces underestimators of comparable or much better tightness. 
 
5.  References 
Brooke, A., Kendrick, D., Meeraus, A., Raman, R.: GAMS: A users guide. GAMS Development 
Corporation. Washington, DC. (2005) 
Czyzyk, J., Mesnier, M., More, J.: The NEOS server. IEEE Journal on Computational Science 
and Engineering. 5, 68–75 (1998) 
Drud, A.S.: CONOPT: A system for large-scale nonlinear optimization. Reference manual for 
CONOPT subroutine library. ARKI Consulting and Development A/S. Bagsvaerd, Denmark. 
(1996) 
Floudas, C.A.: Global optimization in design and control of chemical process systems. Journal of 
Process Control. 20, 125–134 (2000) 
 7
6.  計畫成果自評部份 
與原計畫相符程度: 完全相符. 
達成預期目標情況: 完全達成 
研究之學術成果: 已研發出更高效率之凸形化策略, 使在較少資源下卻任可得到較精確
的全域最佳近似解, 以大幅縮短獲得全域最佳解的時間, 並以之應用
於工程上的設計問題等。 
此研究內容已被 Journal of Global Optimization國際期刊接受, 發表論
人資訊如下:  
Hao-Chun Lu, Han-Lin Li, Chrysanthos E. Gounaris, Christodoulos A. 
Floudas. 2010. Convex relaxation for solving posynomial programs. 
Journal of Global Optimization. 46 147-154. 
 
On-line刊登畫面 
 
 
自我感言: 此研究能夠在如此短的時間就刊登在國際期刊, 首先感謝國科會在經費的幫忙, 
使得我在做實驗時有一群研究生可以幫忙分擔工作, 同時也感謝我的老師-黎
漢林 講座教授, 在此研究上給我許多幫助. 
 
 2
System In Transnational Glasses Industry" 之報告場次為 11/26 session B2, 而該場次之主持人
為 Open University of Catalonia, Spain的Mireia Fernandez-Ardevol教授。在 Professor Mireia之
主持下，發表者與至該場次國外學者之討論乃絡繹不絕，直至大會工作人員進入議場催促，
眾人才不捨地結束討論，紛紛離開議場。除發表本身之研究成果外, 亦出席與自身研究領域
較為相關之場次, 如「Research Method I」（Session E4）與「Research Method II」（Session F5）, 
而上述會議經過之相關照片如圖 1所示。 
參加此次會議之 6名台灣學者, 採取自行參觀突尼西亞, 以體會該國之文化與歷史。突尼
西亞地形南北長、東西短，突出於地中海，南端為半沙漠地區，最南端進入撒哈拉沙漠。近
年來, 該突國積極發展觀光業, 其發展重心除地中海沿岸之城市（如蘇斯）外，亦將觀光發展
重心延伸至撒哈拉沙漠內。而該國地理樣貌具有其獨特之特殊性, 故成為許多電影或歌手MV
之取景地, 如星際大戰系列, 或台灣樂團五月天之MV。此外該國對於其歷史文物（如柏柏穴
居屋或伊爾捷古羅馬競技場）之保存亦下了很大之功夫。最後，將上述旅遊相關照片彙整如
圖 2。 
  
  
圖 1、研討會之相關照片 
