  2
中文摘要 
本研究探討以低成本之二階段濕蝕
刻製程於矽基板上製備圖案化之奈米孔
洞。製程主要包含第一階段之雙面濕蝕刻
以及後續之追蹤蝕刻。為能準確感測追蹤
蝕刻之進度，以便能於奈米孔洞剛形成時
即時終止蝕刻製程，本研究亦設計特殊之
夾製具，固定經第一階段雙面濕蝕刻後之
試片。實驗結果顯示本研究所提出之方法
確可於矽基板上製備直徑 14 奈米之孔
洞，孔洞之直徑可進一步經由熱氧化再縮
小。後續研究將以此奈米孔洞陣列基板製
備圖案化之奈米碳管陣列，應用於顯示器
與感測器等奈米元件之製作上。 
關鍵詞：圖案化奈米孔洞製備、濕蝕刻、
追蹤蝕刻 
 
Abstract 
 
A cost effectively method to fabricate 
nanopores in silicon by only using the 
conventional wet-etching technique is 
developed in this research. The main 
concept of the proposed method is a 
two-step etching process, including a 
premier double-sided wet etching and a 
succeeding track-etching. A special fixture 
is designed to hold the pre-etched silicon 
wafer inside it such that the track-etching 
can be effectively carried out. An 
electrochemical system is employed to 
detect and record the ion diffusion current 
once the pre-etched cavities are etched into 
a through nanopore. Experimental results 
indicate that the proposed method can cost 
effectively fabricate nanopores in silicon. A 
through pore with pore size being around 14 
nm can be fabricated. 
Key Words: Nanopore fabrication, wet 
etching, track etching 
 
1. Introduction 
Recent progresses in nano- 
biotechnology attract increasing interest in 
nanopore fabrication. A nanopore is a small 
pore in an electrically insulating membrane 
that can be used as a molecular probe. 
Feasible applications include ion-pumping 
[1-2], DNA sequencing and separation [3-4], 
determination of length of polymers and 
separation of polymers by length [5]. The 
size of a nanopore (with diameter and 
length smaller than 20 nm) is required to be 
just a little larger than the molecule which is 
to be investigated such that a precise 
measurement can be obtained. 
Several kinds of techniques have been 
developed to precisely fabricate nanopores, 
including ion-beam sculpting [6, 7], 
electron beams [8], oxidation [9, 10], 
vapor-etching [11], and track-etching [12]. 
However, most of these techniques usually 
involve costly fabrication equipments and 
processes. Some of them are subjected to 
specific material. It is not only cost 
ineffective but also application limited. A 
simpler and cheaper fabrication method is 
eagerly desired.  
The main goal of this research is to 
bring up a simple and cheap method to 
fabricate nanopores in silicon substrate, 
using only a two-step etching process, 
including a double-sided wet-etching 
followed by a track-etching process. 
 
2. Two-Step Etching 
The main concept of the proposed 
method is a two-step etching process. The 
first step includes etching both sides of a 
silicon substrate by conventional 
photolithography process. After the first 
step, through nanopores at those pre-etched 
spots are fabricated using the track-etching 
technique assisted by a specially designed 
fixture.  
(1) Double-sided wet etching 
Figure 1 schematically illustrates the 
procedures of the double-sided wet etching 
process. 
 
  4
An additional track-etching that enables the 
etching through process can be on-line 
monitored is desired. 
(2) Track-etching 
As shown in Figure 2, a specially 
designed fixture is designed to hold the 
pre-etched silicon wafer inside it such that 
the front side of the wafer faces the KCL 
solution (1M) and the pyramid is full of 
KCL solution. Simultaneously, the back 
side of the wafer is anisotropically 
wet-etched by the KOH etchant (50%) 
which is contained by a larger glass vessel. 
The ionic solution KCl that has higher 
hydraulic pressure is used to suppress the 
KOH, preventing the resulting nanopore 
from being over etched. Since the 
track-etching rate is 18 nm/min, the 
experimental apparatus as shown in Figure 
2 enables convenient process termination by 
only taking out the fixture as soon as the 
nanopore is formed. 
 
KCL
KOH
Pre-etched silicon wafer
KOH
KCl
Exhausting hole
O-ring
Pt
V
A
 
Figure 2. Schematic illustration of the 
track-etching setup 
 
Two platinum electrodes are put into 
the KOH and KCl solutions respectively 
and connected by a conductive wire. An 
electrochemical system PARSTAT 2236 
(Princeton Applied Research) is employed 
and a 300 mV electric potential is applied to 
examine the current once the pre-etched 
cavities are etched into a through nanopore, 
allowing ions exchanging between the KOH 
and KCl solutions.  
During the etching process, silicon is 
etched by the hydroxyl ions in the etchant to 
generate silicon hydroxide and free 
electrons. Therefore, the anode and cathode 
are placed in the KOH etchant and the KCl 
solution, respectively. The anode attracts the 
hydroxyl ions such that the etching rate can 
be slow down and a more precise nanopore 
can be fabricated. 
In general, a nano scale pore should 
allow both the cation (K+, 0.137nm) and 
anion (Cl-, 0.181 nm) to penetrate 
simultaneously. However, due to the electric 
osmosis inside a nonopore, the ion diffusion 
induced current becomes too slight to be 
efficiently detected. An applied electric 
potential is thus needed to drive the ions 
traveling through the nanopore to enable 
real time monitoring of the nanopore 
formation. 
 
3. Experimental Results and Discussions 
(1) Mask and etching duration design 
The dimensions of the mask and the 
duration of each wet etching process need 
to be determined according to the wafer 
thickness. The thickness of the silicon wafer 
used is 380 µm.  
During the first wet-etching period, the 
front surface is desired to be etched to an 
inverted pyramid with its depth being less 
than the thickness of the wafer. For a 50×50 
µm2 etch window, the depth of the after 
etching pyramid is 15.988 µm. By contrast, 
a larger etch window that leads to an after 
etching trapezoid is desired; therefore, a 
1×1 mm2 etch window is designed. The 
depth of the trapezoid is controlled by the 
etching duration. The etching rate under a 
50% KOH etchant at 95°C is 1.538 µm/min 
while the track-etching rate at room 
temperature is 18 nm/min. The thickness of 
the unetched silicon between the pyramid 
and the trapezoid should be as less as 
possible such that the track etching time can 
be minimized. In our experiment, the 
remaining unetched silicon is about 10.8µm 
in thick after going through 4 hours wet 
etching. 
(2)Fixture design 
Teflon is selected as the fixture 
material due to its high resistance to acid 
and alkali. The requirement of the Teflon 
fixture is that the KOH and KCl solutions 
can be completely sealed off, besides the 
pre-etched areas. Figure 5 is the blueprint of 
the fixture. The exhausting holes under the 
  6
engineered nanopores,” Nature 
Biotechnolo. 19, 636-639 (2001) 
[4] A. F. Sauer-Budge, J. A. Nyamwanda, D. 
K. Lubensky, and D. Branton, 
“Unzipping kinetics of double-stranded 
DNA in a nanopore,” Phys. Rev. Lett. 
90, 238101 (2003) 
[5] S. M. Bezrukov, I. Vodyanoy, and V. A. 
Parsegian, “Counting polymers moving 
through a single ion channel,” Nature 
390, 279-291 (1994) 
[6] J. Li, D, Stein, C. McMullan, D. 
Branton, M. J. Aziz, J. A. 
Golovchenko, ”Ion-beam sculpting at 
nanometre length scales,” Nature 12, 
412(6843):166-9 (2001) 
[7] J. Li, M. Gershow, D. Stein, E. Brandin, 
J. A. Golovchenko, “DNA molecules 
and configurations in a solid-state 
nanopore microscope,” Nat Mater 
2(9):611-5 (2003) 
[8] A. J. Storm, J. H. Chen, X. S. Ling, H. 
W. Zandbergen, C. Dekker, “Fabrication 
of solid-state nanopores with 
single-nanometre precision,” Nat Mater 
2(8):537-40 (2003) 
[9] G. M. Kim, A. Kovalgin, J. Holleman, J. 
Brugger,” Replication molds having 
nanometer-scale shape control 
fabricated by means of oxidation and 
etching ,” J Nanosci Nanotechnol 
2(1):55-9 (2002) 
[10] H. Zhang, Z. Chen, T. Li, K. Saito, 
“Fabrication of a one-dimensional array 
of nanopores horizontally aligned on a 
Si substrate,” J Nanosci Nanotechnol 
5(10):1745-8 (2005) 
[11] N. Mliki, H. Kaabi, B. Bessais, B. 
Yangui, W. Saikaly, C. Dominici, A. 
Charai , “Morphology and 
microstructure at different scales of 
porous silicon prepared by a 
nonconventional technique,” J Nanosci 
Nanotechnol 3(5):413-9 (2003) 
[12] R. L. Fleischer, P. B. Rrice, R. M. 
Walker, Nuclear Tracks in Solids: 
Principles and Applications. University 
of California Press, Berkeley (1975). 
 
 
 2
一、參加會議經過： 
 2007 Symposium on Design, Test, Integration and Packaging of MEMS/MOEMS 乃是
由 TIMA (法國國家實驗室)與 IEEE(國際電機電子工程學會)共同主辦之微機電與微光
機電(MEMS/MOEMS) 領域一年一度之國際性會議。本次大會於 4 月 25 日至 4 月 27
日於義大利 Stresa, Lago Maggiore 湖畔之 Regina Palace 飯店舉行。整個會議過程吸引
來自世界各地約 200 位微機電與微光機電領域之專家學者參與盛會，大會內容分成
CAD, Design and Test 與 Microfabrication, Integration and Packing 兩大領域，主要學術與
技術會議於每日上午 8:30 至 18:00 共六個時段為論文發表與專題演講，第一天下午
15:50 至 17:30 則是論文張貼，而以張貼方式發表之論文，作者亦需先進行 5 分鐘之口
頭報告，之後再於現場解說。 除了學術論文發表外，主辦單位亦精心安排專題演講、
座談會、以及微機電與微光機電領域相關廠商擺設展示，商參展廠商包括
MEMUNITY、CMP、Fogale nanotech、EVG 等，包含微機電代工晶圓廠、奈微米機械
設備商、奈微米元件測試商、奈微米設計製造模擬軟體商。座談會主要是討論歐盟架
構下之奈微米科技 R & D 合作機制。 
 筆者此次有(1) Biodegradable polylactic acid (PLA) microstructures for scaffold 
applications (2) A two-step etching method to fabricate nanopores in silicon 等二篇論文發
表，被安排在第二天(4 月 26 日)上午與下午分別發表。論文發表過程以及會議期間能
和與會專家學者充分交換研究心得。大會主席並邀請筆者能於明年之 DTIP 2008 會議
(預計於法國尼斯舉辦)中籌組生醫微機電議程，大會主席 Dr. Courtois 乃是法國國家實
驗室(TIMA)之 Director。 
 
二、與會心得： 
 Symposium on Design, Test, Integration and Packaging of MEMS/MOEMS為在歐洲
舉辦微機電與微光機電年度最大之會議，除歐洲外，來自世界其他各地微機電與微光
機電領域的研究人員也多會參加，我國共有14篇論文被接受發表，僅次於主辦之法國
(16篇)居第二位，我國之參與者除筆者與本校精密工程研究所楊錫杭教授與林明澤教授
外，尚有台灣大學、屏東科技大學、虎尾科技大學、大葉大學之教授與學生。除議程
之進行，每天約有二小時之午餐時間，得以在風景優美之Lago Maggiore與來自世界各
地微機電與微光機電領域內之學者專家相互切磋，交換意見。其中來自德國IZM之Dr. 
Erik Jung乃是本次大會之共同主席，目前代表IZM駐在美國之University of Utah (Salt 
Lake City, Utah) ，邀請筆者於今年九月前往Las Vegas參加ASME IDET 2007時能順道
前往University of Utah參訪並進行學術交流，Dr. Jung並將於今年十月來工研院洽公，
筆者亦邀請Dr. Jung前來中興大學參訪進行學術交流。 
 會議第二天之議程於下午3:40結束，大會特安排於4:10帶領所有與會者搭車前往
Lake of Orta，除飽覽沿岸阿爾卑斯山景色外，約有1.5小時由當地導遊導覽Orta湖之San 
Giulio島，San Giulio島乃是中世紀Stresa地區之宗教勝地，當地教堂仍留有數百年歷史
 4
A TWO-STEP ETCHING METHOD TO FABRICATE NANOPORES IN SILICON 
 
Gou-Jen Wang1*, Wei-Zheng Chen1, Kang J. Chang2 
 
1 Department of Mechanical Engineering, 
National Chung-Hsing University, 
Taichung, Taiwan 
Email:gjwang@dragon.nchu.edu.tw 
2Department of Mfg. Systems Eng. 
California State University,  
Northridge, California, USA 
 
 
                                                 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
A cost effectively method to fabricate nanopores in 
silicon by only using the conventional wet-etching 
technique is developed in this research. The main 
concept of the proposed method is a two-step etching 
process, including a premier double-sided wet etching 
and a succeeding track-etching. A special fixture is 
designed to hold the pre-etched silicon wafer inside it 
such that the track-etching can be effectively carried out. 
An electrochemical system is employed to detect and 
record the ion diffusion current once the pre-etched 
cavities are etched into a through nanopore. 
Experimental results indicate that the proposed method 
can cost effectively fabricate nanopores in silicon. 
 
Keywords: Nanopore fabrication, wet etching, track 
etching 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Recent progresses in nanobiotechnology attract 
increasing interest in nanopore fabrication. A nanopore 
is a small pore in an electrically insulating membrane 
that can be used as a molecular probe. Feasible 
applications include ion-pumping [1-2], DNA 
sequencing and separation [3-4], determination of length 
of polymers and separation of polymers by length [5]. 
The size of a nanopore (with diameter and length smaller 
than 20 nm) is required to be just a little larger than the 
molecule which is to be investigated such that a precise 
measurement can be obtained. 
Several kinds of techniques have been developed 
to precisely fabricate nanopores, including ion-beam 
sculpting [6-7], electron beams [8], oxidation [9-10], 
vapour-etching [11], and track-etching [12]. However, 
most of these techniques usually involve costly 
fabrication equipments and processes. Some of them are 
subjected to specific material. It is not only cost 
ineffective but also application limited. A simpler and 
cheaper fabrication method is eagerly desired.  
The main goal of this research is to bring up a simple 
and cheap method to fabricate nanopores in silicon 
substrate, using only a two-step etching process, 
including a double-side wet-etching followed by a 
track-etching. 
 
2. TWO-STEP ETCHING 
 
The main concept of the proposed method is a 
two-step etching process. The first step includes 
etching both sides of a silicon substrate by 
conventional photolithography process. After the first 
step, through nanopores at those pre-etched spots are 
fabricated using the track-etching technique and a 
specially designed fixture. Figure 1 and 2 schematically 
illustrate the procedures of the two-step etching 
process. 
 
 
Figure 1. Schematic illustration of the double-sided 
Gou-Jen Wang, Wei-Zheng Chen, Kang J. Chang 
A Two-Step Etching Method to Fabricate Nanopores in Silicon 
©EDA Publishing/DTIP 2007 -page- ISBN: …. 
In general, a nano scale pore should allow both the 
cation (K+, 0.137nm) and anion (Cl-, 0.181 nm) to 
penetrate simultaneously. However, due to the electric 
osmosis inside a nonopore, the ion diffusion induced 
current becomes too slight to be efficiently detected. An 
applied electric potential is thus needed to drive the ions 
traveling through the nanopore to enable real time 
monitoring of the nanopore formation. 
 
3. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND 
DISCUSSIONS 
 
(1) Mask and etching duration design 
The dimensions of the mask and the duration of 
each wet etching process need to be determined 
according to the wafer thickness. The thickness of the 
silicon wafer is 380 µm.  
During the first wet-etching period, the front 
surface is desired to be etched to an inverted pyramid 
with its depth being less than the thickness of the wafer. 
For a 50×50 µm2 etch window, the depth of the after 
etching pyramid is 15.988 µm. By contrast, a larger etch 
window that leads to an after etching trapezoid is desired; 
therefore, a 1×1 mm2 etch window is designed. The 
depth of the trapezoid is controlled by the etching 
duration. The etching rate under a 50% KOH etchant at 
95°C is 1.538 µm/min while the track-etching rate at 
room temperature is 18 nm/min. The thickness of the 
unetched silicon between the pyramid and the trapezoid 
should be as less as possible such that the track etching 
time can be minimized. In our experiment, the remaining 
unetched silicon is about 10.8µm in thick after going 
through 4 hours wet etching. 
(2)Fixture design 
Teflon is selected as the fixture material due to its 
high resistance to acid and alkali. The requirement of the 
Teflon fixture is that the KOH and KCl solutions can be 
completely sealed off, besides the pre-etched areas. 
Figure 5 is the blueprint of the fixture. The exhausting 
holes under the wafer holding place allow the residual 
air to be discharged. 
(3) Real time monitoring of the nanopore formation 
processs 
The remaining silicon thickness after going 
through the first etching process is about 10.8 μm. It 
takes more than 10 hours to carry out the track etching 
process. Figure 6 describes the real time monitoring 
current of the track etching process. The results indicate 
that a nanopre can be fabricated by the proposed 
two-step etching method. 
Figure 5. The blueprint of the fixture for the track 
etching 
 
C
ur
re
nt
 (A
)
 
Figure 6. The real time monitoring current of the track 
etching process 
 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
 
In this paper, a two-step etching method to 
fabricate nanopores in silicon by only using the 
conventional wet-etching technique is presented. The 
two-step process includes a premier double-sided wet 
etching and a succeeding track-etching. A special fixture 
is designed to hold the pre-etched silicon wafer inside it 
such that the track-etching can be effectively carried out. 
The tracking etching is monitored in real-time by an 
electrochemical system that can detect the submicron 
scale current as soon as a nanopore is formed. 
Experimental results indicate that the proposed method 
can cost effectively fabricate nanopores in silicon.  
Our future work will focus on the fabrication of a 
patterned nanopore array in silicon and using it to grow 
patterned carbon nano tube array for the field emission 
display applications. 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 Stresa, Italy, 25-27 April 2007 
©EDA Publishing/DTIP 2007 -page- ISBN: …. 
BIODEGRADABLE POLYLACTIC ACID (PLA) MICROSTRUCTURES FOR SCAFFOLD 
APPLICATIONS 
 
Gou-Jen Wang*, Kuan-Hsuan Ho, and Cheng-Chih Hsueh 
 
Department of Mechanical Engineering,  
National Chung-Hsing University, 
Taichung, Taiwan 
Email:gjwang@dragon.nchu.edu.tw 
 
 
                                                 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
In this research, we present a simple and cost effective 
soft lithographic process to fabricate PLA scaffolds for 
tissue engineering. In which, the negative photoresist JSR 
THB-120N was spun on a glass subtract followed by 
conventional UV lithographic processes to fabricate the 
master to cast the PDMS elastomeric mold. A thin 
poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) layer was used as a mode 
release such that the PLA scaffold can be easily peeled 
off. The PLA precursor solution was then cast onto the 
PDMS mold to form the PLA microstructures. After 
evaporating the solvent, the PLA microstructures can be 
easily peeled off from the PDMS mold. Experimental 
results show that the desired microvessels scaffold can be 
successfully transferred to the biodegradable polymer 
PLA. 
 
Keywords: Biodegradable polymer PLA, Soft lithography, 
Scaffold fabrication 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Biodegradable polymers are currently used in a 
number of biomedical applications, including sutures, 
screws, surgical adhesives, drug delivery, as well as the 
scaffolds for tissue engineering [1-2]. Polylactic acid 
(PLA) and its copolymers are commonly used 
biodegradable polymers in soft lithography [3-4] to 
fabricate scaffolds [5-7] due to their favorable 
biocompatibility and biodegradability. PLA is derived 
from lactic acid and can be easily produced in a high 
molecular weight form through ring-opening 
polymerization using a stannous octoate catalyst. 
The soft lithography process includes fabrication of 
the elastomeric mode and use of it to make features in 
geometries defined by the mode’s relief structure. 
Conventional soft lithography uses polydimethylsiloxane 
(PDMS) elastomeric mode formed from patterned silicon 
wafers or quarts to generate biodegradable 
microstructures by replica molding, hot embossing, and 
contact printing [8-9]. The main problem of conventional 
replica molding method is that the etching in silicon 
wafer is time consuming and can only fabricate relatively 
low aspect ratio devices. In addition, inclined side walls 
due to wet etching are inevitable, especially for high 
aspect ratio microstructures. Although negative 
photoresist SU-8 has been applied to fabricate master 
mode with high aspect ratio and near-vertical side walls 
[10-11], JSR photoresist has been found to be easily 
striped with no residues in solvent stripper solutions, 
making it suitable for the processing of MEMS devices 
[12].  
In this research, we focus on developing a simple and 
cost effective process to fabricate PLA scaffolds for 
tissue engineering, using the negative photoresist JSR 
THB-120N as the master to cast an PDMS elastomeric 
mold, followed by spin-coating a thin poly(vinyl alcohol) 
(PVA) layer on it as a mode release such that the PLA 
scaffold can be easily peeled off. The PDMS mold is then 
filled with PLA precursor solution. After evaporating the 
solvent, the PLA microstructures can be peeled off from 
the PDMS mold and be used for cell culture. 
 
2. MATERIALS AND METHODS 
 
Soft lithography was implemented to fabricate PLA 
microstructures for tissue engineering by dissolving PLA 
in Dioxane (TEDIA) then casting the solution onto the 
Gou-Jen Wang*, Kuan-Hsuan Ho, and Cheng-Chih Hsueh 
Biodegradable PLA Microstructures For Scaffold Applications 
©EDA Publishing/DTIP 2007 -page- ISBN: …. 
 
Figure 3. Microvessel scaffold for tissue engineering 
 
Figure 4 illustrates the OM images of JSR 
THB-120N convex master. It can be found that the 
desired microchannel structures are completely 
transferred to the photoresist. 
    
Figure 4. OM images of the JSR THB-120N convex 
master 
 
The OM images of the PDMS concave mold are 
presented in Figure 5. The microstructures are 
successfully replicated onto the PDMS from the 
photoresist master. 
 
    
Figure 5. OM images of the PDMS concave mold 
 
The MO micrographs of the PLA microstructures 
peeled off from the PDMS mold is depicted in Figure 6. 
The microstructures can be used to seed cells. Bonding 
the PLA microstructures with a flat PLA plate, a PLA 
scaffold for microvessels can be obtained.  
 
    
Figure 6. OM micrographs of the PLA scaffold 
 
4. CELL SEEDING 
 
The seeding cells used to grow the microvessels are 
the bovine endothelial cells (BEC). Semi-dynamic 
seeding is executed. Schematic illustration of the 
semi-dynamic seeding is shown in Figure 7. Instead of 
using a peristaltic pump, circulation of the cultivation 
medium is carried out by periodically injecting fresh 
medium into and sucking aging medium out of the 
scaffold. The circulation frequency is 2-3 times daily. 
 
2468
Cultivation
medium
Microvessel scaffold
Medium injection Medium
sucking
 
Figure 7. Semi-dynamic seeding 
 
 
4.1 Biocompatibility Experiments 
Biocompatibility is the key factor that determines 
the adhesion between cells and the scaffolds. Different 
kinds of biomaterials, TCPS (conventional used 
biomaterial for cell seeding), PDMS, PLA, and glass 
substrate are used for biocompatibility comparisons. Due 
to its high hydrophilic identity, the glass scaffold is used 
for contrast. Biocompatibility experimental results are 
shown in Figure 8. The TCPS scaffold has the largest 
number of living cells, followed by the glass, PLA and 
