 2
high-frequency magnetic field. Upon magnetic stimulation, the single-crystal iron oxide shell 
demonstrates formation of a polycrystalline-like structure of varying orientation. This allows a 
variation between retention and slow release of the drug. Further stimulation causes permanent 
rupturing of the shell, causing release of the drug in a burst-like manner. The quantum dot 
bonded to the nanodevice provides optical information for in-situ monitoring of the drug release 
through use of a magnetic field. It has been quantitatively determined that there is a linear 
decrease in optical intensity of the quantum dot with drug release. Remote control drug release 
from the nanodevice in a cancerous cell line (i.e., HeLa) was successfully accomplished using 
the same induction scenario. When nanodevices equipped with quantum dots are taken into 
cancerous cells, they are able to provide real-time drug dose information through corresponding 
variation in emission spectrum. The nanodevice designed in this study has achieved its potential 
as a cell-based drug delivery system for nanotherapeutic applications via remote controlled drug 
release and in-situ monitoring capabilities. 
. 
Keywords: Nanoparticles, Controlled release, Magnetic field, Quantum dots, Imaging 
 
1. Introduction 
Surface modification with functional attachments is a widely used technical strategy to 
enhance biological, optical and chemical functionality of materials in a wide variety of 
biomedical applications, such as imaging, diagnosis, drug delivery, implants, and so on.[1-5] 
Recently, the development of multifunctional, nanomedical platforms, through skillful 
combination of different nanostructured materials, has been proposed. Owing to the specific 
advantages of these nanomaterials, many studies have been done on multimodal imaging and 
simultaneous therapy.[6-9] For example, magnetic nanoparticles were infused with fluorescent 
dye to construct multimodal imaging probes.[8,9] Among the many nanoparticulate systems, 
semiconductor nanocrystals known as quantum dots (QDs) confer advantages over traditional 
fluorescent molecules, such as organic dyes. This is because of their unique optical properties, 
including narrow photoluminescence spectra, low photo-leaching, and high resistance to 
chemical degradation.[5] QDs have also been reported to carry therapeutic agents for healing 
applications.[7] The combination of both imaging and therapeutic functions in nanoparticles 
introduces an attractive advance in the field of biomedicine, diagnosis, and pharmaceutics. 
 Surface-modified, magnetic nanoparticles are widely used in the field of biomedicals, 
including drug/gene delivery,[10,11] bioseparation,[12] magnetic resonance imaging[13,14] and 
hyperthermia therapy.[14] A magnetic field provides a non-contact force, allowing remote 
management of dosing, where the field triggers drug release from the magnetic drug carriers.[15] 
In our previous studies, we extensively characterized the magnetic-sensitive properties of 
ferrogel under a high frequency magnetic field (HFMF). Drug release from the ferrogel was 
effectively activated via an external magnetic field. Derfus et al. demonstrated that the magnetic 
platform had the ability to remotely trigger release of biomolecules from its surface. This was 
 4
FeCl3·6H2O and FeCl2·4H2O with a FeCl2/FeCl3 molar ratio of 2:1 were dissolved into water 
and mixed with the drug-loaded PVP nanoparticles under vigorous stirring at 80°C. After 4 hr, 
the iron salts were deposited on the surface of the drug-loaded PVP nanoparticles. This was 
achieved via slow addition of 2 ml of ammonium water (NH4OH, 33%), causing precipitation so 
that iron oxide shells were immediately formed on the surface of PVP nanoparticles. At this 
stage, a drug-loaded PVP core-iron oxide shell nanosphere exists in the solution. Precipitated 
powders were collected by centrifugation at 6000 rpm, removed from the solution, and washed 
in D.I. water four times. The PVP-Fe3O4 core/shell nanospheres were separated by the 
centrifugation. The average diameter of the core-shell nanospheres was about 12-20 nm.  
To grow the ZCIS quantum dots on the surface of the PVP-Fe3O4 core/shell nanospheres, 
they were re-dispersed in trioctylphosphine (TOP, 90%, technical grade) with 
diethyldithiocarbamic acid zinc salt, [(C2H5)2NCSS]2Zn. The solution was diluted with 
octadecene (ODE, 90%, technical grade) to form Solution 1. Then, CuCl and InCl3 were 
dissolved in oleylamine at 50°C to form Solution 2. The two solutions were mixed and heated to 
140°C in a nitrogen atmosphere for several minutes. Deposition of quantum dots (QDs) on the 
surface of the PVP/Fe3O4 core-shell nanospheres caused the solution to turn yellow.  
2.2 Characterization. The formation of nanostructures was investigated using transmission 
electron microscopy (TEM, JEM-2010, Japan). A high frequency magnetic field (HFMF) at 
50-100 kHz was applied to the magnetic nanodevices to investigate the drug release behavior. 
The HFMF was created using a power supply, a functional generator, an amplifier, and coolant 
water. Similar equipment was reported in PNAS, vol. 103, 3540–3545 (2006). The strength of 
the magnetic field depends on the coils. In this study, the coils consist of eight loops. The 
frequency is 50 kHz and the strength of magnetic field (H) is 2.5 kA/m. The temperature of the 
HFMF generator was controlled by cycling water at 25°C. The drug release behavior from 0.05 
Wt. % of magnetic nanodevices was measured in a 20 ml phosphate buffered saline (pH 7.4). PL 
spectroscopy (PL, Fluorescence Spectrophotometer F-4500, Hitachi, Japan) was used to 
characterize the release profile of the dye molecule and the fluorescence intensity of 
nanodevices after application of a high frequency magnetic field (HFMF) of 50 kHz. The 
nanodevices, at a concentration of 0.05 Wt. %, were dispersed in the water solution for varying 
durations. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed in an ESCALAB 250 
(Thermo VG Scientific, West Sussex, UK), equipped with Mg Kα at 1253.6 eV at the anode. 
The chemical shifts of the XPS peaks were standardized with respect to C 1s peak at 284.6 eV.  
2.3 Cell Culture and In-Situ Monitoring of Drug Release. HeLa, human cervical cancer cells, 
were maintained in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (DMEM) with 10% fetal bovine 
serum, 100 units/mL penicillin, and 100 μg/mL streptomycin. Cells were cultured at 37°C in a 
humidified atmosphere of 5% CO2 in air. The nanodevices were incubated with the cells for 12 
hours. The cells were then subjected to a high frequency magnetic field (HFMF) for 0, 90 and 
180 sec. Results were observed by PL microscopy (Nikon TE-2000U, Japan). Digital analysis 
software (Nikon, Japan) was used to analyze the fluorescence intensities of the model drug and 
 6
TEM image and (c) HRTEM image of the PVP-Fe3O4 core-shell nanospheres. (d) HRTEM 
image of the ZCIS-doped nanospheres. After incorporation of the ZCIS QDs on the core-shell 
nanospheres, the suspension displayed a fluorescence character under the UV light (inset 
picture). 
 
Figure 2, confirms that the structure of the nanospheres is an amorphous core and a thin 
single-crystal shell. The single-crystal structure in the shell structure suggests self-organization 
of the iron oxide precursor upon nucleation and growth in the presence of the PVP. Although 
limited to metallic crystals, this agrees with an earlier study of a similar synthesis scenario. In 
the current core-shell system, iron ions can be efficiently anchored onto the pyrrolidone ring of 
PVP. This provides epitaxial-like growth of the oxide to form single-crystal structure. After the 
core-shell nanocapsules were synthesized, ZCIS quantum dots were prepared and grown on the 
shell surface. A procedure described by Nakamura et al. is used to form Fe3O4 shell -ZCIS 
heterodimers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Local Fourier transfer patterns of single-crystal iron oxide shell indicate that the shell 
exhibits uniform and homogenous crystalline orderliness along the surface of the core phase. 
 
Energy dispersive X-ray spectrometer (EDS) analysis confirms that the ring-like region 
mainly consists of Fe and the small solid particle consists of Cu and S, shown in Figure 3. The 
local Fourier transfer pattern also demonstrates a high crystallinity of the ZCIS QD. After 
incorporation of the ZCIS QDs onto the shells, the resulting suspension shows a strong yellow 
appearance under UV exposure. This can be seen in the inset picture of Figure 1d and suggests 
that these ZCIS-modified nanocapsules (hereafter called nanodevices) can be used not only as 
drug nanocarriers, but also as nano-probes for imaging.  
 
 
 
 8
3.2 Drug release and in-situ monitoring abilities of the nanodevices  
The nanodevices were surface-modified and conjugated with a targeting ligand, folic acid 
(FA), to cause hydrophilic behavior. The process is illustrated in Figure 5. After modification of 
the nanodevices, a stable aqueous suspension was prepared. The fluorescence spectrum of the 
ZCIS remained identical to the initial preparation, indicating that folic acid imparts no adverse 
effect on the optical properties of the ZCIS QDs. The suspension was subjected to a high 
frequency magnetic field (HFMF) for investigation of the drug release mechanism. Prior to 
magnetic stimulation, the green-fluorescence loaded nanospheres showed no sign of release in 
24 hours of storage in an ambient environment.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 Cellular uptake of the nanodevice was evaluated using HeLa cells, by incubating the 
cell line with both mercaptoundecanoic acid-modified nanodevice (MUA-NDs) and folic 
acid-modified nanodevice (FA-NDs). Both the MUA-NDs and FA-NDs were uptaken by the 
cells in 4 hours of period, probably through endocytosis, with different degrees of efficiency. 
 
This was confirmed via PL spectroscopic monitoring and suggests that the dye molecules 
are encapsulated in the core phase for a long period of time without any unwanted leakage. 
However, subjection to the HFMF for varying lengths of time, as shown in Figure 6a, reveals an 
interesting phenomenon. The intensity of the dye emission peak at 517 nm increased with the 
duration of the magnetic field. In contrast, the intensity of the emission peak from the ZCIS QDs 
showed an opposite relationship, a decrease in emission intensity. The increase in peak intensity 
with time upon magnetic stimulation indicates a magnetically-induced release of dye molecules 
from the nanodevices. In a recent study, such a release can be easily and precisely controlled 
with manipulation of the surrounding magnetic field; from a burst-like profile upon stimulation 
to a zero release profile immediately after removal of the magnetic field. The emission peak 
HS
CO
OH
HS
CO
OH
H2N
C
NH2O
OH
HS
CO
HN
C
NH2O
OH
+ +
MUA Lysine
DCC
EDC +FA
Folic Acid
FA FA FA FA FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FAFA
F
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
F
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
FA
F
Oil soluble MUA-NPs
(Water soluble)
FA-NPs
(Water soluble)
FAFAFAFA
 10
sources, this finding strongly suggests that the drug release from the nanodevice can be 
quantitatively correlated with in-vitro, doped ZCIS QDs. to high precision. Dye release can be 
precisely monitored along with the spectral variation of the ZCIS QDs from the nanodevices. 
This finding is in agreement with the hypothesis that two independent mechanisms can be 
triggered simultaneously from a given magnetic field, and that the mechanisms will also be 
quantitatively correlated. We believe that this highly correlated relationship may also be adopted 
for in-situ monitoring of cellular systems. This will be explained further. In addition, another 
experiment was further performed for investigation of the influence of different weight ratio of 
QDs to magnetic nanocapsules on the decreasing intensity of QDs in the solution with applied 
duration at a 2.5kA/m of magnetic field strength. 
3.3 Spectrum variation of the ZCIS QD under magnetic induction 
The mechanism causing the spectral variation of the ZCIS QDs upon magnetic induction 
is of great interest. To further explore the possible causes, a separate photoluminescence test for 
the ZCIS QDs was performed in the same magnetic field; no detectable sign of change in the 
emitted spectrum was observed. This indicates an invariance in the spectral properties of the 
ZCIS QDs with respect to magnetic field. Since the variation of emitted spectrum for quantum 
dots has been proven to be associated with a change in the band energy structure or surface 
composition of the QDs, it is highly plausible that a number of factors cause changes in the 
resulting spectrum of the ZCIS QDs. These changes may include magnetically-induced heating, 
surface adsorption of the dye molecules, and/or surface corrosion due to the presence of water. 
However, according to experimental observation, the above factors have to be rapidly 
responsive and probably interdependent since the decrease in the emission intensity and a red 
shift of the spectra occurred relatively quickly, in less than 20 seconds, in the presence of the 
magnetic stimulation at 2.5kA/m. More interestingly, it is evident that the spectral variation has 
experimentally proven to be irreversible. These observations suggest that a permanent change in 
either chemical or physical structure has been induced rapidly on the ZCIS QDs while the 
nanodevices were subjected to magnetic stimulus. 
To further explain the reasons behind the spectral degeneration of the QDs under short-term 
induction, nanodevices not carrying the dye molecules were prepared and exposed to the same 
magnetic field. The resulting emission spectra were identical to the case of the nanodevices with 
the dye. This indicates that dye molecules exerted little or no influence on resulting PL emission 
spectra of the ZCIS QDs. The PL spectrum of the dye molecules remained identical in shape and 
emission peak, suggesting that the dye molecules, after release into an aqueous environment, 
remained chemically and physically stable. There is a magnetically-induced temperature rise, or 
hot spot, on the shell of the nanodevice due to magnetic energy dissipation from single-domain 
particles, such as a Brown and/or Neel relaxation, where this has been verified in a number of 
recent studies.[42] From experimental observation, the temperature of the solution that contained 
the nano-devices gradually rises. As shown in Figure 7, while applying a high strength magnetic 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 Binding energy of S 2p of the nanodevices with and without exposure to a high 
frequency magnetic field (HFMF) for a time period of 180 seconds. XPS results indicate the 
binding energy shift of the S 2p line from 162.3 eV - 166.2 eV before the stimulus to a single, 
strong binding-energy peak at 167 eV after the magnetic exposure. This could be attributed to 
S2- from ZnS, CuS, In2S3, or SO42-, SO2. The binding energy at 167 eV on the ZCIS surface is 
strongly associated with the presence of oxide groups including SO42-, SO2, etc on the surface. 
This demonstrates a rapid oxidation of the ZCIS QDs after a short period of magnetic induction. 
 
An important concern for practical applications of this nanodevice is whether the emission 
degeneration of the attached QDs occurs spontaneously without the presence of the magnetic 
field over a reasonable time period in a physiological environment. If spontaneous degeneration 
occurs, the correlation depicted in Fig. 6 becomes unreliable. To examine this possibility, a 
simple test was performed by incubating the nanodevices in PBS for a time period of 6 hours, 
followed by measuring the PL emission spectrum at various time intervals, as shown in Figure 9. 
Fortunately, the resulting PL spectrum of the QDs remained identical over the timespan of 
evaluation. This confirms the reliability of the linear relationship given in Figure 3 and further 
substantiates the correlation between two optical spectra as sustainable in vitro. However, it is 
more technically important from the current research that both spectral variations, the one from 
dye spectrum and the PL emission of the ZCIS, are able to work independently but are well 
correlated. In other words, the attached ZCIS QD can act as a nanometric sensor to monitor the 
quantity of drug released from the drug-carrying nanodevice. This multi-functional assembly, 
imaging, drug delivery controller and in-situ monitor, when integrated onto the nanodevice, may 
enable new pathways to advance nano-therapeutic technology. 
 
 14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 50 (a) Schematic illustration of the nanodevice with a proposed mechanism for 
controlled release of the dye molecules, as well as the degeneration of fluorescence intensity of 
the ZCIS QDs (b) Shell vibration causing enlargement of the dimensions of nano-crevices along 
the deformed single-crystal shell, rendering dye release upon short-term magnetic stimulation. (c) 
After long-term exposure, the deformed shell has received a sufficient amount of the energy to 
cause a final, permanent, mechanical rupture. Meanwhile, a rapid surface oxidation altered the 
surface structure of the QDs, leading to substantial degeneration of the fluorescence intensity.  
 
3.5 In-situ-Monitoring of Drug Release in Cancerous Cells   
To understand the optical behavior of the nanodevices within cells, they were modified using 
mercaptoundecanoic acid (MUA) followed by cross linking with lysine to form a hydrophilic 
layer exhibiting both carboxyl and amine groups on its surface. Folic acid molecules were 
attached to the functional layer on the surface using carbodiimide chemistry to form 
bioconjugates. Folate receptors (FR) act as cancer-cell targeting ligands due to overexpression in 
many human cancerous cells, including mammary gland, lung, kidney, colon, prostate and throat 
cells. However, they are only minimally distributed in normal cells. Folic acid exhibits high 
affinity to FR and is expected to allow the nanodevice to efficiently enter into cancerous cells 
 (b) 
2 nm
QD 
 (c) 
2 nm 
QD 
(b)  
Single-crystal Shell 
(Yellow) 
Poly-crystal Shell 
(Red) 
Rupture 
(Dark) 
Oxidation 
(C) 
(a) 
 16
At the highest concentration of 1 μL/cc FA-NDs, the cell viability remained at approximately 96 
%. The results suggest that the nanodevices show minimal toxicity for the HeLa cells.  
After cellular uptake, controlled drug release and real-time, in-situ monitoring of the ZCIS QDs 
were performed in a magnetic field with a strength of 2.5 kA/m. As illustrated in Figure 13, an 
increase in the duration of the field from 0 to 180 sec caused the dye molecules (Green channel) 
to be released rapidly within the cells, while the corresponding fluorescence intensity of the 
ZCIS QDs (Red channel) decreased.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7 Fluorescent combination of the HeLa cells with the dye-loaded nanodevices after 12 
hours incubation. With increasing duration of HFMF treatment, both the controlled release of 
the dye molecules (green channel intensity increased) and the associated real-time, in-situ 
monitoring capability of the doped ZCIS QDs (red channel intensity decreased) can be 
manipulated simultaneously to single-cell resolution. This implies that dye release can be 
precisely monitored by the variation of the ZCIS QDs from the nanodevices. Gsum/Bsum 
represents the ratio of the green channel intensity to blue channel intensity, and is indicative of 
the relative concentration of the model drug in each cell. Rsum/Bsum is then defined as the relative 
intensities of the nanodevices in each cell. 
 
Digital software (Nikon, Japan) was used to analyze the fluorescence intensities of both the dye 
 18
4. Conclusions  
The multifunctional drug delivery nanodevice makes use of quantum dots to successfully image, 
target, and deliver drugs via remote control. The devices also have the capability to monitor the 
in-situ drug release within a model cancerous cell line, HeLa cells, to cellular resolution. These 
nanodevices offer outstanding control of release and retention for the molecules encapsulated 
inside their polymer core. The dense, single-crystalline shell prevents the fluorescence dye from 
escaping prior to the desired release. Furthermore, the nanodevices are able to monitor real-time 
drug dosage through corresponding variation in emission spectrum of the quantum dots within 
the HeLa cells. The nanodevices have great potential advantages as a cell-specific drug delivery 
system for nanotherapeutic applications. With the in-situ monitoring capability of the 
nanodevice, we believe that both target-oriented therapy and diagnosis can be integrated and 
managed within a single cell. Multifunctional nano-platforms are expected to open a new 
avenue in the development of multifunctional therapeutic nanosystems. An in-vivo analysis is 
currently underway to treat brain tumors in mice. 
 
Acknowledgments 
This work was financially supported by the National Science Council of the Republic of 
China, Taiwan under Contract No. NSC97-2221-E-009-015-MY3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1
第 7 屆歐洲國際奈米生醫技術研討會議 
7th NanoBio-Europe International Congress & Exhibition on Nanobiotechnology 
NanoBioEurope 2011 
June 21-23, 2011 
Cork, Ireland 
 
陳三元  教授 
國立交通大材料科學與工程學系所 
 
(一) 參加會議過程： 
本人於2011年6月19日晚上(PM 7:20) 從桃園國際中正機場搭乘國泰航空客
機，經香港前往英國倫敦機場，到倫敦機場時已經是6月20日早上，然後再從倫
敦機場繼續搭乘荷蘭航空客機前往愛爾蘭科克機場，接著就立即搭車前往科克
University College,Cork, Ireland會場，並辦理報到及註冊手續。然後就是一
系列密集又緊湊的三天(6/21~6/23)研討會，於 6月23日下午13:30結束研討會，
然後於隔天再搭乘渡輪，從愛爾蘭都柏林首都前往英國倫敦，然後再搭國泰航空
客機，經香港轉機飛回臺灣桃園國際中正機場，到台灣已經是晚上PM 19:20，到
家之後，雖然覺得相當的累，但是精神還算不錯。在此仍是非常感謝國科會的補
助，能參加這次第7屆奈米生醫歐洲國際奈米生醫技術研討會議，心裡覺得很高
興，由於這個會議主要是著重在奈米生醫科技，因此對於心血管及腫瘤疾病與奈
米微機電及感測元件方面的研究報告，相當完整且壯觀，畢竟此種經驗是很難得
的，希望藉此次的參與，能多吸取別人的優點及經驗，以便對日後的研究會有所
幫助。 
    這次國際藥物釋放控制研討會議，是由Tyndall National Institute, University 
College, Cork 所主辦。在這次學術會議上，共邀請 9 位internationally renowned 
 3
我也同時有一篇 poster presentation” Magnetically Double Emulsion Nanocapsules 
for Remotely Controlled DNA Release and Cancer Cell Targeting”。因此其他來自台
灣的學者都給予我相當大的鼓勵及加油。 
 
 (二) 與會心得： 
此次研討會所發表論文，主要是與奈米生醫科技的研究及發展有關，其範圍相當
的廣泛及重要。本人亦發相當多的時間，聆聽這些方面相關的研究論文發表，吸
收一些別人的研究心得與資訊，以期為未來的研究方向，做進一步的規劃及考
量。在與會中，不僅碰到有一些有興趣的學者，也提出他們的觀點及問題與筆者
深入探討，同時筆者也趁這個機會多看看一些相關其他的研究 Posters，以進一
步瞭解目前這方面的研究趨勢，從這些相互討論中確實能得到一些心得。從這些
所發表的論文及所聽聞的研究內容，可以看出目前或甚至未來在生醫材料的發展
趨勢及重點，將會集中於 Nanostructured Biomaterials、Nanomedicine, Design 
of multifunctional controlled release, Biorecognition and diagnosis 與
Drug delivery system and Tumor treatment，這與本人目前研究的重點相近，
但是若進一步考量台灣的目前特殊環境，在臨床醫學的研究仍相當缺乏，因此若
從短中長期的研究規劃，可以看出，目前在生醫感測(biosensors/biodetectors) 
發展比較快，而近期在奈米生醫及藥物載體與新藥劑的釋放與傳遞等開發，更受
到重視，這可能與政府的生醫科技鑚石啟飛的政策有關，當然未來在組織工程與
再生，也會益形重要。這是我一次參加這個會議的主要目的。另外由於參與此次
盛會的專家學者很多，所以在此種場合之下，除了專程參加會議發表論文之外，
還需要適當地做一些社交的活動，認識一些同樣領域的學者，有時也盡量試著與
一些大師級的學者交談，彼此交換研究心得，並且還可以吸收最新的研究資訊，
對本身的研究工作會有所幫助。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2009/12/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 磁性單晶奈米膠囊結構的製備、材料性質與藥物釋放研究
計畫主持人: 陳三元
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-009-015-MY3 學門領域: 其他 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 奈米級之藥物傳送裝置、製備方法及用途
(英文) DRUG DELIVERY NANODEVICE, ITS PREPARATION METHOD AND USES 
THEREOF
成果歸屬機構
國立交通大學 發明人
(創作人)
陳三元,胡尚秀,劉典謨,郭冠廷
技術說明
(中文) 本發明之主要目的，設計與製備一種具多功能性的藥物奈米載體，除了具有控制
釋放藥物與標靶癌細胞之功能，還可以同步監測藥物釋放的情形。故本研究計畫
基於此創新的研究構想，提出利用藥物載體的製程控制，發展具有磁敏感性的奈
米核殼膠囊結構，將藥物完美的包覆於該奈米膠囊當中，在未加磁場的狀態下，
該奈米膠囊藥物自然釋放量趨近於零，如此可大幅降低高毒性抗癌藥物在體內的
副作用，然而當此奈米膠囊抵達腫瘤位置時，可以利 
用外部的磁場刺激磁奈米載體，控制藥物快速的局部釋放，將大量的抗癌藥物釋
放於腫 
瘤之位置，達到腫瘤治療的效果。此外，利用奈米晶體成長技術，架接具光學特
性的量 
子點於奈米膠囊的表面上，此具光學特性量子點，可以利用其螢光顯影，來追蹤
該奈米 
膠囊於體內的位置，並且搭配磁場的控制下，可監測藥物於定點釋放的情形，可
用來評 
估釋放量對於腫瘤的影響。並且奈米膠囊的表面經由化學表面改質，可帶有標靶
癌細胞 
的分子，在體內中大量提升奈米膠囊進入癌細胞的效率。此奈米複合膠囊搭配外
加磁場 
的控制的結構元件，期望在未來可達到快速有效率的局部釋藥於腫瘤細胞，並同
時於體 
內偵測藥物釋放情形，達到另一個新世代標靶治療的需求。
(英文) A novel core-shell nanosphere which was constructed by a poly-(N-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone) 
(PVP)-modified silica core with an outer layer of single-crystal iron oxide shell was 
designed. The nanosphere showed outstandingrelease-and-zero-release characteristic via 
the addition and removal of an external manipulation of high-frequency magnetic field, 
respectively. Upon magnetic stimulus, this will allow drug eluted or no released in a 
reversible behavior. Further stimulation causes rupturing, i.e., permanent damage, of the 
shell, where drug eluted rapidly and can hardly be ceased. On the other hand, combining 
with fluorescent quantum dots, the nanocarriers can be tracked in the human body. The 
optical properties also can be tunable while applying the magnetic filed for sensing the 
drug release. Drug release rate at on-off operation of AC magnetic fields (hyperthermia 
effects) and the conditions of killing-tumor cells also would be 
investigated.
產業別 醫療器材製造業
技術/產品應用範圍 智慧型藥物載體、生物晶片及核磁共振顯影劑、智慧型藥物釋放系統
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
利用奈米晶體成長技術，將具光學特性及低毒性的量子點，架接於此奈米磁性
藥物載體的表面上，利用此量子點之螢光顯影，來追蹤該奈米膠囊於體內的位
置，並且搭配磁場的控制與量子點之螢光強度的變化，可同時監測藥物於定點
釋放的情形及評估其局部釋放量對於腫瘤細胞的影響。並且利用生物標靶分子
接枝在此奈米單晶藥物載體的表面上，使此奈米載體具有標靶性的功能，以提
升奈米膠囊進入癌細胞的效率，以達到另一個新世代標靶治療的需求。這方面
的研究在國際上受到相當大的重視。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
