 2
具有金屬閘極與高介電係數閘極介電層之奈米元件之製作與特性探討 
 “Fabrication and characterization of nano-devices with metal/high-k gate stack” 
計畫編號：NSC94-2215-E-009-068 
執行期間：94年 8 月 01日 至 95年 7月 31日 
主持人：黃調元 交通大學電子工程系教授 
 
中文摘要 
在本研究中，將探討氟吸附對於具有
HfO2/SiON閘極介電層之 P型金氧半場效電晶
體之影響。使用離子佈值打入氟，藉由之後的
雜質活化將氟擴散進去閘極介電層。研究中發
現，氟的採用幾乎沒有影響到電晶體之基本電
性，如臨界電壓、次臨界斜率、閘極漏電流及
等效氧化層厚度。但是，在固定電壓及溫度劣
化處理之後，對於具有氟吸附的元件，有較少
的介面能態產生及較少的電荷捕捉。此外，本
研究中我們首先證實藉由氟吸附能增強電漿
電荷損害之免疫力。 
關鍵字：電壓溫度不穩定性、氟(F)、二氧化鉿、
電漿電荷損害。 
Abstracts 
Effects of fluorine (F) incorporation on the 
reliabilities of pMOSFETs with HfO2/SiON gate 
stacks have been studied in this work. Fluorine 
was incorporated during the source/drain implant 
step and was diffused into the gate stacks during 
subsequent dopant activation. We found that F 
introduction only negligibly affects the 
fundamental electrical properties of the 
transistors, such as threshold voltage Vth, 
subthreshold swing, gate leakage current, and 
equivalent oxide thickness. In contrast, reduced 
generation rates in interface states and charge 
trapping under constant voltage stress and bias 
temperature stress were observed for the 
fluorine-incorporated split. Moreover, We 
demonstrated for the first time that F 
incorporation could strengthen the immunity 
against plasma charging damage. 
Keywords: Bias temperature instability (BTI), 
fluorine (F), hafnium oxide, plasma charging 
damage. 
Introduction 
Recently, HfO2 has emerged as the leading 
high-k dielectric to replace the conventional 
SiO2. However, a number of pending issues need 
to be resolved before HfO2 can be inducted into 
the mainstream ultra-large-scale integration 
(ULSI) technology. These issues include solving 
mobility degradation and threshold voltage 
instability, as well as reducing the number of 
fixed charges and charge traps [1-4]. Although 
there exist numerous literature reports regarding 
methods to incorporate nitrogen [5, 6] or Si [7, 8] 
into Hf-based films or stacks so as to improve 
the film’s quality, however, to the best of our 
knowledge, the effect of F incorporation on 
HfO2 gate dielectric was seldom addressed [9, 
10]. In this report, fluorine incorporation through 
fluorine implantation into the source/drain 
regions was used to evaluate its impact on the 
constant voltage stress (CVS) instability and 
negative bias temperature instability (NBTI) of 
pMOSFETs with HfO2 gate stacks. Our results 
 4
measurements without inducing extra damage to 
the gate stacks. This step thus allows much 
accurate estimation of the slow trap density 
without the complication due to the interval 
variation between voltage stressing and 
parameter measurement. In other words, the 
precaution allows us to focus on the slow traps 
in the gate stacks in this work. It is clear that the 
F-incorporated sample always shows smaller 
∆Vth than the control counterpart. To further 
gain insights into the degradation mechanism 
during voltage stressing, the interface state 
generation ∆Nit and the increase of effective bulk 
trap density ∆Not are plotted as a function of the 
injection charge density in Fig. 2(b). It should be 
noted that ∆Not was calculated from ∆Vth by 
assuming that the charge was trapped at the 
interface between the dielectric and the substrate. 
Apparently, ∆Not was significantly larger than 
∆Nit, suggesting that the degradation under CVS 
was dominated by the charge trapping in the 
bulk of HfO2 films, rather than the generation of 
interface states, whether fluorine was 
incorporated or not. Moreover, F incorporation 
was found being able to suppress the charge 
trapping in the bulk of HfO2 films. Although 
reduced charge injection during stressing was a 
plausible cause for the observed improvement in 
the F-incorporated split, it contradicted with the 
observation that the improvement became more 
visible with decreasing channel length, as show 
n in Fig. 3. If the improvement seen in 
F-incorporated split was indeed due to reduced 
injection charges, no dependence of the 
improvement on the channel length should be 
expected. Therefore, we concluded that the 
improvement was indeed the result of the F 
incorporation. 
Fig. 4(a) and (b) compares the dependence 
of threshold voltage shift and the interface 
generation, respectively, on injection charge 
density for splits with and without F 
incorporation. The BT stress condition was Vg = 
−3.5 V under 125°C. It can be seen that 
F-incorporated films exhibit NBTI improvement 
similar to fluorine-induced NBTI improvement 
in SiOF case[12,13]. The major degradation of 
NBTI is caused by the positive charge trapping 
in the films rather than the interface generation, 
suggesting that the positive charge trapping is 
not entirely caused by the H+ capturing. 
Therefore, in addition to positive charge caused 
by H species, a significant amount of extra 
trapping centers must be present in the 
HfO2/SiON gate stack. Fluorine atoms seem to 
effectively decorate these trapping centers, 
leading to reduced degradation 
In our process, the photoresist layer that 
remained after metal patterning was stripped 
with O2 plasma in a downstream plasma asher, 
whose configuration and plasma potential 
distribution could be found in [14]. Using 
CHARM-2 wafer sensor, it has been previously 
shown [14] that the potential distribution was 
highly negative and positive at the wafer center 
and edge, respectively. Fig. 5 shows the time 
evolution of the threshold voltage shift and 
interface state generation for the devices with 
area antenna ratios (AARs) of either 1×103 or 6 
× 104, both with and without F incorporation. 
All measurements were performed on devices 
located at the same die location (i.e.,wafer 
center). Fig. 4 shows that the hole trapping in the 
bulk, rather than the interface generation, is the 
preponderant mechanism responsible for the 
degradation. From the Weibull plot of Vth for the 
 6
low-thermal-budget CMOS process,” in 
IEDM Tech. Dig., 2004,pp. 927-930. 
[11] A. Kerber, E. Carter, L. Pantisano, M. 
Rosmeulen, R. Degraeve, G. Groeseneken, H. 
E. Maes, and U. Schwalke, “Charge trapping 
inSiO2/HfO2 gate dielectrics: Comparison 
between charge pumping and pulsed 
ID−VG,” Microelectron. Eng., vol. 72, no. 
1–4, pp. 267–272, Apr. 2004. 
[12] C. H. Liu, M. T. Lee, C. Lin, J. Chen, K. 
Schruefer, J. Brighten, N. Rovedo, T. B. 
Hook, M. V. Khare, S. Huang, C. Wann, T. 
Chen, andT. H. Ning, “Mechanism and 
process dependence of negative bias 
temperature instability (NBTI) for 
pMOSFETs with ultrathin gate dielectrics,” 
in IEDM Tech. Dig., 2001, pp. 861–864. 
[13] Y. Mitani, M. Nagamine, H. Satake, and A. 
Toriumi, “NBTI mechanism in ultra-thin 
gate dielectric-nitrogen-originated 
mechanism in SiON,” in IEDM Tech. Dig., 
2002, pp. 509–512. 
[14] C. C. Chen, H. C. Lin, C. Y. Chang, M. S. 
Liang, C. H. Chien, S. K. Hsien, and T. Y. 
Huang, “Improved immunity to plasma 
damage in ultra thin nitrided oxides,” IEEE 
Electron Device Lett., vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 
15-17, Jan. 2000. 
 
此計畫之論文發表 
1. JECS-152 (11), G799-G803, 2005 
2. JJAP-44 (11), pp.7869-7875, 2005 
3. EDL-27 (4), pp.240-242, 2006 
 
 
 
Fig.1. Typical transfer characteristics of 
pMOSFETs with HfO2 gate stack,both with and 
without fluorine incorporation. 
 
 
 
 
Fig.2. (a) Threshold voltage shift (∆Vth) and (b) 
generation of interface states (∆Nit) and trapping 
charge (∆Not), both plotted in log scale, as a 
function of injection charge density (Vg = −4 V). 
The degradation was dominated by ∆Not, rather 
than ∆Nit. 
 
 
