 
 
 1 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   
□期中進度報告 
 
類軟骨材料的動態摩擦特性研究 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  99－2221－E－151－014－ 
執行期間：  99年 8月 1日至 100年 7月 31日 
 
執行機構及系所：高雄應用科技大學機械系 
 
計畫主持人：蔡立仁 
共同主持人：魏鴻文、江家慶、王詩涵 
計畫參與人員：莊雲晴 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國   100 年  10 月 30 日 
 
 
 
 3 
replacements for human soft tissues. When adjusting the composition of polymer chains and chain 
binding mechanism, the hydrogels can increase their mechanical strength while withstand their 
extra low friction hence they are good candidates for joint or spine soft tissues (like articular 
cartilage) repair. Some hydrogels could be tailored to degrade at certain rate to provide space for the 
growing tissues in the construct hence eliminates the need for a second surgery [1]. Hydrogel 
scaffolds could also be taken as drug carrier to deliver growth factors or other pharmacologics at the 
diseased site to encourage certain cellular responses, such as proliferation or differentiation. All of 
the advantages above indicate the importance of the hydrogel materials in tissue engineering. 
In this research, Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (SHPB) and Modified Torsional Kolsky Bar 
(MTKB) were utilized to study the dynamic behavior of prepared specimens. By changing the 
applied strain rate, the volume ratio vs. pressure curves and stress vs. strain curves were observed to 
describe the compressibility of hydrogels under dynamic deformations. The dynamic shear response 
of thin SiC layers was also studied. 
 
2. Experiment Procedures  
2.1 Experimental Configuration and Setup 
2.1.1 Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (SHPB) 
A Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar was utilized to study the dynamic strength of the PAA hydrogels, 
as illustrated in Fig. 1. It consists of a pressurized gas chamber, a striker, an incident bar, a 
transmitted bar and a specimen assembly. The striker impacts one end of the incident bar and 
generates a compressive stress pulse propagating through the bar into the specimen. This pulse 
reverberates within the specimen, sending a transmitted pulse into the transmitted bar and a 
reflected pulse back into the incident bar. The complete dynamic stress-strain behavior for the 
specimen can be determined from measurements of the incident, reflected and transmitted strain 
signals. In this research, all the bars are made of 22 mm diameter PMMA, and the lengths of the 
incident and transmitted bars are 2 m and 1.5 m, respectively. 
 
 
 
Fig.1: SHPB experiment setup. 
 
2.1.3 Modified Torsional Kolsky Bar (MTKB) 
The dynamic friction behavior between two surfaces could be affected by many criteria: the 
composition of the surfaces, the speed of the surface motions, the roughness of the surfaces, the 
pressure between the surfaces, etc. Hence, the repeatability of dynamic friction experiments was 
 
 
 5 
 
 
Fig. 4: Specimen assembly for MTKB experiments. 
 
2.2 Stress State 
For large impedance between compression bars and specimen and for small specimen 
thickness, a uniform stress state is developed. The volume ratio of the specimen can be determined 
as following: 
∫−=
T
r dtL
C
V
V
0
0
0
0
21 ε         (1) 
In which 0C  stands for the longitudinal wave speed in the compression bars, 0L  represents the 
initial thickness of the specimen, and rε  represents the strain of the reflected wave. The 
hydrostatic pressure for the specimen during the uniform stress state situation can then be 
determined using the transmitted wave data: 
thydro EP εσ ==            (2) 
Where E  represents the elastic modulus of the compression bars and tε  represents the strain 
of the transmitted wave. The dynamic frictional responses could be determined from the measured 
transmitted torsional signals [6]: 
0
0int
( , )
( ) i
i
r
r
erface r
r
r t dr
t
rdr
τ
τ =
∫
∫
           (3) 
int ( )( , ) erface
specimen
T t
r t r
J
τ =            (4)
 
0
1 1(0, ) ( )
2 ( )
t slipT t V d
k t
α
τ ξ ξ
π ξ
= ⋅
−∫          
(5)
 
 
3. Materials  
Acrylic acid, Ammonium peroxodisulfate, methylenebisacrylamide, and Pluronic were utilized 
to produce the low friction, high strength hydrogel specimens [7]. This Pluronic and PAA bonded 
hydrogel material possess some special gelation conditions. The gelation took place only when the 
pH value of the solution is greater than 4.75, and when its temperature is greater than 7oC. It is 
observed that the hydrogel structure became quite porous after it has fully absorbed liquid. A set of 
thin SiC layer materials was also studied using the MTKB facility. The SiC layers were 
electroplated on to Al7075 alloys varying current densities as well as current duration. The layer 
thickness of the applied SiC material in this research range from 1.5 to 25 um, and the surface 
roughness was about 0.5 um. Fig.5 shows the SEM pictures of SiC coatings with different coating 
durations. For pictures 5(a) to 5(e), the coating interval increased from 10 minutes to 50 minutes. 
 
 
 7 
in Figure 7. It does not exhibit perfect linear behavior when the hydrostatic compression increased. 
However, from this series of experiments we could estimate the bulk modulus of 3.37%, 6.75%, 
and 13.5% hydrogels were 2.04, 1.08, and 3.44 MPa, respectively, when the applied strain rates 
were between 100~300s-1. Higher compression pulse experiments concluded that the dynamic 
strength of the proposed hydrogel material could be as high as 14MPa. 
The dynamic friction experiments of SiC thin films were performed using MTKB facility. 
Figure 8 shows the stable torque loading applied during a series of friction experiments. The 
dynamic coefficient of frictions tends to increase with increasing current density as shown in Figure 
9. The effect of surface roughness induced coefficient of friction changes needs to be further 
explored. 
      
  
Fig.6 Stress vs strain data for 6.75% hydrogel 
specimens at different strain rates. 
Fig.7 Volumetric strain vs. pressure data for 
3.37%, 6.75%, and 13.5% hydrogels. 
 
  
Fig. 8: Torque vs. Time curves for experiments 
with different current density 
Fig.9: The dynamic friction coefficient vs. slip 
distance curve for specimens with different 
current density 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期：100年 7月10
                                 
日 
一、參加會議經過 
International Symposium of Reactivity of Solids (ISRS)為一歷史悠久的非營利國際性學術會議，
從1948開始平均每四年一次會議，針對各種固體材料的反應現象進行解析及討論。ISRS是由各
界的傑出研究學者進行規劃籌備的會議，今年的會議由Institute de Chimie de la Matiere 
Condensee de Bordeaux (ICMCB)主辦, 在法國的波爾多大學舉行。今年的研究主題包括: Point 
Defects and Reactivity of Solids，Reactivity and nanomaterials，Reactivity and Catalysis，Reactivity 
of Materials for Energy and Environment ，Reactivity and composite materials ，Functional Materials 
for Sustainable Energy Systems，Reactivity of Solids in the Geologic and Planetary Environment，
Novel materials and new synthesis routes ，Chemistry in unconventional media，Advances in 
Characterization of Reacting Solids ，等等。此次的ISRS會議共有來自全球十幾個國家上百篇的
投稿，筆者以"Function, defects and dynamic response of porcine meniscus" 為題海報發表，偏重
在多孔性生物固體材料的動態性質研討。 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E－151－014－ 
計畫名稱 類軟骨材料的動態摩擦特性研究 
出國人員
姓名 
蔡立仁 
服務機構
及職稱 
高雄應用科技大學機械系 
會議時間 
100年 6月 27日
至 
100年 7月 1日 
會議地點 
法國波爾多 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文)17th International Symposium on Reactivity of Solids 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Function, defects and dynamic response of porcine meniscus 
二、與會心得 
感謝國科會計畫補助出席國際會議經費，讓我能參與每四年一次的International Symposium 
of Reactivity of Solids，此次會議期間與各國學者專家共聚一堂，能夠將研究成果在此次會議中
提出並與各國學者討論及交換意見，實為非常寶貴的收穫。會後更和許多台灣來的教授進行討
論，獲益良多。許多邀請演講的專家都是一時之選，足見會議籌辦單位的用心。 
 
三、建議 
感謝國科會補助使我得以赴法國參與此一盛會，讓研究成果得以發表及交流。國科會鼓勵
老師參加國際研討會，並於經費上予以支持，可讓我們了解到各國在相關研究領域的進展，亦
可增加研究人員的國際觀，值得大力推廣。另外本次參加 ISRS研討會帶回的相關資訊，將可作
為我們未來研究發展方向的參考，對本計畫有相當的助益。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 會議議程一冊 
2. 會議論文集光碟一份 
3. 聯絡資料(包含相近研究領域之名片交換) 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 類軟骨材料的動態摩擦特性研究
計畫主持人: 蔡立仁
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-151-014- 學門領域: 疲勞與損壞
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
指導學生參加「2010 精微模造技術應用於生醫元件及系統開發與教學建構計畫
_成果發表技專題競賽」以 ’PAA水膠之動態機械性質研究’ 榮獲分組第二名。
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
