摘要 
本研究是以非對稱式的單極天線為主架構，結合行動電話的基板所引申出的地線結構，形
成平橫式的天線架構，再利用同軸電纜線的饋線方式產生電容效應來實線寬頻的效能。平
橫式的天線結構，可以減少天線電流在行動電話基板上的彙集，有助於天線輻射場型的集
中，既可以克服人體的效應又可以解決 HAC 的問題。天線的雛型為長：40mm；寬：5mm；
高：6mm，在折返損失小於-10dB 的條件下，可以涵蓋 CDMA (824-894 MHz)、GSM (880-960 
MHz)、DCS (1710-1880 MHz)、PCS (1850-1990 MHz) and WCDMA (1920-2170 MHz)等五頻
的頻段。實驗的結果將被用來驗證學理的正確性。 
關鍵詞:頻寬、平橫式的天線架構、HAC、五頻、人體的效應 
 
Abstract 
Metal-wire-cutting asymmetric U-type monopole antenna (AUMA) fed by mini-coaxial cable 
jointly with a thin printed ground-line for bandwidth enhancement is proposed. The balance 
circuit structure was introduced to solve the human body effect and hearing aid compatibility 
(HAC) problems. A prototype of the proposed antenna with 40 mm in length, 6 mm in height and 
5 mm in width has been fabricated and experimentally investigated. Both impedance and 
radiation characteristics of this antenna are studied. Experimental results indicate that a Return 
Loss≤-10dB bandwidth cover penta-band: CDMA (824-894 MHz), GSM (880-960 MHz), DCS 
(1710-1880 MHz), PCS (1850-1990 MHz) and WCDMA (1920-2170 MHz) bands is 
demonstrated. Experimental results are shown to verify the validity of theoretical work. 
Keywords: bandwidth, balance circuit structure, HAC, penta-band, human body effect 
 
 
 
前言 
無線通訊產業不斷快速成長，產品也持續推陳出新，使用電子產品時所發生的電磁場對人
體傷害的問題日益受重視，特別是行動電話所產生的電磁危害已成為全球各大通訊廠在研發新一
代通訊產品的考量重點，世界各國亦紛紛制訂電磁輻射安全限值來加以規範 。目前，依據行動
電話的使用方式，所訂定的人體電磁能比吸收率(SAR)限值不得大於 1.6W/Kg(以 1g 量測)
或 2W/Kg(以 10g 量測)。除此之外，各大通訊廠基於成本的考量，產品的相關主被動元件也紛紛
降低買價或尋求替代品，其中，助聽器的部份，傳統的元件是麥克風或擴音器，現在是以成本較低
的電信線圈(Telecoil, T-coil)來取代。T-coil 是電路的一部份，是一種線圈的型態，它會耦合行動
電話電路板上的電磁輻射能量，並加以放大，而造成不必要的電磁干擾或危害。目前的法
規是以耦合輻射能量來定義，共分為 M1、M2、M3 與 M4 四個能量等級；其中 M3 與 M4
能量等級是屬於通過法規的能量限值，換言之，耦合輻射能量等級就是表示電子助聽器所
裝設的 T-coil 能夠相容於行動電話電路(包含天線在內)的狀況 (Hearing Aid Compatibility, 
HAC)。本計畫提出利用行動電話的機板與天線的型式之相對關係，以改變天線的輻射場型來
改善行動電話的相關問題(例如:改善及降低 SAR 與 HAC 的值)，並且保有行動電話的通訊
效能。 
研究目的: 
在不影響行動電話的通訊效能(例如:有效等向性輻射功率(EIRP)及接收靈敏度(Sensitivity))
的前題下，利用行動電話的機板的接地效應來改變天線的輻射場型，並研發出寬頻的天線
架構，以克服人體(頭與手)對天線所造成的頻率偏移效應。本計畫的主體訴求是，HAC 的
metal-wire-cutting AUMA fed by mini-coaxial cable jointly with a thin printed ground-line 
structure which is printed on a 1.6mm-thick FR4 glass epoxy substrate (the relative permittivity is 
4.3). The feed and ground points are connected to a 50Ω RG-178 coaxial-cable (the length is 
10cm) with a SMA connector. The dimension of proposed AUMA is a: 38mm, b: 6mm and c: 
40mm. The radius (Ø) and length (ℓ) of feeding mini-coaxial cable is 1.13mm and 46mm, which 
is put upon the AUMA to be a loading element as shown in Fig. 1. For comparison, the geometry 
of a conventional bended monopole antenna (denoted as a No.1 reference antenna in this study), 
the back-side of reference antenna without printed ground-line. The effect of loading element will 
reduce the electrical length of monopole antenna and increase the lower- and upper- operating 
bandwidth. The resonant mode of total shape (a + b + c) is designed to occur at about 892 MHz, 
and the dimension a is designed to resonate at about 1970 MHz. The length of radiating elements 
can be determined from the quarter-wave length at the resonant frequencies. In Fig. 1, the 
dimension s is the space between asymmetric U-type monopole trace, w is the width of printed 
thin ground-line that is behind the AUMA and d is the space between AUMA and ground-plane; 
note that the sizes of these dimensions are not identical. By selecting appropriate dimensions (s, 
w, d) of the antenna structure, good impedance matching of the proposed antenna can be 
obtained across an extended bandwidth. The printed ground-line structure is behind the AUMA to 
be a parasitical element as shown in Fig. 1, the impedance matching at the upper operating band 
can be tuned by this structure, which was also found to be effective in obtaining a wider 
impedance bandwidth in the antenna’s lower operating band. As a “good” embedded antenna, it 
should not only meet the technical specifications like bandwidth, efficiency, gain, etc., but also 
meet the requirements like compact, light weight, low cost, attractive appearance and easy to 
fabricate. The antenna should be small in order to be mounted in the limited space provided by 
the mobile handsets. The desired radiation pattern should be primarily omni-directional in the 
horizontal plane. In addition, it should be noted that the ground-plane dimension could also affect 
the resonant frequency and operating bandwidth of the lower operating band. Use of the handset 
body as a part of the radiator is beneficial particularly when a small antenna element is used. It 
enhances the handset antenna performance as the handset body is usually larger than the antenna 
element and effectively enlarges the antenna dimensions so that the gain and the bandwidth of the 
antenna system are increased [7]. Thus the ground-plane dimension should also be taken into 
account in determining the proper parameters of the proposed design to achieve the desired band 
operation. 
 
 
 
-35
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
700 900 1100 1300 1500 1700 1900 2100
Frequency [MHz]
R
et
ur
n 
Lo
ss
 [d
B]
V.S.W.R  2:1
Further, the impedance bandwidth does not vary linearly variation corresponding with the 
ground-line size because of the variation of impedance matching is nonlinearly. In general, when 
the ground-trace length equals to the quarter-wavelength of the lower operating band, a wide 
impedance bandwidth will be obtained.  
B. Effect of using mini-coaxial feeding-cable  
According to the above analyses, it is obvious that the bended monopole antenna is the main 
radiating element for lower and upper operating band. The bended monopole antenna is designed 
jointly with the printed thin ground-line will increase the lower operating bandwidth, but that also 
causes the relative low (high) operating frequency to shift to high (low) frequency, and the upper 
operating bandwidth is also not enough to meet the requirements of mobile handset. Hence, the 
proposed antenna based on the No. 2 reference antenna, using mini-coaxial feeding cable to feed 
at the corner of bended monopole and the cable was set upon the bended monopole antenna trace. 
The mini-coaxial feeding cable masks part of antenna area, to introduce additional capacitance, 
making it easy to achieve wide bandwidth for the lower and upper operating band. Figure 5 
shows the measured Return Loss plot of the proposed antenna compares with the No. 2 antenna. 
The bandwidth of proposed antenna in lower operating band is nearly three times that of the No. 
2 antenna, and the upper operating bandwidth is also increased. This bandwidth enhancement is 
obtained mainly through the loading element effect of the mini-coaxial feeding cable.  
C.  Radiation characteristics of proposed antenna  
Typical measured radiation patterns of the proposed antenna and the No. 1 antenna in lower- 
and upper-operating band are plotted in Fig. 6 and Fig. 7. From these results, it is seen that the 
frequencies across the impedance bandwidths of the proposed antenna and the No. 1 antenna 
have same polarization planes and similar broadside radiation patterns. It was also found that the 
co- and cross-polarization radiation gains of the proposed antenna are smaller than the No. 1 
antenna, good isolation is observed. The measurement results of the human’s hand effect on the 
antenna performance are shown in Fig. 8. The comparison results show the proposed antenna 
leads a small distortion in the antenna radiation efficiency; this is probably because the proposed 
antenna is a balance system. The printed thin ground-line is like a sleeve-balun for AUMA, 
which will reduce both the current flow on the ground-plane and the variation in the radiation 
pattern. The HAC measurement results on 850MHz are also shown in Fig. 9. The proposed 
antenna was implemented on the physical mobile phone environment, good antenna performance 
is evaluated. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. The Return Loss against frequency results of proposed antenna. 
 
-35
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
700 900 1100 1300 1500 1700 1900 2100
Frequency [MHz]
R
et
ur
n 
Lo
ss
 [d
B]
No. 2 Reference Antenna
Proposed Antenna
V.S.W.R  2:1
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
824 880 960 1710 1800 1880 1920 2170
Frequence [MHz]
3D
 A
nt
en
na
 E
ff
ic
ie
nc
y 
[%
]
Proposed Antenna
No. 1 Reference Antenna
Proposed Antenna with Hand
No. 1 Reference Antenna with Hand
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. The Return Loss against frequency results of No. 2 antenna compares with proposed 
antenna. 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 6. Measured radiation patterns of the proposed antenna (—) compares with No. 1 antenna 
(---) at 960 MHz. “-×- co-pol.” “-▲- cross-pol.” (a) E-plane (xy-plane) pattern. (b) H-plane 
(zx-plane) pattern. 
 
 
 
                 
 
 
  (a)                            (b) 
Fig. 7. Measured radiation patterns of the proposed antenna (—) compares with No. 1 antenna 
(---) at 1880 MHz. “-×- co-pol.” “-▲- cross-pol.” (a) E-plane (xy-plane) pattern. (b) 
H-plane (zx-plane) pattern. 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8. The effect of the human’s hand on the antenna performance. 
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
0 -40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
0180
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
0
180
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
0
for handsets in the vicinity of a human head or hand,” IEE Proc.-Microw. Antennas 
Propagat., vol. 149, pp. 85-91, 2002. 
計畫成果自評: 
本研究是在描述如何利用行動電話基板上的接地效應，結合天線的阻抗特性，以達到在不
影響行動電話的通訊效能(例如:有效等向性輻射功率(EIRP)及接收靈敏度(Sensitivity))
的條件下，利用天線的寬頻特性及平橫電路的效應來降低HAC的能量位階。從計畫的實驗成
果顯示，平橫式的天線結構，可以減少天線電流在行動電話基板上的彙集，有助於天線輻
射場型的集中，既可以克服人體的效應又可以解決SAR與HAC的問題。本研究之執行進度皆
與提案之初的期程相符，研究成效亦達設定之目標。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Experimental study of estimating SAR values for mobile phone applications 
I-Fong Chen, Chia-Mei Peng*, Ching-Chih Hung  
Institute of C.C.E, Jin-Wen University of Science and Technology, Taiwan, R.O.C 
 
Abstract 
A novel method is presented that accurately and quickly estimates the peak 1-g or 10-g averaged specific 
absorption rate (SAR) in a human phantom when exposed to a mobile handset, based on experimental 
studies. The accuracy of the algorithm has been demonstrated across different systems (CDMA, GSM, 
DCS, PCS and WCDMA) and for both 1-g and 10-g averaged SAR using a sample of 96 SAR 
measurements from 4 type mobile handsets. For the sample size studied, the root-mean-squared errors of 
the algorithm are 17% and 15% for 1-g and 10-g averaged SAR, respectively.  
1. Introduction 
Wireless communications continue to enjoy exponential growth in the mobile handset. The performance 
test (e.g., TRP, TIS and Efficiency) and conformance test (e.g., SAR) of mobile phones are also requested. 
Specific absorption rate (SAR) is a metric that quantifies the exposure of a person to RF energy from 
wireless transmitters [1-2]. Some national regulatory agencies limit RF exposure and require that the peak 
mass-averaged SAR (averaged over a 1-g or 10-g mass of tissue) due to a mobile handset is evaluated in 
order to demonstrate compliance with their rules prior to equipment authorization or use. To measure SAR 
from a mobile handset, the handset is placed against a human-shaped phantom and the electric field is 
scanned inside the phantom, which is filled with a liquid whose dielectric properties approximate those of 
living tissue. The measurement of SAR from mobile handsets has recently been standardized [1-2]. An 
initial coarse two-dimensional (2-D) scan (area scan) is performed in the phantom liquid on a surface at a 
fixed distance away from the phantom surface. The area scan covers the projection of the handset. From 
the area scan, the location of maximum SAR is found. At this location, a higher resolution 
three-dimensional (3-D) scan (zoom scan) is performed, and post-processing is used to determine the peak 
mass-averaged SAR. Scanning of the electric field is performed by moving an electric-field probe 
throughout the liquid with the aid of a robot or similar positioning equipment. The SAR equation as 
follows: 
ρσ
2E
SAR =  (mW/g).                  (1) 
Where σ is conductivity of the tissue (S/m), ρ is mass density of the tissue (kg/m³) and E is the 
root-mean-squared electric field strength (V/m). 
This scanning is time consuming. The time spent to perform one complete measurement (area and zoom 
scan) is typically on the order of half an hour, and over 100 measurements may be needed for full SAR 
compliance evaluation, given the combinations of transmit frequency bands and modes, device positions 
against the body and left- and right-hand sides of head phantoms, handset configurations (e.g., extended 
and retracted antennas), accessories, etc. Therefore, a faster means of estimating the peak mass-averaged 
SAR is very desirable. This paper proposes a robust algorithm for estimating the peak mass-averaged SAR 
from a 3-D talking position far field testing. The algorithm requires only the measurement value of the 
TRP (Total isotropic Radiation Power) of mobile handsets in free space and with human head (e.g., SAM 
head). The accuracy of the algorithm has been demonstrated across different systems (CDMA, GSM, DCS, 
PCS and WCDMA) and for both 1-g and 10-g averaged SAR using a sample of 96 SAR measurements 
from 4 type mobile handsets. The proposed algorithm will be shown to have the well agreement with the 
measurement results. The testing time also has been pointed out. Then we use Eq. (2) to calculate the 
worst case of SAR value. The computational results are shown in Table IV. The calculation results have 
well agreement with the measurement results, but the testing time can be saved at least about 2 hours. 
4. Conclusions 
An algorithm has been presented that accurately and more quickly estimates the peak 1-g or 10-g averaged 
SAR in a human phantom from mobile phone handsets. The accuracy of the algorithm has been 
demonstrated across a broad band range (CDMA-WCDMA) and for both 1-g and 10-g averaged SAR 
using a sample of 96 SAR measurements from 4 type mobile handsets. For the sample size studied, the 
root-mean-squared errors of the algorithm are 17% and 15% for 1-g and 10-g averaged SAR, respectively. 
These errors are small compared to the total SAR measurement uncertainty. 
Table III. Measurement Results for 4 type mobile handsets. 
 NO.1 NO.2 NO.3 NO.4 
SAR1g (mW/g) 1.31 1.25 1.04 1.08 
SAR10g (mW/g) 0.88 0.81 0.65 0.77 
TRP(dBm) in free space 29.42 28.21 30.03 21.16 
TRP(dBm) with SAM 25.15 25.44 24.26 17.2 
Testing time (hour) 6.5 6.5 9.5 3.5 
Table IV. Calculation Results for 4 type mobile handsets. 
 NO.1 NO.2 NO.3 NO.4 
ΔF (mW) 2.67 1.98 3.77 2.48 
SAR1g (mW/g) 1.3 1.39 0.9 1.1 
SAR10g (mW/g) 0.87 0.93 0.6 0.73 
Testing time (hour) 3 3 4.5 1.5 
References 
[1] IEEE Recommended Practice for Determining the Peak Spatial-Average Specific Absorption Rate 
(SAR) in the Human Head From Wireless Communications Devices: Measurement Techniques, IEEE 
Standard 15282003, 2003.  
[2] Basic Standard for the Measurement of Specific Absorption Rate Related to Human Exposure to 
Electromagnetic Fields From Mobile Phones (300 MHz–3 GHz), CENELEC EN 50361 : 2001, 2001. 
[3] Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association (CTIA) Certification Program, 2001. 
 
 
The investigation of GROUND-PLANE EFFECT of printed MONOPOLE antenna by GFM 
analysis 
Chia-Mei Peng*, I-Fong Chen and Ching-Chih Hung 
Institute of C.C.E, Jin-Wen University of Science and Technology, Taiwan, R.O.C 
 
Abstract 
In this paper presents an equivalent circuit structure, based on Gaussian filter model (GFM) to study the 
effect of finite size ground-plane of printed monopole antenna. The printed ground-plane versus monopole 
antenna, it should be regarded as a planar radiator rather than a ground-plane. We use Gaussian filter 
structure to model the variation of resonant frequency and impedance bandwidth that caused by imperfect 
ground, and the Thevenin methods to analyze the circuit. The quantitative values of inductance and 
capacitance of imperfect ground are addressed thoroughly in this paper. Simulated data are presented to 
confirm the results of numerical computations. 
 
1.  Introduction 
The ground-plane size of printed circuit boards (PCBs) is one of the roots of antenna’s bandwidth; hence, 
based on the environment scenario of antenna’s location, properly designed antenna structure combines 
with ground-plane can achieve the bandwidth requirement of wireless devices. Monopole antenna finds 
many applications in wireless communication. Some studies on monopole antenna design demonstrated 
that the ground-plane acts an image-plane; the plus- and minus-charges are arranged on line contributing 
to equivalent dipole. Ideal models such as the thin quarter-wavelength vertical antenna over a perfectly 
conducting ground will predict only the current distribution along the antenna. Therefore, the current 
distribution on the edge of ground-plane is neglected discussion. In fact, the geometry of ground- plane 
will impact the resonant frequency, impedance bandwidth and radiation pattern. The reactance of 
imperfect ground is a significant component. The equivalent circuit for antenna with imperfect ground has 
risen interesting. Some studies on the equivalent circuit of antenna such as parallel RLC circuit [1-2] and 
Transformer with 2nd shunt resonance circuit [3] are well known methods, but those methods based on 
transmission-line theory just suitable for analyzing patch antenna or slot antenna, that are not appropriate 
for modeling monopole antenna. In this paper, we present using the Gaussian filter structure to construct 
the equivalent circuit of monopole antenna with imperfect ground. Monopole antenna is a one-port device, 
based on the circuit theory we know any one-port network can be converted to Thevenin equivalent circuit. 
The transfer function can be derived from the equivalent circuit, and the frequency response also can be 
obtained. The Gaussian filter applicable to monopole antennas is used to model imperfect ground; the 
impedance bandwidth of this structure is discussed here. Finally, simulation results are presented good 
agreement with analytical estimation results. The far field radiated pattern of printed monopole is also be 
deeply impacted by the ground-plane size of antenna, we will continue to discuss this topic in feature 
research. 
 
2.  Building models in Gaussian filter structure 
The nature of frequency response of antenna is similar to band-pass filter. The definition of Gaussian filter 
is a filter having a response curve (magnitude versus frequency) that approximates an ideal Gaussian 
curve, as shown in Fig. 1.The Gaussian filter has at this state proved to be the most promising candidate 
due to its frequency response is the same with antenna. As the impedance bandwidth of antenna is 
interested more and more, the size of ground-plane of antenna has to be taken into account in analyzing 
transfer function in an equivalent circuit. The optimal one order GFM is also shown in Fig. 1. In the circuit 
model, the characteristic of imperfect ground is regarded as reactance; hence, the inductance and 
capacitance of this structure is varied with the ground-plane size. In order to make the model valid for a 
wide range of frequencies, the inductance and capacitance of monopole antenna combine with imperfect 
ground must be analyzed to obtain quantitative values (neglecting skin effect). By Thevenin theory, we 
derive the equations relating the input and output at two ends of circuit. For harmonic time dependence 
( jwS = ), we then have 
1)()(
)(
)( 2 +++== LS
L
RRSCLCS
SCR
SSV
SLVSH                               (1) 
,where )(SH  is the transfer function of Gaussian filter, SR  and LR  are the input- and 
output-resistance of circuit (usually the nominal impedance is 50Ω, SR = LR =50Ω ), L  and C are the 
   
4.  Computational results 
In this section, we will elaborate the computational result of presented study structure that has been 
mentioned in section 2. The general specifications of printed monopole antenna structure are listed as 
follows: (a). The dielectric constant rε  of substrate board is 4.3. The copper thickness t is 0.0356mm and 
the board thickness h is 1.52mm. (b). The operating frequency is 940 MHz. (c). The monopole size: 
mmLS 64=  and mmWS 2= . (d). The ground-plane size: mmLG 64=  and mmWG 80= . For the 
monopole antenna configuration, monopole and ground-plane are on opposite sides of the board, as shown 
in Fig. 2(a). Assume the monopole is on the center of ground-plane, the inductance is 3.56 nH and the 
capacitance is 15.9 pF . The computing frequency response is shown in Fig. 3.  
 
Fig. 3.  The frequency response of computational result for Gaussian filter model. 
 
The reflection coefficient )(SΓ is derived as below:   
)]()()(41[)( SHSHRRS LS −−=Γ .                                 (2) 
The return loss of Gaussian filter can be derived from Eq. (2), and the diagram is shown in Fig. 4. 
The simulated return loss curve of the proposed monopole antenna (by Ansoft HFSS 8.0) is also 
shown in Fig. 4. There are good agreements between the simulated and computed return loss results. 
The concept of using GFM to be the equivalent circuit of monopole antenna has been successfully 
verified. 
 
Fig. 4.  The return loss against frequency results. (a) The computed (…) results of Gaussian filter 
model. (b) The simulated (─) results of proposed antenna. 
5.  Conclusion 
In this paper, a precise circuit model and the analysis methods for calculating the frequency response due 
to imperfect ground were presented. The quantitative values of inductance and capacitance are dictated by 
physical size, geometry and length of ground-plane. The GFM analysis method has been successful used 
to investigate the effect of imperfect ground on impedance bandwidth of antenna. Numerical computation 
values are in good agreement with simulation results.  
國外出差報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96－2221－E－228－001－ 
計畫名稱 電子助聽器與行動電話之電磁相互干擾特性研究與解決方案 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳一鋒 
景文科技大學電子系 教授 
會議時間地點 
時間: 97 年 7 月 5 日~7 月 12 日 
地點: San Diego, California, USA 
會議名稱 2008 IEEE AP-S International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and 2008 USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meeting 
發表論文題目 Experimental Study of Estimating SAR Values for Mobile Phone Applications 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本次赴美國聖地牙哥參與 2008 IEEE AP-S International Symposium on Antennas and 
Propagation and 2008 USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meeting，共計 7天。去程是由臺
灣飛舊金山，再開車到聖地牙哥；回程是由聖地牙哥轉洛山磯飛回臺灣。 
 
二、與會心得 
除了論文的發表外,亦在會場上聆聽了世界各國的學者專家的研究成果,學習到更多的新
的研究方法及研究範疇,受益良多。其中,RFID、Meta Material 及 Small Antenna 等題目,
對於現行以 OEM 工業為主的臺灣,有莫大的影響性,參與此次的研討會,亦促使本人將更
致力於相關課題的開發與研究。未來,會將所學習到的新的研究方法融入現行的研究中,
並積極在國際場合發表,以使研究成果能夠更精進。 
 
三、經費使用 
    本次赴美國參與國際會議的經費，共申請兩個單位的補助： 
(一) 國科會: 5 萬 5 仟元，支付機票費及膳雜費。 
(二) 景文科技大學：2 萬 4 仟元，支付註冊費及住宿費。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96－2221－E－228－001－ 
計畫名稱 電子助聽器與行動電話之電磁相互干擾特性研究與解決方案 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳一鋒 
景文科技大學電子系 教授 
會議時間地點 
時間: 97 年 7 月 5 日~7 月 12 日 
地點: San Diego, California, USA 
會議名稱 2008 IEEE AP-S International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and 2008 USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meeting 
發表論文題目 Experimental Study of Estimating SAR Values for Mobile Phone Applications 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本篇論文是以 Poster 的方式來發表,研究成果是以實驗驗證的方式提出快速測試手機 SAR
的方法,以節省研發測試時間為論述主軸,並提出有效的實測結果來驗證學理,這樣的方
法也獲得多數與會學者的認同與討論。 
 
二、與會心得 
除了論文的發表外,亦在會場上聆聽了世界各國的學者專家的研究成果,學習到更多的新
的研究方法及研究範疇,受益良多。其中,RFID、Meta Material 及 Small Antenna 等題目,
對於現行以 OEM 工業為主的臺灣,有莫大的影響性,參與此次的研討會,亦促使本人將更
致力於相關課題的開發與研究。未來,會將所學習到的新的研究方法融入現行的研究中,
並積極在國際場合發表,以使研究成果能夠更精進。 
 
發表的論文如附件: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mobile handsets. The proposed algorithm will be shown to have the well agreement with the standard 
method of [1]. 
2. Methodology 
To base on the CTIA (Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association) testing procedure [3] to measure 
TRP value of mobile handsets in free space and talking position. The different value of TRP between free 
space and talking position is defined as the loss-energy (ΔF, mW) that was assumed to be absorbed by human 
head. By experimental studies, we measure three items of mobile phone: TRP, TRP with SAM and SAR to 
obtain the relationship between ΔF and SAR, the sampling data over one hundred mobile phones. We 
conclude one universal formula as follows: 
KFSAR )(Δ≈ .                        (2) 
Where K is a function of ΔF, which is also the transformation factor of evaluating SAR. In our experiments, 
4 type mobile handsets were used to verify the proposed computational equation. The 4 type mobile handsets 
are bar- and clamshell-type phone with internal and external antenna, respectively. K is varied with mobile 
phone type. 
)@(7
10
F
F
FK
Δ−Δ
Δ−=  .                         (3) 
Where @ is mobile phone type factor, as shown in Table I. The Eq. (2) is a general formula for peak 1-g 
averaged SAR. The 1-g averaged SAR is approximately 1.5 times to the 10-g averaged SAR. 
3. Experimental study and discussion 
The measurement procedure is based on the CTIA testing regulation. The measurement of mobile phone was 
be set in free space and talking position. In this paper, we use 4 type mobile handsets to be the device under 
test (DUT), as Table II list. The first, we use the DASY 4 measurement system follow the standard [2] to do 
the compliance testing. The time spent to perform one complete measurement is typically 1.5 hours per band 
for SAR. The TRP testing in free space and talking position are also needed for mobile phone compliance 
evaluation. The TRP testing time is 45 minutes per band. The measurement results for the 4 type mobile 
handsets are shown in Table III.  
Table I. Mobile phone type factor “@”.  
 Internal-antenna External-antenna 
Bar-type @=0.7 @=1.4 
Clamshell-type @=0.1 @=0.35 
Table II. Type of mobile handsets. 
NO. 1 Bar-type mobile phone with external antenna. (GSM and DCS) 
NO. 2 Bar-type mobile phone with internal antenna. (GSM and DCS) 
NO. 3 Clamshell-type mobile phone with external antenna. (GSM, DCS and WCDMA) 
NO. 4 Clamshell-type mobile phone with internal antenna. (CDMA) 
We just show the value of TRP and TRP with SAM which existing the maximum difference (ΔF) from the 
measurement results. The testing time also has been pointed out. Then we use Eq. (2) to calculate the worst 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96－2221－E－228－001－ 
計畫名稱 電子助聽器與行動電話之電磁相互干擾特性研究與解決方案 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
彭嘉美 
景文科技大學電子系 助理教授 
會議時間地點 
時間: 97 年 7 月 5 日~7 月 12 日 
地點: San Diego, California, USA 
會議名稱 2008 IEEE AP-S International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and 2008 USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meeting 
發表論文題目 The Investigation of Ground-Plane Effect of Printed Monopole Antenna by GFM Analysis 
 
三、參加會議經過 
本篇論文是以 Oral 的方式來發表,研究成果是從手機的基板尺寸會影響天線的輻射場型
的觀點,著手研究,並以量化的測試結果綜整成等效電路概念,最後利用高斯濾波器的電
路為原始模型,再加諸以天線參數來進行分析,這樣的方法在會議場上獲得了多數與會學
者的認同及寶貴的建議。。 
 
四、與會心得 
1.除了論文的發表外,亦在會場上吸收了諸多國際學者專家的寶貴心得與知識,也曾加了
兩位參與者的國際交流經驗,拓展研究範疇的視野,受益良多。 
2.瞭解世界各國的學者先進的研究方向，也有機會一賭大師風範。 
 
發表的論文如附件: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
frequencies, by substituting jwS =  into the Eq. (1), hence, we can get the frequency response. The general 
diagram of frequency response of Gaussian filter is the same with Fig. 1. 
In this Gaussian filter circuit model, all the per-unit parameters such as L  and C  can be obtained under 
the TEM assumption, just like the traditional transmission-line model does. Hence, we also take into account 
the mechanism that introduces the imperfect ground in our model. In particular, we use GFM to obtain the 
frequency response. The impedance bandwidth is then obtained from the relevant values of frequency 
response. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1.  The ideal Gaussian curve and the optimal one order Gaussian filter model. 
 
3.  Net reactance of imperfect ground 
Since the imperfect ground will impact the resonant frequency, impedance bandwidth and radiation pattern of 
antenna, therefore, an understanding of the net reactance is imperative to analyze the antenna combine 
imperfect ground. Here, we employ monopole antenna to proceed the analysis of reactance of imperfect 
ground, as shown in Fig. 2(a), the monopole and ground-plane are in the opposite side. Where t  is the 
thickness of monopole strip, rε  is the relative dielectric constant of substrate, h  is the thickness of PCBs, 
SL  and SW  are the length and width of monopole, GL  and GW  are the length and width of ground-plane. 
The approximate closed-form equations for the per-unit-length parameters of external inductance and 
capacitance of monopole antenna combine with imperfect ground can be computed by using numerical 
methods such as finite-difference method and others. We employ the technique presented by Reinmut K. 
Hoffmann [4]. Basically, there are three traces current distribution on the presented study structure, one is on 
the monopole, and the others are on the ground-plane to separate two sides from monopole. We try to use the 
simulated result of current distribution of printed monopole to explain this phenomenon, as also shown in Fig. 
2(b). The total width of ground-plane 21 GGG WWW += , then we can obtain the two side inductance of 
ground-plane 1GroundL  and 2GroundL , the totally inductance of ground-plane is 21 // GroundGroundGround LLL = . The 
inductance of monopole combine with imperfect ground is GroundMonopole LLL //= . The capacitance is the ratio 
of the charge stored on a strip of infinitesimal length to transverse voltage [5].  
Ground plane
t
WG
LG
Feeding point
WG'
Monopole
Ws
d
Ls
 
             (a)                         (b) 
Fig. 2. (a) The proposed studied monopole antenna structure.  
