ii 
 
中文摘要 
 
本計畫著力於整合行動通訊網路與數位家庭網路間多媒體內容與串流服務，提出「行動群組通訊
系統平台」與「使用者主導性多媒體內容傳輸架構」。 
行動群組通訊系統平台之設計，考量新型態行動通訊設備支援 IP 通訊與 GPS 定位能力，使用者能
透過行動手持設備無所不在、隨時隨地的與其他行動使用者連結。因此，我們的研究基於新型態網路
應用之發展，設計行動群組定位、位置追蹤與訊息傳遞之系統平台，所提的各項機制，不受限於下層
網路系統，完全執行於 IP 網路之上，該平台軟件可直接應用於現有消費性行動通訊裝置中，支援各類
新穎服務發展之所需。 
再者，現有高階行動通訊裝置多配備有 DSC、影音錄製原件，使用者可以很容易地自行產生多媒
體內容，同時使用者也可透過該裝置上網下載多媒體內容，因此，本研究嘗試把“行動內容提供者”的
角色導入到行動設備端，這樣的概念不同於一般認定使用者為行動資訊服務的接收端，當使用者的角
色不再只是被動地接收資訊，其本身也很可能願意提供資訊給予其他接近的行動使用者時，這時如何
讓使用者可經由該行動裝置，能夠主動地進行裝置與服務的發現、控制以及資訊交換，這是新穎、有
趣的研究議題。因此，本研究整合網路中介軟體、跨平台網連、遠端訊息傳輸以及安全交易等技術模
式，發展以使用者主導之多媒體內容傳輸架構。 
本計畫成果，完成以上兩套機制，以行動異質網路為網路應用環境，介紹許多以使用者為主的新
型態多媒體內容傳輸服務（訊息溝通、定位服務、檔案交換以及串流傳輸等），我們認為在開放式的 IP
通訊環境中，以內容為主、技術應用為導向將逐漸成為行動多媒體服務的發展主流。 
 
 
關鍵字：裝置發現、多媒體分佈、行動群組通訊、行動內容傳遞、行動應用、無所不在計算、行動計
算 
 
1 
 
Content 
This NSC project achieves two R&D efforts: (Part A) a mobile group communication system in 
ubiquitous communication networks, and (Part B) a user-provided multimedia content distribution 
architecture in mobile and ubiquitous communication networks.  
The following describes each achievement in the representation organization - Introduction, Motivation, 
Proposed mechanism, Performance results, Summary & remarks, and References.  
 
Part A 
A.1  Introduction 
The convergence of wired, wireless and mobile network systems brings out a ubiquitous network 
environment. Modern handheld devices (MHDs), such as mobile phone, personal digital assistant, mobile 
Interne device and ultra mobile PC, now feature multiple networking interfaces – for example, the sort of 
mobile phones that have GSM, 3G, 3.5G, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth. Users with MHDs, a.k.a. mobile users, thus 
have global network connectivity to attach and move in different networks simultaneously, and higher data 
transmission capacities to access Internet files and media contents, that is, wireless Internet [1]. 
 
UMTS / WiMAX
Ubiquitous IP Network 
WLAN
Internet / WAN
inward
outward
 
Figure A-1: A ubiquitous IP network environment. 
Figure A-1 illustrates a ubiquitous IP network environment. Mobile users now experience Internet and 
Web services anytime and anywhere in a way as much like as the accustomed way they operate on desktops. 
Remarkably, many MHDs are also featured with localization modules, such as GPS, AGPS and Wi-Fi, and 
associated with navigation engines together [2]. Not only ordinary Internet services, but also MHDs are able 
to operate mobile multimedia [3] and location-based information services [4] that are special in mobile 
contexts, relatively, not in traditional Internet domain. Therefore, the progress of network convergence and 
ubiquity offers service developers and users a vigorous playground of introducing new and potential mobile 
applications and services [5]. 
This study considers many off-the-shelf MHDs’ capabilities, including multiple network interfaces 
(GSM/3G/Wi-Fi), localization (GPS/AGPS) and map navigation, open service platform and development kits, 
application customization and deployment. From users' prospect, this work plans a blueprint of group 
communication services in mobile social communities. Ideally, mobile users in a group can communicate with 
each other, regardless of their network locations and movements, in ubiquitous IP network environments.  
3 
 
mobile group communication system must support at least a set of featured functions below.  
● Dynamic group creation and participation 
● Group membership configuration 
● Support of vocal and text messages  
● Support of online and offline messages  
● Support of flexible message delivery modes  
● Support of message encryption/decryption 
● Resiliency against peer roaming and disconnection 
● Authentication and verification  
● Privacy-aware location protection 
● Friendly and touch GUI  
● Location tracking and historic log 
● Remote operation, administration & management (OA&M) 
A.3  Proposed Mechanism 
The proposed mobile group communication system involves multifold technologies, such as mobile data 
management, message exchange protocol, secure access and control, remote administration, database 
maintenance, and flexible user interface, providing an elaborate software architecture. Therefore, the 
developed architecture includes central tracking subsystem (CTS), handheld tracking subsystem (HTS), 
handheld messaging subsystem (HMS), and Web administration subsystem (WAS), as specified below. Figure 
A-3 depicts supporting functions in respective subsystems. 
● The central tracking subsystem (CTS) presides over group membership maintenance. It ensures fidelity and 
correctness of mobile database that records peers' profiles, locations and statuses [6]. It provides basic 
message relay and offline message services, and special privacy-aware and location-based message 
delivery services. For system interaction, it offers other subsystems remote APIs to execute actions, e.g., 
location registration and update, database access, message delivery. 
● The handheld tracking subsystem (HTS) provides location information about group peers' movements in a 
request-response manner. A specific location tracking service can deliver subscription-based notifications 
of location change. For interaction, HTS adopts a handheld-oriented method to update location records in 
CTS. HTS provides HMS with APIs to locate target peers for later message delivery. 
● The handheld messaging subsystem (HMS) integrates multifold GUIs for users to easily compose a 
message, designate a recipient peer and dispatch the message to CTS. HMS supports both text-based and 
vocal message formations, and offers various delivery modes, e.g. unicast, multicast, and blanket, selective 
zone-based and hot zone-based broadcast modes. HMS further enables message encryption and decryption 
against safety and security threats over unreliable networks. 
● The Web administration subsystem (WAS) supports a Web-based remote OA&M mechanism that is linked 
up with CTS. It offers configuration and control interfaces for an administrator to remotely manipulate 
CTS functions and manage group membership. In addition, WAS can download historic raw data from 
location database, and conduct special analysis of any peer’s movement pattern in a graphic rendering. 
5 
 
The user then sends this vocal message to target peers through the message forwarding service by CTS. The 
HMS at a receiving peer immediately prompts the message content to the user.  
Figure A-6 depicts the special hot zone-based message delivery. A user directly draws a hot zone on the 
touch panel and inputs a specific text/vocal message content. The HTS packages the hot zone information and 
specific message content into a dedicated message and sends it to CTS. Correspondingly, CTS resolves the 
dedicated message and inserts the hot zone record <Hotzone ID, Name, Range (GPS coordinates), Actions> 
into mobile database, as shown in Figure A-9. Later, whenever other group peers move into this hot zone, they 
will receive the specific message sent from CTS on behalf of the original peer. 
Figure A-7, 8, and 9 illustrate the friendly OA&M interface and presentation, offered by WAS linked up 
with CTS and mobile database, herein termed as CTServer. As shown in Figure A-7, WAS provides a form 
used to register any potential supervisor peer’s record <MHD’s IMEI, Nickname, Description, Actions>. 
Figure A-8 shows a group management and control page. Wherein, an administrator can view all groups’ 
profiles, every group’s peer list and its peers’ geographic distribution. In addition, the administrator can 
invoke remote control actions via this page, for example, kicking off peers, and modifying group-specific and 
peer-specific data. Finally, Figure A-9 presents an additional management page that is mainly used to display 
a particular peer’s or group’s location history in a graphic view, and also to browse a detailed message history 
for reference. 
 
A.5  Summary & Remarks 
This study has proposed the system architecture, functional components and message communication 
protocols for designing mobile group communication services in ubiquitous IP network environments. Based 
on the proposed framework, the efforts have developed the location query and tracking services, mobile 
text-based and vocal messaging services, and various message delivery modes. Prototype implementation is 
based on non-proprietary open software packages, e.g., Android SDKs and Ruby Web Framework. 
Demonstration has shown the scenario realization on target MHDs in present network environments.  
7 
 
networked devices in social communities [1]. 
As a result of this improved user experience, mobile users now expect to access information services 
anytime and anywhere. Accordingly, enabling user-provided multimedia content sharing across wireless and 
mobile-networked devices in a ubiquitous network environment is an interesting possibility in mobile 
applications. 
 
Figure B-1: A ubiquitous network environment under convergence of fixed, wireless, and mobile networks. 
B.2  Motivation 
Consider the evolution of wireless broadband network systems, such as IEEE 802.11a/g/n, UMTS, LTE, 
and WiMAX. Significant increases in bandwidth utilization and transmission in these systems have so far 
satisfied the minimal conditions of multimedia content services. Users with modern MHDs can enjoy Internet 
and Web file access, and A/V content delivery and streaming. However, the intrinsic characteristics and 
constraints of wireless and mobile networks influence the design of mobile and ubiquitous applications. First, 
wireless communication systems have lower transmission throughput than high-speed LAN/WAN systems. 
Second, energy consumption is critical because MHDs are battery-powered with hourly energy capacity. 
Third, a limited single-hop transmission range, which is dozens of meters in a PAN or WLAN, confines an 
MHD’s movement within a certain coverage area to retain the connection and communication in a singly 
managed network. Finally, most wireless communication systems have no support of service mobility. In 
general, there is no monolithic system dedicated to mobile and ubiquitous applications. A ubiquitous network 
environment involves different heterogeneous network systems with asymmetric capabilities in bandwidth, 
transmission rate, coverage size, mobility, QoS, and security. Due to underlying network heterogeneity and 
interoperability, standard TCP/IP and HTTP functionalities support a uniform platform for application-level 
network service design and deployment. 
B.3  Proposed Mechanisms 
This study considers several design requirements to deal with the weaknesses of wireless and mobile 
networks, and accordingly proposes a user-provided multimedia content distribution architecture for an 
integrated network environment. As Figure B-2 shows, the proposed architecture consists of four basic 
components:  
 UPnP device discovery 
9 
 
mobile content receiver and home server. Note that this transaction key is opaque to the receiver and becomes 
invalidated immediately after the transaction is complete. This policy prevents distributing a transaction key 
to unauthorized receivers. In addition, this study also develops an RPC-like and XML-based messaging model, 
abbreviated as XML-RPC, to perform the secure transaction process between the home server, and mobile 
content provider or receiver.  
The home server employs a virtual file system to process directory and file browsing, and other 
operations in support of secure content delivery. For each transaction, the home server prepares a temporary 
location reference at which the receiving client can make a connection to fetch a media object. Different 
transactions involving the same media object correspond to different location references. The home server 
uses this virtual file system and dynamic reference mapping to protect the file system from possible threats. 
To realize a novel mobile content sharing scenario, the proposed design addresses several design 
concerns and requirements to cope with the characteristics and limitations of wireless and mobile networks. 
This study proposes an architecture reference that integrates device discovery, asynchronous content delivery, 
secure access control, and virtual file system software components. The proposed architecture adopts UPnP 
middleware [3] for networked devices and service discovery. The home server fulfills asynchronous content 
delivery on behalf of the mobile content provider. A light-weight secure access control mechanism with 
simple double key identification guarantees a trusted transaction process, while a virtual file system with 
dynamic reference mapping guards against security threats. Prototype development and performance results 
demonstrate the feasibility and effects of the proposed software architecture. 
B.4  Performance Results 
The experiments on the developed prototype were conducted using off-the-shelf MHDs and PCs in real 
network environments. Mobile content receivers and providers ran in Apple iPhones (Samsung S3C6400 
533MHz CPU, Infineon UMTS/HSDPA, Wi-Fi 802.11b/g, and iPhone OS 2.2.1 version). The home server 
was installed on a general PC (Intel Core 2 Quad 2.66 GHz with 2GB.RAM, and ArchLinux). The XML-RPC 
software module was implemented using Ruby 1.8.6 on a Rails 2.2 Web Framework. The mobile content 
receiver, provider, and home server supported XML-RPC functionality. The mobile content provider and 
home server ran a micro-Web server to process XML-RPC actions issued by any MHD through a simple Web 
client. The experiments adopted a control design with a SOAP 4R [5] library using the same Ruby framework 
as a comparison baseline.  
 
Figure B-3: Performance measure: XML-RPC vs. SOAP. 
Results show that the design of the XML-RPC message format and representation is simple. The 
XML-RPC is much faster than SOAP in all cases in both networks. SOAP’s transaction time is about six 
times that of XML-RPC under Wi-Fi. This falls to about three times when both SOAP and XML-RPC transfer 
data via longer connection distances in 3G. Nevertheless, the time difference between SOAP and XML-RPC 
11 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本計畫著力於整合行動通訊網路與數位家庭網路間多媒體內容與串流服務，提出「行動群
組通訊系統平台」與「使用者主導性多媒體內容傳輸架構」，兩項研發成果理論與實務兼具，
均發表於 SCI 及國際期刊，其中所涉及之關鍵技術，已提出專利申請。 
  行動群組通訊系統平台之設計，考量新型態行動通訊設備支援 IP 通訊與 GPS 定位能力，
使用者能透過行動手持設備無所不在、隨時隨地的與其他行動使用者連結。因此，我們的研
究基於新型態網路應用之發展，設計行動群組定位、位置追蹤與訊息傳遞之系統平台，所提
的各項機制，不受限於下層網路系統，完全執行於 IP 網路之上，該平台軟件可直接應用於現
有消費性行動通訊裝置中，支援各類新穎服務發展之所需。 
  此外，現有高階行動通訊裝置多配備有 DSC、影音錄製原件，使用者可以很容易地自行
產生多媒體內容，同時使用者也可透過該裝置上網下載多媒體內容，因此，本研究嘗試把“行
動內容提供者”的角色導入到行動設備端，這樣的概念不同於一般認定使用者為行動資訊服務
的接收端，當使用者的角色不再只是被動地接收資訊，其本身也很可能願意提供資訊給予其
他接近的行動使用者時，這時如何讓使用者可經由該行動裝置，能夠主動地進行裝置與服務
的發現、控制以及資訊交換，這是新穎、有趣的研究議題。因此，本研究整合網路中介軟體、
跨平台網連、遠端訊息傳輸以及安全交易等技術模式，發展以使用者主導之多媒體內容傳輸
架構。 
  本計畫成果，完成以上兩套機制，以行動異質網路為網路應用環境，介紹許多以使用者
為主的新型態多媒體內容傳輸服務（訊息溝通、定位服務、檔案交換以及串流傳輸等），我們
認為在開放式的 IP 通訊環境中，以人為本、內容為主、技術應用為導向的應用研究，將逐漸
成為行動多媒體服務的主流發展。 
13 
 
日期： 99 年 9 月 2 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：行動異質網路串流服務之傳輸平台與應用--子計畫
二：行動異質網路下新型態串流服務和應用之研發 
計畫主持人：胡誌麟 
計畫編號：NSC98－2221－E－008－041 領域：通訊網路 
研發成果名稱 
（中文）家庭網路環境中無縫式多媒體串流服務之設計 
（英文）Seamless Media Streaming Service in Home Network 
Environment 
成果歸屬機構 國立中央大學 發明人 (創作人) 
胡誌麟, 黃國富 
技術說明 
於寬頻家庭網路環境中使用多媒體內容分享服務時，進行
中的網路資料傳輸與串流播放通常會因為使用裝置的移動或是
網路位置的改變而導致服務中斷。本論文首先分析當使用者在
進行多媒體內容分享服務時，有可能之移動情況，據以提出一
套無縫式多媒體串流傳輸與播放機制，這機制將可以幫助已移
動的家庭網路裝置快速重新建立連線、恢復影音串流傳輸並且
維持多媒體播放不中斷。此機制之設計，無須修改實施裝置的
系統底層與網路功能，可直接以軟體應用程式的方式來達成，
可視為一低成本的解決方法。同時，本論文提出以 OSGi 服務
平台發展之實作雛型，並佐以實驗量測結果來說明該機制之功
效。 
In a broadband home network environment, users playing 
media content sharing services usually encounter severe problems 
of disconnection and media transfer/streaming service termination 
due to free movement of either a source or client device. This 
paper analyzes the user’s movement cases, and accordingly 
proposes a seamless media streaming and playing mechanism. This 
mechanism can provide fast re-connection establishment, 
resumption of media streaming, and playback continuity. In 
addition, this design is independent of the underlying OS and 
network kernel. Its development turns out to be an 
application-level software that can be installed in any OSGi-based 
home networked devices, so resulting in a lightweight solution. 
Further, this paper presents a proof of concept and reports 
experimental results to show the effort of the proposed mechanism.
產業別 
資訊服務業 
研究發展服務業 
電信工程業 
其他專業、科學及技術服務業 
技術/產品應用範圍 
家庭網路 
企業網路 
P2P 網路 
家用閘道器 Gateway 設計 
技術移轉可行性及預期效益  
1୯ࣽ཮ံշ஑ᚒࣴزीฝ໨Πрৢ୯ሞᏢೌ཮᝼Јளൔ֋
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ВයǺ 99 ԃ 8 Д 25 В
΋ǵୖу཮᝼࿶ၸ
    IEEE Consumer Electronics Societyᐕԃ֡ӧऍ୯܎ථᆢуථᖐᒤIEEE ICCE୯ሞ཮᝼Ǵ၀཮᝼ਔ
໔ӕਔΨࢂCES୯ሞႝηε৖ޑ৖යǴӢԜᕇளٰԾШࣚӚӦౢᏢࣴΓγޑଯࡋख़ຎϷୖᆶǴICCE
کCES౰ݩ዗ਗ਼ǶᗨฅICCEε཮ගٮ܌ԖፕЎௗڙޣխ຤ޑCESႝηε৖ߐ౻ǴՠࢂҗܭCES߻ࡕޑ
ᐒ౻࣬྽ᜤۓǵᐒ౻຤ҔΨၨځдਔ໔ຬрࡐӭǴᛖܭीฝံշϐ࿶຤Ԗज़Ǵനࡕ໻ૈुᖼCESႝη
ε৖่״ࡕ႖΋Ϻޑᐒ౻Ȑఁ΋Ϻޑ຤ҔёϿ΋࿤ӭϡȑǴԾѠчམ४๮ૐ੤ᐒрว࿶LAᙯᐒ܎ථ
ᆢуථǴܢၲਔࢂICCE཮᝼ಃ΋ϺޑϱࡕǴΕՐ཮൑Ѧൎၨ༹ሽޑਓᓔࡕǴᇴᆙ২؁ऊъλਔǴפ
ډ཮൑ǴӧֹԋຏнЋុࡕǴӢࣁࢂಃ΋ԛୖᆶICCE཮᝼Ǵࡐᙣ཈ӦѤೀو࣮аዕ஼཮൑Ǵ൩ӧᘤ
ំੇൔ৖Ң୔ਔ᠋ـዕ஼ޑᖂॣǴࢂѠ᡼αॣޑ୯ᇟǴᙯᓐ΋࣮՟ම࣬՟ޑᖍϾǴࢂٰԾѠ᡼ৣεޑ
΋Տଯ௲௤کӕՉޑѠ᡼ଯ໢εᏢ϶ΓǶଯ௲௤ӧICCEΜϩࢲ៌Ǵࢂ೭Ԝε཮ޑ᝼ำہ঩ϐ΋Ƕӧ
дӧ஥ሦΠǴךౣᔉICCEޑၸѐᆶ౜ӧǴ٠໒௴೭ΟϺޑICCEϐਓǴࡐזӦӧڹჿٰډϐ߻Ǵךॺ
ᇴᆙᚆ໒཮൑Ƕ
௯ΓޑፕЎว߄Ӽ௨ӧಃΒϺޑ΢ϱ Session 4.2: Network Infrastructure (Time: 9:30)(Room 
N260)ǴSession Chairࣁ Dr. J.J. Lukkien ȐEindhoven University of Technology)΋Տࡐ቉্ޑ಻ើᏢ
ीฝጓဦ NSC98ɡ2221ɡEɡ008ɡ041ɡ
ीฝӜᆀ Չ୏౦፦ᆛၡՍࢬ୍ܺϐ໺ᒡѳѠᆶᔈҔ – ηीฝΒǺՉ୏౦፦ᆛၡ
ΠཥࠠᄊՍࢬ୍ܺکᔈҔϐࣴว
р୯Γ঩
ۉӜ
चᇞᡕ
୍ܺᐒᄬ
Ϸᙍᆀ
୯ҥύѧεᏢ೯ૻπำس
ηीฝЬ࡭Γ
཮᝼ਔ໔
99ԃ 1Д 11ВԿ
99ԃ 1Д 13В ཮᝼Ӧᗺ
ऍ୯ǵ܎ථᆢуථ
཮᝼Ӝᆀ
(ύЎ) ಃΒΜΖۛ IEEE੃຤܄ႝη୯ሞ཮᝼
(मЎ) The 28th IEEE International Conference on Consumer Electronics 
ว߄ፕЎ
ᚒҞ
(ύЎ) Ѝජ IPᆛၡύՉ୏ဂಔ೯ૻϐՏ࿼ଓᙫکૻ৲໺ଌس಍
(मЎ) A Location Tracking and Message System for Mobile Group 
Communication in IP Network 
3Ϥǵځд
 2
相當浩大，整個大廳都是三星的工程師與參加的高中生，主要是介紹和教育他們的未來的科技新生
力軍，有關三星集團產品研發的過程、和種種…。這類以國際大企業主辦，針對國內重點高中生為
主要的營隊活動，在我們台灣很少見，相當期待以後國內也有這樣的會議，教育自己的國民、愛用
自己 MIT 的產品。 
    這天下午，會場四周開始下起大雨，氣溫約略只有零度多一些。晚些，因為天候氣候因素，我
們就趕搭巴士離開位於高山上以滑雪場聞名的鳳凰城渡假村，回到首爾市。 
二、 與會心得 
    這次出國做Oral Presentation，讓我對學術交流有更深刻的了解，投稿於國外的Conference 爭取機
或，與國外的學者分享研究成果，在往返的答覆之間，對於問題能有各深入的了解，甚至因此發現能
再更加補強的地方或是激發出新的點子。 
    ICACT’10的主題很明確，安排以五個會議空間，同時進行，所收錄之論文內容也安排得相當有條
理，與會者可以依照各自的興趣和時間，有很好的安排，時間不大至於會衝到，與會者便於在各會場
之間切換。這部分可看得出大會的的用心程度（詳細議程可參考：http://www.icact.org/index.asp.） 
    ICACT’10的論文質與量都不錯，並且自2004年起ICACT論文收錄在IEEE Xplore（EI），從這邊能
載到PDF檔的全文。而且論文也會被檢索與摘要在一些資料庫上，如 INSPEC, Engineering Index (EI), 
SCOPUS等，因此投稿並參與ICACT會議，對於我們的研究成果確有提昇credit的作用。 
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)：無 
四、 建議 
    這次出國發生了一件意外插曲，就是我第一天在首爾的新村迷路了，附近剛好是梨花女子大學、
延世大學、弘益大學等。我在問路的時候，發現大部分的路人，尤其大學生，英文程度都很不錯。
這一點和自己在台灣的體驗有很大的差異。自己上台報告的經驗，也深刻體認到英文聽說能力的重
要性，唯有深厚的英文底子以及相關領域的專業用字，才能將自己的想法明白地跟他人分享，並得
到最正確的資訊。希望國內的研究型大學都能確實要求碩士班研究生在書報討論這一類課程，練習
用英文報告，尤其碩士班二年級的學生。 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文集電子書 
六、 其他 
1୯ࣽ཮ံշ஑ᚒࣴزीฝ໨Πрৢ୯ሞᏢೌ཮᝼Јளൔ֋
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ВයǺ 99 ԃ 8  Д 25 В
΋ǵġ ୖу཮᝼࿶ၸ
Ԝԛ཮᝼ፕЎϐว߄ǴচςፎᏢғಃ΋բޣȐ஭аࢽӕᏢȑрৢว߄Ƕࡕٰε཮ᗎፎ௯Γрৢ
ᏼҺ Session chairǵ٠๏ϒຏн຤ӄխϐᓬျǴ௯ΓӢԜᒿՉ߻۳ୖᆶ೭ԛ཮᝼Ǵڐշ ICACTε཮
Ь࡭ SessionǴ٠ᆶ ICACTБಔᙃԋ঩ҬࢬǶ
аΠࣁԜԛৡਓޑՉำǺ
2/6Πϱਲ༜ᐒ൑рวǴഠఁډၲϘοᐒ൑ǴᙯམЃγ߈२ᅟѱǴΕՐ୘ਓǶ
2/7ϱࡕམӦ៓ᙯௗЃγǴ߻۳ Phoenix ParkǴഠఁ߻ܢၲǴΕՐε཮Ӽ௨ޑਓᓔǴ߻۳཮൑ൔډǴ
ሦڗၗ਑Ƕ
2/8 Ь࡭ SessionǴಡ᠋೚ӭϩණԄᆛၡǵՉ୏ᆛၡሦୱޑፕЎว߄Ƕ
2/9 ಡ᠋ፕЎว߄Ǵύϱམᢑً΢ξഗǴ۳ൺऊ΋λਔǶΠϱ᠋ፕЎว߄ǶഠఁϖᗺًΠξǶ
੝ձᇥܴǴගԐ΋ϺΠξޑচӢǺԜԛ΋ՏӕՉޑѠ᡼ᏢғғੰǴӧξ΢วଯᐨόଏǴӼ௨Πξ൩
ᙴǶΓғӦόዕǴখӳಃ΋ϺΕՐޑ୘ਓჹय़όΦࢂ२ᅟ୯ҥᙴଣǴ஥дၸѐ࡚ບǴᙴଣၸ΋ϺࡕǴ
ӢࣁӣѠ᡼ޑ੤ᐒࢂ 10ВఁǴᆶᙴғڐፓࡕǴᡣ၀ᏢғܺҔ੝ਏᛰफ़ྕǴ೯ၸੇᜢᔠᡍǴӣѠ൩ᙴǶ
2/10 ྣ៝၀ғੰޑᏢғǴΠϱрଣǴॅᐒ൑Ǵᗋӳ໩ճ೯ၸੇᜢᡏྕໆෳǴམ΢ӣѠ᡼ޑ੤ᐒǶ
Βǵġ ᆶ཮Јள
    ICACTࣁ٥ϼ୔ୱ๱Ӝޑ೯ૻࣽמ୯ሞ཮᝼ǴϞԃಃΜΒ Ǵۛᐕԃٰ֡җᗬ୯ࡹ ǵ۬IEEE Region 
10ȐѠ᡼܌ឦϩ୔ȑǵᆶᗬ୯ݤΓࣴزᐒᄬᖄӝЬᒤǶ܌ԏᒵϐፕЎ፦ᆶໆ֡όᒱǴҭࣁ IEEE Explore
ȐEIȑ܌ጓᒵǴӧ௯Γ܌ឦޑࣴزሦୱጄᛑǴதـډ ICACT཮᝼ፕЎ೏ЇҔǴ೭ΨЇଆךளݙཀǴ
،ۓஒҁࣴزϐ೽ϩ่݀᏾౛׫ዺ၀཮᝼Ǵࡐ۩ၮӦᕇளௗڙǶ
    ICACT཮᝼ಔᙃ࣬྽Ԗਏ౗ǴܭൔډຏнϐሞǴջ٩όӕޑୖᆶޣيϩǴΨᆶόӕޑൔډࢬำǴ
ीฝጓဦ
NSC98ɡ2221ɡEɡ008ɡ041ɡ
ीฝӜᆀ
Չ୏౦፦ᆛၡՍࢬ୍ܺϐ໺ᒡѳѠᆶᔈҔ – ηीฝΒǺՉ୏౦፦ᆛၡΠཥࠠᄊՍ
ࢬ୍ܺکᔈҔϐࣴว
р୯Γ঩
ۉӜ
चᇞᡕ
୍ܺᐒᄬ
Ϸᙍᆀ
୯ҥύѧεᏢ೯ૻπำᏢس
շ౛௲௤
཮᝼ਔ໔
99ԃ 2Д 7ВԿ
! 99ԃ 2Д 10В ཮᝼Ӧᗺ
Phoenix Park, Korea 
཮᝼Ӝᆀ
(ύЎ) ಃ 12ۛӃ຾೯ૻࣽמ୯ሞࣴ૸཮
(मЎ) The 12th International Conference On Advanced Communication Technology
ว߄ፕЎ
ᚒҞ
ᏼҺ Session Chair 
(ύЎ) ЍජזೲЪϦѳޑ P2Pᔞਢϩ٦ϐᙁܰӕᏆᒧ᏷฼ౣ
(मЎ) Simple Peer Selection Strategies for Fast and Fair Peer-to-Peer File Sharing 
3

其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
辦理學術活動： 
Co-organizer &amp； co-chair, IEEE PerCom'10 Workshop: The Sixth Int'l 
Workshop on Mobile Peer-to-Peer Computing (MP2P ＇ 10), Mannhein, 
Germany, April 2010. 
 
競賽獎項： 
2009  電信加值應用大賽、3G行動校園網應用組、第一名、主題「校園生活資
訊通 SLIMA」、中央大學隊：周崇光、林家揚、卓建安、范振緯  
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
本計畫整合行動異質網路多媒體內容與串流服務，提出「行動群組通訊系統平台」與「使
用者主導性多媒體內容傳輸架構」，兩者理論與實務兼具。 
    考量新型行動設備支援 IP 通訊與 GPS 定位，使用者能透過行動手持設備隨時隨地與
其他使用者連結。行動群組通訊系統平台之提供行動群組定位、位置追蹤與訊息傳遞等功
能，不受限於下層網路系統，完全執行於 IP 網路之上，並可應用於現有消費性行動通訊
裝置。 
    此外，高階行動裝置多配備有 DSC、影音錄製元件，使用者可自行產生多媒體內容，
同時使用者也可以該裝置下載多媒體內容，因此，本研究導入＇行動內容提供者＇的概
念，不同於一般認定使用者為行動資訊服務的接收端，當使用者的角色不再只是被動地接
收資訊，其本身也願意提供資訊給予其他接近的行動使用者時，如何讓行動裝置之間能夠
進行裝置與服務的發現、控制以及資訊交換，這是新穎、有趣的研究議題。本研究整合中
介軟體、跨平台、遠端訊息傳輸以及安全交易等技術，發展出以使用者主導之多媒體內容
傳輸架構。 
    我們認為在開放式的 IP 通訊環境中，以人為本、內容為主、技術應用為導向的應用
研究，將逐漸成為行動多媒體服務的主流發展。 
