Introduction 
Tyrosinase (EC 1.14.18.1) is a copper-containing monooxygenase widely distributed in nature. 
The enzyme catalyzes the first two reactions of melanin synthesis, the hydroxylation of L-tyrosine to 
3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, L-dopa, and the oxidation of L-dopa to dopaquinone. This o-quinone is a 
highly reactive compound and can polymerize spontaneously to form melanin (1). Although the pigment 
melanin in human skin is a major defense mechanism against the ultraviolet light of the sun, the 
production of abnormal pigmentation such as melasma, freckles, age-spots, liver spots, and other forms of 
melanin hyperpigmentation can be a serious aesthetic problem (2). Hence, inhibiting the tyrosinase 
activity and preventing the abnormal pigmentations has been the subject of many studies (3-7). 
In our labor, we are interested in looking for actinomycetes with anti-tyrosinase activity. We 
used the high throughput screening method by employing the 48-well microplates instead of traditional 
shake flasks in submerged cultivations. Some targets were isolated by this method (8). The present work 
reports the isolation and characterization of a novel strain TI-C3 of Streptomyces hiroshimensis with the 
highest anti-tyrosinase activity in our screening study. 
Materials and methods 
Streptomyces hiroshimensis BCRC 12423 used as an indicator for strain identification was obtained 
from Bioresources Collection and Research Center, Food Industry Research and Development Institute, 
Taiwan. 
Mushroom tyrosinase, L-tyrosine, sodium caseinate, asparagine, sodium propionate, corn steep 
liquor, maltose, glycerol, sodium nitrate, ammonium sulfate, glucose, nalidixic acid, deoxyribonucleotide 
One microliter of 0.01 M DL-A2pm (Sigma) was spotted on the same plate as a standard. The plate was 
developed on the solvent system methanol-distilled water-6N HCl-pyridine (80:26:4:10, v/v) for 3 - 4 
hours. The plate was then dried and sprayed with Ninhydrin Spray Reagent (Merck) and heated at 100℃ 
for 5 min. The spots of A2pm appeared in yellowish green color. 
The sugar content of the cells was analyzed by the same procedure as that of A2pm but the hydrolysis 
and developing were carried out by using 2 N trifluoroacetic acid and n-butanol-distilled 
water-pyridine-toluene (10:6:6:1, v/v), as solvents respectively. The spraying reagent was acid aniline 
phthalate. The standard sugar solution contained 1 ﹪(w/v) of each galactose, glucose, mannose, 
arabinose, xylose and ribose. 
The partial gyrB gene fragment was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using the 
primers: PF1 (forward: 5'-GAGGTCGTGCTGACCGTGCTGCACGCGGGCGGCAAGTTCGGC –3’) 
and PR2 (reverse: 5'-GTTGATGTGCTGGCCGTCGACGTCGGCGTCCGCCAT-3'). Genomic DNA was 
extracted from 7-day cultures using the QIAGEN® Genimic DNA Kit. The PCR procedure for amplifying 
the gyr B sequence was the same as that described by Hatano et al. (12). The amplified product was 
analyzed in a Genetic Analyzer (ABI PRISM 310; PE Applied Biosystems, USA) according to the 
manufacturer’s protocol. The gyr B sequence of the strain TI-C3 was aligned manually against the 
nucleotide sequences of other whorl-forming Streptomyces strains retrieved from GenBank databases. 
DNA-DNA hybridization was performed by the method of Ezaki et al. (13). The experiment was 
performed at least five times and the level of DNA-DNA hybridization was expressed as the mean percent 
of the homologous DNA binding value. 
Anthos Inc., Salzburg, Austria). The percent inhibition of tyrosinase activity was calculated as follows: % 
Inhibition = [(A-B)/A] X100 where A is the absorbance at 475 nm with reaction buffer instead of the 
tested sample and B is the absorbance at 475 nm with the tested sample. The volume of a sample at which 
50 % of the enzyme activity was inhibited was obtained by linear curve fitting. One unit of inhibitory 
activity was defined as the amount of the sample used in the assay condition by which the enzyme activity 
was reduced to 50%. The anti-tyrosinase activity was expressed as the amount units in one micro liter of 
broth samples (U/ml). 
Results and discussion 
The screening method used was adopted from our previous work (14) without any modification. 
Using this method, we screened nearly two thousands of isolated strains in a month. One strain, named 
TI-C3, showed 498 U/ml of anti-tyrosinase activity, was isolated and chosen for further study due to the 
highest anti-tyrosinase activity (Figure 1). 
Under a light microscope, aerial mycelium of the strain TI-C3 exhibited long and straight 
filaments (Figure 2a). The mycelium also contained spore-bearing branches arranged in whorls at intervals. 
Sporophores were formed on aerial mycelia and short umbels of spore chains were observed under a 
scanning electron microscope (Figure 2b). Analysis of the whole-cell hydrolysate of the strain TI-C3 
showed the presence of a chemotype I cell wall characterized by LL-A2pm. No diagnostic sugars were 
found. According to the typical colony appearance, microscopic morphologies and chemical analysis, the 
strain TI-C3 belonged to the whorl-forming genus Streptomyces (formerly Streptoverticillium, 15). 
For identifying the strain further, a part of sequence (1216 nt) of gyrB of TI-C3 was amplified 
and compared with those whorl-forming strains of Streptomyces available from the public databases. The 
References 
(1) S.Y. Seo, V.K. Sharma, and N. Sharma, Mushroom tyrosinase: recent prospects. J. Agric. Food Chem., 
51, 2837-2853 (2003). 
(2) S. Briganti, E. Camera, and M.  Picardo, Chemical and instrumental approaches to treat 
hyperpigmentation. Pig. Cell Res., 16, 101-110 (2003). 
(3) N. Baurin, E. Arnoult, T. Scior, Q.T. Do, and P. Bernard, Preliminary screening of some tropical plants 
for anti-tyrosinase activity. J. Ethnopharmacol. 82, 155-158 (2002). 
(4) Q.X. Chen, and I. Kubo, Kinetics of mushroom tyrosinase inhibition by quercetin. J. Agric. Food 
Chem., 50, 4108-4112 (2002). 
(5) Y.M. Kim, J. Yun, C.K. Lee, H. Lee, K.R. Min, and Y. Kim, Oxyresveratrol and hydroxystilbene 
compounds, inhibitory effect on tyrosinase and mechanism of action. J. Biol. Chem., 277, 
16340-16344 (2002). 
(6) M. Shiino, Y. Watanabe, and K. Umezawa, Synthesis and tyrosinase inhibitory activity of novel 
N-hydroxybenzyl-N-nitrosohydroxylamines. Bioorg. Chem., 31, 129-135 (2003). 
(7) X.L. Piao, S.H. Baek, M.K. Park, and J.H. Park, Tyrosinase-inhibitor furanocoumarin from Angelica 
dahurica. Biolo. Pharm. Bull., 27, 1144-1146 (2004). 
(8) T.S. Chang, C.F. Chiou, S.J. Chu, and M. Wu, Development of an efficiency high throughout 
screening method by using microplates. The fifty-first Chinese Chemical Engineering Conferences 
1096-1099 (2004). 
(9) E.B. Shirling, and D. Gottlieb, Methods for characterization of Strepotmyces species. Inter. J. Sys. 
Table 1. Physiological characteristics of the strain TI-C3 compared with the type strain of S. hiroshimensis 
BCRC 12423. 
Characteristics TI-C3 S. hiroshimensis 
strain BCRC 12423
Growth temperature (℃) 15-40 15-40 
Melanin production ─ ┼ 
Lysozyme resistance ─ ─ 
Carbon utilization:   
Arabinose ─ ─ 
Cellulose ─ ─ 
Fructose ─ ─ 
Glucose ┼ ┼ 
Inositol ┼ ┼ 
Mannitol ─ ─ 
Rafffinose ─ ─ 
Salicin ─ ─ 
Starch ─ ─ 
Sucrose ─ ─ 
Xylose ─ ─ 
Substrate hydrolysis:   
Adenine ─ ─ 
Casein ┼ ┼ 
Esculin ┼ ─ 
Gelatin ─ ─ 
Hypoxanthine ┼ ┼ 
Keratin ─ ─ 
Nitrate ┼ ┼ 
Tyrosine ┼ ┼ 
Urea ─ ─ 
Xanthine ─ ─ 
Xylan ─ ─ 
 
Figure 2. Light (a) and electron (b) micrographs of the strain TI-C3 grown on oatmeal agar plate at 30 ℃ 
for 14 days. Bars represent 10 and 0.1μm in the light and electron micrographs, respectively. 
 
 
Figure 2a 
 
 
Figure 2b 
