 I
中文摘要: 
 
現今儲存系統的容量及讀寫速度多因存取方式而被侷限在 50 M sec/bit  以及儲存密
度 30 G 2/ inbit ，基於現今儲存系統對於高容量及高速存取速度的需求，高儲存密度的
光電儲存系統因此成為次世代系統的選擇。在此項研究中所要設計及討論的光電儲存系
統以 Silicon-On-Insulator Separated-Implanted-Oxygen Process (SOI-SIMOX)製程為系統
平台，並且以光電折射方式取代機械式折射光源，這種以近場光學為原理的讀寫方式預
計將可達成 1 T 2/ inbit 的儲存容量。本計劃所要探討的光學特性為: 光電折射器的邊緣
繞射及光傳輸率、近場孔徑陣列-光學繞射及光傳輸率。研究成果及設計規格將作為下
一階段元件系統實作的依據。 
 
關鍵詞: 光電儲存系統，積體光學，近場孔徑陣列，光學繞射，光電折射器。 
 
 
Abstract: 
 
As the required data size and accessing speed for the data processing grow rapidly, the 
required optical storage density and probing technique also expand. The existing optical 
storage is limited to be 50 M sec/bit  data transmission rate for recording density of 30 G 
2/ inbit , because of the read-write techniques. This research will focus on the design based on 
separated implanted oxygen process (SIMOX) and silicon-on-insulator (SOI) fabrication 
methods. The optical characteristics for the components of the electro-optical storage will also 
be investigated in this research. The optical characteristics are: edge diffraction and optical 
transmission for the electro-optical deflector, wedge diffraction and optical transmission for 
the near-field probe array. The results will contribute to the optical modeling of the 
electro-optical storage, and set the specifications for the layout verification of device 
fabrication. 
 
Keywords: Electro-optical storage, integrated optics, near-field aperture array, optical 
diffraction, and electro-optical deflector. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2
Analysis of objective lens and aperture probe array for a 
near-field optical storage 
 
 Wen-Ren Yang, Bo-Jao Huang, and Tsung-Sheng Ho 
 
Department of Electrical Engineering, Changhua University of Education. 
Changhua City, Taiwan. 
wry87c@cc.ncue.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
 
This research analyzes a near-field optical storage 
based on silicon-on-insulator (SOI) fabrication 
method. The transmission characteristics for the 
optical storage will also be investigated in this paper. 
Numerical ray-tracing method will be applied for the 
analysis of the optical transmission, and other 
diffraction effects will be discussed. The results will 
contribute to the optical modeling of the 
electro-optical storage, and set the specifications for 
the layout verification of device fabrication. 
 
Keywords: Electro-optical storage, integrated optics, 
near-field aperture array, optical diffraction, and 
electro-optical deflector. 
 
1. Introduction 
 
As the required data size and accessing speed for 
the optical storage grow rapidly, the required storage 
density and probing technique also expand. No matter 
what kind of the application it is (image processing, 
high-speed communication…etc), larger capacity and 
faster data transfer rate are always the objectives. For 
example, the required memory storage size and data 
transfer speed for ground based radar are 100’s G bit 
and 10’s of GHz. The size, price, and power 
consumption will be the design criteria; therefore 
optical storage is a potential solution to the objectives: 
compact size, large capacity, fast accessing speed. 
Figure 1 illustrates the conclusion for the mastering 
storage techniques and trends from the long-term 
research [1]. Also as identified in Fig. 1, the 
technology of this research is probe technology 
(optical probe storage) for the year 2010. The 
existing optical storages available in the market: 
1. Compact disk audio (CD), compact disk 
read-only memory (CD-ROM), compact disk 
recordable (CD-R), and digital versatile disk 
(DVD). 
2. Digital audio mini disk (MD). 
3. Magneto-optical (MO) removable storage 
devices. 
4. Write-once-read-many (WORM). 
 
 
Figure 1. The future trends and technologies of the 
optical storage [1]. 
 
The aforementioned commercial products have 
50 M sec/bit  data transmission rate and recording 
density of 30 G 2/ inbit  in general, since the 
limitation posed by mechanical read-write techniques: 
swing arm and actuator…etc. To avoid the failure of 
the mechanical parts, the electro-optical scanning 
method is applied rather than the swing arm [2]. 
Therefore, the stability of the mechanical components 
will not be considered in this electro-optical storage. 
Figure 2 shows the prototype for the 
next-generation optical storage proposed by M. Ohtsu 
[3]. The objective of the next-generation optical data 
storage is 1 G sec/bit  data transmission for 
recording density of 1 T 2/ inbit . In Fig. 2, the 
proposed optical storage is composed of: optical 
source, electro-optical deflector, focusing lens, 
near-field aperture array, phase change recording 
medium, and detector. The existing electro-optical 
deflector [4] scanning speed is about 10 MHz. The 
 4
     As shown in Fig. 4, an objective lens is 
commonly adopted as the focusing unit for optical 
storage. For the near-field optical storage, we will 
design and simulate the non-ideal focusing because 
the optical pulse is not the on-axis type as usual. 
Second, the focused optical pulse will then shoot to 
the near-field probe array as shown in Fig. 5. The 
optical pulse will be transformed into optical near 
field by the probe array. The optical near-field will 
then induced a write-in spot in the phase-changed 
medium for the optical disk, and the spacing in Fig. 5 
is within microns [9]. 
      The height and half-apex angle of the 
near-field probe array are the factors to be evaluated 
in this paper, and some of them are illustrated in Fig. 
5. This research will also investigate the effects to the 
transmission ratio of the near-field probe array. The 
cross-coupling phenomena because of off-axis 
focusing will be investigated in the next step of this 
research. 
 
2. Devices and Simulations 
 
2.1 Optical Source 
 
The optical source used in the simulations: 
wavelength of 633 nm, power of 5 mW. The same 
parameters also applied to the Heliun-Neon laser in 
the future proof-of-principle experiment. 
 
 
 
2.2 Electro-Optical Deflector 
      The electro-optical deflector used in this 
Figure 4.  Electro-optical deflection. 
 
Figure 5.  Deflected optical pulse propagation and near-field probe array. 
 6
deflector to the spatial filter array. 
The wedge diffraction is used to analyze the 
effects of the tapered edges of the probe array. Fig. 6 
illustrates the basic wedge structure and 
specifications.  
We use the unit amplitude transfer function G  
[12] to represent the total field of the wedge 
diffraction as 
( ) ( )
( ) ( )⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ ′++′−⋅
′= ∑∞
=
φφφφ
ρββρε
n
m
n
m
HJ
n
G
m
m nmnm
coscos
1
0
2
          
(3) 
⎩⎨
⎧
≠
==
02
01
m
m
mε , ( ) π⋅−= nAW 2..  
( )xJ 0 : Bessel function of the first kind, ( )xH 22 : 
Hankel function of the second kind, ..AW : wedge 
angle. 
 
Therefore, the field distribution sE  generated by 
incident unit amplitude iE  can be written as 
 
                         GEE is ⋅=                 
            (4) 
 
The variables to be analyzed in this paper are the 
wedge angle ( ..AW ) and depth ( ρ ) of the probe, as 
shown in Fig. 9. In order to compare their 
corresponding results, we analyze two different 
..AW s that are based on the same ρ  of probe array. 
We calculate different numbers of ρ  of probe array 
and compare them on the basis of the same ..AW s.   
The parameters to be used in the latter 
calculations are 
TE mode, 
yE , nm633=λ . °=115..AW  and 
°125 , +°= 90..AW half_apex angle as illustrated in 
Fig. 5.  °°′ 95~91:φ , incident field. φ : angle of 
observation angle, the center of the probe array. 
mμρ 3:  and mμ10 . 1L=′ρ . mW μ11 = , 
mW μ32 = , 1L : determined by the spacing of the 
probe array and deflection angle °= 3θ . We choose 
silver as the material for the probe array, since this 
paper does not discuss the optical penetration.  
Fig. 10 illustrates the calculation results of the 
following parameters:  
°=115..AW  and °125 , scanning variable 
°°′ 95~91:φ , mμρ 10: , mW μ11 = , and 
mW μ32 = . 
Fig. 11 illustrates the calculation results of the 
following parameters:  
°=125..AW , scanning variable °°′ 95~91:φ , 
mμρ 3:  and mμ10 , mW μ11 = , and mW μ32 = . 
As shown in Fig.10, the larger ..AW  of °35  has 
a wedge diffraction that is limited to a smaller region; 
a ..AW  of °25  introduces a larger region of 
fluctuation (disturbance). We can also conclude that 
the shallower spatial filter ( mμρ 3: ) as shown in Fig. 
11, suffered smoother disturbances than the deeper 
one ( mμρ 10: ). 
 
4.  Conclusions 
 
In this research, we have analyzed the off-axis 
focusing scheme and bi-wedge diffraction for a 
near-field optical storage.  The next step of this 
research is to construct a proof-of-principle 
experiment. The experiment will examine the off-axis 
Figure 8.  Near-field probe array. 
Figure 9.  2-dimensional wedge structure. 
