1摘要
摩擦與磨耗交互作用於工件與模具接觸之介面，是影響金屬成形製程的重要效應。對
於摩擦效應，一般採用固定摩擦係數之模式或磨潤膜模式作為模擬依據。固定摩擦係數模
式之數學形式簡單，但未考慮接觸介面之工件表面鋒(surface asperity)隨製程變化之事實，
而磨潤膜模式雖已有考慮表面鋒變化之文獻發表，但其數學形式較複雜，仍無法廣泛應用
於一般的金屬成形模擬分析中。因此，本計畫提出一個以接觸表面之磨耗改變微結構而影
響摩擦效應之概念，以 Archard 磨耗模式為基礎，推導一個工件表面磨耗模式，經實驗方
式決定相關磨耗係數，用以預估表面粗糙度(表面鋒)之變化，並將其導入修改的崔斯卡摩擦
模式(modified Tresca friction model)，作為金屬成形工件與模具接觸介面模擬之依據，發展
一個隨金屬成形製程進行而變化的摩擦模式，並將所提出之摩擦模式植入發展中之軸對稱
有限元素分析程式，以圓環壓縮試驗(ring compression test)與雙邊反向擠出實驗
(double-backward extrusion test)進行驗證。
本計畫以新的方法處理金屬成形介面摩擦之問題，並以實驗驗證所提模式之可行性，
不僅可用於一般之金屬成形模擬，且因為以微結構變化為摩擦模式推導之基礎，將有利於
微尺度成形之模擬分析。經由理論與實驗之研究，對於如何處理其他工程問題中之介面摩
擦效應也有進一步的貢獻。
關鍵詞：金屬成形、摩擦、磨耗、表面鋒
Abstract
A new method based on the wear effect of workpiece surface is proposed to modify the
Tresca friction model for the use in metal forming simulation. The method is based on the
consideration of the shape change of contact surface at the microscale and the incomplete filling
at the contact interface due to exist of surface asperities. During metal forming process, the
surface asperities are being altered and mostly flatten because of wear and fracture. The surface
roughness and friction conditions are thus being changed. This change can be directly related to
the wear at the contact interface. By using the stress conditions and the sliding velocities on the
surface, it is possible to predict the wear depth near the contact region. The predicted wear depth
is then used to describe the roughness and thus the friction conditions at the workpiece-die
interface in metal forming process.
The proposed research investigates the relationship among the wear depth at the contact
interface, the surface roughness and the friction effect in metal formation process. A new friction
model modified from Tresca friction law is formulated with the wear depth to deal with the
friction effects. To determine the relationship among wear depth, surface roughness and friction
factor, special experiments is conducted. Finally, ring compression tests and double-backward
extrusion tests is performed. The simulated and experimental results are analyzed to verify the
proposed friction model for metal forming simulation.
Keywords: metal forming, friction, wear, surface asperity
3significantly. In addition, Stupkiew and Mroz [14] proposed an asperity flattening model based on
bulk plastic straining but its relations with friction has not been established. The above literature
reviews show that the surface asperities of the workpiece are flattened, thus the contact ratio
increases and the surface roughness decreases at the workpiece-die interface during metal
forming process. The change of the asperities also affects lubrication regime.
In 1953, Archard proposed the wear volume W is proportional to the contact force P and
the sliding length L and inversely proportional to the hardness of the material H .The model is
given as follows:
H
PL
kW 
where k is the coefficient of wear measured from the experiments.
The Archard’s model was modified and applied in the modeling of die wear in the metal
forming process. Hambli [18] proposed a coefficient of wear based on cone-shaped asperity on
the surface to predict the wear of the die by using the finite element method. The study shows
that the predicted wear is close to the experimental one. Lee and Im [19] modified and
implemented the Archard’s model into the a finite element analysis using a constant coefficient of
wear and a constant hardness of material to predict die wear. However, there is no experimental
data for comparison. Behrens and Schaefer [20] and Kang et al [21] considered the hardness of
the die material as a function of temperature in the finite element simulation of the hot forging
process. Some predicted results are different from the experimental ones. Lee and Jou [22] not
only model the hardness of die material as a function of temperature, but also considered that the
coefficient of wear k varies with the temperature after some wearing tests were conducted at
high temperature. The proposed idea was used to predict the wear of die and is thus able to
estimate the life of die. Moreover, Gierzynska-Dolna and Lacki [23] proposed a model based on
the strain energy to predict the wear volume. They used simple upsetting tests to obtain critical
wear volume. Masen and Rooji [24] considered the contact behavior at the micro scale and
estimated the wear according to the fact of deformed asperities caused by the applied force in the
deep drawing process. Experimental work is still needed to evaluate the accuracy of the
prediction.
The reviewed research works do not consider the interaction between the friction and the
wear at the workpiece-die interface during the metal forming process. However, the deformation
of surface asperity may cause the contact ratio increase and influence the lubrication. Moreover,
the roughness and asperity vary with the plastic deformation of the workpiece. The experimental
works conducted by Lee et al. [26], Kato [27] and Lovell and Deng [28]show that the friction is
affected by the roughness, the sliding speed and the contact length at the contact interface. The
parameters also are the main factors for inducing the wear [29]. Therefore, this study proposed a
new friction model, based on the change in the wear and roughness on the workpiece surface, for
the simulation of the metal forming process. The study modified the Archard’s model and
formulated a new wear model based on the roughness to predict the deformation of the asperities
on the workpiece surface. The model was then implanted into an in-house plane strain finite
element program for the simulation of metal forming process. Experiments including ring
5During the metal forming process, the wear on the workpiece surface causes the change in
asperities and thus the roughness. The surface roughness of the workpiece, wR , therefore can be
treated as a function of the depth of the wear, h , and expressed as
)(hfRw  .
There are many formulas can be established for wR . This study propose wR as
hR
RR
RR
w
tw
tw 
  ,
where tR is the roughness of the die surface andis a measured coefficient. The proposed model
implies that the roughness of the workpiece surface is close to the roughness of the die surface,
i.e. wR is close to tR , as the wear is significant.
After the roughness of the workpiece surface has been estimated, it is possible to use the
Wilson’s model [7] to describe the tribological effects. In this study, the Tresca friction model,
which is common used in the metal forming process, is studied for the dray condition. The model
is expressed as
k ,
where is estimated shear stress, k is the shear strength andis the friction factor. By
considering the depth of the wear h and the roughness of the workpiece surface wR , the Tresca
model can be written as
s
s
kw v
v
hR ),,(  ,
where sv is the sliding speed at the contact interface, and is a function of h , wR and tR and can
be determined by a data fitting technique. The proposed friction model not only takes the sliding
speed at the contact interface into account, but also considers the effects of the roughness on the
friction in the metal forming process.
3. Modeling of metal forming
The material flow of the workpiece is described by a purely viscoplastic behaviour with the
neglect of the elastic effects, i.e. the workpiece is a rigid-viscoplastic material. The flow
behaviour can be expressed by the Norton-Hoff viscoplastic potential law, )(,
1)3(
1
)( 

 m
m
K  
to form the following constitutive equation:
  1)3(2  mKs
where s is the deviatoric stress tensor, K is the material consistency, m is the strain rate
sensitivity index and  is the effective strain rate with
2/1
2
3
2



  ij .
7where dv is the velocity of the die. On the contact interface c , the material point to slide on the
die surface can be written as
0nvs .
This constraint is imposed by the penalty method in this study.
The proposed friction model, , was applied to the modeling of the large deformation of
metal forming with isothermal condition. With the penalty method for dealing with impressibility,
the energy of a metal forming system, , can be expressed by the following equation
  vdSTvdSdVvdivdV
m
K
v
s
m
c
   
21 )()3(
1
)( 
where V and S are the volume and the sliding contact interface, respectively.  is an
assigned value for dealing with the incompressible or near incompressible material flows. By
applying the finite element method and minimizing the energy with and the Newton-Raphson
method, the nodal velocity field tV ban be solved. The newly updated nodal position vector
ttX  can also be obtained by after a small increment of time t by
tVXX tttt  .
The strain rate tensor at the end of the increment can be calculated by















 




T
tt
tt
tt
tt
tt
x
v
x
v
2
1
   tttttttt VVX     ,
The stress tensor can be expressed by means of the strain rate tensor as  tttt     , and the
incremental displacement vector tU is expressed by tVU tt  . Finally, the strain increment
 can also be calculated.
4. Results and discussion
The rings with the outer diameter/inner diameter/thickness equal to 3/1.5/1 mm are
compressed by a screw press at a constant speed at the die speed of 0.01 0.1 and 1 mm per second
without lubrication. With the comparison with a set of calibration curves constructed by a
commercial software, the friction factor of the Tresca model is in a range between 0.15 to 0.25 for
different roughness of the surface at the die speed of 0.01 mm per second (see Fig. 3). The
scattering effect on the measured friction factors gradually increases as the height of ring reduces.
In addition, the reduction in the surface roughness described by the arithmetic mean value (Ra) in
the range from 0.2 to 0.05 μm does not show the decrease in the friction factor. This might be
caused by the present of stronger adhesion friction than abrasive friction. The other reason could
be the insensitivity of the ring compression test to local friction effects. It can be seen in Fig. 5
that the measured friction factors slightly increase as the die speed increase to 1 mm per second.
The scattering effect on the measured data becomes larger, especially for higher reduction in the
height of the ring.
95. Conclusions
A new method based on the wear effect of workpiece surface is proposed to modify the
Tresca friction model for the use in metal forming simulation. The method is based on the
consideration of the shape change of contact surface at the microscale and the incomplete filling
at the contact interface due to exist of surface asperities. During metal forming process, the
surface asperities are being altered and mostly flatten because of wear and fracture. The surface
roughness and friction conditions are thus being changed. This change can be directly related to
the wear at the contact interface. By using the stress conditions and the sliding velocities on the
surface, it is possible to predict the wear depth near the contact region. The predicted wear depth
is then used to describe the roughness and thus the friction conditions at the workpiece-die
interface in metal forming process. The proposed research investigates the relationship among
the wear depth at the contact interface, the surface roughness and the friction effect in metal
formation process. A new friction model modified from Tresca friction law is formulated with the
wear depth to deal with the friction effects. To determine the relationship among wear depth,
surface roughness and friction factor, special experiments is conducted. Finally, ring compression
tests and double-backward extrusion tests is performed. The simulated and experimental results
are analyzed to verify the proposed friction model for metal forming simulation.
Acknowledgement
The author wishes to thank the National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences for the
use of its facilities. The support from the National Science Council under grant NSC
95-2221-E-151-012- is also gratefully acknowledged.
References
1. Tiesler, N., Engel, U., Geiger, M., Forming of Microparts-Effects of Miniaturization on
Friction, Advanced Technology of Plasticity, Proceedings of the 6th ICTP, Vol. 2, Sept. 19-24
(1999) 889-894.
2. Lee, C. H., T. Altan, Influence of Flow Stress and Friction Upon Metal Flow in Upset
Forging of Rings and Cylinders, Journal of Engineering for Industry, August, (1972)
775-782.
3. Kobayashi, S., Oh, S. I., Altan, T., Metal Forming and the Finite-Element Method, Oxford
University Press, 1989.
4. Ramaekers, J.A.H., Kals, J.A.G., Mathematical Representation of Friction in Metal Forming
Analysis, Annals of the CIRP. 35/1 (1986) 137-140.
5. Sahi, M., Rahouadj, R., Herbach, R., Choulier, D., The Influence of Viscoplasticity in the
Interpretation of the Ring Test, Journal of Materials Processing Technology. 58 (1996)
286-292.
6. Chenot J. L., Fourment, L., Mocellin, K., Numerical Treatment of Contact and Friction in FE
11
24. Masen,M.A.and de Rooij M.B., “Abrasive wear between rough surfaces in deep drawing”, 
Wear, Vol. 256, 2004, pp.639–646.
25. Stupkiewicz, S. and Mroz, Z., “Amodel of third body abrasive friction and wear in hot metal
forming”, Wear, Vol. 231, 1999, pp.124–138.
26. Lee, B. H., Keum, Y. T. and Wagoner, R. H., “Modeling of the friction caused by lubrication 
and surface roughness in sheet metal forming”, Journal of Materials Processing Technology,
Vol.130-131, 2002, pp. 60-63.
27. Kato, K., “Wear in relation to friction — a review”, Wear, Vol. 241, 2000, pp. 151–157.
28. Lovel, M.R. and Deng, Z., “Experimental investigation of sliding friction between hard and 
deformable surfaces with application to manufacturing processes”, Wear, Vol. 236, 1999, pp. 
117-127.
29. Burakowski, T. and Wierzchon, T., “Surface engineering of metal”, CRC Press, New York, 
1999, Chapter 5.
