2bouncing, or separation with or without mass
exchange, depending on the operation
conditions. The collisions between droplets
subsequently alter the statistical distribution of
mass and momentum and thus affect the
combustion performance in terms of the stability,
thrust power, and efficiency. Second, as the
droplets travel far and approach the wall of the
combustion chamber, either intentionally or
unintentionally, the liquid will spread on the
solid surface, forming a layer, or bouncing off.
As a result, the transport and mixing of heat and
mass of the reactants is up to a different mode of
gasification affected by collision between the
droplets and surface being either wet or dry.
Therefore, these factors play a substantial role in
our comprehension and further modeling for the
complex behaviors of the combustion devices,
which shall necessitate the basic realization of
colliding phenomena.
Our focus in this study is on the collision
between a droplet and surface. Most of the
collision outcomes have been experimentally
observed [11]. Considering head-on collision of
two liquid interfaces with small impact inertia, it
is expectable that the slowly approaching
objects would eventually coalesce, due to the
attraction of intermolecular force between the
same materials. As impact energy or droplet
deformation is increased, more gas is trapped
inside the gap between the deformed surfaces.
Consequently higher pressure is built up and
resists further approaching of the droplet; it thus
results in a bouncing regime as We is increased.
Here the adequate dimensionless parameter for
characterization is the Weber number, We =
2ℓVrel2R/, where Vrel is the relative velocity, R
the radius of the droplet, and ℓ and 
respectively the density and surface tension of
the liquid. However, if We is further increased,
the repulsive pressure inside the gap is
overwhelmed by stronger impact inertia and the
surfaces will merge again. With even higher We,
the merged droplet has to separate in order to
balance the excess energy which cannot be
digested in a single droplet merely by ensuing
viscous loss during the oscillation. Depending
on the relative magnitudes of impact inertia,
surface tension, and viscous dissipation, satellite
or secondary droplets can be further created.
Most attention of previous efforts was paid
to the characteristics of splashing and its
transition mechanisms beyond the regime of
total absorption, which occurs when the
impaction is harsh [2, 12]. In that situation, a
crown is formed and multitude of secondary
droplets are further disintegrated from the rim
after a corrugated shape is generated by
capillary instability, which is then followed by
the ejection of a central column known as
Rayleigh or Worthington jet [3, 4, 11, 13]. In this
project, we purported to study the regimes at
high We with variation of film thickness as well
as that with We even larger than others, in which
transitions from absorption and separation to
splashing, and even different modes of
scattering may occur. To achieve the testing
condition, a droplet generator has been
developed to create high-speed droplets that are
associated with Weber number higher than 4000.
With such strong impact, the envelope of the
jetted sheet at the surrounding was observed to
close, which further generated a jet that
extended both upward and downward and was
distinct from the well-known Worthington jet.
2. Experimental setup
A jet with adjustable speed is generated by
the thrust of an air cylinder associated with a
movable piston, which is driven by the gaseous
pressure of nitrogen, as shown in Fig. 1(a). The
measurement of the movement is conducted by
Mitutoyo’s DRO (Digital Readout) that
integrates the AT100 Series Linear Scales with
the K Series dedicated digital counters, which
offer accurate detection and display of axial
displacements of the piston (up to 0.001 mm).
Via compression, the liquid within two smaller
cylinders downstream is injected. The jet,
passing through filters and eventually squeezed
out of a nozzle with desired exit diameter, is
introduced to the chamber (Fig. 1b) made of
Plexiglas walls that isolate the influence of
outside air. Depending on the upstream nitrogen
pressure controlled by a valve, the speed of the
jet can go faster than 50 m/s (the full scale is 10
atm while 3 atm is about to accelerate the liquid
to 50 m/s at the exit of the nozzle). With
high-speed rotation of a disk that is equipped
with a knife and driven by a motor, the jet is cut
in pieces that subsequently form droplets. As
shown in Fig. 2(a), if the rotation speed is low,
4magnificent owing to the collapse of the closed
envelop. Although the phenomena have been
observed previously, the difference between a
film and a pool has not been elucidated clearly,
as far as the authors know. More data and
investigation shall be pursued.
4. Conclusions
A technique for generation of high-speed
droplets, nominally up to 20 m/s, has been
preliminarily developed and tested. Different
from conventional methods such as vibration of
piezoelectric diaphragms [6, 10] or creation of
multiple droplets due to Rayleigh instability
either via wave modulation [1, 5] or naturally [3,
4, 12] during free dripping, by which the droplet
speed is on the order of 1 m/s, the method is
based on the cutting of a high-speed jet, which
can be easily generated by the procession of a
piston equipped on an air cylinder. While the jet
speed can be accelerated to higher than 50 m/s,
formation of spherical droplets is limited by the
oscillation that is manifested with large droplets
(D1 mm), and the drag force that exerts larger
retardation when small droplets are created. So
far the highest Weber number we have obtained
for moderately stable droplets is about 4500.
More effort shall be pursued to extend the limit.
We have tested the regimes of collision
outcomes for a droplet upon a dry surface, a film
(with H around 1 as We 3000 and about 4 as
We > 3000), and a pool (with H >> 1),
respectively. The transition boundaries between
the regimes are indeed varied as H is changed,
on the order of 1 or less. More detailed
variations of the structure and associated
transformation of collision consequence will be
studied in a more systematic way.
5. Comments
Though we have built up an experimental setup
for generating high-speed droplets as we
initially proposed, the progress is still behind
our original expectation. We will be working for
larger Weber number, which however would be
limited by the inherent physical mechanisms.
Different approached shall also be investigated.
Reference
1. Adam, J. R., Lindblad, N. R. and Hendricks,
C. D. The collision, coalescence, and
disruption of water droplets. J. Appl. Phys.
39, 5173 (1968).
2. Eggers, J. Nonlinear dynamics and breakup
of free-surface flows. Rev. Mod. Phys. 69,
865 (1997).
3. Hobbs, P. V. and Kezweeny A. J. Splashing
of a water drop. Science 155, 1112 (1967).
4. Hobbs, P. V. and Osheroff T. O. Splashing of
drops on shallow liquids. Science 158,
1184 (1967).
5. Jayaratne, O. W. and Mason, B. J. The
coalescence and bouncing of water drops at
an air/water interface. Proc. R. Soc. Lond.
A 280, 545 (1964).
6. Jiang, Y. J., Umemura A. and Law, C. K. An
experimental investigation on the collision
behaviour of hydrocarbon droplets. J.
Fluid Mech. 234, 171 (1992).
7. Pan, K. L. and Law, C. K. On the dynamics
of head-on droplet collision: experiment
and simulation. 42nd AIAA Aerospace
Sciences Meeting & Exhibit, Reno, 2004,
AIAA Paper No. 1159. Experimental and
mechanistic description of merging and
bouncing in head-on binary droplet
collision. Submitted to Phys. Fluids, 2006.
8. Pan, K. L. Dynamics of droplet collision and
flame-front motion. Ph.D. thesis, Princeton
University, 2004.
9. Pan, K. L. and Law, C. K. Dynamics of
droplet-film collision. 43rd AIAA
Aerospace Sciences Meeting & Exhibit,
Reno, 2005, Paper No. AIAA-2005-0352.
Submitted to J. Fluid Mech.
10. Qian, J. and Law, C. K. Regimes of
coalescence and separation in droplet
collision. J. Fluid Mech. 331, 59 (1997).
11. Rein, M. Phenomena of liquid drop impact
on solid and liquid surfaces. Fluid Dyn. Res.
12, 61 (1993).
12. Rodriguez, F. and Mesler, R. Some drops
don’t splash. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 106,
347 (1985).
13. Worthington, A. M. A Study of Splashes,
Longmans, Green, London, 1908.
6Figure 2. The images of droplets generated with different rotation rate of the cutting disk, which were
captured by a high-speed camera at the locations immediately below the disk (3cm), a little
downstream (6cm), in the middle, and before the target plate, respectively shown from the upper
panel to the bottom panel with rotation speed of the disk: (a) 630 rpm; (b) 1833 rpm; (c) 2167 rpm.
(a) (b) (c)
