 
 
Fig. 1  Functional block of converter. 
 
 
Fig. 2  Circuit operation flow chart. 
 
current of 400 mA.  The converter can operate with a low 
quiescent current of 122uA. The operation flow is shown 
in Fig. 2. 
 
II.  Operation Modes  
 
When the regulator is started (ENABLE=1 in this 
moment), the converter enter Soft-Start operation first.   .  
 
Soft-Start operation:  The principle of the soft start is to 
generate PWM signal with gradually and slowly 
increased width, which is then used as the driving signal 
of the desired devices needing to be driven. Therefore the 
driven devices operate slowly and smoothly to reach their 
steady states. The purpose of the soft start circuit in the 
switching voltage regulator is to prevent the occurrence 
of the harmful surge current in the power stage, which 
may damage the devices of the power stage. Due to the 
charging of capacitor, the Vramp voltage is gradually 
increased. This ramp voltage then compares with a 
sawtooth wave Vsaw, and produces a gradually increased  
 
 
Fig. 3：Schematics of  PWM and PFM modulators. 
 
pulse width chain. These pulses control the power MOS 
and compress the transient current lower than 460mA.The 
soft-start circuit can prevent the circuit damage from 
large transient current.  
  
PWM Mode: The PWM modulator consists of comparator 
and a SR flip-flop. The PWM modulator circuit is shown 
in Fig. 3. The negative input terminal of comparator is 
connected to er_out which is the output of 
the error amplifier, and the positive input terminal of 
comparator is connected to Vsaw which is from the 
sawtooth oscillator. The clock signal is generated from 
sawtooth oscillator. In heavy load, the analog transient 
voltage er_out is higher than Vsaw. The comparator 
output goes low. The converter will increase output signal 
PWM by turning on the PMOS and turning off NMOS in 
the power stage. When voltage er_out is lower than Vsaw, 
the converter will turn off PMOS and turn on NMOS. The 
current sensing circuit detects the inductance current from 
PMOS. 
 
PFM Mode: The PFM modulator circuit diagram is 
shown in Fig. 3. It consists of two comparators and a SR 
flip-flop. The Vbias1 is the output voltage of constant-
Gm circuit and Vref is the bandgap reference voltage. 
The error signal changes with loads. Since er_out changes 
with  output voltage Vout of the power stage, the er_out 
may reach to Vref or Vbias1 while Vout is too low or too 
high respectively. If er_out becomes larger than Vbias1, 
the output of Comp2 goes high and it makes the output Q 
of SR FF set high; if er_out becomes lower than Vref, the 
output of Comp1 goes high and it resets Q to low. This 
process is somehow like a hysteric comparator. This 
operation can shut down sawtooth generator and PFM 
detector with counter at the same time. This function can 
reduce the dynamic power loss and improve power 
efficiency to 96%. In order to prevent direction the 
inductance current changed of output capacitor and 
reduced the efficiency of regulator because this action 
prevent the output capacitor discharges, it has joined the 
function of zero current detector (ZCD). The function of 
ZCD is to turn off power stage of NMOS (PMOS is 
closed already) when Iout is smaller than the half of peak-  
 
Fig.7   Schematic of the zero current detector. 
 
node VC and the first-stage output of the error amplifier,  
and hence the stability of the sensing circuit has to be 
considered. The two poles (one at node VC and one at the 
first-stage output of the error amplifier) due to the error 
amplifier are well-separated in frequency domain by 
Miller compensation. Moreover, the impedance at V- is 
always low as the effective resistance is small due to MP2, 
which is a switch with low on-resistance. Therefore, the 
pole at node V- can be neglected at different sensing 
currents[6]. 
 
C.     Zero Current Detector： 
The DCM occurs at light load that the outI is smaller 
than the half of peak-to-peak LI  ripple. In synchronous 
rectification, there is a difference from conventional 
diode rectification. Since the power N_MOSFET N1 in 
the power stage is turned on in the discharge phase until 
the end of the switching cycle. Therefore, LI  discharges 
down to zero and then begins to flow from the output 
outV  of power stage to ground through the turned on N1. 
This action dissipates extra power loss by discharging the 
output capacitor of the power stage and it is unwanted if 
the high efficient power conversion is desired. The 
strategy is to turn off N1 while LI  reaches zero and starts 
to flow reversely. As a result, the zero current detector is 
designed to detect the zero current condition of LI . Fig. 7 
shows the circuit diagram of the zero current detector. 
The zero current detector consists of a comparator 
Comp, a SR flip flop, and an AND gate. When LI  downs 
to zero and start to flow reversely, the voltage DSV  of N1 
will increase gradually greater than zero. At this instance, 
Comp detects this voltage and then transmits a signal 
accommodating the driving signal DRIVE to turn of N1 
as soon as possible. The result signal is MN_off. As a 
result, there is no path for LI  to flow from outV  to ground 
and this action looks like the diode rectification. Then the 
unwanted power loss is eliminated and the energy is 
saved. 
 
VI. Measurement Results 
 
This dual-mode DC-DC buck converter has been 
implemented with a standard 0.35-um CMOS process. Its 
micrograph is shown in Fig. 8. The size of this chip is 
1.89 mm x 1.89 mm. The component values and 
reference voltages are shown in Table I. The converter is 
supplied with an input voltage of 3 V and switching 
frequency of 1 MHz. The measurement results of  
inductor current are shown in Fig. 9 for the cases of  load 
current  with 13 mA.  Since the load current is under 100 
mA, it is operated in the PFM mode. Fig. 10  shows the 
output  voltage and drive voltage of converter for load 
current of 300 mA. The duty ratio is larger than 0.5. The 
current sensing circuit functions well. The error of  
sensing current is 3 mA less than the designed value of 
100 mA. This error mainly comes from the mismatch of  
transistors in the sensing circuit. The results show that the 
converter regulates properly for different duty ratios 
without any subharmonic oscillation. 
The efficiency of this converter is shown in Fig. 11  
with the input voltage of  3~5 V and the output voltage of 
1.8 V.  The maximum efficiency is 95% at load current of  
50 mA which is in the PFM mode. In the PWM mode, the 
maximum efficiency is 94% at loading current of  100 
mA. This converter can have efficiency higher than 85% 
for a wide output current range from 3 to 400 mA. In 
PWM mode, conduction loss is dominant and efficiencies 
decreases when loading current increases.  The results 
show that the converter operates properly in both PFM 
and PWM modes.  The performance of converter is 
summarized in Table I.   The maximum output current of 
this converter is 460 mA. The output ripple voltages are 
20 mV and 34 mV in PWM and PFM modes, respectively.  
 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
A high-efficiency dual-mode DC-DC buck converter is 
designed with TSMC 0.35um CMOS process. 
Experimental results show that the converter regulates 
properly with a ultra-wide output current of 3 mA to 400 
mA for efficiency higher than 85%. Smart power saving 
strategy is designed to reduce the quiescent current 
dissipation in the PFM mode.  The accurately current 
sensing technique is used for load-dependent mode-
hopping schemes for optimizing power efficiency and for 
reducing the complexity of the converter design.  
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT   
The authors thank National Science Council and Chip 
Implementation Center of R.O.C. for its sponsorship of 
the research project.          
 
REFERENCE 
[1]  R.W. Erickson,  and D. Maksimovic , “Fundamentals 
of Power Electronics”. Norwell, MA: Kluwer, 2001. 
[2]  D.W. Hart, “Introduction To Power   Electronics,” 3 
Edition, Prentice Hall, 1997. 
[3] R. D. Middlebrook, “Small-Signal Modeling of 
   Pulse-Width Modulated Switching-Mode Power 
Converters,” Proceedings Of The IEEE, Vol. 76, 
No.4, pp.343-354, April 1988.  
[4]  C.F. Lee and P. K. T. Mok,” A  Monolithic Current-
Mode CMOS DC–DC Converter With On-Chip 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號  95-2221-E-305-010- 
計畫名稱 可攜式無線通訊系統中高效率低雜訊動態雙調變模式電源管理晶片之研製 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
國立臺北大學電機工程研究所 劉萬榮副教授 
會議時間地點  日本福岡  July 11 – July 13, 2007 
會議名稱  2007 International Conference on Communications, Circuits and Systems 
發表論文題目  A  High Efficiency Dual-Mode Buck Converter IC For Portable Applications
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
2007年通信與電路系統國際會議於 2007年 7月 11日到 7月 13日之間於日
本福岡縣小倉市北九州國際會議中心召開，主要議程集中在 7月 11、12日及 7
月 13 日這三天，7 月 11 日為報到及開幕茶會，7 月 12 號為最佳論文頒獎。由
中國四川電子科技大學、香港大學、香港科技大學及日本東京早稻田大學，由
IEEE技術上共同贊助。參加本次研討會的有中國、日本、美國、台灣及澳洲等
國家，共有 400餘人參加這次的會議，筆者與兩位博士班學生參加此次會議。 
這次會議所涵蓋的主題包括：通信理論、無線通信、計算機通信和網路、
光學和寬頻通信、多媒體信號處理和通信、理論和方法信號處理、網絡和計算
智力、電路和系統的設計和實施。利用會後與其他論文作者討論。除了筆者本
身的議程外，也參加了一些和筆者研究有關議程，包括通信理論、網路、光學
和寬頻通信。整個會議於 7 月 13 日下午五時閉幕，筆者於 7 月 14 日上午搭機
自福岡返台，結束四天的會議行程。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
參加本次的研討會給我最大的收穫就是超寬頻技術的演進技術，及設計電
路的研究上給我很多的啟發，另外收穫應該就是與其他學者交流。目前國科會
與教育部相當鼓勵博士班學生出國參加會議，因此提供各種經費供博士班學生
申請，出國參加國際會議之訓練，對博士班學生而言，相當的有意義，不但擴
