 
Editor, 
Journal of Hazardous Materials 
April 4, 2006 
 
Dear Editor: 
 
We submit the enclosed manuscript, "Evaluation of the effectiveness of personal 
protective equipment against occupational exposure to N, N-dimethylformamide 
" for your consideration for publication in  Journal of Hazardous Materials.  The 
work is original and not published or submitted elsewhere.  We all contributed to the 
design, operation, and interpretation of the studies, exchanged drafts, and all approved 
the final version.  None of us have any relevant financial interests to disclose. 
 
Respiratory route and dermal route are two major routes for hazardous materials 
administering into our humans in the occupational environment. Very limited studies, 
however, have been conducted to investigate the respective contribution administered 
into the body via these two routes. On the other hand, the gloves have extensively 
used in occupational environments because they provide the capability to effectively 
reduce skin exposure and protect the skin from injury. Although the impermeable 
rubber gloves have demonstrated that the ability to reduce the skin exposure was 
significantly higher than that of cotton gloves, they are not feasibly popular in the 
actually occupational settings because of their discomfort and inconvenience during 
work. There is a need to consider other alternatives in skin protective equipment. This 
study used the workers occupationally exposed to N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) to 
determine the protective effectiveness of various personal protective equipment and 
the respective exposure contributions between respiratory and dermal routes. 
Moreover, we used a self-comparison study design to minimize the inter-individual 
variability in biological monitoring. Journal of Hazardous Materials has published 
quite a few related articles and has raised substantial attentions. We believe the 
findings derived from this study will be of great interest to the Journal's general 
readers.  
 
All authors have read the manuscript and are in agreement that the work is ready for 
submission to a journal and that they accept the responsibility for the manuscript's 
contents.   
 
Ho-Yuan Chang will be the correspondent autho for this work. His address is 8 
Sheng-Li Road, Tainan, 70428, TAIWAN; phone +886-6-2378754(Business), fax 
+886-6-274-3748, and his email address is h7154@mail.ncku.edu.tw. 
 
 
Cover Letter
 1 
Title: Evaluation of the effectiveness of personal protective equipment 
against occupational exposure to N, N-dimethylformamide 
Short title: Effectiveness of the PPE for DMF 
Authors: S-M Wang1, T-S Shih2, Y-S Huang3, M-R Chueh3, J-S Chou2, H-Y Chang1 
Authors’ affiliations:  
1Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, Medical College, National 
Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan;  
2Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, Council of Labor Affairs, Taipei, Taiwan; 
3Center for Environmental, Safety and Health Technology, Industrial Technology 
Research Institute, Hsin Chu, Taiwan, Republic of China 
Ethical issues related to this work: This study protocol was approved by the 
Institutional Review Board of the Medical College, National Cheng Kung University, 
before the research started. Each participant read and signed the consent forms before 
the study began.   
Word Counts: Abstract: 199, Text: 4,086, References: 609. 
Containing: 5 tables and 2 figures 
Disclosure : There are no relevant financial interests to disclose.   
* Manuscript
 3 
1. Introduction 
N, N-dimethylformamide (DMF) is widely used in various industries because of 
its complete miscibility with water and most organic solvents. The potentially exposed 
workers and the lowest observed adverse effect level (LOAEL) of DMF estimated by 
National Occupational Exposure Survey (NOES) and National Toxicology Program 
(NTP) were over 100,000 workers and less than 250 mg/kg/day. Therefore DMF has 
been identified as one of four chemicals with the highest priority for human field study 
[1]. 
 
The major health effects after exposure to DMF include alcohol intolerance [2-4], 
hepatotoxicity [5, 6], male reproductive cancers, possible embryotoxicity, teratogenicity 
in humans and animals [7-9], and sperm motility perturbation in humans [10]. 
 
DMF could be administered to humans through the skin or inhalation. A study 
conducted by volunteers in an exposure chamber reported that about 40.36% of the total 
DMF uptake was attributed to dermal absorption [11]. Another study conducted in the 
field concluded that dermal exposure provided a substantial contribution to the total 
DMF body burden [12]. Therefore, effectively reducing skin exposure to such a potent 
skin penetrant like DMF becomes an important issue in occupational health. 
 
The DMF skin absorption could originate from vapor exposure and direct skin 
contact to DMF liquid in the actual occupational setting. A previous study demonstrated 
that the number of DMF biomarkers in urine after the sole one hand was immersed in 
pure DMF solution for 15 min was similar to that after exposure to 60 mg/m3 (2*TLV) 
 5 
2. Experimental/Materials and methods 
 
2.1 The orientation of the manufacturing process and the subject recruitment and 
classification  
 
A factory located in Southern Taiwan in the production of synthetic leather sheets 
was selected for this study. In the synthetic leather manufacturing procedure, dry and 
wet processes are classified based on the way solvent are expelled from the products, 
although both processes are virtually the same. In the wet process raw materials, resin, 
dyes and cellulose are mixed homogeneously and dissolved in a solvent containing only 
water and DMF (Mixing). The mixture is then applied onto a base-textile made of 
cotton, man-made cotton, or polyester sheet. The coated textile is then washed with 
water several times to remove the residual solvents (Coating). The product of the wet 
process (coated textile) is then further used in the dry process. Dry process mixing is 
similar to that in the wet process except that the solvents are a mixture of DMF, methyl 
ethyl ketone, and tolune, instead of DMF and water. The mixture is then applied onto 
the wet process coated textile (Coating) and then heated in an oven to remove the 
solvents. The products achieved from wet and dry processes are then examined and 
further color and surface texture modified by adding pigments and/or mounting 
materials to accommodate the individual customers’ requests (Post treatment). Basically, 
DMF exposure is the highest in the “Coating” process because it involves an open 
operation with a heating condition. The second highest exposure is in the “Mixing” 
process because it involves a vigorous rotation procedure. DMF evaporation in 
“Mixing” is not as high as in “Coating” because the former occurs in an enclosed 
 7 
has been approved by WorkCover NSW - Approval Number 2142) were used on the 
second, third and fourth experiment days respectively. The rubber gloves and respirator 
were used only in the higher DMF exposure task, such as DMF liquid contact. 
Moreover, in order to evaluate the effectiveness more accurately we observed the work 
process for each worker and recorded the task details and the frequency of using 
solvents and PPE. We excluded several workers that exhibited little willingness to 
follow the experimental strategy, wearing PPE during work and asking for leave during 
the experiment period. Finally, only ten workers were used in the daily analysis (Table 
1). 
 
2.3. Calculation of the contribution of total body burden from different exposure routes 
 
All of the DMF-exposed workers were expected to have high and low DMF 
exposure via skin and inhalation exposure routes. According to different exposure 
routes and exposure types, high and low DMF exposure, the total body burden (TBB) 
could be contributed from high and low DMF exposure via both skin and inhalation 
routes. The TBB contribution equations are shown in Table 2. The contribution from 
different exposure routes was calculated using these equations. 
 
2.4 Environment monitoring 
 
The sampling and analytical methods previously published by our group were 
adopted in this study [12]. A passive air sampler containing activated charcoal (3M Co., 
Model 3500, St Paul, USA) was used to monitor the eight-hour time weighted average 
 9 
3. Results  
 
3.1 Environmental monitoring  
 
Airborne DMF concentrations across four consecutive days showed the 
concentration ranges were group-dependent (Fig. 1). The high exposure concentrations 
were consistently highest, following by the intermediate, and the low exposure the 
lowest. The airborne DMF concentrations for high DMF exposure workers (n=2) across 
four working days were 16.21 ± 1.21 ppm; 16.54 ± 1.54 ppm; 16.95 ± 4.17 ppm and 
16.26 ± 2.23 ppm (mean ± SD), respectively, which were all higher than the permissible 
exposure limit (10 ppm). For the intermediate and low exposure groups (n=4 in both 
groups), they were 3.90 ± 1.27 ppm; 6.26 ± 2.27 ppm; 4.75 ± 2.16 ppm and 4.66 ± 1.31 
ppm, as well as 0.47 ± 0.15 ppm; 0.25 ± 0.12 ppm; 1.73 ± 2.02 ppm and 2.82 ± 2.69 
ppm. Although, in general, there were no statistical differences across four days in 
airborne DMF concentrations except for the low exposure group, in which the 
variability across the 4 days were substantial. Moreover, the concentrations for the third 
and the fourth days were significantly higher than those for the second day (p<0.05). 
This suggested that higher variations of airborne DMF concentrations for low DMF 
exposure workers than high and intermediate DMF exposure workers. 
 
3.2 Biological monitoring 
 
With the urinary NMF (U-NMF) concentrations distribution across four days, the 
highest concentrations were observed on day 1 for the high-, intermediate- exposure 
 11 
were about 25%, 45%, and 35%, respectively. For the low DMF exposure group, they 
were 70%, 20% and -30%, respectively. This suggested that applying barrier cream 
could provide highest protection from DMF exposure when the DMF exposure was 
high (i.e., A-DMF> PEL) or low (i.e., A-DMF < 2 ppm) and the protection 
effectiveness could be even better than the wearing rubber gloves, almost equivalent to 
the impermeable gloves plus respirator. When the DMF exposure at intermediate levels 
(i.e., A-DMF about 5 ppm), wearing rubber gloves would be the most effective measure 
to reduce the exposure. 
 
3.3 Total body contribution via skin and inhalation exposure 
 
The U-NMF concentrations in day 1 (without wearing any PPE) subtracting day 3 
(only wearing rubber gloves) for the same individual were used to evaluate the 
contribution of U-NMF in the body from skin DMF exposure in high exposure tasks 
(Cskin-H). In the same analogue, the U-NMF in day 3 subtracting day 4 (wearing 
rubber gloves + respirator) were used to evaluate the contribution of U-NMF in the 
body from respiratory DMF exposure in high exposure tasks (Cskin-H). Finally, 
U-NMF concentrations on day 4 were used to evaluate the contribution from both skin 
and respiratory DMF exposures in low exposure tasks (Ckin-L + Cinh-L). For high 
exposure group, the contribution to individual U-NMF for skin exposure in high 
exposure tasks of 41%, was similar to that from both skin and inhalation exposures in 
the low exposure tasks (40%), higher than that inhalation in high exposure tasks (18%) 
(Table 4). Due to the U-NMF in day 3 lower than day 4 in both intermediate and low 
exposure groups, negative contributions in the calculation of inhalation in high exposure 
 13 
To evaluate the protective effectiveness for various PPE, adjusted protective 
effectiveness index (PEI adj) was used to reduce the effect of different airborne DMF 
concentration during the experiment periods. Therefore the ratio of urinary NMF 
concentration to airborne DMF concentration was used to calculate the adjusted PEI. 
The equation is shown below: 
 
PEI adj (%) = {[(U-NMF without PPE / A-DMF day 1) – (U-NMF with PPE / A-DMF 
day i)] / (U-NMF without PPE / A-DMF day 1)}* 100 
 
The PEI results showed that applying barrier cream during the work shift could 
provide 40% effectiveness to prevent DMF exposure. Wearing rubber gloves and rubber 
gloves plus a respirator could provide 49% and 57% effectiveness to prevent DMF 
exposure, respectively. Because DMF exposure could vary depending on the different 
tasks in occupational settings, the PEI values were calculated in different DMF 
exposure scenarios including high, intermediate and low DMF exposure workers to 
evaluate the effectiveness of various PPE in different exposure groups. For the high 
exposure group, applying barrier cream during work shift could provide 62% 
effectiveness to prevent DMF exposure. Wearing rubber gloves and rubber gloves plus 
a respirator could provide 45% and 59% effectiveness to prevent DMF exposure, 
respectively. The variations in PEI values, however, were higher for the intermediate 
and low exposure groups. Applying barrier cream at work could provide 40% and 29% 
effectiveness. Wearing rubber gloves could provide 36% and 63% effectiveness. 
Wearing rubber gloves plus a respirator could provide 37% and 75% effectiveness for 
intermediate and low exposure group, respectively. The above mentioned findings have 
 15 
4. Discussion 
 
The protective effectiveness for various personal using protective equipments has 
been evaluated using biological monitoring results, e.g., contaminant levels in urine or 
in blood for the studies using human subjects. The biological monitoring assessment 
methodology, however, has inevitable limitations from the wide inter-individual 
variability. Therefore, these findings are easily undermined by the substantial noise 
subsequently toward to the null or raising the criticism in comparability in the study 
subjects. In this study, the protective effectiveness among various scenarios was 
evaluated based on urinary biomarkers collected from the identical individuals with 
repeated measurement. The incomparability of the subject and the consideration in the 
wide inter-individual variability could be eliminated to an acceptable degree. 
 
Given A-DMF concentrations were quite constant and stable across four 
consecutive days for high and intermediate exposure groups (Fig. 1), U-NMF 
concentrations consistently showed decreases to different degrees on day 2 (barrier 
cream), day 3 (impermeable gloves) and day 4 (impermeable gloves plus respirator) 
compared with the day 1 (without any PPE)( Table 3 and Fig. 2,). This suggested that 
wearing kind of personal protective equipment would reduce 25%-60% of the DMF 
body burden exposure for the high and intermediate exposure groups in the 
occupational settings. For the low exposure group wearing rubber gloves plus a 
respirator seem to increase the total body burden of U-NMF (130%; Fig. 2), possibly 
due to an apparently high A-DMF concentration in Day 4. In general, the PPE against 
dermal exposure, including applying barrier cream and wearing rubber gloves, were 
 17 
40% of the DMF exposure, and about 62% and 40% of DMF exposure for high and 
intermediate exposure groups respectively. This is more effective than rubber gloves. 
Chang and colleagues investigated the effectiveness of rubber gloves and cotton gloves 
to prevent 2-methoxyethanol (2-ME) exposure. In that study the protective effectiveness 
indices (PEI) for the biomarkers of 2-ME in plasma and urine were measured and the 
result indicated that rubber gloves could provide the best protective effectiveness. They 
could reduce about 75% and 69% , for urine and plasma PEI respectively, of 
2-methoxyethanol exposure [14]. This was higher than the results of this study. Due to 
inconvenience and uncomfortable properties of rubber gloves, they are usually used 
only during some specific task and provide limited effectiveness. The results from Table 
4 also demonstrated that the exposure from low exposure tasks in this study accounted 
for 40%-58% in high- and intermediate-exposure groups. This is the reason why barrier 
cream could be more effective than wearing rubber gloves plus a respirator because 
rubber gloves and respirator are only worn during high exposure tasks. Once the barrier 
cream is applied, it can build up a diffusion barrier against hazardous agents for both 
high and low exposure situations. This could at least partially explain why protective 
cream in this case could provide more PEI than gloves. Therefore applying barrier 
cream before work could be an alternative method to reduce DMF exposure in 
occupational settings. 
 
Facing with the hazardous materials with substantial skin absorption potential in the 
occupational environment, wearing gloves as the personal protective equipment (PPE) 
is a popular measure for the workers to prevent from the hazards. The effectiveness 
evaluation among various PPE has been investigated in the previous studies. Various 
 19 
from the skin penetrates like DMF in the occupational settings (Table 5). The success of 
using barrier creams in this case does not, however, warrant the recommendation of the 
general application of the barrier creams in reducing the skin penetrates in the worksite. 
The effectiveness of a barrier cream depends on the basis of the skin barrier formulation, 
the chemical penetrates, as well as the skin conditions [23]. Further studies 
incorporating more thorough considerations to reach a more conclusive finding were 
warranted. 
 
5. Conclusion  
 
In summary, we found the respective contribution of total body burden from skin 
and inhalation exposure route and identified that prevention of skin exposure in high 
exposure task could reduce major DMF exposure. We also demonstrated that the barrier 
cream can serve as a good measure to effectively diminish the skin-absorption 
chemicals like DMF in the occupational setting given it is more convenient to the 
workers.  Further studies incorporating more thorough considerations to reach a more 
conclusive finding are warranted. 
 21 
Perspect. 1 (1997) 305-307. 
[8] P.A. Fail, J.D. George, T.B. Grizzle, J.J. Heindel, Formamide and 
dimethylformamide: reproductive assessment by continuous breeding in mice, 
Reprod. Toxicol. 12 (1998) 317-332. 
[9] E. Hansen, O. Meyer, Embryotoxicity and teratogenicity study in rats dosed 
epicutaneously with dimethylformamide (DMF), J. Appl. Toxicol. 10 (1990) 
333-338. 
[10] H.Y. Chang, T.S. Shih, Y.L. Guo, C.Y. Tsai, P.C. Hsu, Sperm function in 
workers exposed to N,N-dimethylformamide in the synthetic leather industry, 
Fertil. Steril. 81 (2004) 1589-1594. 
[11] T. Nomiyama, H. Nakashima, L.L. Chen, S. Tanaka, H. Miyauchi, T. Yamauchi, 
H. Sakurai, K. Omae, N,N-dimethylformamide: significance of dermal 
absorption and adjustment method for urinary N-methylformamide 
concentration as a biological exposure item, Int. Arch. Occup. Environ. Health 
74 (2001) 224-228. 
[12] H.Y. Chang, C.Y. Tsai, Y.Q. Lin, T.S. Shih, Y.C. Lin, Urinary biomarkers of 
occupational N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) exposure attributed to the dermal 
exposure, J. Expo. Anal. Environ. Epidemiol. 14 (2004) 214-221. 
[13] J. Mraz, H. Nohova, Percutaneous absorption of N,N-dimethylformamide in 
humans, Int. Arch. Occup. Environ. Health 64 (1992) 79-83. 
[14] H.Y. Chang, C.C. Lin, T.S. Shih, H. Chan, J.S. Chou, Y.S. Huang, Evaluation of 
the protective effectiveness of gloves from occupational exposure to 
2-methoxyethanol using the biomarkers of 2-methoxyacetic acid levels in the 
urine and plasma, Occup. Environ. Med. 61 (2004) 697-702. 
 23 
 
 0
5
10
15
20
25
30
1 2 3 4
week day
Ai
rb
or
ne
 D
M
F 
co
nc
en
tra
tio
n 
(p
pm
)
High DMF exposure
Intermediate DMF exposure
Low DMF exposure
  
Fig. 1. by S.M. Wang, et al 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table list and legends: 
Table 1. Demographic information and the exposure characteristics for ten selected workers from the synthetic leather factory in this study 
a The workers were classified into three exposure groups: high, intermediate, and low based on their main job. “High exposure” and 
“Intermediate” groups were defined as the workers whose main tasks (over 50 % in their total working hours) were “Coating” and 
“Mixing”, respectively. Other workers were grouped into “Low exposure” if their main job was “Post treatment”. 
b The task-time allocation for each worker was completed by recording their time proportion as “high exposure task” if his tasks 
were “Coating” or “Mixing” and as “low exposure task” if his task was “Post treatment”. 
Table 2. The conditions of wearing personal protective equipment on four consecutive days and their exposure scenarios 
1 H: high exposure task; 2 L: low exposure task; 3 Cskin: total body burden concentration contributed from skin exposure; 4 Cinh: 
total body burden concentration contributed from inhalation exposure. 
5 Equation for calculation of total body burden contribution: 
Cskin-P: [Cskin-P + Cskin-R + Cinh-P + Cinh-R (week day 1)]-[ Cskin-R + Cinh-P + Cinh-R (week day 3)] 
Cinh-P: [ Cskin-R + Cinh-P + Cinh-R (week day 3)]-[ Cskin-R + Cinh-R (week day 4)] 
Table 3 Concentrations of urinary NMF (mg/l) across four consecutive days for the workers among the three groups 
1 PPE: personal protective equipment 
Table 4. The contribution of different exposure routes with high/low DMF exposure task to U-NMF and adjusted U-NMF 
Table(s)
exposure group. 
 
Table 2. by S.M. Wang, et al 
weekday PPE scenario Exposure route and type1,2 Total body burden 3,4,5(urine concentration, mg/L) 
Skin: H and L 
1 Without wearing any PPE 
Inhalation: H and L 
Cskin-H + Cskin-H + Cinh-L + Cinh-L 
Skin: unexposed 
2 Applying barrier cream 
Inhalation: H and L 
 
Skin: L 
3 Wearing rubber gloves in high exposure task 
Inhalation: H and L 
Cskin-L + Cinh-H + Cinh-L 
Skin: L 
4 
Wearing rubber gloves plus respirator in high 
exposure task Inhalation: L 
Cskin-L +        Cinh-L 
 
Table 4. by S.M. Wang, et al 
 
Subject Exposure route and 
type1,2,3 
U-NMF (mg．L-1)4 Contribution to 
U-NMF (%)5 
Adjusted U-NMF 
(mg．L-1．ppm-1)6 
Contribution to 
adjusted U-NMF (%)7 
Cskin-H 13.48 ± 3.69 41.3 0.77 ± 0.35 37.8 
Cinh-H 6.05 ± 10.87 18.5 0.44 ± 0.83 21.5 High-exposure 
group (n=2) 
Cskin-L + Cinh-L 13.12 ± 3.27 40.2 0.83 ± 0.32 40.7 
Cskin-H 4.96 ± 5.11 46.5 1.06 ± 1.34 38.6 
Cinh-H -1.27 ± 5.12 -11.9 0.10 ± 1.35 3.6 Mid-exposure 
group (n=4) 
Cskin-L + Cinh-L 6.97 ± 2.19 65.4 1.59 ± 0.66 57.8 
Cskin-H 0.56 ± 0.72 18.9 3.97 ± 0.76 60.2 
Cinh-H -1.50 ± 3.89 -50.5 1.03 ± 2.11 15.6 Low-exposure 
group (n=4) 
Cskin-L + Cinh-L 3.91 ± 3.20 131.6 1.60 ± 0.30 24.2 
 
