1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
定義和分析半導體產業之電子化供應鏈系統整合之關鍵成功
因素 - 使用模糊層級分析法(I) 
Define and Evaluate Key Success Factors for e-supply Chain 
System Integration in Semiconductor Industry Using Fuzzy 
Analytic Hierarchy Process (I) 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC98-2218-E-027-007 
執 行 期 限：98年 08月 01日至 99年 07月 31日 
主 持 人：盧大平 國立臺北科技大學工業工程與管理系 
計畫參與人員：碩士班研究生 林育玲, 劉唐佐  國立臺北科技大學工業工程
與管理系 
一、中文摘要 
本研究之目的在定義和分析半導體產業之電子化供應鏈系統整合之關鍵成功因素
(KSF)。本研究是以曾經實際參與台灣積體電路製造公司(TSMC)與日月光半導體公司(ASE)
間成功的電子化供應鏈系統整合專案之中高階經理人的實務經驗為基礎。本研究預計為期三
年而本年度為第一年。本年度透過文獻探討以及對長期參與上述專案之中高階經理人進行訪
談，獲取半導體業兩大全世界領導廠商之電子化供應鏈系統整合之成功經驗，據此建立電子
化供應鏈系統整合在系統建置階段與系統營運階段之完整的關鍵成功因素之層級化架構。在
本計畫的第二年與第三年，將根據本年度所發展出之關鍵成功因素之層級化架構，對參與上
述專案之中高階經理人進行問卷調查，並利用模糊層級分析法找出各關鍵成功因素之相對權
重。 
 
關鍵詞：電子化供應鏈系統整合；關鍵成功因素；模糊層級分析法；半導體產業 
Abstract 
The current research focus on define and evaluate key successful factors for e-supply chain 
integration. This research leverages experiences gathered form managers and executives who 
actively participated in the real world project, which successfully established seamless e-supply 
chain integration between Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and Advanced 
Semiconductor Engineering, Inc. (ASE). A three-year research project was proposed. In the first 
year which is the current year, this research has defined complete hierarchies of key successful 
factors for e-supply chain integration during system implementation phases and system operation 
3 
key successful factors. The resulting weightings of the key successful factors from FAHP analysis 
may serve as critical decision support information to project executives for decision making. An 
example will be to allocate limited or critical project recourses to assure the sound status of key 
successful factors with higher weightings, which are most crucial to the success of the project. Both 
the resulting hierarchies of key successful factors and their associated weightings can serve as 
summary of “best practices” for future project executives and academics in related research fields to 
learn about past successful experiences from world’s leading semiconductor companies. 
 
3. Research processes and results 
A two-step approach was undertaken to construct the hierarchies of key success factors for 
supply chain management system implementation and operation. Sections 3.1. and 3.2. describe 
these two steps while section 3.3. presents the resulting hierarchies. 
 
3.1. Step1 – Literature Review to Construct the Initial KSF Hierarchy 
A literature review was performed to construct the initial KSF hierarchy as the focus group 
discussions foundation. However, according to Gunasekaran and Ngai [1], few research 
publications directly relate to the success factors of a SCM system. To be comprehensive, the 
literature review encompassed the field of supply chain management, operation management, and 
information systems and management for related SCM KSFs. The following paragraph summarizes 
some of the publications reviewed in the current study. 
Fawcett, Magnan and McCarter [2] conducted a literature review, cross-functional mail survey, 
and 51 in-depth case analyses of supply chain integration and summarized the success and 
hindering factors for supply chain management. Gunasekaran and Ngai [3] presented four major 
areas of decision-making for build-to-order supply chains; i.e., organizational competitiveness, 
development and implementation, operation, and information technology. They also sub-classified 
critical factors within these four areas. Another study by Gunasekaran and Ngai [4] reviewed and 
classified previous publications regarding information technology in supply chain management. 
This study presents a framework that identifies the key area of focus in applying information 
technology to supply chain management. Liu, Zhang and Hu [5] performed a case study of an 
inter-enterprise workflow-supported supply chain system and presented the key success factors of 
supply chain management based on experiences and lessons learned. Bose, Pal and Ye [6] presented 
a case study of enterprise resource planning (ERP) and supply chain management integration in 
China.   
The current study collects forty eight previously published key success factors and categorizes 
them into initial dimensions as a foundation for focus group discussions in step 2. 
 
5 
system implementation consists of four dimensions: strategy, process, organization, and technical. 
Fifteen KSFs divide between these four dimensions. The hierarchy for SCM system operation 
consists of four dimensions: Strategy, Process, Partnership, and Technical. Thirteen KSFs divide 
between these four dimensions. The reference numbers following the factors denote reference 
literatures in which the factor was originally been discussed. The relative importance of the 
dimensions and factors is not represented by the number of factors under it, nor by the number of 
reference in which it was discussed. The relative importance of these dimensions and factors will be 
analysed in the second and third year of this research. 
 
SCM 
Implementation
Strategy
Process
Technical
Top management support and commitment
Data quality and information transparency in SCM
Process and data exchange standardization
Underlying infrastructure and application readiness
Formation of a competent project team
Change management
Direct cross-organizational communication for collaboration
Joint agreement on performance and value evaluation
Supply chain partner selection
Project implementation strategy
Policies and regulations
Key business process re-engineering
Integrate process into system
Process to ensure interdepartmental cooperation
Clear goals, objectives, and business requirements
2、3、4、5、6、7、8、9、10
4、9
1、2、3、6、7、8
1、2、8
2、5
4、5、9、10、12
3、4、5、6、7、8、9、10、11
3、5、8、9、11、12
5、10、12
3、5
1、2、3、5、6、7、9、10
2、3、5、6、7、8、10、12
5、8、9、10
1、2、3、5、7、8
11
Factor ReferenceDimension
Organization
 
Fig3. Key success factors in supply chain management systems implementation 
 
Fig3. Key success factors in implementation supply chain management systems 
7 
4. Reference 
[1] Gunasekaran, A. and Ngai, E.W.T. (2005). Build-to-order supply chain management: a 
literature review and framework for development. Journal of Operations Management, 23(5), 
pp. 423-451. 
[2] S. E. Fawcett, G. M. Magnan, and M. W. McCarter, “Benefits, barriers, and bridges to 
effective supply chain management,” Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 
vol. 13 no. 1, 2008, pp. 35–48 
[3] A. Gunasekaran, and E. W. T. Ngai, “Information systems in supply chain integration and 
management,” European Journal of Operational Research, vol. 159, no. 2, 2004, pp. 269–295. 
[4] J. Liu, S. Zhang, and J. Hu, “A case study of an inter-enterprise workflow-supported supply 
chain management system,” Information & Management, vol. 42, no. 3, 2005, pp. 441–454 
[5] Bose, R. Pal, and R. Ye, “ERP and SCM systems integration: The case of a valve manufacturer 
in China,” Information & Management, vol. 45, no.  4, 2008, pp. 233–241. 
[6] J. Hammant, “Implementing a European supply chain strategy: turning vision into reality,” 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Logistics and the Management of the Supply 
Chain, Sydney, Australia, AIMM/LMA/APICS/AIPMM, 1997, pp. 95–100.  
[7] L. T. Ho, and G. C. I. Lin, “Critical success factor framework for the implementation of 
integrated-enterprise systems in the manufacturing environment,” International Journal of 
Production Research, vol. 42, no. 17, 2004, pp. 3731–3742.  
[8] J. Langley, J. Coyle, B. Gibson, R. Novack, and E. Bardi, Managing Supply Chain A Logistics 
Approach, 8th ed. CENGAGE Learning, 2008, pp. 193-195.  
[9] X. H. Lu, L. H. Huang, and M. S. H. Heng, “Critical success factors of inter-organizational 
information systems-A case study of Cisco and Xiao Tong in China,” Information & 
Management, vol. 43, no. 3, 2006, pp. 395–408.  
[10] M. Sumner, “Critical Success Factors in Enterprise Wide Information Management Systems 
Projects,” Proceedings of the 1999 ACM SIGCPR Conference on Computer Personnel 
Research, 1999, pp. 297–303.  
[11] T. Kobayashi, M. Tamaki, and N. Komoda, “Business process integration as a solution to the 
implementation of supply chain management systems,” Information & Management, vol. 40, 
no. 8, 2003, pp. 769–780.  
[12] B. N. Hwang, S. C. Chang, and H. C. Yu, “Pioneering e-supply chain integration in 
semiconductor industry: a case study,” The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing 
Technology, vol. 36, no. 7-8, 2008, pp. 825–832.  
[13] A. Gunasekaran, E.W.T. Ngai, Modeling and analysis of build-to-order supply chains, 195 (2), 
2009, pp. 319-334.   
[14] H. Stadtler, Supply chain management and advanced planning––basics, overview and 
challenges, European Journal of Operational Research 163(3), 2005, pp. 575-588.  
[15] I.J. Chen, A. Paulraj, Towards a theory of supply chain management: the constructs and 
measurements, Journal of Operations Management 22(2), 2004, pp. 119-150.  
[16] C. Zhanga, J. Dhaliwal, An investigation of resource-based and institutional theoretic factors in 
9 
附錄 研討會論文 
Appendix 
會議時間 
99年 7月 14
日至 
99年 7月 16
日 
會議地
點 
Bali, Indonesia 
會議名稱 
International Conference on Computer, Electrical, and System Science, 
and Engineering 
發表論文
題目 
IDENTIFYING KEY SUCCESS FACTOR FOR SUPPLY CHAIN 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IN THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY - 
A FOCUS GROUP APPROACH 
11 
 
Fig. 1 Disintegration of the semiconductor industry value chain 
 
Fig. 1 Disintegration of the semiconductor industry value chain 
 
one of the important management approaches 
to creating closer enterprise collaborations 
[3]–[5], many companies continue to invest 
significant resources in developing information 
systems to achieve desirable supply chain 
management. Error-free decisions about 
information technology (IT) investment are 
vital for a firm to adapt to its business 
environment [6]. However, due to the 
complicated nature and large scope of SCM IT 
implementation, few supply chain management 
systems are considered successful [7]. 
Furthermore, according to Gunasekaran and 
Ngai [8], few research publications are directly 
related to the success factors of implementing a 
supply chain management system. 
C. Research Objective and Approach 
Motivated by the need of references 
described in section B, this research proposes a 
hierarchy of key success factors (KSFs) for 
implementing SCM system in the 
semiconductor industry by using a two-step 
approach to construct the hierarchy. The 
literature review of SCM, operation 
management, and information systems and 
management identified the initial KSF 
hierarchy. The second step includes a focus 
group approach to finalize the proposed KSF 
hierarchy by extracting valuable experiences 
from executives and managers who actively 
participated in a project, successfully establish 
a seamless SCM integration between the 
world’s largest semiconductor foundry 
manufacturing company and the world’s largest 
assembly and testing company.  
The proposed hierarchy provides a valuable 
reference for future SCM system 
implementation project managers, ensuring 
consideration of all key success factors to avoid 
failure. This hierarchy may serve as a 
foundation for academic research in fields 
related to SCM system implementation. 
II. THE SUCCESSFUL SCM SYSTEM 
IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT 
A. The Project Introduction  
From 1998 to 2004, Taiwan Semiconductor 
Manufacturing Company (TSMC), the largest 
13 
 
 
 AS: Assembly, FT: Final-Test, ERP: Enterprise Resource Planning, MES: Manufacturing Execution System  
Fig. 2 TSMC/ASE’s key process integration – conceptual overview 
 
Fig. 2 TSMC/ASE’s key process integration – conceptual overview 
 
 
The inception of the TSMC/ASE e-Supply 
Chain project can be dated as early as 1998, a 
truly pioneering initiative ahead of other 
players in the industry. In the early stage of this 
project, between 1998 and 2000, was 
conducted without any international standards 
at the time. Hence the two companies were 
truly in uncharted waters as they discussed 
various aspects of process streamlining, process 
linkage, data exchange protocols, and 
integrated system architecture and 
functionalities.  After numerous mutual visits, 
meetings, e-mail exchanges, and telephone 
communications, eleven e-processes were 
established including yield rates, testing results, 
order and order acknowledgement, 
work-in-process, and shipment of finished 
products in stock; etc. Fig. 2 illustrates the 
identified key processes between these two 
companies. 
E. The Significance of the Project 
While scoping and defining the project 
architecture, these two companies intended not 
only to integrate existing process but also to 
build a “foundation” upon which more process 
integration and data exchange would be 
established both upstream and downstream the 
value chain. This model was eventually 
extended to more than 20 of TSMC customers 
(with TSMC as the interface), and to around 10 
suppliers (with ASE as the interface). 
This pioneering experience was significant in 
that it provided a practical, “down in the 
trenches” experience base with which the two 
companies were able to contribute when 
RosettaNet Semiconductor Manufacturing 
Board (SM Board) was established in 2000. 
Such an experience base proved instrumental in 
defining common e-commerce language and 
15 
available [10]. This research adopts note-based 
analysis. An abridged transcript and a brief 
summary for each focus group discussion are 
prepared for analyzing and identifying the 
commonalities and patterns.  
According to Kreueger [9], the approaches to 
conduct a focus group discussion and analyze 
the results can be very different, depending on 
topics and participants. Experienced 
researchers should be consulted to determine 
the appropriate approaches. 
IV. CONSTRUCTING THE KSF HIERARCHY FOR 
SCM SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION 
A two-step approach was undertaken to 
construct the hierarchy of key success factors 
for implementing supply chain management 
systems. Sections A and B describe these two 
steps. 
A. Step1 – Literature Review to Construct the Initial 
KSF Hierarchy 
A literature review was performed to 
construct the initial KSF hierarchy as the focus 
group discussions foundation. However, 
according to Gunasekaran and Ngai [8], few 
research publications directly relate to the 
success factors of implementing a SCM system. 
To be comprehensive, the literature review 
encompassed the field of supply chain 
management, operation management, and 
information systems and management for 
related SCM KSFs. The following paragraph 
summarizes some of the publications reviewed 
in the current study. 
Fawcett, Magnan and McCarter [13] 
conducted a literature review, cross-functional 
mail survey, and 51 in-depth case analyses of 
supply chain integration and summarized the 
success and hindering factors for supply chain 
management. Gunasekaran and Ngai [8] 
presented four major areas of decision-making 
for build-to-order supply chains; i.e., 
organizational competitiveness, development 
and implementation, operation, and information 
technology. They also sub-classified critical 
factors within these four areas. Another study 
by Gunasekaran and Ngai [14] reviewed and 
classified previous publications regarding 
information technology in supply chain 
management. This study presents a framework 
that identifies the key area of focus in applying 
information technology to supply chain 
management. Liu, Zhang and Hu [15] 
performed a case study of an inter-enterprise 
workflow-supported supply chain system and 
presented the key success factors of supply 
chain management based on experiences and 
lessons learned. Bose, Pal and Ye [16] 
presented a case study of enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) and supply chain management 
integration in China.   
The current study collects forty eight 
previously published key success factors and 
categorizes them into five initial dimensions. 
This initial KSF hierarchy will be used as a 
foundation for focus group discussions in step 
2. 
B. Step2 – Focus Group Discussion 
The current research adopts the focus group 
approach. Based on the initial KSF hierarchy, a 
series of focus group discussion were 
conducted. The purpose of these discussions is 
to finalize the KSF hierarchy for SCM system 
implementation by extracting successful 
experiences from executives and managers who 
actively participated in the SCM 
17 
C. Proposed KSF hierarchy for SCM implementation 
in Semiconductor Industry 
All collected notes are used in the final 
analysis process to identify the commonalities 
and differences. The result of this analysis is a 
KSF hierarchy for SCM system 
implementation in the semiconductor industry, 
shown in Fig. 3. The hierarchy consists of four 
dimensions: strategy, process, organization, and 
technical. Fifteen KSFs divide between these 
four dimensions. The reference numbers 
following the factors denote reference 
literatures in which the factor was originally 
been discussed. The relative importance of the 
dimensions and factors is not represented by 
the number of factors under it, nor by the 
number of reference in which it was discussed. 
The relative importance of these dimensions 
and factors can be analysed in future researches 
with numerical results to provide further 
decision support information to future project 
executives. 
V. CONCLUDING REMARKS AND PROPOSED FUTURE 
While successfully implementing an SCM 
system is often vital for a company [6], the 
success rate for such a high-cost project is low 
[7]. However, few research publications 
directly relate to the success factors of 
implementing a SCM system [8]. The current 
research proposes a KSF hierarchy for 
implementing supply chain management 
system in the semiconductor industry. 
The hierarchy was proposed based on a 
review of SCM related publications and 
especially on the valuable industrial experience 
extracted through focus group discussions from 
executives and managers of a successful SCM 
implementation project. The proposed 
hierarchy provides a valuable reference for 
future project managers of SCM 
implementation projects, ensuring 
consideration of all key success factors to avoid 
failure, which often associates with high costs. 
This hierarchy may serve as a foundation for 
academic research in fields related to SCM 
system implementation. Future research can 
conduct analysis on the relative importance of 
these dimensions and factors with numerical 
results to provide further information to project 
executives for decision-making. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This research is sponsored by the National Science 
Council, Taiwan, Republic of China. Project number 
NSC98-2218-E-027-007. 
REFERENCES 
[1] R. Kalakota, and M. Robinson, e-Business - roadmap for 
success. MA: Longman, 1999, pp. 195–228. 
[2] S. Vickey, R. Calantone, and C. Droge, “Supply chain flexibility: 
an empirical study.” The Journal of Supply Chain Management, 
vol. 35, no. 3, 1999, pp. 16-24. 
[3] A. Gunasekaran, “Agile manufacturing: enablers and an 
implementation framework,” International Journal of Production 
Research, vol. 36, no. 5, 1998, pp. 1223–1247. 
[4] B. Montreuil, J. Frayret, and S. Amours, “A strategic framework 
for networked manufacturing,” Computer in Industry, vol. 42, no. 
2-3, 2000, pp. 299–317. 
TABLE I 
COMPOSITION OF PARTICIPANTS OF GOCUS GROUP 
DISCUSSIONS 
 
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99 年 10 月 10 日 
一、參加會議經過 
The conference was held July 14 to July 16 2010 at Bali, Indonesia. Presenters were from all over the 
world. The presented researches cover a wide range of topics covering, Computer, Electrical, and System 
Science, and Engineering. The current research was arranged to be presented in the first morning overt 
the 3-day conference.   
二、與會心得 
The International Conference on Computer, Electrical, and System Science, and Engineering aims to 
bring together academic scientists, leading engineers, industry researchers and scholar students to 
exchange and share their experiences and research results about all aspects of Computer, Electrical, and 
System Science, and Engineering, and discuss the practical challenges encountered and the solutions 
adopted. 
三、考察參觀活動 
無 
四、建議 
無 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Research publications from the conference and certificate of presentation were brought back. 
計畫編號 NSC 98 － 2218 － E － 027 － 007 
計畫名稱 定義和分析半導體產業之電子化供應鏈系統整合之關鍵成功因素 - 使用模糊層級分析法 
出國人員
姓名 盧大平 
服務機構
及職稱 
台北科技大學 工業工程與管理學系 助
理教授 
會議時間 99年 7月 14日至 99 年 7月 16 日 會議地點 Bali, Indonesia 
會議名稱 International Conference on Computer, Electrical, and System Science, and 
Engineering 
發表論文
題目 
IDENTIFYING KEY SUCCESS FACTOR FOR SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEM IN THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY - A FOCUS GROUP APPROACH 
 3 
 
  
Abstract—Developing a supply chain management (SCM) system is costly, but important. However, because of its complicated nature, not 
many of such projects are considered successful. Few research publications directly relate to key success factors (KSFs) for implementing a SCM 
system. Motivated by the above, this research proposes a hierarchy of KSFs for SCM system implementation in the semiconductor industry by 
using a two-step approach. First, the literature review indicates the initial hierarchy. The second step includes a focus group approach to finalize 
the proposed KSF hierarchy by extracting valuable experiences from executives and managers that actively participated in a project, which 
successfully establish a seamless SCM integration between the world’s largest semiconductor foundry manufacturing company and the world’s 
largest assembly and testing company. Future project executives may refer the resulting KSF hierarchy as a checklist for SCM system 
implementation in semiconductor or related industries. 
 
Keywords—Focus Group, Key Success Factors, Supply Chain Management, Semiconductor Industry. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
A. The Need for Supply Chain Management (SCM) 
In today’s global business arena, competition is marked by volatile demand, decreased customer loyalty, 
shorter product life cycle, and mass product customization. Pushed by the competition, companies need to 
drastically reduce inventory, improve throughput, and still provide on-time delivery. To achieve these goals, 
companies are rethinking their collaboration relationship with their business allies both upstream and 
downstream. Firms have begun to realize that competition is no longer company to company, but supply chain 
                                                 
T.P. Lu is with Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, National Taipei University of Technology, 1, Sec. 3, Chung-Hsiao E. Rd., Taipei, Taiwan, 
R.O.C (corresponding author : 886-2-27712171 ext2341; fax: 886-2-27317168; e-mail: robertlu@ntut.edu.tw).  
B.N. Hwang is with Graduate Institute of Management of Technology, National Chiao Tung University, 1001 University Rd., Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C (e-mail: 
bnhuang.mt96g@g2.nctu.edu.tw). 
T.Z. Liou, and Y.L. Lin are with Graduate Institute of Industrial Engineering and Management, National Taipei University of Technology, 1, Sec. 3, Chung-Hsiao 
E. Rd., Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C (e-mail: t7378070@ntut.edu.tw, t7378030@ntut.edu.tw). 
IDENTIFYING KEY SUCCESS FACTOR 
FOR SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEM IN THE SEMICONDUCTOR 
INDUSTRY - A FOCUS GROUP APPROACH 
T.P. Lu, B.N. Hwang, T.Z. Liou, and Y.L. Lin  
 5 
 
Fig. 1 Disintegration of the semiconductor industry value chain 
II. THE SUCCESSFUL SCM SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT  
A. The Project Introduction 
From 1998 to 2004, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), the largest semiconductor 
foundry and second largest IC manufacturing company in the world and Advanced Semiconductor 
Engineering Inc. (ASE), the world’s largest semiconductor assembly, testing, and packaging service provider, 
jointly completed an e-Supply Chain Management (eSCM) project integrating 11 key business processes 
through the Internet. The result was a seamless interface between TSMC, ASE, and their joint customers. The 
success of this project allowed them to obtain accurate, timely information on their product status and respond 
appropriately when needed. Their pioneering experience has evolved from a two-company project into a 
potent force, upgrading the efficiency of the entire semiconductor industry through process and data 
standardization via RosettaNet.1 
B. The Semiconductor Value Chain 
The continuing trend of the semiconductor value chain disintegration has improved cost efficiency at each 
stage of the value chain as shown in Fig. 1. These companies in the value chain need to closely collaborate 
with their partners both upstream and downstream in order to meet the relentless end consumer demand to 
achieve shorter time-to-market, lower cost, higher responsiveness, and better quality. Therefore, how to 
streamline the business processes between partners, how to share information appropriately, and ultimately, 
how to effectively “re-integrate” the value chain in a virtual manner have become some of the most critical 
issues in the semiconductor industry today.  
C. The Project Background 
To cope with the above issue, TSMC and ASE embarked on a pioneering effort to integrate the key business processes between 
                                                 
1
 RosettaNet, formed in 1998, is a standards development organization, which provides the standardized data infrastructure for integrating business processes for 
collaborative commerce. The data standards now defined are widely adopted by companies to conduct inter-company SCM. The organization has more than 500 
world-leading organizations joining and working to create, implement and promote open e-business standards and services. 
 7 
and integrated system architecture and functionalities.  After numerous mutual visits, meetings, e-mail 
exchanges, and telephone communications, eleven e-processes were established including yield rates, testing 
results, order and order acknowledgement, work-in-process, and shipment of finished products in stock; etc. 
Fig. 2 illustrates the identified key processes between these two companies. 
E. The Significance of the Project 
While scoping and defining the project architecture, these two companies intended not only to integrate 
existing process but also to build a “foundation” upon which more process integration and data exchange 
would be established both upstream and downstream the value chain. This model was eventually extended to 
more than 20 of TSMC customers (with TSMC as the interface), and to around 10 suppliers (with ASE as the 
interface). 
This pioneering experience was significant in that it provided a practical, “down in the trenches” experience 
base with which the two companies were able to contribute when RosettaNet Semiconductor Manufacturing 
Board (SM Board) was established in 2000. Such an experience base proved instrumental in defining common 
e-commerce language and protocols for the semiconductor industry as more players adopted the same 
standards to benefit from the resulting operational efficiency and synergy. 
III. FOCUS GROUP METHODOLOGY 
Focus group is a carefully planned discussion designed to obtain perspectives regarding a specific topic in a 
non-threatening environment. This discussion group should be small and follow a semi-open format led by a 
moderator [9]. During the discussion, participants directly converse with each other, and through this 
interaction they can re-evaluate their own understanding of the specific topic. 
The process of conducting a focus group discussion consists of three phases: planning, conducting, and 
analyzing. Within each of these phases are suggested steps [9]. These three phases are introduced below. 
1. Planning phase: 
First, the purposes and topics of the focus group discussion need to be defined clearly and then an 
appropriate moderator must be appointed. The moderator provides clear explanations of the topics, keeps the 
discussion focused, and ensures that everyone can participate in the discussion and express opinions. The 
moderator encourages participants to feel at ease, stimulate discussions, and promote interactions between 
group members.  The moderator must have a thorough understanding of the topics and purposes of the 
discussion and good communication skills. The moderator facilitates the discussion, but does not lead to avoid 
favouring particular participants or directing discussions a certain way.  
The number of participants in a focus group discussion usually ranges from 4 to 12. While careful selection 
of focus group members is necessary, identifying appropriate participants is not always easy. Member 
selection should follow these three guidelines: homogeneity, heterogeneity, and representative. Morgan [10] 
proposed that participants should possess similar understanding about the topics of the meeting. However, 
members with different positions, backgrounds, experiences, and expertise should be considered to include 
different perspectives. Stewart and Shamdasani [11] suggested that the focus group consist of members that 
are representative of the discussion topics. 
2. Conducting phase: 
 9 
step 2. 
B. Step2 – Focus Group Discussion 
The current research adopts the focus group approach. Based on the initial KSF hierarchy, a series of focus 
group discussion were conducted. The purpose of these discussions is to finalize the KSF hierarchy for SCM 
system implementation by extracting successful experiences from executives and managers who actively 
participated in the SCM implementation project described in section II. While the initial hierarchy from step 1 
was a summary of SCM KSF from a review of literatures that discussed SCM KSF from many different 
perspectives, the resulting KSF hierarchy from step 2 is a comprehensive KSF hierarchy for SCM system 
implementation focusing on the semiconductor manufacturing industry. The following five questions were 
asked in each of the focus group discussion sessions to ensure that expected results are obtained: 
 Which KSFs do you think are appropriate for SCM system implementation in the semiconductor industry? 
 Which dimensions do you think are appropriate for SCM system implementation in the semiconductor 
industry? 
 Which KSFs and which dimensions can be consolidated? 
 Which KSFs should be put under which dimension? 
 Is this KSF hierarchy for SCM system implementation a comprehensive one? 
Five focus group discussions were conducted. All these discussions were held with four to six participants 
from both industry and academia. While the same moderator facilitated each discussion, the participants were 
carefully selected to have different opinions, in compliance with the guidelines of homogeneity and 
heterogeneity. The following table is a summary of the composition of the participants for the five focus group 
discussions (TableI).  
 11 
a high-cost project is low [7]. However, few research publications directly relate to the success factors of 
implementing a SCM system [8]. The current research proposes a KSF hierarchy for implementing supply 
chain management system in the semiconductor industry. 
The hierarchy was proposed based on a review of SCM related publications and especially on the valuable 
industrial experience extracted through focus group discussions from executives and managers of a successful 
SCM implementation project. The proposed hierarchy provides a valuable reference for future project 
managers of SCM implementation projects, ensuring consideration of all key success factors to avoid failure, 
which often associates with high costs. This hierarchy may serve as a foundation for academic research in 
fields related to SCM system implementation. Future research can conduct analysis on the relative importance 
of these dimensions and factors with numerical results to provide further information to project executives for 
decision-making. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This research is sponsored by the National Science Council, Taiwan, Republic of China. Project number 
NSC98-2218-E-027-007. 
REFERENCES   
[1] R. Kalakota, and M. Robinson, e-Business - roadmap for success. MA: Longman, 1999, pp. 195–228. 
[2] S. Vickey, R. Calantone, and C. Droge, “Supply chain flexibility: an empirical study.” The Journal of Supply Chain Management, vol. 35, no. 3, 1999, pp. 
16-24. 
[3] A. Gunasekaran, “Agile manufacturing: enablers and an implementation framework,” International Journal of Production Research, vol. 36, no. 5, 1998, pp. 
1223–1247. 
[4] B. Montreuil, J. Frayret, and S. Amours, “A strategic framework for networked manufacturing,” Computer in Industry, vol. 42, no. 2-3, 2000, pp. 299–317. 
[5] Y. K. Fung, and T. Chen, “A multiagent supply chain planning and coordination architecture,” The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing 
Technology, vol. 25, 2005, pp. 811–819. 
[6] S. H. Kim, D. H. Jang, D. H. Lee, and S. H. “Cho, A methodology of constructing a decision path for IT investment,” The Journal of Strategic Information 
Systems, vol. 9, no. 1, 2000, pp. 17–38. 
[7] S. Li, S. S. Rao, T. S. R. Nathan, and B. R. Nathan, “Development and validation of a measurement instrument for studying supply chain management 
practices,” Journal of Operations Management, vol.23, no. 6, 2005, pp. 618–641. 
[8] A. Gunasekaran, and E. W. T. Ngai, “Build-to-order supply chain management: a literature review and framework for development,” Journal of Operations 
Management, vol. 23, no. 5, 2005, pp. 423–451. 
[9] R. A. Krueger, Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Applied Research, California: Sage publications, 1994. 
[10] D. L. Morgan, Focus groups as qualitative research, London: Sage publications, 1988. 
[11] D. W. Stewart, and P. N. Shamdasani, Focus groups: Theory and practice, Newbury Park: Sage publications, 1990. 
[12] E. F. Fern, Advanced focus group research, Thousand Oaks, California: Sage publications, 2001. 
[13] S. E. Fawcett, G. M. Magnan, and M. W. McCarter, “Benefits, barriers, and bridges to effective supply chain management,” Supply Chain Management: An 
International Journal, vol. 13 no. 1, 2008, pp. 35–48. 
[14] A. Gunasekaran, and E. W. T. Ngai, “Information systems in supply chain integration and management,” European Journal of Operational Research, vol. 159, 
no. 2, 2004, pp. 269–295. 
[15] J. Liu, S. Zhang, and J. Hu, “A case study of an inter-enterprise workflow-supported supply chain management system,” Information & Management, vol. 42, 
no. 3, 2005, pp. 441–454. 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
