2(Anthony, 1991). Therefore, to promote
cooperative culture in a design studio, it is
necessary to understand why students share
knowledge when they are confronted with the
knowledge sharing dilemma.
Our review identified very few articles that
discuss this issue. The purpose of this study is to
provide a starting point for comprehending why
and how cooperation is initiated and sustained
in a design studio. We first introduce the
concept of the learning dilemma in a learning
alliance in the next section. Following that, a
design scope model is developed to interpret the
scenario of synchronous cooperation and
competition in the design studio. Next, a
pedagogical case is examined and followed by a
discussion. The final section consists of
conclusions and suggestions for future research.
2. Cooperation and Competition
in learning alliances
In this age of the knowledge economy,
knowledge is a significant resource of
organizational competitive advantages (Drucker,
1992). To maintain advantages, knowledge
acquisition and creation are core competences of
an organization. As Powell (1998) regards that
the competition among organizations as a
learning race. In order to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of organizational
learning, organizations form strategic alliances,
even with rivals, to exchange and develop new
knowledge (Hamel et al., 1989). In strategic
alliances, allies generally are in a situation in
which two organizations cooperate in some
activities and compete with each other in others
activities simultaneously (Bengtsson and Kock,
2000). Cooperative activity between allies is
knowledge sharing, and competitive behavior is
that an organization attempts to outperform its
partners through utilizing the new knowledge
gained from such an alliance (Khanna et al.,
1998).
Larsson et al. (1998) argue that a learning
alliance is in an inter-organizational learning
dilemma which erodes the foundation of
cooperation. The dilemma derives from
individualistic rationality that makes an
organization pursue maximal private benefits
from the alliance but optimizes the common
profits of the alliance. Because an organization’s
cooperation strategy is the result of the costs and
benefits of that strategy (Loebecke et al., 1999),
Gulati et al. (1994) suggest that an
organization’s cooperative behavior in a
strategic alliance can be analyzed by means of
the concept of payoff structure derived from
Game Theory, which studies the agents’
decision making practice during strategic
interactions (Romp, 1997).
The utility of an organization’s strategy is
affected by other organizations’strategies.
Payoff structure describes such relationships.
Khanna et al. (1998) proposed a payoff
structure–including relative scope, private
benefits, and common benefits (Figure 1)–to
study the dynamics of learning alliances.
Relative scope involves two business
organizations’scopes of market which can be
characterized by a set of products, customers,
regional distribution, etc. When an alliance is
established, relative scope refers to the
intersection of one ally’s scope of market and
that of another. Any member’s total benefits
from the alliance include common and private
benefits. Common benefits are acquired from
cooperative operations in the relative scope of
the alliance, while private benefits are acquired
by utilizing the knowledge which is learned
from the alliance within an unrelated part of a
member’s market scope. The range of relative
scope will shape the proportion of private
benefits and common benefits relative to a
member’s overall benefits. As a result, it will
affect the cooperative behavior of an
organization. If common benefits are greater
than expected, organizations will lean towards
cooperation. Otherwise, organizations will lean
towards to competition, resulting in the collapse
of the alliance eventually.
Figure 1 Payoff structure of Relative Scope Model
(Khanna, Gulati, and Nohria, 1998).
We contend that cooperative learning in the
Relative
Scope
Private
&
Common
Benefits
Cooperative
&
Competitive
Behavior
4is a strategy that adopted by all individuals in a
group and cannot be invaded by a mutant
strategy (Powell, 2003). If individuals with a
mutant strategy can receive greater benefits than
individuals adopting the old strategy, then there
has been a successful invasion by the mutant
strategy; otherwise, no one will adopt the
mutant strategy and the old strategy is an ESS.
Assume there are n students in a design studio.
Each one has the same investment amount I.
Every student’s decision is his allocation of
investment between common interests (CI) and
private interests (PI). Xi represents Student i's
investment on CI and 0 <= Xi <= I, then
Student i's investment on PI is I-Xi. Assume fc(x)
is a function for calculating a student’s payoff
from CI and fp(x) is a function for calculating a
student’s payoff from PI, fc(x) and fp(x) are
increasing functions. Thus, student i's payoff is
given by
IXiIfpXjfcPi
n
j
 

)()(
1
where 

n
j
Xj
1
is the sum of the investment in CI
by all n students. No matter what Xi is, 

n
j
Xj
1
is the same for all students. That is, each student
gains equally from CI.
Student i's strategy is his determination of
Xi’s value. Assume all students, except Student i,
adopt the same strategy X, 0 < X <= I. Student i
adopts a mutant strategy Xi, Xi≠X and 0 < Xi
<= I. Student i's payoff Pi is
IXiIfpXjfcPi
n
j
 

)()(
1
, and the others’payoff P is
IXIfpXjfcP
n
j
 

)()(
1
.
If Xi > X, then (I-Xi) < (I-X); as a result, Pi < P.
Consequently, students with strategy X have no
incentive to change their strategy. In contrast, if
Xi < X, then Pi > P. In this case, students with
strategy X will change their strategy to Xi or Xj
(Xj < Xi) to keep their advantage. The lowering
process of X will continue until X=0. As a result,
no one will invest in CI eventually.
The ESS analysis shows that all students will
become free riders in the end. Nevertheless,
cooperation is not a rare phenomenon in the real
world. In the next section, we will examine a
pedagogical case to find out what actually
happens in an architectural design studio.
4. A case study
The case
The pedagogical case studied here is a senior
design studio at the Department of Architecture,
National Taiwan University of Science and
Technology. The studio included six students,
one instructor, and assistants from graduate
school. The design program was a Hakka culture
center located at Taoyuan County, Taiwan. The
studio was supported by a web forum
(http://140.118.29.4/design2003fall/index.asp)
where students can share their knowledge with
others. The design project lasted for eight weeks.
The instructor introduced the program to the
students in the first week. Discussions on the
forum started in the second week and ended in
the sixth week. In the last two weeks, students
prepared presentations for the design jury. On
the jury day, a simple questionnaire was
employed to survey students’design scopes.
There were 21 design issues posted on the
forum and itemized in the questionnaire.
Students were asked to select issues which
comprised their proposal. If the issues which
were considered by students were not in the
questionnaire, then students were asked to write
them out. All 22 design issues are listed in Table
1 with an extra design issue identified by the
questionnaire. The analytical data include
records from the forum database and
questionnaires.
Design scope analysis
This case study shows that cooperation
among students happened and was sustained
during the design period with no apparent free
rider problem. We defined a free rider as a
student who did not participate in any discussion
threads of a particular design issue but his final
design scope encompassed the issue. Table 1
demonstrates that all students played contributor
and free rider simultaneously. Nevertheless,
most of the students contributed more than
trying to gain without giving. We also observed
that the students’contributions were continuous
6(Figure 4). A student’s payoff is defined by his
design scope. Different natures of design scope
results in different returns. A static design scope
ensures returns from investment and makes free
riders’gains larger than contributors. If
someone invests in common interests, then
everyone can benefit from that investment. In
contrast, dynamic design scope causes risk to
investment and creates a situation in which free
riders may not gain more than contributors.
Someone’s investment on common interests can
not benefit everyone unless the shared
knowledge relates to someone’s design scope.
Common
Interests
Private
Interests A PI B
PI CPI D
Figure 5 Static design scope in the analysis with ESS
The ESS analysis assumes three kinds of
information are transparent. They are the
students’design scopes, strategies, and returns.
Based on the information available, students can
compare outcomes between various strategies,
and then they can modify or maintain their
strategy. Information transparency in this case
was similar to the assumptions of the ESS
analysis through the support of a web forum
wherein students could observe others’interests
and strategies. Outcomes of investments could
be learned through the instructor’s review of the
students’work every week. If a student’s
proposal was appreciated by the instructor then
he gained from his strategy. Note that the
instructor asked for students to present their
work to all when their work was reviewed.
Being a free rider is a better strategy,
according to the ESS analysis, when design
scope is static. In contrast, contributors are more
successful in the case where design scope is
dynamic. Both the analysis and the case exhibit
good information transparency, which assists
participants in adopting a strategy. Through
design scope analysis and comparison, we
conclude that cooperation is a better strategy
when design scope is dynamic, and that
excellent information transparency can make
dissemination of successful strategies easier.
5. Discussions
Knowledge sharing as the provision of
public goods
Cabrera and Cabrera (2002) suggest that the
knowledge sharing dilemma is similar to public
good dilemmas. Public goods have two
characteristics–non-rival consumption and
non-exclusion (Leuthold, 1987). If a good is
consumed by one person and it can be used by
other consumers, then the good is non-rival.
Non-exclusion means that a good’s provider is
unable, or difficult, to select his consumers.
Examples of public goods are public defense,
lighthouses, highways, broadcasts, and
knowledge (Adler, 1989). If knowledge has
been published in a book, then the book can be
read by many different people even after one
person has read it. If the book is available in a
public library, it is almost impossible to exclude
the specific readers. Non-exclusiveness is even
more apparent when the knowledge is published
on the Internet. Our case supported with a web
forum exhibits the same circumstances.
Public goods dilemmas have two properties
(Dawes, 1980). The first is that a defector (free
rider) gains greater payoff than a cooperator
(contributor). The second is that the payoff of all
individuals’cooperation is better than the payoff
of all individuals’defection. In our case study,
the second property is predominant than the first.
We will discuss the implications in the next
subsections.
Cooperation as a hedge strategy
The risk of design development is derived
from the open-ended character of design
problems that makes design a trial-and-error
process. Therefore, the result of a design is
difficult to predict, especially for novices with
limited expertise and experience. Given this
uncertainty, a fertile common design scope can
reduce risk. A student might not benefit from
his own efforts. Nevertheless, his efforts could
be accumulated through the support of
information technology, and then help other
students. In the same way, he can gain from
8important information that affects others’
cooperative strategies. A student can publish his
interests on the forum, thereby inviting someone
else to form a learning alliance. When a student
participates in a discussion thread, he also sends
a signal of cooperation to others. Consequently,
other students can choose partners and strategic
moves.
In our observation, improvement in
information transparency did not appear to
promote free riders. In contrast, this
improvement might provide greater potential for
design development. Students had more
alternatives for synthesizing their unique
solutions. The improvement of information
transparency seems to have positive effects on
initiating and sustaining cooperation in the
design studio.
6. Conclusions
This study offers two contributions to
understanding why and how cooperation is
initiated and sustained in the design studio. First,
we developed a design scope model which
synthesizes the features of learning alliance and
Game Theory upon the foundation of design
problem solving. The model depicts that
students face the dilemma between sharing and
hoarding knowledge. Game Theoretical
approach is utilized to predict how students will
act when confronted with such a dilemma. The
concept of design scope is employed to interpret
field data and analyze cooperative relationships
between students.
Second, this study provides initial
explanations regarding how cooperation is
initiated and sustained in a design studio.
Cooperation may be a beneficial strategy for
improving individual performance when the
design scope is dynamic. Students’benefits
come from taking on together the risk of
open-ended problem solving. To sustain the
benefits, sharing knowledge voluntarily and
responding to others contributions continuously
are necessary strategic moves for inviting
contributors. Information technology may play
an influential role in enhancing cooperation. IT
extendsparticipants’communication channels
and makes information more transparent. These
improvements can increase the efficiency of
knowledge sharing; therefore, a culture of
cooperation may be promoted.
This research is a first step towards
understanding cooperation in the design studio.
Several future research directions are suggested.
First of all, the culture of cooperation or
evolutionary stable strategies may be the result
of long-term development. We cannot infer the
long-term tendencies from a short-term case.
Thus, long-term and more large-scale studies
across numerous design studios studies should
be conducted. Second, the primary data
analyzed in this research comes from the
forum’s database. The data are just a segment of
the record of interactions among students in the
design studio. It is impossible that cooperation
only happened on the Internet. Data from other
sources and collection techniques should be
explored in the future. Finally, modifications of
the learning circumstances of the design studio–
such as the introduction of IT–may lead to
dramatic shifts in cooperative culture. The
modifications and theirs influences should be
studied thoroughly in future work.
References
[1] Adler, P.S. (1989). When knowledge is the critical
resource, knowledge management is the critical
task. IEEE Transactions on Engineering
Management, 36(2), 87-94
[2] Anthony, K.H. (1991). Design Juries on Trial: The
Renaissance of the design studio. New York: Van
Nostrand Reinhold.
[3] Axelrod, R.M. (1984). The Evolution of
Cooperation. New York: Basic Books.
[4] Bengtsson, M. & Kock, S. (2000 ). "Coopetition"
in Business Networks--to Cooperate and Compete
Simultaneously. Industrial Marketing
Management , 29(5), 411-426
[5] Brusasco, P.L., Caneparo, L., Carrara, G.,
Fioravanti, A., Novembri, G., & Zorgno, A.M.
(2000). Computer supported design studio.
Automation in Construction, 9(4), 393-408
[6] Cabrera, A. & Cabrera, E.E. (2002).
Knowledge-sharing Dilemmas. Organization
Studies, 23(5), 687-710
[7] Craig, D.L. & Zimring, C. (2000). Supporting
collaborative design groups as design communities.
Design Studies, 21(2), 187-204
[8] Dawes, R.M. (1980). Social dilemmas. Annual
Review of Psychology, 31, 169-193
