  
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
█成果報告   
□期中進度報告 
 
延遲容忍網路技術與應用開發 
 
 
計畫類別：█個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC100-2221-E-259-020 
執行期間： 100 年 8 月 1 日至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立東華大學資訊工程學系暨研究所 
 
計畫主持人：羅壽之 教授 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：羅乃文、陳子樺、羅育軒、張育碩、俞帝馨、高志孝 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國    年    月    日 
II 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Delay Tolerant Networks (DTNs) have attracted considerable attention in recent years. 
This kind of network works with in communication environments subject to delays 
and disruptions. Traditional end-to-end routing fails in DTN due to intermittent 
connections. How to design an efficient routing protocol in DTN becomes a popular 
issue. Data replication is usually applied in routing to handle intermittent connections; 
however, this causes a lot of data stored in buffers. Due to limited buffer space, buffer 
management becomes important. Furthermore, serious network congestions would 
occur so as to reduce the data delivery rate. In this project, we design a new routing 
protocol in DTN which needs not the support of a centralized location server as 
compared with traditional location-based routing protocols. Moreover, we study 
efficient ways to handle buffer and congestion control. 
 
Keywords: DTN, Routing Protocol, Buffer Management, Congestion Control
2 
 
3 文獻探討 
3.1. DTN路由協定 
路由決策是決定如何複製及傳送訊息副本給合適的節點。合適節點的挑選則是透過特定的參數，
如碰面頻率及碰面等待時間等。根據訊息副本個數進行分類，DTN 路由協定大致上可以分成三類： 
 單一副本(Single-copy)方法：單一訊息副本透過連續的中繼節點轉送至目的節點。 
 配額複製(Quota-replication)方法：透過 Quota 限制訊息副本的產生數目。 
 洪水(Flooding)方法：在整個網路中建立數量龐大的訊息副本。 
雖然單一副本方法[3][4][5][6]能夠為網路中每一個節點減少緩衝區使用率，但是在節點碰面頻率
較低的網路中，這個方法所能達到的訊息抵達率是最低的。Epidemic[7]及 MaxProp[8]等洪水方法，
採用盡可能建立訊息副本來提高訊息抵達目的節點的機率。但是大量的訊息副本可能耗盡節點的緩衝
區空間，進而導致部份訊息副本被丟棄。Spray&Wait[9]及 EBR[10]等配額複製方法，透過設定配額初
始值限制同一訊息的最大訊息副本個數。這個配額設定的目的是希望在資源消耗及訊息抵達率之間取
得一個平均。 
在基於車輛網路下的 DTN，任何兩車輛之間的經常性碰面行為並不常見。因此，依據碰面歷史
資訊的路由協定在這種環境下無法有效的運作。不過一些有用的資訊，例如節點的位置及移動向量可
以從節點上的全球定位系統(Global Positioning System, GPS)裝備獲得。GPSR[11]這類典型的車載網路
路由方法，已經證明了如果總是透過靠近目的節點的節點，進行訊息的轉送可以顯著的降低終端至終
端(End-to-End)的延遲。然而這類轉送(forwarding)方法在訊息抵達率上，從我們先前的研究[12]中可以
得知有著較差的效率。 
某些同時考慮位置資訊及訊息複製的路由協定[13][14][15][16]已經被提出。在 DAER[13]中，攜
帶訊息的節點正往訊息目的節點方向移動時，它將會複製訊息副本給碰面節點，只要這些節點比自己
更靠近訊息目的節點。反之，攜帶訊息的節點將會把訊息傳送給碰面節點，然後將訊息從自己的緩衝
區中移除。從概念上來看，DEAR 採用結合單一副本及配額複製的作法。在 VR[14]中，水平道路上
移動的節點將有著較高的機率，複製並傳送訊息副本給行駛在垂直道路上的相遇節點。不過，VR 在
抵達率上的表現比DAER來得更差。POR[15]進行路由決策時，考慮節點通訊半徑中的鄰居節點資訊。
在POR中，節點將複製一個訊息副本給通訊半徑中的鄰居節點之一，而非全部的鄰居節點。ORWAR[16]
的行為與Spray&Wait相似，但是額外預測兩個碰面節點之間可以維持通訊的碰面時間(Contact Time)，
避免任何無法完成的訊息傳輸。 
以上這些基於位置資訊的路由方法，要求在兩個碰面節點之間交換節點移動相關的資訊。此外，
在 GPSR、DAER 及 POR 方法中，全部訊息的目的節點位置必須是已知，這使得這些方法不切實際。 
3.2. DTN壅塞控制 
在 DTN相關研究中，有兩個主要的研究[17][18]專注在壅塞控制。Storage routing(SR)[17]使用訊
息移動或推送技術從一個沒有剩餘足夠緩衝空間的節點，移動訊息至另外一個有著充足緩衝空間的節
點。在 Storage routing 方法[17]中，移動訊息的順序會依照訊息進入緩衝區的順序，從緩衝區的最前
端(PushTail)或最後端(PushHead)開始移動，又或著依照訊息產生的時間，優先移動產生最久的訊息
(PushOldest)。在相關的模擬研究中發現，採用 PushOldest 有著較佳的效能表現。如果通訊半徑中有
數個鄰居節點有著充足的緩衝空間，那麼擁有最低訊息移動成本及最大可用緩充區空間的鄰居節點，
4 
 
當一個節點打算複製訊息副本給另外一個節點時，DARCC 使用鄰居概念去選擇一定數量的鄰居
節點做為中繼節點。在 DARCC 中，有著不同的中繼節點個數挑選限制。這個限制取決於節點是否得
知訊息目的節點的位置，以及節點是否靠近路口。 
如果已經獲得訊息目的節點位置，我們將選擇位於直接前往目的節點路徑上的節點做為中繼節點。
在這種環境下，節點將選擇一個比自己更靠近目的節點的鄰居節點作為中繼節點，並複製一個訊息副
本給它。否則，我們採用散佈訊息到不同的方向達到路由的多樣性。節點將挑選一個與自己移動方向
差異最大的鄰居節點作為中繼節點，並複製一個訊息副本給它。除此之外，當節點位於路口區域時，
節點將額外多挑選一個鄰居節點作為中繼節點。 
在路口區域判斷上，我們使用一個簡單的路口偵測演算法。我們假定距離節點 50 公尺內，存在
任意節點的移動方向與本身移動方向差異角度大於 45 度，表示節點正處於路口區域。 
在 DARCC 中，我們設計了一個分散式位置探知方法。在這個方法中，節點必須維護一個目的節
點位置資訊的表格，用以存放已知的目的節點位置。在初始時，這個表格沒有記錄任何移動節點的位
置。當節點接收到一個目的節點為自己的訊息時，該節點將會在表格中加入它當下的位置相關資訊，
並告知週遭的鄰居節點，並週期性更新表格內的記錄。任意兩節點碰面時，將會交換彼此這個位置資
訊表格內的資料。透過這種方式，將目的節點的位置資訊散佈至整個網路之中。 
最後，在 DARCC 中存在一個訊息副本複製額度 k，用來限制節點最多只能複製特定訊息的副本
給 k個中繼節點。如果這些中繼節點都處在節點的通訊半徑中時，節點將不能繼續複製該特定訊息給
其他節點，直到這些中繼節點中的任意節點離開節點的通訊半徑。這是為了避免在持有訊息的節點週
邊複製多餘的訊息副本。 
4.2. 壅塞控制 
由於 DTN 路由方法的特性，容易因為訊息副本複製數過多，導致網路產生壅塞。我們提出基於
動態壅塞控制路由(Dynamic Congestion Control based Routing, DCCR)演算法，不需要更改原始路由方
法分配副本複製額度的機制。在額度分配前執行額度調整，並根據演算法的評估動態執行不同的路由
策略，降低壅塞發生的機率，並改良原本路由方法只能適應特定與單一網路環境的情況。在 DCCR
中，每一個節點會維護並交換緩衝區的使用率。透過交換緩衝區使用率(Buffer Occupancy, BO)資訊，
節點可以計算週遭平均緩衝區佔用率(Average Buffer Occupancy, ABO)，並將此值視為壅塞風險值。最
後，DCCR 根據不同的平均緩衝區佔用率動態調整路由傳送策略。 
在 DCCR 中，每一個節點都會維護傳輸範圍內所有鄰居節點的暫存區佔用率以及與其他節點的
碰面發生頻繁程度(Contact Frequency, CF)。當節點與其他節點碰面時都會更新表格裡每筆記錄，節點
只會記錄目前鄰居節點的暫存區佔用率。當某一鄰居節點離開通訊半徑後，節點將刪除該鄰居節點的
記錄。DCCR 使用 High Threshold(HT)、Moderate Threshold(MT)與 Light Threshold(LT)等三個臨界值
(threshold)界定壅塞風險的程度。HT表示高度壅塞風險，MT表示中度壅塞風險，LT表示輕度壅塞風
險。節點計算出壅塞風險後，將依照壅塞風險階段執行不同的壅塞管理策略。以下使用臨界值進行三
個階段的壅塞控制： 
 平均緩衝區佔用率超過輕度壅塞風險：在此階段，如果攜帶訊息節點所挑選的中繼節點，曾
經與訊息目的節點碰面，攜帶訊息節點將預先減少本身的副本複製額度。這是因為當中繼節
點曾經與目的節點接觸，代表訊息已經靠近目的節點。此時減少訊息副本產生數量，依然有
很高的機率能將訊息傳送至目的節點。 
6 
 
表 1、Vehicle-Based DTN 實驗參數設定 
Parameter Value 
Simulation time 3600 s 
Number of nodes 100 
Buffer size 3 MB 
Transmission rate 250 kBps 
Communication range 200 m 
Message size 200 kB 
Message interval 25 s, 20 s, 15 s, 10 s, 5 s 
Message generation period 600 s to 3000 s 
 
 
圖 1、路由協定效能表現：抵達率(Delivery Ratio) 
 
 
圖 2、路由協定效能表現：有效延遲(Effective Latency) 
8 
 
 
圖 4、壅塞控制效能表現：有效延遲(Effective Latency) 
5.3. 緩衝區管理效能比較 
由於受限於篇幅限制，在此我們僅針對 Social-Based DTN的實驗結果進行說明。在此組實驗中，
我們針對本計畫提出的 UtilitBased 方法，與 MaxProp、FIFO_DropTail 及 Random_DropFront 等四個
方法進行效能比較。這四個方法全部採用 Epidemic路由策略。本計畫提出的 UtilitBased 方法。
FIFO_DropTail 依據訊息接收時間進行排序，傳送時優先傳送較早接收的訊息，丟棄時則優先丟棄較
晚接收的訊息。Random_DropFront 任何排序訊息，傳送訊息時優先傳送排序在前的訊息，丟棄時則
優先丟棄排序在後的訊息。 
 
圖 5、緩衝區管理效能表現：抵達率(Delivery Ratio) 
經驗完整的實驗結果我們得知，在針對不同的效能標準優化的前提下，所採取的排序索引也不盡
相同。不過由於篇幅限制，我們在此僅列出從實驗中得知，分別對抵達率與端至端平均延遲有著最最
明顯影響的排序索引組合之實驗數據。在考慮資料送達率為效能標準時，本計劃提出的 UtilityBased
方法同時參考訊息大小與副本個數做為作為排序索引。選擇使用訊息大小排除索引，與最短工作優先
10 
 
2005. 
[10] S. C. Nelson, M. Bakht, and R. Kravets, “Encounter-Based Routing in DTNs,” in Proc. IEEE 
INFOCOM Conf., pp. 846-854, Apr. 2009. 
[11] B. Karp and H. T. Kung, “GPSR: greedy perimeter stateless routing for wireless networks,” in Proc. 
MobiCom, pp. 243–254, 2000. 
[12] S. C. Lo, M. H. Chiang, J. H. Liou, and J. S. Gao, “Routing and Buffering Strategies in Delay-Tolerant 
Networks: Survey and Evaluation,” in Proc. IEEE ICPP Workshop, Sept. 2011. 
[13] H. Y. Huang, P. E. Luo, M. Li, D. Li, X. Li, W. Shu, and M. Y. Wu, “Performance Evaluation of 
SUVnet with Real-Time Traffic Data,” IEEE Trans. Vehicular Technology, vol. 56, no. 6, pp. 
3381-3396, Nov. 2007. 
[14] H. Kang and D. Kim, “Vector Routing for Delay Tolerant Networks,” in Proc. IEEE VTC Conf., pp. 
1-5, Sept. 2008. 
[15] X. Li; W. Shu, M. Li, H. Y. Huang, and M. Y. Wu, “DTN Routing in Vehicular Sensor Networks,” in 
Proc. IEEE Global Telecommunications Conf., pp.1-5, Nov. 2008. 
[16] G. Sandulescu and S. Nadjm-Tehrani, “Adding Redundancy to Replication in Window-Aware 
Delay-Tolerant Routing,” Journal of Communications, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 117-129, Feb. 2010. 
[17] M. Seligman, et al, “Storage routing for DTN congestion control,” Wireless Communications and 
Mobile Computing, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 1183-1196, 2007. 
[18] N. Thompson, S. C. Nelson, M. Bakht, T. Abdelzaher, and R. Kravets, “Retiring Replicants: Congestion 
Control for Intermittently-Connected Networks,” In Proc. IEEE infocom, pp. 1-9, 2010. 
[19] A. Lindgren and K. S. Phanse, "Evaluation of Queueing Policies and Forwarding Strategies for Routing 
in Intermittently Connected Networks," in Proc. Intl. Conf. Communication System Software and 
Middleware, pp. 1-10, 2006. 
[20] A. Krifa, C. Baraka, and T. Spyropoulos, "Optimal Buffer Management Policies for Delay Tolerant 
Networks," in Proc. IEEE SECON Conf., pp. 260-268, Jun. 2008. 
[21] A. Balasubramanian, B. N. Levine, and A. Venkataramani, "Replication Routing in DTNs: A Resource 
Allocation Approach," IEEE/ACM Trans. Networking, vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 596-609, Apr. 2010. 
[22] A. Keränen, J. Ott, and T. Kärkkäinen, "The ONE Simulator for DTN Protocol Evaluation," in Proc. 
Intl. Conf. Simulation Tools and Techniques, Mar. 2009. 
[23] Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing system, 
http://www.census.gov/geo/www/tiger/ 
[24] J. Härri, M. Fiore, F. Fethi and C. Bonnet, “VanetMobiSim: generating realistic mobility patterns for 
VANETs,” in Proc. ACM Intl. Workshop on Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks, Sep. 2006. 
[25] The Community Resource for Archiving Wireless Data At Dartmouth (CRAWDAD), 
http://uk.crawdad.org/index.php 
表 Y04 
東華大學專任教師出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           101  年  6  月 6 日 
報告人姓名  
羅壽之 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
資訊工程系 
副教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
101年 5月 29日至 101年 5月 31日 
大陸 重慶 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)  
 (英文) 9th International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge 
Discovery (FSKD 2012) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)  
(英文) A Dynamic Congestion Control Based Routing for Delay-Tolerant 
Networks 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
本人於 5/27先前往桃園機場附近住宿一晚，隔天 5/28一早搭乘長榮航空班機由桃園
直接飛往大陸重慶，隔日 5/29於會場萬有康年酒店報名註冊，並聆聽 keynote speech。
5/30發表論文，並與會場人士交流。5/31聆聽幾場論文報告。6/1搭乘中國國際航空班
機由重慶返回桃園。6/2日早上返回花蓮。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
  FSKD會議今年由重慶郵電大學舉辦，並與 ICNC同時舉辦。由於收稿領域眾多，與會
學者來自不同國家與不同研究領域。論文報告部分大會安排兩種形式：口頭與張貼報
告，這次我們採用張貼的方式，反而有更多的時間可以進行深入的討論。本次會議邀請
的 keynote speaker有台灣的 Pau-Choo Chung，中國的 Fei-Yue Wang，波蘭的 Leszek 
Rutkowski 以及香港的 Jun Wang等知名學者，內容相當精彩，令人印象深刻。 
 
 
表 Y04 
 
Forwarding protocols such as MEED [11] and SimBet [12] 
can save buffer space in each node, but they have a low 
delivery rate. Flooding protocols such as Epidemic [13] and 
MaxProp [14] create as many copies as possible, to increase the 
probability of a message reaching its destination.  However, 
such a large volume of copies exhausts the buffer space of each 
node. Quota-replication protocols such as Spray&Wait [15] 
and EBR [16] can limit the maximum number of copies of the 
same message by setting an initial quota. 
In a quota-replication scheme, each message generated 
from a source is associated with an initial quota. A node can 
conditionally duplicate a message in the buffer, and forward the 
duplicated message to another encountered node. Moreover, 
the duplicated message is allocated part of the quota from the 
original message based on a quota allocation function. Any 
message whose quota has been reached, and cannot be 
allocated any more, is therefore transmitted to the destination 
by direct contact. 
Spray&Wait uses a binary quota allocation function such 
that a duplicated message gets a half of the quota from the 
original message. EBR maintains an encounter value for each 
node, which is representative of the average number of 
encounters with other nodes during an observation period. The 
quota allocation function is based on the ratio of the encounter 
values of two contact nodes.  
There are two main studies [17][18] that examine the issue 
of congestion in a DTN. Storage routing [17] uses message 
moving or pushing techniques to move messages from a node 
without free buffer space to another node with free buffer space. 
The messages that are to be moved can be selected based on 
the order that the message entered into the buffer (PushTail or 
PushHead policies) or the time the message was generated into 
the network (PushOldest policy). The PushOldest policy 
presented good performance after some simulation studies. If 
there are several neighboring nodes with free buffer space, the 
node with the lowest message moving cost and the largest 
available buffer space is selected. 
 The study [18] uses a local measurement to estimate the 
global congestion level. Local measurement is based on a ratio 
of the number of dropped messages to the number of message 
replications observed and accumulated by a node. If quota-
replication routing is involved, then the message quota is 
decreased when the congestion level is growing and is 
increased otherwise. 
Our proposed congestion control somewhat combines the 
techniques introduced in the above studied. However, we use 
an easier and more realistic method to estimate congestion 
level. We not only change the message quota accordingly but 
also change quota-replication routing to forwarding routing if 
the network is seriously congested.  
III. CONGESTION CONTROL-BASED ROUTING 
 Here we introduce our proposed routing protocol named 
DCCR (Dynamic Congestion Control based Routing). In 
DCCR, some meta-data about buffer occupancy and contact 
probability need to be maintained or exchanged among all 
nodes. Then, a series of strategies are performed to deal with 
various congestion conditions. 
A. Meta-data Maintenance 
Each node should maintain two tables: NBOT (Neighbor 
Buffer Occupancy Table) and CPT (Contact Probability Table). 
NBOT records the current buffer occupancy of each 
neighboring node in the communication range. The buffer 
occupancy of a node indicates how much of the buffer has been 
occupied, and is the ratio of the size of buffer space in use to 
the total size of buffer space. When a node encounters another 
node, they exchange their current buffer occupancy values. 
Also, when the encountered node leaves and is out of 
communication range, the corresponding entry in the NBOT is 
deleted. 
The CPT records the contact probability of each node that 
has been encountered before and is updated each time any 
nodes are encountered. Suppose that a node records a contact 
probability value with node V and we denote this probability 
value as CPV. When this node encounters another node, CPV is 
updated from an old value (CPV,old) to a new one (CPV,new) as in 
(1): 
,
,
,
(1 ) ,  If node  is the current encounter node
(1 ),Otherwise.
V old
V new
V old
CP V
CP
CP
α α
α
× − +⎧
= ⎨
× −⎩
   (1) 
That is, we increase the contact probability of the current 
encounter node and decrease the contact probability of each 
other non-encounter node (aging effect). We use a scenario 
example as shown in Figure 1 to show how to maintain the 
CPT. Suppose that we set α = 0.6.  At the beginning, node D 
contacts nodes A and B which have never been seen before. 
Each node (i.e., nodes A, B, and D) adds a new entry with an 
initial value 0.6 for each newly contacted neighbor in its CPT. 
Next, nodes C and D encounter each other, and a new entry 
with an initial value 0.6 is added correspondingly. Moreover, 
node D updates the two old entries (CPA and CPB) with a new 
value = 0.6×0.4. Then, nodes A and B encounter each other, 
and they follow a similar action with node D, as described 
above, to add one new entry and update one old entry in their 
CPTs. 
D
A
C
B
CFT (D)
CPA 0.6
CPB 0.6
CFT (A)
CPD 0.6
CFT (B)
CPD 0.6
D
A
C
B
CFT (D)
CPA 0.24
CPB 0.24
CPC 0.6
CFT (A)
CPD 0.24
CPB 0.6
CFT (B)
CPD 0.24
CPA 0.6
CFT (C)
CPD 0.6  
Figure 1.  Computing contact probability. 
B. Condition-based Congestion Control 
DCCR adds some congestion controls into quota-
replication routing. Each node would compute the average  
0.84
0.86
0.88
0.9
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
10 15 20 25
De
liv
er
y 
Ra
tio
Buffer Capacity (MB)
DCCR_SnW_Plus0.1
DCCR_SnW_Plus0.5
DCCR_SnW_Plus1.0
 
Figure 3.  Optimal setting of Δ. 
0.86
0.87
0.88
0.89
0.9
0.91
0.92
0.93
0.94
0.95
0.96
10 15 20 25
De
liv
er
y 
Ra
tio
Buffer Capacity (MB)
DCCR_SnW_w2
DCCR_SnW_w3
DCCR_SnW_w4
 
Figure 4.  Optimal setting of ω. 
0.84
0.86
0.88
0.9
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
10 15 20 25
De
liv
er
y 
Ra
tio
Buffer Capacity (MB)
DCCR_SnW_Q12
DCCR_SnW_Q18
DCCR_SnW_Q6
 
Figure 5.  Effect of initial message quota. 
0.82
0.84
0.86
0.88
0.9
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
10 15 20 25
D
el
iv
er
y 
Ra
ti
o
Buffer Capacity (MB)
DCCR_SnW_137
DCCR_SnW_248
DCCR_SnW_369
 
Figure 6.  Threshold setting. 
Delivery ratio: ratio of the total number of messages received 
at destinations to the total number of messages sent from 
sources. 
Average relay cost: ratio of the total message relay count to the 
total number of messages received at destinations. The relay 
count is increased by one as any message is forwarded or 
copied from one node to another node in the network.  
Effective latency: ratio of the average end-to-end delay for a 
message from the source to the destination to the delivery ratio. 
The effective latency above is different from the 
conventional end-to-end delay, and can clearly justify a 
protocol with short end-to-end-delay but with low delivery 
ratio. 
At first, we observe how to adjust message quota by setting 
different values for Δ and ω. As can be seen in Figures 3 and 4, 
when the increased factor Δ=0.1 and the decreased factor ω=2 
are set, we get the highest delivery ratio.  The determination of 
initial message quota values is a tradeoff between resource 
consumption and message deliverability, and is a challenging 
problem in any quota-replication routing. Since we 
dynamically change the message quota, the initial setting 
becomes less sensitive to performance as shown in Figure 5. 
Next, we observe the setting of the threshold values LT, MT, 
and HT by using different combinations. We found (see Figure 
6) that the settings of LT=0.3, MT=0.6, and HT=0.9 had the 
best performance. 
We then started comparing DCCR with two other 
congestion controls.  In Figure 7, DCCR largely improves 
delivery ratio in comparison to other methods, particularly 
when buffer size is very small. Although SR and RR can 
improve delivery ratio, it was found that they perform worse 
than DCCR. In Figures 8 and 9, we can see that RR has the 
lowest relay cost but has the highest latency. The decreased 
factor of RR is larger than that of DCCR, so fewer message 
copies are created but the overall delivery ratio is sacrificed as 
a result. 
We performed the same comparison but changed the 
message generating intervals. When the message generation 
interval is small, the network becomes heavily loaded. DCCR 
presents excellent congestion control and achieves a high 
delivery ratio as shown in Figure 10. When the message 
generation interval is large, the network is lightly loaded, and 
DCCR generates many copies of messages, so the relay cost 
remains high but latency stays low as shown in Figures 11 and 
12.  
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
10 15 20 25
De
liv
er
y 
Ra
tio
Buffer Capacity (MB)
RR_SnW
DCCR_SnW
SnW
SR_SnW
 
Figure 7.  Delivery ratio vs. Buffer size. 
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
10 15 20 25
Av
er
ag
e 
Re
la
y 
Co
st
Buffer Capacity (MB) 
RR_SnW
DCCR_SnW
SnW
SR_SnW
 
Figure 8.  Relay cost vs. Buffer size. 
東華大學博士生出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                        101  年  5  月 14 日 
報告人姓名 高志孝 服務機構 及職稱 
資訊工程系 
博士生 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
101 年 5 月 6 日至 101 年 5 月 9 日 
日本 橫濱 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)  
 (英文) 2012 IEEE 75th Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC 2012 Spring) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)  
(英文) Distance-Aware Routing with Copy Control in Vehicle-Based DTNs 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
  本次出國的主要目的，為參加由 Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers之Vehicular Technology Society所舉辦的2012 IEEE 75th Vehicular 
Technology Conference(VTC 2012 Spring)，並且於該會議中發表論文。在發表論
文之餘，也利用此次機會接觸各國學者於車載無線通訊領域上的研究。VTC 2012 
Spring 在 6-9 May，於日本橫濱的國際會議中心舉辦，主要議題為車間無線通訊相關
領域，排除 Workshop Papers 及 Poster Papers 後，VTC 2012 Spring 共有 60 個
場次、約 300 篇左右的 Full Papers 的報告，以及數場的 Technical Session。VTC 
2012 Spring 會期共計四天，第一天(6 May)為 Register 及 Technical Session，後
三天(7 May ~ 9 May)則為 Presentation Session。為了避免水土不服影響報告，提
前於 4 May 搭機至日本，並於會議結束後隔天(10 May)自日本搭機返國。 
 
二、與會心得 
  這是本人第一次赴國外參加國際研討會，此次的參與讓我瞭解國際性研討會的規模
以及學術交流的價值。此次參與除了增加論文發表經驗外，還提供接觸國外學者研究領
域的機會。在會議中，我發現在學者們針對彼此不同的概念、想法進行討論與分享。不
過藉於與義大利、加拿大、泰國與其他國家的學者交流中，可以得知國外的學者除了重
視論文所提出的方法之外，對於問題定義、實驗結果及同性質比較等項目也是極為重視。 
  在會議舉辦方面，由於此次參與人數遠超過我在國內所參加過的會議。在會議的第
一天遭遇因人數過多，導致動線無法順利舒解壅塞情況。但是會議主辦單位於隔天會議
開始前就完成動線的調整並貼出公告，也藉由工作人員告知與會學者，有效的降低壅塞
情況所帶來的不便。會場提供許多且詳細的橫濱導覽資訊，裡面除了提供當地的旅遊資
訊外，還提供當地的傳統技藝的介紹及體驗活動。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
 
Title: Distance-Aware Routing with Copy Control in Vehicle-Based DTNs 
Paper: http://vtc2012spring.trackchair.com/paper/77711 
 
Dear Colleague, 
 
On behalf of the Technical Program Committee, I am pleased to inform you that the above paper 
has been conditionally accepted for oral presentation at VTC2012-Spring in Yokohama, Japan. 
 
All submitted papers have been thoroughly independently reviewed. 
 
This paper is accepted contingent upon:  
1) your completion and submission of the camera-ready final version of the technical manuscript 
for the paper, 
2) receipt of the signed copyright form, and 
3) your pre-registration for the conference.  
 
All of these items must be done by 6 February 2012 carefully following the instructions that will be 
published online. The registration procedure will be published by 10 of January (we will notify you 
by email when the registration process opens). 
 
Additionally, the IEEE Vehicular Technology Society requires that each accepted paper be presented 
in-person at the conference site according to the schedule published. It reserves the right to 
exclude from distribution on IEEE Xplore any paper not presented on-site. If none of the authors 
are able to attend, by a qualified surrogate may present the paper, and registrations may be 
transferred free of charge. 
 
Camera ready copy must be submitted to the IEEE Conference eXpress Publishing system, as they 
will be producing the final proceedings. 
 
**** do NOT upload final manuscripts to TrackChair **** 
 
Full details can be found on the conference web site at 
http://www.vtc2012spring/final-submission.php 
 
Reviews of your paper can be found on the TrackChair site at the URL at the top of this email, in 
the "Actions" sidebar, under "Reviews". Please take the reviewers comments into account where 
appropriate in preparing your final manuscript. 
 
Note that it is the VT Society policy that each paper must have either a full IEEE member or 
non-member registration (not a student registration). Authors submitting more than one paper 
must pay a full registration for the first paper, plus an extra paper charge for each additional paper. 
If you only have a paper in a workshop, you may register just for the workshop if you do not wish 
Distance-Aware Routing with Copy Control in 
Vehicle-Based DTNs 
 
Wei-Zen Lo   Jhih-Siao Gao   Shou-Chih Lo 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
National Dong Hwa University 
Hualien 974, Taiwan ROC 
e-mail: sclo@mail.ndhu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—Delay-Tolerant Networks (DTNs) are special types of 
network environments that are subject to delays and disruptions. 
Traditional end-to-end routing fails in DTNs due to intermittent 
connections. We apply the concept of DTN to vehicular 
environments, and propose a new routing protocol that applies 
both diversity and accuracy in routing decisions. Our proposed 
routing has one excellent feature that supports its use for a 
distributed location discovery service. We evaluate this routing, 
using a real street map, in terms of different performance aspects. 
Experimental results show the superiority of this protocol over 
other existing ones. 
Keywords-VANET; DTN; Routing; Conditional Flooding 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Traditional Internet protocols malfunction in challenged 
networks such as interplanetary and deep-space networks in 
which communications are subject to delays and disruptions 
[1]. These challenged networks are generalized as Delay-
Tolerant Networks (DTNs), so named by Kevin Fall in 2002 
[2]. A DTN has characteristic properties: high and variable 
latency, low data rate, frequent disconnection, and high error 
rate. Node mobility contributes greatly to these characteristics. 
A store-and-forward mechanism is commonly used to transfer 
data in a DTN. A node can carry and store data in its own 
buffer, and forward these data to other connected nodes when 
they are available. The basic unit of data transmission in DTNs 
is called a message or bundle. 
Many application domains using DTNs have been studied 
and extended to wireless networks such as Mobile Ad Hoc 
Networks (MANET), Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (VANET), 
and Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN). In the VANET, 
communication between two vehicles is intermittent due to the 
changes in driving speed and direction. VANETs have all the 
properties of challenged networks, and can be viewed as 
vehicle-based DTNs. 
The routing protocols designed for DTNs and VANETs 
have been individually studied in different contexts. For 
example, contact-based routing in DTNs makes use of human 
social interaction. Location-based routing is appropriate in 
VANETs for GPS-equipped vehicles. Here, we hope to design 
a new routing protocol suitable for a vehicle-based DTN by 
combining these different methodologies. 
A stable end-to-end routing path is hard to maintain if 
connections are intermittent. Most DTN routing protocols rely 
on the concept of message replication and path diversity, 
which generates many message copies to be routed 
individually along different paths. This feature of routing 
diversity can greatly increase the message delivery ratio, but 
also will cause a negative effect if too many message copies 
are generated. 
However, most VANET routing protocols do not consider 
the routing diversity based on message replication but make 
good use of vehicle locations to increase routing accuracy. The 
weakness of this kind of routing strategy is the extra overhead 
required to set up a location server from which the current 
location of a vehicle can be obtained. 
In this paper, we propose a flexible and efficient routing 
protocol which achieves both routing diversity and routing 
accuracy. By developing a new location discovery method, we 
eliminate any need for location servers, but still realize 
location-based routing operations. Moreover, we use certain 
criteria to restrict the scope of message replication.  
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II 
gives a brief survey of DTN routing protocols. The proposed 
routing is presented in Section III. Performance comparisons 
are presented in Section VI. Finally, we make some concluding 
remarks in Section V. 
II. RELATED WORK 
Most research efforts in DTN routing focus on two things: 
buffer management and routing decisions. One major task 
involved in buffer management is the arrangement of message 
transmission order and message drop order. This task can be 
accomplished by sorting messages in a buffer according to 
certain information indexes such as message received time, 
message remaining life time, and message delivery hop. 
The routing decision aims to determine how to replicate and 
forward message copies to suitable nodes that are evaluated 
with regard to certain metrics such as contact frequency and 
contact waiting time.  DTN routing protocols can be roughly 
classified into three categories according to how many copies 
of the same message are created: forwarding, quota-replication, 
and flooding. In a forwarding scheme, a single-copy message is 
forwarded through successive intermediate nodes to the 
destination. A quota-replication scheme creates a limited 
number of message copies as specified by a quota. A flooding 
scheme creates an extremely large number of message copies 
and spreads them into the whole network.  
This research was partially supported by National Science Council of the 
Republic of China under Contract No. NSC 100-2221-E-259-020. 
 NTABLEi: neighbor information table. 
 
M-LIST is used to avoid transmitting redundant messages 
to a node. I-LIST is used to clean other message copies from 
the buffer when one message copy has reached the destination. 
When a destination node successfully receives a message, this 
node adds a new record with a timestamp for this message to its 
I-LIST. Two contact nodes will exchange and merge their I-
LISTs. The timestamp is used to remove an old and useless 
record in I-LIST by setting an expired time. 
D-LIST is the base of our distributed location service and 
contains records in this form {i, POSi, MOVi, TSi}. A node will 
declare itself as a destination node if this node receives a 
message that is destined for it. Moreover, the role of a 
destination node is removed when this node does not receive 
any destined messages after a certain time period. A destination 
node has the responsibility to announce a motion record 
including node ID, current POS and MOV values, and the 
current timestamp to any encountered nodes. All non-
destination nodes will collect these motion records into a D-
LIST. Moreover, two contact nodes will exchange and merge 
their D-LISTs. In the merging, an old motion record is replaced 
by a new one by referring to the timestamp, and is even deleted 
by means of setting an expired time. After successive contact 
events between nodes, the location information of a destination 
node is gradually spread into the whole network. Based on this 
motion record, a node can easily estimate the current position 
of a destination node i by computing this value: POSi + (current 
time – TSi)×MOVi. 
NTABLE records data about all the current neighbors of 
one node. For a neighboring node i, we keep a record in this 
form {i, POSi, MOVi, TSi, M-LISTi} and insert it into 
NTABLE. A joining or leaving neighbor is detected by 
listening to the beacon message. 
C. Routing Algorithm 
DARCC contains two basic procedures: contact and routing. 
The contact procedure is performed when two nodes encounter 
each other for information exchange. The operations in the 
procedure are illustrated from the viewpoint of one side, but 
they are actually performed by both sides. The routing 
procedure is executed for routing messages in the buffer. The 
following notations are used in our algorithm: 
 DST(m): destination node of message m. 
 MC(m): number of neighboring nodes that hold message m. 
 DIS(a, b): Euclidean distance between nodes a and b. 
 
In the routing procedure, we propose a new sorting policy 
to manage the buffer. Suppose that each message in the buffer 
is annotated with a hop count, which is the number of hops 
taken from the source for the message. Then we put those 
messages whose destination locations can be found in the D-
LIST into the first part of the buffer, and put the remaining 
messages into the second part. The first part is placed before 
the second one in the buffer. Messages in the first part are 
sorted in ascending order of distances to their destinations, and 
messages in the second part are sorted in ascending order of 
hop counts. 
The transmission order is from the head to the tail of the 
buffer. That is, we give low transmission priority to a message 
that is far away from its destination or has travelled the 
network via many hops. Moreover, when the buffer cannot 
accommodate a newly received message, the message at the 
tail of the buffer is dropped first. 
 
Contact Procedure 
When node i contacts node j, 
Refresh M-LISTi from QUEUEi. 
If i has declared itself as a destination node, 
           Update a new motion record of i into D-LISTi. 
End if 
Transmit POSi, MOVi, I-LISTi, M-LISTi, and D-LISTi to  
j. 
If i and j have successfully exchanged the above data,  
Merge two I-LISTs into a new I-LISTi. 
Merge two D-LISTs into a new D-LISTi. 
Record the information of j into NTABLEi 
Remove records of those messages that are indicated  
in I-LISTi from QUEUEi. 
End if 
Routing Procedure 
While (True), 
If (QUEUEi and NTABLEi are not empty), 
           For each message m in QUEUEi, 
           If DST(m) is in NTABLEi, 
                   Copy m to DST(m) directly. 
                   Remove m from QUEUEi. 
               End if 
           End for 
Sort messages in QUEUEi, 
For each message m in QUEUEi, 
Compute MC(m) from NTABLEi. 
              If (DST(m) can be found in D-LISTi and MC(m)<1), 
                   Let k be the closest node to DST(m) among the  
nodes without holding m in NTABLEi.  
If DIS(DST(m), k) < DIS(DST(m), i), 
Copy m to node k. 
Add m into M-LISTk in NTABLEi. 
End if 
                    Else if (i is close to a junction and MC(m)<2) or 
 (MC(m)<1) 
Let k be the node with the largest variation in  
moving direction with i among the nodes without  
holding m in NTABLEi.  
Copy m to node k. 
Add m into M-LISTk in NTABLEi 
             End if 
           End for 
      Else, 
 Wait for a timer. 
End if 
End while 
IV. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
We evaluate routing performance using the Opportunistic 
Network Environment (ONE) simulator [15]. A city street map 
of size 3000 m × 3000 m is imported from the TIGER database 
[16]. Each road has two forward lanes and two reverse lanes. 
One hundred vehicles are generated using VanetMobiSim [17].  
The average moving speed of each vehicle is 60 km/h. 
The parameter settings of our experiments are listed in 
Table 1. Fixed-size messages are constantly generated per 
interval time during a generation period. Message source nodes 
  
Figure 4.  Delivery ratio with static destinations. 
  
Figure 5.  Average relay cost with static destinations. 
 
Figure 6.  Effective latency with static destinations. 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
There are many emerging applications for VANETs based 
on considerations of safety and comfort. Efficient data 
dissemination is the basic requirement for the success of these 
applications. Traditional VANET routing considers motion-
related information about a vehicle to increase routing accuracy, 
but still has a low delivery ratio. In this paper, we combine the 
DTN routing mechanisms of message replication and store-
and-forward into VANET routing. 
Our proposed routing is based on both routing diversity and 
routing accuracy, and achieves excellent performance in both 
delivery ratio and effective latency.  We use the contact 
behavior among vehicles to gradually disseminate destination 
locations into the whole network. This method alleviates the 
need to use a centralized location server, which makes our 
routing more practical than other routing schemes. 
In the future, we would consider a method to aggregate or 
compress the exchanged data in the network to reduce 
transmission overhead. An extension of our work by assuming 
that only parts of vehicles are equipped with GPS devices will 
be studied. 
REFERENCES 
[1] A. McMahon and S. Farrell, “Delay- and Disruption-Tolerant 
Networking,” IEEE Internet Computing, vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 82-87, Nov. 
2009. 
[2] K. Fall, “A Delay-Tolerant Network Architecture for Challenged 
Internets,” in Proc. ACM SIGCOMM Conf., pp. 27-34, Aug. 2003. 
[3] E. P. C. Jones, L. Li, and P. A. S. Ward, “Practical Routing in Delay-
Tolerant Networks,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Computing, vol. 6, no. 8, pp. 
943-959, Aug. 2007. 
[4] E. M. Daly and M. Haahr, “Social Network Analysis for Routing in 
Disconnected Delay-Tolerant MANETs,” in Proc. ACM MobiHoc Conf., 
pp. 32-40, Sept. 2007. 
[5] A. Vahdat and D. Becker, “Epidemic Routing for Partially-Connected 
Ad Hoc Networks,” Duke University, Technical Report CS-200006, Apr. 
2000. 
[6] J. Burgess, B. Gallagher, D. Jensen, and B. N. Levine, “MaxProp: 
Routing for Vehicle-Based Disruption-Tolerant Networks,” in Proc. 
IEEE INFOCOM Conf., pp. 1-11, Apr. 2006. 
[7] T. Spyropoulos, K. Psounis, and C. S. Raghavendra, “Spray and Wait: 
An Efficient Routing Scheme for Intermittently Connected Mobile 
Networks,” in Proc. ACM SIGCOMM Workshop, pp. 252-259, Aug. 
2005. 
[8] S. C. Nelson, M. Bakht, and R. Kravets, “Encounter-Based Routing in 
DTNs,” in Proc. IEEE INFOCOM Conf., pp. 846-854, Apr. 2009. 
[9] B. Karp and H. T. Kung, “GPSR: greedy perimeter stateless routing for 
wireless networks,” in Proc. MobiCom, pp. 243–254, 2000. 
[10] S. C. Lo, M. H. Chiang, J. H. Liou, and J. S. Gao, “Routing and 
Buffering Strategies in Delay-Tolerant Networks: Survey and 
Evaluation,” in Proc. IEEE ICPP Workshop, Sept. 2011. 
[11] H. Y. Huang, P. E. Luo, M. Li, D. Li, X. Li, W. Shu, and M. Y. Wu, 
“Performance Evaluation of SUVnet with Real-Time Traffic Data,” 
IEEE Trans. Vehicular Technology, vol. 56, no. 6, pp. 3381-3396, Nov. 
2007. 
[12] H. Kang and D. Kim, “Vector Routing for Delay Tolerant Networks,” in 
Proc. IEEE VTC Conf., pp. 1-5, Sept. 2008. 
[13] X. Li; W. Shu, M. Li, H. Y. Huang, and M. Y. Wu, “DTN Routing in 
Vehicular Sensor Networks,” in Proc. IEEE Global Telecommunications 
Conf., pp.1-5, Nov. 2008. 
[14] G. Sandulescu and S. Nadjm-Tehrani, “Adding Redundancy to 
Replication in Window-Aware Delay-Tolerant Routing,” Journal of 
Communications, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 117-129, Feb. 2010. 
[15] A. Keränen, J. Ott and T. Kärkkäinen, “The ONE Simulator for DTN 
Protocol Evaluation,” in Proc. SIMUTools, Mar. 2009. 
[16] Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing system, 
http://www.census.gov/geo/www/tiger/ 
[17] J. Härri, M. Fiore, F. Fethi and C. Bonnet, “VanetMobiSim: generating 
realistic mobility patterns for VANETs,” in Proc. ACM Intl. Workshop 
on Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks, Sep. 2006. 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：羅壽之 計畫編號：100-2221-E-259-020- 
計畫名稱：延遲容忍網路技術與應用開發 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 5 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
以發表四篇研討會論文，一篇期刊論文在撰寫中 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
我們完成了延遲容忍網路技術與應用開發的緩衝空間管理、壅塞控制以及單播路由探討與
設計工作，並符合計畫預期之成果。我們基於 ONE 模擬軟體上開發完整的測試平台，透過
模擬驗證我們提出的方法效能，實驗結果顯示本計畫所提出的方法，可以有效的提高可靠
性並具備較低的延遲時間，相較與之前的方法更有效率。在學術卓越方面，本計畫的研究
成果已經被國際研討會接受並發表。 
 
研究成果相關論文發表： 
1. W. Z. Lo, J. S. Gao, and S. C. Lo, ＇＇Distance-Aware Routing with Copy Control 
in Vehicle-Based DTNs,＇＇ IEEE VTC Conference, May 2012.  
2. S. C. Lo, M. H. Chiang, J. H. Liou, and J. S. Gao, ＇Routing and Buffering 
Strategies in Delay-Tolerant Networks: Survey and Evaluation,＇ Proc. IEEE ICPP 
Workshop, Sept. 2011 
3. S. C. Lo and Chuan-Lung Lu, ＇＇A Dynamic Congestion Control Based Routing for 
Delay-Tolerant Networks,＇＇ International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and 
Knowledge Discovery, May 2012.  
4. S. C. Lo and W. R. Liou, ＇＇Dynamic Quota-Based Routing in Delay-Tolerant 
Networks,＇＇ IEEE VTC Conference, May 2012. 
