1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
建立居家生活脈絡與產品使用行為的關係模式(II)  
Modeling the Relationships between Context of Use and 
Behavior Pattern in Domestic Environment (II) 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 97-2221-E-009-096 
執 行 期 限：97年 08月 01日至 98年 10月 31日 
主 持 人：鄧怡莘副教授 國立交通大學應用藝術研究所 
共同主持人：游曉貞助理教授 國立臺中技術學院多媒體設計系 
計畫參與人員：黃可薰、周雨虹、陳炫劭 
 
一、中文摘要 
隨著近年新技術與新產品開發的蓬勃發展，
遍佈運算的各項應用已在我們日常居家生活中成
為必須且隨處可見的。當這些遍佈運算的產品逐
漸我們的日常生活中普及並扮演重要的角色時，
我們需要對產品在居家生活脈絡中的使用行為，
以及其所牽涉的層面做進一步的了解，作為未來
企圖以家庭為研究與設計場域時設計與研究團隊
能有分析的基礎，幫助設計師做出產品的規劃。 
本計畫第一年首先針對使用者在居家中生活
使用產品與行為活動脈絡進行其行為模式的研究
與建構，第二年則進一步探討當人造物介入其生
活脈絡後，人們與人、裝置、環境等因素所衍生
的互動及行為方式改變，透過前後活動模型的建
構，分析並歸納在產品介入居家生活的情況下，
使用行為所產生的變化因素與狀況。期望對於未
來當新技術導入生活中時提供具體的知識和參考
的基礎。 
關鍵詞：居家生活脈絡；產品使用脈絡；使用行
為模式；分析模式建構 
Abstract 
According to the flourishing technology and the 
well-developed product, the applications of 
Ubiquitous Computing have applied in our domestic 
environment. Based on field study, this research 
aims at developing an analytical model for studying 
context of use and user behavior in the domestic 
environment. In the first year of this study, 
contextual inquiry conducted to gather the general 
factors of behavior patterns and the attitudes of 
family members when they interact with artifacts 
and other people in their daily life. In the second 
year, we observe the difference of user’s activity, 
interaction and the user behavior after the 
intervention of artifact for building and analyzing the 
reasons and factors behind. An analytical model of 
users context and user behavior was formulated to 
facilitate the investigation of new technology and 
design in other field in the future. 
Keywords: domestic environment, contextual 
inquiry, behavior patterns, analytical model 
二、前言 
隨著科技進步與發展，電腦普遍進入我們的
日常生活中，人們與資訊產品互動時間越來越
長，這些產品並漸漸扮演著我們生活中不可或缺
的角色。現今人機互動（ Human-Computer 
Interaction, HCI）的研究開始轉向從使用者的
角度，運用社會科學及人類學的研究方法，檢視
使用者在生活中使用資訊產品的真實樣貌，使資
3 
互動集散地分成Ecological habitats, Activity 
centers, Coordinate displays 三種區域[2]。
這些區域是由於行動者所採取的行動與建築空
間、物品擺設的交互作用所產生的行動累積效
果。除了居家內部的結構探討，有些學者也關注
居家場域透過科技的力量與外部社會結構連結的
現況，說明居家科技輔助、增進或增生家庭外部
社會組織結構的連結的現象。也說明了家庭生活
脈絡與其他社會組織所形成的社會文化脈絡，某
些部分亦因為科技的導入而產生新的社會結構
[3]。 
    生活脈絡、產品使用脈絡以及人們使用產品
的行為模式的交互作用下會影響科技的採用以及
科技串連不同的空間的形式。生活脈絡之中包含
了文化面、科技面、空間面、活動面以及角色面
等。而產品身處在科技空間或者物質空間，扮演
了媒介或延伸家庭成員進出社會空間以及活動空
間的多重角色。 
四、研究方法 
在第一年的計畫中，研究以受訪者的客廳作
為探索場域，藉由日誌、探針紀錄與脈絡訪查的
進行，深入了解他們在客廳中發生某些活動中，
生活脈絡與產品使用行為的組成因素，建構並整
理出他們生活使用產品與活動的行為模式(圖一
至四)。以此成果為基礎，在第二年計畫中，我們
想進一步瞭解人們在科技的影響下所造成的新型
態的活動方式與結構的改變模式。 
 
圖一、年長者居家生活之溝通脈絡 
 
 
 
圖二、年長者溝通行為所使用之聯絡資訊 
 
 
圖三、年長者通訊活動場域 
 
圖四、影響年長者溝通行為之文化背景 
本研究針對年紀54歲以上擁有不同生活型態
的年長者在居家環境生活中溝通與社交活動的脈
絡，為了觀察其媒體的使用互動與行為，研究依
照他們的生活脈絡，在活動場域中置入人造物
（artifact）後，觀察其生活型態的改變。 
5 
 
 
圖七、年長者通訊脈絡預測情況與實際變化 
五、研究發現 
    經由人造物置入的探索，以及兩個階段脈絡
訪查的進行，針對年長者居家生活的溝通狀況建
立工作模式（圖八）並做出分析比較後，統整歸
納出以下發現，結果如下表。 
使用者 預期中變化 未預期之實際變化 
U1 1. 願意使用簡
訊 
1. 因簡訊轉寄功能附
加其他資訊不敢傳
送 
2. 因女兒出國而開始
使用網路電話及視
訊 
3. 使用書寫輸入方式
克服不會注音 
U2 1. 主動邀請好
友加入 MSN 
2. 放棄資訊背
誦記憶 
3. 資料經由電
腦彙整 
1. 使用 e-mail發送資
訊 
2. 改變群組分類方式 
3. 公司禁止上班使用
MSN等通訊軟體 
4. 將資訊列印出來 
U3 1. 能透過簡訊
向家人傳達
心理需求 
1. 看護使用手機簡訊 
2. 看護篩選訊息接收
人 
3. 明信片選擇性有
限，無法表達情況 
4. 明信片投遞困難 
U4 1. 願意使用簡
訊 
1. 簡訊操作步驟繁複 
2. 習慣以電話聯絡親
友並寒暄 
U5 1. 抗拒新工具
的使用 
2. 親友開始傳
送簡訊 
1. 簡訊只讀不發送 
2. 不主動回應訊息 
比較五個受測的使用者在接觸使用人造物後
通訊行為脈絡預測的變化部分，探討預測其中改
變及實際改變項目與其原因： 
 
圖八、年長者原先通訊與投入人造物後資訊互動關
係變化對照 
 
符合預期的脈絡變化 
  符合預測的脈絡變化可分為 1.生活工具的演
化、2.生活習慣與背景的改變、3.對身邊親友的
影響等三個方面。分別說明如下： 
1.生活工具的演化:帶給使用者更加便利的使用
模式，如 U2由於使用電腦後便不需再以背誦方式
記憶資訊；U3也因為新工具得以表達心理上的需
求，不需等到會面時才傳達訊息。 
2.生活習慣與背景的改變：則像是 U5對學習新工
具時較其他使用者有許多主觀的意見，亦提及自
己對於使用簡訊的疑慮，因此即使學會閱讀簡
訊，也不主動予以回覆。U1與 U5在了解使用操作
簡訊後，考量到收訊者的使用能力與安全性，即
便自己學會了使用這樣的工具，也不願意讓親友
在使用上有任何的疑慮，寧可選擇較為保守或簡
單的工具聯繫。 
3.對身邊親友的影響：新的工具除了改變使用者
本身，連帶的也影響周遭的人，U2 因為使用 MSN
的關係，極力邀請身邊友人一起加入使用，U5也
因訪談測試中幫他發佈了群組簡訊，對方認為可
以使用簡訊溝通，使得親友有時會以簡訊問候，
讓他們除了電話之外，還讓親友多了簡訊與他們
的問候或聯繫的機會。 
非預期的脈絡變化 
  比較兩階段的資料，歸納出年長者不同於預
測的因素有下列六個方面：１.環境限制、2.操作
能力、3.工具特性、4.生活需求、5.個人習慣、
6.親友影響。 
1.環境限制：U2與 U3分別因為工作環境禁止使用
即時通訊軟體，以及看護無法抽身投遞明信片而
7 
Communication in the Home of the Twenty-First 
Century: an Analysis of the Future of Paper-Mail 
and Implications for the Design of Electronic 
Alternatives, Cognition, Technology, and Work, 
vol.5, pp 15-22. 
[5] O’Brien, J., Rodden, T., Rouncefield, M., 
Hughes, J., 
(1999) At Home with the Technology: an 
Ethnographic Study of a Set-top-box Trial. ACM 
Transactions on Computer-HumanInteraction 6(3) 
pp 282-308 
 
表 Y04 
報告內容包括下列各項： 
一、 參加會議經過 
The World Congress on Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences研討會，試著將跨領
域的研究與觀點提供一個互相交流的平台，參與者包含了世界各國的研究者、科學
家與工程師、學者，讓人文與科技能夠有機會彼此分享經驗和新概念，以及這些不
同領域的近期研究成果，特別是讓人文和社會科學的關注帶到資訊科技領域中。  
主辦單位WASET（World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology，世界科
學、工程與技術學會），是一組織龐大的國際科技與工程學會，每年固定於世界各國
舉行不同主題的研討會，讓各國學界的工程與技術能彼此分享其概念與發展成果。
而今年於巴黎所舉行的世界藝術人文與社會科學會議，更特別將人文與藝術作為核
心議題，並加入了社會科學與文化上的設計思維，以擴充目前科技與工程技術可能
發展的面向之深度廣度。 
本會議所包含的討論的議題有以下幾個類別（由於內容繁多以下例舉）： 
一、電機工程與資訊技術 
 電子工程、電力與控制： Retention Pond, FPGA, Induction motor, PSIM, 
Voltage Controller, Hydraulic Machine, Hydro Electric Dam, EIA, ICOLD, 
Propulsion Mechanism, Elastic Wing, Field-oriented Control, Solar Power 
Generation, Voltage Drop, Cogeneration, PWM Inverter, Induction Motor, 
Fluid Force, MOSFET, Capacitance, High Field Stress, Charged Defects, 
ECG, Heart Rate Variability, Low Voltage Network, RR-inervals, etc.  
 環境工程：Factor Analysis, Garden City, Green Belt, Green City, Green 
Space Forests, Natural Resources, Pastures, Population, etc. 
 運輸：Sustainable Transport, Mobility Management (MM), Land Use 
Planning (LUP), Innovative U-turn Facility, Microsimulation, Travel Time, 
Unconventional Intersection Design, etc. 
 行動通訊：Mobile Agent, Mobile Computing, Partial Connection, etc. 
二、資訊科技 
 訊號分析：Digital Signal Filtering, Machining Monitoring, Noise 
Cancelling, Sound. 
 人工智慧：Artificial Intelligence, etc. 
 資訊系統：System crashes, Hardware, Software, Security. Technology, 
Technological evaluation, Technology Maturity, Info-Works RS, etc. 
 多媒體(影像辨識、資料加密與壓縮等)：Finite Element Geometries, Data 
Fitting (head muscles\facial animation), Hash Function, Cryptography, 
Block Cipher, Message, Compression, Encoding, Tampering detection, 
Watermark Detector, Watermark Embedder, Watermark Message, etc. 
 認知與資訊設計：Cognitive Dissonance, Cognitive Psychology, 
Information Processing. 
表 Y04 
大，也使得各學者發表後討論時間問題的深度受到限制，也使得聽眾難以選取某特
定議題的場次來參與。除此之外，所分配的口頭報告時間也因為各場次的主持人而
有所不同，亦即並非所有的發表者都能享有同樣的時間，由於這種時間安排上的鬆
散，想旁聽的與會者也沒有機會掌握想聽的論文發表時間。在會議期間亦發現，部
分主持人是於報到當天方才獲得自己所主持場次的所有論文之資料，這使得許多主
持人難以介紹和掌握場次的研究內容，這些缺失是該學會於法國的主辦單位應當檢
討的部份。 
三、 建議 
綜觀此研討會，與會的研究學者眾多，並來自於不同文化、國家，的確提供各
國學者有良好的機會理解和認識他國的研究方法和思潮。然而由於研討會的議題過
於寬廣，使發表之論文也相對的龐雜、繁複，並使得參與者不易安排適當的參與議
程。另外一明顯的特徵是，亞洲的參與者，尤其是台灣，較沒有勇氣於會議中參與
討論、發表自己的想法和意見，這使得學術交流的機會大為減少。在發表後的討論
過程中，能更深刻的感受到來自歐美以及印度、中亞的學者，就算所屬的領域與發
表論文議題不盡相同，也會對於發表者的研究方法、過程內容，提出適當的疑問和
建議、鼓勵，我想這是所有參與研討會的人最希望獲得的經驗分享，也是最有價值
的地方。或許台灣在未來教育學子的過程中，應當更鼓勵學子勇於發問、參與課堂
討論。 
四、 攜回資料名稱與內容 
1. 研討會之論文集，部分之書刊（該研討會將相關的論文以二十篇左右為一單位印
製，因此只獲得收錄自己發表論文之部分論文集）。 
2. 研討會之論文集，完整 CD。 
五、 其他  
  
 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 54 2009 
 660
school students because a senior high school takes it a 
responsibility to help its students prepare themselves for getting 
into a university with a fine reputation. Matter-of-factly, senior 
high school students are under the academic competition 
pressure and for them university education is a top priority. 
After school, most parents also spend extra money sending 
their children to a cram school to learn more. Due to the tight 
schedule, making friends for them is to find friends from their 
classmates. However, there is no room for teenagers to have 
social activities with others.  
The only fun the teenagers might have is to get on the 
Internet to surf the websites if they can steal some time at home 
after the long-hours studying. No doubt the majority of the 
teenagers in Taiwan are happily to be able to get on the Internet 
as often as possible. On different websites, the teenagers give 
themselves freedom to explore things new or challenging. 
However, parents do not approve their children, who are 
supposed to concentrate on school work, to have a face-to-face 
gathering with an online pal. Besides, they believe it might 
expose their children to risk especially when they are not 
companied by a reliable acquaintance. It is generally believed 
that online pals might hide their real identities. 
B. The CrazyVote 
CrazyVote (CV) is a project for efficiency-evaluation of a 
technology company in Taiwan (Fig.1a). For system testing, it 
is designed as a web-based social platform, which provides 
teenagers personal web space to easily access, including diaries 
(blogs), photos, and personal message boards.  
 
Fig. 1 (a) CrazyVote website (b) Admirer list  
 
The major characteristic of the CrazyVote is the appreciation 
of others’ photos. It is different from regular on-line photo 
albums. Its rule is that a user can post only one photo on the CV, 
for the advantage of enabling users to browse all the photos of 
others in a short period of time. If the photo of a user is 
appreciated by others, who will give it a point ranked from 1 to 
10, and 10 point means that the photo is the most admirable. 
The identity of the admirer shows when a high point arrives. 
Hence, the user is able to give a point back to that admirer about 
how he or she appreciates the admirer’s photo too (Fig.1b). To 
rank others photo with a simple click and to notify users of 
where the praise comes from make CrazyVote very unique. The 
simple interaction promises that one can definitely come into 
contact with others easily.  
In addition to the space for users to write their diaries, 
bulletins and the name list of good friends, users can also share 
the information of their life context. The Map: Where Users 
Live shown in Fig.2, reveals how close those young users live 
to each other. It makes those who live not far away from each 
other have more local topics and experiences to talk about and 
to share. That makes the CV totally different from other 
websites too, and then the localization and familiarity do 
deliver young users a possibility of making an online pal 
ending up a friend in reality. 
 
Fig. 2 The Map: Where Users Live 
 
In 2008 summer, there were more than 25,000 young people 
registered on CrazyVote, and it became the biggest social 
website for teenagers in Taiwan. Not surprisingly, 55% of the 
CV users were senior high school students while 24% are 
freshmen and sophomores. The main reason for its popularity is 
that online pals can be real, safe, cool, simple, easy to chat and 
interact without age differences because users are mainly 
between 16 and 19 years old, and they are the original target 
users of the CV. During the summer vacation in 2008, some of 
the CV users take an action voluntarily to recruit some users to 
have a face-to-face together and turn the online interaction 
among users into reality. 
C. Cultural and social context in Design Issues 
People interact with others through many social cues, 
including those determined by facial expression, eye contact, 
gesture, tone of voice, and temperament. In common ground 
theory, it is suggested that people are constantly checking these 
social cues to make certain they are attaining mutual 
understanding. A shortage of social information will have a 
direct impact on communication [2][19]. By referring to the 
theories of social science, many studies have dealt with the 
importance of social concerns in technology developments 
[20][21]. However, social issues are fundamentally related to 
cultural dimensions. In different cultures, people’s social 
activities, common understanding and needs are naturally not 
the same. In other words, the social issues emerging from 
interaction and interface design also represent the influence of 
contextual and cultural differences.  
Since social context is one of the most important issues, 
understanding the culture that sustains a whole society is a must 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 54 2009 
 662
of the club forming phenomenon, including the reasons of 
forming voluntarily, club structures, teenagers’ social 
relationships and activities.  
 
A. Clubs Forming on CrazyVote 
Three distinctive online clubs were formed continuously 
during the summer in 2008. All the young promoters have their 
own definite purposes and reasons to make friends, which 
indeed represent teenagers’ perceptions and needs for their 
social life. 
1) Having more actual social activities with on-line pals 
The first club is named Saint, which was formed by a 
19-year-olded user, Pz. He wanted to make a team or a 
gathering with other CV users to do something interesting, new 
or different.  
In the beginning, Pz and his roommates added Saint in front 
of their CV accounts for the sake of a special identity to show 
their close friendships. In July 2008, he thought it might be cool 
to put into action to post the idea on his own blog to recruit 
other users to join them and form a club online. A few days 
after that, about fifty users were happily to join his on-line club, 
and entitled this club “Saint.” The club members exchanged 
their personal information, started to chat with each other 
through MSN and Yahoo messengers, and held several 
different actual activities. 
2) Making congenial friends by restrictions 
Following Pz’s step, other users started to form their own 
clubs for different reasons or purpose. A distinguishing club, 
mdc, was named after the initials of its three promoters and was 
set up for a clear purpose for making a circle of friends who 
must be congenial to each other one way or another.  
The mdc promoters made a request that their members must 
have some qualifications. For example, a club member’s score 
has to achieve 9000 points (which are ranked by other 
CrazyVote users) and there must be more than 20 users on his 
or her own friend list. The exacting restriction also reflects that 
the club founders expect their members already have logined in 
CV website at a certain time and are very enthusiastic about 
making friends with others. In addition, the membership of mdc 
club is limited. The club promoters select a few members each 
time, and even give a thought to the gender ratio while 
recruiting. 
3) Removing limitation with understandings 
Since August 2008, another club CHIV has appeared on the 
website, which has no restrictions on member recruiting. At the 
Fig. 3 An enhanced cultural model for teenagers’ club forming phenomenon 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 54 2009 
 664
the details, such as when and where to manage an activity, 
through online chat room or messenger. Later, the club leader 
or activity promoter will collect and sort all suggestions for the 
members to choose their favorite one through the voting system 
on the Internet. The final decision will be bulletined on Club’s 
official site and in the club leader’s CV blog, which is made a 
final check to confirm who will participate to put the idea into 
action. In this case, the entire process of planning such an 
activity does not take a lot of time since all will be done on the 
websites. 
2) Club activities are cohesive and diverse 
Club members make arrangements for varied outdoor 
activities, such as going to a theme park, shopping, and singing 
at KTV (karaoke house in Taiwan), and they also develop their 
own online culture, like forming a small group to play online 
games or to chorus on Yahoo messenger: 
We...about 20 to 30 members of our club…are very close now. 
There are more than ten members who participate in outdoor 
activities from time to time in Taipei…(B. In-depth interview. 27 
August 2008, translated from Chinese). 
We chat online every day and talk about everything. We play 
guitar and prepare our own music accompaniment to sing songs 
together on Yahoo IM Conferencing…Some people chat, some 
people sing, and some people request songs. It looks like sort of 
online KTV (A. In-depth interview. 27 August 2008, translated 
from Chinese) 
Having leisure activities, these teenagers are also promoting 
the image of their club, and trying to make all club members 
feel close to each other and like to belong to the club. As shown 
in Fig. 4, they held a badge design competition for the club, and 
proposed to use the first design to make their own uniforms and 
peaked caps. Furthermore, they decided to write a song for the 
club: 
Most of our members can make the animated GIF pictures, and we 
designed many logos as club badges…. There are no specific rules in 
our badge design competition. However, we set the prize that we will 
apply the winner’s graphic design to make our uniform, a T-shirt 
probably, and the winner will receive a free one (A. In-depth interview. 
27 August 2008, translated from Chinese).  
 
Fig. 4 A badge design competition of club Saint 
 
In the foregoing section, it is mentioned that the distance for 
teenagers causes the clubs to separate north chapters from south 
chapters. The regional differences, therefore, are reflected by 
the club members’ subjects, attitudes, habitual behaviors and 
the type of usual social activities. Most interviewees consider 
the members in the south of Taiwan are much more native, 
enthusiastic and active, even though the members of north 
chapters are more. These south chapters have held a lot of 
small-group activities by themselves, and they are fond of 
sharing the wonderful experiences to others by posting the 
travel notes. In fact, the frequent outings encourage more club 
members to join such actual social activities.  
D. Social Contacts of Club Members 
If   Teenagers want to make more friends and have actual 
social interactions beyond the virtual online community. At the 
outset, the members congregate in the online chat room to 
discuss the time and the place to have a get-together party. 
Having common topics gradually increasing, the group talk 
continues every day and makes club members more familiar 
with each other. They care for each other and have established 
ties of comradeship.  
In addition, one of the interviewees even believes that the 
club he belongs to is just like a big class, where students are 
very keen to know their classmates. The sense of belonging of 
an organization itself brings natural relationships among the 
members.  
Before clubbing, I logined CrazyVote every day, but do 
nothing special…But now, there is a sense of belonging, and I 
have more motivations to visit here. I know I have a lot of friends, 
right here (C. In-depth interview. 27 August 2008, translated 
from Chinese). 
I post something innermost in the blog…They (club members) 
may encourage me or respond to it with a message, which is very 
worth reading…It is some kind of attachment… (E. In-depth 
interview. 27 August 2008, translated from Chinese). 
The club members have more interactions than those who do 
not join the club. In the study, 80 active users who regularly 
visited CrazyVote website were selected and their general 
online activities have been recorded. Half of the subjects are 
members of one of the clubs, and the others are ordinary users 
who are active on-line but do not join any club. In Fig. 5, the 
light blue line shows how many CrazyVote users there are that 
a club member interacts with in his\her own message board per 
day, and the dark blue line indicates the number of users that an 
ordinary user interacts with. As shown in the figure, those who 
join the clubs make friends faster and easily and then attract 
more users to visit their message boards. Since the first club 
Saint was formed in the beginning of July, the average of users 
each club member might interact with has increased obviously. 
In Fig. 6, the light green line shows an average of users who 
visit a club member’s blog per day, and the dark green line 
indicates an average of users who visit an ordinary user’s blog. 
Since clubs were formed, the average number of users who 
might share their sentiments on a club member’s blog has 
increased from 3 to 13.  
The sense of belonging also makes club members try to 
strengthen their own club like a small society. Leaders 
encourage members to participate in club activities, and 
members try to build the image of their own club by making the 
badges, uniforms and songs. They browse friends’ CV blogs 
and message boards every day to make sure that they do care 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 54 2009 
 666
interviewees even declined to make friends with those they 
were not able to meet in reality. Their major considerations of 
making friends reveal that the teenagers’ intention to have real 
contacts with online pals. 
B. From Online Community to Real Contacts 
Followed the active purpose of teenager’s club forming, their 
on-line social interactions didn’t satisfy them anymore but 
having face-to-face gatherings. Teenagers then decided not to 
be restricted on the Internet and established real relationships 
with on-line friends in reality. The essence of the whole online 
social circle is bound to real life indeed, which could be 
demonstrated in several perspectives like social identity, 
activities, and the scope of social activities. 
1) Social identity  
Most teenagers do not have the concept of virtual 
relationship. As the most important social cue, identity directly 
affects the essence of social contact. Recently, a fundamental 
problem for social software is the difficulty to establish trust 
and to convey earnest feeling owing to the lake of social cues. 
However, in this case of teenagers’ social behaviors, this 
problem does not occur. In the first place, most teenagers used 
their true identities to get online, and without reluctance gave 
their personal information, such as age how old they are, place 
where they live, and school where they go to. Hence, they 
believed that most users and online clubs they formed have no 
difference from people and communities in a real world.  
2) Activity 
In the case study, all of the interviewees expressed that they 
dreamed to have real contacts with new friend they had met on 
the Internet. However, they had never met them until they 
joined the clubs on CrazyVote. This is why the first outing 
planned by the club Saint could be responded by hundred users 
With club founders’ promotion, a great number of voluntary 
activities were held constantly by club members or even an 
ordinary website user. The way they interact with others and 
the way they think on the Internet show no differences either 
from those in their daily life. For instance, some of teenagers 
who enjoyed outdoor activities emphasized that they did not 
want to associate with who were only addicted to computer 
games, and some relatively tend to keep in the company with 
computer game lovers.  
In sum, a teenager’s activities to do with online friends, 
which include picnics, window-shopping, singing karaoke, or 
going to a night market, are very close to what friends will 
usually do in reality. 
3) Scope 
As what is mentioned in the previous sections, teenagers’ 
attitudes take a serious thought about “real distance – where 
they live” between them and their online friends, which 
indicates that the online social circle for teenagers in this study 
is not restricted in virtual context, and the purpose of it is put 
into action in reality. They were trying to become acquainted 
with those online friends who live in the same area, such as in 
the same city or a county.  
Furthermore, a very short distance is not an attractive feature 
to make friend, but sharing something in common and 
familiarity are. The investigation on the website functions of 
the map: where friends live reveals a specific result. The map is 
originally designed for teenagers to be aware who live around 
them, and it makes them share similar experiences and local 
topics to chat and to have fun. However, the study reveals that 
comparatively the teenagers were not very interested in making 
friends with those who live in the same neighborhood. It is very 
rare to make a contact with someone by way of using the map 
function. The way teenagers think over the distance of 
choosing online friends is the same as the way they think of 
making friends in reality. Distance does cause a problem for 
friends to see each other from time to time.  
To sum up, even though teenagers have several specific 
considerations for online environment, their online social 
behaviors and attitudes are still in accordance with what they 
are in their daily life. 
C. Flexible Communicating Ability 
In Taiwan most teenagers have plenty experiences of getting 
on the Internet, and their first time of accessing the Internet 
could be traced back to the time when they were in the primary 
school. That might give explanations about that club members 
in the study do have abilities to deal with varied types of 
communicating platforms and solve the problems they might 
face. It also reveals that teenagers equip themselves with 
abilities to access web-based media and adapt themselves to the 
diverse and complicated conditions on the Internet. 
1) Communicating platforms 
The choices and usages of different communicating 
platforms are based on the depth of acquaintance. In the study, 
synchronous communicating media as immediate messenger 
and chat-room are thought inappropriate to use between people 
who are unacquainted with each other. On the contrary, 
non-real-time platforms as a message board and a bulletin 
board are considered as places to concern with unfamiliar 
friends. In the study, teenagers explained their specific 
perceptions and usage occasions of the media, discussed in the 
following respectively: 
z Messenger: Messengers are the most common social 
communicating media for real-time chatting. 
Teenagers usually use them to communicate with close 
friends and tend to present more personal information 
there, such as one’s online status and emotions. 
z Personal web space: A personal web space is complete 
open to any visitor, including personal blogs, message 
board and online photo album, personal web. 
Teenagers apply it to introduce themselves, to share 
experiences, and invite others to come into their life.  
z Personal message board: Message board, sometimes a 
part of personal website, is the most important space to 
make new friends. Teenagers use the message board to 
welcome to an online stranger in the beginning, and 
then use it as a non-real-time text-based conversation 
function to have more interactions with other users. 
z Mail: The study explores that the teenagers rarely 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 54 2009 
 668
with different people, teenagers’ motivation of making friends 
is straight and simple. They are not conscious of the differences 
of social nuance between the virtual context and real world. 
However, teenagers tend to expose their personal information 
and lack the wariness of online fraud and potential dangerous 
existing intentions.  
V. DESIGN IMPLICATIONS 
The findings of research on teenagers’ club forming 
voluntarily indicate the inner values of the teenaged on-line 
users and their expectations of interpersonal relationships. To 
enhance social interactions for a certain group, the design 
implications for social software offer suggestions based on 
several issues in this paper, which are teenagers’ social 
considerations, communicating ability, friend making process 
and group social model. 
1) Focusing on a limited range of user types: According to 
teenagers’ concerns about age and similar lifestyle, 
members of an online community should be simple, clear, 
and restricted to well-defined target users. 
2) Linking together with user’s life context: The elements of 
design, including social interactions and features of 
appearance, have to be coherent with target users’ original 
life context. 
3) Participating in and perceiving: Developers and designers 
need to participate in certain online communities and to 
perceive the subtle variations of users’ behaviors and 
concerns, which may present valuable information for 
creative redesigning. 
4) Serving as a window for users to meet others: Most users 
already get used to communication by certain media. If the 
main purpose of social software is not designed to provide 
convenient communicating functions, it should be as 
simple as a window for users to meet others.  
5) Lowering the threshold in the beginning: The first step to 
meet a stranger and to say hello should be considerate and 
appropriate. The first contact should be designed more 
easily rather than leaving a message.  
6) Defining the friend making process: For the target users to 
make friend with others appropriately, developers and 
designers need to define a set of steps, which are noticeable 
and learnable.  
7) Building the group social model: Social contacts based on 
the group relations possess the sense of belonging and trust. 
Hence, a group social model could be developed in the 
design concept of social interactions.  
8) Making users’ relations visible: The design allows users to 
expand their social circles spontaneously through the 
mutual friends by visualizing users’ relations. 
As the suggestions reveal, applying the wholly 
understanding of target users to design concepts could make a 
design more acceptable, reliable and consistent with users’ 
original social context. For different groups and types, the 
design of computer-mediated communication and social 
interaction might take the same considerations into account to 
meet online users’ deep needs. 
VI. CONCLUSION 
This study shows that the boundary between on-line social 
interactions and actual relationships is blurred to the teenaged 
online users on CrazyVote. Their motivation of making friends 
on the Internet is straight and simple while extending the 
interpersonal relationships and getting in touch with other users. 
The on-line social behaviors reveal that they have developed 
their own process of making friends on account of their great 
adaptability in an online environment.  
The teenaged online users’ social contact is not restricted in 
virtual context. In the case of voluntarily club forming, 
teenagers tried to organize themselves with definite social 
purposes and tried to bring their online communities into reality 
to have face-to-face gatherings. The action of forming a club 
reflects that teenagers equip themselves with solid strategies to 
expand their social relationships in group activities and attract 
more members to join their clubs. In addition, the group-based 
social interactions are more appropriate and safer for teenagers 
while having a gathering, since it is approved to meet new 
friends through mutual friends and earn support from their 
family or friends in terms of Taiwanese culture and customs. 
With trust and a sense of belonging, their clubs are formed 
completely as a mini society. 
In conclusions, the case study of teenagers’ behaviors and 
attitudes presents their on-line social activities are tightly 
bound to the real life context with plenty cultural features. It is 
hope that this study might inspire more design concepts for 
social software in the future by understanding and drawing 
more attention of the contextual and cultural concerns in 
technology development. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
   Special thanks to the informants and those who 
participated in this research, shared their experiences, and 
offered excellent opinions on the design issues. We would like 
to acknowledge the valuable contributions and supports made 
by CrazyVote project owners and designers, particularly 
Jih-Liang Juang, Ho-Chin Yang, I-Yuan Ma, and the website 
administrator, Man-Ming Hsu.  
REFERENCES   
[1] B. Wellman and K. Hampton, “Living networked on and offline,” 
Contemporary Sociology, vol. 28, no. 6, pp. 648-654, Nov. 1999 
[2] J. Preece and D. Maloney-Krichmar, “Online communities: Focusing on 
sociability and usability,” in The human-computer interaction handbook: 
Fundamentals, evolving technologies and emerging applications, J. A. 
Jacko and A. Sears, Ed. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 2002, pp. 
596-620.  
[3] D. S. Ranson, E. S. Patterson, D. L. Kidwell, G. A. Renner, M. L. 
Matthews, J. M. Corban, E. Seculov, and C. S. Souhleris, “Rapid scout: 
Bridging the gulf between physical and virtual environments,” in Proc. 
the SIGCHI Conf. Human Factors in Computing Systems, New York: 
ACM, 1996, pp. 442-449. 
[4] H. Hutchinson, W. Mackay, B. Westerlund, B. Bederson, A. Druin, C. 
Plaisant, M. Beaudouin-Lafon, S. Conversy, H. Evans, H. Hansen, N. 
Roussel, and B. Eiderbäck, “Technology probes: Inspiring design for and 
