will miss recurrent myocardial infarction or cardiac complication in the early stage
after operation. An accurate, simple, and rapid noninvasive measurement is then
needed.
Recently, heart-type fatty acid binding protein (HFABP), a small hydrophilic
protein lying in the cytoplasm of both cardiac and skeletal muscle, function in uptake
and transport of long-chain fatty acid, has entered the clinicians’insight for the early
diagnostic value in acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Its release pattern is markedly
different from routine markers due to its small size and physical properties, with a very
early peak and a rapid decline thereafter. Preliminary studies suggested that HFABP is
superior to CK-MB or cardiac troponins in the early detection of ischemic myocardial
damage and is more specific and sensitive than myoglobin and CK-MB, and its total
amount of leakage reflects the extent of the extent of the damage. However, few studies
in the literature have prospectively investigated the diagnostic and prognostic values of
HFABP in cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) (Liu et al., 2005).
Recently, the methods for the characterization and quantification of HFABP are
ELISA, Western blotting, as well as flow cytometric and microscopic analysis
(Gutmann et al., 2005). The major quantitative detection method, ELISA, the
nonisotopic immunoassay, based on enzymes or fluorescein, has high sensitivity and is
fully automated on many platforms (Morgan et al., 1996). However, these methods
which must rely on the detection of labeled molecules are complicated and
time-consuming.
Immunosensors, which combine the inherent specificity of antigen-antibody
(Ag-Ab) reaction with high sensitivity of various physical transducers, have currently
gained attention in clinical diagnosis (Kanazawa and Gordon, 1985). This study
focused on a self-assembled surface plasmon resonance (SPR) apparatus. The concept
of surface plasmons (SP) is coming from the plasmon approach of Maxwel’s theory: 
the free electrons of a metal are treated as an electron liquid of high density (plasmon),
and density fluctuations happening on the surface of such a liquid are called plasmons,
SP (Raether, 1988). According to the Maxwel’s theory, SP can propagate along a 
metalic surface and have a spectrum of eigen frequencies ω related to the wavevector 
(κ) by a dispersion relation:
                κsp  = ωc-1 [ε1ε2/ (ε1+ ε2)]1/2
where c is the speed of light in vacuum, ω is frequency, ε1and ε2 are the dielectric
constant of the metal and of the medium in contact with it, respectively. Practically,
SPR is realized in the so-called Kretschmann configuration (Kretschmann and Raether,
1968), where thin metal layer is deposited on a glass substrate, and plasmons are
induced by p-polarized light undergoing total internal reflection (TIR) on the glass
surface. More precisely, they are excited by an evanescent wave associated with TIR
2. Experimental
2.1 Reagents
HFABP from human heart tissue (> 98% purity was tested by 10-20% gradient
SDS-PAGE) was purchased from Biodesign International, A Division of Meridian Life
Science, Inc., Saco, ME, U.S.A. Anti-HFABP MAb (5B5) (IgG1) from mouse ascites
(> 90% purity was tested by electrophoresis) was purchased from Biodesign
International, A Division of Meridian Life Science, Inc., Saco, ME, U.S.A. Protein A
from Staphylococcus aureus Cowan strain cell wall, cystamine dihydrochloride was
purchased from Sigma-Aldrich Chem. Co., St. Louis, U.S.A. Bovine serum albumin
(BSA) was obtained from Chemicon International, Inc., Temecula, CA. U.S.A. All
other chemicals used were of analytical grade.
2.2 Principle and apparatus of the sensor
The basic design of the sensing chip is shown diagrammatically in the previous
study (Chou, et al., 2004). Chromium and gold were successively deposited on a glass
slide to give layers of approximately 5 nm and 50 nm thick, respectively. Chromium
was deposited to obtain good adhesion between gold and glass slide (Yokoyama et al.,
1995) (The metallic films on glass slide were produced from the Institute of Applied
Mechanics of National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.). Subsequently, a
SAM was immobilized onto the gold surface. In this study, the immobilization of
MAbs onto the SAM produced in the final sensor. Then the self-assembled SPR
apparatus in the Kretschmann configuration (Kretschmann and Raether, 1968) was
used for monitoring the binding of specific Ags to the sensor surface. In the SPR
apparatus, a beam of light from a 5 mW He-Ne laser (random polarization, λ= 632.8 
nm) passed through a cube polarizer, which control the light intensity and produce
p-polarized light at the sample. A plane/convex glass lens was used to compensate and
ensure a parallel light beam into a right triangular prism. The laser beam passed
through the prism and was incident on the back surface of a gold film deposited onto a
glassslide. The prism and glass slide was made of BK7 glass (n=1.517 at λ= 632.8nm). 
The slide was sealed to the prism using optical adhesive (n=1.524, Norland optical
adhesive 65, Norland Products Inc., New Brunswick, N.J.). The prism was mounted on
a rotating stage. All optical components were obtained from Melles Griot, Irvine,
California. The CCD camera (Panasonic Color CCTV Camera, Model WV-CP240,
Matsushita Communication Industrial Co., Ltd., Yokohama, Japan) connected with a
computer containing the image treatment software (SpyGlass Transform 3.4) was used
for detecting the reflected light. The resonance condition was determined by recording
the reflected light intensity as a function of the incident angle. The SPR signal was
presented as an angle shift in millidegrees.
The entire apparatus was mounted on an optical bench in a darkroom and routinely
dried. The chip was then dipped into a 106 μg/L Ab solution for 1 hr, washed with
PBS, distilled water, and dried. The chip was blocked with a 0.1 M glycine-PBS
solution for 30 min, washed with PBS, distilled water, and dried. Finally, an angle shift
value was read. All procedures were performed at room temperature under atmospheric
pressure (Chou, et al., 2004).
2.4.5 Cystamine-Protein A method
The chip was treated with a 10 mM cystamine solution (10 mM cystamine, 50
mM phosphate buffer, 0.15 M NaCl, pH 7.0) for 1 hr, washed with distilled water and
dried. The chip was blocked with a 0.1 M glycine-PBS solution for 30 min, washed
with PBS, distilled water, and dried. Then5 μLof a protein A solution (1 mg protein A
in 1 mL of PBS, 0.1 M, pH 7.0 and 1 mL of acetate buffer, 0.1 M, pH 5.5) was added to
the gold surface of the chip for 30 min, washed with distilled water and dried. The chip
was then blocked with a 0.1 M glycine-PBS solution for 30 min, washed with PBS,
distilled water, and dried. Subsequently, 5 μL of a 1 mg/mL Ab solution was spread
over the gold surface. After drying, the chip was washed with PBS and distilled water,
dried and an angle shift value was read. All procedures were performed at room
temperature under atmospheric pressure.
3. Results and Discussion
3.1 Reusabilities of sensor coated with anti-human HFABP MAbs
In this experiment, anti-HFABP MAbs (5B5) was immobilized on the gold surface
of the chip using adsorption, protein A, cystamine, cystamine-glutaradehyde and
cystamine-protein A method. Three μl of 10 ng/mL HFABP in PBS was applied to the
gold surface for detection. The regeneration solution used was 0.1 M HCl buffer (pH
2.1) after each measurement. Fig. 1 shows that the reusability of chip adopting
cystamine-protein A method was better than those of the other above-mentioned
methods. The chip could continuously operate 10 cycles for 10 ng/mL of HFABP and
the relative angle shifts (the angle shifts measured were relative to the response at the
first time) were all above 95%. Generally, the formation of the stable monolayer is
based on the strong adsorption of disulfides (R-S-S-R), sulfides (R-S-R), and thiol
(R-SH) on a metal (particularly gold) surface. In this method, disulfide bond of
cystamine (2, 2’-dithiobisethanamine, C4H12N2S2) is broken and strongly adsorbed on
the gold surface. In this study, if the amino and sulfur-containing molecules, cystamine,
adsorbed on the gold surface, the amino groups of cystamine could easily bind to the
carboxyl groups in the IgG molecule by the interaction presumably electrostatic,
hydrogen bonding etc., not bind to the amino groups of the Ag binding sites in the IgG
molecule. The Abs on the sensor surface were random, partly multi-layers and could
not supply a good orientation to binding of Ag when using adsorption, protein A,
cystamine, cystamine-glutaraldehyde method. For the construction of a well-defined
References
Chou, S. F., Hsu, W. L., Hwang, J. M., Chen, C. Y., 2004, Development of an
immunosensor for human ferritin, a nonspecific tumor marker, based on surface
plasmon resonance, Biosensors and Bioelectronics 19, 999-1005.
Cummins, B., Cummins, P., Auckland, M. I., 1987. Cardiac specific troponin-I
radioimmunoassay in the diagnosis of acute myocardial infraction, Am. Heart J.
113, 1333-1344.
Harlow, E., Lane, D., 1999. Using antibodies: a laboratory manual. Cold Spring Harbor,
NY: Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 74-76.
Kanazawa, K.K., Gordon, J.G., 1985. Frequency of a quartz microbalance in contact
with liquid. Anal. Chem. 57, 1770.
Kretschmann. E., Raether, H., 1968. Z. Naturforsch. A 23, 2135.
Lee, W., Lee, D.-B., Oh, B.-K., Lee, W.-H., Choi, J.-W., 2004. Nanoscale fabrication of
protein A on self-assembled monolayer and its application to surface plasmon
resonance immunosensor. Enzyme and Microbial Technology 35, 678-682.
Liu, H., Dong, G. H., Xu, B., Shen, Y., Jing, H., 2005. Heart fatty acid binding protein
in the rapid evaluation of myocardial damage following valve replacement surgery.
Climica Chimica Acta 356, 147-153.
Morgan, C.L., Newman, D.J., Price, C.P., 1996. Immunosensors: technology and
opportunities in laboratory medicine. Clinical Chemistry 42(2), 193-209.
Nakanishi, K., Karube, I., Hiroshi, S., Uchida, A., Ishida, Y., 1996. Anal. Chim. Acta
325, 73.
Raether, H., 1988. Surface Plasmons. Springler-Verlag, Berlin.
Storri, S., Santoni, T., Minunni, M., Mascini, M., 1998. Surface modification for the
development of piezoimmunosensors. Biosensors and Bioelectronics 13(3-4),
347-357.
Wink, Th., van Zuilen, S.J., Bult, A., van Bennekom, W.P., 1997. Self-assembled
monolayers for biosensors. The Analyst 122, 43-50.
Yokoyama, K., 1995. Highly sensitive quartz-crystal immunosensors for multisample
detection of herbicides. Anal. Chim. Acta 304, 139-145.
Times
2 4 6 8 10 12
R
el
at
iv
e
an
gl
e
sh
ift
(%
)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Cystamine-protein A method
Adsorption method
Protein A method
Cystamine method
Cystamine-glutaraldehyde method
Fig.1 of Chou, S-F
Internal angles (degrees)
26 28 30 32 34 36 38
R
ef
le
ct
iv
ity
(%
)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
5B5(IgG1)
Gold+Cystamine
Protein A
Fig.3 of Chou, S-F
