  
數位內容創新與創業之需求鏈管理知識實體論 
中文摘要 
數位內容是提供新一波全球化網路經濟成長之主要動力。在技術與市場面之大幅
與多樣之進展之趨勢下，有關需求面之創造與管理以提升技術創新與創業之研究格外
受到重視。創新與創業可被視為是因應外在環境變化所進行之組織領域之擴充及知識
實體轉化活動。本研究之目的在發展需求鏈知識本體論以辨識市場需求之驅動因子及
價值創造之機制，藉以達到多元需求與價值創造的目的。過去對於跨組織與國際創業
的相關研究，普遍著重於製造業，對知識服務業及跨產業間之比較研究顯少著墨。因
此，本研究以資訊通訊為基礎之數位內容產業的個案中，比較與探討如何在市場高度
不確定性中，運用需求鏈知識實體論，辨識市場需求驅動因子構建組織創新以配合市
場機會，進而衍生組織與營運模式創新，創造其高度多元價值。 
本研究藉由建立行動數位內容產業開放式創新知識架構，提供需求面之知識資產
創造過程並洞察實體經驗累積方式，以檢驗企業跨組織網路間呈現多元之知識實體運
作，以多樣化動態組合檢視需求知識移轉與聚合效應為其帶來不同以往新興之市場機
會與價值創造。因此，本研究再藉由動態知識架構比較創新機會、驅動力、創業體制
與創新組合的演化過程，提出企業以跨組織之需求面知識重組與創造的主要理論與實
務意涵。 
關鍵詞：需求鏈管理、組織知識實體論、數位內容、協同創新、國際創業精神 
  3
INTRODUCTION 
Digital content, including those in the mobile settings (mainly the music and game) 
and those on the wideband platform (including the media, culture, medical, 
education, and public services) has been a major driver of growth for the knowledge 
economy. With the general trends toward a great variety of technology and global 
market settings, the need for active research on the demand creation and 
management for active innovative and entrepreneurial development has gain 
substantial attention. 
Based on our previous studies of systems of innovation and entrepreneurship in 
Taiwan (Hung, Liu and Chu, 2003, Liu, et al, 2004, Liu, et al 2005, Chu and Wu, 
2005; Hung and Chu, 2005, Chu and Hsu, 2006), we argue that value creation 
arises from the synthesis of entrepreneurial actions and effects of market 
environment. Yet many start-ups, and established firms alike, encounter the 
problems in assessing and managing market demand (Childerhouse, et al, 2002; 
Heikkila, 2002; Meridith, 2006.) As such, we propose that the embedded 
organization knowledge provides the essence for the new ideas and aids in the 
recognition of market value and exploitation of marketing opportunities. 
The underlying basis of the research is on the collaborative integration of service 
and relationships of the organization network with the intellectual capital and 
competence for innovative opportunity creation (Mckelvery, 2003; Dew, et al 2004; 
Jones and Dimitratos, 2004; Chu and Hsu, 2006).  The core problem facing the 
innovator and entrepreneurs in the digital content industries is the assessment of 
the market demand and value. The study extend the existing literature by 
highlighting the importance of the mutual understanding of demand chain creation 
and management (Mckelvey, 2004.) to address the changes along with the 
underlying entrepreneurial actions in providing value-added services. In addition, 
the important practical findings in this project can contribute to related industrial 
firms engaging in the cross-border entrepreneurial process of value creation through 
delivery of the content and services enabled by the collaborative innovation and 
  5
 
Figure 1.  A model of the relationships among dispersed intellectual capital, demand 
chain ontology and market value creation opportunities. 
Demand Management and Value Creation from Collaborative Innovation 
The initiative for market value creation can be examined with classification of 
innovation proposed by Tidd, et al. (1997) & Damanpour and Evan (1984), namely, 
product innovation and administrative innovation. This differentiation reveals the links 
to the two distinct types of market values: value of services and value of relationships 
(Lindgreen and Wynstra, 2005.) The authors of several service marketing literature 
consistently emphasize that services are produced in interactive processes, and there 
have been few investigations into the extent and type of interactive processes.  
In digital content industries, there is increasing evidence of collaboration and 
partnerships in the marketplace, resulting from the firms to externalize their business 
activities. This is due to the knowledge-intensive, multiple-technology platform-based, 
and demand heterogeneity nature of the business. (Kunin, 2005, OECD, 2006.) In 
such an environment, value creation can extend and cover a spectrum of several 
  7
OBJECTIVE 
This project aimed to develop the demand chain ontology for identifying market 
demand drivers and mechanisms that impact the value creation process. Based on a 
series of cross-disciplinary case studies of the information and communication 
technology (ICT) enabled digital content industries, we explored the potential and 
problem solving mechanism of an ontology-based support system in the dynamic 
digital content creation and delivery process with a coordinated innovation and 
entrepreneurial activities.  
Previous demand management studies have largely been characterized as static, 
cross-sectional, production sector-oriented and a lack of service sector and/or 
comparative research. As a result, the characteristics related to the emerging digital 
content service sectors, the cross-sector comparisons have largely been unexplored. 
Prior empirical work in the demand versus supply tradition stressed mostly on the 
purposive sampling also means that the results are difficult to generalize. There is a 
major gap in providing rich perspective from multiple informants involved in various 
innovation and entrepreneurial processes.   
This research expanded on the current study both in the methodology and the scope 
of the study by extending the model and approach to cross-border cases and 
cross-industry sector study, to expose to different industrial contexts (Andersson, 
2004.) The sectors studied include representative cases in: 1) IC design, manufacture, 
and logistic services; and 2) digital content design, production, and delivery services. 
Figure 2 presents the ontology structure for a sample case involving the delivering the 
IC design services. 
Through the comparative case studies of the above four digital content service sectors, 
this project clarified the transformation process of demand management and value 
creation, supported by the richness of the organizational ontological elements. Based 
on the theoretical and empirical findings, the implications will then be drawn out for 
strategic management of market demand knowledge and for assessing business 
  9
of collaboration using demand chain ontology as a guide, which illustrates various 
modes of services, from digitally mastering, mediating, outsourcing, and delivering 
services. This framework categorizes the forms of the collaborative knowledge 
services from face-to-face to fully cross-border digital delivery (time independent, 
different place and different organization, that is, geographically distributed 
electronically mediated services across organization network and boundary. Based on 
this framework, this research illustrated the drivers, mechanisms, the potential 
opportunities, and impacts for collaborative content creating and delivery services. 
METHOD 
We choose four digital content service sectors for case study to explore the 
relationship among organizational network, demand ontology and value creation. The 
data collection, data analysis, and conceptualization are conducted iteratively in the 
process of investigation.  We adopt the principle of iterative of Glaser and Strauss 
(1967) in the process of data collection.  
For data sources, we use multiple sources of evidence suggested by Yin (1994). First, 
we collect the secondary data through trade study reports, webs and current press 
information to preliminarily gather the historical events in the industry. Second, we use 
focused interviews (Merton et al., 1990) and other means of correspondence to fill the 
gaps of historical events in the selected knowledge service firms to collect the set of 
data on the representative firms in the four digital content service sectors – music, 
game, technical marketing information services, and IC design services, each 
encompassing the design, production and delivery activities. 
For data analysis, we establish and illustrate the chronological development process 
of events of the firms in order to show the causal relationship among intellectual 
capital, organizational knowledge, and value creation opportunities (see Figure 1). The 
study adopts qualitative research using grounded theory (Glaser and Strauss, 1967) to 
explore the key factors contributing to opportunity recognition and exploitation. We 
draw on this method because studies through qualitative research can address many 
  11
the subject demand knowledge domain taxonomy (Malucelli, et al, 2006; Meredith, 
2006) as well as relationships taxonomy. The domain taxonomy account for market 
demand drivers such as market environmental determinants, derived preference on 
demands, and temporal parameters.  The relationships taxonomy support interaction 
protocol to facilitate the ontology-based solution integration to deal with the network 
dynamics and operational uncertainties which are typical in the demand management 
in emerging industries of digital content services. A sample framework of the ontology 
conceptualization process is shown in Figure 3. 
 
Figure 3. A generic framework of ontology conceptualization. 
For example, the derivation for the demand chain of game service objects can be 
guided by the game content domain relation ontology which is derived from the 
knowledge of game creation and delivery relation model in combination with the 
commitments from the game content resources providers. The framework provide a 
dynamic recombination of dispersed intellectual/social capital on the digital content 
value network.   
  13
motivating the action of an initiative would enhance the opportunities and value 
created. The knowledge for the levels of trust needed in the intention, capability, 
reliability, and openness in the other parties plays a key role in the new venture 
initiatives. This effect is particularly prominent among the emerging DC firms’ 
partner relationships in enacting innovation network. 
Other findings pertain to the combination of intangible assets for opportunity 
creation involve the provision of human intellect, structural routines, and network of 
relationships that can expedite demand articulation. Many of the mechanisms that 
advance the demand chain process reside in the continuously evolving cycles of 
developing pertinent organizational knowledge such as the level of trust in 
expressing demand preference. Thus the institutional settings for the creative 
environment nurturing the industry are conducive to the building up of the social 
capital important to recognizing and exploiting the market opportunities. For 
example, in the dynamic social network environment the DC industry facing the 
types of human team, venture operation routines, and the network relationships 
would affect the creation of new opportunities.  
This research also examines the content, governance and structure of firms’ 
network relationship with regard to network-based view of venture. It confirms, as 
was observed in network-based research in entrepreneurship, that dense networks 
can reinforce trust building, strong ties are predictive of early entrepreneurial activity 
and early linkages and legitimating activities affect persistence of entrepreneurial 
activity (Carayannis and Von Zedtwitz, 2005; Hoang and Antoncic, 2003). It appears 
that the diversity of social network and experience is conducive to the initiatives 
covering the demand articulation activities. The boundary spanning role of the 
actors in the sample firms link and coordinate an organization with key elements in 
the external network (Scott, 1995; Au and Fukuda, 2002; Daft, 2004.) Specifically, 
relationally diverse social networks increase the spanning of demand network of DC 
firms that conver the local and cross-border DC delivery services. 
CONCLUSIONS 
  15
Christensen, J.F. Olesen, M.H., and Kjaer, J.S. The Industrial Dynamics of Open 
Innovation – Evidence from the Transformation of Consumer Electronics, 
Research Policy, 34 (2005) pp. 1533-1549. 
Chu, Y. and Chien, C. (2005) Constructing Collaborative Distributed Objects Sharing 
on the Semantic Web, The 9th World Multi-Conference on Systemics, Cybernetics 
and Informatics (WMSCI 2005) , Orlando, FL, July. 
Chu, Y. and Hsu, W. 2006 Organization Ontology for Innovation and Entrepreneurship 
for Cross-border Knowledge Services in the Globalizing IC Design Industries, 
PICMET (Portland International Conference on Management of Engineering and 
Technology.)  
Chu, Y. and Wu, D. 2005. Building Organizational Ontology to Identify Technology 
Entrepreneurial Opportunities, Proceedings of 14th International Conference on 
Management of Technology. 
Daft, R.L. 2004 Organization theory and Design, Mason, OH: South-Western. 
Damanpour, F. and Evan, W. M. 1984. Organizational innovation and performance: 
The problem of organizational lag. Administrative Science Quarterly, 29: 392-409. 
Dew, N. Velamuri, S.R. and Venkataraman, S. 2004. Dispersed Knowledge and an 
Entrepreneurial Theory of the Firm, Journal of Business Venturing, 19(2004) pp. 
659-679. 
Glaser, B. G. and Strauss, A. L. 1967. The Discovery of Grounded Theory. Chicago, IL: 
Aldine. 
Grant, R.M., 1996. ‘Toward a Knowledge-based Theory of Firms,’ Strategic 
Management Journal, 17(2), pp. 109-123. 
Guarino, N. and Welty, C. 2002 Evaluating Ontological Decisions with OntoClean, 
ACM Special Issue on Ontology Applications and Design. 45(2) pp. 61-65 
Heikkila, J. 2002. ‘From Supply Chain to Demand Chain Management,’ Journal of 
  17
OECD 2006. The Future Digital Economy: Digital Content Creation, Distribution and 
Access, OECD Report. 
OECD 2006. Digital Broadband Content: Digital Content Strategies and Policies, 
OECD Report. 
Rezende, J.L. et al 2005. Peer-to-Peer Collaborative Integration of Dynamic 
Ontologies, 9th international Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative 
Work, ACM. 
Tidd, Bessant, and Pavitt 1997. Managing innovation: Integrating technological and 
organizational change. New York: John Wiley & Sons. 
Williams, T., Maull, R. and Ellis, B. 2002. Demand Chain Management Theory, Journal 
of Operations Management, Vol. 20, pp. 691-706. 
Williamson, O.E. 1996. The Mechanisms of Governance. Oxford University Press, 
Oxford. 
Yin, R. K. 1994. Case Study Research: Design and Methods, 2nd Ed. London, CA: 
Sage.
  19
Papers Generated: 
Chu, Y. and Cheng, Y., (2007) Demand Chain Management Ontology for 
Innovation in Integrated Circuit Design and Manufacture Services, World 
Multi-Conference on Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics (WMSCI). 
Hung, S.F., Kao, H.P. and Chu, Y. (2008) An Empirical Study on Knowledge 
Integration, Technology Innovation and Experimental Practice, Expert Systems 
with Applications. 
Chu, Y. and Lee, P. (2008) Web-based Knowledge Sharing and Collaborative 
Learning: Ontology for Digital Content and Demand Management, NCPEA 
Conference, San Diego, July.  
 
 
 
 
 C:\Users\ETM\Documents\_Trip0708\NSC 出國報告表 Chu082008_.doc 
 
了論文發表，大會並安排了各項研討與交流活動，包括演講及座談。個人參
與「教育技術創新」議題系列各場次座談。除提出研究小組所發展之數位知
識學習本體論之發展、運用模式，並在會場與與會學者專家交流其他各篇論文提
出之重點議題，探討之領域涵蓋數位內容知識之創新與分享、知識表達方式、運作
與規則之建立等。在會中並與研討會之主席暨創辦人及會議主持人等探討新進
數位知識學習等研究領域之發展。在討論當中均認為學習之創新與跨領域合
作是一個以議題導向、跨組織間作快速整合與發展的學術領域。目前此一領
域正結合兩方面的研究動力：一方面由知識、科技與智慧資產之創造探討發
展及應用；另一方面是跨邊界之互補性、雙贏之創意活動及教育研究和商業
資源結合動員進行之新興研究領域。此一結合趨勢將能提升此學術領域對未
來的科技、產業及社會的進展上的貢獻及影響力。 
二、與會心得 
於創新管理知識本體論議題之研究上，筆者參加之場次分別探討學習管理新知
識之發掘過程之知識創新、知識移轉機制與作法。與會學者對於發展體系之系統特
徵及有效的參與過程所提出的論點與實證研究結果作整體性之探討。筆者研究團隊
提出知識服務業知識產出、利用動態模式之研究結果亦在會場獲得進一步之討論與
交流。會中有北美與會者表達有興趣探索作進一步分析討論及研究之可能性。 
由此觀點來看這次大會主題的一再提到整個領域的跨組織邊界之知識技術與
組織管理體制整合的性質。再由這次與會論文安排的架構觀之，傳統上技術知識與
創新組織體制之結合運用似已愈來愈成熟，或許將來可能演進為一個整體的領域，
得以結合學術資源與成果以發揮其影響力。 
三、考察參觀活動 (無) 
四、建議 
