 2
properties of Zinc oxide nanorods after H2 plasma treatments were systematically 
investigated. The obtained results implied that both nitrogen and hydrogen ion can diffuse into 
nanostructures to form chemical bonds with zinc and oxygen ions through the paths of defects. 
The ratio of the intensity of Ultraviolet (UV) emission (IUV) to that of deep level emission 
(IDLE) can be enhanced as 140 times as those of original ones. In addition, a novel process 
was developed to fabricate the ZnO-coated carbon nanotube composites via plasma and 
surface modification. The electrical transport of individual ZnO nanorods and ZnO-coated 
single-walled carbon nanotubes composite will be studied. The results of Raman analysis 
reveals the surface state in carbon nanotubes would be changed by react with TEO-Zn 
molecule. Moreover, HRTEM with EDS also demonstrate that ZnO could really be coated on 
SWNTs. On transport measurements point to the electrons in SWNTs could be compensated 
by holes carrier attributed to ZnO layer with UV excitation. Furthermore, this continuous 
coating of one dimensional material supplies this novel nanocomposite to be used for 
multifunctional nanodevices. In addition to ZnO-SWNTs composite, the electrical transport 
property of individual ZnO nanorod presents the excellent photoresponse behavior, which 
shows great potential for application in optical switch device. 
 
Keywords: ZnO nanorods；Plasma treatments；Carbon nanotubes ; Electrical transport ；
Optoelectronic properties ；Thermal annealing；Microstructure evolution 
 
I. Introduction 
Semiconductor nanoparticles have been widely investigated from fundamental and applied 
research viewpoints, owing to their potential in photocatalysis, solar energy conversion, and 
optoelectronic applications [1-3]. The assembly of isotropic nanoparticles onto 
one-dimensional architecture represents an important step towards the integration of 
nanoparticles into nanodevices [14]. Particularly, nanoparticles can be assembled on 1D 
nanostructure of a different material to form novel and interesting composite nanomaterial 
system [5]. Single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs), due to their excellent structural and 
electronic properties, is the one of the most potential 1D nanostructures in the past few years 
[6,7]. To achieve multifunctional nanodevices, many research groups have developed several 
methods to coat metal and semiconductor nanoparticles, such as Au, Ag, SnO2, TiO2, SiO2, 
and Al2O3, on carbon nanotubes (CNTs) [8-13]. Moreover, some of coated CNT composite 
system have been demonstrated that their original physical properties would be improved 
 4
defects on side-walls, both of which are capable of being terminated by carboxyl and 
hydroxyl groups in the presence of oxidizing acid. The schematic representation for the 
fabrication of SWNTs and ZnO nanocomposite is shown in Figure 1. After oxidizing 
treatment, the SWNTs were dispersed into 20 mL aqueous solution; then the solution 
containing SWNTs was heat to 95oC with intense ultrasonic waves. And then, 0.005 mol/L 
zinc acetate and 1.5 mol/L triethanolamine (TEOH) were dropped smoothly into the SWNTs 
aqueous solution. In typical experiment, the system was continuously stirred with ultrasonic 
waves for 2 h at 95oC. The thickness of the coating can be adjusted by changing the reaction 
time and the concentration of zinc acetate. For the transport measurement, individual SWNT 
and SWNT@ZnO were positioned on top to bridge two noble metal electrodes (Au-Pd), 
which acts as the source and drain. The electrodes were deposited on top of a SiO2 layer on a 
silicon substrate, and the silicon was used as the gate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  The schematic representation for the fabrication of SWNTs and ZnO composite. 
 
3. Results and discussion 
3.1 Hydrogen-plasma ZnO nanorods  
Numerous prior investigations have reported that hydrogen ions not only could be more easily 
diffused into ZnO in the plasma-treated process and combine with other defects to form a 
shallow donor in ZnO, but also can increase the free electron concentration of ZnO to 
improve conductivity and strongly passivate the deep level emission to enhance the band edge 
luminescence. The cross-sectional SEM image in Figure 2(a) demonstrates that the highly 
oriented ZnO nanorods with a uniform length of 500-520 nm are perpendicularly grown to the 
 6
treatment, all the ZnO nanorods show much better PL property than that of non-plasma 
sample and the deep level emission was almost covered by the background signal in all 
plasma-treated samples. It was believed that the native defects or impurities contributing to 
visible transition can be passivated by H2 plasma treatment, because the hydrogen atoms can 
be situated in various lattices positions and the most presumably stable position is the H 
configured at Zn-O bond center, which acts as a shallow donor. Similar observations for the 
passivation of hydrogen plasma treatment on the visible emission of ZnO are also reported. 
Figure 3(b) illustrates the ratio of peak intensity of Ultraviolet (UV) emission (IUV) to that of 
deep level emission (IDLE). The value of the relative PL ratio increases with the increase of 
plasma treatment duration up to 300 sec in all the samples and then becomes slightly 
decreased. A higher PL ratio implies that the plasma-treated ZnO nanorods exhibit higher 
optical quality. Moreover, it can be clearly observed that the crystal morphology of vertically 
well-aligned ZnO nanorods seems not to be affected by a lengthy plasma treatment even at 
900 sec as revealed by the SEM images in the set of Figure 2(b).  
 
 
 
Figure 2: (a) PL spectra and (b) IUV/IDEL of ZnO nanorods with and without hydrogen 
plasma treatment at room temperature. The inset image of (b) shows the FESEM surface 
morphology of ZnO nanorods with hydrogen plasma treatment of t =900 sec. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: (a) PL spectra and (b) IUV/IDEL of ZnO nanorods with and without hydrogen plasma 
treatment at room temperature. The inset image of (b) shows the FESEM surface morphology 
of ZnO nanorods with hydrogen plasma treatment of t =900 sec. 
 
Figure 4 shows the XPS core level spectra taken from the ZnO nanorods surface after the 
plasma treatment in H2. As compared with the non-plasma sample, Figure 4 (a) illustrates 
that the peak shift of 0.2-0.3 eV toward higher binding energies was observed in Zn 2p 
spectrum for H2 plasma-treated ZnO nanorods. This peak shift indicates the reduction of the 
surface band bending and this may be related to the doping or incorporation of H ions into 
ZnO nanorods. Thus, the H2 plasma treatment seems to partially recover or reduce surface 
defects, leading to the decrease of densities of surface states on ZnO nanorods. However, as 
the ZnO nanorods were treated with H2-plasma duration more than 300 sec, the Zn 2p peak is 
shifted toward a higher binding energy around 0.5-0.8 eV. This phenomenon reveals that the 
surface band bending of ZnO nanorods was slightly changed by H2 plasma treatment. 
 8
understand the importance of hydrogen plasma treatment on the passivation effects of ZnO 
nanorods, the H2-plasma samples were further annealed at various temperatures in nitrogen 
atmosphere. (Note: the post-annealed specimen were grown on Si substrate and then treated 
by hydrogen plasma at the same conditions as that grown on the flexible substrates.) It was 
found that the relative PL ratio would decrease drastically while the samples were annealed 
more than 400oC, as shown in Figure 5. Furthermore, the PL spectrum of the post-annealed 
ZnO nanorods was almost restored to that of original ZnO nanorods (ZnO nanorods without 
H2 plasma treated). This implies that surface absorption and doping effects of hydrogen ions 
on ZnO nanorods can be recovered by thermal annealing process. Therefore, it can be 
concluded that both defect passivation and modification of surface state on hydrogen-plasma 
ZnO nanorods are responsible for the enhanced optical properties.  
Figure 5: IUV/IDEL of ZnO nanorods (grown on ZnO film/ Si substrate) with hydrogen-plasma 
for 300 sec and then annealed at 400, and 600oC (PA@400 and PA@600 oC). The 
corresponding PL spectra of ZnO nanorods were shown in the inset. 
 
Figure 6 shows the I-V curve for a homojunction of n-type ZnO nanorods (treated by H2 
plasma duration of 900 sec) on n-type ZnO films. The structure of In metal/ZnO 
nanorods/ZnO films/In metal/PC substrate was used for the I-V measurement of ZnO 
nanorods. It was found that the non-plasma ZnO nanorods present a higher resistivity about 
hundreds of MΩ, which is about 2 orders of magnitude larger than that reported in the 
literature for the naked single ZnO nanowire (above 3.5 MΩ). In contrast, when the ZnO 
nanorods undergo hydrogen plasma treatment over than 300 sec, the resistivity of ZnO 
nanorods decrease by typically 5-6 orders of magnitude. It suggests that hydrogen plasma can 
efficiently raise the free electron concentration and increase the conductivity of ZnO nanorods. 
The above results reveal that with the H2–plasma treatment on ZnO nanorods, both optical 
and electrical properties could be substantially improved and increased. This implies that 
incorporating hydrogen into ZnO nanorods not only passivates the native  
 10
Here, it was found that the same area reveals linear features formed at the positions of 
SWNTs after the chip was burned. The insert image shows that surface morphology of coating 
SWNTs after 500oC heating in air. We have observed some crystalline structure at the same 
region of SWNTs, and we proposed this crystalline behavior is due to the higher heating 
temperature transfer amorphous ZnO layer to poly-crystalline ZnO.  
The ZnO coating studies have been complemented by micro Raman spectroscopy on the 
individual SWNTs and bucky-paper after coating process, as shown in Figure 8. The main 
features in the Raman spectra of SWNTs are the radial breathing mode (RBM) which is in the 
frequency range up to 200 cm-1, G-line around 1600 cm-1 from the tangential vibrations of the 
carbon atoms, and the D-line at 1280 cm-1. The intensity of the D-line is related to the amount 
of sp3 defects on carbon nanotubes. Therefore, we suggested that the intensity of D-line 
increased is due to SWNTs were treated with nitric acid to create surface function group. 
Moreover, we found the Raman spectrum of SWNT@ZnO shows slow decrease and slight 
shift in the RBM intensity in individual nanotubes. In addition, it was found all Raman signals 
shifted toward low frequency about 2-5 cm-1, in the Raman spectra of SWNT@ZnO 
bucky-paper materials, RBM peak especially (~5 cm-1). We proposed the signals decrease was 
related to possible scattering and these peaks shift was contributed by the chemical interaction 
between carbon atom and TEOH-Zn, respectively. In order to demonstrate our contention, we 
evaporated 20 nm silicon monoxides to cover the individual SWNTs on chip and than 
measured by Raman spectroscopy. A similar quenching of the Raman signals occurs if a thick 
layer covered around SWNTs. However, within this SWNTs-SiOx experiment, no shift in the 
Raman frequencies was observable. It means that only van der waal interaction between 
silicon monoxide and SWNTs, therefore, only scattering effect could be detected., HR-TEM 
of the ZnO nanorods annealed at 1000oC in N2 reveals that the ZnO nanorods were shortened 
to 300-400 nm, and became partially joined to their neighbors. The split diffraction spots in 
the central region of the SAED pattern suggest that the merged ZnO nanorods are not 
perfectly aligned in either the a (or b) and c directions, as presented in the inset of Fig. 8(b). 
Moreover, HR-TEM images of the ZnO nanorods in Fig. 8(c) demonstrate that partial 
amorphous was formed in the single-crystal ZnO nanorod. In addition, several lattice fringes 
(marked with arrows) appear in the edge of the ZnO nanorod in Fig. 8(d). Furthermore, 
according to X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis (not show here), the atomic 
ratio of O to Zn was approximately to 0.9 for the nanorods and the single of O2- ions in the 
oxygen-deficient regions were almost covered by the background signal, this indicating these 
amorphous regions appeared to contain some structural defects. The primary defect type in 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9  (a) and (b) show the low magnification TEM images of SWNT@ZnO. The high 
magnification TEM image with EDS elements mapping were shown in (c) and (d).  
 
Electrical transport in individual core-shell nanotube  
For the electrical transport measurement, the coating SWNTs were deposited on a 
degenerately doped silicon substrate with a thermally grown SiO2 layer. Afterward Au/Pd 
electrodes were applied in two probe configuration by standard e-beam lithography. In our 
transport studies on SWNTs@ZnO, we have measured many individual tubes with ultraviolet 
(UV) light on them at room temperature. Figure 10(a) presents a set of Isd-Vg curves 
obtained from a typical device made by pristine SWNTs and these pristine SWNTs showed 
p-type FET characteristics. During the measurement of Isd, while we shined the UV light on 
the device, the current would slight decrease from 5x10-8 to 3x10-8 A. This phenomenon was 
called “photoinduced conductivity” and has been discussed by two research groups [20,21]. 
According to former articles, the photoinduced conductivity in the pristine SWNTs maybe due 
to (i) hot electrons attach to adsorbed molecules to induce desorption or (ii) contact electrodes 
were oxidized to change the barrier between electrode and SWNTs by UV light. In the (i) case, 
it should be difficult observed on metallic nanotubes because of large Isd current could not 
easy compensate by photoinduced effect. Additionally, if photoinduced conductivity was from 
O 
Zn 
 14
Ultraviolet photoresponse of single ZnO nanorod 
The typical length of the resulting nanowires was 1 µm, with typical diameters in the 
range of 30–50 nm. Selected-area diffraction patterns showed the nanorods to be single 
crystal. They were released from the substrate and then transferred to SiO2 coated metallic Si 
substrates. E-beam lithography was used to pattern sputtered Pd-Au electrodes contacting 
both ends of a single nanorod. The separation of the electrodes was 500 nm. Atomic force 
microscopy (AFM) of the completed device is shown in Figure 11. Au wires were bonded to 
the contact pad for current voltage (I–V) measurements performed at 25 oC in air. In some 
cases, the nanorods were illuminated with above band gap light mixed with 254 or 366 nm 
from Hg lamp. Figure 12 shows the I–V characteristics of the nanorod in the dark. The 
conductivity is nearly non-changed as applying voltage, even at high bias. It suggests that 
terrible ohmic contacts were formed between the nanorod and electrodes. However, in 
photoresponse measurement, the conductivity is greatly increased during the illumination. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11  AFM image of ZnO nanorod device 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12  I–V characteristics of the ZnO nanorod in the dark 
 16
Conclusion 
The photoluminescence spectra indicate that the optical quality of the ZnO nanorods can 
be much improved by H2 plasma treatment as evidenced by the remarkable increase in the 
ultraviolet emission intensity. The I-V results suggest that n-type ZnO nanorods with a higher 
conductivity can be obtained by combining the chemical solution process with hydrogen 
plasma treatment. In addition, we have demonstrated a flexible method to coat SWNTs in 
solution. The results of Raman analysis presents the surface state in carbon nanotubes would 
be changed by react with TEO-Zn molecule. On transport measurements point to the electrons 
in SWNTs could be compensated by holes carrier attributed to ZnO layer with UV excitation. 
Furthermore, this continuous coating of one dimensional material supplies a future for 
multifunctional nanodevices. In addition to ZnO-SWNTs composite, the electrical transport 
property of individual ZnO nanorod presents the excellent photoresponse behavior. It has 
great potential for application in optical switch device. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acknowledgments 
This work was financially supported by the National Science Council of the Republic of 
China, Taiwan under Contract No. NSC95-2221-E-009-126-. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1
赴國外研究心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 低溫液相成長之氧化物奈米結構的電漿氣氛掺雜與光電性質研究 
計畫名稱 NSC-95-2221-E-009-126 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳三元 教授/ 國立交通大學材料科學與工程學系 
出國時間地點 2007/6/3~ 2007/6/7 
國外研究機構 2007年第二屆國際奈米科學與技術會議 
 
2007年第二屆國際奈米科學與技術會議 
2nd  International Conference on Nanoscience and Technology 
陳三元  教授 
國立交通大材料科學與工程學系所 
 
(一) 參加會議過程： 
本人於 2007年 6月 3日早上(AM 9:00) 從桃園國際中正機場搭乘長榮航空客機
經澳門國際機場，然後再轉機前往中國大陸北京(Beijing)，到北京時已經是下
午，覺得蠻好的，接著就住進旅館，並立即前往會場並辦理報到註冊手續。然
後就是一系列密集又緊湊的三天研討會，於 6 月 6 日晚上才結束研討會，接著
隔天(6月 7日)又前往北京大學參觀並做學術交流與 School of Science Professor 
Cong教授討論一些相關的研究，然後再從北京機場搭機，經香港國際機場轉機，
然後再搭乘長榮航空客機，飛回臺灣桃園國際中正機場，此時已經是下午 5:30，
到家之後又要忙著到學校上課，因此覺得相當的累，但是精神還算不錯。在此
 3
此次研討會所發表論文的範圍，共有 9 個主題，其內容包括 Nanowires and 
Nanotubes, Nanoparticles and Quantum Dots, Nanomaterials and Applications, 
Self-assembly and Growth on Surface, Nanooptics and Nanophotonics, 
Nanoelectronics and NEMS, Nanobiology and Nanomedicine, Computation and 
Modeling, Nanometrology，可見其安排的內容非常豐富。本人亦發相當多的時
間，在聆聽這些方面相關的研究論文發表，吸收一些別人的研究心得與資訊，
以期為未來的研究方向，做進一步的規劃及考量。而此次筆者所發表的論文 ” 
Stimuli-Responsive Controlled Drug Release from Magnetic-Sensitive Silica 
Nanospheres” ，另外兩篇 Poster 為 (1) Electrical-Sensitive TEOS-Chitosan 
Nanoparticles for Controlled Drug Release, (2) Electrochemical Behavior of 
Nano Cu/pHEMA Composites。在與會中，不僅碰到有一些有興趣的學者，也提
出他們的觀點及問題與筆者深入探討，同時筆者也趁這個機會多看看一些相關
其他的研究 Posters ，以進一步瞭解目前這方面的研究趨勢，從這些相互討論中
確實能得到一些心得。 
從這些所發表的論文及所聽聞的研究內容，可以看出目前或甚至未來在奈米
及生醫材料的發展趨勢及重點，將會集中於 Nanostructured photoelectronics、
Nanomedicine and controlled release 與 Drug delivery and Tumor treatment，這與本
人目前研究的重點相近，但是若進一步考量台灣的目前特殊環境，在臨床醫學
的研究仍相當缺乏，但在光電相關科技，則相當發達，因此若從短中長期的研
究規劃，可以看出則分別可定為早期的生醫感測(biosensors/biodetectors) ，中期
的奈米生醫及藥物釋放控制與傳遞，到長期的組織工程與再生。另外有點遺憾
