  
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ▊成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
利用溶液法成長石墨烯/碳奈米管透明導電薄膜研究 
 
 
計畫類別：▊個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  99－2628－ E －022 －001  
執行期間：   2010 年 08 月 01  日至 2011  年 10  月 31  日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立高雄海洋科技大學微電子工程系 
 
計畫主持人：卜一宇 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：碩士班研究生-兼任助理- 鄭俊傑 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：▊精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
▊出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年▊二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國   101 年 1   月 15   日 
II 
 
二、英文摘要： 
 
In this project, the production of chemically converted graphene nanoplate (CCGNP) is investigated. The 
optimized (CCGNP) were mixed with multiwalled carbon nanotubes to form highly transparent conductive 
oxide for solar cell applications.  
Already, carbon materials such as graphite and carbon nanotubes has been proven to be an excellent electrode 
material with high chemical stability, high transmittance, high surface area.  Graphene is a two dimensional 
form of graphite with extraordinary electronic properties with zero effective mass. We have investigated a 
novel type of TCO that incorporate graphene and carbon nanotube mixture. This have resulted in a flexible, 
transparent, uni-directional conductive electrode. Such TCO have the advantage of great conductivity, 
transparent, large area capability, low cost, solution process mechanically strong, and suitable for plastic 
substrates for flexible electronics. 
 
 
 
Keyword: graphene; carbon nanotube;solar cells 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Specifically, Graphite (4.0 g) and NaNO3 (2 g) were first mixed together in a beaker before 150 ml H2SO4 
(95%) was added to the beaker, which was cooled and stirred in an ice bath. Potassium permanganate (10.0 g) 
was then added to the suspension in steps to avoid exothermic heat generation. The mixture was stirred at 
room temperature for 5h. The color of the suspension turns brown. Then, 100 ml of distilled water was added. 
The temperature of the suspension would reach quickly to about 90oC and the color would turn to nright 
yellow. The diluted suspension was stirred for 12 h and 40 ml of 30% H2O2 was added to the mixture. For 
purification and heavy metal ion removal, the mixture was washed by rinsing with 5% HCl and then 
demonized water for three times. After filtration and drying in vacuum (horizontal furnance), graphene oxide 
was obtained in the form of black powders. 
 
The hydrazine converted graphene was dispersed in distilled water by ultrasonic bath mixing for 60 min. 
MWCNT was suspended in distilled water with the 1% surfactant SDS. The 
mixture of graphene/MWCNT suspension was sonicated for another 60 min under the same condition and 
then filtered through to create the composite 
 
After purification, the samples were characterized by several microscopy and spectroscopy techniques. 
Raman spectra were acquired by using the Renishaw 1000/2000 Raman microspectrometer. A transmission 
electron microscope (TEM) (FEI Tencai T20) was used to obtain images of the nanotubes. SEM image was 
taken by Carl Zeiss EVO MA 10. The transmittance data was obtained through UV-VIS-NIR 
Spectrophotometer 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 method of producing CNT/graphene mixture 
 
結果與討論 
 
One of the key objective of this project is to produce high quality CNTs from PECVD system. Figure 2 shows 
the high resolution TEM image of typical MWCNTs synthesised from our system. As expected, the MWCNTs 
consist of multi-layered graphene wrapped in tubular form. Fig. 2 shows the 
TEM pictures for the four area of the MWCNT: the concentric layers of the MWCNT, the hollow channel of 
the MWCNT, the carbonaceous material (amorphous carbon) deposited during deposition and 
4 
 
Figure 3 Typical raman spectroscopy of the MWCNTs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 TEM of the graphene flake 
 
Figure 4 shows the HR-TEM image of the derived graphene layer. A series of graphene/MWCNT composite 
were prepared in this study. The thickness of the composite is approximately 300 μm. The surface of the 
pure composite is very flat exhibits a layered structure throughout the films. Composite consists of graphene 
layers with an average thickness of 30 to 40 nm. In the graphene dominated composite, graphene and 
MWCNT were uniformly dispersed and highly entangled with each other.  
 
Figure 5 shows the resistivity of graphene/MWCNT composite 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The resistivity of the excessive graphene composite decreased with increasing weight fraction of MWCNTs, 
as shown in Fig. 5. Generally, the resistivity is related to both in plane and through-thickness conduction of 
electrons. Basically, MWCNTs acted as a binder to connect graphene layers and provided additional 
conduction paths for the electron transfer within the composite. In the MWCNT-excess composite, a 
pronounced combined effect on the resistivity was  observed. The incorporation of graphene into the 
6 
 
 
 
Figure 7 SEM image of TiO2 mixed with graphene to be served as counter electrode 
 
Fabrication and testing of DSSCs solar cells 
 
 
Figure 8 solar cell characterlistics of Pt and graphene+ TiO2 based counter electrode 
The DSSCs was fabricated as followed first the working electrode was fabricated by doctor blade method, in 
which the TiO2/ethanol paste was spread across the central area 4 cm2. TiO2 working electrodes was further 
heate treated on a hotplate at 450oC to ensure the nanoparticles are connected. Then the TiO2 working 
electrodes was immersed into ethanoic N719 dye for around 24 hours. Two sets of counter electrodes was 
fabricated 1) traditional sputtered Pt electrode and 2) graphene+TiO2. The counter electrode and working 
electrode was sandwiched and pressed together using a Suryn film and I, LiI mixture was injected into the 
sandwich to act as the electrolyte. Decent solar cell performance was achieved but still poorer than Pt based 
counter electrode. Possible causes are reduced catalytic activity in graphene. Work in underway to address 
these issues by changing the TiO2/graphene ratio and addition of other additives such as carbon black.  
 
8 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
   ▊達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ▊未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限）Graphene is a very interesting material that have been heavily investigated in 
several different field. This investigation showed that solution processed graphene and carbon 
nanotube composite can be used as flexible transparent conductive electrode.  
In terms of (學術成就), we have published the purification of CNT data in Diamond and 
related materials. and have submitted the graphene/CNT data to Materials letters and DSSCs 
data to Solar energy respectively. We expect to further publish 3 more paper on this subject  
 In terms of effect on society (社會影響等), I believe this will be of interest in flexible display 
technology such as display. we are working closely with E-Ink of Taiwan and Eversolar to bring 
the flexible technology and DSSCs to the market. The work is very important and valuable and 
further optimization can achieve good solar cell performances. One of the main cost in DSSCs is 
the TCO (SnO:F), by replacing the FTO by low cost transparent conductive graphene whilst 
retaining same performance could hold the key to commercialization of DSSC solar cells. 
 
 
 
 
 
附件二 
2 
 
2) Professor Sumio Iijima gives a good talk on graphene and repair of carbon nanotubes 
via nano-wealding. Although the technique was effective to correct the structure 
defects of carbon, the equipment was very excpensive 
3) Professor William Milne presented his latest work on field emission by capping carbon 
nanotubes with zinc oxide. This was the bases for his recent paper in Applied physics 
letters and we managed to arrange an academic visit in cambridge (2011) 
4) Professor Gerhan Amaratunga presented a very new concept in flexible battery using 
carbon nanotubes and zinc oxide. This work is also an extension from the paper their 
group published in ACS Nano in 2010 and well received 
5)  Professor Zongling Wang. Finally met this great Professor after reading so many of 
his paper in Science, Nature and several more. Professor Wang presented a new concept 
in using human body to generate energy.  
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
Graphene is a really interesting topic and several important academics in abroad and Taiwan 
have already conducted important research into its fundamental properties. It is important 
that Taiwanese Universities collaborate with electronic industry to develop this material 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1) Conference –proceeding 
2) CD- ROM 
六、其他 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：卜一宇 計畫編號：99-2628-E-022-001- 
計畫名稱：利用溶液法成長石墨烯/碳奈米管透明導電薄膜研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 2 100%  
研討會論文 4 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 20%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 9 15 80%  
研究報告/技術報告 2 3 100%  
研討會論文 5 8 80% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 1 1 20% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
