negotiation activator to ensure the objectives of the 
scheduling mechanism can be factually monitored and 
achieved. Multiple objectives are considered in this 
research, which include total tardiness, total flow 
time, unbalanced of machine utilization, and total 
revenue. Experiments are conducted based on the 
enterprise practices and compared to the applied 
scheduling policy of the companies to evaluate the 
performance of the proposed system. This research 
provides an integrated process plan, scheduling 
approach and the construction model of agent-based 
negotiation mechanism for parallel machines 
scheduling with preference. 
英文關鍵詞： Software agent, parallel machine, preference of 
machines, negotiation 
 
2 
changeover can occur between two lots of same products due to tool wear. The objective is to minimize the 
number of tool changeovers, while trying to meet the required due date. Rocha et al. (2008) proposed a B&B 
with GRASP algorithm for unrelated parallel machines with sequence-dependent setup time. The objective is 
minimizing makespan and total weighted tardiness. Chen and Wu (2006) and Logendran et al. (2007) both 
applied TS approach to develop efficient algorithms for sequence-dependent setup time. Kim et al (2002, 
2003) applied SA approach to develop efficient algorithms for unrelated parallel machines problem with 
batch sequence-dependent setup time. The problem dealt with jobs that may have different items and every 
item within each job has an identical processing with a common due date. The objectives were either total 
tardiness minimization or total weighted tardiness minimization. 
As for multi-objective parallel machines scheduling problems, Suresh and Chaudhuri (1996) proposed 
an TS-based algorithm to solve bi-objective, minimizing the makespan and the maximum tardiness, 
scheduling problem for unrelated parallel machines. T'kindt et al. (2001) dealt with a bi-objective scheduling 
problem on unrelated machines for the glass bottle industry. The bi-objective is total margin maximization 
and the difference in machines workload minimization. Cochran et al. (2003) proposed a two-stage 
multi-population genetic algorithm (MPGA) for parallel machines scheduling problems with multi-objective 
including makespan, total weighted tardiness, and total weighted completion time. The MPGA is compared 
with a benchmark method, the multi-objective genetic algorithm (MOGA), and the performance is better than 
MOGA’s. Loukil et al. (2005) developed a multi-objective simulated annealing (MOSA) for one machine, 
parallel machines and permutation flow shops scheduling problems. The objectives include mean weighted 
completion time, mean weighted tardiness, mean weighted earliness, makespan, maximum tardiness, 
maximum earliness, and number of tardy jobs. 
In a problem related to the presence of machine eligibility on parallel machines, a job can only be 
processed on a subset of the parallel machines. For example, in electro-etching process of aluminum foil 
factory, each grade product has its ‘preferred’ machine which possesses the fittest operation condition. 
Therefore, in parallel machines scheduling, the assumption that a job can be processed on any machine is not 
always true. 
None work except Chuang et al. (2010) has been done on parallel machines with longer processing time 
required when jobs are not processed on their preferred machines. The problem is regarded as an unrelated 
parallel machines problem, but with a special characteristic. That is, the parallel machines problem with 
machine eligibility is actually a special case of unrelated parallel machines problems. 
Nowadays, using multi-agent systems to resolve a scheduling problem is widely applied in many works. 
An agent is a type of software that can autonomously perform routine tasks with a degree of intelligence. 
Agent-based system on production planning and/or scheduling has been studied in several literatures. 
Yokoyama et al. (2006, 2007, 2008) proposed various multi-agent systems to solve assembly line, stochastic 
assembly line, and mixed-model assembly line balancing problems respectively. The agent-based system is 
decentralized approach and treats works as multiple autonomous agents. In these papers, adjacent agents are 
applied as trade and transfer mechanism to ensure line balancing. The performance of the multi-agent 
systems is better than other centralized methods. Besides, Zhang et al. (2003) and Wong et al. (2006a) 
present multi-agent system to develop integrated process planning and scheduling (IPPS) in job shop and a 
negotiation protocol is developed for negotiations between job agents and machine agents. Further, Wong et 
al. (2006b) employs a supervisor agent to coordinate and monitor the rescheduling process for ensuring the 
better global rescheduling objectives. The integration methods can achieve satisfactory process plans and 
effective schedules in efficient manner. 
3. Problem description 
3.1 The definition of operational parameters 
This research focuses on the scheduling of the first and second grade aluminum foil in the 
electro-etching processes. According to the related production data which are provided by a senior manager 
in the case company, the definition of operational parameters are described as follows.  
(1) 1n  and 2n  are the numbers of first and second grade jobs, respectively, and a total of jobs is 
21 nnn  . 
4 
(1) Total tardiness (TT) 
 

 n
j
jj dC
1
),0max(TT  (1) 
where jC  denotes the completion time of job j . 
(2) Total flow time (TF) 
 

 n
j
jj tC
1
)(TF  (2) 
(3) Unbalance of machine workload (U) 
 
  %1001
1 max
max  

m
k
k
U
UU
m
U  (3) 
where kU  is the total operation time of machine k , and k
k
UU maxmax  . 
(4) Total revenue (TR) 
 

 n
j
jRa
1
1TR  (4) 
where 








machine grade-first on the
 processed isbut  job grade-second  theis  job if
machine grade-second on the
 processed isbut  job grade-first  theis  job if
machine dprefererreon  processed is  job if,1
,5
,4
1
j
j
j
b
b
a  
3.3 Current heuristic applied in the case company 
At present, the studied factory adapts an intuitive heuristic, named H. The heuristic applies earliest due 
date (EDD) rule to obtain an initial job sequence. And jobs of initial sequence are assigned in turn to earliest 
completion time. The procedure of H is described as follows. 
Step 1. Sequencing all the jobs by EDD (earliest due date) rule and obtain the initial job sequence 
nJJJ ...,,, 21 . Let j  denotes the job index, and when 1j , all machines are available, that is, 
0)( kB ,  ,...,2,1 mk  , where )(kB  denotes machine k is available for job processing. 
Step 2. Determine the completion time of job j  on machine k , jjjj sapatkBkC  32) ),(max()( . 
Select the machine *k to process job j , where )(minarg* kC k jk . 




otherwise,1
machine grade-second on the processednot  is job grade-second  theif,
machine grade-first on the processednot  is job grade-first  theif,
2
1
2 b
b
a  



otherwise,1
different are jobs successive  twoof grades-job  theif,3
3
b
a
 
Step 3. )()( ** kCkB j . Delete job j  from sequence  . If  , then, 1 jj , and go to Step 2. 
Step 4. Determine the objectives by Equations (1)-(4). 
4. Proposed multi-agent system 
4.1 The proposed multi-agent architecture 
A multi-agent-based architecture is developed to provide intelligent support for negotiation in 
scheduling. There are three types of agents in the proposed system, i.e., job agent, machine agent, and 
6 
When the system boots up, the management agent creates all the job agents and machine agents for each 
job and machine and delivers the corresponding data and working parameters to each job agent and each 
machine agent simultaneously. The job agents and machine agents then register their service type to JADE 
DF (JADE, 2011) and wait for the negotiation signal from management agent. A negotiation round is begun 
with the ACL message INFORM sent from management agent. Once a job agent receives the ACL message 
INFORM from management agent. It will send immediately an ACL message CFP, enclosed with the 
sender’s data, to all machine agents for a bid. That is, there are n  job agents send their own CFP to m  
machine agents concurrently in a round. 
Similarly, machine agent recognizes that a new round is begun if it receives an ACL message INFORM 
from management agent. Each machine agent will wait for all CFPs sent from all unassigned jobs (job 
agents) and calculate the bid value and possible schedule for each CFP based on Equation (5). The best bid 
will be chosen as the only candidate for processing by the machine. Afterwards, machine agent sends an 
ACL message PROPOSE attached with the bid value and possible schedule to the sole chosen job agent and 
an ACL message REFUSE to others. In the meantime, job agents listen to the message from all machine 
agents, drop the REFUSE messages and catch the PROPOSE ones. Job agents will evaluate all of the bid 
with a PROPOSE message and determine the most beneficial bid based on the objectives, Equation (6). The 
best bid will be chosen as the winner and the job agent will reply an ACL message, ACCEPT-PROPOSAL, 
to the sender. That is, the job will be assigned to the machine. When machine agent receives an 
ACCEPT-PROPOSAL message from job agent, it will reply immediately an AGREE message to the job 
agent for confirmation and also send an AGREE message to management agent at the same time. The chosen 
job agent will be marked as “done” and all its negotiation behaviors stop. Management agent, then, records 
the processing time and processing schedule for the machine agent. It means that a negotiation round of 
job-machine-matching process is accomplished. 
As the interactive negotiation process described above, if there still has jobs waiting for processing, 
management agent will trigger the next round for bidding with an ACL message INFORM to job agents and 
machine agents. When all jobs have been assigned completely to their favorable machines, management 
agent will send an ACL message, CONFIRM, to all job agents and machine agents as a termination signal of 
the job-assign-to-machine processes. 
6. Experiment and results 
6.1 Computational experiments 
There are four problem types from different combination of machine number and job number at the 
parameter experiment. Each problem type has 30 instances to be run. Therefore, a total of 120 test problems 
are considered for each response variable (TT, TF, U, and TF). The problem types are described as Table 2.  
 
Table 2. Problem type and description 
Problem type Description 
Type I 
Type II 
Type III 
Type IV 
31 m , 52 m , 151 n , 252 n  
31 m , 52 m , 251 n , 152 n  
51 m , 32 m , 151 n , 252 n  
51 m , 32 m , 251 n , 152 n  
 
For the proposed negotiation mechanism, the negotiation criteria between machine agents and job agents 
are *kCFP  and 
*
jE , i.e., Equations (5) and (6), respectively. For searching better solutions, this research 
adopt experimental design method to select proper ratios of 21/ww  and 43/ww . Factorial designs of the 
experiments are described using “R1 × R2 × Type” notation, in which “R1” stands for the levels of 21/ww  
ratio, “R2” stands for the levels of 43 /ww  ratio, “Type” stands for the levels of problem type. The levels of 
R1 are 1/8, 1/4, 1/2, 1/1, 2/1, 4/1 and 8/1, R2 are 1/4, 1/1 and 4/1, and problem type are I, II, III and IV. For 
each problem type, 30 instances are randomly produced. With 120 test problems and 21 different 
8 
7. Conclusions 
This research constructs an agent-based system for multi-objective parallel machines scheduling with 
preference of machines. The proposed framework consists of three types of agents and agents can negotiate 
effectively based on the designed negotiation protocol and embedded decision model. As a result of applying 
multi-threads and parallel processing technique, the framework can solve large problems only consume little 
time, e.g., a 100-job and 10-machine problem can be solved within 300s to obtain a good solution. The 
superior characteristic is very suitable for appliance in industrial practice. 
In this research, 30 independent instances were generated for each problem type, and resulted in a total 
of 120 test problems for each 21/ww  and 43 /ww  combination. With 120 test problems and 21 different 
combination of values for 21/ww  and 43 /ww , a total of 2520 instances are run. The solutions of the 
proposed multi-agent system are compared with H algorithm. By MANOVA analysis, the distinct problem 
types have significant difference on total tardiness (TT) and total flow time (TF). The experiments show that 
the performance of proposed agent-based scheduling system is superior to the intuitive EDD-based heuristic 
applied in the case company.  
References 
1. Adamopoulos, G.I. and Pappis, C. P., 1998. Scheduling under a common due-data on parallel unrelated 
machines. European Journal of Operational Research, 105 (3), 494-501. 
2. Allahverdi, A. Ng C.T., Cheng, T.C.E. and Kovalyov, M.Y., 2008. A survey of scheduling problems 
with setup times or costs. European Journal of Operational Research, 187 (3), 985-1032. 
3. Bank, J. and Werner, F., 2001. Heuristic algorithms for unrelated parallel machine scheduling with a 
common due date, release dates, and linear earliness and tardiness penalties. Mathematical and 
Computer Modelling, 33 (4-5), 363-383. 
4. Chen, J.F. and Wu, T.H., 2006. Total tardiness minimization on unrelated parallel machine scheduling 
with auxiliary equipment constraints. Omega, 34 (1), 81-89. 
5. Chuang, M.C., Liao, C.J. and Chao, C.W., 2010. Parallel machine scheduling with preference of 
machines. International Journal of Production Research, 48(14), 4139-4152. 
6. Cochran, J.K., Horng, S.M. and Fowler, J.W., 2003. A multi-population genetic algorithm to solve 
multi-objective scheduling problems for parallel machines. Computers & Operations Research, 30 (7), 
1087-1102. 
7. Dessouky, M.M., 1998. Scheduling identical jobs with unequal ready time on uniform parallel machines 
to minimize the maximum lateness. Computers and Industrial Engineering, 34 (4), 793-806. 
8. Dunstall, S. and Wirth, A., 2005a. A comparison of branch- and-bound algorithms for a family 
scheduling problem with identical parallel machines. European Journal of Operational Research, 167 
(2), 283-296. 
9. Dunstall, S. and Wirth, A., 2005b. Heuristic methods for the identical parallel machine flowtime 
problem with set-up times. Computers and Operations Research, 32 (9), 2479-2491. 
10. Fanjul-Peyro, L. and Ruiz, R., 2010. Iterated greedy local search methods for unrelated parallel machine 
scheduling. European Journal of Operational Research, 207 (1), 55-69. 
11. Fanjul-Peyro, L. and Ruiz, R., 2011. Size-reduction heuristics for the unrelated parallel machines 
scheduling problem. Computers and Operations Research, 38 (1), 301-309. 
12. FIPA, 2011. FIPA ACL Message Structure Specification/ FIPA Ontology Service Specification. 
Available at: http://www.fipa.org/repository/aclspecs.html. Cited 30 March. 20110. 
13. Ghirardi, M. and Potts, C.N., 2005. Makespan minimization for scheduling unrelated parallel machines: 
A recovering beam search approach. European Journal of Operational Research, 165 (2), 457-467. 
14. JADE, 2011. Available at: http://jade.tilab.com/. Cited 30 March 20110. 
15. Kim, D.W., Kim, K.H., Jang, W. and Frank, C.F., 2002. Unrelated parallel machine scheduling with 
setup times using simulated annealing. Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing, 18 (3-4), 
223-231. 
16. Kim, D.W., Na, D.G. and Frank, C.F., 2003. Unrelated parallel machine scheduling with setup times 
and a total weighted tardiness objective. Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing, 19 (1-2), 
173-181. 
  共 2 頁  第 1 頁 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期：101 年 06 月 16 日 
計 畫 編 號 NSC 100 – 2221 – E – 167 – 003 – 
計 畫 名 稱 代理人為基之協商方法應用於具合適性平行機之排程研究(II) 
出國人員姓名 黃敬仁、廖麗滿 服 務 機 構及 職 稱 國立勤益科技大學 工業工程與管理系 
會 議 時 間 101 年 06 月 11 日至 101 年 06 月 13 日止 會 議 地 點
The Inna Grand Bali Beach Hotel, Resort & 
Spa, Sanur, Bali, Indonesia. 
會 議 名 稱 
(中文) 第 6 屆 IEEE 創新與技術管理國際研討會 
(英文) The 6th IEEE International Conference on Management of Innovation and 
Technology (ICMIT2012) 
發表論文題目 
(中文) 以代理人為基之方法於具合適性平行機之動態排程 
(英文) An agent-based dynamic scheduling for parallel machine under machine 
eligibility constraints 
一、參加會議經過 
1. 去程 
於 2012/06/10 上午 9 時 15 分，自台灣桃園國際機場搭乘中華航空(China Airlines) CI0771 班機，
經過 5 小時又 5 分鐘後，於下午 2 時 20 分，飛抵印尼峇里島機場(Denpasar Bali Airport)，隨
即赴下榻飯店。 
2. 研討會議程 
於 2012/06/11 至 2012/06/13 研討會議程間，聆聽 Keynote Speech 演講，以了解工業工程與工
程管理領域之發展現況與未來趨勢。並再參加各場次與研究有關之主題，聽取各國相同研究領
域之學術先進，報告研究發展近況與研究論文內容，並與參與者交換研究心得。 
3. 論文發表 
於 2012/06/13 下午 1 時 30 分參與 Paper Session: Production Planning and Control (Room Legong 
& Pendet, 13:30pm - 15:00pm)，發表研究論文 “An agent-based dynamic scheduling for parallel 
machine under machine eligibility constraints”，論文編號：ICMIT12-P-0356，同時接受與會學者
提問與討論。該場次共有 4 篇與生產計劃與管制有關的論文到場發表，論文題目列示如下： 
(1) Applying Multi-agent Approach to Mixed-model Assembly Line Balancing 
(2) An Agent-based Dynamic Scheduling for Parallel Machine Under Machine Eligibility 
Constraints 
(3) Process and Labour Utilisation in The Electronic Industry: A Simulation Approach 
(4) An Implementation of A Precision Fastener Management System for Aircraft Manufacturing 
本次專題研究計畫發表的文章，被安排在第 2 發表順位。 
4. 回程 
From: ICMIT 2012 Secretariat <info@icmit2012.org>  
To: cjhuang <cjhuang@cjhuang.idv.tw>;huang508 <huang508@ncut.edu.tw>;liao507 <liao507@cjhuang.idv.tw> 
CC: sarah <sarah@meetmatt.net> 
Subject: ICMIT 2012 Paper Notification (ICMIT12-P-0356) 
Date: 2012-03-01, 09:12:29 
 
Thursday, March 01, 2012
Dear Dr Ching-Jen Huang  
The organizing committee of the 2012 IEEE International Conference on Management of Information and Technology congratulates you 
on the acceptance of your paper and its presentation at the meeting in Sanur, Bali.  
ICMIT12-P-0356 An agent-based dynamic scheduling for parallel machine under machine eligibility constraints  
We are pleased to inform you that this paper of yours has been accepted for presentation at ICMIT2012 in Singapore. 
 Please incorporate the comments from reviewers (if any) in the final version of your paper. Your final paper has to be camera-
ready and prepared following the ICMIT2012 paper guidelines.  
 Please also ensure that your paper is free from serious language mistakes. To maintain the international standard of IEEE 
conferences, we reserve the right to exclude your paper in the final proceedings if the language is deemed unsatisfactory.  
 Note also that the abstract length accompanying your final paper may not exceed 120 words which is the standard requirement 
for inclusion in the Book of Program and Abstracts which will be distributed onsite to all participants.  
 Please note that there will only be oral presentations for ICMIT2012. We may face schedule and venue constraints when 
preparing the program, so do be flexible.  
Only camera-ready manuscripts that are IEEE XploreR compliant can be included in the ICMIT2012 conference proceedings and 
appear in IEEE XploreR. In this regard, your co-operation is much appreciated to avoid delays.  
Authors must register and make payment by 1 April 2012 to ensure that their papers are included in the proceedings. Please be sure 
to sign your copyright transfer form online also by 1 April 2012. 
The portal for final paper submission and copyright transfer form will open on 1 March 2012. The conference will begin to 
accept registration and payment also, from 1 March 2012.  
Confirmation of participation is subject to payment being received. Please register and make payment early. 
A series of conference tours are being planned to enrich your stay in Bali. To avoid schedule conflicts, the activities are being planned 
to take place before and after the conference events of the day. Booking confirmation is subject to payment being received and on a 
first-come first-served basis. 
SUBMIT FINAL PAPER: http://www.icmit2012.org/public.asp?page=submitFinal.htm 
REGISTER TO ATTEND: http://www.icmit2012.org/public.asp?page=register.htm  
Yours truly, 
ICMIT2012 Secretariat 
The conference will be held at the INNA GRAND BALI BEACH HOTEL, RESORT & SPA 
Jln. Hang Tuah Sanur - Bali 80032, PO BOX 3275 Denpasar 80032  
Tel: (62) 361-288511 Fax: (62) 361-287917 Website: http://www.innagrandbalibeach.com/ 
Hotel booking - details to be announced here: http://icmit2012.org/public.asp?page=venue.htm  
Reviewer 1
Overall Comments This paper is acceptable. Minor improvements can be done in terms of organization/language/literature review etc. Some futher comments are given below.
Detailed Comments
Does the framework work only on 2 machines (as described in the problem description) or able to work on 
general n machines? Please state clearly. 
I tthink it would be better if some numerical examples are provided 
Reviewer 2
Overall Comments This paper is excellent and can be accepted as it is. Some minor comments are given here.
Ching-Jen Huang - (1/2)
Print Time: 2012/3/1, 上午 09:17:38
An agent-based dynamic scheduling for parallel machine under machine 
eligibility constraints 
 
C. J. Huang 1, L. M. Liao2 
1,2Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, National Chin-Yi University of Technology, Taichung, 
Taiwan, ROC 
[huang508, liao507]@cjhuang.idv.tw 
 
Abstract –This research applies agent-based negotiation 
approach to construct a multi-agent-based framework and 
solve parallel machines rescheduling with eligibility. The 
proposed architecture comprises three types of agents: job 
agents, machine agents, and supervisor agent. The decision 
model is built in each job/machine agent for bid selection to 
ensure better global objectives can be reached. The 
supervisor agent is used to manage negotiations between job 
agents and machine agents and monitor the production 
process. When there are some disruptive events occurred, 
the supervisor agent will arrange dynamically a reactive 
scheduling to update the current production scheduling in 
order to provide an immediate response to the unexpected 
event. The objectives are multiple, which include total 
weighted tardiness, total flow time, and utilization. 
 
Keywords – Software agent, parallel machine, preference 
of machines, electro-etching process, rescheduling 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
Uncertainty is a very important issue in scheduling 
since it can cause infeasibilities and production 
disturbances [1]. Thus scheduling under uncertainty 
(rescheduling) has received a lot of attention in recent 
years from industrial engineering and operations research 
communities. In general, the two key elements in 
scheduling are the scheduling generation and the 
scheduling revisions. Scheduling generation acts as a 
predictive mechanism that determines the completion 
time of jobs based on given requirements and constraints. 
Scheduling revision is a reactive part, which monitors 
execution of scheduling and deals with unexpected 
events. Reactive scheduling is a process to modify the 
created schedule during the manufacturing process to 
adapt change (uncertainty) in production environment, 
such as disruptive events, rush order arrivals, order 
cancellations or machine breakdowns. 
This paper considers an aluminum foil factory [2]. The 
manufacturing processes of aluminum foil often included 
seven main steps which are pre-processing, water 
cleaning, electro-etching, chemical cleaning, pure water 
cleaning, baking, and forming. And the electro-etching is 
the critical process which usually has many parallel 
machines with three distinct voltage equipments to deal 
with distinct grades products [3]. Due to the product’s 
specification, each grade product has its ‘preference’ 
machine which possesses the fittest operation condition. 
Therefore, the scheduling problem is parallel machines 
with eligibility [2].  
This paper applies agent-based negotiation approach to 
construct an agent-based dynamic scheduling for parallel 
machine (ADSPM). The proposed architecture comprises 
three types of agents: job agents, machine agents, and 
supervisor agent. Each job/machine has a corresponding 
job agent/machine agent and the decision model is built in 
each agent for bid selection. A negotiation protocol based 
on FIPA (Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agent) ACL 
message [4] is developed for communication between job 
agents and machine agents to ensure better global 
objectives can be reached. And supervisor agent plays as 
a centralized controller and a system coordinator. The 
main function of supervisor agent is to manage 
negotiations between job agents and machine agents and 
used to monitor the production process. When there are 
some disruptive events occurred, the supervisor agent will 
arrange dynamically a reactive scheduling to update the 
current production scheduling in order to provide an 
immediate response to the unexpected event. The 
objectives in this research are multiple, which include 
total weighted tardiness, total flow time, and utilization. 
This paper is structured as follows. Section 2 reviews 
related studies of parallel machine scheduling and the 
problem of scheduling under uncertainty. Section 3 
describes the considered problem. Section 4 discusses the 
proposed agent-based system architecture, its major 
component and agents behaviors, and how it works is 
described in Section 5. Finally, our conclusions are drawn 
in Section 6. 
 
 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
 
Most of the work in the area of scheduling deals with 
the deterministic optimization model where all the 
parameters are considered known. In dynamic, stochastic 
manufacturing environments, managers must not only 
generate superior schedules, but also react quickly to 
unexpected events. These events are difficult to take into 
consideration in advance and always disturb the 
predetermined schedule severely. There are many types 
of disturbances that occurred in process operation, such as 
demand or changes in product orders or order priority, 
batch or equipment failures, processing time delays, rush 
orders, rework or quality problems, resource changes, and 
unavailable material [1, 5, 6]. In practice, rescheduling is 
done periodically to update processes for the next time 
period based on the current state of the manufacturing 
environment.  
978-1-4673-0110-7/12/$31.00 ©2012 IEEE  689
ADSPM Framework
Negotiation mechanism
U
ser interface
Mechanism for machine 
failure
Job and machine data
Machine
data
Job data
Negotiation 
mechanism
Machine
data
Job data
Negotiation 
mechanism
Mechanism for job 
sequence adjustment
Embedded 
decision model
Embedded 
decision model
Machine Agents
Job Agents
Supervisor Agent
ACL 
msg.
ACL 
msg.
ACL 
msg.
 
Fig. 1 Proposed multi-agent framework of ADSPM 
 
B. Machine agent’s decision model 
A machine agent is to select a call-for-proposal (CFP) 
by two objectives, maximize the revenue and machine 
utilization, in bid construction. The machine agent 
identifies the most beneficial *CFP  from the job agents 
and selects it as the sole winner. The formula is described 
as (4)[11]. 
)}(  {max arg max211
*
jj
j
k ddwpawCFP −×+××=  (4) 
where 
⎪⎩
⎪⎨
⎧
=
otherwise,
 machine preferredon  processed is  job if,1
4
1
b
kj
a , 
jj dd maxmax = , and  1w and 2w  are weights. 
 
C. Job agent’s decision model 
To begin with, each job agent sends the CFP to all 
machine agents. Then the machine agents evaluate all 
CFP and send back with a BID message. Now, the job 
agent identifies the most beneficial bid in bid evaluation 
by two objectives, minimize total tardiness and flow time. 
The formula is described as (5)[11]. 
)}(C )0,)(Cmax({min arg 43
* kwdkwE jjj
k
j ×+−×=  (5) 
where )(C kj  is completion time of job j on machine k, 
and  3w and 4w  are weights. 
 
 
V. SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION 
 
According to the system modeling above, this paper 
established a corresponding prototype system on JADE 
platform for the simulation environment. JADE is 
conformed to the FIPA specification. In this paper, all 
bidding messages (INFORM, CFP, PROPOSE, 
ACCEPT-PROPOSAL, and AGREE) are compliant with 
FIPA ACL message standard. The main software tools 
used for implementation include: 
1. Microsoft Windows XP service pack 3. 
2. Sun Java SE Development Kit (JDK) 6 Update 30 or 
Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 6 Update 30. 
3. TILab JADE version 4.1.1 for agent platform. 
4. JCreator Pro version 4.5 and eclipse SDK version 3.7 
for agent system coding. 
 
In the initialization period, the supervisor agent firstly 
creates all the job agents and machine agents for each job 
and each machine. In the mean time, supervisor agent 
delivers the corresponding data and working parameters 
to each job agent and each machine agent. The job agents 
and machine agents then register their service type to 
JADE DF and wait for the starting negotiation signal 
(ACL message) from supervisor agent. All the protocol, 
using the ACL message as a medium, is predefined. What 
the behavior an agent should adopts is depended on what 
the ACL message it receives. 
Fig. 2 depicts the schematic ACL message flow 
between job agents and machine agents. A negotiation 
round is begun with the ACL message INFORM 
projected from the supervisor agent. Once a job agent 
receives the ACL message INFORM from supervisor 
agent. It will send immediately an ACL message CFP, 
enclosed with the sender’s data, to all machine agents for 
a bid PROPOSE. That is, there are n  job agents send 
their own CFP to m  machine agents concurrently in the 
first round. 
Similarly, machine agent recognizes that a new round 
is begun, if it receives an INFORM message from 
supervisor agent. Each machine agent will wait for all 
CFPs sent from all unassigned jobs (job agents) and 
calculate the bid value and possible schedule for each 
CFP based on Equation (4). The best bid will be chosen 
as a candidate for processing by each machine. And then, 
the machine agent send a PROPOSE message with bid 
value and possible schedule to the sole chosen job agent 
(the sole winner for a single machine agent in this round) 
and a REFUSE message to others. In the mean time, job 
agents listen to the message from all machine agents, 
drop the REFUSE messages and reserve the PROPOSE 
ones. Job agents will evaluate the bid with a PROPOSE 
message and determine the most beneficial bid based on 
Equation (5). The best bid will be chosen as the winner to 
commit to and the job agent will reply an ACL message, 
ACCEPT-PROPOSAL, to the sender (machine agent). 
That is, the job will be assigned to the machine. When 
machine agent receives an ACCEPT-PROPOSAL 
message from job agent, it will reply immediately an 
AGREE message to the job agent for confirmation and 
send an AGREE message to supervisor agent at the same 
time. The chosen job agent will be marked as “done” and 
all its negotiation behaviors stop.  
As the interactive negotiation process described above, 
if there still have jobs waiting to be assigned, the 
supervisor agent will start another round immediately. 
When all jobs are assigned, supervisor agent, then, 
records the processing time and processing schedule for 
each machine agent and send an CONFIRM message to 
all job agents and machine agents as a termination signal 
of the stage. That is, a job-machine-matching process is 
accomplished. 
 691
(ICMA2010), The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, China, December 13-15, 2010. 
[12] JADE, Available at: http://jade.tilab.com/. Cited 30 March 
2011. 
 
 
 693
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃敬仁 計畫編號：100-2221-E-167-003- 
計畫名稱：代理人為基之協商方法應用於具合適性平行機之排程研究(II) 
量化 
成果項目 
實際
已達
成數
（被
接受
或已
發
表） 
預期總
達成數
(含實際
已達成
數) 
本
計
畫
實
際
貢
獻
百
分
比
單
位
備註（質化說明：如數個計畫共同成果、成果列
為該期刊之封面故事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 1 00%  
研究報告/技
術報告 1 1 
1 0
0% 國科會本年度結案報告 
研討會論文 2 0 1 00%
篇 黃敬仁、黃嘉宏 (2012)， ＇應用代理人協商技術於混
合型裝配線平衡問題＇，2012 商業現代化學術研討會
(CCM2012)，中華民國商業現代化學會、高雄應用科技
大學，高雄市，May 25, 2012。（獲得大會評審佳作）
(NSC100-2221-E-167-003-) 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 1 00%   
申請中件數 0 0 1 00%  專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 1 00%
件
 
件數 0 0 1 00% 件  技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 1 00%
千
元  
碩士生 2 2 1 00%  
博士生 0 0 1 00%  
博士後研究
員 0 0 
1 0
0%  
國
內 
參與計畫
人力 
（本國
籍） 
專任助理 0 0 1 00%
人
次
 
國
外 論文著作 期刊論文 1 0 1 0
0%
篇 Huang, C. J., Liao, L. M. 
(2011), ＇Multi-agent-based negotiation approach 
for parallel machine scheduling with 
multi-objective in electro-etching process＇, 
International Journal of Production Research, 
其他成果 
(無法以量化
表達之成果
如辦理學術
活動、獲得
獎項、重要
國際合作、
研究成果國
際影響力及
其他協助產
業技術發展
之具體效益
事項等，請
以文字敘述
填列。) 
1. 研究上之成果與貢獻：近年來將智慧型代理人技術整合工作排程演算法，進行跨領域
的結合，運用代理人技術解決一些工作排程上的問題，並已有初步成果。尤其當排程環
境並非是靜態的情況，而是必須隨著實際排程實施時，可能發生各種突發狀況，如插單、
機器故障、調整工作優先權等，必須進行動態排程調整時，傳統的排程演算法就不易處
理。將代理人技術導入於工作排程演算法，除了要有訓練良好的系統分析與程式開發能
力外，更必須熟悉物件導向與代理人導向軟體工程方法論。整合智慧型代理人技術與工
作排程演算法兩者，將能帶動產業先進應用發展，進行現場實務運作監控，對產業技術
應用具有前導性指標作用。 
2. 本專案研究生助理黃嘉宏參加研討會發表論文：黃敬仁、黃嘉宏 (2012)， ＇應用代
理人協商技術於混合型裝配線平衡問題＇，2012 商業現代化學術研討會(CCM2012)，中華
民國商業現代化學會、高雄應用科技大學，高雄市，May 25, 2012。（獲得大會評審佳作）
(NSC100-2221-E-167-003-) 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱
聽）人數 0 
 
 
