immediately show the moving trajectory of 
construction machinery, and has the immediate 
guidance function. In addition, the system may still 
be compatible to Taiwan‘s current common format 
coordinates. After the field test, the advantage of 
the proposed system lies not only in improving real-
time monitoring and saving the manpower, but also in 
enhancing the measurement precision and effectively 
reducing the survey time and then reveals achievement 
of construction automation. The system can 
immediately show the trajectory of motion in regard 
to deployed construction equipment through the 
integration of the six modules. Based on the field 
test results on the roadway and sea, this system has 
proven that it can improve real-time monitoring of 
pile construction, saving approximate 42% of the 
schedule time and 11% of the survey cost, while also 
enhancing precision of pile positioning measurements.
英文關鍵詞： Global Positioning System (GPS), Marine Engineering, 
Information System 
 
 i
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
GPS 即時施工監控系統之建置-以海事工程打樁作業為例 
Development of GPS-Based Target Positioning System for Marine Construction 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-002-183-MY2 
執行期限：2009 年 8 月 1 日至 2011 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：曾惠斌 
執行機構及系所：國立臺灣大學土木工程學系暨研究所 
 
摘要 
 
國內已推行營建自動化多年，在施工機具自動化的發展上已具備一定的水準，但在海事
工程之棧橋式碼頭工程中上卻缺少測量應用資訊系統之整合，使效率仍受限制，無法完全發
揮施工機具自動化所帶來之效益。有鑑於此，本研究建置一套即時動態定位測量快速目標物
定位系統，以達到快速定位並解決工作效率受限之目的。建置系統中包含資料擷取模組、座
標轉換模組、目標物設定模組、路徑繪圖模組、物件縮放模組與方位引導模組，透過圖形化
系統等六大模組，使系統能整合不同軟硬體介面之間之數據傳輸方式，並能即時顯示施工機
具位置、描繪機具運行之軌跡以及具備即時導引功能，並且相容目前台灣常用的座標格式。
經過實地測試，證明此系統確實可以達成即時監控之目的，並使所需人力減半、大幅度的提
升測量精確度，能有效縮短測量時間，以提升海事工程之資訊化及自動化程度，本研究第一
期主要於分析海事工程的實地需求及打樁控制功能開發，第二期主要對於 GPS 資料擷取及計
算分析出絕對及相對位置之功能，因 GPS 公司所提供的系統未能符合本研究的基樁操控功能
整合，本研究第二期主要自行開發此功能並進行實地測試。經實測本研究所開發之系統，相
較以傳統定位之打樁方式可有效縮短 42%的工作時間與降低 11%的成本。 
 
關鍵詞：全球定位系統(GPS)、即時動態定位測量(RTK)、海事工程 
 
 iii
 
目錄 
 
摘要 ................................................................................................................................ I 
ABSTRACT ................................................................................................................ II 
1. INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................... 1 
2. LITERATURE REVIEW ....................................................................................... 2 
3. SYSTEM DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT ........................................................ 3 
3.1 THE STRUCTURE OF THE SYSTEM ........................................................................... 3 
3.2 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT ......................................................................................... 3 
4. INSTALLATION AND MEASURED ................................................................. 12 
5. SYSTEM EVALUATION AND DISCUSSION ................................................. 18 
6. CONCLUSION AND DISCUSSION ................................................................... 20 
7. REFERENCE ........................................................................................................ 21 
 
 
 2
There are three research methods in this academic thesis: expert interview, system develops 
and on-site test which will be discussed in further detail. The problem statement is shown in Fig1 
and research flow as follow: 
(1) Expert interview: The chief aim in this research is to realize how much time and manpower 
should be consumed in pile wharf and position method then to discuss the understanding and 
demand of contractor. 
(2) System develops and on-site test: In this system, data acquisition module, coordinate 
transformation module, target setting module, path mapping module, object zooming module and 
position guidance module are integrated by using Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0. The result of above 
module integration constructs a set of graphical target positioning system integrated with GPS 
technology. There is an on-site test and virtual test on the roadway and sea to evaluate this system 
after linking up target positioning system integrated with GPS technology and engineer equips. 
Moreover, National Taiwan University campus is the main position in roadway testing. 
 
2. LITERATURE REVIEW  
 
This section aims at collection and integration of references. First, GPS theory and utilization 
of GPS will be discussed. Then coordinate measuring systems and transformation method will be 
discussed in further detail. 
The United States Department of Defense developed GPS, which provides users with position, 
speed and time information, for Navigational Satellite System in military (Huang, 2006). Because 
of the lifting of SA (Selective Availability) in 2000, the level of global position accuracy has 
increased (Peyret et al., 2000). Furthermore, GPS has been used with cell phones, PDAs, 
automobile navigation system and transportation management (Huang, 2000). GPS depends on the 
signal of 24 satellites. GPS receiver uses triangulation theorem to get positions (Perkinson, et al., 
2010). The GPS receiver and angle of satellite signal may affect position accuracy (Tyan, 2003). 
GPS can be divided into three parts: Standard Positioning Service (SPS), Differential GPS (DGPS), 
and RTK (Leick, A., 2004). The focus of this research is on RTK which can obtain a position by 
using Double GPS Receiver where one GPS receiver is placed at a known point from base station 
and the other GPS receiver is placed at a rover station (Sungwoo Moon, et al., 2010). Then both 
GPS receivers receive carrier phase modulation of satellite and have position through radio equips. 
Following the first application of GPS in civil engineering research in 1996, the GPS was 
gradually applied to other fields of engineering. Among the 27 references collected from 1996 to 
2003, 38% used GPS in geo-Environmental detection, 29% used GPS in construction disaster 
 4
system development environment, current survey method, requirements of connected organization, 
system framework and instruction of system design environment. For system development 
environment, Microsoft® Visual Basic®6.0 professional version is used because the software can 
easily be used in Windows NT system. In order to receive data from GPS then data post-process, 
Microsoft® Visual Basic®6.0 contains many functions such as Control, Automation Manager, 
Component Manager and database management tool. 
This section aims to find the shortcomings in the process of pile wharf construction survey by 
interviewing senior managers of contractors in pile wharf construction site. The demands of 
contractors for a target positioning system integrated with GPS technology may be understood. The 
result of construction site interviews can be a foundation of system design. We were able to actually 
tour the automatic pile driving boat and watch the survey process during the construction site 
interviews. During the survey at the construction site, there are two stations in intersection method 
which intersects the correct position then gives instructions to the crane to find a correct position 
for the pile driving boat. The construction crew uses flexible position at the construction site to set 
up the survey station. After setting the station and using the user coordinate system to instrument, 
then proceed with intersection methods. Therefore, the most important thing is that obtaining 
position by manually through intersection method may have low accuracy. 
The initial GPS receiver signal is from transmission RTK survey. During RTK survey, two 
GPS receivers, the base station and the rover station, will receive two points of signal then through 
base station coordinates (Fig4). After getting the correct rover station coordinates, these correct 
coordinates can be linked with the GPS receiver and notebook through RS232. Moreover, the 
correct rover station coordinates can be transformed into a suitable format for the computer through 
Toolbox. GPS original data provides many kinds of output format such as GGK and GGA. 
After the interviews with experts at the pile wharf construction site, the development of a 
target positioning system integrated with GPS technology to carry on RTK Survey can proceed with 
the development of modules for data acquisition, coordinate transformation, target setting, path 
mapping, object zooming and position guidance. 
The data acquisition module aims to receive data from the GPS receiver through R232. During 
the process of RTK, the GPS receiver will continuously receive data from the satellite. The main 
task of the coordinate transformation module is the transformation of coordinates. The system 
collects data, such as longitude, latitude and antenna height from RS232 in GGA string and 
transforms them into a measurement of degree. There are three kinds of code in Taiwan: WGS84, 
TWD97 and TWD67. The most common grid systems in Taiwan include UTM and TM2. The TM2 
is more suitable for application in Taiwan, thus it is the standard tool in Taiwan (Yi-Hsueh Tsai, 
 6
 
 
 ,   
(4) Transform TWD67 curvilinear coordinate to TM-2 grid 
	
 (8) 
N=K0×  (9) 
where 
 
 Semi-major axis of ellipsoid,  Semi-minor axis of ellipsoid 
 ,  
,  
 
,  
 
Finally, the TM-2 grid is put into the path mapping module. The main task of the target setting 
module is to stakeout, so it has to set the target coordinate. The user only needs to fill in the target 
TM-2 grid coordinate and complete the selection of the coordinate system, and then this system will 
map the path following the coordinate format.  
The path mapping module is the most complicated part in this system (Hiam M. Khoury and 
 8
 
Figure 2. Object zooming module 
 10
Using data acquisition module aims to receive data from GPS receiver through R232. During 
the process of RTK, GPS receiver will continuously receive data through satellite. The main task of 
the coordinate transformation module is the transformation of coordinates. The system collects data, 
such as longitude, latitude and antenna height from RS232 in GGA string and transforms them into 
the measurement of degree(fig4). 
Path mapping module is the most complicated part in this system. The main function is to 
immediately map the GPS path, which represents the engineer equips’ future path. Through expert 
interviews, we found that contractors believe that the point of target module should be used as 
center in mapping to make the system more visual(Fig 5). 
 
 
Figure 4. Signal transmission process 
 
 12
to maintain the optimal visible scope of the engineer equips path on screen. The positioning of the 
position guidance module should coordinate with the setting of induction area. The induction area 
refers to the users’ maximum margin of error. 
 
4. INSTALLATION AND MEASURED 
The case used in this paper is a pier construction project at Taipei Port in Taiwan. Taipei port 
is one of four international commercial ports in Taiwan, measuring equipment installation as 
follow:  
 
Figure6. Base station configure near coastal 
 14
 
Figure 9. Find some place to setup rover station 
 
Figure 10. Rover station setup and initialization 
 16
 
Figure13. Control drag ship  
 
Figure14. Drag ship dragging pile driving boat to target 
 18
5. SYSTEM EVALUATION AND DISCUSSION 
 
The on-site test was carried out in National Taiwan University main campus. The Department 
of Agricultural Chemistry hall and Department of Forestry and Resource Conservation hall were set 
as the two test points. After choose, fallow survey process to observe ephemeris to decide survey 
date and time, and then begin on-site test in selected date.  
In this test department of forestry and resource conservation hall (TW03) as base station and 
the rover station has been installed near base station to reduce initialization time(Fig 17). After 
initialization, remove controller and connect GPS receiver and computer with appropriative 
transmission line through Port1 and RS232 port, and then open the target positioning system to 
position target (Fig18).  
 
Figure 17. On-site test points layout 
 20
(2) Position precision: Adopting the traditional marine position method, the position precision 
is about 20cm; adopting target positioning system, the position precision is about 1cm or less. 
(3) Human resource: Adopting the traditional marine position method requires positioning 
through intersection method, therefore two persons are needed. Adopting target positioning system, 
one or less person is needed for positioning. 
 
6. CONCLUSION AND DISCUSSION 
During survey of references, expert interview and system development, a lot of difficulties 
have to be overcome. In the initial stage, communication with construction crew is difficult, 
because the cognition difference of GPS and coordinate system is large. In middle stage, operation 
of GPS instrument and choosing of survey time is difficult for people who have never had contact 
with GPS. In later stage, how to translate coordinate and how to transmit data from GPS to system 
are big difficulties and how to reduce noise to recognize from GPS accurately is another difficulty. 
This research adopts single frequency GPS then achieve highly effective from on-site test, so 
adopting latest GPS measurements would get better results. After these difficulties be solved, this 
research advance conclusion: 
1. This research integrates data transmission between software interface and hardware 
interface, and translates coordinate form satellite to TM-2 grid through a series of translation 
process. 
2. This research develops target positioning system integrated with GPS technology to carry 
on RTK Survey with Visual Basic 6. The system can solve problems like wasting too much time 
and human resource in positioning of traditional marine position method in pile wharf. Moreover, it 
can also enhance position precision. 
3. The system allows the users with friendly interface to master the position and directions of 
engineer equip, and even more, reduce position time. 
4. Cooperating with present automation engineer equips, this target position system not only 
enhances construction automation performance but also enhances maritime engineer informatizing 
and Technological degree. 
After on-site testing the target positioning system proved to satisfy the demand of pile wharf 
position, but in order to perfect the system,   below are suggestions for follow-up researches: 
1. This research only discusses 2D position, suggest follow-up research consider 3D position 
to let system more visualization, reality and increase user operability. 
2. This research only focus in pile wharf survey section, suggest follow-up research consider 
automatic control function to integrate target positioning system and engineer equips automatic 
國科會補助出席國際會議報告 
                                          100  年   07   月   20   日 
報告人姓名  曾惠斌 服務機關名稱（請註明系所）及職稱
國立台灣大學土木工程學系
教授 
會議名稱 
（ 中文 ）第 28 屆營建自動化與機器人研討會 
（ 英文 ）28th International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in 
Construction (ISARC2011) 
會議期間及地點 自 2011 年 06 月 29 日至 2011 年 07 月 03 日(韓國首爾) 
發表論文題目 
1. Development and Testing of Integrated Bridge Disaster Prevention and 
Management Platform 
2. Developing Bridge Monitor Platform Using GPS and Communication 
Technology 
3. Development of an Innovative Bridge Monitoring System 
for Multi Disasters 
 
一、參加會議經過 
  於 2011年 06月 29日至 2011年 07月 02日 28th International Symposium on Automation and 
Robotics in Construction (ISARC2011)在韓國首爾舉行，本次會議於 Imperial Palace Hotel 舉
辦。國際營建自動化與機器人研討會（ISARC）已有二十多年的歷史，每年皆來有自世界各
國相關學術以及應用領域之專家參與，並透過論文發表與海報展覽等方式提供與會者學術交
流以及合作之平台。此次會議所發表的論文共計有 294 篇，共分 25 類之主題(本次投稿的是
SensingTechnology for Construction and Maintenance)，包含 34 個議程(圖 1)與多項交流活動，
會議中每天在早上皆安排有 Keynote 演講，接下來到晚上前將時間劃分為三個部份各約 105 
分鐘，每一個時段安排有 6 場的平行的論文發表場次，每一場裡面約有 7 篇文章進行發表，
而本次投稿獲得接受之文章： 
1. Development and Testing of Integrated Bridge Disaster Prevention and 
Management Platform （由本人做 oral 簡報） 
2. Developing Bridge Monitor Platform Using GPS and Communication Technology 
3. Development of an Innovative Bridge Monitoring System for Multi Disasters 
 
圖 2 研討會參與過程照片 
 
圖 3 研討會參與過程照片 
 
三、建議 
  國際間針對各種專業領域不乏有多位知名學者，在交流的過程中，可從提問與答辯間，
解答許多的疑惑；於會議中，與各國學者之相互交流，讓我了解到許多橋樑各種行為分析評
估知識，以及監控平台發展相關之軟、硬體與關鍵技術、微型製造技術等，並了解目前所使
Development and Testing of Integrated Bridge Disaster Prevention and 
Management Platform 
 
H. P. Tserng1*, S. H. Ju2, K. C. Chang1, C. W. Feng2, C. T. Lin3, J. Y. Han1, K.W. Weng1, N. H. Peng1, H. C. 
Chung1, P. S. Chang1 
 
1Department of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
2Department of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan University, Tainan, Taiwan 
3 Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Tainan, Taiwan 
* Corresponding author (hptserng@ntu.edu.tw) 
 
Abstract: In recent years, global warming leads rainfall intensity stronger than before. Therefore, bridge management 
requires a reliable monitoring platform in current, to monitoring of bridge piers based on the variations of safety and 
river erosion, can be timely warming of the bridge damage, achieving the maintenance of bridges safety in the flood. In 
view of bridge design and construction technology, the bridge engineering technology has matured, however monitoring 
and maintenance are important factors in the safety of the bridge. And increased with time, no matter how good 
engineering, high safety factor and then the bridge has aged, the incidence of deterioration, plus traffic overload, the 
role of erosion and earthquakes, needs more strengthen its safety monitoring and maintenance to ensure safety. 
Having this in mind, maintaining the safety of the bridge, this research focus on Chung Sha Bridge on Zhuo-shui River. 
This research installed accelerometer and inclinometer with the correction of the GPS function around substructure and 
superstructure of bridge, figured out the bridge scour monitoring technologies associated with natural frequency. And 
used wireless sensor network to monitor bridge disaster, in the end show whole monitor information on web-based 
system which developed by this research. This research also through long-term monitoring of scour erosion depth and 
model parameters such as vibration frequency to derive a similar formula. In addition, by way of remote monitoring 
management platform also improve the accuracy of the bridge monitor, it provide engineers, bridge maintenance unit a 
more efficient tool. 
 
Key words: GPS, Wireless Sensor Network, Bridge monitoring, Scour, Management Information System (MIS) 
 
1. Introduction 
In Taiwan, rivers and tributary streams are densely 
covered, and twenty thousand highway bridges is located 
in different counties. As bridges take an important role in 
traffic, the damage of bridge by scouring not only 
threatens to the safety of users, but also may breakdown 
traffic then cause resident locked. Therefore, providing 
engineers and governmental institution to monitor the 
level of bridge scour instantly is a crucial issue. Thus, the 
purpose of this research project is to build up a 
web-based scour monitoring system, in order to instantly 
monitor the scour degree at the bridge’s piers.  
In this monitoring system, this research project installs 
sensors on the bridge, and transmits the data from 
sensors to a database server through a 5G antenna device 
and Internet. In the database server, a dynamic 
mathematical model is developed to estimate the scour 
degree at bridge’s piers based on the data from the 
sensors. Finally, the result from the mathematical model 
will be uploaded online, and engineers could make 
suggestions based on the result.  
The remainder of this paper are shown as follows: In 
Section 2, the bridge scour monitoring system is 
explained in detail. Section 3 shows the fundamental 
descriptions of the bridge which is chosen to test the 
scour monitoring system in this project. Finally, the 
conclusion is shown in Section 4. 
 
2. The Scour Monitoring System 
Fig. 1 shows the process of the scour monitoring system 
in this project. There are 4 steps in this system: 
 
RJ45 format, then transmits it via 5G antenna device and 
Internet. The device maintaining is also a consideration 
in this step, thus we set these devices in a metallic box to 
resist rain and wind. Moreover, the metallic box is with a 
ventilation design at below to avoid overheating in the 
computer. 
 
Fig. 4 The coordinator box diagram 
Step 3: 
 After preliminarily processed the data, the 
computer in the coordinator box will transmit these data 
to the 5G antenna device (shown as Fig. 5). The 5G 
antenna device will send the data signal from the bridge 
to the control room in a nearby police station. And then 
the computer in the control room will transmit the data to 
database server in the research institution through 
Internet. There are several advantages of setting the 
control room in a police station. First, the police station 
opens 24 hours; data collection and devices maintenance 
can be done in every time. Second, when disaster 
occurred, the police station can be a local commend 
center. Immediately, the decision maker can decide to 
evacuate, block the bridge, or execute other necessary 
actions in advance based on the information from this 
system. 
 
Fig. 5 the 5G antenna device 
Another choice of transferring the data from the 
coordinator box on the bridge to the database server is 
via 3.5G high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA) 
technology. However, even though the 3.5G network has 
been developed for years in Taiwan, the stability of 
signal is still unsatisfying. Thus, this project chooses the 
5G antenna device and cable network to guarantee the 
quality of data transmission. 
Step 4: 
 In the database server, a dynamic mathematical 
model is developed to estimate the scour degree at 
bridge’s piers based on the data from the sensors. This 
model firstly calculates the vibrating frequency of the 
bridge by the data from sensors on bridge. According to 
the vibrating frequency of the bridge, then this model 
could estimate the scour degree. Finally, the result from 
the mathematical model will be shown on the web page 
(shown as Fig. 6) of a scour monitoring platform built on 
the database server, and engineers could make 
suggestions based on the result. 
 
Fig. 6 The web page of the scour monitoring platform 
 
3. Fundamental Descriptions of Experimental Bridge 
This project will carry out a test of scour monitoring 
system on Chung Sha Bridge (as shown in Fig. 7), which 
is located in DouNan Town of YunLin County in 
Taiwan.  
 
Fig. 7 Chung Sha Bridge 
 
  
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：曾惠斌 計畫編號：98-2221-E-002-183-MY2 
計畫名稱：GPS 即時施工監控系統之建置-以海事工程打樁作業為例 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 3 1 50% 
GPS 即時施工監控
系統之建置-以海
事工程打樁作業
為例(期末報告) 
極端氣候下複合
性災害防治之研
究-整合 GPS 及通
訊光電技術於橋
梁防災監測平台
研發計畫-期中研
究報告 
專案品質安衛環
綜合績效評估系
統之建置-期末研
究報告 
研討會論文 1 1 30% 
篇 
2011 (第 15 屆) 
營建工程與管理
學術研討會：1篇
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 0 30% 資料及文獻蒐集 1名。 
博士生 4 0 60% 
其中二名只有二
至五個月補助其
於管理方法及平
台模組整理，全年
一名於GPS整合開
發，半年一名於資
訊平台及方法。 
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國外 論文著作 期刊論文 6 1 30% 篇 SCI 期刊論文(部
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數   
 
