lens array, micro lens array, lenticular imaging, 
stereoscopic imaging 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫精簡報告 
 
即時立體影像擷取與顯示技術之研究  
Real-time three-dimensional image capture and display 
technique 
 
計畫編號：100-2221-E-451-007- 
執行期限：100 年 08 月 01 日至 101 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：張冀青 
計畫參與人員：許民宗、林正哲、蔡炳坤 
 
摘要 
本計畫藉由探討 3D 立體顯示原理與影像製作方式
及網版印刷技術，應用數位全像顯微技術實施微光學元
件的檢測(分析其品質與規格)，藉以解決目前多視角之
3D 立體影像擷取，以及顯示技術所面臨之影像處理瓶
頸。本研究計畫成果區分二大部份，第一部份以立體影
像擷取所需元件柱狀透鏡陣列(LLA)製成與最佳化條件
之測試為主，並利用本實驗室團隊開發的數位全像顯微
術實施微光學元件的檢測工作，藉以分析其品質與規
格；第二部份是利用以 LLA 之立體顯示方式為基礎，改
善繁瑣的影像擷取及軟體編輯過程，以 LLA 元件組同時
進行光學分割及堆疊影像，構成即時立體實物 3D 成像
系統。 
 
關鍵詞：3D 成像、數位全像顯微術、柱狀透鏡陣列、 微
透鏡陣列、柱狀透鏡成像、立體成像 
ABSTRACT 
This work proposes the concept and underlying theory 
for real-time 3D image capture and wide field of view 
reconstruction of real object and its applications in 
digital holographic display (DHD) in the near future. 
In first part of this study, we propose a novel approach 
to a 3D stereoscopic imaging based on the theory of 
lenticular stereoscopic imaging to improve the capture 
image quality. In this approach we employ an 
ultra-high pixel array camera or CCD camera with 
micro elements, lenticular lens array (LLA) or micro 
lens array (MLA), to directly capture the image of real 
object. The advantage is easy to combine TFT-LCD and 
the ability to overcome the constraints in a 
conventional lenticular imaging technique that 
employs screen printing. We also use the digital 
holographic microscopy to evaluate the micro element, 
LLAs, developed by ourselves using screen printing 
for optimization. In the second part of this study, we 
tried to apply the proposed novel real-time 3D 
stereoscopic imaging scheme to digital holographic 
micro structure imaging. Therefore, a precise 
three-dimensional description of the object can be 
obtained digitally by a digital camera in real time. The 
advantage of our system is not only capable of 
real-time recording, measuring microstructures, and 
three-dimensionally display in real space. 
Keywords: 3D image, digital holographic microscopy, 
lenticular lens array, micro lens array, 
lenticular imaging, stereoscopic imaging 
一、前言 
在 1908 年 Gabriel M. Limppmann 提出 Integral 
Photography 立體法，將此技術應用在成像上，後經改
良以柱狀透鏡陣列(Lenticula Lens Array, LLA)的方式
來產生立體成像，生產方法是以製作模具再用射出或熱
壓成型方式完成，也有以網版印刷方式來製作類似 LLA
及微透鏡陣列(Micro Lens Array, MLA)產生立體成
像。網版印刷屬於目前五大印刷版式的一種，在所有版
式中以網版印刷印出墨膜厚度最厚，同時較易改變控制
其油墨厚度，本研究就是利用此特性並用特殊透明油墨
 2
此架構配合本研究自製特殊規格之 LLA (如厚度、
曲率、折射率、Pitch 值及可視角度等)實施測試及探討，
另結合特殊鏡頭研討(廣視角、大孔徑、變焦範圍及光圈
設計等測試)及高畫素單眼相機擷取，以達 3D 立體顯示
之最佳條件。 
考量鏡頭對焦及需擷取較遠及較大之影像，並解決
感光度及曝光度不足之窘境，我們利用單眼數位相機
(Cannon EOS 350D, 22.2mm*14.8mm CMOS 約為 800
萬有效像數)直接擷取成像於 LLA 焦平面附近之影像，
擷取影像如圖 7 所示；以此方式擷取經 LLA 編碼之交錯
影像，可透過手動對焦、調整光圈及手動曝光方式取得
較清晰之結果，但因視角與立體感仍額外受限於所增設
之透鏡組，且原相機鏡頭之視角、光圈、孔徑大小及感
光元件(CCD 或 CMOS)之解析度皆會使所呈現之立體效
果受到影響。 
  
圖 7 以數位相機直接擷取成像於 LLA 焦平面附近之影
像示意圖。 
    經由上述的成像系統，所擷取的影像經由 LLA 所分
割得影像如圖 7 所示。為便於分析，我們實際將背景除
去，明顯發現經 LLA 編碼之交錯影像除了正視影像外，
左右視角之影像同時被切割分布在相對不同之位置，如
圖 8 所示，但美中不足的是各視角之影像強度不均，以
正視影像光強度最強，經探討其原因除與前方增設之透
鏡組有關外，亦與相機鏡頭之視角、光圈、孔徑大小有
關。  
  
圖 7 以數位相機直接擷取成
像於 LLA 焦平面之影像。 
圖 8 擷取成像於LLA焦平面
附近之去背影像。 
四、分析與討論 
最後，改變相機擷取之位置及角度，可清楚擷取經
LLA 編碼之交錯之正視及左右視角之影像，如圖 9 所
示，針對相機鏡頭做一些特殊設計(如廣視角、光圈設計
等)及測試，設計如圖 10 所示，有效改進擷取各視角時
之影像清晰度及亮度不一致之問題，以達 3D 擷取影像
之最佳化狀況。 
   
圖 9 數位相機以不同視角直接擷取成像於 LLA 焦平面
附近之去背影像結果。 
 
 
圖 10 相機鏡頭改裝示意圖。 
用網版印刷印製 LLA 板，現存一些問題及特性參數
待研究與精進，如透明程度、製程穩定度、最佳直徑僅
達 127μm、透鏡的完整性不佳(有缺陷)及透鏡附著度及
耐磨不佳等問題，且用網版印刷印製 LLA 板的參數與射
出或滾壓 LLA 板品質有差異，須做多次測試。 
立體影像擷取之相機改裝上，除需高解析度之單眼
數為相機外，必須配合特殊規格之 LLA(如厚度、曲率、
折射率、Pitch 值及可視角度等)實施測試及探討，另結
合特殊鏡頭研討(廣視角、大孔徑、變焦範圍及光圈設計
等測試)及高畫素單眼相機擷取，以達 3D 立體顯示之最
佳條件；所以可能面臨之困難在於相機改裝技術，如何
將自製之 LLA 與相機之感光元件緊密結合，且需克服可
能形成之像差及對位問題，另擷取鏡頭之設計及製作不
易（以市售單眼廣角鏡頭規格為主，或協請專業廠商協
助研製），為後續研發所需優先解決之問題。 
五、結論 
    本研究計畫嘗試設計出一個簡易且能即時擷取立體
影像及顯示之方式，利用以 LLA(或 MLA)之立體顯示方
式為基礎，改善繁瑣的影像擷取及軟體編輯過程，藉由
LLA(或 MLA)光學成像方式以高畫素數位相機擷取編輯
影像，並配合廣視角鏡頭設計，以達成多視角之立體影
像擷取，建立即時多視角立體影像擷取以及立體顯示之
機制。根據本研究計畫所研擬的方案及採取的步驟，完
成的工作項目為︰ 
(1)微光學元件重要參數支取得：依據本研究群對 3D
立體顯示領域所具備知識與近年來對立體影像製作、
立體印刷及網版印刷技術了解與研究成果，以及與相
關業界有完善之學術合作經驗，在有較佳之技術與設
備下，可利用網版印刷達成快速且低成本，且製作多
樣且不同型式之 LLA 與 MLA 等微光學元件，並運用
本研究團隊過去三年研究開發完成的數位全像顯微技
術設備，進行完成這些微光元件重要參數之檢測。 
 4
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                               101 年 4 月 30 日 
報告人 
姓 名 
 
張 冀 青
 
服務機關
及 
職 稱
明 道 大 學 光 電 暨 能 源 工 程 學 系
 
教 授 兼 任 研 發 長
時 間 
會 議 
地 點 
2012/04/16-2012/04/19 
 
比利時布魯塞爾市 
本會核定
補助文號
 
100-2221-E-451-007- 
會 議 
名 稱 
 (中文) 2012 歐洲光電子學國際會議 
 (英文) Photonics Europe 2012 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 任意微步進相位數位全像顯微術 
 (英文) Arbitrary micro phase-step digital holographic microscopy 
一、參加會議經過與心得 
    本次會議期間從 2012 年 04 月 16 日開始至 2012 年 04 月 19 日結束，為期四天。大會議程包含
18 個 Technical Conferences，3 個 Hot Topics 系列，共有 7 個 Plenary Talks，幾乎涵蓋了所有光電
領域。另外還有接近百家的光電廠商配合本次會議參展。本人參加的 Technical conference 為：
『Optics, Photonics and Digital Technologies foe Multimedia Applications』。 
    第一天（16 日）上午，參加「Hot Topics I」的 Plenary Talks，分別由法國 Univ. de Franche-Comt
è的 Mudley 教授發表非線性光學的新突破:新的波導、新的非線性特性，以及超快科學的新方向。
接著，是由塞普勒斯奈米光子研究實驗室的 Kyriacos Kalli 助理教授報告下一代的光纖感測器，Kalli
博士對光纖感測器的過去、現在，以及未來做了非常完整的報告。下午則參觀各國廠商產品與設備
展，同時也聆聽廠商的新產品的發表會。 
    第二天（17 日）上午，除聆聽『Optics, Photonics and Digital Technologies for Multimedia 
Applications』會議針對「影像品質強化」與「高動態範圍成像技術」的論文發表，也選擇了聆聽
『Potonics for Solar Energy』會議部分論文發表。傍晚則選擇參加「Hot Topics II」的 Plenary Talks，
首先，是由 Psaltis 針對 Optofluidics 應用於太陽能做了精闢的演講，強調可將生醫光電領域結合
光學與流體學，應用於太陽能發電系統。Psaltis 首度提出這個概念，引起現場聽眾熱烈的反應。其
次是華盛頓大學 Lihong Wang 教授提出聲光斷層掃瞄術的新突破，他強調超音波技術已可超越光
學擴散的限制了，該技術將為未來的顯微技術成像產逞生革命性的突破。會中則利用空檔參觀各國
廠商產品與設備展，同時也聆聽廠商的新產品的發表會，傍晚則舉辦的學生論文獎頒獎典禮。 
    第三天（18 日）上午，除聆聽『Optics, Photonics and Digital Technologies foe Multimedia 
Applications』會議針對「感測及顯示器」等相關論文發表，下午則是「影像處裡應用」等相關論
文發表。晚上則進行壁報式論文發表共有來自各地共二十五篇文章，會場進行為時兩個小時的壁報
式的論文發表。本研究團隊的研究成果被安排在此時段展示，並與參與本次會議的會專家學者進行
意見交流。展示過程中，有學者建議本研究團隊應該針對微步進項位部份須進行更深入的探討，我
們就他們的建議做完整的探討與實驗驗證。 
 3
Arbitrary micro phase-step digital holographic microscopy 
 
Chi-Ching Changa* and Min-Tzung Shiub 
a Dept. Electro-Optical & Energy Engineering, Ming Dao University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 b School of Defense Science, National Defense University, Taoyuan 33509, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
*E-mail address:chichang@mdu.edu.tw 
ABSTRACT 
This paper applies the Mach-Zehnder interferometer with an objective lens and an offset lens to magnify the wavefront of an 
object image, while compensating for the quadratic phase caused by the objective lens and achieving digital holographic 
microscopy. 1) The single-exposure method and simple arbitrary micro phase step (AMPS) approach are applied to suppress 
the zero-order and conjugate image interferences caused by holograph reconstruction. Through this process the best conditions 
for conjugate imaging suppression can be identified via the relative light intensity distribution and noise suppression of the 
numerically reconstructed object wavefront. 
Keywords: digital holography, digital holographic microscopy, single exposure, arbitrary micro phase step 
 
INTRODUCTION 
The holographic technology concept was first developed by British scientist Gabor in 1948.2) This in-line holography 
technology was originally referred to as wavefront reconstruction. Holographic technology records the object wave amplitude 
and phase distribution simultaneously, so that the object wavefront truthfully reflects the morphology of the original object 
reconstructed on the image plane. Garber's intention was to improve the resolution of the electron microscope.  However, due 
to the limitation of the coherent light source length, his experiment could only be conducted and observed in an in-line 
structure, which resulted in interference among the object's reconstructed image, its conjugate image and the zero-order 
diffraction caused by the reference beam penetration.  
Due to the fast improvement in digital camera and digital image processing technology, digital recording and 
reconstruction of a numerical hologram known as digital holography (DH)3)  develops rapidly. A problem encountered in 
digital holography has been twin-image blurring during numerical reconstruction. The method for suppressing such blurring 
mechanism as proposed by Yamaguchi and Zhang4, 5) has led to substantial advances in phase shifting digital holography. 
However, this method is only useful for suppressing the twin-images formed during numerical reconstruction and is not ideal 
for precise phase shifting in a serial, special and stable shifting procedure.  
Arbitrary phase step approach has been much studied. Chen et al.6) discussed such an approach for numerical wavefront 
reconstruction. Their experiments indicate only two digital holograms and a simple estimation procedure are required for 
twin-image suppression and numerical reconstruction. 
This study applies the single-exposure method and simple arbitrary micro phase-step (AMPS) approach are applied to 
suppress the zero-order and conjugate image interferences caused by holographic reconstruction. a simple numerical 
calculation the information was carried by the object wave can be effectively enhanced and thereby the background noise can 
be suppressed to optimize the image reconstruction effect. 
 
1. CONJUGATE IMAGE SUPPRESSION VIA ARBITRARY MICRO PHASE STEP (AMPS)  
Let 1HI  and 2HI  be the digital holograms that record the object wave interference before and after the reference wave phase 
delay of ϕΔ . Use the zero-order term noise cancellation technique to calculate ' 1HI  and ' 2HI : 
2 2' * *
1 1= - - = + =2 cos ( - )H H R O R O R O O R O RI I a aψ ψ ψ ψ ψ ψ ϕ ϕ                                                    (1) 
' * *
2 = exp (- ) + exp( ) =2 cos ( - - )H R O R O O R O RI i i a aψ ϕ ψ ψ ϕ ψ ϕ ϕ ϕΔ Δ Δ                                                
(2) 
For a known ϕΔ , multiply Eq. (2) with exp( )j ϕ− Δ and subtract it with Eq. (1) to obtain the wave field information of 
the object wave: 
( ) ( ) ( ){ }
[ ]
' '
1 2
** * *
*
-exp(- )
= + -exp(- ) exp + exp
= 1-exp(- 2 )
Δ
⎡ ⎤Δ Δ Δ⎣ ⎦
Δ
H H
O R O R O R O R
O R
I i I
i i i
i
ϕ
ψ ψ ψ ψ ϕ ψ ψ ϕ ψ ψ ϕ
ϕ ψ ψ  
 5
The position where the incidence enters the medium is used as the starting point to calculate the optical path L of the 
length h: 
    
( )' 0' 'd d= h- cos n ncos cosL θ θθ θ⎡ ⎤× − × + ×⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦                                                               (6) 
Assume the refractive index of the air (n0) to be unity, with two different incident angles θ1 and θ2, the change of optical 
path can be simplifies as:  
   
( ) ( )' '2 1 2 2 1 1=d ncos cos - ncos cos⎡ ⎤− − −⎣ ⎦L L θ θ θ θ                                                        (7) 
The phase change, Δϕ, can thus be calculate: 
   
( )2 12 −Δ = L Lπϕ λ                                                                               (8) 
By giving the thickness (d) and the refractive index (n) of the glass plate, the magnitude of the phase change (Δϕ) 
resulting from any change in the incident angle can be accurately calculated via Snell’s law of refraction.  Figure 3 
demonstrates the relationship between the incident angle and the phase change of a 177 μm glass plate that has a refractive 
index of 1.52. 
n=1.52, d=177μm
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Incident angle(degree)
Ph
as
e 
ch
an
ge
(r
ad
)
 
Fig. 3. Phase change vs. incident angle. 
To adjust the phase change of the reference wave within 0～π based on this phase object, the incidence angle should be 
controlled within 0°～6°. In addition, a simple AMPS estimation can be used to confirm the control validity.  The phase 
change of the reference wave can thus be well-handled and the best conjugate noise suppression achieved. 
 
3. EXPERIMENTAL ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION 
The experiment is conducted using a Mach-Zehnder setup shown in Fig. 4. An objective lens and a confocal lens are used to 
magnify the object image and perform quadratic phase compensation. A He-Ne laser with a power of 30 mW and a 
wavelength of 632.8 nm is used as the light source. Two λ/2 retarded wave-plates and a polarized beam splitter are adopted to 
adjust the object wave intensity ratio to reference wave. Both waves are collimated as plane waves using a lens and a spatial 
filter. The hologram is recorded using a CCD sensor (Pixera-150SS CCD camera, 1392×1040 pixels, 0.650cm×0.484cm).  
A 1.77 mm glass plate with a refractive index of 1.52 is placed in the path of the reference wave as the phase object (Fig. 
2).  Via rotating the phase object, the phase of the reference wave can be micro-adjusted and thereby its optical path modified. 
The system resolution tests were performed with a Newport resolution target (RES-1) as an object. CCD is used to acquire and 
store the digital image of the interferences of the phase micro-adjusted reference wave and the information magnified object 
wave. The image of the object wave can then be reconstructed and the phase change of the object wave obtained through 
calculation. 
The polarizing beam splitter (PBS) is able to reflect vertical polarizing wave.  To take advantage for easy object control 
to the reference wave intensity ratio, a half-wave plate is placed in front of the PBS to adjust the incidence polarization angle.  
Another half-wave plate in the object wave path behind the PBS allows wave linear polarization adjustment. The reference 
wave is filtered, expanded and collimated into a plane wave through a spatial filter (SF), an iris and a convex lens.  The 
sample is placed in the object wave path and magnified with a 40x objective lens.  A confocal compensation lens is used to 
offset the aberration behind this lens. A non-polarized beam splitter (BS) is then used to split the light for the coaxial 
interference on the CCD. 
 7
[2] Gabor, D., “A new microscopic principle,” Nature,  161, 777-778 (1948). 
[3] Schnars, U. and Juptner, W., “Direct recording of holograms by a CCD target and numerical reconstruction,” Appl. Opt., 
33, 179-181 (1994). 
[4] Yamaguchi, I. and Zhang, T., “Phase-shifting digital holography”, Opt. Lett., 22, 1268–70 (1997). 
[5] Zhang, T. and Yamaguchi, I., “Three-dimensional microscopy with phase-shifting digital holography,” Opt. Lett., 23, 
1221–1213 (1998). 
[6] Chen, G. L., Lin, C. Y., Yau, H. F., Kuo, M. K., and Chang, C. C., “Wavefront reconstruction without twin-image 
blurring by two arbitrary phase step digital holograms,” Opt. Express, 15, 11601-11607 (2007). 
[7] Zhang, Y., Pedrini, G., Osten, W. and Tiziani, H. J., “Reconstruction of in-line digital holography from two intensity 
measurements,” Opt. Lett., 29, 1787-1789 (2004). 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張冀青 計畫編號：100-2221-E-451-007- 
計畫名稱：即時立體影像擷取與顯示技術之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 1 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 2 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
