receiver end of the cellular-phone chip) is in 
desperate demand. To meet the requirement of next-
generation multifunctional cellular-phone 
communication products, the design of LNAs will be 
more compact； however, under high-frequency 
operations, the generated heat from LNAs will 
seriously affect the reliability of the system 
electrical characteristics, and hence the thermal 
effect caused by conventional LNAs will definitely be 
an important issue. At present, most wireless-mobile-
communication R & D teams are targeted at emitter-up 
HBTs； however, the collector-up HBT (very few R & D 
teams went on feasible studies) has the distinct 
features of low-power consumption and small size, and 
it has great application potential in the future as 
well as it is worth developing relevant fabricating 
techniques.  
  This project will continue the optimized design 
research accomplishments, which is supported by the 
2008 NSC grant, and we will take one year to engage 
in ’Characterization and modeling of low-power 
consumption, miniature LNAs with heat-dissipation 
packaging configurations’. This project will be 
focused on conducting thermal characterization on 
successfully fabricated LNAs, and building up novel 
multi-finger, different finger pitches, high-
frequency equivalent thermal-resistance network 
(validated by self-derived formulas together with the 
genetic algorithm) , which is in accordance with 
measured S parameters, so that it can be applied to 
design and implementation of next-generation radio-
frequency system-on-chip (RF SoC). 
  According to results of overall analyses, we will 
further verify all parameters (validated by ANSYS 
software together with direct-measured values) 
relating to the fabrication of low-power consumption 
LNAs, including material thermal characteristics 
parameters (e.g., thermal convection coefficient), 
which are supplied by the industry, and it is 
expected that good heat-dissipation effects will be 
fulfilled as well as the research purpose of 
effective reducing the system thermal resistance will 
 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
低功率消耗微型化低雜訊放大器散熱特性分析與設計 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 98－2221－E－168－033－ 
執行期間： 98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：崑山科技大學電子工程系 
 
計畫主持人：曾憲正 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：張家豪、陳子威、謝宗樺 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，■一年□二年後可公開查
詢 
 
中   華   民   國  99  年  10  月   29  日 
 
 
 3
報告內容：(Journal of Solid State Electronics, Vol 56, pp. 85-88, 2011) 
Article title: A highly-compact packaging design for improving the thermal performance of 
multi-finger InGaP/GaAs collector-up HBTs 
Reference: SSE5637 
Journal title: Solid State Electronics 
Corresponding author: Dr. Hsien-Cheng Tseng 
First author: Dr. Hsien-Cheng Tseng 
Received at Editorial Office: 28-APR-2010 
Article revised: 12-OCT-2010 
Article accepted for publication: 16-OCT-2010 
Publication: Vol. 56, pp. 85-88, 2011 
 
 
A highly-compact packaging design for improving the thermal performance of 
multi-finger InGaP/GaAs collector-up HBTs   
 Hsien-Cheng Tseng* and Jhin-Yuan Chen 
Nanotechnology R & D Center and Department of Electronic Engineering,  
Kun Shan University, Tainan 71003, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Abstract 
  To satisfy the increasing demand for small power amplifiers in advanced cellular phones, we 
have investigated the thermal performance of multi-finger InGaP/GaAs collector-up HBTs with a 
heat-dissipation packaging configuration. The thermal interaction between collector fingers and 
the size effect on the maximum operation temperature within the transistor have been scrutinized. 
In addition, the thermal handling for a stable operation in the device has been optimized through 
the variation of finger pitches. The superior results show that the thickness of the heat-dissipation 
structure can be reduced by more than 35%, and the achieved thermal resistance can be 
effectively improved over 40%. Based on appropriate approaches from the 3-D numerical 
simulation for thickness-adjusting evaluation and the analytical analysis for finger-pitch 
optimization, a highly-compact packaging design is proposed for the miniaturization of 
collector-up HBTs in future mobile communication systems. 
Keywords—Heterojunction bipolar transistor (HBT); packaging design; thermal performance 
PACS: 71.10.－w;71.20.Nr;72.30.+q;85.30.Pq 
 
1. Introduction 
  Microwave heterojunction bipolar transistors (HBTs), which are capable of handling high 
power and can operate at low-power-supply voltages, are attractive candidates for use as active 
components in the dual-band system of power amplifiers (PAs) applications [1]. Recently, the 
tendency is toward higher levels of system integration, especially for cellular-phone 
communication systems [2]. Prevailingly, highly compact HBT-based PAs are demanded to 
promote the development of the system-on-chip (SOC) or system-in-package (SIP) technology. 
The compactness of PAs depends mainly on thermal managing of HBTs. Furthermore, as claimed 
HBT device design employs disordered InGaP lattice-matched to GaAs with an indium 
composition of 0.5. In the heat-dissipation-structure processing procedure, the substrate is thinned 
down to a thickness of 100 μm. As a consequence, the flipside hole is created and then filled with 
plated gold. Heat-dissipation structures ranging from 150 μm to 500 μm have been examined for 
the devices under test. In practice, the achievable dimension is constrained by the ability to fill 
the hole with plated gold. 
Table 1 Material properties used in the thermal analysis 
Layer Material 
Thermal 
Conductivity 
(W/m-k) 
Collector Wiring Alloy with gold 200 
Cap InGaAs 5 
Collector GaAs 46 
Base GaAs 46 
Emitter InGaP 9 
Sub-emitter GaAs 46 
Etch-stop InGaP 9 
PHS With a gold plating 313 
Conductive Epoxy Silver paste 30 
Insulator SiO2 1.5 
S. I. Substrate GaAs 46 
    To make efficient analysis on different configurations, we normalize the thickness of each 
layer by the thickness t, whose typical value is varied from 0.65 μm to 1.5 μm, of the GaAs layer 
which is located upon the etch-stop layer. The heat-dissipation structure is placed directly at the 
flipside of the substrate. The normalized thicknesses of collector, base, emitter, plated 
heat-dissipation structure (PHS), and substrate are 0.8, 0.1, 0.2, 12, and 30 t, respectively. The 
overall dimension of the collector is 4.5 μm × 30 μm. Five different finger-pitch configurations 
(15, 18, 21, 24, and 27 t) are explored in this study, and the most important materials as well as 
their properties used in this thermal analysis are listed in Table 1. 
  In this 3-D finite-element simulation, the device has dimension W × L × t, and each finger is 
subdivided into small elements, of area w × l, to account for the possible temperature variation 
within an individual finger. The steady-state temperature can be calculated from the heat flow 
equation [13]; 
2 2 2
2 2 2   0,
T T T
x y z
                                                      (1) 
and boundary conditions adopted are as follows: 
  0,
 0
x L
T
x 
  ,   0,
 0
y W
T
y 
  , 
1
th
  0
-  ( ,  )
z
TR h x y
z


  ,   Az tT   T ,         (2) 
where Rth is the thermal resistance, h(x, y) is a distribution function of the heat flux, and TA is the 
 5
instability of the device occurs. If the Rth is changed into R’ (=Rth+δRth), the thermal resistance 
ratio ρ is defined as   
th th
'
th th
R R
R R R
                                                    (10)                    
3. Results and discussion 
  The significance of this study is that both the numerical method and the analytical technique 
have been developed to scrutinize thermal behaviors of the C-up HBT. Sequentially, temperature 
profiles based on the finite-element simulation are described first, followed by the analytical 
analysis of the thermal stability from the circuit model. 
3.1. Temperature-distribution calculation from the 3-D finite-element simulation 
  Fig. 2 shows the influence of adjusting the thicknesses of GaAs substrate and PHS layer of the 
C-up HBT with different finger pitches, under identical power dissipation and same boundary 
conditions. The original configuration with a finger pitch of 15 t is treated as the reference 
configuration for which the thicknesses of the PHS layer and GaAs substrate are denoted by tp 
and ts, respectively [5]. Also, the maximum temperature is normalized to the junction temperature 
of the reference configuration. To miniaturize the heat-dissipation design, it is necessary to reduce 
the thicknesses of PHS layer and GaAs substrate. In Fig. 2(a), we observe that a thinner GaAs 
substrate results in better thermal performance of the device. This is as expected because the 
thermal conductivity of GaAs substrate is much lower than that of PHS layer.  
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2(a) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2(b) 
  On the contrary, as shown in Fig. 2(b), a thicker PHS layer with fast heat conduction may lead 
to a better thermal stability of the heat-dissipation structure. In this thickness-adjusting analysis, 
noticeably, the proposed heat-dissipation packaging configuration can achieve the same thermal 
performance by decreasing 35% thickness of the substrate as well as 37.5% thickness of the PHS 
layer. Accordingly, it is obvious that the PHS layer and the conductive epoxy constitute the major 
 7
 9
thermal interference between collector fingers. By taking into account of Eqs. (8) to (10), the 
thermal-resistance value of each transistor was extracted by using the dependence of collector 
current on base-emitter voltage, with the collector-emitter voltage as a variation parameter. For 
conventional HBTs, this measurement method, which is suitable for the C-up HBT structure with 
abrupt and high base doping, may not be accurate enough because of the negative differential 
resistance (NDR). However, assessments suggest that the NDR has not affected the results of our 
measurement due to the employment of heat-dissipation packaging structure in the fabricated 
device. 
  According to the aforementioned analysis, a direct comparison between measured data and 
calculated values, we have demonstrated that the reduction in the thermal resistance by this 
highly-compact packaging design, and consequently the thermally stable operation in the 
multi-finger C-up HBT can be expanded. To extend the thermally stable operation in the 
multi-finger C-up HBT with optimized finger pitches, which is suitable for the miniaturization of 
the PAs, a further reduction in the thermal resistance is indispensable to the C-up HBT.  
4. Conclusions 
  Via the finite-element simulation for thickness-adjusting evaluation and the analytical analysis 
for finger-pitch optimization, we propose a highly-compact heat-dissipation packaging 
configuration, filled with thermally and electrically conductive materials, for multi-finger C-up 
HBTs. The validation of the approach is justified on the InGaP/GaAs C-up structure with 
different finger pitches, and the results demonstrate that the overall compactness can be improved 
over 35% as well as the thermal resistance can be reduced by more than 40 % compared to prior 
works. This design offers a more effective heat-transfer means in the C-up HBT for the 
high-efficiency wireless communication system with lower power consumption. 
Acknowledgements 
This work is supported in part by the National Science Council (NSC), Taiwan, ROC, under 
Contract NSC 98-2221-E-168-033. The authors would like to thank technical support from the 
AWSC and the ITRI. 
References 
[1] Chen P, Hsin YT, Welty RJ, Asbeck PM, Pierson RL, Zampardi PJ, Ho WJ, Ho MCV, Chang 
MF. Application of GaInP/GaAs DHBT’s to power amplifiers for wireless communications. 
IEEE Trans Microwave Theory Tech 1999;47:1433-8. 
[2] Megahed M, Egomepe E, Ayvazian M, Glasbrener M. Design considerations for single 
package radio TM (SPR) solution for EGSM/DCS dual band cellular phones. IEEE MTT-S 
Int Microwave Symp 2003:1707-10. 
[3] Kroemer H. Heterostructure bipolar transistors and integrated circuits. Proc IEEE 
1982;70:13-25. 
[4] Stenzel R, Würfl J, Richter E, Pigorsch C, Klix W. Simulation of influence of heat removal on 
power gains of heterojunction bipolar transistor. In: 22nd Workshop on Compound 
Semiconductor Devices and Integrated Circuits; 2008. p. 53-4. 
[5] Osone Y, Mochizuki K, Tanaka K. Thermal performance of collector-up HBTs for small 
high-power amplifiers with a novel thermal via structure underneath the HBT fingers. IEEE 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                       98  年  12  月  1  日 
報告人姓名 曾憲正 服務機構
及職稱 
崑 山 科 技 大 學 電子工程系
專任副教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
98.11.25 ~ 98.11.28 
中國 陜西省西安市 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 98-2221-E-168-033 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2009 電子元件與固態電路國際會議 
 (英文) 2009 IEEE Int’l Conf. on Electron Devices & Solid-State Circuits 
        (2009 IEEE EDSSC)  
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 
 (英文)An In-Depth Study on the Fabrication of 1055-1064 nm    
       Multi-Quantum-Well and Super-Lattice Laser Diodes 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
由桃園搭機直飛前往中國陝西省西安市出席 2009 電子元件與固態電路國際會議，今年
共計有韓國、香港、新加坡、大陸、歐洲、亞洲、美洲等國家代表於本次會議中發表有
關電子元件及固態電路之原創性學術研究成果論文。 
二、與會心得 
本人於今年電子元件與固態電路國際會議發表一篇論文，希望藉以將國科會贊助下在上
集極型異質電晶體低雜訊放大器封裝設計方面的研究成果，讓全球積體電路及電子元件
封裝技術領域相關學者了解與參考，進而提高台灣之電子元件封裝技術學術地位；另一
方面，也經由此次會議得知目前全球固態電路及電子元件封裝技術領域相關學者之研究
概況，作為未來研究參考。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
無。 
四、建議 
建請國科會提供足夠經費參加大型國際學術論文發表會議。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Proceedings of The 2009 IEEE International Conference on Electron Devices & 
Solid-State Circuits ( 2009 IEEE EDSSC 會議論文集)，包括全部於會議發表之論文內容。
六、其他 
 
 

其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
(1) 2008.9.10~9.13 大陸「黑龍江大學」邀請與本校行政首長前往進行學術訪
問，並洽談合作事宜 。 
(2) 深入規劃與從事三項研究：A.低功率消耗微型化低雜訊放大器散熱特性分
析與設計 (國科會計畫，執行中)，迄今已有相關國際期刊論文 3 篇(其中已發
表 2篇，已接受 1篇)、已發表相關國際研討會論文 3篇，相關國內研討會論文
2篇。B.半導體雷射特性分析 (97 年工研院分包學界研究計畫，已結案)，迄今
已發表相關國際期刊論文 1 篇、國際研討會論文 (IEEE) 3 篇，國內研討會論
文 1篇。C.節能行動充電器研製 (98 崑山科大跨領域商品開發專案計劃，專利
申請中) 。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
