traditional client-server architecture. However, many 
digital contents, such as e-books, which do not get 
permission to be copied or delivered, are privately 
spread by uploading to servers or P2P networks. The 
piracy issue seriously hurts license 
owners‘ deserved profits and potential market. For 
this reason, digital rights management (DRM) is 
considered as a general preventive measure to avoid 
copyright infringement. However, a conventional DRM 
system is only suitable for client-server 
architecture, and its implementation on distributed 
P2P network would be quite difficult. Although some 
researchers have proposed some systems combining DRM 
with P2P network, the effect is limited. For 
constructing a reliable transaction platform, we 
construct a DRM mechanism which combines traceable 
and protecting DRM mechanism.  
This research plans to develop a novel traceable and 
fair transaction mechanism which not against the 
sharing purpose of P2P networks and protecting 
digital rights of digital contents. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Peer-to-Peer networks, digital rights management, 
information security 
 
 2 
 
Abstract 
In recent years, more and more people use Internet and with the improvements of 
communication technology, information-sharing trends has surged over Internet. 
Although the number of digital files which are transmitted on Internet has rapidly grown, 
most of the Internet environments haven’t implemented an effective mechanism to 
prevent unauthorized file distribution. Therefore, we must propose an effective, secure, 
and fair transaction platform for file sharing. 
Peer-to-peer networks have become the main stream of file-sharing platform by 
means of its distribution features to overcome the bottleneck problem in traditional 
client-server architecture. However, many digital contents, such as e-books, which do 
not get permission to be copied or delivered, are privately spread by uploading to 
servers or P2P networks. The piracy issue seriously hurts license owners' deserved 
profits and potential market. For this reason, digital rights management (DRM) is 
considered as a general preventive measure to avoid copyright infringement. However, a 
conventional DRM system is only suitable for client-server architecture, and its 
implementation on distributed P2P network would be quite difficult. Although some 
researchers have proposed some systems combining DRM with P2P network, the effect 
is limited. For constructing a reliable transaction platform, we construct a DRM 
mechanism which combines traceable and protecting DRM mechanism.  
This research plans to develop a novel traceable and fair transaction mechanism 
which not against the sharing purpose of P2P networks and protecting digital rights of 
digital contents.  
 
Keywords: Peer-to-Peer networks, digital rights management, information security 
 
 
 
   
 4 
 
forwarders who assist in forwarding the digital contents. 3) Guarantees the fair of 
transaction. Finally, 4) Users can use their digital content freely by themselves, but 
cannot share to others for free. 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Some technologies and 
literature reviews are described in chapter 2. Our proposed system is introduced in 
chapter 3. The analysis and comparison are explained in chapter 4. The conclusion is 
presented in chapter 5. The future work is given in chapter 6. 
 
   
 6 
 
Before publishing the digital content on Internet, the content owner encrypts it into a 
protected format, then transfer protected content to the file server, and license to the 
authorize server. The authorize server is a management center that handles consumers’ 
transaction. For playing or executing the protected content, the content requester needs 
to pay for the right and then receive the license from the authorize server. Finally, the 
authorize server sends license to the content requester. 
 
 
Figure 1:  DRM System 
 
2.1.2 Security Requirement 
In the P2P networks, each peer plays the role of content provider or content 
receiver. DRM mechanism needs to protect not only the security of digital content, but 
also the other attacks, such as Man-in-the-middle attack, impersonate attack, insider 
 8 
 
also a server to provide their bandwidth. Regarding the different scheme, P2P networks 
can be divided into three types. The next three sections will describe them one by one. 
2.2.2 Centralized P2P System 
The centralized P2P system must have a central index server to manage and record 
IP address of node and where the file is, such as Napster [3]. When a content search 
request issued from requester, the central server will request where the file that users 
can find.  Because of there has a central server to manage all peers’ real-time IP 
address and record index value of all sharing-files, the main advantage of centralized 
P2P system is high performance of file query. However, when the large number of peers 
increases gradually, the central server may become a bottleneck and degrade the whole 
network efficiency. Therefore, the main disadvantage in centralized P2P system is weak 
of scalability. Figure 3 shows the scheme of centralized server-based P2P system. 
 
 
Figure 3: Centralized P2P System 
 
2.2.3 Decentralized P2P system 
Comparing with centralized P2P system, there is no central server in the 
 10 
 
P2P system, and these P2P systems compose decentralized P2P system to become a 
hybrid P2P system, such as eMule [8] and BT [4]. Figure 5 shows the hybrid P2P 
system. 
 
Figure 5: Hybrid P2P System 
 
2.2.5 Bit-Torrent (BT) File-sharing System 
BT File-sharing system is a file download protocol. The system will divide a file 
into many pieces, everyone can download these pieces to assemble the original file, and 
when they download these files, they also can be a server to provide these files, so that 
bandwidth is able to use adequately. Some articles proposed architectures to combine 
the DRM mechanism into the BT system, and can provide capability to control the 
digital rights [5]. Besides, some architecture discuss about distributing a part of rewards 
for senders [15]. Figure 6 shows the DRM mechanism is established on BT File-sharing 
system. When Node A downloads encrypted file, it can pay to Tracker Site for this file 
and get decrypted key to play this file. 
 
 12 
 
SKey
( )SKey ABC
SKey
 
Figure 7: Symmetric Encryption System 
 
2.3.2 Asymmetric Encryption System 
Unlike symmetric encryption system, asymmetric encryption system uses different 
keys in encryption and decryption, such as RSA [17], ElGamal [18], and ECC [19] 
(Elliptic Curve Cryptosystem). Sender uses receiver’s public key to encrypt file and 
receiver uses its own private key to decrypt file. In asymmetric encryption system, 
public key could be widely distributed, but the private key need to keep secretly. Thus, 
user can easily share its public key to anyone, the other user can use this public key to 
encrypt file. Only the user who has the private key of this key pair can decrypt this 
encrypted file. Figure 8 shows the operation of asymmetric encryption system. 
 
 14 
 
( ( ))SSK H ABC
SPK
SPK
SSK
RPK
RSK
SSK
 
Figure 9: Digital Signature 
 
2.3.4 Diffie-Hellman Key Agreement 
This concept was first proposed in 1976 [16], Diffie and Helman use this concept 
to generate a session key in two-part (sender and receiver) of communication, we can 
use this key to encrypt the message, and it’s an ID-based method that only the current 
requester can decrypt the file. For example, sender will communicate with receiver. 
They can use this system to generate their private key and public key. The Parameters p 
and g are two big prime numbers, and g is a generator of p. Sender and receiver can 
generate the session key SKS and SKr. These two key will be equal. They can 
communicate securely by this session key. As follows: 
SKS = YrXs mod p 
=(gXr)Xs mod p (Yr = gXr) 
=(gXs)Xr mod p (Ys = gXs) 
=YSXr mod p = SKr 
 16 
 
 
2.3.6 HMAC(Hash-based Message Authentication Code) 
HMAC uses hash function and combines a secret key to generate a specific MAC 
(Message Authentication Code). Any cryptographic hash function can be used in the 
calculation of an HMAC such as MD5 and SHA-1. Because of the computation cost of 
HMAC is lower than digital signature, in this research; it used to be a digital signature 
to guarantee the non-repudiation and integrity of payment information. Figure 11 shows 
the operation of HMAC. If receiver want’s to verify the integrity of content M which 
sent by sender, sender needs to add its secret key into hash function and hash the file M 
to form a MAC, and then send original file M with MAC to the receiver. Receiver can 
use the same secret key to generate the same MAC to verify the integrity of content M. 
 
 
Figure 11: Hash-based Message Authentication Code 
 
 
 18 
 
 
Figure 12: Transmission Algorithm of Po and Pj 
 
2.4.2 Transmission Algorithm of Pj and Pk 
This algorithm shows a process for data transmission between two general peers 
(Pj, Pk).  Following steps shows this algorithm and it is described in Figure 13: 
After the first four normal steps, 
1) Before Pj uploading pieces of file (mi) to Pk, Pj sends a request to TS. 
2) TS utilizes Pk’s public key g
Sk with TS key ri, k and Pj’s public key g
S j with TS key 
ri, j to computes the re-encryption key g
ri,ksk – ri, jsj. TS sends re-encryption key to Pj. 
3) Pj uses this re-encryption key to re-encrypt pieces of file (migri, jsj = gri, ksk), and 
sends it to Pk. 
 
Figure 13: Transmission Algorithm of Pj and Pk 
 
 
 
 20 
 
2) TS needs to maintain a lot of parameters in each exchange. Because all public 
keys and re-encryption keys are stored in the TS; it will be a restriction of its 
scalability. 
 
2.5 Review of Chen et al.’s Scheme 
In Chen et al.’s scheme [6], they also design a transaction mechanism of P2P 
networks in their paper and want to achieve five goals as follows: 
1) Confidentiality of data communication: Protecting plain pieces during 
transmitting between two nodes. 
2) End-to-end content secrecy: When the cipher block is distributed, it can only be 
decrypted by the legal buyer. 
3) Immune from passive attacks with intercepted message: Any middle node 
cannot get any plain piece form communication between peers and TS. 
4) Immune from compromised peers: Even if attackers can get the license and 
cipher contents, they are unable to use the decryption key to extract the file. 
5) Immune from collusion between any numbers of peers: Peers cannot get more 
data than what they have through collusion attack. 
In Chen et al.’s scheme, it has four parties in their designed as follows: 
1) Peers: Every peer has different cipher blocks, and they can share it.   
2) Original peer: The content owner and license issuer. 
3) Tracker site (TS): TS maintains all active peers’ information and has a 
responsibility to response a list of active peers, where pieces of the file are 
available. 
4) C2C payment gateway (CPG): Customer to Customer payment gateway is used 
 22 
 
2.5.2 Initial Phase 
In BT-like P2P system, the original content is divided to pieces. These plain pieces 
will be encrypted by encryption key K (K=Yoz mod p) and then,                  
the original peer uses encryption key to encrypt plain pieces to generate cipher blocks, 
Cb= Mb ˙ K mod p. 
The random number z is recorded for generating the license, and cipher blocks Cb 
are ready for distributing. Furthermore, the serial number of content, total length of all 
cipher blocks, hash value of all cipher blocks, the URL of selected TS, and original 
peer’s identity are recorded in the seed. Everyone can download this seed from 
everywhere. 
 
2.5.3 Content Blocks Distribution Phase 
This phase includes four steps as follows: 
1) When a peer NR downloads a seed, it can find tracker site from the seed. 
2) TS will response a list of the peers NS, which hold some blocks of the content. 
3) If NS is selected, NR will send a request for bth block to NS. 
4) NS returns cipher block Cb to the peer NR. 
 
2.5.4 Purchase Phase 
Refer the Figure 15, we explain this phase as follows: 
1) After NR collects all cipher blocks, he should provide the message (SN, NO, NR, 
YR,θ) to C2C payment gateway (CPG) for getting content encryption key. 
2) CPG deducts the priceθfrom the account of peer NR. Then CPG sends the 
 24 
 
=Yo-z mod p  
2) Use K’ to decrypt Cb, 
Cb ˙ K’ mod p 
= (Mb ˙ Yoz) ˙ Yo-z mod p 
= Mb  
2.5.6 Weakness of Chen et al.’s Scheme 
For resisting copyright infringement, Chen et al.[6] used Diffie-Hellman key 
agreement protocol [16], to design a scheme for BT environment to prevent illegal file 
transmission. Their scheme can protect the every piece, which are divided from the 
original file, and license to defense illegal access, even the attacker collects all pieces 
and license, the attacker cannot decrypt and play the file. But there are still some issues 
that they not concerned for their scheme: 
1) Man-in-the-middle attack: In the Chen et al.’s scheme, the public key of 
ElGamal encryption system could be changed when the license transmit, it will 
causes payment mechanism fault. 
2) High computing cost: In real BT applications, a file would be divided into a 
thousand of pieces. For encryption and decryption these pieces of files, it will 
take too heavy loading for the payment gateway and user nodes.  
3) Lake of uploading incentives: To prevent sender’s benefit, giving some rewards 
to file sender is a better method than punishment [21]. For example, a user A is 
a copyright owner of file ABC, and a user B bought the file before then holds it. 
If another user C downloads the file from user B through P2P network and pays 
license for it, the payment should be distributed a part to user B, for 
encouraging user B to keep uploading. 
 26 
 
Chapter 3. Proposed Scheme 
In the Chapter 2, even if Chen et al. proposed a DRM mechanism on BT-like P2P 
networks, there are some features are not suit nowadays Internet environment.  In this 
chapter, a DRM mechanism which based on P2P networks is proposed. This mechanism 
can not only protect digital right from content owner, but also trace the illegal users who 
distribute digital content illegally. Furthermore, this mechanism offers a fair payment 
mechanism to the content owner, requester, and forwarder. This mechanism is divided 
into six parts. Firstly, each user needs to register in C2C payment gateway (CPG) and 
get a DRM module. Second, the content owner generates license key and encrypts 
digital content. Third, encrypted digital content is divided into many pieces and 
distributed on the Internet. Fourth, the content requester downloads all the pieces of 
content from forwarders, and then the requester pays for digital content and gets a 
license. Fifth, the requester plays the content with license. Finally, requester be a new 
forwarder and share the content legally. Figure 16 shows the whole architecture of 
proposed system 
 28 
 
RNsi: A random number generated by NSi  
Wi, Ri : The ith random number. 
KNiFileName: The license key of Ni for different file 
M: The original digital content 
C: Cipher of content 
PINi: Payment information of Node i. 
Ci: The ith cipher block of content 
SNi: The ith serial number of transaction 
PayNi,Ns: Payment information from Ni to Ns 
HSKi-CPG(.): The HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) function for 
node Ni, it is embedded in DRM module, and Xi-CPG is a session key between Ni 
and CPG 
 
3.2 Register Phase 
In this phase, if nodes (users) want to join this system, they need to register in C2C 
payment gateway (CPG) and get a DRM module. Firstly, nodes need to offer its own ID 
and register request to CPG. When CPG receives the register request, it will return a 
DRM module to the register node. Secondly, the register node enters the selected 
password and random number through DRM module. The DRM module will generate 
some parameters and return them to the CPG. Finally, after CPG verifies the signature 
of these parameters, it will save the pair of Node’s ID and these parameters. This pair 
used to trace the node when node distributes digital content illegally. Following steps 
uses NR to be an example to show the process of register phase, and it is pictured on 
Figure 17. 
 30 
 
3.3 Encryption Phase 
Before content owner (NO) distributes content on the P2P network, NO needs to 
generate a license key and encrypt the content. Furthermore, NO will divide 
encrypted content into many pieces and generate a seed (.torrent file) which include 
hash value of these pieces and Tracker Site’s URL. Furthermore, in this phase, this 
research has an assumption which is the original file M is protected by license key 
KNoM forever. Users can only play the content through DRM module. The original 
content M will not appear after the content is played. This encryption phase is 
explained as follows: 
1) NO Generate license key KNoM . 
2) NO uses license key to encrypt original file C = KNoM(M) . 
3) NO divided C into many pieces C1, C2,…, CN . 
4) NO generates seed which includes H(C1), H(C2),…,H(CN), and the URL of TS. 
 
3.4 Distribution Phase 
In BT-like P2P network system, every user can download a Seed from the Internet. 
This seed allows users to find TS, and to get the active sender list. Through this list, the 
user can get NF’s information, and then downloads protected files. Furthermore, in other 
to pay for forwarder for their contribution in bandwidth sharing, NF needs to do XOR 
operation to combine a random number with their sharing pieces. Following are the 
steps of distribution phase and it is pictured on Figure 18. 
1) NO distributes C1, C2,…, CN  and Seed to the forwarder and Internet. 
2) NNF1, 2,…, i XOR C1, C2,…, CN  with R1, R2,…, RN  to form C1⊕R1, C2⊕R2,…, CN⊕
RN . 
 32 
 
4) NO verifies the payment information and generates b = gr mod p and c = KNoM r•YNR 
mod p. 
5) NO sends b and c to the CPG. 
6) CPG combines b, c, and R1, R2,…, RN  into license and sends it to NR 
 
 
Figure 19: Transaction Phase 
 
3.6 Content Playing Phase 
When NR gets license from CPG, NR needs to enter the selected password and 
random number to play the content. The details of this phase are described in following 
steps: 
1) DRM module calculate C = C1⊕R1⊕R1, C2⊕R2⊕R2,…, CN⊕RN⊕RN 
2) NR enters its own password (PWNR) and selected random number W1. 
3) DRM module calculates XNR = H(W1||PWNR) 
 34 
 
 
Figure 20: Tracing Phase 
   
 36 
 
4.3 Traceable Mechanism 
Because of combining Elgamal encryption system with password and random 
number, users cannot share their pair of password and its selected number freely. 
Regarding its sharing pair, CPG can trace the user. On the other hand, because users 
only need to enter their password and selected number to play content, they can play 
their purchased digital content in all the devices they own. 
 
4.4 Security Analysis 
4.4.1 Non-repudiation 
In the transaction phase, we used HMAC to achieve the Non-repudiation purpose. 
For example, in the payment information PayNR,CPG = (SNi, HSKNR‐CPG(SNi) || PINR, HSKNR‐CPG 
(PINR)), the HSKNR‐CPG(SNi) ||PINR can only be generated by CPG and NR. Therefore, if the 
CPG is trusty and it gets this payment information, CPG can authenticate the message 
source NR, and holds PayNR,CPG to be the payment evidence. 
 
4.4.2 Reply Attack 
In the payment information, we have embedded a serial number SNi to defend 
replay attack. This serial numbers are different for every transaction, so if an attacker 
re-sends the same payment information, it won’t be accepted. 
 
4.4.3 Insider Attack 
In this attack situation, attacker is one of CPG’s staff. This attacker can access 
CPG’s database and steal the pair of user’s pair of ID and other parameters. In the 
ElGamal encryption system, the XNR of public key, e.g. YNR = g
XNR mod p, cannot be 
 38 
 
 
Table 1: Comparison with Zhang et al. and Chan et al.’s Schemes 
 
Scheme 
 
Function 
Proposed 
Scheme 
Zhang et al.[5] Chen et al.[6] 
Immune of 
Man-in-the-middle 
Attack 
V V X 
Immune of 
Replay-attack 
V X V 
Immune of  
Insider Attack 
V X X 
Non-repudiation V X V 
Transaction 
Mechanism 
V X V 
Pay for Forwarder 
Mechanism 
V X X 
Traceable 
Mechanism 
V X X 
 
4.6 Analysis of Proposed Scheme by Jerald Hughes 
et al. ‘s Seven Specific Market Factors 
In 2008, Jerald Hughes et al. proposed a paper [20] which used the literature 
analysis to infer seven specific market factors in the field of P2P research. They used 
these seven constraints to determine whether the P2P systems are feasible to perform a 
P2P business model or not. We also used this analytical framework to analyze proposed 
system and presented the conclusion in Table 2. We explain each factor as follows: 
1) Technical: This factor of P2P file-sharing systems includes aspects of both 
hardware and software. In our system, we used the technologies, e.g. DRM and 
 40 
 
purchased digital content in any devices, they still need to install a DRM 
module. It’s hard to enforce on some devices, such as MP3 player. Therefore, 
we defined this factor as weakness. 
7) Cultural: This factor includes cultural values, social norms, gender effects, 
ethical biases, and generational differences. Sociology, media theory and 
communication studies are the main reference disciplines in this category. 
Because of P2P networks have become the main stream of file-sharing platform, 
file-sharing behavior become a general culture on Internet stage by stage, and 
then perform some social group for different digital content. Therefore, we 
defined this factor as success. 
 
Table 2: Analysis of Proposed Scheme by Seven Specific Market Factors 
 
Constraints Key Factors Outcome 
Technical DRM, BT Success 
Economic Payment mechanism Success 
Structural Any type of digital content industry Success 
Legal DRM, traceable mechanism Success 
Political Fair transaction Success 
Cognitive Restricted by DRM Weakness 
Cultural Popular file-sharing behavior Success 
 
   
 42 
 
Chapter 6. Future Work 
In most of DRM mechanism, there is a problem which is the fair transaction of 
providers and requesters. For example, in proposed system, when CPG pays for 
forwarder, forwarder needs to return a random number R to CPG. But unfortunately, 
after CPG pays for forwarders, forwarders can decide to return R or not return anything. 
In proposed mechanism, we protect the forwarders, but in other papers, maybe the 
decision belongs to the CPG. Furthermore, in [22], Franco Frattolillo proposed a 
traceable mechanism which does not need DRM module to protect digital rights. The 
users do not need to install a DRM module and it means that the digital content in their 
system can be played on any device. This reason may cause the users to willing to use 
their system. In the future, these topics are important in continuing research. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 44 
 
Journal of Computers, vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 24-37. 
[11] W. Ku and C.H. Chi, 2004, "Survey on the technological aspects of DRM," 
Journal of Computer Science, vol. 3225, pp. 391-403. 
[12] J.S. Li, C.J. Hsieh, and C.F. Hung, 2010. "A novel DRM framework for peer-to-per 
music content delivery," Journal of Systems and Software, vol. 83, no. 10, pp. 
1689-1700. 
[13] I. Stoica, R. Morris, D. Karger, M.F. Kaashoek, and H. Balakrishnan, 2001, "Chord: 
A Scalable Peer-to-peer Lookup Service for Internet Applications," Conference on 
Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Protocol for Computer 
communication,“ vol. 31, pp. 149-160. 
[14] A. Rowstron and P. Druschel, 2001, "Pastry: Scalable, Distributed Object Location 
and Routing for Large-scale Peer-to-peer System," Journal of Computer Science, 
Vol. 2218, pp. 329-350. 
[15] G. Arora, M. Hanneghan, and M. Merabti, 2005. "P2P Commercial Digital Content 
Exchange," Electronic Commerce Research and Application, vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 
250-263. 
[16] W. Diffie, and M. Hellman, 1976, "New Directions in Cryptography," IEEE 
Transactions on Information Theory, vol.22, no. 6, pp. 644-654. 
[17] R. L. Rivest, A. Shamir and L. Adleman, 1978, “A Method for Obtaining Digital 
Signature and Public-key Cryptosystems,” Communication of the ACM, vol.21, no. 
2, pp. 120-126. 
[18] T. ElGamal, 1985, “A Public Key Cryptosystem and a Signature Scheme Based on 
Discrete Logarithms,” Journal of Computer Science, vol. 196, pp. 10-18. 
[19] N. Koblitz, 1987, “Elliptic Curve Cryptosystems,” Journal of Mathematics of 
 46 
 
[28] L. Chen, 2007, “An Interpretation of Identity-Based Cryptography,” in 
Foundations of Security Analysis and Design IV, Vol. 4677, pp. 183-208. 
[29] Y. Yu, B. Yang, Y. Sun, S. Lin, and Zhu, 2009, “Identity Based Signcryption 
Scheme without Random Oracles,” Computer Standards & Interfaces, Vol. 31, 
no.1, pp. 56-62. 
[30] J.Y. Sunq, J.Y. Jeong, and K.S. Yoon, 2006, “DRM Enabled P2P Architecture,” 
The 8th International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology, Vol. 1, 
pp. 487-490. 
 
與會心得： 
首先必須要感謝指導教授楊朝成教授的鼓勵，讓我有機會可以參與這次的 NISS2011 國際研討會，
NISS2011 於澳門舉辦，雖然是由韓國 AICIT 主辦，但是與會會場聚集不少來自台灣、香港以及大
陸的學者，會外大家可以用共通的語言相互交流，分享一下研究心得。在參與整個研討會活動後，
不但增廣了視野，同時更讓我在這當中學習到許多寶貴經驗。此外，在參與過幾個 Session 後，深
深地讓人感到英語能力的重要。以下為參與本次參與國際研討會心得重點摘要： 
1. 外語能力 
在參與整個研討會三天的議程後，深深感受到英文能力的重要，雖然與會的學者有不少來自華人
地區，所以有些時候講中文也可以，但是在正式的 Session 中，英文還是唯一的選擇，若英文
能力不夠好，無法將其自己的想法表示清楚，那們將會錯失很多交流的經驗。在台灣要用英語交
談的環境還不是很多，尤其是在學校裡，即便是在研究所階段，最多的也只是閱讀與寫信，口說
的機會相對少很多，所以如果可以藉由參與國際研討會的機會，加強練習自己的英文能也，這也
算是不錯的收穫。 
2. 學術交流 
在為期三天的會議中，參與多場的 Session 以及大會所安排 Keynote Speech，在參與過這些
Session 與報告之後，除了獲得更多與本身研究領域相關知識之外，也初步了解其他研究領域的
一些基礎知識，這對於展了國際的視野，增強學術交流著實受益良多。本次大會邀請了兩位學者
來進行 Keynote Speech，第一位為出身於中國福建的 Dr. Paul P. Wang，目前是杜克大學
(Duke University)的教授，王教授主講的主題是關於模糊理論，但是其開場是由幾句成語/諺語
來起頭，並延伸至目前的自然環境、氣候的異常，最後才切入其主題，在這場演講中並沒有提到
太多太艱深或是學術的理論，王教授透過在我們身邊的氣候環境，對其主題做出淺顯易懂的說明，
A Token-based Authorized File-Sharing Protocol for 
BitTorrent-like P2P Systems 
 
Hung-Wen Yang1, Chou-Chen Yang2 , Yi-Ju Lin2 and Woei Lin1 
1 Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Chung Hsing University 
2 Department of Management Information Systems, National Chung Hsing University 
250 Kuo Kuang Rd., Taichung 402, Taiwan R.O.C. 
{hwyang.tw@gmail.com*, cc.yang@nchu.edu.tw, g9829003@mail.nchu.edu.tw, wlin@cs.nchu.edu.tw} 
 
   
  Abstract- In recent years, more and more people use Internet and with the improvements of 
communication technology, information-sharing trends has surged over Internet. Bit-Torrent is a 
well-known P2P application used for distributing large amounts of data and exchange digital content 
with high efficiently and scalability. Unfortunately, many users do not get authorization but transmit 
files through Bit-Torrent illegally. The piracy problems become a very serious issue because the 
digital contents can be copied and redistributed easily through P2P network without license owners' 
authorized. For this reason, digital rights management (DRM) is considered as a general preventive 
measure to avoid copyright infringement. However, a conventional DRM system implementation on 
distributed P2P network would be quite difficult. Therefore, we propose an efficient DRM model on 
P2P network that to prevent violation of copyrights for digital content owners and to provide more 
attractive motivation for users. 
 
I.    INTRODUCTION 
 
   With the great development of network technology, more and more people join Internet to request for data. 
To use network bandwidth adequately, people need an efficiently interchangeable platform for speeding the 
file sharing and exchanging. Presently, the P2P architecture is the main method to distribute data flow and 
use network bandwidth more efficiently and scalability. Peer-to-peer networks have become the main 
stream of file-sharing platform by means of its distribution features to overcome the bottleneck problem in 
traditional client-server architecture. But the copyright infringement becomes a serious problem, due to 
these convenient features, more and more people use them to transmit unauthorized files. The piracy issue 
seriously hurts license owners' deserved profits and potential market. For this reason, digital rights 
management (DRM) is considered as a general preventive measure to avoid copyright infringement. 
Recently, the concept of Digital Rights Management (DRM) was proposed [1-7]. The major purpose of the 
DRM is to keep the intellectual property from being redistributed without the consent of the owner. The 
DRM system deals with the process of the digital contents including protection, distribution, and 
authorization. With the help of DRM technology, intellectual property is protected by data encryption so 
that it can only be accessed by authorized users without limitless distribution. However, a conventional 
DRM system is only suitable for client-server architecture, and its implementation on distributed P2P 
network would be quite difficult. Although some researchers have proposed some systems combining DRM 
with P2P network, the effect is limited. Therefore, for constructing a reliable transaction platform, we 
construct a DRM business model on P2P network that to prevent violation of copyrights for digital content 
owners and to provide more attractive motivation for users. 
In [4], it presented a secure transaction platform that protects digital content copyright and allows all P2P 
users legally exchange files. In [5], Chen et al. came up with a DRM business model for BT system based 
on Diffie-Hellman key agreement protocol [6], and improved Zhang’s mechanism [7]. Although, Chen et 
al.’s scheme can protect every piece of file and license to defense illegal access. Even an attacker gets all 
content provider is an entity that offers the encrypted content and establishes rules and licenses. In general, 
to protect the digital content, the symmetric or asymmetric cryptosystem is adopted, such as AES or RSA. 
The distributor is an entity that enables the encrypted content available to the consumer. A distributor 
enables a new distribution channel for the content provider. In general, the distributor always sets the 
encrypted content on its website over the Internet. The duty of the license server is to issue the license to 
consumer. The consumer who uses DRM system to acquire the digital content by downloading from the 
distributor and to purchase license for playing the content. In DRM environment, all DRM application and 
service are all built on the trusted computing framework. The trusted computing framework is responsible 
for secure distribution, execution environment, and license enforcement, supporting cryptographic functions 
and key management, and tamper resistance. 
 
III.    PROPOSED PROTOCOL 
 
In order to avoid copyright infringement, a well-designed protocol for preventing illegal file transmission 
on P2P network is necessary. P2P networks depend on the cooperation of its peers; all peers need to 
contribute to the file sharing process. But, there is no administrator in the system, thus, peers called 
freerider or leeching are sometime to download more data and upload few data to other peers. In P2P 
networks, the leeching behavior is against the nature of P2P network and violation of the health from the 
networks. For preventing leeching behavior, an upload-rewarding mechanism is worth to consider. 
Therefore, we propose a protocol which combines illegal transmission protection and reward mechanism for 
encouraging P2P users keep contributing. Figure 1 shows the proposed system architecture. We divided our 
protocol into seven phases: registration, packaging, token generation, transmission, license request, 
decryption and upload-rewarding phase. Table 1 shows the notations used in this paper. 
 
 
Fig. 1. System architecture 
 
A.   Registration Phase 
Before join to the system, every peer is necessary to register and get the DRM module. Every peer generates 
its key pair, for example, peer	 ௜ܲ	will generate the private key	 ௜ܺ 	and public key	 ௜ܻ ൌ ݃௑೔݉݋݀	݌. After initial 
process, the peer needs to setup the DRM module. The DRM module is responsible for all digital content 
issues including digital content decryption, license request and parse, digital content delivery etc. 
Furthermore, the HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) function for peer	݅	will embed in the 
DRM module and the secret key which using for calculating the HMAC is shared between peer	݅	and	ܤܭ. 
 
D.    Transmission Phase 
When peer 	 ோܲ	obtains the signed tokens, it can connect to 	 ௌܲଵ	and	 ௌܲଶ	 for downloading ܥଵand	ܥଶ , 
respectively. Peer	 ோܲ	will issue a transmission token (ܶܭௌ೔) to the sender ( ௌܲ௜) after he downloaded the piece 
of the file (ܥ௜). Simultaneously, the sender ( ௌܲ௜) will validate the signature of	ܶܭௌ೔. The detail process of 
transfer phase is showed as follows. 
(1) ܲ ோ	connects to	 ௌܲଵ	for downloading	ܥଵ. 
(2) ܲ ோ	transmits {	ܶܭௌభ,	ܪ௉ೃሺܶܭௌభ, ௌܲభ, ோܲሻ} where	ܶܭௌభ	is a transmission token and 	ܪ௉ೃሺܶܭௌభ, ௌܲభ, ோܲሻ	is 
used to be the evidence. 
(3) ௌܲభ	transmits	ܥଵ	to	 ோܲ. 
(4) Simultaneously,	 ோܲ	will connect to the	 ௌܲଶ	and perform the above processes. 
 
E.    License Request Phase 
When peer	 ோܲ	completely download a file, it can connect to the license server and pay the license token 
(ܶܭ௅) for license request. The detail processes are as follows. 
(1) ܮܵ	validates the signature of	ܶܭ௅. 
(2) ܮܵ	computes 
	ߙோ ൌ ቆ ோܻ
௔
ைܻ௔
ቇ݉݋݀	݌ 
	ߚோ ൌ ݃௔	݉݋݀	݌.						 
(3) ܮܵ	generates the license including	ߙோ	and	ߚோ. 
(4) ܮܵ	sends the license to	 ோܲ	and pays the payment to	 ைܲ. 
 
F.    Decryption Phase 
When peer	 ோܲ	receives the license, it can perform the following process to decrypt the file and enjoy it 
legally. 
(1) ܲ ோ	computes the content decryption key 
ܭௗ ൌ ߙோߚ௑ೃ 	݉݋݀	݌. 
(2) ܲ ோ	decrypts the content as 	ܥ ∙ ܭௗ ൌ ܧ௄೐ሺ݂݈݅݁ሻ ∙ ܭௗ 																									ൌ ݂݈݅݁ ∙ ܭ௘ ∙ ܭௗ	݉݋݀	݌ ൌ ݂݈݅݁.	 
(3) ܲ ோ	updates the list of	ܶܵ	and lets ோܲ	as a new seeder. 
 
G.    Upload-Rewarding Phase 
This phase describes a simple upload-rewarding mechanism that using token-based mechanism and 
HMAC technique. When	 ௌܲభobtains the token, it can connect to	ܤܭ to get the payment. He needs to provide 
{ܶܭௌభ,	ܪ௉ೄభሺܶܭௌభ, ௌܲభሻ} and the	ܤܭ	validates the above message. If the verifications are hold,	ܤܭ	will pay 
to	 ௌܲభ. Note that, we will discuss the dispute arbitrating process in section 4.2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
 
This research was partially supported by the National Science Council, Taiwan, R.O.C., under contract 
NO: NSC 99-2221-E-005-094. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] C.T. Yen, H.T. Liaw, N. W. Lo, T. C. Liu, and J. Stu, "Transparent Digital Rights Management System 
with Superdistribution," in Broadband, Wireless Computing, Communication and Applications, 4-6 
Nov. 2010. 
[2] C. C. Yang, J. C. Hsiao, H. W. Yang, and J. Y. Jiang, "Convertible DRM System Based on Identity-
Based Encryption," International Journal of Computer Networks & Communications, 2009, 1(3). 
[3] N. Y. Lee and T. Y. Lee, "User Friendly Digital Rights Management System Based on Smart Cards," in 
International Conference on Intelligent Information Hiding and Multimedia Signal Processing, 12-14 
Sept. 2009. 
[4] C. C. Yang, J. Y. Jiang, and J.C. Hsiao, "Trusted DRM on P2P network," Journal of Computers, 2009, 
20(3). 
[5] Y. Y. Chen, J. K. Jan, Y. Y. Chi, and M.L. Tsai, "A Feasible DRM Mechanism for BT-Like P2P 
System," in International Symposium on Information Engineering and Electronic Commerce, 2009, 
Ternopil, Ukraine. 
[6] W. Diffie and M. Hellman, "New directions in cryptography," Information Theory, IEEE Transactions 
on, 1976, 22(6): p. 644-654. 
[7] Zhang Xinwen, Liu Dongyu, Chen Songqing, Zhang Zhao, and S. Ravi, "Toward digital rights 
protection in BitTorrent-like P2P systems," in The 15th SPIE/ACM Multimedia Computing and 
Networking, 2008. 
[8] C. C. Yang, Y. R. Lin, and J.C. Hsiao, "Authorized file-sharing system on P2P networks," in 
Proceedings of the 6th International Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing Conference, 
2010, Caen, France: ACM  
[9] J. S. Beuscart, "Napster Users between Community and Clientele: The Formation and Regulation of a 
Sociotechnical Group," Sociologie du Travail, 2005, 47: p. e1-e6. 
[10] I. Stoica, R. Morris, D. Liben-Nowell, D. R. Karger, M. F. Kaashoek, F. Dabek, and H. Balakrishnan, 
"Chord: A Scalable Peer-to-Peer Lookup Protocol for Internet Applications," ACM Transactions On 
Networking, 2003, 11(1): p. 17-32. 
[11] A. Rowstron and P. Druschel, "Pastry: Scalable, distributed object location and routing for large-scale 
peer-to-peer systems," in In Proc. IFIP/ACM Middleware, 2001. 
[12] C. P. Schnorr, "Efficient signature generation by smart cards," Journal of Cryptology, 1991, 4(5): p. 
161-174. 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：楊朝成 計畫編號：99-2221-E-005-094- 
計畫名稱：安全的衍生性 P2P 數位權管理商業模式之研究與實作 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
