 2
process called rhizofiltration (i.e. adsorption of metals by plant biomass) can be used to extract heavy 
metals from groundwater.  The plants used for remediation needs to be harvested and properly 
disposed of.  The main disadvantage of this technique is that it takes much longer to remediate a site 
compared to other methods.  Soil flushing and soil washing remove heavy metals by adding various 
agents to the soil.  This process can be done in a reactor or as heap leaching.  The chemical agents 
include inorganic acids, such as sulfuric and hydrochloric acids, organic acids, such as acetic and citric 
acids, chelating agents, such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and nitrilotriacetate (NTA), 
and various combination of the above (薩支高與溫一倉,1999; 張尊國, 1991; USEPA, 1991).       
The predominant method for remediating groundwater contaminated with heavy metals is 
pump-and-treat (P&T).  P&T operates by pumping contaminated groundwater from arrays of wells, 
removing the contaminants from the water with on-site treatment systems, and re-injecting the treated 
water back into the aquifer or disposing of it off-site.  Despite the popular use of P&T as the treatment 
method, the available data shows that P&T is inefficient and sometimes unable to restore the 
groundwater quality to acceptable levels (Mackay and Cherry, 1989, MacDonald and Kavanaugh, 1994, 
and USNRC, 1999).  The ineffectiveness of P&T on groundwater and soil remediation can be 
attributed to the presence of low permeability soil, non-uniform flow patterns, and sorption of 
contaminants.   
The presence of low permeability soil causes a low water recovery rate and requires more pumping 
power.  This results in an indefinite pumping period from the wells and excessive operational cost.  
Non-uniform flow patterns are due to the inter bedding of soils with high and low permeability, the 
presence of fracture, or other heterogeneities.  When water flows through heterogeneous media, the 
flow rate in the high permeability is much higher than in the low permeability region.  As a result, 
advective transport, which is the major mechanism for contaminant transport in a P&T system, in the 
low permeability soil is insignificant.  Instead, the dominant transport mechanism of contaminants in 
these regions is diffusion (Mackay and Cherry, 1989).   
Sorption process occurs when a solute is bonded to the surface of soil particles either by adsorption, 
chemisorption, or ion exchange (Fetter, 1993).  The mass of contaminants sorbed is proportional to the 
surface area of the soil particles.  As the surface area to mass ratio of low permeability soils, such as 
clay, is orders of magnitude greater than high permeability soils (Sparks, 2003), greater amounts of 
contaminants may accumulate in the low permeability regions.  Thus, during P&T operations, the low 
permeability regions become reservoirs of contaminants, which are slowly released to the flushing flow 
by diffusion.  The combined effects of non-uniform flow patterns and sorption greatly reduce the 
amount of contaminants removed and prolong the clean up period.  Typically, the contaminant 
concentrations rapidly decrease at the beginning of P&T operations as dissolved contaminants are 
removed.  After the initial removal period, the contaminant concentration reaches a level and further 
pumping is unable to decrease it because the removal of the contaminant is controlled by diffusion.   
The drawbacks of P&T has prompted the development of new treatment technologies that are 
capable of addressing the shortcomings of P&T.  The application of electrical fields is one of many 
methods applied to facilitate the removal of contaminants (USNRC, 1999).  When an electrical field is 
applied to a clay-rich aquifer, the mobilization and removal of contaminants can be accomplished by 
under the influence of an electrical field (Acar and Alshawabkeh, 1993).  The electroosmotic flux, qeo, 
can be written as 
eeoeo nvq τ=     (2) 
where veo = electroosmotic velocity, τ = tortuosity, and ne = effective porosity.   
The electroosmotic velocity can be described by the Helmholtz-Smoluchowski equation (Hunter, 
1981). 
Vveo ∇−= μ
ες      (3) 
where ε = permittivity of the pore fluid, ζ = zeta potential, and μ = viscosity of the pore fluid.   
According to Eq.(3), the electroosmotic velocity is directly proportional to the zeta potential and the 
electrical gradient, and inversely proportional to the pore fluid viscosity.  It also indicates that unlike 
hydraulic flow, electroosmotic flow is independent of pore size (Probstein and Hicks, 1993).  Thus, 
theoretically the electroosmotic flow is unaffected by the presence of low permeability soil with small 
pore size.  As clay minerals that possess high zeta potential and electrical conductivity are 
preferentially found in low permeability regions, the electroosmotic flow is higher than in the high 
permeability regions.  This gives electroosmosis the advantage over conventional methods, such as 
P&T, in mobilizing and transporting contaminants in the low permeability regions.   
Cations move from the anode toward the cathode, whereas anions move from the cathode to the 
anode under the influence of an electrical field.  The migration velocity of an ion, vi, in a dilute 
solution is (Rieger, 1994) 
Vuv ii ∇=       (4) 
where ui = ionic mobility of ion i.   
The ionic mobility ,defined as the average velocity per unit electrical field strength, is determined 
from (Rieger, 1994) 
Fz
u
i
i
i
Λ=     (5) 
where Λi = molar ionic conductivity (S m2/mol), zi = the valence of the ion, and F = the Faraday 
constant (96,490 C/mol).  Eq.(4) and (5) suggest that the migrating velocity of ions is independent of 
pore size.  As mentioned above, the electrical gradient in low permeability regions is higher than in 
high permeability regions due to the high clay contents.  As a result, ions migrate faster in low 
permeability than in low permeability regions.   
Electrokinetic technique has been applied to remove inorganic and organic contaminants from low 
permeability soils (Page and Page, 2002; Saichek and Reddy, 2005).  It should be pointed out that the 
major mechanisms in removing inorganic contaminants (ionic) are electroosmosis and electromigration, 
whereas electroosmosis is the main mechanism for removing organic contaminants (non-ionic).  
Laboratory-scale experiments showed that electrokinetics can remove 75 to 92% of metals, such as 
Cd2+, Pb2+, and Zn2+ (Hamed et al., 1991; Acar et al., 1994; Hicks and Tondorf, 1994).  In larger pilot- 
and field- scale applications, electrokinetics is combined with other in situ treatment methods to form a 
treatment system called the Lasagna® process (Ho et al., 1997).  The setup in a Lasagna® process 
includes placing sheet-like electrodes on each end of the target volumes and creating in situ treatment 
zones between the electrodes.  The design concept is to mobilize and transport contaminants by 
 4
( ) 19.66pK   2OHCuOHCu sp-22(s) =+⇔ +                    (6)  
It can be derived from Eq.(1) that ammonium ion is the dominant ammonia species at pH 
values below 8.25, whereas ammonia is the dominant species at pH values above 10.25.  As the pH 
of soil close to the cathode usually increases to above 9 in an electrokinetic experiment, it is 
possible that copper and ammonia could form complexes as described in Eqs. (2) to (5), resulting in 
the increase of copper hydroxide solubility.  Thus, when ammonium ion is used as the catholyte in 
an electrokinetic experiment, it not only could act as a buffer for hydroxide ion generated from 
electrolysis but also compete with hydroxide ion for copper ions.   
Two types of soil will be used as the medium in this research: (1) pure kaolinite clay and (2) 
field soil samples that contain different types of minerals.  The reason for using pure kaolinite is 
that it has been used by many researchers to study the removal efficiency of heavy metals by 
electrokinetic methods.  Therefore, the results from this study can be compared to those in the 
literature.  Using soil samples from the field gives us a closer look at how the proposed technique 
performs in the real world.  The properties of the soils include organic matter content, pH, cation 
exchange capacity, and specific surface area will be measured using triplicate samples.   
To prepare contaminated soils, dry soil will be first mixed with copper sulfate solution with a 
loading of approximately 1.5 g copper to 1 kg of dry soil.  It has been shown that at this level of 
contamination, most copper is retained by the soil mass (Cabral and Lefebvre, 1998).  After 
through mixing of the soil and copper sulfate solution, the slurry will be kept undisturbed and 
flooded with 1 cm of copper sulfate solution for 3 different times: 1, 7, and 30 days, respectively.  
After curing the contaminated soil will be dried at 105 oC for 24 hours and stored.   
Each experiment will be conducted using an electrokinetic reactor constructed from an acrylic 
tube approximately 5 cm in diameter.  The section of the reactor that holds contaminated soil will 
be approximately 20 cm.  On each end of the reactor is a compartment reservoir that serves as 
anode and cathode, respectively.  The electrical potential will be applied to the soil through 
electrodes that are made of a layer of granular graphite sandwiched between two fritted glasses.  
Contact between the power supply and the electrodes will be made by inserting a graphite rod into 
the granular graphite layer of each electrode.  In-situ voltage monitoring ports will be installed 
along the reactor every 5 cm.  These ports not only can monitor the voltage distribution but also 
can measure the redox potential.   
Before the start of each experiment, the reactor will be packed with contaminated soil and DI 
water will be cycled through the soil column for 24 hours.  Afterwards, the anode and cathode 
reservoir will be filled with 0.01 M of ammonium acetate solution and a constant current will be 
passed through the soil column with a potentiostat.  The variables that will be evaluated include 
electrolyte pH, concentrations of ammonia, applied currents, and curing times.  For each condition 
duplicate experiments will be conducted.   
At the end of each experiment, the soil will be cut into 10 sections for analysis.  Each section 
will be analyzed for pH, electrical conductivity, and subjected to sequential extraction as described 
in the section of analytical methods.   
Soil pH and electrical conductivity will be measured by using soil solutions from a DI water to 
 6
 8
removal efficiency of this approach.   
VI. References 
張尊國 受重金屬污染土壤復育技術之研究—土壤淋洗, 行政院環保署計畫報告, 
EPA-80-E3H1-09-04, 臺北, 台灣, 1991.   
薩支高與溫一倉, 以 EDTA 水洗沉降法復育受鎘及鉛污染土壤之研究, 第十四屆廢棄物處理技
術研討成果發表會論文集, p2-136 至 2-148, 桃園, 台灣, 1999. 
薩支高 “Remediation of Lead and Mercury-Spiked Soils by Sequential Sedimentary Soil-Washing.” 
土壤及地下水污染整治技術研討成果發表會論文集, p 178-194, April 24, Tainan, Taiwan, 
2000. 
Acar, Y.B. and Alshawabkeh, A.N. “Principles of electrokinetic remediation.” Environ. Sci. Technol., 
v 27, n 13, p 2638-2647, 1993. 
Acar, Y.B.; Hamed, J.T.; Alshawabkeh, A.N.; Gale, R.J. “Removal of cadmium (II) from saturated 
kaolinite by the application of electrical current.” Geotechnique, v 44, 239-254, 1994. 
Buettner, H. M. and Daily, W. D. “Cleaning Contaminated Soil Using Electrical Heating and Air 
Stripping.” J. Envir. Engrg., ASCE, v 121, n 8, 580-589, 1995.  
Conner, J.R. Chemical Fixation and Solidification of Hazardous Wastes, Van Nostrand Reinhold, New 
York, NY, 1990. 
Cabral, A.R. and Lefebvre, G., “Use of Sequential Extraction in the Study of Heavy Metal Retention 
by Silty Soils.” Water, Air, and Soil Pollution, v 102, 329-344, 1998. 
Evanko, C.R. and Dzombak, D.A. Remediation of Metals-contaminated Soils and Groundwater. 
Technology Evaluation Report TE-97-01, Groundwater Remediation Technologies Analysis 
Center, Pittsburg, PA, 1997. 
Fetter, C.W. Contaminant Hydrogeology, Macmillan Pub.: New York, NY, 458pp, 1993. 
Hamed, J.; Acar, Y.B.; Gale, R.J. “Pb(II) removal from kaolinite by electrokinetics.” J. Geotech. 
Engrg. ASCE. v 117, 241-271, 1991.  
Hazardous Waste Consultant “Remediating Soil and Sediment Contaminated with Heavy Metals.” , 
Elsevier Science, Netherlands, 1996 
 10
Gavaskar, A.R., and Royer, M.D. Remedial Option for Metals-Contaminated Sites. Lewis, Boca 
Raton, FL, 1995. 
Sparks, D.L. Environmental Soil Chemistry, Academic Press: San Diego, CA, 352pp, 2003.  
Taiwan EPA, Investigating the Concentration of Metals in Agriculture Land and Contaminated Site 
Controlling Action, EPA-90-GA13-03-90A285, 173pp, 2002. 
 Tessier, A., Campbell, P.G.C., and Bisson, M. “Sequential Extraction Procedure for the Speciation of 
Particulate Trace Metals.” Anal. Chem. v 51, 844-850, 1979.   
Udell, K.S. In Subsurface Restoration, Ward, C.H., Cherry, J.A., Scalf, M.R., Eds.; Ann Arbor Press: 
Chelsea, MI, pp 251-271, 1997. 
USEPA, Innovative Treatment Technologies. Semi-annual status report EPA/540/2-91/001, US EPA 
Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response, Washington D.C., 1991. 
USNRC, Groundwater and Soil Clean Up: Improving Management of Persistent Contaminants, 
National Academy Press, Washington, DC, 285pp, 1999. 
Vidac, R.D., Pohland, F.G. Treatment Walls. Technology Evaluation Report TE-96-01, Groundwater 
Remediation Technologies Analysis Center, Pittsburg, PA, 1996.   
Wong, J.S.H, Hicks, R.E., and Probstein, R.F. “EDTA-enhanced Electroremediation of 
Metal-Contaminated Soils.” J. Hazard. Mater., v 55, 61-79, 1997. 
Yong, R.N., Galvez-Cloutier, R., Phadungchewit, Y. “Selective sequential extraction analysis of 
heavy-metal retention in soil.” Can. Geot. J., v 30, n 5, 834-847, 1993.  
Zhou, D.M., Deng, C.F., Cang, L., and Alshawabkeh, A.N. “Electrokinetic Remediation of a Cu-Zn 
Contaminated Red Soil by Controlling the Voltage and Conditioning Catholyte pH.” 
Chemosphere, v 61, 519-527, 2005.    
相關過程與活動如下： 
3/25由中正機場轉香港機場直飛伊斯坦堡，當地3/26 07:00 抵達，參訪伊
市至3/28早上再飛Antalya 下機轉撘車半小時至30km外會場附近旅社，中午
12:00進入會場報到領取相關資料至會議室聆聽特邀專題演講，午餐後下午於會
場聆聽專長所屬同行之論文發表，是晚並出席歡迎晚宴。 
3/29全天聽取論文發表，當晚出席Gala晚宴，席間大會特別頒獎予 Dr. 
Vesilind表彰其在污泥研究領域上傑出之貢獻。Dr. Vesilind 為筆者碩士論文
之指導教授，因此感到與有榮焉。上午9:00～5/17中午12：30出席開幕式並聆聽
大會特邀演講即爾後之論文發表，此次大會因主題為汙泥處理程序及資源化，出
席代表專長較ㄧ致，較有共通專長專長。議程中間茶敘時間及午餐時間則可與其
它與會代表進行意見討論。此次論文發表安排於3/30上午，筆者除口頭發表論文
外並被邀為本發表議題之主持人。 
3/30下午搭乘巴士於Antalya舊城住宿一夜，3/31日間參觀Antalya舊城與港
口等名勝，傍晚自Antalya機場取道伊斯坦堡及香港歷時二十四小時於4/1晚間返
回中正機場。 
二、與會心得 
筆者此次與會心得如下： 
1.本次大會地點土耳其之國民所得僅為本國之三分之ㄧ，但就其目前國
內汙泥處理現況甚至已超過我國，此情勢應與其接近歐洲且即將成為歐
盟之ㄧ員有關。此為我應感到慚愧之處。主管相關單位應思考改進提
昇，以提高本國污泥處理及資源化之水平。 
2.台灣地區汙泥處理相較於其它人口較不密集，土地取得困難地區而言，乃屬
較嚴重急需積極處理者，因此有關於污泥之研究及發展應格外受到重視與鼓
勵。此次研討會不論在大多數發表者都來自於歐洲，雖然因舉辦國較靠近歐
洲，但就近年來有關污泥之議題歐洲國家與學者投入較積極也可印證。 
 
 2
