  2
30 
35 
40 
45 
50 
55 
60 
65 
70 
75 
80 
85 
90 
105 
110 
115 
120 
125 
Novel Automated Integrated Micro-Chips for Diagnosis of Virus 
Infectious Diseases 
Abstract 
This study reports a new microfluidic system with three integrated functional devices for pumping, mixing and separation 
of bio-samples by utilizing micro-electro-mechanical-systems technology. By using antibody-conjugated magnetic beads, 
the developed system can be used to purify and enrich virus samples such that the subsequent detection of viruses can be 
performed with a higher sensitivity. The target viruses were first captured by the antibody coated onto the magnetic beads 
by using a rotary micromixer which performed the incubation process. The viruses were then purified and enriched by a 
magnetic field generated by planar microcoils. The integrated microfluidic system can perform the whole purification and 
enrichment process automatically using a rotary micropump and appropriate microvalves. In addition, a numerical 
simulation was also employed to optimize the design of the microcoils and to investigate the magnetic field strength and 
distribution. The simulation results were consistent with experimental observations. Finally, the developed system was used 
to successfully perform the purification and enrichment of Dengue viruses. The detectable limit of Dengue viruses was 
found to be as low as 102 pfu/ml by using this approach. Therefore, the integrated microsystem can perform incubation, 
transportation, mixing, and purification of virus samples, possibly making it a promising platform for future biological and 
medical applications.
Introduction 
Purification and enrichment of a complex bio-sample with 
an extremely low concentration is crucial in many 
biomedical assays. These steps can efficiently increase the 
detection limit of the sensor system. More importantly, 
clinical samples are usually contained in a biological 
medium that would normally inhibit the subsequent 
DNA/RNA amplification. Therefore, the extraction of the 
target viruses or bacteria from a complex bio-sample is 
usually inevitable in clinical practice with most existing 
detection systems [1]. In the past decade, 
micro-electro-mechanical-systems (MEMS) technology 
and micromachining techniques have enabled the 
miniaturization of biomedical and chemical analysis 
devices and systems. Furthermore, technologies for the 
realization of fluid-based microsystems have been 
demonstrated since the advent of 
micro-total-analysis-systems (µ-TAS) [2, 3]. Various 
fluidic operations in microfluidic systems such as sample 
preparation, sample injection, sample manipulation, 
filtration, reaction, separation and detection, have been 
successfully demonstrated [4, 5]. Efficient transportation 
of fluids in these microsystems has been critical for 
miniaturized biomedical systems. Many approaches have 
been demonstrated to drive fluids inside microchannels. 
Significantly, the pneumatic micropump, using the 
peristaltic motions of membranes, is one of the most 
commonly used and reliable methods [6]. In addition, a 
rotary pneumatic micropump has also been developed to 
control microfluidic flow [7]. The rotary pump uses several 
microvalves to drive a fluid in a loop. Additionally, a rapid 
and efficient mixing device is also necessary in a chemical 
reaction or bio-detection system. However, due to the low 
diffusion rate inside microfluidic devices, micro-scale 
mixing still remains a challenge. Generally speaking, 
micro-scale mixing can be divided into two categories: 
active and passive mixers. Either passive or active mixers 
have been extensively investigated to generate transverse 
flows, thus performing effective mixing inside a 
microfluidic system. 
95 
100 
In principle, passive mixers are used either to laminate the 
fluids or to generate chaotic advection by means of a 
complex geometry inside the microchannels. They lead to 
increased interfacial contact areas and consequently 
achieved better mixing [8-14]. Nevertheless, their intricate 
channel topologies are often difficult to fabricate. More 
importantly, it may lead the bio-sample to foul within 
dead-volumes due to the complex structures. In contrast, 
active mixers require external energy to improve mixing 
performance through periodic perturbation or chaotic 
advection of the flow fields [15-21]. The active approaches 
of the micromixers usually require complicated and 
expensive fabrication process either for the hydrodynamic 
or electrokinetic-based actuation and thus the abilities to 
integrate active mixers with other microfluidic components 
have been limited. Recently, Tseng et al. demonstrated a 
rotary micropump to both automatically transport and mix 
the injected samples by using four controllable membranes 
[22]. Such a device provides efficient mixing performance 
for bio-reaction. It also dramatically reduces the size of the 
microfluidic system. Such a microfluidic device capable of 
transporting and mixing of bio-samples can be used for the 
viral incubation process with magnetic beads such that 
target viruses can be specifically conjugated onto the 
surface of the surface-treated beads. 
Moreover, this bead-based pretreatment and enrichment 
process was reported for the detection of extremely low 
concentration bio-samples [23]. Using paramagnetic beads 
to conjugate target antigen/antibodies or DNA segments 
has attracted considerable interest [24-27]. Recently, Lien 
et al. reported the usage of magnetic beads to purify the 
target virus by using superparamagnetic beads on a single 
chip platform. The experimental data showed that this 
technique can obtain comparable result to the traditional 
method using the RNA extraction kit [28]. The integrated 
microfluidic system can perform purification, enrichment 
of viruses and perform reverse transcription polymerase 
chain reaction (RT-PCR) automatically. Currently, 
research into bio-separator designs that can separate target 
virus samples from a solution for virus detection using 
microsystem technologies is still crucial. For example, 
Ramadan et al. reported a series of studies to investigate 
and characterize the geometry of the planar microcoils 
[29-31]. However, most of the studies do not explore the 
temperature effect caused by Joule heating resulting from a 
  4
220 
225 
pumping and mixing performance is 
230 
Fabrication 
 fabrication process for the microfluidic 
235 
Fabrication of the microfluidic control module 
 process 
240 
245 
250 
260 
Fabrication of the bead-collection module 
tation of the 
270 
280 
285 
 
ssembled by 290 
5 
Results and discussion 
uidic system, the characterization 
300 
perform purification and enrichment of virus samples by 
capturing specific target viruses on the magnetic beads and 
then collecting these beads using microcoils within the 
pretreatment chamber. A local magnetic field attracted the 
magnetic beads in the pretreatment chamber when a 
current was supplied to the microcoils. A thermoelectric 
cooler (TEC1-01703-CN, HUALENG, China) was used to 
lower the high temperatures caused by Joule heating of the 
microcoils.  
The fluid 
systematically explored by using a charge-coupled device 
(CCD; Model TE/CCD512TKM, Roper Scientific, 
Princeton, NJ, U.S.A.) to capture time lapse images. The 
fluid samples used are de-ionized (DI) water and 
fluorescent dye. While analyzing the experimental data, the 
images are used to show the efficiency of the mixed fluids. 
265 
A simplified
system is schematically shown in Fig. 3. Making the 
PDMS microfluidic control module and the 
bead-collection module are the two major process steps. 275 
Figures 3(a)-(g) illustrate the simplified fabrication
for the microfluidic control module. The template is first 
formed on the silicon substrate by using a standard 
lithography process. SU-8_50 negative thick PR 
(Photoresist) is first spin-coated on a silicon wafer before a 
soft bake process (Fig. 3(b)). After soft baking, a standard 
lithography is performed to define the microstructure (Fig. 
3(c)). The SU-8 is then developed to obtain a SU-8 
template (Fig. 3(d)). Post-exposure baking and 
flood-exposure after development are necessary to assure a 
firm microstructure. Then, a double-layer microfluidic 
structure is formed by using a PDMS casting fabrication 
process (Fig. 3(e)). The Elastomer and its curing agent are 
mixed thoroughly in the ratio of 10:1 and poured onto the 
SU-8 mold. A vacuum pump is used to eliminate air 
bubbles generated from the mixing process. The PDMS is 
then cured in a 100°C oven. After the casting process, the 
inverse PDMS structure can be mechanically peeled off 
from the template (Fig. 3(f)). Similarly, another PDMS 
layer can be fabricated using the same approach and then 
bonding with the first PDMS layer to form the microfluidic 
control module (Fig. 3g). SEM photographs of the 
developed rotary micropump and microvalve are shown in 
Figures 4(a) and 4(b). 
29
255 
Figures 3(h)-(j) show a schematic represen
bead-collection module comprising of 14 microcoils 
embedded in a rotary fluidic channel. Planar microcoils are 
fabricated using a standard lithography and electroplating 
processes [34]. The width of each coil is 100µm. Coils 
with three different thicknesses (4, 12, and 20µm, 
respectively) were fabricated to investigate their resulting 
thermal and magnetic fields. The process starts with a glass 
substrate, onto which a seed layer consisting of 30 nm 
chromium (Cr) and 200 nm copper (Cu) is deposited using 
electron-beam evaporation. A photoresist layer (AZ 4620, 
Clariant Corp., Switzerland) is then deposited on top of the 
seed layer and patterned to form molds for the microcoils 
(Fig. 3h). Next, Cu coils are electroplated. Upon 
completion of the electroplating, the photoresist mold is 
removed with acetone, and the Cu layer of the seed layer is 
etched using Cr etchant solution (Cr-7T, CYANTEK Corp., 
USA), and the Cr layer removal is accomplished using 
diluted hydrochloric acid (5M HCl) (Fig. 3i). A 5µm-thick 
SU-8 layer  (MicroChem Corp., MA, USA), which serves 
as an insulation layer, is spin-coated on top of the Cu coils 
and cured at 120oC for 1 hour, after removing the 
photoresist and the seed layer (Fig. 3j). The inner and outer 
radii of the center circle for a single planar coil are 200 and 
microcoils are shown in Figures 4(c) and (d). 
Finally, the integrated microfluidic chip is a
(f) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
 (e) 
(g) 
(h) 
(a) 
(i) 
(j) 
(k) 
Figure 3. The lified fabrication process for the  integrate
(a) (c) (b) 
400 µm, respectively. The SEM imagines of the planar
bonding the PDMS and glass substrates together using an 
oxygen plasma treatment (Fig. 3k). The inner and outer 
radii of the center circle of the rotary channel are 1750 and 
2250 µm, respectively. The width and height of the 
channels is 1000 and 100 µm, respectively. 
In the developed microfl
of the microfluidic control module and the bead-collection 
module is first performed. Then purification and 
enrichment of the viruses are then explored. In addition to 
this experimental approach, a numerical simulation was 
applied to the design of microcoils and the resulting 
magnetic fields were investigated. The magnetic fields and 
forces were simulated numerically using a commercial 
 
(d) 
Figure M images icro devices ar own as follow ) the  4. SE of m e sh s: (a
simp d rotary micropump master mold ;(b) the microvalve master mold. SU-8 
structures on a Si wafer of a (c) bead-collection separator made of 14 
microcoils, and (d) a single microcoil. 
microfluidic chip. (a)~(c) fabrication of micro electromagnets
(d)~(j)fabrication of the microfluidic control module and (k) bonding
process of the integrated chip. 
  6
395 
400 
405 
410 
415 
420 
the magnetic field of the microcoils was measured as a 
n processes. 425 
 measured 
430 
435 
445 
observed through the microscope when the DC 
450 
455 
peristaltic pneumatic micropump [28] and the second one 
used the developed rotary micropump. After the incubation 
process, RT-PCR was performed on the conjugated viruses 
such that the fluorescent signal intensity of the slab-gel 
electropherogram was used to characterize the 
performance of the incubation process. Figure 7(a) shows 
that the virus sample and antibody-coated magnetic beads 
being pumped from the virus sample/beads chamber to the 
RT-PCR reaction chamber by using the peristaltic 
pneumatic micropump. Figure 7(b) is the result when two 
samples are mixed using the rotary mixer. Experimental 
results indicate that it only takes 140 seconds for the 
peristaltic pneumatic micropumped samples to reach the 
maximum intensity (Fig. 7(a)). Contrastingly, the rotary 
micropumped samples only require 20 seconds to attain the 
maximum value (Fig. 7(b)). This reveals that the current 
mixer, i.e. the rotary mixer, exhibited a 7 times better 
mixing performance for the bio-reaction. However, the 
fluorescent intensity decayed with increasing operation 
time. This may be caused by the fact that the binding 
affinity between the antibodies and Dengue virus serotype 
2 is reduced by the increasing agitation. Notably, it takes 
20 sec to transport two samples for complete processing 
using the rotary mixer. Every operating cycle using the 
experimental observation, the mixing cycle of the rotary 
mixer is set to be one to take this effect into consideration.  
Characterization of the micro bio-separater 
  Prior to exploring the performance of the bio-separator, 
rotary mixer only takes 4/17 sec (Fig. 7b). Based on this 
function of applied DC currents in the separatio
The magnetic field and the temperature were
using a Tesla meter (TM-401, KANETEC, Japan) and a 
thermocouple (DE-3003, DER EE, Taiwan). Microcoils 
with three thicknesses, 4, 12, and 20µm, respectively, were 
fabricated and tested. The magnetic field and the 
temperature varied with the applied currents for the 
different height of planar coils and the results are shown in 
Fig. 8. As expected, experimental data show a quadratic 
relation between the magnetic field and the applied DC 
currents. However, the temperature also increases with the 
increasing applied DC currents. Meanwhile, both the 
magnetic filed and temperature also increased with the 
bio-samples, a DC current of 0.5 A and a height of 12 µm 
were chosen for the microcoils for separation testing 
purposes. 
A separation test was then performed by flowing magnetic 
beads through the rotary channel while a DC current was 
applied through the microcoils. The average diameter of 
these beads is 2.8 µm. An initial movement of the magnetic 
beads was 
height of the coils. In order to avoid thermal damage to the 
Appliedcurrent(A)
Te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
(o C
)
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
h= 4 m
h=12 m
h=20 m
µ
µ
µ
h=4 m
h=12 m
h=20 m
µ
µ
µ
Appliedcurrent(A)
M
ag
ne
tic
fie
ld
(g
au
ss
)
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 10
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
440 
current was not applied on the microcoils (Fig. 9(a)). At a 
current of 0.5 A, the microcoils produced a magnetic field 
with a magnitude up to 35 gauss so that the collection of 
beads was achieved. The magnetic beads are then 
successfully collected on the bottom of the channel as 
shown in Fig. 9(b). This result indicted the microcoils can 
successfully attract the magnetic beads capturing the 
specific virus in the separation process. Notably, it was 
clearly seen that more magnetic beads were captured at the 
0
20 21 22 23 24 25
20
40
60
80
0            5            10           15   (Cycle)  
0
0 40 80 120 160 200 240 280 320
20
40
60
80
Fl
uo
re
sc
en
ce
 in
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.) 
(b)(a)
Figure 8. (a) The magnetic field and (b) the temperature for different 
applied DC currents on the planar microcoils, respectively. 
Time (sec) 
(a) 
Fl
uo
re
sc
en
ce
 in
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.) 
Time (sec) 
(b) 
Figure 7. The relationship between the fluorescence intensity and
operation time for (a) the peristaltic pneumatic micropump and (b) the
rotary pump, respectively. 
(a) (b) 
(c) (d) 
Figure 9.  Photographs of the planar microcoils which produces the 
magnetic field to attract the magnetic beads in the rotary channel. (a) 
without an applied DC current; (b) with an applied DC current of 0.5 A; 
(c) only the targeted virus remains after washing; (d) the applied DC 
current was turned off. 
  8
535 
540 
545 
550 
555 
560 
565 
575 
580 
585 
590 
As shown in Fig. 13(a), lanes 1-6 show that successful 
amplification of cDNA has been achieved by utilizing 
magnetic beads in the developed microfluidic system.  
The 171-bp fragment represents the successful detection of 
the Dengue virus serotype 2, and the lane “L” is the 100 bp 
ladder DNA markers (Yeastern Biotech Corp., Taiwan). 
The concentrations of the virus samples range from 107 to 
101pfu/ml for lanes 1-6. The limit of detection for this 
virus is experimentally found to be 102 pfu/ml in the 
developed system as shown in Fig. 13(a). Figure 13(b) 
shows a comparison of PCR products using a traditional 
method using the magnetic beads (Lane 1), the developed 
microfluidic system (Lane 2), and the proposed device 
with negative control (i.e. without magnetic beads to 
capture the viruses) (Lane 3), respectively. The signal 
intensity shows that the new microfluidic device has 
results similar to the traditional method. However, the 
proposed integrated chip requires much less time than the 
traditional method (see Table 1). Moreover, enrichment of 
the virus samples is also one of the major advantages when 
using magnetic beads for purifying viruses in the 
developed integrated system. The low concentration of the 
virus sample was significantly enriched with this approach, 
i.e. the small amount of viruses sample can be concentrated 
and collected with the magnetic beads. As shown in Fig. 
13(c), the experimental imagines show that the same 
amount of virus with different volumes of buffers could 
end up with the same amount of RT-PCR product after 
enrichment of the virus sample by using the developed 
system. The fixed amount of viruses is 102pfu when mixed 
with the increasing volume of buffer from 5ml (lane 1) to 
1ml (lane 5). The experimental results show that using the 
magnetic beads to collect and concentrate target viruses 
obtains the same signal intensity as RT-PCR products. 
Conclusions 
This study has demonstrated a new integrated microfluidic 
system for sample purification and enrichment. Viruses 
can be successfully mixed, collected and purified in an 
automatic process by using the magnetic beads and rotary 
microfluidic devices. Optimum conditions for this rotary 
micromixer with an applied pressure of 20 psi, a frequency 
of 17 Hz and a cycle number of 1, respectively, were 
experimentally determined. Additionally, temperature 
effects caused by the planar microcoils was taken into 
consideration and an optimal applied current of 0.5 A was 
then chosen. Finally, this developed integrated system was 
used to successfully perform the purification and 
enrichment of Dengue virus serotype 2. The detection of 
Dengue virus serotype 2 can be achieved with a 
concentration as low as 10
570 
2 pfu/ml. The developed system, 
which integrated a rotary pump, a separator, and a mixer, 
can become a crucial platform in biological and medical 
applications for rapid clinical diagnosis of viruses. 
Acknowledgments 
The authors would like to thank partial financial support 
from the National Science Council in Taiwan. Access to 
major fabrication equipment at the Center for Micro/Nano 
Technology Research, National Cheng Kung University is 
also greatly appreciated. 
Table 1 Operation process of the microfluidic chip compared to the traditional method for bio-sample pre-treatment. 
Operation process Microfluidic Chip Traditional Method 
Incubation process 
Bio-sample (25µl) with antibody-conjugated magnetic 
beads (25µl) in the rotary microchannel at a flow rate of 
160µl /min for 20s. 
Bio-sample (25µl) with antibody-conjugated  magnetic 
beads (25µl) in a large-scale shaker for 30 min. 
Beads collection 
Block the mixed bio-samples in the rotary 
microchannel and attract the magnetic beads onto the 
surface of the integrated chip by the on-chip microcoils 
for 5 min. 
Put an eppendorf tube onto the large-scale permanent 
magnet stand for 5 min. 
Washing process 
Flow the phosphate buffered solution (PBS) washing 
buffer through the channel to exclude all the other 
substances at a flow rate of 20µl /min for 5 min. 
Use a pipette to extract all the other substances 
suspending in the tube and add clean PBS buffer twice 
for 10 min. 
Enrichment process 
Turn off the magnetic field and collect the magnetic 
beads with a volume of 25µl at a flow rate of 160µl 
/min for 15s. 
Remove the large-scale permanent magnet stand and 
add the buffer with a volume of 25µl in the tube for 3 
min. 
Total time 10 min 35 s 48 min 
Figure 12. The trapping ratio of the planar microcoils (h=12 µm) at
different flow velocities. 
Mean velocity (mm/s)
Tr
ap
pi
ng
ra
tio
(%
)
0 1 2 3 4 5 60
20
40
60
80
100
Figure 13. Slab-gel electropherograms from the microfluidic RT-PCR 
chip. (a) The detection limit of Dengue viruses is 102pfu/ml (lane 5). (b) 
Dengue virus in clinical serum (lane 1: traditional method; lane 2: 
developed microfluidic system using magnetic beads; lane 3: negative 
control). Note that Lane “L” represents the 100 bp ladder DNA 
markers. (c) Enrichment of virus sample by using the developed 
microfluidic system. A fixed amount of viruses of 102pfu is mixed with 
the increasing volume of buffer from 5ml (lane 1) to 1ml (lane 4) and 
can end up with the same amount of RT-PCR product. 
L    1     2     3     4      5      6   L    1     2     3
(a) (b)
L     1     2      3     4     5
(c)
