Deployment-Results-Improvement (ADRI). ADRI is particularly appropriate in quality 
assessment because of their fundamentally integrated nature. 
On the stage of approach, the department sets up its own educational goals and objectives 
related to the university and college mission statements, visions and values. It may culminate in 
specified learning outcomes. On deployment stage, the department designs curriculum program 
according to the objectives and considers whether, and how effectively, the program is being 
put into effect.  The numbers highlighted in the figure 1 represent the procedures of collecting 
the results after teaching or from advisory board. Analyzing the results is the means for 
determining how well the deployment is achieving the planned approach. Finally, on 
improvement stage, the department should focus on understanding its performance and using 
its understanding to implement ongoing improvement. 
 
University Missions
 
D
eploym
ent 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Education Quality System 
 
3. Outcome-based Assessment System 
The role of performance assessment is at the first place of outcome-base education. Byrne 
(1998) outlines details of key pilot projects which formalized quality assessment and quality 
improvement program undertaken at University College in 1998/1999. Brackin (1999) proposed 
that quality function deployment process is used as a tool for understanding the assessment of 
academic programs and meeting the continuous improvement requirements embedded in 
Engineering Criteria 2000. But this approach has its disadvantage for lack of considering the 
needs of market. Ben-David (1999) highlighted important relation between assessment and 
outcome based program. He also set up assessment premises and implementation of 
assessment program in outcome-based education. In the same year, Dodridge emphasized the 
strong links between the learning outcomes, the assessment criteria and the assessment 
methods. Lyons and Bayoumi (2000) developed a continuous quality improvement process to 
establish outcome-base assessment. The process only focuses on the way to assess the 
Time 
Employer 
Advisory Board 
College Missions 
Department 
Objectives 
Teachers Resources 
Curriculum 
Board
Course A 
Course B
Students 
Alumni Graduates 
Course D
Course C
A
pproah 
Improvement 
Results 
verified by the results of survey from alumni and their supervisors. Wilcoxon signed-rank test is 
applied in this stage because it is approriate for small sample. 
 
Outcome-base Assessment System 
Intermediate Long 
 
Figure 2 Structure of the Outcome-based Assessment System 
 
4. Improvement processes for program and curriculum 
All the results of outcome assessment launch the mechanism of improvements for curriculum 
and program. On the contrary to assessment, improvement is a top-down process. According to 
the performance assessment, the effective suggestions of improvement are set up by using 
opportunity windows with two dimensions: importance and satisfaction. The results of these two 
measures should be the main contributors to the determination of where to focus guture 
Short Terms 
Semesterly Frequency Annually Three-yearly 
z Graded Course 
Works 
z Learnig  
Outcomes 
z Learning and 
Teaching 
Ex
z Program 
Outcomes 
z Learning and 
Teaching 
Ex
z Program 
Outcomes 
z Student 
Teaching 
Evaluation 
z Teacher Self -
Evaluations 
Tools  
z Graduating 
Senior surveys 
z Alumi Survey 
z Employer 
Survey 
z Advisory 
Survey 
z Teaching 
Effectiveness 
Analysis 
z Teaching 
Efficiency 
Analysis 
Purposes 
z Conformity 
Analyis 
z Improvement 
Analysis 
z Suitability 
Analysis 
z Conformity 
Analyis 
z Improvement 
Analysis 
z Descriptive 
Statistics 
z Data 
Envelopment 
Analysis 
Analytical 
Methods 
z Radar Graphs 
z Opportunity 
Windows 
z Wilcoxon 
Signed-Rank 
Test 
z Radar Graphs 
z Opportunity 
Windows 
perience 
Quality 
Targets 
perience
 Opportunity Window
4.18
4.29
4.40
4.15 4.33 4.51
Importance
Sa
tisf
ac
tio
n
Objective 3
 
Figure 4 The opportunity window for educational objectives 
of IE&TM 
 
 
Reference 
1. Melvyn Dodridge, Learning Outcomes and Their Assessment in Higher Education, Engineering 
Science and Education Journal, 161-168 (1998). 
2. Miriam Friedman Ben-David, AMEE Guide No. 14: Outcome-based Education: Part 3-
Assessment in Outcome-based Education, Medical Teacher, Vol. 21, No. 1 (1999). 
3. Gerry Byrne, Total Quality Management in Engineering Education-A Case Study from University 
College Dublin, European Journal of Engineering Education, Vol. 23, No, 4, 435-442 (1998). 
4. Peter Knight, The Assessment of Complex Learning Outcomes, International Conference on 
Engineering Education, (2002). 
5. Patricia Brackin and Gloria M. Rogers, Assessment and Quality Improvement Process in 
Engineering and Engineering Education, The 29th ASEE/IEEE Frontiers in Education Conference, 11a1, 
21-25 (1999). 
6. Joanne Ingham, Data Warehousing: A Tool for the Outcomes Assessment Process, IEEE 
Transactions on Education, Vol. 43, No. 2, 132-136 (2000). 
7. James P. McCoy, Don Chamberlain, and Rob Seay, The Status and Perceptions of University 
Outcomes Assessment in Economics, Journal of Economic Education, 358-366 (1994). 
8. Ronald A. Berk, Survey of 12 Strategies to Measure Teaching Effectiveness, International Journal 
of Teaching and Learning in Higher Education, Vol. 17, No. 1 48-62 (2005). 
9. Carmen Pozo-Munoz, Enrique Rebolloso-Pacheco, Baltasar Fernandez-Ramirez, The “Ideal 
Teacher”. Implications for Student Evaluation of Teacher Effectiveness, Assessment and Evaluation in 
Higher Education, Vol. 25, No. 3, 253-263 (2000). 
10. Charles A. Reavis and Valerian J. Derlega, Test of a Contingency Model of Teacher 
Effectiveness, The Journal of Educational Research, 221-225 (2001). 
11. Michael Leeds, William Stull and Jilleen Westbrook, Do Changes in Classroom Techniques 
Matter? Teaching Strategies and Their Effects on Teaching Evaluations, Journal of Education for 
Business, Vol. 74, No. 2, 75-78 (1998). 
12. Jed S. Lyons and Abdel M. Bayoumi, CQI Process, Results, and Program Improvements for 
Engineering Design, IEEE Transactions on Education, vol. 43, No. 2 (2000). 
bjective 3 
Objective 1 
Objective 2 Objective 4 
