1 
 
DNA 侷限於帶狀平面之行為及其應用 
Behavior of DNA confined in a strip and its application 
Chih-Chen Hsieh(謝之真)  
Chemical Engineering Department, National Taiwan University 
 
Abstract 
Inspired by the recent applications that separate and sequence DNA molecules using slit-like and 
tube-like confinement, we expect that similar applications can be realized in strip confinement with 
lower expense and higher efficiency. However, studies related to polymer in strip confinement are 
very few, and thus we propose first to investigate the feasibility of the idea using simulations. We 
first develop a Brownian dynamics (BD) scheme suitable for simulating polymer behavior in  
two-dimensional space. The excluded volume effect that prevents polymer segments from 
overlapping with each other is enforced by a repulsive potential between springs, as contrast to the 
traditionally employed repulsive potential between beads. The conformation, diffusivity, and the 
longest relaxation time of chains are examined by simulations in both surface and strip confinement 
as functions of the chain length and the strip width. The simulation results are found in good 
agreement with the predictions given by the scaling theories with the exception of the relaxation 
dynamics of a surface confined chain. Our results also indicate that strip confinement has strong 
potential to replace tube-like confinement as the most efficient device for DNA stretching. 
 
Keywords: confined polymer, strip confinement, surface confinement, Brownian dynamics 
 
1. Introduction 
Polymer behavior under confinement has long been a research interest due to its fundamental 
and practical importance. The applications include various separation processes, oil extraction from 
porous media and genomics assays. Among them, separation of biomolecules and DNA stretching 
for gene mapping and sequencing using confined geometry have attracted more attention even in the 
post-genome era[1]. However, these technologies are all based on the tube-like[2-3] and slit-like 
[4-5]confinement. These devices are typically created on silicon dioxide substrate with 
semiconductor manufacturing processes, and thus are difficult and expensive to produce. Inspired by 
these examples, we expect that it should be possible to create similar applications with other types of 
confinement that are cheaper and easier to make, such as surface and strip confinement.  
 
3 
 
polymer will experience stronger confinement effect in strip confinement that in tube-like 
confinement. 
In the literatures, we have found no experimental studies that have investigated the polymer 
behavior in strip confinement. Therefore, it is better to first understand the feasibility of our idea by 
simulations. However, while there are few simulation studies dealing with a polymer chain confined 
in strip, they were constructed upon lattice-based Monte Carlo method[6] which is not capable to 
give a quantitative prediction of polymer behavior. The focus of the past simulations is typically to 
test the prediction of the scaling relationship between polymer conformation and the degree of 
confinement given by the mean-field theory. However, the lack of a more quantitative simulation 
technique prevents the advance of understanding of the behavior of real polymer. It is not difficult to 
develop an off-lattice Monte Carlo model that is able to give at least some desired information. 
However, such simulations will be hugely time-consuming even for relative short chain because 
most of the possible movement will be rejected to meet the self-avoiding requirement. Thus, our 
goal of this study is to create a more realistic and more efficient simulation scheme to foster the 
development of future applications based on surface and strip confinement. 
To achieve our goal, we choose to develop a Brownian dynamics simulation scheme suitable for 
simulating polymer in 2-dimension. Brownian dynamics simulation is the most effective method that 
is capable to predict polymer behavior at realistic time and length scales. The method has been 
shown able to predict correctly the conformation and dynamics of polymer chains in 3-dimensional 
(3D) space in various complicate flow fields and conditions[7-9]. Although adapting standard BD for 
simulating polymer in 2-dimensional (2D) space seems straightforward, we notice that it is critical to 
properly include the so called “excluded volume” effect. Such effect prevents the polymer segments 
from crossing and overlapping with each other. While the excluded volume is a universal property of 
polymer, it has stronger influence on polymer behavior in 2D than in 3D. The most evident proof of 
the excluded volume effect for 2-dimensional polymer was given by the studies of Maier and 
Rädler.[10-12] In their studies, DNA molecules were absorbed on a planar supported lipid membrane, 
and their conformations were found never overlapped. In typical molecular and Brownian dynamics 
simulations, the excluded volume effect is modeled by a repulsive potential between particles (or 
beads)[13]. Although this approach indeed yields the correct scaling of the chain size versus its linear 
length in 3D space, the repulsive potential between beads does not really prevent segments from 
overlapping. This might not be that a serious problem for simulating polymer in 3-dimensional space 
because there is very little chance that two segments overlap even without the excluded volume. 
However, the segment overlapping can happen frequently for a 2-dimensional chain because all 
segments of the chain are limited to moveon a plane. 
A more reliable way to prevent segment overlapping is to apply a repulsive potential between 
springs (or rods) as proposed by Kumar and Larson[14-15]. However, this approach has not yet been 
thoroughly tested even for 3-dimensioal chains. Since the excluded volume effect plays a dominant 
role for 2-dimensional polymer in reality, we choose to implement the spring-spring repulsion in our 
5 
 
Rsr AeU α−=            (3) 
where parameter A defines the strength, and parameter α controls the ranges of the repulsive 
potential. Comparing to other popular potential such as power-law functions, the repulsive potential 
employed here does not diverges as R→0. As a consequence, spring overlapping cannot be totally 
avoided if other forces acting on a springs are relatively larger than the spring-spring repulsive force. 
However, such incidents can be much reduced by tuning the strength of the potential and by using 
an implicit method to treat the springs. Once the repulsive force is determined, it acts on the points 
that define the shortest distance between two springs, and is distributed to the connecting beads with 
a simple lever rule relation. In the current study, we set A to be 5 and α to be 20 so that the repulsive 
potential decays fast relative to the length scale of a spring while a reasonable time step can still be 
employed. When simulating polymer chains in strip confinement, a repulsive potential Ubound 
between the boundary and the chain is also required. The boundary repulsive force acts directly on 
each beads, and is chosen to be described by the same functions as Eq. (2) and (3) as well. 
Therefore,  
 RF; ∂∂−== − boundboundRbound UAeU α      (4) 
where R is the distance between the boundary and the bead.  
To perform the Brownian dynamics simulations, one actually solves the force balance 
equations of each bead in each time step. The dimensionless form of the force balance for i-th bead 
can be expressed as[17]: 
( ) iboundibsribspii dtdtd n/FFF/r /,, 216+++=       (5) 
where ri is the coordinate vector of bead i, dt is the time step, Fisp,b is the overall spring force acting 
 
Figure 2. Illustration of the repulsive force between springs. The dashed lines represent the 
distance R used in the repulsive potential (Eq. 2). The bold arrows show the direction of the 
repulsive forces. (a) is the most common case that two springs are close but not overlapped. In 
this case, the force is determined using the closest distance between the springs, and is distributed 
by a simple lever rule. (b) is the situation when the closest distance between two springs is the 
separation between ends of the springs. The repulsive force is acting on the ends of the springs 
along R direction. (c) is the case when two springs overlap with each other (R=0). The repulsive 
force pushes two springs apart. The repulsive force acts on the overlapping point, and is normal 
to the spring that has the overlapping points closer to its center. 
7 
 
interaction between polymer segments, the diffusivity (Dsurface) of the chain will be inversely 
proportional to the drag coefficient that depends linearly on the chain length. Therefore, one 
obtained: 
1~ −NDsurface             (10) 
The longest relaxation time (τsurface) can be derived to scale as:  
5/22 ~/~ NDR surfacesurfacesurfaceτ         (11) 
Based on the above scaling arguments, we can further deduce the corresponding scaling laws 
for polymer confined in strip with a smallest dimension d by applying de Gennes’ blob theory[19-20] 
to a 2-dimensional chain. For polymer chain confined in a strip, it can be considered as forming a 
string of blobs. Based on Eq. (9), such a 2-dimentional blob with a diameter d contains g ~ d4/3 
segments. As a result, a chain contains (N/g) blobs. Since these blobs will line up along the strip, the 
nominal size of the polymer chain in strip (Rstrip ) is expected to follow: 
3/1~)/(~ −NddgNRstrip          (12) 
The scaling law given by Eq. (12) predicts two things. Firstly, the nominal size of a polymer 
confined in a strip will grow linearly with the molecular weight. In other words, the degree of 
extension of such a confined polymer is independent of the molecular weight. Secondly, the chain 
extension grows inversely with the width of the strip. Thus, chain extension increases with 
decreasing strip width.  
Regarding to the dynamics of the chain confined in a strip, the diffusivity of such a chain will 
remain the same as those confined on a surface and is independent of the degree of the confinement 
due to the lack of the hydrodynamic interactions between its segments. As the consequence,  
Dstrip~ N -1            (13) 
To derive the scaling for the longest relaxation time, we follow de Gennes’ arguments used for 
polymer relaxation in tube-like confinement[20], 
3/22~/~ dNDdR stripstripstripτ         (14) 
Eq. (14) predicts that polymer confined in a strip will relax faster as the strip becomes narrower. This 
is in contrast to the scaling of the relaxation time of polymer chain confined in a tube where polymer 
relaxes slower as the tube becomes narrower.  
 
4. Results and discussions 
We first examine the ability of our model for simulating the behavior of a surface confined 
chain. We simulate the chains with N=10, 20, 40, and 80 rods at equilibrium, and measure their 
end-to-end distance square, diffusivity and the longest relaxation time. To simplify the discussion, 
9 
 
situations that different segments overlap with each other and found less than 4% out of total steps. 
Fig. 4b shows that the diffusivity of the chains scales as N-1, also in consistent with the scaling theory 
(Eq.(10)). However, the simulated τsurface deviates from the predicted scaling (Eq.(11)) as N increases. 
This deviation is likely to be the consequence of applying the repulsive force between springs in our 
simulations. The way we choose to apply the spring-spring repulsion is somewhat arbitrary, and thus, 
although enforcing the excluded volume effect, disturbs the dynamics of the springs and alters the 
relaxation of the chain. We will seek alternative ways to impose the excluded volume to the chain 
segments without changing the chain dynamics. 
We then test our model in strip confinement. We primarily perform the simulations with chains 
of 40 rods, while few with those of 80 rods. Figure 5 provides a qualitative comparison of the 
configuration of a 40-spring random-walk chain and a self-avoiding chain in surface and strip 
 
Figure 4 (a) The end-to-end distance square and (b) the longest relaxation time and the diffusivity 
of surface-confined chains versus the chain length. In (a), the end-to-end distance square of a 2D 
random walk chain is also plotted for reference. The guidelines in (a) and (b) are predictions from 
the scaling arguments. 
11 
 
regardless of the degree of confinement, again in agreement with the prediction of Eq. (13). The 
change of the relaxation time of chain in strip (τstrip) is expressed as (τstrip/τsurface) as a function of strip 
width d. As also shown in Fig. 6, τstrip varies with N2/3, as predicted in Eq. (14). The results also 
demonstrate that chains confined in a strip relax faster than those in surface confinement. This result 
is somewhat counter-intuitive since experimental results for DNA confined in tube-like and slit-like 
channel shows that DNA relaxes slower as the channel size decreases. The cause of these different 
trends for the relaxation time is actually due to the lack of hydrodynamic interactions in our 
simulations. For DNA in tube-like and slit-like channels, the solvent is water, and hydrodynamic 
interactions between polymer segments exist at the length scale d. Since the hydrodynamic 
interactions becomes weaker with decreasing channel size, the drag force acting on the polymer 
increases, and therefore increases the relaxation time. In addition to the scaling, we notice that the 
value of (τstrip/τsurface) approaches 1 at d about 10. This is also consistent with the fact that <x>=10.8 
for a surface confined chain. 
 
5. Conclusions 
In summary, we have developed an efficient Brownian dynamics scheme to simulate polymer as 
a self-avoiding chain in surface and strip confinement. The excluded volume effect is accounted for 
by unconventional spring-spring repulsion. With the newly developed scheme, we investigate the 
conformation, diffusivity, and the longest relaxation time of confined chains. The simulation results 
are found in good agreement with the predictions given by the scaling theories with the exception of 
the relaxation dynamics for a surface confined chain. The degree of the extension of a polymer chain 
 
Fig 6. The normalized extension and longest relaxation time of strip confined chains versus the 
dimension of the strip. The guidelines indicate the scaling laws predicted by de Gennes’ blob 
theory. 
