國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是
否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評
估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 █撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
在學術科學研究方面，本研究所呈現結果，有助釐清互動介面設計常用效
標間之關係，包括喜好度、美感、可用性和色差等效標。另外，本研究亦
間接說明三個層級的情感反應模型的妥適性。 
在設計應用方面，本研究發現，互動式介面之評估應同時評估其美感主觀
偏好和客觀可用性，而不是主觀可用性評估。本研究發現，這二者(美感主
觀偏好和客觀視認度)之評估方式並無顯著相關，而二者却是影響介面評價
的二個向度。產品可用性程度的提昇，可使產品功能發揮無礙，提高使用
績效。另外，在美感的評價則可使使用者產生正向的情緒，趨使正向使用
產品，進而使可用性品質提昇。 
但，目前本研究只是以視認度做為可用性評估之效標，所以，有些推論仍屬
薄弱，未來將再強化討論其他可用性效標與主觀評價間之關係，使二者的關
係的証據更為明顯充份。 
 
 
 2
aesthetic scores was high correlated with perceived 
usability before use; but not correlated with perceived 
usability right after use.   
Besides, the rating consistency of product usability was 
mainly decided by biological cognition mechanism with the 
fewer influences from culture, education and training. The 
consistency referred that the judgment consistency to 
product attributes between subjects (Huang, 2006; Huang, 
2007).  However, the rating consistency of product 
aesthetics was influenced by users’ self-image, personal 
memories and situations. Therefore, the rating consistency 
of product usability was lower than aesthetic ratings.  It 
seemed that, the level of aesthetics construct is higher than 
perceived usability; these two constructs are not in the 
same level in fact.  Therefore, the correlation between 
perceived usability and aesthetics might be significant, but 
not high.   
Nevertheless, previous studies did not agree the statement 
above and showed high correlations between perceived 
usability and perceptions of interface aesthetics (Tractinsky, 
1997; Tractinsky, Katz and Ikar, 2000). The reason might 
be that the priming effect influenced the correlations 
between them.  In previous studies, the judgment of 
aesthetics, perceived usability and satisfaction were 
successively performed one after another.  The preceded 
judgment might influence the succeeded responses.  
Consequently, the priming effect resulted in high 
correlation between these judgments. 
1-2. Perceived usability and actual usability 
Two approaches are used to evaluate usability: subjective 
usability (related to perceived usability mentioned above) 
and objective usability. Perceived usability was a kind of 
subjective judgment involving in the emotion mechanism 
in limbric system which might sway subjects’ judgment.  
Before using systems, subjects’ judgment of perceived 
usability might be mainly based on their own stereotypes 
formed from previous experiences because they did not use 
them.  However, the stereotypes were mainly subject to 
reflective levels of brain processing.  Therefore, the 
correlations between perceived usability (before use) and 
aesthetics were highly significant. Besides, the consistency 
of usability judgment is low.  However, after using the 
system, subjects’ judgment of perceived usability was 
mainly based on these experiences in behavioral level of 
brain processing. Therefore, the correlations between 
perceived usability (before use) and perceived usability 
(after use) were not significant. Besides, the consistency of 
perceived usability judgment (after use) was higher than 
that of perceived usability (before use).  This could 
explain Tractinsky et al. (2000) findings that the correlation 
between post-experimental perceptions of system usability 
and pre-experimental perceptions was significantly low 
(r=0.48).  The judgment of usability was affected by 
behavioral levels of brain processing.  Due to users no 
using experience, the reflective levels processed the 
judgment of usability before use.  However, after using 
the product, subjects could recognize its usability more 
precisely, and might modify their previous concept of the 
product usability.  Hence, the perceived usability before 
using the products might be rated either higher or lower 
than perceived usability after using.  
Besides, objective usability measured product ease of use 
by measuring measurable criterions which could be used to 
explain product usability.  For instance, glance legibility 
which measured the correct ratio for a specific design by 
conducting a planned task was used to represent the 
usability of the design.  The effect of emotional responses 
of reflective levels on objective usability was few because 
subjects’ brain cortex works mainly when they perform the 
cognition task.  Therefore, the consistency of objective 
usability measurement for a specific design was high.  
However, the consistency of subjective usability 
measurement was low because usability judgments were 
not only swayed by actual usability, but also by emotion 
factors.  Therefore, it might be that the correlations 
between perceived usability and objective usability might 
be significant, but the level of significance might be low. 
1-3 Preference, attractiveness, appeal, and pleasure 
Frequently, several HCI studies asked subjects to rate the 
aesthetics, preference, attractiveness, appeal or pleasure of 
the interfaces to evaluate system interfaces.  In some 
paper, attractiveness, appeal and pleasure were deemed as 
the synonyms, or related to the concepts, of aesthetics.  
Strictly speaking, it is hard to convince me that subjects 
would treat them as the same concept.  Aesthetics is an 
integrated value judgment of affects arising from, or 
influenced by, the interaction between product attributes 
and user beliefs. But, Pleasure describes the broad class of 
mental states that humans experience as positive, enjoyable, 
or worth seeking.  This positive experience could not be 
only elicited by aesthetic appearances, but also by other 
factors, such as accomplishment.  Furthermore, 
attractiveness refers to a quality that causes an interest or 
desire in something.  Appealing is the synonym of 
attractiveness.  Beside aesthetics, several factors would 
also result in attractiveness, or appealing, such as a new 
design arousing user interests.  As for user satisfaction, it 
is overall judgment about the interactive experience with 
products, including judgment of beauty, usability, costs and 
so on (Lindgaard, 2007).  Preferences also refer to the 
assessment of overall impression and satisfaction about the 
system interfaces.  Therefore, the judgment of pleasure, 
attractiveness, appealing, or satisfaction is beyond the 
judgment of aesthetics, and is not suitable as the basis of 
judgment of beauty.  For example, Hassenzahl et al. (2002) 
found a strong correlation between post-use ratings of 
usability and appeal, if the preceding interaction was goal 
directed (partial correlation=0.87).  If subjects were 
instructed to just “have fun” with a system, usability was 
irrelevant to appeal (partial correlation=-0.1).  Subjects 
would largely emphasize his preference rating on system 
 4
2-1. Experimental design 
Excerpt ΔE value calculated by formulas, the data of the 
other four variables, Gleg, SAest, SLeg, and Spref, were 
collected by conducting experimental tests: Glance 
legibility tests, subjective aesthetic ratings, subjective 
legibility ratings and subjective preference rating.  
Therefore, each subject had to perform four experiments.  
To reduce the priming effects, the orders of performing 
these four experiments were randomized, and, subjects 
conducted only an experiment every other day. The 
computer modeled as HP Workstation XW4200 was used 
to control all the experiment procedures; and the 
experimental material is programmed with Director 8.0.  
The ambient room illuminance was about 43 lux at 
observers’ seats. 
2-2 Subjects 
Thirty undergraduate students from the National Formosa 
University in Taiwan were recruited to participate in the 
experiment. Halves of them were males; the other halves 
were females.  They were paid $400 NT dollars for their 
participation in the experiment. Their mean age was 20.7 yr. 
(SD = 1.3).  All subjects reported normal ocular health 
and no clinically significant anomalies of accommodation.  
They had 1.0 correct visual acuity or better and normal 
color vision.  
2-2-1 Glance legibility test 
Subjects were asked to perform the symbol identification 
task. Ten icons used in the experiment of Huang & Shih 
(2004) were used to display each color combination.  The 
glance legibility of each color combination was defined as 
the proportion of the correctly recognized symbols with 
this color combination.  The experiment was programmed 
in computer. Before the test, an answer sheet with 15 icons 
coded with alphabets was given to subjects. Five of the 
fifteen icons were not showed on the test.  At the 
beginning of each test, subjects were asked to look at the 
mark in the center of the display. After they clicked on the 
mark, the white blank page showed out in one second, and 
then one icon with a color combination was presented 
40msec on the center of the display. And then the display 
showed a blank.  Subjects had to choose one icon which 
they believe it was presented in the test from the answer 
sheet, and filled in the blank; and then they clicked on the 
confirmation button below.  Then, the display went into 
next test.  Each subject had to perform 200 trials (=10 
icons × 20 color combinations).  Hence, subjects spent 
less than 30 min to complete the experiment.  
Familiarization was based on 20 training trials with 
additional icon-color combination groups. 
The glance legibility of each color combination is the 
correction proportion of identifying the icons with this 
color combination. The higher correction proportion of 
identification means high usability for that color 
combination. 
2-2-2 Subjective preference rating 
The purpose of this experiment was to collect the 
subjective preference scores for all the color combinations.  
Subjects were asked to perform the comparison tests.  
Sixteen icons arranged horizontally in line in a rectangle.  
The color was assigned to the icons and the rectangle as the 
background color for each color combination.  The color 
outside the rectangle was black. 
Each comparison test randomly showed two 
icon-background color combinations on the display screen 
side by side.  Subjects had to judge which one he 
preferred.  And then, they clicked on the button below the 
one they preferred.  Then, they clicked on the 
confirmation key located on the middle bottom. At the 
same time, the computer added one score to the preferred 
color combination, and added 0 to the other.  After they 
clicked the confirmation key, the screen showed another 
two color combinations immediately. To reduce emotional 
effects on preference judgment, the computer began to play 
classic music through the test.  Each subject had finished 
190 (=20X19÷2) comparisons.  The score of the most 
preferred color combination was no more than 19. 
2-2-3 Subjective aesthetic ratings and subjective legibility 
ratings 
The purpose of the subjective aesthetic ratings was to 
collect the subjective aesthetic scores for all the color 
combinations by pair comparison of every two color 
combinations.  Likewise, the purpose of the subjective 
legibility ratings was to collect the subjective legibility 
scores for all the color combinations by pair comparison of 
every two color combinations.  The procedures and 
scoring methods of these two experiments were the same as 
those of the subjective preference experiment. Each subject 
had finished 190 (=20X19÷2) comparisons for each 
experiment.  The score of the most preferred color 
combination was no more than 19 for each experiment. 
3. Results and Discussion 
Table 1 showed the outcomes of five multiple regression 
analyses.  The SAest, Gleg, Sleg, ΔE and Spref were 
criterion variables, respectively, and the other four 
variables were regarded as predictor variables.  Based on 
the outcomes of the five regression models, a path analysis 
shown on figure 1 was drawn to show their relationships 
withβ-weight of each predictor.  Besides, table 2 showed 
the correlation and partial correlation between variables.  
Zero-order correlation coefficients between variables were 
shown on grey cells.  For example, the  referred to 
the zero-order correlation coefficient between SAest and 
variable X.  The -2 referred to the correlation between 
SAest and variable X, and the effect of the Gleg is removed.  
X could be SAest (coded as “1”), Gleg (coded as “2”), Sleg 
(coded  “3”), ΔE (coded  “4”) and Spref (coded “5”).  
 6
develop a model for predicting subjective legibility of the 
color combinations from the scores of SAest, Gleg, ΔE and 
Spref.  Table 1 showed that the four predictor model was 
able to account for 74.38% of the variance in subjective 
legibility ratings (F (4, 595) = 431.8, p < .0001).  It also 
showed that four variables, SAest, Gleg, ΔE and Spref 
were significant to predict Sleg.  Their standardized 
estimates were 0.09478 (P<0.0001), 0.22949 (p=0.0002), 
0.35798, (p<0.0001) and 0.30809 (p<0.0001), respectively.  
In Figure 1, the link between Sleg and Gleg was a dash line 
because their low relationship (β-weight =0.09478).   
Table 2 also showed that zero-order correlation coefficient 
between SAest and Sleg was 0.78416, that the partial 
correlation coefficient was 0.70687 by controlling Gleg, 
and that partial correlation coefficient was 0.26255 by 
controlling Spref.  The evidences showed no relations 
between SAest and Gleg again.  The outcomes also 
showed that Spref was the mediator variables affecting the 
relation between SAest and Sleg.  Therefore, the 
relationship between SAest and Sleg was low when the 
effect of Spref was removed from them.  It might be the 
reason that judgment of SAest and Spref was mainly 
subject to reflective levels of brain processing. However, 
Sleg involved in both object legibility which was subjective 
to behavioral levels and subjective judgment which is 
subject to reflective levels.  Therefore, eliminating the 
reflective levels of brain processing in judging Sleg, the 
relationship between SAest and Sleg was low. 
The outcomes agree previous findings that the relationships 
between perceived usability and aesthetics are high.  
Besides, it also showed that the relationships between 
perceived usability and aesthetics are low if not considering 
the effect of subjective preferences. 
3-3 Perceived usability vs. objective usability 
Table 2 showed that the zero-order correlation between 
Sleg and Gleg was 0.55051.  It indicated that the 
relationships between perceived usability and objective 
usability were low. It might be the reason that judgment of 
Gleg was mainly subject to behavioral levels of brain 
processing.  However, Sleg involved in both objective 
legibility (subject to behavioral levels), and subjective 
judgment (subject to reflective levels).  Therefore, their 
relations were significant, but low.   
The outcome agreed with the findings of Tractinsky et al. 
(2000).  They found low correlations between perceived 
usability before using products and perceived usability 
after using products.  In their study, the notion of 
perceived usability before using products was the same as 
perceived usability in this study.  As for perceived 
usability after using products, the usability evaluation was 
tainted by reflective levels because subjects subjectively 
judged usability after using products.  However, the 
effects of behavioral levels would decay gradually after 
using products.  Therefore, the notion of perceived 
usability after using was close to objective usability in this 
study because the judgment perceived usability after using 
was performed immediately after using.   
Their partial correlation between Sleg and Gleg, by 
controlling SAest, or Spref, was 0.30746, or 0.31701, 
respectively.  The partial correlation by controlling ΔE 
was 0.25565.  The decrement of correlations between Sleg 
and Gleg, by controlling SAest, or Spref, was moderate.  
However, The decrement of correlations by controllingΔE 
was drastic.  The outcomes indicated that ΔE was an 
intervening variable affecting the correlations between Sleg 
and Gleg.  It seemed that the significant relationships 
between Sleg and Gleg were generated by adding the 
factors of icon-background color differences.   
3-4 ΔE vs. Perceived usability 
Multiple linear regression analysis was also used to 
develop a model for predictingΔE of the color 
combinations from the scores of SAest, Gleg, Sleg and 
Spref.  Table 1 showed that the four predictor model was 
able to account for 59.21% of the variance in ΔE (F(4, 595) 
= 215.89, p < .0001). It also showed that two variables, 
Gleg and Sleg, were significant to predictΔE; their 
standardized estimates were 0.18019 (P<0.0001), 0.57003 
(p=0.0002), respectively.  However, in Figure 1, the links 
betweenΔE and Gleg was a dash line to indicate their low 
relationship (β-weight =0.18019).   
Table 2 showed that the zero-order correlation between ΔE 
and Gleg was 0.54467.  It indicated that the relationships 
between color contrast of the color combination and 
objective usability were low.  The partial correlations 
betweenΔE and Gleg was 0.2382 when the effect of Sleg 
was controlled.  The drastic decrement of partial 
correlations indicated that Sleg might be an intervening 
variable.  As compared to zero-order correlations 
betweenΔE and other three variables, SAest (0.63741), 
Gleg (0.54461) and Spref (0.63217), the decrements of 
their partial correlations betweenΔE and the variables, 
SAest (0.11898), Gleg (0.23828) and Spref (0.09893), 
respectively, were drastically significant when Sleg was 
controlled.  These evidences showed that the relation 
betweenΔE and Gleg was low; but the relation betweenΔE 
and Sleg was high.   
ΔE values might be related to the visceral levels of brain 
processing which was pre-consciousness, pre-thought.  
The visceral levels were about appearance matters and first 
impressions. Consequently, the ΔE values might directly 
reflect the appearance qualities of the color combinations 
because they were calculated by the color differences 
between icon colors and background colors.  However, 
Gleg was mainly subject to behavioral levels of brain 
processing.  Hence, the outcomes showed low 
relationships betweenΔE and Gleg.   
Besides, the reason why the evidences showed the high 
 8
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          98年  8月  17日 
報告人姓名  黃室苗 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
國立虎尾科技大學機械設計系 
副教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2009/AUG/11-14 
新加坡 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
NSC-98-2221-E-150-039 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 國際人因工程學會年會 
 (英文) The 17th Congress of the International Ergonomics Association (IEA 
2009)   
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 圖象配色之主觀情感和美感判斷之關係 
 (英文) The Relations between Subjects’ Affects and Judgment of Aesthetics for 
Icon-Background Color Combinations 
附
件
三
 
與會中仍有許多人對此一感性工程提出疑問，但很難由Nagamachi教授或他的同
你的回答中得到滿意的答案。最主要的癥結點在於感性工程的資料為何能成功地
應用在產品設計上。Nagamachi教授他們所強調就只是這個應用是成功的，但無
法以設計師的心理學、創意學或行為學上解說為何成功，只能由他們的觀察經驗
得知結果是可行的。但這些他們聲稱的觀寫結果却有多個令人質疑的地方，也使
得感性工程的設計應用性大大受到挑戰。例如，物件所引發的情感，不是不會改
變的。他會因觀者的文化、學習、當下的情境，而改變同一物件所呈現的情感。
再來就是，針對同一情感，不同的設計師雖能由資料庫中取出一致造形-情感 對
應組，但他們能創造出相同的造形嗎？即使是不同的造形也沒關係，但這此造形
真能引發設計所想要的情感嗎?還是設計師仍要以自己的設計訓練對此一造形加
以修改，才是達到此一情感的主因？若是如此，則感性工程應用的科學性就大大
的降低。若我們由完形心理學、動機理論或情緒理論、問題解決理論等角度來看
感性工程，我們不得不質疑它的應用價值。或許它的應用成功是設計師的受美感
設計訓練的成功，而不是感性工程資料庫的資料。 
 
在產品設計場次方面，我想由這些發表者的論述中，得到應用人因、機械、設計
等於產品設計的例子。但似乎並有得到預期的答案，但也加深我對此一整合困難
度的確認。例如Sritomo Wignjosoebroto教授提出人因輪椅設計案。但其結果是
一台令人不敢茍同的輪椅。雖然此一輪椅解決行和吃的問題，但却也產生其它的
人因問題，例如居家中不方便用、介面操做不易、造形不好看…等。似乎產生更
多的問題。同樣的問題也發生在人因垃圾桶設計和嬰兒用湯匙設計。這些設計皆
只解決他們所要的設計問題，但產生更多不合用的人因問題。這也就是在整合這
些領域時，所產生的困難度。未來我的研究領域亦將朝人因應用設計端發展，這
些問題將做為我的警愓。 
 
另外，在我自己發表論文的場次中，也有多位和我目前研究相關的主題—美感評
價方法。我對美感評方法中，一直深信以主觀評估美感，並以此評估之平均數做
為美感判斷的方式，一直不以為然。因為因為在此次論文口頭報告的內容中，我
針對物件的造形特徵、觀者背景和物件所在情境三者分析美感判斷的影響因素。
由這些文獻中，發現美感判斷因物而異、因人而異、因境而異等特性。但本場次
發表的論文仍以平均數決定美感的分數。例如Tal Oron-Gilad的研究中，探討同
地圖的配色是否是影響美感的因素。結果發現配色效應不會影響美感判斷。這一
結果並不是說配色不美，而是符合我個人的見解，美感因人而異，因而造成的效
應不明顯。所以在設計上，美的配色仍是很重的設計元素。 
 
三、建議 
感謝國科會的支持，使本人可以有機會參與此一大型國際級會議。雖助金額只足
以支付註冊費和來回機票，大大減輕本人的經濟負擔，使本人得以參加大型國際
會議的夢想，並增廣見聞。真心感謝，無太多建議。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文集光碟—內容含蓋本次會議所有的議文 
 
 
The Relations between Subjects’ Affects and Judgment of Aesthetics 
for Icon-Background Colour Combinations 
 
Shih-Miao Huang*, Wu-Jeng Li 
 National Formosa University 
 
The average score of subjects’ ratings for a specific system interface to generalize subjects' aesthetic 
preference for the interface system might be not appropriate because the physical prototypical 
exemplars of objects might not play a determinant role in judging beauty, but the pleasure prototypes 
presenting affective meanings of the objects.   When subjects like the affective meanings of objects, 
the objects are judged beauty. The purpose of this study is to explore the affective meanings and its 
properties.  The Regression analysis and Factor Analysis are used in the experiment to find out 
affective meanings form 29 adjective pairs, affective meanings, boiled down from more than 100 
adjective pairs collected from journals, catalogues, books and websites.  The result shows that there 
are two kinds of affective meanings: High-consistent and Low-consistent affective meanings.  In 
High-consistent affective meanings, both the strength of affective meanings and the aesthetic rating 
scores for color combinations are significantly correlated for all subjects.  Otherwise, the affective 
meanings are called Low-consistent affective meanings.  Two types of High-consistent affective 
meanings are found in this study.  First, Value Affective Meanings refers to those affective meanings 
related to subjective values of subjects on judgment of beauty.  Second, Disinterestedness Affective 
Meanings refers to the affective meanings related to design principles determining their judgment of 
beauty without any interest.   Also, 20 affective meanings are Low-consistent prototypes which can 
be distinguished into three types of affective meanings: Action Affective Meanings, Practicality 
Affective Meanings and Temperament Affective Meanings. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Besides being easily recognized and remembered icons can 
save more screen space than words.  Today’s display 
technologies have the ability to display numerous colors. 
Therefore, icons with colors are used extensively in graphical 
user interfaces for hand-held electronic products, such as 
mobile phones and PDAs.   However, most researches on 
icon-background color combinations focus on the usability of 
the screen interface design. That is, the color combinations in 
the interactive interfaces were evaluated with learnability, 
efficiency, memorability, errors or satisfaction.  Recently, 
aesthetic preferences are also discussed for interface design 
improvement.  Aesthetics, which refers to “beauty” in this 
study, pertains to a sense of what is beautiful and visually 
pleasing and a strong determinant of the user’s pleasure 
experience in using system interfaces (Gatto, 1987).  Some 
researchers believed that user aesthetic preferences for the 
proposed system interface designs is important because the 
aesthetic quality of a product might influence consumer 
attitudes and is a critical determinant of its marketplace 
success (Bloch 1995).  Norman (2004) claims that aesthetic 
design can be even more influential in affecting user 
preferences than traditional operational usability in interactive 
systems. Several researchers devoted studies to discover which 
color combinations were beautiful to users in screen design.  
These studies presumed that the aesthetic preference ratings 
between subjects are highly consistent.  For example, Shieh 
and Ko (2005) used the means of subjects’ preference ratings 
to explore the effects of target/background color combinations 
on the judgment of icon design beauty. Their results indicated 
that black targets (black-on-white, black-on-yellow) and black 
backgrounds (red-on-black, yellow-on-black) were the most 
popular.  In chromatic color combinations, yellow-on-blue 
was the most favored.  Camgoz, Yener & Guvenc (2002), 
who explored the preference responses for figure/ground color 
combinations, found that colors with maximum saturation and 
brightness were most preferred. They found that blue was the 
most preferred hue. 
However, it was found that the authors’ recommendations 
about subjects’ aesthetic ratings for color combinations were 
not always consistent with each other. One of the possible 
reasons might be that aesthetic preferences are highly personal 
factors, with a large variation between users. The rating 
consistence is low between subjects for these previous studies.  
Rating Consistence refers to the extent of the agreement 
among subject aesthetic preferences for a specific color 
combination in this paper.  Therefore, previous studies that 
used the average score of subjects’ ratings for a specific system 
interface to judge subjects’ aesthetic preferences for the 
interface system might be not appropriate.  
Several factors would influence the judgment of the 
aesthetics of color combinations, such as the physical feature, 
human past experiences, contexts, and individual emotions. 
 
Physical features 
results also showed a positive correlation between system 
aesthetic appearance and its perceived usability.  Huang’s 
(2008) explored the relations between aesthetic preference 
(beautiful) and both legibility (good) and comfort (agreeable) 
and also found that color combinations with bad quality in 
both legibility and comfort degraded subjects’ aesthetic 
preference.   Therefore, an agreeable or good color 
combination would influence whether people judge it as 
beautiful. 
 
Arousals 
 
Besides, Cupchik (1994) believed that the judgment of 
aesthetic preference is decided by object configurations that 
evoke pleasure or arousal.  The degree of evoking arousal 
depends on humans associating the object configurations with 
pleasure and excitement based on past experiences or a 
learning process.  For example, according to the principle of 
the aesthetic middle, people tolerate most often and for the 
longest time a certain medium degree of arousal, which makes 
them feel neither over-stimulated nor dissatisfied (Cupchik, 
1994).  Sentimental art producing “idealized thoughts about 
the goodness and purity of the subject matter” is 
arousal-moderating and evokes responses of warmth in 
unsophisticated audiences.  In the meantime, learning 
mechanisms would reduce arousals, such as, conditioning, 
habituation, and stimulus generalization.  Thus, if 
conditioning serves to make a particular stimulus feature 
familiar and pleasurable, then repeated exposure to the 
stimulus should reduce its reward value through habituation. 
 
Prototypes 
 
Besides, Whitfield (2000) proposes the 
Categorical-Motivation model to explain the characteristics of 
aesthetics by integrating arousal-based model and 
categorization-based model.  In this view, prototypic 
exemplars sway human judgment of beauty (Lindgaard and 
Whitfield, 2004).  These prototypic exemplars provide stable 
sensory-perceptual-emotional reference points for the 
processing of contiguous stimuli and would minimize 
information processing demands.  Proximity to the prototype 
will generate pleasure, whereby the closer to the prototype the 
greater the pleasure.  These prototypes would provide 
essential reference points to permit fast navigation of the 
system (Lindgaard and Whitfield, 2004).  However, it cannot 
explain why a color combination with identical physical 
features does not have the same aesthetic ratings for different 
individuals.  
 
Affective meanings 
 
The physical prototype or arousal evoked seems to be not 
the only factor influencing the judgment of beauty.  Pleasure 
evoked by aesthetics may be an emotional reaction. The 
judgment of beauty may not only depend on one of the object 
shapes, meanings, contexts, function of the color combinations 
or the audience motivations but on the preference levels of the 
affective meanings that the color combination presents.  The 
affective meanings can explain why the objective views 
believe that the object’s intrinsic properties would sway the 
judgment of beauty even when the viewers do not have any 
information about the object.  Object properties, such as color, 
shape and texture, etc., can be deemed as signs expressing to 
audiences.  These properties can evoke audiences’ feelings. 
For example, a wide inverted U-curve, “︵”, evokes some 
audience a feeling of being unhappy.  This affective meaning 
of the object properties would sway their judgment of beauty 
for the object. 
The preference levels of the affective meanings would be 
decided by audience experience, education and arousals.  The 
affective meanings of the objects will change when the context 
in which the objects are in is changed.  For example, the form 
“Fountain”, one of the works of Marcel Duchamp (1887-1968) 
is deemed as aesthetic, but it is not an admirable work when 
being put in the restroom.  the affective meanings of the 
“fountain”, is changed when the urinal is put in the restroom.  
That is, one may feel the affective meaning of the “fountain” is 
“masculine” when the urinal is put in a museum, but he may 
feel “foul” when the urinal is put in the restroom.  Therefore, 
it seems that aesthetic preference judgment depends on 
objects’ affective meanings which are influenced by the 
context and user experience. That is, when a color combination 
is presented, one perceives not only the feature qualities (i.e., 
prototypes of physical shapes) of the color combination, but 
also the affective meanings of the color combinations in some 
specific situations.  The affective meanings serve as pleasure 
prototypes which would provide essential reference points to 
permit people to feel objects quickly.  The level of 
experienced pleasures depends on human experiences on the 
affective semantic meanings he encountered before.  For 
example, Huang (preparation for press) believes that one who 
prefers the feeling of “cute”, a pleasure prototype, based on his 
past experiences would like the color combinations which 
present the semantic meaning, “cute”, and rates them with 
higher scores.   Inversely, those who do not like the feeling 
of “cute” would rate them with lower scores.  Furthermore, a 
color combination may include various affective semantic 
meanings with different intensities.  The degree of the 
experienced pleasure is various for different people for every 
affective meanings evoked from the color combination. 
Therefore, the affective meanings the color combination 
presents might be the mediator variables affecting aesthetic 
judgments for the color combinations. The affective meanings 
evoked from the color combinations can explain Huang’s 
argument (2008) that the aesthetics rating consistence is low 
between subjects for a specific color combination. 
 
Purposes 
 
Hence, the affective meanings of an object can explain why 
the aesthetic preference for objects is not rated consistently for 
most color combinations between subjects.  One perceives 
not only the physical feature qualities of the color combination, 
but also the affective semantic meanings of the color 
combinations.  However, few studies discuss the aesthetics 
with the properties of the affective meanings.  Even, most 
studies rating the interface aesthetics were based on the 
average scores, and neglected the factors of object affective 
meanings.  Therefore, it is worth exploring the categories of 
affective meanings which influence the judgment of aesthetic 
preference for the icon-background color combinations.  The 
Huang's study (2007) and displayed on the computer screen in 
the experiment.  There are several merits using icons with 
these 40 color combinations in this study.  First, icons are 
used in interface design extensively.  Next, human prefers 
color interfaces most, and today’s technologies have abilities 
to display numerous colors.  Last is not least, the paper tries 
to eliminate the effects of the other physical styling (such as 
texture and gradation, etc.) and the contexts because both 
styling and context that could influence subject ratings of 
affective meanings would result in the complexity to explain 
the experiment data. 
As subject performed the experimental task, only one of the 
40 color combinations is shown on the display at a time.  The 
display setting is shown on Figure 2.  The computer modeled 
as HP Workstation XW4200 was used to control the 
experiment procedure; and the experimental material is 
programmed with Director 8.0.  The ambient room luminance 
was about 43 lux at observers’ seats. 
Fig. 2. The test page displaying a color combinations. 
 
Procedures 
 
The subjects sit in front of a computer screen.  The 
researcher gives them a questionnaire, shown on Fig. 1, with 
the list of 30 pair adjectives (including the "Beautiful-Ugly" 
pair) with random orders.  After subjects filling out the 
personal data, a screen page (on LCD display modeled CMV 
CT-736D) shows one of the 40 color combinations. Therefore, 
there are 40 questionnaires for each subject.  Subjects were 
asked to judge the affective meanings of the presented color 
combination according to the 30 pair adjectives by marking 
one of checked boxes on the questionnaire.  The boxes are 
encoded from 1 to 10, from left to right, respectively for each 
adjective pair.  Subjects select the box closer to left if 
believing that the affective meaning of the presenting color 
combinations is closer to the left adjective for each adjective 
pair.  Subjects are reminded to neglect the numbers on the top 
of the boxes in the questionnaire. 
Subjects spend about 15 minutes on filling a questionnaire 
for one color combination.  After finish one questionnaire of 
one color combination, they take a rest for 5 minutes before 
filling next questionnaire of one of the other color 
combinations. They rate 8 color combinations per day and 
spend less than 3 hours to answer the questionnaire for a day.  
It is spent 5 days for each subject to complete the 
questionnaires. 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
 
In this study, the rating scores of the specific adjective pairs 
for a specific color combination reflect the strength of the 
affective meanings evoked from the color combination. The 
strength of affective meanings of the color combinations 
would be shifted due to the experimental contexts.  To 
eliminate contextual effects, which would change the 
semantics of these color combinations, all color combinations 
are presented in the same experimental settings by using the 
computer display.  Besides, the physical features of these 
color combinations are identical, such as icons’ shapes, texture 
and size which would influence subjects’ judgments due to 
their past experiences.  Therefore, the rating consistence of 
adjective pairs evoked by the color combinations is increasing 
in this study.   
 
High-consistent affective meanings   
 
By Stepwise Regression analysis, the adjective pairs that 
can predict the “Beautiful-Ugly” pair (i.e., its affective 
meaning is “Beauty”) are listed on table 1.  After the 
Stepwise Regression analysis, the result shows that nine 
adjective-pairs significantly correlate to the "Beautiful-Ugly" 
pair.  They are "Clean-Dirty," "Agreeable-Disagreeable," 
"Noble-Vile," "Sweet-Bitter," "Open-Closed," 
"Massive-Weak," "Order-Mess," "Unity-Inharmonious," and 
"Progressive-Regressive" shown as Table 1.  That is, nine 
affective meanings can predict the “Beauty” of the color 
combinations: "Clean," "Agreeable," "Noble," "Sweet," 
"Open," "Massive," "Order," "Unity," and "Progressive."  
These nine affective meanings would significantly affect the 
subjects’ rating consistence when subjects judge the beauty of 
the color combination.  That is, when subjects like/or dislike 
the affective meaning presenting from the color combination, 
these subjects would rate consistently the color combination 
with a high/or low score, respectively.  Therefore, these 
affective meanings are High-consistent affective meanings in 
this study.   
Table 1. Nine adjective pairs which significantly correlate to the 
"beautiful-ugly" pair by stepwise Regression analysis. 
 
VAM and DAM   
 
Furthermore, it is also found that six of nine affective 
meanings have to do with moral values which evaluate the 
right or wrong of human behaviors.  They are "Clean," 
"Agreeable," "Noble," and "Sweet," "Open," and 
"Progressive."  The "Clean," "Agreeable," "Noble," "Sweet," 
"open" and "Progressive" are positive values.  "Clean" refers 
to being free from dirty, and moral pure. "Agreeable" refers to 
comfortable feelings.  "Noble" refers to being admirable in 
appearance. "Sweet" refers to being a nice appearance 
feelings of both explicitness and practicability for the color 
combinations, this factor is named Practicality affective 
meanings (PAM).  Factor 3 included six adjective pairs: 
“Hard-Soft,“ “Deep-Shallow,“ “Masculine-Feminine,“ “Pragm
atic-Romantic,“ “Adult-Childish“ and “Intensive-Loose“.  
Since these items show the disposition of the color 
combinations, this factor is named Temperament affective 
meanings (TAM).  The meanings of these adjective pairs in 
the three main factors do not relate to the expression, or 
judgment, of good or bad values.  That is, subject preference 
of one of adjectives in the three main factors is because of his 
subjective preference of the affective meaning, but not because 
of the judgment of values.  Different subjects may like 
different affective meanings in these three main factors.  That 
is why some subjects may like a specific color combination 
which is not preferred by others although affective meanings 
evoked from the color combination are identical.  The 
preference degrees of these affective meanings may be 
influenced by individual past experience, or conditioning. 
 
Preference of affective meanings for subjects 
 
Furthermore, for those who have different demographic 
characteristics, it is commonly believed that the affective 
meanings they prefer are different for different people.  
Interestingly, for those who have similar demographic 
background, the study also finds that the preference levels for 
only some of the affective meanings are identical, such as the 
affective meanings in VAM and DAM.  That is, the 
preference levels for most affective meanings are different for 
most subjects, even their demographic characteristics are 
similar.          
 
Aesthetic preference and DAM 
 
In addition, Kant believes that an object is beautiful if one 
likes it without any interest and should be free from any kind 
of desire, aim, or purpose, or any social, moral, or intellectual 
considerations (Wenzel, 2005).  The results show that the 
affective meanings (i.e., “Massive,” “Order” and “Unity”) 
categorized as DAM are unconcerned with any interest.  
Based on Kant’s view, these affective meanings are critical in 
judgment of beauty.  In this study, the affective meanings in 
DAM are classified as the High-consistent affective meanings 
which can use predict the aesthetic preference of color 
combinations for subjects.  In this situation, it is feasible for 
Kant’s view that an object is beautiful if one likes it without 
any interest.     
 
Aesthetic preference and VAM    
 
Besides, Kant divides satisfaction into three parts: 
“agreeable,” “beautiful” and “good“ satisfactions.  Kant 
believes that “good” or “agreeable” satisfaction is not 
“beautiful” satisfaction.  “Agreeable” is related to the 
individual subjective feelings about the object (Wenzel, 2005).  
In this study, the affective meanings (i.e., “Clean,” 
“Agreeable,” “Noble” and “Sweet”) in VAM are related to 
“agreeable” satisfaction because they express the subjective 
feelings of value judgment.  Therefore, these affective 
meanings would not influence judgment of beauty in light of 
Kant’s view.  However, this study does agree with this view.  
The result shows that the affective meanings in VAM are 
classified as the High-consistent affective meanings which are 
appreciated with similar levels by all subjects.   The affective 
meanings in VAM can use to predict subjects’ aesthetic 
preference.    
 
Aesthetic preference and PAM, AAM and TAM     
 
Kant believes that “Good” satisfaction is related to the 
objects’ function with an objective ground.  Kant also 
believes that “good” satisfaction is not “beautiful” satisfaction.  
In this study, the affective meanings (i.e., “Useful,” “Legible,” 
Real,” “Tensional,” etc.) in PAM are related to “good” 
satisfaction because they express the usability of color 
combinations.         
The affective meanings in PAM are classified as the 
Low-consistent affective meanings whose aesthetic rating 
scores for a color combination are various for different 
subjects.  For example, a figure-background color 
combination with the highest contrast will increase its 
legibility; but, some people, not all, do not like the highest 
contrast, but moderate contrast.  Therefore, the preference 
rating scores of these affective meanings which express 
“good” satisfactions are various for different subjects.  Hence, 
the aesthetic rating scores of the color combination evoking 
Low-consistent affective meanings are various for different 
subjects.  The intensity of this kind of affective meanings 
evoked from the color combinations does not decide the 
aesthetic rating scores, but subjects’ preference for the 
affective meanings evoked from the color combinations does.      
The affective meanings in both AAM and TAM are also 
related to “agreeable” satisfaction because they express the 
feelings of action and temperament, respectively.  Similarly,  
the aesthetic rating scores of the color combination evoking 
these kinds of Low-consistent affective meanings are various 
for different subjects.  Like PAM, The intensity of these kinds 
of affective meanings evoked from the color combinations 
does not decide the aesthetic rating scores, but subjects’ 
preference for these affective meanings evoked from the color 
combinations does.      
 
A theoretical model to predict aesthetic ratings    
 
Hence, two factors influence the aesthetic ratings of the 
color combinations.  First is the strength of all affective 
meanings evoked from the color combinations; second is the 
individual preference for the affective meanings, especially for 
Low-consistent affective meanings.  Therefore, a theoretical 
model to predict aesthetic preference can be proposed and 
expressed as below because the affective meanings can be 
divided into high- and low- consistent groups. 
)()()(
11
)( ξβαρ RSLRSHR m
j
jj
n
i
iiR ++∑∑=
==
   
Where i=1, 2, 3,..., n; j=1, 2, 3,…, m.  The iSH  or 
jSL refers to the ith, or jth, affective meaning the object 
presents in high-, or low- consistent group, respectively.  The 
R (SHi), or R (SLj) is the subject’s preference rating score of 
the ith, or jth, affective meaning, respectively.  “ iα ”, or 
“ jβ ", denotes to the strength of the ith, or jth, affective 
Bartlett, F. C., 1932. Remembering: A Study in Experimental 
and Social Psychology. Cambridge: Cambridge University 
Press.    
Bloch, P., 1995. Seeking the ideal form: Product design and 
consumer response. Journal of Marketing 59, 16-29. 
Camgoz, N., Yener, C., Guvenc, D., 2002. Effects of hue, 
saturation, and brightness on preference. Color Research and 
Application 27, 199-207. 
Cupchik, G. C., 1994. Emotion in aesthetics: reactive and 
reflective models. Poetics 23, 177-188. 
Cupchuk, G.C., Gebotys, R.J., 1990. Interest and pleasure as 
dimensions of aesthetic response. Emperical Studies of the 
Arts 8 (1), 1-14. 
Eaton, M. M., 2006. Beauty and ugliness in and out of context. 
In Kieran, M. (Ed.), Contemporary Debates in Aesthetics and 
the Philosophy of Art. Blackwell, MA, pp. 39-50. 
Gatto, J. A., Porter, A. W., Selleck, J., 1987. Visual Design. 
Davis Publications, MA. 
Graham, G., 2006. Aesthetic empiricism and the challenge of 
fakes and ready-mades. In Kieran, M. (Ed.), Contemporary 
Debates in Aesthetics and the Philosophy of Art. Blackwell, 
MA, pp. 11-21. 
Hassenzahl, M., 2004. The interplay of beauty, goodness and 
usability in interactive products. Human Computer Interaction 
19 (4), 319–349. 
Huang, S.-M., 2006. A study of reading time and viewer 
preferences for a variety of character-background chromaticity 
combinations for small traditional Chinese characters. 
Perceptual and Motor Skills 103, 887-895. 
Huang, S.-M., 2007. A study of the consistence of subjective 
ratings for icon-background color combinations for small 
computer icons. The International Conference on Industrial 
Engineering and Engineering Management, 462-466. 
Huang, S.-M., 2008. Rating consistence of color combinations 
for aesthetic preference, legibility and comfort for small icons. 
The International Conference on Industrial Engineering and 
Engineering Management (accepted). 
Itten, J., 1975. Design and Form. Van Nostrand Reinhold, NY. 
Laviea, T., Tractinskyb, N., 2004. Assessing dimensions of 
perceived visual aesthetics of web sites. International Journal 
of Human-Computer Studies 60,  269–298. 
Lindgaard, G., Whitfield, T. W. A., 2004. Integrating aesthetics 
within an evolutionary and psychological framework. 
Theoretical Issue in Ergonomics Science 5, 73-90. 
Nielsen, J., Levy, J., 1994. Measuring usability: preference vs. 
performance. Communications of the ACM 37 (4) 66-76. 
Norman, D. A., 2004. Beauty, goodness and usability: 
Introduction to the special section. Human-Computer 
Interaction 19, 311-318. 
Osborne, H., 1968. Aesthetics and Art History. Longman, 
Harlow. 
Shieh, K., Ko, Y., 2005.  Effects of display characteristics and 
individual differences on performances of VDT icon design. 
Perceptual and Motor Skills 100, 305-318. 
Wenzel, C, H., 2005. An Introduction to Kant's Aesthetics. 
Blackwell, MA. 
Whitfield, T. W. A., 2000. Beyond prototypicality: towards a 
Categorical-Motivation model of aesthetics. Empirical Studies 
of the Arts 18, 1–11.  
Winston, A.S., Cupchik, G. C., 1992. The evaluation of high 
art and popular art by naive and experienced viewers. Visual 
Arts Research 18(1), 1-14. 
Zimbardo, P. G., Gerrig, R. J., 1996. Psychology and life. 
HarperCollins, NY.
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃室苗 計畫編號：98-2221-E-150-039- 
計畫名稱：螢幕介面色彩組合之操作效率和使用性知覺評價對美感判斷的影響 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
