 II
ABSTRACT  
 
Keywords：Thumb, carpomatacarpal joint, kinematics, workspace, motion analysis 
 
The purpose of this study is to develop a new evaluation method for assessing the thumb 
carpomatacarpal (CMC) joint motion based on the concept of workspace using the 
electromagnetic tracking device (miniBirdCMC Magnetic Tracking System, Ascension Technology 
Corp., Burlington, VT, USA). 
Due to the intricate anatomical structures at the base of the thumb, it is difficult to clinically 
measure the motion of the thumb CMC joint. Thumb CMC motion is complex. Movement 
patterns of the thumb make the present methods of joint motion assessment difficult and they are 
not suited to measurement of thumb motion or thumb impairment. Currently, measurement of the 
range of thumb motion is limited to flexion-extension and abduction-adduction planes at the 
metacarpophalangeal (MP) and interphalangeal (IP) joints. However, if such motions take place 
simultaneously or are combined with a more complex joint such as thumb CMC joint, it becomes 
difficult, if not impossible, to evaluate the precise kinematics of the thumb. 
The model for obtaining and calculating the maximal workspace of the thumb CMC joint 
has been developed using cadaver hands in our previous study. In this study, we collected the 
motion path of the first metacarpal head and use such data to determine the surface area of the 
workspace based on the cadaveric model. Forty normal subjects’ maximal workspace outcomes 
were used to establish a normal database. 
This database is intended to be the basis for a subsequent study in which we can compute 
the percentage of actual use compared to the “ideal” value for the given thumb metacarpal length 
and determine the loss of motion associated with injuries of the thumb and related surgical 
corrective procedures. According to this clinical proof, our future goal will be to set this database 
as a standard in the use of handicapped authentication or insurance claim. Through this 
standardized approach, many of the artificial causes which may affect an objective decision will 
be avoided. Otherwise, this technique will also provide a concept of using the quantitative 
method for clinical occupational therapists, hand therapists or clinicians and inspire them to 
create more quantitative assessments to replace qualitative ones in clinical uses. 
 2
injuries is diverse. The common injuries are blunt trauma (e.g. crush injury, contusions, 
abrasions…etc), laceration, avulsion and burns. Those mechanisms cause skin and superficial 
tissues, muscles, ligaments, tendons and even bones vulnerable to injury, as well as the nerves 
and blood vessels that supply these structures. Damage to these structures may result in 
permanent motor or sensory deficits specific to the site of injury. 
A lower median nerve lesion may affect the extensor pollicis longus (EPL), adductor pollicis 
(ADP), abductor pollicis brevis (APB), flexor pollicis brevis (FPB) and opponens pollicis and 
result in loss of opposition of the thumb. In a higher lesion, not only opposition but the IP joint 
flexion also may be affected due to the loss of the flexor pollicis longus (FPL) function. The 
crush and cutting mechanisms usually result in the superficial tissues, underlying tendons, 
muscles and ligaments injuries of the thumb. In some server crush patients, the bones, vessels 
and nerves are also affected.  
Another common problem of the thumb is stenosing tenosynovitis, such as de Quervain's 
tenosynovitis. The inflammation of the APL and EPB tendons within their tendon sheaths at the 
lateral or anterior border of the anatomical snuffbox are found. This is a kind of overuse 
syndrome in racquet sports, bowling or bad position in extended typing or writing. Symptoms 
include pain and swelling on the back of the base of the thumb which may extend up into the 
forearm or down into the thumb as well as a creaking sensation when moving the thumb. 
Otherwise, the ranges of motion are limited through pain and swelling.  
The injury involving ligament sprain or tear is also one of the common injuries encountered 
during some sport activities and forcefully manual works. The ulnar ligament of the thumb's MP 
is frequently stretched or torn and referred to as "gamekeeper's" thumb or "bowler's" thumb. The 
forces the thumb upwards and backwards, damaging the ligament on the inside of the thumb. 
Symptoms include pain around the base of the thumb and thumb web and extensive bruising and 
swelling around the thumb web. The patient’s ranges of motion usually diminish because of 
avoiding irritating tenderness.  
Thumb CMC joint osteoarthritis is the most common location for arthritis in the hand. It is 
due to wear and tear of the joint structures with overuse of the thumb. The injury of this joint and 
its surrounding tissues may lead a change in the way the joint moves and increase the forces on 
the articular cartilage surfaces. The chief complaint of the patient is pain around the basal joint. 
When the condition becomes worse, pain may be persistent and present even at rest. This 
degenerative arthritis will eventually affect the motion of the CMC joint. The basal joint may 
become stiff and lose its range of motion to move the thumb away from the palm. Furthermore, it 
becomes difficult to grip and manipulate various activities of daily living. Fortunately, the 
incidence of the osteoarthritis of the thumb CMC joint in the Eastern is not as usual as that in the 
Western. However, due to the cause of this condition and its pathophysiologic mechanisms are 
still as poorly understood, only some well-known factors related to its high prevalence have been 
point out. These include socioeconomic burden, age, gender and mechanical factors. Thus, 
people who have previous injuries of the thumb CMC joint and need to forcefully use the thumb 
in working still have to keep watch for the further condition of this joint. 
Clinical Relevance 
There are many reasons for the motion impairments of the thumb. Because of the complexity 
of the structures and the motion patterns of the thumb, the previous mentioned methods of joint 
motion measurements are inaccurate and unable to provide complete and perfect measurements 
of thumb motion. Motions of abduction, adduction, retropulsion are imprecise and often do not 
have practical value. Observation of thumb opposition and measurements with a goniometer are 
the common methods, which we use to assess the ROM of joint and to determine the extent of 
impairments. However, it is difficult to record the movements of the thumb by any quantitative 
representation using observation alone or the simple range of motion of the thumb by a 
 4
estimate the center of the sphere (Fig. 2). Afterwards, the surface area of the maximal CMC 
workspace, located on one part of the sphere surface will be calculated by the numerical methods, 
surface integrals. 
O
R
S
 
Fig. 2 – Spherical fitting of the maximal CMC workspace.  
  
 
2. Normal Database Development 
The aim of this portion is performed to establish the maximal CMC workspace database of 
normal subjects. Since the metacarpal length may influence the limits of the workspace envelope 
of the thumb, the metacarpal length of thumb was measured for each subject before the motion 
analysis study. The thumb length was obtained between the highest point of the knuckle of MP 
joint and the proximal part of the first metacarpal bone at the CMC joint. To clarify the length 
effect upon the workspace of the thumb CMC joint, the relationship between these two factors 
was modeled by a 2nd-degree polynomial, 
Surface area = b1 × 1st metacarpal length + b2 ×(1st metacarpal length)2       
where b1 and b2 are the regression coefficients for the first- and second-degree terms, 
respectively.  
 
2.1 Subjects 
Forty normal subjects with no history of surgery or injury of the thumb were recruited in our 
study to develop a normal database. The criteria of these subjects were distributed in the different 
age and gender groups as Table 1. 
 
Table 1 – The criterion of the subjects required in different age and gender groups 
 Age group 
Gender 
I 
< 15 y/o 
II 
16~35 y/o
III 
36~55 y/o
IV 
> 56 y/o 
Total 
 
Male 5 5 5 5 20 
Female 5 5 5 5 20 
Total 10 10 10 10 40 
 
Twenty of them were participate in the reliability test and the total 40 subjects were 
evaluated to establish a normal and standard maximal CMC workspace database. 
 
2.2 Data Collection and Handling 
Since the thumb length influences the limits of the workspace envelope of the thumb, the 
length of the thumb was measured for each subject before the motion analysis study. The thumb 
metacarpal length was measured by the same examiner. The experimental setup of the in vivo 
study is shown in Fig. 3a. The subject was asked to position the elbow joint in 90 degree and 
wrist joint in neutral position using a special designed device. Two miniBIRD® 800 (Ascension 
Technology Corporation, Burlington, VT, USA.) sensors were attached on the dorsal aspect of 
 6
a b 
Fig. 4 - The actual workspace of the CMC joint after spherical fitting (a). The three motion paths of the 
CMC joint: A-circumduction, B-flexion/extension and C-abduction/adduction 
 
The relationship between the metacarpal length and the maximal surface area of thumb 
metacarpal head motion from a multiple regression analysis is presented in Table 2. The 
coefficient, b1, of the first-degree term was not statistically significant (b1 = 0.048, p = 0.85). 
However, the coefficient, b2, of the second term was statistically significant (b2 = 0.933, p = 
0.001 < 0.05). Based on this regression analysis, a simplified model including only the 
second-degree term was applied to fit the data. That is, the maximal surface area was 
proportional to the square of the thumb length. 
Maximal surface area (cm2) = 0.981 × (thumb length)2 
where R2 is 0.962. A scatterplot of the surface area of workspace versus the square of the thumb 
length and the fitted linear function is shown in Figure 5. 
 
Table 2 – Multiple regression analysis of the relationship between the 
maximal surface area of CMC motion and the thumb length 
.048 .196 .846
.933 3.775 .001
right MP length
R_MP_L2
Model
1
Beta
Coefficients
t Sig.
 
10.00 20.00 30.00
r_mp_l2
5.00
10.00
15.00
20.00
25.00
d_
a3
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
AA
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
AA A
A
A A AA
A
 
Fig. 5- The scatterplot of the maximal surface area of CMC motion 
versus the square of thumb metacarpal length and associated regression 
line 
 
The coefficients of each age group were 0.977, 0.989, 0.975 and 0.991 for group I, II, III and 
IV, respectively. The coefficients were 0.979 and 0.985 for the male and female groups, 
