程之趨勢。 
可利用之產業及可開發之產品：半導體產業、電子散熱元件等 
推廣及運用的價值：簡化半導體製程，提升銅製程所須元件之高溫穩定性，進
而可促進業者投資並增加就業人數⋯⋯⋯等。 
 
三年後正式公開 
※ 備註：依規定，精簡報告係可供國科會立即公開之資料，並以 4至 10 頁為原
則，如有圖片或照片請以附加檔案上傳，如因涉及專利、技術移轉案
或其他智慧財產權、影響公序良俗或政治社會安定等，而不宜對外公
開者，請勿將其列入精簡報告；原則上本會將公開精簡報告，完整報
告原則上不予公開。 
  
1. Introduction 
The electrical conductivity and 
electromigration resistance achieved during 
Cu metallization are higher than those 
observed during Al metallization (wherein Al 
films are deposited on Si substrates). 
Therefore, Cu metallization has been widely 
used in the manufacture of ultra-large-scale 
integrated (ULSI) circuits. However, the main 
disadvantages in Cu metallization are the 
undesired reaction between Cu and Si and the 
massive diffusion of Cu into the Si or SiO2 
layer. Thus, during the fabrication of 
microelectronic devices, it is necessary to 
prevent the formation of copper silicide at low 
temperatures. Generally, a barrier layer (e.g., 
TaN) is introduced between the Cu and Si 
layers in order to avoid the diffusion of Cu 
into Si. The resistivity of microelectronic 
devices increases significantly when they are 
scaled down to the nanometer range, mainly 
because of electron scattering and grain 
boundary scattering [1]. This can be avoided 
by adopting barrierless or barrier-free Cu 
metallization techniques. In barrierless 
metallization, an insoluble substance is 
introduced into pure Cu by co-sputtering to 
form Cu alloy films. The obtained Cu alloy 
films have high thermal stability because the 
reaction between Cu and Si is effectively 
suppressed.  
The use of this novel barrierless Cu 
alloy film simplifies the manufacturing 
process and reduces manufacturing costs. Cu 
alloy films are used to improve the thermal 
stability, as alloying of an insoluble substance 
(e.g., W [2]) with Cu on barrierless Si results 
in the formation of distinct microstructures 
with good thermal properties. These structures 
have several important applications in 
materials science. Our previous study [2-7] 
showed that Cu(RuN) [5] alloy films are 
thermally stable up to 680°C. In the present 
study, we investigate the thermal properties of 
Cu(HfNx) and Cu(RuHfNx) films on 
barrierless Si substrates after annealing at 
various temperatures. We also investigate 
thermally induced changes in the crystal 
structures and microstructures and the 
electrical properties (leakage current, 
resistivity, and TDDB lifetime) of these alloy 
systems. 
 
2. Experimental Procedure 
Two types of 300-nm-thick Cu films 
were prepared: the first contained 0.4 at.% Hf, 
0.3 at.% N, and 0.1 at.% Ru, while the second 
contained 0.3 at.% Hf and 0.2 at.% N. These 
films were deposited on barrierless Si(100) 
substrates. The films were fabricated by 
co-sputtering Cu with Hf or Hf/Ru targets in 
an Ar/N2 gas atmosphere at a working 
pressure of 7 × 10–3 Torr. Hereafter, these 
films will be referred to as Cu(HfNx) and 
Cu(RuHfNx) films, respectively. The film 
composition was confirmed by secondary-ion 
mass spectroscopy (SIMS) and electron probe 
microanalysis (EPMA). The samples were 
post-annealed for 1 h under a 10–7 Torr 
vacuum at temperatures up to 750°C. 
Crystallographic and microstructural analyses 
and chemical composition determination were 
carried out by X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray 
photospectroscopy (XPS), focused ion beam 
(FIB) microscopy, transmission electron 
microscopy (TEM), and X-ray energy 
dispersive spectroscopy (EDS). The resistivity 
of the films was measured at room 
temperature using the four-point probe 
method, while the leakage current 
characteristics were determined by measuring 
the current–voltage (I–V) curves of the films 
deposited on a SiO2(350 nm)/Si 
metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) multilayer. 
The reliability of the Cu films was determined 
by evaluating the TDDB lifetimes. 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
The electron diffraction pattern results 
(Fig. 1) indicate the presence of a Hf4N3 phase 
(JCPD#24-0465) in the as-deposited 
Cu(RuHfNx) film. Figure 2 shows the XPS 
results obtained for the as-deposited 
Cu(RuHfNx) films after sputter etching for 20 
min. The Cu 2p3 spectrum of this film 
indicates that there is no change in the binding 
energy of pure Cu (Fig. 2(a)). The N 1s (Fig. 
2(b)) and Hf 4d5 and Ru 3d5 (Figs. 2(c) and 
2(d)) spectra suggest the presence of a bond 
between Ru, Hf, and N in the RuHfN phase. 
The presence of the Hf4N3 phase is thus 
confirmed by using a combination of electron 
diffraction pattern and XPS, and the 
as-deposited Cu(RuHfNx) film is confirmed to 
be a supersaturated solid solution. 
observed for barrier metal layers such as TiN 
[11], Ta [11], and TaN [11]. In addition, the 
use of Cu(RuHfNx) films makes the 
metallization process simple and inexpensive, 
as no barrier layer would be required in this 
case. The cross-sectional TEM images of the 
as-deposited Cu(RuHfNx) films shown in Fig. 
6(a) reveal that the columnar grain sizes are 
16 ± 3 nm. The apparent grain refinement in 
the Cu(RuHfNx) layer is predominantly due to 
the presence of the Hf4N3 phase, as confirmed 
by the electron d XRD patterns  shown in Fig. 
1. The high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image 
in 
Fig. 6a reveals the existence of an 
~2.6-nm-thick native oxide layer between 
Cu(RuHfNx) and the Si substrate. The 
Cu(RuHfNx) film cross-sectional TEM images 
obtained after annealing at 720°C (Fig. 6(b)) 
reveal the presence of different grain 
structures in the film, probably due to 
recrystallization and grain growth (110 ± 5 
nm). The resistivity of a film with fully 
recrystallized coarse grains decreases to ~2.4 
µΩ-cm (Fig. 3).  
The circled areas in Fig. 6(b) indicate 
that the thickness of the native oxide layer is 
~2.7 nm. Furthermore, the selected-area 
diffraction (SAD) pattern of the 
Cu(RuHfNx)/substrate interface. Fig. 6(c)) 
reveals that the major phase in this film after 
annealing is the Cu matrix with trace amounts 
of Hf4N3. Thus, it can be inferred that Hf, 
trace amounts of Ru, and N separate out from 
the Cu matrix during annealing. The major 
diffraction spots in Fig. 6(c) are attributed to 
Si because the Si substrate is inevitably 
included in the 100-nm aperture during the 
diffraction pattern analysis. The composition 
and structure of the interface, however, are not 
confirmed from these results because the 
analytical techniques adopted in this study are 
not sufficiently sensitive to the minor amounts 
of Hf, Ru, and N formed. Further 
investigations are required to clarify the 
changes occurring in the 
Cu(RuHfNx)/substrate during 
high-temperature annealing. Nevertheless, the 
formation of reaction layers by the 
precipitation of solute atoms from the Cu 
matrix has been observed in the case of other 
Cu alloy systems such as Cu(7.9 at.%Mn) [9] 
and Cu(7.3 at.%Ti) [12,13]. 
 
4. Summary 
The resistivity of the Cu(HfNx) and 
Cu(RuHfNx) film containing trace amounts of 
HfNx and RuHfNx deposited on barrierless Si 
is 2.95 and 2.75 µΩ-cm after annealing at 630 
and 720°C for 1 h; since no copper silicide 
formation is observed, this film has excellent 
thermal stability and low leakage current and 
resistivity. In addition, the leakage current of 
these films is approximately three orders of 
magnitude lower than that of the pure Cu film. 
The adhesion of these films on Si is improved 
considerably in the as-deposited and annealed 
states. In addition, because of their long 
TDDB lifetimes (>10 years), the Cu(RuNx) 
and Cu(ReNx) films are promising candidates 
for interconnect materials. 
 
 
