中文摘要 
現今，無線網路的精進及手持式裝置的可攜性，使得資訊的擷取、記錄與攜帶都非常
便利，結合手持式裝置應用於戶外及實驗室的教學活動已相當普遍，而在一般傳統教室的
教學活動中，此裝置亦可作為支援教師進行教學活動之利器。鑒於傳統式的課堂教學因師
生比例落差大，學生易困於被動式的學習瓶頸中，加上教師也無法有效記錄學生的個別學
習歷程，進而給予適當的回饋或輔導，本研究在一般大學課堂教學情境中，提出從人機互
動設計的觀點，建置可用之行動學習系統 (Mobile Learning System, MLS)於個人數位助理 
(Personal Digital Assistant, PDA)當中，並透過實驗設計加以驗證其優於傳統教室教學的實用
性。 
然而，良好的小螢幕介面設計將是此行動學習系統績效的關鍵因素；其次，由於橫式
介面的設計具發展趨勢，本研究除強調藉由小螢幕介面設計準則，來提升MLS 的運用績效
外，亦一併探討橫式介面在內容設計上的適用性。透過課程任務分析、文獻回顧及實驗設
計，彙整運用小螢幕介面設計原則及發現潛在的人機互動問題，設計出易於操作使用且具
有高度親和性的 PDA介面，最後藉由主觀性問卷評量系統績效及受試者滿意度。此系統將
有效區別專為設計於桌上型電腦(PC)或筆記型電腦(Laptop)之數位學習系統，且有利於課程
互動時訊息之有效率傳遞以及互動模式之持續改善。實驗的結果顯示，MLS 確實能輔助學
生更主動、更自決自主地學習。此外，不論是否考慮課程內容的組合，受試者以偏好橫式
介面展示為居多。 
關鍵詞：人機互動(HCI)、行動學習系統(MLS)、小螢幕介面設計 
英文摘要 
Today, the convenience to retrieve, record, and move information is due to advanced 
wireless and portable handheld. As we know, the conventional classroom learning appears the 
passive bottleneck because the learning model is that one instructor faces on many students.  
Moreover, instructor cannot effectively record students’ individual learning history for instant 
and suitable feedback.  In this study, we developing a usable mobile learning system (MLS) into 
personal digital assistant (PDA) based on the principal of human-computer interaction (HCI).  
And we evaluating the digital learning assistant model is superior to conventional one. 
At the same time, the well-designed small-screen will be the critical factor for promoting the 
MLS performance.  The next, we observed the tendency of horizontal interface development.  
So the research appeared the adaptive contents design in that except focusing on small-screen 
design.  We utilized task analysis, literature review, experimental design, small-screen design, 
and potential issues appearance for designing a friendly PDA interface, analyzing the 
performance and user’s satisfaction by a subject questionnaire.  The MLS prototype of PDA will 
be very different from PC or laptop and will effectively enhance learning interest and interactive 
model in the conventional classroom. 
By the results of the experiment, we found that the mobile-based classroom learning 
providing appropriate mobile tools would help students to become capable, self-reliant, 
self-motivated and independent.  The findings also demonstrate that variations among students’ 
preference or content are associated with differences in presented mode. 
Keywords: Human-Computer Interaction(HCI), Mobile Learning System(MLS), Small-Screen 
Design 
& Buchanan (1999) have suggested, services for PDA should be well focused and well organized. 
3.) Expansion of knowledge acquisition 
Anecdotal evidence suggests that students enjoy the technology and become more active in their learning when 
handheld devices are used in the classroom setting.  There is every indication that in the near future wireless data 
devices will be as widespread as cell phones are now.  Wireless access to MLS articles from PDA increases the 
interactivity and ease of obtaining information.  Instructor can collect student values and respond in a more timely 
fashion than with paper-based traditional learning. 
4.) Interactive questions and intelligent help 
Research has consistently shown that frequent communication between instructor and student can significantly 
enhance learning rates and overall student performance (McKeachie, 1999).  Teachers and the teaching literature 
both report that the most valuable learning opportunities occur when students can ask questions while they are 
actually working with scientific data (Gleason and Novak, 2001).  Similarly, interactions between students can 
enhance peer-to-peer discovery, problem solving, and knowledge acquisition. 
The emerging technology of mobile wireless devices offers a promising tool for helping instructors create a more 
interactive, student-centric classroom, especially when teaching large courses. 
3. USER INTERFACE DESIGN 
To present information effectively on a PDA interface, the course designer must minimize the inherent limitations 
in that interface, the most obvious being the restricted size and resolution of the interface.  Selecting the information 
and elements to present on the screen is discussed as a substantial part of interface design, and in particular to small 
screen devices.  Central factors in designing for small screen devices are highlighted and exemplified. 
3.1 MOBILE HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION (HCI) 
Although the PDA has great potential in supporting mobile wireless classroom, but several studies have shown that 
screen size does have an effect on performance (Watters, C. J. Duffy, & K. Duffy, 2001) – the small screen space can 
display relatively little data at a given time, resulting in difficulties in using the device for complex tasks, as well as 
the reason why research on the mobile human-computer interaction (HCI) primarily concentrates on presenting 
information on a small display, and emphasis on user experience, reflection, and collaboration.  The design of 
mobile devices and services cannot be merely technology-driven (as it often happens today), but needs to be 
prompted by human needs and has to properly take into account human abilities, limitations, and preferences.  
Mobile services will not be successful if we do not understand mobile users and design for their contexts, which are 
very different from the ones traditionally studied in HCI.  Users will not enthusiastically adopt mobile computing 
devices if we are not able to prevent the pains and complexities of interacting through very limited input and output 
facilities. 
3.2 GUIDELINES FOR SMALL SCREEN DESIGN 
The background for exploring this field is the introduction of PDA within the field of education.  Especially in the 
setting of students in a classroom, it is essential that the design of the interface is usable, that is, effective to use, 
efficient in use and satisfying to use.  Interface designer can think about how the interface should be organized to 
present the information clearly, what information should be presented, what guidelines exist for designing interfaces, 
how to design for usability and how the users perceive the information presented.  As Tufte (1990) states: “Clutter 
and confusions are failures of design, not attributes of information”.  Certainly the influence of human interactions 
on knowledge construction is so pervasive that a proper understanding of learning cannot be achieved without taking 
into account its social dimension.  Since much learning is done within a social context, it becomes important to 
comfortable with the system and to design appropriate interface for student consideration.  In a MLS-facilitated 
lecture, there is still a place for presentation of material or demonstrations to ensure that students are exposed to 
specific ideas.  For example, a short presentation can be used to set the stage for having students answer a particular 
set of questions or to clarify issues raised by students following the class-wide discussion of a question. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. A constructive m-learning activity for MLS 
As Figure 1 shows, in mobile-based classroom learning environment, instructor, students and Teaching assistants 
comprise a team dedicated to learning.  The student using a handheld device facilitates communication with the 
instructor, peers, and materials fast and effectively.  Using wireless devices eliminates the need for instructors to 
wait for access to a typically limited number of computers with an internet connection and allows them to research 
web resources or send quizzes (or documents) to students at their convenience, and students can post questions to the 
newsgroup without interrupting the flow of the lecture.  Teaching assistants can answer questions immediately, 
either during lecture when they have the option of passing questions on to instructor.  Teaching assistants 
monitoring the students’ responses during class can signal the instructor when a particularly interesting or frequent 
question is raised.  In turn, the students can address that concern immediately.  Within this environment the 
instructor can create tasks or questions in a variety of styles, present them to the audience by projection or by 
downloading questions and/or text to the PDA, and if desired, provide response-specific feedback to the student.  
Programming contained in the central unit permits the instructor to examine the collected responses, display the 
results to the audience, and store them for future analysis.  MLS includes facilities for incorporating active learning 
exercises into the lectures, providing instructor with instant feedback on student comprehension in the form of 
quizzes and interactive polling. 
4.1 PORTRAIT AND LANDSCAPE PRESSENTATION MODES 
Two versions of display type to access mobile learning system were used for the study as figure 2 (a) (b).  We 
prepared one version of each type of document for MLS.  The content of each type of document remain the same, 
only the page layout changed.  The portrait/landscape document is a composed of texts, tables and pictures, in 
which the landscape mode was redesigned to be the maximum number of lines that would fit on the Palm Pilot 
without requiring scrolling. 
 
 
 
 
Student 
When a student enters a class, he 
swipes his PDA at the door to get 
lecture outline. 
As soon as the lecture 
starts, he sees notes and 
additional information 
synchronized with lecture. 
If he has a question during lecture, 
the student can enter it into the PDA 
and send it to the TA.  The TA 
reviews the questions and selects 
common or interesting questions to 
pose to the instructor. 
When the student answers, he 
sees feedback on his answer 
as well as a histogram of how 
the class answered. 
Instructor can deliver 
mini-quizzes that “pop up” on 
students PDA. 
Wireless 
 
Instructor 
TA 
Teaching 
assistant 
Student 
Student 
Mobile Learning System Function 
[5] Gleason, C. & Novak, A. Incorporating Portable Technology to Enhance an Inquiry, Project-Based Middle 
School Science Classroom. in Tinker, R.F. & Krajcik, J.S. (Eds.). Portable Technologies, Science Learning in 
Context New York: Kluwer Academic/Plenum Publishers, 2001. 
[6] Götz, Veruschka. Color & Type for the Screen. RotoVision. chapter 4, 68-99, 1998. 
[7] Gregory D. Abowd & Elizabeth D. Mynatt. Charting Past, Present and Future Research in Ubiquitous 
Computing. ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction, 7, 1 (2000), 29-58. 
[8] Jones, M., Marsden, G., Mohd-Nasir, N., Boone, K., & Buchanan, G. Improving Web interaction on small 
displays. Computer Networks, 31 (1999), 1129-1137. Elsevier. 
[9] Klopfer, E, Squire, K and Jenkins, H. Environmental Detectives: PDAs as a window into a virtual simulated 
world. Proceedings of IEEE International Workshop on Wireless and Mobile Technologies in Education. Vaxjo, 
Sweden: IEEE Computer Society, 2002, 95-98 
[10] Kvavik, R.B. Convenience, communication, and control: How students use technology. In D.G. Oblinger, & J.L. 
Oblinger (Eds.), Educating the net generation, Boulder, CO: Educause, 2005,.7.1-7.20. 
[11] Nielsen, Jakob. Usability Engineering. chapter 2 & 5, Academic Press, Inc, 1993. 
[12] Paul G.. Shotsberger, & Ron Vetter. Teaching and Learning in the Wireless Classroom. IEEE Computer Society, 
34, 3 (2001), 110-111. 
[13] Skogen, Martha Rice Design Principles for Electronic User Interfaces - Especially in small-screen format. 
Lectures：06-10-2004. 
[14] Tufte, Edward R. Envisioning Information. Graphics Press, Cheshire, Connecticut, 1990. 
[15] Watters, C., J.Duffy, & K.Duffy. Moderating the Effect of Screen Size. Technical Report. FCS Dalhousie 
University, 2001. 
[16] Wilbert J. McKeachie. Teaching tips: Strategies, research, and theory for college and university teachers. 
Houghton Mifflin, Boston. Houghton Mifflin Company, 1999. 
計劃成果自評 
現今，無線網路的精進及手持式裝置的可攜性，使得資訊的擷取、記錄與攜帶都非常
便利，結合手持式裝置應用於戶外及實驗室的教學活動已相當普遍，而在一般傳統教室的
教學活動中，此裝置亦可作為支援教師進行教學活動之利器。鑒於傳統式的課堂教學因師
生比例落差大，學生易困於被動式的學習瓶頸中，加上教師也無法有效記錄學生的個別學
習歷程，進而給予適當的回饋或輔導，本研究在一般大學課堂教學情境中，提出從人機互
動設計的觀點，建置可用之行動學習系統 (Mobile Learning System, MLS)於個人數位助理 
(Personal Digital Assistant, PDA)當中，並透過實驗設計加以驗證其優於傳統教室教學的實用
性。 
然而，良好的小螢幕介面設計將是此行動學習系統績效的關鍵因素；其次，由於橫式
介面的設計具發展趨勢，本研究除強調藉由小螢幕介面設計準則，來提升MLS 的運用績效
外，亦一併探討橫式介面在內容設計上的適用性。透過課程任務分析、文獻回顧及實驗設
計，彙整運用小螢幕介面設計原則及發現潛在的人機互動問題，設計出易於操作使用且具
有高度親和性的 PDA介面，最後藉由主觀性問卷評量系統績效及受試者滿意度。此系統將
有效區別專為設計於桌上型電腦(PC)或筆記型電腦(Laptop)之數位學習系統，且有利於課程
互動時訊息之有效率傳遞以及互動模式之持續改善。實驗的結果顯示，MLS 確實能輔助學
生更主動、更自決自主地學習。此外，不論是否考慮課程內容的組合，受試者以偏好橫式
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：96年 8月 1日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：人機互動設計於行動學習系統建構之研究 
計畫主持人：蘇國瑋         
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-327-008      學門領域：資訊系統 
技術/創作名稱 易用之英語行動學習系統 
發明人/創作人 蘇國瑋、郭孟芳 
中文： 
本研究在一般大學課堂教學情境中，提出從人機互動設計的觀
點，建置可用之行動學習系統 (Mobile Learning System, MLS)於個
人數位助理 (Personal Digital Assistant, PDA)當中，並透過實驗設計
加以驗證其優於傳統教室教學的實用性。 
技術說明 英文： 
We utilized task analysis, literature review, experimental design, 
small-screen design, and potential issues appearance for designing a 
friendly PDA interface, analyzing the performance and user’s 
satisfaction by a subject questionnaire.  The MLS prototype of PDA 
will be very different from PC or laptop and will effectively enhance 
learning interest and interactive model in the conventional classroom. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
教育學習產業 
行動學習系統 
技術特點 
良好的小螢幕介面設計將是此行動學習系統績效的關鍵因
素；其次，由於橫式介面的設計具發展趨勢，本研究除強調藉由小
螢幕介面設計準則，來提升 MLS 的運用績效外，亦一併探討橫式
介面在內容設計上的適用性。透過課程任務分析、文獻回顧及實驗
設計，彙整運用小螢幕介面設計原則及發現潛在的人機互動問題，
設計出易於操作使用且具有高度親和性的 PDA 介面，最後藉由主
觀性問卷評量系統績效及受試者滿意度。 
推廣及運用的價值 
此系統將有效區別專為設計於桌上型電腦(PC)或筆記型電腦
(Laptop)之數位學習系統，且有利於課程互動時訊息之有效率傳遞
以及互動模式之持續改善。實驗的結果顯示，MLS 確實能輔助學
生更主動、更自決自主地學習。此外，不論是否考慮課程內容的組
合，受試者以偏好橫式介面展示為居多。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研發成果推廣單
位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
附件二 
An Empirical Study of Developing an Adaptive 
Location-Based Services Interface on Smartphone 
Kuo-Wei Su
1,*
, Ching-Chang Lee
1
 , Li-Kai Chen
1 
1Department of Information Management, National Kaohsiung First University of Science 
and Technology, Kaohsiung City, TAIWAN, R.O.C. 
*Email: kwsu@ccms.nkfust.edu.tw 
Abstract: A mobile market shows that the global LBS (Location-Based Service) 
market is noticeable and continues to grow rapidly.  With the coming of 
mobile applications, the requirement of the small screen interface (SSI) is even 
more reinforced because of the need for more functions and contents on the 
devices.  This research explore an empirical study of user access to PoI’s 
(Point of Interest) information of the map view display (MVD) and list view 
display (LVD) meeting the user's needs base on the principle of adaptive and 
intuitive visualization on Smartphone.  Further, the prototype of LBS on 
smartphone was emulated by VB.Net program, which interfaces are evaluated 
through objective measurement and subjective investigation.  Our study’s 
results appear cognition of symbols that affects operating performance, so the 
suggestion is towards using LVD more effectively than MVD on LBS 
applications.  The findings of the study will be helpful to enrich functionality 
and customization of the LBS appearance on smartphone.   
Keywords: Location-Based Service, Point of Interest, Map View Display, List 
View Display, Adaptive Visualization, Small Screen Interface. 
1   Introduction 
About recently years, mobile networks are widely deployed in global mobile market 
(including Taiwan) and income from telephony services had proven to be significant 
to mobile operators.  As well as according to figures from market researchers 
Canalys point out shipments of converged smart mobile devices, namely 
smart-phones and wireless handhelds, rise by 170% year-on-year in first part of 2005 
in Europe and Middle East as, in contrast, standard mobile phone shipments rise by 
only 11% [1].  By the way, in some countries such as Japan and South Korea, mobile 
Internet use is growing rapidly.  For example, NTT DoCoMo reports, that the 
number of i-mode subscribers now exceeds 38 million, which is nearly half of all 
cellular phone subscribers in Japan [12].  Reed stated "telecommunication 
companies are making huge investments and they know LBS technology is a key 
application from which they can generate revenue"[15].  While mobile users operate 
the add-value service, they suffer some possible problems of the lack of screen space.  
The display of dynamic PoI information on the map shall be tailored to the needs of 
users, thus the PoI information must be simple and intuitive without overly complex 
表 Y04 
Representations may be presented symbolically, graphically, or iconically and are 
often differentiated from other forms of expression (textual, verbal or formulaic) by 
virtue of their synoptic format and with qualities traditionally described by the term 
´Gestalt´.  The adaptive geovisualization service will produce mobile maps which 
the user gets the possibility to specify the information he needs for his purpose, the 
system selects the necessary data and omit unimportant details.  Dunlop, Ptasinski, 
Morrison, McCallum, Riseby, Stewart present two types of views providing both map 
and list-index information access: (1) MVD (Fig 2a) (2) LVD (Fig 2b)[4]. 
 
 
Fig. (2a). MVD            Fig. (2b). LVD 
In the past one of the problems with using menus is that they take up a lot of space on 
the screen.  Two solutions are the use of pull-down or pop-up menu [14].  Most 
windowing systems provide a system of menus consisting of implicit or explicit 
pop-up menus [11].  As well as Crampton describes taxonomy of interactive 
functions in geo-visualization and argues that a highly interactive map provides many 
of theses functions, whereas a non-interactive map (e.g. a scanned raster map) does 
not offer any interaction possibilities [3].  Interactivity is mostly used to compensate 
for the small displays and not for enhancing the user experience.  Thus while small 
display interface design processes, consideration of user aspect is indispensable.  
Reichenbacher expressed graphical means to put a visual emphasis or focus on 
several features are [16]: 
 highlighting the object using a signal color, e.g. pink or yellow (color) 
 emphasizing the outline of the object 
 enhancing the LoD(Level of Detail) of the object against that of other objects 
 animating the object (blinking, shaking, rotating, increasing/decreasing size) 
 clicking on a graphics object you are able to drill-down to more detailed 
information of that object [6]. 
Whereas some projects there are few studies which dealt with the map displays on 
mobile devices.  Such Reichenbacher has studied the process of adaptive and 
dynamic generation of map visualization for mobile users [16].  Besides, Jern plays a 
major role in a dynamic user interface enabling the user to take a more active role in 
the process of visualizing and investigating data [6].  Graphics and icons can help 
support the function of the table of contents.  In addition to the many new tools to 
highlight their functionality, they can be even more effective as guides through and 
表 Y04 
 
Fig. 4. Interface flow of a generic restaurant finder application (MVD) 
The procedure of usage is showed in Fig. 3, which LVD in LBSI allows the users to 
access the list of the two selections of a main menu (3a), from which the users can 
select a city (3b), to select which located area (shihlin) (3c), show the located map of 
shihlin (3d), after clicking menu button, to select the icon of restaurant in Hide 
Pop-up POI menu (3e), user can choose one of three types of food which is favorite 
and your preference price level (3f), all the icons of restaurants will be showed in 
visible area on screen, on the map individually, it is enlarged then shaking up and 
down when the icon is selected that user will focus on it as well as the usage of a 
表 Y04 
measured to characterize user efficiency and usability: 
1. Operating time: time of operation the tasks of finding their POI (friends or 
restaurants). 
2. Clicks: times of clicks of assigned task performance in all procedure. 
3. Error of clicks: error times of clicks of assigned task performance in all procedure 
(other clicks without correct route which include backward). 
 
4.3 Research Hypothesis 
 
The hypotheses were tested in the SPSS V12.0 software using the repeated 
measurement General Linear Model (GLM).  The significance level was set to 5% 
and the level of multiple comparisons was independent T-test.  Our hypotheses for 
the experiment were that below: 
1. By operating time, which display provided better user performance between LVD 
and MVD? 
2. By clicking times, which display provided better user performance between LVD 
and MVD? 
3. By error of clicking times, which display provided better user performance between 
LVD and MVD? 
 
4.4 Experimental Procedure and Data Collection 
 
Each user was first asked to familiarize with the interface for approximately 5minutes.  
No manual was at hand.  The experimenter stressed that it was a prototype service 
and that automatic location of the user’s present location was not implemented.  The 
user was asked to accomplish each task while “talking aloud”.  Since clarifications 
regarding an opinion were seen as important, only accuracy was considered and 
completion times were measured.  If difficulties occurred, the user was first given a 
hint by the experimenter and if this information did not suffice, the user was guided 
through the task before starting with the next. 
 Objective: time taken to complete the individual questions, the number of clicks 
needed to be followed to complete a task (refereed to here as clicks), and fill in 
questionnaire completed later. 
 Subjective: degree of user satisfaction, user comments and suggestions. 
5   Results and discussion 
In this chapter, the performance of all participates was evaluated by these three 
indicates: operating time, Clicks, Error of clicks and post-questionnaire. 
 
5.1 Operating Time, Clicking Time and Error of Clicking Time aspects 
 
As shown in Table 3, 
