 
 
 
 
1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
針對一類光電成像系統之成像品質分析與強健控制 
Imaging Quality Analysis and Robust Control for a Class of 
Electrophotographic or Xerographic Systems 
 
計畫編號：NSC94-2118-E-005-017 
執行期限：94 年 08 月 01 日至 95 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：陳正倫  國立中興大學電機工程學系(所) 
計畫參與人員:楊衍修  國立中興大學電機工程學系 
 
中文摘要—本計畫針對一般雷射印表機內之馬
達運動子系統發展出結合重複控制與適應回授
線性化控制之空間領域控制法則。此控制法則
已透過模擬結果驗證其可行性與效能，研究成
果已投稿 07’ American Control Conference 
(ACC) [1]，也計畫投稿 07’ IEEE Conference on 
Control Applications (CCA)。目前正持續進行實
驗之設計與驗證。 
 
Abstract—This project proposed a new spatial-based repetitive 
control design for rotational motion systems required to 
operate at various speeds, and subject to structured parameter 
uncertainty and spatially periodic disturbances. To synthesize a 
repetitive controller in spatial domain, a linear time-invariant 
system is reformulated with respect to a spatial coordinate (e.g., 
angular displacement), which results in a nonlinear system. 
Adaptive feedback linearization is applied to linearize the 
system while seeking the correct system parameters online. 
Then, a spatial-based reduced-order repetitive controller along 
with a stabilizing controller is designed and operates in parallel 
with the adaptively feedback linearized system. The overall 
adaptive repetitive control system is thus robust to structured 
parameter uncertainty and spatially periodic disturbances 
under variable process speed. Feasibility and effectiveness of 
the proposed scheme is verified by simulation. The results have 
been documented and submitted to 07’ American Control 
Conference (ACC). We are also planning on making 
submission to 07’ IEEE Conference on Control Applications 
(CCA). Experimental verification is currently in progress. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
OTATIONAL motion systems have found their 
application in many industry products. In most 
application, the systems are required to operate at different 
nominal speed while following periodic trajectories and/or 
resisting periodic fluctuations. For example, the brushless dc 
motor in a typical laser printer may need to operate at 
different speed when driving the image formation 
component for printing tasks of different media or resolution. 
Also, laser printing systems often suffer from a type of print 
artifacts (known as banding), which is mostly due to 
periodic disturbances affecting the angular velocity of the 
image formation component (see e.g., [1]). Repetitive 
control based system has been shown to be effective for 
tracking periodic reference commands or for rejecting 
periodic disturbances. Although the idea has been verified as 
early as 1981 [3], rigorous analysis and synthesis of 
repetitive controllers for continuous-time and discrete-time 
systems were not proposed until 1989, by Hara et al. [4] and 
Tomizuka et al [5], respectively. Since then, repetitive 
control has gained popularity in applications where periodic 
disturbances rejection or repetitive tracking are required. 
Typical repetitive controllers are synthesized in temporal 
domain. To ensure effectiveness of the design, an underlying 
assumption is that the tracking command or disturbance is 
stationary, i.e., the frequency spectrum of the tracking or 
disturbance signal does not vary with time. This assumption 
might be seriously violated for disturbance rejection 
problems where the frequency spectrum of the disturbance 
depends on the system operating speed. For example, for the 
motor/gear motion subsystem in laser printing systems, the 
disturbances due to gear eccentricity or tooth profile error 
are inherently spatially periodic. As has been explained in 
the literature, gear eccentricity usually induces disturbances 
that repeat once per revolution, and tooth profile error 
induces disturbances with fundamental frequency equal to 
the number of teeth per revolution. This implies that the 
temporal frequency values for these two types of 
disturbances will be proportional to the operating speed of 
the printers and vary accordingly. Therefore, in this 
particular application, a repetitive controller synthesized 
based on the temporal frequencies of disturbances might not 
R 
 
 
 
 
3
 ( ) 0,   t >0dt
dt
θω = > ∀  (3) 
will guarantee that ( )tλ  is strictly monotonic such that 
1( )t λ θ−=  exists. Thus all the variables in the time domain 
can be transformed into their counterparts in the θ -domain, 
i.e. 
 
1 1
1 1
1
ˆ ˆ( ) ( ( )),  ( ) ( ( )),
ˆˆ( ) ( ( )),  ( ) ( ( )),
ˆ ( ) ( ( )).
x x y y
u u d d
θ λ θ θ λ θ
θ λ θ θ λ θ
ω θ ω λ θ
− −
− −
−
= =
= =
=
 
Note that, in practice, (3) can usually be satisfied for most 
rotational motion system where the rotary component rotates 
only in one direction. Since 
 
ˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ( )ˆ ( )dx t d dx dx
dt dt d d
θ θ θω θθ θ= = , 
(2) can be rewritten as 
 
ˆ( )ˆ ˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ( ),
ˆˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ( ).
dx Ax Bu
d
y x d
θω θ θ θθ
θ θ θ
= +
= Ψ +
 (4) 
Equation (4) can be viewed as a nonlinear position-invariant 
(as opposed to the definition of time-invariant) system with 
the angular displacement θ  as the independent variable. 
Note that the concept of transfer function is still valid for 
linear position-invariant systems if we define the Laplace 
transform of a signal ˆ( )g θ   in the angular displacement 
domain as 
 
0
ˆ ˆ( ) ( ) sG s g e dθθ θ∞ −= ∫  . 
This definition will be used later on when we design the 
linear portion of the overall control system. 
III. ADAPTIVE REPETITIVE CONTROL SYSTEM 
In this section, we will present the design of the proposed 
adaptive repetitive control system. The overall control 
architecture is illustrated in Figure 1, which can be seen as 
consisting of two feedback loops. The inner loop is aiming at 
elimination of the nonlinearity of the system adaptively. The 
outer loop is aiming at reduction of the spatially periodic 
disturbances with finite amplitudes and frequency 
components. 
A. Input/Output Feedback Linearization 
As first step, drop the θ  notation and rewrite (4) in the 
form  
 
ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ,
ˆˆ ˆ( )
x x x u
y h x d
= +
= +
f g
 (5) 
where 
 
2
0 1 1 2
ˆ
ˆˆ( )
ˆ ˆ
ˆ
x
x
a x a x
ω
ω
   = − −   
f , 
0
ˆ( ) 1
ˆ
x
ω
  =    
g , 0 1 1 2ˆ ˆ ˆ( ) .h x b x b x= +  
Suppose that the angular velocity equals the undisturbed 
output, i.e., ˆ ˆ( )h xω = . Next, differentiate yˆ  with respect 
to θ  until uˆ  appears. For systems with relative degree 
equal to one (i.e., 1 0b ≠ ), we have 
 0 12 0 1 1 2 ˆˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ( ) .ˆ ˆ
b by x a x a x u dω ω= + − − + +
  (6) 
A control law to cancel the nonlinear terms can be designed 
as 
 1 0 1 1 2 0 1 22
1
ˆ ˆˆ ( )ˆ ˆ ,
ˆ ˆ d
b a x a x b b x
u v
b
ω
ω ω
+ = − +    
which reduces (6) to 
 ˆˆ ˆ ,dy v d= +   
where ˆdv  can be used to specify the dynamics of the 
linearized system. For systems with relative degree equal to 
two (i.e., 1 0b = ), we have 
 
2 2
0 0 2
0 1 1 22 3
ˆ ˆˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ( ) .
ˆ ˆ
b b x
y a x a x u dω ω= − − + − +
  (7) 
A control law to cancel the nonlinear terms can be designed 
as 
 
3 22
0 0 1 1 2 0 2
2 5
0
ˆ ˆ ˆˆ ( )ˆ ˆ ,
ˆ ˆ d
b a x a x b x
u v
b
ω
ω ω
 += + +   
 
which reduces (7) to 
 ˆˆ ˆ .dy v d= +   (8) 
Note that stability of the zero dynamics needs to be further 
investigated for the system with relative degree equal to one. 
Due to limitation of the number of pages, we will focus on 
the case in which the system has relative degree equal to two 
in this paper. 
Define the output error ˆ ˆ ˆre y y− . If we specify ˆdv  
such that 
 ˆ1 2ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ,d r r r Rv y y y y y uα α= + − + − +    
where ˆry  is the reference command and ˆˆRu  is another 
designable input, (8) will become 
 ˆ1 2 ˆˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ .Re e e u dα α+ + = +    (9) 
Thus, the relationship between the input and output for the 
linearized system can be expressed as 
 
2
ˆ2 2
1 2 1 2
1 ˆˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ( ).R
sE s U s d s
s s s sα α α α= ++ + + +
       (10) 
B. Adaptive Feedback Linearization [11] 
As shown previously, feedback linearization is based on 
exact cancellation of the nonlinear terms in the system. In 
practical situation, if there is any uncertainty in the system 
parameters, the cancellation will not be exact and the 
resulting system will not be linear. However, parameter 
adaptive control can be used to overcome this disadvantage. 
For adaptively adjusting the parameters of (5) online, note 
that 
 
 
 
 
5
As shown in Figure 1, the output error ˆ ( )E s  and the 
control input ˆˆ ( )RU s  can be related by 
 ˆ ˆˆ ˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ),RU s R s C s E s= −     (16) 
where ˆ( )R s  is the repetitive controller and ˆ ( )C s  is a 
stabilizing controller, which can be determined using any 
linear controller design paradigm. The overall closed-loop 
system, after substituting (16) into (10), can be described  
by 
 
2ˆ ( ) ( ) .ˆ ˆˆ1 ( ) ( ) ( )( )
E s M s s
M s R s C sd s
= +
  
    
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS 
The proposed adaptive repetitive control scheme is 
applied to a brush dc motor system. The actual system is 
assumed to be a 2nd order system as described by (1) with 
0 5a = , 1 3a = , 0 6b = , and 1 0b = . For verification 
purpose, the spatially periodic disturbance is assumed to 
consist of only one sinusoidal component: 
 ˆ( ) 0.1 sin(2 ).d θ πθ= ×  
Thus, a feasible ˆ ( )R s  can be expressed as 
 
2 2
2 2
2ˆ( ) ,
2
n n
n n
s s
R s
s s
ςω ω
ξω ω
+ += + +
     
where 0.001ς = , 0.0002ξ = , and 6.2832nω = . The 
linearized system is specified by 1 20α =  and 2 300α = , 
which has a damping ratio of 0.58. It turns out that a 
constant gain, i.e., ˆ ( ) 300C s =  is sufficient to stabilize the 
repetitive-based linearized system. Suppose a task demands 
the system to initially run at 2 rev/s for 10 revolutions and 
then speed up to 3 rev/s. To avoid infinite value when taking 
derivative, the reference command is specified to have 
smooth (instead of instant) change. The initial values of the 
estimated parameters are set to 0 1a = , 1 0.6a = , and 
0 1.2b = . The adaptation rate ρ  is set to 1.5. As shown in 
Figure 2, all three estimated parameters converge to real 
parameter values (with decent errors) within 10 revolutions. 
Figure 3 shows the tracking performance of the system 
under the influence of the sinusoidal disturbance. It can be 
seen that the system followed the reference command pretty 
well after about one revolution of transient response. The 
lower right plot is a zoom-in of the tracking error, which 
shows that the effect of the sinusoidal disturbance was 
attenuated by the repetitive controller. The response of the 
two system states ( 1ˆx  and 2xˆ ) was also shown in the figure 
(see the upper right plot). 
V. 研究成果自評 
本計畫原預定針對一類光電成像系統，即熟知
之雷射印表機，作一系列之應用研究。由於所
核發之經費與人力資源不足，故必須縮減研究
項目並將研究重點放在印表機內傳輸運動子系
統主馬達之伺服控制，並發展出結合重複控制
與適應回授線性化控制之空間領域控制法則。
此控制法則已透過模擬結果驗證其可行性與效
能，初步研究成果已投稿 07’ American Control 
Conference (ACC) [1]。待完成收斂性與穩定性
之分析與探討後計畫投稿 07’ IEEE Conference 
on Control Applications (CCA)。目前也正持續進
行實驗之設計與驗證。完成實驗驗證後整合之
成果應可進一步投稿中上之 SCI 期刊。 
REFERENCES 
[1] C.-L. Chen and Yean-Shion Yang, “Adaptive Repetitive Control for 
Uncertain Variable-Speed Rotational Motion Systems Subject to 
Spatially Periodic Disturbances,” submitted to 2007 American Control 
Conference (to be held in New York, NY, USA). 
[2] C.-L. Chen, G. T.-C. Chiu and Jan P. Allebach, "Banding reduction in 
EP processes using human contrast sensitivity function shaped 
photoconductor velocity control," J. Imaging Science and Technology, 
vol. 47, no. 3, pp. 209-223, May/June 2003. 
[3] T. Inoue, M. Nakano, and S. Iwai, “High accuracy control of 
servomechanism for repeated contouring,” in Proceeding of the 10th 
Annual Symposium on Incremental Motion Control Systems and 
Devices, pp. 258-262, 1981. 
[4] S. Hara, Y. Yamamoto, T. Omata, and M. Nakano, “Repetitive control 
system: A new type servo system for periodic exogenous signals,” 
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 659-668, 
July 1988. 
[5] M. Tomizuka, T. C. Tsao, and K. K. Chew, “Analysis and synthesis of 
discrete-time repetitive controllers,” ASME Journal of Dynamic 
Systems, Measurements and Control, vol. 111, no. 3, pp. 353-358, 
September 1989. 
[6] Y. Onuki and H. Ishioka, “Compensation for repeatable tracking errors 
in hard drives using discrete-time repetitive controllers,” IEEE/ASME 
Transactions on Mechatronics, vol. 6, no 2, pp. 132-136, June 2001. 
[7] T. J. Manayathara, T.-C. Tsao, J. Bentsman, and, D. Ross, “Rejection 
of unknown periodic load disturbances in continuous steel casting 
process using learning repetitive control approach,” IEEE 
Transactions on Control Systems Technology, vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 
259-265, May 1996. 
[8] M. Nakano, J.-H. She, Y. Mastuo, and T. Hino, “Elimination of 
position-dependent disturbances in constant-speed-rotation control 
systems,” Control Engineering Practice, vol. 4, pp. 1241-1248, 1996. 
[9] C.-L. Chen and G. T.-C. Chiu, “Robust spatially sampled controller 
design for banding reduction in electrophotographic process,” Proc. 
IEEE Int. Conf. Robotics and Automation (ICRA), vol. 2, 
pp.2622-2627, 2003. 
[10] C.-L. Chen and G. T.-C. Chiu, “Compensating for spatially repetitive 
disturbance with linear parameter varying repetitive control,” Proc. 
IEEE Int. Conf. Control Applications (CCA), vol. 1, pp. 736-741, 
2004. 
[11] S. Sastry and A. Isidori, “Adaptive control of linearized systems,” 
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 34, no. 11, pp. 
1123-1131, 1989. 
 
