中文摘要
當前緊急救護體系中，患者、救護車、救護中心與醫院之間的聯絡方式主要仰賴電話
與無線電為主。患者經由電話呼叫 119 求助，119 會自動轉接至區域之救護中心，由救護
中心根據報案之地區，以無線電通知管轄內之救護車前往事故地點。一旦救護車接收病患
後，可透過無線電獲得各醫院接收病患之狀態，以人工方式選定醫院，將病患送至該醫院
救治。在運送途中，救護車救護人員除進行急救外，須透過無線電或電話方式與該醫院確
認是否可以接收病患，假使不行，則必須再次尋找另一間醫院作為病患運送的目的地。從
上述使用語音方式作為溝通的方式，不難察覺傳統溝通模式易造成病患運送之延誤，同時
亦無法將患者危急狀態與相關生理資訊即時傳遞給醫院救護人員。
根據研究顯示，讓交通載具與其內部各種電子裝置或感測器能隨時隨地保持與網際網
路之間的連線，可透過 NEMO、MANET 或兩者混合等方式，改善乘客與駕駛者行車安全，提
供智慧型交通運輸功能，故達成無所不在網路環境(ubiquitous network environment)，
建置於交通載具內之車用資通訊系統(Telematics)將成為不可或缺的一部份。本計畫主要
目標為設計出可適用於救護車之車用資通訊服務平台，透過該平台通訊能力，救護車可於
運送途中，即時傳遞患者危急狀態與生理資訊至醫院，同時整合醫院後端之醫療資訊系統，
完成病歷調閱、血液備存…等醫療預先準備，以提升患者之醫療服務品質。
關鍵字：Telematics, Ambulance, Multihoming, Network Mobility (NEMO)
目錄
第 1 章 、研究背景與目的 ................................1
第 2 章 、文獻探討 ......................................4
第 3 章 、研究方法 ......................................7
第 4 章 、研究成果 ......................................9
參考資料 ...............................................19
2圖 1、緊急醫療病患運送示意圖。
考量車用資通訊系統(Telematics)所需之網路通訊技術，與以往一般行動網路通訊技
術之差異，其不同點在於一般行動網路通訊技術考量的是單一使用者的移動，而交通載具
相關之網路通訊技術則是考量車上各項設備也必須具有網路通訊的功能，故交通載具與其
內部設備是以群體的方式移動，故其移動的時間、距離、速度，將會與僅考量單一使用者
移動之網路通訊技術相對地複雜與迥異。
然而，關於車用資通訊系統(Telematics)或智慧型交通運輸系統(ITS)發展之現況，
依舊圍繞車輛內部元件與其配合之網路環境，主要課題為維持車輛行進控制與提高行車過
程安全，並非針對緊急醫療服務之需求，著手設計救護車相關之軟、硬體。故本計畫將整
合目前已存在之相關無線行動技術，將以 IPv6 為行動通訊之基礎環境，考量緊急醫療服
務之所需，救護車隨車救護人員所面臨的情況並非傳統電腦操作環境，設計、建置並測試
新一代的救護車車用資通訊平台，如圖 2 所示，整合救護車、救護中心 與醫院三方數據
通訊流程，包含：(1)患者通報、(2)EMOC 指派救護車、(3)救護車運送、(4)醫院接收即時
生理醫療資訊、(5)電子病歷交換與醫療行為準備…等基礎救護流程；另一方面，將針對(1)
救護車內醫療行為監控與輔助、(2)隨車救護人員資訊介面設計與(3)救護車內嵌入式醫療
設備設計…等部分，進行系統整合與效能提昇。
4第 2 章 、文獻探討
 IETF NEMO Basic Support Protocol (BSP)
針對一群使用者或設備以群體方式一同移動，IETF 目前制定一個 NEMO BSP 作為解決
方法，NEMO BSP 主要延伸原本 Mobile IPv6，首先一群使用者組成一個可移動式網路，此
網路具有一個以上負責對外路由管理的元件，稱為 Mobile Router (MR)，所有的使用者或
設備可以透過 MR 連接至網際網路。由於目前的提案僅保證可連接至網際網路，路徑最佳化
(Route Optimization)與 Multihoming 等兩大延伸方向並不屬於目前提案解決的範圍，但
是在現實情況中，此兩大研究方向將影響系統運作的效能，故 IETF 目前分別就此兩大議題
制定有其相關探討與分類之提案。
針對 Multihoming 議題[1]，IETF 依據可移動式網路組成 Multihoming 的方式，利用
(x,y,z)來表示其分類，其中 x代表 MR 的數目、y代表 Home Agent (HA)的數目、z代表可
移動式網路內部 IP Prefix 的數目。針對(1,*,*)分類，即可移動式網路僅具有一個 MR 的
部份，目前有四大解決方法分述如下。首先(1,1,1)部分，若必須滿足 Multihoming 之條件，
則必須允許一個 MR 有多張網路卡可同時註冊多個 Care-of-Address (CoA)於同一組 Home
Address (HoA)，針對此一分類，目前提出 Multiple CoA (MCoA) Registration 方法，透
過額外給定每一張網路卡一個獨特之 Binding Identification (BID)，透過指定不同 BID
即可辨識使用之網路卡[2]。針對(1,1,n)部分，單一 MR 可同時擁有多組(CoA, HoA) Binding，
故透過指定不同 Binding 可辨識每一條路由。針對(1,n,1)部分，由於 MR 可同時擁有多個
HA 作為註冊的對象，故 HA 與 HA 之間需要有同步的機制[3]。最後，針對(1,n,n)部分，MR
可同時在多個 HA 註冊不同(CoA, HoA) Binding，故一般使用多次 Tuneling 的方式來達成
Multihoming[4]。倘若可移動式網路具有多個 MR 存在，則屬於(n,*,*)分類探討的部份。
針對(n,1,*)部分，由於多個 MR 註冊於同一個 HA，故僅需要建立額外之 MR-MR Tunnel 於
可移動式網路內部，如此一來不論使用哪一個 MR-HA Tunnel 對外聯繫的主要路由，其餘
MR 皆可透過內部之 MR-MR Tunnel 分享其對外連線[5]。反觀(n,n,*)部分，由於多個 MR 可
能註冊於不同之 HA，除了 MR-MR Tunnel 以外，還必須建立額外之 HA-HA Tunnel，作完備
Multihoming 之需求[6]。
6以透過 IS，自動取得相關設定與資源，以利換手過程的執行。
 Emergency Medical Service (EMS)
針對緊急救護服務(EMS)，已有不少研究整合無線網路技術，IST Project 提出
『xMOTION： Tele-Ambulance』應用服務[9]，救護車內各種感測器將形成 Body Area
Network (BAN)負責收集病患即時生命現象，即時透過 2.5G 網路傳送生命跡象指數、影像
或視訊資料至醫院。隨著 3G 網路普及與廣泛應用，新一代『Mobile Emergency Healthcare
Information System (MEHIS)』[10]，改用 3G 網路作為救護車與醫院間資料交換之管道。
感測器形成 BAN 亦使用多種無線技術，如：藍芽(Bluetooth)[11]或 Zigbee[12]。隨著救
護車具有即時傳輸之能力，愈來愈多元化之相關資料需要雙向傳遞於救護車與醫院之間，
受限於無線網路頻寬限制，故部分研究提出各種資料必須依照其優先權先、後傳遞[13]，
同時，考量資料的安全性，導入虛擬私人網路(Virtual Private Network，VPN)服務[14]。
8整合 NEMO 與 SIP-NEMO 的實作方式將透過 IEEE 802.21 MIHF，MIHF 原本設計即提供
上層行動管理協定統一控制底層網路卡的方法，在本計畫中可使用之行動管理協定有 NEMO
與 SIP-NEMO 兩種。故當上層傳遞的資料為一般醫療資訊，則採用 NEMO 協定作為傳輸協定，
換言之，透過 MIHF 選擇之網路介面必須建立與 HA 之間的 Tunnel 以傳送資料至救護中心或
醫院；當上曾傳遞的資料為多媒體形式時，則改採用 SIP-NEMO 協定作為傳輸協定，換言之，
透過 MIHF 選擇之網路介面將中斷與 HA 之間的 Tunnel，利用 SIP 建立與遠端救護中心或醫
院之連線，以達成路徑最佳化之目的。不論是哪一種情形，一旦底層網路卡狀態改變，MIHF
將依據之前建立傳輸管道的協定分別進行促發相對應之換手過程。
Phase 3：Simplified User Interface for Medical Information Delivery
由於隨車救護人員掌握急救的第一關卡，考量救護人員於急救過程之時間緊迫，救護
人員沒有時間如同平時一樣按部就班使用資訊系統，因此，現行功能繁瑣、畫面複雜、資
料詳盡的人機介面並不適合應用於救護車內，故本計畫配合執行單位-高雄醫學大學之附設
醫院，透過與醫療人員訪談，初步取得訪談結果，救護車內使用介面應簡化成三步驟以內，
同時，將拋開以往使用鍵盤、滑鼠等輸入設備控制資訊系統，採納觸控式面板作為操作的
主要輸入裝置，搭配相關感應設備，如：讀卡機或 RFID 感測技術，以達成直覺化與簡單化
之使用介面。
Phase 4：Integration with Backend Medical Information System
醫院後端病歷資料太過繁雜，在緊急救護時，救護人員僅需部分病歷資料，為了方便
救護人員可以快速並且清楚明瞭所須之病歷資料，必須從後端醫療資訊系統中篩選出必要
欄位資料。本計畫透過執行單位-高雄醫學大學之附設醫院，透過訪談與討論，決定以下救
護參考值，包含：過敏史、現行持續醫療行為(如：洗腎)、特殊病史(如：AIDS)。此外，
救護人員於救護過程中，必須記錄救護情況以提供後續送至目的醫院醫師救護參考，透過
訪談與討論，決定救護車須提供以下生理資訊，包含：昏迷指數(包含：AVPU 或 EVM 兩種)、
脈搏、心跳、血壓、體溫及受傷部位等，除了部分須靠人工判別，其餘可由感應器直接匯
入系統，並透過設計之傳輸管道直接傳送至目的醫院。
10
Figure 3、The proposed Architecture.
One point to note is that the proposed MIH-based multihoming in SIP-NEMO can keep
route optimized even if the egress path is changed during the session. As depicted in Figure 3,
since the SIP-NMS re-registers its contact address (3::1) to the URI of the newly-selected
interface (NMS@2::1), a CN is redirected from SIP-HS 1 to SIP-HS 2 and then gets the current
contact address of the newly-selected interface (4::1). Thus, the CN can directly deliver its
INVITE request to the SIP-NMS via the newly-selected interface. Once the session is established
and the SIP-NMS changes its point of attachment, the SIP-NMS would actively inform CNs of
all ongoing sessions about the new contact address and keep route optimized.
If multiple interfaces register to the same SIP-HS or an interface is able to get several
contact addresses from the attached subnet, the proposed multihomed SIP-NEMO can add a new
field in the Binding List called Priority to indicate the priority of each interface. The SIP-NMS
can determine the priority of its egress paths based on the information provided by the MIHF.
Then, the SIP-HS redirects CNs to the contact address with the highest priority. When a session is
being established, the SIP-NMS can determine another interface for this session dynamically.
Therefore, the MIH-based SIP-NEMO solution keeps session invitation and session
establishment flexible and independent.
12
Figure 4、Dynamic Synchronization
Two main operations in the proposed multihomed SIPNEMO are (1) the dynamic
synchronization and (2) the session redirection. Figure 4 depicts the proposed dynamic
synchronization operation. The dynamic synchronization enables the information exchange
among the SIP-NMSs which carry the same mobile network. When a new SIP-NMS joins a
mobile network, the SIP-NMS must send its advertisement into the mobile network. Other
SIP-NMSs originally inside the mobile network starts to negotiate with the new SIPNMS using
the SIP SUBSCRIBE and NOTIFY methods.
Since SIP-NMS 1 would advertise itself into the mobile network, SIP-NMS 2 can also
repeat the above steps to synchronize the EL from SIP-NMS 1 using the SUBSCRIBE method. If
the information recorded in the EL is updated in any SIP-NMS, it should inform all subscribed
SIP-NMSs using the NOTIFY method. Once the dynamic synchronization is performed, a
SIP-NMS can redirect sessions to other SIP-NMSs using the SIP REFER method. Figure 5
depicts the proposed session redirection operation. The session redirection determines how to
initialize a session from the registered SIP-NMS to another newly-joined SIPNMS.
14
In this project, although each MR can connect to more than one kind of access networks,
e.g., WiMAX, Wi-Fi or 3G/3.5G, accessing the Internet via more than one access network
simultaneously is beyond the scope of this project. We assume that each MR can choose the best
access network to access the Internet.
According to NEMO BSP, Each MR has two kinds of addresses, i.e., home address (HoA)
and care-of-address (CoA). The HoA is permanent and got from the home network. When an MR
changes its point of attachment, it gets a new CoA from the located network. Then, the MR must
send a binding update (BU) message to its corresponding home agent (HA) for making the (HoA,
CoA) pair saved in the HA correct. After binding update, the MR can establish a bi-directional
tunnel between itself and its HA. All data from or to the carried mobile network should pass
through the tunnel.
Regarding the characteristics of NEMO BSP, the critical point is how to select the suitable
HA because all traffic must pass through the tunnel between the MR and the corresponding HA.
However, the medically relevant information in EMS is dispersed in different organizations.
Therefore, we are motivated to redefine and to utilize Inter Home Agent Protocol (HAHA) in
order to support two HAs in the proposed EMS, i.e., one HA is configured in the emergency call
center and the other one is in the targeted hospital.
In the original HAHA design, the BU message would be routed to the topologically closest
HA. If the topologically closest HA is not the original primary HA, i.e., HA 1, the closest HA
denoted by HA 2 should informs HA 1 by forwarding the BU message over the HAHA link. Next,
HA 1 should inform the MR to perform the HA switch procedure, i.e., let the MR register to HA 2
as the primary HA. This paper re-defines the trigger condition of HAHA. In other words, an MR
inside an ambulance is triggered to perform the HA switch procedure once the ambulance starts
to provide care to patients. Figure 7 depicts the HA switch procedure.
16
及病患血壓、脈搏等必要生理數據，其中生理數據可從各項醫療儀器直接讀取，故救護人
員實際上僅需判定病患意識分數，並選擇開始傳送。畫面的下半部過敏及病史，即透過設
計之溝通管道查詢出來的結果，作為緊急醫療處理輔助之用。最後，圖 14 為傳送至目的醫
院之資料，包含：救護車內病患之即時生理情況，以及從後端醫療資訊系統篩選出來之簡
易病歷資料。
圖 8、區域內救護車出勤情況。
圖 9、登入事故地點與相關資訊。
18
圖 13、病患生理情況畫面。
圖 14、目的醫院接收之病歷與生理情況。
20
Aalborg, Danmark, May 2009, pp. 73–76.
[12] W. Walker, A. Aroul, and D. Bhatia, “Mobile Health Monitoring Systems,” in Proceedings 
of the 31st Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and
Biology Society (EMBS), Minnesota, USA, Sep. 2009, pp. 5199–5202.
[13] Zvikhachevskaya, G. Markarian, and L. Mihaylova, “Quality of Service Consideration for 
the Wireless Telemedicine and E-health Services,” in Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE 
conference on Wireless Communications & Networking Conference (WCNC), Budapest,
Hungary, Apr. 2009, pp. 3064–3069.
[14] M. Protogerakis, A. Gramatke, and K. Henning, “A System Architecture for a Telematic 
Support System in Emergency Medical Services,” in Proceedings of the 3rd International 
Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedical Engineering (ICBBE), Beijing, China, Jun.
2009, pp. 1–4.
[15] Schooley, T. Horan, M. Marich, B. Hilton, and A. Noamani, “Integrated Patient Health 
Information Systes to Improve Trafic Crash Emergency Response and Treatment,” in 
Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (HICSS),
Washington, DC, USA, Jan. 2009, pp. 1–10.
[16] H.-H. Rau, “Establishing an Emergency Medical Service Information System on Mobile 
Devices - A Case Study of EMT in Eastern Area of Taiwan,” Master’s thesis, Tzu Chi
University, Hualien, Taiwan, 2006.
[17] C.-M. Huang, C.-H. Lee, and P.-H. Tseng, "Multihomed SIP-based Network Mobility using
IEEE 802.21 Media Independent Handover", Accepted by Proceedings of IEEE
International Conference on Communications (ICC), Jun. 2009.
[18] C.-M. Huang, C.-H. Lee, and P.-H. Tseng, "Multiple Router Management for SIP-based
Network Mobility", Accepted by Proceedings of IEEE Symposium on Computers and
Communications (ISCC), Jul. 2009.
[19] C-H Lee and Yuan-Tse Yu, "Integrating NEMO-based Automotive Telematics into
Emergency Medical Service", Proceedings of the mHealth Workshop (colocated with IEEE
Healthcom 2010), Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 19-23, Jul. 2010.
[20] C-H Lee and Yuan-Tse Yu, "NEMO-based Emergency Medical Service with Multiple
Home Agents Support", Proceedings of INFORMS Service Science Conference (SSC), pp.
344-349, Jul. 2010.
- 2 - 
 
本次會議有安排三場 Keynote Speech，三場敝人都親自全程聆聽。首先為『Genesis of 
Telemedicine in Europe』，由 Prof. Louis Lareng 主講，Prof. Louis Lareng 為 EUROPEAN SOCIETY 
OF TELEMEDICINE (SET)之 Director，同時為 French Medical Units for Emergency “Samu＂創始
人，演講內容主要介紹 e-Health 的發展歷史，包含：Samu 的發展過程，除此之外，Prof. Louis Lareng
從政策與實際運作切入說明目前歐洲發展之現況。第二場為『Supporting Research and Deployment: 
EU initiatives in eHealth』，由 Dr. Loukianos Gatzoulis 主講，Dr. Loukianos Gatzoulis 目前
為在 ICT for Health Unit of the European Comission, DG Information Society and Media 擔任
Scientific Officer，主要工作負責協調 Personal Health Systems 相關研究計畫之進行，演講內容
主要介紹以 Personal Health Systems 簡介為主，由於其負責業務之便，順便說明目前歐洲相關單位
發展情況與相關計畫申請與補助內容。最後一場為『Body Area Network: Normalization Efforts』，
由 Dr. Jean Schwoerer，Dr. Jean Schwoerer 目前為 France Telecom R&D Orange Labs 研發工程師
與專案主管，故其工作內容參與短距(short range)低功率(low power)無線技術標準制定，演講內容
主要介紹 Body Area Network(BAN)之無線技術特點，並且分析、比較目前現有 bluetooth 與 zigbee
規格差異，最後說明目前 BAN 專屬之無線標準與規格制定進度。聆聽完三場內容紮實的演講，讓敝人
針對 Telemedicine 與 Body Area Network 兩大研究方向迅速獲得該領域當前研究之潮流與議題，對
於敝人未來的主要研究獲益良多。 
 
三、建議 
 此國際會議(IEEE Healthcom＇10)固定於歐、亞洲國家輪流舉辦，如本次會議選定法國里昂，
2007 年亦曾於台灣舉辦。本次舉辦的場地為 The University Claude Bernard Lyon 1，此
學校為法國最大之大學之一，學校主要以科學與醫學相關領域著稱，配合里昂為法國古城之
一，故國內在舉辦國際會議時，除了挑選台灣特色之地點，吸引各國學者前往參加，其次，
台灣各區域皆有頂尖大學，故可趁機行銷、推廣台灣頂尖大學之軟、硬體，提昇國際曝光度，
進而吸引外國學生前來就讀。 
 此國際會議(IEEE Healthcom＇10)接受之論文分成口頭(Oral)報告與海報(Poster)報告兩種，
但不同於其他會議，本次會議特地挪出時間設立 Flash Poster Session，讓海報報告的作者
享有三分鐘進行口頭報告，讓與會學者可快速得知本次會議接受之論文，若與會學者有興趣，
可至海報攤位前繼續討論研究細節，加強作者們與專家學者之間的對談。 
 此國際會議(IEEE Healthcom＇10)舉辦同時，偕同『International Mobile Health (mHealth) 
Workshop』與『International Workshop on AAL Service Platforms (WASP)』一起舉辦。
國內若已有舉辦多年且投稿率高之國際或國內會議，可參考此形式，吸引各國學者注意，提
昇會議投稿的意願。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 『International Mobile Health (mHealth) Workshop, 2010』之紙本論文集 1本。 
 『IEEE International Conference on E-Health Networking, Applications and Services 
(IEEE Healthcom＇10)』之論文集光碟 1片。 
 
Journal ofeHealth Technology and Application Vol. 8, No.1 C. Lee, et al. 
organizations. 
This paper is organized as follows. Section II 
introduces related works. Section III describes the 
current EMS operation in Taiwan and discusses the key 
issues. Section IV proposes our system prototype based 
NEMO and HAHA. Finally, Section V concludes and 
summaries this paper. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
Since ambulances play the key role of EMS, a lot of 
works have integrated automotive telematics into EMS. 
Common vehicular communication systems can be 
divided into (I) vehicle-to-infrastructure (V21) 
communication, (2) in-vehicle communication, and (3) 
inter-vehicle or vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communication. 
V21 communication considers data exchange between 
ambulances and other organizations located in the 
Internet, e.g., hospitals or emergency call center. No 
matter which type of access networks an ambulance 
connects, it is convergent to the all-I? architecture. In 
order to locate an ambulance, NEMO BSP is the standard 
extended from Mobile IPv6 to resolve the mobility of a 
vehicle. Regarding V21 communication, 
Zvikhachevskaya et al. considered the quality of service 
(QoS) support within telemedicine services [5]. Since 
different types of telemedicine services or biosignals 
have different requirements, the prioritizing scheme 
should be applied. However, based on their experiments, 
the average delay may increases because some 
bandwidth is preserved for emergency data. Protogerakis 
et al. proposed a telematics support system during 
transport of patients to the hospital [6]. In order to keep 
secured, the ambulance connects to the hospital via one 
virtual private network (VPN) tunnel. Besides, data can 
be divided into messaging part, i.e., messages of session 
management, and streaming part, i.e., live data. 
Messaging data are transmitted using Transmission 
Control Protocol (TCP) and streaming data are using 
Real- Time Transport Protocol (RTP). 
In-vehicle communication considers how to 
inter-connect devices inside a vehicle and keep them 
globally reachable. In the next-generation ambulance, 
biometric sensors are capable of wireless technologies to 
transmit data. Simunic et al. developed a 3-1ead 
electrocardiogram (ECG) transmission system for home 
and ambulance use (7] . The proposed system utilizes 
Bluetooth technology to deliver captured data from a 
wearable device to a desktop computer. Thus, patients 
are free to move without unnecessary wires. On the other 
hand, Walker et al. proposed a Remote Mobile 
Monitoring System (RMMS) which connects several 
sensors, e.g., pulse oximeter and temperature sensor, 
using Zigbee technology [8]. Then, the captured 
information can be delivered to a remote server via a 
cellular network. Inter-vehicle or V2V communication 
considers how to inter-connect vehicles without passing 
through the infrastructure. When the infrastructure is 
destroyed by a disaster or unable to provide good enough 
signaling, vehicular ad-hoc network (VANET) provides 
an alternative solution to let an ambulance deliver 
life-critical data to the destination. Noshadi et al. 
presented a feasibility study about how to use VANET to 
transmit bio-signals collected from patients [9]. 
o 
Emergency Call Center 
.. 
I. Call II t) ill Taiwan 
i\ational Fire A~ency 
Government Agencies 
Fig. I. EMS in Taiwan 
20 
JournalofeHealth Technologv and Application Vol.S, No.1 
Section III has explained the characteristics and the 
complexity of required medical data. In order to increase 
the interoperability, the government organizations in 
Taiwan defines the Taiwan Electronic Medical Record 
Template (TMT) format that is based on Clinical 
Document Architecture (CDA) standard [II]. In our 
proto typed system, the TMT format is adopted to 
describe all available medically relevant data. Regarding 
the characteristics of NEMO BSP, the critical point is 
how to select the suitable HA because all traffic must 
pass through the tunnel between the MR and the 
corresponding HA. However, from the analysis of the 
EMS process in Section III, the emergency call center is 
the main administrative agency at the beginning. Once 
the ambulance arrives the incident location, the targeted 
hospital becomes the main agency. Therefore, we are 
motivated to re-define and to utilize Inter Home Agent 
Protocol (HAHA) in order to support two HAs in the 
proposed EMS, i.e., one HA is configured in the 
emergency call center and the other one is in the targeted 
hospital. 
In the original HAHA design, the BU message would 
be routed to the topologically closest HA. If the 
topologically closest HA is not the original primary HA, 
i.e., HA I, the closest HA denoted by HA 2 should 
infonns HA I by forwarding the BU message over the 
HAHA link. Next, HA I should infonn the MR to 
perform the HA switch procedure, i.e., let the MR 
register to HA 2 as the primary HA. This paper 
re-defines the trigger condition of HAHA. In other words, 
an MR inside an ambulance is triggered to perform the 
HA switch procedure once the ambulance starts to 
provide care to patients. Figure 2 depicts the HA switch 
procedure. Before dispatching, each ambulance considers 
the HA in the emergency call center as primary HA. The 
detailed steps are as follows. 
I) Each ambulance registers to the emergency call 
center as its primary HA. 
2) When the emergency call center receives a call, it 
should negotiate with the caller about the basic 
infonnation. 
3) The emergency call center sends an ambulance to 
the incident location. 
4) Since the emergency call center is the primary HA, 
the ambulance can retrieve available hospital 
information via the emergency call center. 
5) Once the paramedic arrives and then provides 
necessary emergency treatment, the ambulance 
should decide one of hospitals as the targeted 
hospital. 
6) The ambulance registers to the targeted hospital as 
its primary HA. 
7) The targeted hospital forwards the binding 
registration to the original primary HA, i.e., the 
emergency call center. 
8) Once the emergency call center receives the 
forwarded registration, it informs the ambulance to 
switch the primary HA. 
9) The ambulance re-sends the binding registration to 
C. Lee, et al. 
the targeted hospital as its primary HA. 
10) The targeted hospital notifies the emergency call 
center about the finish of the HA switch process. 
II) Since the targeted hospital is the primary HA, the 
ambulance can communicate the targeted hospital 
directly without passing through the emergency call 
center. 
Since the HA switch procedure is not tightly related to 
the handoff behavior of ambulances, the original HAHA 
can not improve the difficulty of data sharing across 
organizations. By use of switching the primary HA 
actively in EMS, the routing path of data transmission 
can keep optimal before or after the HA switch 
procedure. 
y. CONCLUSION 
This paper studies the feasibility using mUltiple HAs 
for data sharing across organizations in EMS. Before 
ambulance dispatching, all ambulances register to the 
emergency call center as the primary HA. In other words, 
the emergency call center is capable of collecting 
infonnation for ambulances. Once ambulances start to 
transport patients, the proposed EMS is triggered to 
perfonn the HA switch procedure, i.e., registering to the 
targeted hospital as the primary HA. Thus, all 
infonnation would be routed to the targeted hospital 
directly directly. Since next-generation ambulances will 
be equipped with multiple access networks, the future 
work will devise a concurrent transmission algorithm to 
maximize throughput. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The research is supported by National Science Council 
of the Republic of China (Taiwan) and Kaohsiung 
Medical University (Taiwan) under the grant number 
NSC 97-2218-E-037-002-MY2 and KMU-Q098020. 
REFERENCES 
[I] H. Rashvand, Y. Salcedo. E. Sanchez, and D. Iliescu. "Ubiquitous 
Wireless Telemedicine." lET Communications. vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 
237-254. Feb. 2008. 
[2] A. T.-G Amadou. S. Aust. C. Gorg, L. Ehrichs, M. Kus. and M. B. 
Wischnewsky, "UMTS Application Trials: Teleambulance in the 1ST 
project xMOTION," in Proceedings of 1ST Mobile Submit. Aveiro. 
Portugal. Jun. 2003. 
[3] B.-y' Shih, W.-l. Lee. y.-S. Chung, A.-W. Chen. and T.-w. Lo, "The 
Research of Mobile Emergency Healthcare Information System in 
Taiwan," in Proceedings of Intemational Computer Symposium (lCS). 
Taipei, Taiwan. Dec. 2006. pp. 1345-1349. 
[4] Network Mobility (NEMO) Basic Support Protocol. IETF RFC 
3963,2005. 
[5J A. Zvikhachevskaya. G. Markarian. and L. Mihaylova. "Quality of 
Service Consideration for the Wireless Telemedicine and E-health 
Services." in Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE conference on Wireless 
Communications & Networking Conference (WCNC). Budapest. 
Hungary, Apr. 2009, pp. 3064--3069. 
[6] M. Protogerakis. A. Gramatke, and K. Henning. "A System 
Architecture for a Telematic Support System in Emergency Medical 
Services," in Proceedings of the 3rd Intemational Conference on 
Bioin!ormatics and Biomedical Engineering (ICBBE). Beijing. China. 
Jun. 2009. pp. 1-4. 
22 

無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
