2Abstract
Plasma polymerization is an effective method to directly deposit ultra-thin film
on substrates with advantageous properties such as good adhesion and
biocompatibility. In this paper, the monomers containing amine groups with various
unsaturated structures (propylamine, allylamine) were chosen to provide amine
functionalities and to promote biocompatibilities for the polymerized thin films.
The deposition rates revealed by measuring the thickness of thin films were
characterized by profilometer under various plasma conditions. FTIR and AFM
were used to study the chemical structures and morphology of the deposited thin
films. In order to examine the applicability of the deposited polymers for
biosensors, the activities of the incorporated biomolecules on deposited thin films
were analyzed. Both L-929 fibroblast cells and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells
were cultivated on the polymerized thin films. Both propylamine and allylamine
polymerized thin films showed enhanced cell viability than on glass slide
substrates.
1. Introduction
Plasma polymerization has demonstrated as a promising technique in preparing thin films for
versatile applications in the fields of anticorrosive, electrical resistors, barrier coatings,
immunosensors, and interfaces for biomaterials [1, 2]. The advantages of plasma polymerized
thin films include pin-hole free, great homogeneity, mechanical, chemical, and adhesion
properties [3]. Research works have been focused on investigating important parameters for
polymerization such as the mode of power (continuous or pulsed) and structure of precursors [4,
5].
Considering the applications of plasma polymerized thin films in biomaterials, one of the
critical requirements is the specific interaction between the thin films and biomolecules [6, 7].
Various monomers have been chosen to prepare polymer thin films in order to provide
nitrogen-containing functionalities which is believed to promote cell adhesion and proliferation
[1, 8]. However, few works have been done on investigating the biocompatibility of plasma
polymerized thin films.
In this work, in order to introduce amine-containing functionalities, saturated propylamine
and double-bond containing allylamine are deposited by plasma onto glass substrate for the
growth of CHO cells. Physical-chemical analyses demonstrate that the plasma polymerization is a
stable process to produce uniform thin films containing amine functions. The dissociation of
unsaturated structure of allylamine can be clearly observed by FTIR characterizations. The CHO
cell viability is promoted by both precursors up to 1.3 folds. The correlations of current studies
with the plasma operational parameters and the functionalities of thin films play important roles
for the applications in medical and sensor fields.
43. Results and Discussion
The plasma polymerization produced polymer thin films which grew linearly as function of
the deposition time for both propylamine and allylamine monomers (Figure 2). By applying
different applied power, it is found that higher power promoted the deposition rate significantly.
For propylamine, the deposition rates were 0.02 and 0.18 Å/s under the applied power of 20W
and 50W, respectively. For allylamine, the deposition rates were 0.22 and 0.79 Å/s under the
applied power of 20W and 50W, respectively. The noted higher deposition rate for allylamine
plasma polymer deposition was due to the transformation of unsaturated structure by high energy
plasma state to facilitate the propagation of polymerization.
(a) (b)
Figure 2. Deposition rates as function of the deposition time measured by profilometer
(alpha-step) for: (a) propylamine; (b) allylamine. (pressure: 100 mtorr; flow rate: 10
sccm)
The plasma polymerization showed great ability of depositing polymer thin films linearly. Both
propylamine and allylamine monomers were polymerized on the silicon wafer, with roughness of
0.082 nm, and the plasma polymerized revealed smooth and pin-hole free surface morphology as
shown by the results of AFM characterization (Figure 3). It is also noted that the elevated applied
power did not alter the surface roughness and proved that the plasma polymerization provided a
effective method to prepare dense layer of polymer with uniform surface morphology.
The chemical properties of deposited polymers were studied by Fourier Transform Infrared
(FTIR) spectroscopy. The results showed that, for propylamine, the thickness of the deposited
polymer was too thin to be analyzed by FITR due to the very low deposition rate under the
applied power of 5W and 10W (Figure 4). For plasma polymerized propylamine thin film, FTIR
spectra showed a wide absorption band at 3390-3360 cm-1 which is attributed to the combination
of primary amine, secondary amine and imine functions. The multiple absorption peaks between
2960-2880 and 1460-1380 cm-1 are due to the methyl group stretches of aliphatic C-H
components. The peak at 1640 cm-1 was present on the spectra of the polymer and it is associated
with C=C alkenes or from N=N imine stretches. It is noted that, for propylamine deposited under
6Table 1. Characteristic peaks of plasma polymerized propylamine and allylamine analyzed by
FTIR
Wavenumber
(cm-1) Assignment Comments
3350 Asymmetric NHx stretching
amines, imines, amides3270 Symmetric NHx stretching
3200 Assymetric NHx deformation vibration
2929 Assymetric CHx stretching various structures CH3, CH2, CH
2855 Symmetric CHx stretching
2240 N(-R-C≡N), stretching of R-C≡C-R nonconjugated triple-bond structures
2182-2100 N(>C=C=O), (-N=C=N-) stretching, conjugated nitriles
N(-R-C≡N), (R-C≡C-R) stretching and various unsaturated structures
1630 NHx deformation vibration, and stretching
of C=C, C=N, and C=O
amines, amides, carboxyls
The chemical composition of the plasma polymerized propylamine and allylamine was
examined by ESCA. The wide-scan spectra (Table 2, Figure 5) exhibited three main peaks
corresponding to carbon (C1s at 284.6 eV), nitrogen (N1s at 398 eV), and oxygen (O1s at 533
eV). The existence of oxygen was due to oxidation reaction during the plasma polymerization
caused by atmospheric exposure. The ESCA result showed that more than 15% of nitrogen was
successfully incorporated. It is worthy to note that the polymerization of allylamine incorporated
higher nitrogen content (16.4 %) with 0.22 N/C ratio than 15.6 % and 15.0 % for polymerization
of propylamine.
Table 2. The chemical composition of plasma polymerized C3 amines analyzed by ESCA wide
scan
Monomer Covalent bonds C (%) O (%) N (%) N/C (%)
Propylamine 1 78.7 5.7 15.6 19.82
Allylamine 2 74.7 8.9 16.4 21.95
To investigate the chemical bonding responsible to the formation of amine-containing
surfaces, the high resolution C1s spectra and the deconvolution were analyzed (Figure 6, Table 5).
The high resolution spectra of the plasma polymers were normalized to 284.6 eV (CI for C-C
binding) as the main carbonaceous backbone structure, while nitrogen-containing bonds were
deconvoluted to be CII (C-N, at 285.5 eV), CIII (C=N; C=O; and C-CN, at 286.1 eV) and CIV
8290 288 286 284 282 280
proparylamine
allylamine
C
I
C
IICIII
In
te
ns
ity
(a
.u
)
Binding energy (eV)
C
IV
propylamine
Figure 6. ESCA high-resolution C1s spectra of C3 amines plasma polymers
The biocompatibility of amine-containing surfaces to promote cell was assessed by directly
culturing L-929 fibroblast cells at 37 °C for 24 h (Figure 7) was observed that the cells
demonstrated limited adhesion and elongations, where the cells density was counted to be ~22000
cells/cm2, closely to initial cell amount (20000 cells/mL, for 1 cm2 surface), where the shape of
the cells are mostly spherical. On the propylamine plasma deposited surface (Figure 7b), L-929
cells grown rapidly, with about 150% higher than that on glass surface.
(a) (b) (c)
Figure 7. Cell morphology after 24h, Amine-containing functionalities promote cell spreading
and growth; (a) glass; (b) propylamine; (c) allylamine.
Nonetheless, the cells cultivated on allylamine plasma polymer evidenced even more
intensive elongation. Under the influence of allylamine plasma polymer (Figure 7c), the
fibroblast cells elongated not just into two, but three directions which is rarely observed on
行政院國家科學委員會計畫執行人 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                  2010 年 04 月 29 日 
計畫編號 97-2221-E-011-011-MY2 
計畫名稱 研究連續式與脈衝式電漿聚合有機薄膜之性質與反應機制並探討於生物感測器之應用 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 國立台灣科技大學化學工程系 王孟菊 助理教授 
會議時間地點 2010 年 4 月 19-24 日，美國西雅圖 
會議名稱 
2010 Annual Meeting of the Society for Biomaterials  
2010 年生醫材料學會年會 
發表論文題目 
1. Dave Mangindaan, Shu-Ling Wang , Meng-Jiy Wang*, “Novel 
Controllable-Wettability Gradients on Polypropylene Surfaces 
for Cell Screening”; 
2. Chia-Wen Chang, Wei-Hsuan Kuo, Meng-Jiy Wang*, Wei-Bor 
Tsai*, “Blood Compatibility of Poly(ethylene 
glycol)-methacrylate /Acrylic acid Copolymer Coated 
Surfaces”; 
3. Wei-Hsuan Kuo, Meng-Jiy Wang, Wei-Bor Tsai*, Chiapyng 
Lee*, “Blood compatibility on poly (acrylic acid- sulfobetaine 
methacrylate) polyelectrolyte multilayers modified surface”. 
 
參加會議經過： 
This year, thank to the support from NSC, Taiwan, I selected the “2010 Annual 
Meeting of the Society for Biomaterials” meeting to present the recent results from 
my research group. The meeting was hold at Seattle, USA, from April 21-24, 2010. 
The main topic of this year is: “For Biomaterials, Where Materials Meet Biology” 
which is the main spirit of people who works on biomaterials from either material 
society or biology society. The idea is to bridge these two fields and create the 
solution for novel biomaterials and for better welfare of human being.  
The SFB meeting is one of the most important meetings for the international 
communities for Biomaterials. The SFB meeting has been hold every year since more 
Chemical Engineering and Biomaterials 
 
In terms of participation of the conference, my student and me, we started to join 
the opening ceremony from the first day until the very last presentation on the final 
schedule of the conference. It was fruitful and we have learnt the knowledge from at 
least the following fields: 
1. synthesis of new materials 
2. incorporation of different materials 
3. pay attention to the interaction at molecular level 
4. nano-particle 
5. drug-delivery 
6. carriers, degradable materials 
7. biosensors 
8. porous scaffolds 
 
The panel meetings are quite impressive, especially the talk from Professor Allan 
Hoffman and Professor D. L. Cooper. Their talks are not only educational but also 
inspiring us to think the future direction about research as well as the real applications 
into the healthcare. One very special session of this year is the “Rapid Fire Sessions”. 
By shortening the presentation time to only 5 minutes, and provide also poster for 
these works, it allows the audience to catch some ideas more rapidly and encourage 
the discussions during poster sessions due to the short presentation to public. I 
personally found this is a good way to stimulate the communication between 
participants of the conference. 
 
Beside participating the meeting which is hold at Seattle this year, we have also 
visited the well-known research center of bioengineering: University of Washington. 
We started by join the introduction seminar from Professor Jiang, in the past few years, 
the group of Prof Chiang was doing pioneer research on designing anti-fouling 
surfaces and have applied to biomaterials and navel industries. We have also 
anticipated the presentation from Professor Pat Stayton who focused on drug-delivery 
research by applying RNA. Finally, we have joined the seminar session of Department 
of Chemical Engineering at U of W. The seminar was given by Professor Xinqiao 
Jia  from the Delaware University. 
 
The first time participation of SFB meeting has been wonderful: my student and 
me have met many researchers, with many conversations and questions, series of 
presentation and numerous posters, we have definitely learnt more than we could have 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
執行本計畫兩年期間，共發表國際論文十一篇，其中六篇為計畫主持人執行之
計畫以及研究結果之產出，另外五篇則為與國內外研究單位之合作成果。計畫
執行期間，由計畫支持參加國際會議兩次，發表六篇論文；並且共兩次應邀至
國外演講；共計培育六名碩士畢業生以及有一名博士生即將畢業。其中，應國
際期刊邀請審稿兩次；國科會計畫審查四次；舉辦兩次國際研討會；同時，本
計畫主持人在教學方面也獲得學校教學優良獎之榮譽。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
