  
中文摘要 
 
本計畫之目的為發展一套可在不同視角與不同光照條件下快速辨識立體物件的視覺系統。
研究先回顧近年發展迅速的不變特徵偵測器與描述子，整理不同的不變特徵適用辨識的物
件特性，找出對光照和視角變化較具抵抗力的特徵，並將其應用在實際立體物件--骰子辨識。
骰子辨識將是一型娛樂用機器人的關鍵技術。主要步驟包括骰身與背景脫離，骰面切割，
共平面確認，骰點偵測和辨識。實驗證明某些不變特徵可有效進行前背景脫離，切割不同
面向的骰面，確認共平面，有助於建立不同視角的轉換式，適用於不同視角的特徵匹配。
並且這些不變特徵可容忍較大的光源變化，有助於不同光照條件下的物件辨識。本研究亦
將不變特徵應用於建立立體空間模型與車牌中的字元切割，均得到肯定的結果。本計畫之
實際成果包括書藉專章一份、國際研討會論文三篇、國內研討會論文二篇、申請中專利一
份、審核中期刊論文一篇。 
 
 
英文摘要 
 
The objective of this research is to develop a monocular vision system for fast 3D object 
recognition which must be robust to illumination and viewpoint variation. Invariant 
feature detectors and descriptors are studied for their potentials in the development. An 
extensive review is completed that summarizes the findings and comments reported by 
many researchers who made substantial contributions to the study on invariant features 
and interest regions in the last decade. Guided by this review, several invariant features 
are exploited and experimented in an automatic dice reading system which involves the 
segmentation of 3D objects, the dice, and recognition of the dots on the dice. This dice 
recognition system will be the core part of an entertainment robot. It is experimentally 
confirmed that some invariant features are better than others in rendering consistent 
matches across viewpoints and illumination conditions, leading to a fast and robust dice 
recognition solution. Invariant features are also applied in character segmentation and 
3D scene modeling, both yielding satisfactory performance. This research leads to five 
conference papers, one book chapter, one patent application, and one under-reviewed 
journal paper.   
 
 
 
關鍵詞: Invariant feature, covariant feature, interest region, local descriptor, stereo 
vision, object recognition.  
 
3、(Best paper award) Invariant Features for Dice Recognition Across Illumination, Proc. 
2nd IEEE Int’l Conf Multimedia Technology (ICMT), 3112~3115, Hangzhou, China, July 
2011. 
4、License Plate Recognition for Categorized Applications, Proc. IEEE Conf Vehicular 
Electronics and Safety (ICVES), 220~225, Beijing, China, July 2011.  
上列部份內容亦發表於國內研討會 CVGIP 2011 與 Automation 2011.  
 
第一篇論文摘要(因是書藉專章，故內容較豐富) 
 Many methods on local descriptors consider each image from stereo or multiple 
views a single instance without exploring much of the relationship between these 
instances, ending up with models of multiple independent instances. Using such a 
model for object recognition is like matching between a training image and a test image. 
It is, however, especially interested in this chapter that models are developed integrating 
the information across multiple training images. The central concern is how to extract 
local features from stereo or multiple images so that the information from different 
views can be integrated in the modeling phase, and applied in the recognition phase. 
This chapter is composed of the following contents: a few promising affine invariant 
region detectors are first reviewed in Section 2. Many invariant feature detectors are 
proposed in the last decade. Because the detected features are invariant to variations in 
viewpoint, scale, illumination, and other variables, they serve well for establishing 
correspondences across images. Section 3 reviews a couple local region descriptors 
which outperform many others in a performance comparison study. These descriptors 
transform affine invariant regions into vectors or distributions so that some distance 
measure can be applied to discern the similarity or difference between interest regions. 
Those with better invariance to viewpoint changes are especially interested. Section 4 
reviews a couple methods that develop models by combining the information from local 
descriptors extracted across multiple views. These methods offer good examples on how 
to integrate local invariant features across different views. A case study on performance 
evaluation and benchmark databases is presented in Section 5, with an introduction to 
its database, followed by a snapshot on other databases also good for 3D object 
recognition study in Section 6.   
 
第二篇論文摘要 
 A system is proposed for the recognition of the number of the dots on dice in general 
table game settings. Different from previous dice recognition systems which use a single 
top-view camera and work only under controlled illumination, the proposed one uses 
multiple cameras and works for uncontrolled illumination. The proposed system 
exploits the local invariant features robust to illumination variation and good for 
building homographies across multi-views. The homographies are used to enhance 
coplanar features and weaken non-coplanar features, giving a way to segment the top 
faces of the dice and make up the features ruined by possible specular reflection. To 
recognize the number of dots on dice, MSER (Maximally Stable Extreme Region) 
detectors are applied for dice localization and dots identification, followed by certain 
compared with a few competitive ones to highlight its value as a benchmark.   
 
文獻探討(節錄於上述論文以完整呈現已執行之相關文獻探討) 
 As object recognition being the central concern of this research, the literature survey mostly 
covers the works on invariant features, interest region detection, and local descriptors, especially 
those with robustness against variation in illumination and viewpoint.   
Harris and Hessian affine detector:  
 Harris-Affine region detector exploits a combination of Harris corner detector, Gaussian 
scale-space and affine shape adaptation (Mikolajczyk, 2005). Given an image, the algorithm 
for detecting Harris-Affine regions consists of the following steps: (1) Detection of 
scale-invariant interest regions using Harris-Laplace detector and characteristic scale 
selection; (2) Normalization of the scale-invariant interest regions using affine shape 
adaptation; (3) Iterative estimation of the affine region; (4) Affine region update on scale and 
localization. In addition to the Harris-Affine region based on the Harris-Laplace detector, a 
similar alternative is Hessian-Affine region detector based on the Hessian matrix. Both are 
effective for detecting blobs and ridges, but the latter performs better in detecting long blobs.   
Maximally Stable Extremal Region (MSER):  
 MSER considers the set of all possible thresholds able to binarize an intensity image, and 
an MSER is a connected region with little change in its size for a range of thresholds (Matas 
et. al, 2002). Because it is defined exclusively by the intensity function in the region and the 
outer border, and the local binarization is stable over a large range of thresholds, it possesses 
many favored characteristics, such as robustness to changes in viewpoint, illumination, scale 
and even occlusion.  
SIFT and GLOH Descriptors:  
 Local region descriptors are mostly in vector forms that can characterize the pattern of an 
interest point with its neighboring region. Ten different descriptors were reviewed by 
Mikolajczyk (2005), and it revealed that the GLOH (Mikolajczyk, 2005) performs the best, 
closely followed by SIFT (Lowe, 2004) and shape context (Belongie et al., 2002) in generating 
more correct matches under viewpoint and scale changes. These three descriptors also 
outperform others in most tests with different variables and settings. The SIFT (Scale- 
Invariant Feature Transform) descriptor, proposed by Lowe (2004), is derived from a 3D 
histogram of gradient location and orientation. GLOH is a modified version of SIFT, which 
computes a SIFT descriptor for a log-polar location grid with bins in both radial and angular 
directions. 
Shape Context Descriptor:  
 Shape context, proposed by Belongie et al., (2002), is a descriptor that characterizes the 
shape of an object. Given a shape, which can be obtained by an edge detector, one can pick a 
point on the shape and compute the histogram of the relative coordinates of the remaining 
points. This design makes the descriptor more sensitive to the locations of nearby shape 
points than to those farther apart. Belongie use 5 bins for radial and 12 bins for angluar, 
giving a descriptor of dimension 60; while Mikolajczyk split radial into 9 bins and angular 
into 4 bins, resulting in a descriptor of dimension 36. 
計畫成果自評： 
 
 若以下表為成果自評標準:  
 
等級 特優 優 佳 可 欠佳 
評判標準 
完成原計畫
大部份規劃
工作，作品得
到國際(如知
名期刊、專利
等)之肯定，
或引發廣泛
產業關注。 
 
完成原計畫
大部份規劃
工作，作品得
到廣泛的肯
定，如領域內
國際頂尖研
討會或相關
專利等。 
完成原計畫
大部份規劃
工作，作品得
到 些 許 肯
定，如領域內
一般研討會
等。 
完成原計畫
大部份規劃
工作，但作品
尚未得到其
它單位肯定。 
未完成原計
畫大部份規
劃工作。 
 
 本計畫成果包括書藉專章一份、國際研討會論文三篇、國內研討會論文二篇、申請中專
利一份、審核中期刊論文一篇。其中書藉專章 Stereo Correspondence with Local Descriptors for 
Object Recognition 的網路版本自元月出版以來，已被下載 117 次(可由下列網址取得資料) 
http://www.intechopen.com/articles/show/title/stereo-correspondence-with-local-descri
ptors-for-object-recognition。國際研討會中，CAIP 為影像處理模式識別領域重要研討會
之一；ICVES 為智慧車輛研究領域重要研討會之一；雖 ICMT 為較新的多媒體技術領域的
研討會，但參加者眾，本篇論文在 120 餘篇接受的論文中，入選 Best Paper Awards (共 16
篇獲獎)。再考慮申請中專利一份、審核中期刊論文一篇和國內研討會論文二篇，故成果自
評為優等。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
Gee-Sern Hsu 
 
I joined the CAIP 2011 held in Seville, Spain on Aug 29~31, and presented the paper Dice 
Recognition in Uncontrolled Illumination Conditions by Local Invariant Features. According to the 
conference ranking referred in http://www.cs.ucla.edu/~eklee/paper/CS_conf_rank.htm and a 
few other websites, CAIP is considered a fine conference in the area of computer vision. It is 
given 0.84 on a unity scale, compared with ICCV (0.96) and ICIP (0.71), in http://perso.crans.org/ 
~genest/conf.html.  
 
Quite a few attendees were interested to know more details about how we determine matches 
across different views as features from different dice revealed the same characteristics. Some 
were impressed by the extraction of features across dice, on top of the features within each die, 
using invariant features. Many considered our work an interesting application of invariant 
features to the entertainment and game technology sector. I joined several talks with topics on 
face recognition, object recognition, kernel methods and stereo vision. Among those I kept in 
contact with, the work by Herrera, a Ph.D. student from the University of Oulu, is closely related 
to the continuing phase of this research. He proposes a simplified method to calibrate Kinect, the 
depth and color camera pair. We talked about possible collaboration in the near future, and he 
offers me the package he developed and introduced in the conference. Since the second phase of 
this research will exploit the depth and color cameras in establishing 3D perception, which has 
been in progress for now, Herrera’s toolbox will be studied and compared with other tools that 
are available on the web. We expect this interaction to be able to initiate some collaboration 
research opportunities good for both parties.  
 
I also joined the ICMT held in Hangzhou, China on July 26~28, and presented the paper 
Invariant Features for Dice Recognition Across Illumination. ICMT is a new conference on 
multimedia related areas, and this is the second time after its first commencement in 2010. 
Although a new one, it seemed to have attendees no less than other major conferences, and a 
few keynotes offered by senior researchers, such as E. Hancock, D. Terzopoulos and others. I 
went to a few talks with topics of my interests, and the keynote by Hancock on “facial shape, 
texture and reflectance from a single view”. Actually we met again in CAIP, and kept in contact 
from then as he is also working on face related vision research. Our paper was awarded as one 
of the 16 Best Paper Awards out of the 120 accepted papers from more than 300 submissions. 
Many were impressed by the live demo system that we showed in the conference, which could 
precisely recognize dice in various illumination conditions.  
附件 2 
Dice Recognition in Uncontrolled Illumination
Conditions by Local Invariant Features
Gee-Sern Hsu, Hsiao-Chia Peng, Chyi-Yeu Lin, and Pendry Alexandra
Department of Mechanical Engineering,
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology
jison@mail.ntust.edu.tw
Abstract. A system is proposed for the recognition of the number of
the dots on dice in general table game settings. Diﬀerent from previ-
ous dice recognition systems which use a single top-view camera and
work only under controlled illumination, the proposed one uses multi-
ple cameras and works for uncontrolled illumination. Under controlled
illumination edges are the prominent features considered by most ap-
proaches. But strong specular reﬂection, often observed in uncontrolled
illumination, paralyzes the approaches solely based on edges. The pro-
posed system exploits the local invariant features robust to illumination
variation and good for building homographies across multi-views. The
homographies are used to enhance coplanar features and weaken non-
coplanar features, giving a way to segment the top faces of the dice and
make up the features ruined by possible specular reﬂection. To identify
the dots on the segmented top faces, an MSER detector is applied for its
consistency rendering local interest regions across large illumination vari-
ation. Experiments show that the proposed system can achieve a superb
recognition rate in various uncontrolled illumination conditions.
Keywords: Object recognition, invariant feature, local descriptor.
1 Introduction
Dice is a popular table game in casinos, especially in Asia. As automatic or
computer-controlled games are emerging and becoming popular, many are inter-
ested in the technologies able to assist or replace human bankers. A computer
vision system is proposed in this paper for dice recognition, which refers to the
automatic recognition of the numbers of dots on dice, in normal table game
settings. Diﬀerent from existing dice recognition systems, for example [4] and
[5], which work under controlled illumination, the proposed system can work
in uncontrolled illumination conditions. In controlled illumination edges are the
prominent features considered. But specular reﬂection, often observed in uncon-
trolled illumination, paralyzes the approaches solely based on edges. Fig. 1 shows
an image in the middle with strong specular reﬂection, on the left is its edge map
 Corresponding author.
A. Berciano et al. (Eds.): CAIP 2011, Part II, LNCS 6855, pp. 188–195, 2011.
c© Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
190 G.-S. Hsu et al.
Fig. 2. Correspondences across two diﬀerent views on the local invariant features de-
tected by a multi-scale Harris-Hessian detector. Many of the detected correspondences
are removed for better visual inspection.
feature detectors can be generally categorized into three types [11]. One detects
corner-like features, e.g., Harris-aﬃne, Harris-Laplace, and multi-scale Harris
detectors.One detects blob-like features, e.g., Hessian-aﬃne, Hessian-Laplace,
multi-scale Hessian and Diﬀerence of Gaussians (DoG) [7]. Diﬀerent from the
former two types, region detectors extract homogeneous local areas, e.g., the
MSER detector [8], which is used in this work for identifying the dots on dice,
and will be addressed in details in Sec. 3.
Due to the limitation of Harris and Hessian detectors in handling multiple
scales, both are modiﬁed with multiple scales and made scale-invariant in [1].
To determine the most appropriate scale for a local feature, Harris-Laplace and
Hessian-Laplace both search for the characteristic scale with a Laplace operator
added on top of the multi-scales. Harris-aﬃne and Hessian-aﬃne obtain the aﬃne
invariant corners or blobs by an iterative estimation of elliptical aﬃne regions
proposed by Lindeberg et al. [6]. The shape of the feature region is adapted to
ensure that the same region is covered when extracted from a diﬀerent viewpoint.
The performance of the aforementioned 8 invariant feature detectors in render-
ing the most accurate homographies between diﬀerent viewpoints is evaluated
by a comparison to the ground truth obtained using manually selected corre-
spondences. All of the invariant regions (or interest regions) are represented in
the form of SIFT descriptor [7] as it is experimentally proven as one of the
most eﬀective descriptors among others [10]. The match of the invariant fea-
tures across views is measured by the Euclidean distance between the feature
descriptors, and a threshold on this distance measure is determined to select
correspondences. Because a dot on a die in a given view can appear quite similar
to a diﬀerent dot in another view, the scale factor in the local feature detectors
is ﬁrst chosen as that comes with the maximum number of correct correspon-
dences. RANSAC [2] is then applied to ﬁlter out outliers and determine the most
appropriate homographies across diﬀerent views with matched correspondences.
Our experiments reveal that the multi-scale Harris-Hessian detector gives the
best performance. Fig. 2 shows an example of the correspondences across two
viewpoints obtained using this detector. The settings and other details of the
performance evaluation are reported in Section 4.
192 G.-S. Hsu et al.
(a) Segmentation of
top faces
(b) Regions detected
before preprocessing
(c) Regions detected
after preprocessing
Fig. 3. The performance of MSER in the identiﬁcation of the dots
be less than the diagonal of the dice. The spatial distribution of the dots in
each cluster must be veriﬁed against the 6 known patterns. For example, 6-dot
must contain two parallel rows of dots and 3 dots each row. 5-dot must have two
crossing rows of dots, 3 dots each row and crossing each other at the same central
dot. Speciﬁc patterns are conﬁgured for 4-, 3-, and 2-dot cases. Depending on
the number of dots in a given cluster, the distribution pattern for that number
is examined ﬁrst, and if found incompatible, two possibilities would be veriﬁed.
One is a non-dot spot falsely considered as a dot and the other is a valid dot
failed to be identiﬁed as a dot. A large number of casts and experiments, with
details given in Section 4, reveal that such a combination of size-constrained
clustering and spatial pattern conﬁrmation yields a superb recognition rate.
4 Experiments
The experimental setup follows a common dice table game ”sci-bo” with three
dice, and three cameras of diﬀerent viewpoints are installed on the sides of a
game table. 12 diﬀerent illumination conditions are conﬁgured to study the per-
formance of the proposed system, 3 of them chosen as the training set and the
rest 9 as the test set, as shown in Fig. 4. The intensity on the dice from the
training set is 67, 108, and 138 in average, in 8-bit gray scale, with deviation 8,
10, and 11, respectively. The intensity on the test set is between 45 to 158 in
average with deviation from 7 to 12. 120 random cast sessions and 30 manual
placement sessions are carried out under each illumination condition. The man-
ual placement attempts to create special layouts of the dice, such as three dice
in a row and others.
4.1 Homography Based on Local Invariant Features
The training set is for the evaluation of the 8 invariant feature detectors, men-
tioned in Section 2, in creating homographies with least error across diﬀerent
illumination conditions. The error EFi is measured by the diﬀerence between
the correspondences from the invariant-feature-based homography HFi and the
ground-truth HG obtained using manually selected correspondences, i.e.,
194 G.-S. Hsu et al.
this comparison, the smallest scale with 128×96 reveals relatively high errors, in-
dicating that some details between the dice are lost in such a small scale and thus
the accuracy in the homography estimation is degraded. Among the eight invari-
ant feature detectors we tested, the multi-scale Harris-Hessian detector gives the
lowest error at 0.87%, and it is about 1.7 pixels in a 192× 144 image.
4.2 Dice Identification
The performance evaluation on the 9 test sets reveals the following observations
and results:
– As long as the correspondences from the feature-based homography are con-
sistent over at least two scales, the average match error can be kept below or
near 1%, and the top faces of dice can be perfectly segmented in all tested
conditions.
– Two identiﬁcation rates are measured in each test illumination condition,
one is the identiﬁcation of the dots and the other is the identiﬁcation of the
dot number on each die. The former is shown by the bar on the left and the
latter by the bar on the right at each indexed illumination condition in Fig.
6. Because the MSER dot detector has been adjusted to zero miss rate on
the price of additional false positives on the training set, the imperfections in
the dot identiﬁcation in Fig. 6 are all caused by false positives. For example,
in the brightest illumination condition, indexed ”1”, 1.8%(=1 − 98.2%) of
the dots identiﬁed are false positives. All false positives are found caused
by specular reﬂection or insuﬃcient lightings. As the intensity of the illu-
mination increases, specular reﬂection becomes stronger, causing more false
positives to appear.
– The combination of size-constrained clustering and spatial pattern conﬁrma-
tion can eﬀectively remove the false positives and yield superb dice recogni-
tion rates in all tested conditions, as shown by the right bar at each indexed
illumination in Fig. 6.
Fig. 6. Identiﬁcation rates in 9 illumination conditions, indexed from 1 to 9; at each
index the left bar shows the rate of dot identiﬁcation, and the right bar shows the rate
of dice number identiﬁcation
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/18
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫三：快速辨識立體物件之機器人視覺技術
計畫主持人: 徐繼聖
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-011-098- 學門領域: 自動化系統整合技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1. The paper presented at ICMT receives Best Paper Award；  
2. Collaboration with the Machine Vision Group, University of Oulu, 
Finland is being initialized. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
