 2
(artificial immune network scheme) 
[23-24]，適用於全方位輪機器人之靜態與
動態避障，除了相關理論外，並已完成程
式模擬及部份實驗驗證。 
此外，本專題計畫研製之智慧型家用服
務機器人 UHR，裝設有無線網路及網路攝
影機(Web Cam)，目前已具有無線遙控(包
括機器人行動方向、速度以及攝影機之二
軸方向控制)與人臉偵測(face detection)之
雛型，未來研究將持續朝人臉辨識(face 
identification)進行，使具有遠端監控、保
全及居家照護等實用功能。 
 
三、研究方法 
3.1 生物免疫細統 
免疫系統保護生物免於病毒、細菌等
抗原的侵害，又可區分為先天性免疫系統
(innate immune system)與適應性免疫系
統(adaptive immune system)，主要差別在
於後者具有抗原獨特性(antigen-specific)
且具有記憶抗體細胞。先天性免疫系統主
要由噬菌細胞組成，適應性免疫系統之主
角為淋巴細胞，圖一為生物免疫系統之示
意圖。 
 
圖一 生物免疫系統示意圖 
 當病原體入侵人體時，先天性免疫系
統擔任第一道防線，又稱為非專一性免疫
反應，其中最重要的角色為噬菌細胞
(phagocyte)，它能包覆並消滅入侵人體的
病原，之後將抗原進一步分解為抗原縮氨
酸碎片並呈現於表面，成為抗原呈現細胞
(Antigen Presenting Cell, APC)，輔助型 T
細胞的受器(receptor)能專一性地辨識呈現
在 APC 表面的抗原縮氨酸，經由辨識與結
合過程，T 細胞被活化而進行細胞分裂，
並分泌細胞激素 (cytokines)與淋巴激素
(lymphokines)等化學訊息，刺激 B 細胞分
泌抗體的漿細胞(plasma cell)，最後，漿細
胞生產大量抗體(antibody)以消滅抗原，此
即為免疫反應的步驟。 
 噬菌細胞具有吸收與消化多種微生物
的能力，並能將抗原呈現給淋巴細胞，淋
巴細胞則具有辨認與消滅抗原的能力，吞
噬細胞與淋巴細胞最大的免疫差別在於，
後者有區分「自己」與「異己」(self and 
non-self)抗原的能力，因此它對抗原的識
別與反應是專一性的。吞噬細胞最重要的
功能在於呈獻抗原訊息給 B 細胞與 T 細
胞，共同參與專一性免疫反應。淋巴細胞
具有識別、殺滅、消除「異己」抗原的能
力，對抗原的反應是有針對性的，故淋巴
細胞免疫稱稱為專一性免疫。生物體受到
抗原刺激後，其免疫反應分為感應、增殖
分化及效應三個階段。如圖一所示，適應
性免疫又方為體液免疫 (Cell mediated 
immunity)及細胞免疫(Humoral immunity)
兩種，體液免疫是指由抗體媒介的免疫反
應，細胞免疫主要是由 T 細胞媒介的免疫
反應。 
 B 細胞主要任務在於製造消滅抗原的
抗體，利用其表面受器(receptor)辨認特定
抗原，只要經辨認為專一性抗原，B 細胞
便開始增殖並分化成漿細胞，製造大量可
溶性受器分子(即抗體)到細胞外與抗原相
結合，進而消滅抗原。T 細胞具多種型態
與功能，大略可分成兩種類型，第一類稱
為輔助型 T 細胞(Helper T-cells)，能刺激 B 
細胞的發育與製造抗體，以及協助吞噬細
胞摧毀吞入之病原體，第二類 T 細胞稱為
毒殺性 T 細胞(Killer T- cells)，能辨認及摧
毀被病毒感染的細胞。 
 根據 Jerne[25]提出的個體型網路假說
(idiotypic network hypothesis)，抗體除了與
抗原結合外，抗體與抗體之間亦可經由個
體型決定部位與抗體結合部位相結合，藉
由彼此間刺激與抑制的交互作用形成一個
免疫網路，如圖二所示，抗原與抗體之間
的結合能力，以及抗體與抗體間的結合能
力，稱為親和性(affinity)，換言之，Jerne
 4
 
圖六  機器人設計圖 
 
圖七  機器人底部設計圖 
圖八~十為機器人UHR之實體及各部位照
片。 
 
圖八  機器人實體照片 
 
圖九 底部全方位輪機構照片 
 
 
圖十 內部照片 
 
3.4 智慧型服務機器人電控系統架構 
 圖十一為電控模組與控制電腦間之連
接配置圖，包含主控電腦、觸控螢幕、網
路攝影機、超音波感測器、直流伺服馬達
及驅動器、網卡等，分別以 RS232 及 USB
串接。圖十二為馬達控制驅動及 Base 
Stamp 基板照片。圖十三為遠端無線監控
示意圖，透過無線網路將可遠端接收網路
攝影機影像、超音波(或其他)感測器資
料，並遙控馬達轉速(即行動方向)及網路
攝影機的轉向。 
 
圖十一  電控模組與控制電腦間之連接配置圖 
 
 6
 
圖十八 機器人脫離局部陷阱避障行走照片
(150cm×90cm ㄇ字形障礙物 
 
圖十九 機器人脫離局部陷阱避障行走照片
(160cm×320cm ㄇ字形障礙物 
 
圖二十 機器人脫離局部陷阱避障行走照片
(300cm×100cm ㄇ字形障礙物 
 
160cm×160cm ㄇ字形    150cm×90cm ㄇ字形 
 
160cm×320cm ㄇ字形  300cm×100cm ㄇ字形 
圖二十一 機器人行進軌跡圖 
4.2 動態避障程式模擬 
由於尚未完成相關硬體設備(雷射測
距儀或全景式攝影機，如圖二十二照片所
示)整合，因此未能完成實驗驗證，而這也
是本專題研究未來仍需持續努力所在，因
此，目前僅有程式模擬結果[24]。 
   
圖二十二 雷射測距儀及 SONY 全景式攝影機 
 
4.3 人臉影像偵測實驗 
在人臉影像偵測實驗方面，圖二十三
所示為測試結果，其中(4)及(8)顯示當人臉
左右偏斜至雙眼無法同時顯現時，會有失
誤的結果產生，同樣的，當當人臉上下擺
動時，當眼睛與鼻子接近在同一高度上時
或臉部朝下超過 15 度時，無法將臉部正確
的辨識出來，如圖二十四(4)及(8)所示。 
 
(1)        (2)    (3)     (4) 
 
(5)        (6)    (7)     (8) 
圖二十三 臉部左右移動時臉部偵測之結果 
 
(1)        (2)    (3)     (4) 
 
(5)       (6)       (7)        (8) 
圖二十四 臉部上下移動時臉部偵測之結果 
至於人臉在鏡頭內尺寸大小的影響結
 8
4.4 無線網路監控實驗 
圖二十八為執行無線網路監控的樓層
平面圖，地點在台北市德惠街 7-1 號 8 樓，
★符號為無線基地台架設位置，機器人由
實驗室 814 室(▲)出發，往 820 實驗室方
向前進，並於 820 室前方折返後，繞經電
梯前方至 809 教室前方，折返後到 802 實
驗室前再回到 814室。其間經過佈告欄(●)
的時，控制網路攝影機之鏡頭移動，瀏覽
上方公布的教師資料。圖二十九為實際執
行之照片 (機器人及網路攝影機拍攝結
果)。 
圖二十八 無線網路監控的樓層平面圖及行進動線 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 10
and Cybernetics- Part B: Cybernetics 26 
(3) (1996) 396-407. 
[4] K.-T. Song, L.-H. Sheen, Heuristic 
fuzzy-neuro network and its application 
to reactive navigation of a mobile robot, 
Fuzzy Sets and Systems 110 (2000) 
331-340. 
[5] K. Madlhava, P.K. Kalra, Perception and 
remembrance of the environment during 
real time navigation of a mobile robot, 
Robotics and Autonomous Systems 37 
(2001) 25-51. 
[6] J. Barraquand, J.C. Latombe, A 
Monte-Carlo algorithm for path planning 
with many degrees of freedom, in: 
Proceedings of the IEEE International 
Conference on Robotics and Automation, 
Cincinnati, OH, 1990, 1712-1717. 
[7] H. Chang, A new technique to handle 
local minima for imperfect potential 
field based motion planning, in: 
Proceedings of the IEEE International 
Conference on Robotics and Automation, 
Minneapolis, MN, 1996, 108-112. 
[8] S. Lee, T.M. Adams, B.-Y. Ryoo, A fuzzy 
navigation system for mobile 
construction robots, Automation in 
Construction, 6 (1997) 97-107. 
[9] J. Borenstein, Y. Koren, Real-time 
obstacle avoidance for fast mobile robots, 
IEEE Transaction on System, Man and 
Cybernetics 9 (5) (1989) 1179-1197. 
[10] X. Yun, K.-C. Tan, A wall-following 
method for escaping local minima in 
potential field based motion planning, in: 
Proceedings of the IEEE International 
Conference on Robotics and Automation, 
Monterey, CA, 1997, 421-426. 
[11] C. Liu, H.A.Jr. Marcelo, K. Hariharan, 
S.Y. Lim, Virtual obstacle concept for 
local-minimum-recovery in 
potential-field based navigation, in: 
Proceedings of the IEEE International 
Conference on Robotics and Automation, 
San Francisco, CA, 2000, pp. 983-988. 
[12] M.G. Park, M.C. Lee, Artificial 
potential field based path planning for 
mobile robots using a virtual obstacle 
concept, in: Proceedings of the 
IEEE/ASME International Conference 
on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics, 
2003, 735-740. 
[13] W.L. Xu, A virtual target approach for 
resolving the limit cycle problem in 
navigation of a fuzzy behaviour-based 
mobile robot, Robotics and Autonomous 
Systems 30 (2000) 315-324. 
[14] W.L. Xu, S.K. Tso, Y.H. Fung, Fuzzy 
reactive control of a mobile robot 
incorporating a real/virtual target 
switching strategy, Robotics and 
Autonomous Systems 23 (1998) 
171-186. 
[15] K. Fujimura, H. Samet, A hierarchical 
strategy for path planning among 
moving obstacles, IEEE Trans on Robot 
and Automat 5 (1) (1989) 61-69. 
[16] C. Ferrari, E. Pagello, J. Ota, T. Arai, 
Multi-robot motion coordination in 
space and time, Robotics and 
autonomous systems, 25 (1998) 219-29. 
[17] S.S. Ge, Y.J. Cui, Dynamic motion 
planning for mobile robots using 
potential field method, Autonomous 
Robots, 13 (2002) 207-222. 
[18] A. Fujimori, M. Teramoto, P.N. 
Nikiforuk, M.M. Gupta, Cooperative 
collision avoidance between multiple 
mobile robots, Journal of Robotic 
Systems 17(7) (2000) 347-363. 
[19] M. Mucientes, R. Iglesias, C.V. 
Regueiro, A. Bugarín, P. Cariñena, S. 
Barro, Fuzzy Temporal Rules for Mobile 
Robot Guidance in Dynamic 
Environments, IEEE Transactions on 
Systems, Man, and Cybernetics—Part C: 
Applications and Reviews, 31 (3) (2001) 
391-398. 
[20] P. Fiorini, Z. Shiller, Motion planning 
in dynamic environments using velocity 
obstacles, International Journal of 
Robotics Research, 17(17) (1998) 
760-772. 
[21] E. Prassler, J. Scholz, P. Fiorni, A 
robotic wheelchair for crowded public 
environments, IEEE Robotics and 
Automation Magazine, 7(1) (2001) 
38-45. 
[22] Q. Zhihu, J. Wang, C.E. Plaisted, A 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-036-009 
計畫名稱 仿生控制智慧型服務機器人(I) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 大同大學機械系 陸冠群教授 
會議時間地點 自 96 年 10 月 18 日 至 95 年 7 月 19 日 韓國蔚山市 
會議名稱 2006 年策略技術國際會議 (International Forum on Strategic Technologies) 
發表論文題目 
Potential Field Based Immune Network for Dynamic Motion Planning of Mobile 
Robots 
Artificial Immune System based Deliberative and Reactive Strategies for Robot
Soccer Competition 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議是由蔚山大學、蔚山市政府及蔚山科技園區聯合籌辦，為第一屆會議，共有120篇來
自10個國家的論文發表(其中60篇以海報形式發表)，應蔚山大學曹綱鉉教授之邀稿，個人共有兩篇
論文發表，題目分為” Potential Field Based Immune Network for Dynamic Motion Planning of Mobile 
Robots”以及” Artificial Immune System based Deliberative and Reactive Strategies for Robot Soccer 
Competition”，其中第二篇論文是與吳俊瑩教授合作共同發表。第一篇論文主要內容是利用類免疫網
路理論，構建移動型機器人避障及到達指定目標的理論基礎，未來並將運作於實際的服務型智慧機
器人控制上；第二篇論文則是應用類免疫網路理論於機器足球比賽策略上，並以FIRA模擬驗證其可
行性，未來預計參加FIRA2007年的機器足球模擬比賽。相關理論未來或可運用於e-vehicle上，搭配
雷射距離及視覺感測器，可協助高速公路上的安全駕駛。 
本次會議並安排一些參觀活動，包括釜山的現代汽車廠及造船廠，其規模及所累積的資金及人
才，台灣可說是望塵莫及。此外，另外一個印象深刻的參訪是汽車零件育成中心(APIC)，一樓有開
發汽車零件所需的各項貴重軟硬體設施，二樓以上則是由汽車零件業者及學校研究人員共同進駐，
是一個落實產官學共同投入研發的例子，與育成中心的架構頗為近似。 
 
二、與會心得 
蔚山大學在現代集團的金援下，各種研究及國際化進行的如火如荼，與俄羅斯共和國
Novosibirsk State Technical University、越南大學及蒙古Mongolian University等均已建立交換學生、
提供獎學金、學術研究合作的固定機制，彼此的來訪更是絡繹不絕，因此下屆會議預定在蒙古
Mongolian University舉行。原本想藉由此次會議透過曹綱鉉教授與蔚山大學電機系洽談雙方學術及
研究合作事宜，只可惜因故未能達成，功敗垂成。 
跨領域的整體型研究計劃或國際性的合作研究都很重要，如何建構整體發展的研究環境，走出去與
不同國籍的學者合作，使不同領域的研究力量能真正整合起來，國際會議是一個絕佳的舞台，不但
可吸收新知，也可跨領域、國際合作，在現代集團大力支援下，蔚山大學電機系及相關系所以e-
vehicle為載具，研發新技術，經費極為充裕，能夠四處洽談合作，反觀學校，並無相關經費預算編
列，系上教師研究似也未朝整合或國際合作方向發展，以致對方最後未積極商談合作，前熱後冷，
 Potential Field Based Immune Network for Dynamic 
Motion Planning of Mobile Robots 
 
Guan-Chun Luh,  Wei-Wen Liu 
Departmrnt of Mechanical Engineering, Tatung University   
No. 40, Sec. 3, Chungshan Rd., Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
Abstract –This paper proposes a potential filed immune network  for dynamic navigation of mobile robots in an unknown 
environment with moving obstacles and targets. The Velocity Obstacle method is utilized to determine imminent obstacle collision of a 
robot moving in the time-varying environment. The response of the overall immune network is derived by the aid of fuzzy system. 
Simulation results are presented to verify the effectiveness of the proposed methodology in unknown environments with single and 
multiple moving obstacles. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Autonomous mobile robots have a wide range of applications 
in industries, hospitals, offices, and even the military, due to 
their superior mobility. Some of their capabilities include 
automatic driving, intelligent delivery agents, assistance to the 
disabled, exploration and map generation for environmental 
cleanup, etc. In order to adapt the robot’s behavior to any 
dynamic environment without further human intervention, it 
should be able to extract information from the environment, to 
perceive, and act within the environment. An autonomous 
robot must be able to maneuver effectively in its environment, 
achieving its goals while avoiding collisions. As a result, 
motion planning of a mobile robot plays an important role in 
robotics. 
In motion planning problems of mobile robots, motion 
behaviors of the mobile robot can be classified into two 
fundamental behaviors: obstacle-avoidance and goal-seeking. 
An important approach is the well-known potential field 
method first introduced by Khatib [1]. The basic idea is to fill 
the robot’s workspace with an artificial potential field and the 
robot moves in a direction along the resultant of a repulsive 
force from the obstacle and an attractive force towards the 
goal. This method is particularly attractive since it is 
conceptually effective and easy to implement. However, most 
of the previous studies use it to deal with mobile robot path 
planning in stationary environments where targets and 
obstacles were all stationary. In an effort to solve the problem 
of motion planning in a dynamic environment, potential field 
method may be modified. Another approach is the Velocity 
Obstacle (VO) method first proposed by Fiorini and Shiller 
[2]. The Velocity Obstacle paradigm is a well-known collision 
detection method. Moving obstacles are mapped into a two-
dimensional ''velocity space". The velocity obstacle is a first-
order approximation of the robot’s velocities that would cause 
a collision with an obstacle at some future time. With this 
representation, an obstacle maneuver can be computed simply 
by selecting velocities outside of the velocity obstacle. A 
complete trajectory is constructed by the sequence of all the 
avoidance maneuvers performed by the mobile robot. The 
trajectory is generated in real-time by selecting a single 
avoidance velocity at each time interval, using some heuristics 
to choose among all possible velocities in the reachable 
avoidance velocity set. 
This paper proposes a potential filed immune network 
(PFIN) for dynamic motion planning of mobile robots in an 
unknown environment with moving obstacles and 
fixed/moving target. The Velocity Obstacle method is 
employed to determine potential collisions of a robot moving 
in the time-varying environment. 
 
II. BIOLOGICAL IMMUNE SYSTEM 
 
The immune system protects living bodies from the invading 
of foreign substances called antigens. Lymphocytes float 
freely in blood and lymph nodes, and patrol everywhere for 
antigens, then gradually drift back into the lymphatic system, 
to begin the cycle all over again [3]. There are mainly two 
types of lymphocytes, namely B-cells and T-cells, which play 
an important role in immunities. The former takes part in the 
humoral immunity that secretes antibodies (Abs) by clonal 
proliferation, and the latter takes part in cell mediated 
immunity. One class of T-cells, called Killer T-cell, destroys 
the infected cell whenever they recognize the infection. The 
other class which trigger clonal expansion and 
stimulate/suppress antibody formation is called Helper T-cell. 
The APC (Antigen Presenting Cell) interprets the antigen 
appendage and extracts the features, by processing and 
presenting antigenic peptides on its surface to T-cell and B-
cell. 
Jerne [4] has proposed the idiotypic network hypothesis 
(immune network hypothesis) based on mutual stimulus and 
suppression between antibodies. This hypothesis is modeled 
as a differential equation simulating the concentration of a set 
of lymphocytes. The concept of immune network states that 
the network dynamically maintains the memory using a 
feedback mechanism within the network. Jerne concluded that 
the immune system is similar to the nervous system when 
viewed as a functional network. Based on Jerne’s immune 
network hypothesis, several theories and mathematical models 
for immune system have been developed.  
 
III.  THE VELOCITY OBSTACLE 
 
 
Fig.3. Configuration of mobile robot, obstacles, and target. 
 
In the proposed PFIN, the antibody’s receptor is defined as 
the situation between robot and the imminent collision 
obstacle: Ab1= dr,g ; Ab2= θr,g ; Ab3= dr,obs ; Ab4= θr,obs, where 
dr,obs and θr,obs represent the distance and orientation between 
the robot and obstacle. The response of the overall immune 
network is derived by determining the set of affinities 
associated with the receptors and the structural similarity 
between antigen and antibody defined by quantification of the 
distance in antigen space. The collective immune response 
function of the immune network is represented as the 
following function, 
⎪⎩
⎪⎨⎧ +=
+=
)()(
)()(
42
31
AbfAbf
AbfAbfv
r
r
ω  
where vr and ωr represent the robot’s velocity and angular 
velocity outputs, respectively. This is a kind of artificial 
potential field approach since it considers a virtual attractive 
force between the robot and the target (i.e. f(Ab1) and f(Ab2)) 
as well as virtual repulsive forces between the robot and the 
obstacles (i.e. f(Ab3) and f(Ab4)). The resultant force on the 
robot is then used to decide the velocities (i.e. vr and ωr) of its 
movements. Functions f(Abi) are expressed as following, 
4 ,3 ,2 ,1     ,)( 4
1
4
1 =
×
×=
∑
∑
=
= i
m
mm
KAbf
j
ij
j
iji
ii  
where mi is the affinity of antigen (the most imminent 
collision obstacle) and the ith antibody, mij is the affinity 
between the ith and jth antibody. Corresponding constant 
parameters are K1= 20, K2= 30, K3= 15, K4= 20, respectively. 
The affinity of the antigen and the ith antibody mi is fuzzified 
using the fuzzy set definitions in Fig. 4. The mapping from 
the fuzzy subspace to the TSK model is represented as fuzzy 
if-then rules, 
IF dr,g  is zero    THEN   vr = 0cm/s 
IF dr,g is nea    THEN   vr = 10cm/s 
IF dr,g is medium    THEN    vr = 15cm/s 
IF dr,g is far    THEN    vr = 20cm/s 
IF θr,g is -far     THEN    ωr = -30º/s 
IF θr,g is -medium   THEN    ωr = -25º/s 
IF θr,g is -near    THEN   ωr = -20º/s 
IF θr,g is -close    THEN    ωr = -10º/s 
IF θr,g is +close    THEN    ωr = 10º/s 
IF θr,g is +near    THEN   ωr = 20º/s 
IF θr,g is +medium  THEN   ωr = 25º/s 
IF θr,g is +far    THEN    ωr =30 º/s 
IF dr,obs is zero    THEN    vr = -15cm/s 
IF dr,obs is near    THEN    vr = -10cm/s 
IF dr,obs is medium    THEN    vr = -5cm/s 
IF dr,obs is far    THEN   vr = 0cm/s 
IF θr,obs is -far    THEN    ωr = 10º/s 
IF θr,obs is -medium   THEN    ωr = 20º/s 
IF θr,obs is -near    THEN    ωr = 30º/s 
IF θr,obs is +near    THEN   ωr = -30º/s 
IF θr,obs is +medium  THEN   ωr = -20º/s 
IF θr,obs is +far    THEN   ωr = -10º/sg 
 
 
Fig. 4 Membership functions of antibodies 
 
Consequently, the centroid defuzzification method is 
employed to calculate the weighted average of a fuzzy set. 
4 ,3 ,2 ,1     ,
0
0 ==
∑
∑
=
= i
y
m L
k
k
L
k
kk
i
μ
μ
 
where μk represent the matching degree of the kth rule and yk 
represent its corresponding output value. 
Finally, the stimulation and suppressive interaction 
between the ith and jth antibodies mij are listed in Table 1. 
Note that these value are optimized utilizing genetic 
algorithms. 
 
Table 1 Optimized affinity values between antibodies 
mij j=1 j=2 j=3 j=4 
i=1 1 -0.13 -0.24 -0.04
i=2 -0.02 1 -0.11 -0.42
i=3 -0.37 -0.84 1 0.92 
i=4 -0.21 -0.92 -0.31 1 
[7] E. Prassler, J. Scholz, and P. Fiorni, 'A robotic wheelchair for crowded 
public environments', IEEE Robotics and Automation Magazine, Vol. 7, 
no. 1, pp. 38-45, 2001. 
su
kim  indicate the stimulative and suppressive affinity between 
the ith and the jth, kth antibodies, respectively. mi denotes the 
affinity of antigen and antibody i, and ki represents the natural 
death coefficient. Equation (1) is composed of four terms. The 
first term shows the stimulation, while the second term depicts 
the suppressive interaction between the antibodies. The third 
term is the stimulus from the antigen, and the final term is the 
natural extinction term, which indicates the dissipation 
tendency in the absence of any interaction. Equation (2) is a 
squashing function to ensure the stability of the concentration.  
 
III.  COOPERATION STRATEGY BASED ON IMMUNE 
NETWORK 
Fig. 2 illustrates the architecture of the proposed immune 
network for soccer robot decision making. The proposed 
mechanism, imitating the cooperation between B-T cells, can 
help the robot adapt to the environment efficiently. In the 
immunology, the T-cell plays a remarkable key role for 
distinguishing a “self” from other “non-self” antigens. 
Resembling the biological immune system, its function is to 
prioritize the winning and loosing.  
 
 
Fig.2. The architecture of the proposed immune network. 
 
In addition to the goal keeper, the basic behaviors of the 
other four robots are kick, pass, chase, track, guard, and shoot. 
Therefore, each robot possesses an immune network 
containing these six actions/antibodies. Besides, these four 
immune networks generate a second-layer immune network as 
Fig. 3 demonstrated. 
 
 
Fig.3. The architecture of the proposed layered immune networks. 
In other words, Ab1≡ kick, Ab2≡pass, Ab3≡chase, Ab4≡track, 
Ab5≡guard, and Ab6≡shoot. As to the antigen, it represents the 
environment information received by sensors. Because the 
final goal of the robot soccer game is to shoot the ball into the 
opponent team's goal and keep the ball from own team's goal, 
the distance between the ball and opponent team's goal (dbg), 
the distance between ball and robot (dbr), and the state of other 
agents including teammates and opponentswithin view range 
(cw) are important inputs. Consequently, the antigen Ag is 
defined as {dbg, dbr, cw}. Therefore, the affinity value of each 
antibody Abi and antigen Ag is average value of these three 
terms, i.e. mi=(mb+mr+mcw)/3 whcih are described as follows: 
• affinity associated with the ball and robot mb: 
The affinity value mb is fuzzified using the fuzzy set 
definitions shown in Fig. 4. 
 
 
Fig.4. Membership functions of affinity mb
 
where the value of the position weight of ball is derived 
according to the division of the soccer filed shown in Fig. 5. 
For example, the area marked '5' means that 'antibody/Shoot' 
will have the biggest affinity value (mb =1) while the region 
marked '1' means that 'antibody/Guard' has the biggest affinity 
once if the ball is located in the corresponding regin. 
 
 
Fig.5. Division of the soccer field 
 
• affinity associated with the ball and robot mr: 
The affinity value mr is fuzzified using the fuzzy set 
definitions shown in Fig. 6.  
 
 
Fig.6. Membership functions of affinity mr
