2 
(b) that is coordinated with an elementary school, secondary school, institution 
of higher education, or community service program, and with the community; 
and helps foster civic responsibility; 
(c) that is integrated into and enhances the academic curriculum of the students, 
or the educational components of the community service program in which 
the participants are enrolled; 
(d) that provides structured time for the students or participants to reflect on the 
service experience. 
Many studies of ASL have showed the service-learning programs may help 
students achieve personal and educational goals [4], improve students’ attitude of 
leaning courses material [5], and strengthen a student’s personal perception of 
self-efficacy and empowerment [6]. A research by Richard Kendrick in SUNY 
College at Cortland showed that students in the service-learning course had greater 
improvements in social responsibility and personal efficacy than whom not in the 
course. A recent study published in the SIGCSE Bullet [7], provided a review of 
service-learning models connecting computer science to the community. The authors 
also pointed out their project success could be measured on two levels, pedagogical 
and personal. On the pedagogical level, students had opportunity to put what they 
learn in class into real world situations. On the personal level, students felt that they 
had provided a difference and unique service. About long-term academic benefits of 
service-learning during the last several years, as Strage provided evidence that college 
students manifest long lasting, if modest, academic benefits from participating in 
service-learning [8]. The results showed the academic records of 477 students who 
completed an Introductory Child Development lecture course with or without a 
service- learning requirement had statistical significance. The performance in grades 
earned by the "service-learning" was consistently better than the 
"non-service-learning". In this study, we show the potential how emerging 
technologies to facilitate the ASL activities, and an integrated system we constructed 
is demonstrated. 
2. Mobile learning and collaborative learning 
A survey on worldwide mobile industry found that mobile phone sales to end 
users totaled 417 million units in the third quarter of 2010, a 35% increase from the 
third quarter of 2009. Smartphone (e.g., iPhone, BlackBerry and Android-based phone) 
sales grew 96% from the third quarter of 2009, and smart phones accounted for 19.3% 
of overall mobile phone sales in the third quarter of 2010 [9]. With the advancement 
of handheld devices’ computing capability and mobility, the computing devices have 
become ubiquitous in today’s consumer electronics. People can acquire information 
with laptop or handheld devices and wireless services anytime and anywhere. More 
and more studies focus on these devices, especially in the field of electronic learning. 
Learning with mobile devices unlocks the study issues of mobile learning. Mobile 
learning can be used to complement classroom and online learning. It also makes 
learning seamless and personal. One study have claimed that a great majority of 
college students own computers and wireless devices with almost 80% believing that 
internet use has enhanced their learning experience [10]. Besides, collaboration 
becomes an essential competency in current society. It is hardly possible for an 
individual to complete a complicated task without help from others. As this 
consequence, the collaborative learning model becomes another study issue that 
people would pay attention. Robert E. Slavin in Johns Hopkins University addressed 
the concept of collaborative learning in 1983 [11]. According to Julita Vassileva’s 
4 
participants have learned practicing in community. In the other hand, the results also 
could be reference materials when we want to construct or hold other service-learning 
programs in the future. In this section, a series of implementations will be described, 
including the design of ASL programs and the construction of prototype system, 
which contains mobile system and web-based headquarter system. 
1. The design of ASL program in our study 
With the assistance from faculty members the participants will utilize content 
knowledge from their courses in classroom to meet community needs. In addition to 
the knowledge learned from three courses, students can also combine with their prior 
experiences and learning to transfer to the place of service-learning executing. Before 
they practiced the service, students had to propose their service plans. Then, they 
carried out the service-learning projects in community from summer in 2010. The 
three courses as mentioned above with a total of 8 credits, two are compulsory 
courses and one is elective course. More descriptions about these courses in detail are 
shown in Table 1. 
Table 1. The syllabus for courses with service-learning objectives 
Courses Credit / Grade Syllabus Objectives for service-learning 
Network 
Fundamentals 
(compulsory 
course) 
2 / 1 
Basics of computer network 
Connection media 
OSI layers 
TCP/IP fundamentals 
Network operating system 
Set up the local area network (MS Windows 7) 
Network layout and wireless setting 
File and print server configuration 
Network troubleshooting 
Business 
Information 
Systems 
(compulsory 
course) 
3 / 2 
IT strategy 
Organization of information management 
Planning IS architectures 
IT service and workspace management 
Process support using workflow management 
systems 
Requirements collection 
Analysis software requirements and 
management 
Software project management 
Database normalization 
Web Design 
and Website 
Management 
(elective 
course) 
3 / 4 
HTML fundamentals (HTML5) 
Understand how the JavaScript and AJAX 
work 
Using CSS to modify web pages 
Understand PHP and MySQL 
Use of jQuery and introduction of Web 2.0 
technology 
Http server configuration 
Content management system installation and 
configuration 
Portal system design 
Web pages design and website management 
All of these ASL courses consisted of two components in one semester with total 
18 weeks: 
(a) Community Service: Each course required 32 hours of servicing activities (8 
hours/week). Students must spend 4 weeks of one semester to engage in 
community service, and had to carry the mobile system in their smart phones; 
the system can assist them and log everything during the period. 
(b) Weekly lectures, readings, and reflective writings: Students who had 
participated in these programs were required to have lectures in classroom in 
other 14 weeks. Besides, they needed to do more reading before the service 
missions being executed, and then did more reflective writings after service 
missions had been completed. Throughout these training process would help 
them strengthen personal perception of self-efficacy and empowerment. So 
far, the project has lasted six months, and it will be followed with other 
courses to help us gather more data in the future. 
2. The construction of integrated system 
The participants who attended the course of “Web Design and Website 
Management” construct part of our proposed system. Students learned how the 
requirements engineering works, from requirements collection and arrangement to 
requirements analysis and management. Lab members design the mobile system and 
6 
The web based system is constructed for administrators and instructors to 
provide information and assign missions to each learner. The whole system is 
designed in PHP language. jQuery JavaScript platform is elected to facilitate rich 
client interface and asynchronous connection between browser and http server 
(AJAX). The Google Maps API is used in order to embed maps service into our 
headquarter system to track our participants working outside. LAMP (Linux, Apache 
http server, MySQL and PHP) framework is picked to be our web and database server. 
The system administrators and faculty members can monitor the operating situation of 
system and provide assistances to students on web-based command center. 
V. Experiment and Discussion 
1. Experiment information 
Twenty students who had participated in the service- learning project in the 
department of business administration were asked to complete a questionnaire to 
evaluate the usability of proposed mobile prototype. The heuristic evaluation [19] 
[20]questionnaire with 6-point scales was conducted. The questionnaire included four 
dimensions, these were, “Visibility of Interface Design”, “Stability of System”, 
“Interactivity of System” and “Instructional Potentials of System”. The experiment 
results will be/could have been references for improving usability. 
2. Experiment results 
Table 2. Result of heuristic evaluation 
A. Visibility of Interface Design 4.9 
Is graphic user interface easy to recognize? 4.9 
Is graphic user interface clearly displayed what services are provided? 5.1 
Is the structure of function menu unambiguous, clear and specific? 4.8 
Is the content organization and navigation function clearly understandable? 5.0 
Is information download time for the least sophisticated hardware/software configuration acceptable?  4.8 
B. Stability of System 4.8 
Is information displayed correctly and clearly when interact with the graphic user interface? 5.0 
Is response time appropriate to user’s cognitive processing? 4.7 
If there are observable delays in the system’s response time or error, is the user kept informed of system’s 
progress and status? 5.0 
If user tries to apply connection function, can system provide related information appropriately? 4.4 
Is the users’ route of servicing process logged completely?  4.9 
C. Interactivity of System 5.0 
Can system provide target information (including location and service objectives) in maps? 5.0 
System can provide various human-computer interaction mechanisms? 5.2 
Whether the system can provide effective reference information? 5.0 
Whether the system can provide support and immediate feedback? 4.9 
Whether route planning feature provides guidelines for constructive steps? 5.1 
D. Instructional Potentials of System 5.1 
Is the content of information rich and diverse? 4.8 
Is the information provided by system complete and accurate? 5.0 
Is the feedback of system easy to understand? 5.0 
Has the information of map route clearly marked? 5.3 
Is the incorporating mobile learning help in service-learning? 5.3 
The results show that users hold positive views to the interface design, stability, 
interactivity, and instructional potentials of the integrated system. The averages of 
four dimensions are 4.9, 5.0, 5.0, and 5.1 respectively. Subjects’ responses for mobile 
device designed of four dimensions were fairly consistent and positive. For the 
“Visibility of Interface Design” the item 2 “Is graphic user interface clearly displayed 
what services are provided?” get the highest rating (5.1), implying that the students 
can obtained clearly displayed information about what serviced should provide from 
the mobile device. For the “Stability of System” the item 4 “If user tries to apply 
connection function, can system provide related information appropriately?” get the 
lowest rating (4.4). The weak point resulted from the system lacking of enough 
information, which can be improved by the accumulating reference data. Due to 
8 
[11] R. E. Slavin, Collaborative Learning, New York: Longman, 1983. 
[12] J. Vassileva, “Toward social learning environments”. IEEE Transactions on 
Learning Technologies, Volume 1, Issue 4, 2008, pp.199-214. 
[13] Service-learning Center, Ministry of Education, Republic of China, Retrieved 
November 27, 2010, from http://english.moe.gov.tw/mp.asp?mp=10000  
[14] Service-learning Center, National Taiwan University, Retrieved December 23, 
2010, from http://service.osa.ntu.edu.tw/main.php  
[15] Open Service-learning Center, National Taiwan University, Retrieved December 
23, 2010, from http://ctld.ntu.edu.tw/digital/service/  
[16] National Chiao Tung University – Service-learning Center, Retrieved December 
23, 2010, from http://service-learning.nctu.edu.tw/  
[17] Fu Jen Catholic University Service-Learning Center, Retrieved December 23, 
2010, from http://slc.mission.fju.edu.tw/  
[18] Service-learning at Chung Yuan Christian University, Retrieved December 23, 
2010, from http://sl.mis.cycu.edu.tw/home/home.asp 
[19] J. Nielsen, Usability Inspection Methods, John Wiley & Sons Inc, 1994. 
[20] STC Usability & User Experience Community. Retrieved February 8, 2011, from 
http://www.stcsig.org/usability/index.html 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：楊宣哲 計畫編號：99-2218-E-236-001- 
計畫名稱：行動式服務學習輔助系統的建置與研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
