中   華   民   國  96 年  10 月  30  日 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
計畫名稱：MODELLING AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF WIRELESS 
SENSOR NETWORKS 
 
無線感測網路的模型塑造及效能評估 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-238-003- 
執行期限：95年8月1日至96年7月31日 
主持人：沙庫瑪 教授 萬能科技大學資訊管理學系 
 
一、 中英文摘要 
中文摘要 
    無線感測網路是新興的研究領域，而且使
用在非常多的工業應用。在WSN變遷的重要
里程中，發行IEEE 802.15.4這個特別的無線
實體與媒體存取控制層對於感測節點無線電
波的溝通標準，此外，IEEE 802.15.4標準定
義資料通信裝置使用低資料率、低電源和短
程傳輸的協定，此完全適合於無線感測網
路。在這個計畫中，提出對於IEEE 802.15.4
無線感測網路的CSMA-CA beacon-enabled
機制的效能分析模型。目前IEEE 802.15.4 
CSMA-CA機制被延伸包含節點利用封包碰
撞機率作為重新傳送限制。在星狀拓樸的
IEEE 802.15.4無線感測，利用ㄧ個三維的
Markov鏈用於上通路流量模型設計出分析節
點在流量不飽和的情況下的電量消耗與生產
量。此外，在此計劃的另ㄧ部份，對於無線
感測網路提出一種混合通道存取機制，此機
制修改IEEE 802.15.4通道存取程序而且結合
IEEE 802.11的二位元指數backoff機制。ㄧ
個延伸線性回饋模型被設計於系統的存貨節
點與離散時間Markov鏈模組發展用於分析最
佳化的無線感測網路媒體存取控制層。 
英文摘要 
      Wireless Sensor Network (WSN) is now an 
emerging research area and is used in many 
industrial applications. An important milestone 
in WSN transition has been the release of the 
IEEE 802.15.4 standard that specifies 
interoperable wireless physical and medium 
access control layers targeted to sensor node 
radios. Besides, the IEEE 802.15.4 standard 
defines protocol for the data communication 
devices using low data rate, low power and 
short-range transmissions, which is quite 
suitable for the wireless sensor network. In this 
project, analytical performance models for the 
beacon-enabled slotted CSMA-CA mechanism 
of IEEE 802.15.4 wireless sensor network are 
proposed. The current mechanism of IEEE 
802.15.4 CSMA-CA is extended to include the 
retransmission limit of the nodes with packet 
collision probability. A three-dimensional 
Markov chain model for the uplink traffic of the 
 performance of sensors have not been studied 
yet. Though concept of contention windows is 
introduced in IEEE 802.11, typical IEEE 802.11 
CSMA-CA mechanism is not suitable for the 
WSN, since sensors are randomly and densely 
deployed over certain region and transmit data 
time to time, as directed by the sink. Though 
several works propose the analytical models for 
WSN using IEEE 802.15.4, to the best of our 
knowledge, no analytical model evaluates the 
performance of the network based on the number 
of backlogged nodes with exponential backoff 
windows. Besides, no work studies the effect of 
backoff and halting procedures in the channel 
access mechanism of IEEE 802.15.4 CSMA. 
Hence, in our study we propose a hybrid CSMA 
mechanism that combines IEEE 802.15.4 CSMA 
mechanism and considers the concept of fixed 
versus binary exponential contention windows in 
the performance analysis of WSN. 
三、 今年度理論部份的成果 
The overall achievements of this project are 
described as follows:  
A. Performance Evaluation of IEEE 802.15.4 
based Wireless Sensor Network 
       In our work, we have designed an analytical 
model for the star topology of IEEE 802.15.4 
based wireless sensor network, where sensors 
are randomly distributed around a central 
coordinator, and each node is within its 
communication range. As shown in Fig. 1, we 
concentrate only on the uplink data transfer 
method in a beacon-enabled slotted CSMA-CA, 
taking accounts of the acknowledgements, where 
a device periodically listens to the network 
beacon.  
 
 
   Fig. 1: Our Data Transfer Model. 
 
The coordinator acknowledges the successful 
reception of the data request by transmitting an 
acknowledgment frame. If a single transmission 
attempt has failed and the transmission was 
direct, the device shall repeat the process of 
transmitting data or MAC command frame and 
waiting for the acknowledgment, up to a 
maximum of aMaxFrameRetries, which is the 
maximum number of retransmission times. If an 
acknowledgment is still not received after 
aMaxFrameRetries retransmissions, the MAC 
sublayer shall assume the transmission has failed 
and notify the next higher layer of the failure. 
This situation eventually is referred to as a 
communication failure. 
 
       It is to be noted that a sender may not receive 
the acknowledgement, if collision occurs during 
transmission or the packet is rejected due to 
some other reasons. In our model, since we 
consider a beacon-enabled slotted CSMA-CA, 
we care about receiving the acknowledgements 
after each transmission. Hence, an extension to 
the existing channel access mechanisms is 
proposed by considering the number of 
retransmission times (NRT) that incorporates the 
channel re-accessing mechanism due to loss of 
an acknowledgement. Our additional 
mechanisms, as shown in Fig. 2 totally comply 
with the standard.  
 B. Analytical Model for the Hybrid Channel 
Access Mechanism in WSN. 
It is to be noted that IEEE 802.11 channel access 
mechanism is quite different from CSMA 
procedure of IEEE 802.15.4. Hence, in our work, 
we have first analyzed the channel access and 
backoff mechanisms of IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 
802.15.4 based wireless sensor network.  
 
Fig. 5: Basic channel access mechanism in IEEE 
802.11 standard 
 
As shown in Fig. 5, during backoff procedure of 
IEEE 802.11, if a node detects a busy channel, it 
halts its backoff counter till the channel is idle 
for the period of DIFS. It can decrease its 
backoff counter again only after the channel is 
clear for DIFS. However, in IEEE 802.15.4, 
before sensing the channel, a node has to delay 
for the random backoff periods and then perform 
the first clear channel assessment (CCA1). If the 
node senses the channel to be busy, it again goes 
for the random backoff delay, otherwise 
performs the second clear channel assessment 
(CCA2). However, a node does not increase its 
backoff delay, if its CCA1 or CCA2 is failed as 
shown in Fig. 6.  
 
Fig. 6: Basic channel access mechanism in IEEE 
802.15.4 standard 
 
In our work, we have developed a hybrid 
CSMA-CA mechanism that considers the 
backoff windows and have combined the backoff 
and channel access procedure of both standards. 
For example, as shown in Fig. 7, let us assume 
that devices A and B are turned on at the same 
time, and are ready to transmit data. Since, both 
nodes A and B sense the channel idle and 
transmit data at the same time, collision occurs in 
the channel and thereby no node receives the 
acknowledgement. After the acknowledge 
timeouts, the CCA procedure is performed again. 
If the clear channel assessment is not a success, 
initial contention window is doubled and the 
device enters to the backoff procedure. After the 
backoff procedure, the retransmission begins. 
 
 
Fig. 7: Example of backoff procedure in our 
hybrid CSMA-CA mechanism. 
 
       If device C is turned on when device B is 
transmitting, device C senses the channel busy 
and will not transmit until completion of the 
current transmission. Upon terminating the 
current transmission, device A continues the 
backoff procedure and device C performs the 
CCA. Since, the result of CCA for device C is 
idle, it goes to the random backoff procedure and 
starts transmitting after the backoff procedure 
are over. After proposing a hybrid channel 
access mechanism, we have designed the 
Markov Chain Model with linear feed back 
model for a homogeneous, fully connected 
 applicable to low density wireless sensor 
network. Besides, it is observed that the nodes 
having larger packet size could get a better 
throughput and energy consumption of the nodes 
increases either with higher or lower data rates. 
In order to get better throughput, we should 
make the payload size as large as possible. 
B. Results of performance evaluation 
of Hybrid Channel Access mechanism 
       Here, we have considered a low density, 
single-hop and fully connected wireless sensor 
network without hidden terminals. The 
analytical results from our mathematical 
equations are obtained using Matlab tool and the 
simulation results are obtained from the 
implementation of our model with 
PowerTOSSIM [9], a scalable simulation 
environment based on TOSSIM for TinyOS [10] 
applications that provides the user accurate and 
per-node’s energy consumption estimation. The 
simulations are setup according to the IEEE 
802.15.4 MAC/PHY specification and radio 
characteristics of IEEE 802.15.4. The packet 
length is set as a constant length of 36 bytes with 
reference to the maximum packet length of 
MICAz specification. Using the Matlab tool, we 
have evaluated the energy consumption with 
packet generation probability.  
 
       The results obtained from both Matlab and 
PowerTOSSIM are compared to validate our 
analytical models and to know if the binary 
exponential backoff mechanism indeed benefits 
the energy conservation in WSNs. Then, we 
propose to find more energy efficient strategies 
by studying the energy consumption of our 
hybrid CSMA for binary exponential backoff 
(BEB) and energy consumption with a fixed 
contention window. Our experimental analysis 
shows that energy consumption of packet 
transmission in wireless sensor network is 
increased with increase in size of the contention 
window, traffic load and network population. 
Besides, it is observed that the energy 
consumption of packet transmission can be 
reduced by applying CSMA protocol with fixed 
contention window. 
 
五、結論 
      In this project, we got deep insight over the 
mathematical models of wireless sensor 
networks to explore the performance analysis 
MAC layer of wireless sensor networks. We 
gained lots of theoretical knowledge and latest 
research technologies of wireless network by 
attending several international conferences and 
presenting our views on this subject. From the 
funding of this project, we have generated the 
following papers, which are already published in 
the referred IEEE conference proceedings and 
under review of international SCI journals. 
 
1. “Performance Evaluation of IEEE 802.15.4 
Wireless Sensor Network with Packet 
Retransmission Limit”, under review in 
IEEE Tran. on Wireless Comm., since March, 
2007. 
2. “Performance Evaluation of Wireless 
Sensor Network with Hybrid Channel Access 
Mechanism” under review in Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing 
(SCI), since April, 2007. 
 
3.”Dynamic Coverage and Connectivity 
Maintenance Algorithms for Wireless Sensor 
Networks”, published in Proc. of IEEE 
COMSWARE, page(s): 1-9, Jan, 2007. 
[Acceptance rate: 34%] 
  
4. “Boundary Node Selection and Target 
Detection in Wireless Sensor Network”, 
published in Proc. of IEEE WOCN (EI), 
page(s): 1-5, July, 2007. 
六、 文獻參考: 
[1] G. Lu, B. Krishnamachari, and C. S. 
Raghavendra, ”Performance Evaluation of 
the IEEE 802.15.4 MAC for Low-Rate 
Low-Power Wireless Networks”, IEEE 
Workshop on Energy-Efficient Wireless 
Communications and Networks (EWCN), 
2004. 
[2] B. Bougard, F. Catthoor, D. C. Daly, A. 
Chandrakasan, and W. Dehaene, ”Energy 
Efficiency of the IEEE 802.15.4 Standard 
in Dense Wireless Microsensor Networks: 
 可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□  可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                                                       日期：96年10月30日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：無線感測網路的模型塑造及效能評估 
計畫主持人：沙庫瑪 教授 萬能科技大學資訊管理學系 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-238-003- 
學門領域：計算機網路與資料傳輸 
技術/創作名稱 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF IEEE 802.15.4 FOR RETRY LIMITS 
發明人/創作人 沙庫瑪 教授 
這個計畫我們發展了獨特的3-dimensional Markov鏈模型，此
可以評估單hop無線感測節點的效能。我們設計出模組透過
backoffs的各數(NB)、競爭視窗長度(CW)、backoff指數(BE)
和重新傳送次數各數(NRT)來評估效能。我們的模組可用於評
估節點的生產量與電源消耗。 技術說明 
In this project we have developed a unique 3-dimensional Markov 
chain model, which can evaluate the performance of single hop 
wireless sensor devices. We have designed the model taking number 
of backoffs (NB), contention window length (CW), backoff
exponent (BE) and number of retransmission times (NRT) to 
evaluate the performance. Our model is used to evaluate the 
throughput and energy consumption of the nodes. 
可利用之產業 
          及 
可開發之產品 
This property can be used for evaluating the performance of the star 
topology of the wireless sensors, which are used for the personal 
network, home automation etc.  
技術特點 
1. Performance evaluation of wireless sensor network 
2. Performance estimation of throughput and energy consumption of 
wireless sensors network.  
推廣及運用的價值 
Since, performance is the bottleneck of any network, our work can be 
used to evaluate the performance of WSN.  
   
 
附件二
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          96 年 7 月 9 日 
報告人姓名 沙庫瑪 服務機構 
及職稱 
萬能科技大學 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
96 年 7 月 2 日至 96 年 7 月 4 日 
 
新加坡 
本會核定 
補助文號 
       94WFDC100217 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) IEEE 無線與光通訊網路國際會議 
(英文) IEEE International Conference on Wireless and Optical Communications Networks 
(IEEE WOCN) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)  無線感測網路邊界節點選擇與目標偵測 
 (英文) Boundary Node Selection and Target Detection in Wireless Sensor Network  
 
