 2
 
摘要 
由於震動造成的誤差，想讓原子力顯微鏡在高速與大範圍掃描的狀況下達成精密定位是
不容易的。既然過大的定位誤差會造成原子力顯微鏡在樣本上作用過大的力，而過大的力又
極可能傷害樣本，為了避免此定位誤差的情形發生，使用者多半在低速掃瞄的狀況下操作原
子力顯微鏡。當然這種低速操作將限制了量取樣本動態變化的可能性。本計畫運用疊代法的
技術來實現高速與大範圍掃瞄的精密定位。實驗結果證實本計畫所提出的方法可以將位置誤
差控制在 20nm，而且施加在掃描物體的力量低於 500pN。其特別於使用此方法將可(1)  ‘在
線’(on-line) 實現，這樣一來便能達成即時(real-time)控制 (2) 在整個掃描過程中達成精
密定位，而不是只在最後一次疊代實現精密定位。 
 
關鍵詞: 原子力顯微鏡， 疊代控制 
 
Abstract 
 
It is difficult to control atomic force microscopes (AFMs) to achieve precision-positioning at 
high-scanning-rate and large-range operation due to the vibration-caused error. Since large 
positioning error will cause large force on samples and large force may damage samples, users 
usually operate AFM at low-scanning-rate to avoid large positioning errors, and this hinders 
measuring bio-samples’ dynamic changes of property.  In this research, we utilized an iterative 
control method to solve the precision-positioning problem on AFM to achieve high-scanning-rate 
and large-range operation. Experimental results show that, with the proposed method, the 
positioning error of the AFM-probe is less than 20nm, which keeps the probe-to-sample force to be 
around 500pN. In particular, the iteration-algorithm used in this research can be implemented 
on-line, and the positioning error can be kept small not only at the end but also during the whole 
iteration process. 
 
 
Key Words: 
AFM, iterative control 
 
 
I. Introduction 
The main point of this research: 
This research is to solve the precision-positioning problem on atomic force microscopes (AFMs) 
to achieve high-scanning-rate operation. It is noted that AFM is a type of scanning probe 
microscopes (SPMs) which work by positioning a probe over the scanned objects. Because of its 
high-spatial resolution (usually to nano-meter level) and ease to reveal specimens' 3-D 
characteristics[1], since it was developed in 1986[2], it has been used broadly for nano-science/ 
technology including fabrication[3, 4], defect-investigation[5], mechanical-property-measuring[6, 
 
Fig. 1: Schematic diagram of AFM Operation.  The piezoscanner enables positioning of the AFM 
probe both parallel (along the x and y-axis) and perpendicular (along the z-axis) to the 
sample surface. The probe-sample distance (interaction) is controlled using feedback in 
the z-axis.  
Remark 1: In this research, the contact mode AFM was used for all experiments based on three reasons: (1) Contact 
mode AFM was used for bio-studies in the past and results showed that high-quality images could be gotten[8, 17]. (2) 
Although some people claim the advantages of tapping mode on eliminating lateral force and avoiding probe stuck in 
liquid layer[1], it is not clear that tapping mode is better than contact mode for bio-study. (3) The proposed algorithm 
in this research is a general method and can be applied to different AFM modes for positioning/ force control. 
Therefore, in the rest of this research, the contact mode AFM will be focused. 
 
The importance of precision-positioning for AFM operation: 
If the AFM probe does not follow the sample topography (i.e., there are positioning-errors), then 
the probe tip can protrude into the surface, which leads to an increase in the tip-sample force and 
causes sample damage and tip contamination (see Fig.2). Moreover, it is also important to 
precisely follow the sample topography for avoiding loss of contact with the surface. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: Positioning need:   If the AFM probe does not follow the sample topography, then the 
probe tip can dig into the soft sample (compare left and right figures) and result in large 
tip-sample forces. Moreover, lack of precision positioning can also cause loss of contact 
with the surface, e.g., when scanning from right to left for this example. 
 
 
The challenge of using AFM: 
The challenge of using AFM is to operate it for large-range scan with high-scanning-rate. As  the  
scanning-rate is increased relative to the smallest, resonant-vibrational frequency of the 
 4
High-scanning-rate and large-range AFM operation is needed for investigation of nano-scale 
properties of samples with relatively-large features. To achieve this goal, Early work showed that 
model-based inversion methods can be used to find feedforward inputs, which leads to high-speed, 
precision positioning in scanning-probe microscopy[28, 29]; recent advances in feedforward 
implementation are discussed in Ref.[30-32]. The feedforward input can also be integrated with 
feedback techniques[28, 30, 31, 33, 34] to further improve the positioning performance, provided 
the modeling errors are not too large[35]. Modeling errors, e.g., due to day-to-day variations in 
operating conditions, can be accounted for by using iterative methods to improve the positioning 
precision[36, 37]. Issues in implementing such iterative methods in an AFM such as the use of a 
previously scanned image to correct the next image are discussed in[38]. Thus, 
model-inversion-based techniques enable precision positioning of the AFM probe at 
high-scanning-rate. 
 
The novelty of this research: 
In this research, an iterative-model-based technique will be used to achieve precision-positioning 
for AFM operation at high-scanning-rate and large-range. The novelty of this research is: (i) by 
using proposed method, precision-positioning (and then small AFM probe-to-sample force) will be 
achieved during the entire iteration process, not just the last iteration. (ii) the iteration-algorithm 
can be implemented on-line, which increase the feasibility for real-time applications. 
 
 
II. Problem formulation 
Positioning AFM probe to reduce applied-force on samples: 
The goal is to follow the sample topography with the tip of the AFM probe, which is positioned 
with a piezoscanner, both parallel to the sample surface (along the x and y-axis) and perpendicular 
(along the z-axis) to the sample surface as shown in Fig. 1. Because the tip-sample force F(pN) is 
proportional to the AFM-probe deflection Z, i.e.,  
 
( ) ( )F t kZ t=             (1) 
 
where k(pN/nm) is the spring constant of the probe. The controller design aims to reduce the 
AFM-probe deflection resulting from the positioning error ez; in other words, the deflection of 
AFM-probe will be maintained to a small nominal value Znom. Therefore, the total force applied to 
samples will be small. 
 
Z( ) ( )nom zt Z e t= +        (2) 
 
Control of AFM-probe position: 
Fig. 4 shows the control scheme diagram to maintain small AFM-probe deflection. It can be seen 
that when the displacement of piezo-scanner Zp equals the sample-profile Zsample, the probe 
 6
 
Fig. 4: The control scheme diagram to maintain small AFM-probe deflection 
 
 
Iterative approach to correct modeling errors: 
The inverse input achieves perfect control of the AFM-probe deflection (ez=0) in the absence of 
modeling errors. However, modeling errors can occur due to day-to-day variations in the operating 
conditions such as temperature changes, differences in sample properties, aging of the piezos, 
unmodeled vibrations, and variations in fluid effects. To correct the modeling errors, the 
model-inversion-based iterative approach will be used in this research to improve the control over 
the precision-positioning of the AFM-probe.  
 
The iterative control law uses the measured error ez, k in the AFM-probe deflection during one 
iteration step k to update the current input from one iteration step k to another k+1, i.e., from input 
uff, k to input uff, k+1,  as , 
 
1
, 1 ,U ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )[ (ff k ff k ff kj U j G j E j )]ω ω ρ ω ω ω−+ = +          (8) 
 
The convergence of such an iterative approach  
 
*
,lim ( )ff k ffk U j Uω→∞ =  
 
has been studied in [36, 37] and the convergence-rate can be adjusted by choosing different iteration 
gain ρ(ω). Additional implementation issues such as the effect of noise on the convergence rate 
and the use of prior information of the sample to estimate the desired sample topography z for AFM 
applications were discussed in[36, 38]. 
 
 
III. Method 
The method of how to achieve high-scanning-rate and large-range operation of AFM will be 
discussed in this section. Although iteration method proposed in section II. provides a way to 
achieve precision positioning, it should be modified before applying on scanning samples. The 
reason is: there is no information to be used for iteration if we hope to start scanning at 
 8
 
(b)Using optimal inversion to get ginv(t): Instead of calculating the input u such that the desired 
output yd can be tracked, an optimal input uopt is calculated by minimizing the following cost 
function, 
 
 10
d
* *J(u)= ( ) ( ) ( ) [ ( ) ( )] ( )[ ( ) ( )]du j R j u j y j y j Q j y j y j dω ω ω ω ω ω ω ω+∞−∞ + − −∫ ω               (10) 
 
where, * denotes the conjugate transpose of matrices with complex elements; R(jω) and Q(jω) 
represent the penalties put on the input and output-tracking error, respectively. In particular, the 
optimal input ,uopt (i.e., solution of eq. 10 [40]), for single-input-single-output (SISO) system is 
 
*
*
( ) ( )( ) (
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )opt d
G j Q ju j y j
G j G j Q j R j
ω ω )ω ωω ω ω ω= +                 (11) 
 
It is noted that, in order to guarantee the proposed iterative control law to converge, the criteria 
shown in [36] should be satisfied (i.e., setting the iteration gain, ρ(ω), to be zero when the phase 
error , Δθ(jω), is greater than π/2). Since the iteration gain, ρ(ω), and inverse system, G-1(jω), 
are multiplied by each other in the iterative control law (see eq. (8)), it is equivalent to set the 
optimal input , uopt, to be zero directly by setting Q(jω)=0 and R(jω)=1 at those frequencies where 
the phase error of model is greater than π/2. By doing this setting, the impulse response of the 
inverse system, ginv(t), is just the Inverse-Fourier transform of uopt(jω) when the desired output yd(j
ω) is set to be unit. 
(c) Approximate convolution: In order to reduce the computational effort and implement the 
proposed iterative method on-line, the convolution shown in eq. (9) is modified by utilizing the 
reality that the impulse response of inverse system ginv(t) will decay and be close to zero outside a 
finite time-interval; therefore, the convolution can be approximated as,  
 
1
2
( ) ( ) ( )
t T
inv dt T
u t g y t dτ τ τ+−= ∫ −             (12) 
 
where T1 and T2 are the review- and preview-time, respectively, and can be determined by the 
settling time of the system to get good approximation. 
 
Remark 2: The review time T1 is dominated by the system's pole which is closest to the imaginary-axis. If this pole is 
closer to the imaginary-axis, the needed review-time is longer. Similar idea can be applied on preview-time T2 by 
evaluate the system's zero which is closest to the imaginary-axis[41]. 
 
(d) Hardware setup and measurement: Fig. 6 shows the schematic diagram of hardware setup. The 
main components for realizing high-scanning-rate and large-range AFM operation can be 
 Fig. 7 System dynamics Gff ; solid line: measured data, dotted-dashed line: fitted result . 
 
After the process of curve-fitting, the system dynamics was used to calculated the impulse response, 
ginv . It can be seen from Fig. 8, the impulse response decayed to less than one-hundredth of the 
maximum value (i.e., from 2.5e-3 to 2.38e-5) outside the preview/ review-time; therefore, we made 
the iterative control law as,  
 
, 1 ,( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
review
preview
t T
ff k ff k inv kt T
u t u t g e t dρ τ τ++ −= + −∫ τ    (13) 
 
                   
Fig. 8 Time domain unit-impulse response ginv of inverse transfer function of Gff  
 
Precision positioning has been achieved 
Fig. 9 showed the scanning results of cover glass at 20Hz. By setting the iteration gain, ρ=0.2, it can 
be seen that during this relatively large scanning range, 10*10 µm, the positioning error is less than 
20nm, which corresponds to 200pN in our experiment. Considering of the nominal force (340pN) 
applied on the sample initially, the total force was kept around 500pN. 
 
 12
 14
the atomic force microscope. Langmuir, 1998. 14(12): p. 3320-3325. 
7. E. Tomasetti, R. Legras, and B. Nysten, Quantitative approach towards the measurement of 
polypropylene/(ethylene-propylene) copolymer blends surface elastic properties by AFM. 
Nanotechnology, 1998. 9(4): p. 305-315. 
8. C. Le Grimellec, E. Lesniewska, M.C. Giocondi, E. Finot, V. Vie, and J.P. Goudonnet, 
Imaging of the surface of living cells by low-force contact-mode atomic force microscopy. 
Biophysical Journal, 1998. 75(2): p. 695-703. 
9. C. Rotsch, F. Braet, E. Wisse, and M. Radmacher, AFM Imaging and Elasticity 
Measurements on Living Rat Liver Macrophages. Cell Biology Internatinal, 1997. 21(11): p. 
685-696. 
10. M.B. Viani, T.E. Schaffer, A. Chand, M. Rief, H.E. Gaub, and P.K. Hansma, Small 
cantilevers for force spectroscopy of single molecules. Journal of Applied Physics, 1999. 
86(4): p. 2258-2262. 
11. B. Alberts, A. Johnson, J. Lewis, M. Raff, K. Robert, and P. Walter, Molecular Biology of 
the Cell. 4th ed: Garland Science. 
12. A.M. Glauert, Practical Methods in Electron Microscopy. Vol. V2: North-Holland/ 
American Elserier. 
13. S. Park, D. Koch, R. Cardenas, J. Kas, and C.K. Shih, Cell motility and local viscoelasticity 
of fibroblasts. Biophysical Journal, 2005. 89(6): p. 4330-4342. 
14. M. Radmacher, Measuring the elastic properties of biological samples with the AFM. IEEE 
Engineering in Medicine and Biology Magazine, 1997. 16(2): p. 47-57. 
15. H. Dong, M. Wanyun, L. Fulong, Y. Meiling, O. Zhigang, and S. Yunxu, Time-Series 
Observation of the Spreading out of Microvessel Endothelial Cells with Atomic Force 
Microscopy. Physics in Medicine and Biology, 2003. 48: p. 3897-3909. 
16. G.G. Martins and J. Kolega, Endothelial cell protrusion and migration in three-dimensional 
collagen matrices. Cell Motility and the Cytoskeleton, 2006. 63(2): p. 101-115. 
17. D.J. Muller, G. Buldt, and A. Engel, Force-Induced Conformational Change of 
Bacteriorhodopsin. Journal of Molecular Biology, 1995. 249(2): p. 239-243. 
18. R.C. Barrett and C.F. Quate, Optical Scan-Correction System Applied to Atomic Force 
Microscopy. Review of Scientific Instruments, 1991. 62(6): p. 1393-1399. 
19. Z. Shao, J. Mou, D.M. Czajkowsky, J. Yang, and J.-Y. Yuan, Biological Atomic Force 
Microscopy: What is Achieved and What is Needed. Advances in Physics, 1996. 45(1): p. 
1-86. 
20. R. Koops and G.A. Sawatzky, New Scanning Device for Scanning Tunneling Microscope 
Applications. Review of Scientific Instruments, 1992. 63(8): p. 4008-4009. 
21. M.B. Viani, T.E. Schaffer, G.T. Paloczi, L.I. Pietrasanta, B.L. Smith, J.B. Thompson, M. 
Richter, M. Rief, H.E. Gaub, K.W. Plaxco, A.N. Cleland, H.G. Hansma, and P.K. Hansma, 
Fast imaging and fast force spectroscopy of single biopolymers with a new atomic force 
microscope designed for small cantilevers. Review of Scientific Instruments, 1999. 70(11): 
p. 4300-4303. 
