 1
Abstract: Background and Purpose. Nowadays, how to help elders with unavoidable detriment of physiological function of low 
limbs to stand up and sit down easier and safer to accomplish other activities of daily living has become the subject that can't be 
ignored. Although the effects of aging on sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit have been widely studied, there is a lack of information 
concerning the effect of posture transfer strategies adopted by the elder. The purpose of this study is to investigate if the posture 
transfer strategies: No Support, Chair-Arm used and Cane used affect the smallest compressed angle of hip and ankle during 
sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit. Subjects. Twelve community dwelling elders (mean = 82.3 years old, SD = 5.79) volunteered to 
participate. Methods. By optoelectronic movement analyzer, the smallest compressed angle of hip and ankle were measured 
during standing up and sitting down. Meanwhile, the whole process were observed, recorded, and then analyzed. The risk factors 
of posture transfer were thoroughly surveyed. Results. Regarding the smallest compressed angle of hip, there was significant 
difference among strategies adopted: No Support (59.55°), Cane used (65.90°), and Chair-Arm used (72.13°) during standing up. 
There was also significant difference among strategies of No Support (62.65°), Chair-Arm used (69.39°) and Cane used (67.74°) 
during sitting down. No matter sit-to-stand or stand-to-sit transfer, the smallest compressed angle of ankle was not significantly 
affected by the strategies adopted. It was observed that Chair-Arm used strategy could offer some support in the pre-extension 
phase of standing up and in the bending phase of sitting down, but cannot offer any help in the extension phase of standing up and 
in the pre-bending phase of sitting down. Although Cane used strategy leads to larger trunk angular displacement than Chair-Arm 
used strategy does, a cane could offer help during the whole transfer process. Discussion and Conclusion. The findings have 
showed that the smallest compressed angle of hip as strategies of Chair-Arm used and Cane used being adopted were larger than 
that as No Support strategy being adopted, therefore, the chair arms or a cane used could help the elder to reduce the trunk angular 
displacement during standing up or sitting down. The findings also have shown that strategies of Chair-Arm used and Cane 
used could offer some degrees of support in the posture transfer during sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit. It is suggested that these two 
strategies might be seen as adaptive mechanisms to decrease the risk of anterior disequilibrium. 
 
Key words: Aging, Activities of daily living, Motion analysis, Movement 
 
1. Introduction 
Rising from a sitting position and sitting down on a chair have been evaluated as the most 
important functional motions and are the common movements in our daily life (Hodge, 1989, 
1986).  
Aissaoui et al (1999) have reviewed some literatures about biomechanical analysis and modelling 
of sit-to-stand task. They summarized that research related to the sit-to-stand task has been 
oriented toward four major applications: chair design, therapy methods, analysis of normal and 
abnormal sit-to-stand movement and biomechanical modelling. Revealed the relevant researches 
from 1988 to 2001 by Janssen, & Bussmann (2002), the topics of rising from a chair also 
including the subjects of the time and phase analyzing, the acting and reacting force between feet 
and floor, the way of the low limb muscles move, the angular speed and degree of the trunk and 
the shank and the displacement of Center of Mass (CoM). For example, Riley et al (1991) 
observed movements with the position change of center of mass and emphasized the role of the 
trunk in generating momentum to carry the body through the dynamic transition of standing. The 
height of seat, a seat with/without armrest, the angle of knee, et al, are all also the factors in 
influencing the success of sit-to-stand.  
Dubost et al (2005) researched the early features of aging by the changing of trunk and shank 
 3
standardized balance test was performed according to Berg Balance Scale (Berg, 1989), which 
was designed by Berg to evaluate community-dwelling elderly people’s abilities of functional 
standing balance to make sure that all the participants could complete all the trials. The Berg 
Balance Scale maximum score is 56, a higher score reflects better balance; a score less than 41 
means the elder could not move without assistance.  
Included participants met the following criteria: (1) age over 65 years old, (2) no acute medical 
illness in the past 3 months, such as coronary heart disease, heart failure, or pulmonary infection, 
(3) Berg Balance Scale score over 41, (4) no orthopaedic diagnoses, (5) no muscular diseases, (6) 
ability to stand up from a chair without help. 
2.2 Apparatus 
Three cameras with integrated LED array (sampling frequency of 60 Hz) were placed 5 m from 
each participant’s position of left front, right front and right rear. All the movements were 
recorded of 5 retro-reflective markers glued to anatomical sites, using an optoelectronic 
measuring device (MacReflex motion capture system). The 5 markers were placed on the 
participant’s right side at the following sites: acromion, greater trochanter, lateral knee joint space, 
lateral malleolous, and fifth metatarsophalangeal joint.  
Two digital video cameras were used to record the movements. One was placed on a tripod and 
leveled from right side to left side and the other was front to back. The cameras were also placed 
5 meters away from the subject so that the entire range of motion would be captured on film. The 
experimental setting was shown in Fig. 1. 
 
Fig. 1.  The map of experimental setting 
According to the suggestion for ergonomic chair by ANSI, the seat plane angle of the 
experimental seat is 0°~10° backward, and the angle between seat plane and back is 90°~105°. 
The depth of seat is less than 43 cm in order to fit the smaller person, the width of seat palne is 45 
 5
processing. Then the subject was asked to sit down. In stand-to-sit situation, subjects were asked 
to sit down then kept their body to the start sitting point. Until the subject was really balanced, the 
sit-down activity was counting as processing. For each treatment, 3 repeats were done. In the 
Chair-Arm strategy and Cane used strategy tests, subject’s both hands were asked to use armrests 
and cane for aid. Totally, each subject performed 9 trials. 
2.4 Outcome measure 
Using QTM software, the 5 markers were linked to construct a model with 4 segments: the trunk, 
the thigh, the shank and the foot.  
The main dependent variables were defined as the values of the smallest compressed angle of hip 
and ankle collected during the 3 treatments (No Support, Chair-Arm used and Cane used). These 
variables were measured in 2 conditions: standing up and sitting down. 
The smallest compressed angle of hip and ankle were computed using the following segments: (1) 
the smallest compressed angle of hip, the angle from the trunk to the thigh compressed extremely 
during sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit, and (2) the smallest compressed angle of ankle, the angle 
from the shank to the foot compressed extremely during sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit. 
2.5 Result and Analysis   
By the Motion Capture System, the movements of Sit-to-Stand from tiny moving in seat to stand 
without swinging and stand-to-sit from small moving in standing to sit stably in 3 strategies were 
recorded. One-Way ANOVA with randomized complete block design was used to analyze data. 
The main factor is strategy which has three levels: No Support, Chair-Arm used and Cane used. 
Block factor is subject. If ANOVA showed significant result, the least significant difference (LSD) 
method would be adopted to conduct the post-hoc test. 
Table 1 and Table 2 describe both the smallest compressed angles of hip and ankle during the 
sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit transfers for the elders respectively. Each participant’s means and 
standard deviations and each group’s rang of values for the 3 trials were presented. The 4 
ANOVA tables were shown in Table 3, Table 4, Table 5 and Table 6. 
 
Table 1.  Sit-to-Stand  (Mean ± SD) 
 
 7
sitting down), whereas no significant difference was found for the smallest compressed angles of 
ankle (P = 0.270 for standing up and P = 0.194 for sitting down). Therefore, two more post-hoc 
tests were conducted on the smallest compressed angles of hip. The results of LSD from the 
smallest hip angle to the largest hip angle were shown in table 7. 
Table 7. The smallest compressed hip angle grouping by LSD 
 
 
3. Discussions 
The maximum score of Barthel Index is 100. The higher the score the more "independent" the 
person is. In this study, the results obtained in the Barthel Index indicated that the participants 
were almost able to live independently and safely. The average BI score was 92.08 (SD = 3.96) 
showed that the subjects relied on an assistant slightly. But, with the low IADL scale scores 
ranging 0-8 of 5.25 (SD = 1.82), these subjects needed more help to complete the more complex 
activities, such as telephone using, shopping, food preparing, housekeeping, medicine taking, and 
so forth. The mean score of MMSE of these subjects reflects the cognitive status for older adults 
aged about 81 years. The average MMSE score was 25.25 (SD = 5.36). 3 subjects had the 
maximum score of 30 points, and scores below 24 were suggestive of cognitive deficits. Although 
their cognitive ability was not like normal adults’, they would not be treated as the patients with 
cognitive impairment. The mean score of Berg Balance Scale was 54.17 (SD = 1.70) told that all 
participants were with the ability to maintain balance and were able to stand up and to sit down 
independently. Thus, these assessments ensured that all the participants engaged in our study 
were neither functional impaired in cognition nor functional incapacities.  
All participants were able to complete the sequence without falling. To stand up, participants first 
flexed the hip while still in contact with the chair and then extended the hip and knee joints 
during the ascent part of the rise. The time of ankle joint reversal from flexion to extension 
occurred after the seat-off (initial loss of contact with the chair). To sit down, participants 
simultaneously flexed their hip and knee joints and then extended the hip after the seat-on (time 
of initial contact with the chair). The time of ankle joint reversal from flexion to extension 
occurred before the seat-on. Consequently, when the person is standing up, the smallest 
compressed angle of hip is at the time of seat-off and the smallest compressed angle of ankle is 
just after the seat-off. When the person is sitting down, the smallest compressed angle of hip is at 
the time of seat-on, while the smallest compressed angle of ankle is just before the seat-on. The 
difference of the 3 strategies were the hands placed and the Assistive Device used or not. 
Health status in older adults can be different considerably because of the various adding effects of 
physiologic decline and of chronic diseases. Researches related to the sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit 
tasks have regarded the healthy older adults as the target mostly, and set the back of the chair to 
 9
Arm-Used strategy share the strength of low limbs and provided sufficient balance in rising. 
Nevertheless, there were no aids at later phase, such as stabilization phase and quiet standing 
phase of standing and the earlier phase, such as quiet standing phase, initiation phase and 
descending phase of sitting, like a cane could provide during the whole processes. All the phases 
mentioned above were defined by Kralj (1990). 
Alexander (1991), Schltz (1992) and Carr  (1992) studied the affects of the limb torque or angle 
changing when subjects used two hands to press the chair arm or a cane. In this study, most of the 
objects used the cane with common usage hand for aid to stand and sit at the practice period. For 
further inquiring, all the subjects thought that using both hands felt more stable during posture 
transfer.  For further observation, when using a cane with one hand, the subjects regard cane as 
the strength fulcrum to twist their trunk for arising. It was proceeded in opposite directions for 
Ergonomics theory and therapy training. Assistive Device designer could lead the user to use the 
Assistive Device correctly in function setting and form creating to avoid unconscious 
accumulating injuring. For consistency, in this study, all the subjects were asked to use both 
hands in the strategies of Chair-Arm used and Cane used. 
4. Conclusions 
  The results have shown that posture transfer strategies indeed influence the smallest 
compressed angle between trunk and thigh when they stand up and sit down. Regarding the angle 
of the elders' ankle, the influence has not yet shown in evidence. The findings also have shown 
that strategies of Chair-Arm used and Cane used could offer some degrees of support in the 
posture transfer during sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit movements. It is suggested that these two 
strategies might be seen as adaptive mechanisms to decrease the risk of anterior disequilibrium. 
However, our results must be confirmed by studies including numerous subjects and by using 
new methods for ambulatory movement analysis to match the assessment of real measuring 
situation. Such as the data detected by force plates must be useful to help verifying the 
assessment of posture transfer strategies. The great amount of preparation of the subjects and the 
data processing required by optoelectronic motion analysis system make it difficult to apply such 
systems to large groups. A limitation of our investigation was the small sample size (12 
participants) indeed, but all the outcomes still can help clinicians and the designer of assistive 
device to focus their observations and design on the most relevant indicators of aging. 
5. Acknowledgment 
This research was supported by a grant from the Tatung University (B95-D05-023). The authors 
also gratefully acknowledge the contribution of the Taipei Shilin Senior Center. 
6. References 
1. Aissaoui, R., & Dansereau, J., “Biomechanical Analysis and Modelling of Sit to Stand Task: a 
Literature Review,” IEEE, 1999. 
2. Barberger-Gateau, P., Commenges, D., & Gagnon, M., “Instrumental Activities of Daily Living 
as a Screening Tool for Cognitive Impairment and Dementia in Elderly Community Dwellers,” 
