 2
的光學性質可以藉由染料分子的順反異構現象來加以改變。假使向列型液晶存在於向列相(nematic 
phase)中，此時光穿透過此液晶中會因為液晶的排列整齊，使的光可以完全穿透。如果在這時摻雜一偶
氮型染料分子，並透過光場改變方式來產生染料分子的順反異構現象，此時液晶結構會由原本的向列
態轉變成均勻相(isotropic phase)，光穿透過此液晶中會因為液晶的雙折射現象，導致光散射掉並使得光
穿透率降低。此種利用外加光場來調變光學材料的光學特性，也稱作全光學調變效應( all-optical 
switching effect)。 
 
II. 研究目的 
瞭解摻雜不同的染料分子到不同種類的液晶之光控機制，找出光控液晶最佳的光學表現能力與成
分、環境溫度及外加光場的關連性:以光控膽固醇液晶(cholesteric liquid crystal, CLC)為例，由於具備類
似光子晶體(photonic crystal)的結構，可用來當作可調式布拉格反射(Bragg reflector)元件，此領域的學
者大都是研究利用光來控制膽固醇液晶所反射的波長，很少去研究光學反射性質或液晶反應時間與液
晶轉換機制的關連性，並加以改善其光學性質。根據計劃主持人的初步研究發現，光控液晶的光學表
現，跟其所形成的液晶相有關。而所形成的液晶向的轉變，又跟所摻雜的染料分子種類、液晶濃度、
光源波長及強度有關，因此希望結合研究液晶的光學物理與其相對成分特性的研究，來對光控液晶作
系統化及通盤性的了解，並提出相關理論與結果，與此領域學者分享。本實驗研究著重在一道光場引
致光控型膽固醇液晶的現象，目的使其產生快速且可逆的相變化，此外光控型液晶在有些全光調控元
件上無法有效地進行配向，而我們製作液晶樣本時不需要液晶配向的技術，可以省去一些繁瑣的步驟，
也希望本實驗成果可以改善光控型液晶在全光調控元件上的應用。 
 
III. 文獻探討 
在國內與光控液晶研究相關聯的主要具代表性的研究學者有: 成功大學物理系及光電所傅永貴教
授，嘉義大學應用物理系羅光耀教授等。將此 2 位教授的研究狀況與本計畫相關之重點敘述如下。 
(1) 傅永貴教授主要研究方向為聚合物-液晶混合材料之製作與研究，染料-液晶混合材料之光配向應
用與研究，非線性光學研究，膽固醇液晶材料在激發雷射之應用與研究，光子晶體之應用與研究。傅
教授早期的研究是針對 Holographic polymer dispersed liquid crystal (H-PDLC)光柵(grating)的物性及光
學性質探討為主，也是台灣第一位與 H-PDLC 研究相關的學者。計畫主持人的研究專長當中也包含了
對 H-PDLC 的研究。從 2004 年開始傅教授開始對摻雜染料分子的液晶的光折變效應(photorefractive 
effect)及濾光(spatial filter)特性作探討，傅教授的研究成果開啟了國內對光控液晶的物理及光學特性研
究興趣。 
(2) 羅光耀教授主要研究方向為非線性光學及液晶光電材料等。其專長在於研究材料的二階非線性特
性(second-harmonic generation)。除了動態觀察到摻雜染料分子的液晶的光配相(photoalignment)現象
外，同時也利用光控液晶的特性來調變奈米金的穿透光譜。 
    在國外與光控液晶研究相關聯的主要具代表性的研究學者有: 日本東京工業大學的 Tomiki 
Ikeda，美國中佛羅里達光學中心 (CREOL)吳詩聰教授 (Shin-Tson Wu)，美國空軍研究中心
(AFRL)Timothy J. Bunning 及其合作夥伴。將此 3 個單位研究狀況與本計畫相關之重點敘述如下。 
(1) Ikeda 教授早在 1987 年就開始研究光控液晶的特性。由於 Ikeda 教授的專長是高分子化學，因此早
期的研究著重於合成具光控特性的染料分子或液晶分子。但近幾年來其研究在光控偶氮型液晶聚合物
(azobenzene liquid crystalline polymers)的光學及機械性質，有非常傑出的表現。其所發表的相關文章，
也啟發了計畫主持人在光控液晶上的研究。Ikeda 教授在光控液晶等相關研究與其它研究團隊較不同
的是所摻雜的偶氮型染料分子不只具備順反異構現象(cis-trans deformation)，同時也具備有液晶特
場條件所拍攝的相圖，在照光前，觀察到的結構屬於 Planar texture，此種結構反射特定波段的光，在
穿透頻譜上形成反射波段，而照射光場後，結構會轉變為 Isotropic state，且在巨觀下觀察樣本為透明
態，當去除光場時，結構無法變回初始的 Planar texture，此變化為不可逆，出現的是不透明態的 Focal 
conic texture，此種結構造成光散射，其穿透率低。所以本實驗就是利用照射光場的與否以達到光控膽
固醇液晶在 Focal conic texture 與 Isotropic state 之間的相變化，此相變化為可逆且具重複性。 
 4
重複性，且其變化可以達到將近 90%的穿透率。 
. 計畫成果自評 
調控光控型液晶必須外加兩道不同波長的光場，一道為使液晶的結構產生變化，另
一道
建議 
感謝國科會工程處光電學門對此計劃的贊助，本計畫提出規劃是希望能連續執行三年，但是最後結果
發表論文 
本次獲得國科會一年期計畫的補助共發表了 3 I 文章，3 篇國外研討會文章，一篇國內研討
. Hsiao, V. K. S.; Chang, W.-T. “Optically switchable, polarization-independent holographic polymer 
2.  
 我們選擇在波長 850nm 下觀察光控型膽固醇液晶之光控行為的重複性，圖五顯示在三次交替開關
單一光場下，光控型膽固醇液晶產生的相變化具有
 
V
一般而言，要
主要加速其回復為原先結構，但假使將第二道光場去除，液晶回復的時間會變非常緩慢，而我們
開發出只利用單一光場就足以調控光控型膽固醇液晶，不必外加第二道光場，觀察量測出的樣本穿透
頻譜以及相圖變化，發現不但可以使其產生快速的相變化，而且在暗態與亮態相之間作可逆性的轉換，
另外在製作樣本過程中不需要任何液晶配向的技術，綜合上述結果，本實驗預期此實驗成果對於光控
型液晶在全光調控元件的應用上會有相當大的幫助。 
 
僅僅核定一年。因此本季畫執行內容僅止於利用單光子來操控液晶，對於雙光子以及表面電漿子對液
晶的效應，並沒有時間做研究；但是這一年來本研究團隊也展現出的充沛的研究成果及研究能量，在
此希望國科會能繼續協助本團隊的研究，核定多年期計畫，為台灣學術研究貢獻一份心力。 
 
篇國外 SC
會文章；截至目前也有投稿 2 篇國外 SCI 文章以及 4 篇國內研討會文章。如下所示: 
 
1
dispersed liquid crystal (H-PDLC) gratings.” Applied Physics B: Lasers and Optics, 100, 539-546 (2010). 
Z. Li, V. K. S. Hsiao, Z. Chen, J. Y. Tang, F. L. Zhao, H. Z. Wang, “Optically Tunable Fiber Bragg
Grating.” IEEE Photonics Technology Letters, 22, 1123-1125 (2010). 
IEEE PHOTONICS TECHNOLOGY LETTERS, VOL. 22, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2010 1123
Optically Tunable Fiber Bragg Grating
Z. Li, V. K. S. Hsiao, Z. Chen, J. Y. Tang, F. L. Zhao, and H. Z. Wang
Abstract—This work presents the photoinduced wavelength
shift of a side-polished fiber Bragg grating (SPFBG) with a
photoresponsive liquid crystal (LC) overlay. The reflection peak
wavelength of the SPFBG is tuned by refractive index (RI) mod-
ulation, which comes from the phase transition of the overlaid
photoresponsive LC under ultraviolet (UV) light irradiation. The
wavelength shift of 0.66 nm is observed with the UV light irradia-
tion density of 0.64 mW/mm . During the phase transition of the
photoresponsive LC, the increase of RI leads to the reflected Bragg
wavelength red-shift and the shift is reversible and repeatable. The
photoresponsive LC-overlaid SPFBG has potential applications
as an active filter in all-fiber telecommunication systems and
fiber-based light sensing devices
Index Terms—All-optical devices, fiber Bragg gratings (FBGs),
fiber optics and optical communication.
I. INTRODUCTION
W AVELENGTH-TUNABLE fiber devices have pre-sented many important applications in optical sensing
and gain spectrum shaping in erbium-doped fiber amplifiers in
optical fiber communication systems [1]. A fiber Bragg grating
(FBG) is a periodic perturbation of the refractive index (RI)
along the fiber length, which was first reported by Hill et al.
in 1978 [2], [3]. Tunable FBGs have been demonstrated as
an efficient way to control the spectral characteristics of light
wave propagation fabricated by modulating the structure and
RI within the optical fiber. An active tunable FBG is especially
useful when guiding light is transmitted dynamically or filtered
at certain specific wavelength. Up to now, several FBG tech-
niques have been established to select certain wavelengths or
even tune the bandwidth. These applications include mechan-
ical [4], electrical [5], magnetic [6], and optical [7] methods.
Side-polished fibers (SPFs) and side-polishing FBGs
(SPFBG) have attracted extensive attention [8]–[11] because
the evanescent field can be easily controlled by utilizing dif-
ferent overlaying materials [12], [13]. SPFs have been used in
a wide variety of fiber-optic components, such as fiber couplers
Manuscript received April 14, 2010; accepted April 25, 2010. First pub-
lished May 17, 2010; current version published July 09, 2010. This work was
supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NNSFC)
under Grant 10874250, Grant 10674183, Grant 60877044, and Grant 10776009
(NSAF), by the National 973 Project of China under Grant 2004CB719804,
by the National Science Council of Taiwan under Grant 98-2221-E-260-001,
and by the Ph.D. Degrees Foundation of Ministry of Education of China under
Grant 20060558068.
The authors are with the State Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Materials
and Technologies, Zhongshan (Sun Yat-Sen) University, Guangzhou 510275,
China, with the Department of Optoelectronic Engineering, Jinan University,
Guangzhou 510632, China, and also with the Department of Applied Materials
and Optoelectronic Engineering, National Chi Nan University, Nantou, 54561,
Taiwan (e-mail: stswhz@mail.sysu.edu.cn).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this letter are available online
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/LPT.2010.2049738
Fig. 1. Experimental setup for characterizing the Bragg wavelength shift of the
photoresponsive LC-overlaid SPFBG.
[14], [15], chemical sensors [16], and wavelength-tunable fiber
devices [17]–[19]. SPFBGs have also been regarded as an
effective means to detect hydrogen, magnetic field strength,
and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) [13], [20].
In this work, we present a realization of a photoinduced wave-
length shift of an FBG utilizing an SPFBG overlaid with a pho-
toresponsive liquid crystal (LC). The RI change caused by the
nematic-isotropic phase transition of the overlaid photorespon-
sive LC is generated by irradiation of ultraviolet (UV) light
and creates a repeatable and reversible shift of the Bragg wave-
length. The photoresponsive LC-overlaid SPFBG has potential
applications such as an active optical filter in a dense wave-
length-division-multiplexing (DWDM) system and fiber-based
light sensing devices.
II. EXPERIMENT
SPFBGs were fabricated by the wheel-polishing method
using a single-mode fiber (SMF) containing a section of an
FBG with a grating period of 526 nm [21]. The diameters of
fiber core and cladding are 8 and 125 m, respectively, and the
length of SPFBG polished area is 15 mm. The photoresponsive
LC is a homogeneous mixture of 80-wt% nematic LC (E-series
MDA-00-3461, , and at 20 C and
589 nm, Merck), for which the absorption is around 365 nm.
The thickness of the LC layer is about 20 m.
Fig. 1 shows the experimental setup for characterizing the
photoinduced Bragg wavelength shifting of the SPFBG over-
laid with the photoresponsive LC. An amplified spontaneous
emission (ASE) light source (WRI ASE-C-N) was used as the
input light source. The reflection spectrum was characterized by
an optical spectrum analyzer [(OSA) ANDO AQ6371C]. The
SPFBG was mechanically spliced using SMFs with an FC con-
nector. The UV light source (USHIO SP-7) at wavelength of
365 nm was used to induce the photoresponsive LC phase tran-
sition and the UV light density at the LC is 0.64 mW mm .
The Bragg wavelength shift was analyzed by comparing reflec-
tion spectra recorded by the OSA with a resolution of 10 pm. An
FBG sensor monitor (YOKOGAWA FB200) was used to mea-
sure the repeatability and reversibility of the Bragg wavelength
shift by manually blocking UV irradiation.
1041-1135/$26.00 © 2010 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: Jinan University. Downloaded on August 17,2010 at 01:22:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LI et al.: OPTICALLY TUNABLE FIBER BRAGG GRATING 1125
the LC phase from nematic to isotropic. With respect to the
propagating light, the RI of photoresponsive LC changes from
to [24], where is the RI of the LC in the isotropic phase,
as illustrated in Fig. 4(b). Since the order of RI of the LC is
[26], the RI increase of the photoresponsive LC
overlay results in the redshift of the SPFBG reflection spectrum.
When the UV light is OFF, the back isomerization process of
azobenzene moieties results the LC molecules reoriented to
align along the fiber axis and the photoresponsive LC returns to
the nematic phase. The LC RI decreases from to , and the
SPFBG reflection spectrum shifts back to the initial position.
The LC RI increases with the UV light density almost linearly
and will be saturated when the UV light is intense enough.
IV. CONCLUSION
This work presents a demonstration of a photoinduced Bragg
wavelength shift from a photoresponsive LC-overlaid SPFBG.
The wavelength shift is caused by a photoinduced phase transi-
tion generated by the trans-cis photoisomerization of an azoben-
zene-doped LC. Before the optical field stimulus, the photore-
sponsive LC is in the nematic phase. During UV light irradi-
ation, the formation of a cis-azobenzene LCs disrupts the ne-
matic host and generates the isotropic phase. The phase tran-
sition of the photoresponsive LC provides adequate modulation
of the surrounding RI, which shifts the reflected spectrum of the
SPFBG to a longer wavelength. The photoinduced Bragg wave-
length shift is repeatable and reversible. The photoresponsive
LC-overlaid SPFBG has potential applications such as an active
filter in an all-fiber telecommunication system and fiber-based
sensing devices.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors thank J. R. Waldeisen for assistance with the
preparation of this letter.
REFERENCES
[1] K. McCallion, G. Fawcett, and W. Johnstone, “Tunable in-line fiber-
optic bandpass filter,” Opt. Lett., vol. 19, pp. 542–544, 1994.
[2] K. O. Hill, Y. Fujii, D. C. Johnson, and B. S. Kawasaki, “Photosensi-
tivity in optical fiber waveguides: Application to reflection filter fabri-
cation,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 32, pp. 647–649, 1978.
[3] B. S. Kawasaki, K. O. Hill, D. C. Johnson, and Y. Fujii, “Narrow-band
Bragg reflectors in optical fibers,” Opt. Lett., vol. 3, pp. 66–68, 1978.
[4] C. J. S. de Matos, P. Torres, L. C. G. Valente, W. Margulis, and R.
Stubbe, “Fiber Bragg Grating (FBG) characterization and shaping by
local pressure,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 19, no. 8, pp. 1206–1209, Aug.
2001.
[5] K. Kalli, H. L. Dobb, D. J. Webb, K. Carroll, M. Komodromos, C.
Themistos, G. D. Peng, Q. Fang, and I. W. Boyd, “Electrically tunable
Bragg gratings in single-mode polymer optical fiber,” Opt. Lett., vol.
32, pp. 214–216, 2007.
[6] T. Liu, X. F. Chen, Z. Y. Di, J. F. Zhang, X. W. Li, and J. P. Chen,
“Tunable magneto-optical wavelength filter of long-period fiber grating
with magnetic fluids,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 91, p. 121116, 2007.
[7] Y. C. Lai, W. Zhang, L. Zhang, J. A. R. Williams, and I. Bennion,
“Optically tunable fiber grating transmission filters,” Opt. Lett., vol.
28, pp. 2446–2448, 2003.
[8] O. Parriaux, S. Gidon, and A. A. Kuznetsov, “Distributed coupling
on polished single-mode optical fibers,” Appl. Opt., vol. 20, pp.
2420–2423, 1981.
[9] M. J. F. Digonnet, J. R. Feth, L. F. Stokes, and H. J. Shaw, “Measure-
ment of the core proximity in polished fiber substrates and couplers,”
Opt. Lett., vol. 10, pp. 463–465, 1985.
[10] S. M. Tseng and C. L. Chen, “Side-polished fibers,” Appl. Opt., vol.
31, pp. 3438–3446, 1992.
[11] W. Ecke, K. SchrÖder, A. Andreev, R. Müller, and R. Willsch, “Op-
tical fiber grating sensor network for monitoring refractive index and
temperature distributions in fluids,” in Proc. SPIE, 1999, vol. 3783, pp.
176–176, DOI:10.1117/12.365735.
[12] K. McCallion, W. Johnstone, and G. Fawcett, “Tunable in-line fiber-
optic bandpass filter,” Opt. Lett., vol. 19, pp. 542–544, 1994.
[13] K. Schroeder, W. Ecke, and R. Willsch, “Optical fiber Bragg grating
hydrogen sensor based on evanescent-field interaction with palladium
thin-film transducer,” Opt. Lasers Eng., vol. 47, pp. 1018–1022, 2009.
[14] E. S. Goldburt and P. S. Russel, “Voltage-controlled pulsations of a
liquid-crystal fiber coupler,” Opt. Lett., vol. 11, pp. 51–52, 1986.
[15] Z. K. Loannidis, I. P. Giles, and C. Bowry, “All-fiber optic intensity
modulators using liquid crystals,” Appl. Opt., vol. 30, pp. 328–332,
1991.
[16] D. Flannery, S. W. James, R. P. Tatam, and G. J. Ashwell, “Fiber-optic
chemical sensing with Langmuir-Blodgett overlay waveguides,” Appl.
Opt., vol. 38, pp. 7370–7374, 1999.
[17] D. G. Moodie and W. Johnstone, “Wavelength tunability of compo-
nents based on the evanescent coupling from a side-polished fiber to
a high-index-overlay waveguide,” Opt. Lett., vol. 18, pp. 1025–1027,
1993.
[18] A. K. Das and A. K. Ganguly, “Precise control of the center wave-
length of a wavelength—Selective single-mode-fiber-thin-film direc-
tional coupler,” Appl. Opt., vol. 34, pp. 6911–6913, 1995.
[19] G. Raizada and B. P. Pal, “Refractometers and tunable components
based on side-polished fibers with multimode overlay waveguides:
Role of the superstrate,” Opt. Lett., vol. 21, pp. 399–401, 1996.
[20] H. S. Jang, K. N. Park, J. P. Kim, S. J. Sim, O. J. Kwon, Y. Han, and
K. S. Lee, “Sensitive DNA biosensor based on a long-period grating
formed on the side-polished fiber surface,” Opt. Express, vol. 17, pp.
3855–3860, 2009.
[21] Z. Chen and L. Liu, “Wavelength tuning of fiber Bragg grating based
on fiber side polishing,” in Proc. SPIE (Advanced Sensor Technologies
and Applications), 2009, vol. 7157, pp. 71570J/1–71570J/6.
[22] X. Zhang, Y. H. Xia, Y. Q. Huang, and X. M. Ren, “Analysis of shift in
Bragg wavelength of fiber Bragg gratings with finite cladding radius,”
Acta Photonica Sinica, vol. 32, pp. 222–224, 2003.
[23] D. W. Berreman, “Solid surface shape and the alignment of an adjacent
nematic liquid crystal,” Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 28, pp. 1683–1687, 1972.
[24] A. Shishido, O. Tsutsumi, A. Kanazawa, T. Shiono, T. Ikeda, and N.
Tamai, “Rapid optical switching by means of photoinduced change in
refractive index of azobenzene liquid crystal detected by reflection-
mode analysis,” J. Amer. Chen. Soc., vol. 119, pp. 7791–7794, 1997.
[25] A. Yamaguchi, N. Nakagawa, K. Igarashi, T. Sekikawa, H. Nishioka,
H. Asanuma, and M. Yamashita, “Photoisomerization dynamics study
on cis-azobenzene derivative using ultraviolet-to-visible tunable fem-
tosecond pulses,” Appl. Surface Sci., vol. 255, pp. 9864–9868, 2009.
[26] T. Ikeda, “Photomodulation of liquid crystal orientations for photonic
applications,” J. Mater. Chem., vol. 13, pp. 2037–2057, 2003.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Jinan University. Downloaded on August 17,2010 at 01:22:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
V.K.S. Hsiao, W.-T. Chang
tive index of the nematic LC host by a photo isomerization
process.
For the diffraction gratings fabricated by the H-PDLC
technique, the optical properties and the electro-optical
switching behavior of grating films generally depend on
the polarization of the incident light [36, 37]. Even though
the LC droplets form as nanoscale domains in the H-PDLC
grating, the coupled wave theory and experimental results
all indicate the existence of an axial like LC orientation
profile within the ellipsoidal LC droplets of preferred ori-
entation, which generates the polarization dependent dif-
fraction efficiency [38]. For example, the maximum dif-
fraction occurs with p-polarized incident light, whereas the
minimum diffraction occurs with s-polarized incident light.
Butler et al. [39] used the modified coupled wave theory
to explain the polarization-dependent property of LC com-
posite gratings by assuming that the LC orients along the
grating vector. Bunning et al. [11] directly proved the ex-
istence of ellipsoidal LC droplets residing in the polymer
areas by characterizing the surface morphology of H-PDLC
gratings. Thus, the electro-optical modulations of such grat-
ings are strongly affected by the polarization of the incident
light. Since the two forms of polarized light do not have the
same minimum diffraction, it is very difficult to achieve low
diffraction efficiency at certain applied fields using a non-
polarized incident light. The effect is exacerbated when op-
tical systems require non-polarized light at large Bragg an-
gles [6–8]. The polarization-dependent diffraction gratings
fabricated with the H-PDLC technique are caused by poly-
merization shrinkage during holographic patterning, which
creates compressed axial like LC droplets [40, 41].
This paper presents an innovative approach to fabricat-
ing an optically switchable H-PDLC transmission grating
with a diffraction efficiency that is independent of the po-
larization direction of incident light. The optical switch-
ing mechanism is a result of the trans-cis photoisomeriza-
tion of azo-LCs [42] that are doped into the nematic LC
host. The H-PDLC transmission gratings were fabricated by
adding the nematic LC/azo-LC mixture into the photopoly-
mer syrup. The optical properties of azo-LC doped H-PDLC
transmission gratings produce a polarization-dependent be-
havior that is commonly observed in gratings formed by the
typical H-PDLC formulation [11]. However, adding chiral
molecules to the azo-LC doped LC mixture to form an H-
PDLC grating significantly reduced the polarization depen-
dence of the H-PDLC grating. Through the model for the
behavior of the LC director in the LC droplet and based
on calculations from the modified coupled wave theory,
the polarization-independent grating can be attributed to the
non-axial LC structure within the LC droplets after the ad-
dition of chiral molecules to the H-PDLC system. Using a
new recipe for the azo-LC doped chiral-nematic LC mix-
ture, we successfully demonstrated an optically switchable,
polarization-independent H-PDLC transmission grating.
2 Experimental details
The recipe used for fabricating the optically switchable,
polarization-independent H-DPLC grating consisted of
60 wt% monomer (Dipentaerythritol hydroxypenta acry-
late, DPHPA), 1 wt% photoinitiator (Rose Bengal, RB),
2 wt% coinitiator (N-phenylglycine, NPG), 7 wt% N-vinyl-
pyrrolidinone (NVP) to dissolving the RB and NPG3 and
30 wt% azo-LC doped chiral-nematic LC, which was a ho-
mogeneous mixture of 10 wt% chiral molecules (ZLI811,
Merck), 5 wt% azo-LC (4-butyl-4′-methyl-azobenzene,
BMAB), and 85 wt% nematic LC (BL011, ne = 1.82, no =
1.54, nave,LC = 1/3ne + 2/3no = 1.63, Merck). A 514 nm
Ar+ laser was separated into two beams by a 60:40 beam
splitter and used to generate the photopolymerization within
the absorption band of the photoinitiator. Each beam was
collimated via a spatial filter containing a collimator to as-
sure coherency and a high optical quality of writing beams.
The writing power of the Ar+ laser was determined by real
time monitoring—recording the first-order (1st) diffraction
efficiency from the sample during holographic patterning.
A writing power of 150 mW cm−2, which could produce the
highest diffraction efficiency (DE) of grating samples, was
used in our work. The thickness of the sandwiched sample
was controlled by a 15 μm spacer and the grating area was
maintained at 10 × 10 mm2. The polarization properties of
the fabricated grating samples were characterized by a 1:500
polarized He–Ne laser at room temperature. The probe beam
polarization was modulated by a polarization beam splitter
and a half wave plate to obtain a pure p-polarized (in the
diffraction plane) or s-polarized (perpendicular to the dif-
fraction plane) beam. The DE (η) was calculated from the
ratio between the diffracted and transmitted intensities, as
measured by a photodiode. The optically controlled behav-
ior of the grating samples was obtained by measuring the
diffracted and transmitted light intensities under violet laser
(405 nm, Nichia) irradiation at different powers.
3 Results and discussion
3.1 Angular dependent DE and Kogelnik’s coupled wave
theory
Figure 1a shows the angular dependence of the DE for p-
polarized (dark square) and s-polarized (red circle) light us-
ing a He–Ne laser as probe. The measured DE is 0.95 for
p-polarization and 0.43 for s-polarization at a Bragg angle
of 12°. Different values of the peak DE at different polar-
izations illustrates the formation of uniaxial LC orientation
within the droplets [43]. The observation of polarization-
dependent DE may be attributed to polymerization shrink-
age during holographic photopatterning upon the high ex-
posure intensity [44] (150 mW cm−2) used here. Kogelnik’s
V.K.S. Hsiao, W.-T. Chang
Fig. 2 The transmission and diffraction intensity of grating samples
as a function of the polarization angle of a linearly polarized He–Ne
laser. The grating samples were fabricated (a) without and (b) with
added chiral molecules in the prepolymer syrup
Table 1 Experimental diffraction efficiency of grating without and
with chiral molecules for p-polarization (ηp) and s-polarization (ηs )
and the theoretically calculated dielectric tensor modulation at given
diffraction efficiency
Sample composition ηp ηs ε1xx ε1zz
H-PDLC grating 0.95 0.43 0.085 0.029
without chiral molecule
H-PDLC grating 0.62 0.64 0.043 0.038
with chiral molecule
the droplets. However, in the sample with added chiral mole-
cules, the value of ε1xx is about the same as that of ε1xx—the
ratio ε1xx/ε1zz ∼ 1 indicates the uniform distribution of LC
directors within droplets.
3.3 Effect of light polarization
Figure 2a shows the diffracted and transmitted intensity of a
grating sample without chiral molecules, dependent on the
polarization of incident light. The optical measurement was
conducted at a fixed sample position and the polarization
of the incident light was altered by rotating the polarization
Fig. 3 The transmission intensity of an LC cell as a function of the
polarization angle of a linearly polarized He–Ne laser. The LC cell
consisted of nematic LC/azobenzene-LC (a) without and (b) with dop-
ing with chiral molecules in the LC. The cell gap was controlled at
15 μm without alignment
angle from a half-wave plate. p-polarized light could be ob-
tained by rotating the polarization angle to −90°, 0°, and
90°, while s-polarized light could be obtained by rotating
the polarization angle to −45° and 45°. The maximum dif-
fracted intensity of the grating sample was observed when
using pure p-polarized light as the incident light, indicating
that the long axis of the LC droplets are orientated parallel to
the grating plane [43, 46]. The diffracted intensity decreased
when the polarization of the incident light changed from
p to s by rotating the polarization angle of the half-wave
plate. Polarization-dependent diffraction has been observed
in H-PDLC gratings due to the anisotropic shape of the LC
droplets formed by the uniaxial LC orientation. However,
we dramatically reduced the polarization-dependent nature
of H-PDLC gratings by simply adding chiral molecules into
the H-PDLC formulation. Figure 2b shows the diffracted in-
tensity of the sample, which remains almost constant as the
polarization of the incident beam changes.
We observed the same polarization-independent behav-
ior from LC cells containing chiral molecules. Figure 3
shows the transmitted intensity of LC cells as the func-
tion of polarization angle. The results are the same as
V.K.S. Hsiao, W.-T. Chang
Fig. 5 Dynamic measurement of diffraction intensity of an optically
switchable H-PDLC transmission grating corresponding to the on-off
irradiation of an optical field (1 mW)
ization of the azo-LC disrupts the nematic LC orientation,
transforming it from nematic to isotropic [34]. Before ir-
radiation by an external optical field, the RI mismatch be-
tween LC rich and polymer rich regions generates the dif-
fraction efficiency of the H-PDLC sample. After irradia-
tion by an external optical field, the changes in LC orienta-
tion reduce the index difference between the grating planes
and the diffraction efficiency of the H-PDLC sample de-
creases [32]. The addition of chiral molecules enables the
formation of polarization independence, as shown in Fig. 4c
and 4d. Both p-polarized and s-polarized light could be
tuned by varying the irradiation of the external optical field
in the azo-LC doped H-PDLC grating sample with added
chiral molecules. We observed a small tuning of diffrac-
tion efficiency (∼4%) in the optical field of ∼1 mW in our
optically switchable H-PDLC gratings. A higher concen-
tration of nematic LC and smaller grating spacing, which
facilitates the phase separation of the LCs, and the addi-
tion of surfactant should help improve the switching effi-
ciency of H-PDLC gratings [11]. The switching response
of an all optically switchable, polarization-independent H-
PDLC grating is shown in Fig. 5. The response time for the
on and off states of the optical field was 30 s and 7 min,
respectively. The slow response time is attributed to the
strong anchoring and thermal releasing effects in the im-
perfectly phase-separated LC within the nanoscale LC do-
mains [32].
3.5 Photoresponsive LC phase transition and dielectric
tensor modulation
Figure 6 shows the schematic of the phase transition of
LC directors within the droplets. Before applying the opti-
cal field, for the H-DPLC grating without chiral molecules,
Fig. 6 Schematic of LC phase transition upon the irradiation with op-
tical energy at a different starting LC phase
the uniaxial LC directors are formed due to the polymer-
ization shrinkage during holographic patterning. The dif-
fraction efficiency is dependent on the polarization of light
because of the unequal contribution of RI of LC directors
in different directions. Under the irradiation of an optical
field, the optical tuning diffraction efficiency of the grating
is due to the phase change from nematic to isotropic. The
cis-form of the azo-LC disrupts the nematic LC droplets
and changes the RI in the LC areas. For the H-DPLC
grating with chiral molecules, which destroy the uniaxial
LC directors, under the irradiation of the optical field, the
generation of the cis-form of the azo-LC changes the LC
phase from chiral-nematic to isotropic [20]. The forma-
tion of an isotropic phase in the LC areas reduces the in-
dex difference between the LC rich and polymer rich ar-
eas. Thus, the grating diffraction decreases for both polar-
izations.
Under perfect conditions, even though the RI modu-
lation in the p-polarization is larger compared to the s-
polarization, the nematic to isotropic phase transition should
contribute to the RI modulation in both p-polarized and s-
polarized light. However, we observed no RI for s-polarized
light in the H-PDLC grating without chiral molecules. Since
the anisotropic LC droplet was preferred in the H-PDLC
grating without chiral molecules, a small change in the
DE results in a larger RI for p-polarization than for s-
polarization (Fig. 7a). In the case of the H-PDLC grating
with chiral molecules, the uniaxial LC directors are de-
stroyed by the chiral molecules. The LC directors in the ne-
matic phase transform into the chiral-nematic phase. Since
the isotropic LC droplet was preferred in the H-PDLC grat-
ing with chiral molecules, a small change in DE makes
the same change in RI for p-polarization and s-polarization
(Fig. 7b).
V.K.S. Hsiao, W.-T. Chang
32. Y.J. Liu, Y.B. Zheng, J. Shi, H. Huang, T.R. Walker, T.J. Huang,
Opt. Lett. 34, 2351 (2009)
33. L. De Sio, A. Veltri, C. Umeton, S. Serak, N. Tabiryan, Appl. Phys.
Lett. 93, 181115 (2008)
34. U.A. Hrozhyk, S.V. Serak, N.V. Tabiryan, T.J. Bunning, Adv.
Mater. 19, 3244 (2007)
35. U.A. Hrozhyk, S.V. Serak, N.V. Tabiryan, T.J. Bunning, Adv.
Funct. Mater. 17, 1735 (2007)
36. R.L. Sutherland, L.V. Natarajan, V.P. Tondiglia, S. Chandra, C.K.
Shepherd, D.M. Brandelik, S.A. Siwecki, T.J. Bunning, J. Opt.
Soc. Am. B, Opt. Phys. 19, 3004 (2002)
37. A. Ogiwara, H. Kakiuchida, M. Tazawa, H. Ono, J. Appl. Phys.
46, 7341 (2007)
38. V.P. Tondiglia, R.L. Sutherland, L.V. Natarajan, P.F. Lloyd, T.J.
Bunning, Opt. Lett. 33, 1890 (2008)
39. J.J. Butler, M.S. Malcuit, Opt. Lett. 6, 420 (2000)
40. J. Qi, M. DeSarkar, G.T. Warran, G.P. Crawford, J. Appl. Phys.
91, 4795 (2002)
41. L.V. Natarajan, C.K. Sphepherd, D.M. Brandelik, R.L. Sutherland,
S. Chandra, V.P. Tondiglia, D.T. Tomlin, T.J. Bunning, Chem.
Mater. 15, 2477 (2003)
42. T. Ikeda, J. Mater. Chem. 13, 2037 (2003)
43. M. Jazbinsek, J. Drevensek Olenik, M. Zgonik, A.K. Fontecchio,
G.P. Crawford, J. Appl. Phys. 90, 3831 (2001)
44. Y.J. Liu, X. W Sun, J.H. Liu, H.T. Dai, K.S. Xu, Appl. Phys. Lett.
86, 041115 (2005)
45. H. Kogelnik, Bell Syst. Tech. J. 48, 2909 (1969)
46. M.E. Holmes, M.S. Malcuit, Phys. Rev. E 65, 066603 (2002)
47. H. Ren, Y. Lin, Y. Fan, S. Wu, Appl. Phys. Lett. 86, 141110 (2005)
48. Y. Lin, H. Ren, Y. Fan, Y. Wu, S. Wu, J. Appl. Phys. 98, 043112
(2005)
developed a phase separation systemwhere the nematic li-
quid crystal (LC) droplets were spontaneously phase sepa-
rated within the solid polymers during the
photopolymerization process [1]. In addition, they showed
that the LC droplet size, and the electro-optical switching
ability, of the polymer/LC composite can be modiﬁed by
varying the LC concentration [1,2]. Because of the large
dielectric anisotropy and optical birefringence of the incor-
porated nematic LC in the composite, the optical state of
the PDLC ﬁlm could be switched ‘‘on” and ‘‘off” by applying
an electric ﬁeld [3]. Subsequently, Bunning and coworkers
combined the optical holographic technique and PDLC
materials to produce holographic polymer dispersed liquid
crystals (H-PDLCs) materials to fabricate transmission or
reﬂection gratings in a single step process [4–6]. H-PDLCs
have potential application in display systems, electro-opti-
cal ﬁlters, free space optical switches, and photonic crystal
switchable lasers [7–14]. In the standard H-PDLC system
used for electrically switchable gratings, the pre-polymer
mixture contains a photoinitiator/coinitiator, monomer,
and LC. The mixture is dispensed in between two conduc-
tive glass slides and exposed to holographic interference
patterning. The interference pattern created by two or
more coincidently coherent laser beams creates bright
and dark fringes. As previously documented, the monomer
is polymerized to the greatest extent in the bright regions.
The spatially varying polymerization kinetics results in
chemical potential gradients for both reactive and non-
reactive species that cause monomer to diffuse from the
dark regions to the light regions and non-reactive compo-
nents, such as the LC, to diffuse from the light regions to
the dark regions. Similar to PDLCs, H-PDLCs exhibit poly-
merization-induced phase separation typiﬁed in a mor-
phology consisting of alternating periods of polymer and
LC, with the LC embedded as small droplets in the dark re-
gions. At a controlled thickness for the grating ﬁlm, the
efﬁciency of these holographically written polymeric grat-
ings is determined by the refractive index mismatch be-
tween the polymer-rich and the LC-rich regions. The
shape and the amount of phase-separated LC droplets
determine the electro-optic performance of gratings [15–
18].
Recently we have demonstrated a nanoporous polymer
reﬂection grating with high efﬁciency and broad reﬂection
bandwidth that is produced when a non-reactive solvent is
mixed into the standard H-PDLC system [19]. In contrast to
the standard H-PDLC system, where the index contrast
comes from the difference between polymer (npoly-
mer  1.5) and LC (nLC  1.63), this passive grating (modi-
ﬁed H-PDLC) with high optical performance is based on
the high index contrast between the polymer (npoly-
mer  1.5) and air voids (nvoid = 1). The non-reactive solvent
mixed in the pre-polymer mixtures is phase-separated
from the polymer during the holographic writing. Subse-
quent evaporation of the patterned non-reactive solvent
from the ﬁlm, after holographic fabrication, leads to the
development of highly reﬂective gratings. The resulting
periodic nanoporous polymer structure has been demon-
strated to be useful in sensing applications where they
provide distinct advantages due to the large surface-
to-volume ratio and high optical performance [20–23].
While the techniques used to form the standard H-PDLC
and the modiﬁed H-PDLC are the same, the time scales for
formation of highly reﬂective gratings are dramatically dif-
ferent. In the modiﬁed H-PDLC containing non-reactive
solvents, high diffraction efﬁciency gratings are observed
only if either the pre-polymer mixture is exposed to (1)
holographic exposure exceeding 10 min or (2) short holo-
graphic exposure (30 s) followed by post-cure under
homogeneous light for >30 min. This is in direct contrast
to the standard H-PDLC system where the grating efﬁ-
ciency reaches a maximum within a minute [24,25]. Extra
writing or post-curing time in the traditional H-PDLC sys-
tem typically decreases the efﬁciency [24–28].
We present herein an examination of the grating forma-
tion both temporally and as a function of LC concentration
for the modiﬁed H-PDLC which incorporates a non-reactive
solvent. This information is supplementedwith correspond-
ing analysis of the polymerization kinetics andmorphology.
The kinetics of the polymerization process were examined
by monitoring the polymerization rate and double bond
conversion with real-time infrared spectroscopy (RTIR)
[29,30] during holographic exposure. RTIR spectroscopy
has previously proved a useful tool to study photopolymer-
ization kinetics and the contribution of each component in
theH-PDLC system. Together, the analysis is used topropose
a model to describe the formation of the periodically ar-
ranged nanopores between the layered polymeric planes
generated from the modiﬁed H-PDLC system.
2. Experimental
The pre-polymer mixture used here consisted of ﬁxed 1
weight percentage (wt.%) photoinitiator (Rose Bengal,
Spectra Group Limited), 3 wt.% coinitiator (N-phenylgly-
cine, Aldrich), and 10 wt.% solubilizing monomer (NVP, Al-
drich) [19]. The concentration of acrylate monomer
(dipentaerythritol hydroxypentaacrylate, Aldrich), liquid
crystal (TL213, n0 = 1.527, ne = 1.766, EM Industries,
Merck), and non-reactive solvent (acetone, Aldrich) are
varied as speciﬁed in the remainder of this article and
the ﬁgures. All chemical materials were used as received
without further puriﬁcation and the mixtures were
homogenized to solutions by using a mixer and sonicator
before sample preparation. Samples were prepared by
sandwiching 15 lL of the pre-polymer mixture (containing
a small amount of 5 lm glass rods as spacers) between two
glass slides. The enclosed sample was subsequently ex-
posed to the holographic interference patterning using a
single laser beam and a prism [31]. The Ar+ laser, operating
at 514 nm with 100 mW exposure power, had a ﬁxed
exposure time of 30 s for the ﬁrst holographic writing pro-
cess. Then the sandwiched sample was either kept under
the holographic writing for an additional length of time
or post-cured with a 75W white light source with a tung-
sten lamp for different lengths of times. After full exposure
and/or curing the sandwiched sample was opened using a
blade. To maintain the whole piece of polymer ﬁlm the
gold-coated glass slide was used as the top plate and the
ﬁlm was situated at the bottom plate. The acetone was
completely evaporated after 5 min.
938 V.K.S. Hsiao et al. / European Polymer Journal 46 (2010) 937–943
M
A
CR
O
M
O
LE
CU
LA
R
N
A
N
O
TE
CH
N
O
LO
G
Y
evaporate. As in Fig. 1, the diffraction efﬁciency of the
reﬂection notch increases with exposure time while the
notch position red shifts. As evident from Fig. 2, 60 min
of post-cure with homogenous light creates a reﬂection
grating with higher efﬁciency (70%) and increased band-
width (50 nm). It is evident in both Figs. 1 and 2 that incor-
porating the non-reactive solvent into the standard H-
PDLC system increases the time needed for obtaining a
reﬂection grating with high efﬁciency. The efﬁciency of
grating samples fabricated by the standard H-PDLC system
reaches a maximum in one minute [26], and further holo-
graphic writing or post-curing does not enhance the grat-
ing efﬁciency. However, the efﬁciency of the grating
samples fabricated by the modiﬁed H-PDLC system con-
taining additional non-reactive solvents continues to in-
crease with longer holographic writing or post-curing
time. In the case of post-curing, the reﬂection efﬁciency
reaches a steady maximum value (80%) after 24 h post-
curing time.
Comparing Figs. 1 and 2, the initial stage of phase sep-
aration in the holographic writing or homogeneous post-
cure is fundamentally the same in these two cases. The
red shift of the Bragg wavelength (kBragg ¼ 2naveK) indicates
that the effective grating spacing (K) continues to increase
with longer holographic writing or homogeneous post-cur-
ing in samples with the same composition (ﬁxed average
refractive index, nave). This red shift of the Bragg wave-
length shows that the phase-separation induced growth
of the polymer remains active during subsequent holo-
graphic writing and homogeneous post-curing. In addition,
there is an intermediate state between a slight phase sep-
aration and a better separation. The samples in Fig. 1
(curve of 10 min) and Fig. 2 (curve of 30 min) all indicate
such a state since low transmittance of the polymer ﬁlm
is observed in those two samples. We speculate that the
scattering in those samples is due to incomplete phase sep-
aration of the LC/non-reactive solvent during the short
holographic writing time and homogeneous post-curing
time.
It is noteworthy that the photopolymerization-induced
phase separation still occurs even though the grating sam-
ple is exposed to homogeneous post-curing instead of con-
tinuous holographic writing. In the standard H-PDLC
system, longer times for holographic writing or post-cure
do not enhance the grating efﬁciency, and the photopoly-
merization stops almost immediately after the brief period
of holographic writing [24,25]. To further understand the
inﬂuence of the non-reactive solvent on photopolymeriza-
tion kinetics during grating structure formation, acrylate
conversion was examined in the samples fabricated by
standard and by modiﬁed H-PDLC systems using RTIR
spectroscopy. Fig. 3, a plot of the percent acrylate conver-
sion versus time, shows that the H-PDLC formulations con-
taining the non-reactive solvent exhibited greater acrylate
double bond conversion. Adding 20 wt.% non-reactive sol-
vent increases the acrylate double bond conversion from
around 45% in the standard H-PDLC formulation to up-
wards of 60% in the modiﬁed H-PDLC system. The addition
of the non-reactive solvent in the pre-polymer mixture in-
creases the rate of photopolymerization, evident by the ini-
tial slope of the conversion versus time plots (Fig. 3). The
inﬂuence of the non-reactive solvent on the double bond
conversion and polymerization rate is attributed to the
plasticization of the densely cross-linked polymer
network. Adding solvent increases the non-reactive free
volume of the polymerizing system. Increasing the non-
reactive free volume in such a diffusion-limited reaction
environment is conducive to greater monomer mobility,
thereby increasing double bond conversion and the poly-
merization rate in the formation of plastic materials.
The addition of the non-reactive solvent is also inﬂuen-
tial during the homogeneous post-curing process. The per-
centage of acrylate conversion is plotted against post-cure
time in Fig. 4. In this comparison, the reﬂection gratings
from the modiﬁed H-PDLC formulation and the standard
H-PDLC formulation were written between NaCl slides.
The homogeneous post-cure of these gratings was subse-
Fig. 3. Dynamic observation of acrylate conversion during homogenous
exposure of the H-PDLC formulations. The solid line is recorded from
the standard H-PDLC mixture while the dash line is from the modiﬁed
H-DPLC mixture containing non-reactive solvent. (Standard H-PDLC
mixture LC:Monomer = 20 wt.%:66 wt.%; Modiﬁed H-PDLC mixture
Acetone:LC:Monomer = 20 wt.%:20 wt.%:46 wt.%.)
Fig. 4. Dynamic observation of acrylate conversion as a function of
homogeneous post-cure time. (Standard H-PDLC mixture LC:Monomer =
20 wt.%:66 wt.%; Modiﬁed H-PDLC mixture Acetone:LC:Monomer =
20 wt.%:20 wt.%:46 wt.%).
940 V.K.S. Hsiao et al. / European Polymer Journal 46 (2010) 937–943
M
A
CR
O
M
O
LE
CU
LA
R
N
A
N
O
TE
CH
N
O
LO
G
Y
mobility of the polymer network, this process will be
aided. The process essentially stops after 60 min homoge-
neous post-cure and nicely phase-separated void lamella
can be observed through evaporating the non-reactive sol-
vent by opening the sandwiched sample.
In the standard H-PDLC grating no refractive index con-
trast could be observed for an LC concentration of 18 wt.%
[6], but in the modiﬁed H-PDLC system a reﬂection grating
of high optical performance with 70% reﬂectivity and
40 nm reﬂection bandwidth could be fabricated with a
pre-polymer containing only 3 wt.% LC (Fig. 7 curve (b)).
Upon increasing the concentration of the LC, the spectral re-
sponse of the Bragg wavelength (kBragg) shifts to a longer
wavelength and the reﬂection bandwidth increases consid-
erably. The baseline transmittance at wavelengths outside
the notch is also considerably lower, which implies more
scattering in the grating structurewith higher LC concentra-
tion. To understand the red shift of kBragg and increased
reﬂective bandwidth with increasing LC concentration, we
examined the cross-sectional morphology of grating sam-
ples using BFTEM, which is commonly used to observe the
microstructure of reﬂection gratings fabricated by a stan-
dard H-PDLC system [6]. Fig. 8 is the cross-sectional BFTEM
micrographof grating samples, clearly showing that the size
of voids (white regions) increases with increasing LC con-
centration in the pre-polymer mixture. The morphology of
a sample that contains 3 wt.% LC shows a slightly two-phase
structure (Fig. 8a) and as the LC concentration increases,
much larger voids and wider void-rich lamellae (50–
60 nm) periodically separated by a polymer-rich region are
observed (Fig. 8b). As the voids become larger, the cross-
linked polymers in the void-rich region develop a bead-like
structure. These void-rich regions are composed of discrete,
spherical droplets with a small amount of polymer bridging
the voids without the sample collapsing. The sample with a
high concentration LChas a bicontinuousmorphology in the
void-rich regions and some phase-separated droplets in the
Fig. 6. The formation of wide-reﬂection bandgap holographic gratings
fabricated using the modiﬁed H-PDLC system.
Fig. 7. The transmission spectra of the reﬂection gratings of (a) 0 wt.%, (b)
3 wt.%, (c) 20 wt.% and (d) 30 wt.% LC concentration in the pre-polymer
mixture of ﬁxing 20 wt.% acetone concentration and varying monomer
concentration.
Fig. 8. BFTEM micrographs of the cross-sectional fracture surface of the
reﬂection gratings formed using (a) 3 wt.%, (b) 20 wt.%. LC concentrations
in the pre-polymer mixture.
942 V.K.S. Hsiao et al. / European Polymer Journal 46 (2010) 937–943
M
A
CR
O
M
O
LE
CU
LA
R
N
A
N
O
TE
CH
N
O
LO
G
Y
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99 年 10 月 7 日 
計畫編號 NSC 98 －2221－ E － 260 － 001 － 
計畫名稱 雙光子吸收及電漿子共振效應來操控液晶的相轉換和光控液晶的全光調
變性質之研究 
出國人員
姓名 張維庭 
服務機構
及職稱 國立暨南國際大學  
會議時間 
98 年 11 月 30 日
至 
98 年 12 月 4 日 
會議地點 美國波士頓 
會議名稱 
(中文) 材料研討年會-秋季會議 
(英文) Materials Research Symposium (MRS)-Fall Meeting  
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 利用乳膠輔助全像法製作周期排列之多孔高分子結構 
( 英 文 ) Nanoporous Polymeric Periodic Structures Fabricated by 
Emulsion-assisted Holographic Patterning 
一、參加會議經過 
美國材料學會(MRS)每年都會舉辦兩場國際性的大型研討會，分別是春季會議與秋季會議，而這一年
兩次的研討會皆是相當重要且受矚目的會議，同時會議中也會呈現出非常大量且品質也因嚴格的審查
制度而具有相當的學術研究參考價值的學術論文；我們所參加的是在 2009 年 11 月 30 日到 12 月 4 日
在波士頓所舉行的秋季會議，在此次的會議中，主辦單位安排了六大項的主題： 
z Information Processing and Sensing 
z Nanoscience and Technology 
z Energy and the Environment 
z Soft Matter, Biological and Bio-Inspired Materials 
z Health and Biological Materials 
z General Interest 
這六個主題又細分為 51 類的研究類型，每一類型皆有數場演講、二十幾場的口頭報告以及上百張的論
文海報，而我們所發表的論文題目 “Nanoporous Polymeric Periodic Structures Fabricated by 
Emulsion-assisted Holographic Patterning ”是分類在”Nanoscale Pattern Formation”，展示於 12 月 2 日 20
時到 22 時。 
 
 1
Nanoporous Polymeric Periodic Structures Fabricated by Emulsion-assisted Holographic 
Patterning 
 
Vincent K.S. Hsiao1 and Wei-Ting Chang2 
1Department of Applied Materials and Optoelectronic Engineering, National Chi Nan University 
No 1, University Rd. Puli, Nantou Hsien, 54561, Taiwan  
2Department of Applied Chemistry, National Chi Nan University 
No 1, University Rd. Puli, Nantou Hsien, 54561, Taiwan  
 
ABSTRACT 
 
We report a new technique of creating a nanoporous polymeric nanostructure by photo-
patterning emulsions generated from a formamide (polar phase) and an acrylate-monomer 
(nonpolar phase). Formamide is a highly polar solvent that forms well dispersed, non-aqueous 
emulsion droplets within the monomer-containing nonpolar phase before holographic patterning. 
Photochemically initiated polymerization of the nonpolar phase (acrylate monomer) forces the 
formation of ordered formamide emulsions defined by the holographic interference. Evaporation 
of the formamide from the ordered structure yields a periodic structure with high optical 
reflectivity and a wide reflection bandwidth. The average size and the size distribution of 
formamide droplets in the photopolymer fluid must be controlled to fabricate a periodic structure 
with high reflectivity. Furthermore, we found that the addition of sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate 
(AOT) surfactant helps to stabilize the formamide emulsion which further facilitates the 
formation of the ordered nanopores with uniform size.  
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
The nature of emulsion (oil and water dispersions) which generates the micro- or nano- 
micelles depends on the solubility of “water” in “oil” or vice versa. With suitable surfactant or 
detergent, “microemulsion” dispersion may be well stabilized in the non-aqueous mixture [1]. 
The colloidal self-assembling of opal or inverse-opal structure has shown a very promising way 
to generate ordered structure, such as photonic crystal (PC). Photonic crystal needs a periodic 
modulation of dielectric constant that creates a stop bandwidth in which certain wavelength of 
photon is “trapped” inside the periodic structure while others are passed out.  
In the system of holographic photopolymerization the first demonstration was the pure 
photopolymer (monomer) as a starting material to produce periodic index modulation [2]. Later 
with adding the non-reactive fluid, liquid crystal (LC), into monomer syrup the applications of 
the periodic structure were extended. The phase separation between the photopolymer and LC 
generates LC/polymer lamella that the period can be controlled by the holographic interference 
patterning.  The fabrication process is well known as the holographic polymer dispersed liquid 
crystal (H-PDLC) technique [3]. One-step, large area and simple fabrication in the formation of 
one dimensional (1D) periodic structure or Bragg reflection grating can be achieved. The index 
modulation between each layer is the result of the index difference between LC (nave=1.61) and 
polymer (nave=1.51). Since the LC is not well dissolved in the monomer syrup, the LC droplets 
can be easily generated and patterned by H-PDLC technique. Recently we have demostrated a 
1D periodic structure of reflection grating with high efficiency and wide reflection bandwidth. 
The periodic structure of high optical performance is due to high index contrast (∆n=0.2) 
Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. Vol. 1228 © 2010 Materials Research Society 1228-KK11-02
514 nm Ar ion laser
spatial filter
concave lens mirror
θ Prism
Photopolymer fluid
Formamide I0
I1
(B)
Formamide Acrylate monomer/NVP
hydrophobichydrophilic
(A)
 
Figure 1. (A) The sandwiched sample is prepared by mixing formamide and photopolymer 
fluids. The mixture is sandwiched between two parallel glass slides for holographic lithography. 
The single-beam optical setup generates the holographic interference from the incident and 
totally internally reflected beams. (B) Formamide emulsions are phase separated in the low 
intensity region while monomer becomes polymer in the high intensity region during the 
holographic patterning. The layer by layer void and polymer periodic structure is created after 
formamide evaporates. 
 
 
Figure 2. The normal transmissivity of the sample on a glass substrate holographically fabricated 
from a photopolymer fluid containing toluene, acetone, ethylene glycol, or formamide. The 
dielectric constant of those solvents is 2.4, 20.7, 38.7 and 109 respectively. The concentrations of 
NVP and the solvent were 15 wt% and 30 wt%, respectively.  

無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
