行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
計畫名稱：以 WiMax 為接取技術之 IMS 網路架設、協定跨層設計及
其效能分析
Construction, Cross Layer Protocol Design and Its Performance
Analysis of WiMax-based IMS Networks
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-008-033
accepted and to be appear at International Journal of Wireless Communications and
Networking (IJWCN), 2009
計畫主持人：國立中央大學 通訊工程學系 陳彥文
ABSTRACT
WiMAX Forum has specified ASN (Access Service Network) anchored mobility management
and CSN (Connectivity Service Network) anchored mobility management, to support
inter-ASN handover. To provide efficient handover (HO) of end to end connections, this paper
integrates the hierarchical mobile IPv6 (HMIPv6) into the original WiMAX mobility
management procedures. This research adopts the anchor point concept for mobility control
at layer 2 and 3, and studies anchor point arrangement to enable a more efficient mobility
procedure. Regarding the cross layer point of view, the mobility anchor point (MAP) of
HMIPv6 can be collocated either with the ASN gateway or CSN. This paper conducts in-depth
analysis of the message sequence flows for integrating the above scenarios. The current
investigation also performs quantitative comparisons, in terms of control messages overhead
and handover delay. Analytical results show that ASN anchored mobility has the lowest
handoff delay at the cost of establishing and maintaining extra data paths. This work then
further presents and analyzes the service area concept. Simulation results show that service
area size increases with handover latency. Considering the tradeoff between handover latency
and network burden, the HMIPv6 MAP in CSN could be a better solution.
Keywords: WiMAX, handover, mobility, HMIPv
1. INTRODUCTION
The mobile broadband wireless access (BWA) network
has gained much attention as a last mile candidate for
delivering multimedia services. Recently, IEEE has
introduced the WiMAX-related technology. The IEEE
802.16e-2005 standard [1], as an amendment to the
802.16-2004 standard [2], presents the physical layer
and Medium Access Control (MAC) radio specification
for combined fixed and mobile WiMAX operation.
Then, the Network Working Group (NWG) of WiMAX
Forum specifies the end-to-end interoperable WiMAX
network architecture [3, 4]. One of the important
features of WiMAX is the ability of supporting
mobility. Achieving this goal requires an efficient
handover (HO) management. Handover is the process
of maintaining the service connection of a mobile
terminal as it changes its point of attachment to the
access network. In addition to providing layer-2
handover (L2HO) for link access, layer-3 handover
(L3HO) is required for maintaining end to end
connection. The L2HO only changes the access
interface attachment point (e.g. air) but keeps the IP
attachment point unchanged. On the other hand, L3HO
changes the IP subnet of a mobile user. During L3HO,
the mobile user must re-register with HA and bind with
a correspondent node, typically causing large handoff
latency and high packet loss compared with L2HO.
The WiMAX Forum has presented ASN anchored
mobility and CSN anchored mobility to process
handovers between different ASNs (inter-ASN). For
network layer handover, the Forum suggests mobile
IPv4 and mobile IPv6 proposed by IETF [5] [6] as the
mobility management protocol. However, if a mobile
node (MN) moves frequently, it will become inefficient
owing to long handover delay and excessive signaling
overhead. Similar to the anchoring concept adopted in
WiMAX, the HMIPv6 defines the mobility anchor
point (MAP) to reduce handover overhead.
Considering mobility architecture by co-llocating the
anchor points of both layers, this paper discusses two
basic architectures, enhanced HMIPv6 MAP in
ASN-GW and enhanced HMIPv6 MAP in CSN.
The remainder of this paper is organized as
follows. Section 2 overviews the WiMAX network
architecture. Section 3 reviews the handover related
The WiMAX network architecture, proposed in [3] [4],
supports two types of mobility: ASN anchored mobility
and CSN anchored mobility. The ASN anchored
mobility has three kinds of scenarios, R4, R6 and R8
mobility. The R4 ASN anchored mobility is referred to
as inter-ASN mobility, while R6 and R8 mobility are
assumed as occurring within the intra-ASN domain.
The CSN-anchored mobility is also referred to as R3
re-anchoring because it involves access router (AR)
migration. This mobility belongs to inter-ASN mobility
obviously. Figure 2 depicts the handover scenarios
supported in WiMAX. This paper focuses on
discussing inter-ASN mobility rather than the
intra-ASN handover, which is discussed in more detail
respectively in the following.
Figure 2: WiMAX Mobility Scenario
ASN anchored mobility management refers to
procedures associated with mobile node (MN)
movement between two base stations (BS). The target
BS may belong to the same ASN or a different one,
without changing the traffic anchor point for the MS in
the serving (here it is like an “anchor”) ASN. In other 
words, ASN anchored mobility is mobility within the
area of one or more ASNs without AR relocation
(without R3 change). The main characteristic of ASN
anchored mobility is that the existing path between the
correspondent node and the ASN does not need to be
reestablished during movement. This type of mobility
includes intra-ASN mobility, e.g.  and inter-ASN
mobility, e.g.  in Figure 2. Typically, intra-ASN
mobility will not introduce layer 3 mobility, therefore
this paper only considers integrating inter-ASN
mobility with Mobile IP.
CSN-anchored mobility management refers to the
procedures for changing the traffic anchor point for the
MS from one ASN anchor point to another one without
changing the CSN anchor as shown in  of Figure 2.
The WiMAX network architecture supports both IPv4
and IPv6. CSN-anchored mobility for IPv4 has two
types of Mobile IP (MIP) schemes. The first one is
client MIP-based and the other is proxy MIP-based.
However, owing to the differences between mobile
IPv4 and mobile IPv6, CSN-anchored mobility for
IPv6 only supports client MIP-based mobility. Thus,
the mobile node is equipped with mobile IPv6
capability. The advantage of CSN anchored mobility is
the efficient routing path compared to ASN anchored
mobility.
As mentioned earlier, while MIP provides mobile
nodes (MNs) for basic mobility management, it is not
suitable for the MN which frequently changes its
network (IP) address. The MIP will lead to binding
update (BU) between the mobile node and the home
agent as well as the correspondent node, and will cause
obvious handover latency. HMIPv6 introduces a new
network entity: mobility anchor point (MAP) to
mitigate the high signaling overhead. The MAP can be
considered as a local home agent (HA) of the mobile
node and binding update procedure can then be
performed locally. Consequently, the HMIPv6 is a
likely integration with the original WiMAX mobility
procedure due to anchoring. Therefore, this research
proposes two types of integration schemes with respect
to MAP location arrangement, MAP in ASN-GW and
MAP in CSN.
●MAP in ASN-GW
In the scenario depicted in Figure 3, MAP is located in
ASN-GW which also functions as an access router. The
MS has only to perform local binding update (LBU) to
stay in the same MAP domain, thus reducing handover
delay. Furthermore, this work modifies the original
HMIPv6 protocol and integrates the anchor function
with MAP. The anchored MAP is responsible for
message transferring from and to MN after the
inter-ASN handover. By doing so, it does not involve
R3 routing when inter-ASN handover occurs. However,
just as in traditional ASN anchored mobility, this
scenario needs a network to handle extra data paths
(R4 data paths) between ASNs.
Figure 3: Enhanced HMIPv6 MAP in ASN-GW
●MAP in CSN
serving ASN. If the authenticator ASN is different from
the serving ASN, the security context retrieval
procedure occurs between the authenticator ASN and
the target ASN.
●Phase III: When phase I and phase II are completed,
the MS starts the network entry procedure with the
target ASN-GW according to the IEEE 802.16e
standard. The MS sends a ranging request to the target
BS. During this phase, the target ASN-GW establishes
an R4 data path with the anchor ASN-GW for this MS
for seamless handover. If the data path pre-registration
procedure has preceded at phase I or phase II, there is
no need to establish the data path at this phase and the
time can be reduced. After the R4 data path has been
registered, MS can transmit/receive data between the
serving/anchor ASN-GW and the target ASN-GW by
tunneling.
●Phase IV: The above three phases are known as ASN
anchored mobility. Upon completing ASN anchored
mobility, this phase begins performing the update of
MS’s CoA if necessary (e.g. CSN anchored and
enhanced HMIPv6 MAP in CSN). The functional
entity in ASN-GW sends the
Anchor_DPF_Relocate_Req message to the target ASN,
indicating the anchor ASN relocation. This message
also triggers target ASN-GW to send a router
advertisement to MS. The MS forms a new CoA in
accordance with the prefix specified in the router
advertisement message. Then the MS uses a layer 3
protocol such as a mobile IPv6 or hierarchical mobile
IPv6 generating binding update and registration with
HA and CN. When the target ASN receives
Relocate_Cnf, the R3 relocation is complete. The
packet toward MS directly sends to target ASN-GW,
not the serving ASN-GW. The R4 data path set up
during phase III is deleted because the traffic no longer
passes through the serving ASN. The detailed
procedures of phase IV for CSN anchored mobility and
the enhanced HMIPv6 are shown in Figure 6 and
Figure 7, respectively.
Figure 6: Detailed Phase IV Handover Procedures
of CSN Anchored Mobility
Figure 7: Detailed Phase IV Handover Procedures of
Enhanced HMIPv6 mobility
(2) Performance Analysis
The following compares four possible scenarios based
on with/without MAP and location arrangement of
MAP, in terms of control message overhead and delay
time.
Figure 8 illustrates an example of a network
environment. An MS will handoff from ASN-1 to
ASN-2. ASN-1 is the serving ASN and ASN-2 is the
target ASN of the MS. Here we assume that ASN-1
also functions as an authenticator ASN and an anchor
ASN for the MS.
Figure 8: An Example of WiMAX Network
Environment
(a) HO Associated Messages Overhead
This research calculates handover-associated messages,
including HO data path (DP) and Context control
message, network re-entry and mobile IP control
messages, according to the four handover phases
mentioned above. The size of each message is obtained
and analyzed according to the IEEE 802.16e
media and distance between two nodes and hence
relates to network topology. Normally it can be taken
on the order of milliseconds. Consequently, ASN
anchored mobility obviously has the shortest HO
latency. However, it needs to establish an additional R4
data path between ASNs. This critically increases
backhaul traffic. Even worse, the cost could prohibit
network access.
5. EXPERIMENTAL SIMULATIONS With
SERVICE AREA
Figure 10 and Figure 11 give layer 2 and layer 3
simulation topologies used in performance evaluation.
Figure 10 includes nine overlapping ASNs, and we
assume each ASN consists of only one ASN-GW and
one BS for simplicity. Figure 11 shows that router 1 is
connected to two ASNs (in reality, nine ASNs) for
simple demonstration. The link delay is shown between
two nodes. For example the link delay between router 1
and router 2 is 50 ms.
Our simulation assumes that each MN adopts the
random waypoint model [9] and its related parameters
are listed in Table 4. The halt time is the time when
MN keeps the same movement characteristics.
Moreover, we assume each BS can accommodate at
most thirty MNs simultaneously and also assume if an
MN scans a better radio signal more than ten frames, it
will initiate handover procedures. To understand the
performance of mobility management schemes in terms
of the size of R3 re-anchoring domain, this work
induces the service area concept. A service area can be
regarded as an R3 re-anchoring administration domain.
MN’s movement within the same service area means it
will perform ASN anchored or MAP in ASN-GW
mobility management. Otherwise it will perform CSN
anchored or MAP in CSN mobility management. A
service area can contain several ASNs. Based on this
idea, the simulation topology in Figure 10 can be
divided into k services areas. We take k ＝ 2, 3, 4 as
displayed in Table 5 in our simulation. The Table
indicates that the larger the k, the smaller the size of R3
re-anchoring domain.
Figure 10: Layer 2 Simulation Topology
Figure 11: Layer 3 Simulation Topology
Table 4 MN’s Movement-related Parameters
Position Uniform Distribution
Speed 0 ~ 120 km/Hr Uniform Distribution
Direction 0 ~ 360 Degree Uniform Distribution
Halt Time Exponential Distribution
Mean Value : 15 Seconds
Upper Bound : 30 Seconds
Lower Bound : 3 Seconds
Table 5 Service Area Group for Different k
k Service area groups
2 ｛0,1,3,4｝｛2,5,6,7,8｝
3 ｛0,3,6｝｛1,4,7｝｛2,5,8｝
4 ｛0,3｝｛1,4｝｛2,5｝｛6,7,8｝
(1) Handover Latency
For MAP in CSN, router 1 is chosen as the MAP. For
MAP in ASN-GW, the anchor ASN of an MN is chosen
as its MAP. In the simulation, we execute ten thousand
times and average their handover latency as the final
results for k = 2, 3, 4. We take k = 2 as an example to
show the process. In this case, when an MN moves
from ASN0 to ASN1, it will perform ASN anchored or
MAP in ASN-GW schemes. While an MN moves from
ASN4 to ASN5, it will execute the mobile IP layer-3
HO scheme. Figure 12 and Figure 13 show the
handover latency of the proposed MAP in ASN-GW
and MAP in CSN respectively for different k. Both
figures show that when k becomes larger, handover
Figure 16: Handover Dropping Rate for ASN Anchored
and MAP in CSN of Different k
6. CONCLUSIONS
This paper focuses on the handover message flows
defined in [3] [4], also known as ASN anchored
mobility and CSN anchored mobility. This work also
adopts the HMIPv6 protocol into the standard
handover procedure, and then considers the location
allocation of its MAP in the WiMAX network. The
current research performs and compares quantitative
analysis by examining the TLVs and size of the
signaling control message. Analysis results indicate
that ASN anchored mobility has minimal handover
latency among the four scenarios at the cost of
additional R4 data paths to tunnel the packets from/to
MN. This characteristic increases the burden of
ASN-GWs, which cannot possibly handle an unlimited
number of R4 data paths in the real network
environment. So there is a tradeoff between handoff
latency and network overhead.
The current study also presents the service area
concept to decide when to perform R3 re-anchoring.
Simulation results show that if service area size
decreases, i.e. a larger k, the proportion of performing
R3 re-anchoring will increase. This causes long
handover latency but saves the network resource to
create extra R4 data paths between ASN-GW. On the
other hand, if service area size increases, i.e. a smaller
k, the dropping rate will increase due to limited R4 data
paths. Considering both handover latency and network
burden simultaneously, MAP in CSN and proper
service area arrangement might be a better solution.
REFERENCES
[1] IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area
networks Part 16: Air Interface for Fixed and
Mobile Broadband Wireless Access Systems
Amendment 2: Physical and Medium Access
Control Layers for Combined Fixed and Mobile
Operation in Licensed Bands and Corrigendum 1,
IEEE Std 802.16e-2005 and IEEE Std
802.16-2004 / Cor 1-2005, 2006.
[2] IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area
networks Part 16: Air Interface for Fixed
Broadband Wireless Access Systems. IEEE Std
802.16-2004, 2004.
[3] WiMAX Forum Network Architecture –Stage 2 –
Release 1.1.0, WiMAX Forum, July 2007.
[4] WiMAX Forum Network Architecture –Stage 3 –
Release 1.1.0, WiMAX Forum, July 2007.
[5] C. Perkins, “Mobile IP Support for IPv4”, IETF 
RFC 3344, August 2002.
[6] Johnson, C. Perkins, “Mobility Support in IPv6”,
IETF RFC 3775, June 2004.
[7] R. Koodli, “Fast Handovers for Mobile IPv6”, 
IETF RFC 4068, July 2005.
[8] S. Madanapali, Ed.”Analysis of IPv6 Link Models 
for IEEE 802.16 Based Networks”, IETF RFC
4968, Aug 2007.
[9] Chr.Bettstetter, H.Hartenstein, X.P´erez-Costa,
“Stochastic Properties of the Random Waypoint
Mobility Model”, ACM Mobicom Workshop 
MSWIM, 2002.
[10] H. Soliman, et al.”Hierarchical Mobile IPv6 
Mobility Management (HMIPv6)”, IETF RFC 
4140, Aug. 2005.
計畫成果自評：
本計畫年度探討移動式WiMax網路之換手與資源管
理。本年度將重點放在 WiMax 環境下，Layer 2 及
Layer 3 整合設計之問題，並探討 HMIPv6 的錨點
(Anchor)觀念與 WiMax 中 ASN/CSN 的錨點整合配
置時所造成之負荷分析，為求研究成果能務實，我
們也導入服務區域(Service Area)的觀念。除深入分
析不同配置方式訊息流程及訊息每一欄位之長度，
以探討其 overhead 差異外，我們也透過模擬方式進
一步瞭解效能之表現。據本人瞭解，國際上應該尚
未有此方面之研究，因此個人認為本研究成果具指
標性之意義。
筆者依大會規定，準備約 30 章 Power Point，進行約 20 分鐘之論文發表。
(因相片檔過大，筆者在大會 present 之相片刪除)
這是筆者第一次參加此 NISS 2009 國際研討會，會議地點在北京市的友誼飯店
(Beijing Friendship Hotel)。會議規模算中等，除一些台灣學者及少部份國外學者
外，大陸學者佔多數。在此規模不算大的研討會，但卻能 focus 在特定主題，各
篇論文發表者都做相當充分之準備，會場上 Q&A 之詢答過程還算熱烈。
二、 與會心得
此次非常感謝在國科會之經費補助能參與此次 NISS 2008 國際會議，本會議主題
非常 Focus，與會者所發表之論文具一定之水準，研究成果上也強調實務的重要
性。這對從事學術研究的筆者而言，具有相當的啟發，在聆聽與討論的過程中得
以瞭解相關領域的研究發展情形，獲益匪淺。
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略)
順道前往北京大學及清華大學，但因沒聯繫好，沒能進入，僅能在北大及清華正
門照相留念。
四、 建議
- 參加大型學術會議的好處在其規模的盛大及主題涵蓋的完整性，而中小型學術
研討會的特點在主題的深入及和與會學者的深入互動，各有特色。因此，參加
此兩種不同型態之學術研討會，在心態上應做不同的調適，方能從與會過程中
有較具體的收穫。
- 近幾年來，中國大陸經濟發展頗快速，本人七, 八年前曾來過北京，但經過奧
運會的舉辦，北京市的各項硬體建設，如地鐵、馬路、奧運村等，有相當大的
進展，但在人文、教育等軟體建設方面似乎有跟不上的感覺，這也是我們在追
求經濟發展時，需特別留意之處。
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容
- 本次大會會議論文集光碟
- 近期論文徵稿傳單
六、 其他
本人發表之論文附錄如後
connectivity functions to WiMAX subscribers. The
mandatory functions of ASNs are WiMAX layer 2
connectivity with WiMAX MS, transfer of AAA messages
from NSP, network discovery and selection, relay
functionality of layer 3 connectivity, and radio resource
management. An ASN could be shared by more than one
CSN, depending on the NAP’s business agreement with 
NSP.
An ASN is a set of functions that provides layer 2
connectivity, consisting of at least one base station (BS) and
one ASN gateway (ASN-GW). BS is the same entity
defined in [5], being responsible for MS layer 2 connectivity.
A BS could be connected to one or several ASN-GW
depending on the deploy scenario. But a BS is associated
with exactly one default ASN-GW. ASN-GW is an essential
entity defined in [3] and [4]. It represents an aggregation of
control plane functional entities that might be associated
with corresponding function in the same ASN or in another
ASN or in CSN.
Reference points in WiMAX are referred to a conceptual
interface between two functions resides in different
functional entities or in either the same entity. The reference
point between ASN-GW and BS is R6. And the RP between
two ASN-GWs which belong to the same ASN or the
different ASN is R4. A MS connects to ASN through
reference point R1, which takes charge of radio access
between them following the standard IEEE 802.16e [1]
definition. While the reference point between an ASN and a
CSN is R3.
III. Handover Management of WiMax
WiMAX network architecture, proposed in [2-3], supports
two types of mobility: ASN anchored mobility and CSN
anchored mobility. ASN anchored mobility has three kinds
of scenarios, R4, R6 and R8 mobility. The R4 ASN
anchored mobility is referred as inter-ASN mobility, while
R6 and R8 mobility is assumed to be occurred within
intra-ASN domain. CSN-anchored mobility is also referred
to R3 re-anchoring because it involves foreign agent (FA)
migration. It belongs to inter-ASN mobility obviously.
Figure 1 depicts the handover scenarios supported in
WiMAX. In this paper, we just focus on the inter-ASN
mobility discussion rather than intra-ASN handover. They
are discussed in more detail, respectively, in the following.
ASN anchored mobility management refers to the
procedures associated with the movement of a mobile
station (MS) between two base stations (BS), where the
target BS may belong to the same ASN or a different one,
without changing the traffic anchor point for the MS in the
serving (here it is like an “anchor”) ASN. In other words, 
ASN anchored mobility is mobility within the area of one or
more ASNs without FA relocation (without R3 change). The
main characteristic of ASN anchored mobility is that the
existing path between the correspondent node and the ASN
needs not to be reestablished during the handover. This type
of mobility includes intra-ASN mobility, e.g , and
inter-ASN mobility, eg. , of Figure 1. Generally, the
intra-ASN mobility will not introduce layer 3 mobility,
therefore, in this paper we only consider the inter-ASN
mobility for the integration with Mobile IP.
Figure 1. WiMAX mobility scenario
CSN-anchored mobility management leads to the handover
procedure, which involves the change of the traffic anchor
point for the MS from one ASN anchor point to another one,
without changing the CSN anchor as shown in  of Figure
1. WiMAX network architecture supports both IPv4 and
IPv6 for internet access. CSN-anchored mobility for IPv4
has two types of Mobile IP (MIP) schemes. The first one is
client MIP-based and the other is proxy MIP-based.
However, owing to the difference between mobile IPv4 and
mobile IPv6, the CSN-anchored mobility for IPv6 only
supports client MIP-based mobility. Thus, the mobile node
shall be equipped with mobile IPv6 capability. Thus, the
mobile node shall be aware of movement and the auto
configuration of IPv6 address. The advantage of CSN
anchored mobility is the efficient routing path when
comparing to the ASN anchored mobility.
As mentioned earlier, it is not suitable for the MN to
frequently change its network (IP) address. The reason is
that it will lead to perform the complex procedure of the
binding updates (BU) between mobile node and home agent
as well as its correspondent node. And it will cause obvious
handover latency. Hence HMIPv6 is proposed to mitigate
the high signaling overhead by introducing a new network
entity: mobility anchor point (MAP). The MAP can be
considered as a local home agent (HA) of the mobile node
and binding update procedure can then be performed locally.
Consequently, the HMIPv6 is a likely integration with the
original WiMAX mobility procedure due to the concept of
anchoring. Therefore, two types of integration scheme with
respect to arrangement of MAP locations, MAP in ASN-GW
procedure will occur between authenticator ASN and
target ASN.
 Phase III: When phase I and phase II are done, the MS
starts the network entry procedure with the target
ASN-GW according to IEEE 802.16e standard. The MS
shall send ranging request to target BS. During this phase,
the target ASN-GW will establish a R4 data path with the
anchor ASN-GW for this MS. If the data path
pre-registration procedure has preceded at phase I or
phase II, there is no need to establish the data path at this
phase and the time can be reduced. After the R4 data path
has been registered, MS can transmit/receive data
between the serving/anchor ASN-GW and target
ASN-GW by tunneling.
 Phase IV: The above three phases are known as ASN
anchored mobility. Upon completing ASN anchored
mobility, this phase starts to perform the update of MS’s
CoA if necessary (e.g. CSN anchored and enhanced
HMIPv6 MAP in CSN). The functional entity in
ASN-GW will send Anchor_DPF_Relocate _Req to the
target ASN, indicating the anchor ASN relocation. This
message also trigger target ASN-GW to send router
advertisement. MS will form a new CoA. Then MS uses
layer 3 protocol such as mobile IPv6 or hierarchical
mobile IPv6 generating binding update and registration
with HA and CN. When the target ASN receives
Relocate_Cnf, the R3 relocation is complete. The packet
toward MS will directly send to target ASN-GW, not the
serving ASN-GW. The R4 data path which is set up
during phase III will be deleted because the traffic no
longer passes through serving ASN.
Figure 4. Four-phase handover procedure
Performance Analysis
Based on with/without MAP and the location arrangement of
MAP, four possible scenarios will be compared in terms of
control message overhead and delay time. In Figure 5, a
network topology is illustrated for convenient explanation. In
this figure, a MS is going to handover from ASN-1 to ASN-2,
where ASN-1 is the serving ASN and ASN-2 is the target
ASN of this MS. Here we assume that ASN-1 functions as
an authenticator ASN and also an anchor ASN of the MS.
Figure 5. An example of network environment
- Analysis of HO-associated messages overhead
The handover-associated messages, including HO DP and
Context control message, network re-entry and mobile IP
ASN
Anchored
Mobility
CSN
Anchored
Mobility
MAP
in
ASN-GW
MAP
in CSN
Pt(μs) 0 1113 836 725
The link delay mainly depends on the transmission
media and distance between two nodes and hence is related
to network topology. Normally it can be taken on the order
of milliseconds. Consequently, it is obvious that ASN
anchored mobility has the shortest HO latency. However, it
needs to establish additional R4 data path between ASNs.
This critically increases backhaul traffic. Even worse, the
cost could be prohibitive for network access. Figure 7
depicts the average R4 data path number maintained by
ASN for different scenarios by simulation in which random
waypoint model is adopted for the movement of MS. And
MSs move within a 20Km x 17Km area which consists of 9
ASNs. It also illustrates that the scenarios of MAP in
ASN-GW and ASN anchored mobility need extra some R4
data paths, while the other two CSN based scenarios do not
need it at all. Moreover, the number of data paths increases
in according with the increase of the number of MS.
Figure 7. Average R4 data path numbers per ASN in each
scenario
V. Conclusions
In this paper, we dwell on the handover message flows
defined in [1-2], which is also known as ASN anchored
mobility and CSN anchored mobility. In addition, we
integrate the HMIPv6 protocol into the standard WiMAX
handover procedure, and then discuss the impact for the
location allocation of MAP in WiMAX network. The
quantitative analysis are carried out and compared by
exactly examining the TLVs and size of the signaling flows
and the associated control messages. In the scenario of MAP
in ASN-GW, the signaling procedure is modified to be
smoothly handover for layer 2 and 3. The analysis results
indicate that the ASN anchored mobility has the minimal
handover delay among the four scenarios at the cost of
additional R4 data paths to tunnel the packets from/to MS.
This character increases the burden of ASN-GWs. It is not
possible for ASN-GW to handle unlimited number of R4
data paths in the practical network environment. So there
shall be a tradeoff between handoff latency and network
overhead. In order to evaluate this tradeoff, the concept of
service area as in 3G network may be exploited to decide
whether R3 re-anchoring is valuable to be performed or not.
We keep conducting simulation about it and the results will
be come out soon. Moreover, the effect for MAP selection
on the enhanced HMIPv6 schemes will also be an
interesting issue in our future works.
Acknowledgment
This research was supported in part by the grants
from the National Science Council (NSC) (grant
numbers: NSC96-2221-E-008-011,
97-2221-E-008-033, and 96- 2627-E-008-001).
References
[1] IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks Part
16: Air Interface for Fixed and Mobile Broadband Wireless
Access Systems Amendment 2: Physical and Medium Access
Control Layers for Combined Fixed and Mobile Operation in
Licensed Bands and Corrigendum 1, IEEE Std 802.16e-2005
and IEEE Std 802.16-2004 / Cor 1-2005, 2006.
[2] IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks Part
16: Air Interface for Fixed Broadband Wireless Access
Systems. IEEE Std 802.16-2004, 2004.
[3] WiMAX Forum Network Architecture –Stage 2 –Release
1.1.0, WiMAX Forum, July 2007.
[4] WiMAX Forum Network Architecture –Stage 3 –Release
1.1.0, WiMAX Forum, July 2007.
[5] C. Perkins, “Mobile IP Support for IPv4”, IETF RFC 3344, 
August 2002.
[6] Johnson, C. Perkins, “Mobility Support in IPv6”, IETF RFC
3775, June 2004.
[7] R. Koodli, “Fast Handovers for Mobile IPv6”, IETF RFC 
4068, July 2005.
[8] S. Madanapalli, Ed,“Analysis of IPv6 Link Models for IEEE
802.16 Based Networks”, IETF RFC 4968, Aug 2007.
