 2
3. Project Motivation and Objective 
Over the last decade, advances in Internet 
technology brought about the proliferation of 
Internet-based multimedia applications, such as IPTV, 
remote terminal services and on-line gaming. These 
applications virtually require meeting different time 
varying and high-bandwidth demands and stringent 
delay-throughput performance. While optical circuit 
switching (OCS) is successful in supporting bulky 
steady traffic over long-haul WDM networks, optical 
packet-switching (OPS) [1,2] enables fine-grained 
on-demand channel allocation (i.e., statistical 
multiplexing) and has thus been considered to be a 
preeminent paradigm capable of supporting such 
applications over future optical WDM metropolitan 
area networks (MANs) [1,3], which are expected to 
cost-effectively satisfy a wide range of applications 
having time-varying and high bandwidth demands 
and stringent delay requirements. Note that the OPS 
technique studied here excludes the use of optical 
signal processing and optical buffers, a current 
technological limitation faced by OPS. 
Numerous topologies and architectures [3-14] for 
OPS WDM MANs have been proposed in recent 
years. Of these proposals, the structure of slotted rings 
[4-14] has received the most attention. Comprehensive 
surveys of WDM metro slotted-ring networks can be 
found in the literature [3]. While most of the work 
[8,9] is simulation driven, only a handful [4-7] involve 
experimental prototypes. Because experimental 
prototyping has been one of our major tasks, we 
assessed two experimental testbed systems that are 
relevant to our work, focusing on three key challenges 
pertaining to OPS WDM slotted-ring networks. They 
are the following: (1) the scalable design of networks, 
particularly with respect to the number of 
wavelengths; (2) the design and implementation of 
high-speed photonic hardware components (e.g., fast 
tunable receivers, optical slot erasers); and (3) the 
design and implementation of medium access control 
(MAC) schemes [3] that achieve high statistical 
multiplexing gain and satisfy diverse and stringent 
delay-throughput requirements under a wide range of 
traffic loads and burstiness. 
First, Ring Optical Network (RingO) [7] is a 
unidirectional WDM slotted ring network with no 
more than N nodes where N is equal to the number of 
wavelengths. Each node is equipped with an array of 
fixed-tuned transmitters and one fixed-tuned receiver 
operating on a given home wavelength that identifies 
the node. Such a design gives rise to a scalability 
problem. RingO employs a MAC protocol, called a 
synchronous round robin with reservations (SR3) [8]. 
To achieve high utilization and fairness, SR3 employs 
a combination of token-based access and 
slot-reservation mechanisms. Unfortunately, under 
heavy loads RingO experiences deteriorating access 
delay as a result of an increase in cycle length. 
Second, Hybrid Optoelectronic Ring NETwork 
(HORNET) [4] is a bi-directional WDM slotted ring 
network in which each node is equipped with a 
tunable transmitter and a fixed-tuned receiver 
(TT-FR). Note that although fast tunable transmitters 
[15] with a laser tuning time up to several 
nanoseconds have emerged, fast tunable receivers [16] 
operating on the order of nanoseconds remain 
virtually unavailable. HORNET uses a MAC protocol, 
called a Distributed Queue Bidirectional Ring 
(DQBR), which is a modified version of the IEEE 
802.16 Distributed Queue Dual Bus (DQDB) protocol 
[17]. Specifically, DQBR requires each node to 
maintain a distributed queue via a pair of counters per 
wavelength. The counting system ensures that packets 
are sent in the order they arrive at the network. With 
DQBR, HORNET achieves acceptable utilization and 
fairness at the expense of high control complexity for 
maintaining the same number of counter-pairs as that 
of wavelengths. However, due to the use of 
fixed-tuned receivers, HORNET statically assigns 
each node a wavelength as the home channel for 
receiving packets. Such static wavelength assignment 
results in poor statistical multiplexing gain and, as a 
result, throughput deteriorates. 
Another key challenges pertaining to OPS-based 
WDM networks is the header control The header 
control can be in-band [7,12-14], where both header 
and payload are modulated and transported via the 
same wavelength, or out-of-band [4,10,11], where 
control headers are carried via a dedicated control 
wavelength. While both control methods have their 
merits, from a carrier’s perspective, an out-of-band 
control system appears impractical due to the 
contains a data packet in addition to some control 
fields to facilitate synchronization. In the interest of 
clarity, “data slots” and “data packets” are used 
interchangeably in what follows. 
Within each slot time, all data slots of W channels 
are fully aligned with the corresponding control slot. 
Each control slot is then subdivided into W mini-slots 
to carry the status of W data slots, respectively. 
Moreover, there are two types of nodes in 
HOPSMAN: ordinary-node (O-node), and 
server-node (S-node). An S-node differs from an 
O-node by having an additional optical slot eraser that 
makes bandwidth reusable and achieves greater 
bandwidth efficiency for the network. It is important 
to note that the network attains much better 
bandwidth efficiency by using only a few S-nodes. 
Each node of both types has a fixed transmitter and 
receiver pair for accessing the control channel, and a 
tunable transmitter and receiver pair for accessing 
data channels. 
In general, with respect to accessing data 
channels, the node architecture falls into one of two 
categories: switch-based, and broadcast-and- 
select-based. Basically, the switch-based architecture 
includes the use of a de-multiplexer and a 
space-switch matrix to direct all desired channels to 
the optical receivers. Opposed to this, the 
broadcast-and-select architecture uses an optical 
coupler to tap off a portion of the optical signal power 
from the ring to make all data channels available 
(“broadcast”) to the node. The desired data channel is 
then “selected” via a tunable or band-pass filter. 
While switched-based nodes provide high channel 
capacity through the simultaneous access of multiple 
wavelengths, it becomes costly for some nodes that 
demand less capacity than provided. In contrast, the 
broadcast-and-select structure enables an incremental 
and cost-effective upgrade of the channel capacity. 
Accordingly, our HOPSMAN testbed system adopts 
the broadcast-and-select architecture. As a result, 
while each O-node has only one optical transmitter 
and receiver pair, an S-node can easily be upgraded to 
multiple pairs of tunable transmitters and receivers. 
The architecture of a node in HOPSMAN is 
shown in Figure 2. It is best described as consisting of 
two building blocks for control-channel processing 
and data-channel accessing. For control-channel 
processing, a fixed optical drop filter (ODF) at the 
input port first extracts the optical signal from the 
control channel slot by slot. The control information 
is electrically received by a fixed-tuned receiver, and 
processed by the MAC processor. While the control 
information is extracted and processed, data packets 
remain transported optically in a fixed-length fiber 
delay line. The channel timing processor, in 
coordination with the SYNC monitoring module, is 
responsible for extracting the slot boundary timing 
and for subsequently providing the activation timing 
for other modules. Having obtained the control 
information, namely the status of W data channels, the 
MAC processor then executes the MAC scheme 
(described later) to determine the add/drop/erase 
operations for all W channels and the status updates of 
the corresponding mini-slots in the control channel. 
Finally, a fixed-tuned transmitter inserts the 
 4
Figure 1. General architecture of the HOPSMAN network testbed. 
Legend: 
HOPSMAN Metro Network
. . .
: Server node 
: Ordinary node 
Mini-slot
Control Slot Format 
Destination Address Status
λW-1λW λ1 λ2 … Header
Control  
Channel 
Data  
Channels 
λ0 
λ1 
λW 
λW-1 
Cyclek+1 Cyclek Cyclek-1
Slot Slot
. . .
A.3 Testbed Experimentation and Results 
We built an experimental ring testbed to 
demonstrate the feasibility and performance of 
HOPSMAN. The testbed consists of three nodes: one 
S-node and two O-nodes (O1-node and O2-node). The 
hardware implementation of an S-node is illustrated 
by the functional diagrams in Figure 3. Note that the 
implementation for an O-node is the same as that of 
an S-node except with the slot eraser removed. The 
ring testbed is 38.3 km long, with 10 cycles per ring, 
50 slots per cycle, and each slot 320 ns long, yielding 
a total of 500 time slots, or 160 μs in one ring length. 
The testbed uses a control-channel wavelength of 
1540.56 nm, and four data channels at wavelengths of 
1551.72 nm, 1553.33 nm, 1554.94 nm and 1556.55 
nm. The input and output power per channel is kept at 
-10 dBm and 0 dBm, respectively, by using 
attenuators and amplifiers on the ring. The control 
channel employs continuous-mode transmission at a 
rate of 2.5 Gb/s, and is processed at each node 
through an O-E-O conversion. On the other hand, data 
channels adopt burst-mode transmissions at a target 
rate of 10 Gb/s. Owing to the technological 
immaturity for high-speed optical burst-mode 
receivers (BMRs), we have deliberately downgraded 
the data channels’ bit rate to 1.25 Gb/s so that 
commercially available BMRs could be used. It is 
important to note that the HOPSMAN testbed has 
been designed so that the rates of the data and control 
channels are independent of each other. Because of 
the extensive use of BMRs in passive optical 
networks, we expect that 10-Gb/s BMRs will be 
commercially available soon. 
Besides a fast tunable transmitter, as shown in 
Figure 3(a), a node (S-node) contains three major 
components: an FPGA-based central processor, a fast 
tunable filter/receiver, and an optical slot eraser. 
These components are described in detail in the 
following sections. 
 6
Figure 3. Hardware implementation of the 
HOPSMAN testbed system. 
(c) FPGA-based central processor 
(b) Four-wave-mixing-based fast tunable 
filter/receiver 
(a) Experimental node setup (S-node) A.3.1 Channel Synchronization and MAC 
The FPGA-based central processor consists of a 
control-channel board and a data-channel board, as 
shown in Figure 3(c). The processor is responsible for 
performing four major functions: channel 
synchronization, medium access control, optical 
device control, and data packet framing. Before 
describing these functions, we address a number of 
key design features for channel synchronization on 
HOPSMAN. For WDM slotted-ring networks, the 
timing synchronization between the data and control 
channels must be perfectly maintained at all times. In 
the HOPSMAN testbed, the channel-timing 
synchronization is ensured via two levels of 
alignment, which are coarse-grained and fine-grained 
synchronization, as well as guard-time-based 
dispersion compensation. 
the updated control slot is sent back to the ring 
through the optical transceiver. 
The data-channel board contains a Xilinx 
Spartn3A FPGA chip. It is responsible for the last 
function of the central controller, namely data-packet 
framing between the Fast Ethernet and the 
HOPSMAN ring. Note that the testbed can support 
any type of local area network and interface; we use 
Fast Ethernet only because of its wide availability. 
Specifically, for the outbound flow, the framer 
module first segments incoming Ethernet packets into 
smaller 350-bit-long HOPSMAN slots. Before being 
sent to the ring, data packets are encoded via the 
8B/10B encoder, which enables reliable transmission 
and easier burst-mode reception. In the inbound flow, 
the framer performs the reverse function by 
assembling a number of data slots back to an original 
Ethernet frame. 
 8
(a) Received signal by four-wave-mixing-based 
filter/receiver 
A.3.2 Fast Tunable Filter/Receiver and Optical Slot 
Eraser 
Tunable filters made from mechanically moving 
elements usually require millisecond tuning times, 
which is not feasible for optical packet-switching 
networks. New devices that achieve tuning times on 
the order of a microsecond have been proposed. 
Among them, the electro-optic tunable filter (EOTF) 
[16] can achieve sub-microsecond tuning speed, but 
requires a high tuning voltage. The acousto-optic 
tunable filter (AOTF) [18] reaches microsecond speed 
but only during the selection of channels. The fiber 
Fabry-Perot-based tunable filter [19] also efficiently 
provides a response time of up to few microseconds. 
In principle, the microsecond-level tuning time is still 
unacceptable for an OPS network that adopts a slot as 
small as 320ns, as HOPSMAN does. 
In the HOPSMAN testbed system, we adopted a 
polarization-insensitive four-wave-mixing (FWM)- 
based optical tunable filter/receiver, as shown in 
Figure 3(b). Based on the FWM method, by using a 
sampled-grating distributed-Bragg-reflector (SGDBR) 
tunable pumping laser and an SOA, the wavelength of 
the tapped-off data signal can be converted to the 
target wavelength, namely the wavelength of the fixed 
filter provided. The inherent polarization-tracking 
problem of this FWM-based system is solved using 
polarization diversity [20], as illustrated in Figure 3(b). 
The approach attains a conversion efficiency of 18 dB. 
Since the system tuning time depends on the tuning 
speed of the pumping laser, our FWM-based tunable 
filter/receiver achieves a tuning time of less than 25 
ns. The experimental result in Figure 5(a) displays the 
optical spectrum and the eye diagram of the received 
signal. 
The optical slot eraser was built with a 
Mux/Demux pair and an array of SOA gates, which 
can be turned on/off in 5 ns and achieve an on/off 
extinction ratio greater than 30 dB. Figure 5(b) 
displays the two distinctive waveforms of a data 
channel before and after the erasing operation. The 
SOA gates also provide a 10-dB gain to cover the 
nodal loss contributed by the control-channel 
add/drop filter and Mux/Demux filters. 
10
1535 1540 1545 1550 1555 1560
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
W a v e le n g th  (n m )
Po
w
er
 (d
B
m
)
Received signal 
Original signal
(b) Waveforms before and after optical slot eraser 
Figure 5. Experimental results with fast optical 
devices. 
draw comparisons between OPACS and two other 
networks via simulation results. Finally, the prototype 
and experimental results are demonstrated in 
Sub-section B.4. 
B.1 OPACS- System Architecture 
The WDM network that is governed by OPACS 
at each node consists of a pair of unidirectional fiber 
rings, i.e., the forward and reverse rings. The signal 
propagates on the two rings in opposite directions. 
More specifically, packets destined for downstream 
and upstream nodes are sent along the forward and 
reverse rings, respectively. Each ring carries a number 
of WDM data channels, which are further divided into 
synchronous time slots. Each slot contains a control 
header field followed by a fixed-size packet payload. 
Notice that such a dual-ring network is logically a 
bus-based network (with two buses that are wrapped 
into two rings). Therefore, there is one server node 
located at the beginning of the two rings, which is 
responsible for generating optical slots initially, and 
resetting all used optical slots each time after the slots 
have traveled one lap of the ring. 
Specifically, each header and its payload are 
time- multiplexed within a slot, operating at data rates 
of 1 Gb/s and 10 Gb/s, respectively. (The rationale 
behind the design of using different rates is described 
as follows. The header in OPACS is only two bytes 
long, resulting in low control overhead. Therefore, a 
rate of 1-Gbps is sufficiently fast and acceptable. 
However, the header bit-rate can be upgraded 
provided with a rate-compatible burst mode receiver, 
if the header size increases or the payload size 
decreases.) Each node is equipped with one tunable 
transmitter and one tunable receiver for each ring. 
Since the operations for accessing the two rings are 
identical and independent, for simplicity, we 
hereinafter focus on the access control for the forward 
ring only. 
The architecture of OPACS is shown in Figure 7. 
Assume there are four wavelengths used in the 
network. As shown in Figure 7(a), at the input as 
parallels slots are passing by, an optical gate/switch 
first separates the headers from data packets into two 
paths. Along the header path, the optical headers of 
four channels are reflected by four fiber Bragg 
gratings, resulting in a wavelength-to-time conversion 
for the headers. In other words, the channels’ headers 
are converted from being parallel to serial in the time 
domain. These serial headers are later tapped to an 
optical header receiver by a circulator. Once the MAC 
processor receives and processes the header 
information, it determines the reception and 
transmission of data packets, and then updates the 
headers according to the MAC algorithm described 
later. Subsequently, the optical headers are updated 
by the optical header rewriter, which is implemented 
by an electro-absorption (EA) optical modulator. 
After having been updated, the serial optical headers 
experience a reversed time-to-wavelength conversion 
on the outbound path through the same set of fiber 
Bragg gratings. Along the data path, the data packets 
are optically added or dropped via the optical 
add/drop multiplexer (ADM). Finally, the optical 
headers on different wavelengths are combined with 
their corresponding data packet via an optical coupler. 
 10
Figure 7. OPACS- system architecture. 
(a) System architecture (W=4) 
(b) Electro-Absorption (EA) Modulation- an example
The operating principle of the EA modulator can 
be explained with one simple example illustrated in 
Figure 7(b). Note first, that the control header bits are 
RZ encoded. One particularly notable feature of our 
the CD counter of the first request is zero but there 
exist no packets in the VOQ’s that are 
receiver-contention free or there are more idle slots 
left, DMGWR applies the so-called pipelining 
operation by decreasing the next request’s CD counter 
by the number of remaining idle slots. Such an 
operation is repeatedly and sequentially applied to all 
entries in the pending request queue until no idle slots 
are left uncalculated. Finally, when the VOQ’s and 
pending request queue are empty, the node returns to 
an idle state. 
To implement the DMGWR scheme, each slot 
consists of a control header and a payload field. The 
control header includes a one-bit Busy (B) field, a 
three-bit Request (R) field, a six-bit Destination 
Address (DA) field. The Busy field indicates whether 
the slot is Busy (=0) or Idle (=1). The three-bit 
Request field allows nodes to make a reservation 
request for one (=110) to seven slots (=000). The 
Destination Address field is used to identify the 
destination address of the data packet. It is worth 
noting that both Busy and Request control fields are 
designed to be always updated from 1 to 0, thereby 
allowing the proposed optical header replacement 
technique to perform a rather straightforward header 
rewriting operation described earlier. 
B.3 Simulation Results 
We draw comparisons between the DMGWR 
scheme and two other existing schemes (WDMA and 
DQBR), and demonstrate its performance with respect 
to throughput, access delay, and fairness under 
various system settings, via simulation. The 
simulation is event-based and written in the C 
language. It is terminated after reaching a 95% 
confidence interval. In the simulation, there are 48 
nodes in the network, numbered from 1 to 48 
corresponding to the most upstream (node 1) to the 
most downstream (node 48) locations. Nodes are 
equally spaced around the ring with an inter-nodal 
distance (D) of ten-slot long without specific 
indication. New packets are generated at the slot 
boundaries following either a Poisson distribution or a 
two-state (H and L) Markov Modulated Poisson 
Process (MMPP) [36] for modeling smooth and bursty 
traffic, respectively. Specifically, the MMPP is 
characterized by four parameters (α, β, λH, and λL), 
where α (β) is the probability of changing from state 
 12
Figure 8. The DMGWR scheme and illustration. 
 14
 over a network with 
mali
examine the impact of the 
Figure 11. Delay comparisons for network with 
malicious nodes. 
(a) Malicious node (Node 10) 
(b) Malicious nodes (Nodes 10 and 15) 
Figure 12. The impact of multi-window design on 
throughput and delay. 
(a) Throughput comparison 
(b) Delay under various burstiness 
among all nodes regardless of the ring length and 
traffic burstiness. By contrast, both WDMA and 
DQBR are in favor of downstream and upstream 
nodes, respectively, manifesting delay unfairness. For 
WDMA, a larger ring length leads to a longer wait of 
upstream nodes for retransmissions in the case of the 
occurrences of receiver contentions. We also observe 
in the figure that the delay of DQBR is plotted by a 
serrated curve (around nodes 36 and 44) on the 
downstream side due to the impact of a cyclic home 
channel assignment of DQBR. 
We furthermore draw a delay comparison 
between DMGWR and DQBR
cious nodes. In the simulation, nodes 10 and/or 
15 are set as malicious nodes, where each node 
generated an excessive load of 0.09 per wavelength, 
in a network with a total load of 0.85 per wavelength. 
As displayed in Figures 11(a) and 11(b), DMGWR 
causes the malicious nodes to suffer severe delays, 
while leaving other normal nodes completely 
unaffected. On the other hand, the DQBR scheme 
results in unexpected delay deterioration (and thus 
unfairness) for the downstream nodes. As the number 
of malicious nodes increases, the delay unfairness 
problem worsens, as Figure 11(b) demonstrates. In 
this case, DMGWR can still guarantee a high grade of 
fairness among all nodes. Thus, the DMGWR scheme 
is robust and fair even when under attack by 
malevolent nodes. 
We finally 
the experiment, the fiber length between gratings is 
half of the header duration, namely 13 ns. With this 
timing arrangement, after being reflected by the 
grating array, the headers are converted from parallel 
to serial in the time domain (Figure 14(d)). Therefore, 
instead of using a header receiver for each channel, 
the system requires only one header receiver and 
rewriter module for the update of all headers. They 
are then routed to the header receiver and rewriter 
(EA Modulator) via a circulator. 
The header signal is tapped by a 50/50 tap 
coupler and received by an optical burst mode 
receiver for recovering the header information. The 
bottom part of Figure 14(d) shows the RZ-encoded 
signal of the header on λ3. Recall that the header 
information is always changed from 1 to 0 due to the 
MAC design, so that the header rewriter is designed 
as a pulse eraser. Since RZ pulses enables fast clock 
phase selection and can be erased with higher timing 
margin than NRZ pulses, we thereby adopt the RZ 
encoding format for the header signal. Although 
different headers are converted from parallel to serial 
by gratings, the clock phase of the combined header 
signal is not continuous. Thus, the header receiver 
determines the best clock phase for each individual 
header signal from the header’s preamble pulses. 
As shown in Figure 14(e), the control bits are 
modified (based on the DMGWR scheme) from 
“1111” to “0110” by the EA modulator with an 
extinction ratio of 12 dB. The headers are then 
time-to-wavelength converted from serial back to 
parallel (Figure 14(f)) in the time domain through the 
 16
Figure 14. Experimental results- signal traces observed at stages (a)-(g). 
 18
(4) Maria C. Yuang, Steven S. W. Lee, Bird C. Lo, 
I-Fen Chao, Yu-Min Lin, Po L. Tien, Ching-Yun 
Chien and Jason J. Chen, “A High-Performance 
Optical Packet-Switched Metro WDM Ring 
Network- Technology and Experimentation,” 
IEEE/OSA APOC, invited talk, 2007. 
(5) Maria C. Yuang, Ya-Shian Wang, and Yu-Min 
Lin, “VMAPS: a Versatile Medium Access 
Control and Processing System for an Optical 
WDM Metro Ring Network,” IEEE/OSA ECOC, 
2007. 
(6) Maria C. Yuang, Steven S. W. Lee, Bird C. Lo, 
I-Fen Chao, Yu-Min Lin, Po L. Tien, Ching-Yun 
Chien and Jason J. Chen, “HOPSMAN: An 
Experimental Optical Packet-Switched Metro 
WDM Ring Network with High-Performance 
Medium Access Control,” IEEE/OSA ECOC, 
2006. 
References 
[1] S. Yao, S. Yoo, B. Mukherjee, and S. Dixit, 
“All-Optical Packet Switching for Metropolitan Area 
Networks: Opportunities and Challenges,” IEEE 
Commun. Mag., vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 142-148, Mar. 
2001. 
[2] M. Yuang, S. Lee, P. Tien, Y. Lin, J. Shih, F. Tsai, and 
A. Chen, “Optical Coarse Packet-Switched 
IP-over-WDM Network (OPSINET): Technologies 
and Experiments,” IEEE J. on Select. Areas in 
Commun., vol. 24, no. 8, pp. 117-127, Aug. 2006. 
[3] M. Herzog, M. Maier, and M. Reisslein, 
“Metropolitan Area Packet-Switched WDM 
Networks: A Survey on Ring Systems,” IEEE 
Commun. Surveys & Tutor., vol. 6, no. 2, 2004, pp. 
2-20. 
[4] I. White, M. Rogge, K. Shrikhande, and L. Kazovsky, 
“A Summary of the HORNET Project: A 
Next-Generation Metropolitan Area Network,” IEEE 
J. on Select. Areas in Commun., vol. 21, no. 9, Nov. 
2003, pp. 1478-1494. 
[5] L. Dittmann, C. Develder, D. Chiaroni, F. Neri, F. 
Callegati, et al., “The European IST Project DAVID: 
A Viable Approach Toward Optical Packet 
Switching,” IEEE J. on Select. Areas in Commun., 
vol. 21, no. 7, pp. 1026-1040, Sept. 2003. 
[6] C. Develder, A. Stavdas, A. Bianco, D. Careglio, H. 
Lnsethagen, et al., “Benchmarking and Viability 
Assessment of Optical Packet Switching for Metro 
Networks,” IEEE J. of Lightw. Technol., vol. 22, no. 
11, pp. 2435–2451, Nov. 2004. 
[7] A. Carena, V. Feo, J. Finochietto, R. Gaudino, F. Neri, 
C. Piglione, and P. Poggiolini, “RingO: An 
Experimental WDM Optical Packet Network for 
Metro Applications,” IEEE J. on Select. Areas in 
Commun., vol. 22, no. 8, Oct. 2004, pp. 1561-1571. 
[8] M. Marsan, A. Bianco, E. Leonardi, A. Morabito, and 
F. Neri, “All-Optical WDM Multi-Rings with 
Differentiated QoS,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 37, 
no. 2, pp. 58-66, Feb. 1999. 
[9] C. Jeiger and J. Elmirghani, “Photonic Packet WDM 
Ring Networks Architecture and Performance,” IEEE 
Commun. Mag., vol. 40, no. 11, pp. 110-115, Nov. 
2002. 
[10] C. Linardakis, H. Leligou, A. Stavdas, and J. 
Angelopoulos, “Using Explicit Reservations to 
Arbitrate Access to a Metropolitan System of Slotted 
Interconnected Rings Combining TDMA and 
WDMA,” IEEE J. of Lightw. Technol., vol. 23, no. 4, 
April 2005, pp. 1576–1585. 
[11] J. Lu and L. Kleinrock, “A WDMA Protocol for 
Multichannel DQDB Networks,” Proc. of IEEE 
GLOBECOM, vol. 1, Nov. 1993, pp. 149-153. 
[12] K. Bengi and H. As, “Efficient QoS Support in a 
Slotted Multihop WDM Metro Ring Network,” IEEE 
J. on Select. Areas in Commun., vol. 20, no. 1, Jan. 
2002, pp. 216-227. 
[13] D. Wonglumsom, I. White, K. Shrikhande, M. Rogge, 
S. Gemelos, F. An, Y. Fukashiro, M. Avenarius, and L. 
Kazovsky, “Experimental Demonstratoion of an 
Access Point for HORNET-A Packet-Over-WDM 
Multiple-Access MAN,” IEEE J. of Lightwave 
Technol., vol. 18, no. 12, Dec. 2000, pp. 1709-1717. 
[14] M. Yuang, Y. Wang, and Y. Lin, “A Novel Medium 
Access Control and Processing System for a 
Packet-Switched WDM Metro Ring Network,” 
IEEE/OSA OFC, 2008. 
[15] J. Simsarian, A. Bhardwaj, J. Gripp, K. Sherman, Y. 
Su, C. Webb, L. Zhang, and M. Zirngibl, “Fast 
Switching Characteristics of a Widely Tunable Laser 
Transmitter,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett., vol. 15, no. 
8, pp. 1038-1040, Aug. 2003. 
[16] P. Tang, O. Eknoyan, and H. Taylor, “Rapidly 
Tunable Optical Add-Drop Multiplexer (OADM) 
using a Static-Strain-Induced Grating in LiNbO3,” 
IEEE J. of Lightw. Technol., vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 
236-245, Jan. 2003. 
[17] Distributed Queue Dual Bus (DQDB) Subnetwork of 
a Metropolitan Area Network (MAN), IEEE Standard 
802.6, Dec. 1990. 
[18] S. H. Huang, X. Zou, A. Willner, Z. Bao, and D. 
