      1 
 
研究摘要(500 字以內)： 
本研究係於矽上藉由共濺鍍技術於 Ar/N2 雰圍下製備具高溫穩定性之 Cu(Ir)與 Cu(IrNx)銅
種仔層。Cu(Ir)與 Cu(IrNx)薄膜分別經 650°C 與 730°C 退火後一小時後並無觀得有銅矽化合
物生成於 Cu–Si 界面。含微量 IrNx 之銅薄膜高溫穩定性可達 730°C，且具低電阻與漏電流，
可應用為未來之先進無阻障層銅金屬化製程。高溫穩定性藉由 XRD、FIB 與 TEM 評估，並
證實 Cu(IrNx)薄膜經 730°C 退火一小時後於 Cu 薄膜與矽間並無反應，Cu(Ir)與 Cu(IrNx)薄膜
分別經 650 與 730°C 退火後之電阻值分別為 4.32 與 2.67 µΩ-cm。 
關鍵詞：銅種仔層，半導體線材，無阻障金屬化製程 
 
人才培育成果說明： 
1. 解決並提出我國半導體產業銅製程中阻障層日趨減薄所衍生電阻上升之替代方案，簡化銅
製程，降低成本。提升銅導線薄膜於微電子元件工程上應用之高溫穩定性，進而被廣泛應
用於各類的電子構裝、光電材料之微電子工程製作上，藉本計畫的研究成果可瞭解不互溶
物質添加對銅矽化合物抑制程度之影響，亦可進一步得知掺雜不互溶物質銅種仔層之效
能，並與擴散阻絕層之效果作相對之比較，以瞭解其間之差異。 
2. 本計畫中參與研究的學生有三位，主要以銅薄膜濺鍍製作、材料分析、TDDB操作為主，
過程中該學生已習得製作銅合金薄膜之基礎理論及應用技術，並且在電阻、漏電流、TDDB
量測等材料分析與檢測技術方面均具有實質提升的成效。此外，對於研究方法及實驗參數
設計部分更能確切掌控，對實驗研究能力的提升具有實質助益。造就參與本計劃人員在這
方面的知識與能力，成為半導體科技人才之一。 
3. 建立我國無阻障層銅導線薄膜技術與能力及提昇我國的科技研究國際地位。 
技術研發成果說明：見 Page 1 
技術特點說明： 
相較於鋁(Al)於矽元件上之銅金屬化製程因具較高之導電度與較佳之抗電遷移性，已被廣
用於超大型積體電路(ULSI)與薄膜電晶體液晶顯示器之製造。然而，銅-矽間之交互作用及銅
易擴散至矽或二氧化矽基板進而於低溫下生成銅矽化合物，此對微電子製程而言為必須解決
之課題，現今的作法是於銅-矽間置一阻障層(Barrier, 如TaN)，以解決銅矽間之擴散問題。當
阻障層厚度低於5 nm，由於電子散射、晶界散射等問題，將衍生整體鍍層之電阻係數上升，
且當厚度低於5nm 其所具有之阻障性能將面臨嚴峻之挑戰。因此，無阻障層(Barrierless or 
Barrier-free)的銅製程將是一種解決方式，此係直接將具阻障層相當功能之物質以共同濺鍍方
式掺雜於純銅中，藉以提升銅鍍層的熱穩定性提高，使之不易與矽基材反應，這不但可除去
阻障層、亦可簡化製程、降低成本。因此，具高溫穩定性銅合金薄膜材料之無阻障層金屬化
製程即在此一情形下誕生。為達高溫穩定性之要求，銅合金薄膜已於許多研究中被提及。於
先前研究中亦有探討摻雜各種不互溶物質(如Mo)濺鍍銅薄膜，並發現其在高溫下之顯微組織
與高溫行為非常特別，若將之應用於材料科學則非常有價值。以射頻磁控濺鍍法(Magnetron 
Sputtering)製備掺雜不互溶物質具低電阻與漏電流之銅合金薄膜，可應用於積體電路、IC、
TFT-LCD 等微電子元件領域。因此本技術特點說明如下： 
本研究係於矽上藉由共濺鍍技術於 Ar/N2 雰圍下製備具高溫穩定性之 Cu(Ir)與 Cu(IrNx)
銅種仔層。Cu(Ir)與 Cu(IrNx)薄膜分別經 650°C 與 730°C 退火後一小時後並無觀得有銅矽化
合物生成於 Cu–Si 界面。含微量 IrNx 之銅薄膜高溫穩定性可達 730°C，且具低電阻與漏電流，
可應用為未來之先進無阻障層銅金屬化製程。高溫穩定性藉由 XRD、FIB 與 TEM 評估，並
證實 Cu(IrNx)薄膜經 730°C 退火一小時後於 Cu 薄膜與矽間並無反應，Cu(Ir)與 Cu(IrNx)薄膜
分別經 650 與 730°C 退火後之電阻值分別為 4.32 與 2.67 µΩ-cm。相較於國內外使用阻障層
      I 
 
中文摘要： 
本研究係於矽上藉由共濺鍍技術於 Ar/N2 雰圍下製備具高溫穩定性之 Cu(Ir)與 Cu(IrNx)
銅種仔層。Cu(Ir)與 Cu(IrNx)薄膜分別經 650°C 與 730°C 退火後一小時後並無觀得有銅矽化
合物生成於 Cu–Si 界面。含微量 IrNx 之銅薄膜高溫穩定性可達 730°C，且具低電阻與漏電流，
可應用為未來之先進無阻障層銅金屬化製程。高溫穩定性藉由 XRD、FIB 與 TEM 評估，並
證實 Cu(IrNx)薄膜經 730°C 退火一小時後於 Cu 薄膜與矽間並無反應，Cu(Ir)與 Cu(IrNx)薄膜
分別經 650 與 730°C 退火後之電阻值分別為 4.32 與 2.67 µΩ-cm。 
關鍵詞：銅種仔層，半導體線材，無阻障金屬化製程 
 
英文摘要： 
In this paper, we report the excellent thermal stability of Cu(Ir) and Cu(IrNx) seed layers 
sputtered on a barrierless Si substrate. These copper alloy films were fabricated by the reactive 
co-sputtering of Cu with Ir in an Ar/N2 atmosphere. Cu(Ir) and Cu(IrNx) films were annealed at 
650°C and 730°C, respectively, for 1 h, and no copper silicide formation was observed at the Cu–Si 
interface. Cu films containing traces of IrNx, which was thermally stable up to 730°C, exhibited low 
leakage current and resistivity. The stability of IrNx indicates the potential applicability of Cu(IrNx) 
to advanced barrierless metallization. The thermal performance of the Cu(IrNx) film was evaluated 
using X-ray diffraction, focused ion beam microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. The 
results of these evaluations confirmed that the seed layer–Si interface was thermally stable even 
after annealing at 730°C for 1 h. This seed layer prevented the undesired reaction of Cu with Si. The 
electrical resistivities of the Cu(Ir) and Cu(IrNx) films were 4.32 and 2.67 µΩ-cm after annealing at 
650°C and 730°C, respectively. 
 
關鍵詞：Copper Seed Layer, Liner Material, Barrierless Metallization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      2 
 
1. Introduction 
Copper metallization is preferred to 
aluminum metallization because copper has 
higher electrical conductivity and lower 
susceptibility to electromigration than 
aluminum. Accordingly, Cu has been widely 
used in the fabrication of ultra-large-scale 
integrated circuits. However, Cu metallization 
has a major drawback: Cu diffuses easily into 
the silicon or SiO2 matrix, resulting in the 
undesired formation of copper silicide. 
Therefore, electronic components are typically 
manufactured at low temperatures to prevent 
the formation of copper silicide. In general, 
the interdiffusion of Cu and Si is prevented by 
introducing a barrier layer (e.g., TaN). When 
microelectronic devices are scaled down to the 
nanometer range, their resistance increases 
because of phenomena such as electron 
scattering and grain boundary scattering [1]; 
therefore, the use of barrierless or barrier-free 
Cu metallization is essential in 
microelectronic devices. To achieve 
barrierless metallization, an immiscible 
material is co-sputtered with pure Cu to form 
a Cu alloy film. The resultant Cu alloy film 
has high thermal stability, and when 
interposed between Cu and Si, forms an 
effective reaction barrier. 
Barrierless metallization can simplify the 
manufacturing process of electronic devices, 
thereby reducing manufacturing costs. 
Moreover, Cu alloy films have enhanced 
thermal stability because the insoluble 
components of the alloy (e.g., W) [2] form 
distinct microstructures that exhibit good 
thermal properties. Hence, the alloying of Cu 
with insoluble components has several 
important applications and is crucial in 
materials science. Previous studies [2-12] 
have shown that Cu(ReN) [6] alloy films are 
thermally stable up to 730 C. Transition 　
metal nitrides have also received considerable 
attention because of their fundamental physics 
and technological applications. Recently, 
iridium nitrides were successfully synthesized 
under high pressures and at high temperatures 
[13-15]. In the present study, we investigate 
the thermal properties of Cu(Ir) and Cu(IrNx) 
films deposited on barrierless Si substrates 
after annealing these films at different 
temperatures. We also examine the thermally 
induced changes in the crystals and the 
microstructures of these alloy systems with 
the objective of elucidating the effects of these 
changes on the electrical properties (leakage 
current, resistivity, and time-dependent 
dielectric breakdown (TDDB) lifetime) of the 
alloys. 
 
2. Experimental Procedure 
Two types of 300-nm-thick Cu films 
were prepared in this study. The first film 
consisted of 0.5-at.% Ir, and 0.9-at.% N, and 
the second consisted of 0.8-at.% Ir. These 
films were deposited on barrierless Si(100) 
substrates. The Cu films were fabricated as 
follows: Cu was introduced in the Ir/N targets 
and co-sputtered under an Ar/N2 gas 
atmosphere at a pressure of 7 × 10-3 Torr. 
Hereafter, we will refer to these films as 
Cu(IrNx) and Cu(Ir) films, respectively.  
The formation of alloy films was 
confirmed by secondary ion mass 
spectroscopy (SIMS) and electron probe 
microanalysis (EPMA). The samples were 
post-annealed for 1 h in a vacuum of 10-7 Torr 
at temperatures of up to 750°C. The crystal 
structure and the microstructure of the 
annealed films were characterized by X-ray 
diffraction (XRD), X-ray photoelectron 
spectroscopy (XPS), focused ion beam (FIB) 
microscopy, transmission electron microscopy 
(TEM), and X-ray energy dispersive 
spectroscopy (EDS). The resistivity of the 
films was measured at room temperature using 
a four-point probe method, and the leakage 
current characteristics were determined from 
the current–voltage (I–V) curves of the films 
deposited on a SiO2 (350 nm)/Si 
metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) multilayer. 
The reliability of the Cu films was determined 
by evaluating their TDDB lifetimes. The 
cyclic annealing conditions were as follows: 
the vacuum pressure was set at 10-7 Torr, and 
the temperature was increased from room 
temperature up to a value in the range from 
400 to 650°C without holding for five cycles 
and at heating/cooling rates of 6.7 and 
10°C/min, respectively. The adhesion 
property of the films was evaluated by the 
pull-off strength test according to the 
American Society for Testing and Materials 
(ASTM) standard, D4541-02 [16]. 
      4 
 
because of the grain growth. When the copper 
films were annealed at 400°C, the resistivities 
of the Cu(IrNx) and Cu(Ir) films continued to 
decrease with an increase in the temperature; 
the resistivities were ~3.21–4.86 µΩ-cm at 
600°C and ~8.35–9.56 µΩ-cm at 530°C for 
isothermal annealing and cyclic annealing, 
respectively. The resistivities, however, 
increased abruptly once the annealing 
temperature exceeded the aforementioned 
temperatures, as shown in Fig. 3(a), because 
of the formation of copper silicide. The 
resistivity variations of the Cu(Ir) and Cu(IrNx) 
films after annealing at 400°C for different 
durations are shown in Fig. 3(b). The Cu(Ir) 
and Cu(IrNx) films were annealed at 400 °C 
for 190 and 230 h and for a long duration. 
The resistivity of both films exhibited a 
declining trend during the annealing process. 
As described earlier, a low resistivity indicates 
the absence of a significant reaction between 
copper and silicon during the annealing 
process. A long period of stable resistivity is 
an important criterion of the reliability 
assessment. The electrical stability of the 
Cu(IrNx) film was better than that of the Cu(Ir) 
film, since the resistivity of the former was 
2.65 µΩ-cm, while that of the latter was 3.34 
µΩ-cm. Further, the Cu(IrNx) film described 
herein exhibited a better electrical reliability 
because of its lower resistivity. Barmak et al. 
[17] studied 460-nm-thick films doped with 
4.2-at.% Ir and observed that the films 
exhibited resistivities of 25.2 µΩ-cm after 
being annealed at 400°C for 5 h. In our study, 
we fabricated Cu(IrNx) films having different 
thicknesses; for an annealing time of 1 h, 
these films exhibited a resistivity of 2.65 
µΩ-cm, which agreed well with the findings 
of Barmak et al. that annealing a film under 
certain temperatures for a sufficient time 
results in a low resistivity of the film. 
Figure 4 shows the SIMS depth profiles 
of pure Cu, Cu(Ir), and Cu(IrNx) films 
annealed at 400°C. From these profiles, we 
observed that the Cu diffusion depth of the 
Cu(IrNx) films was less than that of the Cu(Ir) 
films at the same annealing temperature. 
These findings further confirmed that the 
Cu(IrNx) films had enhanced thermal stability.  
Figure 5(a) shows the cross-sectional 
TEM images of a Cu(IrNx) film before 
annealing; in this figure, an approximately 
1.5-nm-thick native oxide layer can be 
observed between the Cu(IrNx) film and the Si 
substrate. Figure 5(b) shows the 
cross-sectional TEM images of the Cu(IrNx) 
film annealed at 730°C; in this figure, we 
observe that recrystallization occurred within 
the film, resulting in grain growth (80 ± 4 
nm). 
 
 
0
20000
40000
60000
80000
100000
120000
140000
160000
180000
200000
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6
Depth (µm)
Pure Cu
Cu(Ir)
Cu(IrNx)
400 C  Cu Depth Profile
 
Figure 4 SIMS Cu depth profiles of pure Cu, 
Cu(Ir), and Cu(IrNx) films on Si after 
annealing at 400°C for 1 h. 
  From Figs. 5(a) and 3, we can 
conclude that the decrease in the resistance of 
the film was caused by the coarse-grain 
recrystallization; this conclusion is in 
agreement with the resistivity measurement 
results (~2.65 µΩ-cm). Figure 5(b) also shows 
the thickness of the oxide layer (~2.7 nm). 
The selected-area diffraction (SAD) pattern of 
the Cu(IrNx) film, shown in Fig. 5(c), revealed 
the trace presence of IrN2 within the Cu 
matrix after the annealing process. Hence, it 
was assumed that during annealing, Ir and N 
separated out from the Cu matrix. The major 
diffraction spots in Fig. 5(c) were attributed to 
Si because the Si substrate was inevitably 
included in the 100-nm aperture during the 
diffraction pattern analysis. The composition 
and structure of the Cu(IrNx)/substrate 
interface during high-temperature annealing, 
however, could not be confirmed in this study. 
Nevertheless, the formation of reaction layers 
by the precipitation of solute atoms from the 
Cu matrix was observed in the case of Cu 
alloy systems such as Cu(7.9-at.% Mn) [18] 
and Cu(7.3-at.% Ti) [19].  
  Figure 6(a) shows the I–V curves of MOS 
capacitors fabricated by depositing pure Cu, 
Cu(Ir), and Cu(IrNx) films on the SiO2/Si 
      6 
 
(c) 
 
10 years
1.2
2.2
3.2
4.2
5.2
6.2
7.2
8.2
9.2
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5
Electric Field (MV/cm)
Pure Cu
Cu(Ir)
Cu(IrNX)
 
Figure 6(a) I–V curves obtained by depositing 
pure Cu, Cu(Ir), and Cu(IrNx) films on 
SiO2/Si substrates of MOS capacitors after 
annealing at 400°C for 1 h. (b) Typical 
leakage currents of MOS capacitors at an 
electric field strength of 2.7 MV/cm. Failure 
time is defined as the moment at which the 
current increases abruptly. (c) TDDB lifetimes 
of pure Cu, Cu(Ir), and Cu(IrNx) films as a 
function of the electric field. 
Figure 6(b) shows the I–V curves of 
three types of capacitors stressed at 2.7 
MV/cm. The results reveal an abrupt increase 
in current, indicating structural failure (Fig. 
6(b)). With the passage of time, the charges 
trapped in the oxide layer increased. The time 
required for the copper ion concentration at 
the SiO2/Si interface to reach a critical value 
was 1000 s, and that for the Cu and Cu(IrNx) 
films was 84447 s. Once the critical 
concentration was reached, a conductive path 
was formed between the cathode and the 
anode. At concentrations higher than this 
critical value, a leakage current flowed 
through the oxide layer and caused structural 
failure. At 2.7 MV/cm, the failure time for the 
pure Cu film was shorter than that for the 
Cu(IrNx) film; at the same electric field 
strength, the failure time for the pure Cu film 
was considerably shorter than that for the 
Cu(IrNx) film. This result also confirmed the 
high thermal stability of the Cu(IrNx) alloy 
film. 
Figure 6(c) shows the TDDB lifetimes of 
the pure Cu, Cu(Ir), and Cu(IrNx) films as a 
function of the electric field. A plot of the 
failure time with respect to the applied stress 
voltage indicates that the TDDB lifetimes of 
the Cu(Ir) and Cu(IrNx) films satisfied the 
10-year projected reliability. The lifetime of 
the Cu(IrNx) films was considerably longer 
than that of the Cu(Ir) and pure Cu films. This 
observation confirmed the high thermal 
stability of Cu(IrNx) films. This trend is 
similar to that observed for metal barrier 
layers such as TiN [22], Ta [22], and TaN 
[22]. 
The results of the ASTM D4541-02 
adhesion tests for the pure Cu, Cu(Ir), and 
Cu(IrNx) films deposited on the barrierless Si 
substrates before and after annealing at 600°C 
for 1 h are tabulated in Table I. In the 
as-deposited condition, the adhesion of the 
micro-alloyed films to the Si was better than 
that of a pure Cu film to the Si. The best 
adhesion strength, 6.2 MPa, found in the 
Cu(IrNx) film was approximately 2–3 times 
that of a pure Cu film. After the annealing 
process, the adhesion strength of the Cu(IrNx) 
film increased by 26.7 MPa to a value 
approximately seven times that of its pure Cu 
counterpart. The extent of this increase was 
similar to that reported for a Cu(RuNx) film 
[5]. This increase in the adhesion strength 
indicated that IrNx probably segregated in the 
film to form IrN2; however, this suggestion 
still needs to be confirmed by further 
investigation. 
 
Table I. Results of ASTM D4541-02 adhesion 
test for pure Cu, Cu(Ir), and Cu(IrNx) thin 
films before and after annealing 
 
Sample Condition Adhesion Strength (Mpa) 
As-deposited 
Cu 2.2±0.1 
Cu(Ir) 4.6±0.3 
Cu(IrNx) 6.2±0.2 
Annealed at 600°C for 1 h 
Cu 3.7±0.3 
Cu(Ir) 14.7±0.4 
Cu(IrNx) 26.7±0.1 
 
4. Summary  
Cu(Ir) and Cu(IrNx) films containing 
trace amounts of Ir and IrNx exhibited 
resistances of 4.32 and 2.67 µΩ-cm, 
respectively, when annealed at the 
corresponding temperatures of 650°C and 
730°C for 1 h and deposited on barrierless Si. 
Cu (331) 
      8 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 █撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 █申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 █洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
      10 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期： 100  年 8 月 15 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：用於新型無阻障金屬化製程之高信賴性低電阻銅合金
薄膜 
計畫主持人：林宗新         
計畫編號：NSC 99-2622-E-243-001-CC3 
領域：半導體材料 
研發成果名稱 
（中文）用於新型無阻障金屬化製程之高信賴性低電阻銅合金薄
膜 
（英文）Highly Reliable Low- Resistance Cu Alloy Film for using in
 Novel Barrierless Metallization 
成果歸屬機構 亞太創意技術學院 發明人 (創作人) 林宗新 
技術說明 
本計劃係藉濺鍍(Sputter Deposition)方式製作摻雜不互溶物質(Hf, 
Gd, V)具低電阻之高信賴性銅導線薄膜，依此與合作產商汎銓公司
進行產學合作。除探討在不同製程條件下(等溫退火、循環持溫退
火)因不互溶物質之添加對矽上之銅矽化合物抑制性、高溫穩定
性、切面顯微組織、結晶性及附著性之影響外，進而利用汎銓公
司之材料分析專業作切面顯微組織之探討(如FIB、TEM等)，依此
結果研發低電阻材料以應用於未來無阻障層銅金屬化製程。由先
期有關銅鉬等合金薄膜之研究結果顯示依濺鍍方式可製得含不互
溶物質之銅過飽和固溶相薄膜，經退火後因顯微組織改善仍具良
好性質。此外，亦可在濺鍍時導入微量氣體以改善濺鍍銅薄膜之
高溫穩定性與附著力。這些研究成果皆已發表於Applied Physics 
Letters, Journal of Material Research, Journal of Electronic Materials
等期刊（請詳見代表作）。由2006 ITRS觀察結果可知，為因應元
件細小，未來之鍍層將日趨減薄，在此條件下，信賴性為一嚴苛
議題，而摻雜微量元素於純銅中可提升銅合金薄膜之信賴性，因
此利用材料分析(特別是高倍率下之微區分析技術，如FIB、TEM)
技術開發低電阻、附著力佳的金屬材料應用於無阻障層銅金屬化
製程，電性、高溫穩定性、附著力、TDDB(Time-Dependent Dielectric 
Breakdown)量測等為本計劃之主要的研究重點，此外並進一步探
討將此等銅基無阻障層銅合金薄膜作為電極層而應用為高介電常
數氧化物薄膜製程。本計劃之研究成果可應用於未來之無阻障層
銅金屬化製程，以求趕上國際水準，進而提昇我國在這方面的國
際學術地位。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/09/06
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 用於新型無阻障金屬化製程之高信賴性低電阻銅合金薄膜
計畫主持人: 林宗新
計畫編號: 99-2622-E-243-001-CC3 學門領域: 半導體 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 用於新型無阻障金屬化製程之高信賴性低電阻銅合金薄膜
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
亞太學校財團法人亞太創意技術學院 發明人
(創作人)
林宗新
技術說明
(中文) 本計劃係藉濺鍍(Sputter Deposition)方式製作摻雜不互溶物質(Hf, Gd, V)具
低電阻之高信賴性銅導線薄膜，依此與合作產商汎銓公司進行產學合作。除探討
在不同製程條件下(等溫退火、循環持溫退火)因不互溶物質之添加對矽上之銅矽
化合物抑制性、高溫穩定性、切面顯微組織、結晶性及附著性之影響外，進而利
用汎銓公司之材料分析專業作切面顯微組織之探討(如FIB、TEM等)，依此結果研
發低電阻材料以應用於未來無阻障層銅金屬化製程。由先期有關銅鉬等合金薄膜
之研究結果顯示依濺鍍方式可製得含不互溶物質之銅過飽和固溶相薄膜，經退火
後因顯微組織改善仍具良好性質。此外，亦可在濺鍍時導入微量氣體以改善濺鍍
銅薄膜之高溫穩定性與附著力。這些研究成果皆已發表於Applied Physics 
Letters, Journal of Material Research, Journal of Electronic Materials 
等期刊（請詳見代表作）。由2006 ITRS觀察結果可知，為因應元件細小，未來
之鍍層將日趨減薄，在此條件下，信賴性為一嚴苛議題，而摻雜微量元素於純銅
中可提升銅合金薄膜之信賴性，因此利用材料分析(特別是高倍率下之微區分析
技術，如FIB、TEM)技術開發低電阻、附著力佳的金屬材料應用於無阻障層銅金
屬化製程，電性、高溫穩定性、附著力、TDDB(Time-Dependent Dielectric 
Breakdown)量測等為本計劃之主要的研究重點，此外並進一步探討將此等銅基無
阻障層銅合金薄膜作為電極層而應用為高介電常數氧化物薄膜製程。本計劃之研
究成果可應用於未來之無阻障層銅金屬化製程，以求趕上國際水準，進而提昇我
國在這方面的國際學術地位。
(英文) As part of our research carried out in collaboration with Material Science Service (汎銓
科技股份有限公司), we employed the sputter deposition technique to fabricate low-
resistance thin films doped with insoluble elements (Hf, Gd, V) on copper wires. We 
investigate the effect of various production conditions such as isothermal annealing and 
cyclic annealing on the film properties such as compatibility between silicon and copper, 
thermal stability, cross-sectional microstructure, crystallinity, and adhesiveness; further, 
we utilized the expertise of Material Science Service for performing microstructural 
analysis by FIB and TEM. The low-resistivity materials produced in this study can be 
used in the research and development of impedance-free copper alloys. 
產業別 電機及電子機械器材業
技術/產品應用範圍
摻雜不互溶物質之無阻障層銅合金薄膜技術應用範圍涵蓋導電材料、金屬材料、無鉛焊
料等電子封裝製程範圍
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
掺雜不互溶物質之無阻障層銅導線薄膜技術有利台灣半導體整體技術的提昇具技轉可行性
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
林定言、張銓、朱瑾、林宗新，’Characterization of Sputtered Amorphous 
HoScO3 Film on Pt and Cu-based Electrodes’，台灣鍍膜科技協會年會(TACT 
2010)暨國科會專題計畫研究成果發表會論文集, 彰化明道大學，in CD-ROM。
(海報論文佳作獎) 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
