1行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
The Study of the Automatic Microfluidic System Integrated with
Pump/Mixer/Separator/RT-PCR for Multiple Viruses Detection
計 畫 編 號：NSC－96－2218－E－214－011
執 行 期 限：96年 10月 01日至 97年 09月 30日
主 持 人：林志龍 執行機構及單位名稱: 義守大學機動系
一、中文摘要
本文的研究目的在設計並利用微機電製程，製造全新
自動化微型整合系統，整合幫浦，閥門，磁分離器和
反轉入聚合酶連鎖反應等模組於同一晶片。一個新型
三對雙邊側進室氣動式的微流體幫浦，被發展用來自
動地傳送病毒樣品。透過使用披覆抗體的磁珠，其具
有高靈敏性和特殊性來吸附病毒。再使用一個二維/三
維的電磁鐵當作分離機構，將此磁珠在流體之樣品中
分離。 這種方法，將使病毒能被純化且集中。因此，
當微型線圈施以不同的直流電時，不同型態的微型線
圈將同時產生磁場與溫度場。因而，磁場與溫度效應
對本文研究是重要課題，然後此現象將被研究與探
討。同時地，不同形態的微型線圈對磁珠的吸附率將
被調查。此基礎的研究將有助於最佳化設計一幫浦、
磁分離器、與反轉入聚合酶連鎖反應等模組整合於系
統上。更近一步，將朝多樣品疾病自動檢測系統發展。
此整合型晶片全程自動化，這項技術將提供我們強有
力工具以有效率和快速方法來偵測病毒。
關鍵詞：微機電、幫浦、磁分離器、反轉入聚合酶連
鎖反應
Abstract
The current study aimed to design and fabricate a new
integrated device incorporating a pump, valves, a
bio-separator and a reverse transcription polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR) chamber onto a chip by using
Micro-electro-mechanical-system (MEMS) technology.
The new pneumatically microfluidic pumps layout the
3-pair double-side chambers was also reported to
automatically delivery virus samples. By using
antibody-conjugated magnetic beads, the viruses were
then purified and enriched by a magnetic field generated
by 2-D or 3-D microcoils. Hence, the magnetic and
temperature effect generated by the different modes of
2-D and 3-D microcoils were an important issue and thus
were investigated in this study. Meanwhile, the different
type of microcoils will be investigated for the separating
effect and trapping ratio. The fundamental study facilitates
to the design of fabrication for the optimum device
consisted of a pump, a separator and RT-PCR.
Furthermore, the new integrated chips could be used to
automatically detect the multiple samples of virus in the
future. The success of the proposed microfluidic system
will assure us to have a powerful tool to detect virus in an
efficient and fast way.
Keywords: MEMS, pump, bio-separator, RT-PCR
1. Introduction
In the past decade, MEMS technology and
micromachining techniques have enabled the
miniaturization of biomedical devices and systems. Since
the introduction of the concept of micro total analysis
systems (μ-TAS) was introduced, multiple technologies of
microfluidic systems have been developed. Microfluidic
systems have made significant influence on biomedical
applications and chemical analyses. Transportation of
fluids in microstructures has been critical for miniaturized
biomedical systems [1]. Various fluidic operations in
microfluidic systems, such as sample preparation, sample
injection, sample manipulation, reaction, separation, and
detection, were successfully demonstrated in the field of
biotechnological application [2]. The microfluidic systems
f are advantage of reduced reagent consumption and waste
generation, fast reaction times, and a large
surface-to-volume ratio, offering an intrinsic compatibility
between the use of a microfluidic system and
surface-based assays.
Recently, many approaches have been developed to
automatically delivery the bio-sample in the microfluidic
system. Several ways were used to drive fluids inside
microchannels such as electroosmotic micropumps [3],
piezoelectric micropumps [4], magnetic micropumps [5]
pneumatic micropumps [6] and pneumatic rotary
micropump [7]. Among them, the pneumatic micropump
using the PDMS actuated membrane is one of the most
commonly used and reliable methods.
Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) has several
advantages such as system simplification, easily
fabrication, low manufacturing cost and excellent control
capability. PDMS biocompatibility has been checked for
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) [8], cell sorting, and
bacteria analysis, [9, 10] thus strengthing the relevance of
this particular material for biological application. In
PDMS technology, active elements are fabricated using
multilayer soft lithography technique. Valves formed at
the intersection between a fluid channel and the actuated
channels located in two separated layers. When the
pressure is imported into the actuated channels, the
membranes separating the two channels deflects and
closes the fluid channel, blocking the flow inside.
Assembling three valves in a series, it can be fabricated
the peristaltic pumps. Currently, a rotary pump has been
3membranes can be used as microvalves if the PDMS
membrane is deflected completely so that the fluid flow is
blocked in the microchannels. Therefore, the transporting
processes is completed automatically using the
microfluidic control module.
Notably, a microcontroller AT89C51 (ATMEL Corp.,
USA) was used to control the microfluidic control module
by providing digital signals to regulate the EMVs through
a metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor
(MOSFET) that causes the thin PDMS membranes to
deflect pneumatically under the applied compressed air
pressure. All the control modules, comprising a
microcontroller, a control circuit, four EMVs, and an air
compressor (Model P05, Ever Motor Electronic Co.,
Japan) are integrated into a hand-held system [14]. An
integrated micro devices were designed as shown in
Figure 3. The major contribution of the current study is to
design and fabricate a new pneumatic peristaltic pump by
using 3-pair double-side chambers (Figs. 3-a and 3-b)
embedded with 6 sets of 3-D micro-coils (Fig. 3-c)or 2-D
microcoil arrays (Fig. 3-d) for separating and collecting
virus samples on a chip. The integrated system (Fig. 3-e)
comprises three modules, namely a microfluidic control
module, a bead-collection (separation) module and micro
thermal control module, respectively. The microfluidic
integrated system was controlled automatically by a
digital controller (Fig. 3-f).
2.3 Fabrication
A simplified fabrication process of the microfluidic
integrated system for rapidly automatic virus detection
was detailed to describe in References [13, 26]. The
process involves two major steps including the
bead-collection module, the PDMS microfluidic control
module and thermal module. The briefly fabrication of
micropump by using standard lithography process [13]
and 3-D micro-electromagnets have been fabricated using
a standard lithography and electroplating processes [26].
2-D microcoil array and microheaters were fabricated
by using the screen printing technology. Screen printing is
a standard technology in electronics. Recently, it is also
used for large-scale production of inexpensive planar
electrodes.
2.4 Experimental setup
The performance of the pumping, mixing and
separating is systematically explored by using a
Charge-Coupled Device (CCD; Model TE/CCD512TKM,
Roper Scientific, Princeton, NJ, U.S.A.) for the capture of
the pictures. The temperature uniformity of the
microthermal cyclers was verified by an infrared (IR)
imager (Infrared Thermography TVS-200N, Nippon
Avionics Co Ltd., Japan). The samples used are
de-ionized (DI) water, fluorescent dye, magnetic beads
coating with antibody were used to charactize the
performance of the microfluidic system.
3. Results and Discussion
In the developed microfluidic system, the
characterization of the microfluidic control module,
bead-collection module and thermal control module, is
performed and is described as follows.
3.1 Characterization of the micropump
Figure 4 shows a schematic representation of the
micro-pump utilizing the 3-pair moving wall structures.
The transporting region between the six buried
side-chambers and the flow channel was formed by the
controllable moving wall structure. While the side
chambers are activated pneumatically by the compressed
air, the moving wall can squeeze in a series and induce the
flow field to generate the transporting effect. By utilizing
different applied pressures, the deformation of the moving
wall structure can be precisely controlled, and the
frequencies of the moving wall deformation can also be
adjusted by electromagnetic valves (EMV) to control the
operation frequency of the compressed air injected into
the buried side chambers to generate a pumping rate.
(a) (b) (c)
(d) (e) (f)
Figure 3. Photographes of micro devices were shown as
follows. SU-8 template structures of (a) 3-pair double-side
chambes and (b) a micropump chip. Bio-separator made of
(c) 6 set 3-D micro-coils and (d) 2-D micro-coil arrays and
microheater. (e) The prosed integrate micrfluidic chip and
(f)the digital controller.
pump
mixer
microcoils
heaters
PCR chamber
Figure 2 A schematic diagram of the microfluidic chip.
Several components including a pump, a mixer, a
separator and PCR chamber are integrated onto a
single chip.
527 39 50 61 73
30 37 44 51 58
30 45 60 80 95
(a)
magnetic beads both at the fluid inlet and at the fluid
outlet. The counting of magnetic beads was performed by
using a flow cytometer (FACScan, Becton-Dickinson,
USA) and the initial concentration of the magnetic beads
was fixed as 107 beads ml-1. The trapping ratio ( ) is
calculated as follows:
%100
N
N
inj
trap
trap 
Here Ntrap and Ninj are total number of trapped beads
and total number of injected beads. The trapping ratio was
measured to be about 87.0% and 80.0% for the 2-D and
3-D microcoils, respectively, at a mean flow velocity of
0.83 mm s-1. The 2-D microcoils exhibited a more
effective trapping ratio than the 3-D ones. A higher
trapping rate can be achieved if a higher DC current is
applied. However, in order to avoid adverse temperature
effects, we used a DC current of 0.5 A to maintain a
temperature of less than 37 oC. Moreover, it is clearly seen
from Fig. 7 that the trapping ratio decreases with the
increasing the mean flow velocities.
3.3 Characterization of the microheater
In this study, the temperature sensors and the heater
region were designed inside the micro PCR chamber. The
micro heater is made of the ITO (indium tin oxide) glass
(300 Ω/□, Ritek corp., Taiwan). The dimension of the
heating region is 5.4 × 5.4 mm2 equipped with a heat sink.
PCR thermal cycles consist of a thermal process protocol,
including a denaturing process of 95C for denaturation of
the double-stranded DNA into two single-stranded DNA
segments, an annealing process of 57C) for hybridization
of the primers flanking the two ends of the genes, and a
DNA extension process of 72C for duplicating two
identical DNA segments. During the PCR process, the
amount of double-stranded DNA with a specific segment
is theoretically doubled through the thermal cycling
process.The temperature contour of denaturation,
annealing and extension were shown in Figures 8(a), 8(b)
and 8(c), respectively. Temperature contours captured by
IR images distributed inside the heating region. The
accuracy of the temperature measurement is ±0.5C. This
result demonstrated the proposed on-chip micro thermal
heater can generate the temperature uniformity in the
heating region.
(b)
(c)
4. Conclusions
This study has demonstrated a hand-held, integrated
microfluidic system. Virus samples have been
automatically successfully pumping, been collected, and
been heated by using the magnetic beads. Moreover, the
new microfluidic system, which integrated a pump, a
separator, and heaters, can become a crucial platform in
biological and medical applications for rapid clinical
Figure 7 Trapping ratio of 2-D and 3-D
microcoils at different flow velocities.
0
20
40
60
80
100
0 1 2 3 4 5
Velocity (mm/sec)
2D microcoils
3D microcoils
Tr
ap
pi
ng
ra
tio
(%
)
Velocity ( m/s
2-D coils
3-D coils
Figure 8 Temperature contour inside PCR
chamber for the denaturing temperature of 96, 57
and 72 oC, respectively .
