 摘要  
本文中，我們發展一非守恆形式表示之最小平方有限元素淺水方程式模式。本模式可應
用於複雜地形、恆態或非恆態流、亞臨界或超臨界流，以及緩變或急變流場之模擬。我
們以水流經一障礙物與潰壩問題驗證本模式，計算之結果與解析解或其他數值解比較，
顯示滿足守恆且非常精準；再將模式應用於水流經過一圓柱之模擬，結果能確切模擬圓
柱周圍水面變化及圓柱後方之渦流射出現象，與實驗數據及他人計算結果非常吻合。 
關鍵字: 最小平方有限元素法、淺水方程式、潰壩、渦流射出 
 
ABSTRACT 
A least-squares finite-element method (LSFEM) for the non-conservative shallow-water 
equations is presented. The model is capable of handling complex topography, steady and 
unsteady flows, subcritical and supercritical flows, and flows with smooth and sharp gradient 
changes. The model is verified with flow over a bump and dam-breaking. Computed results 
compared well with analytic solutions or other numerical results, and show the model is 
conservative and accurate. The model is then used to simulate flow past a circular cylinder. 
Important flow characteristics, such as variation of water surface around the pier and vortex 
shedding behind the pier are investigated. Computed results agree well with experiment data 
and other numerical results. 
Key words: least-square finite-element method, shallow-water equations, dam-break, 
vortex shedding 
 
1. Introduction
The shallow-water equations have wide range applications in ocean, environmental and hydraulic 
engineering, such as, tidal flows in estuary and coastal regions, and open-channel flows in rivers and 
reservoirs. Research on methods of solution of the shallow-water equations has received considerable 
attention in the past three decades. There are many computational methods for the shallow-water 
equations, such as the finite-difference methods (Causon et al., 2000), finite-volume methods (Mingham 
and Causon, 1998), finite-element methods (Laibel and Pinder 1993), Godunov-type method (Alcrudo and 
Garcia-Navarro, 1993; Fennema and Chaudhry, 1990), and lattice Boltzmann method (Zhou, 2002). 
The least-squares finite-element method (LSFEM) for approximating the solution of boundary value 
problems of partial differential equations has been studied at least three decades (Bochev and Gunzburg, 
1998; Jiang, 1998). In the engineering literature, for solving Stokes and Navier-Stokes equations by the 
LSFEMs, the L2 LSFEMs are the most popular one because L2 LSFEM exhibit theoretical and 
computational advantages in the algorithmic design and implementation. We have applied the LSFEM to 
Stokes equations and Navier-Stokes equations (Liang and Jan, 2006) in previous studies. In this study, we 
applied the method to 2D shallow-water equations. 
2. Numerical Model 
In this section, the 2D shallow-water equations are introduced, and the L2 least-squares finite-element 
method for the shallow-water equations are then described. 
2.1 Govern Equations 
The 2D shallow-water equations (SWE) in differential non-conservative form the equations are 
  
0 Ch h U h VU h V h f
t x x y y
∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂+ + + + = =∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂  (1a) 
( ) ( )( )
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
( ) ( )
, , ,
 
+  
h
h h h d
t t
g h g d
t t
ψ
ψ ψ ψ
ψ
Ω
Ω
ℜ
∂ ∂⎛ ⎞ ⎛= + ⋅∇ + ∇⋅ ⋅ + ⋅∇ + ∇⋅ ⎞ Ω⎜ ⎟ ⎜∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝
∂ ∂⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞+ ⋅∇ + ∇ ⋅ + ⋅∇ + ∇ Ω⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
∫
∫
U V
U U V V
U VU U V V
⎟⎠  (10) 
and  ℑ is the functional, 
( )( ) ( ) ( )
( )
,  
                 +  
c
M
f d
t
g d
t
ψψ ψ ψ
ψ
Ω
Ω
∂⎛ ⎞ℑ = + ⋅∇ + ∇⋅⎜ ⎟∂⎝ ⎠
∂⎛ ⎞+ ⋅∇ + ∇ Ω⎜ ⎟∂⎝ ⎠
∫
∫
V V
Vf V V
ΩV
)
 (11) 
2.3 Finite element model 
The least-squares discrete finite-element model for the shallow-water equations is then given by the 
following discrete variational problem: 
Find , such that for all ( ,h hh U ( ),h hψ V  
( ) ( )( ) ( ), , , ,h h h h h hh ψ ψℜ =ℑU V V  (12) 
We proceed to define a discrete problem by choosing appropriate finite-element subspaces for water depth 
( )h  and velocity ( . There are no restrictive compatibility conditions, such as the LBB condition, on the 
discrete spaces, so we choose the same finite-element subspace for all variables. 
)U
3. Computed Results 
The mass conservation and accuracy of the model is examined by comparing the numerical solutions with 
analytic solutions, available numerical results, and/or experimental data in this section. 
3.1 Steady Flow over a Bump 
A 1D steady flow in a 25 m long, 1 m wide channel with a bump defined by 
 ( )20.2 0.05 10     8 12 
        0                      b
x if xZ
otherwise
⎧ − − ≤ ≤⎪=⎨⎪⎩
 (13) 
is considered, as illustrated in Figure 1. The water level h = 2 m is imposed at downstream boundary, and 
a discharge Q = 4.42  is imposed at the upstream boundary, respectively. 250 x 1 uniform four-node 
quadrilateral elements are used for computing. Other parameters used for the simulation are length L = 50 
m, width B = 1 m, and 
3 /m s
0.1 t sΔ = . Comparison of the computed steady water surface with the analytic 
solution is plotted in Figure 2, showing an excellent agreement. Comparison of the computed mass with 
the theoretical one is shown in Figure 3. The maximum relative error for the mass conservation is smaller 
than 0.028%. This suggests that the model is conservative and accurate, even though the formulation is 
based on the non-conservative form of the shallow-water equations, Eq (1). 
3.2 2D Dam-Break 
This problem models a partial dam-break for rapid opening of a sluice gate with nonsymmetric breach. 
The computational domain is 200 m x 200 m, with a horizontal bottom. A dam, with 10 m in thickness, is 
located in the middle of the domain. The initial upstream and downstream water depth is 10 m and 5 m, 
respectively. At t = 0, the dam fails, water is released through the 75 m wide, nonsymmetric breach, as 
shown in Figure 4, forming a bore wave that propagates downstream while spreading laterally and a 
depression wave that moves upstream. This is the same problem investigated by Fennema and Chaudhry 
(1998) and Mingham and Causon (1998).  
A 40 x 40 four-node quadrilateral elements, shown in Figure 4, and 0.2 stΔ =  are used for simulation. 
Free slip (tangential) and zero normal flux boundary conditions are applied to the walls. Simulation starts 
with flow at rest initially. Computed results at t = 7.2 s, when the waves have not yet reached all the 
boundaries, are illustrated in Figure 5. The right traveling bore wave and left traveling depression wave 
are both well resolved. Computed water surface elevation and vector filed compare favorably with those 
obtained by Mingham and Causon (1998), as illustrated in Figures 5. The form and propagating speed of 
10. Zhou JG. A lattice Boltzmann model for the shallow water equations. Computer Methods in Applied 
Mechanics and Engineering 2002; 191: 3527-39. 
 
Table 1.  Parameters used for flow past a circular cylinder. 
 
Q Upstream discharg 0.248 per unit width 3 /m s
oh  Downstream water depth 0.185 m 
α  Bed slope   46 .2 5  x  1 0  −−
ρ  Density of water 1,000   3/kg m
μ  The dynamic viscosity coefficient 15   2/N s m⋅
n The Manning coefficient 0.012  1/ 3/m s
 
 
Figure 1. Steady subcritical flow over a bump: Illustration of the profile of water surface and bottom. 
 
Figure 2. Steady subcritical flow over a bump: Comparison of the water surface. 
 
Figure 3. Steady subcritical flow over a bump: Comparison of discharge. 
 
Figure 4. Computational mesh for 2D dam-break. 
 
(c) 
 
Figure 7. Flow past a cylinder: Comparison of contours of the water depth: (a) experiment from 
Yulistiyanto et al. (1998), (b) lattice Boltzmann solution from Zhou (2002), and (c) computation of 
the present study, respectively. 
 
Figure 8. Flow past a cylinder: Comparison of water depth along the centerline. 
 
 (a) 
 
(b)  
 
 (c) 
Figure 9. Flow past a cylinder: Comparison of velocity vectors: (a) experiment from Yulistiyanto et al. 
(1998), (b) lattice Boltzmann solution from Zhou (2002), and (c) computation of the present study, 
respectively. 
而使用麻薯網格模擬相變問題，不但計算簡單、快速，而且可以成功追蹤介面之變化，
且介面之厚度限制在一個計算網格寬度。 
由於電腦與網路技術之提升，以及各行各業之應用普及，計算方法之研究與應用
變得非常重要。此次會議結合學界、業界、以及工程與科學界學者、專家，使本次會
議更多元，並暸解計算方法之可能應用，與未來研究方向，對於提升個人的視野及思
維有極大的幫助。參與國際研討會，除可增加見聞及廣結人脈外，對於個人的研究及
參與國際合作也有助益。個人研究可藉由研討會發表，聽取各界專家的建議，使發表
的論文更趨完善，對日後投稿國際期刊有相當的幫助。 
 
二、與會心得 
出席本會議主要目的： 
1. 發表一篇論文，Application of the mushy cell tracking method for Gallium Melting。 
2. 蒐集實驗流力與計算力學研究之最新資訊與方向。 
3. 與國外從事實驗流力與計算力學之專家學者交換心得與意見，並建立未來可能合
作關係。 
由於此次會議結合工程與科學界計算方法學者、專家，使本次會議更多元，對於
提升個人的視野及思維有極大的幫助。重要心得為了解實驗流體力學與計算流體力學
之發展與應用，包括實驗方法、計算方法、計算流力、平行計算之研究等 
 
三、建議 
由於此次會議結合工程與科學界計算方法學者、專家，使本次會議更多元，對於
提升個人的視野及思維有極大的幫助。參與國際研討會，除可增加見聞及廣結人脈外，
對於個人的研究及參與國際合作也有助益。個人研究可藉由研討會發表，聽取各界專
家的建議，使發表的論文更趨完善，對日後投稿國際期刊有相當的幫助。建議應該多
鼓勵研究人員，尤其是新進的研究人員，參與國際研討會。 
有關計算力學問題的研究，由於計算機的運算功能快速提昇，以及計算方法的改
進，許多已往較複雜、三維，無法以電腦模擬之流場問題，已漸漸被克服，成為研究
與設計上之有利工具。雖然理論上，由二維的計算推廣至三維並無困難，但是整個計
算範圍的前、後處理（pre- and post-processing)、網格生成（mesh generation），計算結
果視覺化（visualization），卻會比二維的計算來地複雜，故如何有效發展相關研究的
