 I
中文文本分析技術的開發和應用 
 
摘要 
 
中文語言處理技術的開發隨著華文學習與使用在全球各地日受重視而愈趨重要。因
此，本計畫將進行中文文本分析技術的開發，包括指代消解、語篇分析，與中文作文分析
系統上的應用。本年度計畫裡，我們進行中文文件中的空指代和代名詞指代消解研究，並
開發了實用的指代消解技術。主要工作包括標記語料庫的建立、名稱實體的辨識、特徵值
抽取、語意標記、指代現象偵測、指代關係的回復與效能衡量。我們分別以基於語料統計
及機器學習的方法進行實驗與分析，同時也整合可用的知識庫及語料資源，進而提升整個
消解程序的正確率。在空指代消解上，我們提出以案例式推論結合詞彙資源的方法來進行
空指代消解，實驗結果顯示，在 1047 個空指代中獲得 77%準確率。在代名詞指代消解上，
我們利用網路探勘技術來獲取相關的屬性值，在 651 個代名詞指代中得到 83.8%準確率，
相較於以規則為主的方法，準確率可達 9%的提升。 
 
 
關鍵詞：自然語言處理、指代消解、知識庫、機器學習、網路探勘 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
中文文本分析技術的開發和應用 
 
一、前言 
本計畫第一年我們進行指代消解問題的研究，指代是一種常見的語言表示法，可分空
指代(zero anaphora)，代名詞指代(pronominal anaphora)，以及名詞指代(nominal anaphora)。
例如: 
空指代: 張豐緒１由於在國民黨十四全大會中，φ 1被劃分為非當權派的投票系統，φ 1當
選了中央委員。  
代名詞指代: 張豐緒1若能繼續當選連任中華奧會主席，他1當然會堅守國民黨中央委員
的崗位。 
名詞指代: 美國食品藥物管理局(FDA)周五要求三種暢銷氣喘藥1在說明書上加註新警
示，提醒患者這些藥1可能增加嚴重哮喘發作並致死的機會。 
其中空指代在中文文本結構中最為常見，以達到所指物件在話語中的連貫性。在文本
中指代運用的方式非常豐富多樣。例如可以指代單一或複數實體物件、亦可指代抽象、複
雜的概念或事件等。在修辭的用法上，它可使行文清楚簡潔，避免冗長重複的相關敘述，
因此指代消解在文本理解處理中是非常重要的一項工作。例如在一般的答問系統或閱讀測
驗答問系統上，有效的指代消解，將有助於正確答案的萃取。其它的應用還包括自動摘要、
機器翻譯、和作文評分中主題的認定與一致性檢查等。 
 
二、研究目的 
中文指代消解問題探討包括空指代，代名詞指代，以及名詞指代。我們將開發有效實
用的指代消解技術，進而建製一個可應用在中文文件的理解系統。主要工作包括標記語料
庫的建立、名稱實體的辨識、特徵值抽取、語意標記、指代現象偵測、指代關係的回復與
標記。分別以基於語料統計及機器學習的方法進行實驗與分析，同時整合可用的知識庫(如
中英文雙語知識本體詞網、CKIP Lexicon 等)及語料資源(網路語料)，進而提升整個消解程
序的正確率。 
 
三、文獻探討 
指代問題的相關研究中，英文文獻對於指代現象的研究有較久的歷史，在傳統的作法
中，指代消解的研究多利用語法、語意及語用上的線索來辨識指代詞與先行詞之間的關係。
直到近年來，一些統計方法、人工智慧及網路探勘的學習演算法也應用在這個研究領域中。
大多數的研究皆集中於代名詞指代的現象，對於名詞指代的處理止佔了少部分的比例。除
此之外，指代消解對象也僅侷限在名詞片語的部分，對於非名詞片語的部分仍是有待研究
的方向，如事件、狀態或動作的描述等，故對這一類的問題尚待更進一步的研究。 
在中文中針對指代消解的研究文獻相對上少了許多，且大多侷限在語言學理論的探
討，而少有實際利用演算法來處理這個問題。其原因在於中英文間所存在的語言性質差異，
如中文慣用的省略用法、語法結構鬆散、與數量性別特徵不顯著等問題。近年來在計算語
言領域的發展中，在同指涉問題中有[游基鑫, ‘00]，建立了中文 Named Entity (NE) 以及同
指涉的測試環境，利用 [Cardie, ‘99]的演算法來處理，得到 45.31% 的F-Measure；其同指
涉對象皆以名詞片語為主。針對中文空指代的處裡，Chen et al. [‘05]等人以詞性標記取代深
度剖析，針對句間空指代的現象進行消解，主要的貢獻在於利用中央理論與限制規則來辨
識空指代的先行詞，並將其應用於文件分類及資訊檢索問題上。在150篇新聞語料中實驗結
果的準確率為81%而召回率為70%；但基於中央理論的限制，對於句內空指代的現象則無法
處理。此外，Wang et al. [‘02]則結合領域特徵提出一個過濾規則及評分規則集，並在此基
礎上設計一個針對金融領域的指代消解系統，但其系統移植性則相對薄弱。Wang et al. [‘98] 
等人，設計一個event-based approach來處理中文語段間的關聯，處理的部分則侷限在幾個小
句所組成的長句中，對於較長篇本文的語境變化及事件應用則不在處理範圍內。 
有鑑於先前的研究多限定在句間指代問題、特定領域、或依賴語法的角度來進行分析，
 1
 3
解，其中對於名詞片語的性別資訊，我們以三階段的方式循序處理。首先，針對可以在詞
庫中找到的名詞進行標記，其次，根據六類判定性別的樣型(如稱謂、修飾詞、對應角色、
反身代名詞、所有格、及補語推論)，在本文中搜尋符合的條件。最後，則是以樣型為查詢
詞提交到搜尋引擎中，以網頁頻率決定性別屬性值。對於名詞片語的數量資訊，則以線索
詞比對的方式來處理。在語意相容資訊的部分，我們以三類樣型(如主詞-動詞、動詞-受詞、
及所有格-名詞)來判定，將代名詞以候選詞作替代，並到搜尋引擎中來決定相對的頻率。最
後先行詞的辨識則是以加權後的特徵值總合為依據。 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
1. 研究內容：在中文空指代消解問題中，我們提出以案例式推論結合詞彙資源的方法來進
行空指代消解。目前我們以中研院平衡語料庫中以標記詞性的文章進行測試，在 1047
個空指代中獲得 77%準確率。在代名詞指代消解上，我們利用網路探勘技術來獲取相關
的屬性值，在 651 個代名詞指代中獲得 83.8%準確率。 
2. 達成預期目標情況：  
(1)名稱實體辨識器之建構 
(2)中文名詞片語有限自動機辨識系統 
(3)整合線上資源與知識庫作為各項特徵值萃取的依據 
(4)語意類別標記及相關語句樣型統計分析 
(5)以案例式推論進行空指代消解 
(6)以網路探勘進行代名詞消解 
3. 研究發表成果：本計畫部分研究成果如下： 
(1)Dian-Song Wu and Tyne Liang “A Case-Based Reasoning Approach to Zero Anaphora 
Resolution in Chinese Texts,” Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 4285, pp.520-531 
(accept rate 38/169=23%) 
(2) Dian-Song Wu and Tyne Liang “Empirical Chinese Pronominal Anaphora Resolution by 
Lexical Knowledge Acquisition and Semantic Compatibility Extraction” (in preprint) 
(3) Dian-Song Wu and Tyne Liang “Zero Anaphora Resolution by Case-based Reasoning 
and Pattern Conceptualization” (in preprint) 
 
六、參考文獻 
1. Cardie, C. and Wagstaff, K., (1999), “Noun Phrase Coreference as Clustering,” In Proceedings 
of the Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Very 
Large Corpora. 
2. Chen, Y. C., (2005), “Chinese Zero Anaphora Resolution and Its Applications,” Ph.D. 
Dissertation, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Tatung University. 
3. Liang,T., Yeh, C. H. and Wu D. S., (2003), "A Corpus-based Categorization for Chinese Proper 
Nouns", In Proceedings of the National Computer Symposium, pp. 434-443. 
4. Wang, N., Yuan, C., Wang, K. F. and Li, W., (2002), “Anaphora Resolution in Chinese 
Financial News for Information Extraction,” In Proceedings of 4th World Congress on 
Intelligent Control and Automation, pp.2422-2426. 
5. Wang, Y. K., Chen, Y. H., and Hsu, W. L., (1998), “Empirical Study of Mandarin Chinese 
Discourse Analysis: An event-based approach,” In Proceedings of the 10th IEEE International 
Conference on Tools with AI, pp. 466-473. 
6. 游基鑫,(2000),“中文資訊擷取環境建構與同指涉問題之研究,” 國立臺灣大學,資訊工程
學研究所,碩士論文。 
A Case-Based Reasoning Approach to Zero Anaphora Resolution 521
texts. However, any rule-based approach is essentially lacks of portability to
other domains. Yeh and Chen [12] resolved zero anaphora by using centering
theory and constraint rules. Though they had 65% F-score, yet they tackle the
inter-sentential zero anaphors only. Contrast to the shallow parsing used by
Yeh and Chen [12], Converse [13] used full parsing results from Penn Chinese
Treebank for pronominal and zero anaphora resolution. Since less features were
used at resolving intra-sentential zero anaphora, the overall resolution is not
promising.
Xu [2] reported that zero anaphora is the most common phenomenon than
pronominal and nominal anaphora in Chinese written texts. The zero anaphors
can be in single sentence or in consecutive sentences. In this paper, the presented
resolution is aimed to tackle both inter and intra sentential zero anaphora by
exploiting more semantic information with the help of outer knowledge resources.
The animate relation between nouns and verbs is acquired from the resources
to improve the presented anaphora resolution. The kernel resolution module
is embedded with a case-based reasoning (CBR) mechanism for its beneﬁts in
new knowledge acquisition [14]. Essentially such incremental learning approach
is able to achieve optimal performance. In our design, the discovery of similar
cases allows us to identify reference patterns and select possible antecedents.
The experimental results on 1047 instances show that the presented approach
can yield promising zero anaphora resolution in terms of 82% recall and 77%
precision.
The remaining part of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 intro-
duces the Chinese sentence structures and zero anaphora. Section 3 describes
the overall procedure of the proposed resolution in details. Section 4 gives the
experimental results and analysis from diﬀerent aspects. Section 5 is the ﬁnal
conclusions.
2 Chinese Sentence Structure and Zero Anaphora
In the survey of Xu [2], there are ﬁve basic types of simple sentence structures
in Chinese. A simple sentence is deﬁned to be a sentence bounded by punctua-
tion marks like ”,,,,,” [15,16]. Several consecutive simple sentences
form a complex sentence. In the following examples, we describe the sentence
structures and the zero anaphors denoted by ””. The intra-sentential cases
are in Examples 2 and 3; inter-sentential cases are in other examples of complex
sentences.
Example 1. SVO sentence: It can be ”subject + transitive-verb + object”
and ”subject + intransitive-verb”. Zero anaphors may occur in the position of
subject or object.
           
Li xiansheng mai le yixie pingguota de haizimen du chiwan  le
(Mr. Li bought some apples. His children ate (apples) up.)
A Case-Based Reasoning Approach to Zero Anaphora Resolution 523
Fig. 1. The presented Chinese zero anaphora resolution procedure
sequentially. If a word sequence can be recognized from the initial state and ends
in a ﬁnal state, it is accepted as a base noun phrase with no recursion, otherwise
rejected.
In addition, unlike western languages, Chinese grammar has little inﬂection
information. Chinese verbs appear in the same form no matter whether they
are used as nouns, adjectives, or adverbs [18]. The following examples show the
usage for each of four cases by the word ”” (”relax”).
Example 6. Verb case:
(D)(VHC)(Nh)(DE)(Na)
Shichang fangsong ziji de qingxu
(A person must often relax his own emotion.)
Example 7. Noun case:
(Nep)	(VH)(VJ)(Na)(DE)(VHC)
Zhe zhijie yingxiangdao xinqing de fangsong
(This will inﬂuence the release of mood directly.)
Example 8. Adjective case:
(P)(Na)(VHC)(DE)
(Na)
Zai renti fangsong de zhuantai
(In the relaxed condition of body,)
A Case-Based Reasoning Approach to Zero Anaphora Resolution 525
is a ZA example. If necessary, this retrieved example will be revised to be a ﬁnal
version. Then the new version, its context and resolution will be retained in the
case base. Figure 2 illustrates the procedure of the presented CBRM which is in
charge of the communication between the ZA resolution and the outer resources.
The module functions are summarized as follows:
1. Retrieve the most similar example w.r.t. the input sentence.
2. Reuse the resolution method of the most similar example on the basis of
their feature and sentence pattern.
3. Revise the resolution process manually if there is any error.
4. Retain the reﬁned example into case base.
Fig. 2. The procedure of case-based reasoning module
Lexicon Resources. As mentioned above, two outer resources are used during
ZA resolution to acquire informative features like animacy attribute of nouns
and verbs. The resources are CKIP lexicon [20] and The Academia Sinica Bilin-
gual WordNet (SinicaBOW), both of them were released from The Association
for Computational Linguistics and Chinese Language Processing. CKIP lexicon
contains 80,000 entries annotated with syntactic categories and semantic roles.
For example, ”	” (”writer”), ””(”commander”),””(”customer”) are
regarded as animate nouns. SinicaBOW is a Mandarin-English bilingual data-
base based on the frame of English WordNet and language usage in Taiwan.
There are four kinds of verbs, as shown in Table 1, as animate verbs, namely,
{cognition}, {communication}, {emotion}, and {social}.
A Case-Based Reasoning Approach to Zero Anaphora Resolution 527
Table 3. Case representation in the case base
Table 4. Description of template features
A Case-Based Reasoning Approach to Zero Anaphora Resolution 529
Fig. 3. F-score after applying resolution modules
Fig. 4. F-score over diﬀerent case base scale
While analyzing the ZA resolution, we classiﬁed three main sources of errors
as follows:
(1) Preprocessing error: there are 6% ZA errors attributed to base noun phrase
chunker.
(2) Animacy ambiguity: there are some verbs that can be both animate and
inanimate such as ”	” (make), making the ZA resolution a wrong animate
feature selection.
(3) Inappropriate template: there exists some exception sentence structure given
by the authors, making the ZA identiﬁcation unresolvable. There are 14% errors
attributed to the inapplicability of the stored template method.
5 Conclusions
In this paper, we presented a case-based reasoning approach to Chinese zero
anaphora resolution. Compared to other rule-based resolution methods , the
presented approach turns out to be promising to deal with both intra-sentential
and inter-sentential zero anaphora. In addition, we introduced two new features,
namely animate relation acquired from outer resources and sentence patterns, in
both ZA detection and ANT identiﬁcation. Experimental results show that they
can contribute 9% improvement to overall resolution performance. The drawback
with this approach is the construction of the case base in advance. However, our
experimental analysis shows that feasible performance results can be obtained
when training corpus size is close to the testing one.
A Case-Based Reasoning Approach to Zero Anaphora Resolution 531
14. Aamodt, A., Plaza, E.: Case-Based Reasoning: Foundational Issues, Methodologi-
cal Variations, and System Approaches. AI Communications, IOS Press. 7 (1994)
39–59
15. Chen, K.J., Liu, S.H.: Word identiﬁcation for Mandarin Chinese sentences. In Pro-
ceedings of the 14th Conference on Computational linguistics. (1992) 101–107
16. Wang, H.F., Mei, Z.: Robust Pronominal Resolution within Chinese Text. Journal
of Software. 16 (2005) 700–707
17. CKIP.: A study of Chinese Word Boundaries and Segmentation Standard for In-
formation processing. Technical Report, Taiwan, Taipei, Academia Sinica. (1996)
18. Ding, B.G., Huang, C.N., Huang, D.G.: Chinese Main Verb Identiﬁcation: From
Speciﬁcation to Realization. International journal of Computational Linguistics
and Chinese Lan-guage Processing. 10 (2005) 53–94
19. Liu, Y.H., Pan, W.Y., and Gu, W.: Shiyong Xiandai Hanyu Yufa (Practical Modern
Chinese Grammar). The Commercial Press. (2002)
20. CKIP.: The content and illustration of Sinica corpus of Academia Sinica. Technical
Report no. 95–02, Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica. (1995)
Abstract: A Chinese medicine prescription consists of a list of herbs and a 
collection of Chinese medicine prescriptions can be considered as a 
network with herbs as nodes such that two nodes are connected if they 
appear simultaneously in at least one prescription. We studied the 
statistical properties of such network and we found that the degree 
distribution P(k) is an exponential decay function, i.e., P(k) = Ae−k where k is 
the number of edges emerging from a node and A is a constant. On the 
other hand, in the network using prescriptions as nodes such that two 
nodes are connected if they contain at least one common herb, a peak 
was found following the initial decay in the degree distribution. A random 
network model is constructed to account for the observed degree 
distribution. 
Chinese medicine prescriptions networks
Shen-Hsi Tseng, Tyne Liang
Department of Computer Science, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu 300 Taiwan
Kiwing To
Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Taipei 115, Taiwan
Herb Network Example: 
Prescription (4) : herbs (17)
#1 “小柴胡湯” : 柴胡(a), 大棗(b), 甘草(c), 生薑(d), 半夏(e), 人參(f), 黃芩(g)
#2 “大承氣湯” : 大黃(h), 厚朴(q), 枳實(s), 芒硝(k)
#3 “芍藥湯“ : 芍藥(l), 當歸(x), 黃連(n), 木香(o), 甘草(c), 大黃(h), 官桂(p), 黃芩(g)
#4 “枳實大黃湯” : 羌活(r), 當歸(x), 枳實(s), 大黃(h)
#1
#3
#2
#4
(a)
(b)
(f)
(d)
(e)
(c)
(g)
(p) (o)
(l) (n)
(x)
(h)
(k)
(q)
(s)
(r)
Cumulative Frequency :
1000
100
10
1
50 100 250150 200
∑∞
=ks
sN )(f(k) =
350
100
150
50
300
250
200
0
50 100 250150 200
f(k) ~ e - a k
k
Herb Networks from different databases:
0 50 100 150 200
1
10
100
1000
HPN #1
HPN #2
Cumulative Frequency, f(k)  =   N
k
∫∞ −
k
dke
m
e
m
k
m
27
8
A.D. 150~219
A.D. 1563~1640
HPN#1 : Complete Works of Zhang Jingyue 景岳全書[1], by Zhang Jing-Yue,
1316 prescriptions composed of 313 herbs (nodes) with 8874 edges
HPN#1 : Treatise on Febrile Diseases 傷寒雜病論 [2], by Zhang Zhong-Jing,
232 prescriptions composed of 70 herbs (nodes) with 560 edges
