 2
Study on Characteristics of Light-Addressable 
Multi-electrode Array Chip 
光定址微電極陣列晶片特性研究 
洪培凱 1  張淵仁 1*  鄭珮綾 2  王欣怡 3  陳右穎 4 
1中臺科技大學 醫學工程暨材料研究所 
1*中臺科技大學 資訊管理系/醫學工程暨材料研究所 
2國立清華大學 生醫工程與環境科學系 
3國立交通大學 生化工程研究所 
4國立交通大學 電機與控制工程學系 
 
I. Abstract 
 
In this work, we built up a multi-channel 
recording system for recording electrophysiological 
signals of neural cells. A conducting layer, indium 
tin oxide (ITO), within each single channel is 
manufactured to replace the typical metal lead. The 
illuminated photoconductor, hydrogenated 
amorphous silicon (a-Si:H), substitutes the typical 
metal electrode. Compared with previous work, this 
design has many advantages in measurement of 
neuronal signal.  
Besides, a multi-channel recording system is 
fulfilled. In our work, a classifying and analyzing 
tool is developed to evaluate the mechanism of 
nervous system. In this experiments, a cell line, 
NT-2, is used for measurement of  
electrophysiological signals. 
 
Keywords: Light-addressable, Multi-electrode array 
chip, photoconductor, electrophysiological signals. 
 
中文摘要 
 
本實驗中,我們建立一個具有良好訊雜比及低
電磁干擾的多電極記錄系統。我們使用 ITO 取代
傳統的金屬導線，並以光電導作為電極開關來取
代傳統的金屬電極。與先前的研究比較，這樣的
設計，在神經訊號的量測上有許多的優點。 
除此之外，在本實驗中同時建立了一個即時
的訊號記錄系統，並設計了一個可分類及分析電
生理訊號的程式來研究神經系統的活動機制。本
實驗使用 NT-2 細胞株來進行電生理訊號的量測。 
 
關鍵詞：光定址、多電極陣列晶片、光電導、電
生理訊號 
 
II. Motivation and objective 
 
The brain is a collection of about 10 billion 
interconnected neurons. Each neuron is a cell that 
uses biochemical reactions to receive process and 
transmit information. Nerve cells operate by 
generating electrical signals that move from one part 
of the cell to another of the same cell or to 
neighboring cells. The neural signals transmit in the 
nervous system. To observe the signals of 
mammalian neuroscience community, the 
electrophysiological recording techniques was 
applied. Moreover, the single-unit-recording method 
was usually used for recording signals of one neuron 
[1,2].  
However, consciousness, sensation, perception 
or recognition are complex and can not be explained 
from one neuronal signal. Simultaneous 
measurement and recording signals from large 
populations of neurons are necessary. Therefore, a 
multi-electrode array (MEA) chip was developed to 
achieve this goal [3,4,5].  
MEA chip has already become a useful tool to 
measure the electrophysiological signals in various 
biotechnology applications [6]. We notice that there 
are still some problems in the conventional MEA 
chips. The novel light-addressable MEA chip 
developed in this study helps to overcome the 
disadvantages of conventional MEA chip [7]. And 
cavity surface emitting laser, VCSEL, is adopted to 
avoid the disadvantage of alignment problem. 
The main objectives in this work are: 
1. A novel light-addressable multi-electrode array 
chip is designed and is fabricated. 
2. The characteristics of MEA chip are 
investigated. 
3. A pre-amplifier and multi-channel recording 
system will be built up. 
4. The recording system and analyzing software 
to process the neural signals are developed. 
 
III. Experimental setup 
 
The light-addressable multi-electrode array 
(LAMEA) system is illustrated in Fig. 1. The 
VCSEL driver is controlled by a personal computer 
with a user friendly interface through the serial port. 
Each channel correspond to a laser diode can be 
controlled separately by the driver. These laser 
switches operate in coordination with the access of 
every channel embedded in the experimental dish. A 
pre-amplifier circuit is used to amplify the tiny 
signals before the signals transmit from ITO lead to 
rear DAQ system. 
 4
 
 
Low and stable impedance of electrode relies 
on the constant resistance of photoconductor. To 
stabilize the resistance, the bias of the VCSEL 
becomes an important issue. In Fig.3, it’s shown that 
the maximum power efficiency takes place when the 
bias current of VCSEL is about 7 mA. In addition, 
the V-I curve in this figure is shown that adjustment 
of current is much easier and more precise than 
adjustment of voltage. Thus, a designed circuit on 
control driver of VCSEL array chip is conducted to 
provide function of output current adjustment. 
The laser wavelength is anther important issue 
in our work. Three VCSEL light sources with 
different wavelengths are available and adopted in 
our experiments. These three wavelength values are 
670 nm, 780 nm and 850 nm. After a series of tests, 
the VCSEL with 670 nm wavelength is chosen in 
this study. 
The Ohm’s law is shown in Eq. (1). 
iRv ×=       (1) 
And 
v
l
Snqi nμ=      (2) 
Where n is the free electron intensity and μn is 
mobility. Equation (2) reveals that current is linearly 
proportional to the applied voltage. Combination of 
Eq. (1) and Eq. (2) obtains following equation. 
S
lR ρ=        (3) 
where 
nnqμρ
1=     (4) 
The resistivity (ρ) represents the intrinsic ability of 
the given material to resist current flow. From Eq. 
(3), it shows that the resistance of photoconductor is 
linearly proportional to the thickness (l) of a-Si:H 
membrane. 
 
 
 
In this study, we choose four different thickness 
of a-Si:H layer to estimate and optimize the proper 
impedance of each electrode. These four different 
thicknesses of a-Si:H membrane are 1000 nm, 1500 
nm, 2000 nm and 2500 nm. We focus on the 
resistance of a-Si:H rather than the ITO. It’s because 
the impedance of ITO is about couples of kilo-ohms, 
and that of the illuminated a-Si:H is larger than 
numerous mega-ohms. In addition, the impedance of 
darkened a-Si:H is larger than thousands of 
mega-ohms. 
The result of resistance corresponding to 
thickness of a-Si:H is shown in the Fig. 4. One of the 
important results is that the impedance of a-Si:H is 
not linearly proportional to the thickness of this layer. 
The minimum resistance is at the thickness of about 
2100 nm. 
After verification of the hardware, comparison 
was conducted between our LAMEA and MEA 
chips of previous researches. The results are listed in 
Table-1. The Heuschkel’s MEA took the 
hippocampal slices in their experiment [8]. The 
Harimoto’s MEA used the retina of carp [9]. The 
cardiac myocytes was adopted in the Bucher’s MEA 
[10,11]. Six considerations are included in 
comparison.  As shown in the following table, our 
LAMEA system has several advantages, including 
simultaneously multi-channels recording, lower 
magnetic interference and thermal noise, smaller 
size and higher electrode density. Obviously, our 
LAMEA is absolutely superior to other designs. 
Fig.3 The LIV curve of two VCSEL diodes with 
670nm wavelength. Higher power efficiency 
implies higher luminous intensity. 
Fig.4 Resistance curve of photoconductor, 
a-Si:H with different thickness. A biased laser 
diode, VCSEL, with 670 nm wavelength steadily 
radiates and influences the resistance value. 
