中文摘要: 
在本計劃中，奈米碳管係以網印法塗佈於銦錫氧化物基板上。網印上的多層奈米碳管
之電子放射特性是以二極體之結構加以量測，所使用間隔器之厚度為 130 µm。網印後之
奈米碳管之最佳熱處理條件為 300℃、3小時。此時之起始電場約為 4.6 V/µm，而放射電流
密度於 6.1 V/μm電場作用下可達 100 µA/cm2。再者，經過 UV照射後可以改善奈米碳管
之放射電流，增加電流密度和降低起始電場。由實驗得知，奈米碳管經 UV照射 20分鐘後
的起始電場降為 4.1 V/μm。當陽極是螢光面時，奈米碳管之場發射電流密值當電場強度為
7.7 V/μm 時可達 2680 μA/cm2。同時，我們也發現 UV照射處理得以改善奈米碳管之放
射電流穩定性。此外，利用二極式結構可以完成奈米碳管場放射平面光源之製作並可量得
螢光層被電子激發後之發光行為。在此研究中，我們完成了白色、綠色、及黃色奈米碳管
場放射平面光源之製作，至於奈米碳管場放射電流之均勻性，我們仍會繼續加以改善。 
關鍵詞: 奈米碳管，網印，場放射電流，螢光層 
 
Abstract  
In this proposal, carbon nanotubes were screen-printed on an indium tin oxide (ITO) 
substrate. The emission characteristics of screen-printed multi-wall carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) 
were measured using a diode structure with a spacer of 130 μm. The optimum thermo treatment 
parameter was 3 hours at 300℃. The turn-on field was about 4.6 V/μm and the emission current 
density approached to 100 µA/cm2 at 6.1 V/μm. The optimal current density of MWCNTs was 
obtained by further surface treatment. It was found that the UV irradiation improved the emission 
characteristic of CNTs via increase in emission current and emission field sites. Consequently the 
turn-on electric field was reduced. The turn-on electric field of MWCNTs was 4.1 V/µm when 
CNTs treated by UV irradiation for 20 min. The emission current density was 2680 µA/cm2 at 7.7 
V/µm when a phosphor screen was used as anode. In the meantime, the long-term emission 
stability was obviously improved for the sample after UV irradiation treatment. Bright 
luminescence image was observed with diode mode flat-panel CNTs field-emission luminant. In 
this study, the white, green, and yellow flat-panel CNTs field-emission luminant were prepared, 
however, the uniformity of emission current of CNTs is under improved.  
Keywords: Carbon nanotubes, Screen-prining, Field emission current, Phosphor layer   
 
1. Introduction  
Recently, carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have attracted considerable attention of their superior 
electrical properties [1] including high aspect ratio, small tip radii of curvature, high conductivity, 
and high chemical stability [2,3]. Because of their excellent electron emission properties, CNTs 
can be applied for cold electron emission sources of field emission displays (FEDs) which have 
excellent characteristics such as wide viewing angle, fast response time, low cost, low power 
consumption and wide temperature range of operation. The carbon nanotubes field emitter can be 
fabricated by using the well-aligned CNTs using chemical vapor deposition (CVD) [4,5], or 
inexpensive method by screen-printing [6]. Although CNTs emitters grown by CVD have a large 
S
B 2
3
95.0' φβ = .                           （2） 
Where β’ is the local field conversion factor at the emitter surface, B = 6.87×107, Φ is the work 
function of MWCNT (~ 5 eV), and S is the slope of the F-N plot. The electric field can be 
estimated from the equation: 
d
VEloc
β= .                             （3） 
Where d is the distance between the anode and the cathode. From equations (2) and (3) we obtain 
the representation of field enhancement factor β as: 
S
dB 2
3
95.0 φβ =                              （4） 
From measurements, it revealed that the field enhancement factor of CNTs was about 2567 
and 1050 for 3 and 7 hours treatment, respectively, and 3 hours was the best thermo treatment 
time for MWCNT. The long treatment time caused the oxidization of MWCNTs film [9,14] and 
burned out binder. Figure 1 shows the J-E curves of different CNTs contents treated for 3h at 300
℃. The turn-on electric fields were 4.6, 5.2, 5.3 V/µm for 3, 6.5 and 9 wt% of CNTs contents, 
respectively, and it was higher than 8 V/µm for 1.5 wt% CNTs condition. For high concentration 
of CNTs samples, 6.5 and 9 wt%, the turn-on electric field was higher than that of low 
concentration samples, which was due to the interaction of electric field among the carbon 
nanotubes [15]. Among the four samples, the 3 wt% CNTs film had the best field emission 
property, including the turn-on electric filed and emission current density. And the emission 
current density approached 100 μA/cm2 at an applied electric field of 6.1 V/µm. It was 
obviously observed that the density of CNTs was an important factor for field emission device. 
 
 
Figure 1.  J-E curves of different CNTs contents treated for 3h at 300℃. 
 
 
 
      
Figure 3.  SEM images of 3 wt% CNTs films treated at 300℃ for 3 h. (a) as-prepared and (b) 
with UV irradiation. 
 
 
 
Figure 4.  J-E curves of 3 wt% CNTs emitters treated at 300℃ for 3 h along with UV irradiation 
treatment for different time. 
 
µA/cm2 at 6.4 V/µm for the sample with UV irradiation treatment. The sample of CNTs surface 
with UV irradiation for 10 min was almost the same as that without any surface treatment CNTs 
samples, and the sample treated by UV irradiation for 30 min revealed a little treatment 
excessively. The field emission properties of CNTs were analyzed using F-N model and showed 
(a) (b) 
 
 
     
 
Figure 6.  Performance of CNTs FED with a green phosphor screen operated at 6.9 V/µm for (a) 
without and (b) with the UV irradiation treatment. 
 
      
 
Figure 7.  Performance of (a) white and (b) yellow CNTs FED for CNTs without any surface 
treatment. 
In summary, the CNTs films for the emitters of flat-panel field emission display were 
fabricated by screen-printing method. The optimum field emission condition was obtained when 
3 wt% CNTs film was thermo treated with low temperature at 200  for 3h, and high temperature ℃
at 300  for 3h.℃  The turn-on electric field was 4.6 V/µm for 3 wt% CNTs content. The emission 
current density for the CNTs emitters without surface treatment approached 100 μA/cm2 at an 
applied electric field of 6.1 V/µm. 
The effect of UV irradiation on field emission characteristics of screen-printed CNTs emitters 
has been investigated. After the CNTs samples treated by UV irradiation, the emission current 
density was increased and the turn-on electric field was reduced. The reasons for the emission 
enhancement of the CNTs sample by UV irradiation treatment were resulted from the dandling 
bond effect or the surface of CNTs being cleaned. The turn-on electric field was 4.1 V/µm for the 
CNTs emitters after UV irradiation by 20 min, and the emission current density was 2680 µA/cm2 
at 7.7 V/µm, which was measured with a phosphor screen. Bright luminescence image was 
observed from the diode mode field emission structure. The sample after UV irradiation treatment, 
the long-term emission stability of CNTs emitters was improved. 
(a) (b) 
(a) (b) 
