水熱法合成釕系水合氧化物的電容與材料特質之研究
Capacitive and Textural Characterization of Hydrous ruthenium-Based
Oxides Synthesized by Means of a Hydrothermal Method
計畫編號：NSC94-2214-E-194-003, NSC 95-2221-E-194-067, NSC 96-2214-E-194-001
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：胡 啟 章 教授 清華大學化工系
三年計畫參與人員：張國興、吳永泰、許棟宇、劉明玨、郭幸宜、黃昭
銘、楊憶琳、李建良、林繼正
1.中文摘要
關鍵字：奈米結構、釕系水合氧化物、電化學超高
電容器、電雙層電容、準電容、電化學可逆
性、脈衝功率。
本研究開發具有高脈衝功率密度與適度能量密
度之電化學超高電容器中的釕系水合金屬氧化物電
極材料。此三年計畫完成釕系氧化物之奈米結構、
結晶度與水合程度之獨立控制，具備理想的電容特
性，包括：優異的電化學可逆性、高脈衝功率、高
比電容與良好的穩定性。本研究發現非晶型含水二
氧化釕在水中進行熱處理，因為大量水分子扮演阻
止非晶型含水二氧化釕奈米粒子燒結的角色而使得
熱處理後的二氧化釕保有含水與結晶的奈米結構。
因此由研究結果提出一個非常重用的概念:在水中熱
處理(hydrothermal annealing)可以增加具奈米結構之
含水二氧化釕的結晶性但仍保持其含水量與奈米顆
粒之外觀，而這在釕系超級電容器之電極材料應用
方面是個很重要的貢獻。
Abstract
Keyword: nanostructure, hydrous Ru-based oxides,
electrochemical supercapacitor, double-layer
capacitance, pseudocapacitance, electrochemical
reversibility, pulse-power
Hydrous Ru-based oxides for the applications of
electrochemical supercapacitors have been developed
and characterized in this study because of the unique
properties of high pulse-power density and acceptable
specific capacitance. In this three-year project, the
nanostructures, crystalline degree, and hydrous degree
of hydrous Ru-based oxides are independently
controlled by using a hydrothermal synthesis method.
These materials exhibit ideally capacitive performances
(i.e., highly electrochemical reversibility, high-power
property, high specific capacitance, and excellent
stability). In this work, amorphous RuO2
.nH2O nano-
particles, sintering to big crystals with low water
content in a normal annealing process, keep their
nanostructure and high water content by annealing in
water because water molecules in the hydrothermal
bath serve as a barrier for particulate aggregation.
Therefore, a very important and novel idea for RuO2-
based supercapacitors was proposed that hydrothermal
annealing not only increases the crystalline degree but
also maintains the water content and nanostructure of
RuO2
.nH2O.
2. 計畫簡介與動機
由過去經驗得知[1-11]，如果能夠將電化學活性
物質的結構進行三維空間的奈米化，不但可以藉由
表面積的增加而同時增加電雙層電容與電化學活性
位置，而且奈米孔徑(> 2nm)皆屬中孔特性，因此在
增加電化學活性物質的披覆量的時候，將有機會改
變離子在孔洞中的移動能力較差的困境，因此電容
器之等效串聯電阻將不致增加。所以具有奈米結構
之電化學活性物質將有極大的機會大幅提昇超高電
容器的表現，因此新一世代的超高電容器將可問世。
根據上述，為了同時達到提高 RuO2之電子導電
性、電解質之離子導電性與電化學活性物質之電荷
轉移速率，發現要改善 RuO2的使用效率必須同時克
服含水量與結晶程度兩大問題。於是本研究以水熱
方式製備 RuO2與釕系水合金屬氧化物，使其具有下
列之優點：
1. 所得氧化物為大小均一之奈米粒子，且其平均粒
4. 結果摘錄
4.1. 第一年度成果摘錄
The composition of all pristine (Ru-Sn)O2⋅nH2O
samples was determined by EDS analysis, which is
shown in Table 1. Note that the Ru/Sn ratio in all
binary oxides is very close to the metallic ion ratio in
the corresponding precursor solutions, suggesting that
most Ru and Sn oxides were completely precipitated
during the hydrothermal process. In addition, the
composition of Ru0.8Sn0.2O2⋅nH2O, Ru0.5Sn0.5O2⋅nH2O,
and Ru0.2Sn0.8O2⋅nH2O was further confirmed by X-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy, supporting the above
statement. Accordingly, the composition of (Ru-Sn)O2⋅
nH2O can be precisely controlled through means of the
mild hydrothermal conditions.
Table 1 Compositions of (Ru-Sn)O2⋅nH2O obtained
from the EDS analysis.
The morphology and particle size distribution of
pristine (Ru-Sn)O2⋅nH2O with variable compositions
was examined by means of a high resolution
transmission electron microscope (HRTEM, not shown
here). Note the very obvious network structure of RuO2
⋅nH2O nanoparticles with the particle size ranging from
1.7 to 2.5 nm. Similar nano-network structures are also
found for various (Ru-Sn)O2⋅nH2O. The mean particle
size of consisting particles, however, is decreased to ca.
1.5 nm when SnCl4⋅xH2O is introduced into the
precursor solutions. In addition, the mean particle size
of (Ru-Sn)O2⋅nH2O in different compositions is very
similar although the molar fraction of SnCl4⋅xH2O in
the precursor solution is different from each other. This
result indicates that the particle size of (Ru-Sn)O2⋅
nH2O should be not significantly influenced by
changing the SnCl4⋅xH2O content in the precursor
solutions.
The electron diffraction patterns of RuO2⋅nH2O
and (Ru-Sn)O2 ⋅nH2O particles prepared by the
hydrothermal method indicate that there are no any
obvious diffraction rings, suggesting that all pristine
oxides are of an amorphous structure. Similar results
are also found in our previous work [5] that pristine
RuO2⋅nH2O fabricated by a modified sol-gel process
showed an amorphous structure. Based on the above
result and the fact that amorphous RuO2⋅nH2O
annealed at the temperature close to its crystalline
temperature showed very high specific capacitance
[2,5], these pristine (Ru-Sn)O2⋅nH2O prepared by the
hydrothermal method with annealing in air at certain
temperatures are expected to have application potential
in electrochemical supercapacitors (see below).
Fig. 1 Typical particle size distribution diagrams for
(a) RuO2⋅nH2O and (b) Ru0.8Sn0.2O2⋅nH2O
synthesized by means of the hydrothermal
method.
Figures 1a and b shows the particles size
distribution diagrams of pristine RuO2⋅nH2O and
Ru0.8Sn0.2O2⋅nH2O, estimated from 100 particles in the
TEM photographs. The particle size of RuO2⋅nH2O is
normally distributed from 1.5 to 2.7 nm (see Fig. 1a). In
Fig. 1b, the size distribution of Ru0.8Sn0.2O2⋅nH2O
particles generally ranges from 1.0 to 2.0 nm and most
particles are located within 1.0 and 1.5 nm, smaller than
The total specific capacitance of RuO2⋅nH2O is
equal to 477 F/g and gradually increases with the
continuous addition of tin oxide, and reaches a
maximum, about 566 F/g, when 30 at% tin oxide is
added into RuO2⋅nH2O. Then, CS,T decreases gradually
with a further increase in the tin content and reaches 55
F/g when the SnO2 content equals 80at%. This result
reveals an increase in electroactive sites, attributable to
the intimate mixing of Ru and Sn atoms within the
binary oxides [8], when the Sn content is ≤40 at%.
This statement is supported by the obvious increase in
CS,Ru from ca. 480 to 830 F/g on curve 2 when the SnO2
content is ≤40 at%.
4.2. 第二年度成果摘錄
The particle size and distribution generally
influence the utilization of RuO2⋅xH2O, which is an
essential concern in using noble metal oxides. The
morphology and particle size of RuO2⋅xH2O with
different hydrothermal times were identified by means
of a transmission electron microscope (TEM, see Fig.
1(a-d)). Particulate morphologies in the nanometer
scale are clearly observed from the TEM images,
indicating that RuO2⋅xH2O nanoparticles are easily
obtained under mild hydrothermal conditions (i.e.,
hydrothermal temperatures between 100 and 200oC).
The diameter is between 1.0 and 3.5 nm with a very
narrow size distribution, indicating the highly uniform
size of RuO2⋅xH2O particulates. Moreover, the particle
size distribution of RuO2⋅xH2O seems to be not
significantly influenced by prolonging the
hydrothermal time while the growth of crystals is found
for the samples with a longer hydrothermal time (see
below ED and XRD results). The former result implies
that most ruthenium precursors were precipitated to
form RuO2⋅xH2O particulates during the initial period
of hydrothermal synthesis while the typical steps in
hydrothermal synthesis, such as crystal dissolution,
nucleation, re-crystallization and growth, should not
occur in the post-hydrothermal process. Accordingly,
prolonging the hydrothermal time is proposed as
“hydrothermalannealing” which promotes the crystal 
size but remains the hydrous nature of RuO2⋅xH2O
nanoparticles.
Figure 1. TEM images of RuO2⋅xH2O nanoparticles
with hydrothermal time equal to (a) 1.5, (b) 3, (c)
6, and (d) 24 hrs.
Figure 2. Electron diffraction patterns of RuO2⋅xH2O
nanoparticles with hydrothermal time equal to (a)
1.5, (b) 3, (c) 6, and (d) 24 hrs.
The electronic conductivity of RuO2⋅xH2O is
determined by its crystalline structure, which is very
important for electron hopping within the oxide
particulates during the charge/discharge tests. Note the
formation of amorphous RuO2⋅xH2O in Fig. 2(a) when
the hydrothermal time is relatively short (e.g., < 1.5
hrs). The number and locus of diffraction rings in the
electron diffraction (ED) patterns are increased and
groups, resulting in the formation of local RuO6
crystalline structure in every particulate but retards the
water loss. Accordingly, RuO2 nanocrystallites will be
formed and gradually grow with prolonging the
hydrothermal time (see step 2). This method is
proposed as “hydrothermal annealing” for the 
independent control of crystal size and water content of
RuO2 which exhibits excellent capacitive performances
in the supercapacitor application.
Figure 4. A scheme for the independent control of
crystal size and water content (hydrothermal
annealing) for hydrothermal-derived RuO2⋅xH2O:
(a) free hydroxyl-ruthenium species, (b) rapid
precipitation of hydroxyl-ruthenium species to
form RuO2⋅xH2O primary nanoparticles in a
narrow particle size distribution, and (c)
condensation of hydroxyl groups to form local
RuO6 crystalline structure and gradual growth of
RuO2 nanocrystallites in every primary particulate
with prolonging the hydrothermal time.
Figure 5 shows the dependence of voltammetric
charge (q*) on the scan rate of CV (v) to identify the
annealing effect on the proton diffusion resistance of
hydrothermal-derived RuO2 ⋅xH2O with different
annealing temperatures because the voltammetric
charge is widely recognized as an index measuring the
electrochemically active sites coupled with the proton
exchange between the oxide and the aqueous electrolyte.
According to the studies by Trasatti et al [7,8], the outer
electrochemical surface, estimated from the outer
charge (qo*), corresponds to the film regions touching
the electrolyte directly; the inner electrochemical
surface, estimated from inner charge (qi*), indicates the
regions of pores, grain boundaries, crevices, and cracks,
etc. qo* can be obtained from the extrapolation of q* to
v = ∞ from the plot of q* vs. v−1/2 (see Fig. 5(a))
meanwhile the total charge (qT*) can be estimated from
the extrapolation of q* to v = 0 from the plot of 1/q* vs.
v1/2 (see Fig. 5(b)). In addition, qi* is given from the
difference between qT* and qo*. These charge data
deduced from Fig. 5 for hydrothermal-derived RuO2⋅
xH2O with different annealing temperatures are shown
in Table 1. Several features have to be mentioned from
an examination of the data in Table 1 and all curves in
Fig 5. First, the high ratio of outer change resulting in
the almost independent relation between q* and v in Fig.
5(b) indicates a very minor proton diffusion effect,
reasonably ascribed to that hydrothermal-derived RuO2
⋅xH2O annealed at 200 oC still maintains the original
mesoporosity and designed nanostructure from the
XRD and TEM analyses. Second, an increase of slope
in Fig. 5(b) indicating the decrease in the outer charge
suggests an increase in the proton diffusion resistance
with the raise of annealing temperatures, attributed to
gradual sintering/coalescence of crystallites, growth of
crystallites, and loss of water content during the
annealing process. Third, all hydrothermal-derived
RuO2⋅xH2O electrodes show very high ratios of outer
charge, especially for the RuO2⋅xH2O annealed at 200
oC, ca. 92%, since qo* of RuO2-coated electrodes
prepared by thermal decomposition is only ca. 50% of
the total charge. This phenomenon reveals that
nanomaterials with high mesoporosity favor the
penetration of electrolytes into the whole electrode
matrix, which will markedly reduce the distance of
proton diffusion and enhance the proportion of
proton-accessible active sites.
Based on the above results and discussion, the
crystalline nature of hydrothermal-derived RuO2⋅xH2O
effectively inhibits the crystallite coalescence upon
annealing and maintains the original nanostructure.
This novel and unique property and the highly
mesoporous nature favors the penetration of
electrolytes into the whole matrix consisting of
annealed RuO2⋅xH2O crystallites, which not only
reduces the proton diffusion resistance but also
improves the electron pathways, promoting the
utilization of RuO2 ⋅xH2O in the supercapacitor
application.
content is defined as the weight loss between room
temperature and 500 oC. In Figure 2, the water content
of RuO2xH2O rapidly reduces from ca. 25 to ca. 5 wt%
when oxide has been annealed in air at or above 150 oC
for 24hrs. This effect is reasonably attributed to the
absence of physically adsorbed water and condensation
of bulk hydroxyl groups in a normal annealing process.
In Figure 2, however, the water content of RuO2xH2O
with hydrothermal annealing at all temperatures is very
high; the lowest one with about 16 wt% is the oxide
annealed at 225 oC. The above results indicate that
hydrothermal annealing restricts crystallization of RuO2
within the primary RuO2xH2O nanoparticles without
significant condensation of superficial hydroxyl groups
between particulates because water molecules in the
hydrothermal bath serve as a barrier for particulate
aggregation.
Fig. 2 TGA curves of (1) pristine and (2-5) annealed
RuO2⋅xH2O in (a) air and (b) water at (2) 150, (3)
175, (4) 200, and (5) 225 oC for 24 hrs.
Effects of annealing in air and water on the
morphologies of sol-gel derived RuO2xH2O were
directly observed by means of TEM images (see Figure
3). A random and multilateral structure composed of
many primary nanoparticles with an average particle
size of ca. 3 nm is clearly found from the TEM images
of pristine RuO2xH2O in Figure 3a and 3b. On the
other hand, the TEM images of RuO2xH2O annealed in
air at 150 and 200 oC (see Figure 3c and 3d) reveals
coalescence of primary nanoparticles and growth of
RuO2 crystals. The above sintering phenomenon found
in the air-annealing case is minor/invisible in the
hydrothermal annealing process from the TEM images
shown in Figure 3e and 3f. The average particle size of
RuO2xH2O hydrothermally annealed at 225 oC for 24
hrs is about 7 nm and the oxide aggregates show a
mesoporous structure.
Fig. 3 TEM images of (a,b) pristine RuO2xH2O, and
(c-f) annealed RuO2xH2O in (c,d) air and (e,f)
water at (c,e) 150, (d) 200, and (f) 225 oC for 24
hrs.
From the above XRD patterns, TGA results, and
TEM images, the great loss in water content for
RuO2xH2O upon air-annealing at various temperatures
can be effectively inhibited by annealing in a water
shown in Figure 5. It is well known that annealing in air
accelerates the condensation of hydroxyl groups to
form the crystalline, bridging oxo bonds [5,6,11-13]. As
a result, great loss of water and active sites for
RuO2xH2O is found and this anhydrous, crystalline
RuO2 generally shows low specific capacitance
[5,6,11-13]. From the XRD, TG/DTA and TEM
analyses, particle coalescence/sintering and crystal
growth of RuO2xH2O unavoidably occur during
annealing in air at/above 150 oC. Hence, the specific
capacitance of RuO2xH2O decreases obviously with
increasing the annealing temperature (see curve 1 in
Figure 5). On the other hand, the particle sintering
phenomenon of RuO2xH2O is effectively inhibited by
means of hydrothermal annealing. The specific
capacitance of RuO2xH2O with hydrothermal
annealing at 225 oC, thus, reaches about 390 F g1 (see
curve 2 in Figure 5) which is much higher than that of
RuO2xH2O annealed in air at the same temperature (ca.
170 F g1).
Fig. 6 Ratio of the specific capacitance on the scan rate
of CV for (1) pristine RuO2xH2O with annealing in
(2,3) air and (4,5) water at (2,4) 175 and (3,5) 225
oC for 24 hrs.
The most attractive merit of anhydrous
crystalline RuO2 is the weak dependence of specific
capacitance on the scan rate of CV because most active
species are formed at the superficial region of RuO2
crystals [3,6,17]. Thus, redox transitions occurring at
the superficial region of RuO2 particles show a minor
effect of proton diffusion. On the other hand, the
specific capacitance of amorphous RuO2xH2O
generally shows strong dependence on the scan rate of
CV because this oxide can utilize active species within
the particle. Thus, most oxy-hydroxyl-Ru species
involve in the energy storage/delivery while proton
diffusion becomes the bottle-neck step for bulk redox
transitions [6,17]. Clearly, curve 1 in Figure 6 reflects
this phenomenon which can be reduced by annealing
(see curves 2 and 3 for RuO2xH2O annealed in air).
Unfortunately, simultaneous reduction in the specific
capacitance is an unavoidable problem in this normal
annealing process. From a comparison of curves 2-5,
the dependence of specific capacitance on the scan rate
of CV for RuO2xH2O with hydrothermal annealing is
very similar to that with annealing in air. Under the
same annealing temperature and scan rate, the specific
capacitance of RuO2xH2O annealed in water is always
much higher than that of the anhydrous oxide.
Therefore, we can conclude that the crystalline, hydrous
structure of RuO2xH2O annealed in water favors the
utilization of active species in addition to a merit that
the specific capacitance is weakly dependent on the
scan rate of CV.
5. 總結
Binary ruthenium-tin oxides with excellent
capacitive performances were successfully fabricated
by means of a hydrothermal synthesis method. From
the EDS analysis, the molar ratio within (Ru-Sn)O2⋅
nH2O is approximately equal to the molar fraction of
metallic ions in the precursor solutions. The mean
particle size of pristine (Ru-Sn)O2⋅nH2O, ranging from
1.3 to 2.0 nm, is not significantly affected by varying
the Sn content. The voltammetric results show that CS,Ru
reaches a maximum of ca. 830 F/g for pristine
Ru0.6Sn0.4O2 ⋅nH2O (measured at 25 mV/s). The
introduction of tin oxide is demonstrated to
successfully promote the utilization of oxyruthenium
species, revealing the fact that (Ru-Sn)O2⋅nH2O
synthesized under mild hydrothermal conditions is a
promising electrode material for supercapacitors.
Based on the analyses from TEM images, ED
patterns, XRD patterns, Raman spectra, and CV
behavior, independent control of the crystal size and
water content of RuO2 ⋅xH2O nanoparticles was
計畫成果自評部份：
本三年計畫完成釕系氧化物之奈米結構、結晶度與水合程度之獨立控制，具
備理想的電容特性，包括：優異的電化學可逆性、高脈衝功率、高比電容與良好
的穩定性。本研究發現非晶型含水二氧化釕在水中進行熱處理，因為大量水分子
扮演阻止非晶型含水二氧化釕奈米粒子燒結的角色而使得熱處理後的二氧化釕保
有含水與結晶的奈米結構。因此由研究結果提出一個非常重用的概念：在水中熱
處理(hydrothermal annealing)可以增加具奈米結構之含水二氧化釕的結晶性但仍保
持其含水量與奈米顆粒之外觀，而這在釕系超級電容器之電極材料應用方面是個
很重要的貢獻。本研究內容與原計畫完全相符，並充分達成預期目標情況，研究
成果之學術與應用價值均高，目前已經在學術期刊發表數篇論文。
水熱處理所得氧化物不但可以增加反應之表面積，同時增加電雙層電容與電
化學的活性位置，大幅提昇電極之比能量密度。氧化物奈米粒子含水結晶之結構
特性，在增加電化學活性物質批覆量時，同時可以提高整體總能量密度且不會增
加其等效串聯電阻的好處。所得氧化物奈米粒子不需加任何分散劑可分散於水中
數月而不沉澱。可以利用簡單的方法將RuO2奈米粒子塗佈在商業用之鈦金屬片上。
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-007-173-
計畫名稱 水熱法合成釕系水合氧化物的電容與材料特質之研究(3/3)
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
胡啟章
國立清華大學化工系 教授
會議時間地點 中國 上海
會議名稱
The IUPAC 3rd International Symposium on Novel Materials and Synthesis
(NMS-III) & 17th International Symposium on Fine Chemistry and Functional
Polymers (FCFP-XVII)
發表論文題目 PREPARATION AND CHARACTERIZATION OF NANO- STRUCTURED OXIDES
FOR SUPERCAPACITORS
一、參加會議經過
中國大陸各大學每年都非常積極爭取舉辦世界各式各樣大型年會或國際研討會，目的在增
加其學術影響力與提昇個人學術地位。復旦大學一直是中國大陸表現優異的知名大學，而
IUPAC所舉辦的化學相關國際研討會一直是世界各地化學家與研究人員所熱衷參與的研討
會；所以來自世界各地的學者與研究人員都傾力展現其最新的研究成果於會議當中，投稿發
表之文章超過300篇，參與人員亦達300人以上，所以此中型國際會議可算相當成功。
會議也特別邀請一位諾貝爾獎得主Prof. J.M. Lehn進行專題演講，主要有13個 plenary
lectures, 1個keynote lecture與1個public lecture與多位的invited lecture 分別在7項主題中並行發
表，此外以口頭發表並搭配壁報論文方式進行4日的完整討論；論文主題內容皆與材料、能源
與生醫高分子相關技術有關，因各主題皆平行發表，因此報告人僅能針對個人興趣之領域參
與聆聽，所以心得部分僅對這些領域有關之議題提出說明。由於絕大多數的參與者皆卯足全
力地熱情參加討論，因此有許多機會可以彼此交換心得，同時又有許多研究單位發表最新的
發展資訊，經回國後詳細整理，目前已有許多新構想，正在陸續推動之中；因此就整體而言
報告人是獲益良多。
二、與會心得
由於報告人之主力研究對象為電化學能源轉換儲存與電極材料開發，所以主要參加能源
材料方面之研討會。報告人自10月17日註冊直到10月20日，總共參加4日之議程。說明如下：
1. 論文發表：報告人所發表之論文為PREPARATION AND CHARACTERIZATION OF NANO-
STRUCTURED OXIDES FOR SUPERCAPACITORS
Conference Room D: Nano-Materials for Electrochemical Power Sources
Presentation Type: Invited talk
Session Code: IL-95
Date: 19 October 2007
Time: 10:55 - 11:15
PREPARATION AND CHARACTERIZATION OF NANO-
STRUCTURED OXIDES FOR SUPERCAPACITORS
CHI-CHANG HU
Laboratory of Electrochemistry and Advanced Materials, Department of Chemical Engineering,
National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan
e-mail: cchu@che.nthu.edu.tw
Keywords: transition metal oxide, nanostructure, supercapacitors
The rapid and complete precipitation of RuO2xH2O in the initial hydrothermal period (< 45
min) results in the uniform size and narrow particle distribution (1 3 nm). Prolonging the
hydrothermal time favors the condensation of hydroxyl groups coupled with the formation of a
local RuO6 rutile crystalline structure in every particulate but retards the water loss. This method is
proposed as“hydrothermal annealing”for the independent control of crystal size and water content
of RuO2. The crystalline and hydrous nature of hydrothermal-derived RuO2xH2O not only reduces
the proton diffusion resistance but also enhances the electronic conductivity for the supercapacitor
application [1].
The hydrous nature of RuO2 nanocrystallites at the superficial region results in the ease of
proton exchange and electron conduction, promoting the redox rate and utilization of RuO2.
However, protons in the micropores will be exhausted under the ultrahigh power operation,
retarding the redox kinetics. The pore and crystalline solid components in the 3D mesoporous, well
crystalline RuO2 were carefully controlled using the evaporation-induced self-assembled method to
promote the penetration of electrolytes, to provide the “proton reservoirs”and the “electron
superhighways”, and to maintain acceptable energy density (4.6 Wh kg1) under the ultrahigh power
applications (2.6 MW kg1) [2].
Electrochemical deposition of oxides, having been considered as a simple, one-step, and
cost-effective method, is much more advantageous than the other methods. The nanostructure,
surface morphology, and uniformity of oxides can be easily controlled by adjusting the deposition
parameters such as the deposition mode, applied potential, current density, bath temperature,
concentration of precursors, and addition of complex/additive agents [3-6]. Accordingly,
electrochemical deposition of metal oxide films for supercapacitor applications becomes an
interesting and important research topic, which will be briefly discussed in this talk.
Introduction. According to our recent review on developing RuO2-based electrode materials for
pseudocapacitors [1], the key factors determining their performances generally include (1)
electrochemical reversibility of electroactive materials, (2) electronic resistance “between”and
“within”electroactive particles, (3) contact resistance at the interface between current collector and
active materials, (4) proton conductivity and diffusivity between and within particulates, and (5)
pore structure and surface area. From these understandings on the charge storage/delivery
mechanism of hydrous RuO2 (denoted as RuO2xH2O), the ideal nanostructures of RuO2xH2O for
electrochemical supercapacitors can be effectively designed and tailored.
Experimental. Hydrous ruthenium oxide films were directly electrodeposited onto Ti substrates in
a potentiostatic mode. Before anodic deposition, these pretreated Ti substrates were dip-coated with
scanning electron microscopy, which is very different from the HF-etched, rough surface of a Ti
substrate. The as-deposited and annealed RuO2xH2O show “mud-cracked”morphologies while
cracks on the RuO2xH2O film become clear and large, and the surface of RuO2xH2O grains
becomes relatively smooth after annealing. The presence of cracks suggests the existence of inner
stress in the deposit while the relatively smooth surface is believed to result from the coalescence of
RuO2xH2O particulates in the film during the annealing process. This coalescence of RuO2xH2O
particulates can be effectively inhibited by the formation of RuO2xH2O nanocrystallites synthesized
through a hydrothermal method [2,3]. Note that the surface morphologies of as-deposited and
annealed RuO2xH2O films are very similar to that of dimensionally stable anodes (DSA) prepared
by thermal decomposition [4]. This porous, cracked nature was also proposed to be favorable for
the penetration of electrolytes [4-7], resulting in a better utilization of active species.
The maximum deposition rate can be promoted by adding excess acetate ions as the complex
agent into the RuCl3xH2O solution. Figures 2A and B show the scanning electron microscopic
(SEM) top images of RuO2xH2O NTs prepared by anodic deposition at 1.0 V for 20 min after
removing the AAO template. The homogenous opening reveals the success in the formation of a
nanotubular arrayed structure. The opening surface of these NTs is very rough, which implies the
adherent stacking of RuO2xH2O particulates from bottom of pores within the AAO membrane,
resulting in the formation of these NTs. Due to the metallic conductivity, the length of RuO2xH2O
NTs can be controlled by monitoring the variation in the deposition current density (Fig. 2C).
During the deposition, a gradual increase in the current density is observed at the onset of
overfilling due to the extension of effective surface area, which is clearly found from the
onset-overfilled morphology (Fig. 2D).
Fig. 2 (A, B) SEM top images of an RuO2xH2O NTs arrayed electrode; (C) the i-t curve of anodic
deposition measured at 1.0 V from a 10 mM RuCl3xH2O + 0.1 M CH3COONa solution; (D)
a SEM image shows the onset-overfilled morphology of a RuO2xH2O NTs arrayed
electrode.
Effects of the hydrothermal time on the crystal size and local structure of as-prepared RuO2⋅
xH2O particulates were further examined by X-ray diffraction (XRD), shown in Fig. 3(a). The XRD
patterns show four broad diffraction peaks corresponding to rutile RuO2 (in comparing with the
PDF#43-1027 database of rutile RuO2). These diffraction peaks become clearer with prolonging the
hydrothermal time, revealing the successful control on the crystal size of RuO2⋅xH2O by varying
the hydrothermal time although RuO2⋅xH2O prepared with a short hydrothermal time generally
shows an amorphous structure.
