行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
以文化為設計主軸的理論架構，探討不同文化範疇，電腦人
機介面互動的認知差異研究-以虛擬庭園設計為例 
The Implementation of Culture-Centred Design Methodology in HCI: A 
Virtual Garden for Taiwanese, North-American, English, Dutch, 
Mainland Chinese and Japanese Users 
 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2218-E-150-005- 
執行期間：94年8月1日至95年9月30日 
 
主持人：沈思岑             國立虎尾科技大學多媒體設計系 
共同主持人：陳坤淼         國家高速網路與計算中心 
 
一、 中文摘要 
探討文化中心之設計理論並以一個特定的文化為中心出發點，包含虛擬庭園創作
及評估要項流程，確保整體的隱喻設計介面，能夠適切地將特定文化背景的使用
者與視覺方面的互動圖像做結合，以提供現有全球化桌面隱喻的另類思考。實驗
設計測試的目的，是為確定在設計的過程裡，文化中心論運用是具實用性的。另
一方面，也希望能找出是否文化中心論，能對介面的實際使用性做改善，與觀察
是否其設計能具文化的價值在裡面。本研究計畫分為兩階段;第一階段著重於作
業系統與網頁瀏覽器的圖像設計，配合認知心理學理論以明確定義出互動式介面
設計與文化性之關係及人操作行為互動關係的改變。第二階段著重在使用者測試
部分，並予以分析使用者判讀辨識圖像之能力與其使用偏好，以建立使用者個別
文化導向之可能性。 
 
關鍵詞: 圖像認知，文化中心論，介面隱喻，圖像使用者介面設計 
 
Abstract  
This research addresses culturally-rooted factors within user interface design and 
interaction (HCI). Initially several culturally-related design priorities are identified, 
 2
Most software is developed directly or indirectly by the USA, and its interfaces have 
therefore been based primarily on American metaphors, representations, colour 
associations and navigational logic. This ignores the fact that for example, colour 
associations and text layouts differ widely from culture to culture. 
 
In the quest for compatibility through a level of standardisation, there is a danger of a 
loss of cultural identity and tradition. Examples are the traditional Japanese and 
Chinese literature or calligraphy that is written right to left and books that are read 
back to front. 
 
2.2 The Need for a Good (Culture-Centred) HCI Metaphor 
According to Johnson (1997), “for the digital revolution to take place, a computer 
must also represent itself to the user, in a language that the user understands” 
(Johnson, 1997:14). This statement points to the main question of how to minimise 
the misunderstanding of visual representations and support metaphorical reasoning in 
cognition. The role of metaphors in interface design is the key. Metaphors are 
culturally biased and may serve as a powerful communication tool, but only if 
implemented properly. 
 
Good interface metaphor should be developed or adapted to its cultural requirements 
with reference to, representatives of the culture for which it is intended. Many gurus 
such as Donald Norman have claimed that technology has reached a point of 
saturation. Nelson (1990) in ‘The Right Way to Think about Software Design’ 
considered the main problem of the metaphor was that “slavish adherence” to the 
predominant metaphor, which prevents the emergence of things that are genuinely 
new (Nielsen, 1990: 234). 
 
三、 結果與討論 
3.1 The Garden Operating System Interface 
The choice of metaphor, its visual execution and the consistency of its use would 
profoundly affect the look and feel of an interface and ultimately its usability. It would 
influence the efficiency and effectiveness of the application and user satisfaction. A 
good metaphor could provide for a naturally intuitive interface. The subsequent 
interface design that would be based on the garden metaphor could have an impact on 
user behaviour. The realisation that a computer can be structured organically, by 
which growth, multiplication and maintenance are key concepts, may influence the 
way a user applies and organises data.  
 
 4
Garden 
Sectors 
Usage of the traditional Chinese 
Garden 
Implementation of interface functions 
1. Atrium  A focal point at the centre of the garden. 
Usually a rock or a building. Sometimes 
used as a pond. 
Relaxation/creativity. 
For computer games or creative 
applications such as graphic drawing. 
2. Gallery For exhibition, display and presentation. Display/show case/presentation. 
Data and images can be organised into a 
portfolio, homepage, Web-log/on-line. 
3. Courtyard For storing maintenance equipment. Maintenance of files and folders.  
Back-up of data. Anti-virus 
applications.  
4. Home  Usually situated on one side of the 
garden. The Chinese considered the 
house to be part of the garden. 
Settings. 
Control panel, preferences, themes and 
printer. The system folder. 
5. Teahouse A teahouse for social events and 
entertainment e.g. games, chess, 
philosophical debates.  
Entertainment. 
For MP3 music, Real player, Quick 
Time applications, DVD and movies.  
6. Library  For reading and private collections. Internal and external drives. 
7. Nursery  A greenhouse with flowerpots (e.g. for 
cultivating young plants and bonsai) 
Recent/on-going projects. 
For temporary storage, data files that are 
recent or in progress, shortcuts, etc. 
8. Study Self-learning and organisation. Applications/information.  
Software applications, incl. the web 
browser. 
 
3.2 CCD Inter-Cultural Usability Evaluation 
The initial findings of the two evaluation protocols pointed to a positive attitude from 
all Chinese participants. The two phases of interaction testing, although small in scale, 
provided considerable insight into the usability of the CCD approach in a real world 
situation. The redesigned and improved interface was evaluated and compared with 
the results of both previous evaluations (heuristic evaluation and usability testing). 
 
To test the CCD methodology’s transferability and its feasibility to other cultural 
contexts, three user groups (experiment, observation and control groups) were 
involved i.e. Chinese, Oriental (Non-Chinese) and International users. An online 
usability evaluation was accompanied by a nine-item questionnaire and user 
 6
target group and its culture and consideration of the cultural filter (language, logic 
and taboos) are essential to the anticipation of user behaviour. The appropriate choice 
of metaphor and its consistent use are believed to be the keys to successful 
user-computer interaction. 
 
The resulting interface was largely icon based, as research showed that Chinese users 
have little problem in identifying and interpreting icons, because their language is 
character based. The choice of the Chinese traditional garden for the overarching 
metaphor proved insightful and was sufficiently accommodating to be translated to 
computer related systems and processes. The on-line HTML demonstration of the 
computer interface served as an indicative design, but was perhaps too basic for user 
evaluation purposes, as most details were not properly interactive. Prior knowledge 
and familiarity of computer interfaces has undoubtedly influenced or affected the 
respondent’s experience of the interface design. 
 
The garden metaphor, we believe, provides a direct link to the Chinese socio-cultural 
context, and is a concept which has been, in our opinion, remarkably under-utilised. 
This metaphor also has the advantage of being additionally applicable to other cultural 
contexts. 
 
The importance of the culture-rooted metaphor has been acknowledged when 
considering current cultural trends (Bentley, 2004), but as yet there are very few ways 
of tackling the culture-rooted usability problems that often occur in user interaction. 
The identification of a suitable culture-rooted metaphor lies at the basis of CCD. 
 
It should be noted that it is unrealistic to believe that the Chinese garden metaphor 
will revolutionise the way the world uses computers, however, it is a significant step 
in the right direction, which will hopefully prove its usefulness over time. The results 
to date are not conclusive, but do point to strong benefits and user acceptance. 
 
From the results, it is clear that the mean values and standard deviations are 
susceptible to changes in evaluator’s scores due to the small sample sizes and 
interpretation of the questions.  
 
However, the overall results of this study have shown very positive outcomes for the 
use of the CCD system and Chinese garden metaphor. The next phase involves the 
full user evaluation with a larger, culturally diverse population, including novices and 
experienced users, students, academic staff, remote users, and professional user 
 8
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：95年
10月8日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：以文化為設計主軸的理論架構，探討不同文化範疇，電
腦人機介面互動的認知差異研究-以虛擬庭園設計為例 
計畫主持人：沈思岑 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2218-E-150-005             
學門領域：工程處 
技術/創作名稱 中國式虛擬庭園介面設計與庭園網頁流覽器 
發明人/創作人 沈思岑 
中文： 
．運用文化中心論與認知心理學來做庭園式介面作業系統與網頁瀏
覽器的圖像設計。 
．運用使用者測試法與闡述式評量法來分析使用者判讀辨識圖像之
能力與其使用偏好。 
 
（100~500 字） 
技術說明 英文： 
‧ The use of Culture-Centred Design (CCD) Methodology and cognitive 
psychology to redesign the Garden Operating System and Web Browser.
‧ By using Usability Testing and Heuristic Evaluation to identify users’ 
behaviour and their preference  
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
2D/3D 立體虛擬庭園介面作業系統與 2D/3D 庭園網頁流覽器 
技術特點 
．運用文化中心論來強化個別使用者文化認同之特色，有別於全球
標準化下之微軟作業系統與其介面設計。 
．挑戰互動式介面設計與文化性之關係及使用者操作行為互動模
式。 
 
附件二 
 10
