 2
frequency domain zero-forcing (ZF) equalizer is given in [11]. 
Note that the design of the allocation algorithm with an MMSE 
equalizer can also be developed similarly for the proposed 
approach.   An optimization problem is to maximize achievable 
rates with power constraints of users. The achievable rate of 
user k is expressed as: 
,
Max
n kp
 ,k n kC p
112
, ,
22= log 1
k
n k n k
k k
n A
p H
N N 


              

subject to  , 0  for 1,2,...,n k kp n N  , ,1k
N
n k kn
p P                   
(1) 
We assign the same power ep  to all assigned subcarriers in 
user k. We have , /n k e k kp p P N  . Note that, based on the 
development in [10] and by assigning equal power to 
subcarriers, the problem of maximizing total achievable rates is 
transformed to the subcarrier allocation problem. With the 
equal power allocation approach, the additional complexity of 
assigning power to subcarriers is reduced. The performance is 
close to that of the waterfilling solution with power adaptation 
indicated in [10]. The achievable rate of user k with the equal 
power allocation approach can be expressed as: 
 
112
,
2, 2
112
,
22
, log 1
log 1 P
k
k
e n k
k e n k k k
n A
n k
k k
n A
p H
C p H N N
H
N






               
               


                          
(2) 
While considering a multi-user problem, the achievable rate 
can be expressed as: 
 
112
,
2, 2
1
,  log 1
k
K
n k
n k k k k
k n A
H
C H P N P 

 
               
          (3)                                         
The equivalent subcarrier CNR in the kth user denoted 
as kq can be expressed as 
112
,
2 ,   for 1,2,...,
k
n k
k
n A
H
q k K


          
                       (4)                             
The problem of maximizing the total achievable rate (3) with 
separate power constraints kP  in the multi-user DFT-precoded 
OFDM system can be re-written as: 
, 
Max
k kA N
    21,  log 1Kk k k k kkC q P N P q    
subject to  
P 0  for 1,2,...,k k K  , 0  for 1,2,...,kq k K  ,
1 2 ... KA A A A    , and 1
K
kk
N N   .                        (5) 
 As mentioned before, the problem (5) is a maximization 
problem of the sum rate in all users which is translated into a 
subcarriers allocation problem. The maximization is considered 
over all subcarrier allocation combinations,  kA  associated 
with kN , and with the power constraints of users { }kP . The 
problem (5) is a non-linear combinatorial optimization problem 
whose number of combinations grows exponentially. It is a 
NP-hard problem in multi-user DFT-precoded OFDM systems.  
With the constrained power and to allocate the equal power 
for the selected subbcariers, Fig. 1 shows an example of the 
achievable rate comparison after sorting channel gains of 
subcarriers for one user by varying the number of selected 
subcarriers in a DFT-precoded OFDMA system and a 
conventional OFDMA system. Referring to the curve of the 
DFT-precoded OFDMA system, selecting a specific number of 
subcarriers would obtain the maximum rate. The achievable 
rate falls because those subcarriers with worse channel states 
are included to divide the constrained power for both systems.  
A similar behavior can be observed for the OFDM system if the 
total transmit power is low. In many cases, the curves of 
DFT-precoded OFDMA systems are more likely to start to fall 
with a smaller number of selected subcarriers than those of 
OFDMA systems. In many scenarios, the users of an OFDMA 
system would employ as many subcarriers as possible to 
achieve better capacities due to the higher chance of the 
monotonic increase rate phenomenon. The proposed scheme is 
not designed to use the subcarriers as many as possible for the 
DFT-precoded OFDMA systems. The selection of the 
subbcariers becomes more important for DFT-precoded 
OFDMA systems. Besides, the total capacity of a user in an 
OFDMA system can be calculated by summing the capacity of 
the individual selected subcarriers [14]. The individual capacity 
of a single subcarrier can be calculated to determine the 
performance improvement, but it is not true in DFT-precoded 
OFDMA systems. The capacity of a user in the DFT-precoding 
OFDMA system can not be calculated by just summing the 
individual capacity of the selected subcarriers. The associated 
algorithm should be judiciously designed. Existing schemes 
such as [12-14] can not be utilized for the application to 
multi-user DFT-precoded OFDMA systems directly. Different 
subcarrier allocation strategies should be designed for the 
maximization problem in multi-user DFT-precoded OFDM 
systems. The problem becomes more complicated such that the 
strategy of the equal power allocation has to be imposed to 
reduce the complexity of the joint power and subbcarrier 
assignment problem. Therefore, a suboptimal subcarrier 
allocation scheme is presented and compared in this project.    
In additions, an iterative scheme is proposed to be utilized for 
improving the performance. It is also a novel part for solving 
the related formulated capacity maximization problems.  
III. SUBOPTIMAL SUBCARRIER ALLOCATION SCHEMES 
A. SUBCARRIER ALLOCATION SCHEME WITH A BRUTE FORCE 
SEARCH METHOD 
With equal power allocation, an optimum subcarrier 
allocation scheme for the single user problem (2) is presented in 
[10] for DFT-precoded OFDM systems. It is based on a brute 
force search approach to obtain the maximum achievable rate 
when the optimum set of subcarriers kA , the optimum number 
of subcarriers kN , and the equivalent CNR kq in (4) are found. 
The scheme consists of an initialization step and a multiuser 
“compare and compete” step. The basic idea of the brute force 
search is to sort the channel gains ,{ }n kH  in descending order, 
and iteratively allocate subcarriers until the maximum rate is 
achieved. The maximum achievable rate (2) is obtained by 
choosing proper subcarriers over all subcarriers as  
 
 
2 2 2 2
, 1, 2 , ,, ,...,
*
, 21    
, arg max log 1
n k k k N k
k
H H H H
n k k k k kN N
H N N P q

 
             (6)               
The sorting process and the step to select proper subcarriers 
among all subcarriers require a complexity of  logO N N N  
for the single user problem and it is optimal for the single user 
case. The single user approach is extended to solve the 
 4
performances. These two-phase allocation algorithms in [2-3] 
are composed of the initial subcarrier assignment and the 
iterative improvement two steps.  We may treat the subcarrier 
allocation obtained by the proposed scheme in Sec. III as an 
initial assignment solution. After the initial subcarrier 
assignment, an iterative refining scheme would be used to 
enhance the performance.  The similar idea can be utilize to 
enhance the scheme in [10]. 
Our goal is to maximize the total achievable rate (5). After 
the procedure of the proposed suboptimal scheme, an iterative 
refining subcarrier allocation scheme is applied to provide 
better performances. In this project, an iterative refining scheme 
(IRS) is proposed. The iterative refining scheme in the 
allocation process is described as follows. Referring to Fig. 3, in 
the second phase, the iterative refining scheme performs either 
a subcarrier swapping or a subcarrier reallocation operation 
after the proposed suboptimal scheme.  The swapping operation 
is that a subcarrier assigned to user i is reallocated to user j and 
a subcarrier assigned to user j is reallocated to user i to improve 
performance.  All swapping cases between paired users are 
listed to form the achievable rate improvement list  ,i jC : 
, , ,i j i j j iC C C                                                                                  (9) 
where ,i jC is the amount of the achievable rate improvement for 
the paired user (i, j) by the subcarrier swapping . On the other 
hand, the subcarrier reallocation operation in the iterative 
refining scheme is to re-assign a subcarrier owned by one user 
to another user. The numbers of subcarriers for users are 
adjusted. The achievable rate improvement factor *,i jC  for the 
reallocation operation is defined as  
* * *
, , ,i j i j j iC C C                                                                             (10) 
where    *, 1i j i iC C N C N    and    *, 1j i j jC C N C N    . 
The merged achievable rate improvement list by combining  ,i jC  and  * ,i jC  becomes 
*
, ,{ } { } { }merge i j i jC C C                                                                     (11) 
In both operations, there are various possible subcarrier 
swapping and reallocation cases between user i and user j. Only 
the case associated with the maximum achievable rate 
improvement is selected to be a candidate to swap or reallocate 
subcarriers between paired users, respectively. The case in 
{ }mergeC  with the most achievable rate improvement is selected 
and the associated operation is performed in an iterative fashion. 
The iteration stops when neither the swapping nor the 
reallocation operation can improve the achievable rate. The 
number of subcarriers for each user kN  would be different 
from the number determined in the first phase of the subcarrier 
assignment procedure.  
V. SIMULATION RESULTS 
The simulation results are presented to demonstrate the 
efficiency of the proposed suboptimal and the iterative refining 
allocation schemes for multi-user DFT-precoded OFDM uplink 
systems. The performance of the proposed schemes is 
compared with the allocation scheme in [10]. Users are 
uniformly distributed within the cell and the radius of the cell is 
2000m. The path loss is 58.5 dB at the reference distance of 
10m. The path loss exponent is 3.5 and the standard deviation 
of the lognormal shadowing is 7 dB. The maximum transmit 
power for each user is 1W. The multi-path model follows the 
COST207 typical urban 6-ray channel model with the 
normalized path power of [0.1894, 0.3788, 0.2386, 0.0947, 
0.0606, 0.0379] [15]. The effects of Doppler shift are ignored. 
There are 64 subcarriers in the uplink system with subcarrier 
spacing equal to 31.25 kHz. The noise power at each sub-carrier 
is -128.9 dBm.  There are three schemes for comparison in the 
simulation and listed as follows: Scheme 1: The subcarrier 
allocation scheme [10]; Scheme 2: The proposed suboptimal 
scheme; Scheme 3: The proposed suboptimal scheme with the 
iterative refining scheme; The simulation results shown in Figs. 
4-5 are the average values from 1000 trial runs. The evaluation 
of (5) is adopted as the performance index in the project whose 
unit is bits per OFDM symbol by summing over all subcarriers 
and users. 
Fig. 4 shows the performance curves by varying the numbers 
of users with the number of subcarriers = 64. The total 
achievable rates (bits/sec) by summing over all used subcarriers 
and all users are compared. The simulation results show that the 
proposed suboptimal scheme achieves better performance than 
that of the scheme in [10].  As indicated in the result, the 
performances of the proposed schemes are better than that of 
the existing scheme by varying the number of users. The 
improvement is getting obvious as the number of users 
increases. Multi-user diversity is exploited to allow the system 
to assign subcarriers to users with a higher degree of freedom. 
Better performances are further achieved. The performance of 
the proposed suboptimal scheme is improved by utilizing the 
proposed iterative scheme as shown in Fig. 4. Owning to good 
performance of the proposed scheme in Sec. III, the number of 
iterations is not large. The average number of iterations of the 
refining scheme is at the range of 2 to 7. Note that, the proposed 
scheme in Sec. III has obtained a pretty good solution, and it 
leads that the improvement by using the iterative refining 
scheme is not as large as that by applying the refining scheme to 
the scheme in [10]. Fig. 5 shows the total achievable sum rates 
(5) at different distances from the base station (BS) for 4 users. 
4 users are located in the same distance from BS for each 
simulation point. The performance degradation increases as the 
distance from BS increases. The localized SC-FDMA (LFDMA) 
in [7] is also implemented for the performance comparison. The 
proposed suboptimal schemes outperform those of the scheme 
in [10] and LFDMA in [7], but the structured subcarrier 
mapping in LFDMA offers lower PAPR.  Fig. 6 shows the 
PAPR performance for comparison. There are four users. The 
structured continuous subcarrier mapping as in [7] with 64 
subcarrier divided into four chunks is implemented for 
comparison, which is labeled “LFDMA” in the plot. 
Approximate 1 dB PAPR degradation is observed for this case. 
However, the capacity can be improved. It is worth 
investigating by trading off the PAPR and the capacity 
performance; it may not be worth scarifying the performance 
for reducing the PAPR as the amplifier technology may be 
improved. If the impact of the PAPR problem may be slightly 
mitigated but the related amplifier technology may still have 
some limitations for OFDMA systems, the proposed method 
can be applied to offer better capacity.  
VI. CONCLUSION 
The subcarrier and power allocation problem to maximize 
the total achievable rate is considered for multi-user 
DFT-precoded OFDM uplink systems in this project. A 
suboptimal allocation scheme is presented and compared with 
the existing scheme. The proposed scheme defines the spectral 
efficiency enhancement parameter as an index to assign 
subcarriers to users. It offers a lower computational complexity 
and better performance compared with the existing scheme. 
Besides, the iterative refining subcarrier allocation scheme is 
 6
 
 
 
Fig. 6. PAPR performance curves with 64 subcarriers and 4 users. 
 
 
Fig. 5. Total achievable rates by varying user distances with 64 subcarriers and 4 users. 
 
 
The proposed suboptimal allocation scheme
Exit
Is the total 
achievable rate 
improved?
NO
YES
Iterative refining allocation 
scheme
Perform the associated 
operation with the maximum 
improvement in the list
Iterative refining  phase:
 
 
Fig. 3. The procedure of the iterative refining subcarrier allocation scheme 
after the proposed suboptimal subcarrier allocation scheme. 
 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8
15
20
25
30
Number of Users
A
ch
ie
va
bl
e 
ra
te
 (
M
bi
ts
/s
ec
)
 
 
Scheme 3
Scheme 2
Scheme 1
 
Fig. 4. Performance comparison for different numbers of users among three
schemes and 64 subcarriers.  
 
 
A Decision Feedback CP-Assisted CDMA Scheme
Using Despreading Before Equalization
Dah-Chung Chang, Ruo-Yu Wu, and Yung-Fang Chen
Department of Communication Engineering, National Central University, Taiwan
E-mail: {dcchang, 975203010, yfchen}@cc.ncu.edu.tw
Abstract---We study a cyclic prefix (CP) assisted method used
for the uplink of code division multiple access (CDMA) systems
in which the code despreading is performed in front of the
frequency domain equalizer (FDE). The main advantage of the
new despreading scheme is that the required points of discrete
Fourier transform in the FDE are significantly reduced compared
to the conventional CDMA scheme. Although the CDMA system
can enhance system capacity as the number of users increases,
the multiuser interference (MUI) needs to be mitigated. In our
work, an iterative MUI cancellation method in a combination
of decision feedback equalization is proposed. Simulation results
show that the proposed scheme achieves the similar performance
to the conventional CP-CDMA system and the iterative MUI
cancellation method essentially eliminates most of MUI with only
a couple of iterations.
Index Terms---CDMA, Single Carrier, Cyclic Prefix, OFDM,
Frequency Domain Equalization, Decision Feedback, Multiuser
Interference.
I. Introduction
Direct sequence code division multiple access (DS-CDMA)
is the key single carrier (SC) wireless access technology
adopted in the 3G communication system. Two kinds of
receivers are typically used in a DS-CDMA system: Rake
receiver and time-domain equalization receiver. One of the
main drawback is that for the capacity of combating wireless
multipath channels, the DS-CDMA system is not as good
as orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM). The
performance of DS-CDMA receivers depends on the property
of the channel and the traffic load. Although OFDM has been
well recognized as the new technology for 4G and beyond, the
inherent property of high peak to average power ratio (PAPR)
of OFDM signals limits the use of uplink because of a stringent
requirement of low power [1]. Hence, the SC based system
such as SC frequency division multiple access (FDMA) or
SC-FDMA [2] [3] is considered as the uplink in 3GPP long
term evolution advanced (LTE-A) technology.
The capacity of CDMA can be improved as the number
of users increases. However, the multiuser interference (MUI)
will arise as the number of users increases, and hence, MUI
mitigation becomes an important issue in DS-CDMA systems.
A lot of research can be found in the literature [4] [5]. Those
MUI cancellation methods mainly include minimum mean
square error and zero-forcing receiver [6], subtractive inter-
ference cancellation, and more generally, parallel interference
cancellation (PIC) [7], and successive interference cancellation
(SIC) [8]. In recent years, a new method was proposed to
use 2-dimensional orthogonal variable spreading factor (2D-
OVSF) codes combined with chip-interleaved coding for DS-
CDMA uplink transmission [9]. The method intended to
reduce the complexity of canceling MUI.
One new advanced version regarding DS-CDMA is the SC
cyclic prefix (CP) assisted DS-CDMA (CP-CDMA) which
has began its study for the application of broadband cellular
system [10] [11]. As inserting a CP portion prior to the trans-
mitted symbol block, the relationship between the transmitted
signal and the channel impulse response can be transformed to
circular convolution from the linear convolution under setting
a proper length of CP. Hence, CP-CDMA has better capa-
bility of combating multipath channels than the conventional
DS-CDMA receivers through the one-tap per subcarrier fast
Fourier transform (FFT) based equalizer. However, a large
FFT size due to the chip rate operation and MUI cancellation
still attract continuous study on CP-CDMA.
In a conventional CP-CDMA receiver, the frequency do-
main equalizer (FDE) is performed before the code spreader
transforming chip based samples to symbol based samples [10]
[11]. In this paper, we study a new CP-CDMA receiver in
where the code despreader is placed in front of the FDE. In
the new receiver, the FDE operates at symbol rate rather than
at chip rate as the conventional CP-CDMA receiver does. In
addition, the FFT size in the new receiver becomes smaller.
However, the MUI effect can be more complicated. Some past
works regarding the new receiver can be found in the literature
[12] [13] [14]. They proposed different block spread schemes
to eliminate MUI. Their works need to limit the length of
the channel delay spread such that it is usually rather small
compared to the delay spread dealt with in typical OFDM
systems. In our work, we are concerned with a long channel
delay spread that is usually considered in an OFDM system,
e.g., one-quarter of an OFDM symbol block. We analyze the
desired signal of the new receiver and utilize the decision
feedback equalizer (DFE) to remove the residual intersymbol
interference (ISI). To mitigate MUI, we propose an iterative
two stages MUI canceler that requires only a couple of
iterations to achieve a satisfying performance. Simulations
show that the new receiver with proposed algorithms has
similar bit error rate (BER) performance to the conventional
receiver as well as a rather low complexity in implementing
the FDE.
II. Proposed CP-CDMA System Model
In Fig. 1, we depict a CP-CDMA system model which is
divided into transmitter and receiver parts. The CP-CDMA
receiver realizes the FDE by FFT and IFFT. As shown in
relationship s(m)lLc+k = d
(m)
l c
(m)
k , (6) becomes
y
′(m)
n =
1
Lc
Lc−1∑
t=0
Lh−1∑
l=0
Lc−1∑
k=0
h
(m)
[nLc+l−lLc−k]Ls
(m)
lLc+k
c
(m)
t
=
1
Lc
Lc−1∑
t=0
Lh−1∑
l=0
Lc−1∑
k=0
h
(m)
[(n−l)Lc+(t−k)]Ls
(m)
lLc+k
c
(m)
t
=
Lh−1∑
l=0
1
Lc
Lc−1∑
t=0
Lc−1∑
k=0
c
(m)
t c
(m)
k h
(m)
[(n−l)Lc+(t−k)]L︸ ︷︷ ︸
M
(m)
n−l
d
(m)
l (7)
Consider the term M (m)n−l as denoted in (7), we can divide the
result obtained from the summation over t into two parts:
(i) When t = k,
M
(m)
n−l =
1
Lc
Lc−1∑
t=0
c
(m)2
t h
(m)
[(n−l)Lc]L
= h˜
(m)
[n−l]Lh
(8)
where c(m)
2
t = 1 and h˜
(m)
[n−l]Lh
can be treated as the equivalent
channel impulse response at symbol rate.
(ii) When t ̸= k,
M
(m)
n−l =
1
Lc
Lc−1∑
t=0
t ̸=k
Lc−1∑
k=0
c
(m)
t c
(m)
k h
(m)
[(n−l)Lc+(t−k)]L
≈
h˜
(m)
[n−l]Lh
Lc
Lc−1∑
t=0
t ̸=k
Lc−1∑
k=0
c
(m)
t c
(m)
k (9)
where the approximation is true when assuming the channel is
almost time-invariant for every chips during a symbol interval.
As we choose that c(m)t approaches a white sequence and Lc
is large enough, the result in (9) is close to zero.
Combining (7), (8), and (9), the DFT output of y
′(m)
n is
Y
′(m)
k =DFTN{
Lh−1∑
l=0
h˜
(m)
[n−l]Lh
d
(m)
l +
Lh−1∑
l=0
M
(m)
n−ld
(m)
l }
=DFTN{h˜(m)n ⊗ d(m)n + w¯(m)n (h, c, d)}
= H˜
(m)
k D
(m)
k + W¯
(m)
k (h, c, d) (10)
with k = 0, 1, · · · , N − 1 where H˜(m)k = DFTN{h˜(m)n },
D
(m)
k = DFTN{d(m)n } , and W¯ (m)k (h, c, d) =
DFTN{w¯(m)n (h, c, d)} which accounts for a nonzero
value of M (m)n−l obtained from (9). Note that the value of
W¯
(m)
k (h, c, d) is complicated and related to channel response,
spreading code, and transmitted data. However, it can be
a small variation in practical application as we explained
above. For simplicity, we treat it an additional noise to the
receiver in this paper.
B. MUI Removal
From (10), we can obtain D(m)k from the desired signal
Y
′(m)
k by using least square error (LSE) or minimum mean
Remove
Cyclic
Prefix
FFT IFFT
MMSE
equalizer
Remove
MUI FFT IFFT
MMSE
equalizer
DFE
( )uc
( )mc
( )uc
1 ~u P 
u mz
1 ~u P 
u mz
Stage 1
Stage 2
¦
¦
despreading
despreading
r
( )uy ( )uY
( )u
kG
( )uD ( )ud
( )
ˆ
uh
( )ud
( )mv
( )my ( )mY
( )mG
( )mD ( )md ( )ˆ md
Fig. 2: Functional block of MUI removal
square error (MMSE) methods once the channel response is
given. However, the ideal desired signal can be only obtained
when the MUI signal, i.e., the second term of (4) is properly
removed. Note that from (3) the MUI term can be canceled as
the channel impulse response h(u) and the transmitted signal
s(u) can be estimated. Taking advantage of the residual MUI
being able to be further reduced after passing through the
despreading operation, we propose an MUI removal algorithm
in front of the code despreader. The proposed structure is
depicted in Fig. 2. This algorithm can be separated into Stage
1 and Stage 2.
(i) Stage 1: In this stage, we only applies the despreading to
roughly reduce the effect of MUI and noises, then a frequency
domain MMSE equalizer is used to yield the intial estimate of
d(u), denoted as d¯(u). From (4) and (10), we can obtain the
DFT output signal of y(m)n as follows:
Y
(m)
k = H˜
(m)
k D
(m)
k + Z
(m)
k,MUI + Z˜
(m)
k (11)
where Z(m)k,MUI is the DFT output of the second term in (4)
and Z˜(m)k is simply treated as a new AWGN in the frequency
domain, Z˜(m)k = W¯
(m)
k (h, c, d)+DFTN{zn}. From (11), we
can find the coefficients of the MMSE equalizer by giving
G
(u)
1,k =
H˜
(u)∗
k∣∣∣H˜(u)k ∣∣∣2 + σ2w˜σ2d (12)
where σ2w˜ = σ2MUI + σ2z˜ is the noise power in total, σ2MUI =
E[Z
(m)H
k,MUIZ
(m)
k,MUI], σ2z˜ = E[Z˜
(m)H
k Z˜
(m)
k ], and σ2d is the signal
power. Here, we can deal with MUI as an interference noise
coming from the channel, then the spreading code with longer
length has better capability of MUI suppression.
(ii) Stage 2: We utilizes the initial estimate d¯(u) or the
decision feedback result dˆ(u) to yield sˆ(u). As the channel
estimate hˆ(u) is obtained as well, we can use (3) to calculate
the desired signal for mth user in the following:
v(m) = r−
P∑
u=1
u̸=m
hˆ(u) ⊗ sˆ(u)
= h(m) ⊗ s(m) + g(m) + z (13)
TABLE I: Complexity Comparison of the FDE
Proposed Conventional
multiplication multiplication
FFT N2 log2(N)
NLc
2 log2(NLc)
IFFT N2 log2(N)
NLc
2 log2(NLc)
Equalizer N NLc
total N [log2(N) + 1] NLc[log2(NLc) + 1]
noise power can be obtained in the following:
σˆ2w,UBE =
1
NT (N − 1)
NT−1∑
q=0
N−1∑
k=0
∥∥∥∥Y (m)k (q)−D(m)k (q) ˆ˜H(m)k ∥∥∥∥2
(21)
where Y (m)k (q) and D
(m)
k (q) denote the qth received training
signal and transmitted training signal at kth subcarrier for mth
user in the frequency domain, respectively.
IV. Complexity Comparison
The proposed scheme moves the code despreader to the font
of the frequency domain equalizer in order to reduce the cost
of equalization. The comparison of computational complexity
is listed in Table I. Since the main cost of complexity is
multipliers, we list the required number of multiplication. The
similar result can be observed for the number of addition
operation. Here, we consider the MUI cancellation at chip rate.
The complexity due to the MUI canceler is therefor the same
for the both schemes. The main difference is on the operation
of FFT and IFFT. The FDE in the conventional scheme works
with the FFT size of Lc times more than that used in the
proposed scheme. For an example of numerical comparison,
assuming N = 64 and Lc = 31, the required number
of complex multiplication for the FDE in the conventional
scheme is about 23808 while that in the proposed scheme is
only 448. The conventional scheme leads to a ratio of about
53 more than the proposed scheme. As the number of NLc
increases, the proposed scheme saves more computational load
than the conventional scheme.
V. Simulation Results
In our simulation, the transmitted data is Gray-coded 16-
QAM modulation and N = 64 symbols are used for a block
at symbol rate. The length of CP is chosen as 14N and the
tap number of the multipath channel is set to be 8 which
is the effective channel delay spread at symbol rate. The
spreading codes are pseudo random (PN) sequences with two
different length 15 and 31 for the purpose of comparison. To
compare the MUI removal efficiency, two and four users with
independent multipath channels are simulated. For each user,
we assume two initial uncorrelated symbol blocks, i..e., 128
pilots are transmitted for LSE channel estimation. We regularly
insert block symbol pilots for noise power estimation.
In Fig. 4, we show one of the channel estimation results
in the frequency domain for two kinds of different pilot
and code patterns at SNR=∞. It should be not surprising
that the estimated channel values for different patterns has
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
−20
−18
−16
−14
−12
−10
−8
−6
−4
−2
0
Channel Estimation SNR=inf
Subcarrier Index
Am
pl
itu
de
 R
es
po
ns
e(d
B)
 
 
pattern.#1(c1,p1)
pattern.#2(c1,p2)
pattern.#3(c2,p1)
pattern.#4(c2,p2)
real−channel
Fig. 4: Initial channel estimation for different pilot and spread-
ing code patterns
slight variation even when the noise is assumed zero because
W¯
(m)
k (h, c, d) is not zero. However, the estimated results are
rather close to the real channel.
In this paper we propose an iterative decision feedback
method to reduce the residual MUI effect. Consider the case of
four users, we compare the BER performance v.s. the number
of iteration for different Lc and SNR. The BER performance
for longer length of spreading code and larger SNR is better.
No matter how long the length of spreading code, at different
SNR, the proposed iterative method can effectively remove the
MUI and achieve the steady state performance within about
two iterations. Therefore, in the next simulation we choose
two iterations in our algorithm.
In Figs. 6 and 7 we compare the conventional CP-CDMA
and the proposed CP-CDMA schemes with Lc = 15 and
Lc = 31 for the case of two users. The efficiency of the
DFE and MUI cancellation (MUIC) functions is also shown.
The proposed scheme without (w/o) using MUIC results in the
worst performance since the move of the code despreader leads
to severe MUI. In contrast, the conventional scheme is better
than the proposed when the DFE and MUIC are not utilized.
As the proposed scheme utilizes the MUIC function, the BER
performance shows dramatic improvement. The performance
improved by the DFE is not as significant as that obtained
by MUIC because the effect due to W (m)k (h, c, d) is far less
than MUI. When the DFE and MUIC functions are both
used, the proposed scheme achieves rather close result to the
conventional scheme. The same comparison for the case of
four users is shown in Fig. 8. In this case, the proposed scheme
only shows a slightly worse performance than the conventional
even though the MUI effect becomes more serious. However,
the proposed scheme gains great reduction of complexity.
VI. Conclusion
We study a new CP-CDMA receiver with proposed DFE
and iterative two-stage MUI cancellation algorithm. The merit
of the new CP-CDMA receiver is that it can be performed
with a smaller FFT size than the conventional CP-CDMA
receiver. To preserve this property, the proposed algorithm can
work in a multipath channel of long delay spread as a typical
OFDM system can do. Besides, with only a couple of iterations
 
HOME
REGISTRATION
GENERAL CHAIR'S 
WELCOME
EXECUTIVE CHAIR'S 
MESSAGE
TPC CHAIR'S MESSAGE
CONFERENCE PROGRAM
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
ADVANCE SYMPOSIUM 
PROGRAM
TUTORIALS
WORKSHOPS
ADVANCE WORKSHOPS 
PROGRAM
STUDENT TRAVEL GRANTS
AUTHOR PRESENTATION 
GUIDELINES
SESSION CHAIR 
GUIDELINES
BUSINESS FORUM
EXHIBITION
VENUE
ACCESS
ACCOMMODATION
TOURS
GENERAL INFORMATION
VISA
COMMITTEES
CALL FOR PAPERS
CFP FOR WORKSHOPS
CFP FOR BUSINESS FORUM
TECHNICAL SYMPOSIA
AUTHOR GUIDELINES
CAMERA READY 
SUBMISSION GUIDELINES
IMPORTANT DATES
PAST CONFERENCES
FAQ
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stop-Over Events
Luncheon at ICC 2011 for 
Women in Communications 
Engineering 
IEEE TTM'11
 
 
CALL FOR PAPERS CONFERENCE PROGRAM REGISTRATION VENUE
ADVANCE SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM
 
 
 Notes for presenters  
This Advance Symposium Program might be changed due to some reason. Please confirm your session 
once again by the Final Symposium Program to be issued early in April at this website. 
•
For some author, this Advance Symposium Program is different from the information informed by the 
acceptance letter since we modified it to avoid the presentations overlapping in time for multiple paper 
presenters and to consider the registration status. 
•
 Schedule  
Monday, June 6 •
Tuesday, June 7 •
Wednesday, June 8 •
Monday, June 6
 
>> Page Top 
10:50 - 12:20
AHSM-01: Power and Energy Control
Room: B-2 
Chair: Mohamed Younis (University of Maryland Baltimore County, USA)
10:50 Impact of Power Control on Capacity of TDM-scheduled Wireless Mesh Networks
Parth Pathak (North Carolina State University, USA); Rudra Dutta (North Carolina State 
University, USA)
11:08 Increasing Transmission Power for Higher Base-station Anonymity in Wireless 
Sensor Network
Mohamed Younis (University of Maryland Baltimore County, USA); Yousef Ebrahimi 
(University of Maryland Baltimore County, USA)
11:26 Prolonging Network Lifetime via Nodal Energy Balancing in Heterogenous 
Wireless Sensor Networks
Afshin Behzadan (Ryerson University, Canada); Alagan Anpalagan (Ryerson University, 
Canada); Ngok-Wah Ma (Ryerson University, Canada)
11:44 Minimum-energy-cost Algorithm Based on Superframe Adaptation Control
Qiang Lin (Fujitsu R&D Center, P.R. China); Jun Tian (Fujitsu R&D Center Co., Ltd., P.R. 
China)
12:02 Adaptive Sleeping Periods in IEEE 802.15.4 for Efficient Energy Savings: Markov-
Based Theoretical Analysis
Mounib Khanafer (University of Ottawa, Canada); Mouhcine Guennoun (University of 
Ottawa, Canada); Hussein Mouftah (University of Ottawa, Canada)
AHSM-02: Energy-Aware MAC Protocols for Wireless Sensor Networks
Room: I 
Chair: Lynda Mokdad (Université de Paris 12 & Laboratoire LACL, France)
10:50 Energy-aware Adaptive MAC protocol for Real-time Sensor Networks
Benazir Fateh (Iowa State University, USA); Manimaran Govindarasu (Iowa State 
University, USA)
11:08 An Energy Efficient Priority-based QoS MAC Protocol for Wireless Sensor 
Networks
Jalel Ben-othman (University of Versailles, France); Lynda Mokdad (Université de Paris 12, 
France); Bashir Yahya (University of Versailles, France)
11:26 A Dual-Radio Framework for MAC Protocol Implementation in Wireless Sensor 
Networks
Manjunath Doddavenkatappa (National University of Singapore, Singapore); Mun Choon 
Chan (National University of Singapore, Singapore); Akkihebbal L. Ananda (National 
University of Singapore, Singapore)
11:44 A Cooperative Low Power Mac Protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks
Ahmed Ben Nacef (INP Toulouse, Tunisia); Sidi-Mohammed Senouci (University of 
Bourgogne - ISAT Nevers, France); Yacine Ghamri-Doudane (Université Paris-Est (LIGM 
Lab) & ENSIIE, France); Andre-Luc Beylot (ENSEEIHT, France)
12:02 P-MAC: A Cross-Layer Duty Cycle MAC Protocol Towards Pipelining for Wireless 
Sensor Networks
頁 1 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Liang Tang (University of Science and Technology of China, P.R. China); Jin Zhu 
(University of Science and Technology of China, P.R. China); Hong-Sheng Xi (University of 
Science and Technology of China, P.R. China)
11:26 A Comparison of Channel Switching Schemes for IPTV Systems
Daniel A. G. Manzato (State University of Campinas, Brazil); Nelson L. S. da Fonseca (State 
University of Campinas, Brazil)
11:44 QoE-driven Sender Bitrate Adaptation Scheme for Video Applications over IP 
Multimedia Subsystem
Asiya Khan (University of Plymouth, United Kingdom); Is-Haka Mkwawa (University of 
Plymouth, United Kingdom); Lingfen Sun (University of Plymouth, United Kingdom); 
Emmanuel Ifeachor (University of Plymouth, United Kingdom)
12:02 On the Comparison of Real-Time Rate Control Schemes for H.264/AVC Video 
Streams over IP-based networks using network feedbacks
Lampros Dounis (Technological Educational Institute of Messolonghi, Greece); Ilias Politis 
(Technological Eucational Institute of Messolonghi, Greece); Tasos Dagiuklas 
(Technological Educational Institute of Mesolonghi, Greece)
CTS-01: Channel Coding
Room: 501 
Chair: Michael Rice (Brigham Young University, USA)
10:50 A Sphere-Packing Analysis of Incremental Redundancy with Feedback
Tsung-Yi Chen (UCLA, USA); Nambi Seshadri (Broadcom, USA); Richard Wesel (University 
of California, Los Angeles, USA)
11:08 Turbo Codes Based on Time-Variant Memory-1 Convolutional Codes over Fq
Gianluigi Liva (DLR (German Aerospace Center), Germany); Enrico Paolini (DEIS, WiLAB, 
University of Bologna, Italy); Sandro Scalise (DLR (German Aerospace Center), Germany); 
Marco Chiani (University of Bologna, Italy)
11:26 On Efficient Recovery of Erased Symbols in Generalized Reed-Solomon Codes
Joschi Brauchle (Technische Universität München, Germany)
11:44 Channel Coding over Multiple Coherence Blocks with Queueing Constraints
Deli Qiao (University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA); M. Cenk Gursoy (University of Nebraska-
Lincoln, USA); Senem Velipasalar (University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA)
12:02 The Performance of Short Random Linear Fountain Codes under Maximum 
Likelihood Decoding
Birgit Schotsch (RWTH Aachen University, Germany); Henning Schepker (University of 
Bremen, Germany); Peter Vary (RWTH Aachen University, Germany)
CQRM-01: Design of Reliable Networks
Room: G 
Chair: Hideaki Yoshino (NTT, Japan)
10:50 Scheme to Find k Disjoint Paths in Multi-Cost
Ruchaneeya Leepila (The University of Electro-Communications, Japan); Eiji Oki (The 
University of Electro-Communications, Japan); Naoto Kishi (The University of Electro-
Communications, Chofu, Tokyo, Japan)
11:08 Shared Backup Path Protection for Anycast and Unicast Flows Using the Node-
Link Notation
Krzysztof Walkowiak (Wroclaw University of Technology, Poland); Jacek Rak (Gdansk 
University of Technology, Poland)
11:26 Collaborative Resource Allocation for Self-Healing in Self-Organizing Networks
Kisong Lee (KAIST, Korea); Howon Lee (KAIST Institute, Korea); Dong-Ho Cho (Korea 
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Korea)
11:44 On the robustness of optimal network designs
Arie M. C. A. Koster (RWTH Aachen University, Germany); Manuel Kutschka (RWTH 
Aachen University, Germany); Christian Raack (Zuse-Institute Berlin, Germany)
12:02 Design and Analysis of Networks with Large Components in Presence of Region-
Based Faults
Sujogya Banerjee (Arizona State University, USA); Shahrzad Shirazipourazad (Arizona 
State University, USA); Arunabha Sen (ASU, USA)
NGNI-01: Router Architecture & Switch Design I
Room: F 
Chair: Hiroaki Harai (NICT, Japan)
10:50 Energy-Conserving Switch Architecture for LANs
Candy Yiu (Portland State University, USA); Suresh Singh (Portland State University, USA)
11:08 Selective-Request Round-Robin Scheduling for VOQ Packet Switch Architecture
Dong Lin (Hong Kong University of Science & Technology, Hong Kong); Ying Jiang (Hong 
Kong University of Science & Technology, Hong Kong); Mounir Hamdi (Hong Kong 
University of Science and Technology, P.R. China)
11:26 Bit-Shuffled Trie: IP Lookup with Multi-Level Index Tables
Derek Pao (City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Ziyan Lu (City University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong); Yat Hang Poon (City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong)
11:44 Multi-Level Round-Robin Multicast Scheduling with Look-Ahead Mechanism
Hao Yu (Technical University of Denmark, Denmark); Sarah Ruepp (Technical University of 
Denmark, Denmark); Michael S. Berger (Technical University of Denmark, Denmark)
12:02 A Lock-Controlled Session Table Partitioning Scheme with Dynamic Resource 
Balancing for Multi-Core Architecture
Tsai Wen-Yen (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Nen-Fu Huang (National Tsing Hua 
University, Taiwan); Hsien-Wei Hung (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan)
ONS-01: Energy Efficiency
Room: 554 
頁 3 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Portugal); Henrique Martins (Ci2 - Centro de Investigação e Criatividade em Informática, 
HFF, Portugal)
SAC SSC-P: Topics on Satellite and Space Communication
Room: Plaza in front of Event Hall 
Chair: Takaya Yamazato (Nagoya University, Japan)
Raptor Coding for Non-Orthogonal Multiple Access Channels
Mohammad Jabbari Hagh (Concordia University, Canada); M. Reza Soleymani (Concordia 
Univerisity, Canada)
Flexible On-line Construction of IRA Codes for Packet Erasure Correction with 
Application to Aeronautical Communications
Gianluigi Liva (DLR (German Aerospace Center), Germany); Paola Pulini (German 
Aerospace Center (DLR), Germany); Marco Chiani (University of Bologna, Italy)
RF Emitter Location Using A Network of Small Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (SUAVs)
Jing Liang (University of Electronic Science and Technology, P.R. China); Qilian Liang 
(University of Texas at Arlington, USA)
SPC-01: Estimation-1
Room: 555 
Chair: Iyad Dayoub (University Lille Nord de France, France)
10:50 Channel Estimation for Two-Way Relay Networks under Time-Selective 
Environment
Gongpu Wang (University of Alberta, Canada); Feifei Gao (Jacobs University, Bremen, 
Germany); Wen Chen (Shanghai Jiaotong Uuniversity, P.R. China); Chintha Tellambura 
(University of Alberta, Canada)
11:08 Superimposed Training Based Channel Estimation for OFDM Modulated AF Relay 
Networks
Feifei Gao (Jacobs University, Bremen, Germany); Bin Jiang (Southeast University, P.R. 
China); Xiqi Gao (Southest University, P.R. China); Xianda Zhang (Tsinghua University, 
P.R. China)
11:26 Doubly Selective Cascaded Channel Estimation in Amplify-and-Forward Relay 
Systems
Loi"c J.P. Canonne-Velasquez (McGill University, Canada); Hung Nguyen-Le (McGill 
University, Canada); Tho Le-Ngoc (McGill University, Canada)
11:44 Distributed Angle Estimation for Wireless Sensor Network Localization with 
Multipath Fading
Weile Zhang (Xi'an Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Qinye Yin (Xi'an Jiaotong University, 
P.R. China); Hongyang Chen (Fujitsu Laboratories Limited, Japan); Wenjie Wang (Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Tomoaki Ohtsuki (Keio University, Japan)
12:02 Channel Estimation Improvement for MIMO Single-Carrier Block Transmission 
System
Yafei Hou (Ryukoku University, Japan); Tomohiro Hase (Ryukoku University, Japan)
WCS-01: OFDM I
Room: C-1 
Chair: Fumiyuki Adachi (Tohoku University, Japan)
10:50 A Novel Link Error Prediction Model for OFDM Systems with HARQ
Josep Colom Ikuno (Vienna University of Technology, Austria); Christian Mehlführer (Vienna 
University of Technology, Austria); Markus Rupp (Vienna University of Technology, Austria)
11:08 Capacity Based Adaptive Power Allocation for the OFDM Relay Networks with 
Limited Feedback
Yong Liu (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Wen Chen (Shanghai Jiaotong 
Uuniversity, P.R. China); Xiaopeng Huang (Stevens Institute of Technology, USA)
11:26 A New SNR Prediction Method for MIMO-OFDM Systems with Maximum Likelihood 
Detector
Jihoon Kim (Korea University, Korea); Sung-Hyun Moon (Korea University, Korea); Chang 
Kyung Sung (CSIRO, Australia); Inkyu Lee (Korea University, Korea)
11:44 Efficient OFDM Denial: Pilot Jamming and Pilot Nulling
T. Charles Clancy (Virginia Tech, USA)
12:02 Joint Cyclostationarity-based Detection and Classification of Mobile WiMAX and 
LTE OFDM Signals
Ala'a Al-Habashna (Memorial University of Newfoundland, Canada); Octavia A. Dobre 
(Memorial University of Newfoundland, Canada); Ramachandran Venkatesan (Memorial 
University of Newfoundland, Canada); Dimitrie C. Popescu (Old Dominion University, USA)
WCS-02: Relay Systems I
Room: C-2 
Chair: Yao-Win Peter Hong (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan)
10:50 Range of Achievable Diversity Order in Multiple Relay Networks with Multiple 
Users
Junsu Kim (University of British Columbia, Canada); Diomidis S. Michalopoulos (University 
of British Columbia, Canada); Robert Schober (University of British Columbia, Canada)
11:08 Outage Probability and SER of Multi-antenna Fixed Gain Relaying in Cooperative 
MIMO Networks
Phee Lep Yeoh (University of Sydney, Australia); Maged Elkashlan (CSIRO, ICT Centre, 
Australia); Iain B. Collings (CSIRO, Australia)
11:26 Achieving Space Diversity with Non-coherent AF Relaying
Shenghui Song (The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong); 
Khaled Ben Letaief (Hong Kong University of Science & Technology, Hong Kong)
11:44 Repetition-Based Non-Coherent Multi-Hop Relaying in Block Rayleigh Fading
頁 5 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Chia-Shiang Tseng (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Chang-Ching Chen (National 
Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Che Lin (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan)
Gaussian Integer Sequences with Ideal Periodic Autocorrelation Functions
Wei-Wen Hu (National Sun Yat-sen University, Taiwan); Sen-Hung Wang (National Sun Yat
-Sen University, Taiwan); Chih-Peng Li (National Sun Yat-Sen University, Taiwan)
Determining the Complexity of FH/SS Sequences by Fuzzy Entropy
Xiaojun Chen (Xidian University, P.R. China); Zan Li (Xidian University, P.R. China); 
JiangBo Si (Xi'dian university, P.R. China); Benjian Hao (Xidian University, P.R. China); 
Baoming Bai (Xidian University, P.R. China)
CS-CDMA/CP with the Chu Sequence: A Bandwidth-Efficient Multi-Access Scheme for 
Fast Fading Multipath Channels
Li Yue (University of Electro-Communications, Japan); Chenggao Han (University of Electro-
Communications, Japan); Takeshi Hashimoto (University of Electro-Communications, 
Japan)
On the Injection-Level Optimization for Digital Television Transmitter Identification 
Systems Using Kasami Sequences
Xiaoyu Feng (Louisiana State University, USA); Hsiao-Chun Wu (Louisiana State University, 
USA); Shih Yu Chang (National Tsing Hua University of Taiwan, Taiwan)
Optimal Uplink Pilot Time Interval Design for TDD MISO Beamforming Systems with 
Channel Estimation Error and Delay
Baolong Zhou (Shanghai Jiaotong University, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, P.R. China); 
Lingge Jiang (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Lei Zhang (Alcatel-Lucent 
Shanghai Bell, P.R. China); Chen He (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Shengjie 
Zhao (Bell Labs, USA); Kun Zhao (Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, P.R. China)
Improved Generation Efficiency for Key Extracting from Wireless Channels
Sun Xiaojun (Southeast University, P.R. China); Wei Xu (Southeast University, P.R. China); 
Ming Jiang (Southeast University, P.R. China); Chunming Zhao (Southeast University, P.R. 
China)
Deterministic Equivalents for the Performance Analysis of Isometric Random Precoded 
Systems
Jakob Hoydis (SUPÉLEC, France); Romain Couillet (Supélec, France); Mérouane Debbah 
(Supelec, France)
DCF performance analysis of open- and closed-loop adaptive IEEE 802.11n networks
Gabriel Martorell (Universitat de les Illes Balears, Spain); Felip Riera-Palou (University of 
the Balearic Islands, Spain); Guillem Femenias (Universitat de les Illes Balears, Spain)
RFID Tag Filtering Protocol
Manabu Inuma (National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, Japan); 
Akira Otsuka (AIST, Japan); Yasushi Inatomi (Panasonic Corporation, Japan); Atsushi 
Minemura (Panasonic Corporation, Japan); Tatsuya Takehisa (Japan Datacom, CO., Ltd., 
Japan)
An Information-Theoretic Approach to Accelerated Simulation of Hybrid-ARQ Systems
Matthew Valenti (West Virginia University, USA)
Stochastic Modeling of Microwave Oven Interference in WLANs
Marcel Nassar (The University of Texas at Austin, USA); Xintian Lin (Intel Labs, USA); Brian 
L Evans (The University of Texas at Austin, USA)
Two-cell MISO Interfering Broadcast Channel with Limited Feedback: Adaptive Feedback 
Strategy and Multiplexing Gains
Namyoon Lee (Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, Korea); Wonjae Shin (Samsung 
Advanced Institute of Technology (SAIT), Korea); Young-Jun Hong (Samsung Electronics 
Co., Ltd., Korea); Bruno Clerckx (Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, Korea)
Compressive Sensing for the Capacity of a Rayleigh fading channel
Jocelyn Aulin (Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden); Djordje Jeremic (Chalmers 
University of Technology, Sweden)
Parametric Modeling of the Cross-Correlation for Large-Scale-Fading of Propagation 
Channels
Xuefeng Yin (Tongji University, P.R. China); Xu Zhou (Tongji University, P.R. China); Byung
-Jae Kwak (Electronics and Telecommuncations Research Institute, USA); Hyun Kyu Chung 
(ETRI, Korea)
Analysis of a cross-layer Hybrid-ARQ scheme: application to unequal packet protection
Aude Le Duc (ESME-SUDRIA, France); Philippe Ciblat (Telecom ParisTech, France); 
Christophe J. Le Martret (THALES Communications, France)
On Repetition Protocols and Power Control for Multiple Access Block-Fading Channels
Davide Barbieri (University of Illinois at Chicago, Italy); Daniela Tuninetti (University of 
Illinois at Chicago, USA)
WNS-01: Cognitive Networking I
Room: J 
Chair: Tao Jiang (Huazhong University of Science and Technology, P.R. China)
10:50 Cross-Layer Design for Cognitive MIMO Ad-Hoc Networks
Amiotosh Ghosh (Concordia University, Canada); Walaa Hamouda (Concordia University, 
Canada)
11:08 Channel Assignment of Cooperative Spectrum Sensing in Multi-channel Cognitive 
Radio Networks
Weiwei Wang (University of Manitoba, Canada); Behzad Kasiri (University of Manitoba, 
Canada); Jun Cai (University of Manitoba, Canada); Attahiru S. Alfa (University of Manitoba, 
Canada)
11:26 Stopping Rule-Driven Channel Access in Multi-Channel Cognitive Radio Networks
Ho Ting Cheng (Huawei Technologies Canada, Canada); Hangguan Shan (Zhejiang 
University, P.R. China); Weihua Zhuang (University of Waterloo, Canada)
11:44 A Novel Frequency Sense Solution for Cognitive Radio Based on Tracing 
Localization
Yiming Wang (Soochow University, P.R. China); Liulei Zhou (Soochow University, P.R. 
China); Ruhai Wang (Lamar University, USA)
12:02 Link-layer Resource Allocation for Voice Users in Cognitive Radio Networks
Khaled Ali (University of Waterloo, Canada); Weihua Zhuang (University of Waterloo, 
Canada)
頁 7 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
14:00 Energy Efficient Sequential Sensing for Wideband Multi-channel Cognitive Network
Miao Xu (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); He Li (Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, P.R. China); Xiaoying Gan (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China)
14:18 Analysis of Scaled Largest Eigenvalue Based Detection for Spectrum Sensing
Lu Wei (Aalto University, Finland); Olav Tirkkonen (Aalto University, Finland)
14:36 Spectrum Sensing Algorithms via Finite Random Matrix Theory
Giuseppe Abreu (CWC, University of Oulu, Finland); Wensheng Zhang (Keio University, 
Japan); Yukitoshi Sanada (Keio University, Japan)
14:54 Efficient Spectrum Sensing via Multiple Primary Users Cooperation in Cognitive 
Radio Networks
Tao Jiang (Huazhong University of Science and Technology, P.R. China); Zhiqiang Wang 
(Huazhong University of Science and Technology, P.R. China); Tingting Jin (Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, P.R. China)
15:12 Spectrum Sensing for Cognitive Radios over Frequency Selective Channels in 
White Noise
Jitendra Tugnait (Auburn University, USA)
CISS-03: Wireless Security
Room: 509 
Chair: Sattar B. Sadkhan (University of Babylon & Chair of IEEE IRAQ - Section, Iraq)
14:00 Lightweight Attacks against Channel Assignment Protocols in MIMC Wireless 
Networks
Qijun Gu (Texas State University-San Marcos, USA); Meng Yu (Virginia Commonwealth 
University, USA); Wanyu Zang (Virginia Commonwealth University, USA); Peng Liu 
(Pennsylvania State University, USA)
14:18 Measuring and Analyzing WiMAX Security and QoS in Testbed Experiments
Perumalraja Rengaraju (Carleton University, Canada); Chung-Horng Lung (Carleton 
University, Canada); Anand Srinivasan (Carleton University, Canada)
14:36 RISE: Receipt-Free Cooperation Incentive Scheme for Multihop Wireless Networks
Mohamed Mahmoud (University of Waterloo, Canada); Sherman Shen (University of 
Waterloo, Canada)
14:54 muDog: Smart Monitoring Mechanism for Wireless Sensor Networks based on 
IEEE 802.15.4 MAC
Abderrezak Rachedi (University Paris-Est Marne-la-Vallée, France); Hend Baklouti 
(Laboratoire d'Informatique Gaspard Monge (LIGM), France)
15:12 A One-Pass Key Establishment Protocol for Anonymous Wireless Roaming with 
PFS
Yuan Wang (University of Science and Technology of China, P.R. China); Duncan S. Wong 
(City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Liusheng Huang (University of Science and 
Technology of China, P.R. China)
CISS-04: Ad-hoc Network Security
Room: 510 
Chair: Chin-Tser Huang (University of South Carolina, USA)
14:00 Least Squares Disclosure Attack in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks
Yang Qin (Microsoft Corporation, USA); Dijiang Huang (Arizona State University, USA)
14:18 Jamming-Resilient Dynamic Spectrum Access for Cognitive Radio Networks
Hai Su (Illinois Institute of Technology, USA); Qian Wang (Illinois Institute of Technology, 
USA); Kui Ren (Illinois Institute of Technology, USA); Kai Xing (University of Science and 
Technology of China, P.R. China)
14:36 EVSE: An Efficient Vehicle Social Evaluation Scheme with Location Privacy 
Preservation for Vehicular Communications
Abdulelah Alganas (UOIT, Canada); Xiaodong Lin (University of Ontario Institute of 
Technology, Canada); Ali Grami (University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada)
14:54 EDJam: Effective Dynamic Jamming Against IEEE 802.15.4-Compliant Wireless 
Personal Area Networks
Guobin Liu (The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, P.R. China); Jiaqing Luo (The Hong 
Kong Polytechnic University, P.R. China); Qingjun Xiao (The Hong Kong Polytechnic 
University, Hong Kong); Bin Xiao (The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong)
15:12 Certificateless Secure Upload for Drive-thru Internet
Jun Song (University of Victoria, Canada); Yanyan Zhuang (University of Victoria, Canada); 
Jianping Pan (University of Victoria, Canada); Lin Cai (University of Victoria, Canada)
CSMA-02: Multimedia QoS provisioning & Multicast
Room: 103 
Chair: Ryoichi Kawahara (NTT Service Integration Laboratories, Japan)
14:00 A Novel Scheme for a Fast Channel Change in Multicast IPTV System
Mounir Sarni (University of Haute Alsace, France); Benoit Hilt (University of Haute Alsace, 
France); Pascal Lorenz (University of Haute Alsace, France)
14:18 Heterogeneous QoS Video Broadcasting with Optimal Joint Layered Video and 
Digital Fountain Coding
Wen Ji (Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R. China); 
Zhu Li (Huawei Technology USA, USA)
14:36 Design and Evaluation of Application-Cooperative Bandwidth On-Demand Network 
with Dynamic Reconfiguration for Gbps-class HDTV Transmission
Yoshihiro Nakajima (NTT Network Innovation Laboratories, Japan); Tetsuo Kawano (NTT, 
Japan); Mitsuru Maruyama (NTT Network Innovation Laboratories, Japan); Akeo Masuda 
(NTT, Japan); Akinori Isogai (NTT, Japan); Kohei Shiomoto (NTT, Japan)
14:54 Controlling Retransmission Rate For Mitigating SIP Overload
Yang Hong (Carleton University, Canada); Changcheng Huang (Carleton University, 
Canada); James Yan (Carleton University, Canada)
頁 9 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Throughput Analysis of Buffer-Constrained Wireless Systems in the Finite Blocklength 
Regime
M. Cenk Gursoy (University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA)
Effective Capacity Analysis for Multi-Rate Relay Channels Exploiting Adaptive 
Cooperative Diversity
Jalil Seifali Harsini (University of Guilan, Iran); Michele Zorzi (University of Padova, Italy)
Max-Min Greedy Interference Alignment on Linear Deterministic K-User Interference 
Channels
Henning Maier (RWTH Aachen University, Germany); Rudolf Mathar (RWTH Aachen 
University, Germany)
Throughput-Optimal Half-Duplex Cooperative Scheme with Partial Decode-Forward 
Relaying
Ahmad Abu Al Haija (McGill University, Canada); Mai Vu (McGill University, Canada)
On the Accuracy of the Wyner Model in Downlink Cellular Networks
Jiaming Xu (The University of Texas at Austin, USA); Jun Zhang (The Hong Kong University 
of Science and Technology, Hong Kong); Jeffrey Andrews (The University of Texas at 
Austin, USA)
Low Complexity MIMO Precoding Codebooks from Orthoplex Packings
Renaud-Alexandre Pitaval (Aalto University, Finland); Olav Tirkkonen (Aalto University, 
Finland); Steven D Blostein (Queen's University, Canada)
On the Diversity and Multiplexing Tradeoff in MIMO Fading Channels With Two-Way 
Training and Power Control
Xiao Juan Zhang (Nanyang Technological University, Singapore); Yi Gong (Nanyang 
Technological University, Singapore)
Non-memoryless Analog Network Coding in Two-Way Relay Channel
Shengli Zhang (Shenzhen University, P.R. China); Soung Chang Liew (The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Qingfeng Zhou (The Hong Kong University of 
Science and Technology, Hong Kong); Lu Lu (The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong); Hui Wang (Shenzhen University, P.R. China)
Optimal Packet Scheduling in a Broadcast Channel with an Energy Harvesting 
Transmitter
Jing Yang (University of Maryland, USA); Omur Ozel (University of Maryland, College Park, 
USA); Sennur Ulukus (University of Maryland, USA)
Clustered Multicell Joint Decoding under Cochannel Interference
Symeon Chatzinotas (University of Luxembourg, Luxemburg); Björn Ottersten (Royal 
Institute of Technology, Sweden)
CQRM-02: QoS and Traffic Control
Room: G 
Chair: Piotr Cholda (AGH University of Science and Technology, Poland)
14:00 Analysis of Network Throughput Dynamics with Viscoelastic Material Model
Hiroshi Yoshida (NEC Corporation, Japan); Kousuke Nogami (NEC Corporation, Japan); 
Kozo Satoda (NEC Corporation, Japan)
14:18 Enhancing Computing Power by Exploiting Underutilized Resources in the 
Community Cloud
Boonyarith Saovapakhiran (North Carolina State University, USA); Michael Devetsikiotis 
(North Carolina State University, USA)
14:36 Algorithm with linear computational complexity for batch scheduling in OBS 
networks
Gustavo Bittencourt Figueiredo (University of Campinas, Brazil); Nelson L. S. da Fonseca 
(State University of Campinas, Brazil)
14:54 Context-Aware Resource Allocation to Improve the Quality of Service of 
Heterogeneous Traffic
Magnus Proebster (Universität Stuttgart, Germany); Matthias Kaschub (Universität Stuttgart, 
Germany); Stefan Valentin (Bell Laboratories, Germany)
15:12 Decentralized Scheduling of Bursty Workload On Computing Grids
Juemin Zhang (Northeastern University, USA); Ningfang Mi (Northeastern University, USA); 
Jianzhe Tai (Northeastern University, USA); Waleed Meleis (Northeastern University, USA)
CQRM-P: Topics on Communications QoS, Reliability and Modeling
Room: Plaza in front of Event Hall 
Chair: Toshinori Tsuboi (Tokyo University of Technology, Japan)
Worst-Case Fair Bin Sort Queuing (WBSQ): An O(1) Worst-Case Fair Scheduler
Zyad Dwekat (North Carolina State University, USA); George N. Rouskas (North Carolina 
State University, USA)
Optimization of OSPF Link Weight to Minimize Worst-Case Network Congestion Against 
Single-Link Failure
Mohammad Kamrul Islam (The University of Electro Communications, Japan); Eiji Oki (The 
University of Electro-Communications, Japan)
Cooperative Regenerating Codes for Distributed Storage Systems
Kenneth W Shum (Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong)
Poor, Good Enough or Even Better? Bridging the Gap between Acceptability and QoE of 
Mobile Broadband Data Services
Raimund Schatz (Telecommunications Research Center Vienna (FTW), Austria); Sebastian 
Egger (Telecommunications Research Center Vienna (FTW), Austria); Alexander Platzer 
(FTW, Austria)
A Virtual Queue Approach to Loss Estimation
Guoqiang Hu (IBM China Research Lab, P.R. China); Yuming Jiang (Norwegian University 
of Science and Technology (NTNU), Norway); Anne K Nevin (Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, Norway)
Competition Analysis of Adaptive Incentive Protocols for P2P Networks
Zheng Wang (China Internet Network Information Center, P.R. China); Shian Shyong Tseng 
(Asia University, Taiwan); Xin Wang (China Internet Network Information Center, P.R. 
China)
頁 11 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
14:36 Order-Extended Sparse RLS Algorithm for Doubly-Selective MIMO Channel 
Estimation
Toshiaki Koike-Akino (MERL, USA); Andreas Molisch (University of Southern California, 
USA); Man-On Pun (Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, USA); Ramesh Annavajjala 
(Mitsubishi Electric Research Labs, USA); Philip Orlik (Mitsubishi Electric, USA)
14:54 Joint Channel Estimation and Multi-user Detection for SDMA OFDM Based on Dual 
Repeated Weighted Boosting Search
Jiankang Zhang (University of Southampton, United Kingdom); Sheng Chen (University of 
Southampton, United Kingdom); Xiaomin Mu (Zhengzhou University, P.R. China); Lajos 
Hanzo (University of Southampton, United Kingdom)
15:12 High Resolution OFDM Channel Estimation with Low Speed ADC using 
Compressive Sensing
Jia Meng (University of Houston, USA); Yingying Li (Rice University and University of 
Houston, USA); Nam Nguyen (University of Houston, USA); Wotao Yin (Rice University, 
USA); Zhu Han (University of Houston, USA)
WCS-05: MIMO I
Room: C-1 
Chair: Gerhard Bauch (Universitaet der Bundeswehr Munich & Institute for Information Processing, 
Germany)
14:00 Analysis of LMS Based Dual Hop MIMO Systems with Beamforming
Yamuna Dhungana (Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand); Nandana Rajatheva (Asian 
Institute of Technology, Thailand)
14:18 Efficient MIMO Detection Based on Eigenspace Search with Complexity Analysis
Ronald Y. Chang (Academia Sinica, Taiwan); Wei-Ho Chung (Academia Sinica, Taiwan); 
Cheng-Yu Hung (Academia Sinica, Taiwan)
14:36 Near-Optimal Large-MIMO Detection Using Randomized MCMC and Randomized 
Search Algorithms
Ashok Kumar (Indian Institute of Science, India); Suresh Chandrasekaran (Indian Institute of 
Science, India); A. Chockalingam (Indian Institute of Science, India); B. Sundar Rajan 
(Indian Institute of Science, India)
14:54 OSTBC Transmission in MIMO AF Relay Systems with Keyhole and Spatial 
Correlation Effects
Trung Q. Duong (Blekinge Institute of Technology, Sweden); Himal A Suraweera (Singapore 
University of Technology and Design, Singapore); Theodoros Tsiftsis (Technological 
Educational Institute of Lamia, Greece); Hans-Jurgen Zepernick (Blekinge Institute of 
Technology, Sweden); Nallanathan Arumugam (King's College London, United Kingdom)
15:12 Low Complexity Turbo Detection of Coded Under-Determined MIMO Systems
Michael Walker (University of Arkansas, USA); Jun Tao (Missouri University of Science and 
Technology, USA); Jingxian Wu (University of Arkansas, USA); Yahong Rosa Zheng 
(Missouri University of Science and Technology, USA)
WCS-06: Relay Systems II
Room: C-2 
Chair: Ha Nguyen (University of Saskatchewan, Canada)
14:00 Linear Precoding for Relay Networks with Finite-Alphabet Constraints
Weiliang Zeng (Tsinghua University, USA); Chengshan Xiao (Missouri University of Science 
and Technology, USA); Mingxi Wang (Missouri University of Science and Technology, 
USA); Jianhua Lu (Tsinghua University, P.R. China)
14:18 Hop-by-hop Beamforming for Dual-hop MIMO AF Relay Networks
Gayan Amarasuriya (University of Alberta, Canada); Chintha Tellambura (University of 
Alberta, Canada); Masoud Ardakani (University of Alberta, Canada)
14:36 New Performance Approximations for Multi-Hop Fixed-gain AF Relay Networks
Gayan Amarasuriya (University of Alberta, Canada); Chintha Tellambura (University of 
Alberta, Canada); Masoud Ardakani (University of Alberta, Canada)
14:54 Power Allocation for Decode-and-Forward Cellular Relay Network with Channel 
Uncertainty
Shankhanaad Mallick (University of British Columbia, Canada); Kundan Kandhway 
(University of British Columbia, Canada); Mohammad Mamunur Rashid (University of British 
Columbia, Canada); Vijay Bhargava (University of British Columbia, Canada)
15:12 Amplify-and-Forward Relay Networks Under Received Power Constraint With 
Imperfect CSI
Alireza S. Behbahani (University of California, Irvine, USA); Ahmed M. Eltawil (University of 
California, Irvine, USA)
WCS-07: Energy Efficient Communications I
Room: D 
Chair: Philippe Mary (European University of Brittany, INSA, IETR, France)
14:00 Power and Discrete Rate Adaptation for Energy Harvesting Wireless Nodes
Parag S Khairnar (Indian Institute of Science, India); Neelesh B. Mehta (Indian Institute of 
Science, India)
14:18 Energy Efficient Resource Allocation in SC-FDMA Uplink with Synchronous HARQ 
Constraints
Dan J Dechene (The University of Western Ontario, Canada); Abdallah Shami (The 
University of Western Ontario, Canada)
14:36 Energy aware evaluation of LTE Hybrid-ARQ and Modulation/Coding Schemes
Jan Dohl (Technische Universität Dresden, Germany); Gerhard Fettweis (Technische 
Universität Dresden, Germany)
14:54 Energy-Efficient Scheduling and Bandwidth-Energy Efficiency Trade-Off with Low 
Load
Stefan Videv (University of Edinburgh, United Kingdom); Harald Haas (The University of 
Edinburgh, United Kingdom)
頁 13 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
15:50 - 17:20
AHSM-05: Scheduling in Wireless Multi-hop Networks
Room: B-2 
Chair: Jerzy Konorski (Gdansk University of Technology, Poland)
15:50 Max-min Fair Scheduling in OFDMA-Based Multi-hop WiMAX Mesh Networks
Shi Bai (North Dakota State University, USA); Weiyi Zhang (AT&T Labs - Research, USA); 
Yang Liu (North Dakota State University, USA); Chonggang Wang (InterDigital 
Communications, USA)
16:08 Experimental Analysis of Backpressure Scheduling in IEEE 802.11 Wireless Mesh 
Networks
Jaeyong Yoo (Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology, Korea); Cigdem Sengul (TU-
Berlin, Germany); Ruben Merz (Deutsche Telekom Laboratories, Germany); JongWon Kim 
(GIST (Gwangju Institute of Science & Technology), Korea)
16:26 Context-aware Scheduling in Wireless Networks with Successive Interference 
Cancellation
Shaohe Lv (National University of Defense Technology, P.R. China); Weihua Zhuang 
(University of Waterloo, Canada); Xiaodong Wang (National University of Defense 
Technology, P.R. China); XingMing Zhou (School of Computer, National University of 
Defense Technology, P.R. China)
16:44 Optimal Scheduling for Roadside WLANs with Pre-Downloaded Messages
Hao Liang (University of Waterloo, Canada); Weihua Zhuang (University of Waterloo, 
Canada)
17:02 SecDCF: An Optimized Cross-layer Scheduling Scheme Based on Physical Layer 
Security
Donglai Sun (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Xudong Wang (Shangai Jiaotong 
University, P.R. China); Yimeng Zhao (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Yue Wu 
(Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China)
AHSM-06: Routing in Wireless Sensor and Mesh Networks
Room: I 
Chair: Baoxian Zhang (Graduate University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R. China)
15:50 Energy Efficient and Fault Tolerant Routing Protocol for Mobile Sensor Network
Lutful Karim (University of Guelph, Canada); Nidal Nasser (University of Guelph, Canada)
16:08 A Distributed Algorithm for Multi-constrained Anypath Routing in Wireless Mesh 
Networks
Xi Fang (Arizona State University, USA); Dejun Yang (Arizona State University, USA); 
Guoliang Xue (Arizona State University, USA)
16:26 An Efficient Data-Driven Routing Protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks with 
Mobile Sinks
Lei Shi (Graduate University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R. China); Baoxian Zhang 
(Graduate University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R. China); Kui Huang 
(Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R. China); Jian Ma (Wuxi SensingNet Industrialization 
Research Institute, P.R. China)
16:44 Optimal Joint Multi-path Routing and Sampling Rates Assignment for Real-Time 
Wireless Sensor Networks
Lei Rao (McGill University, Canada); Xue Liu (University of Nebraska Lincoln, USA); Kyoung
-Don Kang (State University of New York, Binghamton, USA); Wenyu Liu (Huazhong 
University. of Sci. & Tech. Wuhan, P.R. China); Liang Liu (IBM CRL, P.R. China); Ying Chen 
(IBM China Research Lab, P.R. China)
17:02 Distributed Coverage-Preserving Routing Algorithm for Wireless Sensor Networks
Li Jingjing (Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong); Jiannong Cao (Hong Kong 
Polytechnic Univ, Hong Kong); Xuefeng Liu (The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong 
Kong)
CRN-03: MIMO Techniques for Cognitive Radio Networks
Room: H 
Chair: Jinho Choi (Swansea University, United Kingdom)
15:50 An SINR Balancing based Beamforming Technique for Cognitive Radio Networks 
With Mixed Quality of Service Requirements
Yogachandran Rahulamathavan (Loughborough University, United Kingdom); 
Kanapathippillai Cumanan (Loughborough University, United Kingdom); Sangarapillai 
Lambotharan (Loughborough University, United Kingdom)
16:08 Beamforming in Relay-Assisted Cognitive Radio Systems: A Convex Optimization 
Approach
Karama Hamdi (Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong); Keyvan 
Zarifi (University of Quebec, INRS-EMT, Canada); Khaled Ben Letaief (Hong Kong 
University of Science & Technology, Hong Kong); Ali Ghrayeb (Concordia University, 
Canada)
16:26 Per-subcarrier Antenna Selection for OFDMA-based Cognitive Radio Systems
Mohammud Z Bocus (University of Bristol, United Kingdom); Justin Coon (Toshiba TRL, 
United Kingdom); Nishan Canagarajah (University of Bristol, United Kingdom); Joe 
McGeehan (University of Bristol, United Kingdom); Simon Armour (University of Bristol, 
United Kingdom); Angela Doufexi (University of Bristol, United Kingdom)
16:44 Hardware and Physical Layer Adaptation for a Power Constrained MIMO OFDM 
System
Wesam R. Gabran (University of California, Los Angeles, USA); Babak Daneshrad 
(University of California, Los Angeles, USA)
17:02 Cooperative Beamforming Aided Incremental Relaying in Cognitive Radios
頁 15 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
16:08 Capacity Bounds and Lattice Coding for the Star Relay Network
Hamidreza Ebrahimzadeh Saffar (University of Waterloo, Canada); Patrick Mitran 
(University of Waterloo, Canada)
16:26 On the Capacity of Quantized Gaussian MAC Channels with Finite Input Alphabet
Suresh Chandrasekaran (Indian Institute of Science, India); Saif Khan Mohammed 
(Linkoping University, Sweden); A. Chockalingam (Indian Institute of Science, India)
16:44 Achievable Rate Regions for Discrete Memoryless Interference Channel with State 
Information
Lili Zhang (Texas A&M University, USA); Jinhua Jiang (Stanford University, USA); 
Shuguang Cui (Texas A&M University, USA)
17:02 Capacity Bounds for Backhaul-Supported Wireless Multicast Relay Networks with 
Cross-Links
Jinfeng Du (KTH - Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden); Ming Xiao (Royal Institute of 
Technology, Sweden); Mikael Skoglund (Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden)
CQRM-03: Quality and Performance in Wireless and Mobile Networks
Room: G 
Chair: Tutomu Murase (NEC Corporation, Japan)
15:50 Energy-Efficiency Evaluation of a Medium Access Control Protocol for Cooperative 
ARQ
Jesus Alonso-Zarate (Centre Tecnologic de Telecomunicacions de Catalunya - CTTC, 
Spain); Eirini Stavrou (University of Western Macedonia, Greece); Adamantia Stamou 
(University of Western Macedonia, Greece); Pantelis Angelidis (University of Western 
Macedonia, Greece); Luis Alonso (Universidad Politecnica de Catalunya, Spain); Christos 
Verikoukis (Telecommunications Technological Centre of Catalonia, Spain)
16:08 Network Coding-based Cooperative ARQ Scheme
Angelos Antonopoulos (Telecommunications Technological Centre of Catalonia (CTTC), 
Spain); Christos Verikoukis (Telecommunications Technological Centre of Catalonia, Spain)
16:26 Congestion Control in Wireless Flow-Aware Networks
Jerzy Domzal (AGH University of Science and Technology, Poland); Nirwan Ansari (NJIT, 
USA); Andrzej Jajszczyk (AGH University of Science and Technology, Poland)
16:44 Robust Cross-layer Design with Reinforcement Learning for IEEE 802.11n Link 
Adaptation
Kaijie Zhou (SANYO Electric Co., Ltd., Japan)
17:02 Performance and Fairness Analysis of a QoS Supportive MAC Protocol for 
Wireless LANs
Thomas Lagkas (University of Western Macedonia, Kozani, Greece); Periklis Chatzimisios 
(Alexander TEI of Thessaloniki, Greece)
NGNI-03: Network Robustness & Survivability I
Room: F 
Chair: Ying Zhang (Ericsson Research, USA)
15:50 Non-Weighted Interface Specific Routing for Load-Balanced Fast Local Protection 
in IP Networks
Steven S. W. Lee (National Chung Cheng University, Taiwan); Po-Kai Tseng (Academia 
Sinica, Taiwan); Alice Chen (ITRI, Taiwan); Cheng-Shong Wu (National Chung-Cheng 
University, Taiwan)
16:08 Stability Analysis and Evaluation of the IntelRate Controller for High-Speed 
Heterogeneous Networks
Jungang Liu (University of Ottawa, Canada); Oliver Yang (University of Ottawa, Canada)
16:26 Predictable Reliability and Packet Loss Domain Separation for IP Media Delivery
Manuel Gorius (Saarland University, Germany); Jochen Miroll (Saarland University, 
Germany); Michael Karl (Saarland University, Germany); Thorsten Herfet (Saarland 
University, Germany)
16:44 Cost Efficient Design of Survivable Virtual Infrastructure to Recover from Facility 
Node Failures
Hong-Fang Yu (University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, P.R. China); 
Vishal Anand (State University of New York at Brockport, USA); Chunming Qiao (State 
University of New York at Buffalo, USA); Gang Sun (University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, P.R. China)
17:02 Achieving Resilient Routing through Redistributing Routing Protocols
Feng Wang (Liberty University, USA); Zhan-Zhen Wei (Beijing Electronic Science and 
Technology Institute, P.R. China)
ONS-03: Network Design and Control II
Room: 554 
Chair: Dominic A. Schupke (Nokia Siemens Networks & NSN Research, Germany)
15:50 The BVID Allocation Problem in 802.1Qay Provider Backbone Bridged Traffic 
Engineered Networks
Deval Bhamare (IIT Bombay, India); Ashutosh Upadhyaya (IIT Bombay, India); Ashwin 
Kshirasagar (Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, India); Saurabh Mehta (Indian Institute 
of Technology, Bombay, India); Ashwin A Gumaste (Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, 
India)
16:08 A Branch, Price and Cut approach for optimal traffic grooming in WDM optical 
networks
Quazi R Rahman (University of Windsor, Canada); Subir Bandyopadhyay (University of 
Windsor, Canada); Yash Aneja (University of Windsor, Canada)
16:26 Design and Performance Analysis of an Integrated Traffic Control Scheme for an 
Optical Packet-Switched Metro WDM Ring Network
I-Fen Chao (Yuan Ze University, Taiwan); Maria C. Yuang (National Chiao Tung University, 
Taiwan)
頁 17 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
WCS-10: Heterogeneous and Femtocell networks
Room: C-2 
Chair: Alagan Anpalagan (Ryerson University, Canada)
15:50 Analysis of UE Outage Probability and Macrocellular Traffic Offloading for WCDMA 
Macro Network with Femto Overlay under Closed and Open Access
Sayandev Mukherjee (DOCOMO Communications Laboratories USA, Inc., USA)
16:08 Outage Probability Analysis for Collocated Spectrum-Sharing Macrocell and 
Femtocells
Xiaoli Chu (King's College London, United Kingdom); Joyce Wu (WTS, United Kingdom); 
Haibo Wang (Beijing Jiaotong University, P.R. China)
16:26 Cognitive Interference Management in Heterogeneous Femto-Macro Cell Networks
Sunil K (CeWit, India); Rajet Krishnan (Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden); 
Sheetal Kalyani (Centre of Excellence in Wireless Technology, India); Bhaskar Ramamurthi 
(Indian Institute of Technology, India); Nadeem Akhtar (University of Surrey, United 
Kingdom)
16:44 Downlink Femtocell Networks: Open or Closed?
Hanshin Jo (UT Austin, USA); Ping Xia (University of Texas at Austin, USA); Jeffrey 
Andrews (The University of Texas at Austin, USA)
17:02 Analysis of Uplink Inter-Carrier-Interference Observed at Femtocell Networks
Alphan Sahin (University of South Florida, USA); Ismail Guvenc (DOCOMO USA Labs, 
USA); Huseyin Arslan (University of South Florida, USA)
WCS-11: Game Theory
Room: D 
Chair: Riichi Kudo (NTT Corporation, Japan) 
15:50 Game-Theoretic CDMA Power Control for Code Acquisition during Network 
Association
Giacomo Bacci (University of Pisa, Italy); Marco Luise (University of Pisa, Italy)
16:08 Fair and Efficient Resource Sharing for Selfish Cooperative Communication 
Networks Using Cooperative Game Theory
Guopeng Zhang (China University of Mining and Technology, P.R. China); Cong Li (Xidian 
University, P.R. China); Ding Enjie (China University of Mining and Technology, P.R. China); 
Kun Yang (University of Essex, United Kingdom); Xiaodong Yang (China University of 
Mining and Technology, P.R. China)
16:26 Feedback Control Game for Channel State Information in Wireless Networks
Lingyang Song (Peking University, P.R. China); Zhu Han (University of Houston, USA); 
Qihao Li (Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Bingli Jiao 
(Peking University, P.R. China)
16:44 Evolution Game Theoretic Optimization of Realistic Cooperative Networks using 
Power Control with Imperfect Feedback
Weisi Guo (Swansea University, United Kingdom); Ian James Wassell (University of 
Cambridge, United Kingdom); Rolando Carrasco (University of Newcastle, United Kingdom)
17:02 Stackelberg Game on the Boundary of Coexistence
Kandasamy Illanko (Ryerson University, Canada); Alagan Anpalagan (Ryerson University, 
Canada); Dimitri Androutsos (Ryerson University, Canada)
WCS-12: Coding I
Room: E 
Chair: Inkyu Lee (Korea University, Korea)
15:50 Near-Capacity Irregular Convolutional Coded Cooperative Differential Linear 
Dispersion Codes Using Multiple-Symbol Differential Decoding Aided Non-coherent 
Detection
Chao Xu (University of Southampton, United Kingdom); Soon Xin Ng (University of 
Southampton, United Kingdom); Lajos Hanzo (University of Southampton, United Kingdom)
16:08 On the Concatenation of Non-Binary Random Linear Fountain Codes with 
Maximum Distance Separable Codes
Francisco Lazaro Blasco (German Aerospace Center (DLR), Germany); Gianluigi Liva (DLR 
(German Aerospace Center), Germany)
16:26 Closed-loop Space Time Block Coding for High Data Rate with Angle Feedback
Joonsuk Kim (Broadcom Corp, USA); Sirikiat Lek Ariyavistakul (Broadcom, USA); Nambi 
Seshadri (Broadcom, USA)
16:44 Design of Distributed Multi-Edge Type LDPC Codes for Two-Way Relay Channels
Marwan Hadri Azmi (University of New South Wales, Australia); Jun Li (University of New 
South Wales, Australia); Jinhong Yuan (University of New South Wales, Australia); Robert 
Malaney (University of New South Wales, Australia)
17:02 Ant-Colony Based Near-ML Block Decoder in Asynchronous Cooperative MIMO 
systems using a linear dispersion structure
Xu Chong (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, USA); Hamid 
Gharavi (NIST, USA)
WNS-05: 802.11 Wireless Networks
Room: J 
Chair: Ruonan Zhang (Northwestern Polytechnical University, P.R. China)
15:50 Performance Analysis of the Binary Exponential Backoff Algorithm for IEEE 802.11 
Based Mobile Ad Hoc Networks
Yi-hua Zhu (Zhejiang University of Technology, P.R. China); Xian-zhong Tian (Zhejiang 
University of Technology, P.R. China); Jun Zheng (Southeast University, P.R. China)
16:08 Analysis of Jamming effects on IEEE 802.11 Wireless Networks
頁 19 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Athanasios Vasilakos (University of Western Macedonia, Greece); Liang Zhou (Technical 
University of Munich, Germany)
11:08 Classification of Packet Transmission Outcomes in Wireless Sensor Networks
Zhi Ang Eu (National University of Singapore, Singapore); Pius Lee (Institute for Infocomm 
Research, Singapore); Hwee Pink Tan (Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore)
11:26 Network-Leading Association Scheme in IEEE 802.11 Wireless Mesh Networks
Pin Lv (National University of Defense Technology, P.R. China); Xudong Wang (Teranovi 
Technologies, Inc., USA); Xu Ming (National University of Defense Technology, P.R. China); 
Yingwen Chen (School of Computer, National University of Defense Technology, P.R. 
China)
11:44 Relative Link Quality Assessment and Hybrid Routing Scheme for Wireless Mesh 
Networks
ChaoYi Bian (Peking University, P.R. China); Xin Jin (Peking University, P.R. China); Chao 
Liu (Peking University, P.R. China); Xiaoming Li (Peking University, P.R. China); Wei Yan 
(Peking University, P.R. China)
12:02 Joint Revenue-based Call Admission Control and Routing in Wireless Mesh 
Networks
Nika Naghavi (King's College London, United Kingdom); Vasilis Friderikos (King's College 
London, United Kingdom); Hamid Aghvami (King's College London, United Kingdom)
AHSM-P1: Topics I on Adhoc, Sensor and Mesh Networking
Room: Plaza in front of Event Hall 
Chair: Joao Barros (University of Porto & Instituto de Telecomunicações, Portugal)
Cooperative Game Strategy for IEEE 802.11s Mesh WLAN Power Management
Mohamed Esam Eldin (German University in Cairo, Egypt); Mohamed Ashour (GUC, Egypt)
Energy-Aware Transmission Control for Wireless Sensor Networks Powered by Ambient 
Energy Harvesting: A Game-Theoretic Approach
Fu-Yun Tsuo (National Taiwan University, Taiwan); Hwee Pink Tan (Institute for Infocomm 
Research, Singapore); Yong Huat Chew (Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore); 
Hung-Yu Wei (National Taiwan University, Taiwan)
Dynamic and Scalable Routing to Perform Efficient Data Aggregation in WSNs
Leandro Aparecido Villas (UFMG, Brazil); Daniel L. Guidoni (Federal University of Minas 
Gerais, Brazil); Azzedine Boukerche (University of Ottawa, Canada); Regina Borges de 
Araujo (Federal University of Sao Carlos, Brazil); Antonio A.F. Loureiro (Federal University 
of Minas Gerais, Brazil)
Increasing the Lifetime of Roadside Sensor Networks using Edge-Betweenness 
Clustering
Joakim Flathagen (Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Norway); 
Ovidiu Valentin Drugan (University of Oslo, Norway); Paal E. Engelstad (University of Oslo / 
Telenor GBD&R / Simula Research Laboratory, Norway); Oivind Kure (NTNU, Norway)
CC_SCR: A Compression Cluster-based scheme in a Spatial Correlated Region for 
Wireless Sensor Networks
Sofiane Moad (Université Rennes1, France); Mario Rivero (Instituto Politecnico Nacional, 
Mexico); Nizar Bouabdallah (INRIA, France); Rami Langar (UPMC - University of Paris 6, 
France)
Mobility-Robust Tree Construction in Zigbee Wireless Networks
Wei-Ho Chung (Academia Sinica, Taiwan); Pi-Cheng Hsiu (Academia Sinica, Taiwan); Yuan
-Yao Shih (National Taiwan University, Taiwan); Ai-Chun Pang (National Taiwan University, 
Taiwan); Yu-Kai Huang (Quanta Research Institute, Taiwan); Kuan-Chang Hung (National 
Taiwan University, Taiwan)
Placing Optimal Number of Sinks in Sensor Networks for Network Lifetime Maximization
Xu Xu (The Australian National University, Australia); Weifa Liang (Australian National 
University, Australia)
Performance of Highly Mobile Cognitive Radio Networks with Directional Antennas
Robert Murawski (Ohio State University, USA); Eylem Ekici (The Ohio State University, 
USA); Vasu Devan Chakravarthy (Air Force Research Laboratory, USA); William McQuay 
(AFRL/IFSD, USA)
A False Data Filtering Scheme Using Cluster-Based Organization in Sensor Networks
Zhixiong Liu (Central South University of China, P.R. China); Jianxin Wang (Central South 
University, P.R. China); Xi Zhang (Texas A&M University, ECE Department, USA)
A Secure Distributed Transport Protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks
Levente Buttyan (Budapest University of Technology and Economics, Hungary); Antonio M. 
Grilo (INESC/IST, Portugal)
Hybrid TW-TOA/TDOA Positioning Algorithms for Cooperative Wireless Networks
Mohammad Reza Gholami (Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden); Sinan Gezici 
(Bilkent University, Turkey); Erik G Ström (Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden); 
Mats Rydström (Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden)
CRN-04: Cognitive Radios in Cellular Networks
Room: H 
Chair: Ismail Guvenc (DOCOMO USA Labs, USA)
10:50 Cognitive Network Interference - Modeling and Applications
Alberto Rabbachin (Joint Research Centre, European Commission, Italy); Tony Q. S. Quek 
(Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore); Hyundong Shin (Kyung Hee University, 
Korea); Moe Win (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA)
11:08 Decentralized Cross-Tier Interference Mitigation in Cognitive Femtocell Networks
Mehdi Bennis (Centre of Wireless Communications, University of Oulu, Finland); Samir 
Medina Perlaza (LSS, France)
11:26 Distributed Power Control for Spectrum-Sharing Femtocell Networks Using 
Stackelberg Game
Xin Kang (National University of Singapore, Singapore); Ying-Chang Liang (Institute for 
Infocomm Research, Singapore); Hari Krishna Garg (National University of Singapore, 
Singapore)
11:44 Throughput Analysis of a Cognitive IEEE 802.11 WLAN Sharing the Downlink Band 
of a Cellular Network
頁 21 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Nobuharu Kami (NEC Corporation, Japan); Teruyuki Baba (NEC Corporation, Japan); 
Takashi Yoshikawa (NEC Corporation, Japan); Hiroyuki Morikawa (The University of Tokyo, 
Japan)
11:26 Embedding Software Requirements in Grid Scheduling
Daniel M. Batista (State University of Campinas, Brazil); Cesar G Chaves (State University 
of Campinas, Brazil); Nelson L. S. da Fonseca (State University of Campinas, Brazil)
11:44 0 to 10k in 20 seconds: Bootstrapping Large-scale DHT networks
Jae Woo Lee (Columbia University, USA); Henning Schulzrinne (Columbia University, USA); 
Wolfgang Kellerer (DOCOMO Communications Laboratories Europe, Germany); Zoran 
Despotovic (DOCOMO Communications Laboratories Europe, Germany)
12:02 Leveraging caching for Internet-scale content-based publish/subscribe networks
Mohamed Diallo (UPMC Sorbonne Universités, France); Serge Fdida (UPMC Sorbonne 
Universités, France); Vasilis Sourlas (University of Thessaly, Greece); Paris Flegkas 
(University of Thessaly, Greece); Leandros Tassiulas (University of Thessaly, Greece)
CTS-04: Joint Source/Channel Coding
Room: 501 
Chair: Markku Juntti (University of Oulu, Finland)
10:50 Comparison between Analog Joint Source-Channel Coded and Digital BICM 
Systems
Óscar Fresnedo (University of A Coruña, Spain); Francisco J. Vazquez-Araujo (University of 
A Coruña, Spain); Miguel González-López (Universidad de A Corun~a, Spain); Luis 
Castedo (University of A Coruña, Spain); Javier Garcia-Frias (University of Delaware, USA)
11:08 Expected Distortion with Fading Channel and Side Information Quality
Iñaki Estella Aguerri (Centre Tecnològic de la Comunicació de Catalunya (CTTC), Spain); 
Deniz Gunduz (CTTC, Spain)
11:26 Sending Gaussian Source on Bandwidth-Mismatched Gaussian Channel With 
Improved Robustness
Chao Tian (AT&T Labs - Research, USA); Shlomo Shamai (The Technion, Israel)
11:44 Delay-Free Joint Source-Channel Coding for Gaussian Network of Multiple Sensors
Anna N. Kim (Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Norway); Pa*l Anders Floor 
(Oslo University Hospital, Norway); Tor A. Ramstad (Norwegian University of Science and 
Technology, Norway); Ilangko Balasingham (Norwegian University of Science & 
Technology, Norway)
12:02 Lattice-based source-channel coding in wireless sensor networks
Johannes Kron (Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden); Mikael Skoglund (Royal Institute of 
Technology, Sweden)
CTS-05: Multiuser MIMO
Room: 509 
Chair: Angel Lozano (Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Spain)
10:50 Improved Interference Alignment Precoding for the MIMO X Channel
Adrian Agustin (Technical University of Catalonia (UPC), Spain); Josep Vidal (Universitat 
Politècnica de Catalunya, Spain)
11:08 Multiuser Zero-Forcing Beamforming with Limited Feedback in Wireless Ad Hoc 
Networks
Marios Kountouris (Supélec, France); Jeffrey Andrews (The University of Texas at Austin, 
USA)
11:26 Downlink Beamforming with Transmit-side Channel Correlation: A Large System 
Analysis
Rusdha Muharar (University of Melbourne, Australia); Jamie Evans (University of 
Melbourne, Australia)
11:44 Achievable Rate Region Characterization of the MIMO Broadcast Channel with 
Channel Distribution Information
Yongpeng Wu (Southeast University, P.R. China); Shi Jin (Southeast University, P.R. 
China); Xiqi Gao (Southest University, P.R. China); Chengshan Xiao (Missouri University of 
Science and Technology, USA); Matthew R McKay (Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, Hong Kong)
12:02 Deterministic Equivalent for the SINR of Regularized Zero-forcing Precoding in 
Correlated MISO Broadcast Channels with Imperfect CSIT
Sebastian Wagner (Eurecom, France); Romain Couillet (Supélec, France); Mérouane 
Debbah (Supelec, France); Dirk Slock (Eurecom, France)
CQRM-04: Quality in Multimedia Networks
Room: G 
Chair: Katsunori Yamaoka (Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan)
10:50 Self-Prioritization of Audio and Video Traffic
Luca Muscariello (Orange Labs - France Telecom, France); Thomas Bonald (Telecom 
ParisTech, France); Norberto Ostallo (Eurecom, France)
11:08 QoE-based cross-layer optimization of wireless video with unperceivable temporal 
video quality fluctuation
Srisakul Thakolsri (DoCoMo Euro-Labs, Germany); Wolfgang Kellerer (DOCOMO 
Communications Laboratories Europe, Germany); Eckehard Steinbach (Munich University 
of Technology, Germany)
11:26 Understanding Cross-Layer Effects on Quality of Experience for Video over NGMN
Muhammad Amir Mehmood (TU Berlin/Deutsche Telekom Laboratories, Germany); Cigdem 
Sengul (TU-Berlin, Germany); Nadi Sarrar (TU Berlin, Germany); Anja Feldmann (TU-Berlin, 
Germany)
11:44 Parity Stream Construction Method Based on Estimated Utility for Multi-Server 
Video Streaming System
頁 23 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
SAC EH-01: eHealth Technologies
Room: 104 
Chairs: Isao Nakajima (Tokai University School of Medicine, Japan), Agoulmine Nazim (University of 
Evry Val d'Essonne, France)
10:50 Cooperative Mobile High-Speed and Personal Area Networks for the Provision of 
Pervasive E-Health Services
Dimitris Komnakos (National Technical University of Athens, Greece); Demosthenes 
Vouyioukas (University of the Aegean, Greece); Ilias Maglogiannis (University of Central 
Greece, Greece); Harry Skianis (University of the Aegean, Greece)
11:08 Robust Transmission Scheduling and Power Control for Dynamic Wireless Access 
in a Hospital Environment
Ekram Hossain (University of Manitoba, Canada); Dusit Niyato (Nanyang Technological 
University, Singapore); Phond Phunchongharn (University of Manitoba and TRLabs, 
Canada); Sergio Camorlinga (TRLabs, Winnipeg, Canada, and University of Manitoba, 
Canada)
11:26 A SOA Service Governance Approach to u-Healthcare System with Mobility 
Capability
Weider D. Yu (San Jose State University, USA); Ashish Joshi (San Jose State University, 
USA); Jatin Patel (San Jose State University, USA); Vishal Mehta (San Jose State 
University, USA)
11:44 Channel modeling of UWB-Based Wireless Body Area Networks
Xinlei Chen (University of Tsinghua, P.R. China); XiYu Lu (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); 
Depeng Jin (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Li Su (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); 
Lieguang Zeng (Tsinghua University, P.R. China)
12:02 Patient Relationship Management in public healthcare settings
Tomé Vardasca (Ci2 - Centro de Investigação e Criatividade em Informática, HFF, 
Portugal); Henrique Martins (Ci2 - Centro de Investigação e Criatividade em Informática, 
HFF, Portugal)
SPC-04: Decoding-Detection
Room: 555 
Chair: Jinho Choi (Swansea University, United Kingdom)
10:50 Efficient Tree-Search MIMO Detection with Probabilistic Node Ordering
Ronald Y. Chang (Academia Sinica, Taiwan); Wei-Ho Chung (Academia Sinica, Taiwan)
11:08 Near Optimum Multiuser Detection with Closest Lattice Point Search
Byonghyo Shim (Korea University, Korea); Insung Kang (Qualcomm Inc., USA)
11:26 Efficient iterative decoding of serially concatenated multiplexed Alamouti codes
Sudharshan Srinivasan (University of South Australia, Australia); Linda M. Davis (University 
of South Australia, Australia)
11:44 A Complexity-Efficient Sphere Decoder for MIMO Systems
Shuangshuang Han (University of Alberta, Canada); Chintha Tellambura (University of 
Alberta, Canada)
12:02 A Novel Non-Parametric Iterative Soft Bit Error Rate Estimation Technique for 
Digital Communications Systems
Samir Saoudi (Telecom-Bretagne, France); Tarik Ait-Idir (INPT, Morocco); Yukou Mochida 
(Orange Labs, Japan)
WCS-13: OFDM II
Room: C-1 
Chair: Liming Zheng (Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan)
10:50 Continuous Physical Layer Authentication Using a Novel Adaptive OFDM System
Xianbin Wang (University of Western Ontario, Canada); Fiona Liu (University of Western 
Ontario, Canada); Dian Fan (University of Western Ontario, Canada); Helen Tang (DRDC 
Ottawa, Canada); Peter C Mason (Defence Research & Development Canada, Canada)
11:08 CFO Compensation for Uplink OFDMA Systems with Conjugated Gradient
Kilbom Lee (Korea University, Korea); Inkyu Lee (Korea University, Korea)
11:26 Combined PA/NPA CFO Recovery for FBMC Transmissions over Doubly-Selective 
Fading Channels
Giulio Dainelli (University of Pisa, Italy); Vincenzo Lottici (University of Pisa, Italy); Marco 
Moretti (Università di Pisa, Italy); Ruggero Reggiannini (University of Pisa, Italy)
11:44 Optimal Threshold Design for FFR Schemes in Multi-Cell OFDMA Networks
Zhikun Xu (Beihang University, P.R. China); Geoffrey Li (Georgia Tech, USA); Chenyang 
Yang (Beihang University, P.R. China)
12:02 Reduced-Rate OFDM Transmission with Statistics-based ICI Mitigation
Jun Ma (Georgia Institute of Technology, USA); Philip Orlik (Mitsubishi Electric, USA); 
Jinyun Zhang (MERL, USA); Geoffrey Li (Georgia Tech, USA)
WCS-14: Relay Systems III
Room: C-2 
Chair: Iickho Song (KAIST, Korea)
10:50 Packet Transmission Experiments of STBC-based Multi-hop Cooperative Relaying
Tomohiko Mimura (Kyoto University, Japan); Akihiro Kuwabara (Kyoto University, Japan); 
Hidekazu Murata (Kyoto University, Japan); Koji Yamamoto (Kyoto University, Japan); 
Susumu Yoshida (Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, Japan)
11:08 Fixed Gain Amplify-and-Forward Relaying with Co-Channel Interference
Himal A Suraweera (Singapore University of Technology and Design, Singapore); Diomidis 
S. Michalopoulos (University of British Columbia, Canada); Robert Schober (University of 
British Columbia, Canada); George K. Karagiannidis (Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 
Greece); Nallanathan Arumugam (King's College London, United Kingdom)
11:26 Throughput Analysis in Asymmetric Two-way Relay Channel with Random Access
頁 25 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Jalaluddin Qureshi (Nanyang Technological University, Singapore); Jianfei Cai (Nanyang 
Technological University, Singapore); Chuan Heng Foh (Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore)
WNS-08: Femtocell Wireless Networks
Room: K 
Chair: Nidal Nasser (University of Guelph, Canada)
10:50 FCRA: Femtocell Cluster-based Resource Allocation Scheme for OFDMA Networks
Abbas Antoun Hatoum (UPMC, France); Nadjib Ait Saadi (INRIA, France); Rami Langar 
(UPMC - University of Paris 6, France); Raouf Boutaba (University of Waterloo, Canada); 
Guy Pujolle (University Pierre et Marie Curie - Paris 6, France)
11:08 An Efficient Method for Performance Evaluation of Femto-Macro Overlay Systems
Yue-Cai Huang (City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); King-Tim Ko (City University of 
Hong Kong, P.R. China); Qian Huang (The University of Melbourne, Australia); Villy Baek 
Iversen (Technical University of Denmark, Denmark); Moshe Zukerman (City University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong)
11:26 Optimal Pricing and Spectrum Allocation for Wireless Service Provider on 
Femtocell Deployment
Yanjiao Chen (Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, P.R. China); Jin Zhang 
(Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, P.R. China); Peng Lin (HKUST, Hong 
Kong); Qian Zhang (Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong)
11:44 Dynamic Inter-Cell Interference Avoidance in Self-Organizing Femtocell Networks
Sangkyu Park (Seoul National University, Korea); Saewoong Bahk (Seoul National 
University, Korea)
12:02 Game Theoretical Model and Existence of Win-Win Situation for Femtocell 
Networks
Jia-Shi Lin (National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan); Kai-Ten Feng (National Chiao Tung 
University, Taiwan)
14:00 - 15:30
AHSM-09: Broadcast and Multicast in Wireless Multi-hop Networks
Room: B-2 
Chair: Anura Jayasumana (Colorado State University, USA)
14:00 A Novel Multicast Gateway Based Multi-hop Routing for Wireless Mesh Networks
Ahmed Y Al-Dubai (Napier University, United Kingdom); Liang Zhao (Napier University, 
United Kingdom); Albert Zomaya (University of Sydney, Australia); Geyong Min (University 
of Bradford, United Kingdom)
14:18 Hierarchical Agent-Based Secure Multicast for Wireless Mesh Networks
Yinan Li (Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, USA); Ing-Ray Chen (Virginia 
Tech, USA)
14:36 Scalable and Energy-Efficient Broadcasting in Multihop Cluster-Based Wireless 
Sensor Networks
Long Cheng (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Sajal K. Das 
(University of Texas at Arlington, USA); Mario Di Francesco (University of Texas at 
Arlington, USA); Canfeng Chen (Nokia Research Center, P.R. China); Jian Ma (Wuxi 
SensingNet Industrialization Research Institute, P.R. China)
14:54 Degree Distribution in Interference-limited Heterogeneous Wireless Networks and 
Its Generalizations
Weng Chon Ao (National Taiwan University, Taiwan); Kwang-Cheng Chen (National Taiwan 
University, Taiwan)
15:12 An Adaptive Probability Broadcast-based Data Preservation Protocol in Wireless 
Sensor Networks
Junbin Liang (Central South University of China, P.R. China); Jianxin Wang (Central South 
University, P.R. China); Xi Zhang (Texas A&M University, ECE Department, USA); Jianer 
Chen (Texas A&M University, USA)
AHSM-10: Connectivity in Wireless Networks
Room: I 
Chair: Susana Sargento (Instituto de Telecomunicações, Universidade de Aveiro, Portugal)
14:00 Connectivity of Wireless CSMA Multi-hop Networks
Tao Yang (University of Sydney, Australia); Guoqiang Mao (The University of Sydney, 
Australia); Wei Zhang (University of New South Wales, Australia)
14:18 On The k-hop Partial Connectivity in Finite Wireless Multi-hop Networks
Zijie Zhang (University of Sydney, Australia); Seh Chun Ng (University of Sydney, Australia); 
Guoqiang Mao (The University of Sydney, Australia); Brian Anderson (Australian National 
University, Australia)
14:36 Improving the Connectivity of Heterogeneous Multi-Hop Wireless Networks
Tae-Hoon Kim (University of Pittsburgh, USA); David Tipper (University of Pittsburgh, USA); 
Prashant Krishnamurthy (University of Pittsburgh, USA)
14:54 Connectivity Restorability of Mobile Ad hoc Sensor Network based on K-hop 
Neighbor Information
Zhenqiang Mi (University of Science and Technology Beijing, P.R. China); Yang Yang 
(University of Science and Technology, P.R. China)
15:12 On the User-centric Connection Availability of Mobile Wireless Networks
Fei Xing (Cisco Systems, USA); Wenye Wang (NC State University, USA)
CRN-05: Resource Allocation and Opportunistic Access II
Room: H 
Chair: Sayandev Mukherjee (DOCOMO Communications Laboratories USA, Inc., USA)
頁 27 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Takayuki Nozaki (Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan); Kenta Kasai (Tokyo Institute of 
Technology, Japan); Kohichi Sakaniwa (Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan)
15:12 Iterative Decoding of LDPC-Coded BDPSK with New LLR Metric over the 
Noncoherent Channel
Jianwen Zhang (National University of Singapore, Singapore); Pooi-Yuen Kam (National 
University of Singapore, Singapore)
CTS-07: Cellular Networks
Room: 509 
Chair: Marios Kountouris (Supélec, France)
14:00 A New Way of Computing Rate in Cellular Networks
Radha Krishna Ganti (University of Texas at Austin, USA); Francois Baccelli (INRIA-ENS, 
France); Jeffrey Andrews (The University of Texas at Austin, USA)
14:18 Interference Strength Alignment and Uplink Channel Allocation in Linear Cellular 
Networks
Yue Zhao (UCLA, USA); Gregory Pottie (University of California at Los Angeles, USA)
14:36 Cooperative Wireless Multicell OFDMA Network with Backhaul Capacity 
Constraints
Aakanksha Chowdhery (Stanford University, USA); Wei Yu (University of Toronto, Canada); 
John Cioffi (Stanford University, USA)
14:54 Distributed Beam Scheduling in Multi-cell Networks via Auction over Competitive 
Markets
Kai Yang (Bell Labs Alcatel Lucent, USA); Doru Calin (Bell Labs, Alcatel-Lucent, USA); 
Chan-Byoung Chae (Yonsei University, USA); Simon Yiu (Bell Labs, Alcatel-Lucent, USA)
15:12 Impact of Delayed Limited Feedback on the Sum-Rate of Intercell Interference 
Nulling
Ramya Bhagavatula (University of Texas at Austin, USA); Robert Heath (The University of 
Texas at Austin, USA)
CQRM-05: Traffic Modeling and Measuring
Room: G 
Chair: Sabine Wittevrongel (Ghent University, Belgium)
14:00 Measurements and Analysis of an Unconstrained User Generated Content System
Tianlong Yu (Huazhong University of Science and Technology, P.R. China); Chen Tian 
(Huazhong University of Science and Technology, P.R. China); Hongbo Jiang (Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, P.R. China); Wenyu Liu (Huazhong University. of 
Sci. & Tech. Wuhan, P.R. China)
14:18 Internet Traffic Classification Using LPC Cepstrum
Masatsugu Ichino (Waseda University, Japan); Hiroaki Maeda (Waseda University, Japan); 
Kentaro Hoshi (Waseda University, Japan); Naohisa Komatsu (Waseda University, Japan); 
Kei Takeshita (NTT, Japan); Masayuki Tsujino (NTT, Japan); Haruhisa Hasegawa (NTT, 
Japan); Hideaki Yoshino (NTT, Japan)
14:36 A Batched Poisson Multirate Loss Model Supporting Elastic Traffic Under the 
Bandwidth Reservation Policy
Ioannis Moscholios (University of Peloponnese, Greece); John S Vardakas (University of 
Patras, Greece); Michael D. Logothetis (University of Patras, Greece); Anthony 
Boucouvalas (University of Peloponnese, Greece)
14:54 10-Gbps IP Network Measurement System Based on Application-generated 
Packets Using Hardware Assistance and Off-the-shelf PC
Kenji Shimizu (NTT Network Innovation Laboratories, Japan); Katsuhiro Sebayashi (Nippon 
Telegraph and Telephone Corp., Japan); Seiki Kuwabara (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone 
Corp., Japan); Mitsuru Maruyama (NTT Network Innovation Laboratories, Japan)
15:12 An Internet Traffic Classification Method Based on Semi-Supervised Support 
Vector Machine
Xiang Li (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Feng Qi (Beijing 
University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Dan Xu (Beijing University of 
Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Qiu Xue-song (Beijing University of Posts and 
Telecommunications, P.R. China)
NGNI-05: Content Delivery Networks I
Room: F 
Chair: Tutomu Murase (NEC Corporation, Japan)
14:00 On the Optimal Request Routing Strategy in CDN Live Streaming Application
Jianxiong Wan (University of Science and Technologh Beijing, P.R. China); Chuang Lin 
(Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Xin Chen (, P.R. China); Kun Meng (Ph.D , P.R. China)
14:18 An Overlay Architecture of Global Inter-Data Center Networking for Fast Content 
Delivery
Yasuhiro Miyao (NEC Corporation, Japan)
14:36 Optimal Caching with Content Broadcast in Cache-and-Forward Networks
Lijun Dong (Rutgers University, USA); Dan Zhang (WINLAB, Rutgers University, USA); 
Yanyong Zhang (Rutgers University, USA); Dipankar Raychaudhuri (Rutgers University, 
USA)
14:54 Modeling and analysis of sharing ratio enforcement in private BitTorrent 
communities
Adele Lu Jia (Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands); Lucia D'Acunto (Delft 
University of Technology, The Netherlands); Michel Meulpolder (Delft University of 
Technology, The Netherlands); Johan A. Pouwelse (Delft University of Technology, The 
Netherlands)
15:12 Experimental Evaluation of Memory Management in Content-Centric Networking
Giovanna Carofiglio (Bell Labs, Alcatel-Lucent, France); Vinicius Gehlen (Bell Labs, Alcatel-
Lucent, France); Diego Perino (Bell Labs, Alcatel-Lucent, France)
頁 29 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
(Institute of Computing Technology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R. China); Li 
Cui (Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R. China)
15:12 Media-Aware Distributed Scheduling over Wireless Body Sensor Networks
Liang Zhou (Technical University of Munich, Germany); Baoyu Zheng (Nanjing University of 
Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); JingWu Cui (Nanjing University of Posts And 
Telecomm, P.R. China); Benoit Geller (UEI Lab, ENSTA ParisTech, France)
SPC-05: Beamforming
Room: 555 
Chair: Byonghyo Shim (Korea University, Korea)
14:00 Opportunistic Beamforming with Single Beamforming Matrix for Virtual Antenna 
Arrays
Jinho Choi (Swansea University, United Kingdom)
14:18 Worst-Case SINR Constrained Robust Coordinated Beamforming for Multicell 
Wireless Systems
Chao Shen (Beijing Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Kun-Yu Wang (National Tsing Hua 
University, Taiwan); Tsung-Hui Chang (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Zhengding 
Qiu (, P.R. China); Chong-Yung Chi (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan)
14:36 Is Transmit Beamforming Robust?
Jiaheng Wang (Royal Insitute of Technology (KTH), Sweden); Miquel Payaró (CTTC, Spain)
14:54 Joint source power control and relay beamforming in amplify-and-forward 
cognitive networks with multiple source-destination pairs
Keyvan Zarifi (University of Quebec, INRS-EMT, Canada); Sofiene Affes (INRS-EMT, 
Canada); Ali Ghrayeb (Concordia University, Canada)
15:12 Beamforming for Space Division Duplexing
Damith Senaratne (University of Alberta, Canada); Chintha Tellambura (University of 
Alberta, Canada)
SPC-P: Topics on Signal Processing in Communications
Room: Plazza in front of Event Hall 
Chair: Luc Deneire (University of Nice & University of Aalborg, France)
Blind Decision-Directed Parameter Estimation for Energy Detection of PAM Signals
Antti Anttonen (VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, Finland); Adrian Kotelba (VTT 
Technical Research Centre of Finland, Finland); Aarne O Mammela (VTT, Finland)
A Dirty Paper Scheme for Hierarchical OFDM
Michele Scagliola (University of Vigo, Spain); Fernando Perez-Gonzalez (University of Vigo, 
Spain); Pietro Guccione (Politecnico di Bari, Italy)
Probability Distributions of Products of Rayleigh and Nakagami-m Variables Using 
Mellin Transform
Sohail Ahmed (College of Aeronautical Engineering, Pakistan); Lajos Hanzo (University of 
Southampton, United Kingdom); Lie-Liang Yang (University of Southampton, United 
Kingdom)
Chip Equalization Using Subband Adaptive Decomposition in Downlink MIMO DS-UWB
Chia-Chang (James) Hu (National Chung Cheng University, Taiwan); Yung-Cheng Liao 
(National Chung Cheng University, Taiwan)
Impact of Arbitrary Co-channel MIMO Modes on Alamouti Coding Under Path-loss and 
Rayleigh Fading
Yongzhao Li (Xidian University, P.R. China); Lu Zhang (Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs (China), 
P.R. China); Len Cimini (University of Delaware, USA); Hailin Zhang (Xidian University, P.R. 
China)
LTE Physical Layer Identity Detection: Frequency vs Time Domain Schemes
Hendra Setiawan (Kyushu Institute of Technology, Japan); Masayuki Kurosaki (Kyusyu 
Institute of Technology, Japan); Hiroshi Ochi (Kyushu Institute of Technology, Japan)
Optimal Recursive Spatial Multiplexing Strategies for Slowly Time-Varying MIMO 
Channels
Thomas Edlich (University of Kassel, Germany); Thomas Hunziker (University of Kassel, 
Germany); Ibrahim Shah (University of Kassel, Germany); Dirk Dahlhaus (University of 
Kassel, Germany)
Super-Resolution Blind Channel Modeling
Man-On Pun (Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, USA); Andreas Molisch (University 
of Southern California, USA); Philip Orlik (Mitsubishi Electric, USA); Akihiro Okazaki 
(Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Japan)
On Signal Phase Based Modulation Classification
Qinghua Shi (University of Electro-Communications, Japan); Yoshio Karasawa (University of 
Electro-Communications, Japan)
Performance Analysis of Amplify and Forward Cooperation over Peak-Power Limited 
Channels
Koji Ishibashi (Shizuoka University, Japan); Hideki Ochiai (Yokohama National University, 
Japan)
Cooperative Diversity in Coded CDMA Systems over Frequency-Selective Fading 
Channels
Amr Eid (Concordia University, Canada); Walaa Hamouda (Concordia University, Canada); 
Iyad Dayoub (University Lille Nord de France, France)
Joint Training and Beamforming Design for Performance Discrimination Using Artificial 
Noise
Tsung-Hui Chang (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Wei-Cheng Chiang (National 
Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Yao-Win Peter Hong (National Tsing Hua University, 
Taiwan); Chong-Yung Chi (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan)
WCS-17: MIMO II
Room: C-1 
Chair: Serguei L. Primak (The University of Western Ontario, Canada)
頁 31 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Ritesh Madan (QUALCOMM-Flarion Technologies, USA); Siddharth Ray (Not affiliated, 
USA)
14:36 Cooperative Strategies and Fairness-Aware Resource Allocation in Selection-
Based OFDM Networks
Kianoush Hosseini (University of Toronto, Canada); Raviraj Adve (University of Toronto, 
Canada)
14:54 Simple Prediction-Based Power Control for the On-Body Area Communications 
Channel
David B Smith (National ICT Australia, Australia); Tharaka Anuradha Lamahewa (Australian 
National University, Australia); Leif W Hanlen (National ICT Australia, Australia); Dino 
Miniutti (National ICT Australia, Australia)
15:12 Resource Allocation Algorithm for GSM-OSC Cellular Systems
Daniele Molteni (Politecnico di Milano, Italy); Monica Nicoli (Politecnico di Milano, Italy); 
Mikko Säily (Nokia Siemens Networks, Finland)
WNS-09: Scheduling
Room: J 
Chair: Abd-Elhamid M. Taha (Queen's University, Canada)
14:00 DSA: Distributed Semi-Asynchronous Sleep Scheduling Protocol for Mobile 
Wireless Networks
Bong Jun Choi (University of Waterloo, Canada); Sherman Shen (University of Waterloo, 
Canada)
14:18 Distributed Throughput-optimal Scheduling in Ad Hoc Wireless Networks
Qiao Li (Carnegie Mellon University, USA); Rohit Negi (Carnegie Mellon University, USA)
14:36 Scheduling in Wireless Networks under Uncertainties: A Greedy Primal-Dual 
Approach
Qiao Li (Carnegie Mellon University, USA); Rohit Negi (Carnegie Mellon University, USA)
14:54 Predictive Scheduling in Drive-thru Networks with Flow-Level Dynamics and 
Deadlines
Shengbo Yang (Nanyang Technological University, Singapore); Chai Kiat Yeo (Nanyang 
Technological University, Singapore); Bu Sung Lee (Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore)
15:12 Efficient Discovery of Spectrum Opportunities via Adaptive Collaborative 
Spectrum Sensing in Cognitive Radio Networks
Tao Jiang (Huazhong University of Science and Technology, P.R. China); Zhiqiang Wang 
(Huazhong University of Science and Technology, P.R. China); Daiming Qu (Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, P.R. China); Tingting Jin (Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, P.R. China)
WNS-10: Wireless Multimedia Services
Room: K 
Chair: Jianfei Cai (Nanyang Technological University, Singapore)
14:00 Scalable Video Coding with Compressive Sensing for Wireless Videocast
Siyuan Xiang (University of Victoria, Canada); Lin Cai (University of Victoria, Canada)
14:18 Layered Video Transmission using Wireless Path Diversity based on Grey 
Relational Analysis
Abdul Razzaq (LIPADE, Laboratoire d'informatique Paris Descartes, France); Ahmed 
Mehaoua (University of Paris Descartes, France)
14:36 A Seamless Quality-Driven Multi-Hop Data Delivery Scheme for Video Streaming in 
Urban VANET Scenarios
Mahdi Asefi (University of Waterloo, Canada); Sandra Céspedes (University of Waterloo, 
Canada); Sherman Shen (University of Waterloo, Canada); Jon Mark (University of 
Waterloo, Canada)
14:54 Utility-Based Resource Allocation for Layer-Encoded IPTV Multicast Service in 
Wireless Relay Networks
Shi-Sheng Sun (National Taiwan University, Taiwan); Wanjiun Liao (National Taiwan 
University, Taiwan)
15:12 QoC-based Context Data Caching for Disaster Area Scenarios
Mario Fanelli (University of Bologna, Italy); Luca Foschini (University of Bologna, Italy); 
Antonio Corradi (University of Bologna, Italy); Azzedine Boukerche (University of Ottawa, 
Canada)
WNS-P1: Topics I on Wireless Networking
Room: Plaza in front of Event Hall 
Chair: Hangguan Shan (Zhejiang University, P.R. China)
Analysis and Design of Energy Harvesting Wireless Sensor Networks with Linear 
Topology
Shenqiu Zhang (University of Rochester, USA); Alireza Seyedi (University of Rochester, 
USA)
A New Ultra-Low Power Wireless Sensor Network with Integrated Energy Harvesting, 
Data Sensing, and Wireless Communication
Jingxian Wu (University of Arkansas, USA); Guoqing Zhou (University of Arkansas, USA)
A MOS-based Routing Approach for Wireless Mesh Networks
Salvatore Serrano (University of Messina, Italy); Giuseppe Campobello (University of 
Messina, Italy); Alessandro Leonardi (University of Catania, Italy); Sergio Palazzo 
(University of Catania, Italy)
Orion Routing Protocol for Delay Tolerant Networks
Samir Medjiah (University of Bordeaux-1 / CNRS-LaBRI, France); Toufik Ahmed (University 
of Bordeaux-1 / CNRS-LaBRI, France)
High-Throughput Routing with Superposition Coding and Successive Interference 
Cancellation
頁 33 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
16:08 Carrier Sensing with Self-cancelation of Inter-Carrier Emission in Cognitive 
OFDMA System
Lu Ye (Zhejiang University, P.R. China); Zhaoyang Zhang (Zhejiang University, P.R. China); 
Jianmin Zhang (Zhejiang University, P.R. China); Huazi Zhang (Zhejiang University, P.R. 
China)
16:26 Blind spectrum sensing using Bayesian sequential testing with dynamic update
Alan J Coulson (Industrial Research Ltd, New Zealand)
16:44 Spectrum Sensing Based on Asymptotic Behavior of Random Vandermonde 
Matrices
Lei Wang (Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Baoyu Zheng 
(Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Wei-Ping Zhu 
(Concordia University, Canada)
17:02 SNR Wall for Energy Detection with Noise Power Estimation
Andrea Mariani (University of Bologna, Italy); Andrea Giorgetti (University of Bologna, Italy); 
Marco Chiani (University of Bologna, Italy)
CISS-09: Key Distribution and Management
Room: 510 
Chair: Yunghsiang Sam Han (National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taiwan)
15:50 Efficient Group Key Management and Authentication for Body Sensor Networks
Sye Loong Keoh (Philips Research, The Netherlands)
16:08 Designing securely connected wireless sensor networks in the presence of 
unreliable links
Osman Yagan (University of Maryland, USA); Armand M. Makowski (University of Maryland, 
USA)
16:26 A Secure Key Management Scheme in Wireless Mesh Networks
Farah Kandah (North Dakota State University, USA); Weiyi Zhang (AT&T Labs - Research, 
USA); Xiaojiang Du (Temple University, USA); Yashaswi Singh (NDSU, USA)
16:44 Wireless Sensor Network Security model using Zero Knowledge Protocol
Siba Kumar Udgata (University of Hyderabad, India); Alefiah Mubeen (University of 
Hyderabad, India); Samrat Sabat (University of Hyderabad, India)
17:02 Novel Remotely Keyed Encryption Schemes for Smart Card Applications
Ehab Mahmoud Mohamed (Kyushu University, Japan); Yassin M. Y. Hasan (Assiut 
University - Taibah University, Egypt); Hiroshi Furukawa (Kyushu University, Japan)
CSMA-06: Ubiquitous and Web services
Room: 103 
Chair: Olivier Festor (INRIA Nancy - Grand Est, France)
15:50 Polygon Simplification for Location-Based Services Using Population Density
Wonsang Song (Columbia University, USA); Jae Woo Lee (Columbia University, USA); 
Henning Schulzrinne (Columbia University, USA)
16:08 MRD: A Mashup Resource Discovery Approach Applying Semantics Indexing
Li Changbao (Beijing University of Posts & Telecommunications, P.R. China); Bo Cheng 
(Beijing University of Posts & Telecommunications, P.R. China); Junliang Chen (Beijing 
University of Posts and Telecommunications, Taiwan); Gu Pingli (State Key laboratory of 
Networking and Switching Technology, P.R. China); Deng Na (State Key laboratory of 
Networking and Switching Technology, P.R. China); Li Desheng (Beijing University of Posts 
and Telecommunications, P.R. China)
16:26 Adaptation of Bittorrent for heterogeneous networks and ISPs' constraints
Bertrand Mathieu (Orange Labs, France); Abdoulaye Diallo (Orange Labs, France)
16:44 Service Protocol Replaceability Assessment in Mediated Service Interactions
Zhangbing Zhou (Institut TELECOM & Management SudParis, P.R. China); Walid Gaaloul 
(Institut TELECOM & Management SudParis, France); Feng Gao (Digital Enterprise 
Research Institute, Ireland); Lei Shu (Osaka University, Japan); Samir Tata (Institut 
TELECOM & Management SudParis, France)
17:02 Peer-Assisted Time-shifted Streaming Systems: Design and Promises
Yaning Liu (Institut TELECOM - TELECOM Bretagne, France); Gwendal Simon (Institut 
Telecom - Telecom Bretagne, France)
CTS-08: LDPC 2
Room: 501 
Chair: Tomoharu Shibuya (Sophia University & Faculty of Science and Technology, Japan)
15:50 Near Optimum Majority-Logic Based Decoding of Low-Density Parity-Check Codes
Telex Magloire N Ngatched (University of Manitoba, Canada); Attahiru S. Alfa (University of 
Manitoba, Canada); Jun Cai (University of Manitoba, Canada)
16:08 Multiple Phased-Burst Correcting Superposition Product LDPC Codes
Wai H. Fong (George Mason University, USA); Qin Huang (University of California, Davis, 
USA); Shih-Chun Chang (George Mason University, USA); Shu Lin (UC Davis, USA)
16:26 Improved Decoding of Binary and Non-Binary LDPC Codes by Probabilistic 
Shuffled Belief Propagation
Moritz Beermann (RWTH Aachen University, Germany); Laurent Schmalen (Alcatel-Lucent, 
Germany); Peter Vary (RWTH Aachen University, Germany)
16:44 An Iterative Joint Linear-Programming Decoding of LDPC Codes and Finite-State 
Channels
Byung-Hak Kim (Texas A&M University, USA); Henry D Pfister (Texas A&M University, 
USA)
17:02 Architecture-Aware Construction of Raptor Codes
Hady Zeineddine (American University of Beirut, Lebanon); Mohammad M. Mansour 
(American University of Beirut, Lebanon)
頁 35 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Christopher H. Griffin (The Pennsylvania State University, USA); George Kesidis 
(Pennsylvania State University, USA); Panayotis Antoniadis (UPMC Sorbonne Universités, 
France); Serge Fdida (UPMC Sorbonne Universités, France)
16:26 Minimizing Retrieval Cost of Multi-layer Content Distribution Systems
Mathias Björkqvist (IBM Zurich Research Lab, Switzerland); Lydia Y. Chen (IBM Zurich 
Research Laboratory, Switzerland); Xi Zhang (Texas A&M University, ECE Department, 
USA)
16:44 SCAN: Scalable Content Routing for Content-Aware Networking
Munyoung Lee (Seoul National University, Korea); Kideok Cho (Seoul National University, 
Korea); Kunwoo Park (Seoul National University, Korea); Taekyoung Kwon (Seoul National 
University, Korea); Yanghee Choi (Seoul National University, Korea)
17:02 Utilizing Social Influence in Content Distribution Networks
Hossam Sharara (University of Maryland, USA); Cedric Westphal (Docomo Labs USA, 
USA); Svetlana Radosavac (DOCOMO USA Labs, USA); Ulas Can Kozat (DoCoMo-Labs 
USA, USA)
ONS-06: Optical Switching and Routing
Room: 554 
Chair: Vincenzo Eramo (University of Rome "La Sapienza", Italy)
15:50 Optical Packet Switch with Recursive Parametric Wavelength Conversions
Nattapong Kitsuwan (The University of Electro-communications, Japan); Hung Nguyen Tan 
(The University of Electro-Communications, Tokyo, Japan); Motoharu Matsuura (The 
University of Electro-Communications, Japan); Naoto Kishi (The University of Electro-
Communications, Chofu, Tokyo, Japan); Eiji Oki (The University of Electro-Communications, 
Japan)
16:08 The algorithm for rearrangements in the log<sub>2</sub>(N; 0; p) fabrics with odd 
number of stages
Wojciech Kabacinski (Poznan University of Technology, Poland); Marek Michalski (Poznan 
University of Technology, Poland)
16:26 Survivable optical grid dimensioning: anycast routing with server and network 
failure protection
Chris Develder (Ghent University - IBBT, Belgium); Jens Buysse (Ghent University, 
Belgium); Ali Asghar Shaikh (Concordia University, Canada); Brigitte Jaumard (Concordia 
University, Canada); Marc De Leenheer (Ghent University, Belgium); Bart Dhoedt (Ghent 
University, Belgium)
16:44 Load-Aware Anycast Routing in IP-over-WDM Networks
Balagangadhar G Bathula (Columbia University, USA); Vinod M. Vokkarane (University of 
Massachusetts Dartmouth, USA); Caroline P Lai (Columbia University, USA); Keren 
Bergman (Columbia University, USA)
17:02 Dynamic Anycast Routing and Wavelength Assignment in WDM Networks Using 
Ant Colony Optimization (ACO)
Kavitha Bhaskaran (University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, USA); Joan Triay (Universitat 
Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC), Spain); Vinod M. Vokkarane (University of Massachusetts 
Dartmouth, USA)
SPC-06: Hardware implementation
Room: 555 
Chair: Jingxian Wu (University of Arkansas, USA)
15:50 A High-performance 8-tap FIR Filter Using Logarithmic Number System
Yan Sun (Washington State University, USA); Min Sik Kim (Washington State University, 
USA)
16:08 Low Bit-rate High-quality Audio Encoding and Low Complexity Bandwidth 
Extension Technologies for ITU-T G.718/G.718-SWB
Tomofumi Yamanashi (Panasonic Corporation, Japan); Masahiro Oshikiri (Panasonic 
Corporation, Japan); Hiroyuki Ehara (Panasonic Corporation, Japan)
16:26 Scalable Block-based Parallel Lattice Reduction Algorithm for an SDR Baseband 
Processor
Ubaid Ahmad (Katholieke University of Leuven, Belgium); Amir Amin (IMEC, Belgium); Min 
Li (IMEC, Belgium); Sofie Pollin (IMEC / UC Berkeley, USA); Liesbet Van der Perre (IMEC, 
Belgium); Francky Catthoor (IMEC, Belgium)
16:44 Overview of A Software Defined Downlink Inner Receiver for Category-E LTE-
Advanced UE
Min Li (IMEC, Belgium); Raf Appeltans (IMEC, Belgium); Amir Amin (IMEC, Belgium); 
Rodolfo Torrea-Duran (IMEC, Belgium); Hans Cappelle (IMEC, Belgium); Matthias 
Hartmann (IMEC, Belgium); Hidekuni Yomo (Panasonic Corporation, Japan); Kiyotaka 
Kobayashi (Panasonic Corporation, Japan); Antoine Dejonghe (IMEC, Belgium); Liesbet 
Van der Perre (IMEC, Belgium)
17:02 Automatic Joint Optimization of Iterative MIMO-OFDM Receiver Algorithms on a 
Meta Level
Andreas Ibing (Technische Universität München, Germany); Holger Boche (Technical 
University Munich, Germany)
WCS-21: Multiuser MIMO I
Room: C-1 
Chair: Ying Weng (Imperial Colleage, United Kingdom)
15:50 Robust Multimode Selection in the Downlink Multiuser MIMO Channels with 
Delayed CSIT
Jie Xu (University of Science and Technology of China, P.R. China); Ling Qiu (PCN&SS 
Lab, P.R. China)
16:08 Interference Alignment by Opportunistic User Selection in 3-User MIMO 
Interference Channels
Jung Hoon Lee (KAIST, Korea); Wan Choi (KAIST, Korea)
頁 37 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Seok-Hwan Park (Korea University, Korea); Haewook Park (Korea University, Korea); Inkyu 
Lee (Korea University, Korea)
WNS-11: Wireless Sensor Network
Room: J 
Chair: Wei Song (University of New Brunswick, Canada)
15:50 Heterogeneous Multi-Hop Transmission of Compressed ECG Data from Wireless 
Body Area Network
Wei Song (University of New Brunswick, Canada)
16:08 An Energy Efficient Prediction-based Technique for Tracking Moving Objects in 
WSNs
Samer Samarah (University of Ottawa, Canada); Azzedine Boukerche (University of Ottawa, 
Canada)
16:26 Fused-Schedule-Buffer based Data Preparation Mechanism for Generating Target 
Association Rules
Samer Samarah (University of Ottawa, Canada); Azzedine Boukerche (University of Ottawa, 
Canada)
16:44 Topology Analysis of Wireless Sensor Networks for Sandstorm Monitoring
Pu Wang (Georgia Institute of Technology, USA); Zhi Sun (Georgia Institute of Technology, 
USA); Mehmet Can Vuran (University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA); Mznah A. Al-Rodhaan 
(King Saud University, Saudi Arabia); Abdullah Al-Dhelaan (King Saud University, Saudi 
Arabia); Ian F. Akyildiz (Georgia Institute of Technology, USA)
17:02 Design and Construction of Wireless Sensor Network Gateway with IPv4/IPv6 
Support
Bruno Campos (Federal University of Amazonas, Brazil); Joel J. P. C. Rodrigues (Instituto 
de Telecomunicações, University of Beira Interior, Portugal); Lucas Mendes (Instituto de 
Telecomunicações, University of Beira interior, Portugal); Eduardo Freire Nakamura 
(FUCAPI - Research and Technological Innovation Center, Brazil); Maurício Figueiredo 
(FUCAPI, Brazil)
WNS-12: Cooperative Communications
Room: K 
Chair: Richard Yu (Carleton University, Canada)
15:50 OPRA: Optimal Relay Assignment for Capacity Maximization in Cooperative 
Networks
Dejun Yang (Arizona State University, USA); Xi Fang (Arizona State University, USA); 
Guoliang Xue (Arizona State University, USA)
16:08 Performance Bounds of Multi-relay Decode-and-forward Cooperative Networks 
over Nakagami-m Fading Channels
Sheng-Qiang Huang (National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan); Hsiao-Hwa Chen (National 
Cheng Kung University, Taiwan); Meng-Ying Lee (National Sun Yat-Sen University, Taiwan)
16:26 Achievable Rate Analysis in Network-Coded Cooperative Communications with 
Multiple Relay Nodes
Sushant Sharma (Brookhaven National Laboratory, USA); Yi Shi (Virginia Tech, USA); 
Thomas Hou (Virginia Tech, USA); Sastry Kompella (Naval Research Laboratory, USA)
16:44 A Joint Design for Topology and Security in MANETs with Cooperative 
Communications
Quansheng Guan (South China University of Technology, P.R. China); F. Richard Yu 
(Carleton University, Canada); Shengming Jiang (South China University of Technology, 
P.R. China); Victor CM Leung (The University of British Columbia, Canada)
17:02 (m,n)-relaying as an Alternative to Base Station Cooperation for Cellular OFDMA 
Networks
Tommaso Balercia (Technische Universitaet Braunschweig, Germany); Markus Dominik 
Mueck (Infineon Technologies, Germany); Thomas Kuerner (Braunschweig Technical 
University, Germany)
 
 
Wednesday, June 8
 
>> Page Top 
09:00 - 10:30
AHSM-13: Node Deployment and Coverage
Room: B-2 
Chair: Bashir Yahya (University of Versailles, France)
09:00 On Optimal Relay Placement for Urban Vehicular Networks
Youchen Bao (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Yanmin Zhu (Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University, P.R. China)
09:18 Set Cover Approximation Algorithms for Load-aware Readers Placement in RFID 
Networks
Kashif Ali (Queen's University, Canada); Waleed Alsalih (King Saud University, Saudi 
Arabia); Hossam S. Hassanein (Queen's University, Canada)
09:36 Opportunistic Virtual Backbone Construction in Intermittently Connected Mobile 
Ad Hoc Networks
Yaozhou Ma (The University of Sydney, Australia); Abbas Jamalipour (University of Sydney, 
Australia)
09:54 Self-Deployment Algorithms for Field Coverage in a Network of Nonidentical 
Mobile Sensors
Hamid Mahboubi (Concordia University, Canada); Kaveh Moezzi (Concordia University, 
Canada); Amir Aghdam (Concordia University, Canada); Kamran Sayrafian (NIST, USA)
頁 39 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Ziyuan Pan (Shizuoka University, Japan); Yoshihisa Ikuta (Shizuoka University, Japan); 
Masaki Bandai (Sophia University, Japan); Takashi Watanabe (Shizuoka University, Japan)
09:18 Distributed Source Coding for WWAN Multiview Video Multicast with Cooperative 
Peer-to-peer Repair
Zhi Liu (National Institute of Informatics, The Graduate University for Advanced Studies, 
Japan); Gene Cheung (National Institute of Informatics, Japan); Yusheng Ji (National 
Institute of Informatics, Japan)
09:36 On Network Utilization of Peer-to-Peer Video Live Streaming On the Internet
Xiangyang Zhang (Queen's University, Canada); Hossam S. Hassanein (Queen's 
University, Canada)
09:54 Employing QoS Driven Neighbor Selection for Heterogeneous Peer-to-Peer 
Streaming
Laizhong Cui (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Yong Jiang (Graduate School at Shenzhen, 
Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Jianping Wu (Tsinghua University, P.R. China)
10:12 A Cross-Layer Architecture for Motion-Adaptive Video Transmission over MIMO 
Channels
Maryam Hafeez (University of Leeds, United Kingdom); Sobia Jangsher (National University 
of Sciences and Technology, NUST, Pakistan); Syed Ali Khayam (National University of 
Sciences and Technology (NUST), Pakistan)
CTS-10: Theory of Communication Networks
Room: 501 
Chair: Daniela Tuninetti (University of Illinois at Chicago, USA)
09:00 Optimality of Separate Network-Channel Coding
Peng Hui Tan (Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore); Chin Keong Ho (Institute for 
Infocomm Research, Singapore); Sumei Sun (Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore)
09:18 Design of Distributed Network-Channel Codes for Wireless Sensor Networks
Kun Pang (the University of Sydney, Australia); Zihuai Lin (University of Sydney, Australia); 
Yonghui Li (University of Sydney, Australia); Branka Vucetic (The University of Sydney, 
Australia)
09:36 Compressive Forwarding for Jointly Sparse Signals in Amplify-and-Forward 
Gaussian Relay Networks
Steven Corroy (RWTH Aachen University, Germany); Rudolf Mathar (RWTH Aachen 
University, Germany)
09:54 High Throughput Random Access via Codes on Graphs: Coded Slotted ALOHA
Enrico Paolini (DEIS, WiLAB, University of Bologna, Italy); Gianluigi Liva (DLR (German 
Aerospace Center), Germany); Marco Chiani (University of Bologna, Italy)
10:12 A note on the multiple unicast capacity of directed acyclic networks
Shurui Huang (Iowa State University, USA); Aditya Ramamoorthy (Iowa State University, 
USA)
CTS-11: Space-time Coding and MIMO Channels
Room: 509 
Chairs: Tomoaki Ohtsuki (Keio University, Japan), Matthew Valenti (West Virginia University, USA)
09:00 Asymptotically-Optimal, Fast-Decodable, Full-Diversity STBCs
Lakshmi Prasad Natarajan (Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India); B. Sundar Rajan 
(Indian Institute of Science, India)
09:18 Fast-Group-Decodable STBCs via codes over GF(4): Further Results
Lakshmi Prasad Natarajan (Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India); B. Sundar Rajan 
(Indian Institute of Science, India)
09:36 On Robust Weighted-Sum Rate Maximization in MIMO Interference Networks
Jubin Jose (University of Texas at Austin, USA); Narayan Prasad (NEC Labs America, 
Princeton, USA); Mohammad Khojastepour (NEC Laboratories America, USA); Sampath 
Rangarajan (NEC Labs America, USA)
09:54 MIMO Broadcast Channel Rate Region with Linear Filtering at High SNR: Full 
Multiplexing
Paul de Kerret (EURECOM, France); Raphael Hunger (Technische Universität München, 
Germany); Michael Joham (Technische Universität München, Germany); Wolfgang Utschick 
(Technische Universität München, Germany); Rudolf Mathar (RWTH Aachen University, 
Germany)
10:12 The Feedback-Capacity Tradeoff for Opportunistic Beamforming
Tharaka Samarasinghe (University of Melbourne, Australia); Hazer Inaltekin (The University 
of Melbourne, Australia); Jamie Evans (University of Melbourne, Australia)
CQRM-07: Performance Modeling and Network Design
Room: G 
Chair: Stefano Giordano (University of Pisa, Italy)
09:00 A Group-based Protocol for Improving Energy Distribution in Smart Grids
Jaime Lloret (Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, Spain); Marc Gilg (University of Haute-
Alsace, France); Miguel Garcia (Universidad Politecnica de Valencia, Spain); Pascal Lorenz 
(University of Haute Alsace, France)
09:18 An Optimal Estimation of Origin-Destination Traffic in Large-Scale Backbone 
Network
Dingde Jiang (Northeastern University, P.R. China); Xingwei Wang (Northeastern 
University, P.R. China); Zhengzheng Xu (Northeastern University, P.R. China); Zhenhua 
Chen (Northeastern University, P.R. China); Hongwei Xu (Northeastern University, P.R. 
China)
09:36 TCP Window-size Delegation for TXOP Exchange in Wireless Access Networks
Takayuki Nishio (Kyoto University, Japan); Ryoichi Shinkuma (Kyoto University, Japan); 
Tatsuro Takahashi (Kyoto University, Japan); Go Hasegawa (Osaka University, Japan)
09:54 Tcpmoon: Monitoring the Diffusion of TCP Congestion Control Variants in the 
Internet
頁 41 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
SPC-07: Signal Processing for OFDM-1
Room: 555 
Chair: Pravinkumar Premakanthan (Research and Development Systems Engineer, USA)
09:00 Best-Effort Interference Alignment in OFDM Systems With Finite SNR
Meng Shen (SouthEast University, P.R. China); Xiao Liang (Southeast university, P.R. 
China); Chunming Zhao (Southeast University, P.R. China); Zhi Ding (University of 
California at Davis, USA)
09:18 Compressive Sensing Recovery of Nonlinearly Distorted OFDM Signals
Mohammad Mohammadnia-Avval (University of British Columbia, Canada); Abolfazl 
Ghassemi (Stanford University, USA); Lutz Lampe (University of British Columbia, Canada)
09:36 Investigation of Blanking Nonlinearity in OFDM Systems
Ulrich Epple (German Aerospace Center (DLR), Germany); Kamel Shibli (Karlsruhe Institute 
for Technology, Germany); Michael Schnell (German Aerospace Center (DLR), Germany)
09:54 Receiver DSP for OFDM Systems Impaired by Transmitter and Receiver Phase 
Noise
Ville Syrjälä (Tampere University of Technology, Finland); Mikko Valkama (Tampere 
University of Technology, Finland)
10:12 Design and Performance Evaluation of Filtered Multitone (FMT) in Doubly 
Dispersive Channels
Pooyan Amini (University of Utah, USA); Behrouz Farhang-Boroujeny (University of Utah, 
USA)
WCS-25: Wireless Channel
Room: C-1 
Chair: Jack H. Winters (Jack Winters Communications, LLC, USA)
09:00 Measurement Aided Model Design for WCDMA Link Error Statistics
Markus Laner (Vienna University of Technology, Austria); Philipp Svoboda (Vienna 
University of Technology, Austria); Markus Rupp (Vienna University of Technology, Austria)
09:18 Effect of Bandwidth on the Number of Multipath Components in Realistic Wireless 
Indoor Channels
Wesley M. Gifford (IBM Research, USA); William Wei-Liang Li (The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Ying Jun (Angela) Zhang (The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong); Moe Win (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA)
09:36 Auto-regressive modeling of the shadowing for RSS mobile tracking
Hadi Noureddine (Telecom Bretagne, France); Nicolas Gresset (Mitsubishi Electric 
Research Centre Europe, France); Damien Castelain (Mitsubishi Electric MERC France, 
France); Ramesh Mahendra Pyndiah (institut Telecom/TELECOM Bretagne, France)
09:54 Estimating the Nakagami-m Fading Parameter By the Generalized Method of 
Moments
Ning Wang (University of Victoria, Canada); Julian Cheng (University of British Columbia, 
Canada)
10:12 Semi-Markov Modeling for Body Area Networks
Vasanta Chaganti (Australian National University, Australia); Leif W Hanlen (National ICT 
Australia, Australia); Tharaka Anuradha Lamahewa (Australian National University, 
Australia)
WCS-26: Relay Systems V
Room: C-2 
Chair: Sarmad Sohaib (University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, Pakistan)
09:00 A Near Optimal Amplify and Forward Relaying in Two-Way Relay Networks
Shuang Tian (The University of Sydney, Australia); Yonghui Li (University of Sydney, 
Australia); Branka Vucetic (The University of Sydney, Australia)
09:18 Relay Selection for Bi-directional Amplify-and-Forward Wireless Networks
Lingyang Song (Peking University, P.R. China)
09:36 Relay Selection with Outdated Channel Estimates in Nakagami-m Fading
Diomidis S. Michalopoulos (University of British Columbia, Canada); Nestor Chatzidiamantis 
(Aristotle University Thessaloniki, Greece); Robert Schober (University of British Columbia, 
Canada); George K. Karagiannidis (Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece)
09:54 On the optimization of decode-and-forward schemes for two-way asymmetric 
relaying
Zhiyong Chen (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Hui Liu 
(University of Washington, USA); Wenbo Wang (Beijing University of Posts and 
Telecommunications, P.R. China)
10:12 Network-Coded Interference Alignment in K-Pair Bidirectional Relaying Channels
Toshiaki Koike-Akino (MERL, USA); Man-On Pun (Mitsubishi Electric Research 
Laboratories, USA); Philip Orlik (Mitsubishi Electric, USA)
WCS-27: UWB
Room: D 
Chair: Tetsushi Ikegami (Meiji University, Japan)
09:00 Novel Adaptive Receivers with Low Complexity for Multi-user UWB
Bo Zhao (University of Warwick, United Kingdom); Yunfei Chen (University of Warwick, 
United Kingdom); Roger Green (University of Warwick, United Kingdom)
09:18 Noncoherent Multiple Symbol Detection for MIMO Ultra-Wideband Systems
Taotao Wang (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Tiejun Lv 
(Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Hui Gao (Beijing 
University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China)
09:36 Ziv-Zakai Lower Bound for Impulse Radio Ultra-WideBand Ranging Error 
Correlation Matrix
頁 43 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Keivan Ronasi (University of British Columbia, Canada); Hamed Mohsenian-Rad (Texas 
Tech University, USA); Vincent W.S. Wong (University of British Columbia, Canada); 
Sathish Gopalakrishnan (University of British Columbia, Canada); Robert Schober 
(University of British Columbia, Canada)
10:50 - 12:20
AHSM-15: RFID and Object Detection
Room: B-2 
Chair: Zenghua Zhao (Tianjin University, P.R. China)
10:50 Potential of RFID Systems to Detect Object Orientation
Rasmus Krigslund (Aalborg University, Denmark); Petar Popovski (Aalborg University, 
Denmark); Gert Pedersen (Aalborg University, Denmark); Kristian Bank (Aalborg University, 
Denmark)
11:08 High Performance Tag Singulation for Memory-less RFID Systems
Keyvan Kashkouli Nejad (Tohoku University, Japan); Xiaohong Jiang (Future University-
Hakodate, Japan); Michitaka Kameyama (Tohoku University, Japan)
11:26 Optimizing Sensor Communication Exposure in Target Detection Applications
Zhengzheng Xu (Shanghai JiaoTong University, P.R. China); Jia-Liang Lu (Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University, P.R. China); Wei Shu (The University of New Mexico, USA); Charles-
Francois Curis (INSA Lyon, France); Min-You Wu (Shanghai JiaoTong University, P.R. 
China)
11:44 Anonymity Analysis on Social Spot based Pseudonym Changing for Location 
Privacy in VANETs
Rongxing Lu (University of Waterloo, Canada); Xiaodong Lin (University of Ontario Institute 
of Technology, Canada); Tom Luan (University of Waterloo, Canada); Xiaohui Liang 
(University of Waterloo, Canada); Sherman Shen (University of Waterloo, Canada)
12:02 A Simple Probabilistic Relay Selection Protocol for Asynchronous Multi-Relay 
Networks Employing Rateless Codes
Xijun Wang (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Wei Chen (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); 
Zhigang Cao (Tsinghua University, P.R. China)
AHSM-16: Network Security in Mobile Adhoc and Sensor Networks
Room: I 
Chair: Osama Farrag (Johns Hopkins University APL, USA)
10:50 On Securing HWMP using IBC
Jalel Ben-othman (University of Versailles, France); Yesica Saavedra Benitez (University of 
Versailles, France)
11:08 Mobile Assisted Key Distribution in Wireless Sensor Networks
Baris Tas (University of Texas at San Antonio, USA); Ali Saman Tosun (University of Texas 
at San Antonio, USA)
11:26 Effective Data-Centric Reputation Systems for MANETs: A Novel Evaluation 
Framework
Jerzy Konorski (Gdansk University of Technology, Poland)
11:44 A Service Negotiation Model for Selfish nodes in the Mobile Ad hoc networks
Yang Yang (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); ShaoYong 
Guo (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Qiu Xue-song 
(Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Luoming Meng (Beijing 
University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China)
12:02 A Study on Certificate Revocation in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks
Wei Liu (Tohoku University, Japan); Hiroki Nishiyama (Tohoku University, Japan); Nirwan 
Ansari (NJIT, USA); Nei Kato (Tohoku University, Japan)
AHSM-P2: Topics II on Adhoc, Sensor and Mesh Networking
Room: Plaza in front of Event Hall 
Chair: Waleed Alsalih (King Saud University, Saudi Arabia)
Topology Control and Coverage Enhancement of Dynamic Networks Based on The 
Controllable Movement of Mobile Agents
Zhenqiang Mi (University of Science and Technology Beijing, P.R. China); Yang Yang 
(University of Science and Technology, P.R. China)
Capacity-Optimized Topology Control for MANETs with Cooperative Communications
Quansheng Guan (South China University of Technology, P.R. China); F. Richard Yu 
(Carleton University, Canada); Shengming Jiang (South China University of Technology, 
P.R. China)
QoS swarm bee routing protocol for Vehicular ad hoc networks
Salim Bitam (Mohamed Khider University of Biskra, Algeria); Abdelhamid Mellouk (UPEC, 
University Paris-Est Creteil Val de Marne, France)
A New Phase for Screening Redundant Broadcast Nodes in Source-Independent 
Broadcasting Protocols
Wilson Woon (The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Kwan Yeung (University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong)
Interplanetary Overlay Network (ION) for Long-delay Communications with Asymmetric 
Channel Rates
Ruhai Wang (Lamar University, USA); Vivek Dave (Lamar University, USA); Bin Ren (Lamar 
University, USA); Ramakrishna Bhavanthula (Lamar University, USA); Qinyu Zhang 
(Shenzhen Graduate School, Harbin Institute of Technology, P.R. China); Jia Hou (Soochow 
University, P.R. China); Liulei Zhou (Soochow University, P.R. China)
Analysis of the Impact of the Physical Environment on a Wireless Sensor Network
Siarhei Smolau (Laval University, Canada); Ronald Beaubrun (Université Laval, Canada)
Event Aggregation with Different Latency Constraints and Aggregation Functions in 
Wireless Sensor Networks
頁 45 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Yunfei Chen (University of Warwick, United Kingdom); Mohamed-Slim Alouini (KAUST, 
Saudi Arabia); Fahd Ahmed Khan (King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, 
Saudi Arabia); Liang Tang (Warwick University, United Kingdom)
Resource Allocation for OFDMA-based Cognitive Radio Systems with Primary User 
Activity Consideration
Li Li (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Changqing Xu (Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, P.R. China); Jian He (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China)
Closed-form Approximations for Cooperative LLR-based Energy Detection in Cognitive 
Radios
Ibrahim Khalife (University of Valencia, Spain); Baltasar Beferull-Lozano (Universidad de 
Valencia, Spain)
Optimal Power Allocation for PNC Relay based Communications in Cognitive Radio
Saliya Jayasinghe (Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand); Nandana Rajatheva (Asian 
Institute of Technology, Thailand); Matti Latva-aho (UoOulu, Finland)
Energy Efficient Joint Source and Channel Sensing in Cognitive Radio Sensor Networks
Huazi Zhang (Zhejiang University, P.R. China); Zhaoyang Zhang (Zhejiang University, P.R. 
China); Xiaoming Chen (Zhejiang University, P.R. China); Rui Yin (Zhe Jiang University, 
P.R. China)
Opportunistic Channel Sharing based on Primary User Transition Probabilities in Dual 
Mode Cognitive Radio Networks
Sivasothy Senthuran (Ryerson University, Canada); Alagan Anpalagan (Ryerson University, 
Canada); Olivia Das (Ryerson University, Canada); Hyung-Yun Kong (University of Ulsan, 
Korea)
Throughput-Sensing Tradeoff of Cognitive Radio Networks Based on Quickest Sensing
Sepideh Zarrin (University of Toronto, Canada); Teng Joon Lim (University of Toronto, 
Canada)
Cross-Channel Estimation Using Supervised Probing and Sensing in Cognitive Radio 
Networks
Ian Bajaj (Nanyang Technological University, Singapore); Yi Gong (Nanyang Technological 
University, Singapore)
Game Theoretic Channel Selection for Opportunistic Spectrum Access with Unknown 
Prior Information
Yuhua Xu (Institute of Communications Engineering PLA University of Science and 
Technology, P.R. China); Qihui Wu (PLA University of Sci. & Tech., P.R. China); Jinlong 
Wang (PLA University of Science and Technology, P.R. China)
Performance Evaluation of IEEE 802.19.1 Coexistence System
Stanislav Anatolievich Filin (NICT, Japan); Tuncer Baykas (National Institute of Information 
and Communications Technology, Japan); Mohammad Azizur Rahman (National Institute of 
Information and Communications Technology, Japan); Hiroshi Harada (National Institute of 
Information & Communications Technology (NICT), Japan)
CISS-11: Privacy and Trust
Room: 510 
Chair: Kpatcha Bayarou (Fraunhofer Institute for Secure Information Technology, Germany)
10:50 SAMA: Serverless Anonymous Mutual Authentication for Low-Cost RFID Tags
Sowmya Myneni (New Mexico State University, USA); Satyajayant Misra (New Mexico State 
University, USA); Guoliang Xue (Arizona State University, USA)
11:08 A Robust Collaborative Filtering Algorithm Using Ordered Logistic Regression
Shanshan Zheng (University of Maryland, College Park, USA); Tao Jiang (University of 
Maryland, College Park, USA); John S. Baras (University of Maryland College Park, USA)
11:26 Believe Yourself: A User-centric Misbehavior Detection Scheme for Secure 
Collaborative Spectrum Sensing
Shuai Li (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Haojin Zhu (Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, P.R. China); Bo Yang (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Cailian Chen 
(Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Xinping Guan (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 
P.R. China)
11:44 A Novel Attack Tree Based Risk Assessment Approach for Location Privacy 
Preservation in the VANETs
Dandan Ren (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Suguo Du (Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, P.R. China); Haojin Zhu (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China)
12:02 Ontology-based Risk Evaluation in User-centric Identity Management
Gail-Joon Ahn (Arizona State University, USA); Pradeep Sekar (Arizona State University, 
USA)
CTS-12: Network Information Theory and Secure Communications
Room: 501 
Chair: Lifeng Lai (University of Arkansas, Little Rock, USA)
10:50 Harnessing Interference with an Out-of-Band Relay: an Approximate Capacity 
Result
Ye Tian (Pennsylvania State University, USA); Aylin Yener (Pennsylvania State University, 
USA)
11:08 Lattice Coding over the Relay Channel
Matthew Nokleby (Rice University, USA); Behnaam Aazhang (Rice University, USA)
11:26 Signal Space Alignment for an Encryption Message and Successive Network Code 
Decoding on the MIMO K-way Relay Channel
Namyoon Lee (Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, Korea); Joohwan Chun (Korea 
Advance Institute of Science and Technology, Korea)
11:44 On a Mutual Information and a Capacity Bound Gap of Pilot-Aided MIMO Channels
Adriano Pastore (Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, Spain); Michael Joham (Technische 
Universität München, Germany); Javier R. Fonollosa (Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya - 
Barcelona Tech (UPC), Spain)
12:02 Semi-Blind Key-Agreement over MIMO Fading Channels
Francesco Renna (University of Padova, Italy); Matthieu Bloch (Georgia Institute of 
Technology, France); Nicola Laurenti (University of Padova, Italy)
頁 47 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
11:08 Load-Balanced Shortest-Path-Based Routing Without Traffic Splitting in Hose 
Model
Shunichi Tsunoda (The University of Electro-Communications, Japan); Abu Hena Al 
Muktadir (The University of Electro-Communications, Japan); Eiji Oki (The University of 
Electro-Communications, Japan)
11:26 Routing for Deadline-constrained Bulk Data Transfers Based on Transfer Failure 
Probability
Yaoquan Zhong (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Wei Guo (Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University, P.R. China); Yaohui Jin (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China); 
Weiqiang Sun (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Weisheng Hu (Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University, P.R. China)
11:44 Minimizing Path Delay in Multipath Networks
Fabrizio Devetak (Illinois Institute of Technology, USA); Junghwan Shin (Illinois Institute of 
Technology, USA); Tricha Anjali (Illinois Institute of Technology, USA); Sanjiv Kapoor 
(Illinois Institute of Technology, USA)
12:02 On the Scalability of Path Exploration Using Opportunistic Path-Vector Routing
Hasan T Karaoglu (University of Nevada - Reno, USA); Murat Yuksel (University of Nevada 
- Reno, USA); Mehmet Hadi Günes, (University of Nevada, Reno, USA)
SPC-08: Precoding
Room: 554 
Chair: Tharmalingam Ratnarajah (Queen's University of Belfast, United Kingdom)
10:50 A MMSE Vector Precoding with Block Diagonalization for Multiuser MIMO Downlink
Jungyong Park (Korea University, Korea); Byungju Lee (Korea University, Korea); Byonghyo 
Shim (Korea University, Korea)
11:08 Successive SLNR Based Precoding for Downlink Multi-user MIMO Systems
Xunyong Zhang (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Chen He (Shanghai Jiaotong 
University, P.R. China); Lingge Jiang (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China)
11:26 Sum Rate Optimization for Coordinated Multi-Antenna Base Station Systems
Tadilo Endeshaw (University of Catolique de Louvain, Belgium); Luc Vandendorpe 
(University of Louvain, Belgium)
11:44 Utilization of Primary-Secondary Cross-Interference via Adaptive Precoding in 
Cognitive Relay Assisted MIMO Wireless Systems
Christos Masouros (Queen's University Belfast, United Kingdom); Tharmalingam Ratnarajah 
(Queen's University of Belfast, United Kingdom)
12:02 Joint Source and Relay Precoding Designs for MIMO Two-Way Relay Systems
Rui Wang (Shanghai Jiaotong university, P.R. China); Meixia Tao (Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, P.R. China)
SPC-09: Signal Processing for OFDM - 2
Room: 555 
Chair: Hung Nguyen (The Aerospace Corporation, USA)
10:50 Blind and Semi-Blind Sparse Channel Identification in MIMO OFDM Systems
Abdeldjalil Ai"ssa-El-Bey (TELECOM Bretagne, France); Dai Kimura (Fujitsu Laboratories, 
Japan); Hiroyuki Seki (Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd., Japan); Tomohiko Taniguchi (Fujitsu 
Laboratories Ltd., Japan)
11:08 A Novel PAPR Reduction Scheme with Low Complexity in Time Domain for OFDM 
System
Seung-Sik Eom (Korea University, Korea); Young-Chai Ko (Korea University, Korea)
11:26 Worst Case and Expected Peak-to-Average Power Ratio for Orthonormal Systems
Brendan Farrell (Technical University of Berlin, Germany); Holger Boche (Technical 
University Munich, Germany)
11:44 Designs of Training Signals for Spatially Correlated Multi-User MIMO-OFDM
Nam Tran Nguyen (University of Saskatchewan, Canada); Ha Nguyen (University of 
Saskatchewan, Canada); Hoang D. Tuan (UNSW, Australia); David Dodds (University of 
Saskatchewan, Canada)
12:02 Feedback-Aided Pilot Placement for OFDM Relay Links with Subcarrier Pairing
Kuang-Yu Sung (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Yao-Win Peter Hong (National 
Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Chi-chao Chao (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan)
WCS-29: OFDM III
Room: C-1 
Chair: Stefan Kaiser (DOCOMO Euro-Labs, Germany)
10:50 Modelling and Estimation of Correlated MIMO-OFDM Fading Channels
Chien-Chun Cheng (National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan); Yen-Chih Chen (National 
Chiao Tung University, Taiwan); Yu Ted Su (National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan)
11:08 Cooperative Space-Time Coded OFDM with Timing Errors and Carrier Frequency 
Offsets
Fernando Sánchez (Telecommunications Research Center Vienna (ftw.), Austria); Thomas 
Zemen (FTW Forschungszentrum Telekommunikation Wien, Austria); Gerald Matz (Vienna 
University of Technology, Austria); Florian Kaltenberger (Eurecom, France); Nicolai Czink 
(FTW Telecommunications Research Center Vienna, Austria)
11:26 The Impact of Timing Synchronization Errors on the Performance of OFDM/FBMC 
Systems
Yahia Medjahdi (Cnam, France); Michel Terré (CNAM, France); Didier Le Ruyet (CNAM, 
France); Daniel Roviras (Cnam, France); Ali Dziri (CNAM Paris, France)
11:44 Transmit Diversity Scheme for TDS-OFDM Systems with Reduced Complexity
Linglong Dai (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Zhaocheng Wang (Tsinghua University, 
P.R. China); Jintao Wang (Tshinghua University, P.R. China); Jun Wang (Tsinghua 
University, Puerto Rico)
12:02 Piece-Wise Polynomial Approximation based Channel Estimation for High-Mobility 
OFDM
頁 49 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Md Shohrab Hossain (University of Oklahoma, USA); Mohammed Atiquzzaman (University 
of Oklahoma, USA); William D. Ivancic (NASA Glenn Research Center, USA)
11:08 Joint Handoff and Energy Management for a Wireless Mesh Network
Yang Yang (McMaster University, Canada); Dongmei Zhao (McMaster University, Canada)
11:26 Resolving RACH Congestion for High Speed Moving Group in Wireless Networks
Hongxia Zhao (Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., P.R. China); Rongsheng Huang (University 
of Florida, USA); Yuguang Fang (University of Florida, USA)
11:44 Handover Measurement in Mobile Cellular Networks: Analysis and Applications to 
LTE
Van Minh Nguyen (Bell Labs, Alcatel-Lucent, France); Chung Shue Chen (INRIA-ENS, 
France); Laurent Thomas (Alcatel-Lucent, France)
12:02 Characterizing Data Services in a 3G Network: Usage, Mobility and Access Issues
Zhichao Zhu (The Pennsylvania State University, USA); Guohong Cao (Pennsylvania State 
University, USA); Ram Keralapura (Narus, Inc, USA); Antonio Nucci (Narus inc., USA)
WNS-16: Power Control and Interference Management
Room: K 
Chair: Husheng Li (University of Tennessee, USA)
10:50 Distributed Power Control for Ad-hoc Communications via Stochastic Nonconvex 
Utility Optimization
Lei Yang (Arizona State University, USA); Yalin E Sagduyu (Intelligent Automation, Inc., 
USA); Junshan Zhang (Arizona State University, USA); Jason Hongjun Li (Intelligent 
Automation Inc., USA)
11:08 Power allocation and scheduling for broadband wireless networks considering 
mutual interference
Bojiang Ma (UVic, Canada); Zhe Yang (UVic, Canada); Lin Cai (University of Victoria, 
Canada); T. Aaron Gulliver (University of Victoria, Canada)
11:26 Self-Organizing Fractional Power Control for Interference Coordination in OFDMA 
Networks
Richard Combes (Orange Labs, France); Zwi Altman (France Telecom R&D, France); Eitan 
Altman (INRIA, France)
11:44 Low-Weight Channel Coding for Interference Mitigation in Electromagnetic 
Nanonetworks in the Terahertz Band
Josep Miquel Jornet (Georgia Institute of Technology, USA); Ian F. Akyildiz (Georgia 
Institute of Technology, USA)
12:02 Integrated Interference Coordination for Relay-aided Cellular OFDMA System
Liang Liang (University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, P.R. China); Gang 
Feng (University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, P.R. China); Yide Zhang 
(University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, P.R. China)
WNS-P2: Topics II on Wireless Networking
Room: Plaza in front of Event Hall 
Chair: Lingyang Song (Peking University, P.R. China)
Practical Provably Secure Communication for Half-Duplex Radios
Moustafa Youssef (Egypt-Japan University of Science and Technology (E-JUST), Egypt); 
Mohamed Elsabagh (Nile University, Egypt); Ahmed Elmorsy (Alexandria University, Egypt); 
Mohamed Nour (Alexandria University, Egypt)
Modulation Techniques for Communication via Diffusion in Nanonetworks
Mehmet Sukru Kuran (Bogazici University, Turkey); Huseyin Birkan Yilmaz (Bogazici 
University, Turkey); Tuna Tugcu (Bogazici University, Turkey); Ian F. Akyildiz (Georgia 
Institute of Technology, USA)
3D Location Estimation in Urban Cellular Systems Using the Overhearing Model
Nejla Ghaboosi (University of Sydney, Australia); Abbas Jamalipour (University of Sydney, 
Australia)
Impact of Region-Based Faults on the Connectivity of Wireless Networks in Log-normal 
Shadow Fading Model
Sujogya Banerjee (Arizona State University, USA); Arunabha Sen (ASU, USA)
Filling Gap between Discrete and Continuous Space Flow Models in Dense Wireless 
Networks
Sina Z. Anaraki (University of Maryland, College Park, USA); Mehdi Kalantari (University of 
Maryland, College Park, USA)
A Hidden Markov Model for Localization Using Low-End GSM Cell Phones
Moustafa Youssef (Egypt-Japan University of Science and Technology (E-JUST), Egypt); 
Mohamed Ibrahim (Nile University, Egypt)
A new architecture of wireless mesh networks based IEEE 802.11s directional antennas
Jalel Ben-othman (University of Versailles, France); Lynda Mokdad (Université de Paris 12, 
France); Mohamed Ould Cheikh (Lamsade Laboratory, France)
14:00 - 15:30
AHSM-17: Performance Modeling and Analysis
Room: B-2 
Chair: Jalel Ben-othman (University of Versailles, France)
14:00 An Analytical Model for IEEE 802.15.4 with Sleep Mode Based on Time-varying 
Queue
Zhuoling Xiao (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Chen He (Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, P.R. China); Lingge Jiang (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China)
14:18 Maximizing Capacity in the SINR model in Wireless Networks with Successive 
Interference Cancellation
Shaohe Lv (National University of Defense Technology, P.R. China); Weihua Zhuang 
(University of Waterloo, Canada); Xiaodong Wang (National University of Defense 
頁 51 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
15:12 Throughput Scaling in Cognitive Multiple Access Networks with Power and 
Interference Constraints
Ehsan Nekouei (University of Melbourne, Australia); Hazer Inaltekin (The University of 
Melbourne, Australia); Subhrakanti Dey (University of Melbourne, Australia)
CISS-12: Identification and Authenticaton
Room: 510 
Chair: Jun Shao (Zhejiang Gongshang University, P.R. China)
14:00 iCAPTCHA: The Next Generation of CAPTCHA Designed to Defend Against 3rd 
Party Human Attacks
Huy Truong (University of Central Florida, USA); Christopher Turner (Lockheed Martin 
Corporation, USA); Cliff Zou (University of Central Florida, USA)
14:18 HASVC: An Efficient Hybrid Authentication Scheme for Vehicular Communication
Huaqun Guo (Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore); Fan Yu (National University of 
Singapore, Singapore); Zonghua Zhang (Institut TELECOM, France); Wai-Choong Wong 
(National University of Singapore, Singapore); Maode Ma (Nanyang Technological 
University, Singapore); Yongdong Wu (Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore)
14:36 A Measurement Study of Attacks on BitTorrent Seeds
Prithula Dhungel (Polytechnic Institute of NYU, USA); Xiaojun Hei (Huazhong University of 
Science and Technology, P.R. China); Di Wu (Sun Yat-Sen University, P.R. China); Keith 
W. Ross (Polytechnic Institute of NYU, USA)
14:54 Towards Efficient Analysis for Malware in the Wild
Makoto Iwamura (NTT Information Sharing Platform Laboratories, Japan); Mitsutaka Itoh 
(NTT Corporation, Japan); Yoichi Muraoka (Waseda University, Japan)
15:12 In-Execution Malware Detection using Task Structures of Linux Processes
Farrukh Shahzad (nexGIN RC, FAST-NUCES, Pakistan); Sohail Bhatti (National University 
of Computer & Emerging Sciences, Pakistan); Muhammad Shahzad (nexGIN RC, FAST-
NUCES, Pakistan); Muddassar Farooq (Next Generation Intelligent Networks Research 
Center (nexGIN RC), Pakistan)
CTS-14: Network Coding
Room: 501 
Chair: Toshiaki Koike-Akino (MERL & Harvard University, USA)
14:00 On Code Parameters and Coding Vector Representation for Practical RLNC
Janus Heide (Aalborg University, Denmark); Morten Videbæk Pedersen (Aalborg University, 
Denmark); Frank H.P. Fitzek (Aalborg University, Denmark); Muriel Medard (MIT, USA)
14:18 Singularity Probability Analysis for Sparse Random Linear Network Coding
Xiaolin Li (HKUST, Hong Kong); Wai Ho Mow (Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, Hong Kong); Fai-Lung Tsang (None, Hong Kong)
14:36 Optimal Decoding Algorithm for Asynchronous Physical-Layer Network Coding
Lu Lu (The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Soung Chang Liew (The 
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Shengli Zhang (Shenzhen University, P.R. 
China)
14:54 r-Regular P2P Broadcast Networks: Optimal Delay and Throughput Using Network 
Coding
Amy Fu (Australian National University, Australia); Parastoo Sadeghi (The Australian 
National University, Australia)
15:12 Wireless Inter-Session Network Coding - An Approach Using Virtual Multicasts
Michael Heindlmaier (Technische Universität München, Germany); Desmond S Lun 
(Rutgers University, USA); Danail Traskov (Technical University of Munich, Germany); 
Muriel Medard (MIT, USA)
CTS-15: Cognitive Radio
Room: 509 
Chair: M. Cenk Gursoy (University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA)
14:00 Cyclic Feature based Wideband Spectrum Sensing using Compressive Sampling
Zhi Tian (Michigan Technological University, USA)
14:18 Performance of Eigenvalue-based Signal Detectors with Known and Unknown 
Noise Level
Boaz Nadler (Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel); Federico Penna (Politecnico di Torino, 
Italy); Roberto Garello (Politecnico di Torino, Italy)
14:36 On the Capacity of a Class of Cognitive Z-interference Channels
Jinhua Jiang (Stanford University, USA); Ivana Maric (Aviat Networks, USA); Andrea 
Goldsmith (Stanford University, USA); Shlomo Shamai (The Technion, Israel); Shuguang 
Cui (Texas A&M University, USA)
14:54 On the Capacity of Multiple-Access-Z-Interference Channels
Fangfang Zhu (Syracuse University, USA); Xiaohu Shang (Bell Labs, USA); Biao Chen 
(Syracuse University, USA); H. Vincent Poor (Princeton University, USA)
15:12 The Capacity of the Semi-Deterministic Cognitive Interference Channel and its 
Application to Constant Gap Results for the Gaussian Channel
Stefano Rini (UIC, USA); Daniela Tuninetti (University of Illinois at Chicago, USA); Natasha 
Devroye (University of Illinois at Chicago, USA)
CQRM-09: Service Oriented Networking
Room: G 
Chair: Krzysztof Walkowiak (Wroclaw University of Technology, Poland)
14:00 Identifying key features for P2P traffic classification
Silvio Valenti (TELECOM ParisTech, France); Dario Rossi (TELECOM ParisTech, France)
14:18 Towards Context-Aware Ubiquitous Transaction Processing: a Model and 
Algorithm
頁 53 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
14:18 Precoding Aided Iterative FDE for Reduced CP Single-Carrier Block Transmission 
Systems
Wei Han (Xi'an Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Qinye Yin (Xi'an Jiaotong University, P.R. 
China); Ang Feng (Xi An Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Ying Zhang (Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, P.R. China)
14:36 Low Complexity MIMO Precoder Design with LDLH Channel Decomposition
Chou Che-Chen (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Jen-Ming Wu (National Tsing Hua 
University, Taiwan)
14:54 Maximum SINR Prefiltering for Reduced-State Trellis-Based Equalization
Uyen Ly Dang (University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany); Wolfgang Gerstacker 
(University of Erlangen-Nuernberg, Germany); Dirk Slock (Eurecom, France)
15:12 Linear Dispersion Codes for Asynchronous Cooperative MIMO Systems
Nan Wu (Dalian Maritime University, P.R. China); Hamid Gharavi (NIST, USA)
SPC-11: Resource allocation -1
Room: 555 
Chair: Shigeru Shimamoto (Waseda University & Graduate School of Global Information and 
Telecommunication Studies, Japan)
14:00 Improved Loading Rule for FEXT Noise Impaired Users in Vectored VDSL Systems
Julien D Pons (Ikanos, USA)
14:18 Lagrange Multiplier Optimization for Optimal Spectrum Balancing of DSL with 
Logarithmic Complexity
Amir R. Forouzan (Katholieke Universitet Leuven, Belgium); Marc Moonen (Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven, Belgium)
14:36 A Fast Bit Removal Greedy Algorithm for Multiuser DMT-based systems
Hernan X. Cordova (Free University of Brussels, Belgium); Leo P. Van Biesen (Free 
University of Brussels, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium)
14:54 Max-Min Fairness Linear Transceiver Design for a Multi-User MIMO Interference 
Channel
Ya-Feng Liu (Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R. China); Yu-hong Dai (Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, P.R. China); Zhi-Quan Luo (University of Minnesota, USA)
15:12 Optimal QoS-constrained Resource Allocation in Downlink and Uplink Multicarrier 
Systems
Qing Bai (Technische Universität München, Germany); Josef A. Nossek (Technische 
Universität München, Germany)
WCS-33: MIMO III
Room: C-1 
Chair: Arlene A. Cole-Rhodes (Morgan State University, USA)
14:00 Near-far Resistant MIMO Iterative Receiver for Uplink LTE
Lukasz Krzymien (University of Alberta, Canada)
14:18 Training Sequence-aided QRM-MLD Block Signal Detection for Single-carrier MIMO 
Spatial Multiplexing
Tetsuya Yamamoto (Tohoku University, Japan); Kazuki Takeda (Tohoku University, Japan); 
Fumiyuki Adachi (Tohoku University, Japan)
14:36 On the Performance of Receive ZF MIMO Broadcast Systems with Channel 
Estimation Errors
Chu-Jung Yeh (National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan); Li-Chun Wang (National Chiao 
Tung University, Taiwan); Jwo-Yuh Wu (National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan)
14:54 A Near-Capacity GDFE-like Precoder with Reduced Feedback Overhead for MIMO 
Broadcast Channel
Sudhanshu Gaur (Hitachi America Ltd, USA); Long Gao (Hitachi America, Ltd, USA); 
Joydeep Acharya (Wireless Systems Research Lab, USA)
15:12 Two-Way Training Design for Discriminatory Channel Estimation in Wireless MIMO 
systems
Chao-Wei Huang (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Xiangyun Zhou (University of 
Oslo, Norway); Tsung-Hui Chang (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Yao-Win Peter 
Hong (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan)
WCS-34: Relay Systems VII
Room: C-2 
Chair: Ming Lei (NEC Laboratories, P.R. China)
14:00 Asymptotic Analysis for Nakagami-m Fading Channels with Relay Selection
Caijun Zhong (Queen's University Belfast, United Kingdom); Kai Kit Wong (University 
College London, United Kingdom); Shi Jin (Southeast University, P.R. China); Mohamed-
Slim Alouini (KAUST, Saudi Arabia); Tharmalingam Ratnarajah (Queens University of 
Belfast, United Kingdom)
14:18 Pseudo Exclusive-OR for LDPC Coded Two-Way Relay Block Fading Channels
Jianquan Liu (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Meixia Tao (Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, P.R. China); Youyun Xu (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China)
14:36 Maximum Likelihood Receiver for MMSE Relaying
Petra Weitkemper (DOCOMO Euro-Labs, Germany); Guido K E Dietl (DOCOMO Euro-
Labs, Germany)
14:54 Using Distributed Rotations for a Low-Complexity Dynamic Decode-and-Forward 
Relay Protocol
Charlotte Hucher (The Australian National University, Australia); Parastoo Sadeghi (The 
Australian National University, Australia)
15:12 Error Exponents for Multi-Source Multi-Relay Parallel Relay Networks with Limited 
Backhaul Capacity
Erhan Yilmaz (Institute Eurecom, France); Raymond Knopp (Institut Eurecom, France); 
David Gesbert (Eurecom, France)
頁 55 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Chang Hwan Park (Chung-Ang University, Korea)
Improvement of the Error Characteristics of an N-Continuous OFDM System with Low 
Data Channels by SLM
Masaya Ohta (Osaka Prefecture University, Japan)
Spectral Efficiency Degradation of Multicarrier CDMA due to Carrier Frequency Offset
Junaid Ahmed (University of Manchester, United Kingdom); Khairi A. Hamdi (University of 
Manchester, United Kingdom)
Average SNR and Ergodic Capacity of Reactive DF Relaying System with Outdated 
Channel State Information
Seok Jung Kim (Yonsei University, Korea); Sungsoo Park (Yonsei University, Korea); 
Hyunkee Min (Yonsei University, Korea); Daesik Hong (Yonsei University, Korea)
Spectrum Sharing between Cooperative Relay and Ad-hoc Networks: Dynamic 
Transmissions under Computation and Signaling Limitations
Yin Sun (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Xiaofeng Zhong (Tsinghua University, P.R. 
China); Yunzhou Li (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Shidong Zhou (Tsinghua University, 
P.R. China); Xibin Xu (Tsinghua University, P.R. China)
Effective Cooperative ARQ Protocols with the Opportunistic Selective AF Relaying: The 
Perspectives of Outage versus Packet Error Probabilities
Chun-Kai Tseng (National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan); Sau-Hsuan Wu (National Chiao 
Tung University, Taiwan)
Optimal Space-Time Power Allocation in MIMO Rician fading channels with Ideal 
Channel State Information
Mohammed Zafar Ali Khan (Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, India); Uday Desai (I 
I T Bombay, India)
System Performance of Clustered DFT-S-OFDM Considering Maximum Allowable 
Transmit Power
Takashi Iwai (Panasonic Mobile Communications R&D Lab. Co., Ltd., Japan); Atsushi 
Matsumoto (Panasonic Mobile Communications R&D Lab. Co., Ltd, Japan); Shinsuke 
Takaoka (Panasonic corporation, Japan); Yoshihiko Ogawa (Panasonic Corporation, 
Japan); Akihiko Nishio (Panasonic Corporation, Japan); Daichi Imamura (Panasonic 
Corporation, Japan)
Optimal Resource Pricing Coercing Social Behavior in Wireless Networks
Hanna Bogucka (Poznan University of Technology, Poland)
Power and Subcarrier Allocation for Physical-Layer Security in OFDMA Networks
Xiaowei Wang (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Meixia Tao (Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University, P.R. China); Jianhua Mo (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); 
Youyun Xu (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China)
An Advanced CSMA/CA System for Wide Area Broadband Wireless Access
Kaoru Sano (Tokyo Denki University, Japan); Hiroshi Kobayashi (Tokyo Denki University, 
Japan); Osamu Moriya (Toshiba Corporation, Japan)
HARQ Feedback for Carrier Aggregation in LTE-A TDD
Li Zhang (Nokia Siemens Networks, P.R. China); Peng Chen (Nokia Device R&D, P.R. 
China); Peter Skov (Nokia Siemens Networks, P.R. China)
BAN Communication Quality Assessments Using an Arm-Waving Dynamic Phantom 
Replicating the Walking Motion of a Human
Naotake Yamamoto (Panasonic Corporation, Japan)
Blind and Semiblind Channel Estimation for Single-Carrier Block Transmission Systems 
Using Few Received Blocks
Wen-Jun Zeng (Xiamen University, P.R. China); Xilin Li (University of Maryland Baltimore 
County, USA); En Cheng (Xiamen University, P.R. China)
Magneto-Inductive Underground Communications in a District Heating System
Soroush Afkhami Meybodi (Aalborg University, Denmark); Jens Nielsen (Aalborg University, 
Denmark); Jan Bendtsen (Aalborg University, Denmark); Mischa Dohler (CTTC, Spain)
Joint TX/RX Analog Linear Transformation for Maximizing the Capacity at 60 GHz
Jimmy Nsenga (CETIC, Belgium); Andre Bourdoux (IMEC, Belgium); Wim Van Thillo (IMEC, 
Belgium); Valery Ramon (Centre d'Excellence en Technologies de l'Information et de la 
Communication (CETIC), Belgium); François Horlin (Université Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium)
Choosing Optimum Noise Figure and Data Rate in Wireless Sensor Network Radio 
Transceivers
Ramen Dutta (University of Twente, The Netherlands); Ronan Zee (University of Twente, 
The Netherlands); Mark J. Bentum (University of Twente, The Netherlands); Andre Kokkeler 
(University of Twente, The Netherlands)
Experimental Evaluation of Analog Joint Source-Channel Coding in Indoor 
Environments
José A. García-Naya (University of A Coruña, Spain); Óscar Fresnedo (University of A 
Coruña, Spain); Francisco J. Vazquez-Araujo (University of A Coruña, Spain); Miguel 
González-López (Universidad de A Coruña, Spain); Luis Castedo (University of A Coruña, 
Spain); Javier Garcia-Frias (University of Delaware, USA)
Throughput Enhancement of a Random Access WLAN by Combination of Digital and 
Analog Network Coding
Farid Ashtiani (Sharif University of Technology, Iran); Farzaneh Farhadi (Sharif University of 
Technology, Iran)
WNS-17: Wireless Multicast Service
Room: J 
Chair: Sanaa Sharafeddine (Lebanese American University, Lebanon)
14:00 Successive Refinement Relaying Strategies in Coded Wireless Multicast Networks
James Ho (University of Waterloo, Canada); James She (University of Cambridge, United 
Kingdom); Pin-Han Ho (University of Waterloo, Canada)
14:18 Opportunistic Multicast Scheduling With Resource Fairness Constraints in Cellular 
Networks
Wei Liu (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Lingchen Zhu (Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, P.R. China); Xinbing Wang (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Hui Yu 
(Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Mohsen Guizani (WMU, USA)
14:36 Optimizing Multicast Delay with Switched Beamforming in Wireless Networks
頁 57 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Xi Chen (Harbin Institute of Technology, P.R. China); Cheng Li (Memorial University of 
Newfoundland, Canada); Weixiao Meng (Harbin Institute of Technology, P.R. China); 
Zhongzhao Zhang (Harbin Institute of Technology, P.R. China)
CRN-13: Security and Other CRN Topics II
Room: 103 
Chair: Yueling Che (Nanyang technological University, Singapore)
15:50 Spectrum Leasing via Cooperation for Enhanced Physical-Layer Secrecy
Keonkook Lee (Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Korea); Osvaldo 
Simeone (New Jersey Institute of Technology, USA); Chan-Byoung Chae (Yonsei 
University, USA); Joonhyuk Kang (KAIST, Korea)
16:08 Spectrum Stealing via Sybil Attacks in DSA Networks: Implementation and Defense
Yi Tan (Stevens Institute of Technology, USA); Kai Hong (Stevens Institute of Technology, 
USA); Shamik Sengupta (John Jay College of Criminal Justice, City University of New York, 
USA); Koduvayur P Subbalakshmi (Stevens Institute of Technology, USA)
16:26 Transmission Throughput of Decentralized Overlaid Networks with Outage 
Constraints
Chengzhi Li (North Carolina State University, USA); Huaiyu Dai (NC State University, USA)
16:44 On the Dissemination Latency of Cognitive Radio Networks Under General Node 
Mobility
Lei Sun (NC State University, USA); Wenye Wang (NC State University, USA)
17:02 On the Gain of Vertical Cooperation in Cognitive Radio Networks
Liping Wang (Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden); Viktoria Fodor (KTH, Sweden)
CRN-12: Resource Allocation and Opportunistic Access III
Room: H 
Chair: Hong Ji (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China)
15:50 Propagation of Spectrum Preference in Cognitive Radio Networks: A Social 
Network Approach
Husheng Li (University of Tennessee, USA); Chien-fei Chen (Research , USA); Lifeng Lai 
(University of Arkansas, Little Rock, USA)
16:08 Cognitive Multi-Channel MAC Protocols with Perfect and Imperfect Sensing
David Tung Chong Wong (Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore); Shoukang Zheng 
(Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore); Ying-Chang Liang (Institute for Infocomm 
Research, Singapore)
16:26 Dynamic Spectrum Auction Based on Coexistent Matrix
Bochao Shen (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Chengnian Long (Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University, P.R. China); Cailian Chen (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); 
Xinping Guan (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Qian Zhang (Hong Kong 
University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong)
16:44 IEEE 802.11ac: Dynamic Bandwidth Channel Access
Minyoung Park (Intel Corporation, USA)
17:02 Statistical Prediction of Spectrum Occupancy Perception in Dynamic Spectrum 
Access Networks
Miguel López-Benítez (Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, Spain); Ferran Casadevall 
(Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, Spain)
CISS-13: Physical Layer Security
Room: 510 
Chair: Susana Sargento (Instituto de Telecomunicações, Universidade de Aveiro, Portugal)
15:50 Secure Communication Through Nakagami-m Fading MISO Channel
Md. Zahurul Sarkar (Queen's University Belfast, United Kingdom); Tharmalingam 
Ratnarajah (Queens University of Belfast, United Kingdom)
16:08 An Efficient Caching Mechanism for Network-based URL Filtering by Multi-level 
Counting Bloom Filters
Yi-Hsuan Feng (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan); Nen-Fu Huang (National Tsing Hua 
University, Taiwan); Chia-Hsiang Chen (National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan)
16:26 Identity Theft Detection Based on Neural Network Non-Linearity Identification in 
OFDM System
Filippo Meucci (University of Florence, Italy); Laura Pierucci (University of Florence, Italy); 
Neeli Rashmi Prasad (Center for TeleInFrastructure (CTIF), Denmark)
16:44 Secure MAC-Layer Protocol for Captive Portals in Wireless Hotspots
Jihyuk Choi (University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA); Sang-Yoon Chang 
(University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA); Diko Ko (Seoul National University, 
Korea); Yih-Chun Hu (University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA)
17:02 SNEED: Enhancing Network Security Services Using Network Coding and Joint 
Capacity
Salah A Aly (Princeton University, USA); Nirwan Ansari (NJIT, USA); H. Vincent Poor 
(Princeton University, USA)
CISS-14: Network Security
Room: 554 
Chair: Bertrand Marquet (Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs France, France)
15:50 A Novel Comprehensive Network Security Assessment Approach
Chunlu Wang (Beijing Post and Telcommunication University, P.R. China); Yancheng Wang 
(Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. China); Yingfei Dong (University 
of Hawaii, USA); Tianle Zhang (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, P.R. 
China)
16:08 MI: Cross-Layer Malleable Identity
頁 59 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
NGNI-13: Content Delivery Networks III
Room: 104 
Chair: Gwendal Simon (Institut Telecom - Telecom Bretagne, France)
15:50 Content-based Detection and Prevention of Spam over IP Telephony - System 
Design, Prototype and First Results
Dirk Lentzen (Cologne University of Applied Sciences, Germany); Gary Grutzek (Cologne 
University of Applied Sciences, Germany); Heiko Knospe (Cologne University of Applied 
Sciences, Germany); Christoph Pörschmann (Cologne University of Applied Sciences, 
Germany)
16:08 Understanding User Generated Content Characteristics: A Hot-Event Perspective
Li Guodong (Xi'an Jiaotong University, P.R. China); Miao Wang (UNL, USA); Jie Feng 
(University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA); Lisong Xu (University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA); 
Byrav Ramamurthy (University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA); Wei Li (Xi'an JiaoTong 
University, P.R. China); Xiaohong Guan (Xi'an Jiaotong University, P.R. China)
16:26 Limitations on the effectiveness of decentralized incentive mechanisms
Michel Meulpolder (Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands); Johan A. Pouwelse 
(Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands); Dick Epema (Delft University of 
Technology, The Netherlands); Henk J. Sips (Delft University of Technology, The 
Netherlands)
16:44 Modeling BitTorrent-Based P2P Video Streaming Systems in the Presence of NAT 
Devices
Zhonghua Wei (University of Victoria, Canada); Jianping Pan (University of Victoria, 
Canada)
17:02 Content Routers: Fetching Data on Network Path
Walter Wong (State University of Campinas, Brazil); Marcus Vinícius Lahr Giraldi (University 
of Campinas, Brazil); Maurício Ferreira Magalhães (State University of Campinas, Brazil); 
Jussi Kangasharju (University of Helsinki, Finland)
SPC-12: Resource allocation - 2
Room: 555 
Chair: Jiangzhou Wang (University of Kent, United Kingdom)
15:50 Optimal Sensing and Power Allocation Strategy for an Efficient Cognitive Radio 
System
Stergios Stotas (King's College London, United Kingdom); Nallanathan Arumugam (King's 
College London, United Kingdom)
16:08 Adaptive Rate Allocation Scheme for Uplink TH-UWB Networks
Philippe Mary (European University of Brittany, INSA, IETR, France); Inbar Fijalkow (ETIS, 
CNRS, ENSEA, UniversityCergy-Pontoise, France); Charly Poulliat (University Cergy-
Pontoise, France)
16:26 The Achievable Rate of the Training-Based MIMO System over Time-Varying 
Fading Channels: A BCRB Perspective on Channel Tracking
Lin-Kai Chiu (National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan); Sau-Hsuan Wu (National Chiao 
Tung University, Taiwan)
16:44 Optimal Power Allocation over a fading MAC with varying observation SNRs in 
resource constrained wireless sensor network
Muralishankar R (CMR Institute of Technology, India); Shankar H N ((i) CMR Institute of 
Technology, Bangalore, India); Aniketh Venkat (PES Institute of Technology, India); 
Manisha Sinha (PES Institute of Technology, India)
17:02 multicast secrecy rate maximization for MISO channels with multiple multi-antenna 
eavesdroppers
Qiang Li (The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Wing-Kin Ma (The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong)
WCS-38: Multiuser MIMO II
Room: C-1 
Chair: Sumei Sun (Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore)
15:50 Adaptive Codebook Based Channel Prediction and Interpolation for Multiuser 
MIMO-OFDM Systems
Jiang Chang (Polytechnic Institute of New York University, USA); I-Tai Lu (Polytechnic 
Institute of NYU, USA); Yingxue Li (InterDigital Comm LLC, USA)
16:08 User Selection for Multiuser MIMO Systems Based on Block Diagonalization in 
Wide-Range SNR Environment
Riichi Kudo (NTT Corporation, Japan); Yasushi Takatori (NTT Network Innovation 
Laboratories, Japan); Tomoki Murakami (NTT Corporation, Japan); Masato Mizoguchi 
(Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, Japan)
16:26 Rate Balancing Based Linear Transceiver Design for Multiuser MIMO System With 
Multiple Linear Transmit Covariance Constraints
Kanapathippillai Cumanan (Loughborough University, United Kingdom); Jie Tang 
(Loughborough University, United Kingdom); Sangarapillai Lambotharan (Loughborough 
University, United Kingdom)
16:44 Hybrid Single/Multi-User MIMO Transmission Based on Implicit Channel Feedback
Katsutoshi Kusume (DOCOMO Euro-Labs, Germany); Karim Khashaba (Munich University 
of Technology, Germany); Guido K E Dietl (DOCOMO Euro-Labs, Germany); Wolfgang 
Utschick (Technische Universität München, Germany)
17:02 Hybrid Diversity Maximization Precoding for the Multiuser MIMO Downlink
Farhan Khalid (University of Stuttgart, Germany); Joachim Speidel (University of Stuttgart, 
Germany)
WCS-39: Network Coding II
Room: C-2 
Chair: Satoshi Konishi (KDDI R&D Laboratories Inc., Japan)
頁 61 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
Linglong Dai (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Zhaocheng Wang (Tsinghua University, 
P.R. China); Changyong Pan (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Sheng Chen (University of 
Southampton, United Kingdom)
16:44 Fault Tolerant Fingerprint-based Positioning
Christos Laoudias (University of Cyprus, Cyprus); Michalis P Michaelides (University of 
Cyprus, Cyprus); Christos Panayiotou (University of Cyprus, Cyprus)
17:02 Sequential Compressive Target Detection in Wireless Sensor Networks
Haifeng Zheng (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Shilin Xiao (Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University, P.R. China); Xinbing Wang (Shanghai Jiaotong University, P.R. China)
WNS-19: Resource Management
Room: J 
Chair: Telex Magloire N Ngatched (University of Manitoba, Canada)
15:50 DNS-based Solution for Operator Control of Selected IP Traffic Offload
Konstantinos Samdanis (NEC Europe Ltd., Germany); Tarik Taleb (NEC Europe Ltd., 
Germany); Stefan Schmid (NEC Europe Ltd., Germany)
16:08 Regulating Wireless Access Pricing
Kwan Fong Leung (The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Jianwei Huang (The 
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong)
16:26 Opportunistic Feedback Scheme in OFDMA Systems with Imperfect Uplink 
Channels
Mohamad Assaad (Supelec, France); Hamidou Tembine (Supelec, France); Naveed Ul 
Hassan (Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology, Pakistan)
16:44 Efficient Anchor Power Allocation for Location-Aware Networks
William Wei-Liang Li (The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Yuan Shen 
(Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA); Ying Jun (Angela) Zhang (The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong); Moe Win (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
USA)
17:02 Mobile Group based Location Service Management for Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks
Hyunje Woo (Universty of Ewha womans, Korea); Meejeong Lee (Ewha Womans University, 
Korea)
WNS-20: Wireless Relay Networks
Room: K 
Chair: Patrick Marsch (Nokia Siemens Networks, Poland)
15:50 Capacity of Cooperative Ad Hoc Networks with Heterogeneous Traffic Patterns
Hui Liu (Shanghai Jiao Tong University, P.R. China); Xinbing Wang (Shanghai Jiaotong 
University, P.R. China)
16:08 A Probabilistic Bundle Relay Strategy In Two-Hop Vehicular Delay Tolerant 
Networks
Maurice J. Khabbaz (Concordia University, Canada); Wissam Fawaz (LAU, Lebanon); 
Chadi Assi (Concordia University, Canada)
16:26 Optimal Relaying in Heterogeneous Delay Tolerant Networks
Yong Li (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Zhaocheng Wang (Tsinghua University, P.R. 
China); Depeng Jin (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Li Su (Tsinghua University, P.R. 
China); Lieguang Zeng (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Sheng Chen (University of 
Southampton, United Kingdom)
16:44 Channel-hole Based Cooperative Scheduling in Multiple Relay Systems
Yan Li (ENSIIE, France); Yacine Ghamri-Doudane (Université Paris-Est (LIGM Lab) & 
ENSIIE, France)
17:02 Energy Detection based Signal-Time Coding for AWGN Relay Networks
Ke Xiong (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Pingyi Fan (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); 
Yunquan Dong (Tsinghua University, P.R. China); Zhengding Qiu (, P.R. China); Khaled 
Ben Letaief (Hong Kong University of Science & Technology, Hong Kong)
 
>> Page Top 
 
 
 
  
  
 
IEEE/IEICE 2011 | PAST CONFERENCES 
頁 63 / 63ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan
2011/4/28mhtml:file://M:\研究\ICC2011\ICC2011 @ Kyoto, Japan.mht
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳永芳 計畫編號：99-2221-E-008-039- 
計畫名稱：以正交分頻多工系統為基礎之多使用者功率控制研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
