 2
題目：運用知識管理技術建置問題導向學習之網路教育訓練系統 
計畫編號: NSC94－2213－E－025－003 
計畫主持人：王淑玲 
隨著資訊科技與網際網路技術之蓬勃發展，採用 e-learning 來執行企業教育訓練，促進
組織學習和知識分享已成為企業知識創新與管理之趨勢。雖然目前有關 e-learning 的資訊技
術已日漸成熟，然而許多企業仍缺乏有效的 e-learning 推行模式。尤其，在課程與教材設計
方面，因為缺乏有效的教材知識獲取方法(knowledge acquisition approach, KA)，以致無法有
效地發揮 e-learning 之建置效益。因此，本研究擬整合認知作業之分析技術﹝cognitive task 
analysis, CTA﹞、案例推理法﹝case-based reasoning, CBR﹞、知識管理﹝knowledge 
management, KM﹞方法，以萃取、分類與組織教材知識，並且以問題導向學習策略
(problem-based learning strategy, PBL)來規劃訓練教材，進而運用網路多媒體技術設計符合
人員認知需求之數位化內容，建置電子化網路教育訓練平台。最後經由人因工程之研究方
法評估在問題導向學習策略下之故障組態辨識訓練方式在時間壓力下對於故障診斷績效之
影響。相關研究結果可作企業建構 e-learning 系統之參考。 
關 鍵 詞：知識管理(KM)，人因工程，e-learning，案例推理法(CBR)，問題導向學習策略
(PBL)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
1.前言 
知識經濟時代下，人力智慧資本的生產力遠大於有形資產之生產力，尤其隨著網際網
路與資訊技術之蓬勃發展，企業在面臨全球化競爭下，不斷尋求快速而又有效的知識累積
與傳承方式，已成為企業致勝的關鍵。由於 e-training 系統具備許多的優點，包括降低學習
成本、強化業務反應能力、可將企業知識轉換成一致性的數位教材、可即時更新以及隨時
學習等特點，這些特點對於企業發展人力資源與建構知識社群有很大的幫助。由於，企業
在進行專業技術人才(例如維修人員)訓練時往往需要投入相當長的訓練時間，以及人力與物
力。因此，如何運用適當的策略來發展 e-training 系統，以有效訓練員工問題解決與專業維
修技能，是值得重視的研究議題。 
    本研究以飛機發動機維修為實例，採取問題導向學習策略(PBL)為基礎，並且運用案例
推理演算法，建置電子化網路教育訓練平台。由於問題導向學習方式結合了發現學習
(discovery learning)與個案研究(case-study)等學習特性，而此種學習特性符合實務工作以及
問題解決上的目標，因此在 1970 年至 1980 年間漸漸被推廣應用到許多範圍，包括商業、
法律、診斷、教育、醫藥學、科學、諮商等訓練領域﹝Friedman & Deek, 2002; Greening, 1998; 
Glasgow, 1996; Camp, 1999; Koschmann, Kelson, Feltovitch, & Barrows, 1996; Bridges & 
Hallinger, 1995; Sher, Stepien, & Workman, 1995; Wilkerson & Feletti, 1989 ; Yeung, Au-Yeung, 
Chiu, Mok, & Lai, 1999﹞。問題導向學習以明確、系統性之步驟，循序漸近地引導學習者學
習(Friedman & Deek, 2002; Edens, 2000; Cooke, & Alavi, 1995)，可培養學習者歸納技巧與問
題解決技能，提供學習者深度學習的機會(Evensen & Hmelo, 2000; Lau, & Talbot, 1999; 
Marsh, 1999; Hmelo, Gotterer, & Bransford, 1997; Walton & Matthews, Savery & Duffy, 1995; 
Gallagher, Stepien, , & Rosenthal, 1992) 。相較於傳統的教師為中心的學習型態，問題導向
學習者較強調以學習者為中心，為 e-learning 提供一個可行學習方案。 
具體而言，本研究以 PBL 基礎規劃整體 e-training 系統之流程架構，並且運用案例推理
(CBR)演算法，以發展一個具有知識內容管理效能之 e-training 系統。另一方面，為了有效
獲取維修案例的經驗知識，以設計問題導向的故障維修訓練教材，本研究首先運用認知作
業分析技術(CTA)蒐集與彙整維修案例知識，建立教材資料庫。為了強化訓練效果，本研究
 6
3. CBR 演算法 
由於 CBR 演算法適用於解決複雜和動態的問題與決策，因而被廣泛地應用在知識管理
或決策輔助系統的建構方面，目前已發展出許多領域之應用系統，其應用的層次從規劃、
診斷到設計逐漸廣泛而深入，在實務上已具有一定的驗證效果。 
 採用 CBR 演算法進行推理演算，主要是一個知識發現的過程，為了能夠檢索到適當
的案例知識，CBR 機制需要對照新案例的特性與案例庫中暨有案例特性的相似條件。在本
研究中主要是採用Kolodner在1993年所提出來的“neatest-neighbor (NN) approach＂來計算
兩兩案例間之相似度﹝similarities﹞，此相似度通常正規化為 0~1 的範圍，其計算相似度的
公式則說明如下﹝Maher & Allen, 1987; Kolonder & Simpson, 1989; Kolonder, 1991; Kolonder, 
1993; Leake, 1996; Zhang & Yang, 2001, Lee & Luo, 2002 ﹞： 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                     
圖 2.1 案例相似度比較說明範例 
由圖 2.1 所示，可瞭解比較既有案例與新案例如何符合 NN 法則，在兩維的屬性空間下，case 
C 即被評選為最鄰近的案例(the nearest neighbor)因其相似度 similarity(New case, case C)> 
similarity(New case, case A)以及 similarity(New case, case B)。 
至於，案例比對，相似度分析及案例調整則於案例推理引擎中執行，有關 CBR 之推理
循環機制如圖 2.2 所說明。而 CBR 的推理流程之詳細步驟則說明如下﹝Kolonder & 
Simpson，1989﹞： 
1.首先選定索引指標，決定指標屬性，以辨識問題。 
2.選取案例，藉由相似性法則，將案例庫中與此問題類似之案例擷取出來。 
Similarity (new Case, Case C)
Similarity (new Case, Case A)
Similarity (new Case, Case B)
New Case
Case A
Case C
Case B
Attribute 1
A
ttribute 2
A
ttribute 2
 8
學習評量資料庫學習評量資料庫 學習歷程資料庫學習歷程資料庫教材案例知識庫教材案例知識庫
教材知識獲取模組
‧故障組態辨識
訓練教材獲取
‧故障案例推理
訓練教材獲取
‧案例屬性相似
度評比
故障組態辨識訓練
‧故障問題呈現
‧故障組態辨識
‧故障元因診斷
PBL 學習資源管理模組
故障案例推理訓練
‧案例知識檢索
‧故障維修技巧
線上測驗模組
教材與學習管理模組
學習輔助工具
Web伺服器
學習記錄回饋模組
維修專家/訓練中心管理者/ 學員
Server
Client
 
圖 4.1、CBR 網路教育訓練系統架構圖(本研究) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 4.2、系統功能規劃圖(本研究) 
網路學習系統
系
統
公
告
區
線
上
測
驗
教
材
知
識
擷
取
學
習
資
源
管
理
學
習
工
具
區
個
人
工
具
箱
系
統
管
理
相
關
網
站
信
件
選
單
引擎維修
相關消息
引擎維修
訓練目標
討論與意見
分享區
Q&A
故障診斷
題庫
故障診斷
線上測驗
系統可用
性測試問卷
飛機引擎維
修基本原理
編輯輸入
程序式故障
知識教材
獲取
功能式故障
知識教材
獲取
多重故障
知識教材
獲取
飛機引擎維
修基本原理
教材呈現
(HTM)
程序式故障
知識教材
檢索與呈現
(互動式網頁)
學
習
資
源
管
理
模
組
功能式故障
知識教材
檢索與呈現
(互動式網頁)
多重故障
知識教材
呈現
修改個人 ]
資料
更改密碼
個人學習
記錄
系統功能
切換
重新啟動
系統
系統離開
學員資料
更動
相關網站
資訊網頁
寄信給
站長
故障問題
屬性辨識
訓練
(Flash)
網路教育訓練系統
發動機維
修消息
發動機維
修訓練
目標
線
上
測
驗
模
組
多重故障
知識教材
呈現
教材與學習管理模組
學習輔助工具
教材案例知識獲取模組 教材與學習管理模組
教材與學習管理模組
 
 10
4.3 案例推理訓練教材 
   本研究以「案例」表達飛機發動機維修的基本知識元素。依據布魯納的「發現學
習說﹝discovery learning﹞」，主張結構是構成知識的基本元素，因為具結構性的知識單
元較容易理解，也較容易被傳遞與分享，而且經學習之後能產生較長期之學習記憶。本
研究以「案例」作為表達飛機維修知識之基本元素，至於有關案例知識表達方面，回顧
許多研究者採用不同的表達方式來描述「案例」，例如 Kolodner(1993)採用「問題
﹝problems﹞」、「解決方案﹝solutions﹞」、以及「結果﹝outcomes﹞」等三個部份來表達
案例知識。而本研究在案例知識表達方面除了規範一標準化的表達格式以外，另一方面
提供知識獲取模組與介面以允許彈性地表達非結構性的知識﹝ unstructured 
knowledge﹞，並且透過多媒體方式呈現。因此，本研究之案例知識表達方式包括以下四
部份﹝如圖 4.3 案例知識表達方式﹞： 
(1).案例屬性指標部份，用以檢索案例知識之特徵指標，亦即用來描述飛機故障維修案例
之故障特徵部份，此部份以標準化的格式以文字來加以描述。 
(2).案例解答部份，分為兩部份，一部份是描述故障發生原因 ，此部份主要是以標準格
式來表達；另一部份則是描述故障排除或維修方法，此部份則以 HTML 檔案加以記
錄，有關這部份的知識描述則運用數位內容技術來建構相關知識內容，知識描述方式
包括：以文字說明、流程圖、聲音檔、影像、以及動畫加以呈現。每一個故障案例如
何解決以及故障排除流程步驟與方法避免以標準化格式記錄，而採用 HTML 編輯與
記錄以增進知識描述與表達上的彈性，此外，亦有利於更新維護以及呈現效果 
(3).結果回饋部份，此部份主要以文字描述的方式記錄故障排實際操作狀況，以及使用該
案例解決問題之結果回饋。 
(4).案例屬性相似性評比部份，此部份乃是由飛機維修專家透過知識獲取模組進行案例屬性
相似度評比所獲得的案例相似度矩陣值，並儲存於資料庫中，以作為推理演算之依據。 
 
 
 
 12
有助於診斷能力的提升。因此，本研究運用多媒體動畫方式呈現發動機故障辨識之數位化
訓練教材，希望此教材訓練來強化人員故障辨識能力，教材內容呈現畫面如圖 4.5 所示。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 4.5 組態辨識決策過程(Klein, 1992) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 4.6 發動機故障辨識訓練教材 
 
5.系統評估 
為了評估所發展的 CBR e-training system 之可用性，本研究藉由實驗方式，來驗證系統
所提供之故障組態辨識訓練對於故障異常偵測績效之影響。 
 
 
 
 14
(3).正式實驗進行前，首先要求受試者進行訓練前之 pre-test，並且記錄於系統中。 
(4).正式實驗開始時，實驗測試系統會隨機呈現測試題目於電腦螢幕上，受試者根據實驗測
試系統所呈現的故障問題，逐一偵查故障部位。實驗進行中每格五秒鐘會發出警告聲以
營造時間壓力的情境。 
(4).如步驟 3，受試者需要反覆回答所有的測試題目，一直到所有的題目均測試完成。 
(5).實驗完成，最後要求受試者針對所使用的網路教育訓練系統，填寫一份線上可用性評估
問卷。 
 
6. 結果與討論 
6.1 故障偵測時間(The fault detection time) 
由表 6.1 故障偵測時間之變異數分析表(ANOVA)顯示，兩組受試者在故障偵測上所花的時
間有顯著的差異效果 (F1,628=4.386, p<0.05)，接受故障組態辨識訓練組(train1) 的受試者所
花的故障偵測時間顯著地比未接故障組態辨識訓練組(train2)之受試者所花的故障偵測時間
短，變異數分析結果如表 6.1 所示。  
表 6.1 故障偵測時間之變異數分析表(ANOVA) 
Source of variation Sum of d.f. Mean square F-value Pr>F 
type of training 286.706 1 286.706 4.386* 0.037
Error 41049.365 628 65.365   
Total 62425.000 630    
*p<0.05 
6.2 故障偵測正確率(The fault detection correct rate) 
由表 6.2 故障偵測正確之變異數分析表(ANOVA)顯示, 兩組受試者在故障偵測之正確率亦
有顯著的差異效果(F1,628=6.482, p<0.05)，接受故障組態辨識訓練組(train1)受試者的故障偵
測之正確率顯著地比未接故障組態辨識訓練組(train2)之受試者的故障偵測之正確率高，變
異數分析結果如表 6.2 所示。 
 16
4. Bridges, E. M. & Hallinger, P.: Implementing problem-based learning in leadership 
development.Eugene: University of Oregon, ERIC Clearinghouse on Educational Management. 
(1995) 
5. Barrows, H. & Kelson, A.: Problem-based learning: A total approach to 
education. Monograph. Springfield, Illinois: Southern Illinois University School of Medicine. 
(1993) 
6. Barrows, H.S.: How to Design a Problem-based Learning Course for the Pre-clinical Years. 
New York: Springer Publishing Company. (1985) 
7. Camp, S. D.: Do inmate survey data reflect prison conditions? Using surveys to assess prison 
conditions of confinement. The Prison Journal, Vol. 79, No. 2 (1999) 250-268 
8. Davis, F.D.: Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, and User Acceptance of Information 
Technology, MIS Quarterly (13:3), September (1989) 319-340 
9. Dunker, K.: On problem solving. Psychological Monographs, 58. (1945) 
10. Edens, K. M.: Preparing problem solvers for the 21st century through problem-based learning. 
College Teaching, Vol. 48, No. 2 (2000) 55-61 
11. Evensen, D. H., & Hmelo, C. E.: Problem-based learning: A research perspective on learning 
interactions. Mahwah, New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. (2000) 
12. Friedman, R.S. and Deek, F.P.: Problem-based learning and problem-solving tools: synthesis 
and direction for distributed education environments, Journal of Interactive Learning 
Research, Vol. 13, No. 3 (2002) 239–257 
13. Greening, T.: Scaffolding for success in PBL., Medical Education Online, Vol. 3 (1998) 
14. Glasgow, N. A.: New curriculum for new times: A guide to student-centered,  
problem-based learning. Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin Press. (1996). 
15. Gallagher, S.A., Stepien, W.J., & Rosenthal, H.: The effects of problem-based learning on 
problem solving. Gifted Child Quarterly, Vol. 36, No. 4 (1992) 195-200. 
16. G. Klein.: Decision making in complex military environments. Klein Associates,Fairborn, OH: 
 18
presented at 1st Asia-Pacific Conference on Problem-based Learning, Hong Kong. (1999). 
29. Subramanian, S.: Qualitative Multiple-Fault Diagnosis of Continuous Dynamic Systems 
Using Behavioral Modes. Ph.D. Dissertation, Department of Computer Science, University of 
Texas, Austin,TX. Also appears as Arti_cial Intelligence Laboratory Technical Report AI 
95-239 and at URL ftp://ftp.cs.utexas.edu/pub/mooney/papers/qdocs-dissertation-95.ps.Z. 
(1995). 
30. Tyler, R. W.: Basic principles of curriculum andinstruction. Chicago: University of Chicago 
Press. (1949). 
31. Wilkerson, L., & Feletti, G..: Problem-based learning: One approach to increasing student 
participation. In: A.F. Lucas (Ed.), The department chairperson’s role in enhancing college 
teaching. New Directions for Teaching and Learning, Vol. 37, (1989) 51–60. 
32. Yeung, E., Au-Yeung, S., Chiu, T., Mok, N. & Lai, P.: Application of Problem-based Learning 
Strategies to Enhance Clinical Reasoning and Self-directed Learning Skills in a University 
Physiotherapy Programme. Paper presented at the First Asia Pacific Conference on 
Problem-based Learning, Hong Kong, (1999) 95-105. 
33. Zhang, Z., and Yang, O.: Feature Weight maintenance in Case Bases Using Introspective 
Learning. Journal Of Intelligent system, Vol. 16, No. 2, (2001) 95-116. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20
附錄一、投稿論文 
The 36th CIE Conference on Computers & Industrial Engineering 
 
Applying knowledge management technique in constructing enterprise web-based training 
system 
 
Shu Ling Wang1     Chun Yu Hsieh2 
Institute of Computer Science and Information Technology 
Management Science Department 
National Taichung Institute of Technology, Taiwan, ROC 
shulin@ntit.edu.tw    u941149@yahoo.com.tw 
 
Abstract 
With the booming of informational technology and Internet development, it is a trend in knowledge creation and 
management for enterprises to apply e-learning in their educational training. Though the information technology of 
e-learning has matured, many enterprises are lacking in effective e-learning program models. Particularly, because 
of the shortage of an effective knowledge acquisition approach to the curriculum and teaching material design, the 
effectiveness of e-learning is limited. The purpose of this study is to integrate the cognitive task analysis (CTA), 
case-based reasoning (CBR), and knowledge management (KM) approach to acquire, classify and organize the 
domain knowledge. More importantly, the case-based reasoning e-training system for troubleshooting was 
implemented. Results from the research can serve as references for enterprise e-training system construction. 
KEY WORDS : knowledge management (KM), e-training, case-based reasoning (CBR),ontology 
 
1. Introduction 
21st century is the era of knowledge-economics; knowledge and intellectual properties has become the core 
value of enterprises. Increasingly the knowledge and skills of employees are seen as valuable assets that may be 
utilized in order to gain competitive advantage. Thought the information technology of e-learning has matured, 
many enterprises are lacking in effective e-training model. The purpose of this study attempts to integrate the 
knowledge management technique and case-based reasoning approach to propose a Web-based CBR training model 
for constructing enterprise e-training system. Through e-learning, enterprises can choose suitable training content, 
learning service provider (LSP), and learning content provider (LCP) or build up the learning platform themselves. 
In either way, e-learning makes it possible for personnel to learn and advance on their own paces, reaching the 
effect of self-discipline. On the other hand, e-learning is an educational training that features cost effectiveness. 
Though the information technique related to e-learning is getting mature, many enterprises are lacking in effective 
e-learning promotion system. Particularly, because of the shortage of efficient knowledge acquisition approach 
(KA), the effectiveness of e-training cannot be reached in the curriculum and material design. However, in 
developing an e-training system, we need to take into consideration whether the information technique and 
knowledge content meet the requirements of practical problem solution. In this study, a CBR approach and 
 22
3. Case-based reasoning 
3.1 The application of CBR 
CBR is an artificial intelligence (AI) problem-solving approach which has widely been applied in software 
reuse, logistics, process planning and assessment (Spalazzi, 2001; Carswell, Wilson, & Bertolotto, 2002). Schank 
(1982) and Riesbeck and Schank (1989) pioneered the case-based reasoning technique and proposed that it could 
serve as an alternative to the more traditional rule-based and model-based reasoning techniques. CBR simulates the 
human problem-processing model and features the self-learning function by constant accumulation of past 
experience. More importantly, the methods for case retrieval, reuse, solution testing, and learning are summarized, 
and their actual realization is discussed in the light of a few example systems that represent different CBR 
approaches (Aamodt, and Plaza, 1994). MEDIATOR (Kolonder & Simpson, 1989) first adopted this model and 
used previous experience to solve the conflicts between two contradictory problems. After that, case-based 
reasoning techniques have been applied in various domains (Hammond, 1989). Some of them are caterering, recipe 
making, dispute mediation, criminal sentencing, process planning (Yang, Lu, and Li, 1992), fault diagnosis (Liao, 
Zang, & Mount, 2000), a black-based Expert system for process design of injection moulding (Kwong & Simth, 
1998), on-line services to help desk application (Göker & Roth-Berghofer, 1999), design and implementation of 
knowledge management (Lau, Wong, Hui, & Pun, 2003; Wang & Hsu, 2004), prediction of information systems 
out sourcing success ( Hsh, Chiu, & Hsh, 2004), Customer and market plan (Changchien & Lin, 2005; Chiu, 2002), 
scheduling and process planning (Chang, Dongm Liu, & Lu, 2000), architecture design (Heylighen & 
Neuckermans, 2001), customer relationship management (Choy, Lee, & Lo, 2003), financial management and 
forecasting (Shin & Han,1999; Chun & Park, 2005), and procurement selection system (Luua,, Ng, Chen, Jefferies, 
2006). Obviously, CBR has been successfully applied in various fields and can solve some more complicated 
problems even though the information is not sufficient. Particularly, CBR is able to reach its self-learning 
capability through retrieving people’s experiential knowledge and memory. Baumeister, Atzmuller, and Puppe 
(2002) pointed out that through the natural knowledge acquisition process, the obtained CBR systems would 
promote the natural knowledge acquisition process, so that cases can be used for decision support. In this study, the 
CBR approach will be used to build up the knowledge database for an e-training system to enrich the database of 
teaching materials for enterprises.  
3.2 The CBR process 
Watson (Watson, 1997) described four REs for the mental process in CBR: (1) Retrieve the most similar 
case(s); (2) Reuse the case(s) to attempt solving the problem; (3) Revise the proposed solution if necessary; and (4) 
Retain the new solutions a part of a new case. Fig. 2 presents a CBR cycle. Initially, a new problem enters the CBR 
system, and one or more similar cases are retrieved when the case base is queried. If any matching case is 
employed for the solution, it goes into the ‘reuse’ cycle, and provides a proposed solution for the new case or 
problem. After solving the problem, if the new case does not match closely previous cases in the case base, the 
final solution is revised as a confirmed solution, and the new case is retained in the case base. The case base thus 
grows through new case added. 
 
 
 24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 The structure of the web-based e-training system 
4.1 The case knowledge representation 
The diagnosis and trouble-shooting of the aircraft engine was used as an example for e-training system 
developing. Through expert interviews and collection of the maintenance training materials, the knowledge 
database is built up. There are four parts of the descriptions for the e-training materials: (1) case descriptions of 
case features, (2) reasons for malfunctions, (3) diagnosis procedures, (4) feedbacks of the trouble-shooting 
procedures. This is shown in Fig. 4.1.  
                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.1 The descriptions of case knowledge 
4.2 The organization and classification of case knowledge 
In applying the training courses of e-training system, the trainee first needs to search for the training material 
through the case knowledge retrieval interface, which is a domain concept hierarchy of engine trouble-shooting 
knowledge at different maintenance stages by an object-oriented ontology. In a top down manner, the building of 
the domain concept hierarchy starts from the higher abstract layers to the lower concrete ones, forming a tree 
structure. Based on the domain concept hierarchy, the case knowledge is then further organized and classified. 
According to current manual of airplane maintenance, the procedure-oriented classification structure is adopted in 
this study. The results of the classification of case knowledge are presented in a parent-child level way in three 
hierarchies. In the procedure-oriented tree structure, three layers of the domain concept hierarchy includes (1) 
malfunctions of the operation of the airplane, (2) the operating conditions, and (3) fault situations.  
4.4 Case knowledge retrieval  
In this study, the building, retrieval, and inference of the content of e-training system is based on the 
calculation of the similarity among case knowledge through the Case-based reasoning (CBR) technique. Through 
Case
Library
Ontology
Database
CBR Engine i e
CBR Back-end ac -e
WWW Server
CBR Front-end r t-e
Interface Client
Knowledge maple ge a
WWW
 26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.1 the architecture of the e-training system. 
The interfaces of these modules are briefly introduced as follows: 
(1) the user interface of e-training system 
In learning the case knowledge, the trainee can retrieve specific cases through the tree structure of the case 
classification subsystem. The system will automatically feedback the inference output. Centered on the chosen case, 
cases highly related will be displayed in a topological manner. By clicking at the node in a case, the trainee can 
browse all the detailed materials of the trouble-shooting knowledge. The user interface is shown in Fig. 5.2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.2 the user interface of CBR e-training system  
(2) The Case-based Reasoning Engine 
When the user inputs a feature of cases, the system will automatically process the inference algorithm and list cases 
whose similarities are higher than the threshold value. These cases are accessible for trainee to learn the 
trouble-shooting knowledge in a systematical way.  
(3) The Case Library 
In the case library, each case can be accessed through the index according to the property. In the database, the fault 
diagnosis and trouble shooting knowledge is covered. Figure 4.2 shows the format for the description content. In 
addition to the descriptive knowledge for maintenance, multimedia or graphic illustrations are also offered for the 
 
Clicking the node will 
prompt detailed trouble 
shooting training materials 
The topological graphic 
of the CBR inference 
output 
The tree structure of 
the case knowledge 
Training centerraining center traineetrainee
The Learning Management Systeme earning a age ent yste
Web servereb server
the learning content management module 
Knowledge
acquisition module
Case Libraryase ibrary Ontology Librarytology ibrary Evaluation Recordvaluation ecord
on-line evaluation
Server
Client
The editing of  
tree structure
of the case knowledge
 28
 
Fig. 5.5 the interface of knowledge sharing  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.6 the screen for learning evaluation  
 (6). the on-line e-book browsing 
Through the on-line browsing function, the trainee can navigate the common procedure for maintenance and 
trouble shooting tasks.  
6. Conclusions  
   In the current personnel training for airplane maintenance, there are always thick and heavy manuals. When the 
maintenance personnel face unusual conditions, they are not able to respond effectively and make the decisions for 
trouble-shooting. The professional knowledge in this domain is accumulated through personnel’s experiences for 
years. Such kind of knowledge is obliged to lose when some experienced maintenance personnel leave the 
company. Therefore, developing a web-based training system that consists of the comprehensive knowledge for 
trouble-shooting is indispensable. It will not only shorten the adaptation period for fault diagnosis but also achieve 
the goal of effective trouble-shooting training. In this study, the trouble-shooting of aircraft engine is used an 
example for developing a web-based e-training system through applying knowledge engineering and CBR 
technique. The user can adjust their own paces to access and learn the related knowledge and enrich their skills of 
trouble-shooting. However, an experimental study is needed to evaluate the effectiveness of such e-training systems 
in the future. 
 
Acknowledgements 
This research was sponsored by research grants form National Science Council (NSC) of ROC 
Taiwan (NSC 94-2213-E-025-003).  We would like to Thanks to the National Science Council and the 
trouble-shooting engineers of Aerospace Industrial Development Corp. 
 
Reference 
Aamodt, A. & Plaza, E. (1994). Case-Based Reasoning: Foundational Issues, Methodological Variations and 
System Approaches. AI Communications,7(1), 39-59. 
Carswell, J. D., Wilson, D. C., & Bertolotto, M. (2002). Digital Image Similarity for Geo-spatial Knowledge 
Management. In: Case-Based Reasoning: 6th European Conference, ECCBR 2002, Aberdeen, Scotland, UK, 
September 4-7(pp.58-72).  
Changchien, S. Wesley, & Lin, Ming-Chin (2005). Design and implementation of a case-based reasoning system 
＊若滑油壓力表顯示滑油壓力
大於46psi以上(在黃線或紅線
上)，即代表為何?
1. 滑油壓力過低
2. 滑油壓力過高
3. 富油狀況發生
4. 貧油狀況發生
 30
engineers, ASCE, 3-14. 
Michell, J. (2001). Teaching and misteaching measurement in psychololgy. Australian Psychologist, 36(3), 
211-217. 
Riesbcck, C.K., & Schank, R.C. (1989) Inside Case-Based Reasoning, Lawrence Eribaum Associates, Hillsdale, 
NJ. 
Schand, Roger. (1982). Dynamic Memory: A Theory of Learning in Computers and People, Cambridge University 
Press, Cambridge, England. 
Shin, K. S. & Han, I. (1999). Case-based reasoning supported by genetic algorithms for corporate bond rating. 
Expert Systems with Applications, 16(2), 85-95. 
Spalazzi, L. (2001). A survey on case-based planning. Artificial Intelligent Review, 16, 3-36. 
Watson, I. (1997). Applying Case-Based Reasoning: techniques for enterprise systems. Morgan Kaufmann 
Publishers Inc. San Francisco, CA. 
Wang, S. L., & Hsu, S. H. (2004). A Web-based CBR knowledge management system for PC troubleshooting. 
International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, 23(7/8), 532-540. 
Zhang, Z., & Yang, O., (2001). Feature Weight maintenance in Case Bases Using 
Introspective Learning. Journal Of Intelligent system, 16(2), 95-116. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 32
Developing a CBR e-training system based on the Problem-based learning strategy 
Shu Ling Wang1  Chun Yu Hsieh2  Shang Hwa Hsu3 
1, 2 Institute of Computer Science and Information Technology 
National Taichung Institute of Technology, Taichung, Republic of China 
shulin@ntit.edu.tw     
3 Institute of Industrial Engineering, National Chiao Tung University 
Abstract. With the booming of informational technology and Internet development, it is a trend in knowledge creation and 
management for enterprises to apply e-learning in their training program. Thought the information technology of e-learning 
has matured, many enterprises are lacking in effective e-training program model. Particularly, because of the shortage of an 
effective knowledge acquisition approach to the curriculum and teaching material design, the effectiveness of e-learning is 
limited. The purpose of this study attempts to integrate the cognitive task analysis (CTA), case-based reasoning (CBR), and 
knowledge management (KM) approach to acquire, classify and organize the domain knowledge. More importantly, the 
problem-based learning strategy (PBL) will be used for curriculum planning with an aim at designing digital contents for the 
web-based training platform. At last, through an experiment, the fault diagnosis performance of pattern-recognition training 
offered in the training system will be conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the system under time stress. Results from 
the research can serve as references for enterprises ‘s e-training system construction. 
Keywords: e-training system, case-based reasoning (CBR), problem-based learning strategy (PBL), usability, knowledge 
management (KM). 
1   Introduction 
In the era of Knowledge-economics, the productivity of human intelligence capital has more important than the productivity of 
tangible assets; particularly accompany with the development of internet and information technology, enterprises have been 
continuously finding the effective ways for knowledge accumulation which has became the critical factor for improving 
competitions. Since e-training system has many advantages, including lowering learning costs, enhancing business reaction 
abilities, transforming business knowledge into consistent digital teaching materials and instant update and learning at any time. 
These advantages are very helpful to the developments of human resources and knowledge community construction to 
enterprises.  As training professional technical personnel, for example, technician for an enterprise usually need to put into 
long term efforts, finance and material resources. Therefore, how to apply appropriate strategies to develop e-training system 
for effectively training employees to have professional maintenance skills and problem solving abilities are the important 
research issues should be concerned. Since PBL has been integrated discovery learning and case-study which are compatible 
with the goals of the task and problem resolving of real world, therefore, PBL has been gradually applied in many training 
fields including business, law, diagnosis, education, medication, science and consultation from 1970 to 1980.[12], [13], [14], 
[7], [19], [4], [1], [31], [32]. The definitive, systematical steps of PBL guiding learners gradually study in the proper sequences 
[12], [10], [2], which cultivate inductive reasoning skills and problem resolving ability and providing a depth –learning 
opportunity to learners. [11], [26], [28], [17], [15]. Comparing with the traditional learning module, teachers are as the core of 
learning, but PBL is more learners oriented that providing a workable learning program for e-learning. The purpose of this 
study attempts to integrate the cognitive task analysis (CTA), case-based reasoning (CBR), and knowledge management (KM) 
approach to acquire, classify and organize the domain knowledge. More importantly, the problem-based learning strategy 
(PBL) will be used for curriculum planning with an aim at designing learning contents of airplane engine troubleshooting for 
the web-based training platform. For strengthened the training effectiveness, this research designed the content of training by 
animation of multi-media and via interactive interface operation, the learner can proceeding self-learning activities. The major 
components of CBR e-training system included as follows: (1) case-based knowledge database; (2) knowledge acquisition 
module; (3) learning content management module; (4) learning assistance module; (5) knowledge sharing. 
2   Problem-based learning strategy 
There are many practical modules of PBL, Barrow(1985)[6], the pioneer of PBL initial advocated the five stages of PBL 
 34
The purpose of this study attempts to integrate the cognitive task analysis (CTA), case-based reasoning (CBR), and knowledge 
management (KM) approach to acquire, classify and organize the domain knowledge. More importantly, the problem-based 
learning strategy (PBL) will be used for curriculum planning with an aim at designing learning contents of airplane engine 
troubleshooting for the web-based training platform. Adopting pattern recognition theory programmed the training materials of 
troubleshooting which match the cognitive demands of trouble-shooting technicians via digital materials of multi-media design, 
at the end, establishing CBR e-training platform. The functional modules of CBR e-training platform including:(1) case-based 
knowledge database; (2) knowledge acquisition module; (3) learning content management module; (4) learning assistance 
module; (5) knowledge sharing. The detailed systematic structure is shown in Figure, 4.1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.1 The architecture of the e-training system 
4.2   The training materials management of diagnosis 
As technicians who must be through a series of cognitive activities to finish diagnosis and maintenance task.  In case of 
reaching the mission of trouble-shooting, they are not only need to possess engineering knowledge but also having the 
cognitive skills of maintenance. Duncker(1945)[9] classified the broad sense of trouble-shooting task into following four basic 
steps: (1) Detection; (2) The testing of fault reason; (3) Testing; (4) Maintenance and evaluation. As technicians must pass 
through a series of cognitive activities to proceeding trouble-shooting, the phenomenon of over-burdened mental workload is 
used to be happened. For this reason, the development of training system must be considered the difficulties and cognitive 
demands of technicians and providing appropriate training courses for enhancing their problem resolving ability. In the CBR 
e-training system, we apply PBL learning content management module for managing the contents of fault pattern recognition 
materials. The case knowledge is the essence of the e-training system. The description of the cases focuses on the problem 
features and symptoms. Three components constitute the learning content management module: the training resource 
management module, the case knowledge library, and the knowledge acquisition module.  
The contents of fault pattern recognition materials for learning content management module had been established which 
contained: CBR approach training materials, fault pattern recognition materials and trouble-shooting e-book, etc. 
4.3   Fault pattern recognition materials  
Training centerr i ing cent r traineetrai
The Learning Management Systemh  rni  ent S ste
Web server ser r
the learning content management module 
Knowledge
acquisition module
Case Librarys  Li r ry Ontology Librarytol  i r r Evaluation Recordluati  rd
on-line evaluation
Server
Client
The editing of  
tree structure
of the case knowledge
 36
making (Klein,1993;Klein,1992)[23]as Figure 4.3, during the process of making decision, people commonly collect 
information for diagnosis activities from past experience and knowledge, particularly some experienced decision makers 
usually applied own expertise and experiences for resolving the problems. However, for novices, via the faulty pattern 
recognition training which can strengthen the abilities of detection and recognition to conquer fault states and it is helpful to 
promote the diagnosis ability. Therefore, this research applied the multi-media animation to present the digital training 
materials of engine fault detection, it is anticipated that enhancing fault recognition ability to technicians, the presented 
contents of teaching materials are shown in Figure 4.4. 
 
 
 
Figure 4.4 The training contents of fault pattern recognition 
5   Evaluation the effect of e-training system 
5.1   Experimental design  
To further examine the usability of CBR training system developed in the study, an experiment was conducted to check the 
performance of the training effects of the e-training system. The training objects of this research are the beginners or general 
technicians; so the subjects are university students (15 males, 15 females); totally 30 persons, which be random appointed into 
one training situations for accepting the course. 
Experimental asparagus: Two PETIUM 4 multimedia PCs (19-inch VGA) and one Server (HP Server LH30) are used to take 
down the experimental data. In the test, the subject can freely manipulate the e-training system by using the mouse. The task 
time and answers are taken down simultaneously. After all tests are done, a usability questionnaire will be prompted for 
subjects to fill in. When subjects finish and submit the survey, it will be taken down in the system.  
Independent measures: The independent measures include two types of fault detection training: The type of training is via 
papers reading for Train 1; the type of Train 2 was trained by the screen of fault pattern recognition training system for 
proceeding fault detection under CBR e-training system. 
  ‧ Fault pattern recognition training (train1): providing the learning curriculum of fault pattern recognition and proceeding 
fault pattern recognition training. The interface of the system is shown in Figure 4.1.  
‧ Non fault pattern recognition training (train2): providing the learning curriculum of fault pattern recognition, but not offer 
the fault pattern recognition training. 
5.2   Dependent measures 
 38
7   Conclusion 
This study integrated the technology of knowledge management and the method of Case-Based Reasoning (CBR) for further 
developing e-training system, through the example of maintenance of airplane engine that applied problem-based learning 
strategy (PBL) for designing digital teaching materials which is anticipated to enhance fault pattern recognition, diagnosis 
performance. At present, CBR training teaching material, fault pattern recognition training material and trouble-shooting 
e-book had been completed; at the same time, evaluating the effects of fault pattern recognition training material for fault 
detection performance. As a result, it had been found that providing fault pattern recognition training is helpful to enhance fault 
detection performance. In the future, the other training materials and systems will be tested. 
 
Acknowledgements 
This research was sponsored by research grants form National Science Council (NSC) of ROC Taiwan (NSC 
94-2213-E-025-003).  We would like to Thanks to the National Science Council and the trouble-shooting engineers of 
Aerospace Industrial Development Corp. 
 
References 
1.   A. Sher, BT, Stepien, WJ, & Workman, D.: Implementing problem-based learning in science classrooms. School science and 
mathematics [0036-6803] Gallagher  
Vol. 95 (1995) 136-146 
2.   Alavi C & Cooke M. In: Alavi C (ed) 1995 Problem-based learning in a health sciences curriculum. Routledge, London. (1995) 
3.   Adam, D.A., Nelson,R.R., and Todd, P.A.: Percieved Usefullness, Ease of Use and Usage of Information Technology : A Replication, 
MIS Quartly. (16:2), (1992) 227-250 
4.   Bridges, E. M. & Hallinger, P.: Implementing problem-based learning in leadership development.Eugene: University of Oregon, ERIC 
Clearinghouse on Educational Management.     (1995) 
5.   Barrows, H. & Kelson, A.: Problem-based learning: A total approach to 
education. Monograph. Springfield, Illinois: Southern Illinois University School of Medicine. (1993) 
6.    Barrows, H.S.: How to Design a Problem-based Learning Course for the Pre-clinical Years. New York: Springer Publishing Company. 
(1985) 
7.  Camp, S. D.: Do inmate survey data reflect prison conditions? Using surveys to assess prison conditions of confinement. The Prison 
Journal, Vol. 79, No. 2 (1999) 250-268 
8.   Davis, F.D.: Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, and User Acceptance of Information Technology, MIS Quarterly (13:3), 
September (1989) 319-340 
9.   Dunker, K.: On problem solving. Psychological Monographs, 58. (1945) 
10. Edens, K. M.: Preparing problem solvers for the 21st century through problem-based learning. College Teaching, Vol. 48, No. 2 (2000) 
55-61 
