   
 2
中文摘要 
   推導色差公式需要由心理物理實驗所測量的色彩辨別橢圓。本計畫使用一台由紅綠藍發光二
極體背光的液晶顯示器進行實驗，使得在心理物理實驗中能顯示高飽和度色塊，以測量高飽和色
彩的辨別橢圓，並得以研究適用於廣色域顯示器的色差公式。由於實驗需要小於色差0.05 (以
CIEDE2000為單位)的色塊，本計畫提出一種空間信號抖動方法，使得實驗所用的顯示器之位元數
得以等效地增加。顯示器的紅綠藍信號為24位元(單原色信號為8位元)。本計畫定義一個含有9個
像素的超像素，加在這9個像素的紅綠藍信號可以依據需要而不同。如果此超像素的視角小於1分
弧度，由於人眼的敏銳度限制，人眼不能分辨此超像素中的9個像素之細節。利用這個特性，本
計畫可以對於一單原色產生256×9= 2304個亮度階，也就是相當於有11位元的單原色信號，或33
位元的紅綠藍信號。使用這個空間信號抖動方法，本計畫對17位觀察者進行心理物理實驗。測量
數據與文獻中原始的MacAdam橢圓做比對，結果是相符的。本計畫顯示高飽和度色彩辨別橢圓的
測量結果，其色彩飽和度超越文獻中的數據。實驗結果顯示CIEDE2000色差公式不僅在高色彩飽
和度區域不精確，在中色彩飽和度區域也不夠精確。因此，需要發展新版的色差公式，使得人眼
視覺對所感知的色差差異之描述能更精確。 
 
關鍵字：色差公式，色彩辨別橢圓，廣色域顯示器。 
 
Abstract 
The derivation of color difference formula requires the chromaticity discrimination ellipses 
measured from psychophysical experiment. We use a wide-color-gamut (WCG) LCD backlit with RGB 
LEDs for displaying high saturation color patches in the psychophysical experiment so that the 
chromaticity discrimination ellipses of high saturation colors can be measured and the color difference 
formula for high saturation color can be studied. Because the color patches with less than 0.05 color 
difference in unit of CIEDE2000 are required in the experiment, we propose a spatial-dithering method 
for the WCG LCD so that the bit depth of the LCD can be effectively improved. The RGB signal of the 
WCG LCD in the experiment is 24-bit (8 bits for each primary signal). For the WCG LCD, we define a 
super-pixel comprising 9 pixels. The applied RGB signals of the 9 pixels can be different and are given 
as required. If the viewing angle of the super pixel is less than 1 minute of arc, the details of the 9 pixels 
cannot be observed owing to the visual acuity of human eye. By utilizing this property, we are able to 
generate 256×9=2304 levels for a primary, which effectively corresponds to 11-bit primary signal or 33-
bit RGB signal. Psychophysical experiment with 17 observers is taken by the use of this spatial-
dithering method. The experimental results are checked with the original MacAdam ellipses in literature 
and the agreement is well. The chromaticity discrimination ellipses with color saturation beyond the 
color saturation of measured data sets in literatures are shown. Experimental result shows that 
CIEDE2000 is not an accurate color difference formula not only in high color saturation region but also 
in medium color saturation region. Therefore, the development of new version of color difference 
formula is necessary so that the perceptual color difference of human vision can be more accurately 
described. 
 
Keyword: color difference formula, chromaticity discrimination ellipse, wide-color-gamut display 
 
   
 4
                
 
 
 
 
2. Experimental Setup 
Figure 1 shows the side views of the experimental setup. The setup is surrounded by black cloth for 
avoiding the reflection of surrounding environment lighting from the display screen. The observer views 
screen through an aperture of 20 cm ×10 cm on the black cloth facing the screen. The distance between 
the observer and screen is 2 m so that the viewing angle extended from the observer to the color patches 
shown on screen is 2° and the viewing angle extended from the observer to a super-pixel defined by 
spatial-dithering method is less than 1 minute of arc. The color patches are shown in Fig. 2, in which the 
diameter of the color patches is 3.49 cm and the left and right half circles are reference and test color 
Figure 2: Color patches for psychophysical 
experiment. In screen center, the left and right 
half circles are reference and test color patches, 
respectively. 
Figure 1: Side view of experimental setup. 
Figure 3: Chromaticity triangle of the WCG LCD, in which the chromaticity triangles of HDTV and 
NTSC are also shown for comparison. 
   
 6
be shown in the next section. Therefore the display of more bit depth is required for measuring 
chromaticity discrimination ellipses. Figure 4 also shows the case with 33-bit RGB signal (11 bits per 
color channel), in which the maximum color differences of all signals among their neighboring signals 
defined in Eq.(1) are almost less than 0.2 and the color difference is small enough for measuring 
chromaticity discrimination ellipses. The proposed spatial-dithering method is used to improve the 
effective bit depth of the display. 
We define a super-pixel comprising 9 pixels arranged as is shown in Fig. 5 so that we are able to 
show a RGB signal with (R+r/9, G+g/9, B+b/9), in which R, G, B , r, g, and b are integers; 0≦ R, G, B < 
255; 0< r, g, b< 9. Taking the case with R= 50, G= 100, B= 150, r= 2, g=4, and b= 6 as an example, in 
each super-pixel, we may randomly assign the red signals of the 9 pixels so that they comprise two 51 
and seven 50, the green signals of the 9 pixels so that they comprise four 101 and five 100, and the blue 
signals of the 9 pixels so that they comprise six 151 and three 150. If the viewing angle of the super-
pixel is less than 1 minute of arc, the details of the 9 pixels cannot be observed owing to the visual 
acuity of human eye. By utilizing this property, we are able to generate 256×9= 2304 levels for a 
primary, which effectively corresponds to 11-bit primary signal or 33-bit RGB signal. 
 
 
4. Results 
For a given reference color, test color patches are prepared along the lines crossing the reference 
color coordinates. The slant angles of the lines with respect to positive horizontal axis (x axis) are in step 
of 22.5° from  0° to 337.5°. Figure 6 also shows the distribution of the just discernible color coordinates 
for the 17 observers, in which the reference color coordinates are (x,y)= (0.475,0.3). The statistics of the 
color differences (in unit of 00EΔ ) between the just discernible colors and reference color for the cases 
shown in Fig. 6 are shown in Fig. 7. From Fig. 7, we can see that the color differences vary from 0.1 to 
1.5. Thus, it requires the color difference between successive test color patches to be at least less than 
0.05. From Fig. 4, we can see that the display with 33-bit RGB signal is required for this psychophysical 
experiment. The use of spatial-dithering method is necessary for the display with only 24-bit RGB signal. 
Figure 8 shows seven chromaticity discrimination ellipses measured from the psychophysical 
experiment, in which the ellipses are enlarged tenfold so that they can be clearly shown. In Fig. 8, there 
are four checking chromaticity discrimination ellipses, in which their reference color coordinates are 
chosen to be the same as four reference colors of original MacAdam ellipses [2]. According to 
Figure 7: Statistics of the color difference of the 
just discernible colors shown in Fig. 6 and the 
reference color at  (x,y)= (0.475,0.3). 
Figure 6: Distribution of the just discernible color 
coordinates of 17 observers for the red reference 
color at (x,y)= (0.475,0.3). 
   
 8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9 shows the measured chromaticity discrimination ellipses for the cases shown in Fig.8, in 
which the ellipses are represented in CIELAB and are enlarged fourfold so that they can be clearly 
shown. The corresponding ellipses with 00EΔ = 1 are shown in red lines for comparison. We can see that 
the gray chromaticity discrimination ellipse with 00EΔ =1 is nearly circular and the lengths of its axes are 
close to that of the measured corresponding chromaticity discrimination ellipse. However, the axis 
lengths of other six chromaticity discrimination ellipse with 00EΔ =1 are longer than that of 
corresponding measured ellipses. It is noticed that the orientations of the chromaticity discrimination 
ellipses with 00EΔ =1 are very different from that of corresponding measured ellipses in red and blue 
regions. Experimental result shows that CIEDE2000 is not an accurate color difference formula not only 
in high color saturation region but also in medium color saturation region. 
 
 
5. Conclusions 
Figure 9: Measured chromaticity discrimination ellipses for the cases shown in Fig.8, in which 
the ellipses are represented in CIELAB and are enlarged fourfold so that they can be clearly shown. 
The corresponding ellipses with 00EΔ = 1 are shown in red lines for comparison, which are also 
enlarged fourfold.  
1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助團隊參與國際學術組織會議報告 
                                             98 年 6 月 10
日 
 
報告人姓名 
 
溫盛發 
 
服務機構
 
中華大學 
 
職稱 
 
教授 
中文：資訊顯示器學會 2009 國際學術會議  
會議正式名稱 
英文：Society for Information Display (SID) 2009 International Symposium
會 議 時 間       自 96 年 5 月 31 日至 96 年
6 月 5 日 
地點（國、州、城市） 
 
美國，德州，San 
Antonio (聖安東尼) 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
 
二、 與會心得 
 
三、 考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略） 
 
四、 建議事項 
 
五、 其他 
 
 
3 
 
對這篇論文感興趣者相當多，值得一提的是 Samsung 的 Fundamental Technology Group 1 LCD 
Division 的首席研究員 Bonghyun You 深感興趣，仔細詢問論文細節。發表壁報論文的好處是，透
過現場展示在壁報上的論文內容，作者可以直接跟與會人士做更深入的討論，溝通效果要比口頭
報告與大會安排的 Author Interview 的效果好。 
 
二、與會心得 
2000 年以來，平面顯示器的發展出乎意料的快速。以本人對中大尺寸 LCD 顯示器的觀察，第
一波熱潮的動力是幾年前的電腦監視器換機潮，第二波動力是正在進行中的家庭電視機換機潮。未
來第三波動力的來源是多樣化的，例如高色彩飽和度顯示器(如 OLED TV 與使用 RGB LED 背光的
LCD)，電子紙，薄型電視，觸控式螢幕，與立體顯示器等。儘管家庭電視機換機潮將在這幾年完成，
第三波的動力將是推向特殊應用市場。例如高色彩飽和度顯示器提供前所未有的視覺經驗，電子紙
取代報紙書籍，薄型電視作為壁掛電視(Wall TV)，觸控式螢幕用於互動顯示器。立體顯示器看似還
早，不過其國際標準已在制訂中，若制訂完成將加速立體顯示器進入消費者市場的進度。這一波波
的成長動力將支持平面顯示器未來十年以上持續的發展。不過在世界各大公司以大量資源的努力
下，其中主要的關鍵技術近期幾年內應會被陸續開發出來。由會議中 Samsung 所發表的論文觀察，
Samsung 顯示出主導高色彩飽和度顯示器與立體顯示器國際規格的雄心，Samsung 具體提出一些技
術方案，未來若 Samsung 如願以償，將不利台灣顯示器產業與其競爭。因此開發主要關鍵技術競賽
所剩的時間不多，台灣產官學界短時間內應挹注更多資源，以免在競賽中落後。否則不是產業喪失
商機，便是將來要付出鉅額權利金，損失難以估計。 
 
 
三、建議事項 
1. 鑑於上述與會心得，台灣產官學界應設法投入更多資源，加強顯示器技術開發。 
 
2. 本人在會議報告論文中所提出的多重工作模式顯示器的概念，值得國內相關業者參考。 
 
四 、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 會議論文集。 
 
 
P-34 / S. Wen 
 
2. Color Device Model 
The color device model of a RGBW display can be 
represented by a 3×4 chromaticity matrix [6] 
r g b n
r g b n
r g b n
R
X X X X TX
G
Y Y Y Y TY
B
Z Z Z Z TZ
N
⎡ ⎤⎡ ⎤⎡ ⎤ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦
,  (1) 
where Xi, Yi, and Zi are the maximum tristimulus values of 
the i primary, and i= r, g, b, and n for red, green, blue, and 
neutral primaries, respectively; T is the maximum 
transmittance of neutral sub-pixels and 0≦  T ≦ 1; R, G, B, 
and N are the normalized linear signals for red, green, blue, 
and neutral primaries, respectively, and 0≦  R, G, B, N ≦ 1. 
The factor T is used to limit the light output from neutral 
sub-pixels for adjusting the color gamut size and power 
consumption for a given white luminance value Yw. The 
factor T can be controlled by the applied voltages of neutral 
sub-pixels. 
 In Eq.(1), the maximum tristimulus values are functions 
of RGB LED powers. We take Per, Peg, and Peb as the total 
electrical powers of red, green, and blue LEDs, respectively. 
Taking Y stimulus as an example, we have 
, ,
( ) ( ) ( )
( )
j im
i j j ej
j r g b j
S F y dKY C P
m A S d
λ λ λ λγ ηπ λ λ==
∫∑ ∫ ,  (2) 
where i= r, g, b, and n; Km= 683 lm/Watt; γ  is the aperture 
ratio; m= 4 for the display with four primaries; A is the display 
area in unit of m2; Cj, η j and Sj(λ ) are the coupling efficiency 
to the display output except for the absorption of color filters, 
power conversion efficiency, and spectral power density of the 
corresponding LED, respectively; Fi(λ ) is the transmission 
spectrum of the corresponding color filter and Fn(λ )= 1 for 
neutral sub-pixels. The X and Z stimulus values in terms of 
RGB LED powers are the same as Eq.(2) except that the color 
matching function ( )y λ  is replaced by ( )x λ  and ( )z λ , 
respectively. We can solve for Per, Peg, and Peb by substituting 
the functions of X, Y, and Z stimulus values in terms of Per, Peg, 
and Peb into Eq.(1), and applying the white point condition. The 
total required electrical power Pet= Per + Peg + Peb. The white 
point of HDTV color standard (ITU-R BT. 709) is illuminant 
D65, which is also assumed in this paper. 
   The spectral power densities of RGB LEDs and 
transmission spectra of color filters assumed in this paper 
are shown in Fig. 1. The LED spectral power densities and 
filter transmission spectra are taken from [7] and [8], 
respectively. Figure 2 shows the chromaticity triangle of 
RGB LEDs and the chromaticity triangles of RGBW LCDs, 
in which the cases with T= 0% and 100% are shown for 
RGBW LCDs. Chromaticity triangles of HDTV and D65 
white point are also shown for comparison. It is noticed that 
the color coordinates of RGBW primaries depend on T 
because Per, Peg, and Peb change with T. However, the 
dependence is slight as is shown in Fig. 2. The red and green 
primaries are more saturated than the red and green LEDs 
because the filtering effect of color filters. 
3. Display Color Gamut Size 
Display industries usually represent the color gamut of a 
display with the chromaticity triangle in the CIE xy 
chromaticity diagram or CIE u v′ ′ chromaticity diagram. 
However, the color gamut of a display is a 
three-dimensional volume in a perceptual color space, e.g., 
CIELAB. The two-dimensional chromaticity diagrams 
cannot accurately represent a display color gamut. For 
example, the color gamut of RGBW LCDs changes with the 
maximum transmittance T as is shown later but this fact 
cannot be shown in Fig. 2. Thus, we represent the color 
gamut of the considered display in CIELAB color space. 
The color gamut size is represented with discernible color 
number instead of chromaticity triangle area in the following 
[9,10]. Discernible color number represents the number of 
discernible colors as defined based upon calculations with 
the CIE94 color difference formula in CIELAB color space. 
Color gamut of a RGBW LCD is calculated from Eq.(1) [6]. 
We take the discernible color number ratio (DCNR) to 
represent the relative gamut size of the display color gamut 
with respect to the HDTV color gamut [10]. DCNR= Nd/ NHDTV, 
where Nd and NHDTV are the discernible color numbers of the 
display and HDTV color gamuts, respectively. NHDTV = 
199,491. The part of the display color gamut within the HDTV 
color gamut is called the effective display color gamut because 
only this part of display color gamut can be used to reproduce 
HDTV colors. For representing the ratio of the HDTV color 
gamut that can be reproduced by the display, we define the 
effective display color number ratio EDCNR= Ne/NHDTV, where 
Ne is the discernible color number of effective display color 
gamut, i.e. the number of discernible colors in the HDTV color 
gamut that can be reproduced by the display. 
 
Fig. 3: Total electrical power Pet, power saving ratio rs, and neutral 
luminance ratio α  versus the maximum transmittance of neutral 
sub-pixels. 
SID 09 DIGEST  •  1217
