 I
中文摘要 
圓織機圓柱凸輪機構是圓織機中，一種用來帶動傳輸經紗之線桿，並透過船梭體與經紗線桿的交
互運動，將 PP 或 PE 塑料依經緯線順序編織的空間凸輪機構。此機構以一旋轉運動之圓柱凸輪為主動
件，從動件為一擺動型（或直動型）之桿件。本計畫應用齊次座標轉換矩陣、微分幾何理論與共軛曲
面原理，以及運動曲線的選用，建立新型具擺動型從動件圓織機圓柱凸輪幾何曲面設計程序與方法，
以克服傳統擺動型凸輪機構難以改善的運轉速度與噪音，及直動型凸輪機構空間需求等問題。而對於
此需要與傳動機構設計配合的空間凸輪加工，向來均以專用機及專用軟體依創成銑削來製造，無法使
用泛用型 CAD/CAM 系統產生所需的刀具位置檔案。因此本計畫以創成與雕刻複合銑削法，建立空間
凸輪五軸加工刀具位置檔，以突破創成銑削法的限制。 
關鍵字：圓柱凸輪、共軛曲面、運動曲線、五軸加工、干涉檢查 
 1
1. INTRODUCTION 
Spatial cam mechanisms have been applied to various automatic machines, for example, the variable pitch 
lead screw of shuttless weaving loom, cylindrical cam of circular loom, and the spool winding cam of textile 
machiney. To generate accurate motion control, a design/machining procedure must be developed so that 
spatial cam with acceptable precision and desired kinematic characteristics can be obtained. In the design 
process, the motion curve of the cam mechanism must first be selected or synthesized. Then, the cam surface 
that will produce this desired motion of the follower can be defined. With the increasing use of computers in 
design and manufacturing, the processes for generating the spatial cam surface can be obtained by general 
purpose CAD/CAM software. However, the CAD/CAM software can generate the cutter location file of 
spatial cam only by the sculpturing method. 
In the design and manufacture for enveloping surfaces, Backhouse and Jones[1] illustrated an approach to 
the analysis of the surface form of spatial cam based on envelope theory. Yan and Chen[2] and Lee and Lee[3] 
integrated the activities for design and manufacturing of the variable pitch lead screw and roller gear cam. 
Lin and Hsieh[4] presented a kinematic model to aid in the determination of the required NC data equations in 
order to move the probe to the desired position to inspect spatial cams on CNC CMM. Tsay and Lin[5] 
proposed a useful procedure for the design, analysis, and machining considerations of the globoidal index 
cams with roller-follower turrets. Ivanov et al.[6] proposed a mathematical model for the determination of the 
profile of the helical surface when the tool geometry used and the parameters (machine setup) determining 
the tool orientation towards the blank were specified. 
In the gouging study of tool orientation, Choi et al.[7] proposed a method to generate optimal cutter location 
data for free-form surface. The optimization problem is formulated as a 2D constrained minimization 
problem. There are three constraints: joint limits, gouging, and collisions on cutter location. Li et al.[8] 
presented the algorithms for detecting the interference due to the rim, front cutting edge and opposite side of 
a disc-type milling cutter for five-axis NC machining. Lee[9] presented a method for finding the admissible 
tool orientation by considering both local gouging and rear gouging. 
In the CAM system, the postprocessor converts cutter location file to NC code. In the research and 
development for postprocessor of machine tools, Sakamoto and Inasaki[10] classified the configuration of 
five-axis machine tools into three types. Lin and Lee[11] used the Denavit-Hartenberg (D-H) notation to 
produce and to measure the dimension accuracy of roller gear cams on 5-axis machine tools. Lee and She[12] 
developed a postprocessor for three kinds of five-axis machine tools. The analytical equations for NC data 
are obtained using the homogeneous coordinate transformation and inverse kinematics. Jung et al.[13] 
presented the algorithms for NC post-processing for typical five-axis milling machine of table-rotating/tilting 
type. 
This paper describes an integrated investigation to generate the interference-free toolpath for five-axis 
machining. To illustrate the proposed approach, a type of cylindrical cam with cylindrical rollers called cam 
of circular loom for woven fabric machine is selected. The surface equation of cylindrical cam is derived 
according to the conjugate surface theory. The surface curvatures of cam are analyzed and the five-axis 
machining method is verified. The real cut is also performed with cast iron and demonstrates the practical 
application. Fig. 1 shows the flowchart of five-axis NC machining for cylindrical cam. 
 
 
 3
The superscript ri  in riR  and rin  indicate that the conical roller and unit normal vector are represented 
in the ( )riOXYZ  coordinate system. “C” and “S” refer to the cosine and sine functions, respectively. 
By applying the homogeneous coordinate transformation matrix, the relative position and orientation of the 
coordinate system ( )riOXYZ  with respect to ( )2OXYZ  can be obtained as follows: 
2 2 1 3
1 3
f
ri f riA A A A= =
( )
( )
( )
3 3 3
2 3 2 2 3 2 3 2
2 3 2 2 3 2 3 2
0
0 0 0 1
C S l S b
C S S C C l C C aC
S S C S C l S C aS
φ φ δ φ
φ φ φ φ φ δ φ φ φ
φ φ φ φ φ δ φ φ φ
⎡ ⎤− − + −⎢ ⎥− + +⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥− − + −⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
                      (3) 
The surface equation 2R  and normal vector 2n  of cylindrical cam are obtained by transforming 
equations (1) and (2) to coordinate system ( )2OXYZ : 
2 2 ri
riR A R= ⋅                                                                       (4) 
2 2 ri
rin A n= ⋅                                                                        (5) 
The meshing equation can be presented as follows: 
2
2 0T d Rn
dt
⋅ =                                                                       (6) 
It can be simplified as the following form: 
0a a aE S F C Gθ θ+ + =                                                                (7) 
( ) ( )3 3tanaE l u C C aC r u S Cδ μ φ μ μ μ φ⎡ ⎤= + − − − +⎣ ⎦  
( )( ) ( ){ } '3tanaF l u C r u Sδ μ μ μ φ= + − − +  
0aG =  
The equation of meshing is the necessary condition of existence of the envelope to the family of surface. 
Once the input-output relation of the mechanism is given, the complete cam-profiles can be determined from 
equations (4) to (6). 
The equidistance conjugate surface of cylindrical cam can also be derived by the same method as described 
above. The designed allowance for rough machining represents the reduction of bottom diameter of conical 
meshing element (refer to Fig. 4). The cutter location of rough machining is derived according to the 
equidistance conjugate surface. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Contact line on equidistance conjugate surface 
 
3. TOOLPATH GENERATION METHODS 
3.1 Generating Method 
The generating method employs the form-mill cutter according to the geometry of meshing element, and 
the kinematics relations of the cutting tool with respect to the workpiece are shown in Fig. 5(a). There are two 
major advantages for using the generating method in machining. First, number of the machining passes of the 
generating method is fewer than that of the sculpturing method. Second, the generating method is capable of 
creating very smooth surface finish[3]. 
Although the generating method has the above-mentioned advantages and is widely used in industries, it 
appears to have the following drawbacks. (i) The flexibility of choosing cutting tool is limited. (ii) The 
cutting force of this method is larger than that of the sculpturing method. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)                           (b) 
Fig. 5. Comparison between the generating method (a) and the combined generating and sculpturing method 
(b) 
 
Xri Yri
Zri
Contact line on
conjugate surface
Contact line on
equidistant conjugate
surface
Meshing element
Machining
allowance Ori
 7
3.2.2 Envelope of the cutter surface 
Using combined generating and sculpturing method for machining of spatial cam will yield errors between 
the generating surface and machined surface. Because the contact condition between the cutting tool and 
meshing roller along the line of tangency is a point-contact, the geometric error emerges from the two 
adjacent cutting paths on the contact line. By using a smaller tool to machine a spatial cam, the lines of 
tangency between the cutter and machined surface have to be derived. The contact line is to be used as the 
cutting shape for calculating the deviation. 
In order to obtain the equation of the contact line of cutter, the meshing equation must be derived by the 
same procedure as the generating surface did. With reference to Fig. 6, the surface equation ( )R ttip  and unit 
outward normal ( )n tTip  of the cylindrical-end mill in coordinate system ( )TipOXYZ  can be described as: 
( ) [ ]R 0.5 0.5 1 TtTip t c tD S u D Cβ β=                                                         (9) 
( ) [ ]n 0 0 TtTip S Cβ β=                                                           (10) 
The equation of machined surface, normal vector of cutting tool in coordinate system ( )2OXYZ  and the 
meshing equation can be expressed as follows: 
2 ( ) 2 ( )t Tip t
TipR A R=                                                                   (11) 
2 ( ) 2 ( )t Tip t
Tipn A n=                                                                   (12) 
( ), , 0c c c cf u E S F C Gβ φ β β= + + =  (Equation of meshing)                                (13) 
( ) 1 tan( )c d c dE u u l C u C S u Sδ μ μ μ μ⎡ ⎤= − + − − + + −⎣ ⎦ ( )( )'3 3 iC C S aC Sφ θ φ β θ μ θ+ + +  
2
t
c d c
D SF u u l u Cμ δ μ⎛ ⎞= − + + − − +⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ ( )( )'3 3 iS C C aCφ θ φ β θ θ− + −  
( )1 3tan( ) 2td c i
D Cu C u S Sμμ μ φ β⎛ ⎞− − − + + +⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠  
0cG =  
where 1 tan( )C r u μ= +  and ( )du l u Cμ= − . 
Contact lines on the cutting tool may be represented by the following expressions: 
( )( ) ( )( ), , , , ,i Tip tTip c cE u R uβ φ β φ= ( )( ), , 0icf u β φ =                                       (14) 
The contact line ( )1 1 1, ,Tip cE u β φ  is represented in the coordinate system 1( )LOXYZ  by coordinate 
transformation from 1( )LOXYZ  to 1( )TipOXYZ , designated by ( )1 1 1, ,L cE u β φ . The contact line at the 
adjacent cutter contact position ( )2 2 2, ,Tip cE u β φ  is also represented in the coordinate system 2( )LOXYZ  by 
 9
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )( )tan 2 2 2t f h t f h t st qtq k k S k k C k kσ σ= − − − + −                                 (16) 
Equation (16) yields two solutions for tq , i.e., 1tq  and 2 1 2t tq q π= + . Using the solutions for tq  in 
equation (15), the principal induced normal curvatures can be obtained. As shown in Fig. 8, point P  is the 
point of tangency of cutter and cam surface. The vector te  is the unit vector that is tangential to the 
intersection of the normal plane and cutter surface. The condition of curvature interference varies with the 
induced normal curvature along the respective direction. For efficiency, one can judge the curvature 
interference according to the sign of principal induced normal curvature. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8. The relation of normal curvatures between the cutter and spatial cam 
 
4.POSTPROCESSOR FOR TABLE-TILTING TYPE FIVE-AXIS MACHINE TOOL 
In order to establish the interface between the design and the manufacture of cylindrical cam, the 
postprocessor for five-axis machine tool is developed. Once the cutter location file is obtained, it should be 
transformed into NC data using the inverse kinematics transformation for multi-axis machine tool. 
A table-tilting type five-axis machine tool is shown in Fig. 9, In addition to three linear perpendicular axes 
(X, Y, Z ), the machine tool which has a rotary table C-axis and a tilting table (A-axis) rotating along the Y 
and X axes. 
Referring to Fig. 10, coordinate systems ( )WOXYZ and ( )tOXYZ are defined at the workpiece and the 
cutting tool, respectively. The pivot points are located on the A axis and C axis. The pivot point AR  is the 
intersection of the two rotary axes, and the pivot point CR  is located on the rotational centre of C axis. The 
offset vector ( , , )PSx PSy PSzL L L  is constructed between the centers of the two rotary axes. The offset vector 
( , , )x y zL L L  as determined from origin wO to point CR  is required for the coordinate transformation. Since 
the structural elements of the machine tool consist of a rotary table, a tilting table, linear tables, machine bed, 
and cutting tool, the generating motion of the machine tool can be characterized sequentially from the 
workpiece to the cutting tool. It is referred to as the form-shaping function[16]. By applying the homogeneous 
coordinate transformation matrix, the cutter location of the coordinate system ( )tOXYZ  with respect to 
workpiece coordinate system ( )WOXYZ  is as follows: 
N
kn(2)>0
kn(t)<0Cutter 
Surface
Cam Surface
P
kn(2 t)>0, non-
interference
N
kn(2)<0
kn(t)<0
P
kn(2 t)>0, non-
interference
Cam Surface
Cutter 
Surface
et
et
 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 10. Coordinate systems of table-tilting type configuration. 
 
5. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
5.1 Geometry Modelling 
The design parameters of cylindrical cam shown in Table 1 are used to generate the cam surface and the 
toolpath. The follower motion is defined by the type of dwell-rise-dwell-fall. The Modified Sinusoidal curve 
(MS curve) is used to synthesize the follower motion for the cam-follower mechanism. By substituting these 
parameters into equations (4)-(6), the surface geometry of the cam profiles are obtained. The solid model of 
the cylindrical cam built by CAD/CAM software is shown in Fig. 11. 
 
Table 1. Design parameters of the cylindrical cam 
Design 
Parameters
Dimensions
(1st Groove)
Dimensions
(2nd Groove)
a  348 mm 360 mm 
b  55 mm 55 mm 
δ  100 mm 110 mm 
r  12.5 mm 12.5 mm 
A  25 mm 25 mm 
μ  0°  0°  
 
 
Yt
Zt
Xt
Ot
Cutting Tool
Yw
Zw
Xw
Ow
Workpiece
A
C
Lxi+Lyj+Lzk
RA
(L PS
x,L P
Sy
,L PS
z)RC
 13
5.3 Machining Error Analysis and Cutting Verification 
To avoid the risk of human error, the generated NC program should be verified before actual machining. 
Since the cutting tool is smaller than the meshing element, the difference in geometry yields the deviation 
between the machined surface and designed surface. In machining error analysis, the AUTU-DIFF module of 
VERICUT® software is adopted to compare a design model to the “as-machined” VERICUT solid model to 
automatically detect differences and protect against gouges. The difference method is determined to point 
comparison method in this study. The gouge tolerance and excess tolerance are both set to 0.002 mm in this 
inspection procedure. 
Fig. 14 presents the process of machining by the proposed method with cylindrical-end mill. The Fig. 15 
reveals the result of error analysis compared the simulated model to the design model. The difference 
between the design model and the simulated model is very close by the proposed method (Table 2). The cause 
of gouge appearance is result from the chordal deviation of linear interpolation on the 5-axis machining 
toolpath. Fig. 16 shows the geometric difference of spatial cam machined by the proposed method and the 
generating method based on the same machining parameters (Table 2). The finish machining of the combined 
generating and sculpturing method with cylindrical-end mill is firstly simulation, then machined by the 
generating method with form-mill cutter. The cyan presents the difference between two machining methods. 
In order to demonstrate the applicability of the combined generating and sculpturing method, cylindrical 
cam was cut using a 5-axis machine with cast iron (Fig. 17). The machined allowances are specified as 0.5 
mm and 0.1 mm respectively for the semi-finish and finish process. The contact condition between 
cylindrical-end mill and spatial cam in the combined generating and sculpturing method belongs to point 
contact, the worn tool can be reused through the compensation of tool radius. The choice of cutting tool is 
more flexible and the cost will be reduced. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 14. Simulation of cylindrical cam cutting by combined generating and sculpturing method 
 
 15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 17. The five-axis machining of cylindrical cam on five-axis machine tool 
 
6. CONCLUSION 
This paper describes the interference-free toolpath generation method for rough machining and finish 
machining of cylindrical cam. The geometry of the cam is generated based on the conjugate surface theory. 
Since the cutter position and orientation are limited according to the geometry of meshing element, the 
toolpath of five-axis machining with interference-free can be generated. To ensure the machining accuracy, 
the geometric error has been analyzed and used as a basis for generating appropriate toolpath. Through the 
verification by the solid cutting simulation software, it demonstrated the proposed method in determining 
cutter location is both valid and practical. This proposed method makes the production process more flexible 
and automatic. 
 
References 
1. C. J. Backhouse and J. R. Jones, Proc. IME B J. Eng. Manufact. 208, 153 (1994). 
2. H. S. Yan and H. H. Chen, Mech. Mach. Theor. 29, 6, 803 (1994). 
3. J. N. Lee and R. S. Lee, J. Mater. Process. Tech. 187~188, 10 (2007). 
4. P. D. Lin and J. F. Hsieh, ASME Trans., J. Manuf. Sci. Eng. 122, 149 (2000). 
5. D. M. Tsay and B. J. Lin, ASME Trans., J. Manuf. Sci. Eng. 119, 21 (1997). 
6. V. Ivanov, G. Nankov and V. Kirov, Int. J. Mach. Tool. Manufact. 38, 1001 (1998). 
7. B. K. Choi, J. W. Park and C. S. Jun, Comput. Aided Des. 25, 6, 377 (1993). 
8. F. Li, X. C. Wang, S. K. Ghosh, D. Z. Kong, T. Q. Lai, and X. T. Wu, J. Mater. Process. Tech. 48, 739 
(1995). 
9. Y. S. Lee, Int. J. Prod. Res. 36, 3, 785 (1998). 
10. S. Sakamoto and I. Inasaki: JSME Trans., Series C, 59, 561, 1553 (1993). 
11. P.D. Lin and M.F. Lee: ASME Trans., J. Manuf. Sci. Eng., 119, 393 (1997). 
12. R.S. Lee and C.H. She: Int. J. Adv. Manuf. Tech., 13, 658 (1997). 
13. Y.H. Jung, D.W. Lee, J.S. Kim and H.S. Mok: J. Mater. Process. Tech., 130-131, 641 (2002). 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 新型具擺動從動件圓織機圓柱凸輪機構之研製
計畫主持人: 李政男
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-230-017- 學門領域: 機構與傳動
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
