 I. INTRODUCTION 
 
Nowadays, various wireless networks emerge and bloom that each has their own 
strength and limitation in technologies and applications. Taiwan has the largest 
production base of IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 802.16 families, and a strong IC design 
industry that seeking for a market not being constrained by patents. To extend the 
usages and deepen the technologies would benefit the industry greatly. Hence, this 
project takes the challenge to research on the issues to integrate IEEE 802.11 and 
802.16 families to a full-fledged access network.   
This research is goal-oriented to extend IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 802.16 as an 
access network. We discovered the related issues, investigated the problems, proposed 
feasible solutions, performed simulations, implemented prototyping systems, and 
finally evaluated the performance. The job involves literature survey, international 
standards following, theoretical study, Linux-based prototyping, ns-2 module 
additions and simulations, experiments and performance measurements.  
The access network in the assumption of this project includes IEEE 802.11 AP’s 
(access points) and MH’s (mobile hosts), and IEEE 802.16 BS and SS. The access 
network would provide high performance, secure and with QoS (quality of service) 
communication service to the MH’s in various contexts.  
The focuses of this project include: TCP Throughput Enhancement over 
Wireless Mesh Networks ， Bulk Scheduling for Delay Sensitive Streaming 
Applications，Sniffing Out Correct Error Frame Model for the ns-2 Simulator， 
Incentive-based Fairness Mechanism for Multi-hop Wireless Backhaul Networks，
Cross-layer Network Mobility Management and Resource Allocation for Fast QoS 
Handovers，Clean-Air Spatial Reuse for Wireless Mesh Networks， User-Decided 
Service Model and Resource Management in a Cooperative WiMAX/HSDPA 
Network。 
 
 pair in G and is associated with a weight, w(v’), 
which represents the TCP flow demand at the 
vertex. An edge is added between two vertices in 
G’ if their transmissions would interfere with each 
other in G. 
Assume the time axis is divided into a 
sequence of fixed-length time slots grouped into 
frames. Let the number of time slots needed for a 
TCP data flow and an ACK flow be denoted as 
Ndata and NACK, respectively; and fdata(v’) and 
fACK(v’) be the numbers of TCP data and ACK 
flows passing through the directional wireless link 
v’ in G’, respectively. The total number of time 
slots required by a wireless link is calculated as 
follows: 
ACKACKdatadata NvfNvfvw ×+×′=′ )'()()( (2).           
We want to find a feasible spatial TDMA 
schedule that satisfies the k=1 model and each 
link’s TCP flow requirement with the minimum 
frame duration. The problem can be formulated as 
a function Ω:V’→{1,…, Nframe}, so we can 
schedule interfering vertices in different time slots 
with the minimum frame cycle time. This is a 
weighted k-coloring problem that is NP-complete. 
In this paper, we take a greedy approach. 
 
Performance Evaluation 
Consider a 1500m x 1500m mesh network 
with three chains (see Figure 1(a)). The hidden 
terminal problem occurs both along the chains 
(e.g., N1,2 and N1,6 in Figure 1(b)) and between 
chains (e.g., N1,3 and N2,6 in Figure 1(c)). 
Assume in each chain path x (x=1~3), each mesh 
router Nx,y (y=1~6) locally generates y long-lived 
TCP connection(s) and injects them to the chain 
towards the gateway. Since the wireless links 
close to the gateway will encounter heavy traffic 
aggregation; in the case of CSMA/CA-based 
channel access scheme, it has been shown that the 
TCP performance would severely deteriorate and 
the transmissions of long-hop TCP flows may be 
starved.  
N1,1
N1,2
N1,3N1,6
N2,1
N2,2N2,3
N2,4
N2,5
N2,6
N3,1N3,2
N3,3
N3,4
N3,5
N3,6
N1,4Internet
gateway
N1,5
N1,6
N2,6
(a) The topology
(b)
(c)
Interference
Range
Carrier Sense
Range
Transmission
Range
N1,2
N1,3
 
Figure 1: The simulation topology and the hidden 
terminal problems in the mesh network. 
The performance results are shown in Table 1. 
The TCP-sleek scheduling achieves better overall 
throughput performance and fairness than the 
other two schemes. Since the TCP-sleek 
scheduling algorithm considers both the 
contention/interference problems and the link 
loads in channel access scheduling and time slot 
assignment, it provides a sleek and fair 
transmission environment for TCP flows 
regardless of their spatial locations and the 
number of hops traversed in the network (see 
Figure 2). 
Table 1: Performance Comparisons  
 
TCP-sleek  
Spatial TDMA 
Scheduling 
k=1 only  
Spatial 
TDMA 
Scheduling 
CSMA/CA 
Access 
Aggregate 
throughput 4.655Mbps 3.805Mbps 2.687Mbps 
Fairness index 0.981 0.980 0.314 
 
Figure 2: The throughput performances under three 
schemes. 
 
 with three different nodal processing index 
estimation methods provides a novel framework 
that can theoretically guarantee end-to-end delay 
bounds for real-time flows with variable-bit-rate 
traffic. In the proposed design, a TED packet only 
need to store the information of the values of the 
residual end-to-end delay bound, such that the size 
of a TED packet can be less than 50 bytes. 
Formally, extra load incurred by TED packets is 
the size of TED packets divided by the period of 
inserting TED packets for each flow. Therefore, if 
we insert TED packets every fifty milliseconds, 
the overhead is only about 1 KBps, which is very 
affordable on the Internet. 
To implement the bulk scheduling scheme, 
three components are necessary to be integrated 
into routers: they are (1) the TED packets 
insertions in ingress routers, (2) the TED packet 
eliminations in egress routers, and (3) BSS 
schedulers in intermediate routers. Note that even 
if some routers do not apply our proposal bulk 
scheduling, the network still can work correctly 
despite the flows without inserting TED packets 
will be treated as N-flows and the routers without 
BSS schedulers must provide certain nodal delay 
bounds. 
We have performed extensive simulations to 
fully examine the characteristics of the bulk 
scheduling scheme in various transmission 
environments. The results show that the bulk 
scheduling scheme can generally provide better 
end-to-end delay guarantees than rate-based 
scheduling algorithms can. 
 (4) An Incentive-based Fairness 
Mechanism for Multi-hop Wireless 
Backhaul Networks [J3] 
 
IEEE 802.11-based wireless network is a 
promising wireless technology to access the 
Internet due to the characteristics of low cost, 
robustness, and ease of deployment. Recently, 
there have been many studies to extend its 
applications from the traditional one-hop network 
access to multi-hop communications, such as ad 
hoc networks, mesh networks, backhaul networks, 
etc. In a wireless backhaul network, traffic 
originating from or destined to mobile users is 
forwarded through multiple wireless Transit 
Access Points (TAPs) to or from the wired Internet 
via a gateway. However, under the Distributed 
Coordination Function (DCF) in 802.11, users 
located more hops away from the gateway suffer 
from low throughput, and in some cases, even 
starvation. This calls for solutions to providing fair 
resource sharing for wireless backhaul networks. 
In most existing work, all the nodes that make 
up the multi-hop networks are assumed 
cooperative. In other words, they share a common 
goal, do not misbehave in packet forwarding, and 
are willing to act as a relay to forward data for the 
other nodes. This assumption, while reasonable in 
disaster recovery or military applications, may not 
hold in civilian backhaul networks, in which TAPs 
may be owned by different independent entities, 
such as restaurants, small business offices, 
individual residences, or hot spots. Since TAPs are 
owned by profit-oriented independent agents, 
rather than a single entity, they are indeed selfish. 
That is to say, they will forward packets for other 
nodes only when the profit they make exceeds the 
cost they spend in forwarding. The selfish 
behavior of each TAP may result in low 
end-to-end throughputs for those TAPs located 
more hops away from the gateway, and, worse, 
may even lead to service disruption.  
The problem caused by nodes’ selfish behavior 
has been recognized by the mobile ad hoc network 
community, and several mechanisms which 
encourage cooperation have been proposed. 
Existing work may be either reputation-based, 
where the behavior of each node is monitored and 
non-cooperative nodes (including selfish and 
malicious ones) will be punished, or 
payment-based, where some virtual currency is 
introduced to encourage packet forwarding for 
other nodes. Other issues addressed in existing 
work, in addition to encouraging cooperation, 
include avoiding cheating and collusion. So far, 
very few efforts have been made to solve the 
fairness problem in wireless backhaul networks 
with selfish nodes. The challenges of this problem 
are mainly contributed by multi-hop relays, flow 
aggregation, and the underlying MAC layer 
mechanisms. In addition, the payment or revenue 
in backhaul networks comes mainly from mobile 
users, not TAPs or destinations as assumed in 
previous work. Thus, both reputation-based and 
payment-based mechanisms in the literature 
cannot be extended to solve the fairness problem 
in wireless backhaul networks with selfish nodes.  
In this paper, we study the fairness problem 
from the game-theoretic perspective and propose a 
monetary incentive mechanism to achieve fair 
resource sharing for wireless backhaul networks in 
the presence of selfish TAPs. The fairness here is 
time-based, i.e., to ensure that the air time of each 
link used by each TAP-aggregated flow (i.e., from 
all of its local mobile users) is identical, and must 
conform with the fairness reference model. The 
goal of a typical game theoretic design is to 
combine the preference of each player into the 
outcome which satisfies the “social choice,” i.e., 
the desired outcome corresponds to that each 
player can optimizes his/her profit according to 
the rules of the game. In other words, the game is 
designed in such a way that a strategy that results 
in the social choice is the optimal or dominant 
strategy for each independent player. In this paper, 
the independent player corresponds to the TAP, 
and the desired outcome is achieved if the fairness 
in the backhaul network is realized. In our game, 
each TAP is selfish and wants to maximize its 
profit; each mobile user pays its associated TAP 
for successful data transmission. We introduce two 
kinds of virtual currency in the game and design a 
payment mechanism by which the fairness is 
realized and TAPs have no incentive to cheat and 
collude. We prove that our mechanism is correct 
and truthful, and evaluate the performance of our 
mechanism via ns-2 simulations. To the best of 
our knowledge, this is the first work which 
achieves fair resource sharing and acts truthfully 
for wireless backhaul networks in the presence of 
selfish TAPs.  
 (6) Clean-Air Spatial Reuse for Wireless 
Mesh Networks [C3] 
 
1. Introduction 
The wireless mesh network is expected to provide large 
transmission capacity and serve as a promising 
complementary solution to existing broadband access 
infrastructure. An important performance metric to evaluate 
the effectiveness of such a network is the network capacity 
throughput defined as the aggregate number of bits that can 
be successfully received by designated receivers within the 
network for a certain period of time. The main factor that 
limits the network capacity throughput of a wireless mesh 
network is the interference between neighboring nodes when 
using a shared medium. According to the Shannon’s Channel 
Capacity Theorem and the SINR definition, having a 
successful transmission with higher transmission rate at the 
sender requires higher SINR at the receiver which means it 
would be better to keep the interference low at the receiver 
by controlling the number of concurrent transmissions in the 
neighborhood. Conversely, a successful transmission can 
also be achieved by lowering a sender’s transmission rate in 
a lower SINR environment which allows more number of 
concurrent non-interfering transmissions in the 
neighborhood. In other words, transmission concurrency and 
senders’ transmission rates are indeed a tradeoff. 
In this work, first, we wish to retain the flexibility of 
distributed channel access scheduling but reduce the 
complexity of distributed multi-access contention resolution. 
Second, we want to increase transmission concurrency as 
possible in the control/data slot access to raise network 
capacity throughput by exploiting the spatial reuse property 
and with the support of variable transmission rate capability 
at wireless stations. Here, we propose a combined approach 
which spans both the MAC layer and the network planning 
plane to scale a wireless mesh network to high network 
capacity throughput and large coverage.  
2. The Level‐N Clean‐Air Spatial Reuse Policy 
There are V stations, denoted as SS1, SS2, …, SSV, in a 
TDMA-based mesh network. Each SSi has at most k SSj’s 
within the distance d which are referred to as the level-1 
neighbors. The level-1 neighbors of the station’s level-1 
neighbors are referred to as the level-2 neighbors, and so on. 
The idea of defining Level-N Clean-Air Spatial Reuse policy 
is to specify the minimum scope (level) between any two 
concurrent transmissions in the network, hence the name 
clean air. Hence, given the Level-N Clean-Air Spatial Reuse 
policy, the assignment of active sender-receiver pairs to an 
access group must satisfy the following two conditions: 
• for  every  SS  assigned  to  transmit  in  the  slot,  all  its 
level‐1, level‐2, …, up to level‐N neighbors, except for the 
intended  receiver  must  not  be  scheduled  for 
transmitting and receiving; 
• for  every  SS  scheduled  to  receive,  all  its  level‐1, 
level‐2,  …,  up  to  level‐N  neighbors,  except  for  the 
intended  transmitter  must  not  be  scheduled  for 
transmitting and receiving. 
The policy will be used to partition all possible 
sender-receiver pairs in the network into distinct logical 
concurrent access groups. Pairs within the same group are 
allowed to transmit at the same time slot. 
3. The Distributed Data Scheduling and 
Reservation Schemes 
Under the planning model, each station has the 
following knowledge: a) the Clean-Air Spatial Reuse policy 
employed; b) the concurrent control access group it belongs 
to; c) the concurrent data access group it belongs to. 
Meantime, it maintains a state vector recording the 
reservation status of the data subframe. Each element in the 
state vector has the value of “Free” (no one reserved or 
reserved by pairs of my group), “Busy” (already reserved by 
the other groups), “Send” (for my sending) or “Receive” (for 
my receiving). An example of distributed data scheduling 
and reservation under the Level-1 policy is depicted in 
Figure 1. 
S F S F S F
d1  d2 d3 d4  d5 d6
F R F R F F
B S B F B S
F R F F F R
DS1 
DS2
DS3
DS4
DS5
DS6
SS1 SS2
SS3 SS4
SS5 SS6
SS6 (D4) SS9 (D4)
B S B S B F
R B R B R B
F R F F F R
F B F F F B
R B R R F B
S R S S F R
SS7
F B F B F BDS7
DS6 :
DS9 :
DS9 : (updated)
DS6 : (updated)
B F B B F F
DS10 : (updated)
B S B B B S
DS5 : (updated)
R B R R F B
DS9 : (updated)
D1
D2
Legend:
DSi: data schedule at station i
Status of a data slot: 
B: busy; S: send; R: receive; F: free.
Message content: 
< GroupID, list_FreeSlots, amount>
Data
Subframe:
(before SS6Æ SS9)
SS8 SS9
F B F F F BDS8
F B F F F BDS9
DS7 : (updated)
B B B B F B
D4
SS10
F F F F F FDS10
Fi
gure 1: The distributed data scheduling and reservation. 
4. Performance Evaluation 
Consider a mesh network with 24 nodes which are 
always backlogged. The frame duration is 10 ms; there are 
64 data slots in the data subframe; the bandwidth is 10MHz. 
All simulations are implemented in C. The transmission rate 
requirements are based on the data in WiMAX Forum. For 
example, the minimum capture threshold is 1.9484 (2.9dB) 
and the corresponding transmission rate is 10Mbps. 
Figure 2 presents the network capacity throughputs for 
Level-0, -1 and -2 Clean-Air Spatial Reuse policies under 
different environmental conditions. The Level-0 policy 
achieves the highest network capacity throughput due to 
more number of concurrent transmission pairs are scheduled 
in each time slot which compensates the negative effect of 
using lower transmission rates. However, Level-0 policy 
may not have feasible scheduling solutions for environments 
with larger path loss exponent such as in metropolitan areas. 
The values with the start sign are the theoretical upper 
bounds of the throughput calculated according to the 
Shannon’s Channel Capacity Theorem. 
Path Loss Exponent
0.15
0.12
0.09
0.06
0.03
0
0
100
200
300
6 5.5 5 4.5 4 3.5 3 2.5 2
0.15
0.12
0.09
0.06
0.03
0
0
100
200
300
6 5.5 5 4.5 4 3.5 3 2.5 2
0.15
0.12
0.09
0.06
0.03
0
0
100
200
300
6 5.5 5 4.5 4 3.5 3 2.5 2
Level‐2
Level‐1
Level‐0
275 Mbps
208 Mbps
157 Mbps
26 5.5 5 4.5 4 3.5 3 2.5
26 5.5 5 4.5 4 3.5 3 2.5
26 5.5 5 4.5 4 3.5 3 2.50
300
200
100
0
200
100
0
200
100
0.15
0.020.070.11
0
0.15
0.020.070.11
0.15
0.020.070.11
N
et
w
or
k 
Ca
pa
ci
ty
 T
hr
ou
gh
pu
t (
M
bp
s)
Fi
gure 2: The network capacity throughputs for Level-0, -1 and 
-2 Clean-Air Spatial Reuse policies under different 
environmental variables 
 
 REFERENCES 
  
[J1]. “Sniffing Out Correct Error Frame Model 
for the ns-2 Simulators”, Jeng Farn Lee, 
Meng Chang Chen and Cheng Lin Tsao, 
Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory, 
pp. 1227-1240, August 2009. 
[J2]. “Enhanced Bulk Scheduling for Supporting 
Delay Sensitive Streaming Applications”, 
Yung-Cheng Tu, Meng Chang Chen, Yeali S. 
Sun and Wei-Kuan Shih, pp. 971-987, 
Volume 52, Issue 5, Computer Networks, 
April 2008. 
[J3]. "An Incentive-based Fairness Mechanism 
for Multi-hop Wireless Backhaul Networks 
with Selfish Nodes", Jeng Farn Lee, Wanjiun 
Liao, and Meng Chang Chen, pp. 697-704, 
IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications, February 2008..  
[J4]. “TCP Throughput Enhancement over 
Wireless Mesh Networks”, Li-Ping Tung, 
Te-Chung Cho, Yeali S. Sun, Meng Chang 
Chen and Wei-Kuan Shih, Pages 64-70, 
IEEE Communications Magazine, 
November 2007.  
[C1]. “A User-Decided Service Model and 
Resource Management in a Cooperative 
WiMAX/HSDPA Network”, Yu-Chun 
Pan, Yeali S. Sun, Chun Hsu and Meng 
Chang Chen 2009 IEEE ICC CSCW 
Conference, Dresden, Germany, 2009. 
[C2]. “TCP-sleek Channel Access Scheduling for 
Multi-hop Mesh Networks”, Li-Ping 
Tung, Yeali S. Sun, Tzu-Lin Huang, and 
Meng Chang Chen, IWCMC 2009 
Cross-Layer Optimized Wireless 
Networks Symposium, Leipzig, Germany, 
2009. 
[C3]. “A Distributed Channel Access Scheduling 
Scheme with Clean-Air Spatial Reuse for 
Wireless Mesh Networks”, Yuan-Chieh 
Lin, Shun-Wen Hsiao, Li-Ping Tung, 
Yeali S. Sun, and Meng Chang Chen, 
Networking 2008 (Lecture Notes in 
Computer Science 4982), Singapore, 
2008. 
[C4]. “HiMIP-NEMO: Combining Cross-layer 
Network Mobility Management and 
Resource Allocation for Fast QoS 
Handovers”, Cheng-Wei Lee, Yeali S. 
Sun and Meng Chang Chen, 2008 IEEE 
67th Vehicular Technology Conference: 
VTC2008-Spring, Singapore, 2008. 
[C5]. "Sniffing Out Correct Error Frame Model of 
ns-2 Simulator", Jeng-Farn Lee and 
Meng Chang Chen, ACM 
Communications and Networking 
Simulation Symposium (CNS), Ottawa, 
Canada, April, 2008 
[C6]. “A Practical Cross-layer QoS Mechanism for 
Voice over IP in IEEE 802.11e WLANs”, 
Jeng Farn Lee, Jie-Ming Chen, Wanjiun 
Liao, Hsiu-Hui Lee, and Meng Chang 
Chen, IEEE International Conference on 
Multimedia & Expo (ICME) 2007, 
Beijing, China, July 2007.   
 
 
一. 參加會議經過 
 
A.  該會議是在新加坡於民國九十七年 七月二十日到二十四日舉行。  
 
B.  於七月二十三日上午發表論文” TSCAN: A Novel Method for Topic 
Summarization and Content Anatomy”，本論文討論如何將有關一個事件
的多篇文件總合起來，有系統、方便的將其事件表示出來。聽眾有一百
餘人，並回答多位與會專家學者的問題與討論。會後並與多位學者、研
究人員保持電子信件聯繫，交換資料與討論相關議題。 
  
C.  參加整個議程。與多位參與會議人士廣泛討論IR領域目前研究方向與方
法, 並介紹本人與本實驗室，以及整個台灣學術界在這領域的研究近況。
 
二. 與會心得 
 
A. ACM SIGIR年度會議是本領域最重要會議，論文錄取率相當低，而且皆
頗具水準，每年該領域重要學者與研究人員都會去參加，今年有六七百
人與會，美國參與者最多，亞洲約三分之一，其它為世界各國學者。中
國因 Microsoft Research Asia 多年來大力提攜，中國學者在多個領域（包
括IR領域）都漸漸有其地位、規模。本次會議有多篇Microsoft Research 
Asia與北大、清華、中科院等合著之論文，研究成績相當不錯。不過遇
到一位美國教授，他表示對此情形的憂慮，擔心以後有壟斷審稿不公的
情形。 
  
B. 新加坡政府大力提倡「會議工業」，獎勵在該國舉辦國際會議。本次大
會承辦單位為國立新加坡大學，在該國政府鼎力幫助下，本次會議在各
方面舉辦相當成功。不過新加坡物價頗高，單是旅館住宿費就與國科會
補助之生活費相當。 
 
三.考察參觀活動 
無 
 
四. 建議 
無 
 
五. 攜回資料 
A.  Proceedings一冊 
 
 
 
 
