 I
Abstract 
We report on the design, fabrication, and characterization of a high fill-factor, large scan-angle, 
two-axis scanner array. The two-axis MEMS (Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems) mirror is 
driven by electrostatic vertical comb-drive actuators through four motion amplifying levers. The 
maximum mechanical rotation angles are ± 6.7° at 75V for both axes, leading to total optical scan 
angle of 26.8°. The mechanical resonant frequency is 5.9 kHz before metallization. A linear fill 
factor of 98% is achieved for the one-dimensional (1D) micromirror array. In addition to two-axis 
rotation, piston motion with a stroke of 11.7 μm is also attained. Such mirror structures can be 
readily used for adaptive optics applications when extended to high-fill-factor two-dimensional 
(2D) arrays. 
 
Key Words—Adaptive optics, comb-drive actuator, leverage mechanism, two-axis micromirror. 
 
摘要 
我們針對一具備大旋轉角度之高填充率、雙軸微鏡片陣列進行研析。此雙軸微機電鏡片是
以四組槓桿配合垂直梳型靜電致動器驅動。鏡片之最大機械旋轉角度為±6.7°(光學掃描範圍
為 26.8°)，所需電壓為 75V。元件在鍍金前的機械共振頻率是 5.9 kHz；此鏡片結構所組成
的一維陣列之填充率為 98%。除了可雙軸旋轉外，此鏡片亦可作垂直方向的活塞運動，其
最大垂直位移可達 11.7 μm。若以此鏡片結構組成高充率之二維陣列，則可應用於調適光學
系統。 
 
關鍵詞—調適光學、梳型致動器、槓桿原理、雙軸微鏡片 
 2
four vertical comb-drive actuators. Fig 1(c) is a simplified schematic showing the 1D array 
formed with such two-axis scanners. 
Previously, a discrete 2D platform using a similar elevation-to-tilting mechanism was reported 
in [21]. However, the buckling mechanism requires much larger force and also makes it more 
difficult to implement high fill-factor arrays. 
B. Design of 2-DOF Joints 
The design of the 2-DOF mirror joint plays a critical role in the performance of the two-axis 
scanner. As shown in the inset of Fig. 1(a), the 2-DOF mirror joint has a T-shape configuration to 
support rotation in two orthogonal directions. Relative to the torsion spring of the lever fulcrum, 
the joint can either be stiff (Fig. 2(a)) or compliant by using serpentine design as shown in Fig. 
2(b). Compliant joints shown in Fig. 2(b) can produce larger scan angles, as illustrated in Fig. 3. 
For a stiff joint (Fig. 3(a)), when the actuated left lever produces an elevation (h) at the left side 
of the mirror, the right side of the mirror is also lifted up by an amount Δ through mechanical 
coupling between the levers. This Δ reduces the mirror scan range as the tilt angle is proportional 
to the height difference, h-Δ. On the other hand, compliant joints yields less mechanical coupling 
(smaller Δ) as shown in Fig. 3(b). Therefore, larger scan angles can be achieved with compliant 
joints. 
The four 2-DOF joints are placed symmetrically underneath the mirror, spaced by 100 μm. The 
lever amplifies the vertical displacement at the 2-DOF joint to 11.7 μm, leading to a maximum 
tilting angle of ±6.7° for both axes.  
III. DEVICE FABRICATION 
The cross section of the two-axis micromirror along the A-A’ direction in Fig. 1(a) is shown in 
Fig. 4. The fabrication process has five polysilicon layers, including one non-releasable ground 
layer poly0 and four structural layers, poly1 to poly4. (The term poly is the abbreviation of 
polysilicon.) The corresponding polysilicon layers for each structure (fixed fingers, movable 
fingers, levers, etc.) are labeled in Fig. 4. The poly0 layer (0.3 μm thick) is designated for either 
the interconnecting lines or the ground planes, which shield the moving structures from the 
bottom dielectric. The shielding prevents any possible drift caused by the dielectric charge-up 
effect. The torsion springs of the lever fulcrums and 2-DOF joints are made of poly1, which has a 
thickness of 1 μm. The fixed fingers of the vertical comb-drive actuators are fabricated with the 
laminated ploy1/poly2 layer (total thickness = 2.5 μm), whereas the movable fingers are made of 
poly3 (2.25 μm thick). The lever structure is formed by stacking poly1, poly2, poly3, and poly4 
to enhance the mechanical stiffness. However, underneath the mirror areas only poly1 and poly2 
are used to ensure sufficient clearance (6.25 μm) between the lever and the mirror. The top 
polysilicon layer, poly4 (2.25 μm thick), is used for the mirror. The 
chemical-mechanical-planarization (CMP) process before the deposition of the top two 
polysilicon layers eliminates the topography underneath the mirrors. They also provides a large 
gap spacing (10.75 μm) between the mirror and substrate. 
Scanning electron micrographs (SEMs) of the two-axis micromirrors are shown in Fig. 5. Fig. 
5(a) is part of the 1D mirror array, while Fig. 5 (b) shows the 2-DOF joints underneath the mirror. 
 4
Letters, Vol. 18, No. 13, pp. 1439-1441, July 1, 2006. 
 6
[15] L. J. Hornbeck, "Digital light processing for high brightness, high resolution applications," 
in Proceedings of SPIE vol. 3013 (Electronic Imaging EI'97, Projection Displays III, Feb. 
10-12, 1997, San Jose, CA). 
[16] K. Murakami, A. Murata, T. Suga, H. Kitagawa, Y. Kamiya, M. Kubo, K. Matsumoto, H. 
Miyajima, and M. Katashiro, “A miniature confocal optical microscope with MEMS gimbal 
scanner”, in Proceedings of  Transducers’03, pp. 587-590. 
[17] W. Piyawattanametha, L. Fan, S. Hsu, M. Fujino, M. C. Wu, P. R. Herz, A. D. Aguirre, Y. 
Chen, and J. G. Fujimoto, “Two-dimensional endoscopic MEMS scanner for high resolution 
optical coherence tomography,” in Proceedings of CLEO 2004, paper CWS2. 
[18] H. Y. Lin et al., “Torsional mirror with an electrostatically driven lever-mechanism,” Proc. of 
Optical MEMS 2000, pp.113-114. 
[19] V. Milanovic, G. A. Matus, and D. T. McCormick, “Tip-tilt-piston actuators for high 
fill-factor micromirror arrays,” in Proceedings of Solid-State Sensor, Actuator and 
Microsystems Workshop, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, June 6-10, 2004,  
pp.232-237. 
[20] V. Milanovic, G. A. Matus, and D. T. McCormick, “Gimbal-less monolithic silicon actuators 
for tip–tilt–piston micromirror applications,” IEEE Journal Of Selected Topics In Quantum 
Electronics, Vol. 10, No. 3,  pp.462-471, May/June 2004. 
[21] S. L. Miller, et al., “Microelectromechanical apparatus for elevating and tilting a platform,” 
United States Patent, patent no: US 6,545,385 B2 
 8
Lever
Lever
Lever
Anchor to 
Mirror
(b) Compliant Joint(a) Stiff Joint
Anchor to 
Mirror
 
Fig. 2. (a) Stiff and (b) compliant spring designs for the 2-DOF mirror joint. 
 
 
 
Lever
h
Torsion spring 
(lever)
2-DOF Joint
θ Mirror
Δ
 
(a) 
h
θ2-DOF Joint
Torsion spring 
(lever)
 
(b) 
Fig. 3. The dependence of the mirror scan angle on the compliance (relative to the torsion spring 
constant of the lever fulcrum) of the 2-DOF joints: (a) stiff joints, (b) compliant joints. 
