 2
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫宗旨在於開發一具有永續光電動力之仿生飛行撲翼，發展以薄膜單晶矽太陽能
電池為基礎之飛行撲翼，期能同時達到兼具低重量、高強度比、高勁度比以及高能量轉換
效率薄膜太陽能電池撲翼之理想。在第一年的計畫執行中，我們首先開發並應用奈米結構
抑制材料破裂之特性，藉由將單晶矽表面奈米結構化，可達到六倍原有之抗彎折強度
(bending strength)，並已將此突破性之重要結果發表於國際學術期刊。 
表面奈米結構化除了能強化仿生飛行撲翼之機械特性，同時可利用其抗反射特性以提
升太陽能光電轉換效率。展望未來兩年，將針對撲翼之強化、薄化與光電轉換效率提昇，
設計與規劃具奈米結構薄化矽太陽能電池撲翼之後續與發展方向與實驗方法。 
本年度計畫已完成之重要成果包含奈米結構化矽晶片製程技術開發與奈米結構化機械
強度之軟體模擬分析等。  
 
關鍵字：仿生、撲翼、奈米結構、機械強化、抗反射、單晶矽、太陽能電池 
 
二、 Abstract 
    In this project, the objective is to develop a biomemetic flapping wing with sustainable 
power system. Both mechanical strength and optical antireflection can be enhanced by 
introducing nanostructured surface to single crystalline silicon. In this way, a thin-film solar cell 
flapping wing can be developed and featured low weight, high bending strength, high fractural 
toughness, and high energy efficiency. In the first year, the silicon substrates with nanostructured 
surface were proven to be with 6 folds enhancement in bending strength. This significant and 
proven result had been published in international journal. In addition, we already developed the 
process for nanostructured silicon surface and software simulation of mechanical strength. We 
also design experiments and plans for the next two years. 
Keywords: biomemetic, flapping wing, nanostructure, mechanical strengthening, antireflection, 
single crystalline silicon, solar cell 
 4
A. 單晶矽表面奈米結構化提昇機械強度 
A.1 Introduction: 
Fracture of silicon substrate during Si-based solar cells and Si-based integrated circuits (ICs) 
manufacturing causes large scale damage which leads to the severe yield loss and reliability 
issues. Strength improvement is an effective way to minimize the possibility of the crack or 
fracture. Over the past decades, strengthening methods have been developed to increase strength 
of ceramic composites and Si. The strengthening Si would effectively improve the failure of 
silicon substrate. 
Many efforts made to improve the strength of the silicon wafers which can reduce the crack 
or fracture of silicon substrate. Crack deflection and the growth of cracks effectively dissipate 
strain energy during the fracture of multilayer structure leading to the higher strength. Multilayer 
structure composed of ductile layer and brittle layer to strengthen materials [A1].  
When brittle material suffered from load, material deforms and accumulates strain energy 
which concentrates around the crack tip.  The microcracks are formed to dissipate strain energy 
for suppressing crack propagation, obtaining the higher strength [A2]. Stress-induced phase 
transformations produce additional compressive stress during crack propagation and increase 
strength due to the matrix particle that increases its volume by phase transformation. 
Transformation particles around the crack tip absorb strain energy, locally releasing and 
decreasing stress field around the crack tip [A3].  
Material composed of brittle matrix and brittle fibers effectively increase strength. As 
cracking matrix, load is carried by fibers.  Fibers do no fail simultaneously because the fiber 
strength is subject to statistical variability and plays a role of bridge to support matrix. That 
enables the material to absorb more strain energy until the failure [A4]. Whisker similar to fiber is 
one of a reinforcing agent used to improve strength. However, the mechanism of whisker 
strengthening is usually worse than fiber strengthening due to the random arrangement of whisker 
 6
A.2 Achievement in first year: 
 Achieved target: Strength enhancement by 6 times using nanowires for sc-silicon substrate 
without affecting the bulk properties of material. 
 Recipe tuning for development of nanowire samples. 
 Approval testing result via standard bending tester : HUNG TA 8336 equipment. 
 
A.3 Experimental results and discussions : 
Polished single crystal silicon samples and nanoholes on double surface of the samples were 
designed to compare the strength enhancement.  The fabrication of nanoholes on specimens is 
performed by using elecroless metal deposition method. The depth of 1 um to 8 um was designed 
for study. Bending strength was measured according to the three-point bending (3PB) test, ASTM 
E 855-90, by the material testing machine (HUNG TA HT-2102A) equipped with a 980-N load 
cell (HUNG TA 8336) at 26 ◦C ± 1 ◦C, as shown in Fig. 1. 
 
 Finding the appropriate recipe for fabricating the periodic nanoholes. 
 Recipe for different width and depth of nanowires dependent on etching time (Hsieh’s 
Recipe).  
 Recipe for nanowire depth dependent on etching time but width almost unchanged (Peng’s 
Recipe). 
 Bending Test for both the recipe. 
 
 8
Results and discussion for bending test: 
Bending strength of 0.24 GPa for polished silicon samples represented as black reference line in 
Fig. 3 (a). 
 
(a)     (b)  
Fig. 3. Bending test; (a) Bending Strength at fracture load versus nanohole depth, (b) 
Load-displacement curve 
 
Results could be discussed in two regions separated at the nanohole depth of 1.5 μm. 
 Nanowires depth is less than 1.5 μm, flaws in the plates are dominant, which recovered 
rapidly by increase the depth of nanowires. 
 Roughness of nanowire plate increases when the nanohole depth is larger than 1.5 μm, 
leading to stress concentration at nanowires and lowered bending stress at rupture. 
 Maximum bending stress at rupture (0.63 ± 0.02 GPa) was obtained with the nanohole depth 
of 1.5 μm, which was 2.5 times larger than that with polished plates (Fig. 3(a)) 
 Unchanged silicon stiffness of plates (slope of load displacement curve, Fig. 3(b)) represents 
unchanged young’s modulus, which leads to unaffected bulk properties. 
 
Peng’s Recipe: 
Peng’s recipe was having same width and pitch as 100 ± 5 nm and 200 ± 10 nm respectively, 
independent of etching time [A10, A11]. Nanoholes with different morphologies were fabricated 
by tuning the concentrations of AgNO3 and HF with temperature and by modulating etching 
 10
bending stress at rupture and reached to saturation. 
 Maximum bending stress at rupture (1.02 ± 0.11 GPa) was obtained with the nanohole depth 
of 4 μm, which was 6 times larger than that with polished plates (Fig. 5(a)) 
 Unchanged silicon stiffness of plates (slope of load displacement curve, Fig. 5(b)) represents 
unchanged young’s modulus, which leads to unaffected bulk properties. 
 
The micromechanism behind this phenomenon was still not cleared yet. For clearing the 
mechanism, the V-notch technique was adopted and dependence of depth of nanowire on flaws is 
being investigated. V-notch technique was adopted because it acts as a synthetic defect and 
dominates the other defect by concentrating the stress at tip of V-notch. The journal paper 
preparation regarding development of micromechanism behind this phenomenon is in progress. 
 
A.4 Future works: 
Second Year: After the investigation of the phenomenon of strength enhancement for sc-silicon 
due to nanoholes, the micromechanism was not clear. For finding the mechanism behind this the 
V-notch technique related experiments will be conducted. Dependence of nanoholes on the flaw 
depth will be investigated to make the mechanism clearer. For micro level investigation first the 
Ansys model simulation will be adopted which will be confirmed by the experiments by Raman 
spectroscopy to clear the stress profile for V-notch and nanowires. This year will be devoted for 
finding the micomechanism of the phenomenon. 
 
Third Year: We will try the patterned nanoholes for our flapping wing which can enhance the 
strength and optimize the functional space for our solar cell. Different kind of coating methods on 
nanoholes will be tested to improve the strength to nearly reach the flexible substrate with 
mechanism. 
 12
Black silicon is one of the methods to increase the efficiency of silicon solar cell [B2].  As 
shown in Fig. 2, it is known that reflectivity can be reduced to around 2% by using black silicon 
for a broad range of wavelength. With the use of nanostructure without time consuming KOH 
texturing and nitride or oxide passivation the absorption can be increased to a greater extent. So 
our purpose is to improve solar cell efficiencies for this project by providing black silicon wafers 
which can absorb more sunlight than conventional silicon wafers.   
 
(a)  (b)   
Fig. 2. Reflectivity of Poly-Si thinfilm versus nanosponge: (a) before annealing, (b) after 
annealing 
 
B.2 Literature survey: 
For high efficiency solar cell we decided to use nanostructure solar cell. For this our 
inspiration is Moth eye structure. For antireflection pattern different technologies are available 
like photolithography, Nano imprint, ICP, DRIE but these all processes are costly and 
complicated. To minimize optical absorption in the AR coatings of the solar cells, sub wavelength 
nanostructures, inclusive of nanotips, nanorods and nanosponges, were proposed [B3-B5]. 
Different recipes were tried for suitable nanostructure to absorb more light. For our experiment 
metal assisted wet chemical etching was used. Etching of silicon is done by HF as the etching 
agent and H2O2 is used as oxidizing agent. Silver is used as noble metal to catalyze the reaction 
of silicon. With this antireflective nanosponges are fabricated on polycrystalline silicon thin 
 14
B.3 Future works: 
Second Year:  
1) PN junction uniformity improvement: With nanostructure light absorption is obviously 
increased but PN junction uniformity is affected with this kind of nano texturing.  
Actions required: 
a) Diffusion process optimization: For better efficiency we need smaller sheet 
resistance and long carrier life time. Junction depth and junction concentrations are 
important parameters for controlling the process. 
b) Nanostructures design: We are using Metal assisted chemical etching so for 
change the structure design we need to tune the recipe.  
 
2) Light Absorption enhancement: There is always a tradeoff between light absorption and 
carrier recombination by nanostructure. If we are using textured structure then light absorption 
will increase but it will cause surface recombination.  
 
Third Year: 
Complete the nano structure solar cell design: For this we need to take care of all the steps of 
solar cell manufacturing process because the final efficiency will depend on each and every step. 
Actions required: 
a) Decrease in carrier recombination: The recombination is also a major problem 
for the final efficiency. With the nanostructure surface to volume ratio is significantly 
increased and hence the recombination centers are also increased 
b) Carrier lifetime improvement: The surface recombination may affect the life 
time also. Actually both recombination and lifetime are interdependent [B7]. 
 16
四、 參考文獻 
[A1] D. Kovar, M. D. Thouless, and J. W. Halloran, "Crack deflection and propagation in layered 
silicon nitride boron nitride ceramics," Journal of the American Ceramic Society, vol. 81, pp. 
1004-1012, 1998. 
[A2] R. O. Ritchie, "Mechanisms of fatigue-crack propagation in ductile and brittle solids," 
International Journal of Fracture, vol. 100, pp. 55-83, 1999. 
[A3] A. M. Popa, G. Anne, J. Vleugels, A. Foissy, and O. Van der Biest, "Suspension development 
for colloidal shaping of Al2O3-ZrO2 FGM's," Functionally Graded Materials Viii, vol. 492-493, 
pp. 777-782, 2005. 
[A4] Q. S. Ma, Z. H. Chen, W. W. Zheng, and H. F. Hu, "Processing and characterization of 
three-dimensional carbon fiber-reinforced Si-O-C composites via precursor pyrolysis," Materials 
Science & Engineering A, vol. 352, pp. 212-216, 2003. 
[A5] Y. Q. Fu, Y. W. Gu, and H. J. Du, "SiC whisker toughened Al2O3-(Ti, W) C ceramic matrix 
composites," Scripta Materialia, vol. 44, pp. 111-116, 2001. 
[A6] R. Sun, T. Xu, J. Zhang, and Q. Xue, "The study of ion mixed amorphous carbon films on 
single crystal silicon by C ion implantation," Applied Surface Science, vol. 252, pp. 4236-4243, 
2006. 
[A7] R. Sun, T. Xu, and Q. Xue, "Effect of Ar+ ion implantation on the nano-mechanical 
properties and microstructure of single crystal silicon," Applied Surface Science, vol. 249, pp. 
386-392, 2005. 
[A8] W. Moon, T. Ito, S. Uchimura, and H. Saka, "Toughening of ceramics by dislocation 
sub-boundaries," Materials Science and Engineering A, vol. 387, pp. 837-839, 2004. 
[A9] C. Hsieh, J. Chyan, W. Hsu, and J. Yeh, "Fabrication of wafer-level antireflective structures 
in optoelectronic applications," in Optical MEMS and Nanophotonics, 2007 IEEE/LEOS 
International Conference on, 2007, pp. 185-186. 
[A10] K. Peng, Y. Yan, S. Gao, and J. Zhu, "Synthesis of large-area silicon nanohole arrays via 
self-assembling nanoelectrochemistry," Advanced Materials, vol. 14, pp. 1164-1167, 2002. 
[A11] K. Peng, Y. Yan, S. Gao, and J. Zhu, "Dendrite-assisted growth of silicon nanoholes in 
electroless metal deposition," Advanced Functional Materials, vol. 13, pp. 127-132, 2003. 
[B1] M.A. Green, "Crystalline silicon solar cells," Progress in Photovoltaics Research and 
Applications, vol. 12, pp. 1-49, 1954. 
[B2] Y. Xia, B. Liu, J. Liu, Z. Shen, and C. Li, "A novel method to produce black silicon for solar 
cells," Solar Energy, vol. 85, pp. 1574-1578, 2011.  
[B3] Y.-F. Huang, S. Chattopadhyay, Y.-J. Jen, C.-Y. Peng, T.-A. Liu, Y.-K. Hsu, C.-L. Pan, H.-C. 
Lo, C.-H. Hsu, Y.-H. Chang, C.-S. Lee, K.-H. Chen, and L.-C. Chen, "Improved broadband and 
quasi-omnidirectional anti-reflection properties with biomimetic silicon nanostructures," Nature 
Nanotechnology, vol. 2, pp. 770-774, 2007.  
[B4] J. Q. Xi, M. F. Schubert, J. K. Kim, E. F. Schubert, M. Chen, S.-Y. Lin, LiuW, and J. A. 
 18
五、 計畫成果自評 
A. 預定執行工作與完成度 
項
次 預定執行工作 完成度 具體研究成果 備註 
1 
奈米結構化矽
晶片之比強度
與比勁度之效
能探討 
90% 
1. 奈米結構化矽晶片製程技術開發 
2. 自製可攜式小型三點拉伸測試平台 
3. 奈米結構化機械強度之軟體模擬分
析 期刊論文 2篇 (1 發表，1撰寫
中) 
會議論文 1篇 
4 
確定奈米結構
化矽晶片工作
特性區間 
90% 
1. 奈米結構化製程參數資料庫之建立 
2. 奈米結構化對機械強度與太陽能電
池光電效率之影響與分析 
3. 具奈米結構薄化矽太陽能電池實驗
設計與規劃 
 
B. 論文發表 
期刊論文： 
1. C. N. Chen, C. T. Huang, C. L. Chao, M. T. Hou, W. C. Hsu, and J. A. Yeh, "Strengthening for 
sc-Si solar cells by surface modification with nanowires, " J. Microelectromech. S., vol. 20, 
751-760, 2011. 
2. K. Kashyap and J. A. Yeh, "Nanowired-induced stress relaxation of V-notched sc-silicon 
substrates,” (manuscript in preparation for Applied Physics Letters ) 
 
會議論文：  
1. K. Kashyap and J. A. Yeh, "6 folds enhanced strength of sc-silicon substrate using 
nanowires," 5th Nano and Micro Systems (NAMIS) international school, Neuchatel 
(Switzerland), Arcs-En-Senans and Besançon (France), September 12-16, 2011. 
 
C. 重點成果與未來展望 
本年度之重要成果主要在於開發並利用奈米結構抑制材料破裂之特性，成功驗證能達
到六倍原有抗彎折強度(bending strength)之單晶矽基板。在過程之中，我們開發了單晶
矽表面奈米結構化之技術，由於此技術僅針對單晶矽表面數微米之深度予以改質，在能夠
大幅提昇單晶矽基板原有之抗彎折強度的同時，並不影響單晶矽塊材之機械特性或造成塊
材本身應用之明顯限制。此外，由於利用奈米結構抑制材料破裂之特性並不侷限於單晶矽，
因而此重要成果深具未來發展潛力，日後針對不同基材，利用不同之表面奈米結構化製程，
Topic: 2011 Transducer Conference 
Host: Beijing University, CN 
Venue: CNCC (國家會議中心), north to Olympic Park by a block 
 
The opening day coincides with the day “Dragon Boat Festival,” which is the holiday. 
The biannual conference Transducer 2011 is the series of 16th since the one in Boston 
30 yrs ago (1981). The conference will be hosted in Kaohsiung six years later. 
 
The opening begins with three delegates from government who address the impact 
and the connection of the conference with the development plan in China. All of 
them spoke in Chinese while the screen projected shows the translation. The 
statistical data showed that Top five presenting countries at this conference are USA, 
Japan, China, Taiwan and Germany in sequence. Taiwan is counted independently as 
usual at this conference even in China. 
 
Transducer 2013 will be held in June 16‐20, 2013 in Barcelona, Spain. The flyer is so 
colorful that you won’t forget the invitation from Spanish’s enthusiasm. The abstract 
deadline is Dec. 2, 2012. 
 
My research group presented two papers at the conference. The acceptance 
percentage this year is 45% (758 out 1693 abstracts submitted), which is slightly 
below what occurred to my group (2 accepted out of 3 manuscripts submitted.) 
About 1,200 participants show up at the conference this year, compared to 900 
registered two years ago. 
 
The photo shows three professors from Taiwan, including myself. The other two are 
Prof. Shih at National Taiwan Univ. and Prof. Lin at National SYS Univ. 
 
 
6/6 (Mon.) 
Three plenary speakers gave their talks after the opening at 8:30am. The three 
presenters from three continentals are H. Fujita (Japan), R. Howe (USA) and R. 
Zengerle (Germany). 
 
H. Fujita: New Trends of MEMS/NEMS based on Heterogeneous Process Integration – 
Towards Life/Green Innovation 
R. Howe: Vacuum Microsystems for Energy Conversion and Other Applications 
R. Zengerle: Microfluidic Solutions for Miniaturization, Integration, Automation and 
Parallelization of Tests on Commercially Available Instruments 
 
Microfluidic microsystems probably initiate dated back to 1990. After twenty years, 
the publication a year reaches 3,000 based on the title keyword search of ISI. 
 
Energy harvesting is a long‐sustaining research topic but still cannot reach a critical 
point. For microsystems, portable high‐density energy generator is of importance. 
Without energy source, the output power is very limited. Nevertheless, the sub‐field 
is still under development under the umbrella of the energy concern. Where will it 
go? 
 
6/7 (Tue.) 
The field of microsystem still lacks of momentum to transfer research to product 
- 1 - 
國立清華大學補助之2010- 4th NAMIS INTERNATIONAL AUTUMN 
SCHOOL訪問成果報告書 
 
 
系所單位 奈微所 日期 99年 10月17日~22日 
申請人姓名 高崑維 職稱 博士班學生 
系所單位 奈微所 聯絡電話 62402 
Email S9835812@m98.nthu.edu.tw 
以下注意事項 
1. 內容至多400字 
2. 可條列式陳述 
3. 附照片尤佳 
 
一、 訪問經過及心得： 
本次「2010  NAMIS INTERNATIONAL AUTUMN SCHOOL」由日本東京大學主辦，
在其駒場校區一連舉辦6天，由Dr. Dominique Collard、Teruo FUJII、Hiroyuki NOJI、
Sunghoon KWON、Beomjoon KIM、等十多位教授為來自台灣、日本、美國、義大
利、法國、韓國、德國的60多位學生講課並進行生物、光電路實驗學習課程。並帶領
參觀了雄踞於日本富士山腳下全世界知名的ROBOTICS以及機械輔助設計工具製造領
導廠商：FANUC的研發大樓，而在NAMIS的最後一天，特地由獲頒日本三十大最具
貢獻科學獎並為世界量子光學權威的Yasuhiko ARAKAWA教授來進行講課。總計在活
動期間共參與了超過19門的課程、參訪了東京大學內6所頂尖實驗室、進行2項實驗實
作、並進行了一項企業參訪以及大量的分組討論及報告。 
(一) 東大駒場校區：進行講課、實作、小組討論、個人報告及參訪的主要活動場所。 
    
   
(二) 光電路與生物實習實作課程：製作微型自動辨識機器人以及生物DNA實驗實作。 
    
(三) FANUC以及東京大學山中寮：參訪富士山腳下占地超過200公頃的黃色巨人
FANUC，當晚於東大山中寮繼續進行講課同時學生並參與提問。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫三：永續光電動力之仿生飛行撲翼設計與驗證
計畫主持人: 葉哲良
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-007-027- 學門領域: 航太科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
