 2
綠色網路探索者：專為低功率多核心系統設計之晶片互連網路
電子系統層級設計探索平台 
 
gNoCExplorer ：ESL-based NoC Design Space Exploration Platform for 
Low-Power Multi-Core SoC 
 
 
計畫編號：NSC 98－2220－E－035－001 
執行期間：98年8月1日 ～ 99年7月31日 
計畫主持人：張貴忠  逢甲大學資訊工程系助理教授 
 
 
計畫摘要 
對連結多核心處理器 SoC而言，多核心
連結影響整個多核心的資料傳送效能，以及
依不同設計約佔整體10~30%的能源消耗。如
果多核心連結 IP能提供針對多核心資料傳輸
規格進行可調整的功率/能源模型，便可以提
供在架構設計之初的參數選擇。多核心處理
器功率/能源模型的建構在現今快速發展的嵌
入式系統產業中已逐漸顯示其重要性。使用
虛擬平台在嵌入式系統開發初期，為了希望
即早發現系統耗能的瓶頸，必須仰賴準確且
可信賴的耗能模型。 
本計畫將基於ESL環境來設計晶片互連
網路（NoC）效能評估系統，我們採用C++
與SystemC建立整體的模擬環境，本年度的計
畫中我們完成了兩個不同系統階層的模擬環
境 ， 第 一 個 是 週 期 精 確 階 層 （ Cycle 
Accurate），另一個為較高層之具有時間關係
之設計師階層（PVT），如果需要非常精確
與底層的模擬資訊的話，可以採用  CA 階
層，如果只是需要驗證通訊系統功能的話，
可以採用TLM階層進行快速模擬，我們在平
台中設計簡易的功率模型來讓模擬系統平台
能夠量測出晶片通訊系統內各元件的功率消
耗，很多研究都提出理論性的功率評估的計
算方式，本研究參考了以往的研究成果來發
展出一套可以適用於ESL階段設計的功率評
估方法，讓ESL設計流程中也能夠及早評估
出通訊系統的消耗狀況。 
本計畫研究成果，目前已經發表了2篇
會議論文[P1,P2]，預計年底會在投稿期刊。 
. 
ABSTRACT 
NoC architectures have to deliver good 
latency-throughput performance in the face of 
very tight power and area budgets. 
Interconnection networks consume 20%-36% of 
total system power in many large SoCs. Live 
power measurement is necessary for both 
hardware and software designer, but it requires 
too much time for simulation, especially for 
embedded systems. Since all the facts show that 
high-level or system-level power estimation is 
important, therefore, recent studies have focused 
their solutions on various levels, including 
program optimization for low power. 
Designers are hungry for electronic system-
level (ESL) methodologies and supporting tools 
that can raise the abstraction level of design 
entry and enhance the global analysis and 
exploration of design trade-offs. In this project, 
we use SystemC to build a high-level NoC 
simulation platform for multi-core SoCs based 
on TLM-PVT. The advantages of using system-
level design are high performance and easy to 
explore optimal designs in large design space. It 
can also provide easy and fast simulation 
environments for modules to trace and estimate 
their designs. Clearly, high-level NoC 
architecture power ignores many detailed 
activities of the component power; however, the 
proposed approach enables an easy analysis 
framework that is much faster than cycle-
accurate simulations. The feature can help 
 4
 
 
Fig. 1： Project Overview 
 
The main contribution of this project is that 
we design a two-level design space exploration 
(DSE) platform based on SystemC simulation 
for NoC designs, shown as Figure 1. The first 
level is the cycle-accurate level, which simulate 
the NoC architectures in low-level cycle-
accurate designs to provide more accurate 
results. The second level is the programmer 
view with time (PVT-TLM), which is based on 
high-level TLM model to simulate the NoC 
behaviors to provide high-speed simulation 
results.  
The advantages of using system-level design 
are high performance and easy to explore 
optimal designs in large design space. It can also 
provide easy and fast simulation environments 
for modules to trace and estimate their designs. 
Clearly, high-level NoC architecture power 
ignores many detailed activities of the 
component power; however, the proposed 
approach enables an easy analysis framework 
that is much faster than cycle-accurate 
simulations. The feature can help designers to 
design an optimal NoC architecture from large 
design space quickly and easily. 
Our method has great performance than gate-
level simulation. In this simulator we have to 
design a power model for NoC components used 
by the analysis modules for power estimation. 
The power consumption of NoC components 
can be estimated by the traffic information in the 
NoC with the proposed high-level power model. 
In addition, we will build GUI display 
components to show simulation results. The 
traffic pattern translator is in charge of translate 
high-level traffic patterns to low-level traffic 
patterns for the same trace file. 
In this project, we use SystemC to implement 
the simulator kernel. SystemC provides a single 
language to define hardware and software 
components, it provides a single language to 
facilitate seamless hardware software co-
simulation, and provides a single language to 
facilitate step-by-step refinement of a system 
design down to the register transfer level for 
synthesis, shown as Figure 2.  
 
 
 
Fig. 2： ESL Design Flow 
 
3. THE PROPOSED APPROACHE 
 
3.1 System Architecture 
Figure 3 shows the architecture of the 
proposed Unified System-Level NoC Design 
Space Explore Platform (gNoCExplorer) system, 
which consists of several components, and each 
component is responsible to execute several 
functionalities. In this project, we attempt to 
design an electronic system-level NoC 
simulation framework to provide early and fast 
 6
constructing the interconnection topology, we 
can apply other optimization mechanisms 
according to the application traffic 
characteristics and the interconnection 
architecture. 
 
 
 
Fig. 4： ESL Design flow for NoCs 
 
3.3  Implementations for different levels 
Figure 5 shows the communication concepts 
of cycle-accurate level and TLM level. In cycle-
accurate level, the detail design of the router is 
simulated, including the buffer, the routing 
policy, and switching behavior. The transmitted 
data size depends on the channel width. We can 
account correct switching factors of each 
component in a router because the 
communication behavior is bit-accurate. The 
sequence of the communication traffic is 
simulated according to the trace files, and the 
contention status in each router can be simulated 
in the level. 
The TLM simplifies the description of inter-
module communication transactions using 
objects and channels between router modules. In 
TLM, detail related to the sequence of packets is 
omitted. Transactions are performed through 
channels instead of signals as shown in Figure 
6(b). The channels implement one or several 
interfaces, and each interface has a set of read or 
write functions are instantiated by masters and 
sent through the port to the channel interface. At 
the level of slaves, the transaction will be 
recovered to execute the corresponding routing 
methods and to transport the message to the next 
node. In TLM level, a timing model is defined to 
approximate the execution time. The timing is 
estimated according to the design of the router, 
including switch structure, routing policy, and 
the buffer size. Changing router behavior may 
alter the accuracy of performance estimation. 
 
 
 
Fig. 5： CA vs. TLM communications. 
 
3.4 High-Level Power Measurement 
 
3.4.1 Two-Phase Power Estimation 
For high-level fast simulation we have to 
previously measure the power consumption of 
the key components in the network router. We 
store these power models in files for later 
simulations. In phase 2, we will analysis the 
traffic characteristics in the interconnect 
architecture and gather access counts and bit 
switching activities. With the gathered 
information we can estimate the rough power 
consumption of each router. 
 
3.4.2 Power Models for different levels 
In the platform we have to provide two 
different power models for high and low 
simulation levels. 
For low-level power model, we can estimate 
 8
4.1 Experimental Environment 
We design an evaluation flow as shown in 
Figure 7 that starts from application 
specifications, continues through the topology 
construction of the application. At first we use 
the simplescalar to simulate applications and 
collect the data flow. Then the Read/Write 
analyzer will analyze the communication 
behaviors between the writer cores and reader 
cores, and it will generate a core flow graph. 
The test pattern generator will analyze the 
communication statistics between writers and 
readers, and then generates the simulation 
workloads for final simulations. The workload 
content includes access address, write data, read 
data, and request, etc. After profiling, we get the 
communication status of cores, and then 
generate the simulation patterns for Verilog 
simulator. Finally, we can get power and 
performance results to evaluate our design. 
The power models for the arbiter, buffer, 
crossbar, and the wire have been calibrated with 
Nanosim simulations of these components over 
different technologies. We also compare the 
speed and the accuracy between these two 
simulation levels. 
 
 
 
Fig. 7： The evaluation flow of the experiments. 
 
4.2 Case Study. 
 
 
 
Fig. 8： MPEG-4 decoder mapping topologies. 
 
We take the MPEG-4 decoder as our case 
study, and Figure 8 shows the profiled core flow 
graph of MPEG-4 application and the 
experimental interconnection architectures with 
power-aware mapping described in [17]. Figure 
8(b) is the compared topology, and the power-
aware topology generated by the proposed tool 
is shown as Figure 8(c). In the experiments, the 
ratio of the power saving approximates to 35% 
of the NoC compared to the referenced topology. 
The power saving measured by low-level power 
measurement in [17] approximates to 29%. 
From the results we can find that the high-level 
simulator can identify the optimal 
communication architecture. 
Figure 9 shows the simulation results by CA 
level. The top of the figure shows the average 
latency of a packet traversed from the source to 
the target. The down of the figure shows the 
average dynamic power consumption of each 
router. Figure 10 shows the simulation results by 
TLM level for the same traffic flow. From the 
two figures we can find that the error rate 
between these two levels is small, and the power 
consumption distributions between routers are 
almost the same.  
 
 10
 
 
6. REFERENCES 
[1] Tony Trawick, “Multicore communication: 
today and the future,” Embedded Computing 
Design, March 2007. 
[2] J. Flich, S. Rodrigo, J. Duato, T. Sodring, A.G. 
Solheim, T. Skeie, and O. Lysne, “On the 
Potential of NoC Virtualization for Multicore 
Chips,” International Conference on Complex, 
Intelligent and Software Intensive Systems, 
March 2008. 
[3] Benini L, De Micheli G, “Networks on chips: a 
new SoC paradigm,” IEEE Comput Magazine, 
January 2002,  pp. 70–78. 
[4] Dally WJ, Towles B, “Route packets, not wires: 
on-chip interconnection networks,” In: 
Proceedings of design and automation 
conference, June 2001, pp. 684–689. 
[5] SOTERIOU, V. AND PEH, L.-S. Design-space 
exploration of power-aware on/off 
interconnection networks. In Proceedings of the 
IEEE International Conference on Computer 
Design (ICCD). 510–517, 2004. 
[6] D. Gajski et al. “SpecC: Specification Language 
and Methodology,” Kluwer, Jan 2000. 
[7] L. Cai and D. Gajski, “Transaction Level 
Modeling: An Overview,” Proc. CODES+ISSS, 
pp. 19-24, Newport Beach, CA, Oct. 2003. 
[8] Chris Lennard and Nizar Romdhane, “Building a 
virtual-platform Design Ecosystem through 
Open System-level Integration Strategies”, 
Design Strategies and Methodologies, vol 5, no 4, 
pp. 52-57, 2006 
[9] Naehyuck Chang, Kwanho Kim, and Hyung Gyu 
Lee. Cycle-accurate energy measurement and 
characterization with a case study of the 
arm7tdmi. IEEE Transactions on Very Scale 
Integration Systems, 10(2), April 2002. 
[10] Robert P. Dick, Ganesh 
Lakshminarayana,Anand Raghunathan, and 
Niraj K. Jha. Analysis of power dissipation in 
embedded systems using real-time operating 
systems. IEEE Transaction on computer-aided 
design of integrated circuits and systems, 22(5), 
2003. 
[11] Canturk Isci and Margaret Martonosi. Run-
time power monitoring in high-end processors: 
Methodology and empirical data. In Proceedings 
of the 36th International Symposium on 
Microarchitecture, December 2003. 
[12] D. Shin, H. Shim, Y. Joo, H. Yun, J. Kim, 
and N Chang. Energy monitoring tool for low-
power embedded programs. IEEE Design and 
Test of Computers, 19(4), July 2002. 
[13] Greg Stitt, Frank Vahid, Tony Givargis, and 
Roman Lysecky. A _rst-step towards an 
architecture tuning methodology for low power. 
In Proceedings of the International conference 
on Compilers, architectures, and synthesis for 
embedded systems, pages 187-192, November 
2000. 
[14] Robert P. Dick, Ganesh Lakshminarayana, 
Anand Raghunathan, and Niraj K. Jha. Power 
analysis of embedded operating systems. In 
Proceedings of the 36th conference on Design 
automation conference, pages 312{315, June 
2000. 
[15] Tajana Simunic, Luca Benini, and Giovanni 
DeMicheli. Cycle-accurate simulation of energy 
consumption in embedded systems. In 
Proceedings of the 36th ACM/IEEE conference 
on Design automation conference, pages 867-
872, June 1999. 
[16] W. Ye, N. Vijaykrishnan, M. Kandemir, and 
M. J. Irwin. The design and use of simplepower: 
a cycle-accurate energy estimation tool. In 
Proceedings of the 37th conference on Design 
automation, pages 340-345, June 2000. 
[17]  Kuei-Chung Chang, Jih-Sheng Shen and 
Tien-Fu Chen, “Tailoring Circuit-Switched 
Network-on-Chips to Application-Specific 
System-on-Chip by Two Optimization Schemes”, 
to appear in ACM Transaction on Design 
Automation of Electronic Systems, Vol. 13, No. 
1, Article 12 , January 2008 
 
7. PUBLICATIONS 
[P1] Kuei-Chung Chang, "System-Level Power 
Estimation Platform for Network-on-Chip," 
IEEE Symposium on Low-Power and High-
Speed Chips (COOL Chips XIII) , 187 , 2010-04. 
Yokohama, Japan. 
[P2] Kuei-Chung Chang and Ing-Ming Liao, 
"Priority-based Network-on-Chip for Multi-Core 
SoCs," IEEE Symposium on Low-Power and 
High-Speed Chips (COOL Chips XIII) , 191 , 
2010-04. Yokohama, Japan. 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
1. 會議議程 
2. 會議論文集（光碟） 
 
五、其    他 
 
發表論文摘要： 
 
 Hardware designers are steadily decreasing the size of chip structures and the supply 
voltages. Furthermore, system power management techniques implemented by the 
operating are used to reduce energy consumption. However, due to the fact that the 
number of gates and the clock frequencies are constantly increasing, overall power 
consumption is still a limiting design factor. Live power measurement is necessary for 
both hardware and software designer, but it requires too much time for simulation, 
especially for embedded systems. The major contribution of this paper is to present a 
simple method for rapidly estimating power consumption and find the hot spots in the 
network-on-chip(NoC) at run time. The platform, implemented by SystemC, allows early 
exploration of the performance and power consumption of NoC, which is able to handle 
arbitrary topologies and routing schemes. The simulator implements flit-level 
message-passing mechanism and supports application data specified as input trace files or 
generated at run-time by synthetic traffic generators. 
 
 
 *This work was supported by National Science Council under               
Grant No. NSC98-2220-E-035 -001. 
Priority-based Network-on-Chip for Multi-Core SoCs 
Kuei-Chung Chang and Ing-Ming Liao 
Department of Information Engineering and Computer Science, Feng-Chia University 
changkc@fcu.edu.tw 
Abstract 
To alleviate the complex communication problems 
that arise as the number of on-chip components in-
creases, network-on-chip architectures have been re-
cently proposed to increase the performance of the en-
tre systems. On the embedded system, the scope of the 
categories and the applications are more and more 
complex and extensive [1-3]. Hence, in this paper we 
propose a specific router for NoC to tackle some of the 
challenges on the multicore SoCs.  
The proposed router for the mesh network topology 
is one kind of the direct networks. Therefore we adopt 5 
input/output ports, which 4 ports connect 4 routers and 
another port connects the local PE. And in our router 
architecture, we propose the capability of priority to 
support some of the different situations. When short 
packet, such as control signals, and long packet, such as 
data, want to transmit, we can set up the short packet to 
high priority, therefore the short packet can pass earlier 
during the long packet transmit, doesn’t waste a lot of 
time to wait long packet pass. For example, the priori-
ty-based NoC can drastically decrease cache access la-
tency and speed up the total program running time. 
 
Fig. 1： The design block of the proposed router. 
In the proposed router, each port has 3 virtual chan-
nels, 1 priority channel and 2 normal channels, as 
shown in Fig. 1. When short packet is transmitted into 
the router, it will be send to the priority virtual channel. 
When distribute the output channel, the priority virtual 
channel will be the first one to get the right of using the 
output channel, and therefore the short packet can be 
transmitted first. 
The flow of a flit traversing the router is shown in 
Fig. 2. When a flit is transmitted into a router, it will be 
first stored in the input FIFO buffer. If the packet is a 
priority packet, it will be stored in the priority channel; 
otherwise it will be stored in the normal virtual channel. 
If the flit is a header flit, it will be copied to the routing 
module to generate a signal called OVC which is the 
output virtual channel would be transmitted. After 
routing, it starts virtual channel allocation. In this step, it 
arbitrates the right of using the output virtual channels 
which are requested by several input virtual channels 
simultaneously. When a header flit wins the arbitration, 
the right of using the output virtual channel will be kept 
until the end of the packet has completely accomplished 
transmission. If a header flit loses the arbitration, it will 
keep trying until success. 
Fig. 2： The flow of the routing in the router. 
The header flit which wins the right of using the 
output virtual channel in the virtual channel allocation 
step will keep starting the switch allocation step. In this 
step, it will determine whose input-output virtual chan-
nel pairs can use the crossbar. If a flit loses the arbitra-
tion, it will keep trying until success. 
In the virtual channel allocation and switch alloca-
tion step, the arbitration depends on the setting of the 
priority. The priority virtual channel has higher priority 
than normal virtual channel. And the priority of normal 
virtual channels will exchange for fairness when each 
time one of them wins the arbitration. 
After the switch allocation, the input-output relation 
of crossbar will be set, and a flit will pass through the 
crossbar to the next router. If the packet is multicasting 
and this processing element (PE) is one of the destina-
tions, the flit will also be retransmitted to the other input 
virtual channel which the buffer is not full. And this 
time the flit will be transmitted to the PE. 
In the experiments, we use Modelsim and Synopsys 
design analyzer to verify and synthesize the RTL design 
of the NoC. The area of the extra control components 
occupies the area of the whole router approximated to 
7%. We examine the MPEG-4 decoder speedup using a 
priority-based NoC. We observe that the priority-based 
NoC improves the overall system performance approx-
imated to 10%. 
 [ REFERENCE ] 
[1] Yu-Xuan Lin, “design of a reconfigurable Noc 
Router with AMBA-based network interface,” 
NCKU, R.O.C thesis for Master of Science, August 
2006. 
[2] Shin-Hsun Hsu, “Design and Implementation of a 
Router for Network-on-Chip,” NCKU, R.O.C thesis 
for Master of Science, June 2005. 
[3] Yuho Jin, Eim Jung Kim, and Ki Hwan Yum,  “A 
Domain-Specific On-Chip Network Design for 
Large Scale Cache Systems,”  IEEE 13th Interna-
tional Symposium on High Performance Computer 
Architecture, 2007. HPCA 2007, 10-14 Feb. 2007.
h e a d  f l i t ?
r o u t i n g  
u n i t
v i r t u a l  c h a n n e l  
a l l o c a t i o n
O V C  
a l l o c a t e d ?
s w i t c h  
a l l o c a t i o n
o p c  
a l l o c a t e d
?
s w i t c h  
t r a v e r s e d
N o
Y e s
N o
N o
Y e s
Y e s
O V C
o p c
f l i t  
a r r i v e s
f l i t  
l e a v e s
Y e s
M u l t i c a s t ?
Y e s
N o o p c
f l i t
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
1. 會議議程 
2. 會議論文集（光碟） 
 
五、其    他 
 
發表論文摘要： 
 
 Hardware designers are steadily decreasing the size of chip structures and the supply 
voltages. Furthermore, system power management techniques implemented by the 
operating are used to reduce energy consumption. However, due to the fact that the 
number of gates and the clock frequencies are constantly increasing, overall power 
consumption is still a limiting design factor. Live power measurement is necessary for 
both hardware and software designer, but it requires too much time for simulation, 
especially for embedded systems. The major contribution of this paper is to present a 
simple method for rapidly estimating power consumption and find the hot spots in the 
network-on-chip(NoC) at run time. The platform, implemented by SystemC, allows early 
exploration of the performance and power consumption of NoC, which is able to handle 
arbitrary topologies and routing schemes. The simulator implements flit-level 
message-passing mechanism and supports application data specified as input trace files or 
generated at run-time by synthetic traffic generators. 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張貴忠 計畫編號：98-2220-E-035-001- 
計畫名稱：綠色網路探索者：專為低功率多核心系統設計之晶片互連網路電子系統層級設計探索平台
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
