NSC 97-2221-E-007-133 成果報告2
【計畫背景】
由於消費性電子產品的蓬勃發展造就了非揮發記憶體在市場上的需求與日俱增，許多
次世代的技術紛紛被提出來克服使用浮動閘極(floating gate)為基礎的非揮發記憶體產品在
穿隧氧化層(tunnel oxide)微縮以及寫入抹除速度緩慢的缺點，此外由於傳統矽電子元件在
微縮已經瀕臨極限，為了進一步提升元件效能，許多新穎的技術也紛紛問世，其中如利用
鍺(Germanium)與生俱來的高遷移率(mobility)來克服驅動電流上的不足就是個相當有潛力
的次世代技術，本團隊先前已經成功開發出於矽晶基板上磊晶鍺層並於其上成長高品質之
二氧化矽之技術。此技術之重要特色在於矽晶基板上之磊晶鍺層可作為鍺電晶體之通道材
料而二氧化矽亦可作為磊晶鍺層良好的表面鈍化層與閘極介電層。
在此基礎之上，本團隊領先其他研究機構以 SiO2 為穿隧介電層(tunnel dielectric)完成
世界上第一個製作於單晶鍺膜上之 SONOS 形式非揮發性記憶體元件。由於此非揮發性記
憶體對穿隧介面層之品質要求非常高以維持優異之可靠度表現，因此可藉由此記憶體之資
料保存能力(retention)與操作耐久度(endurance)之表現評估此穿隧介面層之品質，另一個更
深層的面向即在於此穿隧介電層可實現鍺膜上高速記憶體，開啟鍺元件另一個前瞻之應用
領域。將非揮發性記憶體製作於單晶鍺膜上的優點包括:
(a). 使用鍺作為通道材質對於記憶體元件最直接的影響即是其驅動電流會因為優異之載子
遷移率大幅提昇因而可以提高讀取資料的速度。另一方面也意味著可以在較低的電壓下
達到與傳統矽通道元件之電流驅動力，有助於低電壓操作元件之開發。
(b). 若採用鍺作為源/汲極則可因其能隙(bandgap)降低而益助其一次衝擊離子化(primary
impact ionization)之效率進而增加高能電子/電洞對(electron/hole pairs)之數量與寫入效
能。同樣地，對於二次衝擊離子化(secondary impact ionization)效率也會因採用能隙較小
之鍺作為源極/汲極而大幅提昇，亦有助於提升寫入速度。至於抹除的操作，除了常見
的FN 穿隧外，另一種更具效率的方式即為傳導帶-價帶(conduction band-valence band)
間穿隧引發熱電洞注入(band to band tunneling induced hot hole injection, BBHH)的抹除
機制，此機制主要是在汲極與閘極(gate)間施以適當電壓在深度空乏區(deep depletion)
產生傳導帶-價帶間之穿隧電流(band-to-band tunneling)，電子會流向施加高電壓之汲極
而電洞則會因側向電場獲得能量並注入至浮動閘極與已寫入的電子複合達到抹除之效
果。而採用能隙較小之鍺作為源極/汲極亦可提高傳導帶-價帶間之穿隧電流進而加速抹
除之操作。
儘管鍺通道非揮發性記憶體可以預期會有極佳的操作速度，然而在文獻上卻從未有類
似的報導，其主要的原因可能來自於目前缺乏可有效鈍化(passivate)鍺通道的介電層作為穿
隧氧化層以及鍺基板之成本過高。本計畫的研究成果成功地突破了過去發展的限制，其最
主要的意義不僅在於確認單晶鍺膜上之thermal SiO2品質極為優異，可應用至記憶體之穿隧
氧化層，更開啟了鍺通道記憶體之研究開發。預計此技術將對於次世代高速低耗能之記憶
體元件的開發具有關鍵性的影響。
NSC 97-2221-E-007-133 成果報告4
年度計畫成果
矽晶基板上開發製作於單晶鍺膜之 SONOS 類型非揮發記憶體
Ge-based silicon-oxide-nitride-oxide-silicon-type nonvolatile memory formed
on Si substrate
Yung-HsienWu, Jia-RongWu, Min-LinWu, Lun-Lun Chen, and Yuan-Sheng Lin
Department of Engineering and System Science, National Tsing-Hua University, 300, Hsinchu,
Taiwan
中文摘要
本計畫成功地開發出在矽晶基板上之單晶鍺膜以熱二氧化矽作為穿隧氧化層之
SONOS 記憶體。寬廣的磁滯記憶窗口（hysteresis memory window）、高速操作速度（利用
-16 伏特、1 毫秒去抹除得到 4.2 伏特的平帶電壓位移）、操作 105 次之後幾乎沒有記憶窗口
劣化的情形、資料保持度在 10 年之後僅有 15%的電荷流失等電性證實此矽晶基板鍺記憶
體是相當有前瞻性的。我們觀察到此元件在寫入與抹除速度上擁有非對稱性表現，本研究
不僅討論其不對稱操作之機制亦提出改善此現象的方法。最重要的是此矽晶基板鍺層記憶
體可以完全與現今的 ULSI 技術相容並且在次世代非揮發記憶體上提供了一個新的開端。
關鍵詞：鍺非揮發性記憶體、計憶窗口、非對稱操作、操作耐久度、資料保存能力
I. ABSTRACT
With Si substrate, the silicon-oxide-nitride-oxide-silicon (SONOS)-type nonvolatile memory
formed on Ge layer with thermal SiO2 as the tunnel dielectric was explored in this work. The
promising performance of the Ge-based memory was evidenced by the large hysteresis memory
window, the high operation speed of 4.2 V flatband voltage shift by erasing at -16 V for 1 ms, the
negligible memory window degradation up to 105 operation cycles and a good retention
characteristic with 15 % charge loss after 10-year operation. The asymmetry in programming and
erasing speed was observed and the mechanism along with the approaches to alleviate this
phenomenon was also discussed. Most importantly, the Ge-based memory device can be
implemented by the process fully compatible with existent ultra-large-scale integration (ULSI)
technology and it paves the way to enable high-performance nonvolatile memory for the
next-generation electronic system.
Keyword：Ge-based nonvolatile memory, memory window, asymmetric operation, endurance,
retention.
II. INTRODUCTION
Ge-based MOS devices have exhibited the great potential to drive the next-generation ULSI
NSC 97-2221-E-007-133 成果報告6
device. The detailed process condition was disclosed in our previous publications and references
therein.9 Note that the Ge layer is formed on a layer with mixture of SiGe and oxide instead of
forming on Si substrate directly; the lattice mismatch is not as large as that formed directly on Si
substrate which suggests that 12 nm Ge layer does not exceed the critical thickness. On the other
hand, from previous TEM analysis,9 the amount of dislocation is very tiny and the Ge layer is
nearly a dislocation-free one because of the underlying oxide. In fact, from our recent research
result12 which employed this Ge layer as the channel and source/drain material for MOSFET
device, satisfactory carrier mobility as well as the junction leakage have been achieved which
indicates that dislocation is not an issue for devices using this Ge layer. Next, Si3N4 film of 14.0
nm with refractive index of 1.988 measured at wavelength of 633 nm was deposited in the
low-pressure chemical vapor deposition (LPCVD) reactor as the charge trapping layer. Then a
blocking oxide was formed by 13.0 nm SiO2 deposition in a LPCVD reactor using
tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) as the precursor. In addition, thermal SiO2 of 10 nm directly grown on
Si substrate with the same charge trapping layer and blocking oxide as the Ge-based memory
were also fabricated as the Si control devices to assess the impact of channel material on memory
performance. Finally the front-side gate electrode of the memory device was formed by
aluminum (Al) deposition, patterning and 400 oC N2 annealing. Deposition of Al as the back-side
electrode was also performed to reduce the contact resistance after back surface oxide stripping.
Since the tunnel dielectric quality is the major concern for the Ge-based memory, the devices
without Si3N4 film deposition were also prepared to verify whether the charges are stored in the
tunnel dielectric or in the Si3N4 film. Note that although the advantages of the Ge-based memory
should be verified by transistor-type devices, to achieve the desirable Ge-based memory, the
basic memory effect and the tunnel dielectric should be first qualified and therefore
capacitor-type devices were employed in this work to assess the electrical characteristics. Once
the related performance has been characterized, the corresponding memory devices in transistor
form will be discussed elsewhere. Time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (TOF-SIMS)
which possesses the depth resolution of 0.8 nm was employed to investigate the Ge distribution
near the Ge layer/tunnel dielectric interface. During the SIMS analysis, different samples were
concurrently sent to SIMS instrument to ensure the same measurement condition. The depth
profiles of the samples were obtained by using the Ga+ primary ion gun for analysis and a Cs+
low energy gun (1 KeV) for sputtering. In addition, high resolution cross-sectional transmission
electron microscopy (HRTEM) was used to characterize the thickness of each layer. The
program/erase operation was performed by pulse generator while the electrical analyses such as
capacitance-voltage (C-V) characteristics and flatband voltage (VFB) during program/erase were
analyzed by precision LCR meter.
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Fig. 1 illustrates the device structure of the Ge-based memory. Shown in Fig. 2 are the
NSC 97-2221-E-007-133 成果報告8
constant (ε) of the SiGeOx is between GeO2 (Eg: 5.7 eV, ε:~7)15 and SiO2 (Eg: 9 eV, ε: 3.9), the 
tunnel dielectric has the structure similar to that of VARIable Oxide Thickness (VARIOT)
dielectric.16 For this VARIOT-like tunnel dielectric, if electrons are tunneling from the Si3N4 film,
they experience a thinner barrier because the electric field redistributes in the two layers due to
Gauss’ law as shown in the left of Fig. 4(b) which coresponds to erase operation and 
consequently makes a higher speed. On the other hand, for program operation, electrons are
tunneling from Ge layer and experience two barriers as shown in the right of Fig. 4(b) which
makes the tunneling more difficult and therefore a slower speed. This mechanism also explains
the less significant asymmetry in operation speed for the memory with 90-min FGA in which
less SiGeOx at the Ge layer/tunnel dielectric interface is expected by longer reduction process.
Because of the opposite arrangement of the high-permittivity (high-k) and low-k layer in the
tunnel dielectric, it is reasonable that the memory device in this work demonstrates a superior
erasing speed rather than an improved programming speed as a memory with a conventional
VARIOT structure. It is worth noting that as compared with the tunnel dielectric of the Si control
device which is pure SiO2, the tunnel dielectric that consists of the thin SiGeOx and the bulk SiO2
for the Ge-based SONOS memory would results in a smaller effective oxide thickness (EOT)
and benefits from the VARIOT structure, both facilitate electron tunneling and therefore leads to
a higher operation speed, either for 60-min or 90-min FGA memory device. The
above-mentioned mechanism that elucidates the operation asymmetry is further verified by Fig.
5 which reveals the depth profile analyzed by TOF-SIMS for the devices with different FGA
time. As the FGA time increases from 60 min to 90 min, the Ge-O content near the interface
decreases and this result can be explained by the fact that a longer FGA time facilitates the
reduction process. From the low energy SIMS analysis, it also presents that the maximum Ge
concentration is located at the tunnel SiO2/Ge layer interface and is estimated to be 4.3 and 1.6 at.
% for the sample with 60 and 90-min FGA respectively. In addition, the Ge concentration
approaches 99.3 at.% for the epitaxial layer which is consistent with that analyzed by XRD9 and
it is the reason why the term “nearly pure Ge” is used in the experimental section. Since the 
tunnel dielectric of the device with different FGA time exhibits nearly the same thickness as
evidenced by Fig. 2, the more symmetric operation speed for the device with prolonged FGA
time can be attributed to the reduced Ge-O content near the interface which leads to a more
symmetric band diagram. Nevertheless the operation speed is still asymmetric for the device with
longer FGA time because of the lower barrier height during erase operation, this asymmetry can
be further minimized by modulating the trap levels of the SiN film through the change of Si/N
ratio.17 Note that further improved operation speed and reduced operation voltage can be
achieved by employing high-k material as the blocking oxide which enhances electric field over
tunnel SiO2 18 or by further scaling down the tunnel SiO2. In fact, the thickness of the tunnel SiO2
on Ge layer has been successfully further scaled down by a 2-step etching back process in dilute
HF solution at 25 oC. During the first step, the thermal SiO2 was thinned down to be 5.30 nm by
NSC 97-2221-E-007-133 成果報告10
characteristic with 15 % charge loss after 10-year operation. In addition, the asymmetry in
programming and erasing speed has been discussed and the possible approaches to alleviate it
have also been proposed. Most importantly, the process to form the Ge-based memory can be
fully integrated with incumbent ULSI technology and paves the way to fulfill the next-generation
nonvolatile memory.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan under Contract NSC
97-2221-E-007-133 and NSC 97-2120-M-009-008.
REFERENCES
1. Y. H. Wu, M. L. Wu, Y. S. Lin, and J. R. Wu, IEEE Electron Device Lett. 30, 72 (2009).
2. Y. H. Wu, M. L. Wu, J. R. Wu, and Y. S. Lin, Int. Conf. on Solid State Devices and
Materials 2008, 762.
3. Y. Kamata, Material Today 11, 30 (2008).
4. D. Kuzum, A. J. Pethe, T. Krishnamohan, Y. Oshima, Y. Sun, J. P. McVittie, P. A. Pianetta,
P. C. McIntyre, and K. C. Saraswat, Tech. Dig. - Int. Electron Devices Meet. 2007, 723.
5. S. Joshi, C. Krug, D. Heh, H. J. Na, H. R. Harris, J. W. Oh, P. D. Kirsch, P. Majhi, B. H.
Lee, H. H. Tseng, R. Jammy, J. C. Lee, and S. K. Banerjee, IEEE Electron Device Lett. 28,
308 (2007).
6. D. S. Yu, A. Chin, C. C. Liao, C. F. Lee, C. F. Cheng, M. F. Li, W. J. Yoo, and S. P.
McAlister, IEEE Electron Device Lett. 26, 118 (2005).
7. D. L. Kencke, X. Wang, Q. Ouyang, S. Mudanai, A. Tasch, and S. K. Banerjee, Tech. Dig. -
Int. Electron Devices Meet. 2000, 105.
8. C. C. Wang, K. C. Chang-Liao, C. Y. Lu, and T. K. Wang, IEEE Electron Device Lett. 27,
749 (2006).
9. Y. H. Wu, J. R. Wu, and M. L. Wu, Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 093503 (2007).
10. Y. H. Wu, J. R. Wu, Y. S. Lin, and M. L. Wu, Appl. Phys. Lett. 93, 083506 (2008).
11. Y. H. Wu, W. J. Chen, A. Chin, and C. Tsai, Appl. Phys. Lett. 74, 528 (1999).
12. Y. H. Wu, M. L. Wu, Y. S. Lin and J. R. Wu, IEEE Electron Device Lett. 30, 72 (2009).
13. D. N. Kouvatsos, V. L. Sougleridis, and A. G. Nassiopoulou, Appl. Phys. Lett., 82, 397
(2003).
14. T. C. Chang, P. T. Liu, S. T. Yan, and S. M. Sze, Electrochem. Solid-State Lett. 8, G71
(2005).
15. M. Perego, G. Scarel, and M. Fanciulli, Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 162115 (2007).
16. B. Govoreanu, P. Blomme, M. Rosmeulen, J. Van Houdt, and K. D. Meyer, IEEE Electron
Device Lett. 24, 99 (2003).
NSC 97-2221-E-007-133 成果報告12
(a)
(b)
Fig. 1. Schematic representation of the
Ge-based memory structure (not to
scale).
Fig. 2. Cross-sectional high resolution
TEM images for the Ge-based memory
with (a) 60 and (b) 90 min FGAs
focusing on the interface between the
Ge layer and the tunnel dielectric.
NSC 97-2221-E-007-133 成果報告14
Fig. 5. Depth profile measured by
TOF-SIMS for the devices with
different FGA times.
Fig. 6. Leakage current characteristic
for the Al-gated Ge MOS capacitor
with 3.46 nm SiO2, the inset shows the
corresponding tbd distribution. In the
time-dependent dielectric breakdown
test, each device is stressed at a field
strength of 12.85 MV/cm until the
device is broken.
Fig. 7. Data endurance performance for
the Ge-based memory with 60 min
FGA and the Si control device.
2008 SSDM 會議心得 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-007-133
計畫名稱 矽晶圓上具鍺通道之奈米晶體記憶體: 元件結構與製程技術之開發
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
巫勇賢 國立清華大學工程與系統科學系助理教授
會議時間地點
2008/09/24~2008/09/26
日本筑波市國際會議中心
會議名稱 International Conference on Solid State Devices and Materials
發表論文題目 Electrical Characteristics of Ge p-MOSFETs Formed on SiSubstrate with Thermal SiON as Gate Dielectric
一、參加會議經過:
2008 國際固態元件與材料會(Solid State Devices and Materials, SSDM)於
9/24-9/26 在日本茨城縣筑波市的國際會議中心舉辦。自 1969 年首度舉辦此會議以
來，SSDM 提供了電子元件與材料方面研究人員一個非常廣泛且專業的技術交流
平台。今年適逢 SSDM 四十週年，大會特別以新穎系統整合之元件與材料創新
(Device and Material Innovation for Novel System Integration)為主題，收錄了包含
Advanced Gate Stack/Si Processing Science 、 Characterization and Materials
Engineering for Interconnect Integration、CMOS Devices/Device Physics、Advanced
Memory Technology、Advanced Circuits and Systems、Photonic Devices and
Device Physics、Advanced Material Synthesis and Crystal Growth Technology…等 13
個領域(9 core areas and 4 strategic areas)，共 589 篇報告(62 invited paper, 339 oral
papers, 161 poster papers and 27 late news papers)。筆者發表之口頭報告是安排在
9/25 日下午之 Advanced Material Synthesis and Crystal Growth Technology Session。
由於 40 週年是個格外具有意義的紀念，大會主席東京大學的 Shibata 教授特別引
用孔子的名言:『四十而不惑』來期勉 SSDM 能承先啟後，繼往開來，持續在電子
元件與材料的領域中扮演重要的角色。此次大會除了回顧了過去幾屆 SSDM 之傑
出論文獎並貼心地將過去 40 年所有的 SSDM 論文燒錄在一片 DVD 光碟中，深具
收藏價值。此次會議所接受的論文主要來自日本，其次則是台灣、韓國、新加坡
及其他國家，而與會的人員估計超過 1000 人。
大會於 9/24 早上 10:00 開幕致詞後即展開 SSDM Award 頒發，今年的 SSDM
Award 是將獎項頒給 Furukawa 與 Ishiwara 兩位 Tokyo Institute of Technology 教授
表彰其在離子佈植靶材之研究與貢獻。頒獎儀式後，大會安排了産業技術綜合研
究所(AIST)的 Hirose 博士及 Purdue 大學的 Lundstrom 教授發表了兩場 plenary
talk，前者回顧了 CMOS 製程技術的發展以及目前應力層/高介電材質/金屬閘極技
術之挑戰，最後並揭示了未來電子元件發展的契機。至於後者則以基本的物理與
2008 SSDM 會議心得 3
PMOSFET 並展現其優異之電性表現。連續四場的報告後，筆者稍作休息隨即參
加 poster 論文的簡短報告，此簡短報告是讓每位 poster 論文的作者上台做 2 分鐘
的摘要報告(無提問時間)，主要目的是讓參與者可以在短時間內先對每篇論文有些
概念，需要詳細的討論則可以在下午 13:00~14:45 的 poster session 與各篇作者直接
討論。筆者參加的是 Advanced Gate Stack/Si Processing Science 的簡短報告，共有
19 篇論文以高介電材質為主題發表其成果。
9/25 日下午筆者主要參加欲發表演說的 Advanced Material Synthesis and
Crystal Growth Technology session，首篇由東京理工學院的報告是探討鍺在施加伸
張應力(tensile strain)時會從間接能隙轉變成直接能隙之條件，此項成果引起多位學
者討論，不過其結果是純粹從模擬出發，缺乏實際實驗數據佐證，較缺乏說服力。
至於筆者的報告則是提出在矽晶基板上製作高性能鍺電晶體的製程方式，不同於
文獻上製作鍺電晶體的方式，筆者提出以 SiON 作為閘極介電層並顯示出極佳的
載子遷移率、電流驅動力與極低之介面漏電流。此結果引起日本與美國學者的興
趣，其問題主要在於如何確認矽晶基板上鍺膜的品質及缺陷密度，由於先前已經
在文獻上討論此問題，因此兩位學者均能得到滿意的回答。本 session 大約於下午
18:50 結束，會場外已準備好豐盛的點心讓與會者充飢以保持體力參加 19:00 開始
的 rump session。此次 rump session 分兩個場地分別討論功率半導體技術未來的發
展以及奈米元件材料的創新。筆者參加的是後者這項討論會，會中有多位研究人
員展示新型元件與材料，筆者最感興趣的是以固態電解質為基礎之原子開關
(atomic switch)，利用電壓控制兩條導線中之電解質是否會導通，原理類似目前很
熱門的 Resistive-RAM(RRAM)，由於其結構簡單又可以進行三維結構之整合，被
視為未來記憶體之候選結構之ㄧ。
9/26 日是會議的最後一天，筆者於早上 9:00 參加了 Advanced Memory
Technology session，此部分主要是探討電荷陷阱記憶體(charge trapping memory)的
發展，前三篇報告均為韓國光州理工學院同ㄧ研究團隊所提出。此研究團隊除了
探討改善以 LaAlO 作為電荷陷阱層的製程外，亦討論如何以 F 原子摻雜與高壓氧
氣(10 atm)減少 Al2O3 控制氧化層之 oxygen vacancy，其結果顯示經過其中一種製
程處理之元件擁有更好的 retention 與 endurance 表現。由於回程班機時間是下午
18:40 之故，筆者於下午 14:35 分即驅車由筑波市前往成田國際機場(Narita Airport)
搭機返台，結束短暫而充實的 SSDM 會議行程。
二、與會心得:
SSDM 是亞洲地區所舉辦的重要國際電子元件與材料會議，與會人士逐年攀
升，其重要性可見ㄧ斑。參加此會議不僅可以與相同研究背景齊聚ㄧ堂並充分交
換研究心得，更可獲得固態元件與材料方面最新的研究成果，有助於幫助筆者規
劃未來的研究方。由於此行收穫豐碩，因此建議此領域之研究人員與研究生能踴
躍參加明年於日本仙台所舉辦的 2009 SSDM。
三、發表論文內容:
