 - 1 - 
考量電子漂移和障礙物限制之電流導向線路佈線設計 
Electromigration-Aware Obstacle-Avoiding Current-Driven Wire Planning 
for Analog Circuits 
計畫編號： NSC-98-2221-E-262 -015 
中文摘要 
本計劃定義一個障礙物限制下類比電路電流佈線新問題，並提出ㄧ新方法最小化電流
佈線總面積。最佳化目標是最小化類比電路電流佈線總面積。本計劃所提方法針對電路中
電流源和電流端點數值配給連線足夠連線寬度，以避免電路電子漂移現象，改善電路使用
年限。此外本計劃所提線性規劃模型預先給予模組足夠空間，改善連線間互相干擾問題。
所提方法能預先估計電流源到電流源各端點的連線長度，再用線性規劃選擇面積最小佈線
結果。對於不具障礙物限制的電路，本研究所提方法可最佳化連線總面積。對於障礙物限
制之電路，本計劃所提方法可最小化連線總面積，並且可改善連線間互相干擾的問題。實
驗結果顯示：計劃所提之線性規劃演算法可改善傳統方法達 13.24%連線總面積。  
英文摘要 
In this paper, we propose an integer linear programming (ILP for short) based 
algorithm to solve the electromigration aware wire planning which supports the sufficient 
wire width for each wire according the current values of all sources and targets in analog 
circuit. The objective is to minimize the total wiring area in the presence of obstacles. First, 
we perform the reservation space technique for all obstacles to void the interference 
between the wires and obstacles. Second, we calculate the wire lengths of all source-target 
pairs with consideration the obstacles. Third, the topology which contains the sufficient 
widths for all wires is determined by the proposed ILP formulations. Finally, the wire 
planning results are obtained by transforming each wire of the topology into the horizontal 
and vertical segments. For the problem of wire planning without obstacles, a legal current 
assignment will be obtained with minimal wiring area. Experimental results show that the 
ILP-based approach is significantly improved 13.24% of wiring area on average as 
compared to the results of the greedy method.  
    Index Terms–Design Automation, Analog circuit, Integer linear programming, 
Wire planning, Obstacle. 
    本計劃提出一個線性規劃為基礎之類比電路電流佈線演算法，最小化電流佈線總面
積。在類比電路設計自動化之電流佈線階段最小化類比電路之電流佈線總面積。改進過去
類比電路電流佈線需要手動調整之缺點，及未考慮障礙物限制，該演算法除能處理有障礙
物限制電流佈線外，還能達成改善模組連線與其他連線間互相干擾問題。該演算法具有極
高實用價值，相關結果發表於 IEEE 等級國際會議論文，計一篇國際會議論文：IEEE ISIC 
2009(EI)國際會議一篇；另有一篇論文被全國計算機會議(NCS 2009)接受。另整理更詳細資
料投稿於 IET device, circuits and systems 國際期刊。茲因精簡報告須 10 頁內，故僅列其中
IEEE ISIC 2009 論文，如後所附。 
 - 3 - 
2
3
1s
6t
5t
3s
4t
2s
7t
7
1
4
2 ( 5)+(-7)
( 8)+
( 4)+
( 2)+(-3)
( 9)−
4
2
1s
6t
5t
3s
4t
2s
7t
7
1
5
3
( 5)+(-7)
( 8)+
( 4)+ (-9)
( 2)+(-3)
Obstacle-Avoiding Electromigration Aware  
Wire Planning for Analog Circuits 
 
 
 
 
Abstract—In this paper, we propose an integer linear 
programming (ILP for short) based algorithm to solve the 
electromigration aware wire planning which supports the 
sufficient wire width for each wire according the current 
values of all sources and targets in analog circuit. The 
objective is to minimize the total wiring area in the presence 
of obstacles. First, we perform the reservation space 
technique for all obstacles to void the interference between 
the wires and obstacles. Second, we calculate the wire 
lengths of all source-target pairs with consideration the 
obstacles. Third, the topology which contains the sufficient 
widths for all wires is determined by the proposed ILP 
formulations. Finally, the wire planning results are obtained 
by transforming each wire of the topology into the 
horizontal and vertical segments. For the problem of wire 
planning without obstacles, a legal current assignment will 
be obtained with minimal wiring area. Experimental results 
show that the ILP-based approach is significantly improved 
13.24% of wiring area on average as compared to the 
results of the greedy method.  
I. INTRODUCTION 
The System-on-chip (SOC) trend, which integrates 
the analog IC, digital IC and the other RF chip into a 
single chip, is getting more and more popular. Black 
proposed two failed models, which are utilizing the 
aluminum metallization, to describe the electro- 
migration of the silicon devices [1]. Analog IC must 
consider the current volumes, such as the maximum, 
minimum and so on, to support the sufficient wire width 
to avoid the electron-migration and enlarge the lifetime 
of the semiconductors [2].  
To automatically finish the layout for analog IC is a 
very interesting field and draws more and more attention. 
Lienig et al proposed a new approach, which effectively 
determines all wires width in the given terminals [3]. 
Furthermore, their approach is verified by using a real 
world analog design. Adler et al. presented a single layer 
router, which satisfies the current constraints and the 
maximum current density for all interconnect [4].  
Adler et al. proposed a new greedy-based approach, 
which determines the wire width for a multi-terminal net 
with consideration of the obstacles, to solve the 
current-driven routing problem [5]. With consideration 
of the obstacles, their approach can find the proper 
routing path according to the wire width and the 
available routing space between the adjacent obstacles. 
Lienig et al. provided two approaches to handle the 
analog multiple terminals net while satisfying the 
Kirchoff’s current law [6]. Besides, they discussed the 
concept of the over-sizing for the arbitrary polygon. 
Lienig et al. proposed an analog router, which handle 
non-rectangular obstacles with the non-Manhattan-based 
routing, for the current-driven routing [7]. All of them 
can not obtain the optimal current-driven routing tree.  
The contributions of the paper are as follows. First, 
we formulate the problem of obstacle-avoiding wire 
planning to minimize the total wiring area. Second, the 
optimal current-driven wire planning with obstacles is 
efficiently obtained by solving the ILP formulations. 
Third, the wire widths of all edges of the current-driven 
wire planning are automatically determined according 
the current density. Furthermore, to avoid the 
interference between the wires and obstacles, the space 
reservation is utilized to reserve the space for obstacles. 
The rest of the paper is as follows. Section II 
describes the motivation, and the problem formulations. 
The Section III discusses the algorithm to minimize the 
wiring area. The experimental results and conclusions 
are attached in Sections IV and V, respectively. 
 
 
 
  
  
   (a) wiring area = 144                (b) wiring area = 142 
Figure 1.  Wiring area without obstacles.  
II.  PRELIMINARY 
In the section, we discuss the motivation, including 
three viewpoints and the corresponding examples, and 
the problem definition.  
A. Motivation  
First, the example of wire planning without obstacles 
is shown in Figure 1. We motivate the subject of 
minimization of the wiring area of the current-driven 
wire planning with some examples illustrating 
importance of the problems to which our proposed ILP 
formulations are applicable. According to the definition 
of the current density in [3-8], we determine the 
minimum wire width by the maximum and the root mean 
  Hsin-Hsiung Huang 
Dept. of Electronic Engineering 
Lunghwa Univ. of Science and Technology, 
Taoyun, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
pp002@mail.lhu.edu.tw 
Cheng-Chiang Lin  
Dept. of Information and Computer Engineering 
Chung Yuan Christian University, 
Chung-Li, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
matrix_lin2002@yahoo.com 
His-An Chien 
Dept. of Computer Science 
National Tsing Hua University, 
Hsin-Chu, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
hsianchien@gmail.com
Tsai-Ming Hsieh  
Dept. of Information and Computer Engineering 
Chung Yuan Christian University, 
Chung-Li, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
hsieh@cycu.edu.tw
 - 5 - 
III. OUR ILP-BASED ALGORITHM 
In the section, we provide the current-driven wire 
planning approach which each step is listed as follows,  
A. Perform Reservation Space for Each Obstacle 
To avoid the interference between the obstacles and 
wires, we expand the original obstacle with a user-defined 
reservation space. If only the channel insertion is utilized 
to expand the obstacles, the interference still occurs. 
Hence, in this step, the ring space inserted around the 
original obstacle is used to avoid the interference, see 
Figure 3. The minimal length to avoid the interference 
between the obstacles and wires is defined as dU . The 
user-defined distance, dU , is depend on the factors such as 
the circuit performance and technique parameter. Actually, 
the value is formulated in (4) and the dU is set to be 5 um. 
It means that the larger value, dU , results in the longer 
additional wirelengh. 
B. Calculate the Wire Length for Source-Target pairs  
Second, we calculate the feasible wire length for all 
source-target pairs with consideration of the obstacles. 
The corresponding wire length constraints are integrated 
into the ILP formations. To speedup the runtime of 
calculating the wire length, the push_line algorithm is 
used to calculate the wire length and determine the 
routing paths. The heuristic approach first constructs the 
minimal routing paths for each source-target pair and 
then removes the invalid segment to the boundary of the 
obstacles. Therefore, the wire length of each 
source-target pair is integrated into the ILP formulations.  
C. Determine the Topology by ILP Formulations 
Third, the ILP formulations are utilized to determine 
the connections between the sources and targets with the 
minimization of total wiring area. For the n sources and 
m targets, there are many possible combinations to meet 
the Kirchhoff’s current law. In the paper, the RMS 
current values for all source-target pairs are involved into 
the ILP formulations which are described as follows, 
   Minimize A                        (5) 
Subject to      
,
( , ) ( , ),
{1,2,..., }, {1, 2,..., }
i j
A c i j d i j
i n j m
α= × ×
∈ ∈
∑
         (6) 
1
( , )  
m
i
j
c i j O
=
=∑                     (7) 
1
( , )  
n
j
i
c i j I
=
=∑                     (8) 
1 1
           
m n
j i
j i
I O
= =
=∑ ∑                (9) 
where ( , )d i j denote the obstacle-avoiding wire length 
which is calculated by the formula (1). iO and jI are the 
total RMS current values for each source is and target jt . 
Formula (5) lists the objective to minimize the total 
wiring area of the wire planning. Formula (6) shows the 
total wiring area, i.e. the product of each current value 
between the routing path and the corresponding 
Manhattan distance underα =1. Formula (7) illustrates 
the total RMS current value, which accumulates the 
RMS current values from source is to all the targets.  
Formula (8) lists the total RMS current value, which 
accumulates the RMS current values form all sources to 
the target jt . Formula (9) is the constraints to meet the 
Kirchhoff’s current law.    
D. Transform the M-architecture Results 
Furthermore, we transform all edges of the spanning 
wire planning into M-architecture paths with the 
corresponding wire widths according to the results in 
sub-section C. After explaining each step, we illustrate 
the method by using an example. 
E. An Example  
In the following, we apply an example in Figure 1(b) 
to explain the meanings of our ILP formulas. Let ( , )c i j  
and ( , )d i j be the current value and distance. We have 
A (1,1) (1,1) (1, 2) (1,2) ... (3, 4) (3, 4)c d c d c d= × + × + + ×  
by (6). In (7), we take source 1s as an example and 
have 1 (1,1) (1,2) ... (1,4)O c c c= + + + . In (8), we take the 
total current values of target 1t as an example and 
have 1 (1,1) (2,1) (3,1)I c c c= + + . In formula (9), the sum 
of currents flowing away from the all sources is equal to 
the sum of currents flowing into towards to the all 
targets , we have 1 2 3 1 2 3 4O O O I I I I+ + = + + + . Finally, 
we get the optimal solution A=142. 
 
 
Figure 5.   Wire planning of circuit r6. 
 - 7 - 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
  □ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                                         
日期：99 年 7 月 7 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：考量電子漂移和障礙物限制之電流導向線路佈線設計 
計畫主持人： 黃信雄  助理教授     
計畫編號：  NSC-98-2221-E-262 -015   學門領域：微電子工程 
技術/創作名稱 考量電子漂移和障礙物限制之電流導向線路佈線設計 
發明人/創作人 黃信雄 助理教授 
技術說明 
中文： 
    本計劃發展一個電流佈線演算法，在類比電路設計自動化階段，使用線
性規劃為基礎之方法達成類比電路電流佈線，最小化面積。該演算法除能處
理有障礙物限制電流佈線外，還能改善模組連線與其他連線間互相干擾問
題。預先給所有模組一個使用者給定空白空間，再估計所有電流源到各電流
端點之避障礙物的合法連線長度，然後將資訊整合到線性規劃模型，最小化
類比電路之電流佈線總面積。總之，本計畫所發展類比電路自動化電流佈線
演算法可適用於超大型積體類比電路佈線之應用。 
 
英文： 
 In this project, we presented one wire planning approach for analog circuits. The 
objective is to minimize total wire area while satisfying the constraints of 
electromigration, obstacles and interference between interconnections.  For all 
modules, the space reservation method is used to reserve the user-defined free 
space around obstacles. A length estimator is used to estimate the length of all 
feasible routing paths from sources to targets. These routing information are 
integrated into the provided approach to minimize the wiring area with obstacles. 
Summary, the proposed algorithm deals with the problem of wiring planning with 
interference and obstacles for analog circuits.    
可利用之產業及 
可開發之產品 
 
類比實體設計自動化(Analog Physical Design Automation)、超大型基體電
路設計演算法(VLSI Algorithm)。 
技術特點 
   本計劃提出類比電路設計自動化之電流佈線器，除考量電子漂移現象和
障礙物限制外，並能改善連線間干擾的問題，最小化電流佈線總面積。本計
畫預先一使用者給定空白空間給所有模組，再估計所有電流源到各電流端點
之避障礙物的合法連線長度，然後將資訊整合到線性規劃模型，最小化類比
電路之電流佈線總面積。本計劃所提類比電路電流佈線演算法，能達到改善
晶片穩定性，延長晶片使用年限，故適用於超大型積體電路的類比電路之電
流佈線設計。 
推廣及運用的價值 
隨製程技術進入到奈米時代，晶片使用年限長短將嚴重影響到晶片因的穩定
度；此外為加速晶片上市時間，SOC 大量使用預先設計模組 IP 加速晶片完
成設計時間，因此類比電路電流佈線器需要能處理障礙物。因而本計劃提出
一個類比電路設計自動化之電流佈線器，除考量電子漂移現象和障礙物限制
並能改善連線間相互干擾的問題，最小化電流佈線總面積。 
 
 
 
出席國際會議 
IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Circuits  
(ISIC 2009) 
報告 
 
 
Dec 14-17, 2009 
Singapore 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
龍華科技大學電子工程學系 
黃  信  雄 
2009/12/22 
14日大會開始，共14 Special Sessions、 16 Regular Oral Sessions、 2 
Poster Sessions 和2個keynotes。大會所接受的論文都在三天內完成報
告，進行報告論文有海報張貼論文(poster paper)和口頭報告論文
(lecture paper)。 
    本次參與的國際會議是 IEEE舉辦 ISIC 2009，有 2場專業演講和
１場 tutorial，分別描述如下： 
Plenary lecture 1: Analog and RF Circuits in Nanometer CMOS 
主講者：Dr. Bram Nauta,Department of Electrical Engineering,  
The University of Twente, The Netherlands 
 
 
Plenary Lecture 2: More than Moore - the Challenges of 3 Dimensional 
IC Integration 
主講者：Frank P. Averdung, Chief Executive Officer, SUSS MicroTec 
AG 
 
 
Tutorial1: IC Design of Power Management Circuits 
主講者：Dr. Wing-Hung Ki, The Electronic and Computer Engineering 
Department, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
China 
 
這2場專業演講和1場tutorial分別由三位資深的speaker 就專業題
目進行演說。第一場專業演講由The University of Twente 的Professor 
Bram Nauta題目是: “Plenary lecture 1: Analog and RF Circuits in 
Nanometer CMOS ”。第二場專業演講由SUSS MicroTec AG 的Dr. 
和類比電路電流佈線自動化的研究，我希望朝有關 Low Power, wire 
planning for analog circuits 問題等方面進行研究，能與 Circuits and 
Systems for Simulation and Modeling 和 Optimization (ILP to minimize 
the wiring area for analog circuit) 的研究結合，做更進一步的研究。 
    此次會議，攜回大會 CD-ROM 及其 Proceedings，是今後研究的
重要參考資料。  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
1 論文發表於 IEEE ISIC (EI)。 
2 論文發表於國計算機會議(NCS2009)。 
3 投稿於 IET Circuits, Devices and Systems(SCI/EI) 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
1. 研究成果代表意義: 針對類比電路之電流佈線問題進行設計自動化，提升人工手動修
改電路的速度。 
2. 研究成果代表價值: 對類比電路之電流佈線問題進行設計自動化。對有矩形障礙物限
制，以啟發式方法估計避開障礙物的連線；使用空間預留方法給予模組足夠空間，改善連
線間互相干擾的問題。除能避免電子漂移現象，提昇晶片使用年限外，也能在障礙物限制
下，改善連線間相互干擾的問題。本研究內容依原計畫時程實現演算法，深具業界應用以
及學術價值。 
3. 研究成果為：論文一篇發表於 IEEE 國際會議 ISIC 2009，另一篇發表於全國計算機會
議 NCS2009；另外整理資料投稿於 IET Device, Circuits and Systems (SCI/EI)國際期
刊，結果詳見參考文獻。 
4. 研究成果進ㄧ步發展可能性：該計劃提供學術期刊未來研究方向為：近一步探討更一
般化的問題，目前研究大部分能處理總電流源輸出總電流等於總汲取電流之電路，但實際
電路應用上為總電流源輸出大於總汲取電流，本計劃所提方法可進ㄧ步探討更ㄧ般化問
題。目前電路均為整數電流數值，未來將可擴展方法以支援非整數電流數值之電路。 
