 中文摘要 
本子計畫為期三年，計畫之目的為開發福祉車輛「乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅」目的在幫助
行動不便者更容易上下車輛，解決「用車行動」的困擾。經過三年之研發，已成功開發出
「轎車式電動福祉椅」及「休旅車式電動福祉椅」。本子計畫第一年之工作項目為轎車式
電動福祉椅之設計及初型製作，第二、三年之工作項目為休旅車式電動福祉椅之設計及初
型製作。此電動輔助座椅能於行動不便人士上下車輛時藉著機構的運動移出車外，待使用
者坐定位後依反向順序移入車內。如此可同時解決照顧者與被照顧者的困擾，不但減輕照
顧者的負擔，且可避免因抱持入出車之動作所引起之傷害。轎車式福祉椅及休旅車式福祉
椅之研發分成座椅運動機構設計、座椅設計、馬達傳動設計及微電腦電控設計等四部分。
初型經過測試及功能驗證，證實該電動輔助座椅能平順的移出及移入車內，幫助銀髮族及
不良於行人士更容易上下車輛。本子計畫之研發成果已申請二項發明專利及一項新型專利。 
 
關鍵詞：福祉車輛，照顧輔具 
 
Abstract 
 
The objective of this sub-projective is to develop the electric assistive seat of the geront-vehicle. 
Two types of the assistive seat are designed, the “sedan electric assistive seat” and the “van 
electric assistive seat”. The function of the seat would be to solve the problem of getting in and 
out of a motor vehicle. The seat would allow a person to sit on it and assist the user in getting in 
and out of the vehicle. This would eradicate the likelihood of injury. The development of the 
electric assistive seat can be divided into four subdivisions: 1. The design of the seat movement 
mechanism. 2. The seat design. 3. The motor drive design. 4. The microprocessor-based control 
system design. For the design and analysis of the seat movement mechanism and the seat, the 
software SolidWorks was used. The actuator forces of the electric assistive seat are provided by 
the permanent magnetic motors with reduction speed gear trains. The control system is based on 
the 8051 microprocessor. All the relevant circuits were implemented including the drive, control 
and interface circuits. The prototypes of the two electric assistive seats of the geront-vehicle have 
been built. The test results of the electric assistive seats are also illustrated in the article. The 
designs of the electric assistive seats have been applied two innovation patents and one new type 
patent in Taiwan, R. O. C.  
 
Keywords: geront-car, take care assistive device 
 
一、簡介 
因著國民生活水準的提高及國內健保制度的實行，台灣民眾的平均壽命較以往高出許
多，按照世界衛生組織( world health organization, WHO )的定義，台灣已是高齡化社會的國
家[1,2]。根據內政部 93 年的統計，國內 65 歲以上老年人口與身心障礙人士總數佔台灣總
人口數的十分之一強[2]；前者為退休的銀髮族，後者為社會上的弱勢族群，對於這二個族
群的照顧與扶持值得政府與民間投入更多的心力[3-5]，以應付未來廣大的需求，提高全民
   
實作照片 
 
二) 休旅車式電動福祉椅 (
 
 
 
 
 
設計圖 
 
三、 成果統計 
人才培育：參與計畫學生數：博士生 ____________ 人 
                          碩士生 ______________ 人 
                          大學生 _______4________ 人 
 
論文發表：國外期刊：________________篇 
          國內期刊：________________篇 
          國外會議：_______2________篇 
          國內會議：_______3________篇 
 
專利：國外獲得：________________件（國別） 
      國外申請中：______________件（國別） 
      國內獲得：______1_______件（國別） 
      國內申請中：_____2________件（國別） 
 
軟體：____________ 
 
計畫中是否有廠商參與：_________否________  
參與廠商的主要工作為： 
 
其他具體成果：（請敘述） 
 
Conference papers: 
1. 王得安、嚴明仁，『福祉車輛「轎車乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅」之研發』，B6-004，中國
機械工程學會第二十三屆全國學術研討會，95 年 11 月 24、25 日，台南縣永康市
(NSC-94-2745-E- 252-006-URD) 
2. D. A. Wang, 2007, “The Cabin Design of the Geront-Vehicle with Steer-by-Wire System,” 
ICGTSM 2007 International Conference on Gerontic Technology and Service 
Management, 26-27th March 2007, pp. 145-151, Nantou, Taiwan. (NSC-95-2745-E-252 
-006-URD) 
3. D. A. Wang, Y. C. Lin, Y. P. Chang, T. U. Wang, 2008, “System Development of the Electric 
Assistive Seat for the Vehicle,” ICGTSM 2008 International Conference on Gerontic 
Technology and Service Management, 20-21st May 2008, pp. 117-124, Nantou, Taiwan. 
(NSC-96-2745-E-252-006-URD) 
4. D. A. Wang, D. S. Huang, Y. C. Lin,  C. L. Chen, Y. P. Chang, 2008, “The Cabin Design of the 
Geront-Vehicle with the Movable Steering Wheel System,” The 13th National Conference 
on Vehicle Engineering, Oct. 31, Ming Chi University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, 
R.O.C. (NSC-96-2745 -E-252-006-URD) 
5. D. A. Wang, M. Z. Yan, Y. C. Lin, M. S. Chiang, Y. Y. Hsieh, 2008, “Prototype Design of the 
Electric Assistive Seat with Security Operation Mode,” CSME 25th National Conference on 
Mechanical Engineering, 21-22nd November, Da-Yeh University, Changhua, Taiwan. 
(NSC-96-2745 -E-252 -006-URD) 
祉車輛產品一直被認為是奢侈品，一般民眾的接受度不高，廠商因著投資報酬率的問題，
也沒有積極投入，而採觀望的態度。但希望因本計畫的執行，藉著國家投入研究經費，能
以所得的成果為基礎，近一步與企業界合作，以產學合作的方式應用本計畫累積的技術，
將轎車前乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅及休旅車式殘障輔助電動座椅量產商品化。這樣國內民
眾將可以以較低廉的價格享受福祉車輛帶來的好處，提升銀髮族與不良於行人士生活上的
便利。 
 
 
 
 
中國機械工程學會第二十三屆全國學術研討會論文集                         崑山科技大學  台南、永康 
中華民國九十五年十一月二十四日、二十五日                                     論文編號：B6-004 
福祉車輛「轎車乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅」之研發 
王得安
1
、嚴明仁
2
 
1
南開技術學院機械工程學系助理教授  
2
南開技術學院電子工程學系講師  
國科會計畫編號：NSC-94-2745-E-252-006-URD  
  
 
摘要 
本文探討福祉車輛「轎車前乘客座殘障輔助電動
座椅」原型設計及製作，目的在幫助行動不便者更容
易上下車輛，解決「用車行動」上的困擾。此輔助電
動座椅能於行動不便人士上下車輛時藉著機構的運
動移出至車門外緣，待使用者坐定位後依反向順序移
入車內。如此可同時解決照顧者與被照顧者的困擾，
不但減輕照顧者的負擔，且可避免因抱持入出車之動
作所引起的傷害。本轎車前乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅
的研發分成座椅運動機構設計、座椅設計、馬達傳動
設計及微電腦控制系統設計等四個部分。座椅運動機
構及座椅本身以SolidWorks軟體進行電腦輔助設計
及分析；動力源採用汽車電動座椅馬達搭配減速機
構；而微電腦控制系統以8051微電腦為基礎，進行相
關的驅動電路、控制電路及介面週邊電路研製。目前
已完成原型機（prototype）之設計及製作。本文亦列
出轎車前乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅原型機之測試結
果。 
  
關鍵字：福祉車輛，照顧輔具 
  
1. 前言  
因著國民生活水準的提高及國內健保制度的實
行，台灣民眾的平均壽命較以往高出許多，按照世界
衛生組織( world health organization, WHO )的定義，
台灣已是高齡化社會的國家[1,2]。根據內政部93年的
統計，國內65歲以上老年人口與身心障礙人士總數佔
台灣總人口數的十分之一強[2]；前者為退休的銀髮
族，後者為社會上的弱勢族群，對於這二個族群的照
顧與扶持值得政府與民間投入更多的心力[3-5]，以應
付未來廣大的需求，提高全民的生活品質。 
對於身心障礙人士與高齡長者，首先面臨的就是
行動不便的問題[4,5]。為了對銀髮族及行動不便人士
提供日常生活更多的照顧服務，本研究主要目的為研
發福祉車輛「轎車乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅」[3-10]。
雖然歐美及日本已有此類產品問世，但國內卻少有廠
商投入開發，且國外產品多是針對大型車種設計，不
易安裝於國內為數眾多的中小型房車之內。為了服務
台灣民眾廣大的需求，本研究目前已針對中小型房車
開發一能自動移出至車門外緣及移入車內的轎車前
乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅之原型機，讓一些肢障人士
或不良於行的長者上下車輛時更輕鬆，解決「用車行
動」時的困擾。此種輔具能減輕照顧者的負擔，避免
因抱持肢障人士或不良於行長者入出車之動作所引
起的傷害。本轎車乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅由(一)座
椅運動機構、(二)座椅本體、(三)馬達傳動系統及(四)
微電腦控制系統等四部分組成[11-15]。目前原型機已
設計製作完畢，且進行相關之測試，能平順的操作於
轎車右前乘客座。 
 
2. 系統架構 
本研究所發展之轎車前乘客座殘障輔助電動座
椅為一機電整合系統，由(一)座椅運動機構，(二)
座椅，(三)馬達傳動系統，及(四)微電腦控制系統等
四部分所組成，系統架構如圖一。由於各廠牌汽車各
種款式及不同年份之轎車其右前乘客座空間大小及
座椅固定孔位多所不同，在座椅運動機構、座椅及馬
達傳動系統的設計上就需要針對不同車型進行個別
化設計；而微電腦控制部分之硬體架構原則上不依車
型有所變動，僅在程式撰寫上配合不同的機構運動。 
 
3. 轎車右前乘客座空間狀況評估 
轎車右前乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅發展前須先
對車內空間做詳細調查，以免系統發展完成後發生無
法安裝或運轉干涉問題。若以市場銷售潛力為前提發
展轎車右前乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅，則需參考各型
車輛市場佔有率及車輛擁有者購買能力指標，針對幾
款有潛力的轎車款式開發乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅。 
為方便起見，本研究以南開技術學院機械系車輛
組的實習用車－Toyota Premio 2.0車型為開發平台，
系統設計乃參考此型車輛之內部空間大小及內部空
間幾何尺寸。圖二是將該車右前乘客座座椅移除後車
內空間照片。由照片中可看見車內底板有隆起之鈑
金，目的一是為了強化車身結構，二是當成座椅固定
處，提供座椅支撐固緊之孔位。一般車廠為了鞏固本
身售後服務的利益，各車廠每款車型的車底板幾何形
狀皆不同，茲以建立想要進入此車款座椅開發的門
檻，逼退外面副廠切入市場競爭的企圖心，使得所有
維修利益全由車廠及其衛星工廠瓜分。但這也造成了
福祉車輛發展最大的障礙，也就是說在不破壞車內底
板鈑金的前提下，設計者需要針對各種不同的車型發
展不同的座椅運動機構、座椅及馬達傳動系統。在投
中國機械工程學會第二十三屆全國學術研討會論文集                         崑山科技大學  台南、永康 
中華民國九十五年十一月二十四日、二十五日                                     論文編號：B6-004 
6. 原型機介紹  
圖八為原型機未安裝於車上之照片；圖九為原型
機安裝於轎車右前乘客座照片。經測試原型機可平順
移動旋轉至車門外緣，幫助不良於行的長者及朋友能
更方便上下車，提高「用車行動」的方便性。 
 
7. 結論  
本研究已完成福祉車輛「轎車前乘客座殘障輔助
電動座椅」原型機之設計與製作，系統功能皆符合設
計之要求，能讓不良於行的長者及朋友更方便上下
車，提高用車行動的方便性。為了讓電動輔助座椅品
質具備可販售商品的水準，未來可以用產學合作模式
引進業界資源，修改原型設計，讓輔助電動座椅更加
精緻，發揮最大之照顧輔助功能。 
 
8. 誌謝  
感謝國家科學委員會對於本研究在經費上的協
助，使得本研究─「轎車前乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅」
之原型設計及製作能順利完成。  
 
9. 參考文獻  
 1. International Society for Gerontechnology, 
http://www.gerontechnology.info 
 2. 元 智 大 學 老 人 福 祉 科 技 研 究 中 心 ，
http://grc.mech.yzu.edu.tw 
 3. TOYOTA 福祉車，http://www.u-car.com.tw/ 
ucar-hot/hot-status-detail.asp?NewsID=1639 
 4. 2004 日 本 東 京 輔 具 展 內 容 ，
http://www.enable.com.tw/IncludeProg/board/discu
ss/message_list.asp?id=75&page=1 
 5. 國際福祉機械展及日本福利機構參訪心得報
告 ， http://www.elderly-welfare.org.tw/WOET99/ 
publication/number14 
 6. 豐田汽車，http://www.toyota.co.jp 
 7. 日產汽車，http://www.nissan.co.jp 
 8. 本田汽車，http://www.honda.co.jp 
 9. 三菱汽車，http://www.mitsubishicars.com 
 10. 馬自達汽車，http://www.mazda.co.jp 
 11. 顏鴻森，機構學，東華書局，台北、台灣，
2002 
 12. 馮丁樹，機動學，全華圖書，台北、台灣，
2004 
 13. 鄧明發，陳茂璋，微電腦專題製作應用電路，
知行文化，彰化、台灣，2001 
 14. 陳明熒，單晶片8051實作入門，文魁資訊，
台北、台灣，2002 
 15. 董勝源，單晶片MCS-51與C語言入門實習，
宏友圖書，台北、台灣，2003 
 
10. 圖表彙整  
 
 
圖一 轎車前乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅系統架構圖 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
圖二 Toyota Premio 2.0 右前乘客座底板空間 
 
中國機械工程學會第二十三屆全國學術研討會論文集                         崑山科技大學  台南、永康 
中華民國九十五年十一月二十四日、二十五日                                     論文編號：B6-004 
 
圖七 主程式流程圖 
 
 
 
圖八 轎車前乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅原型機照片 
 
 
(a)座椅位於位置原點 
 
 
(b)座椅順時針旋轉45度 
 
 
(c) 座椅順時針旋轉90度 
圖九 轎車前乘客座殘障輔助電動座椅原型機安裝於
車上照片 
 
表一 驅動器輸入/輸出真值表 
A B PWM OUT+---OUT- 
0 0 X 停止 
0 1 X 正轉 
1 0 X 逆轉 
 
The Cabin Design of the Geront-Vehicle with 
Steer-by-Wire System 
 
Der-An Wang 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
 Nankai Institute of Technology, Nantou, Taiwan 
dawang@nkc.edu.tw 
 
Abstract:  This article presents the innovation of the cabin design concept of the Geront-
Vehicle with the steer-by-wire system. When the vehicle is equipped with the steer-by-wire 
system, some mechanical elements and hydraulic component in the car could be removed. 
This means that some mechanical linkage parts in the cabin of the vehicle could be take away; 
moreover, the parts could have big design changes. Due to the progress of the steer-by-wire 
system, the storable steering wheel is available in the future. The novel garnered in steering 
wheel could be stored into the dash-board of the vehicle. Here some cabin design examples of 
the vehicle with the novel garnered in steering wheel is presented. The advantage of the 
design of the garnered in steering wheel is that the cabin of the vehicle will become roomier 
and could be used friendlier. The assistant equipment for the physically challenged people or 
the elders could not only be set on the passenger seat position but also be set on the driver seat 
position. The design change of the steering wheel due to the steer-by-wire technology could 
help the development of the Geront-Vehicle more flourishing. In order to get more 
identification with the Taiwan elders, the cabin design of the Geront-Vehicle presented in the 
article includes some characteristics of Orient culture. 
 
Key-Words:  cabin design, Geront-Vehicle, steer-by-wire 
 
1 Introduction 
Driving the vehicle is a popular action in the 
21st centuries. People drive the cars in their 
daily living to work, move, trip, etc. For elders 
the driving competence could be integral to an 
individual’s health, independence, and quality 
of life [1]. How to employ the advantages of 
technologies to assist older adults maintaining 
driving mobility are the important areas of 
researches. “Driving in old age” has become an 
issue of gerontechnology in the aging society 
[1]. 
Much research has been published concerning 
the technological advances in the vehicle design to 
assist the older drivers. Farber [2] investigated the 
potential of telematics applications for enhancing 
elders’ mobility. Charlton et al. [3] reviewed the 
literatures relating to the vehicle design and the 
safety of older road users. The review described the 
protection offered by recent technologies and 
features as well as future vehicle design 
recommendations. Warmink [4] discussed the 
vehicle adaptability design for the specific 
disabilities that sometimes occur among older 
drivers. However seldom research studies the cabin 
design of the vehicle for the older adults. 
Comfortably driving and ease of ingress and egress 
are emphasis when the elders and the physically 
challenged people drive the cars. Some motor 
companies have provided the assistant equipment to 
help the elders or the disabled getting in and out of 
the vehicle conveniently. In this article the cabin 
design of the Geront-Vehicle with the steer-by-wire 
system [5,6] is investigated. Due to the steer-by-
wire technology, a novel garnered in steering wheel 
concept is proposed. The steering wheel could be 
stored into the dash board of the vehicle because 
there is no mechanical linkage between the steering 
wheel and the electric assist actuator of the steering 
system. The driver space becomes roomier and more 
comfortable, and various interior styles could be 
applied. 
In this article the wonderful Geront-Vehicle 
idea is proposed. Several cabin styles are 
illustrated with the features of the wonderful 
Geront-Vehicle. The wonderful Geront-Vehicle 
could satisfy both the driving assistance and 
ease of getting in and out of the vehicle. The 
wonderful Geront-Vehicle, moreover, is a 
comfortable cabin for the elders and their 
families or friends to enjoy the beautiful time. 
The concept of steer-by-wire and the required 
technologies for developing the wonderful 
Geront-Vehicle are also illustrated. 
ICGTSM 2007 International Conference on Gerontic Technology and Service Management, 26-27th March 2007, Nantou, Taiwan. 
145
The sensors determine which way the wheel is 
turning and cause the actuators to provide 
additional force in that direction to aid the 
mechanical linkage. With this configuration 
energy is not wasted as with hydraulics. Energy 
is only used when the wheels are turned [9,10]. 
The mechanical linkage provides continued 
control, however frictional losses and time 
constraints still exist from the mechanical 
connection. 
The next step in steering system evolution – 
to completely do away with the steering column 
and shaft – represents a dramatic departure from 
traditional automotive design practice. The 
substitution of electronic systems in place of 
mechanical or hydraulic controls is known as 
“by-wire technology” [11]. This idea is not so 
new and it is coming from the airplane design 
concept. Removing the mechanical linkage 
between the steering wheel and the tires would 
simplify the design, increase efficiency, 
enhance performance, and improve overall 
safety. This completely electrical system is 
called “Steer-by-Wire”. Figure 3 shows the 
schematic diagram of the steer-by-wire system, 
where the mechanical linkage is replaced by the 
electronic control system and the cable. 
 
Figure 3. Steer-by-wire system with storable steering 
wheel 
 
But the advantage of steer-by-wire 
technology utilized in the Geront-Vehicle is not 
only in improving the operation performance 
but also in the design change of the steering 
wheel. The “whole steering wheel component” 
could be designed to be stored into the dash 
board of the vehicle completely since there is 
no mechanical linkage between the steering 
wheel and the electric assist actuator. The cabin 
space of the vehicle is squarer, and different 
cabin design styles could be applied. The cabin 
space could be utilized more easily and 
expansively due to the design change of the 
steering wheel. 
 
4 Cabin Design of the “Wonderful 
Geront-Vehicle” 
The cabin design concept of the Geront-Vehicle 
with the steer-by-wire technology and the 
stored in steering wheel is considered here. 
Different interior designs of the vehicle are 
demonstrated. However, it is difficult to claim 
what features the Geront-Vehicle should 
possess. Here the idea about the features that 
the Geront-Vehicle should have is given. As 
shown in Figure 4, the “Wonderful Geront-
Vehicle” presented in the article has the features 
of bliss, easy, smart and mobility independence. 
enjoy op
era
te
eq
uip
me
nt
provide
 
Figure 4. The features of the “Wonderful Geront-
Vehicle” 
 
The wonderful Geront-Vehicle should give 
people the feeling of bliss. Both the appearance 
and interior of the vehicle ought to exhale the 
tincture of bliss. When the elderly drive the car, 
they will feel very joyful and could enjoy the 
bliss with their families and friends. The 
wonderful Geront-Vehicle also gives the 
characteristics of easy driving and operating 
smartly. By the application of the advanced 
vehicle technologies, such as steer-by-wire, 
brake-by-wire, acceleration-by-wire, GPS, 
147
wonderful Geront-Vehicle presented here has 
the potential to assist the elders and disabilities 
with independent mobility. 
 
Figure 7. The electric auxiliary seat is set on the driver 
seat position 
 
4.2 Required Technologies 
Various cabin space applications have been 
exhibited above. In order to realize the cabin 
design concept of the wonderful Geront-Vehicle, 
several key technologies should be developed in 
the future. Figure 8 shows the relations between 
the wonderful Geront-Vehicle and the required 
technologies. The major items are listed in the 
following: 
 
Figure 8. Fishbone chart: the required technologies for 
the wonderful Geront-Vehicle 
 
4.2.1 The steer-by-wire technology 
The steer-by-wire system has been studied over 
one decade [11]. Much research studied this 
topic [5,6,9-12]. The steer-by-wire system 
includes a steering wheel control sub-system 
and a road wheel control sub-system. All the 
motor companies and research centers devote to 
develop the advanced vehicle technology, but 
the reliability concerns are still the critical 
issues before the steer-by-wire system could 
reach the consumers. The studies of the fault 
tolerance, the redundancy of the control system 
and the mechanical back up component will 
speed up the application of the technology 
quickly [12]. 
 
4.2.2 The “storable” steering wheel 
The storable steering wheel is a key point in the 
cabin design of the wonderful Geront-Vehicle. 
This means that the steering wheel could be 
stored into the dash board when the user 
requires the utilization of different cabin styles. 
However, the study about this kind of steering 
wheel is seldom. It is a mechatronics system 
and could be accomplished by some specialized 
mechanism and the associated electronic control 
system. When the steer-by-wire technology is 
well developed, the idea about the “storable” 
steering wheel would be adopted widely, or 
even the steering wheel could be tossed out in 
exchange for a revolutionary way of interacting 
with the automobile. 
 
4.2.3 The geront-driving posture module 
Because of the physical aging of the older 
adults, the driving postures of them may be 
different from the young people. The older 
adults require more technology assist. The 
“geront-driving posture module” claimed here 
is a control unit, which could memorize the 
position of the electric seat and the angle and 
position of the steering wheel which let the 
older adults feel comfortable to seat and drive. 
Figure 9 shows the schematic diagram of the 
adjustment of the storable steering wheel and 
the electric auxiliary seat. The geront-driving 
posture module could save the data and adjust 
the storable steering wheel and the electric seat 
automatically to the position and angle that the 
user set. In order to fit the request of the 
149
5. Cesiel, D., Gaunt, M. C., and Daugherty, B., 
“Development of a steer-by-wire system for 
the GM Sequel,” SAE technical paper series, 
No. 2006-01-1173, 2006. 
6. Yao, Y., “Vehicle steer-by-wire system 
control,” SAE technical paper series, No. 
2006-01-1175, 2006. 
7. Macdonald, A. S., “Approaches to universal 
design in Japanese technological 
industries,” Gerontechnology, Vol. 5, No. 3, 
pp.129-139, 2006. 
8. Atsumi, B., Kanamori, H., and Misugi, K., 
“Toyota’s program for universal design in 
vehicle development,” Gerontechnology, 
Vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 228, 2005. 
9. Moghbell, H., “Electronically assisted 
steering,” SAE: automotive suspensions and 
steering systems (22), pp. 11-20, 1992. 
10. Yih, P., Gerdes, J. C., “Modification of 
vehicle handling characteristics via steer-
by-wire,” IEEE Transactions on Control 
System Technology, Vol. 13, No. 6, pp. 965-
976, 2005. 
11. Jurgen, R. K., “Electronic steering and 
suspensions systems,” Society of 
Automotive Engineers, 1999, Warrendale, 
PA. 
12. Pimentel, J. R., “An architecture for a 
safety-critical steer-by-wire system,” SAE 
technical paper series, No. 2004-01-0714, 
2004. 
151
2008 International Conference on Gerontic Technology and Service Management 
Nan Kai Institute of Technology, Nantou, Taiwan 
May 20-21, 2008 
 118 
assistive equipment flexibly, the cabin space of 
the vehicle should be studied detailed in the 
design stage to avoid the predicament of 
interference with other components in the 
vehicle cabin. For serving elders or physically 
challenged people widely, we intend to design 
the electric assistive seats for both the sedan and 
van vehicle. Two types of the electric assistive 
seat will be designed and implemented in the 
work. The Toyota “Premio 2.0” and the 
Mitsubishi “Varica 1.1” are selected as the 
platforms of developing the sedan and van type 
electric assistive seats respectively. Both of the 
vehicle cabin spaces will be evaluated to help 
the system design of the assistive equipment. 
 
2.1 Evaluation of the Cabin Space 
The proper cabin space evaluation will help 
the correct design of the electric assistive seat. In 
the following both of the Toyota “”Premio 2.0” 
and Mitsubishi “Varica 1.1” cabin spaces will be 
studied and the designer could get some 
geometry and engineering information for the 
system design. 
 
2.1.1 Toyota “Premio 2.0” (sedan) 
Fig. 1 is the photography of the passenger 
seat position of Toyota “Premio 2.0”. It is clear 
that  some brackets are welded at the bottom 
plate to strengthen the vehicle structure. There 
are threads inside the brackets and the seat could 
be fixed on. The bottom plate is lumpy and there 
are handbrake, shift rod, central storage box, 
front storage box, A pillar, front door and B 
pillar around. The front door can not be opened 
perpendicularly to the vehicle body (the angle 
between the vehicle body and the front door is 
about 75 degree). The space is small and the 
mechanism of the system should be compact to 
avoid the interference with the components 
mentioned above. The dimensions of the 
passenger position are about 80cm (length), 
50cm (width) and 90cm (height). 
 
2.1.2 Mitsubishi “Varica 1.1” (van) 
Fig. 2 is the photograph of the middle and 
rear seat positions of  Mitsubishi “Varica 1.1”. 
Comparing with the passenger seat position of 
Toyota “Premio 2.0”, the cabin space of the van 
is wider. Seldom components are within the 
space. But the chassis of van is higher. It means 
that some lift mechanism is required. The 
dimensions of the middle and rear position are 
about 120cm (length), 50cm (width, from the 
vehicle center to the door) and 100cm (height). 
 
2.2 System Design Objective 
The electric assistive seat is a mechatronics 
system, and the synergetic integration of the 
mechanical system, electronic system and 
information technology is necessary. Fig. 3 is 
the schematic diagram of the electric assistive 
seat. The electric assistive seat is composed of 
the movement mechanism, the seat, the motor 
and transmission, and the microcontroller. The 
electric assistive seat could automatically get in 
and out of the vehicle. According to the space 
evaluation given above, the electric assistive seat 
should move and rotate in multi-axis and the 
control system should guide the seat to follow 
some trajectory getting in and out of the vehicle. 
The sedan and van cabin spaces are very 
different, and the functions of the associated 
electric assistive seats are distinct. 
The Toyota “Premio 2.0” (sedan) has low 
chassis and narrow cabin space. There are other 
vehicle components around the passenger seat 
position, and the front door can not be opened 
perpendicularly to the vehicle body. Due to the 
limitation of the cabin space, the function of the 
sedan type electric assistive seat would be 
simple, and it could only move and rotate in a 
plain to the edge of the doorframe. 
The Mitsubishi “Varica 1.1” (van) has the 
wider cabin space but with the high chassis. In 
order to assist the user in getting in and out of 
the van, the electric assistive seat should involve 
a lift mechanism to lift the seat from the ground 
to the vehicle, and vice versa. The assistive seat 
could also be detachable and able to function as 
an independent wheelchair. Transfer from 
another seat to the electric assistive seat is no 
need. The function is very useful because 
“transfer from one position to another” is a main 
challenge in the design of the assistive device. 
 
3. Mechanical System Design 
The mechanical structures of the sedan 
type and the van type electric assistive seats are 
very different. The seat and the movement 
2008 International Conference on Gerontic Technology and Service Management 
Nan Kai Institute of Technology, Nantou, Taiwan 
May 20-21, 2008 
 120 
direction. Fig. 7 is the electric circuit of the 
control system. Fig. 8 is the program flow chart 
of the control system. The protection strategy is 
required in the control system design.  
4.2 Van Electric Assistive Seat 
The control system of the van electric 
assistive seat is similar to the sedan type. Fig. 9 
is the control block diagram of the van electric 
assistive seat. The control system is a 6-axis 
motion control system. Different from the sedan 
type controller, a DC servo motor is used to 
drive the lift mechanism. The power wire and 
control wire of the wheelchair could be released 
from the control system when the wheelchair is 
detached from the lift mechanism. Fig. 10 is the 
electric circuit of the control system. 
 
5. System Implementation 
The mechanical systems and the control 
systems of the two electric assistive seats are 
implemented. Fig. 11 is the prototype of the 
sedan electric assistive seat. Fig. 12 is the 
prototype of the van electric assistive seat. Both 
of them could automatically operate when the 
user pushes the button. 
 
6. Conclusions 
The prototypes of the sedan electric 
assistive seat and the van electric assistive seat 
have been implemented in the work. Both of the 
assistive seats could automatically operate to 
help elders and physically challenged people 
getting in and out of the vehicle. The function of 
the assistive equipment could meet the 
requirements of the design specifications. For 
the sake of serving elderly and physically 
challenged people, the prototypes could be 
upgraded to the level of consumer products by 
the industry-university cooperative research.  
 
7. Acknowledgments 
This work was sponsored by National 
Science Council, ROC, under the grant NSC 96-
2745-E-252-006-URD; this support is gratefully 
acknowledged. The author also expresses the 
great gratitude to miss Chia-Line Chen and Mr. 
Jhih-Fong Wu with their meticulously drawing 
of the figures illustrated in the article. 
 
8. Reference 
1. Older people census report in Taiwan, 1993, 
Ministry of Interior of R. O. C., 1993. 
2. Li, C.M., and Chen, C.Y., Evaluation and 
prevention of falls in the elderly, Taiwan 
Medicine, Vol.9, No.2, pp. 277-283. 
3. Bouma H., Creating adaptive technological 
environments, Gerontechnology, Vol.1, No. 
1, pp. 1-3, 2001. 
4. Graafmans, J.A.M., and Bouma, H., 
Gerontechnology, fitting task and 
environment to the elderly, Proceedings of 
the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society, 
Vol.1, pp. 182-186, 1993. 
5. International Society for Gerontechnology, 
http://www.gerontechnology.info 
6. U.S. Census Bureau, International 
population reports WP/02, Global Population 
Profile: 2002, U.S. Government Printing 
Office, Washington, DC, pp. 1-226, 2004. 
7. Ball, K.K., and Wahl, H., Driving in old age: 
use of technology to promote independence, 
Gerontechnology, Vol.1, No.4, pp. 217-219, 
2002. 
8. Charlton, J., Fildes, B., and Andrea, D., 
Vehicle safety and older occupants, 
Gerontechnology, Vol.1, No. 4, pp. 274-286, 
2002. 
9. Warmink, H.H., The assessment of fitness to 
drive in the elderly, Gerontechnology, Vol.1, 
No. 4, pp. 299-303, 2002. 
10. Atsumi, B., Kanamori, H., and Misugi, K., 
Toyota’s program for universal design in 
vehicle development, Gerontechnology, Vol. 
3, No.4, pp. 228, 2005. 
11. Macdonald, A.S., Approaches to universal 
design in Japanese technological industries, 
Gerontechnology, Vol.5, No.3, pp.129-139, 
2006. 
12. Toyota Motor Company, http://www.toyota. 
co.jp 
13. Nissan Motor Company, http://www.nissan. 
co.jp 
14. Honda Motor Company, http://www.honda. 
co.jp 
15. Erdman, A. G., and Sandor, G. N., 
“Mechanism design: analysis and synthesis,” 
1984, Prentice-Hall, Inc., New Jersey. 
16. Craig, J. J., “Introduction to robotics, 
mechanics and control,” 1989, Addison-
2008 International Conference on Gerontic Technology and Service Management 
Nan Kai Institute of Technology, Nantou, Taiwan 
May 20-21, 2008 
 122 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(d) 
Fig. 4. The design of the sedan electric assistive 
seat. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
2008 International Conference on Gerontic Technology and Service Management 
Nan Kai Institute of Technology, Nantou, Taiwan 
May 20-21, 2008 
 124 
 
Fig. 8. The program flow chart of the control 
system of sedan electric assistive seat 
 
D
r
iv
e
 2
D
r
iv
e
 3
D
r
iv
e
 5
D
r
iv
e
 4
F
o
r s
e
rv
o
 m
o
to
r
 
Fig. 9. The control block diagram of the van 
electric assistive seat. 
 
 
Fig. 10. The electric circuit of the control system. 
 
 
Fig. 11. The prototype of the sedan electric 
assistive seat. 
 
 
Fig. 12. The prototype of the van electric 
assistive seat. 
中國機械工程學會第二十五屆全國學術研討會論文集                               大葉大學  彰化 大村 
中華民國九十七年十一月二十一日、二十二日                                          
 
 
“Premio 2.0” is selected as the platform of developing 
the sedan type electric assistive seat. The vehicle cabin 
spaces will be evaluated to help the system design of the 
assistive equipment. 
2.1 Evaluation of the Cabin Space 
The proper cabin space evaluation will help the 
correct design of the electric assistive seat. In the 
following the Toyota “”Premio 2.0” cabin space will be 
studied and the designer could get some geometry and 
engineering information for the system design. 
Fig. 1 is the photography of the passenger seat 
position of Toyota “Premio 2.0”. It is clear that some 
brackets are welded at the bottom plate to strengthen the 
vehicle structure. There are threads inside the brackets 
and the seat could be fixed on. The bottom plate is 
lumpy and there are handbrake, shift rod, central storage 
box, front storage box, A pillar, front door and B pillar 
around. The front door can not be opened 
perpendicularly to the vehicle body (the angle between 
the vehicle body and the front door is about 75 degree). 
The space is small and the mechanism of the system 
should be compact to avoid the interference with the 
components mentioned above. The dimensions of the 
passenger position are about 80cm (length), 50cm 
(width) and 90cm (height). 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 1. The photography of the passenger seat position 
of Toyota “Premio 2.0” 
2.2 System Design Objective 
The electric assistive seat is a mechatronics system, 
and the synergetic integration of the mechanical system, 
electronic system and information technology is 
necessary. Fig. 2 is the schematic diagram of the electric 
assistive seat. The electric assistive seat is composed of 
the movement mechanism, the seat, the motor and 
transmission, and the microcontroller. The electric 
assistive seat could automatically get in and out of the 
vehicle. According to the space evaluation given above, 
the electric assistive seat should move and rotate in 
multi-axis and the control system should guide the seat 
to follow some trajectory getting in and out of the 
vehicle. 
 
Fig. 2. Schematic representation of the electric assistive 
seat 
The Toyota “Premio 2.0” (sedan) has low chassis 
and narrow cabin space. There are other vehicle 
components around the passenger seat position, and the 
front door can not be opened perpendicularly to the 
vehicle body. Due to the limitation of the cabin space, 
the function of the sedan type electric assistive seat 
would be simple, and it could only move and rotate in a 
plain to the edge of the doorframe. 
 
3. Mechanical System Design 
The mechanical structure of the sedan type 
electric assistive seats is illustrated in the following. The 
seat and the movement mechanism of the sedan electric 
assistive seat are screwed together. All the parts used 
and designed in the research are following the principle: 
the standard part is the first selection to avoid the 
complex and expensive manufacturing process [15, 16]. 
The functions of the sedan electric assistive seat are (1) 
moving within the vehicle as the ordinary electric seat, 
(2) moving and rotating the seat to the edge of the 
doorframe to assist person enter and leave the vehicle. 
The bottom plate of the passenger seat position is 
lumpy, so an interface frame is required. The interface 
frame will make the design simple. The interface frame 
中國機械工程學會第二十五屆全國學術研討會論文集                               大葉大學  彰化 大村 
中華民國九十七年十一月二十一日、二十二日                                          
 
 
trend of independent daily life for old adults and 
physically challenged people in the future, the 
development of the automatic control system of the 
electric assistive seat is required. 
In order to increase the operation security, both the 
hardware and software of the control system of the 
electric assistive seat are upgrade. Three current sensors 
are used to detect the currents of the motors. Due to the 
property of the motor, the increasing of current through 
the motor means the increasing of the load of the system. 
From the view point of the mechanical system, it could 
be something is squeezed or jammed in the guide. From 
the view point of the user, it could be portion of the 
body, such as feet, leg, etc., interferes with the assistive 
equipment or with the vehicle, and then reacting in the 
motor is increasing the load. When the current sensors 
detect the currents over the default values, the control 
system will shut down the motors until all the obstacles 
are moved away. This security strategy could decrease 
the injury when the user operate the assistive equipment 
to access the vehicle. But only with the current sensors 
to detect the unusual conditions is not enough to protect 
the user. The “stop” push button remains including in 
the control system to stop the system when the user is 
conscious of the dangers. The EEPROM is used to store 
the system parameters, such as the seat position …, 
when the system is stopped due to some barrier. When 
the “re-start” button is pushed, the system will run 
continued from the stopping point to the end point. 
 
 
Fig. 4. The control block diagram of the sedan electric 
assistive seat. 
 
8051
Driver 
0
F-B
Driver 
1
CC-RC
Driver 
2
R-L
M
0
M
1
M
2
L0
L1
L2
MUX
PF
PB
PR
PL
PCC
PRC
+5V
PS
P1.2
P1.3
P1.4
P1.5
P1.6
P1.7
P2.6
P3.2
P2.0
P2.1
P2.2
P2.3
P2.4
P2.5
P3.1
P3.0
P1.0
P3.3
P3.4
P3.5
P3.6
P3.7
P2.7
A
A
A
PWM
B
PWM
PWM
B
B
220
220
220
10K
10K
10K
+5V
B
RC
L
PWM
PWM
PWM
93c46
+5v
P0.0
P0.1
10K
P0.2
P0.3
PC817
Limit 
Switches
 
Fig. 5. The electric circuit of the control system of sedan 
electric assistive seat. 
 
 
Fig. 6. The program flow chart of the control system of 
sedan electric assistive seat 
 
中國機械工程學會第二十五屆全國學術研討會論文集                               大葉大學  彰化 大村 
中華民國九十七年十一月二十一日、二十二日                                          
 
 
15. Erdman, A. G., and Sandor, G. N., “Mechanism 
design: analysis and synthesis,” 1984, Prentice-Hall, 
Inc., New Jersey. 
16. Craig, J. J., “Introduction to robotics, mechanics and 
control,” 1989, Addison-Wesley Publishing 
Company, Inc., Massachusetts. 
17. Krishnan, R., “Electric motor drives, modelling, 
analysis, and control,” 2001, Prentice-Hall, Inc., 
New Jersey. 
 
 
 
 
具有安全操作模式之電動福祉座椅 
原型製作 
王得安
1
、嚴明仁
2
、林炎成
1
、江木勝
1
、謝雅意
1
 
1
南開科技大學機械工程系  
2
南開科技大學電子工程系 
國科會計畫編號：NSC 94-2745-E-252-006-URD 
  
摘要  
本文敘述轎車專用之電動福祉座椅初型設計。
本電動福祉座椅之目的為克服銀髮族長者或殘障人
士進出車輛之障礙，並保護照顧者免去因抱持行動不
便人士進出車輛時可能發生之傷害。當使用者坐定位
後，電動福祉座椅可自動移入及移出車輛，幫助使用
者更容易上下車輛，解決用車行動的困擾。電動福祉
座椅的研發分成四部份：1. 移動機構設計、2. 座椅
設計、3. 馬達驅動設計以及4. 微電腦控制系統設
計。為了分析及設計福祉座椅之移動機構及座椅，本
研究採用SolidWorks軟體為設計工具。制動器及傳動
系統採用一般車輛電動座椅所使用之直流馬達搭配
合適之減速機構。控制系統以8051微處理器為核心，
同時發展相關之電路及程式撰寫。不同於以往之電動
福祉座椅，本研究所發展之福祉座椅包含安全操作模
式以避免使用者於操作時可能發生之危險。此安全操
作模式係以電流感測器監控馬達是否因任何原因造
成之負載過大，而停止馬達運轉。本研究已完成轎車
用電動福祉座椅之初型設計及製作，經測試可運轉於
轎車中。 
 
關鍵字：電動福祉座椅，福祉車輛，照顧輔具 
中華民國第十三屆車輛工程學術研討會, 明志科技大學 機械工程系,車輛工程系. 台灣台北, 2008年10月31日. 
The 13th National Conference on Vehicle Engineering, Oct. 31, 2008, Ming Chi University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.          X – xxx 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 xxx
the cars more conveniently. But the Geront-Vehicles 
refitted from the general cars sometimes could not satisfy 
the requirement, especially for the handicapped who want 
to drive the cars by themselves, not only driving the 
vehicles conveniently but also getting in and out easily. 
For serving the ageing society in the future, motor 
vehicles designed particularly for the elders are necessary. 
Some motor companies in Japan have included the 
“universal design” concept in the vehicle development to 
satisfy the requirements of rapidly aging population [7]. 
The “universal design” is the design of products and 
environments to be usable by all people, to the greatest 
possible, without the need for adaptation or specialized 
design (Ron Mace) [8]. Several vehicle models, which 
could satisfy whether one is aged, disabled, or not, with 
the “universal design” concept have been exhibited [9]. 
Figure 1 shows the Geront-Vehicle with the electric 
auxiliary passenger seat developed in Nan Kai University 
of Technology (NKUT), Taiwan. The Geront-Vehicle is 
refitted from the Toyota passenger car “Premio” (the 
model’s name in Taiwan) with the electric assistive 
equipment. When the older adult sits on the electric 
auxiliary passenger seat, the seat will move and rotate 
automatically to help person getting in and out the vehicle 
effortlessly. The cabin space application of the 
Geront-Vehicle is the same as usual. But for a good 
Geront-Vehicle, there should be some value added in the 
cabin space utilization. 
 
 
Figure 1. The electric auxiliary passenger seat in NKUT 
 
3. The Movable Steering Wheel System 
In order to install some assistive equipment in the 
Geront-Vehicle (or the Welfare-Vehicle), the cabin space 
of the Geront-Vehicle should be roomier. The existence of 
the steering wheel, the seat mounting brackets, the shift 
rod and the central storage box is always the challenge in 
the setting and operating of the auxiliary equipment. 
Sometimes the vehicle should be refitted to avoid the 
interference between the assistive equipment and the 
component parts within the cabin. In the research we focus 
on eliminating the obstacle of installing and operating the 
electric auxiliary seat on the driver seat position. The 
electric auxiliary seat is seldom set on the driver seat 
position since the steering wheel is the barrier in the 
moving of the electric auxiliary seat. Intuitively, if the 
steering wheel could be moved into the dash-board of the 
vehicle, the barrier is removed and most of the assistive 
equipment only set on the passenger seat position could 
also be installed on the driver seat position. Recently, the 
idea of the movable steering wheel could be realized due 
to the progress of the steer-by-wire technology; because 
there is no mechanical linkage between the steering wheel 
and the power assist unit in the steer-by-wire system. 
 
3.1 Steer-by-Wire Technology 
The steering system in the vehicle is utilized to turn the 
car. The traditional power steering system includes four 
major components, which are the steering wheel, the 
steering shaft, the hydraulic assist case and the steering 
arm. As illustrated in Figure 2, every component is linked 
together by some mechanical elements, and the steering 
command given by the driver could be transferred to the 
front wheels to turn the vehicle. 
 
 
Figure 2. Traditional power steering system 
 
But this kind of power steering has a disadvantage of 
power consumption. The hydraulic system draws 
continuous power even when power steering is not needed. 
A new advancement currently finding is referred to as 
electrical assist steering. In this system the hydraulic assist 
case is replaced by electronically controlled sensors and 
actuators. The sensors determine which way the wheel is 
turning and cause the actuators to provide additional force 
in that direction to aid the mechanical linkage. With this 
configuration energy is not wasted as with hydraulics. 
Energy is only used when the wheels are turned [10, 11]. 
The mechanical linkage provides continued control, 
however frictional losses and time constraints still exist 
from the mechanical connection. 
The next step in steering system evolution – to 
completely do away with the steering column and shaft – 
represents a dramatic departure from traditional 
automotive design practice. The substitution of electronic 
systems in place of mechanical or hydraulic controls is 
known as “by-wire technology” [12]. This idea is not so 
new and it is coming from the airplane design concept. 
Removing the mechanical linkage between the steering 
中華民國第十三屆車輛工程學術研討會, 明志科技大學 機械工程系,車輛工程系. 台灣台北, 2008年10月31日. 
The 13th National Conference on Vehicle Engineering, Oct. 31, 2008, Ming Chi University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.          X – xxx 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 xxx
brake-by-wire, acceleration-by-wire, GPS, etc…., and 
other assistive equipment, the elderly will use the vehicle 
conveniently, safely and independently. The wonderful 
Geront-Vehicle will help the old adults to promote their 
mobility and independence in later life [1, 7, 9]. 
 
4.1 Design 
The cabin design of the wonderful Geront-Vehicle 
focuses on the features of bliss, easy, smart and mobility 
independence. The sedan car is chosen to be the platform 
of the Geront-Vehicle. If the steering wheel could be 
moved into the dash- board of the vehicle due to the 
progress of the steer-by-wire technology, the space of the 
front seats will become roomier. In the usual cabin style, 
all the seats of the vehicle are facing forward. The style 
really expresses the message of driving the vehicle where 
you want to go. But the cabin of the vehicle should not be 
only with the purpose of carrying people, it should include 
the function of enjoying the cabin space when people 
drive. 
Figure 6 illustrates the first style of the cabin of the 
wonderful Geront-Vehicle. The wonderful Geront-Vehicle 
has the flat cabin floor, long guides and the movable 
central storage box. When the driver parks the car and 
takes a rest in the cabin, the front seats could be pushed 
very back. Since the steering wheel is moved away, the 
space between the front seats and the dash-board will be 
very wide. The movable central storage box could be 
move anywhere along the long guides. The design is a 
good style for the couple to enjoy the beautiful time. The 
elders could fell blissfully when they drive the wonderful 
Geront-Vehicle in the later years of life. The second cabin 
style is illustrated in Figure 7, where the front seats are 
backward. Due to the movable steering wheel, the front 
seats could be pulled very front. The space between the 
front seats and the rear seats is wider. The cabin of the 
wonderful Geront-Vehicle is like a small living room. In 
Chinese or other Orient societies grandfather and 
grandmother always like to share their daily lives with 
their grandchildren. When the elders are with the children 
of their children, they are always happy, joyful, 
pleasurable and satisfied. The application in Figure 7 is 
suitable for elders having a tour with their grandchildren. 
The cabin will become a living room when they take a rest 
in the trip. 
 
 
Figure 6. First style of the cabin design 
 
Figure 7. Second style of the cabin design 
 
The wonderful Geront-Vehicle with the movable 
steering wheel also has the great advantage in the 
application of the electric auxiliary seat for the disabilities 
to drive the vehicle. The main challenge for the disabilities 
or the elders to drive the car is how to access the vehicle 
easily. Recently the electric auxiliary seats have been 
developed rapidly, and they could be easily operated to 
help the disabilities or the elders getting in and out of the 
vehicle. However, the electric auxiliary seat is always set 
on the passenger seat position. Because the steering wheel 
is the barrier in the moving of the electric auxiliary seat, 
the electric auxiliary seat is seldom set on the driver seat 
position unless the vehicle has a wide front door. But the 
status would be changed due to the coming of the movable 
steering wheel. When the steering wheel is dramatically 
moved into the dash board of the vehicle, the electric 
assistive seat could be set on both the driver and passenger 
positions. As illustrated in Figure 8, the wonderful 
Geront-Vehicle will be very smart for the elders or the 
disabilities. Moreover, the acceleration-by-wire and 
break-by-wire could also be integrated around the steering 
wheel or near the dash-board to help the disabilities and 
elders easy to drive. The wonderful Geront-Vehicle 
presented here has the potential to assist the elders and 
disabilities with independent mobility. 
 
 
Figure 8. The electric auxiliary seat is set on the driver seat 
position 
 
4.2 Required Technologies 
中華民國第十三屆車輛工程學術研討會, 明志科技大學 機械工程系,車輛工程系. 台灣台北, 2008年10月31日. 
The 13th National Conference on Vehicle Engineering, Oct. 31, 2008, Ming Chi University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.          X – xxx 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 xxx
4.2.5 Human factors and ergonomics 
All the items developed above should include the 
studies of human factors and ergonomics. The research of 
the human factors and the ergonomics could help 
engineers to design the suitable products for the users. The 
designer could also apply the “universal design concept” 
[7, 8] in the development of the wonderful Geront-Vehicle. 
Perhaps someday the wonderful Geront-Vehicle may not 
only be usable for the older adults or disabilities but also 
be favorable for other people. 
 
5. Conclusions 
The cabin design concept of the Geront-Vehicle with 
the movable steering wheel system has been introduced in 
the article. The novel steering wheel technology will 
become possible due to the progress of the steer-by-wire 
system. Two cabin design examples are exhibited with the 
application of the steering wheel moved into the 
dash-board of the vehicle. The advantage of the movable 
steering wheel design is that the cabin space will become 
roomier and the electric auxiliary seat for the disabilities 
or the elders could be set on the driver seat position. Four 
features of the wonderful Geront-Vehicle are assimilated 
into the design. The required technologies to realize the 
wonderful Geront-Vehicle are also pointed out. The 
potential of the cabin style is evident. 
 
6. Acknowledgments 
This work was sponsored by National Science Council , 
ROC, under the grant NSC 96-2745-E-252-006-URD; this 
support is gratefully acknowledged. The author also 
expresses the great gratitude to miss Chia-Line Chen with 
her meticulously drawing of the figures illustrated in the 
article. 
 
7. References 
[1] Ball, K. K., and Wahl, H. W., “Driving in old age: use 
of technology to promote independence,” 
Gerontechnology, Vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 217-219, 2002. 
[2] Farber, B., “Can telematics improve mobility of the 
elderly,” Gerontechnology, Vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 
287-290, 2002. 
[3] Charlton, J., Fildes, B., and Andrea, D., “Vehicle 
safety and older occupants,” Gerontechnology, Vol. 1, 
No. 4, pp. 274-286, 2002. 
[4] Warmink, H. H., “The assessment of fitness to drive 
in the elderly,” Gerontechnology, Vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 
299-303, 2002. 
[5] Cesiel, D., Gaunt, M. C., and Daugherty, B., 
“Development of a steer-by-wire system for the GM 
Sequel,” SAE technical paper series, No. 
2006-01-1173, 2006. 
[6] Yao, Y., “Vehicle steer-by-wire system control,” SAE 
technical paper series, No. 2006-01-1175, 2006. 
[7] Macdonald, A. S., “Approaches to universal design in 
Japanese technological industries,” Gerontechnology, 
Vol. 5, No. 3, pp.129-139, 2006. 
[8] The Center for Universal Design – environments and 
products for all people, http://www.design.ncsu.edu/ 
cud/about_us/usronmace.htm 
[9] Atsumi, B., Kanamori, H., and Misugi, K., “Toyota’s 
program for universal design in vehicle development,” 
Gerontechnology, Vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 228, 2005. 
[10] Moghbell, H., “Electronically assisted steering,” SAE: 
automotive suspensions and steering systems (22), pp. 
11-20, 1992. 
[11] Yih, P., Gerdes, J. C., “Modification of vehicle 
handling characteristics via steer-by-wire,” IEEE 
Transactions on Control System Technology, Vol. 13, 
No. 6, pp. 965-976, 2005. 
[12] Jurgen, R. K., “Electronic steering and suspensions 
systems,” Society of Automotive Engineers, 1999, 
Warrendale, PA. 
[13] Pimentel, J. R., “An architecture for a safety-critical 
steer-by-wire system,” SAE technical paper series, 
No. 2004-01-0714, 2004. 
 
 
 
 
