 2 
An overview of proposed system 
 
In this subsection, the proposed system which can 
dynamically compose a suite of review course in 
accordance with a learner’s intention is introduced. 
Fig. 1 shows the basic architecture, which contains 
main four modules for dynamic review course 
composition. In the first module, Concept Analysis 
and Expansion is responsible for receiving the query 
that a learner issued, and decomposing and 
transferring it into several meaningful concepts, 
called primitive concepts. For the purpose of smooth 
review, this module expands the primitive concepts 
through the guidance of CSM and produces an 
extensive concept set including those to be reviewed. 
Subsequently, Materials picking with DPSO module 
searches for the related review materials which are 
associated with the concepts in the expanded concept 
set. Later, in the course composition process, Course 
Composition module plans the order of selected 
materials by the greedy-like approach. Finally, a 
customized review course is completed for the learner. 
Especially, the proposed system also provides the 
module, Interactive Tagger, which enables the 
learner to tag the studied material. When the tagger 
finds that a material is tagged by some extra concepts 
frequently, this extra concept will be built into the tag 
set of this material. By the tag function, the tags of 
each material can be more conformed to the content 
of this material. 
 
 
Fig. 1. The framework of interactive and dynamic 
review course composition system. 
 
3 Experiment and evaluation 
 
3.1 Measures 
 The effectiveness of an information retrieval 
system is usually measured by two quantities and one 
combined measure. The “Recall” and “Precision” 
rates are the two quantities, and the F-measure is the 
combined measure. In this research, they are applied 
to measure the proper degree of the customized 
review course. From the recall perspective shown as 
Fig. 2(a), the Ne is the number of expanded concepts, 
and Np is the number of the concepts in the 
customized review course. If the interaction of Ne and 
Np is higher, the concepts in the customized review 
course can cover the majority of expanded concepts. 
Here, this research defines the recall as the ratio of 
pe NN   and Ne. The higher ratio represents that 
the customized review course is more conformed to 
the expanded concepts. From the precision 
perspective shown as Fig. 2(b), it considers the 
precision degree of the customized review course. If 
the set )( pep NNN   is fewer, this means that 
the course has higher precision because the 
customized review course only contains few uncared 
concepts. The precision is defined as the ratio of 
pe NN   and Np,, whose measures are expressed as 
follows, where the f-measure is combination measure 
to evaluate the recall and precision together.  
 
Fig. 2. The notions of the recall and precision. 
Measure 1: 
e
pe
N
NN
Recall

 , 
Measure 2: 
p
pe
N
NN
Precision

 , 
Measure 3: 
PrecisionRecall
PrecisionRecall2
measuref


  
 
3.2 Experimental Setting 
 
 Before discussing the experimental result, 
several experimental settings must be introduced first. 
The related parameters are illustrated in the Table. 1: 
Each material is tagged by several related concepts 
which include the relevance degrees. In DPSO, two 
numbers of particles, 10 and 20 are used to find the 
optimal solution. Different termination conditions are 
selected to evaluate the variations of fitness values. 
Besides, five material repositories which have 
different numbers of materials also are also availed in 
the experiments. 
 
Table. 1. Experimental parameters setting. 
 
 
 4 
classified to some subjects as shown in Table. 3. 
There are eight single-subjects and three 
multi-subjects. The multi-subject A covers the 
Object-orient Programming Concepts, Class concepts 
and Inheritance. The multi-subject B contains 
Variables, Expressions, Statements and Blocks, and 
Control Flow Statements. The final multi-subject C 
includes Class concepts, Inheritance and Interface. 
At the eight single-subjects, the General feedbacks lie 
in between 46% and 62%, which represents the 
reading order without smooth reading is still accepted. 
Yet in the Satisfied and Bad feedbacks, they are 
around 20%~30%. But it is obvious that the General 
feedbacks in multi-subjects are lower 10% than in 
single-subjects. Unfortunately, the Satisfied feedbacks 
in multi-subjects are diminished to 20% below while 
the Bad feedbacks are raised to around 45%. Let’s 
look at the Fig. 6(a), it shows the average rates of 
three feedback types in single subjects and in multi 
subjects, respectively. From the results, learners seem 
have bad feelings when they read the customized 
review courses which cover multi-subjects without 
smooth reading. Next, in the right of Table. 4, the 
feedbacks result with smooth reading. For the 
single-subject, the General feedbacks keep the similar 
rates as the rates without smooth reading, while the 
Satisfied feedbacks are increased about 10% and Bad 
feedbacks also are reduced. Subsequently, let us look 
at the results in the multi-subjects, in which the rates 
of Satisfied feedbacks are excitingly increased very 
much. Despite around 20%~25% increments, the 
rates of Bad feedbacks are reduced to 12%~16%. 
From the Fig. 6(b) which using the smooth reading, 
the average rates of three feedback types, Satisfied 
feedbacks are increased especially in the 
multi-subjects; moreover the Bad feedbacks are also 
reduced substantially. From above experimental 
results, adopting the smooth reading order by the 
greedy-like materials composition approach indeed 
contribute the learners a more smooth and suitable 
review order. 
 
Table. 3. The satisfied degrees in different subjects 
with no smooth reading and smooth reading. 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 6. The satisfied degrees of reading order. (a) 
Without smooth reading. (b) With smooth reading 
 
 
5. Conclusion 
 
In this research, an interactive and dynamic review 
course composition system is proposed. Each learner 
can interact with this system by entering the queries. 
When the proposed system receives a query, it will 
compose a customized review course dynamically. In 
the process of the composition, there are three 
approaches to be applied to customize the suitable 
course. The first approach is contextual semantic 
expansion, which utilizes the CSM to find out which 
concepts should be recommended to review. In the 
materials picking, the second approach, DPSO, is 
adopted to select better and more subject-related 
materials. By DPSO, these materials which are 
conformed to the learner’s intention will be 
appropriately selected. Finally, the smooth reading is 
applied to smooth the order of the materials in the 
customized review course, with the greedy-like 
approach to sequence the order of materials. 
 In the experiment, the results in three different 
experiments are manifested and discussed. The first 
part is to probe the DSPO performance, where two 
numbers of particles and three different generations 
are used to evaluate the variation of fitness values. It 
is more obvious that larger particles and larger 
generation can increase more time of convergence. 
Considering the computing overhead and time of 
customizing review course, the particles=20 and 
generations=100 are adopted in the proposed system. 
Besides, the experiments also analyze the satisfied 
degrees of recommended materials and the reading 
orders. The contextual semantic expansion proves 
that it can offer more subject-related materials for the 
learner because the higher feedbacks lie in Very 
Satisfied, Satisfied, and General. Similarly, this 
system also compares the satisfied degrees with 
smooth reading and no smooth reading, in which the 
