 2
an integrated parallel computer vision system. 
Thus we take the development of such a system 
as our goal. This research project spans two 
years, with the goal to investigate (and design) 
the functions and interface of the composing 
parallel processor subsystems needed in the 
vision system. The use of FPGA chips to match 
the parallel processors we have will also be 
studied to realize our integrated parallel vision 
system. 
In the first year of research, we have 
studied and reached a conclusion about how to 
realize the high-speed parallel system. 
Implementing the various needed functions and 
subsystems based on ASIC chips offers slightly 
faster speed in hardware, yet the (time and labor) 
cost for the design and fabrication is quite high. 
Although the development of shared ASIC chip 
for more functions may reduce the number of IC 
chips to be developed (/fabricated), the design of 
unified hardware that implements different 
category of functions is not easy. In this research, 
we have explored the feasibility to develop a 
unified parallel processor design for both the line 
and circle detection. Though it is achievable, it 
takes much time to design and even longer 
waiting for the chip fabrication and verification. 
Considering the use of high-performance 
FPGA chips (with numerous internal memory 
blocks), we find from our research that many 
parallel image processing functions can be 
implemented with high efficiency. While using 
the DSP blocks contained in some FPGA chips, 
the parallel 3x3 image convolution and quite a 
few high-level subsystem functions (such as the 
line detection) can be easily achieved. These 
advantages, plus the availability of commercial 
FPGA chips, encourage us to adopt the FPGA 
chips as the basic construction components to 
build our highly parallel system. 
We choose to adopt the FPGA chips of the 
Lattice ECP-series, and have developed two 
sorts of circuit-boards suitable for image 
processing. These two FPGA circuit-boards offer 
great convenience for the development of needed 
parallel processors and the connection between 
processor modules (via the interface of the 
circuit boards); while one of the above boards 
has equipped with a DVI input interface. 
Currently, the system is able to input the video 
sequence (color or grey-level) via the DVI 
interface. And through the preprocessing in 
FPGA, the image can be linked to specific 
parallel processors and/or modules for further 
real-time processing or detection. 
From the above progress and the 
developing of a few parallel image processing 
functions on FPGA, we have been able to realize 
a prototype of high-speed parallel vision system. 
Now the only hardware lack of is the DVI output 
interface for the FPGA circuit boards. The 
parallel vision system may always send out 
abstracted detection results to a computer. While 
with the provision of the DVI output interface 
for the FPGA board (to be ready in the 2nd year), 
the detection results of the vision system, 
marked within the original input image, can be 
directly sent out from the FPGA (as its DVI 
output) for monitor display. 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
影像處理速度在電腦視覺常是必要的考
量，許多視覺的即時應用必須在下張影像來到
前完成影像處理、特徵萃取、甚或圖形辨認、
物件偵測定位；速度常是決定一個視覺系統能
否實用的關鍵。 
 4
新累計記憶體，也以相同的快速陣列電路萃取
峰值輸出，但影像資料輸入的格式則有不同。
在本計畫中為減少系統複雜度，我們尋求設計
通用的架構/電路來處理這兩種不同的偵測，
也注意到利用內含於 FPGA 晶片現成的乘加器
區塊(如 Lattice 的 ECP 系列產品)，可以快速
方便地提供直線偵測所需的 r-位址計算（只要
輸入都採用邊緣點(x,y)座標輸入的格式），此
修改後共同的電路架構如圖三所示： 
 
圖三  適用於圓偵測之 FPGA 並行處理機架構：此圖
顯示執行圓偵測的輸入資料安排；圖上方的圓圈
為多工器，當區域記憶體的資料被讀取後再寫
入，即可產生移轉資料至下個區域記憶體的作用 
 
圖四 以圖三之架構作為直線偵測的輸入資料安排：初
始載入的各角度正餘弦值可存在對應 PE 的暫存
器中(並不需要區域記憶體)，而處理機單元輸出
的 10-bit 位址通常已是足夠 
此處圖三所顯示的位元數是基於圓偵測
其所涉及的邊緣點與圓心座標不超過 1024 x 
1024 的範圍以及 64 個 PE 的並行處理。就直線
偵測而言，各角度正餘弦值儲存於各對應處理
單元的暫存器即可，並不需使用區域記憶體；
對於一般用於 512 x 512 圖像的直線偵測，處
理單元須產生 10 位元的位址，其架構及資料
安排如圖四所示；而直線偵測處理單元所需電
路只要兩個乘法器連至一個加法器即可，其資
料安排及位元數如圖五所示。 
 
圖五 用於圖四直線偵測之處理單元電路（在 Lattice 
FPGA 晶片的 DSP 區塊具含此電路功能） 
除了前述發展，本研究的一項重要(方法)
成果是我們研究了如何方便、即時地輸入動態
影像至我們的 FPGA 晶片：從協助廠商發展
HDTV 規格的全彩 LED 看板的合作經驗中，我們
知經由電腦的 DVI 介面可容易地將動態影像
即時輸入至 FPGA 的技術，只要加入少數協助
電路就不會超過 FPGA 晶片處理速度的極限。
如此我們即可簡單地由個人電腦輸出彩色或
灰階動態影像，經初步 FPGA 影像預處理後，
再連接傳送至特定的並行處理機晶片或特別
設定的 FPGA 模組做進一步即時處理或偵測。 
我們的另部份重要成果是研究了如何利
用 FPGA 晶片內建的記憶體及其提供的 DSP 區
塊(如 Lattice 的 ECP 系列產品)，以產生高速
的並行影像處理如迴旋運算(有多種方式)及
其他甚多項高速影像預處理設計，諸如 Sobel
運算(水平及垂直方向各只需要 3個加法器)、
邊緣點偵測、影像區域的邊界偵測、邊界的擴
張/收縮運作及階層式邊緣點濃縮，我們利用
