2一、研究計畫中英文摘要：
計畫中文摘要
關鍵詞： 熱透鏡效應，非線性吸收，非線性折射
非線性材料的光限制現象可以保護偵測器如人眼等不受強的雷射脈衝所傷
害。在提案中，我們介紹了一個雙焦點的設計，這個設計利用了非線性吸收，非
線性折射以及非線性散射三種機制，並使用反射鏡來取代透鏡，如此將可使體積
減少一半，另外也可以消除透鏡的色像差，而在實驗測試時，我們注意到熱效應
對光限制器的效率有極大的影響，在此我們非線性吸收材料產生的熱效應作一個
詳細的分析。包括熱產生與熱傳遞在溶質的激發態中以及與週遭溶劑分子的交互
作用，著重於熱透鏡效應發生之機制，特別是利用皮秒脈衝串和奈秒脈衝做一系
列的探討，所得實驗結果與理論模擬作一比較，並確認熱透鏡效應於不同脈衝寬
度時所適用之理論模型。
計畫英文摘要
Keywords：Thermal lensing effect, Nonlinear absorption, Nonlinear refraction
The phenomenon of passive optical limiting serves the purpose of protecting
sensors and eyes from strong incident laser pulses. In the proposal, we introduced a
dual-focus limiter system that combines nonlinear absorption, nonlinear refraction and
nonlinear scattering last year. The new design with mirrors instead of lenses reduced
the size by a factor of two and removed the chromatic effect of lenses. During the
experiments, we observed the effects of the induced thermal lens significantly reduced
the performance of the optical limiter. Therefore we investigate the thermal effect
induced by the strong nonlinear absorption thoroughly. The details include the heat
generation and propagation process in the solution system, involving the energy
transitions intra-molecularly and inter-molecularly. The mechanism of the formation
of the thermal lens is explained explicitly. With the data obtained with the ps pulse
train and the ns pulse and the results of theoretical simulation, we confirm the model
of the thermal lensing effect with regarding to the excitation pulse width.
4interaction presumably, and turns into heat within the molecule at the speed of
    
  
00
1 11
2
0
1 11
2
2
SS
S SS
S
S TT
a N IdQ
a N I
dt
N I
a N I
   

   

   
   




, (1)
where Q denotes the thermal energy accumulated within the solute molecules per
unit volume. 1S ( 1 780 nmS  ) corresponds to the energy of the first excited state
in the singlet manifold to the ground state. The second and third terms describe the
contributions of the sequential relaxations following the one photon excitation
1 2|0) | )S S and the two photon 0 2| )S S excitations, respectively. The last
term describes the contribution of the sequential relaxations in the triplet manifold.
 occurs after the intramolecular heat ( Q ) dissipates throughout the
surrounding solvent molecules in a local thermal equilibrium time therm . How 
drives an acoustic wave equation and thus induces  can be understood via the
thermal-acoustic wave equation. Considering three main equations of hydrodynamics:
continuity (mass conservation), Navier-Stokes (momentum conservation) and energy
transport equation (energy conservation), the wave equation has been derived in ref.
[13]-[15] as
   
2
2 2 2 2 2
2 2
e
s sv b v It nc
           

, (2)
where sv is the velocity of the acoustic wave,  / Pb      , with the subscript
P denoting the pressure, is the volume expansivity and 2( / )e n      is the
electrostrictive coupling constant. All the parameters pertain to the solvent (toluene).
The second term on the right hand side of eq. (2) (the electrostrictive effect) does not
play a significant role compared with the first term (thermal effect) for our absorptive
solution. With the assumption that  is slow-varying, we can further approximate
eq. (2) as
2
therm 2 22 4
e e
s
b
n b I
n n cv
     . (3)
Experimental results and discussion
The Z-scan technique (Fig. 3) is a simple yet sensitive technique for measuring
materials’nonlinear absorption and refraction. Its operation has been described in
detail in.[16] The normalized transmittance (NT) and the normalized axial
transmittance (NTa) are functions of sample position z. NT involves nonlinear
6This type of Z-scan data indicates that the solution possesses negative nonlinear
refraction as we would expect from an absorptive liquid solution [16].
Fig. 1. The Z-scan curve for 21-ns pulse trains with energy 0.84
μJ (solid lines: theoretical result with eq. (2), dash lines:
theoretical result with eq.(3). (a) squares: experiment result with
aperture (b) triangles: experiment result without aperture). (c)
dots: The divided experimental result.
Fig. 2. The Z-scan curve for 21-ns pulse trains with energy 1.43
μJ (solid lines: theoretical result with eq. (2), dash lines:
theoretical result with eq. (3). (a) squares: experiment result with
aperture (b) triangles: experiment result without aperture). (c)
dots: The divided experimental result.
One interesting observation is, although the steady-state equation eq. (3) can be
applied to both energy data reasonably well, the higher energy (1.4 μJ) data seems to 
be fited beter than the lower energy (0.8 μJ) one, as shown in Fig. 1(b) and Fig. 2(b),
respectively. However, it is not generally true. When the thermal acoustic equation, eq.
(2), is applied to emulate the thermal effect, the density variation  is driven by
the rising temperature  . Because the governing equation is an acoustic wave
8Conclusion
We successfully applied the Z-scan technique on the SiNc-toluene solution and
quantitatively accounted for the energy transfer among the energy bands in the solute
molecules and the heat generated from the non-radiative relaxations. The
thermal-lensing effect mainly due to the density change in the solvent toluene is
presented and the resulted thermal-acoustic model is verified with two excitations, 2.8
ns pulses and 18 ps pulse trains. The validity of the simplified steady-state model is
also examined. By introducing the thermal models, the internal nonlinearities of the
Fig. 3. The Z-scan curve for 2.8-ns pulses with energy 1.35 μJ 
(solid lines: theoretical result with eqs. (10) and (8), dash lines:
theoretical result with eq.(11). (a) squares: experiment result
with aperture (b) triangles: experiment result without aperture).
(c) dots: The divided experimental result.
Fig. 4. The Z-scan curve for 2.8-ns pulses with energy 2.46
(solid lines: theoretical result with eqs. (10) and (8), dash lines:
theoretical result with eq.(11). (a) squares: experiment result
with aperture (b) triangles: experiment result without aperture).
(c) dots: The divided experimental result.
