ABSTRACT 
In the present study, we modified poly (ethylene-co-vinyl alcohol) (EVAL) membranes by the 
covalent bonding of diamine via epoxidation of surface hydroxyl groups to analyze the effect of 
grafted diamine with different carbon-chain length on the cultured cerebellar granule neurons. 
Morphological studies showed neurons seeded on the diamine-immobilized EVAL membrane were 
able to survive and regenerate with formation of an extensive neuritic network. Furthermore, 
cultured neurons showed that the presence of diamine with different carbon-chain length was 
capable of providing a magic environment to effectively regulate the neuron development, but 
mediated neuronal activity with equal efficacy. The short-chain amine stimulated neuron 
aggregation and neurite fasciculation, whereas the long carbon-chain diamine maintained single 
neuron distribution with the defasciculated feature of the neurite. Although it is known that 
positively charged amine molecules can interact directly with cell surface proteoglycans to mediate 
cell attachment, this study further demonstrated that the terminal primary amine with different 
carbon-chain length is involved in mediating cellular response to regulate neuron migration and 
guidance of neurite growth pattern. This indicates a delicate interaction of neuron with the 
immobilized diamine molecules on the EVAL membrane surface. The current work is encouraging 
since this diamine-containing system may set a neuron model for future investigations of neuron 
biology and offer a future option for nerve regeneration. 
 
Keywords: poly (ethylene-co vinyl alcohol) (EVAL), diamine, neuron aggregation, neurite 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 During the past several decades, many techniques have been developed to combine the 
polymer biomaterials with neuronal cells due to the attempts to replace lost or dysfunctional 
neurons following trauma or disease [1-10]. Polymer of basic amino acids such as polylysine is 
the most commonly used coating biomaterial in the preparation of neuronal cultures [1]. However, 
coating polylysine on the substrate is non-covalent attachment, which may be lost by washing 
steps. Therefore, other amine-containing polymers or polyamines have attracted much attention 
[11-15]. Ruegg and Hefti demonstrated that diamines covalently bound onto substrate surfaces 
could support neuronal attachment and growth [11]. Makohliso et al. demonstrated that 
fluorinated ethylenepropylene membrane could store positive charges by a corona charging 
process to induce higher levels of neurite outgrowth [16]. In the previous study, we have 
covalently immobilized basic amino acids to poly (ethylene-co-vinyl alcohol) (EVAL) to promote 
neuronal cell survival and guidance of neuritic processes [10]. Since these funtional groups are 
positively charged at physiological pH, Massia and Hubbel demonstrated that these substrates 
were mediated primarily by cell surface chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans [17]. Piepkorn and 
Chapman also provided evidence for cell surface proteoglycan-mediated spreading on a 
positively charged substrate [18]. 
In the present study, EVAL membranes were modified by the covalent bonding of diamine 
with different carbon-chain length via epoxidation of surface hydroxyl groups. We used FT-IR 
and contact angle to assay the membrane surface properties after modification then 
1,3-Diaminopropane (Aldrich), 1,4-Diaminobutane (Showa), 1,5-Diaminobutane (Aldrich), 
and 1,6-diaminohexane (Aldrich) were used to modify the surface of EVAL membranes. 
General details and experiment set-up of a three-step chemical process involved for surface 
modification of the EVAL membranes have been described previously [19-21]. Briefly, in the 
first step, the EVAL membrane was functionalized by reaction with methacryloyl chloride in 
the presence of triethylamine for 36 h and then was washed thoroughly with acetone [19]. In 
this procedure, the hydroxyl groups of membrane surface were converted to methacrylic 
groups. In the second step, m-chloroperbenzoic acid (mCPBA) reacted directly with the 
double bound of the methacrylic group for 24 h to create the epoxy groups on the EVAL 
membrane [20]. In the third step, the membrane surface epoxy group was coupled to the 
diamines with different methylene groups (1,2-Diaminoethylene, 1,3-Diaminopropane, 
1,4-Diaminobutane, 1,5-Diaminobutane, and 1,6-diaminohexane) at 50°C for 24 h [21]. All 
the reaction processes were carried out under a nitrogen atmosphere. After the surface 
modification process, the samples were sufficiently washed with deionized water for removal 
of adsorbed diamines. In this work, five diamine-immobilized EVAL membranes were 
identified by EVAL-1,2-diaminoethylene (E2), EVAL-1,3-diaminopropane (E3), 
EVAL-1,4-diaminobutane (E4), EVAL-1,5-diaminopentane (E5), and 
EVAL-1,6-diaminohexane (E6) membranes. 
The presence of the covalently immobilized diamines on the EVAL membrane surface was 
analyzed by attenuated total reflection (ATR) / Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. 
Furthermore, analytical characterization of amino groups on the EVAL membrane surface was 
carried out by means of staining the amino groups with the dye Acid Orange II (Sigma) [22]. 
 
2.2. Cell culture 
removed after a predetermined culturing time, and then cells were incubated with 0.1 ml of MTT 
(2 mg/ml in PBS) for 3 h at 37°C. After incubation, the medium was aspirated and the formazan 
reaction products were dissolved by dimethyl sulfoxide in PBS and shaken for 15 min. The optical 
density of the formazan solution was read on an ELISA plate reader (ELx 800, BIO-TEK,) at 570 
nm. All results are expressed as mean ± SEM (standard error of mean) from 4 to 6 independent 
cultures and determinations. Asterisks indicate significant difference from the unmodified EVAL 
membrane (p < 0.05) as determined by one-way ANOVA followed by the Student’s t-test. 
 
3. Results 
3.1. Characterization of the diamine-immobilized EVAL membranes 
 Macroscopically, all of the modified EVAL membranes were transparent and did not show 
any visible differences. Microscopically, these membranes appeared a dense structure under 
scanning electron microscope (not shown here). 
The chemical composition of the prepared membrane surface was analyzed by ATR-FTIR 
spectroscopy. Figure 1 shows the ATR-FTIR spectra of EVAL and five diamine-immobilized 
EVAL membranes. In contrast with spectrum of unmodified EVAL membrane, the peaks a: 1704 
cm-1, b: 1653 cm-1, and c: 1558 cm-1 in E2-E6 membranes could be assigned to the bending 
vibration of carbonyl, primary amine and secondary amine, respectively. Therefore, five diamines 
could be immobilized on the EVAL membranes. Table 1 summarizes the extent of amine 
functionalities and hydrophobic property of prepared membranes, which were determined by 
be delineated. For the cases of E4 and E5 membranes, cell aggregates and separate cells were 
observed simultaneously. These results demonstrated cerebellar granule neurons were able to 
survive and differentiate on all the diamine-immobilized EVAL membranes, but neurons could be 
stimulated by the diamines present at the surface of the EVAL membrane to regulate the cell 
behaviors. 
Within the next two days, the trend to neuron aggregate was more obvious for cells cultured 
on E2 and E3 membranes (Figures 3 (a) and (b)). Although separate neurons were present on E4 
and E5 membranes, they also exhibited the tendency to form smaller multicellular aggregates 
(Figures 3 (c) and (d)). In contrast, on E6 membranes, neurons still appeared a separate 
morphology with intercellular contact only after 3 days in culture (Figure 3 (e)). 
 Figure 4 shows neurons were cultured on the prepared membranes for 5 days. Clearly, 
neuronal cells cultured on modified EVAL membranes with short-chain diamine exhibited the 
same trend. Cells grew into compact neuronal aggregates on E2-E5 membranes and intimate 
cell-cell contact was observed within the aggregate structure. Only 1,6-diaminohexane inhibited 
neuronal aggregation on the modified EVAL membranes. In addition, the apparent difference in 
neurite growth development on E6 and other membranes took place at the fifth day of incubation. 
Figure 4 (e) shows neurons plated on E6 membranes formed neurite networks with the 
defasciculated feature. In contrast, E2-E5 membranes induced the axonal fasciculation and 
exhibited a dense fiber network extending in all directions (Figures 4 (a)-(d)). These formed 
neurites on the surface of E2-E5 membranes tended to grow in the straight path and formed minor 
significant difference of MTT assay on the diamine-immobilized EVAL membranes did not occur 
after 5 days in culture, so the effect of diamine with different carbon-chain length on the 
mitochondrial activity was slower than on the process of neuron aggregation and neurite 
fasciculation. Therefore, the effect of diamine with different carbon-chain length on the neuronal 
activity could be neglected in the short-term culture period. 
 
4. Discussion 
It is well documented that the physical and chemical characteristics of biomaterial surface 
govern cellular responses and ultimately affect the success of tissue engineering applications. 
Massia and Hubbel demonstrated that diamines covalently coupled to glass substrate promoted 
human foreskin fibroblast adhesion and these substrates was mediated primarily by cell surface 
chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans [17]. For neuron cells, amine-containing materials are known to 
play a role in neuronal survival by ionic interactions between specific positively charged domains 
and negatively charged sulfate and carboxylate groups of the cell surface proteoglycans [13-15]. 
However, cell-biomaterial interaction is a very complicated phenomenon and depends in a very 
sensitive manner on the surface structure and composition of biomaterials [10,17], so it is not clear 
what amine-containing structure is really dominant for neuronal culture. Thus, the objective of the 
present study was to determine whether amine bonded to different carbon-chain length have 
different influences on neuronal behavior in vitro. This was achieved by immobilizing different 
chain-length diamines on the EVAL membrane. These prepared membranes appeared similar 
alone [28]. In addition, enhanced neuron aggregation and neurite fasciculation are not attributable 
to differences in the cell viability on diamine-immobilized EVAL membranes, since MTT 
reduction activities on all prepared membranes were similar during the course of the study. 
In summary, neuronal response to the terminal primary amines can be affected by subtle 
changes in carbon-chain length. It is not clear why carbon-chain length can govern their cell 
response now. However, our results showed neurons are more likely to attach firmly to EVAL 
membranes immobilized with long carbon-chain diamine such as 1,6-diaminohexane. It is 
reasonable to assume that neurons form aggregates on EVAL membranes modified with short 
carbon-chain diamines via migration after close intercellular contact can be reached. Acheson et al 
hypothesized that a balance between the interactions of cell-substrate and cell-cell plays a key role 
in determining cell migration [29]. When neurons are seeded on the low neuron-adhesive surface, 
dominance of cell-cell interaction results in cell aggregation since the cell-substrate interaction is 
too low to obstruct cell migration. Therefore, the substrate surface facilitates neuron migration and 
neuron aggregation is enhanced. Similarly, changes in the degree of fasciculation also reflect a 
shift in the balance between these two competing forces. Decrease of neurite-substrate interaction 
results in neurite migration to produce thicker fascicles. Conversely, enhancement of cell-substrate 
interaction makes neuron migration and aggregation more difficult. Hence, when neurons are 
cultured on neuron-adhesive surface, the ability of cell migration is inhibited by the enhanced 
cell-substrate interaction, which prohibits cell aggregation and produces distinct unbundled fibers 
to result in a defasciculated pattern of neurite outgrowth. Thus, the increased presence of 
The use of aggregated cellular transplants has been shown to enhance transplant function in 
comparison to singly transplanted cells [31]. In addition, both fasciculated and defasciculated 
growth are necessary to produce the normal pattern of innervation [32,33]. Therefore, this study 
provides an interesting biomaterial model in which the terminal primary amines with different 
carbon-chain length were immobilized on EVAL membranes.  
 
Acknowledgements 
The authors want to thank the National Science Council of the Republic of China for their 
financial support. 
 
19. La Gatta A, De Rosa A, Laurienzo P, Malinconico M, De Rosa M, Schiraldi C. A novel 
injectable poly (ε-caprolactone)/calcium sulfate system for bone regeneration: Synthesis and 
characterization. Macromol Biosci 2005; 5: 1108–1117. 
20. Kim C, Traylor TG, Perrin CL. MCPBA epoxidation of alkenes: Reinvestigation of correlation 
between rate and ionization potential. J Am Chem Soc 1998; 120: 9513-9516. 
21. Kiyohara S, Sasaki M, Saito K, Sugita K, Sugo T. Amino acid addition to 
epoxy-group-containing polymer chain grafted onto a porous membrane. J Membrane Sci 1996; 
109: 87-92. 
22. Papra A, Hicke HG, Paul D. Synthesis of peptides onto the surface of poly (ethylene 
terephthalate) particle track membranes. J Appl Polym Sci 1999; 74: 1669–1674. 
23. Levi G, Aloisi F, Ciotti MT, Gallo V. Autoradiographic localization and depolarization-induced 
release of acidic amino acids in differentiating cerebellar granule cell cultures. Brain Res 1984; 
290: 77-86. 
24. Mosmann T. Rapid colorimetric assay for cellular growth and survival: application of 
proliferation and cytotoxicity assays. J Immunol Methods 1983; 65: 55-63 
25. Katz MJ, George EB, Gilbert LJ. Axonal elongation as a stochastic walk. Cell Motil 1984; 4: 
351-370. 
26. Schalwig J, Muller G, Eickhoff M, Ambacher O, Stutzmann M. Gas sensitive 
GaN/AlGaN-heterostructures. Sensors Actuators B 2002; 87: 425–430. 
27. Brady S, Colman D, Brophy P. Subcellular organization of the nervous system. Fundamental 
neuroscience 1999: 71-106. 
28. Young TH, Huang JH, Hung SH, Hsu JP. The role of cell density in the survival of cultured 
cerebellar granule neurons. J Biomed Mater Res 2000; 52: 748-753. 
29. Acheson A, Sunshine JL, Rutishauser U. NCAM polysialic acid can regulate both cell-cell and 
cell-substrate Interactions. J Cell Biol 1991; 114: 143-153. 
30. Allen LT, Tosetto M, Miller IS, O'Connor DP, Penney SC, Lynch I, Keenan AK, Pennington SR, 
Dawson KA, Gallagher WM. Surface-induced changes in protein adsorption and implications 
for cellular phenotypic responses to surface interaction. Biomaterials 2006; 27: 3096-3108. 
31. Hrewson CE, Saltzman WM. Nerve growth factor delivery and cell aggregation enhance choline 
acetyltransferase after neural transplantation. Tissue Eng 1996; 2: 183-195. 
32. Dahm, L., and L . Landmesser. 1988 . The regulation of intramuscular nerve branching during 
normal development and following activity blockade . Dev. Biol . 130 :621-644. 
33. Landmesser, L ., L . Dahm, J . Tang, and U. Rutishauser . 1990 . Polysialic acid as a regulator of 
intramuscular nerve branching during embryonic development . Neuron. 4 :655-667. 
 
 
 
  
 Membrane Amine concentration 
(μmole/cm2) 
Contact angle 
(deg) 
  EVAL not detectable 80.0 ± 0.6 
E2 0.60 ± 0.01 68.5 ± 0.9 
E3 0.63 ± 0.04 65.2 ± 1.5 
E4 0.74 ± 0.01 68.6 ± 0.3 
E5 0.35 ±0.03 65.3 ± 1.5 
E6 0.73 ± 0.03 67.7 ± 0.1 
 
Table 1. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    (a)         (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    (c)         (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    (e) 
Figure 2. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    (a)         (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    (c)         (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    (e) 
Figure 4. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    (b) 
Figure 6. 
