 2
中文摘要 
 
關鍵詞：營造廠績效、績效衡量、營運管理、財務績效、管理控制 
 
績效管理對於企業之經營策執行，向來是學界與業界公認至為重要的課題。當企業
組織績效衡量持續為企業管理者與學界共同觀關注課題，組織績效衡量已然成為多面向
構念。此乃源於企業組織績效為一多向度現象、同時包含企業之多元型態與目的。因此，
多數學者轉而投入多面向企業績效衡量模式之研究。 
儘管企業績效衡量之相關研究成果已相當豐碩，然大部分營建企業績效衡量之相關
研究著重於專案層級、針對公司層級績效衡量之相關研究卻相對不足，造成公司層級財
務績效導向之多面向績效衡機制的缺乏。此外，企業績效衡量著重知覺測量(perceptual 
measures)法來評估企業營運與財務績效，此方法雖提供各面向與財務績效之關連性，但
卻無法提供實質量化之關係，例如：當提升公司人力資源績效，可增加多少公司營運淨
利? 同樣地，建構於知覺測量法之企業績效衡量並無法提供量化之財務績效預測功能。 
本研究為解決此一問題，試圖以綜合營造廠為對象，先行發展一全方位多面向營造
廠績效衡量(HMPM)模式後，進行財務績效導向之最佳化多面向營造廠績效衡(OMPM)
機制之建立，再進行 OMPM 雛型系統之建構。換言之，本研究鎖定三個主要課題進行
探討：（1）發展財務績效導向之最佳化多面向營造廠績效衡量(OMPM)機制，以提升
營造廠財務績效；（2）將 OMPM 發展成具備量化與預測財務績效之功能；以及（3）
將 OMPM 模式電腦化成雛型系統。至於研究工具之採行，本研究因考量跨足營建與財
務雙重領域的特性，擬應用諸如：系統化抽樣技術、深度個案研究、分類分析、階層式
迴歸模式、時間序列分析以及機能分析系統技術等方法。 
本研究課題的深入剖析以及系統雛型研發之完成，預期可以提升營造廠營運績效管
理，促成營造廠商在財務績效驅動因素的掌控管理方面有較佳的表現，進而增進其的獲
利能力。 
 
英文摘要 
 
Keywords: Construction firm performance; Performance measurement; Operations management; 
Financial performance; Management control 
 
The importance of performance management to the implementation of the strategies of 
business firms has been a consensus among researchers and practitioners alike. While the 
measurement of the performance of business organizations has continuously been of central 
interest to both managers and academics, performance measurement has been recognized as a 
multidimensional construct. Principally, this is because performance of an organization is a 
multifaceted phenomenon that covers diverse purposes and types of organizations, which 
demands more than a single criterion to characterize it. Consequently, a large number of 
studies have been performed to develop multidimensional performance measurement models. 
However, despite the panoply of methods for measuring organizational performance, 
most published literature in construction addresses the development of performance 
measurement models from a project-level perspective. Relatively little research addresses the 
development of performance measurement models from an organization-level perspective. 
Hence, there appears short of performance measurement model development at the company 
level in construction. Moreover, while performance measurement models have relied on 
perceptual measures of operational and financial performance, the perceptual measures are 
 4
performance measures that fail to provide comprehensive multi-faceted information on 
changes in areas of strategic importance (Johnson and Kaplan, 1987). Specifically, the focus 
of both frameworks is on a set of measures that provide a comprehensive perspective on 
organizational performance, helping identify the right measures by aligning them with the 
vision and strategy of an organization. Such practice provides a method of establishing 
targets and allotting resources for short-term planning, communicating strategies, aligning 
departmental and personal goal to strategies, and supplying feedback for organizational 
learning (Evans, 2004).  
For example, Hardie (1998) summarized the findings of 43 case studies, experiments, 
opinion surveys, and correlational surveys. He examined the effects of quality on business 
performance and developed a theoretical framework, suggesting a causal chain that 
improving quality leads to increased profitability. Norreklit (2000) examined the extent to 
which there is a cause-and-effect relationship among the four areas of measurement 
suggested (the financial, customer, internal-business-process, and learning and growth 
perspectives) in the balanced scorecard, using the analytical approach (Wilson, 1969, 1986). 
Abran and Buglione (2003) addressed the cause-and-effect relationships between 
performance measures of the balanced scorecard’s four perspectives, and thus developed a 
multidimensional performance model capable of providing a consolidated performance value 
for the whole organization level for the information and communication technology field.  
However, despite the panoply of methods for measuring organizational performance, 
most formal published literature in construction addresses the development of performance 
measurement models from a project-level perspective (e.g., Chan and Chan, 2004; Chang, 
2001; Navon, 2005; Russell et al., 1996; Odusami et al., 2003). Relatively little research 
addresses the development of performance measurement models from an organization-level 
perspective. Thus, there appears short of performance measurement model development at 
the company level in construction. Further, performance measurement models have relied 
largely on perceptual measures of operational and financial performance (Ketokivi and 
Schroeder, 2004). These perceptual measures are incapable of providing quantitative 
financial performance measures. For instance, how much will the operating profit be 
increased if the human resource performance is improved, and how much will Return on 
Equity be increased if the customer focused performance is improved? Furthermore, despite 
the volume of performance measurement models have been developed (e.g., Droge et al., 
2004; Evans, 2004; Evans and Jack, 2003; Sulek et al., 2006), there only exists limited 
research to conduct longitudinal analysis of performance measures and financial performance 
measures (e.g., Bernhardt et al., 2000). Hence, there appears to be lack of development of 
performance measurement models capable of providing predicted quantitative financial 
performance measures, using performance perceptual measure metrics in previous time 
periods. 
 
1.2. Objective of this research 
 
Responding to these limitations and restricting the focus to construction contracting 
organizations, we propose the development of an optimal multidimensional performance 
measurement (OMPM) prototype system. To achieve the objective of our research, we have 
developed three research questions (see sections 3.1 to 3.3). Answers to the research 
questions require the development of some important understandings and extensions to the 
state of knowledge about performance measurement models both in the construction and 
operations management domain. We plan to tackle each of the questions in turn. Collectively, 
we will contribute new theory and empirical insight with solid experiment evidence and 
relevancy that helps provide management a clear detailed picture and understanding of what 
 6
digital access lines, and percentage of business access lines) reported and used in the US 
telecommunications industry.  
Subsequent work of Droge et al. (2004) further examined the effects of integration 
practices on time-based performance and on overall firm performance based on regression 
analysis, where integration practices include external strategic design integration and internal 
design-process integration, and overall financial performance measures comprise market 
share, growth in market share, return on assets, return on investment, and return on sales. 
More recently, Sulek et al. (2006) examined correlational relationships between the 
performance metrics of downstream and upstream stages in a multistage service process 
operation. They concluded that the cause selecting control chart, a type of regression-based 
control chart, is an appropriate methodology for analyzing the performance of a downstream 
stage in a multistage service process operation by controlling for the effects of performance 
in the upstream stage.  
While researchers (e.g., Bernhardt et al., 2000; Droge et al., 2004; Sulek et al., 2006; 
Sinclair and Zairi,1995) continue to study the cause-and-effect or correlational relationships 
between measures and business performance, one group of authors (e.g., Evans, 2004; Evans 
and Jack, 2003; Hardie, 1998; Otley, 1999) take a more comprehensive approach to 
performance measures. For example, Hardie (1998) summarized the findings of 43 case 
studies, experiments, opinion surveys, and correlational surveys. He examined the effects of 
quality on business performance and developed a theoretical framework, suggesting a causal 
chain that improving quality leads to increased profitability. Otley (1999) proposed a 
performance management framework based on the study of relationships between objectives, 
strategies and plans targets, rewards, and information feedback loops, using an inductive 
analysis that draws upon previous research on organizational performance and control 
systems. Norreklit (2000) examined the extent to which there is a cause-and-effect 
relationship among the four areas of measurement suggested (the financial, customer, 
internal-business-process, and learning and growth perspectives) in the balanced scorecard, 
using the analytical approach (Wilson, 1969, 1986).  
Subsequent work of Abran and Buglione (2003) addressed the cause-and-effect 
relationships between performance measures of the balanced scorecard’s four perspectives, 
and thus developed a multidimensional performance model capable of providing a 
consolidated performance value for the whole organization level for the information and 
communication technology field. More recently, Evans and Jack (2003) and Evans (2004) 
employed regression analysis to study the measure metrics that organizations use to monitor 
and analyze performance, and evaluate relationships between measurement systems and 
performance. They reported the empirical results, obtained from an on-line survey, on the 
relative emphasis and types of performance measurements and analysis approaches used by 
organizations in manufacturing, service, and not-for-profit (including education and health 
care) sectors.  
This research proposes to develop an optimal multidimensional performance 
measurement prototype system, focusing on the improvement of construction contracting 
firms’ financial performance. There are a number of reasons why there is a need to develop 
such a performance measurement system. First, while the sector (industry type) variable plays 
a significant role in organizational performance measurement studies (e.g., Evans and Jack, 
2003; Otley, 1999; Sulek et al., 2006), relatively little formal research addresses performance 
measurement model development from an organization-level perspective for the construction 
industry, despite considerable research on developing performance measurement models (e.g., 
Bernhardt et al., 2000; Droge et al., 2004; Evans, 2004; Evans and Jack, 2003; Sulek et al., 
2006) have been reported. Most published literature in construction addresses the 
development of performance measurement models from a project-level perspective rather 
 8
performance. Similarly, their model is incapable of providing predicted quantitative financial 
performance by performance measure metrics in previous time periods. 
研究方法、進行步驟及執行進度 
In the preceding section, existing performance measurement models and approaches were 
extensively critiqued. The criticism suggests that (1) there is short of performance 
measurement models for construction contracting firms at the organization level, (2) existing 
performance measurement models fail to provide quantitative financial performance by 
perceptual performance measure metrics, and (3) existing models appear incapable of 
producing projected quantitative financial performance by perceptual performance measure 
metrics in previous time periods. The criticism suggests that much of current basis of 
performance measurement models remains inadequate to its task, and new models have to be 
developed, especially regarding the construction sector. To achieve this task, three research 
questions are posed as the following. 
 
2.1. Research question one: How do we develop an optimal multidimensional 
performance measurement (OMPM) model with the focus of improving financial 
performance for construction contracting organizations?  
 
As illustrated in section 2 of this proposal, the sector (industry type) variable plays an 
important role in organizational performance measurement studies. However, relatively little 
formal research addresses performance measurement model development from an 
organization-level perspective for the construction sector. Most published literature in 
construction addresses the development of performance measurement models from a 
project-level perspective. Hence, there is short of performance measurement models that 
address the construction contracting business from an organization-level perspective. As a 
result, the contribution is to develop an optimal multidimensional performance measurement 
(OMPM) model focusing on improving financial performance of construction contracting 
organizations.  
The methodology to generate this OMPM model is twofold. First, by determining what 
dimensions (perspectives) and their corresponding performance measures a performance 
measurement model should be included, we will develop a holistic multidimensional 
performance measurement (HMPM) model. This will be achieved by using case research 
detailed in (Yin, 2002) to capitalize on the work of existing published studies (e.g., Bernhardt 
et al., 2000; Droge et al., 2004; Hardie, 1998; Kaplan and Norton, 1996; Meyer, 2002; Niven, 
2002; Otley, 1999; Sulek et al., 2006; Sinclair and Zairi,1995; Wilson, 1969, 1986), while 
incorporating critical issues and findings that have not previously been considered 
systematically. Second, using survey research methods with the systematic sampling 
technique detailed in (Foddy, 1993; Fowler, 2001; Leedy, 2001), we will employ the HMPM 
model for the development of survey questionnaires to acquire the necessary data in the 
construction industry. The general contracting firm will be served as the basic unit of analysis. 
And the data collected will be used to examine and, thus, select necessary performance 
dimensions (perspectives) and their corresponding measures from the HMPM model for 
constructing the OMPM model.  
With the survey research methodologies, it is relatively easy to gather desired raw data 
for research analysis. Difficulty comes from further developing the HMPM model, a 
perceptual-based measure, into the OMPM model. At this moment, we expect to handle this 
challenge by combining categorical analysis and hierarchal regression analysis that are 
detailed in (Aiken and West, 1991; Montgomery, 2001). The formulation and components of 
this model will be further shaped using additional guidelines on existing work embodied in 
 10
methodology of time series and regression analysis (e.g., Freund and Wilson, 1998; 
Shumway and Stoffer, 2000), it is comparatively easy to model the relationships developed in 
steps 2 and 3 for the creation of quantitative and predicted quantitative financial performance. 
Challenges come from how to validate the relationships found in steps 2 and 3 and, thus, 
develop them into useful information for providing the OMPM model with the capability of 
generating quantitative and predicted quantitative financial performance. Handling these 
challenges requires some meaningful understanding of design and analysis of surveys and 
experiments associated with statistical generation in research that offers compelling evidence. 
At this moment, we expect to resolve these challenges using existing methods of design and 
analysis of surveys and experiments (e.g., Fowler, 2001; Montgomery, 2001) as a starting 
point. 
 
2.3. Research question three: How do we develop the OMPM model into a computer 
prototype system that implements the full functions of OMPM?  
 
Our proposed prototype system infrastructure is depicted in Figure 1. The infrastructure of 
this prototype system consists of a Holistic Multidimensional Performance Measurement 
(HMPM) mechanism responsible for translating the incoming qualitative (descriptive) data 
into the internal quantitative data, an Optimal Multidimensional Performance Measurement 
(OMPM) mechanism responsible for generating a cross-sectional optimal multidimensional 
performance measurement model by the internal quantitative data, a Financial Ratio 
Computation (FRC) mechanism responsible for computing financial performance ratios, a 
Data Storage responsible for storing processed and raw data, and a Result Reconciliation and 
Fusion (RRF) algorism responsible for restructuring the internal quantitative financial 
performance data and financial performance ratios, and ,thus, integrating the restructured data 
to produce quantitative and predicted quantitative financial performance for construction 
contracting firms. 
The methodology to develop the prototype system with the capability of implementing 
OMPM involves five steps. First, in conjunction with the proposed prototype architecture and 
the OMPM model, we will develop the necessary components of the computer prototype 
system for implementing OMPM by the function analysis system technique (Dell'isola, 1997; 
Mudge, 1989). Second, we will develop the formats, design their details, and construct their 
protocols for each of the necessary components by stochastic approaches, with additional 
guidelines on existing work with regard to performance system (e.g., Chen et al., 2005; e.g., 
Evans, 2004; Evans and Jack, 2003; Hardie, 1998; Otley, 1999). Third, we will build the 
prototype system by database languages, such as Microsoft Assess or Microsoft Visual 
FoxPro. Fourth, we will then complete debugging and system test by the collected sample 
data. Finally, we will collect new data to validate the prototype system. As a result, the 
contribution is the development of the prototype system capable of implementing full 
functions of the OMPM model and associated knowledge about the prototype’ designing and 
constructing process in this research.  
Nonetheless, because this prototype system involves the integration of two complex 
mechanisms (OMPM and FRC) into the RRF algorism, development of this system is 
somewhat harder than that of most integration systems performed in construction research 
that only deal with qualitative information or quantitative information. To handle this 
challenge, we plan on making use as much as possible of existing techniques in this area, 
starting from the existing work in research (e.g., Abran and Buglione, 2003; Navon, 2005; 
Otley, 1999).  
 
 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Research Flow Chart 
 
Literature review 
HMPM model 
building 
Develop the necessary 
components of the prototype 
system 
Develop the system’s formats, 
design their details, and 
construct their protocols 
Prepare 
Report 
Integrate and 
program the 
system 
Complete 
debugging 
and system 
test
Conclusion and 
Recommendation
Complete 
the system 
acceptance 
test
Design 
experiments & 
collect data 
Run the experiments and 
determine the level of the 
models’ detail 
OMPM Model 
building 
Develop 
nexus 
Model testing 
and validation 
Collect & 
Compute data 
Examine relationships 
between quantitative 
and qualitative data  
 14
預期及已完成之工作項目及成果 
 
The proposed project duration is two years. In the first year, there are two tasks for this 
research. The first task is devoted to developing a holistic multidimensional performance 
measurement model and, thus, using this HMPM model to design survey questionnaires for 
acquiring the necessary data in the construction industry. Based on the HMPM model and the 
collected data, we then develop an optimal multidimensional performance measurement 
(OMPM) model with the focus of financial performance. The second task in the first year is 
devoted to collecting data of financial statements and computing numerical figures of 
financial performance. We begin to investigate what relationships exist between perceptual 
financial performance measures and financial performance ratios of financial statements and 
take these relationships to develop a nexus between perceptual measures and numerical 
ratios. 
During the second year, our first task is to investigate what relationships exist between 
financial performance ratios in current and previous time periods, which in response provide 
the basis for developing a forecasting ability of the OMPM model. Together with the findings 
of the second task in the first year, we will further develop the OMPM model to have the 
ability of generating quantitative and predicted quantitative financial performance by the 
corresponding perceptual performance measure metrics in current and previous time periods. 
Consequently, the primary contribution is to provide an optimal multidimensional 
performance measurement model capable of generating quantitative and predicted 
quantitative figures of financial performance by corresponding perceptual performance 
measure metrics in current and previous time periods. 
Our second task in the second year will be focusing on building the OMPM prototype 
system. Collectively, we will first develop the necessary components of the computer 
prototype system in conjunction with the proposed prototype architecture and the OMPM 
model. Second, we will develop the formats, design their details, and construct their protocols 
for each of the necessary components by stochastic approaches. Third, we will build the 
prototype system by database languages. Fourth, we will debug and test the system by the 
collected sample data. Finally, we will collect new data to validate the prototype system. As a 
result, the major contribution is the development of the prototype system capable of 
implementing full functions of the OMPM model. In addition, we expect the associated 
knowledge that will be generated in the process of developing this prototype system (e.g., 
designing formats and their protocols) will be helpful in course work on research methods, as 
well as in offering research training to graduate students.  
 
研究結果討論 
 
In the first year, we first developed a holistic multidimensional performance measurement 
model (HMPM) and then used this HMPM model to design survey questionnaires for 
acquiring the necessary data in the construction industry. We are currently employing the 
data collected from the survey to run experiments, attempting to determine the level of our 
model’s details. Meanwhile, the development of an optimal multidimensional performance 
measurement (OMPM) model with the focus of financial performance is also under way. 
The collection of financial statements and computing numerical figures of financial 
performance have been completed. The financial data collection focused on the publicly 
owned construction companies listed on the construction sector of the Taiwan Stock 
Exchange, since the balance sheets of the private companies were difficult to obtain. For each 
 16
performance as the values of certain perceptual performance measures alter. Optimal 
financial performance of contracting firms will be therefore better achieved. 
 
 18
Bernhardt, K.L., Donthu, N., and Kennett, P. A. (2000). "Longitudinal Analysis of 
Satisfaction and Profitability." Journal of Business Research, 47 (2), pp. 161–171. 
Borucki, C.C., and Burke, M.J. (1999). "An examination of service-related antecedents to 
retail store performance." Journal of Organizational Behavior, 20, pp. 943–962. 
Brandt, D.R. (2000). "Linking measures of customer satisfaction, value, and loyalty to market 
and financial performance: basic methods and key considerations." Proceedings of the 
ASQ’s 54th Annual Quality Congress, pp. 113–122. 
Chakravarthy, B.S. (1986). "Measuring strategic performance." Strategic Management 
Journal, 7, pp. 437–458. 
Chan, A.P.C., and Chan, D.W.M. (2004). "Developing a benchmark model for project 
construction time performance in Hong Kong." Building and Environment, 39 (3), pp. 
339–349. 
Chang, A.S.T. (2001). "Defining cost/schedule performance indices and their ranges for 
design projects." Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 17 (2), pp. 
122–130. 
Chang, A.S., and Ibbs, C.W. (1998). "Development of consultant performance measures for 
design projects." Project Management Journal, 29 (2), 39–54. 
Chang, A.S., and Ibbs, C.W. (1999). "Designing levels for A/E consultant performance 
measures." Project Management Journal, 30 (4), 42–54. 
Chen, I.J., Paulraj, A., and Lado, A.A. (2004). "Strategic purchasing, supply management, 
and firm performance." Journal of Operations Management, 22 (2), pp. 505–523. 
Chen, W.T., Chen, H.L., Chang, P.Y., and Wang, T.J. (2005). "A Performance Evaluation 
Model for Construction Value Engineering Study." 1st International Conference on 
Construction Engineering and Management (ICCEM), Seoul, Korea, Oct. 16-19, pp. 
347-352. 
Cheng, E.W.L., and Li, H. (2006). "Job performance evaluation for construction companies: 
An analytic network process approach." Journal of Construction Engineering and 
Management, 132 (8), pp. 827–835. 
Cheung, S.O., Suen, H.C.H., and Cheung, K.K.W. (2004). "PPMS: a Web-based construction 
Project Performance Monitoring System." Automation in Construction, 13 (3), pp. 
361–376. 
Cheung, S.O., Wong, P.S.P., Fung, A.S.Y., and Coffey, W.V. (2006). "Predicting project 
performance through neural networks." International Journal of Project Management, 24 
(3), pp. 207–215. 
Culp, G., and Smith, A. (2001). "Understanding psychological type to improve project team 
performance." Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 17 (1), pp. 24–33. 
Cox, R.F., Issa, R.R.A., and Ahrens, D. (2003). "Management's perception of key 
performance indicators for construction." Journal of Construction Engineering and 
Management, 129 (1), pp. 142–151. 
Dainty, A.R.J., Cheng. M.I., and Moore, D.R. (2005). "Competency-based model for 
predicting construction project managers' performance." Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, 21 (1), pp. 2–9. 
Danaher, P.J., and Rust, R.T. (1996). "Indirect financial benefits from service quality." 
 20
Kaplan, R.S., and Norton, D.P. (1992). "The balanced scorecard measures that drive 
performance." Harvard Business Review, January/February, pp. 71–79. 
Kaplan, R.S., and Norton, D.P. (1996). The Balanced Scorecard: Translating Strategy into 
Action, Harvard Business School Press, Boston, MA, USA. 
Kathuria, R. (2000). "Competitive priorities and managerial performance: a taxonomy of 
small manufacturers." Journal of Operations Management, 18 (6), pp. 627–641. 
Ketokivi, M. A., and Schroeder, R.G. (2004). "Perceptual measures of performance: fact or 
fiction?" Journal of Operations Management, 22 (3), pp. 247–264. 
Lam, M. (2004). "Neural network techniques for financial performance prediction: 
integrating fundamental and technical analysis." Decision Support Systems, 37, pp. 
567–581. 
Ling, F.Y.Y. (2004). "How project managers can better control the performance of 
design-build projects." International Journal of Project Management, 22 (6), pp. 
477–488. 
Ling, F.Y.Y., Chan, S.L., Chong, E., and Ee, L.P. (2004). "Predicting performance of 
design-build and design-bid-build projects." Journal of Construction Engineering and 
Management, 130 (1), pp. 75–83. 
Lee, S.H., Thomas, S.R., and Tucker, RL (2004). "Effective practice utilization using 
performance prediction software." Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 
130 (4), pp. 576–585. 
Lewin, A.Y., and Minton, J.W. (1986). "Determining organizational effectiveness: Another 
look, and an agenda for research." Management Science, 32, pp. 514–553. 
Maskell, B.H. (1991). "Performance measurement for world class manufacturing." 
Productivity Press, Portland, OR, USA. 
Menches, C.L., and Hanna, A.S. (2006). "Quantitative measurement of successful 
performance from the project manager's perspective." Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, 132 (12), pp. 1284–1293. 
Meyer, M.W. (2002). Rethinking Performance Measurement: Beyond the Balanced Scorecard, 
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, U.K. 
Miller, J.G., and Roth, A.V. (1994). "A taxonomy of manufacturing strategies." Management 
Science, 40 (3), pp. 285–304. 
Montgomery, D. C. (2001). Design and Analysis of Experiments, 5th Ed., John Wiley & Sons, 
New York, USA. 
Mudge, A. (1989). Value Engineering: A Systematic Approach, Pittsburgh, Pa.:J. Pohl 
Associates.  
Navon, R. (2005). "Automated project performance control of construction projects." 
Automation in Construction, 14 (4), pp. 467–476. 
Navon, R. (2007). "Research in automated measurement of project performance indicators." 
Automation in Construction, 16 (2), pp. 176–188. 
Nepal, M.P, Park, M., and Son, B. (2006). "Effects of schedule pressure on construction 
performance." Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 132 (2), pp. 
182–188. 
 22
service operations: An application of cause selecting control charts." Journal of 
Operations Management, 24 (5), pp. 711–727. 
Thamhain, H.J. (2004). "Linkages of project environment to performance: lessons for team 
leadership." International Journal of Project Management, 22 (7), pp. 533–544. 
Thomas, H.R., Horman, M.J., Souza, U.E.L.D., and Zav ski, I. (2002). "Reducing variability 
to improve performance as a lean construction principle." Journal of Construciton 
Engineering and Management, 128 (2), pp. 144–154. 
Tornow, W.W., and Wiley, J.W. (1991). "Service quality and management practices: a look at 
employee attitudes, customer satisfaction, and bottom-line consequences." Human 
Resource Planning, 14 (2), pp. 105–115. 
Wagner, H.M. (1984). "Profit wonders, investment blunders." Harvard Business Review, 
September/October, pp. 121–135. 
Wang, Y.J. (2002). "Liquidity management, operating performance, and corporate value: 
evidence from Japan and Taiwan."  Journal of Multinational Financial Management, 12 
(2), pp. 159–169. 
Wild, J.J, Subramanyam, K.R., and Halsey, R.F. (2004). Fundamentals of financial statement 
analysis, 1st Ed., MacGraw-Hill, New York. 
Wilson, S. (1969). Thinking with Concepts. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, U.K. 
Wilson, S. (1986). What Philosophy Can Do. Macmillan, Hong Kong. 
Yin, R.K. (2002). Case Study Research: Design and Methods, 3rd ed. Newbury Park, Sage 
Publications, CA. 
Zhu, J. (2000). "Multi-factor performance measure model with an application to Fortune 500 
companies." European Journal of Operational Research, 123 (1), pp. 105–124. 
 
 2
The structural models of sales forecasting attempt to describe the causal relationship between an outcome 
variable and a number of explanatory variables [12]. These models allow the decision maker to investigate how 
changes in the explanatory variables influence the outcome variables. Smith et al. [19] developed a two-stage 
forecasting methodology for estimating the weekly sales of a retail chain in response to promotional variables 
such as price, promotional sales, promotional frequency, and inventory ratio. Their model is based on integrated 
least squares procedure that employs regression analysis in the first stage to compute the coefficients of 
promotional variables. In conjunction with discounted least squares smoothing procedure in second stage, the 
model updates parameters in response to changing market conditions. Luxhoj et al. [12] developed a hybrid 
econometric-neural network model for monthly sales forecasting of an audio/video manufacturing company. 
Their model is built on the sequential integration of a seasonally adjusted time series component, an 
econometric model with lagged explanatory variables for certain sales markets, and an artificial neural network 
(ANN) component to capture non-linear behavior, where the output from one stage becomes part of the input to 
the next stage. They concluded that averaging the sales forecasts from each of the three sub-models of the 
hybrid econometric-neural network model significantly reduces forecasting errors.  
Building from the work of Luxhoj et al. [12], Kuo et al. [21] introduce a sales forecasting system based on a 
fuzzy neural network (FNN) that is capable of learning the fuzzy IF-THEN rules obtained from the marketing 
experts regarding promotions and hence, eliminates the unimportant weights of variables. They compared the 
predictive ability of the autoregressive moving average models, ANN models and FNN models and concluded 
that under a sales promotion circumstance, the FNN models produce the best forecasting results. Recently, Chiu 
and Shyu [20] present a multivariate time series model, building on the vector autoregression (VAR) model and 
the Litterman Bayesian vector autoregression (LBVAR), for quarterly sales forecasting of portable computers. 
They experimented with nine candidate models all with three exogenous variables, including national 
consumption expenditure, the exchange rate (to US dollars), and desktop computer sales, and then selected the 
one with the best fits. More recently, Pantelidaki and Bunn [24] propose a multifunctional sales response model 
with the diagnostic aid of ANN models for weekly sales forecasting. They experimented with five candidate 
response models in response to sales price, advertising, promotion, and competitors’ price variables, and used 
neural network modeling as a re-specification tool for the response models to improve the forecasting 
performance. They concluded that the combined parametric models and ANN models with sales price, 
advertising, promotion, and competitor price variables appear to be useful models for sales forecasting.  
However, despite the refinements to these structural models, only few exogenous variables, such as national 
consumption expenditure, consumer price index, long-term interest rates, and sales volume of alternative goods, 
have been considered. This directly assumes that other exogenous variables relative to the business cycle, such 
as export by customs, manufacturers’ new orders, and wholesale price index, insignificantly contribute to the 
accuracy of forecasting sales volumes of firms. Such a direct assumption without justification might be 
questionable with regard to cyclical industries whose sales and profits are sensitive to changes in the level of 
economic activity. Further, a review of finance literature suggests that while the financial position of a firm 
measures the competitiveness of the firm, the firm’s competitiveness assures its survival and expansion in the 
market (e.g., Bodie et al., [22]; Wild, [23]). Consequently, there appears to be a link between sales and internal 
financial variables such as asset turnover and profit margin that measure the financial performance. (For 
example, a low profit margin and high asset turnover indicates the firm adopts a low-price strategy to achieve 
high sales.) These internal financial variables do not appear to be considered in the refinements.  
 
3. Research question and methodology 
 
The above literature review suggests that while there appears to be a link between sales and internal financial 
and economic variables, most methods of assessment and comparison address how to refine sales forecasting 
algorithms (e.g. Luxhoj et al., [12]; Pantelidaki and Bunn, [24]), and that relatively little research has been 
conducted on developing a modeling procedure for sales forecasts built on internal financial and economic 
variables. Thus, a specific research question was posed: How can a sales response (SR) model be developed 
using internal financial and economic variables?  
Before this question can be answered, an assessment of which variables should be considered for sales model 
building in order to provide firms with reliable sales forecasts is required. Development of the solution 
methodology, a two-stage mathematical modeling procedure, is based on combined time series and regression 
approaches, as such a combination has been suggested as an effective and practical means to improve sales 
forecasting [19]. Due to space limitations, the modeling procedure is only briefly described as the following: 
First, following hypothesis tests that introduce useful relationships between sales and internal financial and 
economic variables, multivariate regression analysis is employed for initial model building. This includes 
determining an optimum subset of variables and estimating their corresponding coefficients by stepwise 
regression analysis, detecting outliers using the test of studentized residuals before the optimum subset of 
variables is obtained, and conducting the Ramsey’s RESET, Anderson-Darling and White tests to test linearity, 
 4
The principle purpose of these hypothesis tests was to examine whether or not firm sales in current season 
can be signaled by the financial and/or macroeconomic variables in the preceding season. The estimation data 
over a 6-year period from 1997 Q1 to 2003 Q2 were used to test the hypotheses. Because of space limitation, 
Table 3 only lists the partial results of Spearman’s correlation tests of hypotheses 1 and 2, where the use of 
Spearman’s correlation test is justified by the fact that the sales data is not a normal distribution. Correlation is 
judged to be significant when the correlation value is larger than the threshold value of 0.2. As seen in the table, 
the Spearman correlation coefficients of CR2(t-1) (with the associated p-value <0.01), supporting hypothesis 1 
that a firm’s sales in current season is signaled by certain financial variables in the preceding season. In 
summary, a total of 20 financial variables at time t-1 are significantly correlated to firm sales at time t. These 
variables include cash conversion cycle, return on assets, return on common stockholders' equity, return on 
long-term debt and equity, equity growth rate, invested capital turnover, equity turnover, capital intensity, etc. 
 
Table 3 – Descriptive statistics and correlation tests for hypotheses 1 and 2 
Variable Mean Standard 
Deviation 
Spearman 
correlation with 
CR1t 
CR2(t-1) 4.62 168.66 0.7730 
CR3(t-1) 1.06 0.70 0.1427 
CR4(t-1) 2.21 31.59 0.1318 
CR5(t-1) 1.66 8.39 0.1904 
CR35(t-1) 1.06 0.11 0.3235 
CR36(t-1) 1.07 0.13 0.2657 
CR49(t-1) 1.34 0.72 0.2553 
 
Likewise, as seen in the table, the Spearman correlation coefficients of CR35(t-1) ,CR36(t-1) , CR49(t-1) are 0.3235, 
0.2657, 0.2553 and respectively, where the corresponding associated p-values are all <0.01. This result supports 
hypothesis 2, suggesting that a firm’s sales in current season is signaled by certain economic variables in the 
preceding season. In summary, a total of 7 economic variables that include manufacturers' new orders, export by 
customs, average monthly working hours of manufacturing, index of stock price, gross domestic product, 
national consumption expenditure, and electronic sector stock index at time t-1 are significantly correlated to 
firm sales at time t.  
 
4.2. Modeling Building 
 
As indicated by the test results of hypotheses 1 and 2, there is a significant correlation between CR1t and each 
of those 20 financial variables and 7 economic variables. For the purpose of model building, the significant 
financial and economic variables were further transformed by the following formula: 
CR CRjt
s
jt
j t
n



, 1
                               (1) 
where n is the sample size of the CRj variable. CR t
s
1  is the response variable (firm sales), and CRj t
s
( )1 , where 
j= 1, 6, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37, 39, 41, 46, 48, and 49 are 
explanatory variables. The data created with equation (1) are inputs of the two-stage mathematical modeling 
procedure, where Y(t) = CR t
s
1 , and Xj(t-1)  = CRj t
s
( )4 . 
The mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) was used to assess the predictive performance of SR models. 
The data used for prediction assessment purposes were from 2003 Q2 to 2006 Q4. The MAPE is calculated as 
 MAPE  1n y y yt t t                     (2) 
where yt  is the actual value of the tth sales in the prediction sample, yt  is the predicted value for that sales, 
and n is the number of time periods of prediction data. 
Assessment of the models can be divided into three phases based on the model building process. The first 
phase is the forecasting result of the SR model after passing the normality, heteroscedasticity, and model 
specification error tests, denoted as SR (a). The second phase is the forecasting result of the SR (a) model 
subsequent to the remedial measure for the effect of seasonal cycles, denoted as SR (b). The last phase is the 
forecasting result of the SR (a) model subsequent to the remedial measures for the combined effects of seasonal 
cycles and multicollinearity, denoted as SR (c). 
Table 4 shows the analysis of the prediction data set for the SR model of the ASE firm. As seen in the table, 
 6
Pattern Matching Logic
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Ordinal Quarter (2003Q2 to 2006Q4)
Sa
le
s (
N
T$
 B
ill
io
n)
 
Actual Sales 
Predicted Sales
 
Fig. 1 – Comparison between actual sales and predicted sales created with SR (b)  for ASE 
 
For the purpose of comparison, this paper further transformed the firms’ MAPE values to log scale, which 
were 0.0060 and 0.0108 for ASE and SPIL, respectively. The transformed results outperform Chiu and Shyu’s 
model, with a MAPE value of 0.0748. This suggests that the proposed methodology for developing sales 
response models for technological product sales forecasting is a viable alternative method. 
 
Pattern Matching Logic
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Ordinal Quarter (2003Q2 to 2006Q4)
Sa
le
s (
N
T$
 B
ill
io
n)
 
Actual Sales 
Predicted Sales
 
Fig. 2 – Comparison between actual sales and predicted sales created with SR (b)  for SPIL 
 
5. Conclusions 
 
This paper presents a modeling method that provides a step by step approach for high-tech firm sales 
forecasting. Using the Spearman’s correlation tests, a cross-sectional longitudinal analysis of the relationships 
between sales and financial and economic variables was conducted. The results of the hypothesis tests suggest 
that significant correlations exist between the change ratios of firm sales in current time periods and those of 
certain financial and economic variables in the previous time periods. The results suggest that while certain 
financial and macroeconomic variables are increased and/or decreased in current season, a high-tech firm may 
improve its firm sales the following season. 
While a large volume of previous research has reported that economic data are useful predictors for sales 
forecasts (e.g., Luxhoj et al., [12]; Chiu and Shyu, [20]), little research has reported that a firm’s internal 
financial data could be useful sources for predicting sales. Through using the methodology presented in this 
paper, the analysis result not only justifies the exclusion of certain economic variables from the fitted models of 
sales forecasting, but shows that internal financial variables could be significant predictors for individual 
technological firms. Adding to Chiu and Shyu’s [20] critique of the “demand side” based sales forecasting 
models, the paper contributes a methodology capable of accounting for a richer source of information for 
predicting sales. Nonetheless, future research is still needed to generalize and thus widen the area of 
applicability of this proposed methodology. 
 
5. References 
 
[1] Cox, J.E., "An Assessment of Books Relevant to Forecasting in Marketing." International Journal of 
Forecasting, Vol. 3, pp. 515-527 (1987). 
 
 8
[21] Kuo, R.J., Wu, P., and Wang, C.P., "An Intelligent Sales Forecasting System through Integration of 
Artificial n\Neural Networks and Fuzzy Neural Networks with Fuzzy Weight Elimination." Neural Network, Vol. 
15, No. 7, pp. 909-925 (2002). 
 
[22] Bodie, Z., Kane, A., and Marcus, A.J., Investments. McGraw-Hill Education, New York (2002). 
 
[23] Wild, J.J., Financial Accounting. Irwin McGraw-Hill, Boston Massachusetts (2003). 
 
[24] Pantelidaki, S. and Bunn, D.W., "Development of a Multifunctional Sales Response Model with the 
Diagnostic Aid of Artificial Neural Network." International Journal of Forecasting, Vol. 24, pp. 505-521 
(2005). 
 
[25] Lorek, K.S. and Willinger, G.L., "A Multivariate Time-Series Prediction Model for Cash-Flow Data." The 
Accounting Review, Vol. 71, No. 1, pp. 81-102 (1996). 
 
Hong Long Chen, 
“Model for Predicting Financial Performance of 
Development and Construction Corporations”, 
Journal of Construction Engineering and 
Management, to appear in December 2009. 
 
 
 
 
Ref.:  Ms. No. COENG-173R2 
Model for Predicting Financial Performance of Development and Construction Corporations 
Hong Long Chen, Ph.D. 
 
Dear Professor Chen, 
 
Your Technical Paper, listed above, has been accepted for publication in ASCE's Journal of 
Construction Engineering and Management. You will find the editor's comments below. 
 
While there are no revisions by the reviewers, we need your help in providing the following:  
 
1) Please double-check the equations in your text, some appear to be bold and overlapping. 
 
Please upload this additional information by going to http://jrncoeng.edmgr.com/ and editing 
your submission. Once received, your manuscript will be forwarded to a production editor 
who will prepare it for publication. 
 
In addition, our editors have requested that authors of accepted manuscripts serve as 
reviewers for Journal of Construction Engineering and Management.  If you are willing to 
serve as a reviewer, please reply to this email and let me know. 
 
Thank you for submitting your work to ASCE's Journal of Construction Engineering and 
Management. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Jennifer Parresol 
Editorial Coordinator 
 
附件三 
Model for Predicting Financial Performance of Development and 
Construction Corporations 
 
Abstract 
 
Performance forecasting is central to aligning an organization’s operations with its strategic 
direction. Despite the panoply of approaches to performance predictions, relatively few 
published studies address model development of financial performance predictions for the 
construction industry. By analyzing the preceding relationship between financial and 
economic variables and financial performance, this paper proposes an innovative approach to 
predict firm financial performance. First, hypothesis tests using data for 42 development and 
construction corporations listed in the construction sector of the Taiwan Stock Exchange 
between 1997 Q1 and 2006 Q4 uncover useful relationships between financial performance 
and financial and economic variables. Second, based on these relationships, a three-stage 
mathematical modeling procedure is used for cross-sectional model estimation, which is 
subsequently refined to create firm-specific financial performance forecasting models for four 
sample firms. The out-of-sample forecasting accuracy is evaluated using mean absolute 
percentage error (MAPE). The results show that the cross-sectional model explains 78.9% of 
the variation in the cross-sectional performance data, and the MAPE values in the forecasting 
models range from 9.54% to 19.69%. 
CE Database subject headings: Financial management; Performance evaluation; 
Forecasting; Models; Time series analysis 
 
 3
Although financial and economic measures are lagging indicators of performance 
(Kagioglou et al. 2001), most published studies base their performance evaluation models on 
the contemporary relationship between these lagging indicators and firm financial 
performance (e.g., Elyamany et al. 2007; Kangari et al. 1992; Severson et al. 1994). These 
models are thus best used for assessing current firm financial performance. Even though 
some existing studies (e.g., Russell and Jaselskis 1992; Russell and Zhai 1996) investigate the 
preceding relationship between lagging indicators and firm financial performance, these 
studies mainly concentrate on predicting failures in financial performance. Consequently, a 
lack of performance forecasting models based on historic financial and economic measures 
seems to exist. 
This study proceeds as follows. First, the relevant literature on performance is briefly 
reviewed. Next, “Research Methodology” describes the research question and methodology 
of this study, followed by “Data and Statistical Tests,” which describes the data and statistical 
tests. “Model Development” depicts the model building and validation of the firm financial 
performance forecasting. Finally, the research results are presented and discussed in 
“Discussion”; the research implications are discussed in the “Research Benefits” and 
“Conclusion” sections. 
 
Background 
 
The idea of performance relates to how successfully an organization attains its objectives or 
how effectively it implements an appropriate strategy (Otley 1999). Though there is evidence 
in organizational-performance studies (Evans and Jack 2003; Otley 1999; Sulek et al. 2006) 
that a firm's industry plays a significant role, performance measurement in the construction 
industry has predominantly focused on project-level performance (e.g., Chang 2001; Cheung 
et al. 2006; Dai and Wells 2004; Navon 2005 and 2007; Odusami et al. 2003; Parker and 
 5
As mentioned, Elyamany et al. (2007) developed a performance-grade model that 
provides management with a measure of the company’s performance relative to other 
companies in the industry. Kagioglou et al. (2001) and other formal published studies also 
describe performance evaluation models based on contemporary relationships between firm 
financial performance and financial and economic measures (e.g., Elyamany et al. 2007; 
Kangari 1988; Kangari et al. 1992; Severson et al. 1994). As a result, these models are of 
large use in evaluating current firm financial performance but of little use in assessing future 
firm financial performance. Despite a few existing studies (e.g., Russell and Jaselskis 1992; 
Russell and Zhai 1996) explore the preceding relationship between financial and economic 
measures and firm financial performance, these studies primarily focus on predicting the 
probability of financial performance failure. As a result, there appears to be a lack of models 
that predict firm financial performance by evaluating financial and economic metrics from 
previous time periods. 
 
Research Methodology 
 
Research performed by Dua and Smith (1995), Banerji et al. (2006), and Phua (2006) 
suggests that the construction market represents such a large share of the economy, it can 
therefore be embedded into an economic model. Furthermore, a firm's financial position 
indicates its competitiveness, and the firm’s competitiveness ensures its future survival and 
expansion in the market (Bodie et al. 2002; Russell and Zhai, 1996; Wild et al. 2004). This 
suggests that financial variables do signal future performance. 
Based on these findings, the question is: How can a firm's performance forecasting 
model be developed based on economic and financial variables in the construction industry? 
As the general goal of a profit-oriented business is to maximize the wealth of its shareholders, 
and investors and creditors generally use earnings as a summary measure of firm 
 7
parameter estimates and make the resulting model less useful (Littell and Freund 2000). 
Studentized residuals are used for detecting outliers. 
In the second stage, the forward stepwise regression procedure is further utilized to 
refine the cross-sectional model built in stage 1 into firm-specific performance candidate 
models. In this stage,    is based on the data of an individual firm in question. Prior to 
performing the forward stepwise regression, studentized residuals are used to detect outliers 
in the data of the individual firm in question. 
Abnormality, heteroskedasticity, and model specification error often create biased 
parameter and/or covariance matrix estimates. The Anderson-Darling (AD) test (Stephens 
1974), the White test (White 1980), and the graphical test (Littell and Freund 2000) that plots 
the residuals versus predicted values are used to detect abnormality, heteroskedasticity, and 
model specification error, respectively. These tests help select the optimal firm-specific 
performance model. 
The third stage, model restructuring for remedial measures of seasonal cycles and 
multicollinearity, ensures that the parameter estimates are efficient. Because the effects of 
seasonal cycles require tests of a higher-order autoregressive process, the study incorporates 
the generalized Durbin-Watson statistic (Vinod 1973) to detect the effects of seasonal cycles 
(or autocorrelated errors). In situations where autocorrelation is present, Yule-Walker 
estimates are performed to estimate the set of autoregressive parameters (Shumway and 
Stoffer 2000). 
Though variable selection, a very popular method to combat multicollinearity (Freund 
and Wilson 1998), is part of this modeling procedure, there is a need to test if the 
multicollinearity still exists. The eigenvalues, the variance of principal component regression 
analysis, determine which variables may be involved in multicollinearity. When 
 9
The sample firm shown is Goldsun Development & Construction Corporation (GDC), one of 
the largest development and construction companies in Taiwan. 
 
Statistical Tests and Results 
 
The hypothesis that financial and economic variables can affect a firm's future financial 
performance needs to be verified statistically. Based on previous research (e.g., Dua and 
Smith, 1995; Phua 2006; Lam 2004; Russell and Zhai 1996), this study selected 11 economic 
factors and 24 financial variables for the purpose of verification, shown in Table 2. The 
financial variables were further classified into three major categories, each of which measures 
a particular aspect of a company’s financial condition or operating results. These categories 
include short-term liquidity and efficiency (composed of 12 variables that measure the ability 
to meet short-term obligations and to efficiently generate revenues), capital structure and 
solvency (composed of seven variables that measure the ability to generate future revenues 
and to meet long-term obligations) and profitability and market prospects (composed of five 
variables that measure the ability to provide financial rewards to attract and retain financing 
and to create positive market expectations). 
Following the collection of the 42 sample firms’ balance sheets and income statements, 
the 24 financial variables were calculated. Because most economic and financial statement 
variables are expressed in different terms and units of measurement than ROE, there is a need 
for a way to compare the variables with financial performance in a meaningful way. Because 
the basic rationale of this study is that changes in financial performance are correlated with 
the economic variables and financial variables, a change-ratio method is therefore used as the 
measurement. In addition, as the construction industry is a cyclical industry, this study 
therefore defines the change ratio for the variable in question as the ratio of the value of the 
variable in the current period to that of the variable in the preceding time period, expressed as 
CR V Vjt jt j t c ( ) . 
 11
Hypothesis 4: Changes in the preceding quarter's ratios ( CRj t( )4  where j = 26, 
27,…,36) pertaining to the economy can signal the firms' financial performance in the 
current quarter, CR t1 . 
 
Estimation data over a seven-year period from 1997 Q1 to 2003 Q4 were used to test the 
hypotheses. Table 3 lists the results of Pearson’s correlation tests of hypotheses 1, 2, 3, and 4. 
Correlation is significant when the probability value is smaller than 0.05. As can be seen in 
Table 3, the Pearson correlation coefficients of CR4(t-4), CR6(t-4), CR8(t-4) ,CR9(t-4) ,CR12(t-4) ,and 
CR13(t-4) pertaining to short-term liquidity and efficiency are 0.1001, -0.0802, -0.0800, 
-0.0800, 0.1453, and 0.1011, respectively, where the corresponding associated p-values are 
0.0067, 0.0294, 0.0210, 0.0214, <0.0001, and 0.0035. This result supports hypothesis 1, 
suggesting that a firm’s current short-term liquidity and efficiency signals its performance in 
the next corresponding season. Specifically, significant positive correlations between CR4(t-4) 
and CR1t, CR12(t-4) and CR1t, and CR13(t-4) and CR1t imply that a firm’s inventory turnover, 
sales to short-term liabilities, and cost of good sold to sales ratios at time t-4 positively 
predict the firm's financial performance. In contrast, significant negative correlations between 
CR6(t-4) and CR1t, CR8(t-4) and CR1t, and CR9(t-4) and CR1t indicate that the lower a firm’s days’ 
sales in inventory, approximate conversion period, and cash conversion cycle are in time t-4, 
the better the firm's performance will be at time t. 
As can be seen from Table 3, significant negative correlations exist between CR14(t-4) and 
CR1t, and CR16(t-4) and CR1t, where the Pearson correlation coefficients are -0.1346 and 
-0.1562, respectively, and the corresponding associated p-values are 0.0001 and <.0001. This 
suggests that the smaller a firm’s total debt to equity ratio and long-term debt to equity ratio 
become for time t-4, the better the firm's performance will be at time t. This result also 
supports hypothesis 2 that a firm’s current capital structure and solvency signals its 
performance in the next corresponding season. Similar conclusions are also drawn for 
 13
 sssssjt jnjkjj crcrcrcrCR ,,,,, 21  ,            
(3) 
where 
nkcrcr
k
j
jk
s
jk  ,,2 ,1 ,
1,
 ,            
(4) 
where stCR1  is the response variable (firm financial performance), and
s
jtCR , where j = 4, 6, 8, 
9, 12, 13, 14, 16, 22, 29, 33, and 34, are explanatory variables. The data created with equation 
(3) are inputs of equation (1), where y(t) = stCR1 , and xj(t-a) = xj(t-4) = 
s
tjCR )4(  . 
Before developing the cross-sectional performance model via the forward stepwise 
regression, studentized residuals were used for detecting outliers. Assessment of the 
statistical significance of the outliers is given by the student’s t distribution, and values in 
excess of 2.5 may be problematic (Littell and Freund 2000). The diagnostics of outliers 
suggested the deletion of 11 observation datasets. Table 5 shows that the optimal subset of 
variables for the cross-sectional performance include s tCR )4(22  , 
s
tCR )4(14  , 
s
tCR )4(13  , 
s
tCR )4(29  , 
s
tCR )4(34  , 
s
tCR )4(16  , and 
s
tCR )4(8  , where 0.811 of the variation in the 
cross-sectional performance data is explained. As the values of adjusted R-squared decrease 
by adding more variables after Model 7, the optimal models developed in steps 7 through 11 
are not presented in Table 5. 
 
Model Building for Firm-Specific Financial Performance Forecasting 
 
Prior to refining the cross-sectional performance model into a firm-specific financial 
performance forecasting model using forward stepwise regression, studentized residuals were 
used for detecting outliers. The diagnostics suggested that no outliers exist in the data of the 
subsets of variables. Table 6 summarizes the overall analysis of GDC’s firm-specific 
 15
Model Restructuring for Remedial Measures for Seasonal Cycles and Multicollinearity 
 
The results of Durbin-Watson statistics and Yule-Walker estimates for GDC’s performance 
forecasting model are shown in Table 7. (In this study, p was assessed for 1 through 4, and 
the threshold p-value of 0.05 was used for judging the existence of autocorrelation.) The 
Durbin-Watson statistics (with a p-value of 0.0003) suggest a significantly positive first order 
in the model on the basis of the 0.05 threshold value. Yule-Walker estimates were therefore 
performed to estimate the set of autoregressive parameters for model restructuring, shown in 
the center portion of Table 7. The right portion of Table 7 shows the test results of 
Durbin-Watson statistics after Yule-Walker estimates, indicating that autocorrelation is 
largely reduced from a p-value of 0.0003 to a p-value of 0.0418. 
The multicollinearity diagnostics of GDC’s performance-forecasting model is revealed 
in Table 8, where the column labeled Condition Number (indicating the square root of the 
ratio of the largest to smallest eigenvalue) indicates the degree of near-linear dependencies, 
and when variables with variation proportions greater than 0.5 for each of these eigenvalues 
are considered to be possibly involved in the near-linear dependency (Belsley et al., 1980). 
As seen in the table, the s tCR )4(14   and 
s
tCR )4(16   variables of the second eigenvalue have 
variation proportions 0.99700 and 0.99700, respectively. This suggests that 0.997 of the 
variance of the s tCR )4(14   parameter estimate is associated with the second eigenvalue. 
Similarly, 0.997 of s tCR )4(16   is associated the second eigenvalue. Thus, the 
s
tCR )4(14   and 
s
tCR )4(16   variables are correlated. 
Table 9 describes the result of the incomplete principal component regression analysis 
for the performance-forecasting model for GDC, where PCOMIT = perform incomplete 
principal component analysis and outputs estimates; PARMS = provide parameters to the 
ordinary least-squares method; SEB = produce standard errors of the regression coefficients; 
 17
Table 10 shows the analysis of the out-of-sample forecasts by the PF model for GDC. 
As seen in the table, the average MAPE of PF (c) is 13.87%. Figure 1 depicts the comparison 
between the patterns of actual and predicted quarterly firm performance created with PF (c) 
for GDC. Similar performance forecasting models were developed for the other three firms 
(because of space limitations, the complete modeling details for those firms are not presented 
here but are available from the authors on request). Table 11 is the analysis summary of the 
out-of-sample forecast data sets for CEC, Hung Poo, and RDC, respectively. Figure 2 plots 
the patterns of actual quarterly firm performance against predicted quarterly firm 
performance created with PF (b) for CEC. Figure 3 plots the patterns created with PF (b) for 
Hung Poo, and Figure 4 plots the patterns created with PF (a) for RDC. 
 
Discussion 
 
As shown in Table 5, the values of adjusted R-squared before and after stCR1  is converted 
back to CR t1  from model 7 of the estimation data are 0.811 and 0.789, respectively. A 
relatively low-loss value for adjusted R-squared after stCR1  is converted back to CR t1 , 0.022, 
indicates the stability of the model. A high adjusted R-squared before stCR1  is converted 
back to CR t1 , 0.811, suggests that the cumulative changes in the level of )4(22 tCR , )4(14 tCR , 
)4(13 tCR , )4(29 tCR , )4(34 tCR , )4(16 tCR , and )4(8 tCR  could reliably signal those in the 
level of CR t1 .  
Specifically, those significant positive coefficients of the cumulative changes in 
)4(22 tCR , )4(14 tCR , )4(29 tCR , and )4(34 tCR  in the model indicate that the cumulative 
changes in ROE, total debt to equity, average monthly working hours of manufacturing, and 
gross domestic product for time t–4 move in the same direction as the firms' financial 
performance for time t. Likewise, those significant negative coefficients of the cumulative 
 19
its results with the forecasting results from a related study by Russell and Zhai (1996). For 
the purpose of comparison, this study needed to further transform the out-of-sample forecast 
results of GDC’s financial performance forecasting model to performance failure or 
nonfailure. Failure is defined as a negative ROE at time t. Based on the percentile ranks of 
firm performance in Table 4, a firm’s ROE is negative when the firm’s percentile rank is 
below 42nd percentile. 
As shown in Tables 10 and 11, there were 0, 0, 5, and 0 misclassified for GDC, CEC, 
Hung Poo, and RDC, respectively. The total rate of misclassification was 10.42% (5/48), 
which outperforms Russell’s and Zhai’s (1996) performance failure forecasting model; their 
total rate of misclassification was 22.7% (5/22). 
 
Research Benefits 
 
By analyzing the relationship between financial and economic variables and financial 
performance, this study develops firm-specific performance forecasting models from the 
cross-sectional performance model. The developed models provide managers (internal users) 
with a percentile prediction of a firm’s performance relative to other firms in the industry. By 
using the percentile ranks of firm performance in Table 4, the predicted percentile further 
provides management with an indication of the firm's future, quantitative financial 
performance. 
In particular, using the proposed methodology to predict firm financial performance 
only requires the income statement, balance sheet, and economic data that are accessible to 
the general public and thus provides a more easily applicable alternative tool. As such, both 
investors and creditors (external users) can employ the proposed methodology to evaluate the 
potential financial performance of their targeted firms, assisting them in their decisions about 
trading strategy and portfolio management. This is a direct benefit to external users. A more 
subtle benefit to practitioners through this study is that the significant relationships between 
 21
As an extension of this research, a study of a firm’s business capability through the 
project process, such as marketing, financial feasibility analysis, planning, executing, 
monitoring and controlling, and closing, would be beneficial in that the firm’s business 
capability might significantly change the result of a project, which in return affects firm 
financial performance. Another extension of this research would be to construct the analysis 
of firm financial performance according to firms’ size, capital structure, and industry. By 
combining these extensions, future research should be able to provide more insight into the 
cause-and-effect relationships between measures and firm performance, enabling 
management to recognize the opportunities of continuous improvement. 
 
Acknowledgments 
 
The authors would like to thank the Taiwan National Science Council for financially 
supporting this research. The authors also thank anonymous reviewers for their useful 
comments and suggestions.  
 23
Dai, C.X., and Wells W.G. (2004). “An exploration of project management office features and 
their relationship to project performance.” International Journal of Project Management, 
27(7), 523–532. 
Deakin, E.B. (1972). “A discriminate analysis of predictors of business failure.” Journal of 
Accounting Research, 10, 167–179. 
Dhaliwal, D., Subramanyam, K.R., and Trezevant, R. (1999). “Is comprehensive income 
superior to net income as a measure of firm performance?” Journal of Accounting and 
Economics, 26(1), 43–67. 
Dua, P., and Smith, D.J. (1995). “Forecasting U.S. home sales using BVAR models and 
survey data on households’ buying attitudes for homes.” Journal of Forecasting, 14, 
167–180. 
Elyamany, A., Basha, I., Zayed, T. (2007). “Performance evaluating model for construction 
companies: Egyptian case study.” Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 
133(8), 574–581. 
Evans, J.R., and Jack, E.P. (2003). “Validating key results linkages in the Baldrige 
Performance Excellence Model.” Quality Management Journal, 10(2), 7–24. 
Freund R.J., and Wilson, W.J. (1998). Regression Analysis: Statistical Modeling of a 
Response Variable, Academic Press, San Diego. 
Goda, A. (1999). “Assessment of Construction Contracting Companies Performance in 
Egypt.” Ph.D. Dissertation, Zagazig University, Faculty of Engineering Library, Egypt. 
Kagioglou, M., Cooper, R. and Aouad, G. (2001). “Performance management in construction: 
a conceptual framework.” Construction Management and Economics, 19(1), 85–95. 
Kaka, A.P., and Lewis, J. (2003). “Development of a company-level dynamic cash flow 
forecasting model (DYCAFF).” Construction Management and Economics, 21(7), 
693–705. 
 25
Russell, J.S., and Jaselskis, E.J. (1992). “Predicting construction contractor failure prior to 
contract award.” Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 118(4), 
791–811. 
Russell, J.S., Jaselskis, E.J., and Lawrence, S.P. (1997). “Continuous assessment of project 
performance.” Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 123(1), 64–71. 
Russell, J.S., and Zhai, H. (1996). “Predicting contractor failure using stochastic dynamics of 
economic and financial variables.” Journal of Construction Engineering and 
Management, 122(2), 183–191. 
Severson, G.D., Russell, J.S., and Jaselskis, E.J. (1994). “Predicting contract surety bond 
claims using contractor financial data.” Journal of Construction Engineering and 
Management, 120(2), 405–420. 
Skinner, D.J. (1999). “How well does net income measure firm performance? A discussion of 
two studies.” Journal of Accounting and Economics, 26(1), 105–111. 
Shumway, R.H., and Stoffer, D.S. (2000). Time Series Analysis and Its Application. 
Springer-Verlag Inc., New York. 
Stephens, M. A. (1974). “EDF statistics for goodness of fit and some comparisons.” Journal 
of the American Statistical Association, 69(347), 730-737. 
Sulek, J.M., Marucheck, A., and Lind, M.R. (2006). “Measuring performance in multi-stage 
service operations: An application of cause selecting control charts.” Journal of 
Operations Management, 24(5), 711–727. 
Vinod, H.D. (1973). “Generalization of the Durbin-Watson statistic for higher order 
autoregressive process.” Communications in Statistics, 2(2), 115–144. 
Wild, J.J, Subramanyam, K.R., and Halsey, R.F. (2004). Fundamentals of Financial 
Statement Analysis, MacGraw-Hill, New York. 
White, H. (1980). “A heteroskedasticity-consistent covariance matrix estimator and a direct 
 27
Captions to Tables 
 
Table 1. Sample firms used to illustrate the development of firm-specific performance 
forecasting models. 
Table 2. Economic and financial variables as predictor attributes. 
Table 3. Descriptive statistics and correlation tests for hypotheses 1, 2, 3, and 4. 
Table 4. Percentile ranks of firm performance based on ROE using the estimation data of the 
42 sample firms between 1997 Q1 and 2003 Q4. 
Table 5. Cross-sectional performance model created with the forward stepwise regression 
using the estimation data of 42 sample firms. 
Table 6. Firm-specific performance-forecasting model for GDC refined from the 
cross-sectional model. 
Table 7. Durbin-Watson (DW) statistics and Yule-Walker estimators of GDC’s performance 
forecasting model. 
Table 8. Multicollinearity diagnostics of GDC’s performance forecasting model. 
Table 9. Incomplete principal component regression analysis of GDC's performance 
forecasting model 
Table 10. Out-of-sample predictions by the PF (c) model for GDC. 
Table 11. Out-of-sample predictions by the PF models for CEC, Hung Poo, and RDC. 
Table 12. Converting the validation results of the out-of-sample forecasts to annual results. 
 
 29
Table 2. Economic and financial variables as predictor attributes. 
Variable Definition  
V1t Firm performance for time t 
Short-Term Liquidity and Efficiency 
V2t Current ratio for time t 
V3t Accounts receivable turnover for time t 
V4t Inventory turnover for time t 
V5t Days’ sales in accounts receivables for time t 
V6t Days’ sales in inventory for time t 
V7t Days’ purchase in accounts payable for time t 
V8t Approximate conversion period for time t 
V9t Cash conversion cycle (CCC) for time t 
V10t Cash to current liabilities for time t 
V11t Asset turnover for time t 
V12t Sales to short-term liabilities for time t 
V13t Cost of good sold (COGS) to sales for time t 
Capital Structure and Solvency 
V14t Total debt to equity for time t 
V15t Total debt ratio for time t 
V16t Long-term debt to equity for time t 
V17t Fixed assets to equity for time t 
V18t Current liabilities to total liabilities for time t 
V19t Times interest earned for time t 
V20t Cash flow to total debt for time t 
Profitability and Market Prospects 
V21t Return on assets for time t 
V22t Return on common stockholders' equity for time t 
V23t Return on sales for time t 
V24t Basic earnings per share for time t 
V25t Price-earnings Ratio (Basic) for time t 
Economy 
V26t Manufacturers’ new orders for time t 
V27t Export by customs for time t 
V28t Money supply (M1b) for time t 
V29t Average monthly working hours of manufacturing for time t 
V30t Floor area permitted for building construction in area for time t 
V31t Index of stock price for time t 
V32t Wholesale price index for time t 
V33t Unemployment rate for time t 
V34t Gross domestic product for time t 
V35t Consumer price index for time t 
V36t National consumption expenditure for time t 
 
 31
Table 4. Percentile ranks of firm performance based on ROE using the estimation data of the 
42 sample firms between 1997 Q1 and 2003 Q4. 
Percentile Number of 
Observatio
ns 
Mean 
Return 
Minimum 
Return 
Maximum 
Return 
40 to <41 12 -0.00208 -0.00256 -0.00163 
41 to <42 4 -0.00079 -0.00084 -0.00073 
42 to <44 40 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 
44 to <45 3 0.000543 0.000504 0.000593 
45 to <46 10 0.000724 0.000632 0.000792 
46 to <47 11 0.000841 0.000796 0.000913 
47 to <48 12 0.001236 0.000939 0.001512 
48 to <49 12 0.001594 0.001531 0.001629 
49 to <50 11 0.001771 0.001643 0.001932 
50 to <51 12 0.002331 0.001951 0.002668 
51 to <52 11 0.002964 0.002700 0.00328 
52 to <53 12 0.003855 0.003365 0.004087 
53 to <54 12 0.004274 0.004091 0.004422 
54 to <55 10 0.004935 0.004643 0.00522 
55 to <56 12 0.005792 0.005388 0.006028 
56 to <57 12 0.006235 0.006033 0.006468 
57 to <58 12 0.006756 0.006476 0.007134 
58 to <59 12 0.007555 0.007174 0.007914 
59 to <60 12 0.008442 0.007979 0.008952 
Note: Due to space limitations, this study only lists the range of percentiles from 40 to 60. 
 
 33
Table 6. Firm-specific performance-forecasting model for GDC refined from the cross-sectional model. 
Response variable: CR t
s
1  
Variables and Sources Model 1 Model 2 
Coefficient T-Value Anderson-Darling 
Statistic 
Chi-Square Coefficient T-Value Anderson-Darling 
Statistic 
Chi-Square 
Step 1         
Intercept 1.801 6.191**   1.952 7.621**   
s
tCR )4(14   0.951 46.537**   0.543 3.584 **   
Step 2         
s
tCR )4(16       0.427 2.714
*   
         
MSE 0.415    0.307    
2R  0.992    0.994    
Adjusted 2R  0.991    0.994    
Anderson-Darling 
test 
  0.421a    0.453  
White test    2.670 b    5.900 
a The corresponding P-values of the Anderson-Darling statistic of Models 1 and 2 are 0.293 and 0.243. 
b The corresponding P-values of the White test of Models 1 and 2 are 0.263 and 0.316. 
 
 35
Table 8. Multicollinearity diagnostics of GDC's performance-forecasting model. 
Principal 
Component 
Eigenvalue Condition 
Number 
Proportion of Variation 
s
tCR )4(14   
s
tCR )4(16   
1 1.99399 1.00000 0.00300 0.00300 
2 0.00601 18.22057 0.99700 0.99700 
 
 37
Table 10. Out-of-sample predictions by the PF (c) model for GDC. 
Observation CR t
s
1  CR t
s
1  CR t1  APR
 a CR t1  PPR b
29 (2004 Q1) 25.9616 26.3848 1.8378 71 1.4147 54 
30 (2004 Q2) 28.1954 28.5906 2.2059 80 1.8107 62 
31 (2004 Q3) 30.7639 30.5906 2.0000 84 2.1733 87 
32 (2004 Q4) 32.5611 32.0192 1.4286 88 1.9704 116 
33 (2005 Q1) 33.4267 32.9604 0.9412 71 1.4075 100 
34 (2005 Q2) 33.8877 33.9737 1.0133 85 0.9273 74 
35 (2005 Q3) 34.9721 35.0507 1.0769 92 0.9984 84 
36 (2005 Q4) 36.1117 36.1382 1.0875 94 1.0610 93 
37 (2006 Q1) 37.2096 37.1538 1.0156 71 1.0714 76 
38 (2006 Q2) 38.1544 38.1406 0.9868 83 1.0006 85 
39 (2006 Q3) 39.1129 39.1406 1.0000 92 0.9723 89 
40 (2006 Q4) 40.1258 40.1406 1.0000 93 0.9852 93 
a APR = Actual Percentile Rank 
b PPR = Predicted Percentile Rank 
CR t
s
1 = PF (c) = 1.02086 + 0.92331
s
tCR )4(14  + 0.15961
s
tCR )4(16  , where the average MAPE = 
13.87%.  
 
 39
Table 12. Converting the validation results of the out-of-sample forecasts to annual results. 
Source Unit: Quarter Unit: Year 
Mean Standard 
Deviation
Variance Mean Standard 
Deviation 
Variance
The proposed 
cross-sectional firm 
performance forecasting 
model 
-0.01 13.88 192.64 -0.01 4.78 23.01 
Elyamany et al. (2007) 
performance grade model 
   -1.76 37.58 1,417.40
 
Pattern Matching Logic
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Ordinal Quarter (2004Q1 to 2006Q4)
Pe
rfo
rm
an
ce
 P
er
ce
nt
ile
 
Actual Firm Performance 
Predicted Firm Performance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Comparison between actual and forecasted quarterly firm performance generated by 
the PF (c) model for GDC. 
 43
Pattern Matching Logic
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Ordinal Quarter (2004Q1 to 2006Q4)
Pe
rfo
rm
an
ce
 P
er
ce
nt
ile
 .
Actual Firm Performance 
Predicted Firm Performance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. Comparison between actual and forecasted quarterly firm performance generated by 
the PF (b) model for Hung Poo. 
