摘要 
 
網際網路世代的來臨改變了許多既有產業的溝通風貌，更是給遊戲產業創造了無限的
商業契機。目前炙手可熱的線上遊戲，業已出現了許多相關的遊戲安全議題，譬如修改遊
戲封包或使用所謂外掛程式來降低遊戲的困難度…等。部份網路遊戲或單機版遊戲，主要
利潤來自於遊戲套件的販賣，如何防止主程式遭到盜拷複製為其討論重點。 
網路遊戲的安全性，包括涉及到作弊所造成的不公平性，以及玩家帳號與虛擬財寶被
盜的風險；而盜版行為的猖獗，也造成了藉由販賣遊戲套件的公司蒙受不少損失，對數位
權利管理（DRM）上的破壞無庸置疑。近來免費提供於網路上的外掛程式、或是自動練功機
器人，氾濫的程度已對線上遊戲造成不小的傷害。玩家對於遊戲公平性的質疑會影響付費
續玩的意願。而本計劃的目標，在於解決線上遊戲遭受惡意使用者使用作弊程式，而使線
上遊戲產生不公平競爭與網路漏洞的問題，以及解決侵害到數位權利管理（DRM）的盜版光
碟問題。在基於不增加遊戲公司的負擔，與不增加玩家的購買或進行遊戲的複雜度等這些
前提下，讓業者與玩家能廣泛的接受與應用。 
 
關鍵詞: 線上遊戲、作弊程式、網路安全、數位權利管理、盜版光碟 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
本計畫成果已投稿並刊登於 2010 International Conference on Business and Information 
(BAI2010)，2010/07/5-7 於日本的Kitakyushu舉行。最後定稿paper 如下： 
Table 1 A Report Investigating Network Behaviour 
 
The above-mentioned phenomena imply that the upsurge and influence of on-line games is 
cumulating day by day and bringing limitless business opportunities to the industry. According to 
DFC Intelligence (Fig. 1), the global gross output value of on-line gaming was 1,900 million 
dollars in 2003, with 50% of that business coming from Asia, which is also the largest wide-band 
market in the world. The global value of on-line gaming will grow up to 5,200 million dollars in 
2006, and grow up to 9,800 million dollars by 2009 [2]. 
 
Fig. 1. The estimated output value of the on-line gaming market 
 
With the development of the on-line gaming industry, security issues are receiving significantly 
more attention. Due to the law guaranteeing that fictitious assets have essence value, there is a 
greater inducement that causes illegal players or network hackers to steal legal players' account 
numbers. In the following section, we will firstly introduce the password-guessing attack. It will 
cause the damage of player rights and interests. 
A user-chosen weak secret (password) is used for authentication in most systems. 
Password-guessing attacks that are performed through an iterative guessing and verifying are 
surprisingly successful on weak secret. The goal of password-guessing attacks is to find out the 
this account number. This will mean that the legal player cannot login to the game and damages 
their rights and interests. 
If players bought credits or paid monthly rent for online games, they might have difficulties to 
log in the game for a certain period of time due to attackers' continuously attacks which caused 
the player's time and money wasting. Ironically, the password mechanism is initially used to 
protect players' virtual properties and rights from online theft but it also directly or indirectly 
causes the play's lost of money and time by accident. This research had designed a games' 
security mechanism which is trying to transfer the puzzling method from servers to players. This 
new security mechanism is likely to reduce the probability of attackers' password guessing attack 
in order to provide a secure online gaming environment. 
 
3. Proposed Authentication Scheme 
 
3.1 Puzzle 
 
The idea of requiring the client to commit their resources was first described by Dwork and Naor 
[3]. They suggested increasing the cost of electronic junk mail by asking the sender to solve a 
small cryptographic puzzle for each message. The cost would be negligible for normal users but 
high for mass mailers. Juels and Brainard [4] recently presented a simpler puzzle that could be 
sent to TCP clients during a suspected SYN attack. If the server thinks it is under a 
denial-of-service attack, it can ask clients to compute the reverse of a secure one-way function by 
brute force before they are allowed to carry on with rest of the protocol. Revealing some input 
bits to the client and letting it find the remaining ones parameterize the cost of the brute force 
computation. 
A good puzzle should have the following properties [5]: 
1. Creating a puzzle and verifying the solution should be inexpensive for the server. 
2. The cost of solving the puzzle should be easy to adjust from being zero to impossible. 
3. The puzzle should be able to be solved on most types of client hardware (although it may take 
longer with slow hardware). 
4. It should not be possible to pre-compute solutions to the puzzles. 
5. While the client is solving the puzzle, the server should be not need to store the solution or 
other client-specific data. 
6. The same puzzle should be given to several clients. Knowing the solution of one or more 
clients does not help a new client solve the puzzle. 
7. A client should be able to reuse a puzzle by creating several instances of it. 
The puzzle we use is the brute-force reversal of a one-way hash function such as MD5 or SHA. 
This is a practical choice because the hash functions are computable with a wide variety of 
hardware and the brute-force testing of different inputs is likely to remain the most efficient way 
for computing the inverse of these functions. 
To create new puzzles, the server periodically generates a nonce NS and sends it to the clients. To 
prevent the attacker from pre-computing solutions, the nonce needs to be random and not 
predictable like, for example, time stamps (About 64 bits of entropy is sufficient to prevent the 
attacker from creating a database of solutions from which it could frequently find a matching 
Input account number 
, password, (puzzle) 
Check right
wrong
Log the wrong numbers of time  
in the player’s database 
Puzzle generator  
generates the  
corresponding puzzle 
Based on the wrong
Login  
successful 
First login
 
Fig. 2. The flowchart of an authentication scheme for on-line games 
 
4. Security Analysis 
 
In this mechanism, we mainly intended to prevent attackers' continuously password guessing 
which would cause that authentic users could not log in games consequently and the users' rights 
were lost as a result. 
In order to prevent such a situation, the mechanism that we proposed will not lock an account 
number when the wrong passwords are entered. Moreover, it can also prevent a hostile assailant 
carrying out continual password-guessing attacks. If attackers input wrong passwords, servers 
will increase the complexity of puzzles when someone attempts trying to log in this account next 
time that it will take longer to solve the puzzles. Under the climate of continual mistakes, the 
degree of difficulty of the puzzle will be increased, requiring at least five minutes solving it. 
Therefore, only 288 attempts ((24*60) too /5) can be made within one day, greatly reducing the 
chance of the password being guessed correctly. 
In addition, if a legal player inscrolls to the system at this moment, then they will only need to 
wait five minutes at most. The system will send a message to this user, highlighting that the 
account number has already been attacked and inquiring whether the user has changed their 
password. 
Under this structure, it could not only prevent password guessing attacks but also prevent 
attackers who purposely input wrong passwords in order to protect authentic users' rights. 
 
5. Conclusions 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
計畫編號  NSC 98-2221-E-218 -031  
計畫名稱  線上遊戲安全整合認證機制之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
葉禾田 
南台科技大學 資訊傳播系 副教授  
會議時間地點  July 5-7, 2010  
會議名稱 2010 International Conference on Business and Information 
(BAI2010)  
發表論文題目 AN EFFICIENT AUTHENTICATION SCHEME FOR 
ON-LINE GAME 
 
 
今年2010 International Conference on Business and Information (BAI2010) 於7月5-7日在
日本的Kitakyushu舉辦，此會議共收錄來自包含澳洲、加拿大、中國、台灣、法國、德國、香
港、印度、日本、韓國、馬來西亞等等28個國家共471篇的論文，此會議相當受研究學者重視
且是一個能提供及吸收新研究方向及結果的一個好會議。我們所發表的論文為：  
AN EFFICIENT AUTHENTICATION SCHEME FOR ON-LINE GAME  
與會學者雖未對我們的論文提出挑戰或意見，但與會研究學者專家都相互進行認識與交流，希
望未來有機會能進行國際合作與參訪。此外，吾人亦收集相關資訊安全與密碼學的相關研究資
料，如：由 National Defense University 之 Ding-Chyu Liu 教授等人所提之 Using Model 
Checking to Ensure Transaction Fairness in E-Commerce Protocols，來自National Yunlin Unviersity 
of Science and Technology Lih-Chyau Wuu 教授等人所提之 A Secure Mobile E-Wallet with 
Biometrics Authentication on Multiple-Bank Environment，來自 Tzu Chi University Tian-Fu Lee 教
授等人所提之 Password Authentication Scheme Using Smart Cards for Multiple Services 等等，此
類論文在對我們繼續探索資訊安全等研究，皆有相當大的助益。 
International Conference on Business and Information自從2004年第一次在台北劍潭青年
活動中心舉辦以來，今年已是第六屆，每年舉辦的地點皆有不同，明年規劃辦理的地點將會在
泰國的曼谷，可以預期的是將又會是全球專家學者的一大盛會，會中亦邀請與會人士繼續予以
支持，並將優秀的研究論文投至明年的BAI2011，進一步做全球學術交流。 
最後吾人要感謝國科會對於我們的研究經費之支持與協助，若無國科會之協助，本次國際交流
可能就無法成行，所以在此再一次的感謝國科會，讓我們能夠順利參與 BAI2010 國際會議並進
行相關報告與交流活動。以下為出席 BAI2010 的相關照片，與台灣同往日本之資訊安全專家學
者合影之照片。 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
