1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
■成果報告   
□期中進度報告 
 
標準SiGe BiCMOS製程下光偵測器特性研究及其應用 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-007 -029 -  
執行期間： 100年 8月 1日 至 101年 7月 31日 
 
計畫主持人：徐永珍 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：黃吉成, 廖偉傑, 洪于倩  
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列管計
畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立清華大學電子工程研究所 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  10  月   12  日 
3 
 
畫有一重點工作，即在於探討照光時元件中各
成分電流所佔的比例以及其反應較為靈敏的光
波長落於何處，藉以於應用時能選用最佳的成
分電流來使用，因此元件的各個接點均拉出測
試點，以利於量測電流成分。圖三所示為量測
到的 PTPD 光響應度(Responsivity)的頻譜響應
圖，包括 emitter 端電流 IE 和 collector端電流 IC
所對應的光響應度，而 base 端點為 floating，量
測時偏壓為 VCE=1.2 V。 
量測結果顯示 PTPD 頻譜響應峰值落在波
長 650 nm 處，SPD 面積對峰值位置沒有影響，
但是 SPD 面積越小則光響應度也越小。值得注
意的是，不論 SPD 面積大或小，各個波長下 IC
都大於 IE，兩者在頻譜響應峰值處的差距隨
SPD 面積變小而加大。在長波長頻段，當 IE 為
零時，IC 不為零，且不同 SPD 面積下之 PTPD
其 IE 值都收斂為零，IC 值都收斂為同一個不為
零的值。這些特徵暗示著 PTPD 中的 emitter 
current 包含 PTPD 的主要電流，即由 SPD 與 BC 
junction diode 收集到的光電流經內建電晶體放
大者，且 SPD更佔有主導 IE的角色；而 collector 
current 則包含 IE 以及寄生於底部的 buried 
N
+
/p-substrate junction diode 所產生的光電流。
SPD是由 poly-Si emitter和 SiGe base的 junction
構成，因為poly-Si會吸收光(尤其是短波長光)，
當 SPD 面積越大時會使得到達 BC junction 
diode 的光強度變小，進而使 BC junction diode
所產生的光電流就變小，所以當 SPD 面積越大
時，SPD 光電流越大而 BC junction diode 光電
流越小；反之，當 SPD 面積越小時，SPD 光電
流越小而 BC junction diode 光電流越大。從圖三
觀之，IE 受 SPD 光電流影響較大，不僅其大小
隨 SPD 面積成正比變化，且頻譜響應峰值相當
固定。 
此外，寄生於底部的 buried N+/p-substrate 
junction diode 所產生的光電流是 IE 和 IC 有差
異的主體，它不會被電晶體放大，而是直接進
入 collector terminal 成為 IC 的一部分。當 SPD
面積越大時，也會使得到達 buried N+/p-substrate 
junction diode 的光強度變小，進而使其所產生
的光電流變小，所以當 SPD 面積越大時，IE 和
IC 在頻譜響應峰值處的差異就越不明顯。此寄
生電流的頻譜響應峰值處可從圖三推得大約位
在 850 nm 處，與 buried N+/p-substrate junction 
diode 的深度相符，且此寄生電流的大小在長波
長處與 SPD 面積大小無關，更驗證了此光電流
乃是由位於深處的 junction 所產生的推論。 
圖 四 為 本 計 畫 所 研 究 的  SiGe 
Heterojunction Phototransistor (HPT)側面結構示
意圖，其與 PTPD 最大不同處在於絕大部分受
光面積上面沒有被 poly-Si 覆蓋，因此入射光不
受衰減，直接打入 SiGe base以及下方各 junction。
圖五所示為量測到的 HPT 光響應度的頻譜響應
圖，圖中同時畫出 PTPD 者以做一比較。量測
結果顯示 HPT 光響應度更高，且在短波長頻段
明顯有較高的光響應度，頻譜響應峰值處則有
blue shift 現象，落在波長靠近 600 nm 處。此因
HPT 雖然沒有 SPD 可以產生光電流，但是也因
為沒有poly-Si會衰減光強(尤其是短波長的光)，
在加上 SiGe base 只有約 100 nm 厚，所以 BC 
junction diode 不僅可以吸收到較強的光，產生
較大光電流，而且短波長的光都吸收得到。在
長波長頻段 HPT 的頻譜響應則類似 PTPD 者，
IC 最後由寄生的 buried N+/p-substrate junction 
diode 主導，IE 則趨於零。 
從以上的實驗結果可知，SiGe PTPD和HPT
都有高的光響應度，可輕易達到數個 A/W，頻
譜響應峰值則落在 600 nm 到 650 nm 間。若要
對短波長光有較佳響應，可選用 SiGe HPT。寄
生的 buried N+/p-substrate junction diode 會產生
慢速的 substrate 電流，匯入 collector terminal，
因此若要避免此電流拖累 OEIC 的速度，則應選
用 IE 作為電路的 input current。 
 
四、光接收機電路 
本計畫亦設計 Optical Receiver 積體電路，
5 
 
能驗證。 
本計畫成果衍生之學術論文正撰寫中，預
計投稿 Applied Physics Letters 與 IEEE J. of 
Solid-State Circuits 各一篇。 
 
七、參考文獻 
[1] Kuang-Sheng Lai, Ji-Chen Huang, and Klaus 
Y.-J. Hsu, 2007, “High Responsivity 
Photodetector in Standard SiGe BiCMOS 
Technology”, IEEE Electron Device Letters 28, 
pp. 800-802. 
[2] S. M. Park and H.-J. Yoo, “1.25-Gb/s regulated 
cascode CMOS transimpedance ampliﬁer for 
gigabit Ethernet applications,” IEEE J. of 
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 
112–121, Jan. 2004. 
[3] Huei-Yan Huang, Jun-Chau Chien, and 
Liang-Hung Lu, “A 10-Gbps inductorless 
CMOS limiting amplifier with third-order 
interleaving active feedback,” IEEE Journal of 
Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 42, No. 5, May 2007. 
[4] 黃吉成,“應用於 0.35 m SiGe BiCMOS 
高速光電積體電路之設計技巧”, 國立清
華大學, 電子工程研究所, 博士論文, 中
華民國九十八年七月. 
 
 
圖一 PTPD 結構圖 
 
圖二 不同 SPD 面積下之 PTPD 佈局圖 
 
 
 
圖三 不同 SPD 面積下 PTPD 光響應度之頻譜響應量測值 
 
 
 
圖四 HPT 結構圖 
450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
 
 
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
iv
it
y
 (
A
/W
)
Wavelength (nm)
 PTPD_IC
 PTPD_IE
 PTPD_1/2SPD_IC
 PTPD_1/2SPD_IE
7 
 
 
圖十 3×3 影像偵測器 pixel array電路佈局擺位圖 
 
 
圖十一 3×3 架構晶片裸照圖 
 
 
圖十二 九個像素輸出雙端差值隨照度響應之量測結果 
 
 
 
圖十三 九個像素輸出雙端差值隨照度響應之模擬結果
9 
 
本人此次在會議中發表的論文為： 
 
“Method for Achieving CMOS MEMS Accelerometers with Excellent Built-in Thermal 
Stability and Reduced Charge Damage”， 屬於 Materials Exploration 領域中的
Microelectromechanical Systems – Materials and Devices V 之 session，內容是描述我們所設
計、並以標準 0.35-  CMOS 製程加上簡單幾道微機電(MEMS)後製程即可實現的全整合
式 CMOS 微機電(CMOS MEMS)加速度計，此全整合式微機電加速度計整合了一個電容式
微機電加速度偵測器以及一個全差動式 chopper-stabilized偵測放大積體電路於同一個單晶
片上，形成了一個 SoC (System on a Chip)，其最大特色包括 CMOS MEMS 加速度偵測器
的結構設計創新以及 MEMS 後製程創新兩方面。傳統 CMOS MEMS 電容式偵測器是由標
準 CMOS 製程裡的表面 metal-dielectric multi-layers 所構成，厚度很薄，加上 metal 和
dielectric 材料的熱脹係數不同，因此 MEMS 結構極易彎曲，且彎曲程度隨溫度變化而變，
造成元件擁有極大的 offset 以及很差的熱穩定性。吾人所創新的 CMOS MEMS 電容式偵
測器結構中，於 metal-dielectric multi-layers 下方增加了一層厚的矽晶層，在不影響偵測器
的靈敏度下，大幅減少結構的彎曲，而溫度變化所造成的影響也有數量級的減小。此種設
計是直接在結構上做改進，不需額外電路做任何補償，因此效率更高，晶片面積更小，外
部元件更少。此種設計同時也使得製程變異對偵測器靈敏度的影響變得微乎其微，非常適
合量產。此外，我們設計了一套新的 MEMS 後製程以製造此創新的 CMOS MEMS 電容式
偵測器結構，與傳統 MEMS 後製程相較，吾人所創新的 MEMS 後製程步驟簡單，而且完
全不會造成金屬層的損毀， MEMS 結構的垂直度接近完美，因此大大地增加了 MEMS 元
件以及晶片上積體電路的可靠度。我們的發明降低了成本、增進整體性能與可靠度，極具
應用潛力。 
本人於大會中發表本論文時，許多與會專家咸認為吾人之設計所展現的優點以及量測
所顯示的優良特性令人印象深刻。而傳統應用上 MEMS 元件和偵測 IC 是分開的元件，必
須靠 bonding 和封裝技術將之結合於一個封裝內，為 SiP (System in a Package)，因此與會
人員看到我們已經可以展示 MEMS SoC、而且是可以量產的 MEMS SoC 技術時，均露出
訝異與興奮的表情，Q&A 時的發問也很踴躍。Session 主席也特別於會後前來握手道賀，
稱本論文是一個 excellent work and great stuff。 
心得: 
 近年來我國在 MRS Fall Meeting 這麼大的研討會中發表研究成果的論文篇數似乎不
多，反而是留美或留歐的大陸學人積極參與，勢力的消長明顯且令人憂心。 
 半導體技術與材料技術持續往小尺寸發展，各種奈米級技術的嘗試如雨後春筍般出
現，但最後還是大公司將主導這些技術的存廢。大家開始思考將半導體技術與其他
領域做結合。國外在材料技術研究上樣多量也多，但是真正能落實系統化應用的例
子並不多。我國在半導體、IC 領域的學術、技術能力還是位居世界領先群中，因此
利於整合應用。 
11 
 
 
13 
 
Unfortunately, the thin beams, such as the sense beams and the spring beams, in the CMOS 
MEMS sensors usually suffer from out-of-plane (i.e. vertical) curling and in-plane (i.e. lateral) 
curling. The residual stress in the structure layers and the differential temperature coefficients of 
expansion (TCE) of the layers often induce severe temperature-dependent curls. The curling leads 
to temperature-dependent varying electrode coupling which in turn causes variation in the 
sensitivity and the DC offset of sensors. A curl-matching technique was proposed to reduce the 
effect of residual stress [2, 3]. However, much extra chip area is needed to fabricate a required rigid 
frame and the sensor structure becomes more complicated. A temperature stabilization scheme was 
proposed in an attempt to reduce the temperature dependence of CMOS MEMS sensors [4]. 
Poly-silicon heaters were integrated in CMOS MEMS accelerometers so as to maintain the sensors 
at a constant temperature. The measured magnitude of zero-g temperature coefficient of the 
accelerometers was 42 mg/°C. However, using the resistive poly-silicon heaters raised the power 
consumption to a level as high as 97.5 mW, which poses restriction in many applications.  
 
 
Figure 1. Schematic representation of the cross-sectional view of a MEMS sensor implemented by 
using the MEMS process proposed in [1]. 
 
This work reduces the temperature dependence of CMOS MEMS capacitive sensors by 
using a new post-CMOS (bulk) MEMS process that allows the MEMS structures to include a thick 
layer of single crystalline silicon (SCS) underneath the metal-oxide multi-layers. With the 
introduction of this layer, the curling of the beams in the MEMS structures can be much suppressed 
without consuming any extra power and chip area. 
 
CURLING ANALYSIS 
 
Figures 2(a) and 2(b) show the schematic representation of a typical single-axis CMOS 
MEMS capacitive sensor structure in this study. The sensor consists of a proof mass, four flexible 
springs, four sensing capacitors that are composed of many sensing beams, and four shock-stoppers. 
SCS may exist underneath the metal-oxide multi-layers. For CMOS MEMS processes, the thickness 
of the metal-oxide multi-layers is specified by the standard CMOS processes. Further modification 
to this quantity is quite limited. It is the underlying SCS that allows us to flexibly change its 
thickness so as to control the overall mechanical property of the sensor structure. Figures 2(c) and 
15 
 
212121
4
2
2
21
3
221
2
2
2
1212
3
121
4
1
2
1
)(6
464
hhhhEE
hEhhEEhhEEhhEEhE
ROP



              (2) 
If h2 is much larger than h1, equation 2 reduces to 
ThE
hE
ROP


)(6 2111
2
22
                                         (3) 
It can be seen that the vertical curling depends heavily on the thickness of the silicon layer and not 
on beam width. Larger h2 leads to larger ROP, i.e. less curling. Thick crystalline silicon layer can 
suppress out-of-plane curling. 
The in-plane thermal bending moment MIP of the modeled beam shown in figure 2(d) can be 
similarly derived to be  

Alox
Alox
Alox
IP
EE
wh
ww
E
w
E
w
E
w
E
w
hM
11
1
42
)
2
()
2
(
)
2
()
2
(
)
2
()
2
( 2
1
1





              (4) 
where ε=(αAl-αox)ΔT. Normally, Eox=EAl=70 Gpa. Therefore, the neutral axis for lateral bending 
locates in the middle of the beam width, and the stiffness ∑ of the beam can be expressed as 
1212
3
2
3
1 whE
wh
E Siox 
                                        (5) 
Hence, the radius of curvature RIP for in-plane curling is 

1
)1(
3
21212
1
2
3
2
3
1
h
h
E
Ew
M
wh
E
wh
E
R
ox
Si
IP
Siox
IP 


                  (6) 
Unlike out-of-plane curling, the degree of in-plane curling depends on beam width. Wider beams 
have less lateral bending. Also, thicker silicon layer (larger h2) increases the beam stiffness and 
leads to less in-plane curling. 
Although thicker crystalline silicon layer is desired for better thermal stability of beams, the 
attainable thickness is limited. One needs to consider the designed small gap distance between two 
beams and the aspect ratio achievable by the etching process. 
 
FABRICATION PROCESS  
 
The process for fabricating the CMOS MEMS capacitive accelerometer with a thick SCS 
layer is described as following: The on-chip CMOS sensing circuit of accelerometer was first 
fabricated and the MEMS region was surrounded by metal layers, as shown in figure 3(a). Wet 
etching was used to etch through the sacrificial metal layers while the sensing electrodes were 
protected by dielectric films (figure 3(b)). The next step was a front-side DRIE to etch away some 
of the exposed silicon (figure 3(c)). Unlike conventional approaches with metal masks, the top 
oxide layer acted as the mask layer to protect the metal sensing electrodes during this DRIE 
procedure. Metal pads and interconnections are also protected by the oxide. Therefore, the plasma 
17 
 
 
Figure 4. Cross-sectional SEM images of the capacitive MEMS sensors: (a) With a thick silicon 
layer; (b) Without silicon layer. 
 
 
Figure 5. Measured output voltage values under zero acceleration for the accelerators: (a) With an 
SCS layer in the MEMS structure; (b) Without an SCS layer in the MEMS structure. 
 
To examine the thermal stability issue, the accelerator output voltage value under zero 
acceleration was monitored with the ambient temperature ranging from 0 
o
C to 70 
o
C. Figure 5 
shows the measured results. Originally, the output voltage value at room temperature (20 
o
C) was 
designed to be 1.5 V. But the manufactured samples showed unavoidable offsets. For the accelerator 
with a 50 µm thick silicon layer in the MEMS sensor structure, the room temperature output voltage 
was able to be calibrated back to a value of 1.44 V by the on-chip digital offset-trimming circuit. On 
the other hand, the offset of the accelerator without silicon layer was too large to compensate. The 
best compensated room temperature output voltage value for this sample was only 0.77 V, after 
trimming. This phenomenon implies that the MEMS sensor structure in this sample might contain 
much more inherent curling than the other sample. This is not surprising since, without an 
underlying silicon layer, the degree of out-of-plane curling in this sample is solely determined by 
the metal-oxide multi-layers and the curling radius of curvature can be calculated to be much larger 
than the one in the other sample. It is observed from figure 5 that the accelerator with a silicon layer 
出席國際會議報告 
徐永珍教授 
國立清華大學電子工程研究所 
2011/12 
 
 
會議名稱: 
The 2011 Materials Research Society Fall Meeting (2011 MRS Fall Meeting). 
會議時間、地點: 
 November 27 - December 2, 2011 
 Hynes Convention Center and Sheraton Hotel, Boston, Massachusetts, USA 
會議緣起、組織、主辦單位、主題、參加人員: 
美國材料研究學會(Materials Research Society, MRS)每年舉辦兩次最大型的會議，一
次在春季，於舊金山舉辦；一次在秋季，於波士頓舉行。這兩個研討會可以說是材料研究
學界最重要的盛會，雖然不是單一領域的最深入探討的研討會，卻是涵蓋領域最廣、參加
人數最多、訊息交換最頻繁、還伴隨最多廠商參展的研討會。今年秋季會議 5800 名與會
者來自全世界 57 個國家，從 6200 篇投稿的摘要中選出 3000 篇做口頭報告、2400 篇做壁
報發表，接著再做論文投稿。口頭報告的錄取率為 48%，算是中等。今年的秋季會議共有
46 個 Technical Sessions，領域涵蓋六大群組: 
 Energy and the Environment 
 Functional Materials 
 Nanomaterials 
 Biomaterials 
 Materials Exploration 
 Frontiers of Materials Research 
雖然表面上看起來分了六大群組，但其實這麼眾多的論文又幾乎清一色與能源(energy)和
生物(bio)兩大應用領域相關，所以嚴格說起來應該是只有兩大群組。由此足見當今世界各
國研究經費擺放的重點領域，都是在能源和生物兩大塊，而材料研究則為推動這兩個應用
領域進步的一個重要環節。 
領域做結合。國外在材料技術研究上樣多量也多，但是真正能落實系統化應用的例
子並不多。我國在半導體、IC 領域的學術、技術能力還是位居世界領先群中，因此
利於整合應用。 
 隨著 SoC 的高度成熟發展以及 nanotechnology 的興起，今天很多電子系統的
performance/cost bottleneck 的成因已經不在 IC 設計，而是回到材料、IC 製造技術、
封裝技術、modeling for design、異質系統結合…等。 
 會議中與來自世界各國的學者直接的面對面互相交流，彼此分享自己的研究結果與
想法，這樣的過程對於釐清並取捨未來的研究重點與方向有很大的幫助。另外藉由
參與此研討會的機會而認識了一些人，對於未來的合作交流提供了一個管道。 
感謝資助: 
非常感謝國科會與國立清華大學提供部分的旅費資助，使本人能夠順利參與 2011 
MRS Fall Meeting 盛會。 
 
附錄: 
論文接受通知暨大會邀請函與論文附錄於後。 
Method for Achieving CMOS MEMS Accelerometers with Excellent Built-in Thermal 
Stability and Reduced Charge Damage 
 
Klaus Y. J. Hsu and Siew Seong Tan 
Institute of Electronics Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, ROC 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Capacitive CMOS MEMS sensors are usually defined by anisotropic dry etching processes 
(RIE and DRIE). These processes can provide clean and vertical sidewall geometry. However, 
during the dry-etching processes, charges are added to the gate electrodes of the on-chip MOSFET’s 
through metal pads and micro-structures, and the voltage may be raised to the level of breaking 
down the gate oxide, which leads to large leakage current and fails the circuit. On another hand, the 
thin spring beams in capacitive CMOS MEMS accelerometers suffer from in-plane curling and 
out-of-plane curling caused by stress gradient. Furthermore, the stress in the layers of MEMS 
structure is a function of temperature. Therefore, the in-plane curling and out-of-plane curling vary 
with temperature, leading to varying electrode coupling area in the sensing beams. This in turn 
causes variation in the sensitivity and the DC offset of sensors, meaning that usually the thermal 
stability of CMOS MEMS capacitive accelerometers is very poor. To cope with these problems, this 
work develops a new wafer-level post-CMOS process for fabricating thermally stable capacitive 
accelerometers. The resultant MEMS structures have high aspect ratio (e.g. 2-2.5 μm gaps versus 57 
μm depth) and are insensitive to residual stress and temperature change. Excellent thermal stability 
was achieved intrinsically by making the crystalline Si layer in the sensors thick. Moreover, this 
process totally avoids the charge damage problem during the dry-etching procedure. For 
demonstration, an accelerometer sensor was fabricated by using the proposed process and was 
integrated with an on-chip sensing circuit in commercial 0.35 μm 2P4M CMOS process. High 
detection sensitivity of 595 mV/g and very low thermal variation of 1.68 mg/°C were successfully 
achieved.  
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
ue to enormous economic benefit, CMOS MEMS system-on-a-chip’s (SoC’s) have been 
extensively fabricated for various applications. In 1996, a surface MEMS process after standard 
CMOS process was proposed to produce CMOS MEMS capacitive sensors [1]. A schematic 
representation of the resultant MEMS sensor structure by this approach is shown in figure 1. The 
sensor structure is composed of the metal-oxide multi-layers readily existed in standard CMOS 
technology. The silicon under the multi-layers is etched away. And the minimum beam widths and 
gaps can be scaled with the CMOS technology.  
D 
2(d) show two simplified structural models of beams for us to get first-order estimate on 
out-of-plane (vertical) curling and in-plane (lateral) curling, respectively. For simplicity, the 
moments for out-of-plane bending and in-plane bending are assumed to be produced independently. 
For out-of-plane curling, a simple oxide-on-Si bi-material beam model is considered. The difference 
between the TCE’s of oxide and silicon produces vertical bending moment. For in-plane curling, the 
top layer of the modeled beam is assumed to be composed in half of oxide and in half of aluminum. 
In reality, this worst case can be caused by the manufacturing misalignment of embedded metal 
layers. The difference between the TCE’s of adjacent oxide and aluminum produces lateral bending 
moment. 
When there is a temperature change ΔT, a misfit strain ε is developed for two different 
materials. The value of the strain is given by ε=(α1-α2)ΔT, where α1 and α2 are the TCE’s of the two 
materials. For a bi-material beam, the two materials are bonded together and therefore the misfit 
strain transforms into a bending moment M to make the beam curl. The out-of-plane 
 
Figure 2. (a) Top view of a CMOS MEMS capacitive accelerometer sensor structure. (b) 
Cross-sectional view along the spring and the shock-stopper (line A’-A). (c) Simplified layer model 
of beams for estimating out-of-plane curling. (d) Simplified layer model of beams for estimating 
in-plane curling. 
 
 thermal bending moment MOP of the beam shown in figure 2(c) can be derived as [5] 
 

2211
221121
2 EhEh
EhEhwhh
MOP



                                  (1) 
where w is the beam width, and E1 and E2 are the Young’s moduli and h1 and h2 the layer 
thicknesses of the two layers, respectively. The radius of curvature ROP for the out-of-plane curling 
is proportional to the beam stiffness [5] and inversely proportional to MOP. Therefore, ROP can be 
further derived as 
adds no charge to damage the gates of on-chip MOSFET’s. The silicon wafer was then bonded to a 
glass substrate to protect the mechanical structure, and back-side DRIE was carried out to release 
the mechanical structure (figures 3(d)-(e)). Afterwards, the front-side bonding pad region was 
exposed by sawing the glass substrate (figure 3(f)). Finally, an RIE process removed the dielectric 
film on top of the top metal to form the bonding pads (figure 3(g)). During this process, the 
mechanical structure was protected by the glass cover. 
 
 
Figure 3. Proposed fabrication steps for CMOS MEMS capacitive accelerometers. 
 
EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS  
 
To verify the effectiveness of using the SCS layer, two kinds of CMOS MEMS 
accelerometers in standard TSMC 0.35 μm 2P4M CMOS process were implemented and 
characterized. One contains a capacitive MEMS sensor without the SCS layer. This sensor was 
fabricated by using the post-CMOS process described in [1]. The other kind contains a sensor with 
a 50 µm thick silicon layer. It was fabricated by using the wafer-level, double-sided post-CMOS 
process described in the previous section. Figure 4 shows the cross-sectional scanning electron 
microscope (SEM) images of the released MEMS structures of the two kinds of samples. Each and 
every MEMS sensor was integrated monolithically with an identical CMOS sensing circuit. The 
output voltage of the sensing circuit varies proportionally with the value of acceleration. 
 
shows much less change in the output voltage value as the temperature changes. The variation 
behavior is very linear and the magnitude of variation rate is 1 mV/
o
C, which is equivalent to an 
acceleration drift of 1.68 mg/
o
C only. It can be easily compensated in application systems. On the 
contrary, the accelerator without silicon layer is thermally unstable (about 40 mg/
o
C) and the 
behavior is more nonlinear. This verifies that the 50 µm thick crystalline silicon layer can efficiently 
suppress curling and enhance the thermal stability of the capacitive MEMS sensor structure. Also, 
the proposed process efficiently solved the conventional charge damage problem during the 
front-side dry etching steps. In all the tens of fabricated test chips, no leakage current at the I/O 
electrodes was observed. Furthermore, the sensitivity of the accelerator with a 50 µm thick silicon 
layer was measured to be 595 mV/g, and the overall noise floor was as low as 50 μg/Hz1/2. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
In conclusion, the curling phenomenon in capacitive CMOS MEMS sensors was analyzed in 
this paper. It was experimentally demonstrated that using thick silicon layers in capacitive CMOS 
MEMS sensors is very efficient in suppressing beam curling and enhancing device thermal stability. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 
 The partial financial support of the National Science Council of Taiwan, ROC and from the 
National Tsing Hua University is acknowledged. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
1. G. K. Fedder, S. Santhanam, M. L. Reed, S. C. Eagle, D. F. Guillou, M. S.–C. Lu, and L. R. 
Carley, Sens. Actuators A 57, 103-110 (1996). 
2. H. Luo, G. Zhang, G. K. Fedder, and L. R. Carley, J. Microelectromech. Syst. 11, 188-195 
(2002). 
3. G. Zhang, H. Xie, L. E. de Rosset, and G. K. Fedder, Tech. Dig. 12th IEEE Int. Conf. Micro 
Electro Mechanical System (MEMS ’99), 606-611 (1999). 
4. H. Lakdawala and G. K. Fedder, J. Micromech. Microeng. 14, 559-566 (2004). 
5. T. W. Clyne, Key Engineering Materials (Switzerland) 116-117, 307-330 (1996). 
 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：徐永珍 計畫編號：100-2221-E-007-029- 
計畫名稱：標準 SiGe BiCMOS 製程下光偵測器特性研究及其應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
