 2
中文摘要 
本研究中，我們目標是發掘在地理上接近且持續一段時間的物件群組。根據這些移動物件
的空間-時間資訊，去找出它們的群組資訊，我們稱這過程為「群體型態探勘」。這類研究
近期由新加坡的研究學者及主持人共同提出。先前的研究視這些移動物件的軌跡資料為同
步時間序列的位置資訊，並且提出演算法去找出有效的群體型態，群體型態中的成員在整
個時間區間，通常會彼此靠近。然而，這樣的問題定義有下列兩點缺失： 
1. 一個群組內的成員可能只在某些週期性的時間區間內靠在一起。例如說一些移動物件
群組可能只有在每月的第一天是有效的，但如考慮整體時間，卻非有效的。 
2. 一個物件的位置可能含有某種程度上的不確定性，這些不確定性可能導因於不同種類
的位置感應器和測量時不同的地理環境所致。若忽略位置資料的不精確性，也許會導
致發掘出錯誤的群組型態。 
本計畫即提出方法來解決上述的兩個問題。其中我們是結合時間曆型態來解決第一個問
題，稱為時間曆移動物件群體型態探勘，目前研究成果已寫成一篇論文投至 2007 
International Conference on Mobile Data Management （MDM2007）國際會議。第二個問題
我們則採用 Kalman Filter 的最佳化決定一個移動物件的位置資訊，並提出演算法來發掘
群體型態，目前研究成果已寫成一篇論文投至 2007 Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining （PAKDD2007）國際會議。 
Abstract 
In this research, we are interested in discovering groups of users such that users in the same group 
are geographically close to one another for significant amounts of time. Finding such grouping 
information of mobile users, based on the spatio-temporal distances among them, is known as 
“Group patterns mining,” which was recently proposed by a collaborative research involving 
researchers in Singapore and the PI. The previous research viewed the movement data of an 
object as a synchronous time series of locations and proposed algorithms to identify valid group 
patterns whose members often stay close during the entire time period. This problem definition, 
however, has the following two pitfalls: 
 
1. Members of a given group may stay close only during some cyclic time period. For 
example, some mobile group may be valid only on the first day of each month and become 
invalid if the entire time spectrum has to be considered.  
2. The locations of an object may incur a certain degree of uncertainty due to the different 
types of location sensors used and the different places at which the measurements are 
conducted. Ignoring the possible inaccuracy of location data may result in the discovery of 
invalid group patterns. 
 
In this project, we address the above two problems. We have proposed solutions to cope with the 
first problem by considering calendar patterns while discovering mobile group patterns, known as 
calendar-based temporal group patterns. The research results have been submitted to 2007 
International Conference on Mobile Data Management (MDM2007). For the second problem, we 
applied Kalman filter to optimally (and probabilistically) determine the location of a moving 
 4
1. Introduction 
Group knowledge of different sorts is very useful to many of our business and personal activities. 
Studies on animal behaviors by ecologists suggest that animal groups play an important role in 
keeping the prosperity of their species. Marketing research shows that peer pressure and group 
conformity can affect the (buying) behaviors of individuals. In the business world, with a good 
knowledge of the groups a customer belongs to, one can derive common buying interests among 
customers, develop group-specific pricing models and marketing strategies, and provide 
personalized services. With the emergence and maturity of wireless communication (e.g., Wi-Fi, 
3G, and GPRS) and location tracking technologies (e.g, RFIDs), it is now possible and indeed 
imperative to collect and analyze customers’ movement data in a physical store. Such movement 
data enable a new type of analysis on customer shopping behaviors that cannot be performed 
before, including shopping partners’ identification, shopping cart tracking, and customers’ aisle 
behavior [3]. 
In this research, we extend our previous work in deriving group knowledge of users using 
their spatio-temporal information [5, 11, 12]. The groups derived from these movement data have 
the following characteristics: 
− Physical proximity between group members: The group members are expected to be physically 
close to one another when they act as a group. Such characteristics are common among many 
types of groups, e.g., shopping pals, game partners, etc. 
− Temporal proximity between group members: The group members are expected to stay 
together for some meaningful duration when they act as a group. Such characteristic 
distinguishes an ad hoc cluster of people who are occasionally physically close from a group of 
people who come together for some planned activity. 
 
One important extension to mobile group mining is to take into account the temporal 
constraints. For example, a set of users may not be co-located long enough if we consider the 
entire movement history. However, if we examine only the part of their movement data 
constrained by some given time pattern, we may discover that they often stay close to one another. 
In this case, the mobile group pattern should be considered valid in accordance to the time pattern. 
As an example, suppose you are planning on some customer promotion that takes effect on every 
Wednesday and Friday, the information about mobile groups that often show up on every Friday 
or Wednesday may prove to be useful. The above observation suggests that it is imperative to 
discover mobile groups that are valid with some given time patterns.  
Since the concept of association rules was first introduced in [1], there have been many 
efforts that incorporate temporal patterns in finding association rules, referred to as temporal 
association rule mining. The problem of mining cyclic association rules was studied in [9]. An 
example cyclic association rule is (day = Monday)∪X→Y. In this case, the support of this rule is 
the ratio of the fraction of all transactions that occurred on Mondays and contain X and Y to all 
transactions that occur on Monday. Similarly, the confidence of this rule is the ratio of the 
fraction of all transactions that occurred on Mondays and contain X and Y to the fraction of all 
 6
basic time interval. The weight of g in ti is defined as: 
N
s
tgweight
n
j
j
i
∑
=≡ 1),(
 
If weight(g , ti) exceeds a user specified threshold min_wei, we say the mobile group g is valid in 
ti. 
Given a calendar pattern c = <cn, cn-1,…, c1>, a block of the i’th granularity of c, 1 ≤ i ≤ n, is 
a calendar pattern  <dn, dn-1,…di, ci-1, …, c1> , where cj = * or cj = dj ∈ Gj, i≤j≤n. Consider the 
same calendar schema in our previous example and the calendar pattern c = <*, 12, ∗, 8>, the 
blocks of c of the 3rd granularity (i.e., month) include <1995, 12, ∗, 8>, <1996, 12, ∗, 8>, <1997, 
12, ∗, 8>, <1998, 12, ∗, 8>, and <1999, 12, ∗, 8>. The concept of block can be used to define an 
important concept called flexible calendar pattern. For example, consider the calendar schema 
(date, section, hour), where a section may take the value of “morning,” “afternoon,” or “night,” 
each consisting of 8 hours in a day. When we say a group of people often stay together on 
Saturday night, we don’t really mean that these people always stay close on every hours of every 
Saturday. Instead, if these people stay close together for a certain number of hours on a Saturday 
night (e.g., 2 hours), we pronounce them to be close on that Saturday night. Also, if there 
sufficient number of Saturday nights in which these people were close together (e.g., half of the 
total Saturday nights), we can say that “these people” often stay together on Saturday night.” In 
this example, each Saturday night is regarded as a block, whereas each hour is a basic time 
interval. To capture this scenario, we introduce the concept of flexible calendar patterns. 
A flexible calendar pattern is a 3-tuple (<cn, cn-1, …,ci,…, c1> , i , block_ratio ), where <cn, 
cn-1, …,ci,…, c1> is a calendar pattern under a calendar schema R = (fn: Gn, fn-1: Gn-1,.., f1: G1), 
1≤ i≤n, and block_ratio is a fraction. A mobile group g is valid in a block of the ith granularity b if 
the proportion of the number of basic time intervals covered by b in which g is valid is no less 
than block_ratio. For a calendar pattern c = (<cn, cn-1, …, ci,…, c1> , i , block_ratio), we are 
interested in blocks of <cn, cn-1, …, ci,…, c1> at the ith granualrity, or simply the blocks of c. A 
mobile group g is valid under a flexible calendar pattern c if the ratio of blocks of c in which g is 
valid is no less than a threshold value min_match_ratio. We call (g, c) a valid group pattern if the 
mobile group g is valid under the calendar pattern c. 
In the example shown in Section 1, we are interested in finding all mobile groups who often 
show up together in more than five days in December 2006. Thus, the calendar pattern of interest 
can be specified as (<2006, 12, *, *>, 2, 0.08), which states that the blocks of interests are days in 
December and a group of people g is considered a valid group on a given day in December if g is 
a valid group in at least 24×0.08 ≈ 2 hours on that day. If we set min_match_ratio = 0.16, we 
pronounce (g, c) to be valid if g is valid group in at least 31×0.16 ≈ 5 days. 
Given a set of flexible calendar patterns of a common calendar schema, a set of timestamped 
objects' movement data, and the user-specified thresholds max_dis, min_dur, min_weight, and 
min_match_ratio, the calendar-based mobile group mining problem is to find out all valid group 
patterns. 
 8
the number of basic time intervals of b that are on or after ti, and N_I(b) is the total number 
of basic time intervals covered in a block b 
 
Lemma 3: Let b be a block of a calendar pattern c. For a group pattern (g, c), (g, c) is valid 
only if  
 (g, c).b_count + remaining-block(c, b) ≥ min-match-ratio × N_B(c), where (g, c).b_count is 
the number of blocks before the current basic time interval in which (g, c) is valid, and 
remaining-block(c, b) is the number of blocks of c that are on or after b.  
 
Lemma 2 and 3 implies that for a valid group pattern (g, c) and the current basic time 
interval ti covered by c such that g is strong in ti, both the inequalities (g, c).i_count + 
remaining_int(b, ti) ≥ c.block_ratio × N_I(b) and (g, c).b_count + remaining-block(c, b) ≥ 
min-match-ratio × N_B(c) must hold. That is, a candidate group pattern (g, c) in ti can be 
discarded if the accumulative support by assuming g is valid in every subsequent block of c is 
less than min_match_ratio or g is valid in every remaining basic time intervals of the current 
block of c, is less than block_ratio. So, in our algorithm, we can further eliminate some candidate 
k-group patterns of ti before searching its object movement data, D(ti). Here at each iteration k, 
for a basic time interval ti, we need to compute the set of its strong group patterns Sk(ti). It can be 
done by the following three steps: 
 
1. Derive the candidate k-group patterns of ti, Ck(ti) by using Sk-1(ti)  
2. Prune Ck(ti) using Lemma 2 and 3. 
3. Validate the candidate k-groups in Ck(ti) by scanning D(ti) to compute the initial Sk(ti). That 
is, Sk(ti) = {(g, c): (g, c)∈ Ck(ti), g is valid in ti}. 
 
At the end of k’th iteration, we compute the set of valid k-groups, Gk(c), for each flexible 
calendar pattern. The set of valid k-group patterns, Gk = {(g, c): ∃c∈C(R), g∈ Gk(c)}, is used to 
further revise Sk(ti) for each basic time interval ti as follows: Sk(ti) = Sk(ti) ∩ {(g, c): c covers ti, (g, 
c)∈Gk}.The detailed algorithm of CAGP is omitted for brevity. 
We have also extended the VG-Growth proposed in [11] to incorporate calendar patterns, 
resulting in a new algorithm Calendar-based VG-Growth, abbreviated as CVG-Growth. Due to 
space limitation, it is not described in the report.  
4 Performance evaluation 
In this section, we provide the results of evaluating our proposed algorithms using synthetic data. 
The implementation was done on a Pentium 4 PC with 2GB memory running Windows XP. 
 
4.1 Experimental Design 
 10
min_match_ratio=0.5. First, we vary min_wei and observe the differences of execution times of 
the three approaches. The result is shown in Figure 1. 
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
min_wei
ex
ec
uti
on
 tim
e(s
ec
) CAGP
Naive-
CAGP
Brute-force
 
Figure 1: Execution time of CAGP, naïve-CAGP, and brute-force CAGP under different min_wei  
 
It is observed that CAGP always outperforms naive-CAGP, and both CAGP and 
naïve-CAGP outperforms brute−force CAGP, especially when min_wei becomes smaller. This is 
because when min_wei is small, there will be more candidate k-groups generated at each iteration 
k. The naive-CAGP approach applied the strategy of maintaining a strong group, thereby 
generating fewer candidates. The superior performance of CAGP over naive-CAGP is due to the 
application of two properties of candidate pruning as described in Lemma 2 and 3. This 
experiment demonstrates the usefulness of the pruning techniques used by CAGP. In fact, we 
expected that when min_wei is smaller, the difference on execution times of the three algorithms 
will be more significant. However, due to the computing power limitation, we set a smaller basic 
time interval, which restrain the range of setting smaller min_dur. As a result, experiments with 
min_wei smaller than the quotient of min_dur to the size of a basic time interval (3/60 = 0.05 in 
our example) will not impact the validation process and therefore have the same execution time.  
We further compared the performance of CAGP and naive-CAGP method by varying 
different parameters to examine their impacts. In Figure 2, we show the experimental results of 
varying the number of user-specified calendar patterns. As expected, the execution time of either 
method increases with the number of flexible calendar patterns. It can be observed that CAGP is 
always more efficient than naïve method, and with the number of flexible calendar patterns 
increases, the difference becomes more significant. This is because more calendar patterns will 
lead to more candidate group patterns in each basic time interval, and the pruning technique will 
erase more candidate group patterns before scanning the database. Thus, we conclude that the 
effect of pruning is more significant when there are more flexible calendar patterns. 
0
500
1000
1500
2000
1 2 3 4
number of calendar patterns
ex
ec
uti
on
 tim
e
CAGP
Naive CAGP
 
 12
5. S. Y. Hwang, Y. H. Liu, J. K. Chiu and E. P. Lim, “Mining Mobile Group Patterns: A 
Trajectory-based Approach,” In Proceedings of the 9th Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining (PAKDD05), Hanoi, Vietnam, 2005. 
6. Y. Li, P. Ning, X. S. Wang, and S. Jajodia, “Discovering Calendar-based Temporal 
Association Rules,” Data and Knowledge Engineering, pp. 192-218, 2003. 
7. M. Niezette and J. Stevenne. “An efficient symbolic representation of periodic time,” In 
Proceeding of the International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, 
LNCS(752), pp. 161–168, 1993. 
8. P. Ning, X. S. Wang and S. Jajodia “An Algebraic Representation of Calendars,” Annals of 
Mathematics and Artificial Intelligence 36: pp. 5–38, 2002. 
9. B. Özden, S. Ramaswamy, and A. Sillberschatz, “Cyclic association rules,” In Proceedings of 
the 14th International Conference on Data Engineering, pp. 412-421, Feb 1998. 
10.S. Ramaswamy, S. Mahajan, and A. Sillberschatz, “On the discovery of interesting patterns in 
association rules,” In Proceedings of the 1998 International Conference on Very Large Data 
Base, pp. 368-379, Aug 1998. 
11.Y. Wang, E. P. Lim, and S. Y. Hwang, “On Mining Group Patterns of Mobile Users,” In 
Proceedings Of the 14th International Conference on Database and Expert Systems 
Applications (DEXA 2003), pp. 1-5, 2003. 
12.Y. Wang, E. P. Lim, and S. Y. Hwang, “Efficient Group Pattern Mining Using Data 
Summarization,” In Proceedings of the 9th International Conference on Database Systems for 
Advanced Application (DASFAA2004), Seoul, Korea, 2004. 
 14
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  √ 可技術移轉                                      日期：94 年 10 月 31 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：群體移動型態的探勘 
計畫主持人： 黃三益        
計畫編號： NSC 94-2213-E-110-029 
學門領域：資訊 
技術/創作名稱 考量時間曆和不確定性的移動群體型態之探勘 
發明人/創作人 黃三益 
中文： 
本研究的動機在於觀察到結伴同行的伙伴常有類似的興趣，並顯示
出類似的行為。找出這一群一群的同伴不僅有利於商業行銷的進
行，社會學家或行為分析家也可進一步分析這些同伴的背景，找出
社會網絡的模式。由於無線科技的進步，具有無線網路功能的移動
設備已被廣泛使用，配備這些移動設備的物件的位置和時間資料已
可以被記錄下來，我們稱之為移動資料。本技術針對這些移動資
料，找出以時間性為基礎一群一群經常一起移動的物件，稱為移動
群組型態。此外，我們容許這些物件的位置資訊可能有誤差和偵測
不到的時候。 
 
 技術說明 
英文： 
This research is built upon the belief that customer’s companion groups 
and their (purchasing) behavior are highly correlated. The information 
about companion groups can be directly used for marketing products 
and indirectly used by sociologists and behaviorists for analyzing the 
underlying principles of group companies. With the advances of 
wireless technologies, it is now feasible and inexpensive to record 
location information of moving objects, which form a movement 
database. With the movement database, our research aims to identify 
the set of object groups that frequently move together during some 
specific time intervals, or called moving object group patterns. In this 
project, we incorporate calendar patterns and allow errors in locatin 
data to mine the mobile group patterns. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
電信服務業和其他有客戶移動資訊的產業（比如採用 RFID 的大賣
場）。 
附件二 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                             年    月    日 
報告人姓名 黃三益  
 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立中山大學資訊管理系教授 
 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
Aug. 21-24, 2005 
Chicago, U.S.A. 
本會核定
補助文號
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)第十一屆 ACM 資料探勘和知識發現國際研討會 
 (英文) The Eleventh ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining (SIGKDD 2005) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 利用獨立分類器來預估錯過的實際正例 
 (英文) Estimating missed actual positives using independent classifiers 
附件三
 
