troller design from the experience of human ex-
perts is the most popular control strategy from
the viewpoint of realistic engineer applications.
However, the main problem in the design of a
fuzzy logic controller is that both the inference
table and the knowledge base are fixed after they
are chosen, and they depend fully on an expert’s
knowledge or the experience of a skilled opera-
tor. Procyk and Mamdani (1979) first proposed
a self-organizing fuzzy controller (SOFC) to solve
this problem. This control strategy involves on-
line learning, rather than human thinking, to
establish control rules by online learning, sim-
plifying the procedures for designing fuzzy logic
controller. Afterward, Shao (1988) and Zhang
and Edmunds (1992) developed modified learning
methods to simplify further the SOFC. The learn-
ing scheme was based on a performance decision
table, the determination of which is as difficult
as designing a fuzzy rule table. The output error
and the error change in the system were applied
directly to adjust the linguistic fuzzy rule table
(Yang 1992) rather than the performance deci-
sion table. The fuzzy rule table of this SOFC can
be begun without any initial fuzzy rules. It avoids
the difficulty of designing a fuzzy logic controller
in finding an appropriate membership function
and fuzzy rules. Sun et al. (2003) proposed a
least-mean-square (LMS) adaptive fuzzy control
algorithm for a vehicle’s active suspension sys-
tem to evaluate control performance of the sys-
tem; this control algorithm can adjust the rec-
tification factor of the fuzzy controller with the
LMS, so it not only reflects the advantage of fuzzy
logic in the nonlinearity system but also improves
the disadvantage of common fuzzy methods, de-
pending strongly on the experience. Huang and
Lin (2003) employed an SOFC to control the po-
sition and acceleration oscillatory amplitudes of
the sprung mass in the suspension system owing
to the rough road variation for evaluating control
performance of the system. This SOFC adopted
parameters of the fixed learning rate and the
constant weighting distribution value according
to experimental tests obtained to regulate fuzzy
control rules online. The SOFC can self-adjust
fuzzy rules from initially no fuzzy rules accord-
ing to the dynamic characteristics of the system.
This learning ability eliminates the requirement
for understanding the dynamic behavior of the
system and will overcome the difficulty of design-
ing fuzzy control rules. These effects also reduce
the computational time to regulate the rules ta-
ble. Although the SOFC (Yang 1992, Huang
and Lin 2003) possesses superior learning capa-
bility for controlling complicated nonlinear with
uncertain systems, appropriate parameters of the
learning rate and the weighting distribution in
the SOFC are difficultly chosen and these param-
eters are fixed after they have been decided. Un-
fortunately, inappropriately selecting the weight-
ing distribution value or the learning rate or both
in the SOFC will substantially affect the system
output response so that the system becomes un-
stable. Hence this study develops a new modi-
fying self-organizing fuzzy controller (NMSOFC)
to solve the above problem, employing two tra-
ditional fuzzy controllers to individually regulate
parameters of the learning rate and the weight-
ing distribution in the NMSOFC according to the
system current error and the error change, to de-
termine a suitable learning rate and an appro-
priate weighting distribution value rather than
from experimental tests obtained (Huang and Lin
2003), to achieve a fast transient response and en-
hance the system stability. Most work in this field
involves computer simulations of simple vehicle
suspension models. This investigation studies ex-
perimentally an NMSOFC for an active suspen-
sion control system.
2. System description
Fig. 1 presents a photograph of a quarter-
car active suspension system that was designed
and constructed in our laboratory to evaluate
the performance of the proposed controller based
upon the system dynamic response. The system
comprises a vehicle body (sprung mass), a tire,
two springs with guiding pillars, two dampers,
the first and the second hydraulic cylinders, and
so on. The first optical linear scale and an ac-
celerometer were installed on the vehicle body
to measure the displacement and the accelera-
tion dynamic effect of the sprung mass, respec-
tively; the second optical linear scale was installed
on the support frame to measure the displace-
ment of the tire shaft or the unsprung mass; the
third optical linear scale also was installed on the
rod end of the second hydraulic cylinder to mea-
sure the movement displacement of the rod for
this cylinder. The first hydraulic cylinder was in-
stalled between the vehicle body and the support
frame; the first servo valve was used to adjust
the hydraulic flowrate for controlling this cylin-
der’s action and generated an active control force
to suppress the vibration of the suspension sys-
tem when the disturbance generated by the road
profiles was input to the system. One end of the
second hydraulic cylinder was fixed to the base of
the system and its other rod end was connected
to the frame of the roller, enabling the roller
to be in continuous contact with the tire. This
set-up was used to simulate the disturbance of
road profiles: The control signal is excited using
the second servo valve to regulate the hydraulic
- 2 -
at a k -step sampling interval. The voltage differ-
ence ∆u(k) of the servo-valve control input will
yield a deviation in the output system position
∆y(k). If the deviations ∆y(k) and ∆y˙(k) are
small, then the relationship between the control
input and the corresponding output deviation is
∆y(k) = M∆u(k) and ∆y˙(k) =
M
T
∆u(k) (2)
where T represents a sampling interval that is
small. If a system at a k -step sampling interval
has a position output error ∆y(k) and an error
change ∆y˙(k), then the theoretical correspond-
ing control input correction values are ∆ue(k) and
∆uec(k), respectively. Then
∆ue(k) =
∆y(k)
M
and ∆uec(k) =
T∆y˙(k)
M
(3)
The system has only one control input u(k), so
the control input correction must be an appro-
priate combination of the above two terms. The
following form for general cases was used;
∆u(k) = (1− ς)∆ue(k) + ς∆uec(k) (4)
where ς is a design parameter which represents
the weighting distribution between ∆ue(k) and
∆uec(k). If the system output y(k) differs greatly
from the desired output yd(k), then a value of
y′(k) between y(k) and yd(k) should be chosen in
the design. Then, the system output y(k) will
slowly approach yd(k) at learning rate γ:
y′(k) = (1− γ)y(k) + γyd(k), 0 < γ < 1 (5)
The system output and the output change devi-
ation thus become
∆y(k) = γ [yd(k)− y(k)] = γe(k) (6)
∆y˙(k) = γe˙(k) =
γ
T
ec(k) (7)
Taking Eqs. (3) and (7) substitution Eq. (4)
yields the correction value of the control input,
∆u(k) =
γ
M
[(1− ς)e(k) + ςec(k)] (8)
The system output error e(k) and the error
change ec(k) are divided into seven fuzzy subsets
with integer values from -6 to +6. In each con-
trol step, the fuzzy input variables - namely the
system output error and the error change excite
two fuzzy subsets of the E and EC universe of
discourse, respectively. The control input u(k) is
derived from the fuzzy rule inference so the four
fuzzy rules will be modified in each control step.
The correction value of each fuzzy rule is propor-
tional to its excitation strength w. The excitation
strength is represented as a triangular member-
ship function, calculates using a linear interpola-
tion algorithm. Then, the control input of the ith
rule is
ui(k + 1) = ui(k) + ∆ui(k)
= ui(k) + weiweci
γ
M
× [(1− ς)e(k)
+ ςec(k)] (9)
The term γ
M
in the above equation can be re-
garded as the correction weighting. In this work,
M is set to one to eliminate the identification pro-
cedure and reduce the computational time during
implementation. The correction weighting is de-
termined only by the learning rate γ. A large
value of γ will introduce a large rule correction
and system output oscillation. This parameter in
the system control influences only the transient
response and does not affect the steady-state per-
formance.
Although an SOFC exhibits online learning
capability, it still cannot solve these problems
of selecting appropriate parameters to specify a
learning rate and a weighting distribution value.
The SOFC can continually modify an inappro-
priate fuzzy rules table into a satisfactory fuzzy
rules table, according to the previously designed
learning algorithm for improving control perfor-
mance; however, for a complicated time-varying
system, the weighting distribution value ς be-
tween ∆ue(k) and ∆uec(k), and the learning rate
γ, influence the dynamic behavior of the system
response for SOFC design. The weighting dis-
tribution value is chosen to be 0.5 to avoid bias
toward ∆ue(k) or ∆uec(k). This choice does not
guarantee that the selected parameter is an ap-
propriate one in SOFC design for improving con-
trol performance. Additionally, choosing a suit-
able learning rate γ for the SOFC is difficult, be-
cause if the learning rate γ is a large in the reg-
ulation of the self-organizing fuzzy learning al-
gorithm, then the rules table will be excessively
modified and the system control command will
vary over such a large range that the system
output response occurs oscillatory phenomenon.
Then, the system is likely to become unstable.
Although an appropriate learning rate γ of the
SOFC can be obtained experimentally or from the
experience of a skilled operator, it is problemat-
ically the fixed after it is selected. This method
considerably limits the dynamic behavior of the
system output response. It cannot specify an ap-
propriate parameter online to improve the control
- 4 -
defuzzify the output variables in this study to at-
tain the accurate objectives for controlling this
system. The above design process yields the fol-
lowing actual control input voltage of the actua-
tor for this traditional fuzzy control system,
u(k) = u(k − 1) + ∆u(k), (12)
where ∆u(k) indicates the voltage increment of
the system on k -step sampling interval. u(k) and
u(k − 1) represent the system control input volt-
ages on k -step and k−1 -step sampling intervals,
respectively.
5. Experimental results
The active hydraulic suspension system has non-
linear dynamic characteristics and uncertainty, so
designing a model-based traditional controller for
controlling this system is difficult. An SOFC
without a mathematical model required was de-
signed and employed to control this complicated
nonlinear suspension system. The SOFC pos-
sesses superior learning capability and can con-
tinually modify the database and control rules
online for controlling the suspension system to
achieve the desired system output response, but
the appropriate parameters of the weighting dis-
tribution and the learning rate in the SOFC are
difficult to select. Therefore, this study devel-
ops a NMSOFC control scheme to overcome the
problem. The NMSOFC control strategy is that
parameters (ς and γ) in the NMSOFC are in-
dividually introduced into the operation of two
traditional fuzzy controllers according to the sys-
tem’s current error status and the error change,
to determine a suitable learning rate and an ap-
propriate weighting distribution value to achieve
a fast transient response, and to enhance the sys-
tem stability.
The proposed NMSOFC was employed to
evaluate control performance of the active hy-
draulic suspension system that compared to use
a SOFC. In order to achieve this purpose, the
following experiments were performed to explore
the effectiveness of the proposed control strategy.
In this study, the learning rate and the weight-
ing distribution value in the SOFC are chosen as
γ = 0.05 and ς = 0.5, respectively. The scal-
ing factors for the system output error, the error
change and the control output membership func-
tions of the two traditional fuzzy controllers for
determining appropriate parameters (γ, ς) in the
NMSOFC were separately chose as


S1γ = 0.05
S2γ = 0.01
S3γ = 0.01
and


S1ς = 0.15
S2ς = 0.05
S3ς = 0.05
.
Tables 1 and 2 list traditional fuzzy control rules
associated with determining appropriate param-
eters of γ and ς, respectively. The sampling fre-
quency in the experiment was 200 Hz during all
control processes.
5.1 Position control of the square wave of
the sprung mass in the suspension sys-
tem
Fig. 5 shows both the system responses of the
position control of the square wave with a 30 mm
amplitude, to compare the control performance
of SOFC with that of NMSOFC. The learning
process of the SOFC clearly requires at least five
learning cycles to improve control performance,
but the NMSOFC needs only one learning cycle
with good control performance. The next system
output response velocity is increased quickly after
the second learning cycle, in spite of the oscilla-
tion of the system output response due to the de-
flection of the tire that occurs when the position
control of the square wave was performed. The
NMSOFC can effectively and quickly overcome
this oscillatory effect and reduce the tracking er-
ror, confirming that the NMSOFC is more robust
than SOFC in terms of control performance asso-
ciated with the position control of square wave.
5.2 Suppressing the vibration and the accel-
eration of the vehicle’s body given a si-
nusoidal road profiles and rotating tires
The hydraulic cylinder of the suspension sys-
tem was driven using a PID controller through a
serve-valve control, to simulate a sinusoidal road
profile with an amplitude of 40 mm. The tire
was also driven using another PID controller, but
through a proportional-valve control to obtain
the desired rotation speed. This set-up repre-
sented the disturbance input of a roadway for vi-
bration control, given a tire speed of 40 km/hr.
Fig. 6(a) plots experimental results concerning
the suppression of the vibration using the SOFC
and the NMSOFC. The dotted line with circu-
lar marks is the system response without control
action; the dashed curve is the system response
with the SOFC; the solid line is the system re-
sponse with the NMSOFC. Both the SOFC and
the NMSOFC for the active suspension system
effectively suppress the amplitude of vibration to
about one-fifth of the original amplitude with-
out control. Fig. 6(b) presents both the sys-
tem output responses to evaluate further the con-
trol performance of the vibration amplitude sup-
pression in the suspension systems using SOFC
- 6 -
zero initial fuzzy rules, and the learning rate and
weighting distribution are difficult to select in
this controller design. This work proposed an
NMSOFC to eliminate the difficulty of selecting
suitable parameters associated with the learning
rate and weighting distribution in the SOFC. The
main motivation for this control strategy is to
apply two traditional fuzzy controllers to finding
two parameters - a learning rate and a weighting
distribution value, instead of the original SOFC
parameters’ which must be determine experimen-
tally or from the experience of skilled operators.
Experimental results indicate that the NMSOFC
outperforms the SOFC in reducing the track-
ing error and quickening the transient response
for the position control with square wave. Ad-
ditionally, both SOFC and NMSOFC outstand-
ingly suppress the oscillation of the sprung mass
and the acceleration of the body of the vehi-
cle, improving the comfort of the ride during the
control process, with or without tire rotation,
as indicated by the experimental results. How-
ever, the NMSOFC exhibits better control per-
formance than does the SOFC. Clearly, NMSOFC
is a good choice for implementation in vehicle ac-
tive suspension systems for improving ride com-
fort. The use of NMSOFC to control a suspen-
sion system can effectively reduce the computa-
tional time, because it requires only two learn-
ing cycles to achieve good control performance,
but whereas the learning algorithm of the SOFC
requires five cycles to perform equally well, and
its performance does not increase in proportion
to the number of learning cycles. This result
also verifies that the NMSOFC not only exhibits
better control performance than presented previ-
ously, but this control scheme also has an effec-
tively lower computational time than the SOFC
during the control process.
References
1. AI-Holou, N., Lahdhiri, T., Joo, D. S., Weaver,
J. and AI-Abbas, F., 2002, Sliding model neu-
ral network inference fuzzy logic control for ac-
tive suspension systems, IEEE Transactions on
Fuzzy Systems, Vol. 10, No. 3, pp. 234-246.
2. Driankov D, Hellendoorn H and Reinfrank
M, 1993, ”An Introduction to fuzzy control,”
Berlin: Springer-Verlag.
3. Huang, S. J. and Lian, R. J., 1996, A com-
bination of fuzzy logic nd neural network al-
gorithms for active vibration control, Proceed-
ings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,
Part I: Journal of Systems and Control Engi-
neering, Vol. 210 pp. 153-167.
4. Huang, S. J. and Lin, W. C., 2003, A self-
organizing fuzzy controller for an active sus-
pension system, Journal of Vibration and Con-
trol, Vol. 9, pp. 1023-1040.
5. Lee, C. C., 1990, Fuzzy logic in control sys-
tems: fuzzy logic - Parts I and II, IEEE Trans-
actions in Systems, Man, Cybernetics, Vol. 20,
pp. 404-435.
6. Ljung, Lennart, 1987, System identification:
theory for the user, Prentice-Hall Information
and System Sciences Series.
7. Maiers, J. and Sherif Y. S., 1985, Application
of fuzzy set theory, IEEE Transactions in Sys-
tems, Man, and Cybernetics, Vol. 15, pp. 175-
189.
8. Mamdani, E. H., 1974, Application of fuzzy al-
gorithms for control of simple dynamic plants,
Proc. IEE, Vol. 12, pp. 1585-1588.
9. Procyk, T. J. and Mamdani, E. H., 1979, A lin-
guistic self-organizing process controller, Auto-
matica, Vol. 15, pp. 15-30.
10. Rao, M. V. C. and Prahlad, V., 1997, A tun-
able fuzzy logic controller for active suspension
system. Fuzzy Sets and Systems, 85, 11-21.
11. Ro, P. I., Kim, C. and Kim, H., 1993, Active
suspension system using fuzzy logic control,
Proceedings of American Control Conference,
pp. 2252-2253.
12. Shao, S., 1988, Fuzzy self-organizing controller
and its application for dynamic process, Fuzzy
Sets and Systems, Vol. 26, pp. 151-164.
13. Sun, J., Yang, Q., Ding, Y. and Zhang, Y.,
2003, LMS adaptive control for vehicle ac-
tive suspension system, Proc. IEEE Intelligent
Transportation Systems, Vol. 2, No. 12-15, pp.
1372-1377.
14. Yang, C. Z., 1992, Design of real-time linguis-
tic self-organizing fuzzy controller, MSc thesis,
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Na-
tional Taiwan University, Taiwan.
15. Yeh, E. C. and Tsao, Y. J., 1994, Fuzzy pre-
view control scheme of active suspension for
tough road, Int. J. Vehicle Des., Vol. 15, No.
1-2, pp. 166-180.
16. Yester, J. L. and McFall, R. H., 1992, Fuzzy
logic controller for active suspension, Proceed-
ings of society of Automative Engineers, paper
P-260, pp. 259-270.
17. Zadeh, L. A., 1965, Fuzzy sets, Information
and Control, Vol. 8, pp. 335-353, 1965.
18. Zhang, B. S. and Edmunds, J. M., 1992, Self-
organizing fuzzy logic controller, Proceedings
IEE-D, Control Theory andApplications, Vol.
139, No. 5, pp. 460-464.
- 8 -
