I目錄
1. 報告內容………………………………………………………………………1
1.1 前言 ………………………………………………………………………1
1.2 研究目的 …………………………………………………………………1
1.3 文獻探討 …………………………………………………………………1
1.4 研究方法 …………………………………………………………………2
1.5 結果與討 …………………………………………………………………5
2. 參考文獻 ……………………………………………………………………6
3. 計畫成果自評 ………………………………………………………………8
2alleviate these shortcomings [3~7]. Wang et al. [3] proposed a self-adaptive contrast enhancement
algorithm based on plateau histogram equalization, while Aviram and Rotman [4] revealed that their
modeled histogram enhancement can considerably improve poor detection performance associated
with nature images. Vichers [5] used histogram equalization to develop a plateau histogram
equalization, and Silverman [6, 7] used histogram projection. These technologies all base on
histogram information. In addition, some non-histogram-based enhancement technologies have
been developed in [8~12].
1.4 研究方法
1.4.1 Test samples of the IR image
In order to validate the proposed approach, two gray-scale IR images are collected as test
samples, as shown in Figs. 1(a) and 2(a). There are 364x244 pixels and 313x210 pixels in the
images, respectively, and each pixel is represented by 8-bits in gray-scale, that is, each pixel has 256
gray levels. Figs. 1(b) and 2(b) represent the histogram of Figs. 1(a) and 2(a), respectively. The test
samples keep several sizes of hot objects in IR images.
(a) (b) (a) (b)
Fig.1 (a) An IR image taken of some people
walking on the street on a rainy day. (b) The
histogram of (a).
Fig. 2 (a) An IR image taken of people
standing on a vehicle, and an airplane in the
sky. (b) The histogram of (a).
1.4.2 A modified histogram equalization (MHE)
In this paper, a MHE with HTF is developed to adaptively and effectively enhance the IR
images. TheMHE with HTF’s most important property is that the enhancement effect on small hot
objects is more than that on large area backgrounds. The MHE with HTF consists of two stages:
adaptive threshold selection and HTF generation. The first stage selects a suitable threshold that
divides the histogram into hot objects and backgrounds. The second stage is based on two different
kinds of information about the histogram, entropy and PDF, to generate two different transfer
functions. One enhances hot objects and the other enhances backgrounds. Then the two functions
are combined into a HTF. The MHE with HTF remedies the inherent limitation of HE. The details
of how to perform MHE are addressed in sections 1.4.2.1 and 1.4.2.2.
1.4.2.1 Adaptive threshold selection
In order to divide the histogram into hot objects and backgrounds for miscellaneous IR images,
an adaptive threshold is needed. Abundant threshold selection methods have been described in the
4function is equal to its slope. Compare Eq. (1) with (3a), and it is clear that the slope of Eq. (3a) is
less than or equal to the transfer function of the HE when the gray-level rk belongs to the
backgrounds. Then Eq. (3b) constructs the transfer function of hot objects. Comparing Eq. (1) with
(3b), it is easy to observe that the slope of Eq. (3b) must be larger than or equal to the slope of Eq.
(1) when the gray-level rk represents the hot objects. Thus, the hot object’s enhanced effect caused
by the HTF is larger, and the background’s is smaller. As a result, the enhancement effect on hot
objects caused by the MHE is larger than or equal to that caused by the HE. On the other hand, the
enhancement effect on backgrounds caused by the MHE is smaller than or equal to that caused by
the HE. This characteristic is especially significant when the hot objects are much smaller than the
backgrounds. Consequently, the MHE with HTF proposed in this paper can alleviate the limitation
of the HE.
In addition, in order to avoid the equalized gray-level of transformed pixels to saturate, the
transformed pixels must be normalized.
1.4.3 Enhancing the power of high spatial frequency
In general, the sensitive wavelength of an IR camera is about 3~5m or 8~14m, which is why
the IR images are robust under a wide range of lighting conditions. The wavelength of visual light,
0.4~0.78m, is much shorter than IR wavelength. The wavelength of IR cameras brings advantages,
but it also introduces certain limitations. The diffraction effects of the lens [21], cause the
modulation transfer function (MTF) Eq. (4) [22]. According to MTF, the spatial cutoff frequency of
IR lens is not as high as that of a visual light lens with the same F-number. The edges or textures of
objects have high spatial frequency in images, but they will be still more obscure in IR images
compared to visual images. This is the limitation of IR images.
Eq. (4) expresses the MTF:
vo= 1/(f/#) (4)
where is the wavelength in millimeters, v0 is the cutoff frequency in cycles per millimeter, and
(f/#) represents F-number defined as the equivalent focal length of the lens divided by the diameter
of the entrance pupil.
We apply the high-boost filter [23] which is a modification of high-pass filter to enhance the
power of high spatial frequency and maintain the information of IR images. The high-boost mask
is shown as Eq. (5a). The IR image I can be processed as Eq. (5b) to enhance the power of the high
spatial frequency. The experimental results addressed in section 1.5.1.2 show the effects of
high-boost filter.
0 -1 0
 = -1 G+4 -1 (5a)
6backgrounds in Fig. 3(d) are decreased and the contrast is compressed, while the gray-levels of
small hot objects are increased and the contrast is spread. The pixel probability of small hot objects
is too small to show in Fig. 3(d). If we analyze the simulation data of the histogram, it is easy to see
the pixel probability of small hot objects is not equal to zero. Fig. 4 shows the advantages of the
proposed MHE consistent with Fig. 3. Especially, the MHE’s enhancement effect on the small
airplane is more significant than that on the sky as shown in Fig. 4(b).
1.5.1.2 Experimental results in the enhancement of the high spatial frequency
The effect of the high-boost filter is exhibited in Fig. 5. Fig. 5(a) shows the result when Fig.
3(b) is processed by the high-boost filter. Comparing Fig. 5(a) with Fig. 3(b), it is clear that the
edges and textures of the people become more pronounced so the objects are easily discerned from
their backgrounds. This result shows that the high-boost filter enhances the power of high spatial
frequency effectively. Similarly, Fig. 5(b) demonstrates the efficiency of the high-boost filter
consistent with those of Fig. 5(a).
(a) (b)
Fig. 5 The results of performing high-boost filtering on Figs. 3(b) and 4(b), respectively. (a) The
resulting image of Fig. 3(b) processed by a high-boost filter. (b) The resulting image of Fig. 4(b)
processed by a high-boost filter.
1.5.2 Conclusions
We present an effective and adaptive enhancement approach by using the MHE with HTF and
high-boost filter. There are three main advantages of the proposed approach. The first is that MHE
with HTF, which is based on using the PDF and entropy information about the histogram to
enhance IR images, has a greater enhancement effect on small hot objects than on large
backgrounds. The second advantage of this approach is that a high-boost filter enhances the power
of high spatial frequency, alleviating the diffraction effects induced by an IR lens via the long IR
wavelength. Finally, no prior knowledge about the IR images is necessary and no parameter must be
manually preset to perform the proposed approach. The people shown in Fig. 5(a) and the airplane
shown in Fig. 5(b) exhibit the feasibility and efficiency of the proposed approach.
2. 參考文獻
[1] A. Dawoud, M. S. Alam, A. Bal and C. Loo,“Target tracking in infrared imagery using weighted
composite reference function-based decision fusion, ”IEEE Transactions on Image Processing,
8[17] Yakoub Bazi, Lorenzo Bruzzone, and Farid Melgani, "Image thresholding based on the EM
algorithm and the generalized Gaussian distribution" Pattern Recognition, pp. 619~634, 2007.
[18] M. Sonka, V. Hlavac and R. Boyle, Image processing, Analysis, and Machine Vision, Second
edition, PWS publishing, New York, 1999.
[19] C. L. Lin and K. C. Fan,” Biometric Verification Using Thermal Images of Palm-dorsa
Vein-paterns,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, vol.14, no. 2,
pp. 199-213, February 2004.
[20] C. L. Lin, T. C. Chuang and K. C. Fan, ”Palmprint Verification Using Hierarchical
Decomposition,” Pattern Recognition, vol. 38, issue 12 , pp. 2639~2652, December 2005.
[21] R. E. Jacobson, S. F. Ray, G. G. Attridge and N. R. Axford, The Manual of Photography:
Photographic and Digital Image, Ninth edition, Focal Press publishing, Oxford, 2000.
[22] Warren J. Smith, Modern optical engineering : the design of optical systems, fourth edition,
McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., New York, 2007.
[23] Rafael C. Gonzalez and Richard E. Woods, Digital Image Processing 2nd edition, Prentice
Hall, 2002.
3. 計畫成果自評
Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed approach can obtain quality IR images
and can be applied in military surveillance and tracking systems. In the applications of surveillance
or tracking systems, hot objects of interest usually have to be detected at long range and so are
much smaller than their backgrounds. In addition, the images often have low intensity and low
contrast. It is a considerable challenge to provide a high enhancement effect on hot objects but not
on backgrounds. In order to conquer the challenge, we propose an adaptive enhancement approach
consisting of the MHE with HTF and high-boost filter. Experimental results demonstrate that the
proposed approach can meet this challenge.
The results in this research project had been written in a paper format and submitted. According
the editor’s suggestions and reviewers’comments, the paper has been revised for the IEEE
Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters.
Acknowledgements
We acknowledge the support for this study through grants from National Science Council (NSC
97-2218-E-033 -002).
第 2 頁/共 16 頁
一、參加會議經過。
使用網際網路上搜尋引擎早已成為日常生活中的一部分，對於這些搜尋引擎而言，自
然語言處理(Natural Language Processing) 與資訊檢索(Information Retrieval) 則為其核心
研究，也就是研究如何改善這些搜尋引擎的效能。實際上自然語言處理(Natural Language
Processing) 與資訊檢索(Information Retrieval)的研究成果已被廣泛的應用於語音辨認、
語音合成及機器翻譯等方面。
ICCPOL (International Conference on the Computer Processing of Oriental Languages) 會
議主要著重於東方語言的自然語言研究，其規模與參與人員雖然不如ACL (the
Association of Computational Linguistics) 及COLING (International Conference on
Computational Linguistics) 等會議，但卻也提供了從事自然語言處理研究人員更密切的
接觸與討論，在此會議上除可以了解最近自然語言處理研究上有待處理的問題及問題解
決的程度，透過密切的討論與交流更可以進一步瞭解對研究學者們對問題的看法，經由
這樣的腦力激盪更有助於釐清或修正本身的研究方向。
在此次會議中，特別安排了兩個演講，分別是香港中文大學的王士元教授的 ”
Information Processing by Human and by Computer: The Case of Language”以及日本國立
語言研究所Kikuo Maekawa 教授的”A Corpus Compilation Initiative at the National
Institute for Japanese Language”，Kikuo Maekawa 教授的演講中特別提到語料庫對計算
語言研究的影響。
除了演講之外，在一般論文報告及poster section中，有多篇論文討論如何利用機器學
習方法及網際網路的龐大語料庫及社交網路來探勘使用行為與意見，這些的研究成果將
有助於讓我們更瞭解使用的想法與需求，進而提出更好的方法來解決使用者的需求。
第 4 頁/共 16 頁
三、建議。
無
四、其它。
無
第 6 頁/共 16 頁
第 8 頁/共 16 頁
第 10 頁/共 16 頁
第 12 頁/共 16 頁
第 14 頁/共 16 頁
