 2
一、中文摘要 
 
在現今的社會環境下，組織如何贏得
競爭優勢最主要的因素在於組織內的人
員，而在組織內部與人最相關的就是人力
資源管理部門。且近幾年為了反應整個快
速改變的社會和組織環境，人力資源管理
部門開始慢慢地重視電子化資訊科技的使
用。當組織想要成功地將資訊系統導入到
人力資源管理部門，也就是所謂的電子化
人力資源系統，重新檢視整個工作系統和
相關的影響因素是非常必要的。因此，為
了同時考量工作者身心的特徵、工作系統
和相關軟硬體介面之人因設計，此篇研究
利用宏觀人因的觀點探討電子化人力資源
管理系統之成功採用。 
宏觀人因的基本假設是應用在工作系
統設計的社會科技子系統模式。基於這個
觀點，此篇研究將利用文獻探討得到社會
科技子系統模式和相關資訊系統採用之模
式，藉由層級分析法去確認影響電子化人
力資源系統成功採用之相關因素。而在此
多準則模式中，包含環境、組織結構、人
員和科技這四方面。在環境構面下有三個
因素分別是內部工作環境、公司文化和外
部環境；在組織結構方面包含複雜度、正
式化、集權化和組織大小；在個人方面有
高階主管支持、高階主管參與、使用者參
與、使用者經驗、使用者能力、使用者態
度和期望有用性；在科技方面包含系統品
質、資訊系統發展團隊品質和系統使用率。 
基於上述原因，在此研究中採行問卷
發放方式探討所有因素的相對重要性，研
究對象包含在電子化人力資源系統有深入
了解或實際運用之產業界與學術界專家。
研究結果顯示如果組織想要成功地導入電
子化人力資源系統，在宏觀人因的觀點之
下，組織結構應該是優先考量的因素，再
來分別是科技、環境和個人方面。而在組
織結構下，決策者應該優先考量組織大
小，在科技方面應先考量資訊系統發展團
隊品質，在環境下應先考量內部工作環
境，而在個人方面高階主管的參與是最重
要的考量因素。如果決策者想要同時地考
量所有構面下之因素，前四項最重要的因
素分別是組織大小、正式化程度、內部工
作環境和資訊系統發展團隊品質。 
關鍵字：電子化人力資源系統、宏觀人因、 
社會科技系統 
 
Abstract 
 
Recent years, in order to respond to the 
changing society, the human resource 
management (HRM) section in the 
organization gradually placing importance 
on electronic information technologies (IT). 
As the organization wants to successfully 
implement IT into its HRM sections (so 
called E-HR system), it is necessary to 
review again the overall work system and 
related influential factors in the organization. 
Hence, the study proposes a 
macroergonomics perspective in the E-HR 
work system.  
The results of this study indicate that if 
the organization wants to implement an 
E-HR system successfully, the organization 
structure is the first consideration factor in 
the macroergonomics perspective; the 
second is technology; the third is 
environment; and the last is personnel. 
Under the four aspects of macroergonomics 
perspective, the decision-makers should give 
priority to the organization size under the 
organization structure aspect, information 
system development team quality under the 
technology aspect, internal work 
environment under the environment aspect 
and top-manager support under the 
personnel aspect respectively. If the 
decision-makers want to rank all factors of 
aspects simultaneously, the most importance 
factors are organization size, formalization, 
internal work environment and information 
system development team quality.  
 
Keyword：electronic human resource 
system、macroergonomics  
 
Introduction 
In the organization, the human resource 
management (HRM) section will become 
the best weapon to make the organization 
succeed. The HR can create the competitive 
advantages to the organization (Fisher et al., 
2002). Under such environment, the 
 4
macroergonomics perspectives and related 
suggestion of successful IS adoption to 
propose a multi-criteria model of E-HR 
system adoption, based on the AHP. 
  
Literature Review 
1. Ergonomics 
Ergonomics is a discipline that applies 
“knowledge of human abilities and 
limitations to the design of systems, 
organizations, jobs, machines, tools, and 
consumer products for safe, efficient, and 
comfortable use” (Helander, 1997). The goal 
of ergonomics is to optimize the balance 
between the capabilities (physical and 
psychosocial) of the individual and the 
demands required by the work to improve 
comfort, productivity and efficiency, prevent 
musculoskeletal injury. At present, 
ergonomics has at least five identifiable 
major components, including 
human-machine interface technology or 
hardware ergonomics, human-environment 
interface technology or environmental 
ergonomics, human-job interface technology 
or work design ergonomics, human- 
software interface technology which is the 
central focus of cognitive ergonomics, 
human-organization interface technology or 
macroergonomics (Hendrick and Kleiner, 
2002; Kleiner, 2006). The central focus of 
the first four ergonomics technologies has 
been the individual operator and subsystems. 
Thus, the primary application of these 
technologies has been at the 
micro-ergonomic level. In contrast, the last 
one human-organization interface 
technology aspect is macro-ergonomics 
level, because it deals with the overall 
structure and processes of the total work 
system. Hence, human-organization 
interface technology is referred to as 
"macroergonomics". 
Macroergonomics, is defined as “a 
top-down socio-technical systems approach 
to the design of work systems, and the 
carry-through of the overall work system 
design to the design of the human-job, 
human-machine, and human-software 
interfaces” (Hendrick and Kleiner, 2002; 
Kleiner, 2006, p82). Hendrick and Kleiner 
(2001) presented that the socio-technical 
system model of work systems was 
empirically developed in the late 1940s and 
1950s. Macroergonomics was evolved from 
socio-technical systems theory (Cherns, 
1967; 1987; Taylor and Felten, 1993; Trist 
and Murray, 1993), and was to design these 
unique features of the organization so that 
human skills and abilities are effectively 
used to achieve personal and organization 
goals (Majchrzak, 2001). Macroergonomics 
is the study of work systems (Hendrick and 
Kleiner, 2001), where a work system 
comprises two or more people working 
together, interacting with technologies 
within an organizational system 
characterized by an internal environment. 
Hendrick and Kleiner (2001) indicated that 
socio-technical systems bring three elements 
to bear this process: a technological 
subsystem, personnel subsystem, an 
organizational structure and the environment. 
In conclusion, macroergonomics is 
concerned with the optimization of work 
system design by considering relevant social, 
technical, and environmental variables and 
their interactions. 
In brief, macroergonomics takes 
socio-technical systems approach to design 
the work system, and it concerned with the 
optimization of the design. Therefore, 
macroergonomics is human-centered and 
carries the work system design through the 
ergonomics design of related software and 
hardware interface and overall organization 
work environment. 
 
2. Electronic Human Resource (E-HR) 
The term E-HR was first used in the 
1990’s and refers to conducting Human 
Resource Management “transactions” using 
the internet along with other technologies 
(Lengnick-Hall and Moritz, 2003). Broadly, 
the term E-HR refers to a web-based access 
to human resource data, tools and 
transactions in the workplace. Besides E-HR, 
there are some further concepts which 
obviously refer to the same phenomenon. 
Widely accepted are the terms as virtual 
HRM (Lepak and Snell, 1998), web-based 
HRM (Ruël et al., 2004), or 
business-to-employee (B2E) (Huang, Jin, 
 6
should confirm some conditions: clear goals, 
excellent schedule, supportive senior 
managers, object-oriented communication, 
problem solving process, experiences 
(Laughlin, 1999). 
Willcocks (2000)considered that the key 
successful factors of constructing an ERP 
include：the support and participation of 
top-manager、the draft of scheduling、the 
participation of all the staff、the capability of 
information technology、the building of the 
excellent professed teams. The Anderson 
Consulting presented four key points of 
successfully introducing ERP: the leadership, 
transfer planning by phases, the resist of 
employee and the excellent team. According 
to Sabherwal et al. (2004), the success of 
adopting IS including three dimensions: (1) 
System success: system quality, perceived 
usefulness, user satisfaction, and system 
usage. (2)Contextual factors: top-manager 
support, top-management support, IS 
facilitating conditions and information 
system development (ISD) team quality. 
(3)User-related factors: user experience, 
user attitude, user involvement, user 
participation, and user training.  
To summarize in this section, the key 
factors of information system adoption 
including(As Figure 2.5):(1) Top-manager 
support (2) Top-manager participation (3) 
User participation (4)User experience 
(5)User attitude (6)User capability (7) 
Perceived usefulness (8) ISD team quality (9) 
System quality (10)System usage 
 
4. Macroergonomics in System Design 
In terms of macroergonomics, the 
strongest contributors in determining the 
success of the adoption process are 
identified (Erensal and Esra, 2004): 
(1)Conditional factors: physical workplace 
and organization of work (2)Organizational 
factors: leadership, company culture and 
participation involvement. (3)Individual 
factors: human performance capability and 
attitude in human performance. DeGreene 
(1973) indicated that effective work system 
design requires “joint design” of the 
technical and personal subsystems. Thus, 
joint design requires a “human-centered” 
approach in ergonomics terms. In terms of 
functional task allocation, Bailey (1989) 
refers to it as a humanized task approach. 
The function and task allocation process 
should first consider whether there is a need 
for a human to perform a given function or 
task before allocating functions to either 
humans or machines. Hence, humanized 
task approach should have systematic 
consideration of the professionalism 
(education and training), cultural, and 
psychosocial characteristics of the personnel 
subsystem (Hendrick and Kleiner, 2001). 
According to Grover and Goslar (1993), the 
factors that influence the organization to 
adopt the IS including: (1)Environmental 
factor: uncertainly and complexity (2) 
Organization factor: organization size (3) 
Centralization degree (4) Maturity of 
information system. 
To summarize, macroergonomics is 
concerned with the optimization of work 
system design through consideration of 
environment, organization structure, 
personnel and technology simultaneously. 
And the environment includes internal work 
environment, company culture and external 
work environment. The organization 
structure includes complexity 、
formalization、centralization、organization 
size. The personnel include top-manager 
support, top-manager participation, user 
experience, user attitude, user capability and 
perceived usefulness. The technology 
includes ISD team quality, system usage and 
system quality. 
 
5. Analytic Hierarchy Process 
In order to identify relative importance 
of the factors affecting the process of 
adopting E-HR in the organization, using 
macroergonomics perspectives are required. 
The process itself may be a multiple-criteria 
process. Hence, the Analytic Hierarchy 
Process (AHP) is suggested as a tool for 
implementing a multiple criteria decision 
tool for E-HR adoption. AHP is a simple 
decision-making tool, dealing with complex, 
unstructured and multi-attribute problems 
that have been developed by Saaty (1980).  
The AHP was considered to be a heuristic 
 8
multiple criteria process for managers. 
Hence, through the results of extensive 
literature review, the study uses 
macroergonomics perspectives and related 
IS adoption success factors to propose a 
multi-criteria model, based on the AHP. 
AHP is a simple decision-making tool to 
deal with complex, unstructured and 
multi-attribute problems that has been 
developed by Saaty (1994a). In the AHP, a 
complex decision problem is structured as a 
hierarchy. The AHP initially breaks down a 
complex multi-criteria decision-making 
problem into a hierarchy of interrelated 
decision elements. 
The first step of the AHP consists of 
developing a hierarchical structure of the 
assessment problem. For the purpose of 
illustration, we have limited the hierarchy to 
only three levels. To determine the most 
suitable E-HR introduced alternative, 
three-level hierarchical model was devised. 
The first level or objective (the goal) is 
referred to here as Excellent Adoption of 
E-HR System. The objective of Excellent 
Adoption of E-HR System which is 
positioned in the first level of the hierarchy 
is divided into four main criteria at the 
second level, which are called environment, 
organization, personnel and technology 
considerations. The two level of hierarchy 
includes sub criteria: environment (internal 
work environment, company culture and 
external work environment), organization 
structure (complexity, formalization, 
centralization, and organization size), 
personnel(top-manager support, 
top-manager participation, user experience, 
user attitude, user capability and perceived 
usefulness),and technology (ISD team 
quality, system usage and system quality) 
based sub criteria that comprise the 
two-level of the hierarchy are as follow： 
 (1) Environmental factors include internal 
work environment, company culture 
and external work environment: 
Internal work environment includes 
designing the workplace to fulfill the 
principles of motion economy and 
designing the workplace to maximize 
ergonomically considerations such as 
comfort and safety of employees. 
Company culture indicates how people 
are used to thinking, acting, making 
decisions, and participating in an 
organization. Hence, company culture 
means “the way things are done in an 
organization.” There are five types of 
external work environments that affect 
organizational operating: 
socio-economic, educational, political, 
cultural and legal. 
 (2) Organizational structure factors include 
complexity, formalization, and 
centralization and organization size: 
Complexity is including the 
segmentation of the organization and 
linking the segments together with 
coordinating mechanisms. 
Formalization is defined as the degree 
of standardization. Centralization is 
concerned with decision-making and 
the extent to which authority is 
concentrated within a few individuals. 
Organization size is including staff 
quantity and company size. 
 (3) Personnel factors include top-manager 
support, top-manager participation, 
user participation, user experience, user 
capability, user attitude and perceived 
usefulness: Top-manager support must 
promote communication and 
motivation and help establish the 
culture necessary to get things done, 
transmit a sense of mission, stimulate 
learning experiences, and inspire new 
ways of thinking. Top-manager 
participation examines personal 
leadership and involvement in creating 
and sustaining values, company 
directions, performance expectations, 
and a leadership system that promotes 
performance excellence for human 
resources. User participation means “Is 
user involvement in the E-HR 
adoption?” User experience means the 
duration or level of an individual's prior 
use of computers and information 
systems. User capability includes the 
knowledge, skills, and abilities of the 
individuals in an organization. User 
attitude must be considered that attitude; 
self-esteem, communication abilities, 
 10
comparison. This involves an objective or 
subjective assignment of preference weights 
to each pair of the measures. And the 
9-point scales are used to assign pairwise 
comparisons of all elements in each level of 
the hierarchy. Hence, the questionnaire 
design will included 39 items to measure the 
factors of system adoption. Base on the 
research objectives of this study, the 
samples are aimed mainly at two parts. The 
first one is the academic expert in the 
domain of E-HR. The other is the industrial 
expert who is the HR section manager in the 
company and the company already 
introduced an E-HR. This study would be 
randomly selected for two reasons. First, 
there are only a few organizations using the 
E-HR in Taiwan for a long time so far. 
Second, the AHP questionnaire is different 
from others; the sample should be the 
domain of expert. Therefore, the subjects 
were those who participate in “The E-HR 
whole solution success case publication 
meeting” in the past and the members of 
E-HR club association. First, we will obtain 
their agreement and then send out the 
questionnaires through them by the Internet 
or mail to them for getting responses from 
human resource section managers who are 
working in the organization. We send 30 
questionnaires to the academic and 
industrial expert, respectively.  
 
Analyses and Results 
 
In this study, we send 30 questionnaires 
to the academic and industrial expert 
respectively. And we retrieved 23 
questionnaires. The consistency of all 
questionnaires should be calculated 
respectively for checking the questionnaire 
validity. The consistency ratios of the 
overall hierarchy had to be calculated 
separately due to the different numbers of 
evaluation indicators in all levels. If the 
consistency ratio (CR) is less than 0.1, the 
comparisons are acceptable. A CR of 0.1 is 
considered as the acceptable upper limit. If 
the CR is greater than 0.1 then the 
decision-makers have to re-evaluate their 
judgments in pairwise comparison matrix 
until the ratio is finally less than 0.1. Overall 
hierarchy of consistency can be checked by 
using Consistency Ratio of the Hierarchy 
(CRH). If the CRH is less than 0.1, the 
comparisons are acceptable. While the CRH 
larger than but not equal to 0.1, the 
questionnaire can be reject. If the CRH of 
the hierarchy were less than 0.l, the 
questionnaire were valid and acceptable.  
The numbers of valid questionnaires 
done by industrial expert was 14, the 
response rate was 81.9% and valid response 
rate was 66.7%. The number of academic 
expert valid questionnaire was 5, the 
response rate was 66.7% and valid response 
rate was 55.6% .Therefore, the total valid 
questionnaire response rate was 63.3%. 
The first level or objective (the goal) is 
regarded as the Excellent Adoption of E-HR 
system, which is positioned in the first level 
of the hierarchy, is divided into four main 
criteria at the second level, with the 
considerations of environment, organization 
structure, personnel and technology 
considerations. The second level of 
hierarchy includes sub-criteria: environment 
(internal work environment, company 
culture and external work environment), 
organization structure (complexity, 
formalization, centralization, organization 
size), personnel (top-manager support, 
top-manager participation, user experience, 
user attitude, user capability and perceived 
usefulness), and technology (ISD team 
quality, system usage and system quality).  
In first level, the pairwise comparison 
matrix and priority vector are shown as 
Table 4 and 5. Table 4 indicates that both of 
the CI and CR are less than .10, well below 
the rule value of CR which should be equal 
to 0.1. This clearly implies that the 
evaluators are consistent in assigning 
pairwise comparison judgments. From Table 
5, priority vector can show the relative 
importance of the criteria. In the four aspects 
of the first level , the results showed that the 
first relative important aspect is organization 
structure, and the importance radio is 40.3%. 
In addition, the importance radio of 
environment aspect is 21.2%. Personnel 
aspect is 14.1%. Technology aspect is 
24.4%. 
 12
value of CR which should be equal to 0.1. 
Therefore, the evaluators are consistent with 
the assignment of pairwise comparison 
judgments. And from table 9, priority vector 
showed that the relative important criterion 
is organization size (importance radio is 
36.1%). The importance radio of complexity 
is 18.2%. Formalization is 32.4%. 
Centralization is 13.3%. 
 
Table 8 Pairwise Comparison Matrix of the Organization on Structure Evaluation on Aspect 
 Complexity Formalization Centralization Organization Size 
Complexity 1 0.560 1.674 0.409 
Formalization 1.787 1 2.439 0.919 
Centralization 0.597 0.410 1 0.444 
Organization size 2.443 1.088 2.255 1 
λ max=4.298  CI=0.009    RI=0.89   CR=0.011 
  
Table 9 Priority Vector and Ranking of the Organization on Structure Evaluation on Aspect 
 Priority Vector Ranking 
Complexity 18.2% 3 
Formalization 32.4% 2 
Centralization 13.3% 4 
Organization size 36.1% 1 
 
(3) Personnel  
In this criterion, there are seven 
sub-criteria: top-manager participation, 
top-manager support, user participation, user 
experience, user ability, user attitude and 
perceived usefulness. And the pairwise 
comparison matrix and priority vector are 
shown as Table 10 and 11. Table 10 
indicates that both of the CI and CR are less 
than 0.1, well below the rule value of CR 
which should be equal to 0.1. Therefore, the 
evaluators are consistent with the 
assignment of pairwise comparison 
judgments. And from table 11, priority 
vector showed that the relative important 
criterion is top-manager participation 
(importance radio is 25.8%). The 
importance radio of top-manager support is 
23.2%. User participation is 7.9%. User 
experience is 6.7%. User ability is 9.5%. 
User attitude is 10.3%. Perceived usefulness 
is 16.6%. 
 
(4) Technology  
In this criterion, there are three 
sub-criteria: system quality, ISD team 
quality and system usage. And the pairwise 
comparison matrix and priority vector are 
shown as Table 12 and 13. Table 12 
indicates that both of the CI and CR are less 
than 0.1, which is well below the rule value 
of CR which should be equal to 0.1. 
Therefore, the evaluators are consistent with 
the assignment of pairwise comparison 
judgments. And from table 13, priority 
vector showed that the relative important 
criterion is ISD team quality (importance 
radio is 46.7%). The importance radio of 
system quality is 34.8%. System usage is 
18.5%. 
 
Table 10 Pairwise Comparison Matrix of the Personnel Evaluation Aspect 
 Top-manager Participation 
Top-manager 
Support 
User 
Participation
User 
Experience
User 
Ability 
User 
Attitude
Perceived 
Usefulness
Top-manager 
Participation 1 0.943 3.184 3.255 2.853 3.458 2.168 
Top-manager 
Support 1.060 1 2.323 3.020 2.738 2.839 2.089 
 14
 External work environment 33.5% 2 
Complexity 18.2% 3 
Formalization 32.4% 2 
Centralization 13.3% 4 
Organization 
Structure 
40.3% 
Organization size 36.1% 1 
0.011 
Top-manager Support  25.8% 1 
Top-manager Participation 23.2% 2 
User Participation 7.9% 6 
User Experience 6.7% 7 
User Ability 9.5% 5 
User Attitude 10.3% 4 
Personnel 
 14.1% 
Perceived Usefulness 16.6% 3 
0.059 
System Quality 34.8% 2 
ISD Team Quality 46.7% 1 
Technology 
24.4% 
System Usage 18.5% 3 
0.004 
 
After computing the normalized 
priority weights for each pairwise 
comparison judgment matrice of the AHP 
hierarchy, the next phase is to synthesize the 
solution. In order to synthesize the solution, 
we should have normalized local priority 
weights of internal work environment, 
company culture, external work 
environment, complexity, formalization, 
centralization, organization size, ISD team 
quality, system usage and system quality, 
top-manager support, top-manager 
participation, user experience, user attitude, 
user capability and perceived usefulness.  
The normalized local priority weights 
of consideration factors, criteria, and sub 
criteria from the phase are combined to 
obtain the global composite priority weights 
of all sub criteria as shown in Table 15. 
After calculating the global weights of each 
sub criterion of second level of the AHP 
model, they are rearranged in descending 
order of priority, as shown in Table 16. It 
can be seen that the factors of excellent 
adoption of E-HR system are at the list. 
 
Table 15 Global Composite Priority Weights of All Sub Criteria 
Alternative Priority 
Vector 
Ranking Alternative Priority 
Vector 
Ranking
Internal Work 
Environment 11.8% 
3 User Participation 0.9% 17 
Company Culture 2.3% 12 User Experience 1.0% 16 
External work 
environment 7.1% 
7 User Capability 1.4% 15 
Complexity 7.3% 6 User Attitude 1.9% 13 
Formalization 13.0% 2 Perceived Usefulness 1.7% 14 
Centralization 5.3% 8 System Quality 8.5% 5 
Organization Size 14.6% 1 ISD Team Quality 11.4% 4 
Top-manager Support 3.7% 10 System Usage 4.5% 9 
Top-manager 
Participation 3.5% 
11    
Table 16 Ranking of All Sub Criteria Consideration Factors 
Alternative Priority Vector Ranking 
Organization Size 14.6% 1 
 16
conclude the results respectively and the 
importance ranking of all the hierarchy 
analysis results: 
 (1) Organization structure aspect: In this 
aspect, the ranking of relative important 
criterion is organization size, 
formalization, complexity, and 
centralization. In other words, when the 
organization wants to implement an 
E-HR system successfully, the most 
important consideration of factors is 
organization size. 
 (2) Technology aspect: In this aspect, the 
ranking of relative important criterion 
is ISD team quality, system quality, and 
system usage. In other words, when the 
organization wants to implement an 
E-HR system successfully, the most 
important consideration of factors is 
ISD team quality. 
 (3) Environment aspect: In this aspect, the 
ranking of relative important criterion 
is internal work environment, external 
work environment, and company 
culture. In other words, when the 
organization wants to implement an 
E-HR system successfully, the most 
important consideration of factors is 
internal work environment 
 (4) Personnel aspect: In this aspect, the 
ranking of relative important criterion 
is top-manager participation, 
top-manager support, perceived 
usefulness, user ability, user 
participation, and user experience. In 
other words, when the organization 
wants to implement an E-HR system 
successfully, the most important 
consideration of factors is top-manager 
participation. 
2. Suggestions 
After having discussed the conclusions 
of this study, here are some suggestions for 
decision-makers and future research 
respectively. 
There are some suggestions for the 
decision-makers. These results can 
administer the priority of factors to 
decision-makers.: 
 (1) From macroergonomics perspective, 
designing an effective work system 
should consider four aspects 
simultaneously. Hence, when the 
organization implemented a system, the 
decision-makers should simultaneously 
consider environments, organization 
structure, technology and personnel.  
 (2) If the organization wants to implement 
an E-HR system successfully, the 
organization structure is the first 
consideration factor in the 
macroergonomics perspective; the 
second is technology; the third is 
environment; and the last is personnel. 
 (3) Under the four aspects of 
macroergonomics perspective, there are 
some factors that the decision-makers 
should consider and the priority of each 
factor as following:    
    Under the organization structure, the 
decision-makers should give priority to the 
organization size, and then are formalization, 
complexity and centralization. Organization 
size is including staff quantity and company 
size. According to the Ministry of Economic 
Affairs, the quantity of small-and 
medium-size businesses are less than 200. 
Because of the limitation of resources, the 
success rate of implementing a system is low 
(Lee, 2003). Therefore, the study suggests 
that when the organization wants to import 
an E-HR system successfully, the staff 
quantity in the organization size should not 
small than 200. 
    Under the technology, the 
decision-makers should give priority to the 
ISD team quality, and then are system usage 
and system quality. ISD team quality 
indicates the technical expertise of the ISD 
team as well as the communication skills of 
the ISD team members (Amoako-Gyampah 
and White 1996, Wixom and Watson, 2001). 
    Under the environment, the 
decision-makers should give priority to the 
internal work environment and then are 
external work environment and company 
culture.  
    Under the personnel, the 
decision-makers should give priority to the 
top-manager support and then are 
top-manager participation, perceived 
usefulness, user attitude, user capability, user 
participation and user experience. Xu (2003) 
 18
Gardner, S. D., Lepak, D. P. and Bartol, K. 
M., (2003). Virtual HR: The impact of 
information technology on the human 
resource professional. Journal of 
Vocational Behavior, 63, 159−179. 
Golden, B.L., Wasil, E.A., and Levy, D.E. 
(1989). Applications of the analytic 
hierarchy process: A categorized, 
annotated bibliography. In B.L. Golden, 
E.A. Wasil, and Harker P.T. (Eds.), The 
Analytic Hierarchy Process, 
Applications and Studies. Berlin: 
Springer-Verlag, 37–58. 
Grover, V. (1993). An Empirically Derived 
Model for the Adoption of 
Customer-based IOS. Decision Science, 
24(3), 603-640. 
Grover, V. and Goslar, M., (1993). The 
Initiation, Adoption, and 
Implementation of 
Telecommunications Technologies in 
US Organization, Journal of 
Management Information System, 10, 
141-1637. 
Helander, M.G. (1997). The Human Factors 
Profession. In Salvendy, G. (ed.), 
Handbook of Human Factors and 
Ergonomics, New York: Wiley, 3-16. 
Hendrick H.W. (1986). Macroergonomics: 
A conceptual model for integrating 
human  factors with organizational 
design. In O Brown, Jr., & H.W. 
Hendrick (Eds.) Human factors in 
organizational design and management 
II, 467-478. Amsterdam: North- 
Holland. 
Hendrick, H.A., and Kleiner, B.M., (2001). 
Macroergonomics: An Introduction to 
Work System Design.  Santa Monica, 
CA: Human Factors and Ergonomics 
Society. 
Hendrick, H.W., and Kleiner, B.M. (2002). 
Macroergonomics: Theory, methods 
and applications. Mahwah, NJ: 
Lawrence Erlbaum. 
Huang, J. H., Jin, B. H., and Yang, C., 
(2004). Satisfaction with business-to- 
employee benefit systems and 
organizational citizenship behavior: An 
examination of gender differences. 
International Journal of Manpower, 
25(2), 195−210. 
Karakanian. M., (1999). Choosing an ERP 
Implementation Strategy. Practitioner, 
2(7), 1-6. 
Kavanagh, M.J., Gueutal H.G. and 
Tannenbaum, S.I., (1990). Human 
Resource Information Systems: 
Development and Application. USA: 
PWS-KENT Publishing Company. 
Kleiner B.M., (2006). Macroergonomics: 
Analysis and design of works systems. 
Applied Ergonomics, 37, 81-89. 
Laughlin, S.P. (1999), An ERP Game Plan, 
Journal of business Strategy, 20(1), 
32-77. 
Lees, J.D. (1987), Successful Development 
of Small Business Information Systems. 
Journal of Systems Management, 38(8), 
32-39. 
Lengnick-Hall, M.L. and Moritz, S. (2003), 
The impact of E-HR on the HRM 
function, Journal of Labor Research, 
24, 365-79.  
Lepak, D. P. and Snell, S. A., (1998). 
Virtual HR: Strategic Human Resource 
Management in the 21st Century. 
Human Resource Management Review, 
8(3), 215−234. 
Majchrzak, A., (2001). Rapid 
Macroergonomics Redesign. 
International encyclopaedia of 
ergonomics and human factor, 2, 
1322-1326. 
Premkuamr, G. and Robert, M. (1999), 
Adoption of New Information 
Technologies in Rural Small Business. 
OMEGA, 27,467-484. 
Ruël, H. J. M., Bondarouk, T., and Looise, J. 
C., (2004). E-HRM: Innovation or 
Irritation. An explorative empirical 
study in five large companies on 
web-based  
    HRM. Management Review, 15(3), 
364−381. 
Saaty, T.L. (1980). The analytic hierarchy 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-168-031- 
計畫名稱 利用宏觀人因觀點探討電子化人力資源管理之採用(I)- 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
李再長 崑山科技大學企管系 教授 
會議時間地點 馬來西亞吉隆坡 (2009.7.5~2009.7.9) 
會議名稱 Business and Information 2009學術研討會 
發表論文題目 Relationships between Employee’s Perception of Corporate SocialResponsibility, Personality, Job Satisfaction, and Organizational Commitment 
 
一、參加會議經過 
今年共有 500 篇論文來自 32 個國家的學者投稿，經審查共有 106 篇論文，分成 11
個主題共 44 個場次發表。國內出席此次研討會之學者包括來自成功大學、崑山科技大
學、台北大學、長榮大學、靜宜大學、政治大學、樹德科技大學、南華大學、逢甲大學、
高雄應用科技大學、台南大學、聯合大學、真理大學、吳鳳技術學院、明新科技大學等
多人。 
    敝人以「Relationships between Employee’s Perception of Corporate Social 
Responsibility,  
Personality, Job Satisfaction, and Organizational Commitment」為題向與會的教授及學者們
作報告，說明社會責任、員工人格 工作滿意 以及組織承諾的關係，並獲得主辦單位肯
定 給予高度評價， 獲選為最佳論文獎得主。 
此外，敝人亦主動參加 E2, F2- Management Information System, G6-Market and 
Information及 H5– Organizational Behavior and Human Resources Management等場次之論
文發表會，與各個論文發表者討論相關之研究課題，獲益匪淺。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
此次研討會大會的 Honorary Chair，由美國 Southern Illinois 大學的 Kutan Ali M教 
擔任，彼提及未來大學教育的趨勢將從“Supply-pull”移轉至“Demand-pull”，內容相當精
采，可作為大學教育發展之參考。 
敝人在與會期間另一收穫係結識多位國際知名之學者  教授及專家，包括澳洲
