 2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
物理療法結合單通道腦電/心電自動化睡眠分期之失眠 
改善與評估系統開發 
 System Development of Single-Channel EEG/ECG Automated Sleep 
Staging Integrated with Physical Therapy for the Improvement and 
Evaluation of Insomnia 
 
計畫編號: NSC 99-2221-E-218 -012 
執行期限: 99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 8 月 31 日 
 
主持人: 梁治國     南台科技大學電機工程研究所 
共同主持人: 張嘉祐、陳志金      奇美醫學中心神經內科與加護醫學部 
 
中文摘要 
原計畫題目是為期三年的計畫，因計畫僅通過一年。因此，研究計畫主要是
專注在腦電/心電圖量測與電刺激系統和使用單一通道腦電之自動睡眠分期系統
之開發。  
此自動睡眠分期系統只使用有一個通道作為腦電信號輸入。首先，分別提取
腦電圖信號的以FFT為基礎之功率譜密度（PSD）、樣本熵和小波變換的PSD後，
找出這三種分析方法所得之特徵參數。隨後，這些特徵參數被用作執行睡眠分期
分類之支持向量機（SVM）的輸入參數。此外，運用交叉驗證 SVM，以確定最
佳參數，分析每項的功能，並對其分期結果進行測試。睡眠分期共分為四個階段：
清醒（W）、淺睡（LS）、慢波睡眠（SWS）與快速眼動（REM）睡眠階段。
結果表明，這些分期特性個別而言雖不是很有效，但一起使用評估時，可以產生
約81.30％的準確度。此外，亦開發一個基於 LabVIEW之圖形用戶界面（GUI）
可顯示睡眠週期圖、睡眠效率、睡眠每階段的持續時間和一個三維圖形的睡眠比
例之分析系統，可以提供充分的睡眠信息為個人睡眠品質檢查之用。  
 
關鍵詞：睡眠分期分類、樣本熵、功率譜密度、小波變換、支持向量機 
 
Abstract: 
The current project is limited to the development of an EEG/ECG/electrical 
stimulation system and an automated sleep stage classification system using 
single-channel EEG. The current development is a partial result of an original three 
year project that was reduced to a year.  
The project focused on the development of an automated sleep stage 
classification system through the use of only a single channel EEG as input signal. 
First, features were extracted from the EEG signal using a combination of three 
analysis methods in the form of FFT power spectrum density (PSD), sample entropy 
(SaEn) and wavelet transform PSD. Afterwards, these features were used as input 
 4 
(Berthomier et al., 2007). In addition, previous authors have cited the use of neural 
networks (Berthomier et al., 2007; Schwaibold et al., 2001; Park, 2000; Oropesa et al., 
1999) and other classification algorithms like Hidden Markov Model (HMM) (Flexer 
et al., 2005; Flexer et al., 2002;), clustering (Agarwal & Gotman, 2001), decision tree 
learning (Virkkala et al., 2008; Virkkala et al., 2007; Hanaoka et al., 2001), and 
self-organizing maps (Shimada et al., 2009)  in combination with different analyses 
to classify sleep stages. However in recent years a new algorithm in the form of 
support vector machine (SVM) is receiving a number of recognition in classification 
and pattern recognition applications (Burges, 1998). In 1995, Vapnik developed the 
foundations for SVM which embodies Structural Risk Minimization (SRM) with 
proofs showing its superiority to traditional Empirical Risk Minimization (ERM) used 
by conventional neural networks. Compared to ERM that minimizes error in the 
training data, SRM minimizes an upper bound on the expected risk. From this, SVM 
expanded from solving classification problem to include regression problems (Burges, 
1998; Gunn, 1998). It can also be defined as a set of related supervised learning 
method that can be used for classification and regression. Therefore, the future 
development of more beneficial and practical applications such as those mentioned 
above is a common goal for researchers to help improve the quality of life. For this 
research, it aims to develop an automated sleep stage classification system using 
single channel EEG and SVM to minimize the discomfort of examinees during sleep 
examination, reduce the time and effort in classifying the sleep stages and provide 
patients with a better picture of their condition through visual results.  
 
2. Materials and Methods 
2-1 System architecture 
The current system has five main parts: (1) 2 channel EEG acquisition (2) 1 
channel ECG (3) NI-DAQ card (4) automated sleep staging system and (5) electrical 
stimulator. Shown below is the system platform diagram. The actual prototype is 
shown in figure 1. 
 
2-2 Electrical Stimulator and voltage to current converter design 
The electrical stimulator is designed to have high output impedance mainly for 
safety considerations. It was designed due to the differences in skin conductance of 
every person and thus to avoid the danger of over current generation. In addition, the 
stimulator was designed to have constant 1 V output with current limited to less than 
2mA to avoid physical injuries. Moreover, the op amp chosen for the voltage to 
current converter has a low total harmonic distortion (%THD) to also satisfy the 
required output current. Currently this device requires an input control from a 
LabVIEW program and the signal is sent out through the aid of a DAQ. 
 6 
 
Fig. 3 Graphic user interface for the electrical stimulation 
 
 
Fig. 4 Output of the stimulation as viewed using the oscilloscope 
 
2-3 EEG amplifier  
The EEG amplifier has a front end amplifier that has an amplification rate of at 
least 13, 300 times with a CMRR of more than 110 dB and an input impedance of 
7MΩ. In addition, the bandwidth coverage is between 0.5 Hz to 1 kHz. It utilized a 
multiple feedback low-pass filter with an RC high pass filter circuit with a cut-off 
frequency of 0.5 Hz. Actual amplification of the EEG signal produces an average of 
0.7 V with a range of 0.5~1.4 V.  
 8 
 
Fig.5 Automated sleep staging block diagram 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
3-1 EEG/ECG acquisition and physical stimulation system 
 The ECG/EEG and electrical stimulator module was The supply of the system 
takes in AC signal converted to 12V DC by an adaptor and further reduced to 9V in 
the system. The module consists of 1 channel electrical stimulator, 1 channel ECG 
and 2-channel EEG with output ports for DAQ input. 
 
3-2 EEG amplifier test 
The EEG signals are measured from the Fp1 and/or Fp2 channels. Data from the 
EEG module will then go through an NI DAQ USB 6211 to be stored and analyzed 
using the computer. A LabVIEW program was used to test the module and the raw 
EEG signal is shown in the figure below. 
 10 
3-4 Sleep stage classification system GUI design 
 The automated sleep stage classification system developed is continuously being 
revised through time. From a research prototype that requires several engineering 
inputs, as shown in figure 8, it has been improved for practical use by minimizing the 
input requirements as shown in figure 9. It also included several output parameters to 
aid users to view their sleep quality in a more graphical and easy to understand model. 
In addition, the model was tested and a table of the accuracies of the different stages is 
shown in Table 1. The overall accuracy was calculated to be around 80%. 
 
 
Fig. 8 Preliminary research GUI for automated sleep stage classification system 
 
 
Fig. 9 Modified user friendly GUI 
 12 
[9] Gunes S, Polat, K., Yosunkaya, S. Efficient sleep stage recognition system based 
on EEG signal using k-means clustering based feature weighting. Expert Syst Appl, 
2010; 37: 7922-7928. 
[10] Oropesa E, Cycon HL, Jobert M. Sleep stage classification using wavelet 
transform and neural network. International Computer Science Institute, TR-99-008, 
1999. 
Park H. Automated sleep stage analysis using hybrid rule-based and case-based 
reasoning. Comput Biomed Res. 2000; 33: 330-349 . 
[11] Penzel T, Canisius S. Polysomnography. In Randerath WJ, Sanner BM, Somers 
VK, editors. Sleep Apnea. Karger, 2006: 51-60. 
[12] Rechtschaffen, A., and Kales, A. A manual of standardized terminology, 
techniques and scoring system for sleep stages of human subjects. Washington, DC: 
US Government Printing Office, National Institute of Health Publication, 1968. 
[13] Schwaibold MH, Penzel T, Schochlin J, Bolz A. Combination of AI components 
for biosignal processing - application to sleep stage recognition. IEEE Eng Med Bio, 
2001; 23: 1692-4. 
[14] Shimada T, Tamura K, Fukami T, Saito Y. The automatic sleep stage diagnosis 
method by using SOM. ICMBE 2009; 13: 245-8. 
[15] Vapnik, V. (1995). The nature of statistical learning theory. Springer-Verlag. 
New York, NY. 
[16] Virkkala J, Hasan J, V a¨rri A, Himanenb S-L, M u¨ller K. Automatic sleep stage    
classification using two-channel electro-oculography. J Neurosci Meth, 2007; 166: 
109-15. 
[17] Virkkala J, Velin R, Himanen S-L, Värri A, Müller K, Hasan J. Automatic sleep  
stage classification using two facial electrodes. IEEE Eng Med Bio, 2008; 30: 
1643-1646. 
 
研究成果自評： 
本計畫題目原為三年計畫僅通過一年，茲將計畫研究成果分為論文、專利與競賽
得獎說明如下： 
1. 論文  
(1) Aaron R. See, C. K. Liang, “An Automated SVM-based Sleep Stage 
Classification System Using Single Channel EEG,” Journal of Neuroscience 
Methods. (Submitted) 
(2) 梁治國、施金波、陳志金、張嘉佑，”以 LabVIEW 為基礎應用支持向量機
分類之單通道睡眠分期系統”，中華民國九十九年生物醫學工程科技研討
會，高雄。 
 
表 Y04 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                100 年 8 月 15 日 
報告人姓
名 
梁治國 服務機構 
及職稱 
南台科技大學 電機系 
教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
8/2/2010~8/5/2010 
Suntec Convention & Exhibition 
Centre 新加坡 
本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC 99-2221-E-218 
-012 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第三屆生物醫學暨藥物工程國際研討會 
 (英文) 3rd International Conference on Biomedical & Pharmaceutical 
Engineering (ICBPE-2011)  
發表 
論文 
題目 
(中文) 應用樣本熵與功率頻譜分析於睡眠腦波之研究 
(英文) A Study on Sleep EEG Using Sample Entropy and Power  
      Spectrum Analysis 
  
表 Y04 
 
The symposium on simulation technology and serious gaming showed that games 
had been present for decades but it have evolved through time. From the form of 
entertainment it is now also being used for educational purposes. In recent years, 
the government and military of the US and some other countries have been going 
into the research on simulating and improving training for accuracy and 
engagement using games. It has been a combination of fun and engaging. 
 
On other research, the psychology in the mind of a gamer is that it continuously 
seeks something interesting and challenging. Moreover, we also had a chance 
where we get to talk with a professor from the Games Lab of National University 
of Singapore who talked about “Why people play games – brain processes in 
game”. There is a presentation on the history of games and how it has been 
affecting society. Children and young people are being affected by having their 
own world with the computer, their consoles or gadgets. This brings in a social 
problem as it affects the social capacity the children and young people. The games 
have been continuously growing and as a million dollar industry it is deemed to be 
a billion dollar industry in years to come. On the other hand he felt that using 
physiological signals as controls or to determine emotion for a game is still a 
challenge. (They have been using EMG and other physiological signals to 
determine emotion. However, he also pointed out that using some additional 
device to play a game is not something openly accepted by users.  
 
In relation to our study on brain assessment and sleep, games provide a window 
that can be further studied to train or help improve psychophysiological 
conditions. Furthermore, studying the effect of games in different aspects of 
learning may it be in language, creativity, and algorithm innovations.  
 
During the conference we were also able to present our paper in front of an 
international audience. Four presentations were made during our session and the 
audience included participants from Singapore, European, Japanese, Taiwanese 
and Indian participants. We reported on the use of several feature extraction and 
classification algorithms. The report also included a compilation of previous and 
current innovations on the automation of sleep stage classification.  
 
The questions asked by the audience included knowing how the accuracy of 
previous papers was calculated and the age range of the subjects in the database. 
Another question was on the treatments or methods that can be done to improve 
sleep. Answers were given for each question and with one European audience who 
praised our presentation and said: “Before I ask my question I would first say that 
the presentation was outstanding.”  
 
Another interesting research is the conversion of the paper ECG file into a digital 
file. The method and algorithm could be valuable to save previous data into a 
digital storage. It could provide convenience to study and saves space.  
表 Y04 
 
3. A good thing for this kind of conference is that other researchers can use this 
opportunity to have their papers published in IEEE and yet at the same time gain 
experience on how to present their paper and innovation in front of an 
international crowd. There were several participants from Taiwan that presented 
in the conference and we believe that this is a good training place for both skill 
and eye opener to see what innovations are out in the field. 
 
4. We do hope that in the future there could be more support, with or without a 
project plan, for us to gain this kind of opportunity to present our developments 
experience and learn abroad. 
 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
1. DSR-2011 Program  
2. DSR-2011 Proceedings Disk 
3. Some Exhibitor’s Data Sheets  
 
五、 本次口頭報告會議之安排(部分資料) 
 
 
 
From: INMEETPro Submission System <submission@inmeetpro.com.sg> 
Subject: ICBPE 2011 - Acceptance Notification 
To: a_r_see@yahoo.com 
Date: Tuesday, 26 April, 2011, 12:02 PM 
 
1 April 2011 
 
Email: a_r_see@yahoo.com 
 
Login ID: BPEA00012 
 
 
Dear Mr Aaron Raymond See, 
 
RE: ICBPE 2011 – ACCEPTANCE NOTIFICATION 
 
On behalf of the organizing committee of the ICBPE & CSBio 2011, we are pleased to inform you that your 
submission has been accepted for the conference. 
 
Your submission details are: 
Submission ID: BPEA00012-00026 
Title: A Study on Sleep EEG Using Sample Entropy and Power Spectrum Analysis 
Review Decision: Accept with Revision 
 
Reviewer＇s comments:  
Compare your four stages to the classical five stages: 1, 2, 3, 4 and REM. Not enough comparison to existing 
published work, strengthen this for the conference. You need a conclusion. 
 
You are now requested to revise your paper based on the comments posted above for re-review. 
 
PREPARATION OF FINAL PAPER 
 
Please follow the guidelines posted on the website to submit your paper: 
 
NOTE: all papers are to be submitted online paper using the same login ID you had used to submit your abstract 
earlier.  Please do not create a new account as you will not be able to submit the paper with a new account. 
 
PAPER SUBMISSION SITE: 
http://www.icbpe.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=92:submit-paper&catid=37&Itemid=267 
 
Your login ID is: BPEA00012 
If you have forgotten your password, please click on the “Forgotten Password＂ link, enter your email address, 
followed by the retrieve button.  The new password will be sent to you by email. 
 
REGISTRATION 
Author registration and payment of fee is required at the time of final paper upload deadline. Failure to complete 
the registration payment by the deadline will result in the paper being removed from the conference programme 
and proceedings. (Author registration cancellations must be made in writing prior to final paper submission 
deadline. NO REFUNDS will be provided to authors after.) 
 
Registration rates and entitlements are posted on: 
http://www.icbpe.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=90&Itemid=256 
 
A Study on Sleep EEG Using  
Sample Entropy and Power Spectrum Analysis 
Aaron Raymond See and Chih-Kuo Liang 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
Southern Taiwan University 
Tainan, Taiwan 
 
 
Abstract — Research on the automation of sleep stage 
classification, particularly single channel EEG, has been a 
challenge for many years. The research aims to look into the 
analysis and evaluation of feature extraction techniques and 
classification methods that are important to properly classify 
sleep stages with limited channels. Sample entropy, and the 
power spectrum of the harmonic parameters using infinite 
impulse response filters and wavelet transform were used to 
extract features from the data taken from Physionet database. A 
total of 13 features were initially extracted and used for the 
training and testing of the sleep stage classification system. 
Analysis of the training data showed a distinct combination 
patterns between the sample entropy and harmonic parameters 
with a change in the sleep stage. In addition, a prototype for the 
sleep stage classification system was implemented. Support 
Vector Machine (SVM) was utilized for the classification system. 
While the training data were extracted from several database. 
Further refinement of the data and the program could be useful 
for a test the sleep stage classification on other database or data. 
Keywords- sample entropy, harmonic parameters, power 
spectrum, wavelet transform, sleep stage classification, support 
vector machine 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Due to the increase in the number of sleep disorder patients, 
sleep examination is becoming prevalent. The current standard 
sleep examination used is the Polysomnograph (PSG) that 
requires several sensors on the examinee. But today more and 
more research on the development of single channel 
Electroencephalograph (EEG) sleep recording and stage 
classification is becoming more popular for simplicity and 
comfort [1].  
Traditional EEG channels for sleep recording are placed 
either at C3-A2 or C4-A1 according to the 10-20 system for 
placement of EEG electrodes on the scalp [2-3]. While 
classifying different sleep stages is done using Rechtschaffen 
and Kales (R&K) scoring manual to determine the sleep 
characteristic features of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) 
and REM sleep. NREM sleep was divided into four stages 
namely: transitional sleep (stage 1), light sleep (stage 2), slow 
wave sleep (stages 3 and 4) and paradoxical sleep also known 
as the REM sleep [4-5]. In recent sleep stage classification, it 
was noted that stage 1 and stage 2 can be combined to be light 
sleep (LS). Then stage 3 and 4 are then combined and is well 
known as deep sleep or slow wave sleep (SWS). There has 
been several researches that have used SWS as a substitute to 
the later 2 stages since there are not much significant difference 
between the two while other research preferred to use 4 stages 
to make an analysis [2,7,14]. Thus, to simplify sleep staging 
the research used 4 stages wake, LS, SWS, and REM. 
However, manual scoring is time consuming and error 
prone therefore many researchers have developed algorithms 
and programs to automatically classify sleep stages.  
One study is on the use of sample entropy. It was found to 
be able to reflect complexity of the mixture system and 
showed differences in different sleep stages. It can be noted 
that wake has the highest value of sample entropy and 
decreases as a person goes deeper into their sleep but rises 
again upon reaching REM [6]. 
Another one is an automated sleep staging program using a 
single-channel sleep EEG was developed and tested by a group 
of doctors and researchers. Tests were done on an epoch by 
epoch basis while classifying sleep from 2 states to 5 states 
using fast Fourier transform and power spectrum density and 
fuzzy algorithm. It showed promising results of more than 80% 
sensitivity and could be a good candidate for diagnostic aid and 
automatic sleep stage scoring [7]. 
Furthermore, since the EEG data is considered a non-linear 
data, Wilson et al. used the wavelet based continuous Morlet 
transform to analyze EEG data in both the time and frequency 
domain. Result from using continuous wavelet transform was 
that delta rhythm in sleep stages 2, 3, and 4 showed significant 
variations. Moreover, the K-complex waves can be highlighted 
in the averaged power spectrum density spectrum. It also noted 
a gradual increase in power from sleep stages 2 to 4 due to the 
delta wave increase [8]. While another research performed 
sleep stage classification used wavelet transform and neural 
network on 2 EEG signals at 200 Hz sampling rate. The EEG 
signals are subdivided into wavelet packets before going into 
the classifier. For the wavelet Daubechies (db20) was used [9].  
II. MATERIALS AND METHODS 
A. Data Set 
The raw EEG data were taken from the Physionet (MIT-
BIH) Polysomnographic database. The subjects are male with 
an average age of 42.24 years. The data is taken with a 
sampling rate of 250 Hz and ADC resolution of 12 bits. While 
We would like to thank National Science Council, for providing financial
support for this project through NSC 99-2221-E-218 -012. 
978-1-4244-9277-0/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE 
 
Figure 1. Sleep stage vs. sample entropy analysis 
 
Figure 2. Harmonic parameters in different stages 
 
The next figures will show a comparisson of wake stage 
and the other sleep stages. The following can be noted from the 
data. 
First, wake showed higher values of alpha and beta with 
minimal theta and delta waves. Second, LS showed a drop in 
alpha and beta with increase in the slow waves. Third, when 
SWS was reached delta and theta waves became the dominant 
waves. However, during REM it provides a quite mixed 
frequency making it challenging to determine. Data of the 
different stages are shown in figures 2. 
In future research a more in depth research on the 
amplitudes and frequency locations can be done to determine 
some certain conditions during sleep and could be possibly 
used for medical examinations. It can also be noted that using 
single channel EEG data without features from other factors is 
quite challenging. The processed values are still quite 
inconsistent would require a more advanced algorithm to do 
the classification. A table of the sample data and the GUI is 
presented below. 
 
Figure 3. Harmonic frequencies in wake stage and LS stage 
 
Figure 4. Harmonic frequencies in wake stage and SWS stage 
 
Figure 5. Harmonic frequencies in wake stage and REM stage 
IV. CONCLUSIONS 
The pattern observed from the two different methods relays 
a view on how the brain wave changes in different stages of 
sleep. The active brain activity can be observed through a high 
sample entropy, alpha and beta values. On the other hand, deep 
sleep will have higher delta and theta waves and low sample 
entropy. As for REM mixed signals can be observed but would 
be confusing to view in terms of sample entropy. Initial results 
of the training data from the developed sleep stage staging 
system were able to produce an accuracy of 96.2%. However, 
further tuning of the data and the program could be useful to 
test the sleep stage classification on other database or data.  
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 物理療法結合單通道腦電/心電自動化睡眠分期之失眠改善與評估系統開發
計畫主持人: 梁治國
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-218-012- 學門領域: 醫用電子 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 簡易型睡眠品質分析方法軟體系統
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
南臺科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
梁治國,施金波
技術說明
(中文) 本技術是有關於一種簡易型睡眠品質分析方法，其主要係以睡眠檢測儀獲取腦波
資料而輸入睡眠分析儀，且擷取腦波訊號之後進行預處理、特徵萃取分析，再對
腦波訊號作分類並進行睡眠分期，以達到簡易、快速的得到睡眠品質評估所需之
睡眠分期訊號、各期睡眠分期比以及整體睡眠效率指標值，也可配合一些失眠評
估指標，或視需求可以檢測特定異常的波形與產生一些統計分析報表，使分期評
估的結果能確實應用到精神障礙型的慢性失眠研究上，極具產業上之利用性。
(英文) This technology is related to a simple sleep quality analysis method. This sleep staging 
system can execute pre-processing, feature extraction, and then stage classification 
actions after it has collected EEG signals. Thus, it can be easy and fast to reach the 
purpose of sleep quality analysis.
產業別 其他專業、科學及技術服務業
技術/產品應用範圍 保健事業
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
未來適用於保健事業
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
競賽得獎: 
(1) 參加 99 年度教育部主辦之 2010 第六屆數位訊號處理創思設計競賽硬體系
統 
   整合組得佳作，作品名稱：單通道腦波睡眠品質評估系統。 
 
(2) 參加 99 年生物醫學工程科技研討會壁報論文比賽得優勝獎，論文題目：以
    LabVIEW 為基礎應用支持向量機分類之單通道睡眠分期系統。 
 
(3) 參加 2010 年高齡產業創意大賽，此比賽也全國公私立院校共二十五所學校
     四十一隊學生組隊報名參加，最後得亞軍，作品名稱：睡眠品質評估系統。
 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
