interconnected via voltage-controlled switches. By 
opening or closing the switches, the phase of the 
field scattered by the strips changes, resulting in 
destructive or constructive interference in the total 
scattered field. The RCS of the SSES can thus be 
controlled. An efficient search algorithm based on 
the fractional factorial designs of experiments (FFD) 
is adopted to find a suitable switch configuration 
for the SSES. The FFD estimates the effects of the 
switches on the scattering properties, and identifies 
the significant effects. For a given operational 
objective, a combinatorial optimization problem can 
be formulated in terms of these effects and solved 
for a suitable switch configuration. A SSES prototype 
was built and a series of RCS measurements were 
performed to demonstrate its capability to adaptively 
control the RCS. It is shown that the bistatic RCS 
can be significantly reduced in any specified 
direction and that the main beam maximum of the RCS 
pattern can be enhanced and steered within an angular 
range of 30 degrees. Importantly, the proposed method 
requires only one sixth of the number of experiments 
needed by a genetic algorithm to locate a comparable 
solution. The proposed SSES may find applications in 
radar systems, antenna measurements, and beam-
steering reflectarrays. 
英文關鍵詞： Adaptive systems, bistatic radar, design of 
experiments, genetic algorithms, radar cross section 
 
 2
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
結合田口式實驗計畫法之自組式散射體 
A Self-Structuring Electromagnetic Scatterer Using Taguchi Method 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-002-237 
執行期間：100 年 8 月 1 日 至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：陳士元  國立台灣大學電信工程學研究所 
參與人員：陳晏笙、洪琬婷、歐陽良昱、鄭銘賢、周瑋翔 
 
1. 中文摘要 
 本研究計畫首創一自組式電磁散射體系統，可自動改變其散射體結構，以滿足不同的工作目標，
如降低或提高特定方向上之雷達截面積(或散射場)。自組式電磁散射體本體乃由許多長短不一、末端以
壓控開關相互連接之平面金屬線段所組成。藉由切換開關的狀態，個別金屬線段所散射之電磁場相位
亦隨之改變，可使總散射場於特定方向上形成建設性或破壞性干涉，自組式電磁散射體之雷達截面積
亦得以自由調控。在此自組式電磁散射體系統中，我們成功地結合了基於局部因子實驗設計法之高效
率搜尋演算法(後稱 FFD)，以迅速找到適合的開關組態，使其散射特性滿足工作目標。FFD 可透過一
連串預先設計好的實驗組合，定量地求出個別開關對於整體散射特性的效應，並指出效應顯著(意即影
響較大)的開關為何。給定工作目標後，此一組合式最佳化問題可改寫成以各個顯著效應表示之數學
式，求解該數學式便能得到滿足工作目標之最佳開關組態。為了驗證自組式電磁散射體系統具有適應
性調整其散射場之能力，我們實作出一自組式電磁散射體系統原型(共使用三十個壓控開關)，並進行一
系列的散射場量測。實驗結果顯示：自組式電磁散射體系統於任意給定方向上之雙基雷達截面積可大
幅降低、其散射截面積場型之主波束最大值可明顯增強，且主波束方向約有三十度的掃描範圍。更重
要的是，比起結合傳統基因演算法之搜尋方法，FFD 只花了約六分之一的時間，即可找到效能接近的
開關組態，在在證明其效能之卓著。本研究計畫所獲致之結果對於雷達應用、天線量測、波束掃描之
反射陣列之實現與設計必將有所裨益。 
 值得注意的是：本研究計畫原先打算採用田口式實驗計畫法，但因田口法受限於變數量(即開關個
數)不能過多，限制了自組式電磁散射體系統之後續發展與應用；而實際應用時所使用的開關數目動輒
達數十、數百以上，局部因子實驗設計法因具有廣泛應用性，故本計畫最後改採用局部因子實驗設計
法做為自組式電磁散射體系統之搜尋演算法，此與原先計畫書中採用田口法有所出入，特此說明。除
此之外，原計畫書中所預期得到的結果均同。 
 
關鍵詞：電磁耦合、功率傳輸、射頻辨識系統、UHF 天線 
 
2. Abstract 
 A novel reconfigurable or self-structuring electromagnetic scatterer (SSES) is proposed. The SSES can 
alter its electrical shape to fulfill various operational objectives, such as radar cross section (RCS) reduction or 
enhancement. The SSES template comprises segments of metallic thin strips interconnected via 
voltage-controlled switches. By opening or closing the switches, the phase of the field scattered by the strips 
changes, resulting in destructive or constructive interference in the total scattered field. The RCS of the SSES 
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 60, NO. 4, APRIL 2012 1931
A Self-Structuring Electromagnetic Scatterer
Yen-Sheng Chen, Yao-Chia Chan, Hsueh-Jyh Li, Edward J. Rothwell, Raoul O. Ouedraogo, Student Member, IEEE,
and Shih-Yuan Chen
Abstract—A novel self-structuring electromagnetic scatterer
(SSES) is proposed. The SSES can alter its electrical shape to
fulfill various operational objectives, such as radar cross section
(RCS) reduction or enhancement. The SSES template comprises
segments of metallic thin strips interconnected via voltage-con-
trolled switches. By opening or closing the switches, the phase of
the field scattered by the strips changes, resulting in destructive
or constructive interference in the total scattered field. The RCS
of the SSES can thus be controlled. An efficient search algorithm
based on the fractional factorial designs of experiments (FFD)
is adopted to find a suitable switch configuration for the SSES.
The FFD estimates the effects of the switches on the scattering
properties, and identifies the significant effects. For a given op-
erational objective, a combinatorial optimization problem can
be formulated in terms of these effects and solved for a suitable
switch configuration. A SSES prototype was built and a series of
RCS measurements were performed to demonstrate its capability
to adaptively control the RCS. It is shown that the bistatic RCS
can be significantly reduced in any specified direction and that the
main beam maximum of the RCS pattern can be enhanced and
steered within an angular range of 30 . Importantly, the proposed
method requires only one sixth of the number of experiments
needed by a genetic algorithm to locate a comparable solution.
Index Terms—Adaptive systems, bistatic radar, design of exper-
iments, genetic algorithms, radar cross section.
I. INTRODUCTION
C ONTROLLING the scattering properties of a scatterer isessential in many microwave and antenna applications
[1]. Two principal applications are radar cross section (RCS)
reduction and RCS enhancement. In radar applications and an-
tenna measurements, it is desired to reduce the RCS of an ob-
ject so that it is invisible to the radar or the receiving antenna.
Typically, RCS reduction can be achieved by three methods:
shaping, cancelling, and absorbing. Shaping requires a careful
Manuscript received August 30, 2011; accepted November 26, 2011. Date of
publication January 31, 2012; date of current version April 06, 2012. This work
was supported in part by the National Science Council, Taiwan, under Contract
NSC 100-2221-E-002-237, and in part by the National Taiwan University under
Excellent Research Project NTU-ERP-98R0062-01.
Y.-S. Chen and Y.-C. Chan are with the Graduate Institute of Communication
Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan.
H.-J. Li is with the Department of Electrical Engineering and the Graduate
Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei
10617, Taiwan (e-mail: hjli@ew.ee.ntu.edu.tw).
E. J. Rothwell and R. O. Ouedraogo are with the Department of Electrical
and Computer Engineering, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 48824
USA (e-mail: rothwell@egr.msu.edu).
S.-Y. Chen, is with the Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering,
National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan (e-mail: sychen@cc.ee.ntu.
edu.tw).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TAP.2012.2186272
geometric design of the scatterer [2]–[4], while cancelling is ac-
complished by loading the scatterer with suitable impedances
[5]. Both of these methods produce a nonuniform phase dis-
tribution of the scattered field on the scatterer such that the
total scattered field can be cancelled in the specified direction,
thereby reducing the RCS. In contrast, absorbing is achieved
by coating the scatterer with specific radar absorbing materials
that can transfer the energy carried by the incident field into heat
[6]–[8]. By these three methods, the RCS of a scatterer can be
effectively reduced in various scenarios, but in each the scat-
terer is unable to adapt its structure, shape, or configuration in
response to changes in its environment or operational objective.
For beam-steering antenna applications, it is desired to en-
hance the RCS of a scatterer (the reflector) in a predetermined
direction and to adaptively steer the main beam of the RCS pat-
tern into different directions. The former demand can be met by
using corner/parabolic reflectors or reflectarrays, which increase
the RCS toward the desired direction by collimating the scat-
tered field, while the latter, a beam-steering reflector, can be re-
alized by using varactor diodes or phase shifters [9]–[11]. How-
ever, an adaptive scatterer that can accommodate both the needs
of RCS reduction and enhancement has not yet been introduced.
In this paper, a novel self-structuring electromagnetic scat-
terer (SSES) is proposed to achieve the operational objectives
of both RCS reduction and enhancement. The SSES can adapt
itself to new environments and/or new operational objectives,
which, for instance, may require a null or a main beam toward
a specified direction regardless of the angle of incidence of the
incident wave. Based on the concept of self-structuring devices
[12]–[15], the proposed SSES utilizes thin metallic strips as
the elemental scatterers, interconnected via voltage-controlled
switches. Each switch is either closed or open, resulting in a
large number of potential electrical configurations for the SSES,
and each configuration exhibits its own scattering property. For
the SSES to configure itself into a suitable switch configuration,
binary search algorithms, such as the genetic algorithm (GA),
simulated annealing (SA), and ant colony optimization (ACO),
could be used just as with other self-structuring devices [16].
Some preliminary simulation results for the SSES using a GA
have been presented in [17]. However, it has been found that a
method based on the fractional factorial designs of experiments
technique (FFD) [18], [19] outperforms GA and is thus used in
this work. A prototype SSES was implemented and a series of
bistatic RCS measurements were performed to verify the con-
cepts of adaptive RCS control, including minimizing or max-
imizing the RCS in any specific direction and steering the re-
flected beam within an angular range. For comparison, both the
FFD-based method and a GA are used as the search algorithm.
0018-926X/$31.00 © 2012 IEEE
CHEN et al.: SELF-STRUCTURING ELECTROMAGNETIC SCATTERER 1933
Fig. 3. (a) Top view of the proposed SSES template and (b) enlarged side view
of switch connections.
the structural symmetry of the SSES template with respect to
the - plane leads to equal capability of RCS control along the
directions symmetric to the - plane. Note that the proposed
SSES template is only a proof of concept and other feasible lay-
outs or structures are envisioned.
III. IMPLEMENTATION OF SEARCH ALGORITHM
Since a large number of possible switch configurations exist
for the SSES template, an efficient binary search algorithm is
needed to find one with acceptable performance. Traditionally,
a GA is used in self-structuring devices [12]–[15]. It requires re-
cursive and intensive computations and treats the effects of the
switches as unknown at the onset of operation. Without prior
knowledge of the nature of the problem, the self-structuring de-
vices evolve into an acceptable switch configuration gradually
and iteratively by specific operators. The GA has been shown
to be more efficient than a random search [16], and this further
indicates that the correlations between different switch config-
urations do exist and that an acceptable configuration can be
found by performing some operations on nearby promising con-
figurations. However, as the number of switches increases, the
solution domain grows explosively, and the GA spends exces-
sive search time without improvement in efficiency.
In this work, a systematic and efficient approach based on
the fractional factorial designs of experiments (FFD) is pro-
posed. It exploits the correlations between switch configura-
tions to significantly shorten the search time. For comparison,
the GA is also used to find a suitable switch configuration for
the SSES. The objective function is defined as the bistatic RCS
of the template, where is the incident angle of
the source plane wave, and denotes the direction for RCS
optimization. The operational objective here is either to mini-
mize or to maximize , corresponding to the cases of
RCS reduction and RCS enhancement, respectively.
The FFD is a systematic and efficient statistical method to
study the characteristics of a process or a system. Since the
variation in is caused by opening or closing the
switches ( ), the SSES problem can be treated as
a system, whose input factors are the ON/OFF states of the
30 switches, and whose response variable is the bistatic RCS
. The influence of the switch states on the response
is called effect, which can be classified as a com-
bination of the main effects and hierarchical interactions. The
main effect of the switch , which is denoted as , is defined
as the change in the objective function produced by
switching from open to closed. Obviously, the main effect
does not always hold constant when one of the other switches,
say ( ), alters its state. This is due to the interaction be-
tween the two switches. The two-factor interaction of switches
and , denoted as , is defined as the change in the main
effect produced by switching from open to closed. Simi-
larly, any higher-order interactions can be defined as well. For
example, the three-factor interaction ( ) is de-
fined as the change in the two-factor interaction produced
by switching from open to closed. Since higher-order inter-
actions are typically much smaller than the main effects and
the two-factor interactions, they can be neglected. In fact, not
only the SSES problem but most systems are dominated by only
some of the main effects and two-factor interactions. This is
known as the sparsity-of-effects principle [18]. Therefore, the
FFD requires only a small subset of experiments, yet efficiently
uses the experimental results to analyze the SSES system. An
experiment here means to set a specific switch configuration for
the SSES template and measure its .
For convenience in the statistical analysis, the open and
closed states of the switches are encoded into and ,
respectively. The state value of switch is denoted by ,
and the switch configuration of the SSES is represented by
the string . The proposed FFD-based search
algorithm consists of two stages:
A. Design of Experiments
A series of experiments or switch configurations are care-
fully chosen so that sufficient information about the objective
function can be collected for further analysis. To
uniquely estimate all the main effects and two-factor interac-
tions, a resolution V design is needed [18], [19]. Also, to re-
duce the aberration associated with confounding higher-order
interactions, a minimum aberration design should be used. For
in the SSES problem, Xu’s minimum aber-
ration design of resolution V [24] is adopted, which requires
only . The switch config-
urations can be divided into two parts: and
. The 1024 experiments are in essence the
full factorial design for the first 10 switches
but with the states of the other 20 switches
CHEN et al.: SELF-STRUCTURING ELECTROMAGNETIC SCATTERER 1935
Fig. 5. System setup for measuring the bistatic RCS (pattern) of SSES.
is set to be 2 m, which satisfies the far-field condition while
keeping a reasonably large dynamic range for RCS measure-
ments. In the cases of normal and oblique incidence, the trans-
mitting horn antenna that is connected to port 1 of the VNA is
fixed at and 30 on the semicircular orbit, respec-
tively. The receiving horn antenna connected to port 2 of the
VNA is placed on the orbit at the specified objective angle
for RCS reduction or enhancement. Both the transmitting and
receiving antennas are oriented to be -polarized and face the
SSES template.
After performing the 1024 designed experiments based on the
setup, the proposed method analyzes the scattering properties
of the SSES in the direction and solves for a good switch
configuration for a given operational objective. Note that for a
fixed objective angle , no extra experiments and analyses are
needed for the SSES to adapt itself to various operational objec-
tives, such as RCS reduction, RCS enhancement, or achieving
any targeted RCS level in between. The proposed method only
requires a re-solving of the corresponding combinatorial opti-
mization problem based on (1). In contrast, a GA requires the
entire on-site optimization process to be repeated for new ob-
jectives. Obviously, the proposed method is superior to the GA
in this regard, not to mention that far fewer experiments are
needed.
After a suitable switch configuration is found, the 30 switches
on the SSES template are set accordingly, and the associated
bistatic RCS pattern in the - plane is measured for
. The RCS is computed by
(2)
where is the transmission coefficient measured by the VNA,
is the radius of the semicircular orbit, and are the gains
of the transmitting and receiving horn antennas, respectively,
and is the free-space wavelength. In this work, the unitless
RCS that is normalized to , or , is used.
As a reference for RCS reduction and enhancement, a rect-
angular copper plate of the same area as the SSES template
(160 205 ) was also fabricated. The RCS patterns in
the - plane were measured for normal and oblique incidence
( and 30 , respectively,) and are shown in Fig. 6. For
normal incidence, the pattern exhibits a maximal normalized
RCS value of 8.56 dB in the backscattering direction ( ),
Fig. 6. Bistatic RCS patterns measured in – plane for (a) normal ( )
and (b) oblique ( ) incidence, respectively.
while for oblique incidence the RCS pattern peaks in the spec-
ular direction ( ) with a value of 6.85 dB. The two
cases are used as the references, to which the effectiveness of
the SSES in reducing or enhancing its RCS is compared. Fig. 6
also shows the RCS patterns of the SSES template measured
when all switches are open and all switches are closed.
The capabilities of the SSES are investigated by employing
the proposed FFD-based method. For comparison, the GA is
also used. As discussed in the preceding section, the proposed
method requires only 1024 designed experiments in total since
. For the GA, empirical parameters are adopted such
that the population size , the number of generations
, and the probabilities for crossover and mutation
and , respectively. This indicates that as
many as 6000 experiments might be needed by GA to locate an
acceptable switch configuration. The GA with , but
the other parameters unchanged, is also employed so that the
total number of experiments needed is comparable to that of the
proposed method. The performance of the best configurations
found by all three approaches are compared.
A. RCS Reduction
First, the SSES is set up to search for a reduced RCS at an ob-
jective angle when illuminated by a normally incident plane
wave ( ). To demonstrate the SSES capabilities to re-
duce RCS in various directions, ten objective angles are chosen:
with an increment of 10 . The angles in the
quadrant are omitted here due to the struc-
tural symmetry and the angle of incidence . In each case,
the FFD-based method and the GAs are employed to find a suit-
able switch configuration for the SSES template. After a suitable
SSES configuration is found, the RCS in the objective angle is
then measured. Results of the ten cases are tabulated in Table I.
CHEN et al.: SELF-STRUCTURING ELECTROMAGNETIC SCATTERER 1937
Fig. 9. Bistatic RCS patterns of the SSES with its RCS minimized in various objective angles for normal incidence ( ). (a) , (b) ,
(c) , (d) , (e) , and (f) .
TABLE II
RESULTS OF THE SSES PROTOTYPE FOR RCS REDUCTION WHEN
SSES configurations attained by the proposed method and the
two GAs are compared in Figs. 9 and 10. Since similar trends
TABLE III
RESULTS OF THE SSES PROTOTYPE FOR RCS ENHANCEMENT WHEN
can be observed in various cases, only some are shown here:
, 70 , 50 , 30 , 10 and 0 for normal incidence and
, 60 , 30 , 0 , , , , , and
for oblique incidence. Obviously, neither the proposed method
nor GA could locate a switch configuration exhibiting a satis-
factorily reduced RCS in the specular direction. Nonetheless,
the SSES can adapt itself to have small RCS in any specific
direction except for the specular one.
B. RCS Enhancement
For normal incidence, five objective angles , 5 ,
10 , 15 , and 20 are considered. The corresponding negative
angles are omitted because of the structural symmetry in the
SSES template. In each case, the proposed FFD-based method
and the GAs with and 10 are used to find a suitable
switch configuration. The RCS values of the located SSES con-
figurations measured in the associated objective directions are
listed in Table III. The amount of RCS enhancement (RCSE) is
CHEN et al.: SELF-STRUCTURING ELECTROMAGNETIC SCATTERER 1939
Fig. 11. Bistatic RCS patterns of the SSES with its RCS maximized in various objective angles for normal incidence ( ). (a) , (b)
, (c) , (d) , and (e) .
Fig. 12. Bistatic RCS patterns of the SSES with its RCS maximized in various objective angles for oblique incidence ( ). (a) , (b)
, (c) , (d) , and (e) .
value of RCSE decreases as the objective angle devi-
ates from the specular direction. However, even in the case
that the objective angle is equal to the angle of incidence
, the SSES can still slightly enhance its
RCS. Fig. 12 shows the measured bistatic RCS patterns of
the SSES configurations found. One can see that the SSES
is able to adaptively steer the main beam within the range
. Again, this angular range is limited by
the tunable phase range of the metallic strips. To increase the
steerable angular range, we need a new constituent scatterer in
the SSES template that provides a wider tunable phase range,
such as a rectangular metallic patch on a grounded dielectric
CHEN et al.: SELF-STRUCTURING ELECTROMAGNETIC SCATTERER 1941
[12] C. M. Coleman, E. J. Rothwell, J. E. Ross, and L. L. Nagy, “Self-struc-
turing antennas,” IEEE Antennas Propagat. Mag., vol. 44, no. 3, pp.
11–23, Jun. 2002.
[13] L. Greetis, R. Ouedraogo, B. Greetis, and E. J. Rothwell, “A self-struc-
turing patch antenna: Simulation and prototype,” IEEE Antennas Prop-
agat. Mag., vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 114–123, Feb. 2010.
[14] R. O. Ouedraogo, E. J. Rothwell, S.-Y. Chen, and B. J. Greetis, “An
automatically tunable cavity resonator system,” IEEE Trans Microw.
Theory Tech., vol. 58, no. 4, pp. 894–902, Apr. 2010.
[15] R. O. Ouedraogo, E. J. Rothwell, S.-Y. Chen, and A. Temme, “A self-
tuning electromagnetic shutter,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol.
59, no. 2, pp. 513–519, Feb. 2011.
[16] C. M. Coleman, E. J. Rothwell, and J. E. Ross, “Investigation of sim-
ulated annealing, ant-colony optimization, and genetic algorithms for
self-structuring antennas,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 52,
no. 4, pp. 1007–1014, Apr. 2004.
[17] S.-Y. Chen, R. O. Ouedraogo, B. J. Greetis, and E. J. Rothwell, “A re-
configurable electromagnetic scatterer,” in Proc. IEEE AP-S Int. Symp.
URSI Radio Science Meeting, Charleston, SC, Jun. 2009.
[18] D. C.Montgometry, Design and Analysis of Experiments. NewYork:
Wiley, 1997.
[19] R. W. Mee, A Comprehensive Guide to Factorial Two-Level Experi-
mentation. Berlin, Germany: Springer, 2009.
[20] K. Barkeshli and J. L. Volakis, “Electromagnetic scattering from thin
strips–Part I: Analytical solution for wide and narrow strips,” IEEE
Trans. Educ., vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 100–106, Feb. 2004.
[21] K. Barkeshli and J. L. Volakis, “Electromagnetic scattering from thin
strips–Part II: Numerical solution for thin strips of arbitrary size,” IEEE
Trans. Educ., vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 107–113, Feb. 2004.
[22] M. D. Khashkind and L. A. Vainshteyn, “Diffraction of plane waves
by a slit and a tape,” Radio Eng. Electr., vol. 9, pp. 1492–1502, 1964.
[23] C. M. Butler and D. R. Wilton, “General analysis of narrow strips and
slots,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. AP–28, pp. 42–48, Jan.
1980.
[24] H. Xu, “Algorithmic construction of efficient fractional factorial de-
signs with large run sizes,” Technometrics, vol. 51, no. 3, pp. 262–277,
Aug. 2009.
[25] A. Colorni, M. Dorigo, F. Maffioli, V. Maniezzo, G. Righini, and
M. Trubian, “Heuristics from nature for hard combinatorial optimiza-
tion problems,” Int. Trans. Oper. Res., vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 1–21, 1996.
[26] J. A. Snyman, Practical Mathematical Optimization: An Introduction
to Basic Optimization Theory and Classical and New Gradient-Based
Algorithms. Berlin, Germany: Springer, 2005.
Yen-Sheng Chen was born in Taichung, Taiwan,
on January 4, 1985. He received the B.S. degree
in electrical engineering in 2007, and the M.S.
degree in communication engineering in 2009, from
the National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
He is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree in com-
munication engineering from the National Taiwan
University, Taiwan.
His research interests include the area of near-field
communication systems, RFID antennas design, self-
structuring devices, and optimization techniques in
electromagnetic.
Yao-Chia Chan was born in Taipei, Taiwan, on Au-
gust 31, 1985. He received the B.S. degree in elec-
trical engineering and the B.A. degree in economics,
both in 2009, and the M.S. degree in communication
engineering in 2011, from the National Taiwan Uni-
versity, Taipei, Taiwan. He is currently enrolling in
the Republic of China Army for the mandatory mili-
tary service (one year).
His research interests include the area of bio-in-
spired optimization theories and algorithms,
multiple-input multiple-output wireless systems, and
wireless channel measurement and characterization.
Hsueh-Jyh Li was born in Yun-Lin, Taiwan, Re-
public of China, on August 11, 1949. He received the
B.S.E.E. degree from National Taiwan University,
Taipei, Taiwan, in 1971, the M. S. E. E. degree in
1980, and the Ph.D degree from the University of
Pennsylvania. Philadelphia, in 1987.
Since 1973, he has been with the Department of
Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University,
where he is a Professor. He was the Director of the
Communication Research Center at NTU from 1995
to 2000. He was the Chairman of the Graduate Insti-
tute of Communication Engineering at NTU from 1997 to 2000. His main re-
search interests are in microstrip antennas, radar scattering, microwave imaging,
and wireless communication.
Dr. Li received the Distinguished Research Award from the National Science
Council, Republic of China, in 1992.
Edward J. Rothwell was born in Grand Rapids, MI,
on September 8, 1957. He received the B.S. degree
in electrical engineering from Michigan Technolog-
ical University, Houghton, in 1979, the M.S. degree
in electrical engineering and the degree of electrical
engineer from Stanford University, Stanford, CA, in
1980 and 1982, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree in
electrical engineering from Michigan State Univer-
sity, East Lansing, in 1985, where he held the Dean’s
Distinguished Fellowship.
From 1979 to 1982, he was with the Microwave
and Power Tube Division, Raytheon Co., Waltham, MA, working on low power
traveling wave tubes, and, in 1985, he was with MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Lex-
ington, MA. He was at Michigan State University, East Lansing, from 1985 to
1990, as an Assistant Professor of electrical engineering, from 1990 to 1998, as
an Associate Professor, and, since 1998, as a Professor.
Prof. Rothwell received the John D. Withrow award for teaching excellence
from the College of Engineering at Michigan State University, in 1991, 1996
and 2006, theWithrow Distinguished Scholar Award in 2007, the MSU Alumni
Club of Mid Michigan Quality in Undergraduate Teaching Award, in 2003, and
in 2005 he received the Southeast Michigan IEEE Section Award for Most Out-
standing Professional.
Raoul O. Ouedraogo (S’08) was born in Oua-
gadougou, Burkina Faso, in 1982. He received the
B.Sc. degree from Southern Illinois University, Car-
bondale, IL, in 2006, theM.Sc. degree fromMichigan
State University, East Lansing, in 2008, and is cur-
rently working toward the Ph.D. degree at Michigan
State University, all in electrical engineering.
His current research interests include metamate-
rials, small antennas, self-structuring devices, elec-
tromagnetic radiation, and scattering.
Shih-Yuan Chen was born in Changhua, Taiwan, in
May 1978. He received the B.S. degree in electrical
engineering in 2000, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
in communication engineering in 2002 and 2005, re-
spectively, all from the National Taiwan University,
Taipei, Taiwan.
From 2005–2006, Dr. Chen has been a Postdoc-
torate Research Fellow with the Graduate Institute of
Communication Engineering, National Taiwan Uni-
versity, working on the 60-GHz switched-beam cir-
cularly-polarized antenna module. In July 2006, he
joined the faculty of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Graduate
Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University, where
he is currently an associate professor. From August 2008-July 2009, he visited
the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Michigan State
University, East Lansing, MI. His current research interests include the design
and analysis of microstrip antennas/arrays, dielectric lens antennas, reflectar-
rays, near-field communication systems, metamaterial and composite right-/left-
handed transmission lines, and self-structuring microwave devices.
 5
附 錄 
2011/8/1-2012/7/31 期間發表之 IEEE 期刊論文： 
1. Yu-Ru Huang, Hung-Pin Chen, Pei-Chin Chiu, Jen-Inn Chyi, Bing-Hsiao Wang, Shih-Yuan Chen, and 
Chi-Kuang Sun, “Propagation, Resonance, and Radiation on Terahertz Optoelectronic Integrated 
Circuits,” IEEE Photonics Journal, vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 699-706, June 2012. 
2. Yen-Sheng Chen, Yao-Chia Chan, Hsueh-Jyh Li, Edward J. Rothwell, Raoul O. Ouedraogo, and 
Shih-Yuan Chen, “A Self-Structuring Electromagnetic Scatterer,” IEEE Transactions on Antennas and 
Propagation, vol. 60, no. 4, pp. 1931-1941, Apr. 2012. 
3. Yen-Sheng Chen, Shih-Yuan Chen, and Hsueh-Jyh Li, “A Novel Dual-Antenna Structure for UHF RFID 
Tags,” IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 59, no. 11, pp. 3950-3960, Nov. 2011. 
4. You-Chieh Chen, Shih-Yuan Chen, and Powen Hsu, “A Modified CPW-Fed Slot Loop Antenna with 
Reduced Cross-Polarization and Size,” IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, vol. 10, pp. 
1124-1126, Oct. 2011. 
5. Chien-Pai Lai, Shih-Chia Chiu, Hsueh-Jyh Li, and Shih-Yuan Chen, “Zeroth-Order Resonator Antennas 
Using Inductor-Loaded and Capacitor-Loaded CPWs,” IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, 
vol. 59, no. 9, pp. 3448-3453, Sep. 2011. 
2011/8/1-2012/7/31 期間發表之國際研討會論文： 
1. Liang-Yu Ou Yang and Shih-Yuan Chen, “Microwave Surface Plasmon Effect Realized by Uniaxial Wire 
Medium,” IEEE AP-S International Symposium and URSI Radio Science Meeting, Chicago, Illinois, 
July 2012. 
2. Chien-Pai Lai, Shih-Yuan Chen, and Hsueh-Jyh Li, “Design Consideration of Closely Spaced 
Polarization- and Pattern-Diversity Antenna Pair,” IEEE AP-S International Symposium and URSI Radio 
Science Meeting, Chicago, Illinois, July 2012. 
3. Wan-Ting Hung and Shih-Yuan Chen, “A Varactor-Loaded Cross Dipole Unit Cell for Circularly 
Polarized Beam-Steering Reflectarray,” IEEE AP-S International Symposium and URSI Radio Science 
Meeting, Chicago, Illinois, July 2012. 
4. Ming-Hsien Cheng, Chien-Pai Lai, Han-Chee Yen, Kuo-Hsien Liao, and Shih-Yuan Chen, “Design of 
Antenna on Package Exploiting Self-Resonance of Carrier Board,” IEEE AP-S International Symposium 
and URSI Radio Science Meeting, Chicago, Illinois, July 2012. 
5. Yen-Sheng Chen, Yao-Chia Chan, Hsueh-Jyh Li, and Shih-Yuan Chen, “General Rules for Objective 
Functions in Wide- and Multi-Band Pixelized Antenna Design,” IEEE AP-S International Symposium 
and URSI Radio Science Meeting, Chicago, Illinois, July 2012. 
6. Shih-Chia Chiu and Shih-Yuan Chen, “Circularly Polarized Resonant Cavity Antenna Using 
Single-Layer Double-Sided FSS Superstrate,” IEEE AP-S International Symposium and URSI Radio 
Science Meeting, Chicago, Illinois, July 2012. 
7. Chiung-Hao Chiu and Shih-Yuan Chen, “A Novel Broadband Aperture-Coupled Microstrip Patch 
Antenna,” 2011 Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference, Melbourne, Australia, pp. 709-712, Dec. 2011. 
8. Chien-Pai Lai, Shih-Yuan Chen, and Hsueh-Jyh Li, “Radiation Enhancement of Compact Folded Slot 
Antenna Using Capacitor-Loaded CPW,” The 41st European Microwave Conference (EuMC 2011), 
Manchester, UK, pp. 246-249, Oct. 2011. 
9. Shih-Yuan Chen and Siou-Yi Shen, “Frequency-Agile High-Impedance Surface and the Antenna 
Application,” The 64th Joint Conference of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in Kyushu, p. 91, Saga, 
Japan, Sept. 2011. (INVITED TALK) 
以及論文審查之回覆應對之道。下午，則參加了 Millimeterwave and THz, Devices, 
Systems and Applications 小節；Coffee Break 時，本人前往 Poster Session 參觀，其中
有幾篇跟複合式左右手傳輸線及頻率選擇表面相關的海報展示，令人印象深刻。結束
後，我隨即搭車前往墨爾本機場，於 12 月 8 日晚間 6:00 分搭乘 Qantas 航空公司 JQ-524
班機，由墨爾本飛往雪梨。接著於當地時間 2011 年 12 月 10 日晚間 10:00 分，搭乘中
華航空 CI-52 班機，由雪梨國際機場出發，於台灣時間 2011 年 12 月 11 日清晨 4:30
分左右抵達桃園國際機場，結束了這次收穫豐碩的研討會。 
二、與會心得 
在本次的研討會中，有多篇論文探討微波系統之潛在應用，包含如無線傳能，生
醫診斷、室內精準定位等，其中往往牽涉到從關鍵組元件之開發、系統整合乃至於應
用設計等，尤其是後兩者，乃當前台灣研發實力較為不足的地方，值得國內的決策高
層思考。畢竟，國內的產學研發能量其實不輸國外的頂尖研究單位，只是我們過於聚
焦在元件的設計製造上，若能多多鼓勵產學界發展各式系統應用，相信對於台灣的關
鍵人才培養與未來產業發展必將產生莫大的助益。此外，跨領域整合亦是大勢所趨，
許多國外的研究單位進行各種大型系統的開發，其中更結合了不同工程領域，甚至生
物、數學、化學等；而不同的系統應用也讓研發成果更有價值且實際。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
省略。 
四、建議 
感謝 貴單位補助此次參與會議之費用，相關承辦人員的熱忱與鼎力協助，本人
深表感謝之意。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
大會議程、論文叢集 USB 隨身碟一個及展示會場相關資料。 
六、其他 
無。 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳士元 計畫編號：100-2221-E-002-237- 
計畫名稱：結合田口式實驗計畫法之自組式散射體 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 5 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 9 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 3 100%  
博士生 3 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
