 2
合作企業簡介: 
合作企業名稱：勝光發展股份有限公司 
計畫聯絡人：郭迪良 協理 
資本額： 
產品簡介：Clear heater, Electroluminescence device, Touch panel 
網址： http://www.superoptics.com.tw/     電話：(06)2314222 
研究摘要(500 字以內)： 
隨著資訊顯示器時代的來臨，傳統的陰極射線管顯示器其厚重的本體非
常不便於攜帶，已漸被平面顯示器取代。平面顯示器技術如液晶顯示器，電漿
顯示器，電激發光顯示器，二極體顯示陣列及場放射顯示器在近年來受到熱烈
的討論與研究。其中場放射技術的應用可以設計成一平面光源或者為一顯示
器，因此它的發展非常令人期待。 
但場放射技術一直無法廣泛應用，原因之一是它的場放射特性一直無法
獲得改善。最早被提出的 Spindt type微尺寸陣列雖然是首度實現場發射顯示的
技術，但它的陣列特性卻限制了顯示器的尺寸，在產品製作時，微影與薄膜技
術均會受到尺寸上的限制。因此，業界開始積極開發可取代 Spindt場發射元件
的替代技術。基本上都以碳元素為基礎，其中一種以鑽石為場放射極者，可以
得到極低的啟動電壓，不過在 1991 年，研究人員發現，以奈米結構合成的石
墨，或是以奈米碳管(carbon nanotubes, CNTs)做為場放射子，則能夠得到更好
的場放射效率，此乃因奈米碳管具有高的寬高比，極小之尖端半徑，中空之管
形，高的機械強度和優良的化學穩定性，因此極適合當為場放射陰極。此外，
奈米碳管之成本比鑽石低得多，至此遂使奈米碳管技術成為新一代場放射技術
之熱門材料。 
本計畫，我們利用極簡易之網印製程技術來製作奈米碳管場放射陰極
(CNT-field emission cathode)。使用網印技術不僅能夠降低場放射顯示器之生產
成本，也能增加顯示器之發光強度，更具有大面積製程之發展潛力。我們採用
多層奈米碳管(multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNT))作為場發射材料。首先
將 MWCNT 以氧化方法加以純化，再加上膠合劑混合成漿料，經網印、乾燥
製程後，便得 CNT場放射陰極。我們改變膠合劑之種類及 CNT之重量百分比
來探討奈米碳管場放射陰極之場放射特性。再者，我們採用表面處理來改善奈
米碳管之特性，並以真空電性測試系統來評估 CNT 場放射陰極之電子放射能
 4
Field Emission Characteristic of Screen-Printed Carbon Nanotube Cathode 
Su-Hua Yang  Pao-Fa Wang 
Department of Electronic Engineering, National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences 
E-mail: shya@cc.kuas.edu.tw, FAX: (07) 3811182, Tel: (07) 3814526 ext 5631 
 
Abstract 
In this study, carbon nanotube (CNTs) 
film field emission sites were fabricated by 
screen-printed method. The effect of surface 
treatments on the field emission characteristic 
of CNTs was investigated. The optimum field 
emission condition was obtained when 3 wt% 
CNTs film was heat treated with low 
temperature at 200  for 3h, and high ℃
temperature at 300  for 3h. UV irradiation ℃
treatment improved the emission characteristic 
of CNTs via increased in emission current and 
emission field sites, hence the turn-on electric 
field was reduced, it was 4.1 V/µm for CNTs 
samples with UV irradiation treatment for 20 
min. The emission current density was 2680 
µA/cm2 at 7.7 V/µm with phosphor anode. 
The sample prepared with UV irradiation 
treatment, the long-term emission stability 
was significantly improved  
1. Introduction 
Carbon nanotubes exhibit excellent 
physical and chemical properties as a 
quasi-one dimensional material. According to 
their extreme properties, the application of 
carbon nanotubes are under investigation, 
such as electron field emitters1,2, probes of 
scanning-type microscope3,4, gas storage 
material5-7, gas sensor, electrode material of 
secondary batteries8, and capacitors9.  
A graphitic needlelike structure, first 
discovered on the cathode surfaces in a arc 
discharge designed to produce C60 and 
fullerenes, was given the name carbon 
nanotubes because of its nano-size and tubular 
morphology. The nanotubes are 2 to 25 nm in 
diameter and many microns in length. Carbon 
nanotubes can be divided into two categories. 
One is called multi-wall carbon nanotubes 
(MWNTs). The MWNTs are close hollow 
graphite fibers, except that they have a much 
higher degree of structural perfection. They 
are made of sheets of carbon atoms with a 
cylindrical shape. The space between the 
CNTs layers varies from 0.335 to 0.344 nm. 
Another one is made up of just a single layer 
called the single-wall carbon nanotues 
(SWNTs). SWNTs are close to fullerenes in 
size and have a single-layer cylinder 
extending from end to end. According to 
Fowler-Nodiem (F-N) theory, the electric field 
at the apex of a needle-shaped tip is enhanced 
by a factor β = h/r, where h is the height of the 
tip and r is the radius of curvature of the tip 
apex. They are typically made as threads 
about 10 - 100 nm in diameter with a high 
aspect ratio. The geometric properties, 
coupled with their high mechanical strength 
and chemical stability, make carbon nanotubes 
attractive as electron field emitters. 
2. Experiment procedures 
We used the multi-walled carbon nanotube 
(MWCNT) synthesized by ECHO 
CHEMICAL Co. Ltd as field emission 
material. In order to get a good printing 
property. So the MWCNT was dispersed by 
ultrasonic with alcohol for about 1 hour. Then 
the MWCNT with ethylcellulose were mixed 
using ultrasonic for about 1 hour. After the 
MWCNT was well-distributed, the MWCNT 
 6
Most of the binder was remained on the 
ITO glass when 3 wt% CNTs films was 
treated for 1 h at 300℃, so the CNTs sample 
was almost not turn-on. The amount of binder 
in CNTs film which treated at 350℃ for 40 
min was remained more than that one treated 
at 300℃ for 3 h. Because of the binder effects, 
the turn-on electric field of CNTs was high.  
The SEM images for 1.5 wt% CNTs treated 
at higher temperature of 350  for 40 min ℃
indicated that the binder was almost remained 
on the ITO glass. In this condition, the CNTs 
samples were almost not turn-on because the 
carbon nanotube was possibly covered by 
most of the binder. 
The turn-on electric fields were 4.6, 5.2, 
5.3 V/µm for 3, 6.5 and 9 wt% CNTs contents, 
respectively. The turn-on electric field was 
higher than 8 V/µm for 1.5 wt% CNTs 
condition. For low CNTs density of 1.5 wt%, 
the turn-on electric field was very high owing 
to there was almost no electron emissions 
measured but vacuum sparking. For high 
density of CNTs samples, 6.5 and 9 wt%, the 
turn-on electric field was high due to the 
interaction of electric field among the carbon 
nanotubes. It was found that the 3 wt% CNTs 
film had the best field emission property, 
including the turn-on electric filed and 
emission current density. And the emission 
current density approached 0.1 mA/cm2 at 
applied electric field of 6.1 V/µm. From field 
emission measurement, it showed that the 
density of CNTs was an important factor. An 
optimal density of CNTs could exhibit the 
optimal emission characteristics of emission 
current density and turn-on electric field for 
the field emission display. When CNTs 
content was 3 wt%, it had the optimum 
distance between carbon nanotubes. Revealed 
that the parameters of 300  and 3 h were the℃  
optimum heat treatment conditions. 
For evaluation the effect of thickness on 
the field emission property of CNTs, the CNTs 
pastes were screen-printed onto the ITO glass 
through a mesh for once, twice, and thrice 
printed, and subsequently they were dried at 
low temperature of 200  for 3 h and high ℃
temperature of to 300  for 3 h to remove the ℃
organic materials in the paste. The thicknesses 
were 0.2, 0.5, and 0.7 µm for once, twice, and 
thrice-printed films. We found the buried 
carbon nanotubes in twice and thrice-printed 
films were hardly shown field emission, with 
high turn-on electric field resulted from the 
buried CNTs in the binder difficultly 
protruded from the surface; The turn-on 
electric field was about 7.5 V/µm. 
For improving the field emission property 
of CNTs, the sample for once-printed film was 
treated by adhesive taping. However the CNT 
on the once-printed film treated by adhesive 
taping was very easily to be removed out. 
SEM images of the twice and thrice-printed 
films treated by adhesive taping showed the 
treatment process could remove the majority 
of binder, but it might break the pattern of the 
samples or separate the carbon nanotubes on 
the ITO glass. Because of the destruction of 
the patterned shape, the turn-on electric field 
of the treated samples was high nearly to 5 
V/µm. However, the treated samples had more 
upright CNTs from the surface. So the current 
density was 312 µA/cm2 at 6.4 V/µm for 
thrice-printed film treated by adhesive taping 
process.  
The field enhancement factor β was about 
1783 for the CNTs sample without 
adhesive-taping treatment. But it was 1034 for 
the thrice-printed sample, because the 
adhesive taping broke the patterned shape, 
which led to the treated samples having a 
 8
0.000 0.005 0.010 0.015
-32
-30
-28
-26
-24
-22
 
 
Ln
(I/
V
2 ) 
[L
n(
m
A
/V
2 )]
1/V [V-1]
 UV - 0 min
 UV - 10 min
 UV - 20 min
 UV - 30 min
Figure 3. F-N curves of 3 wt% CNTs emitters 
treated at 300  for 3℃  h along with UV 
irradiation treatment for different time. 
than 6V/µm for all samples after UV 
irradiation treatment. The current density was 
2680 and 222 µA/cm2 at 7.7 V/µm for the 
CNTs samples with and without UV 
irradiation by 20 min. 
From the measurement of the lighting of 
the YAG phosphor with CNTs emitters, the 
emission current with better uniformity was 
observed. The samples using phosphor as 
anode started lighting at 6 V/µm. Figure 4 
shows that the correspondingly luminance of 
226 cd/m2 at 7.7 V/µm for the sample  
0 2 4 6 8 10
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Lu
m
in
an
ce
 (c
d/
m
2 )
Electric field (V/µm)
 UV - 0 min
 UV - 10 min
 UV - 20 min
 UV - 30 min
 
Figure 4. L-E curves of 3 wt% CNTs emitters 
treated at 300  for 3℃  h along with irradiation 
treatment, where the anode was a YAG 
phosphor screen. 
after UV irradiation 20 min and 16 cd/m2 at 
7.7 V/µm for non-treated one. The phosphor 
screen lighted more uniformly could be 
observed from Fig. 5 when the UV irradiation 
treated CNTs was used as emitters. Obviously, 
UV irradiation treatment could improve the 
uniformity of emission area and enhance the 
emission current of CNTs. 
  
(a)                 (b) 
Figure 5. The uniformity of the emission 
current with a phosphor anode for (a) the 
as-prepared sample, and (b) the UV irradiation 
treated one. 
The long-term emission stability for the 
thrice-printed CNTs emitter with adhesive 
taping treatment was measured at constant 
voltage of 6.5 V/µm, the emission current 
density of CNTs emitter was approximately 55 
µA/cm2 after applying voltage for 6 h. 
Comparison with the long-term emission 
stability of CNTs emitter with UV irradiation 
treatment, the emission current density of 
CNTs emitter was approximately 138 µA/cm2 
at 6.5 V/µm after continuously working for 6 
h. The UV irradiation treated CNTs emitters 
showed stable emission properties without 
arching during operational time. For the CNTs 
emitters by UV irradiation treatment, the 
long-term emission stability was significantly 
improved, as Fig. 6 displayed. 
4. Conclusions 
The thin CNTs film field emitters were 
fabricated by screen-printing method. The  
