 國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
論文發表： 
J. Y. Wu, Y. T. Chen, M. H. Lin and T. B. Wu “Ultrathin HfOH Trapping Layer 
for Charge-Trap Memory Made by Atomic Layer Deposition”IEEE Electron 
Device Letters 31, 993 (2010). 
 
3. 本計畫利用原子層氣相沉積系統製備記憶體元件，並引入高介電材料作為能
陷層之應用。同時，因 HfO2之高介電值作用，可有較降低元件尺寸，此有利
於未來之應用。另外，計畫中除優化 HfO2之材料元件特性外，亦加入了 Au
奈米顆粒，以增加記憶體元件之穩定性。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II 
摘要 
 
本計畫之研究內容著眼於非揮發性半導體記憶體之製程開發，乃因應現今
科技產品的快速發展，輕、薄、短、小的需求已是高科技產品的發展趨勢！計畫
中引入原子層化學氣相沉積系統(atomic layer deposition system)，不外乎此系統能
有效地控制元件尺寸於奈米尺度下之優勢。本實驗利用 TEMAH 與 O2 電漿作為
HfO2 高介電材料之前趨物，製備出 7 nm 之電荷能陷層(charge trap layer)，此記
憶體元件在 C-V 特性上表現出優異的電荷儲存效應(charge storage effect)。同時，
在資料的讀取與抹除上亦符合非揮發性記憶體之應用需求。 
除此之外，製程中亦加入了 Au 奈米晶粒，為使整個記憶體元件具有穩定的
儲存特性。結果發現，Au 奈米顆粒確實可有效改善整體元件之穩定性。因此，
本計畫已開發具有良好特性之高介電材料記憶體元件！ 
 
 
關鍵字： 
非揮發性記憶體、原子層沉積、電荷能陷、Au 奈米晶 
  
IV 
List of Figures 
 
Fig 1. The roadmap of NAND flash memory……………………………………….3 
Figure 2.(a) HfO2 as charge trapping layer(MLHOS)…………………………………4 
Fig 2. (b) Au-nanocrystal/HfO2 as charge trapping layer(MLAHOS)………………5 
Fig 2. (c) HfO2/Au-nanocrystal as charge trapping layer(MLHAOS)………………...5 
Fig 3. Schematic cross section of alloy-structure blocking oxide……………………10 
Fig 4. Band diagram of MLHOS device……………………………………………16 
Fig 5. (a)C-V relation of MLHOS (b)C-V relation of MLOS………………………17 
Fig 6. C-V hysteresis loops of MLHOS capacitor at Vg = ± 1V to ± 16V………18 
Fig 7. Δ Vfb v.s Vg curve of MANOS capacitor……………………………………..19 
Fig 8. The illustrative band diagram of MLHOS with positive applied voltage at metal 
gate…………………………………………………………………………………21 
Fig 9. The erase curves of MLHOS capacitor………………………………………23 
Fig 10. Charge retention characteristics of MLHOS…………………………………23 
Fig 11. Extrapolated 10-year retention of MLHOS…………………………………24 
Fig 12. Simulation of Pt nanocrystal’s field enhancement on electric field…………26 
Fig 13. Vg V.S. Δ Vfb graph of MLHOS, MLAHOS and MLHAOS………………28 
VI 
List of Tables 
 
Table 1. Parameter of atomic layer deposited HfO2………………………………...…8 
Table 2. Au thin film deposition parameters…………………………………………..9 
Table 3(a). Parameter of LaHfOx blocking oxide deposition…………………….......10 
Table 3(b). Parameter of LaHfOx blocking oxide deposition………………………...11 
Table 4. Parameter of rapid thermal annealing and forming gas annealing…………12 
Table 3. Parameter of Pt top electrode deposition…………………………………13 
 
2 
of CTF are its erase speed and retention. Thus, it is still hard for CTF to replace 
conventional flash devices in the data storage market. 
To overcome these challenges, efforts have been made to improve the retention 
and erase speed. For example, high-dielectric constant(high-k) materials has been 
adopted to replace SiO2 as the blocking oxide.[5] In this way, a large voltage drop can 
be induced on the tunnel oxide, which is usually made with an ultrathin thermal SiO2, 
to enhance the substrate injection of carriers into the CTF under the same stressing 
voltage. Besides, an innovative BE-SONOS with the ONO stack tunnel oxide has 
been used to enhance the erase speed at high electric field by F-N hole tunneling and 
reduce the charge loss at low electric field during retention[6]. In terms of the charge 
trapping layer, some materials of higher conduction band offset have also been used to 
improve retention. To sum up, an ideal CTF memory containing the advantages of 
high writing/erasing/reading speed, low power consumption, good reliability 
properties and high scaling ability needs further development to be commercialized. 
 
4 
Experiment 
 
Experimental details and procedures 
The charge trap flash type memory structure was conducted in our experiments. 
The SiO2 thin tunnel oxide was prepared previously, and then we fabricated three 
devices with HfO2, Au nanocrystal/HfO2, HfO2/Au-nanocrystal as charge trapping 
layer respectively. Subsequently, LaHfOx as blocking oxide was deposited by atomic 
layer deposition (ALD) system. Figure 2. shows the schematic cross-section of the 
memory devices in our study. For convenience, we named these three devices 
MLHOS, MLAHOS, MLHAOS respectively. 
 
 
Figure 2.(a) HfO2 as charge trapping layer(MLHOS) 
6 
Substrate RCA clean 
The RCA clean is the industry standard for removing contaminants from wafers. 
We conducted this procedure at the beginning of our experiments in order to obtain 
high quality of our p-type (100) silicon wafer. The RCA clean procedure has three 
main purposes:  
(a) Organic Clean:  Removal of insoluble organic contaminants with SC-1 solution 
(NH4OH: H2O2: H2O = 1:1:5).  
(b) Ionic Clean:  Removal of ionic and heavy metal contaminants with SC-2 solution 
(HCl: H2O2: H2O = 1:1:6).  
(c) Oxide etching:  Removal of native oxide with diluted   
HF: H2O = 1: 50 solution. 
      
Back-side ion implantation 
The back-side ion implantation was carried out to form the ohmic contact. The 
ion species is BF2
+
 and the parameters of energy and dose are 50 keV and 2×10
15
 cm
-2
, 
respectively. Then  the  rapid  thermal  annealing was  used  to  activate  the 
BF2
+
 in  the back-side of p-type Si substrate. 
 
8 
Table 1. Parameter of atomic layer deposited HfO2 
Precursor Hf(NEtMe)4 [TEMAH] 
Reactant O2 plasma 
Substrate temperature 350℃ 
Working pressure 1 torr 
Pulse sequence TEMAH/Ar/ O2 plama/Ar/ 
Pulse time (sec) 0.5/5/1.5/5 
Vapor pressure of precursor 0.1 Torr 
cycles 60 
 
Au Thin Film Deposition 
An ultrathin Au film was deposited by RF magnetron sputtering at room 
temperature. Au thin film is deposited on different locations; one is on SiO2 thin film 
and the other one is on HfO2 thin film. The former one forms the MLHAOS capacitor 
and the later forms MLAHOS capacitor. Low RF power was employing to reduce the 
bombardment of tunneling oxide. The detail parameters are listed in Table 2.  
 
. 
  
10 
 
 
Fig 3. Schematic cross section of alloy-structure blocking oxide 
 
Table 3(a). Parameter of LaHfOx blocking oxide deposition 
Precursor Hf(NEtMe)4 [TEMAH] 
Reactant O2 plasma 
Substrate temperature 350℃ 
Working pressure 1 torr 
Pulse sequence TEMAH/Ar/ O2 plama/Ar/ 
Pulse time (sec) 0.5/5/1.5/5 
Vapor pressure of precursor 0.1 Torr 
 
 
  
12 
Table 4. Parameter of rapid thermal annealing and forming gas annealing  
 
Metallization 
We deposited Pt top electrode by RF sputtering to make the electrical properties 
of the device able to be measured. The metallization process is described as following 
(1) Lithography:  The lithography process was firstly performed to define the 
round shape of the Pt top electrode. Because of the lithography process, we can 
get the accurate size of the Pt electrode without step coverage effect resulting 
from using hard mask to define the shape. 
(2) Pt RF sputtering : After lithography, the pattern of our top electrode are defined 
by the photoresistance remained on the top of the sample. Then we apply RF 
sputtering to deposit Pt on the well-defined pattern. The deposition parameters 
 Rapid Thermal Annealing Forming gas annealing 
Annealing tempetature 500℃ 300℃ 
Annealing time 3 minutes 30 minutes 
Annealing pressure 1 Torr 1 atm 
Atmosphere Ar N2/H2=4:1 
Gas flow 185sccm 200sccm 
14 
Analysis and Measurement 
Measurement 
To realize the memory effect of Au nanocrystals embedded in HfO2 thin film as 
charge trapping layer, high frequency (100 kHz) C-V characteristics were measured 
with Agilent HP 4285 Precision LCR Meter. Hysteresis C-V loops were found 
Erase Curve 
To measure the erase speed of MANOS capacitor, we need to realize the relation 
between Vfb shift and time. We employed the pulse generator Agilent 81110A  and 
Agilent  4285A, both are connected  to Agilent B1500A semiconductor analyzer via 
switching box to obtain the relation between C-V and pulsed time. Then we evaluate 
the Vfb shift from C-V by sensing the value of capacitance in software in Agilent 
B1500A instantaneously. Thus we can get the relation of Vfb and time. 
Retention Measurement 
Retention characteristics were measured by Agilent 4285 Precision LCR Meter 
and Agilent B1500A semiconductor analyzer. The relation between Vfb and time was 
obtained by the same method described in section 3.2.2. The sensing voltage is 
usually set to be ± 1V to avoid the charging effect to our device. 
  
16 
 
Fig 4. Band diagram of MLHOS device 
 
The charging effect in MLHOS capacitor 
In order to realize the charge storage effect of HfO2 charge trapping layer in the 
MLHOS capacitor, the high-frequency (100K Hz) C-V relations was measured. 
Figure 5. shows the C-V relations of capacitor with (MLHOS) and without (MLOS) 
HfO2 trapping layer under ±15V gate bias and 3 seconds holding time. The MLHOS 
exhibits a wide hysteresis loop in C-V relations accompanied with a large memory 
window of 7V, which indicates the significant charge storage ability in HfO2 trapping 
layer. In contrast, the reference MLOS sample shows only a small flat-band voltage 
shift, which reveals that traps generated at either LaHfOx bulk or LaHfOx/SiO2 
18 
The typical C-V hysteresis loops of MLHOS capacitor at Vg = ± 1V to ± 16V 
are shown in Figure 6. The memory window enlarges with increasing applied gate 
bias. In addition, the C-V hysteresis loops are counterclockwise indicating that the 
charge storage comes from the substrate injection into the HfO2 trapping layer.  
 
 
Fig 6. C-V hysteresis loops of MLHOS capacitor  
at Vg = ± 1V to ± 16V 
  
20 
height electrons encounter when tunneling through the tunnel oxide; on the other hand, 
ф2 is the barrier height for the electrons in trap sites when tunneling through the 
blocking oxide. As ф2 decreases after charging of electrons, the current I2 would 
gradually approach to I1, causing the decrease of charging ability. The saturation of 
charging the trap sites would be reached when both tunneling currents are equal. 
In contrast, because the valence band offset is too high for LaHfOx, the F-N 
tunneling for holes is difficult to arise. Therefore, the holes in the trap sites are not able 
to leak out through the thick blocking oxide by F-N tunneling and the saturation of hole 
storage can not be obtained. (b)At low gate bias, the Vfb shift rises faster at positive gate 
bias side than in the negative gate bias side, which indicates the electron injection 
efficiency is higher than hole’s. The phenomenon can be explained by the band diagram 
as shown in Figure 4. Because the barrier height of electron(3.25eV) to SiO2 is lower 
than that of hole(4.47eV), the tunneling probability of electron is much higher than hole. 
This causes a relatively more efficient electron injection from substrate under lower 
bias. 
  
22 
Charge retention characteristics in MLHOS capacitor 
Figure 10 shows the charge retention characteristics of our MLHOS capacitor. 
Data was measured after programming the device to +3V and -4V at room 
temperature. The MLHOS has a large initial memory window of  7.0 V and 
gradually decays to 6.2V after 30000s retention, leading to a charge loss of  11 %. 
An interesting phenomenon we can observe from Figure 10 is that the loss rate of 
holes is higher than that of electrons. This can be explained by the large valence band 
offset of HfO2. Due to the large band offset, holes can be trapped at higher energy 
state, which lead to higher probability of tunneling through the barrier under retention 
mode. 
The extrapolated 10-year retention is also shown in Figure 11. We find that a 
moderate memory window of 4.2V could still be preserved even after ten years 
extrapolation at room temperature. 
 
24 
 
Fig 11. Extrapolated 10-year retention of MLHOS 
  
26 
 
Fig 12. Simulation of Pt nanocrystal’s field enhancement on electric field 
 
The effects of embedded Au nanocrystals on the charging effect  
Part 1. MLAHOS v.s MLHOS 
Firstly, we compare the electron charging effect of two devices which are 
MLHOS(HfO2 as trapping layer) and MLAHOS(Au/HfO2 as trapping layer in which 
the Au nanocrystals are located at the interface between LaHfOX and HfO2).  
Figure 13 shows the shift of Vfb against gate voltage,Vg , applied of our three 
devices. We can clearly observe that the saturation level of MLAHOS is significantly 
lower than that of MLHOS in the positive Vfb shift side, which means that MLAHOS 
28 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
F
la
tb
a
n
d
 V
o
lt
a
g
e
 S
h
if
t,
 V
fb
 S
h
if
t,
 
V
fb
(V
o
lt
)
Stressed Voltage, Vg(Volt)
 
 
 MLHOS     Positive gate bias 
                           and negative gate bias
 MLHAOS   Positive gate bias 
                           and negative gate bias 
 MLAHOS   Positive gate bias 
                           and negative gate bias
 
Fig 13. Vg V.S. Δ Vfb graph of MLHOS, MLAHOS and MLHAOS 
 
  
Fig 14. Band diagram of MLAHOS under positive gate voltage stressed at metal gate 
  
30 
 
Fig 15. Band diagram of MLAHOS under negative gate voltage stressed at metal gate   
 
Part2. MLHAOS v.s MLHOS 
Another comparison of Vfb shift against Vg applied can be made between 
MLHAOS, in which the Au nanocrystals are embedded at the interface between HfO2 
and SiO2, and MLHOS. We can observe from Figure 13 that the saturation levels of 
electron charging in these two devices are almost the same. However, the charging 
starts much earlier for the former. It is apparently because the location of the Au 
nanocrystals would provide effective field enhancement effect for the tunneling of 
electron through the SiO2 layer. On the other hand, since the saturation level in Vfb-Vg 
graph is determined by the equilibrium between I1 and I2 tunneling current, as shown 
in Figure 16, when Au nanocrystals is located near the HfO2-SiO2 interface, E1 and E2 
are enhanced simultaneously because both are within the field enhancement range of 
32 
For hole charging in these two devices, it is observed that MLHAOS starts to charge 
at lower gate voltage. As we mentioned in previous paragraph, the hole charging in 
MLHAOS is caused by electron detrapping from the defect states and is related to electric 
field and barrier height in the tunnel oxide of SiO2 layer. Now that the Au nanocrystals 
locate near the HfO2/SiO2 interface, the embedded Au nanocrystals can have a field 
enhancement effect on electron detrapping because they are now near the tunnel oxide. 
Therefore, the electron detrapping process accelerated, resulting in an earlier hole 
charging.     
 
The effects of embedded Au nanocrystals on the erase characteristics 
Part1   MLAHOS v.s MLHOS 
Firstly, we have investigated the difference in erase characteristics between the two 
devices of MLHOS(HfO2 as trapping layer) and MLAHOS(Au/HfO2 as trapping layer). 
Figure 17 shows the result of erase speed measurement of these three device, in which an 
erase voltage ranging from -10V to -13V was used. We can clearly observe that the erase 
speed of MLAHOS is only slightly higher than MLHOS. The erase mechanism includes 
electron detrapping and hole injection; both take place across the tunnel oxdie. Since, as 
we can see in Figure 14, the field enhancement from Au nanocrystals in MLAHOS only 
weakly reach the tunnel oxide, its effect on the erase speed is thus quite limited.  
34 
Part2  MLHAOS v.s MLHOS 
In contrast, from Figure 17, we can see that the erase speed of MLHAOS is much 
higher than that of MLHOS. As we mentioned before, both electron detrapping and 
hole injection occur in tunnel oxide. Since the Au nanocrystals in MLHAOS locate 
near the HfO2/SiO2 interface, the electric field in tunnel oxide can be enhanced by the 
Au nanocrystals.  Due to the field enhancement effect, both electron detrapping and 
hole injection can be accelerated. Hence, the MLHAOS device has a significant 
improvement in erase speed.  
 
The effects of embedded Au nanocrystals on retention characteristics. 
Part1. MLAHOS v.s MLHOS 
In order to investigate the retention characteristics of electron storage in these 
two devices, a positive gate voltage is stressed to charge these two devices both to 
Vfb= 2.5V. On the other hand, a negative gate voltage is also stressed to these devices 
to Vfb= -4V for hole storage test, as shown in Figure 18. From Figure 18, we can 
clearly observe that the charge loss rates of the two devices are low and identical. For 
electron storage, the charge loss is caused by electron detrapping and/or hole injection 
from substrate; on the other hand, the charge loss in hole storage comes from hole 
detrapping and/or electron injection from substrate. As these mechanisms all occur 
36 
 
Fig 19. Band diagram of MLHAOS under retention mode. 
 
Part2. MLHAOS v.s MLHOS 
From Figure 18, we can see that MLHAOS shows a significantly degraded 
retention than that of MLHOS. This phenomenon is likewise related to the Au 
nanocrystal’s field enhancement effect. However, the scenario here is different since 
gate voltage is not stressed under retention mode and there is no external electric field. 
It is because an internal field can be built by the stored charges, and thus the Au 
nanocrystals can still induce a field enhancement effect across the tunnel oxide in 
MLHAOS. It is worth to point out that the exact location of the Au nanocrystal is 
slightly away from the SiO2, as shown schematically in Figure 19, which is due to the 
38 
Conclusion 
 
In conclusion, we have successfully embedded Au nancrystals into our MLHOS 
capacitor, which results in MLAHOS and MLHAOS with respect to the Au 
nanocrystals location. The effects of Au nanocrystals embedded in the memory 
properties have been investigated .It is found that the location of Au nanocrystals has 
a great influence on the device characteristics because of the field enhancement effect. 
The Au nanocrystals lain above the charge trap layer, i.e. HfO2, lowers the electron 
storage saturation level; however, it has little effects on erase and retention 
characteristics. In contrast, the nanocrystals lain between the charge trap layer and the 
tunnel oxide have little effect on the saturation level, but, it significantly improves the 
erase speed. Unfortunately, it also greatly degrades the retention characteristics. 
  
40 
[8] Hirotaka Hamamura, Takeshi Ishida, Toshiyuki Mine, Yutaka Okuyama, Digh 
Hisamoto, Yasuhiro Shimamoto, Shin’ichiro Kimura and Kazuyoshi Torii 
“Electron trapping characteristics and scalability of HfO2 as a trapping layer in 
SONOS-type  flash memories” IEEE 46th Annual International Reliability 
Physics Symposium, Phoenix, 2008. 
[9] Cheng-Wei Cheng, Yuan-Chieh Tseng, Tai-Bor Wu, Li-Jen Chou “Enhanced 
polarization switching characteristics of Pb(Zr0.5Ti0.5)O3–Pt  nanocomposite thin 
films” J. Mater. Res., 19, 1043 (2004). 
[10] Yun-Shan Lo, Ke-Chih Liu, Cheng-Wei Cheng, Jyun-Yi Wu, Cheng-Hao Hou, 
and Tai-Bor Wu “Field enhancement effect of nanocrystals in bandgap 
engineering of tunnel oxide for nonvolatile memory application” Appl. Phys. 
Lett.94, 082901 2009. 
[11] Chen-Chan Wang, Yan-Kai Chiou, Che-Hao Chang, Jiun-Yi Tseng, Lin-Jung Wu, 
Chun-Yu Chen and Tai-Bor Wu “Memory characteristics of Au nanocrystal 
embedded in metal-oxide-semiconductor structure by using 
atomic-layer-deposited Al2O3 as control oxide” J.Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 40 (2007) 
1673-1677. 
國科會補助出席國際會議報告                                                              
2011 年 8 月 11 日 
 
報告人姓名 魏士淵 單位 國立清華大學材料所 
計畫名稱 
以原子層化學氣相沉積高密度電
荷能陷記憶體之製程與特性研究
(3/3) 
NSC 97-2221-E-007-013-MY3  
會議時間 100/04/25-100/04/29 
會議地點 美國舊金山 
會議名稱 
 (中文) 2011 材料研究學會春季會議 
 (英文) 2011 Materials Research Society Spring Meeting 
 
發表論文 
題目 
 (中文) 氧化鋅雙極性電阻轉換特性對於全透明非揮發記憶體之應用 
 (英文) Bipolar resistive switching characteristics of zinc oxide thin films for 
nonvolatile transparent memory applications 
Deposition of lanthanum hafnium titanium oxide 
high-κfilms on Ge substrate by atomic layer deposition 
 
Jyun-Kai Lan, Chih-Chiao Chen, Ming-Ho Lin, Jyun-Yi Wu, Tai-Bor Wu, Su-Jien 
Lin 
 
Abstract 
 
As alternative to Si in high-speed logic devices, Ge is widely considered due to 
its higher carrier mobility. Coupling Ge channel with high dielectric constant material 
is a promising strategy for ultrascaled logic devices.  However, Ge surface 
passivation is a big challenge especially. GeO2 becomes unstable when it is deposited 
on Ge , because it reacts with Ge forming substoiciometric oxide or GeO. GeO is 
volatile and sublimes leaving behind a defective interface. 
Rare earth oxides are considered to be class of materials which offer good 
passivation of Ge, as it has recently been suggested. This is because rare earth oxides 
react strongly with the substrate resulting in catalytic oxidation of Ge and in the 
spontaneous formation of stable interfacial layers. Lanthanum oxide is one rare earth 
oxide which has been studied mainly for Si-based devices, while there is considerably 
less work related to the properties of La2O3 deposited on Ge substrates. But La(OH)3 
formation due to OH− groups absorption when La2O3 is exposed to air significantly 
degrades its k value  
In this study, we use atomic layer deposition process to prepare a thin La2O3 
passivating layer and a HfO2 or Tio2 cap layer to take advantage of the higher κ and 
the good insulating properties of the latter material. Finally, LHTO films are 
characterized by a combination of (i) grazing incidence x-ray diffraction (GIXRD), (ii) 
high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) and (iii) X-ray 
photoelectron spectrometer (XPS), (iv) capacitance-voltage (C-V), and current 
density-voltage (J-V) measurements.  
 
 三、論文發表剪影 
 
 
 
 
 
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蔡哲正 計畫編號：97-2221-E-007-013-MY3 
計畫名稱：以原子層化學氣相沉積高密度電荷能陷記憶體之製程與特性研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 4 4 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
