2中文摘要
在本研究，我們的問題是如何建立一個具最低耗電量且符合延遲限制的群播樹，可用於支
援隨意型無線網路上的即時多媒體應用系統。針對此問題，我們以數個 link-replacing 策略
為基礎發展出一個稱為 energy-based link replacement (ELR) algorithm 的近似演算法。此 ELR
演算法可用來決定一個具最低耗電量且符合延遲限制的群播樹。此 ELR 演算法運作如下：
以一個二階群播樹為起點，不斷將耗電量最高的 link 取代成一個或數個低耗能的 link，
以便將群播樹的耗電量降至最低。不同與先前發表的演算法的地方是：我們的 ELR 演算法
可直接決定出群播樹，無需經過尋找廣播樹這一階段的運算。因此，我們的 ELR 演算法較
適用於大型網路中僅有少數節點參與群播工作的情況。實驗結果顯示我們的 ELR 演算法較
先前提出的演算法表現更優秀，也更有效率。
關鍵字：
隨意型無線網路、延遲限制、最低耗電量、群播樹、繞徑、最佳品質。
Abstract
In this paper, we focus on the problem concerning how to construct a delay-constrained
multicast tree with minimum-energy consumption so that real-time multimedia applications can
be supported in ad hoc wireless networks. Based on a number of link-replacing strategies, the
study presents a heuristic called energy-based link replacement (ELR) algorithm for determining
a multicast tree for the problem. The ELR algorithm begins with a two-level multicast tree and
then iteratively replaces the high-power links with a few of lower-power links in order to reduce
the total power expended by the multicast tree. Unlike the prior approaches by which the
multicast trees can not be determined until the corresponding broadcast trees are found, our ELR
algorithm can compute the desired multicast trees directly. Thus, our ELR algorithm is more
appropriate for large-scale networks where only a few of nodes are involved in the multicasting.
Based on various wireless environments and delay constraints, the simulation results show that
our ELR method consistently outperforms the previously published method in terms of both
solution-quality and executing efficiency.
Keywords:
Ad-hoc wireless networks, delay constraint, minimum-energy consumption, multicast tree,
routing, quality-of-service.
41. Introduction
Ad hoc wireless networks can be flexibly and quickly deployed for many applications such
as automated battlefield, conferencing, home networking and emergency services [9]. Unlike
wired networks and cellular networks, no wire backbone infrastructure is installed in ad hoc
wireless networks, where multiple network hops may be needed for communication between two
distant nodes, due to the limited range of radio transmission. Since most nodes in an ad hoc
wireless network are portable devices and operating on battery power, the research topics on
designing energy-efficient or energy-aware wireless networks have been under extensive
investigations [1-8]. In particular, by minimizing transmitting power levels during the formation
of a broadcast tree at network layer, two energy-efficient algorithms called BIP and MIP have
been proposed for constructing broadcast and multicast trees respectively [1].
Multicasting is an important communication mechanism for implementing real-time
multimedia applications, which usually require the underlying network to provide end-users
quality-of-service (QoS) guarantees, such as delay, delay jitter, bandwidth, and so on [10,11].
QoS routing in ad hoc network system is more difficult than the cellular network systems since
no centralized coordinators exist [12]. In this paper, we study the problem concerning how to
construct a minimum-energy multicast tree with QoS supports for ad hoc wireless networks. The
QoS metric considered in this study is the delay-bound for the multicast tree. That is, the number
of hops of each multicasting path can not be greater than a given value, in order to support
real-time applications, such as conferencing, online-games. This problem is referred as the
energy-efficiency and delay-constrained multicast routing (EDMR) problem.
Based on the link replacing strategies, we present a heuristic called ELR algorithm for
determining a multicast tree for the EDMR problem. Our ELR method begins with a two-level
multicast tree and then iteratively replaces the high-power links with several lower-power links in
order to reduce the total power required by the multicast tree. The simulation results show that
the ELR algorithm outperforms the MIP algorithm [1] in terms of both solution-quality and
executing efficiency, when a delay bound is given for the multicast trees. In this study, we use the
same wireless communication model presented in [1]. The communication model is established
based the following assumptions: no mobility, unlimited bandwidths, and the omni-directional
antennas used by all nodes to transmit and receive signals.
2. The EDMR Problem
We use a complete directed graph ),( EVG to denote an ad hoc wireless network, where
V represents the node set, nV || , and E is the edge set of all links between any two nodes in
node set V . For each link l in E , the delaylink is assumed to be one in this study. Hence,
for a given path p , the path delay is the number of hops between its two end-points. To support a
link l from node i to node j , the minimum transmitting power required at node i is defined
as follows [1, 2]:

jiji rw ,,  , where jir , is the distance between node i and node j , and 42  . (1)
On this network, we have a source node s , and a set of destination nodes M , called the
6Fig. 1. Energy-based link replacement
Except for the case shown in Fig. 1, at least four different cases about link replacement must
be considered in our ELR algorithm. These four cases are given in appendix A. A
()_ replacinglink procedure is developed for implementing these five link-replacing
strategies.
(c) As a result of the link replacement described in (b), the height of multicast tree T may be
larger than the given delay constraint . That is, the number of hops of the longest path
from source node (the root) to a destination node (a leaf) is greater than . Hence, the
substitute links found by ()_ replacinglink procedure must satisfy the given delay
constraint.
(d) Three data structures:“Energy Table”,“Index List”and“Distance List”are used in our ELR
algorithm.
 Energy Table
Transmitting
node
Maximum-power Receiving nodes
u
},.....,{)(
110 ,,, 

kvuvuvu
wwwMaxuW 110
,......, kvvv
The number of rows in the“Energy Table”equals to the number of transmitting nodes
in the multicast tree T . Hence, the total power  associated with the multicast tree
can be computed by adding up all the“Maximum-power”values in the table.
 Index List
The “Index List”is created for storing the address (or index) of each row in “Energy
Table”. The “Index List”is sorted in decreasing order based on the “Maximum-power”
values stored in“Energy Table”.
 Distance List
We maintain a linked-list associated with each node iv in the network. The list is as
follows:
),(),.....,,(),,( 221100  nni dxdxdxv , where Vx j , jd is the distance between iv
and jx ; )1(0  ni , )2(0  nj . This list is used in ()_ replacinglink procedure
84.1. Performance
Three sets of performance comparisons are shown in Fig. 3~5, when the given delay
constraint  is chosen to be 10, 8, 6 hops respectively. In Fig. 3 ~ 5, a normalized power ratio
called“Improvementratio”is defined as follows:
Improvement ratio = (total power needed by the multicast tree found by ELR (or MIP) - 0 ) /
0  %100 ,
where 0 is the total power needed by the two-level multicast tree found at step (2) in Fig. 2.
In Fig. 3~5, for all the sets of simulations with different sizes of multicast groups, the values of
“Improvementratio”for ELR are much less than the corresponding values for MIP. That is, with
the same delay constraints, the multicast trees found by ELR require less power than the multicast
trees found by MIP. It is noticed that the values of “Improvementratio”of MIP are larger than
0% in Fig. 4 and 5, when the number of nodes in a multicast group is greater than a certain
threshold value, which is 30 in Fig. 4 and 50 in Fig. 5. This phenomenon indicates that when the
delay constraint is tight and the minimum-energy tree is desired, the multicast tree determined by
MIP is worse than the two-level multicast tree, where the source node transmits signal directly to
all the destination nodes. On the contrary, the tree determined by ELR is better than the two-level
multicast tree all the time.
4.2. Efficiency
Since the multicast tree found by MIP is reduced from a broadcast tree (i.e. a spanning tree),
which is determined by the BIP method presented in literature [1], the running time required by
MIP tends to be large when the large-size networks are considered. Hence, although the time
complexity required by both ELR and MIP algorithms is )( 3nO at worst case, ELR constantly
outperforms MIP in terms of executing speed as the results shown in Fig. 6. High efficiency of
ELR is due to that only destination nodes and a small set of Steiner nodes are needed to be
considered during the tree-construction phase. This is an important advantage for managing
large-scale networks, especially when only small amount of nodes participate the multicasting.
To compare the executing efficiency of ELR and MIP, a term called “ratio of
executing-speed”is used in Fig. 6, which is defined as follows:
Ratio of executing-speed=the running time needed by ELR / the running time needed by
MIP %100 .
10
Appendix A
Case I
 Node q is not in the sub-tree rooted at r ; node q is in the sub-tree rooted at p .
Case II
 Node q is not in the sub-tree rooted at r . And, node q is not in the sub-tree rooted at
p .
Case III
 Node q is a direct son or a descendant of r .
Case IV
 Node q is an ancestor of p .
References
[1] J.E. Wieselthier, G.D. Nguyen and A. Ephremides, “Energy-Efficient Broadcast and
Multicast Trees in Wireless Networks,”Mobile Networks and Applications, vol. 7(6), 2002,
pp. 481-492.
[2] J.E. Wieselthier, G.D. Nguyen and A. Ephremides, “Algorithms for energy-efficient
multicasting in static ad hoc wireless networks,”Mobile Networks and Applications, vol.
h rp
h q p
r
q
h wr
h p q r
p q
w
h
q
w r
h
p
q
r
p
h
p
r w
h
p
w
q
q
r
