 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ▓成果報告     
□期中進度報告 
 
應用積體化高溫超音波於氣體輔助熱壓成型技術  
生產微流道元件之最佳化研究 
 
計畫類別：▓個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC   99－2221－E －164－003－ 
執行期間： 99年 08月 01日至 100年 07月 31日 
 
執行機構及系所：修平技術學院 電機工程系 
 
計畫主持人：陳清祺 
共同主持人：楊申語  陳宏仁 
計畫參與人員：鄭紹中 李舒婷 姚安哲 曾培凱 賴世宗 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：▓精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
▓出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年▓二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國 100年 10 月 28 日
附件一 
 
   
I. Introductions  
Conventionally, fabrication of the micro-fluidic and micro-optical devices requires multiple 
processing steps on glass or semiconductor substrates, such as lithographic, electroplating, and 
molding processes. However, those methods usually involve expensive equipments and a clean room 
environment. Hot embossing process recently has attracted a renewed attention for high volume 
production of these devices, because of its single step process for net-shape forming of components 
[1, 2]. For conventional hot embossing process, the substrate is pressed directly by the hot plates of 
the press machine, driven by pneumatic cylinder [3], hydraulic cylinder [4] or linear screw/motor 
devices [5]. Pressing substrates with hot plates has inherent problems, such as non-uniform pressure 
distribution, shrinkage, limited stamp material, etc. In 2003, J.-H. Chang and S.-Y. Yang [6] 
presented a method for hot embossing using gas as pressure media to avoid the problem of non-
uniform embossing pressure throughout a large area. The gas-assisted hot embossing method would 
be utilized for printing line patterns on the surface of plastic plate in this paper. 
For process monitoring and control, in 2002, Bosch-Charpenay, etc. [7], presented an infrared-
reflectance etch monitor tool for MEMS deep reactive-ion etch (DRIE) fabrication. Experimental 
results illustrated that the etch depth of various MEMS structures (holes, pillars, trenches, etc.) had 
been measured and analyzed by the infrared reflectance spectrum.  In 2004, J.-L. Charest, etc. [8], 
presented a technique for preparing micro-textured polymer substrates for cell growth and studies 
the response of cells grown on these surfaces. Under the fluorescence microscopy, cell membrane 
body, cell nucleus, and focal adhesions were found strongly aligned with the microgrooves. In 2005, 
X.-C. Shan, etc. [9], demonstrated the applications of micro hot embossing process for fabricating 
vertical micro-mirrors and optical switch platforms using polycarbonate as the process material. 
Measurement using a scanning force microscope illustrated that surface roughness (Ra) of the 
embossed polymer mirror was around 0.1 μm. However, these monitoring methods may require the 
special equipments, such as infrared reflectance spectrum, fluorescence microscopy and scanning 
 
   
combined chambers with HTUT sensor were installed between upper and lower heating/cooling 
plate for hot-embossing process. All the experiments presented in this study were conducted in the 
ultrasonic pulse-echo mode. The ultrasonic data acquisition system (Pace simulation Inc., Montreal, 
Canada), as shown in Fig. 2 (b), was composed of one channel signal pulsing-receiving system and a 
note book computer for acquiring, demonstrating and storage data. The acquisition rate was 2Hz. For 
comparison purpose with ultrasonic data, a temperature sensor (K type) was flush with the internal 
surface of the mold cavity of the lower chamber.  
A photograph of a molded part is given in Fig. 2 (c). The polymer plate employed was a 
polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) plate. The dimensions of the molded plate were 30mm-wide, 
50mm-long and 2mm-thick. One can see that the line-type patterns of the mold were printed on the 
surface of the part in Fig. 2 (c).  The printed patterns on the surface of the molded part at the UT 
location was measured using a laser scanning canfocal microscope in order to compare that 
measured by the ultrasonic technique presented in the following section. 
The gas-assisted hot embossing process was illustrated in Fig. 3. It can be explained as 
following:  
(1) Heating stage: The plastic plate and mold is placed in a closed chamber, and the heating 
plate is heated to a processing temperature which is above the glass transition temperature (Tg) of 
the plastic material. During the heating process, low gas pressure is applied to the plastic plate to 
prevent it from creasing.   
(2) Pressing stage: When the desired processing temperature is reached, the gas is introduced 
into the chamber to press on the plastic plate. This would force it to have a close contact with the 
mold, and the patterns of the mold may be printed on the surface of the plastic plate.   
(3) Cooling and packing: After the sufficient pressing period, the heating plate is cooled down 
to below the Tg of the plastic material. In the mean time, the gas pressure is maintained to prevent 
uncontrolled shrinkage and distortion.    
 
   
IV. Discussions  
A. Embossing process diagnosed by temperature   
Temperature variation during process has the close relationship with the state of plastic plate, 
and it would affect the printing effect of the pattern from the mold to the surface of plastic plate. In 
the experiment, the surface temperature of the plastic plate was recorded by a thermocouple setting 
beside the HTUT insert and flush with the top surface of the lower chamber, as shown in Fig. 4. The 
result was shown in Fig. 6. From process time of 0 to 410s, the surface temperature of the plastic 
plate increase linearly from 34.2 to 71.9 °C, then reach to a steady state of 80 °C at process time 
around 689s. Even the setting of the heating plate was 90 °C, the final temperature of the plastic 
plate was 80 °C. The embossing machine was cooled down at process time of 1120s by the 
circulating water to the room temperature, after sufficient pressing period. The experiment stopped at 
the process time of 1935s.   
 
B. Embossing process diagnosed by amplitude of ultrasonic signals    
The benefit of embossing process is its single step process for net-shape forming of 
components, and suitable for mass production of micro-fluidic and micro-optical devices. It is our 
interesting to understand the physical variation of plastic plate during the embossing process. In 
order to investigate further the correlation between the ultrasonic signals observed at the sensor 
insert and the embossing cycle, the amplitude values of the L1 and L2 echoes in Fig. 5 with respect to 
the process time were obtained.  The results are presented in Figure 7.  At process time of 0s, the 
chamber closed and the plastic plate was started to be heated to a desired temperature. At process 
time of 120s, the amplitude of the L1 echo started to decrease due to the fact that and a part of the 
ultrasonic energy was transmitted into the plastic plate through the sensor insert/ plastic plate 
interface. This phenomenon may explain that the plastic plate started soft and contact with the sensor 
insert.  The surface temperature of the plastic plate was 39.1°C at this moment.  
 
   
polymer because of its close relationship with the temperature and pressure. The ultrasonic velocity 
in the polymer could be calculated according to the following equation:    
V = 2D/Δt,    (1) 
where D is the thickness of the plastic plate in Fig. 4, and Δt is the time delay between the ultrasonic 
L1 and L2 echoes in Fig. 5. The result was shown in Fig. 8.  
In Fig. 8, at process time of 431s, when the amplitude of the L2 echo appeared, the ultrasonic 
velocity in the polymer could be calculated as 2642 m/s. From process time of 431 to 689s, the 
ultrasonic velocity decreased from 2642 to 2518 m/s, indicating that the temperature increased 
during the heating stage. From process time of 689 to 1140s, the ultrasonic velocity kept at a stable 
state, indicating that the temperature and gas pressure kept at a stable state during the pressing stage. 
From process time of 1140 to 1865s, the ultrasonic velocity increase from 2469 to 2762 m/s, 
indicating that the temperature decreased during the cooling and packing stage. At the process time 
of 1486s, the ultrasonic velocity reached a stable state of 2719m/s, indicating the solidification of the 
plastic plate. The surface temperature of the plastic plate at this moment was 41.8°C. After this 
moment, more cooling process was not necessary, and experiment could be stopped earlier than 
conventional method.  At the process time of 1865s, the ultrasonic velocity disappeared due to 
vanish of the amplitude of the L2 echo.   Such a variation of ultrasonic velocity in the polymer can be 
used to monitor the solidification behavior of the polymer plate in the chamber during processing, 
which is presented elsewhere [14, 22].   
 
D. Microstructures  
The lines patterns of mold would be printed to the surface of the plastic plate during the 
embossing process. The printed patterns on the surface of the plastic plate were scanned by the Laser 
scanning confocal microscope. The result was shown in Figure 9 (a) and (b). In Fig. 9 (a), the top 
view of the reprinted line patterns was observed clearly. In Fig. 9 (b), the surface profile of the 
 
   
References  
1. David Hardt, Bala Ganesan, Wang Qi, Matthew Dirckx and Adam Rzepniewski, “Process 
Control in Micro-Embossing: A Review”, Innovation in Manufacturing Systems and Technology 
(IMST), 2004. 
2. Chunmeng Lu, Mark Ming-Cheng Cheng, Avraham Benatar, L. James Lee, “Embossing of High-
Aspect-Ratio-Microstructures Using Sacricial Templates and Fast Surface Heating”, Polym. 
Eng. Sci., 47, pp. 830-840, 2007.  
3. Juang YJ; Lee LJ; Koelling KW, “Hot embossing in microfabrication. part I: experimental”, 
Polymer Eng Sci 42(3): 539–550, 2002. 
4. Chang JH; Yang SY, “Hot embossing for transcription of micro-features onto large thermoplastic 
films”, Proceedings of The Nineteenth National Conference on The Chinese Society of 
Mechanical Engineers, Yun Lin, Taiwan, 2002.  
5. Heckele M; Bacher W; Muller KD, “Hot embossing – the molding technique for plastic 
microstructures”, Microsyst Tech 4: 122–124, 1998.   
6. J.-H. Chang, S.-Y. Yang, “Gas pressurized hot embossing for transcription of micro-features”, 
Microsystem Technologies 10, 76–80, 2003.   
7. S. Bosch-Charpenay, J. Xu, J. Haigis, P.A. Rosenthal, P.R. Solomon, and J.M. Bustillo, “Real-
Time Etch-Depth Measurements of MEMS Devices”, Journal of Microelectromechanical 
Systems, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 111-117, April 2002. 
8. J. L.Charest, L. E.Bryant, A. J.Garcia, W. P.King, “Hot embossing for micropatterned cell 
substrates”, Biomaterials, 25, pp. 4767–4775, 2004  
9. Terry Koerner, Laurie Brown, Ruixi Xie, Richard D. Oleschuk, “Applications of micro hot 
embossing for optical switch formation”,Sensors and Actuators A, Vol.119, pp.433–440, 2005.  
10. J. L. White, and B. L. Lee, Polym. Eng. Sci., 15, 481, 1975.  
11. S. S. Young, J. L. White, E. S. Clark, and Y. Oyanagi, Polym. Eng. Sci., 20, 798, 1980. 
 
   
Figures:  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Photographs of (a) sensor insert, (b) low chamber and (c) upper chamber. 
 
 
Fig. 2 Photographs of (a) hot embossing machine, (b) data acquisition system and (c) molded 
PMMA sample. 
 
   
 
Fig. 5 (a) Typical ultrasonic signals acquired by UT, and  (b) frequency spectrum of L1 signal.  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Surface temperature of plastic plate recorded by thermocouple  
 
   
 
Fig. 9 (a) Top and (b) cross section view of printed patterns on plastic plate surface.  
 
 
 
   
研究應用於耐高溫壓電式超音波感測器、以及氣體輔助熱壓成形技術等極具潛力的
高科技工業，藉由應用學術研究掌握耐高溫壓電式超音波感測器的性能改善及氣體
輔助熱壓成形技術的流程最佳化，將可作為增進高科技工業技術的基礎。 
 
 國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心
得報告 
                                    
日期：100年 10月 28日 
一、參加會議經過 
2010年材料與製造工藝研究進展國際研討會已於 99年 11月 05日至 11月 08日
在中國 深圳市舉行，該研討會每年都提供一個良好的平台，讓全球在材料與製
造技術上的專家能共同交流，彼此學習，為國際間在該領域重要的研討會之一，
每年由相關先進工業國家輪流舉辦，今年則在中國 深圳市舉辦研討會，由香港
工業技術研究中心主辦。此次參加會議除了聆聽演講及發表論文外，另外跟與會
的德國、中國、韓國、日本、馬來西亞、新加坡、泰國及澳洲的專家學者共同會
談，討論有關製造技術與系統、先進複合材料、先進金屬合金、材料製程技術、
先進製造技術及材料處理技術等的發展現況、方向及未來發展的趨勢。 
 
此次大會邀請演講及口頭報告的論文共有 227篇，而壁報報告論文共有百來篇，
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E －164－003－ 
計畫名稱 應用積體化高溫超音波於氣體輔助熱壓成型技術生產微流道元
件之最佳化研究 
出國人員
姓名 
陳清祺 
服務機構
及職稱 
修平技術學院 電機工程系 
助理教授 
會議時間 
99年 11月 05日至 
99年 11月 08日 
會議地點 中國  深圳 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2010年材料與製造工藝研究進展國際研討會 
(英文) 2010 International Conference on Advances in Materials and  
Manufacturing Processes (ICAMMP 2010)  
發表論文
題目 
(中文)在塑膠混合過程中超音波迴音信號的效應 
(英文)  Effect of ultrasonic reflection echo during polymer mixing process  
附件四 
論文接受函: 
 
Dear authors of Manuscript T939 
   
  The Scien ﬁc Commi  ee has compl e t ed i t s review of  your  paper  submi  e d for   ì  ì
Interna onal  Conf er ence on Advances in Ma ter i al s and Ma nuf actur ing Pr ocesses  ì
(ICAMMP 2010). The ﬁnal  deci si on is ma de base on the peer -revi ew repor ts,  the  
scien ﬁc mer i ts and t he r elevance.   m
  
  We are pleased to inform you that your paper as follow has now been accepted by 
the Scien ﬁc Commi  ee of  I CAMP 2 010 and wi ll  be publ i shed i n journal  acc
"Advanced Materials Research", and will be indexed by EI COMPENDEX and Thomas 
ISTP. 
  
Manuscript Number: T939 
Authors: Chin-Chi Cheng,  Shao-Chung Cheng, Chi-Huang Lu Paper Title: Eﬀect of  b
ultrasonic reﬂec on echo dur i ng pol ymer  mix ing process  u 
  
Notes: 
  
1. Please revise your manuscript according to the detailed comments and 
sugges ons  from the ref er ees.  And ma ke sur e that  your  paper  is in stri ct  accor dance ̇
with the format of Advanced Materials Research journal. 
  
2. please read the registra on for m car ef ul ly and ma ke sur e that  you pay the ì
registra on fees  no lat er  than Jul y 30,  2010y】. Please note that this deadline will be 
strictly enforced. Your paper will be removed from Advanced Materials Research if 
the fee is not received by that date. 
  
3. We have sent the Username/Password to you via the camera-ready paper 
submission system of Trans Tech Publica ons .  Pl ease upl oad your  ma nuscript  and i
sign the copyright agreement no later than 【June 25, 2010】. 
  Any ques ons ,  pl ease do not  hes i tat e to cont act us .  u
The Commi ee of  ICAMMP  2010 h
 ICAMMP@VIP.188.COM 
 www.ICAMMP.org 
 2010/7/23 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用積體化高溫超音波於氣體輔助熱壓成型技術生產微流道元件之最佳化研究
計畫主持人: 陳清祺
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-164-003- 學門領域: 加工與製造 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 應用積體化高溫超音波於氣體輔助熱壓成型技術生產微流道元件
(英文) Microfluidic devices fabrication with Gas-assisted Hot-Embossing process by using 
integrated high-temperature ultrasonic transducer
成果歸屬機構
修平學校財團法人修平科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
陳清祺
技術說明
(中文) 本研究展示藉由噴霧法將超音波傳感器塗佈在熱壓機的模仁上，所得的超音波傳
感器具備中央頻率為10.1MHz，3dB頻寬為4.45MHz，將超音波傳感器裝置在具氣
壓缸的模具內，並將模具安裝到熱壓機上， 進行氣體輔助熱壓成型過程的檢測。
熱壓過程先將PMMA樣品加熱至預設的溫度，再將氣體通入氣壓缸進行加壓，持溫
持壓後，進行樣品的冷卻，待溫度降至室溫時，洩壓、開模並取出樣品。量取到
的樣品表面溫度比模具的設定溫度低，PMMA塑膠板的加熱、軟化、冷卻、開模及
分離過程，都可由超音波信號觀察到，並且藉由超音波速度可以達到縮短流程時
間及最佳化流程的目的， 樣品的微結構及表面高度可由SEM及光學掃描得到。
(英文) Real-time, non-intrusive and non-destructive monitoring of gas-assisted hot embossing 
process for line patterns has been performed using integrated HTUT sensor. One HTUT 
sensor insert was embedded onto the lower chamber of a hot embossing machine. The 
molded part had dimensions of 50mm in length, 30mm in width and 2mm in thickness. 
Plastic plate soften, gas introduction, cooling and plate detachment inside the chamber 
were observed using ultrasound. Ultrasonic velocity also could indicate the processes and 
the solidification of plastic plate. The microstructure of the reprinted line patterns on 
surface of plastic plate can be observed clearly. Therefore it is demonstrated that the 
presented integrated ultrasonic sensor and techniques might be an optional approach to 
diagnose gas-assisted hot embossing process, non-destructively and non-invasively 
during molding, in order to optimize the process.
產業別 光學及精密器械製造業；醫療器材製造業；模具製造業
技術/產品應用範圍 光學/醫學等精密產品製造業
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
可協助產業對於生產流程的最佳化提供檢測,可以縮短流程時間約5%
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
受邀擔任國外研討會會議主持人,擔任國外期刊的審稿委員,並擔任國內非破壞
檢測協會的學術委員會委員 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
