2 
1.  Introduction 
The mechanical properties of DNA play a key role in molecular biological 
functions. DNA can be viewed as a long, flexible, and thin nano-scale spring polymer. 
Typically, the mechanical response of a single DNA molecule to an applied force has 
two regions: entropic and elastic [1]. The entropic response is driven by thermal 
energy, and the elastic energy is generated by base-pair interactions. In the entropic 
region, the stretching force is less than 5 pN. The worm-like chain (WLC) model can 
give a good description for DNA behavior which could be described by [2]:  
  
2
elasticity
b
F P 1 R 1 R1
K T 4 L 4 L
−⎡ ⎤= − − +⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦                                                  
(1)  
where Felasticity, L, R, KbT and P denote the stretching force, the contour length, the 
extension length, the thermal energy, and the persistence length, respectively. In the 
elastic region, DNA behaves like an elastic rod. The stretching force against the 
entropic response of the polymer ranges from 5 pN to 65 pN, which is applied to the 
molecular chemical bonds. In this region, the increase in length of the DNA molecule 
is due to the slight distortion of its double-helical structure, making the elasticity 
similar to that in a spring. Neglecting the entropic contributions, the force-extension 
curve follows a simple Hooke’s law [1]: 
elasticity cross
RF EA 1
L
⎛ ⎞= −⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠                                                       
(2) 
where Across denotes the cross-sectional area, and E represents the Young’s modulus of 
DNA. In real cases, the entropic and elastic contributions must be taken into account 
simultaneously. A modified model was then proposed by Odijk for the interlinking 
between the entropic and elastic regions (2 pN to 15 pN), and could be described as 
follows [3]: 
1
2
elasticityb
elasticity cross
FK TR 11
L 2 F P EA
⎛ ⎞= − +⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
                                                
(3)                                                  
To date, many experiments with a single DNA molecule have shown good fit to 
the physical models [1, 4-9]. However, the question of whether there is a difference or 
not in mechanical properties between one single DNA molecule and two single DNA 
molecules has raised broad interest in DNA topology [10, 11]. In this paper, we 
describe a new approach to study the mechanical properties for one and two DNA 
molecules.   
4 
2.1  Design and fabrication 
Figure 1 shows a schematic representation of the 3-D magnetic tweezers 
comprising six micro-electromagnets, a ring trapper, a fluidic channel, and a 
gold-patterned surface. The extremities of a single DNA molecule are first attached to 
two magnetic beads, respectively. The extremity with the thiol-modified bead can then 
be moved to the center of the ring trapper, on which the gold is deposited. In this 
approach a tethered-DNA magnetic bead can be immobilized onto a localized gold 
pattern via a highly specific and strong Au-S covalent bond. Subsequently, a series of 
micro-electromagnets are used to manipulate the DNA molecule. A tethered-DNA 
magnetic bead can be moved around under the magnetic field generated by the 
micro-electromagnets.  
Six micro-electromagnets are designed in hexagonal geometry for linear and 
angular movements of a magnetic bead. A ring trapper is utilized to handle the vertical 
movement of the magnetic bead. Thus, a 3-D DNA manipulator can be realized. Six 
micro-electromagnets and a ring trapper have been first fabricated using standard 
lithography, electroplating, and planarization processes [14]. The SEM pictures are 
shown in Fig. 2(a-d). Notably, a micro-electromagnet comprised of 3-D coils wrapped 
with 30 turns, wound around a bar core of high-permeability permalloy (Ni80Fe20). 
The width, spacing and thickness of the coils are 80 μm, 100 μm and 25 μm, 
respectively. A magnetic core has a size of 5.3 mm × 300 μm × 15 μm. Significantly, 
the fabricated permalloy is easy to magnetize and demagnetized, and hence requires a 
low magnetic field strength. Thus, the permalloy can be applied to 
micro-electromagnets involving repeated cycles of magnetization and 
demagnetization, and enhances the magnetic flux density. 
A gold surface for Au-S bonding was then patterned using standard lift-off 
techniques. Thus, thiol-modified λ-DNA could be immobilized onto a localized gold 
pattern and a highly specific and strong covalent bonding of Au-S could be formed. 
Lastly, a fluidic channel was sealed with a coverslip using a double-side sticky tape 
(60-μm thickness, ARclearTM, Adhesives Research Inc., USA). As illustrated in Fig. 
1(b), the DNA molecule was anchored on the top of the flow channel. Therefore, the 
distance between the anchoring point of DNA and the cover slip was around 60 μm. 
Notably, the thin cover slip (100-μm thickness, ERIE SCIENTIFIC Company, USA) 
must be selected for flow cell construction because this type granted additional 70-μm 
spacing when using a 170-μm corrected working distance, oil-immersion objective. It 
can assure that the manipulated DNA molecule is located within the working distance 
of the objective. Dynamic behavior of a single DNA molecule could be observed 
under a microscope and calibration of the magnetic force could be achieved with 
6 
photo-bleaching and photo-scission effects. Typically, a single molecule can be 
observed by constant illumination for a period of 10 min without bleaching.  
 
2.2.3  Thiolization of magnetic beads 
The following step was the magnetic bead activation with thiol-biotin reagents. 
In this study, Sulfo-NHS-SS-Biotin 
(sulfosuccinimidyl-2-(biotinamido)ethyl-1,3-dithiopropionate, Pierce Inc., USA) was 
used because of its good solubility in water (up to approximately 10 mM) and it 
enables thiolization in general buffers. In this study, two super-paramagnetic, 
streptavidin-coated beads, a 2.8-μm diameter bead (magnetic 
moment, 13 2satm 1.42 10 Am
−≈ × , M280, Dynal, Norway) and a 1.0-μm diameter bead 
( 14 2satm 2.25 10 Am
−≈ × , MyOneTM, Dynal, Norway), were used. Subsequently, 
Sulfo-NHS-SS-Biotin of 10 mM in DD water was prepared immediately before use. 
Partial beads that were desired to be modified with thiol groups were mixed with 
Sulfo-NHS-SS-Biotin of 1 mM in PBS buffer (0.1 phosphate, 0.15 M NaCl, pH 7.2). 
The reaction was incubated at room temperature for 30 min, followed by washing 
twice with PBS buffer for removal of the non-reacted Sulfo-NHS-SS-Biotin. The 
thiol-modified beads were stocked in the binding buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0), 1 
mM EDTA, 10 mM NaCl, and 0.1% Tween 20) at 4℃ for further DNA attachment. 
 
2.2.4  DNA attachment onto two-magnetic beads 
The two-end biotinylated λ-DNA of 10 ng/ml was mixed together with the 
modified beads of 5 × 106/ml and unmodified beads of 5 × 106/ml in the binding 
buffer for 3 to 5 min. Significantly, they still had a 1 in 4 probability of collisions 
among λ-DNA molecules and beads, resulting in that one end being bound to a 
non-thiol-modified bead and another end bound to a thiol-modified bead.   
 
2.2.5  DNA anchoring on the gold surface 
Finally, the two-end, tethered-bead λ-DNA molecules were introduced into the 
microfluidic channel integrated with the 3-D magnetic tweezers using a syringe pump. 
When applying a current to the ring trapper, the DNA molecules with magnetic beads 
were trapped to the center of the gold covered surface. Consequently, the 
thiol-modified bead was immobilized on the gold surface. As the magnetic force was 
released, one bead without thiol groups precipitated away from the top Au surface due 
to the higher density compared with the buffer solution, while another one with thiol 
groups was firmly anchored onto the gold surface via Au-S bonding. 
8 
alternating current applied to the opposite micro-electromagnets, as shown in Fig. 
4(b). One end of the DNA molecule was attached to a 1-μm magnetic bead linked to 
the gold surface. The other end was attached to a 2.8-μm magnetic bead suspended in 
the solution. Initially, the tethered-bead DNA molecule was in equilibrium. When 
applying a 50-mA current to the upward coil, an initial stretching of a DNA molecule 
was found in the upward direction. When applying a 100-mA current to the 
downward coil, the DNA molecule was stretched correspondingly. When again 
applying a 200-mA current to the upward coil, the DNA molecule was stretched and 
moved back upwards. The experimental results demonstrate a capability for versatile 
DNA manipulation using alternating current inputs. 
Figure 5 compares the relationship of the force-extension with the various DNA 
stretching techniques at the same level of applied current. As shown in Fig. 5(a), 
when raising the λ-DNA concentration in the bead-binding buffer, 1-μm magnetic 
beads may lead to interactions between two DNA molecules, and two single 
molecules could be simultaneously attached to two magnetic beads. When applying a 
current of 400 mA to the micro-electromagnet, two DNA molecules attached to the 
1-μm magnetic bead were stretched to 6.50 μm. For comparison, a single DNA 
molecule could be elongated to 14.74 μm as shown in Fig. 5(b). These two DNA 
molecules could be regarded as parallel springs.  
Table 1 summarizes the results of DNA stretching, including one single and two 
parallel DNA molecules. The behavior of the two parallel DNA molecules is clearly 
different from that of one single DNA molecule. The extension of two parallel DNA 
molecules is much lower than that of a single DNA molecule. This phenomenon may 
be speculated due to entwinement/curling, variation of attachment points, or even 
nicking. According to the experimental observation, two DNA molecules may be 
slightly entwined and at least are not absolutely parallel bindings. This phenomenon 
would cause a higher spring constant. Although the extension length of DNA can be 
precisely calibrated from the difference between the y coordinates of the beginning 
and ending fluorescence values in an image, the attachment appoints for two parallel 
DNA molecules cannot be well-controlled and be well-defined on the magnetic beads. 
This would lead to the errors in determining the extension length and cannot stretch 
absolutely parallel DNA molecules. In addition, a possible explanation is due to the 
fact that the two parallel molecules have larger temporal fluctuation energy against 
the stretching force. A half of the applied force was applied onto one of DNA 
molecules, causing that the transverse spring constant of DNA became smaller. Thus, 
the larger transverse fluctuations of DNA were easily driven by thermal motion. This 
transverse fluctuation energy can be against the stretching force, leading to a smaller 
extension. On the other hand, DNA nicking is an inevitable effect, especially for 
10 
manipulation have been well-controlled, allowing further magnetic tweezers 
experiments. This technique provides a simple and direct method to stretch a single 
DNA molecule and to measure its force-curve. The error of the DNA stretching force 
mainly depends on the accuracy in determining of the flow velocity and the bead size. 
The overall errors have small values of 3-4%. 
      
3.3  Force-extension curve of DNA 
Figure 8 shows the force-extension relationship for a single DNA molecule, and 
the comparison with the theoretical models. The 3-D magnetic tweezers could stretch 
a single DNA molecule in the entropic and elastic regions. In order to fit the 
measurement data in the elastic region, Hooke’s law (Eq. 2) and Odijk’s model (Eq. 3) 
were used. According to classical elasticity theory and the condition for thermal 
bending equilibrium, two crucial parameters for characterizing DNA flexibility, the 
persistence length (P) and elastic modulus (S = EAcross), are correlated in worm-like 
DNA molecules [26, 27]:  
2
b
SdP
16K T
=                                         
(5)  
When modeling DNA as an elastic rod with d = 2 nm and choosing P = 53 nm, 
the elastic modulus is predicted to be 869 pN by using Eq. 5. Correspondingly, with P 
= 53 nm and S = 869 pN are substituted into the Hooke’s law and the Odijk’s model 
to obtain the curve fits for these equations, as shown in Fig. 8. There is an appreciable 
discrepancy between the data involving the 3-D magnetic tweezers and the fitting data 
involving Hooke’s law. The measured elastic modulus of DNA was determined to be 
453 pN by using the Hooke’s law, significantly below a value of 869 pN calculated 
from Eq. 5. The experimental results reveal that DNA becomes more susceptible to 
elastic elongation. The measured value is consistent with the previous value of 450 
pN reported by Baumann et. al. (at low ionic strength of 9.3 mM Na+) [5], while 
having appreciable deviation from a value of 1087 pN as reported by Smith et. al. (at 
a high ionic strength of 150 mM Na+) [1]. This phenomenon may be due to the fact 
that the high ionic strength can neutralize the majority of negative charges along the 
DNA backbone and may cause the DNA elasticity to change.   
According to the preliminary experiments, those variables in Eq. 5 have been 
precisely controlled and defined except for the elastic modulus (S) and the DNA 
diameter (d). In order to make Eq. 5 consistent with the measured S and P values, the 
diameter of DNA must be increased from 2 nm to 2.77 nm, which seems 
unreasonably large. Another possible explanation is that the DNA structure is not a 
perfectly-homogeneous, cylindrical rod. Instead, it could be a non-uniform cylindrical 
12 
Research, National Cheng Kung University under projects from the Ministry of 
Education and the national Science Council (NSC 93-212-M-006-006). 
 
References 
[1] Smith S B, Chi Y and Bustamante C 1996 Overstretching B-DNA: the elastic 
response of individual double-stranded and single-stranded DNA molecules 
Science 271 795-799 
[2] Marko J F and Siggia E D 1995 Stretching DNA Macromolecules 28 
8759-8770Smith S B, Chi Y and Bustamante C 1996 Overstretching B-DNA: 
the elastic response of individual double-stranded and single-stranded DNA 
molecules Science 271 795-799 
[3] Odijk K 1995 Stiff chains and filaments under tension Macromolecules 28 
7016-7018 
[4] Bustamante C, Marko J F, Siggia E D and Smith S 1994 Entropic elasticity of 
lambda-phage DNA Science 265 1599-1600 
[5] Baumann C G, Smith S B, Bloomfield V A and Bustamante C. 1997 Ionic 
effects on the elasticity of single DNA molecules Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 
94 6185-6190 
[6] Wang M D, Yin H, Landick R, Gelles J and Block S M 1997 Stretching DNA 
with optical tweezers Biophys. J. 72 1335-1346 
[7] Strick T, Allemand J F, Bensimon D, Bensimon A and Croquette V 1996 The 
elasticity of a single supercoiled DNA molecule Science 271 1835-1837 
[8] Haber C and Wirtz D 2000 Magnetic tweezers for DNA micromanipulation Rev. 
Sci. Instrum. 71 4561-4570 
[9] Gosse C and Croquette V 2002 Magnetic tweezers: Micromanipulation and 
force measurement at the molecular level Biophys. J. 82 3314-3329 
[10] Charvin G, Bensimon D and Croquette V. 2003 Single-molecule study of DNA 
unlinking by eukaryotic and prokaryotic type-II topoisomerases Proc. Natl. 
Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 100 9820-9825 
[11] Revyakin A, Ebright R H and Strick T R 2004 Promoter unwinding and 
promoter clearance by RNA polymerase: detection by single-molecule DNA 
nanomanipulation Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 101 4776-4780  
[12] Zlatanova J and Leuba S H 2003 Magnetic tweezers: a sensitive tool to study 
DNA and chromatin at the single-molecule level Biochem. Cell Biol. 81 
151-159 
[13] Fulconis R, Bancaud A, Allemand J F, Croquette V, Dutreix M and Viovy J L 
2004 Twisting and untwisting a single DNA molecule covered by RecA protein 
Biophys J. 87 2552-2563 
[14] Chiou C H and Lee G B 2005 A micromachined DNA manipulation platform for 
the stretching and rotation of a single DNA molecule J. Micromech. Microeng. 
15 109-117 
14 
Table 1: Comparison of the force-extension relationships between one single and 
two parallel DNA stretching. 
 
Applied force 
(pN) 
One DNA stretching  
(μm) 
Two DNA stretching 
(μm) 
0.057 (±3.0%) 
0.090 (±3.1%) 
0.281 (±3.2%) 
0.543 (±3.2%) 
7.61 
10.96 
13.00 
14.74 
3.10 
4.23 
5.96 
6.50 
 
 
 
16 
Sample in
Pad slot
Gold surface
Microelectromagnet
Fluorescence excitation
Sample out
2 cm
Ring trapper
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        (a)                    (b)                     (c) 
 
 
 
 
  (d)                     (e)  
Fig. 2: Photographs showing (a) the fabricated micro-electromagnets (bottom 
layer) and ring trapper, (b) the electroplated permalloy and via holes, (c) the 
electroplated via holes, (d) the top view of micro-electromagnets, and (e) the 
completed assembly of the 3-D magnetic platform.
18 
x
y
z x
y
z
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
     (a)                               (b)    
Fig. 4:  Single molecule manipulation using 3-D magnetic tweezers. (a) 
Stretching of a single DNA molecule linked to thiol-modified beads. (b) DNA 
reciprocating motions by alternating applied current on opposite 
micro-electromagnets. The DNA molecule can be manipulated upward and 
downward.
20 
hλ-DNA
fν
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6: Schematic of force calibration using the modified Stokes’ law. 
