Introduction 
A major function of statistical process control (SPC) is to quickly detect the occurrence of 
assignable causes of process shifts. The control chart is one of widely applied techniques in SPC. 
From previous studies, the exponentially weighted moving average (EWMA) control chart is very 
effective against small process mean shifts. Traditionally, the usual practice in applying a control 
chart is to take samples of equal size from the process at fixed-length sampling interval and plot this 
sample point on the chart with a fixed action limit coefficient. Recently developed variable 
sampling intervals (VSI), variable sample sizes (VSS), variable sample sizes and sampling 
intervals (VSSI) EWMA control charts have been shown to give substantially faster detection of 
most process parameters shifts than the fixed sampling rate (FSR) EWMA chart. Particularly, 
Reynolds and Stoumbos (2001) showed that adding the VSI scheme to the EWMA chart results in 
very substantial reduction in the expected time required to detect shifts in process parameters. Albin 
et al. (1997) recommended the combination of the X  and EWMA charts (i.e., X -EWMA chart) 
be plotted on the same graph and showed that this combined control chart was able to effectively 
detect small and large shifts in the process mean and large shifts in the process standard deviation. 
Traditionally, when designing control charts, one usually assumes that the measurements or 
collected data in the subgroup are normally distributed. However, this assumption may not be 
tenable in some production processes. If the measurements are not normally distributed, the 
traditional way for designing the control chart may not be appropriate. Borror et al. (1999) studied 
the performance of the EWMA chart under non-normality, and concluded that the EWMA control 
chart is relatively robust to the normality assumption.  
 
The VSI EWMA and VSI X -EWMA control charts 
Reynolds et al. (1988) proposed the VSI scheme in the duration of operation that is monitored. 
To simplify the implementation of the proposed VSI scheme, the VSI control chart generally adopts 
two different sampling intervals. The sampling scheme of the VSI control chart is to use the long 
(LCLe, UCLe) Xek σλ
λμ −±= 20 , (5) 
where ek  and ew  are the action limit and warning limit coefficients with the VSI EWMA control 
chart, and ee wk ≥ .  
In the operation of the combined X - EWMA control chart with VSI scheme, the long 
sampling interval h1 is used if both sample points falls within the central region (both C1 and D1), 
and the short sampling interval h2 is used if either sample points falls within the warning region 
(either C2 or D2). The sampling interval function ),( yxd  can be defined by  
⎩⎨
⎧
∈=∈=
∈=∈==
222
111
orif
andif
),(
DyYCxXh
DyYCxXh
yxd
tt
tt  (6) 
As in previous studies (see Reynolds and Stoumbos [7]), the EWMA control chart is much 
better than the Shewhart X  control chart in detecting small shifts in the mean, but not quite as fast 
for large shifts. When the process data are normally distributed, the combined X -EWMA control 
chart has the advantage that the two charts be superimposed. This combined control chart involves a 
modest loss of performance compared with both the EWMA and X  control charts. 
 
Performance indicators 
Traditionally, average run length (ARL), which is defined as the average number of samples 
before the control chart signals an out-of-control condition, is applied to evaluate the performance 
of a control chart. However, when the sampling interval and sample size are variable, the time to 
signal and the observations to signal are not a constant multiple of ARL, and thus ARL is 
inappropriate for evaluating the effectiveness of the adaptive charts. The widely used statistical 
performance indicators for VSI control charts include: in-control ANSS (average number of 
samples to signal), in-control ATS (average time to signal) and AATS (adjusted average time to 
signal). In-control ANSS is defined as the expected number of samples taken from the start of the 
process to the time when the chart indicates a false alarm. In-control ATS is defined as the expected 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
