 - 2 -  
Molecular statics (MS) is a method to find 
the molecular configuration which minimizes the 
total potential energy of the system. In this study, 
conjugate gradient is used to perform this energy 
minimization process. The potential energy 
considered in the molecular system includes 
strain energy and work due to external forces. In 
conventional continuum mechanics, strain 
energy is obtained through constitutive relations 
while in molecular statics it is obtained with 
interatomic potentials. The work due to external 
forces is obtained in the same manner for both 
approaches.  
Without loss of generality, copper (Cu) is 
chosen for the analysis. Embedded-atom-method 
(EAM) potential[6-8] is adopted to describe the 
interatomic interaction for copper. In the EAM 
potential, the interatomic energy is composed of 
a pairwise interaction energy between atoms, 
and an embedding energy, which is an energy to 
embed the atom in the local-electron density 
created by its near neighbors. The parameters in 
EAM potential are fitted to experimentally 
measured bulk material properties, such as 
equilibrium lattice constants, sublimation 
energies, elastic constants, and vacancy 
formation energy.  
The characteristic size effect on the elastic 
properties of nanofilms is studied. Different film 
thicknesses in the z direction are considered. 
Periodic boundary conditions are applied in the x 
and y directions as shown in Fig. 1 to simulate 
an infinite film plane. Meanwhile, the effect of 
crystal orientation is considered as well. Within 
the film plane, two crystal orientations are 
chosen as shown in Fig. 1(a), (b), while the 
normal direction, z, of the nanofilm remains 
[001]. For the purpose of simplicity, we refer to 
the first case and the second case as [100] 
orientation and [110] orientation, respectively.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)    (b) 
Fig. 1 Simple tension in (a) the [100] and (b) 
[110] directions 
For the loading along x[100] direction, the 
initial representative element size is  5 oa  in 
both x and y directions, where oa  is the lattice 
constant of copper. Firstly, the stress-free 
configuration must be obtained for the molecular 
representative element before any external 
loading is applied. The equilibrium atom spacing 
for the film would be different from the 
equilibrium lattice constant for the bulk one 
because of the limited dimension in the thickness 
direction. The stress-free configuration is 
attained by adjusting the periodic box length 
through trial and error. The configuration with 
zero stress state is denoted as the initial 
configuration. The deformation of the molecular 
system is measured in reference to this initial 
configuration. After obtaining the stress-free 
configuration, small deformation of 1% strain is 
applied in the x direction by increasing the x 
x 
y 
z 
[100] 
[100]
[001] 
[110] 
[-110]
[001] 
 - 4 -  
12ν , has a negative value. The value of 12ν  
increases as thickness decreases. As the film 
thickness decreases, 13ν  decreases.  
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 3 Poisson’s ratio as a function of thickness 
for Cu nanofilm (a) in [100] orientaion; (b) in 
[110] orientation. 
From this study, it can be seen that 
Poisson’s ratios of nanofilms depends on film 
thickness and crystal orientation. The Poisson’s 
ratio can even be negative. In the past, negative 
Poisson’s ratio was mostly noticed in 
fiber-reinforced composites. The present results 
seems to imply that the constitutive relation of 
single crystal plate-like nanomaterials can be 
established the same way as used for 
fiber-reinforced composites. This result also has 
significant implication for nanoindentation 
experiments. Nanoindentation is widely used to 
probe material properties at nanoscale. One 
assumption in analyzing nanoindentation data is 
that Poisson’s ratio is a constant. The current 
results show that Poisson’s ratios are far from a 
constant at nanoscale. Therefore, when using 
nanoindentation experiments to probe 
mechanical properties at nanoscale, the 
size-dependent properties of Poisson’s ratios 
should be taken into account.     
4. CONCLUSIONS 
The size-dependent elastic moduli 
(Young’s modulus and Poisson’s ratios) are 
studied using molecular statics method. It is 
found that Young’s modulus in [100] direction 
decreases while the Young’s modulus in [110] 
direction increases as the thickness decreases. 
For simple tension along [110] direction, 
negative Poisson’s ratio is also observed.  
5. REFERENCES 
[1] Vettiger, P., Brugger, J., Despont, M., 
Drechsler, U., Dürig, U., Häberle, W., Lutwyche, 
M., Rothuizen, H., Stutz, R., Widmer, R., and  
Binnig, G., Microelectron. Eng., 46, 11 (1999). 
[2] Ma, Q., Liu, C. L., Adams, J. B., and Balluffi, 
R. W., Acta Metall. Mater., 41, 143 (1993).  
[3] Liu, C. L. and Plimpton, S. J., Phys. Rev. B, 
51, 4523 (1995). 
[4] Horstemeyer, M. F., Baskes, M. I., and 
Plimpton, S. J., Acta Mater., 49, 4363 (2001). 
[5] Miller, R. E. and Shenoy, V. B., 
Film Thickness (Å) 
Poisson’s ratio 
Film Thickness (Å) 
Poisson’s ratio 
