transmission ability. 
I. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE 
In this study, the overall system we developed 
can be divided into four units: (1) signal 
acquisition and amplification unit, (2) wireless 
data transmission unit, (3) Dual- core processing 
and host system for data storage and real-time 
display unit, and (4) warning device. The block 
diagram of the proposed system is given in Fig. 
1. 
 
Fig. 1. Block diagram of the BCI system. 
 
A. Signal Acquisition and Amplifying Unit 
The signal acquisition and amplifying unit is 
used to measure the EEG signal and filter out the 
noise. The amplification unit is applied to filter 
out the artifacts as shown in part (a) of Fig. 2. 
The EEG amplifying circuit consists of a 
pre-amplifier with the gain of 100, an isolated 
amplifier to protect subject, a band-pass filter 
that was composed of a low-pass filter and a 
high-pass filter to reserve 1-100Hz signals, a 
differential amplifier which had the gain of 10 or 
50 (that can be chosen by a switch), and a 60Hz 
notch filter to eliminate the effect of the line 
noise. 
B. Wireless Data Transmission Unit 
Part (b) of Fig. 2 shows the wireless data 
transmission unit. The acquired signal is first 
converted from analog to digital, and then 
transmitted through the wireless modules. The 
ALTERA FLEX10K EPF10K10TC144-3 CPLD 
(Complex Programmable Logic Device) is 
employed to control the A/D converter and 
encode the data for the wireless modules. 
Two different transmission methods can be 
selected according to the transmission distance 
in applications. Bluetooth modules are a 
frequently choice in medical devices with short 
transmission distance. Thus we combined the 
radio frequency (RF) module (RF3100/3105) in 
the system for longer operational distance. 
C. Dual- core processing and storage/display 
unit 
The dual-core processing unit is the main part 
of the wireless portable BCI. The operating core 
is Texas Instruments (TI) Open Multimedia 
Architecture Platform (OMAP) 1510, which is 
composed of an ARM925 processor and a 
TMS320C55x DSP processor. The DSP core was 
used to process EEG data and the ARM925 was 
used to communicate with other devices such as 
wireless transmission modules and TCP/IP 
network. The DSP Gateway is used as the 
cooperation structure for the communication 
between the two cores since these two cores 
have different functions as shown in part (c) of 
Fig. 2. DSP gateway is software that makes 
ARM core possible to use resource of DSP core 
by Application Program Interface (API), and 
works like a small real-time kernel which 
manages the resource and data flow in the DSP 
core. With this mechanism, the DSP processor is 
on only when the system needs to process the 
EEG data. The Linux operating system (OS) is 
built to manage the resource of ARM core. The 
functions of ARM core can be divided into three 
parts: (1) wireless module control, (2) TCP/IP 
control, and (3) DSP gateway driver. A host 
system for data storage and real-time display 
module is designed to store the data and display 
the analysis output and the original EEG wave 
signals on PC as shown in part (d) of Fig. 2. 
 
 Fig. 2. The detail architecture of the BCI system. 
 
D. Warning Device 
The warning device is combined in our system 
as shown in part (e) of Fig. 2. The audio signals 
are more effective for driver drowsiness warning 
and the audio signal of 1750Hz achieves the best 
results. The triggering signals are sending from 
processor to satisfy the requirements. According 
to the characteristics of the processors, the DSP 
processor calculated the driving error estimation 
task which needed a large quantity of continuous 
EEG data computation, and we keep it as a 
module which can be handled by ARM. The 
ARM core executes three tasks: (1) control the 
Bluetooth device to acquire the EEG raw data, (2) 
handle the DSP task to estimate the driving error 
of the driver, and (3) show the results of the 
estimation across the network. The ARM 
processor is selected for these tasks for the 
reason of its excellent interface control ability. 
All process flow and task division is shown in 
Fig. 5. 
 
 
Fig. 5. The structure of the EEG process. 
III. RESULT 
A. Signal Acquisition and amplifying Unit Test 
The test of our system was performed by three 
steps. First, we used EEG simulator to generate 
sin wave with frequency of 5 Hz and the 
amplitude of vibration was set as 30uV. In Fig. 6, 
we used this unit to measure the signal of eye 
blinks, since the amplitude of the signal was 
easy to be distinguished. In order to confirm the 
correctness of measured signal, the subject was 
asked at rest with eye-closed for the occurrence 
of α wave. The α wave with frequency of 
8-12Hz was measured and shown in Fig. 7.  
 
Fig. 6. The EOG signal. 
 
Fig. 7. α wave 
B. Wireless Data Transmission Unit Test 
We used two PCs to control the Bluetooth 
devices. Host device was going to search another 
Bluetooth device automatically. Client device 
waited until host device had found it, and then 
the connection and data transmission were 
started. The CPLD was used to control the client 
device while OMAP 1510 was controlling sever 
device, and then test continued. 
C. Analysis Algorithm 
According to the description in section II, we 
apply our system to estimate the driver’s 
cognitive state. Before performing the estimation 
algorithm on the OMAP, we must train an 
estimation model, test and verify it off-line by 
PC. We used C code to implement our 
estimation algorithm and then evaluated its 
performance by a Matlab program. Fig. 8 shows 
the estimation of the training data and Fig. 9 
shows the estimation of the testing data. The 
blue line is the real driving error and the red line 
is the driving error estimation. In Fig. 8, the 
correlation coefficient of the two time series in 
the training data is 0.94. In Fig. 9, the correlation 
coefficient of the two time series in the testing 
data is 0.8. According to the result, we could use 
the model which was trained off-line to estimate 
the driving error online. This demonstrates that it 
was feasible to estimate driving error as the 
index of drowsiness by using EEG signals. 
 
Fig. 8. The estimation of the training data. 
 
Fig. 9. The estimation of the testing data. 
