2可供推廣之研發成果資料表
□ 可申請專利 □ 可技術移轉 日期：95 年 7月 31 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：光硬化樹脂型快速原型之嵌入式製程研究
計畫主持人：邱雲堯
計畫編號：NSC 94－2622－E－161－005－CC3 學門領域：生產自動化
技術/創作名稱 一種直接製做包覆嵌入件的製造方法
發明人/創作人 邱雲堯、張均豪
本研究提出全新的方法製作線上嵌入件。根據不同嵌入件的幾何形狀、
功能、組合方向等因素，發展一套線上嵌入製程法則，藉由 SL 製程在
產品完成後需經過後照射處理的原理，利用經由事先分析與設計的組
件、支撐與凹穴，將嵌入件定位後，灌入光硬化樹酯，再利用後照射處
理將需要的部分固化處理，以達到嵌入特定嵌入件的目的。經實驗證明
製作效率與能力均符合產業應用需求。
技術說明
In order to solve the existed problems of imbedded process in
stereolithography, a new method of complex inserts packaging fabrication is
proposed in this research. Based on the geometric information, function and
assembly direction of the inserts, the packaging approach is developed. The
approach proposed in this research has been verified by experiments. It
brings considerable contributions to the application of insert packaging in
stereolithography. It is also favorable to the improvement of insert packaging
efficiency and assembly fabrication.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
自動化產業、機械工業、電子 IC 封裝
可開發複合式快速原型機
技術特點
勿需使用模具，即可製做包覆嵌入件的製造方法。可廣泛應用於金屬工
業、塑膠工業、電子 IC 封裝業。
推廣及運用的價值
本技術如順利商業化，可增加自動化產值數千萬甚至數億元。
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
4packaging. These drawbacks led to unsatisfactory results of the insert packaging in
stereolithography. In order to solve the problems, a new method of complex inserts
packaging fabrication in stereolithography is proposed in this paper. Based on the geometric
information, function and assembly direction of the inserts, the packaging approach is developed.
The approach proposed in this paper has been verified by experiments. It brings considerable
contributions to the application of insert packaging in stereolithography. It is also favorable to
the improvement of insert packaging efficiency and assembly fabrication.
Keywords: Rapid Prototyping, Solid Freeform Fabrication, Insert Packaging, Insert
1. Objectives and Motives:
Solid freeform fabrication (SFF) or rapid prototyping (RP) has displayed amazing
potentials in the realms of product design and rapid manufacturing. From the literatures of the
recent years, it is known that the future research trend of RP is small-sizing of rapid prototyping
objects [1] and the manufacturing of assembling objects having complex functions. This paper
aims at solving the problems and proposing a new processing method of insert packaging
encountered in SLA’s manufacturing of complex shape, functional mechanical structure and 
assembling objects.
In the early stage of RP development, it tends to be applied in the construction of original
mold in the area of industrial design. However, in recent years, it tends to develop towards the
manufacturing of functional assembling objects. Under an acceptable tolerance, the
manufactured parts carry good precision, excellent surface precision and high flexibility. This
enables a total process of manufacturing the finished product, without going through additional
assembly [2] [3]. Furthermore, it can also establish the procedure that the parts of different
materials are all embedded in the simple-structured RP object [4], such as embedding the parts of
sensor, controller and bearing etc. into RP before the manufacturing of RP or during its
fabrication.
Kataria [5] et al. explored the method of using photo polymer (SLA) to construct complex
mechanism. Focusing on the various processing features of SLA, such as the design of fixture,
the interference problems of recoating and insert, geometric shape of insert, positioning and
fixture mechanism, and geometry tolerance etc., they proposed a series of process planning
methods, and developed a multiple-shaft SLA machine [6], exploring into the RP processing
realm in times of manufacturing the complex assembling object. However, the problems of
dispensing shadowing, recoater interference, positioning and fixture etc. still limited the
workability for SLA to manufacture assembling object and complex inserts.
In order to avoid obstructing or damaging the functions of flexible part, Chad A. Moore et
al. [7] studied the method to embed flexible part into multi-material prototype, maintaining the
6mobility of insert:
i. If interference occurs, consider changing the forming direction of prototype.
ii. If interference does not occur, cover the insert with a thin layer of wax as a
pre-treatment of the surface of the insert.
Upon completion of the above procedures, RP semi-product can be manufactured
immediately, and then the insert can be embedded. After that, suitable volume of photo
polymer should be poured in, and the procedure of vacuum extraction is undertaken. Then the
product is put into the ultra-violet oven for solidification treatment, acquiring the final product.
Finally, the wax layer between the mobile object and the RP object should be removed after
solidification treatment. The procedures of online insert embedding process described herein
are shown in Figure 2.
2.1 Processes of Online Insert Embedding Approach
Focusing on the functional and characteristic differences of insert, the above procedures
can be summarized into three different treatment methods. Detailed description of these three
processes is as follows:
Process 1：
The embedding of a circular shaft with different sectional area, as shown in Figure 3, is
taken as an example. In general SLA process, as such workpiece is embedded, the insert has to
be divided into two parts to avoid the problem of recoating interference.  The “online insert 
embedding process” proposedin this paper adopts the pre-designed depression that meets the
feature structure of the insert, which then embeds the insert according to the required direction.
After embedding, appropriate volume of photo polymer is poured in up to the surface height.
Finally, post-cure processing treatment is undertaken to acquire the final product. This process
carries two merits: first of all, the avoidance of the problem of recoating interference, and
secondly, additional dismantling of circular shaft is not required.
Process 2：
If the shape of the insert is too complex to design the cavity contour of RP object, which
ultimately causes the failure of embedding the insert, then the “algorithm of support of geometric
feature structure” proposedherein should be employed.
While determining the manufacturing direction of RP object, researcher has to consider
whether the shape structure of the insert might cause any problem to the embedding, and undergo
an analysis of feature structure. The process is as follows: After horizontal scanning of the
shape of the insert, the related information to its shape can be obtained. Then select the feature
support curve to establish the RP feature support.
Next, use normal vector method to judge whether interference will be caused between the
established RP feature support of this model and the insert. If there is no such phenomenon,
8As shown in Figure 5, there must be a certain tolerance between the insert and the cavity.
The design of a lateral positioning structure at the RP object can improve the matching problem
between the insert and the RP object. By so doing, the RP object can contact the insert.
Besides, to position the insert more effectively, a small gap should be left before the processing
for easier control of the pouring of photo polymer.
In order to embed and position the insert rapidly and effectively, the lateral support of
feature algorithm of the insert is proposed. This paper divides it into boundary projection
contour, contour curvature definition and establishment of lateral support point, which then
further discuss into these three steps.
Step 1: Boundary Projection Contour
To avoid the creation of interference between the insert and the RP object in the
embedding process of the insert, the maximum projection area of the insert in the embedding
direction should be acquired. Suppose that when a parallel light irradiates downward from the
top end of the insert, there is a shadow of the insert appeared at the bottom. This shadow is just
the maximum projection contour in such embedding direction. Taking a shaft with changeable
sectional area as an example, the maximum projection contour, as shown in Figure 6, can be
acquired after projection.
The maximum boundary projection contour is calculated by using equations (1)–(3).
Suppose that the contour of the projection contour is an enclosed curve composed of n
segments of straight line. Then it can be equally divided into m points in anti-clockwise
direction. The contour boundary S can be defined as:
S = ｛Pj =（xj , yj）︳j = 1,2,3……….m｝ (1)
In the above equation, P denotes the coordinates of the contour boundary, and m denotes
the number of equation. When S is divided into n subsets, S can be indicated in equation (2)
below:
Si =｛Pij =（xij , yij）︳j = 1,2,3………m,  i = 1,2,3…………n｝ (2)
And S can be expressed as:
S = S1 S∪ 2 S∪ 3………… S∪ n = S∪ i
S = ｛Pj =（xj , yj）︳j = 1,2,3……….m｝
Si =｛Pij =（xij , yij）︳j = 1,2,3………m,  i = 1,2,3…………n｝
Then S can be expressed by equation (3)
10
the insert. Having analyzed the outline curved surface of the insert, a support structure should
be established on the geometric feature at the bottom of the insert. This support structure
should reach the weight of the support insert, and achieve the effect of positioning. To establish
the bottom support of the insert, there are three steps to be taken: effective visible surface
definition, calculation of surface curvature of the insert, and determination of the position of
bottom support point.
Step 1: Effective Visible Surface Definition
In the embedding process of the insert, in order to solve the interference problem between
the insert and the RP object effectively, the visible surface in the embedding direction should be
calculated. Suppose that a parallel light irradiates upward from the bottom of the insert, light
shadow will appear on the surface of the insert, which should be the visible side in such direction.
Taking a shaft with variable sectional area as an example, the visible surface, as shown in the
figure 12, can be acquired after irradiation, which is known as the effective visible surface.
Step 2: Surface Curvature Definition of Insert
 The aim of calculating “efective visible surface” is to determine the position of botom 
support point. Take any random point Pn on the visible surface as the standard point, and find
out the dot product of the normal vector Nn of this point (Pn) and the direction vector of the
adjacent point (Pi), as shown in Figure 13.
The determinant of Cn is specified in the following equation:
cos11  nnnnn LNLNC

(5)
From the above equation, the curvature Cn of any random point n on the surface of the
insert can be obtained. As the point corresponds to the k adjacent points, if the determinant Cn
is negative, and then this point is regarded as a convex point. If the determinant is positive, this
point is regarded as a concave point. But if the determinant is zero, a plane surface will appear
between this point and the adjacent point. The equation
Step 3: Determination of Bottom Support Position
Through the above definition, an effective visible surface can be analyzed at the bottom of
any insert. After that, determinant Cn is used to find out the convex side, concave side and
plane surface, and then the position of the bottom support point can be determined.
If it is judged to be a convex surface, an upward extending cup-shape support structure
should be established from the lowest curve at the bottom, as shown in Figure 14. If it is
judged to be a concave surface, a downward extending column-shape support structure should be
established from the highest point of the depression, as shown in Figure 15. If it is judged to be
a plane surface, no support structure is required.
By using the “rules of lateral support” and “rules of botom support” proposed in this paper,
12
Figure 1. Flowchart of SLA Process.
Figure 2. Flow Chart of Online Insert Embedding Process
(a) (b) (c) (d)
Figure 3. Schematic Diagram of Process 1. (a) Identify the feature of insert. (b) Establish
RP object with cavity. (c) Embed the insert. (d) Pour in photo polymer and carry out
post curing process.
14
Ni
Ti+1
D i>0
N j
Tj+1
Nk
Tk+1
D i=0
D i<0
Figure 7. Determination of Curvature of Various Points on Curve
D=0
D=0
D=0
D=0
D=0
連接點
直線段中點
定位結構
Figure 8. Line-Type Contour Insert and Lateral Positioning Structure
Di<0
Di>0 連接點
凹線段中點
凸線段中點
定位結構
Figure 9. Curve-Type Contour Insert and Lateral Positioning Structure
連接點Di<0
Di>0 D=0
凹線段中點
直線段中點
凸線段中點
定位結構
Figure 10. Hybrid-Type Contour Insert and Lateral Positioning Structure
Di<0
三等分點
側定位結構
Figure 11. Variation-Free and Joint-Free Lateral Positioning Structure of Circular Section of Insert as Dn
＜0
