-2-
Observation-manipulation based hidden Markov models for
identifying military vehicles in real-scene imagery
Brandt Tso†
Department of Information Management, Management College, National Defense University,
70, Sec. 2, Central N Rd., Bei-Tou, Taipei 11245, Taiwan.
摘要
傳統上，隱匿式馬可夫模式係為一維之線性結構，因此並不適於建構二維影像模式，本
研究計畫所提出之’觀測序列’及’觀測密度’調控法將可有效改善此等缺點。對於’觀
測序列’調控法，本研究提出四種鄰邊系統進行測試評估，而對於’觀測密度’調控法，
本研究則提出兩種鄰邊系統進行測試。本研究所測試之影像皆為軍事領域之實境影像，並
且這些影像皆經過前置處理，俾擷取有用的影像特徵值，所使用前置處理之方法係透過小
波轉換及 LAB 光譜轉換之演算法，該等影像係初步區分為’飛機’、’戰艦’、’潛
艦’、’坦克’、及’吉普車’等五大類。本研究發現當小波轉換所擷取之紋理資訊納入
影像分類測試時，影像分類之正確性可增加至少 10%，而主要的實驗結果亦顯示，植基於
隱匿式馬可夫模式之’觀測序列’調控法可有效模擬二維影像，最高可達 68.8%之分類正
確度，所顯示之研究成果充份証明了本研究所研提之方法，並可將此方法作為智慧型系統
之核心，以用於實境影像之辨識。
關鍵字: 觀測序列、隱匿式馬可夫、小波、LAB
Abstract
Traditionally, a hidden Markov model is made of a one-dimensional linear structure, and is
not appropriate for modeling two-dimensional images. The proposed HMMs based on
‘observation-sequence’ and ‘observation-density’ manipulation approaches are expected to
overcome such drawback. For the ‘observation-sequence’ manipulation method, there are
totally four neighborhood systems being evaluated, while two neighborhood systems are tested
in the ‘observation density’ manipulation domain. The test real-scene imagery all belong to
military field and are pre-processed to extract the features using wavelet and LAB transforms.
The image objects being identified are classified into ‘Air-Force’, ‘Warship’, ‘Submarine’,
‘Tank’, and ‘Jeep’, respectively. It is found that if the wavelet texture is added appropriately, the
accuracy can improve at least 10% than using spectral alone. The main experimental results
demonstrate that the proposed observation-manipulation based HMMs can model 2D imagery
well with the best accuracy of 68.8% being achieved. The results evidentially show the
usefulness of proposed methods, and can be used as the core of intelligent system in
recognizing real-scene objects.
Keywords: observation-manipulation; hidden Markov model; wavelet, LAB
† Tel:+886 2 28986600 Ext 604404; E-mail address: brandttso@yahoo.com.tw (B. Tso)
-4-
information extraction field (Tso & Chang, 2007). Applications of the HMM to image
processing has been also growing (Tso & Mather, 2001). When an HMM is implemented for
modeling image, the most straightforward method of incorporating pixels into HMM is by
sweeping the image line by line or column by column. It is noted that the original theory of
HMM assumes a one-dimensional linear dependent structure (Baum & Egon, 1967; Rabiner,
1989), while an image is normally two-dimensional in a contextual sense. The spatial
dependencies are thus not well modeled with the linear structure of HMMs, and may result in
restrictions to the object representation and later recognition accuracy.
There are alternative strategies to build 2D HMMs, or so-called Markov meshes to pursue
better fitness for such 2D spatial dependencies (Li, Najmi, & Gray, 2000). However, as noted
by Li, Naimi, and Gray (2001) that using 2D HMMs requires developing considerably
complicated algorithms for searching optimal model states. This may require making additional
assumptions regarding models, and also contribute much heavier computational load. There is
also another technique called pseudo 2D HMM (Eickeler, Mller, & Rigoll, 2000) which are
extensions of one-dimensional HMM and are obtained by linking one-dimensional left to right
HMMs to form vertical super-states. These super-states model the sequence of rows in the
image, and the linear 1-dimensional HMMs (which are inside the super-states) model each row.
The applications of pseudo 2D HMM for object recognition are highly restricted to the images
that the location of object(s) have to be the same (such as passport photo of human face), and
thus is not applicable to the real scene images in which the locations and directions of objects
vary considerably among images.
To make HMMs useful in solving real-scene object recognition issue, rather than making
changes to the HMM structure, this study therefore developed methodology in terms of spatial
and feature space manipulation within a linear HMM to pursue the possibility of object
recognition in a more robust way. In the methodology developed, the primary aim is to embed
2D information into one-dimensional HMM. The ways of converting 2D information of the
image object into one-dimension HMM and then implemented to object recognition task are
thus the main interest of this study. The techniques being developed for modeling images using
HMM include ‘observation-sequence’ and ‘observation-density’ adjustments as will be detailed
in the later section.
This study presents the results of identifying military vehicles from real scene imagery. The
works described here is part of functions of MrSMIR (Multi-resolution Semantic-based Military
Imagery Retrieval) system currently under construction (Tso, 2007), which is a military digital
library and intelligent image retrieval system. The experiments performed in this study are part
of core functions planned in MrSMIR. The rest of paper is organized as follows. In section 2,
the fundamentals of HMM theory are introduced. The methodology of converting 2D spatial
information into one dimension HMM is detailed in section 3. Two types of approaches,
namely ‘observation-sequence’ adjustment methods and ‘observation-density’ adjustment
methods, are proposed. In section 4, several methods are compared and the encouraging
experimental results along with discussions are described. Finally, concluding remarks and the
suggestions for future researches are given in section 5.
2. Theoretical Background
2.1 HMM theory
A hidden Markov model (HMM) is distinguished from a general Markov model in which
the states in an HMM cannot be observed directly (i.e. hidden) and can only be estimated
through a sequence of observations generated along a time series. Assume the total number of
states being N, and let both tq and to each denotes the system state and the observation at
time t. An HMM, , can be formally characterized by =(A, B, ), where A is a matrix of
-6-
     1 1 1 , For 1 , For 1
N
t i t t ijj
i b o i a t T i N 
  
     
  (12)
Let the backward probability  t i be the conditional probability of observing the observation
sequence  to 1 2, , ... ,t T t t TO o o o  after time t given that the state at time t is i. As with the
forward probability, the  t i can be solved inductively as
  1, 1T i i N    (13)
     1 11 , = -1, -2, ..., 1, 1
N
t ij j t tj
i a b o j t T T i N 
 
   (14)
The probabilities  t i and  ,t i j are then solved by
 
   
   1
t t
t N
t ti
i i
i
i i
 

 



(15)
 
     
     
1 1
1 11 1
, t ij j t tt N N
t ij j t ti j
i a b o j
i j
i a b o j
 

 
 
  

 
(16)
By analyzing the structure and major parameters in the HMM training algorithm as
described in equations (7) to (16), it is clear that the resulting hidden state sequence is strongly
dependent on the distribution of observations  i tb o , and observation sequence O={o1, o2, … ,
oT }. Specifically, one may sequentially determine the effectiveness of parameters through
following trace:
1.  i tb o and O both affect  t i and  t i as shown in Eq. (11) to (14);
2.  t i and  t i make up  t i and  ,t i j as shown in Eq. (15) and (16);
3.  t i and  ,t i j determine i , ija , and  i tb o according to Eq. (7) to (10), and
eventually generates hidden states estimation Q*.
As a result, if both the observation density  i tb o and observation sequence O={o1, o2, … , oT }
are well managed, the revealed hidden state sequence will be closer to the ideal situation (e.g.,
reveal object patches ). Based on the theoretical inference shown above, this study therefore
develops the ‘observation-sequence’ adjustment, and ‘observation-density’ adjustment methods
so as to pursue the possibility of embedding 2D information into one-dimension HMM and in
further to improve the performance in object recognition from real scene imagery.
For incorporating a 2D image into an HMM, the most straightforward manner is sweeping
the image line by line to fit the pixels into HMM. Fig. 1a shows an example of 4  4 image. The
sweeping process visits each pixel through left-right, strip-like, direction as shown in Fig. 1b. It
is observed that such kind of arrangement uses only one-dimensional spatial dependencies.
Each pixel gains contextual effectiveness only from its preceding left-hand side pixel.
According to the characteristics of HMM, such an arrangement is unable to model image well.
To overcome such drawback, three types of ‘observation sequence’ adjustments are proposed,
namely, Hilbert-Peano sequence (Abend, Jarley, & Kanal, 1965) (Fig. 1c), ‘V’-like (Fig. 1d)
and ‘U’-like (Fig. 1e) sequences. These methods provide more flexibility than strip-like
approach in involving 2D neighborhood information.
The proposed observation sequence adjustment methods are detailed in follows. A 4x4
visiting example as shown Fig. 1(c) is the basic structure required for explaining Hilbert-Peano
sequence. The Hilbert-Peano sequence adopts a fractal-like (i.e. self-similarity) concept to visit
the pixels within an image. As the ‘V’-like observation sequence is concerned (Fig. 1(d)), it
incorporates pixels into HMM through a repeated ‘V’ shape scan. For instance, according to the
-8-
4
4
1
2

i
ip (17)
where pi is the value of pixel i within a 2x2 block. As a result, the images will eventually be of
32x48 subjected to further process.
3.2. Image categorizing and model training
Currently under constructing MrSMIR system contains around 3000 real-scene images.
The images are categorized into five higher-level classes, namely, air-force, warship, submarine,
tank, and jeep. For experimental purposes, 250 images are selected for each class. At the time
being, the object categories are being further defined in a hierarchical sense accompanied with
linguistic indices to describe the image in more detail in order to support multi-functional
applications in near future. Fig.3 displays the samples in L band of each defined category. As
described earlier, totally six methods (as shown in Fig.1 (b) to (g)) for fitting images to HMMs
are evaluated. As one should recognize that, for real-scene object recognition, the major
difficulty being encountered is that the objects are generally shown in different aspects, and
thus may cause potential error in degrading object recognition accuracy. As such issue is
concerned, in the HMM model training stage, the images of each classes for serving HMM
training are divided into eight sub-categories according to different aspects (depending on
object heading) as shown in Fig. 4. Note that within real scene imagery, the object aspects may
very considerably. The measures taken in Fig. 4 are a straightforward attempt to reduce the
error could cause in HMM training stage. In other words, for each class, there will be eight
HMMs for serving object recognition and totally 40 HMMs are constructed for five classes.
For each class, the training and testing samples are equally divided into 125 images each.
However, due to the number of different aspect images for each class being various, the number
of training samples for each aspect may differ from 3 to 12 images used to train a corresponding
HMM. After trainings for HMMs are complete, each test image is then input to each HMM and
the likelihood is computed using the Baum-Welch algorithm (Baum & Egon, 1967). The test
image will be classified into the class to which the corresponding HMM outputs the highest
likelihood. The performances of all the proposed HMMs are then evaluated.
4. Results and Discussions
Totally six HMM modeling methods in which four are ‘observation-sequence’ adjustment
and two are ‘observation-density’ adjustment are implemented and the analysis uses spectral L,
A, and B bands as basis to incorporate each and the possible combinations of HL, LH, and HH
bands to evaluate the corresponding robustness in object recognition. For all the HMMs, the
original model parameters, namely, A, B, and , are randomly assigned following the
methodology shown in Rabiner (1989). The hidden state (i.e., cluster) sequence Q* is then
estimated using dynamic programming (Baum & Petrie, 1966; Baum & Egon, 1967) so as to
make ( , )P Q O  maximized. The iterations of the model parameters estimations in this study
all can converge within 10 runs.
The choice of the number of HMM hidden states requires further notation. When
implementing HMM for modeling image contents, the pixel values correspond to the HMM
observations, and the hidden states then correspond to the patches to which the pixel belongs.
Therefore, one idea of selecting suitable number of states may correspond roughly to the
number of patches being formed within imagery. Hence HMM with from 2 to 10 states would
be generally appropriate in the real-scene military image set used depending on how
complicated the object and background within an image are. Rabiner (1989) however also
demonstrates that as the number of states greater than 3, the errors are somewhat insensitive to
-10-
5 Concluding remarks
The potentials of using HMM in modeling imagery and performing object recognition
have been demonstrated in this research. The experiments for using observation-manipulation
based HMMs in identifying military vehicles are performed and the accuracies are shown. It is
found that the proposed HMMs using ‘observation-sequence’ adjustment are superior
approaches for modeling imagery than using one-dimensional context alone. For identifying
objects using proposed ‘U’-like HMM fitting method can achieve up to 68.8% in accuracy. The
study also demonstrates the usefulness of HMM accompanied with wavelet texture information
in improving object recognition. The future works will be focusing on developing algorithms
inside MrSMIR system for automatically linguistic indexing and interactive image retrievals.
Acknowledgements
The computing facility is provided by Department of Information Management, Management
College, NDU, Taiwan. The research is sponsored by National Science Council (NSC) Taiwan
under contract no. NSC-96-2221-E-606-028.
References
Abend, K., Jarley, T.J., & Kanal, L.N. (1965) Classification of binary random patterns. IEEE
Transactions on Information Theory, 11, 538–544.
Baum, L.E., & Egon, J.A. (1967) An inequality with applications to statistical estimation for
probabilistic functions of a Markov process and to a model for ecology. Bulletin of the
American Meteorological Society, 73, 360–363.
Baum, L.E., & Petrie, T. (1966) Statistical inference for probabilistic functions of finite state
Markov chains. Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 37, 1554–1563.
Baum, L.E., Petrie, T., Soules, G., & Weiss, N. (1970) A maximization technique occurring in
the statistical analysis of probabilistic functions of Markov chains. Annals of Mathematical
Statistics, 41, 164–171.
Bertozzi, M., Broggi, A., Caraffi, C., Del Rose, M., Felisa, M., & Vezzoni, G. (2007) Pedestrian
detection by means of far-infrared stereo vision. Computer Vision and Image Understanding,
106, 194-204.
Bian, L. (2003) Retrieving urban objects using a wavelet transform approach. Photogrammetric
Engrineering and Remote Sensing, 69, 133-141.
Chen, Y., Bi, J., & Wang, J.Z. (2006) MILES: Multiple-instance learning via embedded
instance selection. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 28(12),
1-17.
Chen, Y., Wang, J.Z., & Krovatz, R. (2005) CLUE: Cluster based image retrieval by
unsupervised learning. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 14(8), 1187-1201.
Cole, R., Hirschman, L.,Atlas, L., & Beckman, M. (1995) The challenge of spoken language
systems: Research directions for the nineties. IEEE Transactions on Speech Audio
Processing, 3, 1–21.
Daubechies, I. (1992) Ten Lectures on Wavelets. Philadelphia: SIAM.
Eickeler, S., Mller, S., & Rigoll, G. (2000) A recognition of jpeg compressed face images based
on statistical methods. Image & Vision Computing, 18, 279–287
Forsyth, D.A., & Ponce, J. (2002) Computer Vision: A Modern Approach. Prentice Hall, 2002.
Gevers, T., & Stokman, H. (2004) Robust Histogram Construction from Color Invariants for
-12-
Fig. 1. (a) A 44 image; (b) Strip-like sequencing; (c) Hilbert-Peano sequencing; (d) ‘V’-like
sequencing; (e) ‘U’-like sequencing; (f) One side observation-density adjustments; (g)
Two side observation-density adjustment
(a)
p11 p12 p13
p21 p22 p23
p31 p32 p33
p14
p24
p34
p41 p42 p43 p44
-14-
o1={p11, p21} o2={p12, p22}
…
o5={p21, p31}
…One-side
neighborhood
(f)
o1={p11, p12 , p31} o2={p12, p22 , p32} …
o5={p21, p31 , p41} …Two-sideneighborhood
(g)
Fig. 2. Example of image ‘tank’ transformed from RGB to LAB and then to wavelet features.
RGB
L
A
B
HL
LH
HH
-16-
Fig. 4. Totally eight aspects devoted for performing HMMs training.
Tail
Face
Heading RightHeading Left
Heading
Upper-Right
Heading
Upper-Left
Heading
Lower-RightHeading
Lower-Left
