 1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫
 成 果 報 告   
期中進度報告 
 
仿人類自然步態之雙足機器人設計、分析與控制(2/3)  
 
Design, analysis and control of a bipedal robot which mimics the natural gait of 
human walking (2/3) 
 
計畫類別：個別型計畫 □整合型計畫 
計畫編號： 100-2628-E-007-032- 
執行期間： 100 年 8 月 1 日至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：葉廷仁 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：葉展宏、李建佑、王亭諭、黃國豪、吳念宇 
  
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)： 精簡報告  □完整報告 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列
管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
 
執行單位：國立清華大學動力機械工程學系 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  5  月  31  日 
 
 
 3 
人的行走，期望機器人的行走動態與人類的
行走動態更為相似；藉由與人相似的親和力，
未來可利用在醫療服務或是休閒娛樂上..
等。 
三、研究方法 
  在本年度的研究中，已完成欠致動雙足機
器人的實體模型及腳底壓力感測器模組。在
理論方面，由欠致動雙足機器人在矢狀平面
上的動態模型來發展其控制理論。 
 
3.1 行走策略設計與電腦模擬分析 
在研究雙足機器人行走時，較常遇到下
面三項問題。第一項為腿部機構的自由度多
於移動所需的最少自由度。第二項為行走過
程中會出現腳底與地面碰撞、單腳支撐及雙
腳支撐等不同的姿態，而結合出機器人的混
成動力學（hybrid dynamics）。最後是足部
機構設計伴隨而來的欠致動系統。為了簡化
這些項目的複雜度，我們回歸到使機器人的
重心向前移動此出發點。並以 Segway的移動
方式做為借鏡，逐步類比到實際上的雙足機
器人模型，並依此來發展雙足機器人的行走
理論。 
 
3.1.1 欠致動雙足機器人行走分析 
     首先，賽格威（Segway）部分的輪子可
視為有無限多隻腳與地面做承接，將其簡化
為八腳輪作分析，可推得上半身傾斜角度與
穩態前進速度的關係，接著將八腳換為三連
桿雙足機器人，藉此分析動態的影響。 
 
 
Figure 3- 1 Segway行走方式漸進分析 
 
3.1.1.1賽格威（Segway）分析 
    在考慮特定的滾動摩擦、幾何尺寸與系
統慣量質量的情況下，由 Figure 3-2所示，
當以 PD控制到維持等速前進(200deg/s，
3.5rad/s)時，Figure 3-3 對應的上半身傾斜角
度須傾斜約四度來抵抗滾動摩擦造成的力
矩。 
 
Figure 3-2： Segway輪子角速度 
 
Figure 3-3： Segway上半身傾斜角度 
 
3.1.1.2 八腳輪加上半身分析 
3.1.1.2.1 動態模型 
a.一般模型 
θ2
l1
l2
θ1
m2,I2
m1
Z1
Z2
 
Figure 3-4： 八腳輪加上半身模型 
 
    定義θ1 為支撐腳與鉛錘線間夾角，θ2
為水平線與上半身間夾角，m1,m2 為輪子與
上半身質量中心點，可推得以下方程式 
                       
        
           
矩陣詳細參數見附錄 A(1) 
 5 
 
Figure 3-8：八腳輪部分支撐腳角速度(有推進衝力) 
 
Figure 3-9：上半身傾斜角度(有 impulse) 
 
3.1.1.3 三連桿雙足機器人分析 
3.1.1.3.1三連桿雙足機器人模型 
a.一般模型 
 
Figure 3-10：雙足機器人模型 
 
    定義θ1 、θ2、θ3分別為支撐腳、擺動
腳、上半身與鉛錘線間夾角，m、mw、mu為
腳、腰、上半身部分質量中心點，可推得以
下方程式 
 
          
  
矩陣詳細參數見附錄 B(1) 
 
b.碰撞模型 
    於支撐腳部分新增兩位置向量[z1,z2]以
描述碰撞座標得碰撞模型 
 
 
               
  
矩陣詳細參數見附錄 B(2) 
 
C.碰撞模型+impulse 
 
 
 
其中 F1為碰撞瞬間支撐腳所施予的 impulse 
矩陣詳細參數見附錄 B(3) 
 
3.1.1.3.2 行走策略 
    在機器人行走過程中，會設定一個上半
身的傾斜角度，並利用髖關節的致動器平衡
重力矩並保持等速前進，以此作為行走的動
力來源。Segway與機器人有不同的模型，故
雙足機器人利用擺動腳以仿人類行走步態來
達到輪胎的功能。 
由 Figure 3- 10、3- 11所示為雙足機器人等速
行走策略，設定好前進角速度(      )與上半
身傾斜角度(      )後交由控制策略，碰撞發
生後(       )經由轉換矩陣產生新的角
度與角速度，並繼續下一周期的行走。 
tilt angle setangular velocity set
control 
strategy
Impact happen
angle、angular 
velocity change 
yes
no
 
Figure 3- 11：欠致動雙足機器人行走控制策略流程圖 
 
3.1.1.3.3 模擬結果 
    接續以上分析，上半身控制仍以維持等
速前進為控制目標，將八角輪換為支撐腳與
2
2 2 12 2 2
( ) ( ) ' ( )
0( ) 0
i i i e i i s
i
D q J q q D q q
FJ q
    


     
     
      
2
2 2 12 2 2
( ) ( ) ' ( )
0( ) 0
i i i e i i s
i
D q J q q D q q
FJ q
    


     
     
      
 7 
加入額狀平面(側方向)相配合。 
所以我們設計足部壓力感測器來量測腳
掌受地面的反作用力中心，即 ZMP。在額狀
平面控制部分，以讓 ZMP落在穩定的區域內
為控制目標，來增加行走時的穩定性和速
度。 
 
Figure 3-18：腳底壓力感測器模組機構 
四、結果與討論 
    本章將呈現以上階段理論為基礎下，雙
足機器人連續六步的行走及側方向自我平衡
的實驗結果。 
    前進方向使用上述基於事件的控制方法;
側方向穩定控制部分，透過回授腳底 ZMP資
訊，將 ZMP控制在合理範圍以確保其穩定
性。 
 
4.1 雙足機器人行走實驗結果 
 
Figure 4-1：雙足機器人六步行走結果 
 
 由 Figure 4- 1所示，我們可以看出機器
人能夠藉由我們提出的行走策略完成連續的
行走。 
4.2雙足機器側向自我平衡結果 
 
Figure 4-2：側向自我平衡實驗結果 
 
由 Figure 4- 2所示，我們可以看出機器人在
側方向上能抵抗干擾，保持側方向 ZMP在我
們所設定的位置(此處設為側方向中心)。 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
    在此階段的研究中，我們提出了一種仿
人類自然步態的雙足機器人行走策略，由
Segway控制策略為出發，探討將輪子換為八
腳輪與雙足的關係。並由實作證明上一年度
基於事件控制之欠致動雙足機器人的行走策
略的可行性。未來對於雙足機器人的行走，
我們希望建立一套建構在單純的調節器控制
(regulator control)目的下之行走方式。並
減少各致動器的軌跡規劃，使機器人有更類
似人類的行走步態。 
此外，本年度著重在矢狀平面的分析，
實作上則必須另外考慮到額狀平面相耦合的
關係，未來在腳底壓力感測器的幫助下，希
望其影響一併加入，建構可行的 3D機器人行
走策略。 
   綜言之，本計劃迄今之執行已有不錯的成
果，且與規劃進度相符。本研究團隊下一年
度會秉持同樣積極認真的工作態度，繼續努
力。 
 
六、參考文獻 
[1] M. Hirai, et al., “The Development of 
Honda Humanoid robot,” in Proc., IEEE 
International Conference on Robotics and 
Automation, pp. 1321-1326, May 1998.  
 9 
        
     
 
(2)碰撞模型 
Di為正定對稱矩陣 
D11~ D33部分與一般模型的參數相同 
                              
                               
                          
 
 
    
 
 
                     
                                 
    
                
                
  
(2) 碰撞模型+impulse 
    
     
     
  
 2
外亦介紹幾個相關的例子，然後再把其應用於實作上目前已成功的使領頭影響整體，可是 Spong 博士
也有提到現實的考量需有更多的變因，所以還需要再多加考量再改進。Alexey Borisov 博士主要是先介
紹一些理論用於 Nonholonomic Systems 上的說明，並於最後測試實際上的演練，但從實際的成果發現，
理論上得到的控制結果還不足以成功控制，因為環境產生的影響不可忽視，但在理論的部分則可算是
非常的完整。 
筆者與會的論文題目為 ” Balancing Control of a Pedaled, Self-balanced Unicycle for Better 
Human-Machine Interaction”。此項研究為筆者先前主持國科會計畫「綠色城市─個人與公共載具設計-綠
色城市─個人與公共載具設計」的衍生結果。本研究係以一保留原始腳踏功能同於具備自我平衡能力的
便攜式獨輪車為主軸，討論此特殊系統的模型推導、馬達驅動技術、以及平衡控制器設計。此獨輪車
係作為輕便型個人載具之用，其在體積與重量方面皆較傳統電動腳踏車或 Segway 小。而人力腳踏功能
更可以作為主要能源輸入以減少電力耗用，增加續航力，並配合高效率的馬達驅動技術使得此載具能
同時滿足綠能與方便性的需求。.為了降低人力腳踏與電動平衡控制之間的相互干擾因而建立更佳的人
機互動，我們提出一個具有適應功能的平衡控制器設計。這個平衡控制器可與一特殊設計的無刷直流
馬達驅動器作整合，因而自動適應未知的車體(含騎乘者)的重心位置，並使干擾騎乘者腳踏力矩的馬
達控制力矩降到最低研究亦以實驗方式驗證此載具消耗的電能，結果顯示人力腳踏模式下所耗費的電
能明顯較純電動模式下的少，說明了此概念的可行性。本研究提出之人力混和自我平衡獨輪車為文獻
上首見，具有電動腳踏車與 Segway 的特點，不但可作為短程移動的主要載具，更可配合大眾運輸系統
達到長距離移動的目的。 
 
二、 與會心得 
此次研討會較吸引筆者的議程為影像視覺相關與機器人控制。經過這次的研討會，筆者認為日本
與台灣的研究存在著差異。主要為日本的研究非常注重細節，並且各方面的主題都有許多學者加入討
論。以人形機器人為例，此次研討會關於此主題的有：多個人形機器人共同搬運物品的控制、雙足機
器人在不同程度重力場下的影響、以視覺模仿人抓取物品的影像處理與手部控制、…等。反觀國內的
研究常常以大而廣泛的問題做為研究主題，但卻無法得到細緻而完整的解決方案；亦或是追隨主流研
究主題，該問題可能已被廣泛討論，研究只能靠些微的改變來達到貢獻。筆者認為日本這方面的研究
態度可以視情況參考。另一值得學習的部分為儘管許多研究的重點為演算法部分，但其硬體設備也會
以高完成度的方式組裝，再度體現了日本研究的細膩。 
 
 
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
   略 
 
四、 建議 
 
此次研討會途中發現投影機有問題，造成了演講時間的耽擱，還有演講室大小不一致，有些演講
室場地太大，有些場地太小，所以下次租借場地時可以依據參加人數來妥善規劃座位，並能事先確認
儀器的運作。 
 
 
 4
   
  
Abstract— In this paper, a pedaled, self-balanced, personal mobility vehicle is developed.  The vehicle is 
structurally similar to a pedaled unicycle but uses a brushless DC (BLDC) hub motor as its main driving 
wheel. In order to reduce the interference and provide a better human-machine interaction, a novel balancing 
controller with the adaptation capability is proposed. This balancing controller, when working together with 
a specially designed low-level BLDC driver, can adapt to the uncertain center of gravity of the vehicle frame 
plus the rider, and the amount of motor torque that fights against the pedaling torque can be reduced to 
minimum.  The control system is implemented and the performance is experimentally validated. 
 
Keywords—Inverted-Pendulum, Intelligent transportation systems, Control, Car robotics  
I. INTRODUCTION 
ecently, the increasing concern over the environmental impact of the internal combustion engine vehicles 
(ICEVs), along with the soaring of oil prices, has provided a compelling impetus to develop clean, efficient, 
and sustainable vehicles. Among the possible actuators for implementing such vehicles, electric motors are 
considered to be the most viable ones due to their zero-emission nature.  Vehicles driven by electric motors 
are referred to as EVs.  EVs appear in the forms of electric buses, electric cars, and so on.  They have the 
potential to curb the pollution problem in an efficient way.  
In densely populated urban environments, EVs for personal mobility purposes are increasingly accepted as 
capable, even appealing, forms of transportation, Vehicles in this category include electric bicycles, electric 
kick scooters, electric motorcycles, and electric scooters.  Following the recent advances in digital computers, 
                                                 
 
Both authors are with the Department of Power Mechanical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan (e-mail: 
benson516@hotmail.com; tyeh@pme.nthu.edu.tw  ) 
 
論文全文 
Balancing Control of a Pedaled, Self-balanced Unicycle for Better 
Human-Machine Interaction 
Chun-Feng Huang, Chen-Haw Hong, and T.-J. Yeh 
 
R 
 6
 
 
Fig. 1: Photo of Legway 
II. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION 
A. Model of Legway 
 
θb
θw
r
wheel
(mw, Iw)
body
(mb, Ib)
Φ
θg
θb = θg + Φ
τw = τm + τp +τf
l
θr
 
Fig. 2 Schematics of the wheeled pendulum model 
Ignoring the couplings with the yaw and row dynamics, the dynamics of Legway in the pitch direction can 
be modeled by the wheeled pendulum shown in Fig. 2.  While the wheel represents the in-wheel BLDC hub 
motor, the pendulum body models the vehicle frame and the rider all together. In Fig.2,   wm  and wI  
respectively denote the mass and inertia of the wheel,  bm  and bI  respectively denote the mass and inertia 
of the pendulum body, rθ  is the angle of the road slope, wθ is the absolute rotation angle of the wheel, gθ  
is the absolute inclination angle of the center of the gravity (COG) of the pendulum body, bθ  is absolute 
inclination angle of a fixed spot on the vehicle frame where the tilt sensor is attached and gb θθφ −= , wτ is 
the relative mechanical torque between the pendulum body and the wheel that wτ  consists of the motor 
 8
)(sin )(1
)(
rlbm
rbmwm
g s
rgb clrm +− −=−= θγ , 
)(sin )(1
)(
rlbm
rbmwm
g s
gb cglm +− −== θλ  ,  2γαβη −=  
 In (2), δ  represents the perturbation around the equilibrium state.  Notice that for simplicity, the 
symbol δ  will be ignored in the subsequent discussion. 
 
B. Motor dynamics and motor driver 
As revealed by the eigenvalues of the A matrix in (2), the pitch dynamics of Legway is open-loop unstable.   
Moreover, the state equation therein can be used to verify that the system is controllable using the motor 
torque mτ .   Therefore, in this research, we consider using mτ  to not only stabilize/balance the vehicle but 
also act as an alternative source of propulsion to the rider’s pedaling torque.   
 The motor torque, which is generated by a BLDC hub motor, is regulated by controlling the motor 
current via a motor driver.  Since positive torque or negative torque for a wide range of rotational speed is 
needed for balancing, accelerating or decelerating the vehicle, the motor driver devised for this research can 
automatically switch between the motoring mode and the regeneration mode for the sake of energy efficiency.  
The motor driver also provides a simple, consistent motor dynamics regardless of the mode switching.  
 
 
Fig. 3: The three-phase bridge circuit 
 The motor driver mainly contains a three-phase bridge circuit to which the three-phase stator coils of the 
BLDC motor are connected, and a mode switching module.  In the three-phase bridge circuit shown in Fig.3, 
bV  is the supply DC voltage provided by the battery, and Q1~Q6 are power MOSFETs which are either in on 
or off state depending on the respective gate input voltage.  Every two of the MOSFETs in series constitute 
an arm and totally there are three arms (A, B, C).   During the operation, one of the arms is deactivated that 
both of the MOSFETs in the arm are turned off.  The other two arms, with each of which having at least one 
of the MOSFETs turned on, are characterized as the positive arm and the negative arm respectively.  How the 
positive, negative and the deactivated arms are chosen among the three arms depends on the rotor position and 
follows the six-step switch sequence as shown in Table. 1.     
Basically, the six-step commutation sequence makes the permanent-magnet rotor approximately °90 away 
from aligning with the stator’s magnetic field to maximize the torque generated.  During each step, two of 
the stator coils are in series and are energized by the three-phase bridge.  Because the three-phase bridge now 
becomes an H bridge frequently used for driving brushed DC motors, to regulate the current consequently the 
motor torque, the switching module proposed in [6] is adopted.  The operation of the switching module is 
briefly described in the following. 
 
 10
voltage of bV1α  to the motor. The H-bridge in this case acts as a buck converter. The motor current i  flows 
from left to right in Fig.4 and a positive torque is generated. The current dynamics in the forward motoring 
mode is thus given by 
bm VkRidt
diL 1αω =++        (4) 
(Forward Motoring, 0≥i ) 
In this equation, the back emf ( emfV ) has already been substituted by ωmk  in which mk  is the motor 
constant and ω  is the motor speed. Notice that given the motor constant mk , the motor torque ( mτ ) is 
related by the current ( i ) by ikmm =τ .  
In forward regeneration mode, the motor speed is positive which results in a positive back emf voltage. 
Moreover, PUQ , NUQ  and NLQ  are always turned off, and the gate input of PLQ  is controlled by PWM 
signal. The PWM switching on PLQ  with a duty ratio 2α  is equivalent to applying a positive voltage of 
bV)1( 2α−  to the motor. The H-bridge in this case acts as a boost converter. If the initial current for this mode 
of operation is non-positive, and the back emf voltage emfV  is greater than the equivalent battery voltage, 
then according Fig. 5, the motor current i  flows from right to left to charge the battery and a negative torque 
is generated. The current dynamics in the forward regeneration mode is given by 
 
bemf VVRidt
diL )1( 2α−=++      (5) 
(Forward Regeneration, 0<i ) 
Mode PUQ  PLQ  NUQ  NLQ  
Forward 
motoring 
PW
M 
OFF OFF ON 
Forward 
regeneration 
OFF PW
M 
OFF OFF 
Reverse motoring OFF ON PW
M 
OFF 
Reverse 
regeneration 
OFF OFF OFF PW
M 
Table 2: Switching table of the H-bridge circuit 
The operations of reverse motoring and reverse regeneration modes are respectively similar to those of 
forward motoring and forward regeneration modes. The states of the four MOSFETS for the four modes are 
listed in Table 2.  
The analysis on current dynamics leads to four linear, 1st order differential equations which are different from 
mode to mode.  The applicable equation at any given time instant depends on the direction of the current and 
the duty ratio of the PWM MOSFET of the corresponding mode.   
The switching module in the motor driver determines which mode the motor should be switched to for 
proper operation.  Furthermore, to facilitate the subsequent control design, it also provides an input 
transformation so that a single 1st order differential equation can describe the current dynamics of all the four 
 12
III. BALANCING CONTROL DESIGN 
To stabilize Legway, one may consider adopting the control systems used in other wheeled 
inverted-pendulum vehicles [1][3][4].  For those control systems, the motor torque/current is typically 
treated as the control input2 , and is computed by a PID like algorithm using the measured pitch angle ( bθ ) 
and pitch rate ( bθ& ).  Those control systems share a common feature that, on the level ground, whenever the 
COG of the vehicle body (including the rider) is not on the top of the wheel axle, a compensating motor 
torque is generated to accelerate the wheel forward or backward to prevent the vehicle body from falling.  
This is how the Segway rider controls the motor torque (thus the vehicle motion) indirectly by leaning 
his/her body forward or backward. 
The conventional control systems are not suitable for the Legway application in three aspects.  Firstly, in 
Legway, the rider is in a sitting posture similar to riding a bicycle.  Therefore, it is neither convenient nor 
comfortable for him to lean his body frequently to maneuver the vehicle.  Furthermore, for a beginner who 
is likely unable to place his COG near the top of the wheel axle, when he first rides on the vehicle, adopting 
the conventional control systems may lead to sudden forward or backward acceleration which in turn causes 
rider’s panic or even accidents.  Finally, when pedaling Legway, the rider could involuntarily move his/her 
COG back and forth.  The controlled motor torque may interfere with the pedaling torque so that energy 
efficiency as well as the rider’s controllability over the vehicle may be affected. 
To resolve the three problems, a new balancing controller tailored to the operation of Legway is proposed. 
This balancing controller can automatically slew the uncertain COG of the vehicle frame plus the rider to a 
balancing posture and the motor torque settles to a constant, commanded value after the transience 
associated with the slewing dies out.  This commanded torque at steady state corresponds to the assistive 
motor torque set by the rider.  When it is set to zero, the rider feels minimum interference from the motor 
when he peddles the vehicle.  He also does not have to worry about the uncontrollable acceleration of the 
vehicle even if he has yet learned to properly place his COG when he first rides the vehicle. 
 
A. Control law 
Here we consider designing a controller that makes motor current/torque track a constant, commanded value 
and still stabilizes the vehicle body.  Because motor torque/current is an input in the system model in (2), we 
augment the current dynamics in (7) to the system model and add an integral state which corresponds to the 
integral of the error between the current and the command current.  
 The control law is designed in the form of a linear combination of absolute pitch angle, absolute pitch 
rate, motor current and integral of current error, and is written as the following equation. 
)xk(x dm −−=u         (8) 
where ][ 4321 kkkk=k  are the control gains of the controller, Tbbm dtii ]~[ ∫= θθ&x  are 
measurement data from sensors, Tdd i ]000[=x  is the command input, and diii −=~ is the error of 
                                                 
2 This is realized by either ignoring the current dynamics or using a high-gain current controller as the one in Section II.B  so that the reference current 
command can be viewed directly as the control input.  
 14
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎢
⎣
⎡
−=
−∞+−
++∞→
dik
R
gk
k
ik
i
t
dmp
d
t
4
))((
4
3
))((
0
)(lim
θφ
αλ
τγαx        (13) 
 This shows that if pedaling torque and motor command are both zero, the absolute angle of the COG of 
the vehicle body will converge to zero; otherwise the steady-state angle of the vehicle depends on the current 
command and the pedaling torque.  Furthermore, the first element in (13) shows that the motor current will 
converge to di , regardless of pedaling torque or angle differenceφ . If we let 0=di , then motor current thus 
the motor torque converges to zero, so the amount of motor torque that fight against the pedaling torque can 
be reduced to minimum in steady state.  
III. EXPERIMENTAL VERIFICATIONS 
Two experiments are conducted to verify the driving performance of Legway under closed-loop control: one 
is for the stationary cases, and another is for the driving cases. 
 
A. Stationary tests 
The first part of stationary test is to put a 5kg dumbbell onto the unicycle to change the COG location as a 
step disturbance, and do the test under the condition that 0== pdi τ . The result is shown in Fig. 6. It shows 
that the motor current is maintained around zero regardless of the uncertain COG location.  
 
Fig. 6: System responses of the COG location variation to angle of vehicle frame, motor current, and vehicle 
speed. 
 
The first part of stationary test is to vary the rider’s posture as a step disturbance, and do the test under the 
condition that 0== pdi τ . The result is shown in Fig. 6. It shows that the motor current converges zero 
within 2 seconds regardless of the uncertain COG location.  
 16
 
Fig. 7: Different driving method test: manual pedaling and electrical throttle. 
Another experiment is set to compare the proposed method with the normal controller under using manual 
pedaling driving method.  The normal controller is a linear controller which can stabilize the system but 
doesn’t have adaptation capability. Fig. 8 shows the pitch angle responses, the motor current responses, and 
the speed responses for both tests. From Fig.8(a), we can see that when using the normal controller, the angle 
of vehicle frame varied with speed, while using propose method didn't. Moreover, Fig.8(b) presents that the 
proposed method can always maintain the motor current around zero, reduce the interference with pedaling 
torque. 
 
Fig. 8: Comparison between two type of balancing controller: Proposed method and the normal controller 
without adaptation capability 
 
IV. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, a pedaled, self-balanced, personal mobility vehicle is developed.  The vehicle is intended to be used in densely 
populated urban environments that one can integrate it with the public transportation system to increase the commuting range. In 
order to reduce the interference and provide a better human-machine interaction, a novel balancing controller with the adaptation 
capability is proposed. This balancing controller, when working together with a specially designed low-level BLDC driver, can 
adapt to the uncertain center of gravity of the vehicle frame plus the rider, and the amount of motor torque that fights against the 
pedaling torque can be reduced to minimum.  The control system is implemented and the performance is experimentally validated.  
Current research is focused on further improving the steering mechanism and control robustness.  
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究的目的是想利用各關節致動器的控制來仿效人類的行走。人類的行走比
較像是一種自然反應。在有往前行進的速度下人類的行走是要維持身體的平
衡，因為身體有往前的動態，所以後腳必須往前踏才不會跌倒，形成了一種動
態平衡，這個概念與 Segway 的前進原理相同。因此在本研究中，我們希望利用
Segway 的原始想法來完成雙足機器人的行走，期望機器人的行走動態與人類的
行走動態更為相似；藉由與人相似的親和力，未來可利用在醫療服務或是休閒
娛樂機器人等。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
