 - 2 - 2
中文摘要 
 
顆粒材料為宏觀粒子之群聚。由於不連續的顆粒描述方法需要大量之計算，且需
要採取適當之平均而得到整體宏觀物理量之描述，因此連續體描述法乃為另一有效之分
析工具。然而傳統的連續體力學無法提供顆粒材料內部描述複雜顆粒群運動的訊息，因
此本研究之目的是針對此單一組成、單相分散之乾性顆粒材料之行為進行下列兩個課題
的探討--顆粒材料如何在連續體的架構下進行描述以及顆粒材料之振動床實驗。 
本研究將採取不同於其他研究學者之方法，我們由基礎之微連續體的定義著手，
擴展 Eringen 的思維，將微形連續場依據旋轉、剪切與膨脹三大類進行分解，進而簡化
微連續體成七種模型。我們相信其中的微膨脹連續體模型將可對應於顆粒材料的
Goodman-Cowin 理論，而其他類型之模型亦要深入討論，其相關之熱力學分析亦為探討
之課題。此外，顆粒床振動實驗中，我們要進行顆粒追隨現象的深入探討，其中探討不
同種類之顆粒、準二維或三維條件之檢驗、三種大小不同顆粒之課題為本研究之重點。
除以上理論與實驗分析外，我們將要使用分子動力學的方法，對於顆粒進行牛頓運動學
的數值模擬。 
 
關鍵詞：顆粒材料、微連續體、混合體、顆粒振盪 
 
Abstract 
 
A granular material is a set of macroscopic particles.  The discrete method requires a vast 
amount of numerical calculations and an appropriate averaging mean to find macroscopic 
physical quantities. On the contrary, the continuum method is an alternative, which provides an 
effective tool to analyze the motion of granular media. However, the traditional continuum 
mechanics is not sufficient to provide the detailed description of internal structure, 
characterizing the intricate relative motion among particles. This project focuses on the two 
important issues – the discussion of behavior of granular materials under the framework of 
continuum mechanics and the experimental work on the vibrating bed. 
We start from the microcontinuum field theory of Eringen and decompose a microcontinuum 
into seven continua according to the three-types of deformation — rotational, shearing, and 
dilatancy motions. It is believed that the micro-dilatation continuum model should be 
corresponding to the Goodman-Cowin theory. The thermodynamics analyses of these seven 
models will be thoroughly discussed. In addition, we will study the granular follower, specially 
on the topics of different types of particle, quasi-2d or 3D conditions, and tri-disperse particles 
condition. Accompanying with the theoretical and experimental analyses, the numerical 
approach of molecular dynamics will be performed to confirm the validity of our theory. 
 
 - 4 - 4
volume change of granular materials according to the change in arrangement of its discrete grains. 
Goodman and Cowin (1972) developed a continuum theory for these materials by viewing the 
solid volume fraction as an internal variable and introducing the balance equation of “equilibrated 
force" to account for changes in pore space. Under the framework of micromechanics, the 
macroscopic dilatancy rate of granular assemblies can be calculated in terms of contact quantities 
for different packings (Bashir and Goddard, 1991; Kruyt and Rothenburg, 2004). In addition to 
the dilatant degree of freedom, particle rotation is important when a granular assembly is 
subjected to shear forces. This necessitates the introduction of the rotational degree of freedom 
and leads to a vast number of studies on the micropolar continuum modeling of granular 
materials (Ehlers and Volk, 1998; Alshibli et al., 2006). Due to the fact that (i) the dilatant motion 
is caused by grain rearrangement, which in turn comes from grain slide or grain rotation, and (ii) 
even an applied shear force can induce a volume change for a granular material, a continuum 
theory without a description of both dilatant and rotational effects might not be a satisfactory tool 
to model the behavior of these materials.  
A previous study has shown that the Goodman-Cowin’s phenomenological theory for 
granular materials is closely related to the microdilatation continuum theory, in which only 
dilatant degree of freedom is taking into account (Chen and Lan, 2008). In order to include both 
dilatant and rotational effects at a macroscopic point, a more general microstretch continuum 
theory is employed in this study to analyze the response of granular assemblies. When using the 
microstretch theory to analyze the behavior of granular assemblies, a gyration radius, 
characterizing the size of an RVE, plays the role of bulk microinertia density as an independent 
field variable. Accounting for the replacements of the mass density and bulk microinertia density 
by the solid volume fraction and the gyration radius, this study transforms the set of balance 
equations into a new set of evolution equations, expressed in terms of the solid volume fraction, 
the gyration radius, the velocity field, the averaged angular velocity, the rate of gyration radius, 
and the internal energy. In this modeling, the time rate of change of gyration radius divided by 
this radius and the rotational part of the microgyration tensor sufficiently delineate the local rates 
of change in volume and rotation. These two quantities are evaluated and used as indices to 
analyze the time evolution of shear band (Rowe, 1962) in the subsequent numerical study of 
biaxial compression tests.  
In the past, many studies have been dedicated to various shear band issues due to their 
importance in the stability of granular materials. These results agree on the conclusions that (i) 
the void ratio inside the shear band is greater than the maximum global void ratio (Oda et al., 
1998; Alshibli and Sture, 1999); (ii) the significant particle rolling inside the shear band is 
observed (Oda and Iwahita, 1999); (iii) the shear band thickness is found to be of the order of 
only several particle diameters (Mühlhaus and Vardoulakis, 1987; Ehlers et al., 2003); and (iv) 
the shear band inclination is closely related to the confining pressure and mean particle size (Han 
and Drescher, 1993). Because the microstretch modeling approach in this study places the dilatant 
and rotational degrees of freedom on the same footing, it is able to investigate the localization 
features of the shear band simultaneously using the two indices mentioned above. Our analysis 
obtains the discrete formulation of the two indices, numerically compares their evolutions, and 
 - 6 - 6
   
Balance laws Corresponding field equations  
Mass  0ψ ψ+ ∇⋅ =v    
Microinertia  1
3 0R R− ∇⋅ =v   
Linear momentum  Tγψ τ γψ= ∇⋅ +v f    
Angular momentum  A A A Rγψ γψ τ= +∇⋅ +η l m e   
Bulk momentum moment ( ) 0R g fγψ + − −∇⋅ =h    
Energy  1 1
2 2( )
T A A AU gR Rγψ τ ν ν γψ= ∇ − ⋅ + ∇ − + ⋅∇v e m h     
 
This six fundamental balance laws are expressed by the time evolution equations of the six 
field quantities ( )AR R Uψ , , , , ,v η  . In these equations ( )A f, ,f l  are external sources, and 
( )Agτ , , ,h m  can be determined by the constitutive relations: ˆ1 ˆ KLUij iK jLCF rτ γψχ− ∂∂= , ˆKUi iKRh Fγψ γ∂∂= , 
ˆ22 3U k kCgR h Rγψ γψχ τ∂ ,∂= − − , and ˆ( )ALKA Uij iK jLm F rγρ ∂∂= . The internal energy equation manifests 
that ( )T A gτ γψ, ,− ,m h  can be viewed as the four generalized forces corresponding to the four 
generalized velocities ( ( )A A R Rν ν∇ − ⋅ ,∇ , ,∇v e   ). 
 
(B) Discrete formulation of the microstretch field quantities for DEM simulation: 
 When microstretch modeling is applied to the simulated granular system, the discrete 
formulations of the bulk microinertia density i  and the averaged angular velocity Aη  can be 
expressed as 
 
( )
2( )
( )
1
3 k
k
B
kS
i dV
M
ρ′ ′Δ= ,Δ ∑ ∫ ξ   
 ( )( ) ( )( )
( )
1
k
kA k
B
kS
dV
M
ρ′ ′Δ= × ,Δ ∑ ∫η ξ ξ   
which are obtained by taking the summation of the related quantities over all composite particles 
in the macroelement. Here, ( )kBΔ  and (k)ξ  denote the domain of the k -th composite particle 
in the macroelement, and the position vector measured from the macroelement’s COM to an 
MME with volume dV ′  in the composite particle. Recalling that an MME represents a 
microscopic mass element in a macroelement. By introducing the geometric relation 
( ) ( ) ( )k k kξ ζ= +r , where ( )kr  and ( )kζ  are respectively the two position vectors measured from 
the macroelement’s COM to the k -th composite particle’s COM and from the k -th composite 
particle’s COM to an MME, the above equations become  
 
2( ) ( ) ( )
( )
1
3
k k k
kS
i m I
M
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
= Δ + ,Δ ∑ r   
 ( )( )( ) ( ) ( )( )
( )
1 kA k k kk
kS
m
M
= Δ × + × .Δ ∑η r ζ ζr    
Here ( )kmΔ  and ( )kI  are the mass of the k -th composite particle and the second moment of 
 - 8 - 8
being significantly generated near the shear bands. 
(2) Evolution of the microgyration fields recorded along a vertical line.  
 
This study also records the evolutions of the ν∗  and Azν∗  fields at the points on the lines AA′  
in the process of axial compression. For the condition of 200c kpaτ = , Figs. 7(a) and 7(b) show 
that both of the ν∗  and Azν∗  fields deviate from their zeros at points near the shear band as the 
axial strain increases. In other word, a stronger dilatant motion and a stronger rotational motion 
can be observed near the band. Note that the field intensities are distinguished by the gray levels 
of the monochrome image. This figure also shows that the two time-rate field quantities, ν∗  and 
A
zν∗ , both of which clearly deviated from zero at 0 6 0 7y H/ = . .∼ , are effective probes to 
identify the shear-band location. 
 
Part II: Granular-gas related issues 
 
The main result of this part contains: 
(A) Oscillation mechanism of compartmentalized granular gases: 
This study adopts the idea of granular temperature derivation by the Twnete group but do 
not follow the energy equipartition assumption. Instead, I introduce the relation l hT Tγ=  into the 
analysis of flux function proposed by the Twnete group, in which two species of particles share a 
common granular temperature. By doing so, we are able to extend the flux function to 
( , ) /( , ) e
2
l hT T m gh Tm gbHNF N N
T
α αα αα α β
απ
−= Ω  
The temperature hT  can be determined by taking an approximation that the rate of energy input 
from the vibrating bottom, called 0J , is equal to the rate of energy loss through particle-particle 
collisions, termed Q. In view of different temperatures of the two species, 0J  and Q can be 
obtained as 
 - 10 - 10
compartments is able to drive the flow of HPs (LPs), but the LP flow in the L1-stage is not driven 
by the temperature difference. The flux-model analysis exhibits that in the L1-stage LPs move 
from a zone with a higher LPs number to another zone with a lower LPs number, which supports 
the mechanism that the particle-number difference has the power to drive LPs to flow in the 
L1-stage. 
(2) HPs have a higher granular temperature than LPs. Our analysis also shows that the 
magnitude of granular temperature for each species in a specific zone obeys the following two 
rules. First, the granular temperature increases for every decrease in particle number. Second, the 
granular temperature of HPs (LPs) in one zone is strongly influenced by the presence of LPs 
(HPs). This latter rule is based on observations that (i) the kinetic energy of HPs is significantly 
dissipated when they flow from one zone to another zone with a large number of LPs, and (ii) the 
kinetic energy of LPs is increased by colliding with HPs. These observations also support the 
concept of the expeller-trapper model, in which HPs (LPs) act as expellers. 
(3) There may be a threshold temperature for heavier particles, who gain sufficient energy 
to jump over the barrier if their granular temperature exceeds this threshold. 
(4) The experimental data shows that the difference in the granular temperatures of LPs in 
Zones I and II changes sign at the intersection between the L1- and L2-stages, at which point the 
numbers of LPs in the two zones are almost identical. 
 
(B) Clustering and phases of two-compartmentalized granular gases: 
This study has conducted a series of experiments on the phase transition of 
compartmentalized granular gases. By accounting for the balance of input energy and dissipation 
energy in granular-gas state, we obtain the information of condensation granular temperature of 
monodisperse gases at the gas-clustering transition from the experimentally measured relation 
between the critical particle number and input acceleration. 
For the M+I1 gases, an interesting result is yielded that there is an approximately linear 
relation between the change in condensation temperature and the mass ratio of the intruding and 
background particles. The experimental data in this study identifies the proportional parameter 
K_c and the threshold mass ratio, the latter of which depends on the choice of background 
particles. This study manifests that the macroscopic responses of a monodisperse granular gas 
could be significantly different from those of the same gas with only one intruding particle added. 
Moreover, the experimental phase diagrams of bidisperse granular mixtures in the space of 
numbers for heavier and lighter particles are constructed. These diagrams, illustrating the 
clustering line for LPs and the ranges of the five possible states, namely, HS, US, OS, GS, and TS, 
manifest the necessary requirements for generating the granular oscillation. 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
NSC 97-2221-E-002-126 
報告人：陳國慶 
 
2009年海峽兩岸工程力學研討會於 8月 17日至 23日在中國大陸四川重慶與成
都舉行。此會議有 50多位海峽兩岸工程力學學者參與並發表論文，台灣方面代表團
20多人由台灣大學工學院院長葛煥章教授擔任團長。 
會議第一天(8/17)，台灣學者於早上 8點多在中正機場集合，搭 10點多班機至
香港，下午再轉機至重慶，一整天就這樣過了一大半。抵重慶後，由重慶大學人員
接待至重慶科苑大酒店晚宴與休息。 
重慶是中國內陸的一個城市，放眼望去，30多層的高樓林立，真難想像這是一
個我們台灣人認為不太進步的共產社會的內陸城市。我去過許多中國沿海城市，知
道中國的快速進展，但內陸城市發展的速度也相當驚人，行政效率相當快，唉，我
身為一個台灣人，真是為台灣的未來感到憂心與無奈。 
第二天一整天都在進行學術講演，這是辛苦的一天，也是相當有收穫的一天(團
體照如下圖所示)。最令我感到興趣與新奇的報告是由北京清華大學力學系趙紅平教
授所報告的課題─家蠶蠶繭的力學性能與微觀結構研究。對我而言，這演講的重點
不在於做的方法與結果，而是在於所選取課題的方向。我注意到，中國這幾年在學
術上有相當的進步，這絕對不僅只表現在論文的數量上，而是出現在許多課題選取
的獨特性與獨創性上。由這蠶繭的研究講演上，我們知道了一隻蠶有能力可以吐出
10多個繭，蠶絲不同於蜘蛛絲而俱有強烈的不均勻性，即蠶絲的強度在時間序列上
是不同的。此外，幼蠶的蠶絲俱有最強的拉力強度，因為幼蠶的蠶絲是所謂的保命
絲。 
第三、四天進行參訪的活動，我們參訪了四川大學、黃山蔣介石官邸、三峽博
物館與大足石刻，充分瞭解與見識到當地風土民情與許多歷史的真跡以及過去人物
努力之奮鬥史。與當地學者閒聊過程中，得知重慶市政府為杜絕酒後駕車，因此喝
酒駕駛一經欄下就先關起來「失蹤 15天」，此措施使得人民跟本不敢酒後駕車。這
措施在台灣就不可能實行，侵害人權的事誰敢做？第四天傍晚我們抵達成都。 
第五天於四川大學進行了一整天的演講報告。本人於排定時間接近中午進行報
告，報告時間 15分鐘，報告題目為二元二格顆粒振盪機制。我說明了在顆粒振盪的
半週期中，可以依不同種類顆粒運動而區分為三個階段，即 L1、L2與 H階段。我
介紹了顆粒追蹤技術來量測顆粒速度，並可進而求得在每一個間格內之不同類顆粒
