AN AUTOMATIC SYNCHRONIZATION SYSTEM FOR THE 
MEDICAL RULES BASED ON SEMANTIC WEB TECHNIQUES: 
EXAMPLE BY USING NHI DRUGS RULES AND CLINICAL 
DRUGS ORDER CHECKING SYSTEM 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
An automatic synchronization system for medical rules based on semantic web 
techniques is proposed in this paper. The design concept is to use OWL as the 
knowledge model. A drug rule is viewed as a class of medical status to represent the 
medical rules knowledge, and then the classification is applied to decide the legality 
of drug use. This approach simplifies the design of inference engine. The OWL 
supports the syntax of class inherences, so it can reach the cognitive economy and 
shorten the encoding length of medical rules. The OWL syntax can represent most 
medical rules style, so the automatic synchronization system can just use one 
document and one inference engine to handle all medical rules. The OWL simplifies 
the design of medical rules of National Health Insurance (NHI) automatically 
synchronize to the hospital information systems. Therefore, the doctor order system 
rapidly reflects the change of medical rules. The system has the following two 
advantages: For the hospitals, it reduces the cost of updating the hospital 
information systems for obtaining the newest medical rules. For medical 
administrations, it reduces the cost of enforcing its medical rules to all hospitals’ 
information systems. In addition, the system can reduce the waste of medical 
resource and increase the patient’s security. 
 
Keywords 
Semantic Web, Synchronization System, Intelligent Agent, Hospital Information 
System 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
After the implementation of National Health Insurance (NHI), the medical resources 
abuse has become a serious issue. To control the medical resources abuse for the Bureau 
of NHI, it formulates the rules as well as restrains the medical services provided by 
medical associations. For example, the Bureau of NHI from 1995/10/01 does not pay the 
popular name: ant acids medication for ant dyspeptic (Wei, 2005). This forces the 
hospital to instruct doctors while they prescribe the medicine at the same time have to 
consider the health insurance rules, it controls doctors not to prescribe too many, 
otherwise it causes very big losses to the hospital. As a medical doctor, its inherent 
responsibilities should concentrate in the diagnosing and treating process, not in 
accountant behavior. When doctors prescribe the medicine, they need a good diagnosing 
and treating system to provide the rule information as an auxiliary assistance to help them 
concentrate on its diagnosing and treating behavior. 
Figure 1 describes the artificial sequence for renewing medical rules from the Bureau of 
NHI to the hospital information systems. When Bureau of NHI changes drugs rules, it 
transmits to each coherent unit by the archives to announce the renewed command. After 
Classical picture's rule deduction system regards the rules concept as a group of essential 
and sufficient condition set; its deduction process is based on the rule warehouse. The 
sufficient condition applies the front chain rule and the essential condition applies the rear 
chain rule for implementation. The advantage for classical picture is that its deduction 
machine easier to implement, and the deduction result is quite easy to forecast. Its 
shortcoming is the rules knowledge must be explicitly input to knowledge library and it is 
not easy to expand knowledge library; therefore, the system is not easy to study new 
knowledge, and is unable to make the deduction to those complex cases. 
The probability model's rules deduction system assumes that the rules is classified based 
on the attribute’s value. Each attribute have been assigned to a weight to express how 
close the probability it comes to a standard rules case. Its deduction system is based on 
the quadrant analysis (dimensional analysis). The merit is that it can apply in a more 
complex case, but it is more difficult for implementation. 
The precedent case model's rules are defined by a group of precedent cases, the rules 
classification is based on the closest precedent case. Its deduction system will develop a 
precedent foundation system; to compare the present with precedent case as an example 
for rules classification. Its biggest merit is the knowledge library easy to study new 
knowledge, and also can easily apply in the complex case, but the shortcoming is hard to 
implement. 
Taiwan’s legal framework primarily based on written law and the drugs rules is quite 
clear, it is suitable for the classical model to implement rules deduction system, therefore, 
this study’s rules deduction module is mainly implemented by the classical model. 
 
2.2 Drugs rules control system 
At present, Taiwan’s main application of drugs rules control system is in the medication 
prompt as a warning signal, when doctor prescribes the medicine it triggers; system 
provides doctor with prescribing knowledge related to the medicine immediately, it 
promotes the medication security. Li’s (Li, 2001) Web-based medicine system constructs 
basic medication warning functions; except provides the sole drugs control, some systems 
control entire prescription group, compare to the correlation medicine, and will prompt 
the warning signal to doctor (You, 2004; Lai, 2003). 
Above studies, its rules' warehouse implementation is based on the traditional relational 
model, because rules’ concept correlated with each other, and the connection type model 
is unable to express the concept correlation directly, if wants to use the table to express 
rules concept, then the correlation among concepts can indicate only using the table 
foreign key relations, it cannot directly use its definition to correlated with other 
concept’s definition. This causes the designer of the rules warehouse must design the 
control rule entity relationship model before transforming the relational model. 
The rules often has generalized and the specialized hierarchical stratum relations, if “car” 
compares “taxi” is more generalized, because each “taxi” is certainly “car”, but each 
“car” not necessarily is “taxi”. Above may also say that “taxi” this concept compares with 
“car” is more specialized. Because the relational type of model is flat, it is unable to 
express the hierarchical stratum information directly. It must therefore use a group of 
information table to implement its hierarchical stratum-like concept, it causes the rules 
hard to uniformize under different computer systems. The relational data type model is 
unable to do simple expression in rules library has shown in You’s (You, 2004) research. 
Web information, turns to a data type that the computer can understand as well as enables 
the network to understand the true meaning of human, could provides better and more 
convenient World Wide Web. The essence as well as characteristics of knowledge, 
descriptive logic and so on all in great progress makes the above dream come true.  
In the last few years, Semantic Web applies in the medical domain very broad, fast and 
effective. For instance, Thusitha (Thusitha & Jim, 2008) proposed Semantic Web 
technology to distinguish and trace patients with high blood pressure their medication 
situation. It establishes the knowledge body as well as strengthens the Web regular 
language (SQWRL) to inquire this main knowledge body effectively, and assures drugs 
result to the patient. Kim (Kim & Choi, 2007) proposed that by the lapse of time to record 
wave form electrocardiogram(ECG), this heart electrical activity examines heart disease 
system  mainly is based on ECG knowledge library's establishment and the use of 
semantic network technology to promotes the heart disease investigation inference effects. 
Moreover the semantic network technology in the medical information system aspect's 
application also very popular, such as: Hayashi (Hayashi et al., 2008) uses the semantic 
Web technology the development regarding the dementia sickness diagnosis method 
medical information management system. This system provides the medical file an 
automatically generates set of metadata to support the dynamic change; It designs 
RDFView as a semantic Web retrieval mechanism, and provides the network application 
procedure as edition entrance to establish the SPARQL dynamic model; It also designs a 
mechanism of display semantic network retrieves result method. In (Wang & Payam, 
2007; Lee & Payam, 2007) study, they provide the related medical image effective search 
and the retrieval using the semantic network's technology in the medical information 
management system. The main idea is to use main knowledge body as the foundation of 
expression and the semantic labeling medical image to provide the machine for effective 
retrieval. 
 
2.5 OWL 
This article thought that the most suitable system is in the W3C semantic web case, the 
OWL language makes the rule formalized method. The OWL language may support the 
complete predicate logic, simultaneously also depended on the computation order of 
complexity to define three edition OWL languages (Smith, 2004), respectively is: OWL 
Lite, OWL DL, OWL Full. 
This paper according to needs select OWL DL as the most suitable formalized language 
for health insurance rule implementation. 
 
3. THE MEDICAL RULES AUTOMATIC SYNCHRONIZATION SYSTEM 
 
3.1. Medical rules synchronization 
Figure 2 shows the sequence of the Medical Rules Automatic Synchronization system, 
MRAS proposed by the paper. To achieve the purpose of the medical rules 
synchronization, the four parts, the Bureau of NHI, MRAS, HIS and doctors, contained in 
the system must carry out the specific independent function respectively, and links by the 
public network. By the mechanism of decomposing and appointing functions to different 
units, the redundant rules control code of the hospital application, as well as health 
infer engine's efficiency. The hidden (implicit) rule means it has not been clearly appears 
in the original OWL model but the facts can be obtained by the inference rules defined in 
OWL model. 
 
 
Figure 3: Medical Rules Automatic Synchronization 
 
(1) OWL document: 
It is the machine storage form for the Health insurance rules. The OWL document 
can be easily compiled literally by program and expresses the meanings of the Health 
insurance rules. Because the documents are stored in regular file, they be easily rebuilt, 
exchanged and preserved in a non-volatile storage body, such as floppy disc, hard disk or 
magnetic tape and so on. They can also be transferred via FTP to exchange in the public 
network. 
    
(2) Jena function module: 
    Jena is a group of tools processing RDF and OWL semantic network technologies 
(McBride, B.). Therefore this system adopts the Jena function module as OWL document 
parse. 
 
(3) Inference engine module: 
The purpose of this module is to distinguish legitimate function of medication 
behavior. The module contains Required Attributes Agent (RAA) module, Case 
Classifier module and Numeric Attributes Classifier (NA Classifier) module. 
(2) APplication Server (APS): Between the elements is APS it operates in Ruby end, it 
simulates hospital application program system. MRAS and APS communicate using the 
MRAS protocol, therefore both have program library MRASP to implement the MRAS 
protocol. 
      TestWebSiteFiles is a simple WEB application program; it will apply the above 
inference function. This prototype does two inspections: the demand medical service state 
judgments, and the medication legitimacy verification, the inspection procedure will 
describe later. 
 
(3) Browser: Customer terminal use. It is for doctors or other practician of medical 
personnel and mainly uses the HTTP protocol and APS to communicate. 
     
    Because the Ruby language lacks of suitable OWL document parser, therefore 
MRAS uses the Java language to implement, and matches Jena OWL document parser, 
APS uses ruby programming language to implement. 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Rule Agent Implementing Deployment Chart 
 
4.2. The Establishment of Knowledge Ontology  
The knowledge ontology establishes mainly adopts protege, it is chart interface, easy to 
use, and supports many types of plug-in units, such as SPARQL plug-in unit may assist 
the SQPRQL inquiry instruction. According to the preceding knowledge ontology design, 
this study implement the health insurance rule to formalize OWL document, Figure 5 
shows the use of protege to establish knowledge ontology. 
 
 (2) System Benefit 
The nature of medical rules change frequently causes the rules control system has to 
consider the flexibility, i.e. the system must be able to make simple and fast response to 
rules change. At present the major medical information system its drugs control system's 
design, mainly uses the relational database, and records the condition parameter in tables 
needed by different rules, due to the recorded condition expression and processing logic 
are inconsistent, cause the system must create different rules composition for different 
inference engine. It also makes the system to compose many maintenance programs to 
maintain these parameter tables, to achieve system needed flexibility. 
This study proposed a method, to those operations violate rules, study try to simplify it as 
doctor transmits medical condition case, and inspect whether it belong to the legitimate 
medical condition category, therefore inference engine only need to implement the above 
case classification operation. When update the medical rule system just need to renew 
category definition information. This system adopts the OWL model, only need to 
implement the OWL model’s case classification operation. When rules change, just 
changes the category relations statement OWL files will be O.K., because rules change is 
packed into the OWL files, therefore the rules change have not involved inference engine. 
OWL or its equivalent logistic model already includes major hidden logic of drugs rules 
in its model category definition semantic, therefore study may use the above model to 
express all drugs rules. 
When data and the inference engine are completely separated, it is similar to system 
design of this article; it may easily divide each piece of work to different entity to take 
responsible. It is like the health insurance bureau only take responsibility on formulate 
pays stipulation and verify translation rules of OWL document to its semantics whether it 
is consistent with its formulated rules. The rules agent provides inference engine and 
rules renewal service for various hospitals. These work used to be hospital package, it 
makes the various hospitals information personnel enormous burden; to the health 
insurance bureau, the rules’ change needs very long time to promote, and need to go 
through the complex verification system, before the rules have implemented in each 
hospital. 
This system, except that it enables the health insurance bureau to carry out its rules policy 
as well as to manage the medical resources properly and effectively, also it enables the 
hospital to reduce the system's cost of information change. Furthermore, it promotes the 
government be able to implement electronic rules control to more wide range goal. 
 
ACKNOWLEGEMENT 
 
This research is supported in part by the National Science Council of Republic of China 
under the contract number NSC98-2221-E-218-028. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
Aho, A. V., Sethi, R., & Ullman, J. D. Compilers, principles, techniques, and tools, 
Addison-Wesley Pub. Co., 1986. 
會議心得 
南台科技大學 資訊管理系 張儀興 
 
    International Conference on Business And Information 2010(BAI 2010)在 7/5~7/7於
日本北九州小倉市(Kitakyushu)舉行，其主要目的是提供專家學者在商業及資訊領域
方面一個交流的場所。此會議共收錄來自包含澳洲、加拿大、中國、台灣、法國、德
國、香港、印度、日本、韓國、馬來西亞等等 28個國家共 471篇的論文，可見此會
議相當受研究學者重視且是一個能提供及吸收新研究方向及結果的一個好會議。 
 
    本人與此會議中發表文章，題目為” AN AUTOMATIC SYNCHRONIZATION 
SYSTEM FOR THE MEDICAL RULES BASED ON SEMANTIC WEB 
TECHNIQUES: EXAMPLE BY USING NHI DRUGS RULES AND CLINICAL 
DRUGS ORDER CHECKING SYSTEM” ，主要是導入語義網技術於法規檢核來實
現藥品檢核規則自動更新的功能。設計理念為以語意網的OWL 模型來實作法規檢核
系統，在法規的知識表徵上，系統將所有的藥品規則視為醫療狀態的類別，因此判別
用藥的合法性，便可使用分類運算達成，這簡化了推理機的設計；利用OWL 支援類
別繼承的語意，故能形成認知經濟性效應，縮小醫療法規機器編碼長度；最後OWL 的
語法能表示大部份規則型態，使得系統可以使用一個文件檔，一種推理機模型便能表
示所有的法規。OWL 簡化了健保給付規定自動化更新到醫院資訊系統的設計，讓醫
令系統成為更能即時反應健保法規的決策支援系統。對醫院而言，這大幅節省法規變
動時，資訊系統異動成本。其次，對醫事管理單位而言，則能以較少的成本，落實其
法規控管於醫療資訊系統上，對抑止醫療資源浪費，及提升病人安全是一大利器。 
 
    除了發表論文外，也聆聽了一些有關資訊安全、資訊技術應用及在會計財務上應
用的相關論文，皆相當不錯。故參與此會議，真是收穫良多。會議相關照片及說明如
下： 
 
圖1 在BAI2010會場跟台灣參加BAI同伴照相 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
發表一篇於 BAI2010conference 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
由於醫療法規的經常異動性質，使得法規檢核系統必須考慮彈性問題，亦即系統必須能夠
簡單快速的反應法規變動。現今目前大部份的醫療資訊系統其藥品檢核系統的設計，主要
是使用關連式資料庫，並以表格記載不同法規所需的條件參數，條件資料表示及處理邏輯
的不一致，造成必須為不同的法規撰寫不同的推理引擎，這是相當需要耗費大量的人力及
物力。 
本年度計畫所要開發的系統已經完成，經測試也達到當初計畫書的成果。主要設計理念為
以語意網的 OWL 模型來實作法規檢核系統，簡化了健保給付規定自動化更新到醫院資訊系
統的設計，讓醫令系統成為更能即時反應健保法規的決策支援系統。總之本系統，除了讓
健保局能確實有效地執行其法規政策以妥善管理醫療資源，也讓醫院也能減少其更動資訊
系統上的成本，進而能推動電子法規控管至更大範圍的電子化政府的目標。因此本計畫的
應用價值是非常高的。 
在學術發表方面，目前已經發表在 BAI2010 的研討會上發表一篇文章，本人目前積極的撰
寫文章，預計在年底投稿到相關 SCI/SSCI 的 Journal 並希望被接受刊登。 
 
