 1
中文摘要： 
 
 近年來，由於數位錄製設備如數位相機的流行，讓製作個人的數位媒體變得容易。但
是複製與散佈數位媒體的便利以及有效數位媒體保護機制的缺乏，卻也造成了使用未授權拷
貝的盛行。為了對付此問題，學者們提出了數位浮水印的技術來保護著作所有權。然而，此
項技術通常將某些圖案(稱為數位浮水印)嵌入至數位媒體中，以致無可避免的降低了數位媒
體的原始品質。此外，著作權的確認通常欠缺自動化的機制而僅是藉由肉眼來比較原來的浮
水印與取出的浮水印的方式來進行。因此，本研究針對上述的問題，發展能夠不破壞原有品
質並提供機器自動確認著作所有權的保護機制。 
 
本研究採用視覺密碼學之影像秘密分享的策略來避免破壞品質的問題，同時應用生物
特徵的指紋辨識技術來提供機器自動確認著作所有權的機制。由於生物辨識的技術利用個人
身體上的特徵來辨別個人的身份，所以此機制相當適合個人使用。本研究以指紋為主要的生
物特徵並以灰階影像做為被保護的對象。關於此機制的處理過程如下：利用視覺密碼學與被
保護影像的特徵，將個人的指紋影像一分為二，一為秘密分享影像，一為公開分享影像，並
將其中的秘密分享影像安全的保存。當要確認著作權時，抽取影像的特徵並產生公開分享影
像，接著與原來的秘密分享影像重組成原來的指紋。最後，利用指紋辨識將此重組的指紋與
宣稱的所有人的指紋比較來鑑定其著作所有權。 
 
本研究除了使用影像秘密分享機制外，另外利用指紋影像增強與改正技術來增進系統
的辨識效果，實驗的結果顯示此機制可承受多種影像處理的攻擊，而且在許多嚴苛的狀況下
接受率仍能達到 99%。總之，本研究應用了指紋辨識與影像秘密分享兩種技術來保護個人的數
位影像著作所有權，它的完成提供一種有效的方法以用來建立個人的數位媒體著作所有權的
保護機制。 
 
 
關鍵詞：著作權保護、數位浮水印、視覺密碼學、影像秘密分享、指紋辨識 
 
 3
附件：國際會議發表之論文， Third International Conference on Information 
Technology : New Generation, April 10-12, 2006, ISBN 0-7695-2497-4 
A Copyright Protection Scheme for Gray-Level Images Using Human Fingerprint 
Images as Watermarks 
 
Shang-Lin Hsieh, Hsuan-Chieh Huang, and I-Ju Tsai 
Computer Science and Engineering, Tatung University, Taiwan 
slhsieh@ttu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
This paper proposes a copyright protection scheme using 
enhanced fingerprint images as watermarks. The scheme 
includes the enhancement of fingerprint image and the 
generation of share image used to retrieve the fingerprint 
image. If an unauthorized copy is found later, the origin 
of the copy can be determined by the retrieved fingerprint 
image. Fingerprint image enhancement technique is 
employed prior to feature extraction to obtain a more 
reliable estimation of feature locations. In addition, the 
paper employs correction to reform the quality of the 
fingerprint image. According to the experimental results, 
the acceptance rate is up to 99% under several severe 
conditions. The experimental results also show that the 
scheme can tolerate several images processing attack on 
the host image. 
 
Keywords: copyright protection, discrete wavelet 
transform, fingerprint enhancement, secret sharing 
scheme, watermark. 
 
1. Introduction 
 
With the fast development of network multimedia 
distributions, there is an urgent need for copyright 
protection against piracy of digital data. In general, 
watermarking and fingerprinting are two feasible 
approaches to preventing piracy. Using watermarking for 
secret information hiding in a host document has received 
increasing attention [11]-[12]. Because watermarking 
embeds a watermark into the host image, it changes some 
pixels of the host image. Hence, the embedding procedure 
always reduces the quality of the digital image. On the 
contrary, fingerprinting is an approach to extracting a 
fingerprint from the image for later verification [13]. The 
fingerprint is a characteristic of the image and is used for 
identification. Because fingerprinting adds nothing to the 
digital media, it is suitable for unchangeable images such 
as medical images, satellite images, and so on.  
The secret sharing scheme has also been applied to 
protect the image copyright. The scheme produces several 
different shares according to the information of a private 
image, and gathers those shares to retrieve the private one 
[15]. The retrieved image can be recognized visually with 
the human eyes and requires no instruments or complex 
computations. Chang et al. [2] generated the share image 
as a signature from the suspect image in the spatial 
domain. However, the scheme fails when the quality of 
the retrieved watermark is poor. The author [1] generated 
the share image in the frequency domain and obtained a 
watermark with greater quality. However, it did not 
consider the geometrical distortions such as rotation and 
shifting. 
In this paper, we employ the fingerprint images as the 
watermark images in the copyright protection scheme. 
Using the fingerprint images has two advantages. First, 
personal fingerprint image is a unique character. It is the 
most reliable evidence for personal authentication among 
biometric information such as face, voiceprint, iris and so 
forth. Second, the fingerprint image can be identified 
automatically in the fingerprint identification system. It 
does not need the human eyes to verify. However, there 
may be noises or the intensity variation which may affect 
the detection of the features in the fingerprint image. The 
fingerprint image enhancement is therefore used to 
addresses the problems.  
In this paper, section 2 contains the steps of the 
fingerprint image enhancement, the observation on the 
discrete wavelet transform, and the description of the 
secret sharing scheme. Section 3 describes in details the 
steps of the proposed scheme. The experimental results 
and the conclusions are provided in section 4 and 
section 5. 
 
2. Related Background 
 
The proposed scheme uses the techniques of 
fingerprint image enhancement, discrete wavelet 
transform and secret sharing scheme. The following 
sections give a brief description about the techniques. 
 
2.1. Fingerprint Image Enhancement 
 
The proposed scheme uses the fingerprint images as 
watermarks. The structures such as the valleys and ridges 
 
Figure 5. The block diagram of the proposed scheme 
 
1)    Share image generation phase: first, the feature 
extraction extracts the features of the host image. 
Then, the scrambling disarranges the enhanced 
fingerprint image with a key. Finally, the 
encoding uses both of the features and the 
scrambled fingerprint image to generate the 
share image. The share image will then be used 
in the fingerprint image retrieval phase. 
2) Fingerprint image retrieval phase: first, the 
feature extraction extracts the features of the 
suspect image. Second, the decoding uses both 
of the features and the share image to retrieve 
the scrambled fingerprint image. Next, the 
unscrambling rearranges the enhanced 
fingerprint image with the key. Then, the 
correction and the reduction are used to remove 
noise of the unscrambled fingerprint image. 
Finally, the enhancement improves the 
fingerprint image. The retrieved fingerprint 
image is then used to verify the copyright. 
 
3.1. The Major Parts in the Proposed Scheme 
 
The proposed scheme contains seven major parts. The 
following sections describe their purpose in details. 
 
3.1.1. Enhancement. The fingerprint image may contain 
noises. The enhancement process described in section 2.1 
is used to improve the quality of the fingerprint image. 
 
3.1.2. Scrambling & Unscrambling. In order to disperse 
the intensity of the attack, the scheme uses the Torus 
automorphism transform to scramble the enhanced 
fingerprint image. Similarly, it uses the inverse transform 
to unscramble the fingerprint image. A detailed 
description of the Torus automorphism transform can be 
found in the literature [4]. In this paper, the fingerprint 
image is divided into non-overlapping blocks first, and 
then scrambled five times with the transform function 
Figure 6 shows an example of the transform. 
 
 
Figure 6. The scrambled fingerprint image after five iterations 
 
3.1.3. Feature Extraction. The coefficients in LL2 are 
important and will not be dramatically changed by the 
image processing. Hence, after the host image is divided 
into non-overlapping blocks of size 8 × 8 and then 
transformed by the two-level DWT, the four coefficients 
in each block of LL2 are used as features. 
 
3.1.4. Encoding. After the feature extraction, the binary 
bits sequence b of the fingerprint image produces the 
feature block and the share block. The share block is then 
used to produce the share image. This relationship is 
expressed as follows: 
 
{
,, , , i=
, , , ,i=Mif C, otherwise,
otherwise
blackisbif
whiteisbandCCCCif
FB
FB
SB
 FB
,  
+ C+ C+ CC
= M
i
i
i
i
i
3210
,3210
0
1
,
)()(
,
,
,1
4
3210
4mod)1(
3210
===



=
=
+
≥
                 (1) 
where M is the mean value of all LL2 coefficients (C0, C1, 
C2 and C3), i is the number of the location in each block 
(see Figure 7), FB is the feature block, and SB is the share 
block. Equation (1) is used to produce fifteen states. 
 7
 
Figure 8. (a) The reduced image without the correction; (b) the 
reduced image with the correction. 
 
3.2. Share Image Generation Phase 
 
The following lists the detailed steps in the proposed 
share image generation algorithm. 
Share Image Generation Algorithm 
Input: a gray-level host image h (N1 × N2), a gray-level 
fingerprint image f (M1 × M2), and a secret key. 
Output: a share image s that can be used to retrieve the 
fingerprint image. 
Step1. Divide the host image h into non-overlapping 
blocks of size 8 × 8 h(k), k=1, 2…, N1 / 8  × N2 / 8. 
Step2. Enhance the fingerprint image f and obtain the 
binary enhanced fingerprint image f'. 
Step3. Divide the image f' into non-overlapping blocks of 
size (N1 / 8) × (N2 / 8) f'' (p), p=1, 2…, (M1 / N1 × 
8) × (M2 / N2 × 8). 
Step4. Set p to be 1. 
Step4.1. Use Torus automorphism and the secret key 
to scramble the block f'' (p) into binary bits 
sequence b(k), k=1, 2..., (N1 / 8) ×(N2 / 8). 
Step4.2. Set k to be 1. 
Step4.2.1. Transform the host image block h(k) 
and obtain four coefficients of LL2 
by two-level DWT. 
Step4.2.2. According to Eq. (1), use the four 
LL2 coefficients and b(k) to find out 
the block SB(k) of the share image s. 
Step4.3. Increase k by 1. If k ≦ (N1 × 8) × (N2 × 8) 
go to Step4.2.1.. 
Step5. Increase p by 1. If p ≦  (M1 / N1 × 8) × 
(M2 / N2 × 8) go to Step4.1.. 
Step6. Save the secret key and the share image s for the 
decoding. 
 
3.3. Fingerprint Image Retrieval Phase 
 
The following lists the detailed steps in the proposed 
fingerprint image retrieval algorithm. 
Fingerprint Image Retrieval Algorithm 
Input: a gray-level suspect image g(N1 × N2), a share 
image s(S1  ×  S2 ), and a secret key. 
Output: the enhanced fingerprint image. 
Step1. Divide the suspect image g into non-overlapping 
blocks of size 8 × 8 g'(k), k=1, 2..., N1 / 8 × N2 / 8. 
Step2. Divide the share image s into non-overlapping 
blocks of size (N1 / 4) × (N2 / 4), s'(p), p=1, 2..., 
(S1 / N1 × 4) × (S2 / N2 × 4). 
Step3. Set p to be 1.  
Step3.1. Divide the share image block s’ into non-
overlapping blocks of size 2 × 2 SB(k), k=1, 
2..., N1 / 8 × N2 / 8.  
Step3.2. Set k to be 1. 
Step3.2.1. Transform the g'(k) and obtain four 
coefficients of LL2 by two-level 
DWT. 
Step3.2.2. According to Eq. (1), use the four 
LL2 coefficients and their mean 
value to find out the feature block 
FB(k). 
Step3.2.3. Apply XOR operation on the FB(k) 
and the corresponding SB(k) to 
produce the scrambled fingerprint 
image block f'(k). 
Step3.3. Increase k by 1. If k ≦ (N1 / 8) × (N2 / 8) go 
to Step3.2.1.. 
Step3.4. Use Torus automorphism and the secret key 
to rearrange the fingerprint image f' into the 
unscrambled fingerprint image f''. 
Step3.5. Apply (2) on the unscrambled fingerprint 
image block f'' to produce the corrected 
fingerprint image block fc. 
Step3.6. Use the reduction to reduce the corrected 
fingerprint image fc into the reduced 
watermark fR. 
Step4. Increase p by 1. If p ≦ (S1 / N1 × 4) × (S2 / N2 × 4) 
go to Step3.1.. 
Step5. Enhance the retrieval fingerprint image. 
 
4. Experimental Results 
 
Three experiments were conducted to show the 
effectiveness of the proposed scheme. The first 
experiment shows the advantage of the correction. The 
usefulness of the fingerprint image enhancement and the 
unique identification are shown in the second experiment 
and the third experiment, respectively. Figure 9(a) is the 
256 gray-level host image “Lena” in the experiment. 
Figure 9(b) is the fingerprint image. Figure 10 shows the 
enhancement results. Figure 10(e) is the binary 
fingerprint image used as the watermark. We used image 
 9
rates. Therefore, the enhanced fingerprint image can be 
identified. The experiment shows that our scheme is 
robust to various hostile attacks. 
 
Table 3. The fingerprint image with the enhancement 
 
 
Table 4 lists the result of fingerprint identification with 
and without the enhancement using BIOBIO [14] 
fingerprint image identification system. The result shows 
that the number of acceptance with the enhancement is 
greater than that without the enhancement. Moreover, we 
can see that when the value of the accuracy rate is higher 
than 0.8, the fingerprint image can be accepted by the 
identification system. 
 
Table 4. Comparison in BIOBIO [14] fingerprint image 
identification system. “O” and “X” are denoted the acceptation 
and the rejection, respectively 
 
 
4.3. Unique Identification 
 
The signature of each image should be different. It 
should be easy to distinguish a copyrighted image from a 
completely different one. The retrieved fingerprint image 
from an image different from the original one should 
contain nothing more than noise. Otherwise, the different 
image would be mistaken for the original one. The last 
experiment shows that the proposed scheme has the 
ability of unique identification. Figure 11(a), and (b) are 
two different images from the original one; Figure 11(c), 
and (d) are the retrieved fingerprint images that contain 
nothing more than noise. Moreover, no structures of the 
fingerprint image can be detected from the images and 
they are rejected by the BIOBIO fingerprint image 
identification system. The results demonstrate the ability 
of unique identification in the proposed scheme. 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 94-2213-E-036-016 
計畫名稱 以生物辨識與視覺密碼學為基礎的著作所有權保護機制之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
謝尚琳 大同大學資訊系助理教授 
會議時間地點 95 年 4 月 10 日至 95 年 4 月 12 日 美國、拉斯維加斯 
會議名稱 Third International Conference on Information Technology : New Generations  - ITNG2006 
發表論文題目 A Copyright Protection Scheme for Gray-Level Images Using Human Fingerprint Images as Watermarks 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
本人於四月十日早上搭乘飛機前往會議地點, 由於經過換日線的關係, 到達當地仍為四月
十日的下午, 隔日即開始三天會議的行程. 底下簡單敘述當地的交通與住宿情形. 
前往拉斯維加斯並沒有直達航班,須先飛行到舊金山機場,再轉機到拉斯維加斯機場.從拉
斯維加斯機場到市區可搭 shuttle bus,費用為美金五元,若是搭乘計程車,含小費為 US$15. 
旅館內有無線網路,但需付費使用,一天的費用為美金十元. 旅館內並不提供開水也沒有
熱水瓶,電壓與台灣相同,也不需使用轉換插頭便能使用從台灣帶去的電器.當地為沙漠地區,
幾乎不會下雨,天氣非常乾燥,四月的氣溫約在 25 至 30 度之間,著短袖衣裳即可. 
 
二、與會心得 
 
此次會議涵蓋許多研究領域,包括軟體工程,嵌入式密碼系統,網頁技術,網際網路與無線
安全,資訊安全與隱私,資料探勘,網路語音訊號處理等等 超過一百多篇的論文發表,我的論文
屬於資訊安全與隱私這個領域.由於此次我的碩士班研究生志願自費隨同參加,出國前他已對
我做過多次的英文報告練習,因此便由他上台報告,對於別人提出來的問題除了由他回答外,我
也適時的補充答覆,尤其是我們論文中提出利用人類指紋作為浮水印, 與傳統的使用 logo 的
方式不同, 引起別人的注意, 而有一番答辯, 綜觀整個報告過程算是相當順利.另外, 這篇論
文的量已足夠投稿至期刊,因此對於質的部分再予以加強改進後,將投稿至國際期刊發表.
(Figure 1) of a fingerprint image may be corrupted by 
various kinds of noise or the intensity variation. 
 
 
Figure 1. The structures of a fingerprint image (the valleys and 
ridges) 
 
In order to enhance the fingerprint image, filtering is 
applied. Many kinds of fingerprint image enhancement 
schemes have been proposed in the literatures [5]–[9]. 
According to these literatures, the following five steps of 
the fingerprint image enhancement scheme are adopted: 
1) Use the normalization transformation to remove 
the effects of the sensor noise or finger pressure 
difference. 
2) Judge the orientation of the fingerprint image for 
the following Gabor filter transformation.  
3) Adopt the Gabor filter based on the orientation 
and the frequency to strengthen the fingerprint 
image structure. 
4) Choose the histogram equalization to strengthen 
the fingerprint image structure and hence 
improve the features of the image. 
5) Perform the binarization for the fingerprint to 
produce a binary image. 
 
The entire process of the fingerprint image 
enhancement is illustrated in Figure 2.  
 
 
 
Figure 2. The block diagram of fingerprint image enhancement 
 
2.2. Discrete Wavelet Transform 
 
The proposed scheme generates features from the 
discrete wavelet transform (DWT) coefficients. The Haar 
wavelet transform is one kind of DWT. Figure 3 shows an 
example of two-level decomposition. First, the transform 
decomposes the original image into four sub-bands LL1, 
LH1, HL1, and HH1. Then, it decomposes the LL1 
sub-band into four sub-bands LL2, LH2, HL2, and HH2. 
Hence, there are seven sub-bands after the two-level 
decomposition. 
Because the human eyes are sensitive to the changed 
pixels in the low frequency band, image processing 
attacks usually alter the pixels in the high frequency band. 
The change of the coefficient in LL2 is slighter than those 
in the other sub-bands after malicious attacks. Hence, the 
proposed scheme generates features from the coefficients 
in the LL2 sub-band. 
 
 
Figure 3. Two-level DWT decomposition of Lena 
 
2.3. Secret Sharing Scheme 
 
The proposed scheme applies the secret sharing 
scheme to protect the image copyright. The (k, n) secret 
sharing scheme splits an image into n different shares, and 
gathers more than k (k  ≦ n) shares to retrieve the image 
[15]. The size of the retrieved image is expanded because 
each pixel is mapped into a block consisting of several 
sub-pixels. The step is called pixel-expansion. Figure 4 
shows an example of the secret sharing scheme. 
Figure 4(a) is the original image. Figure 4(b) and (c) are 
the share images which are produced from the original 
one. Figure 4(d) shows that the retrieved image contains 
the information which can be recognized visually with the 
human eyes.  
 
 
Figure 4. An example of the secret sharing scheme; (a) the 
original image; (b), (c) the difference share images; (d) the 
retrieved image 
 
3. The Proposed Image Copyright Protection 
Scheme 
 
Figure 5 shows the block diagram of the proposed 
scheme. The scheme uses the fingerprint image as the 
watermark through two phases, share image generation 
and fingerprint image retrieval, to verify the host image 
copyright. The following describes the two phases.  
where M is the mean value of all LL2 coefficients (C0, C1, 
C2 and C3), i is the number of the location in each block 
(see Figure 7), FB is the feature block, and SB is the share 
block. Equation (1) is used to produce fifteen states. 
Table 1 shows seven of the states. (The black pixel and 
the white pixel are denoted as 0 and 1, respectively.) 
The relation between FB and SB is discussed as 
follows: 
1) If the fingerprint image pixel is white, FB will 
be rotated 90 degrees in a counterclockwise 
direction to obtain SB. However, when all 
coefficients of LL2 are the same, SB will be the 
complementation of FB. 
2) If the fingerprint image pixel is black, SB will be 
the same as FB. 
 
  
Figure 7. The numbering of the location i 
 
Table 1. The seven of the fifteen states 
 
 
3.1.5. Decoding. The decoding uses the logical XOR 
operation. The operation is performed on SB of the host 
image and FB of the suspect image to retrieve the 
scrambled fingerprint image. The scrambled fingerprint 
image is then processed by the unscrambling. 
 
3.1.6. Reduction. The reduction would effectively 
remove the redundant noise caused by the pixel-expansion. 
It adopts one of the following two rules: 
1) If the number of the white pixels in the 
generated block is equal to 1 or 0, the block is 
reduced to a black pixel. 
2) Otherwise, the block is reduced to a white pixel. 
3.1.7. Correction. The correction helps to make the 
reduction more accurate. The structuring element, which 
is a mask, is used in the correction. The value of each 
point in the structuring element is 0 or 1, which are 
denoted as the black pixel or the white pixel, respectively. 
The correction contains two components: 
1) Erosion: the purpose of a black pixel in a binary 
image is to gradually narrow down the 
boundaries of the region. It can be used to 
remove the islands smaller than the structuring 
element. If the value of each point in the 
structuring element is consistent with the block 
of the image, the result will be set to a black 
pixel, otherwise it will be set to a white pixel. 
Set B is referred to as the structuring element. 
BA⊙  represents the erosion of each pixel in an 
image A by B. 
2)  Dilation: the purpose of a black pixel in a binary 
image is to gradually enlarge the boundaries of 
the region. It can be used to remove bright 
details from an image. If the image pixel is black, 
the value of each point in the structuring element 
will be added to the result using the "NOR" 
operator. BA⊕  represents the dilation of an 
image A by structuring element B. 
In this paper, the correction is the erosion of an 
unreduced image A by B, followed by two times dilation 
of the result by B, followed by the erosion of the result by 
B. The correction is defined as follows:  
 
,⊙B⊕⊕⊙
,
00
00
BBBACI
B
=


=                                          (2) 
 
where CI is the corrected image. Figure 8 shows the 
procedure of the correction, where AR is the accuracy rate 
used to measure the similarity between the original 
fingerprint image and the retrieved one. AR is defined as 
follows: 
 
NP
CPAR = ,                                                                (3) 
 
where NP is the number of the pixels in the original 
fingerprint image. CP is the number of the correct pixels. 
Hence, the more closely the value of AR approaches 1, the 
more closely the retrieved fingerprint image resembles the 
original one. In Figure 8, R is the reduction rule, and the 
striped block represents the altered one. Figure 8(a) shows 
that there is still some fault after the reduction. Figure 8(b) 
shows that the result is more accurate with correction than 
without correction. 
software, Ulead PhotoImpact 8.0 trial version, to simulate 
different kinds of attacks. Moreover, the rotation attack is 
simulated by the Stirmark [10]. 
 
 
Figure 9. (a) The host image “Lena” (512×512); (b) the 
fingerprint image (256×256) 
 
 
Figure 10. The enhancement results; (a) the normalized image; 
(b) the orientation field; (c) the enhanced image with Gabor 
filter; (d) the contrasted image; (e) the binary image. 
 
4.1. Correction Experiment 
 
The first experiment shows that the accuracy rates with 
the correction are always higher than those without it. 
The accuracy rates and the difference values are listed in 
Table 2, which shows the correction does improve the 
accuracy and reliability of the image. However, the result 
shows that it is not enough to use DWT alone to rresist 
geometrical distortions. Although the correction removes 
lots of redundant noise, the corrected fingerprint image 
still preserves the structures of the fingerprint image. The 
structures can be improved by the fingerprint image 
enhancement. The next experiment will exhibit this 
advantage. 
 
Table 2. The comparison result 
 
 
4.2. Enhancement Experiment 
 
The second experiment shows that the retrieved 
enhanced fingerprint images are more recognizable than 
those without enhancement. Table 3 shows the accuracy 
rates and the value of the difference between the corrected 
fingerprint image and the enhanced one. Although the 
correction cannot resist the geometrical distortions, the 
fingerprint image enhancement improves the structure of 
the fingerprint image and hence accuracy rates. Therefore, 
