 2 
2 INTRODUCTION 
Taiwan is a densely populated island, thus, main roads and roads along tourist attractions are 
often highly congested during rush hours, weekends, and national holidays. The traffic 
conditions would waste road users’ time and affect the mood of relaxation during holidays. 
Navigation system is an indispensable tool for many road users. With the development of 
science and technology, the cost of the navigation system is reduced, and the system has 
become more prevalent in daily use. Compared to the embedded navigation system, portable 
navigation system can better meet users’ demands. Therefore, more and more manufacturers 
are engaged in the research and development of the navigation system. 
To enhance the competitiveness of the systems, manufacturers have introduced new targets and 
functions. For example, a navigation system can provide route planning based the users’ 
driving time, driving distance, driving comfort, congested roads, location of tolls, and 
alternative route. Therefore, the navigation system must acquire more precise data, provide 
real-time communication capability, precision in computing for the optimal route, and have a 
large database to record history data. 
All navigation systems available in the market need to acquire information before route 
planning. Although, the method is theoretically acceptable, sudden events may cause changes 
in road conditions, and the planned route is no longer optimal. For example, when an accident 
occurs in one section of the optimal route planned before departure, the passing efficiency of 
the section will be greatly reduced. Many navigation systems, which cannot provide timely 
modification, may still regard the section as a high-efficiency section, and guide the users to 
the section, thus further reducing passing efficiency of the section. Thus, a navigation system 
that does not have real-time information may make road conditions worse. 
As the navigation system has more functions, powerful hardware is needed; however, the 
mobile navigation system has its limitations. The general solution is to choose between 
computing time and accuracy of optimal route, i.e. to compute an approximate optimal result 
within the shortest time. This study intended to design a set of algorithms to compute the 
optimal solution for route planning within the minimum time. The route can be modified 
according to the changes in road conditions, thus avoiding worsening the road conditions. 
3 RELATED WORKS 
In order to address the above problems, previous researchers have proposed suggestions on 
data collection and algorithm improvement.  
In terms of data collection, the navigation system is divided into two types, namely centralized 
and autonomous. The former has a powerful information center, which is responsible for 
information collection, integration and distribution. With this information center, the mobile 
device requires less memory and computing capability. The latter device has its own database, 
and only collects useful information and stores the information in the mobile device. However, 
both of these methods cannot cover all real-time information, so the Prediction module is 
added to infer possible road conditions in the areas with insufficient information. 
In terms of algorithm improvement, distinct modifications are made according to different 
demands based on basic Dijkstra algorithm. The algorithms A* algorithm and bidirectional 
 4 
 
 
Fig.  1: Create a virtual short cut replace the original route. [2] 
 
 
Fig.  2: Each color represents a route. Select the shortest sub-path from each routes, which through node V, and choice the 
longest one as R(V). [2] 
 
 
Fig.  3: Hierarchical level map could reduce the complexity of a complicated map. The red lines represent the obstacle in 
this map, select all the endpoints of the red line as high level nodes. [1] 
 
 
Fig.  4: Infect the original route by the better route to increase its quality. [4] 
 
 
Fig.  5: Pick up the best selection by estimate the time of the chosen route will take. [5] 
 6 
useless. In order to avoid this situation, the history data only keep the unusual points, such as 
the place, time and driving speed in the points of congestion. Users in our system are 
participated the data generating when they consuming the service data from our data center. It 
is why we call it as a Web 2.0 like mechanism. This mechanism can avoid the kind of users 
who only want to consume data without providing their data. 
Although updated information can be obtained from users’ mobile device system and the 
traffic information center of national highways, the information may not cover the entire island, 
while no related services served provided online. Thus, the possible driving speed is deduced 
(as the weight of navigation) based on the road speed limit, as well as the traffic information of 
front and back sections of the road, and the history data. In Eqn. 3.1, we can calculate the 
weight of ever road section, and the V_est is represent as the estimated driving speed in the 
road section, and the calculation is as Eqn. 3.2. V_frontis the driving speed in the front section, 
V_back is the driving speed in the back road section, D_b is the distance from the estimation 
point to the back road section, D_f is the distance from the estimation point to the front road 
section, and D_fbis the distance between the front and back road sections. The method of 
interpolation is used to calculate the proportion of the two sections in the estimated value. The 
closer they are to this section, the more important they are. RoadHistory denotes the historical 
record in the previous time period in the database V_est. If any item is lack of data, RoadLimit 
of this section is used. Compare the attained value V_estand the RoadLimit, the smaller of 
which represents the driving speed in this section. 
    (Eqn.4.2) 
4.2 Dynamic Path Planning with Real-time Road Information 
In order to fasten our system computing, we choose the hierarchical algorithm for our path 
planning. For hierarchical path planning, all nodes are created on the map of each junction or 
intersection of two roads. Firstly, the junctions and intersections of all national and provincial 
highways are classified as high level nodes, and the other intersections are low level nodes. 
After one month of use, the frequency of use of all nodes is compared; thus, 10% least-used 
high level nodes is changed to low level nodes, and are replaced by the same number of the 
most-used low level nodes. 
After selecting the high level nodes, the Voronoi diagraph [10] is plotted as shown in Fig. 7, in 
which all high level nodes (blue nodes) are taken as the benchmark and the nodes are divided 
into several parts by the vertical line of all the link lines of each two high level nodes. The 
speed for each part to adjacent part is denoted by the mean value of the low level nodes (green 
nodes) in this part. If there is no road at the side, it is expressed as unreachable (speed=0). 
At the time of need for the path planning, the users can acquire the information necessary for 
the path planning from the data center, plot the optimal path in accordance with the algorithm 
designed by this paper, and then store the path of each planning into the mobile device. 
The proposed algorithm integrates with the hierarchical level map, bidirectional navigation, 
and virus genetic algorithm. Unlike ordinary bidirectional navigation, different algorithms are 
used for the two directions, A* starting from the starting node and Dijkstra starting from the 
 8 
 
Another advantage of utilizing hierarchical navigation is that, when the users find that the path 
optimization is necessary due to over high Congestion Level in a road section in the previously 
planned path, only the part of the road section with poor efficacy needs to be recalculated, 
without re-planning the entire route. The speeds that are slower than the speed limit are 
classified, as presented in Table 1, where Speed represents the proportion of the driving speed 
to the speed limit. For instance, suppose that when the user is driving as Fig. 8(a) and the data 
center receives the information that the Congestion Level of a road section is higher than 3, and 
transmits it to nearby users, the user determines whether to optimize the path at discretion. If 
the user wants to optimize the path, the mobile device system will request the data center for 
the information of the part of this section and adjacent sections as Fig.8 (b), and then 
re-navigate as Fig.8(c). If there are too many parts in need of path optimization, from the time 
when the traffic information is requested from the data center, where the user locates is 
regarded as the starting point for re-navigation. The user can also select the Congestion Level 
of path optimization at discretion. 
However, if all road users use the same algorithm to plan their path to a popular scenic spot, 
this will put all the vehicular in the same road and produce the congestion situation. In fact, 
there are some other paths with only a little bit larger in the path weight. If we can navigate 
some of the vehicular to the alternate paths, it will make the roads usage in an average manner. 
In order to achieve this goal, we add a random vector of a small value to the Eqn 3.1 to become 
Eqn 3.3. With the  little random value will make the path with similar total path weight 
chosen by our navigation system. Of course, if there is only existed on path to the destination, 
our design is useless. 
      (Eqn.4.3) 
5 CONCLUSIONS 
In this paper, we proposed a mechanism similar to Web 2.0 manner to collect real-time road 
information. Road users can consume the collected by participating the information generating 
within their vehicular traveling. By the collected real-time information, we also proposed a 
hierarchical bi-direction path planning algorithm, and we introduce a new concept of using two 
different algorithms in the bi-direction computation. We also introduce a roads usage in an 
average manner by adding a random vector into our algorithm. Future studies can consider 
other situations, for example, to predict the possible influence area of congestion and the use of 
this information in dynamic route planning.  
6 REFERENCES 
[1] Hahne, F.; Nowak, C.; Ambrosi, K.: Acceleration of the A*-Algorithm for the Shortest Path Problem in Digital 
Road Maps, Operations Research Proceedings, 2008, 2007(XIX), 455-460. DOI:10.1007/978-3-540-77903-2_70 
[2] Goldberg, A. V.: Point-to-Point Shortest Path Algorithms with Preprocessing, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 
2007, 4362/2007, 88-102. DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-69507-3_6 
[3] Cheng, H.; Cao, J.; Fan, X.: GMZRP: geography-aided multicast zone routing protocol in mobile ad hoc networks, 
Mobile Networks and Applications, 14(2), 165-177. DOI: 10.1007/s11036-008-0135-4 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 99-2221-E-182-025- 
計畫名稱 動態路況資訊與行車導航系統之設計 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
張賢宗 
長庚大學資訊工程學系 助理教授 
會議時間地點 15-17 March 2011, Bali Dynasty Resort, Bali, Indonesia 
會議名稱 
2011 International Conference on Data Engineering and Internet Technology 
(DEIT 2011) 
發表論文題目 A Topic Detection and Tracking System with TF-Density 
 
一、參加會議經過 
2011 年第一屆資料工程與網際網路科技國際研討會，是由 IRAST 與 IEEE 共同主
辦的國際研討會，這一次的會議是在巴里島的 Bali Dynasty Resort 舉辦，時間為 
2011/3/15 ~ 2011/3/17 三天。雖然是第一屆的國際研討會，但是卻收錄了 247 篇論文，
而且三天的研討會中約有 139 位作者出席報告論文。 
 
第一屆的資料工程與網際網路科技國際研討會在 Bali Dynasty Resort 裡的會議廳
設置了兩個討論室以供所有論文發表，該 Resort 就位於巴里島庫塔區南部的海邊，是
一個四星級的中型飯店，巴里島天氣宜人，三月天的氣溫都在 30 度上下，而且飯店的
環境非常的清幽，但飯店外就是鬧區，因此在研討會之餘除了可以使用飯店的設施以外，
就算到飯店外一切也都很方便。此次會議的兩位 Program Chair 都是台灣的學者，分別
是成功大學的高宏宇教授與中正大學丁川康教授，其中丁川康教授還是本人在博士班期
間的師長，因此參與此次研討會特別有感覺。 
本次研討會的討論內容非常廣泛，大至整個網際網路的技術，而小的部分也有演算
法的設計與討論，此次的研討會一共分為多個主題，分別為知識工程、網路媒體、生醫
系統、網路安全與網路隱私、智慧型商業系統、語意網、資料探勘與演算法、網路應用
程式、網際網路與教育、資料庫與資料模型、資料與知識工程應用程式、部落格、機器
學習與智慧技術、社群網路與網路服務、網路搜尋與網路廣告、網路效能、網路容量與
網路可用性…幾乎包含所有網際網路上相關的技術與主題，而且大會在第一天與第三天
三、攜回資料 
1. CDROM 
2. Conference Program 
3. 註冊收據 
4. 主辦單位提供之紀念品 
四、建議 
希望能過多補助研究生前往參加國際會議，參加國際會議絕對可以增加學生語文、
經驗、膽量，是一個非常好的訓練。 
 
五、其他照片 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張賢宗 計畫編號：99-2221-E-182-025- 
計畫名稱：動態路況資訊與行車導航系統之設計 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
