 2
platinum thin film around 7.5 μm in thickness was 
further deposited on the surface of CoNiCrAlY coating 
by a magnetron sputtering process. The superalloy 
coupons with bare bond coat and Pt coated bond coat 
were pack aluminized at 850oC for 4 hours to produce 
(Ni,Co)Al and PtAl2 phases on the surface, respectively. 
Two coatings were identified as “Co-aluminized or 
aluminized” and “Co-Pt-aluminized or Pt-aluminized” 
coatings in this work. Details of the pack aluminizing 
process were revealed in the previous study [3, 32]. 
After that, all samples were overlaid an yttria-stabilized 
zirconia (YSZ) top coat by air plasma spraying (APS). 
Then all specimens were were subjected to a thermal 
cyclic test at 1100oC. Each testing cycle included 60 min 
at 1100oC, followed by ambient air cooling for 10 min. 
Weight changes were recorded every 2 cycles (except 
the first cycle) with a precision electronic balance with 
0.1 mg accuracy. 
The microstructures of both as-processed and 
oxidation tested coatings were observed by using a 
scanning electron microscopy (SEM). X-ray 
diffractometry (XRD) equipped with a Cu target was 
used to analyze the phases of coatings. An electron probe 
microanalyzer (EPMA) was utilized to analyze the 
element distribution. 
 
3. Results and Discussion  
 
3.1 Microstructure evaluation  
 
Typical optical microstructures of the as-processed 
thermal barrier coatings with various bond coats are 
shown in Fig. 1. The porosity of the top coat was about 
12-15%. Thickness of the top coat with various bond 
coat was controlled in the range of 220 to 240 μm. All 
specimen surfaces of bond coat were not flattened by 
either an aluminizing or a Pt aluminizing process and 
exhibit a surface roughness (Ra) about 8.5 μm. There is 
no significant difference amount all samples. 
Fig. 2 shows the cross-sectional EPMA 
microstructure of the TBCs with various bond coats. Fig. 
2 (a) shows the microstructures of HVOF sprayed 
Co-32.6Ni-21.1Cr-8.3Al-0.6Y coatings revealed that the 
coating consisted of a γ-CoNiCrAl phase with γ’-Ni3Al 
phase embedded in the matrix [32]. Similar observation 
was illustrated in previous study [8]. The EPMA 
cross-sectional microstructures of an aluminized sample 
revealed that the outer region of the aluminized coating 
consisted of a β-(Co,Ni)Al phase with a thickness about 
40μm as shown in Fig. 2 (b). Microstructures of the 
aluminized sample were similar to the region below 
PtAl2 phase in Fig. 2 (c). Fig. 2 (c) indicates that the 
outer part of the Pt-aluminized bond coat consists of a 15 
μm thick PtAl2 phase and a β-(Co,Ni)Al phase beneath it. 
For aluminized and Pt-aluminized samples, an 
interdiffusion zone possessing a higher Cr concentration 
was observed between β-(Co,Ni)Al phase and 
γ-CoNiCrAl phase. 
 
3.2 Oxidation behavior  
 
Figure 3 (a) and (b) shows cyclic test results of all 
samples. The weight gain of the HVOF-sprayed and 
Pt-aluminized samples continued to increase after 60 
cycles while the aluminized samples reached the 
maximum weight gain at 20 cycles, and then 
dramatically lost weight. At the outset, weight gains of 
the aluminized and Pt-aluminized samples were similar, 
but weight gain of the HVOF-sprayed sample was 
significantly higher than those of the other two samples. 
Weight gains of all samples were lower than the plasma 
sprayed bare Ni-22Cr-10Al-1Y coating in previous 
studies [14, 15]. The maximum weight gain of 
HVOF-sprayed sample was higher than that of 
aluminized and Pt-aluminized samples. From the cyclic 
life shown in Fig. 3, it can be concluded that both 
aluminizing and Pt-aluminizing treatment improves the 
thermal cyclic life of thermal barrier coatings which with 
HVOF-sprayed bond coat about 20%.  
The EPMA cross-sectional microstructures of TBCs 
with three different bond coats after the spallation of top 
coat were investigated. As shown in Fig. 4, results of the 
TBCs with HVOF sprayed bond coat reveal that the 
outer layer of the bond coat consists of a continuous γ- 
CoNiCrAl phase. The Al content had depleted to about 5 
wt. %, which is lower than the original level of 8.3 wt. %. 
In Fig. 5, The EPMA cross-sectional microstructure of 
the TBCs with aluminized coating shows that a major 
β-(Co,Ni)Al phase and γ-CoNiCrAl phase were 
observed in the outer region of bond cost. The 
Al-depleted γ-CoNiCrAl phase is identified near the 
surface due to the outward diffusion of Al to form 
α-Al2O3 oxide and thus causes further severe oxidation 
of the coating. Fig. 6 and Fig. 7 depict the EPMA 
cross-sectional microstructure and the X-ray mapping of 
the TBCs with Pt-aluminized coating after 216 cycles. 
Fig. 7 shows that a major β-(Co,Ni,Pt)Al phase and 
γ-CoNiCrAl phase were observed in the outer region of 
bond coat. The microstructure was similar to that in Fig. 
5, but a minor amount of γ-CoNiCrAl phase.  
 
3.3 Failure morphology  
 
Figure 8 illustrates SEM surface morphologies of 
the bond coat after the spallation of top coat. The dark 
area revealed the asperities of bond coat while the gray 
area represents the existence of residual top coat which 
attached to the bond coat after the spallation of top coat. 
It means the spallation was initiated and propagated 
within the top coat near the bond coat/top coat interface. 
The dark area of the TBCs with aluminized bond coat 
was larger than the others, implied the spallation 
occurred more near the bond coat for this sample. 
Fig. 9 (a) and (b) respectively shows the XRD 
patterns of top side of bond coat and the bottom side of 
top coat after the spallation of top coat for various 
samples. In Figure 9 (a), only Al2O3 grown oxide was 
detected for TBCs with aluminized coating and 
Pt-aluminized coating while Al2O3, Ni(Cr,Al)2O4 and γ-CoNiCrAl phase were observed for TBCs with HVOF 
sprayed bond coat. In Figure 9 (b), peaks of Al2O3 oxide 
were found in all samples. The intensity of TBCs with 
aluminized coating and Pt-aluminized coating were more 
profound. The existence of Al2O3 peaks implied that 
Al2O3 has spalled and attached to the spalled top coat 
 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Typical optical microstructure of the TBCs with 
various bond coats; (a) HVOF sprayed; (b) Aluminized; 
(c) Pt-aluminized. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Cross-sectional EPMA microstructure of the 
TBCs with various bond coats; BEI, (a) HVOF sprayed; 
(b) Aluminized; (c) Pt-aluminized.  
. 
 6
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. Cross-sectional EPMA microstructure of the 
TBCs with Pt-aluminized bond coat after 216 cycles and 
failed: (a) SEI; (b) BEI. 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7. Cross-sectional EPMA microstructure and the 
X-ray mapping of the Pt-aluminized samples tested for 
216 cycles; element symbol representing X-ray 
mapping.  
 
 
 
 
 
 C-1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                             日期： 99 年 7 月 30 日 
一、參加會議經過 
本次個人參加 ThinFilms2010 會議，係參加明道大學張奇龍主任主辦的會議參訪團，於
7 月 10 日(周六)搭乘海南航空 17:00 的班機直飛大陸的大連市，同行的還有國內不少公私立
大學校院，包括清華大學、中興大學、明道大學、明志科技大學、雲林科技大學、海洋大學、
東南科技大學與本校的教授(本系謝淑惠主任及楊崇煒教授)、各校的碩博士班學生以及家眷
等共 33 人。一行人自大連市機場至金海大酒店下榻，第二天早上則再到大連機場轉機，於 7
月 11 日下午約 3 點入住哈爾濱市的最佳西方酒店。 
本次 2010 年薄膜與表面塗層技術進展國際研討會(ThinFilms2010)為第五屆，正式研討會
自 7 月 11 日至 7 月 14 日止在黑龍江省哈爾濱市的哈爾濱工業大學國際會議廳舉行，此研討
會的規模非常盛大，參加人數極多，有來自世界各地 37 個國家地區的作者七百餘人，許多
各國學者專家、學生與工程技術人員與會，總計參加者發表論文包括口頭報告 300 餘篇，海
報發表 400 餘篇，當中並有許多鍍膜領域的著名學者與會。 
本次大會共有十二大主題，分別在 6 間會議室與 2 個海報展示廳進行口頭報告與海報展
示，這次研討會的主題包括以下項目： 
1、Biological coatings (BCT) 
2、Coatings for clean energy (CCE) 
3、Electrochemistry of thin films (ETF) 
4、Ferroelectric and piezoelectric thin films (FPT) 
5、Mechanical properties of thin films (MPF) 
計畫編
號 NSC-98-2221-E-150-028 
計畫名
稱 
結合層改質提昇電漿噴銲 MCrAlY/ZrO2-Y2O3絕熱塗層熱循環氧
化性能之研究 
出國人
員姓名 蔡丕椿 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立虎尾科技大學材料科學
與工程系教授 
會議時
間 
99年 7月 11日至
99 年 7月 14 日 會議地點 中國黑龍江省哈爾濱市 
會議名
稱 
(中文)第五屆薄膜與表面塗層技術進展國際研討會 
(英文) The 5th International Conference on Technological Advances of Thin 
Films & Surface Coatings, ThinFilms2010 
發表論
文題目 
(中文)具鋁化、白金鋁化噴銲結合層之電漿噴銲絕熱塗層的高溫
循環氧化性能 
(英文) Thermal Cyclic Oxidation Behavior of Plasma Sprayed Thermal 
Barrier Coatings with Aluminized, Pt-aluminized High Velocity 
Oxygen Fuel Sprayed Bond Coatings 
 C-3
些作者們交換意見。 
本次大會的晚宴於 7 月 13 日晚上在香格里拉大飯店舉行，個人與工研院的幾位博士(做
太陽能相關研究)、交大的博士生及本系同仁等同桌，席間大家互相交換研究心得，享用豐富
的晚餐，欣賞餘興表演，亦別有一番風趣。 
7 月 14 日亦聽了許多口頭報告並參閱海報論文，此次美中不足的是有許多原本安排好的
論文發表者臨時缺席，使得整個論文發表程序混亂不連續，有些場次只來了一半的論文報告
者，又因為這個場次接近會議結束的尾聲，現場出席的聽眾大多為發表論文者，因此場面有
些冷清，不像第一、二天的熱絡，不過幸好主持者都能帶動氣氛，每位上台報告論文的學者
都很兢兢業業的努力報告、提出深入問題，使得整個發表過程仍然具有相當的學術水準。 
 
二、與會心得 
個人非常感謝國科會提供經費，使敝人能有機會參加本次國際會議，口頭發表論文，透
過聆聽他人之成果增長鍍膜之相關知識，薄膜領域橫跨材料、物理、化學、光電、半導體、
機械、生醫等領域，對於不同的應用場合所需要的薄膜材料系統及分析鑑定方法都大不相同，
就個人著重的機械應用之硬膜之研究而言，必須對於薄膜微結構與相關性質的關連性分析技
術有更多與更深入的探討，所以必須培養研究學生對於各式精密儀器設備，例如高解析度
TEM、奈米壓痕儀、拉曼光譜儀、X 光電子質譜儀(XPS)等等的原理與應用要更深入瞭解其原
理，熟練且正確的執行量測與分析，研究才能突顯出價值與深度。另外研究及成果若能與產
業界相連結，使其產業化或應用於工業產品之製程，這才是更具有經濟意義的事情。 
 
三、考察參觀活動 
本次參加會議除了發表論文、聆聽報告參閱海報論文之外，並特別抽空於 7 月 14 日下午，
與本系系主任謝淑惠教授、楊崇煒教授等人一同前往哈爾濱工業大學材料科學與工程學院參
觀，在哈爾濱工業大學航天學院李宜彬教授的安排下，特請銲接技術與工程系范成磊教授出
面接待。雖是初次見面但范教授親切熱情為我們介紹材料學院及銲接系，我們首先聽取范教
授報告該學院的五個系所(材料科學系、材料工程系、焊接科學與工程系、材料物理與化學系、
信息材料與技術系)與三個國家級重點實驗室(現代焊接生產技術、金屬精密熱加工、空間材
料及環境工程)，也了解到該學院的教育本科以及科研重點，范教授還帶領我們逐樓參觀了該
系的各個教學與現代焊接生產技術國家重點實驗室，其教學與研究很值得參考，尤其在國內
銲接人才的培育皆含在機械領域及材料領域系所之下的情況。哈爾濱工業大學現代焊接生產
技術國家重點實驗室多年來在政策和學校的大力扶持之下，逐步形成了五個方向的研究開發
體系，逐年自外國引進噴塗製程設備的能量，2004 年經學校批准正式成立了“哈爾濱工業大
學喷涂研究中心”，令人感傷的是國內對噴銲及噴塗層之特性研究之學者已不多，所幸台電綜
合電力研究所及工材所均有製程與研究的能量，本次個人所發表之論文的試片即是工材所所
協助噴銲的。 
參觀中特別感到震撼的是他們的材料科技都以實用化為主要出發點，所以許多實驗設備
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 結合層改質提昇電漿噴銲MCrAlY/Y2O3-ZrO2絕熱塗層耐熱循環氧化性能之研究
計畫主持人: 蔡丕椿
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-150-028- 學門領域: 表面技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
