英文摘要及關鍵詞 
 
 As the need for renewable energy sources becomes more urgent, photovoltaic energy 
conversion is attracting much attention. The traditional silicon-based solar cells require 
expansive inorganic materials and complicated semiconductor processing limiting the wide 
application of cost-effectiveness solar cells. This has motivated extensive research on organic 
solar cells, since small-molecule and polymer semiconductors have the potential to be 
implemented into thin-film and especially flexible photovoltaic devices. 
 
The aim of this project is to fabricate high-mobility organic thin-film solar cells for the 
improvement of cell efficiency. Vacuum deposition method is adopted to prepare P3HT/PCBM 
blend layer and pentacene (p-type)/F16-CuPc (n-type) structure, respectively. Thermal annealing 
is carried out to improve carrier mobility through the electrode/thin film and P/N interfaces. The 
mobility of organic materials can be determined by Hall measurement, and carrier mobility in the 
cells will be extracted from the linear fitting of current-voltage (J-V) using empirical 
space-charge limited conduction (SCLC) and Poole-Frenkel relationship. The conversion 
efficiency of the cells is measured under simulated sunlight (AM 1.5 and 150-W) at room 
temperature. This interdisciplinary work collaborate major research of AGI (organic chemicals) 
and NUU (thin film process and electrical characterization). The main effort is to clarify the 
concern issues on the materials and processing, and also fabricate all-organic solar cells with 
excellent electrical properties. Furthermore, a platform is established for communication and 
exchange of technology and research results. 
 
 
 
Keywords: Organic thin film; P-N structure; Interface; Electrical properties 
 
 
 
膠、玻璃及不鏽鋼板)，(3)優異吸光性，(4)可撓性佳，(5)材料選擇性多，(6)光學及電性易
於控制(tunable)。目前有機太陽電池的發展相對於其它各式太陽電池均屬於萌芽階段，國
內外的研究單位也針對薄膜材料、結構、電荷傳遞、有機染料、製程等不同領域進行實驗
與探索。針對第四代有機太陽電池低效率的缺點，可藉由增加有機薄膜的光吸收及提高載
子的遷移率來提昇電池效率。 
 
 有機太陽電池具有類似 PN 接面的結構，有一 donor 層(D)與一 acceptor 層(A)，例
如共軛高分子(MDMO-PPV)與 fullerene molecules (PCBM)。當有機半導體吸收光子，並
非直接產生可自由移動的載子，而是產生束縛的電子-電洞對，或稱為激子(excitons) 。
這些激子具有能量但淨電荷為零，當擴散到分解區時束縛的電子-電洞對便會分離，分
離後的電子往陰極移動，電洞則往陽極移動，形成外部電路所需的電荷。此計畫重點
在於製作高性能之混合接面，建立量測方法以確認其 I-V 特性。 
 
2. 實驗部份 
2.1 熱蒸鍍系統 
 本實驗的上電極採用 indium tin oxide (ITO) 透明導電玻璃(Rs < 20 Ω/□)，ITO 玻璃
先後以 DI water 及 acetone 清洗，再以紫外光臭氧照射 20 分鐘以去除有機物及其他污染
源。我們將採用真空蒸鍍法來製備 n 型及 p 型有機薄膜， 反應室(reactor)的真空度控制在
1x10-6 mbar，膜厚是以石英振盪器(quartz oscillator)量測，範圍約 200~500 nm，P 型有機半
導體材料選擇 pentacene 和 poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT)，n 型則選擇 F16-CuPc 和
[6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyricacid methyl ester (PCBM)，基板溫度設為 300 °C，沉積速率約為 5 
°A/sec。沉積後的薄膜均將採用不同溫度(75, 100, 125, 150 °C)來進行退火，時間範圍是
10~60 分鐘，以比較薄膜結構對光吸收的影響。為減少實驗變數，染料規劃選商業化的
perylene 或 CuPc (Aldrich)。對電極(陰極)則選擇高功函數金屬-Au 以濺鍍法成長，厚度約
1~5 μm (Rs 約為 0.1 Ω/□)。有機薄膜之自由載子遷移率、載子濃度及電阻可由霍爾效應
量測。元件(I-V)電性則由以電化學工作站或 HP4155A 於室溫下進行量測。 
 
 
  
3. 結果與討論 
 蒸鍍系統在真空1.5x10-5 torr條件下之沉積速率約為300 nm/min，有機薄膜目標厚度為
500 nm~3 μm。觀察ITO玻璃上的覆膜性，薄膜厚度須在1 μm以上，所得的薄膜較為均勻。
在完成薄膜沉積後，須立即以濺鍍法沉積Au，以減少空氣與濕氣對有機薄膜的影響。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖(一) 用於霍爾量測之organic sample(右)，藍色為有機薄膜，橘色為Au。 
 
