可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98 年08月 16 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：針對介面原子晶格結構與能帶和諧度在 
Ni-FUSI/Hf-based/Si 閘極結構層之研究 
計畫主持人：譚湘瑜         
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－034－ 001           
學門領域：功能陶瓷 
技術/創作名稱 針對介面原子晶格結構與能帶和諧度在 Ni-FUSI/Hf-based/Si 閘極結構層之研究 
發明人/創作人 譚湘瑜 
英文： 
Numerous insulators with a higher permittivity than SiO2, such as 
Al2O3, Y2O3, TiO2, ZrO2, HfO2, and SrTiO3 have been studied as alternatives 
for SiO2 in downscaling of complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor 
(CMOS) field effect transistor dimensions. Among many potential high-k 
oxides, HfO2 is considered as one of the most promising materials to 
satisfy considerably large band gap, high dielectric constant, and
compatibility with conventional CMOS processes because of the thermal 
stability. However, there are some problems to deteriorate its electrical 
characteristics such as the formation of Hf–silicate layer at the 
interface between HfO2 layer and Si substrate, and the steep increase of 
the interfacial layer due to the crystallization in HfO2 layer after 
annealing treatment. To fabricate high-quality gate insulators, it is 
necessary to find out the change of the electrical properties according 
to the different chemical states after annealing treatment.  In 
additional, the use of poly-Si gate electrodes on high-k has brought on 
serious concerns, including high gate leakage, unable to scale down EOT, 
Fermi level pinning of the effective gate work function, channel mobility 
and reliability degradations. Metal gate is required for future CMOS 
generation to suppress boron penetration gate depletion associated with 
Poly-Si gate. The goal of any potential high-k gate dielectric is to
attain a sufficiently high-quality interface with the Si channel, as 
close as possible to that of SiO2. It is difficult to imagine any material 
creating a better interface than that of SiO2. It is crucial to understand 
the origin of the interface properties of any high-k gate dielectric, 
so that an optimal high-k–Si interface may be obtained.  In additional, 
the bonding constraints must also be considered at the Si dielectric
interface. In this proposed work, in order to fully understand the 
interface of Ni-FUSI/HfO2/Si and Ni-FUSI/HfSiO/Si gate stacks for 
advanced CMOS device applications, we will focus our investigation in 
the physical and electrical properties.  The key challenges of 
successfully adopting Ni-FUSI/Hf-based high-k gate stack technology into 
advanced CMOS are mostly coming from the interfacial properties, which 
including the thermal stability of high-k, interfacial reaction with 
underlying Si, charges/traps in high-k as well as interfaces, and gate 
stack reliability.  In this research work , we will study the 
interface-related issues with high-k gate stacks and investigate how the 
atomic interface structures affect the properties of metal gate/high-k 
dielectric/Si stacks, or how the macroscopic properties (e.g., band 
alignments) are related to the electronic structures on small length
scale (e.g., interface bonding). A combined approach of (i) 
characterization techniques, e.g., transmission electron microscopy
(TEM), and x-ray photoemission (XPS), and (ii) electrical
characterization - MIS diode and Schottky barrier diode theories will 
be applied to investigate the interface atomic structure and band 
alignments at NiSi/HfO2/Si and NiSi/HfSiO/Si gate stacks. 
Characterization studies (TEM and XPS) will provide a complete picture 
for the metal/oxide and oxide/Si interfaces on the atomic scale. The 
electrical characterization would offer explanations for the related 
experimental results and provide insight into the physical mechanism 
behind the formation of metal/high-k oxide and high-k oxide/Si 
interfaces.  
 
 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
半導體電子分析技術 
The Interfacial Properties of HfO2/Si and HfSiO/Si Gate Stacks 
 
＊S.Y. Tan (譚湘瑜)1    
1. Department of Electrical Engineering, Chinese Culture University  
(私立中國文化大學 電機工程系) 
（NSC97-2221-E-034-001） 
  
 
As CMOS devices are scaled down into nano-region, SiO2 dielectric is approaching its physical and electrical limits.  
High-k material has been investigated widely in recent years, and gate oxide take place growth oxide with Hf-based 
below 45nm gate length technology node has been shown.  The phenomenon of interfacial property between bulk 
silicon and gate dielectric materials (HfO2 and HfSiO) was focused.  A comparison of capacitance-voltage (C-V) 
characteristic of gate insulator was presented.  Furthermore, the electrical property and thermal stability of high-k 
dielectric materials at various post deposit anneal (PDA) temperatures were established.  The X-Ray diffraction 
technique was (XRD) utilized to analyze crystallization of the thin films, and the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy 
(XPS) was applied for surface chemical bounding energy to identify the silicon and dielectric layers.  Results show 
that HfSiO films have exhibited a superior performance on both thermal stability and electrical performance.        
Keywords:  HfO2; HfSiO; High-k Dielectric; Interfacial Property  
 
1. Introduction 
Numerous insulators with a higher permittivity than 
SiO2, such as Al2O3, Y2O3, TiO2, ZrO2, HfO2, HfSiO and 
SrTiO3 have been studied as alternatives for SiO2 in 
downscaling of complementary metal oxide 
semiconductor (CMOS) field effect transistor dimensions 
[1,2]. Among many potential high-k oxides, HfO2 is 
considered as one of the most promising materials to 
satisfy considerably large band gap (5.68 eV), high 
dielectric constant (k~30), and compatibility with 
conventional CMOS processes because of the thermal 
stability [3,4]. However, there are some problems to 
deteriorate its electrical characteristics such as the 
formation of Hf–silicate layer at the interface between 
HfO2 layer and Si substrate, and the steep increase of the 
interfacial layer due to the crystallization in HfO2 layer 
after annealing treatment [5,6]. To fabricate high-quality 
gate insulators, it is necessary to find out the change of 
the electrical properties according to the different 
chemical states after annealing treatment. Some groups 
suggest that the oxide capacitance in accumulation region 
decreases due to the relative increase of the interfacial 
layer or increases due to the densification of HfO2 layer 
as the annealing temperature increases in the different 
annealing atmospheres [5,6].   
In addition, HfSiO film has been extensively studied 
recently, mainly because that the silicate-Si is chemically 
similar to the SiO2-Si interface, HfSiO can yield lower 
leakage current than HfO2 with the same equivalent oxide 
thickness, because of it large band gap and heavier 
electron effective mass [7]. 
 
2. Experiments 
P type, (100) oriented silicon substrates with 
resistivity of 15-25Ωcm were used to obtain MIS 
capacitors. First, wafers were cleaned using the Radio 
Corporation of America (RCA) method and surface oxide 
was removed by treatment with a diluted hydrofluoric 
solution, leaving an H-terminated surface. The HfO2 and 
HfSiO films were deposited on the wafers by MOCVD 
system. After deposition, rapid thermal post-deposition 
annealing (PDA) was performed to the samples at a 
substrate temperature of 550 ℃and 850 ℃. Finally, 
aluminum film was sputtered on top of the wafers and 
patterned as the top electrode, and aluminum were 
sputtered on the rear side to serve as the ohmic contact. 
The film thickness was determined by ellipsometry and 
the films composition and chemical states were examined 
by XPS. The leakage current density-voltage (J-V) and 
capacitance-voltage (C-V) of MIS capacitors were 
measured using Agilent 4156A precision semiconductor 
parameter analyzer and Keithley 590 C-V analyzer, 
respectively. 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
In Figure 1 for HfO2 films with PDA temperatures 
at 550 °C and 850 °C, the XRD peaks corresponding to 
polycrystalline Hf were present.  Above 850 °C, 
relatively strong Hf peaks, were observed.  For HfSiO 
films with PDA temperatures at 550 °C and 850 °C 
(Figure 2), the XRD peaks were not observed after a PDA 
temperature at 850 °C.  This indicates that the HfO2 
films became highly textured at a high PDA temperature, 
whereas, HfSiO films were found to be stable in a high 
temperature. As the annealing temperature is increased 
from 550 to 850 °C, the HfSiO film remained as 
amorphous which indicate that HfSiO is more stable at 
these temperatures.  Therefore, the nucleation of Hf 
occurs at a higher temperature for HfSiO films than for 
HfO2 films.   
 
 Figure 1. XRD spectra of HfO2 films with post 
deposition annealed temperature (PDA) at 550 °C 
and 850 °C.  
2. M. Copel, M.A. Gribelyuk, E. Gusev, Appl. Phys. Lett. 
76 (2000) 436. 
amorphous texture could effectively reduce bulk and 
interface trapping density.  As a gate dielectric, 
amorphous films are desirable because a poly-crystalline 
film induces fast impurity diffusion via gain boundaries 
and within-wafer variation of electrical properties. 
Unfortunately, most single oxide high-k dielectrics except 
Al2O3 have been reported to crystallize at low 
temperature (<600 °C.) [8].  The high-k material such as 
HfO2 has been reported to be vulnerable to the diffusion 
of oxygen which causes formation of interfacial layer [8]. 
3. L.F. Schneemeyer, R.B. Van Dover, R.M. Fleming, 
Appl. Phys. Lett. 75 (1999) 1967. 
4. S.J. Lee, H.F. Luan, W.P. Bai, C.H. Lee, T.S. Jeon, Y. 
Senzaki, D. Roberts, D.L. Kwong, Tech. Dig. Int. 
Electron Devices Meet. (2000) 31. 
5. M.H. Cho, Y.S. Roh, C.N. Whang, K. Jeong, S.W. 
Nahm, D.H. Ko, J.H. Lee, N.I. Lee, K. Fujihara, Appl. 
Phys. Lett. 81 (2002) 472. 
6. M.R. Visokay, J.J. Chambers, A.L.P. Rotondaro, A. 
Shanware, L. Colombo, Appl. Phys. Lett. 80 (2002) 
3183. 
 
 
7. G.Licovsky, B. Rayner, Y. Zhang, J. Whitten, Tech. 
Dig. Int. Electron. Devices Meet. 617 (2002). 
8. G. D.Wilk, R. M.Wallace, and J. M. Anthony, J. Appl. 
Phys., 89 (2001), 5243–5275. 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Leakage current density characteristics 
of MIS capacitors with PDA at 550 °C.  
 
 
 
Figure 9. Leakage current density characteristics 
of MIS capacitors with PDA at 850 °C.  
 
4. Conclusion 
The phenomenon of interfacial property 
between bulk Si and gate dielectric materials (HfO2 
and HfSiO) was investigated.  The XRD results 
indicated that HfSiO film with PDA at 850 °C was 
still amorphous due to its thermal stability. The 
XPS was applied for surface chemical bounding 
energy to identify the silicon and dielectric layers.  
The annealing after deposition effectively reduced 
trapping density and the leakage current, and 
eliminated hysteresis in the C–V curves due to the 
densification of HfO2.  Nevertheless, HfSiO films 
have exhibited a superior performance on both 
thermal stability and electrical performance.   
 
Acknowledgement 
This work was supported by the National Science 
Council under award no. NSC97-2221-E-034-001. 
 
References 
 
1. M. Houssa, M. Tuominen, M. Naili, V. Afanas’ev, A. 
Stesmans, S. Haukka, M.M. Heynes, J. Appl. Phys. 87 
(2000) 8615. 
出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文
The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society (TMS) is the professional organization
encompassing the entire range of materials science and engineering, from minerals
processing and primary metals production to basic research and the advanced applications
of materials. The Society’s broad technical focus covers light metals; electronic, magnetic 
and photonic materials; extraction and processing; structural materials; and materials
processing and manufacturing. The mission of TMS is to promote the global science and
engineering professions concerned with minerals, metals and materials. The Society works
to accomplish its mission by providing technical learning and networking opportunities
through interdisciplinary and specialty meetings.
I was invited to present our research papers in two symposia sections at 2009
TMS Annual Meeting & Exhibition (February 15-19, 2009 • Moscone West Convention 
Center • San Francisco, California):
(I) Characterization of Minerals, Metals and
Materials-Characterization of Microstructure of Properties of
Materials III
Title: CHARACTERIZING THE INTERFACIAL PROPERTIES OF HfO2/Si AND
HfSiO/Si GATE STACKS
Authors: S.Y. Tan, Ming-Yuan Wu, Hsing-Hung Chen, and Yi-Lun Hsia
Presentation Date: 02/18/2009 at 8:45 am
Location: Moscone West Convention Center - 3009
Abstract
As CMOS devices are scaled down into nano-region, SiO2 dielectric is approaching its physical
and electrical limits. High-k material has been investigated widely in recent years, and gate oxide
take place growth oxide with Hf-based below 45nm gate length technology node has been shown.
The phenomenon of interfacial property between bulk silicon and gate dielectric materials (HfO2
and HfSiO) was focused. A comparison of capacitance-voltage (C-V) characteristic of gate
insulator was presented. Furthermore, the electrical property and thermal stability of high-k
dielectric materials at various post deposit anneal (PDA) temperatures were established. The
X-Ray diffraction technique was (XRD) utilized to analyze crystallization of the thin films, and
the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was applied for surface chemical bounding energy to
identify the silicon and dielectric layers. Results show that HfSiO films have exhibited a superior
performance on both thermal stability and electrical performance.
Proceeding of EPD Conference 2009: pp. 153-160
(II) Phase Stability, Phase Transformations, and Reactive Phase
Formation in Electronic Materials VIII
Title: INVESTIGATIONS OF THE INTERFACIAL PROPERTIES IN
NI-FUSI/HF-BASED/SI AND NI-FUSI/SIO2/SI STACKS BY I-V AND XPS
TECHNIQUES




