Control structure design for robust combustion 
via identification of thermoacoustic circuit structure 
Boe-Shong Hong 
Feedback Systems Lab of the Department of Mechanical Engineering 
National Chung Cheng University, Chia-Yi, 621, Taiwan 
 
Abstract 
 
A specific system structure of thermoacoustics in a combustion chamber results in the 
observable trade-off between propulsion performance and combustion robustness. Therefore, 
to identify this system structure and design a corresponding control structure becomes 
currently important for building highly powerful and environment-protected engines. This 
project proposes a lab research to identify the circuit structure of thermoacoustics, and has an 
ambitious aim to show that it is only through system-structure identification that any control 
system becomes effective. In fact, we are trying to prove that the control system should be 
structured by three components: a thermal capacitor and a mechanical capacitor at the inlet of 
the combustion chamber; a mechanical inductor at the outlet; and a feedback control that 
renders out-of-phase between temperature fluctuation and combustion heat modulation. 
 
Keywords: System structure; system dynamics; control structure; thermoacoustics; 
combustion instability. 
whether mathematical models and control algorithms should be complicated or simple, we 
focus on a more involved control structure based on the identified system structure. Here, we 
realize the thermoacoustic dynamics in a combustion chamber as a distributed mechanical 
circuit embedded with thermal circuit, and derive a simple equation to represent its system 
structure. The system structure that conforms to the observed trade-off phenomenon between 
propulsion performance and robust combustion is served for control structure design. It is 
hopefully to find the control structure contains two passive controls: a thermal capacitor and a 
mechanical capacitor at the inlet and a mechanical inductor at the outlet, and a feedback 
control: the out-of-phase Rayleigh control. 
 
2. Lyapunov analysis of thermoacoustics dynamics 
 
Like pure acoustics, thermoacoustics should be a behavior in the elastic field. In the field of 
elasticity, a differential mass element consists of an infinitesimally mechanical inductor, 
mechanical resistor, mechanical capacitor, thermal resistor and thermal capacitor, through or 
across which are two pairs of voltage versus current: pressure versus velocity (displacement 
rate) and temperature versus entropy rate. Through the differential element are pressure and 
entropy rate and across it are velocity and temperature.  
 
As of such, the elastic potential in the differential mass element consists of the thermal 
potential, 
TsET ′′= ρ~
2
1 , 
where ρ~  is the density of mean-flow, and the mechanical potential, 
wppE ii
M ⋅∇′≡′=
2
1
2
1 ε , 
where iiε  is the summation of normal strains of the mass element, 332211 εεε ++  that can 
be formulated by the displacement of mechanical vibration w , wii ⋅∇=ε . Obviously, the 
kinetic energy in the mass element is equal to  
t
w
t
wuuE K ∂
∂⋅∂
∂=′⋅′= ρρ ~2/1~2/1 . 
Therefore, the thermoacoustic energy E  is the mass element becomes  
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ ′′+⋅∇′+∂
∂
∂
∂=++= Tswp
t
w
t
wEEEE TMK .~
2
1 ρ .   (1) 
The relationship of the density ρ′  of thermoacoustics and the vibrating displacement w  is 
)~( wρρ ⋅−∇=′ , 
which is derived as follows. For an arbitrary control mass with volume β  that is increased 
by β∆  due to the vibration of its boundary β∂ , the law of mass conservation renders that 
∫∫∫∫∫
∫∫∫∫∫∫
∂
+
⋅′++′+=
′+=
ββ
βββ
ρρρρ
ρρρ
dSnwdV
dVdV
ˆ)~()~(
)~(~
∆ , 
which can be rephrased by Divergence Theorem as 
        ∫∫∫ ⋅∇+′= β ρρ Vw d)]~([0  
that equals, based on the principle of localization, to  
0)~( =⋅∇+′ wρρ . 
Furthermore, based on the constituent law and thermodynamics first law, the relationships 
(2) appear as  
∫∫∫∫∫∫∫∫ ∂ ⋅−′′=∂∂ βββ dSnuEdVTTQdVEt ˆ~~/ .     (3) 
Equation (3) behaves as the kernel equation of this project. It reveals two dominated reasons 
of combustion instability: 
(R1) The velocity of mean-flow u~  together with nonzero boundary conditions at the inlet; 
and  
(R2) The phase difference between the rate of unsteady heat generation Q′  and the 
temperature fluctuation T ′  at the location of flame. 
 
As for the first reason (R1), Eq. (3) indicates that the velocity of mean-flow carries 
thermoacoustic energy into the chamber at the inlet when the fluctuated state on boundary is 
not vanished, that is, pressure, velocity, or temperature punctuations are not zero at the inlet. 
The situation is getting worse along with the increase of mean-velocity u~ . As for (R2), we 
must note that the thermoacoustics is governed by the feedback interconnection of 
heat-to-acoustic (HTA) dynamics and acoustic-to-heat (ATH) dynamics. That is, the 
magnitude of the first term of the right-hand-side of Eq. (3) is increased along with a 
decreased phase margin of the transfer function from the heat fluctuation Q′  to the 
temperature fluctuation T ′  at the location of flame. It seems that high temperature of 
mean-flow will decrease the phase margin of HTA dynamics. Since high propulsion 
performance is always accompanied by large mean-velocity and high mean-temperature, it 
tends to destabilize the thermoacoustic dynamics, and thus decreases combustion robustness. 
This system structure of thermoacoustics explains the trade-off destiny between high 
propulsion performance and combustion robustness, as stated at the beginning Section. 
Usually, the head of combustion chamber connects to a compressor and its tail connects to a 
nozzle, and thus the mean-velocity at the inlet and outlet relative to the speed of aero vehicle 
should not be considered as zero. 
 
Based on the system structure, a control system for relieving this trade-off destiny is best 
structured by three modules: 
(M1) A feedback compensator that processes the temperature fluctuation signal to determine 
the fast modulation of fuel injection – The compensator should have out-of-phase Bode 
plot within the bandwidth of HTA dynamics; 
(M2) A thermal capacitor and a mechanical capacitor at the interface between the combustion 
chamber and the compressor – This decreases the thermoacoustic state fluctuation at the 
inlet, and therefore decreases the thermoacoustic energy carried into the chamber by the 
mean-velocity at the inlet; and 
(M3) A mechanical inductor at the interface between the combustion chamber and the 
nozzle – This increases the thermoacoustic energy carried out of chamber by the 
mean-velocity at the outlet. 
 
3. Identification of thermoacoustic circuit structure 
 
Via a lab research, this project aims to study the system structure of thermoacoustics in a 
combustion chamber, and based on which to propose an effective control structure for robust 
combustion even in high-performance propulsion. Correspondingly, the objectives of this 
project is listed as follows: 
 
[O1]Observation of the trade-off between high-performance propulsion and robust 
combustion; 
 
Involve the inverse-eigenvalues engineering joined with disturbance observer to identify the 
boundary condition that contains homogenous part and inhomogeneous part. This 
methodology can be referred to [10-11], in which the inhomogeneous part is modeled as a 
time-variant input to the thermoacoustic dynamics. We may find whether the fluctuated state 
at the inlet and outlet reaches to zero for those operating points with stable combustion. 
 
[Step 5] Anti-control thermoacoustic dynamics 
 
Use the boundary heater to arouse endogenous boundary conditions at the inlet and imply 
in-phase Rayleigh control. Based on the kernel equation, Eq. (3), this will anti-control the 
thermoacoustic dynamics and thus tends to produce combustion instability. Under the 
anti-control, make a DC-AC characteristic plot and compare it with that without anti-control. 
 
[Step 6] Control thermoacoustic dynamics 
 
Install a muffler as a mechanical capacitor and cooling-air injector as a thermal capacitor at 
the inlet as well as use out-of-phase Rayleigh control. Again based on Eq. (3), this will carry 
thermoacoustic power from elastic filed to the flow field, and therefore induces a robust 
combustion. Similarly, for this situation, make a DC-AC characteristic plot and compare it 
with those with anti-control and without control/anti-control. It is time to perform a 
semi-qualitative analysis with those three DC-AC characteristic plots. Obviously, Step 2 is for 
the Objective 1, Step 5 and Step 6 are for the Objective 3. The Objective 2 can be checked 
based on the observed phenomena from Step 2 to Step 6. 
 
The magnitude and phase of the dynamics from modulation of fuel rate to the temperature 
fluctuation is plotted in Figures 3 and 4 where the information of bandwidth (BW), phase 
margin (PM) and gain margin (GM) is also included in Figures 3 and 4. This Bode plot can 
help us to understand the AC-characteristics of this experimental power train. 
 
Conclusion 
 
This project provides identify the system structure and design a corresponding control 
structure for building highly powerful and environment-protected engines. This project 
proposes a lab research to identify the circuit structure of thermoacoustics, and shows that it is 
only through system-structure identification that any control system becomes effective.  
 
Acknowledgements 
 
National Science Council of Taiwan has financially supported this work under grant number 
NSC 95-2221-E-194-076 for one year. The authors here express their utmost thanks. 
 
 
成果自評： 
1. 研究內容與原計劃相符程度：70%，達成預期目標情況：70%。 
2. 正準備於燃燒與控制學術期刊發表。
Table 1. Experimental components 
Component Function Layer 
Combustion 
chamber  
A confined chamber in which chemical 
reactions happen 
Mechanics 
Outlet nozzle A mechanical inductor for transforming 
thermal energy to kinetic energy 
Mechanics 
Rotating fan  Pumping air into the chamber Mechanics 
Fuel gas 
container 
A reservoir of fuel gas Mechanics 
Fuel gas 
piping 
Leading fuel gas to the chamber Mechanics 
Flame holder Preventing flame from diffusion Mechanics 
Fire Igniter  Igniting combustion  Mechanics 
Tires and 
track  
Facilitating motion due to propulsion Mechanics 
Spring bumper Measuring propulsion thrust Mechanics 
Cooling air  A thermal capacitor at the inlet  Mechanics 
Muffler  A mechanical capacitor at the inlet  Mechanics 
Fuel gas 
switches 
Regulating the fuel gas mean-flow rate  
Electrical 
valves  
Fast modulation of fuel gas flow rate Sensors/ 
actuators 
DC motor Providing power to the rotating fan  Sensors/ 
actuators 
Boundary 
heater 
Arousing inhomogeneously boundary 
condition at the inlet  
Sensors/ 
actuators 
Mean-flow 
meter  
Transducing the mean-velocity at the 
outlet into voltage signal  
Sensors/ 
actuators 
Mean 
temperature 
sensor  
Measuring mean-temperature at the 
outlet 
Sensors/ 
actuators 
Optical 
temperature 
fluctuation 
transducer  
Transducing the temperature function 
at the flame location into voltage 
signal 
Sensors/ 
actuators 
Acoustic 
pressure 
transducer  
Joining the optical temperature 
fluctuation transducer to Monitor 
entropy fluctuation 
Sensors/ 
actuators 
Current 
transducer 
Transducing motor current into voltage 
signal  
Sensors/ 
actuators 
Angular 
velocity 
transducer 
Transducing motor speed into voltage 
signal  
Sensors/ 
actuators 
Four-phases 
buck choppers 
Power electronics modules for driving 
speeds of the two electrical-control 
valves in the fuel gas piping 
Control 
Electronic
s 
Single-phase 
boost 
choppers  
Power electronic modules for driving DC 
motor and boundary heater  
Control 
Electronic
s 
DSPIC chips Signal processors preceding to 
choppers for A/D, DSP and PWM functions 
Control 
Electronic
s 
Voltage Providing DC voltage levels to PIC Control 
 Acoustic pressure 
transducer 
Optic temperature  
fluctuation transducer
DC motor
Outlet 
nozzle 
Flame holder&
Fire igniter  
Mean-temperature
sensor 
Rotating fan
Mean-flow 
meter 
Current transducer 
Boundary 
heater 
Flame
Electrical 
valve 
Angular velocity  
transducer 
Muffler 
Fuel gas 
switches 
Fuel gas 
container 
&piping 
Cooling air 
Tire and track Spring bumper
Figure 1.  Layers of mechanics and sensors / actuators  
Combustion 
chamber 
0 5 10 15 20 25
10-3
10-2
10-1
100
101
Frequency (rad/sec) 
Magnitude 
Figure3 The AC characteristics-Magnitude of the experiment power train 
