 1
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 █成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
（計畫名稱） 
 
 
計畫類別：▓個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  100－2221－E－150－062－ 
執行期間：100 年 8 月 1 日至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：虎尾科技大學  電機系 
 
計畫主持人：鄭佳炘 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：徐靈承、李明俊、鄭永沛、何忠憬、羅偉嘉 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：▓精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
▓出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國 101 年 10 月 31 日 
 3
2.報告內容 
2.1. Introduction 
Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) is a potential technique for high-speed data 
transmission over indoor and outdoor wireless communication systems [1][2]. OFDM is a kind of multicarrier 
modulation technique, that signal bandwidth divided into several subcarriers, and then transmits the data on 
each subcarrier.  
In multicarrier modulation, since the channel bandwidth is divided into several narrow subcarriers, the 
frequency response over each individual subcarrier is relatively flat. Each subcarrier occupies only a small 
fraction of the original bandwidth. Since the system’s data throughput is the sum of the throughputs of all the 
subcarriers, the data rate per subcarriers in a multicarrier system is only a fraction of the data rate of a 
conventional single carrier system having the same throughput. This feature allows for system designs 
supporting high data rates while maintaining symbol durations much longer than the memory of the channel. 
  In wireless communication system, due to the environmental impact generated the multipath effect 
caucused signals distortion and attenuation in transmitted process, and due to relative motion between 
transmitter and receiver caused the Doppler effect that make the signal carrier offset, Therefore, knowledge of 
the channel characteristics are very important. To remove the effect from received signal, the receiver needs to 
have knowledge of channel impulse response (CIR) by channel estimation, and then compensates signals.  
Artificial neural networks (ANN) are examined as possible solutions for solving complex problems such 
as image and signal processing [3]. ANNs are composed of many interconnected neurons that operate in 
parallel and connected together via weights [4]. ANNs have a large number of highly interconnected 
processing elements that usually operate in parallel and are configured in regular architectures. The collective 
behavior of an ANN, like a human brain, demonstrates the ability to learn, recall, and generalize form training 
pattern or data. The Back propagation Neural Network (BPNN) is a hierarchical feed-forward ANN consisting 
of three or more fully interconnected layers of neurons. The BPNN is currently the most widely used ANN 
architecture.  
Genetic Algorithm (GA) is one of the optimization algorithms, which is invented to mimic some of the 
processes observed in natural evolution. This heuristic is routinely used to generate useful solutions to 
optimization and search problems. Genetic algorithms belong to the larger class of evolutionary algorithms 
(EA), which generate solutions to optimization problems using techniques inspired by natural evolution, such 
as inheritance, mutation, selection, and crossover [5].  
In this project, we use back propagation neural network (BPNN) to estimate channel and compensate 
signals. The reason of use neural network to do channel estimation and compensation is that the neural 
network does not require definition of the problem of complex mathematical models that deal with complex 
problem and uncertain environment by learning. The traditional back propagation neural network used 
gradient descent method to find the optimal solution, and then updated the weight values. Gradient descent 
method usually converges to a local optimum, which may not find the global optimum. Therefore, we used the 
genetic algorithm (GA) to replace the gradient descent method to search for the optimal solution in this 
project. 
 
 5
1
2 /
0
( ) { ( )}
        ( )     0,1,..., 1
i i
N
j mk N
i
n
Y k FFT y n
y n e k N



                             (5) 
Then received signal represented as:  
 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )i i i iY k X k H k W k                                     (6) 
 
2.3. Use Back Propagation Neural Network for Channel Estimation  
2.3.1 Back Propagation Neural Network 
Back Propagation Neural Network (BPNN) is currently the most widely used ANN architecture. That use 
input data and the corresponding target values to train the network, and then adjust the weight values by 
calculating the error between the target output and the network output, until the network output approximation 
the target output. 
Re{ }iI
ijw jkw
h
jO
o
kO
1
hnet
10
hnet
4
hnet
3
hnet
2
hnet
1
onet
2
onetIm{ }iI
1I
2I
Re{ }iX
Im{ }iX
 
Fig. 2 BPNN architecture for channel estimation. 
 
Figure 2 is BPPN architecture for channel estimation, in input layer have two units, in hidden layer have ten 
units and output layer have two units. My system model show in figure 1, in transmitter we insertion pilot 
symbols and in receiver we use that pilot symbols to estimate channel. After FFT we apart received signals into 
real and imaginary parts, and we take pilot symbols of receiver as training data, take pilot symbols of 
transmitter as target output.  
We thrown into the training data to train the network, in input layer, units not did any process for data, only 
as input data passing interface, transmit data forward. In hidden layer, we computed the output of hidden layer, 
that can represented as:  
, 1, 2,...,10    1, 2hj i ijnet I w j i                           (7) 
where iI  is input data of thi units, ijw  is input-to-hidden layer weights. Then we obtained hidden layer 
output by activation function that represented as:  
( )h hj jO f net                                                       (8) 
 7
computation way such as described in section 2.3.1, expressed as follow:  
( ) ( )hj i ijnet p I w p                                      (16) 
( ) ( ( ))h hj jO p f net p                                       (17) 
( ) ( ) ( )o hk j jknet p O p w p                                   (18) 
( ) ( ( ))o ok kO p f net p                                         (19) 
where p  is number of population, example: ( )ijw p  is hidden layer weight of thp population. After 
operated, generated p  group network output, then we computed fitness values, expressed as follow: 
 21( ) ( ( ))
2
o
k kE p G O p                               (20) 
After operated, generated p  group fitness values, then start operated of genetic algorithm. In genetic 
algorithm, first step is selection strategies, and we used tournament selection method. The tournament 
selection operated is randomly selected three groups genetic strings, computed fitness values, and then throw 
the genetic strings which has minimum fitness value into mating district. Second step is crossover, and we 
used multi-point crossover. The crossover operated is randomly selected two groups genetic strings form 
mating district, then randomly selected two crossover points of genetic strings, change bits information of  
two genetic strings between two crossover points. Third step is mutation, and we used one-point mutation, 
The mutation operated is randomly selected one groups genetic string form mating district, then randomly 
selected one mutation points of genetic strings, change bits information of  mutation points of genetic strings.    
After operated, generated p  group new weights, then BP neural network used new weights to operate, repeat 
these step to the number of iterations terminate, when neural network finished training, take received signal 
into neural network, then we can get compensated signal.  
  
2.4. Simulation Results 
In this section, we used GA-based back propagation neural network for channel estimation, the simulate 
parameters show in table I. 
TABLE I 
OFDM SIMULATION PARAMETERS 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parameter value 
Number of subcarriers 256 
Type of modulation 16QAM 
Type of guard interval Cyclic prefix 
Length of pilot symbol 64 (bits) 
Noise model Additive white Gaussian noise 
Channel model Rayleigh Fading Channel 
Number of transmit symbol 50 
 9
 
Fig. 4  MSE values comparison Figure. 
 
 
Fig. 5 BER values comparison Figure (pilot symbol 64 bits). 
2.5. Conclusions 
In this project, we use GA-based back propagation neural network to estimate channel and compensate 
signals in OFDM systems. According to the results, our proposed GA-based back propagation neural network 
in channel estimation has better convergence rate than traditional back propagation neural network, and it is 
also better than traditional back propagation neural network and LS algorithm with respect to MSE and BER 
criteria. Although the MMSE algorithm has the best performance than our proposed algorithm, MMSE 
algorithm needs channel statistics and noise information to get channel impulse responses. Getting this 
information is infeasible in real transmission scenarios. However, the proposed GA-based back propagation 
neural network does not need channel statistics and noise information. 
  
References 
[1] L. J. Cimini, “Analysis and simulation of digital mobile channel using orthogonal frequency multiplex,” 
IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 33, pp. 665–675, July 1985.  
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：2012 年 4 月 16 日 
一、參加會議經過 
對於此次能參加無線通訊與網路技術國際研討會(WCNT2012)之國際會議，本人深感到十分地
榮幸。IET 無線通信與網絡技術國際研討會（WCNT2012）為自動控制和人工智能國際會議
（ACAI2012）的特別分會，由英國工程技術學會（IET）、福建省人工智能學會、廈門大學主辦，
於 2012 年 3 月 24-26 日為期三日在中國廈門召開。各個場次的報告內容也十分多元化，舉凡包含
有網路、通訊、行動計算以及人工智慧等研究主題，著實讓人感到收獲良多。近些年來，WCNT
會議已相當受到各界的注目，且也有許多相當傑出的論文發表，大會也相當貼心地來適度調整各
個場次的報告人員，以使得每個場次皆能流暢地完成，並讓每位參與者皆能在各個場次時間中，
完整地聽取每位來參與報告人員的報告。 
二、與會心得 
在聆聽各個場次的過程中，除了學習到各種研究主題的知識外，也深刻地體認到「系統整合」
技術將會是未來一個相當重要的技術。面對自動控制、人工智能、通訊、網路等各種研究領域的
發展，使得各個研究領域自成一體，以致如何整合彼此來達到系統最佳化，將會是一門相當重要
的課題。在此次與會的過程中，除了聆聽自身通訊研究領域之外，也嘗試了解目前有關自動控制、
人工智能、網路等各方面的研究進展，雖然現在仍然無法全盤熟悉，但經過此次會議各場次的與
計畫編號 NSC 100－2221－E－150－062－ 
計畫名稱 結合 MIMO-OFDM 系統的載波頻率偏移與通道估測和資料偵檢之研究 
出國人員
姓名 鄭佳炘 
服務機構及
職稱 虎尾科技大學電機系 
會議時間 2012年 3月 24日至2012 年 3 月 26 日 會議地點 大陸，福建廈門 
會議名稱 
(中文)無線通訊與網路技術國際研討會 
(英文) The International Workshop on Wireless Communications and 
Network Technologies (WCNT2012) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)應用於正交分頻多工接取系統之適應性多用戶干擾消除技術 
(英文) An adaptive multiuser interference cancellation for OFDMA 
communication systems 
 3
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：2012 年 7 月 26 日 
一、參加會議經過 
對於此次能參加無所不在的通訊計算與網路技術之智慧方法與演算法國際研討會 (ITAUC 2012)
之國際會議，本人深感到十分地榮幸。ITAUC 2012是與知名的創新行動與網際網路服務的無所不在的
計算國際研討會(IMIS 2012)和複雜、智慧與軟體精緻系統國際研討會 (CISIS-2012)一起聯合舉行，所
以規模算是非常大的，於2012年7月4-6日為期三日在義大利巴勒摩召開。各個場次的報告內容也十分
多元化，舉凡包含有通訊網路、資訊安全、行動計算以及人工智慧等研究主題，著實讓人感到收獲良
多。近些年來，其會議已相當受到各界的注目，且也有許多相當傑出的論文發表，大會主講者演講題
目是Location-aware Authentication and Authorization - Concepts and Issues，是探討目前針對位置感知的
證明與授權的各種方法作進一步的探討來達到使用者各種的目的。 
 
計畫編號 NSC 100－2221－E－150－062－ 
計畫名稱 結合 MIMO-OFDM 系統的載波頻率偏移與通道估測和資料偵檢之研究 
出國人員
姓名 鄭佳炘 
服務機構及
職稱 虎尾科技大學電機系 
會議時間 2012 年 7 月 4 日至2012 年 7 月 6 日 會議地點 義大利，巴勒摩(Palermo) 
會議名稱 
(中文)應用於無所不在的通訊計算與網路技術之智慧方法與演算法國
際研討會 
(英文) The International Workshop on Intelligent Techniques and 
Algorithms for Ubiquitous Computing Communications and Network 
Technologies (ITAUC 2012) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)應用於無線感測網路資料聚集之有效率的區域分割技術 
(英文) Energy Efficient Block Division Methods for Data 
Aggregation in Wireless Sensor Networks 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 結合MIMO-OFDM系統的載波頻率偏移與通道估測和資料偵檢之研究
計畫主持人: 鄭佳炘
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-150-062- 學門領域: 通訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
