 2
treated as a microcontinuum. Then the 
balance and constitutive equations for the 
granular microcontinuum can be fully 
derived. 
Since there is a link between the 
mixture and mesoscopic notations, the 
mesoscopic theory for granular materials 
could also be constructed. It is believed that 
the derived equations can be reduced to the 
Goodman-Cowin equation, describing the 
bulk motion for granular materials, and 
another part related to the shear deformation. 
In addition, we will compare our theory 
with different existing macroscopic theories 
of granular materials. 
 
Keywords: Granular materials, 
Microcontinuum, Mixture 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
The dynamics of granular materials is a 
subject of considerable scientific interest and 
a topic of enormous industrial importance. 
Granular materials, composed of discrete 
solid particles, exhibit complex phenomena 
such as solid-fluid transition, Brazil-nut 
segregation, clustering, and heap formation 
under vibration[6-10]. These phenomena 
result from the discrete nature of the particles 
and the ability of the contact forces among 
the particles to resist motion. There exist two 
different treatments: the inter-particle and the 
macroscopic approaches, to characterize the 
behavior or the motion of granular matters. 
Homogenization can formulate the 
macro-field and the constitutive relations of 
the granular medium in terms of the 
corresponding micro-fields. Contrary to 
discrete treatments, the macroscopic 
continuum theory provides a useful tool to 
dealing with the response of granular 
materials, since it has also been successfully 
used to analyze the motions of avalanches 
and debris flows of granular matters. 
Within the framework of continuum 
mechanics, the major challenge in describing 
the overall response of granular materials is 
to present a suitable macroscopic equation, 
characterizing the internal structure of 
granular media, in addition to having the 
general balance equations of mass, 
momentum, and energy. The Goodman- 
Cowin (GC) equation is a candidate for this 
purpose because it describes the time 
evolution of volume fraction by a proposed 
balance equation of equilibrated force. 
Despite the useful application of the GC 
equation to the granular flows, the introduced 
concept of equilibrated force balance is still 
not well satisfactory. 
The mesoscopic viewpoint is another 
avenue to approach the internal structure of 
materials. This approach enlarges the domain 
of the field quantities by introducing these 
mesoscopic variables, which characterize 
some specific property of the material. One 
of the advantages of the mesoscopic 
approach is that several macroscopic material 
properties can be determined without the 
need of detailed molecular potential 
information. 
The study of the mesoscopic 
description of granular materials began with 
Ehrentraut. Since only rotational degrees of 
freedom were considered in this modeling 
and a single grain in granular materials is not 
in general endowed with a geometric director, 
further modification of the mesoscopic 
modeling can be made if we choose an 
appropriate mesoscopic variable. The aim of 
this study is two-fold. First, it is an attempt to 
propose another mesoscopic approach to 
granular media. The basic requirement to this 
end is that granular media should be viewed 
as mixtures. I attempt to devise an approach 
that is compatible with the mixture concept 
of the mesoscopic approach. Second, I derive 
a set of macroscopic evolution equations for 
the motion of these materials within the 
mesoscopic continuum framework. Among 
the macroscopic equations, the moment 
equation for the mesoscopic distribution 
function is the internal variable equation 
describing the internal structure of granular 
materials. By specifying volume-stretch and 
shearing decomposition we can produce the 
volume stretch part of the combination of 
this internal variable equation and the 
 4
mesoscopic-based balance equations can be 
reduced to the balance equations of a 
micro-continuum of grade one. For a further 
reduction and analytical simplicity, this 
section still adopts the two assumptions: (i) 
the mesoscopic gyration tensor is 
independent of the argument ξ; and (ii) the 
term ∇ ·(ρC2) is discarded. These 
assumptions imply that the balance equation 
of angular momentum  and the evolution 
equation for A₂ will take the forms 
(∂/∂t)(ρνA2)+(ρvνA2-m)-ρl-tT+τ=0, 
(d/dt)A2-ν·A2-(ν·A2)T=0. 
As stated in the previous section, τ is a 
symmetric second-order tensor. The 
evolution equations for A2 and ν can be 
simplified by specifying the following 
volume-stretch and shearing decomposition: 
A2=α0I+α, 
ν=ν0I+ν, 
m=m0⊗ I+m, 
l=l0I+l, 
where α0, ν0, and l0 are scalar functions, m0 is 
a vector function, α, ν and l are second-order 
tensorial functions, and m is a third-order 
tensorial function. The volume-stretch and 
shearing decomposition requests that 
αkk=0,  νkk=0,  mikk=0,  lkk=0, 
and 
α0=(1/3)Akk, ν0=(1/3)νkk, mi=(1/3)mikk, 
l0=(1/3)lkk. 
Thus we have 
 (∂/∂t)Σij+(vkΣij),k-(mk,kδij+mkij,k)-ρ(l0δij+lij) 
-tij +τij =0, 
(d/dt)(α0δij+αij)-2(ν0α0δij+ν0αij)-α0 (νij+νij) 
-(νikαkj+νjkαki)=0, 
where 
Σij=ρ(ν0α0δij+ν0αij+α0νij+νikαkj). 
     
(I) Isotropic case: 
     
Accounting for an isotropic condition 
where α, ν, m, and l are all equal to zero, then 
we have 
(∂/∂t)(ρα0ν0)+(vkρα0ν0),k- m0k,k- ρl0- 
(1/3)tkk+ (1/3)τkk=0, 
(d/dt)α0-2 ν0α0=0. 
Accounting for the mass balance equation 
leads to 
ρα0=2(m0k,k+ ρl0+ (1/3)tkk- (1/3)τkk),  
 which serves as the evolution equation for 
the variable α0. From the definition of α0, 
first note that ξ·ξ is invariant under a rotation 
transformation. Second, note that α0 
characterizes the second moment of inertia in 
an RVE and is thus related to the 
arrangement of MMEs in an RVE. Since the 
arrangement of MMEs is apparently related 
to the volume fraction of solid particles in 
granular materials, it is proposed that α0 
depends on the volume fraction of solid 
particles, denoted by ϕ, through the relation: 
α0=2L²ϕ, 
where L is an unspecified internal length of 
granular materials. The idea of internal 
length in granular materials is originally 
proposed by Fang et al., who introduced this 
length in the modified Goodman-Cowin 
theory, attempting to explain the physical 
significance of the momentum associated 
with the volume fraction. Studying the exact 
relation between ϕ and α0 is beyond the 
scope of this project, however, accounting 
for  the above relation yields 
 ρ(d²/dt²)(L²ϕ)=∇·m0+(ρl0+ t), 
where t= (1/3)tr(t-τ). This is a second-order 
ordinary differential equation (ODE) for the 
volume fraction ϕ. 
By introducing the balance of 
equilibrated force, Goodman and Cowin 
proposed a celebrated evolution equation for 
the volume fraction ϕ as 
 ρk ϕ= ∇·h+ ρ(lGC + gGC), 
where k, h, lGC, and gGC are the equilibrated 
inertia, the equilibrated stress vector, the 
external equilibrated body force, and the 
intrinsic equilibrated body force, respectively. 
Thus it can be found that the two equations 
express the same evolution of the volume 
fraction ϕ, and both are second-order ODEs. 
The equilibrated stress vector h can be 
explained as the couple stress m₀ , and the 
external equilibrated body force lGC is 
analogous to the external body couple l0. The 
difference between the two equations is that, 
instead of the intrinsic equilibrated body 
force gGC in the GC equation, the bulk of the 
difference between stress and microstress 
