行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告
以化學氣相沉積法側向式磊晶成長氧化鋅之研究
(Study of lateral epitaxial growth of ZnO by metal-organic chemical vapor
deposition)
計畫編號：94 – 2215 – E – 259 – 002 -
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：陳怡嘉 國立東華大學材料科學與工程學系
計畫參與人員：施堯尹，杜志翰 碩士班研究生
E-mail: yjchen@mail.ndhu.edu.tw
中文摘要：
氧化鋅(ZnO)的磊晶有許多的困難，其中之一是它沒有一個晶格常數與氧化鋅相同而又
容易製造的磊晶基板。本文記錄側向磊晶成長法之研究結果。此法可將氧化鋅磊晶於藍寶
石上，即使藍寶石與氧化鋅間的晶格差異達到 18％。而氧化鋅便能保持自身的晶格常數而
側向生長，終而形成佈滿整片基板的單晶，而明顯的減少了差排量。此種方法已被運用在
氮化鎵上，但我們尚未知聞有人曾以此法嘗試氧化鋅的磊晶。原因之一是因氧化鋅之研究
仍在初階，它所需解決的問題許多都比大面積磊晶來的更迫切。原因之二可能是氧化鋅的
化性與氮化鎵不同，其同樣的磊晶模式未必能套用。無論如何，我們將嘗試以此法磊晶氧
化鋅，以期確認我們擁有此種能力。
關鍵字：化學氣相沉積法，奈米纖維，氧化鋅，磊晶，優選方向
Abstract
The epitaxial growth of ZnO encounters several obstacles, one of which is that there are no
substrates that are lattice matched to ZnO and can be easily fabricated for ZnO epitaxy. A
celebrated solution to this problem may be the lateral epitaxial growth of ZnO on sapphire
substrate with a lattice mismatch of ~ 18% between them. The threading dislocations generated
by lattice mismatch between ZnO and substrate will be largely reduced because the interface area
between ZnO and the substrate is reduced, This method has been applied to the fabrication of
GaN, but same tricks have not been reported for ZnO epitaxy, to the best of our knowledge.
The lateral epitaxial growth is not expected to be happening effectively along all directions
with respect to the substrate. Columnar growth of ZnO needs to be avoided since the lateral
growth under this growth mode is insignificant. Photoluminescence and carrier mobility data will
be reported as a reference of the progress of this growth method.
Keywords: CVD, nanofiber, ZnO, epitaxy, preferred orientation
used gold-coated (100) silicon substrate to grow ZnO by mixing ZnO and carbon powders.
Polycrystalline ZnO film with random orientations was formed. Although the ZnO of various
forms and orientations were recorded, our study shows that our ZnO growth has a special growth
orientation than those ever reported in the literatures.
Research method (研究方法)
A metal-organic chemical vapor deposition process is used for the ZnO growth. The (0002)
sapphire was used as the substrate. The substrate was immersed in acetone of 95% in
concentration, which was contained in a D.I. water cleaned beaker, and then subjected to the
150W ultrasonic vibration cleaning at 40 kHz for 30 minutes. The cleaned substrate was then
air-dried for 10 minutes before been put into the alumina tube furnace. The growth was
performed using CO2 or O2 and dimethylzinc (DMZn) as the precursors for O and Zn,
respectively. The CO2 or O2 flow rate was 1000 sccm while the dimethylzince flow rate was 0.09
sccm or 0.27 sccm . The CO2 or O2 and DMZn were mixed in and flow out of the showerhead
with diameter of 100 mm. The chamber pressure were kept at 200 torr.
The growth was processed at temperature of 300oC, 350oC, 400oC, or 450oC. Conventional SEM
and field emission SEM were used to observe the microstructure of the deposit, and the-2scan
of x-ray diffraction was used to determine the plane and growth direction of the grown ZnO.
Result and discussion (結果與討論)
1. MOCVD of ZnO by dimethylzinc and CO2
1.1 The growth rate of ZnO
The growth rate variation with growth temperature can be obtained by the measurement of
deposition thickness at different temperatures. A typical relationship is shown in fig. 1.
The experiment was performed using CO2 and dimethylzinc (DMZn) as the precursors for O and
Fig. 1. The thickness of the ZnO film grown at different temperatures.
Fig. 2. The surface morphology of ZnO film (top view) grown using
CO2.
Fig. 3. The surface morphology of ZnO film (top view) grown using
CO2.
Fig. 4. The XRD patterns and thickness of ZnO films.
At either higher or lower temperatures than 350oC, continuous films were formed. The
vermicular structure at 400oC is typical of sintering caused by surface diffusion between rods. At
450oC, the high sintering rate and low growth rate causes the rods to lose their aspect. At 300oC,
the sintering rate is expected to be low; however, the formation of continuous film suggests that
the connection of rods is due to the filling of atoms into regions between rods (or lateral growth)
and not by the sintering. If it is so, the film formation at 300oC will not alter the alignment caused
by sintering. Further experiments are required to prove this postulation. Nevertheless, the crystal
quality is at its best when grown at 350oC. The lateral growth should be considered under this
growth condition.
2.2 Change of oxygen flow rate
To verify if oxygen flow rate will affect the lateral growth rate of ZnO rods, growth were
performed at oxygen flow rate of 300, 650, and 1000 sccm. Fig. 7 shows the top view of ZnO
film grown at different oxygen flow rates, and their respective film thickness. It is clearly seen
that as the oxygen flow rate reduces, the separation between rods increases, and the diameter of
the rods increases. It is an interesting finding since the increased diameter means the enhanced
lateral growth.
The reduced oxygen flow rate causes the reduced total flow rate. Since the chamber pressure is
the same and the DMZn flow rate is the same, the reduced oxygen flow rate imply reduced
oxygen partial pressure and increased Zn vapor pressure. Also, the reduced oxygen flow rate
imply thicken boundary layer for atomic diffusion. Whether oxygen or zinc pressure or both
affect the lateral growth is not known, three possible mechanisms can be postulated. (1) The
oxygen pressure reduction may reduce the growth along the [0002] and prolong the dwell time of
Zn on ZnO surface, so rods have more time grow laterally between successive (0002) layer
growths. However, the growth is considered diffusion-controlled at 350oC; the reduced growth
rate along [0002] should be the Zn flux reduction due to increased diffusion layer and not because
of the oxygen pressure reduction. The fact that the thickness of film increases as oxygen pressure
reduces may discourage this postulation, although the thickness increase may be due to the low
density of the film, and not directly related to the deposition rate. (2) The oxygen pressure
Fig. 6. The thickness of ZnO films grown using O2.
suggests that the growth at 350oC is not reaction controlled, but Zn diffusion controlled. This
observation makes postulation (1) possible.
3. Comparison of ZnO growth under different flow rate of DMZn
3.1 Growth under oxygen flow
The sample was prepared using high DMZn flow rate of 0.27 sccm, and the surface morphology
is shown in fig. 9. While the surface morphology is still under investigation, the thickness is 3
times larger than in the previous condition. The thickness increase is roughly proportional to the
increase of DMZn flow rate, suggesting the diffusion controlled growth mode.
3.2 Growth under carbon dioxide flow
Fig. 10 (a) shows the typical surface morphology when high flow rate of DMZn were used. The
nanorods are replaced by the standing flakes of ZnO. The shape change can be explained by the
Fig. 9. The surface morphology of ZnO films (top view) grown using
high flow rates of O2.
Fig. 10. The surface morphology of ZnO films (top view) grown
using high flow rates of CO2.
6. Photoluminescence study of annealed samples
An annealing study was performed on ZnO film grown at 400oC using DMZn, CO2, for 20
minutes. The photoluminescence spectra of annealed film are shown in fig. 12. Exciton
luminescence does not occur until the annealing temperature reaches 700oC and higher. The green
luminescence increases with annealing temperature until 700oC. At 700oC and higher
temperatures, there is a peak around 750 nm. There is also a peak at 420 nm, which has peak
intensity variation with temperature following the same trend as that for peak at 550 nm. The
peaks at 420 nm and 750 nm are unique to the DMZn/CO2 grown ZnO. Both peaks are assumed
to be associated with carbon species. That the luminescence at 550 nm does not disappear but
maintain at a constant value at 700oC and higher suggests that the defect level is stable and may
be used for illumination applications.
7. Acknowledgement
Author would like to thank Prof. Hao-chung Kuo from National Chiao Tung University for the PL
measurement and Prof. Ray-Hua Horng Chung Hsing University for providing patterned sapphire.
Self-evaluation of the research result (成果自評)
We have studied the ZnO lateral growth in detail. This study provides opportunities and
limitations of ZnO growth by MOCVD method. The choice of oxygen precursor is critical of the
final microstructure and crystal orientation. The use of CO2 as the oxygen precursor provides a
possibility for planar ZnO epitaxy on sapphire substrate while the crystal quality is not
significantly compensated. This is an encouraging finding that a relative simple modification of
the MOCVD process can be used for ZnO epitaxy.
The annealing provides a possibility of using carbon doped ZnO as the white light source. By
careful design of annealing process, an all visible light luminescence spectrum may be possible.
Fig. 12. The XRD and PL spectra for annealed ZnO films.
