 2
interferometric technique. Examples of these 
methods include infrared photoelasticity, 
advance Moiré, Moiré interferometry, 
white-light speckle photography, etc. [7]. 
Although these techniques are fairly sensitive 
and can provide localized stress information, 
the optical setups are fairly large and usually 
confined to laboratory setting use. Last two 
decades, embedded optical fiber sensors have 
began to be deployed in distributive 
mechanical measurement in the civil structures 
and aerospace applications [8]. These devices 
are small and unaffected by electromagnetic 
field interference and can be made relatively 
compact with a diode source and detector. 
Optical fiber sensors are also known for their 
sensitivity and high dynamic range. 
Furthermore, the sensors can be embedded in 
most structures with minimal modification. 
However, the complexity in the composite 
fabrication, selecting a proper protection 
coating for the sensor and resolving the 
interaction between the sensor and composite 
sometimes can limit its sensitivity and 
applications. Here we present a new means of 
transducing force using a diffractive grating 
sensor that eventually can be laminated to a 
test specimen for stress analysis. This paper 
described the optical performance of the 
grating sensor using micro MTS tensile test 
incorporated with the Raman-Nath diffraction 
grating experiment to show that a relationship 
between the load and the observed diffraction 
pattern shift could be obtained. 
 
Typical techniques for patterning gratings on 
polymers include holographic surface relief 
grating [9-12], electro-beam (e-beam) 
lithography [13,14], laser-beam direct writing 
[15],X-ray mask technology [16], and phase 
mask lithography [17]. Although an e-beam 
lithography process provides flexibility and 
high resolution in defining almost any 
prescribed pattern, it is limited to very small 
throughput and there is difficulty in obtaining 
accurate pattern placement. Alternatively, the 
laser-beam direct writing technique provides 
the same flexibility in pattern definitions, but 
the etching profile is highly dependent on the 
operating wavelength. Thermal effects 
stemming from the laser ablation also causes 
unwanted irradiated material that collects 
around the edge of the etched material. The 
advantages of the holographic interferometric 
technique are that it can provide flexibility in 
the grating period and depth by changing 
incident laser beam angles, and the irradiation 
time. The minimum grating period is reduced 
to λ /2(λ : light wavelength) and it is only 
limited by the wavelength of the light source. 
 
There are many replication processes that are 
simple and involve fairly easy fabrication; such 
as hot-embossing [18], UV-embossing [19], 
and micro-transfer molding method [20]. 
Although these methods are ideal for mass 
production, they still have some problems to 
overcome; such as lip problems or only limited 
substrate and core material can be used. 
However, if these molding processes are 
combined with a LIGA-like process that can 
produce a mold for the subsequent molding 
processes, it shows great mass production 
potential [21]. Utilizing a similar concept, in 
this paper we described a technique for 
combining the holographic interferometric and 
micromolding process to create a grating 
sensor on a polymer surface. 
 
三、研究報告內容 
1. Sensor Fabrication 
The fabrication of the polymer diffraction 
gratings sensor utilizes a unique micromolding 
and holographic interference technique that we 
recently developed. The fabrication process 
begins with creating a mold on a Pyrex glass 
substrate. A precut 2.0 by 1.0 cm2 Pyrex glass 
substrate was spin coated with a layer of 0.6μ
m thick positively tone Ultra 123 photoresist 
(MicroChem Corp., MA.). This sample was 
first baked in a convection oven at 90o for 120 
seconds to remove excess solvent from the 
photoresist. The sample was then placed on the 
sample holder for the holographic light 
exposure for 170 seconds (Fig.1). This sample 
was postbaked in an oven at 110o for 120 
seconds. After baking, the sample was rinsed in 
MF26A developer (MicroChem Corp., MA.) 
for 30 seconds until the grating pattern was 
obtained. The patterned resist was then used as 
a mold to transfer the grating pattern onto a 
(PDMS) thin film using typical micro-molding 
technique [22] (e.g. stamping). The result from 
the scanning electron microscope (SEM) 
micrograph of the PDMS gratings indicates a 
good pattern transfer from the photoresist 
gratings (Figure 3). The thickness 
 4
be obtained from the displacement y (distance 
between the central maximum to the first order 
maximum) and D (separation between gratings 
to the observed screen), 
D
y
d =θtan                     (4) 
The 45° gratings sample test was performed 
using the same mechanical and optical setup, 
but the ruler is a large circular protractor 
(Figure 6). The period change of the 45 ° 
gratings was monitored by the angle and the 
position change of the diffracted light. 
 
The plots of displacement change as a function 
of the force using one sensor with two different 
grating alignments, and one with no gratings 
are shown in Figure 7. The displacement was 
ramped at a rate of 0.1mm/s. All three curves 
appear nonlinear. This is expected since the 
PDMS is an elastomeric material. The results 
show that a sensor that was oriented 90° with 
respect to the longitudinal direction gratings 
most easily displaced among the three cases we 
studied. This is expected since the load is 
applied along the axial direction, which is 
perpendicular to the lines of the grating. The 
results also show that a sensor with gratings 
oriented at either 90°  or 45°  from the axial 
direction displace more easily than that of the 
sample with no gratings. This effect is similar 
to a corrugated structure commonly seen in the 
diaphragm of a speaker where the displacement 
of the diaphragm is enabled by the fact that the 
surface tension of the structure is reduced due 
to the corrugated structure on the sample. In 
the case of the sensor, the axial displacement is 
relaxed by the corrugated structure. The results 
also show that sample with 90° gratings tends 
to displace more than 45° gratings under the 
same load. This is also expected since 45 ° 
corrugated lines only relieve the surface 
tension along the horizontal direction. 
 
For the 90° grating off axial direction sample, 
the gratings period along axial direction 
appeared to increase nonlinear with the 
increasing axial load (Figure 8). This is 
expected since the axial load versus axial 
displacement was also nonlinear. An 
interesting result was observed in the grating 
period shift due to the tensile load applied to a 
45° off axial direction grating. Based on the 
result taken for the 45° grating, it was shown 
that the grating period initially increased with 
the applied axial load. However, when the load 
reached 0.05 N (the value would be smaller if a 
finer scaled load cell was used), the grating 
period stopped increasing and started 
decreasing. It is apparent that the grating 
period along the direction perpendicular to the 
corrugated lines would be slightly reduced 
when the gratings are rotating due to the 
Poisson contraction in the transverse direction 
of the PDMS sample. The reduction in the 
width in the PDMS caused the grating’s period 
to rotate off of its original 45° angle, which in 
terms induced a rotation in the diffraction 
pattern (Figure 9). The rotation angle was first 
dramatically changed, and then it was slightly 
reduced after 005N. This rotation may also 
affect the change of 45° grating period where 
the grating period is now decreased linearly 
with increasing applied load. Overall, the 
grating period varies in a predictable manner 
with the applied load where the loads are either 
angled at 45° from the grating or perpendicular 
to the gratings. 
 
Based on our initial test, the minimum 
detectable force for the grating sensor is 0.05N. 
However, the sensitivity of our load cell was 
limited at 0.05 N. Therefore, we believe this 
number should be much lower if a more 
sensitive loading and optical setups were used 
for the measurement. 
 
4. Conclusion 
The polymer diffraction gratings were 
successfully fabricated using the holographic 
interference technique. The depth/width ratio 
could be easily controlled by the incident angle 
and exposing time of the laser light. The micro 
MTS tests incorporated with the Raman-Nath 
diffraction grating experiment showed that the 
grating period on PDMS polymer was sensitive 
to the tensile or shear loads. The results from 
our preliminary study show the polymer sensor 
capable of measuring small axial load and 
shear load of 0.05N. It is our intention that a 
tensile/shear sensor will be derived from the 
concept for mechanical or biomedical 
applications. 
 
四、參考文獻 
1. M. H. Lee and H. R. Nicholls, “Tactile 
sensing for mechatronics—A state of the 
 6
Supersonic Waves”, Proceedings of 
IndianAcademy of Sciences, A8, pp.499-503, 
1938. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.1.The optical setup for the grating construction 
using laser holography. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.2. Grating depth as a function of light exposing 
time on photoregist (0.95⎧m grating period, the 
intensity of the combined laser beams is 15μ
W.) 
 
 
 
Fig.3. The SEM micrograph of the gratings on 
PDMS polymer. 
 
 
 
 
Fig.4. The top view of the PDMS tensile test 
sample (the unit is in mm). 
 
 
 
 
Fig.5. The micro MTS test accompanied with the 
Raman-Nath diffraction grating experiment. 
 
 
Fig.6. The optical setup for the 45o diffraction 
grating measurement. 
 
 
 
 
 8
附件：封面格式 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※
※                        ※ 
※      高分子及金屬光柵在機械力感測器上應用      ※ 
※                        ※ 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－150 － 017－ 
執行期間： 95 年 08 月 01 日至 96 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：何智廷 教授 
計畫參與人員：王鵬程、林盈宏、林郁凱 
              簡琪峰、張明秋、張勝安 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
■赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
 
執行單位：國立虎尾科技大學機械設計工程系 
 
 
中 華 民 國 96 年 08 月 13 日 
表 Y04 
一、參加會議經過 
    2007 年亞太光學製造會議 2007 暨先進光學技術展望院士高峰論壇(Asia Pacific 
Conference on Optics Manufacture 2007 and High Level Experts Forum on Advanced Optics 
Technology)於一月十一日至十三日在香港理工大學 The Hong Kong Polytechnic University 舉
行。本屆大會有來自世界各國之專家學者與會，其中來自我國之與會人員，分別來自學術界、
研究機構、工程顧問公司、政府機關等。 
    筆者於一月十一日抵達香港，並且於早上八時三十分完成報到註冊手續。開幕典禮由本
次會議的主席香港理工大學李榮彬教授致歡迎辭，李榮彬教授是為此次會議主辦學校的香港
理工大學工業及系統工程學系的傑出教授。典禮後並同時安排精彩的重點演講：演講者有周
立偉院士，1999 年當選中國工程院院士。是著名的光學專家，現任北京理工大學教授、博士
生導師。周院士長期在寬束電子光學、光電子成像領域從事教學與科研工作。研究方向為靜
態和動態寬束電子光學的理論和電腦輔助設計。發表學術論文、科技報告 200 餘篇，學術專
著 5 本。研究成果曾獲光華科技基金一等獎、部科技進步一等獎、二等獎各兩項，國家科技
進步二等獎、三等獎各一項。及金國籓院士 1994 年當選中國工程院院士。是著名的光學儀器
專家、光學信息處理的奠基人。現任清華大學精密儀器系教授，國際光學委員會副主席。率
先從事計算全息、光計算、光儲存及二元光學研究。曾主持研製了大陸第一台三座標光柵量
測機，領導可擦除光牌機、雷射陀螺等研究工作，發明了一種可擦可寫的光學頭，並獲專利。
筆者聆聽了多位主講者有關先進光學製造技術的演講，獲得不少的啟發，對於日後的研究工
作頗有助益。 
各分組會議則於當日上下午分別在各個會場同時進行。本屆會議內容相當充實且豐富，包涵
以下各個主題會議：一、Advanced Machining and Machine Tools Design。二、Optics Design 
and Fabrication。三、Metrology and Nano/Micro Device and Instrumentation。以上的
會議幾乎涵蓋了現今光學技術所有的領域，共約有二百餘篇論文在這些專門領域的年會中發
表。筆者於十三日上午發表一篇論文，論文題目:「Fabrication of High Aspect Ratio 
Periodical Structure on Metal using an Electroforming Process」。與會學者在輕鬆和諧的氣氛
下交換意見，收穫頗豐。於一月十三日圓滿閉幕。 
二、參觀活動 
筆者參加了由大會安排的先進光學製造中心(Advanced Optics Manufacture Centre)參
觀活動。該中心位於香港理工大學工業及系統工程學系內，將科學與工業發展的歷史與現況
作了一番完整且清楚的介紹，令人印象非常深刻。 
 
三、與會心得 
在短短三天的會議期間，會議主題涵蓋了基礎理論、工程技術、應用科學等領域，並依
論文特性區分主題進行研討，實極為充實豐富。此次會議最值得肯定的是，論文發表除了主
要來自學術界外，亦有部分來自工業界、工程顧問公司及政府研究單位，使得大會的議題在
理論探討中同時兼顧工程技術之實用性，促成學術界與產業界雙方正面交流。各類領域的論
文題目在討論時，不再只是學術理論的角度，更得到工業界回饋的意見，使學者專家得以走
表 Y04 
Fabrication of High Aspect Ratio Periodical Structure on Metal using an 
Electroforming Process 
Wei-Ching Chuang1, a, Ching-Kong Chao2,b ,Wen-Chung Chang3,c and 
Chi-Ting Ho4,d  
1Department of Electro-Optics Engineering, National Formosa University, Huwei, Yulin, 
Taiwan 
2Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and 
Technolog 
3Department of Electronic Engineering, Southem Taiwan University of Technology 
4Department of Mechanical Design Engineering, National Formosa University, Huwei, Yulin, 
Taiwan 
aeocwc@nfu.edu.tw, bckchao@mail.ntust.edu.tw, cwcchang@stu.edu.tw, dhoct@nfu.edu.tw 
Keywords: Gratings, Metal, Holographic interferometry, Electroforming  
 
Abstract. A procedure for fabricating a periodic structure on a metal at submicron order using 
holographic interferometry and molding processes is described.  First, holographic interference 
using a He-Cd (325nm) laser is used to create the master of the periodic line structure on an i-line 
sub-micron positive photoresist film. A 200nm nickel thin film is then sputtered onto the positive 
photoresist. Pattern is then transferred to a metal using Nickel-Cobalt electroforming. Initial results 
show the technique can accurately control the grating’s period and depth. 
Introduction 
Reflection gratings are an important component of modern high resolution spectrometers and 
related x-ray optics [1-7]. The conventional way of fabricating grating includes the steps of 
patterning and etching. These traditional methods result in gratings which suffer from a number of 
deficiencies, including high surface roughness and poor control of groove profile. These 
deficiencies lead to poor diffraction efficiency and high levels of scattered light.  
One of the main processes of fabricating grating is to pattern gratings on photoresistor. These 
typical techniques include holographic surface relief grating [8-10], electro-beam (e-beam) 
lithography [11], laser-beam direct writing [12], X-ray mask technology [13], and phase mask 
lithography [14-15]. Although these tools provide high precision in manufacturing, they are often 
limited by the size of the device that can actually be manufactured. These tools are also hard to get 
and relatively expensive. 
 On the other hand, the holographic interferometry offers important advantages compared to 
other techniques because it can easily control the period and depth of gratings, and it is more 
naturally suited to the production of high-resolution gratings than other techniques, yielding good 
uniformity of the grating period with greater ease. In addition, the theoretical limit of the frequency 
of the interference pattern produced by two intersecting beams is half of the wavelength of the 
incident beam. Thus, the grating period is limited only by the wavelength of the light source. 
Therefore, in this paper we will describe a technique for combining the holographic interferometric 
and electroforming processes to create a high aspect ratio grating structure on a metal surface.  
表 Y04 
mold to serve as a seed layer for the subsequent electroplating of Ni-Co alloy. A nickel thin film 
was then sputtered onto the positive photoresist mold by a RF sputter for 5 minutes (Fig.1 (d)). The 
power source was 50W, and the pressure was controlled to be under 5 x10-3 Torr. The thickness of 
nickel was about 200nm. Electroplating process using nickel-cobalt alloy was applied to create the 
metal grating. The sample was then immersed into a tank filled with solution of nickel and cobalt 
salt diluted in boric acid. Bars of nickel and cobalt were hanged in the tank served as anodes to keep 
the solution in balance. An electrical current passed through the solution, causing atoms from each 
element to form a metal on the surface being plated. For our setting, Boric acid: 30 - 40g/l and Co 
concentration between 1 to 20g/l and 70g/l were used. The pH level was kept around 4.0 and 
temperature was maintained near 55oC, and the solution was agitated by a magnetic stirrer (Table 
1).  
 
Table 1 Ni-Co alloy electrolyte composition 
 
Ni concentration 70 g/L 
Co concentration 1~20% (w/o) in sol. 
Boric acid 30~40 g/L 
Current density 1~10 ASD (Adm-2)  
PH 4.0±0.5 
Temperature 55±1ºC 
Agitation Magnetic stirrer 
 
In order to improve the thickness uniformity of electroplating mold, which is usually in concave 
shape, a secondary cathode was applied. The secondary cathode was placed at a specific distance 
(less than 2.5mm) from the primary cathode during the electroplating process. Two power supplies 
were used, one for the primary cathode, and the other one for the secondary electrode. Both 
cathodes shared the same anodes, and the applied current density was the same for both cathodes. 
The purpose of the second cathode was to reduce the local ion concentration of the double layer 
surface plating area. This process hindered the growth rate on the edges of the deposited mold. 
When high deposition rate occurred on the edges of the plating field, the secondary cathode became 
a frame shaped like the plating area, which was adapted to locally reduce the deposition rate on the 
primary cathode.  
After 15 hours of continuous deposition at a deposition rate of 15.6μm/hour, a 234µm thick 
layer of Ni-Co metal was deposited above the surface of the positive resist mold (Fig.1 (e)). The 
positive photoresist was then stripped away using acetone (Fig.1 (f)). The AFM and SEM 
micrographs of the gratings on metal show that the high aspect ratio periodical structure can be 
obtained by the above fabrication process (Fig.3). The average surface roughness was about 52nm. 
In order to investigate the performance of the diffraction gratings, the first order diffraction 
efficiencies,η, of the gratings with period of 495 nm and depth 325 nm on the Ni-Co metal were 
measured by a blue laser at a wavelength of 473 nm, which with TEM00 mode was  incident in the 
normal direction to the metal grating surface. A polarizer with vertical polarization direction was set 
in front of the grating to make the transverse electric wave illuminate the grating. Then, a first order 
diffraction beam was observed at the reflection plane with 71° respect to the normal direction. The 
diffraction efficiency of 78% was attained for +/- first order modes. 
 
Conclusion 
In conclusion, we have successfully created a process to produce submicron range gratings by using 
both electroforming and holographic interference techniques. A large aspect ratio on the grating 
pattern can be obtained. The grating period and depth on the metal gratings exhibit small difference 
from the original designed grating pattern. This process shows great potential for production of any 
