 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
以粉粒體偏析製備功能性梯度材料之研究 
Preparation of Functionally Graded Materials via Particle Segregation 
 
計劃編號 : NSC 95-2221-E-182-053 
執行期限 : 2006 年 8 月 1 日至 2007 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：郭修伯 助理教授 
研究生：莊孟穎、吳俊德 
執行機構 : 長庚大學化工與材料工程學系 
一、中文摘要 
本計畫以精密控制粉體偏析方式期以製備功
能性梯度材料。由於性質不同之粒子於部分充
填之滾動鼓中產生之帶狀偏析，其偏析過度隨
操作變因(主要是滾鼓轉速)不同，可以從劇烈
成分濃度變化至和緩之濃度梯度變化。我們亦
考量雙成分、三成份、四成份系統之偏析帶梯
度之變化。本計劃首次使用影像分析法，將不
同顏色大小粒子濃度之梯度變化與以量化，成
功建立梯度變化與滾鼓操作參數(主要是轉速)
之關係。 
 
關鍵詞：偏析，功能性梯度，粉粒體技術，滾
動鼓、影像分析法 
 
二、英文摘要 (Abstract) 
Functionally graded materials were proposed to 
be processed from a precisely controlled powder 
segregation process. Powders with different 
properties segregated in a half-filled rotating 
drum and the interface between segregated bands 
showed different gradient of transition from 
one-rich component band to the other-rich 
component band. In this project, axial 
segregation patterns in a rotating drum was 
studied using binary, ternary and four-component 
mixture of particles. The composition gradients 
of the segregated band interfaces were evaluated 
using an image analysing method as functions of 
the drum rotational speeds. Our results show that 
the “gradient” of the functionally graded material 
can be determined by segregation processing 
parameters. 
 
Keywords: segregation, rotating drum, 
functionally graded materials, imaging analysis 
method 
三、本文 
1. Introduction 
Rotating drums are frequently used for 
mixing, drying, granulation and other operations 
in many industries [1]. When granular materials 
of different properties, including shapes, sizes, 
densities, roughness, elasticity, etc…, are mixed 
in a horizontal rotating drum, particles of 
different properties tend to segregate [2]. 
Segregation of binary mixture of granular 
materials with different sizes in a partially-filled 
rotating drum has been extensively studied. In 
the radial direction, the concentrations of smaller 
particles increased towards the rotational shaft of 
the drum and formed a “core” [3]. In the axial 
direction, the binary mixture of granular 
materials formed alternative relatively pure 
one-component concentration bands at the 
surface of the bed [4]. 
From our previous studies on rotating drum 
segregation [5], when the fill level of the drum 
was 50%, the radial segregation of the bed was 
eliminated. Hence, the axial segregation bands 
were formed without cores. Because the 
transition from one-component rich band to 
another-component rich band varied from sharp 
transition to slow transition, we initially 
demonstrated that the core-free multi-component 
bands interface transition may be applied for the 
processing of multi-component functionally 
graded materials in current work. Axial 
segregations of three-component and 
four-component mixture of granular materials in 
a rotation drum were also studied. 
 
2. Experimental 
Two rotating drums were used as the 
experimental apparatuses. Both drums are 98 
mm in internal diameter, the short drum is 100 
as a difficult task. Here, we initially presented a 
novel gradient control method. For the 
processing of the multi-component FGMs, axial 
segregation of three-component and 
four-component granular materials was studied. 
 4
The axial segregation patterns of the 
three-component granular material mixture and 
four-component granular material mixture in the 
100 mm-length rotating drum are shown in Figs. 
3(a) and 3(b), respectively. 
 
   
Fig. 3 (a) The three-component mixture axial 
segregation pattern at 30% fill level and 10 rpm; 
(b) The four-component mixture axial 
segregation pattern at 50% fill level and 10 rpm 
 
Although the interface between alternative 
bands became indistinct when the speed of 
rotation was increase from 10 rpm to 30 rpm, the 
BCDCB axial segregation pattern and the 
ABCDCBA segregation pattern were observed at 
all the experimental fill levels and rotational 
speeds using the three-component granular 
material mixture and four-component granular 
material mixture, respectively. 
 
However, the segregation patterns in the 
199 mm-length drum were not as regular as 
those in the 100 mm-length drum. The 
three-component granular material mixture axial 
segregation patterns are shown in Fig. 4.  
  
 
 
 
Fig. 4 The three-component mixture axial 
segregation patterns at (a) 50% fill level and 20 
rpm; (b) 40% fill level and 10 rpm; (c) 30% fill 
level and 30 rpm; (d) 40% fill level and 30 rpm; 
(e) 50% fill level and 30 rpm. 
 
At 10 rpm and 20 rpm, CBABC pattern 
serves as a unit segregation pattern. The unit 
patterns repeat at 40% and 50% fill levels. When 
the rotational speed was increased to 30 rpm, the 
patterns did not show unit structure repeating. 
This was probably due to the fact that at lower 
rotational speed (i.e., 10 rpm and 20 rpm in this 
work), the granular bed flow regime was in the 
“rolling” mode, while and at higher rotational 
speed (i.e., above 30rpm in this work), the flow 
regime became the “cascading” mode. 
(a) (b) 
The four-component mixture segregation 
patterns showed two different kinds (Fig. 5). 
When the speed of rotation was 10 rpm or 20 
rpm, the axial segregation patterns were 
repeating of the ABCDCBA unit. When the 
rotational speed was 30rpm, the axial 
segregation patterns were not consisting of the 
repeating unit(s). The two different patterns may 
result from the different flow regimes discussed 
earlier.  
 (a) (b) 
  
 
(c) (d) 
  
 
(e) 
(a) (b) 
 
 
Fig. 5 The three-component mixture axial 
segregation patterns at (a) 30% fill level and 10 
rpm; (b) 50% fill level and 10 rpm; (c) 30% fill 
level and 30 rpm; (d) 40% fill level and 30 rpm; 
(e) 50% fill level and 30 rpm. 
(c) (d) 
 (e) 4. Conclusions 
In this work, axial segregation patterns of 
multi-component granular material mixture in a 
horizontal rotating drum were studied. We 
 6
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
 
 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                         日期：96 年 10 月 31 日 
 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：以粉粒體偏析製備功能性梯度材料之研究 
計畫主持人：郭修伯         
計畫編號： NSC 95-2221-E-182-053 
學門領域：化工學門 
技術/創作名稱    
發明人/創作人  
本研究應用影像分析方式探討粒子於滾動鼓軸向偏析應用於偏析
梯度材料之製備。研究成果發現除了新的操作變因與梯度變化之關
係，亦提出由此變化製備功能性梯度材料之可能性。此研究為相關
研究中，第一篇應用滾鼓偏析製備梯度材料之研究。目前本實驗室
進行一步應用粒子偏析於製備梯度材料實體(熱電材料)，以利於產
業實務推廣之運用 技術說明 This work applies image analysis method to investigate axial 
segregation in a rotating drum. The results show that the concentration 
gradient of the bands is a strong functional of the drum operating 
parameters. This is the first research work to apply band segregation 
transition for the fabrication of the functionally graded materials. 
Currently, our lab applies powder segregation method to fabricate 
thermo-electro functionally graded materials. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可應用於粉體系統之混合單元開發，如食品業、醫藥業、水泥業、
高分子工業等粒子混合單元設計。 
技術特點 應用粒子偏析於製備梯度材料。 
推廣及運用的價值 目前本實驗室進行一步應用粒子偏析於製備熱電梯度材料實作，以利於產業實務推廣之運用。 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS OF THE 11th APCChE CONGRESS 2006 
27th - 30th AUGUST 2006, KUALA LUMPUR 
PAPER ID: 424 
 
 
A STABLE OPERATION STUDY ON A CONTINUOUS MULTI-STAGE 
FLUIDIZED BED 
 
 
H. P. Kuo, M. L. Ku and C. Y. Cheng 
 
Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, Chang Gung University, Tao-Yuan, 333, Taiwan 
Email: hpkuo@mail.cgu.edu.tw 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
A continuous multi-stage fluidized bed system (also known 
as suspension bed), in which the particles are continuously 
added from the top of the column and removed from the 
bottom of the column, was studied. Since the diameter of the 
orifices on the plate is several times larger than the particle 
diameter, the particles can discharge through the orifices and 
be collected in the wind-box. In previous reports, the 
influences of the gas velocities, the solids feeding rates, the 
opening ratio of the plates, the physical properties of the 
particles on the flow regimes of such a system have been 
discussed. The effects of the orifice arrangement design on 
the plate on the operation of such a system were initially 
investigated in this paper. The results show that the orifice 
positions on the plate affect the hydrodynamics of the bed 
and hence the operation of the system. With the same plate 
opening ratio, a triangular orifice arrangement plate required 
higher solids feeding rates to reach the stable flow regime 
compared a tetragon orifice arrangement plate, causing a 
different operation map. 
 
Keywords: Multi-stage fluidized bed, Suspension bed, 
Orifice arrangement, Plate design, Flow regime. 
  
1 INTRODUCTION 
 
Gas-solids fluidized beds offer effective heat/mass transfer 
efficiencies due to the large contacting area between 
heterogeneous phases and therefore such systems are widely 
utilized in many industrial processes, including reactions, 
calcination, adsorption and other processes. In a typical 
fluidized bed, particles stay in the system during the entire 
operation while the gas flow continuously in and out the 
system. Although some operations allow particles to flow in 
and out the system continuously, for example, cracking 
catalysts in circulating fluidized beds, the particle residence 
time is usually as short as few seconds in these operations 
and may not suitable for drying, heat recovery operations. 
Although fluidized bed systems have several advantages 
in heterogeneous phase operations, they also suffer from 
some disadvantages, including particle attrition caused by 
particle interactions, pressure fluctuation caused by large 
bubble/slug bursting and other problems. Also, batch 
operation fashions and short particle residence time 
continuous operation fashions limit the application of 
fluidization technologies. 
A continuous gas – continuous solids fluidized bed 
system was studied by the addition of horizontal plate(s). 
The diameter of the orifices on the plate is several times 
larger than the particle diameter and hence gas and particles 
can pass through the orifices. The addition of plates in a 
fluidized bed system was originated from Toei and Akao 
(1968). The particles move between the plate(s) through the 
downcomers (Varma, 1975) or the orifices  (Kannan et al., 
1994). The gas and solids can be co-currently or counter-
currently (Pillay and Varma, 1982). The addition of the 
horizontal plates has several advantages: (1) avoid the 
formation of large bubbles/slugs; (2) reduce the solids short-
cut in the circulation pattern and hence narrow the particle 
residence time in the bed (Varma, 1975); (3) adjust the 
particle residence time in the system by different plate 
design and numbers (Pillay and Varma, 1982). Here, the 
operation of a counter-current fluidized bed with perforated 
plate(s) was investigated. 
Five different flow regimes have been observed in a 
counter-current multi-stage fluidized bed at different 
operating conditions, including a dilute regime, an 
oscillating shallow bed regime, a stable bubbling regime, a 
slugging regime and a flooding regime (Ju et al., 2003).  The 
operating condition comprises, at least, the opening ratio of 
the pate, the orifice diameter, the superficial gas velocity, 
the solids feeding rate, and the physical properties of the 
solids. Their influence on the flow regime have been studied 
previous (Varma, 1975; Pillay and Varma, 1982; Ju et al., 
2003). However, the influence of the plate design on the bed 
flow regimes is not yet studied. 
Early researches showed that there were strong 
relationships between the pressure drop across the 
distributor and the pressure drop across the bed pressure 
drop (Siegle, 1976; Mori and Moriyama, 1977; 
Sathiyamoorthy and Rao, 1981). Apparently, the design of 
the plate can affect the operation of the counter-current 
multi-stage fluidized bed system. Therefore, we focus on the 
study of the influence of the arrangement of the orifices on 
the plate on the flow regime of a counter-current multi-stage 
fluidized bed system in this work in order to have a 
complete understanding of the operating parameters for such 
a system. 
 
2 METHODOLOGY 
 
The experimental setup is shown schematically in Fig. 1. 
The system is constructed by four Perspex columns 
connecting together. The lengths of the four columns are 
PROCEEDINGS OF THE 11th APCChE CONGRESS 2006 
27th - 30th AUGUST 2006, KUALA LUMPUR 
PAPER ID: 424 
 
 
Therefore, a second set of experiments was conducted to 
reduce the effect of the fluidizing dead zone. The orifice 
arrangement designs shown in Fig. 3 eliminate the fluidizing 
dead zone above the plate. 
 
Fig. 4. The pressure drop across the bed for different orifice 
arrangement designs on the plate shown in Fig. 2. 
 
The comparison of the flow regimes of the bed with 
triangular and tetragon orifice arrangement plates in Fig. 3 
are shown in Figs. 5, 6 and 7. The opening ratios of plates 
used in Figs. 5, 6 and 7 were 0.37, 0.40 and 0.44, 
respectively. As the gas velocity and/or the solids feeding 
rate increase(s), the flow regimes of the bed for all six plate 
designs changes from the non-growth bed, the dilute bed, 
the stable bed to the flood bed. As the opening ratio 
increases from 0.37 to 0.44, a higher gas velocity and/or 
solids feeding rate are/is required to reach the same flow 
regime with the same orifice arrangement. The same 
conclusions had been drawn from Ju et al. (2003). 
The areas surrounded by the dashed lines in Figs 5, 6 and 
7 represent the stable flow regime in the corresponding 
operating conditions since the stable flow regime is 
probably the interests of most engineers. In Figs 5, 6 and 7, 
the triangular orifice arrangement plates show different 
stable flow regimes from the tetragon orifice arrangement 
plates. To the authors' knowledge, the effect of orifice 
arrangement design on the flow regimes is initially revealed. 
With the same plate opening ratio, a triangular orifice 
arrangement plate required higher solids feeding rates to 
reach the stable flow regime compared a tetragon orifice 
arrangement plate. This is of practical significant because in 
the case of operations preferring light solids loading, for 
example, millet drying operations, a tetragon orifice 
arrangement plate should be used; in the case of operations 
preferring heavy solids loading, for example, catalytic 
reactions, a triangular orifice arrangement plate should be 
used. 
 
 
 
 
0
10
20
30
40
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
Time(sec)
Pre
sur
e D
rop
 (m
m-H
2 O)
Fig. 2(a) 
Fig. 2(c) 
Fig. 2(b) 
Fig. 5. The comparison of the flow regimes of the bed with plates 
in Figs. 3(a) (triangular arrangement) and 3(d) (tetragon 
arrangement) at different solids feeding rate and gas velocities. 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. The comparison of the flow regimes of the bed with plates 
in Figs. 3(b) (triangular arrangement) and 3(e) (tetragon 
arrangement) at different solids feeding rate and gas velocities. 
 
 
 
Fig. 7. The comparison of the flow regimes of the bed with plates 
in Figs. 3(c) (triangular arrangement) and 3(f) (tetragon 
arrangement) at different solids feeding rate and gas velocities. 
 
 
