 2
 
  
I. INTRODUCTION  
Auto focusing (AF) is a useful technique in many applications of photoelectric 
semiconductor, electronic manufacturing, biotechnology, mechatronics, and nano-technology. 
The technique can also be implemented into a chip-embedded system, mobile phone CCD, and 
many industrial applications to gain imaging quality for measurement and inspection [Yoshida et 
al. 1991; Lee et al., 1994; Li et al. 2005; Chung et al. 2007; Han et al, 2008].  
The AF technique based on passive image processing requires quantification of image clarity 
in terms of a focal value (FV). Choi et al. developed an FV measure of weighted median filtering 
for noise rejection [Choi et al, 1999]. The Wavelet and Discrete Cosine transforms were found 
also to be able to attenuate noises [Huang et al, 2005; Lee et al, 2006]. Yap et al. developed a 
method of Chebyshev moment to overcome lighting variations [Yap et al, 2004]. Adaptive 
thresholding was applied for FV computation and implemented in an FPGA-based AF system 
[Jin et al, 2006]. Low illumination could induce a problem for the FV computation and image 
preprocessing was used as a solution [Gamadia et al, 2007].  
Most fundamental measures of image FV include those based on image gradient, such as 
Tenengrad and Laplacian; image moment, such as absolute central moment (ACM) and high-pass 
filtered image; image variance such as variance of gray level; and transforms such as fast Fourier 
transform and fast cosine transform [Zhang et al, 2000; Nathaniel et al., 2001]. Since the image 
features are normally richer at near focused lens positions, time-domain measures such as image 
gradient, moment, and variance are sensitive to changes in the lens position, and save 
computational time. However, the measures will be sensitive to noises, so they may be inadequate 
for use at out-of-focus lens positions where the image signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio is normally low. 
As a result, FV measures used at near focused positions wouldn’t prove sufficient over a wider 
range of microscopic views, when the lens position is far off focused. Near focused positions 
require more sensitivity, while far off focused positions require less sensitivity because of the 
strength of the signal to noise ratio. A new design of such measures would improve adequacy. 
In general, a maximum FV occurs at the focused lens position. An AF system requires the 
hill climbing search (HCS) algorithm to seek out the maximum FV [He et al, 2003]. The 
algorithm is normally comprised of multiple stages with adaptive steps during searches. Design 
of a near-focus HCS algorithm is straightforward because of a high signal to noise ratio. Kim et 
al. used adaptation of step size in focus positioning of CCD lens driven by a voice-coil motor 
[Kim et al, 2006]. Wang et al. studied focusing of a robot arm under x3 micro lens moving within 
a ±40δ (depth of field, DOF) [Wang et al., 2008]. However, problems could arise in the HCS as 
the lens position is further off focused or under microscopic views with larger magnification. 
Such a case having an algorithm that changes the sensitivity of the measures at the near-focus 
positions and far-focus positions would prove applicable. 
In another practical application by [Lin, 2007], non-monotonous FV variations were 
observed in the microscopic AF of liquid crystal display (LCD) when the lens was far-off 
focused – the experimental basis of this paper. To demonstrate such non-monotonous variations, 
an example of LCD images under x50 views at selected lens positions within ±50δ is shown in 
Fig. 1. The image is focused at lens position, z=0, where the FV variation at a near-focused 
region (NFR) has a distinct hill shape shown in Fig. 2. It can be observed that a relatively clear 
image is generated around the lens position of 45δ, which is hypothesized to be due to an 
interaction of coaxial light beams reflected from different LCD glass layers. However, this 
introduces the local maximum, shown in the lower right corner of Fig. 2, which is a 
non-monotonous FV variation located in the far-off-focused region (FFR). This needs to be 
considered in the HCS algorithm. 
Currently there are two major problems associated with the HCS algorithm: improper 
adjusting of the sensitivity to the S/N ratio and inability in adapting to the HCS algorithm to a 
secondary local maximum. In this study, these problems will be corrected. Section II introduces 
using a combination of monotonous FV variations of multiple measures to form a new FV 
measure. With the proposed FV measure, an HCS algorithm with step-size adaptation is 
developed in Section III. The adequacy of the proposed measure and HCS is confirmed by 
experiment in Section IV with a microscopic LCD AF system. Finally, the conclusions of this 
study are given in Section V. 
 
 4
low sensitivity to image noise at FFR is advantageous in differentiating an FFR from a NFR by 
simple thresholding and this provides possibility for integration of multiple measures. Two 
measures for such integration are proposed. The measures possess monotonous FV variations at 
the FFR and they are the mean intensity of image and the intensity variance of sub-windowing 
images:   
fM Int =                                (5) 
2)-(
1
1
ijij
ij
VInt ffn
M ∑−=                        (6) 
where ij
ij
ij fn
f ∑= 1 .                            
Figure 4 shows a schematic of the LCD glass for focusing. The target is the circuit layer 
embedded in the LCD glass. Under coaxial lighting, the target image has higher intensity than 
that of the background as shown in Fig. 1. In the figure, z4 denotes the lens position where image 
has the maximum FV, z1 the position nearest to the target, and z8 the position farthest from the 
target. A target point will become a blur circle when image is out of focus. The farther the lens 
position is from focus, the larger the blur circle is.  
The measure of Mint is mainly determined by two mechanisms. The first mechanism is 
related with the growth of the blur circles of the target points. When image is slightly out of focus, 
most of the blur circles of target points are small and within the view as shown from Fig. 1(d) to 
Fig. 1(c). The mean intensity could increase due to the dilation of the target image. However, as 
the blur circles grow, more of the target images fall out of the view and the mean intensity drops 
until a very low level. This mechanism is independent of the direction of lens move from focus as 
shown by the measure M1 in Fig. 5. The second mechanism is related with the structure of the 
LCD glass and the lighting conditions. Since the target layer has much lower light transmittance 
than the glass layers, the captured images have lower mean intensity at lens positions between z1 
and z4 (the dark side) than between z4 and z8 (the bright side). The fact of different mean 
intensities at the two sides can be observed in Fig. 1. As the lens moves from z1 to z8, the mean 
intensity monotonously increases at the dark side but it then decreases at the bright side as more 
of the target images fall out of the view. Variation of the mean intensity under this mechanism is 
shown by the measure M2 in Fig. 5. 
The proposed measure is formed by integrating the mean intensity measure MInt and the 
variance measures, MVAcm (or, MVTen) and MVInt. A typical example of the measures of LCD images 
under microscopic views is shown in Fig. 6. In the figure, the variance measure MVAcm diminishes 
at the FFR. The measure MInt is determined by the sum of M1 and M2. The monotonous properties 
of the measure MVint is similar as that of the measure M1. However, the former measure is more 
sensitive to the growth of blur circles and image noises. That results in different characteristics of 
the two measures, especially in the intervals [z1, z2] and [z7, z8] as shown in Fig. 6. Regional 
monotonous variations of measures can be achieved by the characteristics of the measures and 
thresholding. First, the NFR and FFR are dividable by introducing a threshold to the measure 
MVAcm, say tVAcm, as shown by a horizontal dashed line in Fig. 6. Then, the NFR is divided into 
 6
regions. The gains may require proper bounds: a lower bound is designated to achieve speed and 
an upper bound to achieve robustness.  
A lower bound avoids having too small step sizes that could result from Eq. (7), improving 
the speed. An upper bound is needed to factor out the disturbance of impulse noise that could 
cause the gain g1 in Eq. (7.1) to approach infinity. Typical lower bounds for the gain g2 are 
suggested to be 0.2~0.5 since a smaller number for it is inappropriate as it could result in 
undifferentiated images in a lens move. At the NFR, a stable focusing controller would never use 
a step size larger than the width of the NFR. So, it is practical to set a fraction of the width as an 
upper bound for g2 and one third of the width is a suitable one. At the FFR, a larger step size at 
lens positions farther from focus can be used to speed up the focusing. However, too large the 
step size could also suffer from large overshoot and instability. For the stability reason, the upper 
bound for g2 at the FFR is never suggested greater than the width of the NFR. 
The direction of lens motion for the rough tuning is determined by the following rules: 
  If MVAcm,s-1 <tVAcm and ∆MInt,s-1∆MVIn,s-1 >0, then ∆zs∆zs-1∆MVInt,s-1 >0.    (8.1) 
 If MVAcm,s-1 <tVAcm, ∆zs-1∆MInt,s-1 <0 and ∆zs-1∆MVInt,s-1 >0, then ∆zs <0.   (8.2) 
    If MVAcm,s-1 < tVAcm, ∆zs-1 ∆MInt,s-1 > 0, ∆zs-1 ∆MVInt,s-1 < 0, then 
If MInt,s-1 ≧ tInt, then ∆zs < 0, otherwise ∆zs > 0.           (8.3) 
If MVAcm,s-1 ≧tVAcm and ∆zs-1∆MVAcm,s-1 > 0, then ∆zs ∆zs-1 > 0.           (8.4) 
If MVAcm,s-1 ≧tVAcm and ∆zs-1∆MVAcm,s-1 < 0, then ∆zs ∆zs-1 < 0.        (8.5) 
where s denotes an iteration index for rough tuning. 
    The above rules are developed based on the monotonous variations of measures in Table 1. 
By the rule (8.1), if MVAcm,s-1 < tVAcm and ∆MInt,s-1 ∆MVInt,s-1 > 0, then the lens position at the 
previous iteration could be at the region of z2→z3 or z6→z7. If the lens position is at z2→z3, then as a 
consequence of (8.1), we have ∆zs-1 ∆MVInt,s-1 > 0 and ∆zs > 0; the lens is to be moved away from 
the target in this current iteration. If the lens position is at z6→z7, then ∆zs-1∆MVInt,s,s-1 < 0 and ∆zs 
< 0; the lens is to be moved toward the target in this current iteration. A similar explanation holds 
for the other rules. 
To enhance the robustness of the HCS in the FFR against noise, it is proposed to check the 
changes of the measure variations during the rough tuning. Conditions of changes which are 
inconsistent with the tabulated FFR of Table 1 are summarized below:  
 ∆MInt,s-1 < 0 and ∆MVInt,s-1 < 0.                                  (9.1) 
∆zs-1∆MInt,s-1 > 0, ∆zs-1∆MVInt,s-1 < 0, and ∆zs-1(MInt,s-1 - tInt) > 0.      (9.2) 
∆zs-1∆MInt,s-1 < 0 and ∆zs-1∆MVInt,s-1 > 0.                           (9.3) 
Occurrence of a condition of inconsistency could be due to image noise or incorrect 
determination of the initial direction. If ∆MInt,s-1 < 0 and ∆MVInt,s-1 < 0, then the lens is either at z2
→z3 and moving toward target or at z6→z7 and moving away from target. If ∆zs-1∆MInt,s-1 > 0, 
∆zs-1∆MVInt,s-1 < 0, and ∆zs-1(MInt,s-1 - tInt) > 0, then the lens is either at z1→z2 and moving toward 
 8
the processing time. Similarly, the number of sub-windows was reducing from a large number 
until the repetitive accuracy of the measures MVInt and MVAcm becomes poor. Then, a fair repetitive 
accuracy determines the smallest number of sub-windows. Use of more pixels in a sub-window 
and more number of sub-windows could support a measure to against noises and adequately 
quantify image FV. However, it may require more processing time.  
Proper values for tVAcm can be 0.01 ~ 0.1 to differentiate an FFR from a NFR. In this study, 
tVAcm is set to be 0.05. A too small value of tVAcm could suffer from false focusing or slow speed of 
focusing while a too large value could induce large overshoot or instability.  
Figure 8 shows experimental results of 4 case studies. In each case, the AF test was run for 
100 times. Each AF run started from an initial lens position at an arbitrary offset from the focus 
point. The offset is random and uniformly distributed within the range of -50δ  ~ 50δ. The 
parameters and gains designated for each case study are given in Table 2. Conclusions from the 
experimental results are given below: 
(1) As evident in Case 2, compared with Case 1, Fig. 8(a) and 8(b) show that too high a 
value of the multiplier α at the NFR could result in larger overshooting, needing more 
time to accomplish the focusing. 
(2) From Fig. 8(a) and 8(c), properly giving the multiplier a higher value at the FFR will 
result in faster auto focusing. However, conditions of inconsistency will occur with a 
slightly higher probability, some of which are due to an incorrect initial direction of 
search. This demonstrates the importance of the proposed inconsistency check to correct 
this problem and achieve high speed and reliability of focusing control.   
(3) From Fig. 8(a) and 8(d), having a higher power value γ at the FFR could cause a 
significant increase of the overall AF speed. Too high a value could result in more 
occurrences of inconsistency; however, these inconsistencies can be corrected by the 
proposed inconsistency check. After the inconsistency check was implemented, it was 
observed that Case 4 had the highest speed of focusing. This once again justified the 
necessity of the inconsistency check to improve the robustness of the algorithm. 
    The time required for an AF run for Case 4 is shown in Fig. 9, which is within 0.6 ~ 1.2 sec 
for most of the runs. In general, the further the initial offset is, the more the time it takes to 
undergo at an AF run. On average, an iteration takes about 100 ms per step; roughly including 40 
ms for FPGA processing and RS 232 transmission, 25 ms for the lens motion, and 35 ms for 
computation and determination of step size and direction.     
 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
Microscopic AF under a wide range of views is studied in this paper. A new FV measure 
which is an integration of the measures of mean image intensity, sub-windowing intensity 
variance, and sub-windowing variance ACM (or Tenengrad ) is proposed. The working 
microscopic range can be divided into two major regions, the NFR and FFR, each of which is 
further subdivided based on monotonous properties shown in Fig. 6. No single measure worked 
effectively for all sub regions. Therefore in each of the sub regions, the measures that have a good 
sensitivity to the changes of lens positions are used for determination of step size and direction. 
With the proposed FV measure, a focusing algorithm including determination of initial 
direction for the HCS, rough tuning, and fine tuning is developed. The initial direction is simply 
determined by thresholding. However, this algorithm could introduce some inconsistencies 
which are corrected using the proposed conditions of the inconsistencies. Adaptation of step size 
for rough tuning is described by Eq. (7). The involved parameters and gains for the adaptation 
are assigned different values at different sub regions within the FFR and NFR to achieve high 
speed and reliability. The direction of HCS in rough tuning is determined by Eq. (8), which are 
the result based on the monotonous variations of sub regions. The step size of fine tuning is 
designated to be reduced iteratively, so the stability of HCS is always guaranteed. 
One feature of the proposed HCS algorithm involves the inconsistency check. Conditions of 
inconsistency for checking the search direction are summarized in Eq. (9). Experimental results 
showed that the inconsistency check is important to enhance the reliability of HCS. The 
feasibility of the proposed focusing algorithm is proved extensively by experiment. The design 
concept proposed in this study also holds if the working range needs to be further extended. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Y. Yoshida, S. Shinohara, H. Ikeda, K-I Tada, H. Yoshida, K-I Nishide and M. Sumi, 
Application of Semiconductor Laser Range Finder to Position Control of Lens in Auto-Focus 
Camera, IEEE International Conference on Industrial Electronics, Control and 
Instrumentation, 2357-2361 (1991). 
崑山科技大學 出差情形報告表 □支用整體獎補助款（←報告表須上傳，其餘不必）□學校經費 □其它 
請填寫教職員工編號：（10 碼，由出差報告系統取得）
請填寫表單序號：（14 碼，由出差報告系統取得） 
填寫日期 99 年 3 月 XX 日 
姓名 林穀欽 單位 機械工程系 職稱 教授 
出差事由 
(會議、研習名稱) 
前往大陸武漢參加「2010 2nd International Asia Conference on 
Informatics in Control, Automation and Robotics (CAR 2010)」 
出差期間 99 年 3 月 6 日 ～ 99 年 3 月 10 日，共計 5 日
出差地點 大陸武漢 主辦單位 中國湖北省武漢大學 
參與人員 林穀欽 
主席或貴賓
致詞摘要 
IEEE International Asia Conference on Informatics in Control, Automation and 
Robotics 誠摯的歡迎你參與，本會議多年來為教育與產業領域提供了不少論文及知
識以本屆論壇主要由 IEEE IES 發起，與會學者來自世界各地，會議期間，希望各位
優秀的技術與論文能順利發表，並能將會議上吸收各種新知識，並能再應用到這個
廣闊的產業領域。 
                                          Yanwen Wu 
                                      CAR-2010 大會主席 
會議或研習
內容概述 
「IEEE International Asia Conference on Informatics in Control, Automation and 
Robotics」是每年舉辦一次之大型國際性學術研討會，今年大會中所發表之論文種類
可概分為四大領域: Intelligent Control Systems, Optimization, Robotics, Automation, 
Signal Processing, Systems Modeling and Control 等學術性與應用性領域。 
今年 CAR-2010 國際學術會議之主辦單位是中國湖北省武漢大學，協辦是湖北教育大
學、華中師範大學、華中科技大學、Technology Application Research Association, Hong 
Kong and IEEE Industrial Electronics Society。依據大會之報告，今年 CAR-2010 國際
學術會議中所發表之論文數約七百多篇，論文內含均屬佳作及優異、且均有關
Intelligent Control Systems, Optimization, Robotics, Automation, Signal 
Processing, Systems Modeling and Control 之先進與最新之理論方法論述，大會刊
載論文內容實值國內相關學者參考。 
會議或研習
心得與建議 
心得- 
大會中所發表之論文種類繁多，且均屬近期之著作，水準且在佳作之上，本人
得能參與盛會，體會到 Intelligent Control Systems, Optimization, Robotics, Automation, 
Signal Processing, Systems Modeling and Control 等學術上進步之盛況，收益良多，本
人除了全程參與大會所安排之學術活動之外，亦在學術討論之餘，留心觀察當地社
區交通與文化建設，感受良多。 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
前往大陸武漢參加「2010 2nd International Asia Conference on Informatics 
in Control, Automation and Robotics (CAR 2010)」 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
