1 
中文摘要： 
 
功率追蹤是一種能增加功率放大器效率而不大幅增加電路複雜度的方法。只要利用一
個輸出電壓能隨功率放大器輸出功率改變的切換式電源供應器，整個功率放大器系統的平
均效率能大幅增加二到三倍。目前市面上不常見到功率放大器使用此電路的主因是積體電
路之外的被動元件過大。積體電路之外的被動元件大小一般由所希望之輸出漣波電壓來決
定。此漣波的大小和功率放大器輸出的雜散發射(spurious emission)有正相關性。此雜散
發射是由切換式電源供應器的漣波電壓和功率放大器的射頻輸入信號混波而成的。本計劃
提出以頻率跳動的技巧來減少雜散發射的大小。利用不止一個切換式電源供應器的切換頻
率，雜散發射將可減少 20logN dB，其中 N 為所使用的頻率數。此技巧亦可縮小切換式電
源供應器所使用之被動元件值，並可使功率追蹤式功率放大器在無線行動通訊上的應用大
幅增加。 
本計劃計製作一應用第二代及三第代行動電話上之切換式電源供應器。其漣波電壓在
頻域上會較寬，但峰值將較小。利用此電路所組成之功率追蹤式功率放大器，其由混波而
在功率放大器輸出端產生的雜散發射將可比使用一般切換式電源供應器之功率追蹤式功率
放大器要來得小。 
 
 
英文摘要： 
 
Power tracking is a technique to improve power amplifier efficiency with limited additional 
circuitry. By adding a power-efficient switching regulator and controlling it with respect to output 
power levels, the overall power amplifier efficiency can be easily increased by two to three times. 
The main reason for its limited use is the size of the external passive components. The value and 
size of external passive components are usually determined by the output ripple voltage of the 
switching regulator. The magnitude of the ripple voltage is directly related to the magnitude of 
the spur at the power amplifier output created by the mixing of switching regulator ripple voltage 
and the power amplifier’s radio frequency signal. The proposed research uses frequency hopping 
technique to reduce the peak magnitude of the spur. By using more than one switching frequency, 
the peak magnitude of the spur can be reduced by 20logN dB, where N is the number of 
frequencies the frequency hopping technique uses. The technique also makes it possible to reduce 
the size/value of the passive components. With smaller passive component size, the use of power 
tracking technique in power amplifier design can be greatly increased.  
The result of the proposed research is a switching regulator with switching spur that is spread 
out in the frequency domain. The mixing product at the output of the power amplifier is expected 
to have lower peak magnitude compared to a conventional power tracking power amplifier. The 
implemented circuit was verified on the 2nd generation and 3rd generation cellular communication 
standards. 
 
關鍵字：功率放大器、切換式電源供應器、無線通信 
3 
 
The research would lead to a smaller DC-DC converter for power-level tracking power 
amplifier. With a power-level tracking power amplifier, the power amplifier efficiency is 
expected to increase two to three times. Such improvement can greatly increase the talk time of 
modern cell phones. 
 
文獻探討： 
Dynamic biasing of power amplifier using fast tracking method can be divided into two 
categories. One is envelope tracking method and one is envelope elimination and restoration. 
Envelope tracking method uses a linear power amplifier and modulates the bias according to the 
instantaneous power or envelope. Work using this method has mainly been from Prof. P. Asbeck’s 
group at UC San Diego [3, 4]. Envelope elimination and restoration method uses a 
power-efficient non-linear PA instead. The PA and supply modulator operate more like a mixer 
and recreate the signal at the output of the PA. Recent demonstrations of envelope elimination 
and restoration have been from HP labs for 30 kHz NADC application [5], Prof. T. S. Horng’s 
group at National Sun Yat-sen University for 1.25 MHz CDMA2000 1X application [6], and the 
applicant when he was at Georgia Institute of Technology, where he developed one for 3.84 MHz 
W-CDMA application [7]. For all fast tracking methods, the problems have always been circuit 
complexity, reliability, and cost.  
Slow tracking method or some call power-level tracking power amplifiers were 
demonstrated by B. Sahu of Georgia Institute of Technology [2] and J. Staudinger’s group at 
Motorola, which later became Freescale Semiconductor [8, 9]. Compared to fast tracking 
methods, power-level tracking power amplifiers are rather simple, reliable, and low cost. 
However, the low switching frequency required larger-in-size passive components, which made it 
rather impractical to put in a cell phone. The applicant and J. Staudinger later co-invented a 
method to reduce the size of the passive components [10]. In reality, even after the reduction, the 
additional circuitry was as big as a conventional power amplifier and still has room for 
improvement. 
 
研究方法： 
The frequency-hopping technique is implemented by varying the switching frequency of the 
DC-DC converter, which supply the power of an RF PA. Ideally, if two switching frequencies are 
used and each frequency is used half of the time, the magnitude of the resulting spurs can be 
reduced by 6 dB. An example of the spectrum using two switching frequencies is shown in Fig. 1. 
The previous statement assumes that the two switching frequencies are close enough such that 
their attenuations from the output LC filter are approximately the same. In reality, the spur that is 
further away from the carrier should be smaller since it is attenuated more by the output filter.  
If more switching frequencies are used, the resulting spurs can be reduced even further. 
Theoretically, if N switching frequencies are used, the amount of spur reduction can be derived as 
20log(N) dB. The reduction of the magnitude of the spurs will make it possible to reduce the size 
of the passive components used in the DC-DC converter while making it easier to pass spurious 
emission requirements defined by various wireless communication standards. A time-domain 
illustration of the switching signal with varying frequency is shown in Fig. 2. For illustration 
purpose, only two clock cycles are shown in the figure. In reality, the number of clock cycles 
must be sufficient for the finite bandwidth DC-DC converter to respond. It is highly desirable to 
have a very short switching transient when changing between different switching frequencies 
since the transition may create unwanted frequency components.  
 To validate the proposed system, a power-level tracking power amplifier is then constructed. 
The constructed amplifier is first tested with a single-tone signal tested with various numbers of 
switching frequency. After the validation of the proposed system, real world communication 
signals are then used to verify the proposed architecture. In this work, an EDGE signal and a 
W-CDMA signal are used for testing. The results are finally compared with actual cellular 
communication standards to see if the output spectrum does pass the spurious emission 
requirements after using the proposed technique. 
5 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
-80
-75
-70
-65
-60
-55
-50
Number of Frequencies
M
ax
im
u
m
 
Sp
ur
 
M
ag
n
itu
de
 
(dB
c)
 
 
C=1.0 uF
C=2.2 uF
C=4.7 uF
 
Fig. 4. Comparison of worst-case spur magnitude with various output capacitor values and 
various number of switching frequencies using the frequency-hopping technique. 
 
B. W-CDMA Signal 
For this prototype implementation, the input power levels and the bias conditions, which 
included both the bias current and supply voltage, were gathered by sweeping a cellular band 
power amplifier under various conditions using a W-CDMA voice signal at 836.5 MHz. An LUT 
was derived from the swept measurement results using a 3 dB margin for the adjacent channel 
leakage ratio (ACLR). Measurements were performed using one, two, four, and eight different 
switching frequencies. Since the switching frequencies were less than half the bandwidth of the 
signal, changing the switching frequency had negligible effect on the output spectrum. For 
comparison, a look-up table was also derived by sweeping only the bias current through a power 
control pin that is widely available in commercial products. The ACLR measurements using the 
derived bias conditions and input power levels are compared in Fig. 5, where ACLR1 and 
ACLR2 are the ACLR measurement of the channel 5 MHz and 10 MHz away from the center 
frequency, respectively. Results are compared between using only the bias current adjustment and 
dynamically adjusting both the bias current and the supply voltage with a DC-DC converter.  
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
-65
-60
-55
-50
-45
-40
-35
Ouput Power (dBm)
AC
LR
 
(dB
c)
 
 
ACLR1 with dyn. bias current
ACLR1 with both
ACLR2 with dyn. bias current
ACLR2 with both
 
Fig. 5. Derived bias conditions and input power levels for various output power levels. 
 
