 2 
(二)中、英文摘要及關鍵詞	 (keywords)。	 
中文摘要	 
過去我們曾發展出以三鈣磷酸鹽加入戊二醛交聯之明膠的生物可降解性複合物，我們	 
稱之為GTG。我們用GTG製成的神經再生導管，進行了生體外與生體內的生物相容性測試並
評估其用於周邊神經修復的可行性。然而，在我們過去的研究之中，以GTG為基材的神經再
生導管使用於動物實驗中仍然會失去其管狀結構並發生塌陷的現象，致使導管中神經可生長
路徑的阻礙。此外，GTG神經再生導管在手術操作中仍然容易撕裂或破碎的情形，而使手術
操作較為困難。因此，在本研究中，我們將運用表面改質的生物陶瓷作為交聯物用以交聯明
膠分子而改善其機械性質。過去曾有研究顯示hexamethylene	 diisocyanate	 (HMDI)可以作為偶
合劑，將calcium	 hydrogenphosphate	 (CHP)或	 hydroxyapatite	 (HAP)加以表面改質。在表面改
質的反應後HMDI與CHP或HAP形成urethane鍵結，而HMDI的另一終端則會形成amine	 
group，利用這些amine	 groups可以將改質的生物陶瓷與明膠分子的carboxyl	 groups形成供價
連接。因此，本研究將以此原理利用表面HMDI改質的生物陶瓷為交聯劑來改善明交材料的
機械強度，以符合手術操作的需求。在前一階段的實驗中我們利用此方法製做神經導管薄膜
(GMCHP)，本階段的研究進行其生物相容性與PC12細胞軸突再生的測試。研究結果顯示，
GMCHP在LDH	 test中顯示其所採用的製作過程並未造成其細胞毒性，在total	 protein	 test中，
不論與control組、GG組、或是GTG組比較，GMCHP上可以有良好的PC12生長。但在MTT測
試上，GMCHP雖比GTG及GG組有較佳生物活性，卻未比control組佳。根據初步之體外生物
相容性測試結果，我們進一步將GMCHP使用於坐骨神經修復之大鼠模式以評估其應用於周
邊神經再生可行性。以GMCHP製成的導管修復坐骨神經二十四週後，我們予以評估該神經
導管之生物相容性與其在神經再生上的效果。於神經修補手術的過程中使用GMCHP導管有
較好之操作性，可以明顯縮短手術所需要的時間。大鼠對於植入之GMCHP神經導管有良好
的耐受性。然而，於植入24周的時間內，GMCHHP神經導管的降解與吸收較為有限。導管的
植入沒有誘發明顯的發炎、感染或過敏反應。於導管中段所採取之樣本顯示其中已經有神經
再生於其中。步態分析顯示以GMCHP導管修補之神經功能恢復較GTG與矽膠導管為佳。將
再生神經加以分析可以發現神經纖維密度在GMCHP導管修復時可以得到較佳的結果。因
此，我們相信GMCHP神經導管應可作為週邊神經修補之適當材料。  
 
關鍵詞：	 神經導管、生物陶瓷、交聯、週邊神經再生	 
	 
	 
 4 
	 
(三)報告內容：包括前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論（含結論與建議）…
等。	 
前言、研究目的與文獻探討	 (Introduction)	 
In clinical practice, the common surgical approach for the repair of a transected nerve was 
direct suture of the two stumps. When large gaps remain between the ends of injured peripheral 
nerve, surgical treatment consisted of suturing the two nerve stumps resulted in increased suture 
tension and consequently led to very poor clinical results(1). In the early 1970s, several studies 
demonstrated that repair of a nerve defect with an autogenous nerve segment led to better clinical 
results than suturing the two stumps under tension(2-4). Over the last 30 years, nerve autografting 
has been the first choice for repairing large nerve gaps. However, this approach has inevitable 
disadvantages such as extended surgery, loss of the donor nerve function, limited supply of donor 
nerves, and mismatched diameter and fascicular organization between lesioned nerve and graft. 
Xenografts and allografts have also been evaluated as alternatives to autografts but have poor 
successful rate and problems of immune rejection(5, 6). Although the utilization of allografts and 
immunosuppression can be an option, outcomes in nerve reconstruction with the use of allografts 
have not approached results obtained with autografts. Further, oncologic and traumatic 
considerations frequently preclude the use of allografts with immunosuppression. 
Therefore, using a non-nervous biological conduit for bridging a nerve defect and guiding 
nerve fiber regeneration toward the distal stump has been experimentally investigated since the 
nineteenth century(7-11). On the other hand, various approaches with biological conduits (such as 
arterial, venous grafts) have shown similar disadvantages of extra surgical incisions on donor sites 
and prolonged surgical time. In addition, none of the biological conduits studied to date have 
matched or exceeded the performance of nerve autografts. Fortunately, recent advances in 
neuroscience, cell culture, and biomaterials provide optimism for the development of artificial 
nerve grafts. In order to avoid the drawbacks following biological grafts, bioengineering strategies 
for the peripheral nerve injuries have focused on the combination of materials and desired 
biomolecules to develop artificial nerve guidance channels. 
Many researchers are presently focusing efforts on creating artificial nerve guidance channels 
forregenerating axons. Both synthetic and natural materials for artificial nerve guidance channels 
are attractive because their chemical and physical properties (e.g. degradation rate, mechanical 
strength) can be specifically optimized. A wide range of materials has been developed for use as 
an artificial nerve guidance channel(12-16). Of these materials, nondegradable materials such as 
silicone rubber have been widely used because of their inert and mechanical properties(17). 
However, upon completion of regeneration, these materials no longer serve any purpose and may 
become detrimental due to a chronic inflammatory response, the potential of compressing the 
nerve over time, or infection(18). Thus, a nerve guide that degrades as the nerve regenerates is 
preferred. A variety of natural-based and synthetic materials with biodegradability have been 
investigated. Synthetic materials are attractive because their chemical and physical properties (e.g. 
degradation rate, porosity, and mechanical strength) can be specifically optimized for a particular 
application. A number of different synthetic materials have been explored for use in aiding nerve 
 6 
this study, calcium hydrogenphosphate (CaHPO4, CHP) was the candidate ceramic due to its 
property of biodegradation and higher content of hydroxyl group on the surface of the crystal, 
which would be used to crosslink with the organic molecules. In addition, other studies revealed 
that HMDI could be used as a coupling agent to modify the surface of calcium 
hydrogen-phosphate. After surface modification, CHP will be grafted with HMDI molecule by a 
urethane linkage and left an amine functional group in the tail(40). The amine tail can thereafter be 
used as a functional group to graft with growth factor or Chinese herb medicine(41, 42). Under 
similar reaction scheme, the functional amine group was used in the second step chemical 
immobilization and to covalently bind with the carboxyl functional groups of gelatin molecules. 
Therefore, HMDI surface-modified CHP served as a bioceramic crosslinkers for gelatin materials 
and improved the mechanical property of gelatin composites. This newly developed material was 
characterized; the mechanical property was investigated. To evaluate the feasibility of gelatin and 
MCHP composites (GMCHP) for nerve guidance tubes, both in vitro and vivo studies were 
conducted for its biocompatibility. Animal studies using GMCHP nerve guidance tubes for the 
repair of rat sciatic nerve transection model were done. Assessments including histomorphological 
examinations, functional recovery index was performed to determine the possibility of GMCHP 
for the reconstruction of injured peripheral nerves.
 8 
	 
II. Total protein test: 	 
The protein content of cells is widely used for estimating total cellular material. The amount 
of proteins in solubilized cells can be estimated by the modified method of Lowry. The procedure 
is based on two chemical reactions. The first is the biuret reaction, in which the alkaline cupric 
tartrate reagent complexes with the peptide bonds of the protein. This is followed by the reduction 
of the Folin and Ciocalteu’s phenol reagent, which yields a blue color. Absorbance of the colored 
solution was read at a wavelength between 500 nm and 800 nm. The protein concentration was 
determined from a calibration curve. When the total amount of intracellular protein was measured, 
the result reflected the population of cultured cells. In our experiment, total protein content was 
calculated after culture PC12 cells on GMCHP materials.	 
 
	 
 
III. LDH leakage test  
Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is a stable enzyme present in the cytosol that is released upon 
cell lyses. The LDH leakage assay permits the investigation of the tested biomaterials that may 
induce alternations in cell integrity. It can be performed to measure the membrane-damaging 
effects of the tested biomaterials via the quantity of LDH in the culture medium at different time 
points. Therefore, this assay reflects the cytotoxicity of tested biomaterials. Because LDH 
catalyzed the oxidation of lactate to pyruvate with simultaneous reduction of nicotinamide adenine 
dinucleotide (NAD), the absorbance increased at 340nm. PC12 cell injury was quantitatively 
assessed by the measurement of LDH leakage. After culturing PC12 cells with the tested 
membranes, LDH activity was calculated. 
 10 
performed in a laminar flow hood under aseptic conditions. After surgery, the rats were caged 
separately in a temperature- and humidity-controlled room with 12 h light cycles. Animals were 
kept for 24 weeks post-operation to allow enough time for nerve regeneration and innervation of 
the distal plantar muscles. In all the animals the left contralateral sciatic nerve served as the 
positive control. Time for performing surgical repair of the sciatic nerve was recorded for 
comparison among each group. 
 
II. Sciatic function index 
After 6, 12 and 24 weeks, the animals were evaluated for the recovery of motor function using 
walking tract analysis. The animal was placed in a walking pathway ending in a darkened cage. 
All rats were first allowed several conditioning trials, thereafter they walked steadily to the 
darkened cage. White paper cut to the appropriate dimensions was placed on the bottom of the 
tract. The rat’s hind feet were dipped with Indian ink, and the animals were permitted to walk 
down the tract, leaving their hind footprints on the paper. Several measurements were taken from 
the footprints: (1) distance from the heel to the third toe, the print length (PL); (2) distance from 
the first to the fifth toe, the toe spread (TS); and (3) distance from the second to the fourth toe, the 
intermediary toe spread (ITS). As self-mutilation developed in some experimental animals, the 
measurement was evaluated by the distance between the most distal ends of toes. All three 
measurements were taken from the experimental (E) and normal (N) sides. Three factors 
contributed to the sciatic function index were calculated as follows: (1) print length factor 
(PLF)=(EPL–NPL)/NPL; (2) toe spread factor (TSF)=(ETS–NTS)/NTS; (3) intermediary toe 
spread factor (ITF)=(EIT–NIT)/NIT. These factors were then incorporated into the 
Bain-Mackinnon-Hunter sciatic function index-formula (SFI):  
 
SFI = –38.3 × PLF+ 109.5 × TSF + 13.3 × ITF – 8.8. 
 
 An SFI of 0 is normal. An SFI of –100 indicates total impairment. SFI was used in this study 
as a quantitative assessment of hind limb function after sciatic nerve repair. 
 
III. Histomorphometric assessment 
Immediately after the recording of compound muscle action potential and the walking tract 
analysis, the conduits implanted were removed upon sacrifice of all the rats 24 weeks after surgery. 
The sciatic nerves together with the conduits were re-exposed and carefully isolated from the 
surrounding tissue. Macrographs of the nerve guidance conduits including inflammation, foreign 
body response, fibrous tissue encapsulation, and appearance of degradation were observed. Then, 
the nerve segment was cut 4 mm proximal to the conduit implantation and 4 mm distal along with 
the tibial and peroneal nerve branches. Sciatic nerve sections were taken from the middle regions 
of the implanted nerve guidance conduits. After fixation, the tissue was then cut to 4-µm thickness 
by using microtome. For in vivo biocompatibility examination, some samples were stained with 
basic stain of haematoxylin-eosin.  All tissue samples were observed under optical microscope. 
 12 
結果與討論	 
I. MTT assay 
MTT assay involves a reduction reaction that reduces MTT reagent to formazan when 
incubated with viable cells. Thus, the level of the reduction of MTT into formazan can reflect the 
level of cell metabolism. Fig. 1 shows the time course of formazan accumulation for each group 
after 1, 3, 7 days culture. The samples in control group showed higher absorbance than GMCHP 
group. Compared with the GTG and GG groups, the PC12 cell cultured in the GMCHP group 
showed even a higher absorbance and the difference reached a significant level after 7 days.  
	 
Fig.	 1.	 The	 MTT-tetrazolium	 assay	 
	 
II. Total protein analysis 
Total protein content (Fig. 2) of cultures grown in all groups provide similar information as 
observed for the MTT reduction. From day 1 through day 7, there is a gradual increase in protein 
content for PC12 cells cultured in control, GG, GTG, and GMCHP groups. In GG and GTG 
groups, total protein levels were lower than control and GMCHP groups. Furthermore, total 
protein in GMCHP was higher than control group. However, the difference did not reach a 
statistically significant level until day 7. 
 14 
	 
Fig.	 4	 Neurite	 outgrowth	 assay	 
	 
V. Surgical time for sciatic nerve repair 
 Fig. 5 showed the surgical time required for the procedures of sciatic nerve repair. In silicone 
group, the time required was significantly shorter. For GMCHP group, the mean surgical time was 
about 13.4 minutes. The shorter time for silicone and GMCHP groups might imply the easier 
surgical manipulation of the nerve guidance channels. 
 
Fig. 5. Surgical time required for sciatic nerve repair 
	 
VI. Gross findings and histomorphometric assessment  
After 24 weeks, the implanted conduits were harvested. There was no gross infection around 
the conduits in all three groups. The GMCHP conduits remained their circular structure of lumen 
(Fig. 6). In the GTG group, collapse of the conduits could be found. Degradation of the GTG 
conduits was noticed. However, in the GMCHP group, the GMCHP materials showed less 
degradation (Fig. 7).  
 
 16 
 
Fig. 8. Under microscopic examinations, axons with myelination could be noticed in the 
regenerated nerves 
	 
VII. Evaluation of sciatic function 
The SFI (sciatic function index) versus time is plotted in Fig. 9. In all three groups, there was 
a trend of progressive improvement in sciatic function index. 6 weeks after sciatic nerve repair, 
there was no significant difference among three groups. At 12th week, both GTG group and 
GMCHP groups showed better SFI than silicone group. In GMCHP group, SFI was lower than the 
GTG group at 12th week. However, the difference between GTG and GMCHP group was not 
significant. 24 weeks after nerve repair, GMCHP group showed better SFI than GTG and silicone 
groups. At 24th week, GTG group had a similar SFI as silicone group. This might attribute to the 
collapse of GTG guidance tubes that might exert detrimental effect on nerve regeneration. In 
silicone group, the lower SFI was possibly caused by its impermeability to nutrients and 
metabolites.  
	 
 18 
	 
Fig. 11. Number of axons per unit area 
	 
	 
Fig. 12. Nerve fiber density 
	 
	 
Fig. 13. Average axon area 
 20 
References:	 
	 
1.	 Naff	 NJ,	 Ecklund	 JM.	 History	 of	 peripheral	 nerve	 surgery	 techniques.	 Neurosurg	 Clin	 N	 
Am.12:197-209,	 x.	 2001.	 
2.	 Millesi	 H,	 Meissl	 G,	 Berger	 A.	 The	 interfascicular	 nerve-grafting	 of	 the	 median	 and	 ulnar	 
nerves.	 J	 Bone	 Joint	 Surg	 Am.54:727-50.	 1972.	 
3.	 Millesi	 H,	 Meissl	 G,	 Berger	 A.	 Further	 experience	 with	 interfascicular	 grafting	 of	 the	 median,	 
ulnar,	 and	 radial	 nerves.	 J	 Bone	 Joint	 Surg	 Am.58:209-18.	 1976.	 
4.	 Millesi	 H.	 Interfascicular	 nerve	 grafting.	 Orthop	 Clin	 North	 Am.12:287-301.	 1981.	 
5.	 Evans	 PJ,	 Mackinnon	 SE,	 Levi	 AD,	 Wade	 JA,	 Hunter	 DA,	 Nakao	 Y,	 et	 al.	 Cold	 preserved	 
nerve	 allografts:	 changes	 in	 basement	 membrane,	 viability,	 immunogenicity,	 and	 regeneration.	 
Muscle	 Nerve.21:1507-22.	 1998.	 
6.	 Evans	 PJ,	 Midha	 R,	 Mackinnon	 SE.	 The	 peripheral	 nerve	 allograft:	 a	 comprehensive	 review	 of	 
regeneration	 and	 neuroimmunology.	 Prog	 Neurobiol.43:187-233.	 1994.	 
7.	 J	 IJ-P,	 Jansen	 K,	 Gramsbergen	 A,	 Meek	 MF.	 Transection	 of	 peripheral	 nerves,	 bridging	 
strategies	 and	 effect	 evaluation.	 Biomaterials.25:1583-92.	 2004.	 
8.	 Brunelli	 GA,	 Vigasio	 A,	 Brunelli	 GR.	 Different	 conduits	 in	 peripheral	 nerve	 surgery.	 
Microsurgery.15:176-8.	 1994.	 
9.	 Suematsu	 N.	 Tubulation	 for	 peripheral	 nerve	 gap:	 its	 history	 and	 possibility.	 
Microsurgery.10:71-4.	 1989.	 
10.	 Schmidt	 CE,	 Leach	 JB.	 Neural	 tissue	 engineering:	 strategies	 for	 repair	 and	 regeneration.	 Annu	 
Rev	 Biomed	 Eng.5:293-347.	 2003.	 
11.	 Fields	 RD,	 Le	 Beau	 JM,	 Longo	 FM,	 Ellisman	 MH.	 Nerve	 regeneration	 through	 artificial	 
tubular	 implants.	 Prog	 Neurobiol.33:87-134.	 1989.	 
12.	 Nicoli	 Aldini	 N,	 Perego	 G,	 Cella	 GD,	 Maltarello	 MC,	 Fini	 M,	 Rocca	 M,	 et	 al.	 Effectiveness	 of	 
a	 bioabsorbable	 conduit	 in	 the	 repair	 of	 peripheral	 nerves.	 Biomaterials.17:959-62.	 1996.	 
13.	 Archibald	 SJ,	 Krarup	 C,	 Shefner	 J,	 Li	 ST,	 Madison	 RD.	 A	 collagen-based	 nerve	 guide	 conduit	 
for	 peripheral	 nerve	 repair:	 an	 electrophysiological	 study	 of	 nerve	 regeneration	 in	 rodents	 and	 
nonhuman	 primates.	 J	 Comp	 Neurol.306:685-96.	 1991.	 
14.	 Archibald	 SJ,	 Shefner	 J,	 Krarup	 C,	 Madison	 RD.	 Monkey	 median	 nerve	 repaired	 by	 nerve	 
graft	 or	 collagen	 nerve	 guide	 tube.	 J	 Neurosci.15:4109-23.	 1995.	 
15.	 Robinson	 PH,	 van	 der	 Lei	 B,	 Hoppen	 HJ,	 Leenslag	 JW,	 Pennings	 AJ,	 Nieuwenhuis	 P.	 Nerve	 
regeneration	 through	 a	 two-ply	 biodegradable	 nerve	 guide	 in	 the	 rat	 and	 the	 influence	 of	 
ACTH4-9	 nerve	 growth	 factor.	 Microsurgery.12:412-9.	 1991.	 
16.	 Tountas	 CP,	 Bergman	 RA,	 Lewis	 TW,	 Stone	 HE,	 Pyrek	 JD,	 Mendenhall	 HV.	 A	 comparison	 of	 
peripheral	 nerve	 repair	 using	 an	 absorbable	 tubulization	 device	 and	 conventional	 suture	 in	 
primates.	 J	 Appl	 Biomater.4:261-8.	 1993.	 
17.	 Midgley	 RD,	 Woolhouse	 FM.	 Silicone	 rubber	 sheathing	 as	 an	 adjunct	 to	 neural	 anastomosis.	 
Surg	 Clin	 North	 Am.48:1149-54.	 1968.	 
18.	 Merle	 M,	 Dellon	 AL,	 Campbell	 JN,	 Chang	 PS.	 Complications	 from	 silicon-polymer	 intubulation	 
of	 nerves.	 Microsurgery.10:130-3.	 1989.	 
 22 
hydroxyapatite	 particles.	 J	 Biomed	 Mater	 Res.40:358-64.	 1998.	 
37.	 Liu	 Q,	 de	 Wijn	 JR,	 van	 Blitterswijk	 CA.	 Composite	 biomaterials	 with	 chemical	 bonding	 
between	 hydroxyapatite	 filler	 particles	 and	 PEG/PBT	 copolymer	 matrix.	 J	 Biomed	 Mater	 
Res.40:490-7.	 1998.	 
38.	 Liu	 Q,	 de	 Wijn	 JR,	 van	 Blitterswijk	 CA.	 Nano-apatite/polymer	 composites:	 mechanical	 and	 
physicochemical	 characteristics.	 Biomaterials.18:1263-70.	 1997.	 
39.	 Liu	 Q,	 de	 Wijn	 JR,	 van	 Blitterswijk	 CA.	 Covalent	 bonding	 of	 PMMA,	 PBMA,	 and	 
poly(HEMA)to	 hydroxyapatite	 particles.	 J	 Biomed	 Mater	 Res.40:257-63.	 1998.	 
40.	 Dong	 GC,	 Sun	 JS,	 Yao	 CH,	 Jiang	 GJ,	 Huang	 CW,	 Lin	 FH.	 A	 study	 on	 grafting	 and	 
characterization	 of	 HMDI-modified	 calcium	 hydrogenphosphate.	 Biomaterials.22:3179-89.	 2001.	 
41.	 Lin	 FH,	 Dong	 GC,	 Chen	 KS,	 Jiang	 GJ,	 Huang	 CW,	 Sun	 JS.	 Immobilization	 of	 Chinese	 herbal	 
medicine	 onto	 the	 surface-modified	 calcium	 hydrogenphosphate.	 Biomaterials.24:2413-22.	 2003.	 
42.	 Sun	 JS,	 Dong	 GC,	 Lin	 CY,	 Sheu	 SY,	 Lin	 FH,	 Chen	 LT,	 et	 al.	 The	 effect	 of	 Gu-Sui-Bu	 (Drynaria	 
fortunei	 J.	 Sm)	 immobilized	 modified	 calcium	 hydrogenphosphate	 on	 bone	 cell	 activities.	 
Biomaterials.24:873-82.	 2003.	 
	 
	 
 2 
注意的是國外目前極為積極的研究方向中對於腦神經血管疾病的細胞治療的重視，
雖然道目前為止，臨床成效仍然相當有限，但隨著相關組織工程與幹細胞研究的進
展，此一領域顯然是值得投注研究心力的項目。另外關於週邊神經修復的進展雖然
有限，但是仍有少數研究學者使用物理性刺激來促進神經再生的研究或許值得注意。	 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)	 
無	 
四、建議	 
隨著國內人口年齡的老化，腦血管疾病的問題與相關病患的照顧將越來越重要。對
於這些疾病除了採取傳統治療之外，由細胞治療或是組織工程的角度加以研究應有
機會提供一些新的治療方向。	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳敏弘 計畫編號：96-2221-E-010-011-MY3 
計畫名稱：以表面改質生物陶瓷為交聯劑之明膠神經再生導管之研發 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
