可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
V 可申請專利  V 可技術移轉                                      日期：96 年 11 月 12 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：智慧校園監控系統 
計畫主持人：郭景明         
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－011－218－ 
學門領域：影像處理 
技術/創作名稱 智慧校園監控系統 
發明人/創作人 郭景明 
技術說明 
中文：本研究利用遞迴式自我學習程序及混成式二值化技術達成車
牌定位及字元切割之高成功率，技術裏結合色階調諧法，外觀比判
斷及霍夫轉換，以解決影像中之對比問題、拍攝之旋轉問題及車牌
髒污問題，經過實驗證明，本技術之成功率可超越國際上許多現有
的技術。 
 
關鍵詞: 車牌辨識系統、車牌定位、字元切割、字元辨識 
英文：License Plate Localization (LPL) and Character Segmentation 
(CS) play key roles in License Plate Recognition System (LPRS). In 
this study, we dedicate ourselves in these two issues. In LPL, the 
histogram equalization is employed to solve the low contrast and 
dynamic range problem; the texture properties, e.g., aspect ratio, and 
color similarity are used to locate the License Plate (LP); the Hough 
transform is adopted to correct the rotation problem. In CS, the 
hybrid-binarization technique is proposed to effectively segment the 
characters in the dirt LP. The feedback self-learning procedure is also 
employed to adjust the parameters in the system. As documented in the 
experiments, good localization and segmentation results are achieved 
with the proposed algorithms. 
 
Key Words: license plate recognition system, plate localization, 
character segmentation, character recognition. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
停車場暨大門監控管理系統，警方查緝贓車系統，道路管控系統，
電子行車收費系統 
技術特點 
1. 利用遞迴式自我學習程可達到準確之車牌定位效果。 
2. 利用混成式二值化可達到抵抗影像低對比及髒污之問題。 
3. 結果霍夫轉換技術可解決攝像時旋轉之問題。 
附件二 
中文摘要 
本研究利用遞迴式自我學習程序及混成式二值
化技術達成車牌定位及字元切割之高成功率，
技術裏結合色階調諧法，外觀比判斷及霍夫轉
換，以解決影像中之對比問題、拍攝之旋轉問
題及車牌髒污問題，經過實驗證明，本技術之
成功率可超越國際上許多現有的技術。 
 
關鍵詞: 車牌辨識系統、車牌定位、字元切割、
字元辨識 
 
Abstract-License Plate Localization (LPL) and Character 
Segmentation (CS) play key roles in License Plate Recognition 
System (LPRS). In this study, we dedicate ourselves in these 
two issues. In LPL, the histogram equalization is employed to 
solve the low contrast and dynamic range problem; the texture 
properties, e.g., aspect ratio, and color similarity are used to 
locate the License Plate (LP); the Hough transform is adopted 
to correct the rotation problem. In CS, the hybrid-binarization 
technique is proposed to effectively segment the characters in 
the dirt LP. The feedback self-learning procedure is also 
employed to adjust the parameters in the system. As 
documented in the experiments, good localization and 
segmentation results are achieved with the proposed 
algorithms. 
Index terms: license plate recognition system, plate localization, 
character segmentation, character recognition. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
License plate recognition system is the product of modern 
life, which can be separated into three parts: (i) detecting the 
location of the LP, namely LPL, (ii) segmenting the 
characters inside the LP, namely CS, and (iii) recognizing 
the meaning of the characters, namely Character 
Recognition (CR). 
Many state-of-the-art methods have been addressed in 
the progress of the LPRS. Some methods have also been 
marketed. However, most schemes are restricted by some 
practical restrictions, such as recognition time, lighting 
condition, unstable environment, image resolution, and etc. 
To develop a robust system to adapt the various issues is 
challenge. 
Regarding the LPL, in general, the literatures can be 
separated into two parts: (i) based on the textures of the LP 
and (ii) based on the colors of the LP. The methods are 
discussed below. 
The methods based on the textures mainly exploited the 
aspect ratio [2], [9], [12], the contrast variations [10], the 
uniform distribution of the characters [4], the ratio between 
background area and character area [6], [8]. Among these, 
the approaches in [2] and [12] are applied to the LPRS in 
Saudi Arabia. The main idea is to process the image with the 
grayscale image, and employs the Sobel edge detection, 
projection, and seed-filling algorithm [7] to remove the 
regions unrelated to the LP. The result is then  
 
filtered by aspect ratio and object connections. However, the 
method is not capable of dealing with the complex 
environment and rotation. Nonetheless, the rotation problem 
can be eased by considering the rotation extent [9]. Hsieh et 
al., [4] employed the Wavelet transform to decompose the 
image into HH, HL, LH, and LL four bands. The searching 
range of the LP is restricted according to the image property 
in LH band in order to improve the processing speed. The 
projection method, edge density, and aspect ratio are then 
exploited to locate the LP. This approach is proven to be 
effective in withstanding the variation of the lighting, 
contrast, rotation, and is also capable of locating multiple 
plates. Wu et al., [8] adopted the morphological and 
projection to localize the LP. The method exploited the ratio 
between background area and character area and used the 
opening operation to blur the image. The processed image is 
compared to the original image. The discrepancy part is then 
processed with the projection method in order to locate the 
LP. The advantage of this method is the high efficiency, 
while the disadvantage is easily undergone the interference 
of the lighting effect. 
The methods based on the colors are discussed as 
follows. Zhang and Xiangjian [6] adopted mean shift to blur 
the image, and then localized the LP via applying 
Mahalanobis distance linear classifier to classify the 
candidate regions according to the rectangularity, aspect 
ratio, and edge density. Syed and Sarfraz [1] adopted the 
Vector angle measure [3] to retrieve the color edge, and then 
enhanced the edge. The object connection is applied to the 
classified regions separated by the edges and further locates 
the LP. Chang et al., [5] converted the RGB color space to 
HSI model and then performed the blurring processing to 
reduce the interference of the noise. The clustered edge 
property of the LP is exploited to cooperate with the HSI 
color spaces to locate the LP. The advantage of this method 
is capable of withstanding the interference of the 
environment. 
Yang et al., [11] simultaneously adopted textures and 
colors to locate the LP, where the color collocation of the 
plate’s background, characters, and the plate’s structure are 
exploited. The plate’s region is then binarized, segmented 
and recognized. The advantage is the high efficiency and 
good localization result. The disadvantage is vulnerable in 
dealing with low contrast or poor color. 
In this study, a LPL method and a CS method are 
presented to overcome the issues raised in the literatures, 
which include complex environment, rotation, lighting, and 
low contrast. Briefly, the histogram equalization [13] is 
employed to solve the lighting and contrast problem. The 
texture property, aspect ratio, and color similarity are used to 
address the complex environment issue. The Hough 
transform is adopted to correct the rotation problem. 
Moreover, the feedback self-learning strategy is also 
employed to adaptively adjust the parameters. Finally, the 
proposed hybrid-binarization is applied to solve the dirt 
problem in CS. 
The rest of the study is organized as follows. Section 2 
introduces the license plate localization. The character 
segmentation is presented in Section 3. Section 4 describes a 
series of experiments that were performed to test the 
performance of the algorithm. Conclusions are drawn in 
Section 5.  
2. LICENSE PLATE LOCALIZATION (LPL) 
The main difficulty of the LPL is the environment. For 
example, the outdoor parking spaces have at least one more 
problem than indoor parking spaces for the influence by the 
sunlight. Hence, the performance of most recognition 
systems varies a lot according to the energy of the sunlight. 
For this, in this study, the histogram equalization is adopted 
to reduce the sunlight or low contrast problems. The other 
solution is the well-known contrast stretching, which is also 
capable of improving low dynamic range image. However, it 
performs poor in back-lighted conditions, which can be 
totally solved with the histogram equalization. 
The typical LP in Taiwan has two English letters and 
four Arabic numerals. The configurations of different cars 
20/)     ( imagereducedrangetheofwidthCD = .         ( 9 ) 
Two white pixels in the same horizontal line of the 
E-map with distance lower than CD are connected. Hence, 
many objects can be obtained with this method. These 
regions are then filtered according to the aspect ratio and 
area of the LP as described below. 
The aspect ratio of LP is generally around 2.8~4.8. On 
the other hand, according to our experiments, the extracted 
LP of size lower than 22x50=1100 pixels is difficult to be 
recognized. Hence, we reserved the objects meet the aspect 
ratio and with area higher than 1100 pixels. These reserved 
objects are named candidate objects. 
Each horizontal line of a candidate object is checked if 
the black to white switched number is between 6~14. The 
object with highest percentage (more than 80% horizontal 
lines) with this feature is determined as the LP. Otherwise, 
the original image is processed with median filter or 
histogram and the method described in this sub-section is 
applied again. This method, called feedback self-learning, is 
an important feature in the proposed algorithm. In this stage, 
the LP is roughly detected via textures of characters. 
3. CHARACTER SEGMENTATION (CS) 
In this procedure, the LP is assumed to be located by the 
methods described above. The CS is followed step by step as 
introduced below to separate each character in the LP for 
final recognition.  
The procedure of CS can be divided into the following 
steps: (i) correcting the rotation, (ii) locating the positions of 
the characters, (iii) separating the characters and background 
with the proposed hybrid-binarization. The details are given 
as follows. 
 
3.1. Rotation correction 
The performance of CS is mainly influenced by the two 
factors, rotation and dirt. The rotation problem can be solved 
with the Hough transform as introduced below, and the dirt 
problem is solved with the hybrid-binarization as introduced 
in Section 3.2.  
The S and I-maps described above are employed to 
determine the full region of the LP. First, the located region 
is expanded by (height of LP)/2 in vertical orientation, and 
(width of LP)/10 in horizontal orientation in order to 
ascertain including the edge of LP. Since only black and 
white two colors are in the LP, the corresponding S-map is 
with the lowest value compared to other regions. Conversely, 
the LP in I-map is dominated by white color due to the fact 
that the background generally has larger area than characters. 
The background part can be retrieved from the overlap part 
around the peak value ( 25± ) of the histogram of S and 
I-maps. The Sobel operation is then applied again to the 
background to address the contour of the LP. The pixels in 
the skeleton of the contour are processed with the Hough 
transform. Herein, the skeleton is in x-y spatial domain, 
which has the information of features and positions. The 
Hough transform result, which associates to a-b domain, is a 
good observed position for determining the slope of an 
object. The transformation is conducted with Eq. 10 as 
below 
baxy += ,                                   (10) 
and hence 
yxab +−= ,                               (11) 
where the variable a denotes the slope and b denotes the 
interception. Each point in x-y domain represents a straight 
line in a-b domain. Since the upper and lower boundaries of 
the LP are the two longest lines in x-y domain, the two most 
overlapped points in a-b domain represent the two longest 
LP boundaries. The corresponding angles of the two most 
overlapped points may discrepant slightly to each other. 
Hence, more accurate rotation angle of the LP can be 
determined by the average of the two most overlapped 
points by the lines in a-b domain. An example is illustrated 
in Fig. 7, where the center part of 7(a) is the region retrieved 
by S and I-maps. Figure 7(b) shows the skeleton of 
background part. The two red circles in Fig. 7(c) indicate the 
two most overlapped points in a-b domain. The two red lines 
in Fig. 7(d) are obtained by the two points in a-b domain, 
and the average slope of the two red lines is used to correct 
the rotation problem. The corrected result is shown in Fig. 
7(e). The corrected LP is then normalized to 60x150 for 
further binarization processing. 
 
3.2. Hybrid-binarization technique 
The dirt generally causes the fail in binarization, object 
connection, or in determining the size of an object. 
Sometimes the dirt has similar properties as the characters in 
LP. The global binarization (threshold with the average 
value) performs poor in these cases as shown in Fig. 10(f). 
For this, the hybrid-binarization method is proposed as 
introduced below, and the architecture of the 
hybrid-binarization method is depicted in Fig. 8. 
The average value of the LP is calculated and defined 
as   
ILIW
gigif
G iM ×
×
=
∑
=
255
0
1
)(
.                          (12) 
The histogram peak on the left hand side of  1MG  is 
noted as maxLG , and the peak on the right hand side of 1MG  
is noted as maxHG . The first valley on the right hand side of 
maxLG  is noted as minLG , and the first valley on the left hand 
side of maxHG  is noted as minHG . The average value of 
minLG  and minHG  is noted as 2MG , which is the new 
threshold. An example is demonstrated in Fig. 9. The 
binarized result processed with 2MG  is shown in Fig. 10(g). 
The reason behind using 2MG  as the new threshold is to 
solve the problems of dark background or light characters. 
However, the dirt may appear in some local regions. Hence, 
we further refine the method described above to address the 
local dirt problem as introduced below. 
The obtained result processed with the method 
described above is divided into non-overlapped blocks of 
size 10x10, which is proven to be with the best segmented 
rate as shown in Fig. 11. The average of a block is noted as 
3MG . The average of the pixels with values lower than 3MG  
is noted as avgL , and the average of the pixels with values 
higher than 3MG  is noted as avgH . The new threshold is 
defined as ( ) 2/4 avgavgM LHG += .                        (13) 
Then we check if 3MG = 4MG , if yes, then 4MG  is the 
new threshold for binarizing the block; otherwise, the above 
procedure described in this paragraph is repeated. The 
binarized result is shown in Fig. 10(h). The local dirt is 
removed as desired. However, the block-wise method is too 
sensitive, which leads to scattered result. Hence, the 
following hybrid-binarization method is proposed to solve 
the problem. 
The LP has been normalized to 60x150 after rotation 
correction procedure. The LP processed with the proposed 
method described above is further scanned from top to 
 
Fig. 2. Architecture of plate localization. 
 
 
Fig. 3. Search range reduction. 
 
 
(a) 
 
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
1 51 101 151 201 251
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
1 51 101 151 201 251
(d) 
 
(e) 
 
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
1 51 101 151 201 251
(f) 
Fig. 4. Performance comparisons between contrast stretching and histogram 
equalization. (a) Original image. (b) Histogram of (a). (c) Contrast 
stretching result of (a). (d) Histogram of (c). (e) Histogram equalization 
result of (a). (f) Histogram of (e). 
 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
1 2 3 4 5
HGA number
lo
ca
te
d 
ra
te
3x3
5x5
7x7
 
Fig. 5. Located rate vs. HGA number and median filter size. 
 
  
(a)                                                      (b) 
Fig. 6. Example of characters crossed by a horizontal line. (a) 6 black to 
white switched number. (b) 14 black to white switched number. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) (d) 
 
(e) 
Fig. 7. Rotation correction with Hough transform. (a) Image matched SI 
map (b) Skeleton of Sobel edge. (c) x-y to a-b. (d) a-b to x-y. (e) corrected 
result. 
Color image 
Search range reducing 
Color histogram 
HSI model conversion 
Non-plate region filtering 
Determination of candidate regions 
Median filter 
Output plate image 
Edge detection 
Features match? 
Preprocessing 
Localization 
3-map retrieving 
Poor contrast? 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
No candidate 
Character Segmentation 
Pr
oc
ed
ur
es
 
Normal 
binarization 
)(−+  0 
)(÷×  0 
Find the 
boundaries 
)(−+  PW×PL×4+PL×2 
)(÷×  0 
Hybrid-binarizatio
n 
)(−+  PW×PL×3+4+PW×PL×10×10×3 
)(÷×  PW×PL×3+2 
Object connection 
conversion 
)(−+  PW×PL×4+Num. of Obj.×PW×PL 
)(÷×  0 
Non-character 
filtering 
)(−+  Num. of Obj.×2 
)(÷×  0 
Character 
segmentation 
)(−+  Num. of Obj.×8+PW 
)(÷×  Num. of Obj.×8 
Average execution 
time 0.062 seconds 
(b) 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95－2221－E－011－218 
計畫名稱 智慧校園監控系統 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
郭景明 
國立台灣科技大學電機系助理教授 
會議時間地點 2006 年 10 月 8~11 日，地點:美國亞特蘭大 
會議名稱 IEEE International Conference of Image Processing 
發表論文題目 
1. J. M. Guo, “A complete printer model in error-diffused halftoning,” IEEE 
International Conference on Image Processing, GA, U.S.A. Oct. 2006. 
2. J. M. Guo and J. H. Chen, “High Efficiency Digital Halftoning with 
Two-Element Error Kernel,” IEEE International Conference on Image 
Processing, GA, U.S.A. Oct. 2006. 
 
一、參加會議經過 
IEEE ICIP研討會為國際上影像處理方面最大的交流技術平台，本次參加研究討除了
參與本身發表論文的場次外，也參加了許多其他個人有興趣的主題，除了吸收最新發展
技術外，也結識許多國際上知名的學者，對於未來的國際合作奠立了基礎，並且也藉由
參與本研討會讓國際上的學者瞭解台灣在這方面的技術發展，也間接提升少許的國際知
名度。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
本次參與 IEEE ICIP研討會發現會議在本主題上多了許多 sessions, 裏面不乏有些人
所帶領的團隊在這個領域已有多年的經驗，而且也有相當不錯的成果，本人也與這些學
者有技術上的交流，但關鍵的技術問題，仍有待回國後慢慢消化。大體而言，這次的研
討會參與相當重要，不僅瞭解國際上的學者在這個議題上的態度與發展，也得到了不少
新的啟發。 
 
本次個人所發表之論文摘要分別如下: 
1. J. M. Guo, “A complete printer model in error-diffused halftoning,” IEEE International 
Conference on Image Processing, GA, U.S.A. Oct. 2006. 
 
Generally speaking, the researches in model-based halftoning can be divided into error-diffusion based and iteration based 
methods. In this study, we propose a modified printer model to eliminate the damage from dot gain effect in printed halftone 
images. The proposed printer model cooperates with error diffusion and totally solves the dot gain problem in just one 
processing pass for all kinds of printed dot radii. Moreover, the modified printed image inherently needs fewer printed dots 
than the image obtained by traditional halftone method. With this modified printer model, it also offers an additional benefit 
