 2
techniques will combine with the Multiple 
Description Vector Quantization (MDVQ) 
and the Multiple Description Transform 
Coding (MDTC) for reliable watermarking 
communication. By utilizing the 
multi-channel communication 
characteristics in MDVQ or MDTC, the loss 
of the watermark can be recovered. By 
applying this concept, the new digital 
watermarking can be created by the 
proposed multi-channel model. 
     
We also apply the optimization techniques 
for the digital watermarking based on the 
multi-channel model so as to improve both 
the quality of the watermarked image and 
the robustness. In this project, we develop a 
new research issue for watermarking on the 
multi-channel communication system. 
 
Keywords : Information Hiding、Digital 
Watermarkin, Multiple Description 
Vector Quantization, Multiple 
Description Transform Coding 
 
二、 緣由與目的 
Digital watermarking is one of the useful 
solutions for copyright protection. It embeds 
secret information into digital contents to 
protect intellectual properties. There might 
be no or little perceptible differences 
between the original media content and the 
watermarked one. After transmitting the 
watermarked media via the Internet or the 
mobile channels, the embedded watermarks 
can later be extracted or detected from the 
watermarked multimedia and/or the secret 
keys for authentication or identification. 
During transmission or delivery, the 
watermarked media may experience some 
intentional or unintentional processing on 
the watermarked media, called attacks. 
Most watermarking researches concentrated 
on robust and imperceptible watermarking. 
In this project, we focus the multimedia 
formats on digital images. Among the 
watermarking researches in literature, vector 
quantization (VQ) based watermarking [1-6] 
is a newly developed branch that can be 
further explored for researches and 
applications. In spite of the conventional 
viewpoints to apply intentional attacks on 
watermarked media, the error induced 
during the transmission of watermarked 
contents is another typical issue that needs 
to be considered. Therefore, we propose an 
innovative algorithm concentrating on 
vector quantization based image 
watermarking, suitable for error-resilient 
transmission over noisy channels in this 
paper. By incorporating watermarking 
algorithm with multiple description coding 
(MDC), our proposed schemes can 
efficiently overcome channel impairments 
while retaining the capability for copyright 
protection. By the way, we also applied the 
related techniques to hide the secrete 
information based on the multiple 
description transform coding. 
MDC is an error resilient coding technique 
that uses diversity to overcome channel 
impairments such that a decoder, which 
receives an arbitrary subset of the channels, 
may re-produce a useful reconstruction. 
Information-theoretic issues of MDC have 
been studied extensively since early eighties. 
 4
and )2(Xˆ  with somewhat higher side 
distortions. 
 
 
Fig. 2 The structure for MDVQ with two 
descriptions. 
 
It is easy and straightforward to extend 
MDSQ to MDVQ. However, the index 
assignment of MDVQ becomes more 
difficult than MDSQ. Fig. 2 demonstrates 
the structure with two descriptions. Here the 
input 
kX  denotes the small block for VQ 
operation. Again, the reconstruction )0(ˆ
kX  
from the central decoder has less distortion 
than that from each of the side decoder, )1(ˆ
kX  
or )2(ˆ
kX . In this paper, we follow the MDSQ 
in [7] and MDVQ algorithm in [8], and 
devise a robust watermarking algorithm 
suitable for both error resilient transmission 
and copyright protection. 
 
三、 結果與討論 
We demonstrate the structure of our 
watermarking system with MDVQ in Fig. 3, 
by introducing the watermark embedding 
and extraction components into Fig. 2, 
hence modifying the MDVQ algorithm and 
index assignment process in 7 and 8. Our 
watermarking structure can be divided into 
three parts: (i) MD encoder with watermark 
embedding, (ii) multiple channels for 
transmission, and (iii) MD decoder with 
watermark extraction. And our goal is to 
focus on using MDVQ to incorporate with 
robust watermarking techniques. Our 
scheme provides both the error-resilient 
transmission of watermarked image over 
different channels with independent 
breakdown probabilities, and the capability 
for copyright protection. 
 
 
Fig. 3 The structure for MDVQ-based 
watermarking with two descriptions. 
 
Let the input image be X  with size NM × . 
In the left part of Fig. 3, we perform the VQ 
operation first 錯誤! 找不到參照來源。 to 
train the codebook for X , and obtain the 
codebook with length L , { }110 ,,, −= Lccc LC . 
Each index in C  is represented by a 
⎡ ⎤L2log -bit binary string, where ⎡ ⎤•  means a 
ceiling function. X  is divided into 
non-overlapping blocks 
bx  with size 
WW N
N
M
M × , WW NMb ⋅<≤0 , then each bx  finds 
its nearest codeword 
ic  in the codebook C , 
and the index i  is assigned to bx .  
Let the watermark for embedding be 
{ }110 ,,, −⋅= WW NMwww LW , having size WW NM × . 
Each element in W , { }1,0∈bw , WW NMb ⋅<≤0 , 
represents one watermark bit to be 
embedded into the corresponding index of 
bx . For watermarking purposes, the new 
index 
Wi  for representing bx  is generated 
from two parts: to shift the original index i  
to the left by one bit, and to tag watermark 
bit 
bw  to the end of the shifted index. That 
 6
of the watermarking algorithm: 
( ) %1001BER
1
⋅⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ ′⊕⋅⋅= ∑
⋅
=
WW NM
b
bb
WW
ww
NM
 
(2) 
  
where 
bw  and bw′  represent the embedded 
watermark bit and the extracted one, 
WW NM ⋅  denotes the watermark size, and ⊕  
indicates the exclusive-or operation. 
Generally speaking, the desirable results are 
to obtain (i) watermarked image quality 
with higher PSNR value, and (ii) extracted 
watermark with lower BER value. 
MDC is suitable for coping with severe 
channel conditions. We simulate the 
instances when one of the channels is totally 
broken down with the results in Table I.  
Table I. Simulation results with different 
erasure probabilities. 
Channel 
Conditions 
1p  2p  
Watermarked 
image quality 
(dB) 
Bit Error 
Rate in 
extracted 
watermark 
(%) 
0.0 0.0 32.53 0.00% 
0.01 0.01 32.26 0.40% 
0.05 0.05 30.69 2.44% 
0.1 0.1 28.90 4.86% 
0.25 0.25 24.59 11.82% 
0.3 0.3 23.14 13.96% 
0.4 0.4 21.52 18.54% 
0.5 0.5 19.98 23.75% 
1.0 0.0 26.09 19.45% 
0.0 1.0 26.18 26.66% 
 
 
四、 計畫成果自評 
 
We propose an innovative scheme for 
VQ-based image watermarking with 
multiple description coding in this paper. 
The proposed algorithm is suitable for 
transmitting over noisy channels, while 
retaining the capability for copyright 
protection. We modified the MDVQ and 
MDSQ index assignments for watermark 
embedding and extraction. Channel 
impairments can be overcome, and the 
watermarked reconstruction with the error 
resilient capability of MDC has acceptable 
image quality even when part of the 
information is lost during transmission. By 
incorporating with MDC, simulation results 
also presented both the better robustness of 
the watermarking algorithm due to the 
ability for recognizing the extracted 
watermark, and the more resilience to 
combat with channel noise under lightly to 
heavily erased channels. Capabilities for 
copyright protection are assured with our 
proposed algorithm. Due to the support 
from this project, 10 conference papers and 
8 journal papers are published. 
 
五、 參考文獻 
1. J. S. Pan, H.-C. Huang, and L. C. Jain 
(editors), Intelligent Watermarking 
Techniques, World Scientific Publishing 
Company, Singapore, Feb. 2004. 
2. Z. M. Lu and S. H. Sun, “Digital Image 
Watermarking Technique Based on 
Vector Quantisation,” IEE Electronics 
Letters, vol. 36, no. 4, pp. 303 – 305, 
Feb. 2000. 
3. Z. M. Lu, J. S. Pan, and S. H. Sun, 
“VQ-Based Digital Image 
Watermarking Method,” IEE 
Electronics Letters, vol. 36, no. 14, pp. 
1201 – 1202, Jul. 2000. 
1 
 
 
出席 2005年  
International Workshop on 
Intelligent Information Hiding and Multimedia 
Signal Processing  
(IIHMSP’05) 
in conjunction with 
Ninth International Conference on 
Knowledge-Based Intelligent Information & 
Engineering Systems 
研討會報告 
 
 
報告人    潘正祥 
國立高雄應用科技大學 
電子工程系 
 
 
中華民國 94 年 10月 1 日 
3 
Lossless Watermarking Technique for Halftone Images”, International Workshop 
on Intelligent Information Hiding and Multimedia Signal Processing, LNAI 3682 , 
pp. 593-599 (SCI expanded)  
8. Hsiang-Cheh Huang, Kang K. Yen, Jeng-Shyang Pan and Kuang-Chih Huang,2005, 
“Improved Image Coding with Classified VQ and Side-Match VQ”, International 
Workshop on Intelligent Information Hiding and Multimedia Signal Processing, 
LNAI 3683, 411-417 (SCI expanded)  
 
會議亦邀請兩個 Keynote Speech: 
1. Professor Peter (Chung-Yu) Wu, National Chiao Tung Univ., Taiwan, R.O.C. 
主題: Vision and Cognition in Intelligent Signal Processing, Circuits, and Systems 
2. Professor Chin-Chen Chang, Feng-Chia University 
   主題: An Adaptive Data Hiding Scheme for Palette Images 
 
並 邀請 6 個 Invited Talk: 
1. Dr. Zhen Liu, C4 Technology Inc. 
   主題: Technology of Print-to-Web Linking Using Mobile Camera and its New 
Trends in Japan 
2. Professor Eiji Kawaguchi, Keio University 
   主題: BPCS-Steganography - Principle and applications 
3. Dr. Oscar Au, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) 
主題: An Overview of the AVS-M Video Coding Standard 
4. Professor Hsueh-Ming Hang, Chiao-Tung University 
   主題: Advances of MPEG Scalable Video Coding Standard 
5. Professor Hong-Yuan Mark Liao, Institute of Information Science, Academia 
Sinica, Taiwan 
   主題: Human Behaviour Analysis and Its Applications in Surveillance Systems 
6. Professor Wai-Chi Fang, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of 
Technology, U.S.A. 
   主題: Low-Power VLSI System-on-Chip Architecture Design with Embedded 
Information Processing and Wireless Communication System for Intelligent 
Sensor Networks  
 
KES05 國際會議共有約 700篇論文發表, 其中包含 IIHMSP05 國際會議之
96篇論文。IIHMSP06 即將由 Professor Wai-Chi Fang 在美國 Pasadena 
Conventional Center 主辦。 
