 2 
以標籤圖形特性為基礎的圖形資料探勘方法的研究 
On the Study of Graph-Based Data Mining Based on the 
Characteristics of Labeled Graphs 
 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-146-006 
執行期限：99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人  ：謝樹明     華夏技術學院資訊工程系 
共同主持人：陳大仁   國立台中技術學院資訊管理系 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
圖形資料探勘近年來已逐漸成為重要
的研究主題，因其可被應用在如生物資訊
與網頁知識擷取等領域。本研究計畫提出
一個有效率的圖形資料探勘演算法，使用
內嵌串列與trie等資料結構來探勘圖形資
料庫中的頻繁連接子圖。本方法使用內嵌
檢查，藉以取代屬於 NPC 問題之子圖同構
檢查；同時，本方法將探勘過程中所找到
的型樣以 trie方式儲存，以加快子圖的比
對與搜尋空間的修剪。 
 
關鍵詞：圖形資料探勘、生物資訊、網頁
探勘、內嵌串列。 
 
Abstract 
 
Graph-based data mining is an emerging 
research topic due to its importance on the 
fields suitable to be modeled by graphs such 
as bioinformatics and web mining. In this 
project, we propose a new efficient method 
for mining frequent connected subgraphs by 
employing embedding list and trie data 
structures. The proposed method uses 
embedding checks instead of subgraph 
isomorphism, which is known to be NP 
complete, to avoid intensive computations. In 
addition, each frequent pattern found during 
the mining process is represented as a trie in 
order to reduce the redundant generated 
candidates and prune the search space in the 
early stages. 
 
Keywords: graph-based data mining, 
bioinformatics, web mining, embedding list, 
trie.  
 
2. Introduction 
 
Finding unknown but potentially useful 
information and knowledge from huge 
amounts of data is the major task of data 
mining, which has attracted much attention of 
researchers and been applied in many 
real-world applications in these decades. A 
typical example of database knowledge 
discovery is market basket analysis by 
finding the associations between the different 
items in customers‟ shopping baskets or 
purchase transactions [1], [2]. Recently, the 
analysis subjects are extended to more 
complicated structures such as long 
sequences [3], trees [4], and graphs [5], [6]. 
Among these representations, graphs are 
probably the most flexible and complicated 
structures suitable for modeling many 
application domains. It is because graphs 
have the benefits of being capable of 
characterizing the spatial, topological, and 
relational nature among the objects in the 
modeled data sets [6]. 
In the application areas modeled by graphs, 
objects are vertices and the relationships 
between object pairs are edges joining the 
vertex pairs. For examples, in a molecular 
structure an atom corresponds to a vertex and 
a bond between two atoms is an edge 
between two vertices. The atom types are 
vertex labels (e.g. C, H) and the edge labels 
are the bond types or the relative 3D 
orientations between a pair of atoms in such 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. The lattice of all subgraphs in a sample graph G. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Codes and the canonical code of a graph. 
 
In addition, we define the code of a 
graph be a string consists of the 
concatenation of all vertex labels followed by 
the rows of the upper triangular entries of the 
adjacency matrix. Therefore, a graph may 
have multiple codes among which the 
smallest one over all possible permutations 
of vertices is the canonical code. For 
example, Fig. 2(b), 2(c), and 2(d) are the 
possible permutations of the vertices on 
graph G in Fig. 2(a) where Fig. 2(d) is the 
canonical one. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Subgraph isomorphism and embeddings. 
Definition 1. (Isomorphism) Two labeled 
graphs are isomorphic if we can find a 
one-to-one and onto function between the 
vertices of these two graphs where the vertex 
labels, edge labels, and adjacency relations 
are preserved through the mapping.  
Hence the isomorphism testing is to find a 
function that maps the vertices of two graphs. 
The most common approach used to find the 
mapping function is by exploring and 
backtracking in the search space tree [18]. 
Alternatively, the canonical code of a graph 
can be employed as isomorphism certificate 
where two graphs are isomorphic if and only 
if their canonical codes are identical [6].  
Definition 2. (Subgraph isomorphism and 
embeddings) A labeled graph H is subgraph 
isomorphic to labeled graph G if and only if 
H is isomorphic to G‟, where G‟ is a 
subgraph of G. The embeddings of graph H 
in graph G is the mapping from the vertices 
of H to the vertices of G. In addition, the 
{} 
A C B 
A-A A-B A-C 
A-A 
A A-B 
A A-A-C 
A-A 
A-B 
A-A-C 
A 
A-A-C 
A-B 
A-C 
A-B 
Graph G 
1 2 3 
4 5 6 
7 
0 
8 9 
10 11 12 
13 
v3 v1 
B 
x 
y 
y 
(a) G 
A B 
(b) the matrix and code by v1,v2,v3 
v3 v2 v1 v3 
v2 
v1 
A 
B 
B 
x y 
y 
(d) the canonical matrix/code 
v2 v1 v2 v3 
v2 
v3 
v1 B 
B 
A 
y y 
x 
Code: BBAyyx 
v2 
v3 
v1 B 
B 
A y x 
y 
Code: ABByxy 
v1 v2 v3 
Code: ABBxyy 
(c) by v3,v1,v2 
v3 
v1 
B 
x 
y 
(a) graph 
H 
A B 
v2 
w4 
w5 
B 
x 
y 
A B 
w1 
B 
x 
w2 
B 
y 
w3 
B 
x 
w6 
(b) graph 
G 
 6 
already in the frequent pattern trie then no 
further work is needed, otherwise the count 
of pk+1 is incremented by one. Those 
(k+1)-patterns will then be added to frequent 
pattern trie if their support exceeds the 
threshold. In addition, the embeddings and 
embedding lists of the frequent 
(k+1)-patterns will also be kept for the use of 
later iterations. 
 
5. Examples of Data Structures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Sample database and frequent patterns. 
 
The sample database D with three graphs is 
shown in Fig. 4, in which the closed frequent 
patterns as the results of the mining process 
are also shown when the given support 
threshold s is 2. A closed frequent pattern is a 
frequent subgraph that is not contained in any 
larger frequent subgraphs.  
All the frequent 1-patterns are found by 
simple counting before the BFS loop in step 
5 of algorithm NewMethod. There are six 
1-patterns in the set F1: (A, x, A), (A, y, B), 
(B, x, C), (B, y, D), (C, x, E), and (D, z, E). 
Notice that these patterns are stored and 
ordered by their canonical codes. For easy of 
illustration, each pattern is given an identifier 
in the format p-v-e-n, where v and e are the 
number of vertex and edge of the pattern, 
respectively, and n is series number of the 
patterns with the same v and e values. For 
example, the identifier of pattern (A, x, A) is 
p-2-1-1. In addition, the embedding list and 
embeddings of these patterns are also stored. 
Figure 5 shows the canonical matrix, 
canonical code, embedding list, and 
embeddings of pattern (A, x, A). These 
frequent 1-patterns are also inserted into the 
Global Frequent Pattern Trie (GFPT) in Fig. 
6. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. The data structures of a 1-pattern. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. The trie contains only frequent 
1-patterns. 
In the process of constructing frequent 
2-patterns, algorithm NewMethod extends 
each 1-pattern in F1 with the extendable 
edges in F1 (denoted as F1  F1). For 
example, the 1-pattern (A, x, A) can be 
extended with (A, x, A) and (A, y, B). When 
extending (A, x, A) with (A, x, A), the 
intersection of the embedding lists of these 
two patterns is G1 and G2. Therefore, it is 
needed to examine the combinations of the 
embeddings of the two patterns in both G1 
and G2 separately. In G1, the possible 
extensions are (v1, v2)  (v1, v3), (v1, v2)  (v2, 
v3), and (v1, v3)  (v2, v3). For the result 
pattern of the first extension, the canonical 
code is AAAxx0 (suppose 0 is the largest 
label), which corresponds to the vertex 
permutation (v1, v2, v3). The other two cases 
A 
A 
x 
Code: AAx 
Embedding list: G1, G2 
Embeddings in G1: (v1, v2), (v1, v3), 
(v2, v3) Embeddings in G2: (v1, v2), (v1, v3), 
(v2, v3) 
Matrix: 
Pattern p-2-1-1 
A A 
x Pattern: 
v1 
A 
v3 A v2 
A 
v4 B 
v5 C 
x 
x 
x x y G1 
v1 
A 
v3 
A 
v2 
A 
v4 
B 
v5 C 
x 
x 
x x 
y 
G2 
v6 D 
v7 E 
z 
x 
y x 
v2 
B 
C 
x 
v4 D 
v5 E 
z 
x 
y v1 A 
v3 
G3 
x 
x 
A A 
A 
x x 
x 
B A 
y 
B 
C 
x 
D 
E 
z 
x 
y 
Global Frequent Pattern Trie 
(GFPT) 
A B C D … 
A B … 
p-2-1-1 
(A, x, A) 
p-2-1-2 
(A, y, B) 
… … 
p-2-1-3 
(B, x, C) 
p-2-1-4 
(B, y, D) 
C D 
p-2-1-5 
(C, x, E) 
p-2-1-6 
(D, z, E) 
 8 
Vol. 50, pp. 321-354, 2003. 
[15] X. Yan and J. Han, “gSpan: Graph-Based 
Substructure Pattern Mining,” Proc. 2002 IEEE 
Int’l Conf. Data Mining, 2002. 
[16] J. Huan, W. Wang, and J. Prims, “Efficient Mining 
of Frequent Subgraph in the Presence of 
Isomorphism,” University of North Carolina 
Computer Science Technical Report, 2003. 
[17] I. Fischer and T. Meinl, “Graph based molecular 
data mining – an overview,” Proc. 2004 IEEE Int’l 
Conf. Systems, Man and Cybernetics (SMC ’04), 
2004. 
[18] B. Jenner, J. Kobler, P. McKenzie, and J. Toran, 
“Completeness results for graph isomorphism,” 
Journal of Computer and System Sciences, Vol. 66, 
No. 3, pp. 549-566, 2003. 
[19] G. Chartrand and P. Zhang, Introduction to Graph 
Theory, New York, McGraw Hill, 2002. 
[20]   
 
Applying Web Mining Techniques for Constructing Webometrics Ranking Early 
Warning System 
Shu-Ming Hsieh 
Dep. Computer Science & Information Engineering 
Hwa Hsia Institute of Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
stanley@cc.hwh.edu.tw 
Ssu-An Lo 
Dep. Information Management 
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, 
Taipei, Taiwan 
D9409107@mail.ntust.edu.tw 
Chiun-Chieh Hsu* 
Dep. Information Management 
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, 
Taipei, Taiwan 
cchsu@mail.ntust.edu.tw 
Da-Ren Chen 
Dep. Information Management 
Hwa Hsia Institute of Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
danny@cc.hwh.edu.tw 
Abstract—The management of university web sites is becoming 
more critical than before due to the rapid growth of the 
population dependent on the world wide web as the most 
important (if not the only) information source. A university 
can spread its research outcomes and education achievements 
through its web site, and consequently gain visibility and 
influence from the web population. Webometrics Ranking of 
World Universities (WR) proposed by Centre for Scientific 
Information and Documentation (CINDOC-CSIC), which 
ranks the university web sites, has obtained much attention 
recently. The rankings of WR are well recognized as an 
important index for universities willing to promote themselves 
by the internet technology. In this paper, we proposed WRES 
as an early warning system for Webometrics Rankings. WRES 
gathers the WR indices from the WWW automatically in 
flexible periods, and provides useful information in real time 
for the managers of university web sites. If the WR ranking of 
an institution is below the expected position according to their 
academic performance, university authorities should 
reconsider their web policy, by promoting substantial increases 
of the volume and quality of their electronic publications. 
Besides, the web site manages may adopt effective approaches 
to promote their WR rankings according to the hints given by 
WRES. 
Keywords- Web mining; DOM tree; search engines; 
Webometrics; web site management 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
Just as a commercial company needs a well-designed 
web site to be recognized by customers, a university also 
needs high-quality and rich-content web pages to present its 
superiority in academic performance. Webometrics is 
concerned with measuring aspects of the web: web sites, web 
pages, hyperlinks, electronic files, electronic papers, 
technical reports, and web search engine results. The leader 
of Center for Scientific Information and Documentation 
(CSIC), Isidro F. Aguillo, by whom Webometrics Rankings 
of World Universities (WR) [1, 2] is proposed, made 
statements about academic information on Internet as 
“Information provided could be useful to increase the 
commitment to electronic publication, guiding the Web 
policies and therefore improving Web presence and 
visibility”. Hence WR was designed to emphasize the 
sharing of web resources provided by world universities. By 
the WR platform, universities in developing countries can 
show their importance in the same manner as the ones in 
developed counties. 
In Taiwan, a large portion of universities consider web 
site management for WR a critical opportunity to promote 
their reputation and to appeal future students. Although some 
people criticize about the ranking value of WR, the indices 
of WR are commonly recognized as the “e-management” 
degree of a university. Nevertheless, as far as the authors can 
concern, most Taiwanese universities, including some of the 
Taiwanese top universities, start to seek solutions to promote 
their local and worldwide ranking positions in WR. However, 
CSIC only announces their ranking results in static period 
(January and July); the ambitious universities can only wait 
to be informed of their indices scores twice a year. 
In this paper, we apply web mining techniques to design 
an early warning system WRES in order to help universities 
to improve their web site management and hence their WR 
index scores and ranking positions. WRES provides 
information of WR indices in flexible period by gathering 
the web contents of the four main search engines the same 
way as WR does. By the visualized results provided by 
WRES, managers of university web sites may pursuit 
solutions to strengthen their weakness; also they can verify 
the effectiveness of their efforts immediately, without 
waiting to be informed in January and July. Finally, the 
benefits of WRES go to all the users on the web, because the 
web sites will be managed with more care and documented 
with more sufficient and up-to-date academic data. 
II. BACKGROUND 
A. Webometrics Ranking 
Webometrics orders world universities according to four 
indicators concerning the academic data shared on university 
web sites, which are size (S, amount of web pages), visibility 
V5-420
2011 3rd International Conference on Computer Design and Applications（ICCDA 2011）
978-1-4244-9489-7/11/$26.00 .2011 IEEE
 Figure 2.  Web mining catalog 
The mining of web usage recorded in user log files is 
helpful for discovering the behavior, the intention, or the 
interest of individual users. By analyzing the user log files, 
the mining machine can adopt sequential or itemset mining 
algorithms to find frequent patterns and to produce 
association rules of user browsing behavior [9,11,12,13]. The 
results of web usage mining form the basis for 
personalization and recommendation of e-commerce and e-
services. 
WRES adopts some of the web mining techniques to 
extract useful information from the four search engines, and 
presents the results which the site managers are eager to 
obtain. 
III. OPERATION PROCESS OF WRES 
The implementation and operation process of WRES 
follows the five steps shown in Fig. 3. As the step captions 
reveal, WRES uses page structure mining techniques to 
perform web page template analysis. With the results, WRES 
produces template rules into its rule base. Then WRES 
executes reverse engineering to define the fields of the 
database tables. The most important and critical step is the 
automatic data fill-in process, which extracts meaningful 
material from the source websites and fill them into the 
tables. As the final stage, WRES calculates and analyzes WR 
indices scores to report tabular or graphical outputs to its 
clients. 
The system diagram of WRES is shown in Fig. 4. The 
data extraction engine within WRES commits the queries to 
search engines Google, Yahoo, Bing, and Exalead as 
described in Table 2, then obtains the index scores and 
integrates the values into the corresponding fields in the WR 
database tables. This engine uses the proposed technique 
called auto data fill-in to infill the proper scores to WR 
indices reports. 
The data extraction process of WRES is simply filling in 
the queries to search engine, and the extraction engine will 
take advantage of URL of the search engine result page in 
order to automatically produce the source code through 
WRES. Then, the extraction engine tries to find the 
beginning and ending of the html tag which takes charge of 
the search engine result. Finally, the extraction engine may 
automatically collect the search engine results in the future. 
 
Figure 3.  The operation process of WRES 
 
Figure 4.  The system diagram of WRES 
IV. RESULTS OF WRES 
The five main functions of WRES are: (1) the CSIC-
announced local and worldwide rankings of Taiwanese 
universities, (2) the rankings by the amounts of indexed 
objects of Taiwanese university websites, (3) the department 
rankings within a specific university, (4) the department 
rankings of similar departments of Taiwanese universities, 
and (5) the trend analysis diagram.  
WRES calculates the local rankings of Taiwanese 
universities as well as the world rankings by CSIC. Local 
universities can learn in which positions they are ranked 
among the universities in nearby area or the whole Taiwan. 
Fig. 5 shows the WR indicator values of Taiwanese 
universities queried from the four search engines as 
described in Table 2. The values of each search engines can 
be viewed by click on the page tag of the search engine. For 
example, clicking on page tag Exalead will show S and RF 
values as shown in Fig. 5, and the V and Sc values are not 
available because WR does not query V and Sc values from 
Analyze the Templates of Website Pages
Produce the Rules of Page Templates
Reconstruct the Schema of Database Tables
Automatically Fill Meaningful Materials into the 
Database Tables 
WR Indices Scores Calculation and Analysis
V5-422
2011 3rd International Conference on Computer Design and Applications（ICCDA 2011）
[8] M. Kayed and C.-H. Chang, “FiVaTech: Page-Level Web Data 
Extraction from Template Pages,” IEEE Trans. Knowledge and Data 
Engineering, vol. 22. no. 2, pp. 249-263, 2010. 
[9] C.-H.Chang, “Sequential Pattern Mining for Web Extraction Rule 
Generalization,” The 6th World multiconference on Systemics, 
Cybernetics and Informatics, Orlando, Florida, 2002. 
[10] C.-H.Chang, S.-C. Kuo, K.-Y.Hwang, T.-H. Ho, and C.-L. Lin, 
“ Automatic Information Extraction for Multiple Singular Web 
Pages,” Proc. sixth Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery 
and Data Mining, Taiwan, pp. 297-303, 2002. 
[11] C.-H. Chang and S.-C. Lui, “IEPAD: Information Extraction based on 
Pattern Discovery,” Proc. tenth International Conference on World 
Wide Web, Hong Kong, 2001. 
[12] C.-H. Chang, S.-C. Lui, and Y.-C Wu, “Applying Pattern Mining to 
Web Information Extraction,” Proc. fifth Pacific-Asia Conference on 
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (PAKDD01), Hong Kong, 
LNAI 2035, pp. 4-15, 2001. 
[13] C.-H. Chang, S.-C. Lui, and Y.-C. Wu, “Semi-structured Information 
Extraction Applying Automatic Pattern Discovery,” Proc. the 
fourteenth International Computer Symposium, Chia-Yi, Taiwan. 
2000. 
 
V5-424
2011 3rd International Conference on Computer Design and Applications（ICCDA 2011）
  
第三届 IEEE计算机设计与应用国际会议 
(ICCDA 2011) 
5月 27-29,2011  西安 陕西 中国 
http://www.iccda.org 
亲爱的作者：  
感谢您投稿第三届IEEE计算机设计与应用国际会议，我们很高兴通知您：  
稿件编号：D2693 
稿件题目：Applying Web Mining Techniques for Constructing Webometrics Ranking Early Warning System  
稿件作者：Shu-Ming Hsieh ,Ssu-An Lo,Chiun-Chieh Hs,Da-Ren Chen 
已经被“第三届IEEE计算机设计与应用”国际会议录用。您的文章将被IEEE出版社出版，论文集中收录的论文都将
进入IEEE Xplore数据库并被EI Compendex和ISTP检索。会议论文长度请不要超过4页；如果超过4页，将额外收取
300元人民币每页。修改最终版本论文时，应该严格按照IEEE论文模版进行编辑。为了缓解会务组的工作压力，录
用通知和注册分批进行，投稿早的先发录用通知、先注册。不参加会议的作者不影响论文的发表和EI检索。汇款
方式见压缩文件中的注册表文件第二页。 
请在2011年3月5日以前将填好的注册表、论文终稿（请严格按照论文模版修改）、版权表（第一页签字扫描件）
以及汇款凭证的扫描件发回大会邮箱（邮件主题注明“注册”+稿件编号）iccda2011@vip.163.com 。为了便于会
务组对论文格式进行检查和修改，论文终稿请提供word文档，如果确信格式没有问题，也可以只提供pdf格式终
稿。 
论文Word模版下载地址：http://www.iccda.org/instruct8.5x11x2.doc       
论文Latex模版下载地址：http://www.iccda.org/IEEE_CS_Latex8.5x11x2.zip 
 
祝您工作、学习愉快！  
第三届 IEEE计算机设计与应用国际会议组委会 
  
9. FINAL 
RECOMMENDATION 
Acceptance  
Revision  
Rejection  
Comments:  
Topic of this paper is important and related to this conference. The author’s work is novel and suggestive, 
and the author makes investigation in the proposed method. There is no major modification opinion, only please 
pay more attention to english grammar and format your paper according to the template provided by 
conference homepage. I hope see you to present your paper work in ICCDA2011. 
 
(V, amount of incoming links), rich files (RF, amount of rich 
files), and scholar (Sc, amount of scholar documents). The 
definitions of the four indices of WR are shown in Table 1 [1, 
2]. 
TABLE I.  DEFINITIONS OF THE FOUR INDICES OF WR 
No. Index Definition Weight
1 S, size 
The amount of pages 
indexed by Google, Yahoo, 
Bing, and Exalead 
20% 
2 V, visibility 
The amount of inverse 
links indexed by Yahoo 50% 
3 RF, rich files 
The amount of files in pdf, 
doc, ppt, and pps types 
indexed by Google, Yahoo, 
Bing, and Exalead 
15% 
4 Sc, scholar 
The amount of scholar 
documents indexed by 
Google Scholar 
15% 
 
We can obtain the values of the indices by giving the 
queries listed in Table 2 to the corresponding search engines, 
and then calculate the total score of a web site by substituting 
the values into the formula below: 
WR＝0.2 × Score(S) ＋  0.5 × Score(V) ＋  0.15 × 
Score(RF) ＋ 0.15 × Score(Sc) 
We have induced the relationship among the four WR 
indices as Figure 1. Index S (size) includes index RF (rich 
file) because the size of indexed objects of a web site is 
composed of html page files, pdf files, doc files, ppt files, 
and pps files. As for index V (visibility), each page, rich file, 
and academic paper is actually an opportunity to be indexed 
by search engines; hence index V contains all the other three 
indices. 
WRES collects information for its clients from the four 
mentioned search engines and calculates the WR scores 
(indicator values) of these clients automatically, by using the 
formula and queries described above. 
We have induced the relationship among the four WR 
indices as Fig. 1. Index S (size) includes index RF (rich file) 
because the size of indexed objects of a web site is composed 
of html page files, pdf files, doc files, ppt files, and pps files. 
As for index V (visibility), each page, rich file, and academic 
paper is actually an opportunity to be indexed by search 
engines; hence index V contains all the other three indices. 
TABLE II.  QUERIES TO OBTAIN THE VALUES OF WR INDICES (USING 
WEB SITE NTUST AS EXAMPLE) 
Google 
Google.com: 
S, RF 
Scholar.google.com:Sc 
Yahoo 
Yahoo.com:S
, V, RF 
Bing 
Bing.com: 
S, RF 
Exalead 
Exalead.com/searc
h:S, RF 
S site:ntust.edu.tw site:ntust.edu.tw 
site:ntust.edu.t
w site:ntust.edu.tw
V --- 
linkdomain:nt
ust.edu.tw-
site:ntust.edu.
tw 
--- --- 
RF site:ntust.edu.tw filetype:doc or pdf or 
site:ntust.edu.
tw 
site:ntust.edu.t
w filetype:doc 
site:ntust.edu.tw 
filetype:doc or pdf 
ppt or pps filetype:doc 
or pdf or ppt 
or pps 
or pdf or ppt or 
pps 
or ppt or pps 
Sc scholar.google.com site:ntust.edu.tw --- --- --- 
 
Figure 1.  The relationship among the four WR indices 
WRES collects information for its clients from the four 
mentioned search engines and calculates the WR scores 
(indicator values) of these clients automatically, by using the 
formula and queries described above. 
B. Web Mining 
There are basically three fundamental types of web 
mining: web structure mining, web content mining, and web 
usage mining, as depicted in Fig. 2. 
Web structure mining, also known as page template 
analysis, produces DOM (document object model) tree [3, 5, 
6] by the tags embedded in page source codes. The tags are 
nodes in a DOM tree, and the inclusion relation between 
each pair of tags is a link from a father node to its child node. 
By a built DOM tree, we can analyze the structure of a 
page through the typical operations on a tree. For example, 
fining similar subtrees in the same DOM tree is helpful for 
discovering the patterns formed by html tags, which usually 
contain structured data such as records of a database table. 
The main purpose of web content mining is to facilitate 
page classification and web information retrieval. The 
common learning techniques in this kind of mining include 
decision tree, support vector machine (SVM)[7], Naïve 
Bayes method[4], and K-nearest neighbor classification [7]. 
This kind of mining also helps automated data extraction 
from the WWW [8, 9, 10, 11, 12]. 
V5-421
2011 3rd International Conference on Computer Design and Applications（ICCDA 2011）
Exalead as shown in Table 2. Before CSIC announces the 
rankings, Website managers can be “early warned” by these 
results from WRES of their scores in each search engines. 
After they adopt some improving steps, for example, share 
more documents on their websites, the managers can receive 
responses from WRES in short time. The managers can 
repeat this process until they find out proper and efficient 
solutions to lift their scores higher. The solutions here should 
be emphasized to be legal and without cheating tricks. Figure 
10 is a sample when the page tag Scores is clicked. 
WRES also provides department rankings within the 
same university. This function is useful because academic 
departments are actually the main information providers 
rather than administrative departments. The administrative 
officers can use the ranking information to discover the 
weakness among the departments and keep auditing the 
improvements made by the stragglers. 
 
Figure 5.  The global and local rankings by CSIC of Taiwanese 
universities 
In addition, WRES has a function to rank similar 
departments from selected Taiwanese universities. Again, 
managers in department level or university level may all 
need to compare their departments with others in similar 
fields. Hence managers in both levels can research into the 
strategies to improve their indicator scores. Fig. 6 and Fig. 7 
demonstrate the steps to produce the trend analysis diagrams. 
Fig. 6 shows the steps of selecting comparing targets from 
the university lists divided into north, middle, and south area 
of Taiwan and then choose an indicator and set the period of 
observation. Fig. 7 is a sample of the produced diagram.  
 
Figure 6.  Select an indicator and set the period for observation 
 
Figure 7.  The line chart of nine universities for indicator S in the 
predefined period 
V. CONCLUSION 
Pursuing higher WR rankings should not be the ultimate 
goal for a university. It is rather an important index about the 
management quality of a website or even a university. 
WRES is constructed for the purpose of providing automatic 
early warnings for university website managers, and giving 
them more details and deeper insight of the WR ranking 
indicators. We employ web mining techniques to construct 
the early warning system WRES, which collects the WR 
indicator values and fills in the values into proper database 
tables for further display automatically. WRES facilitates 
website managers to observe the indicators from multiple 
points of view and to adopt effective approaches to improve 
the indicator scores and ranking positions. The whole WWW 
population will finally benefit from the WR ranking 
improvements of university websites, because in the mean 
time more high quality academic materials are shared and 
spread through ubiquitous media – the Internet. 
REFERENCES 
[1] I. Aguillo, J. Ortega, and M. Fernández, “Webometric Ranking of 
World Universities: Introduction, Methodology, and Future 
Developments,” Proc. Higher Education in Europe, pp.233-244, 2008. 
[2] I. Aguillo, and J.Ortega, “Mapping World-class universities on the 
Web,” Journal of Information Processing & Management, vol. 45, no. 
2, pp.272-279, 2009. 
[3] S.-H. Lin and J.-M.Ho, “Discovering Informative Content Blocks 
from Web Documents,” Proc. 8th ACM SIGKDD on Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 588-593, 2002. 
[4] Ssu-An Lo, C.-Y. Lee, and Chiun-Chieh Hsu, “Automatically 
Classify Web Site by Multimembership Bayesian Approach,” Proc. 
Third International Conference on Information Technology on Web 
Technology, pp. 580-583, Apr. 2006. 
[5] R. Song, “Learning Block Importance Models for Web Pages,” Proc. 
World Wide Web Conference, pp. 203-211, 2004. 
[6] S.Ye and T.-S Chua, “Learning Object Models from Semi-structured 
Web Pages,” IEEE Trans. Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 18, 
no. 3, pp. 334-349, 2006. 
[7] C.-H. Chang, M. Kayed, M. R. Girgis, and K. Shaalan, “A Survey of 
Web Information Extraction Systems,” IEEE Trans. Knowledge and 
Data Engineering, vol. 18, no. 10, pp. 1411-1428, 2006. 
V5-423
2011 3rd International Conference on Computer Design and Applications（ICCDA 2011）
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以標籤圖形特性為基礎的圖形資料探勘方法的研究
計畫主持人: 謝樹明
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-146-006- 學門領域: 計算機理論與演算法
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
