2 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
IEEE 802.16 (WiMAX) [1] is a promising last mile technology for broadband wireless access. 
The major network components are a Base Station (BS) and multiple Subscriber Stations (SSs). 
The BS provides wired network access to the SSs within its range. The downlink direction (i.e., 
from the BS to the SSs) is a broadcast channel, while the uplink direction (i.e., from the SSs to 
the BS) is a multiple access channel shared by all SSs. Compared to IEEE 802.11 (Wi-Fi), 
WiMAX has higher bandwidth and a broader coverage range.  
Thanks to the broadcast nature of the wireless medium, performing multicast does not require 
more resources than unicast. The high bandwidth and broad coverage range also make WiMAX 
an excellent platform for multicast. All kinds of multicast applications, such as IPTV streaming, 
video conferencing and Radio over IP, can be provided to numerous users efficiently. Since the 
resources of a wireless network are relatively scarce, limiting the budget of each service is 
inevitable. To maximize user satisfaction with a given budget, the system should serve as many 
recipients as possible. Solving this maximization problem may be easy in a pure BS/SS 
infrastructure, but it is difficult in the newly proposed 802.16j specification. 
The 802.16j standard [2] introduced a new category of nodes called Relay Stations (RSs). The 
function of RSs is to relay data upward and downward between the BS and SSs. Since attenuation 
over a long distance may be severe, and the direct path between the BS and SSs may be blocked 
by obstacles, relaying via RSs may improve the transmission quality. Similar to a BS, each RS 
provides SSs with a broadcast channel in the downlink direction and a multiple access channel in 
the uplink direction. SSs can connect to the BS directly or through an RS if necessary. The use of 
RSs, however, increases the complexity of resource allocation. In a network with no RSs, the 
total resource budget of a stream can simply be given to the BS because it is the only node that 
multicasts the stream, but in 802.16j, the resources should be allocated among the BS and RSs. In 
many works, searching for the route that requires the minimal resources for unicast transmissions 
is an intuitive approach. However, this approach fails to utilize resources for multicast efficiently 
because finding the minimal route of each SS does not necessarily render good resource 
utilization of the multicast topology.  
1
SS 1
5
BS
RS 13
1
SS 2 RS 2
3
5
8
8
 
(a) Resource budget required by each link 
 
1
SS 1
BS
RS 1
3
1
SS 2
RS 
2
3
Total required resource: 
1+3+3=7  
(b) Resource allocation that finds the minimal route independently 
SS 1
5
BS
SS 2
5
Total required resource: 5
 
(c) The solution that requires the minimal resources 
Figure. 1. Different multicast topologies 
4 
 
more robust (but slower) technique is employed. To support AMC, burst profile messages in each 
transmission frame of WiMAX record each node’s modulation configuration. Each node should 
negotiate its burst profile with its sender (the BS or an RS) before transmission. Since each node 
may use different burst profiles to transmit, their data rates may differ. When multicasting a 
stream to a set of nodes, the stream should be encoded with the most robust burst profile 
(corresponding to the node(s) of the channel link with the worst quality) in the group so that 
every node can receive the program. As a result, the more users there are in a group, the greater 
the probability that the stream will be encoded with a more robust profile; therefore, more 
resources will be required to transmit the same amount of data.  
The system is modeled as follows. Let 0RS  
be the BS, and let Yy 1 , yRS  
denote the RSs, 
where Y is the number of RSs in a WiMAX network. Next, we mark each SS by nSS , Nn 1 , 
where N is the number of SSs requesting the multicast stream. In WiMAX, the resource to be 
allocated is the transmission time since it is TDMA. Let the bandwidth of the multicast stream be 
M, and the interval between each frame be T; then, the total amount of data transmitted in the 
stream of a frame is MT. We denote the data rate of the burst profile used between yRS  and nSS  
by ynb , . The minimal resource required for nSS  to receive the stream from yRS  
is 
yn
yn
b
MT
r
,
,  . 
Similarly, we use yr  to represent the resource required for yRS  
to receive the stream from the 
BS. As long as the system is properly configured (i.e., every node knows all the burst profiles that 
may be used), the stream sent by yRS  
can always be decoded by nSS  if it is encoded with a 
resource not smaller than ynr , . This assumption is very common and is used by other multicast 
schemes, such as MEB and MEM. It can also be applied in more general conditions where radio 
resource can be power or bandwidth.  
To facilitate understanding of the parameters, we use some matrixes. Let ],...,[ ,1,0, Ynnn
SS
n rrrR   
denote the links’ resource requirement of nSS . Another matrix ],...,[ 21
SS
N
SSSSSS RRRR  , which 
contains all SSnR ,  denotes the channel condition of all SSs. Let the matrix ],...,0[ 10 Y
RS rrrR   
represent the resource requirements of all RSs. Since no additional relay is needed for the BS, 
00 r . Fig. 2 shows the relationships among the nodes and the required resources.  
BS(RS0)
......
nSS NSS2SS1SS
1RS yRS YRS......
1,nr 2,nr ynr , Ynr ,
2RS
1r 2r
0,nr
yr Yr
......
... YNr ,
 
Figure 2. SSs, RSs and the resource requirement of the links 
 
The target problem (called Budgeted Multicast Routing hereafter) can then be defined as 
follows: given a resource budget and the channel quality (i.e., the minimal resource requirement) 
of each link, the problem allocates the resource to the BS and the RSs to maximize the total 
number of SSs that receive the stream successfully. Based on above notations, the problem can be 
formally expressed as follows: 
given totalr , 
SSR  and RSR ,  
find ],...,[ 10 YrararaRA   that maximizes  
 

N
n
Y
y
yyny rraUrraU
1 0
0, ))()(,1min( ,  
6 
 
do 
for y=1 to Y,  
DRAtemp RARA  ; 
]0[0 qrr
temp  ; 
]0[0 qr
temp  ; 
                        rrr answery
temp
y  ; 
if )()( maxRAPRAP temp   then 
                            tempRARA max ; 
end if; 
end for; 
]0[q  is popped from the queue; 
 
loop until (
temp
y
raYy
raq
temp
y 0,1
max]0[

 ) or ( q  is empty); 
 
if DRARARA max  then 
       maxRARADRA  ; 
else exit do; 
end if; 
loop; 
 
return DRARA ; 
Figure 3. The Pseudo Code of DRA 
 
Once the best allocation maxRA  of a round is found, it is compared with the old allocation 
DRARA . If they are identical, which means the algorithm cannot find any allocations that 
outperform the old DRARA , the algorithm terminates and returns the value of DRARA . Otherwise, 
the value of DRARA  is set by 
maxRA  and the loop continues.   
III. COMPLEXITY ANALYSIS 
In this section, we prove Budgeted Multicast Routing (BMR) problem is NP-hard and 
demonstrate that our proposed scheme has polynomial-time complexity. 
Theorem 1: BMR is NP-hard. 
Proof:  
To prove that the problem is NP-hard, we consider a well known NP-complete problem 
called integral knapsack [10]. Given the maximal affordable weight of the knapsack BW , as well 
as the values and weights ( ],...,[ 21 NVVVV   and ],...,[ 21 NWWWW   respectively) of N boxes, the 
integral knapsack problem involves finding the subset of boxes S that maximizes the total value 
(
S
iV ), subject to  
S
Bi WW , where NWV ii ,  for i=1 to N.  
Any instance of the integral knapsack can be transformed into an instance of BMR by 
transforming each box y into an RS ( yRS ) whose 0yr  and a subordinate group containing yV  
SSs. The required resource for SSs in group y to connect to yRS  
is yW , but it takes larger  to 
connect to other RSs;  larger  can be any value larger than totalr  such that these SSs can only be 
served by yRS . With this transformation, it takes the BS iW  to serve iV  SSs, and the optimal 
solution of BMR (i.e., maximizing the number of SSs served with the given resource limit) is the 
optimum of the integral knapsack (i.e., maximizing the value of the selected boxes with the given 
weight limit). 
Since any instance of the integral knapsack can be transformed into an instance of BMR in 
8 
 
B. Simulation I 
In the first simulation, we compare the performance of the allocations of the three schemes 
under different resource budgets. The value of N and Y are fixed at 100 and 5 respectively, while 
the value of totalr  is tuned in the range 0 to 1,000,000. The results of a=2 and a=3 are shown in 
Fig. 5 (a) and (b) respectively, where each point is averaged over 100 random node placements. 
We observe several phenomena in the results. For all allocations, more SSs are served as the 
budget increases; however, DRARA  achieves a better performance than BSRA  and fixedRA ,  
indicating that the participation of RSs allows more SSs to be served, and thus improves resource 
utilization. Although RSs are also used in fixedRA , it does not yield an obvious performance gain 
over BSRA . In (a), it actually performs worse, showing that the typical routing approach, which 
optimizes each node’s route independently, is inefficient for multicast. In other words, RSs may 
not yield any performance improvement if the routing scheme is badly designed. 
 
 
 
(a) a=2 
 
 
 
(b) a=3 
Figure 5. Performance under different attenuation factors 
 
We observe different allocation trends under different attenuation factors. In simulations with 
larger a, more resource budget is required to connect with nodes farther away from the BS. This 
is why the number of SSs served in (b) saturate more slowly when totalr   is large. However, 
DRARA  performs well in both simulations, meaning that its effectiveness is not affected by 
channel attenuation. 
C. Simulation II 
Next, we fix the value of N, a and totalr  at 100, 3 and 500,000 respectively, and tune the 
10 
 
[6] O. Egecioglu and T.Gonzalez, “Minimum-energy broadcast in simple graphs with limited 
node power,” in Proceedings of IASTED International Conference on Parallel and Distributed 
Computing and Systems (PDCS 2001), pp.334-338, Anaheim, CA, August 2001. 
[7] D. Li, X. Jia and H. Liu, “Energy Efficient Broadcast Routing in Static Ad Hoc Wireless 
Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, Vol.3, No. 2, 2004. 
[8] S. Guo and O. Yang, “A dynamic multicast tree reconstruction algorithm for 
minimum-energy multicasting in wireless ad hoc networks,” in Proceedings of IEEE 
International Conference on Performance, Computing, and Communications, 2004, pp.634-642. 
[9] "Constructing minimum-energy broadcast trees in wireless ad hoc networks," in 
Proceedings of the 3rd ACM International Symposium on Mobile Adhoc Networking & 
Computing, 2002,  pp.112-122. 
[10] M. R Garey and D. S. Johnson (1979). “Computers and Intractability: A Guide to the Theory 
of NP-Completeness.” W.H. Freeman. ISBN 0-7167-1045-5. A6: MP9, pp.247. 
[11] T. S. Rappaport, Wireless Communications: Principles and Practices. anglewood Cliffs, NJ: 
Prentice-Hall, 1996. 
SELF RESULT REVIEWING 
      In this research, we have successfully design a scheme to solve the problem we aim to 
solve. The paper has also been published on the proceedings of IEEE International 
Communication Conference 2009. The journal version is also under revision and will be 
submitted. Therefore, I think we have produced satisfying results which can be studied by future 
researchers or be integrated into existing technologies. 
 
12 
 
技術特點 
 
1. 數學模型十分通用，可適用於所有使用 AMC(adaptive modulation and coding)
技術的無線接收網路。而目前多數網路皆是如此。 
2. 考慮無線網路的現實層面在有限預算中獲取較佳效能。 
3. 計算效率佳，可定期執行以反映最新通道狀況。 
推廣及運用的價值 
 
可運用在無線接取網路之群播服務上。使通道利用效率提昇，增加通道容量。
在相同容量下，使用者可獲得較佳服務。 
 
對電信業者來說，頻寬即成本。在相同網路技術下，使用此方法，提供較多服
務可帶來較高收益。因此極具推廣價值。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
