智慧車輛之自主導航系統設計與實現 
 
計畫主持人：李祖添 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－027－125 
執行期間：96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 07 月 31 日 
 
ABSTRACT 
This research uses Global Positioning System (GPS) 
and Laser Range Finder to achieve the purpose of the 
vehicle navigation and collision warning with an 
embedded DSP platform, TMS320C6713DSK. Once the 
dangerous situation happens, the speech suggestion will 
be executed for collision warning. In addition, an inertial 
measurement unit (IMU) is equipped on the vehicle to 
realize the manipulation of dead reckoning (DR) and the 
operation about comfort-meter. Using operation results of 
comfort-meter, it can be utilized to examine whether the 
controller design of autonomous driving control does 
conform to the comfortable standard or not. Finally, the 
related information of the vehicle states will also be 
transmitted to the far-end monitoring center and shown in 
the graphical user interface by wireless transmission in 
order to monitor the driving states and improve the safety 
of the vehicle. In brief, this research develops some 
useful functions of vehicle navigation, wireless 
transmission, speech warning, collision avoidance, dead 
reckoning, and remote monitoring and realizes them on 
the embedded DSP platform. 
Keywords: Intelligent Transportation Systems, DSP, 
Dead-Reckoning, Collision Avoidance, Comfort-meter, 
Intelligent vehicle 
1. INTRODUCTION 
This research uses GPS and Laser Range Finder to 
achieve the purpose of the vehicle navigation and 
collision warning with an embedded platform. On the 
view of the safety driving, the fusion information of the 
distance obtained from a laser range finder and the speed 
from the vehicle are utilized to determine whether the 
driving situation is dangerous or not. Once the dangerous 
situation happens, the speech suggestion will be executed 
for collision warnings. The related information of the 
vehicle states will also be transmitted to the far-end 
monitoring center by wireless transmission in order to 
monitor the driving states and improve the safety of the 
vehicle. In addition, an inertial measurement unit (IMU) 
is equipped on the vehicle to measure the three-axis 
accelerations and angular speeds. The information can be 
utilized to realize the manipulation of dead reckoning 
(DR) as GPS floats. After that, the optimal navigation 
information of GPS/DR is estimated so that the 
embedded system can work continuously for vehicle 
localization, navigation and monitoring. Finally, the 
optimal navigation information is shown in a graphical 
user interface. In brief, this research develops some 
useful functions of vehicle navigation, wireless 
transmission, speech suggestion, collision avoidance, 
dead reckoning, and remote monitoring to realize it on 
the embedded DSP platform as shown in Fig. 1. 
Fig. 1 DSP platform and system functions 
This system includes the following important parts:  
¾ Vehicle navigation systems 
GPS can offer the navigation and localization 
information with graphical user interface, label the 
vehicle’s position in the map through a geographical 
information system (GIS) and obtain the path and speed 
of the vehicle. As GPS floats, DR can be used to estimate 
the location of the vehicle through IMU. 
¾ Wireless transmission and monitoring 
The wireless transmission module is used to transmit 
the in-vehicle information to the far-end monitoring 
center which can make a management of moving 
vehicles. Then the driving recorder is constructed to take 
down the related information of vehicle states like 
The specification is as follows. 
3.1Collision avoidance (CA) strategy 
There are two stages in the collision avoidance 
strategy. The first stage is the computation of warning 
distance for the normal warning situation. The second 
stage is the computation of braking distance for the 
guarantee of collision avoidance. It is possible for a 
driver to begin a driving collision avoidance maneuver 
earlier than a braking collision avoidance maneuver. 
Therefore, the CA strategy should employ a 
non-conservative warning distance before that the driver 
begins the steering maneuver, and a conservative braking 
distance that if less than this distance, then the 
emergency steering maneuvers is started. 
In Fig. 3, the dynamics of car-following is illustrated. 
Initially the distance between the preceding vehicle and 
the following vehicle is dw . The preceding vehicle starts 
to brake with the deceleration ap and its traveling 
distance to stop is vp2/2ap. After the reaction time T of the 
driver and the brake actuator of the following vehicle, the 
traveling distance to stop with the deceleration af is vf T+ 
vf2/2af. Therefore, the anti-collision distance can be 
obtained as 
)
22
(
22
p
p
f
f
fw a
v
a
v
Tvd −+=          (1) 
As to the computation of the braking distance, the 
time-to-collision (TTC) braking distance is applied. The 
relative distance dr dynamics at any time t between two 
vehicles can be presented as 
∫ ∫ −+−−+= tt t fpfprr dsdsasatttvtvtdtd 0 0 ))()(()))(()(()()( 0000 τ τ
(2) 
where t0 denotes the time at which the measurement of 
TTC is required. 
When the time t > t0 and dr(t)=0, TTC can be obtained as 
Tc =t-t0. Since the computation of TTC requires the 
profiles of deceleration for both preceding and following 
vehicle, here the assumptions of the maximum 
deceleration for the preceding vehicle and zero 
deceleration for the following vehicle are made, i.e., 
ap(t)= a
-
max, af (t)=0. In the computation of dbr , TTC can 
be viewed as the total delay which composes of the 
driver reaction time and the braking system actuation 
time, i.e., Tc =τtotal =τhum+τsys. The braking distance can 
then be determined by the initial distance dr(t0), and 
presented as 
2
max2
1
totaltotalrelbr avd ττ −+=        (3) 
where vrel =vf  − vp are the relative velocity at initial time 
t0 . 
To avoid the discontinuity which exists in the switch 
between the warning distance and the braking distance, 
an evaluate signal based on the rational form is given as 
Fig. 3 Illustration of the car-following dynamics [1].
 
        
brw
br
w dd
ddI −
−=            (4) 
where d is the measured headway. 
Remark 1: The accelerations of the preceding and the 
following vehicle are both assumed with the same 
maximum values, and vp is replaced by vrel , then the 
warning distance defined in (1) can be rewritten as 
0
22
)
2
)(
2
(
maxmax
d
a
vv
a
v
vd relfftotalfw +
−−+= −−τ     (5) 
The augmented offset d0 is essential to be sure that dw 
-dbr > 0; otherwise, the value of Iw will be positive for 
indicating safety while d < dbr . By examining the 
braking distance in (4) and the modified warning distance 
in (5), the low bound of d0 shall be reasonably 
constrained to the value such that d2/2max totala τ− w > dbr is 
guaranteed. 
Remark 2: The values for all parameters used in the CA 
strategy can be referred to ISO 15623 [3] in which the 
statistics are specified from many practical tests. The 
maximum deceleration for the preceding and the 
following vehicle are both given as 6 m/s2, and the delay 
time for the human and the braking system is chosen as 
0.6 s and 0.2 s, respectively. 
The evaluate signal in (4) can give a graded display 
about the event likelihood for the driver. The condition of 
Iw > 1 corresponds to d > dw , and it denotes that the 
headway distance is safe for driving. The condition of 0 
< Iw < 1 corresponds to dbr < d < dw , and this range can 
be divided into several graded degrees for warnings. If Iw 
≤ 0, then this condition corresponds to d ≤ dbr and the 
emergency braking should immediately be acted.  
The next issue is to define the graded degrees for 
condition 0 < Iw < 1. In research on traffic conflicts 
techniques, TTC has proven to be an effective measure 
for rating the severity of collision [2]. In general, only 
encounters with a minimum TTC less than 2 s are 
considered as a critical situation for drivers. Therefore, 
here we can compute Iw corresponding to TTC while the 
critical situation is encountered. By substituting (3) and 
(5) into (4), and considering the critical braking for the 
preceding vehicle (vp → 0), the warning evaluate signal 
can be rewritten as 
−
−−−=
max
2
2
max
2/
2/
av
avd
I
f
totaltotalf
w
ττ           (6) 
By arranging (6) into the following equation, 
w
f
f
total
total
f
I
a
v
v
a
v
d
−
−
++=
max
2
max
22
ττ        (7) 
The left term is the definition for TTC (vp = 0), and 
we can obtain the relation between TTC and Iw under 
different velocities, as shown in Fig. 4. 
With the increased driving velocity, TTC=2 s 
corresponds to less order of the warning evaluate signal. 
The order 0.4 which presents TTC=2 s at the high 
velocity 35 m/s (=126 km/h) is then chosen as the 
elapsed time as shown in Fig. 7. 
 
Fig. 7 Dead-Reckoning diagram 
 
This theory by mathematics method expression is as 
follows: 
i
k
ik
i
k
ik
Syy
Sxx
θ
θ
sin
cos
1
0
0
1
0
0
∑
∑
−
−
+=
+=          (8) 
x0: initial coordinate at t0
Si : displacement at t0
θi: absolute angle at t0 
 
The proposed dead-reckoning subsystem is composed 
of GPS, IMU and vehicle speed sensor on the vehicle. 
The GPS provides initial coordinate of dead-reckoning, 
then the displacement and absolute angle are obtained 
from the vehicle speed and IMU by integral. 
 
4. IMPLEMENTATION 
In order to realize these algorithms in the 
experimental vehicle, an embedded DSP platform, 
TMS6713DSK [9] and UART daughter card [10] are 
taken here. Based on characteristics of 6713DSK and 
UART daughter card, we can construct the DSP based 
serial communication embedded platform which has the 
immediate speech processing function. This embedded 
platform is used to receive signals from RTK-DGPS, 
IMU, Laser Range Finder, vehicle speed sensor, and 
transmit the vehicular dynamic information to navigation 
interface. Its hardware architecture and signal flowchart 
are shown in Fig. 8 and Fig. 9, respectively. 
We use operating system (DSP/BIOS) which was 
provided by 6713DSK to handle every algorithm as 
above and decode sensors. Use this operating system can 
administer each execution time of every algorithm 
effectively. For example, the periodic function manager 
(PRD) which is one of the DSP/BIOS functions is used 
to handle algorithms such as collision warning, 
comfort-meter and dead-reckoning. The interrupt service 
routine (ISR) is in charge of the computation of vehicle 
speed. Besides, the lower priority task performs speech 
suggestion function to remind the occupant of the vehicle 
when dangerous situation happens. 
 
Fig. 8 The hardware structure about this system 
Next when we discuss the lateral direction, the S-bend 
trajectory is the best choice. Fig. 13 lists the experimental 
data plot and we can find that during the S-bend situation, 
the ride comfort grade is fairly uncomfortable. Lastly, the 
ride comfort resulted from the vertical acceleration is a 
very good index for the suspension system and the 
quality of the road surface. Here we let Taiwan iTS-1 go 
over several bumps. The vertical accelerations go into the 
ride comfort algorithm continuously and the output 
presents the real-time comfort degree as shown in Fig. 14. 
By these operations, it is an important examination for 
the road quality. Another application is about the 
suspension system. Engineers can let the vehicle drive in 
the standard road and tune up the parameters by 
consulting the ride comfort results. 
 
5.3Dead-Reckoning 
The scenario of this experiment is at NCTU, because 
it has so many place was camouflaged as shown in Fig. 
13. The received GPS signal was shown in Fig. 15, and 
the discontinuous parts mean GPS signal floats. When 
GPS signal floats, the manipulation of dead reckoning 
will be started immediately. After that, the optimal 
navigation information of GPS/DR was estimated so that 
the navigation system can work continuously as the red 
parts of Fig. 17. 
 
6. CONCLUTION 
In this research, we have proposed an integrated 
system about the vehicle safety and driving assistance. 
Here several sensors, such as the global positioning 
system, the laser range finder, vehicle speed sensor and 
the inertial measurement unit are used to measure the 
vehicle dynamics and the environment near the vehicle. 
There are four major contributions in this paper. The first 
one is the fusion of several signals from numerous 
sensors. The second is that we consult ISO15623 and 
develop the collision warning algorithm. Next according 
to ISO2631, the ride comfort algorithm is explored and 
implemented in this paper. Last either the signal 
processing or the algorithm procedure are carried out 
within the embedded platform. Throughout many 
scenarios above, the following functions are completed. 
The experimental results have shown that when the 
preceding vehicle decreases the speed or the speed of our 
vehicle is too fast, the system will gather the relative 
signals and output the dangerous degree to remind the 
occupant of the vehicle. Besides, when the accelerations 
of the vehicle vary rapidly, the comfort-meter will yield 
the corresponding ride comfort degree by the standard of 
ISO2631. Moreover, if the GPS precision decreases as 
floating, the dead reckoning will be turn on and complete 
the self-position. Furthermore, all the information will be 
shown in the interface. 
 
7. REFERENCES 
[1] Hsin-Han Chiang, Tsu-Tian Lee, Bing-Fei Wu, and 
Jau-Woei Perng,“ Integrated Headway Adaptation 
with Collision Avoidance System for Intelligent 
Vehicles”, Accepted by IEEE International 
Conference on Systems, Man and Cybernetics 
Montreal, Canada-October 7-10, 2007. 
Fig. 15 The bird's eye view [11] 
Fig. 16 Only GPS signal 
Fig. 17 The experimental result of GPS+DR 
[2] R. Horst and J. Hogema, “Time-to-collision and 
collision avoidance systems,” in Proc. 6th ICTCT 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-027-125 
計畫名稱 智慧車輛之自主導航系統設計與實現 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
李祖添教授 
國立台北科技大學校長 
會議時間地點 2008年5月25-27日，波蘭KRAKOW市 
會議名稱 International Conference on Human System Interaction 
(HIS’08) 
發表論文題目 Fuzzy Control Using Intuitive Image Analysis 
 
一、參加會議經過 
    今年舉辦的International Conference on Human System Interaction在波
蘭Krakow市舉行，本次大會有兩百餘人參加，整個會議分四組分別舉行論
文發表，也安排了5場Keynote Lecture。 
    本人主要參加Learning and Adaptive Systems, Fuzzy Systems, Neural 
Networks，和Robotics 這幾場論文研討，並在大會中發表「Fuzzy Control 
Using Intuitive Image Analysis」。我針對這四年來在執行卓越計畫中有關
影像分析部份的 研究成果提出報告，獲得與會人士的熱烈的迴響，並有
許多人希望邀請我至他們學校演講，使我感覺對提昇我國國際學術地位，
有極大的幫助。五場Keynote Lecture均邀請國際知名人士作專題報告，報
告內容甚有深度。聽完這五場演講後，對各領域未來研究方向，有初步的
了解。這也是出席這次研討會的一大收穫。 
 
二、與會心得 
    本次會議共分下列領域分別發表論文，其中包括Modeling the human 
mind, Date Mining and Modern Heuristics in Human Systems Interaction, 
Intelligent techniques in Manufacturing, Human Systems interaction in 
Education, Next Generation Computer Supported Collaborative Media 
Environments, Stochastic modeling and Control for Biology and Engineering 
hardware / software co-design, Genetic Algorithms, Decision Making, 
Learning and Adaptive Systems, Virtual Reality Web Intelligent, Human 
Computer Interaction, Man-Machine Interaction, Fuzzy Systems, Neural 
Networks, Robotics, Data Mining等，這些文章也都收集於研討會的論文
集。這次能夠與會和許多不同背景的學者共同討論，聽他們依其背景所提
出的想法，其中有一些是我以前沒有這樣想過的問題，頗受啟發。另外，
利用這個機會，多認識一些國際傑出學者，並在未來，和這些人有更多的
互動，以隨時掌握相關最新研究動態。 
