2no phase transition in LiAlO2 crystal [8, 9]. However, LiAlO2 still has the following
disadvantages: difficult to get the single crystal, it reacted with most of the acid and
sensitive to hydrogen and nitrogen gas. In Metal Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition
(MOCVD) and Molecular Beam Epitaxy (MBE) reactor, a large quantity of H2, N2 and
NH3 gas will be used. These airs will diffuse into the LiAlO2 material and cause the
damage to the wafer.
GaN-based materials grown on LiAlO2 substrates have been studied by the different
groups. Waltereit et al. grew (1010)-oriented GaN films by MBE on LiAlO2 substrates
using MBE. They found that the GaN films possess anisotropy stress in the a-direction
almost three times as large as in the c-direction, leading to an anisotropy in dislocation
structure [10]. Chou et al. deposited a M-plane (1010) GaN LED structure on LiAlO2 by
MOCVD. As expected, no spontaneous polarization was found in this orientation [6]. Xu
also used MOCVD to grow GaN. They noted that because of a significant thermal
expansion mismatch between GaN and LiAlO2, there will be considerable compressive
stress in GaN films [11,12]. H.P. Maruska, et al [2] and B.A. Haskell, et al [3] reported
that 2”free standing GaN substrates could be grown on LiAlO2 crystals by using the
halide vapor phase epitaxy (HVPE) method.
Chou et al. had reported the crystal growth and the defect analysis of LiAlO2. The as-
grown crystal was opaque and full of cracks [13]. In the present work, more information
related to how to grow high quality LiAlO2 single crystals is reported along with
improved method to polish this materials..
2. Experimental Procedure
A stoichiometric mixture of Li2CO3 powders and Al2O3 grains, both with 99.99%
purity, was prepared for the Czochralski pulling method. Since Li2O is easy to volatilize
in both cooling and growth process, 5~10% excess of Li2CO3 in weight fraction was
added. In order to reduce the material’s volume, the raw materials were compressed into
the tablets and then heated at 1200oC for 10hrs to decompose CO2. The raw materials
were then placed in an iridium crucible. An iridium lid was used to cover the crucible to
decrease the temperature gradient and avoid Li evaporation. If the crucible was
uncovered, the melt would deviate from stoichiometric ratio because of Li evaporation.
Before, the quality of as-grown LiAlO2 crystal was poor. The crystal is opaque due to
the strong chemical decomposition and has lots of inclusions and cracks inside [13]. A
suitable thermal gradient for LiAlO2 growth is achieved by adding a ZrO2 after-heater
tube to the top of the crucible and then wrap it with two layers of ZrO2 felts (ZYF-166,
Zicar Zirconia). This would decrease the vertical temperature gradient and get rid of the
chemical decomposition. Al2O3 felts (Kaowool 3000) was tried to wrapped the after
heater also. Unfortunately, it had a strong reaction with the escaped Li2O vapor.
The crucible was then heated to approximately 1750oC to melt the raw materials.
During the growth, nitrogen gas was continuously supplied to prevent the oxidation of the
Ir crucible. Seed was along the (100) a-axis. A pulling rate of 3~5mm/hr, and a rotation
rate of 20~30rpm were used to control the growth condition. The crystals growth
atmosphere was pure nitrogen with the pressure 1103 Pa. The phase of as grown LiAlO2
crystals was identified by X-ray diffraction spectrometer.
One of the major problems with LiAlO2 substrate is the difficulty in preparing high
quality surface. Typically, sapphire substrates have a root-mean square (rms) roughness
4the extensive associated damage of the surfaces. Hence H3PO4 will be used as the
etching experiments.
A polished LiAlO2 specimen was immersed in a 85％ H3PO4 acid with the different
etching time, 60, 85 and 100 seconds. Fig. 4(a) showed an AFM image of a LiAlO2
specimen which was soaked in H3PO4 for 60 seconds for etching and washed first with
acetone and then with deionized water. A rms roughness between 3.0 to 4.0nm for the
surface of the LiAlO2 crystal was formed. Fig. 4(b) shows the same material immersed
for 85 seconds. The sample surface was significantly smoother and the surface roughness
value was only in 0.4~0.5nm which is about the same as sapphire. However if increasing
chemical etching time to 100 seconds or even longer, the surface starts to get damaged
and the roughness rises to 3.0 ~ 4.0 nm again, Fig. 4(c). A couple of LiAlO2 samples are
prepared from the same crystal boule for these polishing experiments and always obtain
the same results.
4. Conclusion
In summary, the Czochralski growth of LiAlO2 single crystals was investigated. Two
crystals are presented in this study. At the first run, a ZrO2 after-heater tube was added to
the top of the crucible. The bottom of the crystal is opaque and milky. Lots of inclusions
precipitates formed at the lower portion of the crystal. At the second run, a proper
thermal gradient is achieved by wrapping the after-heater with the ZrO2 felts. This would
decrease the vertical temperature gradient. The second crystal is clear and shinny on the
surface. Unfortunately, the crystal grows a strong facet because of the strong forced
convection. The crystal shape did not become symmetrical until ramping down the
rotation rate. The as-grown LiAlO2 single crystals was identified as γ-phase which has a
tetragonal structure. A polishing method to obtain a smooth surface of a scratch-free
LiAlO2 crystal with a rms roughness less than 0.5nm was proposed. The polishing
process comprises four different steps. SiC, Al2O3 and SiO2 powders with the respective
grain-size sequences were used as the polishing solutions. And then, LiAlO2 specimen
was etched by H3PO4 acids The images of optical microscopy showed that LiAlO2
surface treated by H3PO4 (85％) chemical etching after polished exhibits a significantly
better surface smoothness as compared to treated by other acid solutions. Also, the
average surface roughness of 0.483 nm has been measured by AFM.
Acknowledgments
This work is supported by NSC of Taiwan, NSC94-2218-E-110-008, ACORC, Aim
for the Top University Plan and Center for Nanoscience & Nanotechnology of National
Sun Yat-Sen University, Taiwan.
References
1. Y.J. Sun, O. Brandt, U. Jahn, T.Y. Liu, A. Trampert, S. Cronenberg, S. Dhar, K.H.
Ploog, J. Appl. Phys., 92 (2002) 5714.
2. H.P. Maruska, D.W. Hill, M.C. Chou, J.J. Gallagher, B. Chai, Opto-Electronics Rev.,
11(1) (2003) 7.
3. B.A. Haskell, T.J. Baker, M.B. Mclaurin, F. Wu, P.T. Fini, S.P. Denbaars, J.S. Speck,
S. Nakamura, Appl. Phys. Lett. 86 (2005) 111917.
4. B. Rau, P. Waltereit, O. Brandt, M. Ramsteiner, K.H. Ploog, J. Puls, F. Henneberger,
6Fig. 2. LiAlO2 single crystals with the (100) growth orientation. Two layers of ZrO2
felts were wrapped around ZrO2 after-heater tube. Bubbles are found near the bottom.
bubbles
Fig. 3. Optical microscope images of LiAlO2 after immersing into the
different acids for 60 seconds: (a) H3PO4 (b) HCl (c) HNO3 (d) H2SO4.
