中文摘要 
 低溫氮化鋁鎵與氮化鎵金屬-半導體-金屬
紫外光光檢測器在 5 伏特時的蕭特基障壁
高度是 0.781, 0.992 and 0.998 時暗電流
分別為 8.3x10-9, 3.3x10-12 and 1.1x10-12 安
培。 
關鍵詞: 金屬-半導體-金屬光檢測器，低溫
成長，氮化鋁鎵 
英文摘要 
We report the fabrication of AlGaN 
metal-semiconductor-metal (MSM) ultraviolet 
(UV) photodetectors with low temperature 
(LT)-AlGaN and LT-GaN cap layers. It was 
found that dark current was 8.3x10
-9
, 3.3x10
-12
 
and 1.1x10
-12
 A under 5 V applied bias while 
the effective Schottky barrier heights were 
0.781, 0.992 and 0.998 eV for the AlGaN 
photodetectors without cap layer, with 
LT-GaN cap layer and with LT-AlGaN cap 
layer, respectively. It was also found that 
maximum responsivities were 0.0361, 0.0328 
and 0.0315 A/W for the AlGaN photodetectors 
without cap layer, with LT-GaN cap layer and 
with LT-AlGaN cap layer, respectively. 
Keywords: AlGaN, low-temperature grown, 
MSM photodetector 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 GaN-based materials are suitable for 
devices operating at high temperature and 
high power. These materials are chemically 
stable and exhibit wide bandgap energy. 
Indeed, GaN-based light emitting diodes 
(LEDs) and laser diodes (LDs) are already 
commercially available. GaN is also suitable 
for visible-blind (i.e., λ < 400 nm) 
photodetectors operating in ultraviolet (UV) 
spectral region. Indeed, various types of GaN 
photodetectors including photoconductors [1], 
p-n junction photodetectors [2-3], 
metal-semiconductor-metal (MSM) 
photodetectors [4-6] and Schottky barrier 
photodetectors [6-8] have all been 
demonstrated. These visible-blind GaN 
photodetectors can be used to detect hazard 
UV-A (i.e., 315 - 400 nm) light. Compared 
with photomultiplier tubes and gas-ionization 
chambers, visible-blind GaN photodetectors 
are cost effective and compact in size. 
Visible-blind GaN photodetectors also exhibit 
long life time and low operation voltage. 
Instead of visible-blind, one needs to use 
solar-blind (i.e., λ < 280 nm) photodetectors 
for applications such as flame detection, 
missile plume detection and space 
communications. To shorten the cut-off 
wavelength, one can incorporate Al into GaN 
epitaxial layers. It is known that AlGaN 
exhibits a large direct bandgap ranging from 
3.41 to 6.2 eV at room temperature. Thus, 
AlGaN is ideal for solar-blind photodetectors. 
 
 
 II. EXPERIMENT 
The AlGaN MSM photodetectors with 
LT cap layers used in this report were all 
epitaxially grown on c-face sapphire 
substrates by a Nippon Sanso SR2000 
metalorganic chemical vapor deposition 
(MOCVD) system using trimenthylgallium 
(TMGa), trimethyaluminium (TMA) and 
ammonia (NH3) as the sources of Ga, Al, and 
N, respectively. The structure consists a 
25-nm-thick LT GaN nucleation layer, a 
2.81-μm-thick unintentionally doped GaN 
of LT-AlGaN. 
Figure 1(b) shows I-V characteristics of the 
fabricated AlGaN MSM UV photodetectors 
under illumination. It was found that 
photocurrents measured from AlGaN 
photodetectors with LT-(Al)GaN cap layers 
were larger than that measured from 
conventional AlGaN photodetector without 
cap layer. This could be attributed to the 
absorption of incident light by the cap layers. 
It was also found that photocurrent measured 
from the AlGaN photodetector with 
LT-AlGaN cap layer was slightly smaller than 
that measured from AlGaN photodetector with 
LT-GaN cap layer due to the slightly larger 
Schottky barrier height. Using the data shown 
in figures 1(a) and 1(b), we can calculate 
photo-to-dark current contrast ratio of the 
fabricated photodetectors. As shown in figure 
2, it was found that we achieved the highest 
photo-to-dark current contrast ratio from the 
AlGaN photodetector with LT-AlGaN cap 
layer, followed by the AlGaN photodetector 
with LT-GaN cap layer. It was also found that 
photo-to-dark current contrast ratio of the 
conventional AlGaN photodetector was much 
smaller. With 5 V applied bias, it was found 
that photo-to-dark current contrast ratios were 
6.17, 6.55x10
3
 and 1.94x10
4
 for the AlGaN 
photodetectors without cap layer, with 
LT-GaN cap layer and with LT-AlGaN cap 
layer, respectively. In other words, we 
achieved 3000 times larger photo-to-dark 
current contrast ratio by using the LT-AlGaN 
cap layer. more than 3000 times. 
Figure 3 shows measure spectral 
responses of the three fabricated AlGaN MSM 
UV photodetectors. It was found that cutoff 
occurred at 320 nm all three photodetectors. It 
was also found that along wavelength 
absorption (i.e., λ > 320 nm) was much more 
significant for the two photodetectors with 
LT-(Al)GaN cap layers. Furthermore, it was 
found that maximum responsivities were 
0.0361, 0.0328 and 0.0315 A/W for the 
AlGaN photodetectors without cap layer, with 
LT-GaN cap layer and with LT-AlGaN cap 
layer, respectively. Compared with the 
conventional AlGaN photodetector, the 
smaller maximum responsivities and more 
significant long wavelength absorption 
observed from the two AlGaN photodetectors 
with LT-(Al)GaN cap layers should be 
attributed to the absorption of the cap layers. 
We can also calculate quantum efficiencies of 
the three fabricated photodetectors by the 
following equation: 
hc
q
R

   
where R is the measured responsivity,  is the 
quantum efficiency, q is the electron charge, λ 
is the incident light wavelength, h is the 
Planck constant, c is the speed of light. Using 
this equation, it was found that the maximum 
quantum efficiencies for the AlGaN 
photodetectors without cap layer, with 
LT-GaN cap layer and with LT-AlGaN cap 
layer were 13.99%, 12.60% and 12.31%, 
