 2 
1. Introduction 
Proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) 
have great potential for use in movable and stationary 
power supply applications. The major advantages of a 
direct methanol fuel cell (DMFC) over PEMFCs an 
on-board methanol reformer include the simplicity of 
the overall system, rapid start-up, ease of maintenance 
and others. However, two points concerning the high 
efficiency of DMFCs must be addressed. The first 
concerns the development of the high-activity anode 
catalyst with a suitable anode structure for direct 
methanol oxidation [1-6]. The second concerns the 
prevention of the crossover of methanol from the anode 
to the cathode through the proton exchange membrane 
(PEM). Methanol crossover markedly reduces both the 
cathode potential and fuel utilization by a chemical 
short-circuit reaction of the crossed-over methanol with 
O2 at the cathode.  
Methanol crossover in Nafion® membranes has 
been examined to optimize operating conditions and 
improve performance [7]. Efforts to develop new PEMs 
with reduced crossover effect have also been made 
[8-11]. Wainright et al. [8-11] developed acid-doped 
polybenzimidazole new PEM to suppress methanol 
crossover. The results reveal that the suppression of 
methanol crossover by this new PEM exceeds that of 
the Nafion membrane by one order of magnitude and 
the performance is the same. This new PEM can 
conduct protons at 130~150℃, and can thereby operate 
with vapor methanol as the anode fuel. Methanol 
crossover is efficiently prevented by incorporating a 
suitable amount of Ce4+ ions into the PEM [12]. Metal 
hybrid materials, such as Pd, have coated onto the 
surface of Nafion® membrane as barriers to methanol 
[13]. This sandwich structure offers superior 
suppression of methanol crossover, but substantially 
reduces the membrane electrode assembly (MEA) 
performance. 
In the past, the impregnation-reduction (IR) 
method was usually employed to fabricate water 
electrolysis electrodes [14-16]. Fujiwara et al. [17] was 
the first to use the IR method to prepare a MEA for the 
DMFC. They found that the advantages of the IR 
method in preparing a catalyst layer are the ease of 
controlling the alloy composition, the loadings, the 
layer thickness and the adhesion of the Pt-Ru alloy 
catalyst onto the PEM. The obtained catalyst layer has a 
porous microstructure, which facilitates the release of 
the evolved CO2. The IR method reduces the risk of 
electrodes’ peeling from the PEM because of the 
swelling of the PEM on the absorbing methanol. It use 
is attractive in applications of various solid polymer 
electrolyte materials with low heat-resistance and 
various shapes, and the resulting catalytic layer is 
embedded in the 3-4μm region of the membrane 
surface to produce a porous and hydrophilic layer.  
Chemical reduction is a typical approach for 
preparing nanometer-sized metal particles in solution. 
The IR method has been shown great potential in the 
preparation of nanometer-sized Pt particles or a Pt layer 
in the PEM [18]. Uchida et al. [18] described new 
PEMs with highly dispersed nanometer-sized Pt 
particles to suppress methanol crossover in the DMFC. 
They found that the effective recombination of the 
crossed-over CH3OH and O2 at the catalytic platinum 
sites reduced the amount of methanol that reached the 
cathode.  
A layer of nanometer-sized Pt37-Ru63/Pt or 
Pt37-Ru63/Pt20-Ru80 catalyst particles dispersed in the 
side of a PEM anode as the “filter” layer of methanol, 
were prepared by the IR method. Figure 1 presents the 
proposed “filter” layer structure of methanol in PEM 
and the MEAs in this work. The actual oxidation of 
methanol to generate electrons and protons occurs 
primarily at the catalyst layer (Pt50-Ru50/C), which was 
formed by the direct printing method on the surface of 
the PEM. The gas diffusion layer, which undergoes hot 
pressing with PEM that contains the direct-printed 
catalyst layer to form the MEA, is screen-printed on 
two Pt50-Ru50 catalyst layers to extend the oxidation 
reaction area into a three-dimensional reaction zone. 
The effects of a layer of nanometer-sized catalyst 
particles dispersed in PEM on the suppression of 
methanol crossover and MEA performance are studied. 
2. Experiment 
Figure 1 presents diagrams of the two membrane 
electrode assemblies (MEAs) that are used herein. (The 
“NCL“ and “GDL” symbols stand for “Nafion-carbon 
layer” and “Gas diffusion layer”). The differences 
among them are in the anode side of the PEM, which as 
shown in Figure 1(A), comprises two layers of the 
Pt37-Ru63 and Pt nano-particles. These two layers are 
obtained by reducing Pt-Ru ions and a Pt ion separately 
by impregnation-reduction in a PEM, such that two 
layers alternate, to yield the required three-dimensional 
reaction zone. This structure is denoted PEM-I The 
corresponding sample is MEA-1. The loadings of the 
two layers of Pt37-Ru63 and Pt nano-particles in PEM 
are 0.09 and 0.09 mg cm-2, respectively (as given in 
Table 1). The anode Pt50-Ru50 catalyst loading on GDL 
and PEM was totally 1.62 mg cm-2. The layers in the 
PEM that are displayed in Figure 1(B) are similar to 
those in PEM-I. The only difference between them is 
that in the latter, the first layer in PEM is a Pt20-Ru80 
layer rather than a Pt layer. This second structure is 
denoted PEM-II and the corresponding sample is 
MEA-2. The loadings of the two layers of Pt37-Ru63 and 
Pt20-Ru80 nano-particles dispersed in PEM are 0.09 and 
0.09 mg cm-2, respectively (as indicated in Table 1). 
These loadings are same to that of PEM-I. The anode 
Pt50-Ru50 catalyst loading on GDL and PEM was totally 
1.63 mg cm-2. Figure 1(C) reveals no metal layer on the 
side of the anode in PEM. The structure and catalyst 
loadings of the anode and cathode of this MEA are 
identical to those of MEA-1 and MEA-2. This MEA is 
considered as a reference MEA in comparing the 
suppression of methanol crossover by MEA-1 and 
MEA-2. The corresponding sample is denoted 
normal-MEA and the anode Pt50-Ru50 catalyst loading 
was totally 1.65 mg cm-2. Notably, the anode Pt50-Ru50 
catalyst loadings of all MEAs are almost equal, at about 
1.63 mg cm-2. However, the cathodes of all the MEAs 
are prepared by printing the Pt catalyst layer on GDL 
and PEM. Table 1 presents the cathode loadings of all 
studied MEAs, which are approximately 2.26 mg cm-2. 
A 50% wet proof carbon cloth is used as the gas 
diffusion layer. 20% Pt50-Ru50/C, supplied by the 
E-TEK Division of De Nora, Inc., USA is applied as 
the electrocatalyst in the anode of all MEAs. 40wt% Pt 
on Vulcan XC-72 (40% Pt/C) is the electrocatalyst in 
the cathode (E-TEK Division of De Nora, Inc., USA). 
A 5wt% Nafion solution, in H+ form, supplied by 
DuPont, Inc., USA, is used as the proton conductive 
agent in the catalyst layer. The carbon powder used as 
the backing layer is Vulcan XC-72. HPLC-grade 
solvents are used to prepare the catalyst slurry. The 
fabrications of the electrodes and the MEAs as well as 
the measurements of the polarization curves of various 
MEAs are described below.  
 4 
Diluted methanol and dry oxygen gas are fed into the 
cell at flow rates of 1.0 and 100.0 mL min-1, 
respectively. The current-voltage (I-V) characteristics 
of the cell were measured at various temperatures and 
methanol concentrations, as mentioned above. 
3. Results and discussion  
3.1. Microstructure and morphology of PEM-I and -II  
Table 1 presents the loading and specific 
characteristics of the two layers in PEM as well as the 
anode and cathode that form the MEAs. The PEM-I 
with only first layer of Pt in PEM was verified by the 
EPMA result from the cross-sectional view of this 
sample. The peak position in the sulfur elemental 
distribution profile is prior to the peak position of Pt 
elemental distribution profile by 1μm, revealing the 
existence of the first layer for the PEM-I. Figure 2(A) 
shows an SEM image of the first layer of PEM-I. 
Apparently, the layer has a porous coral-like, rather 
than a ball-like particle, microstructure. Figure 3(A) 
and 3(B) present the distribution profiles of elemental 
Pt and Ru for PEM-I containing the first and second 
layers in PEM, respectively. There is only one peak in 
both of the Pt and Ru elemental distribution profiles 
and the layer thickness is about 2μm, indicating no 
layer boundary exists between the first and second 
layers. The estimated thicknesses of the first and second 
layers are about 1μm, respectively. Figure 2(B) depicts 
the microstructure of the surface of the second 
deposited layer of the PEM-I. The observed 
microstructure clearly differs from first layer and is in 
the form of clusters with sizes of about 10nm or less. 
Grazing incident X-ray diffraction (GID) was 
conducted to obtain the X-ray diffraction pattern at an 
X-ray incidence angle of 1˚, verifying the phases of the 
cluster particle layer. Figures 4(A) and 4(B) exhibit 
X-ray diffraction patterns of the first and second layers 
in the PEM-I, respectively. Figure 4(D) shows the 
X-ray diffraction pattern of the pure Ru that was 
deposited by the IR method. The X-ray diffraction 
pattern in Figure 4(A) includes characteristic peaks of 
the Pt element at 39.5°, 46.1° and 67.8°, which are the 
peaks associated with the Pt (111), Pt(200) and Pt(220) 
faces. This result verifies that the first layer in PEM is a 
layer of a pure deposited Pt cluster. The X-ray 
diffraction pattern of the second layer in PEM, which is 
shown in Figure 4(B), has the characteristic peaks of Pt 
and Ru. The characteristic peak of the Pt element is 
sharp at 39.6°, and is associated with the Pt (111) face, 
(as presented in Figure 3(A)). In contrast, no peak is 
observed at the corresponding peak position for pure 
Ru. Accordingly, this Pt (111) face peak is selected as 
the reference peak to confirm the presence of the alloy 
phase by comparing the lattice constants of pure Pt and 
the obtained Pt-Ru. Bragg’s equation yields lattice 
constants for pure Pt and Pt-Ru of 3.920 and 3.804Å, 
respectively. The lattice constant of Pt-Ru is clearly 
smaller than that of pure Pt, suggesting that the second 
layer of PEM-I is an Pt-Ru alloy [17]. The intensity of 
the peak at 40.9° from the deposited Pt-Ru is lower 
than that of pure Pt, indicating that the elemental Pt 
content in the alloy is low. The substrate effect of the 
GID method prevents the determination of the 
composition of the thin film from the lattice parameter 
that is derived from XRD. Electron probe 
micro-analysis (EPMA), which can accurately measure 
the atomic ratio of the thin film, is applied to elucidate 
the composition of the thin film of nanoparticles. The 
EPMA result (a mean over 25 sampling points) 
demonstrates that the atomic ratio of Pt:Ru is 37:63. 
Therefore, the atomic ratio of Pt to Ru in the alloy is 
37:63. Summarizing the result from EPMA, SEM and 
X-ray, PEM-I has a layer of nanometer-sized catalyst 
particle dispersed in PEM surface with different 
composition according to the designed conditions and 
procedures. Notably, the first layer of Pt and the second 
layer of Pt37-Ru63 are totally mixed. Most of the Pt-Ru 
is distributed close to the directly printed catalyst layer 
on the surface of the PEM, whereas the platinum is 
concentrated in the inner layer with a thickness of 
approximately 1.0μm.  
The structure of PEM-II is similar to that of 
PEM-I. The only difference between them lies in the 
first layer in PEM, which is a layer of Pt-Ru in PEM-II. 
Figure 2(C) shows an SEM image of the first layer of 
PEM-II. This first layer was verified by the EPMA 
result from the cross-sectional view of the PEM-II with 
only first layer treatment (the layer thickness revealed 
by the EPMA is about 1μm). The layer clearly has a 
ball-like microstructure, which differs from that 
presented in Figure 2(B), and the particles form clusters 
with sizes from 10 to 13nm. Figure 4(C) presents the 
X-ray diffraction pattern obtained at an X-ray incidence 
angle of 1˚ from the first layer of PEM-II. Bragg’s 
equation yields a lattice constant of 3.735Ǻ for this 
layer. The lattice constant is clearly smaller than that of 
the pure Pt, revealing the presence of an alloy phase in 
the first layer of PEM-II. The X-ray and EPMA results 
(a mean over 25 sampling points) verify that the nano 
clusters are of Pt-Ru alloy with an atomic ratio of 20:80. 
Figure 5 plots an EPMA cross-sectional view of 
PEM-II. The analysis indicates that the second layer of 
Pt37-Ru63 and the first layer of Pt20-Ru80 are totally 
mixed. The total thickness is around 2μm, which is 
same to that of PEM-I. Accordingly, PEM-II exhibits a 
layer of nanometer-sized catalyst particle dispersed in 
PEM surface with different composition of Pt37-Ru63 
and Pt20-Ru80.  
3.2. Polarization curves and methanol crossover rate  
The polarization curves in Figure 6 are obtained 
using 2M and 3M concentrations of methanol as the 
anode fuel at a cell temperature of 80℃ under ambient 
pressure. The solid and hollow symbols plot the 
polarization curves measured at 2M and 3M 
concentrations of methanol, respectively. At these 
methanol concentrations, the performance of all MEAs 
is similar in the kinetic region, supporting similar anode 
and cathode loadings. However, MEA-1 and -2 with 
nanometer-sized catalyst particles dispersed in the PEM 
anode side outperform the normal-MEA in the ohmic 
polarization region. This result reveals that the dispersal 
of a layer containing the Pt37-Ru63/Pt or 
Pt37-Ru63/Pt20-Ru80 particles in PEM increases the cell 
performance.  
The amount of crossed over methanol at the 
cathode side was monitored by determining the 
steady-state concentration of CO2 in the cathode 
exhaust (after trapping water in an ice trap), using CO2 
sensor. The crossover rate of methanol is calculated 
from the production of CO2. All CO2 concentrations 
remain steady after 20 minutes. Figure 7 shows the 
variation of the crossover rate as a function of the 
current density drawn from the DMFCs at cell 
temperature of 80℃ with dry oxygen feed to the 
cathode. The variation in cell potential, simultaneously 
measured, is also shown in figure 6. It is clear that the 
j(CH3OH) is reduced by the presence of dispersed 
Pt37-Ru63/Pt or Pt37-Ru63/Pt20-Ru80 particles in PEM. 
For example, at Tcell=80℃ and at 100 mA cm-2 with 2M 
concentration of methanol, the j(CH3OH) for MEA-1 
 6 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Diagrams of proposed PEM structures 
and MEAs; (A) PEM-I and MEA-1; 
(B) PEM-II and MEA-2; (C) 
Normal-PEM and normal MEA. 
 
 
Figure 2. SEM images (x100k and x200k) of (A) 
first Pt layer in PEM-I; (B) second 
deposited Pt37-Ru63 layer in PEM-I; (C) 
first deposited Pt20-Ru80 layer in 
PEM-II. 
 
 8 
 
Figure 5. Cross-sectional view EPMA image (x 5k) of PEM-II (white line represents sampling line). 
(A). Elemental Pt distribution profile; (B). Elemental Ru distribution profile.  
 
 
  
 
Figure 6. Polarization curves for various MEAs fed with 2M or 3M methanol fuel at 80℃ (cell 
temperature) under ambient pressure. 
 
