報告內容  
 
前言 
Salmonella infection of humans and animals continues to be a serious health problem 
worldwide (Chiu CH, Su LH, et al. 2004). Nontyphoidal salmonellosis is one of the 
commonest causes of bacterial enterocolitis in Taiwan and causes morbidity and mortality. 
It may present with mild self-limited diarrhea bloody diarrhea with abdominal distention, 
severe toxic megacolon, and bowel perforation. Approximately 5% of individuals with 
gastrointestinal illness caused by nontyphoid Salmonella serotypes develop bacteremia 
(Chiu CH, Su LH, et al. 2004). Bacterial translocation from the gastrointestinal tract to 
blood (septicemia), gall bladder (cholecystitis), and the urinary system (e.g. urinary tract 
infection) may also develop in some sick children. 
 
Specific diagnosis of Salmonellosis by conventional culture and identification 
methods usually requires 2 to 4 days (Metzler J, Nachamkin I. 1988). The antibiotics 
resistance shown by clear zones which are caused by antibiotic discs on the cultured 
plates also takes at least three days. Prior to acquiring the result of antibiotic resistance 
tests, the pediatrician is forced to treat the patient with an empirical antibiotic such as 
ampicillin which may not be useful. Salmonellosis is the second most common cause of 
bacterial gastroenteritis, yet the yield from routine stool culture is low. Commonly used 
selective enteric media have poor specificities for Salmonella identification, resulting in a 
high laboratory workload (O'Neill W, Cooke RP, et al. 2003). Only about 70-80% of the 
patients’ stool samples can yield Salmonella by conventional cultures probably because 
of partial antibiotic treatment before collecting the stools or even when no antibiotic is 
given (Nye KJ, Fallon D, et al. 2002; O'Neill W, Cooke RP, et al. 2003; Ruiz J, Nunez 
ML, et al. 1996). Under these circumstances, pediatricians can adjust antibiotic therapy 
only according to patients’ clinical presentations and appropriate antibiotic treatment may 
be delayed. 
Antibiotic resistance has been increasingly reported all parts of the world. 
Undoubtedly, the use of antibiotic in clinical practice has been responsible for the 
selection of resistant organisms. Prior to the mid-1950s, the majority of commensal and 
detect rapidly Salmonella spp. and its antibiotic resistance. Although these methods are 
powerful tools, the disadvantage of these methods is that the antibiotic resistance genes 
are required to be identified and sequenced for probe design. Hence, these methods 
cannot detect antibiotic resistance strains with unidentified antibiotic resistance genes. 
 
研究方法 
Labeling antibody with colloidal gold. Gold nanoparticles were coated with 
immunoglobulin G against Salmonella. At room temperature, 4µL of antibody was added 
in 1mL of gold nanoparticles solution containing 0.04% trisodium citrate and 0.26 mM 
potassium carbonate. The mixture was gently mixed for 16 hours, blocked by 100µL of 
10% BSA solution for 30min at room temperature and centrifuged at 6000g for 20min at 
4℃. After centrifugation, the oiled drop was washed by washing buffer and resuspended 
in 1mL of PBS (pH 7.4) as assay solution. 
 
Colony-Print Gold-Nanoparticle Immunoassay. Agar plates which were spread or 
streaked with different bacteria were incubated to form colonies. A dry nitrocellulose 
paper was gently put on the agar surface with the only press from the paper’s own weight, 
after which the membrane was slowly lifted off. This procedure resulted in the transfer of 
surface cells of the colonies to the nitrocellulose membrane which was referred to as a 
colony print in the following discussion. After the procedure, most cells of each colony 
remained on the master plate without any distortion of the pattern. Then the membrane 
was kept for 15 minutes at room temperature to further immobilize samples. The binding 
is due to both electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions between nitrocellulose and 
proteins on the surface of the cells. The membrane was soaked in 5% skim milk for 1 
hour to block the rest of nitrocellulose. Then the membrane was soaked in assay solution 
containing antibody-coated gold nanoparticles for 30 minutes at room temperature. The 
membrane then was soaked in PBS for 30 minutes to wash out unbinding nanoparticles. 
 
Silver enhancement method. In order to detect very low levels of Salmonella, silver 
enhancement reagents were used to intensify the signal of the gold nanoparticles. The 
above tested membranes were soaked in silver enhancer solutions (cat. no. SE-100, 
