 2 
or DCM, the operation of the converter is under constant- 
frequency-mode control; when SYNC is high, the operation 
of the converter is under hybrid control and the operational 
modes of the converter can be automatically judged by the 
proposed novel PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control circuit even 
the operational parameters of the converter are changed. In 
Fig.1, it consists of about eight basic functional blocks. In 
addition to the basic blocks of the comparator, error amplifier, 
PWM control logic circuit, current sensing circuit, and driver 
circuit which have been discussed in the past literatures [6~9], 
there are other necessary blocks to realize the above 
mentioned PWM/PFM hybrid control functions. Here, this 
paper mainly proposes these novel circuits suitable to be 
applied to the blocks.  
   
II. DISABLING CIRCUIT OF NEGATIVE INDUCTOR 
CURRENT 
The efficiency of the buck converter with disabling 
negative inductor current has already been verified to be more 
significantly improved than that of the conventional buck 
converter [4,5]. As the inductor current is below zero, the 
 
Fig. 1 A current-mode buck converter chip with integrated PWM/PFM 
hybrid-mode control  
 
synchronous rectifier switch of the converter must be turned 
off to increase the efficiency. However, the common 
current-sensing circuits in DC-DC converter chips only sense 
the turn-on part of the main switch. The turn-off part has not 
been sensed, thus the exact cross point of zero inductor 
current can not be built by using these methods [6~8]. Here, 
the zero current detecting circuit in [1] is used to sense the 
exact point of zero inductor current.  
The real control circuit for disabling the negative inductor 
current is shown in Fig. 2. The operational principle of this 
circuit is as follows. In CCM, when the main switch MP is 
turned on and the synchronous rectifier switch MN is turned 
off, current is charged to the inductor. At this moment, the 
voltage in Vx  end is positive. Whereas as the main switch MP 
is turned off and the synchronous rectifier switch MN is turned 
on, in order to maintain the original polarity the inductor 
current begins to discharge at the same time. At this time, the 
voltage in Vx  end is negative. But once the inductor is at 
light load, the synchronous rectifier switch is not turned off in 
time, the voltage in Vx end will become positive when the 
inductor current enters negative [1]. The relation about the 
circuit in all the above situations is listed in Table I. Then, 
according to Table I, the synchronous rectifier switch of the 
converter can be seen to be automatically turned off when 
operating in the negative inductor current in order to reduce 
the loss of the reverse inductor current.  
P
. PWM/PFM HYBRID-MODE CONTROL CIRCUIT 
In order to realize a DC-DC converter chip with the 
feature of low voltage, high efficiency, and wider load range, 
this paper uses the PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control [3,9~11]. 
When the inductor current is in CCM, the converter is 
operated by constant-frequency-mode control. Once the 
inductor current is below zero, the operating mode of the 
Amplifier Comparator
VDD
Vx
MP
MN
R
S
D_Q
Z_C
NP
NN
Vx
Q
QB D_QB
Fig. 2 Disabling circuit of negative inductor current  
Table I Relation of node potential 
Node 
 
Operate 
mode 
D_QB D_Q Vx Z_C NP NN 
0 1 Q 0 0 0 0 
CCM 
1 0 R 0 1 1 1 
DCM 1 0 Q 0 0 1 0 
 
converter can be automatically changed from constant- 
frequency-mode control to variable-frequency-mode control. 
At this moment, the switching frequency of converter is 
decreased proportionally with the load to reduce the high 
switching loss at light load. In addition, the synchronous 
rectifier switch will be turned off at the same time in order to 
reduce the reverse conduction loss. 
To improve the efficiency at light load, the converter can 
be operated in a pulse frequency modulation mode. In the 
PFM mode, the converter is operated in DCM at a switching 
frequency that depends on the load. For dc-dc converters 
 4 
two discharging paths. When the converter is operated in 
CCM, the aforementioned CCM/DCM boundary detecting 
circuit sends a low signal to start MOSFET M13 and close 
MOSFET M10. So the path 2 is used for the constant- 
frequency-mode control. At this moment, the discharging 
current at path 2 will be mirrored to discharge the current of 
the discharging capacitor of the oscillator by the two current 
mirrors (M6,M7) and (M8,M9). So the MOSFET M6 will keep 
turn on to let the discharging current of the discharging 
capacitor be decided by the current at path 2.  
Once the converter is operated in DCM, the CCM/DCM 
boundary detecting circuit sends a high signal to start 
MOSFET M10 and close MOSFET M13. So the converter uses 
path 1 to discharge for variable-frequency-mode control. At 
this moment the discharging current at path 1 will be also 
mirrored to discharge the current of the discharging capacitor 
of the oscillator by the two current mirrors. So the MOSFET 
M6 still keeps on-state to let the discharging current of the 
discharging capacitor be decided by the current at path 1. 
The discharging current for variable-frequency-mode 
control is decided by the error signal Vea, reference voltage 
Vref, and resistor R2 as shown in Fig. 5. When the load of the 
converter drops, the output voltage will rise, so the error 
signal Vea will drops. As a result, when the load of the 
converter is becoming more and more light, the discharging 
current (Vea - Vref ) / R2 at path 1 is becoming more and more 
small, immediately. So the discharging time of the oscillator 
will be extended. In other words, the switching frequency of 
the oscillator will be reduced proportionally with the load to 
come true the variable frequency function.   
 
 
Fig. 5 Proposed PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control circuit 
 
In addition, the operation modes of converter can be 
selected by an external voltage signal. We series and parallel 
the synchronous switches (SYNC) at path 1 and path 2 
respectively as shown in Fig. 5. When the SYNC signal is 
high, the synchronous switches M11 and M14 are turned on and 
turned off respectively. So the converter’s operation mode at 
the moment will be decided by the CCM/DCM boundary 
detecting circuit. When the inductor current is in CCM, the 
converter is operated at constant-frequency-mode (PWM) 
control; when the inductor current is in DCM, the converter is 
operated at variable-frequency-mode (PFM) control. 
On the other hand, when the SYNC signal is low, the 
synchronous switches M11 and M14 are turned off and turned 
on respectively. In this case, no matter the inductor current is 
in CCM or DCM, the circuit discharges from path 2 to 
ground. So the converter at this time is only operated at 
constant-frequency-mode (PWM) control. 
S
. SIMULATION AND TEST RESULTS 
The DC-DC buck converter with novel PWM/PFM 
hybrid-mode control circuit has already been detailed 
explained above. Now the simulation and test waveforms for 
the DC-DC buck converter with novel PWM/PFM 
hybrid-mode control circuit will be used to verify the 
proposed circuit can work functionally and obtain the 
expected performance. 
Fig. 6 shows the test circuit for a DC-DC buck converter 
with PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control. The specification of 
the proposed PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control circuit is 
shown in Table II. The simulation and test results for the 
inductor current, the main switch and the synchronous 
rectifier switch are shown in Figs. 7 and 8 for different 
operating modes and loads. These results prove that the 
inductor current will be cut off as it is below zero with 
different operating modes and loads to reduce the negative 
conduction loss. In addition, the main switch and the 
synchronous rectifier switch can operate normally, too.  
 
Fig. 6 Test circuit for a buck converter with PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control 
 
Table II 
Specification of the proposed PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control 
Item Specification 
Input voltage VIN = 5V 
Output voltage Vo = 3.3V 
Full load Io_full = 500mA 
 6 
 
(c) Variable-frequency-mode (PFM) control at DCM (IL = 50mA)   
 
 
(d) Variable-frequency-mode (PFM) control at DCM (IL = 20mA) 
Fig. 8 Experimental waveforms of Li (500mA/div), MpgsV , (5V/div), 
MngsV , (5V/div), and xV (5V/div) 
  Fig. 9(a) TVUXW7Y ZX[ show the measurement for the load current 
iL versus output voltage Vo when the converter is operated at 
constant-frequency-mode control and hybrid-mode control, 
respectively. These test results verify that when the converter 
is operated at hybrid-mode control, the output voltage of 
converter is approximately steady in 3.3V with different 
operating modes and loads. However, if the converter is 
operated at constant-frequency-mode control, the output 
voltage will be much deviated from 3.3V when the load is 
about below 150 mA. Therefore, the hybrid-model control 
can effectively extend the load operating range of converter.  
   
0 100 200 300 400 500
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
Load current (mA)
V
o
 
(V
)
 
(a) Constant-frequency-mode control (SYNC = Low) 
0 100 200 300 400 500
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
Load current (mA)
V
o
 
(V
)
 
(b) Hybrid-mode control (SYNC = High) 
Fig. 9 Measurements of load current vs. output voltage  
 
\
. CONCLUSIONS 
  For the low-voltage and low-power applications, the 
synchronous rectifier technology has been widely used. 
However, the disadvantage of this topology is its low 
efficiency at light load, due to the higher conduction loss and 
gate drive loss. In order to improve the efficiency at light load, 
this paper proposes a novel topology by utilizing the 
PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control. The advantages of 
PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control technique include several 
items below. 
1). A novel PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control topology has 
been presented. The operation modes of the converter 
can be selected by an external voltage signal (SYNC). 
When SYNC is a low signal, the converter will be 
operated at the constant-frequency-mode control; When 
SYNC is a high signal, the converter will be operated at 
the hybrid-mode control. 
2). When the inductor current is below zero, in order to 
improve the efficiency at light load, the synchronous 
rectifier switch is cut off automatically to reduce the 
negative conduction loss. 
3). Simulation and test results verify that no matter the 
converter is operated at constant-frequency-mode control 
or hybrid-mode control, the output voltage of the 
converter is nearly steady in 3.3V with many different 
operating modes and loads. However, the load operation 
range with hybrid-mode control can be extended more 
than the constant-frequency-mode control. In addition, 
the proposed approach, PWM/PFM hybrid-mode control, 
is able to significantly improve the light-load efficiency 
of a DC-DC buck converter. 
 
Acknowledgement 
 
The authors will give their thanks to the CIC support for 
chip implementation and financial support of National 
Science Council (Taiwan) under the grant NSC 97-2221- 
E-224-067. 
 
REFERENCES 
iL , 
Vgs,Mp  
Vgs,Mn  
Vgs,Mp  
Vgs,Mn  
iL , 
Vx 
 
Vx 
 
