Design of an Autonomous Transportation Robot in 
Intersections 
 
Abstract—This project presents the design of an 
autonomous transportation robot in intersections, 
which can provide older and disabled people to 
go through the crosswalk safely with sensor 
information fusion and fuzzy controller design. 
In this study, the vision system makes the 
feedback of position offset, and declination angle 
through the fuzzy controller, the robot could 
modify the attitude error to cross the crosswalk 
automatically. If the information of obstacles in 
the forward path is supplied from the radar 
system, the function of collision avoidance will be 
executed. Besides, the navigation of the robot at 
a crosswalk interface point is also addressed 
which can help the robot to make a right turn or 
left turn to the next intersection. In cooperate 
with the intersection-agent system, the robot 
could pass through the next crosswalk safely in 
order to prevent the collision with other vehicles. 
The system has been demonstrated on the real 
road. 
Keywords-component; transportation robot; 
fuzzy control; vision system; crosswalk  
I.  INTRODUCTION  
In modern society, traffic accidents are most 
common in intersection. According to [1], it uses a 
laser scanner to monitoring traffic behavior at 
intersection. Reference [2] utilizes a two-
dimensional laser radar and a monocular CCD 
camera to estimate the target’s mode which is 
modeled as a discrete time point process. An 
efficient tracking algorithm of the Curb is called: 
Curb Tracking and Estimation (CuTE). Reference [4] 
adopts the Global Positioning System (GPS) and 
odometer data with Kalman filter technology to 
improve the overall accuracy of mobile robot 
localization, and also uses a laser range finder to 
detect the curb in the outdoor environment. In 
addition, an intersection agent that takes vehicular 
status information from vehicle agents and learns, 
detects and warns collisions at a road intersection is 
proposed [5]. A communication protocol that is 
designed specifically with intersection safety is also 
presented.  
In order to reduce the traffic accidents in 
intersections, it is important to remind drivers with 
the immediate road information by using the sensor 
fusion technology. Some researches deal with this 
problem based on the sensors equipped in the car 
[6]-[8]. The other way is to set up the intersection-
agent system with a laser radar at the crossroad to 
detect the moving targets like vehicles, pedestrians, 
or others. In our work, this information can be 
provided to the autonomous transportation robot a 
warning message to prevent accidents by using RF-
communication.  
The main purpose of this paper is to design an 
autonomous transportation robot to carry older and 
disabled people to cross the road safely. By using 
camera image, the position offset and declination 
angle of the crosswalk are obtained and feedback to 
the fuzzy controller, the robot can follow the middle 
line of the crosswalk automatically. When an 
obstacle is detected on the forward path by the laser 
range finder, the function of obstacle avoidance will 
be executed. Finally, if the vehicle is detected on the 
road with the intersection-agent system, the robot 
will judge whether it must go directly or stop until 
the vehicle leaves. 
II. OVERALL STRUCTER 
Figure 1 shows the system architecture of the 
autonomous transportation robot. The commercial 
electric wheelchair is adopted here. Some useful 
sensors like a camera, a laser range finder, two 
encoders and IMU are equipped in the robot for 
crosswalk detection, obstacle detection and robot 
localization. An embedded controller is installed to 
realize the fuzzy controller and multi-signal 
processing. A RF module is used for communication 
with the intersection-agent system. 
 
Figure 4. Through crosswalk system architecture 
diagram 
C. Collision avoidance 
When an obstacle is detected in the forward path 
by using the laser range finder, the first lane-change 
mode will be performed. This mode will keep the 
robot far away from the obstacle. After this, the 
second lane-change mode will be executed in order 
to back to the original trace. Since the lane-change 
mode is an open-loop function, it is important to find 
the crosswalk again and conduct the robot back to 
the origin path. 
D. Intersection agent 
In this part, the intersection-agent system shown 
in Fig. 5 uses a laser range finder to get the 
information of moving targets in the intersection.  
 
Figure 5. The intersection-agent system 
When moving targets are detected, the system 
will track the position of the targets and calculate the 
speed and direction. After that, the system will 
decide the trajectory between the two moving targets 
and judge whether the collision will be happened. 
The system will estimate the reaching time of the 
two objects and take the data into the anti-collision 
algorithm [10] to check if the collision exists. Table 
1 shows the requirement parameters of braking. The 
braking distance is expressed as the following:  
( ) 2 / 2stop driver machineD T T V V= + × + A               (3
) 
where    ：Driver required for the reaction 
time 
driverT
machineT ：  Machinery required for the 
reaction time 
V： The speed of the car 
A ： The maximum braking acceleration 
of the car 
When the vehicle and the collision point is less 
than the distance of the barking distance required─
stopD , the intersection agent will send the warning 
signal to the transportation robot which will stop to 
avoid crush. However, if the vehicle slows down and 
stops before the crosswalk, the intersection agent 
will send a signal to the transportation robot to keep 
going through the crosswalk. 
TABLE I.  The time required for braking 
Input values 
Minimum / Maximum 
driver delay (s) 0.8 / 2 
Minimum / Maximum 
machine delay (s) 0.3 / 0.5 
1a  2a  3a  Braking level (g) 
0.31 0.5 0.7
E. Vision system 
In vision system, it will estimate the middle line 
both of the crosswalk and turn lane guidelines by 
using the methods of Sobel and least-square. Two 
useful signals including the lateral offset x and 
displacement of angle θ shown in Fig. 6 are obtained 
as the input of the fuzzy controller. 
   
(a) in pedestrian crossing    (b) in blind road 
Figure 6. Estimation of guidance  
 
Figure 10. The locus of avoid obstacle 
 
 
Figure 11. The data of collision avoidance 
C. Guideline followingt 
In Fig. 12, a set of two crosswalks are placed on 
the road and the yellow line is simulated as guideline 
following of the robot. Figure 13 shows the true path 
of the robot when turning left on the crosswalk. In 
Fig. 14, the red block shows the information of this 
action. 
 
Figure 12. Experiment on campus 
 
Figure 13. The path of turn left 
 
Figure 14. The data of turn left 
D. Intersection agent 
In this subsection, the intersection-agent system 
is set up on the road as shown in Fig. 15. The 
vehicle and robot are both utilized in this experiment. 
 
Figure 15. Intersection-agent system 
experiment scene 
1) Vehicle Go-Robot Stop 
In this case, the vehicle is going through the 
intersection crosswalk and does not slow down. In 
order to avoid the occurrence of collision between 
the transportation robot and vehicle, the intersection-
agent system will send a stop command to the 
transportation robot by RF. It makes the 
transportation robot stop and wait until the vehicle 
going through. The interface of the intersection 
agent is shown in Fig. 16. 
Technology Conference, vol. 5, pp. 2940-2945, 
May 2004. 
[8] Y. Sato, Y. Shimonaka, T. Maruoka, T. Wada, 
and H. Okada, “Vehicular Collision Avoidance 
Support System v2 (VCASSv2) by GPS+INS 
Hybrid Vehicular Positioning Method,” 
Australasian Telecommunication Networks and 
Applications Conference, pp. 29-34, Chistchurch, 
New Zealand, December 2-5 2007. 
[9] G. P. Roston, and E. P. Krotkov, “Dead 
Reckoning Navigation for Walking Robots,” 
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on 
Intelligent Robots and Systems, Raleigh, NC, 
July 7-10,1992. 
[10] Preventive and Active Safety Applications 
Integrated Project Contract number FP6-507075 
eSafety for road and air transportation, PR40430 
SPD 050131 v23_VW_Intersafe_Requirements, 
pp. 15, 32-33. 
[11] L. A. Zadeh, “Fuzzy Sets,” Information and 
Control, vol. 8, pp. 338-353 1965. 
[12] E. H. Mamdani, and S. Assitian, “An 
Experiment in Linguistic Synthesis with a Fuzzy 
Logic Controller,” International Journal of Man-
Machine Studies, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 1-13, 1975.  
 
計畫成果自評 
本計畫在執行第一年學術成就方面，已發表兩篇
國際研討會論文與一篇國內研討會論文，成果豐
碩。本計畫希望提出一套智慧型系統能協助老年
人或盲胞在過馬路時，安全的到達目的地，減少
交通意外的發生，對於社會帶來正面的影響。本
計畫目前已進入第二年，將繼續完成多功能系統
實現，未來將所發表之論文投稿至國際期刊，並
期待將所發展之系統與技術結合廠商的力量發展
成相關的產品。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 此次會議之論文集：Proceeding of ICCEA 2011。 
2. 會議論文光碟片一張 
3. 其他舉辦之國際會議 Call for Papers 
 
論文被接受發表之大會證明文件 
Dear Jau-Woei Perng, Shao-Wei Lai, Ho-Hsiang Fan, Yueh-Ting Lin and Cheng-Kang Chuang, 
Paper ID: K052 
Paper Title: Design of an Autonomous Transportation Robot in Intersections 
Congratulations! The review processes for 2011 3rd International Conference on Computer Engineering 
and Applications (ICCEA 2011) has been completed. The conference submissions were reviewed by 
international experts, and about 150 papers have been selected for presentation and publication. Based on 
the recommendations of the reviewers and the Technical Program Committees, we are pleased to inform you 
that your paper identified above has been accepted for publication and oral presentation. You are cordially 
invited to present the paper orally at ICCEA 2011 to be held on 15 – 17, July 2011, Haikou, China. 
The ICCEA 2011 is co-sponsored by the Hainan University, International Association of Computer Science 
and Information Technology (IACSIT), and IEEE. 
(Important) So in order to register the conference and have your paper included in the 
proceeding successfully, you must finish following FIVE steps. 
1. Revise your paper according to the Review Comments in the attachment carefully. 
2. Format your paper according to the Template carefully.  
http://www.iccea.org/IEEE.doc (DOC Format) 
3. Download and complete the Registration Form. 
http://www.iccea.org/ICCEA.Registration.doc (English) 
http://www.iccea.org/ICCEA.CNRegistration.doc (中国大陆作者注册表) 
4. Finish the payment of Registration fee at the Bank. (The bank transfer information can be found in the 
Registration form)  
http://www.iccea.org/ICCEA.Registration.doc (English) 
http://www.iccea.org/ICCEA.CNRegistration.doc (中国大陆作者注册表) 
5. Send your final papers (both .doc and .pdf format), filled registration form (.doc format), and the scanned 
payment (in jpg format) to us at iccea@vip.163.com. (Before April 20, 2011) 
*If you pay by on-line Credit Card Payment, please fill your confirmation number in the registration form 
after paying. 
*If you pay by bank transfer, please scan the payment slip as the payment proof for checking. 
Design of an Autonomous Transportation Robot in 
Intersections 
Jau-Woei Perng, Shao-Wei Lai, Ho-Hsiang Fan, Yueh-Ting Lin, Cheng-Kang Chuang 
Department of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engineering 
National Sun Yat-Sen University  
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
jwperng@faculty.nsysu.edu.tw
Abstract—This project presents the design of an autonomous 
transportation robot in intersections, which can provide older 
and disabled people to go through the crosswalk safely with 
sensor information fusion and fuzzy controller design. In this 
study, the vision system makes the feedback of position offset, 
and declination angle through the fuzzy controller, the robot 
could modify the attitude error to cross the crosswalk 
automatically. If the information of obstacles in the forward path 
is supplied from the radar system, the function of collision 
avoidance will be executed. Besides, the navigation of the robot at 
a crosswalk interface point is also addressed which can help the 
robot to make a right turn or left turn to the next intersection. In 
cooperate with the intersection-agent system, the robot could pass 
through the next crosswalk safely in order to prevent the collision 
with other vehicles. The system has been demonstrated on the 
real road. 
Keywords-component; transportation robot; fuzzy control; 
vision system; crosswalk  
I.  INTRODUCTION  
In modern society, traffic accidents are most common in 
intersection. According to [1], it uses a laser scanner to 
monitoring traffic behavior at intersection. Reference [2] 
utilizes a two-dimensional laser radar and a monocular CCD 
camera to estimate the target’s mode which is modeled as a 
discrete time point process. An efficient tracking algorithm of 
the Curb is called: Curb Tracking and Estimation (CuTE). 
Reference [4] adopts the Global Positioning System (GPS) and 
odometer data with Kalman filter technology to improve the 
overall accuracy of mobile robot localization, and also uses a 
laser range finder to detect the curb in the outdoor environment. 
In addition, an intersection agent that takes vehicular status 
information from vehicle agents and learns, detects and warns 
collisions at a road intersection is proposed [5]. A 
communication protocol that is designed specifically with 
intersection safety is also presented.  
In order to reduce the traffic accidents in intersections, it is 
important to remind drivers with the immediate road 
information by using the sensor fusion technology. Some 
researches deal with this problem based on the sensors 
equipped in the car [6]-[8]. The other way is to set up the 
intersection-agent system with a laser radar at the crossroad to 
detect the moving targets like vehicles, pedestrians, or others. 
In our work, this information can be provided to the 
autonomous transportation robot a warning message to prevent 
accidents by using RF-communication.  
The main purpose of this paper is to design an autonomous 
transportation robot to carry older and disabled people to cross 
the road safely. By using camera image, the position offset and 
declination angle of the crosswalk are obtained and feedback to 
the fuzzy controller, the robot can follow the middle line of the 
crosswalk automatically. When an obstacle is detected on the 
forward path by the laser range finder, the function of obstacle 
avoidance will be executed. Finally, if the vehicle is detected 
on the road with the intersection-agent system, the robot will 
judge whether it must go directly or stop until the vehicle 
leaves. 
II. OVERALL STRUCTER 
Figure 1 shows the system architecture of the autonomous 
transportation robot. The commercial electric wheelchair is 
adopted here. Some useful sensors like a camera, a laser range 
finder, two encoders and IMU are equipped in the robot for 
crosswalk detection, obstacle detection and robot localization. 
An embedded controller is installed to realize the fuzzy 
controller and multi-signal processing. A RF module is used 
for communication with the intersection-agent system. 
 
Figure 1. System architecture 
The overall system flow chart is shown in Fig. 2. First, the 
visual system is used to judge the existence of crosswalk. The 
embedded system uses the fuzzy logic algorithm to control the 
transportation robot by using the information from the visual 
system. The laser range finder is applied to detect obstacles in 
two moving targets and judge whether the collision will be 
happened. The system will estimate the reaching time of the 
two objects and take the data into the anti-collision algorithm 
[10] to check if the collision exists. Table 1 shows the 
requirement parameters of braking. The braking distance is 
expressed as the following:  
( ) 2 / 2stop driver machineD T T V V= + × + A               (3) 
where    ：Driver required for the reaction time 
driverT
machineT ： Machinery required for the reaction time 
V： The speed of the car 
A ： The maximum braking acceleration of the car 
When the vehicle and the collision point is less than the 
distance of the barking distance required ─
stopD , the 
intersection agent will send the warning signal to the 
transportation robot which will stop to avoid crush. However, if 
the vehicle slows down and stops before the crosswalk, the 
intersection agent will send a signal to the transportation robot 
to keep going through the crosswalk.
 
TABLE I.  The time required for braking 
Input values 
Minimum / Maximum driver delay (s) 0.8 / 2 
Minimum / Maximum machine delay (s) 0.3 / 0.5 
1a  2a  3a  Braking level (g) 
0.31 0.5 0.7 
E. Vision system 
In vision system, it will estimate the middle line both of the 
crosswalk and turn lane guidelines by using the methods of 
Sobel and least-square. Two useful signals including the lateral 
offset x and displacement of angle θ shown in Fig. 6 are 
obtained as the input of the fuzzy controller. 
   
(a) in pedestrian crossing                             (b) in blind road 
Figure 6. Estimation of guidance  
F. Fuzzy controller [11-12] 
A fuzzy controller consists of a rule base containing the 
experts’ procedural knowledge and a variable base containing 
the different linguistic values that they consider. Mamdani’s 
inference method (min–min–max) is used to solve the fuzzy 
implication. The equation is expressed as follow:  
( ) ( ) ( )
( ) ( )
, min ,
                           
M A B A B
A B
R x y x y
x y
μ μ
μ μ
→= = ⎡⎣
= ∧
μ ⎤⎦                 (4) 
where A and B are x and y belong to the fuzzy set. 
The fuzzy control output is obtained through 
defuzzification that the method is center average 
defuzzification (CAD). The equation is described as follow: 
( )
( )
1
1
m
l l
i
m
l
i
p h B
y
h B
∗ =
=
′
=
′
∑
∑
                                  (5) 
where ( )lh B′  represents the membership function resulting from 
the inference of the rules, and is the membership function for 
the different values of the output variable of the rules. This 
method is very commonly used in control applications. 
In Fig. 7, the triangular and trapezoid membership 
functions are chosen as the input and output of the fuzzy 
controller. The input signals are the lateral offset x and 
displacement of angle θ. The output signal is the speed of the 
robot. Fuzzy if-then rules are based on human-like and 
experience of experts to establish, and the twenty-five fuzzy 
rules are determined as shown in Fig. 8.  
 
(a)                                               (b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 7. Membership functions of fuzzy controller 
 
Figure 8. Rule base of fuzzy controller 
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
A. Through crosswalk 
The experiment took place on the University’s campus. The 
transportation robot went through the real crosswalk which is 
11 meters long. The black and white stripes are all 40 cm 
spacing and the width is 200 cm. The initial condition of the 
robot’s position is decided arbitrarily and the speed of the robot 
is constant. As shown in Fig. 9, the robot can follow the middle 
line of the crosswalk smoothly by using the fuzzy controller 
and vision system.  
1) Vehicle Go-Robot Stop 
In this case, the vehicle is going through the intersection 
crosswalk and does not slow down. In order to avoid the 
occurrence of collision between the transportation robot and 
vehicle, the intersection-agent system will send a stop 
command to the transportation robot by RF. It makes the 
transportation robot stop and wait until the vehicle going 
through. The interface of the intersection agent is shown in Fig. 
16. 
 
Figure 16. Intersection agent warning notice 
2) Vehicle Stop-Robot Go 
In this case, the vehicle slows down to let transportation 
robot go through the crosswalk first. The intersection-agent 
system will use the RF module to inform the transportation 
robot a safe command. When the transportation robot received 
the command, the robot will start to go through crosswalk, as 
shown in Fig. 17 and Fig. 18. 
  Figure 17. ansportation robot pass (1)The data of vehicle waiting tr
 
Figure 18. The data of vehicle waiting transportation robot pass (2) 
V. CONCLUSION  
In this project, an autonomous transportation robot is 
designed and realized to go through the crosswalk 
automatically. Based on the vision system and fuzzy controller, 
the robot can follow the reference path smoothly. In addition 
the laser range finder is also used for obstacle collision 
avoidance. The intersection-agent system is also developed to 
enhance the safety of the robot on the road. The experimental 
results demonstrate the efficiently of the proposed system. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
This work is supported in part by the National Science Council, 
Taiwan, R. O. C. under Grant No. 99-2221-E-110-076. 
REFERENCE 
[1] H. Zhao, X. W. Shao, K. Katabira, and R. Shibasaki, “Joint Tracking and 
Classification of Moving Objects at Intersection Using a Single-Row 
Laser Range Scanner,” IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems 
Conference, Toronto, Canada, pp. 287-294, September 17-20, 2006. 
K. R. S. Kodagoda, W. S. Wijesoma, and A. P. Balasuriya, “Cute：[2] Curb 
Tracking and Estimation,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems 
Technology, vol. 14, no. 5, pp. 951-957, September 2006. 
C. Yu, and D. Zhang, “Road Curbs Detection Based on L[3] aser Radar,”8th 
International Conference on Signal Processing, vol. 4, 2006. 
[4] S. H. Kim, C. W. Roh, S. C. Kang, and M. Y. Park, “Outdoor Navigation 
of a Mobile Robot Using Differential GPS and Curb Detection,” IEEE 
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pp. 3415-3419, 
Roma, Italy, April 10-14, 2007. 
F. D. Salim, L. Cai, M. Indrawan[5] , and S. W. Loke, “Road Intersections as 
Pervasive Computing Environments: Towards a Multiagent Real-Time 
Collision Warning System,” Sixth Annual IEEE International Conference 
on Computing and Communications, pp. 621-626, 17-21 March 2008. 
Y. Shimonaka, S. Tasaka, Y. Hatta, T. Wada, and H. Okada, “Accua[6] cy 
Improvement of Vehicular Collision Avoidance Support System (VCASS) 
for the next generation ITS,” IEEE Wireless Communication and 
Networking Conference, pp. 2517-2522, March 2007. 
[7] J. Ueki, J. Mori, Y. Nakamura, Y. Horii, and H Okada, “Development of 
vehicular-collision avoidance support system by inter-vehicle 
communications – VCASS,” IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference, vol. 
5, pp. 2940-2945, May 2004. 
[8] Y. Sato, Y. Shimonaka, T. Maruoka, T. Wada, and H. Okada, “Vehicular 
Collision Avoidance Support System v2 (VCASSv2) by GPS+INS 
Hybrid Vehicular Positioning Method,” Australasian Telecommunication 
Networks and Applications Conference, pp. 29-34, Chistchurch, New 
Zealand, December 2-5 2007. 
[9] G. P. Roston, and E. P. Krotkov, “Dead Reckoning Navigation for 
Walking Robots,” IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent 
Robots and Systems, Raleigh, NC, July 7-10,1992. 
Preventive and Active Safety Applications Integr[10] ated Project Contract 
number FP6-507075 eSafety for road and air transportation, PR40430 
SPD 050131 v23_VW_Intersafe_Requirements, pp. 15, 32-33. 
[11] L. A. Zadeh, “Fuzzy Sets,” Information and Control, vol. 8, pp. 338-353 
1965. 
E. H. Ma[12] mdani, and S. Assitian, “An Experiment in Linguistic Synthesis 
with a Fuzzy Logic Controller,” International Journal of Man-Machine 
Studies, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 1-13, 1975.  
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：彭昭暐 計畫編號：99-2221-E-110-076- 
計畫名稱：導護與運輸機器人於智慧型路口安全防護之研究--子計畫五：智慧型路口之自主式運輸機
器人設計與實現 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
