 1
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
建立腕關節外固定器癒合路徑之電腦影像模擬分析方法 
Development of computer-imaged based animation and simulation 
method in wrist external fixator reduction path analysis 
 
中文摘要 
 
台灣發生橈骨骨折的機會很高，遠端骨折在骨頭骨折癒合上，外固定器是接受度很高
的治療方法之一。以電腦影像為基礎的骨骼肌肉分析系統已逐漸的應用在骨科手術中，本
研究計畫便是將此概念用於腕關節骨外固定器的研究上，在本腕關節外固定器模型建立
時，是假設骨折的骨頭兩端藉著外固定器連結成一多肢段的運動系統，以數值運算方式求
出骨頭癒合時所需的調整的角度及位移，並且以虛擬實境的方法呈現癒合路徑及結果，在
手術前可以先模擬術後的癒合情形，可以減低手術失敗的可能性。將有助於縮短骨折癒合
時間及提高準確性。 
本研究所建立的腕關節外固定器模型並嘗試應用在市售的外固定器上，設定一些骨折
時所造成骨頭兩端的位移及旋轉角度，經模擬計算後，可分析得出外固定器所需調整的角
度及位移，並且皆可以使得骨折後所產生的間距癒合。此模型的好處是若欲應用在不同外
固定器上，只需改變外固定器參數即可以應用。希望此項模型的建立可以提供臨床外固定
器調整應用時的參考。 
關鍵字：電腦虛擬模擬、數值分析、腕關節、外固定器 
 
Abstract 
External fixator is one of the most common treatments in reduction of bone fracture. Visual 
Interactive Musculoskeletal System (VIMS) recently has been broadly applied in orthopaedic 
surgery. This study project is applied this concept in wrist external fixator analysis. We assumed 
the external fixator and a fractured bone can be modeled as a multi-link kinematic linkage 
system. Such a model can quantify the translations and rotations in the connecting joints to 
reduce a given fracture. The results have been demonstrated in virtual reality environment. 
These adjustments are possible in clinical application. 
    We have also applied the developed wrist fixator model in commercialized fixator analysis. 
Given the translation and rotation between two ends of fractured bone, after analysis, the offset 
of the fractured bone could be eliminated. Another advantage of this model is only change the 
parameters of the external fixator could be applied for any other kind of external fixator. Hope 
this kind of analysis model could help surgeons when adjust the external fixator. 
 
Keywords: Virtual reality, animation & simulation, wrist joint, external fixator 
 3
developed to quantify 2-D malalignment [5-7] or even 3-D translational and rotational deformity 
[8, 9] of bone segments, they could not address the problem of how to apply and adjust an 
external fixator to facilitate bone realignment. Until recently, the concept of using computer 
medical image to animate the biomechanical analysis results named Virtual Interactive 
Musculoskeletal System (VIMS), which incorporated detailed kinematic analysis as well as 3-D 
graphic-based animation to tackle this adjustability problem [10]. Graphic-based models of two 
leading unilateral external fixators (Fig. 1) have been developed to quantify the rotations and 
translations of each joint of the fixators to correct complex residual fracture deformities in long 
bones and visualize the effects of different correction paths [11]. 
    A number of studies have focused on kinematic modeling of unilateral [11, 12] or ring-type 
external fixators [13] to calculate the amount of adjustments required at each fixator joint or 
actuator to correct for a fracture deformity. However, these studies focused on the long bone not 
applied to other segments. 
 
The distal radius fracture 
The distal radius fracture occurs in the heterogeneous patient population with different 
situations. The treatment options for the displaced distal radius fracture are closed reduction 
with plaster cast immobilization [14], pins and plaster [15], open reduction and internal fixation 
[16], closed reduction [17] and external fixation [18]. However, the treatment options are still 
controversial. External fixation is a minimally invasive method to retain reduction with adequate 
stability [19] and maintains the longitudinal traction recommended by Charnley [20]. Intact soft 
tissue can reduce the fragments by longitudinal traction. External fixation is reliable in securing 
the radial length even in grossly unstable distal radius fractures [21]. 
 
 
Methodology 
Development of three-dimensional graphic model 
    The Computed Tomography (CT) image data will get from department of radiology, 
Chung-Ho Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical University. The image data will be including 
from finger to the elbow joint. The image processing software Analyze® (Mayo clinic, Rochester, 
MN, USA) will be used to extract contours on each consecutive slice and performed the 
triangulation between the slices subsequently, while 3D reconstruction and post-processing will 
be done by this software. The fixator model will be created using the software Solidworks 
(SolidWorks Corporation, Concord, U.S.A.). All axes of rotation and translation of each joint of 
the external fixators, and the dimensions of external fixator and bone dimensions in the graphic 
model is the same as the real model. 
Model development 
Using the commercialized external fixator DFS Dimension Distal Radial Fixator (EBI 
Medical, Parsippany, NJ) as reference geometry for the preliminary study.  The fixator was 
 5
solve the seven unknown pair variables including (α1, β1, γ1) and (α2, β2, γ2) are three rotational 
angles of two ball and socket joints, and t0 represents the prismatic pair variable in 2T3. It 
provides non-unique solutions to the same fracture deformity. To reduce the solution domain, two 
approaches were adopted. One approach will be to apply an optimization algorithm to search for 
the solution of the loop equations using different initial estimates of the pair variable values. 
Another approach will be introduced one more constraint to reduce redundant pair variables in 
the optimization algorithms that will be applied in this study. It could reduce the solution domain 
but also increase the convergence in the search scheme when processing optimization method. 
The constraint condition will be used in the Orthfix fixator is: 
0),,,( 2221 =γβαγg  (the two ball joints are related)                   (3) 
uil r θθ << (based on flxator design) 
where g is an intrinsic function. The rotation angles (ri) are also constrained to the lower and 
upper bounds of the ball-and-socket joints. 
Graphic animation of fixator adjustment strategy  
In this study, each segment displacement (translation or rotation) is sequence dependent, 
all possible paths leading to the final fracture reduction should be examined. The best method is 
visualization through graphic model and simulation tool. The bone-fixator system will be 
displayed by using animation software VislabTM (EAI, Ames, IA, USA), to visualize the analysis 
results of adjustments in each joint rotation and translation to reduce the bone segment reduction. 
All axes of rotation and translation of each joint of the external fixators, and the dimensions of 
external fixator and bone dimensions in the graphic model is the same as the real model in the 
mathematical analysis. All the validating experiments will be animated and display by the 
animation software. 
 
 
Results & Discussion 
This analysis has been used to investigate all aspects of fracture and deformity treatment under 
external fixation.  In it’s most basic application the model correctly defines the final fixator 
configuration in order to close a fracture as shown in Table 1 with minimum displacement of the 
fracture site.   
The virtual model has extended functionality, however, that extends beyond simply defining 
the reduced configuration.  First, the simulation allows inquiry as to the maximum translation 
and rotation of a deformity that may be corrected given the locations of the proximal and distal 
fixator pins.  Secondly, in the case in which there are more degrees of freedom in the fixator 
design than the six spatial degrees of freedom that make up the fracture, the system is considered 
over-determined and will yield multiple reduction solutions.   There are path dependencies that 
are associated with not only these equivalent solution configurations, but also with the order in 
which the joints are adjusted. Both of these aspects may be visualized in this software as well to 
                                                 
 
 7
Self Evaluation of the Project 
The wrist external fixator model has been developed and applied it in the commercialized 
external fixator. Not only in the numerical analysis, the healing process also could be 
visualization. This model also could be modified for other kind of external fixator. 
 
 
References 
1. Kenwright, J. and J.B. Richardson, The biology of fracture repair and the role of 
dynamization. Orthofix External Fixation in Trauma and Orthopaedics, ed. G. Bastiani, 
A.G. Apley, and A. Goldberg. 2000, London: Springer. 8-17. 
2. Chao, E.Y., et al., Biomechanics of malalignment. Orthop Clin North Am, 1994. 25(3): p. 
379-86. 
3. Cooke, T.D., et al., Surgical implications of varus deformity of the knee with obliquity of 
joint surfaces. J Bone Joint Surg Br, 1989. 71(4): p. 560-5. 
4. Paley, D., et al., Treatment of malunions and mal-nonunions of the femur and tibia by 
detailed preoperative planning and the Ilizarov techniques. Orthop Clin North Am, 1990. 
21(4): p. 667-91. 
5. Heijens, E., B. Gladbach, and J. Pfeil, Definition, quantification, and correction of 
translation deformities using long leg, frontal plane radiography. Journal of pediatric 
orthopaedics, 1990. B 8: p. 285-291. 
6. Hsu, R.W., et al., Normal axial alignment of the lower extremity and load-bearing 
distribution at the knee. Clin Orthop Relat Res, 1990(255): p. 215-27. 
7. Paley, D. and K. Tetsworth, Mechanical axis deviation of the lower limbs. Preoperative 
planning of uniapical angular deformities of the tibia or femur. Clin Orthop Relat Res, 
1992(280): p. 48-64. 
8. Chao, E.Y. and B.F. Morrey, Three-dimensional rotation of the elbow. J Biomech, 1978. 
11(1-2): p. 57-73. 
9. Matsushita, T., et al., A simple technique for correction of complicated tibial deformity 
including rotational deformity. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg, 1998. 117(4-5): p. 259-61. 
10. Chao, E.Y., Graphic-based musculoskeletal model for biomechanical analyses and 
animation. Med Eng Phys, 2003. 25(3): p. 201-12. 
11. Kim, Y.H., N. Inoue, and E.Y. Chao, Kinematic simulation of fracture reduction and bone 
deformity correction under unilateral external fixation. J Biomech, 2002. 35(8): p. 
1047-58. 
12. Liu, R.W., et al., Computational simulation of axial dynamization on long bone fractures. 
Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon), 2005. 20(1): p. 83-90. 
13. Di Gregorio, R. and V. Parenti-Castelli, Kinematics of a six-dof fixation device for 
long-bone fracture reduction. Journal of Robotic Systems, 2001. 18: p. 715-722. 
14. Bohler, L., The treatment of fractures. 1928, New York: Grunner & Stratton. 
