2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
古蹟寺廟行動學習系統之產品造形與擴增實境使用者介面模
式設計研究(II) 
A Study on the Design of Product Form and Augmented 
Reality User Interfaces for Mobile Learning Systems in 
Heritage Temples (II) 
計 畫 編 號：NSC98-2221-E-036-022 
執 行 期 限：98 年 08 月 01 日至 99 年 07 月 31 日 
主 持 人：陳立杰  大同大學媒體設計學系 
共同主持人：朱柏穎、鄭穎懋   大同大學媒體設計學系、資訊工程學系 
計畫參與人員：王國雄、周承諺、王治鈞、謝少涵、詹安婷、吳培文 
大同大學工業設計研究所
一、中英文摘要 
為了提升古蹟寺廟參訪者行動學習的績
效與愉悅感，本研究之目的為運用擴增實境的
技術開發可藉由手持裝置即時看到數位內容
與寺廟場景整合後的數位遊戲，並研究其使用
者介面互動模式。研究人員首先透過實地調查
及訪談了解參訪者行為模式，並提出具有不同
互動模式之數位遊戲的原型。這些數位遊戲的
目的為幫助參訪者了解寺廟建築特色與寺廟
雕塑中之故事。此外，也發展行動學習手持裝
置產品概念模型進行實驗測試。研究結果顯
示，擴增實境數位遊戲的確能夠加強參訪者對
古蹟寺廟相關文化學習的注意力與內容的了
解。互動模式研究結果顯示，若同時使用兩個
標記進行導覽或遊戲，將其中一個標記固定在
景點，另一個標記讓使用者以嘗試錯誤的方式
由一組標記中挑選正確答案並透過手持方式
驅動數位內容之模式，最能增強學習印象。產
品造形功能上，以滑動方式來擴展螢幕大小的
手持裝置可提升擴增實境式行動學習的績效。 
關鍵詞：行動學習、擴增實境、使用者介面設
計、數位遊戲設計 
Abstract 
In order to increase the performance and 
enjoyment of mobile learning in a heritage 
temple, the objective of this research was to 
develop mobile games based on the technology 
of Augmented Reality (AR) and study the 
interaction style of user interfaces. After 
observing the tourists’ behaviors and 
interviewing some tourists and temple 
administrators, the requirements for designing 
the mobile game were obtained. Prototype 
games with different interaction styles were 
developed for comparative studies. The purpose 
of these games was to learn the features of 
temple architectures and the stories of the sages 
sculptured on the wall of the temple. In addition, 
the prototype of mobile learning devices was 
designed. Based on the results of experiments, 
the attention of visitors to the scenes and 
4 
increase the performance and enjoyment of 
mobile learning through AR technologies, the 
issues of interaction styles deserved in-depth 
studies. 
 
三、研究方法與結果 
FIELD STUDY AND OBSERVATION 
The authors first conducted a field study 
through observing the tourists’ behaviors in a 
heritage temple, Lungshan Temple, located in 
Taipei. In addition, the authors interviewed 
some tourists and temple administrators to elicit 
the requirements and ideas of designing the 
mobile game. This temple was founded in 1738 
and dedicated to the Buddhist Goddess of Mercy. 
It was famous for its magnificent architectural 
ornaments, such as Taiwan's only copper-cast 
dragon column. The temple's doors, beams and 
poles were beautifully decorated with auspicious 
animals (such as dragon, phoenix, and unicorn) 
and many sculptures of folktales. These 
sculptures contained a great deal of sages and 
stories that persuaded people to do more charity 
things. 
 
SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION 
Based on the results of observation and 
interview, the user interface prototypes were 
built on an Ultra Mobile PC (UMPC) with a 5.6 
inch touch-screen and physical keyboards. 
Tourists could use the attached camera to 
capture the image of tags located near the spots 
with heritage features (Figure 1).  
The media introducing the heritage features 
would show up to provide augmented 
information superimposed on the corresponding 
background. 
  
Figure 1: The Device for Experiment 
 
In the media, animated characters and their 
representative accessories in the folktales were 
re-built to deliver the story of the ancient. These 
contents help tourists understand the history and 
traditional culture of Taiwan. The user interface 
of Augmented Reality system was constructed 
based on ARToolKit and user interface widgets. 
The models of characters and accessories were 
first created using Maya and Metasequoia, and 
then converted to the format for real-time 
rendering (Figure 2). 
 
Figure 2: System Architecture. 
 
Furthermore, two prototype games with 
different interaction styles were developed for 
comparative studies. The purpose of these 
games was to learn the features of temple 
architectures and the stories of the sages 
sculptured on the wall of the temple. In the first 
prototype (Figure 3), multiple tags were placed 
on transparent panels mounted close to the 
6 
In addition to AR games, two prototypes of 
mobile learning devices were constructed for 
experiments. The result of experiments showed 
that the device with an extensible touch screen 
and slide mechanism can increase the 
performance of mobile learning (Figure 5). This 
device had an extensible touch screen, a stylus, 
and a camera to facilitate mobile learning. The 
detailed design is shown in Figure 6. 
 
 
 
Figure 5: A Mobile Device with an Extensible 
Touch Screen 
 
Figure 6: Detailed Design of the Mobile Device 
 
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION 
FOR FUTURE RESEARCH 
In this study, two prototype games with 
different interaction styles were constructed. 
Overall, the participants appreciated the AR 
approach. The attention to the scenes and 
historical stories of the heritage temple did 
improved dramatically. For cases of multiple 
markers, the best interaction style is fixing one 
marker at the site and allowing the user to select 
a correct marker among several markers to drive 
the digital content. In addition, a device with 
extensible screen and slide mechanism can 
increase the performance of mobile learning. 
Although learning through AR games is 
interesting, there are some practical or research 
issues deserves further studies. Since most 
mobile devices use the touch screen as the input 
and output user interfaces, the mapping of touch 
gestures and dynamics of content display should 
be addressed. The mapping should be nature and 
intuitive in order to help users concentrate on 
the digital contents.  
 
 8
 
Study of How Users Customize Their Mobile 
Phones)於 7 月 20 日以口頭簡報型式發表。 
 
二、與會心得：參加研討會最大的收穫除了觀摩國
際研究單位的研究成果之外，也能與國際學者分享
教學研究經驗。從交談中可以得知，國外學者的學
術成就不僅在於研究論文的發表，也積極致力於將
研究知識轉化為教案與教材，以培養出更優秀的畢
業生。他們的敬業精神與教學態度值得我們學習。 
 
三、考察參觀活動：除了研討會相關活動之外，本
人也參觀了 Miami International University of 
Art & Design 的教學設備。經由 Juan Carlos 
Rodriguez 的帶領及介紹，了解該校歷史與特色，
並攜回大學部與研究所課程相關資料。 
 
四、建議：AHFE 國際研討會主題涵蓋相當廣泛，包
括 Medico-ergonomics and Patient Safety, 
Aviation, Designing New Buildings and 
Facilities for End Users, Ergonomics Hazards 
and Prevention, User Interface Design, Online 
Human Error Management, Methods and 
Instruments for Ergonomic Design of 
Production Systems, Universal Access to Novel 
Interaction Environments, Impact of Human 
Factors on Technical Systems Failure, 
Cognitive and Physical Work Analysis and 
Design 等。這次研討會已有許多國內人因工程領域
學者參加，建議國科會可多提供訊息並鼓勵其他學
者多參與此類研討會，以增加國際交流機會。 
 A Study on the Interaction 
Styles of an Augmented 
Reality Game for Mobile 
Learning in a Heritage 
Temple 
Kuo-Hsiung Wang, Li-Chieh Chen, Po-Ying Chu, Yun-Maw Cheng 
 
Department of Media Design 
Tatung University 
Taipei, Taiwan, ROC 
 
ABSTRACT 
In order to increase the performance and enjoyment of mobile learning in a heritage 
temple, the objective of this research was to develop a mobile game based on the 
technology of Augmented Reality (AR). The authors first conducted a field study 
through observing the tourists’ behaviors in a famous heritage temple. In addition, 
after interviewing some tourists and temple administrators, the requirements for 
designing the mobile game were obtained. Two prototype games with different 
interaction styles were developed for comparative studies. The purpose of these 
games was to learn the stories of the sages sculptured on the wall of the temple. 
Based on the results of experiments, the participants appreciated the AR approach. 
The attention to the scenes and historical stories of the heritage temple did improved 
dramatically.  
 
Keywords: Mobile Learning, Augmented Reality, User Interface Design, Game 
Design 
FIELD STUDY AND OBSERVATION 
The authors first conducted a field study through observing the tourists’ behaviors 
in a heritage temple, Lungshan Temple, located in Taipei. In addition, the authors 
interviewed some tourists and temple administrators to elicit the requirements and 
ideas of designing the mobile game. This temple was founded in 1738 and dedicated 
to the Buddhist Goddess of Mercy. It was famous for its magnificent architectural 
ornaments, such as Taiwan's only copper-cast dragon column. The temple's doors, 
beams and poles were beautifully decorated with auspicious animals (such as 
dragon, phoenix, and unicorn) and many sculptures of folktales. These sculptures 
contained a great deal of sages and stories that persuaded people to do more charity 
things. 
SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION 
Based on the results of observation and interview, the user interface prototypes were 
built on an Ultra Mobile PC (UMPC) with a 5.6 inch touch-screen and physical 
keyboards. Tourists could use the attached camera to capture the image of tags 
located near the spots with heritage features. The media introducing the heritage 
features would show up to provide augmented information superimposed on the 
corresponding background. In the media, animated characters and their 
representative accessories in the folktales were re-built to deliver the story of the 
ancient. These contents help tourists understand the history and traditional culture of 
Taiwan. The user interface of Augmented Reality system was constructed based on 
ARToolKit and user interface widgets. The models of characters and accessories 
were first created using Maya and Metasequoia, and then converted to the format 
for real-time rendering (Figure 1). 
Furthermore, two prototype games with different interaction styles were 
developed for comparative studies (Figure 2). The purpose of these games was to 
learn the stories of the sages sculptured on the wall of the temple. In the first 
prototype, multiple tags were placed on transparent panels mounted close to the 
sculpture on the wall. Since these tags were used to display the virtual characters of 
the sages and corresponding accessories, they were positioned separately with some 
distance apart. When the tags were within the range of the camera attached to the 
UMPC, the user had to move the virtual character, through the direction buttons on 
the touch screen, to pick up a representative accessory belonging to the sage, or to 
get close to the other sage who was in the same story. When the choice was correct, 
the system delivered an animation presenting the story. In the second prototype, 
only one tag for the purpose of displaying the virtual character was placed near the 
sculpture. Other tags, with each one representing one accessory or another character, 
were provided for the user. When the user picked up a correct one and moved it into 
the range of the camera and close to the character, the appearance of the character 
changed and the animated story stared to play.  
 RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
During the period of experiment, twenty visitors participated in the game. They 
were asked to complete two sessions with different prototypes to experience 
different interaction styles. In order to avoid the learning effect, half of them started 
with the first prototype, and the others started with the second one. During the 
experiment, the participants were asked to search for tags within the temple and 
watch as many stories as possible within limited time. Their scores were counted 
based on the number of correct match between characters and representative 
accessories as well as the number of key events or plots they could remember after 
watching the stories. Different levels of gifts were provided as the rewards based on 
their scores. 
Through the analysis of post-session questionnaire, 75% of the participants 
preferred the second prototype. Although moving a virtual character was similar to 
the task within common video games, most participants preferred the experience of 
selecting and holding the tag physically with respect to different accessories or 
characters. In addition, moving and attaching accessory tags to change the 
appearance of virtual characters was more interesting than just changing the 
position of the characters. Furthermore, moving the main character to get close to 
the other character in the same story was an appropriate interaction style to enhance 
the comprehension about the story.  
 
 
Table 1 The Advantages and Disadvantages of Two Interaction Styles of AR Games 
Styles Advantages Disadvantages 
1 
All digital contents display at the 
same time. 
The background is covered by too many 
graphics. 
Since all tags are in the same angle, 
positioning the camera is easy. 
The process is lack of challenging from 
the view point of game play. 
2 
The process of selecting and holding 
tags physically is interesting. 
The user needs to adjust the angle of 
the holding tag carefully. 
The process allows collaborative 
playing, with one person holding the 
device while the other holding the 
tag. 
It is difficult to hold multiple tags on the 
move. 
  
Reality and Broadcasting, 3(5), 1–13. 
Liu, T.Y., Tan, T.H., and Chu, Y.L. (2007), “2D barcode and augmented reality 
supported English learning system.” Proceedings of the 6th IEEE/ACIS 
International Conference on Computer and Information Science, Melbourne, 
Australia, 5–10, Jul. 
Liu, W., Cheok, A.D., Lim, M.L., and Theng, Y.L., (2007), “Mixed reality 
classroom: learning from entertainment.” Proceedings of the 2nd international 
conference on Digital interactive media in entertainment and arts, Perth, 
Australia, 65 – 72. 
Schmalstieg, D. and Wagner, D. (2007), “Experiences with handheld augmented 
reality.” Proceedings of the 6th IEEE and ACM International Symposium on 
Mixed and Augmented Reality, ISMAR 2007, 13-16 Nov, 3–18. 
Tarumi, H., Yamada, K., Daikoku, T., Kusunoki, F., Inagaki, S., Takenaka, M., 
Hayashi, T., and Yano, M. (2008), “Design and evaluation of a virtual mobile 
time machine in education.” Proceedings of the International Conference on 
Advances in Computer Entertainment Technology, ACM, Japan, 334–337. 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳立杰 計畫編號：98-2221-E-036-022- 
計畫名稱：古蹟寺廟行動學習系統之產品造形與擴增實境使用者介面模式設計研究(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
