based Next Generation Wireless Network’ plans a 
period of three years of integrated research 
projects. The purpose of this research project is to 
study and design LTE and LTE-A key technologies.    
To establish a network simulation platform to support 
the simulation of all work items in sub-projects is 
the main purpose of this project.    The simulation 
can make the research of sub-projects from theory to 
a realistic simulation environment which can verify 
the methods of new technologies.   In this project, 
first we will build OPNET network simulation 
platform, and all researchers will get familiar with 
the operation of the simulation platform. The work 
items in all sub-projects will simulate in the 
platform.    All the simulation result of the sub-
projects  will  be  submitted.    In  the  second  
year,  the  main  project  will  continue  to improve 
the functions in the LTE models and help the sub-
projects to complete the simulations of work items in 
the second year.    In the third year, the main 
project will simulate all the work items in all sub-
projects and build a complete simulation project on 
OPNET LTE model. 
The projects are forward-looking and challenging.    
And there are many work items to do in the projects. 
Therefore, we divide them to five sub-projects.   
Each sub-project chairperson is professional in the 
related research domain, and can achieve target of 
the project.    We wish the research results of this 
project can not only help Taiwan to have the key of 
building next-generation mobile communications 
technology but also strengthen the power of 
telecommunications industry of Taiwan. 
英文關鍵詞： LTE, LTE-A, OPNET, Network Simulation 
 
一、 前言 
 
隨著網路的快速發展，各種寬頻資料服務已成為日趨重要的服務元素，愈來愈多元的網路內容需
要更多的頻寬來傳輸。由於生活型態的改變，大多數人日漸習慣無所不在的寬頻存取，而不只限於家
中或辦公室使用，行動寬頻正逐漸實現。為了能快速發展行動寬頻技術，第三代合作夥伴計畫(3rd 
Generation Partnership Project，3GPP) 聯盟制定了長期演進 (Long Term Evolution，LTE) 技術以提升網
路服務所需的頻寬。與 IEEE 所提倡的全球互通微波存取 (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave 
Access，WiMAX) 技術相比，LTE 是一種具競爭力之無線通訊技術，以傳輸速率來為例，LTE 可以達
到 375Mbps (上行最高 75Mbps，下行最高 300Mbps) 的傳輸速率，相較於 IEEE 802.16e 或 802.16a 的
30Mbps 與 75Mbps 高出許多。使用者可以利用 LTE 數據機或 USB 收發器來取代原本固接的 DSL 與光
纖數據機，並可利用 LTE 手機來收發影片或音樂，如互動電視、行動影音部落格及高階電玩遊戲等專
業服務。 
 
圖 1-1 3G 行動通訊標準演進  
 
本計畫「以 LTE 與 LTE-A 為基礎之下世代網路建置技術之研究」規劃為期三年之整合型研究計
畫。本研究計畫之目的是研究與設計 LTE/LTE-A 下世代行動通訊之關鍵技術。此計畫書說明第一年計
畫內容之規劃。 
訊息交握在 RAN WG2 裡面討論，至於相關的效能分析則會在 RAN WG4 中討論。每個工作群組基本
上為獨立運作，但也會有與其他工作群組協同發展的部分。 
在 LTE/LTE-A 的制定議程中，每年舉行八次會議，而 3GPP 聯盟的成員均會派出技術人員參與，
針對每一次會議提出規格文件，並在會議當中討論，以制定 3GPP 通訊規格。開發時程如圖 1-4 所示。 
 
圖 1-4 LTE/LTE-A 開發制定時程圖 
圖 1-4 共有三個 LTE Release (Rel) 版本，其一為 Rel-8 主要制定以正交分頻多工存取 (Orthogonal 
Frequency Division Multiple Access，OFDMA) 為基礎的 3GPP LTE 系統與定義 EPC (Evolved Packet 
Core)，並且已經於 2010 年制定完成。其二為 Rel-9 主要制定加強 Rel-8 的功能，包括加強 EPC、支援
家用微型基地台 Femtocell、支援更進階的廣播與群播服務 (Enhanced MBMS，E-MBMS)、緊急用戶端
裝置定位  (Emergency User-Equipment Positioning)、商用移動警示系統  (Commercial Mobile Alert 
System，CMAS)，以及 IP 多媒體子系統 (IP Multimedia Subsystem，IMS) 架構演進等，且已於 2010
年制定完成。最後則是 LTE Advanced Rel-10，為了支援更高的傳輸效能，因此需要增強多項技術。其
中包括較高階的多重輸入多重輸出 (Multi-input Multi-output，MIMO) 配置、協同式多點 (Coordinated 
Multi-Point，CoMP) 技術(也稱為協同式 MIMO)、頻寬聚集與 Relay 功能，以及可部署更多室內微型基
地台 (Picocell) 與家用微型基地台 (Home Evolved Node B，HeNB) 的特性，並可向下相容於 Rel-8/9 
LTE，目前正制訂當中，預期將在 2011 年完成。 
二、 文獻探討 
 
[1]   “Architecture aspects of HNB and HeNB, Rel-9,” 3GPP TR 23.830. 
[2]  “Home (e)NodeB; Network aspects, Rel-8,” 3GPP TR R3.020. 
[3]  “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access 
Network (E-UTRAN); Overall description; Stage 2,” 3GPP TS 36.300. 
[4]  K.I. Pedersen, T.E. Kolding, F. Frederiksen, I.Z. Kovacs, D. Laselva, and P.E. Mogensen, "An overview 
of downlink radio resource management for UTRAN long-term evolution," IEEE Communications 
Magazine, vol. 47, pp. 86-93, Jul. 2009. 
 
 TX 
 CRC: Using CRC polynomial gCRC24A(D) for each transport block and gCRC24B(D) 
when performing segmentation. Following the procedures defined in spec [15]. 
 Channel coding: Convolutional turbo code with interleaving and rate matching. Following 
the procedures defined in spec [15]. 
 Modulation: QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM, following spec [14] 
 Transmission mode: Currently supporting TM1 (SISO), TM2 (Spatial diversity), TM3 
(Open-loop spatial multiplexing)  
(Note: TM4, TM5, TM6 are not supported currently) 
 Resource element mapper: Following the procedure defined in spec [14]. 
 
 RX 
 MIMO receiving algorithms: Currently supporting following options: 
 Zero forcing 
 LMMSE 
 Sphere decoding 
 Turbo convolutional code decoder: Conventional BCJR algorithm with configurable 
iterative numbers. 
B. BCH 
 
 TX 
 CRC: Using CRC polynomial gCRC16(D) with Antenna Selection Mask as defined in 
[15]. 
 Channel coding: Tail-biting convolutional code with interleaving and rate matching. 
Following the procedures defined in [15]. 
 Modulation: QPSK, following the procedure defined in spec [14]. 
 Resource element mapper: Following the procedures defined in spec [14]. 
 
 RX 
 Tail-biting convolutional code decoder: Adopting the algorithm proposed in [16]. 
 
C. PDCCH 
 
 TX 
 CRC: Using CRC polynomial gCRC16(D) with Antenna Selection Mask and RNTI Mask 
as defined in spec [15] 
 Channel coding: Tail-biting convolutional code with rate matching as defined in spec [26] 
 Modulation: QPSK, following spec [14] 
 Scrambling: Follow the procedures defined in spec [14]. 
 Time offset acquisition: Conventional algorithm 
 Frequency offset acquisition: Conventional algorithm 
 SSS detection algorithm: 
 Conventional algorithm. 
 
G. Channel Model 
 Spatial model: Currently supporting two options 
 Jake’s model with configurable maximal Doppler spread 
 SCM model for calibration purpose [Chapter 2, 5] with configurable maximal Doppler 
spread 
 Power delay profiles: Currently supporting four delay profiles 
 EPA (ITU extended pedestrian A) 
 EVA (ITU extended vehicular A) 
 ETU (ITU extended typical urban) 
 Flat channel (delay spread = 0) 
 
第一年  Matlab 模擬器 LTE Model 系統基本建置 
第一年總計畫部份將會完成架設 Matlab 模擬器系統。並且開始支援子計畫，完成第一年研究項目
之模擬。  
A. 子計畫一工作項目：HeNB 時間同步、HeNB 的動態調適頻寬 
題目一、HeNB 時間同步 
以 WiMAX 的 Femto BS 的時間同步為例子，在 WiMAX Forum 定義的 WiMAX Femtocell System 
文件中定義到了 Femto BS 的需求為需要與其他的 WiMAX 裝置同步，同步的方法有 GPS、IEEE 1588
協定等方法。常見的同步方法有三種： 
 GPS：GPS 雖可用於 HeNB 的時間同步，但缺點是其不支援室內環境 
 IEEE 1588 協定  
 透過無線通道與 DeNB 進行 Ranging 調教時間 
 
根據目前的幾份 LTE 規格內容，IEEE 1588 為主要的時間同步方法。IEEE 1588 協定的全名為｢
網路測量和控制系統的精密時鐘同步協定標準｣  (Standard for a Precision Clock Synchronization 
Protocol for Networked Measurement and Control Systems)，IEEE 1588 協定的產生是為了解決乙太網路
時間同步能力的不足，儘管電腦與網路界發展出一套以軟體方式解決同步問題的網路時間協定 
(Network Time Protocol)，其準確度大約為幾千分之一秒，雖提高了各網路設備之間的時間同步能力，
但是仍然不能滿足工業控制或是電信網路的規格。例如 LTE 的規格中對基地台的同步要求為 50ppb，
然而 HeNB 大部分都是在室內環境下被使用，所以其準確度可以放寬到 100ppb。相關的技術細節請
參閱子計畫一之計畫報告書。 
 
B. 子計畫二工作項目：UE 識別碼保密之研究 
本子計畫提出 LTE/LTE-A 識別碼保密與行動管理機制之研究(LTE/LTE-A ID Privacy and Mobility 
四、 結果與討論 
本總計畫目前完成一篇未投稿論文與以 Matlab 模擬 LTE Model 中 PHY 的部分功能。這些研究成
果，能有效分散 MTC LTE UE 進行接入時的競爭碰撞，並有效提高 MTC LTE UE 的接入成功率，以及
能有效模擬 LTE PHY 層的 Channels，如 PHICH、SCH、PDCCH 等，未來將可針對尚未完成的 LTE Model
與 Channesls 進行整合研究，並整理如下： 
 Downlink Channels 
 Physical channels 
 PMCH  PBCH  PCFICH 
 MTCH 
 Uplink channels 
 Physical channels 
 PRACH  PUSCH  PUCCH 
以下整理各子計畫的成果： 
子計畫一：以 LTE/LTE-A 為基礎之室內網路建置技術研究(I) 
 
1. S.-T. Sheu, M.-S. Lee, Y.-H. Tsai and Po-Min Lin, “Long-term In-door Wireless Location Technology”, 
CHINACOM 2010, 25-27, Beijing, China, August 2010. (Invited paper) 
2. S.-T. Sheu, L.-W. Chen, “A Universal Power Saving Mechanism for Random Traffic Intensity in IEEE 
802.16e Wireless Metropolitan Area Networks”, Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC Spring), 2011 
IEEE 73rd, 2011. 
3. H.-W. Tseng; Y.-R. Chuang; S.-T. Sheu, “An Automatic Mesh Scheme for IEEE 802.11 Wireless Mesh 
Networks”, Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing Conference (IWCMC), 2011 7th 
International, 2011. 
4. S.-T. Sheu, C.-H. Huang, “Mixed P2P-CDN System for Multimedia Streaming in Mobile Environment”, 
Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing Conference (IWCMC), 2011 7th International, 2011. 
 
子計畫二：LTE/LTE-A 識別碼保密與行動管理機制之研究(I) 
子計畫二共產出 4 篇論文。在識別碼保密結合行動管理部分有針對 IMS 建立安全連線保護所需
相關識別碼的研究。在行動管理機制部分有針對 PMIPv6 網路型 行動管理提出加強型快速換手機
制，及處理 Femto 家用基地台失去後端鏈結機制。以下為子計畫二發表之論文： 
1. Yu-Chan Lin, Whai-En Chen*, Meng-Hsuan Lin, “Handling the Backhaul Link Failure for IEEE 
802.16m Femto ABSs”, 2011 International Conference on Parallel Processing Workshops. 
2. Meng-Hsuan Lin, Whai-En Chen*, Chao-Hsi Huang, “HF-PMIPv6: An Enhanced Fast Handovers for 
Network-based Mobility Management”, International Conference On Advanced Infocomm Technology 
2011. 
3. Whai-En Chen, Tzu-Hsuan Wu, “IPv6 VoIP Deployment on Taiwan Academic Network (TANet)”, IEEE 
AINA2011 TeNAS. 
 
子計畫三：LTE/LTE-A 服務品質保證下允入控制與排程器關係之跨層設計研究(I) 
子計畫三目前完成二篇投稿和一篇待完成研究。依據研究數據顯示，這三個研究成果，能有效改
善無線基地台與微基地台，以及微基地台與用戶端之信號干擾，並能在相同環境下，提升用戶之允入
 國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明：（以 100 字為限） 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本研究成果可與日後相關計畫搭配，未來將可整合 3G 與 4G 及異質無線資
源整合與管理技術，成為 U-Taiwan 的全套解決方案。目前全球主要 LTE 設
備大廠雖早已進行布局，但多為專屬技術台灣廠商仍宜由國際標準切入。本
會研發成果可協助台灣廠商提升技術能力，積極邁向更高階的 OEM 或 ODM
市場進行布局。在 MAC 層開發、資料安全、測試、後端網路整合及管理部
份皆多有著墨，因此在開發模擬驗證平台時，進入門檻較低，且能以全觀的
角度去找尋及分析問題。利用 Matlab 軟體的分析能力，應用於國內通訊產
業，找出最佳的利基切入點，藉以增加產業競爭力。藉由技術能力及產品品
質的不斷提升，奠定台灣在第四代行動通訊系統相關產業之國際地位。本計
劃能提供 LTE/LTE-A 營運商佈建 LTE/LTE-A 無線通訊系統後，如何對系統進
行最佳化之調適以維持佈建 LTE/LTE-A 之效益與其效能。 
 
附件二 
may not be affordable when there are a huge number of 
M2M devices trying to access the network 
simultaneously. 
Without loss of generality, network congestion 
includes signaling network congestion and radio 
network congestion, as defined in 3GPP TR 37.868 [2], 
it may happen due to mass concurrent signaling and data 
transmissions. 
The signaling network congestion results from the 
processing procedure and system architecture of LTE. In 
LTE, there are a lot of control messages needed to be 
transmitted between user and Core Network (CN) node 
before accessing network successfully. MME is the key 
control-node of the LTE access-network, mobility, 
security and so on. In other words, the MME is the 
control center of users of one eNB. In fact, these are two 
key factors that may result in signaling network 
congestion: 1) When an application requests many M2M 
devices to do ’something’ at the same time; and/or 2) 
when many M2M devices are roamers and their serving 
network fails, then they can all move onto the local 
competing networks, and potentially overload the not 
(yet) failed network(s). The solutions of signaling 
network congestion have been discussed and decided in 
3GPP RAN#51 meeting. The method proposed in this 
paper focus on the solution for the radio network 
congestion rather than the signaling network 
congestion. 
The radio network congestion resulted from the 
contention scheme, which is applied for every device 
before accessing network, and the deployment of M2M 
devices. A large number of M2M devices are expected to 
be deployed in a specific area for certain purpose. If 
M2M devices contend for Uplink bandwidth with H2H 
devices simultaneously, the huge amount of M2M 
devices would decrease the contention success 
probability of H2H devices [4]. In the worst case, M2M 
devices may paralyze Random Access Channel. In this 
case, even there is UL bandwidth still, but no device can 
attach to the radio network due to severe collisions. 
Radio network congestion may cause intolerable delay, 
packet loss or even service unavailability. Mechanisms 
to guarantee network availability and help network to 
meet performance requirements under such M2M load is 
worthwhile to be investigated. 
3. Contention Scheme 
The RAN overload control has been identified as the 
first priority improvement topic in 3GPP RAN2 WG. 
Due to the characteristic of M2M devices, which a large 
number of M2M devices are expected to be deployed in 
a  
specific area, the network has to face increasing load 
as well as possible surges of M2M traffic. Mechanisms 
of RAN overload control have to be effective to protect 
the RAN for RACH overload and handle different 
realistic M2M access load without a significant impact 
on H2H traffic. 
In 3GPP TR 37.868, there are 6 envisioned RAN 
Improvements for M2M devices, includes Access Class 
Barring schemes (ACB), separate RACH resources for 
MTC, dynamic allocation of RACH resources, MTC 
specific backoff scheme, slotted access and pull based 
scheme.[2] 
In this section, we introduce the 6 envisioned RAN 
Improvements for M2M devices which are illustrated in 
3GPP TR 37.868; and in the section 3.7, we introduce 
the proposed alternative contention scheme, which 
combine the advantages of the contention schemes 
proposed in 3GPP RAN2 and avoid the impact to H2H 
devices. 
3.1. Access Class Barring scheme 
Separating Access Classes for M2M devices allow 
the network to separately control the access from M2M 
devices and other devices. Depending on the needs 
among M2M devices, there could be one or several 
Access Classes used for M2M devices.[7] 
3.2. Separate RACH resources for MTC 
When M2M devices share the RACH resources with 
H2H devices, they have almost the same access success 
probability and collision probability. Separate RACH 
resources for MTC could avoid the collision problem 
between M2M and H2H devices.[8] The separation of 
RACH resources could be done by dividing the 
 
Figure 2. Architecture of H2H and M2M communication 
• If there is no successful M2M device during the 
listening window of an M2M device of the same 
type, the listening M2M device is permitted to 
contend with H2H devices on the legacy PRACH 
after the listening window expires. We call this 
type of M2M devices as none-inheritable M2M 
devices. Frame structure of the none-inheritable 
M2M devices is shown in Figure 5. 
In legacy scheme, M2M devices contend with H2H 
devices at the same contention area. With 
Event-triggered based scheme, M2M devices contend 
with H2H devices only when there is no successful 
M2M device of the same type in contention during 
listening window. 
4. Simulation Model 
To evaluate the performance of the proposed 
contention schemes, the simulation is executed on 
OPNET with the reference of the traffic model, 
simulator methodology and simulation assumption are 
defined in TR 37.868. And finally, we compare the 
simulation results of these two proposed schemes with 
the legacy scheme. The legacy scheme is the scheme 
without any RAN improvement mechanism. The H2H 
devices and M2M devices share the same contention 
area. 
4.1. Traffic Models 
Table 1 Traffic models for M2M devices [2] 
Characteristics Traffic model 
Number of M2M devices for each type 2000 
Arrival distribution beta distribution 
Distribution period (T) 10 seconds 
In order to evaluate the network performance, the 
traffic models are assumed as listed in Table 1. 
Traffic model can be considered as an extreme 
scenario in which a large amount of M2M devices 
access the network simultaneously, for example when 
earthquake happens. 
4.2. Protocol level simulator methodology 
A single cell environment is assumed. In case of no 
collision, 1 ie−−  preamble detection probability is 
assumed, where i indicates the i-th preamble 
transmission, to take into account the effects of radio 
channels, for example path-loss, fading, inter-cell 
interference, etc. 
4.3. Impact on/from H2H device traffic 
According to TR 37.868, mechanisms of RAN 
overload control must be designed without a significant 
 
Figure 5. Frame structure of none-inheritable M2M devices 
 
Figure 4. Frame structure of second inheritable M2M devices 
proposed scheme, the performance of H2H devices 
would become much closer to the scenario without 
M2M devices if we allocate more RACH resources to 
M2M devices. 
 
Figure 7. Access success probability, percentage of 
additional RBs used for M2M contention and percentage of 
PRACH shared with H2H devices by different comtemtion 
scheme 
 
Figure 8. Access success probability and percentage of 
PRACH shared with H2H 
6. Conclusion 
In this paper, we proposed a new contention scheme 
to relieve the collision problem generated by M2M 
devices. The goal of this work is to increase the access 
probability and to reduce the number of preamble 
transmissions and access delay of M2M devices. 
Furthermore, the proposed scheme has to lower the 
impact to H2H devices. 
In Event-triggered based scheme, the M2M devices 
contend with H2H devices only when there isn’t any 
M2M devices with the same type contend successfully. 
Once a M2M device contends for a RACH opportunity, 
eNB would allocate a dedicated contention period for 
M2M devices. In simulation, we propose three resource 
allocation categories, allocates one, two and three 
PRACH respectively as dedicated contention area for 
M2M devices. From simulation result, firstly we can 
find out the relationship between access success 
probability and the length of listening window. If we 
allocate more dedicated PRACHs for M2M devices, 
there would be significant improvement in access 
success probability, number of preamble transmissions 
and access delay. In this proposed scheme, we not only 
improve the RACH capacity of M2M devices but also 
lower the impact to H2H devices. 
References 
[1] 3GPP TS 25.913 V9.0.0, "Requirements for Evolved UTRA 
(E-UTRA) and Evolved UTRAN (E-UTRAN)," Dec. 2009. 
[2] 3GPP TR 37.868 V0.7.0, "Study on RAN Improvements for 
Machine-type Communications,” Oct. 2010. 
[3] R2-103141, “Load Analysis for Fleet Management Application,” 
May 2010. 
[4] R2-103269, “Modifications to RACH Intensity of Smart Meters 
in TR 37.868,” May 2010. 
[5] R2-102749, “Report of 3GPP TSG RAN WG2 meeting #69bis,” 
Apr. 2010. 
[6] R2-105223,” Report of 3GPP TSG RAN WG2 meeting #70bis,” 
Jul. 2010. 
[7] R2-103907, “Solutions for RACH overload,” Jul. 2010. 
[8] R2-102297, “RAN Mechanisms to Distribute RACH Intensity,” 
Apr. 2010. 
[9] R2-103742, “Evaluation of Rach congestion solutions,” Jul. 
2010. 
[10] R2-103776, "Separate backoff scheme for MTC," Jul. 2010. 
[11] 3GPP RAN2 70bis R2-104663, “LTE: MTC LTE simulations,” 
ZTE, May. 2010
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/04
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 總計畫：以LTE/LTE-A為基礎之次世代網路建置技術之研究(I)
計畫主持人: 許獻聰
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-008-067- 學門領域: 網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
