行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
無線網狀網路下考慮多功率與 P2P應用之跨層繞路設計 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-004-004-MY2 
執行期限：97年 8月 1日至 99年 7月 31日 
主持人：蔡子傑   國立政治大學 資訊科學系 
計畫參與人員：劉彩鳳、蔡松達、陳維鴻、羅文卿 
 
此 成 果 報 告 為 五 篇 論 文 的 集 節 ： 
[1] Tzu-Chieh Tsai, Tsai-Feng Liu, "Multi-
Interface Routing with Intra/Inter-flow 
Interference (MiRii) Considerations in Wireless 
Mesh Networks", in 3rd Asia-Pacific Symposium on 
Queueing Theory and Network Applications 
(QTNA), July 30-August 2, 2008, Taipei, Taiwan.   
[2] Tzu-Chieh Tsai, Sung-Ta Tsai, Tsai-Feng Liu, 
"Cross-Layer Design for Multi-Power, Multi-
Interface Routing in Wireless Mesh Networks", 
accepted to appear in The Second International 
Conference on Advances in Mesh Networks (MESH 
2009), June 18-23, 2009 - Athens, Greece.(EI) 
[3] Tzu-Chieh Tsai, Sung-Ta Tsai, “M2iRi2: Multi-
power, Multi-interface Routing Protocol for 
Intra/Inter-flow Interference Considerations in 
Wireless Mesh Networks”, in International 
Conference on Communications and Networking in 
China, (CHINACOM 2009), Aug 26-28, 2009, Xi’an, 
China. (EI) 
[4] Tzu-Chieh Tsai, Sung-Ta Tsai, “A Cross-Layer 
Routing Design for Multi-Interface Wireless Mesh 
Networks”, in EURASIP Journal on Wireless 
Communications and Networking (EURASIP 
WCN)(SCI_E, EI), Vol. 2009, Article ID 208524, 
doi:10.1155/2009/208524, 2009. 
[5] Tzu-Chieh Tsai, Wei-Hung Chen, “Quality-
Aware Multiple Backbone Construction on Multi-
interface Wireless Mesh Networks for P2P 
Streaming”, in Third IEEE International 
Workshop on Enabling Technologies and Standards 
for Wireless Mesh Networking, (MeshTech 2009), 
Oct 12, 2009, Macau SAR, China. 
 
上述其中第四篇為期刊論文，為總結整理[1]~[3]
篇的會議論文的擴充版本。接下來首先我們先整
理摘錄[4]及[5]二篇論文在本計畫中的關聯度與
重要成果，後附上完整論文內容供參考。 
 
一、Abst r act  
 
無線網狀網路  (WMNs) 由於它的 self-
organized, self-configure 和較低的建置成本等
優點吸引許多學術和企業投入研究和探討。 IEEE 
802.11 TGs 積極的制定無線網狀網路的標準也使
得 WMNs研究更受到重視。  
無線網狀網路的主要特性在於使用 multi-
radio 和 multi-channel 並且應用於 multi-hop
的無線網路環境下。在過去的 Ad-hoc Network 針
對提升無線網路的傳輸效能做了許多研究，然而
Ad-hoc 下所做的研究並不完全適合於 WMNs，因為
在 ad-hoc 下設計的 routing protocol 並沒有把
WMNs 的 特 性 考 慮進去 (multi-radio, multi-
channel etc.)。另外，目前針對 WMNs 的研究大部
份主要針對不同的網路協定層獨立研究，以提高網
路效能，即使 IEEE 802.11 TGs 雖然提出了一個
預設的繞徑方法 HWMP 和一個可選擇的繞徑方法 
RA-OLSR，但並未充分利用各個網路層協定的資訊
來選擇最佳的繞送路徑。但是封包在網路中繞送
時，封包的傳輸是由各網路協定層交互影響，對單
一網路協 定層做最佳化無法完整的考量整體網路
的變動對封包的影響，尤其 video streaming 對 
packet loss 和 delay 的高敏感。因此透過 Cross 
Layer design 方法來設計 routing protocol，利
用各網路協定層的資訊，例如搭配動態調整
physical layer 參數或 application layer 的編
碼技術等使影音封包等在網路中傳送時能有最好的
效能，並提升整體網狀網路的效能。  
我們第一年(97/8~98/7)的研究目的，將針對
physical 和  network layer 設計一套 cross 
layer 的 routing protocol，每個 flow 將利用不
同網路協定層的資訊決定我們的繞送路徑。我們將
分別先以 inter/intra flow interference 考量繞
送路徑，再以 physical 層使用 multi-power 為考
architecture. Transmission power control and routing 
path selections are critical issues in the past researches 
of multihop networks. Variable transmission power 
levels lead to different network connectivity and 
interference. Further, routing path selections among 
different radio interfaces will also produce different 
intra/inter-flow interference. These features tightly 
affect the network performance. Most of the related 
works on the routing protocol design do not consider 
transmission power control and multi-interface 
environment simultaneously.  In this paper, we 
proposed a cross-layer routing protocol called M2iRi2 
which coordinates transmission power control and 
intra/inter-flow interference considerations as routing 
metrics. Each radio interface calculates the potential 
tolerable added transmission interference in the 
physical layer. When the route discovery starts, the 
M2iRi2 will adopt the appropriate power level to 
evaluate each interface quality along paths. The 
simulation results demonstrate that our design can 
enhance both network throughput and end-to-end 
delay. 
 
1.2 Main Results 
If we only consider “intra-flow” (means the same 
flow, but between different hops) interference, the 
routing metric WCETT can be as follows: 
jkj
n
i
i XETTWCETT ≤≤
=
+−= ∑ 11
max**)1( ββ  
However, the “inter-flow” interference should be 
also taken into account.  We proposed the metric called 
Activity Time (AT) to represent the inter-flow 
interference which can be calculated by the following 
equation: 
∑
∑
=
=
+
+
= m
nb
K
nbK
m
nb
K
nbK
K
NN
AT
1
1
λλ
 
Therefore, by combining both intra-flow and inter-
flow interferences, the MiRii routing cost is defined as 
follows.  
∑
≠
∈++= ≤≤
=
∑
dstsrcK
pathK KchanETTETTMiRii
AT
jkj
n
i
i
,
max
11
γβα
 
In the WMNs, the traffic loading changes 
dynamically due to leaving or entering the network of 
traffic flows. From the above observation, when the 
traffic loading is low, the traffic flows should select the 
higher transmission power to enhance the throughput 
and reduce delay. As the traffic loading is increased, 
the high transmission power imposes more 
interference that may disturb the ongoing transmission. 
The new traffic flow needs to choose the lower power 
level to transmit the data to alleviate interference.  
Further, the packet transmission at each hop on the 
routing path suffers propagation, handling, and 
queuing delays. When the traffic loading is low, the 
queuing day may be insignificant. It is better to use 
high transmission power to reduce hop count and also 
reduce the handling delay. However, under high traffic 
loading, the low transmission power reduces the 
queuing delay because the queue length will grow due 
to more neighbors’ interference or collisions. 
Therefore, it is a good policy that we should adapt the 
appropriate transmission power level according to the 
surrounding interference constraints. This is one of the 
basic motivations of our work. 
We first look at a simple topology (see Figure 1) 
which clearly demonstrates the benefits of using the 
appropriate transmission power level at different 
interference environments. The flow-based MiRii 
routing protocol is introduced to evaluate these two 
cases of power levels. The dash line in Figure 1 means 
the connectivity using 30mW power, while the 
communication range is double farther if using 
100mW power. Table I shows the throughput and end-
to-end delay with different traffic flow numbers. Each 
traffic flow transmits with data rate 
512KBits/sec. ”MiRii-30mW” indicates that we fix 
transmission power at 30mW in the entire network. 
The average end-to-end delay is defined as the time of 
packet from leaving the source to successful receiving 
at the destination. It includes the buffering time before 
the routing path discovery, the queuing time, the delay 
of retransmission at MAC layer, and propagation delay. 
When the number of traffic flow is one, the traffic 
loading is low and interference is slight. We can utilize 
high transmission power level (100mW) to reduce 
end-to-end delay since it can travel through small hop 
counts. When the numbers of flows are increased, the 
interference among radio interfaces is increased. 
MiRii-30mW can perform well since radio interfaces 
with lower transmission power level reduce the 
interference generating to its neighbors. The MiRii-
30mW has lower end-to-end delay and higher 
throughput than MiRii-100mW. 
 
Fig. 4.  A random network topology 
 
 
Fig. 5.  Throughput of different traffic load in a random network 
topology 
 
Traffic Type: CBR, Average Flow Number: 5 flows
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Multi
Power
Mirii
30mW
Mirii
100mW
AODV
30mW
AODV
100mW
A
ve
ra
ge
 E
nd
-t
o-
E
nd
 D
el
ay
 (
m
se
c)
CBR:512Kbits/s
CBR:1Mbits/s
 
Fig. 6.  Average end-to-end delay of different traffic load in a 
random network topology 
 
Finally, we simulate a WMN with gateways, we 
choose two nodes in Fig. 4 to play the roles of mesh 
gateways. The transmissions send the data packets to 
mesh gateways instead of random Source-Destination 
pairs. The traffic patterns tightly affect the 
performance of the routing protocol. Figure 7 and 
Figure 8 show the simulation results in this case. We 
observe that M2iRi2 still has better throughput and 
end-to-end delay than MiRii-30mW and MiRii-
100mW when the traffic data rate is 1Mbits/s.  All the 
routing protocols also operate well when the flow data 
rate is 512Kbits/s.  The destination-based AODV 
routing protocol might have the lower end-to-end 
delay depending on whether the traffic flows have the 
same destination (gateway) or not, which will reduce 
the route discovery time. The results also indicate that 
our M2iRi2 routing protocol operates well when the 
traffic are all going towards gateways in the WMN. 
 
Fig. 7.  Throughput of different traffic load in a random network 
topology with gateway 
 
Fig. 8.  Average end-to-end delay of different traffic load in a random 
network topology with gateway 
 
2. "Quality-Aware Multiple Backbone 
Construction on Multi-interface Wireless Mesh 
Networks for P2P Streaming" 
2.1 Abstract 
In Wireless Mesh Networks(WMNs), users can 
enjoy the real-time video streaming service anytime 
and anywhere through the service.  Compared to the 
client/server model, the P2P(Peer-to-peer) approach is 
more suitable for video streaming applications because 
of its efficient usage of network resources. However, 
the multimedia applications are very sensitive to delay 
time and the performance of packets transmission 
which is significantly influenced by the co-channel 
interference. In our approach, we choose the better 
quality links for routing instead of the minimum hop-
count path in MAODV(Multicast Ad hoc On-demand 
Distance Vector).  Then we distribute the video 
streaming to receivers by using multicasting in multi-
channel WMNs, and modify the MAODV routing 
Traffic Type: CBR, Average Flow Number: 5 flows 
0 
500 1000 
 
1500 
 
2000 
 
2500 
 
3000 
 
3500 
 
4000 
 
4500 
 
5000 
 
Multi 
Power 
Mirii 
30mW 
Mirii 
100mW 
AODV 
30mW 
AODV 
100mW 
Throughput (Kbps) 
CBR:512Kbits/s 
1Mbits/s 
M2iRi2 
We perform the simulation using NS-2 and 
compare the following four cases: (C1) Video 
multicast with MDC and MAODV, (C2) Video 
multicast with MDC and two-channel MT-MAODV 
[6], (C3) Video multicast with MDC and ST-MAODV 
for one tree, and (C4) Video multicast with MDC and 
ST-MAODV for two disjoint trees. The NS-2 is 
modified to support MAODV routing protocol and 
multi-interface operation with multi-channels on each 
wireless node.  Three scenarios for different flow 
settings are evaluated. 
Scenario 1 
In the first scenario, all receivers join the multicast 
group per 5 seconds. Figure 10 shows the average 
delay time with different number of receivers.  The 
average delay time is for data transfer from a sender to 
a receiver. We can see that our ST-MAODV protocol 
is better than others, because the link with less ETT 
means that it may need less time to transfer packets 
successfully. 
 
Fig. 10. Average delay time. 
 
Fig. 11. Quality of video frames. 
Figure 11 gives the distribution of video frames 
according to their quality. With the MDC scheme, 
using multiple disjoint trees can significantly reduce 
the number of ‘bad’ frames (both descriptions of a 
particular frame are lost), as shown in case C2 and C4, 
because the probability of losing both video 
descriptions together is smaller. Different from the 
minimum hop-count path of MT-MAODV, our 
approach selects paths with higher link quality, and 
thus avoids local congestion so that the quantity of 
good frames (both descriptions are received) and 
acceptable frames (one description is received, and one 
is lost) of C3 are better than C1. 
Scenario 2 
In scenario 1, there is just one video traffic flow in the 
simulation environment. Here we add one FTP flow to 
be the background traffic to make some interference. 
The FTP flow is between two nodes which were 
selected randomly, and the data rate is 500 kbps. With 
some background traffic, there might be more 
contention and traffic congestion.  We can see from 
Figures 12 & 13 that both C3 and C4 perform better 
than C1 and C2, because with some interferences, our 
ST-MAODV can still build trees from those better 
quality links, and with two disjoint trees, the quality of 
C4 is superior to C3. 
 
Fig. 12. Average delay time. 
 
Fig. 13. Quality of video frames. 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98年 5月 27日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：無線網狀網路下考慮多功率與 P2P應用之跨層繞路設計 
計畫主持人： 蔡子傑        
計畫編號： NSC 97-2221-E-004-004-MY2    學門領域：電信(網路) 
技術/創作名稱 A Cross-Layer Routing Design for Multi-Interface 
Wireless Mesh Networks 
發明人/創作人 蔡子傑，蔡松達 
技術說明 
中文：近年來無線網狀網路(Wireless Mesh Networks)備受矚目，
無線網狀網路繼承原有的 ad hoc networks 的特性並提供階層式
及多網卡的網路存取架構。在 multi-hop networks 下，傳輸功率
的控制和網路路由的選擇是重要的議題，因為不同的傳輸功率產
生不同的網路拓墣連結性和干擾。此外，在不同網路卡間的路由
選擇也會產生不同程度的 intra/inter-flow 干擾。這些特性對
網路效能有密切的影響，過去相關的路由協定設計也大多未同時
考量傳輸功率控制與多網路卡的特性。  
我們提出了跨網路協定層的路由協定，稱作 M2iRi2，同時考量
傳輸功率的控制並將 Intra/Inter-flow 的干擾導入到路由路徑的
選擇。節點上的網路卡在物理層(Physical layer) 計算目前對潛
在可容忍的新增干擾，並將此訊息送到網路層(Network layer)和
鄰居節點作交換。透過此資訊的交換，在路由發現時控制路由請
求封包的傳輸功率，當路由建立後，封包根據路由表的記載，選
擇所對應的路由路徑和傳輸功率。經由 NS-2 模擬結果顯示，我們
所提出的跨網路協定層路由協定可同時兼顧網路的吞吐量和平均
點對點的延遲。 
 
附件二 
推廣及運用的價
值 
在技術的不斷提昇下，使得建置隨時隨地能無線上網的城市成為
可能。而 802.11s Wireless Mesh Network就是可能的技術之一。然
能有效降低營運成本與提昇服務品質，有效的網路資源管理是相
當重要的課題。本研究成果可供相關業者一個很重要的參考依
據。 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：無線網狀網路下考慮多功率與 P2P應用之跨層繞路設計 
計畫主持人： 蔡子傑        
計畫編號： NSC 97-2221-E-004-004-MY2    學門領域：電信(網路) 
技術/創作名稱 Quality-Aware Multiple Backbone Construction on Multi-
interface Wireless Mesh Networks for P2P Streaming 
發明人/創作人 蔡子傑， 陳維鴻 
技術說明 
中文：無線網狀網路(WMNs)為目前熱門的廣域無線網路接取技術。
使用者可以透過 WMNs 隨時在各處使用即時影音播放的服務。相較
於傳統的主從式架構，低成本且容易建置的點對點架構更適用於
影音串流的應用；在進行即時影音播放的時候，影音播放的品質
便為相當重要的目標。因為多媒體應用服務對於延遲及網路傳輸
效能相當敏感，且 WMNs 的傳輸過程中常會面臨同頻道干擾的問題
而使得傳輸的效能銳減，當每個網路節點都具有多張無線網路卡
時，如何善用 WMNs 多頻道傳輸的特性提升效能更是顯得特別重
要。 
我們利用 WMNs 多頻道傳輸的特性進行多媒體群播傳輸，參考
史坦納樹的概念來改善現有的 MAODV 路由演算法，以傳輸品質較
佳的鏈結改良原本尋找最小跳躍數路徑的方式，建立兩棵完全互
斥的群播樹作為點對點傳輸的骨幹網路，並以 MDC 的概念將影像
串流編碼成兩份獨立的子串流分別經由不同的群播樹傳輸。經實
驗評估，我們的方法在網路負載較高的環境下能有效的降低延遲
並提高整體系統的效能。 
 ※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研發成果推廣單
位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
Hindawi Publishing Corporation
EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications and Networking
Volume 2009, Article ID 208524, 8 pages
doi:10.1155/2009/208524
Research Article
A Cross-Layer Routing Design for Multi-Interface
Wireless Mesh Networks
Tzu-Chieh Tsai and Sung-Ta Tsai
Department of Computer Science, National Chengchi University, Taipei, Taiwan
Correspondence should be addressed to Tzu-Chieh Tsai, ttsai@cs.nccu.edu.tw
Received 15 April 2009; Accepted 7 August 2009
Recommended by Naveen Chilamkurti
In recent years, Wireless Mesh Networks (WMNs) technologies have received significant attentions. WMNs not only accede to
the advantages of ad hoc networks but also provide hierarchical multi-interface architecture. Transmission power control and
routing path selections are critical issues in the past researches of multihop networks. Variable transmission power levels lead
to diﬀerent network connectivity and interference. Further, routing path selections among diﬀerent radio interfaces will also
produce diﬀerent intra-/interflow interference. These features tightly aﬀect the network performance. Most of the related works
on the routing protocol design do not consider transmission power control and multi-interface environment simultaneously.
In this paper, we proposed a cross-layer routing protocol called M2iRi2 which coordinates transmission power control and intra-
/interflow interference considerations as routing metrics. Each radio interface calculates the potential tolerable-added transmission
interference in the physical layer. When the route discovery starts, the M2iRi2 will adopt the appropriate power level to evaluate
each interface quality along paths. The simulation results demonstrate that our design can enhance both network throughput and
end-to-end delay.
Copyright © 2009 T.-C. Tsai and S.-T. Tsai. This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution
License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly
cited.
1. Introduction
Wireless Mesh Networks (WMNs) have the characterisitcs of
low deployment cost, easy maintenance, and reliable service
coverage technologies to form robustness networks. The
task group “s” (TGs) of IEEE 802.11 develops a flexible
and extensible standard for wireless mesh networks based
on the original IEEE 802.11. However, IEEE 802.11 TGs
adopts two main proposals—SEE-Mesh (Intel) and Wi-Mesh
(Nortel) intending to specify a framework for WLAN Mesh
networking [1]. In WMNs, nodes are comprised of mesh
routers and mesh clients [2]. Mesh routers form a wireless
backbone of WMNs, which provide multi-hop connectivities
between mesh clients and mesh gateways that have wired
connectivity with Internet (Figure 1).
WMNs are dynamically self-organized and self-
configured, with the nodes in the network automatically
establishing and maintaining mesh connectivity among
themselves and compatible with conventional Wi-Fi clients.
Multi-interface WMNs provide multiple radio interfaces of
a node that can improve the throughput capacity [3]. This
feature enables nodes to transmit and receive simultaneously,
hence nodes can use nonoverlapping channels to transmit
and receive at the same time via diﬀerent interfaces. WMNs
technologies accede to the advantages of ad hoc networks.
Traditional ad hoc network routing protocols may not be
suitalbe for WMNs since they do not fully consider the
features of WMNs such as multi-interface. In IEEE 802.11s,
it presents the prototype of default path selection protocol-
HWMP (Hybrid Wireless Mesh Protocol) and routing
metric-airtime cost. The implementation details can be
based on user demands. Several routing protocol designs for
WMNs [4, 5] focus on single layer of network protocol stacks
and do not consider coordinating with diﬀerent protocol
layers. Specifically, in the physical layer, the transmission
power level decides the signal strength and determines the
neighbor nodes which can hear the packet. This thus aﬀects
the network layer to select the forwarding nodes at the
route discovery. The transmission power also causes the
interference that aﬀect the link quality among nodes. The
EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications and Networking 3
acceptable-power-to-send (APTS) back to the sender. In
other words, the protocol design is based on CSMA/CA
and modifies the RTS/CTS to RPTS/APTS (Request-Power-
To-Send/Acceptable-Power-To-Send) to support potential
interfering transmissions to transmit concurrently rather
than to silence it. However, PCMA uses the additional
separate control channel to send the busy tone pulses.
PCDC (Power Controlled Dual Channel) [14] also uses dual
channels for data and control packets. A single channel
solution for transmission power control (POWMAC) is used
in [15]. In POWMAC, the interference tolerance is inserted
into the CTS packet and an additional control packet DTS
(Decide-To-Send) is used by transmitter to confirm the
transmission. Furthermore, the DTS is utilized to inform
the neighbors of transmitter about the power level that the
transmitter will use for its data transmission. The neighbors
of the transmitter can determine whether or not they can
receive the data packets form other nodes simultaneously
through DTS.
From the comparisons of [8, 14, 15], we finally adopt
the interference tolerance concept to be integrated into
our cross-layer routing protocol design. We will facilitate
concurrent interference-tolerable transmissions in the same
vicinity of the receiver to enhance the WMN backbone
capacity. Furthermore, we piggyback the interference toler-
ance information in probe packets which are integrated in
the network layer routing protocol. It is not using a separate
control channel to alert the neighboring nodes.
2.2. Routing Metrics in WMNs. Most of the routing protocols
use “hop count” as the routing metric. The minimum hop-
count routing is not suitable for wireless networks because
of dynamic wireless link quality characteristics. The work in
[4, 13] proposes new routing metrics considering the link
quality dynamics. MiRii proposed in [5] further considers
the intra-/interflow interferences in multi-interface routing
path selections.
The work in [13] proposed the concept of the expected
transmission count (ETX) as the routing metric. ETX is
calculated by measuring the delivery ratios for probe packets
in bidirectional transmissions of each link. It predicts the
number of data transmissions required to send a packet
and get a successful acknowledgment. Therefore, the ETX
accounts for interference among the successive links of a
path. Although ETX does well in single-radio wireless ad
hoc network, it does not perform well in multiradio and
multichannel wireless mesh networks. Reference [4] presents
a new routing metric for multiradio, multihop wireless mesh
networks, called WCETT (Weighted Cumulative Expected
Transmission Time). WCETT assigns weights to individual
links based on the Expected Transmission Time (ETT) of
a packet over the link. As a result, the WCETT of a route
with n hops can be the sum of the ETTs of all hops along
the path. Further, WCETT assumes that the network has a
total of k channels in an n-hop path. However, Xj is the
sum of transmission time of hops that uses channel j along
the path. The total path throughput will be dominated by
the bottleneck channel, which has the highest Xj . WCETT
takes both link quality (ETT) and channel diversity (Xj) into
considerations. Thus, WCETT combines these two features
by taking their weighted average as follows:
WCETT = (1− β)∗
n∑
i=1
ETTi + β ∗ max
1≤ j≤k
Xj . (1)
In fact, the WCETT metric takes “intraflow” (means
the same flow, but between diﬀerent hops) interference
into consideration, but does not capture “interflow” (means
between diﬀerent neighboring flows) interference. In our
previous work [5], we propose a new routing metric, MiRii,
that considers both intraflow and interflow interference
in the multi-interface WMNs. In order to capture the
interflow interference, we calculate the nodal activity and
intertraﬃc flow interference. We introduce Little’s Result
into the routing metric design that makes the interflow
interference unit cost compatible with WCETT. To this end,
we assume node k and node k’s neighboring nodes as a
closed system and the Activity Time (AT) of node k is shown
in (2). Also, Nk and λk are the average queue length and
average packet receiving rate of node k, respectively. The
sum of average queue length of k’s neighboring nodes is
the second parameter of numerator, and the sum of average
packet receiving rate of k’s neighboring nodes is the second
parameter of denominator in (2). The Activity Time (ATk)
regarding to k is the total average queue length divided by
total average packet receiving rate of the system:
ATk = Nk +
∑m
nb=1 N
k
nb
λk +
∑m
nb=1 λ
k
nb
. (2)
Therefore, by combining both intraflow and interflow inter-
ferences, the MiRii routing cost is defined as (3)
MiRii=α
n∑
i=1
ETTi+β ∗ max
1≤ j≤k
chanETT j+γ
∑
k∈path & k /= src,dst
ATk,
(3)
where α, β, and γ are the constant weights subject to α +
β + γ = 1. Also, ∑ETTi means the total link quality con-
siderations and end-to-end delay over an n-hops path. The∑
chanETTi is the sum of transmission times of hops using
channel j, and represents the channel-diversity in multiradio
WMNs. Finally,
∑
ATk is the interflow interference, and
represents the load-balanced routing cost.
3. Cross-Layer Routing Protocol Design
In the WMNs, the traﬃc loading changes dynamically due
to leaving or entering the network of traﬃc flows. From the
above observation, when the traﬃc loading is low, the traﬃc
flows should select the higher transmission power to enhance
the throughput and reduce delay. As the traﬃc loading
is increased, the high transmission power imposes more
interference that may disturb the ongoing transmission. The
new traﬃc flow needs to choose the lower power level
to transmit the data to alleviate interference. Further, the
packet transmission at each hop on the routing path suﬀers
EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications and Networking 5
Type J R G D U Reserved Hop count
RREQ ID
Destination IP address
Destination sequence number
Originator IP address
Originator sequence number
ΣETTlink
Σ chanETTlink
ΣATnode
Fid
TxPower
Figure 3: The format of RREQ packet.
adjusts the transmission power level for this traﬃc flow to
forward to the next hop.
The data transmission is based on CSMA/CA and the
iTolerance value at the radio interface changes dynamically.
So, we still transmit the data packet by using the lowest
transmission power level even if there is no power level
satisfied the iTolerance constraints. Notice that here, for
simplicity and fair performance comparisons later, we do
not apply call admission control to reject any new flows.
The Route Request (RREQ) packet format is illustrated in
Figure 3. The fields of (
∑
ETTlink,
∑
chanETTlink,
∑
ATnode)
are used to calculate the MiRii value. The fields of (Fid,
TxPower) are utilized to achieve the per-flow transmission
power control.
In reality, the channel fading and interference change
dynamically. It is diﬃcult to calculate exact tolerable power
level or link quality. There are some papers [16, 17] that
proposed diﬀerent approaches to deal with these. However,
in concern with complexity of the algortihm, we are not
dealing with the fading channel problem here. Instead, in
our design, we use the “moving average” estimation to
find the path in the sense of “statistically approximation”.
Thus, it may combat the slow fading but not fast fading
channels. Our proposed M2iRi2 can find the path with
considering both existing and tolerable adding intereference.
In this way, the throughput is increased with reducing the
failed transmissions due to suﬀering too much intereference.
Therefore, energy consumption from the system view is
reduced, and eﬃciency is increased.
4. Simulation Results and Analysis
In this section, we evaluate the throughput and delay for
M2iRi2 using NS-2 and contrast it with the flow-based
MiRii and AODV routing protocol. The radio propagation
model adopts Two-Ray Ground model in NS-2. Each node is
equipped with two NICs. The oﬀ-the-shelf Cisco Aironet 350
series client adapters or access points allow diﬀerent transmit
power setting for one of 1, 5, 20, 30, 50, and 100 mW. We
adopt the 30 mW and 100 mW in our NS-2 simulation. The
SINR threshold is setting to 6.02 dB and the noise floor
at each node is −120 dBm. The traﬃc flow type is CBR
0 1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9
Flow1 Flow2
Flow3 Flow4
Figure 4: A simple network topology.
Table 1: Delay-Throughput with diﬀerent power levels.
Number of flows 1 2 3 4
MiRii-30 mW delay (ms) 14.0 37.9 102.3 157.7
MiRii-30 mW throughput (Kbps) 511.1 884.7 1119 1284
MiRii-100 mW delay (ms) 11.8 16.8 141.5 210.6
MiRii-100 mW throughput (Kbps) 510.2 1004 1057 931
(Constant Bit Rate) during the ON period of an equally ON-
OFF model and the packet sizes are 1000 Bytes.
We first look at a simple topology (see Figure 4) which
clearly demonstrates the benefits of using the appropriate
transmission power level at diﬀerent interference environ-
ments. The flow-based MiRii routing protocol is introduced
to evaluate these two cases of power levels. The dash
line in 4 denotes the connectivity using 30 mW power,
while the communication range is double farther if using
100 mW power. Table 1 shows the throughput and end-to-
end delay with diﬀerent traﬃc flow numbers. Each traﬃc
flow transmits with data rate 512 KBits/s. “MiRii-30 mW”
indicates that we fix transmission power at 30 mW in the
entire network. The average end-to-end delay is defined as
the time of packet from leaving the source to successful
receiving at the destination. It includes the buﬀering time
before the routing path discovery, the queuing time, the
delay of retransmission at MAC layer, and propagation
delay. When the number of traﬃc flow is one, the traﬃc
loading is low and interference is slight. We can utilize high
transmission power level (100 mW) to reduce end-to-end
delay since it can travel through small hop counts. When the
numbers of flows are increased, the interference among radio
interfaces is increased. MiRii-30 mW can perform well since
radio interfaces with lower transmission power level reduce
the interference generating to its neighbors. The MiRii-
30 mW has lower end-to-end delay and higher throughput
than MiRii-100 mW.
Now we consider a 4× 4 uniform topology in a
500 m× 500 m region. Each node locates 80 meters apart.
In Figure 5, the light color (red) bars represent the high
traﬃc loading with data rate 1 Mbits/s and the dark color
(blue) bars represent the low traﬃc loading with data rate
512 Kbits/s. We consider the traﬃc flows in the WMNs
randomly start and terminate. We let the CBR traﬃc flow
randomly on/oﬀ but keep the number of active flows in
the network to be five in average. The numbers of traﬃc
flows and traﬃc pattern are the same in both cases. Figure 5
shows that all the routing protocol can operate well in the
low traﬃc loading. Because the traﬃc flows are randomly
EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications and Networking 7
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
A
ve
ra
ge
en
d-
to
-e
n
d
de
la
y
(m
se
c)
M iRi Mirii
30 mW
Mirii
100 mW
AODV
30 mW
AODV
100 mW
CBR: 512 Kbits/s
CBR: 1 Mbits/s
Traﬃc type: CBR, average flow number: 5 flows
Figure 9: Average end-to-end delay of diﬀerent traﬃc load in a
random network topology.
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
T
h
ro
u
gh
pu
t
(K
bp
s)
M iRi Mirii
30 mW
Mirii
100 mW
AODV
30 mW
AODV
100 mW
CBR: 512 Kbits/s
1 Mbits/s
Traﬃc type: CBR, average flow number: 5 flows
Figure 10: Throughput of diﬀerent traﬃc load in a random
network topology with gateway.
0
20
40
60
80
100
A
ve
ra
ge
en
d-
to
-e
n
d
de
la
y
(m
se
c)
M iRi Mirii
30 mW
Mirii
100 mW
AODV
30 mW
AODV
100 mW
CBR: 512 Kbits/s
CBR: 1 Mbits/s
Traﬃc type: CBR, average flow number: 5 flows
Figure 11: Average end-to-end delay of diﬀerent tra0-40pt
also operate well when the flow data rate is 512 Kbits/s. The
destination-based AODV routing protocol might have the
lower end-to-end delay depending on whether the traﬃc
flows have the same destination (gateway) or not, which will
reduce the route discovery time. The results also indicate that
our M2iRi2 routing protocol operates well when the traﬃc
are all going towards gateways in the WMN.
5. Conclusion and Future Work
In the paper, we proposed M2iRi2 routing protocol for
multi-interface WMNs. The main purpose is to coordinate
the physical layer and the network layer for a cross-layer
routing protocol development. Previous researches show that
variable transmit power level control can improve network
performance but they still use minimum hop counts as the
routing metric. We introduce the iTolerance to constrain
the transmit power level and incorporate it to the route
discovery. The MiRii routing metric is utilized to evaluate
the routing path with consideration of both intraflow and
interflow interferences. Furthermore, the power control is
designed on perflow, perhop basis. We thoroughly observe
the performance of M2iRi2 at diﬀerent traﬃc loadings.
When the traﬃc loading is high, the newly traﬃc flow
chooses the appropriate transmission power level along less
interference path to transmit the data packets in order not to
create intolerable interference to the existing transmissions.
Through the simulation results, we have demonstrated that
our M2iRi2 routing protocol can enhance both network
throughput and end-to-end delay.
In the current version of M2iRi2 routing protocol, the
traﬃc flow selects the lowest power level even if it would
violate the interference tolerance constraint. In the future,
we may incorporate M2iRi2 with the traﬃc flow admission
control and extends the M2iRi2 to more stability and even
better performance.
Acknowledgment
This work is granted by NSC-97-2221-E-004-004-MY2.
References
[1] H. Aoki, N. Chari, L. Chu, et al., “802.11 TGs simple eﬃcient
extensible mesh (SEE-Mesh) proposal,” IEEE802.11 document
05/0562r0, 2005.
[2] I. F. Akyildiz and X. Wang, “A survey on wireless mesh
networks,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 43, no. 9, pp.
22–30, 2005.
[3] A. Adya, P. Bahl, J. Padhye, A. Wolman, and L. Zhou, “A multi-
radio unification protocol for IEEE 802.11 wireless networks,”
in Proceedings of the 1st IEEE International Conference on
Broadband Networks (BroadNets ’04), pp. 344–354, October
2004.
[4] J. Padhye, R. Draves, and B. Zill, “Routing in multi-radio,
multi-hop wireless mesh networks,” in Proceedings of the 10th
Annual International Conference on Mobile Computing and
Networking (MOBICOM ’04), pp. 114–128, Philadelphia, Pa,
USA, 2004.
Quality-Aware Multiple Backbone Construction on 
Multi-interface Wireless Mesh Networks for P2P 
Streaming
Tzu-Chieh Tsai 
Department of Computer Science 
National Chengchi University 
Taipei, Taiwan  
Email: ttsai@cs.nccu.edu.tw  
 
 
Abstract—In Wireless Mesh Networks(WMNs), users can enjoy 
the real-time video streaming service anytime and anywhere 
through the service.  Compared to the client/server model, the 
P2P(Peer-to-peer) approach is more suitable for video streaming 
applications because of its efficient usage of network resources. 
However, the multimedia applications are very sensitive to delay 
time and the performance of packets transmission which is 
significantly influenced by the co-channel interference. In our 
approach, we choose the better quality links for routing instead 
of the minimum hop-count path in MAODV(Multicast Ad hoc 
On-demand Distance Vector).  Then we distribute the video 
streaming to receivers by using multicasting in multi-channel 
WMNs, and modify the MAODV routing protocol to construct 
two disjoint multicast trees as the backbone for the P2P structure. 
Therefore, we can adopt the MDC(Multiple Description Coding) 
scheme to encode the video into two independent sub-streams 
and transmit separately along these trees. Experiment results 
show that in higher traffic load environment, our scheme is more 
effective to reduce the latency and improve overall system 
performance. 
Keywords-Wireless Mesh Networks, P2P, MAODV, multi-
interface,  MDC 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Wireless mesh networks (WMNs) support applications like 
real-time applications such as video streaming and voice 
conferencing. Multimedia streaming over the WMNs has 
become a reality with the development of media compression 
methods [1], high-throughput storage systems, and broadband 
networking technology. However, there are still many 
challenges towards building cost-effective, robust, and scalable 
multimedia streaming systems due to the stringent bandwidth, 
packet loss, and delay requirements for media streaming.  
For supporting real-time video streaming in the WMN, QoS 
provisioning for such applications is an essential requirement. 
Figure 1 shows an example of video streaming over WMNs. If 
a station (STA) wants to watch the real-time video streaming, it 
will send a request message to the mesh access point (MAP). 
After receiving the message, MAP relays the request to the 
mesh point (MP), then MP (for simplicity without loss of 
generality, assuming that it has the source of the video, or 
obtain the video content from the Internet source) begins to 
transmit the video streaming to the requested MAP along the 
reverse routing path.  Here MAP can play as the role of ‘agent’ 
for those STAs with the same video request under its coverage.  
Once the MAP receives the video content, it can broadcast to 
all its stations. If there are many stations that want to watch the 
same video simultaneously, then each corresponding agent 
MAP will request to the same source MP.  In this case, the 
source MP will be a bottleneck and the performance will be 
severely degraded due to lack of network bandwidth, or 
congestion.  Therefore, P2P streaming approach is a better 
choice to reduce the overloading of the source.   In P2P, each 
peer contributes its share of resources and cooperates with 
other peers according to some predefined rules for 
communications. Besides, the most important difference 
between P2P and the server/client paradigms, a P2P streaming 
system uses the ‘play-while-downloading’ mode. And, the 
requesting peers playback and store the media data during the 
streaming session, and they become supplying peers of the 
media file after the streaming session.  
 
 
Figure 1.  Video streaming over WMNs 
Here, in supporting P2P overlay network, a multicast tree 
among all the corresponding agents (MAPs) will be 
constructed.  Although the mesh topology for P2P overlay 
networks can be an alternative, the tree topology is suitable for 
easy deployment and quick response.  It is because video 
multicast is an efficient bandwidth-saving technology which 
intends to transmit the packets from the source to a set of nodes.     
This work is granted by project NSC 97-2221-E-004-004-MY2  
insufficient to construct the second tree, we can use the portion 
of used links of the first tree to construct. 
ETT of each interface card is estimated by probing on that 
channel used for it.  ETT can be interpreted as the loading or 
inverse of link quality associated with the link.  Intuitively, 
when constructing the tree by adding links one by one, the total 
cost of the tree is the sum of ETTs with all links on the tree.  
However, due to broadcast characteristic of wireless channels, 
using the same channel for multicast, one transmission is 
enough for all the down-stream nodes.   For example, as shown 
in Figure 2, the number indicated on the link means ETT 
estimated by using the associated channel/interface.  If node A 
uses the same channel 0 to multicast to nodes B and C (Figure 
2(a)), node A transmits only once, as result of total cost of 
maximum of 5 and 3, which is 5, not sum of 5 and 3, which is 
8.  If node A uses different channels to multicast, say using 
channel 0 to node B, and channel 1 to node C, the total cost 
will be the sum of the two costs which is 8 (Figure 2(b)). 
Therefore, if the node A and B are already in the multicast 
group using the channel 1 as the connection, and sometime 
later node C wants to join the tree.  It will cause less additional 
cost (which is 2) if using the channel 1 connection to establish 
the link from node A to C. 
 
Figure 2.  Multicast uses the same or different channels. 
The following is the procedure for our ST-MAODV 
protocol: 
• Nodes send probing messages once in a while for each 
channel to calculate the value of ETT for each link to 
the adjacent nodes.   
• When a node wants to join the multicast group, 
broadcast RREQ packets to adjacent nodes. 
• When a node receives the RREQ, check whether it 
belongs to the group member.  If yes, reply RREP via 
the reserve path to the requesting node.  If not, keep 
broadcasting RREQ packets to other nodes until the 
group member has received.   
• When the requesting node receives RREPs, decide a 
path with minimum path ETT to construct the first 
multicast tree.   
• Then keep finding out the next minimum path ETT to 
construct the second multicast tree from the remaining 
unused links.   
When propagating RREQ, the cost of the associated path is 
incremented with the rule presented in Figure 2.  Because the 
cost of multicast tree depends on the use of the same or 
different channels, the incremental cost of unused links should 
be subtracted by the cost of the used links’ maximum cost 
using the same channel.   So we update the unused links' cost 
of the nodes in the first multicast tree, and then find out the 
second one using the updated additional cost. 
For nodes in accordance with the order to join the group, 
repeat steps 2 to 5 until all the nodes have joined the two 
multicast trees. 
Figure 3 is a simple example. The node A is the source 
node; nodes B, C, D, E and F are the destination nodes and 
have not yet joined the multicast group. Each node has two 
interface cards using channel 0 and 1, respectively.  The 
number indicated on the link represents ETT cost associated 
with that channel. Figure 4 shows how node C joins the 
multicast group. First of all, find a minimum total-cost path 
from node C to node A and add the path to the first multicast 
tree.  This tree is indicated as dart blue path in Figure 4.  Then 
we find another minimum total-cost path from the remaining 
unused links to construct the second multicast tree which is 
indicated as dark red path in Figure 4. 
After constructing two disjoint trees for node C, update the 
costs of these unused links of the nodes in the tree paths as 
shown as Figure 5. The path of the first tree (blue color) is 
through node H and node I. The link between node A and node 
H uses channel 1 and the cost is 2, so that if node A connects to 
node F with channel 1 later, then it only needs to spend an 
additional 2 unit of cost. In other words, node A can just 
spends 4 unit of cost to multicast to node H and node F by 
channel 1, so the cost of the link between node F to the first 
tree by channel 1 could be updated to 2 unit. Similarly, update 
the costs of the unused channel 1 links to other neighbors from 
node H and node I. After all, update the costs of the unused 
links of the nodes in the second tree indicated after ‘/’ sign. 
 
 
Figure 3.  Each node transfers data with two channels. 
 
 
 
and acceptable frames (one description is received, and one is 
lost) of C3 are better than C1. 
B. Scenario 2 
In scenario 1, there is just one video traffic flow in the 
simulation environment. Here we add one FTP flow to be the 
background traffic to make some interference. The FTP flow is 
between two nodes which were selected randomly, and the data 
rate is 500 kbps. With some background traffic, there might be 
more contention and traffic congestion.  We can see from 
Figures 9 & 10 that both C3 and C4 perform better than C1 and 
C2, because with some interferences, our ST-MAODV can still 
build trees from those better quality links, and with two disjoint 
trees, the quality of C4 is superior to C3. 
 
Figure 9.  Average delay time. 
 
Figure 10.  Quality of video frames. 
C. Scenario 3 
Now we compare the two-channel MT-MAODV and ST-
MAODV with different data rate. As shown as Figure 11 to 
Figure 14, only ten receivers join the multicast group at the 
same time.  We compare the packet deliver ratio and average 
delay time with different data rate from 10 kbps to 11 Mbps. In 
Figures 11 and 12, the two-channel MT-MAODV is better than 
our ST-MAODV when the data rate is less than 100 kbps.  This 
means that when lower network traffic load, the performance 
of two-channel MT-MAODV is better.  However, with the 
increasing of traffic loading, our approach is more suitable for 
data transmission. 
Figures 13 & 14 show the average delay time and the 
latency ratio between C2 and C4, respectively.  When data rate 
increases, delay time also increases significantly.  However, 
ST-MAODV still has lower delay time.  This shows that our 
approach is more suitable in the environment with higher 
network traffic load. 
 
Figure 11.  Compare PDR with different data rate. 
 
Figure 12.  PDR ratio of C2 and C4. 
 
Figure 13.  Compare average delay time with different data rate. 
 
Figure 14.  Latency ratio of C2 and C4. 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          98  年  10 月 1  日 
報告人姓名  
蔡子傑 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
政大資訊科學系 
副教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
Aug 26-28, 2009 
Xi’an, China 
本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC 97-2221-E-004 -004 – MY2 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 
 (英文) 2009 Fourth International Conference on Communications 
and Networking in China (Chinacom2009) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 
 (英文) M2iRi2: Multi-power, Multi-interface Routing Protocol for Intra/Inter-
flow Interference Considerations in Wireless Mesh Networks 
附
件
三 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年11月02日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
子計畫四:無線網狀網路下考慮多功率與P2P應用之跨層繞路設計
蔡子傑
97 -2221-E -004 -004 - 網路
A Cross-Layer Routing Design for Multi-Interface Wireless Mesh
Networks
國立政治大學 蔡子傑,蔡松達,劉彩鳳
近年來無線網狀網路(Wireless Mesh Networks)備受矚目，無線網狀網路繼承
原有的ad hoc networks的特性並提供階層式及多網卡的網路存取架構。在
multi-hop networks下，傳輸功率 的控制和網路 路 由的選擇是重要的議題，
因為不同的傳輸功率產生不同的網路拓墣連結性和干擾。此外，在不同網路卡
間的路由選擇也會產生不同程度的intra/inter-flow 干擾。這些特性對網路效
能有密切的影響，過去相關的路由協定設計也大多未同時考量傳輸功率控制與
多網路卡的特性。
<br>
我們提出了跨網路協定層的路由協定，稱作M2iRi2，同時考量 傳輸功率的控制
並將Intra/Inter-flow的干擾導入到路由路徑的選擇。節點上的網路卡在物理
層(Physical layer) 計算目前對潛在可容忍的新增干擾，並將此訊息送到網路
層(Network layer)和鄰居節點作交換。透過此資訊的交換，在路由發現時控制
路由請求封包的傳輸功率，當路由建立後，封包根據路由表的記載，選擇所對
應的路由路徑和傳輸功率。經由NS-2模擬結果顯示，我們所提出的跨網路協定
層路由協定可同時兼顧網路的吞吐量和平均點對點的延遲。
In Wireless Mesh Networks, variable transmission power levels lead to
different network connectivity and interference, and routing path
selections among different radio interfaces will also produce
different intra/inter-flow interference. These features tightly
affect the network performance. Most of the related works on routing
protocol design do not consider transmission power control and multi-
interface environment simultaneously.
We proposed a cross-layer routing protocol called M2iRi2 which
coordinates transmission power control and intra/inter-flow
interference considerations as routing metrics. Each radio interface
calculates the potential tolerable added transmission interference in
the physical layer. When the route discovery starts, the M2iRi2 will
adopt the appropriate power level to evaluate each interface quality
along paths. The simulation results demonstrate that our protocol can
電信業；顧問服務業
相關802.11s or Wireless ISP的產業
在技術的不斷提昇下，使得建置隨時隨地能無線上網的城市成為可能。而802.11s
Wireless Mesh Network就是可能的技術之一。然能有效降低營運成本與提昇服務品
質，有效的網路資源管理是相當重要的課題。本研究成果可供相關業者一個很重要的
參考依據。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蔡子傑 計畫編號：97-2221-E-004-004-MY2 
計畫名稱：無線同儕多媒體串流應用之服務品質保證跨層設計--子計畫四:無線網狀網路下考慮多功率
與 P2P 應用之跨層繞路設計 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
