 2 
 
計畫名稱  具堆疊複晶矽鍺/複晶矽通道結構之薄膜電晶體之研究 
中文關鍵字  薄膜電晶體、複晶矽鍺/複晶矽堆疊通道層、漏電流、導通電流 
英文關鍵字  thin-film transistor, polycrystalline SiGe/Si stacked channel layer, leakage current, 
on-state current 
 
中文摘要 
本計畫採用複晶矽鍺/複晶矽堆疊層來作為薄膜電晶體之通道層，藉此，可於低操作電壓
下，獲得較複晶矽電晶體較高的的導通電流且相當的關斷漏電流，又該漏電流係小於複晶
矽鍺電晶體，其利於低壓應用之薄膜電晶體積體電路，又本計畫亦對該些薄膜電晶體之厚
度效應，作一系列之討論及研究。 
 
英文摘要 
A thin-film transistor with polycrystalline SiGe/Si stacked channel layer has been proposed for 
low-voltage applications. For the stacked poly-SiGe/poly-Si channel layer, the resultant 1-m 
TFT device can achieve an on/off current ratio above 7 orders and a relatively large on-state 
current at a low operating voltage, and also cause better transfer characteristics than both the 
conventional poly-Si and poly-SiGe channel layers. As compared to the poly-Si channel layer, the 
poly-SiGe channel layer may cause a larger on-state current at a small gate bias of 3 V, due to 
smaller difference between conduction band and intrinsic level. However, even at a small drain 
bias of 3 V, the poly-SiGe channel layer leads to an off-state leakage current of about 2-order 
larger than the poly-Si channel layer, since a smaller energy bandgap may cause more carrier 
field emission via trap states. As a result, when a poly-SiGe/poly-Si stacked channel layer is 
employed, the leakage current may be suppressed to a low level as that for the poly-Si channel 
layer, and the resultant on-state current at a low gate bias voltage can be close to a relatively high 
level as that for the poly-SiGe channel layer. 
 
一、背景及目的 
In recent years, polycrystalline silicon (poly-Si) thin-film transistors (TFTs) are actively 
studied for its potential using in the static random-access memory and as the integrating 
peripheral driving circuits in high-resolution active matrix liquid crystal displays due to their 
large mobility [1-2]. However, due to the presence of defects in poly-Si TFT, some issues have to 
be resolved in comparison with the single crystalline transistors. A leakage current is increased 
with the increasing of gate and drain voltage due to the field emission via trap states in the 
depletion region near the drain. This is one of the bias-dependent issues caused by defects in 
poly-Si TFT, which cause poor switching characteristics such as low on/off current ratio. Various 
device structures and techniques have been proposed to improve the TFT performance [3]-[12]. 
On the other hand, the fabrication temperature can be lower for SiGe films than silicon layers. 
Therefore, the use of SiGe leads to a reduction of thermal budget. In addition, for a given band 
bending at an applied gate voltage, the conduction band can be more easily bended to be below 
the intrinsic energy level for a smaller energy bandgap of channel layer, due to a smaller 
difference between conduction band and intrinsic level. Hence, the incorporation of germanium 
in silicon matrix decreases the bandgap and allows a potential increase in carrier mobility [13-15]. 
 4 
fraction in the above SiGe layer is about 0.3. Then, the a-SiGe/a-Si stacked film was crystallized 
by 308 nm XeCl excimer-laser annealing at a pulse width of 30 ns and a power density of 240 
mJ/cm2. Similarly, the samples were subsequently treated by the above device fabrication process. 
Thereby, the TFT device with stacked poly-SiGe/poly-Si channel layer was implemented. Fig. 2 
shows the schematic structure of the TFT with a poly-SiGe/poly-Si stacked channel layer. As for 
the stacked channel layer, the films were melted by the annealing, and part of the Ge diffused into 
the Si region. Fig. 3 shows the Ge concentration as a function of depth for the as-deposited and 
the post-annealed samples, respectively, with a stacked SiGe (20-nm)/Si (80-nm) channel layer. 
After this laser treatment, the stacked structure still exhibits a top layer of poly-SiGe and a 
bottom layer of poly-Si, in spite that a transition layer is present in the interface region. 
 
三、結果與討論 
The poly-SiGe TFT may cause a larger leakage current than the poly-Si TFT, attributable to a 
smaller energy bandgap. Fig. 4 shows the IDS-VGS characteristic at VDS of 3 V for the TFT device 
with poly-SiGe, poly-Si, and stacked poly-SiGe/poly-Si channel layers, respectively. Since the Si 
material is with a larger bandgap than the SiGe material, the carrier field emission via trap states 
may be more suppressed due to a larger energy gap between the trap states and the carrier 
conduction band. The effect of energy bandgap on carrier field emission would generally show a 
relation as exp(Eg/kT), similar to the carrier generation in a semiconductor, where k is the 
Boltzmann constant and T is the Kelvin temperature. However, owing to a wide distribution of 
trap state energy level, the carrier field emission may show variation. In addition, in a typical 
MOSFET structure, the channel layer with a smaller energy bandgap would inherently suffer 
from device punch-through due to a smaller energy barrier. Accordingly, the poly-Si TFT device 
shows a smaller leakage current than the poly-SiGe device. 
   Though the poly-Si channel layer can lead to a smaller leakage current than the poly-SiGe 
channel layer, the on-state current is smaller at a gate bias voltage as low as 3 V. Hence, a 
poly-SiGe layer is stacked atop of a poly-Si layer to form a poly-SiGe/poly-Si stacked channel 
layer, for retaining the on-state current at low gate bias. In addition, by this scheme, the 
source/drain bulk punch-through would mainly occur within the bottom poly-Si channel region. 
Therefore, the leakage current due to carrier field emission via trap states may be dominated by 
the relatively wide-bandgap poly-Si bottom channel layer. Accordingly, as compared to the 
poly-SiGe TFT, when a poly-SiGe/poly-Si stacked channel layer is employed, the leakage current 
may be suppressed without considerable degradation of the on-state current at a low gate bias. As 
a result, while the poly-SiGe channel layer (100-nm) is replaced by a stacked poly-SiGe/poly-Si 
channel layer (20-nm poly-SiGe/80-nm poly-Si), the leakage current is reduced. 
In addition, the poly-SiGe/poly-Si stacked channel layer can achieve better transfer 
characteristics than both the poly-SiGe and the poly-Si channel layers. The subthreshold swing 
values are estimated to be about 0.72, 0.66, and 0.62 V/decade for the TFT devices with 
poly-SiGe, poly-Si, and stacked poly-SiGe/poly-Si channel layers, correspondingly. The resultant 
threshold voltage (VTH) values are about 0.4, 0.7, and 1.1 V, correspondingly. The resultant 
effective carrier mobility values are about 240, 260, and 240 cm2V-1s-1, correspondingly. 
 6 
larger off-state leakage current, ascribed to a larger SiGe channel region that dominates the 
leakage current of the stacked SiGe/Si structure. Hence, as compared to the stacked channel 
structure with 40-nm and 60-nm SiGe layers, the stacked channel structure with a 20-nm SiGe 
layer can lead to a smaller subthreshold swing, a lower leakage current, and a larger on/off 
current ratio, while achieving comparable on-state current even at a gate bias as low as 2 V. 
 
四、結論 
Formation of thin film transistors with polycrystalline SiGe/Si stacked channel layer has been 
studied for low-power applications. As compared to the poly-Si channel layer, the poly-SiGe 
channel layer may cause a larger on-state current at a small gate bias of 3 V, due to smaller 
difference between conduction band and Fermi level. However, even at a drain bias of 3 V, the 
poly-SiGe channel layer leads to a 2 orders larger off-state leakage current than the poly-Si 
channel layer, since a smaller energy bandgap may cause more carrier field emission via trap 
states. When a polycrystalline SiGe/Si stacked channel layer is employed, as a result, the leakage 
current may be suppressed to a low level as that for the poly-Si channel layer, and the on-state 
current at a low gate bias voltage can be close to a relatively high level as that for the poly-SiGe 
channel layer. By using the stacked poly-SiGe/poly-Si channel layer, the resultant 1-m 
polycrystalline TFT device can achieve an on/off current ratio above 7 orders and a large on-state 
current at a low operating voltage, and also cause better transfer characteristics than both the TFT 
devices with the poly-Si and the poly-SiGe channel layers. 
 
五、參考文獻 
[1] F. Hayashi, H. Ohkubo, T. Takahashi, S. Horiba, K. Noda, T. Uchida, T. Shimizu, N. 
Sugawara, S. Kumashiro, IEEE Int. Electron Devices Meeting Digest, San Francisco, CA, 
USA, Dec. 8-11, 1996, p. 283. 
[2] H. Oshima, S. Morozumi, IEEE Int. Electron Devices Meeting Digest, Washington, DC, 
USA, Dec. 3-6, 1989, p. 157. 
[3] J. G. Fossum, A. Ortiz-Conde, H. Shichijo, S. K. Banerjee, IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 
32 (1985) 1878. 
[4] L. Colalongo, M. Valdinoci, G. Baccarani, P. Migliorato, G. Tallarida, C. Reita, Solid-State 
Electron. 41 (1997) 626. 
[5] I. W. Wu, A. G. Lewis, T. Y. Huang, W. B. Jackson, A. Chiang, IEEE Int. Electron Devices 
Meeting Digest, San Francisco, CA, USA, Dec. 9-12, 1990, p. 867. 
[6] K. Tanaka, H. Arai, S. Kohda, IEEE Electron Device Lett. 9 (1988) 23. 
[7] Z. Meng, T. Ma, M. Wong, IEEE Int. Electron Devices Meeting Digest, Washington, DC, 
USA, Dec. 2-5, 2001, p. 755. 
[8] M. H. Juang, C. W. Huang, M. L. Wu, C. C. Hwang, J. L. Wang, D. C. Shye, S. L. Jang, 
Microelectronic Engineering 87 (2010) 620. 
[9] M. Hatano, H. Akimoto, T. Sakai, IEEE Int. Electron Devices Meeting Digest, San 
Francisco, CA, USA, Dec. 10-13, 1997, p. 523. 
[10] M. H. Juang, C. W. Chang, J. L. Wang, D. C. Shye, C. C. Hwang, S. L. Jang, Solid-State 
Electron. 54 (2010) 516. 
 8 
 
Fig. 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
七、成果自評 
   本計畫採用複晶矽鍺/複晶矽堆疊層來作為薄膜電晶體之通道層，藉此，可於低操作電
壓下，獲得較複晶矽電晶體較高的的導通電流且相當的關斷漏電流，又該漏電流係小於複
晶矽鍺電晶體，其利於低壓應用之薄膜電晶體積體電路，又本計畫亦對該些薄膜電晶體之
厚度效應，作一系列之討論及研究。 
 
本計畫成果已發表或投稿於期刊 
 
[1] M. H. Juang, et al., “Formation of polycrystalline thin-film transistors with stacked 
poly-SiGe/poly-Si channel layer for low-voltage applications”,  Thin Solid Films  2010, 
經審稿後通知修改，已於 6 月底修改後，寄回審查中。 
 
另本計劃其他研究成果，已有四篇發表於 SCI 期刊。 
 
[1] M. H. Juang, C. W. Huang,, M. L. Wu, D. C. Shye, J. L. Wang, C. C. Hwang, and S. L. Jang, 
“Formation of n-channel polycrystalline-Si thin-film transistors by using retrograde channel 
scheme with double implantation”, Microelectronics Engineering, vol. 87, pp. 620-623, 
2010. 
[2] M. H. Juang, C. W. Chang, D. C. Shye, J. L. Wang, C. C. Hwang, and S. L. Jang, 
“Formation of sub-micrometer polycrystalline-SiGe thin film transistors by using a thinned 
channel layer”, Solid State Electronics, vol. 54, pp. 303-306, 2010. 
[3] M. H. Juang, C. W. Chang, J. L. Wang, D. C. Shye, C. C. Hwang, and S. L. Jang, 
“Formation of n-channel polycrystalline-Si thin film transistors by dual source/drain 
implantation”, Solid State Electronics, vol. 54, pp. 516-519, 2010. 
[4] M. H. Juang, C. W. Chang, D. C. Shye, J. L. Wang, C. C. Hwang, and S. L. Jang, “Study of 
polycrystalline-Si thin film transistors with different channel layer thickness at low bias 
voltage”, Microelectronics Engineering, vol. 87, pp. 1896-1900, 2010. 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
本計畫採用複晶矽鍺/複晶矽堆疊層來作為薄膜電晶體之通道層，藉此，可於低操作電壓
下，獲得較複晶矽電晶體較高的的導通電流且相當的關斷漏電流，又該漏電流係小於複晶
矽鍺電晶體，其利於低壓應用之薄膜電晶體積體電路。 
