1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫期中報告
 
搜尋結果自動分群之分類架構產生技術 
Taxonomy Generation for Clustering of Web Search Results 
 
計畫編號：NSC94-2213-E-001-028 
執行期間： 94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：簡立峰 
 
中英文摘要 
Web 已是許多應用的最大最重要的
資訊來源，許多商業的搜尋引擎已經發展
出成功的搜尋檢索服務。然而這些以關鍵
詞比對為基礎的搜尋服務在瀏覽搜尋結
果(search results)時仍然存在很大缺點。通
常搜尋引擎都會依照某種排序方法，把與
查詢相關的搜尋結果以排名順序表
(ranked list)方式，讓使用者依照標題(title)
與簡短摘要(snippet)瀏覽。可惜這樣的瀏
覽方式並不是很有效率，因為符合檢索條
件的網頁往往非常多，可是搜尋引擎卻缺
少對這些相關網頁作有效組織與解釋，在
一般使用者只能有耐心瀏覽少數網頁情
形下，很多重要網頁往往被忽略。為了改
進上述缺失，搜尋結果分群(search results 
clustering)研究因此逐漸受到重視。本計
畫嘗試發展更高效率術語分群方法，進而
能組織搜尋結果中與查詢相關且有意義
的主題類別(topic clusters)，藉此分類這些
搜尋結果，提高檢索效能。本計畫內容將
包括有效利用anchor-text, 探討合適特徵
抽取與有效分群方法，高準確率術語分類
技術，以及搜尋結果重組的成效分析技術
等。本計畫預期對網路搜尋，文件資訊組
織等研究將有一定參考價值。 
 
關鍵詞：術語組織、分群技術、分類技術 
 
 
 
It is crucial in many information systems to 
organize short text segments into a 
well-formed topic hierarchy. In this paper, 
we address the problem of generating topic 
hierarchies for diverse text segments with a 
general and practical approach that uses the 
Web as an additional knowledge source. 
This work investigates the possibilities of 
using highly ranked search-result snippets 
to enrich the representation of text 
segments. A hierarchical clustering 
algorithm is then designed for creating the 
hierarchical topic structure of text segments. 
Text segments with close concepts can be 
grouped together in a cluster, and relevant 
clusters linked at the same or near levels. 
Different from traditional clustering 
algorithms, which tend to produce cluster 
hierarchies with a very unnatural shape, the 
algorithm tries to produce a more natural 
and comprehensive tree hierarchy. 
Extensive experiments were conducted on 
different domains of text segments, 
including subject terms, people names, 
paper titles, and natural language questions. 
The obtained experimental results have 
shown the potential of the proposed 
approach, which provides a basis for the 
in-depth analysis of text segments on a 
larger scale and is believed able to benefit 
many information systems 
 
Keywords: term organizing, clustering, 
categorization. 
 
2. Feature Extraction Using Snippets 
Our basic idea is to exploit the Web, the 
largest and ubiquitously accessible data 
repository in the world. Adequate contexts of a 
text segment, e.g., the neighboring sentences of 
the given text segment, can be retrieved from 
large amounts of Web pages. Such idea is 
somewhat analogous to the one of determining 
the sense of a word by means of its context 
words extracted from a predetermined 
document corpus in linguistic analysis 
[Manning and Schutze 1999]. However, there 
are differences. With a document corpus of 
limited size and domains, a conventional 
approach normally extracts all possible context 
words of the given word from the corpus. The 
situation is different when using the Web as the 
corpus. The number of matched contexts on the 
Web might be huge. A practical approach 
should only adopt certain of them that are 
considered relevant to the intended domain(s) 
of the given text segment. From this 
perspective, the proposed approach favors the 
contexts obtained from relevant pages of the 
given text segment. We found that it is 
convenient to implement our idea using the 
existent search engines. A text segment could 
be treated as a query with a certain search 
request. And its contexts are then obtained 
directly from the highly ranked search-result 
snippets, e.g., the titles and descriptions of 
search-result entries, and the texts surrounding  
the matched terms. This is analogous to the 
technique of pseudorelevance feedback used to 
improve the retrieval performance with 
expansion terms extracted from the top-ranked 
documents [Buckley et al. 1992]. Mostly, this 
scenario works fine for short text segments. 
However, for long text segments, some of them 
might be too specific to obtain exact text strings 
and effective search results directly via search 
engines; besides, the returned snippets might 
not be sufficient. For the reason, a specific 
query processing technique, named query 
relaxation, was developed to get adequate 
relevant search results for long text segments, 
through a bootstrapping process of search 
requests to search engines. 
 
3. Hierarchical Clustering 
The purpose of clustering in our approach is 
to generate a cluster hierarchy for organizing 
text segments. The hierarchical clustering 
problem has been studied extensively in the 
literature, and many different clustering 
algorithms exist. They are mainly of two major 
types: agglomerative and divisive. We have 
adopted HAC as the backbone mechanism and 
developed a new algorithm, called HAC+P, for 
our clustering problem. The algorithm consists 
of two phases: HAC-based clustering to 
construct a binary-tree cluster hierarchy and 
min-max partitioning to generate a natural and 
comprehensive multi-way-tree hierarchy 
structure from the binary one. The algorithmic 
procedure is formally shown in Figure 3. 
 
 
Fig. 3. The HAC+P algorithm. 
 
4. Experimental Results 
Table I shows the resulting F-measure values 
for clustering the 177 Yahoo! CS second-level 
category names with the 36 first-level 
categories as the target classes using various 
clustering methods and various similarity 
measure strategies. The F-measure values of 
the binary-tree hierarchies produced by the 
conventional HAC are provided as the 
upper-bound reference values for the other 
HAC variants6. HAC+P is HAC with the 
partitioning procedure, and ρ = 2 means that 
the depth of the result hierarchy was 
constrained to be at most 2. The parameter k in 
HKMeans was dynamically set as the nearest 
integer of pn, where n was the number of 
instances to be clustered at each step. Besides 
the various similarity measure strategies, a 
random clustering experiment was also 
performed with HKMeans; that is, at each step, 
each instance was randomly assigned to one of 
the k clusters. The reported F-measure score of 
random clustering is an average of twenty trials, 
