II. SYSTEM MODEL
Our work focuses on a downlink multiuser OFDM system
in a single cell environment. The multiuser OFDM system of
interest in this work is similar to that in [7] with the symbol
duration of this transmission sequence equal to Ts. Let Pij
denote the power allocated to mobile terminal i at subchannel
j. Since a mobile terminal can only occupy some of available
subchannels, the values of Pij ’s for some j ∈ {1, 2, · · · , N}
are zero.
Let h(i)(t) be the channel model for mobile terminal i and
the maximum delay induced by the wireless channel is equal
to GTs, which is the same for all mobile terminals in the
system. To simplify the analysis, we assume that the receiver
can synchronize against each path perfectly. Also, a guard
interval is used to prevent the inter-OFDM packet interference.
Let Ωi be the set of subchannels allocated by the base
station for mobile terminal i and |Ωi| be the cardinality of
Ωi. Also Ωi ∩ Ωj = φ when i 6= j for i, j ∈ {1, 2, · · · ,K},
where K is the total number of active mobile terminals in
the system. Let the input data symbol of mobile terminal i on
the nth subchannel be s(i)n . s(i)n =
√
P
(i)
n b
(i)
n if n ∈ Ωi and
s
(i)
n = 0 otherwise, where b(i)n is the data symbol on the nth
subchannel. Let the IFFT output of mobile terminal i be a(i)n
for n = 1, 2, · · · , N . Then, the transmitted sequence with a
guard interval appended for mobile terminal i is shown below
xi(t) =
∑N+G−1
n=0 aˆ
(i)
n g(t− nTs), where g(t) is only defined
between 0 ≤ t ≤ Ts with value of 1 and
aˆ(i)n =
{
a
(i)
n , 0 ≤ n ≤ N − 1,
a
(i)
n−N , N ≤ n ≤ N +G− 1.
By introducing the guard interval of the transmitted signal,
the inter-packet interference can be avoided. Then the received
signal at mobile terminal i is Y (i)(t) =
∑K
j=1 y
(i)
j (t) + n(t),
where y(i)j (t) = xj(t) ⊗ h(i)(t), which is the received signal
due to the jth mobile terminal and n(t) is background noise.
Then, the received signal is passed through a sampler with
a sampling rate equal to 1Ts , and, after FFT operation, the
SNR representation of mobile terminal i on subchannel j has
a relative simple form as
SNR
(i)
j =
E
[∣∣∣λijs(i)j ∣∣∣2]
E
[
|Nj|
2
] = λ2ijP (i)j
No
, (1)
where λij is the subchannel gain of mobile terminal i on
subchannel j and No accounts for the white noise effect after
FFT operation. Next, we will present the proposed power
control scheme and related processing tasks.
III. PROPOSED SCHEME
A. Subchannel Assignment
In downlink multiuser OFDM systems, all mobile terminals
share all subchannels at the same time. Since different mobile
terminals use different subchannels, it is desirable to select
a set of subchannels for each mobile terminal such that the
resource of the system can be utilized in a more efficient
way. First let us take a look at the channel capacity of each
individual subchannel under the additive white Gaussian noise
(AWGN) channel. Based on results in [?] and [?], the capacity
Ci of subchannel i can be characterized by
Ci ∝ log2
(
1 +
λ2iPi
Ii +N0
)
,
where λi is the channel gain, Pi is the transmission power, Ii
is the interference level from other subchannels, and N0 is the
AWGN effect of subchannel i. Suppose that Pi is fixed and that
there is no multiaccess interference from other subchannels.
Then, we have Ci ∝ log2(1 + λ2i ).
Based on the above observation, we formulate the subchan-
nel assignment problem for multiuser OFDM as
max
K∑
i=1
Q1∑
j=1
aijXij (2)
subject to∑Q1
j=1 aijXij ≥ Λmin i ∈ {1, 2, · · · ,K}∑K
i=1Xij = 1 j ∈ {1, 2, · · · , Q1}∑Q1
j=1Xij =
⌊
Q2
B
⌋
i ∈ {1, 2, · · · ,K},
(3)
where Q1 = NB , Q2 =
N
K , aij =
∑jB
n=(j−1)·B log
(
λ2in + 1
)
,
where B is the block size and Λmin can be interpreted as the
minimum total channel capacity assigned to mobile terminal
i. In this way, we can set up a minimum guaranteed channel
capacity for every mobile terminal in the system so that the
proposed scheme is fairer than that of [6] in the sense that the
requested capacity of each mobile terminal can be fulfilled.
The block size parameter B determines how complex the
problem is. The smaller B is, the harder the problem is. To
solve this problem, we first solve an unconstrained K-travelling
salesmen problem (TSP). Then, we fine-tune the solution
of the unconstrained K-TSP so that the constraint for each
mobile terminal can be satisfied. Let X(0)i = {j|X
(0)
ij = 1},
which is the set of solution for the ith mobile terminal in the
unconstrained K-TSP and will be the initial solution of the
second stage. Also, let γi(n) be the fitness function at the nth
iteration, which indicates how fit the current solution is. It is
defined as
γi
(n)
= Λmin −
Q1∑
j=1
aijX
(n)
ij .
Also, we can consider another objective function at the nth
iteration as f (n) =
∑K
i=1
∑Q1
j=1 aijX
(n)
ij . Before presenting
the algorithm, let us introduce two sets: set Ω(n)1 containing
those whose γi(n) ≤ 0 and set Ω(n)2 containing those whose
γi
(n)
> 0 at the nth iteration. The capacity constraints for
those in Ω(n)1 are met while the capacity constraints for those
in Ω(n)2 are not yet met at the nth iteration. Then, based
on results from the unconstrained K-TSP, we propose the
following algorithm to solve (2) subject to (3).
max(0, µ
(k−1)
N˜+2
+ c(k−1) · (ξth −
N˜∏
i=1
(1 +
x˜
(k−1)
i
No
)))
c(k) = a · c(k−1),
where E is a region of search, a is a number greater than 1,
D(k) is a (N˜+1)-by-(N˜+1) diagonal matrix. Since the region
of interest is closed, the above iteration can always terminate
within a finite number of iterations and find the optimal values
X˜∗, x∗, and µ¯∗ such that the minimum of J(· · ·) can be
attained at that point. Then, we can obtain X˜∗, and the optimal
SNR value for each subchannel can be found via SNR∗i =
X˜∗i
N0
,
which is bounded below by (x∗ ·N0)−1. Thus the proposed
method has the upper bound of SER performance for different
modulation scheme.
After the first stage, we have a clear idea about the SNR
value and the transmission power of each subchannel for each
mobile terminal. Based on these information, in the second
stage, we would like to find a combination of modulation
schemes of all subchannels in the system to solve the following
optimization problem:
max
K∑
i=1
∑
j∈Ωi
R
(i)
j , (6)
subject to SER(i)j ≥ SER(i),reqj , where SER(i)j is the SER
of mobile terminal i on subchannel j, SER(i),reqj is the SER
requirement of mobile terminal i at subchannel j, R(i)j is the
transmission rate of mobile terminal i at subchannel j, which
is defined as the number of bits to be transmitted each time
over subchannel j.
If SER(i)j for subchannel j of mobile terminal i, cannot meet
its corresponding requirement SER(i),reqj , this subchannel will
be disabled and the already allocated transmission power will
be re-allocated among the same mobile terminal i according
the following strategy. First let those subchannels of mobile
terminal i that cannot meet the SER requirement form a set,
denoted by Ω˜i. The strategy to deal with this situation is given
below:
max
P
(i)
j
∀j∈Ωi/Ω˜i
∑
j∈Ωi/Ω˜i
1
2
log2
(
1 +
λ2jP
(i)
j
N0
)
, (7)
subject to∑
j∈Ωi/Ω˜i
P
(i)
j =
∑
j∈Ωi
P
(i)
j and SNR
(i)
j ≥
1
x∗·N0
.
And we update Ωi via Ωi = Ωi/Ω˜i.
Then, the result of (7) is passed to the process described
in (6) until the SER requirement is met for j ∈ Ωi of
mobile terminal i, where i ∈ {1, 2, · · · ,K}. This two-stage
formulation allows us to do system-level optimization as well
as mobile-terminal-level optimization. The procedure of the
whole scheme is summarized in Fig. 1.
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
The simulated OFDM system follows the system described
in [7]. The fading effects of different paths are independent of
Collect subchannel states 
of all mobile terminal
Solve the constrained 
K-traveling Salesmen
Problem to assign 
subchannels to 
mobile terminal 
Solve min-max problem.
Find the transmission 
power of each subchannel
Selection of modulation 
scheme and symbols rate
for each mobile terminal
SER fulfillment?
Fine-tuning process
done
No
Yes
{ }ijX
{ })(ijP
{ })(ijP
{ })(ijP { })(ijR
{ }ijλ
Fig. 1. The algorithmic steps of the proposed scheme for multiuser OFDM
systems.
each other. The fading effect of each subchannel of each mo-
bile terminal is known to the base station prior to transmission.
Perfect synchronization is assumed in the simulation. Also M-
PSK is used on each allocated subchannel in this simulation.
Simulation parameters used are shown in Table I. The
total numbers of mobile terminals in the simulated system
are 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12. The numbers of subchannels of
interest are 64 and 128. For each combination, for example
(4 mobile terminals, 64 subchannels) or (8 mobile terminals,
128 subchannels), the number of realizations is 250.
In Fig. 2 (a), the performance of the OFDM-FDMA method
as described in [6] and the proposed method as given in (2)
is compared under different numbers of mobile terminals with
64 subchannels. As shown in this figure, the proposed method
can search for suitable subchannels according to different
subchannel conditions of each mobile terminal. On the other
hand, if subchannel allocation is not adaptive to subchannel
conditions of all mobile terminals, the bandwidth of the system
cannot be fully utilized. Thus, there is a performance gap
between the proposed method and the OFDM-FDMA method.
The performance is compared for 128 subchannels in Fig. 2
(b). Again, due to the lack of adaptability of OFDM-FDMA,
there exists a performance gap between these two schemes as
shown in Fig. 2 (b).
In Fig. 3 (a), the total number of allocated bits of all mobile
terminals under a different SER and a different number of
mobile terminals is given when there are 64 subchannels.
As shown in Fig. 3 (a), when the SER constraint become
stringent, the total number of allocated bits becomes small.
This is not surprising, since the available choice of modulation
schemes would be limited to M-ary PSK modulation with a
small constellation size. Thus, the number of bits that can be
sent per transmission becomes small as well. That is why the
number of allocated bits drops as the value of SER decreases.
Furthermore, the allocated bits are close when SER is equal
to 10−4 and 10−5 in Fig. 3 (a). This is due to the fact that
the best choices of modulation schemes for all subchannels in
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-005-025 
計畫名稱 無線多媒體多工正交頻率多重分割系統中動態資源分配方
法並提供多媒體所需之品質服務 
出國人員姓名 張敏寬 
服務機關及職稱 中興大學電機系助理教授 
會議時間地點 Boston, MA, USA 
會議名稱 SPIE, Optics East, Multimedia Systems and Applications IX 
發表論文題目 Anchorperson Detection for TV News Segmentation via 
Visual Features 
 
1. 參加會議經過 
 
On Oct. 3rd, 2006, I arrived in Boston, MA, USA to attend this SPIE conference with my 
colleague. The conference was held in the Boston convention center each year and 
Multimedia Systems and Applications” is one of the parts in Communication and ITCom. 
 
In our section, we presented an anchorperson detection for TV videos. In this work, we 
proposed a new approach to improve efficiency and precision of the news story 
segmentation system. The proposed scheme employs the skin color detection to roughly 
determine the probable anchor shots because anchor shots contain the face region. Then, 
we use the specific shot change detection, time constraint method and region histogram 
based on non-skin color method to exclude the report shots in order to extract the real 
anchor shots. The proposed method can significantly reduce the computational 
complexity and is efficient for TV news videos which have changeful background of 
anchorperson shots and anchorperson position variation. According to the experimental 
results, our proposed method can significantly reduce the computational complexity and 
the detection precision of TV news segmentation is really high. After segmentation, the 
TV news video can be split into many individual stories, and the summarization 
techniques can be used to obtain the highlight of each news story or achieve news 
classification for more applications. 
 
The other conference papers include “Transition logo detection for sports videos 
highlight extraction ”, which uses reliable anchorperson detection for News story 
segmentation, and  “A Comparison of Global Rule Induction and HMM Approaches on 
Extracting Story Boundaries in News Video”, which employs HMM to facilitate 
multi-modal analysis. 
 
2. 與會心得 
 
This was my first time in Boston It is great to have the opportunities to discuss the 
research with professors/researchers with a similar academic/research background. We 
exchanged ideas about what we were doing and this certainly did help in our research, 
