2/13 
may break due to some parts’ failure. In this report, a 
wireless modular snake robot is proposed to enhance the 
robustness and scalability. So the snake robot can 
disconnect the broken parts and reconfigure to a desired 
configuration. 
 
2. Related works and background knowledge 
Modular robots are a novel area of robots where the 
robots are composed with same modules with same shape 
and function. Modular robots have the potential to change 
its configuration and function to better adapt to the given 
tasks in their environments [9: Ostergaard et al. 2006]. In 
Section 2.1 and Section 2.2, the motivation of design a 
modular robot and its classification are introduced. A major 
issue in design a modular robot is attachment mechanism, 
so the connector mechanisms are illustrated in Section 2.3. 
And a survey of modular robot is discussed in Section 2.4. 
2.1 Motivation 
In the surveyed literature [9: Ostergaard et al. 2006], [10: 
Yim et al. 2002], [11 Yim et al. 2007], and [12: Murata et al. 
2007], the three key motivations for designing a modular 
robots are robustness, flexibility and low cost. Since the 
modules are the same and interchangeable, modular robots 
can replace broken modules and reconnect normal modules 
for a robust system. Modular robots show flexibility 
because they can change the shape and function to better 
suit the given tasks in their environments. And mass 
production for the same modules is potentially inexpensive 
than a specific robot. 
2.2 Classification 
Based on the morphology of the module, modular robots 
are commonly classified into two classes: lattice-type and 
chain-type [9: Ostergaard et al. 2006], [11: Yim et al. 2007]. 
As shown in Figure 2.1 (a), the lattice architecture has 
modules that are arranged and connected in some regular 
patterns, such as a simple cubic. The lattice-type is faster 
and easier for robots to change their shapes due to geometry 
arrangement and shape but probably confining the 
flexibility. As shown in Figure 2.1 (b), the chain-type 
system may have better flexibility and maneuverability, but 
it is hard to reconfigure itself because of the positioning 
problem between connectors causing by the irregular shape 
of the modules. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 2.1: The morphology of the module. (a) The lattice-type. (b) The 
chain-type. [11: Yim et al. 2007]. 
 
2.3 Connector Mechanisms 
A major issue in designing a modular robot is the 
connector mechanism, and an excellent design can provide 
not only stable connection between modules but also 
assistance for positioning problem during automatic 
connecting process. 
The existing design includes magnetic connector and 
mechanical connector. The magnetic connector composed 
of permanent magnets or electro magnets is advantageous 
to reduce the positioning error during the automatic 
connecting process. But its robustness and high power 
consuming is considerable. On the other hand, the 
mechanical connector could provide larger connecting force 
but it is hard for positioning.  
The current trend in modular robotic systems seems to 
use mechanical connector for stable connection [9: 
Ostergaard et al. 2006]. As the three generations of 
M-TRAN modular robots, the latest generation is modified 
from a magnetic connector to a mechanical connector [13: 
Kamimura et al. 2004], [25: M-TRAN III]. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 2.2: (a) The magnetic connector in M-TRAN II [13: Kamimura et 
al. 2004]. (b) The mechanical connector in M-TRAN III [25: M-TRAN 
III]. 
2.3 Survey of Modular Robots 
The published researches in modular robotic systems 
focus on the discussion to construct such system and 
control them. This section focuses on the hardware design 
of modular robots, morphology aspects, and their functions, 
and several well-known modular robots are introduced in 
the following.  
In [14: Rus et al. 2002], two lattice-type modular robots 
are exhibited and show the ability of self-reconfiguration. 
The modular robot Crystalline is a 2-D lattice-type, and 
Molecule is a 3-D lattice-type modular robot as shown in 
Figure 2.3. These two previous work show the possibility 
that a modular robot could reconfigure itself toward the 
local condition. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 2.3: (a) Molecule. (b) Crystalline [14: Rus et al. 2002].  
 
Murata and AIST (Advanced Industrial Science and 
Technology) in Japan design three generations of M-TRAN 
modular robots as shown in Figure 2.4 [15: Murata et al. 
2002], [12: Murata et al. 2007], [13: Kamimura et al. 2004]. 
The author claimed M-TRAN is a both lattice-type and 
chain-type modular robot. M-TRAN’s module is composed 
of six connecting surface with one magnetic connector and 
4/13 
is divided to a male active part and a female passive part. 
The male active connector is assembled in the back side of 
the module and controlled by the connection actuator. 
Hence, the female passive connector is set in the front side 
of the module for the male connector to connect in a chain 
type. 
Each module has its own processor to control the 
actuators and be responsible for the local tasks, and a host 
integrates all the modules and makes high-level strategies. 
In this report, the communication between modules and the 
host is realized by wireless devices, so the transmission 
wires are replaced. This could make the connecting process 
much simpler instead of reconnecting the transmission 
wires.   
 
PC Host
Module 2Module 1
PC
Interface
CPU
M
ai
n
 
Ac
tu
a
to
r
Co
n
n
e
ct
o
r 
Ac
tu
a
to
r
Wireless 
Device
Wireless 
Device
Module 3
Active male connector
Passive female connector
CPU
M
ai
n
 
Ac
tu
a
to
r
Co
n
n
e
ct
o
r 
Ac
tu
a
to
r
Wireless 
Device
CPU
M
ai
n
 
Ac
tu
a
to
r
Co
n
n
e
ct
o
r 
Ac
tu
a
to
r
Wireless 
Device
 
Figure 3.1: The system framework of the wireless modular snake robot.  
 
3.3 Module Design 
3.3.1 Main Body 
The mechanism of the module is an importance issue. 
This part has to contain the connector and all the electronics 
parts. A well-design module may guarantee accurate 
connection and smooth motion between the modules. 
In this report, the prototype of the module is developed 
as a box to contain the connector, wheels, and electronic 
parts. As shown in Figure 3.2, the lower space of the 
module is for motor and battery, and the upper supports are 
for circuit board. In addition, a couple of wheels are 
equipped in the bottom for efficient snake locomotion.  
This part is developed by using the CAD (Computer 
Aided Design) software CATIA and manufactured by the 
solid freeform fabrication technique Rapid Prototype. The 
product is shown in Figure 3.3. 
Supports for PCB
Supports for AI motor
Holes for wheels 
Supports for PCB
 
(a) 
Space for 
AI motor
Space 
for 
Battery
 
(b) 
Connector
 
(c) 
Figure 3.2: The main body of the module. (a)The front view. (b) The top 
view. (c) The bottom view. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 3.3: The implementation of the main body. (a) The front view. (b) 
The bottom view. 
3.3.1 Connector 
The relative motion between the modules can cause 
vibrations severely on the snake robot, so a stable connector 
is necessary for the modules. Hence, a mechanical and 
gendered connector is proposed in this work. The male and 
female connectors are developed by using CATIA is 
illustrated in Figure 3.4. 
 
Male connector
Connected with 
stepping motor  
 
(a) 
Female connector
 
(b) 
Figure 3.4: (a) The male connector. (b) The female connector. 
 
The states of connection are connected and disconnected 
as shown in Figure 3.5. Since the female connector is fixed, 
a rotation about 90 degrees of the male connector can 
change the connection states. The implementations of the 
connectors and their connection states are shown in Figure 
3.6. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 3.5: (a) The connected state of the connectors. (b) The disconnected 
state of the connectors. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 3.6: The products of connectors. (a) The male and the female 
connectors. (b) The connected and disconnected states of the connectors. 
6/13 
3. Instruction LED to show the states; 
4. 16 MHz oscillator as the main clock; 
5. 32.768 KHz oscillator as real clock. 
The system block diagram including all the electronic 
devices discussed in Section 3.4 is shown in Figure 3.13, 
and this diagram indicates the minimal hardware 
requirement of the module. 
 
Main CPU
PIC18F4580
Wireless 
Module
JN5139
AI-Motor
Stepping
Motor
Current 
Amplifier
Main clock 
16MHz
Timer 
32.768KHz
Power 
9Volts
Power 
5Volts
Power 
3.3Volts
Instruction 
LED
Instruction 
LED
UART
UART
I/O
An
te
nn
a
 
Figure 3.13: The block diagram of the system. 
 
The PCB as shown in Figure 3.14 is designed by the 
EDA (Electronic Design Automatic) tool Protel DXP 2004.  
 
 
(a) 
  
(b) 
Figure 3.14: (a) The printed circuit board. (b) The soldered board. 
 
3.5 Summary 
According to the design concepts and hardware 
components discussed above, the module with the 
microcontroller, wireless chip, motion actuator, connection 
actuator, and system board are shown in Figure 3.15. Note 
that the back side of the module has been modified to equip 
the connection actuator, and the two buttons are used as 
touch sensors and equipped on the male connector and 
female connector as shown in Figure 3.15. 
 
 
(a)  (b) 
Figure 3.15: The module. (a) The front view. (b) The back view. 
 
In this report, four modules are prepared and the modular 
snake robot composed of all the modules is shown in Figure 
3.16.  
 
Figure 3.16: The modular snake robot is composed of the four modules. 
 
4. Reconfiguration Planning 
For the uni-module design, the key point is to determine 
the communication role and the connected situation for all 
the same modules. The reconfiguration planning proposed 
in this report can determine the communication ID for 
wireless communication and the physical order as the 
connected situation, so the uni-module can perform its 
particular behaviors. 
4.1 Optimal Serpenoid Locomotion  
In Saito’s work [4: Saito et al. 2002], the relationship 
between the parameters of the serpenoid curve is derived 
for optimal power efficiency as shown in Figure 4.1. Hence, 
the goal of the modular snake robot is to utilize this feature 
to perform optimal serpenoid locomotion before and after 
reconfiguration. 
 
 
Figure 4.1: The relationship between β  and n under optimal locomotion 
[4: Saito et al. 2002]. 
 
Equation (4.1) is the serpenoid curve, and Figure 4.1 
shows the relationship between β  and n. Saito finds the 
relationship is close to 2 / nβ π= , that means the snake 
robot has optimal efficiency under one period locomotion. 
So the following application in the report will confine the 
parameter b to 2π . 
( ) sin( ( 1) ) , ( 1,..., 1),
where: sin( ) , , .
2
i t t i i n
b c
a
n n
φ α ω β γ
β
α β γ
= + − + = −
= = = −
 (2.1) 
Different from centralized architecture, the order i and 
the number of modules n and time variable t should also be 
planned in modular snake robot. Each module should know 
its unique physical order i as the position in curve, and total 
numbers n for phase shift in one period. Similarly, the time 
variable must be consistent in every module for 
simultaneous locomotion. 
4.2 Proposed Method  
This section discusses how to decide the 
communication ID, physical order, and procedure of 
reconfiguration.  
4.2.1 Communication ID 
The communication ID must be assigned first as the 
wireless network address between wireless modules. In 
general design, the communication ID is different from 
physical order, since the communication ID is fixed during 
the process but the physical order is changeable. 
8/13 
(c) (d) 
 
(e) 
 
(f) 
 
(g) 
 
(h) 
Figure 4.4: The example illustrates the procedures of how the three 
modules get their physical order. 
 
4.2.3 Online Checking 
When the modules are connected and start the 
locomotion, an online checking is executed cyclically. The 
host sends online checking to the all modules, and then if 
the host receives the replies from the all modules, that 
means the modules are all online and work normally. But if 
there is no reply from one or more modules, the modules 
are regarded as broken parts, and then the modular snake 
robot executes disconnection and reconfiguration.  
When the host does not receive reply from the module, 
the host will send commands to the remaining modules to 
disconnect and reset parameters i and n. In this work, the 
active connector is set in the back of the module, and 
assumes the active connector loses torque and disconnects 
the female connector when the module is broken. Hence, 
the disconnection command is mainly send to the module in 
front of the broken one to get of it, and also send to the 
module behind the broken module to update the connection 
state. 
Besides, the online checking is also interruptible to 
execute reconfiguration process even if all the modules are 
online and work normally. Then the modular snake robot 
can remove or add modules according to the tasks or 
environments. 
Figure 4.5 shows an example that a 4-link modular snake 
robot performs online checking and disconnection. When 
the modular snake robot starts locomotion, the host sends 
online checking to the all modules, and the all modules 
send replies back if they are online. As shown in Figure 4.5 
(a)-(c), this process executes cyclically when the modules 
are all online. But if the second module is broken, it cannot 
reply the online checking anymore as shown in Figure 4.5 
(d)-(e), and then the host will stop the online checking and 
update the states. As shown in Figure 4.5 (g)-(h), the host 
tell the first module to disconnect the broken module and 
change the connection state of first and third modules which 
are the neighbors of the broken module. In addition, the 
third and forth module work normally from the online 
checking, so their connection will not be changed. Since the 
disconnection changes the physical order i and numbers of 
locomotion module n, the host and the modules will reset 
these parameters for reconfiguration as shown in Figure 4.9 
(i)-(j). 
 
 
(a)  (b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
 
(f) 
 
(g) 
 
(h) 
 
(i) 
 
(j) 
Figure 4.5: By the online checking, since one of the four connected module is 
broken, the remaining module are reset for reconfiguration. 
4.2.4 Reconfiguration 
The reconfiguration is available when the modules are 
moved or added. The method is based on the asynchronous 
and directional connection between the modules as 
discussed in Section 4.2.2.  
The following is the next steps of Figure 4.5 that the 
4-link modular snake robot reconfigures to a 3-link modular 
snake robot. After removing the broken one, the fist module 
is reconnected to the two connected modules, and then the 
host updates the relative order. Hence, the three connected 
modules can obtain physical order i and numbers of 
locomotion module n to reconfigure and start the serpenoid 
locomotion again. 
 
10/13 
 
5.1.3 Hardware Setup 
The hardware setup of one module is shown in Figure 5.4, 
and PIC18F4580 microcontroller on APP001 ver2.0 can 
drive the motors on the module by the current amplifier and 
communicate with the host by JN5139 wireless chip. 
 
 
PIC18F4580
Microcontroller
Current 
Amplifier
JN5139 
Wireless Chip
Module
APP001 Ver2.0 Board
 
Figure 5.4: The hardware setup of one module. 
 
The hardware setup of the whole system is shown in 
Figure 5.5, and the host can control the four modules by 
wireless communication. 
 
 PC Host
Four modules
 
Figure 5.5: The hardware setup of the whole system. 
5.2 Experimental Results 
In this section, experimental results show the robustness 
and adaptability of the proposed modular snake robot and 
the reconfiguration planning discussed in Section 4.2. 
Firstly, experimental results are performed in Section 5.2.1 
and Section 5.2.2 to show the serpenoid locomotion and 
automatic connection, and then two cases of reconfiguration 
are presented in Section 5.2.3 and Section 5.2.4 to show the 
performance of the proposed modular snake robot. 
5.2.1 Automatic Connection 
This section shows the performance of the proposed 
automatic connection which is achieved by the connector 
discussed in Section 3.3.2 and the connection actuator 
discussed in Section 3.4.4. Besides, the sensors discussed in 
Section 3.5 can detect the touched connector and then 
actuate the connection.  
An experimental result of automatic connection is shown 
in Figure 5.6, which the two modules are ready for 
connection as shown in Figure 5.6 (a). Firstly, the two 
modules are getting close and the sensors are touched as 
shown in Figure 5.6 (b)-(c). Then the male connector is 
actuated by the sensor and rotates 90 degrees to lock the 
female connector as shown in Figure 5.6 (d)-(e). 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
Figure 5.6: The experimental result of the proposed automatic connection.  
 
5.2.2 Case I of Reconfiguration 
The following experiment in this section is realized as 
the examples discussed in Section 4.2 which the 
four-module snake robot is disconnected and reconfigured 
to the three-module snake robot by online checking. In the 
following, the experiment results show the operations and 
processes of the modules and the snapshot of the GUI on 
the PC host. 
The experiment is conducted by the four modules and the 
GUI as shown in Figure 5.7 (a). Firstly, the four modules 
are turned on and obtain there communication IDs for 
wireless communication as shown in Figure 5.7 (b). 
Secondly, the first ID module is connected to the back of 
the second ID module, and the automatic connection is 
actuated when the connectors are touched as shown in 
Figure 5.7 (c). Then the third ID module is connected to the 
back of the first ID module, and the fourth ID module is 
connected to the front of the second ID module as shown in 
Figure 5.7 (d)-(e). When the locomotion is initialized by the 
user from the host to the modules, the four connected 
modules can obtain proper physical orders and total number 
of modules, and the snake robot can perform one period 
serpenoid locomotion as shown in Figure 5.7 (f).  
During the locomotion, the second ID module is turned 
off by the user as the module is broken, and then the online 
checking can stop the locomotion and disconnect the 
second ID module for reconfiguration as shown in Figure 
5.7 (g)-(i). Note that the second ID module in the second 
order of the robot performs wrong degrees as shown in 
Figure 5.7 (g) since the module is turned off, and this 
broken module is put in the left and bottom corner of the 
experimental scene as shown in Figure 5.7 (i). As the 
example given in Section 4.2.4, the fourth ID module is 
connected to the front of the first ID module, and the three 
connected modules can obtain their physical orders to 
perform one period serpenoid curve again for 
reconfiguration as shown in Figure 5.7 (j)-(k). Note that 
when the module is turned on, directional connected, started 
locomotion, or even broken, the GUI can actually show the 
states of the modules as shown in Figure 5.7.  
This experiment mainly shows that the uni-module can 
obtain communication ID and proper physical order for 
proper serpenoid locomotion, and the online checking can 
disconnect the broken part for a robust system. Moreover, 
12/13 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
 
(f) 
 
(g) 
 
(h) 
 
(i) 
 
(j)  (k) 
 
ID=1ID=2
ID=3 ID=5
 
(l) 
 
(m) 
 
(n) 
 
(o) 
Figure 5.8: Case II of Reconfiguration.  
 
This experiment mainly shows that proposed 
reconfiguration planning can make the modules connected 
and disconnected in an arbitrary way, and the modular 
snake robot can execute reconfiguration many times. Hence, 
the modular snake robot may perform a high adaptability by 
changing its configuration according to the environments or 
tasks. 
6. Conclusion and Future Work 
In order to enhance the robustness and adaptability of the 
snake robot, the modular architecture is introduced to a 
centralized snake robot. In this report, the system 
framework of module with processor, wireless 
communication, and automatic connector is planned first 
for the hardware realization of the modular snake robot. 
Second, a reconfiguration algorithm is proposed to decide 
the parameters that the modular snake robot can perform 
optimal one-period serpenoid locomotion, especially the 
physical orders of modules which are determined by the 
asynchronous and directional connection. Finally, 
experimental results show the robustness and adaptability 
of the proposed modular snake robot. 
In this report, the proposed connector can execute 
automatic disconnection. However, without the positioning 
strategy and device, the connectors cannot perform 
automatic connection between the modules. Therefore, not 
only the positioning problem but also motion controls of the 
modules are considerable in the future work. 
 
6. 結論與未來工作 
為了增加機器蛇的強健度和適應能力，我們將模組
化的架構套入在傳統中央控制式的機器蛇上。在這篇報
告中，首先完成了包含無線傳輸和自動連結的模組硬體
實現，然後規劃了一個重組演算法，使得各模組可以得
到正確的實體順序來呈現最佳的蛇行運動。最後由實驗
結果顯示所設計的模組機器蛇的強健度和適應能力。 
本文所提出的連結器設計可以達到自動分解的功
能，但是由於缺少自動定位的策略和裝置，模組間尚不
能達到真正的自動定位連結，故在未來的研究當中，除
了模組間定位的問題外，如何控制模組達到目標的位置
亦是主要的課題。 
 
7. 計畫成果自評 
依照本計畫於上年度報告的未來規劃，本年度著重於模
組機器蛇的研究。藉由模組機器人相關文獻的探討，將
模組的設計方法和優點實現於機器蛇的多連桿架構
上。本年度主要進行模組機器蛇的硬體設計，所完成的
單一化模組具有獨立計算、無線傳輸、自動連結和偵測
連結狀態的功能。基於所設計的硬體架構，我們規劃了
可以決定各模組在蛇型連結下的實體順序的演算法，使
得機器蛇可以呈現最佳的蛇行運動，另外在運動過程中
可以自動排除故障的模組並且重新組合。最後藉由實驗
結果顯示所提出的硬體設計和演算法規劃可以達到預
期的成果。 
 
參考資料 
[1: Hirose 1993] 
S. Hirose, “Biologically Inspired Robots: Snake-Like 
Locomotors and Manipulators,” Oxford University 
Press, United States, New York, 1993. 
[3: Gray 1946] 
J. Gray, “The Mechanism of Locomotion in Snakes,” 
Journal of Experimental Biology, Vol. 23, No. 2, pp. 
101-120, Dec. 1946. 
[4: Saito et al. 2002] 
M. Saito, M. Fukaya, and T. Iwasaki, “Serpentine 
Locomotion with Robotic Snakes,” IEEE Control 
Systems Magazine, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 64-81, Feb. 
2002. 
[5: Hirose and Mori 2004] 
S. Hirose and M. Mori, “Biologically Inspired 
Snake-like Robots,” in Proceedings of the IEEE 
International Conference on Robotics and 
Biomimetics, Shenyang, China, pp. 1-7, August 22-26, 
2004. 
[9: Ostergaard et al. 2006] 
E. H. Ostergaard, K. Kassow, R. Beck and H. H. 
Lund, “Design of the ATRON Lattice-Based 
Self-Reconfigurable Robot,” Autonomous Robots, Vol. 
21, No. 2, pp. 165-183, Sep. 2006. 
[10: Yim et al. 2002] 
M. Yim, Y. Zhang, and D. Duff, “Modular Robots”, 
IEEE Spectrum, Vol. 39, No. 2, pp. 30-34, Feb. 2002. 
[11: Yim et al. 2007] 
M. Yim, W.-M. Shen, B. Salemi, D. Rus, M. Moll, H. 
Lipson, E. Klavins, and G. S .Chirikjian, “Modular 
Self-Reconfigurable Robot Systems”, IEEE Robotics 
and Automation Magazine, pp.43-52, March 2007. 
[12: Murata et al. 2007] 
S. Murata, K. Kakomura, and H. Kurokawa, “Toward 
a Scalable Modular Robotic System,” IEEE Robotics 
 
 
1
 行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
98  年 6 月 27 日 
報 告 人 
姓 名 連    豊    力 
服務機構
及 職 稱
國立臺灣大學電機工程學系 
副教授 
會議 時間 地點 
98年6月23日至6月26日 
日本京都 
本會核定
補助文號  
會 議 名 稱 
(中文) 2009 IEEE 第十一屆復健機器人國際年會 
( 英文 ) 2009 IEEE 11th International Conference on Rehabilitation 
Robotics 
發表論文題
目 
(中文)術後照護環境之多功能機械床之發展與設計 
(英文) Development of Multi-Functional Robotic Test-Bed for Post- 
Surgical Healthcare Room 
 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
二、與會心得 
 
三、考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略） 
 
四、建議 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
除此之外，本人亦分別參加了幾個不同主題之論文發表，例如：Progress Towards the 
Development of the SmartHand Transradial Prosthesis, A Proposal of a Method to Reduce 
Burden of Excretion Care Using Robot Technology, Modular Playware as a Playful Diagnosis 
Tool for Autistic Children, Supporting Narrative Understanding of Children with Autism: 
A Story Interface with Autonomous Autobiographic Agents, Safe Robot Therapy: Adaptation 
and Usability Test of a Three-Position Enabling Device for Use in Robot Mediated Physical 
Therapy of Stroke, 以及Rehabilitation Robotics in Robotics for Healthcare; a Roadmap 
Study for the European Commission等。 
參加完了會議之後，深感收獲豐富，亦同時達道了交友與交流的目地，可謂一舉數得。 
 
 
大會會場 大會會場入口 
 
大會開幕 專題演講 
 
 
5
 
二、與會心得 
 
此次為第一次參與這個復健機器人的國際會議，第一個感覺是，有許多與會人士極為殘障人
士，因此，在復健用或是輔助型機器人的研究上，應該會更加有其動機性與所發展成果的實用性。
另一點，此國際會議乃是少數以互動式研討時段為主，然後，再加上單一演講式的論文報告呈現
方式。 
在此次會議的論文課題上，有許多都是根據人類生理上或者是心理上的需求，進而研發出來
的成果，絕大部分皆是以實際的實驗成果或數據呈現。以便於說服他人該研究成果的可行性。同
時，在許多方面，復健或輔助機器人的研究需要醫生與護理人員的合作與協助。本研究團隊的論
文，乃是結合醫生與護士等具醫學背景的人員，加上與機械資訊電機等工程專家所研發出來的成
果。因次，本團隊的研究成果其可行性與應用度皆為優良，足以媲美國外之專家學者。 
然而，目前在廠商的合作上，就比較少有進展。因此，雖然我們所提出來的概念極為先進，
但是，實作的硬體成果則是覺難以超越國外團隊，這乃是我們應該要加強的部分。以期未來，除
了能夠持續有新的原理創建之外，更能有即具先進尖端的硬體呈現。 
 
三、考察參觀活動 
 
本人利用空檔時間參觀了京都地區的主要硬體建設與發展情況，同時，亦藉機辦訪了一下京
都大學，瞭解一下相關的學術活動與學生活動的概況。 
 
 
四、建議 
 
無 
 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
Proceedings of 2009 IEEE 11th International Conference on Rehabilitation Robotics 
(USB disk) 
Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 92, No 11, Nov. 2004 
Call for Papers: HRI 2010, IJ of Assistive Robotics and Systems, IEEE T on Neural 
Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering 
Rehabilitation Robotics 相關產品書面與光碟資料 
  
  
Abstract—The development of a robot assisted recovery room 
is presented for post-surgical healthcare. Robotic beds, 
multi-media environment, and multi-sensor monitoring are the 
three key components in the recovery room. The robotic beds are 
developed for posture changing and body transferring, the 
multi-media environment is employed for effectively pacifying 
the patients’ psychological condition, and multiple sensors are 
used to monitor environmental condition and patient’s 
physiological status. The recovery room is designed to provide 
safe, happy, and effective treatment and monitor patients’ 
medical status, simultaneously. The proposed room is 
experimentally tested on the breathing functionality for relaxing 
the post-surgical patients. The test result shows that the 
breathing frequency of post-surgical patients could be gradually 
affected by the bed motion frequency of the robotic bed. 
 
Index Terms— Robotic beds, multi-media environment, 
multi-sensor monitoring, post-surgical recovery 
I. INTRODUCTION 
ith technical advancement, more and more fields of 
knowledge are integrated for medical applications.  In 
recent years, robotics is one of considerable technologies to 
apply in medical treatments. Because the post-surgical 
patients are at the most vulnerable and needed moments, a 
robot-assisted recovery room can help their recovery 
physiologically and psychologically. 
According to the functionalities, medical robots can be 
generally classified into two types: rehabilitation robots and 
assistance robots. The rehabilitation robots can help the 
patients to restore their body to a normal health status. For 
example, a patient can recover the function of movement 
abilities which have been had before. In the past years, several 
rehabilitation robots for training upper limbs and lower 
extremity have been developed in [1: Kerbs et al. 1998], [2: 
Lum et al. 2002], [3: Colombo et al. 2000], [4: Riener et al. 
2005].  
On the other hand, the assistance robots can replace or 
enhance the patients’ biological functions which have been 
lost. Compared with rehabilitation robots, the assistance 
robots can not be used to recover the patients’ original ability. 
 
This work was supported in part by the National Science Council, 
Taiwan, ROC, under the grants: NSC 95-2221-E-002-303-MY3, and 
NSC96-2218-E-002-008, and DOIT/TDPA: 97-EC-17-A-04-S1-054. The 
authors are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, 10617, Taiwan, (corresponding author: Feng-Li Lian, 
phone: 886-2-3366-3606; e-mail: fengli@ntu.edu.tw). 
The assistance robots can be further classified into the 
following four cases, including prosthesis, wheelchair, 
surgical robot, and bed-assisted device.  
Prosthesis is viewed as potential devices for the disable 
and the amelia patients to replace their original functions [5: 
Saito et al. 2005]. In assisted wheelchairs, several control 
interfaces for wheelchairs are developed. For example, a 
system, called KARES II, includes the shoulder and the head 
interfaces to replace the joystick as control input of 
wheelchair [6: Min et al. 2002]. On the other hand, the voice 
interface is proposed to operate wheelchair in [7: Pancnik et al. 
2006]. Assistance robots are used to assist not only the 
patients, but also the caregivers. The surgical robots can assist 
doctors during the operation. For example, the Di Vinci 
Surgical System is one of famous commercial surgical robots 
for the minimally invasive surgery [8: Intuitive Surgical 
Corporation 2008].  
In 1984, Dr. Robert Ulrich observed the recovery of the 
post-surgical patients. His observation indicates that the 
patients have faster recovery and need less medication in the 
sickroom with natural scene [12: Ulrich 1984]. Some research 
topics are proposed on the psychological factors of the 
recovery of the post-surgical patients in psychology. These 
researches indicate that the stress to the surgical patients could 
influence the recovery progress [13: Daltroy et al. 1998].  
Furthermore, using a set of cooperative multiple sensors 
for assisting intelligent space is a popular research topic. For 
example, the PlaceLab is a home-like laboratory for studying 
the ubiquitous technologies, and used as a caring system. 
Cameras and biological sensors are used to monitor the 
situation of PlaceLab and resident’s status [15: Intille et al. 
2004]. Another example is the LiveNet system which is a 
wearable mobile platform. The system is used to detect the 
biological signals of the user and these signals can be sent to 
the caregiver for monitoring and decision purpose [16: 
Michael & Alex 2004]. 
Figure 1 illustrates the set of multi-functional robotic 
test-beds, including a sickbed and a nursing bed, studied in the 
paper. Compared with similar devices in the literature, the 
proposed bed system can perform the posture changing and 
body transferring functions simultaneously and the 
multi-functional beds can steadily transfer patient from the 
sickbed to the nursing bed, and the nursing bed can transform 
into a wheelchair. 
Development of Multi-Functional Robotic Test-Bed for Post-Surgical 
Healthcare Room 
Shih-Wei Peng, Feng-Li Lian, and Li-Chen Fu 
W 
2009 IEEE 11th International Conference on Rehabilitation Robotics
Kyoto International Conference Center, Japan, June 23-26, 2009
9781-4244-3789-4/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE 608
  
 
Figure 3: The functional flowchart of the respiratory guiding application 
 
A. Mechatronic Control of Multi-Functional Test-Beds 
The multi-functional bed system includes one sickbed and 
one nursing bed. The multi-functional sickbed is designed to 
perform posture changing and body transferring functions. 
The first function is to change the posture of the bedridden 
patients who are confined to the sickbed. The second function 
is to transfer the patient from the sickbed to the nursing bed or 
a wheelchair. The transferring function requires the patient be 
transferred from the sickbed to the nursing bed safely and then 
demands the synchronization of the actuating motors and the 
cooperation of the two beds. The snapshot of the 
multi-functional sickbed and nursing bed are shown in Figure 
4.  
 
 
Figure 4: The multi-functional sickbed (left) and the nursing bed (right) 
 
For easdfsily controlling the bedplate motion and 
interacting with the user, a graphic user interface (GUI) is also 
designed. By using one standard personal computer (PC), the 
GUI can collect the physiological data of the patient through 
bio-sensors and the motion data of the robotic beds through 
motor encoders. By analyzing these data, the GUI can further 
plan the following designated bed motions.  
The mechatronic control system is used to connect the 
hardware (multi-functional beds) and the software (GUI) for 
performing the designated functions. The mechatronic control 
system includes the DC and AC motors, and the subsystem 
receiving the commands from the GUI for performing 
low-level control (PID) and high-level control (bed motion 
functions). The motion card can communicate with the driver 
and forward the command to control motor. The motion card 
can also obtain the encoder data of the AC motors. 
The flowchart of the controlling processes for the posture 
changing and body transferring functions is shown in Figure 5. 
First, the computer is connected to the PC. Then, the patient 
can select a desired motion by operating the GUI. For posture 
changing, the robotic bed can perform sitting, leg-lifting, 
bedplate rising up and lowering down, and the respiratory 
guiding function. The rising-up or lowering-down function 
and the respiratory guiding function can be performed only 
when the bedplate surface is flat. Hence, before operating 
these two functions, the bedplates should first go back the 
home position. For body transferring, the bedplates should be 
in flat location and the height of the bedplates should be same 
as that of the nursing bed. During the body transferring, the 
controller first verifies whether the bedplates are at flat 
location. The condition of the sickbed can be checked by 
using the data from the encoders. If the bedplates are flat, then 
the height of the bedplates is next verified whether it is the 
same as that of the nursing bed. After the flatness and height 
condition are verified, the user can begin the body transferring 
function. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: The flowchart of the controlling processes 
 
B. Posture Changing and Body transferring Functions 
The operation of posture changing function is shown in 
Figure 6. In the beginning of the function, the strokes of the 
five linear actuators are pulled back to their zero position for 
calibrating the encoder. The bedplates are then driven to the 
home position where the bedplates are at flat location and the 
distance between the ground and the bedplate surface is the 
shortest as shown in Figure 6(a). After calibrating the encoder 
and going to home position, the knee is lifted firstly, and then 
the whole leg is lifted. Finally, the sitting function is 
performed as shown in Figure 6(b). On the other hand, the 
nursing bed is designed to be transformed between a small 
Bio-sensor 
Respiratory sensor 
Multi-functional 
bed 
Multi-media 
interface 
Assisted robot 
Patient 
Interaction 
User interface 
Monitor and 
control 
610
  
magnitude of respiration suddenly increases, and it shows that 
the patient begins to breathe deeply and adjust the breath for 
following the bedplate motion. Before the 100th second, the 
frequency is about 0.3 Hz. When the bedplate motion is at 
Stage 4, the frequency decreases to about 0.2 Hz at 100-160 
seconds. After the 160th second, the bedplate motion is at 
Stage 2, and then the frequency further decreases down to 
about 0.15 Hz. The result shows the patient’s respiration 
frequency can be decreased down to nine or eight times per 
minute. 
 
0 50 100 150 200
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
Time (s)
M
a
gn
itu
de
 o
f r
e
sp
ira
tio
n
The curve of respiration 
 
 
Respiration curve
 
Figure 11: The variation of the respiration frequency from the respiratory 
sensor 
 
IV. CONCLUSION 
This paper presented a robot-assisted recovery room for 
post-surgical patients. The implementation of the recovery 
environment integrated the robotic bed system, the 
multi-media content and interface, and the biological sensing. 
The robotic bed system is equipped with posture changing, 
body transferring functions for the post-surgical patients. The 
recovery room is surrounding by skylight multi-media and 
Chinese painting interface which can be used for interacting 
with the post-surgical patients. Also, several sensors are used 
for monitoring the patients’ physiological status as well as the 
environmental situation. The recovery room is tested for the 
respiratory guiding task for pacifying the post-surgical 
patients. Experimental result shows that the patient’s 
breathing frequency can be gently and smoothly controlled by 
the bedplate motion and feedback physiological signals. 
 
 
 
REFERENCES 
 [1: Kerbs et al. 1998] 
H. I. Krebs, N. Hogan, M. L. Aisen, and B. T. Volpe, “Robot-aided 
Neurorehabilitation,” IEEE Transactions on Rehabilitation 
Engineering, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 75-87, Mar. 1998. 
[2: Lum et al. 2002] 
P. S. Lum, C. G. Burgar, P. C. Shor, M. Majmundar, and M. Van der 
Loos, “Robot-assisted Movement Training Compared with 
Conventional Therapy Techniques for the Rehabilitation of Upper- 
Limb Motor Function After Stroke,” Archives of Physical Medicine 
and Rehabilitation, Vol. 83, No. 7, pp. 952-958, Jul. 2002. 
[3: Colombo et al. 2000] 
G. Colombo, M. Joerg, R. Schreier, and V. Dietz, “Tread-mill Training 
of Paraplegic Patients Using a Robotic Orthosis,” Journal of 
Rehabilitation Research and Development, Vol. 37, No. 6, pp. 
693-700, Nov./Dec. 2000. 
[4: Riener et al. 2005] 
R. Riener, L. Lunenburger, S. Jezernik, M. Anderschitz, G. Colombo, 
and V. Dietz, “Patient-cooperative Strategies for Robot-aided 
Treadmill Training: First Experimental Results,” IEEE Transactions 
on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, Vol. 13, No. 3, pp. 
380-394, Sep. 2005. 
[5: Saito et al. 2005] 
Y. Saito, A. Ogawa, H. Negoto, and K. Ohniahi, “Development of 
Intelligent Prosthetic Hand Adapted to Age and Body Shape,” in 
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Rehabilitation 
Robotics, Chicago, IL, USA, Vol. 2005, pp. 384-389, Jun. 28-Jul. 1, 
2005. 
[6: Min et al. 2002] 
J. W. Min, K. Lee, S. C. Lim, and D. S. Kwon, “Human-friendly 
Interfaces of Wheelchair Robotic System for Handicapped Persons,” 
in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Intelligent 
Robots and Systems, Lausanne, Switzerland, Vol. 2, pp. 1505-1510, 
Sep. 30-Oct. 4, 2002. 
[7: Pancnik et al. 2006] 
G. Pacnik, K. Benkic, and B. Brecko, “Voice Operated Intelligent 
Wheelchair - VOIC,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International 
Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Dubrovnik, Croatia, Vol. 3, pp. 
1221-1226, Jun. 20-23, 2005. 
[8: Intuitive Surgical Corporation 2008] 
The introduction of Intuitive Surgical Company and the data for 
visiting the website is on Feb. 9, 2008. Available: 
http://www.intuitivesurgical.com/corporate/index.aspx 
[9: Roy et al. 2005] 
B. Roy, A. Basmajian, and H. H. Asada, “Repositioning of a Rigid 
Body with a Flexible Sheet and Its Application to an Automated 
Rehabilitation Bed,” IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and 
Engineering, Vol. 2, No. 3, pp. 300-307, Jul. 2005. 
[10: Kasagami et al. 2004] 
F. Kasagami, H.B. Wang and M. Araya, “Development of Robot to 
Assist Patient Transfer,” in Proceedings of 2004 IEEE International 
Conference on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, The Hague, 
Netherlands, Vol. 5, pp. 4383-4388, Oct. 10-13, 2004. 
[11: Kasagami et al. 2005] 
F. Kasagami, H.B. Wang, S. Toshimitsu, I. Sakuma, and T. Dohi, 
“Patient Transfer Apparatus Used in Hospital,” in Proceedings of 2005 
IEEE International Conference on Networking, Sensing and Control, 
Tucson, AZ, United States, Vol. 2005, pp. 738-743, Mar. 19-22, 2005. 
[12: Ulrich 1984] 
RS. Ulrich, “View Through a Window May Influence Recovery from 
Surgery,” Science, Vol. 224, pp. 420-421, Apr. 27, 1984. 
[13: Daltroy et al. 1998] 
L. H. Daltroy, C. I. Morlino, H. M. Eaton, R. Poss, and M.H. Liang,  
“Preoperative education for total hip and knee replacement patients,” 
Arthritis Care and Research, Vol. 11, No. 6, Dece. 1998. 
[14: Osowiecki & Bruce, 1998] 
D. Osowiecki, and B. E. Compas, “Psychological adjustment to cancer: 
Control beliefs and coping in adult cancer patients,” Cognitive 
Therapy and Research‚ Vol. 22‚ No. 5‚ pp. 483-499‚ 1998. 
[15: Intille et al. 2004] 
S. S. Intille, K. Larson, J. S. Beaudin, J. Nawyn, E. Munguia Tapia, P. 
Kaushik, “A living laboratory for the design and evaluation of 
ubiquitous computing technologies,” in Extended Abstracts of the 
612
