  
European Congress on Computational Methods  
in Applied Sciences and Engineering (ECCOMAS 2012) 
J. Eberhardsteiner et.al. (eds.) 
Vienna, Austria, September 10-14, 2012 
ANALYSIS OF NONLINEAR DYNAMIC BEHAVIOR OF MICRO 
CIRCULAR PLATE ACTUATOR USING HYBRID NUMERICAL 
METHOD  
Chin-Chia Liu
†Institution of Author 
†* 
. Department of Industrial Education and Technology, National Changhua University of Education, 
Bao-Shan Campus: Number 2, Shi-Da Road, Changhua, 500, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
ccliu@cc.ncue.edu.tw 
Keywords: Micro circular plate, Pull-in voltage, MEMS, Hybrid method; 
Abstract. A hybrid differential transformation and finite difference scheme is used to analyze the 
complex nonlinear behavior of an electrostatically-actuated micro circular plate devices which is not 
easily analyzed using traditional methods such as perturbation theory or Galerkin approach method 
due to the complexity of the interactions among the electrostatic coupling effect, the residual stress 
and the nonlinear electrostatic force. The numerical results for the pull-in voltage are found to deviate 
by no more than 2.09% from the literature using various computational methods. 
Thus, the basic validity of the hybrid numerical scheme is confirmed. Moreover, the effectiveness of a 
combined DC / AC loading scheme in driving the micro circular actuator is examined. It is shown that 
the use of an AC actuating voltage in addition to the DC driving voltage provides an effective means 
of tuning the dynamic response of the micro circular plate.  
 
Chin-Chia Liu 
 3 
2.1 Governing equation of motion for micro circular plate  
In deriving the governing equation of motion for the micro circular plate shown in Fig. 1, 
the present study considers both the residual stress within the plate and the hydrostatic pres-
sure acting on its upper surface. However, for reasons of simplicity, the squeeze-film damping 
effect between the two plates is ignored. The governing equation is therefore given as [11] 
22 2 2 2
0
2 2 2 2 2
( )1 1 1
2( )r
V tw w w w wh D T
t r r r r r r r r r G w
ε
ρ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂    + + + − + =    ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ −    
,           (1) 
where 0ε , h  and G  are represent the permittivity of free space, the thickness of the micro 
circular plate, and the initial gap height between the upper and lower plates, respectively. In 
addition, ( )V t  is the voltage between the two plates, (i.e., ( ) sin( )DC ACV t V V tω= + ) , ρ  is the 
density of the micro circular plate, and w  is the transverse deflection of the micro circular 
plate at a distance r  from the center of the plate. In other words, the symmetry transverse de-
flection of micro circular plate is irrelevant to polar coordinate θ .  
 
Fig. 1. Schematic illustration showing electrostatic actuation of micro circular plate. 
Finally, rT  is the residual stress within the plate, and D  is the flexural rigidity of the plate, 
i.e., 
3
212(1 )
EhD
υ
=
−
                                                 (2) 
where υ and E  are the Poisson ratio and Young’s modulus of the upper circular plate, respec-
tively. The boundary conditions for the governing equation of motion of the micro circular 
plate for are defined as follows: 
( , )( , ) 0 at    u r tw r t r R
r
∂
= = = ±
∂
                      (3) 
where R  is the radius of the micro circular plate. (Note that Eq. (13) i assumes that the plate 
is clamped at its edges.) Finally, the initial condition is defined as: 
( ,0)( ,0) 0w rw r
t
∂
= =
∂
                                           (4) 
2.2 Dimensionless governing equation of motion for micro circular plate  
For analytical convenience, let the the transverse displacement of the micro circular plate 
w  be normalized with respect to the initial gap between the electrodes. Furthermore, let the 
radial distance position r  be normalized with respect to the radius of the micro circular plate, 
and let time t be normalized with respect to a time constant nT , where nT is defined as 
4
nT hR Dρ= . Finally, let the excitation frequency ω  be normalized by taking the product 
of ω  and the time constant nT , i.e. 
Chin-Chia Liu 
 5 
Table 2 Comparison of present analytical results and literature results for pull-in voltages of 
Model 1 micro circular plate. 
 
Analytical results Deviation 
Hybrid Method 
(H.M.) (Model 2) 
Galerkin-weighted re-
sidual technique [14]  △e (%) 
Pull-in 
Voltage (V) 94.9 96.93 2.09 
 
 
     
 
Figures 2 show the effects of the plate radius and plate thickness on the pull-in voltage of 
the micro circular plate shown in Fig. 1 given different values of the residual stress. Note that 
in the case, the Model 2 parameters apply and the plate is actuated using a DC voltage only. 
Figure 2 shows that for both values of the residual stress, the pull–in voltage reduces with an 
increasing plate radius due to the corresponding reduction in the plate rigidity. Moreover, for 
a constant circular radius, the pull-in voltage increases as the residual stress changes from a 
negative value to a positive value. 
In Fig. 3, the results show that the center-point deflection increases nonlinearly with a de-
creasing excitation frequency by Model 3 micro circular plate. It also demonstrates that the 
use of an AC actuating voltage in addition to the DC driving voltage provides an effective 
means of tuning the dynamic response of the micro-beam via an appropriate specification of 
the frequency. 
Figure 4 shows the variation of the center-point deflection of the Model 3 micro circular 
plate over time as a function of the AC voltage. The results show that as the AC voltage in-
creases, the center-point deflection of the micro circular plate also increases as a result of the 
enhanced electrostatic coupling effect. It is observed that the magnitude of the center-point 
deflection increases nonlinearly with an increasing AC voltage due to the micro circular plate 
coupling effect. Finally, it is seen that at lower values of the dimensionless time, i.e., t <300, 
the peak values of the center-point deflection are lower than the remaining peaks in the corre-
sponding profile. This is thought to be the result of an instability of the DC voltage once the 
voltage is initially applied. 
( )
Galerkin-weighted residual technique-H.M.
Δe % 100%
Galerkin-weighted residual technique
= ×
Chin-Chia Liu 
 7 
 
Fig. 4. Variation of dimensionless center-point displacement over time for different AC voltages. (Note that 
DC voltage = 2.5 V and 1ω = .). 
 
4 CONCLUSIONS 
The nonlinear dynamic behavior of an electrostatically-actuated micro circular plate has 
analyzed using a hybrid numerical scheme. The proposed scheme has been confirmed by 
comparing the predicted value of the pull-in voltage for the plate with the results presented in 
the literature. In addition, the effects of the residual stress, plate radius on the pull-in voltage 
have been systematically explored. Finally, it has been shown that the use of an AC actuating 
voltage with an appropriate magnitude and frequency in addition to the DC driving voltage 
provides an effective means of tuning the dynamic response of the micro circular plate. Over-
all, the numerical results presented in this study show that the hybrid differential transfor-
mation method and finite difference method provides an accurate and computationally-
efficient means of analyzing the nonlinear dynamic behavior of the micro circular plate struc-
tures.  
Acknowledgements 
The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support provided to this study by the Na-
tional Science Council of Taiwan under Grant Number NSC 100-2221-E-018 -035. 
  
 
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                   日期： 101 年 9 月 19 日 
一、參加會議經過 
ECCOMAS 2012 是在奧地利的首都 維也納 之 維也納大學舉行。會議自 9 月 10 日至 9 月 14 日，
共計 5 天。大會 9 日下午 1 時 30 分開始接受報到，10 日上午開始進行論文發表。論文共計約 2000 篇，
是一相當大型之國際研討會。內容包含如下主題： 
 
TO01: Artificial intelligence and expert systems  
TO02: CAD, CAM and CAE  
TO03: Computational adaptive materials systems, structures and smart materials  
TO04: Computational advances in composite machining  
TO05: Computational aero-acoustics  
TO06: Computational atomistics simulations  
TO07: Computational biomechanics  
TO08: Computational damage mechanics  
TO09: Computational dynamic failure and fracture  
計畫編號 NSC 100－2221－E－018－035－ 
計畫名稱 靜電驅動式微結構薄膜阻尼效應之動態特性研究分析 
出國人員
姓名 劉晉嘉 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立彰化師範大學 工業教育與技術
學系  
助理教授 
會議時間 
101 年 9 月 10 日
至 
101 年 9 月 14 日 
會議地點 Vienna,Austria 
會議名稱 
(中文) 第六屆 計算方法應用於科學及工程領域 研討會 (ECCOMAS 
2012) 
(英文) 6th European Congress on Computational Methods in Applied 
Sciences and Engineering (ECCOMAS 2012) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 使用混合數值方法於微致動器之非線性動態行為分析 
(英文) Analysis of Nonlinear Dynamic Behavior of Micro Circular Plate 
Actuator Using Hybrid Numerical Method 
 3
TO37: Multiple-scale physics and computation  
TO38: Numerical algorithms for bio-fluid dynamics  
TO39: Numerical algorithms for inviscid and viscous flows  
TO40: Numerical algorithms for continuum approaches (finite-volume, finite differences, etc.)  
TO41: Numerical algorithms for particle methods (lattice- Boltzmann, direct simulation Monte Carlo, etc.)  
TO42: Numerical combustion  
TO43: Numerical methods and convergence acceleration in CFD  
TO44: Numerical treatment of boundary conditions  
TO45: Parallel computing  
TO46: Particle finite element method  
TO47: Reynolds averaged Navier-Stokes (RANS) models of turbulence  
TO48: Scientific visualization, data mining and simulation data analysis techniques  
TO49: Solution adaptive grid techniques  
TO50: Uncertainty and stochastic analysis  
TO51: Uncertainty propagation methods for CFD  
TO52: Unsteady flow computation 
 
除論文發表外，大會亦安排每天都有近 10 場的專題演講，其部分專題演講之題目如下： 
1. Modelling material failure across the scales: the multiscale paradigm. 
2. Some recent developments of non-linear multi-scale strategies in structural mechanics  
3. Compensating for errors of ABAQUS, LS-DYNA, ANSYS and NASTRAN in finite strain and bifurcation 
analysis of incrementally highly orthotropic or compressible solids 
4. New methods and schemes in isogeometric analysis 
5. Adjoint methods in CFD-based optimization – gradient computation & beyond 
6. High performance model-order-reduction methods in computational multi-scale simulations of non-linear 
solids 
7. Analysis of fluid-soil-structure interaction problems with a combination of particle, discrete and finite 
element methods 
8. Scale transitions in biomechanics and production technology by means of 
model reduction 
9. Computation and physics of particle dynamics in turbulence 
10. Recent developments and perspectives in computational fluid dynamics for hydrodynamic applications 
與會專家學者來自世界各國，共計數千位。除了我本人外，來自台灣的專家學者有 8 位 - 成功大學陳
朝光教授、賴新一教授、陳寒濤教授、楊玉姿教授、蕭世文教授、陳介力教授，逢甲大學黃錦煌教授、
 5
六、其他 
(1)與會照片 
 
圖 1  與會台灣專家學者(由左至右為：黃錦煌教授、陳寒濤教授、陳介力教授、賴新一教授、翁輝竹
助理教授、陳朝光教授、劉晉嘉助理教授、楊玉姿教授、湯祥雯同學、張鈺翎同學及蕭世文教
授) 
Analysis of Nonlinear Dynamic Behavior of Micro Circular Plate Actuator 
Using Hybrid Numerical Method 
 
Chin-Chia Liu†* 
 
†Institution of Author 
. Department of Industrial Education and Technology, National Changhua University of Education, 
Bao-Shan Campus: Number 2, Shi-Da Road, Changhua, 500, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
ccliu@cc.ncue.edu.tw 
 
Key words: Micro circular plate, Pull-in voltage, MEMS, Hybrid method; 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
The dynamic behavior of micro circular plate electrostatic devices is not easily analyzed using 
traditional methods such as perturbation theory or Galerkin approach method [1] due to the 
complexity of the interactions among the electrostatic coupling effect, the residual stress and the 
nonlinear electrostatic force. Accordingly, the present study, the hybrid differential transformation 
and finite difference method is applied to analyze the dynamic behavior of a micro circular plate 
actuated by pure DC or combined DC / AC loading schemes. The analysis takes account of the axial 
residual stress within the micro circular plate and explores the dynamic response of the plate as a 
function of the magnitude of the AC driving voltage. Overall, the results show that the hybrid method 
provides an accurate and computationally-efficient means of analyzing the nonlinear dynamic 
behavior of micro circular plate actuators and other MEMS-based devices with a similar structure. 
The analysis performed in this study considers the micro circular plate shown in Fig. 1. As shown, the 
upper plate is actuated by a driving voltage ( ) sin( )DC ACV t V V tω= + , where DCV  is the DC polarization 
voltage, ACV  is the magnitude of AC voltage, and ω  is the excitation frequency. 
 
Fig. 1. Schematic illustration showing electrostatic actuation of micro circular plate. 
 
In deriving the governing equation of motion for the micro circular plate shown in Fig. 1, the 
governing equation is therefore given as  
22 3 2 2 2
0
2 2 2 2 2 2
( )1 1 1
12(1 ) 2( )r
V tw Eh w w w wh T
r r r r r rt r r r G w
ε
ρ
υ
    ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂
+ + + − + =    ∂ ∂ ∂∂ − ∂ ∂ ∂ −    
  (1) 
Dr. Chin-Chia Liu
TAIWAN
Number 2, Shi-Da Road
500 CHANGHUA
To
Yours sincerely,
Dear Dr. Chin-Chia Liu,
17/06/2021
17/06/2011
LiuLast name:
First Name: 
Date of birth:
Place of birth:
Nationality:
Gender:
Passport No.:
Authority:
Date of issue:
Date of expiry:
Chin-Chia
20/10/1973
Taiwan
Male
303191456
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Letter of Invitation
for
6th EUROPEAN CONGRESS ON COMPUTATIONAL METHODS IN APPLIED SCIENCES AND ENGINEERING
September 10-14, 2012
Vienna / Austria
we are pleased to learn that you intend to attend the 6th European Congress on Computational Methods in 
Applied Sciences and Engineering.
Thus - on behalf of the Organizing Committee - I gladly extend to you a cordial invitation to take part in 
this international meeting and share your experience with colleagues from all around the world. Leading 
personalities in your field will gather in Vienna to debate and evaluate new basic findings and studies.
Your participation in the conference programme is essential for the success of the meeting: the more 
diverse the delegates' background, the more prolific the exchange and generation of knowledge. 
Budget constraints, unfortunately, prevent us from providing any financial support to participants. 
Delegates are responsible for all costs related to the conference and visa requirements.
We look forward to welcoming you to Vienna!
Prof. Josef Eberhartsteiner         
Congress Chair Man 2012
Vienna, 09/07/2012
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：劉晉嘉 計畫編號：100-2221-E-018-035- 
計畫名稱：靜電驅動式微結構薄膜阻尼效應之動態特性研究分析 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
