 2 
Fine Frequency-Modulation Trigger Features of Midbrain Auditory Neurons Extracted by the 
Progressive Thresholding Method – A Preliminary Study 
 
T.R. Chang
1
, T.W. Chiu
2
, X. Sun
3
 and Paul W.F. Poon
4
 
1 Dept of Computer Sciences and Information Engineering, Southern Taiwan University, Tainan. 
2 Department of Biological Science and Technology, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu. 
3 Division of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China. 
4 Department of Physiology, Medical College, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. 
 
Abstract  
 
Spectro-temporal receptive fields (STRFs) are commonly used to characterize response properties of 
central auditory neurons and for visualizing ‘trigger features’. However, trigger features in STRF maps 
typically have a blurry appearance. Therefore it is unclear what details could be embedded in them. To 
investigate this, we developed a new method called ‘progressive thresholding’ to resolve fine structures in the 
STRFs, and applied the method to FM responses recorded from single units at the auditory midbrain of 
anesthetized rats. Random FM tones of a narrow frequency range (~0.5 octave) were first presented to evoked 
spike responses at the cell’s best frequency. Perispike modulating time waveforms collected (50 msec long, 
n=1,500 to 4,000 tracings) were used to generate STRF based on spike-triggered-averaging. After 
supra-threshold areas of pixel counts had been determined through a step of progressive thresholding in the 
map, those peri-spike modulating waveforms passing through each area were dejittered systematically. At 
what seemed to be an optimal threshold, multiple trigger features (up to a maximum of 4 fine bands) were 
extracted from the initially simple-looking STRF. Results show that fine FM trigger features are present in 
STRFs and that they can be resolved with the present method of analysis. 
 
Key words: inferior colliculus, FM, STRF, component trigger feature 
 
Introduction 
 
In many natural sounds, the energy pattern seldom appears constant but changes with time. Frequency 
modulation (FM) represents one of such fundamental time variances in sound energy (1). Many central 
auditory neurons develop great sensitivity to FM sounds compared with steady tones (‘FM-sensitive’ cells) 
(2-4). These neurons emerge in substantial numbers first at the level of the midbrain and more of them are 
found in the cortex (3-8). Most of these neurons discharge spikes in response to specific patterns of 
spectro-temporal energy embedded in the stimulating sounds (or for simplicity we called them ‘FM trigger 
features’). Since complex sounds like speech contain similar time-varying signals, the importance of neural 
mechanisms of FM coding is often related to the recognition of complex sounds and speech (9-12).  
 
Different approaches have been developed to determine trigger features of FM-sensitive neurons, 
typically in terms of their receptive fields or more commonly known as the ‘spectral temporal receptive field’ 
(STRF)(13,14). In spite of the differences in methodology used across laboratories to obtain STFs, the main 
 4 
was set ~30 dB supra-threshold at the BF. We first collected spike responses at a fixed carrier frequency with 
all the 3 sets of FM tones and only the one producing the maximal spike count was used for subsequent data 
analysis. Each spike dataset was a continuous recording of 2 min, and to increase sample size the dataset 
collection was repeated up to a maximum of 5 datasets for an individual unit. 
 
Electrophysiology:  
 
A computer interface (Tucker Davies Technology System II) was programmed to deliver the modulating 
waveforms while simultaneously collecting spike responses at 2 kHz (spikes pre-conditioned into 0.4 msec 
pulses). Details of the recording procedures can be found in earlier publications (e.g., (32)). During 
experiment, the animal was placed inside a sound-treated chamber (Industrial Acoustic Company) for 
free-field acoustic stimulations, and its normal body temperature was maintained with a servo-control heating 
pad. The procedure was approved by the Animal Ethics Committee, Laboratory Animal Center, NCKU. 
 
 
Fig. 1: STRFs of an FM-sensitive cell showing the successive extractions of fine trigger features through 4 
cycles of successive thresholding (from top to bottom rows, at 75% of the current peak count). Left column: 
STRFs before processing of each cycle; second column: supra-threshold areas (white) identified; third column: 
STRFs formed by the tracings passing through the supra-threshold areas before dejittering; right column: 
component STRFs after dejittering. Note (B) to (D) represent the tracings before entering the cycle of 
processing and include all tracings not used in the component STRFs from previous cycles. For this cell, 4 
component STRFs (each with n>150 tracings) are generated to be combined later into a composite map (Fig. 
3I). In this and other figures, a temperature code is used to represent pixel counts in the STRF maps (warm 
colors high, cold colors low). Spikes occur at time zero, with minus representing pre-spike time. Unit 
identifier is shown on left-upper corner, and ‘n=’ is number of peri-spike tracings used in the corresponding 
 6 
8. Starting with a new threshold value, steps 2 to 7 were repeated (increment step: 5%, up to 80%). For 
each unit, a total of 6 threshold-dependent composite STRFs were generated (Fig. 2A, B). 
 
9. Generating ‘percentage tracings vs threshold’ function’: the percentage of tracings used (y) as a function 
of the corresponding thresholds (x) was then generated (Fig. 2C). 
 
10. Determining the ‘optimal threshold’: we detected the point of abrupt drop in the function to mark the 
optimal threshold (Fig. 2C arrow). The composite STRF obtained at the threshold just prior to the abrupt 
drop was taken to represent the most likely trigger features for the cell (see elaboration later in the 
Discussion and Fig. 4). 
 
 
Fig. 2: (A), (B): Examples of composite STRFs from two cells generated at 6 different thresholds (55% to 
80% at 5% steps, from left to right columns). Note that the fine features extracted ‘evolves’ across thresholds 
from low to high, reaching an apparently most complex appearance around 75% threshold, where the number 
of trigger features is also the highest (second column from the right). (C): The relationship between 
percentage tracings used in the composite STRF maps and the threshold is depicted in bar chart for the two 
 8 
In some cases, particularly with units showing no spontaneous activity, the pre-spike modulating time 
waveforms detoured discrete areas in the map, leaving the impression of empty ‘holes’ untouched by the 
stimulus energy (Fig. 3K-L). The boundary of these holes matched well with those of the fine trigger features 
in the same cell. In other cases, these tracings aggregated in somewhat elongated shapes, appearing as warm 
patches in the STRF (Fig. 3M-O). They could reflect some weaker trigger features.  
 
Although the BFs of these cells fall within middle to low frequency ranges, similar examples though 
fewer were also found in high frequency regions (data not shown). The fact that we found more of these 
examples in the low and middle frequency ranges could be partly related to the limited dynamic range of the 
analog tone generator we used to produce the FM sound. 
 
Fig. 3: Results of progressive thresholding are shown for 5 FM-sensitive cells (each row represents a unit). 
Left column (A- E): original STRFs; middle column (F-J): composite STRFs at the optimal threshold; right 
 10 
 
The complexity of fine component features found here are consistent with other studies at the auditory 
midbrain reporting complex excitatory and inhibitory interactions and non-linear response properties (26, 
38-40). Fine trigger features appeared within a narrow frequency range (average: 0.25 octave), a finding that 
is likely related to the narrow frequency scan we had used (~0.5 octave). The spectral range of ~0.25 octave 
can be taken to reflect integration of neural activities within ‘single’ frequency lamina in the midbrain (41, 42) 
or even on individual dendrites of the FM-sensitive cells, which have large dendritic field with complex 
dendritic morphology (6). The finding of multiple fine trigger features is also in line with earlier reports on 
FM-sensitive cells, showing that in STRFs with simple-looking trigger feature, partial or component-like 
features can sometimes be observed using a different method of analysis based on jitter adjustment times (43). 
In relationship to this, multiple trigger features are found in the STRFs of some midbrain auditory neurons 
when studied with wide-range FM tones (44).  
 
The possibility nevertheless exists that the multiple fine trigger features so revealed could be artifacts. 
Firstly, despite some parameters in the method is determined in a data-driven manner (e.g., the ‘optimal 
threshold’), observed results could be distorted by inappropriate settings of parameters. The rationale of 
choosing the important parameter of optimal threshold is elaborated as follows. Figure 4 illustrates 
diagrammatically what might have happened when two hypothetical trigger features in the original STRF are 
processed at different thresholds. It is conceivable that at too low a threshold, the supra-threshold area 
(potential trigger feature) would be larger than what is occupied in the map by the true trigger feature. This 
enlarged supra-threshold area would likely result in merging two nearby trigger features into one during the 
dejitter process (particularly when they are in the same direction of modulation). Tracings unrelated to the true 
trigger features could also be included, resulting in blurred trigger features. Our results on composite STRFs 
obtained across a range of thresholds (Fig. 2A,B) provided evidence in support of such possibilities. Only at 
the optimal threshold, two trigger features of different strengths will be sliced between their peaks. This 
allows the method to separate them into two trigger features (regardless of their FM directions). At too high a 
threshold, the true trigger areas shrink, and increasingly more tracings related to the trigger feature are 
excluded, resulting in a drop in the percentage of tracings used to produce the final map. How fast and deep 
the drop on the function appears likely depends on how steep the peak of pixel count rises from the map. The 
observation that composite STRFs extracted below the optimal threshold remained relatively stable over a 
range (Fig. 2A,B) supported the above conjecture. Validity of the method would still need to be examined in 
future experiments that are designed to predict neural responses precisely in the same cell based on the fine 
trigger features, and to test the method with simulated datasets of STRF where trigger structures are 
predetermined and the ground truth known. Secondly, we could be recordings from multiple instead of single 
units. These spikes we believe most likely belonged to single units since waveforms of extracellular action 
potentials recorded with our sharp micropipettes were rather stereotyped with no evidence of close overlap in 
spike waveforms, and the spike amplitudes were invariably large (10 to 20 times of background noise level).  
 
One needs to point out that the current method made a few assumptions on the response of the cell. First, 
the trigger features are time-invariant (at least over the ~10 min of data collection), and therefore it is justified 
to combine datasets to provide enough spikes for processing. Our consistent STRFs obtained by processing 
 12 
Neurosci. 22: 567–631, 1999. 
2. Whitfield, C. and Evans, E.F. Responses of auditory cortical neurons to stimuli of changing frequency. J. 
Neurophysiol. 28: 655–672, 1965. 
3. Rees, A. and Møller, A.R. Responses of neurons in the inferior colliculus of the rat to AM and FM tones. 
Hear. Res. 10: 301-330, 1983. 
4. Heil, P., Rajan, R. and Irvine, D.R. Sensitivity of neurons in cat primary auditory cortex to tones and 
frequency-modulated stimuli. I: Effects of variation of stimulus parameters. Hear. Res. 63: 108-134, 
1992. 
5. Suga, N. Analysis of frequency-modulated and complex sounds by single auditory neurones of bats. J. 
Physiol. 198: 51-80, 1968. 
6. Poon, P.W., Chen, X. and Cheung, Y.M. Differences in FM response correlate with morphology of 
neurons in the rat inferior colliculus. Exp. Brain Res. 91: 94-104, 1992. 
7. Felsheim, C. and Ostwald, J. Responses to exponential frequency modulations in the rat inferior 
colliculus. Hear. Res. 98:137-151, 1996. 
8. Qi, Y., Casseday, J.H. and Covey, E. Response properties and location of neurons selective for sinusoidal 
frequency modulations in the inferior colliculus of the big brown bat. J. Neurophysiol. 98: 1364-1373, 
2007. 
9. Theunissen, F.E., Sen, K. and Doupe, A.J. Spectral-temporal receptive fields of nonlinear auditory 
neurons obtained using natural sounds. J. Neurosci. 20: 2315-2331, 2000. 
10. Sen, K., Theunissen, F.E. and Doupe, A.J. Feature analysis of natural sounds in the songbird auditory 
forebrain. J. Neurophysiol. 86: 1445-1458, 2001. 
11. Andoni, S. Li, N. and Pollak, G.D. Spectrotemporal receptive fields in the inferior colliculus revealing 
selectivity for spectral motion in conspecific vocalizations. J. Neurosci. 27: 4882-4893, 2007. 
12. Cohen, Y.E., Theunissen, F., Russ, B.E. and Gill, P. Acoustic features of rhesus vocalizations and their 
representation in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 97: 1470-1484, 2007. 
13. Aertsen, A.M. and Johannesma, P.I. A comparison of the spectro-temporal sensitivity of auditory neurons 
to tonal and natural stimuli. Biol. Cybern. 42: 145-156, 1981. 
14. deCharms, R.C., Blake, D.T. and Merzenich, M.M. Optimizing sound features for cortical neurons. 
Science 280: 1439-1443, 1998. 
15. Aertsen, A.M. and Johannesma, P.I. The spectro-temporal receptive field. A functional characteristic of 
auditory neurons. Biol. Cybern. 42: 133-143, 1981. 
16. Shechter, B. and Depireux, D. A. Stability of spectro-temporal tuning over several seconds in primary 
auditory cortex. Neurosci. 148: 806-814, 2007. 
17. Valentine, P.A. and Eggermont, J.J. Stimulus dependence of spectro-temporal receptive fields in cat 
primary auditory cortex. Hear. Res. 196: 119-133, 2004. 
18. Poon, P.W. and Yu, P.P. Spectro-temporal receptive fields of midbrain auditory neurons in the rat 
obtained with frequency modulated stimulation. Neurosci. Lett. 289: 9-12, 2000. 
19. Depireux, D.A., Simon, J.Z., Klein, D.J. and Shamma, S.A. Spectrotemporal response field 
characterization with dynamic ripples in ferret primary auditory cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 85: 1220-1234, 
2001. 
20. Miller, L.M., Escabí, M. A., Read, H.L. and Schreiner, C.E. Spectrotemporal receptive fields in the 
 14 
40. Nagel, K.I. and Doupe, A.J. Organizing principles of spectro-temporal encoding in the avian primary 
auditory area field L. Neuron 58: 938-955, 2008. 
41. Clopton, B.M. and Winfield, J.A. Tonotopic organization in the inferior colliculus of the rat. Brain Res. 
56: 355-368, 1973. 
42. Malmierca, M. S. The inferior colliculus: a center for convergence of ascending and descending auditory 
information. Neuroembryol. Aging 3: 215-229, 2004. 
43. Chang, T.R., Chiu, T.W., Chung, P.C. and Poon, P.W. Should spikes be treated with equal weightings in 
the generation of spectro-temporal receptive fields? J. Physiol. (Paris) 2009 (in press) 
44. Chiu, T.W. and Poon, P.W. Multiple-band trigger features of midbrain auditory neurons revealed in 
composite spectro-temporal receptive fields. Chin. J. Physiol. 50:105-12, 2007. 
45. Rauschecker, J.P. Compensatory plasticity and sensory substitution in the cerebralcortex. Trends in 
Neurosci. 18: 36-43, 1995. 
46. Wang, X., Merzenich, M.M., Beiltel, R. and Schreiner, C.E. Representation of a species-specific 
vocalization in the primary auditory cortex of the common marmoset: temporal and spectral 
characteristics. J Neurophysiol. 74: 2685-2706, 1995. 
47. Bieser A. Processing of twitter-call fundamental frequencies in insula and auditory cortex of squirrel 
monkeys. Exp. Brain Res. 122: 139-148, 1998. 
48. Nagarajan, S.S., Cheung, S.W., Bedenbaugh, P., Beitel, R.E., Schreiner, C.E. and Merzenich, M.M. 
Representation of spectral and temporal envelope of twitter vocalizations in common marmoset primary 
auditory cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 87: 1723–1737, 2002. 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張財榮 計畫編號：98-2221-E-218-039- 
計畫名稱：複雜語音之相關聲音於聽覺細胞之誘發特徵分析 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：如
數 個 計 畫 共 同 成
果、成果列為該期刊
之封面故事...等）
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 0% 
T.R. Chang, T.W. 
Chiu, X. Sun and Paul 
W.F. Poon, ＇＇Fine 
Frequency-Modulation 
Trigger Features of 
Midbrain Auditory 
Neurons Extracted by 
the Progressive 
Thresholding Method -
A Preliminary 
Study＇＇, The 
Chinese Journal of 
Physiology, Vol. 53, 
No. 6, December 2010. 
(SCI) 
國外 論文著作 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
 
