frequency-domain (PSFD) method, 3D FDTD study of 
optical properties of Raman-enhancing substrates, 
FDTD study of composite metal-dielectric-metal 
plasmonic thermal emitters with grating structure, 
and 3D FDTD study of electromagnetic properties of 
composite nano-spheres. 
英文關鍵詞： Nanophotonics, plasmonics, finite-difference time-
domain method, pseudo- spectral time-domain method, 
finite element method, optical waveguides, surface 
plasmon waveguides, subwavelength structures, optical 
wave scattering 
 
 2
Raman-enhancing substrates, FDTD study of composite metal-dielectric-metal plasmonic 
thermal emitters with grating structure, and 3D FDTD study of electromagnetic properties of 
composite nano-spheres. 
Keywords: Nanophotonics, plasmonics, finite-difference time-domain method, pseudo- 
spectral time-domain method, finite element method, optical waveguides, surface 
plasmon waveguides, subwavelength structures, optical wave scattering 
This report contains several different topics. The Introduction, Research Purposes, 
Literature Survey, and Results and Discussion for each topic may be found in the 
corresponding Appendix. 
I. 3D Multidomain Legendre Pseudospectral Time-Domain (PSTD) Method Analysis of 
 Scattering by Coupled Plasmonic Nanospheres 
A high-numerical-accuracy multidomain Legendre pseudospectral time-domain (PSTD) 
method is utilized to study the three-dimensional (3D) problem of light scattering by coupled 
metallic nanospheres and associated plasmonic resonances [1]. With the multidomain 
technique, the simulation environment is partitioned into curvilinear hexahedral subdomains 
that well match the geometrical profile and material interfaces, which is an essential treatment 
to assure numerical accuracy, in particular, in near-field calculations. Cross sections are 
accurately calculated for studying the effects of different sphere radii and spacings. 
Interactions between two silver spheres are investigated for different incident wave 
propagation directions and polarizations. Electric near fields at plasmon resonances are 
examined. Please refer to Appendix I [1] and Appendix II [2] for the detail. The report in [1] 
is for two coupled silver spheres. We have studied three-sphere system and six-sphere system 
[2]–[5]. In Fig. 1, we show the combinational spectra of maximum electric fields and 
cross-sections for both two- (a, b, and c) and three-sphere (d, e, and f) systems. In the case of 
incident wave vector kx with Ez polarization, induced Ex fields are shown to be the dominated 
field, and the peaks of the maximum electric fields are well-matched to the corresponding 
peaks of the spectra of cross-sections. Similarly, the coupled Ex fields dominate in the case of 
incident wave vector ky with Ex polarization, and the maximum Ex fields enhanced are shown 
to be stronger in the two-sphere structure than in the three-sphere one, as depicted in Figs. 1(b) 
and 1(e). It is interesting in the last polarization case that there is only one spectral peak of the 
maximum electric field for the two-sphere structure, but two peaks for the three-sphere 
structure instead, as shown in Figs. 1(c) and 1(f), respectively. That is to say, only one mode 
appears in the two-sphere case, but two resonant modes exist in the three-sphere case. 
Electric fields of the three-sphere system at the peaks of longer wavelength, 416, 539, 
and 415 nm, are depicted in Figs. 2(a), 2(b), and 2(c), respectively, for three polarizations. 
Comparatively, electric fields shown for three spheres are roughly similar to those for two 
spheres, except two apparent differences. In the case of incident wave vector kx with Ez 
polarization, Ez shown in Fig. 4(a) in Appendix I is enhanced stronger at the forefront sphere 
for two spheres, but it is enhanced stronger in the middle sphere instead for three spheres, as 
depicted in Fig. 2(a). Actually, the position of Ez field enhanced under this polarization would 
be different according to the number of spheres and resonant modes. Besides, in the case of 
incident wave vector ky with Ez polarization, Ex fields shown in Fig. 4(c) in Appendix 4 and 
Fig. 2(c) are seem to have quite different behaviors too. The Ex fields at the center gap of 
spheres in Fig. 2(c) are shown to repel, but those shown at each gap in Fig. 2(c) are shown, on 
the contrary, to attract. This is due to the symmetry of structure to the incident wave. If we 
take a look at the phases of these fields, it can be found that they have both longitudinal 
(z-axis) and transverse (x-axis) anti-symmetries.   That is to say, the up/bottom and left/right 
 4
 (a) 
 (b) 
 (c) 
Fig. 3. Electric field distributions at the peaks of extinction cross-section spectra for radius 50 nm and 
spacing 10 nm under different polarizations. (a) kx with Ez polarization. (b) ky with Ex polarization. (c) ky 
with Ez polarization. 
 
The computed cross-sections of the single cube is shown in Fig. 4(a) with kx direction 
and Ez polarization. Comparing with spectra of the single sphere, we find that the two spectra 
are quite similar, except slight spectral shift and more higher-order modes at high frequency 
region for the cube, whereas the single sphere has only two resonant modes. Considering field 
distributions at resonant peaks of the extinction cross-section, the |Ex| fields at the center 
plane at incident wavelengths 429 nm and 478 nm are shown, respectively, in Figs. 4(b) and 
4(c). By comparing with those fields of the nano-sphere; surprisingly, they have quite similar 
behaviors for both mode patterns in that six field side-lobes appear as higher modes at higher 
frequencies and four side-lobes are at the lower frequencies. Singular points can be found at 
sharp corners, where the fields are enhanced the most. 
   
 (a) (b) (c) 
Fig. 4. (a) Spectra of cross-sections for single square cube of width 100 nm. (b) |Ex| field at center-face 
at 429 nm. (c) |Ex| field at center-face at 478 nm. 
Next, we check whether the two-coupled-cube cases behave similarly to the 
coupled-sphere ones. The width of the cubes is also chosen to be 100 nm, and the spacing 
between them is 10 nm. The computed cross-sections are shown in Figs. 5 for three different 
incident direction and polarizations, which we can use to compare with those in Appendix I 
for coupled spheres with radius 50 nm and 10-nm spacing. We find that two main peaks are 
further separated for coupled cubes, and the second peak at 450 nm now has higher scattering 
but lower absorption cross-section values than the first peak at 628 nm, which implies higher 
near-field enhancement at 628-nm incident wavelength. Fig. 5(b) however shows to have 
more dissimilar spectral responses. Additional extinction peak appears at 627 nm in Fig. 5(b) 
coming from both scattering and absorption peaks, but the coupled-sphere case has no such 
behavior, which we will further discuss later. Also, resonant dip between peaks is less 
apparent at 490 nm. Finally, in the last polarization case, Fig. 5(c) shows again there is 
slightly dissimilar spectral response. Especially, coupled cubes induces more higher order 
modes at the high frequency range, which can be seen in other polarizations as well. 
 6
II. Multidomain Legendre Pseudospectral Frequency-Domain (PSFD) Method Analysis 
of Scattering by Coupled Plasmonic Nanocylinders 
    A multidomain PSFD method has been developed based on the Legendre polynomials 
and a penalty scheme for solving Maxwell's equations. The application is particularly aimed 
at electromagnetic wave scattering problems in plasmonics with the goal of obtaining 
high-accuracy near fields. Calculation of light scattering by a silver circular cylinder has 
demonstrated that this PSFD method indeed provides high-order accuracy with the obtained 
field error down to 10-9 referring to 1-V/m incident electric field strength, thanks to the 
spectral convergence property of the spectral method and the accurate fulfillment of the field 
continuity conditions across the material interfaces provided by the multidomain approach as 
well as global interpolation by Legendre polynomials. In the multidomain approach, the 
whole computational domain is properly partitioned into curvilinear sub-domains fitting the 
generally curved material-interface shapes. With this demonstrated extremely high numerical 
accuracy, the formulated method should be useful for plasmonics research and can provide 
reliable results for the calculation of field enhancement near metal surface, as shown in the 
numerical examples including coupled plasmonic cylinders of either circular or square shape. 
Our analysis results also provide a good reference for other numerical methods to compare 
with. Moreover, the frequency-domain approach has the advantage of directly using a given 
complex dielectric constant of the material in the calculation with no need of implementing a 
dispersive material model like in the time-domain approach. Please refer to Appendix III [6] 
for the detail. 
III. 3D FDTD Study of Extraordinary Optical Transmission through 2D Hole Array 
Perforated on a Metallic Film 
The phenomenon of extraordinary transmission through periodically arranged 
sub-wavelength holes in metal films has attracted considerable interest during past decades. 
The main mechanisms responsible for this phenomenon have been widely believed to be the 
excitation of surface plasmon polaritons (SPPs) and Wood’s anomalies (WAs) set up by 
periodically arranged holes. In addition, it has been shown that the shape of the aperture has a 
strong effect on the transmission spectra. In this work, we study the optical properties of three 
similar but differently shaped apertures, which are basically composed of two horizontal slits, 
named x-arm slits, and one vertical slit, named y-arm slit. The difference between them lies in 
the horizontal position of the y-arm silt, which is shifted from the alignment with the left of 
the two x-arm silts to one forth length and finally to the middle. The experimental observation 
of such structures has been reported by Prof. Si-Chen Lee’ group. Prof. Lee’s group has been 
working on experimental investigation of such phenomena in the far-infrared wavelength 
regime. By exploiting our in-house 3D finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) program, we 
were able to investigate the underlying physical mechanisms related to the measured results. 
In particular, we simulated transmission spectra and near-field distributions at several 
particular wavelengths to gain more understanding of the physical characteristics of the 
resonant modes [7], [8]. Please refer to Appendix IV [7] for more detail. 
For more complex-shaped apertures, the shape resonance (SR) paths may have some 
ambiguities to be estimated by the modified cutoff wavelengths of the rectangular waveguide 
(i.e., λres = 2neffLres/m, where 2)( 22 airsubstrateeff nnn +=  is the effective refractive index, Lres is the 
resonant length, and m is an integer) due to the small difference of the Lres between those 
possible contours. In our work related to Appendix IV, we found that analyzing the near-field 
features is helpful in distinguishing the SR modes. For example, the modulus of the electric 
field, |E|, defined by 222 |||||| zyx EEE ++ , contours clear geometry of the resonant length. 
 8
μm also demonstrate a good correspondence for the y-arm slit resonance. 
 
        (a) 
 
                     (b) 
Fig. 7. (a) Top view and structural parameters of samples 1–5. (b) The unit cell and the near-field plane cut in 
our simulation. The in-plane cut is along the silicon substrate side right after the back surface of thin metal film 
perforated with 2D hole arrays. 
20 40 60 80 100 120 140
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
Wavelength (μm)
Tr
an
sm
is
si
on
 
 
王
工
十
土
T
 
Fig. 8. Transmission spectra with an x-polarized light under normal incidence. 
    Moreover, for samples 4 and 5, φEz does not need to be with even symmetry with respect 
to Cy, so the limitation for the SR path to across the second x-arm slit no longer exists. The 
small green U-shaped path and the blue L-shaped path indicated in Fig. 7(a) are possible for 
sample 4. Since the U-shaped one is longer than the L-shaped in our designed parameters, the 
peak at 83 μm for sample 4 is corresponding to the U-shaped resonance and the peak at 65 nm 
for sample 5 is referring to the L-shaped resonance. Please refer to Appendix V [9], [10], and 
[11] for more detail. 
IV. 3D PSTD Study of Extraordinary Optical Transmission through 2D Hole Array 
Perforated on a Metallic Film 
    We have also used our 3D PSTD program [1] to simulate transmission spectra through 
2D hole array perforated on a metallic film for various hole shapes. We in particular present 
(±1, 0) (±2, 0) 
 10
         
Fig. 11. Fig. 4(b) in [6] for comparison with Fig. 5 
 
V. Analysis of Modes on the Metal Stripe Plasmonic Waveguide Using the 
Pseudospectral Frequency-Domain (PSFD) Method 
For the future generation of photonics chip, plasmonic waveguides manufactured in 
nanometer size and related devices could play an important role and such new technology has 
emerged in recent development. The principle of the plasmonic waveguide is based on the 
subject called surface plasmon polaritons (SPPs) which are one kind of electromagnetic 
waves occurring particularly at metal/dielectric interface and manipulating infrared or visible 
light. Due to the feature of good confinement on the surface, it has great prospective to be a 
new type of waveguiding which could achieve power delivery by a tiny structure (tens of 
nanometers). One such waveguide is the finite-width metal stripe for obtaining long-range SP 
modes [14], [15]. The guiding modes supported by the stripe waveguide were classified into 
bound modes and leaky modes. We have earlier employed a finite-element 
imaginary-distance beam propagation method (FE-ID-BPM) to solve the bound and leaky 
modes on the stripe waveguide [16]. To more accurately analyze such structure, in particular 
to obtain high-accuracy leakage values, we employ our developed high-accuracy PSFD mode 
solver [17] incorporated with stretched coordinate perfectly matched layers to do detailed 
calculation. The cross-section of the waveguide is depicted in Fig. 12, where dielectric 1 is 
air, dielectric 2 is silica, the metal stripe is silver with thickness 55 nm, and the operating 
wavelength is taken to be 800 nm. The calculated normalized propagation constant and 
attenuation constant versus the stripe width, W, for the leaky mode are shown in Figs. 13(a) 
and 13(b), respectively, and the corresponding reported results from [14] are given in Figs. 
13(c) and 13(d) for comparison. The |E| and |H| profiles of the leaky mode for the stripe width 
W = 3.5 μm are shown in Figs. 14(a) and 14(b) which reveal reasonable leaky field patterns 
below the stripe. 
           
Fig. 12. Cross-section and the computational domain of the metal stripe waveguide. 
 12
However, the reason that causes the higher-contrast image for transparent Ag-NP/AAO 
substrate is not clear. In this research, we use our 3D FDTD method program to simulate 
transmittance, total scattering cross section (TSCS), and radar cross section (RCS) for AAO 
substrate, Ag-NP/AAO substrate, and those with a bacterium above these two substrates. The 
transmittance shows a good correspondence to the experimental result with a LSPR dip near 
400 nm – 600 nm.  By analyzing the RCS, we found that within the range of LSPR, the 
existence of a bacterium among the Ag-NP/AAO substrate causes more light to be scattered 
around the edge of the bacterium and less light to be reflected, which may be due to the 
sensitivity of LSPRs to their environment and the geometry of the bacterium. Besides, the 
Ag-NP array acts as an antenna array amplifying those non-evanescent signals to transmit to 
the far field.  Therefore, we can obtain a high-contrast image for the bacteria within the 
Ag-NP/AAO substrate [18]–[20]. Please refer to Appendix VI [18] for more detail. 
VII. FDTD Study of Composite Metal-Dielectric-Metal Plasmonic Thermal Emitters 
with Grating Structure 
Thermal emitting devices with high emitting efficiency and narrow-band spectrum can 
be used as IR sources. One of the popular structures for this application is the 
metal-dielectric-metal (MDM) system with 1D metallic gratings on the top layer, which 
supports localized surface plasmon (LSP) modes [21]. In this research, we analyze a more 
complex structure with double inversely-stacked MDMs formed by adding a SiO2 layer and a 
homogeneous Au film on the top of the grating [22]. Besides, to achieve high emittance, the 
effect of randomly-distributed gold nanoparticles (Au-NPs) formed above a basic MDM 
structure is also investigated. Please refer to Appendix VII [23] for more detail. 
VIII. 3D FDTD Study of Electromagnetic Properties of Composite Nano-Spheres 
Recently, Alu and Engheta [24] proposed the design of a composite resonant 
nanoparticle whose electromagnetic response may be tuned from an ideal electric conductor 
to an ideal magnetic conductor. One interesting application is to use collections of such 
nanoparticles to realize perfect electric or magnetic metasurfaces (PEC or PMC surfaces). In 
this research, we use the 3D FDTD method program to calculate the electric potential 
distributions around the composite nano-spheres. The composite nano-sphere is composed of 
two hemispheres which are made of different materials in a parallel or serial matter. The 
results are compared with those quasi-static approximated closed-form solutions in [24]. As 
shown in Fig. 15, the composite sphere is with radius a, surrounded by free space, and made 
of materials with relative permittivities εleft and εright. Fig. 15 in fact depicts the 2D xz cross- 
                    
                         (a)                                  (b) 
Fig. 15. (a) Serial combination of two hemispheres. (b) Parallel combination of two hemispheres. 
 14
 
                          (a)                                (b) 
Fig. 17. (a) The closed-form solution for the electric potential distribution in the xz cross-section of the serial 
combination case of Fig. 15(b) from solving the boundary value problem with a quasi-static approximation. (b) 
The corresponding result obtained using the FDTD method. 
eld is tangential to it. However, again, the internal (R < a) potential distribution is very 
peculiar in that it sustains a pair of singularities at the origin, which represent there have two 
virtual sources at the center, revealing the resonant features of the composite particle. The 
FDTD result in Fig. 17(b) shows that most of the near-field potential distributions outside the 
sphere have successfully been predicted by the closed-form solution depicted in Fig. 4.17(a) 
despite the virtual sources now move from the center toward the edge. Most of the 
equipotential lines are tangential to the surface of the nano-sphere and the electric field is 
orthogonal to it, showing that this nanostructure acts like a PMC around the nanostructure. 
References 
[1] S. Y. Chung, C. Y. Wang, C. H. Teng, C. P. Chen, and H. C. Chang, “Numerical Investigation of Light 
Scattering by Coupled Plasmonic Nanospheres Using a High-Accuracy Multidomain Legendre 
Pseudospectral Time-Domain Method,” in XXXth General Assembly and Scientific Symposium of 
International Union of Radio Science (URSI-GASS 2011) Proceedings (CD-ROM), paper DP3.4 (4 pages), 
Istanbul, Turkey, August 13–20, 2011. 
[2]  H. C. Chang, S. Y. Chung, C. Y. Wang, C. H. Teng, J. K. Wang, and C. P. Chen, “Investigation of 
Nanoelectromagnetics Problems Using the Multidomain Legendre Pseudospectral Time-Domain Method,” 
in Proceedings of 2012 IEEE International Workshop on Electromagnetics: Applications and Student 
Innovation Competition (iWEM2012), paper ID 2011 (2 pages), Chengdu, China, August 6–9, 2012. 
(invited paper) 
[3]  H. C. Chang, S. Y. Chung, C. Y. Wang, C. H. Teng, J. K. Wang, and C. P. Chen, “Applications of the 
Multidomain Legendre Pseudospectral Time-Domain Method to Plasmonics Problems,” in Proceedings of 
IEEE 2nd International Symposium on Next-Generation Electronics (ISNE 2013), paper OC-M-I-(1)-1, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan, R.O.C., February 25–26, 2013. (invited paper) 
[4]  S. Y. Chung, C. Y. Wang, C. H. Teng, J. K. Wang, C. P. Chen, and H. C. Chang, “Numerical Modeling of 
Nanophotonics and Plasmonics Problems Using the Multidomain Legendre Pseudospectral Time-Domain 
Method,” in Proceedings of the 10th Chinese Optoelectronics Conference, p. 104, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C., May 16–17, 2013. (invited paper) 
[5]  H. C. Chang, S. Y. Chung, C. Y. Wang, B. Y. Lin, S. F. Chiang, C. H. Teng, J. K. Wang, and C. P. Chen, 
“Numerical Modeling of Nanophotonics and Plasmonics Problems Using the Time-Domain and 
Frequency-Domain Multidomain Legendre Pseudospectral Methods,” in Program Book of the 2013 (13rd) 
Conference on Computational Mathematics and Annual Meeting of TWSIAM, p. 13, Providence University, 
Taichung, Taiwan, R.O.C., June 1–2, 2013. (invited paper) 
[6]  C. Y. Wang, S. Y. Chung, C. H. Teng, J. K. Wang, C. P. Chen, and H. C. Chang, “A High-Accuracy 
Multidomain Legendre Pseudospectral Frequency-Domain Method with Penalty Scheme for Solving 
Scattering and Coupling Problems of Nano-Cylinders,” IEEE/OSA Journal of Lightwave Technology, Vol. 
31, No. 5, pp. 768–778, March 1, 2013. 
 16
National Central University, Chungli, Taiwan, R.O.C., December 5–7, 2013. 
[24] A. Alu and N. Engheta, “Optical nanoswitch: an engineered plasmonic nanoparticle with extreme 
parameters and giant anisotropy,” New J. Phys., vol. 11, 013026, 2009. 
 
 
scheme is utilized to handle boundary conditions between adjacent subdomains. Also, each subdomain has its own 
collocation grid points which are defined by the Legendre-Gauss-Lobatto quadrature (LGL) grid points. Based on these 
distinct collocation points, a set of global degree-N Lagrange interpolation polynomials can be further established to 
approximate a function and its spatial derivatives. And the temporal derivatives (time-marching) are managed by the 
fourth-order Runge-Kutta scheme [4]. 
          
                                                     (a)                                                            (b) 
Fig. 1. The mesh division, subdomains, and coordinates for (a) the one-sphere problem and (b) the two-sphere 
structure. 
 
 Dispersive characteristic of the metal at the visible light frequency range is approximated in this paper by the 
Drude-Lorentz model, with its relative permittivity as the function of the angular frequency formulated as 
                                  
2 22 2
2 2 2
1 1
( )
 
.d Ln LnD L
n nd Ln Lni i
ω ε ωε ω ε ε ε ω ω γ ω ω ω γ∞= =
Δ= + = − −+ − +∑ ∑                                 (1)                       
Curve-fitting is generally used to find out suitable values for the parameters in Eq. (1) that could properly match the 
experimentally measured dielectric constant of the real metal [5]. We exploit the genetic algorithm (GA) and choose a 
proper curve-fit of these parameters for silver, obtaining ε∞ = 1.0, dω = 1.3877 × 1016 rad/s, dγ = 1.87 × 1013 rad/s, 
1LεΔ = 0.089, 1Lω = 3.254 × 1015 rad/s, 1Lγ = 1.165 × 1015 rad/s, 2LεΔ = 2.066, 2Lω = 7.758 × 1015 rad/s, and 2Lγ = 3.46 × 
1014 rad/s, which provide well fit in the optical wavelength range from 350 nm to 1100 nm. 
 
3. Numerical Results 
 
First, the cross sections of a single silver sphere are computed by the PSTD method. The Drude-Lorentz model 
with parameters listed in the last paragraph for silver is used. The calculated extinction cross sections for three different 
radii, 25 nm, 50 nm, and 100 nm, are compared, respectively, with the analytic Mie theory results [1], as shown in Fig. 
2(a). With the maximum values of the Mie theory normalized to 1.0, the maximum absolute errors corresponding to 
these three radii are found to be 0.012, 0.002, and 0.006, respectively, for grid resolution N = 12 (i.e., N + 1 points for 
each direction of the subdomain). These errors can be improved by increasing N. We also compute the corresponding 
extinction cross sections for the same silver spheres but each coated with a 10-nm thickness dielectric  shell  of  relative 
 
        
(a)                                                           (b) 
Fig. 2. (a) PSTD calculated and analytical (Mie theory) extinction cross sections for three silver spheres with 
different radii, 100 nm, 50 nm, and 25 nm, for pure silver spheres. (b) Same as (b) but for silver spheres coated 
with 10-nm thickness dielectric shell of ε = 3. 
main spectral peak at λ = 375 nm. Note that although both the first and third cases are with perpendicular incident 
polarization against the sphere arrangement, much stronger coupling occurs in the first case, due to that the two spheres 
are placed symmetrically with respect to the direction of wave incidence in the third case so that Ex = 0 at the center of 
the gap. 
 
4. Conclusion 
 
 Plasmon resonance and near field interaction between silver nanospheres and the incident light wave have been 
analyzed in this paper by the multidomain Legendre PSTD method. Cross-section computations of two coupled spheres 
with various spacings and radii are conducted for different normally incident wave propagation directions and 
polarizations. The dependences of plasmon resonance and field enhancement on the sphere radius, the spacing between 
the spheres, and the wave polarization with respect to the sphere alignment are examined and discussed. The excellent 
agreement of our numerical results with those using analytical approaches [1, 3] is presented, which demonstrates the 
PSTD method is a useful tool for simulating plasmonic problems with high-accuracy. 
 
Acknowledgments 
 
 This work was supported in part by the National Science Council of the Republic of China under grants NSC98-
2628-M-002-009 and NSC98-2221-E-002-025-MY2. The authors would like to thank the National Center for High-
Performance Computing in Hsinchu, Taiwan, and the Academia Sinica Computing Center in Taipei, Taiwan, for 
providing useful computing resources. 
 
References 
 
1. C. F. Bohren and D. R. Huffman, Absorption and Scattering by Small Particles, Wiley, New York, 1983.  
 
2. M. Moskovits, “Surface-Enhanced Spectroscopy,” Rev. Mod. Phys., 57, July 1985, pp. 783–826. 
 
3. R. L. Chern, X. X. Liu, and C. C. Chang, “Particle Plasmons of Metal Nanospheres: Application of Multiple 
Scattering Approach,” Phys. Rev. E, 76, 2007, pp. 016609-1–06609-9. 
 
4. C. H. Teng, B. Y. Lin, H. C. Chang, H. C. Hsu, C. N. Lin, and K. A. Feng, “A Legendre Pseudospectral Penalty 
Scheme for Solving Time-Domain Maxwell’s Equations,” J. Sci. Comput., 36, September 2008, pp. 351–390. 
 
5. P. B. Johnson and R. W. Christy, “Optical Constants of the Noble Metals,” Phys. Rev. B., 6, December 1972, pp. 
4370–4379. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1: The mesh division, subdomains, and coordinates for the one-sphere 
case. 
   
                (a)                                     (b)                                    (c) 
Fig. 2: |Ex| profiles at respective peak wavelengths of extinction cross-section 
spectra for sphere radius 50 nm and spacing 10 nm under (a) kx with Ez 
polarization, (b) ky with Ex polarization, and (c) ky with Ez polarization. 
     
          (a)                                  (b)                                        (c) 
Fig. 3: (a) The unit-cell structure and (b) the designed subdomain division for 
the 2D array of dumbbell-shaped apertures perforated on a silver film. (c) 
PSTD simulated transmission spectra for three indexes for the material filling 
the apertures. 
 
3. LIGHT SCATTERING BY PLASMONIC NANOSHERES 
 
Using the PSTD method, we have simulated the 
electromagnetic-field profiles for scattering by a chain (along 
the x-direction) of different numbers of silver nanospheres by 
incident plane waves of different propagation directions (kx, ky, 
or kz) and polarizations (Ex or Ez). For the one-sphere and 
two-sphere cases, PSTD results have been found to agree very 
well with the analytical Mie theory and the multiple scattering 
method, respectively. For more number of spheres, the 
analytical formulation would become more involved, and 
numerical models such as the PSTD one become more useful. 
Fig. 2 shows one example of the PSTD calculation, where |Ex| 
profiles are illustrated for three different wave-
propagation/polarization situations at respective peak 
wavelengths of calculated extinction cross-section spectra. 
Strong electric fields in or around the spacing gaps are 
phenomena of particular interest. 
 
4. ENHANCED LIGHT TRANSMISSION SIMULATION 
 
The phenomenon of extraordinary transmission through 
periodically arranged sub-wavelength apertures in a metal 
film has attracted considerable interest in plasmonics research. 
Here we consider one interesting case of 2D array of 
dumbbell-shaped apertures [6], with the unit cell as shown in 
Fig. 3(a), for which the electric-field enhancement at the 
aperture apexes offers an application of sensing the refractive-
index change in the aperture. We had experience in designing 
subdomain division for analyzing dumbbell-shaped fiber 
waveguide with high accuracy using a pseudospectral 
frequency-domain waveguide mode solver [7]. And similar 
design is easily obtained here for the subdomain division in 
the aperture, as shown in Fig. 3(b). With the following 
parameters in the 100-nm-thick silver film: square-array 
periodicity of 425 nm, dumbbell width of 220 nm, half-
dumbbell diameter of 112.5 nm, glass substrate of index 1.5, 
and indexes 1.0, 1.05, and 1.1 for the material filling the 
apertures [6], the PSTD simulated transmission spectra for y-
polarized normally incident wave are presented in Fig. 3(c).   
 
5. CONCLUSION 
 
The multidomain Legendre PSTD method is demonstrated to 
be a useful tool for simulating nanoelectromagnetics 
problems with high accuracy. Two examples in plasmonics 
are presented: light scattering by multiple silver nanospheres 
and light transmission through periodically arranged sub-
wavelength dumbbell-shaped apertures in a silver film. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
This work was supported in part by the National Science 
Council of the Republic of China under grants NSC100-2628-
M-002-008 and NSC100-2221-E-002-182-MY2. The authors 
would like to thank the National Center for High-Performance 
Computing in Hsinchu, Taiwan, and the Academia Sinica 
Computing Center in Taipei, Taiwan, for providing useful 
computing resources. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] P. N. Prasad, Nanophotonics, John Wiley & Sons, 
Hoboken, NJ, 2004. 
[2] S. A. Maier, Plasmonics: Fundamentals and Applications, 
Springer, New York, 2007. 
[3] M. Moskovits, “Surface-enhanced spectroscopy,” Rev. 
Mod. Phys., vol. 57,  pp. 783–826, July 1985. 
[4] C. H. Teng, B. Y. Lin, H. C. Chang, H. C. Hsu, C. N. Lin, 
and K. A. Feng, “A Legendre pseudospectral penalty 
scheme for solving time-domain Maxwell’s equations,” J. 
Sci. Comput., vol. 36, pp. 351–390, September 2008. 
[5] S. Y. Chung, C. Y. Wang, C. H. Teng, C. P. Chen, and H. 
C. Chang, “Simulations of dielectric and plasmonic 
waveguide-coupled ring resonators using the Legendre 
pseudospectral time-domain method,” J. Lightwave 
Technol., vol. 30, pp. 1733–1742, June 1, 2012. 
[6] S. Iyer, S. Popov, and A. T. Friberg, “Impact of apexes 
on the resonance shift in double hole nanocavities,” Opt. 
Express, vol. 18, pp. 193–203, January 2010. 
[7] P. J. Chiang, C. L. Wu, C. H. Teng, C. S. Yang, and H. C. 
Chang, “Full-vectorial optical waveguide mode solvers 
using multidomain pseudospectral frequency-domain 
(PSFD) formulations,” IEEE J. Quantum Electron., vol. 
44, pp. 56–66, January 2008. 
WANG et al.: HIGH-ACCURACY MULTIDOMAIN LEGENDRE PSFD METHOD WITH PENALTY SCHEME 769
are incorporated into the PSFD formulation to absorb out-
ward propagating waves and effectively reduce reflection of
out-going waves. The multidomain approach is employed, as
in [23], with which the computational domain with the PMLs is
divided into suitable number of subdomains, with the material
interfaces fitting the sides of some subdomains, so that the field
continuity conditions can be accurately fulfilled. The equations
approximating the physical processes of the corresponding sub-
domains are finally packed into a linear matrix equation which
can be easily solved by iterative algorithms. Using the PSFD
method, we will show that numerical accuracy on the order
of can be achieved in the scattered-field calculation of a
circular metallic cylinder, as compared with known analytical
results provided in [27], [28]. More importantly, this PSFD
method provides exponentially convergent rate in numerical
accuracy with respect to grid resolution, which implies its effi-
ciency in that few grid points added can exponentially increase
computation accuracy. We believe this method can provide
high-accuracy results in the analysis of electromagnetic field
characteristics of plasmonic problems including the important
ones of coupled cylinder structures.
The finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method [9] has
been a popular numerical analysis and simulation method in
computational electromagnetics, including plasmonics. For
curved material interfaces, the simple stair-casing approxima-
tion of such interfaces as often utilized in the FDTD calculation
of the electromagnetic field may result in numerical-accuracy
reduction in field values along the curved interface [29]. How-
ever, obtaining high-accuracy near fields for such situations
can be important for understanding the plasmonic phenomenon
and proposing relevant applications. More efforts must be
paid for overcoming such stair-casing problem in the FDTD
method, e.g., using the conformal scheme [30], the triangular
mesh [31], the effective permittivity [32], etc. The PSFD
method, however, can avoid such stair-casing problem since its
subdomain partitioning with curvilinear geometries can match
exactly to the shape of the structure interface [33], thus can
provide accurate computation.
Furthermore, in numerically modeling the plasmonic struc-
tures, material dispersive properties of metals need to be
carefully considered. In time-domain computation methods,
the auxiliary differential equation (ADE) technique [9] can
be employed to take into account the Drude-Lorentz material
model for a metal in the simulation. But the parameters in
the material dispersion model need to be carefully assigned
through curve fitting the measured dielectric function of the
metal [34], [35]. As a frequency-domain method, however,
the PSFD method can directly adopt the measured or given
complex dielectric constant of the metal at the considered fre-
quency without needing the ADE approach and the associated
curve-fitting procedure for treating material dispersion in the
electromagnetic calculations.
The remainder of this paper is outlined as follows. Maxwell’s
equations with the penalty scheme for the 2-D scattering
problem are described in Section II. The Legendre pseudospec-
tral method is introduced in Section III. Scattering calculation
results for a silver circular cylinder, a dielectric square cylinder,
and several coupled metallic structures involving circular
cylinders, square cylinders, or dielectric coated cylinders are
presented and discussed in Section IV. Some remarks on the
Fig. 1. Computational domain with pseudospectral subdomain division for the
scenario in which a plane wave is scattered by a 2-D object.
proposed formulation and scheme are given in Section V. The
conclusion is drawn in Section VI.
II. MAXWELL’S EQUATIONS WITH THE PENALTY SCHEME
For time-harmonic electromagnetic fields, and , in a
linear isotropic medium region with permittivity and per-
meability , Maxwell’s curl equations can be written in the
complex form as
(1a)
(1b)
where and represent the source electric and magnetic
current densities, respectively, and is the angular frequency.
Here, we consider the 2-D problem with no field variation
along the direction. Fig. 1 shows one example scenario in
which a plane wave is scattered by a 2-D circular cylinder.
We particularly study the transverse-magnetic (TM) waves
with , and field components because of plasmonics
applications. Therefore, Maxwell’s curl equations become three
first-order equations as
(2a)
(2b)
(2c)
In the multidomain PSFD method, the computational do-
main is partitioned into suitable non-overlapping subdomains
of curvilinear quadrilateral shape. Using the scattering by a cir-
cular cylinder as depicted in Fig. 1 as an example, if boundary
conditions are rigorously considered at the interface between
adjacent subdomains I and II with the unit normal vector
perpendicular to the interface expressed as ,
the continuity of tangential fields across the interface for
source-free dielectrics requires that
(3a)
(3b)
WANG et al.: HIGH-ACCURACY MULTIDOMAIN LEGENDRE PSFD METHOD WITH PENALTY SCHEME 771
polynomial of degree at most , we have the quadrature
rule [23]
(9)
where the quadrature weights are defined by
otherwise. (10)
Based on these LGL collocation points, one can use the de-
gree- Lagrange interpolation polynomials as the bases
to approximate an arbitrary function such that
(11)
where
(12)
Then, the derivative of the function at the LGL quadrature
point can also be approximated as
(13)
The differential coefficient is defined in [23] by
otherwise
(14)
if ; and
(15)
if . The so-called differential matrix operator with
elements can thus be substituted into the spatial derivative in
(13) as
...
...
...
...
(16)
This is the key feature of the Legendre PSFD method, i.e., for
the 1-D example, the derivative of at an LGL point in
the region can be approximated in terms of values
at the LGL points in the same region. Spatial derivatives
of fields in (5)–(7) can be simply replaced by these differential
matrix operators in the linear matrix system. The matrix
thus becomes a sparse matrix containing penalty, PML, and
terms. Note that those terms for spatial derivatives repeat-
edly appear in and are located with regularity, thus only this
small matrix in (16) is needed to be stored and our PSFD im-
plementation will be memory-saving, which can then be applied
to solve large problems or those requiring dense grid points. In
Fig. 2. Portion of the subdomain division profile in the computational domain
near the cylinder scatterers (the colored region) for . (a) A single cir-
cular cylinder. (b) Two coupled circular cylinders. (c) Two coupled rectangular
cylinders. (d) 45 -tilted square cylinder.
Fig. 2, the grid meshes based on the LGL points in each sub-
domain, except the PML ones, are plotted for . As
shown in the figure, the curved structure and the whole compu-
tational region are partitioned into curvilinear subdomains, and
LGL grid points are not uniformly distributed
but somewhat following the outline of the domain edges. Please
note that the LGL grid points at each edge side of a subdomain
are colocated with the LGL grid points at one edge side of its
adjacent subdomain. These colocated grid points are counted as
distinct sets of points, and the penalty scheme is applied on the
two sets for exchanging information of boundary conditions.
IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS
Here, the PSFDmethod is applied to analyze some basic scat-
tering problems. Accuracy will be first verified by examining
a circular-metallic-cylinder problem and comparing the results
with those obtained from the analytical approach. With the high
accuracy provided, the PSFDmethod is then applied to simulate
several coupled structures between closely placed, in nanometer
scale, metallic cylinders and investigate their optical behaviors.
A. Single Circular Metallic Cylinder
First, we examine the accuracy of the formulated Legendre
PSFD method by solving a simple problem of TM scattering
of a plane wave by a silver circular cylinder in free space at
an optical wavelength. Such problem is known to have an an-
alytical solution [27], [28]. Nevertheless, it is a good example
to test how accurate a numerical analysis method can perform
when dealing with plasmonic structures. The computational-do-
main setup with PMLs and the subdomain division is as shown
in Fig. 1, and the grid mesh is as depicted in Fig. 2(a). The ra-
dius of the cylinder is m and the wavelength of
the incident plane wave is m. At this wavelength, the
WANG et al.: HIGH-ACCURACY MULTIDOMAIN LEGENDRE PSFD METHOD WITH PENALTY SCHEME 773
Fig. 5. Tangential electric field versus for (a)
and (b) for the scattering of a 45 -tilted dielectric square cylinder
with side length . The dots are adopted from [37] and other lines stand
for PSFD calculated results of different degrees . (c) The expanded view
of those results in (a) near together with the corresponding PSFD
calculated total electric field results for showing the singular electric-field
characteristic at the dielectric corners.
Fig. 6. Field profiles for (a) , (b) , and (c) , respectively, for the
case of Fig. 5(b).
are two values for each since the tangential component
value referring to the left side and that referring to the right side
are different. Also displayed in Fig. 5(c) are the corresponding
profiles for the magnitudes of the total electric field, , which
show sharper singular behavior. The subdomain division profile
near the square cylinder is plotted in Fig. 2(d).
Fig. 7. and field distributions for plane-wave scattering by two cou-
pled silver circular cylinders. The plane wave is incident from left in (a) and
(b), and from bottom in (c) and (d). The radii are 50 nm and the side spacing
between the two cylinders is 10 nm.
C. Two Coupled Circular Metallic Cylinders
The field coupling between metallic nanoparticles plays an
important role in plasmonic research, which in particular may
result in strong local-field enhancement that can provide many
useful applications. We apply the PSFD method to study the
phenomenon of field coupling between two silver nano-cylin-
ders, with focus on two closely placed cylinders interacting with
incident light waves of different directions and polarizations.
The first case is a system of two 50-nm-radius circular cylin-
ders with 10-nm spacing allocated along the -axis. For the
and distribution results shown in Fig. 7(a) and (b), the wave
is incident from left at m and with polarization.
The measured complex dielectric constant of silver at this wave-
length is . The two cylinders are coupled such
that strong electric field enhancement occurs within the gap be-
tween them, with the maximum being about 6.42 times the
incident electric field intensity, as indicated in the color bar in
Fig. 7(a). Due to the direction of the incident wave, the elec-
tric field profile is longitudinally symmetric with respect to the
arrangement of cylinders. There is a null at the center, and the
fields below and above it are oppositely signed in phase. Also,
the incident polarization causes the first cylinder to oscillate
with strong fields on both -ended surfaces, as depicted in
Fig. 7(b), and less influence is on the second cylinder due to the
shielding from the first cylinder.
If the propagation direction of the incident wave is changed
to be bottom-up with polarization, strong field enhancement
occurs at m with the and field distribu-
tions shown in Fig. 7(c) and (d), respectively. At this wave-
length, the measured complex dielectric constant of silver is
about . In this case, obviously, the incident
field leads the free electrons in both cylinders to oscillate hori-
zontally and induces a strongly coupled field within the gap,
WANG et al.: HIGH-ACCURACY MULTIDOMAIN LEGENDRE PSFD METHOD WITH PENALTY SCHEME 775
Fig. 10. and field distributions for plane-wave scattering by two cou-
pled silver rectangular cylinders having a dielectric coating of 10-nm thickness.
The plane wave is incident from left to right in (a) and (b) and from bottom in
(c) and (d).
fact that the actual distance between the metallic cylinders is
30 nm rather than 10 nm.
F. Three Pairs of Circular Metallic Cylinders
We finally investigate two-by-three arranged six-silver-
cylinder arrays studied in [10], where the FDTD method was
used for simulations. This cylinder arrangement is shown
to give not only particle-particle but pair-pair interactions,
thus strong localized field enhancement could be generated
in the gap of the middle pair [10]. In [10], measured material
characteristics for silver given in [35] instead of [34] were
used. We also adopt the data in [35] in our calculations for
comparison. Our PSFD results given in Fig. 11 are for the
incident wave from left to right and the spacing between ad-
jacent cylinders being 20 nm. In [10], it was found that with
gap size of 20 nm and at nm, the maximum field
enhancement of about 8.89 occurs when the cylinder radius is
36 nm. Our PSFD simulated profile for this case is shown
in Fig. 11(a), where the maximum field value is 11.11 V/m,
referring to the incident field of 1 V/m, and the field value at
the center of the gap of the middle pair is about 9.33 V/m,
which is larger than that value of [10] by 4.72%. The value
is defined here by . The measured
complex dielectric constant of silver given in [35] is about
at this wavelength. If the value given
in [34], , is used, the PSFD calculated
maximum field value and the field value at the center of the
gap of the middle pair would be about 13.78 and 11.65 V/m,
respectively.
When the wavelength is changed to 650 nm, the cylinder ra-
dius was found in [10] to be 58 nm for generating largest field
enhancement of 13.04. Our results for this case are presented
Fig. 11. field distributions for plane-wave scattering by six silver circular
cylinders with incident wave from left. (a) Cylinder radius nm at
460 nm. (b) Cylinder radius 58 nm at nm. All gap widths are
20 nm.
in Fig. 11(b), where the maximum field is 15.54 V/m and
the field value at the same gap center is about 14.09 V/m, again
larger than those values of [10] by 8.05%. The complex dielec-
tric constant of silver cylinder is about
from [35] for this incident wavelength. Again, if we choose
to adopt the measured parameter from [34], which is
, the PSFD calculated maximum field
value and the field value at the center of the gap of the middle
pair would be about 17.07 V/m and 15.51 V/m, respectively.
V. SOME REMARKS ON THE PROPOSED
FORMULATION AND SCHEME
The proposed pseudospectral formulation and scheme in this
paper have been based on the Legendre collocation points, the
first-order Maxwell’s equations, and the penalty scheme for in-
terface conditions, which are in contrast to some existing ones
based on the Chebyshev collocation points, the second-order
Helmholtz equations, and/or directly matching interface condi-
tions. The advantages of our ones are discussed in the following.
A. Legendre Collocation Points Versus Chebyshev
Collocation Points
A major factor, which makes the Chebyshev pseudospectral
approximations based on the Chebyshev–Gauss–Lobatto points
more popular than the Legendre pseudospectral approximations
based on the Legendre–Gauss–Lobatto points, is the fast fourier
transform (FFT). This technique allows the numerical deriva-
tives to be computed in operations. Indeed, Cheby-
shev pseudospectral method is very attractive for problems de-
fined on regular domains, based on single domain computational
framework. For these problems, either time-dependent or time-
independent, if the required number of grid points is beyond
100, then the FFT technique does improve the computational ef-
ficiency. However, in a multidomain computational framework
which can be used to solve problems defined on complicated
domains, the number of grid points in each subdomain is gen-
erally much less than 100 and thus, we do not gain efficiency
on using Chebyshev pseudospectral method [38]. Of course this
does not mean we need to use Legendre pseudospectral method
instead. The reason of using Legendre pseudospectral approx-
imation will be discussed after addressing issues related to the
penalty methodology of imposing boundary conditions.
WANG et al.: HIGH-ACCURACY MULTIDOMAIN LEGENDRE PSFD METHOD WITH PENALTY SCHEME 777
interpolation by Legendre polynomials. In the multidomain ap-
proach, the whole computational domain is properly partitioned
into curvilinear subdomains fitting the generally curved mate-
rial-interface shapes.With this demonstrated extremely high nu-
merical accuracy, the formulated method should be useful for
plasmonics research and can provide reliable results for the cal-
culation of field enhancement near metal surface, as shown in
the numerical examples including coupled plasmonic cylinders
of either circular or square shape. Our analysis results also pro-
vide a good reference for other numerical methods to compare
with. Moreover, the frequency-domain approach has the advan-
tage of directly using a given complex dielectric constant of the
material in the calculation with no need of implementing a dis-
persive material model like in the time-domain approach.
A final remark goes to the possible singular-field behavior
when the material interface is non-smooth such as in the
square-shaped-cylinder cases, as was discussed in connection
with Fig. 5. Although the spectral convergence property of
the PSFD method has been demonstrated when simulating
round cylinders, when interface corners appear, numerical
convergence would unavoidably be degraded. In Fig. 5(c), it
was demonstrated that, although only one subdomain is em-
ployed for the square-cylinder cross-section, the singular-field
characteristic evolves as the degree in the PSFD calculation
is increased so that the grid size near the dielectric corner
shrinks. Related treatment of such singularities based on the
finite element method has been reported through using al-
gebraically graded grids near the corner where a singularity
exists [38]–[40]. Further treatment and more detailed study
about the corner singularities using the PSFD method, such as
with refined arrangement of subdomains, would worth being
pursued as a more basic topic.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank the National Center for
High-Performance Computing, Hsinchu, Taiwan, the Academia
Sinica Computing Center, Taipei, Taiwan, and the Computer
and Information Networking Center, National Taiwan Univer-
sity, Taipei, for providing useful computing resources.
REFERENCES
[1] S. A. Maier and H. A. Atwater, “Plasmonics: Localization and guiding
of electromagnetic energy in metal/dielectric structures,” J. Appl.
Phys., vol. 98, no. 1, Jul. 2005, Art. ID 011101.
[2] M. Moskovits, “Surface-enhanced spectroscopy,” Rev. Mod. Phys.,
vol. 57, no. 3, pp. 783–826, July 1985.
[3] P. Mühlschlegel, H. J. Eisler, O. J. F. Martin, B. Hecht, and D.W. Pohl,
“Resonant optical antennas,” Science, vol. 308, pp. 1607–1609, 2005.
[4] S. A.Maier, P. G.Kik, andH. A. Atwater, “Optical pulse propagation in
metal nanoparticle chain waveguides,”Phys. Rev. B, vol. 67, p. 205402,
2003.
[5] J. P. Kottmann and O. J. F. Martin, “Retardation-induced plasmon
resonances in coupled nanoparticles,” Opt. Lett., vol. 26, no. 14, pp.
1096–1098, July 2001.
[6] C. F. Bohren and D. R. Huffman, Absorption and Scattering of Light
by Small Particles. New York: Wiley, 1983.
[7] R. L. Chern, X. X. Liu, and C. C. Chang, “Particle plasmons of metal
nanospheres: Application of multiple scattering approach,” Phys. Rev.
E, vol. 76, 2007, Art. ID 016609.
[8] R. Gomez-Medina, M. Laroche, and J. J. Saenz, “Extraordinary optical
reflection from sub-wavelength cylinder arrays,”Opt. Exp., vol. 14, no.
9, pp. 3730–3737, May 2006.
[9] A. Taflove and S. C. Hagness, Computational Electrodynamics: The
Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method, 3rd ed. Norwood, MA:
Artech House, 2005.
[10] M. Y. Ng and W. C. Liu, “Local-field confinement in three-pair arrays
of metallic nanocylinders,” Opt. Exp., vol. 14, no. 10, pp. 4504–4513,
May 2006.
[11] J. P. Kottmann and O. J. F. Martin, “Plasmon resonant coupling in
metallic nanowires,” Opt. Exp., vol. 8, no. 12, pp. 655–663, Jun. 2001.
[12] M. W. Chen, Y. F. Chau, and D. P. Tsai, “Three-dimensional analysis
of scattering field interactions and surface plasmon resonance in cou-
pled silver nanospheres,” Plasmonics, vol. 3, pp. 157–164, Oct. 2008.
[13] R. Rodriguez-Oliveros and J. A. Sanchez-Gil, “Localized sur-
face-plasmon resonances on single and coupled nanoparticles through
surface integral equations for flexible surfaces,” Opt. Exp., vol. 19, no.
13, pp. 12208–12219, Jun. 2011.
[14] J. P. Kottmann, O. J. F. Martin, D. R. Smith, and S. Schultz, “Plasmon
resonances of silver nanowires with a nonregular cross section,” Phys.
Rev. B, vol. 64, 2001, Art. ID 235402.
[15] E. Prodan, C. Radloff, N. J. Halas, and P. Nordlander, “A hybridization
model for the plasmon response of complex nanostructures,” Science,
vol. 302, no. 5644, pp. 419–422, Oct. 2003.
[16] B. Yang, D. Gottlieb, and J. S. Hesthaven, “Spectral simulations of
electromagnetic wave scattering,” J. Comput. Phys., vol. 134, pp.
216–230, 1997.
[17] B. Yang and J. S. Hesthaven, “A pseudospectral method for time-do-
main computation of electromagnetic scattering by bodies of revolu-
tion,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 132–141,
Jan. 1999.
[18] J. S. Hesthaven, P. G. Dinesen, and J. P. Lynov, “Spectral colloca-
tion time-domain modeling of diffractive optical elements,” J. Comput.
Phys., vol. 155, pp. 287–306, Nov. 1999.
[19] G. Zhao and Q. H. Liu, “The 3-D multidomain pseudospectral time-
domain algorithm for inhomogeneous conductive media,” IEEE Trans.
Antennas Propagat., vol. 52, no. 3, pp. 742–749, Mar. 2004.
[20] Q. H. Liu, “A pseudospectral frequency-domain (PSFD) method for
computational electromagnetics,” IEEE Antennas Wireless Propagat.
Lett., vol. 1, pp. 131–134, 2002.
[21] P. J. Chiang, C. P. Yu, and H. C. Chang, “Analysis of two-dimensional
photonic crystals using a multidomain pseudospectral method,” Phys.
Rev. E, vol. 75, Feb. 2007, Art. ID 026703.
[22] P. J. Chiang, C. L. Wu, C. H. Teng, C. S. Yang, and H. C. Chang,
“Full-vectorial optical waveguide mode solvers using multidomain
pseudospectral frequency-domain (PSFD) formulations,” IEEE J.
Quantum Electron., vol. 44, no. 1, pp. 56–66, Jan. 2008.
[23] C. H. Teng, B. Y. Lin, H. C. Chang, H. C. Hsu, C. N. Lin, and K. A.
Feng, “A Legendre pseudospectral penalty scheme for solving time-
domain Maxwell’s equations,” J. Sci. Comput., vol. 36, pp. 351–390,
2008.
[24] J. P. Berenger, “A perfectly matched layer for the absorption of elec-
tromagnetic waves,” J. Comput. Phys., vol. 114, no. 2, pp. 185–200,
Oct. 1994.
[25] S. Abarbanel and D. Gottlieb, “A mathematical analysis of the PML
method,” J. Comput. Phys., vol. 134, pp. 357–363, 1997.
[26] S. Abarbanel and D. Gottlieb, “On the construction and analysis of
absorbing layers in CEM,” Appl. Numer. Math., vol. 27, pp. 331–340,
1998.
[27] L. Rayleigh, “The dispersal of light by a dielectric cylinder,” Philos.
Mag., vol. 36, pp. 365–376, 1918.
[28] J. R. Wait, “Scattering of plane wave from a circular dielectric cylinder
at oblique incidence,” Can. J. Phys., vol. 33, no. 5, pp. 189–195, 1955.
[29] W. J. Gordon and C. A. Hall, “Transfinite element methods: Blending
function interpolation over arbitrary curved element domains,” Numer.
Math., vol. 21, pp. 109–129, 1973.
[30] S. Dey and R. Mittra, “A locally conformal finite-difference time-do-
main (FDTD) algorithm for modeling three-dimensional perfectly
conducting objects,” IEEE Microw. Guided Wave Lett., vol. 7, pp.
273–275, Sept. 1997.
[31] Y. Liu, C. D. Sarris, and G. V. Eleftheriades, “Triangular-mesh-based
FDTD analysis of two-dimensional plasmonic structures supporting
backward waves at optical frequencies,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 25,
no. 3, pp. 938–946, Mar. 2007.
[32] Y. Zhao and Y. Hao, “Finite-difference time-domain study of guided
modes in nano-plasmonic waveguides,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Prop-
agat., vol. 55, no. 11, pp. 3070–3077, Nov. 2007.
[33] W. J. Gordon and C. A. Hall, “Transfinite element methods: Blending-
function interpolation over arbitrary curved element domains,” Numer.
Math., vol. 21, pp. 109–129, 1973.
 PECS-X 2012
348
Poster Abstract 
PECS-X: 10th International Symposium on Photonic and Electromagnetic Crystal Structures 
Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA, June 3-June 8, 2012 
PECS-X-145 
Simulating Extraordinary Optical Transmission Through 
Periodic U to H Shaped Apertures
Hui-Hsin Hsiao1 and Hung-chun Chang
1 Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617
2
d96941018@ntu.edu.tw
2 Department of Electrical Engineering, Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, and Graduate 
Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617
hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw
Abstract: The optical properties of a designated 2D array of U to H shaped holes perforated 
on a metallic film are analyzed using the FDTD method. Some specific near-field features are 
found to be associated with three mechanisms underlying the transmission spectral profiles,
providing a way in revealing the physical nature of the enhanced transmission phenomenon.
The phenomenon of extraordinary transmission through periodically arranged sub-wavelength holes 
in metal films has attracted considerable interest during past decades1. The main mechanisms respon-
sible for this phenomenon have been widely believed to be the excitation of surface plasmon polari-
tons (SPPs) and Wood’s anomalies (WAs) set up by periodically arranged holes. In addition, it has 
been shown that the shape of the aperture has a strong effect on the transmission spectra2,3. In this 
work, we study the optical properties of three similar but differently shaped apertures, which are basi-
cally composed of two horizontal slits, named x-arm slits, and one vertical slit, named y-arm slit. The
difference between them lies in the horizontal position of the y-arm silt, which is shifted from the 
alignment with the left of the two x-arm silts to one forth length and finally to the middle. Figures 1(a) 
shows the top views and structural parameters of samples 1 (U-shaped) to 3 (H-shaped), and Fig. 1(b) 
depicts the unit cell and near-field plane cuts in our simulation. The unit cell is with lattice constants 
of ax = ay = 14 μm, where the length of each silt l x = l y = 8 μm and the width of the silt w = 1 μm. The 
metal (silver) film with thickness 75 nm is coated on a silicon substrate. In addition, the relative 
permittivity of the silicon substate is taken as 11.9, and that of the silver is modeled by the Drude 
dispersion with a plasma frequency of ωp = 1.3709 × 1016 s-1 and a collision frequency of γ = 3.2258 × 
1013 s-1. The experimental observation of such structures has been reported4. We thus use our in-house 
developed three-dimensional (3D) finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) program to simulate trans-
mission spectra and near-field distributions at several particular wavelengths to gain more understand-
ing of the physical characteristics of the resonant modes.
We analyzed the distributions of amplitude (|E|) and phase (ψ) of the electric-field phasor simultane-
ously. For shape resonances (SRs), we observed that the large magnitude of |E| is concentrated near 
the boundaries of the hole and the distribution of the phase component parallel to the polarization of 
the incident light (e.g. ψx under x-polarized light) is quite homogeneous within the shape resonant 
paths, which may contribute to the strong transmission. The phase component along the propagation 
direction, ψz, exhibits a 180-degree phase difference with respect to the center of the slit width along 
the shape resonant path, and therefore it is helpful information in recognizing the effective resonant 
lengths of the SRs. In addition, the |Ez| distributions are strongly localized near the edges of the slits
for SRs, while those of WAs and surface electromagnetic (EM) modes show distinct field patterns at 
the Ag/Si interface. We find that the ψz distributions for WA dips are quite homogeneous, which may 
be resulting from the accumulation of in-phase multiple scattering. On the other hand, the weak cou-
pling of surface EM modes with scattered field near the apertures may contribute to the transmission
peaks and also be related to the severer phase change near the hole in the substrate.
The structures are illuminated by x- and y-polarized plane waves, respectively, under normal 
incidence. We in particular discuss the broad-band peaks in the transmission spectra under y-polarized 
light. As shown in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b), the |E| distributions, which are concentrated near the bounda-
ries of the hole with a node in the middle of the y-arm slit, demonstrate geometric resonant patterns of 
2nd U-shaped resonances. Moreover, the |Ez| distributions (not shown) at ⊥ y-plane cut are strongly 
localized near the edges of the slits and the ψz distributions (not shown) exhibit a 180-degree phase 
IEEE JOURNAL OF QUANTUM ELECTRONICS 1
Prediction of Transmission Shape-Resonances in
Aperture Arrays with One- or Twofold
Mirror-Symmetry Based on a Near-Field Phase
Property
Hui-Hsin Hsiao and Hung-chun Chang, Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—The light-transmission resonant behavior of
complex-shaped patterns can be difficult to estimate intuitively
due to many possible resonant contours. In this paper, we
propose a simple method to predict the effective resonant
paths of onefold or twofold mirror-symmetry patterns, which
exploits the anti-phase property of certain field component along
the resonant path and the symmetry requirement associated
with the incident-wave polarization state. In addition, the
resonant wavelengths for aperture-type patterns can further be
estimated by a simple modified cutoff wavelength equation for
a rectangular waveguide. Such prediction is validated by the
simulated results of the Finite-Difference Time Domain method.
Moreover, we discuss how the separation distance between
slit elements in the aperture affects the resonant wavelength,
showing how the coupling between adjacent slits would play a
role in the variation of the spectra. By studying the properties
of such factors and how they interact in detail, we could
manipulate the spectra with an additional degree of freedom,
which could be important to structures with multi-elements in
one unit cell.
Index Terms—Frequency-selective surfaces, infrared, metama-
terials, surface plasmons.
I. INTRODUCTION
S INCE 1960, frequency-selective-surface (FSS) structureshave been the subject of intensive study due to their mil-
itary applications for reducing radar cross-sections (RCSs) of
communication systems [1]. FSSs are often constructed within
a two-dimensional (2D) periodic metal-dielectric array and can
be generally categorized into two major groups: patch-type
elements and aperture-type elements. Their resonant wave-
lengths depend on the shape of the elements and their lattice
geometry [2]. Due to the advances of fabrication technology,
This work was supported in part by the National Science Council of
the Republic of China under grants NSC100-2628-M-002-008 and NSC100-
2221-E-002-182-MY2, in part by the Excellent Research Projects of National
Taiwan University under grant 10R80919-1, and in part by the Ministry of
Education of the Republic of China under ”The Aim of Top University Plan”
grant.
This paper has supplementary downloadable material available at
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org, provided by authors. This includes two multimedia
GIF format animations and a readme file with 357 KB in size.
H.-H. Hsiao is with the Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelec-
tronics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. (e-mail:
d96941018@ntu.edu.tw).
H.-C. Chang is with the Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelec-
tronics, Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, and Department
of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617,
R.O.C. (e-mail: hungchun@ntu.edu.tw).
lx = 12 μm
ly = 7 μm
5.5 μm
2 μm
Sample 1 Sample 2
Sample 4
Sample 3
Sample 5
5.5 μm
1st x-arm slit
2nd x-arm slit
3rd x-arm slit
Cx
Cy
(a)
In-plane cut
ax
wly
ay
z
x
y
(b)
Fig. 1. (a) Top view and structural parameters of samples 1–5. (b) The unit
cell and the near-field plane cut in our simulation. The in-plane cut is along the
silicon substrate side right after the back surface of thin metal film perforated
with 2D hole arrays.
the achievement of miniaturized elements provokes other
research fields such as metamaterials and the extraordinary
transmission (EOT) phenomenon through subwavelength hole
arrays. Many numerical methods such as the finite-element
method (FEM) and the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD)
method [3] have been widely used for analyzing and designing
the frequency responses of these miniaturized structures [4],
[5]. The equivalent circuit model also gives a qualitative
description for the resonant modes of FSS structures [6]. For
example, the analogy of the LC circuit model to the fishnet
[7] or the split-ring resonator (SRR) [8] structures successfully
connects the resonant dependency to the geometry. Medina
et al. [9], [10] used a transmission-line equivalent circuit
model to explain the EOT phenomenon. On the other hand,
the plasmonic point of view further provides some physical
insights of the interaction between light and designed patterns.
Rockstuhl et al. [11] reinterpreted the LC-resonance of the
IEEE JOURNAL OF QUANTUM ELECTRONICS 3
TABLE I
THE ESTIMATED EFFECTIVE RESONANT LENGTHS, Lres , AND WAVELENGTHS, λres , WITH RESPECT TO THE FDTD SIMULATED RESULTS FOR SAMPLES
1–5.
Incident field polarization Sample Estimated Lres (µm) Estimated λres (µm) λFDTD (µm) Deviation in λres
1 18 91.43 98 6.7%
2 18 91.43 100 8.6%
Exinc 3 7 35.56
4 15 76.19 83 8.2%
5 12.5 63.49 65 2.3%
1,2 12 60.95 56.5 7.9%
Eyinc 3,5 12 60.95 68 10.4%
4 12 60.95 64.5 5.5%
(unit: ⁰)(unit: ⁰)
|E| ψEx ψEz(a)
(unit: ⁰) (unit: ⁰)
|E| ψEx ψEz(b)
(unit: ⁰) (unit: ⁰)
|E| ψEx ψEz(c)
Fig. 4. |E|, ψEx, and ψEz distributions at in-plane cut for (a) sample 1 at 98 µm, (b) sample 2 at 100 µm, and (c) sample 3 at 50 µm.
arm slit for samples 1 and 3 would not have significant effect
for their SRs under x-polarized light. Moreover, for samples
4 and 5, ψEz does not need to be with even symmetry with
respect to Cy, so the limitation for the SR path to cross the
second x-arm slit no longer exists. The small green U-shaped
path, the light blue L-shaped path, and the dark blue L-shaped
path indicated in Fig. 1(a) are possible for sample 4. Since the
U-shaped one is the longest than other two L-shaped paths in
our designed parameters, the estimated SR path for samples 4
and 5 would be the U-shaped resonance and the dark blue L-
shaped resonance, respectively. We thus calculate the effective
SR lengths (Lres) according to the predicted contours and
estimate the corresponding λres’s by (1), and the results for
samples 1 to 5 are summarized in TABLE I.
To evaluate the validity of the predicted SR contours and
wavelengths mentioned above, our in-house developed FDTD
program was implemented to simulate both the transmission
spectra and the near-field features corresponding to those
SR peaks. The simulated transmittance spectra have been
demonstrated to agree well with the measured ones for our
previous samples [13]. Periodic boundary conditions were
applied to the xz and yz planes to simulate a square periodic
array of apertures. In addition, the relative permittivity of the
silicon substrate was taken as 11.9, and that of the silver was
modeled by the Drude dispersion with a plasma frequency
of ωp = 1.3709 × 1016s−1 and a collision frequency of
γ = 3.2258 × 1013s−1 [20]. Fig. 3 shows the transmission
spectra for samples 1 to 5 under x-polarized light. The
transmission minima are associated with WAs which could
happen when one of the diffracted orders becomes grazing,
and the free-space wavelength that satisfies the WA condition
under normal incidence is given by [21]
λWA =
Λ√
i2 + j2
×√εd (2)
IEEE JOURNAL OF QUANTUM ELECTRONICS 5
shape of the patch within twofold mirror symmetry, ψHz
needs to be with odd/even (even/odd) symmetry with respect
to Cx/Cy under y-polarized (x-polarized) light. Consider the
SRR structure with only onefold symmetry with respect to
Cy, shown in Fig. 6(a) as an example, ψHz now only needs
to be with even symmetry with respect to Cy under y-polarized
light, so the possible longest effective contour can be the
U-shaped path corresponding to the LC resonance. For x-
polarized light, the odd symmetry requirement with respect
to Cy for ψHz causes the excitation of second order U-
shaped plasmonic modes [11]. We thus examined the near-field
distributions for the LC resonance (the fundamental plasmonic
resonance) of the SRR structure reported in [4] to see whether
ψHz can give the information of the effective resonant path
within the patch elements. Fig. 6(a) shows the transmission
spectrum with the polarization of the electric field parallel to
the gap (Eyinc), which agrees well with the normal incident
case of Fig. 2(b) in [4]. The dip at λ ∼ 1.5 µm corresponds to
the LC resonance [4]. By analyzing the near-field distribution
of this mode, we found the ψHz distribution exhibits a 180◦
phase difference with respect to the center of the metallic-rod
width along the U-shaped path, proving that the characteristics
of ψHz can also be used to predict the effective resonant paths
for patch elements (Fig. 6(b)).
III. y-POLARIZED LIGHT
Next, we consider the possible SR paths for samples 1
to 5 under y-polarized light, so ψEz now needs to be with
even/odd symmetry with respect to Cx/Cy for twofold mirror
symmetry apertures (Fig. 2(c)). Due to the requirement of even
symmetry with respect to Cx, the resonant paths are forbidden
to cross the y-arm slits for samples 1 to 5, which are all
posited in the middle of the x-coordinate within the unit cell.
Without the connection of the vertical y-arm slit, the possible
SR paths are all along the horizontal x-arm slits (Lres = 12
µm), and the expected resonant wavelengths would be at 60.95
µm. However, the simulated transmission spectra shown in
Fig. 7(a) exhibit different SR wavelengths for samples with
different separation distances between the x-arm slits, s1 and
s2, specified in the inset. By analyzing the near-field features,
we found that the broad-band peaks at λ ∼ 56 µm, 64 µm, and
68 µm correspond respectively to the first and third x-arm slits
resonance with s1 = 5 µm and s2 = 7 µm (for both samples 1
and 2, referring to |E|, ψEy , and ψEz distributions shown in
Figs. 8(a) and 8(b), respectively), the second and third x-arm
slits resonance with s1 = 2 µm and s2 = 10 µm (for sample
4, referring to Fig. 8(d)), and one x-arm slit resonance with
s1 + s2 +w = 13 µm (for both samples 3 and 5, referring to
Figs. 8(c) and 8(e), respectively). Besides, an additional small
peak near λ = 73 µm is seen in the spectra for sample 1 in
Fig. 7(a). According to the |E|, ψEy, and ψEz distributions
shown in Fig. 9, we can understand that the 73-µm peak is
associated with the second x-arm slit resonance.
To investigate how the coupling between the adjacent slits
affects the spectra, we simulated two x-arm slits in an infinite
metallic film with the convolutional perfectly matched layers
[23] used for the six sides of the simulation volume. Without
20 40 60 80 100 120 140
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
Wavelength ( µm)
Tr
an
sm
iss
io
n
 
 
¤ý
¤u
¤Q
¤g
T
(0,2)
(1,1)
(0,1)
a
S 1
S 1
S 2
(a)
S1= 5
S2= 7
S1= 2
S2= 10
S2 +S2
+w = 13
20 40 60 80 100 120 140
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
Wavelength ( µm)
"
No
rm
ali
ze
d"
 Tr
an
sm
iss
io
n
 
 
s = 1 µm
s = 2 µm
s = 3 µm
s = 4 µm
s = 5 µm
s = 7 µm
s = 9 µm
s = 10 µm
s = 13 µm
s
(b)
SeR
SR
Fig. 7. (a) Transmission spectra with an y-polarized light under normal
incidence. The inset shows two adjacent unit cells with separation distances
between the x-arm slits, s1 and s2, specified. (b) Transmission spectra as a
function of the separation distance (s) shown in the inset varied from 1 µm
to 13 µm with the marked curves corresponding to s = 5 µm and s = 7 µm
(samples 1 and 2 in Fig. 7(a)), s = 2 µm and s = 10 µm (sample 4 in Fig.
7(a)), and s = 13 µm (samples 3 and 5 in Fig. 7(a)), respectively.
the periodic condition, we can avoid the shaping effect of WAs
in the spectra and clearly determine the resonant wavelength.
In addition, the dispersion of silver may influence the neff ’s
for SR modes, so the silver film was replaced by a perfect
electric conductor (PEC) film to eliminate this factor. The
“normalized” transmission is defined by
Tnorm =
∫
Ai
PzdA∫
Ai
Pz,incdA
× Ai
Ahole
(4)
where Pz,inc is the z component of the Poynting vector from
the source, Pz is the z component of the Poynting vector
leaving the plane of integration Ai, and Ahole is the sum area
of the holes. The plane of integration Ai is located at z = −12
µm below the PEC film. Fig. 7(b) shows the “normalized”
transmission spectra as functions of the separation distance
between two x-arm slits, s, shown in the inset varied from 1
µm to 13 µm, and the spectra for those separation distances
corresponding to the resonant modes at λ ∼ 56 µm, 64 µm,
and 68 µm are displayed by marked curves. For example,
two marked green curves with s = 5 µm and s = 7 µm
IEEE JOURNAL OF QUANTUM ELECTRONICS 7
(unit: ⁰) (unit: ⁰)
|E| ψEy ψEz
Fig. 9. |E|, ψEy , and ψEz distributions at in-plane cut for the second x-arm slit resonance of sample 1 at λ = 73 µm.
Fig. 10. The dynamic surface current distributions within one period of time
for (a) the SR peak at λ = 64 µm and (b) the SeR peak at λ = 29 µm when the
separation distance is 3 µm. The arrows represent directions and the color map
represents intensities. The supplementary downloadable material is available
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
near the edges of the apertures (Fig. 10(a)), while that for the
SeRs exhibits a standing wave pattern between the two x-arm
silts (Fig. 10(b)), so the SeR wavelength is proportional to
s. The overall spectral effect depends on how they interact.
For example, the SeRs redshift and get closer to the SRs as
s increases in our case, so they start to merge and become a
high-transmittance peak with an overall redshift trend.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
We have successfully demonstrated a simple and effi-
cient approach to predict the effective resonant contours for
aperture-type elements and patch-type elements by utilizing
the characteristics of ψEz and ψHz within the resonant paths
and their symmetric requirement associated with the polar-
ization state of the incident light. The prediction is then
examined by the FDTD results, showing good agreement with
the real resonant modes. By applying the modified approxi-
mation equation for the cutoff wavelengths of the rectangular
waveguide, we can thus estimate the resonant wavelengths
with the deviations below 11% compared with the FDTD
results.
In addition, we also discussed how the separation distance
between apertures affects the spectra, which depends on the
interaction between the SRs and the SeRs. It is observed that
the proportional relationship for the SeRs to the separation
distance is attributed to their surface current distributions
exhibiting standing wave patterns between the apertures, while
the current distributions for the SRs are localized near the
edges of the apertures. As a consequence, we could manipulate
the spectra by altering the shape of the elements as well as
changing the separation distance between the elements for
multi-element structures within one unit cell.
REFERENCES
[1] B.A. Munk, Frequency-Selective Surfaces: Theory and Design, New
York: Wiley, 2000.
[2] S. M. Hamdy and P. A. Parker, “Influence of lattice geometry on trans-
mission of electromagnetic waves through arrays of crossed dipoles,”
IEE Proc. Microwave, Antennas and Prop., vo. 129, no. 1, pp. 7–10,
Feb. 1982.
[3] A. Taflove and S. C. Hagness, Computational Electrodynamics: The
Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method, 3rd ed. Norwood, MA: Artech
House, 2005.
[4] C. Enkrich, M. Wegener, S. Linden, S. Burger, L. Zschiedrich, F.
Schmidt, J. F. Zhou, Th. Koschny, and C. M. Soukoulis, “Magnetic
metamaterials at telecommunication and visible frequencies,” Phys. Rev.
Lett., vol. 95, no. 20, pp. 203901-1–203901-4, Nov. 2005.
[5] G. Dolling, C. Enkrich, and M. Wegener, “Low-loss negative-index
metamaterial at telecommunication wavelengths,” Opt. Lett., vol. 31,
no. 12, pp. 1800–1802, Jun. 2006.
[6] K. Sarabandi and N. Behdad, “A frequency selective surface with
miniaturized elements,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 55, no. 5,
pp. 1239–1245, May 2007.
[7] S. Zhang, W. Fan, K. J. Malloy, S.R. Brueck, N. C. Panoiu, and R. M.
Osgood, “Near-infrared double negative metamaterials,” Opt. Express,
vol. 13, no. 13, pp. 4922–4930, Jun. 2005.
[8] S. Linden, C. Enkrich, G. Dolling, M. W. Klein, J. Zhou, T. Koschny,
C. M. Soukoulis, S. Burger, F. Schmidt, and M. Wegener “Photonic
metamaterials: magnetism at optical frequencies,” IEEE J. Sel. Top.
Quantum Electron., vol. 12, no. 6, pp. 1097–1105, Nov.–Dec. 2006.
[9] F. Medina, F. Mesa, and R. Marque´s, “Extraordinary transmission
through arrays of electrically small holes from a circuit theory perspec-
tive,” IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory and Tech., vol. 56, no. 12, pp.
3108–3120, Dec. 2008.
[10] F. Medina, F. Mesa, and D. C. Skigin, “Extraordinary transmission
through arrays of slits: A circuit theory model,” IEEE Trans. on
Microwave Theory and Tech., vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 105–115, Jan. 2010.
[11] C. Rockstuhl, F. Lederer, C. Etrich, T. Zentgraf, J. Kuhl, and H. Giessen,
“On the reinterpretation of resonances in split-ring-resonators at normal
incidence,” Opt. Express, vol. 14, no. 19, pp. 8827–8836, Sep. 2006.
[12] F. J. Garcı´a-Vidal, L. Martı´n-Moreno, T. W. Ebbesen, and L. Kuipers,
“Light passing through subwavelength apertures,” Rev. Mod. Phys., vol.
82, no.1, pp. 729–787, Jan.–Mar. 2010.
The Optical Properties of Raman-Enhancing 
Substrates 
Hui-Hsin Hsiao1, Juen-Kai Wang2, and Hung-chun Chang1,3,4,*, Senior Member, IEEE 
1Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C.  
2Institute of Atomic and Molecular Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C 
 and Center for Condensed Matter Sciences,National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
3Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
4Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C.  
 *Corresponding author: hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw    Presenting author: d96941018@ntu.edu.tw
 
 
Abstract—We exploit the in-house finite-difference time-
domain (FDTD) program to simulate the optical response for a 
bacterium placed above a Raman-enhancing substrate made of 
Ag nanoparticles (Ag-NPs) on an anodic aluminum oxide 
(AAO) layer. The radar cross section (RCS) shows that the 
existence of a bacterium among the Ag-NP/AAO substrate 
causes more light to be scattered to the directions within the 
polar angle around 120° to 150° and less light to be reflected, 
which demonstrates a close relationship with the microscopic 
image. 
Index Terms—Localized surface plasmon resonance, 
microscopy, radar cross section (RCS), surface-enhanced 
Raman scattering (SERS). 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR) within 
metallic nanoparticles gives arise to large enhancement of 
the local electromagnetic field at the nanostructure surface, 
which leads to surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) 
and other surface-enhanced spectroscopic processes [1]. For 
practical applications of the SERS phenomenon, many 
efforts have been done in developing uniform and 
reproducible SERS substrates. One of such structures is 
arrays of silver nanoparticles (Ag-NPs) partially buried into 
anodic aluminum oxide (AAO) layers [2], [3]. However, the 
opaqueness of Ag-NP/AAO substrates obstructs 
visualization of microscopic details for observing objects 
such as bacteria. Therefore, Wang et al. [3] further used an 
ion-drift process to enhance transparency of Ag-NP/AAO 
substrate. As shown in Fig. 4(b) in [3], S. aureus bacteria can 
now be clearly distinguished from the transparent SERS 
substrate. The image of each bacterium exhibits a darker 
center with bright surroundings. This is a breakthrough 
improvement because we usually need to dye the sample 
before observing if we use the traditional glass substrate.  
However, the reason that causes the higher-contrast image 
for transparent Ag-NP/AAO substrate is not clear. 
In this research, we use our in-house developed three-
dimensional (3D) finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) 
method program to simulate transmittance, total scattering 
cross section (TSCS), and radar cross section (RCS) for 
AAO substrate, Ag-NP/AAO substrate, and those with a 
bacterium above these two substrates. The transmittance 
shows a good correspondence to the experimental result with 
a LSPR dip near 400 nm – 600 nm.  By analyzing the RCS, 
we found that within the range of LSPR, the existence of a 
bacterium among the Ag-NP/AAO substrate causes more 
light to be scattered around the edge of the bacterium and 
less light to be reflected, which may be due to the sensitivity 
of LSPRs to their environment and the geometry of the 
bacterium. Besides, the Ag-NP array acts as an antenna array 
amplifying those non-evanescent signals to transmit to the 
far field.  Therefore, we can obtain a high-contrast image for 
the bacteria within the Ag-NP/AAO substrate. 
II. THE SIMULATION METHOD 
We use the in-house 3D FDTD program with 
convolutional perfectly matched layers (CPMLs) applied to 
the six boundaries of the simulation volume to simulate a 
system of a bacterium residing in a Ag-NP/AAO substrate. A 
schematic view of the system we studied in this paper is 
displayed in Fig. 1(a) and 1(b). As shown in Fig. 1 (a), we 
use a hemisphere with diameter d,bac = 300 nm to represent a 
bacterium and a square array composed of 19 × 19 Ag-NPs 
 
                  (a)                                                           (b) 
Fig. 1. (a) A schematic view of our simulation structure. (b) The 
coordinate of the RCS calculation for our system. 
with diameter d,Ag = 30 nm and gap g = 5 nm to approximate 
the condition of an infinite Ag-NPs array. We have tested the 
number of the Ag-NPs to insure that the optical response of 
such a finite array is sufficiently converged to that of an 
infinite Ag-NPs array. Each Ag-NP is half-buried into the 
AAO layer with thickness t = 30 nm. A glass substrate is 
beneath the AAO layer. In addition, the refractive index of 
the bacterium, AAO film, and glass substate are taken as 1.3, 
1.78, and 1.46, respectively, and that of the Ag-NP [4] is 
between Ag-NP/AAO substrate and AAO substrate, we 
found that the role of Ag-NPs can be treated as an antenna 
array amplifing those non-evanescent signal to transmit to 
the far field. Since the LSPR is sensitive to the environment 
surrounding the NPs, the existence of a bacterium causes the 
refractive index changes above the Ag-NP/AAO substrate 
and thus distracting the scattered field distrbutions. This 
signal then effectively transmits to the far-field with the help 
of the antenna-liked  Ag-NPs array. 
respect to the z-axis of our structure, the RCS for θ from 
360° to 180° is the same with that for θ =  0° to 180°. As 
shown in Fig. 4(a) and (b), the large values of RCS ocurr at 
θ = 0° and θ = 180° regardless of the wavelength ranges. 
This is because the diameter of the Ag-NP is far beyond the 
wavelength, which satisfies the Rayleigh scattering conditon, 
so each Ag-NP can be treated as a dipole mainly radiating at 
the forward and backward directions. Moreover, by 
focusing on the RCS for the system within a bacterium 
residing above the Ag-NP/AAO substrate (red curve) in Fig. 
4(a), which represents the case in the range of LSPR, we 
can see that the RCS is slightly enhanced near θ = 120° ~ 
150° and decreases at θ= 180° compared with that for Ag-
NP/AAO substrate (black curve). On the other hand, the 
additive bacerium causes the RCS enhancement at θ = 0° 
and 180° for the Ag-NP/AAO substrate when the wavelengh 
is out of the LSPR range as shown in Fig. 4(b). For AAO 
substrate, the difference also dominately exhibits at θ = 0° 
and θ = 180°. Besides, we also examine the case for φ  = 
90° with θ varied from 0° to 180°, and the results are quite 
similar with the case under φ  = 0° (not shown).  
 
Fig. 5. (a) Within the range of LSPR, a bacterium among the Ag-
NP/AAO substrate causes more light to be scattered to the direction 
around θ = 120° ~ 150° and less light to be reflected. (b) For the 
case without LSPR, a bacterium among the Ag-NP/AAO substrate 
causes more light to be scattered at θ = 0° and 180°. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported in part by the National Science 
Council of the Republic of China under grants NSC100-
2628-M-002-008 and NSC100-2221-E-002-182-MY2, in 
part by the Excellent Research Projects of National Taiwan 
University under grant 10R80919-1, and in part by the 
Ministry of Education of the Republic of China under “The 
Aim of Top University Plan” grant. 
To illustrate these results more clearly, we summarize 
them in Fig. 5 with the solid arrow representing 
enhancement and dash arrow representing decay. As shown 
in Fig. 5, within the range of the LSPR of the AG-NPs, the 
existence of the bacterium causes more light to be scattered 
in the surrounding of the bacterium and less light to be 
reflected, which shows a good correspodence to the 
experimental image of the bacteria with a darker central part 
and bright surroundings. On the other hand, when the 
wavelength is out of the range of LSPR, the bacterium only 
causes more light to be scattered forward and backward. 
Moreover, by comparing the quatitative behavior of the RCS  
 
REFERENCES 
[1] K. A. Willets and R. P. Van Duyne, “Localized surface 
Plasmon resonance spectroscopy and sensing,” Annu. Rev. 
Phys. Chem., vol. 58, pp. 267–297, May 2007. 
[2] H.-H, Wang, C.-Y. Liu, S.-B. Wu, N.-W. Liu, C.-Y. Peng, T.-
H. Chan, C.-F. Hsu, J.-K. Wang and Y.-L. Wang, “Highly 
Raman-enhancing substrates based on silver nanoparticle 
arrays with tunable sub-10 nm gaps,” Adv. Mater., vol. 18, pp. 
491-495, 2006. 
0 50 100 150
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
 angle (θ)
R
C
S/
μm
2
 
 
AA trateO subs
a b m among
 A rate
acteriu
AO subst
Ag O substrate-NP/AA
a b m among
 Ag O substrate
ecteriu
-NP/AA [3] H.-H. Wang, T.-Y. Cheng, P. Sharma, F.-Y. Chiang, S. W.-Y. 
Chiu, J.-K. Wang and Y.-L. Wang, “Transparent Raman-
enhancing substrates for microbiological monitoring and in 
situ pollutant detection,”  Nanotech., vol. 22, p. 385702, 2011.  
[4] E. D. Palik, Handbook of Optical Constants of Solids. London, 
U.K.: Academic, 1985.   (a) 
[5] C. F. Bohren and D. R. Huffman, Absorption and Scattering 
of Light by Small Particles, Wiley, 1998.  
 
0 50 100 150
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
 angle (θ)
R
C
S/
μm
2
 
 
AAO substrate
a bacte
 AAO su [6] A. Taflove and S. C. Hagness, Computational 
Electrodynamics: The Finite-Difference Time-Domain 
Method, 3rd ed. Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2005. 
rium among
bstrate
Ag-NP/AAO substrate 
a bater
 Ag-NP
ium among
/AAO substrate
[7] S. A. Maier, Plasmonics: Fundamentals and Applications, 
New York, Springer, 2007. 
 
 (b) 
Fig. 4. The RCS for AAO substrates, Ag-NP/AAO substrates, and 
a bacterium resided on these two substrates at (a) 420 nm and (b) 
1080 nm. 
  
Fig. 3. The Re(Ez) distributions for the first three LSP modes (K = 1,2,3) 
with the inset indicated the induced charges. This figure refers to Figs. 
2(b) and 2(c) in [2]. 
and set the diameter of each NP to be 40 nm, the coupling 
between the surface EM modes and Au-NPs may create 
another channel for light to reach the resonator (Fig. 4(b)), 
while the LSP resonance of these Au-NPs would not be the 
main mechanism since the size of NPs is too small to excite 
the plasmonic resonance in the near IR range. The enhanced 
field confinement within the dielectric layer is especially 
obvious shown in the magnetic field. Fig. 4(c) displays the 
|Hx| distributions for an MDM and an NPs-assembled MDM, 
respectively, where the unsymmetrical field pattern gives us 
a clue that the great field enhancement is attributed to the 
random NPs, and therefore improving the absorbing 
efficiency of the resonator. 
Fig. 2. The |Hy| (the center panels) and Re(Hy) (the right panels) 
distributions for samples A–C. 
absent between the top-and-bottom resonators (not shown). 
In addition, two dips are seen in the range of 3–4 μm for 
each sample in Fig. 1(b). According to the dispersion 
relation (not shown), they correspond to the mixture of the 
second LSP (in the x-direction), the first z-directional Fabry-
Perot resonance, and the weak (+1) and (−1) order Au/air 
surface electromagnetic (EM) modes. On the other hand, 
only one dip is exhibited in the simulated spectrum (Fig. 
1(c)). Such difference may be due to that the spectra are 
measured when θ = 12°, while the simulated results are 
calculated by using a normal illumination. According to 
Todorov et al. [2], even order LSP modes are strictly 
forbidden under normal incidence because of no net 
resulting dipole. As schematically illustrated in Fig. 3, the 
induced charges cause a non-zero dipole moment oscillating 
with the incident wave for odd order modes. However, there 
is no net dipole moment for even order modes when θ = 0°. 
The coupling is allowed when the symmetry is broken under 
oblique incidence. Besides, the (+1) and (−1) order surface 
EM modes will converge to the same wavelength when kx = 
0 (under normal incidence). Therefore, the dip in the range 
of 3–4 μm in the simulated spectra corresponds to the 
mixture of the first z-directional Fabry-Perot resonance and 
the weak (+1) and (−1) order Au/air surface EM modes. 
 
Fig. 4. (a) The measured reflectance for a basic MDM, after depositing a 3-
nm-thick Au film on top of the MDM, and after the RTA process, 
respectively. The (b) |Ez| and (c) |Hx| for a MDM (left) and a NPs-
assembled MDM (right), respectively. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported in part by the National Science 
Council of the Republic of China under grants NSC100-
2221-E-002-182-MY2 and NSC102-2811-E-002-011, in part 
by the Excellent Research Projects of National Taiwan 
University under grant 102R89081, and in part by the 
Ministry of Education of the Republic of China under “The 
Aim of Top University Plan” grant. 
IV. NPS-ASSEBLED MDM 
Next, to achieve high emittance for practical use, the 
absorptions of the designed MDM resonators are expected 
to be as large as possible. The black curve shown in Fig. 4(a) 
displays the measured reflectance for a basic MDM. Then, a 
3-nm-thick gold layer is deposited above the device (red 
curve). After going through a rapid thermal anneal (RTA) 
process, the thin gold film is split into small pieces, thus 
resulting in clusters of randomly-distributed Au-NPs on the 
MDM surface (green curve). Instead of blocking light to 
penetrate to the MDM structure, the surface roughness 
caused by those Au-NPs may reduce the reflectance. In 
addition, according to the simulation results, where we use a 
random function to model the aggregation of these Au-NPs 
REFERENCES 
[1] J. A. Mason, S. Smith, and D. Wasserman, “Strong absorption 
and selective thermal emission from a midinfrared 
metamaterial,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 98, p. 241105 (2011). 
[2] Y. Todorov, L. Tosetto, J. Teissier, A. M. Andrews, P. Klang, 
R. Colombelli, I. Sagnes, G. Strasser and C. Sirtori, “Optical 
properties of metal-dielectric-metal microcavities in the THz 
frequency range,” Opt. Express 18, pp. 13886–13907 (2010). 
  
 
 
 2
筆者和鍾士勇同學、王芝宇同學、鄧君豪博士、王俊凱博士與陳中平教授合著的
“Investigation of Nanoelectromagnetics Problems Using the Multidomain Legendre 
Pseudospectral Time-Domain Method”論文，安排在8月9日上午11:00-11:20報告，內容為有
關我們應用精準的三維時域譜方法分析研究奈米電磁問題的結果，也屬於電漿子學範
疇。Prof. Tie Jun Cui問了電漿子結構大小極限的問題，英國的Prof. Yang Hao曾致力於有
限差分時域法增進材料接面近似準確度的研究，提出他的一些看法。 
研討會於8月9日中午閉幕，筆者搭10日的班機返國，於當晚飛抵桃園機場。 
 
（二）與會心得與建議 
 
本次研討會有好幾位筆者熟識的香港與大陸的傑出學者學者，很高興有機會能再次
同堂討論，瞭解他們的最新研究成果。成都的中國電子科技大學為大陸電磁研究的重鎮
之一，與該校的老師聊天，發現他們的博士生，單從政府獲得的津貼補助，不算研究計
畫可能有的另外補助，都已高出臺灣的博士生。兩岸情勢消長又一例，能不更警惕? 
 
（三）攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
1.  iWEM2012 Program，共45頁。 
2.  iWEM2012 Proceedings CD-ROM一片。 
 
 
Fig. 1: The mesh division, subdomains, and coordinates for the one-sphere 
case. 
   
                (a)                                     (b)                                    (c) 
Fig. 2: |Ex| profiles at respective peak wavelengths of extinction cross-section 
spectra for sphere radius 50 nm and spacing 10 nm under (a) kx with Ez 
polarization, (b) ky with Ex polarization, and (c) ky with Ez polarization. 
     
          (a)                                  (b)                                        (c) 
Fig. 3: (a) The unit-cell structure and (b) the designed subdomain division for 
the 2D array of dumbbell-shaped apertures perforated on a silver film. (c) 
PSTD simulated transmission spectra for three indexes for the material filling 
the apertures. 
 
3. LIGHT SCATTERING BY PLASMONIC NANOSHERES 
 
Using the PSTD method, we have simulated the 
electromagnetic-field profiles for scattering by a chain (along 
the x-direction) of different numbers of silver nanospheres by 
incident plane waves of different propagation directions (kx, ky, 
or kz) and polarizations (Ex or Ez). For the one-sphere and 
two-sphere cases, PSTD results have been found to agree very 
well with the analytical Mie theory and the multiple scattering 
method, respectively. For more number of spheres, the 
analytical formulation would become more involved, and 
numerical models such as the PSTD one become more useful. 
Fig. 2 shows one example of the PSTD calculation, where |Ex| 
profiles are illustrated for three different wave-
propagation/polarization situations at respective peak 
wavelengths of calculated extinction cross-section spectra. 
Strong electric fields in or around the spacing gaps are 
phenomena of particular interest. 
 
4. ENHANCED LIGHT TRANSMISSION SIMULATION 
 
The phenomenon of extraordinary transmission through 
periodically arranged sub-wavelength apertures in a metal 
film has attracted considerable interest in plasmonics research. 
Here we consider one interesting case of 2D array of 
dumbbell-shaped apertures [6], with the unit cell as shown in 
Fig. 3(a), for which the electric-field enhancement at the 
aperture apexes offers an application of sensing the refractive-
index change in the aperture. We had experience in designing 
subdomain division for analyzing dumbbell-shaped fiber 
waveguide with high accuracy using a pseudospectral 
frequency-domain waveguide mode solver [7]. And similar 
design is easily obtained here for the subdomain division in 
the aperture, as shown in Fig. 3(b). With the following 
parameters in the 100-nm-thick silver film: square-array 
periodicity of 425 nm, dumbbell width of 220 nm, half-
dumbbell diameter of 112.5 nm, glass substrate of index 1.5, 
and indexes 1.0, 1.05, and 1.1 for the material filling the 
apertures [6], the PSTD simulated transmission spectra for y-
polarized normally incident wave are presented in Fig. 3(c).   
 
5. CONCLUSION 
 
The multidomain Legendre PSTD method is demonstrated to 
be a useful tool for simulating nanoelectromagnetics 
problems with high accuracy. Two examples in plasmonics 
are presented: light scattering by multiple silver nanospheres 
and light transmission through periodically arranged sub-
wavelength dumbbell-shaped apertures in a silver film. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
This work was supported in part by the National Science 
Council of the Republic of China under grants NSC100-2628-
M-002-008 and NSC100-2221-E-002-182-MY2. The authors 
would like to thank the National Center for High-Performance 
Computing in Hsinchu, Taiwan, and the Academia Sinica 
Computing Center in Taipei, Taiwan, for providing useful 
computing resources. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] P. N. Prasad, Nanophotonics, John Wiley & Sons, 
Hoboken, NJ, 2004. 
[2] S. A. Maier, Plasmonics: Fundamentals and Applications, 
Springer, New York, 2007. 
[3] M. Moskovits, “Surface-enhanced spectroscopy,” Rev. 
Mod. Phys., vol. 57,  pp. 783–826, July 1985. 
[4] C. H. Teng, B. Y. Lin, H. C. Chang, H. C. Hsu, C. N. Lin, 
and K. A. Feng, “A Legendre pseudospectral penalty 
scheme for solving time-domain Maxwell’s equations,” J. 
Sci. Comput., vol. 36, pp. 351–390, September 2008. 
[5] S. Y. Chung, C. Y. Wang, C. H. Teng, C. P. Chen, and H. 
C. Chang, “Simulations of dielectric and plasmonic 
waveguide-coupled ring resonators using the Legendre 
pseudospectral time-domain method,” J. Lightwave 
Technol., vol. 30, pp. 1733–1742, June 1, 2012. 
[6] S. Iyer, S. Popov, and A. T. Friberg, “Impact of apexes 
on the resonance shift in double hole nanocavities,” Opt. 
Express, vol. 18, pp. 193–203, January 2010. 
[7] P. J. Chiang, C. L. Wu, C. H. Teng, C. S. Yang, and H. C. 
Chang, “Full-vectorial optical waveguide mode solvers 
using multidomain pseudospectral frequency-domain 
(PSFD) formulations,” IEEE J. Quantum Electron., vol. 
44, pp. 56–66, January 2008. 
  
 
 
(Networks), Signal Processing in Photonics Communications (SPPcom)等幾個Topical 
Meetings同時同會議地點舉行，合稱2013 Advanced Photonics Congress，會期為7月15日
至17日。IPR部分，在7月15日上午8點20分至30分有簡單的Opening Comments，然後分
兩平行場次研討，16日上午8點30分至10點則有共同的Plenary Session，而所有會議在16
日下午1點30分至3點有一共同的Poster Session。 
16日上午8:30至10:00的Joint Plenary Session由美國Oracle Labs的Dr. Ashok V. 
Krishnamoorthy演講“Brutally-efficient Photonics for Future Intra-system Communications”
以 及 美 國 University of Central Florida 的 Prof. Guifang Li 演 講 “Coherent Optical 
Communications and Beyond”。Prof. Li的演講相當精彩豐富，瞭解同調光通訊的新近發
展。三整天的研討，最多有五個平行場次。本次IPR共發表85篇論文，包括兩個Plenary 
talks，23篇邀請論文，44篇口頭報告論文與16篇壁報論文。筆者於15日主要參與
“Plasmonics,” “Numerical Simulation Techniques and Applications,” “Recent Developments 
in Silicon Photonics”三個場次。16日主要參與“Micro- and nano-Engineered Sensors I, II, 
III” 場次。 17 日主要參與 “Nanostructures,” “Workshop on Integrated Isolators II,” 
“Modulators and Sensors”三個場次。筆者和劉暄浩同學合著的“Leaky Surface Modes at an 
Interface Between Isotropic and Uniaxially Anisotropic Materials: Analytical Solution and 
Finite-Element Analysis”論文於16日下午1:30至3:00的Joint Poster Session中發表，報告我
們發展有限元素法數值程式分析研究較複雜的各向同性與各向異性介質接面之表面波與
可能之洩漏模態。 
16日中午12:30至1:30出席IPR的committee meeting，筆者與Dr. Valery Tolstikhin功成
卸任，依慣例Prof. Thomas Krauss與Prof. Michael Watts被同意擔任IPR 2014的General 
Chairs。 
IPR三天的議程於17日下午6時圓滿結束，筆者於18日飛紐約甘迺迪機場，轉半夜1:45
返台班機，於20日清晨飛抵桃園機場。 
 
（二）與會心得與建議 
 
去年的IPR2012在Colorado Springs舉行，開會地點較偏僻，與會者已比前年在加拿
大多倫多舉行少很多。本次研討會在IPR部分有約86位註冊與會者，又比去年的118位
少，波多黎各距離亞洲更遠，旅費更貴，更不利學生參與，此情況早可預期。前年來自
臺灣有8位以上，今年就只有筆者與臺大王維新教授。明年將在加州聖地牙哥舉行，地點
對參加人數回升將會有利。不過IPR的研討內容，包括nanophotonics與plasmonics的最新
 2
Leaky Surface Modes at an Interface Between
Isotropic and Uniaxially Anisotropic Materials:
Analytical Solution and Finite-Element Analysis
Hsuan-Hao Liu1 and Hung-chun Chang1,2
1Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics,
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C.
2Also with the Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering
and the Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University
E-mail: hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw
Abstract: Leaky surface waves are found to exist at an interface between isotropic material
with negative permittivity and uniaxially anisotropic material. Analytical solution is derived
for such waves, which is confirmed by the finite-element eigenmode analysis.
© 2013 Optical Society of America
OCIS codes: (130.2790) Guided waves; (160.1190) Anisotropic optical materials; (240.6690) Surface waves.
1. Introduction
D’yakonov predicted in 1988 the existence of a new type of surface wave at an interface between an isotropic dielectric
material and a uniaxial-birefringnet dielectric material with its optic axis falling in the plane of the interface [1], called
the D’yakonov wave [2, 3]. Related phenomena involving different materials have been continuously investigated
[2]. Li et al. numerically studied surface plasmon polaritons (SPPs) at the interface between a metal and a uniaxial
crystal [4]. In these studies, only surface modes with the field amplitudes decaying away from the interface in the
pure exponential manner were mostly concerned, i.e., the modes are of no loss, and such solutions might exist only in
some angular regime of the optic axis. In this paper, we provide possible leaky-mode solutions in addition to the pure
guided modes based on solving suitable characteristic equations. These analytical solutions are shown to excellently
agree with a finite-element (FE) eigenmode analysis. The FE eigenmode solver [5] was formulated using three field
components with suitable perfectly matched layers (PMLs), which has successfully been applied to solve guided and
leaky modes on planar optical waveguides with the core and cladding composed of uniaxially anisotropic materials,
such as those analyzed in [6].
2. Analytical analysis
We consider surface wave modes propagating in the z direction and guided by an interface, which is the x = 0 plane
in Fig. 1(a), between the isotropic material (x > 0) and the uniaxially anisotropic material (x < 0). The optic-axis
orientation is described by the spherical-coordinate angles φ and θ , as shown in Fig. 1(a). The index of refraction of
the isotropic material is denoted as nc and the ordinary and extraordinary indices of refraction of the uniaxial material
are denoted as no and ne, respectively. The corresponding relative permittivities are εc = n2c , εo = n2o, and εe = n2e . We
study the situation that φ = 90◦, and then the elements of the relative permittivity tensor for the x < 0 region are εxx =
n2xx = n
2
o, εxy = n
2
xy = 0, εxz = n2xz = 0, εyx = n2yx = 0, εyy = n2yy = n2o +(n2e −n2o)sin2 θ , εyz = n2yz = (n2e −n2o)sin θ cosθ ,
εzx = n2xz = 0, εzy = n2zy = (n2e −n2o)sinθ cosθ , and εzz = n2zz = n2o +(n2e −n2o)cos2 θ .
In the following analysis, we assume that εc is real and negative, εo and εe are real and positive, and |εc|> εe > εo, as
discussed in [4]. In the isotropic material, we write the trial solutions as Eyc(x) and Hyc(x). The transverse electric (TE)
mode trial solution is assumed to be Eyc(x) ≡ AT E exp(−κcx) and the transverse magnetic (TM) mode trial solution
is assumed to be Hyc(x) ≡ ATM exp(−κcx), where AT E and ATM are arbitrary constants. Similarly, In the anisotropic
material region, we write the trial solutions as Ey(x) = Eyo +Eye, where the subscripts o and e denote the ordinary and
the extraordinary components, respectively. The trial field is taken as Ey(x) ≡ Ao exp[κox] + Ae exp[κex] for guided-
mode solutions with ne > no, and as Ey(x)≡ Ao exp[κox]+Ae exp[ jκex] for leaky-mode solutions, where Ao and Ae are
arbitrary constants. These assumed solution forms would lead to the guided and leaky modes, respectively. Note that
−10 −5 0 5−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
PML←
region   
Fi
el
d 
am
pl
itu
de
 R
e[ 
η 0
H
y 
]
x position (µm)
θ =75°
(a)
−10 −5 0 5−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
PML←
region   
Fi
el
d 
am
pl
itu
de
 R
e[ 
η 0
H
y 
]
x position (µm)
θ =80°
(b)
−10 −5 0 5−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
PML←
region   
Fi
el
d 
am
pl
itu
de
 R
e[ 
η 0
H
y 
]
x position (µm)
θ =85°
(c)
−10 −5 0 5
−0.05
0
0.05 PML←
region   
Fi
el
d 
am
pl
itu
de
 R
e[ 
E y
 
]
x position (µm)
θ =75°
(d)
−10 −5 0 5
−0.05
0
0.05 PML←
region   
Fi
el
d 
am
pl
itu
de
 R
e[ 
E y
 
]
x position (µm)
θ =80°
(e)
−10 −5 0 5
−0.05
0
0.05 PML←
region   
Fi
el
d 
am
pl
itu
de
 R
e[ 
E y
 
]
x position (µm)
θ =85°
(f)
Fig. 2: η0Hy versus x profiles for θ = (a) 75◦, (b) 80◦, and (c) 85◦, and Ey versus x profiles for θ = (d) 75◦, (e) 80◦,
and (f) 85◦, for the case of Figs. 1(b) and 1(c) obtained from the FE analysis.
4. Conclusion
It is found that for an interface between an isotropic material with negative permittivity and a uniaxially anisotropic
dielectric material with the optic axis falling in the interface plane, the leaky mode propagating along the interface
can exist in addition to the known pure guided mode. Analytical solutions for both the guided and leaky modes are
confirmed by the FE eigenmode analysis.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported in part by the National Science Council of the Republic of China under grant NSC 101-2221-
E-002-147-MY2, in part by the Excellent Research Projects of National Taiwan University under grant 10R80919-1,
and in part by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of China under ”The Aim of Top University Plan” grant.
References
1. M. I. D’yakonov, “New type of electromagnetic wave propagating at an interface,” Sov. Phys. JETP 67, 714–716
(1988).
2. O. Takayama, L.-C. Crasovan, S. K. Johansen, D. Mihalache, D. Artigas and L. Torner, “D’yakonov surface
waves: A review,” Electromagnetics 28, 126–145 (2008)
3. J. A. Polo Jr. and A. Lakhtakia, “Surface electromagnetic waves: A review,” Laser Photonics Rev. 5, 234–246
(2011).
4. R. Li, C. Cheng, F. F. Ren, J. Chen, Y. X. Fan, J. Ding, and H. T. Wang, “Hybridized surface plasmon polaritons
at an interface between a metal and a uniaxial crystal,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 92, 141115 (2008).
5. H. H. Liu and H. C. Chang, “Solving leaky modes on a dielectric slab waveguide involving materials of arbitrary
dielectric anisotropy with a finite-element formulation,” submitted for publication.
6. D. Marcuse and I. P. Kaminow, “Modes of a symmetric slab optical waveguide in birefringent media, Part II:
Slab with coplanar optical axis,” IEEE J. Quantum Electron. QE-15, 92–101 (1979).
7. J. Hu and C. R. Menyuk, “Understanding leaky modes: slab waveguide revisited,” Adv. Opt. Photon. 1, 58–106
(2009).
8. R. D. Kekatpure, A. C. Hryciw, E. S. Barnard, and M. L. Brongersma, “Solving dielectric and plasmonic
waveguide dispersion relations on a pocket calculator,” Opt. Express 17, 24112–24129 (2009).
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張宏鈞 計畫編號：100-2221-E-002-182-MY2 
計畫名稱：幾種奈米光電中光波散射與傳輸問題的電磁分析研究(2) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 2 2 100%  
研討會論文 9 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 4 4 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 6 4 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 5 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
