1 INTRODUCTION
Forecasting the diffusion of new product is
always popular in marketing issues (Bass,
1963, 1969; Srinivasan, 1986). Traditional
diffusion models of new product are
quantitative descriptions (Bayus et al.,
2000). However, in this study, we try to
establish the qualitative descriptions of new
product diffusion. In this paper, we use the
affinity set to find the key attributes
influencing the marketing strategy of bio
product companies (Larbani and Chen,
2006). Bio-products are now at the
beginning of product life cycle (Khalil,
2000), various bio-companies surely have
various marketing characteristics: such as,
different costs, different ways of getting
raw materials, different channels,…, so that
to achieve their final product oriented
strategy , i.e., satisfying their customers. In
this study, we view these marketing
characteristics as input variables, and the
product oriented strategy as out variable to
explore/summarize the relationship between
multiple inputs (causes) and one output
(consequence).
This paper is organized as follows: in
Section 2, we discuss about our method:
Data Mining by Rough Set and by Affinity
Set. In Section 3, an actual example of
fifty-five bio companies in Taiwan is used
to validate our model and resolution
process. Finally, the conclusions and
recommendations are available in section 4.
2 RESEARCH FRAMWORK
In this section, we briefly introduce the
research framwork.
2.1 Data Mining on the Bio-Product
Data mining is a comprehensive technology
which combines information technology,
analysis technique and industry know-how.
According to this technology, user can
discover modeling of hidden patterns in
large volumes of data and transform such
data into information and even knowledge.
The business applications in data mining
include profitability analysis, customer
attraction, market segmentation, asset risk
management, and cross selling. This study
applies data mining techniques in
pharmaceutical product life cycle. Data
mining creates information assets that
bio-companies can leverage to achieve their
strategic objects.
The formation of aging society in
Taiwan became notable since 1994, and the
national health policy has been carried out
of since 1995.consequently, the
pharmaceutical company can fully exploit
data mining technique to discover market
trends and thus to further adopt appropriate
marketing strategies.
2.2 Rough Set
Rough set theory was proposed by Prof.
Pawlak (Pawlak, 1982). Since then we have
witnessed systematic, world-wide growth of
interest in rough set theory and its
applications. The theory of rough sets deals
with the classificatory analysis of data
tables. The data can be acquired from
measurements or from human experts. The
main purpose of the rough set analysis is
the induction of approximations of concepts
from the acquired data. The classical rough
set analysis is based on the indiscernibility
relation that describes indistinguishability
of objects. The concepts are represented by
their lower and upper approximations. In
applications, rough sets theory focuses on
approximate representing of knowledge
derivable from data. It leads to significant
results in the areas including, e.g., data
mining, machine learning, finance, industry,
multimedia, medicine, control theory,
and an affinity set, respectively. Assume
that the affinity of e with respect to A
depends on some variable w that takes its
values in a traditional set W. In order to
make the variable w appear in the affinity
definition between e and A, we introduce
the following affinity
e
AM ( . ): I ×W [0,1]
(t,w)  eAM (t,w)
The value eAM (t,w) expresses the degree of
affinity between element e and A at time t
with respect to w.
Remark 2.1 Thus, depending on the
problem at hand, the decision maker can
use Definitions 2.2 or 2.16 of affinity
between an element e and an affinity set A.
When the decision maker is interested in
studying the behavior of elements V with
respect to an affinity set A at a fixed time, t
can be dropped from the function defining
affinity between any element e and A i.e.
We can write eAM (w) instead of
e
AM (t,w).
3 APPLICATIONS AND RESULTS
In this section, we use the affinity model
and rough model to compare their
reasoning performances within fifty-five
bio-tech companies in Taiwan. First, we
propose face-to-face interview with the
managers of these companies. After that, we
collect 8 attributes: (a) Manufacturing cost
ratio in a retailing price, (b) Type of
channels, (c) Number of competitors, (d)
Cost of packing; (e) Cost of promotion, (f)
Ingredient, (g) Method of getting raw
materials and (h) Product-orientated, to run
our models. The classification way is
explained in Table 1. The last one attribute
of product-orientated strategy is viewed as
the output/consequence variable, the
remained seven attributes are viewed as the
input/cause variables. Thus, we can use
rough set modelling or affinity set
modelling to explore the cause-consequence
relationship within these data.
Table 1: Classification of Attributes
Attribute Data Type Qualitative Description
Mfg. cost ratio in a retailing price (A1) Numeric 1:1~1:5(0),1:5~1:10(1),
1:10~1:15(2)
Type of channels (A2) Discrete Doctor (0), Clinic (1),
Drugstore (2), All of them(3)
Number of competitor (A3) Numeric 1~10(0),10~20(1),20~30(2),
Over than 30 (3)
Cost of packing (A4) Numeric 300~3,000(0), 3,000~6,000 (1),6,000~
30,000(2),over than 30,000 (3) (USD)
Cost of promotion: includingsalesman’s bonus (A5) Numeric less than $30,000 (0),$ 30,000
to $60,000 (1),over than $60,000 (2)
Ingredient (A6) Discrete Chinese medicine (0),Western
medicine (1), Both of them(2)
Method of getting raw materials (A7) Discrete Outsourcing (0), Own-Manufacture
(1)
Product-orientated Strategy (A8) Discrete Existed Product (0), New Product (1)
