目　  錄 
 
報告內容　 　 　 　 　 　 　 　 　 　 　   
I. Introduction 　 　 　 　 　 　 　 　 　 　 　  
II. Design and Simulation    
III. Fabrication  
IV. Characterization & Discussion 
V. Publications 
計畫成果自評 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the fusion with octagonal QPC micro-cavity and the micro-disk lasers, we design a new 
cavity geometry formed by single defect in octagonal QPCs as shown in Fig. 2 (a). The 8 
nearest neighboring air holes are shifted outward to satisfy the constructive interference 
condition to form standing waves at the cavity edge. The calculated mode profile is shown 
in Fig. 2 (c). It shows a strong-confined WGM profile with azumital number four. This 
mode is sustained in the cavity not only by photonic band-gap (PBG) effect but also by total 
internal reflection (TIR) effect. In addition, it is worth to mention that the cavity size is 
1.2µm, smaller than the diffraction limitation in micro-disk lasers. 
 
       
(a).                                (b). 
Fig. 1 (a) Schematic of OQPC micro-cavity formed by 9 missing air holes. (b) Defect 
modes named K=0, K=1, K=2, and K=4. 
 
 
Fig. 2 (a) Schematic of original (position A) and modified (position B) OQPC single-defect 
micro-cavity. (b) Calculated dipole mode and (c) calculated WGM profiles of these two 
micro-cavities. 
 
We also investigate the dodecagonal (12-fold) quasi-periodic photonic crystal (DQPC) 
micro-cavity formed by 7 missing air holes (D2) as shown in Fig. 1 (a). Comparing with 
OQPC, DQPC shows a more circular Brillioun zone, which implies the more efficient PBG 
further transferred to MQWs by inductively-coupled plasma (ICP) dry-etching with 
CH4/Cl2/H2 mixed gas at 150 . At℃  last, the membrane structure is formed by selective wet 
etching with the mixture of HCl and H2O at 0 . The top℃ -view and side-view scanning 
electron microscope (SEM) pictures of different QPC micro-cavities designed in section II 
are shown in Fig. 4 (a)-(c). 
 
 
    
Fig. 4 Top-view and side-view SEM pictures of (a) OQPC D2 micro-cavity, (b) OQPC 
modified single-defect micro-cavity, and (c) DQPC D2 micro-cavity. 
 
 
IV. Characterization & Discussion 
 
In characterization, the micro-cavities are optically pumped by an 845 nm laser diode 
with focused pump spot size 1.5 µm in diameter. To avoid the thermal problems, the pump 
condition is set at 0.5% duty cycle with 200 KHz repetition rate. The emitted light is 
collected by a multi-mode fiber and its spectrum is detected by an optical spectrum analyzer 
(OSA) with 0.05 nm spectral resolution. 
larger post size, there would be lower electrical resistance and faster thermal transition 
compared with smaller one. Thus, lower threshold voltage and better heat dissipation can be 
expected. 
 
We also compare the lasing spectra with and without the central air-hole. We fabricate 
two
In order to achieve the target of promising devices in ultra-dense integrated photonic 
circ
 
 devices with similar lattice parameters, one is with the central air-hole and the other is 
not. The measured lasing spectra in dB scale are shown in Fig. 7. One can see that the side 
mode is greatly reduced and the side-mode suppression-ratio (SMSR) increases from 25dB 
to larger than 30dB after adding a central air-hole. Besides, also shown in Fig. 7, the lasing 
mode is not affected significantly by the added central air-hole. We believe that similar 
results can be obtained for the central post case. This implies that this modified OQPC 
single-defect micro-cavity design is a promising structure for electrical injection with larger 
central post size tolerance. 
 
uit, we also fabricate modified OQPC single-defect micro-cavity arrays with different 
lattice periods from 8 to 3. The plot of lasing threshold versus number of cladding lattice 
periods is shown in Fig. 8. The threshold of OQPC micro-cavity with eight lattice periods is 
0.71 mW and the lasing wavelength is 1454 nm. In Fig. 8, the thresholds are almost the 
same when the number of lattice periods is larger than six. Although the threshold increases 
when the number of lattice periods is smaller than six, the threshold with four lattice periods 
is 0.95 mW, which is only 36% increase compared to that with eight lattice periods. With 
four cladding lattice periods, the device size is only 3.5 µm × 3.5 µm as shown in the inset 
SEM picture of Fig. 8, which is a very condensed device size ever reported. Lasing action is 
not always observed when the number of lattice periods is reduced to three. We also 
fabricate triangular lattice PC micro-cavity with similar cavity size formed by seven missing 
air holes (D2 cavity) for comparison. As shown in Fig. 8, the thresholds of triangular lattice 
PC D2 micro-cavities with eight, six, and four cladding lattice periods are 0.65 mW, 0.9 
mW, and 1.48 mW, respectively. And the lasing wavelength is near 1560 nm, which aligns 
better with the gain peak of MQWs, leading to a smaller threshold of triangular lattice PC 
D2 micro-cavity with eight lattice periods than that of OQPC micro-cavity. For the number 
of lattice periods below seven, one can see that the thresholds of OQPC micro-cavities are 
much lower than that of triangular lattice PC D2 micro-cavity even the lasing wavelength of 
the former is much farther away from the gain peak of MQWs. In addition, the threshold of 
triangular lattice PC D2 micro-cavity increases about 130% from eight periods to four 
periods, which is much larger than the 36% of OQPC micro-cavities.  
 
 
Fig. 8 Plot of lasing threshold versus number of cladding lattice periods. There is only 36% 
increase in threshold of OQPC micro-cavity when the number of lattice periods is reduced 
from eight to four, which is much smaller than the 130% of triangular lattice photonic 
crystal D2 micro-cavity. The inset shows the SEM image of the OQPC micro-cavity with 
four lattice periods and very condensed size of 3.5 µm × 3.5 µm. 
 
In the photoluminescence (PL) measurements of DQPC D2 micro-cavity laser, the 
micro-cavity is optically pulse-pumped at room temperature by the same pump condition. 
The L-L curve and typical lasing spectrum of DQPC D2 micro-cavity are shown in Fig. 9 (a) 
and (b).We obtain the ultra-low threshold 0.15 mW of DQPC D2 micro-cavity from the L-L 
curve and its FWHM is 0.15 nm at 1572 nm lasing wavelength. We also fabricate PC D2 
micro-cavity laser with triangular lattice by the same process and on the same wafer for 
comparisons. Its L-L curve and SEM picture are shown in Fig. 9 (a) and its inset. The 
threshold of PC D2 micro-cavity laser with single-mode lasing is 0.6 mW and its FWHM is 
around 0.3 nm at a similar lasing wavelength, which both indicate the better performance of 
DQPC lasers resulted from the more uniform and efficient confinement provided by the high 
symmetric Brillouin zone of quasi-lattice and the presence of WGM. Besides, the threshold 
of DQPC D2 micro-cavity laser is also lower than the 0.3 mW of modified single-defect 
micro-cavity laser with lower symmetry OQPCs. 
 
 
 
Fig. 10 (a) Illustration of two variation regions, the 12 nearest air-holes (denoted by red 
circles, region-A) and the outer air-holes (denoted by blue circles, region-B) in DQPC D2 
micro-cavity. The mode distortions of these two cases with the same variation degree 5% 
are also shown. (b) Lasing spectra of devices with different variation degrees in region-A 
and region-B. Lasing wavelength variations for the region-A and region-B cases are 19 nm 
and 2.5 nm, which show strong mode dependence on the 12 nearest air-holes. 
 
 
V. Publications 
 
(I)  Journals 
 
1. P. T. Lee, T. W. Lu, F. M. Tsai, and T. C. Lu, “Investigation on Whispering 
Gallery Mode Dependence on Cavity Geometry of Quasi-Periodic Photonic 
Crystal,” Appl. Phys. Lett. (2006) (Accepted for Publication) 
2. P. T. Lee, T. W. Lu, F. M. Tsai, T. C. Lu, and H. C. Kuo, 
“Whispering-Gallery-Mode of Modified Octagonal Quasi-Periodic Photonic 
Crystal Single-Defect Micro-Cavity and its Side-Mode Reduction,” Appl. Phys. 
Lett. 88, 201104 (2006) 
3. W. Kuang, J. R. Cao, T. Yang, S. J. Choi, P. T. Lee, J. D. O’Brien, and P. D. 
Dapkus, “Classification of modes in suspended membrane, 19 missing holes 
photonic crystal micro-cavities,” J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, 22, pp.1092-1099 (2005) 
4. J. R. Cao, W. Kuang, S. J. Choi, P. T. Lee, J. D. O’Brien, and P. D. Dapkus, 
“Threshold dependence on the spectral alignment between the quantum-well gain 
peak and the cavity resonance in InGaAsP photonic crystal lasers,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 
83, 4107 (2003). 
