 I 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
□期中進度報告 
☑期末報告 
 
運用於桶裝瓦斯殘氣之揮發裝置 
 
 
計畫類別：☑個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100－2622－E－233－002－CC3 
執行期間：100 年 11 月 1 日至 101 年 10 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：大華技術學院機電工程研究所 
 
計畫主持人：杜鳳棋 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 
 
 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另含下列出國報告，共   0   份： 
□移地研究心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，☑一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  11  月  11  日 
附件一 
 III 
摘要 
台灣地區使用桶裝瓦斯的家庭約有340萬戶以上，數量遠高於天然氣的家庭用戶，由於使用桶裝瓦
斯會有存底殘氣的問題，影響廣大消費者的權益至深且鉅。本計畫提出一種「桶裝瓦斯殘氣揮發裝置」，
主要設有一帶體可圈繞於瓦斯桶身下方，帶體的兩端分別設有磁鐵，透過磁鐵吸力可使帶體緊束固定。
帶體的內側設有電熱元件，使用撓性導線連接於控制盒；控制盒設有壓力感測元件，可用以監測瓦斯
桶內壓力。當桶內之瓦斯使用到低某一程度時，壓力降會降低至某一值，藉由控制盒之開關的開啟使
電熱元件導電加熱。經由本計畫的實驗結果發現，當電熱元件輸入的電功率為32.4 W、57.6 W及90 W
時，錶壓力分別為原來桶內壓力的1.35、 1.72及2.15倍，意即增加幅度分別達到35.1%, 71.6%及115.3%。
由此看來，本計畫提出之裝置，足以使瓦斯桶內增壓，促使瓦斯殘氣得以完全揮發使用，以免除瓦斯
殘留於桶內。 
 
關鍵詞：桶裝瓦斯、殘氣、揮發裝置。 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
There’s over 3.4 million families use cylinder gas in Taiwan, and it’s much higher than families which 
use liquefied natural gas. It’s the problem that the gas will store at the bottom of the cylinder become the 
residual liquid, and this problem affects interests of mass consumer. In this study, a newly designed device is 
presented for solving the residual liquid. It will increase the pressure inside the cylinder, promoting the 
residual liquid to evaporate in case the residual liquid store at the bottom of cylinder. A Five-kilogram 
cylinder is used in the study. The results show that when the input electric power is 32.4 W, 57.6 W, or 90 W, 
the gauge pressure is 1.35, 1.72, and 2.15 times higher, respectively, than the initial pressure inside the 
cylinder, indicating increases of 35.1%, 71.6%, and 115.3%. It allows the liquefied petroleum gas to be fully 
used up without leaving behind residual liquid in the four seasons. The volatilized device promotes liquefied 
petroleum gas utilization and reduces unnecessary financial loss. The consumers can utilize the gas to the 
maximum and save some costs. 
 
Keywords: Cylinder gas, Residual liquid, Volatilized device. 
 2 
user and his/her properties, but also to the welfare of the society. There are growing concerns over energy 
resource issues currently and it is foreseen that such concerns will continue to mount in the future as the price 
of energy resources rise continuingly in the world. It is worth our time and effort to find ways to use up the 
entire content of a gas cylinder and not have residual liquid [5,6]. 
The volatilized device proposed in this study is safe and can effectively vaporize the residual liquid. This 
is good news to the consumers as they can maximize the cylinder gas and minimize expenses. To the vendors, 
this can reduce risks and danger when transporting and storing returned gas cylinders. The gas itself is not 
harmful but can cause disastrous events in the event of negligence. Residual liquid in gas cylinder is 
relatively hazardous and the public should be educated about the characteristics of residual liquid to prevent 
accidents from happening. However, the key is to eliminate the existence of residual liquid. 
2. Materials and Methods 
The experimental device proposed in this study is shown in Figure 1. The core of the experiment is the 
volatilized device illustrated in Figure 2. The volatilized device consists of 4 parts; namely the strip 
packaging unit (#1), the electric heating unit (#2), the pressure measuring unit (#3), and the control unit (#4). 
The main part of the strip packaging unit is a waterproof canvas belt (#11), affixed with N pole (#12) and S 
pole (#13) magnets at both ends respectively. The canvas belt is tightly wrapped around the cylinder. The 
electric heating unit is a heating belt (#21). The inside of the belt is connected to a temperature control switch. 
The heating unit is made of silicon rubber heater of 24 V, 120 W, and size of 120 x 600 mm. The flexible 
heating plate can be tightly stitched to the belt. The heating plate is connected to the control unit with a 
flexible wire (#22). The control unit is then linked to the power plug (#24) with another flexible wire (#23). 
 
Figure 1. Experimental apparatus 
The pressure measuring unit (#3) is a digital pressure gauge (#31) installed on the cylinder head. It 
measures the pressure inside the cylinder and sends the reading to the control unit via the pressure signal 
transmission line (#32). When the residual liquid in the cylinder becomes relatively low and the pressure 
detected by the pressure gauge falls below a certain value, the pressure signal processing unit (#43) in the 
 4 
I
V
R   (1) 
where, the proportionality constant (R) is the resistance measured in Ohm (Ω). Actual measurement shows 
that the resistance of the heating plate is 10 Ω. The other line in Figure 3 represents the input electric power 
(Pe). 
 
Figure 3. Relationships between I, Pe and V for electric heating unit 
According to the Joule`s law, 
Pe = V．I (2) 
where, Pe is measured in watt (W). When there is resistive or linear load, the Ohm’s law may be integrated 
into Equation (2): 
R
V
=RI=P
2
2
e  (3) 
The actual measurement of electric power is compared with the theoretical value and the variation 
between the two is within ±1.6%. It is shown in the Figure 3 that the higher the voltage, the higher the input 
electric power is; and the higher the voltage, the steeper the line is. At V = 15.81 V, the electric power rises to 
25 W. This is an important parameter for the selection of alternative energy source in the future. This 
parameter is especially notable when considering solar energy as an energy source, for the electric power of 
the solar cell has to be taken into consideration. 
Experiment findings show that the higher the input voltage, the higher the input electric power is. The 
temperature of the heating plate also rises faster and higher accordingly. Figure 4 shows that at input voltage 
of 6 V, it takes 1018 seconds for the temperature to rise to 30.9°C, a mere 3.5°C of increase. The heat 
generated by the heating plate reaches the inside of the cylinder through the steel cylinder itself. During this 
process, much of the heat is absorbed by the steel barrel, while some heat is dissipated into the surrounding. 
 6 
 
Figure 5. Variation of dimensionless temperatures for different electric power 
According to the ideal gas law, changes in temperature will directly alter the gas density and pressure, as 
shown in the below equation: 
TRρ=P o  (4) 
where, P is the absolute pressure, ρ is the density, Ro is the gas constant, and T is the absolute temperature (K). 
In standard air, Ro = 0.2869 kJ/kg.K. With equation (4), the pressure inside the cylinder under different 
temperatures can be calculated. The vapor pressure of propane and butane mixture inside a gas cylinder under 
different temperatures can also be estimated. 
When the volatilized device is powered and starts to heat up, the heat passes through the steel cylinder 
via heat conduction and is transferred to the fluid inside the cylinder via heat convection. When part of the 
fluid inside the cylinder is heated, its volume expands and its density reduces. It will gradually rise and the 
surrounding fluid which has lower temperature and higher density will take its place. Such fluid will also be 
heated and rise and the surrounding fluid will take its place. The cycle continues and the heat is transferred to 
the entire cylinder by the flow of the fluid. This natural convection effect causes temperature variation in the 
cylinder. As shown in Figure 4, the thermocouple placed at the upper part of the cylinder (T2) obviously 
measures a higher temperature than the thermocouple at the lower part of the cylinder (T3). To simplify the 
calculation of pressure inside the cylinder, it is assumed that the liquid density is homogeneous. The pressure 
inside the cylinder is calculated with Tm, which is the average of T2 and T3. Therefore, 
2
3T+2T
=Tm  
According to the ideal gas law, once the volatilized device is activated, the pressure inside the cylinder 
will begin to rise. Values measured in Figure 4 can be placed directly into equation (4) to calculate the air 
pressure variation in the cylinder. It is assumed that the air density is a fixed value (ρ@25℃ = 1.184 kg/m
3
) [7]. 
In Figure 6, the vertical coordinate represents the gauge pressure (Pg), measured in kg/cm
2
. The horizontal 
 8 
energy as an alternative energy source in the future, it would be wise to select solar cells with electric power 
of 15 W to 25 W. 
 
Figure 7. Dependences of the gauge pressure on the input electric power for empty cylinder 
It is worth noting that although the vertical coordinates in Figures 6 and 7 represent gauge pressure 
measures in kg/cm
2
, the two sets of values are different by approximately 200 times. Under a particular 
temperature, gas (50% propane + 50% butane) responds more quickly to temperature variation than air. This 
indicates that the heating belt designed by this study can markedly increase the pressure of the cylinder and 
can therefore efficiently solve the residual liquid problem of the gas cylinders. 
4. Conclusions 
This study designed an innovative volatilized device to solve the residual liquid problem of gas 
cylinders. Five-kilogram cylinders are used in the study. Findings show that when the input electric power is 
32.4 W, 57.6 W, or 90 W, the gauge pressure is 1.35, 1.72, and 2.15 times higher, respectively, than the initial 
pressure inside the cylinder, indicating increases of 35.09%, 71.59%, and 115.31%. The volatilized device is 
a simple structured device that can be installed directly to the outer body of the steel cylinder. It allows the 
LPG to be fully used up without leaving behind residual liquid in the four seasons. This promotes LPG 
utilization and reduces unnecessary financial loss. The consumers can utilize the gas to the maximum and 
save some costs. The vendors, on the other hand, can enjoy minimized risks when transporting and storing 
the returned gas cylinders. 
Although Taiwan is among the countries which offer the lowest gas prices in the world, it is a country 
highly dependent on the import of energy resources. The utilization of energy sources should be maximized 
while energy-saving methods should be promoted and sought. All returned gas cylinders contain residual 
liquid of about 2% in the summer and as much as 20% in the winter. The residual liquid is a financial loss to 
the users, and this may result in a substantial amount in the long run. To solve this problem, this study has 
designed a method to solve the residual liquid problem of gas cylinders, which is beneficial to both the 
consumers and the vendors. If commercialized, this product is expected to have a rather huge market 
 10 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
☑ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：☑已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：☑已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ☑無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
 Feng-Chyi Duh, Investigation of the volatilized effects for residual liquid in 
cylinder gas, Journal of Engineering Technology and Education, Vol. 9, No. 
3, pp. 281-289, Sep. 2012. 
 杜鳳棋、林正元，桶裝瓦斯殘氣揮發裝置(A volatilized device for residual 
gas of cylinder gas)，中華民國新型專利，M418214，2011/12/11。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值 
台灣地區使用桶裝瓦斯的家庭約有 340 萬戶以上，數量遠高於天然氣的家庭用戶，由於
使用桶裝瓦斯會有存底殘氣的問題，影響廣大消費者的權益至深且鉅。本計畫提出一種
「桶裝瓦斯殘氣揮發裝置」，主要設有一帶體可圈繞於瓦斯桶身下方，帶體的兩端分別
設有磁鐵，透過磁鐵吸力可使帶體緊束固定。帶體的內側設有電熱元件，使用撓性導線
連接於控制盒；控制盒設有壓力感測元件，可用以監測瓦斯桶內壓力。當桶內之瓦斯使
用到低某一程度時，壓力降會降低至某一值，藉由控制盒之開關的開啟使電熱元件導電
加熱，進而使瓦斯桶內增壓，促使瓦斯殘氣得以完全揮發使用，以免除瓦斯殘留於桶內。 
我們相信從使用方式、能源種類、安全性、便利性、技術性及效率等多面向的評估下，
本作品將可使桶裝瓦斯的殘氣有效、安全的揮發，具有極佳的競爭力。本創作具備安全、
有效的氣化殘留液態瓦斯之目的，對於消費者而言，可達到充分的使用瓦斯而節省荷包；
對於業者來說，可避免回收運送過程及存放瓦斯桶的危險。 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
附件二 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 運用於桶裝瓦斯殘氣之揮發裝置
計畫主持人: 杜鳳棋
計畫編號: 100-2622-E-233-002-CC3 學門領域: 能源科技 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 運用於桶裝瓦斯殘氣之揮發裝置
(英文) A Volatilized Device for Residual Gas of Cylindrical Container
成果歸屬機構
大華學校財團法人大華科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
杜鳳棋,林正元
技術說明
(中文) 台灣地區使用桶裝瓦斯的家庭約有340萬戶以上，數量遠高於天然氣的家庭用戶，
由於使用桶裝瓦斯會有存底殘氣的問題，影響廣大消費者的權益至深且鉅。本計
畫提出一種「桶裝瓦斯殘氣揮發裝置」，主要設有一帶體可圈繞於瓦斯桶身下方，
帶體的兩端分別設有磁鐵，透過磁鐵吸力可使帶體緊束固定。帶體的內側設有電
熱元件，使用撓性導線連接於控制盒；控制盒設有壓力感測元件，可用以監測瓦
斯桶內壓力。當桶內之瓦斯使用到低某一程度時，壓力降會降低至某一值，藉由
控制盒之開關的開啟使電熱元件導電加熱，進而使瓦斯桶內增壓，促使瓦斯殘氣
得以完全揮發使用，以免除瓦斯殘留於桶內。 
(英文) This project proposes a volatilized device for residual gas of cylindrical container. It 
mainly has a waterproof canvas and can be circled at the bottom of the cylinder. There are 
magnets at two ends of this device so it can be tied on barrel tightly. The electrical 
heating element is set inside the waterproof canvas which uses flexible wire to connect 
the control box. Control box has pressure detecting element and it can detect the pressure 
inside the cylinder. When the gas is used till lower than a level, the pressure may also 
lower and reach a level. The switch of control box will turn on at the time, and the 
cylinder gas will be heated by the electrical heating element which is connected to control 
box. It will increase the pressure inside the cylinder, promoting the residual gas to 
evaporate in case the residual gas store at the bottom of cylinder.
產業別 熱能供應業
技術/產品應用範圍 能源科技
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
具專利性
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
