 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
無線感測網路之資料聚集 
Data Aggregation for Wireless Sensor Networks 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2218－E－324－002 
執行期限：96 年 1 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：朱鴻棋    朝陽科技大學網路與通訊研究所 
計畫參與人員：徐亦霆、賴勇勳、李忠杰、王偉凱 
   朝陽科技大學網路與通訊研究所 
 
一、中文摘要  
  無 線 感 測 網 路 (wireless sensor 
networks)的發展，使得在軍事、農業、商
業等各種用途中廣泛的被使用。感測節點
的主要功能在偵測環境中特定的事物，並
將所獲得的數據收集後傳回後端的資料收
集節點(sink node)或控制中心。然而，長時
間的大量資料傳輸將造成感測節點電力耗
盡而失去功能。這是因為感測節點在能
源、計算能力與通訊頻寬上的限制。因此，
資料聚集的機制是可以延長感測節點壽命
的方法之一。在本計畫中，我們提出一個
無線感測網路的資料聚集路由機制。所提
出的方法是利用地理位置資訊來將有興趣
的區域分割成八個子區域。將虛擬路徑
(virtual path)的技術與兩相鄰節點最短路徑
的概念應用至資料聚集的路由機制之中。
並考量系統的彈性，虛擬連結(virtual link)
的路由可以應用其他適合在無線感測網路
上的路由機制來完成。其中虛擬路徑是藉
由整合虛擬連結而成。本計畫所完成的是
一個適合無線感測網路的簡單、模組化、
低頻寬與低耗能的方法。 
 
關鍵詞：無線感測網路、感測節點、分類、
資料聚集、省電 
 
Abstract 
As the progress of wireless sensor 
networks, it can be widely used in military, 
agriculture, commerce, and so on. The major 
function of sensor nodes is that it should 
gather and process the sensed data and 
transmitted them to the sink node. However, 
a large number of data transmissions for a 
long period of time might cause sensor node 
to lose its functionality. This is because 
sensor nodes have the restriction of energy, 
computing capability, and communication 
bandwidth. Therefore, data aggregation 
mechanism is one of possible solutions to 
prolong the life time of sensor nodes. In this 
project, we present a routing scheme for data 
aggregation in wireless sensor networks. The 
proposed method utilizes the geographic 
information to divide the interesting area into 
eight clusters. Using the concept of virtual 
path and shortest distance between two 
adjacent source nodes, the proposed method 
provides a routing path for data aggregation. 
For consideration of system flexibility, the 
proposed method can apply other suitable 
wireless routing method to achieve the 
routing of virtual link. With combination of 
virtual links, we can find a virtual path for 
data aggregation. This is a simple, modular, 
low bandwidth utilization and 
energy-efficient scheme that is suitable for 
wireless sensor networks. 
 
Keywords: Wireless sensor networks, sensor 
node, clustering, data aggregation, 
power-saving 
 
二、前言  
  隨著資訊科技的進步，各種先進技術
被應用到日常生活中，再加上無線網路的
日漸普及，使得行動裝置的使用率逐年攀
升，因而衍生出許多便利性的應用與服
務。其中無線感測網路便成了一個重要的
熱門研究重點之一。 
無 線 感 測 網 路 (Wireless Sensor 
Networks, WSN)[1]是由大量的感測節點
(Sensor Nodes)所組成，每個感測節點是由
 4
Positioning System)的接收器電源消耗相當
大，故需要特別設計無 GPS 之低耗電、低
運算、高準確度之定位方法；而涵蓋範圍
(Coverage) [17-20]的研究主要探討感測節
點所能偵測之範圍及如何以最節省的方式
(或區域內任一位置至少能被 k 個感測節點
所偵測到)來佈署感測節點；資料聚集(data 
aggregation) [3][6][22]的研究是探討如何將
感測節點所收集之資料做最有效、最省電
或最快速的傳回後端的資料收集中心。 
無線感測網路的資料聚集應用可根據
感測傳輸資料的時機略分成兩類：事件驅
動 (Event Driven) 和 時 間 驅 動 (Time 
Driven)。所謂的事件驅動是當感測節點所
偵測到的數值超過某個警戒值(threshold)
才會回報所偵測的資訊；然而時間驅動是
透過感測節點以週期性的方式回報資訊。 
    在參考文獻  [4]中提出有向性散佈 
(Directed Diffusion) ，是一個具有省能、強
健性的無線感測網路之資料傳送技術，採
用資料導向的路由(data-centric routing)方
法，有向性散佈的方法包含需求訊息 
(Interests Message) 、 資 料 訊 息 (Data 
Message)、梯度(Gradients)和連線的更新 
(Reinforcement)。有向性散佈的方法，一開
始由資料收集節點透過廣播(Flooding)的方
式將 Interests Message 告訴 WSN 中的相鄰
節點，相鄰節點再將訊息傳送給它的鄰居
節點，直到所有的感測節點都收到需求訊
息為止，然後接收端會和傳送端建立一條
「梯度」連線，以追蹤訊息的傳遞路徑，
沿著先前建立的梯度連線傳送到資料收集
節 點 ， 在 回 傳 的 同 時 ， 中 間 節 點
(Intermediate Node)會進行資料處理，將重
覆的訊息去除，以不同的路徑回傳給使用
者，使用者必需進行路徑「更新」，經過
評估運算後，從中挑選一條最佳的路徑，
提供來源節點(source node)繼續進行資料
回傳，並中斷其它回傳路徑。 
    在參考文獻[5]中提出以網格(Grid)為
基 礎 的 Two-Tier Data Dissemination 
(TTDD) ，TTDD 中提出了資料收集節點會
移動的方法，當某個事件發生時，偵測到
事 件 的 感 測 節 點 會 送 出 資 料 通 知
(data-announcement)的封包，然後感測節點
向東、西、南、北四個方位傳遞資料通知，
當鄰近的感測節點收到後會以相同的方式
繼續往下傳遞，如此便可以建立一個虛擬
網格(Virtual Grid)，而移動中的資料收集節
點會下達請求(query)，而收到請求的節點
便會往來源節點傳遞，再由來源端依照請
求的反方向路徑來傳遞資料，資料收集節
點便可收到所需要的資料。Geographic Grid 
Routing (GGR)[6]也是以網格為基礎的架
構，此方法是以 TTDD 為基礎所改良的路
由協定，因為可使用多條路徑到資料收集
節點，所以能使網格內的感測節點負載平
衡。比起 TTDD 更能節省能源 (Energy 
Efficiency)、更有擴充性(Scalability)、更有
健全性(Robustness)。在無線感測網路中建
立了一個虛擬網格架構來進行資料傳輸，
以動態的調整傳輸範圍可以大幅提升感測
節點的生命週期，進而促進整個無線感測
網路的生命週期，在傳送資料的過程中，
延遲資料傳輸可以增加資料聚集的機會，
因此可以減少更多的電力消耗。 
  以上許多的研究方向都有其重要性，
然而如何節省感測節點的電力消耗將影響
上述之研究結果，這是因為無線感測網路
其節點的設計理念（低耗電、低成本、體
積小、具感測裝置），每個感測節點所放
置的地點不一定能提供持續且充足的電
力，因此感測節點只能依賴本身所配載的
電池電力來運作，若耗盡其電力則該節點
即失去運作能力，所以必須避免因為少數
感測節點無法運作(電力耗盡或損壞)而造
成整個網路癱瘓的情形。因此，本計畫將
針對在無線感測網路環境下，感測資料之
聚集與傳輸的問題加以研究與探討，讓整
個感測網路能持續正常的完成感測資料傳
輸，並能減少感測節點之電力消耗，即節
省電力的消耗，但後端的資料收集器仍收
到正確、有效的資料，並能以此達成監控
或即時反應異常之功能。 
 
五、研究方法  
  本計畫針對無線網路下各感測節點的
地理位置資訊與感測節點所收集資料的變
動性，設計一個以地理資訊為主的分類方
式，如圖 2 所示。我們假設整個感測區域
的中心點為無線資料收集節點(Sink Node)
的所在處，以此為中心平均地將整個感測
 6
 
  圖 6 以感測節點所收集之溫度資料為
例來說明在感測聚集節點之層級導向資料
聚集的處理。其中層級總數為 4 (即α=4)，
各層級代號分別為：L, M, W, H，且 L <20
度， 20 度≦M<30 度，30 度≦W＜40 度，
H≧40 度。 
 
圖 6. 層級導向的資料聚集 
 
六、結果與討論  
在我們所設計之資料聚集為主的路由
機制，考量能源之消耗、資料傳送之延遲
與無線通訊之連結數量來評估整個系統的
效能。數據模擬分析的結果與傳統無線網
路路由機制(AODV)之比較如圖 7-9： 
1. 能源消耗 :在考量無線通訊之能源消
耗，包含封包的傳送與接收時所消耗的
能源。由於封包傳送模式較接收模式消
耗較多的能源，故本研究所提之資料聚
集為主的路由機制能有效的減少封包
的傳送次數，進而達成減少能源的消
耗，模擬之結果如圖 7 所示。 
 
圖 7.在不同數量的感測節點下觀察能源消
耗之影響 
 
2. 封包延遲: 封包延遲的時間定義為從資
料收集節點送出控制訊息，要求部分(或
全部 )感測節點執行特定感測任務開
始，直到所有感測資料回傳到資料收集
節點為止的時間。雖然資料聚集的路由
機制會造成封包傳送的延遲，但是由於
資料聚集會減少無線網路頻寬的使
用，能減少封包的碰撞或遺失率，故系
統平均的封包延遲時間仍比傳統的無
線網路路由機制(AODV)較佳。模擬之
結果如圖 8 所示。在感測節點數量大於
90 時，因為 90%以上的感測節點均在感
測狀態(sensing state)，所建立之虛擬連
結與實際連結相同(1 hop)，故會產生較
多的時間延遲，而使整體之封包延遲時
間較 AODV 差。 
 
圖 8. 在不同數量的感測節點下觀察封包
延遲之影響 
 
3. 頻寬使用量: 由於無線網路傳輸會產生
隱藏節點問題(Hidden node problem)，
而造成封包的碰撞或遺失，須經由資料
重傳機制來避免資料遺失，但若能有效
減少無線網路之傳輸次數，便能減少封
包的碰撞或遺失的問題產生。因此，我
們分析所提出之路由機制之整體的無
線連結數量，模擬之結果如圖 9 所示。
根據實驗結果可以看出，我們所提的機
制能有效的減少無線連結數量，故能達
成減少頻寬消耗及節省電源的目的。 
 
 
 8
Networks,” IEEE Region 10 
Conference(TENCON 2004), vol. 2, pp. 
545-548, Nov. 2004. 
[3] C. Intanagonwiwat, D. Estrin, and R. 
Govindan, “Impact of Network Density on 
Data Aggregation in Wireless Sensor 
Networks,” Procs. of the 22nd International 
Conference on Distributed Computing 
Systems (ICDCS), pp 457-458, 2002. 
[4] C. Li, M. Ye, G. Chen and J. Wu, “an 
Energy-Efficient Unequal Clustering 
Mechanism for Wireless Sensor Networks,” 
International Conference on Mobile Adhoc 
and Sensor System, pp. 1-8, Nov. 2005. 
[5] W. R. Heinzelman, A. Chandrakasan, and H. 
Balakrishnan, “Energy-Efficient 
Communication Protocol for Wireless 
Microsensor Networks,” the 33rd Annual 
Hawaii International Conference on System 
Sciences, vol. 2, pp. 1-10, Jan. 2000. 
[6] C. Intanagonwiwat, R. Govindan, D. Estrin, 
and J. Heidemann, “Directed diffusion for 
wireless sensor networking,” IEEE Trans. On 
Networking, Vol. 11, No. 1, Feb. 2003. 
[7] M. Ditzel and K. Langendoen, “D3: 
Data-Centric Data Dissemination in Wireless 
Sensor Network,” the European Conference 
on Wireless Technology, pp. 185-188, Oct. 
2005. 
[8] H. Luo, F. Ye, J. Cheng and S. Lu, “TTDD: 
Two-tier Data Dissemination in Large-scale 
Wireless Sensor Networks,” In ACM 
International Conference on Mobile 
Computing and Networking, pp. 161-175, 
Apr. 2002. 
[9] J. Homsberger and G. C. Shoja, “Geographic 
Grid Routing for Wireless Sensor Networks,” 
International Conference on Networking, 
Sensing and Control, pp. 484-489, Mar. 
2005. 
[10] M. Younis, M. Youssef, and K. Arisha, 
“Energy-Aware Routing in Cluster-Based 
Sensor Networks,” Procs. of the 10th IEEE 
Int’l Symp. on Modeling, Analysis, & 
Simulation of Computer & 
Telecommunications Systems, pp. 129- 136, 
2002.  
[11] P. Bergamo, D. Maniezzo, and G. Mazzini, 
“RWPS: A Low Computation Routing 
Algorithm for Sensor Networks,” IEEE 
ICICS-PCM2003, Vol.2, pp. 1071- 1075, 
Dec. 2003 
[12] H.-S. Kim and K.-J. Han, “A Power 
Efficient Routing Protocol Based on 
Balanced Tree in Wireless Sensor 
Networks,” Proc. of 1st International 
Conference on Distributed Frameworks for 
Multimedia Applications, pp. 138- 143, Feb. 
2005. 
 
[13] E. Biagioni and S. H. Chen, “A Reliability 
Layer for Ad-Hoc Wireless Sensor Network 
Routing,” Proc. of 37th Hawaii International 
Conference on System Sciences, Jan. 2004. 
[14] C. Savarese and J. Rabaey, “Robust 
Positioning Algorithms for Distributed 
Wireless Sensor Networks,” Procs. of the 
General Track: USENIX Annual Technical 
Conference, pp. 317 – 327, 2002. 
[15] T. He, C. Huang, B. M. Blum, J. A. 
Stankovic, and T. Abdelzaher, “Range-Free 
Localization Schemes for Large Scale 
Sensor Networks,” Procs. of the Annual 
International Conference on Mobile 
Computing and Networking (MOBICOM), 
pp. 81-95, 2003. 
[16] H.-C. Chu and R.-H. Jan, “A GPS-less, 
outdoor, self-positioning method for 
wireless sensor networks,” accepted and to 
appear in Journal of Ad Hoc Networks, 
2006. 
[17] S. Meguerdichian, F. Koushanfar, M. 
Potkonjak, M. B. Srivastava, “Coverage 
Problems in Wireless Ad-hoc Sensor 
Networks,” IEEE INFOCOM, pp.1380-1387, 
2001. 
[18] Chi-Fu Huang and Yu-Chee Tseng, “The 
Coverage Problem in a Wireless Sensor 
Network,” ACM Mobile Networks and 
Applications (MONET), special issue on 
Wireless Sensor Networks, Vol. 10, No. 4, 
pp. 519-528, Aug. 2005. 
[19] M. Liu, J. Cao, W. Lou, L.-J. Chen, and X. 
Li, “Coverage Analysis for Wireless Sensor 
Networks,” Proc. of International Conf. on 
Mobile Ad-hoc Sensor Networks, Dec. 
2005. 
[20] K-COVER 
[21] S. Lindsey and C. S. Raghavendra, 
“PEGASIS: Power-Efficient GAthering in 
Sensor Information Systems,” IEEE 
Aerospace Conference, Vol. 3, pp. 
1125-1130, Mar. 2002. 
[22] H. Sabbineni, and K. Chakrabarty, 
“Location-Aided Flooding: An 
Energy-Efficient Data Dissemination 
Protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks,” 
IEEE Trans, on Computers, Vol. 54, No. 1, 
pp. 36-46, Jan. 2005. 
 
 
deployment stage. By this way, the sensing area of 
circle-shaped (P0) can be divided into 13 independent 
regions, i.e. all the regions R1, R2, … and R13. 
According to the number of SNs that cover the regions, 
they can be classified into three types: 
z Type 1 region: The region is covered by only 
one SN’s signal, e.g., region R1. 
z Type 2 region: The region is covered by two 
SNs’ signal, e.g., region R2, R4, R6, R8, R10 
and R12. 
z Type 3 region: The region is covered by three 
SNs’ signal, e.g., region R3, R5, R7, R9, R11 
and R13. 
By using simple geometry, we can find the centroid 
(xc, yc) of the region by 
)...,...(),( 2121
n
yyy
n
xxxyx nncc
++++++=  
where (x1, y1), (x2, y2), …, (xn, yn) are the vertices of the 
region. Take Fig. 1(b) for example, if a user localizes 
itself in region R2, the estimated location of SN is 
)
4
,
4
( 43214321
yxyyxxxx ++++++  
Based on the location estimation that mentioned 
above, beacon frame that SN periodically broadcasts 
was designed to notify all of the users staying in its 
signal coverage area. Note that each SN knows all 
centroids of its localization regions that can be 
computed and set up in the deployment stage. The 
beacon format contains the following data: 
)})},(),...,,{(,(      
)}),...,,(),...,,{(,(,{
11
11
ckckccr
cacaccrn
yxyxt
yxyxtts
k
a
=  
where nt  represents the type of SN’s structure, (e.g., 
nt =1 for hexagonal structure and nt =2 for meshed 
structure); 
ir
t represents the type of localization region 
(e.g., 
ir
t ∈{1, 2, 3} for hexagonal structure); and 
(
cici yx , ) represents the centroid of the region. Note that 
the type number of the region is equal to the number of 
signals that can be received in that region. 
For example, as shown in Fig. 2, the beacon frames 
of SN 5 and 6 are 
})},,,,,{,3(       
}),,,,,,{,2(}),{,1(,1{
})},,,,,{,3(       
}),,,,,,{,2(}),{,1(,1{
22201816119
232119171510146
13119753
1210864215
CCCCCC
CCCCCCCs
CCCCCC
CCCCCCCs
=
=
 
where C1, C2, …, and C23 represent the centroids of 
localization regions R1, R2, …, and R23, respectively. 
Then, mobile device collects the beacon signals 
from the SNs and determines its location. The 
operations of mobile device are given as follows. 
1. Collect and store the beacon signal that it receives. 
2.  Determine the number of SNs, denoted as m, that 
it can listen to. Then extract the centroid set with 
the type m from the beacon frames, denoted can 
receive beacons from SN 5 and 6, it extracts the 
centroid set with Type 2 from the received beacon 
frames as follows. 
},,,,,{
},,,,,{
232119171510
2
6
12108642
2
5
CCCCCCs
CCCCCCs
=
=  
3. The mobile device finds a centroid by intersecting 
the centroid sets as its location, i.e.,find mii SI . 
For example, }{ 102625 Css =I . 
 
3. Backup mechanism for CPM 
 
For imperfect SNs, it will fail to work in execution 
stage. When a SN failed, the entire sensing area cannot 
be covered. In this scenario, the CPM can not operate 
in the place that is uncovered by SNs’ signal. 
Therefore, a CPM with backup SNs is presented. As 
shown in Fig. 3, a backup SN B0 is deployed in the 
centroid of region that can receive thee different SNs’ 
(N0, N3, and N4) signal. The coverage radius of the 
backup SN is RB0 that can cover all Type 1 regions of 
these three SNs (i.e. the shadowed region). In other 
words, each backup SN is responsible for detecting the 
status of three SNs. According to this deployment 
2
1−
2
3
2
1−
2
3−
2
1
2
3
2
1
2
3−
Fig. 1.  A layout of SNs with a hexagonal structure.
 
Fig. 2.  An example of Type 2 region. 
the average accuracy of the proposed method for 
imperfect SNs with and without perfect backup SNs. 
From Fig. 5, note that the proposed method for 
imperfect SNs with (without) backup SNs having 1%, 
5%, and 10% failure rates can locate mobile device to 
within 0.3088 unit distance for 98.89% (98.68%), 
93.91% (92.74%) and 87.79% (85.6%) of 
measurements, respectively. In Fig. 6, it shows the 
average accuracy with imperfect SNs (i.e. backup SNs 
are also imperfect). The proposed method with backup 
SNs can reduce the number of un-located mobile 
devices from 21, 121 and 236 to 1, 16, and 63 in 1%, 
5%, and 10% SNs failure rate, respectively. 
 
5. Conclusion 
 
We proposed a backup mechanism for CPM that 
mobile devices only collect the beacon frames from 
SNs and use the information in the beacon frame to 
calculate their locations. By simulation, the proposed 
method can effective reduce the number of un-located 
mobile devices when one or more SNs are failed.  
The following directions might be interesting for 
possible future work: (1) find an optimal layout for 
irregular network structure by tuning SNs’ 
transmitting-power, (2) find a power-saving 
mechanism to prolong lifetime of SNs, (3) find a 
secure message communication and positioning 
estimation algorithm for untruthful environment. 
 
6. References 
 
[1] N. Davies, K. Cheverst, K. Mitchell, and A. Efrat, “Using 
and determining location in a context-sensitive tour 
guide,” IEEE Computer Magazine. vol. 38, Aug. 2001, 
pp. 35-41. 
[2] I. F. Akyildiz,W. Su, Y. Sankarasubramaniam, and E. 
Cayirci, ”Wireless sensor networks: A survey,” 
Computer Network, vol. 38, 2002, pp. 393-422. 
[3] D. Niculescu and B. Nath, “Ad hoc positioning system,” 
in Proc. IEEE Global Communications Conf., 2001, pp. 
2926-2931. 
[4] T. He, C. Huang, B. Blum, J. Stankovic, and T. 
Abdelzaher, “Range-free location schemes in large scale 
sensor networks,” in Proc. Mobile Computing and 
Networking Conf., 2003, pp. 81-95. 
[5] H.-C. Chu and R.-H. Jan, “A GPS-less, outdoor, self-
positioning method for wireless sensor networks,” 
accepted and to appear in Journal of Ad Hoc Networks.
 
 
(a)                                                  (b)                                            (c)           
Fig. 4.  The layout of failed SNs with a backup SNs B0. (a) failure of SN N0, (b) failure of SN N0 and N3, (c) 
failure of SN N0, N3, and N4. 
 
Fig. 5.  The average accuracy for backup SNs 
(backup SNs are perfect).
 
Fig. 6.  The average accuracy for backup SNs 
(SNs and backup SNs have the same failure rate).
 
 
 
next section summarizes previous efforts in wireless ad hoc 
routing and data aggregation. Section 3 presents a routing 
mechanism that is suitable for data aggregation in wireless 
sensor networks. Simulation results are presented in Section 4. 
Finally, a conclusion is given in Section 5. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
Wireless sensor network is different from traditional wired 
network in routing mechanism. Ad hoc routing mechanism is 
used in wireless sensor network that data will be sent from 
source node to target node via neighboring nodes. That is 
neighboring nodes receives data that from others and relays it 
to another. This is called as ad hoc routing. However, routing 
mechanism for traditional wired network is not suitable for ad 
hoc network, because the router or switch that is responsible 
for data routing is not present. Therefore, ad hoc routing for 
wireless sensor network should be considered.  
In this section, we only mention a popular classical 
wireless routing method, ad hoc on-demand vector (AODV) 
[6, 7] that had become a Request for Comments (RFC) that is 
released by Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) in July, 
2003. The detail of other wireless routing methods such as 
DSDV [8], DSR [9, 10], and so on are omitted in this paper. 
AODV is a reactive routing protocol. The basic concept is 
that when a necessary routing path occurs, it will be 
established utilizing the Route Requests (RREQs) and Route 
Replies (RREPs) control packets. The method can save 
bandwidth capacity but incur high packet delay. The detail 
operation and frame format of AODV can be found in [7].  
In the research topic of data aggregation, it tries to merge 
relative data and establish a special purpose routing path from 
source to destination for consideration of power-saving, 
bandwidth utilization or others. There are two types of data 
aggregation in general. One is data-centric scheme [11, 12] 
and the other is location-centric [13, 14, 15, 16] scheme.  
In data-centric scheme, routing path was established by 
designated data that is sensed by source nodes. Typical 
data-centric scheme is directed diffusion method [11]. Every 
link of adjacent nodes establishes a gradient toward each 
other. The routing path is created by minimizing the gradient 
that specifies both a data rate of communication link and a 
direction in which to send events. In [12], a hierarchical 
aggregation technique was proposed that enhance the 
directed diffusion method.  
In location-centric scheme, routing path was established by 
geographic information of nodes. The Low-Energy Adaptive 
Clustering Hierarchy (LEACH) [13] method utilizes 
cluster-based approach that is formed by geographic 
information to perform energy-efficient routing protocol. In 
[14] and [15], they presented an enhanced LEACH scheme to 
reduce power consumption. Location-aided flooding (LAF) 
scheme [16] uses node identifications to identify nodes, sends 
control packet that including node list, and divides monitored 
area into virtual grids to achieve energy saving by reducing 
redundant transmissions link. 
Because of the fast progress of micro-electro-mechanical 
systems (MEMS) technology and wireless communications, 
it is possible to develop a powerful sensor node with Global 
Positioning System (GPS) receiver that can provide 
geographic information in real time. The research of data 
aggregation using location-centric scheme is a popular trend 
today. Therefore, we proposed a location-centric based data 
aggregation for wireless sensor networks. 
III. ROUTING SCHEME FOR DATA AGGREGATION 
In this section, we proposed a wireless routing method that 
is based on location-centric scheme for data aggregation. As 
shown in Fig. 1, interesting field is divided into eight 
triangles area T1, T2, …, T7, and T8 by geographic information 
of sensor nodes and sink node S is placed in the center. There 
are N sensor nodes n1, n2, ..., nN in the interesting field. We 
define that ij Tn ∈ , if  nj is located within Ti (e.g. 
1921 ∈,...,, Tnnn  ). For simply, we assume that all sensor 
nodes are stationary with stable wireless link and the entire 
interesting field can be covered by the union of sensing 
coverage region of sensor nodes. Although, sensor nodes 
could move around in the interesting area for real case, the 
proposed method still can work well with geographic 
information. This is because that the routing scheme from 
source node to aggregate node (or from one to other 
aggregate node) is modified by AODV in this paper. Note 
that aggregate node is a sensor node that collects sensing data 
from its neighboring nodes and itself. It is obvious that 
AODV is suitable for mobile sensor nodes. For flexibility, the 
proposed method can apply other suitable wireless routing 
method to achieve the routing from source node to aggregate 
node. 
There are two states of sensor nodes: forwarding state and 
sensing state. The state of sensor nodes is transited by 
receiving control message that contains trigger or release 
message. The state transition diagram is shown in Fig. 2. In 
forwarding state, sensor node only forwards received packet. 
If a sensor node receives a control packet (includes trigger 
Fig. 1.  A layout of routing scheme that is merged by shortest virtual 
link between adjacent clusters. 
 
 
 
consumption, message delivery latency and the number of 
communication links will be considered in our simulation. 
Assume that the received power dissipation is 395mW, the 
transmitted power dissipation is 660mW and the duration of 
simulation is 100 second. 
z Energy consumption: The communication 
dissipated energy that includes the receiving and 
transmitting process for all sensor nodes is measured. 
In Fig. 5, we can see that the proposed method can 
effectively reduce the energy consumption 
comparing with AODV. In the case of 10, 50 and 100 
source nodes, our method can reduce the energy 
about 25.5W, 178.6W and 433W, respectively. The 
energy consumption of our method in all simulation 
cases is less than 94.1W. According to the simulation 
result, it shows that our method has low energy 
consumption. 
z Latency: Delivery latency measures the time when 
sink node receive the data from all source nodes after 
sensing the interests. This measurement will show 
the total response time of all source nodes. As shown 
in Fig. 6, our method has short latency if the number 
of source nodes is less than 80. In the case of 10, 50 
and 80 source nodes, our method can reduce the 
latency about 4.76 second, 0.2 second and 1.41 
second, respectively. However, in the case of 100 
source nodes, our method is worse than AODV 
about 5.58 second. This is because all sensor nodes 
are triggered as source nodes. Each source nodes 
should find a shortest path from one to another to be 
the virtual link. At this time, the virtual link is the 
same as the physical link. The data transmission of 
inner source nodes should wait for the receiving data 
from outer source nodes. Although, a possible 
solution is that inner source nodes transmit their data 
without waiting mechanism. However, this solution 
will increase the number of data transmission and 
incur high power-consumption. The defect will be 
considered and solved in our future work. 
z Number of communication links: The hidden node 
problem of wireless network causes the transmission 
failure. Although this problem can be solved by the 
Requst To Send (RTS) and Clear To Send (CTS) 
control frames. Under this solution, neighboring 
nodes cannot transmit its data if one node starts to 
transmit. The number of communication links 
between two nodes affects the rate of successful 
transmission. Therefore, we measure the 
communication links to show the performance on 
both of the power-consumption and bandwidth 
utilization. In Fig. 7, the number of communication 
links in our method is better than AODV for all cases.  
In the case of 10, 50, and 100 source nodes, our 
method can reduce the number of communication 
links from 52, 254 and 537 to 26, 72, and 100, 
respectively. The simulation result shows that our 
method can effective save transmission energy and 
bandwidth utilization. 
Fig. 5.  Energy consumption. 
Fig. 6.  Delivery latency 
Fig. 7.  Communication links 
