2 
 
comprehensive summary for the accelerated degradation testing methods. 
 
When implementing an ADT for high reliable units, the thing above all is to choose proper stress va-
riables for life testing. After that engineers need to select proper stress loading methods and a degrada-
tion model to start the life test and gather the degradation information over time. Two common stress 
variables for ADT experiments are the temperature and voltage (or current). Traditionally, the Arrhe-
nius law model, power law model or exponential law model could be used for the connection between 
stress variables and the degradation parameters in the ADT studies. A comprehensive discussion about 
the applications using stress variables can be found in Meeker and Escobar (1988). 
 
The stress loading method determines how the stress conditions should be applied to the test units over 
time. It can be broadly classified into constant-stress loading, step-stress loading and progres-
sive-stress loading conditions. The degradation model describes the behavior of the degradation cha-
racteristic as a function of time. The general degradation path model and the stochastic process model 
are two typical degradation models, both of them are popular in practical ADT applications. Detailed 
information for these two degradation models can be found in Lu and Meeker (1993) and Wu and 
Chang (2002). The practice of using constant-stress or step-stress loading ADT methods has received 
considerable attention in recent two decades. See Lim and Yum (2011), Lu and Meeker (1993), Liao 
and Elsayed (2004), Liao and Tseng (2006), Padgett and Tomlinson (2004), Pak and Padgett (2006), 
Tang et al. (2004), Tseng and Wen (2000), Tseng and Peng (2007) and Tseng et al. (2009) for more 
detailed information. 
 
The applications of step-stress loading ADT method could save test resource. However, inferences on 
the lifetime distribution parameters using step-stress degradation data usually depend on the memory-
less assumption. This assumption is true only when the degradation of the component quality charac-
teristic can be well controlled under specified accelerated conditions. But this assumption may fail 
when high reliable products or components are used as test units for degradation experiments. Nowa-
days, products are more reliable through well manufacturing effort. When an ADT involves high reli-
able products as test units, their quality characteristic may degrade slowly even undergoing accelerated 
conditions. Engineers are forced to apply higher stress levels to accelerate the degradation speed of 
test units. It becomes unrealistic to ignore the cumulated degradation effect inherited from the former 
stress conditions over time under the step-stress loading design. Hence, the memoryless assumption 
would be doubtful and might make the product reliability inference inaccurate. 
 
Another problem raised from some traditional ADT methods is to predict the potential lifetimes 
through the extrapolation method. Traditionally, an ADT is terminated much earlier than the potential 
failure time of high reliable product and engineers could use the extrapolation method with the degra-
dation information to predict the potential lifetime for a given threshold of degradation level. The 
4 
 
AC5 75 650 10 2 8 
“*” 3 LEDs failed due to unidentified reasons. 
2.2. Statistical Model.  
Denote the cumulative damage process of a test unit due to degradation over time by ሼXሺt୧ሻ ൒ 0, t଴ ൏
⋯ ൏ t୫ ൏ ⋯ሽ. These cumulative damage measurements have the following properties: 
P1. Every increment Xሺt୧ሻ െ Xሺt୧ିଵሻ, within the time interval ሺt୧ିଵ, t୧ሻ is normally distributed with 
mean ν୐ሺt୧ െ t୧ିଵሻ and precision λሺt୧ െ t୧ିଵሻିଵ, i=1,2,…, where λ is the precision parameter. 
P2. The increments for any set of disjoint time intervals are independent. 
P3. It is commonly assumed that the initial time and the initial cumulative damage are zero (See Karlin 
and Taylor (1975)) 
The distribution of Xሺtሻ at t>0 can be shown to have a normal pdf. The lifetime of the test unit is 
defined as the first passage time S to an absorbing barrier at C and has an inverse Gaussian distribution, 
which has the pdf and cdf defined as follows: 
fሺs; μ୐, λሻ ൌ ට ஛ଶ஠ୱయ exp ൜െ
஛ሺୱିஜైሻమ
ଶୱஜమై ൠ,                                              (1) 
Fሺs; μ୐, λሻ ൌ Φ ൜ට஛ୱ ሺ
ୱ
ஜై െ 1ሻൠ ൅ exp ቄ
ଶ஛
ஜైቅΦ ൜െට
஛
ୱ ሺ
ୱ
ஜై ൅ 1ሻൠ , s ൐ 0.                     (2) 
The parameter μ୐ is the MTTF and can be expressed as μ୐ ൌ ሺC െ x଴ሻ/ν୐, where x଴ is the initial 
cumulative damage and ν୐ is called the drift parameter. According to the results of Padgett and Tom-
linson (2004) and Cox and Miller (1965), the pdf of Xሺτሻ  conditional on Xሺτሻ ൏ ܥ at 0 ൏ τ ൏ ݐ 
can be presented as the pdf of a truncated Wiener diffusion process. Assume that n components are 
randomly drawn and put on a degradation test simultaneously at the initial time t଴ ൌ 0, and their de-
gradation model on the quality characteristic follow a cumulative damage process which has Property 
P1 to Property P3. A test unit is defined as failure if its cumulative damage level reaches or over a 
given t the absorbing barrier, C. Continuing the degradation test until the prescribed termination time 
of experimental run is up. Assume that p failed units and q survival units are found at the end of de-
gradation test. It follows that n = p + q. When an ADT is well developed, it is commonly assumed that 
the drift parameter of the Wiener diffusion process is affected only by the stress conditions. Hence, we 
denote the drift parameter by ν୐, where L is the stress variable. The higher the stress loading level is, 
the higher the value of ν୐ is found. That is, a shorter mean lifetime of products is found under a high-
er stress loading level, or failures are expected to occur more frequently under the higher stress loading 
levels. Model assumptions to develop the proposed statistical methods are given in assumptions of A-1 
to A-7: 
A-1. Considering the absolute ambient temperature and the drive current as the accelerated variables, 
denoted by Lଵ୧′  and Lଶ୧′ , respectively, i=1,2,…, k, to speed up the lumen degradation of LED 
over time. Let Lଵ଴′  and Lଶ଴′  be the normal use loading levels of Lଵ′  and Lଶ′ , respectively, and let 
Lଵ୑′  and Lଶ୑′  be their corresponding maximum stress loading levels used in the degradation test. 
A-2. Let the ith stress loading level L୧ᇱ  be labeled by two components ሺLଵ୧ᇱ , Lଶ୧ᇱ ሻ and total ni = pi + qi 
6 
 
References 
H. Lim, and B.-J. Yum, ”Optimal design of accelerated degradation tests based on Wiener process 
models”. Journal of Applied Statistics, vol. 38, 309-325, 2011. 
W.Q. Meeker, and L.A. Escobar, Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. John Wiley & Sons: New 
York, 1988. 
C.-J. Lu and W.Q. Meeker, ”Using degradation measures to estimate a time-to-failure distribution.” 
Technometric, vol. 35, 161-174, 1993. 
S.-J. Wu and C.-T. Chang, ”Optimal design of degradation tests in presence of cost constraint.” Relia-
bility Engineering and System Safety, vol. 76, 109-115, 2002. 
H.T. Liao and E.A. Elsayed, ”Reliability prediction and testing plan based on an accelerated degrada-
tion rate model.” International Journal of Materials and Product Technology, vol. 21, 402-422, 
2004. 
C.M. Liao and S.T. Tseng, ”Optimal design for step-stress accelerated degradation tests.” IEEE 
Transaction on Reliability, vol. 55, 59-66, 2006. 
W.T. Padgett and M.A. Tomlinson, ”Inference from accelerated degradation and failure data based on 
Gaussian process models.” Lifetime Data Analysis, vol. 10, 191-206, 2004. 
C. Park, and W.T. Padgett, ”Stochastic degradation models with several accelerating variables.” IEEE 
Transaction on Reliability, vol. 55, 379-390, 2006. 
L.C. Tang, G.Y. Yang, and M. Xie, ”Planning of step-stress accelerated degradation test.” Reliability 
and Maintainaility Annual Symposium, Los Angeles, CA, 2004. 
S.-T. Tseng and Z.C. Wen, ”Step-stress accelerated degradation analysis for highly reliable products.” 
Journal of Quality Technology, vol. 32, 209-216, 2000. 
S.-T. Tseng and C.-Y. Peng, ”Stochastic diffusion modeling of degradation data.” Data Science, vol. 5, 
315-313, 2007. 
S.-T. Tseng, N. Balakrishnan and C.-C. Tsai, ”Optimal step-stess accelerated degradation test plan for 
gamma degradation process.” IEEE Transections on Reliability, vol. 58, 611-618, 2009. 
W.T. Padgett and M.A. Tomlinson, "Inference from accelerated degradation and failure data based on 
Gaussian process models." Lifetime Data Analysis, vol. 10, 191-206, 2004. 
D.R. Cox, and H.D. Miller, The Theory of Stochastic Processes. John Wiley & Sons: New York, 1965. 
S. Karlin and H.M. Taylor, A First Course in Stochastic Process, 2nd edition, New York, Academic 
Press, H.M. 1975. 
S.D. Durham and W.J. Padgett, ”A cumulative damage model for system failure with application to 
carbon fibers and composites.” Technometrics, vol. 39, 34-44, 1997. 
Y.L. Lio, and C. Park, ”A Bootstrap control chart for inverse Gaussian percentiles.” Journal of Statis-
tical Computation and Simulation, vol. 80, 287-299, 2010. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/15
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 具有累積損害過程之加速退化檢定之研究(I)
計畫主持人: 蔡宗儒
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-032-043- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究計畫與美國Department of Mathematical Science, University of South 
Dakota 劉玉龍教授合作. 劉教授為統計著名期刊 Journal of Statistical 
Computation and Simulation 工業統計相關專題之 AE, 專長在工業統計理論模
型. 透過與工業技術研究院收集 LED 磊晶退化資料及與國外專家交換心得, 對
本計畫方法之開發有相當的助益. 目前已經得到資料初步分析結果並進行細部
分析中. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
