the development and deployment processes of the 
diverse multimedia service applications. This extends 
the effect of IMS from the original 3GPP network to 
the NGN network. 
IMS can provide the multimedia service with guarantee 
QoS then it is big issue when users 
handover in different wireless networks. It needs to 
delay the authentication and authorization of IMS 
and keeps resource reservation with QoS. To continue 
the previous service, they have to wait for a long 
time. So we propose an adaptive end-to-end QoS 
procedure utilizing 802.21 MIH to assist network 
handover and combine the information that IMS 
handover at the same time, in order to reduce 
handover 
英文關鍵詞：  
 
2 
 
一, 中文摘要 
 
網際網路多媒體子系統(IP Multimedia Subsystem， IMS)係為新世代網路(Next Generation 
Network， NGN)中提供整合性多媒體服務的整合平台。IMS 原由電信組織所發展，建置於 3G 電 
信網路之上，以提供 3G 行動用戶整合而具多元性的多媒體服務為目的，而為電信產業所積極推 
廣。然因 IMS 採用 All IP 的核心網路設計，使得新型多媒體服務的開發、設計與佈建均易與現有 
的網際網路整合，而將 IMS 更進一步推向 NGN，成為 NGN 網路的新寵。 
IMS 以分層的設計提供良好的異質性傳輸介面的整合能力，致使佈建於 IMS 上的多元化多媒 
體服務可藉由各種不同的接取網路傳遞。隨著 3G 網路與 WiMAX 網路的商用佈建日漸普及，乃 
至於第四代行動通訊技術的規劃與發展，多重無線介面行動通訊成為研究與商業運營的焦點，諸 
多跨網域乃至於跨越異質性接取網路的議題應孕而生。跨網域與跨越異質性接取網路的使用情境 
不僅影響現有語音、視訊與數據服務的流暢度以及方便性，對以提供具有服務品質保證(Quality of 
Service，QoS)的整合性多媒體服務為號召的 IMS 多媒體子系統自然構成更大的衝擊。 
本研究計畫將立基於服務品質保證服務的前提下，針對 IMS 多媒體子系統將面 
臨的跨網域與跨異質性行動接取網路的使用情境提出問題的論述與解決之道。透過本研究計畫的 
執行，未來，實際佈建於 IMS 的多元化多媒體服務不但具有整合性，在服務的流暢度與服務品質 
保證等諸多關乎使用者使用經驗的面向上，更可獲致重大的改善。 
 
關鍵字：多媒體子系統,異質性行動接取網路,換手機制 
4 
 
同時進行服務網域政策的驗證(Policy Decision)，並進行資源保留的程序。待一切動作完成後再 
彙結授權的結果給終端的使用者以進行多媒體服務通訊，並啟動計費機制，進行計費。 
前述 IMS 多媒體子系統的驗證、授權與計費程序極為嚴謹，但卻繁複！使用者在進行無線電網 
域的漫遊時本已需執行行動終端與基地台間的連結 (Association)、認證與授權的程序以接續無 
線接取網路的使用，再加上IMS 服務的驗證授權機制，則一終端使用者在其移動漫遊的過程 
裡，針對服務的換手，需得經歷雙重的驗證程序。 
雙重驗證的程序甚為費時，對以即時性應用為主體的多元化多媒體服務而言，當甚難達成服務 
無縫換手的目標。多媒體服務多數以即時性為貴，底層通訊協定進行換手程序所造成的服務交 
遞延遲，多對多媒體服務的流暢性有所阻滯。底層通訊協定於換手時所進行的驗證程序一般稱 
之為設備驗證，藉由重新連結、認證與授權，一終端使用者的行動通訊設備方可重新與新的目 
標基地台進行無線電連結，以取得網路接取服務。若再加上IMS 多媒體子系統對使用者進行驗 
證時所產生的服務遞延，無疑是惡化整個服務的阻滯。終端移動使用者因漫遊而必經歷換手，從換手前的服務阻斷起算，
至換手後使用者真正重新取得服務的時間區段。對終端使用者來說，使用網路的真實感受是他們真正在乎的，而服務阻滯
延遲方為終端使用者真正能感受到的服務遞延。因漫遊所必經歷的換手，以及因換手所造成的驗證程序所帶來的服務延遲
必為終端使用者所不樂見。 
但是對於要確保大量多媒體資料傳輸的連續性，同時又要兼顧無線終端裝置的移動特性，並對 
使用者做出適切的認證與授權以降低服務重新接續的延誤，這對需要提供穩定傳輸品質的無線 
網路來說，是極大的挑戰。 
因此本研究目的，提出一個如何在異質網路、跨服務網域進行換手機制，同時結合IMS 換手的訊息，建立一套跨網域且跨
層的換手機制，以減少使用者在跨網域使用IMS 服務時所遇到服務阻滯延遲，進一步的讓使用者可以感受到跨網域使用多
媒體服務的便利性。 
 
三, 研究方法與成果 
以當前的行動網路環境來看，系統營運商有可能同時具備2種以上的無線網路環境，所以當使用者在IMS上使用服務時，
有可能因為移動而從目前的網路移動到其他的異質網路，如:由UMTS網路移動至WiMAX網路，當使用者由原本的網路連結上
新的接取網路而認證授權後使用者可能無法馬上繼續使用IMS的服務，因為換手到它網後IMS還需經過再一次的認證授權和
QoS資源保留後，才可以繼續使用先前的服務，但是因等待過久的時間，可能造成服務的延遲或中斷，但是使用者當然希望
原先所使用的服務不中斷，甚至不會有服務延遲的現象，所以這勢必對正在使用IMS服務的使用者產生很大的影響。  
  IMS針對其使用者在經過接取網路的驗證後再行認證與授權的程序，對於進行換手的行動終端之訊務接續的延誤所造成的
影響已有其他論文討論，並提出一次驗證的方法，減卻接取網路與IMS雙重驗證的繁複，進而提昇換手流程的順暢性，以期
達到無縫換手的目標。然而，此類文章並未將IMS對行動終端訊務之QoS的授權納入考慮。經研究發現行動終端換手時所需
經歷的QoS授權程序之延誤對於即時性訊務的負面影響並不亞於雙重驗證。因此，就此論題，本文試圖藉由MIH的引入與協
助，以研究提前QoS授權程序的可行性，並期能真正從終端使用者的使用經驗提昇換手的順暢性。  
本報告將以 Hard Handover 的方式為前提，包括我們所提出的 IMS 結合 UMTS and WiMAX 的 Interworking 架構及引入 MIH
機制的 MS 結合 UMTS and WiMAX 的 Interworking 架構，引入 MIH 機制後 WiMAX to UTMS 的 Handover 程序及改良後的 IMS
註冊程序及 QoS 資源保留程序，與進行效益的分析。 
 
因篇幅關係 大致 summarize 重點如下: 
 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 1.2 Proposed IMS QoS pre-negotiation handover procedure - handover network selection 
 
 
8 
 
圖 1.3  Proposed IMS QoS pre-negotiation handover procedure - QoS resource pre-negotiation and 
reservation 
 
◎ Measurement Report：  
   Link_Parameter_Change表是當連線的參數，低於MIH User所設定 
   的門檻（如：連線速度、QoS等等），就發出訊息通知MIH User。 
   MIH的Link_Parameter在MIH的規格中有詳細的說明。 
◎ Information Query：  
MIH_Get_Information則是表示要跟MIIS Server拿存放在MIIS Server的網路資訊，在MIH的規格中
MIH_Get_Information.request所帶的Request參數如下列所示[20]，MIH_Get_Information.request 
(DestinationIdentifier,InfoQueryBinaryDataList,InfoQuery 
RDFDataList,InfoQueryRDFSchemaURL,InfoQueryRDFSchemaList,MaxResponseSize,QuerierNetworkType,Unauthenti
catedInformationRequest)。其詳細的參數說明請參考表1所示，因為有了以上的參數，因此MIH_Get_Informat就可以
從MIIS Server取得網路資訊。 
Name  Data type Description 
Destination Identifier MIHF_ID The local MIHF or a remote MIHF that will be the 
destination of this request. 
InfoQueryBinaryDataList LIST(IQ_BIN_DATA) (Optional) A list of TLV queries. The order of the 
queries in the list identifies the priority of the query. 
The first query has the highest priority to be processed 
by MIIS. See Table F.15 for detailed 
definition. 
InfoQueryRDFDataList LIST(IQ_RDF_DATA) (Optional) A list of RDF queries. The order of the 
queries in the list identifies the priority of the query. 
The first query has the highest priority to be processed 
by MIIS. See Table F.16 for detailed 
definition. 
InfoQueryRDFSchemaURL BOOLEAN (Optional) A RDF Schema URL query. This field is 
required only when the value is “TRUE,” which 
indicates 
to query a list of RDF schema URLs. 
InfoQueryRDFSchemaList LIST(IQ_RDF_SCHM) (Optional) A list of RDF schema queries. The order 
of the queries in the list identifies the priority of the 
query. The first query has the highest priority to be 
processed by MIIS. 
MaxResponseSize UNSIGNED_INT(2) (Optional) This field specifies the maximum size of 
Info Response parameters in MIH_Get_Information 
response primitive in octets. If this field is not 
10 
 
only included when MN is using Mobile IPv4. 
AccessRouterAddress IP_ADDR (Optional) IP address of current Access Router. It 
is 
only included when MN is using IPv6. 
表 2 MIH_MN_HO_Candidate_Query.request Parameters 
◎ Resource Reservation：  
   當使用者得到所需要的資訊，同時決定好想換手的目標網路後，  
   先對目標網路發送MIH_MN_HO_Commit的訊息，告知目標網路先保留換手的資源，用來測試換手是否可以成功，在MIH的
規格中MIH_MN_HO_Commit.request所帶的參數如下列所示 
MIH_MN_HO_Commit.request (DestinationIdentifier, 
LinkType,TargetNetworkInfo) ，其詳細的參數說明請參考表 
3所示。  
 
Name  Data type Description 
DestinationIdentifier MIHF_ID This specifies the MIHF ID of the serving network that is 
the target of this primitive. 
LinkType LINK_TYPE This contains the target link type. 
TargetNetworkInfo TGT_NET_INFO This contains the target network information. 
表 3 MIH_MN_HO_Commit.request Parameters 
◎ Establish New Connection：  
   開始對新網路做連接的流程。 
在不考慮各種變動參數的情況下，將未加入 MIH 協助換手流程時，整個流程完成所需的時間，每一段時間加總起來，我們
用下列公式一表示，並且將加入MIH協助換手流程後所需的時間用公式二表示，因為IMS QoS授權程序第一到第六步驟(TQoS1-6) 
及 IMS QoS 授權程序第八及第九步驟(TQoS8-9)在本文中將這兩部分提前至與網路 Handover 時一起做，因此 TQoS1-6 及 TQoS8-9的
時間與 THO的時間是重疊的，所以改良後的時間如下公式二所示。 
TTotal_HO =THO + TQoS1-6 + TQoS8-9 + TService 公式一 
 
TPromote_HO = THO + TService                    公式二 
 
12 
 
*加入 Frame Duration 變動參數分析 
  Frame Duration 是一種傳輸單位，而 Frame Duration 的大小會對傳輸的時間造成影響，如果 Frame Duration 越小，則傳輸
延遲時間也會比較小，如果 Frame Duration 越大，則傳輸延遲時間也會比較大，因此我們將 Frame Duration 的長度設定為
5ms 到 30ms，並將 Frame Duration 以 ß 表示。 
我們將 ß 帶入 TTotal_HO及 TPromote_HO的公式裡，同時調整 ß 的值，則我們將可以看到下圖 4.8 的變化，隨著 Frame Duration 的增
加，所需要的延遲時間也會越大，但是我們還是可以很清楚的看到，即使是這樣，本篇論文所提出的改良流程還是比原始
的流程所造成的時間延遲要來的小。 
 
圖 5 加入 Frame Duration 後的時間延遲分析 
 
 
 
四, 參考文獻 
1. 3GPP TS 22.228, Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia core network subsystem, 
Stage 1 (Release 7). 3rd Generation Partnership Project. 2007. 
2. SIP and 802.21 for Service Mobility and Pro‐active Authentication. Silvana, Greco Polito and Schulzrinne, 
Henning. 2008. 2008 Communication Networks and Services Research Conference (CNSR 2008). pp. 176‐182. 
3. Renier, Thibault, et al. Mid‐Session Macro‐Mobility in IMS‐Based Networks. Vehicular Technology 
Magazine, IEEE. March 2007, Vol. 2, pp. 20‐27. 
4. Munir, Arslan and Gordon‐Ross, Ann. SIP‐Based IMS Signaling Analysis for WiMax‐3G Interworking 
Architectures. Mobile Computing, IEEE Transactions on. May 2010, Vol. 9, pp. 733‐750. 
5. Guenkova‐Luy, Teodora, Kassler, Andreas J. and Mandato, Davide. End‐to‐end quality‐of‐service 
行政院國家科學委員會補助出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                              100 年  10  月  6  日 
報告人姓名  
吳中實 
服務校院
（科系所）
                      
中央大學通訊所 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2010/10/20~2010/10/22 中
國蘇州 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC-99-2221-E-008-013 
會議 
名稱 
  2010 International Conference on Wireless Communications and 
Signal Processing (WCSP 2010) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
  A Spectrum Sharing Method Based on Fuzzy Logic in IEEE 802.22 WRAN 
報告內容包括下列各項：  
一、 參加會議經過：此會議於早上八點半準時開幕， 在一個 keynote speech 後,第二天 上午
第二個 session 的第二場是由筆者報告論文的內容。三個小時後此 session 結束，與來自其他許
多國家之專家學者相互交換意見，討論論文的內容。其他兩天都是由來自世界各地的專家報告各
自的論文。 
二、 與會心得：此次會議主辦單位特別於中國蘇州的中央賓館舉辦，雖然交通不便但蘇州充滿
古蹟,地處上海附近。在這樣新舊夾雜的地方舉辦研討會令人心曠神怡的與外國專家相互交流，
除了讓國外人士也能了解我們在中央大學的研究外，彼此相互建議未來的研究方向，與如何解決
研究上可能遇上的難題，也讓筆者結交了許多來自世界各地的專家學者，了解各國的文化與差
異。國際會議中是以英文口頭方式發表論文，自己的研究成果發表後還需要接受在場的人士提
問，並給予答覆。參加本次研討會也大幅提升自己的世界觀，思考的層次也不再侷限於自己的學
校或者單單在台灣而已。希望未來能夠經常透過這樣的方式拓展外界對我們研究的認識，同時也
可以學習以截然不同的角度思考未來的研究。 
三、 建 議：此次參加會議，確實有助於提升國際化視野、見解與跨國溝通能力，建議多派員參
加此類國際學術會議。由於教師能夠補助學生的額度有限，更應加提高補助的額度，吸引學生出
國發表，增加學生與國際交流的機會，拓展博士生的國際觀，培養優秀人才。 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容: Conference electronic proceeding，包含所有場次演講的投稿論
文與大會相關資訊。 
 
 
User name and password should be registered by authors
More details can be found at:
http://www.ic-wcsp.org/WCSP2010-IEEE_PDF_eXpress_Instructions.pdf
If your source file has been successfully converted by IEEE PDF
eXpress tool, a corresponding PDF file will be sent to you shortly via
e-mail. If not, the results will be sent via e-mail shortly and your
paper should be revised according to the requirement.
Upload your final camera-ready paper on EDAS before the deadline
(August 31, 2010, HKT 11:59:59.)
3: IEEE Copyright Form
In order for your paper to be published in the conference
proceedings, a signed IEEE Copyright Form must be submitted for each
paper. WCSP 2010 has registered to use the IEEE electronic Copyright
Form (eCF) service. The confirmation page shown after submitting your
final paper contains a button linking directly to a secure IEEE eCF
site which allows electronic completion of the copyright assignment
process.
In case it fails, please have the completed IEEE Copyright
Form, found at
http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/copyrightmain.html
Complete it, scan it and email the scanned copy as a pdf file to wcsp@ic-wcsp.org
4: Registration
Register for the conference by clicking on the conference
registration link on the home page shown below.
http://www.ic-wcsp.org/Registration.html
IMPORTANT:
For each paper, at least one of the authors must register for the
conference, which means your registration fee is at least ＄350
(~2400RMB-IEEE Member ) or ＄380(~2600RMB-Non-IEEE Member)
Before 17:00 CST (GMT+8) August 31, 2010 (Even for the students).
One author registration covers a maximum of two accepted papers.
i.e. if you have two accepted papers, you only need to pay for one
full rate registering fees.
For helping us to track this payment transmission,you must send the scanned payment receipt copy
b頁 2 - 5(B)
2011/10/5
and scientific rigour.
Valid work but marginal or incremental contribution (2)
> *** Relevance and Timeliness: Rate the importance of the topic addressed in the paper and its
timeliness within its area of research.
Average (2)
> *** Quality of presentation: Rate the paper organization, the clearness of text and figures, the
completeness and accuracy of references.
Readable (2)
> *** Overall Recommendation: We expect an acceptance rate of about 50% in this year's WCSP
2010 paper selection process. Please bear this in mind when providing your recommendation. Also,
please note that the final decisions will be based on your detailed comments provided in response to
the following questions.
Accept only if room (2)
> *** Questions for reviewer: Questions for reviewer
======= TPC reviewer 2 =======
> *** Strengths: Comments to the author: what are the strong aspects of the paper?
The paper proposed a fuzzy logic control resource management scheme for IEEE 802.22 WRAN.
> *** Weaknesses: Comments to the author: what are the weak aspects of the paper?
There are many existing work on using fuzzy logic control for network resource management and
mobility management (handling handoff). The paper should discuss the novelty of this approach
compared to the previous ones.
To apply FLC in a practical WRAN system, how to train the FLC might be a challenging issue. The
authors should address the cost of such training.
The presentation quality of the paper needs improvement.
> *** Novelty and originality: Rate the novelty and originality of the work presented in the paper.
Some novel results on a subject well investigated (2)
> *** Technical content and correctness: Rate the technical contribution of the paper, its soundness
and scientific rigour.
Valid work but marginal or incremental contribution (2)
> *** Relevance and Timeliness: Rate the importance of the topic addressed in the paper and its
timeliness within its area of research.
Average (2)
> *** Quality of presentation: Rate the paper organization, the clearness of text and figures, the
completeness and accuracy of references.
Readable (2)
> *** Overall Recommendation: We expect an acceptance rate of about 50% in this year's WCSP
2010 paper selection process. Please bear this in mind when providing your recommendation. Also,
please note that the final decisions will be based on your detailed comments provided in response to
b頁 4 - 5(B)
2011/10/5
A Spectrum Sharing Method based on Fuzzy Logic in 
IEEE 802.22 WRAN  
Shun-Fang Yang1,2 
1: Department of Communication Engineering,  
National Central University 
Chung-Li, Taiwan 
Jung-Shyr Wu1 
2:Telecommunication Laboratories,  
ChungHwa Telecom Co., Ltd., 
Yang-Mei, Taiwan
 
Abstract— This paper follows IEEE 802.22 proposed coexistence 
beacon protocol (CBP), the mechanism carry the information of 
dynamic resource renting and offering to solve the problem of 
spectrum sharing for inter-BS (Base Station) coexistence 
mechanism. Due to high flexibility and low complexity, fuzzy 
rules based on empirical laws can dynamically adjust parameters 
to control the radio resources. The fuzzy logic control (FLC) 
spectrum sharing for Inter-BS coexistence mechanism is chosen 
to make effective utilization of resources in IEEE 802.22 WRAN. 
The proposed scheme considers three kinds of traffic, voice, video 
and data respectively. The simulation results reveal that the 
proposed scheme can meet the goals of the dynamic spectrum 
sharing to improve resource utilization and fairness. 
Keywords- spectrum sharing, IEEE 802.22, Inter-BS 
coexistence 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
The increasing of wireless multimedia application and 
wireless network technology has significant process in recent 
years. It is evident that there will be no enough spectrum 
available for all wireless networks currently under deployment 
and development. Furthermore, the inefficient spectrum 
resource utilization makes spectrum resource exhaust 
gradually. Therefore, it is anticipated that more flexible 
spectrum sharing in radio systems will be key enablers to 
facilitate the successful implementation of future wireless 
systems. In order to manage and mitigate interference in both 
existing and future wireless networks, it is essential to employ 
rules and etiquettes for spectrum sharing in a given 
geographical area [1-8]. 
In order to satisfy growing demands for radio resources, 
IEEE 802.22 specifies a wireless regional area network 
(WRAN) draft standard using the cognitive radio network 
technology [9] for the integration and management of radio 
resources to improve radio resource utilization to achieve the 
objective of spectrum sharing. IEEE 802.22 WRAN is 
developing for broadband access in rural areas, it consists of a 
base station (BS) and customer premises equipments (CPE) 
connected to the BS. With a BS antenna height of 75-150m, 
the maximum distance between BS and CPE is typically 30-40 
km, but in special cases it could be 100 km. The 802.22 
WRANs will operate in the TV spectrum band, as secondary 
users, under regulatory rules to avoid inference with the 
primary users, i.e., TV broadcasting services and wireless 
microphones. The appearance of a primary user in the channel 
the WRAN system is using should be detected, and the 
WRAN system should move to a vacant channel. The BS 
should be registered so that possible harmful interference to 
licensed devices can be easily resolved. [10] 
Although avoiding harmful interference to licensed 
incumbents is the prime concern, another key design 
challenges to 802.22 WRANs is how to dynamically share 
spectrum among the collocated WRAN cells so that the 
performance degradation, due to mutual co-channel 
interference, is effectively mitigated [10]. Self-coexistence 
addresses dynamic spectrum sharing among collocated IEEE 
802.22 cells, and it is a critical issue given its unlicensed 
operation and its very large coverage range. The IEEE 802.22 
draft standard [9] addresses self-coexistence through the 
coexistence beacon protocol (CBP). CBP behaves in both 
receive and transmit mode, it allows CPEs and BSs to transmit 
coexistence beacons which carry enough information to 
achieve adequate coexistence and dynamic spectrum sharing 
among overlapping cells. In this mechanism, one main 
challenge is to allocate offeror BS’s channel resource (time 
and frequency) between several neighboring renter BSs 
competing for the use of the radio resources in a given 
geographical area whiling ensuring access fairness.  
This paper uses the CBP to carry the information of 
dynamical resource renting and offering and focuses on 
solving the spectrum sharing scheme for inter-BS coexistence. 
Due to high flexibility and low complexity, fuzzy rules based 
on empirical laws can dynamically adjust parameters to 
control the radio resources. The fuzzy logic control (FLC) 
spectrum sharing for Inter-BS coexistence mechanism is 
chosen to make effective utilization of resources in IEEE 
802.22 WRAN. The proposed fuzzy logic based scheme 
considering three kinds of traffic, voice, video and data 
respectively. The simulation results reveal that the proposed 
scheme can meet the goals of the dynamic spectrum sharing to 
improve resource utilization and fairness. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: several related 
works are described in Section II. The proposed fuzzy based 
spectrum sharing scheme is explained in Section III. Then the 
performance evaluation and numerical results are discussed in 
section IV. Finally, section V concludes this paper. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
Although spectrum sharing for cognitive radio networks is 
similar to traditional channel allocation problem in that they 
978-1-4244-7555-1/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE
domain. In the OFDMA system, a BIN (e,g., one OFDM 
symbol * sub-channel) is the smallest radio resource unit  that 
can be offered for renting by the offeror BS, and a radio 
channel is composed of a number of BINs. A radio channel 
can be shared by the trading strategy between one offeror BS 
and one or more renter BSs. 
 
Figure 3  Spectrum sharing system model for 802.22 WRANs 
The resource manager, conceptually located at the MAC 
sublayer in the BS, is the cognitive function at the BS that will 
use the inputs from the spectrum sensing function, location 
information, the incumbent database to decide on the TV 
channel to be used by the WRAN cell as well as the transmit 
power limits imposed on the specific CPEs. The relationships 
between the resource manager, trading strategy function, 
resource distribution function and spectrum etiquette function 
are depicted in Figure 3.  
Resource manager at an offeror BS analyzes whether there 
are enough remaining channel resources could be rent. If there 
are enough resources, offeror BS broadcasts advertisement 
message to other BSs. Resource manager at a renter BS 
analyzes whether it needs additional channel resources. If the 
renter BS needs additional channel resources, it collects the 
message from the offeror BSs and delivers the information to 
the trading strategy function. The information includes the 
amount of BINs, time and frequency interval for which the 
renter BS applies. The inputs of the trading strategy function 
also include the QoS requirement of all CPEs under this renter 
BS. The resource usage at each BS is ruled by the spectrum 
etiquette. For example, the rules can specify the trading 
strategy and the resource distribution approach. We will 
discuss three rules in this paper, i.e., fuzzy-based, auction-
based and balanced/average-based spectrum sharing. 
The objectives of spectrum sharing among 802.22 WRANs 
include the lower blocking rate, the higher radio utilization 
and the coexistence fairness. The proposed resource renting 
and offering flow chart is shown in Figure 4. At first, we make 
some reasonable assumption for spectrum sharing in 802.22 
inter-BS coexistence as follows:  
1) The associated CPEs support three kind of  traffic types, 
i.e., video, voice and data. 
2) The system sensing function operates in the TV band 
without creating harmful interference to licensed 
services. 
3) CBP enables reliable, efficient and scalable inter-
network communication in support of inter-network 
coordination functions. 
The detailed fuzzy based spectrum sharing process can be 
organized into four steps as follows: 
1) Offeror BS initiates offering procedure to share its 
ready resources by sending a advertisement message to 
Renter BS. 
2) Renter BS uses fuzzy logic to calculate the demand 
resources from CPEs and sends a resource request 
message to Offeror BS. 
3) Offeror BS determines the demand resources of each 
Renter BS and decides the priority of each Renter BS 
by using the fuzzy values. 
4) Renter BS rents the channel resources to admit the CPE 
connections. 
 
Figure 4 The proposed resource renting and offering flow chart 
The proposed scheme is based on FLS, as it is shown in 
Figure 5. The FLS is in charge of estimating the channel 
resource (RS) and the fuzzy value (FV) for each BS. The FLS 
is characterized by two inputs, the signal strength (SS) and 
data rate (DR) of each CPE. The FLC calculates the resource 
demand, determines the channel resources offered to each 
renter BS and prioritizes each renter BS using the fuzzy value. 
 
Figure 5 Block diagram of fuzzy-based spectrum sharing 
The FLS decision procedures operate in three steps, namely 
fuzzification, inference engine and defuzzification [15]. The 
objective of the fuzzification process is to assign, for each 
input linguistic variable, a value between 0 and 1 
corresponding to the degree of membership of the input to a 
given fuzzy set. The degree of membership values is obtained 
through membership functions. These input and output 
variables have five fuzzy sets: “Very High” (VHi), “High” 
(Hi), “Medium” (Med), “Low”, and “Very Low” (VLow). The 
membership functions of the input fuzzy variables are shown 
. ( )
4
4
1j
jL
%Avg_L
∑
=
=  
(6) 
 
In order to evaluate scheme from the fairness point view, 
the Jain Fairness Index (FI) [20] is used in the evaluation. In 
equation (3), N is the number of BS, Ti is the channel resource 
requested from the BSi, and Ai is the the channel resource 
distributed for the BSi. The closer to one FI means that the 
fairer the spectrum sharing. 
The comparison of fairness index is shown in Figure 9. The 
comparison of blocking rate of all traffic types and is 
simulated. For brevity, there is only the performance of video 
traffic shown in this paper. We have compared auction based, 
balanced/average based and the proposed fuzzy logic based 
spectrum sharing schemes. The comparison of blocking rate of 
video traffic is shown in Figure 10. The comparison of the 
degree of the resource utilization is shown is Figure 11. 
 
Figure 9 The comparison of fairness index 
 
Figure 10 The blocking rate of video traffic  
 
Figure 11 Comparison of the degree of the resource utilization 
V. CONCLUSIONS  
This paper uses the CBP to carry the information of dynamical 
resource renting and offering and focuses on solving the 
spectrum sharing scheme for inter-BS coexistence. The fuzzy 
logic control (FLC) spectrum sharing for Inter-BS coexistence 
mechanism is chosen to make effective utilization of resources 
in IEEE 802.22 WRAN. The proposed fuzzy logic based 
scheme considering three kinds of traffic, voice, video and 
data respectively. The simulation results reveal that the 
proposed scheme can meet the goals of the dynamic spectrum 
sharing to improve resource utilization and fairness. 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Qing Zhao and Brian M. Sadler,” A Survey of Dynamic Spectrum 
Access: [Signal processing, networking, and regulatory policy”, IEEE 
SIGNAL PROCESSING MAGAZINE [79] MAY 2007 
[2] Ekram Hossain, Vijay Bhargava, “Cognitive Wireless Communication 
Networks”, Springer 2007 
[3] C. Cordeiro, K. Challapali and M. Ghosh, "Cognitive PHY and MAC 
layers for dynamic spectrum access and sharing of TV bands," in 
Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Technology and 
Policy for Accessing Spectrum, 2006, 
[4] S. Haykin, "Cognitive radio: brain-empowered wireless 
communications," IEEE J. Select. Areas Commun., vol. 23, pp. 201-220, 
2005. 
[5] S. Srinivasa and S. A. Jafar, "Cognitive Radio Networks: How much 
Spectrum Sharing is Optimal?" Submitted to the IEEE Transactions on 
Wireless Communications, 2007. 
[6] K. David, "Technologies for the Wireless Future: Wireless World 
Research Forum, Volume 3," 2008. 
[7] J. Mitola III and G. Maguire Jr, "Cognitive radio: making software 
radios more personal," IEEE Personal Communications, vol. 6, pp. 13-
18, 1999. 
[8] I. F. Akyildiz, W. Y. Lee, M. C. Vuran and S. Mohanty, "NeXt 
generation/dynamic spectrum access/cognitive radio wireless networks: 
a survey," Computer Networks, vol. 50, pp. 2127-2159, 2006. 
[9] IEEE 802.22 Working Group on Wireless Regional Area Networks 
[10] C. Stevenson, G. Chouinard, L. Zhongding, H. Wendong, S. 
Shellhammer and W. Caldwell, "IEEE 802.22: The First Cognitive 
Radio Wireless Regional Area Network Standard," IEEE 
Communications Magazine, vol. 47,No.1, 2009. 
[11] D. Grandblaise, K. Moessner, G. Vivier and R. Tafazolli, "Credit token 
based rental protocol for dynamic channel allocation," in Cognitive 
Radio Oriented Wireless Networks and Communications, 2006. 1st 
International Conference on, 2006, pp. 1-5. 
[12] J. Huang, R. Berry and M. Honig, "Auction-based spectrum sharing. 
ACM," Kluwer Journal of Mobile Networks and Applications 
(MONET) Special Issue on WiOpt, vol. 4,2006. 
[13] S. Sengupta, R. Chandramouli, S. Brahma and M. Chatterjee, "A Game 
Theoretic Framework for Distributed Self-Coexistence Among IEEE 
802.22 Networks," IEEE GLOBECOM, 2008. 
[14] D. Niyato and E. Hossain, "Spectrum trading in cognitive radio 
networks: A market-equilibrium-based approach," IEEE Wireless 
Communications, vol. 15, pp. 71-80, 2008.  
[15] L.X. Wang, A Course in Fuzzy Systems and Control. Prentice Hall, 
1997. 
[16] H. S. T. Le and H. D. Ly, "Opportunistic spectrum access using fuzzy 
logic for cognitive radio networks," in Communications and Electronics, 
2008. ICCE 2008. Second International Conference on, 2008, pp. 240-
245. 
[17] L. Giupponi and A. I. Perez-Neira, "Fuzzy-based spectrum handoff in 
cognitive radio networks," in Cognitive Radio Oriented Wireless 
Networks and Communications, 2008. CrownCom 2008. 3rd 
International Conference on, 2008, pp. 1-6. 
[18] N. Baldo and M. Zorzi, "Cognitive network access using fuzzy decision 
making," in IEEE International Conference on Communications, 2007. 
ICC'07, 2007, pp. 6504-6510. 
[19] N. Baldo and M. Zorzi, "Fuzzy logic for cross-layer optimization in 
cognitive radio networks," in 4th IEEE Consumer Communications and 
Networking Conference, 2007. CCNC 2007, 2007, pp. 1128-1133. 
[20] W. Hu, M. Gerla, G. Vlantis and G. Pottie, "Efficient, flexible, and 
scalable inter-network spectrum sharing and communications in 
cognitive IEEE 802.22 networks," in Cognitive Radio and Advanced 
Spectrum Management, 2008. CogART 2008. First International 
Workshop on, 2008, pp. 1-5. 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳中實 計畫編號：99-2221-E-008-013- 
計畫名稱：IMS 多媒體子系統於多重酬載無線通訊網路平台之換手程序改良化之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 1 100%  
博士生 0 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
