中文摘要 
現今網路中，存在著許多網路安全性威脅，根據賽門鐵克及IDC近幾年的數
據指出，網路攻擊種類越來越多，也越來越嚴重，尤其在網頁伺服器、郵件伺服
器以及病毒的部分最為明顯，其威脅性皆是位居排名前幾名。這些攻擊透過網路
傳輸方式對使用者已造成相當地威脅，特別的是攻擊方式已由過去的單一型態攻
擊變形成整合型攻擊，例如以特洛伊木馬程式對主機植入後門再進行分散式阻斷
服務攻擊。傳統使用者對複合型攻擊進行的防禦方式，針對特定攻擊採用特定防
禦系統，所以往往同時需要使用多套的防禦系統，但對複合型攻擊的防禦效果不
見得高，而且會降低主機的效能，因此現階段需要一套完整的硬體防禦系統，以
針對多種複合式攻擊同時進行防禦，本計畫提出一套「應用於網路系統中阻斷服
務及病毒之防禦系統晶片設計與實作」，在封包進入到郵件伺服器之前，就先藉
由此系統進行掃瞄過濾，將病毒或阻斷服務攻擊進行攔截防範，使得有問題的封
包無法進入後端受保護的伺服器，以提高伺服器整體安全以及伺服器運行效能。
本計劃之複合型攻擊防範系統晶片具有下列特色： 
1. 以病毒特徵碼及網路行為分析方法提高攻擊防範效率。 
2. 系統晶片可高速處理及攔截攻擊與病毒。 
 
關鍵詞：網路安全、病毒、異常防禦 
英文摘要 
Nowadays, there are more and more security threatens. According to Symantec 
and IDC’s Internet security reports, network attacks are expanding from single-type to 
composite type. Those sophisticated attacks are possible with application and 
malicious code attacks. Current security solutions (including attack detection, alert 
correlation and prevention) take too system resources to defense with high speed and 
volume composite-type attacks. We propose a composite-type attack defense system 
research called “Design and Implementation of SoC for DoS and Virus 
Detection/Prevention for Network System”. Our composite-type attack defense 
system has the following state-of-art characteristics: 
1. Using Virus Character Code rather than Virus Definition: provide higher 
detection accuracy on Mutation Virus. 
2. Network Behavior Analysis Method: prevent composite-type attacks. 
3. System on Chip (SoC): offer the high speed performance. 
 
Keywords：Network Security, Virus, Anomaly detection  
 
 
paper, we propose an integrated approach called SMTP Intrusion Prevention System 
(SIPS) which bases on the concept of Protocol Anomaly Detection (PAD) [3][4] and 
integrated with flow-based inspection to examine whether the email flows deviate 
from the normal behavior.  
2. Background and Related Work  
  SMTP attacks and spam mails have become one of the most serious problems. In 
this section, we will introduce conventional anti-spam approaches and conventional 
prevention approaches of SMTP attacks.  
2.1 Conventional Prevention Approaches of SMTP Attacks  
  Most of mail systems are vulnerable due to the openness of email standards and 
wide security holes. The attacks are including DoS (Denial of Service), buffer flow 
and so on. Many techniques have been developed in order to prevent such attacks. 
These techniques can be classified into two kinds of approaches:  
A Signature-based Detection is commonly referred to the negative approach 
because it aims at the behavior known as “abnormal behavior” and assumes 
everything else as “normal behavior”.  
B Protocol Anomaly Detection is commonly referred to the positive approach 
because it detects “normal behavior” of the specific protocol. Protocol 
Anomaly Detection aims at protocol misusage.  
2.2 Conventional Anti-spam Approaches  
  According to the deployment location, Anti-spam can be categorized as:  
A. The first one is general anti-spam approach on the end-user (personal computer) 
such as PC-cillin, Norton Anti-virus and other anti-virus software. But the 
main shortcoming is that spam mails have been sent to our computer and these 
anti-virus software only sort normal emails from the spam.  
B. The second is anti-spam approach on a Message Transfer Agent (MTA) such as 
Procmail and other software. This approach can prevent an end-user from 
receiving spam mails. Spam mails are deleted directly in the MTA. As the 
MTA needs more disk storage and resource to process these mails (including 
spam mails and normal email), MTA’s performance will be decreased.  
C. The third is anti-spam approach in front of MTA (Proxy or Gateway). This 
approach mainly aims at deep inspection on MTA’s SMTP connection, 
checking whether the email flows is normal or not. The system will reject the 
  
Figure 1.  Environment of SMTP IPS. 
  SMTP IPS can be placed before the protected email servers in Internet shown in 
Fig. 1. Any email attacks sending to the protected email server will be detected and 
filtered by SMTP IPS. SMTP IPS also decreases the loading of email server 
administration and increases the performance of service. 
  The design of SMTP Intrusion Prevention System with Virus Detection Engine can 
be divided into two parts: SMTP Protocol Anomaly Detection and Virus Detection as 
in Fig. 2. The system also includes an off-chip memory. 
 
Figure 2.  Architecture of SMTP IPS. 
A. Design of SMTP Protocol Anomaly Detection 
  Most of email systems are vulnerable due to the openness of email standards and 
wide security holes. The attacks are including denial-of-service, buffer overflow, 
message/partial MIME, mail bomb and so on, and many techniques have been 
developed in order to prevent these attacks. These techniques can be classified into 
two kinds of approaches:  
B. Design of Virus Detection 
  Virus detection has fewer implementations in hardware because of virus changing 
variety. The approaches [11-14] of hardware-based virus detection technique are 
usually signature-based in recent years. These approaches can be classified into three 
kinds: Hash Function, CAM, and Bloom Filter. Hash function is simply implementing, 
but cost more computation time than the other two. CAM results in high speed and 
high accuracy. To implement variety virus detection, CAM cost expensive and is 
difficult to update virus definitions. And CAM is also used large area in hardware 
design. 
  Bloom filter [15] is a data structure that stores a set of signatures compactly by 
computing multiple hash functions on each member of the set. The amount of storage 
required by the bloom filter for each signature is independent of its length. Bloom 
filter can detect signature without degrading computation performance. But its request 
of signature may get a false positive answer. 
  We integrate bloom filter and hash function together in the design of Virus 
Detection shown in Fig. 4. The system does the second comparison (Hash Function 
Compare) after Bloom Filter Compare. The false positive problem from bloom filter 
comparison will be eliminated. It has the advantage of high computation performance 
and no false positive problem. It is also easily to extend virus definitions in memory. 
 
Figure 4.  Flow chart of Virus Detection Engine. 
4. System Architecture 
 Figure 6.  Architecture of Parallel SMTP Protocol Anomaly Detection Engine. 
D. Design of Virus Detection Engine 
Address
Switch
Read_Enable
Virus_Buffer
(Catch_Length)
Match
FI
FO
 (D
at
a 
flo
w
) 32K Bytes
Read_Address Addr_buf_0
Off-Chip Memory
Coun_compare
Addr_buf_1
Addr_buf_2
Addr_buf_3
Bloom 
Filter
Hash_1
Hash_2
Hash 
Function
SRAM
(Length)
SRAM
(Data)
 
Figure 7.  Architecture of Virus Detection Engine. 
 
Figure 8.  Simulation of Bloom Filter size versus false positive rate. 
 Figure 9.  Layout of SMTP IPS. 
  Fig. 9 shows the layout of SMTP IPS ASIC. It made in TSMC 0.13um, and its 
power consumption is 32mW. Main area of SRAM has taken 1.036*0.811 mm2, and 
the whole area is 1.684*1.668 mm2. The frequency is 515MHz, and the minimum 
transmission rate can reach 4.12 Gbps . 
  The comparison of the virus detection of SMTP IPS with other related works can 
be found in Table II. SMTP IPS has high network throughput than others related 
works, and also has the benefits of low cost and high scalability potential. 
TABLE II.  COMPARISON OF RELATED WORKS 
Design SMTP IPS 
Hash+ 
Memory[
9] 
Bloom  
Filter[6] TCAM[10] BiTCAM[7] 
Key module 
Bloom 
Filter+SRA
M 
Hash+ 
RAM 
Bloom 
Filter+RAM TCAM 
BiTCAM+ 
SRAM 
Application 
Rule 
Clamav 
30k rules 
Snort 
2k rules 
 
20k rules 
Snort 
2k rules 
Clamav 
30k rules 
Memory/Rules 
on the Processor 8.5 bits/rule -- 30 bits/rule
120 
Bytes/rule 6 bits/rule 
On-chip 
Memory Area 1.0*0.8mm
2 -- -- -- 1.3*1.6 mm2 
Off-chip 
Memory 15MB 2MB -- -- 8MB 
Throughput 4.12Gbps 2.6Gbps 3.1Gbps 2Gbps 3.04Gbps 
False Positive -- -- FP -- -- 
Scalable Easy Easy 
Normal 
(Increase 
FP) 
Hard Easy 
[12] Ni Zhang; BinXing Fang; Li Guo and Yu Jiang, “A NewApproach for Detecting 
Abnormal Email Traffic in Backbone Network”, International Conf. on 
Computational Intelligence and Security, 2006. 
[13] Papadopoulos, G.; Pnevmatikatos, D., “Hashing + memory = low cost, exact 
pattern matching”, International Conference on Field Programmable Logic and 
Applications, 2005. 
[14] Fang Yu, Katz, R.H., Lakshman, T.V., “Gigabit rate packet pattern-matching 
using TCAM”, IEEE ICNP 2004. 
[15] Sarang Dharmapurikar, Praveen Krishnamurthy, Todd S. Sproull, and John W. 
Lockwood, “Deep Packet Inspection Using Parallel Bloom Filters”, IEEE Micro, Vol 
24, Issue 1, pp. 52-61, 2004. 
 
表 Y04 
• Image Engineering, Multimedia Signal Processing and Communication Security  
 
除了上述之領域外，亦有 18 個 special sections 分述如下： 
z Data Hiding Techniques 
z Watermarking Techniques, Steganography and Visual Cryptography 
z Internet Security and Electronic Commerce Security 
z Cryptography and Its Application 
z Multimedia in Ubiquitous Computing and Security Services 
z Image Retrieval and Image Analysis 
z System-on-Chip for Signal Processing 
z Multimedia Signal Processing for Public Safety and Privacy 
z Information Security 
z Multimedia Processing and Multimedia Interaction 
z Information and Network Technology for Security and Safety in Digital Homes 
z 3D Model Retrieval and Data Hiding 
z Security in Sensor Networks 
z E-Commerce and E-Payment security 
z Digital Rights Management 
z Image Processing and Intelligent Control 
z Wireless Security 
z Soft Computing and Hybrid Intelligent Approaches in Computer Security (SCHICS 2009) 
z Image Engineering and Network Security 
 
與會心得： 
此次與會人員，來自多個國家，分別有美國、日本、印度、中國大陸、韓國、香港、
澳洲及台灣等國，幾乎世界主要國家皆有相關人員參與盛會。 
此次大會提供一個很好的場合，可與其他國家在資安方面的人才互相討論，瞭解目前
相關研究，以提供未來在這方面研究的參考方向，除了吸收相關專業知識外，亦可與相關
的研究人員互動，增加國際觀、吸取其精華，並提升台灣能見度，期能為未來國內產、官、
學界注入更多新的思維。 
