is based on the presence of a paramagnetic substance, 
such as deoxy-hemoglobin (Hb), that can interfere with 
the magnetic field so as to reduce the intensity of signals. 
Activation of neurons can stimulate vasodilatation 
indirectly and overcompensate the regional cerebral 
blood flow so as to introduce more oxygen and glucose. 
This causes the ratio of paramagnetic deoxy-Hb in blood 
to be reduced when the neural activity increases, 
resulting in more intensive signals in activated brain 
areas.  
     Previous studies in rats using capsaicin as a 
chemical stimulant showed activation of numerous pain 
processing regions including the anterior cingulate, 
motor, and somatosensory cortices. In small animal 
nociceptive studies, formalin is one of the most 
commonly used stimulants as it evokes a pure chemical 
pain without the influence of touch or pressure, and also 
generates persisted rather than transient noxious 
sensation, thus creating a model for persistent pain. 
Formalin was used in rat brain imaging studies involving 
the rCBF tracing technique with 99mTc-exametazime 
autoradiography by Morrow et al. in 1998. 
Formalin-induced pain behavioral states have been 
previously investigated and corresponding BOLD signal 
changes in the rat spinal cord have also been 
characterized. While in 2000, Tuor et al. conduct a 
BOLD fMRI studies in rat brain showed that the 
injection of formalin into the forepaw caused significant 
signal alterations in cortical areas, subcortical activity is 
less well understood. The present study used the 
microPET and BOLD fMRI technique to study whole 
brain neuronal activity under peripheral noxious stimuli 
and was aimed to identify which brain area involve in 
pain processing.  
三、方法 
Twelve adult Wistar rats were used in microPET 
study. Seven rats was injected 1-1.2 mCi 18F-FDG as a 
radiotracer, after that they were returned to their cage 
under minimal surrounding noise for 45 min uptake. 
Following the uptake, the animals were anesthetized by 
1.5% isoflurane and positioned on a stereotaxic holder. 
Quantitative scanning was then performed by the 
microPET R4 for 30 min. Formalin studies were 
executed on the same group after one week; 5% formalin 
(50 µl) was injected into the left hindpaw following FDG 
injection. The above protocol was implemented in 
another five rats and lidocaine (4 mg/kg) was used to 
suppress the noxious response. 
For MR study, adult male Wistar rats were 
anesthetized by intraperitoneal administration of 90 
mg/kg ketamine or 70 mg/kg α-chloralose. The 
anesthetized rats were positioned on a stereotaxic holder, 
and their body temperature was maintained using a 
warm-water circulated system. A 30 G needle was fitted 
with a PE-50 catheter and inserted subcutaneously in the 
left hindpaw for latter formalin administration. MR 
images were captured using a 4.7 T Biospec 47/40 
spectrometer. A 20 cm volume coil was used as the RF 
transmitter and a 2 cm surface coil placed on the head 
was used as the receiver. A T2-weighted scout image was 
taken in the mid-sagittal plane to localize the anatomical 
position by identifying the anterior commisure (bregma 
-0.8 mm). T2-weighted template images (bregma +1.2 
mm, -0.8 mm and -2.8 mm) were acquired using spin 
echo sequences with a repetition time (TR) of 4000 ms, 
echo time (TE) of 80 ms, field of view (FOV) of 4 cm, 
slice thickness (SLTH) of 2 mm, number of repetitions 
(NEX) of 2, and an acquisition matrix of 256× 128 
(zero-filled to 256×256). A 40-repetition gradient echo 
image was acquired at the same location with a TR of 
215 ms, TE of 20 ms, flip angle of 22.5°, FOV of 4 cm, 
SLTH of 2 mm, NEX of 2, an acquisition matrix of 
256 × 64 (zero-filled to 256 × 256), and a temporal 
resolution of 27 s. For event-related image acquisition, 
the first 20 consecutive frames were categorized as 
baseline images, and the remaining 20 were collected 
after formalin was injected into the hindpaw. 
     Data were analyzed using Matlab 7. A graphic user 
interface which contains several image-processing 
 
Fig. 1. (A) Images from MRI and the rat brain atlas were registered by scaling and shifting operations. (B) Event-related 
signals superimposed on the image in A and the corresponding TAC. (C) microPET data coregistered with image in A. 
(D) incidence images calculated by averaging the correlation coefficient maps of several subjects during stimulation. 
Each correlation map was normalized to the domain of the rat brain atlas before averaging. (E) FP and CSD maps of the 
area in the ventral posterolateral thalamic nucleus that responded to stimulation of the left hindpaw.  
 
 
 
 
Fig 2. The relative intensity for each activated brain area. (A) cortex and (B) subcortical areas. The activated intensity 
was calculated by dividing the post-formalin injection image by the pre-formalin injection image. Formalin injection 
produced a 2-10% increase in BOLD signal intensity in different brain areas. Paired t-tests were performed to compare 
unstimulated and stimulated images. # denotes P<0.05, * denotes P<0.01. There were no significant side-to-side 
differences between the two hemispheres of the same structure. Data represent mean ± standard deviation. 
