1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
一個架構在有效基本虹吸計算的簡單僵局防止策略 
A Simple Deadlock Prevention Policy Based on Efficient Computation of Elementary Siphons 
計畫編號：NSC 2221－   E － 004 － 007 
執 行 期 限：96 年 08 月 01 日起至民國 99 年 07 月 31 日 
主 持 人：趙玉 政治大學資管系 
一、中文摘要 
基本虹吸的計算對僵局控制是必要昂貴的， 
這是因為需要完全列舉Petri網內虹吸和
SMS(嚴格最小虹吸管)的數量 迅速而成指數
隨著網的大小增長。我們透過提供一個反例，
發現周et al的一種多項式技術找到基本虹吸
的宣稱是錯誤的，並且能根據強連結的資源子
網(附屬SCRC) ，為一S3PR子類別計算基本
虹吸管而不需知SMS的數量。   我們提議把
它擴充到任意的S3PR 和S3PCR(用同步資源
的簡單的順序過程的系統) , S3PNR(有非釋放
資源的簡單的順序過程的系統) , S3PWR(有
加權的資源的簡單的順序過程的系統) , 
S3PGR2(簡單的順序過程的系統用 一般的資
源要求) 或者S4PR(一種一般化的Petri網的
種類) ,並且(協調選擇的系統與一般的資源一
起處理)的S2CPGR . 我們接著將研究基本虹
吸管尋找的最佳化.被提議的技術將能以多項
式時間和空間計算基本虹吸管； 不過使用周
等的傳統的僵局预防，需要列舉呈指數成長的
依賴虹吸管。我們因此提出一個簡單的僵局預
防政策而無需列舉依賴虹吸管。 
關鍵詞：Petri網, 虹吸管, 僵局 
Abstract 
Computation of elementary siphons is essential 
for deadlock control and expensive since 
complete siphon enumeration of the Petri net is 
needed and the number of SMS (Strict Minimal 
Siphons) grows quickly and exponentially with 
the size of the net. We discover that the claim of 
a polynomial technique to find elementary 
siphons by Zhou et al is incorrect by providing a 
counter example and were able to compute 
elementary siphons from strongly connected 
resource subnets (sub-SCRC) without the 
knowledge of SMS for a restrictive subclass of 
S3PR.  We propose to extend it to arbitrary 
S3PR and S3PCR (systems of simple sequential 
processes with concurrent resources), S3PNR 
(systems of simple sequential processes with 
nonreleasing resources), S3PWR (systems of 
simple sequential processes with weighted 
resources), S3PGR2 (systems of simple 
sequential processes with general resources 
requirement) or S4PR (a class of generalized 
Petri nets), and S2CPGR (System of 
Synchronized Choice Processes with General 
Resources).  We will then investigate the issue 
of optimization of searching elementary siphons.  
The proposed technique will compute 
elementary siphons in polynomial time and 
space; however, it requires enumeration of 
dependent siphons which could be exponential 
using traditional deadlock prevention approach 
by Zhou et al. We hence propose a simple 
deadlock prevention policy without enumeration 
of dependent siphons. 
Keywords: Flexible manufacturing systems, 
Deadlock prevention, Petri nets, Siphons, 
S3PR. 
 
二、緣由與目的 
3 
single resource place.  We extended BS3PR so 
that the elementary resource circuits (called 
basic circuits) do not connect in a circular 
fashion in any BS3PR.  Each elementary siphon 
remains to correspond to a basic circuit.  
However, cb1∩cb2 may be a resource directed 
path — more than a single resource place.  
Basic circuits cannot span more than two 
working processes (WP) and hence there are 
only two kinds of basic circuits: one that extends 
between adjacent WPs and the other occurs 
within a single WP.  Both can be located in 
time linear with respect to the number of 
resource places.  We have proposed algorithms 
to compute both.  We study non-BS3PR where 
a set of basic circuits may connect in a circular 
fashion to create new basic circuits.  We 
discover that the characteristic T-vector η of any 
connected component (CC) of a resource subnet 
is a linear combination of those of the segments 
in the CC. If there is only one new basic circuit, 
then the corresponding siphon must be a 
dependent one.  In case of more than one new 
basic circuit, a linear sum of the characteristic 
T-vectors η of these basic circuits must be a 
linear sum of those of old basic circuits.  This 
implies that one new siphon may be dependent 
or redundant.   
We further extend the above approach to 
RAS more complicated than S3PR nets. They 
are more complicated by allowing an operation 
place to use more than one resource and when 
entering the next operation place, it may not 
release the resource. Some resource (called 
similar) places have the same sets of input and 
output transitions; i.e., they have the same 
holder places H(r). Again, we may synthesize 
elementary siphons from strongly connected 
subnets. How they may contain operation places;  
Further they may contain TT-handles and hence 
are not state machines. We may reduce them to 
resource subnets by eliminating all operation 
places. Further we may remove TT-handles.    
Siphons are similar if their places are either 
identical or similar. Similar siphons have the 
same characteristic T-vectors. Hence only one of 
them is elementary, while the rest are dependent. 
This implies that we may keep only one but 
delete the rest among a set of similar places. We 
should keep the similar place with the minimal 
initial marking since the maximum amount of 
each type of resource that can be used in a job 
stage depends on the similar place with the 
minimal marking. The above deletion reduces 
the size of the net and simplifies the 
computations of elementary siphons.  Further, 
when the holder place of one resource place r1 is 
a subset of another r2, i.e., H(r1)⊇H(r2), and 
initially the amount of resources in r2 is no less 
than that in r1, i.e., M0(r1)≤M0(r2), then if S1 is 
invariant-controlled, then so is S2, where S1 (S2) 
is an SMS built from a set of resource places R1 
plus r1 (r2).  Thus, S2 is dependent and we may 
delete r2 and reduces the size of the net.  Note 
that η2 may not be a linear combination of those 
of elementary siphons and S2 represents a new 
kind of dependent siphons.  
Li&Zhou indicated that it is not limited to 
S3PR and may be extended to arbitrary nets. We 
[7] demonstrate a counter example where we 
cannot synthesize a dependent siphon from a 
compound circuit as we have done earlier for an 
S3PR. We show that the dependent condition 
may be relaxed so that an elementary siphon, 
while requiring a monitor previously, may be 
controlled after some elementary siphons get 
controlled.  We showed that a compound 
siphon is a dependent one using the revised 
definition and is controlled if the Marking 
Linear Inequality (MLI) in Theorem 1 of [5] is 
5 
to appear in Int J Adv Manuf Technol ., 
2008, doi: 10.1007/s00170-008-1684-1. 
8 D. Y. Chao, ”Conditions of S3PR With No 
Weakly Dependent Siphons,” 1st revision, 
Control Theory & Applications, IET, 2008. 
9 D. Y. Chao, ”Elimination of Weighted Arcs 
of A Deadlock Prevention Policy for 
Flexible Manufacturing Systems,” 
submitted to Control Theory & 
Applications, IET, 2008. 
10 D. Y. Chao,”A Simple Modification of 
Deadlock Prevention Policy of S3PR Based 
on Elementary Siphons,” to appear in Trans. 
Mea. & Instru., 2008. 
 
QP-R02-02-14 
 2
 
一、內容摘要 
1. 參與人數  ８０＋ 
2. 主協辦單位: Petri Nets Steering Committee 
3. 論文題目、各計畫名稱、讀書會名稱或研討會議程（中、英文） 
論文題目: Daniel Yuh Chao, A Simple Modification of Deadlock Prevention Policy of S3PR Based 
on Elementary Siphons 
研討會議程: Workshop on Petri Nets and Agile Manufacturing 
 
 
Tutorial: Deadlock Control Methods and Applications : MengChu Zhou, Maria Pia Fanti, ZhiWu Li, and NaiQi Wu
Contents 
I. Synthesis of process-oriented Petri net models  
II. Synthesis of resource-oriented Petri net models  
II. Elementary siphon-based deadlock control methods 
V. Benchmark studies and comparisons 
V. Application to flexible manufacturing systems 
VI. Deadlock control methods using Resource-oriented Petri nets 
II. Application to flexible assembly systems 
II. Application to automatic guided vehicle systems 
X. Application to semiconductor manufacturing systems 
X. Synthesis of colored Petri net models 
XI. Application to automatic warehouses 
June 23: 
09.00-10.30 Parts I-II (Prof Mengchu Zhou) 
10.30-11.00 Break 
11.00-12.30 Part III-V (Prof ZhiWu Li) 
12.30-14.00 Lunch 
14.00-15.30 PartVI-IX 3 (Prof Naiqi Wu and Prof. Mengchu Zhou) 
15.30-16.00 Break 
16.00-17.30 Part X-XI (Prof Maria Fianti) 
 
 
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
June 2４, 2008 Morning 
9:00-9:40 Keynote Speech I.  
Session Chair: Prof. MengChu Zhou, New Jersey Institute of Technology, USA 
QP-R02-02-14 
 4
ＮＳＣ ｐｒｏｐｏｓａｌ． Ａｌｓｏ Ｉ ｒｅａｌｉｚｅ ｔｈａｔ 西安电子科技大学 ｉｓ ａ ｂｉｇ ｕ
ｎｉｖｅｒｓｉｔｙ ｗｉｔｈ ｓｔｕｄｅｎｔｓ ｏｖｅｒ ４００００．  Ｔｈｅｙ ｈａｖｅ ｔｈｅｉｒ 
ｏｗｎ ｈｏｔｅｌ ──── ｔｈｅ ｆｉｒｓｔ ｔｉｍｅ ｔｈａｔ Ｉ ｈａｖｅ ｓｅｅｎ ａｓ  
ｗｅｌｌ ａｓ ｃａｒ ｄｒｉｖｅｒｓ．  Ｉ ａｍ ｉｍｐｒｅｓｓｅｄ ｂｙ ｔｈｅ ｑｕａｌｉｔｙ  
ｏｆ ｔｈｅｉｒ ｐｈｄ ｓｔｕｄｅｎｔｓ．  Ｔｈｅｉｒ ｓｅｒｖｉｃｅ ｔｏ ｔｈｅ  
ｃｏｎｆｅｒｅｎｃｅ ｓｐｅａｋｅｒｓ ｉｓ ｔｈｅ ｂｅｓｔ ｉｎ ｔｈｅ ｗｏｒｌｄ．  Ｎｏ  
ｕｎｉｖｅｒｓｉｔｉｅｓ ｉｎ Ｔａｉｗａｎ ｃａｎ ｃｏｍｐｅｔｅ ｗｉｔｈ ｉｔ．  Ｔｈｅｉｒ  
ａｃａｄｅｍｉｃ ｐｒｏｇｒａｍｓ ａｒｅ ａｓｔｏｕｎｄｉｎｇ ａｎｄ ｉｍｐｒｅｓｓｉｖｅ．  Ｔｈｅ 
ｗｈｏｌｅ Ｘｉａｎ ｃｉｔｙ ｃｏｎｔａｉｎｓ ｓｏ ｍａｎｙ ｎｅｗ ｈｉｇｈ－ｒｉｓｅｓ ｔｈａｔ  
ｌｏｏｋｓ ｍｕｃｈ ｂｅｔｔｅｒ ｔｈａｎ Ｔａｉｐｅｉ───── Ｔｈｅ ｍｏｓｔ ｂｅａｕｔｉｆｕｌ 
ｃｉｔｙ Ｉ ｈａｖｅ ｅｖｅｒ ｓｅｅｎ． 
   Among all talks, some fall into my specialty, some do not.  For the first category, I am able to 
grasp their ideas.  Unfortunately, some has already done what I thought would be a new idea to 
explore.  For instance, Wang, Li and Jia, in their paper titled “On Computation of the Strict 
Minimal Siphons in a Subclass of Petri Nets Using Resource Digraphs,” has dealt with the problem 
with SMS search for a Subclass of Petri Nets called S3PMR, which is the problem that I proposed 
in the NSC proposal this year.  Fortunately, I could exploit their results and extend it to find 
elementary siphons.   
   The talk “Wholesale Power Trading through Concurrent Multiple-Issue Negotiation” by Mrs. 
Lu is not my current research. It is PN (Petri nets) application to wholesale power trading by 
allowing concurrent negotiation.  By talking to Mrs. Lu, I know of other applications.  This is 
very interesting since Petri net is no longer academic in nature, but it can also be practical.  
   Also the talk “Modeling and Analysis of Air Traffic Control Systems Using Hierarchical Timed 
Colored Petri Nets” by Prof. Huang from Defense University of ROC applies color Petri nets to Air 
Traffic Control Systems is not my current research. This helps me to do research in PN areas other 
my current one of FMS control. 
   The talk “A Hybrid Approach to Design Deadlock-Free Petri Net Controller for Discrete Event 
Systems” by Dr. Zeng is interesting and useful. I read the paper before the presentation.  Hence, I 
was able to understand and enjoy the talk.  I now know that some specification (similar to 
deadlock control) can also be designed using P-invariants.  Because deadlocks can be induced, 
they have to apply deadlock prevention technique to avoid deadlocks.  This inspires to propose 
new research to do uniform control that is application to both specification and deadlocks.  I will 
continue musing in this direction to come up with new ideas. 
I am quite inspired by the talk “Matrix Formulation for Dempster-Shafer Evidence 
Computations: Application in Free-Choice Petri Nets for Intelligent Diagnostics ” by F.L. Lewis. It 
is applied to ubiquitous network containing mobile sensors and robots.  This is an advanced 
research area.  I will propose to apply my unique research advantages to get NSC funding in this 
area. 
三、 建議 １． Ｔｏ ｓｕｐｐｏｒｔ ｔｏ ａｔｔｅｎｄ ｔｈｉｓ ｃｏｎｆｅｒｅｎｃｅ ｅｖｅｒｙ  
ｙｅａｒ． 
２． Ｔｏ ｐｒｅｐａｒｅ ａｎｄ ｐｌａｎ ｔｏ ｐａｒｔｉｃｉｐａｔｅ ａｎｄ ｏｒｇａｎｉｚｅ  
