1 
 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
提昇 SMT 連續製程品質與製程能力之研究-整合 DMAIC 與田口方法 
Upgrading the overall quality and capability of the continuous surface 
mounting process by integrating DMAIC and Taguchi method 
 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-366 -007 
執行期限：97 年 08 月 01 日  至  98 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：蔡聰男 樹德科技大學運籌管理系 
計畫參與人員：姚威良、林珍猷 樹德科技大學 經營管理研究所 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
SMT 生產線通常配置多類機台且組態不一，主要機台包括錫膏印刷機 (Stencil 
printer)、快速零件黏貼機 (High speed chip shooter)、泛用零件黏貼機 (Multi-purpose chip 
shooter)、及迴焊爐 (Reflow oven)。SMT 可視為高速自動化連續製程，故任一子製程產
出不良或機台能力不佳皆將影響最皆焊接品質 (Solder quality)。根據案例工廠品質資訊
顯示，焊接不良可導致諸多品質補償工作，其製程能力 Cpk 仍低於 1.33，故提昇 SMT
連續製程品質與能力為提高本國自製或代工產品品質保證與產出率 (Throughput rate)、
及降低製程成本之良方。 
為了解決以上問題，本研究係運用六標準差管理之 DMAIC 程序以提昇整體 SMT
連續製程品質與製程能力，研究中所使用製程數據皆收集自頗具盛名之案例工廠，研究
結果亦將藉由實務驗證以評估研究方法與改善績效是否符合業界真實需求，並運用統計
方法與實驗設計挖掘 SMT 製程中重要製程因子與非線性交互作用，繼而運用田口方法
最佳化各個 SMT 子製程品質績效與建立長期品質監控機制。主要 DMAIC 程序執行內
容，將包括：(1) 首先決定兩個 SMT 主要子製程之關鍵品質特性(錫膏印刷與迴焊)、(2) 
分析現有量測系統 (AOI、Profile tracker)、(3) 評估製程能力 (機器能力)、(4) 歸納出影
響各個 SMT 子製程 (錫膏印刷及迴焊) 之關鍵因子、(5) 根據少數關鍵因子進行實驗設
計與資料分析、(6) 利用實驗設計找出最佳製程參數組合、(7) 解析實驗結果並求取最
佳化製程參數組合、(8) 進行確認實驗且運用管制圖技巧監控後續實驗結果、(9) 最後
將最佳參數標準化列為管制項目並建立長期製程品質與能力客製化監控系統。 
 
關鍵詞：表面黏著技術、錫膏印刷、迴焊、製程能力、DMAIC、田口方法 
 
3 
 
Reflow soldering is the dominant process used to fabricate many types of modern 
electronics products and is a key determinant when striving to improve the first-pass yields in 
the electronics assembly (Prasad, 2002). At the beginning of reflow soldering, the solder paste 
is deposited onto printed circuited board (PCB) pads prior to placement of the surface mount 
components (SMCs) using chip shooters. The melting and solidifying of the solder paste to 
form electrical interconnections between the pads and component terminations through reflow 
soldering process. Ensuring the reliability of each termination throughout the entire reflow 
cycle is critical to the success of PCB assembly (Sarvar and Conway, 1998). 
The SPP involves multiple performance characteristics indices (MCPI) as shown in 
Figure 1. The desired amount of solder paste deposition (quantitative response) and the 
presence of printing defects (such as bridge, slump, incomplete, and shift) have a significant 
effect on SPP performance (Kennedy, 2000). The incomplete solder paste volume may result 
in solder opens or voids, whereas bridge and slump printing defects increases the 
opportunities of solder short. However in practice, the electronics manufacturers usually 
monitor the variations in solder paste volume or solder paste height during daily SPC activity, 
instead of controlling both solder paste volume and printing defects owing to economical and 
technical considerations. To tackle the aforementioned practical problems, this work attempts 
at upgrading the fine-pitch SPP capability by reducing the volume variations of solder paste 
deposits from a nominal value and considering qualitative quality characteristic index as well. 
The deposited volume of solder paste can be measured with an automatic optics inspection 
(AOI) system, and printing quality can be identified based on the subjective judgment of 
human-inspectors using the automatic visual inspection (AVI) system. 
The more pin-count components are layout in the PCB, the lower is the stencil printing 
performance. In practice, the volume of solder paste deposits instead of solder paste thickness 
is used to prevent the failures of solder joint in the statistical control process (SPC) activity, 
since the height of solder paste can be varied due to the presence of solder spheres in the paste 
(Shina, 2002). The closer the amount of solder paste is to a nominal value, the better is the 
stencil printing performance. However, the inconsistent and inadequate volume of solder 
paste deposition could result in several soldering defects, such as solder bridge, void, 
tombstone, and solder ball, and cause significant rework and repair costs, particularly for a 
fine-pitch solder paste printing operation. 
5 
 
soldering defects, but also can result in considerable reworking and waste. The major 
soldering defects produced after the reflow soldering include bridging, tombstoning, voiding, 
balling, poor wetting, and solder charring (Lee, 1999; Barbini et al., 2005). All the failure 
modes can result in significant reliability concerns. 
 
Figure 2. Typical reflow thermal profile 
Analyzing the defect mechanism can help in optimizing a reflow thermal profile (Lee, 
1999). The root causes leading to these various failure modes can be complicated and the 
heating responses interrelated to each other. Some remedies are provided to minimize the 
occurrences of failures in the thermal profiling process (Apell, 2004), such as: (1) A smoother 
maintenance of the soaking temperature is required to minimize tombstoning. (2) A thermal 
profile indicating a shorter time at a higher temperature can reduce oxidation and viscous flux 
remnants, thereby minimizing solder voids. (3) A slower ramp-up slope can reduce paste 
spattering, thereby eliminating solder balling. (4) If the solder paste stays at a high 
temperature for too long this can cause hot slumping leading to solder bridging. (5) The 
exposure of the solder paste, leads, and pads to excessive temperature and heating duration 
can cause oxidation and result in poor wetting. (6) The peak temperature should not set too 
high with excessive time above the point of liquidus to create thicker intermetallics.   
三、製程最佳化模式發展 
This research effort is to optimize the fine-pitch SPP and solder reflow with the 
considerations of SCPI and MCPI. The sub-goals include (1) compare the optimization 
7 
 
orthogonal arrays (OAs) and signal-to-noise (S/N) ratios. Using OAs can control experimental 
error and allow engineers to study many influence parameters simultaneously and estimate the 
effects of independent factors and interactions. The Taguchi design considers both the mean 
of the performance characteristic of interest and its variance, and employs S/N ratios as the 
performance measures to evaluate robustness and variation in a system (Phadke, 1989). The 
higher S/N ratio represents that a system has better performance and lower variation, 
respectively. Three types of S/N ratios were classed by Taguchi (1987), according to the 
responses’ quality characteristics: 1) the smaller-the-better (STB), 2) the larger-the-better 
(LTB), and 3) the nominal-the-best (NTB), as shown in (1)–(3), respectively 
∑
=
−=
n
i
ijyn 1
2
10STB )
1(log10)(S/N η             (1) 
∑
=
−=
n
i ijyn 1
210LTB
1)1(log10)(S/N η             (2) 
( )
1
10log)(S/N
2
12
321
2
2
10NTB
−
−
=
++++=
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛=
∑
=
n
yy
n
yyyywhere
n
i
i
n
σ
μ
σ
μη
L
            (3) 
Taguchi method of experimental design has been widely applied in a variety of industries 
for finding the most important factors to achieve robustness in a manufacturing process (Ross, 
1996; Benardos et al., 2006; Gaitonde et al., 2007). Application of Taguchi design mainly 
focuses on design and improvement of product and process respectively (Chen et al. 2007; 
Rout and Mittal, 2009). However, most of the previous applications of Taguchi method 
generally emphasized a single response optimization and thus, the simultaneous optimization 
solutions on multiple performance characteristics have been scarce. Optimizing a 
multi-response problem by Taguchi method involves in engineering judgment that often 
increases the degree of uncertainty (Phadke, 1989). Traditionally, this sort of problem was 
solved by assigning a weight for each response. However, the weighted S/N ratio cannot agree 
with the viewpoint of Taguchi quality loss function. A multi-response can alternatively be 
converted into a single syneresis performance index through a fuzzy inference process.  
In this study, the Taguchi method is used to optimize the SCPI (solder paste volume), 
whereas a Taguchi fuzzy-based approach is employed to simultaneously optimize the SPP 
9 
 
For example, the heat absorption rate for a larger or a more complex package is higher than 
the one for a small capacitor component. The higher the heat absorption rate, the slower its 
heat rising slope. A good parameter setting must agree with the heating requirements for the 
different component types on the board, such as the heater temperature settings, PCB density 
and board gap. All affect the heating and absorption rates significantly (Barbini et al., 2005; 
Su et al., 1997) The board gap is the distance between two consecutive boards as they move 
through the oven. The PCB density is defined as follows: 
Board
1densityPCB
V
VN
M
j
jj∑
==                                   (4) 
where M is the number of component types; Nj denotes the quantity of component type j; Vj 
stands for the volume of component type j; VBoard is the volume of a bare board. 
The levels assigned to each factor were summarized in Table 1.  The L18 (21×37) 
experiment was conducted and the thermal profiles were measured using a Datapaq® reflow 
tracker system (accuracy of +/-1 ˚C). Four thermal couples were used to measure solder joint 
temperatures in the reflow oven.  
Table 1. The control factor levels 
 Factor name Levels I II III 
A Heater #1 temperature setting (°C) 140 185  
B Heater #2 temperature setting (°C) 150 165 190 
C Heater #3 temperature setting (°C) 145 165 185 
D Heater #4 temperature setting (°C) 230 255 280 
E PCB density (cm3/cm2) 0.1 0.17 0.33 
F Air exhaust rate (m3/min) 2.5 4.0 5.5 
G Conveyor speed (m/min) 0.55 0.70 0.85 
H Board gap (cm) 1 11 21 
 
An ANN model has a number of neurons distributed in a number of hierarchical layers. 
The design of an effective ANN model requires the selection of an appropriate network 
topology and fine-tuning of the structure to make tradeoffs between mapping performance 
and computational complexity. The neural network modeling parameters include the number 
of learning iterations, learning rate, momentum, and number of nodes in the hidden layers. 
There is no universal design method for determining the topology of an ANN model. We 
utilize the NeuralPower® software package to perform the QP neural network data-learning 
process. First, we employ the software’s default parameter settings of 0.8 and 0.8 for the 
learning rate and momentum, one hidden layer with Sigmoid activation function, and the 
number of training epochs at 5,000. To minimize the training errors, we conduct preliminary 
trial-and-error experiments. The resulting neural network topology is “8-15-8” produced 
lower root mean square error (RMSE), which is 8 neurons for the input layer, 15 neurons for 
11 
 
method. 
Multi-response optimization using GA 
A hybrid artificial intelligence tool combining ANN with GA has been used in various 
research fields for parameter optimization (Abouhamze and Shakeri, 2007). This hybrid 
method is considered appropriate for process optimization problems and can be utilized to 
model and optimize reflow thermal profiling, as illustrated in Figure 5. In this optimization 
method, a QP neural network model is used to map the nonlinear relationship between heating 
factors and responses. The QP model acts as the objective function for GA evolutionary 
operations. The tournament selection method (which outperforms other selection methods) is 
adopted to select a small subset of chromosomes and find the one with the best fitness to be a 
parent (Zhongm 2005). A vector of floating point numbers with values within the upper and 
lower bound of each profiling factor is used to represent a chromosome. The uniform 
crossover operation and real value coding are applied during the mutation process. 
Randomly initialize
population
Decode and
evaluate GA 
fitness function
Satisfy 
“stop” condition?
Print optimum
heating solution
Final best
individual
No
Perform QP  neural 
network simulation
Selection
Crossover
Mutation
G
enerate population for next generation Yes
 
Figure 5. Flowchart of hybrid artificial intelligence technique 
The GA method is used to search the trained QP neural network according to the given 
PCB densities (i.e., 0.1, 0.17, 0.33 cm3/cm2) and the desired heating responses (target of each 
response) for extracting the optimum heating parameters. Each heating response is set to the 
desired value since they are “nominal-the-best” (NTB) cases. A set of optimum heating 
parameters is a combination of factors A, B, C, D, F, G, and H) and the three types of PCB 
densities (factor E). Real value coding is used in the GA revolutionary process. Each gene has 
a real value. The optimum settings of heating parameters obtained following the GA searching 
13 
 
confirmation experiments using the process condition of C3F3G3H3 for both 0.4 (A1) and 0.5 
mm (A2) pitch printing process under the consideration of the SCPI (solder paste volume). 
The volume of solder paste bricks were measured for each component. The analysis results 
for the original and the optimum settings are summarized in Table 4. The S/N ratios are 
improved for both 0.4 and 0.5 mm cases are at 5.11 (dB). The mean of solder paste volumes is 
increased at 21.2% and 11.7% for 0.4 mm and 0.5 mm, respectively. 
3000 
3500 
4000 
4500 
5000 
5500 
6000 
A1 A2 B1 B2 B3 C1 C2 C3 D1 D2 D3 E1 E2 E3 F1 F2 F3 G1 G2 G3 H1 H2 H3
37 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 
A1 A2 B1 B2 B3 C1 C2 C3 D1 D2 D3 E1 E2 E3 F1 F2 F3 G1 G2 G3 H1 H2 H3
S/N ratio (dB)
Factor levels
Factor levels
(a)
(b)
Solder paste volume (mil3)
A B C D E F G H
A B C D E F G H
 
Figure 6. The main effects plot for S/N ratio and mean 
The closer the solder paste volume to the nominal, the better is the SPP performance. 
The mean of solder paste volume must be adjusted to agree with nominal. The solder paste 
volume increases monotonically with respect to the factors F (stencil aperture size) and G 
(stencil thickness). Thus, another confirmation experiment is conducted using the setting 
C3F2G2H3 and S/N ratio (42.31 dB) and the mean (5,819 mil3) are obtained. The mean is 
approached to the CL (5,850 mil3) used in the subject company (company V). Nevertheless, 
the optimum setting for 0.4 mm pitch printing process should be kept at A1C3F3G3H3 for 
obtaining appropriate amount of solder paste deposits and is closer to nominal (CL)-4,850 
(mil3) used by subject company. For the mixed lead-pitch (PCB is designated with 0.4 mm 
and 0.5 mm pitch components) printing process instance, larger stencil apertures (120% of 
pad area) and 1.2 mm thickness stencil should be designated for the 0.4 mm lead-pitch 
components for depositing proper amount of solder paste, whereas stencil apertures (115% of 
pad area) and 1.2 thickness stencil are suggested for 0.5 mm lead-pitch components to deposit 
15 
 
Optimization performance of the solder reflow 
After the reflow process is completed for the batch (30 boards), an in-circuit tester is 
used to examine the PCBs for solder openings and shorts in the IC packages. An automated 
visual inspection (AVI) used by human inspectors, other soldering failure modes that may 
have been induced during reflow soldering process are identified. Defects per million 
opportunities (DPMO), yield rate, and process sigma (with 1.5σ shift) are the three metrics 
used to compare the performance of the two optimization methods. The results of the 
confirmation experiments are summarized in Table 5. There are several occurrences of solder 
shorting in the TQFP packages (16-mil lead-pitch). This is probably also related to the stencil 
printing process.  
The optimization performance of the desirability function approach is obviously better 
than that of the hybrid artificial intelligence method according to the three metrics.  However, 
the performance of the two optimization methods is quite close. Additionally, we compare the 
performance with the mass production using a historical SPC database. Totally ninety boards 
with three different PCB densities (30 boards for each PCB density) are randomly selected 
and used in the comparison process. The performance of mass production has an average 
DPMO of 7,940 and the average yield rate of 99.21%. The result shows that both soldering 
performance and process capability are better than mass production. 
According to Figure 8, more soldering defects on the passive devices will occur with 
optimization method 1 than method 2. For example, the tombstones and solder balls generated 
with method 1, as exemplified by devices 0201 and 0402, are considerably greater than with 
method 2. This may be the result of method 1’s steeper preheating slope acquired.  These 
two failure modes could also originate from misalignment of the printed solder paste pattern 
or higher degree of component offset rate. We confirmed with reasonable confidence given 
the data that the soldering performance (from either of these two potential causes) has a minor 
influence, since the printed solder paste printed and component offset rate were evaluated 
prior to the confirmation experiments.   
17 
 
Complex and nonlinear behavior in the stencil printing process segment can cause significant 
soldering defect problems, and thus induce significant quality and production time losses. 
Particularly, approximately 60% of soldering defects originate from stencil printing process 
segment, and the rest of defects may result from solder reflow process. The stencil printing 
and solder reflow processes must be optimized to improve quality level and reduce 
manufacturing costs of surface mount assembly systems. 
The proposed DMAIC scheme and hybrid intelligence methods are used to optimize the 
two key SMT processes. A Taguchi method and a Taguchi fuzzy-based model are proposed 
for the SPP capability improvement under the considerations of a SCPI characteristic index 
and MCPI, respectively. The process capability analysis results show the SPP is capable with 
Cp are above 1.46 and Cpk are above 1.33 using these two proposed methodologies. In 
addition, the geometry design of stencil is important, since the stencil aperture size and stencil 
thickness are dominant factor to adjust process mean to the nominal. The x -R control charts 
should be regularly facilitated for long-term monitoring of solder paste volume for a 
continuous improvement. 
The performance of these two optimization methods for solder reflow process is quite 
close. In particular, the soldering performance and process capability are both better than that 
obtained with mass production. Additionally, several findings obtained from the proposed 
models include: (i) The ANN model obtains a higher predicted peak temperature and lower 
ramp-up slope compared with desirability function approach. (ii) The board gap (distance) has 
reverse effect on these two models. (iii) The hybrid artificial intelligence technique produce a 
steeper preheating slope. (iv) The hybrid artificial ingelligence model needs a longer board 
distance to maintain even thermal reactions within the oven. (v) Both approaches produce a 
smoother ramp-up slope, and desirability function provides a closer range to the target. (vi) 
The predictions obtained by the desirability function approach are closer to the heating 
targets. 
The above research results have been submitted and accepted in: 
1. Journal of Chinese Institute of Industrial Engineers. (EI/TSSCI). (In press) 
2. Robotics and Computer Integrated Manufacturing (SCI Expended). (in 2nd review) 
 
五、參考文獻 
1. Abouhamze, M. and Shakeri, M., 2007, Multi-objective stacking sequence optimization 
of laminated cylindrical panels using a genetic algorithm and neural networks, 
Composite Structures, Vol. 81, pp. 253–263. 
2. Apell, M. C., 2004, Considerations for Lead-Free Reflow Soldering, Circuits Assembly, 
pp. 28-30. 
3. Barbini, D., Diepstraten, G. and Marquez, U., 2005, Process Considerations for 
Optimizing a Reflow Profile, Surface Mount Technology, pp. 28-31. 
