Imaging and Advanced Technology
Ralf Kiesslich and Pankaj Jay Pasricha, Section Editors
At the Movies: 3-Dimensional Technology and Gastrointestinal Histology
YA–YUAN FU and SHIUE–CHENG TANG
Department of Chemical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
Gastrointestinal (GI) tissues consist of 3-dimensional(3D) microstructure, vasculature, and innervation
to coordinate physiologic activities. To examine these
cellular architectures, investigators often use microtome-
based 2-dimensional (2D) analysis, such as hematoxylin
and eosin or antibody staining and subsequent optical
or electron microscopy, to visualize the molecule/
structure of interest at a specific or a series of cut
planes. Because microtome slicing creates disconnections
between tissue sections as well as distortions and artifacts,
a microtome free, nondestructive imaging approach is pref-
erable to provide an integral visualization of the tissue
structure in situ.
Recently, significant progress has been made in optical
clearing of tissues and cells to generate transparent spec-
imens for microtome-free 3D microscopy.1–4 Visualiza-
tion of the image data over a region of tissue, such as a
suspicious area of the patient’s biopsy, provides a global
view of the tissue organization. This feature is particu-
larly valuable when intricate vascular and neuronal net-
works are the prime targets for inspection.
This article introduces the process of optical clearing
and its integration with deep-tissue microscopy for 3D
imaging of GI specimens with high definition. The goal is
to change our conventional planar view of the tissue
structure into a 3D panorama for better characterization
of the microstructure, vasculature, and innervation of the
GI tissues.
Optical Clearing Promotes Photon
Penetration in the Tissue
Light carries information about the tissue struc-
ture to detectors in optical imaging. For transparent
tissues such as the retina and the zebrafish embryo, light
can pass through with minimal scattering for visualiza-
tion of the molecules of interest. However, light is
strongly scattered by the GI tissues (particularly at the
visible spectrum), thereby limiting their optical accessi-
bility for deep-tissue imaging.
Optical clearing is the method of applying an immer-
sion solution to reduce random scattering as light travels
across media. The opaque tissue becomes transparent by
minimizing the refractive mismatch between the tissue
constitutes (refractive index at 1.46) and fluids (water
has a refractive index at 1.33; Figure 1A, B). Commonly
used optical-clearing solutions such as glycerol, dimethyl
sulfoxide, and polymer mixtures of polypropylene glycol
and polyethylene glycol have been applied in conjunction
with laser treatments of the skin to increase photon
penetration to reach the target for diagnostic as well as
therapeutic purposes.5,6 One specific feature of the opti-
cal-clearing effect is its reversibility. For instance, the skin
begins to increase its light transmittance in minutes
when immersed in glycerol. This increase can be reversed
by replacing glycerol with saline to restore the tissue
opacity and functions.
With regard to optical microscopy, optical clearing
increases the imaging depth and sensitivity by facilitating
laser penetration and fluorescence detection in confocal
laser-scanning microscopy. A number of approaches in-
volving treatment of agents such as xylene, mineral oil,
and methyl salicylate have been used to achieve refractive
uniformity in the fixed biological specimens, such as the
paraformaldehyde cross-linked GI tissues. These reagents
all have a refractive index higher than water and similar
to that of the glass coverslip and are used with oil-
immersion lenses.
Integration of Optical Clearing With
Deep-Tissue Microscopy
Confocal and 2- (or multi-) photon microscopy—2
forms of optical sectioning microscopy—are powerful
tools for investigation of the GI tissues. Whereas the
conventional wide-field fluorescent microscopy requires
microtome sectioning of the tissue to increase the light
transmittance and reduce the background, optical sec-
tioning imaging uses the pinhole and/or illumination
techniques to acquire optical slices from a thick specimen
by excluding the out-of-focus signals from the focal
plane. Recently, significant progress in confocal imaging
has led to the development of confocal laser endoscopy
for the in vivo diagnosis of GI disorders. This important
© 2010 by the AGA Institute
0016-5085/$36.00
doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2010.08.025
GASTROENTEROLOGY 2010;139:1100–1105
Vascular Labeling of Luminescent Gold
Nanorods Enables 3-DMicroscopy of
Mouse Intestinal Capillaries
Shiue-Cheng Tang, Ya-Yuan Fu, Wen-Fu Lo, Tzu-En Hua, and Hsing-Yu Tuan*
Department of Chemical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 30013
G
old nanorods (Au-NRs) have re-
cently emerged as effective lumi-
nescent particles for
bioimaging.16 Compared with conven-
tional organic dyes, Au-NRs possess a highly
efficient absorption at the near-infrared
wavelengths, emit visible wavelength fluo-
rescence under multiple photon excitation,
and experience minimal, if any, photo-
bleaching during laser excitation.7,8 When
applied as the fluorophores in two-photon
microscopy, for instance, Au-NRs can emit
bright two-photon-induced visible light due
to their large two-photon action cross sec-
tions (2000 GoeppertMayer units in
comparison to 1300 units for organic flu-
orophores) and longitudinal plasmon reso-
nances.9 Moreover, the long-wavelength la-
ser excitation in two-photon imaging
reduces Rayleigh scattering, thus facilitat-
ing photon penetration in biological tissues
for deep-tissue microscopy.10 However, to
date, Au-NRs have only been used in planar
imaging to label the cellular monolayers at
tissue culture surfaces,1,11,12 which do not
have the three-dimensional (3-D) tissue
structure to fully demonstrate the proper-
ties of Au-NRs in optical imaging.
In this research, we applied Au-NRs in
mouse vascular labeling to reveal the 3-D
capillary structure of the small intestine. We
aimed to use the Au-NR-mediated near-
infrared confocal microscopy to visualize
the intricate morphology of the intestinal
vasculature. The intestinal microvessels play
a central role in nutrient absorption and im-
mune response against infections.13,14 In
cancer development, the abnormal vascu-
lar morphology derived from angiogenesis
is a trait of tumor progression.15 Although
detailed analysis of the vascular network is
greatly needed in basic and clinical re-
search, visualization of the gastrointestinal
vasculature is often limited by the spatial
resolution of the imaging tools.
Among the available imaging technolo-
gies, noninvasive magnetic resonance im-
aging (MRI) can image deep into the tissue
and provide 3-D information; however, the
resolution is too low to observe the vascu-
lar and capillary structure at the cellular
level.16 With respect to routine histochemi-
cal staining and microscopy, the
microtome-based 2-D tissue analysis allows
micrometer-level resolution but confines
the view at a specific cut plane.17 In addi-
tion, the distortions and artifacts caused by
microtome slicing as well as the disconnec-
tion between sectioned tissues prevent a
global view of the vascular network. To
date, detailed morphologic analysis of the
intestinal microcirculation depends on vas-
cular corrosion casts. However, this method
strips away the mucosa for scanning elec-
tron microscopy (SEM), thus rendering it in-
capable of providing an integrated visual-
ization of the vasculature with its
surrounding tissues.15,18
New advances in 3-D optical methods
and the Au-NR-mediated vascular labeling
*Address correspondence to
hytuan@che.nthu.edu.tw.
Received for review August 25, 2010
and accepted September 24, 2010.
Published online October 1, 2010.
10.1021/nn102157a
© 2010 American Chemical Society
ABSTRACT In this study, we aimed to use gold nanorods (Au-NRs) as luminescent substrates for labeling of
the mouse intestinal blood vessels for tissue imaging. The labeled intestine was subjected to 3-D confocal
microscopy to reveal the intricate morphology of the intestinal capillaries. Using the Au-NR’s unique near-infrared
excitation and visible fluorescence emission, we observed low noise background compared to the tissue’s high
autofluorescence from blue laser excitation. We took advantage of this sharp contrast in optical properties to
achieve 3-D visualization of the intestinal microstructure and vasculature with capillary-level resolution. This new
optical application demonstrates the Au-NR’s distinctive properties in vascular labeling and fluorescence
microscopy for 3-D illustration of intestinal vasculature.
KEYWORDS: 3-D confocal microscopy · gold nanorods · intestinal vascular
imaging · optical imaging · photoluminescence
A
RT
IC
LE
VOL. 4 ▪ NO. 10 ▪ TANG ET AL. www.acsnano.org6278
Optical clearing improves the imaging depth and signal-
to-noise ratio for digital analysis and three-dimensional
projection of the human enteric nervous system
Y.-A. LIU,* Y. CHEN, A.-S. CHIANG, S.-J. PENG,* P. J. PASRICHA§ & S.-C. TANG*
*Department of Chemical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
Department of Surgery, Far Eastern Memorial Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan
Institute of Biotechnology, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
§Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA
Abstract
Background Due to the dispersed nature of neurites
and fibers, the microtome-based 2-dimensional his-
tology provides only a limited perspective of the
enteric nervous system. To visualize the enteric
plexus, we applied optical clearing to avoid scattering
in the human ileum to facilitate photon penetration
for 3-dimensional (3-D) microscopy of the neural tis-
sue. Methods Human ileal specimens were derived by
trimming the donor bowel due to its excess length
during the clinical trial of small intestinal transplan-
tation. The pan-neuronal marker PGP9.5 was used as
the immunostaining target to reveal the enteric plex-
uses. The labeled tissues were immersed in the opti-
cal-clearing solution prior to deep-tissue confocal
microscopy. The serial sections were digitally ana-
lyzed and processed by reconstruction algorithms for
3-D visualization. Key Results Optical clearing of the
ileal specimen led to less fluorescence signal decay
along the focal path in the tissue and a higher signal-to-
noise ratio of the confocal micrographs in comparison
with the untreated saline control. Taking advantage of
the high signal-to-noise ratio images, we applied soft-
ware-based signal analysis to identify the presence of
the nerve fibers and quantify the signal peaks. The im-
age stacks derived from the serial anatomic micro-
graphs created panoramic views of the gut wall
innervations with their associated microstructures.
Conclusions & Inferences We provide an optical
approach to improve the imaging depth in 3-D neuro-
histology of the human ileum. This methodology has
significant promise in facilitating our understanding of
the enteric nervous system in health and disease.
Keywords 3-D histology, enteric nervous system,
human intestine, optical clearing.
INTRODUCTION
Gastrointestinal biopsies derived from endoscopic or
surgical procedures require histologic analysis for
pathologic assessment. Although the microtome-based
two-dimensional (2-D) histology is the standard meth-
od for tissue analysis, diagnostic errors and inconclu-
sive results are embedded in the process due to
incomplete sampling – only a few sections of the
specimen are examined to represent the bulk tissue.1–6
In enteric neurohistology, the 2-D method provides
only a limited perspective of the neural network in
space; this is particularly due to the highly dispersed
nature of neurites and fibers.
In optical microscopy, light carries the information
on tissue structures for analysis. For the transparent
tissue – the retina – in which light can travel with
minimal scattering, optical imaging can be conducted
by the set-ups such as the slit lamp microscope or the
retina itself. As for the opaque gut tissues, scattering
heavily interferes with photons traveling in the tissue
matrix.7–13 Although microtome sectioning provides a
Address for Correspondence
Pankaj J. Pasricha, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepa-
tology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA
94305, USA.
Tel: +650 736 5555; fax: +650 498 6323;
e-mail: pasricha@stanford.edu
Shiue-Cheng Tang, Department of Chemical
Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 30013,
Taiwan.
Tel: +886 3 571 5131, ext. 33649; fax: +886 3 571 5408;
e-mail: sctang@che.nthu.edu.tw
Received: 18 April 2011
Accepted for publication: 27 July 2011
Neurogastroenterol Motil (2011) 23, e446–e457 doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2982.2011.01773.x
 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltde446
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 5 月 18 日 
                 
一、參加會議經過 
5/5 evening 
Took off to San Francisco, CA, USA 
5/5 evening 
Visit Stanford University, School of Medicine 
5/6  
Arrive Chicago, IL, USA 
Met with Dr. Pasricha in the evening for collaborative research update. 
5/7 DDW started 
Poster presentation, graduate student 林欣瑤 
Three-Dimensional Microscopy of Mouse Ileal Microstructure and Innervation 
5/8 
Research discussion with Dr. Pasricha in the afternoon 
5/9 
Poster presentation, graduate student 符雅媛 
Three-dimensional characterization of the changed colonic neuronal network in the dextran sodium 
sulfate-induced murine colitis 
Attend meet-the-investigator Luncheon: How the enteric nervous system works? 
5/10 
Poster presentation, graduate student 劉原安 
Reversibility of Optical-Cleared Porcine Ileal Specimens Enables Integration of 3-Dimensional 
Microscopy with the Standard H&E Tissue Analysis 
Traveled back to Taiwan 
5/12 Morning 
Arrived Taiwan 
二、與會心得 
- Met with collaborator Dr. Pankaj Jay Pasricha for research update and discussed future research 
direction 
- Introduced graduate students to the gastrointestinal research community. 
- Encouraged graduate students to participate international conference activity 
三、建議 None 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Meeting program and brochure 
五、其他 None 
 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-007 -094 
計畫名稱 以光學技術進行胃腸消化道組織三維影像擷取 
出國人員
姓名 湯學成 
服務機構
及職稱 
清華大學 化工系 副教授 
會議時間 100 年 5 月 7 日至 100 年 5 月 10 日 會議地點 
Chicago, IL, USA 
會議名稱 (中文) 
(英文) Digestive Disease Week 2011 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) (AGA Institute Video Forum)  Three-dimensional characterization of the 
changed colonic neuronal network in the dextran sodium sulfate-induced murine colitis 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：湯學成 計畫編號：99-2221-E-007-094- 
計畫名稱：以光學技術進行胃腸消化道組織三維影像擷取 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 1 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 1 0 100% 
人次 
 
