Abstract 
Hip resurfacing arthroplasty has become an attractive treatment option for young, active 
patients with femoral head necrosis. However, little information is available about the 
potential thermal damage to the remaining femoral head when a cemented component is used. 
We used an experimental model to measure the temperature profile at the cement–bone 
interface during hip resurfacing. We compared four simulated lesion sizes- 15, 25, 33, and 
50%- of the femoral head, and a control group with no cystic lesion. Temperatures were 
measured with the specimens in a 37℃ saline bath or with copious pulsed lavage. With 
specimens tested in the bath, peak temperatures were higher, and durations of temperatures 
above 50℃ were longer, in femoral heads with necrotic lesions (88.8±7.5℃; 17.6±1.1 min for 
a 15% lesion; 96.2±7.2℃; 22.86±1.3 min for a 25% lesion; 99.7±9.4℃; 28.6±2.0 min for a 
33% lesion; and 97.2±4.2℃; 35.6±2.4 min for a 50% lesion) than those in the control group 
(65.8±4.9℃; 10.0±1.3 min). The larger the cement-filled cysts, the longer the temperatures 
remained above 50℃. Although copious lavage reduced the temperature profile in each group, 
the temperatures remained above 50℃ for 7 to 17 min in specimens with necrotic cysts. The 
measured temperatures during surface replacement are sufficiently high in magnitude and 
long in duration to cause thermal damage to the remaining bone in femoral heads with 
preexisting necrotic lesions. Hip resurfacing for femoral head necrosis should be performed 
with caution. 
Keywords: hip resurfacing; bone cement; temperature; osteonecrosis 
 
Introduction 
Osteonecrosis of the femoral head is a devastating disease that usually affects patients 
who are in the third to fifth decades of life. The disease is typically progressive, often leading 
to collapse of the femoral head and subsequent destruction of the hip, and requiring the joint 
to be reconstructed by prosthetic replacement. Osteonecrosis accounts for about 10% of 
primary total hip arthroplasties performed in the United States and up to 50% in some other 
countries [1,2]. Because these patients are generally younger and more active, total hip 
arthroplasty for osteonecrosis has historically had poorer results in terms of prosthetic 
survival and functional scores compared with patients with primary osteoarthritis [3]. 
Hip resurfacing arthroplasty, with its bone-conserving nature and recent improvement in 
bearing surface designs, has become increasingly popular for the treatment of femoral head 
necrosis. For most currently available devices of metal-on-metal hip resurfacing, the fixation 
is hybrid, with a cementless acetabular shell and a cemented femoral component. Although 
promising results have been reported in short-term follow-up studies [4,5], concerns remain 
regarding this procedure, including necrosis of the remaining femoral head, which can lead to 
component loosening and fracture of the femoral neck [6]. Although the cause of these 
complications is probably multifactorial, one likely cause is thermal damage to the cancellous 
bone of the resurfaced femoral heads resulting from cement polymerization. Filling large 
necrotic areas in the femoral head with bone cement may generate even more heat at the 
cement–bone interface, potentially worsening the adverse thermal effect [7]. 
To the best of our knowledge, no previous study has addressed the potential thermal 
injury during surface replacement arthroplasty for osteonecrosis of the femoral head. We 
hypothesized that the heat generated by polymerization of bone cement during hip resurfacing 
for femoral head necrosis is sufficiently high to lead to thermal necrosis of the remaining 
bone. A laboratory model was developed to analyze the temperature profile at the 
Results 
  The temperature profile at the cement–bone interface was similar in each specimen, with 
temperature rising rapidly during polymerization to reach a peak and then slowly cooling (Fig. 
2). The presence of a cystic lesion in the femoral head with the specimens being tested under 
37℃ saline bath resulted in peak temperatures of 88.8±7.5℃, 96.2±7.28C, 99.7±9.4℃, and 
97.2± 4.2℃ at the cement–bone interface for 15, 25, 33, and 50% lesions, respectively (Fig. 
3). The peak temperatures of the study groups were not significantly different from each other, 
but were significantly higher than those measured in the control group (65.8±4.9℃; p<0.01). 
Copious irrigation reduced the maximum temperature by 29.2 and 12.3℃ in the control group 
(p<0.001) and in specimens with smaller cysts (15% of the femoral head; p=0.034), 
respectively. Irrigation reduced maximal recorded temperature by 7.7, 4.6, and 5.7℃ in 
specimens with necrotic lesions of 25, 33, and 50% of the femoral head, respectively, but this 
reduction did not reach significance (p=0.186, 0.391, and 0.076 for 25, 33, and 50% lesions, 
respectively). 
Table 1 shows durations of temperature elevation above 50℃ for all specimen groups. 
The temperatures remained above 50℃ for longer periods with increasing lesion size in the 
femoral heads, ranging from 10 min in the control group to 35 min in the 50% lesion group, 
when specimens were tested in the saline bath. Although irrigation significantly reduced the 
high-temperature duration in each group (p<0.0001), temperatures remained above 50℃ for 7 
to 17 min in specimens with cystic lesions. The temperatures measured in the control group 
with irrigation were well below 50℃ during the entire polymerization process. Sectioning of 
the specimens after temperature measurement confirmed that the tips of the thermal couples 
were positioned at the cement–bone interface. 
Discussion 
Thermal damage resulting from polymerization of bone cement can lead to necrosis of the 
adjacent bone. Thermal injury is a function of temperature level and time: a temperature of 
above 508C for more than 1 min is considered detrimental to bone tissue [8]. Heat generated 
during the exothermic polymerization process of bone cement is dictated by the thickness of 
cement mass (cement mantle plus a layer of cement penetration). The peak temperature at the 
cement surface is higher for thicker mantles, from approximately 41℃ for a 1 mm-thick 
cement layer, to 56℃ for a 5-mm layer, and up to 60℃ for a 7 mm-thick layer [9]. In 
cemented total hip arthroplasty, for instance, an optimal 2–5 mm cement mantle for the 
fixation of implants typically produces a temperature at the cement surface of between 50 and 
55℃ [10]. 
The potential thermal damage to the femoral head during hip resurfacing has not been 
reported until recently. Gill et al. [11] measured the temperature at the bone–cement interface 
in four patients undergoing resurfacing hip arthroplasty for osteoarthritis. The maximum 
recorded temperature was 68℃, which was higher than that reported to kill osteocytes. 
However, they did not explore the temperature history or the effect of cement-filled femoral 
head cyst on the temperature profile. In a finite element model, Campbell et al. [12] predicted 
that, with a moderate amount of cement penetration and a preexisting cyst, temperature 
generated within the femoral head interfacial bone was high enough and the duration was 
long enough to cause thermal bone necrosis. For example, a 6-mm penetration of cement with 
a 2 cm3 cyst resulted in the highest temperature of 66℃, with the temperature remaining 
above 50℃ for 117 s.  
sawbones was not the same as that of living human femora. The thermal profiles are likely 
overestimated and the alarming high temperatures and long durations of temperature 
measured above 50℃ are specific to this study. Second, only one type of bone cement and 
method of preparation, as well as one type of prosthesis were used. However, our specimens 
were all prepared and tested in a uniform and reproducible manner, and every effort was made 
to duplicate the clinical conditions. We believe that these results provide valuable information 
to orthopedic surgeons performing surface replacement arthroplasty for femoral head 
necrosis.  
In conclusion, we found that temperatures generated by polymerization of bone cement 
during hip resurfacing for femoral head necrosis, with or without irrigation, are sufficiently 
high in magnitude and long in duration to cause thermal damage to the remaining bone. 
Larger cement-filled cysts consistently gave higher temperature profiles and a higher risk for 
thermal bone damage. These results indicate that surface replacement arthroplasty for femoral 
head necrosis, especially in patients with a large necrotic cyst, should be done with caution. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Duration for Temperature above 50℃ (Minutes) 
 
 
 
  
Figure 1. Preparation of the specimen. A thermal couple was securely attached to the bottom 
of the cyst. 
 
 
  
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
 
國家科學委員會核定補助文號: NSC 97-2221-E-182 -001 
報告人姓名:戴金龍 
服務機構及職稱:長庚大學醫療機電研究所助理教授 
會議時間: 98.4.14-98.4.17 
會議地點: 紐西蘭、基督城（Christchurch, New Zealand） 
會議名稱: 第四屆亞太生物力學國際會議 
(Fourth Asian Pacific Conference on Biomechanics） 
發表論文:Effects of Femoral Head Osteonecrosis on Thermal Damage Potential at Cement/Bone 
Interface During Hip Resurfacing 
 
 
一、參加會議經過: 
本人此次獲行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫之補助，利用公假得以參加本(四)屆亞
太生物力學研討會(Fourth Asian Pacific Conference on Biomechanics, AP Biomech 2007)。本屆
會議係於 2009 年 4 月 14 至 17 日於紐西蘭基督城肯特伯力大學生物工程中心（The center 
for Bioengineering, University of Canterbury）舉行。可能由於會議舉辦地點過於遙遠，相較
於以往歷屆會議，本屆參與會議之歐美及亞洲區域學者明顯減少。共有約二百餘位學者與
會，會議論文以口頭及海報兩種方式發表。其中，口頭發表之論文約一百餘篇；海報部份亦
有四十餘篇；其中，口頭論文於四個會場同時舉行。本次大會，來自臺灣之研究人員包括成
功大學朱銘祥、陳家進教授師生；交通大學楊秉祥教授師生；嘉南大學張立東教授師生；慈
濟技術學院楊志鴻教授；高雄醫學大學郭藍遠教授師生......等，是本屆會議中，除日本外之
最大團隊（韓國次之）。彼此交換研究心得，獲益良多。與會其間，本人依事先排定之時
間，全程參與會議。 
此次參與會議之概況如下： 
本人於 4 月 11 日搭乘中華航空班機經由香港轉紐西蘭班機至紐西蘭北島之奧克蘭後
再次轉機至會議舉辦地點紐西蘭南島之基督城。會議期間共四天，會議結束後，於 4 月 19 
日搭乘紐西蘭班機依來程由基督城轉機奧克蘭後再次由香港轉機回抵台灣。 
本人獲大會接受發表之論文題目為：髖關節表面置換手術中，股骨球頭壞死對於骨水泥/骨
組織熱界面傷害之影響 (Effects of Femoral Head Osteonecrosis on Thermal Damage Potential at 
Cement/Bone Interface During Hip Resurfacing)。主要內容如下： 
髖關節表面置換術由於得以保留較多骨質的特性及人工關節接觸面設計的進步，近年來
已引起骨科界之興趣，並重新採行用以治療股骨球頭壞死。針對此一情況，林口長庚醫院曾
針對三十八名患有股骨球頭壞死之病患施以髖關節表面置換術，經術後臨床追蹤，證實效果
  
本次會議所涵蓋之主題廣泛，共有四個會場同時舉行。論文主題包括 Micro& Nano 
Biomechanics、Orthopaedic & Rehabilitation Biomechanics、Musculoskeletal Biomechanics、
Cardiovascular Mechanics 、 Computational Biomechanics 、 Mechanical Analysis & Its 
Applications、Dental Biomechanics、Sports & Impact Biomechanics、Bone Ligament、Gait & 
Motion Analysis & Impact Biomechanics 等。可依個人之研究領域及興趣，選擇相關之論文聆
聽或參與討論。由於本人向來專注於髖部人工關節及脊椎之生物力學實驗量測之基礎研究，
因此對於相關之論文，均依事先排定之時間，全程參與。其中對於諸多利用新科技進行高可
靠性實驗之相關論文，更是印象深刻。綜觀此次大會發表之股骨及脊椎生物力學相關論文
中，實際的實驗量測及有限元素分析約各占半數。由於本篇論文系統化的探討以骨水泥施行
髖關節表面置換術時：（1）骨水泥聚合反應的最高硬化溫度；（2）硬化溫度高於 50 ℃的
時間及（3）恆溫 37 ℃及與室溫沖水兩種不同植入方法的分析比較，引發與會人士的極大興
趣及廣泛討論。 
此外，經聆聽其他學者的成果後，本人對於 Caroline A. Grant (Queensland University of 
Technology)所發表之論文“Creation of a Validated 3D finite element model of an ovine tibia“有極
大之興趣，除於報告中提出問題外，更於會後與其針對相關議題，進行諸多討論。此篇論文
主要是利用羊脛骨以三維有限元素分析來探討骨質的機械常數，其中並以三點抗彎實驗進行
有限元素模型驗證。由於所有的有限元素分析均應包含實驗（Experiment）和模型
（Convergent Test）兩項驗證，該研究雖包含實驗驗證，卻未執行模型收歛測試，本人即於
討論時予以建議應再執行後續之有限元素模型收歛測試。此外，由於脛骨為非對稱結構，其
三點抗彎實驗數據卻為對稱關係，此一結論亦引發本人質疑。 
 
三、建議事項: 
綜上所述，為有效提升國內學術研究品質，並瞭解先進國家相關之研發趨勢，則參
與類似國際性學術會議，有絕對之必要性。因此，爾後應更加強鼓勵並補助相關研究人
員，多參與類似之國際性學術會議。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容: 
大會論文手冊(含所有發表論文摘要)及相關資料。 
發表之論文摘要如附件。 
 
 
 
