I中文摘要
關鍵詞：長週期光纖光柵，光子晶體光纖，可調式濾光器
我們在本計畫中採用應力法研製了具有多種可調特性之光子晶體光纖長週期光柵。採用
這種方法製作出來的長週期光纖光柵，其中心波長、工作帶寬和透射損耗等均為可調。目前
中心波長可以從 790 nm 調至 1590 nm，工作帶寬可從 10 nm 調至 250 nm，透射損耗則可從 0
dB 調至 18 dB。我們發現週期漸變的光子晶體光纖長週期光柵在某些光柵長度和啾頻條件之
下，穿透頻譜中會出現間距不等的一些尖峰，但當啾頻量降低或光柵長度增加時，這些尖峰
則會消失。我們把這種應力式長週期光纖光柵用在摻鉺光纖放大器的增益平坦化，從 1528 nm
到 1562 nm 的波長範圍中，放大器的增益變化在1 dB 以內。
11. Introduction
Photonic crystal fibers (PCFs) are typically silica optical fibers in which two-dimensional
periodic structures with a regular array of tiny air holes are introduced in the cladding region and
extend in the axial direction of the fiber [1]. Because the optical properties of photonic crystal
fibers depend on the size and pattern of air holes, various fiber designs have been proposed to
acquire several novel properties that are unprecedented in conventional fibers. These novel
properties include endless single-mode guiding, extremely high nonlinear optical coefficient,
controllable anomalous dispersion in the visible and near-infrared spectral ranges, and enhanced
birefringence effect. The unique dispersion and nonlinear properties of PCFs show potential
applications in fiber optic communication and sensor technology [2], and the novel mode-guiding
characteristics of PCFs have been utilized in the fabrication of fiber gratings.
Fiber gratings can be divided into two major types: fiber Bragg gratings (FBGs) and
long-period gratings (LPGs). FBG is based on Bragg reflection of the guided core mode to the
core mode of counter-propagating direction. On the other hand, a long-period fiber grating is a
fiber device with typical period of several hundred micrometers. It is a kind of transmission
grating based on the coupling of fundamental core mode to a series of co-propagation cladding
modes, and thus generating rejection bands in the transmission spectrum. The applications of
LPGs include band rejection filters, gain flattening of erbium-doped fiber amplifiers, sensor
technologies, and dispersion compensation, etc [3-5].
LPGs can be formed in fibers with UV exposure [6], electric arc discharging [7], or CO2 laser
inscription [8]. It is difficult to change the parameters such as grating period, grating length,
resonant wavelength, and maximal transmission loss once the gratings were fabricated in the fibers
by those methods. Lim et al. fabricated constant-period LPGs in PCF by using mechanical
pressure [9]. These LPGs were formed by pressing PCF with a periodically grooved metallic plate.
The wavelength of resonant peak could be tuned by adjusting the grating period on the PCF;
however, there were no reports on bandwidth-tunable LPGs.
In this project, we have developed a method to generate versatile tunable LPGs in a photonic
crystal fiber by using a constant-period V-grooved plate or a constant-period solenoidal device.
The central wavelength and rejection bandwidth of LPGs can be tuned over a broad spectral range
with adjustable transmission loss. An LPG with rejection bandwidth of 196 nm has been obtained
in a straight PCF with grating length of only 2 mm. Spectral fringes with uneven spacing are
observed in chirped LPGs. The spectral fringes can be removed by using proper LPG
configurations. We have also demonstrated gain flattening of an erbium-doped fiber amplifier by a
stress-induced PCF-LPG.
2. Experimental Setup
A V-grooved plate is constructed by engraving periodic parallel V-grooves on a metallic plate.
The plate is 6-cm long and 1-cm wide [10]. The V-grooves are 200 m in depth and the
3has a diameter of 400m, and consequently the pitch of the solenoidal device is also 400m. The
PCF is sandwiched between the solenoidal device and a flat metallic plate. As shown in Fig. 2, a
constant-period LPG is generated in the PCF when mechanical pressure is applied. We recorded
the transmission spectra of the generated PCF-LPG by launching the unpolarized white-light source
into one end of the PCF, while the other end was connected to the optical spectrum analyzer. By
changing the angle between PCF and the solenoid axis, we will obtain LPGs of different
properties.

PCF
Solenoidal Wiring
Fig. 2. Generation of LPG in a straight PCF by solenoidally wired post.
3. Results and Discussions
Fig. 3 shows the transmission spectra for constant-period LPGs made by tuning the angle of
the grooved plate against the axes of straight PCFs. The effective periodicity eff of the grating
increases with the angle:
cos
0eff (1)
where 0 is the periodicity of V-grooves and is the angle between PCF and the normal of
V-grooves [Fig. 1(b)]. For an LPG fabricated with a conventional fiber, the transmission spectrum
has dip at the wavelength corresponding to resonance with various cladding modes, and the
resonance wavelength increases with increasing grating periodicity [11]. However, the resonance
wavelength of PCF-LPG decreases with increasing grating periodicity, as shown in Fig. 3. The
center wavelength of LPG can be tuned from 790 nm to 1590 nm as the effective period is reduced
from 805 m to 470 m, and the grating length is increased from 1.2 cm to 1.9 cm. Accordingly,
the rejection bandwidth has been changed between 10 nm and 35 nm. The transmission loss of the
constant-period LPG can be further increased to 18 dB, but the PCF will be broken if the applied
mechanical stress is too large.
According to the coupled-mode theory, the resonance wavelength res and the effective
grating pitcheff are related by the phase-matching condition [3]:
)]()([  cleffcoeffeffres nn  (2)
where the effective indices of the core mode )(coeffn and the cladding modes )(cladeffn are
functions of the resonant wavelengths. When the grating is tilted, the number of periods in the
5Fig. 1(f). In this case, the periodicity of LPG along PCF increases first, and then decreases, which
is contrary to Fig. 1(e). The results in Fig. 4(b) are obtained for bent PCF of different curvatures:
curve (4) < curve (5) < curve (6). The center wavelength of this PCF-LPG is shifted from 1363
nm to 1549 nm, and the 3-dB rejection bandwidth is changed from 147 nm to 195 nm. While
monitoring the transmission spectrum on optical spectrum analyzer, we released the mechanical
pressure applied on the PCF and found that the transmission spectrum restored to the original
background spectrum almost instantly (< 0.5 second). The main technical drawback of this
stress-induced LPG is the tendency to drift in the adjustment of angle and curvature for PCF in
practical applications. Nevertheless, it would be a useful laboratory tool as a versatile tunable
filter.
By using the configuration of Fig. 1 (c), we found that the chirped single-LPG would show
spectral fringes [Fig. 4(c)], and the modulation depth increases with increasing pressure [Fig. 4(d)].
The fringe spacing could be unevenly ranging from 43 nm to 110 nm as curve (7) in Fig. 4(c),
depending on the interaction length and the amount of chirping between the two ends of the LPG.
With chirped single-LPG configuration of reduced chirping and increased grating length (from 2.4
cm to 3.3 cm), we find that the spectral fringes will disappear in the rejection band [curve (8)].
Therefore, chirped single-LPG can be fabricated with the configuration of Fig. 1(c) to either
generate or eliminate the modulation peaks.
Fig. 4. Transmission spectra for (a) chirped single-LPG, and (b) chirped single-LPG by
rotating 90 degrees of the V-grooved metallic plate. (c) Spectral fringes can be
obtained from chirped single-LPGs, and the fringes can be eliminated with proper
configuration. (d) Spectral fringes with different pressures.
7must use a solenoidal device with larger cross-sectional diameter.
1000 1200 1400 1600
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
In
te
n
si
ty
(a
.u
.)
Wavelength (nm)
(a)
1000 1200 1400 1600
-15
-10
-5
0
5
In
te
n
si
ty
(a
.u
.)
Wavelength (nm)
(b)
1000 1200 1400 1600
-15
-10
-5
0
In
te
n
si
ty
(a
.u
.)
Wavelength (nm)
(c)
Fig. 6. Measured transmission spectra of PCF-LPGs with (a)= 0, (b)= 10.5, and (c)=
24.8.
As shown by Eq. (2), the effective grating period will be increased when the angle between
PCF and solenoid axis is increased. The resonance wavelength of an LPG depends on the LPG
period as well as on the effective refractive indices of the core mode ( coeffn ) and cladding mode
( cladeffn ). According to the phase matching condition, the resonance wavelength can be calculated
by Eq. (1). From the measured resonance wavelengths of Fig. 6, the difference of effective
refractive indicesneff between the core mode and the cladding mode:
clad
eff
co
effeff nnn  (3)
is estimated to be 4.04 10-3, 3.26 10-3, and 2.94 10-3 for = 0, = 10.5, and = 24.8,
respectively. As shown by Eq. (2), the resonance wavelengths of LPGs can be tuned by changing
eff or neff. If either eff or neff of the LPG is varying along the fiber, each section of the
PCF-LPG will have different resonance wavelengths, and the superposition of individual
transmission spectrum will lead to a large overall LPG resonance bandwidth. We also expect that
by simultaneously varying neff and bending PCF, the resonance bandwidth of LPG can be
dramatically enhanced. For the PCF-LPG generated by solenoidal device, the cross sections of the
PCF will be gradually changed from a circle to an oval, and then become a circle again. Under
such circumstance,neff will be continuously varying along the PCF axis due to the deformation of
core and cladding profiles. The maximum difference inneff, designated asnmax, occurs between
the edge and the center of LPG. The value of nmax will be increases by increasing the normal
force between the solenoidal device and the PCF, which results in an enhanced deformation of the
PCF. For a larger tuning angle, the length of generated LPG is reduced, and the applied pressure
will be increased, leading to a larger value of nmax. In view of Eq. (2), the superposition of
sectional transmission spectrum eventually leads to a large overall LPG bandwidth. The above
reasons explain why the measured resonance bandwidth increases with the tuning angle , even
though the PCF is not bent.
4. Conclusions
In this project, we have generated both broadband chirped LPGs and constant-period LPGs in
a bent photonic crystal fiber by using a constant period V-grooved plate. The central wavelength
9temperature measurement with long-period gratings,”Opt. Lett. 22, 648-650 (1997).
6. E. M. Dianov, D. S. Stardubov, S. A. Vasiliev, A. A. Frolov, and O. I. Medvedkov,
"Refractive-index gratings written by near-ultraviolet radiation," Opt. Lett. 22, 221-223 (1997).
7. G. Humbert, A. Malki, S. Fevrier, P. Roy, and D. Pagnoux,“Electric arc-induced long-period
gratings in Ge-free air-silica microstructure fibres,”Electron. Lett. 39, 349-350 (2003).
8. G. Kakarantzas, T. A. Birks, and P. St. J. Russell, “Structural long-period gratings in photonic
crystal fibers,”Opt. Lett. 27, 1013-1015 (2002).
9. J. H. Lim, K. S. Lee, J. C. Kim, and B. H. Lee,“Tunable fiber gratings fabricated in photonic 
crystal fiber by use of mechanical pressure,”Opt. Lett. 29, 331-333 (2004).
10. H. -R. Chen, K. -H. Lin, J. -H. Lin, and W. -F. Hsieh,“Stress-induced versatile tunable
long-period gratings in photonic crystal fibers,”IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett. 20, 1503-1505
(2008).
11. L. F. Mollenauer, “Mechanically induced long period optical fiber gratings,” U.S. Patent 6 408
117 B1 (2002).
二、與會心得
(1)光電暨通訊研討會(OECC)是每年舉辦一次的大型國際光電研討會，在研討會中能與
各國的光電研究人員進行專業的交流討論，亦可藉由面對面的交談，進而了解各國光
電研究和產業的發展現況，以及會議舉辦地區的風土民情，收穫甚多。
(2)在 Tutorial Sessions中有一場 Prof. Benjamin J. Eggleton的演講：“Ultrafast Nonlinear
Optics for Signal Processing: Breaking the Terabit-per-second Barrier”，其中介紹了超快
非線性光學最近的進展以及一些可應用在訊號處理上的非線性材料，並且討論到色散
工程及慢光效應等。Prof. Eggleton的演講與本人的研究主題相關，而且資料中採用了
許多動畫模擬，整體內容非常生動流暢，令人受益匪淺。
(3)在 Technical Sessions和 Poster Sessions中，對於自己研究相關以及感到興趣的論文，
可以當場向作者提問和討論。尤其是在 Poster Sessions時，由於時間較為充裕，形式
也較為自由，因此可以進行較為深入的請教和討論。
三、建議
(1)國內可以多辦一些大型的國際光電學術研討會，加強和各國光電專家學者進行討論交
流，除了可以獲得第一手的最新資訊，亦可藉著面對面的溝通互動，建立起和國外光
電研究團隊的專業聯繫網和合作關係。
(2)此次研討會舉辦場地是在香港會議展覽中心，地點就在維多利亞港旁邊。主辦單位結
合了香港旅遊資源，並且發放旅遊摺頁和廣告，這對於當地的觀光產業應有一定的幫
助。建議我們未來在舉辦國際研討會的時候，可結合當地的旅遊資源，讓國際會議更
願意到台灣舉辦，亦可同時推廣台灣觀光產業。
四、攜回資料名稱及內容
(1) OECC2009 Conference Program手冊
(2) OECC2009論文光碟
(3) OECC2010預定訊息及一些光電產品的資料
