 
報告內容： 
 
（1） 前言： 
        The nanoscale quantum confined ring structures (quantum rings) have attracted efforts in 
research for decades due to their unique excitation properties [1-12] and potential in the 
implementation of spintronic technology. For a semiconductor quantum ring (QR) structure, 
it is predicted that its ring shape potential can trap single magnetic flux and thus has large 
permeability under certain magnetic fields. So the semiconductor QRs possess the potential 
to serve as simulated magnetic materials for the part of memory device integrated in single 
chip. 
 Within the methods of fabricating semiconductor QRs, self-assembled growth using 
molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) technology might be the most promising one [13-21]. 
Because of the fabrication within single growth run without necessity of process, 
self-assembled QRs eliminate severe interface defect and thus have high quantum efficiency. 
This high quantum efficiency permits good opportunity to meet the requirement of device 
application. 
For the formation of InAs QRs in GaAs matrix, the capping and annealing procedure 
with a thin GaAs layer deposited on top of the InAs quantum dots (QDs) is commonly used. 
The partially capped QDs allow outward migration of In atoms from the tips of the dots to the 
surrounding region during annealing. Quantum rings are therefore formed because of the 
depletion of In at the center of the dots.  
By use of this capping and annealing technique, QRs with different geometries can be 
fabricated. These defect free self-assembled QRs are therefore the best candidates for us to 
examine the interest properties due to ring-shape confinement. 
 
（2） 研究方法: 
In this project, we have investigated the evolution of the quantized energy levels of 
InAs/GaAs nanostructures with the shape transformation from QDs to QRs. By controlling 
the extent of outward migration of In material, we were able to obtain nanostructures at 
different stages in QR formation. The dependence of their first few quantum levels on shape 
change provided us useful information about the dominant confinement effect on these 
discrete levels. The diamagnetic shift and Lande’ factor (g factor), which are associated with 
spin Zeeman splitting, are also investigated for these QRs. Besides, we have exploited the 
property of QR’s shallower ground state level to implement long wavelength infrared 
photodetectors. Compared with the conventional quantum dot infrared photodetector (QDIP), 
quantum ring infrared photodetector (QRIP) has a wider range of detection spectrum and, 
more important, its detection peak is extended to the long wavelength atmospheric 
transmission window, more suitable for the application of long distance sensing. All samples 
used in this study were grown on S.I. GaAs (001) substrates by a Varian GEN II solid-source 
MBE system with a valved cracker source of Arsenic. The samples used for examining 
optical or magnetic-optic properties comprise a single InAs QD or QR layer sandwiched 
between two GaAs barrier layers. But the growth structure for the QRIP device contains ten 
stacked InAs QR layers separated by 50nm GaAs barrier layers for thicker total absorption 
media. For all samples, an additional InAs layer with the same growth condition as the 
embedded InAs layer was grown on the surface for the purpose of AFM measurement. The 
surface morphologies of our samples were characterized by a Digital-Instrument-D3100 
AFM using the tapping mode. The emission spectra of the QDs or QRs were measured by 
 2
Once the In material depleted from the central part of the original QD outward migrates 
further, the left hole becomes deeper and larger. In this case, more mature ring-like structures 
are formed, as shown in Fig. 1(c) and (c’). In order to realize a true quantum “ring”, the 
electron’s wavefunction should be confined in the rim of the ring but not penetrating to the 
center. So the crater-like holes in these ring structures should be as deep as possible. In other 
words, more space is required to allow further outward migration of InAs to form realistic 
isolated QRs. Therefore, a low density initial QD layer is needed to fabricate true QRs. 
Sample IV, of which the initial QDs’ density was purposely grown low (about 4 x109 cm-2), 
has the most mature, large QRs. Its AFM data are shown in Fig. 1(d) and (d’). Judging from 
Fig 1(d’), the center holes of the QRs in sample IV are as deep as 2.6nm and almost penetrate 
to the InAs wetting layer. These large QRs are thus expected to serve as the best candidate to 
show unique QR’s properties. 
 
The PL emission spectra of the four samples are shown in Fig. 2. When the excitation 
power was low, only ground state emission could be observed in each spectrum, as shown in 
Fig. 2(a). We can see very clear the ground state energy gradually shifts to the high energy 
 
FIG. 2. The photoluminescence spectra of sample I to IV with (a) low excitation power and (b) high excitation power taken 
at 15K. 
side when the QDs undergo shape transformation through volcanos to rings. The shift in 
energy is readily understood because the height of the origin dots, especially for the central 
part, has been reduced as the nano volcanoes were formed (see Fig. 1(a’) and (b’)). Because 
the ground state energy is dominated by the strongest quantization in the vertical direction, 
the shrinkage of the thickness of these volcanos or rings results in a blue shift in energy. The 
highest ground-state peak energy belongs to the large QRs in sample IV, which have the 
narrowest thickness of InAs in the center. When the excitation power was raised high enough, 
the first excited state emission could be also observed clearly in each spectrum, as shown in 
Fig. 2(b). Their energy separations from that of the ground state are also marked in Fig. 2(b). 
We can see that although the quantized energy of the ground state becomes larger with the 
ring transformation, the energy separation of the first two discrete levels instead becomes 
smaller. This phenomenon can be understood by considering the quantization caused by the 
in-plane confinement. In general, the quantization caused by the vertical direction is so strong 
that only one localized state is allowed in the self-assembled QDs or QRs. Any excited state 
emissions from QDs or QRs in the spectrum should come from the quantization due to the 
lateral confinement. In this case, the energy separations of these quantized levels should be 
determined by the lateral dimension of QDs or QRs. Judging from Fig. 1(a’) to (d’), the 
 4
the system resolution) originate from three-dimension confined quantum structures, quantum 
rings in this sample. With magnetic field increasing, each line shifts and splits into two lines, 
that is well described by the simple equation 
 
E± = E0 ± 1/2 gex μBB + β B2 
 
where E0 is the zero-field transition energy; ± 1/2 is the spin quantum number; gex is the 
effective g factor of the exciton; μB is the Bohr magneton; β is the diamagnetic coefficient. 
This splitting is called “spin Zeeman splitting” as the second term in the equation; the shift is 
“diamagnetic shift” reflecting the square of the spatial extension of carrier wave function as 
the third term. Six emission lines (pointed by arrows in Fig. 4(a)) are fitted well with this 
equation as shown in Fig. 4(b) and (c). From the fitting, the g factor and the diamagnetic 
coefficient are extracted. The diamagnetic coefficients are 10.7±0.7μeV/T2 in different lines. 
Using the parabolic radical potential model and assumed effective mass me = 0.07m0 and 
mh=0.3m0, extension radius of carrier wave function is 10nm which is comparable to the 
observed ring radius (13nm) by the atomic force microscopy. Furthermore, the emission lines 
are from not only neutral exciton but charged exciton because detected emission lines are 
more than the measured rings. The diamagnetic coefficients differ by only 7%, almost 
independent of the excitonic charge. This small variation implies a strong potential 
confinement in quantum rings. In other words, the quantization energies dominate over the 
Coulomb energies. The g factors, showed in Fig 5, range from -1.3 to -2 and seem to be 
relative to peak energies. In this stage, we can’t distinguish emission lines originating from 
exciton, charged exciton and biexciton. Power dependent PL is the solution to this argument 
and the next step in our experiment. That can help us to build a model on the g factor in 
quantum rings. 
 
 
FIG. 4. (a)μ-PL spectra of InAs/GaAs QR for different magnetic fields applied along the growth direction. The inset shows 
detailed spectra from the major peak. (b) Zeeman splitting energy vs B, and (c) Diamagnetic shift energy vs B2  obtained for 
the major peak. 
 
 6
of this increase, different from that observed in QWIPs, is primarily due to the Pouli exclusion 
in the zero-dimensional quantum system. This repulsion force largely lowers the capture rate of 
the photo-electrons when the number of electrons in QRs on steady state increases with bias 
current. The discreteness in the QR’s density of states is confirmed here although the inplane 
confinement effect is much weaker than the vertical confinement. 
 
FIG. 7. The bias dependent peak responsivity of the QRIP sample. 
 
 
IV. Conclusions  
We have studied the effect of quantized energy levels on self-assembled InAs quantum 
rings formation. With the shape transformation from QDs to QRs, the positions of the 
discrete quantized levels change apparently. The ground state energy increases due to the 
increased quantization effect in the vertical direction. But the separation between the lowest 
two energy levels becomes narrower because the lateral quantization effect becomes weak. 
The TEM images of both plane view and cross-section view were also studied for the sample 
with the most mature QRs. The result confirms the ring-shape distribution of InAs material in 
the embedded layer, so that true QRs are formed and are expected to possess the special 
ring’s properties. Taking advantage of the higher ground state energy of QRs, the device of 
QRIP was fabricated and investigated. Compared with QDIP, the detection peak of QRIP was 
extended to the long wavelength atmospheric transmission window. So infrared detectors 
with QRs as the absorption media is suitable for long distance sensing. 
 
 
 
 
（4） 參考文獻： 
 
[1] A. Lorke and R. J. Luyken,     Physica B. 256-258, 424 (1998) 
[2] Axel Lorke, R. Johannes Luyken , Alexander O. Govorov , and Jörg P. Kotthaus,    
Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 2223 (2000) 
[3] Agustí Emperador, Martí Pi, Manuel Barranco, Axel Lorke    Phys. Rev. B 62, 4573 
(2000) 
 8
