the device characteristic control by magnetic field 
will be also explored. This report describes the 
result of the construction of infrastructure and 
measurement facilities. 
英文關鍵詞： scattering parameters, device parameters extraction, 
cryogenicc refrigerator, cryogenic probe station 
 
中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords) 
石墨烯是制作未來電子元件最有潛力的材料之一。自從於 2004 年被發現以來，在理論、制
作甚至量測實驗上已有各種不同的元件被探討。在實驗方面，金-氧-石墨烯場效電晶體已被
製作出來，截止頻率量測值已達 100GHz。在理論預測方面，石墨烯用於製作倍頻器、兆赫
波電漿體振盪器、及光電電晶體的潛力皆有深入探討。但是，這些研究多著重在材料及元
件物理特性之探討，至今仍少見有關毫米波及次毫米波方面有系統的量測研究。在本計劃
中，原定於三年內，我們將對石墨烯微波電路的基本組成元件進行有系統的探討，包括微
帶線、共面波導、石墨烯-金屬接面(電阻接面及蕭特基接面)、及微波到次毫米波頻段之石
墨烯偵測器、振盪器、倍頻器等元件之研究。量測的項目包括 900GHz 以下之純量量測，
50GHz 以下之散射矩陣參數及元件參數萃取，及外加磁場對元件特性之控制及影響。在這
份第一年的成果報告中，將描述基礎量測設施之設計與建置成果。 
 
Graphene is one of the most promising materials for future electronic devices. After its discovery 
in 2004, various devices have been explored, either in theoretical aspect only or both in 
fabrication and measurement. In experiment, the metal-oxide-graphene field-effect transistors 
have been fabricated, and 100GHz cutoff frequency was also measured. In theoretical prediction, 
the potential to fabricated frequency multipliers, terahertz plasmon oscillators, and 
phototransistor are proposed. However, those researches are mainly done for studying the 
material or device physics, and so far the millimeter-wave and submillimeter-wave measurement 
have not explored yet. In this originally 3-year project, we propose to study the basic building 
block of the graphene microwave circuit like the microstrip line, coplanar waveguide, 
graphene-metal contacts (ohmic contact and Schottky contact), and the further microwave to 
submillimeter-wave detectors (including mixer), oscillators, and frequency multiplier devices will 
be studied, fabricated and measured. The measurement includes scalar high-speed frequency 
response up to 900GHz, and the scattering parameter and the equivalent circuit model extraction 
up to 50GHz, and the device characteristic control by magnetic field will be also explored. This 
report describes the result of the construction of infrastructure and measurement facilities.  
關鍵詞: 散射矩陣參數、元件參數萃取、低溫冷凍機、低溫探針平臺 
keywords: scattering parameters, device parameters extraction, cryogenicc refrigerator, 
cryogenic probe station 
to the typical approach of the low-noise receiver of the millimeter-wave and submillimeter-wave 
astronomical instrumentations. After surveying the literature, it is obvious that there is not any 
other institution explore this field. 
 
 In our plan, the first step is to explore the basic building block of the graphene microwave 
circuit like the microstrip line, coplanar waveguide, capacitor and inductors. Since the pure 
graphene is a semi-metal or zero-energy-gap semiconductor, graphene-metal contacts (ohmic 
contact and Schottky contact) and graphene Schottky diode. Since graphene is a 2-dimensional 
nano-material, its metal properties behave like an ideal 2-dimensional electronic gas. Thus, the 
using this 2-DEG devices could implement various kind of conventional electronic devices like 
metal-graphene-metal (MGM) photo-detectors, metal- graphene field-effect transistors for 
high-frequency application. The measurement includes scalar high frequency response up to 
900GHz, and the scattering parameter and the equivalent circuit model extraction up to 50GHz, 
the photonic response, and the device characteristic control by magnetic field will be also 
explored. 
研究方法 
The first-year activities focused on the establishment of infrastructure key facilities for 
measurement in microwave to millimeter-wave frequency range, due to lack of fabrication 
facilities, we focus on studying the feasible device structure and looking for the potential partners 
for collaboration on the graphene planar circuit and the graphene nano-ribbons fabrication. 
 
The major items of the infrastructure key facilities for measurement include the followings,  
(a) multiple-function 4.2K closed cycle refrigerator system.  
(b) cryogenic scattering parameter measurement and device equivalent circuit extraction system,  
(c) grapheme fabrication standard process,  
(d) system integration of the existing 50GHz phasor network analyzer and submillimeter-wave 
signal source to (a) and (b). 
 
The measurement key facilities are all based on the equipments bought for other existing projects 
of the Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy and Astrophysics (ASIAA). In the ASIAA 
microwave device laboratory, a microwave probe station, a 50 GHz phasor network analyzer 
(Agilent E8364B), an extended-W-band (68 – 118 GHz) vector network analyzer (Agilent 
85106D) and associate 50 GHz signal generators (Agilent E8257D option-550), noise figure 
analyzers, power meters and sensors can be used for the testing in this project.  
The room- temperature measurement can be implemented by the probe station now in ASIAA 
microwave device laboratory. For cryogenic measurement, two types of measurements are 
considered, one is the packaged graphene circuit measurement for lower frequency, and the other 
studied. 
 
The reason to choice this topic as beginning is because this simple topic is the fundamental 
building block and interconnect element of the future all-graphene electronic integrated circuit 
but so far, there are no research on this topic yet. Besides, base on the existing publications and 
the basic knowledge, it is expected that the grapheme planar circuits should have the excellent, 
might be the ideal lossless characteristics at cryogenic temperature even up to submillimeter- 
wave frequencies. To ensure the fabrication technique has enough time to reach stable quality, 
choosing simple structure at beginning is also a more reliable approach. 
 
The fabrication of the graphene film and the control of the graphene film quality is the key issue 
of the first-year progress. For this part, various fabrication processes of graphene films, like 
graphene oxide paper react with hydrazine [14], metal type sodium react with ethanol [15], and 
cutting carbon nanotube [16] are considered. The next technical challenge is to transfer the 
graphene film to the substrate and form a high-quality, stable, and reliable film on substrate. The 
metal-graphene ohmic contact quality is another issue. The future etching process is another issue. 
Those are all done by other institution worldwide, but we have to find the technical detail in the 
laboratory. The experience of the super-conductor device fabrication in ASIAA will be the basis 
of this part.  
 
結果與討論 
Part I. Construction of the Testing Facilities  
First year target working items accomplished are (a) multiple-function 4.2K closed-cycle 
refrigerator system, (b) cryogenic scattering parameter measurement and device equivalent 
circuit extraction system. The results are described below. 
 
(a) multiple-function 4.2K closed-cycle refrigerator system.  
 
The refrigerator system is to provide general purpose testing capability of the microwave and 
millimeter-wave testing. The core part is a Sumitomo RDK-415D 2-stage 4.2K closed-cycle 
refrigerator cold head. To ensure the mechanical outline can fit to the integration of the coaxial 
cables and the flanged waveguide sections with proper alignment, the popular cylindrical shape 
vacuum chamber is not considered, in stead, we choose square cross-section vacuum chamber to 
ensure the vacuum feed thru port are either in parallel or orthogonal direction. 
 
The related radiation shield and cold plate is also use square shape. The cold head is with 1.5W 
cooling power in 4-K stage, and 45W cooling power at 50K radiation shield stage, when 
 Figure 1. Outline drawing of the whole assembly of the multiple-function 4.2K closed- cycle 
refrigerator system. 
 
Figure 2. Cryogenic chamber under assembly, with radiation shield assembled in half way, the 
center of the picture is the 4 – K cold head. 
(b) cryogenic scattering parameter measurement and device equivalent circuit extraction 
system. 
 
The cryogenic scattering parameter measurement and device equivalent circuit extraction system, 
or simply called cryogenic probe station, is aimed to calibrate the measurement reference plan to 
the probe tips in cryogenic environment. The design is much complex if compared to the 
multiple-function 4.2K closed-cycle refrigerator system. The problem is the mechanical accuracy 
and stability: The probe testing system for modern microwave measurement required accuracy 
down to 10 micrometer positioning, and the vibration should be suppressed down to sub-micron 
level. Adding these two factors, the system becomes much more complex than simply test 
refrigerators for packaged circuit components. 
 
Figure 5 show the outline drawing of the whole assembly. The vibration from the cold head is 
suppressed by adding bellow section on the bottom of the vacuum chamber. However, the bellow 
section is affect by the force introduced by the pressure difference between outside environment 
and the vacuum environment. A batch of counterweight is added to the bottom of the cold head to 
balance this pressure difference, and set a stable support of the cold head to the ground plane of 
the floor. With the chamber sit on the air-suspended optical bench with independent support to the 
ground plane, the vibration is then isolated to the chamber. The thermal links of the 70-K 
radiation shield and the 15-K test plate to the cold head are implemented by using Oxygen-free 
high-purity copper (OFHC) flexible strips, with low-thermal conduction rigid rods to support 
70-K radiation shield and the 15-K test plate above the bottom plate of the chamber. Figure 6 
shows the final assembled system. 
 
Figure 7 shows the detail of the 3-axis translation stage with bellow section to adjust the position 
of the probe tip connect the coaxial signal from room temperature to the RF or DC probe head 
attached to the device under test in cryogenic environment. For maximal requirement, we may 
need three RF probe for signal input / output, and one DC probe to provide bias. Thus, four 3-axis 
translation stages and bellow sections are prepared. 
 
 
Figure 6. the photograh of the assembled cryogenic probe station. 
 
Figure 7 detail view of the exterior structure of the 3-axis translation stage with bellow section for 
cryogenic probe arm. 
 
“Device Model for Graphene Nanoribbon Phototransistor,” Applied Physics Express, vol. 1, 
no. 6, pp. 063002 June 2008. 
[10] F. Xia, T. Mueller, Y.-M. Lin, A. Valdes-Garcia and P. Avouris, “Ultrafast graphene 
photodetector,” Nature Nanotech., vol. 4. pp. 839-843, Dec. 2009. 
[11] M J. W. Rodwell, S. T. Allen, R. Y. Yu, M. G. Case, U. Bhattacharya, M. Reddy, E. Carman, 
M. Kamegawa, Y. Konishi , J. Pusl, and R. Pullela, “Active and Nonlinear Wave Propagation 
Devices in Ultrafast Electronics and Optoelectronics,” Proc. IEEE, vol. 82, no. 7, pp. 
1037-1059, July, 1994. 
[12] S. Hofschen and I. Wolff, “Simulation of an elevated coplanar waveguide using 2-D FDTD,” 
IEEE Microwave Guided Wave Lett., vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 28-30, Jan., 1996. 
[13] F. Schnieder, R. Doerner, and W. Heinrich, “High-impedance coplanar waveguides with low 
attenuation,” IEEE Microwave Guided Wave Lett., vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 117-119, Mar., 1996. 
[14] Vincent C. Tung, Matthew J. Allen, Yang Yang, Richard B. Kaner, “High-throughput 
solution processing of large-scale graphene,” Nature Nanotechnology vol. 4, no.1, pp. 25-29, 
Nov. 2008. 
[15] Mohammad Choucair, Pall Thordarson and John A. Stride “Gram-scale production of 
graphene based on solvothermal synthesis and sonication,” Nature Nanotechnology vol. 4, 
no.1, pp. 30-33, Nov. 2008. 
[16] Liying Jiao, Li Zhang, Xinran Wang, Georgi Diankov & Hongjie Dai, “Narrow graphene 
nanoribbons from carbon nanotubes,” Nature, vol. 458, pp. 877-880,16 April 2009. 
[17] Amirhasan Nourbakhsh, Mirco Cantoro, Afshin Hadipour, Tom Vosch, Marleen H. van der 
Veen, Marc M. Heyns, Bert F. Sels, and Stefan De Gendt, “Modified, semiconducting 
graphene in contact with a metal: characterization of the Schottky diode,” Applied Physics 
Letters, vol. 97, pp. 163101, 2010. 
[18] Yuanbo Zhang, Tsung-Ta Tang, Caglar Girit, Zhao Hao, Michael C. Martin, Alex Zettl, Michael F. 
Crommie, Y. Ron Shen ,and Feng Wang, “Direct observation of a widely tunable bandgap in 
bilayer graphene,” Nature, vol. 459, pp. 820-823, June 2009. 
[19] D. Dragoman, M. Dragoman, “Negative differential resistance of electrons in graphene 
barrier,” Applied Physics Letters, vol. 90, 143111, 2007. 
[20] Han Wang, Daniel Nezich, Jing Kong, and Tomas Palacios, “Graphene frequency 
multipliers,” IEEE Electron Device Letters, vol. 30, no. 5, pp. 547-549, May 2009. 
[21] Junfeng Liu, A. R. Wright, Chao Zhang, and Zhongshui Ma, “Strong terahertz conductance 
of graphene nanoribbons under a magnetic field,” Applied Physics Letters, vol. 93, 041106, 
2008. 
[22] C. R. Dean, A. F. Young, I. Meric, C. Lee, L. Wang, S. Sorgenfrei, K. Watanabe, T. 
Taniguchi, P. Kim, K. L. Shepard, and J. Hone, “Boron nitride substrates for high-quality 
graphene electronics” Nature Nanotechnology, vol. 5, pp. 722- 726, Oct. 2010. 
year, and most of the works on heterodyne receivers are in the poster sessions. With 
only two-hour presentation period, I extensive discussed the technology on 
cryogenically cooled millimeter-wave amplifier modules with several Italian 
engineers, and many useful suggestions to improve our works have been obtained. 
Besides that, I also discussed the phase lock of the local oscillator with photonic 
source in ALMA with Dr. Bill Shillue from NRAO, 4-mm heterodyne receiver in 
Green Bank Telescope with Dr. Steven White from NRAO, submillimeter-wave 
photonic mixer development with Prof. Michael from Univ. of Chile. Actually, there 
are many useful topics presented in the poster session, for the other interested posters 
not discussing with authors due to limited time, I plan to discuss by email exchange in 
the near future. 
 
On Wednesday morning, there are two plenary speeches, one is about the very high 
energy Gamma ray astronomy with HESS telescope, and the other is about the cosmic 
microwave background observation. The very high energy Gamma ray astronomy has 
to rely on space instrumentation, or use the atmosphere as calorimeter to observe the 
transient photon generated by Cerenkov radiation. I think this part is the field 
unexplored by our institute but it is a quit significant part of astronomy, it is good to 
keep watch on this. The second plenary speech is highly related to our work on Array 
for Microwave background Anisotropy (AMiBA), there are two points given by the 
speaker worth to be noted. One is the B-mode polarization. This is commonly 
regarded as Holy Grail of the cosmology, but with so many observations, there is still 
no evidence to prove its existence. The other is the Sunyaev-Zeldovich clusters, 
all-sky survey of those galaxies clusters is one of the important tasks of the near 
future microwave background observation.  
 
The conference sessions I attended on Wednesday afternoon are Session 17 and 18 of 
SPIE 8444. These two sessions are related to the new site and the related instrument 
projects the Greenland telescope collaborated with SAO is one of the presentations. 
National Astronomical Observatories of China also presented their optical site 
characterization in Tibet (and some candidate site in Xinjiang) and Antarctica. The 
potential capability of the submillimeter- wave and THz astronomy in these two sites 
were not addressed. 
 
The conference sessions I attended on Thursday are session 6, 7, and 8 of SPIE 8452. 
There are several presentations of the heterodyne receivers in THz frequencies, and 
also some ALMA receiver works. The German Receiver for Astronomy in Terahertz 
to be installed in Stratospheric Observatory of Far-Infrared Astronomy (SOFIA- 
Keiichi Asada, Dr. Satoki Matsushita, Dr. Ciska Kemper, Dr. Matthew Lehner, and me. 
There is one presentation from other institute and university in Taiwan, a postdoctoral 
fellow from Nano-Device Laboratory (NDL) presented his work on the cryogenic 
CMOS transistor for high-speed ADC. Our collaborators Dr. Ray Blundell 
(SMA/SAO), Dr. Keith Yeung (Herzberg Institute of Astrophysics), Sri (National 
Radio Astronomy Observatory), and Prof. Patricio Mena (Univ. of Chile) also attend 
the conference. The interaction with the scientists and engineers from other 
institutions are the most valuable income of attending the meeting. 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃裕津 計畫編號：100-2221-E-001-020- 
計畫名稱：應用於微波到次毫米波之石墨烯平面電路及信號產生及偵測元件研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 40% 
篇 
原訂三年計畫僅
核定一年，大部份
用於發展基礎設
施，目前之會議論
文為利用設施所
做，深入研究待多
項技術突破，假以
時日方能有成果
產出。 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
