configurations through the acquisition of new 
auxiliary tools. This paper proposes a mixed integer 
linear programming model for capacity planning that 
incorporates practical characteristics and 
constraints in TFT-LCD manufacturing. A shadow-price 
based heuristic is developed to find a near-optimal 
solution. Preliminary computational study shows that 
the proposed heuristic provides good quality 
solutions in a reasonable amount of time. The 
proposed heuristic outperforms the traditional branch 
and bound method as the data size becomes large. 
英文關鍵詞： Capacity planning, TFT-LCD manufacturing, mixed 
integer linear programming, shadow price 
 
 2
摘要 
隨著高科技的進步，新興的薄膜電晶體液晶顯示器取代 CRT 顯示器，也帶動了 TFT-LCD
製造業的崛起。由於下列四大趨勢，而使的產能規劃問題變成了 TFT-LCD 產業日益重要：（1）
多階層、多世代與多廠區共存的生產鏈結構、（2）複雜的產品階層結構而造成了 TFT-LCD 面
板可生產產品種類繁多且廣泛、（3）成長快速的產品需求。 
在這些有限產能供給、特殊生產結構與快速成長不確定需求的特性下，TFT-LCD 產業必
須面臨了因供給與需求不平衡而造成的產能規劃議題，包含了兩大決策問題：（1）產能分配決
策：決定每個生產廠區的最大化利潤產品族組合與每個廠區對於每個產品的最適生產數量（2）
產能擴充決策：決定哪種類型的產能（各廠區總產能或各廠區對各產品族產能）在哪些廠區需
要擴充或是要設立新的生產廠區來增加產能、該類型的產能有多少量需要被擴充或增加以及要
透過購買多少機台或是附屬資源來擴充產能。 
故本研究針對此問題提出了一個混合整數規劃數學模式來模是化此問題，但是由於此混合
整數規劃模式相當複雜且難解，當要使用實際 TFT-LCD 產業的資料在透過一般最佳化商用軟
體(例如：LINGO 或 CPLEX 求解器)進行求解時，都會因為大量的資料而無法在合理時間內求
得最佳解。因此本研究觀察了該數學模型發現有個重要的特性，提出了一個創新「以陰影價格
為基啟發演算法(Shadow-Price Based Heuristic)」來求解實際大型的產能規劃問題。 
 
關鍵字：液晶顯示器、生產鏈、產能規劃、混和整數規劃、陰影價格 
 
Abstract 
This paper studies the capacity planning and expansion for the thin film transistor - liquid 
crystal display (TFT-LCD) manufacturing. Capacity planning is critical to TFT-LCD industry due to 
its complex product hierarchy and increasing product types; the coexistence of multiple generations 
of manufacturing technologies in a multi-site production environment; and the rapidly growing 
market demands. One key purpose of capacity planning is to simultaneously determine the profitable 
“product mix” and “production quantities” of each product group across various generation sites in a 
particular period and the optimal “capacity expansion quantity” of specific product groups at a 
certain site to improve the limited flexibility configurations through the acquisition of new auxiliary 
tools. This paper proposes a mixed integer linear programming model for capacity planning that 
incorporates practical characteristics and constraints in TFT-LCD manufacturing. A shadow-price 
based heuristic is developed to find a near-optimal solution. Preliminary computational study shows 
that the proposed heuristic provides good quality solutions in a reasonable amount of time. The 
proposed heuristic outperforms the traditional branch and bound method as the data size becomes 
large. 
     
Keywords：Capacity planning, TFT-LCD manufacturing, mixed integer linear programming, shadow 
price 
 4
As a result, this research proposes a mixed integer linear programming (MILP) model for 
capacity planning that incorporates the practical characteristics and specific constraints in the 
TFT-LCD manufacturing. Since the Array process is the capacity-constrained bottleneck of the 
TFT-LCD production chain, our model focuses on the single-stage, multi-generation and multi-site 
structure. The objective is to maximize the overall profit that equals to the total revenue minus total 
costs in production, inventory and expansion. We also develop a shadow-price based heuristic to find 
a near-optimal solution based on the specific properties of the proposed MILP model. Our 
preliminary computational study shows that the proposed heuristic not only provides good quality 
solutions within a reasonable amount of time but also outperforms the classic branch and bound 
method regardless of the solution quality and computational time as the data size becomes large. 
 
2. Multi-Site Capacity Planning Model 
A mixed integer linear programming model of the single-stage, multi-generation and multiple-site 
capacity planning is formulated as follows. This model considers unique characteristics and practical 
constraints of the TFT-LCD manufacturing such as limitation of available global capacities of each site, 
product-group-specific capacity constraint, potential expansion capability and the balance between release and 
output production quantities, among others. 
The indices, input parameters and decision variables of the capacity planning model are defined as 
follows. 
Indices 
p = index for product group( ,...,Pp 1 ) 
f = index for production site( 1,...,f F ) 
t = index for time period( Tt ,...,1 ) 
Parameters 
 Demand related Parameters 
ptd = the demand of product group p in period t (pieces) 
ptsp = the price of product group p in period t ($/piece) 
ptlf = the estimated phased-out time of product group p 
 Supply related Parameters 
ftc = the global capacity of site f in period t (sheets) 
fptca = the product-group-specific capacity of product group p at site f in period t (sheets) 
 
( fptca  is smaller and equal to ftc  since the number of auxiliary tools cannot exceed the number of 
bottleneck machines) 
fpcr = the capacity consumption rate of product group p at site f (sheets/sheet)  
fcl = the consumed capacity for changing different product group at site f (sheets) 
fptct = the upper bound of expansion capacity quantity for product group p at site f in period t (sheets) 
fpea = the potential expansion capability for product group p at site f  
 6
   min , 11
1
pt fpt
t f p
fpt fpt fp fpt
t f p t f p
p
fpt f fpt fpt
t f p t f p p
sp S
vc X ic I
T tlf t
Y lc RET ec
tlf t

   
                      

 
  
 
(1)
The objective function is formulated to maximize the total profit. The total profit equals to the total 
revenue minus total costs. Total costs involve total production variable costs, total inventory holding costs, 
total capacity loss costs and total apportioned expansion costs. The total apportioned expansion costs are 
calculated by a linear depreciation method.  
 
Constraints 
 Release and Output Production Balance Constraint 
,fpt fp fpt fptX up ye CX  f p, t          (2)
Constraint Eq. (2) indicates the release and output production balance constraint. The output production 
quantities are equal to release production quantities multiplied by the economic cutting ratio and yield rate.  
 Inventory Balance Constraint 
( 1) ,fp t fpt fpt fptI CX S I f p, t           (3)
 Demand Satisfaction Constraint 
fpt pt
f
S d p, t       (4)
 Constraint Eq. (3) is an inventory balance equation of each product group at each site in each period. 
Inventory quantities in current period t are calculated by the inventory quantities in last period t-1, output 
production quantities in current period t and sale quantities in current period t. Constraint Eq. (4) indicates that 
total sale quantities of all sites must not exceed the forecasted demand quantities to be produced in current 
period t.  
 Global Capacity Constraint 
 (( ) 1) ,fp fpt ft fpt f
p p
cr X c Y cl f t            (5)
,fpt fptX M Y f p, t         (6)
 Constraint Eq. (5) shows that required capacities of all product groups must be equal or less than 
available global capacities of each site minus loss capacities caused by changeover among different product 
groups. In addition, since each product group has different consumption rates for global capacities, required 
capacities of a product group are equal to the release production quantities multiplied by its capacity 
consumption rate. Constraint Eq. (6) determines whether a particular site f is assigned to produce a product 
group p in period t or not. Notice that M in constraint (6) is a large value, for instance, total demands for all 
 8
3. Shadow-price based heuristic 
This study shows how a shadow-price based heuristic is developed to find the near-optimal 
solution because of computational complexity of the proposed capacity planning model which 
involves continuous, binary and integer variables. This capacity planning model has the following 
two special properties: (1) capacity expansion variables are located on right-hand-side of the 
product-group-specific capacity constraint; and (2) the product-group-specific capacity constraint is a 
connector between capacity allocation and expansion problems. Based on these properties, the 
developed heuristic uses shadow-price (post-optimization) to decompose the capacity planning 
model into two iterative phases shown in Figure 2: the capacity allocation phase and capacity 
expansion phase.   
Initially, the capacity allocation phase only considers available product-group-specific capacity at 
each site to determine product mixes and production quantities without requiring decisions on 
capacity expansion. Since the capacity allocation phase is a complicated MILP problem with 
continuous and binary variables, we combine genetic algorithm and linear programming method 
(called GA-LP method) to solve it. GA-LP method not only determines best product mixes and 
production quantities but also generates shadow price information (equals to dual variables) of all 
product-group-specific capacity constraints which is critical inputs of capacity expansion phase. 
According to the useful shadow price information, the capacity expansion phase recommends that 
the capacities of a particular product group need to be expanded at a certain site during a given 
period. Once we have expanded the capacity of a particular product group at a certain site in a given 
period, the right-hand-side value of the certain product-group-specific capacity constraint (7) will be 
increased and the capacity allocation phase must be resolved again. These two phases continually 
execute each other until the termination condition, in which no further capacity is worth expanding, 
is satisfied. 
 
Figure 2. The iterative algorithm of shadow-price based heuristic 
 
4. Computational study 
There are three purposes for computational studies in this paper. First, to test and compare 
performances of the developed shadow-price based heuristic with the traditional branch-and-bound 
(B&B) algorithm which is frequently used to solve the MILP capacity planning model. The second 
 10
next-largest and two-largest selection. The average solution gaps among five different shadow-price 
selection rules exhibit two interesting insights. One is the largest selection adopted by the 
shadow-price based heuristic is the best among five selection rules since this selection rule 
guarantees to provide best improvements in each iteration. The largest shadow-price rule 
substantially outperforms the smallest and random rules. The smallest selection is the worst since 
this rule always chooses the expansion solutions with the least improvement. The other is the 
next-largest and two-largest selection rules can also derive better solution gaps though they are still 
worse than the largest rule. Since the two-largest selection simultaneously considers the largest and 
second largest values to expand two kinds of capacities every time, it not only outperforms the 
next-largest selection but also is quicker to converge than other selections. Although the two-largest 
selection spends little shorter time than the largest rule, the largest selection can provide the best 
solution gap. If decision makers need to quickly find a better solution, they can adopt the two-largest 
selection. If decision makers are concerned more about the solution quality, the largest rule is a better 
choice. 
C. Sensitivity analysis under different demand and price levels 
In this experiment, we take a particular data sample (3, 3, 6), problem # 3, as a base case to test 
the robustness of the proposed shadow-price based heuristic under different demand and price levels. 
Each demand and price scenario varies from 50% to 150% of original values of the base case. Then 
the total profit change, average solution gap, B&B CPU time and average CPU time of the 
shadow-price based heuristic are obtained and calculated. 
The results of different demand levels show two interesting facts. One is the shadow-price based 
heuristic provides the near-optimal solutions for different demand levels since the average solution 
gaps of all scenarios are smaller than 0.5% (< 0.5%). The other is the average CPU times of the 
shadow-price based heuristic are very close and have no significant difference among all demand 
levels. But the CPU times of the B&B algorithm spends more time as the demand gradually becomes 
larger (e.g., 130% of demand levels needs 472s, 140% of demand levels needs 2086s, 150% of 
demand levels needs 6838s etc.). The reason of this result is that the B&B algorithm must spend 
more time to search the optimal solution while the demand is highly greater than the capacity and the 
expanded capacity quantities has achieved the upper bound. 
For the price variations, the results indicate the shadow-price based heuristic still derives the 
near-optimal solutions (the average solution gap is smaller and equal to 0.51% (  0.51%)) under 
different price levels. Moreover, the average CPU times of the shadow-price based heuristic are also 
very close and have no significant difference among all price scenarios. Therefore, from above two 
experiments, the proposed shadow-price based heuristic is not only efficiency but also robustness to 
different demand and price levels. 
 
5. Conclusion 
In this research, we have presented a capacity planning model for the TFT-LCD production chain. 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                   日期： 100 年 10 月 15 日 
一、參加會議經過 
此會議為吉林大學與中國大陸工業工程學會所主辦的 IEEE 第 18 屆國際工業工程與
工程管理國際型研討會，其主辦場地在中國大陸長春的國際會展中心酒店。參與此會議
之台灣學者共包含清華大學、雲林科技大學、高雄應用科技大學、輔仁大學、逢甲大學、
東海大學與中華大學的教授們。該研討會於 2011 年共收到 500 多篇投稿稿件，經過
double-blind review 的審核後錄取 493 篇稿件, 而所錄取稿件被分別安排於 8 場 Session
中發表，此外還邀請了許多來自美國、香港、中國與台灣專家學者進行主題式的專題演
講。其會議過程共為期 3 天，會議過程如下: 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2218-E-030-001 
計畫名稱 TFT-LCD 生產鏈產能規劃問題之探討(I) 
出國人員
姓名 陳子立 
服務機構
及職稱 
輔仁大學資訊管理系所  
助理教授 
會議時間 100 年 9 月 2 日至100 年 9 月 5 日 會議地點 中國大陸 長春 
會議名稱 
(中文) IEEE 第 18 屆國際工業工程與工程管理研討會 
(英文) IEEE The 18th International Conference on Industrial Engineering 
and Engineering Management 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)建立 TFT-LCD 產業多廠區產能規劃問題之隨機動態規劃模式 
(英文) A Stochastic Dynamic Programming Model for Multi-Site 
Capacity Planning in TFT-LCD industry 
 3
速動車等交通措施，雖然長春位在中國大陸的東北方，地處偏遠，但是中國政府仍
然積極的建立該地區使其成為發達的城市。因此中國大陸的快速進步與發展以及其
人才充裕，未來一定會成為我們的競爭對手，所以我們必須要好好思考我們未來的
定位以及如何提升我們的能力。另外會議過程中也與吉林大學的研究生彼此交談，
發現新一代的大陸學生所用的語言表達以及所了解知識已經與我們新一代的學生沒
有太大的差異，如此也可以顯示中國大陸與我們之間的差異是越來越小，我們應該
要思考如何更具有競爭力。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
 無。 
 
四、建議 
 除了建議國內未來可以多舉辦大型的國際研討會來學習國際學術研究的趨勢與內
容外，也建議可多參與由中國大陸所舉辦的國際研討會，如此不僅可以認識中國大
陸大學的老師學者，還可以瞭解中國大陸在相關領域學術研究的方向與成果以及其
與業界之間的產學合作關係。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 研討會論文集光碟一份。 
 
 
 
A Stochastic Dynamic Programming Model for Multi-Site 
Capacity Planning in TFT-LCD industry 
 
 
James T. Lin1, Tzu-Li Chen2* 
1Department of Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management, National Tsing-Hua University, 
Hsinchu 300, Taiwan, ROC 
2Department of Information Management, Fu Jen Catholic University, New Taipei City 24205, Taiwan, 
ROC 
(*Corresponding author. Email: chentzuli@gmail.com) 
 
Abstract - This research focuses on the multi-site capacity planning problem in TFT-LCD industry 
under stochastic demand. TFT-LCD industry becomes a critical industry in Taiwan and has the following 
characteristics: (1) complex product hierarchy and product types; (2) coexistence of multi-generation 
manufacturing technologies in the multi-site production system; (3) rapid changing and stochastic 
markovian demand. In this complicated environment, the capacity planning which balances demand and 
supply is encountered by TFT-LCD industry. It is to simultaneously make a robust capacity allocation plan 
and capacity expansion policy across multiple sites against stochastic demand. In addition, for the 
TFT-LCD manufacturing, the demand situation follows Markov properties in which the correlations of the 
demand variations in the consecutive periods are high and the demand status in next period is stochastically 
determined by the present one. In this regard, two-stage stochastic programming traditionally neglects 
dynamic capacity adjustments in response to new available demand information. Therefore, this study 
constructs a stochastic dynamic programming (SDP) model which considers many TFT-LCD practical 
characteristics and constraints to generate a dynamic capacity planning policy as the demand in each period 
is revealed and updated. In the end, a numerical example is illustrated to prove the feasibility of the 
proposed model.  
 
Keywords - TFT-LCD manufacturing, multi-site capacity planning, stochastic dynamic programming 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳子立 計畫編號：99-2218-E-030-001- 
計畫名稱：TFT-LCD 生產鏈產能規劃問題之探討(I) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：
如數個計畫共同
成果、成果列為
該期刊之封面故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100% 
該篇文章已經被期
刊’’’’Applied 
Mathematical 
Modelling’’’’
所接受 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
