A pattern-oriented design agent  
 
Chiung-Hui Chen 
dept. Media and Design 
Asia University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
7451616@gmail.com 
 
 
Abstract—This research adopts “A Pattern Language” as a basis, 
proposed by Christopher Alexander, an architectural theorist 
who thinks a designer can extend more design patterns if he can 
pass on the developed design knowledge and accumulate the 
results. On the other hand, the Agent-Oriented Design is a new 
generation method of programming design that mainly uses the 
script language as a basis for development and that is suitable to 
design the multi-agent application system. Based on the above 
research background, each “spatial object” in the space defined 
in this research is called “agent”, and the so-called “pattern” 
refers to “a feasible way of assembly among agents of spatial 
objects”. A pattern can be regarded as the one similar to “the 
concept of script function”. Supposing each agent of spatial 
object can have its own behavioral mechanism, “coordinative 
agents” responsible for coordinative function of behavior need to 
be added if excellent coordination is required for action 
dependencies among the agents when a script function is 
executed; that is, to complete a “design goal”. Therefore, the 
purpose of this research is to propose “a communicative and 
coordinative mechanism of agents of spatial objects” by 
establishing this pattern-oriented design agent. 
Agent; script; coordination; pattern 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
 A Pattern Language was proposed by Christopher 
Alexander [1], an architectural theorist. Its main concept is to 
help beginners learn the design through an inducible and 
systematic approach. This architectural pattern language can 
assist people, from inexperienced architects to ordinary people, 
to conduct the environmental design with systematic 
approaches. The author hopes that a venue is generated through 
the livers’ living incidents or discussions of experiences to sort 
out some generative principles of space, and then, these 
principles related with spatial quality are organized and 
induced into individual unit pattern. These individual patterns 
are interrelated and weave into a whole network of system. 
They coordinate with one another and form a way of spatial 
organization generated by life, to provide us some principles 
and approaches to operations in the good quality of space. 
The same stance is held in this research; that is, more 
design patterns can be extended if designers can pass on the 
developed knowledge and accumulate results, yet, the research 
method in this research is different because the real world 
keeps developing and changing with time, and an object 
changes when an incident occurs at a certain point in time, and 
the occurrence of the incident makes the object have spatial 
change or change in property [7]. Furthermore, new methods, 
new tools, and new media are also constantly updated. And, in 
recent years, professional designers tend to employ control and 
simulation of programs, and to communicate information 
through the Internet. Digital computing tools have apparently 
become the indispensable ones in the development process of 
architecture and urban design. Therefore, it has become one of 
the research points in contemporary computer auxiliary design 
to create a spatial pattern of good quality, to effectively 
organize the space and the property, and to effectively arrange 
and record knowledge which are then made public on the 
Internet platform for sharing so that it can be effectively reused. 
It still needs to be further explored and studied. 
On the other hand, the agent theory and technology is 
currently an important research issue in artificial intelligence. 
The Agent-Oriented Design (AOD) is a new generation 
method of programming design that mainly uses the script 
language as a basis for development, and that is suitable for the 
design of multi-agent application system. In order to explore 
the relationships between the design pattern and the agent 
model, this research has developed an interactive agent model 
with the “design pattern” as an orientation to express the 
interaction of each individual with the multiagent-based model. 
The preliminary research adopts the way of the script language 
to describe the agent behavior, converting a design atlas into an 
interactive agent pattern; that is, to construct the mechanism 
and behavior of heterogeneous agents. In Figure 1, three facets 
are structured as the core of the research. They are the design 
pattern, the agent-oriented script design, and the good venue. 
And the pattern oriented design agent (PDA) of spatial objects 
is the joining point for them and is the main point in this 
research. 
 
Figure 1.  A conceptual architecture of the  Pattern oriented Design Agent 
Design 
pattern 
Agent oriented 
script 
Good 
 venue 
Pattern oriented 
Design Agent 
( PDA) 
 
c) Classes and properties of design pattern library: There 
are few rules for the pattern library. Among the patterns, 
complicated rules and relationships are not needed.  Patterns 
can be kept adding. 
d) Script editing interface: Including Upload and Download, 
any user can fragment the original pattern to adjust and modify 
the task, to add or delete the existing design pattern, and to re-
upload it for sharing as long as he or she registers and logs in. 
 
III. RESEARCH PROCESS AND METHODS 
Based on the purpose of this research, the following are the 
illustration of the systematic content conducted in this research. 
A. Scriptize the Pattern of a Good Venue: Library of Script-
Based Design Pattern for Agents of Spatial Objects 
The “pattern” defined in this research refers to “a feasible 
way of assembly among agents of spatial objects”. By 
categorizing the environmental objects according to the 
property and characteristics, the complexity and diversity of 
both objects and incidents can be simplified. Three analyses on 
patterns of good venues observed in the urban space are 
enumerated below. 
a) Crowd collection: the locations where pedestrians halt 
and the routes of pedestrians, it was found that every location 
has its own attraction for its unique surrounding environments 
and furniture. Take A from Figure 2 for example, it is easier for 
shops with outdoor coffee tables and seats to attract pedestrians 
and form a stationary point.  
b) The location and distance of furniture which attract 
pedestrians’ attention: take B from Figure 2 for example, 
fountains can easily become objects which attract pedestrians’ 
attention, or visual focuses. Therefore, elements such as the 
relationship between fountains and street environments, the 
distance at which the pedestrians who are attracted stand, size 
and location of the fountains as well as the possibility of 
attracting people and diverting crowds all affect the attraction 
of fountains in street space. 
c) Dynamic activities: A and C in Fig. 2 are taken as 
examples here. Their similarity is the business behaviors and 
performances which often take place on the sidewalks in front 
of the shops, and this generates crowds. 
According to the way proposed by Minsky [8], if each 
agent has its own ratiocination mechanism, then they can 
communicate with one another and cooperate together to 
accomplish the mutual task. Based on this, each "spatial 
object” in the space is defined as the “agent”, and “a library of 
script-based pattern for agents of spatial object” is established 
according to the following three viewpoints, Figure 3.   
• A “design pattern” can be regarded as a similar 
“concept of script function”. 
• A “design pattern” contains many kinds of “spatial 
objects”, each of which is regarded as an “agent”. 
Consequently, a design pattern contains many agents, 
each of which has its function and property. 
• When a script function is carried out, it means a goal to 
be completed. Therefore, the action dependency of 
each agent of the object with one another needs to 
increase coordinative agents to take responsibility for 
the behavioral function of coordination if a good 
coordination is desired to be generated. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Library of script-based pattern for agents of spatial objects 
B. The sound of the fountain 
 
C. Performances on the sidewalks in front of the shops
 
Figure 2. Good venues in the urban space 
A. Outdoor seats in front of shops 
environment. Hence, the main “function” of “Lamp-Agent” is 
responsible to adjust different illumination in resting areas as 
well as the configuration of lighting equipment of different 
heights. And the “coordinative agent” must coordinate other 
agents. For example, if a venue for 10 people to gather, to sit 
down, to chat, and to observe the street scenery is decided, then 
“Pavement-Agent” must be coordinated to complete the 
planning requirements for the properties including the shape, 
area, and color. On the other hand, “Seat-Agent” must also be 
coordinated to adjust suitable combination positions and 
quantities to complete the goal together, see Figure 4. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Diagram of the coordinative script 
IV. CONCLUSION AND SUBSEQUENT STUDY 
However, in the process of the above coordinative script, it 
is suggested in this research that the following four items must 
be clearly defined. 
• Use the agent pattern to establish the representative 
objects; that is, to let the spatial objects have 
substitutes. 
• Let the representative objects control the interaction 
between a certain spatial object and the environment. 
The ways of communication and control of relevant 
agents of spatial objects must be simplified. 
• Each independent agent of spatial object must notify 
the coordinative agent when its own status changes. 
• Each independent agent of spatial object must respond 
to the request issued by the coordinative agent. 
The script-based design pattern proposed in this research 
can be applied to other design fields in the future. It can assist 
designers to evaluate and analyze the interactive relations of 
space and environments beforehand. And the coordinative 
mechanism of the agent inside the pattern library can be as a 
reference for subsequent relevant academic researches on the 
development of computer auxiliary design, which is an 
emerging technology, in the field of architectural surroundings.  
On the other hand, the subsequent Internet platform of 
pattern library which has the benefits of knowledge sharing and 
co-production is constructed on an Open Source Framework in 
which everyone's knowledge is gathered to become a large 
pattern library. Meanwhile, any pattern created by anyone can 
be uploaded and put into this pattern library. Therefore, while 
people are exchanging the viewpoints about the environments 
and exchanging the patterns, all the contents of patterns stored 
in the pattern library will keep changing. Gradually, with 
people's editing, modification, addition, deletion and so on, the 
shared pattern library will automatically evolve. Hence, 
• The emphasis level of pattern design concept can be 
enhanced. 
• The emphasis level of open source of script can be 
enhanced. 
• When Internet groups (designers) provide or download 
the script source for design, they can let other groups 
understand the interoperability among the patterns.   
ACKNOWLEDGMENT  
This study is supported by the Taiwan National Science 
Council, grant-NSC-98-2221-E-468-016. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Alexander, C., Sara, I., & Murray, S., A Pattern Language. New York: 
Oxford University Press, 1977. 
[2] Ferber, J., Multi-agent systems：An introduction to distributed artificial 
intelligence. New York: Addison-Wesley, 1999. 
[3] John K. Ousterhout., Scripting: Higher-Level Programming for the 21st 
Century, IEEE Computer, 1998.  
[4] Joey, L., Darron, S., & Keith, P., ActionScript 3.0 Cookbook: Solutions 
for Flash Platform and Flex Application Developers. Milpitas, CA: 
O'Reilly Media, 2007. 
[5] LaBelle, G, Nembrini, J, Huang, J., Programming framework for 
architectural design ANAR+: Object oriented geometry in Proceedings 
of the 12th International CAAD Futures Conference. Winner of Best 
Presentation Award, 2009.  
[6] Minsky, M., The society of mind. New York: Touchstone, 1985. 
[7] Minsky, M., Commonsense-based interfaces. Communications of the 
ACM, Vol.43 No.8, pp 67-73, 2000. 
[8] Minsky, M., The Emotion Machine: Commonsense Thinking, Artificial 
Intelligence, and the Future of the Human Mind. New York: Simon, 
2006. 
[9] Shoham, Y., Agent-oriented programming, Artificial Intelligence, Vol 
60 No.1, pp 51-92, 1993. 
[10] Tracy, L., A community learns design: towards a pattern language for 
novice visual programmers, In Proceedings of the IEEE 2002 Symposia 
on Human Centric Computing Languages and Environments, 2002. 
[11] Wooldridge, M. & Jennings, N. R., Intelligent agents: Theory and 
practice. The Knowledge Engineering Review, Vol 10 No.2, pp 115-152, 
1995. 
[12] Wooldridge, M., Jennings, N. R., & Kinny, D., A methodology for 
agent-oriented analysis and design, In Proceeding of the Third 
International Conference on Autonomous Agents, Seattle, 1999. 
[13] Wooldridge, M. J., An introduction to multi-agent systems. Chichester: 
John Wiley & Sons, 2002. 
 
 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99年 7月 29日 
一、 參加會議經過 
今年第 40 屆電腦與工業工程國際研討會（The 40th International Conference on 
Computers and Industrial Engineering，CIE40）會議在日本淡路島舉行，本次會議為期四
天，主要由國際知名的 Computers & Industrial Engineering國際期刊社所贊助，並輪流由
國際知名大學主辦，本屆由 Kobe Gakuin University主辦，地點是淡路夢舞台國際會議中
心（Awaji Yumebutai International Conference Center），本屆會議出席人員計有來自美國、
加拿大、英國、瑞典、法國、德國、比利時、荷蘭、義大利、台灣、日本、韓國、新加
坡、馬來西亞、泰國、中國大陸、印度等 28 國近 250 位學術界精英及專家學者，其中
有許多是資訊科技、人工智慧應用、模糊理論等領域之國際性知名學術期刊的編輯、論
文審查委員。本人獲邀發表學術論文乙篇（中文：設計模式為導向之互動代理者模型建
構之研究；英文：A pattern-oriented design agent）。本篇論文是發表在會議的 General 
Session, Session 主題為 Artificial Intelligence & Expert Systems，此 Session 共計 3篇論
計畫編號 NSC 98－2221－E－468－016 
計畫名稱 PDA：設計模式為導向之互動代理者模型建構之研究 
出國人員
姓名 陳瓊蕙 
服務機構
及職稱 
亞洲大學數位媒體設計學系 
助理教授 
會議時間 
99年 7月 25至 
99年 7月 28日 會議地點 日本淡路島 Awaji Island, Japan 
會議名稱 
(中文)第 40屆電腦與工業工程國際研討會 
(英文) The 40th International Conference on Computers and Industrial Engineering (CIE40) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)設計模式為導向之互動代理者模型建構之研究 
(英文) A pattern-oriented design agent 
 3
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
此次攜回資料： 
y 研討會議程手冊。 
y 全部獲邀發表的論文集光碟( EI , IEEE Xplore  ISBN: 978-1-4244-7296-3 )。 
 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳瓊蕙 計畫編號：98-2221-E-468-016- 
計畫名稱：PDA：設計模式為導向之互動代理者模型建構之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
