 
 
1. Introduction 
 
Flexible electronics such as a flexible display panel has long been a 
field of research interest.  By the same time, since the discovery of carbon 
nanotubes (CNTs),[1] various potential applications have been developed due 
to their unique physicochemical properties.[2-6]  Among them, the 
application of carbon nanotubes to flexible electronics such as a 
field-emission device is of great concern and attracts great research interests.  
Recently, CNTs transferred onto flexible and transparent polymer substrates 
to make field effect transistors (FETs) or field emitters had been 
demonstrated.[7-9]  However, the weak interlayer bonding between CNTs 
and polymer is still a big problem.  A traditional way of enhancing the 
bonding is by using some kind of solder, such as conductive adhesive silver 
epoxy or binder polymer which requires a post curing treatment generally at 
a temperature higher than the glass transition temperature (Tg) of the 
flexible polymer substrate.  
    In this work, we present a method for transferring vertical aligned 
CNTs grown on periodically semi-spherical shell arrays onto polymer films 
without any need of solder.  By using microwave irradiation, the CNTs 
were heated rapidly and piercing into the polymer films.[10,11]  The 
semi-spherical arrays were formed by using self-assemble polystyrene 
nanospheres as a base layer and then covered with metallic shell after sputter 
deposited.  The influence of the CNT grown on the regularly fluctuated 
shell upon field emission properties was investigated. 
 
2. Experimental processes 
 
For growing two dimensional array of aligned CNT, a polystyrene 
monolayer array was first formed on a 10 x 10 mm2 p-type Si (100) wafers.  
The Si substrate was cleaned with deionized water in ultrasonic bath for 10 
min and then hydrophilic treated. The solution for hydrophilic treatment was 
made of 500 ml deionized water, 100 ml of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2, 26%) 
and 100 ml of ammonia (NH4OH, 38%).  The hydrophilic treatment was 
done at 70 oC for 45 min.  10 wt% solutions of polystyrene nanospheres of 
280 nm and 500 nm diameter (Microparticales GmbH, Germany) was mixed 
with methanol at a ratio of 1 : 1.  A drop of the PS nanospheres suspended 
in water/methanol solution was applied on the hydrophilic treated Si wafer 
The height of remained shell is about 350 µm which is about equal to 
the sum of the radius of nanosphere and the thickness of metallic multilayer. 
It indicates that the metallic multilayer deposited by sputtering method could 
cover only the upper portion of the nanospheres.  As the high temperature 
of growing process caused the evaporation of the PS nanospheres, there is 
nothing left between Si substrate and the semi-spherical metallic shells.  
Due to poor adhesion between the metallic shell and the Si substrate, some 
parts of the grown film were bulged up. 
Figure 3. is a scheme of the CNT film transferred onto PC substrates by 
using microwave heating process.  Heating materials by microwave 
irradiation is unique in that the heating is very selective and localized.  
When CNTs and thermoplastic polymers such as PC, PET, etc. are 
microwave irradiated together for a few seconds, the temperature of the 
CNTs will increased drastically while the thermoplastic polymers is almost 
unaffected.  The hot CNTs pierce the thermoplastic polymers just like a hot 
steel wire piercing a super-cooled big chunk of ice.  When the local melt 
part of the ice refrozen, it holds the steel wire firmly.  After the CNTs fixed 
to the PC film, the Si wafer could be removed by tweezers.  As shown in 
figure 4, the semi-spherical metallic shells are upside down and looked like 
two dimensional close-packed bowls.  Those continuous metallic shells 
covered on the transplanted CNT film could be easily removed by a clear 
tape. 
The field emission properties of the primary CNT film grown on Si 
substrate and the CNT film transplanted onto PC without covered metallic 
shells were measured.  The field emission property of the CNT film grown 
on metallic semi-spherical shells was measured under 1 x 10-6 Torr.  The 
turn-on field is about 2.0 V/µm and the emission current is 0.3 mA/cm2 with 
the applied electrical field of 3.3 V/µm (Fig. 5).  Due to the poor adhesion 
between the CNT film and the Si substrate, fragments of the CNT film were 
lift off from the Si substrate and attached to the anodic ITO glass when the 
applied electrical field was higher than 2.5 V/µm.  
The turn-on field of the transferred vertically aligned CNT film without 
covered metallic shells is about 1.5 V/µm and the emission current is 1.2 
mA/cm2 with an applied electrical field of 2.5 V/µm (Fig. 6).  The profile 
of emission current-applied field (J-E) curve is smoother than the primary 
CNT film.  And no detached CNT was found on the anodic ITO glass after 
field emission measurement.  These are good evidence of the excellent 
adhesion between the CNTs and polymer substrate. 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Illustration of the CNT film transferred onto PC substrates by 
using microwave heating process. 
 
   
Figure 4. SEM images of (a) the CNT film grown on metallic shells 
transferred onto the PC substrate and (b) the metallic shells removed by a 
clear tape. 
 
 
 Si
Polymer
Polymer 
CNT
CNT
 MW
(a) 
(b) 
Reference 
 
1.  S. Iijima, Nature (1991) 354, 56 
2.  W. A. de Heer, A. Chatelain, and D. Ugarte, Science (1995) 270, 1179 
3.  I. Yakobson and R. E. Smalley, Am. Sci. (1997) 85, 324  
4.  T. W. Ebbesen, Carbon Nanotubes 
5.  M. M. J. Treacy, T. W. Ebbesen, J. M. Gibson, Nature (1996) 381, 678 
6.  E. W. Wong, P. E. Sheehan, C. M. Lieber, Science (1997) 277, 1971  
7.  Y. J. Jung, S. Kar, S. Talapatra, C. Soldano, G. Viswanathan, X. S. Li, Z. 
L. Yao, F. S. Ou, A. Avadhanula, R. Vajtai, S. Curran, O. Nalamasu, and 
P. M. Ajayan, Nano Letters (2006) 3, 413 
8.  Q. Cao, Z. T. Zhu, M. G. Lemaitre, M. G. Xia, M. Shim, and J. A. 
Rogers, Appl. Phys. Lett. (2006) 88, 113511 
9.  Yangxin Zhou, Liangbing Hu, and George Gruner, Appl. Phys. Lett. 
(2006) 88, 123109 
10.  C. Y. Wang, T. H. Chen, S. C. Chang, T. S. Chen, and S. Y. Cheng, 
Appl. Phys. Lett. (2007) 90, 103111 
11.  C. Y. Wang, T. H. Chen, S. C. Chang, S. Y. Cheng, and T. S. Chen, Adv. 
Funct. Mater. (2007) 17, 1979 
表 Y04 1
2007 材料科學與技術國際會議報告 
 
清華大學教授  張   士   欽 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
    材料科學與技術國際會議是美國 TMS 礦冶、金屬、材料學會與鋼鐵學會每
年舉辦的最重要的國際學術會議之一。今年共有歐美日中等世界各國一千五百
多位學者參加，在九十多個議程中發表一千多篇最新的研究成果。並同時有百
餘家的相關廠商及研究機構，在材料展示會展示其最新的商品及成果。 
  本人得到國科會計畫與清華大學的補助於 9 月 4 日赴美，先經洛杉磯隨本
系的參訪團參訪了美國加州州立大學長堤分校，加州大學洛杉磯及聖塔巴巴拉
分校，9月 7 日到舊金山以一週的時間參訪了 Innomedia 等公司，9 月 16 日到
達底特律，即到會場辦理註冊，領取資料。我主要參加的奈米技術：奈米材料
應用於電子領域研討會共有兩天三個場次，我的論文發表是排在 20 日星期四上
午的第三個場次，因此，我就先到其他與個人研究與教學有關的場次聽講。 
    在非晶質金屬：合成，檢定，相穩定會議中，聽了火花電漿燒結鐵基結構
非晶質金屬的邀請演講，和講員 Prof. Graeve 討論了晶粒與顆粒大小間的關
係。又參加了奈米技術：奈米材料力學與微/奈米元件實驗與模型領域研討會，
聽了不少新的奈米機械性質測試方面的新資訊，對未來個人研究與教學都有相
