were set to 37°C. Note that the heating power was 
uniformly and completely absorbed in tissue in the 
simulation. 
The spatial and temporal behavior of the 
electromagnetic field within the heated tissues is 
governed by the Maxwell’s equations. Assuming a 
quasi-static electrical conduction model, we can 
solve the electric field by using Laplace’s equation 
as follows: 
 ( )[ ] 0=∇⋅∇ VTσ                       (2) 
 
where ∇ is the gradient operator, ( )Tσ  is the 
temperature-dependent conductivity, and V is the 
electric potential (i.e., Volts). 
Equation (1) can be solved using a variety of 
methods including exact and numerical 
approximation approaches [6-9].  Ocheltree and 
Frizzell showed that the analytical solutions of the 
Pennes bioheat transfer equation in three different 
tumor models that include an infinite half-space 
model, an infinite cylindrical model, and a spherical 
model for localized hyperthermia [6]. They also 
presented the transient analytical solutions of the 
Pennes bioheat transfer equation in power deposition 
patterns for infinite half-space and spherical models 
[7]. Gao et al. solved the Pennes bioheat transfer 
equation by using a time-dependent Green’s function 
and Fourier transform techniques [8]. They claimed 
that the primary advantage of Green’s function 
approach is to provide opportunities for deriving 
analytical solutions. They also used the formulation 
of a perturbation theory to deal with the complicated 
blood perfusion term changed with the space and 
temporal. In addition, Wren et al. proposed a hybrid 
equation, a combination of the bioheat equation of 
Pennes and the effective conductivity equation, and 
solved it by using the finite element method [9]. 
Using the thermal equilibration length concept, they 
divided the vessels into three groups containing 
small vessels (<200 μm in diameter), intermediate 
vessels (200 μm-400 μm), and large vessels (several 
centimeters). Because the different vessel size of 
tissue has its thermal characteristics, the 
Weinbaum-Jiji equation could be used for the tissue 
whose vessels up to ~ 300 μm in diameter and the 
Pennes’ equation is valid for describing the tissue 
whose vessel diameter equal to or above 300 μm. 
Notes that the blood perfusion in hepatic tissue is 
0.0064 l/s[10]. 
 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
 
 Figure 1 demonstrates the maximum 
temperature within the tumor changes for the six 
different blood perfusion rate cases. Due to the high 
heating power (i.e., heating power 80 W and heating 
duration 10 s), the blood perfusion does not 
significantly affect on the maximum temperature. 
On the other hand, the temperature in the central 
point of the heated volume is almost independent of 
the blood perfusion for rapid heating. 
 
Figure 1 Transient temperature profiles for different 
blood perfusion rates (a) 1.47 kg/m3s (b)5.69 kg/m3s, 
for the heating power 80W and the heating duration 
time 60s. 
 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
For the rapid heating the temperature has a 
little influence by the blood perfusion rate. This is 
because that the cooling effect of blood flow needs 
the response of time. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
  This work was supported in part by the 
National Science Council of Taiwan for this research 
under Contract No. NSC96-2221-E-039-011, and the 
China Medical University Hospital Project No. 
DMR-96-056. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Schutt D.J., and Haemmerich D., “Effects of 
Variation in Perfusion rates and of Perfusion Models 
in Computational Models of Radio Frequency 
Tumor Ablation,” Medical Physics, vol. 38, 
pp.3462-3470, 2008. 
[2] Chang I. A., “Finite Element Analysis of Hepatic 
Raiofrequency Ablation Probes using 
Temperature-Dependent Electrical Conductivity,” 
BioMedical Engineering OnLine, 2: 12, 2003. 
[3] Goldberg S.N., “Radiofrequency tumor ablation: 
principles and techniques,” European Journal of 
Ultrasound, vol. 13, pp.129-147, 2001. 
[4] Sutherland L.M., Williams J.A.R., Padbury 
R.T.A., Gotley D.C., Stokes B., and Madddern G.J., 
“Radiofrequency Ablation of Liver Tumors, 
“ Archives of Surgery, vol. 141, pp.181-190, 2006. 
[5] Pennes H. H., “Analysis of tissue and arterial 
blood temperatures in the resting human forearm,” 
