 I
摘要 
由於低維度-奈米材料具有特殊的物理性質與應用於微電子與光電元件之前瞻性，因此近年
來引起廣泛的研究興趣。於奈米材料中，量子點結構是尺寸大小的極致表現，其擁有最強
量子效應，可應用於許多領域，如發光二極體、太陽能電池及IC元件設計。這三年期計畫
的研究方向主要分為： 
(1) 利用電漿輔助分子束磊晶系統，以中斷成長法在Si (111)基板上成長氮化鋁緩衝層
並對其結構與性質作探討。中斷成長法可改善氮化鋁緩衝層的表面平整度並且避免了鋁液
滴的產生。然而，由於有效的應力釋放與ES barrier效應的影響會使得六角形的氮化鋁島狀
物出現於氮化鋁緩衝層的表面。在氮化鋁島狀物成長過程中由於差排的互相抵消會使得島
狀物內的缺陷密度相對的較少。 
(2) 我們利用離子佈植技術搭配熱退火處理製作立方結構之氮化銦量子點，並研究其
光學行為。並利用XPS技術鑑別氮化銦在退火前後之鍵結行為。而由TEM的證實氮化銦屬
於立方(zinc-blende相)並沒有wurtzite相存在。且在氮化銦量子點與矽母體間有差排的存在。
矽母體提供並限制介穩相之氮化銦成長。此外，隨著退火溫度或時間的增加，量子點尺寸
會隨之增加而密度減小。而此立方結構結構的氮化銦量子點的能隙大約為0.736eV。 
(3)利用分子束磊晶以高五三比成長氮化鋁量子錐並探討其結構與成長機制。氮化鋁量
子錐為單晶結構且崁入pitlike defect中，並由六個{1-211}所構成。此量子錐密度與大小可由
成長條件所控制。其成長機制是由於在成長初期兩相鄰之晶粒由於高應變形成c-type差排
後，使得後續堆疊之表面吸附原子錯排而形成反向極性並相對於機材有較快成長速率之奈
米錐。 
(4)利用分子束磊晶系統於c面之氧化鋁基板上成長高結晶性無差排或其他缺陷的氮化
鎵奈米島嶼。奈米島嶼有別於一般薄膜或奈米柱之成長需要特別的五三比與成長溫度。將
氮化後之金屬鎵層導入結構中可使得奈米島嶼有較均一的形狀與大小。其密度與大小也可
由成長條件所控制。 導電式原子力顯微鏡顯示此表面奈米島嶼相對於薄膜具有較佳之導電
性。其成長機制是由於在成長初期受到應力釋放與Eherlich-Schowebel效應作用所形成。 
(5)利用SEM，TEM與低溫PL量測探討由分子磊晶系統改變成長溫度與氮化鋁緩衝層
的使用製作之氮化鎵奈米柱之成長機制與光學性質。研究發現diffusion-induced機制對於成
長於氮化鋁緩衝層上之氮化鎵奈米柱有很大之影響，氮化鎵奈米柱之密度可由成長溫度與
氮化鎵緩衝層之使用被有效的控制，而且可達到低密度而直徑並不隨之減小之奈米柱。高
品質之氮化鎵奈米柱可應用於高亮度發光二極體之製作。 
(6)最後一個部分主要是討論鐵及矽化鐵量子點的成長及磁性質，鐵及矽化鐵量子點是
利用離子束濺鍍分別在室溫及200oC下成長。兩者的成長皆接續在矽化鐵平臺的形成之後。
然而，鐵及矽化鐵量子點在型貌以及排列上有著極大的差異。室溫成長的鐵量子點無序的
成長再平台上且其尺寸大小不一，反之，200oC成長的矽化鐵量子點具有均勻的尺寸並具有
規則性排列，矽化鐵量子點的窄尺寸分布可歸因於增強的表面擴散力。其自我排列的特性
是來自於平臺的影響以及量子點之間的排斥力所造成。矽化鐵量子點展現異常的磁性質，
我們發現它具有垂直異向性，這是由於表面留有未飽和的鐵原子。此項特殊的磁性可應用
在磁性記憶元件上。 
 III
force microscopy shows that the off-axis sidewall facets are more electrically active than those at 
the island center. The formation of the GaN surface islands is strongly induced by strain 
relaxation and the Eherlich-Schowebel barrier effect of preexisting islands grown in the early 
growth stage. 
(5) The growth and optical properties of GaN nanorods grown by plasma assisted molecular 
beam epitaxy are investigated by means of SEM, TEM and low temperature PL measurement as a 
function of growth temperature and using of AlN buffer. The diffusion-induced mechanism has a 
great impact on enhancing the growth of nanorods on AlN buffer as compared to on bare-Si. The 
GaN nanorod density can be controlled by using AlN buffers and controlling by growth 
temperature. The low density/larger diameter of GaN nanorods were achieved in this study. The 
GaN nanorods might serve as ideal templates for application in the production of light-emitting 
devices. 
(6) The growth and ferromagnetism of self-assembled Fe(Si) nanoislands on Si(001) at the 
deposition temperature of RT and 200oC is studied in detail. The growth proceeded with patches 
of FeSi terraces followed by Fe and FeSi nanoislands on the FeSi terraces at RT and 200 oC, 
respectively. However, the islands exhibit drastic differences in morphology and ordering. 
Whereas the islands grown at RT are randomly distributed in a wide size range, those grown at 
200 oC exhibit uniform size and organized in an order fashion. The narrower size distribution is 
due to the enhanced surface diffusivity. The observed self-ordering is induced by the underlying 
terrace and repulsion between neighboring islands. The FeSi nanoisalnds show unexpected 
magnetic behavior in the out of plane direction caused by the uncompensated iron on the island 
surface. This anomalous property may be applied in magnetic memory devices. 
 2
2. Experimental approaches 
There are six experimental schemes in this three-year project. 
(I) Mechanism for persistent hexagonal island formation in AlN buffer layer during growth 
on Si (111) by plasma-assisted molecular beam epitaxy 
AlN layers were grown on n-type Si (111) substrates by a Veeco/Applied-EPI 930 PAMBE. 
To begin with, the Si (111) substrates were cleaned by the standard chemical cleaning procedure, 
and then dipped into an HF solution before loading into the MBE chamber. Prior to the epitaxy, 
Si (111) 7×7 clean surface was observed at 750oC by heating the substrate at 860oC for 30min. 
The AlN layer was grown at 850oC under an Al-rich condition with the growth interrupted 
method where the Al and N shutters close for 1min after 5min growth at the same growth 
temperature to the AlN thicknesses of 40nm and 180nm. The surface morphologies of the AlN 
layers were analyzed by atomic force microscopy (AFM, Seiko SPA400). The microstructures of 
the AlN layers were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to examine the 
formation mechanism of the persistent hexagonal islands. TEM images were acquired at 200keV 
with a field emission TEM (JEOL 2100F) equipped with a Gatan Imaging Filter (GIF). The 
micro-Raman scattering experiments were carried out at room temperature using a Jobin Yvon 
Labram HR spectrometer in a Z(Y,Y)-Z backscattering geometry with 50mW incident power. A 
100x microscope objective was used to focus the 532nm laser beam onto the sample. 
(II) Structural and optical properties of cubic-InN quantum dots prepared by ion 
implantation in Si (100) substrate 
Silicon (001) wafers with a 10nm thick SiO2 layer were implanted with 130 keV In+ ions 
first, followed by a RTA process at 925°C for 10 seconds, then 30 keV N+ ions, and finally 50 
keV N+ ions at room temperature, followed by further annealing processes. The fluence 
concentrations for the In+ and N+ ions were 5x1018 cm-2 and 1x1016 cm-2, respectively. The 
energies were chosen to maximize the overlap of the implanted concentration distribution of the 
two species. The depth distributions of the two species were confirmed to be identical by SIMS. 
The depths were in the range of 50 to 200 nm under the surface and peaked at about 60nm. After 
implantation, the samples were furnace annealed in NH3 atmosphere at 600oC for 1 hr, 800oC for 
1hr, and 800oC for 10 hrs, respectively. Microstructure of the samples was characterized by 
HRTEM using a JEOL 2100F microscope equipped with a GIF operating at 200 kV. 
Cross-sectional TEM samples were prepared using mechanical polishing followed by Ar+ ion 
milling with the angle of incidence at 3°. XPS was used to determine the chemical bonding of the 
nanocrystals. In addition, the optical properties of the samples were analyzed by PL 
measurements using a 514.5nm Ar+ laser as the excitation light source, and the luminescence was 
detected with an enhanced InGaAs detector. 
(III) Molecular beam epitaxy growth of wurtzite AlN nanotips 
AlN layers were grown on n-type Si (111) substrates by an SVTA plasma-assisted MBE. A 
standard effusion cell for Al and radio frequency gas plasma source system for nitrogen 
molecular beam were used. The AlN layers were grown at 800oC under various V/III ratios for 1 
hour. No nucleation layer was used. The surface morphologies of the AlN layers were analyzed 
by SEM (JEOL 7000F). The microstructures of the AlN layers were characterized by TEM to 
 4
3. Results and discussions 
 
(I) Mechanism for persistent hexagonal island formation in AlN buffer layer during growth 
on Si (111) by plasma-assisted molecular beam epitaxy 
Due to a large lattice mismatch and a large interfacial energy between AlN and Si (111), the 
AlN/Si(111) heteroepitaxial growth would be expected to follow Volmer-Weber (VW) growth 
mode for nucleation and coalescence of 3D islands in the early growth stage17, irrespective of 
Al/N flux ratio used (III/V ratio). The microstructural evolution should include nucleation of 
discrete islands, island growth, island impingement and coalescence. Fig. 1(a) shows an AFM 
image of the AlN layer consisting of coalesced and homogeneously distributed islands for the 
thickness of 40nm with the roughness of 1.85nm. During this period, reflection high-energy 
electron diffraction (RHEED) exhibit a spotty pattern (not shown), consistent with the nature of 
3D islands. As the thickness increased to 180nm, the initial VW islands would undergo grain 
growth with higher lateral growth compared to vertical growth, followed by coalescence of the 
AlN grains to form a continuous film under the Al-rich conditions. The AlN layer exhibited a 2D 
layer by layer growth, as shown in Fig. 1(b) with the roughness reduced to 0.38nm. Notably, 
some pronounced AlN hexagonal surface islands were still persistent on the AlN layer surfaces 
even after other islands had coalesced. From a cross sectional imaging study (shown later in Fig. 
2), the AlN persistent islands appeared as soon as the growth started and the aspect ratio 
increased with increasing growth time, indicating that the characteristics of these persistent 
islands must be distinctive from other nucleated 3D islands leading to the higher growth rate. Fig. 
1(c) and (d) show the size distribution and the shape of the AlN persistent islands from the AFM 
images aligned along [10-10], for the thickness of 40nm and 180nm, respectively. The density of 
the AlN persistent islands is about 107cm-2 throughout the entire growth.  
 
FIG1: AFM images showing the surface morphology of AlN layer of (a) 40nm, and (b) 180nm in thickness with 
corresponding shape distribution of the AlN islands in (c) and (d), respectively, by the interrupted method. 
 6
found to dominate the rough surface of the Si substrate with an average diameter of about 30nm 
(not shown), which is consistent with the step size in Fig. 2 (a). This phenomenon has been 
reported previously18. Fig. 2 (b) shows the elemental maps from the Si/AlN interface by the 
three-window technique with energy-filtered TEM. Fig. 2(b) shows that the AlN and Si have a 
sharp interface, without obvious elemental intermixing. It is also evident that the AlN persistent 
island nucleates on a higher Si terrace. The AlN islands grown on taller Si steps are accompanied 
by a nonzero displacement along the 0002 growth direction, which leads to the formation of the 
persistent islands. The big contrast between the persistent islands and other coalesced islands 
must be related to the Eherlich-Schowebel (ES) barrier effect19,20. During the growth, the mean 
diffusion length of Al adatoms is much higher than the distance between the nucleus of the 
persistent islands and the excess Al adatoms preferentially attach to those islands due to the ES 
barrier effect, which creates an effective uphill gradient. As expected, after the coalescence 
process is complete, the ES barrier effect has a great impact on the vertical growth rate of the 
persistent islands. In addition, the adatoms deposited near the persistent islands prefer sticking to 
the ascending steps and therefore some holes develop near the islands, as shown in Fig. 1(b). 
Finally, the persistent islands grow in 3D, linearly with the growth time, however, in the absence 
of Al-droplets or additional AlN island nucleation. 
 
FIG 3: TEM cross sectional dark-field images of the AlN layer for the film thickness of 180nm taken with (a) 
g=0002 and (b) g=11-20. 
Figures 3(a) and (b) are TEM two-beam dark-field images using g = 0002 and g = 11-20, 
respectively, obtained from the cross sectional AlN layer of 180nm thickness. From Fig. 3(a), 
there are no columnar defects between the island and adjacent regions. Therefore, the formation 
of the AlN hexagonal islands is different from the hexagonal pyramid shaped hillocks due to 
inversion domains21. Using the well-known g⋅b = 0 invisibility criterion, we can identify the 
threading dislocations in Fig. 3(a) and (b) as type c and type a, respectively. Fig. 3 also reveals 
that the threading dislocation density exhibits a remarkable difference between the persistent 
island and other regions. The threading dislocation density remains high throughout the thickness 
range at the regions other than the island. However, the density of the threading dislocations is 
highest near the AlN/Si interface, and then decreases sharply toward the subinterface underneath 
the persistent island due to a dislocation annihilation mechanism. The plausible mechanism can 
be rationalized as the redirection of threading dislocation by the different growth rate between the 
 8
deposited prior to the implantation to reduce the damage; Zone B is the damage region, consisting 
of amorphous silicon (Fig. 5(b)) ranging from 10nm to 200nm beneath the surface, which 
resulted from ion bombardment; Zone C exhibits dark contrast, which might be associated with a 
large strain in the boundary region between Zone B and the silicon matrix, representing the 
deepest region reached by the implanted elements. From the TEM micrograph, it is clear that no 
obvious contrast was found for InN crystals in the as-implanted sample. 
 
FIG 5: TEM bright-field cross-sectional images under a (400) two-beam condition for the samples (a) as-implanted, 
(c) annealed at 600 °C for 1 h, and (e) annealed at 800 °C for 1 h, with the respective HRTEM image of zone C 
shown in (b), (d), and (f). The insets of (c) and (e) are phase ramp mapping images of the samples annealed at 600 
and 800 °C, respectively, and those of (d) and (f) are Fourier transformed images taken from the dot region for the 
samples annealed at 600 and 800 °C, respectively. 
 However, the morphology changed after annealing the as-implanted sample in NH3 
atmosphere at 600 oC or 800 oC. In the sample annealed at 600oC (Fig. 5(c)), the damaged region, 
Zone B, underwent a slight recrystallization close to Zone C. This was known from the 
diffraction pattern, and some nanocrystals were found on the side of Zone C. For a clear 
demonstration of the dots, an enlarged view of the energy-filtered HRTEM images of the Zone C 
in the sample are shown in Fig. 5(d). A slight distortion of lattice planes associated with dark 
contrast, which is a typical characteristic of dots, could be seen in some regions (dashed circles) 
within the Si matrix. This is regarded as direct evidence of the formation of quantum dots. The 
 10
at 396.5eV for all other curves is attributed to In-N bonding. These two figures clearly confirm 
that InN compound has formed over some range of thicknesses (from approximately 30nm to 
200nm) without the apparent  formation of any other nitrides, especially silicon nitride, within 
the Si matrix.  
Figure 7 shows the room- temperature PL spectra of the samples annealed at 6000C and 
8000C for 1 hr. Both spectra show broad emission bands, which were further decomposed by 
Gaussian shape modeling with a high R^2 value of 0.995. For the sample annealed at 6000C, the 
main emission is located at 0.736 eV with a full width at half maximum (FWHM) of 46 meV. 
This emission energy is close to the theoretically predicted band gap value of  0.74 eV 
postulated by Bagayoko et al., using the LDA-Bagayoko, Zhao, and Williams (LDA-BZW) 
method. Because of the apparent distribution of various defects found in the sample, it is possible 
that the emission is also relevant to the defect-related emission of the Si matrix. However, we can 
rule out this possibility because only 0.8eV, 0.89eV, 0.95eV, and 1.00eV have been identified 
corresponding to dislocation lines D1, D2, D3 and D4, respectively, for nitrogen-implanted 
silicon subjected to thermal treatment. In addition, it is worth mentioning that the FWHM of the 
main emission is small, unlike defect-related bands, which are usually associated with a broad 
FWHM. Based on the above discussion, we concluded that the main emission should originate 
from the near-band-edge of zinc- blende InN. In addition, the other, weaker intensity peak located 
at the lower energy side of 0.69 eV was assigned to the phonon replica of the main peak, which is 
a common feature seen in III-V compounds. The energy difference between these two peaks is 
about 46meV, which is consistent with the energy of the A1(TO) phonon (54meV) for InN, 
estimated by Raman analysis. 
 
FIG 7: Room-temperature PL spectra of the samples annealed at 600 and800 °C for 1 h. 
For the sample annealed at 8000C, though the dot size is larger than that of the sample 
annealed at 6000C, the main peak still remains in the same position, indicating that no size effect 
is observed in our case. In addition, although the strain within the InN dots of the sample 
annealed at 8000C is larger (more coherent at the interface) than that of the sample annealed at 
 12
inversion domains (IDs) in GaN28 and AlN films29. Thus, these nanotips may be IDs which 
appear brighter than the adjacent surrounding matrix. The polarity of AlN critically depends on 
the surface stoichiometry both in the initial stage and during the growth.30 Under N-rich growth 
condition, the majority of chemical bonds at the AlN/Si interface are Si-N bonds leading to an 
N-terminated growing surface. Therefore, the dominant polarity of the AlN matrix is N-polarity 
under the N-rich growth condition. The AlN nanotips appear to be nucleated from pits in 
N-polarity matrix and the brighter contrast implies that the tips are Al-polarity. 
 
FIG. 9: Cross sectional TEM two-beam dark-field images obtained form AlN nanotip with (a) g=0002, (b) g=1-210, (c) 
three-dimensional schematic view of the pit-like defect and AlN nanotip, (d) the schematic view of the {1-21-1}, {1-21-2} and 
{1-21-3} facets in the {1-210} plane, and (e) TEM cross sectional dark-field images of the GaN layer grown on AlN nanotips. 
The pit-like defects have inverted pyramidal shape and the faceted planes are inclined with 
47o with respect to the AlN (0001) basal plane, corresponding to the AlN {1-21-3} facet planes 
schematically presented in Fig. 9 (c). The {1-21-3} faceted sidewalls tend to appear by increasing 
N-flux due to their relatively low surface energy31 for the lower Al/N dangling bond ratio of 0.4, 
compared to 0.5 for {1-21-2} facet and 0.67 for {1-21-1} facet, as shown in Fig. 9 (d). The AlN 
nanotips were formed on pit-like defects and bounded by {1-211} facet planes to form the apex 
angle of 34o. The growth of AlN nanotips has been explained by the “step-edge” model32. If the 
vertical and radial directions are chosen for [0001] and [1-210] to match our case, this modal can 
be adopted to explain the morphology by selecting n1/n2=1, where n1 and n2 represent the 
numbers of unit in [1-210] and [0001] of each step, respectively. Fig. 9 (e) shows a 
cross-sectional TEM dark-field image with an exact 0002 two-beam condition from the 
overgrown GaN layer on top of the AlN nanotips. It can be clearly seen that the GaN layer 
contains long and narrow columnar IDs, which nucleate from the AlN nanotips and propagate 
through the entire layer. This type of IDs in the layer structure of GaN/AlN/Si (111) by MBE has 
 14
±c/8, which is the distance between Ga and N planes along the [0001] direction. Therefore, the 
formation of c-type dislocations between two adjacent AlN grains would reverse the stacking 
sequence of the subsequent adatoms, leading to the growth of the AlN nanotips with inverse 
polarity on the pit-like defects. The nanotips of Al-polarity would have a higher growth rate.26,29 
Besides, the formation of the AlN nanotips is strongly induced by strain relaxation28 and the 
Eherlich-Schowebel (ES) barrier effect38,39. The ES barrier effect has a great impact in enhancing 
the vertical growth rate of the embryos of the nanotips. In addition, the nanotips exhibit a higher 
strain than the matrix due to no defects for strain relaxation, which also contributes to the higher 
vertical growth rate, and results in the formation of the nanotips as a means of reducing the strain. 
The strain relaxation in the nanotips could reduce the island edge diffusion barrier. For those 
reasons, the hexagonal AlN nanotips would develop during the AlN layer growth process. 
 
(IV) Growth and characteristics of self-assembly defect-Free GaN surface islands by 
molecular beam epitaxy  
 
FIG. 11: AFM image shows the surface morphology of GaN layers grown on bare c-sapphire at 700oC with V/III=20. 
Figure 11 shows the AFM image of the surface morphology of the as-deposited GaN layer 
grown on bare c-sapphire at 700oC with V/III= 20. It is obvious that the morphology exhibits a 
smooth and flat surface with a few dislocation pits for the Ga-rich condition of the 
two-dimensional (2D) layer by layer growth. Fig. 12 shows the SEM images, AFM images and 
AFM line profiles of the surface morphology of the as-deposited GaN layers directly on 
c-sapphire grown at 750oC for 3 hours with various V/III ratios. The GaN film grown under 
higher N-rich condition (V/III= 30), as seen in Figs. 12(a) and (d) consisted of nano-islands on a 
layer structure, with the nano-islands exhibiting a variety of shapes, such as rectangular, 
quadrilateral and hexagonal. Island size ranged from 110 to 210nm, and the height ranged from 
32 to 72nm, as observed in Fig. 12(g). The insertion of a nitrided Ga layer effectively improved 
the uniformity of the shape and size of the nano-islands, as shown in Figs. 12(b) and (e), while 
other growth conditions remained the same. In this case, island size ranged from 110 to 150nm, 
and height ranged from 30 to 55nm, as observed in Fig. 12(h). The nitrided Ga layer developed 
GaN sub-grains (not shown) for partially relaxing the strain and for accommodation at the 
GaN/sapphire interface due to lattice mismatch. The GaN sub-grains might have acted as ideal 
nucleation site for subsequent GaN layer growth to form more uniform surface islands. The 
 16
with a width of 8 to 30 nm. However, the formation of the GaN surface islands did not directly 
correspond to the emergence of the IDs, as seen in Fig. 13(a) and (b), which seemed to cause the 
formation of pyramidal hillocks.29,42-43 Therefore, the GaN surface islands were distinctive from 
the previously reported pyramidal hillocks. On the other hand, threading dislocation was densely 
nucleated from the GaN/sapphire interface and annihilated quickly toward the surface, as has 
been reported.44,45 This can possibly be explained by the different growth rates between the 
surface islands and the surroundings, which led to the formation of dipole loops by the two 
dislocations with opposite signs, which were redirected so as to meet each other, as seen in Fig. 
13(a). The GaN surface island appeared to be a perfect single-crystalline without any grain 
boundaries or defects, which can be further substantiated by the cross-sectional TEM image in 
Fig. 13(c). 
 
FIG. 13: TEM cross-sectional bright-field images with g=0002 obtained from GaN layers grown (a) directly on 
c-sapphire; (b) on Ga-buffered c-sapphire; and (c) [1-210] cross-sectional TEM image of the GaN nanoisland. 
Raman scattering was employed to obtain information about the strain involved in the 
surface islands. In III-nitride materials, it is well known that the E2 (high) mode is sensitive to 
stress, so the peak shift can be related to the degree of strain existing in the films.46, 47 The Raman 
spectra in Fig. 14(a) were taken from the two GaN samples (V/III= 30) grown on bare c-sapphire 
and Ga-buffered c-sapphire with a ~4μm-thick MOCVD GaN film for comparison. Fig. 14(b) is 
the enlarged spectra of the E2 (high) mode, which was located at 567.6, 567.2 and 568.0 cm-1, 
corresponding to the three samples, respectively. Compared to the ~4μm-thick MOCVD GaN 
film, which exhibited the same peak position as reported previously40,48, the E2 (high) mode of 
the GaN layers containing the surface islands showed a red shift and a slight broadening of the 
line width, as presented in Fig. 14(b). The board peak from the GaN layer grown on Ga-buffered 
c-sapphire was decomposed further into two peaks, located at 567.7 and 566.1 cm-1, originating 
from the GaN film and the surface islands, respectively. A larger tensile strain in the surface 
islands was evidenced by the redshift of the E2 (high) mode to 566.1cm-1. The GaN surface 
islands exhibited a higher tensile stress than the GaN layer due to no defects within for strain 
relaxation, which also contributed to the high growth rate and their becoming taller islands as a 
means of reducing the strain. The strain relaxation in the surface GaN islands reduced the island 
edge barrier.37 Therefore, adatoms easily migrated to the preexistent island edges and 
successively sustained the three-dimensional (3D) growth mode. 
 18
become taller and larger, as shown in Fig. 15(b). The island size increased due to both 
coalescence and growth. With prolonged growth time, the GaN islands coalesced and formed a 
continuous film with transition to 2D growth mode, as shown in Fig. 15(c). At the same time, the 
ES barrier effect had a significant impact in enhancing the vertical growth rate of the preexisting 
taller islands nucleated in the beginning.38,39 The adatoms preferentially attached to those 
preexisting islands, which created an effective uphill gradient with a localized growth 
enhancement. Finally, only the preexisting islands remained in 3D, i.e. as surface islands, as 
shown in Fig. 15(d). Thus, the surface islands remained during the GaN layer growth process. 
However, the nanoisland growth requires special growth conditions in terms of V/III ratio and 
substrate temperature in between 2D and 3D growth mode. Even higher V/III ratio would lead to 
3D growth due to the kinetically limited growth mode and resulting in nanocolumn or nanorod 
growth. Therefore the GaN surface islands are stable against growing taller and can not be 
regarded as the nucleation stage of nanocolumns. 
 
FIG. 16: (a) Schematic diagram of the experimental setup for C-AFM measurement; (b) AFM surface morphology; (c) 
C-AFM current images of the GaN layer grown directly on a Ga-buffered sapphire sample, with a sample-to-tip 
voltage of -3.0V; and (d) dual cross sections of one of the surface islands containing topography (line) and current 
(circle) signals superimposed. 
C-AFM was used to investigate local conductivity in the GaN layers. The schematic of the 
C-AFM measurement arrangement is shown in Fig. 16(a). The AFM topography and C-AFM 
current image of the GaN layer grown on Ga-buffered sapphire are shown in Figs. 16(b) and (c), 
respectively. The extracted cross-sectional line profiles in Fig. 16(d) show the typical current 
distribution in the island to be at a -3V bias. The C-AFM results showed enhanced current 
conduction at the island edges because the off-axis {1-21-2} or {1-21-1} facets in the islands 
were more electrically active than the surrounding c-plane GaN. However, the diameter of an Si 
 20
grown on the GaN surface islands samples. 
 
(V) Growth and characteristics of GaN nanorods by molecular beam epitaxy: dependence 
of growth temperature and AlN buffer 
 
FIG 18: 45o tilted SEM images and corresponding diameter distributions of GaN nanorods grown by MBE with 
V/III= 40 on bare Si for 2.5h at (a) 750oC, (b) 767oC, and (c) 780oC. The inset shows the corresponding side and top 
view SEM images. 
Figure 18 shows the SEM images and corresponding diameter distributions of the GaN 
nanorods grown on bare-Si (111) substrate under V/III= 40 for 2.5h with various growth 
temperature. Figure 18(a) represents uniform and compact GaN rod nanostructures with 
diameters in a range of 15-50nm at the growth temperature of 750oC. Due to large lattice 
mismatch and a large interfacial energy between GaN and Si (111), the GaN/Si (111) 
heteroepitaxial growth would be expected to follow Volmer-Weber (VW) growth mode for 
nucleation and coalescence of 3D islands in the early growth stage.54 However, the GaN 
nucleation islands under N-rich condition would enhance the subsequent growth into densely 
nanorod structure due to the kinetically limited growth mode, as seen is Fig. 18(a).8,55 The 
contribution to the volume of nanorod growth is related to direct impingement from molecular 
beam flux and the adatom diffusion to the rod apex from its sidewall (diffusion-induced 
mechanism).56 An increase of the growth temperature (from 750 to 780oC) led to a reduction in 
nanorod diameter with an increase in density (from 9.31×109 to 1.42×1010cm-2) as shown in Fig. 
18(a) to (c). The growth rate also would be reduced significantly from 3.3 to 1.6 nm/min. That is 
because not only Ga adatoms will have a higher surface diffusivity, but also the Ga desorption 
 22
formation of surrounding matrix, as seen in Fig. 19(b) and Fig. 20(b). However, further 
increasing the growth temperature to 780oC would lead to a reduction in density of the nanorods 
as seen in Fig. 20(c). From the statistic results, when GaN nanorods were grown on AlN buffer, 
the growth temperature would not significantly effect on the average diameter of nanorod. The 
estimated growth rate of grown on bare-Si and AlN buffer is summarized in Fig. 21. It is seen that 
GaN nanorods deposited on AlN buffer would have higher growth rate than on bare-Si.  
 
FIG 21: The estimated growth rate of GaN nanorods grown on bare-Si and AlN buffer. 
GaN deposited on AlN surface also can be formed in rod structure via Stranski-Krastanow 
(SK) growth mode.57 The 3D GaN seed islands would grow via SK transition in the early growth 
stage. Then base on 3D growth, from where the GaN nanorods would grow along preferential 
c-axis (<0001> direction) under N-rich condition. The difference is that the Ga ad-atoms have a 
higher surface diffusivity when growing on AlN buffer as compared to on bare-Si surface.55 At 
lower growth temperature of 750oC, a short diffusion length of Ga species and a less desorption 
of Ga on AlN surface would lead an increasing amount of Ga ad-atoms to incorporate to GaN 
matrix before arriving to rod seeds in both lateral and vertical growth. As a consequence, the 
coexistence of a low density of nanorods and surrounding matrix can be observed. By raising 
growth temperature to 767oC, the diffusion process is enhanced leading larger amount of Ga 
ad-atoms to contribute to the nanorod growth before desorption. There is absence of GaN matrix 
layer when growing at such higher temperature as seen in Fig. 20(b). It is worth to note that less 
amount of nanorods grows at temperature of 780oC which causes reduction of grown material due 
to significant Ga desorption and GaN decomposition. The diffusion induced mechanism has a 
great impact on enhancing the growth of nanorods on AlN buffer as compared to on bare-Si. The 
GaN nanorod density can be controlled by using AlN buffers and controlling by growth 
temperature. However, the growth rate and diameter distribution of nanorods would not be 
significantly effected by the growth temperature. 
The cross-sectional high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image of the GaN nanorod grown on 
AlN buffer at 767oC from [10-10] zone axis is shown in Fig. 20(c). The GaN nanorod appears to 
be a single-crystalline along the [0001] growth direction with atomically sharp sidewall. However, 
the planar defect (stacking mismatch boundary) along <0002> can be observed in Fig. 20(d). It 
can be ascribed to a highly strained area either at GaN/Si or GaN/AlN interface resulting in 
stacking sequence across the fault changes from ABABAB to BABABA at the early stage of the 
growth.58 On the other hand, it can be seen that the higher strain at interface causes the column 
 24
PL band causes from exciton bound to structure defects at the nanorod bottom interfaces.60,61 The 
structure defects could probably be stacking faults or threading dislocations originate form at the 
end of the nanorods to relax the strain and for accommodation at the growth interface due to 
lattice mismatch. On the other hand, the GaN nanorods grown on AlN buffer show an emission 
band near 3.453eV. The emission is attributed to the defect band from AlN buffer. It could be 
related to the nitrogen vacancies or Al interstitial created in the AlN lattice.61  
Figure 23 shows the peak position of D0X of GaN nanorods with different growth 
condition as a function of temperature. It can be seen that the temperature dependence of the peak 
energy of most of samples follow the Varshni law,62 which describes the temperature-induced 
bandgap shrinkage given by Eg(T)= E(0)-αT2/(β+T), where Eg(T) is the transition energy at given 
temperature, E(0) is the transition energy at 0 K, while α and β are Varshni thermal coefficient. 
The best-fit values are α= 5.3×10-4K and β= 482.2K for all samples. The value of α is fixed as 
5.3×10-4K because the thermal coefficient should have the same values for the same materials. 
These values are in good agreement with earlier observations.63 However, the emission peak shift 
for GaN nanorods grown on AlN buffer at 750oC showed an S-shape-like characteristic. A similar 
behavior has been reported previously for the GaN nanorods with larger diameter (≥ 70nm).63 
Compared with in our study, the GaN grown on AlN buffer at 750oC coexists of a low density of 
nanorods and surrounding matrix. The GaN matrix is constituted with larger and shorter columns, 
as seen in Fig. 20(a). While this “S-shape-like” phenomenon is still not understood, further study 
is needed for explanation.  
 
FIG 24: (a) cross-sectional TEM images of overgrown InGaN/GaN MQWs in the GaN nanorod under [1-210] zone 
axis. (b) Room temperature PL spectra of InGaN MQWs grown in GaN nanorods. 
The GaN nanorods might serve as ideal templates for application in the production of 
light-emitting devices. If the InGaN/GaN multiple quantum wells (MQWs) were grown in the 
single crystalline GaN nanorods, due to the lack of dislocations or other defects and the large 
surface areas provided by the sidewalls of nanorods, we expect to enhance both internal and 
extraction efficiencies significantly for application in light-emitting devices. Figure 24(a) shows 
cross-sectional TEM images of overgrown InGaN/GaN MQWs in the GaN nanorod under [1-210] 
zone axis. Figure 24(b) shows the room temperature PL spectrum of the InGaN QWs grown in 
GaN nanorods, which exhibited a varied emission from 415nm to 505nm by controlling the 
growth conditions. 
 26
can be seen that the 200oC grown nanoislands have higher aspect ratios of 0.18±0.02, compared 
to 0.10±0.02 for the RT grown nanoislands. The change in the aspect ratio suggests that the 
islands may undergo a shape transition in the temperature range investigated. In a coherent 
system, equilibrium islands with a specific aspect ratio would result from minimum system free 
energy between strain energy and surface energy. The shape of the islands with a higher aspect 
ratio is strain-energetically favorable because more elastic strain can be relaxed as the island 
becomes taller and narrower.  
 
FIG 26: Cross-sectional TEM image of the nanoislands grown at 200oC, (a) low- magnification (b) high-resolution 
image and (c) Fe 2p core level XPS spectra for RT and 200oC samples. The samples are after ordinary Ar ion 
sputtering. 
Figure 26 (a) shows a bright-field cross-sectional TEM image for the sample grown at 
200oC. It can be seen that two nanoislands lie on an interfacial layer about 3 nm thick on top of 
the Si substrate. Nanoislands obtained here are single crystalline as illustrated by the HRTEM 
image shown in Fig. 26(b). The lattice spacing is found to be 0.252nm, corresponding well to the 
(111) planar spacing of the FeSi phase, and indicating that the nanoislands are composed of FeSi. 
On the other hand, the composition of the nanoislands grown at RT is pure iron as shown in the 
previous study.64 It is known that Si has high solubility in Fe at RT, however, a temperature 
above 200oC is needed for further activation of atomic diffusion.65 Consequently, the formation 
of the FeSi nanoislands observed here is due to the thermal diffusion of silicon into iron activated 
at 200oC. Nevertheless, at RT, Fe and Si intermixed in the first stage to form a Fe-silicide layer 
which acts as a spacer layer preventing Si from further diffusion. Figure 26 (c) is XPS spectra 
showing the Fe 2p peaks of the samples. Core-level binding energies and line shapes are sensitive 
to local structure and extended electronic structure. For the RT grown sample, the binding energy 
of Fe 2p3/2 located at 707.3 eV (solid line), corresponds well to the pure iron Fe 2p3/2 peak. 
Compared with metallic iron, the Fe 2p3/2 peak of FeSi shifted to a higher binding energy of 
707.5 eV (dotted line). Moreover, the value of the FWHM is lowered by about 0.23 eV, 
compared to the RT grown case.66 Both the peak shift and the narrower core line of the Fe 2p2/3 
peak confirm the reaction between Si and Fe for iron silicide formation at 200oC. 
 28
ordering and size uniformity. 
 
FIG 28: M-H loops of the nanoislands with the applied magnetic field (a) parallel and (b) perpendicular to the film 
plane. 
Magnetic properties are investigated by SQUID with the maximum applied field of 10 kOe 
measured at 7K. Figure 28 shows a series of hysteresis loops of the samples grown at RT and 
200oC with the external magnetic field applied either in the film plane (H//, Fig. 28(a)) or 
perpendicular to the film plane (H ⊥ , Fig. 28(b)). For the film grown at RT, rounded loops with a 
pronounced slope are found for both field orientations, whereas for the 200oC deposited sample, 
hysteresis only occurs for H ⊥ . It is assumed here that the existence of a hysteresis loop for only 
one direction of the applied field implies magnetization with an easy axis parallel to that applied 
field direction. Therefore, the 200oC grown sample represents perpendicular anisotropy and the 
sloping loops for both field orientations from the RT deposited sample indicate a canted 
magnetization out of the film plane. The competition between shape and surface anisotropy is 
responsible for the canted magnetization observed in the RT grown sample. On the other hand, 
the FeSi nanoislands formed at 200oC show unusual ferromagnetic properties which might arise 
from the uncompensated iron in the surface of nanoislands.71, 72  
 
 30
 
(V) Growth and characteristics of GaN nanorods by molecular beam epitaxy: dependence 
of growth temperature and AlN buffer 
In conclusion, we have investigated the growth and optical properties of single crystalline 
vertical array GaN nanorods grown by plasma assisted molecular beam epitaxy, as a function of 
growth temperature and AlN buffer. It is found that the diffusion induced mechanism has a great 
impact on enhancing the growth of nanorods on AlN buffer as compared to on bare-Si. The GaN 
nanorod density can be controlled by using AlN buffers and controlling by growth temperature. 
The GaN nanorods might serve as ideal templates for application in the production of 
light-emitting devices. 
 
(VI) Self-ordering phenomenon of epitaxial FeSi nanoislands on Si (001) and the magnetic 
properties  
To conclude, we have studied the growth of Fe and FeSi self-assembled nanoislands on 
Si(001) at the deposition temperatures of RT and 200oC. It is shown that both Fe and FeSi 
nanoislands are nucleated on top of a silicide terrace via a pathway analogous to SK mode; the 
island arrangement is strongly dependent on the strain energy of the underlying epilayer. For the 
RT growth, Ostwald ripening takes place and results in a broad island size distribution, while in 
the 200oC growth, islands do not coalescence during the whole growth process. In the latter case, 
we attribute the absence of island coalescence to the increasing repulsive interaction between 
islands through the strain field of the epilayer. The FeSi nanoislands were observed to exhibit 
unusual magnetic behavior at 7K in the out of plane direction, which can be applied in 
high-density magnetic recording media. 
 
 32
30. X. Wang, A. Yoshikawa, Prog. Cryst. Growth Charact. Mater. 48/49, 42 (2004). 
31. F. Lin, N. Xiang, P. Chen, S. Y. Chow, and S. J. Chua, J. Appl. Phys. 103, 043508 (2008). 
32. S. Chattopadhyay, K. H. Chen, S. C. Shi, C. T. Wu, C. H. Chen, and L. C. Chen, Appl. Phys. 
Lett. 89, 143105 (2006). 
33. A. M. Sánchez, P. Ruterana, M. Benamara, and H. P. Strunk, Appl. Phys. Lett. 82, 4471 
(2003). 
34. G. Ade, R. Lauer, Ultramicorscopy 77, 177 (1999). 
35. R. Liu, F. A. Ponce, A. Dadgar, and A. Krost, Appl. Phys. Lett. 83, 860 (2003). 
36. A. M. Sanchez, G. P. Dimitrakopulos, and P. Ruterana, Appl. Phys. Lett. 86, 011917 (2005). 
37. V. S. Stepanyuk, D. I. Bazhanov, W. Hergert, and J. Kirschner, Phys. Rev. B 63, 153406 
(2001). 
38. R. L. Schwoebel and E. J. Shipsey, J. Appl. Phys. 37, 3682 (1966). 
39. M. G. Lagally and Z. Zhang, Nature (London) 417, 907 (2002). 
40. F. Liu, R. Collazo, S. Mita, Z. Sitar, G. Duscher, and S. J. Pennycook, Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 
203115 (2007). 
41. K. Y. Hsu, C. P. Liu, H. C. Chung, Y. C. Chiu, Appl. Phys. Lett. 93, 181902 (2008). 
42. L. T. Romano and T. H. Myers, Appl. Phys. Lett. 71, 3486 (1997). 
43. A. M. Sánchez, F. J. Pacheco, S. I. Molina, R. Garcia, P. Ruterana, M. A. Sánchez-García, and 
E. Calleja, Appl. Phys. Lett. 78, 2688 (2001). 
44. J. Bai, M. Dudley, W. H. Sun, H. M. Wang, and M. Asif Khan, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 051903 
(2006). 
45. M. Hijikuro, N. Kuwano, M. Takeuchi, and Y. Aoyagi, Phys. Stat. Sol. (c) 3, 1832 (2006). 
46. M. Giehler, M. Ramsteiner, P. Waltereit, O. Brandt, K. H. Ploog, and H. Obloh, J. Appl. Phys. 
89, 3634 (2001). 
47. H. J. Trodahl, F. Martin, P. Muralt, and N. Setter, Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 061905 (2006). 
48. V. Yu. Davydov, Yu. E. Kitaev, I. N. Goncharuk, A. N. Smirnov, J. Graul, O. Semchinova, D. 
Uffmann, M. B. Smirnov, A. P. Mirgorodsky, and R. A. Evarestov, Phys. Rev. B 58, 12899 
(1998). 
49. A. Trampert, O. Brandt, K. H. Ploog, J. I. Pankove, T. D. Moustakas, Semiconductors and 
Semimetals, Vol. 50, Academic Press, New York, 1998, P. 167. 
50. F. Dwikusuma, J. Mayer, T. F. Kuech, J. Cryst. Growth 258, 65 (2003). 
51. X. X. Gu, D. M. Huang, and H. Morkoç, Chin. Phys. Lett. 20, 1822 (2003). 
52. A. A. Pomarico, D. Huang, J. Dickinson, A. A. Baski, R. Cingolani, H. Morkoç, and R. 
Molnar, Appl. Phys. Lett. 82, 1890 (2003). 
53. A. Lochthofen, W. Mertin, G. Bacher, L. Hoeppel, S. Bader, J. Off, and B. Hahn, Appl. Phys. 
Lett. 93, 022107 (2008). 
54. S. Vézian, F. Natali, F. Semond, and J. Massies, Phys. Rev. B 69, 125329 (2004). 
55. E. Calleja, J. Ristić, S. Fernández-Garrido, L. Cerutti, M. A. Sánchez-García, J. Grandal, A. 
Trampert, U. Jahn, G. Sánchez, A. Griol, and B. Sánchez, Phys. Stat. Sol (b) 8, 2816 (2007). 
56. R. K. Debnath, R. Meijers, T. Richter, T. Stoica, R. Calarco, and H. Lüth, Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 
123117 (2007). 
 34
6. Self-evaluation 
The achievement of this work is about 90% as compared to the expected objectives. The main 
academic contributions are as follows: 
(1) The interrupted method would improve the surface flatness of the AlN layers to avoid the Al 
droplets formation under an Al-rich growth condition. 
(2) The zinc-blende InN (metastable phase) quantum dots have been fabricated by ion 
implantation followed by post annealing. 
(3) The characteristics of structure and morphology of AlN nanotips grown under higher V/III 
ratio on Si (111) with plasma-assisted MBE are herein investigated.  
(4) The density and size of the AlN nanotips can be controlled by the growth conditions. 
(5) GaN surface nano-islands of high crystal quality, without any dislocations or other extended 
defects, are grown on a c-plane sapphire substrate by plasma-assisted MBE. 
(6) The insertion of a nitrided Ga layer can effectively improve the uniformity of the GaN 
nanoislands in both shape and size.  
(7) The density and size of the GaN surface islands can be controlled by the growth conditions. 
(8) The growth and optical properties of GaN nanorods grown by plasma-assisted MBE are 
investigated by means of SEM, TEM and low-temperature PL measurement as a function of 
growth temperature and using of AlN buffer.  
(9) The GaN nanorod density can be controlled by using AlN buffers and controlling by growth 
temperature.  
(10) The low density/larger diameter of GaN nanorods were achieved in this study.  
(11) The InGaN multiple quantum wells grown in GaN nanorods, which exhibited a varied 
emission from 415nm to 505nm by controlling the growth conditions. 
(12) These III-nitride nano-structures might serve as ideal templates for application in the 
production of light-emitting devices. 
(13) The growth and ferromagnetism of self-assembled Fe(Si) nanoislands on Si(001) at the 
deposition temperature of RT and 200oC is investigated.  
(14) The FeSi nanoisalnds show unexpected magnetic behavior in the out of plane direction 
caused by the uncompensated iron on the island surface.  This anomalous property may be 
applied in magnetic memory devices. 
 
Journal papers: 
(1) “Mechanism for persistent hexagonal island formation in AlN buffer layer during growth on 
Si (111) by plasma-assisted molecular beam epitaxy” Kuang-Yuan Hsu, Hung-Chin Chuan, 
Chuan-Pu Liu, and Li-Wei Tu, Applied Physics Letters 90 211902 (2007). 
(2) “Structural and optical properties of cubic-InN quantum dots prepared by ion implantation in 
Si (100) substrate” Yi-Kai Huang, Chuan-Pu Liu, Yen-Lin Lai, Cheng-Yu Wang, Yi-Feng Lai and 
Hung-Chin Chung, Applied Physics Letters 91 091921 (2007). 
(3) “Molecular beam epitaxy growth of wurtzite AlN nanotips” Kuang-Yuan Hsu, Chuan-Pu Liu, 
Hung-Chin Chung and Yu-Chen Chiu, Applied Physics Letters 93 181902 (2008). 
(4) “Growth and Characterization of epitaxial Fe nanoislands on Si (001): Size effects on 
