主動式駕駛安全輔助系統中分析、協調、與預測三大子系統之研究與開發 
Chiung-Yao Fang 
Information and Computer Education Department 
National Taiwan Normal University 
Taipei, Taiwan, ROC 
psyen@alumni.ice.ntnu.edu.tw, 
violet@ice.ntnu.edu.tw 
Sei-Wang Chen 
Computer Science and Information  
Engineering Department 
National Taiwan Normal University 
Taipei, Taiwan, ROC 
schen@csie.ntnu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
This study applies a modified cascaded fuzzy reasoning 
Petri net (CFRPN) model to analyze dangerous driving 
events on a freeway. The dangerous driving events can be 
divided into two groups: (1) the interaction between a 
driver’s vehicle and the road environment, and (2) the 
interaction between a driver’s vehicle and nearby vehicles. 
These two classes of driving events may occur 
simultaneously and lead to certain serious traffic situations. 
The proposed system analyzes these two kinds of events 
determines dangerous situations from data collected by 
various sensors. Since collecting real driving event data on 
freeway is dangerous and time consuming, a data generation 
system is developed to generate the experimental data. Such 
data can help evaluate the performance of the proposed 
analysis system. Finally, experimental results show that the 
proposed system is accurate and robust. 
Keywords：Active driver assistance system, driving event 
analysis, fuzzy reasoning Petri net 
1. Introduction 
Diverse methods for enhancing driving safety have 
been proposed. Such methods can be roughly classified as 
passive or active. Passive methods (e.g., seat-belts, airbags, 
and anti-lock braking systems), which have significantly 
reduced traffic fatalities, were originally introduced to 
diminish the degree of injury from an accident. By contrast, 
active methods are designed to prevent accidents from 
occurring. Driver assistance systems (DAS) [Sch00] are 
designed to bring to alert the driver as quickly as possible to 
a potentially dangerous situation.  
Figure 1 illustrates a block diagram of a DAS, which 
can be split into two major components, for detection and 
analysis. The systems included in the detection component 
are used to collect the relevant data. These data can be 
obtained by various equipments, such as visual sensors, 
infrared ray sensors, laser sensors, ultrasonic wave sensors, 
ladar sensors and global positioning systems (GPS). Other 
sensors are adopted to detect the driver’s stress and 
drowsiness. Many researchers have developed detection 
systems to collect data accurately and quickly from these 
sensors. However, these detection systems generally work 
independently of each other. Few researchers [Mit03] are 
interested in integrating the high-level, abstract information 
from the collected data, for example to determine whether 
dangerous driving events occur. Furthermore, since every 
sensor has its limitations, we believe that integrating the 
detection results from different systems can improve the 
accuracy and efficiency of understanding driving situations. 
This study proposes a dangerous driving event analysis 
system to integrate the outputs from detection systems, and 
thus obtain some reasonable conclusions about the degree of 
danger in the driving environment. 
2. Dangerous Driving Event Analysis System 
Figure 2 shows the flowchart of the dangerous driving 
event analysis system. In this system, the data of driving 
environment acquired by various sensors can be divided into 
two classes, static and dynamic, which are obtained from 
different detection systems. The static data are those 
acquired from the road environment, such as the type or 
content of road signs, the number of lanes and the position 
of tunnel entrances or exits. The dynamic data are those that 
describe the motions of the vehicles, including the driver’s 
vehicle and those nearby.  
The dangerous driving events handled by the proposed 
system are divided into two classes that correspond to the 
two classes of data. The first class contains events relating 
to the behavior of the vehicle in the road environment (i.e. 
static data). The second class is events relating to the 
behaviors of our vehicle on nearby vehicles. Since driving 
events may occur simultaneously and result in certain 
serious traffic accidents, an integration stage is required to 
detect and measure such complicated driving events. The 
measured degree indicates whether the driver is in danger. 
In practice, the real data of the dangerous driving events 
are very difficult to collect because of the danger and time 
taken. Therefore, this study presents a data generation 
system to generate static and dynamic data to measure the 
performance of a dangerous driving event analysis system. 
However, the data generation system can only create driving 
environment data for a freeway. 
3. Cascaded Fuzzy Reasoning Petri Net 
This study develops a modified cascaded fuzzy 
reasoning Petri net (CFRPN) to analyze driving events. The 
CFRPN [Dua01] is designed for syllogistic fuzzy reasoning, 
and comprises several fuzzy reasoning Petri nets (FRPNs) 
that connect with others one by one as a 1D structure. This 
study extends the structure of CFRPN from 1D to 2D, and 
modifies the fuzzy reasoning mechanism in the FRPN to fit 
our applications. The modified CFRPN is also divided into 
several stages, but each stage contains several FRPNs, as 
illustrated in Fig. 3. The FRPNs in the same stage deal with 
the information of the same level of complexity. Moreover, 
the FRPNs in the later stages produce more complex 
information than those in earlier stages. 
the right vehicle and our vehicle.” In the third stage, FRPNs 
integrate the outputs from the FRPNs in the second stage to 
make a final conclusion on whether a dangerous driving 
event occurs in the entire driving environment. 
The proposed dangerous driving event analysis system 
only deals with motion of vehicles close to the driver’s 
vehicle. Therefore, eight neighboring vehicles positions are 
defined as forward, backward, left, right, left forward, left 
backward, right forward and right backward. The 
relationship between each neighborhood vehicle and our 
vehicle is reasoned by two FRPNs, one for relative lane 
change and the other for relative speed. Therefore, the first 
stage of CFRPN requires 16 FRPNs. 
First, the relative lane change relationship is determined 
by one of the eight FRPNs. The terms )( 11 θp , )( 22 θp , 
)( 33 θp , )( 44 θp , )( 55 θp , )( 66 θp , )( 77 θp , and )( 88 θp  
are defined as follows: 
(1) )( 11 θp : The driver’s vehicle moves without lane change. 
(2) )( 22 θp : The driver’s vehicle changes to the left lane. 
(3) )( 33 θp : The driver’s vehicle changes to the right lane. 
(4) )( 44 θp : The left-forward vehicle moves without 
changing lane. 
(5) )( 55 θp : The left-forward vehicle changes to the left 
lane. 
(6) )( 66 θp : The left-forward vehicle changes to the right 
lane. 
(7) )( 77 θp : The left-forward vehicle and ours are moving in 
the same lane. 
(8) )( 88 θp : The left-forward vehicle and ours are moving in 
different lanes. 
The previous six places, 621 ,...,, ppp , express the 
premises, and the following two ones, 7p  and 8p , 
express the consequences of rules. The FRPN in Fig. 6 can 
be adopted to reason the following two production rules 
comprising these premises and consequences.  
(1) )())()(())()(( 7744226611 θθθθθ ppppp →∧∨∧  
(2) 
)())()((
))()(())()(())()((
))()(())()(())()((
886633
553344336622
552255114411
θθθ
θθθθθθ
θθθθθθ
ppp
pppppp
pppppp
→∧∨
∧∨∧∨∧∨
∧∨∧∨∧
 
The first production rule derives the possibility that the 
left-forward vehicle and the driver’s vehicle are moving on 
the same lane, while the second rule derives the possibility 
that the left-forward vehicle and the driver’s vehicle are 
moving on different lanes. A result of 87 θθ >  reveals the 
first event has a larger probability of occurring than the 
second event. Furthermore, the confidence values of the 
transitions in the FRPN may be associated with the 
significance of the corresponding terms in the production 
rules.  
Second, one of the eight FRPNs is depicted to derive 
the relative vertical distance relationship. Let Vo denote our 
vehicle, and Vlf  be our left-forward vehicle. The terms 
)'(' 11 θp , )'(' 22 θp , )'(' 33 θp , )'(' 44 θp , )'(' 55 θp , 
)'(' 66 θp , and )'(' 77 θp  can then be defined as follows: 
(1) )'(' 11 θp : The vertical distance between Vo and Vlf is 
close. 
(2) )'(' 22 θp : The speed of Vo is slower than that of Vlf. 
(3) )'(' 33 θp : The speeds of Vo and Vlf are equal. 
(4) )'(' 44 θp : The speed of Vo is faster than that of Vlf. 
(5) )'(' 55 θp : The vertical distance between Vo and Vlf  
increases. 
(6) )'(' 66 θp : The vertical distance between Vo and Vlf 
remains the same. 
(7) )'(' 77 θp : The vertical distance between Vo and Vlf  
decreases. 
The previous four places, 421 ',...,',' ppp , represent the 
premises, and the following three places, 65  , pp  and 7'p , 
represent the consequences of the rules. The FRPN shown 
in Fig. 7 can lead to the following production rules.  
(1) )'(')'(')'(' 552211 θθθ ppp →∧  
(2) )'(')'(')'(' 663311 θθθ ppp →∧  
(3) )'(')'(')'(' 774411 θθθ ppp →∧  
These production rules determine the possibility that 
the vertical distance between the left forward vehicle 
increases, decreases, and remains the same, respectively. 
The finding ( 65 '' θθ >  and 75 '' θθ > ) indicates a large 
possibility that the vertical distance between the left forward 
vehicle and our vehicle is currently rising. 
The FRPNs in the second stage are used to analyze 
complex driving events. Let )"(" θp  denote “the degree of 
danger of motions between the left forward vehicle and 
ours.” Figure 8 shows the FRPN that reasons the following 
production rule of the complex driving event )"(" θp . 
)"("))'(')(())'(')((
))'(')(())'(')((
))'(')(())'(')((
77886688
55887777
66775577
θθθθθ
θθθθ
θθθθ
ppppp
pppp
pppp
→∧∨∧
∨∧∨∧
∨∧∨∧
 
Similarly, the confidence values of the transitions in the 
FRPN are associated with the importance of the 
corresponding terms in the production rule. For instance, the 
term )'(')( 5588 θθ pp ∧  signifies that events “the left 
forward vehicle and ours are moving on the different lane” 
and “their relative distance increases” both occur. This case 
is safe for the driver. Thus a larger output value of this term 
implies a lower degree of danger. Hence, the confidence 
degree 4"c  of the corresponding transition should be set 
close to zero. 
The second stage of the CFRPN comprises a total of 
eight FRPNs, denoting the dangerous driving events 
between each nearby vehicle and ours, respectively. 
Therefore, eight degrees of danger can be obtained from 
these eight FRPNs at this stage,. 
In the third stage of CFRPN, only one FRPN is utilized 
to integrate the eight degrees of danger. In such an FRPN, 
eight places connect to the same transition, which connects 
to only one place.  
3.3 Membership functions 
freeway driving environment. This data generation system 
will be further improved continuously. 
We believe that if the system can refer not only to the 
spatial information but also to the temporal information in 
the data sequences, then it could predict dangerous driving 
events and alarm the driver as early as possible in the future. 
Acknowledgment 
The authors would like to thank the National Science 
Council of the Republic of China, Taiwan for financially 
supporting this research under Contract No. NSC 
94-2213-E-003-008. 
 
References 
[Dua01] I. C. Duan and F. L. Chung, “Cascaded Fuzzy 
Neural Network Model Based on Syllogistic Fuzzy 
Reasoning,” IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, Vol. 9, 
pp. 293-1306, 2003.  
[Gao03] M. Gao, M. Zhou, X. Huang, and X. Wu, “Fuzzy 
Reasoning Petri Nets,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, 
Man and Cybernetics—Part A: Systems and Humans, Vol. 
33, pp. 314-324, 2003. 
[Gao04] M. Gao, M. Zhou, and Y. Tang, “Intelligent 
Decision Making in Disassembly Process Based on Fuzzy 
Reasoning Petri Nets,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, 
Man and Cybernetics—Part B: Cybernetics, Vol. 34, pp. 
2029-2034, 2004. 
[Mit03] D. Mitrović, “Reliable Method for Driving Events 
Recognition,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent 
Transportation Systems, Vol. 6, pp. 198-205, 2005. 
[Sch00] M. Schraut, K. Naab, and T. Bachmann, “BMW's 
Driver Assistance Concept for Integrated Longitudinal 
Support,” The 7th Intelligent Transport Systems World 
Congress, Paper No. 2121, Turin, Italy, 2000. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Structure of a cascaded fuzzy reasoning Petri net 
(CFRPN). 
 
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 
)( 11 θP
)( 22 θP
)( mmP θ
)( 11 ++ mmP θ
Figure 4: An FRPN presents the production rule 
in Eq. (1). 
c
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
)( 11 θP
)( 22 θP
)( mmP θ
)( 11 ++ mmP θ
2c
mc
Figure 5: An FRPN presents the production rule in 
Eq. (2). 
1c
Detection 
Component 
Sensor 1 Sensor 2 Sensor n
Detection 
system 1 
Detection 
system 2 
Detection 
system n 
Analysis 
Component Dangerous driving event analysis system
Warning output 
Figure 1: Block diagram of the detection and analysis 
components of a DAS. 
… 
… 
System start 
Data acquisition 
Driving event integration 
Degree of danger computation 
Degree of danger output 
Figure 2: Flowchart of the dangerous driving event analysis 
system. 
Analysis the interaction 
between a driver’s vehicle 
and the road environment 
Analysis the interaction 
between a driver’s vehicle 
and nearby vehicles 
