A. New design of pulse generator [1] 
Figure 1 illustrates the circuit schematic of the 
proposed monocycle pulse generator. This pulse 
generator consists of a pair of resistive loaded shunt 
stubs, a pair of short-circuited shunt stubs, a SRD 
and a Schottky diode. An external excitation drives 
the SRD to generate a step-like function with sharp 
roll-off edge. Instead of passing through the 
short-circuited stub directly [2], in our circuit scheme 
the step-like function first propagates across a 
junction with a resistive loaded stub attached. This 
stub serves as a wideband impedance matching 
between Part A and Part B of the circuit shown in Fig. 
1. After passing through the resistive loading, the 
step-like function then splits into two equal ones 
which simultaneously propagate along the main 
microstrip line as well as a short-circuited shunt stub. 
The wave propagates into the short-circuited stub 
will reflect back to the main line with reverse pulse 
polarity. After combining with the pulse propagating 
in the main line, a Gaussian impulse can be realized 
with limited ringing tail behind. The duration of the 
Gaussian impulse is mainly determined by the length 
of the shorted stub, that is, the propagation delay 
between the split step-like functions. The impulse 
generator was simulated using Agilent ADS 2005A 
and the external driven source was a 10 MHz square 
wave with a peak-to-peak voltage of 5V. Both the 
transmission line and the resistive loading were 
chosen to be 50 ohm for matching purpose. As 
shown in Fig. 2(a), a Gaussian-like impulse can be 
readily verified as expected.  
To further eliminate the negative portion as well as 
the ringing tail of a Gaussian impulse, the output 
waveform from the impulse generator then passes 
through a series Schottky diode and a second 
resistive loaded shunt stub. It is noted that, however, 
due to the impedance mismatching between the 
Schottky diode and the Gaussian impulse generator, 
part of incident wave will reflect back to the input 
line and tend to bounce back and forth between the 
SRD and Schottky diode. Such reflection wave 
generally results in long ringing tail behind the 
Gaussian impulse and significantly degrades the 
performance of a pulse generator. In [2] resistive 
loading and shunted Schottky diode are incorporated 
with DC biasing network to reduce the ringing level 
to -17 dB. In this paper we demonstrate an alternative 
scheme which introduces an additional resistive 
loaded shunt stub between the SRD and the series 
Schottky diode. With the extra resistive loading, the 
reflection wave can be adequately absorbed and the 
pulse ringing level can be suppressed to less than 
-20dB. Figure 2(b) illustrates the simulated output 
waveform with the second short-circuited stub being 
temporarily removed. Well-behaved Gaussian 
impulse can be readily observed with peak amplitude 
of 480 mV and pulsewidth of 150 ps.  
To complete the monocycle pulse generator, the 
Gaussian impulse then passes through another 
short-circuited stub whose length is adjusted to 
realize a monocycle pulse with optimized pulse 
duration and ringing level. The reason to choose a 
short-circuited stub rather than a RC network is due 
to the fact that the former one makes the impedance 
matching much more easily. Figure 3(a) illustrates 
the simulated waveform of the overall pulse 
generator. A symmetric monocycle pulse with 
peak-to-peak amplitude of 450 mV, pulsewidth of 
240 ps, and a ringing level of -18.2 dB has been 
demonstrated. The proposed monocycle pulse 
generator was fabricated using microstrip line 
technology on a FR4 glass epoxy substrate with 
dielectric constant of 4.4, thickness of 0.8mm, and 
loss tangent of 0.022. The Schottky diode and SRD 
Fig. 1. Circuit schematic of the proposed monocycle pulse generator.
46 48 50 52 54 56
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
(a)
V O
1  
(V
)
Time (nsec)
 
46 48 50 52 54 56
-0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
(b)
V O
2 (
V)
Time (nsec)  
   (a)    (b) 
Fig. 2. Simulated Gaussian impulse (a) before entering the Schottky 
diode and (b) after passing through the second resistive loading. 
46 48 50 52 54 56
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
(a)
V O
3,
 s
im
 (V
)
Time (nsec)  
46 48 50 52 54 56
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
(b)
V O
3,
 m
ea
 (V
)
Time (nsec)
 
   (a)    (b) 
Fig. 3 Generated monocycle pulses of the proposed circuit 
scheme. (a) Simulation. (b) Measurement. 
 
0 2 4 6 8 10
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
N
or
m
al
iz
ed
 S
pe
ct
ru
m
 (d
B
)
Frequency (GHz)
 Simulation
 Measurement
 
Fig. 4  Simulated and measured normalized pulse spectrum of the 
proposed monocycle pulse generator. 
 
the center frequency of the rejection band, on the 
other hand, the insertion loss is less than 2 dB. 
Figure 7(a) illustrates the schematic diagram of the 
third-derivative Gaussian pulse generator used in this 
work. The pulse generator is composed of a 
shunt-mode SRD pulse generator and a 
differentiating circuit. The differentiating circuit also 
acts as resistive loadings to eliminate the late-time 
ringing of the output waveform. The shunt-mode 
pulse generator consists of a series inductor L1, a 
series resistor R1 and a shunt-to-ground step recovery 
diode D1. An external square-wave generator 
conducts the diode during the positive half cycle of 
the input signal. At the falling edge of the square 
wave, the diode initially remains turned on due to its 
uniquely long storage time. As the minority carriers 
are completely excluded, the diode turns off abruptly 
and the magnetic field energy stored in the inductor 
L1 is dissipates by means of an impulse current 
flowing through R1. It therefore results in a 
subnanosecond Gaussian pulse. The Gaussian pulse 
then enters into the differentiating circuit which is 
composed of three resistive loaded shunt stubs and 
two series lumped capacitors C1 and C2. The 
waveform at the output of the differentiating circuit 
is quite similar to the third derivative of a Gaussian 
impulse. 
The proposed pulse generator was simulated 
using Agilent ADS 2006A, and fabricated on a 
0.8-mm FR4 substrate. The SRD applied is a 
SMMD-0832 diode from the Metelics Cooperation®. 
The optimized parameters are given by L1 = 1.5 nH, 
R1 = 180 Ω, R2 = R3 = 12 Ω, R4 = 10 Ω, C1 = 0.5 pF, 
and C2 = 1 pF. The microstrip lines in the stubs are 
chosen to be 50 ohms for matching purpose, and the 
lengths of the stubs are 1 mm. In the measurement 
the external excitation is provided by an Agilent 
33220A arbitrary waveform generator with a 10 MHz 
10-Vpp square wave. The rise and fall times are both 
5 ns. The simulated and measured pulses at the 
output of the differentiating circuit are shown in Fig. 
7(b). The measurement was performed by an Agilent 
digital oscilloscope DSO 81204B. The results further 
sustain the above discussions, and the output 
waveform has a peak-to-peak voltage of 430 mV and 
pulse width of 440 ps. 
Combining the pulse generator in Section III and 
the bandstop filter in Section II, in this section a 
novel ultrawideband pulse shaper is proposed, and a 
photograph of the design is shown in Fig. 8. The 
overall size of the proposed pulse shaper is 47 × 20 
mm2. In the simulation the responses of the bandstop 
filter were first simulated by the Agilent Momentum 
2006 and then imported into the ADS 2006 to 
perform the transient analysis along with the pulse 
generator. The measurements were performed by 
both the Agilent 81204B digital oscilloscope and 
E4445A spectrum analyzer. Figure 9 illustrates the 
simulated and measured pulses at the output of the 
pulse shaper. Reasonable agreement between the 
results can be observed and the discrepancy can be 
mostly attributed to the difficulty in accurately 
modeling the SRD used in the circuit. Referring to 
the figure, the measured pulsewidth is 1 ns and the 
peak-to-peak amplitude is approximately 160 mV. 
Figure 10 compares the measured power density 
spectra at the outputs of the third-derivative Gaussian 
pulse generator and the pulse shaper, respectively. As 
shown in the figure, the power density spectrum of 
the output pulse is complied with FCC emission 
mask, and the rejection level is nearly 35 dB at the 
5-GHz WLAN band.  
C. New design of folded-strip UWB antenna [7] 
The configuration of the proposed antenna is 
shown in Fig. 11. The antenna was fabricated on a 
1.6-mm FR4 epoxy substrate with dielectric constant 
εr = 4.4 and loss tangent tanδ = 0.022.  As shown in 
the figure, a forked-shape radiator is fed by a 50Ω 
microstrip line of length L3. The included angle α 
between the radiator and the ground plane primarily 
determines the in-band impedance matching and is 
given by 
  (a) 
 (b) 
Fig. 8 Photograph of the proposed ultrawideband pulse shaper. (a) Top 
view. (b) Bottom view. 
 
 
Fig. 9 Simulated and measured output waveforms of the pulse shaper.
  
Fig. 10 Comparison of the measured power density spectra at the 
outputs of the three-derivative Gaussian pulse generator and the pulse 
shaper. 
 
 Fig. 14 (a) Schematic diagram of the coupled lines. (b) Circuit 
layout for extracting the lumped equivalent circuit model in (c). (c) 
Lumped equivalent circuit model of the coupled-line section. (d) 
Equivalent circuit model of the proposed antenna. 
 
  
(a)     (b) 
Fig. 15 Comparisons of the input impedance of the one-port network 
in Fig. 4(b) to that of the lumped equivalent circuit model in Fig. 
4(c). (a) Resistance and (b) Reactance 
 
 
   
(a)     (b) 
Fig. 16 Comparisons between the simulated input admittance of the 
proposed antenna by HFSS and by the equivalent circuit model in 
Fig. 4(d). (a) Conductance. (b) Susceptance. 
 
and has limited tunability if one also wants to keep 
the center frequency of rejection band unchanged. It 
is, in essence, similar to the case of a first-order 
microwave bandstop filter.  
The antenna radiation patterns were measured in a 
7×3.2×3 m3 anechoic chamber in NTUST. The 
measurement was performed by an Agilent E8362B 
network analyzer along with NSI 2000 far-field 
measurement software. In the measurement the 
connecting cables were carefully shielded by 
absorbers to reduce the multiple-reflection 
interference. Figure 13(a) and (b) illustrates the 
measured radiation patterns in the xy- and xz- planes 
at the center frequencies, 4 and 8 GHz, of the UWB 
low and high bands. Here the UWB low band is 
referred to as the mandatory band from 3.1 to 5.1 
GHz whereas the UWB high band stands for the 
optional band from 5.85 to 10.6 GHz. The frequency 
band from 5.1 to 5.85 GHz, on the other hand, is not 
used in modern UWB systems due to the potential 
interference problem. The patterns in the xy-plane 
are quite omnidirectional as expected whereas in the 
xz-plane the radiation patterns remain roughly a 
dumbbell shape over the frequency band of interest. 
The cross-polarization levels are generally much 
lower than the co-polarization ones. The effect of 
antenna ground plane is also studied since its size is 
comparable to the radiator and contributes to the 
radiation. The ground plane size in the original 
design, i.e. L3 by W, is 11.5 by 30 mm2. It is 
observed through HFSS simulation that as L3 varies 
from 11.5 mm to 26.5 mm, the antenna input 
matching at the UWB mandatory band experiences 
somewhat degradations whereas the return loss at the 
optional band remains better than 10 dB. The ground 
plane width W, on the other hand, is found to have 
limited effects on the antenna matching when 
varying from 30 mm to 45 mm. The shapes of 
radiation patterns remain principally unchanged 
despite the variations in the antenna ground plane. 
Nevertheless, it is indeed noted that the 
dumbbell-shaped pattern in the xz-plane tilts 
gradually as L3 lengthens. Further discussion on the 
frequency dependence of the antenna radiation 
characteristics will be addressed in Section IV with 
the help of normalized antenna transfer functions. 
A lumped equivalent circuit model is discussed for 
the proposed antenna. Conceptually, the coupled-line 
section in the forked-shape radiator can be 
represented by the schematic diagram in Fig. 14(a). 
In the figure Zoe and γe are the even-mode 
characteristic impedance and complex propagation 
constant, respectively, of the coupled lines and Zoo 
and γo are the corresponding odd-mode parameters. 
For correct modeling of the folded strip, the coupled 
lines in Fig. 14(a) are connected at one end and 
open-circuited in one of the two lines at the other end. 
The input impedance of the resultant one-port 
network can be readily expressed by [8] 
 
,
1 ( tanh    - coth     )
2in CL oo o oe e
Z Z Zγ γ= l l . (5) 
It is evident from (5) that as the length of the coupled 
lines approximating one-quarter wavelength long, it 
behaves like a parallel resonator which gives rise to 
the band-notched filtering property at the targeted 
rejection band. 
However, the antenna modeling using the 
schematic diagram in Fig. 14(a) is not as 
straightforward as expected owing to the difficulties 
in accurately estimating the radiation loss of the 
coupled lines in the forked-shape radiator. To tackle 
this problem, in this paper we attempt to first deal 
 Fig. 21 Simulated and measured return losses of the proposed 
antenna. 
 
(a)     (b) 
Fig. 22 Measured radiation patterns in the yz-plane at 
(a) 4 GHz and (b) 8 GHz. 
 
(a)     (b) 
Fig. 23 Measured radiation patterns in the yz-plane at 
(a) 4 GHz and (b) 8 GHz. 
 
 
(a)     (b) 
Fig.24 Measured gain responses of the proposed antenna at 
(a) o  o  o  o0 ,  90 ,  180 , -90θ =  (b)  o  o  o  o45 ,  135 ,  -135 , -45θ = .  
 
antenna proposed in [7], and can be represented by 
the same equivalent circuit model in Fig. 17(b). In 
the circuit model the pair of folded strips in the 
fork-shaped radiator can be represented by two 
lumped parallel lossy RLC resonators. The flared 
metal plate between the folded strips and the 
microstrip feed line behaves similar to a 
quarter-wavelength transformer, and can be modeled 
as a pair of J-inverters. The wideband nature of the 
antenna, on the other hand, can be readily accounted 
for by a constant radiation conductance Grad in the 
model with Grad = 0.02 mho. If necessary, the 
procedure discussed in [7] can be used to extract the 
element values of the lumped circuit model in Fig. 17 
(b) as well. 
To explore the concept of multi-resonator loaded 
band-notched ultrawideband antenna, in this paper 
we discuss a new antenna design by introducing an 
extra pair of folded strips to the antenna in Fig. 17 (a). 
The antenna configuration is illustrated in Fig. 18. As 
shown in the figure, the new design lies in the 
xy-plane with its normal direction parallel to the z 
axis. The antenna is symmetric about its centerline, 
and consists of a microstrip feed line, a truncated 
ground plane, a flared metal plate, and two pairs of 
the folded strips. It can be shown that the folded strip 
behaves like a parallel LC tank [7], and can be 
physically realized by connecting the top and bottom 
metal foils by rows of via holes. The radius of the via 
hole is 0.2 mm. The coupling between the metal foils 
provides the necessary capacitive loading whereas 
the strip itself contributes to the inductance value of 
the resonator. For the sake of simplicity, in the 
following discussions the two pairs of resonators are 
referred to as the exterior and the interior resonators, 
and the subscripts “e” and “i” are used to distinguish 
the parameters associated with the exterior and 
interior resonators, respectively. 
To explain the complex behavior of the antenna, 
here an equivalent circuit model is illustrated in Fig. 
19. In the discussion in this paragraph the subscripts 
are neglected for the sake of brevity. Referring to the 
circuit model, each folded strip can be represented by 
a lumped parallel lossy RLC resonator. The 
resonance frequency of the resonator can be readily 
controlled by adjusting the equivalent inductance and 
capacitance values, i.e. Leq and Ceq, of the resonator, 
which are in turn determined by the geometric 
parameters of the folded strip. As shown in Fig. 18, 
the area of the metal plate on the bottom layer, i.e. 
Lcap × Wcap, preliminary determines the value of the 
capacitive loading. On the other hand, the insets on 
the radiating strip on the top layer principally act as 
the inductive loading, and have the ability to 
fine-tune the inductance value of the resonator. It 
should be aware that as the areas of the insets (Lind by 
Wind) become larger, the capacitive loading of the 
resonator will decrease accordingly. It implies that 
there exists a nonlinear dependence between the 
areas of the inductive insets and the resonance 
frequency of the resonator. The equivalent resistance 
Req, meanwhile, accounts for the conduction loss, the 
dielectric loss, as well as the parasitic radiation loss 
of the folded strip, and can be used to determine the 
quality factor of the resonator.  
In the meantime, as shown in Fig. 18, the tapered 
profile of the flared metal plate between the interior 
and exterior folded strips is described by an equation 
 Fig. 10 The simulated and measure return losses of the 
antenna design for compensating the effects of the ground 
plane with WGND = 44 mm. 
 o 90θ =  the gain suppression at the center 
frequency of the rejection band can be more than 20 
dB. Moreover, owing to the slight shifts in the center 
frequencies of the notch peaks with respect to the 
reception angle, the rejection band may split into two 
individual ones at certain directions, e.g. o 135θ = . 
Nevertheless, the band-notched phenomenon still 
remains acceptable in most of the reception 
directions. Further investigation with the help of the 
multilayered printed circuit broad fabrication process 
is currently under investigation to mitigate the spatial 
dependence of the gain responses at the notched 
frequencies. The result will be discussed in a future 
publication. Despite the spatial dependence of the 
rejection band, the experimental results manifest that 
the proposed design demonstrates bandstop-filter-like 
response with good frequency selectivity at the 
targeted rejection band.  
Finally, I t has been mentioned that the proposed 
antenna is very sensitive to the truncated ground 
plane used in the design. Accordingly, it is necessary 
to discuss the effects of the ground plane in greater 
detail. With the help of the full-wave simulation 
solver HFSS, we observe that the behavior of the 
rejection band can be dramatically affected by the 
variations of the truncated ground plane. For 
demonstration purpose here an example is illustrated 
in this subsection with the width of the ground plane 
WGND being widened by 10 mm. It is observed 
through simulation that as the ground plane size 
becomes larger the notch peaks may be further apart 
and tend to split into two individual rejection bands. 
To tackle this problem, the antenna parameters for 
bandwidth controllability in Section III.B can be 
applied to fine-tune the antenna response. By 
relocating the exterior pair of folded strips with a 
distance of Wg,e = 12.8 mm, well-behaved 
band-notched response with good frequency 
selectivity at the WLAN band can be readily restored. 
The simulated and measure return losses of the 
re-tuned antenna design are depicted in Fig. 25. 
Fairly good agreement between the results can be 
again observed. Meanwhile, it is also noted from the 
figure that the impedance matching at the UWB high 
band can be substantially improved as the size of the 
ground plane becomes larger. With this illustration, 
we can therefore conclude that the nonideal effects of 
the antenna ground plane on the desired rejection 
characteristics can be simply compensated by 
applying the tuning parameters discussed in previous 
subsection. 
 
III. 總結 
本計畫於執行期間內，成功完成新型脈衝產生器、
缺陷接地結構、帶拒濾波器、超寬頻塑波器、折疊
型超寬頻天線、多重共振器負載超寬頻天線等等設
計，目前獲得刊登之SCI論文共兩篇，另有兩篇SCI
期刊論文在審查中。此外，本計畫亦完成了新型微
波取樣器的設計與驗證，但因為申請專利之議題，
目前暫無法公開說明。總體論述，本計畫之研究成
果頗為豐富，對於第一次執行國科會研究計畫的申
請人，無異是一大鼓舞，億期待未來繼續努力精
進！ 
參考文獻 
[1] J. Han and C. Nguyen, A new ultra-wideband, ultra-short 
monocycle pulse generator with reduced ringing, IEEE 
Microwave and Wireless Component Letter 12 (2002), 
206-208. 
[2] T. G. Ma*, C. J. Wu, P. K. Cheng, and C. F. Chou, “An 
ultrawideband monocycle pulse generator with dual resistive 
loaded stunt stubs,” Microw. Optical Technology. Lett., vol. 
49, no.2, pp. 459-462, Fed. 2007. 
[3] C. F. Chou and T. G. Ma*, “A meandered V-sickle slotted 
ground structure and its applications to ultrawideband pulse 
shaper,” IEEE Microv. wireless Compon. Lett., submitted for 
publication.  
[4] D. J. Woo, T. K. Lee, J. W. Lee, C. S. Pyo, W. K. Choi, 
“Novel U-slot and V-slot DGSs for bandstop filter with 
improved Q factor,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 
54, pp. 2840-2847, June 2006. 
[5] D.J. Woo, T.K. Lee, “Suppression of harmonics in Wilkinson 
power divider using dual-band rejection by asymmetric 
DGS,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 53 , pp. 
2139-2144, June 2005. 
[6] J. S. Hong, M. J. Lancaster, Microstrip Filters for 
RF/Microwave Application, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2001. 
[7] T. G. Ma* and S. J. Wu, “Ultrawideband band-notched folded 
strip monopole antenna,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., 
vol. 55, pp. 2473-2479, Sep. 2007. 
[8] G. L. Matthaei, L. Young, E. M. T. Jones, Microwave Filters, 
Impedance-matching networks, and Coupling Structure, 
Artech House, 1980. 
[9] T. G. Ma*, R. C. Hua and C. F. Chou, "Design of a 
multi-resonator loaded band-rejected ultrawideband planar 
monopole antenna with controllable notched bandwidth," 
IEEE trans. Antennas Propagat., submitted for publication. 
[10] T. G. Ma* and S. J. Wu, “A new band-notched U-shape folded 
monopole for UWB applications,” in 2006 IEEE AP-S Int. 
Symp. Dig., Albuquerque, NM, July 2006, pp. 1643-1646. 
 
一、參加會議經過 
首先感謝  貴會的出國差旅費補助，俾使敝人在經濟壓力負擔較輕的前提下，連續
參與本年度由 IEEE Microwave Theory and Techniques學會所主辦、每年度國際上最大型
微波研討會 - 2007 國際微波年會(International Microwave Symposium, IMS)，以及由 
IEEE Antennas and Propagation 學會所主辦，每年度國際上最大型天線與傳播研討會 
(2007 International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation, APS)。本年度最令人津津樂道
的莫過於這是電磁波領域兩大會議首度假同一地點舉辦（夏威夷），且 AP-S還特地將會
議時間由以往的七月中上旬，提前至六月中旬，俾使與會者可以同時參與兩項盛會，聆
聽整個電波領域最新的發展趨勢及技術成就，實屬百年難得一見之機會。 
因此機緣難得，敝人自去(95)年暑假開始即著手與研究所同學兢兢業業，積極進行
研究工作，終於順利將論文即時完成，並分別投稿之 IMS及 APS會議，獲得接受。其中
IMS會議之接受率僅 45~50%左右，扣除海報張貼及十分鐘口頭報告的短論文，能夠獲得
二十分鐘口頭報告時間的論文僅 25%左右。此次敝人與楊成發教授所共同指導之碩士班
學生王釗偉所投稿的論文：『Miniaturized branch-line coupler with harmonic suppression for 
RFID applications using artificial transmission lines』，因具有獨特之創見，獲得 IMS會議之
20 分鐘口頭報告之機會，實屬不易。至於 APS會議方面，敝人今年亦有兩篇論文發表，
並獲邀擔任壁報議程 Session IF 208之主席。 
 懷著能夠連續聆聽國際最頂尖之微波及天線傳播會議的興奮心情，以及對夏威夷熱
帶島國的美好憧憬，敝人與王釗偉同學於 6/3 下午搭乘華航班機飛往檀香山，歷時十個
小時抵達，同班機遇到許多微波領域的前輩老師如陳俊雄老師、王暉老師、呂學士老師、
孟慶宗老師、黃天偉老師等等，難得微波領域的研究學者共聚一堂。夏威夷當地時間與
台灣之時差為 18 小時，因此抵達時間為清晨 6:00 左右。由於無法立即進入下榻旅社，
華航與旅行社貼心的為我們設計了半日的 city tour，先後參觀珍珠港及檀香山市區，為此
趟夏威夷學習之旅拉開序幕，直到下午三點方住進旅社。 
 次日為夏威夷時間六月四日，當日為 IMS會議所安排之子會議 RFIC會議的全日議
程，RFIC目前雖不尚是敝人的研究領域，但一直是自我期許邁向的研究方向，也是時代
之潮流所趨，因此能夠參與此一會議，對自我的成長有相當的意義。敝人與隨行之王釗
偉同學共參加  RM01B: Pulsed UWB transceiver, RM03D transmitter linearization 
techniques以及 RM04A: RFID等議程，並抽空前往展覽會場參觀。由於商業展覽傳統上
一直是 IMS會議中相當重要的一環，透過與展覽廠商的交流，除了可以瞭解目前市場上
產品研發、儀器設備、元件更迭的最新狀況，亦可獲得許多寶貴的資訊。此次我們除對
於量測設備的廠商如 Agilent, Tektronix, Anritsu以及模擬軟體如 Ansoft, IE3D等持續關注
外，另外也肩負著尋找與永奕科技所合作之 RFID 建教計畫所需的電路元件的任務。透
過不斷的詢問與交流，我們獲得了許多寶貴的資訊。當日晚間雖有Microwave Journal 所
舉辦之 reception 活動，但身體卻已經敵不過時差的呼喚，早早回到旅館休息，並準備
次日下午的論文發表。 
 次日（週二）上午首先參加 IMS 的 plenary speech，該演講係介紹寬頻通訊的未來
趨勢，演講者皆為 Qualcomm 的副總裁，對於瞭解目前工業界最新的演進脈動有著相當
大的幫助。我們的演講安排在下午的議程：Session TU3B: Hybrids and Coupler I，由於這
次是王釗偉同學第一次出國報告論文，因此他格外緊張也格外慎重。此篇論文主要是講
述利用一種新型人造傳輸線進行微波電路縮小化實現的方式，該形式傳輸線的面積縮小
即與未婚妻展開一整天的歐胡島環島之行，沿著海岸公路，波濤時而洶湧、時而平靜、
海水隨著底層物質時而蔚藍時而碧綠，好不壯觀。至於著名的大風口、恐龍灣、北海岸、
日落沙灘，更是不能錯過的景點，也算是飽遊了當地的風土人情，只可惜時間不夠，來
不及到波里尼西亞文化村探索文化脈絡！ 
 次日清晨是 APS議程的首日，上午前往會場完成註冊手續後，隨即遇見幾位久未謀
面的資深研究學者，例如新加坡 I2R 的陳志寧教授、美國 IBM的 Duixian Liu博士等，
這兩位都是 2003年敝人還在攻讀博士期間就已經認識的知名學者。陳教授在新加坡 I2R 
擔任資深經理，並有數本寬頻天線設計的英文著作。劉博士雖在 IBM工作，但一直積極
參與學術界活動，並擔任 IEEE天線與傳播期刊的副編審。這兩位前輩在敝人攻讀博士
期間曾給予數次珍貴的指導，也因此建立起良好的友誼。一些許久未見的台灣學界前輩，
例如張知難教授、陳文山教授、林淑芸教授、陳富強教授等等，也在這難得的機會增進
了彼此的交流。此外，還曾與一些來自國外的前輩或朋友交流，例如美國 GeoTech 的 
Papapolymerou 教授、來在英國的 Dr. Metha、來自中國大陸北京，現任職於美國 Intel 的 
Halen Pan博士等。其中 Dr. Metha 係今年三月在參加 2007 PIERS in Beijing 時結識，當
時即相談甚歡，此次見面自然十分高興。由於 2008年 ISAP會議即將由台灣亞東技術學
院的張道治教授所主辦，因此敝人也當面邀請他屆時前來台灣參加會議並來校演講，同
時亦可陪伴他欣賞台灣美好的風光！ 
 當日上午參與 Session 115: Reconfigurable antennas in MIMO systems，其中由普渡大
學與韓國Yonsei 大學所共同發表的論文，利用 SPST開關設計可改變波束寬的塊狀(patch)
天線，十分有趣，當場敝人亦提出問題與演講者作進一步交流。此外，來自 U.C. Irvine，
該議程的最後一位演講者，因為過於緊張及不適應投影機的強烈燈光竟昏厥於演講台
上，而該篇論文只得由共同作者完成報告，也算是前所未見的特殊狀況了（附記：慌亂
間為了擋住投影機的燈光，竟燒壞了一件Armani的襯衫！）。當日下午參與了 Session 136: 
RFID Antennas and Techniques議程。由於敝人加入台灣科大服務後，即參與楊成發教授
所主持與永豐餘集團合作的大型建教合作案，擔任共同主持人，因此對於這方面的最新
研究訊息自然不可放過。但可惜這方面的論文大多涉及商業機密，往往令演講者無法暢
所欲言或回覆問題，也算是非常可惜的事情了！ 
 敝人本次於APS會議所發表之論文均在禮拜二。其中由王威翔同學報告的新型RFID
金屬標籤設計係安排在 Special Session 202: RFID tag antennas，該議程由陳志寧教授主
持，針對射頻辨識系統的標籤進行充分的論文發表與討論。王同學所發表之論文係永豐
餘計畫的研究成果，該研究並以申請專利，永豐餘亦正評估其實用性，在會場亦引起不
少學者前輩的興趣。敝人本次另一篇由華人慶同學所作的論文則安排在當日中午的 IF 
218 Poster Session，敝人並同時擔任該議程的 Session Chair。該論文主要係利用前述 IMS
會議所發表之新型人造傳輸線，設計平面型 quasi-Yagi 天線的共平面帶線餽入電路，該
天線設計於 5GHz，10 dB頻寬可達 2GHz，前後比在 14 dB 以上，但尺寸僅 30*30mm2。
只可惜該論文在投稿時來不及完成實作設計，因此被列入壁報論文，算是不小的遺憾！
中午的午宴與壁報議程是同時在花園廣場舉行的，坐在舒適的開放空間享受綠茵與透過
樹葉灑落的陽光，並認真討論嚴肅的電磁問題，也算是一次特殊的經驗了！我們的論文
在會場中引起不少學者的觀摩與討論，我刻意安排華同學回答部份的問題，藉以磨練他
的英語表達與溝通能力，也算是他此行中最重要的訓練！ 
 當日下午先參加 Session 243: Reconfigurable array antennas，並由三點多提前離開會
