In this research project we developed test
solutions for the above testing problems in scan-
based test structures. The topics including test
pattern generation for transition fault, RTL test
synthesis, test data compression, and low-power
test vector selection. The ultimate goal of this
research is to develop high quality test vectors at
the early design cycle..
二、計畫的緣由與目的
In the past, the semiconductor industry paid
little attention to at-speed test techniques.
However, decreasing feature sizes and increasing
clock speeds have combined to alter the defect
effect dramatically. Recent evidence indicates
that delay-inducing defects can no longer be
ignored nor go untested. For circuits designed
beyond 130nm technologies, the transition fault
is considered essential to achieve acceptable
defect level.
The detection of delay fault requires
at-speed test techniques, which create signal
transitions to be captured at normal speed.
Structural test techniques offer a viable
alternative for at-speed testing. However, there
are many complicating factors when moving
from relatively slow scan-based tests for stuck-at
faults to testing for delay faults. Design methods
such as multiple clock domains, mixed negative
and positive edge clocking, and other design
trick, all pose challenges to the implementation
of successful, high coverage delay tests.
Designers now commonly make use of
computer-aided design tools and hardware
description languages to represent their designs
at higher levels of abstraction. High-level test
synthesis refers to an area in which DFT,
synthesis for testability, and BIST are performed
at the higher levels, i.e., register-transfer level
(RTL) and behavior level, of the design
hierarchy. Evidence suggests that high-level test
synthesis can lead to a substantial decrease in the
test generation time, test application time, and
area/ performance overheads, while at the same
time increasing the fault coverage. Besides,
dealing with testability problems at the higher
levels also reduces the number of design
iterations, which is important for time-to-market.
Test patterns considered by high-level test
synthesis techniques are transferred through
normal datapath, which are easier to be applied
at-speed. Thus, high-level testing does not need
the complicated clock controls used for
scan-based at-speed tests, which is a great
advantage. However, all the high-level test
synthesis techniques that can be found in the
literature may not be applicable to delay fault
testing. Although most of the high-level testing
techniques are not designed for a specific
gate-level fault model in mind, in general they
consider one test pattern at a time, which
restricts the two-pattern tests that are required for
delay test.
In this research project we addressed some
of the high-level test synthesis targeted for
transition fault detection.
2.1 Fault Model
Physical defects that increase the signal
propagation delays in the circuit are modeled as
delay faults. Two general types of delay fault
models, the gate delay fault model and the path
delay fault model have been used for modeling
delay defects. Although the path delay fault
model is generally considered to be more
realistic and effective in modeling physical delay
defects, it is often difficult to use in practice due
to the huge number of paths in the circuit.
Therefore, the gate delay fault model is more
feasible for large circuits. The most commonly
used gate delay fault model is the transition fault
model [1]. According to this model, every line in
the circuit is associated with two transition faults:
a slow-to-rise fault (rising fault) and a
slow-to-fall fault (falling fault). It is often
assumed that the extra delay caused by a
transition fault on a line is sufficiently large such
that the delay of every path passing through this
line exceeds the maximum allowed value. Two
requirements are necessary and sufficient for a
two-pattern test (V1, V2) to be a test of a
transition fault f on line l.
(1) When the circuit inputs are changed from V1
with this problem, two topics have to be
addressed. First, we modify TFTPG so that
unspecified bits (don’t-care bits) are included in
the test vectors whenever it is possible. In this
way, V1 and V2 can be packed in a single scan
session. However, not all conflicts in test pairs
can be solved in this way. In order to remove
these conflicts and thus improve transition fault
coverage under LOS, we developed a layout-
aware scan chain reordering technique.
Traditional scan chain reordering methods only
consider the logic aspect of the scan chain
structure; as a result, the overall scan chain
length can be ten times longer than the minimum
length scan chain. In contrast, our method
achieves 100% test coverage while the overall
routing length is about 1.5x to 2.5x of the
minimum-length scan chain. The experimental
results are shown in Table I [8].
The second result of this research project is
high-level design for delay fault testability. To
detect delay faults, two test patterns must be
applied in consecutive cycles; however, this
requirement may not be achievable for any given
data-flow graph (DFG). Consider the partial
DFG shown in Fig. 1. The addition operation is
not 100% delay fault testable, since its two
inputs are not 100% controllable in two
consecutive cycles.
Fig. 1. A partial DFG
A possible solution to the aforementioned
problem is to add dummy operations in a given
DFG to force the inputs to a module to be fully
controllable in two consecutive cycles. This
approach may slightly increase overall circuit
size; however, the final circuit will be 100%
delay fault testable. For some special circuits
with low-power design, there will be no
hardware penalty.
In this part, we have finished two jobs.
Since in this case we need to conduct sequential
fault simulation, it is not possible to use parallel
pattern simulator like TFSIM. Thus, we have
developed a parallel-fault simulator for the
transition fault to execute multi-cycle fault
simulation. The second result of the project is a
synthesis-for-testability tool that modifies a
given DFG to make it 100% delay fault testable.
四、結論與討論
This research project studies the delay test
issues in scan-based architecture and functional
test. The detection of delay faults is relatively
difficult, and thus a more simplified version, the
transition fault, is used in research community as
well as commercial tools. The results of this
project should be useful for the design of reliable
and testable integrated circuits.
The scan chain reordering for LOS test has
been accepted by a conference [8], and the
Journal version of this paper has been submitted.
We are preparing a manuscript for high-level
design for testability, and this paper will be
submitted in the coming months.
五、參考文獻
1. J. A. Waicukauski, E. Lindbloom, B. K. Rosen, and V.
S. Iyengar, “Transition Fault Simulation”, IEEE
Design and Test, pp. 32-38, April 1987.
2. P. A. Thaker, M. E. Zaghloul, and M. B. Amin,
“Study of correlation of testability aspects of RTL
description and resulting structural implementations,”
in Proc. Int’l Conf. VLSI Design, pp. 256-259, Jan.
1999.
3. T. Thomas, P. Vishakantantaiah, and J. A. Abraham,
“Impact of behavioral modifications for testability,” in 
Proc. IEEE VLSI Test Symp., pp. 427-432,1994.
4. S. Bhatia, N. K. Jha, “Genesis: a Behavioral Synthesis
for Hierarchical Testability,” in Proc. ED&TC, pp.
272-276, 1994.
5. K. A. Ockunzzi and C. Papachristou, “Test strategies
for BIST at the algorithmic and register-transfer
levels,”in Proc. DAC, pp. 65–70, 2001.
6. S. Ohtake, S. Nagai, H. Wada, and H. Fujiwara, “A
DFT method for RTL circuits to achieve complete
fault efficiency based on fixed-control testability,”in
*
+
i
