






































































































表 Y04 2
一、參加會議經過 
本次2009年IEEE 機器人與自動化國際研討會(ICRA 2009)於98年5月12日至17
日在日本神戶市(Kobe, Japan)舉行。ICRA 2009國際研討會之主題為”Robotics and 
IRT (Information and Robotics Technology) for Livable Societies.＂本次會議共有從46
個國家，1626篇技術論文(Technical Papers)及36段長影片(Long Video)投稿，審查結
果僅696篇技術論文及16段長影片獲接受於本次大會發表，接受率分別僅約42.8%及
44.4%。 
本次大會於98年5月12日、13日及17日共排定有26個機器人與自動化相關之
Workshops與Tutorials，並舉辦三場全體出席的大會演講(Plenary Talks)、一場科學
論壇(Science Forum)、一場工業論壇(Industrial Forum)與一場公民論壇(Citizen’s 
Forum)。本次大會也利用5月14日至16日3天時間，於同一時間分13個平行場次
(Parallel Tracks)，共有149場次(Sessions)，將所有論文利用口頭方式公開發表。本人
在本次會議發表論文乙篇「發展一個產品品質錯誤偵測機制(Developing a Product 
Quality Fault Detection Scheme)」，被安排於5月14日下午工廠自動化(Factory 
Automation)場次報告，論文資料如下： 
(中文題目：發展一個產品品質錯誤偵測機制) 
Yi-Ting Huang, Fan-Tien Cheng, and Min-Hsiung Hung, “Developing a Product Quality 
Fault Detection Scheme,” in Proceedings of 2009 IEEE International Conference on 
Robotics and Automation, Kobe, Japan, pp. 927-932, May 12-17, 2009. 
 
 
Abstract—In current semiconductor and TFT-LCD factories, 
periodic sampling is commonly adopted to monitor the stability 
of manufacturing processes and the quality of products (or 
workpieces). As for those non-sampled workpieces, their quality 
is usually monitored by such as a 
fault-detection-and-classification (FDC) server. However, this 
method may fail to detect defected products. For example, a 
workpiece with all the individual manufacturing process 
parameters being in-spec may still result in out-of-spec product 
quality. Under this circumstance, unless this certain defected 
workpiece is selected for sampling by chance, it cannot be 
detected by simply monitoring the manufacturing process 
parameters collected from the production equipment. To solve 
the abovementioned problem, this research proposes a product 
quality fault detection scheme (FDS), which utilizes the 
classification and regression tree to implement a model for 
identifying the relationship between process parameters and 
out-of-spec products. Through this model, each set of normal 
manufacturing process parameters can be real-time and on-line 
examined to detect failure or defected products. 
Index Terms—Fault Detection Scheme, Classification and 
Regression Tree, Virtual Metrology. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
n current semiconductor and TFT-LCD factories, 
periodic sampling is commonly adopted to monitor the 
stability of manufacturing processes and the quality of 
products (or workpieces). As for those non-sampled 
workpieces, their quality is usually monitored by such as a 
fault-detection-and-classification (FDC) server. However, 
this method may fail to detect defected products. For example, 
a workpiece with all the individual manufacturing process 
parameters being in-spec may still result in out-of-spec 
product quality. Under this circumstance, unless this certain 
defected workpiece is selected for sampling by chance, it 
cannot be detected by simply monitoring the manufacturing 
process parameters collected from the production equipment. 
A TFT-LCD photolithography process is taken as the 
illustrative example. Fig. 1(a) presents the real metrology data 
of some selected samples and their control limits (upper 
control limit (UCL) = 24, lower-control-limit (LCL) = 21). 
As shown in Fig. 1, we can easily observe 13 out-of-spec 
(OOS) metrology data, in samples No. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 
12, 14, 15, 24 and 70, respectively. However, further 
investigations show that all the 24 corresponding process data 
of these 13 samples are within the specifications, as shown in 
 
1. The authors would like to thank the National Science Council of the 
Republic of China for financially supporting this research under 
contract No: NSC96-2622-E-006-043. This work is Taiwan R.O.C. and 
U.S.A. Patents Pending. 
2. The corresponding author (e-mail: tinahuang@super.ime.ncku.edu.tw). 
Fig. 1(b), where only x1, x4, x16, x20 of those 24 corresponding 
process data are displayed. 
To resolve the problem mentioned above, this research 
proposes a product quality fault detection scheme (FDS), 
which utilizes the normal process data collected from 
production equipment to perform on-line and real-time 
product quality monitoring. When an OOS workpiece is 
detected, the proposed scheme will alarm the process 
engineers to perform subsequent analysis or measurement of 
the failure or defected products. 
To implement the FDS, first we need to collect 
corresponding sets of historical metrology and process data to 
build a fault detection model (FD model). Note that the 
collected metrology data must include both in-spec and 
out-of-spec ones for building a complete model. Besides, the 
collected process and metrology data must be preprocessed to 
ensure their data quality for avoiding deterioration in the FD 
model. 
To on-line and real-time evaluate the quality of the 
collected process and metrology data for the FDS, the 
automatic data quality evaluation methods proposed by the 
authors [1] are adopted in this research. 
Many studies related to product and process quality 
evaluations have been carried out in the past [2], [3], [4], [5], 
Developing a Product Quality Fault Detection Scheme1 
Yi-Ting Huang2, Student Member, IEEE, Fan-Tien Cheng, Fellow, IEEE, and 
Min-Hsiung Hung, Senior Member, IEEE 
I 
y
(a) Examples for OOS Product Metrology Data. 
 
(b) Selected Process Data Corresponding to the Metrology Data Shown in (a).
 
Fig. 1 Product Quality OOS Example. 
2009 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
Kobe International Conference Center
Kobe, Japan, May 12-17, 2009
978-1-4244-2789-5/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE 927
 2)  Data Quality Evaluation 
After collecting enough number of normal historical data 
sets, the initial DQIX and DQIy models can be constructed. 
Since the standardized process data generated by the DQIX 
model must be utilized to create the first DQIy model, the 
DQIX model should be built first [1]. The DQIX and DQIy 
models are summarized as follows. Firstly, principal 
component analysis (PCA) is applied to analyze all the 
collected equipment process data; then Euclidean distance is 
utilized to unify all the principal components into a single 
index denoted process data quality index (DQIX) for 
evaluating the quality of process data. Secondly, adaptive 
resonance theory 2 (ART2) and normalized variability (NV) 
are applied to define the metrology data quality index (DQIy) 
for appraising the quality of metrology data. The thresholds 
of both DQIX and DQIy are also defined accordingly. 
3) Fault Detection Model 
The FD model is created after the DQIX and DQIy models, 
since the data used for constructing the FD model need to be 
checked by DQIX and DQIy first. To begin with, the 
metrology data (y) are divided in to 3 quality classes 
according to the product quality control limits, i.e. the upper 
control limit (UCL) and the lower control limit (LCL). The 3 
quality classes are: (1) Class 0: the metrology data (y) is 
within the control limits (yLCL and yUCL); (2) Class -1: 
the metrology data (y) is lower than LCL (y<LCL); and (3) 
Class 1: the metrology data (y) exceeds UCL (y>UCL). 
Next, the quality classes with the corresponding process 
data are utilized by the classification and regression trees 
(CART) [12] for constructing the FD model. The FD model 
can discover process-data combination rules that are 
influential to the quality of products. Also, through the 
procedure mentioned above, the process data are classified in 
to a tree-like structural detection model. 
A CART is a binary decision tree which adopts the GINI 
Index (IBM Intelligent Miner) as the branch criteria [12]. 
Each parent node in a CART can be split into 2 child nodes, 
and the data set is partitioned into mutually exclusive 
sub-datasets in each split. The more homogeneous the data in 
a sub-dataset are, the more samples we can find in a class. 
The constructed FD model must be able to carry out 
on-line and real-time product quality detection and maintain 
90% and above accuracy by avoiding too many false alarms 
(FAs) and/or miss detections (MDs). For the semiconductor 
and TFT-LCD industries, MDs are much more serious than 
FAs. Therefore, a practical FD mechanism should have a low 
MD rate. Considering this requirement, a re-training & 
pruning scheme (RT&P scheme) is designed in the FD model. 
The RT&P scheme adopts the concept of the minimum-cost 
for pruning the relatively insignificant rules in a model tree to 
avoid model overfitting. In the FD model, the RT&P scheme 
mainly functions to prune off leaf nodes with a few samples 
to reduce FAs. However, over-pruning of the model tree 
might also increase the frequency of MD. Therefore, the 
RT&P scheme sets up the cost for each error detection: MD 
costs 2, FA costs 1, and correction detection (CD) costs 0. 
Next, the RT&P scheme computes the cost of the model trees 
using the latest data for modeling and a10-fold 
cross-validation [11]. The cost of the model trees are 
evaluated through the combination and arrangement to find 
the best number of leaf nodes of pruning which has the 
minimum-cost. Finally, construct a new FD model by the best 
number of leaf nodes. The above are the procedures for 
implementing the first FD model. The on-line re-training and 
pruning procedures of FD model are presented in the “RT&P 
Scheme” block in Fig. 3 and detailed below. 
Step 1. Collect a corresponding set of process and metrology 
data, which must be examined by DQIX and DQIy 
respectively and confirmed as normal data (XG, yG). 
Then, convert the metrology data yG into the 
corresponding class values (-1, 0, or 1) and send the 
metrology data class values associated with the 
process data (XG) to the FD model.  
Step 2.  Calculate the cost of the tree model using the latest 
data for modeling and by 10-fold cross-validation. 
Step 3.  Evaluate the cost of the model trees through the 
combination and arrangement to find the best number 
of leaf nodes of pruning which has the minimum-cost. 
Step 4. Construct a new FD model base on the best number of 
leaf nodes. 
Step 5.  Replace the old FD model in the FDS with the newly 
constructed one.  
III. ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE 
A piece of photolithography equipment in a TFT-LCD 
factory in Taiwan is taken as the illustrative example. This 
experiment involves 315 sets of corresponding real 
metrology data and process data collected during the latest 6 
months. Among those 315 data sets, the first 119 sets are used 
to construct the FD model, while the rest 196 sets are applied 
for on-line and real-time verification of the FDS. Furthermore, 
the first 119 data sets include 8 sets of y>UCL (Class 1) data, 
Fig. 3  Re-Training and Pruning (RT&P) Scheme in FDS. 
929
 validation is shown in Fig. 6. Figure 6 indicates that the 
lowest cost happens when the number of leaf nodes is equal to 
four (4). Therefore, the first FD model of Case 2 (with 
pruning), which has only four rules, is shown in Fig. 7 and 
Table 3.Observing Table 1, it is clear that the re-training 
mode can reduce FAs significantly when comparing with the 
free-running mode (Case 1 vs. Case 3 and Case 2 vs. Case 4). 
Besides, the pruning scheme can further enhance the 
detection accuracy (Case 1 vs. Case 2 and Case 3 vs. Case 4). 
In conclusion, Case 4 is the most accurate one (with 99.5% 
accuracy) and, therefore, will be adopted for deployment. 
IV. DISCUSSION  
The FDS is capable of detecting OOS products with 
normal process parameters. Therefore, it can be applied to 
perform on-line real-time inspection of product failures and 
achieve workpiece-to-workpiece (W2W) fault inspection. 
From the illustrative example presented in Section 3, we can 
conclude that with enough sample data for modeling, the 
inspection accuracy of FDS is greater than 90%. Nevertheless, 
the FDS is unable to output a product quality conjecture value. 
On the other hand, the virtual metrology system (VMS) 
proposed by the authors [1], [15], [16], [17] can on-line 
real-time conjecture the virtual metrology (VM) value of a 
workpiece and generate the reliance index (RI) and global 
similarity index (GSI) for indicating the reliance level of the 
corresponding VM values. However, the VMS cannot detect 
OOS products with normal process parameters.  
If the FDS and VMS can be combined as shown in Fig. 8, 
then the two schemes can take from the long and add to the 
short such that the overall detection accuracy of abnormal and 
OOS products can be enhanced. Observing Fig. 8, when a set 
of process data enters the VMS, the DQIX will check whether 
it is a normal process data. If it is a normal process data, it will 
be forwarded to the FDS for on-line and real-time product 
quality evaluation. Meanwhile, through the conjecture model 
of VMS, the phrase-I VM conjecture value (VMI) along with 
the accompanying RI/GSI values are also generated. In this 
way, the un-sampled workpieces’ product quality can be 
inspected and the corresponding VM values with RI/GSI can 
also be conjectured by adopting the FDS+VMS scheme. 
Moreover, on receiving the real metrology data, the DQIy 
will be applied to check whether it is normal. If the collected 
metrology data is normal, it will be sent with its 
corresponding process data to the FDS and VMS for tuning 
and re-training purposes. Also, the Phrase-II VM conjecture 
value (VMII) along with its RI/GSI values can be generated to 
enhance the conjecture accuracy of VM. 
By applying the illustrative example mentioned in Section 
3, the effects of the FDS+VMS scheme is analyzed and 
presented in Fig. 9. The pink blocks indicate where the OOS 
products occur. Observing Fig. 9, we can see that VMI 
approximately follows the actual metrology value with some 
 
Fig. 7 The First FD Model of Cases 2 and 4 (with Pruning).
 
Fig. 6 The Cost Curve of the First FD Model with Pruning by 10-Fold 
Cross Validation. 
TABLE III 
THE FIRST FD MODEL OF CASES 2 AND 4 CONSIST OF 4 RULES 
Rule 1 If x22 < 21.3 and x9 < 13.95 then Class = -1 
Rule 2 If x22 < 21.3 and x9   13.95 and x5 < 22.9 then Class = 1 
Rule 3 If x22 < 21.3 and x9   13.95 and x5   22.9 then Class = 0 
Rule 4 If x22   21.3 then Class = 0 
 
Fig. 8  Integrated Scheme with FDS + VMS. 
931
表 Y04 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           98 年 9 月 26 日 
計畫編號 NSC95-2221-E-606-011-MY3 
計畫名稱 發展半導體工程鏈管理系統--子計畫二： 工程鏈管理系統資料交換機制之設計與實作（第 3 年） 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
洪敏雄 
國防大學電機電子工程學系 教授 
會議時間地點 98 年 8 月 22 日~8 月 25 日 
印度班加羅爾市(Bangalore, India) 
會議名稱 
 (中文) 2009 年 IEEE 自動化科學與工程國際研討會 
 (英文) 2009 IEEE International Conference on Automation Science 
and Engineering (CASE 2009) 
發表論文題目  (中文) 雙重虛擬量測輸出選擇機制之進階研究 
 (英文)  Advanced Studies of Selection Schemes for Dual 
Virtual-Metrology Outputs 
表 Y04 3
 
二、與會心得 
本次大會之特色除了3 場邀請之專題演講 (Invited Plenary Talks)及4場
Workshops與4場Tutorials外，也舉辦參觀印度軟體公司的參訪活動，讓參與者可以
看到印度軟體發展的進步情形。本次國際學術會議，國內共有6位的專家學者參加。
整體而言，本次大會相當成功。 
 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
無。 
 
四、建議 
感謝國科會提供經費補助國內專家學者出席國際研討會，也期盼國內學者能繼
續積極參與國際學術活動並發表論文，以期提升我國之國際學術地位。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. Proceedings CD of 2009 IEEE International Conference on Automation Science and 
Engineering. 
. 
六、其他 
本次研討會從研討會訊息、論文投稿、論文審稿、論文審查意見通知、論文定
稿、到研討會註冊報名等均可由 CASE 2009 網站作業完成，資訊非常透明與便捷，
此點值得國內辦理研討會時參考。 
 
附錄：「雙重虛擬量測輸出選擇機制之進階研究(Advanced Studies of Selection Schemes for 
Dual Virtual-Metrology Outputs)」論文內容 
 
  
 implications of experimental results are also discussed here. Finally, 
a summary and conclusion are made in Section 4. 
II. SS-SCHEME AND WS-SCHEME 
 Both the proposed SS-scheme and WS-scheme are all 
composed of an off-line classification flow of modeling data sets 
(as shown in Fig. 1). Then, the on-line selection flows of 
SS-scheme and WS-scheme are depicted in Figs. 2 and 3, 
respectively. They are described below. 
2.1 Off-line Classification Flow of Modeling Data Sets 
The entire modeling data sets are first classified into the NN 
group and the MR group based on the modeling error of each data 
set. The procedure shown in Fig. 1 is detailed as follows. 
●Step 1) To create the NN and MR models, n sets of historical data 
are collected, including process data (xa,j, a = 1, 2, …, n;  j = 1, 
2, …, p) from a production tool and the corresponding metrology 
data (ya, a = 1, 2, …, n) from a metrology tool, where each set of 
process data contains individual parameters (from parameter 1 to 
parameter p). The correlation between the process and metrology 
data of each set should be assured before considering this set as a 
valid modeling set. 
●Step 2) Before the NN conjecture model and MR predictive 
model are established, the process and metrology data have to be 
standardized by Z-score. The equations for standardizing the 
process and metrology data are listed as follows [11]. 
,
,
a j j
a j
j
x
x
x x
Z σ
−= , a = 1, 2, …, n; j =1, 2, …, p          (1)                   
(
jn,j2,j1,
x...xx
n
1x j +++= )                        (2) 
( ) ( ) ([ ) ]2jjn,2jj2,2jj1,j xx...xxxx1n1σx −++−+−−=      (3) 
a
a
y
y
y yZ σ
−=                                      (4) 
( n21 yyyn
1y +++= L )                          (5) 
( ) ( ) ( )[ ]2n2221y yyyyyy1n1σ −++−+−−= L           (6)                                                
 
where 
,a jx  jth process parameter in the ath set of process data; 
,a jx
Z  standardized jth process parameter in the ath set of 
process data; 
jx  mean of the jth process data;  
jx
σ  standard deviation of the jth process data; 
ay  ath actual metrology value; 
ay
Z  standardized ath actual metrology value; 
y  mean of all the actual metrology values; 
yσ  standard deviation of all the actual metrology values. 
●Step 3) The n sets of standardized process data (
,a jx
Z ,  a = 1, 
2, …, n;  j=1, 2, …, p) and the standardized actual metrology values 
(
ay
Z ,  a = 1, 2, …, n)  are adopted to create the NN conjecture 
model and MR predictive model. 
●Step 4) Compute the NN and MR modeling errors of each sample. 
The NN and MR modeling errors of each sample are depicted as 
follows. 
ˆ|
a aN a N
y y |ε = − , a = 1, 2, …, n                   (7)            
ˆ|
a ar a r
y y |ε = − , a = 1, 2, …, n                   (8)            
where
aN
ε and 
ar
ε represent the NN modeling error and MR 
modeling error for the ath sample, respectively; ya is the actual 
metrology value; ˆNay  and ˆ ary  are the NN and MR VM values, 
respectively. 
●Step 5) Check whether 
aN
ε  is less than or equal to 
ar
ε  for 
each sample. 
●Step 6) If 
aN
ε  is less than or equal to 
ar
ε , then this modeling 
sample is distributed to the NN group. Otherwise, 
this modeling sample is distributed to the MR group. 
●Step 7) Assume that s and t sets of modeling sample data are 
contained in the NN group and MR group, respectively. Thus, the s 
and t sets of standardized model parameters are defined as 
,1 ,2 ,,  ,  ...,  N N N N p
T
Z Z Z= ⎡ ⎤⎣ ⎦Z
,1 ,2 ,,  ,  ...,  r r r r p
T
Z Z Z=
(for NN group) and 
⎡ ⎤⎣ ⎦Z  (for MR group). Here, ,N jZ  and ,r jZ  
are the means of the standardized jth process parameters in the NN 
group and MR group, respectively. 
2.2 On-line Selection Flow of the SS-scheme  
Figure 2 shows the on-line selection flow between the NN and 
MR outputs for each conjecture sample (denoted the SS-scheme). 
The Mahalanobis distance (MD) between the conjecture sample 
and standardized model parameters of NN or MR group is first 
calculated. Then, the NN or MR output is chosen depending on 
which computed MD is smaller. The flow of the SS-scheme shown 
in Fig. 2 is detailed as follows. 
●Step 1) Collect the newly (λth) input set of process data 
,1 ,2 ,,  ,  ...,  p
T
x x xλ λ λ λ= ⎡ ⎤⎣ ⎦X  as the conjecture sample. 
●Step 2) Compute the standardized λth set process data 
,1 ,2 ,
( ,  ,  ...,  )
P
T
x x xZ Z Zλ λ λ λ⎡ ⎤= ⎣ ⎦Z . 
●Step 3) Calculate the Mahalanobis distance between λZ and , 
and between 
NZ
λZ  and  as follows [11]. rZ
( ) ( )T2 1N, N NND =λ λ λ−−Z Z R Z Z−                     ( 9 ) 
( ) ( ),λ λ λ2 1r r rD = −−Z Z R Z ZT r−                    (10) 
where 2N,D λ  represents the MD between λZ  and , NZ
2
r,D λ  
depicts the MD between λZ  and , rZ
1
NR
− and 1rR
− are the 
inverse matrixes of correlation coefficients among the standardized 
parameters in the NN group and MR group. 
●Step 4) Check whether 2N,D λ  is less than or equal to 
2
r,D λ . 
●Step 5) If Step 4 is yes, then the NN output is selected, otherwise 
the MR output is chosen. 
 
422
 The 92nd virtual cassette that contains 25 
pieces of glass is used for the VM conjecturing 
test. For evaluating the conjecture accuracy, not 
only the regular sampling glass but the other 24 
pieces of glass in the testing (92nd) cassette are 
measured. Therefore, the process data of these 25 
pieces of glass in the testing cassette are used for 
VM conjecturing, whereas the corresponding 
actual metrology values of these 25 pieces of 
testing glass are adopted to evaluate the VM 
conjecture accuracy.   
Example 2A includes 121 sets of process data 
and their corresponding metrology data. The first 
102 sets are adopted as the modeling sets for 
establishing the NN conjecture and MR 
predictive models. The last 19 sets of process data are used for the 
VM conjecturing test, whereas the corresponding actual metrology 
values of those 19 sets are adopted for evaluating the VM 
conjecture accuracy. 
Example 2B involves Example 2A’s 121 sets and 12 additional 
sets of process and metrology data. Those 121 sets are adopted as 
the data for establishing the NN conjecture and MR predictive 
models. The additional 12 sets are applied for the VM conjecturing 
test. Especially, among those additional 12 sets, #3 ~ #9 are chosen 
to perform a critical dimension (CD) spread test with the 
adjustment of a major parameter on the photo equipment. 
According to the physical properties of the CVD equipment and 
photo equipment, 10 and 21 key process parameters are chosen 
respectively as the inputs of the conjecture model. The conjecture 
accuracy calculated from the test data was quantified by the mean 
absolute percentage error (MAPE) [11], [15]. Its formula is 
represented as follows. 
3.1  Conjecture Results of Example 1  
Among all the 19 measurement positions for the CVD process 
of 19”-product glass, the VM conjecture results of Positions 6 and 
14 for various algorithms are illustrated in Fig. 5. The various AIs 
(0.57, 0.43, 0.41, and 0.35 for solo-NN, solo-MR, SS-scheme, and 
WS-scheme, respectively) shown in Fig. 5(a) indicate that the 
SS-scheme is better than the solo-NN and solo-MR as far as the 
VM conjecture accuracy is concerned. Moreover, the accuracy of 
the WS-scheme is superior to that of the SS-scheme. However, as 
shown in Fig. 5(b), the AIs of the solo-NN, solo-MR, and 
SS-scheme are all 0.50. This fact indicates that the SS-scheme 
cannot improve the accuracy of Position 14. Nevertheless, the 
accuracy is improved by applying the WS-scheme with AI = 0.42.   
Table I presents the conjecture accuracy of the solo-NN, 
solo-MR, SS-scheme, and WS-scheme algorithms for all the (19) 
measurement positions of Example 1. As indicated in Table I, the 
accuracy of Positions 5, 13, and 14 of the solo-NN is better than 
that of the solo-MR. On the contrary, the solo-MR’s accuracy of all 
the other positions is superior to the solo-NN’s accuracy. That is 
one of the reasons why we try to develop the SS-scheme and 
WS-scheme to improve the overall accuracy. Observing the last 
row of Table 1, the means of MAPE and AI of the WS-scheme are 
the best among all the solo-NN, solo-MR, SS-scheme, and 
WS-scheme algorithms. And, the mean of AI of the SS-scheme is 
worse than that of the solo-MR in this example. Moreover, among 
those 19 positions, there are six positions (2, 4, 13, 15, 16, & 18)  
whose AI values of the SS-scheme are larger than 0.5 while only 
one position (11) whose AI value of the WS-scheme is larger than 
0.5. Therefore, the WS-scheme is indeed better than the 
SS-scheme. 
19
18
17
16
1
6
11
12
13
14
15
7 4
5
3
2
8
9
10
 
1
8
9
16
234
5
12
13 14 15
11 10
6 7
(a)                             (b) 
Fig. 4 Measurement Positions of (a) CVD Equipment (19”-product Glass)  
(b) Photo Equipment (14.1”-product Glass). 
1
ˆ| ( ) / |
MAPE 100%
q
i i
i
y y y
q
=
−∑
= ×              (12) 
where  is the VM conjecture value, yi is the actual metrology 
value, y is the target value, and q is the conjecture sample size. The 
closer the MAPE value is to zero, the better the conjecture accuracy 
of the model can achieve.  
ˆiy
Besides the MAPE, this paper also proposes an accuracy index 
(AI), lying between 0 and 1, to make the accuracy evaluation more 
distinct. The AI formula of a test set for various algorithms is 
represented as follow. Each test set contains many samples. 
M A P E - M A P El g
M A P E - M A P E
A I = A o r i t h m B e s t
W o r s t B e s t
          (13) 3.2 Conjecture Results of Example 2A 
The glass of 14.1” product for the photo process has two shots. 
Each shot has 8 measurement positions. This example utilizes the 
eight positions of Shot 2, as shown in Fig. 4(b), for evaluation. 
Table II presents the VM conjecture accuracy of various algorithms 
for all the measurement positions (1-8). Among those 8 positions, 
the conjecture results of Positions 3 and 4 for various algorithms 
are depicted in Fig. 6. After examining Fig. 6 and Table II, we 
discover that the same conclusions made in Example 1 are still 
valid in Example 2A. The conclusions are accuracy improvement 
of the WS-scheme is assured because none of the AI values are 
greater than 0.5; and, that of the SS-scheme is not certain since the 
AI values of Positions 1, 2, 5, and 8 are greater than 0.5.  
The experimental data of both Examples 1 and 2A are collected 
from normal CVD and photo manufacturing processes. To test the 
capability of the WS-scheme for improving the accuracy under 
process drift and/or shift conditions, Example 2B is presented as 
follows. 
where MAPEAlgorithm represents the MAPE of solo-NN, solo-MR, 
SS-scheme, or WS-scheme algorithm of the test set; MAPEBest is 
the MAPE value by selecting the smaller-error VM output of each 
NN-and-MR-output pair of all samples in the test set; and 
MAPEWorst is the MAPE value by selecting the larger-error VM 
output of each NN-and-MR-output pair of all samples in the test 
set. 
Observing (13), if MAPEAlgorithm equals MAPEBest, then AI 
equals 0. On the other hand, if MAPEAlgorithm equals MAPEWorst, 
then AI equals 1. The purpose of adding the selection schemes is to 
generate a smaller MAPE value of the test set. Therefore, the AI 
value is the smaller the better. However, the AI value may be 
smaller than 0 if the selection scheme generates a MAPE value that 
is smaller than MAPEBest. 
The detailed test results of the two examples mentioned above 
are presented below. 
424
