行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
Preparation of NSC Project Reports
計畫名稱：具有限字元長度效應之數位控制系統分析與最佳化設計(I)
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-468-008-
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：柯賢儒 亞洲大學電腦與通訊學系
一、中文摘要
藉由極點靈敏度的觀念，一個最佳的數
位濾波器架構將經由最佳化的相似轉換由公
式解得到，該最佳相似轉換所對應之濾波器
架構將有數學證明其所對應之極點靈敏度是
最低的，且該濾波器之系統矩陣將具有正規
型式(normal-form)矩陣之特性。基於最佳化
的數位濾波器架構，吾人將利用全新的穩定
度分析方法推算出實現該數位濾波器到數位
式機構(如數位信號處理器或單晶片)時仍能
保持系統穩定所使用之最小暫存器位元數，
其中這個穩定準則將同時考慮量化誤差以及
運算時所產生的誤差。
關鍵詞：有限字元長度、正規矩陣、極點、
靈敏度、最佳化、暫存器、量化誤差、穩定
準則
Abstract
By concept of the pole sensitivity, a
closed-form solution subject to the
structure of digital filters can be
obtained by using optimal similarity
transformation. Further, such an optimal
digital-filter-structure corresponding
to the optimal similarity transformation
as well as corresponding to least pole
sensitivity measure will be proved
mathematically in this project. Moreover,
the system matrix of such a filter is with
normal-form.Based upon the structure of
the optimal digital filters subject to
FWL effects, one will apply the novel
stability criterion to evaluate the
least bit-number of the register of the
digital machine (for example, digital
signal processor or single chip, etc.) to
preserve the stability for digital
filter implementations. Both the errors
occurred by quantization and computation
will be considered simultaneously in the
criterion.
Keywords: Finite Word-Length, Normal Matrix,
Poles, Sensitivity, Optimization, Register,
Quantization Error, Stability Criterion.
二、緣由及目的
由於數位式計算機及相關週邊軟硬體
之蓬勃發展，數位式資料在現今的工程應
用上扮演極重要的角色，他們大量地存在
於各種相關的軟硬體機制中，例如:微處
理機、數位信號處理器之暫存器、數位/
類比轉換器、各種程式語言之程式碼等
等。數位式軟硬體之應用通常會具有下列
的好處:
1. 可以有效的降低雜訊的干擾。
2. 硬體的實現較具有彈性，可依功能需求
進行軟體或韌體修改，且價格較為低廉。
3. 方便設計者進行電腦模擬。
因此，數位信號的討論成為過去數十年來
迄今持續討論的重要主題，在控制工程以及
通訊工程上，數位控制器與數位濾波器分別
扮演著重要的角色。在相關的文獻中，這兩
個主題一直是相當熱門的。
無論在何種工程應用上，數位式資料必
須要同時面對一個實際而且重要的問題，即
有限字元長度 (Finite Word Length)的課
題，因為在數位式計算機上所能實現的資料
總是 2 的冪次方，意即並非所有的實數均能
毫無誤差地以數位資料表示，這種誤差在某
些情況下將對實際的信號輸出產生重大的影
響，尤其以控制和通訊工程相關的應用影響
最深。
故本計畫之目的在於設計一種最佳化濾
波器結構，使其在有限自元長度的影響下，
[35]，唯一缺點就是，需要龐大的迴圈運算，
並且在學理上的說服力較為薄弱 (因為無法
證明經由電腦迴圈運算後的解即為最佳解)。
本計劃主持人主要將探討的重心放在數
位濾波器之穩定度分析上，期望能找到一最
佳之數位濾波器結構使有限字元長度效應能
降至最低，至目前為止，不論在先前控制器
方面或是數位濾波器設計上，針對有限字元
長度所設計出的架構，因為數學上推導的問
題，只能依照穩定度的充分條件 (使系統能
確保穩定的字元長度) 加以求解，亦即，使
用者必須以更長的字元長度來實現控制器或
濾波器，這樣將造成結果過於保守而使實用
性降低。
基於 [1]、[7]、[40]、[42]及[43]的基
礎，本計劃將提出一種簡單而且實用的方法
來求解有限字元長度影響下之最佳濾波器求
解問題，這種全新的方法預期將推導出一充
分必要條件，使數位濾波器之架構實現可以
根據該條件加以求解。
茲整理本計畫重點如下
1. 提出一全新的方法，針對有限字元長度
影響下的數位濾波器的參數實現提供一
有效且簡單的公式解
2. 利用極點靈敏度的觀念，本計劃中將提
出相對應的值函數，並證明該公式解將
對應對低的極點靈敏度。
3. 此研究將可進一步延伸至閉迴路控制器
設計的問題。
四、研究方法及主要成果
一般而言，因為數學分析的方便，我
們會以頻域(frequency domain)的角度來
討論濾波器的性能，但在實際的角度來看
在實現數位濾波器時，我們會以時域
(time domain)的模型來加以實現，針對此
最有利之數學模型即為狀態空間(State
Space) 架構，因此本計劃將考慮下列之
動態濾波器
其中 分別為系統狀
態、輸入及輸出。在有限字元長度的干
擾，並考慮以定點運算(fixed-point
arithmetic)模式之下，上述之濾波器系統
將改寫為下列型式
以及上標 分別代表濾波器內
部狀態以及系統矩陣參數之固定點乘
法運算以及捨位(rounding)或量化運算
後之實際值。此處，我們首要的目標為
找到一個最佳的濾波器架構，使有限字
元長度對於濾波器的影響能最小，其轉
換式如下
上式可在任何線性系統的敎科書
上找到，眾所皆知，一個線性動態濾波
器系統將會有無窮多種組合的實現方
式，如何從無窮多種的可能組合當中找
到一組針對有限字元長度效應最佳化
的組合是本計劃中最核心的問題。
在固定點運算模式中，暫存器的字組可
由下列公式說明之
其中 為字組總長度，1 表示符號元，
代表整數部份位元數， 代表小數部份
位元數，在此我們考慮以飽和值
(Saturation) 的方法來避免溢位(Overflow)
的產生，因此單一純量之固定點運算模型
可藉由下列公式[1]表示
其中 為任意之實數， 為相對應之捨
位誤差，此誤差值大小之上限為
在溢位錯誤已經避免的情形之下，兩純量
乘法運算之誤差模型可由下式表示
其中 與 皆為屬於 區間之實數，
為均勻分布於 之乘法
運算誤差，為了數學推導之方便，吾人將
做正規化 (normalization) 之運算，以
下列方程式表示之
其中 均勻分布於 區間，
。這些推導將是數位濾波器系
的推導中我們都能夠以一個簡單的公式
解來完成最佳化轉換是本計畫預期之目
的，我們把這種針對濾波器最佳化結構之
轉換稱之為「正規型式轉換」 (Nor-
mal-Form Transformation)。
在本計畫中我們主要針對穩定性之字元長度
估測 能找到最佳之濾波器系統矩陣
，使字元長度值能達到最小。藉由下列值
函數 (cost-function)的定義，可以進一步
達到我們想要的結果
其中 為 的第 k個特徵值(eigenvalue)，
分別為對應之右特徵向量 (right
eigenvector)及左特徵向量，考慮所有的特
徵值，我們定義下式
為了數學上的可處理性，我們找到下列的不
等式
此不等式將作為最佳化濾波器架構的主要工
具，我們將設法找出一濾波器架構能對應
上式之最小下界(Lower Bound)。
X及Y分別為A的right eigenvectors及left ei-
genvectors所組成的矩陣，我們將依據下面的
成本函數找一個最佳的濾波器結構
滿足上式的濾波器將可由下列轉換得到
其中最佳的相似轉換矩陣
其中F為任意之正交矩陣(Orthogonal Matric-
es)。有趣的現象在於這樣的一個轉換矩陣將
可以不僅達到最低的極點大小靈敏度亦同時
確保轉換後的的濾波器系統矩陣A恰好滿足
nomal-form的性質，其證明如下：
定理：若任意給定之濾波器系統矩陣經
之相似轉換式運
算，得到的最佳濾波器結構， ，將
滿足 之關係式，其
中 為系統矩陣之spectral ra-
dius。
證明：
藉由上式的結果，將可使 得到一個不
保守的位元估測值。
模擬結果：
我們茲列舉Hinamoto等人在[37]由關濾波
器研究的model如下
經由最佳相似轉換矩陣的公式，我們得到
下面的最佳轉換式
因此，最佳的濾波器參數可以用公式解的
方式得到，如下式
[23] G. Li, "On the structure of digital controllers
with finite word length consideration," IEEE
Trans. Automat. Contr., vol. 43, pp. 689-693,
1998.
[24] R.E. Skelton, T. Iwasaki, and K. Grigoriadis, A
Unified Algebraic Approach to Linear Control Design,
Taylor and Francis, 1998.
[25] R.H. Istepanian, G. Li, J. Wu, and J. Chu,
"Analysis of sensitivity measures of fi-
nite-precision digital controller structures with
closed-loop stability bounds", IEE
Proc.-Control Theory Appl., vol. 145, pp.
472-478, 1998.
[26] S. Chen, J. Wu, R.H. Istepanian, J. Chu, and J.F.
Whiborne, "Optimising stability bounds of fi-
nite-precision controller structures for sam-
pled-data systems in the  -operator domain,"
IEE Proc.-Control Theory Appl., vol. 146, pp.
517-526, Nov. 1999.
[27] T. Hinamoto, Y. Zempo, Y. Nishino, and W.-S.
Lu, "An Analytical approach for the synthesis
of two-dimensional state-space filter structures
with minimum weighted sensitivity," IEEE
Trans. Circuits Syst. I, vol. 46, pp. 1172-1183,
1999.
[28] G. Li, M. Gevers, and Y. Sun, "Performance
analysis of a new structure for digital filter im-
plementation," IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. I, vol.
47, pp. 474-482, 2000.
[29] J. F. Whidborne, J. Wu, and R. S. H. Istepanian,
"Finite word length stability issues in an 1L
framework," Int. J. Control, vol. 73, pp.
166-176, 2000.
[30] J.F. Whidborne, J. Wu, R.S.H. Istepanian, and J.
Chu, "Comments on 'On the structure of digital
controllers with finite word length considera-
tion'," IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr., vol. 45, pp.
344, 2000.
[31] J. Wu, S. Chen, G. Li, R.H. Istepanian, and J.
Chu, "Shift and delta operator realizations for
digital controllers under finite word length con-
siderations", IEE Proc.-Control Theory Appl.,
vol. 147, no. 6, pp. 664-672, 2000.
[32] L.M. Smith and M.E. Henderson, Jr., "Roundo_
noise reduction in cascade realizations of FIR
digital filters," IEEE Trans. Signal Processing,
vol. 48, pp. 1196-1200, Apr. 2000.
[33] Haranath Kar and Vimal Singh, "Stability
Analysis of 1-D and 2-D Fixed-Point
State-Space Digital Filters Using any Combina-
tion of Overow and Quantization Nonlineari-
ties," IEEE Trans. signal processing, vol. 49,
pp.1097-1105, May 2001.
[34] J. F. Whidborne, R. S. H. Istepanian, and J. Wu,
"Reduction of controller fragility by pole sensi-
tivity minimization," IEEE Trans. Automat.
Contr., vol. 46, pp. 320-325, 2001.
[35] J. Wu, S. Chen, G. Li, R.H. Istepanian, and J.
Chu, "An improved closed-loop stability related
measure for finite-precision digital controller
realizations", IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr., vol.
46, no. 7, pp. 1162-1166, 2001.
[36] G. Li, J. Wu, S.Chen, and K. Y. Zhao, "Opti-
mum structures of digital controllers in sam-
pled-data systems: a roundoff noise analysis,"
IEE Proc.-Control Theory Appl., vol. 149, pp.
247-255, 2002.
[37] T.H. Hinamoto, S. Yokoyama, T. Inoue, W.
Zeng, and W.-S. Lu, "Analysis and minimiza-
tion of L2-sensitivity for linear systems and
two-dimensional state-space filters using gener-
al controllability and observability grammians,"
IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. I, vol. 49, pp.
1279-1289, 2002.
[38] J. Wu, S. Chen, G. Li, and J. Chu, "Construct-
ing sparse realisations of finite precision digital
controllers based on a closed-loop stability re-
lated measure," IEE Proc.-Control Theory
Appl., vol. 150, pp.61-68, 2003.
[39] Jun Wu, Sheng Chen, James F. Whidborne, and
Jian Chu, "A unified closed-loop stability
measure for finite-precision digital controller
realizations implemented in different represen-
tation schemes," IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr.,
vol. 38, pp.816-822, 2003.
[40] Wen-Shyong Yu and Hsien-Ju Ko, "Improved
eigenvalue sensitivity for finite precision digital
controller Realisations via Orthogonal Hermi-
tian Transform," IEE Proc.-Control Theory
Appl., vol. 150, pp. 365-375, 2003.
[41] Jun Wu, Sheng Chen, James F. Whidborne, and
Jian Chu, "Optimal realizations of float-
ing-point implemented digital controllers with
finite word length considerations," Int. J. Con-
trol, vol. 77, pp.427-440, 2004.
[42] Hsien-Ju Ko and Wen-Shyong Yu, "Guaranteed
robust stability of the closed-loop systems for
digital controller implementations via ortho-
gonal hermitian transform," IEEE Trans. Syst.,
Man, Cybern., vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 1923-1932,
2004 .
[43] Hsien-Ju Ko and Wen-Shyong Yu, Sensitivity
minimization for controller implementations:
Fixed-point approach,” American Control
Conference (ACC 2004), Boston, Massachusetts,
July 2, 2004
[44] Alan V. Oppenheim and Roland W. Schafer,
Discrete-Time Signal Processing, Prentice Hall,
1989
[45] Jinxin Hao, Gang Li, and Wan, C, “Two classes
of efficient digital controller structures with
stability consideration,” IEEE Transactions on
Automatic Control, vol 51, no.1, pp. 164 – 170,
Jan. 2006.
[46] Kodek, D.M, “Performance limit of finite wor-
dlength FIR digital filters,” IEEE Transactions
on Signal Processing, vol. 53, no.7, pp. 2462 –
2469, July 2005.
[47] W.-Y. Yan and J. B. Moore, "On 2L -sensitivity
minimization of linear state-space systems,"
IEEE Trans.Circuits Sys. I, vol. 39, pp. 641-648,
Aug. 1992.
A Novel Approach to Stability Analysis of Fixed-Point Digital
Filters under Finite Word Length Effects
Hsien-Ju Ko and Wen-Shyong Yu
Abstract— In this paper, a novel approach is proposed
to analyze and minimize fixed-point arithmetic errors for
digital filter implementations based on eigenvalue sensitivity
measures. First, uncertainties of the filter-parameter caused by
roundoff and computational errors are expressed in function
of register length for fixed-point implementations. Sequen-
tially, based on fixed-point statistical model and normal-form
transformation, a stability criterion of the dynamical filter
model is derived to form a similarity transformation with
a sufficient and necessary condition of the stability. Thus,
eigenvalue sensitivity measure with respect to filter parameters
is constructed in the sense of induced 2-norm. This measure is
minimized by an optimal similarity transformation (normal-
form transformation) obtained from an analytically algebraic
method. Based upon this transformation as well as the stability
criterion, a least register length can be obtained. Finally, an
example is performed to illustrate the effectiveness of the
proposed scheme.
I. INTRODUCTION
Digital filters are widely used in many engineering ap-
plications, in particular, the fields about communication
and control engineering. However, not all analog signals
can be exactly implemented by the digital schemes since
the undesirable finite word length (FWL) effects will be
occurred during A/D processes and/or in the registers of
a CPU. In some applications, the signals are faint and
result in degenerated accuracy after digitization. For ex-
ample, in most industrial products such as robots, devices
of communications, controllers of automobiles, etc., and
hence, considering FWL effects is essential. Finite word
length effects have been an important issue in hardware
implementation and widely discussed in many literatures.
Wilkinson [1] first proposed an algebraic analysis for round-
ing errors in digital machines, either in fixed or floating
point computations. In general, fixed-point arithmetic are
generally with lower costs, lower complexity of imple-
mentations, easier for programming and higher operational
speed, etc. There exist infinite realizations correspond to
the same transfer function of a digital filter, and yield the
same stability and performance. However, the digital filter
with different state-space realizations may have different
output performance when these structures are implemented
in digital computers with FWL. The undesirable FWL
This work was supported by the National Science Concil of Taiwan
R.O.C. under grant No. 96-2221-E-468-008
Hsien-Ju Ko is the Faculty of Department of Computer & Communi-
cation Engineering, Asia University 500, Liufeng Rd., Wufeng, Taichung,
Taiwan. R.O.C. hjko@asia.edu.tw
Wen-Shyong Yu is the Faculty of the Department of Electrical Engi-
neering, Tatung University, 40 Chung-Shan North Rd. 3rd. Sec., Taipei,
104 Taiwan. R.O.C. wsyu@ctr1.ee.ttu.edu.tw
effects may degrade the performance or even make the
output signal divergent of the digital filters. Therefore,
selecting a proper realization may improve robustness of
the closed-loop system under FWL consideration. Chen
and Kuo [2] proposed a sufficient stability-condition in
terms of wordlength of a digital filter realization using
small gain theory and the Bellman-Grownwall Lemma that
is conservative and complicate since selecting the filter
realization properly has not been done. Recent years, sensi-
tivity measure methods for finding the optimal state-space
realization are proposed. These methods are effectively to
deal with all digital linear systems under FWL effects
especially the digital filters [3], [5]-[7], [10], [14]-[15]and
digital control systems. Ko and Yu [9], [11]-[12] proposed
an analytically algebraic method for solving an optimal
transformation to achieve the minimal sensitivity subject
to FWL effects for digital control systems. However, using
Bellman-Grownwall Lemma for the word length estimations
in the above mentioned papers is still required. In contrast to
the previous works, if one can obtain the system matrix as
normal-form realization 1 via some similar transformation,
the conservativeness of the stability criterion in terms of
word length will be highly eliminated. In addition, the
complexity of mathematical derivation can be reduced as
well. In fact, to find a controller such that the entire closed-
loop system matrix that is normal is still an open problem.
This issue can be a further research. It is interesting to
investigate whether any given system matrix of a filter
system (i.e open-loop system: a system without feedback
control) can be transferred into normal-form. Such a form
will lead us to obtain an improved version of Chen and
Kuo [3]. To the authors best knowledge, the improved work
of Chen and Kuo is still a lack. In this paper, a novel
approach is proposed for analyzing the stability for digital
filter implementations subject to FWL effects based on
the eigenvalue sensitivity. First, uncertainties of the filter
parameters caused by roundoff and computational errors
using fixed-point computations are expressed in function
of register length. Then, an improved stability criterion of
the digital filter based on fixed-point statistical model is
derived. Based on the approach of eigenvalue-sensitivity
minimization, the optimally similar transformation (normal-
form transformation) is presented. This transformation can
transfer any original given system matrix of digital filter
into normal-form. The main contribution of this paper can
1A normal-form matrix satisfies that the induced matrix-2 norm equal
to its spectral radius.
Lemma 1: The implemented FWL digital filter is stable
if and only if
‖A˘‖2 < 1. (15)
Proof: The proof can be seen in many textbooks of linear
systems or related literatures, e.g. Chen (1999), and can be
omitted here.

Theorem 1: : Based on (12) and the criterion (15) in
Lemma 1, an estimated bit-number that the stability can
be obtained as follows:
W(est) = 1 + int
[
log2
(
‖sgn(A)‖2
1− ‖A‖2
)]
subject to
0 < ‖A‖2 < 1 (16)
where W(est) and int[·] denote the estimated word-length
and the smallest integer equal to or greater than ·, respec-
tively.
Proof: By (12), we have
‖A˘−A‖2 = 2
−Wf ‖sgn(A)‖2 (17)
From Lemma 1, the filter system is stable iff
2−Wf ‖sgn(A)‖2 < 1− ‖A‖2 (18)
Since all parameters are normalized. Therefore, the esti-
mated word length in terms of stability may be obtained
as
W(est) = sign bit + int(Wf ) = 1 + int(Wf ) (19)
This completes the proof. 
This novel estimation is more progressive than the previous
works because of the released conservativeness. However,
one should note that if ‖A‖2 is equal or greater than 1,
the estimation becomes unavailable. In the next section, the
normal-form transformation based on eigenvalue sensitivity
minimization can cope with this problem.
IV. EIGENVALUE SENSITIVITY AND NORMAL-FORM
TRANSFORMATION
To reduce FWL effects, sensitivity minimization ap-
proach has been used in many literatures. Since all eigen-
values of an ideal digital filter under FWL effects may
result in poor performance or even unstable. Eigenvalue
sensitivity minimization becomes one of the effectiveness
scheme against the FWL effects of a state-space realization.
In this section, we will show that sensitivity minimization
can not only offer the optimal filter implementation but
also provides the normal-form transformation to make the
stability criterion (16) available.
Lemma 2: Wu and Chen et al: Suppose that the system
matrix A in (1) is diagonalizable and let λk be the kth
eigenvalue of A . Then, we have
∂|λk|
∂A
=
Re(λkykx
H
k )
|λk|
(20)
where xk , yk, and the superscript H denote the reciprocal
kth right and left eigenvectors of A, and complex conjugate
transpose operator, respectively. 
In practice, all eigenvalues of a digital filter will be
perturbed by FWL, hence, the sensitivity measure can be
considered as follows
Γ =
∥∥∥∥∥
n∑
k=1
∂|λk|
∂A
∥∥∥∥∥
2
. (21)
To achieve the mathematical tractability of (21), the
following inequality is needed:
Γ ≤
∥∥∥Y
∥∥∥
2
∥∥∥X
∥∥∥
2
(22)
where X and Y are the sets of right and left eigenvectors
of A, respectively. For convenience, we define the upper
bound of Γ as Γ¯. Therefore, to tackle the FWL effects
of a digital filter and to find the corresponding optimal
state-space realization can be specifically formulated as the
minimization problem as
Γ¯min = min
T
Γ¯ (23)
where T is some similar transformation of A. Thus, it is
expected that there exists an optimal similarity transforma-
tion, T(opt), such that (23) is achieved, where
A(opt) = T
−1
(opt)AT(opt), B(opt) = T
−1
(opt)B,
C(opt) = CT(opt), d(opt) = d (24)
and the reciprocal right and left eigenvectors can be ex-
pressed, respectively, as:
X(opt) = T
−1
(opt)X,Y = T
⊤
(opt)Y (25)
Lemma 3:Assume that X has n rows and is full row
rank and XXH is an identity matrix. Then the following
equations are satisfied
‖Y‖2‖X‖2 = ‖X
HY‖2. (26)

Theorem 2:: Let the similarity transformations for min-
imizing the Γ¯ be expressed as T(opt), we have
T(opt) =
(
XXH
)1/2
F (27)
where F is any arbitrary real orthogonal matrix.
Proof: The proof can be obtained based on Lemma 3 and
the trick in Yu and Ko [11]. 
Theorem 3:: If the system matrix A of the digital filter
(1) is transferred to A(opt) by using T(opt), the optimal
realization A(opt) is a normal-form realization, that is,
‖A(opt)‖2 = sr(A(opt)), where sr(·) denotes the spectral
radius (i.e the maximal absolute value of all eigenvalues)
of ·.
