plasmonic devices using the Legendre pseudospectral 
time-domain method, finite-difference time-domain 
(FDTD) simulation of electromagnetic wave scattering 
by periodic structures with obliquely incident waves, 
and some study on the second-order condition of the 
FDTD method at sloped dielectric interfaces. 
英文關鍵詞： Microstructure, nanophotonics, plasmonics, finite-
difference frequency-domain method, finite-difference 
time-domain method, pseudo-spectral time-domain 
method, pseudo-spectral frequency-domain method, 
optical waveguides, anisotropic waveguides, photonic 
crystals, surface plasmon waveguides, surface plasmon 
waveguide microring resonators, terahertz waveguides, 
liquid crystal devices 
 
metal-insulator-metal plasmonic devices using the Legendre pseudospectral time-domain 
method, finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) simulation of electromagnetic wave scattering 
by periodic structures with obliquely incident waves, and some study on the second-order 
condition of the FDTD method at sloped dielectric interfaces. 
Keywords: Microstructure, nanophotonics, plasmonics, finite-difference frequency-domain 
method, finite-difference time-domain method, pseudo-spectral time-domain 
method, pseudo-spectral frequency-domain method, optical waveguides, 
anisotropic waveguides, photonic crystals, surface plasmon waveguides, surface 
plasmon waveguide microring resonators, terahertz waveguides, liquid crystal 
devices 
This report contains several different topics. The Introduction, Research Purposes, 
Literature Survey, and Results and Discussion for each topic can be found in the 
corresponding Appendix. 
I. FDFD Analysis of Anisotropic Optical Waveguides: Accurate Leakage-Loss 
 Calculation 
Optical waveguide mode solvers play an important role in designing and developing 
integrated optical circuits. Finite-difference (FD) solvers have been attractive tools because 
they are based on simple formulations and easy in execution. In recently years, FD methods 
have been employed for analyzing anisotropic optical waveguides, but mostly only transverse 
anisotropy was considered. In this research, we formulate a full-vectorial eigenmode solver 
based on the Yee mesh, named the finite-difference frequency-domain (FDFD) method, to 
study anisotropic planar waveguides containing materials of arbitrary permittivity tensor. We 
utilize the non-diagonal perfectly matched layer (PML) absorbing boundary condition in our 
formulation to treat mode leakage. We find that preparing enough thickness of the PML is 
essential in obtaining correct imaginary part of the effective index for the considered 
anisotropic waveguides. We have particularly found that the PML thickness has to be set up 
to 20-30 μm to attenuate the leaky field in the PML down to enough low level in order to get 
converged imaginary part of the effective index. The obtained leakage losses for the 
fundamental TM mode of an anisotropic planar waveguide for different optic-axis 
orientations agree very well with analytical results derived By D. Marcuse in 1979 [1], [2]. 
Please refer to Appendix I [1] for the detail. In fact, we have also developed a 
finite-element-method based eigenmode solver for the same anisotropic waveguide problem 
and better results were obtained [3], [4]. Please refer to Appendix II [4] for the detail. 
II. FDFD Analysis of 3D Photonic-Crystal Structures Involving Anisotropic Materials 
Photonic crystals (PCs) have continuously been an important topic of research due to 
their unique capability in controlling light propagation and achieving various optical device 
functionalities. The full three-dimensional (3D) PC structures can be difficult in fabrication. 
On the other hand, the 3D structure in the form of a slab with 2D PC pattern on it already has 
many useful applications, for example, for forming PC waveguides, enhancing the 
light-emitting-diode efficiency. For analysis and design of such PC slabs, the plane-wave 
expansion (PWE) method and the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method have been 
the most often employed methods. In this research, we formulate an eigenvalue equation for 
calculating band diagrams or modal dispersion characteristics of PC slabs with the possible 
inclusion of anisotropic permittivity materials. The formulation is based on the Yee’s mesh as 
often used in the FDTD, and is named the finite-difference frequency-domain (FDFD) 
method. With the well-known mesh, the derivation of the FDFD method is straightforward 
 2
showing that the PSFD method achieves computational accuracy on the order of 10-15. Then, 
this high-accuracy solver is used to analyze waveguide structures with more complicated 
geometries, such as the leaky six-air-hole fiber, for which self convergence of accuracy in 
calculated effective indexes is demonstrated to be on the orders of 10-14, and two rectilineal 
waveguides with sharp corners, i.e., the rib waveguide and the photonic wire. Comparison of 
the PSFD method obtained results for these more complicated waveguide structures with 
those from other methods in the literature is presented and discussed. Please refer to 
Appendix VI [20] for the detail. 
V. Electromagnetic Simulations of Metal-Insulator-Metal Plasmonic Devices Using the 
gendre Pseudospectral Time-Domain Method Le
Obl
    Plasmonic waveguides have been widely studied nowadays, for they possess certain 
peculiar characteristics compared with traditional dielectric waveguides, such as 
subwavelength mode size. The subwavelength-sized metallic waveguides can be useful in 
miniaturized integrated optical circuits. Furthermore, possible high transmittance of waves 
passing through a bend in such waveguide provides more flexibility and feasibility for 
manufacturing compact optical circuits and devices. The transmittance of sharp bend in 2D 
metal-dielectric-metal (MSM) or metal-insulator-metal (MIM) plasmonic waveguide was 
first studied by Veronis and Fan, in which less bending loss in a wide frequency range but 
high loss in visible light range, especially for wider waveguides, was found. In this research, 
we further analyze some titled and circular MSM waveguide bends, which have smoother 
shape variation than the sharp-bend one, and study their transmittance spectra [21]. The 
precise characteristics is simulated using the multidomain Legendre pseudospactral 
time-domain (PSTD) method. Besides having high accuracy, the multidomain pseudospectral 
method provides well-defined subdomain partitioning which can much closely fit the 
geometrical shapes of the waveguide and bend, avoiding the annoying staircase problems as 
in the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method. Due to the good transmittance 
properties of the plasmonic waveguide bends, optical ring resonators based on non-circular 
shaped ring structures have been proposed, like the rectangular and hexagonal structures. The 
circular ring has of course been studied. The bend shape indeed plays an important role in 
designing these resonators. Understanding in more detail the properties of different bends 
would facilitate more efficient design of related optical devices. Please refer to Appendix VII 
[21] for the detail. MIM plasmonic waveguide ring resonators of different ring shapes have 
further been simulated and studied [22]–[24]. The high numerical accuracy characteristics of 
the PSTD method are particularly suitable for modelling the highly localized field 
phenomenon of the plasmonic waveguide mode. Please refer to Appendix VIII [24] for the 
detail. 
VI. FDTD Simulation of Electromagnetic Wave Scattering by Periodic Structures with 
iquely Incident Waves 
    We have developed in-house 3D FDTD numerical models and applied them to different 
problems. Please refer to Appendix IX [25]. For FDTD simulations of electromagnetic wave 
scattering by periodic structures, normally incident wave onto the structure has been most 
often considered. Obliquely incident waves are of course often encountered. However, due to 
the requirement of corresponding periodic boundary conditions, the time-domain numerical 
model is more difficult to implement. In this research, we have been working on such 
extension in our model and propose a general split-field finite-difference time-domain 
(SF-FDTD) method based on the auxiliary differential equation (ADE) technique for 
analyzing dispersive periodic structures with an injected obliquely incident plane wave [26]. 
Employment of the ADE method reduces the variables, saves the memory, and shortens the 
 4
[11] J. Y. Lu, H. Z. Chen, C. H. Lai, H. C. Chang, B. You, T. A. Liu, and J. L. Peng, “Terahertz Tunable Filter 
Based on Antiresonant Reflecting Holllow Waveguides,” in 2010 International Conference on Optics and 
Photonics in Taiwan (OPT ’10) Proceedings (CD-ROM), paper OPT2-P-49, Southern Taiwan University, 
Tainan, Taiwan, R.O.C., December 3–4, 2010. 
[12] J. Y. Lu, H. Z. Chen, C. H. Lai, H. C. Chang, B You, T. A. Lin, and J. L. Peng, “Application of Metal-clad 
Antiresonant Reflecting Hollow Waveguides to Tunable Terahertz Notch Filter,” (OSA) Optics Express, 
Vol. 19, No. 1, pp. 162–167, 3 January 2011. 
[13] J. T. Lu, C. H. Lai, T. F. Tseng, H. Chen, Y. F. Tsai, I. J. Chen, Y. J. Hwang, H. C. Chang, and C. K. Sun, 
“Terahertz Polarization-Sensitive Rectangular Pipe Waveguides,” (OSA) Optics Express, Vol. 19, No. 22, 
pp. 21532–21539, 24 October 2011. 
[14] J. T. Lu, C. H. lai, H. Chen, T. F. Tseng, Y. F. Tsai, Y. J. Hwang, H. C. Chang, and C. K. Sun, “Low Loss 
Terahertz Air-core Pipe Waveguides,” in Proceedings of the 16th Opto-Electronics and Communications 
Conference (OECC 2011), paper 7C2_1 (2 pages), Kaohsiung, Taiwan, R.O.C., July 4–8, 2011. (invited 
paper) 
[15] J. T. Lu, C. H. Lai, T. F. Tseng, H. Chen, Y. F. Tsai, Y. J. Hwang, H. C. Chang, and C. K. Sun, “Terahertz 
Pipe-Waveguide-Based Directional Couplers,” (OSA) Optics Express, Vol. 19, No. 27, pp. 26883–26890, 
19 December 2011. 
[16] J. T. Lu, C. H. Lai, T. F. Tseng, H. Chen, Y. F. Tsai, Y. J. Hwang, H. C. Chang, and C. K. Sun, “Terahertz 
Pipe-Waveguide-Based Directional Couplers,” in 2011 International Photonics Conference (IPC 2011) 
Proceedings (CD-ROM), paper B-TH-II 2-2, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan, R.O.C., 
December 8–10, 2011. 
[17] H. C. Chang, “Numerical Methods in Eigenmode Analysis of Fiber Structures,” in Proceedings of the 16th 
Opto-Electronics and Communications Conference (OECC 2011), paper 5C3_1 (2 pages), Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan, R.O.C., July 4–8, 2011. (invited tutorial talk) 
[18] S. F. Chiang, B. Y. Lin, H. C. Chang, C. H. Teng, C. Y. Wang, and S. Y. Chung, “A Multidomain 
Pseudospectral Mode Solver for Optical Waveguide Analysis,” IEEE/OSA Journal of Lightwave 
Technology, Vol. 30, No. 13, pp. 2077–2087, July 1, 2012. 
[19] W. C. Chew and W. H. Weedon, “A 3D perfectly matched medium from modified Maxwell’s equations 
with stretched coordinates,” Microwave Opt. Technol. Lett., vol. 7, pp. 599–604, 1994. 
[20] C. Y. Wang, S. Y. Chung, C. H. Teng, C. P. Chen, and H. C. Chang, “High-Accuracy Waveguide 
Leaky-Mode Analysis Using a Multidomain Pseudospectral Frequency-Domain Method Incorporated with 
Stretched Coordinate PML,” submitted to IEEE/OSA Journal of Lightwave Technology., August 2012. (in 
revision) 
[21] S. Y. Chung, C. Y. Wang, C. H. Teng, C. P. Chen, and H. C. Chang, “Analysis of Metal-Dielectric-Metal 
Plasmonic Waveguide Bends Using the Multidomain Legendre Pseudospectral Time-Domain Method,” in 
Technical Digest of the Sixteenth International Conference on Microoptics (MOC’10), pp. 170–171, paper 
WP42, Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C., October 31–November 3, 2010. 
[22] H. C. Chang, S. Y. Chung, C. Y. Wang, C. H. Teng, and C. P. Chen, “Modelling Plasmonic Waveguide 
Resonators Using Pseudospectral Methods,” ICO International Conference on Information Photonics (IP 
2011), Ottawa, Canada, May 18–20, 2011. (invited paper) 
[23] H. C. Chang, C. Y. Wang, S. Y. Chung, B. Y. Lin, C. H. Teng, and C. P. Chen, “Legendre Pseudospectral 
Electromagnetic Analysis Methods for Plasmonics Research,” in Proceedings of the 8th Asia-Pacific 
Engineering Research Forum on Microwaves and Electromagnetic Theory (APMET 2010), pp. 115–122, 
Fukuoka Institute of Technology, Fukuoka, Japan, November 19–20, 2010. (invited paper) 
[24] S. Y. Chung, C. Y. Wang, C. H. Teng, C. P. Chen, and H. C. Chang, “Simulations of Dielectric and 
Plasmonic Waveguide-Coupled Ring Resonators Using the Legendre Pseudospectral Time-Domain 
Method,” IEEE/OSA Journal of Lightwave Technology, Vol. 30, No. 11, pp. 1733–1742, June 1, 2012. 
[25] H. C. Chang, M. Y. Chen, H. H. Hsiao, Y. H. Chen, and C. H. Lai, “Yee-Mesh-Based Finite-Difference 
Time-Domain and Frequency-Domain Analysis Methods for Photonics Research,” in 2010 International 
Conference on Optics and Photonics in Taiwan (OPT ’10) Proceedings (CD-ROM), paper OPT2-Invited 
talk 4, Southern Taiwan University, Tainan, Taiwan, R.O.C., December 3–4, 2010. (invited paper) 
[26] M. Y. Chen, C. H. Lai, and H. C. Chang, “A General Split-Field Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method 
Based on Auxiliary Differential Equations for Simulating Light Interactions with Dispersive Periodic 
Structures,” in Proceedings of Optics $ Photonics Taiwan, International Conference 2012 (OPTIC 2012) 
 6
2
0
0
0 0
0 0
0
0 0
0 0
j
k j
j
j
β
β
β
β
⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥= −⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥−⎣ ⎦⎣ ⎦⎣ ⎦
⎡ ⎤⎡ ⎤ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥− ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥−⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦
11 12 13x
y 21 22 23
31 32 33z
x
y
z
A A AE I U
E A A A I
VA A AE
EI U
I E
U E
Analysis of Anisotropic Planar Waveguides Using 
A Novel Full-Vector Finite-Difference 
Frequency-Domain Mode Solver 
 
Ming-yun Chen1, Hsuan-hao Liu1, Chu-yun Peng2, and Hung-chun Chang1, 2, 3, * 
1Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R. O. C. 
2Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R. O. C. 
3Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
* hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract  
A full-vector finite-difference frequency-domain mode 
solver is developed for mode analysis of planar optical 
waveguides containing materials of arbitrary permittivity 
tensor. The leakage losses are particularly determined for 
various optic-axis orientations in the anisotropic slab. 
1. Introduction 
Optical waveguide mode solvers play an important role 
in designing and developing integrated optical circuits. 
Finite-difference (FD) solvers have been attractive tools 
because they are based on simple formulations and easy 
in execution. In recently years, FD methods have been 
employed for analyzing anisotropic optical waveguides 
[1-3], but mostly only transverse anisotropy was 
considered. 
In this paper, we formulate an eigenmode solver based 
on the Yee mesh, named the finite-difference 
frequency-domain (FDFD) method, to study anisotropic 
planar waveguides containing materials of arbitrary 
permittivity tensor. We utilize the non-diagonal perfectly 
matched layer (PML) absorbing boundary condition [4] 
in our formulation to treat mode leakage. We find that 
preparing enough thickness of the PML is essential in 
obtaining correct imaginary part of the effective index 
for the considered anisotropic waveguides. 
2. Formulation 
Assuming the exp[j(ωt–βz)] dependence of the 
waveguide mode fields, where β is the mode propagation 
constant, and employing the Yee mesh and the central 
difference scheme, the six scalar equations of the 
complex Maxwell’s curl equations can be formulated 
into two matrix equations. For a general anisotropic 
dielectric medium, the permittivity tensor is 
non-diagonal with the elements: xxε , xyε , xzε , xyε , 
yyε , yzε , zxε , zyε , and zzε . By considering the 
relation between the electric-field and displacement 
vectors, the following eigenvalue matrix equation in 
terms of the electric field components can be obtained: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
where the sub-matrices ijA  are defined as below: 
( )yy zz yz zyε ε ε ε−= Λ11A , ( )xz zy xy zz
ε ε ε ε−= Λ12A  
( )xy yz xz yyε ε ε ε−= Λ13A , ( )yz zx yx zz
ε ε ε ε−= Λ21A  
( )xx zz xz zxε ε ε ε−= Λ22A , 
( )xz yx xx yzε ε ε ε−= Λ23A  
( )yx zy yy zxε ε ε ε−= Λ31A , ( )xy zx xx zy
ε ε ε ε−= Λ32A  
( )xx yy xy yxε ε ε ε−= Λ33A  
with (0 xx yy zz xy yz zx xz yx zy xz yy zxε ε ε ε ε ε ε ε ε ε ε ε εΛ = + + −)xy yx zz xx yz zyε ε ε ε ε ε− − , I  is the identity matrix, U and 
V  are square matrices which result from the operation 
of the central difference scheme, and each of xH , yH , 
zH , xD , yD , and zD  represents a column vector with 
its elements being the corresponding Yee-mesh field 
components over the whole computational domain. 
Because the material has a non-diagonal permittivity 
tensor, we adopt the general PML for anisotropic 
medium proposed in [4] as our absorbing boundary 
condition. 
FINITE-ELEMENT LEAKY-MODE ANALYSIS FOR ANISOTROPIC PLANAR 
WAVEGUIDES WITH ARBITRARY OPTIC-AXIS ORIENTATION 
 
Hsuan-Hao Liu1 and Hung-chun Chang1,2,3 
1Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, National Taiwan University 
2Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University 
3Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
E-Mail: hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract: A finite-element formulation with perfectly matched layers is developed for analyzing anisotropic 
planar optical waveguides with arbitrary optic-axis orientation. Due to the general optic-axis direction, the 
transverse-electric and transverse modes can couple with each other and the guided mode can couple to the 
radiating plane waves in the substrate, suffering leakage losses and resulting in complicated modal 
characteristics. Correct determination of the leakage losses of general leaky guided modes versus the optic-axis 
orientation is particularly emphasized. 
 
 
 1. INTRODUCTION 
The simple planar optical waveguide, when 
composed of anisotropic slabs such as the 
birefringent LiNbO3 and LiTaO3 crystals, may 
possess complicated modal characteristics [1]. 
Marcuse and Kaminow [2] analytically derived field 
solutions for symmetric slab optical waveguides 
made of such crystalline media with the optic-axis 
orientations varying in the coplanar plane (φ = 90o 
and θ varying in Fig. 1) and calculated the modal 
propagation constants. Due to the general optic-axis 
direction, the transverse-electric (TE) and transverse 
(TM) modes can couple with each other and the 
guided mode can couple to the radiating plane waves 
in the substrate, suffering leakage losses. The loss 
coefficient of such leaky mode versus the orientation 
angle of the optic axis as obtained from the 
imaginary part of the modal propagation constant 
was presented in [2]. In this paper, we develop a 
numerical eigenmode solver based on the 
finite-element (FE) formulation for anisotropic planar 
optical waveguides with more general situations, i.e., 
the optic-axis orientation varying not only in certain 
planes but in an arbitrary manner. Waveguide layer 
containing liquid crystals or formed by liquid crystals 
is such example when their molecular directors can 
be freely controlled. The anisotropic perfectly 
matched layers (PMLs) [3] are incorporated in the 
formulation to achieve the calculation of the modal 
leakage losses. FE analysis of planar arbitrarily 
anisotropic optical waveguides has been conducted 
before [4]–[7] but the PML boundary condition was 
not used there. Comparison of our FE results with 
those analytical ones of [2] will be done to confirm 
correct calculation of the complex modal propagation 
constant using our FE formulation. Then, modal 
characteristics for the more general cases involving 
arbitrary optic-axis orientations will be shown. The 
FE analysis method is briefly described in Section 2 
and numerical examples are presented and discussed 
in Section 4, with the conclusion drawn in Section 4. 
 
Fig. 1. Anisotropic planar waveguide structure 
with artificial PML regions. 
 
2. THE FINITE-ELEMENT ANALYSIS 
We consider a planar 2-D optical waveguide 
uniform in the y direction with wave modes 
propagating in the z direction, as shown in Fig. 1 
which depicts a five-layer model to be analyzed in 
this paper, in sequence composed of the artificial 
PML region, the cover, the film, the substrate, and 
another artificial PML region. The ordinary and 
extraordinary indices of refraction of the cover are 
noC and neC, respectively. Similarly, for the film they 
are noF and neF, and for the substrate they are noS and 
neS, respectively. In the governing complex 
Maxwell’s equations, the permittivity is thus a tensor 
in each of the cover, film, and substrate regions. That 
is, the nine elements of the permittivity as functions 
of θ and φ in Fig. 1 when the ordinary and 
extraordinary indices of refraction are no and ne, 
respectively, are 
 
2 2 2 2 2
2 2 2
2 2
2 2 2 2 2
sin θ cos
sin θ sin cos
sin θ cosθ cos
sin θ sin
xx o e o
xy yx e o
xz zx e o
yy o e o
ε n (n n )
ε ε (n n )
ε ε (n n )
ε n (n n )
φ
φ φ
φ
φ
−
−
−
−
= +
= =
= =
= +
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
                  (a) 
  
  (b) 
Fig. 3. (a) Re[neff]’s of TE and TM modes 
versus θ for φ = 90o. (b) The expanded plot of (a) 
for θ from 0o to 10o, 
 
 
                  (a) 
  
  (b) 
Fig. 4. FEM calculated modal losses in dB/cm 
versus θ for the (a) TE fundamental and (b) TE 
secondary modes. The analytical results given 
in Figs. 6 and 7 of [2] are plotted as black 
dashed curves for comparison. 
 
 
 
                  (a) 
  
  
Fig. 5. (a) Re[Ey] ve  x-position for the 
th  is TM-wave dominated when 
6. CONCLUSION 
We have form ent waveguide 
ei
(b) 
rsus the
FEM calculated fundamental TE mode for θ = 
5.5o in Fig. 4(a). (b) Re[Ey] versus the x-position 
for the FEM calculated secondary TE mode for 
θ = 5o in Fig. 4(b). 
 
at this hybrid mode
0o < φ < 45o and is TE-wave dominated when 45o < φ 
< 90o. It is seen in Fig. 6 that the dependence on φ is 
difficult to notice. The obtained modal losses in 
dB/cm versus θ, however, depend obviously on φ, as 
presented in Fig. 7 for φ = 10o, 30o, 50o, 70o, 80o, and 
85o. Note that the φ = 90o results has been shown in 
Fig. 4(a). 
 
ulated a finite-elem
genmode solver with perfectly matched layers for 
analyzing anisotropic planar optical waveguides with 
arbitrary optic-axis orientation. Correct determination 
of the leakage losses of general leaky guided modes 
versus the optic-axis orientation is particularly 
emphasized. Comparison of our FE results with 
analytical ones for φ = 90o in [2] confirms correct 
calculation of the complex modal propagation 
constant using our FE formulation. Then, modal 
characteristics for the more general cases involving 
arbitrary optic-axis orientations have been 
numerically determined and presented. One 
important finding is that the thickness of the PML 
needs to be carefully designed, possibly much larger 
than that conventionally used, to obtain correct 
leakage-loss values. 
Analysis of Photonic Crystal Slabs Involving Anisotropic Materials by 
Using the Finite-Difference Frequency-Domain Method 
 
Ming-Yun Chen1 and Hung-chun Chang1,2,3* 
 
1Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, 
R.O.C.  
2Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
3Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C.  
 * hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw, NSC 97-2221-E-002-043-MY2 
 
Abstract --- A finite-difference frequency-domain method based eigenvalue equation is derived to solve 
band diagrams or guided modes of photonic crystal slab structures which can contain anisotropic permittivity 
materials. The analysis of structures with isotropic materials is first validated by comparing with results based 
on the traditional plane-wave expansion method. Then an air-hole slab filled with nematic liquid crystals is 
studied to obtain the dispersion curves of the guided modes. 
Keywords: Finite-difference frequency-domain method, photonic crystal band diagrams, photonic 
crystal slabs, liquid crystals 
INTRODUCTION 
Photonic crystals (PCs) have continuously been an important topic of research due to their unique 
capability in controlling light propagation and achieving various optical device functionalities. The full three-
dimensional (3D) PC structures can be difficult in fabrication. On the other hand, the 3D structure in the form of 
a slab with 2D PC pattern on it already has many useful applications, for example, for forming PC waveguides 
[1,2], enhancing the light-emitting-diode efficiency [3,4]. For analysis and design of such PC slabs, the plane-
wave expansion (PWE) method [5] and the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method [1] have been the 
most often employed methods. In this paper, we formulate an eigenvalue equation for calculating band diagrams 
or modal dispersion characteristics of PC slabs with the possible inclusion of anisotropic permittivity materials. 
The formulation is based on the Yee’s mesh as often used in the FDTD, and is named the finite-difference 
frequency-domain (FDFD) method. With the well-known mesh, the derivation of the FDFD method is 
straightforward and is found to be numerically efficient. The established FDFD method is first compared with 
the PWE method [5] through an isotropic-material structure with dielectric rods in the slab, and very good 
agreement is obtained. Then an air-hole slab filled with nematic liquid crystals (LCs) is investigated and the 
dispersion curves of the guided modes are obtained. 
FORMULATION 
For deriving the eigenvalue algorithm for 3D band diagram with the possible inclusion of arbitrary 
permittivity tensors, we start with Maxwell’s curl equations written in the form of six component equations as 
   (1)          (2)             (3) 
         (4)                      (5)                         (6)     
where  represents the permeability of vacuum and  is the angular frequency. By employing the Yee’s mesh 
and the central difference scheme, we can obtain the following two matrix equations: 
  (7)     (8) 
where , , , , , and  are square matrices and each of ,  , , , , and  represents 
a column vector with its elements being the corresponding field components at the Yee mesh grids in the whole 
computational domain. The relation between the electric field  and the electric displacement field  for a 
general anisotropic dielectric is expressed as 
                                                   (9) 
and the slab height are  and , respectively.  
 
Figure 3. (a) Schematic of a square-arranged air-hole PC slab with the air holes filled with nematic LCs. 
(b) Definition of the optic axis orientation of the LC molecule. 
 
The elements of the relative permittivity tensor of the nematic LC are given as 
            
     
                                       (15) 
where  and  are the ordinary and extraordinary refractive indices of the nematic LC, 
 is the angle between the crystal -axis and the -axis, and  is the angle between the projection of the crystal 
-axis on the x-y plane and the -axis, as shown in Fig. 3(b). The FDFD calculated modal dispersion curves are 
shown in Fig. 4(a) for  and . Because of the anisotropic material, the guided modes would be 
hybrid ones with respect to the mirror plane . We plot the -field profiles in the x-y and y-z planes for 
the first and second guided modes at the X point in Fig. 4(c) and (d), respectively. 
 
Figure 4. (a) FDFD calculated band diagram for the LC-filled PC slab of Fig. 3(a). (b) Mode field 
patterns of  the first guided mode and (c) mode field patterns of the second guide mode at the X point. 
CONCLUSION 
We have derived an eigenvalue algorithm based on the FDFD method for calculating band diagrams of PC 
slab structures which can include anisotropic dielectric materials. The established algorithm is shown to agree 
very well with the PWE method for a typical PC slab made of isotropic materials. Then, the band diagram and 
hybrid guided modes of a square-lattice air-hole PC slab with the air holes filled with nematic LCs having non-
diagonal permittivity is successfully analyzed, demonstrating the capability of the developed method.  
REFERENCES 
[1] M. Qiu, Band gap effects in asymmetric photonic crystal slabs, Phys. Rev. B., vol. 66, 033010, 2002. 
[2] P. Shi, K. Huang, X. L. Kang, and Y. P. Li, Creation of large band gap with anisotropic annular photonic 
crystal slab structure, Opt. Express, vol. 18, pp.5221-5228, 2010. 
[3] Y. Peennec, B. D. Rouhani, E. H. E. Boudouti, C. Li, Y. E. Hassouani, J. O. Vasseur, N. Papanikolaou, S. 
Benchabane, Y. Laude, and A. Martinez, Simultaneous existence of phonoic and photonic band gaps in 
periodic crystal slabs, Opt. Express, vol. 18, pp. 14301-14310, 2010. 
[4] E. Matioli, E. Rangel, M. Iza, B. Fleury, N. Pfaff, J. Speck, E. Hu, and C. Weisbuch, High extraction 
efficiency light-emitting diodes based on embedded air-gap photonic-crystals, Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 96, 
031108, 2010. 
[5] S. G. Johnson, S. Fan, P. R. Villeneuve, and J. D. Joannopoulos, Guided modes in photonic crystals slabs, 
Phys. Rev. B., vol. 60, pp. 5751-5758, 1999. 
[6] C, Yu and H. C. Chang, Compact finite-difference frequency-domain method for analysis of two-
dimensional photonic crystals, Opt. Express, vol. 12, pp. 1397-1408, 2004. 
of the dielectric-coated metallic THz waveguide [8,9], which is
a guiding structure originally developed for IR transmission
[17,18] and was usually fabricated by coating a dielectric layer
in the inner surface of a metallic hollow waveguide. It was
shown that the inner dielectric coating can reduce the IR
transmission loss of the pure metallic waveguide [17,19]. For
THz operations, effects of adding a dielectric layer inside a
metallic hollow waveguide (metal only versus metal dielec-
tric) have been intensively investigated on loss [8,9], mode
property [20], and dispersion [21]. However, the effects of add-
ing a metallic layer outside a dielectric hollow waveguide (di-
electric only versus metal dielectric) have not been conducted
so far. Here, we investigate the spectral effect by inspecting
loss spectra of the HE11, HE21, TE01, and TM01 modes of the
THz pipe waveguide. With metallic coating, it is found that the
spectrum of the TE01 mode still shifts half-period and the spec-
trum of the TM01 mode still remains unchanged, like their
counterparts in the 1D case. For the HE11 and HE21 modes,
the periods of their loss spectra become only one half, which
is attributed to the hybrid-mode nature (mixed TE and TM) of
the HE modes.
2. METAL-COATED SLAB-TYPE
ANTIRESONANT REFLECTING HOLLOW
WAVEGUIDES
Figure 1(a) depicts the structure of a slab-type antiresonant
reflecting hollow waveguide. We assume the core width w
is 8mm and the cladding thickness t is 1:4mm. The cladding
material is assumed to be poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA)
with refractive index n ¼ 1:6 − j0:015 (material absorption is
considered) [22]. At the outer side of each cladding, an alumi-
num layer is coated and its thickness is assumed to be 4 μm
(larger than the skin depth). Dispersive refractive index of alu-
minum in the THz range is determined according to the Drude
model [23].
To examine the effect of metallic coating, loss spectra in
terms of attenuation constants for both the bare case (without
metallic coating) and the metal-coated case are calculated. In
the calculation, we first neglect the material absorption of the
cladding, i.e., only the real part of the refractive index for
PMMA is considered (n ¼ 1:6). Calculated results are shown
in Fig. 2(a) for the bare waveguide and in Fig. 2(b) for the
metal-coated one. From Fig. 2(a), clearly, the loss spectra
of the bare slab-type antiresonant reflecting hollowwaveguide
exhibit similar features to those of the cylindrical pipe wave-
guide [12,24]. To be specific, the loss spectra have periodic
characteristics with local maximum losses occurring at the
resonant frequencies of the cladding and local minimum
losses occurring near the antiresonant frequencies. In addi-
tion, the resonant frequencies are the same for both TE and
TM modes, but the attenuation constant is smaller for the TE
mode because the TE mode has a larger reflection coefficient
than the TM one. The resonant frequencies of the cladding,
i.e., the frequencies in Fig. 2(a) at which discontinuities occur,
are given by [24]
f m ¼
mc
2t
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
n2 − 1
p ; m ¼ 1; 2; 3; :::::; ð1Þ
where c is the speed of light in vacuum and m is an integer.
The antiresonant frequencies can also be obtained from
Eq. (1) by replacing m with (mþ 0:5). Moreover, the band-
width of each passband, which can be approximated as the
period of the resonant frequencies, is
f B ¼ f mþ1 − f m ¼
c
2t
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
n2 − 1
p : ð2Þ
When metallic layers are coated outside the claddings, from
Fig. 2(b), it is found the attenuation constants become drama-
tically smaller for both polarizations. In other words, the leaky
loss of the antiresonant reflecting hollow waveguide could be
significantly suppressed by the metallic coating.
We then take the material absorption of the cladding into
account, and the complex refractive index of the PMMA is
now considered for simulation. The calculated loss spectra for
the bare and metal-coated waveguides are shown in Figs. 3(a)
and 3(b), respectively. By comparing Figs. 2(a) and 3(a), the
respective spectra for the bare waveguide without and with
material absorption considered, we find positions of the dis-
continuity frequencies are the same, indicating that the
material absorption does not affect the spectral positions.
However, magnitudes of the attenuation constants increase
a little, which is because, in addition to the leaky waveguide
loss, the material loss is counted now for the total propagation
loss. When the material absorption is considered for simula-
tion, comparison between Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) shows that the
attenuation constants of the metal-coated waveguide are only
a little lower than those of the bare waveguide. Therefore,
although the metallic coating can efficiently suppress the lea-
ky loss inherent in the antiresonant reflecting hollow wave-
guide, the material absorption is still dominant in the
propagation loss.
In Fig. 3(b), obviously, the spectra of the TE and TM modes
for the metal-coated slab-type hollow waveguide do not
Fig. 1. (Color online) Structures of the THz antiresonant reflecting
hollow waveguides with metallic layers placed outside the dielectric
claddings. (a) Metal-coated slab-type hollow waveguide (1D case).
(b) Slab-type hollow waveguide with metallic layers movable off the
claddings (1D case). (c) Metal-coated cylindrical hollow waveguide
(2D case).
Fig. 2. (Color online) Loss spectra of the slab-type antiresonant re-
flecting hollow waveguide with material absorption not considered.
(a) Bare case, (b) metal-coated case.
Lai et al. Vol. 28, No. 9 / September 2011 / J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 2201
there will be a local maximum attenuation constant at this
antiresonant frequency. In other words, for the metal-coated
slab-type antiresonant reflecting hollow waveguide, the TE
mode has local minimum losses at the resonant frequencies
and local maximum losses at the antiresonant frequencies,
being totally opposite to the behavior of the bare waveguide.
Hence, the entire spectrum, including the attenuation peaks,
shifts half-period for the TE mode when a metallic layer is
coated, and this spectral shift is generated owing to the
boundary condition at the metal–cladding interface. On the
contrary, for the TM mode, the electric field magnitudes at
both sides of the metal–cladding interface are allowed to
be different. The electric field in the cladding, as can be seen
in Figs. 5(c) and 5(d), can still start its oscillation from the
outer cladding interface with a local maximum magnitude
for the metal-coated waveguide, like what it does in the bare
case. Therefore, positions of the loss spectrum do not change.
We also examine the reflection coefficients of the TE and
TM modes. We first calculate the incident angle at the metal–
cladding interface. (For the detailed procedure, please refer to
the Appendix in [24].) The incident angle is frequency depen-
dent and ranges from 38:2° to 38:8° for both modes over the
simulated frequency range. Then, by using the Fresnel equa-
tions, reflection coefficients at the metal–cladding interface
are calculated. The values are complex and also frequency de-
pendent. However, it is found the reflection coefficient of the
TE mode is very close to −1 while that of the TM mode is al-
most equivalent to 1. In other words, the phase is shifted by π
between the TE and TM modes at the metal–cladding inter-
face, resulting in a half-period spectral shift when metallic
layers are coated outside the dielectric claddings.
Similar metal-coated structure has been studied at the op-
tical-frequency regime [15]. Much different from what we illu-
strated here for the THz waves, the optical version showed
that there is an obvious spectral shift for the TM mode while
the spectral shift for the TE mode is quite less than half-
period. In [15], the gold layer is assumed for the coating and
its permittivity at the operating wavelength of 0:663 μm is
−9:9þ j1 [25], which is not large enough to make the electric
field magnitude inside the metal vanish. Thus, the exhibited
optical behavior is different from the THz one, owing to
the different permittivity characteristics of metal between
the optical and THz frequencies.
3. EFFECT OF MOVING THE METALLIC
LAYER OUTWARD
In this section, we assume, at the outer side of each cladding,
the metallic layer is not just coated; instead, as shown in
Fig. 1(b), the metallic layer is movable with a distance d from
the cladding. Because only the spectral positions of the TE
mode will be affected by the metallic layer, only the behavior
of the TE mode is investigated in this section.
We first calculate the loss spectra for various d values and
the calculated results are shown in Fig. 6. For the sake of
clarity, only one passband is displayed for each d value.
Clearly, the result with d ¼ 0, which is equivalent to the case
of metallic coating, has the largest spectral shift with respect
to the passband position of the bare waveguide. As d in-
creases, the spectral shift decreases and becomes nearly zero
when d is large enough. It is obvious when d ¼ 1; 200 μm, the
passband position almost coincides with that of the bare
waveguide.
Then, we want to estimate the spectral shift. Before per-
forming the estimation, preliminary examination of the elec-
tric field distributions is conducted for qualitative analysis.
The field distributions calculated at 150GHz with d ¼ 200,
400, and 1; 200 μm are shown in Figs. 7(a)–7(c), respectively.
Note that the dotted lines at y ¼ −4mm (the inner cladding
interface) and y ¼ −5:4mm (the outer cladding interface) in-
dicate the boundaries of the dielectric cladding, while the
third dotted line indicates the position of the metallic layer.
We pay particular attention to the electric field magnitude
at the outer cladding interface. In Fig. 7, there is a difference
between the field magnitude at the outer cladding interface
and the amplitude of the sinusoidal field distribution inside
the cladding region. As the distance d between the cladding
and the metallic layer increases, the difference decreases.
When d ¼ 1; 200 μm, the electric field magnitude at the outer
cladding interface is nearly equal to the sinusoidal amplitude,
similar to the condition of the bare waveguide, therefore the
spectral position almost coincides with that of the bare wa-
veguide.
To estimate the spectral shift, we choose the frequency
positions of the attenuation peaks as the benchmark for com-
parison. The spectral shift can be estimated according to the
phase condition as described below, and the related phase re-
lationship inside the cladding region is illustrated in Fig. 8,
where the absolute value of the electric filed is plotted. The
total phase Pt of the electric field in the cladding with thick-
ness t is given by
Fig. 6. (Color online) Loss spectra of the slab-type antiresonant
reflecting hollow waveguide with metallic layers placed outside the
claddings. Only one passband is shown in the figure.
Fig. 7. (Color online) Electric field distributions of the slab-type
antiresonant reflecting hollow waveguide with metallic layers
placed outside the claddings. (a) d ¼ 200 μm, (b) d ¼ 400 μm, and
(c) d ¼ 1; 200 μm.
Lai et al. Vol. 28, No. 9 / September 2011 / J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 2203
proportional to Pi, according to Eq. (11), similar trends can be
observed for the spectral shift.
Calculated spectral shifts for the four attenuation peaks are
shown in Fig. 10. It is observed that, as the distance d between
the metal and the cladding increases, the spectral shift de-
creases and will approach zero finally. In addition, the spec-
tral shift is smaller at higher operating frequencies. Note that
the largest spectral shift occurs at d ¼ 0, i.e., the metallic layer
is just coated outside the cladding. As stated previously in
Section 2, for the case of metallic coating, the electric field
magnitude of the TE mode is zero at the outer cladding inter-
face (the metal–cladding interface), which yields an initial
phase Pi ¼ π=2. Hence, from Eq. (11), the maximum spectral
shift occurring with d ¼ 0 is Δf ¼ f B=2. Recently, a tunable
THz notch filter was experimentally demonstrated [16] based
on the same structure discussed in this section, i.e., the slab-
type antiresonant reflecting hollow waveguide with metallic
layers movable outside the dielectric claddings. Measured
spectral shifts show the same trend as that of the simulated
results shown in Fig. 10. Moreover, experimental data also
confirm that the maximum spectral shift is about half of
the passband width. Therefore, for such filter to increase
its spectral tuning range, i.e., to have a larger spectral shift,
a broader bandwidth is necessary, which can be achieved
by decreasing the cladding thickness according to Eq. (2).
4. METAL-COATED CYLINDRICAL
ANTIRESONANT REFLECTING HOLLOW
WAVEGUIDES
After discussing the spectral effect of adding metallic layers
outside the 1D antiresonant reflecting hollow waveguide, in
this section, we further investigate the spectral effect for the
2D structure, i.e., the cylindrical antiresonant reflecting
hollow waveguide shown in Fig. 1(c). The core diameter is
assumed to be D ¼ 8mm and the cladding thickness is as-
sumed to be t ¼ 0:5mm. The cladding material is still PMMA
and a 0:2mm thick aluminum layer is coated outside the
PMMA cladding.
We first examine the loss spectra of the bare cylindrical
hollow waveguide. Figure 11 shows the calculated results
for the HE11, TE01, HE21, and TM01 modes. It is obvious that
the four modes exhibit similar periodic behaviors and their
spectral periods are the same. The resonant frequencies
and the passband width can be obtained from Eqs. (1) and (2),
respectively.
Then, the spectral effect of metallic coating is investigated
and the calculated results are shown in Fig. 12. Like what has
been observed for the 1D case, the spectrum in Fig. 12(b) for
the TE01 mode shifts half-period, and the spectral position in
Fig. 12(d) for the TM01 mode remains unchanged. For the
HE11 and HE21 modes, as shown in Figs. 12(a) and 12(c), it
is interesting to find that their periods become only one half
when a metallic layer is coated outside the dielectric cladding.
This particular phenomenon can be attributed to the hybrid-
mode nature (mixed TE and TM) of the HEmodes because the
attenuation peak frequencies of the HE11 and HE21 modes co-
incide with those of both TE01 and TM01 modes. For example,
for the x-polarized HE11 mode, its electric fields along the x
and y axes are normal (like TM) and parallel (like TE) to the
interface, respectively. At the resonant frequencies of the
cladding, like the TM01 mode, the normal-to-interface electric
field will cause a local maximum attenuation constant. On the
other hand, at the antiresonant frequencies, like the TE01
mode, the parallel-to-interface electric field also yields a local
maximum attenuation constant. As a result, the passband be-
tween two adjacent resonant frequencies splits into two parts,
and the period of the spectrum becomes only one half of the
original one.
In practical applications, it might be desirable to determine
the optimum cladding thickness for an operating frequency f ,
so that the propagation loss is minimized. For the bare cylind-
rical hollow waveguide, it is the case with antiresonant
Fig. 10. (Color online) Spectral shifts of the slab-type antiresonant
reflecting hollow waveguide with metallic layers placed outside the
claddings.
Fig. 11. (Color online) Loss spectra of the bare cylindrical antireso-
nant reflecting hollow waveguide for the HE11, TE01, HE21, and TM01
modes.
Fig. 12. (Color online) Spectral effects due to metallic coating for the
cylindrical antiresonant reflecting hollow waveguide. (a) HE11 mode,
(b) TE01 mode, (c) HE21 mode, and (d) TM01 mode.
Lai et al. Vol. 28, No. 9 / September 2011 / J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 2205
Terahertz antiresonant-reflecting-hollow-waveguide-
based directional coupler
operating at antiresonant frequencies
Chih-Hsien Lai,1 Chi-Kuang Sun,2,3 and Hung-chun Chang2,3,4,*
1Department of Electronic Engineering, Hwa Hsia Institute of Technology, Taipei 23568, Taiwan
2Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan
3Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan
4Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan
*Corresponding author: hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw
Received June 23, 2011; accepted July 27, 2011;
posted August 12, 2011 (Doc. ID 149772); published September 12, 2011
We report a particular coupling phenomenon occurring in the directional coupler composed of two touching ter-
ahertz antiresonant reflecting hollow waveguides. Unlike conventional directional couplers where one even system
mode and one odd system mode are excited, numerical results indicate that three (one even and two odd) system
modes participate in the power transfer process at the antiresonant frequencies. As a result, the coupling length can
be significantly reduced, and it is shown here to be less than 300 wavelengths. © 2011 Optical Society of America
OCIS codes: 060.1810, 130.2790, 260.3090.
Development of low-loss terahertz (THz) waveguides has
attracted growing interest in recent years [1–4]. The cap-
ability to effectively deliver THz waves is important for
system integration and application realization. Based
on various waveguide structures, THz devices such as
directional couplers [5–7] were reported previously.
Recently, the pipe waveguide was proposed for THz
waveguiding [8,9]. It is a hollow waveguide with a large
air core surrounded by thin dielectric cladding, and its
guiding mechanism is similar to that of the antiresonant
reflecting optical waveguide (ARROW) [10]. Low
propagation losses were demonstrated around the anti-
resonant frequencies with the attenuation constants
well below 0:005 cm−1. Low bending losses were also ob-
served [11]. Having explored the properties of the pipe
waveguide, the following step is to implement functional
THz devices, e.g., the directional coupler, based on such
antiresonant reflecting hollow waveguides (ARRHWs).
In the optical regime, ARROW-based directional cou-
plers have been largely studied [12–15]. The advantage
over conventional waveguide couplers is that the cou-
pling length does not increase with waveguide separa-
tion, owing to the leaky nature of ARROWs. Therefore,
remote coupling can be achieved. However, coupling
lengths of previously reported ARROW-based directional
couplers often require several thousand or even several
tens of thousands of wavelengths, which might be accep-
table for optical applications but is unpractical for
THz waves.
In this Letter, we theoretically investigate the coupling
characteristics of the THz directional coupler composed
of two identical ARRHWs. Unlike previous ARROW-
based directional couplers where there is a separation
region between the coupled waveguides, the one we in-
vestigated here is with the two waveguides touching each
other. We show that the coupling length, when operating
at the antiresonant frequencies, is significantly reduced
in comparison with those operating at other frequencies.
This particular coupling phenomenon and the related me-
chanism will be analyzed and explained in detail later.
The structure of the ARRHW-based directional
coupler is shown in Fig. 1, where two identical slab-type
ARRHWs are placed touching each other. The slab-type
ARRHW can be treated as the one-dimensional version of
the pipe waveguide [8] with the air core sandwiched by
two thin dielectric cladding slabs. For each ARRHW, we
assume the core width w ¼ 5mm, the cladding thickness
t ¼ 0:5mm, and the refractive indices ncl ¼ 1:4 and
na ¼ 1 (air). Resonant and antiresonant frequencies for
a single ARRHW can be obtained by [9]
f i ¼
Nic
4t
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
n2cl − n
2
a
q ; i ¼ r or a; ð1Þ
where Nr ¼ 2m for resonant frequencies, Na ¼ 2m − 1
for antiresonant frequencies, m ¼ 1; 2; 3;…, and c is
the speed of light in vacuum. For the parameters as-
sumed here, antiresonant frequencies of the first three
passbands obtained from Eq. (1) are 153.1, 459.3, and
765:5GHz, respectively. In the following discussion, only
the polarization of TE is considered.
A Gaussian beam of unity power with beam waist
2w0 ¼ 3:6mm is launched into the input end of ARRHW
1. Power evolution along the propagation distance z is
simulated by using the finite-difference beam propaga-
tion method (BPM) [16]. When calculating the powers
of each waveguide P1 and P2, only the amount in the
air core region is counted. We first observe the result
Fig. 1. (Color online) Structure of the THz directional coupler
composed of touching ARRHWs.
3590 OPTICS LETTERS / Vol. 36, No. 18 / September 15, 2011
0146-9592/11/183590-03$15.00/0 © 2011 Optical Society of America
similar to that shown in Fig. 3(a), while for the odd sys-
tem modes, either O1 or O2, the field distribution in the
air core is much different from the Gaussian-like profile
shown in Fig. 3(b). Note that the difference in field
distribution would cause the transverse phase to deviate,
as clearly observed at the antiresonant frequency in
Fig. 4(b), where the transverse phase in the air core is
plotted. Figure 4(c) shows field profiles of the two odd
system modes, which clearly illustrates how the field
distribution varies when the frequency approaches the
antiresonant one.
Figure 5(a) shows (in log scale) the coupling length Lc
obtained by the BPM as a function of frequency (circles).
In addition, Lc obtained by Eq. (2) is also plotted for com-
parison (dashed line). Note that only one odd system
mode is necessary for Eq. (2), and it is chosen between
O1 and O2 with the one having a smaller modal index
difference with respect to the E1 mode. Obviously, Lc
at the antiresonant frequency is much shorter than at
other frequencies. Moreover, it is interesting to find that,
at 460GHz, Lc obtained by the BPM (16:8 cm) is very
close to the one predicted by Eq. (2) (17:8 cm). The co-
incidence indicates that the three-mode-beating behavior
occurring at the antiresonant frequency could be ap-
proximately predicted by the two-mode-beating formula.
In fact, at 460GHz, the superposition of the odd system
modes O1 and O2 at the input end, i.e., ao1ψo1 þ ao2ψo2,
where ψo1, ψo2, ao1, and ao2 are the field distributions and
excited modal amplitudes of O1 and O2, respectively, can
be treated as a “pseudo” odd system mode, which has
a field profile like Gaussian, as shown in the inset of
Fig. 5(a). From Fig. 4(a), it is clear that the differences
in modal index for O1 and O2 modes, respectively, with
respect to that of the E1 mode, are almost the same.
Therefore, at the distance where O1 and E1 are out of
phase, O2 and E1 would be out of phase too. As a result,
the pseudo odd system mode would be out of phase with
respect to E1 at the same distance, which causes the THz
power to be transferred from one ARRHW to another.
This explains why Eq. (2) is able to predict the coupling
length at the antiresonant frequencies. Furthermore, at
the antiresonant frequencies, the field distribution in the
core region of either O1 or O2 is highly different in shape
from that of E1, which causes a large modal index differ-
ence between the even and odd system modes and thus
yields a very short Lc according to Eq. (2). Finally, we
examine the situation where an air gap exists between
the two ARRHWs and calculate Lc by the BPM. Results
shown in Fig. 5(b) indicate that Lc increases significantly
when there is an air gap. Clearly, Lc varies periodically
with the gap width, as observed in previous ARROW-
based couplers [12,13,15]. Note that, in [13], where the
coupler has a central spacing region between the two
ARROWs, a similar three-mode-beating phenomenon
was described. This phenomenon, which occurs when
the width of the central spacing meets the resonant con-
dition, leads to the local minima of Lc, and the resultant
Lcs are about several thousand wavelengths. Here we
show that the Lc can be significantly reduced to several
hundred wavelengths if the central spacing is absent.
In conclusion, we have investigated the THz direc-
tional coupler composed of two touching ARRHWs.
The calculated attenuation constant is relatively low
for this coupler. Moreover, compared with other frequen-
cies, the coupling length at the antiresonant frequencies
can be very short, i.e., less than 300 wavelengths, owing
to a three-mode-beating behavior. With the desirable
characteristics of low loss and short coupling length, this
THz directional coupler would be promising for future
THz applications.
This work was supported by the National Science
Council of Taiwan (NSCT) under grants NSC99-2221-E-
002-107-MY2 and NSC100-2218-E-146-001, by National
Taiwan University under grant 99R80306, and by the
Ministry of Education of Taiwan under “The Aim of Top
University Plan” grant.
References
1. K. Wang and D. M. Mittleman, Nature 432, 376 (2004).
2. L.-J. Chen, H.-W. Chen, T.-F. Kao, J.-Y. Lu, and C.-K. Sun,
Opt. Lett. 31, 308 (2006).
3. B. Bowden, J. A. Harrington, and O. Mitrofanov, Opt. Lett.
32, 2945 (2007).
4. A. Atakaramians, S. V. Afshar, B. M. Fischer, D. Abbott, and
T. M. Monro, Opt. Express 16, 8845 (2008).
5. H.-W. Chen, C.-M. Chiu, C.-H. Lai, J.-L. Kuo, P.-J. Chiang,
Y.-J. Hwang, H.-C. Chang, and C.-K. Sun, J. Lightwave
Technol. 27, 1489 (2009).
6. A. Dupuis, J.-F. Allard, D. Morris, K. Stoeffler, C. Dubois,
and M. Skorobogatiy, Opt. Express 17, 8012 (2009).
7. K. Nielsen, H. K. Rasmussen, P. U. Jepsen, and O. Bang,
Opt. Lett. 35, 2879 (2010).
8. C.-H. Lai, Y.-C. Hsueh, H.-W. Chen, Y.-J. Hwang, H.-C.
Chang, and C.-K. Sun, Opt. Lett. 34, 3457 (2009).
9. C.-H. Lai, B. You, J.-Y. Lu, T.-A. Liu, J.-L. Peng, C.-K. Sun,
and H.-C. Chang, Opt. Express 18, 309 (2010).
10. M. A. Duguay, Y. Kokubun, and T. L. Koch, Appl. Phys. Lett.
49, 13 (1986).
11. J.-T. Lu, Y.-H. Hsueh, Y.-R. Huang, Y.-J. Hwang, and
C.-K. Sun, Opt. Express 18, 26332 (2010).
12. M. Mann, Y. Trutschel, C. Wächter, L. Leine, and F. Lederer,
Opt. Lett. 16, 805 (1991).
13. R. Muschall, F. Lederer, and U. Trutschel, Int. J. Optoelec-
tron. 8, 537 (1993).
14. Y.-H. Chen and Y.-T. Huang, J. Lightwave Technol. 14,
1507 (1996).
15. M. Shamonin, M. Lohmeyer, and P. Hertel, Appl. Opt. 36,
635 (1997).
16. J. Yamauchi, Propagating Beam Analysis of Optical
Waveguides (Research Studies, 2003).
17. C.-P. Yu and H.-C. Chang, Opt. Express 12, 6165 (2004).
18. V. R. Chinni, T. C. Huang, P.-K. A. Wai, C. R. Menyuk, and
G. J. Simonis, J. Lightwave Technol. 13, 1530 (1995).
Fig. 5. (Color online) (a) Coupling length as a function of
frequency. (Inset) Normalized field amplitude (absolute value)
of the pseudo odd system mode ao1ψo1 þ ao2ψo2 at 460GHz.
(b) Coupling length at 460GHz with an air gap existing between
the two ARRHWs.
3592 OPTICS LETTERS / Vol. 36, No. 18 / September 15, 2011
JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. X, NO. X, 2012 2
the shapes of the waveguide structure interfaces can fit the sub-
domain boundaries, facilitating accurate fulfillment of the field
continuity conditions across the interfaces. In this paper, this
new method is adopted and implemented with the stretched
coordinate PML [27], [28], which is quite suitable for first-
order equations, for solving waveguide leaky modes with high
accuracy. We will show in the numerical examples that the
inclusion of the stretched coordinate PML still maintains high
accuracy of the PSFD method, and the position where the PML
region is placed has negligible effect on the computation ac-
curacy, even for waveguides with no need in effective indexes
of the PML like the fiber waveguide. It will be shown that this
PSFD solver can achieve 10−15 ∼ 10−14 numerical accuracy
for solving leaky-mode waveguide structures without singular-
field corners. In comparison of our PSFD solution for a
leaky six-air-hole fiber [17] with that from a recently reported
new high-order boundary-integral-equation (BIE) method [19]
which was shown to achieve exponential convergence and
extremely high accuracy, it is found that the agreement in the
calculated effective index is to the order of 10−13 for both
the real and imaginary parts. The PSFD analysis will then be
applied to the conventional rib waveguide [29] and the more
complicated photonic wire [30] for which the application of
the BIE method would become more difficult.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. The governing
Maxwell’s equations with the penalty scheme, the implemen-
tation of the stretched coordinate PML, and the eigenmode
solver formulation are described in Section II. The Legendre
pseudospectral method is introduced in Section III. Then,
numerical examples are given and discussed in Section IV,
where several one-dimensional (1-D) (slab) and 2-D (circular)
leaky-mode waveguides, including W-type [9], [31] and M-
type [5], [6] waveguides, are analyzed first, followed by the
examination of the more complicated 2-D structures such as
the six-air-hole fiber and the photonic wire. The conclusion is
drawn in Section V.
II. PHYSICAL EQUATIONS, PML, AND PENALTY-SCHEME
FORMULATION
In a source-free and linear isotropic medium with permit-
tivity ε and permeability µ, the time-harmonic Maxwell’s curl
and divergent equations for frequency-domain computation are
written as
∇×E = −jωµH (1a)
∇×H = jωεE (1b)
∇ · (εE) = 0 (1c)
∇ · (µH) = 0 (1d)
where ω is the angular frequency. Without loss of generality,
waves are considered to propagate along the z-axis in the
waveguide, i.e., no structural variations along the z direc-
tion. Therefore, spatial derivative with respect to z becomes
∂/∂z = −jβ, where β is the modal propagation constant. For
convenience, we normalize the magnetic field H to
√
ε0/µ0H.
Traditionally, waveguide modes are solved by second order
Helmholtz equations, like in [23]. A new PSFD method has
been recently developed in [24] using first order formulations
instead, which we adopt in this paper as well. In brief, two of
the eight equations in (1) without jβ terms are removed, i.e.,
−jk0Hy + ∂Ez
∂x
= jβEx (2a)
jk0Hx +
∂Ez
∂y
= jβEy (2b)
−∂Ex
∂x
− ∂Ey
∂y
= jβEz (2c)
jk0εrEy +
∂Hz
∂x
= jβHx (2d)
−jk0εrEx + ∂Hz
∂y
= jβHy (2e)
−∂Hx
∂x
− ∂Hy
∂y
= jβHz. (2f)
These six equations lead to an eigen-problem in the form,
A˜x˜ = λx˜, for solving waveguide modes, with A˜ containing
the differential operators, the eigenvalue λ equal to jβ to
be searched, and the eigenvector x˜ composed of the electric
and magnetic fields of the corresponding mode. This eigen-
problem can be solved using efficient iterative algorithms such
as the bi-conjugate gradient (BiCG) method along with the
shifted inverse power method (SIPM).
For handling boundary conditions between materials, the
penalty scheme as utilized in [24] is also adopted here. First,
(2) can be rewritten as
jk0Mq +Ax
∂q
∂x
+Ay
∂q
∂y
= jβAzq (3)
where k0 = ω
√
ε0µ0, q = [εrEx, εrEy , Ez, Hx, Hy, Hz]
T
,
Az = diag[1/εr, 1/εr,−εr, 1, 1,−1]T , and the elements of
the matrices M , Ax, and Ay are simply 0, 1, and −1
depending on the presence of fields in (2). Next, the penalty
term P = [δ/(2ω0)]S(n)Λ[R(n)−RBC(n)] is added into (2).
The diagonal matrix Λ is composed of the eigenvalues of the
matrix A(n), the matrix S(n) is composed of the eigenvectors
of A(n), with A(n) = nxAx+nyAy , in which nx and ny are
defined below, and the characteristic state vectors R(n) are
defined as R(n) = ST (n)q = [R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6]T as
in [24]. Considering boundary conditions at the interface be-
tween two adjacent sub-domains I and II in the multidomain
approach, with the unit normal vector nˆ = nxxˆ+nyyˆ perpen-
dicular to the interface with the relationship nˆ = nˆI = −nˆII ,
where the superscripts I and II specify the sub-domains where
the vectors are defined at the interface, we add RII
2
to RI
1
and
add RII6 to RI5 with the aids of physical boundary conditions[24] and obtain
R
I
1 +R
II
2 =
1√
2
[nˆ · (εIrE¯It − εIIr E¯IIt )− (EIz − EIIz )] = 0 (4a)
R
I
5 +R
II
6 =
1√
2
[nˆ · (H¯It − H¯IIt ) + (HIz −HIIz )] = 0. (4b)
Equations (4a) and (4b) lead to RI
1
= −RII
2
and RI
5
= −RII
6
,
respectively, i.e., RIBC
1
= −RII
2
and RIBC
2
= −RII
1
, which
means that if we want to add considerations of physical
boundary conditions into (2) or (3) at material interfaces of
two adjacent sub-domains, we can simply place characteristic
state vectors of (4) into the penalty terms. Then, after matrix
multiplications of S(n), Λ, and [R(n) − RBC(n)] in the
penalty term P , the six first-order Maxwell’s equations in
(2) for sub-domain I , with the added P and straightforward
JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. X, NO. X, 2012 4
df(ξi)
dξ
≈
N∑
j=0
dlj(ξi)
dξ
f(ξj) =
N∑
j=0
Dijf(ξj) . (13)
The differential coefficient Dij is defined in [23] and [24] by
Dij =


−N(N+1)
4
, i = j = 0
N(N+1)
4
, i = j = N
0 , 0 < (i = j) < N
PN (ξi)
PN (ξj )
1
ξi−ξj
i 6= j
(14)
The so-called differential matrix operator with Dij elements
can thus be substituted into the spatial derivative in (13) as
∂
∂ξ
=


D00 D01 · · · D0N
D10 D11 · · · D1N
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
DN0 DN1 · · · DNN

 . (15)
This is the key feature of the Legendre PSFD method, i.e., for
the 1-D example, the derivative of f(ξ) at an LGL point ξi in
the region [−1, 1] can be approximated in terms of f(ξ) values
at the N+1 LGL points in the same region. Therefore, spatial
derivatives of fields in (5) and (6) can be simply replaced by
this differential matrix operator Dij in the A˜x˜ = λx˜ eigen-
problem system, and the resultant eigen-problem becomes a
sparse matrix having penalty, PML, and repeatedly appearing
Dij terms in the A˜ matrix. Note that matrix sparsity will give
better computational behavior, including less memory usage
and faster computation. Besides, for solving huge computa-
tions of matrix multiplication by parallel computations, we
adopt hardware acceleration using the graphic processing unit
(GPU) that each of multi-processors can handel one row of
matrix multiplication at the same time.
In the 2-D waveguide structures to be discussed in the next
section, the grid meshes based on the LGL points in each sub-
domain will be plotted for a given N = 12. In the figures,
the curved structure and the whole computational region can
be seen being partitioned into curvilinear sub-domains, and
(N+1)×(N+1) LGL grid points are not uniformly distributed
but somewhat following the outline of the domain edges.
Please note that the LGL grid points at each edge side of
a sub-domain are co-located with the LGL grid points at one
edge side of its adjacent sub-domain. These co-located grid
points are counted as distinct sets of points, and the penalty
scheme is applied on the two sets for exchanging information
of boundary conditions.
IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS
In this section, we will apply our PSFD method with
stretched coordinate PML to solve several standard optical
waveguides. 1-D slab waveguides will be examined first, and
then their corresponding 2-D fiber structures, which have cir-
cular symmetries, will be analyzed. Next, optical waveguides
with more complicated structures will be analyzed, including
the six-air-hole fiber [17], [18], the rib waveguide [29], and the
photonic wire waveguide [30]. The latter two are with sharp
dielectric corners at which electric-field singularities might
exist, and how such sharp corners would affect the accuracy
(a) (b) (c)
(d) (e) (f)
Fig. 1. 2-D waveguide geometries. (a) Circular fiber. (b) W-type fiber. (c)
M-type fiber. (d) Six-air-hole fiber. (e) Rib waveguide. (f) Photonic wire.
of computation will be discussed. The cross-sections of the
2-D structures to be discussed in this section are depicted in
Fig. 1.
A. W-type slab waveguide
In traditional slab waveguide with higher-index core
squeezed by lower-index cladding layers, optical fields can
be well guided inside the core region and exponentially decay
outside. The propagation constant β is valued between the
wavenumbers of the structure, i.e., kclad < β < kcore,
where kclad and kcore are the wavenumbers of the cladding
and the core, respectively. Under this restriction of physics,
waves are not allowed to propagate laterally in the cladding
layers, because their transverse propagation constant α =
(k2clad − β2)1/2 is imaginary. Therefore, a simplest leaky-
mode waveguide can be constructed by simply introducing
a secondary (infinite) cladding region, outside the inner finite-
thickness cladding layer, with structural wavenumber higher
than β, forming the so-called W-type waveguide [9], [31], with
its refractive-index profile shown in Fig. 2(a). This structure
can, therefore, support waves evanescently decaying in the
inner cladding layer and sinusoidally propagating in the outer
cladding layer. This behavior is similar to the tunneling effect
of a finite-width energy barrier in quantum physics [8], [9].
The W-type waveguide of Fig. 2(a) is structured by 2-
µm-thick core with refractive index n = 2 and 0.5-µm-
thick inner cladding layer with n = 1. For supporting leaky
waves, the material of the outer cladding layer is chosen to be
the same as the core layer. This W-type leaky mode can be
solved analytically [9], [31], and the obtained exact complex
effective index of the fundamental transverse-electric (TE)
mode on the given structure is neff = 1.972708918684279+
j0.000003930939117, when the operating wavelength is λ =
1.5µm. Table 1 lists the PSFD computed complex effective
indexes for different grid resolution or Ns, which apparently
shows that the accuracy in neff reaches 10−15 as N = 14
is used. The sub-domain partitioning and unevenly distributed
LGL mesh grids are illustrated in Fig. 2(b) for N = 6, where
JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. X, NO. X, 2012 6
TABLE II. PSFD computed effective indexes for the fundamental TE mode of the M-type slab waveguide
N Re[neff ] (Case-A) Im[neff ] (Case-A) Re[neff ] (Case-B) Im[neff ] (Case-B)
4 1.457855466583192 0.000005587298538 0.9978547439568767 0.000013218898690
6 1.45785585136149 0.000005398702142 0.9978604800321252 0.000014578997356
8 1.457855851231652 0.000005400603918 0.9978605202336727 0.000014581325891
10 1.457855851273043 0.000005400595700 0.9978605202602324 0.000014581278856
12 1.457855851272849 0.000005400596676 0.9978605202596181 0.000014581278387
14 1.457855851272856 0.000005400596683 0.9978605202596357 0.000014581278392
16 1.457855851272856 0.000005400596683 0.9978605202596358 0.000014581278392
x (µm)
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
R
e
[E
y]
R
e
fra
ct
iv
e
in
de
x
-12 -9 -6 -3 0 3 6 9 12
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
2.2
2.4
Re[Ey]
n
(a)
x (µm)
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
R
e
[E
y]
R
e
fra
ct
iv
e
in
de
x
-20 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
Re[Ey]
n
(b)
Fig. 3. Structural refractive-index profiles and Re[Ey] profiles showing leaky-
wave characteristic for the M-type slab waveguide. (a) case-A. (b) case-B.
can also be solved analytically [9], [31], and the obtained exact
complex effective indexes for the case-A and case-B structures
are neff = 1.457855851272856 + j0.0000054005966836
and 0.997860520259636+j0.000014581278392, respectively.
Apparently, the PSFD accuracy reaches the order of 10−15
for both cases. The Re[Ey]profiles for case-A and case-B
are shown in Fig. 3(a) and (b), respectively, along with their
refractive-index profiles. The modal fields are seen to be
mainly distributed between the two Fabry-Perot layers, with
those in the outer claddings laterally propagating to both ends.
In case-A, the PML regions are defined to be |x| ≥ 8.089µm,
within which the propagating waves gradually decay to zero as
shown in Fig. 3(a). Similarly, the PML regions for case-B are
taken to be |x| ≥ 11.5µm, and the laterally going waves are
seen to be well absorbed in Fig. 3(b). Notice that the maximum
of Re[Ey] is normalized to 1.0 in both figures.
C. Circular fiber waveguide
We have shown above that the PSFD method with stretched
coordinate PML can accurately solve 1-D leaky waveguide
modes with the mechanism of total internal reflection or
anti-resonance. We shall then discuss the application of this
PSFD method to solve 2-D waveguides. Before studying
leaky waveguides, the accuracy of the PSFD analysis of 2-
D structures and the effect of PML will be examined first.
Circular fiber is a suitable example for examination, and an
air-cladded fiber with core radius of 0.6µm and n =
√
8
is considered. Because of its structural symmetry, we can
analyze just one quarter of the whole structure for acceleration
of computation, as shown in the inset of Fig. 4(a), with
perfect electric conductor (PEC) or perfect magnetic conductor
(PMC) placed at the left and bottom edges, respectively. The
inset shows the mesh division using N = 12 and the one-
quarter computational domain is partitioned into curvilinear
sub-domains, with the shape of the material interface being
well fitted with the boundaries of corresponding sub-domains.
For this fiber, the analytical effective index for the fundamental
HE11 mode is neff = 2.684019321609156 when the operat-
ing wavelength is λ = 1.5µm [1].
Three structures are examined. The first one has an air
cladding layer of 0.4-µm thickness as shown in Fig. 4(b),
the second one has air cladding layer of 1.9-µm thickness
as depicted in Fig. 4(c), and the third one is similar to the
first one but with PML layers added as shown in Fig. 4(d).
Note that PEC boundary condition is placed at the outermost
edge of the cladding layer, where mode fields are supposed
to decay to almost zero there. The PSFD calculated effective
indexes with N varied from 4 to 14 are shown in Table III
for these three structures. Apparently, the first case with air
cladding layer of 0.4-µm thickness is seem to have only 10−6
accuracy, but the second case with air cladding layer of 1.9-
µm thickness has 10−15 accuracy, instead. This is because
the fields exponentially decay in the cladding layer, but not
quite close to zero at the outer PEC for the first case since
the cladding layer is not thick enough. For the third structure,
which is designed with additional PML layers added outside
the air cladding of the first case, the accuracy of the PSFD
computed effective index is achieved, again, on the order of
10−15 when N = 14. This result reveals that although the
PML is placed close to the core-cladding interface with the
mode fields not yet decaying to zero at x = y = 1µm, such
PML arrangement is found to have negligible effects on the
calculation accuracy, just like those tests done for the 1-D W-
type waveguide in Fig. 2(b). Notice that the imaginary parts of
neff in the third case in Table III come from the introduction
of PML. These non-zero values are not physically meaningful
since they are comparatively much smaller than the values of
the real parts and can be considered as computation noises.
They actually become almost zero as N is large enough, as
seen in Table III.
The |Ex| profiles are shown in Fig. 4(b), (c), and (d) for
the three cases, and the Re[Ex] versus y curve of Fig. 4(c)
is shown in Fig. 4(a) along with the structural refractive-
index profile. Here we show the 1-D Ex field along the y-
axis, because it maintains tangential continuity across different
JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. X, NO. X, 2012 8
y (µm)
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
R
e
[E
x]
R
e
fra
ct
iv
e
in
de
x
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
2.2
Re[Ex]
n
y
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
Ex
1.5 2.5 3.5 4.5 5.5 6.5-0.01
-0.005
0
0.005
0.01
(a)
x (µm)
y
(µm
)
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.50
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
(b)
Fig. 5. (a) Structural refractive-index profile and Re[Ex] of the HE11 mode
versus y distribution for the W-type circular waveguide with the enlarged
Re[Ex] profile for 1.5µm < y < 6.5µm in the inset showing the
leaky-wave characteristic. (b) Sub-domain arrangement and grid mesh in the
computational region.
(a) (b) (c)
(d) (e) (f)
Fig. 6. Field profiles of the HE11 mode of the W-type fiber waveguide. (a)
|Ex|. (b) |Ey|. (c) |Ez|. (d) |Hx|. (e) |Hy|. (f) |Hz|.
layer is with n = 2.3 and 0.089-µm thickness. The case-B
structure is a pipe waveguide studied in [6] with the following
parameters: core radius of 9µm, Fabry-Perot layer of thickness
1µm and n = 1.4, and the core and the cladding are simply
air. The field confinement and leakage property of the 2-
D ARROW depends critically on the operating wavelength
due to the Fabry-Perot resonant condition. Take case-B as an
example, the relationship between the attenuation constant and
the operating frequency can be seen in [6], which correlates
with the Fabry-Perot wave transmission/reflection spectrum.
Here, we choose λ = 1.2µm at which a Fabry-Perot-layer
transmission minimum or an anti-resonance occurs, resulting
in better field confinement in the waveguide.
The computational sub-domain partitioning and grid meshes
for both cases are shown in the insets of Fig. 7(a) and (b),
respectively. The PMLs, not shown in the insets, are located in
the region (x ≥ 6µm and y ≥ 6µm) for the case-A structure
in Fig. 7(a) and in the region (x ≥ 6.5µm and y ≥ 6.5µm)
for the case-B structure in Fig. 7(b). The PSFD computed
complex refractive indexes for the fundamental HE11 mode
for both structures are listed in Table V for different Ns,
which shows self-convergence of accuracy on the order of
y (µm)
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
R
e
[E
x]
R
e
fra
ct
iv
e
in
de
x
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.6
1.8
2
2.2
2.4
Re[Ex]
n
x (µm)
y
(µm
)
0 1 2 3 40
1
2
3
4
(a)
y (µm)
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
R
e
[E
x]
R
e
fra
ct
iv
e
in
de
x
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
Re[Ex]
n
x (µm)
y
(µm
)
0 2 4 60
2
4
6
(b)
Fig. 7. Structural refractive-index profile and Re[Ex] of the HE11 mode
versus y distribution for the M-type circular waveguide with the inset showing
the sub-domain arranbement and the grid mesh. (a) case-A. (b) case-B.
(a) (b) (c)
(d) (e) (f)
Fig. 8. Field profiles of the HE11 mode of the case-A M-type fiber waveguide.
(a) |Ex|. (b) |Ey|. (c) |Ez|. (d) |Hx|. (e) |Hy|. (f) |Hz|.
10−15 in both ones. To examine the wave leakage and PML
absorption, we plot in Figs. 7(a) and (b) the respective Re[Ex]
profiles along the y-axis. Apparently, the leaky waves can be
well absorbed in both cases since it is seen the fields decrease
gradually in the PML region and approach zero at the edge of
the computational domain.
The PSFD computed electric and magnetic mode-field
distributions are shown in Fig. 8(a)–(f) for case-A and in
Fig. 9(a)–(f) for case-B, respectively, for comparison. From
Table V, we see that Im[neff ] for case-B at the considered
wavelength is larger than that for case-A, as can be understood
from the field distributions in Figs. 8 and 9. The loss of case-B
can become smaller if it is operated at other dips in the higher
frequency range [6]. The case-B structure has the advantage
of avoiding material loss in the core since the guiding core is
simply an air region in addition to its simple pipe geometry
which can make the manufacturing very easy.
F. Microstructured six-air-hole fiber waveguide
So far, we have examined the accuracy of the PSFD method
with the PML by analyzing several standard 1-D and 2-
D W-type and M-type leaky waveguides, and the resultant
accuracy has been demonstrated to be on the order of 10−15
JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. X, NO. X, 2012 10
x (µm)
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
R
e
[E
x]
R
e
fra
ct
iv
e
in
de
x
0 3 6 9 12 15 18
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5Re[Ex]
n
x (µm)
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
Ex
10 12 14 16 18-0.01
-0.005
0
0.005
0.01
(a)
y (µm)
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
R
e
[E
y]
0 3 6 9 12 15 18
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
x (µm)
y
(µm
)
0 2 4 6 8 100
2
4
6
8
10
(b)
Fig. 10. (a) Structural refractive-index profile along the y-axis and Re[Ex]
of the fundamental mode versus x distribution for the six-air-hole waveguide
with the enlarged Re[Ex] profile for 9µm < x < 18µm in the inset showing
the leaky-wave characteristic. (b) Re[Ey] versus y distribution with the inset
showing the sub-domain arrangement and grid mesh.
(a) (b) (c)
(d) (e) (f)
Fig. 11. Field profiles of the p = 1 mode of the six-air-hole fiber waveguide.
(a) |Ex|. (b) |Ey|. (c) |Ez|. (d) |Hx|. (e) |Hy|. (f) |Hz|.
and in Fig. 12(a)–(f) for the p = 3 mode, which are similar
to those presented in [17] and [21]. Similar to the standard
circular fibers, the |Ex| and |Hy| profiles are alike, and so are
the |Ey| and |Hx| profiles.
Up to now we have analyzed four kinds of 2-D waveg-
uides with round material interfaces, and the PSFD computed
effective indexes are listed in Tables III, IV, V, and VI,
respectively. Based on the data in the tables, as a useful
summary, we calculate and plot the errors of neff versus
N in Fig. 13(a)–(d) to show the respective characteristics of
numerical convergence of the developed PSFD mode solver.
For each N , the error of neff is defined as the absolute
value of the difference between the calculated neff and an
accurate reference neff . Fig. 13 is presented in logarithmic
scales, and exponential convergence of computational accuracy
is observed in all four cases, which means that numerical errors
can be fast reduced by a relatively small increase in the number
of grid points. Note that the calculated errors in Fig. 13(a) are
based on the data assuming the air cladding layer is of 1.9µm
thickness and the reference neff being the analytical solution,
while the reference neff s for Fig. 13(b)–(d) are respectively
those neff s corresponding to the respective maximum N value
(a) (b) (c)
(d) (e) (f)
Fig. 12. Field profiles of the p = 3 mode of the six-air-hole fiber waveguide.
(a) |Ex|. (b) |Ey|. (c) |Ez|. (d) |Hx|. (e) |Hy|. (f) |Hz|.
N
Er
ro
r
o
f
n
e
ff
2 4 6 8 10 12 1410
-16
10-14
10-12
10-10
10-8
10-6
10-4
10-2
fiber
(a)
N
Er
ro
r
o
f
n
e
ff
2 4 6 8 10 1210
-16
10-14
10-12
10-10
10-8
10-6
10-4
10-2
W_type
(b)
N
Er
ro
r
o
f
n
e
ff
2 4 6 8 10 1210
-16
10-14
10-12
10-10
10-8
10-6
10-4
10-2
M_type (Case-A)
M_type (Case-B)
(c)
N
Er
ro
r
o
f
n
e
ff
2 4 6 8 10 12 1410
-15
10-13
10-11
10-9
10-7
10-5
10-3
six-air-hole (p = 1)
six-air-hole (p = 3)
(d)
Fig. 13. Exponential convergence characteristics of the error of neff versus
N . (a) The circular fiber. (b) The W-type circular fiber. (c) The M-type circular
fiber. (d) The six-air-hole fiber waveguide.
in Tables IV, V, and VI.
G. Rib waveguide
We have analyzed several leaky-mode waveguides with
circular interfaces, and the PSFD method is shown to give
10−15 accuracy through self-convergence tests. It has been
shown in [24] that using the PSFD method for analyzing
(nonleaky) dielectric channel waveguides with sharp dielectric
corners can provide only 10−8 accuracy in the effective index
with N = 10; with N = 16, 24, and 40, the accuracy improves
to 10−9, 10−10, and 10−11, respectively. The convergence
characteristic is not an exponential one as in the 2-D waveg-
JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. X, NO. X, 2012 12
Fig. 16. Sub-domain arrangement and grid mesh for the photonic wire
waveguide.
y (µm)
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
R
e
[E
x]
R
e
fra
ct
iv
e
in
de
x
4 5 6 7 8
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
Re[Ex]
n
y (µm)
N
o
rm
a
liz
e
d
Ex
2 3 4 5 6-0.0004
-0.0002
0
0.0002
0.0004
(a)
Fig. 17. Structural refractive-index profile along the y-axis at x = 0 and
Re[Ex] of the fundamental mode versus y distribution at x = 0 for the
photonic wire waveguide with the enlarged Re[Ex] profile for 2µm < x <
6µm in the inset showing the leaky-wave characteristic.
TABLE VIII. PSFD computed effective indexes for the fundamental mode of
the photonic wire waveguide
N Re[neff ] Im[neff ]
4 2.390482909644422 2.2502459×10−8
6 2.412928964014647 3.0647138×10−8
8 2.412454190888035 4.9832197×10−8
10 2.412413768252360 3.5744559×10−8
12 2.412398013885063 2.3180120×10−8
14 2.412389601631874 4.5563542×10−8
16 2.412384521810727 3.1565139×10−8
20 2.412379043823438 3.0185470×10−8
24 2.412376369646066 2.9509228×10−8
28 2.412374903200264 2.9279178×10−8
32 2.412374029676081 2.9198372×10−8
or solvers, as given in Table 6 of [30], are similarly listed in
Table IX together with our PSFD result using N = 32 for
comparison. It was concluded in [30] that for Re[neff ], four
solvers agree on five significant digits 2.4123 with CAMFR
and aperiodic fourier modal method even agreeing up to seven
significant digits, and for Im[neff ], three solvers agree on
three significant digits 2.91×10−8 with CAMFR and aperiodic
TABLE IX. Computed effective indexes for the fundamental mode of the
photonic wire waveguide from ten methods as listed in Table 6 of [30] and
from the PSFD method
Method Re[neff ] Im[neff ]
Effective index 2.45 2.4×10−3
Perturbation 2.35 3.0×10−7
BPM Obayya 2.413340 2.7×10−8
FEM Uranus 2.4131 2.97×10−8
FEM Parma 2.41233 2.45×10−8
Olympios 2.413 2.9×10−8
FimmWave 2.41235 2.688×10−8
CAMFR 2.412372 2.9135×10−8
Aperiodic Fourier modal 2.412372 2.91348×10−8
Plane wave admittance 2.4126 2.910×10−8
PSFD (this work) 2.4123740 2.9198372×10−8
(a) (b) (c)
(d) (e) (f)
Fig. 18. Field profiles of the fundamental mode of the photonic wire
waveguide. (a) |Ex|. (b) |Ey|. (c) |Ez|. (d) |Hx|. (e) |Hy|. (f) |Hz |.
fourier modal method again agreeing on five significant digits
after rounding. It is seen that our PSFD result agrees with
CAMFR and aperiodic fourier modal method on six significant
digits for Re[neff ] (2.41237) and on three digits for Im[neff ]
(2.91× 10−8).
Fig. 17 shows the Re[Ex] profile along the y-axis at x = 0
together with the waveguide refractive-index profile. The mode
field is seen mostly guided in the core, decaying in the SiO2
buffer layer, leaking into the Si substrate, and absorbed by
the PML layer. The PML is placed at y < 4µm (substrate)
and the enlarged field profile depicted in the inset of Fig. 17
clearly shows the leaky behavior and the well-absorption by
the PML. The PSFD calculated |Ex|, |Ey|, |Ez |, |Hx|, |Hy|,
and |Hz| profiles for the fundamental mode are shown in Fig.
18(a)–(f), respectively. The field singular points can be seen
in Fig. 18(b).
V. CONCLUSION
We have incorporated the stretched coordinate PMLs
into the recently developed pseudospectral frequency-domain
(PSFD) method waveguide mode solver which employs a
JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. X, NO. X, 2012 14
degree from the Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering, National
Taiwan University, Taiwan, in 2006. She is currently working toward the
Ph.D. degree at the Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering, National
Taiwan University, Taiwan.
Her current research interests include the pseudospectral electromagnetics
modeling in frequency domain.
Hsuan-Hao Liu was born in Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C., on June 6, 1970. He
received the diploma in mechanical engineering from National Taipei Institute
of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, in 1991, and the M.S. degree in mechanical
engineering from Chung Yuan Christian University, Taoyuan, Taiwan, in 1995.
From 1995 to 1998 he was a piping engineer with CTCI Corporation in
Taipei, Taiwan, where he worked on piping drafting design and piping stress
analysis. From 1988 to 2001 he was a vice-engineer in piping engineering
department at FU-TAI Engineering Co., Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan, where he worked
on piping stress analysis and support design.
He is currently a Ph.D. candidate in the Computational Photonics and
Electromagnetics Laboratory of the Graduate Institute of Photonics and
Optoelectronics at National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan. His research
interests include finite element analysis of Photonic crystal fibers and
anisotropic optical waveguides, numerical analysis of characteristic equations,
fast algorithm for generate sparse matrices, and finite element mesh generation
from CAD model.
Shih-Yung Chung received the B.S. degree from the Department of Electrical
Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, in 2004, and the
M.S. degree from the Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering, National
Taiwan University, Taiwan, in 2006. He is currently working toward the Ph.D.
degree at the Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering, National Taiwan
University, Taiwan.
His current research interests include the electromagnetic simulations using
the pseudospectral time domain method.
Chun-Hao Teng was born in Tainan, Taiwan, on February 14, 1970. He
received the diploma in mechanical engineering from National Taipei Institute
of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, in 1990, and the M.S. degree in mechanical en-
gineering from Clarkson University, Potsdam, NY, in 1996, and the M.S. and
Ph.D. degrees in applied mathematics from Brown University, Providence, RI,
in 2001. From 2003 to 2009 he was an Assistant Professor in the Department
of Mathematics at National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. He is
currently an Assistant Research Fellow at Center of Mathematical Modeling
and Scientific Computing, National Chiao Tung University, Hsin-chu, Taiwan.
His research interests are the developments and applications of high-order
numerical methods for partial differential equations.
Chung-Ping Chen (M’96) received the B.S. degree in computer science
and information engineering from National Chiao-Tung University, Hsinchu,
Taiwan, in 1990, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in computer science from
the University of Texas, Austin, in 1996 and 1998, respectively. From 1996
to 1999, he was with Strategic Computer-Aided Design (CAD) Labs, Intel
Corpo-ration, Hillsboro, OR, as a Senior CAD Engineer. Since 1999, he has
been an Assistant Professor with the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, University of Wisconsin, Madison. Since 2003, he has been
an Associate Professor with the Electrical Engineering Department, National
Taiwan University, Taipei. Currently, he is a Professor with the Graduate
Institute of Electronics Engineering, Biomedical Electronics and Bioinfor-
matics and Electrical Engineering Departments, National Taiwan University.
His research interests include the areas of electronic design automation
and BIO topics, including computer-aided design and microprocessor circuit
design with an emphasis on interconnect and circuit optimization, circuit
simulation, statistical design, and signal/power/thermal integrity analysis and
optimization.
Dr. Chen received the D2000 Award from Intel Corporation and the
National Sciences Foundation Faculty Early Career Development awards
(CAREER) from 1999 to 2001, respectively. He also received the 2002 Special
Interest Group on Design Automation/ACM Outstanding Young Faculty
Award and the 2002 IBM Peter Schneider Faculty Development Award. He
served the program committee and is an organizer of the Design Automation
Conference, the International Conference on Computer-Aided Design, Design,
Automa-tion, and the Test in Europe Conference, the International Symposium
on Physical Design, the Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Confer-
ence, the International Symposium on Quality Electronic Design, Synthesis
and System Integration of Mixed Information, the VLSI/CAD Symposium,
and the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors Conference.
Hung-chun Chang (S’78-M’83-SM’00) was born in Taipei, Taiwan, Republic
of China, on February 8, 1954. He received the B.S. degree from National
Taiwan University, Taipei, R.O.C., in 1976, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
from Stanford University, Stanford, CA, in 1980 and 1983, respectively, all
in electrical engineering.
From 1978 to 1984, he was with the Space, Telecommunications, and
Radioscience Laboratory of Stanford University. In August 1984, he joined
the faculty of the Electrical Engineering Department of National Taiwan
University, where he is currently a Distinguished Professor. He was the NTU
Himax Chair Professor during 2011. He served as Vice-chairman of the
EE Department from 1989 to 1991, and Chairman of the newly-established
Graduate Institute of Electro-Optical Engineering at the same University from
1992 to 1998. His current research interests include the electromagnetic
theory, design, and application of photonic structures and devices for fiber
optics, integrated optics, optoelectronics, nanophotonics, and plasmonics.
Dr. Chang served as the IEICE (Japan) Overseas Area Representative in
Taipei from 2002 to 2007. He is a Fellow of the Optical Society of America
and the Electromagnetics Academy.
The PSTD method which possesses high numerical 
accuracy has been utilized to study the transmittance 
spectra of different 2D MSM plasmonic waveguide 
bends. A smooth circular bend is found to have the best 
performance, and would be useful for designing 
plasmonic ring resonators with high extinction ratios. 
Transmitted power spectra for different kinds of bends 
are simulated and the results are presented below. 
3. Results and discussion 
Geometries of bends studied are shown in Fig. 1. The 
first structure is a sharp bend with 90o angle, as shown in 
Fig. 1(a). Two waveguide widths, w = 100 nm and w = 
50 nm, are considered. The width means that of the 
dielectric layer in the MSM structure. Then 30o, 45o, and 
60o tilted bends are constructed by changing d1 and d2 
in Fig. 1(b). Here we fix d1 = w, and change d2 to 
modify the tilted angle. Finally, two circular bends as 
shown in Fig. 1(c) (type 1) and (d) (type 2), respectively, 
are simulated. The radius of curvature, d, is also fixed as 
w.  
 
Fig. 2. Transmitted power spectra of various waveguide bends 
with 100-nm waveguide width. 
  Fig. 1. Geometries of MSM plasmonic waveguide bends. (a) 
90o bend. (b) 30o, 45o, or 60o  bend.(c) Type-1 circular bend. 
(d) Type-2 circular bend. Fig. 3. Transmitted power spectra of various waveguide bends 
with 50-nm waveguide width. 
The frequency spectra of the transmitted power are 
shown in Figs. 2 and 3 for plasmonic waveguide widths 
of 100 nm and 50 nm, respectively. It is seen that 
narrower waveguide (50 nm) has better transmittance 
than the wider one (100 nm). Note that although tilted 
bends have higher transmittance than the sharp one in 
the shorter wavelength part, they are somewhat worse in 
the long wavelength part in both cases.  
Acknowledgement 
This work was supported in part by the National Science 
Council of the Republic of China under grants NSC98-
2628-M-002-009 and NSC98-2221-E-002-025-MY2. 
References 
[1] S. A. Maier, Plasmonics: Fundamentals and Applications 
(Springer, 2007). Type-1 circular bends show the best transmittance performance over the whole wavelength range simulated 
in both Figs. 2 and 3. Type-2 circular bends however 
show much worse performance, which could be due to 
its violent width variation in the bend, causing rapid 
changes in propagating mode characteristics. The 
excellent performance of the type-1 circular bend can 
help the design of plasmonic ring resonators. For 
example, well-designed circular dielectric rings have 
high extinction ratios, but plasmonic rings do not 
because of insufficient coupling length between the ring 
and the straight waveguide. Type-1 circular bends can be 
used to increase the coupling length by adding a section 
of straight waveguide into the circular ring, becoming 
the so-called racetrack-type or elongated ring. This will 
not increase much bending loss, from the results in Figs. 
2 and 3, but can enhance the coupling, and thus increase 
the extinction ratio. 
[2] G. Veronis and S. Fan, “Bends and splitters in metal-
dielectric-metal subwavelength plasmonic waveguides,” 
Appl. Phys. Lett. 87, 131102 (2005). 
[3] C. H. Teng, B. Y. Lin, H. C. Chang, H. C. Hsu, C. N. Lin, 
and K. A. Feng, “A Legendre pseudospectral penalty 
scheme for solving time-domain Maxwell’s equations,” J. 
Sci. Comput. 36, 351 (2008). 
[4] A. Hosseini and Y. Massouda, “Nanoscale surface plasmon 
based resonator using rectangular geometry,” Appl. Phys. 
Lett. 90, 181102 (2007). 
[5] Z. H. Han, E. Y. B. Pun, and S. He, “Plasmonic 
waveguide resonators based on hexagonal structures,” in 
2009 Integrated Photonics and Nanophotonics Research 
and Applications (Optical Society of America, 2009), 
paper IWC8. 
[6] S. Xiao, L. Liu and M. Qiu, “Resonator channel drop filters 
in a plasmonpolaritons metal,” Opt. Express 14, 2392 
(2006). 
[7] A. Taflove and S. C. Hagness, Computational 
Electrodynamics: The Finite-Difference Time-Domain 
Method, 3rd ed. (Artech House, 2005). 4. Conclusion 
1734 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 30, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2012
respect to structural shape will be shown, which are different
from those of classical dielectric ring resonators. Besides, their
poor spectral responses due to over- and under-couplings will
be discussed and modified by an optimized racetrack ring.
The plasmonic waveguides, formed by metal/dielectric/metal
(MDM) structures, have been widely studied nowadays, for
they possess certain peculiar characteristics compared with
traditional dielectric waveguides, such as subwavelength
mode size [18]. In practice, the subwavelength-sized metallic
waveguides would be useful in miniaturized integrated optical
circuits. Furthermore, possible high transmittance of waves
passing through the sharp bend [19] with low bending losses
in such waveguide provides more flexibility and feasibility for
manufacturing compact optical circuits and devices. Therefore,
related plasmonic waveguide ring resonators could be manu-
factured with much smaller geometry than traditional dielectric
rings. And simulations of such surface plasmon waves would
demand high-accuracy near-field computations.
In the following, we will first explain some formulations
about the PSTD method and the dispersive-material modeling
which we used to curve-fit the dielectric constant of silver in
visible and near-infrared wavelength regions in Sections II–IV.
Then, in Section V, this accurate PSTD method will be utilized
to study the electromagnetic responses of typical dielectric
waveguide-coupled microring resonators and the results will be
compared with those obtained from another high-order method,
the discontinuous Galerkin time-domain (DGTD) method
[9]. After that, the optical behaviors of the subwavelength
plasmonic-ring resonators will be investigated. Both the Drude
and the Drude–Lorentz material-dispersion models [1], [20]
for approximating the actual silver characteristics [21] will
be used for comparison. Several ring structures proposed in
[14], [16], and [17] as well as one modified racetrack-type, or
elongated, ring resonator will be analyzed and their electro-
magnetic responses in the visible and near-infrared regions will
be presented.
II. PHYSICAL EQUATIONS AND THE PENALTY SCHEME
Electromagnetic fields in a linear, uniform, isotropic, and
source-free medium region are governed by Maxwell’s curl
equations with constitutive relations
(1)
where is the permittivity and is the permeability. These
equations can be rewritten in the following form for the con-
venience of further numeric implementation:
(2)
where the vector and the matrices , and will be
specified for respective cases in the following subsections. For
2-D electromagnetic simulations, we will consider both trans-
verse electric (TE) and transverse magnetic (TM) modes below.
A. Penalty Scheme
From the requirement of well-posed condition, it has been
proved in [7] that the boundary conditions between any two ad-
jacent subdomains can be fulfilled by adding a penalty term,
which is proportional to , to (2). It can be found
in [7] that is the similarity transformation matrix for diag-
onalizing the symmetric matrix , which is defined by
with , and being the compo-
nents of the unit normal vector to the subdomain boundary, and
is a diagonal matrix, in which the eigenvalues of matrix
are chosen and placed. A stable-in-time pseudospectral scheme
for solving (2) can be constructed by choosing suitable propor-
tionality parameter for the penalty term. The vectors, and ,
in the penalty term mean the fields belonging to two adjacent
subdomains, respectively, at the interface.
B. TE Modes
For TE waves in the plane with only , and field
components, we have and
in (2). The spatial derivative indexes are expressed as
Therefore, the matrix containing eigenvectors of matrix for
the penalty scheme will then become
with corresponding eigenvalues , and .
C. TM Modes
On the contrary, for TM waves in the plane having only
, and field components, with which SPPs can exist
and propagate at the metal/dielectric interface [18], we have
and . The spatial derivative
indexes will then be
Similarly, the can be derived from as
with the same eigenvalues , and . Exchange between
TE and TM modes can also be done by using electromagnetic
duality, which would be the same as varying Maxwell’s equa-
tions, the matrix , and the penalty terms.
III. LEGENDRE PSEUDOSPECTRAL METHOD
In the multidomain Legendre pseudospectral method, each
curvilinear subdomain in coordinates can be mapped onto
1736 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 30, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2012
Fig. 2. Structure of the ring resonator. (a) Power transmittances at three ports.
(b) Curvilinear domain partitioning and mesh grids based on LGL quadrature
points.
waveguide-coupled ring resonators, which are formed based on
the MDM waveguide structure, will be simulated and studied.
A. Dielectric Waveguide-Coupled Microring Resonators
We first consider the ring structure as shown in Fig. 2(a). The
circularly shaped dielectric waveguide is placed between two
straight ones, and the incident wave is excited from the left of the
bottom waveguide. The “Input port,” “Throughput port,” “Drop
port,” and “Add port” are defined in Fig. 2(a), and power trans-
mittance at each port can be obtained by normalizing the trans-
mitted power at each port to the incident one. The ON/OFF res-
onant conditions are mainly influenced by the incident optical
wavelengths, which would affect phase interferences inside the
ring waveguide. In addition, waves traveling around the ring
structure and being accumulated, when ON-resonance occurs,
will be coupled down to the bottom waveguide and cause inter-
ference as well. Based on the curvilinear subdomain partitioning
and LGL grid points, portion of the circular ring structure for
analysis later is partitioned in Fig. 2(b) as an example.
The first ring case we discuss here is a dielectric single-ring
structure, as shown in Fig. 2, studied in [10] with 2.5- m radius
and the gap between the circular and straight waveguides
is 0.232 m. The waveguide width is 0.3 m with core of
and air cladding. The FDTD method was adopted
in [10] for computations and the obtained five ON-resonant
orders ( ’s) and frequencies are listed in Table I together with
those computed by the PSTD method. It is seen that the PSTD
obtained frequencies are larger than the FDTD ones, with the
differences ranging from 0.317 to 0.412 THz corresponding to
the percentage differences from 0.17% to 0.20%. The PSTD
computed free spectral ranges (FSRs), which are the differences
between adjacent resonant dips, for the five modes are 50.63,
47.54, 44.79, and 42.15 nm; and the corresponding values
obtained by the FDTD method [10] are 50.66, 47.56, 44.73,
and 42.17 nm, respectively. The FDTD and PSTD computed
quality factors (Q-factor), defined as , where is the
central frequency and is the bandwidth, for the five resonant
dips are also listed in Table I.
The next case is a ring resonator with the same geometry as
that proposed in [9], which is again a single-ring structure as
shown in Figs. 2 and 3. The dielectric waveguide is set to be
0.2- m width with the dielectric constant placed in free
space. The radius of the ring is m, and the gap be-
tween the ring and the straight waveguide is 0.1 m. Both our
TABLE I
COMPARISON OF FIVE CALCULATED RESONANT FREQUENCIES AND Q-FACTORS
BETWEEN THE FDTD AND PSTD METHODS
PSTD and the DGTD [9] calculated transmittance spectra are
depicted in Fig. 3(a) and (b) for the “Throughput port” and the
“Drop port,” respectively. There are no waves propagating to
the “Add port” under this single-ring structure, thus the trans-
mittance spectra at the “Throughput port” and the “Drop port”
would be totally complementary. Notice that the transmittance
spectrum at the “Throughput port” is decreasing at the lower
frequency (longer wavelength) range. This can be possibly ex-
plained by two closely coupled waveguides near the gap, where
one waveguide is straight and the other is curved. For shorter
wavelengths, two waves, one from the straight waveguide and
the other from the ring, propagating with the same phase veloci-
ties, can interfere comparably, but waves at longer wavelengths
cannot. In other words, one can imagine that there is a short sec-
tion of the waveguide just near the gap where the curved wave-
guide can also be treated as a straight one, such that one full
wave cycle of shorter wavelength can be totally situated inside,
but the wave of longer wavelength cannot. Therefore, waves
at longer wavelengths (lower frequencies) would have more in-
complete interferences at the gap and leave some residual waves
in the ring, which will keep going around the ring and be cou-
pled out to the “Drop port,” corresponding to transmittances of
about 16%, as shown at lower frequencies in Fig. 3(b).
The PSTD and DGTD results in Fig. 3(a) and (b) are seen to
almost overlap with each other. The slight difference is exam-
ined by checking the resonant frequency at 226.4 THz. This fre-
quency was considered in [9] to check numerical convergence.
Our PSTD result is found to be smaller by 0.1 THz, or 0.045%.
When examining this resonant dip for different grid resolutions,
it can be seen that the position of the dip remains the same as
(i.e., grid points in each subdomain) increases
in the PSTD method, as depicted in Fig. 3(c). The DGTD calcu-
lated convergence behavior for this dip as presented in [9, Fig.
6(b)] is plotted in Fig. 3(d) in which the PSTD result is also
plotted. It is seen the dip moves to left in the DGTD method
as is decreased and converges to a frequency value which
is about 0.1 THz (or 0.045%) larger than the PSTD’s dip fre-
quency, Such small percentage difference is nevertheless four
times better than the differences between the PSTD and FDTD
calculations as given in Table I. The PSTD computed Q-factors
for the five resonant dips in Fig. 3(a), from left to right, would
be 82, 108, 141, 180, and 227, respectively; and the FSRs are
62.7, 57.7, 53, and 49.1 nm.
The field distributions of the ON/OFF resonances at 245.317
and 249.827 THz are depicted in Fig. 3(e) and (f), respectively,
for this single-ring case. Because the transmitted power is zero
at the “Throughput port,” and 100% at the “Drop port” for the
1738 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 30, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2012
Fig. 5. PSTD simulation results for the rectangular-shaped MDM ring res-
onator. (a) Transmittance spectra. (b) Comparison with [16] with the ordinate of
the spectral plot in dB scale. (c) ON-resonance distribution at 296.72 THz.
(d) OFF-resonance distribution at 322.3 THz.
B. MDM Plasmonic Square-Shaped Ring Resonators
In the following, we apply the PSTD method to study several
plasmonic waveguide-coupled ring resonators. It is known that
the SPPs can be guided and propagate at the metal/dielectric
interface only under the TM mode with , and fields
in the plane [18]. So in the following, we will consider the
TM modes. Also, the plasmonic waveguides we consider here
are made of the MDM structure, in which the insulator region
is taken to be air.
The “notch” filter type ring resonators with upper waveguide
removed will be considered below, since plasmonic waveguides
suffer much larger losses than typical dielectric waveguides,
especially in the wavelength range of visible light. We have
mentioned that, for ON-resonance condition of the “dielectric”
ring resonator, part of the accumulated strong electromagnetic
waves inside the ring will be simultaneously coupled to both the
upper and bottom waveguides. But in the case of ON-resonance
condition of the “plasmonic” ring resonator, the waves inside
the ring decay quickly when traveling around the ring struc-
ture. Therefore, removing the upper waveguide can help saving
more waves inside the ring so that they can be accumulated high
enough to totally cancel the incident wave at the bottom wave-
guide, and high extinction ratio can be maintained.
The first plasmonic ring resonator to be discussed is a
square-shaped structure with edge length nm and
waveguide width nm, which was first proposed in
[16] and simulated with the FDTD method. The gap between
the ring structure and the bottom waveguide is 20 nm. It is well
known that a dielectric waveguide cannot have such sharp bend
because of accompanied large bending losses. But sharp bends
of plasmonic waveguide have been shown to be able to provide
possible high transmittance of waves with low bending losses
Fig. 6. Evolution of fields after the incident wave terminated for monitoring
the backward propagating wave in the ring resonator of Fig. 5.
[19], making this square-shaped ring possible. The transmit-
tance spectra of the “Throughput port” are depicted in Fig. 5(a)
within the frequency range of 270–600 THz. In Fig. 5(a) and
the following similar figures, the dashed line (red) and the
solid line (blue) correspond to results obtained with the Drude
and the Drude–Lorentz model, respectively. Although our
Drude–Lorentz model fitting can support up to about 850 THz,
frequencies over 600 THz are omitted because the extinction
ratio of transmittance is poor due to larger losses in metal. From
Fig. 5(a), it can be seen that there are two workable resonant
dips near 300 THz, and others are not good enough to be used
because of their insufficient extinction ratios and low finesse.
The transmittance spectra near 300 THz would be similar to
those in [16] if the ordinate is plotted in dB scale, as shown
in Fig. 5(b), but with about 3.35 THz spectral shift or about
1.14% difference between our PSTD results and those of [16].
Apparently, this difference is much larger than that in the case
of dielectric-ring. Therefore, accurate numerical spectral calcu-
lations should be more essential for plasmonic-ring structures.
The field distribution at the first dip, i.e., the ON-resonance,
occurring at 296.72 THz and that at the OFF-resonance at 322.3
THz are shown in Fig. 5(c) and (d), respectively.
From the ON-resonant result in Fig. 5(c), one can observe that
no waves are propagating toward the “Throughput port,” and the
waves at the “Input port” are enhanced. It is because the waves
inside the ring split when coupling to the bottom waveguide.
That is to say, when waves travel along the last vertical wave-
guide of the ring structure, perpendicular coupling forces part
of the waves to go to the left and part to the right. Then, waves
propagating to the right would cancel, by destructive interfer-
ence, the incident waves while those to the left would enhance,
by constructive interference, the incident waves.
To observe this backward propagating wave, the field evo-
lution at the lower left corner after termination of the incident
wave is illustrated in Fig. 6 for three time steps, showing the left
propagating wave as time marches. Note that the upper wave-
guide is removed so that the resonator becomes of the notch
type; otherwise, part of waves would uncontrollably propagate
to the “Add port,” as what occurring at the bottom waveguide
depicted in Fig. 6.
There are totally six dips with transmittances less than 50%
in Fig. 5(a) at frequencies 296.72, 303.345, 438.523, 493.648,
537.777, and 593.588 THz. Their corresponding field dis-
tributions are shown in Fig. 7(a)–(f), respectively. Except that
more cycles of waves are able to be situated inside the ring struc-
ture as the frequency increases, one can find some regular pat-
terns of symmetry in these figures since the establishment of
resonant modes have to fit the structure shape. This will become
more apparent in the next example.
1740 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 30, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2012
Fig. 10. PSTD simulation results for the circular-shaped MDM ring resonator.
(a) Transmittance spectra. (b) ON-resonance distribution at 349.4 THz. (c)
OFF-resonance distribution at 272.53 THz.
D. MDM Plasmonic Circular-Shaped Ring Resonators
The problem of backward propagating waves and resultant
worse spectral responses appearing in above two ring-resonator
cases is apparently due to the existence of corners and the exces-
sively long coupling length in the rings, which can possibly be
reduced by restoring to the typical circular ring shape. Fig. 10
shows our simulation results for a circular-shaped ring structure
with the plasmonic waveguide of width nm and ring
radius nm, which are chosen for comparison with the
hexagonal-shaped ring one. The gap between the ring structure
and the bottom waveguide is still 20 nm. From the transmit-
tance spectra in Fig. 10(a), however, it can be deduced that the
coupling length is too short to provide enough coupling inter-
ferences for the resonant dips to be with better extinction ratios.
The field distributions at the first dip, i.e., ON-resonance, occur-
ring at 349.4 THz as well as the OFF-resonance at 272.53 THz
are shown in Fig. 10(b) and (c), respectively.
E. MDM Plasmonic Racetrack-Shaped Ring Resonators
The insufficient coupling length of circular ring can be im-
proved by simply adding two sections of straight waveguide
into the circular ring, resulting in the racetrack, or elongated
[1], type ring structure. But for the coupling of waveguides,
we know that the length of the straight waveguide should be
well designed, or the problem of over-coupling or under-cou-
pling, as seen in aforementioned cases, will occur and worsen
the spectrum again. Therefore, we have done numerical exper-
iments by varying the straight-waveguide length from 0 to 200
nm, and the calculated normalized powers at the four resonant
dips in Fig. 10(a) are depicted in Fig. 11 with respect to the
straight-waveguide length added. Apparently, there is an opti-
mized straight-waveguide length near 100 nm such that longer
Fig. 11. Normalized powers at four resonant dips in Fig. 10(a) versus the
straight-waveguide length in the racetrack-shaped ring.
Fig. 12. PSTD simulation results for the racetrack-shaped MDM ring res-
onator. (a) Transmittance spectra. (b) Comparison of transmittance spectra
between one- and two-waveguides. (c) ON-resonance distribution at
326.73 THz. (d) OFF-resonance distribution at 272.53 THz.
or shorter length would cause lower extinction ratios. This study
can also allow us to attribute the poor spectra in the rectangular-
shaped and hexagonal-shaped ring structures to over-coupling
and those in the circular-shaped ring resonator to under-cou-
pling between the ring and the bottom waveguide.
According to Fig. 11, the modified racetrack-shaped ring,
with the straight-waveguide length of nm and other
parameters unchanged, is simulated and the results are shown in
Fig. 12. One can see that the transmittance spectra in Fig. 12(a)
now have all the resonant dips reaching nearly 0% transmit-
tance, compared to Fig. 10(a). Notice that the resonant dips in
Fig. 12(a) are shifted a little to left, compared with those in
Fig. 10(a), because the ring circumference is now larger than
the original circular one by 200 nm. The Q-factors for the four
dips in Fig. 12(a) are 234, 170, 95, and 60, respectively, and
1742 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 30, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2012
[4] S. Dey and R. Mittra, “A locally conformal fnite-difference time-do-
main algorithm for modeling three-dimensional perfectly conducting
objects,” IEEE Microw. Guided Wave Lett., vol. 7, no. 9, pp. 273–275,
Sep. 1997.
[5] Y. Liu, C. D. Sarris, and G. V. Eleftheriades, “Triangular-mesh-based
FDTD analysis of two-dimensional plasmonic structures supporting
backward waves at optical frequencies,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 25,
no. 3, pp. 938–945, Mar. 2007.
[6] Y. Zhao and Y. Hao, “Finite-difference time-domain study of guided
modes in nano-plasmonic waveguides,” IEEE Trans. Antennas
Propag., vol. 55, no. 11, pp. 3070–3077, Nov. 2007.
[7] C. H. Teng, B. Y. Lin, H. C. Chang, H. C. Hsu, C. N. Lin, and K. A.
Feng, “A Legendre pseudospectral penalty scheme for solving time-
domain Maxwell’s equations,” J. Sci. Comput., vol. 36, pp. 351–390,
2008.
[8] W. J. Gordon and C. A. Hall, “Transfinite element methods: Blending-
function interpolation over arbitrary curved element domains,” Numer.
Math., vol. 21, pp. 109–129, 1973.
[9] X. Ji, T. Lu, W. Cai, and P. Zhang, “Discontinuous Galerkin time do-
main (DGTD) methods for the study of 2-D waveguide-coupled mi-
croring resonators,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 23, no. 11, pp. 3864–3874,
Nov. 2005.
[10] S. C. Hagness, D. Rafizadeh, S. T. Ho, and A. Taflove, “FDTD mi-
crocavity simulations: Design and experimental realization of wave-
guide-coupled single-mode ring andwhispering-gallery-mode disk res-
onators,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 15, no. 11, pp. 2154–2164, Nov.
1997.
[11] A. Belarouci, K. B. Hill, Y. Liu, Y. Xiong, T. Chang, and A. E. Craig,
“Design and modeling of waveguide-coupled microring resonator,” J.
Lumin., vol. 94–95, pp. 35–38, 2001.
[12] B. E. Little, S. T. Chu, H.A.Haus, J. Foresi, and J.-P. Laine, “Microring
resonator channel dropping filters,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 15, no. 6,
pp. 998–1005, Jun. 1997.
[13] S. I. Bozhevolnyi, V. S. Volkov, E. Devaux, J. Y. Laluet, and T. W.
Ebbesen, “Channel plasmon subwavelength waveguide components
including interferometers and ring resonators,” Nature, vol. 440, no.
23, pp. 508–511, Mar. 2006.
[14] S. Xiao, L. Liu, and M. Qiu, “Resonator channel drop filters in a
plasmon-polaritons metal,” Opt. Exp., vol. 14, pp. 2932–2937, Jan.
2006.
[15] N. Talebi, A. Mahjoubfar, and M. Shahabadi, “Plasmonic ring res-
onator,” J. Opt. Soc. Amer. B, vol. 25, no. 12, pp. 2116–2122, Dec.
2008.
[16] A. Hosseini and Y. Massoud, “Nanoscale surface plasmon based
resonator using rectangular geometry,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 90, pp.
181102-1–181102-3, Apr. 2007.
[17] Z. H. Han, E. Y. Pun, and S. He, “Plasmonic waveguide resonators
based on hexagonal structures,” presented at the presented at the Integr.
Photon. Nanophoton. Res. Appl., OSA Tech. Digest (CD), Honolulu,
HI, 2009, Paper IWC8.
[18] S. A. Maier, Plasmonics: Fundamentals and Applications. Berlin,
Germany: Springer-Verlag, 2007.
[19] G. Veronis and S. Fan, “Bends and splitters in metal-dielectric-metal
subwavelength plasmonic waveguides,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 87, pp.
131102-1–131102-3, Sep. 2005.
[20] A. Vial, A. S. Grimault, D. Macias, D. Barchiesi, and M. L. D. L.
Chapelle, “Improved analytical fit of gold dispersion: Application to
the modeling of extinction spectra with a finite-difference time-domain
method,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 71, pp. 085416-1–085416-7, Feb. 2005.
[21] P. B. Johnson and R. W. Christy, “Optical constants of the noble
metals,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 6, pp. 4370–4379, Dec. 1972.
[22] M. H. Carpenter and C. A. Kennedy, Fourth order 2N-storage
Runge–Kutta scheme NASA, Hampton, VA, NASA-TM-109112,
1994.
[23] W. Cai, W. Shin, S. Fan, and M. L. Brongersma, “Elements for
plasmonic nanocircuits with three-dimensional slot waveguides,” Adv.
Mater., vol. 22, pp. 5120–5124, 2010.
Shih-Yung Chung received the B.S. degree from the Department of Electrical
Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan, in 2004, and the
M.S. degree from the Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering, National
Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, in 2006, where he is currently working to-
ward the Ph.D. degree at the Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering.
His current research interests include the electromagnetic simulations using
the pseudospectral time-domain method.
Chih-Yu Wang received the B.S. degree from the Department of Engineering
Science, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan, in 2004, and the
M.S. degree from the Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering, National
Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, in 2006, where she is currently working to-
ward the Ph.D. degree at the Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering.
Her current research interests include the pseudospectral electromagnetics
modeling in frequency domain.
Chun-Hao Teng was born in Tainan, Taiwan, on February 14, 1970. He re-
ceived the diploma in mechanical engineering from the National Taipei Insti-
tute of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, in 1990, and the M.S. degree in mechanical
engineering from Clarkson University, Potsdam, NY, in 1996, and the M.S. and
Ph.D. degrees in applied mathematics from Brown University, Providence, RI,
in 2001.
From 2003 to 2009, he was an Assistant Professor in the Department ofMath-
ematics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. He is currently an
Assistant Research Fellow at the Center of Mathematical Modeling and Sci-
entific Computing, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan. His re-
search interests include the developments and applications of high-order numer-
ical methods for partial differential equations.
Chung-Ping Chen (M’96) received the B.S. degree in computer science and in-
formation engineering from National Chiao-Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan,
in 1990, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in computer science from the Univer-
sity of Texas, Austin, in 1996 and 1998, respectively.
From 1996 to 1999, he was with Strategic Computer-Aided Design (CAD)
Labs, Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, OR, as a Senior CAD Engineer. Since
1999, he has been an Assistant Professor with the Department of Electrical
and Computer Engineering, University of Wisconsin, Madison. Since 2003,
he has also been an Associate Professor with the Electrical Engineering
Department, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, where he is also a
Professor with the Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering, Biomedical
Electronics and Bioinformatics and Electrical Engineering Departments. His
research interests include the areas of electronic design automation and BIO
topics, including CAD and microprocessor circuit design with an emphasis on
interconnect and circuit optimization, circuit simulation, statistical design, and
signal/power/thermal integrity analysis and optimization.
Dr. Chen received the D2000 Award from Intel Corporation and the National
Sciences Foundation Faculty Early Career Development awards (CAREER)
from 1999 to 2001, respectively. He also received the 2002 Special Interest
Group on Design Automation/ACM Outstanding Young Faculty Award and the
2002 IBM Peter Schneider Faculty Development Award. He served the program
committee and is an organizer of the Design Automation Conference, the Inter-
national Conference on Computer-Aided Design, Design, Automation, and the
Test in Europe Conference, the International Symposium on Physical Design,
the Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conference, the International
Symposium on Quality Electronic Design, Synthesis and System Integration
of Mixed Information, the VLSI/CAD Symposium, and the International Tech-
nology Roadmap for Semiconductors Conference.
Hung-Chun Chang (S’78–M’83–SM’00) was born in Taipei, Taiwan, on Feb-
ruary 8, 1954. He received the B.S. degree from National Taiwan University,
Taipei, in 1976, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Stanford University, Stan-
ford, CA, in 1980 and 1983, respectively, all in electrical engineering.
From 1978 to 1984, he was with the Space, Telecommunications, and Ra-
dioscience Laboratory of Stanford University. In August 1984, he joined the
Faculty of the Electrical Engineering Department of National Taiwan Univer-
sity, where he is currently a Distinguished Professor. He was the NTU Himax
Chair Professor during 2011. He served as Vice-chairman of the Department of
Electrical Engineering from 1989 to 1991, and Chairman of the newly estab-
lished Graduate Institute of Electro-Optical Engineering at the same University
from 1992 to 1998. His current research interests include the electromagnetic
theory, design, and application of photonic structures and devices for fiber op-
tics, integrated optics, optoelectronics, nanophotonics, and plasmonics.
Dr. Chang served as the Institute of Electronics, Information and Commu-
nication Engineers (Japan) Overseas Area Representative in Taipei from 2002
to 2007. He is a Fellow of the Optical Society of America and the Electromag-
netics Academy.
FDTD mesh to prepare the input source profile for time-domain calculations. As for the PC band diagram 
analysis, the FDTD method and the plane-wave expansion method [4] have been most often utilized. An FDFD 
method for two-dimensional (2-D) PC analysis was formulated and shown to be an efficient approach [5]. 
Recently we have developed further FDFD formulations for analyzing modes on periodic waveguides [6,7] and 
calculating band diagrams of 3-D PC structures [7]. These structures can involve anisotropic materials such as 
liquid crystals (LCs) [7,8]. For solving regular waveguide problems, the Yee-mesh arrangement in the cross-
sectional plane of the waveguide is as shown in Fig. 1(b). 
In this paper, some of our recent works on the development and applications of the FDTD and FDFD 
methods will be presented and discussed. 
THE 3-D FDTD SIMULATION APPLICATIONS 
Long computation time and large memory storage are typically required in 3-D FDTD calculations. We 
have implemented parallel computation codes so that 3-D structures can be more efficiently simulated. One 
example is to simulate nanoparticle size dependent surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) enhancement of 
silver film over nanospheres (AgFON) substrate [9]. In the experiment, polystyrene nanospheres of diameter 
varying from 430 t0 1500 nm and Ag film of 120-nm thickness were fabricated, and the maximum SERS 
enhancement factor was obtained when the diameter of the nanospheres was 1000 nm and the laser wavelength 
was 532 nm. Related 3-D FDTD simulations of the electric near fields around the nanospheres confirmed strong 
field would occur for this nanosphere diameter [9]. 
The other example is to understand the physics underlying the transmission spectral profile of a 2-D array 
of rectangular holes perforated on a metallic film. From 3-D FDTD simulated near-field features corresponding 
to some maxima and minima in the far-field spectra, three mechanisms, excitation of surface plasmon polaritons 
(SPPs), Wood’s anomalies (WAs), and localized shape resonances (LSRs), were identified [10].  
               
 
                              (a)                                                       (b)                                                     (c) 
Figure 2. (a) Schematic of a triangular-lattice 2-D PC slab [11]. (b) Calculated band diagram for (a) in [11]. 
(c) FDFD calculated band diagram for (a). 
FDFD ANALYSIS OF 3-D PHOTONIC-CRYSTAL STRUCTURES 
The triangular-lattice 2-D PC slab as shown in Fig. 2(a) [11] is an often encountered structure, which is in 
fact a 3-D one. Its band diagram has been popularly calculated using the FDTD method or the plane-wave 
expansion method [4], and that for the structure of Fig. 2(a) given in [11] is shown in Fig. 2(b), where the solid 
and open circles correspond to TE-like and TM-like guided modes, respectively. Figure 3(c) depicts the diagram 
obtained using our developed Yee-mesh-based FDFD method, which is seen to agree very well with Fig. 2(b).  
Our FDFD formulation has been generalized and can be used to calculate band diagrams of those structures 
involving anisotropic permittivity materials [7]. The mathematical formulation is introduced in [7] and the 
hybrid guided modes of a square-lattice air-hole PC slab with the air holes filled with nematic LCs having non-
diagonal permittivity have been successfully analyzed. 
FDFD MODAL ANALYSIS OF ANISOTROPIC WAVEGUIDES AND TERAHERTZ 
WAVEGUIDES 
We have developed a novel FDFD method based eigenvalue algorithm using Yee mesh for analyzing 
anisotropic optical waveguides involving materials with arbitrary permittivity tensor [8]. A standard eigenvalue 
matrix equation is derived by considering simultaneously four transverse field components.  The algorithm has 
been applied to the mode solution of a proton-exchanged LiNbO3 optical waveguide. Then, modes on a channel 
optical waveguide filled with LCs of arbitrary molecular director orientation have been investigated. The loss of 
transverse-axis symmetries of the waveguide with symmetric background structure caused by the arbitrary 
A General Split-Field Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method Based 
on Auxiliary Differential Equations for Simulating Light Interactions 
with Dispersive Periodic Structures  
Ming-yun Chen1, Chih-hsien Lai2, and Hung-chun Chang1,3,4*, Senior Member, IEEE 
1Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C.  
2Department of Electronic Engineering, National Yunlin University of Science and Technology, Yunlin, Taiwan, 64002, R.O.C. 
3Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
4Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
*hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—We propose a general split-field finite-difference 
time-domain (SF-FDTD) method based on the auxiliary 
differential equation (ADE) technique for analyzing dispersive 
periodic structures with an injected obliquely incident plane 
wave. Employment of the ADE method reduces the variables, 
saves the memory, and shortens the computing time comparing 
with other SF-FDTD method. 
Index Terms—Dispersive media, periodic structures, split-
field finite-difference time-domain method. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Periodic nano-structures have played an important role in 
many nano-photonics devices. One important kind having 
attracted many research efforts is the plasmonic structures 
which can lead to huge enhancement of the local 
electromagnetic fields [1] and power transmission. These 
field-enhancement phenomena can find applications in 
various nano-photonics researches such as in surface-
enhanced Raman scattering, enhanced molecular absorption, 
boosted fluorescence, vibrational spectroscopy, etc. [2], [3]. 
As for study of plasmonic structures under oblique incidence 
is very significant research which have been conducted 
regarding the oblique incidence of the metallic nanoparticle 
arrays experimentally [4] and numerically [5]. 
For studying electromagnetic characteristics of periodic 
structures, the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method 
has been one of the most general tools [4]. In plasmonics 
research, normal incidence of waves is most often treated. 
However, consideration of oblique incidence is essential, as 
has recently been conducted for metallic nanoparticle arrays 
experimentally [5] and numerically [6]. Several techniques 
have been developed for solving the phase-shift problems in 
oblique incidence, such as the multiple unit cell method [7], 
the sin-cos method [8], the spectral FDTD method [9], the 
iterative technique [10], and the split-field FDTD (SF-FDTD) 
method [11]. The SF-FDTD method is more efficient and 
precise than other methods due to the employment of the 
field transformation to eliminate the phase shift between 
periodic boundaries. Recently, several SF-FDTD 
formulations have been derived to treat the dispersive 
materials [12], [13]. In this paper, we employ the ADE 
method to formulate the SF-FDTD method for the dispersive 
media. Here, alternatively, the electric flux density is used to 
achieve a new formulation based on the ADE method. 
Comparing with [13], our algorithm can reduce one variable 
for the Lorentz model, so that we can shorten the computing 
time and reduce the memory. 
II. FORMULATION 
First, we consider the periodic structures with periods dx 
and dy along the x and y directions, respectively, as depicted 
in Fig. 1(a). Only one unit cell as shown in Fig. 1(b) needs to 
be considered as the computing window. The perfectly 
matched layers (PMLs) are incorporated in the z direction as 
the absorbing boundary conditions, and the periodic 
boundary conditions (PBCs) are incorporated in the x and y 
directions. By assuming the incident wave is a plane wave, 
the electromagnetic fields can be expressed as 
(1) 
 
where                               ,                             , and                      
(2) 
are wavenumber components along the x, y, and z directions, 
respectively, with n being the refractive index of the medium 
and c being the speed of light in free space. We apply the 
field transformation to remove the phase accumulated 
between periodic boundaries under oblique incidence. The 
field transformations are represented as 
(3)
(4) . 
Through the field transformations, the PBCs become the 
simple form as 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
(8)  
Substituting the F and G fields into Maxwell's equations, we 
have the field components as 
(9) 
(10) 
 
According to (3) in [15], the surface plasmon modes can be 
obtained at  μm for  or  as depicted 
in Fig. 4(a). The (1, 0), (0, 1), (0, –1), and (–1, 0) Ag/Si 
surface plasmon modes can be separated into different 
wavelengths by increasing the incident angle , as illustrated 
in Fig. 4(b). Our simulation results show the same trend as 
the experimental data reported in [15]. 
[2] F. J. Garcia-Vidal, L. Martin-Moreno, T. W. Ebbesen, and L. 
Kuipers, “Light passing through subwavelength apertures,” 
Rev. Modern Phys., vol. 82, pp. 729–787, May 2010. 
[3] H. H. Wang, C. Y. Liu, S. B. Wu, N. W. Liu, C. Y. Peng, T. 
H. Chan, C. F. Hsu, J. K. Wang, and Y. L. Wang, “Highly 
Raman-enhancing substrates based on silver nanoparticle 
arrays with tunable sub-10 nm gaps,” Adv. Mater., vol. 18, pp. 
491–495, Feb. 2006. 
 
[4] A. Taflove and S. C. Hagness, Computational Electro-
dynamics: The Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method, 3rd 
ed. Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2005. 
[5] Y. Chu, E. Schonbrun, T. Yang, and K. B. Crozier, 
``Experimental observation of narrow surface plasmon 
resonances in gold nanoparticle arrays,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 
93, p. 181108, Nov. 2008. 
Fig. 3. Schematic of the periodic square-lattice hole array. [6] A. B. Evlyukhin, C. Reinhardt, U. Zywietz, and B. N. 
Chichkov, “Collective resonances in metal nanoparticle arrays 
with dipole-quadrupole intera,” Phys. Rev. B., vol. 85, p. 
245411, Jun. 2012. 
 
[7] J. R. Ren, O. P. Gandhi, L. R. Walker, J. Fraschilla, and C. R. 
Boerman, “Floquet-based FDTD analysis of two-dimensional 
phased array antennas,” IEEE Microwave Guided Wave Lett., 
vol. 4, pp. 109–111, Apr. 1994. 
[8] P. Harms, R. Mittra, and W. Ko, “Implementation of the 
periodic boundary condition in the finite-difference time-
domain algorithm for FSS structures,” IEEE Trans. Antennas 
Propag., vol. 42, pp. 1317–1324, Sep. 1994. 
 
[9] A. Aminian and Y. Rahmat-Samii, “Spectral FDTD: a novel 
technique for the analysis of oblique incident plane wave on 
periodic structures,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 54, 
pp. 1818–1825, Jun. 2006. 
[10] I. Valuev, A. Deinega, and S. Belousov, “Iterative technique 
for analysis of periodic structures at oblique incidence in the 
finite-difference time-domain method,” Opt. Lett., vol. 33, pp. 
149–1493, Jul. 2008. 
Fig. 4. Transmission spectra of a periodic squared hole array with 
d = 9 μm and w = 6 μm. (a) Normal incidence (  and 
). (b)  and . 
[11] J. A. Roden, S. D. Gedney, M. P. Kesler, J. G. Maloney, and 
P. H. Harms, “Time-domain analysis of periodic structures at 
oblique incidence: orthogonal and nonorthogonal FDTD 
implementations,” IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 
46, pp. 420–427, Apr. 1998. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
We have developed an ADE-based SP-FDFD method 
for simulating electromagnetic characteristics of periodic 
structures with dispersive materials. Compared with other 
SP-FDTD methods, our method can be more efficient. To 
validate our developed algorithm, we have considered a thin 
film surrounded by the air and a periodic square-lattice hole 
array perforated in a silver film. The applications of our 
method to simulating nano-scale components, even with 
nonlinear dispersive materials, are straightforward.  
[12] A. Belkhir, O. Arar, S. S. Benabbes, O. Lamrous, and F. I. 
Baida, “Implementation of dispersion models in the split-
field–finitedifference time-domain algorithm for the study of 
metallic periodic structures at oblique incidence,” Phys. Rev. 
E., vol. 81, p. 046705, Apr. 2010. 
[13] A. Shahmansouri and B. Rashidian, “Comprehensive three-
dimensional split-field finitedifference time-domain method 
for analysis of periodic plasmonic nanostructures: near- and 
far-field formulation,” J. Opt. Soc. Am. B., vol. 28, pp. 2690–
2700, Nov. 2011. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported in part by the National Science 
Council of the Republic of China under grants NSC99-
2221-E-002-107-MY2 and NSC100-2811-E-002-089. The 
authors would like to thank the National Center for High-
Performance Computing in Hsinchu, Taiwan for providing 
useful computing resources. 
[14] M. A. Alsunaidi and A. A. Al-Jabr, “A General ADE-FDTD 
Algorithm for the Simulation of Dispersive Structures,” IEEE 
Photon. Technol. Lett., vol. 21, pp. 817–819, Jun. 2009. 
[15] M. W. Tsai, T. H. Chuang, H. Y. Chang, and S. C. Lee, 
“Bragg scattering of surface plasmon polaritons on 
extraordinary transmission through silver periodic perforated 
hole arrays,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 88, p. 213112, May 2006. REFERENCES 
[1] S. Zou and G. C. Schatz, “`Silver nanoparticle array structures 
that produce giant enhancements in electromagnetic fields,” 
Chem. Phys. Lett., vol. 403, pp. 62–67, Feb. 2005. 
5260 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 60, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2012
where the field components must satisfy jump conditions. To
evaluate the errors introduced in spatial derivatives across the
interface, we should study every possible type of material in-
terface. Unfortunately, this seems to be a difficult task for an
analytical analysis in the discrete space.
There are two approaches to study the second-order condi-
tions of the FDTD method across the dielectric interfaces. The
first is to derive the numerical reflection and/or transmission co-
efficients by FDTD methods, and the resulting formulations are
then compared with the theoretical solutions [14]. The second is
applying the integral form of Maxwell’s equations on the FDTD
lattice and studying the required continuity conditions and the
order of error terms [15]. Both approaches should be equivalent
and will give the same results. The numerical reflection from a
45 sloped dielectric interface via staircasing had been studied
previously [17], but the offset between interface and grid mesh
has not been included, no second-order conditions were derived,
and no effective permittivities were introduced in [17].
In the present article, we simplify our investigation of local
errors of the FDTD method about the dielectric interface by
studying the transmission coefficients of plane waves at gener-
ally orientated planar interface between two dielectrics. The the-
oretical studies will be limited to transverse-electric (TE) waves
that the field components are continuous across the dielectric
interface, and only the normal derivative of the tangential mag-
netic field will be discontinuous. The relative offset between
interface and grid mesh will be considered. We will study the
simpler cases of normal incidence at the sloped dielectric in-
terface together with some comments about oblique incidences.
From these studies we find out a simpler smoothing process that
guarantees second-order accuracy at general sloped interfaces.
It turns out that the averaging process for the effective permittiv-
ities should be taken along the normal direction of the dielectric
interface. The range of average depends on the relative orienta-
tion of the interface in the FDTD mesh. The proposed line av-
erage scheme is validated through the studies of wave scattering
from a dielectric cylinder.
II. GOVERNING EQUATION FOR THE HARMONIC TE WAVES
In this article we restrict our discussions to non-magnetic
and isotropic dielectric media. From Maxwell’s equa-
tions, the finite-difference time-domain updating schemes for
the two-dimensional (2D) TE waves are
(1)
where is the relative permittivity at the grid point position
, both and are integers. For convenience and
clarity, the magnetic field components have been multiplied by
intrinsic impedance in free space, such that the electric and mag-
netic fields could have the same unit and same order of magni-
tudes. Consider the harmonic plane wave with the time factor
, the steady state responses solved by (1) will have the time
factor , where is an integer or half integer.
For the central difference on the left-hand sides of (1), the
time derivatives of field components sampled at discrete time
steps will be approximated by
(2)
where is the apparent frequency for the difference opera-
tion. The discrepancy between and the real frequency is
a good measure of the errors that come from the time integra-
tion operation of the FDTD method. The leading terms of the
error could be readily obtained by Taylor expansion of and
shown to be second-order in time steps. Similarly, the errors in
spatial derivatives are also accurate of second order inside uni-
form medium.
For time-harmonic fields, we could simplify (1) by factoring
out the common time factor , and introduce the electric
field phasor for each grid point
and similar phasors for magnetic field components. Further-
more, for time-harmonic TE fields, we could eliminate the mag-
netic field components and get the following equation for the
complex phasor ,
(3)
This equation could be regarded as a governing equation for
the harmonic TE waves in the discrete space. This simplified
form of finite-difference equation involves only spatial deriva-
tives, and it could be recognized as the discrete formulation of
the Hemholtz’s equation governing the harmonic waves in inho-
mogeneous media. We note that the errors involved in the tem-
poral derivatives in (1) have been embedded into the apparent
frequency , which should be close but not equal to the real
frequency .
III. NORMAL INCIDENCE ON PLANAR INTERFACES ALIGNED
WITH CELL DIAGONAL
In most practical situations the grid lines can not be oriented
to be parallel with all the interfaces, and we must model inter-
faces with general orientations. However, it may be difficult to
derive closed form formulations for general situations. In this
section we will consider the special cases when the dielectric
interface is parallel to cell diagonal, and a harmonic plane wave
is incident normally on the interface as shown in Fig. 1, where
is the slope of interface, is the offset distance
between origin and the interface, and is the distance between
the sloped grid lines that are passing diagonally through the grid
points.
Without loss of generality, we will assume that the interface
is situated between the sloped grid lines and .
When the incident wave impinges upon the material interface,
5262 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 60, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2012
where and . Eliminating
and in (7) by applying the dispersion relations (5), we
could solve for the two unknowns, and . For our purpose,
we need only write down the explicit expression for , as shown
in (8) at the bottom of the previous page. This is the numerical
transmission coefficient across the dielectric interface given by
the FDTD method. Because and are approximately equal
to their theoretical values within second order of accuracy [18],
we could use the following approximate theoretical transmis-
sion coefficient
(9)
within second order of accuracy. In this form we express
approximately in terms of the parameters in the discrete space
for convenience, because our goal is to find the second-order
conditions for . For this purpose, expand both the denominator
and numerator of (8) to second order of accuracy in
(10)
Comparing with the theoretical solution (9), the above relation
reveals that the transmission coefficient given by the FDTD
method is generally accurate up to first order in . Also, the am-
plitude of is always approximate to the true solution within
second order of accuracy, no matter what values of the effec-
tive permittivities and we choose. That is, the first-order
error is approximately the phase error. In order to achieve the
second order of accuracy, we should eliminate the first-order
phase error, leading to the phase matching condition between
the right-hand sides of (9) and (10), when
(11)
where we have assumed that . The above equation is
the second-order condition for the FDTD solutions on a sloped
dielectric interface. It is independent of the slope, frequency,
step size, or Courant number. Although not shown here, fol-
lowing similar but more tedious procedures shown above, we
could show that the second-order condition (11) is also valid
for oblique incidence with any angle of incidence. It depends
on the offset a and the distance between the sloped grid lines.
This second-order condition depends linearly on the offset ,
which is the distance along the normal direction between the
grid points on line and the interface. This linearity
naturally suggests a line average scheme along the normal of
interface.
According to previous discussions about the second-order
condition (11), we propose a line average scheme along the di-
rection normal to the interface as shown in Fig. 2. The line seg-
ments and are of equal length and centered at grid lines
and , respectively. The effective permit-
tivities and will be taken as the averaged values of the
dielectric constants over and , respectively
(12)
It is easy to check that (11) could be fulfilled for any
if . Remember that is the distance
Fig. 2. Line segments and in the normal direction of interface and of
equal length , and are centered at grid lines and ,
respectively.
Fig. 3. FDTD errors on the sloped interface when , , and .
between the sloped grid lines. In other words, is actually the
lattice constant in the normal direction, over which we should
take the average. However, in order to match (11), is not
the unique option. In fact, if , the length could be
either or . In the following we will set , because it
will introduce less errors than those given by . The line
averaging process via (12) to get the effective permittivities will
be referred to as the line average method.
In the following the accuracy of (8) is tested for various effec-
tive permittivities given by three different methods: the staircase
approximation method, the cell average method, and the pro-
posed line average method. We assume the square mesh with
. For the present problem, the error of the transmis-
sion coefficient is equal to that of the reflection coefficient, and
from (4), it is also approximately equal to the error of the elec-
tric field within second order of accuracy.
Consider the FDTD errors on the sloped interface when
, , and . The zero offset means that the interface
is just on the sloped grid line . In this case, both cell
and line average schemes use the same effective permittivities
and , and they will give the same
second-order accurate results as shown in Fig. 3, where is
the wavelength in free space. The staircasing scheme gives the
less accurate first-order results as expected.
When , i.e., the interface is at the midway between
the sloped grid lines and , both staircase and
line average schemes use the same effective permittivities
5264 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 60, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2012
Fig. 7. The polar plot of the length of average as a function of slope angle
when .
Secondly, the phase error is linearly proportional to the
offset distance between the interface and the surface that
pass through the grid points. This suggests that the averaging
process should be relevant to the normal direction , instead of
tangential or other directions. The averaging operation should
be taken on a line segment that is normal to the interface and
centered at the grid points, as depicted in Fig. 2.
Thirdly, the proper length of average is related to the distance
between neighboring grid lines that are parallel to the interface
and passing through the grid points. This distance is just the
lattice constant in the normal direction. From previous studies,
it is suggested that, in order to eliminate first-order errors, the
length of average should be some integral multiples of the
lattice constant in the normal direction. It would be an obvious
choice that when , and when
. On the other hand, from the results of previous sections
we should choose when
with . Because should be a continuous
function of the slope angle with corresponding unit normal
, we may choose as
(13)
That is, the length of average depends on the relative orienta-
tion of the interface in the FDTD mesh. Fig. 7 shows the polar
plot of as a function of slope angle when .
V. NUMERICAL EXAMPLES FOR 2D SCATTERING BY
DIELECTRIC CYLINDERS
In this section, we will demonstrate the effectiveness of the
line average scheme proposed in the previous section by 2D TE
scattering problems. We will compare the results from various
averaging scheme with the theoretical solutions [19]. For the
error of magnitude is usually second-order accurate, we will
consider the absolute error, i.e., the absolute value of the dif-
ference between complex phasors given by numerical and the-
oretical methods
The reference phase is set to be the phase of incident wave at
the center of computational domain for both numerical and the-
oretical solutions. For numerical examples within this section,
we will set unit amplitude for the incident wave, and
.
In the following, to compare the numerical results with the
theoretical solutions, we calculate the scattering of plane waves
Fig. 8. Error versus grid size for various methods when and .
Fig. 9. Error versus grid size for various methods when and
.
by circular dielectric cylinder in the air. When applying the pro-
posed line average scheme derived from the reflection of planar
interface to the curvilinear interfaces, we approximate locally
the circular boundary by line segments. For small circles, the
discrepancy between circular arc and straight line should not be
neglected, and we compensate this curvature effect by modi-
fying the position of assumed tangential straight line toward the
center of circle by a factor about , where
is the grid size and is the radius of circle.
For the grid-size dependences of errors by various
schemes are shown in Figs. 8 and 9 for the cases that the dielec-
tric constants of cylinder are 4 and 40 respectively. When
, the cell and line average schemes always give better re-
sults than the staircasing approximation when . For
, finer mesh with is necessary to get rea-
sonable results such that the cell and line average schemes can
give better results than the staircasing scheme. The line average
scheme gives results very close to those given by cell average.
For some grid sizes, line average is slightly better than cell av-
erage, but for other grid sizes the situation may be reversed. It
seems that, for lower material contrast, the line average schemes
could be expected to give better results.
We should note that, the line average scheme is derived orig-
inally from the planar interfaces. It may be less accurate for in-
terfaces with very high curvature. For example, when
5266 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 60, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2012
Fig. 12. Error versus grid size when and , TM case.
Fig. 13. Error versus grid size when and , TM case.
than all other methods. Although line average scheme seems
better than others, its accuracy is up to first rather than second
order. This comes from the fact that, for TM cases, the anistropic
effective permittivity requires averaging operation of electric
field components over nearby grid points, and the averaging op-
eration is accurate only up to first order. The problem about how
to resume the second order accuracy for TM waves needs more
studies.
VII. CONCLUSION
In this article, we have examined the second-order conditions
for the accuracy of the Yee-grid based FDTD scheme on the
sloped dielectric interfaces. It is found that, the second-order
conditions could be fulfilled if the effective permittivities are
calculated from the line average process along the normal di-
rection of the interface. The length of average is determined to
be dependent on the relative orientation of the interface in the
FDTD mesh.
For both planar and curvilinear interfaces, we have shown
that the line average scheme could be slightly accurate than the
cell average scheme. With the line average scheme, we need
only perform the average operation along the one-dimensional
boundary normals, nomatter in 2D or in 3D problems. Using the
line average scheme, over 90% of the CPU time could be saved
in the preprocessing stage of the FDTD method, as compared
with the traditional cell average scheme.
The proposed line average scheme is also applied to TM
waves, and gives better results than other methods. When
, the errors of line average scheme are at least
3.3 dB lower than all other methods. However, the problem
about how to resume the second order accuracy for TM waves
remains an open problem and needs more theoretical and
numerical studies.
REFERENCES
[1] K. S. Yee, “Numerical solution of initial boundary value problems
involving Maxwell’s equations in isotropic media,” IEEE Trans. An-
tennas Propag., vol. AP–14, pp. 302–307, 1966.
[2] A. Taflove and S. C. Hagness, Computational Electrodynamics: The
Finite-difference Time-domain Method. Norwood, MA: Artech
House, 2005.
[3] A. C. Cangellaris and D. B. Wright, “Analysis of the numerical error
caused by the stair-stepped approximation of a conducting boundary in
FDTD simulations of electromagnetic phenomena,” IEEE Trans. An-
tennas Propag., vol. 39, no. 10, pp. 1518–1525, Oct. 1991.
[4] R. Holland, “Pitfalls of staircase meshing,” IEEE Trans. Electromagn.
Compat., vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 434–439, Nov. 1993.
[5] S. Zhao and G. W. Wei, “High-order FDTD methods via deriva-
tive matching for Maxwell’s equations with material interfaces,” J.
Comput. Phys., vol. 200, pp. 60–103, 2004.
[6] R. Holland, “Finite-difference solution of Maxwell’s equations in
generalized nonorthogonal coordinates,” IEEE Trans. Nucl. Sci., vol.
NS-30, no. 6, pp. 4589–4591, Dec. 1983.
[7] M. Fusco, “FDTD algorithm in curvilinear coordinates,” IEEE Trans.
Antennas Propag., vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 76–89, Jan. 1990.
[8] Y. Hao and C. J. Railton, “Analyzing electromagnetic structures with
curved boundaries on Cartesian FDTD meshes,” IEEE Trans. Microw.
Theory Tech., vol. 46, no. 1, pp. 82–88, Jan. 1998.
[9] K. H. Dridi, J. S. Hesthaven, and A. Ditkowski, “Staircase-free fi-
nite-difference time-domain formulation for general materials in com-
plex geometries,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 49, pp. 749–756,
2001.
[10] Y. Hao, V. Douvalis, and C. G. Parini, “Reduction of late time insta-
bilities of the finite-difference time-domain method in curvilinear co-
ordinates,” Inst. Electr. Eng. Proc.-Sci. Meas. Technol., vol. 149, no. ,
pp. 267–271, 2002.
[11] N. Kaneda, B. Houshmand, and T. Itoh, “FDTD analysis of dielectric
resonators with curved surfaces,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech.,
vol. 45, no. 9, pp. 1645–1649, Sep. 1997.
[12] S. Dey and R.Mittra, “A conformal finite-difference time-domain tech-
nique for modeling cylindrical dielectric resonators,” IEEE Trans. Mi-
crow. Theory Tech., vol. 47, no. 9, pp. 1737–1739, Sep. 1999.
[13] W. Yu and R. Mittra, “A conformal finite difference time domain tech-
nique for modeling curved dielectric surfaces,” IEEE Microw. Guided
Wave Lett., vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 25–27, Jan. 2001.
[14] T. Hirono, Y. Shibata, W. W. Lui, S. Seki, and Y. Yoshikuni, “The
second-order condition for the dielectric interface orthogonal to the
Yee-lattice axis in the FDTD scheme,” IEEE Microw.Guided Wave
Lett., vol. 10, no. 9, pp. 359–361, Sep. 2000.
[15] K.-P. Hwang and A. C. Cangellaris, “Effective permittivities for
second-order accurate FDTD equations at dielectric interfaces,” IEEE
Microw. Wireless Comp. Lett., vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 158–160, Apr. 2001.
[16] A. Mohammadi, H. Nadgaran, and M. Agio, “Contour-path effective
permittivities for the two dimensional finite-difference time-domain
method,” Opt. Express, vol. 13, pp. 10367–10381, 2005.
[17] A. Akyurtlu, D. H. Werner, V. Veremey, D. J. Steich, and K. Aydin,
“Staircasing errors in FDTD at an air-dielectric interface,” IEEE Mi-
crow. Guided Wave Lett., vol. 9, no. 11, pp. 444–446, Nov. 1999.
[18] A. Christ, S. Benkler, J. Frohlich, and N. Kuster, “Analysis of the ac-
curacy of the numerical reflection coefficient of the finite-difference
time-domain method at planar material interfaces,” IEEE Trans. Elec-
tromagn. Compat., vol. 48, no. 2, pp. 264–272, Feb. 2006.
[19] R. F. Harrington, Time-Harmonic Electromagnetic Fields. Hoboken,
NJ: Wiley-IEEE Press, 2001.
[20] J. Y. Lee and N. H. Myung, “Locally tensor conformal FDTD method
for modeling arbitrary dielectric surfaces,”Microw. Opt. Technol. Lett.,
vol. 23, pp. 245–249, 1999.
  
 
 出席國際學術會議報告 
民國 101 年 7 月 19 日 
 
會議名稱：第十六屆(2012年)歐洲積體光學研討會(16th European Conference on Integrated 
Optics (ECIO 2010))及第十九屆光波導理論與數值模型化國際研討會 (The 
19th International Workshop on Optical Waveguide Theory and Numerical 
Modelling (OWTNM 2012)) 
時    間：2012年4月18日至4月21日 
地    點：西班牙巴塞隆納 
發表掄文： H. H. Liu and H. C. Chang, “Finite Element Analysis of Anisotropic Optical 
Waveguides with Arbitrary Optic-Axis Orientation” 
出席人：  張宏鈞  臺大光電所／電機系教授 
 
（一）參加會議經過 
 
筆者由國科會計畫經費補助旅費前往西班牙巴塞隆納參加「第十六屆(2012年)歐洲
積體光學研討會(16th European Conference on Integrated Optics (ECIO 2012)) 及第十九屆
光波導理論與數值模型化國際研討會  (The 19th International Workshop on Optical 
Waveguide Theory and Numerical Modelling (OWTNM 2012))」，在會中發表論文。歐洲
積體光學研討會自1981年首次在倫敦舉行以來，自1993年起每兩年舉行一次，今年是第
十六屆。歐洲國家在積體光學的研發及應用領域，多年來積極投入，且有許多合作研究
計畫，成果甚豐，尤其在理論及模擬方面，研究人力較美國為多。筆者曾於1999年首次
參加ECIO，發現是一個非常值得參加的研討會，因此至今每屆均與會，今年此項會議於
4月18日至4月21日在西班牙巴塞隆納的Hotel Melia Sitges舉行。光波導理論及數值模化國
際研討會(OWTNM)則是一個小型的研討會，自1992年起在歐洲不同城市巡迴舉行，除
了1996年外每年舉行，今年已是第二十屆了(會議手冊與網頁均誤植為第十九屆)，筆者
於2001年首次參加此項會議，之後每兩年當OWTNM與ECIO聯合舉行時均前往出席，目
前的聯合舉行模式為四天的會議中，前三天為ECIO，後兩天為OWTNM，重疊的第三天
則安排有聯合的場次。因此，本次OWTNM在20日及21日兩天舉行，20日與ECIO有一個
聯合的場次。 
筆者於4月16日晚間由台北出發，17日上午由阿姆斯特丹轉機，於中午飛抵巴塞隆納。 
4月18日九時正ECIO開幕。開幕典禮中大會主席報告研討會各國參與和論文安排情形，
議程包括27篇邀請論文，56篇口頭報告論文，以及101篇壁報論文，投稿論文有220篇，
 1
  
 
 
 3
為電漿子波導尚未有統一的結構，仍需廣泛的研究。另外，optical interconnects也是一項
甚有進展的新課題，也有電漿子學的影子，第二天下午“Optical Interconnects and 
Integration”場次中，史丹福大學的Prof. David Miller給了一個很精彩的Tutorial talk，題目
為 “Optical Interconnects to Chips,” 介紹包括網路資料中心耗電能的趨勢與低耗能元件
的需求等重要概念與研究進展。 
 
（三）攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
1.  Proceedings, 16th European Conference on Integrated Optics (ECIO 2012), Contributed 
and Invited Papers，USB電子檔。 
2.  Abstracts, the 19th International Workshop on Optical Waveguide Theory and Numerical 
Modelling, 電子檔。 
3.  Programme, 16th European Conference on Integrated Optics (ECIO 2010) and Technical 
Exhibition and the 19th International Workshop on Optical Waveguide Theory and 
Numerical Modelling。 
  
  
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/03/09
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 具微結構或複雜材料特性之光電器件的數值電磁研究
計畫主持人: 張宏鈞
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-002-107-MY2 學門領域: 光纖通訊與波導光學
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數   
 
