 2
meteorological conditions, antecedent moisture, and soil hydraulic properties.  The process of 
infiltration into a slope due to rainfall and the correlation between effective saturation in 
unsaturated soil and the slope stability were also discussed. 
 
2 Theory 
2.1 Effective Stress Concept of Unsaturated Soil 
In many unsaturated geotechnical engineering problems such as retaining walls, slope stability, 
and landfill cap design the profile of effective stress is an important quantity for assessing the 
integrity of these structures.  Bishop (1959) widely cited effective stress approach for unsaturated 
soil expands Terzaghi’s classic effective stress equation as follows: 
 
' ( ) ( )a a wu u uσ σ χ= − + −  (1) 
 
where 'σ  is the effective stress; σ  is the otal stress; ua is the pore air pressure; uw is the water 
pressure, the quantity (ua−uw) is called matric suction; and χ  is called the coefficient of effective 
stress and is a constitutive property of soil that depends on the degree of saturation.  For χ = 0, 
corresponding to completely dry soil, and for χ = 1, corresponding to fully saturated soil, equation 
(1) reduces to Terzaghi’s classic effective stress equation for describing the behavior of saturated 
soil ( ' wuσ σ= − ).  In the Bishop relationship (1), χ  is an empirical parameter representing the 
proportion of soil suction that contributes to the effective stress.  The traditional Mohr-Coulomb 
criterion was used to represent the failure conditions： 
 
' ' 'tanf cτ σ φ= +  (2) 
 
which, after substitution of the effective stress expression (1), lead to 
 
( ) ( )' 'tanf a a wf fc u u uτ σ χ φ⎡ ⎤= + − + −⎣ ⎦  (3) 
 
where fτ  is shear strength and c’ and 'φ  are the effective cohesion and friction angle, respectively. 
 
The validity of several forms of χ  as a function of the degree of saturation was also 
examined by Vanapalli and Fredlund (2000) using a series of shear strength test results for 
statically compacted mixtures of clay, silt and sand.  For matric suction ranging between 0 and 
1500 kpa, the following two forms showed good fit to the experimental: 
 
w
s
κθχ θ
⎛ ⎞= ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
 (4) 
  
1
w r r
s r r
S S
S
θ θχ θ θ
− −= =− −  (5) 
 
where wθ is the volumetric water content at any matric suction, sθ is the saturated volumetric water 
content, rθ is the residual volumetric water content, κ  is the fitting parameter that depends on soil 
properties, and ( ) /(1 )r rS S S− − is called the effective degree of saturation.  Substituting equations 
(4) and (5) into the above equation (3) lead to two new forms for the degree of saturation, which 
correspond to shear strength. 
 
( ) ( )' 'tanwf a a wf f
s
c u u u
κθτ σ φθ
⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞⎢ ⎥= + − + −⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎥⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦
 (6) 
  
 4
( ) ( )' 'tan tan
sin cos
br
n a a w
f s r
S
m
c u u u
F
W
θ θσ φ φτ θ θ
τ α α
⎛ ⎞−+ − + − ⎜ ⎟−⎝ ⎠= =  (8) 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Infinite slope failure in unsaturated soil 
Figure 2 A idealized rainfall series as a 
uniform distribution to determine the rainfall 
intensity 
 
2.2 Results and Discussion 
In Taiwan, Many slope failures in the unsaturated soils are triggered by heavy rainfall that 
usually occurs between the months of June and September, especially in the typhoon seasons.  
These failures are characterized by relatively shallow failure surfaces (typically 2.0-3.0 m depth) 
that develop parallel to the original slope (Pan, 1996).  Therefore, suppose the depth of 
unsaturated zone is about 4.0m and the depth of failure plane is about 2.0m.  In this paper, 
rainfall-infiltration model was developed to estimate the process of infiltration into a slope due to 
rainfall and its effect on soil slope behavior with using modified Mohr-Coulomb failure criterion.  
A majority of soil parameter values required for this model can be found in the Table 2 and 3.  In 
addition, point rainfall is a random temporal series of discrete rainfall events.  Under certain 
restrictions, all rainfall events may be assumed to be mutually independent.  The rainfall intensity 
varies along with the flux of time in each rainfall event.  Thus, it is difficult to simulate and 
calculate the rainfall intensity in the analytical model.  In this study, the rainfall intensity is 
regarded as an idealized rainfall series with a uniform distribution (Eagleson, 1978).  For each 
individual rainfall event, the mass of water in the actual rainfall is the same as in the model one, 
as shown in Figure 2. 
 
Table 2 Range of soil hydraulic parameters for 
various soils (Bras 1990) 
Table 3 Range of soil strength properties for 
various soils 
  Soil Loam Clay 
ks [mm/day] 2940 294 29.4 
λ [-] 3.3 1.2 0.4 
θs [-] 0.25 0.35 0.45 
θr [-] 0.05 0.10 0.15 
ψs [mm] -250 -450 -900  
 Soil Loam Clay 
φ’[degree] 35 30 25 
c’[kpa] 0 5 8  
 
To investigate the effect of effective degree of saturation on the slope stability, three different 
parameters of standard soil (sand, loam, and clay) were adopted. The slope was also assumed to 
be homogeneous and isotropic.  A range of representative soil parameter for homogeneous of sand, 
loam, and clay has been identified and is listed in table 2 and 3.  Time series of rainfall and 
