 1
 
 
Abstract— A power allocation problem in OFDM-based 
cognitive radio networks is studied in this project. The objective 
is to maximize the total capacity of the secondary user subject to 
an interference constraint. We propose a ratio parameter, 
including channel fading and interference conditions among 
primary users and secondary users to indicate how good a 
subcarrier is. Based on the existing heuristic schemes, we 
proposed a new improved mechanism to select subcarriers. The 
proposed selecting mechanism outperforms the existing nulling 
mechanism, and its performance is close to that of the optimal 
solution. In this project, a threshold-based scheme is also 
proposed and compared in the simulations. The performance of 
the proposed threshold-based scheme is still better than those of 
existing heuristic schemes with the nulling mechanism.  
 
Index Terms—Cognitive radio, orthogonal frequency division 
multiplexing (OFDM), power allocation, subgradient. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
With the increasing demand in wireless applications, radio 
spectrum becomes a scarce and precious resource. According 
to the report of the Federal Communications Commissions 
(FCC), most of the licensed spectrum is largely underutilized 
[1]. The concept of cognitive radio (CR) based on software-
defined radio (SDR) is first presented in [2] to solve the 
problem of the spectrum scarcity. In CR networks, an 
unlicensed secondary user (SU) is allowed to access the 
spectrum which is allocated to the licensed primary user (PU) 
without causing the harmful interference to PUs. The 
spectrum utilization can be improved by enabling SUs to 
access the spectrum holes [3], which is a band of frequencies 
assigned to PUs but not utilized at a particular time. 
Opportunistic spectrum access [3] would allow SUs to detect 
and access available spectrum holes/resources.  
Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) has 
been suggested as a competitive technique in CR networks. 
The capacity with a power constraint in fading channels has 
been examined in many papers [4-5]. Optimal power 
allocation can be determined by the waterfilling policy [6-9]. 
In CR networks, the mutual interference [10] between PUs 
and SUs should be considered. The mutual interference 
depends on the transmit power and the spectral distance 
between PUs and SUs. There are two types of interference in 
CR networks. One is introduced by PUs into SUs, which 
leads to an SNR loss in CR networks. The other one is 
introduced by SUs into PUs, which should be less than the 
interference temperature level [3] used to protect the quality 
of service in PUs. The power allocation problem with the 
interference constraint in CR networks is different from that 
with the power constraint only [4-9]. 
The capacity limit of the CR networks is first discussed in 
[11] in the information-theoretic sense. Recently, there have 
been many reports discussing the capacity optimization 
problems under different power and interference constraints 
in CR networks [12-23]. In [12-19], the capacity optimization 
problem subject to the total power constraint and the total 
interference temperature level introduced to PU’s constraint 
is considered. The traditional waterfilling algorithm should 
be used carefully with the consideration of the interference 
constraints. Power allocated to subcarriers can not exceed the 
interference temperature level. It makes the power allocation 
problem different from those in [4-9], and better allocation 
algorithms in CR networks are still developing. If the 
allocated power is always within the power constraint, the 
transmit power constraint could be ignored in the problem 
formulation. This resource allocation problem has also been 
investigated in some papers [20-23]. An optimal scheme is 
derived via the Lagrangian technique is proposed in [20-21]. 
In traditional OFDM-based allocation problems [4-9], we 
may determine the quality of subcarriers simply by the 
channel fading conditions. However, the interference 
between PUs and SUs should be considered in CR networks. 
It leads that the optimal scheme [20-21] has to calculate the 
optimal power in an iteration fashion. The optimal power 
allocated to subcarriers is determined both by the channel 
condition and the interference. That specific subcarrier 
without being considered in the next iteration is suggested to 
be chosen with the most negative value [20-21].  
In this report, we propose a way to determine the quality of 
subcarriers by the use of  the interference-to-channel fading 
ratio, where the channel fading condition and the interference 
are both well considered. Three heuristic schemes are 
proposed in [20-21]. The first one is a step-ladder scheme 
which allocates power to subcarriers by considering the 
spectrum distance to the PUs’ bands. It allocates constant 
power to the subcarrier which is closest to the PUs’ bands, 
and then increases power allocated to subcarriers far away 
from the PUs’ bands. The second scheme allocates power to 
subcarriers equally using the interference constraint for all 
subcarriers. Power allocated to subcarriers is related with the 
interference factor introduced by SUs to PUs. The equal 
   認知網路之適應性傳輸技術研究 
 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-008-053 
 
計畫主持人：陳永芳 
 
計畫參與人員：包偉丞、莊恂諭、楊長暻 
 
 3
where 2  denotes the additive white Gaussian noise 
(AWGN) variance; ( )lnJ  denotes the interference introduced 
by the thl  PU’s band into the thn  subcarrier. The mutual 
interference between PUs and SUs is given as follows [10, 
20-21, 26].  
A. Interference introduced by the CR user’s signal 
By using an ideal Nyquist pulse, the power density 
spectrum of the thn  subcarrier can be defined as: 
 
 2( ) sinn n s s sf p T fT fT                                         (2) 
 
where np  denotes the transmit power in the thn  subcarrier; 
sT  denotes the symbol duration. The interference introduced 
by the thn  subcarrier of the CR user to the thl  PU’s band 
can be written as 
 
 
( )
/ 2
2 2( )
/ 2
( , ) sin
nl l
nl l
l
n
d B
l sp
n nl n n l s s s
d B
K
I d p p h T fT fT df 


 

       (3) 
 
where splh denotes the channel gain between the CR user’s 
transmitter and the thl  PU’s receiver; nld  denotes the 
distance in frequency between the thn  subcarrier of the CR 
user’s band and the thl  PU’s band; lB  denotes the 
bandwidth of the thl  PU’s band. The interference factor is 
defined as:  / 2 2( )
/ 2
sin
nl l
nl l
d B
l sp
n l s s
d B
K h T fT fT df 


  . 
B. Interference introduced by the Primary User’s signal 
After M-fast Fourier transform (FFT) processing, the 
power density spectrum of the PU signal can be written as: 
 
     21 sin( ) / 2
2 sin( ) / 2
jw
N PU
w ME I w e d
M w


  
        (4) 
 
where w  denotes the frequency normalized to the sampling 
frequency;  jwPU e  is the power density spectrum of the PU 
signal. The PU signal has been taken to be an elliptically 
filtered white noise process with amplitude PUP  [10]. The 
interference introduced by the thl  PU’s band to the thn  
subcarrier of CR users can be written as: 
 
  / 22( )
/ 2
nl
nl
d f
l ps
n l N
d f
J h E I w dw


                                         (5) 
 
where pslh  denotes the channel gain between the thl PU’s 
transmitter and the CR user’s receiver.  
In this report, we assume that the L PU’s bands are active 
while one CR user is transmitting in a frequency band. Our 
objective is to maximize the capacity of the CR user while 
keeping the interference introduced to the PU’s bands below 
the interference temperature level. The capacity (bits/sec/Hz) 
of the CR user, C , is defined as: 
 
Max
np
2 2 ( )
2
1 1
1 log 1
N L
ss l
n n n
n l
p h J
N

 
       
subject to 0np                          
( )
1 1
L N
l
n n th
l n
K p I
 
                                            (6) 
 
where N  denotes the total number of OFDM subcarriers; 
ss
nh denotes the channel gain of subcarrier n ; np  denotes the 
power allocated to the subcarrier n ; 2  denotes the noise 
power on subcarrier n ; ( )lnJ  denotes the inference introduced 
by the thl PU to the thn  subcarrier; thI  denotes the total the 
interference temperature level; ( )ln nK p  denotes the 
interference introduced by the CR users to PU’s bands. 
III. OPTIMAL ALLOCATION ALGORITHMS 
To solve this resource allocation problem (6), Lagrange 
formulation is introduced in [20-21]. The optimal power 
allocation is analyzed and obtained as: 
 
  22max 0,1 ssn n n np K J h                             (7) 
 
where   is the Lagrange multiplier; ( )
1
L
l
n n
l
K K

  ; 
( )
1
L
l
n n
l
J J

  . In this report, two optimal algorithms [20-21, 
23, 27] are adapted to solve the resource allocation problem 
(6) with the utilization of the optimal power allocation (7). 
A. subgradient-based algorithm 
The common way to solve the optimization problem is the 
gradient update method. However, the gradient may not exist 
sometimes. Therefore, the subgradient-based algorithm is 
utilized to solve the resource allocation problem (6). The 
procedure of a subgradient-based algorithm [23, 27] is 
described and adapted as follows: 
 5
B. The equal interference scheme 
The equal interference scheme considers the interference 
factor, nK  and the interference temperature level, thI in the 
design. It allocates power to subcarriers where each 
subcarrier has the same averaged interference temperature 
level constraint. The allocated power in each subcarrier is 
defined as: 
 
( )
1
( )
1
L
l B
n n th
l
L
B l
n th n th n
l
K p I N
p I N K I N K



  

 
                                 (14) 
 
It also has a low complexity of  1O and outperforms the 
step-ladder scheme. However, the allocated power to 
subcarriers is affected by the channel gain and the 
interference. It is not appropriate to consider the interference 
factor nK  only. 
C. The uniform power scheme  
The uniform power scheme does not consider the spectrum 
distance between CR users and PU bands and the interference 
factor nK . The uniform power Up  allocated to each 
subcarrier for a given interference temperature level is 
expressed as: 
 
( ) ( )
1 1 1 1
N K N L
l U U l
n th th n
n k n l
K p I p I K
   
                        (15) 
 
 All subcarriers are assigned with the same power. It also 
has a low complexity of  1O . But, its performance is worse 
than those of the step-ladder scheme and the equal 
interference scheme 
V. IMPROVED MECHANISMS 
The main idea of the improved mechanisms is to select 
subcarriers that could enhance the capacity greatly. By the 
improved mechanisms, some undesired subcarriers would not 
be used. More power would be allocated to those active 
subcarriers in order to improve the capacity. The optimal 
allocation algorithms reveal that not all subcarriers should be 
allocated with power. This condition motivates us to develop 
the improved mechanisms to select subcarriers. Two 
improved mechanisms based on the heuristic allocation 
schemes are proposed and compared in this report.  
A. The nulling mechanism  
We know that the mutual interference between PUs and 
SUs is related with the spectrum distance. One improved 
mechanism is to null and allocate zero power to those 
subcarriers that are adjacent to the PU band [10, 20-21] 
because those subcarriers produce the maximum amount of 
interference which affects PUs. The channel condition of 
subcarriers is not considered. In this report, we will utilize the 
one-nulling case for the three heuristic schemes to compare 
in the simulations.  The one-nulling case means that we null 
one subcarrier which is the closest to PUs’ bands as shown in 
Fig. 1. The nulling mechanism would improve the 
performance obviously. But, not all nulled subcarriers are not 
always able to be used. The nulling mechanism only 
considers the interference. It motivates us to develop a new 
mechanism which can fully utilize the information of the 
channel condition and the mutual interference. 
B. The selecting mechanism 
The optimal power allocation (7) can be re-expressed as: 
 
 
  
22
22
1
1 1
ss
n n n n
ss
n n n n
p K J h
K K J h
 
 
  
  
 
                           (16) 
 
We can find that the allocated power is related to the 
water-level 1  , the interference-to-channel fading ratio 
  22 ssn n nK J h   , and the mutual interference 1 nK . The 
difference between the water-level and the interference-to-
channel gain ratio determines that power allocated to 
subcarriers could be zero or positive. Therefore, we propose 
the interference-to-channel fading ratio as an index to 
determine the quality of subcarriers: 
 
  22ICR ssn n n nK J h                                              (17) 
 
In this report, we propose a selecting mechanism by using 
the interference-to-channel fading ratio (17). By the use of 
the proposed indicator, we can determine the quality of 
subcarriers easily. Both the interference and the channel 
condition are considered. The procedure of the proposed 
selecting mechanism based on the equal interference scheme 
is as follows: 
 
Step 1: Sort the subcarriers in ascending order by the value 
of the interference-to-channel fading ratio ICR n : 
      2 2 21' 1' 2 ' 2 ' ' '
2 2 2
1' 2 ' '
... N N
ss ss ss
N
K J K J K J
h h h
      
     
     (18) 
 
where 'n  denotes the subcarrier index with rank n after 
sorting. Set tN N . It means the number of subcarriers 
allocated with power. Go to Step 2. 
 
Step 2: Set 1 1t tN N   . Compute the power allocated to 
subcarriers as in (14) and the corresponding capacity (6). If 
the capacity is increased, go to Step 3. Otherwise, go to Step 
4. 
 
 7
be a good choice to select subcarriers by the selecting 
mechanism based on the interference-to-channel fading ratio. 
In Fig. 6, we show the capacity comparison of the CR user 
versus different interference temperature level constraints 
with the nulling mechanism. The optimal performance bound 
is obtained by the subgradient-based algorithm and the 
iterative algorithm. It can be observed that the equal 
interference scheme outperforms the step-ladder scheme and 
the uniform power scheme. The same performance trend can 
be found after the nulling mechanism is added. However, the 
performance of the equal interference scheme with the 
nulling mechanism is not near the optimal solution. The 
proposed threshold-based scheme outperforms three the 
heuristic allocation schemes with the nulling mechanism. 
In Fig. 7, we show the capacity comparison of the CR user 
versus different interference temperature level constraints 
with the selecting mechanism. The performances of the 
uniform power scheme and the equal interference scheme 
with the selecting mechanism are greatly enhanced. The 
performance of the equal interference scheme with the 
selecting mechanism is almost close to that of the optimal 
solution.  The selecting mechanism outperforms the nulling 
mechanism. The proposed threshold-based scheme with a 
low computational complexity of  O N  still shows a 
competitive performance. 
VIII. CONCLUSION 
In this report, we propose an interference-to-channel 
fading ratio indicator to determine the quality of subcarriers. 
Both the channel fading condition and the mutual 
interference between the primary user and the secondary user 
are well considered. The drawback of the nulling mechanism 
which considers the interference only could be enhanced. The 
proposed selecting mechanism based on the proposed 
interference-to-channel fading ratio is developed to improve 
the performance greatly. A threshold-based scheme is also 
designed to reduce the computational complexity. The 
proposed threshold-based scheme outperforms those heuristic 
schemes for comparison with the nulling mechanism. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Federal Communications Commission, “Spectrum Policy Task Force,” 
Report of Spectrum Efficiency Working Group, Nov. 2002. 
[2] J. Mitola and G. Q. Maguire, “Cognitive radio: Making software radios 
more personal,” IEEE Pers. Commun., vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 13-18, Aug. 
1999. 
[3] S. Haykin, “Cognitive radio: Brain-empowered wireless 
communications,” IEEE J. Select. Areas Commun., vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 
201-220, Feb. 2005. 
[4] A. J. Goldsmith and P. P. Varaiya, “Capacity of fading channels with 
channel side information,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 43, no. 6, pp. 
1986-1992, Nov. 1997. 
[5] E. Biglieri, J. Proakis, and S. Shamai, “Fading channels: information-
theoretic and communications aspects,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 
44, no. 6, pp. 2619-2692, Oct. 1998. 
[6] T. M. Cover and J. A. Thomas, Elements of Information Theory. New 
York: Wiley and Sons, 1991. 
[7] D. P. Palomar and J. R. Fonollosa, “Practical algorithms for a family of 
waterfilling solutions,” IEEE Trans. Signal Process., vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 
686-695, Feb. 2005. 
[8] D. Tse and P. Viswanath, Fundamentals of WirelessCommunication. 
Cambridge University Press, 2005. 
[9] W. Yu and J. M. Cioffi, “Constant-Power waterfilling: performance 
bound and low-complexity implementation,” IEEE Trans. Commun., 
vol. 54, no. 1, pp. 23-28, Jan. 2006. 
[10] T. Weiss, J. Hillenbrand, A. Krohn, and F. K. Jondral, “Mutual 
interference in OFDM-based spectrum pooling systems,” in Proc. IEEE 
Vehicular Technol. Conf., vol. 4, pp. 1873-1877, May 2004. 
[11] N. Devroye, P. Mitran, and V. Tarokh, “Achievable rates in cognitive 
channels,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 52, no. 5, pp. 1813-1827,May 
2006. 
[12] T. Qin and C. Leung, “Fair adaptive resource allocation for multiuser 
OFDM cognitive radio systems,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Commun. 
and Networking in China, pp. 115-119, Aug. 2007. 
[13] L. Zhang, Y.-C. Liang, and Y. Xin, “Joint beamforming and power 
allocation for multiple access channels in cognitive radio networks,” 
IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 26, no. 1, pp. 38-51, Jan. 2008. 
[14] X. Kang, Y.-C. Liang, and A. Nallanathan, “Optimal power allocation 
for fading channels in cognitive radio networks under transmit and 
interference power constraints,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Commun., 
pp. 3568-3572, May 2008. 
[15] Y. Zhang and C. Leung, “Subcarrier, bit, and power allocation for 
multiuser OFDM-based multi-cell cognitive radio systems,” in Proc. 
IEEE Vehicular Technology Conf., pp. 1-5. Sept. 2008. 
[16] M. G. Khoshkhogh, K. Navaie, and H. Yanikomeroglu, “Impact of 
secondary service transmit power constraint on the achievable capacity 
of spectrum sharing in Rayleigh fading environment,” IEEE Commun. 
Letter, vol. 12, no. 12, pp.865-867, Dec. 2008. 
[17] X. Kang, Y.-C. Liang, A. Nallanathan, H. K. Garg, and R. Zhang, 
“Optimal power allocation for fading channels in cognitive radio 
networks: Ergodic capacity and outage capacity,” IEEE Trans. Wireless 
Commun., vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 940-950, Feb. 2009. 
[18] S. M. Almalfouh and G. L. Stuber, “Interference aware subcarrier and 
power allocation in OFDMA-based cognitive radio networks,” Lecture 
Notes in Electrical Engineering, vol. 41, pp. 35-45, 2009. 
[19] M. Shaat and F. Bader, “Power allocation with interference constraint 
in multicarrier based cognitive radio systems,” Lecture Notes in 
Electrical Engineering, vol. 41, pp. 259-268, 2009. 
[20] G. Bansal, Md. J. Hossain, and V. K. Bhargava, “Adaptive power 
loading for OFDM-based cognitive radio systems,” in Proc. IEEE Int. 
Conf. on Commun., pp. 5137-5142, June 2007. 
[21] G. Bansal, Md. J. Hossain, and V. K. Bhargava, “Optimal and 
suboptimal power allocation schemes for OFDM-based cognitive radio 
systems,,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 7, no. 11, pp. 4710-
4718, Nov. 2008. 
[22] A. Attar, O. Holland, M. R. Nakhai, and A. H. Aghvami, “Interference-
limited resource allocation for cognitive radio in orthogonal frequency-
division multiplexing netwoks,” IET Commun,, vol. 2, no. 6, pp. 806-
814, July 2008. 
[23] D. T. Ngo, C. Tellambura, and H. H. Nguyen, “Resource allocation for 
OFDM-based cognitive radio multicast networks,” in Proc. IEEE 
Wireless Commun. and Networking Conf., pp. 1-6, April 2009. 
[24] J. Jang and K. B. Lee, “Transmit power adaptation for multiuser OFDM 
systems,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 171-178, Feb. 
2003. 
[25] K. Kim, Y. Han, and S.-L. Kim, “Joint subcarrier and power allocation 
in uplink OFDMA systems,” IEEE Commun. Letters, vol. 9, no. 6, pp. 
526-528, Jun. 2005. 
[26] T. Weiss and F. K. Jondral, “Spectrum pooling: An innovative strategy 
for the enhancement of spectrum efficiency,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 
43, no. 3, pp. S8–S14, Mar. 2004. 
[27] S. Boyd and L. Vandenberghe, Convex Optimization. Cambridge 
University Press, March 2004. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 97-2221-E-008-053- 
計畫名稱 認知網路之適應性傳輸技術研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳永芳    
中央大學通訊工程學系, 副教授 
會議時間地點 April 5-8, 2009.  匈牙利布達拉斯 
會議名稱 2009 IEEE International Wireless Communications and Networking Conference 
發表論文題目 Improved Schemes for Subcarrier, Bit, and Power Allocation inMultiuser OFDM Systems 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
本人於 04/02/2009 啟程先前往維也納參訪，於 4/5/2009 到達匈牙利布達拉斯先熟
悉會場位置與地理環境。本人此次發表一篇論文，安排於第二天會議下午 OFDMA II 
Session 做口頭報告。在此次研討會，個人特別聆聽 Keynote speech 的演講，了解關於
未來無線通訊的新趨勢與展望，獲益不少，對未來的研究方向也較為清悉。因本人過去
數年從事與智慧型天線、多天線系統研究以、及資源配置研究等相關議題，也開啟了個
人之其它相關研究動機。此外本人也與一些研究生與學者交流一些研究心得，了解其它
天研究領域做些甚麼研究內容，希冀能有些新的研究動機與想法。於會議結束後進行參
訪，於後三天 4/12/2009 上午啟程回台。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
此次會議於匈牙利布達拉斯舉行，會議中與幾位其它地區的研究生與教師交換意
見，了解其它地區學者在研究上之積極性，此為個人研究更為積極之壓力與動力。本人
於此次研討會了解之未來無線通訊研究方向，這對個人研究方向之啟發頗為重要，可為
本人於未來研究有所依據。在參加會議之餘，參觀了一些歐洲城市的事物，讓個人了解
到歐洲之文化。在聽完 Keynote speech 的演講，了解對下世代無線通訊的趨勢與可行的
解決方案，都有賴通訊系統研究者去解決，而並非仰賴其它硬體、或半導體研究者，像
跨層設計、Wi-Fi mesh、CR 等等都是熱門的研究主題。 
 
II. SYSTEM MODEL 
Assume the system has K users and N subcarriers. A subset 
of N subcarriers is assigned to a user, and the number of bits is 
also determined on downlink transmission. {hn,k} denotes the 
channel gains over all N subcarriers for the k-th user at 
subcarrier n. The number of bits of the n-th subcarrier 
assigned to user k is
,n kr . The required received power kf  at a 
particular data error rate is a function of bits per symbol ,n kr . 
The power of noise is normalized to one. It is not allowed a 
subcarrier is shared among different users. Therefore, we 
define 
 
,
,
,
1,    0
0,    0
n k
n k
n k
if r
if r
ρ
≠⎧
= ⎨
=⎩
                                  (1) 
 
The variable ,n kρ  is either 1 or 0, and the sum of all ,n kρ  is 
equal to 1 for any particular n. The required transmit power 
can be expressed as  
 
( ),
,2
,1 1
N K
k n k
n k
n kn k
f r
P
h
ρ
= =
=∑∑                                 (2) 
 
Data rates { }1 2, ,..., KR R R are predetermined parameters for 
each user. The bit error rate must be ensured at a certain level 
to meet the service quality. The subcarrier, bit, and power 
allocation problem for the minimization of total transmit 
power is formulated as 
 
   
, ,,
 
n k n kr
Min
ρ
        
( ),
,2
,1 1
N K
k n k
n k
n kn k
f r
h
ρ
= =
∑∑  
 subject to  ,
1
1,    1,2,...
K
n k
k
for n Nρ
=
= =∑  
                   ,
1
,     1,2,...,
N
n k k
n
r R for k K
=
= =∑                          (3) 
 
This nonlinear optimization problem can be solved by 
employing integer programming (IP) [2]. Therefore, the 
formulation to achieve the optimal solution for the 
performance comparison is briefly summarized as follows [2]. 
If { }, 0,1,...,n kr M∈ , then  
 
                  ( ) ( ) ( ){ }, 0, 1 ,...,k n k k kf r f f M∈                              (4) 
 
A new indicator variable , ,n k rγ  is defined as 
 
, ,
, ,
1,    1 and 
0,  otherwise                    
n k n k
n k r
if r rργ = =⎧= ⎨⎩
                       (5) 
    
where { }0,1,...,r M∈ . It follows that (4) is rewritten as  
 
                ( ) ( ), , ,
0
M
k n k n k r k
r
f r f rγ
=
=∑                                   (6) 
 
The required transmit power in (2) can be re-expressed as 
 
( )
, , ,2
,1 1 0
N K M
k
n k r n k
n kn k r
f r
P
h
γ ρ
= = =
⎧ ⎫⎪ ⎪
= ⎨ ⎬⎪ ⎪⎩ ⎭∑∑ ∑                        (7) 
 
    The indicators , ,n k rγ  and ,n kρ  are related as 
 
, , ,
0
M
n k n k r
r
ρ γ
=
=∑                                   (8) 
 
   (7) is rewritten as a linear cost function: 
 
( )
, , 2
,1 1 0
N K M
k
n k r
n kn k r
f r
P
h
γ
= = =
=∑∑∑                           (9) 
 
The linear integer programming-based branch-and-bound 
algorithm [3] can be employed to solve this problem. In 
general, integer programming is a full-search approach which 
needs exponential computational time in the worse cases. 
Therefore, we usually propose suboptimal schemes to solve 
the subcarrier, bit, and power allocation problems for the 
OFDMA systems. 
III. TWO-PHASE SUBCARRIER, BIT, AND POWER 
ALLOCATION ALGORITHMS 
The two-phase allocation algorithms in [4-5] contain the 
initial subcarrier assignment and the iterative improvement 
two steps. Subcarriers are initially assigned to users by an 
initial subcarrier assignment scheme in [4-5], but the schemes 
need to pre-determine the number of subcarriers for each user. 
After the initial subcarrier assignment, the iterative 
improvement schemes are used to enhance the performance. 
The number of subcarriers for each user can be fixed [4] or be 
adapted [5] through different iterative improvement schemes. 
The two phases in the allocation process are described as 
follows.  
  
Phase 1: Initial Subcarrier Assignments (ISA) 
 
One of the two initial subcarrier assignment methods [4, 6] 
can be adopted in the first phase: 
 
A. 1ISA : Constructive initial assignment (CIA) [4] 
CIA needs to pre-determine the numbers of subcarriers for 
each user. The subcarriers assigned to users are based on 
channel conditions. The procedure of CIA is described as 
follows. 
This full text paper was peer reviewed at the direction of IEEE Communications Society subject matter experts for publication in the WCNC 2009 proceedings.
assigned to each user is predetermined and fixed throughout 
the process in the algorithm.  
 
B. 2IIS : Enhanced subcarrier allocation algorithm [5] 
It is believed that the required total transmit power can be 
further reduced if the number of subcarriers for each user 
could be adaptively adjusted. Referring to the Fig. 2, the 
enhanced subcarrier allocation algorithm performs either the 
swapping or the reallocation operation. The reallocation 
operation is to assign a subcarrier which is owned by one user 
to another user. kS  is the number of subcarriers assigned to 
user k. Similar to the swapping operation, only one case 
related to the maximum power reduction would be selected to 
reallocate subcarriers between paired users. The power 
reduction factor *,i jP  for the reallocation operation is defined 
as  
 
* * *
, , ,i j i j j iP P P= Δ + Δ                                                             (11) 
 
where ( ) ( )*, 1i j i iP P S P SΔ = − − and ( ) ( )*, 1j i j jP P S P SΔ = − + . 
The merged power reduction list becomes 
 
{ }* *, ,,me i j i jP P= ∪ =P P P                                                 (12) 
 
The number of subcarriers for each user would be different 
from the number determined in the initial subcarrier 
assignment step. The major difference in the enhanced 
subcarrier allocation algorithm [5] is the power reduction list 
containing the swapping and the reallocation operations. 
 
 
 
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS 
The frequency selective wireless channel model used in [7] 
is adopted. Perfect channel estimation is assumed. Each user 
has the same requested data rate. The channel power of the 
received signal for each user is varied due to various path 
losses at the different locations. The set of the switching levels 
in [8] for the modulation types is employed, including no 
transmit, QPSK, 16QAM, and 64QAM. The total allowed data 
rate is 36 Mbits/s, and the symbol rate per subcarrier is 250k 
symbols/s. There are 48 subcarriers in the simulations. The 
center frequency is 5 GHz. The frame duration is 10 ms. The 
optimal allocation solutions are obtained by using the linear 
integer programming-based branch-and-bound algorithm 
(BnB) [2-3]. Figs. 3-5 show the relative transmit power 
compared with the reference points for the numbers of users = 
3, 4, 6, 8 with different target BERs and channel power 
differences.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 3.5 4 4.5 5 5.5 6 6.5 7 7.5 8
-3
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
No. of users
Re
la
tiv
e 
Po
w
er
 
(dB
)
 
 
ISA 1
ISA 2
ISA 1 + IIS 1
ISA 2 + IIS 1 (Proposed)
ISA 1 + IIS 2
ISA 2 + IIS 2 (Proposed)
BnB
 
 
 
Fig. 4.  Performance comparison in terms of required transmit power among
three schemes, the largest channel power difference among users = 15dB,
target BER= 410− . 
3 3.5 4 4.5 5 5.5 6 6.5 7 7.5 8
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
No. of users
Re
la
tiv
e 
Po
w
er
 
(dB
)
 
 
ISA 1
ISA 2
ISA 1 + IIS 1
ISA 2 + IIS 1 (Proposed)
ISA 1 + IIS 2
ISA 2 + IIS 2 (Proposed)
BnB
 
 
 
Fig. 3.  Performance comparison in terms of required transmit power among
seven schemes, the largest channel power difference among users = 15dB,
target BER= 210− . 
Initial subcarrier
assignment
Swapping
Perform the 
associated 
operation with 
the maximum 
improvement in 
the list
Reallocation
Exit
Any 
improvement
?
YesNo
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Block diagram of the heuristic algorithm based on the initial 
subcarrier assignments and the iterative improvement schemes. 
This full text paper was peer reviewed at the direction of IEEE Communications Society subject matter experts for publication in the WCNC 2009 proceedings.
