2Video Object Tracking Using Feature Distribution and Adaptive
Kalman Filter
摘要
在本計劃，將提出一個有效的適應性卡曼濾波器和特徵分佈的方法來偵測追蹤運動物
體。在運動物體偵測上，為增加對光線變化的忍受能力，將採用 HSI 彩色系統將亮度及彩
度分離比對運動物體。在運動物體位置估測上，計劃中提出藉由運動物體偵測結果，計算
其被覆蓋比率，並以此比率動態地調整卡曼濾波器參數，使能成為適應性卡曼濾波器。實
驗顯示，此方法可以適用於追蹤物體被嚴重的遮蔽、光線改變、方位改變、有混亂的背景
時、物體快速運動、攝影機運動、攝影機鏡頭伸縮及運動速度突然改變等狀況之追蹤。由
於此方法有效的追蹤運動物體，使得在應用上具實用性。
關鍵詞：視訊運動物體追蹤、HSI 彩色系統、被覆蓋比率、適應性卡曼濾波器
Abstract
In this project, a new moving object tracking method is proposed. First, we analyze the color of
moving object and extract the dominant color to represent object feature in RGB color space. Then,
we transform the dominant color of feature in RGB color space to HSI color space and match the
feature in the consecutive video frames. Then, an adaptive Kalman filter is proposed to estimate the
position of object in the consecutive frames under a complex environment which the target may
disappear totally or partially due to occlusion by other objects. The proposed method is very
efficient and it can be implemented easily.
Keywords: Video object tracking, HSI color space, adaptive Kalman filter, occlusion ratio
1. Introduction
The researches for segmenting, estimating and tracking semantic objects in video have received
great attention for the last few years [1-10]. The moving object tracking is an important issue in
video system, such as surveillance, sports reporting, video annotation and traffic management
system. However, if the background and moving objects vary dynamically, such situations will be
difficult to solve. In video analysis, we have to know the attributes of moving objects, such as color,
texture and shape, etc, so that the moving object can be recognized and be tracked. There are some
situations for video in a real world environment, including camera lens is fixed or not, number of
tracking objects, rigid object or non-rigid object, occlusion by the other objects, one or many
cameras, full automatic or semi-automatic semantic object tracking, etc. According to the above
discussion, to concluded, we will encounter the following three problems for tracking moving
object.
 Initial moving object segmenting problem
 Measurement of moving object
 Tracking the moving target in occlusion
In the initial moving object segmenting problem, the methods of [5][9][14] use the user’s
assistance to appoint a moving object as target. This is called semi-automatic system. Or, in the
environment of still background, [3] [8] apply the difference information of two consecutive
frames to extract the moving objects. For the sake of simplicity, to solve this problem, most of
methods assume that they are in the environment of still background in the initial state.
4t–1, t and t+1. It uses the differences of consecutive frames to detect the change area of frames,
and then the segmented target is obtained by the differences between the three consecutive frames.
Since that the user has assigned a moving object as target, therefore, for reducing the complexity,
the frame difference will be operated within the range of a circle withcenter at the user’s selector
locating position and radius 50 points rather than within all frame. The differential frame can be
defined as


 
otherwise1
),,()1,,(if0
),,(
thresholdtyxftyxf
tyxFD (1)
where f(x,y,t) and f(x,y,t+1) are the pixels at position (x,y) in frame t and t+1. The frame is in
RGB color space and the pixels in frame t are defined as  tyxtyxtyx BGRtyxf ,,,,,, ,,),,(  . If the
absolute of the difference is smaller than the threshold, it is the background and FD(x,y,t) = 0.
Otherwise, it is the target object and FD(x,y,t) = 1.
To improve the segmentation accuracy, three consecutive frames are used to segment the
moving object. The segmented moving object is obtained through the intersect of the two
differences, FD(x,y,t-1) and FD(x,y,t), which are the differences between three consecutive
frames. Therefore, the points of segmented moving object is defined as
),,()1,,(),,( tyxFDtyxFDtyxMR  . (2)
The set of segmented moving object area is described as
 1),,(|),(  tyxMRyxMRS (3)
2.1.2 Region growing
Since that the frame difference method possibly yields several segmented moving objects in
the operated range, for constructing a complete object region, the region growing method is used
at the segmented moving object which user assigns. The region growing method uses the
operations of morphology and set. It is defined as
,3,2,1)( 1   kMRSSEMOMO kk (4)
where MO is the region point set of object, 0MO is the initial point set which user’s selector
locates, kMO is the kth iterated region dilation result,  is the dilation operator, SE is the
structuring element, MRS is defined in Eq.(3). Once the object region has been defined, the
dominant color of the moving object will be extracted by the method mentioned in the following
section.
2.1.3 Dominant color feature extraction
To find the dominant color, we process feature extraction in the RGB color space. The RGB
color space is represented by a 3-dimensional cube with red, green and blue additive primaries.
Since that the RGB color space forms a color cube, the scale of the three components are
identical. It can do the distance calculation with the same weighting for K-means classification in
RGB color space. Therefore, it does more easily in RGB color space than in the others.
Firstly, the moving object colors in RGB components are classified by K-means [16]. The K is
experimentally set as 5. The color pixels of moving object are classified into different K groups
by color and the average color of the K groups in frame t is defined as )(tMCk . If the color pixel
62, then the matching range will need to be expanded. The OR(t) is the occlusion rate and z(t) is
the measured object position. The occlusion rate is the ratio of the occlusion area (pixels number)
in frame t to that in frame t-1. The ratio is calculated for adjusting the error parameters of the
proposed adaptive Kalman filter which will be mentioned in next section. The occlusion rate is
defined as


 

 
otherwise
11
1
if
1
1
1




 
 tPN
tPN
tPN
tPN
t (7)
where )(tPN and )1( tPN are the pixel number of the moving object in frame t and t-1,
respectively. The value 1 represents the totally occluded. In addition, the main color is updated
per 10 frames (t mod 10) since that the frame illumination probably changes in a real world
environment.
2.3 Tracking the moving object
After the moving object is measured, the position and occlusion rate of the moving object are
obtained. In fact, a simple direct tracking method has been built. However, if we have to estimate
the motion information of object under such a deteriorating condition as occlusion, the direct
tracking method will not be able to measure and track the moving object correctly. Therefore, in
this section, an adaptive Kalman filter is proposed to improve the accuracy of the estimated
motion information. The system adjusts adaptively the error parameters of Kalman filter to obtain
accurate estimation position. In addition, before applying the adaptive Kalman filter, the moving
model of the moving object has to be built. About the moving model, the discrete-time moving
equation is used and it is assumed that it is in uniform velocity within a frame interval, therefore,
the velocity of moving object is replaced as parameter of system by position. In the following two
subsections, firstly, the proposed adaptive Kalman filter will be discussed. Then, the moving
object model used to build the adaptive Kalman filter is explained.
2.3.1 The proposed adaptive Kalman filter
The Kalman filter has been used in engineering application successfully. The Kalman filter
has two distinctive features. One is that its mathematical model is described in terms of state-space
concepts. The other is that its solution is computed recursively. Usually, the Kalman filter is
described by system state model and measurement model. The state-space model is described as
System state model : )()1()1()( tttt wsΦs  (8)
and
Measurement model: )()()()( tttt vsHz  (9)
where )1( tΦ and H(t) are the state transition matrix and measurement matrix, respectively.
The w(t) and v(t) are white Gaussian noise with zero mean and
kl
T lkE Qww )}()({
kl
T lkE Rvv )}()({ (10)
where kl denotes the Kronecker delta function; Q and R are covariance matrices of w(t) and v(t),
respectively. The state vector s(t) of the current time t is predicted from the previous estimate and
8is less than the threshold, then the measurement error R is reasonably set to occlusion rate )(t
and prediction error is )(1 t . Otherwise, the measurement error is infinite and the prediction
error is zero. According to the occlusion rate, the Kalman filter system is adjusted adaptively.
2.3.2 Discrete moving model
Before estimating the position of the moving object with adaptive Kalman filter, the moving
model has to be determined. The time in the frame interval is very short. The moving object can
be thought at the equal velocity and the moving model is discrete in the frame interval. Therefore,
the moving distance in every interval is equal and the moving model of object in current position
p(t) can be set as
))2()1(()1()(  tptptptp (20)
where p(t-1) and p(t-2) are the previous one and two position, respectively. By using Eq. (8) and
(20), the state space representation of Kalman filter can be described as
       













 
02
1
01
12
11
tw
tp
tp
tttt wsΦs (21)
where     





2
1
1
tp
tp
ts and  


 
01
12
tΦ .
2.3.3 Estimation
In estimation step, the occlusion rate is used to adjust the estimation parameters of Kalman
filter. According to Eq. (17), the Kalman gain K(t) is in an inverse proportion to the measurement
error R(t). If the occlusion rate is less than the threshold, then the value of R(t) is set as occlusion
rate )(t and the prediction error Q(t-1) of Eq.(16) is 1- )(t . Otherwise, it is reasonable to let
the measurement error R(t) and the prediction error Q(t-1) be infinity and zero, respectively, thus
the Kalman gain K(t) is a zero value. That is to say, if the occlusion rate is less than the threshold,
then the measured result will be trusted more than predicted one. Otherwise, the system will trust
the predicted result completely. In addition, using the moving model in previous subsection, the
parameters of measurement model in Eq. (9) are defined as   





1tp
tp
ts ,   01tH and
  tpt z . By this way, the Kalman filter can be adjusted automatically to estimate the moving
object.
3. Experimental results
In this section, we make comparisons between the proposed adaptive Kalman filter method
and the others which they are direct tracking method without Kalman filter involved and typical
Kalman filter. In experimental environment, the PC with AMD XP 2400 processor, Window XP
operation system and Borland C++ Builder 6.0 are used. In addition, the video image consists of
bitmap image sequence with 352*240 pixels per frame. Two kinds of experimental videos are
used, including the moving object which is moving fast suddenly and the moving object
disappearing totally or partially due to occlusion by other ones.
It is noted that a rectangle window is shown to track the moving target in all of our
experiments. In the first experiment, the typical Kalman filter is applied. In this method, the
system is the same as section 2.3 except that both of the prediction error and measurement error
are set as constant. They are experimentally given 0.8 and 0.2, respectively. The flowchart is
10
Proceedings., Fourth IEEE Workshop on , pp. 8-14, 19-21 Oct. 1998.
[9] Johnson I Agbinya and David Rees,”Multi-Object Tracking in Video,”Real-Time Imaging 5,
pp. 295-304, 1999.
[10] Roberta Piroddi and Theodore Vlachos, “Multiple-Feature Spatiotemporal Segmentation of
Moving Sequences using a Rule-based Approach,”British Machine Vision Conference, pp.
353-362, 2002
[11] Volker Rehrmann, “Object Oriented Motion Estimation in Color Image Sequences,”ECCV
'98, Vol. I, LNCS 1406, pp. 704-719, 1998.
[12] Michael Mason and Zoran Duric, “Using Histograms to Detect and Track Objects in Color
Video,”Applied Imagery Pattern Recognition Workshop, AIPR 2001 30th , pp. 154-159, 10-12
Oct. 2001.
[13] Georgi D. Borshukov, Gozde Bozdagi, Yucel Altunbasak and A. Murat Tekalp, “Motion
Segmentation by Multistage Affine Classification,”IEEE Transactions on Image Processing,
Vol. 6, No. 11, pp. 1591-1594, Nov 1997.
[14] George V. Paul, Glenn J. Beach and Charles J. Cohen,“A Realtime Object Tracking System
Using a Color Camera,”Applied Imagery Pattern Recognition Workshop, AIPR 2001 30th , pp.
137-142, 10-12 Oct 2001.
[15] Jong Bae Kim, Hye Sun Park, Min Ho Park and Hang Joon Kim, “A Real-Time
Region-Based Motion Segmentation Using Adaptive Thresholding and K-means Clustering,”
Kyungpook National University, Computer Engineering, 702-701, 1370, Sangyuk-dong,
Puk-gu, Taegu, South Korea.
[16] Vance Faber, “Clustering and the Continuous k-Means Algorithm,”Los Alamos Science
Number 22, pp. 138-144, 1994.
Figure Caption
Fig. 1 The system structure of the proposed method
Fig. 2 The structure of moving object measurement
Fig. 3 The flowchart of moving object estimation
Fig. 4 The flowchart of typical Kalman filter tracking method
Fig. 5 The tracking experimental results of typical Kalman filter
Fig. 6 The flowchart of adaptive Kalman filter tracking method
Fig. 7 The tracking experimental results of proposed adaptive Kalman filter
Fig. 8 The experimental results by using adaptive Kalman filter in the sequence which the
moving person is occluded totally and more time
12
Fig. 3 The flowchart of moving object estimation
Fig. 4 The flowchart of typical Kalman filter tracking method
Tracking Results
User
Interface
User appoints a
moving object
as target
Initial Object
segmentation and
feature extraction
Moving
Object
Measurement
Estimate the object
position with
typical Kalman
filter
Moving object’s occlusion rate
Occlusion rate
< Threshold ?
)()(
)(1)1(
tt
tt




R
Q


)(
0)1(
t
t
R
Q
Adaptive Kalman filter
Moving object’s position
NoYes
14
Fig. 6 The flowchart of adaptive Kalman filter tracking method
（a）The 50th frame （b）The 118th frame
（c）The 127th frame （d）The 129th frame
（e）The 134th frame （f）The 140th frame
Fig. 7 The tracking experimental results of proposed adaptive Kalman filter
Tracking Results
User
Interface
Appoint a
moving object
as target
Initial Object
segmentation and
feature extraction
Moving
Object
MeasurementEstimate the object
position with
Adaptive Kalman
filter
16
計畫成果自評
一、研究內容與原計畫相符程度
由研究成果顯示，本計畫研究內容與原計畫相符，並且有以下的成果：
1. 發展出一個簡單合理有效的視訊運動物體追蹤方法，以適用於即時系統，成果有
令人滿意的效果。
2. 提出以追蹤物體被遮蔽率來設定卡曼濾波器之估測誤差及量測誤差，因而使系統
可以適應性地調整要比較相信估測值或量測值，可以增加追蹤的正確性。
3. 由於以追蹤物體被遮蔽率(occlusion ratio)來判定系統估測值或量測值之正確性，因
此，當追蹤物被長時間完全遮蔽(long-time occlusion)時，仍可以用預估的方式追蹤
物體。追蹤物被長時間完全遮蔽之忍受能力，比目前最新的方法更久。
4. 提出的方法也可以適用於追蹤物體被嚴重的遮蔽、光線改變、方位改變、有混亂
的背景時、攝影機運動、攝影機鏡頭伸縮及運動速度突然改變等狀況之追蹤，以
達到強韌性之能力。
二、達成預期目標情況
完成之工作項目
1. 提出新的且可以適用於真實環境之視訊運動物體追蹤方法。
2. 分析歸納出比較其他方法的優劣點。
3. 使研究人員對視訊運動物體特性及追蹤技術上能更了解，使得在影像處理研究領
域上，能力得以提昇。
三、研究成果之學術或應用價值
計畫案，將得到以下具體成果 :
1. 發表論文於國際期刊。
2. 對影像處理、電腦視覺及運動物體追蹤在學術研究及應用上有所幫助，如安全監
視系統等。
3. 提昇教學品質。由於經費的支援，可以獲得軟硬設備，以增進教學效果及便利性。。
四、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利
己有論文發表於國際期刊.
Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, Volume 17, Issue 6, December
