 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
TAT 路徑於表現基因重組蛋白質之應用 
Applications of Tat pathway for the translocation of recombinant proteins 
計畫編號：NSC94－2214－E－005－010 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：林松池   中興大學化工系 
計畫參與人員：李思禹 黃冠傑  中興大學化工系 
 
一、中文摘要 
大腸桿菌雙精胺酸轉位系統(twin-arginine 
translocation, Tat)為一新穎之蛋白輸送系統，其
特色僅輸送摺疊完整並具有輔因子之蛋白質
至細胞間質(periplasm)以便利於純化操作及雙
硫鍵之形成。將綠螢光蛋白(green fluorescent 
protein, GFP)之 N 端融合一段 Tat 系統訊息導
引胜肽 , TorA, 藉由此胜肽與一 chaperone, 
TorD,專一性的結合發現可提升 GFP 利用 Tat
系統轉位之效率達三倍以上，此現象主要因素
在於共表現TorD 可減緩GFP被蛋白水解酶水 
解之速率。 
 
二、Introduction 
It is often desirable to secrete recombinant 
proteins into the periplasm of Gram-negative 
bacteria such as E. coli for increasing the yields 
of soluble, active proteins. By secreting the 
recombinant proteins into the periplasm, the 
formation of the necessary disulfide bond pairs 
and the stability of can be promoted. The stability 
of secreted proteins can also be greatly enhanced 
due to the reduced proteolysis in the periplasm. 
Furthermore, the N-terminal authenticity of the 
secreted proteins can be better ensured as the 
signal peptides are cleaved in vivo during the 
translocation processes. The recovery and 
purification of secreted, periplasmic proteins can 
also be greatly simplified by selectively breaking 
the outer membrane without rupturing the 
cytoplasmic membrane. The secretion of proteins 
in E. coli is generally carried out via the 
well-characterized Sec pathway. Recently the Tat 
pathway has been identified in bacteria for the 
secretion of the periplasmic cofactor-containing 
proteins. Proteins secreted via the Tat pathway 
are guided by signal peptides exhibiting 
characteristic SRRxFLK motifs located at the 
boundary between the polar n-regions and the 
hydrophobic h-regions. The employment of the 
Tat pathway for protein secretion has enticed 
great research interests because of its capability 
in translocating multisubunit, cofactor-containing 
proteins in folded states. These remarkable 
characteristics of the Tat pathway make it a 
promising alternative for protein secretion, when 
the Sec pathway is deemed unsuitable due to its 
deficiency in secreting multimeric, disulfided, or 
cofactor-containing proteins. Nevertheless, the 
applicability of Tat system for protein secretion 
has been limited by its low translocation 
efficiency compared to that of the Sec system. 
This phenomenon warrants further studies aiming 
for the enhancement of translocation efficiency 
via the Tat pathway.  
The Tat system’s remarkable capability has 
brought up the question of how the proofreading 
process is carried out to prevent the premature 
translocation of unfolded or pre-assembled 
apoproteins. Among the several models proposed 
for such proofreading mechanism, the 
chaperone-assisted quality control model 
proposed by Sargent and coworkers is the most 
noteworthy. Based on the model proposed, the 
Tat signal peptides operate in tandem with 
specific cellular chaperones in the insertion of 
cofactors, the oligomerization, and the 
translocation of complex proteins, providing a 
preexport proofreading mechanism. By 
overexpressing TorD, enhanced Tat-mediated 
translocation of trimethylamino N-oxide (TAMO) 
reductase (TorA) and (NiFe) hydrogenase-2 with 
the TorA signal peptide was observed. It is 
believed that by its specific recognition of the 
signal peptide of TorA, TorD facilitates the 
loading of molybdenum cofactor and the 
oligomerization of protein subunits and prevents 
the premature translocation of the periplasmic 
redox enzymes. 
In this study we demonstrate that TorD 
enhances the translocation of GFP under the 
guidance of the TorA signal peptide, possibly by 
reducing the proteolysis of pre-GFP resulting 
from its specific binding to the TorA signal 
peptide.  
 
三、Materials and methods 
3.1 Bacterial strains, plasmids and growth 
conditions 
E. coli strain MC 4100, courtesy of Dr. 
Georgiou of the University of Texas, USA, was 
used throughout this study. Plasmids pTG, pGS, 
and pTGS encoding ssTorA-GFP, GFP-SsrA, and 
ssTorA-GFP-SsrA fusions, respectively, were 
also courtesy of Dr. Georgiou. Plasmid 
 4
Tat-mediated GFP translocation rather than 
enhanced GFP expression per se. To confirm this 
hypothesis, a set of experiments studying the 
effect of TorD coexpression on the specific 
fluorescence intensity of E. coli expressing 
GFP-SsrA fusion was conducted. Without the 
TorA signal peptide, the fusion proteins should 
remain in the cytoplasm and thus the variation in 
specific fluorescence intensity of the cells should 
reflect the cytoplasmic concentration of 
GFP-SsrA fusion. As shown in Fig.1, the specific 
fluorescence intensities of cells with and without 
TorD coexpression are essentially identical, 
indicating that the coexpression of TorD doesn’t 
either promote or repress the expression of GFP. 
In all cases, the specific fluorescence intensity of 
E. coli culture reached its maximum 2 hr after 
induction and then declined rapidly probably due 
to the SsrA-mediated proteolysis. Since the final 
specific fluorescence intensities of E. coli cells 
coexpressing TorD are either identical to or lower 
than that of the control, it can be asserted that 
TorD by itself does not interfere with the 
SsrA-mediated proteolysis. Therefore, the 
increase in specific fluorescence intensity 
observed in Fig. 1 can be attributed to the 
enhanced Tat-mediated translocation with TorD 
coexpression. Furthermore, by comparing the 
specific fluorescence intensities of E. coli cells 
expressing ssTorA-GFP-SsrA and GFP-SsrA, it 
is evident that GFP-SsrA fusion system is indeed 
an ideal protein reporter for the evaluation of the 
efficiency of TAT-mediated translocation in E. 
coli as proposed by Georgiou and coworkers.  
A series of fluorescence analysis with cells 
resuspended in fresh medium were also 
conducted. Although it is evident from the results 
described above that the coexpression of TorD 
enhances TAT-mediated translocation of 
ssTorA-GFP-SsrA, the results of specific 
fluorescence intensity measurement mentioned 
above can not be interpreted unequivocally due 
to the continuing expression of cytoplasmic GFP 
and the translocation of GFP into the periplasm 
after the onset of induction. To overcome this 
situation, after 1.5 hr induction of GFP 
expression, the cells expressing 
ssTorA-GFP-SsrA were harvested and 
resuspended in fresh medium without arabinose, 
and the residual specific fluorescence intensities 
of the cell suspensions were monitored. 
 
Fig. 2 Effect of TorD coexpression on the residual 
specific fluorescence intensity of E. coli cell 
expressing ssTorA-GFP-SsrA fusion in fresh 2X YT 
medium: (●) control: E. coli cells without TorD 
coexpression, (▼) E. coli cells coexpressing TorD 
from pSU-TorD, and (■) E. coli cells coexpressing  
TorD from pLAC-TorD. 
 
As expected the residual specific fluorescence 
intensities of the cell suspensions decreased with 
incubation, resulting probably from the 
continuing proteolysis of cytoplasmic GFP,  
Fig. 2. After 2 hr incubation in fresh medium, the 
residual specific fluorescence intensities, 
attributed mainly to periplasmic GFP, of E. coli 
coexpressing TorD from pLAC-TorD and 
pSU-TorD were ca. 240 % and 30 % higher than 
that of the control, respectively, further 
confirming the effect of TorD coexpression in 
enhancing the Tat-mediated translocation of 
ssTorA-GFP-SsrA fusion. 
Fluorescence microscopy analysis of the E. 
coli cells expressing ssTorA-GFP-SsrA fusion 
was performed. As shown in Fig. 3, E. coli cells 
coexpressing TorD from pLAC-TorD exhibited 
the strongest fluorescence, Fig.3a, followed by 
those coexpressing TorD from pSU-TorD, Fig. 
3b. The E. coli cells without the coexpression of 
TorD were barely visible under fluorescence 
microscope due to low translocation efficiency, 
Fig. 3c. A close up view at the cells coexpressing 
  
 
 6
TorD does not either stimulate GFP expression or 
inhibit SsrA-mediated proteolysis by itself, Fig. 1, 
the higher GFP concentration in cells 
coexpressing TorD can be solely attributed  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to the reduced proteolysis. Such hypothesis is 
also supported by the observation that the lysate 
of cells with TorD contains fewer low molecular 
weight GFP degradation products than that of the 
control. 
一、 參加會議經過 
此次美國微生物學會-歐洲微生物聯會的會議是在希臘克里特島的第
一大城：伊拉克利翁舉辦，從台灣出發經泰國曼谷、荷蘭阿姆斯特丹、希
臘雅典轉機最後抵達目的地約需 30小時左右的時間，是一段漫長且疲累
的行程。這是我第一次參加國際會議，雖然過程艱辛路途遙遠卻非常值
得，從此次的經歷學到了很多東西，不論在學術上或生活上，甚至在人與
人之間的交流相處方面都有更多的體認。 
與會人數約 190多人，聽說是 ASM舉辦過的研討會中人數最少的一
次，但是來參加的貴賓，大多是在蛋白質分泌系統領域中佼佼者，分別來
自不同國家，有英國、法國、美國、日本、德國、希臘、比利時等國，在
會議期間熱切地交流彼此的研究心得與成果，突破語言的限制與隔閡。也
因為此次會議認識了幾位國外的專家學者，實在是非常難得的經驗。以後
有機會我將積極參加類似的國際研討會，藉此培養豐富的國際觀與人脈，
促進國際合作與交流。 
 
二、 與會心得 
這次的會議內容歸納成三個類別：1. 細胞內的 SEC and TAT pathways, 
2.細胞中 Type Ⅱ、Ⅲ、Ⅳ的蛋白質分泌系統, 3.細胞膜內外的蛋白質輸送。
除了邀請各國的專家學者演說外，也舉辦相關論文的 POSTER張貼，彼此
互相觀摩學習。我們在此次的會議也投稿了一篇張貼論文，是近來在 TAT 
pathway領域的新發現：藉由 TorD這個 Chaperone可以增進 GFP的輸送效
率。 
在 SEC pathway的方面，對於結構與機制有多方面的探討，其中令人
感興趣的是 Sec protein translocase nanomachine及 Sec-transloase is able to 
unfold tightly folded protein domain..大致說明了SecA與SecY蛋白質之間的
也許將會少了許多研究生到國外培養國際觀的機會。 
 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議的論文摘要一本。內容是相關演說及 Poster的摘要，以及此次會
議所有參加人員的名單和聯絡資料。張貼文章內容如下： 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1. Bacterial strains, plasmids and growth conditions 
E. coli strain MC 4100 (F− araD139 _(argFlac) U169 flbB5301 deoC1 ptsF25 
relA1 rbsR22 rpsL150 thiA, courtesy of Dr. Georgiou of the University of Texas, 
USA) was used throughout this study (Casadaban, 1976). Plasmids pTG, pGS, and 
pTGS encoding ssTorA-GFP, GFP-SsrA, and ssTorA-GFP-SsrA fusions, respectively, 
summarized in Table 1, were also courtesy of Dr. Georgiou (DeLisa et al., 2002). 
Plasmid pSU-TorD harboring gene encoding TorD under the regulation of tat 
promoter was a gift from Dr. Sargent of the University of East Anglia, UK (Jack et al., 
2004). The gene torD encoding TorD was amplified from pSU-TorD by polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR) with oligoneucleotide primers 5_-CGCAGTTCTAGA 
AAGAAGGAGATATACATATGACCACGCTGACAGCACAAC-3_and 
5_-CGCTGAGAATTCTTATCTGTTTTGGTGGTCGC-3_, which contain restriction 
sites for XbaI and EcoRI (Roche, Germany), respectively. The amplified fragment 
were digested with XbaI and EcoRI and then reinserted into the XbaI–EcoRI-digested 
pSU-TorD vector with T4 DNA ligase (Invitrogen), generating the desired 
pLAC-TorD. Calcium chloride competent E. coli cells were used throughout this 
study for transformation (Cohen et al., 1972). For this study, fifteen transformants 
were prepared. Unless specified otherwise, all E. coli transformants were grown in 2× 
YT medium (Difco) at 37 ◦C. The expression of GFP fusions were induced by adding 
l-arabinose (Sigma) to a final concentration of 0.002% (w/v) when the optical density, 
measured at 550 nm, of the cell culture reached ca. 0.5. 
 
Table 1. 
E. coli strain and plasmids used in this study 
Strain or plasmids Relevant genotype and feature Source 
E. coli strain  
MC4100 F-araD139 _(argF-lac)U169 flbB5301 deoC1 ptsF25 relA1 rbsR22 rpsL150 thiA Casadaban (1976) 
Plasmids 
pBAD18Cm Arabinose regulation, pBR322 ori, Cmr Guzman et al. (1995) 
pGS Signal sequenceless GFP tagged with C-terminal SsrA tag in pBAD18Cm DeLisa et al. (2002) 
pTG TorA leader peptide fused to GFP in pBAD18Cm DeLisa et al. (2002) 
pTGS TorA leader peptide fused to SsrA-tagged GFP in pBAD18Cm DeLisa et al. (2002) 
pDmsA-GS DmsA leader peptide fused to SsrA-tagged GFP in pBAD18Cm DeLisa et al. (2002) 
pYfhG-GS YfhG leader peptide fused to SsrA-tagged GFP in pBAD18Cm DeLisa et al. (2002) 
pYedY-GS YedY leader peptide fused to SsrA-tagged GFP in pBAD18Cm DeLisa et al. (2002) 
pSU-TorD E. coli TorD with N-terminal tatA promoter in pSU40, pACYC184 ori, Kanr Jack et al. (2004) 
pLAC-TorD E. coli TorD under the own S.D. regulation in pSU40 This study 
 
 
then resuspended and incubated in 10% (v/v) para-formaldehyde at room temperature. 
After 20 min incubation the cells were then collected, washed twice with PBS, and 
subsequently resuspended homogeneously in 80% glycerol to an optical density, 
measured at 550 nm, of 1. These cells were then mounted onto the slides and 
examined with an excitation wavelength of 488 nm with a Zeiss LSM-150 
laser-scanning confocal microscope image system. The images were processed with 
Image-Pro Plus. 
 
 
3. Results and discussion 
 
3.1 Fluorescence analysis 
Time ( min )
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140
Fl
uo
re
sc
en
ce
 U
ni
t
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
The continuing decline of residual FI of the cell cultures upon 
resuspension in fresh medium, as shown in Fig. 1, is a  result of the 
proteolysis of cytoplasmic GFP. After 2 hr incubation in the fresh medium, the 
residual FI, attributed mainly to periplasmic GFP, of E. coli coexpressing TorD 
from pLAC-TorD and pSU-TorD were ca. 240 % and 30 % higher than that of 
the control, respectively, confirming the effect of TorD coexpression in 
enhancing the Tat-mediated translocation effciency of ssTorA:GFP:SsrA fusion. 
This observation is further supported by the results of fluorescence microscopy 
and Western blotting analysis, Fig.2 and 3. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Effect of TorD coexpression on the residual specific fluorescence intensity of E. 
Figure 3 Western blotting analysis of the (a) cytoplasmic and (b) periplasmic 
fractions of various E. coli transformants expressing GFP fusions. All E. coli strains 
were grown in 2X YT medium at 37 °C and the expression of GFP was induced by 
arabinose.  
 
As shown in Fig. 4, the crude lysate of cells coexpressing TorD contains higher 
concentration of intact GFP probably due to the reduced SsrA-independent 
proteolysis. Such hypothesis is also supported by the observation that the lysate 
of cells with TorD contains fewer low molecular weight GFP degradation 
products than that of the control. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 Time course analysis of E. coli cells expressing ssTorA:GFP fusion without and 
with TorD coexpression from pLAC-TorD. E. coli cells were grown in in 2X YT 
medium at 37 °C. Upon the induction of GFP expression, the total cellular GFP was 
monitored by Western blotting analysis for 4 hr. GFP fusions and the degradation 
products of GFP were indicated.  
 
3.3 Effect of TorD coexpression on other GFP fusion 
The coexpression of TorD on the translocation of GFP::SsrA fusions under 
the guidance of the signal peptide of other Tat substrate was investigated. As 
shown in Fig. 5, the co-expression of TorD with a wide range of Tat signal 
peptide::GFP fusions results in similar enhancements of Tat transport efficiency. 
TorD can enhance the secretion of GFP::SsrA fused to the signal peptide of 
DmsA, YedY, and  YfhG. The transolcation efficiency of GFP with YfhG is ca. 
4-fold higher than that for the control. 
