 2
makes a decision of which packet can be 
transmitted. For uplink traffics, the BS does 
not know how many packets there are in the 
sending queue for every mobile host at any 
time. It represents a big challenge to provide 
QoS in wireless networks. However, without 
considering uplink traffic, it is difficult to 
provide performance-guarantee services. 
There are several distributed mechanisms 
proposed by researchers for providing QoS 
in wireless networks [13][17][18][30][31] 
[32]. Most of above schemes do not have 
mechanisms to adapt to environment 
changes. In real situation, bandwidths, error 
rates, and loss rates of wireless links vary 
frequently. We try to cope with the 
bandwidth variations caused by the high 
error rate and bursty errors in wireless links, 
and the location-dependent and time-varying 
natures of wireless channel capacity. 
Furthermore, we expect to utilize the scarce 
wireless bandwidth more efficiently. In our 
proposed scheme, the higher priority flow is 
capable of broadcasting a message to inform 
the lower priority flows to change their 
priorities to adapt to environment variations. 
Based on the differentiated service 
model, we introduce a Wireless 
Differentiation (WD) scheme for UDP flows 
and a Wireless Differentiation with 
Prioritized ACK (WDPA) scheme for 
connections with TCP flows which provide 
QoS support for IEEE 802.11b. The 
proposed schemes do not change the basic 
access mechanism of IEEE 802.11b. Our 
WD scheme can react to changing wireless 
link conditions quickly and provide QoS to 
different classes of flows. 
This project is organized as follows. 
Section II introduces a couple of service 
differentiation mechanisms for IEEE 
802.11b. Section III describes the proposed 
MAC mechanism and analyzes the 
throughput in an ideal wireless environment. 
Section IV then presents the simulation 
results. Finally, section V provides our 
conclusions.  
 
II. Service Differentiation Mechanisms 
for IEEE 802.11b 
 
In order to provide QoS in a wireless 
network, the first step is to provide service 
differentiation. Service Differentiation 
mechanisms can be divided into two 
categories: centralized and distributed 
mechanisms. 
 
A. Centralized Mechanisms 
 
Basically, there is a controller in a 
centralized environment which is 
responsible for channel allocation, such as in 
Point Coordinate Function (PCF) 
coordinator or Wireless Rether Server [15].  
In IEEE 802.11b standard, PCF is a 
polling-based mechanism and provides a 
connection-oriented service. Before 
transmitting packets, the source station has 
to join the polling list in the PCF 
Coordinator (PC). The PC provides 
contention-free (CF) data transmission for 
every station in the polling table. It can 
provide bounded delays for real-time traffic. 
However, the protocol is more complex and 
has longer delays at low loads, because even 
in an idle system a station can not transmit 
data until it is polled by the PC. The PC 
schedules the polling time to each station in 
the polling list and performs admission 
z Backoff interval: After waiting for IFS, 
the host can not transmit frame 
immediately, but choose a backoff 
interval randomly and wait for the 
backoff timer counting down to 0. By 
the way of controlling backoff interval, 
higher-priority flows are assigned 
shorter random backoff timer than 
lower-priority flows. Hence, 
higher-priority flows can access the 
channel sooner than lower-priority 
flows. 
z Maximum frame length: After the 
contention period, once a 
higher-priority flow seizes the channel 
then it can transmit more data in this 
transmitting period than lower-priority 
flows. 
There are many proposed mechanisms to 
support service differentiation in wireless 
networks [17][18][19][30][31][32]. 
Basically they all are based on some or all of 
the three factors mentioned above to provide 
priority levels. In [13], Aad et al. discussed 
the effects of the three factors on TCP and 
UDP flows, and proposed new schemes 
based on these three factors, respectively. 
They found that using IFS and maximum 
frame length have better effects in providing 
priorities compared to using backoff interval. 
For TCP, there is no difference in bandwidth 
allocation among mobile stations using 
backoff interval. They also found that, in 
noisy channels, using IFS is better than 
using maximum frame length in supporting 
priorities to different classes. Hence, we also 
adopt varying IFS in our WD scheme for the 
same reason. 
In order to make service differentiation 
more efficient, Deng et al. considered two 
factors at once [18]. They focused on 
modifications to Inter-Frame Space (IFS) 
and backoff interval. In IEEE 802.11b, there 
are four kinds of IFS’s, Short IFS (SIFS), 
PCF IFS (PIFS) DCF IFS (DIFS) and 
Extended IFS (EIFS). The time interval 
from small to large is SIFS, PIFS, DIFS, and 
EIFS. To keep the method as simple as 
possible, and easy to implement, minimal 
modification is expected. Hence, a station 
with high priority flow uses the PIFS as its 
IFS time interval between the transmissions 
and a station with low priority flow uses the 
DIFS as its IFS time interval between the 
transmissions. For each IFS, the random 
backoff time is divided into two lengths. The 
original backoff function is Backoff_interval 
= ⎣22+i × rand()⎦ × Slot_Time. The backoff 
function is now changed to ⎣22+i/2× rand()⎦ 
× Slot_Time for high priority stations and 
(22+i/2+⎣22+i/2× rand()⎦ )× Slot_Time for 
low priority stations. It provides four 
priority classes as defined in Table 1 [18]. 
 
Table 1. Four priority classes. 
Priority IFS Backoff function 
0 DIFS (22+i/2+⎣22+i/2×rand()⎦)×Slot_Time 
1 DIFS ⎣22+i/2× rand()⎦ × Slot_Time 
2 PIFS (22+i/2+⎣22+i/2×rand()⎦)×Slot_Time 
3 PIFS ⎣22+i/2× rand()⎦ × Slot_Time 
Fig. 3. Mapping function. 
 4
 Fig. 4. IEEE 802.11e EDCF channel access 
mechanism. 
 
All mechanisms described above can 
provide service differentiation, but still have 
some drawbacks. Central mechanisms need 
additional control messages to maintain the 
QoS requirements of all flows which result 
in significant overheads. Some of distributed 
mechanisms do not take the characteristics 
of wireless link into account. Most of them 
do not have distributed adaptabilities to 
accommodate to the environment change, 
such as interference. Some compensation 
mechanism should be considered for higher 
priority flows. These observations lead to 
the development of our WD and WDPA 
schemes. We will examine these schemes in 
detail in next section. 
 
III. Wireless Differentiation (WD) 
Scheme and Wireless Differentiation 
Scheme with Prioritized ACK 
(WDPA) 
 
In the DiffServ architecture [5], the 
traffic has been divided into several classes. 
For differentiating packets, packets have to 
be tagged by different marks. In the current 
IPv4 header, there is a type-of-service byte 
for this purpose. The IETF has redefined the 
TOS byte as DS field to support the 
DiffServ model. The DS field is composed 
of a six-bit DSCP (Differentiated Service 
Code Point) field [8], and two remaining 
unused bits. Each service class, named PHB 
[10] in the DiffServ model, is encoded in the 
DSCP field. The boundary router is 
responsible for the traffic monitoring and 
policing. We apply the application-based 
model [27] in which the transmitted packets 
are tagged by the end system according to 
their QoS requirements. In our simulation, 
it’s the responsibility of mobile hosts to 
monitor the bandwidth utilization and to tag 
the transmitted packets with appropriate 
priority levels. 
In the IEEE802.11b standard, all 
stations have equal rights to access the 
channel. Even though the upper layer marks 
the packets appropriately, if the 802.11b 
MAC layer does not provide any service 
differentiation mechanism, then there will be 
no difference among different priority-level 
traffics. By enhancing the DCF, the 
emerging EDCF is designed to provide 
service differentiation using distributed 
channel accesses for packets with 8 different 
priorities. However, during the transmission 
the EDCF mechanism can not change 
AIFS[AC] to adapt to the environmental 
variations. Hence, we propose a Wireless 
Differentiation (WD) Scheme to support 
different QoS requirements. In the following 
paragraphs, we will explain the elements 
that have to be maintained in every node and 
the operational details in transmitting and 
receiving packets. 
 
Priority table 
 
Suppose that there are three traffic 
classes in the DiffServ Model which are 
premium, assured and best-effort services. 
Each node should maintain a priority table 
which keeps the information of each traffic 
 6
priority table to examine the status of higher 
priority flows. An assured flow has to check 
the premium flows’ record in its priority 
table, which is priority_table[0], before 
transmitting any data, and keeps monitoring 
its own bandwidth utilization at the mean 
time. Firstly, it has to check the TimeStamp 
field to see whether the information is 
expired or not. If it’s out of date, the 
Existence field will be reset to 0. Then, the 
Existence field will be examined. If the 
Existence field is equal to 0, it means there 
is no premium flow at this moment and the 
assured flow is the highest priority flow. 
Hence, the assured flow monitors its 
bandwidth utilization and sends a 
notification in the RTS if the receiving 
bandwidth is not satisfied. If the Existence 
field is equal to 1, then the Not_enough_bw 
field also has to be checked. If the 
Not_enough_bw field is also equal to 1, it 
means that there is at least one premium 
flow is transmitting data and it does not get 
enough bandwidth as required at this 
moment. Therefore, no matter what the 
monitored bandwidth is, the assured flow 
must decrease its priority level by 1 until the 
lower bound is reached and record the value 
into the AIFSN field. So, the premium flow 
has higher probabilities to access the 
channel. For the best effort flow which is 
lowest priority flow, it has to check both 
premium and assured flows’ information 
recorded in the priority table. Whenever 
there are flows, no matter premium or 
assured, asking for more bandwidth, the best 
effort flow has to decrease its priority. 
 
Estimation of Currently Obtained 
Bandwidth 
The component for the estimation of 
currently obtained bandwidth plays an 
essential role in our system. A node will 
send out bandwidth notification message 
once it detected that the acquired bandwidth 
is less than that it had subscribed to. We 
have a simple but effective approach for the 
estimation task. Each node conducts its 
estimation on a sample period basis. We 
assume that all packets of the same priority 
level have the same packet size, namely Pi, i 
= 1, 2, 3. We keep track the number of 
received ACK for flows of different priority 
level, denoted by Ni, i = 1, 2, 3, within a 
sample period T, then an estimation of the 
currently acquired bandwidth is evaluated 
according to: 
          
T
NP
B i
ii∑
=
⋅
=
3
1  
Such a simple estimation can serve to be a 
good indicator on how much bandwidth a 
node had obtained at the moment. 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Block diagram of the proposed scheme. 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. The relationship of CWmin and CWmax between 
priority levels. 
 8
 10
scheme is not efficient enough to 
differentiate TCP flows. The rate control 
mechanisms of TCP are divided into two 
phases, slow start and congestion avoidance. 
TCP source sends new data only when it 
receives an ACK from the destination in 
both phases. The flow control of TCP is 
dependent upon returned ACK packets. The 
ACKs of all TCP flows arrive at the AP 
waiting for transmissions. If the priority 
setting of ACK is ignored, all ACK’s will be 
sent in the same priority level (highest level 
by default). Hence, we propose a WD 
scheme with Prioritized ACK (WDPA) for 
TCP flows. When the receiver receives a 
packet, it will copy the value of DSCP field 
into the ACK’s header. The processing 
method of ACK packets is the same as 
DiffServ model. The AP contends for the 
channel access right with all mobile stations 
according to the setting of ACK’s header. 
Therefore, a higher priority TCP flow can 
receive ACK earlier, and results in smaller 
round trip time (RTT). The bandwidth that a 
TCP flow can have depends on its RTT. A 
TCP flow with a shorter RTT means that it 
can get more bandwidth than other TCP 
flows. In addition to setting shorter IFS to 
higher priority flow, WDPA returns higher 
priority flow’s ACK quickly and thus 
reduces the RTT of high priority flow. As a 
result, the service differentiation is more 
efficient. 
For further differentiation, different 
contention windows are also assigned to 
different priority classes. The higher the 
priority, the shorter the contention window 
is. In our simulation, we experiment two 
different priority levels settings, namely 
4-priority-level and 8-priority-level. In the 
4-priority-level environment, the CW values 
are CWimin=31+i*246, 0 ≦  i ≦  3, 
CWimax=CWi+1min-1, 0 ≦  i ≦  2, and 
CW3max=1023. In the 8 priority level 
environment, the CW values are 
CWimin=31+i*124 where 0 ≦  i ≦  7, 
CWimax=CWi+1min-1 where 0 ≦  i ≦  6, 
and CW7max=1023. Note that the suggested 
maximum CW is 1024 in the 802.11b 
standard and the ranges of contention 
windows for each priority level are simply 
divided evenly. The relation of (CWmin, 
CWmax) for different priority levels is given 
in Fig. 6. 
In order to resolve a hidden terminal 
problem, we propose a modified RTS/CTS 
mechanism. In a WLAN, when the AP 
receives a RTS message with a bandwidth 
notification, the AP also has to set a 
bandwidth notification in its CTS message. 
All of the lower priority nodes which 
receive these messages react as discussed 
before. The algorithm for priority adaptation 
is explained in detail as follows: 
For a premium flow, it takes the following 
procedure to send packets: 
 
1. Estimate the bandwidth it acquired. 
2. If the estimated bandwidth is lower 
than what it claims, set the 
bandwidth notification flag in RTS 
to notify others that it demands more 
bandwidth. 
3. Send packets 
For an assured flow, two situations are 
considered: 
1. When a RTS/CTS is received, it will 
check if the RTS/CTS is sent by a 
premium flow. 
If the received packet is a RTS/CTS, 
then it updates the priority table as 
follows: 
every station contends for the right to access 
the channel equally. Our first simulation 
reveals that DiffServ can not be achieved 
when running IEEE 802.11b DCF without 
any modification. Then we compare the 
performance of 802.11e EDCF and the 
proposed WD and WDPA in different 
scenarios. We simulate the proposed 
schemes (WD and WDPA) with two 
different priority-levels in ns2 [14]. WD/4 
(WDPA/4) and WD/8 (WDPA/8) denote 4 
and 8 priority-levels, respectively. 
We would like to examine if our WD 
schemes and WPDA schemes can provide 
service differentiation in the following 
simulation scenarios and compare them with 
the 802.11e EDCF. All sources are UDP 
traffics in the first simulation. In the second 
simulation, all TCP sources are simulated. 
Then, mixed traffics are considered. General 
speaking, premium service is like a virtual 
lease line which is used for applications 
s e n s i t i v e  t o  d e l a y  t i m e  s u c h  a s 
teleconferencing and video/audio streams. 
 
Fig. 7(a). Simulation Network Topology I. 
 
 
Fig. 7(b). Simulation Network Topology II. 
(n=3*m, where m>=1). 
 
Table 4. A description of three flows of UDP sources. 
These kinds of applications always send 
packets by UDP flows. Hence, in the third 
simulation, the premium traffic type is UDP, 
the others are TCP flows. In our simulation, 
a wireless environment with an average of 
10-6 bit error rate is assumed. The original 
802.11b scheme, the 802.11e EDCF and the 
proposed WD schemes and WDPA schemes 
are simulated. And the results of the 802.11e 
EDCF and our proposed schemes will be 
compared to see whether a better service 
differentiation can be achieved by the 
proposed schemes. In the last simulation, we 
increase the number of flows of each class 
one at a time, as shown in network topology 
II (Fig. 7(b)). We would like to examine if 
the service differentiation can be maintained 
as in topology I when the number of nodes 
increased. 
 
A. UDP Traffics 
 
Table 4 lists three flows. Flow 0 from 
S0 to R0 is a premium flow with 
transmission rate and subscription rate both 
equal to 3 Mbps. The flow begins 
transmission at 80 sec. Flow 1, whose 
service type is assured with transmission 
rate and subscription rate both equal to 4 
Mbps, is from S1 to R1. The flow begins 
transmission at 40 sec. And flow 2 is a 
background traffics whose service type is 
best effort with transmission rate equal to 5 
Mbps and begins transmission at 6 sec from 
S2 to R2. We use CBR/UDP as the traffic 
sources. In the following case, the total 
subscription rate is over the bandwidth 
limitation in IEEE 802.11b standard 
[28][29]. This is a simulation that the 
bandwidth is over-provisioning. 
 12
 
Fig. 10(a). Bandwidth sharing with WD/4 scheme 
(over-provisioning). 
 
Fig. 10(b). Bandwidth sharing with WD/8 scheme 
(over-provisioning). 
 
 
Fig. 11. The comparison of Bandwidth sharing of premium flows 
between WD schemes and 802.11e EDCF. 
 
 
Table 5. Under-provisioning scenario. 
 
We then simulate an 
under-provisioning case. The total amount 
of premium and assured traffics is 4.3 Mbps 
(300kbps+4Mbps) which is not over the 
bandwidth limitation. The simulated 
scenario is listed in Table 5. The best-effort 
traffic consumes the rest of the bandwidth. 
Fig. 12, Fig. 13 and Fig. 14 are the 
simulation results for original IEEE 802.11b, 
IEEE 802.11e EDCF and our WD schemes, 
respectively. In the case of 
under-provisioning, the premium traffic 
reserves 300kbps, no matter whether the 
MAC layer provides service differentiation 
or not. The premium traffic can get the 
bandwidth that it claims. As to the assured 
and best-effort traffics, they consume the 
rest of the bandwidth and share the 
bandwidth equally in the original 802.11b 
scheme. In the 802.11e EDCF and the 
proposed WD schemes, the assured traffic 
can get more bandwidth than the best-effort 
traffic. At 40 second, the assured flow starts 
to transmit data. Its subscribed rate is 4Mbps. 
At 80 second, the premium flow starts to 
transmit. The results of simulation are 
shown in Fig. 13 and Fig. 14. The 
bandwidth that the assured flow obtained 
does not meet its requirement. Hence, the 
assured flow send out a bandwidth 
notification to inform the best effort flow to 
reduce its priority level. The priority level of 
premium flow and assured flow are the same 
in this case, because the bandwidth 
requirement of premium flow is always 
satisfied. We can say that both WD/4 and 
WD/8 can achieve better service 
differentiation than 802.11e EDCF does. Fig. 
15 shows that the assured flow using new 
WD schemes can get more bandwidth than 
the one using 802.11e EDCF. Both WD/4 
and WD/8 performed better than 
 14
scenario. 
 As we can see in Fig. 16, the three flows 
share the bandwidth equally in original 
802.11b. When using 802.11e EDCF, we 
assign different priority to each flow. In Fig. 
17, it shows that the 802.11e EDCF does 
provide service differentiation. However, 
the difference is not substantial. This is 
because the flow control of the TCP depends 
on returned ACK packets. In 802.11e EDCF, 
it does not differentiate the ACKs for 
different flows. Hence, no matter what the 
flow’s priority is, the priority of all ACKs is 
the same, and the service differentiation is 
not obvious. When using our proposed 
WDPA schemes, we assign the priority of 
the ACK according to the priority of the 
received packet. Fig. 18 shows that the 
WPDA schemes have better service 
differentiation. The premium flow gets 
higher bandwidth than the other two. The 
detailed comparison of bandwidth sharing 
between WDPA schemes and 802.11e 
EDCF is shown in Fig. 19. When the 
premium flow starts, the WPDA schemes 
will measure the acquired bandwidth. If the 
acquired bandwidth is lower than the 
subscribed rate, the premium flow will 
inform other lower priority flows to reduce 
their priorities by sending out bandwidth 
notifications via RTS. Other lower priority 
flows will reduce their priorities. Hence, 
their IFSs, the idle time before transmission 
procedure, are increased. This means that 
the RTT of lower priority flows are longer 
than the premium flow. Hence, the premium 
flows can get more bandwidth. As 
mentioned above, the throughput of a TCP 
flow is influenced by its RTT. We also note 
that if we want to offer a better service 
differentiation, more priority levels will be 
needed. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 16. Bandwidth sharing of TCP traffics with legacy 802.11b. 
 
Fig. 17. Bandwidth sharing of TCP traffics with 802.11e EDCF. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 18(a). Bandwidth sharing of TCP traffics with WD/4 scheme 
with prioritized ACK (WDPA/4). 
 
 16
 Fig. 21. Bandwidth sharing of mixed traffics with 802.11e EDCF. 
 
 
Fig. 22(a). Bandwidth sharing of mixed traffics with WDPA/4 
scheme. 
 
 
Fig. 22(b). Bandwidth sharing of mixed traffics with WDPA/8 
scheme. 
 
 
 
Fig. 23. The comparison of Bandwidth sharing of assured flow 
between WDPA schemes and 802.11e EDCF. 
 
D. Impact of number of flows 
 
From the above simulation, we know 
that the proposed schemes can perform well 
when there is only one flow for each traffic 
type. In the last simulation, we would like to 
examine if the proposed schemes can still 
provide better service differentiation in 
cases of multiple flows. In this simulation, 
three different traffic types are considered, 
namely voice, video, and data. Voice and 
video traffics are assumed to be of constant 
bit rate (CBR). Typically, voice and video 
traffic types are delay-sensitive, but are 
tolerant of some packet losses. On the other 
hand, data traffic type is not delay-sensitive. 
Therefore, the priorities of voice, video, and 
data traffic types are assigned as premium, 
assured and best-effort, respectively. Our 
focus is on the premium and assured traffic 
types. Therefore, for simplicity, the 
background data traffic is also assumed to 
be of constant bit rate (CBR). Table 8 shows 
the traffic types and their characteristics that 
we used for our simulation. We use the 
network topology shown in Fig. 7(b), which 
consists of n stations indexed from 1 to n, 
where n is a multiple of 3. The senders are 
divided equally into three groups which 
send voice, video, and data, respectively. In 
each simulation, we add three more flows, 
one for premium traffic type, one for assured 
traffic type, and the other for best-effort 
traffic type. All flows start to transmit at the 
beginning of simulation. The meaning of 
x-axis in following figures is the number of 
flows for each traffic type, i.e. in our 
simulation the number of flows is from 3 to 
48. 
 18
 20
collision without AP’s assistance. The 
proposed WD schemes will maintain a 
priority table for each traffic type. When 
receiving RTS/CTS messages from higher 
priority flows, the information kept in the 
priority table has to be updated accordingly. 
Before transmission, the WD schemes will 
look up the priority table and assign an 
appropriate Inter Frame Space (IFS). During 
transmission the MAC traffic controller will 
estimate the bandwidth usage for higher 
priority flows (premium or assured). Once 
the estimated bandwidth is less than the 
subscribed bandwidth, a bandwidth 
notification piggybacked with a RTS/CTS 
will inform other lower priority flows to 
reduce their priorities. This will greatly 
improves the adaptability of the 
transmission control. For TCP flows, the 
proposed WDPA schemes take ACK into 
account. The priorities of ACKs will be 
assigned according to the received packets. 
It offers better service differentiation to TCP 
flows. 
In recent years, the amount of wireless 
traffic has grown exponentially. A wireless 
link may be considered just another hop in 
the transmission path. In order to provide 
QoS in communication, not only the wired 
paths but also the wireless links have to 
support QoS mechanisms. Many researchers 
have worked on these issues, and there are 
still a lot of difficulties that have to be 
conquered. In this project we present 
possible solutions to QoS administration for 
the 802.11b standard. We proposed a 
modified 802.11b MAC mechanism to 
provide service differentiation. We simulate 
our scheme on a DiffServ model with 
combined wired and wireless environment 
in order to evaluate the performance of the 
WD and WDPA schemes with 4 and 8 
priority levels. The simulation result shows 
that the WD and WDPA schemes can 
effectively achieve better service 
differentiation in fulfilling the bandwidth 
requirement of flows of highest priority. 
There is no need for additional control 
messages, and no need for central controller 
to coordinate the operation. All these 
simplicities make our schemes prevail in 
implementation and deployment. 
 
References 
[1] K. Nichols, V. Jacobson, and L. Zhang, 
“A two-bit Differentiated Services 
Architecture for the Internet,” Internet draft, 
draft-nichols-diff-svc-arch-00.txt, Nov. 
1997. 
[2] Y. Bernet, R. Yavatkar, and P. Ford, “A 
Framework for use of RSVP with Diff-Serv 
Networks,” Internet draft, 
draft-ietf-diffserv-rsvp-00.txt, June 1998. 
[3] J. Heinanen, F. Baker, W. Weiss, and J. 
Wroclawski, “Assured Forwarding PHB 
Group,” Internet draft, 
draft-ietf-diffserv-af-03.txt, Nov. 1998. 
[4] R. Braden, D. Clark, and S. Shenker, 
“Integrated Services in the Internet 
Architecture: an Overview,” Internet RFC 
1633, June 1994. 
[5] Black, and S. Etal, “An Architecture for 
Differentiated Services,” Internet RFC 2475, 
Dec. 1998. 
[6] S. Shenker, C. Partridge, and R. Guerin, 
“Specification of Guaranteed Quality of 
Service,” Internet RFC 2212, Sep. 1997. 
[7] J. Wroclawski, “Specification of the 
Controlled-Load Network Element Service,” 
Internet RFC 2211, Sep. 1997. 
