 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究研究結案報告 
近場光學顯微鏡奈米級模擬量測模型之建立及逆解光纖探針外形尺寸方法之研究(2/2) 
Research on the Establishment of Nano-Scale Simulated Measurement Model of Near Field Scanning 
Optical Microscope and the Inverse of Appearance and Size of Optical Probe(2/2) 
研究編號：NSC-95-2221-E-011-100- 
執行期間：95 年 08 月 01 日至 96 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：林榮慶  教授     國立台灣科技大學機械工程系 
 
一、摘要 
由研究第一年所得之結果可知，近場光
學進行奈米級量測時，光纖探針口徑及凸起
端尺寸大小、鍍鋁層厚度及斜角對於量測之
影響極大，而目前近場光學顯微鏡進行奈米
級量測之探討困難度極高，且光纖探針幾何
尺寸不易掌握，現階段若要確認光纖探針口
徑及凸起端尺寸大小、鍍鋁層厚度及斜角，
大多使用 SEM 等破壞性方式進行驗證，導致
光纖探針被破壞而無法繼續使用。為解決預
測光纖探針外形尺寸大小之技術瓶頸，本研
究第二年結合 SNOM 奈米級量測實驗及
SNOM 奈米級模擬量測模型，提出非破壞方
法之逆解出光纖探針幾何尺寸。依據第一年
模擬量測所得之結果，逆解出第一隻光纖探
針之幾何尺寸參數，並與實驗結果比較，確
認本文所提之逆解方法為可行的。並進行第
二隻光纖探針 SNOM 奈米級量測實驗，且運
用數值最佳化 Levenberg-Marquardt Method
配合SNOM奈米級模擬量測模型所模擬的結 
果，逆解出光纖探針口徑，並可計算光纖探
針凸起端尺寸大小、鍍鋁層厚度及斜角。最
後比較 SEM 拍攝與 SNOM 實驗所得之實驗
結果與逆解所得之結果的誤差，確認本研究
所提出之非破壞方式逆解光纖探針外形尺寸
模型為合理的。 
關鍵字：近場光學、光纖探針、量測模型、
非破壞方法、逆解 
 
Abstract 
As known from the results of the study 
made in the first year, while making nano-scale 
measurement by the scanning near-field optical 
microscope (SNOM), the size of the aperture 
and protruding end of the optical fiber tip, as 
well as the thickness and bevel angle of the 
aluminum coating have extremely great 
influence on the measurement.  Currently, it is 
highly difficult to conduct investigation of the 
nano-scale measurement by SNOM.  Besides, 
the geometric size of optical fiber tip cannot be 
easily known.  Therefore, at the present stage, 
if it is required to confirm the size of the 
aperture and protruding end of the optical fiber 
tip, as well as the thickness and bevel angle of 
the aluminum coating, such destructive way of 
SEM was adopted for verification, disabling the 
continuous use of the optical fiber tip due to its 
being destructed.  To solve the technical 
bottleneck in the prediction of the shape and 
size of the optical fiber tip, the study made in 
the second year integrated the SNOM 
nano-scale measuring experiment with the 
SNOM nano-scale simulative measuring model, 
to propose a nondestructive inverse solution of 
the geometric size of optical fiber tip.  
According to the results acquired from the 
simulative measurement made in the first year, 
the parameter of the geometric size of the first 
optical fiber tip was inversely solved.  After 
comparing it with the experimental result, it is 
confirmed that the inverse method proposed by 
this paper is workable.  In the SNOM 
nano-scale measuring experiment of the second 
optical fiber tip, the numerically optimized 
Levenberg-Marquardt Method is matched with 
the simulative result of the SNOM nano-scale 
simulative measuring model to obtain the 
inverse solution of the aperture of the optical 
fiber tip, and calculate the size of the 
protruding end of the optical fiber tip, as well 
as the thickness and bevel angle of the 
aluminum coating.  Finally, the SEM 
photograph is compared with the error between 
the experimental result acquired from the 
SNOM experiment and the result of inverse 
solution.  Then, it is confirmed reasonable to 
use the nondestructive inverse method 
proposed by the study to acquire the shape and 
 4
數（Λ），即為 Marquardt parameter，可得到
Levenberg-Marquardt Method 的最佳步進為
[9]： 
rJIJJ TT 1)( −Λ+−=δ         (3)                                                   
其中 
I：單位矩陣 
J：為 Jacobian Matrix，以矩陣方式表示如下，
在此 )( pri 為系統之殘值： 
    
1
1
)(
)(
×
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎢
⎣
⎡
∂
∂
∂
∂
=
m
m
p
pr
p
pr
J M                   (4) 
    miHHpr iNiMi ,1)()()( =−=     (5) 
    亦即 
    
1
1
)(
)(
×⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢
⎣
⎡
=
mm
pr
pr
r M                     (6) 
本研究使用 Levenberg-Marquardt Method 的
最佳步進方法為最佳化之搜尋法則，來進行
逆解光纖探針之口徑。同時利用 SNOM 奈米
級量測實驗所得外形與SNOM奈米級模擬量
測外形的誤差平方值之 1/2 來作為目標函數
值，進而逆解光纖探針口徑，然後再計算凸
起端尺寸大小及鍍鋁層厚度，而實驗量測奈
米級階梯形標準試片，所量測得到的表面形
貌之邊緣的斜角為逆解所用的斜角值。本研 
究之目標函數 )(* pE 則運用 Tikhonov’s 
Method 的概念並加入一修正項如下所示[9]： 
( ) )())((
2
1)(
1
2* pHHpE
m
i
iNiM ψ+−= ∑
=
 (7)                                                    
其中 
)(pψ 稱為 inverse barrier functions，由 Carroll
提出： 
)(0001.0
)(
)( pE
pc
p ×== φψ          (8)                                                     
在此， )(pc 為限制函數，本研究之限制函數
為 S >0；φ 為一個權重值（penalty function 
weighted），藉由在搜尋最佳參數值的過程
中，作為一個可調整的因子，以利於最佳化
搜尋過程。 
所以在輸入一個初始參數後，由公式(9)
即可得到每一次疊代修正之參數增量 kδ 如下
所示[9]： ( )kkkTkkkTkk HJJgrJ +Λ++−= /)(δ      (9) 
其中 
k：為疊代次數 
T：為轉置矩陣代號 
kΛ ：為 Marquardt parameter 
2cdp
dgk
φψ =−=                     (10) 
32
2 2
cpd
dHk
φψ ==                     (11) 
由公式(9)所得到之參數增量，加上初始的參
數值，來得到下一次疊代的修正參數的數
值，如公式(12)所示： 
kkk pp δ+=+1                       (12) 
又參照 Schnur[9]的收斂準，本研究的收斂準
則為 45 10)10/( −− <+ kk pδ ，並透過上述之
Levenberg-Marquardt Method 來逆解出光纖
探針口徑。 
又本研究在建立SNOM奈米級模擬量測
模型之原子模型方面，依據真實鍍鋁之矽材
質之 SNOM 光纖探針之幾何外形參數：光纖
探針口徑 S 及凸起端尺寸大小 h、鍍鋁層厚
度 t及斜角 θ，配合 SEM 實驗與透過相互間
之幾何關係如圖 1 所示，找出真實鍍鋁之矽
材質之SNOM光纖探針之幾何外形參數間之
相互關係式。如公式(13)、(14)所示分別為口
徑 S與探針尖端 Si 凸起高度 h及 probe 外形
圓角半徑 R 之關係式；公式(15)所示為鍍 Al
層厚度 t、口徑 S、斜角 θ 與 probe 外形圓角
半徑 R之關係式。 
222 hRhS −=                      (13) 
2
42 22 SRRh −−=                  (14)         
θθ costan
2
44)
2
(
2222
⎥⎥⎦
⎤
⎢⎢⎣
⎡
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −−−−−= LRSRSLt
           (15)            
 6
式(15)得到 iL 。 
Step5：依據上述逆解所得之光纖探針口徑 iS
及計算所得凸起高度 ih 與鍍鋁層厚度 it ，與
實驗所得之探針口徑和量測之值相比較，確
認本研究為合理的。 
 
四、結果與討論 
本研究結合 SNOM 奈米級量測實驗及
SNOM 奈米級模擬量測模型，依據第一年模
擬量測所得之結果，逆解出第一隻光纖探針
之幾何尺寸參數，來建出光纖探針原子模型
如圖 2 所示，其截斷半徑 cr 為 1.2624nm，口
徑為 S=78.4nm。探針尖端凸起高度的大小約
是一層 Si 原子所構成的高度 h=0.439nm、共 
468 顆原子，斜角為 8.50，鍍鋁層厚度 t為 
100.6nm。而依據第一隻光纖探針逆解所得之
光纖幾何尺寸模擬所得之結果與進行 SNOM
實驗所得之結果比較如圖 3、圖 4、圖 5 與圖
6 所示。第一隻光纖探針實驗量測之光纖探
針口徑為 80nm，其與逆解所得之光纖探針口
徑 78.4nm 差距值約為 1.6nm。而實驗的各區
量測值與逆解模擬所得之量測值比較，其之
間的平均誤差為 0.28nm，且實驗量測所得的
鍍鋁層厚度為 100nm 與逆解後所的鍍鋁層厚
度相差約 0.6nm，其差異皆不大，因此可確
認本文所提之逆解光纖探針幾何尺寸之方法
是可行的。而最後為證明本研究所提之逆解
光纖探針幾何尺寸之方法具有可應用到其他
探針的合理性，本研究進行第二隻光纖探針
之SNOM奈米級階梯形標準試片量測實驗其
結果如圖 7 所示。並逆解出光纖探針的幾何
尺寸，其探針口徑為 S=80.6nm。探針尖端凸
起高度的大小為 h=0.451nm 其約可視為一層
Si 原子所構成、共 492 顆原子，探針斜角為
8.510，鍍鋁層厚度為 t 為 100.9nm。並比較
SEM 拍攝的第二隻光纖探針外形如圖 8，與
SNOM 實驗所得之量測實驗結果與逆解所得
之模擬結果如圖 9、圖 10、圖 11 與圖 12 所
示。實驗量測之光纖探針口徑為 82nm，其與
逆解所得之光纖探針口徑 80.6nm 差距值約
為 1.4nm。而實驗的各區量測值與逆解模擬
之量測值比較，其之間的平均誤差為 0.32nm 
，且實驗量測所得的鍍鋁層厚度為 101.4nm
與逆解後所的鍍鋁層厚度相差約 0.4nm，其
上述之差異均不大，故可確認本研究所提出
之非破壞方式逆解光纖探針外形尺寸模型為
合理的。 
 
圖 1 探針之幾何尺寸關係圖 
 
圖 2 逆解後所得之原子模型 
 
3 4 5
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
階梯形奈米及標準試片
第3區
第2區
第1區
Z(
nm
)
X(um)
 實驗80nm
 逆解78.4nm
 
圖 3 第一隻光纖探針逆解後所得 SNOM 模擬
與實驗量測之結果 
 8
3
40
45
50
55
Z(
nm
)
X(um)
 實驗82nm
 逆解80.6nm
圖 10 第二隻光纖探針逆解後所得 SNOM 模
擬與實驗量測之結果(第 1 區) 
3.7 3.8 3.9 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
Z(
nm
)
X(um)
 實驗82nm
 逆解80.6nm
圖 11 第二隻光纖探針逆解後所得 SNOM 模
擬與實驗量測之結果(第 2 區) 
4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.0 5.1
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
Z(
nm
)
X(um)
實驗82nm
逆解80.6nm
圖 12 第二隻光纖探針逆解後所得 SNOM 模
擬與實驗量測之結果(第 3 區) 
 
五、結論 
 本研究所建立結合二體勢能函數及光纖
探針振動理論之 SNOM 奈米級模擬量測模
型，可分析探討光纖探針不同外形尺寸對
SNOM 奈米級量測之影響，在 SNOM 奈米級
量測具有突破性的重大貢獻。同時透過建立
逆解光纖探針外形尺寸之目標函數值，再結
合數值最佳化 Levenberg-Marquardt Method
最佳化搜尋及合理的收斂準則，可逆解出逆
解光纖探針口徑，並可計算出光纖探針凸起
端尺寸大小，鍍鋁層厚度及斜角。最後比較
SEM 拍攝光纖探針尺寸與 SNOM 實驗量測
奈米級階梯標準試片所得之結果與逆解所得
探針口徑與模擬量測值之結果相比較，其誤
差均不大，故可確認本研究所提出之非破壞
方式逆解光纖探針外形尺寸模型為合理的。
本研究一方面可改善目前光纖探針需破壞才
可得到其幾何尺寸大小之瓶頸。更可作為後
續 SNOM 奈米級量測誤差補償技術之基礎。 
 
六、文獻 
1. Tikhonov, A. N. and V. Y. Arsenin, Solution 
of Ill-posed Problems, V. H. Winston and 
Sons, Washington, D.C. (1977). 
2. Lin, Jiin-Hong, Cha’o-Kuang Chen and 
Yue-Tzu Yang, “Inverse Estimation of the 
Thermal Boundary Behavior of a Heated 
Cylinder Normal to a Laminar Air Stream,” 
International Journal of Heat and Mass 
Transfer, Vol. 43, pp.3991-4001 (2000). 
3. Chen, Cha’o-Kuang, Jiin-Hong Lin and 
Yue-Tzu Yang, “Inverse Method for 
Estimation Thermal Conductivity in One 
Dimensional Heat Conduction Problem,” 
Journal of Thermophysics and Heat 
 10
與實驗量測第一隻光纖探針尺寸相比較，證
明本研究之逆解模式為合理的。 
(5)完成第二隻光纖探針SEM 拍攝工作，確
認光纖探針口徑及凸起端尺寸大小、鍍鋁
層厚度及斜角。 
(6)確認逆解第二隻光纖探針外形尺寸為合理
的，故可證明本研究之逆解模式可重覆應
用於計算其他光纖探針的尺寸。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1
赴國外研究心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95－2221－E－011－100－ 
計畫名稱 近場光學顯微鏡奈米級模擬量測模型之建立及逆解光纖探針外形尺寸方法之研究(2/2) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
姓    名：林榮慶 
服務機關：國立台灣科技大學 
職    稱：教授 
出國時間地點 
時      間：2006 年 12 月 4 日到 6 日 
地      點：新加坡 
會議名稱 7th Asia Pacific Conference on Materials Processing 亞太國際研討會 
發表論文題目 3D Nano-scale Cutting Model for Nickel Material 
 
工作記要： 
一、參加會議經過 
（1）7th Asia Pacific Conference on Materials Processing 亞太國際研討會，簡稱為 7th APCMP 2006，
其研討會日期為 2006 年 12 月 4 日到 6 日，在新加坡大學舉行，12 月 4 日上午 9 點起開始舉行
開幕儀式及專題演講。同時於上午 11 點起開始舉行各場次研討會。此次會議我被推舉為 11 點
到 12 點 20 分研討會議主持人（Chair），並做一場 Session Keynote 的演講，題目為” 3D Nano-scale 
Cutting Model for NickelMaterial”，其他時間則旁聽其他專家學者的報告。 
     （2）在第一天下午 3 點多新加坡大學的教授安排參觀新加坡大學機械系設備及研究方向。 
     （3）此次研討會約有一百多篇論文發表，參加的人有歐洲、美國、日本、韓國、台灣及大陸等學 
者。12 月 4 日及 5 日為研討會報告，12 月 6 日大會安埋參觀位於南洋大學的 SIM Tech 實驗
室（由新加坡政府補助）設備及研發成果，進ㄧ步了解新加坡目前的硏發方向。 
二、與會心得與建議 
此次研討會除了了解目前國際上有關材料加工製程方面的教新研究趨勢外，及由大會所安排的參觀
SIM Tech 實驗室設備及研發成果，整體而言新加坡的發展趨勢和國內大同小異，主要為微型加工及生
醫工程等，但與國內相比新加坡仍較弱，可是由於新加坡小且只有兩間主要大學，因此資源集中使用良
好。 
 
三、建議 
     
每年均需派員參加並補助經費。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
本次研討會攜回大會所發的研討會論文集光碟ㄧ片以及論文摘要集一本。 
 2
the follow-up processing and applicability, it is extremely 
necessary to be developed an analyzable and calculable 
residual strain and residual stress model of machined surface.  
This paper proposes a method that combines molecular 
dynamics with finite element deformation model (MDFM) to 
calculate the various axial stress and strain of single crystal 
nickel that occur during nano-scale cutting by conical tool. This 
paper also employs rigid boundary layer interface force (RIF) 
model developed by Lin and Huang [8] to calculate the cutting 
force of single crystal nickel during nano cutting. 
 
2.  Molecular dynamic simulation of nano-cutting 
 
2.1 Nano-cutting simulation model 
In this study, a workpiece and a tool are assumed to 
consist respectively of single crystal nickel and rigid diamond, 
as shown in Figure 1 and Table 1. To simulate the nano-scale 
cutting of the (001) plane of  nickel, we utilize a  nickel slab 
of dimensions 25a × 25a × 11a, consisting of 27500 atoms 
(Figure 1), where a is the lattice constant of nickel (3.52 Å)[4]. 
The work material in the MD simulation is divided into three 
different zones, namely the free motion zone,temperature 
controlled layer and the fixed boundary layer [7]. 
 
 
Fig. 1. MD simulation model. 
 
The boundary conditions of nano-scale cutting simulation 
included the three layers of atoms in the y-z faces (left side of 
the work material) and the lower x-y plane (bottom of the work 
material) being kept fixed [7]. All other atoms are allowed to 
move with the MD algorithm. 
A layer of atoms at the free motion zone and close to the 
fixed boundary layer are considered as thermostat atoms. In 
another word, the layer of atoms at the free motion zone and 
close to the fixed boundary layer is considered as a temperature 
controlled layer. The temperature controlled layer was used to 
absorb the heat towards primary cells. 
 
Table 1 Computational parameters used in the MD simulation  
Configuration Nano cutting 
 nickel (Work material ) 25a×26a×10a, atoms: 27311 
Tool (rigid body diamond)  Tip radius: 5nm total tool atoms:15400 
Depth of cut 0.55nm 
Cutting speed 200 m/sec 
Bulk temperature 293 K 
 
In typical metal machining conditions, a nickel surface is 
machined by a considerably harder tool or abrasive element. 
The hardness of diamond is 10, whereas nickel is considerably 
softer (hardness < 5 ) depending on the surface preparation [9]. 
Under such conditions it is a good approximation to consider 
the tool as a rigid body. We adopt this convention in these 
simulations. 
When using MD to simulate the tool having a radius of 
cutting edge to undergo nano-scale cutting, the deeper the 
cutting depth, the larger the size of the workpiece would 
become.  In other words, when there are lots of atoms in a 
workpiece, the volume of calculation would relatively be 
massive in times of simulation.  When Zhang and Tanaka [3] 
used MD to undergo nano-scale cutting simulation, they found 
that when the proportion of cutting depth versus the radius of 
the tip is larger or equal to 0.09, then the condition of 
nano-scale cutting is equivalent to the cutting regime.  The 
radius of cutting edge in this paper is 5 nm, and hence, the 
cutting depth is larger or equal to 0.45 nm (i.e., the cutting 
regime) only.  The simulated cutting depth in this paper is 
0.55 nm.  Such a cutting depth can be used to investigate the 
cutting regime, whereas its time of calculation is also 
affordable. 
 
2.2 MD simulation  
In this study, the face center cubic structure of  single 
crystal nickel is established as the experimental samples. The 
Gear’s predictor-corrector method is adopted to calculate the 
positions, velocities and accelerations of particles under 
displacement condition. The both Verlet’s neighbor lists [10] 
and truncated radius method [10] are employed to reduce 
plenty of calculative quantities. 
The MD simulation procedure in this study is based on the 
references [10,11]. Initially, the atoms of the specimen are 
positioned at the fcc lattice sites, then relaxed to the 
equilibrium position after the nano-scale cutting was applied. 
The MD simulations were carried out in the specimen of the  
nickel. Therefore, in this study, the MD simulation comprises 
two phases: initial relaxation and machining. In the first phase, 
atoms were positioned according to an assumed 
face-centred-cubic (fcc) crystal structure and their velocities 
were randomized to satisfy the Maxwell-Boltzmann 
distribution at prescribed temperature [10,11]. For the 
simulation results presented below, the relaxation phase was 
completed within 20000 time steps by controlling the bulk 
temperature at a 293K using an NVT ensemble [10,11]. In the 
second phase, nano-scale cutting was simulated by displacing 
the diamonod  tool with small distance (interval) toward the 
negative direction of X-axis in each time step, and followed by 
relaxation for 500 MD steps (cutting). Further details of MD 
simulation procedure are given in [10,11]. 
In this paper, the Morse potential model function, which is 
still widely used, is also adopted for the calculation process. It 
is 
 ( ) ( ){ }00 2)( 2 rrrrij ijij eeDr −−−− −⋅= ααφ                 (1)               
 
where φ(rij ) is a pair potential energy function, D is the 
cohesion energy,αis the elastic modulus and r0 is the particle 
distance at equilibrium. The  shape of the potential function s 
and their related parameters are shown in Table 2. 
 
Table 2  Parameters of Morse potentials [4] 
Parameter Ni- Ni Ni -C 
D(eV) 0.4205 0.100 
α (1010m-1) 1.4199 2.200 
r0(10-10m) 2.78 2.40 
 
To ensure reasonable heat conduction outwards the control 
volume (primary cell), a temperature-controlled layer was used 
to absorb the heat towards primary cells. At nano-scale cutting 
simulation, when temperature of the temperature absorption 
layer is higher than the preset one of 293K, velocity rescaling 
method as shown in Equation (2) [10] will be used to control 
the temperature of the temperature controlled layer and absorb 
the heat towards primary cells (control volume).  Converting 
the average kinetic energy into a temperature as shown in 
Equation (3) [10] does conversion of temperature for 
thermostat atoms.  Successful application of Equation (3) can 
be found in prior works such as Lin and Huang [7,8]. 
 4
stress-strain curve of a nano-scale nickel thin film tension test 
simulation by Chen [15] as a base. The stress-strain curve will 
be regressed and converted into a flow stress-strain relationship 
equation. The unit of the flow curve is GPa (N/mm2).  
 
σ = 58.33655 ε0.99247                           (11)                                                             
 
3.4 The Young’s modulus of single crystal nickel 
In times of elastic and plastic deformation of nickel 
material, its Young’s modulus is a important parameters.  Thus, 
it is very important to choose the suitable Young’s modulus 
during simulation. 
Since the Young’s modulus of the nano-scale single crystal 
nickel material is different from  macroscopic scale. Therefore, 
the Young’s modulus of the single crystal nickel material used 
in the MDFM model was obtained through a nanoindentation 
test under very low indentation loading. 
The single crystal nickel used in this paper is produced by 
MaTeck Company of Germany.  Its orientation accuracy is < 
0.1° and its surface roughness is 0.302nm (Ra). Its surface 
topography is shown in Figure 3. 
 
 
Fig. 3.  The surface topography of Ni single crystal 
 
This paper uses TriboScope equipment produced by 
Hysitron Inc. to undergo very low indentation loading 
experiment on the (001) surface of single crystal nickel by 
means of Berkovich’s Indenter. As shown in Figure 4, the total 
included angle on this tip is 142.3°, with a half angle of 65.35°.  
This tip geometry has been used as the standard for 
nanoindentation [16]. 
 
Fig. 4. SEM photo of Berkovich’s Indenter 
 
The load used in this paper ranges from 75μN, 100μN, 
125μN to 150μN.  Every loading is indented for six times to 
ask for its average value, so as to avoid experimental error.  
Figure 5 shows the depth and loading of indentation experiment 
and Figure 6 shows the surface topography after indentation. 
 
   
 (a) 75μN 
  
    (b) 150μN 
 
(c) 200μN 
Fig. 5. Depth and force curve of the indentation experiment 
 
       
(a)75μN                                 (b)100μN 
 
 
 
   
(c) 150μN    
        
(d)  200μN 
  
(e) 250μN 
Fig. 6.  Surface topography of single crystal Ni after 
indentation 
From Figure 5, it can be seen that the machine used in this 
paper can still work steadily under the indentation experiment 
having an extremely low loading.  Also from Figure 6, the 
topography of the indentation would enlarge along with the 
increase of the loading of the indenter.  Therefore, the Er 
obtained in this experiment is very reliable.  Figure 7 shows 
the relation between the indentation depth and Er after 
experiment, and the average value of Er acquired in this paper 
is 219.89 GPa.  The Er value is further converted into Young’s 
modulus through the following equation[16], and the value is 
 6
 
Fig.11. The simulation of cutting at the 12000th step 
 
 
Fig. 12. The simulation of cutting at the 16000th step 
 
 
Fig. 13. The simulation of cutting at the 18000th step 
 
From these figures, it can be seen that with the rigid body 
diamond tool having a gradually cuts into the single nickel 
crystal, the atoms of the single crystal nickel starts to pack, 
forming the chip, whereas packing phenomenon of the chip 
occurs in front of the tool and at two sides of the cutting 
direction.  The qualitative analysis of such phenomenon is 
relatively consistent with the surface topography of the 
practical single crystal nickel nano-scale cutting experiment as 
shown Figure 8.  This shows that the simulated model 
developed in this paper is very reasonable. 
Figure 10 shows that along with the increase of the 
process of the cutting tool, a larger displacement occurs on the 
atoms of the surface layer.  It is clearly seen now that slipping 
occurs on the surface nickel atom on the direction of <110>, 
and this phenomenon is more obvious in Figure 11 to Figure 13. 
This phenomenon occurs because the larger the cutting travel 
distance during the cutting process, the more the quantities of 
the nickel atoms that are pushed by the concial shaped tool, so 
that the slip phenomenon of the surface atom is more apparent 
on the <001> surface. 
Along with the concial shaped tool gradually cutting into 
the work piece as shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13, packing 
phenomenon of the chips occurs more obviously at the front 
portion of  the tool, and also, the larger the deformation 
section at the back of the chip packing area would become.  
The three-axis working force during nano-scale cutting is 
shown in Figure 14. Here, it is found that although the force in 
the direction Y keeps changing, its average value is close to 
zero.  It is because the tip of the tool used in the MD 
simulated nano-scale cutting of this paper has a round-corned 
tool, and its cutting path is a straight line.  Therefore the 
contact area of two sides during the machining is the same, and 
the composite force of the working force of the two tips is zero.  
 
 
Fig. 14. The force of the three axis during nano-scale cutting 
 
Also shown in Figure 14 is that, the cutting force at the 
direction X and Z are both negative values during the initial 
cutting stage. This is because the tool keeps a small distance 
from the work piece at the beginning, and a mutual attractive 
force occurs between tool and workpiece, contributing to a 
negative value. And when the tool cuts into the work piece, 
repulsive force occurs between them, contributing to a positive 
value. At the same time, it is found that the absolute value of 
cuting force of the Z direction is larger than the absolute value 
of the working force of the X direction.  This is because when 
the conical shaped tool cuts into the work piece, the area of the 
contact projection of the Z direction is larger than the area of 
the contact projection of the X direction. Therefore, during the 
initial cutting stage, the attractive force (negative value) of the 
Z direction is larger than the magnetic force (negative value) of 
the X direction.  And along with the tool gradually cuts into 
the work piece, repulsive force occurs between the tool and the 
work piece.  And since the area of the contact projection of 
the Z direction is larger than the area of the contact projection 
of the X direction, so the repulsive force is also larger.  
Therefore the increase rate of the cutting force of the Z 
direction is found to be larger than that of the X direction. 
5.3  Stress and Strain Analysis 
This paper uses the method of combining MD with finite 
element deformation model proposed in Section 3.1 and 
Section 3.2 to calculated the stress and strain caused by the 
single nickel crystal work piece at all directions during the 
nano-sacle cutting. 
In order to understand the stress and strain distribution 
trend of all axial direction inside the internal of nickel work 
piece during the nano-sacle cutting, this paper analyzes into the 
 8
and the equivalent stress is very similar to the conical shape of 
the tool. And the equivalent strain and equivalent stress 
decreases with increasing distance from the machined surface 
to the interior of workpiece. This is because when the tool cuts 
into the workpiece, the nickel atoms are pressed by the tool, 
causing the stress and strain occurrence on the machined 
surface. However, the action force of nickel atom by the tool 
decreases with increasing distance from the machined surface 
to the interior of workpiece. Therefore the distribution trend of 
equivalent strain and equivalent stress is very reasonable. And 
from these figures, it is seen that the distribution of equivalent 
strain and equivalent stress is not a fixed value, but occurs in an 
alternating higher and lower values along the machined surface.   
This paper thinks that the reason applies for this 
phenomenon is as follows: along with the tool that gradually 
cuts into the nickel workpiece, the displacement of every nickel 
atom is different on the front portion of the conical tool. 
Therefore, the equivalent strain and equivalent stress at the 
machined surface display an alternating higher and lower 
values. The largest equivalent strain and equivalent stress are 
all appear in the chip portion near the two sides of the 
machined surface. Because the displacement of atoms of the 
chip portion is larger, which applies to the reason why the 
equivalent strain and equivalent stress are all larger. Here, it is 
proved that in the aspect of qualitative analysis, the 
deformation model that combines MD with finite element 
deformation model is very reasonable. 
Since conical tool is used in undergoing the nano-scale 
cutting and also the cutting path under a straight line, therefore 
the machining condition should be using the lowest point of the 
tool to be the center, making the left and right symmetrical to 
each other. From Figure 16 to Figure 19, the format of 
distribution trend of the εyy , σyy , equivalent strain and 
equivalent stress on the cross section A-A is shown. Generally 
speaking, the left and right side are not perfectly symmetrical to 
the center, but still quite good. This is because the simulated 
model established herein is very sensitive to the position of 
every atom.  Therefore, the thermal fluctuation of the atoms 
would cause fluctuation to the format of distribution trend of 
the stress and strain, making it not possible to acquire a perfect 
symmetry. 
From the distribution trend of εxx and σxx in the cross 
section B-B in Figure 20 and Figure 21, it is seen that there are 
residual tensile strain εxx and residual tensile stress σxx at the 
area of machined surface. At the the chip and the interface 
surface between the tool and workpiece, its strain and stress are 
all in negative values. Therefore, there is a clear dividing point 
between the tensile portion and compressionsive portion on the 
working surface. This dividing point is not situated at the 
intersection of machined surface and the tip of tool, but at a 
little farther away from the tip of tool towards the cutting 
direction. 
The physical meaning of this phenomenon is as follows:  
since the tool is conical shape, therefore when the conical tool 
cuts into the workpiece, the nickel atoms situating at higher 
away from the lowest point of the conical tool would be 
pressed on the cutting path towards the cutting direction, 
making the nickel atoms of the workpiece fully pressed by the 
tool. And the nickel atoms are pressed and deformed by the 
front portion of the tool, producing an obvious chip and 
produce the compressive strain and compressive stress. The 
nickel atoms of the contact portion between the surface of the 
workpiece and the lowest point of the conical tool also tends to 
pull towards the cutting direction. Therefore, the contact 
portion produces tensile strain and tensile stress.  And along 
with the tool further cutting into the workpiece, the original 
lowest point of the conical tool and the contact portion of the 
tool become machined surface. Therefore after nano-scale 
cutting, all the machined surface would produce residual stress 
and residual strain. 
From Figure 20 and Figure 21, they are obvious that the 
residual tensile strainεxx and residual tensile stress σxx decreases 
with increasing distance from the machined surface to the 
interior of workpiece. 
From the distribution trend of the equivalent strain and the 
equivalent stress in the cross section B-B in Figure 22 and 
Figure 23, they can be found that the equivalent strain and the 
equivalent stress on the workpiece-tool interface is very similar 
to the conical shape of the tool and the equivalent strain and 
equivalent stress decreases with increasing distance from the 
workpiece-tool interface to the interior of workpiece. Figure 22 
and Figure 23 also shows the equivalent strain and the 
equivalent stress of the machined surface decreases with 
increasing distance from the machined surface to the interior of 
workpiece. 
 
6. Conclusion 
 
This paper combines 3D MD and FEM shape function to 
construct the finite deformation model of nano-scale cutting, 
and considers, under the effect of strain-hardening, using flow 
curve acquired from nano-scale tension simulation, as well as 
the nano-scale elastic-plastic relationship equation to calculate 
the stress and strain of single crystal nickel workpiece in 
various axis directions. 
The Young’s modulus of the single crystal nickel material 
used in the MDFM model was obtained through a 
nanoindentation test under very low indentation loading.  And 
the Young’s modulus that is acquired by the low indentation 
loading experiment is very reasonable when comparing it with 
the literatures. 
After simulation, it can be found that with the rigid body 
diamond tool having a gradually cuts into the single nickel 
crystal, the atoms of the single crystal nickel starts to pack, 
forming the cutting chip, whereas packing phenomenon of the 
chip occurs in front of the tool and at two sides of the cutting 
direction.  The qualitative analysis of such phenomenon is 
relatively consistent with the surface topography of the 
practical single crystal nickel nano-scale cutting experiment.  
Therefore it is known that the simulated model developed in 
this paper is very reasonable. 
This paper calculates the cutting force on the tool during 
nano-scale cutting of single crystal nickel.  After simulation, 
within which the average value of the cutting force of Y 
direction is zero, whereas the cutting force of direction Z is 
larger than that of direction X.  This paper also analyzed that 
the reason of this phenomenon is that, the projection area of the 
contact surface of the tool with the workpiece at direction Z is 
larger than that of direction X. 
After analyzing the stress and strain of different axis, it is 
found that phenomenon of residual tensile stress and residual 
tensile strain also occurs on the machined surface after 
nano-scale cutting. After analyzing its physical significance, it 
can be proved that the qualitative analysis of the deformation 
model that combinese MD with finite elements is very 
reasonable. 
 
Acknowledgements 
 
The authors would like to give special thanks to the 
National Science Council, Taiwan, R.O.C. for the financial 
support through the Contract No. NSC 94-2120-M-194-004. 
 
References 
 
[1]. Alder B and Wainwright T, Studies in molecular dynamics: 
I. General method, J. Chem. Phys., 31 (2) (1959) 459. 
