 2 
mechanism and SDP (Session Description Protocol) [6] to support 
quality decision control for media server to transport SVC layered 
multicasting by sender MG. According to the related media 
quality parameters, heterogeneous layered multicasting is 
determined by various end-user’s CODEC capability and 
available network bandwidth estimation in SIP supported receiver 
MG. Then, the scalable bit stream can divide into different layers 
and each layer is corresponding to a separate IP multicast group. 
To measure the varying network bandwidth, MG in server-site 
subnet domain periodically sends back-to-back probing packets 
through overlay tree tunnel between MG in each multicast 
receiver network domain. Thus, the proposed delay trend 
detection method can be used to estimate the end-to-end available 
network bandwidth. By integrated media gateway (MG) 
framework with SIP, the MG can achieve the efficient scalable 
multimedia transmission over heterogeneous multicast networks. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II surveys 
the related SIP/SDP and SVC techniques. Section III shows the 
end-to-end hybrid sender/receiver based MG architecture. Section 
IV explains the proposed SIP control and adaptive SVC streaming 
quality decision by sender MG-S architecture. Section V presents 
the available bandwidth estimation for heterogeneous multicast 
join/leave operation by receiver MG-R architecture. In section VI, 
the experimental results and system demonstration for integrated 
MG architecture are shown and discussed. Finally, we conclude 
this paper in section VII. 
II. PRELIMINARY 
In this paper, we propose a novel media gateway (MG) system 
architecture using adaptive SVC multilayered quality decision and 
available bandwidth estimation for heterogeneous multicast. In 
this section, SIP, SDP, and SVC techniques and uniqueness of 
proposed MG will be briefly introduced 
A. Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) 
The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) is the IETF-specified 
protocol for signaling and session control in multimedia transport 
system [5]. It may be defined as a flexible protocol for managing 
multimedia sessions over IP. A SIP session can also include media 
type of SVC for multimedia multicast application. Therefore, a 
SIP session permits signaling for transport service context sharing 
between a user and an application, or between two or more users 
for multicast session setup, redirection, and teardown. Each 
service within the SIP session can use its own protocol, and SIP is 
just setting the framework for these protocols to be used between 
various endpoints. 
B. Session Description Protocol (SDP) 
The Session Description Protocol (SDP), as in part of SIP, is 
responsible for the representation of the type of multimedia, 
individual media CODEC and session type of applications [6]. It 
may be defined by an offer/answer model to negotiate various 
media descriptions, IP address and port number for identifying 
one media stream between two or more users. For example, if 
more than one user utilizes the media description indicating the 
same media type (e.g., scalable video quality), media servers need 
to identify those descriptions to establish the relationship between 
media streams and receivers.  
C. Scalable Video Coding (SVC) over Real-Time Transport 
Protocol (RTP) 
For the aspect of SVC, most of schemes were proposed to 
provide a combined representation of adaptive video qualities, e.g., 
transcoding, FGS (Fine-Granular Scalability) for video streaming. 
The merit of SVC is that layered stream can adjust oneself to adapt 
for the change in transmission rate and reduce resource 
consumption for heterogeneous network environments. Namely, 
the SVC bitstream is represented in scalable quality description 
with spatial layer, temporal layer and quality layer [4]. As the 
results, SVC streaming is determined to extract by appropriate 
amounts of above-mentioned three-dimension parameters 
combination to meet a user’s specific requirements with the 
specific media bitrate and/or client CODEC resolution. 
Basically, the SVC bitstream is a layered structure composed of 
one non-scalable base layer and one or more enhancement layers. 
An enhancement layer may enhance the temporal resolution (i.e. 
the frame rate), the spatial resolution, or the quality of the video 
content represented by the lower layer or part of it. According to 
the SDP signaling for SVC specification [7], the indication of 
scalable layer operation points are allowed to contain the layer of 
RTP (IP/Real-time Transport Protocol) session [8] be aggregated 
to a single transport stream, or transported independently. 
For SVC over RTP multicast session, the SVC layered streams 
are transported by different media session mapping to multicast 
group address [1], [9]. There are two transport approaches for 
heterogeneous multicast session. The first is to aggregate and/or 
trim SVC packet units of the session conveyed jointly on a single 
transport address for single session. The other one is to extract the 
SVC unit of possibly more than one layer from original SVC file 
in media server and send separately on different transport address 
for multiple sessions. 
III. HYBRID MEDIA GATEWAY ARCHITECTURE 
In this section, we will introduce proposed media gateway (MG) 
with hybrid sender/receiver based system architecture for 
end-to-end multicast transport services. 
A. Functional Features 
Fig.1 depicts our proposed SIP supported MG system 
architecture with hybrid sender/receiver basis for end-to-end SVC 
multicast service. The system architecture consists of three main 
functional modules: SIP client/server signaling control, SVC 
quality adaptation decision, and heterogeneous multicast 
transmission, where physically locate in the sender and receiver 
MG. The role of sender’s MG is to dynamically extract multiple 
layered SVC streams and transport to multiple multicast groups 
using quality adaptation decision / stream transport modules. The 
role of receiver’s MG is to process multicast join/leave the layered 
SVC session based on estimated network conditions and user’s 
capability. The major functional features for MG modules are 
introduced as follows. 
1) SIP proxy user agent: SIP is an application-level signaling 
protocol to control the session layer to initialize, modify, and 
terminate between two or more participant end-devices. The user 
agent is the end device to originate or to respond SIP requests 
 4 
quality level, then quality adaptation can adjust layered SVC 
transmission rate based on network conditions. 
A. Quality Level Planning for Layered Multicast 
The quality level planning is used for SVC layered multicast to 
define a matching table with group address and its corresponding 
streaming parameters of quality level. In signaling process for 
adaptive quality decision, the initial quality level of SVC stream is 
assigned by specific layered multicast group to serve 
heterogeneous multicast receivers with matched CODEC 
capabilities and network conditions. The SVC quality level and 
multicast group mapping is recoded by quality level table as 
shown in Table 1, which is followed by ITU-T H.264 standard for 
SVC coding specifications [11]. 
The purpose of quality level table is to interpret the CODEC 
capabilities, such as Max-BR (maximum bit-rate), Max-MBPS 
(maximum macroblock processing rate), and Max-FS (maximum 
frame size), with supported video quality of resolution and frame 
rate. The SVC streaming is transported to corresponding multicast 
group address with different SVC layered quality.  
Table 1. SVC quality level mapping to layered multicast group 
 (D,T,Q) 
Level 
Max- 
MBPS 
Max- 
FS 
Max- 
BR 
Resolution/ 
frame-rate 
Multicast 
Address 
1 (0,3,0) 3,000 396 192 
176 x 144 
@ 30 
224.100.100.100 
2 (1,3,0) 11,880 396 2,000 
352 x 288 
@30 
224.101.101.101 
3 (2,3,0) 40,500 1,620 10,000 
704 x 576 
@30 
224.102.102.102 
 
B. SDP Quality Parameter Analysis Procedure 
The service request of client for desired SVC media quality is 
initiated to deliver to media server by SIP control request from 
receivers. In the SDP parameter-list, their own codec capability is 
represented by related parameter fmtp codes, such as 
profile-level-id, packetization-mode, and spro-parameter-set. As 
shown in Fig 3, SDP quality parameters need to retrieve from 
SIP-INVITE control message. Thus, the SDP quality parameters 
can be parsed by m-field and a-field. The m-field of payload type, 
m=video 2000 RTP/AVP 96, is checked by syntax code 
conformance. And, the a-field syntax, a = rtpmap: H264-SVC 
/90000, is matched by code name and sampling rate. 
C. SVC Quality Decision and Adaptation Algorithm 
After parsing the related media parameters from SDP, SVC 
quality level can be determined. In Fig. 4, the proposed SVC 
quality decision algorithm is applied for inter-domain multicasting 
by two stage decision-making based on 3-dimensional scalability 
parameters (D, T, Q). In first stage decision, quality level is 
decided by matching user’s CODEC parameters in SDP with 
SVC-NAL parameters (D, T) of video resolution and smoothness. 
In stage 2, fine quality level is decided by network conditions, 
such as available bandwidth and transmission rate, to tune the 
SNR quality parameter Q for fidelity before layered bit-stream 
adaptive extraction. Note that the coarse video quality layer 
decision is determined by the user terminal capability 
classification of SVC spatial and frame rate scalabilities. And, the 
Match with 
Quality Level Table 
Match Max_BR of  
Q_level with B of 
SDP
Result 
check
b < max-brb > max-br
Retain
(D, Q, T) level
SVC Layer 
Extraction
No
(level > 1)
Yes
(level 0
= Base layer)
Adjust
(D, T, Q) level
(level = level -1)
check level
(D, Q, T)
 = 0
S
Output initial
(D, T, Q)_level 
User CODEC parameters
of SDP retrieval:
(Max-BR, Max-MBPS, Max-FS)
BW-parameter of 
SDP retrieval: B
 
Fig. 4. SVC quality level decision algorithm 
Yes
Priority search a-
field:
a=rtpmap code
Yes
             Match with
             fmtp codes:
        1. profile-level-id
        2. packetization-mode
        3. sprop-parameter- 
            sets
No
Match with
codec name and 
sample rate
No
Yes
Quality level 
decision
SDP parameters 
retrieval from 
INVITE
Check
m-field : 
payload type
 
Fig. 3. SDP quality parameter parsing procedure 
 6 
parsing as shown in Fig. 7. The following is SVC quality decision 
test applied by two-stage decision making algorithm based on 
3-dimensional scalability parameters (D, T, Q).  
The performance of quality decision based on available 
bandwidth estimation (ABE) are experimented in IP domain 1 and 
2 (see Fig. 5) with heterogeneous end user devices (UAC-1~3). 
We assume the different network conditions in local network 
domain 1 and the background traffic is generated to simulate 
distinct network conditions.   The experimental results of UAC-2 
are shown in Fig. 8. In scenario (a) without background traffic, the 
quality level for UAC-2 is decided into level 2 SVC streaming 
with medium quality via first decision stage. The available 
bandwidth in IP domain 2 is sufficient to support the received 
bit-rate so that the quality decision in second stage will maintain 
the original decision level.  In scenario (b) with background traffic, 
we observe that the quality level for UAC-2 is decided into the 
same level via first decision stage. However, the available 
bandwidth in IP domain 2 is insufficient to support the received 
bit-rate so that the quality decision in second stage will downgrade 
the quality level by one level till the worst quality grade.  
 
Fig. 7. SDP quality parameters with user requirements 
  
Fig. 8.  SVC quality level decision with network conditions (a) sufficient link 
bandwidth; (b) insufficient link bandwidth 
C. SVC Quality Playout and Measurement Result 
When UAC receive the SVC multicast streaming, the Mplayer 
[12] is utilized to make SVC streaming playout on-time in user’s 
device. In Fig. 9(a), the on-time display is demonstrated by 
different SVC quality level, which is given by (D, T, Q) index as 
referring to Table 1. Considering the performance of proposed 
system MG, the transmission rate of three media streams with high, 
medium, and low quality level are measured in local wired and 
wireless access domain as shown in Fig. 9(b). Therefore, the 
proposed architecture MG-S and MG-R can achieve the adaptive 
quality based on user’s requirements and network conditions. 
VII. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, we propose a media gateway (MG) architecture 
and adopt the SIP signaling control to carry SDP video and user 
information for adaptive SVC quality streaming transport for 
heterogeneous multicast services. According to SIP control 
feedback for user receiving capability and network conditions, the 
multi-layered video quality can be determined by transmission 
rate, and divided to the separate multicast groups. 
(a) 
B
it-ra
te
 (k
b
p
s)
Time (sec)
Level 1 (0, 3, 0) layer
Level 2 (1, 3, 0) layer
Level 3 (2, 3, 0) layer
(b) 
Fig. 9.  SVC streams with high, medium , and low quality level (a) play out at 
receivers; (b) transmission rate in local network. 
Finally, we implement the MG system and conduct several 
experiments for functional measurement. The performance 
evaluations demonstrate that under the wired/wireless network 
environments with different network conditions, MG architecture 
can make accurate decision and achieve better video quality level 
to the heterogeneous receivers. 
REFERENCES 
[1] S. Wenger, Ye-Kui Wang and T. Schierl, ‖Transport and Signaling of SVC 
in IP Networks,‖ IEEE Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, Sept. 
2007, vol. 17, issue. 9, pp. 1164–1173. 
[2] R. Rejaie, M. Handley, and D. Estrin, ―Layered quality adaptation for 
internet video streaming,‖ IEEE J. Select. Areas Commun., vol. 18, no. 12, 
pp. 2530–2543, Dec. 2000. 
[3] H. Schwarz, J. Vieron, T. Wiegand, M. Wien, A. Eleftheriadis, V Bottreau, 
―JSVM Software, Text, and Conformance Status,‖ Joint Video Team, Doc. 
JVT-AE031, July, 2009. 
[4] H. Schwarz, D. Marpe, T. Wiegand, ―Overview of Scalable Video 
Extension of H.264/AVC Standard,‖ IEEE Transactions on Circuits and 
Systems for Video tech., Vol.85, pp.1013-1120, Sept. 2007. 
[5] J. Rosenberg, et al., ―RFC3261 SIP: Session Initiation Protocol,‖ Internet 
Working Group, IETF, June 2002. 
[6] M. Handley and V. Jacobson, ―SDP: Session Description Protocol‖, 
Network Working Group, RFC2327, IETF, April 1998. 
[7] T. Schierl,, K. Gruneberg, Eds., ―Singaling Media Decoding Dependency 
in Session Description Protocol (SDP),‖ IETF MMUSIC RFC 5583, July 
2009. 
[8] T. Schierl,, K. Gruneberg,  and T. Wiegand, ―Scalable Video Coding over 
RTP and MPEG-2 Transport Stream in Broadcasts and IPTV Channel‖, 
IEEE Wireless Communications, Oct. 2009, vol. 16, pp. 64–71. 
[9] Kwang-deok Seo, Jin-soo Kim, Soon-heung Jung, and JeongJu Yoo, ―A 
Practical RTP Packetization Scheme for SVC Video Transport over IP 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-194-024 
計畫名稱 支援可調性編碼視訊串流及其應用之網路群播傳輸服務技術研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
NSC 98-2221-E-194-024 
會議期間及地點 2009/11/30~12/4 
Honolulu, Hawaii,USA 
會議名稱 (中文) IEEE 2009全球通訊國際會議 
(英文) IEEE Global Communications Conference  
( IEEE Globecom 2009) 
發表論文題目 (英文) Hybrid Tree Based Explicit Routed Multicast for  
QoS Supported IPTV Service 
 
 
參加會議經過 
由國際電機與電子工程師學會通訊協會(IEEE Communications 
Society)主辦的2009年國際全球通訊會議(2007 Global Communications 
Conference) 於98 年11 30 日至12月4 日在美國夏威宜的檀香山市
舉行，約有千餘位來自世界各地的學界及業界的專家學者參與。 
Globecom是IEEE通訊學會每年的旗會議,是產官學界齊聚一堂，規
模相當盛大。而且真核心的學術研討會,無論是質或量都有一定的水準,
不是一般研討會所能比的上的。本人投稿此會議論文被接受，有幸受
邀參與盛會發表論文 
本屆大會除了以學術論文研討會為核心外，包含通訊產業論壇(Commu
nications Industry Forum)包括 CEO 論壇, Industry  Leader Forum, 
Technology Leader Forum, Business Forum 等企業網路與服務會議 
Hybrid Tree Based Explicit Routed Multicast for QoS Supported IPTV 
Service。主要探討與評估IPTV控制管理的整合架構，分析評估效能改
善的因子，並說明系統架構各功能。 
參加國際會議可迅速了解到世界各領域相關研究人員所探討及研
究的方向。論文發發表與討論，讓我有相當的收獲及啟發，我也參與
展覽會場活動，並參觀壁報論文區，聆聽作者以及其他與會學者的激
烈爭辯。其中亞洲國家的人數也不少，尤其是近年來大陸的學者及大
陸留學生相當多以熟悉的但卻又不同口語交談。反觀台灣留學生參加
人數卻一年減少。這也是台灣的隱憂。 
 
建    議 
非常感謝國科會部此次補助參加 IEEE Globecom2009 國際會議發
表論文，對我收獲良多。國科會部的補助，對於有心進行研究並積極
參與國際會議的博士生有相當大的鼓勵與協助。希望未來能增加補助
經費，鼓勵國內博士生增加參與國際研討會，增進研究動力與學術交
流。 
 
攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
參加本次大會攜回之主要資料為 
1. IEEE Globecom 2009全文電子檔 CD-ROM 一片。 
2. IEEE Globecom 2009 會議節目議程表一本。 
 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳承崧 計畫編號：98-2221-E-194-024- 
計畫名稱：支援可調性編碼視訊串流及其應用之網路群播傳輸服務技術研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 7 7 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
