based on PCFs and highly nonlinear nonsilica fibers 
for the creation of compact and flexible wavelength-
tunable sources in the 2 – 2.5-μm wavelength range.
英文關鍵詞： CARS, Raman, photonic-crystal fiber, biomedical 
imaging, nonlinear microspectroscopy 
 
1 
 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   □期中進度報告 
               台俄國合計畫- 
建立同調拉曼顯微光譜所需之超短脈衝光纖光源 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  97－2923－E－ 002－001－MY3 
執行期間：97 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立台灣大學 光電工程學研究所 
 
計畫主持人：孫啟光教授 
共同主持人：Dr. Andrey  Fedotov 和 Dr. Anatoly Ivanov 
計畫參與人員：賴盈至博士生助理、蘇倚恩碩士生助理、陳奕欣碩士生助 
              理、劉昭勳碩士生助理 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
■赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權 ■一年 □二年 後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國    100 年    12 月    12 日 
 
附件一 
3 
 
at the output of the laser oscillator, modeling of soliton dynamics in PCFs and highly nonlinear nonsilica 
fibers, and experiments demonstrating the feasibility of such frequency shifters. 
二、報告內容： 
（一）前言 
A subject of great interest in the physical and life sciences is the noninvasive characterization of mesoscopic 
objects within a complex heterogeneous system through optical microscopy. For noninvasive characterization 
of chemical species or biological components within a complex heterogeneous system, their intrinsic 
molecular vibrational properties can be used in contrast mechanisms in optical microscopy. Molecular 
vibrations have oscillation period that reflect the molecular structure, and are hence being used as a 
spectroscopic fingerprints for detection and identification. Microscopy based on coherent anti-Stokes Raman 
scattering (CARS), first demonstrated by Reintjes group, is one of the most powerful and widely used tools 
today in the family of nonlinear optical techniques.  
 
Coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS) involves (Fig. 1) two laser fields with frequencies 1 and 2, 
referred to as the pump and Stokes fields, providing a coherent excitation of a Raman-active mode in a 
medium under study with a frequency  = 1 – 2. The third field with a frequency 3 is then scattered off 
these coherently excited Raman vibrations, giving rise to the anti-Stokes signal at the frequency a = 1 – 2 
+ 3, which provides spectroscopic information on the system or serves to image Raman-active species in a 
medium.  
 
Fig. 1. Wave-vector and energy-level diagrams of coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering. 
 
CARS microscopy has been demonstrated to provide the following advantages: (i) In comparison with 
fluorescent microscopy, it does not require fluorescent probe which is very important for chemical species or 
biological components that either do not fluorescent or can not tolerate the toxicity associated with staining 
and the photo-bleaching of fluorophores. (ii) Since there is no population transfer of electronic excited 
molecular states, photobleaching and damage to biological samples are suppressed. (iii) It is much more 
sensitive than spontaneous Raman microscopy, requiring only a moderate average power for excitation. (iv) 
Being nonlinear microscopy with a signal generation confined to the focal volume, it exhibits a 
three-dimensional sectioning capability similar to that of multiphoton-induced fluorescence microscopy. (v) 
5 
 
and imaging, primarily microspectroscopy and imaging based on coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering 
(CARS). This novel concept of a wavelength-tunable source is based on highly efficient nonlinear-optical 
transformations of ultrashort laser pulses in an optical fiber of a new type -- photonic-crystal fiber (PCF). In a 
PCF, a solid cladding, typical of a standard fiber, is replaced by a glass--air microstructure cladding, where an 
array of air holes run along the fiber parallel to its core. Such fibers can radically enhance nonlinear-optical 
processes due to a strong field confinement in a compact guided mode, localized to a micrometer-size fiber 
core, and a large interaction length, which can be provided even for very short field waveforms by carefully 
engineering fiber dispersion. Dispersion and spatial field profiles in PCFs can be tailored by modifying the 
design of the fiber structure. Nonlinear-optical PCF components based on supercontinuum generation and 
efficient frequency conversion have been intensely used through the past few years in frequency metrology, 
biomedical optics, and ultrafast photonics. 
The proposed project is aimed at the development of fiber-format light sources based on photonic-crystal and 
highly nonlinear nonsilica fibers for the purposes of nonlinear microspectroscopy by means of coherent 
anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS). CARS is a powerful nonintrusive technique of imaging, which 
provides a unique combination of a high selectivity, high sensitivity, and a high resolution in space, time, and 
frequency, offering numerous advantages for in vivo biomedical imaging and endoscopy. The main goal of the 
project is to develop compact and flexible wavelength-tunable light sources for CARS microspectroscopy, 
which will result in a substantial simplification of CARS instrumentation and will help to adapt the CARS 
apparatus for the purposes of real-life biomedical diagnostics and endoscopy. The work planned under this 
project will be aimed at achieving three main tasks. The first task includes the development of fiber frequency 
shifters based on the soliton self-frequency shift in photonic-crystal and highly nonlinear nonsilica fibers. A 
special effort will be focused on a soliton frequency shifting of an ytterbium fiber laser output at 1040 – 1050 
nm to the therapeutic window range of 1200 – 1300 nm, which is of particular interest for the creation of 
all-fiber sources for biomedical CARS imaging. The second important goal to be achieved under this project 
is the creation of fiber-format pulse shapers and fiber components intended to match the spectra of the laser 
fields used in CARS with the Raman lines employed for CARS imaging. This part of the work will include 
the development of photonic-crystal fiber (PCF) components for a spectral narrowing of laser pulses, which 
will allow the reduction of nonresonant background in the CARS signal and will help to minimize the heat 
load on biological samples. The possibilities of developing PCF pulse shapers based on modulation 
instabilities will be also explored. The third main goal of this project is to develop fiber-based frequency 
shifters based on PCFs and highly nonlinear nonsilica fibers for the creation of compact and flexible 
wavelength-tunable sources in the 2 – 2.5-m wavelength range. The work on this task will include 
optimization of laser energy coupling into PCFs and highly nonlinear nonsilica fibers, improvement of the 
performance of Cr: forsterite and other types of femtosecond pump sources toward providing a higher energy 
at the output of the laser oscillator, modeling of soliton dynamics in PCFs and highly nonlinear nonsilica 
fibers, and experiments demonstrating the feasibility of such frequency shifters. 
 
（三）結果與討論 
Here we present only the result of the Taiwan side. The Russian part of report is not included. 
1. Laser source development 
 
7 
 
1100 1150 1200 1250 1300 1350 14000.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
 
 
N
or
m
al
iz
ed
 In
te
ns
ity
Wavelength(nm)
 
Fig. 5. The spectrum of the broad-band light source based on 35µm large mode area PCF and the Cr:forsterite 
laser 
 
4. Fiber-format infrared wavelength-tunable sources : fiber phase shifters 
 
Based on the developed light source, we have demonstrated a PCF based soliton self-frequency-shifted 
femtosecond laser source. We demonstrate a new approach for achieving continuously tunable true-time-delay 
radio-frequency phase shifting by using our developed soliton self-frequency-shifted femtosecond laser source 
and a highly dispersive fiber. This approach has the advantage of simple configuration, simple operation, and 
most importantly, the capability to generate large-dynamic-range continuously tunable phase shift. This work 
was published in IEEE PHOTONICS TECHNOLOGY LETTERS, VOL. 21, NO. 5, pp. 313-315, MARCH 1, 
2009. 
 
Fig. 6. Various fiber output spectra. The values listed on top of the figure represent the total average output 
power after the PCF in the unit of milliwatts. 
9 
 
 
Fig.9. Femtosecond spectral-broadened SC generation. (Left) The spectra of the laser output (red), the fiber 
output with a fiber length of 3.6m (black), and the fiber source with a fiber length of 7cm (blue). (Right) The 
corresponding autocorrelation trace of the blue spectrum. 
 
6. Two octave spanning fiber-format light source 
In the third year of the project, we successfully generate not only the frequency-shifted solitons, but also 
the non-radioactive visible light. Our study indicated that the demonstrated intense Cr:forsterite laser could 
also efficiently suppress the SC generation in selected fibers and provide high power widely-tunable fiber 
sources by soliton self-frequency shift (SSFS) and the soliton-mediated Cherenkov radiation (CR). Using a 
highly nonlinear PCF (SC-5.0-1040, Crystal Fibre A/S) with a zero-dispersion wavelength of 1040nm and a 
core diameter of 5μm, octave-spanning widely-tunable fiber sources with high pulse energy could be thus 
achieved. The fiber nonlinearity γ of the fiber is about 9.1km-1 W-1 at λ= 1.25µm and the dispersion length LD 
is about 12cm. Fig. 10 shows the power dependent spectra of the widely tunable sources, including the 
simultaneously obtained SSFS in Fig. 10(a) and CR below the wavelength of 1100nm in Fig. 10(b). The 
threshold of SSFS was ~20mW and visible CR could be observed above ~80mW. The fiber output frequency 
could span a range from 550nm to 2273nm with a fiber output power of 340mW, which reached both the 
upper and lower wavelength-tuning-limit of 2000nm and 550nm due to absorption in this specific fiber. When 
the fiber output power was 340mW, the average power of the 2000nm soliton was approximately 130mW, 
corresponding to1.53nJ pulse energy. As high as 135mW of the broadband CR was also simultaneously 
obtained. 
 
Fig. 10. The power dependent spectra of the widely-tunable fiber-delivered Cr:forsterite source, 
including the simultaneously obtained SSFS in (a) and CR below the wavelength of 1100nm in 
11 
 
smaller than λ/4, so that the image resolution and quality won’t be affected much by the oblique incidence. 
All the lenses are antireflection coated for high transmission around 1250nm. Combining a 60X water 
immersion objective and treating it as a perfect lens with a 3mm focal length, the scanned laser beam 
projected a 100µm×70µm Lissajous trace on the focal plane. 
 
The experimental setup is illustrated in Fig. 11. We used the fiber-based light source, the MEMS mirror, and 
the miniaturized probe. The reflecting area of the MEMS mirror was a silicon plate suspended by two 
torsional springs. Gimbal mounting of the mirror plate was used and the reflectivity of the mirror plate was 
enhanced by a thin layer of aluminum. The reflectivity of the mirror was ~82%. For the high transmission of 
the incident and reflected laser beams, the protecting glass window covering the MEMS mirror was 
anti-reflection coated around the wavelength of 1250nm. After the MEMS mirror and the well-designed 
relay-lens set, a dichroic mirror (T1070SP_XXT, Chroma) was placed to reflect the scanned laser beam, and 
the beam was focused on the sample by a 1.2NA 60X water immersion objective (UPlanApo60XW/IR, 
Olympus). As the skin or the sample moved to the focal plane, the generated SHG and THG signals were 
epi-collected in a reflection geometry by using the same objective, then coupled into a multimode fiber 
(FT800EMT, Thorlabs), and then guided to the detecting unit. Because the outer diameter of the whole 
module (including the mounting) was designed to be within 3cm, this system was compact enough for in vivo 
hand-held human skin observation. At the detection side, we divided the output of the collection multimode 
fiber into the THG and SHG channels by a dichroic mirror (440DCLP, Chroma), and the HG signals were 
detected by two separate thermal electric (TE)-cooled photomultiplier tubes (PMTs) with 410 and 615 nm 
filters. The signals sent to the computer for the imaging construction. The reconstructed images or movies 
were displayed and saved on the computer. 
 
 
Fig. 11. The schematic diagram of the miniaturized fiber-microscope for THG endoscope. DM: dichroic 
mirror. 
 
Fig. 12 shows the acquired in vivo HG biopsy images from epidermis to dermis. In the epidermis, the 
contrast of epi-THG mainly originated from cell membranes and cytoplasmic laminated organelles of 
corneocytes. By epi-THG microscopy, the cell morphology of different layers in the epidermis could be 
clearly distinguished through the THG-bright cytoplasm. By analyzing the THG profile (not shown) along the 
white line crossing the adjacent cells in Fig. 12(d), the result indicated that the fine structure smaller than 1µm 
13 
 
 
(B) 研討會論文 
I. 國際會議論文 
1. M.-C. Chan, S.-H. Chia, T.-M. Liu, T.-H. Tsai, M.-C. Ho, A. A. Ivanov, A. M. Zheltikov, J.-Y. Liu, 
H.-L. Liu, and C.-K. Sun, “Photonic-Crystal-Fiber-Based Frequency Shifter with a 1.2-2.2-m 
Tuning Range,” in Technical Digest of 6th International Conference on Optics-photonics Design & 
Fabrication, paper 10S2-13, pp. 65-66, Taipei, Taiwan (2008). 
2. S.-H. Chia, T.-M. Liu, N.-Ch. Cheng, M.-C. Chan, I-H. Chen, and C.-K. Sun, “Miniaturized 
Sub-micron Transverse Resolution Nonlinear light Microscope with a Video Rate,” in Abstract 
Book of International Conference on Laser Applications in Life Sciences (LALS 2008), paper 
Sat-S47-03, pp. 73-75, Taipei, Taiwan (2008). 
3. S.-H. Chia, N.-C. Cheng, T.-M. Liu, M.-C. Chan, I-H. Chen, and C.-K. Sun, “Miniaturized 
Epi-Third Harmonic Generation Microscope with a Sub-Micron Spatial Resolution and a Video 
Rate,” in Conference on Lasers and Electro-Optics/International Quantum Electronics 
Conference/Conference on Photonic Applications, Systems, and Technologies, Baltimore, MD 
(2009). 
4. T.-M. Liu, A. A. Ivanov, S.-H. Chia, and C.-K. Sun, “Femtosecond Cr:forsterite Laser Generating 
1.4W Output Power,” in Program Proceeding of the 6th Asian Conference on Ultrafast Phenomena, 
paper P85, pp. 216-217, Taipei, Taiwan (2010). 
5. S.-H. Chia, T.-M. Liu, A. A. Ivanov, A. M. Zheltikov, and C.-K. Sun, “A femtosecond Cr4+:forsterite 
laser generating 1.4W output power,” in Technical Digest of Conference on Lasers and 
Electro-Optics/ Quantum Electronics and Laser Science Conference (CLEO/QELS), paper CMNN6, 
San Jose, CA (2010). 
6. C.-K. Sun, “Resonant Photon Absorption through Confined Acoustic Phonons in Nanoparticles and 
Viruses,” in Technical Digest of the International Conference on Coherent and Nonlinear Optics 
(ICONO-2010) and the International Conference on Lasers, Applications, and Technologies (LAT), 
paper ITuL1, Kazan, Russia (2010). Invited Speaker. 
 
II. 國內會議論文 
1. C.-K. Sun, “Octave-spanning widely-tunable fiber sources with a high pulse energy,” 16th 
Opto-Electronics and Communication Conference (OECC), Workshop II, paper I-2-1, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan (2011), Invited Speaker. 
2. L. V. Doronina, I. V. Fedotov, O. I. Ivashkina, M. A. Zots, A. A. Voronin, E. Rostova, D. A. 
Sidorov-Biryukov, A. B. Fedotov, A. A. Ivanov, C.-K. Sun, K. V. Anokhin, and A. M. Zheltikov, 
“Photonic-crystal fibers for biophotonics,” Abstract Book of Cross-Strait Tsinghua Optics and 
Photonics Workshop兩岸清華光電論壇, paper M3-3, Hsinchu, Taiwan (2011). 
15 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                 日期： 100 年 12 月 12 日 
一、參加會議經過 
二、與會心得 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
六、其他 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 97－2923－E－ 002－001－MY3 
計畫名稱 台俄國合計畫-建立同調拉曼顯微光譜所需之超短脈衝光纖光源 
出國人員
姓名 孫啟光教授 
服務機構
及職稱 國立台灣大學 光電工程學研究所 
會議時間 
99 年 8 月 15 日至 
 99 年 8 月 27 日 會議地點 俄羅斯國立莫斯科大學(Moscow 
State University) 
會議名稱 
(中文) 非線性光學之國際會議 
(英文) International Conference Coherent and Nonlinear Optics 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)奈米粒子與病毒穿透密閉的聲學與聲子之共振光子吸收原理 
(英文) Resonant Photon Absorption through Confined Acoustic Phonons   
       in Nanoparticles and Viruses 
附件四 
17 
 
之興趣，也談到工研院與俄方國家實驗室合作之可能方向。鄭組長於個人行前即提
供非常多簽證與旅途協助，並於 8/15 至莫斯科機場接機，並於 8/19 晚上與夫人設
宴，並同時邀請 Prof. Andrei Fedotov 與 Dr.Anatoly Ivanov。個人對於鄭組長所提供
之各項協助，非常感激。個人亦於 8/17 上午至國科會駐俄羅斯科技組拜訪鄭組長與
鄭秘書，感激兩位長期與多次之協助及支持。 個人於訪問期間，亦受 Andrei Fedotov 
之邀，參與他共同主辦之 International Conferenceon Coherent and Nonlinear Optics 會
議，會議期間為 8/22-8/26。除發表一篇題目為”Resonant Photon Absorption through 
Confined Acoustic Phonons in Nanoparticles andViruses” 之邀請演講外， 亦協助擔任
“Fundamentals of Nonlinear Optics and NovelPhenomena” program subcommittee 的
member。會議期間除與多位俄國及各國重要研究學者從事學術與研究交流外，另與
參加會議之本校郭光宇教授亦有多次討論，對於 plasmonics 及負折射率之非線性光
學研究均有深入的想法。 
此次出訪，由於俄方之正式邀請函(由俄國官方以俄文正式批准之文件)批准極晚(於
8/2 通過)，於台灣拿到正本時已是 8/6 下午。而俄方之簽證須時五個工作天，因此
幾乎無法成行，因此也不敢開票(機票)。最後臨時開票時，原訂之班機已無較廉價之
經濟艙機位，因此必須付費於香港住宿一晚再轉機回台(不是由航空公司出)。由於邀
請函是在六月初向俄國官方提出申請，建議未來赴俄之學者應將時間更為提前(今年
之辦理時間較往年長相當多)。 另外今年莫斯科氣候異常，高溫創下有史以來之紀
錄，森林大火不斷。個人抵達時，濃煙仍非常刺眼，還好空氣溫度於抵俄後三天即
迅速下降，每天亦有小雨，smog 的問題影響並不嚴重。 
19 
 
12) 若無下階段之台俄合作，我方明年暑假可能不會訪俄。 
 
由於同時參加 International Conference on Coherent and Nonlinear Optics，個人亦
chnical Digest 光碟片一份。 
 
 
 
 2
仍非常刺眼，還好空氣溫度於抵俄後三天即迅速下降，每天亦有小雨，smog 的問題影響
並不嚴重。 
 
二. 出國訪問成果 
 
此次訪問之主要對象為 Prof. Andrei Fedotov。與其達成之共識如下:  
1) 下次俄方訪台，應以 Prof. Aleksei Zheltikov 為第一優先。但 Prof. Aleksei Zheltikov 已
確定無法趕上參加今年底之台灣光電研討會。目前 Prof. Aleksei Zheltikov 尚無法確認
其訪台時機。 
2) 關於 1230nm 光纖實驗之我方實驗結果，俄方將進行理論模擬，以決定下階段實驗之
參數設定。 
3) 關於 1030nm 光纖實驗之結果，目前能改進之空間似乎不大，應暫時告一段落。 
4) 我方將與共同主持人 Dr. Anatoly Ivanov 共同努力完成新 Cr:Forsterite 雷射，並試驗新
型 SESAM 鏡組以增加雷射輸出穩定度。 
5) 俄方已完成全光纖 CARS 實驗，由於原計畫並無規畫下一步之進度，若雙方有意願，
必須自費進行計畫外之合作，為未來合作計畫進行測試。 
6) 關於合作之光纖光源結果，目前已完成雙方校稿，應盡快投稿。 
7) 俄方若無法製作，應協助聯繫以利我方取得未來實驗需要之 air-core photonic crystal 
fiber。 
8) 我方將協助俄方設立國家實驗室，並協助非線性顯微術技術。 
9) 若有可能，下一階段之台俄合作案應繼續申請進行。 
10) 下一階段之台俄合作案或可尋求工研院加入，以製作拉曼顯微影像讀寫頭。 
11) 下一階段之台俄合作案可不限於拉曼顯微光譜，而應涵蓋更多其他非線性訊號。二倍
頻或許式雙方的共同短程目標。而腦部神經影像或許是應有之長程目標。 
12) 若無下階段之台俄合作，我方明年暑假可能不會訪俄。 
 
由於同時參加 International Conference on Coherent and Nonlinear Optics，個人亦帶回
Technical Digest 光碟片一份。 
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：孫啟光 計畫編號：97-2923-E-002-001-MY3 
計畫名稱：建立同調拉曼顯微光譜所需之超短脈衝光纖光源 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 200% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100% 3 人 
博士生 1 1 100% 1 人 
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 4 4 100% NHRI & NSC 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 2 300% 
篇 三次在台灣. 二
次在美國. 一次
在俄國 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100% 3 人 
博士生 1 1 100% 1 人 
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
