三、 摘要 
In this report, we will mainly focus on the result of the third year’s 
research of the subproject. A summary of the three-year’s work can be 
found in Section 7. 
 
 A novel MAC frame error rate (FER) based codec switching 
algorithm with threshold adaptation is proposed. The proposed algorithm 
takes into account both the short-term and the long-term channel 
variations. To combat the short-term channel variation, the client 
periodically feeds back the observed MAC FER. The multimedia server 
then adjusts the codec setting by comparing the reported FER to a set of 
codec switching thresholds. On the other hand, to address the effect of the 
long- term channel variation, the codec switching thresholds are also 
periodically adapted with a longer threshold adaptation period which is a 
multiple of the codec switching periods. Given the wireless channel state 
and the codec setting used at the beginning of each threshold adaptation 
period, the media server selects the codec switching thresholds that 
minimize the expected transient mean square error (MSE) of the 
threshold adaptation period. These codec switching thresholds are then 
used for the FER-based codec switching throughout that threshold 
adaptation period. The simulation results show that the algorithm 
significantly improves the peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) by 3 to 5 dB 
for multimedia streaming over varying wireless channels. 
 
 The remainder of this report is organized as follows. In Section 4, 
related works that use cross-layer schemes to combat the time-varying 
channel in wireless multimedia transmissions are reviewed. In Section 5, 
the codec switching adaptation algorithm and the switching threshold 
adaptation algorithm are both described in detail, and the numerical 
results are demonstrated. A conclusion can be found in Section 6. Finally, 
we provide a summary of the three-year’s work in Section 7. 
 
 
四、文獻回顧 
In the literature, several works have investigated the cross-layer schemes 
to combat the time-varying channel in wireless multimedia transmission. 
can be correctly received with higher probability. 
 
It is worth noting that none of the works mentioned above consider 
the dynamics of channel variation. In these works, the codec setting is 
generally chosen to optimize the video quality for the moment. However, 
due to the oscillating nature of wireless channel variation, this might 
cause over-tuning the codec. To avoid the problem, we believe the codec 
setting should not be changed too frequently. This implies that the codec 
setting should be selected by taking the future performance into 
consideration. In our previous work [7], a codec adaptation algorithm is 
proposed by switching the codec settings according to the periodical 
MAC FER feedback from the client. By modeling the varying wireless 
channel variation using a finite state Markov channel (FSMC) model [8, 
9], an induced Markov chain is proposed to jointly model the channel 
variation and the codec adaptation. The codec switching thresholds are 
selected to optimize the expected steady state PSNR for the future. 
However, the codec switching thresholds are fixed instead of adapting 
with time. As a result, there is no guarantee for the optimality of the 
transient video quality. In the following content in this report, the 
transient effects will be taken into account. 
 
五、研究成果 
(一) 系統模型 
1. 系統概觀 
The system diagram of our cross-layer design is shown in Figure 1. The 
raw data is first compressed by H.264 codec at the media server and then 
fragmented into packets with real-time transport protocol (RTP) header 
combined. Each RTP header contains a time stamp for packet-loss 
detection at the client end. The packets are then sent to UDP/IP layer and 
then to the 802.11 MAC layer for transmission. In 802.11, the 
stop-and-wait (SW) ARQ mechanism is used which supports up to three 
re- transmissions when CRC errors are detected. The wireless channel 
layer is modeled by FSMC which is further addressed in Section 5.1. At 
the client end, the inverse procedures are conducted to decode the video 
frames. 
small enough to capture the short-term channel variation. The codec 
switching thresholds are also adapted periodically with a period that is 
multiple of codec switching thresholds to cope with the long-term 
channel variation. Detailed description of the proposed codec switching 
algorithm with threshold adaptation is given in Section 5.2. 
 
 
 
 
 
Denote the time between two consecutive MAC frame transmissions 
by Tp. It is assumed that Tp remains constant throughout the multimedia 
transmission. The channel state transition probabilities can be expressed 
as 
 
where the function  denotes the level crossing rate at , and 
 is the steady state probability of the form 
 
The level crossing rate  at SNR level  has the form of 
 
where  is the average SNR, and  denotes the maximum Doppler 
frequency caused by the user motion. 
 
3. 幀錯誤率模型 
The FER of the frame transmissions over the wireless channel model is 
determined by the channel state and the coding/modulation used. Let 
 denote the FER of channel SNR , the FER  of the channel 
state  can be derived as 
 
1( )
w
iN  1
w
i
w
i
( )N  
0 mf
( )eP  
w
iE
iw
1. 可適性編解碼器切換 
Given that there are Q codec operation settings {o1, o2, · · · , oQ} for the 
media server to choose. The codec settings are listed in the descending 
order of the resulting bit rate produced by the codec and thus the viewing 
quality. The operation of the adaptive codec switching is depicted in 
Figure 5. The main idea is to observe the MAC FER experienced by the 
client in each codec switching period. A codec switching period is set to 
be of duration equal to M MAC frame transmissions. The value of M is 
chosen so the codec switching period is smaller than the coherence time 
of the short-term fading, yet it cannot be set too small. Since the observed 
FER is a multiple of 1/M, the observed FER is not of enough precision 
for the codec adaptation if M is chosen too small. 
 
 
If the FER is low, this implies that the current channel state may be 
good enough in the short term to support codec settings with higher bit 
rate and better video quality. On the other hand, if the FER is high, it 
implies that the channel state is not good enough in the short term to 
support the current bit rate. The server should switch to codec settings 
with lower bitrate. In this work, it is assumed that all the FER feedback 
messages are correctly received. This is generally true since the FER 
feedback messages are very short and thus can be encoded using 
extremely reliable channel code. In our algorithm, the observed MAC 
transmissions. The goal of the threshold adaptation is to determine the 
codec switching thresholds to use for the coming threshold adaptation 
period based on the system state at the beginning of the threshold 
adaptation period, i.e. the channel state wi and the codec setting oq 
(previously determined at the end of the previous codec switching period). 
The codec switching thresholds are chosen to minimize the expected 
MSE for the video transmissions of the threshold adaptation period, 
which is called the transient MSE henceforth in the paper. The optimal 
codec switching thresholds for each combination of oqwi can be obtained 
by the optimization of our transient MSE analysis result in Section 5.3. 
Here we summarize the operation of the threshold adaptation as follows: 
 
 
 
It is worth noting that although it could be time consuming to find the 
switching thresholds following the analytical approach described in the 
later sections, the work can be done off-line and thus does not cause extra 
complexity for the actual video streaming. 
 
 
for the induced Markov chain to transit from state o1wi to o2wj, there are 
two key essential events for the transition to occur: 
 
 
 
 
 
not independent. They are correlated through the K state transitions of the 
induced Markov chain in the threshold adaptation period. To solve the 
problem, we first consider the conditional joint pdf of 
: 
 
As a result, the conditional joint moment generating function (MGF) of  
 can be express as 
 
where  and 
 
The conditional MGF of the average MSE  is thus 
 
Now it suffices to find . This can be done by first deriving 
the pdf  as 
 
1 2 2 3 1 1( , , , , , , , | )K K K       
1 2( , , , )K   
1 2( , , , )K   
T
1( ; | )t t t t    
1( , | )t t tf   
Recall that λ (m) = o(m)w(m) denotes the m-th element of the indexed state 
space of the induced Markov chain {Λ t}. 
 
The expected transient MSE E[ ] can thus be computed by 
taking the derivative with respect to (16), which gives the result 
 
 
(四) 最佳切換閾值標準 
For the transient MSE analysis in the previous subsection, it is observed 
that the transient MSE in each threshold adaptation period depends on the 
initial state Λ 1 of the induced Markov chain in that threshold adaptation 
period and the codec switching thresholds , note that the 
latter is obvious from (15). This indicates that for any given initial state 
Λ 1 at the beginning of each threshold adaptation, there exists a set of 
switching thresholds which minimizes the expected transient MSE of that 
threshold adaptation period. This serves as the criterion of our optimal 
threshold adaptation. 
 
By enumerating over all possible combinations of FER thresholds, 
the optimal switching thresholds can be obtained. However, the 
complexity is too high when quite a few codec settings are considered. In 
Figure 9, we plot the expected transient MSE for all possible combination 
of FER thresholds given that there are only two codec settings available 
and the initial state is Λ 1 = o1w1. One can see that the MSE is fairly 
smooth. Another MSE plot is shown in Figure 10 given that there are 
three available codec settings and two of the four thresholds are fixed, 
whereas the other two are enumerated. The MSE surface is again fairly 
1|T 
, 1 , 1 1{ , }
Q
q q q q qT T  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
3 to 5 dB. This shows that with our codec adaptation algorithms, one can 
still achieve good performance under a reduced number of codec settings 
for adaptation. This can significantly reduce the complexity of the codec 
switching operation as well as the search time for the optimal switching 
thresholds, which is a main merit of our proposed algorithm. 
 
 
 
六、總結 
In this report, a cross-layer design has been proposed to optimize the 
transient performance of wireless multimedia streaming using adaptive 
codec switching with threshold adaptation. The algorithm periodically 
adjusts the codec setting according to the MAC FER to combat the 
short-term channel variation; the codec switching thresholds are also 
periodically adapted with a longer threshold adaptation period to cope 
with the effect of the long-term channel variation. The expected transient 
MSE during each threshold adaptation period has been analyzed and 
optimized to find the optimal codec switching thresholds. In each codec 
switching period, the server compares the received FER with the 
thresholds to decide which codec to use. The optimal thresholds for 
threshold adaptation can be calculated off-line, and thus do not cause 
extra computation complexity during the video streaming. The simulation 
results show that the algorithm significantly improves the PSNR by 3 to 5 
dB for multimedia streaming over varying wireless channels. 
 
 
 
七、成果自評 
In this three-year subproject, we have many significant and interesting 
results listed below. 
 
For the first year, an integrated and fully automated software 
simulation platform is implemented. The platform plays an important role 
in finding the optimal configurations for the integration of wireless 
communications and multimedia compressions. Through comprehensive 
system simulations of different video transmissions, we found the best 
               (A1) 
 
Denote the channel states experienced by the M MAC frame 
transmissions in a codec switching period by the random vector   
w = [ ]. The conditional PGF of the total number of erroneous 
frames in the codec switching period can be derived as 
 
      (A2) 
 
The conditional PGF of the total number of erroneous frames depends on 
the channel state only. Since there are many possible realizations of the 
channel state vector w, we need to take the expectation of the conditional 
PGF with respect to the probability of each possible realization of the M 
channel transitions in one codec switching period. This can be done by 
combining the transition probability matrix P and { } as 
 
(A3) 
 
 
1 2
, , ,
Mi i i
w w w
( )
iw
 
Note that the resulting Hi,k( ) is simply the PGF of F
w
i,k(l). From the 
definition of the PGF 
 
          (A7) 
 
one can find the values of {F
w
i,k(l)} required for the MSE analysis in (14) 
and (15). 
  

[8] R. K. Guha and S. Sarkar, “Characterizing temporal SNR variation in 
802.11 networks,” in IEEE Wireless Communication and Networking 
Conf., vol. 3, 2006, pp. 1408–1413. 
 
[9] J. Ar a´uz and P. Krishnamurthy, “Markov modeling of 802.11 
channels,” in IEEE 58th Vihecular Technology Conf., vol. 2, 2003, 
pp. 771–775. 
 
[10] H, Schwarz, and D. Marpe, and T. Wiegand, “ Overview of the 
Scalable Video Coding Extension of the H.264/AVC standard,” IEEE 
Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 17, no. 9, pp. 1103–1120, 
Sep. 2007. 
 
[11] Y.P. Fallah, and H.Mansour and S. Khan and P. Nasiopoulos and 
H.M. Alnuweiri, “A Link Adaptation Scheme for Efcient 
Transmission of H.264 Scalable Video Over Multirate WLANs,” 
IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 18, no. 7, pp. 
875–887, Jul. 2008. 
 
[12] Y. Cho, and C.-C.J. Kuo, and R. Huang, and C. Lima, “ Cross-layer 
Design for Wireless Video Streaming,” IEEE Global Commun. Conf., 
2009, pp.1–5. 
 
[13] Y. Wang, and L.-P. Chau, and K.-H. Yap, “Bit-Rate Allocation for 
Broadcasting of Scalable Video over Wireless Networks,” IEEE 
Trans. Broadcast., no. 99, Jun. 2010. 
 
[14] Q. Zhang and S. A. Kassam, “Finite-state Markov model for 
Rayleigh fading channels,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 47, pp. 
1688–1692, 1999. 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：葉丙成 計畫編號：98-2220-E-002-005- 
計畫名稱：多媒體系統無線傳輸介面之研發--子計畫四：整合即時壓縮之無線多媒體傳輸實體層設計
(3/3) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 7 7 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 1 1 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
