離，則省略此級；後級為直流到交流變流
器，主要功能是將測試的功率回送到市電並
可執行並聯式主動式電力濾波器功能，如
此，至少七或八成以上的模擬測試電力將可
透過本裝置回收以供循環始使用。 
 
二、研究目的與文獻探討 
國內外也有些方法被提出[1-9]，其中文
獻[7]提出一非線性數位電流模式控制單相
全橋交/直流轉換器，其控制策略為在一個
切換週期內根據輸入電源之極性與電流追
蹤之誤差操作於四種模式，並為實現較小之
電流漣波產生採用三種不同程度之電感電
流斜率，每一種操作模式採用兩種斜率使其
電感電流在最短時間內能追蹤到平均電感
電流命令之位置，且能控制電流漣波達到最
小。文獻[8]則提出新的動態電子負載模擬
器，具有取代原有 RLC 負載元件以節省空
間、減少消耗負載冷卻裝置、電子負載模擬
器吸收之能源回送市電等特點。其主架構由
三個部份組成，一為功率回收裝置，具雙向
功率潮流之整流器，可適當調整直流鏈電壓
並操作於單位功因；二為負載模型控制器，
由電源裝置取得模擬負載之電流波形，由
DSP TMS320C14 計算產生模擬負載電流命
令；三為電流控制電壓源轉換器，依據負載
模型控制器產生之電流命令，使轉換器輸入
電流高速追蹤電流命令之性能，為其動態電
子負載模擬器系統核心。文獻[9]實現一電子
負載控制器，其主要精神仍屬一主動式電源
濾波器，主架構由三個部分組成，一為自激
式感應發電機，作為系統之三相電源；二為
電流控制電壓源變流器，工作於交/直流整
流模式，控制自激式感應發電機輸出為定電
壓，並抑制由負載引入之諧波；三為直流鏈
之直流斷路器，其斷路器串接一電阻性負
載，接於電流控制電壓源變流器之直流鏈兩
端，控制自激式感應發電機輸出為定功率，
當負載小於發電機輸出功率時，其斷路器導
通，將兩者功率差由電流控制電壓源變流器
吸收。以上這些方法或為以電壓控制模式進
行能量傳送，或為以電流控制模式傳送能
量，而且這些方法大多針對直流電源供應
器、不斷電電源供應系統等作設計，較少有
其他型式負載之考慮。而本研究則希望能有
更廣泛應用面的技術發展。 
 
三、研究方法 
本計畫之三相交流電子負載模擬器系
統架構分成兩個部份探討，如圖 1 所示。第
一個部份是主電路架構；第二個部份是數位
控制器。主電路架構由兩個三相升壓型交/
直流轉換器與一採用零電壓相移控制之直
流到直流轉換器。由於第一、三級皆為三相
升壓型交/直流轉換器，皆可單級獨立運轉
操作，其中之差異為控制法則略有不同。前
級轉換器只做負載測試，未對直流鏈電壓作
控制。後級轉換器除了對直流鏈電壓作控制
和將能量回送至市電端外，且可選擇是否具
有主動式電力濾波器功能。 
)(
/
option
DCDC
 
圖 1  三相交流電子負載模擬器系統架構 
 
3.1 直/交流轉換器控制法 
後級直/交流轉換器控制法，一般可分
為電壓控制法和電流控制法兩種。電壓控制
法乃利用傳統功率潮流控制原理，控制昇壓
電感兩端之電壓振幅大小與相角大小，達成
電力轉換器之實、虛功率傳輸控制，若控制
使虛功率傳輸為零，僅有實功率傳輸，則可
實現功因校正功能。電流控制法乃控制電力
轉換器之輸入電流，期望輸入電流追隨命令
電流變化，若命令電流為與輸入電壓同相之
正弦命令電流，則可控制輸入電流實現單位
功因，具有功因校正功能。 
 
A. 電壓控制法 
若假設三相昇壓型交/直流轉換器輸入
電壓為三相交流電源且輸入電流為三相穩
態平衡電流，故可視為三個單相交流電源所
組成之三相交流電源，圖 3 即為圖 2 之 R 相
φφ sinRRnivd
dP =    (15) 
(14)式為電壓控制法之實功率對相角之變化
率，對相角微小變化將造成實功率劇烈變
化；(15)式為電流控制法之實功率對相角之
變化率，其對相角微小變化僅造成實功率微
小變化。若(14)式與(15)式之δ 、φ皆為 1°
作變化，則(14)式對於實功率產生 99.98%之
變化，而(15)式對於實功率產生 1.74%之變
化，由此結果得知電壓控制法對於相角變化
較敏感，對於實功率控制較困難，故本文之
兩級轉換器均採用電流控制法。 
 
3.2 高頻隔離型直/直流轉換器理論分析 
本計劃利用全橋式相移轉換器做為前
後級高頻隔離之用，全橋式相移控制轉換器
是利用降壓型功率轉換器的架構所衍生而
來，利用變壓器的漏電感、一次側外加的諧
振電感與開關元件上面的寄生電容進行諧
振，使得電路中的四個開關均能操作在零電
壓切換，此作法的優點不但可以減低開關切
換時的應力，同時也不需要緩震電路，也能
降低切換的損失及電磁干擾。 
圖 6為相移控制全橋式零電壓切換轉換器
的基本架構。其中 AQ ~ DQ 四個金氧半場效
電晶體(MOSFET)形成全橋的架構； AD ~ DD
為四個功率晶體的本極二極體(Body 
Diode)， AC ~ DC 為四個功率晶體的寄生電
容， RL 則是一次側的諧振電感。本計劃之
全橋式相移轉換器擬為固定責任周期之控
制方式，且將包含電流回路以避免鐵心飽和
問題。圖 7為相移式零電壓轉換器的控制開
關時序圖及一次側的電壓、電流波形圖。 
偏磁抑制 
在全橋轉換器中，變壓器偏磁現象是常
見的問題，因為只要功率開關的特性不同或
線路佈線所造成的電路組抗不同，當轉換器
長期運轉所造成的溫度變化時，就會造成變
壓器初級測正負半週電壓伏秒不平衡或電
流正負半週的斜率不同所造成的變壓器飽
和危險。 
要抑制偏磁問題可以在變壓器初級測
串聯一顆電容，此電容可以濾除直流成份消
除變壓器的伏秒不平衡，此方法簡單但有電
容耐流不易計算與電容量需很大的問題。另
一方法為電流峰值控制法為本論文所使用
的方法，如圖 8所示，當沒有電流峰值控制
時，會因為線路阻抗的不同而發生偏磁現
象，當到達一定負載量時會導致變壓器飽和
的危險。而使用峰值電流控制法可以控制每
一周期的電流峰值大小維持一樣，如圖 9，
使變壓器的磁滯曲線在安全的範圍內穩定
運轉，有效抑制偏磁現象發生。 
 
圖 6 相移控制全橋式零電壓切換轉換器的
基本架構 
 
圖 7 控制開關時序圖及一次側的電壓、電
流波形圖 
 
nRpS SpS TpS
TnSSnSRnS
Rnv
Ri fL
dcC
fL
fLTnv
Snv
Si
Ti
fR
fR
fR
loadR
loadi
 
圖 14 修正式 SPWM 的主架構 
 
四、結果與討論 
圖 15為傳統正弦脈波寬度調變控制法
的輸入電壓與電流波形。圖 16 為修正式
SPWM 時其中一相的輸入電壓與電流波形。  
 
 
圖 15 正弦脈波寬度調變控制輸入電壓
Vr、電流 Ir，1064W 
 
圖 16 修正式 SPWM 控制之輸入電壓 Vr、電
流 Ir，1064W 
圖 17 為兩者效率之比較，由此圖可知前者
有較佳電流波形，但後者有較好效率。 
0.895
0.9
0.905
0.91
0.915
0.92
0.925
0.93
0.935
0.94
266 360 420 513 852 1064
SPWM
SIX-STEP
 
圖 17 傳統 SPWM 與修正式 SPWM 之效率比較 
 
圖 18 為轉換器輸出功率 900W 時的 PV
與 Pi 波形，此時的有效工作週期 effD 為
0.75，圖 19 為轉換器輸出功率達 1.8kVA 時
的波形, 有效工作週期 effD 為 0.78，其中有
一週期的 effD 為 0.7，此現象是在抑制變壓
器偏磁時所作的週期動態調整，目的是讓每
一週期的電流峰值維持相同的高度，使變壓
器不置於達到飽和。圖 20 為滿載 2.7kVA 時
的工作波形此時 effD 為 0.8，由於諧振電感
會造成轉向區間的初級側電流有限的斜率
變化，因此會產生工作週期損失(Duty 
Loss)，此現象會使工作週期不會達到最大
範圍，有效工作週期 effD 會變小因此在設計
變壓器時須預先考慮到此現象。 
圖 21 為輸出功率達 900W 時領先側開
關 CQ 上的電壓 DSV 與電流 DSI 波形，圖 22
為落後側開關 AQ 上的電壓 DSV 與電流 DSI 波
形，由圖中可看到當開關電壓為 0V 時電流
才上升，沒有交疊的面積，表示達到了零電
壓切換降低開關的切換損失。 
 
圖 25 回收機模擬負載 1524W 時的波形 
 
圖 26 回收機模擬負載 1905W 時的波形 
圖 27 回收機模擬負載 2500W 時的波形 
 
五、結論 
本計畫對能源回收機之可行策略研究
結果，已利用電流控制法作為能源回收之控
制策略，並可依照待測物的額定功率大小來
設計回收機前級交/直流轉換部分，達到整
流與功率因數修正的目的。前後級能源回收
與負載模擬部份已達數位化，利用數位訊號
處理器(DSP TMS320LF2407A)作為整體的控
制核心，並搭配 LCD 顯示器可監督模擬功
率、市電電壓、直流鏈電壓等訊號結果，最
後改良低頻隔離部份以高頻隔離轉換器取
代之，實現節約能源、輕量化、且可因應不
同待測設備使用的目的。 
六、參考文獻 
1. [1] S. Gupta, V. Rangaswamy, R. Ruth, 
"Load bank elimination for UPS 
testing," IEEE IAS Conference 
Record, pp. 1040-1043, 1990. 
2. C. L. Chu, C. L. Huang and J. F. Chen, 
"A study on the test UPS by energy 
feedback method,"  IEEE ISCAS,  PP. 
3015-3018, 1991. 
3. E. A. Vendrusculo and J. A. Pomilio, 
"High-Efficiency regenerative Electronic 
load using capacitive idling converter for 
power source testing,” IEEE PESC’96 ,  
pp. 969-974, 1996. 
4. C. A. Ayres and I. Barbi, " A Family of 
converters for UPS production burn-in 
energy recovery," IEEE Transaction on 
Power Electronics, Vol. 12, No. 4, pp. 
615-622, 1997. 
5. R. Wu, S. B. Dewan, and G. R. Selmon, 
"Analysis of an ac-to-dc voltage source 
converter using PWM with phase and 
amplitude control,"  IEEE Trans. Ind. 
Appl., Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 355-364, 1991. 
6. C. E. Lin, M. T. Tsai,  W. I. Tsai, C. L. 
Huang, 1997," Consumption Power 
Feedback Unit for Power Electronics 
Burn-in Test," IEEE. Trans .on Ind. 
Electronics, Vol. 44, No. 2, pp. 157-166, 
April, 1997. 
7. Meng-Yueh Chang, Jiann-Yow Lin, 
Ying-Yu Tzou, “DSP-based fully digital 
control of a AC/DC converter with a 
nonlinear digital current mode control,” 
IEEE PESC Conf. Rec., Vol. 2, 
pp. 1702-1708, June 1996. 
8. M. T. Chang, J. Y. Lin, S. L. Jung, Y. Y. 
Tzou, “ Design and Implementation of a 
Real-Time Lossless Dynamic Electronic 
Load Simulator,” IEEE PESC Conf. Rec., 
Vol. 1, pp. 734-739, June 1997. 
9. B. Singh, S. S. Mwthy, S. Gupta, “ An 
Improved Electronic Load Controller for 
Self-Excited Induction Generator in 
Micro-Hydel Applications,” IEEE Trans. 
on Industrial Electronics Society, Vol. 3, 
pp. 2741-2476, Nov. 2003. 
 
66%。此 413 篇論文中有 362 篇論文以口頭(Oral)簡報發表，51 篇論文以壁報
(Poster)方式發表。口頭簡報每個場次約有 4~6 篇論文發表。整個會議程序尚
包括 14 場演講(3 場 Plenary Speech，6 場 Invited Talk 及 5 場 Tutorial)。3 場
Plenary Speech 之主題與演講者如下： 
Plenary Speech 1: Human-Friendly Robotics, by Professor Oussama Khatib, IEEE 
Fellow, Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, USA. 
Plenary Speech 2: Innovation, by Professor Nam Pyo Suh, President of the Korea 
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), Korea. 
Plenary Speech 3: Inherent Nonlinearities and their Impacts in Power Electronics 
and Electric Drives, by Professor Istvan Nagy, IEEE Fellow, Budapest 
University of Technology and Economics, Hungary. 
國內此次約有50多篇論文在此會議中發表，皆為國內大學系所研究的成果。與
會者除了主辦國韓國本身的專家學者外，尚包括來自中國、台灣、日本、法
國、美國、巴西、伊朗、泰國、波蘭、波蘭、新加坡等國家。在此次研討會中
台灣學者之論文發表數排行第三，僅次於韓國及中國。本人的論文發表為口頭
簡報，被大會安排在第二天 (July 6th) 下午之『 Sliding Mode Control 
application』  場次報告。由於本場次簡報的論文有5篇，因此每篇論文時間可
有24分鐘，其中報告時間為15分鐘，另有9分鐘的發問與回答。本人所發表的
論文題目為 『Power control strategies evaluation of a series resonant inverter for 
atmosphere plasma applications』，如附件。此論文主要是針對串聯諧振變流器
於常壓電漿應用之功率控制策略評估，而所實作的常壓電漿是應用在半導體製
程的清潔上，是一個相當實務的技術，現場亦有人針對電漿清潔處理後之效果
有何差異提問，可惜因只考慮本身相關的技術問題，並未準備這方面照片故無
法清楚回答，至於其他所提出之技術相關問題則本人大致能回答。除了本身論
文報告外，本人也參與其它多場口頭論文或壁報論文簡報，並與作者互相討
論，互換心得以吸取其精華。本人參加IEEE ISIE 2009會議現場狀況如圖1~圖3
所示。 
    
圖 1. 在 IEEEISIE 2009 會議註冊處(右一)                     圖 2. 本人在會場                              圖 3. 本人在會議現場簡報 
 
 
 Power control strategies evaluation of a series 
resonant inverter for atmosphere plasma 
applications  
M. T. Tsai   C. L. Chu 
 Department of Electrical Engineering, Southern Taiwan University, 
Tainan, Taiwan, R. O. C. 
Abstract-A prototype of a high-voltage high-frequency power 
supply for atmosphere plasma applications such as dielectric 
barrier discharge and corona-discharge is presented. It is consisted 
of a rectifier accompanied power factor correction function (PFC) 
and a resonant inverter. Some technologies, including 
pulse-amplitude modulation (PAM), pulse-width modulation 
(PWM), pulse-density modulation (PDM) and pulse-frequency 
modulation (PFM) have been tested to evaluate the power control 
performances. Experimental results show that the diversity among 
these methods and a hybrid control is suggested in accordance 
with these applications.  
Keywords: Plasma, dielectric barrier discharge, phase-shift, PAM, 
PWM, PDM. PFM. 
I  Introduction 
High-voltage high-frequency pulse power supply has 
been recognized as one of the feasible solution in the fields 
of plasma applications, including dielectric barrier 
discharge (silent-discharge) and corona-discharge [1-7]. 
Atmosphere plasma equipment includes a silent-discharge 
tubf- a resonant inverter with high-voltage high-frequency 
transformer, and a cooling system. Control of the plasma 
can be categorized into the following strategies including 
PWM, PDM, PAM, PFM, and by combination of the above 
methods [1, 3, 4]. As the PWM method has the drawback of 
hard switching loss, and the PAM need an additional front 
stage, the feasible solutions are PFM, PDM methods and 
their combinations so as to guarantee the soft switching 
function.   
This paper discusses the power control strategies 
applied to the plasma equipment. The proposed pulse power 
supply is consisted of a PFC rectifier, a voltage-source 
full-bridge inverter using the MOSFET power modules. The 
inverter out is connected to the plasma reactor through a 
high-voltage high-frequency transformer with a secondary 
voltage rating of over 10 kV. Thus, the equivalent load of 
the inverter can be considered a RLC series circuit which 
means a higher switching frequency than the load resonant 
value, resulting in a lagging load condition, can have a 
benefit of ZVS switching. In this paper, the PFC rectifier 
control is achieved by UC3854 based controller. The 
inverter output power control strategies, including PWM, 
PFM, and PDM control are finished by UC3895 based 
controller plus a PIC16F877 based microprocessor.
II. System configuration 
Fig. 1 shows a schematic configuration of the plasma 
equipment using a high-frequency inverter with a 
high-voltage transformer.  It mainly consists of a PFC 
rectifier shown in Fig. 1(a), and a resonant inverter shown 
in Fig. 1(b). The equivalent circuits of the high-frequency 
high-voltage transformer and the plasma reactor have also 
been shown in this figure, where rL  and mL are 
corresponding to the leakage inductance and magnetizing 
inductance of the high-frequency transformer. Since the 
plasma reactor is connected to the inverter through the 
high-frequency transformer, the leakage inductance rL is 
inserted in series with it. The characteristic of the plasma 
reactor is greatly dependent on the geometry of the 
electrode of equipment. Generally, the discharge gap is 
IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics (ISIE 2009) 
Seoul Olympic Parktel, Seoul, Korea  July 5-8, 2009 
 
978-1-4244-4349-9/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE 
 
 
632
phase shift control and with the lossless snubbing capacitor, 
the ZVS can be achieved in the leading leg for all the load 
conditions, but can be achieved in the trailing leg only in 
the case that the inverter operates with a lagging load 
current. For a RLC series, it means the inverter switching 
frequency should be higher than the load resonant 
frequency.  
C. Power control strategies 
The load characteristic is dependent on the operation 
status shown in Fig. 2. When the instantaneous electrode 
voltage is lower than the gas breakdown voltage, the load 
resonant frequency is almost constant and no discharge 
occurs. As the instantaneous electrode voltage is larger than 
a certain value, gas discharge beginning, then gC to be 
short out, resulting in a decrease of the load resonant 
frequency. Thus the inverter output power depends greatly 
on the electrode peak voltage. This feature should influence 
the performances of the adopted power control methods.  
The PAM controls the inverter input voltage by 
controlling the PFC stage output voltage to achieve the 
adjusting inverter output power. Considering the power 
elements stress and wide voltage range, it is preferred   
buck-boost scheme to boost scheme as the PFC stage. 
However, as the instantaneous electrode voltage should be 
large than the gas breakdown level so as to form a sustain 
discharge procedure, thus the inverter input voltage can not 
be lower than a certain level, so it leads to a result that 
discharge power is difficult to less that half of the full range. 
Moreover, a low voltage operation may be accompanied a 
partial or local discharge due to inequality of the gas 
between the electrode and dielectric.  Another 
disadvantage is that the inverter output power factor 
decreases as the output increases in the PAM scheme, if the 
operation frequency is constant.  
The PWM controls the pulse width of the inverter 
output voltage to achieve the adjusting output power. By 
shifting the phase difference of the control phase with 
respect to the standard phase, the output power can be 
varied from full power to low power, therefore it is feasible 
to regulate the inverter output power. It is also known that 
the lossless snubbing capacitors can enable the inverter to 
perform ZVS function when it operates with a lagging load 
current. For discontinuous load current or leading load 
current, the ZVS function can not be achieved in the trailing 
leg, resulting in an increasing switching loss. Similarly to 
the PAM scheme, the inverter output power factor also 
decreases as the pulse width increases in the PWM control 
when the switching frequency is constant. A small pulse 
width tends to a discontinuous load current or leading load 
current, which is adverse to the switching loss, thus it is 
disapproved for a low pulse width control. 
The PFM controls the frequency of the inverter output 
voltage to achieve the adjusting output power. To realize 
zero voltage switching, the inverter output frequency should 
be large than the load resonant frequency. Thus, one can see 
that the inverter power fact should decline in low power 
range. Furthermore, the inverter output power will have a 
steep increase when the frequency is approaching the load 
resonant frequency. This will increase the difficulty to 
control the inverter output power stably. As the same as the 
PAM and PWM situations, it is difficult for the PFM 
applied to the voltage-source series-resonant inverter to 
adjust the discharge power to less than half of the full 
power[3], as the electrodes voltage would be lower than the 
gas discharge breakdown voltage.   
The PDM controls the output power by controlling the 
number of inverter output voltage pulses, in other words, it 
is to repeat “run and stop”, in accordance with the desired 
output power. The inverter repeats the gas discharge 
procedure which consists of power-on period and 
zero-power period, while the inverter frequency is constant. 
For example, if a working cycle represents a time interval of 
40 working pulses, thus by varying the number of these 
working pulses from 10 to 40 will have a regulated output 
power from 25% to 100%. [1] has shown this method can 
work well over a range of pulse densities from 3/30 to 1. 
634
Figure 5 shows the experimental waveforms of PFM 
based control scheme. Fig. 5(a) shows a case of switching 
frequency of 50 kHz.  Fig. 5(b) shows a case of switching 
frequency of 40 kHz.  It shows the inverter output power 
increases as the switching frequency increases, and the 
power factor decreases as the output power increases. The 
input power related to Fig. 5(a) and Fig. 5(b) is 270W and 
720W.  
Vs
iR
VAB
(400V/div)
(10A/div)
(5kV/div) (10us/div)
Fig. 5(a)  PFM control for 50 kHz switching frequency. 
VAB
iR
Vs
(400V/div)
(10A/div)
(5kV/div) (10us/div)
Fig. 5(b)  PFM control for 40 kHz switching frequency. 
Figure 6 shows the experimental waveforms of PDM 
based control scheme. Fig. 6(a) shows a case of during 
operation at a pulse density of 25% (10/40).  The input 
power is about 230W. Fig. 6(b) shows a case of during 
operation at a pulse density of 50% (20/40).  The input 
power is about 420W.  The switching frequency in this 
case is about 40 kHz. It shows the inverter output power 
increases as the pulse density increases.  
Vs
iR
VAB (400V/div)
(10A/div)
(5kV/div) (100us/div)
Fig. 6(a)  PDM control for a case of during operation at a pulse density of 
25% (10/40). 
VAB (400V/div)
Vs (5kV/div) (100us/div)
iR (10A/div)
Fig. 6(b)  PDM control for a case of during operation at a pulse density 
of 50% (20/40).  
V. Conclusion 
In this study, a prototype of a high-voltage 
high-frequency power supply for atmosphere plasma 
applications has been presented. Different control strategies 
have been tested to evaluate the power control effect. As the 
experimental results, some conclusions can be made as 
follows: 
1. The only PAM control is not encouraged as it needs a 
complicated front stage to achieve voltage regulation 
function, and is hardly used to less that half of the full 
range due to the required gas breakdown voltage level  
2. The PWM control can fulfill the full load range 
conditions. However, a small pulse width tends to a 
discontinuous load current or leading load current, 
which is adverse to the switching loss, thus it is 
disapproved for a low pulse width control. 
3. The only PFM control is also not encouraged as it 
should be large than the load resonant frequency to 
636
