vacuum with optional oxygen gas flow.  We 
focused on electron irradiation induced nucleation 
of R-type ZnO from the dense W-ZnO/Zn 
intergrowth with considerable lattice mismatch 
stress at the interface.  The results turned out to 
be an interesting comparison with the relatively 
inert Zn-ZnO core-shell heteronanobelts 
synthesized with a kinetic controlled process 
using a solid-vapor phase deposition system 
[10,11].  This knowledge is of importance to 
understanding the chair- and/or boat-type Peierls 
distortion path as well as the polar surface 
specification (10 1 1) upon excitation of epitaxial 
W-ZnO/Zn condensates for potential applications.  
Our additional experiments by laser ablation on 
Zn and Ni targets successfully synthesized minor 
R-type Zn1-xNixO condensates for potential 
catalytic and semiconducting applications. 
 
2. EXPERIMENTAL 
The Zn target with negligible impurities 
(99.9% pure) was subject to energetic 
Nd-YAG-laser (Lotis, 1064 nm in wavelength, 
beam mode: TEM00) pulse irradiation in a 
chamber pumped to a moderate vacuum of 3x10-5 
torr yet with tramp oxygen from target and/or 
chamber surface.  Laser ablation was conducted 
at 560 mJ/pulse, i.e. power density of 1.17×1012 
watts/cm2 given pulse time duration of 16 ns at 10 
Hz (Q-switch) on a focused area of 0.03 mm2 for 
30 min. 
The laser pulse time duration was 240 μs at 10 
Hz, having laser beam focused to a spot area of 
0.03 mm2 on the Zn and Ni targets inside the 
ablation chamber simultaneously for 10 min. 
Oxygen (99.999% purity) was supplied near a 
fixed flow rate of 50 L/min to oxidize, condense 
and cool the metal vapor.  The laser beam input 
energy of 450 mJ/pulse and power density of 6.2×
107 W/cm2 per pulse, under the mentioned pulse 
time duration, frequency and spot size, assured a 
good yield of the nanocondensates. 
The condensates were collected by copper 
grids overlaid with a carbon-coated collodion film 
for field emission transmission electron 
microscopy (TEM, FEI Tecnai G2 F20 at 200 kV) 
with selected area electron diffraction (SAED), 
and point-count energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) 
analysis at a beam size of 10 nm.  EDX analysis 
of local areas of interest was performed using K 
shell counts for Zn and O, and the principle of 
ratio method without absorption correction [12].  
Bright field images (BFI) taken by transmission 
electron microscopy (TEM) were used to study 
the size and morphology of the as-condensed 
particles. Lattice imaging coupled with 
two-dimensional Fourier transform and inverse 
transform was used to study the phase 
transformation and lattice mismatch of the 
individual condensates upon electron irradiation 
for a prolonged time period up to 60 min.  The 
d-spacings measured from SAED patterns were 
used for least-squares refinement of the lattice 
parameters during the process of phase 
transformation. 
 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The as-condensed particles are submicron in 
size and randomly oriented as indicated by TEM 
BFI (Fig. 1a) and ring diffractions in the SAED 
pattern (Fig. 2).  The particles consist of intimate 
intergrowths of Zn/W-ZnO phases with well 
developed {10 1 1} surface of W-ZnO [13].  
Point count EDX analysis (Fig. 1b) showed only 
O and Zn counts with negligible other impurities 
for such particles.  This indicates that tramp 
oxygen, but not other impurities, was present in 
the vacuum chamber and/or target during ablation 
without an external oxygen source. 
Fig. 2 compiles BFIs and ring SAED patterns 
of many Zn/W-ZnO nanocondensates prepared in 
vacuum under laser ablation deposition for 30 min. 
The representative Zn/W-ZnO condensates 
collected on the carbon-coated collodion film by 
laser ablation in vacuum are ca. 80 nm in size 
with well-developed facets, which were 
agglomerated as a close packed manner (Fig. 2a) 
in random orientation as indicated by ring SAED 
pattern (Fig. 2b). 
Laser ablation on Zn-Ni target caused the 
condensation of predominant Zn1-xNixO 
nanocrystals of W-type with minor R-type 
structure, which were in random orientation as 
indicated by ring diffractions in the SAED pattern 
 2
