中文摘要 
 
在本計畫，我們已經設計ㄧ個多重標示序列排整的視覺化軟體，稱為 Phylo-mLogo。
Phylo-mLogo 藉由核苷酸或氨基酸出現的頻率來計算序列排整後每個位置的差異與同源
性。不同於傳統的序列排整標示方法，我們不只顯示整體排整結果的序列標示，同時也利
用階層式的方式顯示在不同子集的序列標示。更進一步，Phylo-mLogo 提供使用者可以針對
某些在結構上或功能上重要的位置點進行單獨分析。使用 Phylo-mLogo，使用者可以同時觀
察巨觀多重序列排整的結果，同時也可以看到階層式的分析在不同分歧上同源序列標示的
異同。在分析不同子型 453 條流感病毒序列的結果，我們可以直接觀察到受到正向天擇壓
力位點，其氨基酸的變化情況。 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Sequence alignment and inference of the phylogenies is a standard procedure for analyzing 
biological sequences. Based on the reconstructed phylogenetic relationship, the evolutionary 
histories of sampled species, individuals, or strains can be inferred. Traditionally researchers are 
used to assigning numbers to all clades in the phylogenetic analysis of individual gene segments 
and using them to represent and compare genotypes across homologous genes or multiple species 
[1]. However, when the number of analyzed sequences is in the hundreds or thousands, this 
approach cannot distinguish the differences among sequences from different homologous genes 
[1, 2] or from different strains, such as viral sequences from different strains [3]. Moreover, the 
evolutionary changes of some specific sites, such as positively selected or antigenic sites, cannot 
be directly observed by global phylogenetic analysis, short of checking the detailed alignment 
results. Therefore, how to design efficient tools for biologists to analyze and visualize alignments 
of numerous sequences has become a challenge for computational biologists. 
 
In recent years there are several visualization tools of sequence alignments available in the public 
domain. Based on the visualization outputs, these tools can be divided into two categories: 
curve-based and sequence-logo-based. In the former category, tools, such as VISTA family  [4], 
PipMaker [5, 6], zPicture [7], and SinicView [8], were developed to visualize individual 
alignment results or to compare and evaluate assorted alignment results obtained by different 
tools. In the latter, tools such as WebLogo [9] and LogoBar [10], were developed, using sequence 
logos to graphically represent informative patterns of each individual site in a multiple sequence 
alignment. The sequence logos can assist the user to discover and identify conserved patterns 
from multiple sequence alignments [11]. The original work was first proposed by Schneider and 
Stephens (1990). Crooks et al. (2004) developed WebLogo [9] and performed an extension that 
incorporates additional features and options. To distinguish the gaps and poorly conserved 
positions, LogoBar [10] was proposed to display protein sequence logos including both amino 
acids and gaps. These sequence-logo-based tools are very useful to globally visualize consensus 
patterns in a multiple sequence alignment. However, when the number of aligned sequences is in 
several hundreds or thousands, some significant local tendencies of mutations cannot be observed 
directly from these global sequence-logo-based profiles. 
 
All of these tools can only generate a global sequence logo for one multiple sequence alignment 
and have no interactive user interface to allow the user to compare sequence logos in different 
clades simultaneously, to manipulate the comparison by various observation ranges and 
individual sites, or to generate a set of images or PDFs of multiple logos comparison. In the 
analysis of influenza virus evolution, for example, tracking the transitional changes of the amino 
acids at the epitope or receptor binding sites is very important, because their changes could cause 
antigenic drift [12], affect viral transcription [13], and conduce mammalian adaptation [14]. 
Furthermore, identifying genetic signatures of natural selection in coding or other functional 
regions can help researchers examine functional and evolutionary characteristics of alignment 
regions [15, 16]. To improve the capabilities of the above-mentioned tools and help researchers 
better understand influenza virus evolution or more easily identify genetic signatures we develop 
a multiple-logo alignment visualization tool, called Phylo-mLogo, which allows the user to 
selects the entropy option, all heights of the logos will be multiplied by their entropies. Below the 
logos in this View, the positions in the whole alignment are also marked so as to assist the user in 
comparison with others in the literature. 
 
In the Clade Logos View, the panels show different sequence logos of the aligned sequences 
belonging to selected clades. By observing the graphical results, it is much more intuitive and 
straightforward to judge and identify the selective or evolutionary trends of alignment results 
between different phylogeny, regionalization, or seasonality. When the user clicks the colored bar 
above the logo graphics, the Detailed Text Alignment View will automatically show the detailed 
alignment result in a colored text format where identical characters are shown. 
 
 
Figure 1 - The screenshot shows the user interface of Phylo-mLogo. 
 
Panel Control Section in Phylo-mLogo 
In the control section, there are three panels for selecting the sequence logos from root to clades 
and the sites from totality to partiality: Phylogeny/Relationship Viewing Control, Site Selection 
Control, and Viewing Range Control. Phylogeny/Relationship Viewing Control shows the 
relationship structure of aligned input sequences. The structure could be the phylogenetic tree for 
cross-species or different lineage sequences, the regionalization for polymorphic sequences, or 
the seasonalities for epidemic influenza virus sequences. Because showing a scaled tree usually 
takes up a lot of space on a screen, Phylogeny/Relationship Viewing Control in Phylo-mLogo 
demonstrates these relationships by a hierarchical file system browser, an unscaled tree, in which 
each node (a clade) represents a group of well-aligned sequences and the related child nodes will 
be expanded once the user clicks the parent node. As a file or directory name shown in the file 
browser, there is a name following each node given by the user or by built-in automatic 
assignment. When the user clicks the name part of either a parent or child node, the sequence 
logo associated with this node will be calculated and the result shown in the Clade Logos View. 
When the user clicks again the name part, which is a toggle switch, its sequence logo will become 
invisible. 
 
Figure 2A shows the sequence logos and their phylogenetic tree simultaneously. Different from 
other tools for tree visualization [23], Plylo-mLogo displays the phylogenetic tree by using a 
standard file browser because this representation is more compact than that of the traditional tree 
visualization of the original phylogenetic tree as shown in Fig. 2B. Thus, the user can click on 
different clades shown in various background colors, like selecting different folders in a file 
browser, to visualize the sequence logos of the alignment at different levels. 
 
Figure 2. Multiple-logo visualization of 453 avian HA isolates from 1976 to 2004 
 
Stevens et al. (2006) listed some conserved residues with the receptor binding domains of H1 and 
H5 serotypes that are implicated in receptor specificity, amino acid positions 183, 190, 193, 194, 
216, 221, 222, and 225-8 [24] to which the corresponding positions in our example are 205, 212, 
215, 216, 238, 243, 244, and 247-250, respectively. Then, we compared these sequence logos 
among different proteotypes. To avoid confusion in this example, we used the original positions 
shown in Stevens et al. (2006). As shown in Fig. 2C, the amino acids at residue sites 194, 225, 
and 228 are almost conserved across H1, H2, H5, H6, H8, H9, and H12 serotypes. If we only 
consider H1, H2, and H6, the same clades as H5 [3, 25], the amino acids at sites 183, 190, 194, 
225, 226, and 228 are almost the same across these serotypes. 
 
