 
2
中文摘要 
   本研究採用 Eulerian-Lagrangian 方法並搭配一個非線性紊態黏滯系數紊流模式進行載具顆粒紊流
模擬計算工作。本研究於第一年計畫中先採直接軌跡跟蹤(deterministic Lagrangian)法配合硬球碰撞模
式來模擬一個 Reτ=644之載具顆粒垂直平板紊流場中顆粒碰撞，研究發現就是對所測試之一般會被歸
屬於疏薄兩相流案例，亦存在可觀之顆粒碰撞結果。本第二年計畫發展一個 DSMC (direct simulation 
Monte Carlo) 隨機顆粒碰撞方法並於相同顆粒負載紊流場中測試，模擬結果顯示 DSMC 方法和 
deterministic Lagrangian方法所得結果相當一致，證明所發展 DSMC方法之正確性。 
關鍵詞 ：載具顆粒流、歐氏—拉氏方法、隨機軌距跟蹤法 
 
Abstract 
A stochastic Lagrangian modeling approach, which follows basically the direct simulation 
Monte Carlo method to account for the particle-particle collisions, is developed. The turbulence 
characteristic is simulated using a currently developed low-Reynolds-number nonlinear 
eddy-viscosity model. A wall-bounded turbulent particle-laden flow in which the experimental data 
is available is chosen as the test problem. Results obtained with the deterministic method for 
particle-particle collisions are used for validating the developed stochastic Lagrangian model. Good 
agreement between the predictions obtained with the deterministic and DSMC methods is achieved. 
 
Keywords: particle-laden flows, Eulerian-Lagrangian approach, DSMC method 
 
  
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Based on the classification defined by 
Crowe et al. [1], a dilute flow is a flow in 
which the particle motion is controlled by the 
surface and body forces on the particle. In a 
dense flow, the particle motion is controlled 
primarily by particle-particle interaction. Tsuji 
[2] further classified the particle-laden flows 
into three categories, in view of the extent of 
particle-particle interaction, as follows. 
1. Collision-free flow (dilute case) 
2. Collision-dominated flow (non-dense case) 
3. Contact-dominated flow (dense case) 
Sommerfeld [3] suggested a following 
quantitative criterion to distinguish the dilute 
and dense regimes of particle-laden flows: 
 τP / τC < 1, dilute case 
and  τP / τC > 1, dense case       (1) 
where τP is the particle response time and τC is 
the mean free time between collisions.. 
 There are two main approaches in 
modeling particle- particle collisions under the 
frame of Eulerian-Lagrangian formulation. The 
most straightforward approach is the 
deterministic method in which the search of 
particle collision pairs is made deterministically. 
The other is the stochastic particle-particle 
collision model in which collisions are treated 
probabilistically. Computations of the 
non-dense (i.e. medium particle number density) 
particle-laden flows using the stochastic 
collision models are cost effective. The 
Tsuji/Tanaka group [4-6] applied the direct 
simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) method, 
which was originally developed for the study of 
molecular dynamics by Bird [7], to the studies 
of the phenomena of cluster formation and the 
flow instability induced by particles in the 
non-dense particle-laden laminar flows. 
 An available RANS turbulence model in 
association with the DSMC method is 
introduced and tested with the particle-laden 
channel flow experimentally conducted by 
Kulick et al. [9]. The performance of the 
proposed two-phase turbulent model 
accounting for the particle-particle collisions 
will be validated by comparing its computed 
results with both those obtained using the same 
  
4
particle collision pair. First, all particles are 
advanced to the next time step ( t t+ Δ ) through 
solving the equations of motion without taking 
into account the inter-particle collisions. 
Secondly, the occurrence of inter-particle 
collisions within the time step tΔ  is examined 
by using either the deterministic approach or 
the stochastic approach in this study. When the 
collision occurs, only the particle velocity and 
angular velocity are updated to the values after 
the collision, which are obtained by the 
hard-sphere model with the assumption of 
spherical particles. After a particle collision, 
the post-collision velocities of the colliding pair 
are calculated using the hard sphere model [17] 
with the assumption of spherical particles. The 
coefficients of restitution and friction are set to 
be 0.95 and 0.4, respectively, in the 
computations. Wall roughness is neglected and 
the specular wall-particle collision model is 
used in the modeling. 
 
4. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
 
 The particle number density of the 
investigated particle-laden flow (consisting of 
15,900 real particles) is rather low. The 
stochastic Lagrangian model was usually not 
recommended to model such a dilute flow [10]. 
Nevertheless, the computations using both the 
deterministic and DSMC methods are 
purposely performed in this study. The data 
collecting time interval (T2-T1) used in the 
statistics is set equal to 10TM where TM = max 
( k / ε ) in the flow field. Their results of the 
probability distribution of sampled contact 
angle and the distributions of the inter-particle 
collision frequency and void fraction are shown 
in Figs. 1a and 1b, respectively. The probability 
of the sampled contact angle θ obtained with 
the DSMC method follows a sinusoidal 
distribution as does the theoretical result. 
Furthermore, the probability of the contact 
angle determined with the deterministic method 
also exhibits the same sinusoidal distribution. 
Both the lateral distributions of the 
inter-particle collision frequency and void 
fraction, obtained separately with the DSMC 
and deterministic methods, are well coincident 
too as shown in Fig. 1b. Since the values of 
/P Cτ τ  shown in Fig. 1c are larger than unity, 
the effect of particle-particle collisions cannot, 
thus, be ignored in the present problem 
according to the criterion indicated in Eq. (1). 
The predicted streamwise component of mean 
particle velocity and rms of Pu′  and Pv′  are 
presented in Fig. 2. In addition, Fig. 2 also 
presents the results without considering the 
particle-particle collisions (namely, 2-way 
coupling [1]). Note that different scales of 
1/ 2
2( )Pu
+′  and 1/ 22( )Pv +′  are used in Fig. 2. 
Clearly, the results predicted separately with 
the DSMC and deterministic methods differ 
slightly each other, whereas the results 
predicted without considering the 
particle-particle collisions differ much from 
those with considering the particle-particle 
collisions as expected from the results of Fig. 
1c. 
 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
 
 For validating the developed stochastic 
Lagrangian model, the results obtained with the 
deterministic method are used to serve as a 
comparison basis. It has been demonstrated that 
the developed stochastic particle-particle 
collision model predicts almost the same 
particle properties and collision frequency in 
the considered wall-bounded particle-laden 
flow associated with low particle number 
density as the deterministic inter-particle 
collision model does. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
1. C.T. Crowe, & T.R. Troutt, J.N. Chung, 
Annu. Rev. Fluid Mech., vol. 28, 11-43, 1996. 
2. Y. Tsuji, Powder Technology, vol. 113, 
278-286, 2000. 
3. M. Sommerfeld, Int. J. Multiphase Flow, vol. 
27, 1829-1858, 2001. 
4. T. Tanaka, S. Yonemura, & K. Kribayashi, Y. 
Tsuji, Trans. Jpn. Soc. Mech. Eng., Ser. B, 
vol. 59, 2982-2989, 1993. 
5. S. Yonemura, T. Tanaka, & Y. Tsuji, Trans. 
Jpn. Soc. Mech. Eng., Ser. B, vol. 61, 
3671-3678, 1995. 
6. T. Tanaka, S. Yonemura, & K. Kiribayashi, Y. 
Tsuji, JSME Int. J., Ser. B, vol. 39, 239-245, 
1996. 
7. G.A. Bird, Molecular Gas Dynamics & the 
Direct Simulation of Gas Flows, Clarendon, 
「先進流體/固體實驗力學科學與技術國際研討會」出國報告 
 
報告人：張克勤 
單位：成功大學航空太空工程學系 
 
一、參加會議經過及與會心得 
    先進流體 / 固體實驗力學科學與技術國際研討會 (International 
Symposium on Advanced Fluid/Solid Science and Technology in Experimental 
Mechanics)是由日本實驗力學學會(The Japanese Society for Experimental 
Mechanics)所主辦，並由 The Japanese Society for Multiphase Flow (Japan)、
The Society for Experimental Mechanics, Inc. (USA)和 The British Society for 
Strain Measurement (UK)協辦，於日本北海道大學舉行，會期為 9 月 11 日至
14 日。主辦單位「日本實驗力學學會」是於 2001 年由原來之 Japan Society 
for Photoelasticity 為核心重新擴大組成的一個專業學會，原有之學會僅專注
於材料強度方面之實驗固體力學領域，而重新擴大組成之學會則涵蓋不同
的應用力學領域，包括流體力學、熱工程(thermal engineering)、生醫工程
(medical engineering)、生物力學(biomechanics)、結構及土木工程(construction 
and civil engineering)等等。本次國際學術研討會為新學會自 2001 年改組完
成後首次以新的宗旨為標的而召開之會議，因此深為日本實驗力學學會
(JSEM)所重視。JSEM 期望這個系列國際會議能促成在此等領域之科學及工
    本人之論文「Guiding Plates on Wind Uplift of a Solar Collector Model」
(與成大航太中心鍾光民研究員及兩位本人所指導學生陳俊谷、吳善融共同
完成)被安排在第二天(9 月 12 日)上午發表。此外，本人亦被大會要求主持
當天之一個論文發表場次。 
本次大會共安排有三個邀請演講，分別為： 
1. 「Simultaneous Visualization of Object Behavior and Its Surrounding Flow 
Field」，由日本 Kinki University 之 G. Matsui 教授演講。演講中介紹利用
一個由兩台高速攝影機及一台 PIV 組成的 Moving Object – Flow Image 
Analyzer (MOFIA)來進行移動物體及週遭流體運動之實驗量測，這個方
法對本人正想進行之研究工作，或許會有相當程度之應用性，回國後將
指定一位本人指導之博士研究生深入瞭解 MOFIA 這個新的量測技術及
其應用性。 
2. 「Nano- and Pico- Meter Displacement Measurement by Phase Analysis of 
Fringe Patterns Obtained by Optical Methods 」，由日本 Wakayama 
University 之 Y. Morimoto 教授演講。 
3. 「Modeling of Steelmaking Processes」由瑞典 KTH 公司 Division of 
Applied Process Metallurgy 之 P. Jonsson 博士演講。 
    或許是這個會議主辦單位 JSEM 之前身性質關係，有相當數量和煉鋼
製程相關之流體力學論文於本次會議上發表，這亦為本次會議之一大特色。 
 
International Symposium on Advanced Fluid/Solid Science and Technology in Experimental Mechanics, 11-14 Sept 2006, Sapporo, Japan
GUIDING PLATES ON WIND UPLIFT OF A SOLAR COLLECTOR MODEL  
K. Chung1, K. Chang2, C. Chen2 and S. Wu 2
1 Aerospace Science and Technology Research Center, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan, ROC 
2 Department of Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan, ROC 
ABSTRACT
One of the key issues affecting the promotion of solar 
water heaters in Taiwan is the severe typhoon impact each 
year. An experimental study was conducted to investigate 
the wind uplift characteristic of a commercial solar water 
heater.  A guiding plate with different heights and 
orientations with respect to the wind direction was 
adopted. A cavity formed between the guiding plate and 
the flat panel has a significant effect on the longitudinal 
and lateral pressure distributions. The wind uplift 
coefficient could be decreased up to 62% with a guiding 
plate normal to the wind direction.  
INTRODUCTION 
Solar water heater has been commercialized during the 
last two decades in Taiwan. The total installed area of 
solar collectors was more than 1.3 millions square meters 
[1]. Most of solar water heaters, which were installed on 
the flat roof of buildings, are mainly used by the domestic 
sector for hot water production (about 97 %). However, 
Taiwan is situated in the prevalent typhoon track in the 
northwestern Pacific. The severity of a typhoon is 
associated with the wind strength and the moisture content. 
In 2005, Taiwan experienced an above normal frequency 
of severe typhoon hits. Numerous solar water heaters were 
damaged. For promotion of solar water heaters in Taiwan, 
reduction of wind uplift of solar collectors is essentially 
required. 
For the aerodynamic characteristics of solar collectors and 
supporting structures, Radu et al. [2, 3] conducted the wind 
tunnel tests (up to 20 m/s) to investigate the characteristics 
of steady-state wind loads of solar collectors in clusters on 
the flat roofs of five-story buildings in a boundary layer 
wind tunnel. They found that the wind loads on solar 
collectors are significantly reduced by the sheltering effects 
of the first row of solar collectors and of the building itself. 
For an isolated solar collector model, an experimental study 
was conducted by Chung et al. [4], Fig. 1. It is known that 
high suction occurs near the front edge. The negative 
pressure action decreases drastically and approaches to a 
more moderate level at further downstream locations on 
the upper surface. The positive pressure action is not 
significant and increases moderately close to the rear edge 
on the lower surface. From the differential pressure 
distribution  ( ), it is clear that the 
localized loads are significant near the front edge and 
reach the minimum at about one-third region. At further 
downstream locations, the increasing loads occur close to 
the rear edge. Thus to reduce the aerodynamic load of a 
solar water collector, a guiding plate or lifting the model 
might be adopted. A preliminary study of guiding plate 
effect was also conducted by Chung et al. [4]. It is known 
that reduction in wind uplift is associated with the 
orientation of guiding plate.  However, the geometric 
effect of guiding plate needs to be further addressed. The 
present study is manly focused on the height and 
orientation of guiding plates on the characteristics of wind 
uplift of a solar collector model. 
  f qpp ul / pC'
X/c
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
'C
p
0
1
2
20
30
40
50
V
C
p
-2
-1
0
1
Hollow  symbol: upper surface
solid symbol: lower surface
Figure 1 Longitudinal pressure distributions, Baseline case 
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
The experiments were conducted with the low speed wind 
tunnel at Aerospace Science and Technology Research 
Center, National Cheng Kung University (ASTRC/ 
NCKU). The tunnel is a closed-loop type. The facility 
consists of a 450 HP fan (Flakt, FAC-6-280-10-12), an 
auxiliary compressor for pneumatically controllable blade 
pitch and the tunnel. There are a honeycomb and five 
screens, and the contraction ratio is nine. The constant-
area test section is 120 cm by 180 cm and 270 cm long. 
The maximum speed is up to 70 m/s, which is evaluated 
by the differential pressure between the inlet and the exit 
of contraction section [5]. The wind speed for the present 
tests was from 20 to 50 m/s. 
For the baseline case, a 60% scaled commercial system 
(a flat panel-120 cm x 60 cm; a cylinder-27 cm in 
diameter and 70 cm in length) was fabricated. It is noted 
that the present investigation is mainly to study the strong 
wind strength on a solar collector. Thus the model was 
-81-
International Symposium on Advanced Fluid/Solid Science and Technology in Experimental Mechanics, 11-14 Sept 2006, Sapporo, Japan
Based on the above observation, a guiding plate normal 
to the wind direction (D = 90-deg) has a more positive 
effect in reduction of wind uplift. The differential pressure 
distributions for all three test cases (h* = 0.70, 0.35 and 
0.20) are shown in Fig. 5. A remarkably uniform 
differential pressure coefficients are observed up to one-
third forward region for h* = 0.70. With decreasing h*, the 
region of flattening  is diminished. It is also observed 
that the location of peak  moves downstream with 
increasing h*, e.g. X/c | 0.28, 0.32 and 0.68 for h* = 0.20, 
0.35 and 0.70 respectively. As mentioned above, this might 
correspond to the impingement of shear layer from the tip 
of guiding plate on the lower surface of flat panel. 
Downstream of the shear layer impingement location, 
 is roughly the same for h* = 0.20 and 0.35. This 
indicates that the influence of a guiding plate on the 
differential pressure distribution or wind uplift is directly 
coupled with the height of a guiding plate.  
pC'
pC'
pC'
X/c
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
'C
p
-1
0
1
2
3
0.70
0.35
0.20
h*
Figure 5 Differential pressure distributions 
(V = 43 m/s, D = 90-deg) 
The present research is only for the investigation of an 
isolated solar collector model. Uniformity of lateral flow 
(or three dimensional effect) on the upper and lower 
surfaces of the flat panel, such as the simulation of solar 
collectors in parallel, would be important for the future 
study. Examples of lateral pressure distribution at h* = 
0.35 and D = 90-deg are shown in Fig. 6. For the baseline 
case, mild pressure variation is observed on the lower 
surface while an U-shaped lateral pressure distribution can 
be seen on the upper surface. This clearly indicates the 
footprints of the side-edge vortices, in which higher 
pressures occur near the centerline and the magnitude 
decreases with increasing distance away from the 
centerline. With the guiding plate normal to the wind 
direction, it can be seen that the pressure coefficients on 
the lower and upper surfaces are roughly the same at all 
test speeds. However, the pressure variation is diminished. 
It implies that the guiding plate reduces the strength of 
side-edge vortices. Furthermore, the lateral pressure 
distributions obtained with various orientations of the 
guiding plate at h* = 0.35 and V = 43 m/s are shown in 
Fig. 7. In general, orientation of the guiding plate has a 
minor influence on the lateral pressure distributions. 
However, there are lower pressure coefficients near the 
center region (y/w | r0.1) and the level of pressure 
coefficient decreases slightly with increasing D on the 
lower surface. On the upper surface, it is visible that the 
pressure coefficients near the center region are fairly 
uniform. Pressure variation in the lateral direction is also 
observed. For D = 90-deg, an unsymmetrical pressure 
distribution and less negative pressure action can be seen. 
This postulates that a guiding plate normal to the wind 
direction has more pronounced effect on the reduction of 
wind uplift of the flat panel.  
C
p
,l
-1
0
26
34
43
y/w
-0.4 -0.2 0.0 0.2 0.4
-2
-1
0
C
p
,u
baseline
V
Figure 6 Lateral pressure distributions 
      (h* = 0.35, D = 90-deg) 
Furthermore, it is of interest to understand the h* effect 
on the lateral pressure distribution. The pressure 
coefficients on the lower and upper surfaces for all the 
three guiding plates and baseline cases are shown in Fig. 8. 
For h* = 0.20 and 0.35, the levels of pressure coefficient 
on the lower and upper surfaces near the centerline are 
slightly lower than that of the baseline case. Less negative 
pressure action on the upper surface is observed near the 
side edges. This indicates that the strength of side-edge 
vortices decreases with increasing height of a guiding 
plate. For h* = 0.70, the measurement location on the 
lower surface is within the cavity formed between the 
guiding plate and flat panel. Suction in stead of 
compression is observed on the lower surface, and a fairly 
flattening pressure distribution can be seen on the upper 
surface. This implies that the side-edge vortices are 
attenuated at the measurement locations. 
-83-
