 2 
 
Fig. 1. Different valuations of quality [11]. 
 
 
ntents at the same time, and they may 
only interest in part of a whole learning 
content. More recently, many digital 
learning contents consisted of huge 
continuing presentation and the 
explanations in detail for contents are 
not attached. Such these contents 
couldn’t be used to provide the extra 
contents to the learners and reused by 
other authoring tools and content 
management systems. In this paper, we 
concerns how to realize personal 
learning through recommendation 
services and share learning objects each 
other  among learning platforms. A 
novel weighted-based recommendation 
mechanism is proposed to develop the 
interactive e-learning system with 
learning content recommendation 
services. This interactive e-learning 
platform satisfy that the system provides 
the adaptive learning materials to 
different learners in shorter time, and (2) 
learning contents consists of smaller 
learning objects based on SCROM 
standards to achieve the purpose of 
share and reusability. 
 
2 Related Work 
Nowadays adaptive algorithms esta- 
blished by information recommendation 
systems can be classified into three 
categories. The first category is 
traditional data mining that finds 
association rules between a set of 
co-purchased items. The quality of 
association rules is commonly evaluated 
by looking at their support and 
confidence [1]. The second category is 
collaborative filtering. It will identifies 
users whose tastes are similar to those of 
a given user and recommends items the 
have liked. The entire process of 
collaborative filter recommendation has 
consisted of representation, neighbor- 
hood formation, and recommendation 
generation [9]. The last category is 
content-based filtering that the features 
of items can be useful in recommending 
items. It assumes that the degree of 
relevance of an item can be determined 
by its content. The content-based 
recommendation approach tries to 
recommend items similar to those a 
given user has liked in the past [11]. 
Many noticeable research results on 
recommending algorithms have been 
presented. However, most of these 
algorithms have mostly designed for 
E-commerce applications. Additionally, 
these recommending algorithms must 
depend on statistical computing to 
evaluate what is of value for users. That 
implies the longer computing time will 
be occurred. The learning object 
recommendation service often 
dynamically provides adaptive learning 
contents to different learners in real-time. 
Therefore, these approaches are not 
suitably used in interactive e-learning 
systems. 
 4 
ing object; mi represents the number of 
values for the ith characteristics. WAiVj 
indicates a degree of learner’s interest in 
the jth value of the ith characteristic. For 
instance, a learner is interested in the 
class of linux concept, style of applied 
material, difficulty of average and 
learning slowly. Hence, this learner may 
is represented as the vector (0, 0, 0.65, 0, 
0, 0, 0.55, 0, 0.7, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0.83, 0, 0, 0). 
3-3. Recommendation function 
If learning object representation and 
learner profile representation are 
prepared, the system will execute the 
recommendation function to calculate 
recommendation score for each learner. 
The learning object with highest 
recommendation score is firstly 
recommended to learner. The design of 
recommendation function based on the 
weighted principle is by multiplication 
of learning object representation and 
learner profile representation. The 
recommendation function is shown in 
Fig. 3. For instance, the value of 
learning object representation and leaner 
profile representation are (0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 
1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1) and (0, 0, 0, 
0.475, 0, 0, 0.515, 0, 0.69, 0, 0.27, 0, 0, 
0, 0, 0, 0.4), respectively. Thus, the 
recommendation score is 2.35. 
4. Conclusions 
Researches on personal learning have 
gained more and more attention thanks 
to the explosive use of e-learning 
environment. However, most recomm- 
ending mechanisms must depend on 
statistical computing to evaluate what is 
of value for users. That implies the 
longer computing time will be occurred. 
The learning object recommendation 
service often dynamically provides 
adaptive learning contents to different 
learners in shorter time. Therefore, this 
paper proposes the weighted-based 
recommendation mechanism to develop 
the interactive e-learning system with 
learning content recommendation 
services. From the experiments results, 
it’s justified to show its ability in 
furnishing effective personal recomm- 
endation services. 
 
References 
[1] Agrawal, T.I. and Swami, A. 1993. 
Mining Association Rules between Set of 
Items in Large Database. Proceedings of the 
ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management 
of Data. pp.207-216. 
[2] Berners-Lee T., Cailliau, R., Groff, T.F. 
and Pollermann, B. 1992. World-Wide Web: 
The Information Universe. Electron. New. 
Res. Appl. Policy 1(2):52-58. 
[3] Goldberg, D., Nichols, D., Oki, B. and 
Terry, D. 1992. Using Collaborative 
Filtering to Weave an Information Tapestry. 
Commun. ACM 35(12):61-70. 
[4] Kowalski, G.J. and Maybury, M.T. 2000. 
Information Storage and Retrieval System: 
Theory and Implementation. Second 
Edition, Kluwer Academic Publishers. 
[5] Lanquillon, C. 1999. Information 
Filtering in Changing Domains. 
Proceedings of the International Joint 
Conference on Artificial Intelligence. pp. 
538-544. 
[6] Oard, D.W. and Marchionini, G. 1996. A 
Conceptual Framework for Text Filtering. 
Technique Report CS-TR3643, University 
of Maryland, College Park, Mater Thesis. 
[7] Pinkerton, B. 2000. Webcrawler:Finding 
what people want. Ph.D. dissertation, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA. 
[8] Resnick, P., Iacovou, N., Suchak, M., 
Bergstorm, P., and Riedl, J. 1994. 
Grouplens: An Open Architecture for 
Collaborative Filtering of Netnews. 
Proceedings of ACM Conference on 
Computer Supported Cooperative Work, 
Chapel Hill, NC, pp.175-186. 
[9] Sarwar, B., Karypis, G., Konstan, J. and 
Riedl, J. 2000. Analysis of Recommendation 
Algorithms for E-Commerce. Proceedings 
of the 2nd ACM conference on Electronic 
Commerce. pp. 158-166. 
[10] Turban, E., Lee, J., King, D., and Chung, 
H.M. 2000. Electronic Commerce: A 
Managerial Perspective. Prentice Hall, 
Englewood, Cliffs, NJ. 
[11] Wei, Y.Z., Moreau L. and Jennings N.R. 
2005. A Market-Based Approach to 
Recommender Systems. ACM Trans. 
Inform. Syst. 23(3):227-266. 
 
第 2 頁，共 3 頁 
 
Computing and Virtual Organization System、Service Oriented Architectures in Computing 
and Communication、High Performance Autonomous Computing、 Internet and Web 
services、Emergence, Self-Organization and Adaptation 與 Open Dynamic Multi-Agent 
Systems。 
(三)第三天(7/24)上午 8點 30分到 9點 30分由來自奧地利維也納科技大學教授 Schahram Dustdar
發表主題演說「Research Challenges in Designing Complex Autonomic Service-Oriented 
Systems」。主要是在討論面對複雜的自動網頁服務系統所面臨的挑戰，並提出創新的機制處
理未來動態的互動程序，以及 self-organizing與 context-aware services。從 10點起大會進入
正式議程，第一天的論文發表共分 6 個 sessions 分別是 Distributed Intelligence and 
Systems、Self-Organization and Self-Management in Distributed and Grid Computing、High 
Performance Autonomous Networking、Wireless Networks and Mobile Communication and 
Computing、Self-Organization and Self-Management in Communications與 Industrial System 
Applications。 
 
二、與會心得 
參加此次的國際會議，收獲良多。除了吸收新知增廣見聞外，還能當面與眾多研究學者
交換意見。當場可以看到許多學者專心的聽講，努力發問參與討論。今年的成果發表上
以中國大陸的比例佔較高，而相關的研究題目也具有創意與生活性。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
(無) 
 
四、建議 
本人認為應該多加鼓勵國內學者專家積極參與國際會議，加速科技新知的互動與交流，
增廣國際見聞，增強學術與研究的創新。在與會過程中，思考以下幾點建議可做為國內
舉辦大型國際會議之參考：(1)提供足夠的資訊，包括提供地圖、做好會場標識，包括行
進方向、研討地點、進行內容等。(2)介紹適當的住宿地點。(3)謹慎挑選單元主持人，其
能帶動整體研討氣氛。主持人應對每個演講內容概略了解。(4)會議的時程安排要相當謹
慎，應儘量避免相近的領域在同一時段的不同場地，以免有人需要放棄其中一場。 
 
 
