計畫中文摘要： 
 
關鍵詞： 功能性磁振造影、血氧濃度相依性、針灸、轉換函數。 
 
本計畫延續過去國科會計畫(95-2221-E-005-006)中，我們正在研究功能性磁振造影
(fMRI)在針灸中的轉換函數(Transfer Function)。針灸脈衝響應的重要性在於針灸的神經反應
通常可分為兩部份：「得氣」與「疼痛」。而中醫學界一般均認為得氣現像具有較常的持久
性，也就是在針取出後，得氣現像仍然會存在一段時間，而疼痛感則很快就會消失。在過
去的研究中，雖然對針灸的腦部激發區域已有相當的著墨，但是對得氣的長時間效應並沒
有任何研究。由線性系統的角度觀之，得氣的長時間效應可以視為其脈衝響應的尾部較長。
換言之，相較於其他的神經刺激，得氣的轉換函數(Transfer Function)應有較大的低頻響應。
基於以上的原因，我們認為研究 fMRI 中針灸的轉換函數有其重要性。本研究中，我們先
以一個心理物理試驗測試針灸在主觀感受上延遲的程度。再進行功能性試驗，每位受試者
分別以針刺左腳衝陽穴為刺激進行三次塊狀(Block-Design)功能性掃瞄，每次功能性掃瞄包
含兩個開關(On/Off)試驗，再將每位受試者所得的六個試驗進行分析比較，實驗結果證實得
氣現像確實具有長時間效應。由此結果可證實得氣的轉換函數確實有較大的低頻響應。 
一、 報告內容 
1. 前言 
近年來，以 fMRI 為工具對針灸在腦部中所對應的激發部位的研究已有許多成果。
不過仍沒有人對於針灸的脈衝響應進行研究。脈衝響應對針灸的重要性是因為針灸的神
經反應可分為兩部份：「得氣」與「疼痛」，這兩種反應的脈衝響應的不同，與針灸理論
有相當重要的關係。就中醫而言，得氣才是達到治療效果的根本原因。傳統的中醫理論
認為，在拔針之後，疼痛會快速消失，但得氣則會有較為持久的效應。不過，過去 fMRI
在針灸方面的研究均集中在激發區域的研究，對於得氣的長效現象，並沒有任何研究。 
由線性系統的角度來看，得氣的長效現象可以看成是脈衝響應的緩慢衰減。換言
之，與其他神經現象比較，得氣的轉換函數應該具有較明顯的低頻響應。因此，我們相
信測量針灸在 fMRI 中的脈衝響應，也就是轉換函數是一件重要的研究工作。 
2. 研究目的 
過去在 fMRI 中測量轉換函數是以單一脈衝進行激發[1, 2]。若從通訊理論來看，較
好的測量轉換函數的方法應該是以隨機信號(pseudonoise signal, PN signal)激發[3]，而非
單一脈衝。這是因為 PN 信號有較大的平均功率，因此可獲得較大的信號雜訊比(SNR)。
因此，我們認為應採用類似通訊理論中的方法來測量 fMRI 中的轉換函數。我們的方法
是改變 fMRI 實驗中的激發信號開關週期間的時間，藉此產生不規則的激發輸入。因此，
一個 PN 信號就輸入到大腦之中。我們再使用最小均方差法(Minimum Mean Square Error, 
MMSE)來估測針灸的轉換函數，並決定得氣的脈衝響應是否具有較慢的衰減時間。 
3. 文獻探討 
以 fMRI 研究針灸是由 Alavi [4] 與 Cho [5]開始的。Cho 等人的研究是第一個指出
穴位 UB67(至陰)對視覺神經的激發與以光源照射眼睛的效果相同。之後，Lee 等人[6]
與 Li 等人[7]也得到與 Cho 類似的發現。Li 等人[8]也發現與語言相關的穴位 SJ8(三陽絡)
與 Du15(啞門)會產生相同的反應。Yoo 等人[9] 則發現穴位 PC6(內關)與暈炫有關。Yan
等人 [10] 則研究穴位 LI4(合谷)與 Liv3(太衝)。也有幾個關於麻醉與針灸的研究
[11-17]。不過，雖然有這麼多穴位與大腦激發區域的研究，目前並沒有與轉換函數相關
的研究。 
4. 研究方法 
本計畫中，我們對每位自願受試者進行兩組實驗。第一組實驗是由受試者主觀評估
的針灸後的持續效應。第二組則是實際的 fMRI 實驗。每位受試者皆在左腳的衝陽穴進
行針灸。每次掃瞄包含兩組開關測驗，第一組在掃瞄前並沒有進行任何針灸，第二組則
在掃瞄前，先對受試者進行針灸。每位受試者共有六次測驗，其中三次屬於第一組，另
三次屬於第二組，我們再比較這六次測驗的結果。 
 
 
三、 參考文獻 
[1] R. Buxton, L. Frank, “A model for the coupling between cerebral blood flow and oxygen 
metabolism during neural stimulation,” Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism, vol. 
17, pp. 64-72, 1997. 
[2] G. H. Glover, “Deconvolution of impulse response in event-related BOLD fMRI,” 
NeuroImage, vol. 9, pp. 416-429, 1999. 
[3] B. Sklar, Digital Communications: Fundamentals and Applications, 2nd Ed., Prentice-Hall, 
New Jersey, 2001. 
[4] A. Alavi, P. LaRiccia, A. Sadek, A. Newberg, L. Lee, H. Reich, et. al., “Neuroimaging of 
acupuncture in patients with chronic pain,” Journal of Alternative and Complementary 
Medicine, vol. 3, pp. S41-S53, 1997. 
[5] Z. Cho, S. Chung, J. Jones, J. Park, H. Park, H. Lee, et al., “New findings of the correlation 
between acupoints and corresponding brain cortices using functional MRI,” Proceedings of 
National Academy of Sciences of USA, vol. 95, pp. 2670-2673, 1998. 
[6] H. Lee, H.-J. Park, S. A. Kim, H. J. Lee, M. J. Kim, C.-J. Kim, et. al., “Acupuncture 
stimulation of the vision-related acupoint (Bl-67) increases c-Fos expression in the visual 
cortex of binocularly deprived rat pups,” American Journal of Chinese Medicine, vol. 30, pp. 
379-385, 2002. 
[7] G. Li, R. R. F. Cheung, Q.-Y. Ma, E. S. Yang, “Visual cortical activations on fMRI upon 
stimulation of the vision-implicated acupoints,” Brain Imaging, vol. 14, pp. 669-673, 2003. 
[8] G. Li, H.-L. Liu, R. T. F. Cheung, Y.-C. Hung, K. K. K. Wong, G. G. X. Shen, et. al., “An 
fMRI study comparing brain activation between word generation and electrical stimulation of 
language-implicated acupoints,” Human Brain Mapping, vol. 18, pp. 233-238, 2003. 
[9] S. Yoo, E. The, R. Blinder, F. Jolesz, “Modulation of cerebellar activities by acupuncture 
stimulation: evidence from fMRI study,” NeuroImage, vol. 22, pp. 932-940, 2004. 
[10] B. Yan, K. Li, J. Xu, W. Wang, K. Li, H. Liu, et. al., “Acupoint-specific fMRI patterns in 
human brain,” Neuroscience Letters, vol. 383, pp. 236-240, 2005. 
[11] M. T. Wu, J. C. Hsieh, J. Xiong, C. F. Yang, H. B. Pan, Y. C. Chen, et. al., “Central nervous 
pathway for acupuncture stimulation: localization of processing with functional MR imaging 
of the brain: preliminary experience,” Radiology, vol. 212, pp. 133-141, 1999. 
[12] K. K. S. Hui, J. Liu, N. Makris, R. L. Gollub, A. J. W. Chen, C. I. Moore, et. al., 
“Acupuncture modulates the limbic system and subcortical gray structures of the human brain: 
evidence from fMRI studies in normal subjects,” Human Brain Mapping, vol. 9. pp. 13-25, 
2000. 
[13] J. Kong, L. Ma, R. Gollub, J. Wei, X. Yang, D. Li, et. al, “A pilot study of function magnetic 
resonace imaging of the brain during manual and electroacupuncture stimulation of 
acupuncture point (LI-4 Hegu) in normal subjects reveals differential brain activation 
between methods, ” Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, vol. 8, pp. 411-419, 
2002. 
[14] M. T. Wu, J. M. Sheen, K. H. Chuang, P. Yang, S. L. Chin, C. Y. Tsai, et. al., “Neuronal 
specificity of acupuncture response: a fMRI study with electroacupuncture,” NeuroImage, vol. 
 表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          98 年  10 月  23 日 
報告人姓名  廖俊睿 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
國立中興大學電機工程學系 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
民國 98 年 5 月 25 日至 
民國 98 年 5 月 28 日 
日本京都 
本會核定
補助文號
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)第十三屆國際電機電子學會消費電子國際論壇 
 (英文) The 13th IEEE International Symposium on Consumer Electronics 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 直接 PCF:802.11 PCF 與 HCCA 的一個強健直接連結協定 
 (英文) Direct PCF: A Robust Direct Link Protocol for 802.11 PCF and HCCA
由於會議期間正值日本關西新型流感暴發之際，因此已行文國科會准予免參加，會議主
辦單位亦因同一理由，准予免參加，被接受論文如附件，仍然收錄於論文集中。 
 
 
Figure 1. A PCF frame sequence. The frames appeared at the top of the 
timeline is from AP to STA and the frames appeared at the bottom of the 
timeline is from STA to AP. 
and determines whether the recipient is within the BSS. If the 
answer is yes, AP informs the two STAs to start direct 
communication and monitors the data exchanges between the 
two STAs. If the AP finds that the direct link does not work 
properly, AP immediately informs the two STAs to stop direct 
communication and return to relay frames between the two 
STAs. This relieves STA the duty of initiating direct link and 
provides a quick error recovery mechanism. Therefore, DPCF 
solves the two problems mentioned before and is a good 
alternative to DLS. 
This paper is organized as follows. In the second section, 
we reviewed the related works in 802.11 direct link 
communication. In the third section, we gave an overview on 
the relevant parts in 802.11, i.e., PCF, HCCA, and DLS. In the 
fourth section, we described our DPCF protocol. In the fifth 
section, we presented our simulation results. Finally, in the 
sixth section, we concluded. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
Naraghi-Pour et. al. [3] first proposed a direct link protocol 
in WLAN. However, the WLAN they considered was very 
different from 802.11 WLAN. In their analysis, the uplink and 
the downlink were frequency division multiplexed and the 
MAC protocol for the uplink was slotted ALOHA protocol. 
For direct link communication, they reserved a fixed number of 
time slots in the downlink and direct link communication must 
occur in these pre-assigned time slots. Although their approach 
cannot be applied in 802.11 WLAN and they did not specify 
the method to determine when to setup the direct link, the 
concept has been laid out. 
Choi [4,5] proposed a direct link protocol for 802.11 PCF. 
Similar to Naraghi-Pour’s concept, they divided a polling 
period into several sub-periods. Each sub-period was again 
divided into two intervals: normal polling intervals (PI) and 
direct communication polling intervals (DCPI). Direct link 
communication occurred only in DCPI. In order to determine 
when and how to setup direct links, AP collected connectivity 
and interference information among the STAs. They proposed 
three different polling methods to collect neighborhood 
information and schedule direct link communication. The first 
polling method was the “sequential polling method” [6]. The 
second polling method was the “simultaneous polling method” 
[4] which allowed multiple polling to be performed 
simultaneously. The third polling method was the combination 
of the first two methods called “hybrid polling method” [5]. 
With their simultaneous polling method, simultaneous multiple 
direct links were allowed if they did not interfere with each 
other. 
Choi et. al. [7] proposed a “half direct-link setup” (H-DLS) 
method. It limited a direct link to a unidirectional 
communication. The purpose was to achieve TCP fairness 
because a DLS TCP connection had much more bandwidth 
than a non-DLS TCP connection. 
Yoon et. al. [8] proposed “inter-BSS direct link setup” 
(iDLS) method. It allowed STAs from different BSS to 
establish direct link. They assumed that a neighbor STA 
discovery/update mechanism was presented. With this 
mechanism, each STA had complete information about its 
neighborhood and it can establish direct link without going 
through AP. 
Our DPCF protocol is different from all the above methods 
in two respects. The first is that DPCF does not need pre-
allocated polling intervals for direct link communication. In 
DPCF, direct link communication can occur anywhere in a 
polling period. The second is that DPCF is based on PCF, not 
on DLS. Therefore, it is not a derivative of DLS and solves the 
inherent problems in DLS. 
III. OVERVIEWS OF PCF, HCCA, AND DLS 
To facilitate the discussions on our DPCF protocol, we first 
present an overview of the PCF, HCCA, and DLS in 802.11 
standard. 
A. PCF 
The time during which PCF controls access is called 
“contention-free period” (CFP) while the time during which 
DCF controls access is called “contention period” (CP). 
Because the emphasis of this paper is on PCF, we will not 
elaborate on what happens during CP. A CFP appears 
immediately after a beacon frame after a SIFS waiting time. A 
CP then immediately follows a CFP. If the length of a CFP is 
longer than beacon interval, beacon frames need to be inserted 
into CFP. 
During CFP, an arbitrator called “point coordinator” (PC) 
polls the STAs in its polling list by sending CF-Poll frames. A 
STA that can respond to the CF-Polls is referred to as a “CF-
Pollable” STA and it must send a request to AP to be added to 
the polling list. 
A typical CFP frame sequence is shown in Fig. 1. There are 
several ways to start a CFP. Most commonly, the first frame of 
a CFP is a CF-Poll frame or a Data+CF-Poll frame that is sent 
to the first STA being polled. The polled STA responds with 
either a CF-Ack frame or a Data+CF-Ack frame. The process 
then alternates between CF-Poll from AP and CF-Ack from 
STA. If a STA sends data back to AP, the AP responds by 
piggybacking CF-Ack to the next CF-Poll frame. However, it 
is possible that a STA does not respond to CF-Poll at all. In this 
case, the AP waits for a PIFS and starts to poll again. A CFP 
must end with a CF-End frame. 
968
