計畫中文摘要 
 
KEYWORDS:  量子蒙地卡羅法，高效計算，多核矩陣演算法，分散式系統， 
科學視覺化工具。 
 
QUEST (QUantum-Electron-Simulation-Toolbox) 是一個利用量子蒙地卡羅法來模
擬電子運動的軟體。他可以模擬電子的交互作用和旋轉，故許多有趣的物理性質
可從而得知。然而，由於量子蒙地卡羅法的計算昂貴，對於許多新興材料的研究，
像是強相關性材料和高維度材料，QUEST 並不能提供有效的模擬。 
這計畫書提出四個改進的方向來加強 QUEST 的效能和使用性。第一個方向是利
用新世代的處理器，例如多核處理器和圖形處理器，來加強運算效能。這些處理
器擁有強大的計算潛力，但是需要不同思維的演算法和編程來有效利用。這方面
的研究不但能提升材料模擬的效能，對於整個數值運算都有重大的影響。 
第二個方向是改進 QUEST 在分散式記憶體系統中的可擴充性。在資料傳輸相對
於昂貴的環境中，如何發掘更多不同層次的可平行程序是重點。針對現今大型電
腦系統，此研究方向與前一個有相輔相成的效果。 
第三個方向是發展 QUEST 的設定與視覺化工具。設定工具是為了讓使用者更容
易輸入模擬的材料。視覺化工具是為了更有效來分析模擬的結果。這方面的研究
在日趨複雜的材料與模擬結果之中是更顯重要。 
第四個方向是拓展 QUEST 的功能。新的物理模型和量測對於物理界有著顯著的
意義。此一研究的目的是讓新模型和測量可以利用 QUEST 強大運算核心，讓新
的模擬結果可以更快得出。 
 
1. Introduction 
Determinant Quantum Monte Carlo (DQMC) simulation is a widely used computational 
method for understanding and predicting material properties.  QUEST is one of the state of 
the art packages that implement DQMC simulation.  It has several promising features, such as 
better performance, extendable modules, good configurability, and portability. However, to 
simulate the strongly correlated and multi-dimensional materials, QUEST needs be improved 
in several ways.  This project proposes four directions of improvements.  
1. Enhance the performance of QUEST on multicore and heterogeneous processors. 
2. Improve the scalability of QUEST on distributed memory systems. 
3. Develop configuration and visualization tools for QUEST.   
4. Extend the functionality of QUEST to accommodate more physical model and 
measurements. 
The rest of sections are organized as follows.  Section 2 lists our preliminary results toward 
each research direction.  Section 3 discusses the future works.  Publications related to this 
project are listed in the last section. 
2. Works and Results 
Those four directions involve knowledge from diverse disciplines.  Thus, different 
methodologies are required to conduct the research.   We describe each subject separately. 
1.  Enhance the performance of QUEST on multicore and 
heterogeneous processors. 
We made several progresses in this direction.  First, a new algorithm, Block Structured 
Orthogonal Factorization (BSOF), is developed to speed up the stabilization step of Green’s 
function calculation on multicore processors.  Second, a new class, System Integration and 
Implementation, was been offered to teach the Cell programming and GPU programming.  
Third, two master students, 陳廷甫 and 陳增益, had been working on the algorithms of GPU 
programming.   
The BSOF algorithm is based on QR factorization without pivoting to stabilize the 
computation.  Comparing to the original method, it uses more floating point operations, but 
can avoid pivoting, which is the time killer on the multicore architectures.  A 40% 
performance improvement had been observed on the quad core machine.  A journal paper is 
prepared for this subject. 
The Cell and GPU programming class is offered to the undergraduate students, whose class 
webpage is at http://www.cs.nthu.edu.tw/~cherung/teaching/2010gpucell/index.html.  For 
each topic, Cell and GPU, six classes are taught.   Besides the basic programming language 
and hardware features, the performance optimization techniques are specially focused.  
3. Future works 
There are several ongoing works related to this project.  First, several papers and researches 
are in preparation, including   
1. The multicore algorithm for stabilizing the Green’s function calculation 
2. The mapping strategies to reduce the communication cost on clusters. 
3. Generalize the sparse checkerboard method 
4. Analysis of the inexact Krylov methods for solving eigenvalue problems. 
5. Pre-conditioning techniques based on checkerboard method 
Second, the development of simulations on Cell and GPU is also planned.  That will be the 
projects for new coming students.   
Third, the training of GPU and Cell programming will be continued and extended to more 
students who are interested in this area.  
Last, the presentations on two important conferences, SIAM anneal meeting at Pittsburgher 
and Numerical Linear Algebra meeting at Austin are prepared.  Both of them will be held this 
July.  
4. List of publications and attended conferences 
C-R. Lee, I-H. Chung, Z. Bai, Determinant Quantum Monte Carlo Simulations for Strongly 
Correlated Electron Systems, accepted by IPDPS 2010. 
E. Khatami, C-R. Lee, Z. Bai, R. T. Scalettar and M. Jarrell, Dynamical mean field theory 
cluster solver with linear scaling in inverse temperature. Accepted by Physics Review E 
C. N. Varney, C-R. Lee, Z. Bai, S. Chiesa, M. Jarrell and R. T. Scalettar, Quantum Monte 
Carlo study of the two-dimensional fermion Hubbard model. Accepted by Physics Review B 
and selected for the September 2009 issue of Virtual Journal of Atomic Quantum Fluids, 
published by the American Physical Society and the American Institute of Physics in 
cooperation with numerous other societies and publishers. 
Two papers are submitted and under revision 
Z. Bai, C-R. Lee, R.-C. Li and S. Xu, Stable solutions of linear systems involving long chain 
of matrix multiplications, submitted to LAA, October 5, 2009 
I-Hsin Chung, C-R. Lee, Hierarchical Mapping for the Blue Gene/P system, submitted to 
SC2010 
Several other papers are in preparation.  
Conferences 
This year, I plan to attend three conferences.  I will give talks at each conference. 
1. 24th IEEE International Parallel & Distributed Processing Symposium, in April 19-23, 
2010 ATLANTA (Georgia) USA 
□ 赴國外出差或研習 
□ 赴大陸地區出差或研習 
■ 出席國際學術會議 
□ 國際合作研究計畫出國 
心得報告 
計 畫 名 稱 量子模擬程序的效能與使用
性之改良 
計 畫 編 號 
98-2218-E-007-006-MY3 
報 告 人 
姓 名 
李哲榮 
服 務 機 構 
及 職 稱 
清大資工系 
會議/訪問時間 
 地點 
19/4/2010-23/4/2010.  
Atlanta USA 
會 議 名 稱 24th IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium  
發表論文題目 （檢附論文檔案） 
 
一、主要任務摘要（五十字以內） 
There are several goals for this trip.  First, my colleagues and I had a paper, “Determinant 
Quantum Monte Carlo Simulations for Strongly Correlated Electron Systems”, accepted by 
the conference.  I need to make a presentation for it.  Second, there are many engineers 
and scientists from around the world to present their latest research findings in all aspects of 
parallel computation.  It is an excellent chance to meet them.  Third, in addition to 
technical sessions of submitted paper presentations, the meeting offers workshops, tutorials, 
and commercial presentations and exhibits, which give the latest updates of the research in 
this area. 
 
二、對計畫之效益（一百字以內） 
The paper we published at this conference is directly related to this project, which in one of 
the goal that I proposed in the project: parallelizing the DQMC kernel on model hybrid 
supercomputer.  We had been working very hard on several issues on the parallelization, as 
addressed in the paper.  Through this paper, I hope more people in the society will start to 
pay more attention to this problem and may have more collaboration in the future. 
 
三、經過 
I gave the presentation on 4/20 afternoon, the Session 7 Performance/Scalability 
Improvement for Scientific Applications.  Attendances from different places are interested 
in the recent development from the application aspects.  Although many efforts had been 
made, new requests for more computational power and more parallelization continuously 
provide more demands to this society, which derive more    
 
I also attended other technical sections, including Session 5 (Sorting), Session 15 (Parallel 
Linear Algebra I), the Plenary Session - Best Papers, Session 21 (Parallel Linear Algebra II), 
Session 28 (Parallel Graph Algorithms II), and Session 30 (Analysis of heterogeneity and 
future platforms).   
 
四、心得 
The most excited achievements for this trip is to know and to talk to many distinguished 
researchers from companies, universities and national labs, including the program chair 
David A. Bader, (Georgia Institute of Technology, USA), Joseph JaJa, (University of 
Maryland, USA), Alan Sussman, (University of Maryland, USA), I-Hsin Chung (IBM 
