 1
I. Introduction and Motivation 
 The growing popularity of multimedia Internet applications is a strong driving force for 
future cellular mobile systems. Due to user mobility and wide range of applications, the traffic 
pattern of each cell can vary dynamically. Thus, the current practice of engineering cell coverage 
and capacity based on predefined traffic patterns before a code-division multiple-access (CDMA) 
cellular network is deployed may lead to poor utilization of radio resources. Due to asymmetric 
traffic and the interdependence of traffic capacity and coverage, this problem could be 
exacerbated in next-generation CDMA cellular networks, especially over the capacity-limited 
downlink [1]-[4]. 
 To adapt to the variations of traffic load, tradeoffs between coverage and capacity in 
CDMA cellular systems have been considered [3]-[7]. For example, to guarantee the coverage of 
a cell, more power is used to reach mobile stations (MSs) near cell boundaries under power 
control. However, in interference-limited systems, the resulting higher intercell interference will 
reduce the system capacity significantly. Furthermore, under large traffic variations, power 
control may not be effective [3]-[5]. A uniform network layout with equal-sized cells, while 
optimal under uniform traffic, suffers significant capacity degradations if traffic loads are not 
balanced among all the cells [6]. To accommodate traffic load variations between cells, it is 
crucial for next-generation CDMA cellular networks to be aware of system situations and 
configure cell coverage and capacity dynamically [1], [7]. 
 Several schemes for dynamic cell configuration (DCC) have recently been proposed 
[8]-[16]. Optimization of pilot power, and downlink capacity and coverage planning were 
considered in [8] and [9]. In [10], a DCC scheme for circuit-switched microcellular CDMA 
systems was proposed to enhance the uplink performance. In [11], the competitive characteristics 
of network coverage and capacity were analyzed for a simple network. Only one class-of-service 
was considered in [8]-[11], and it may be difficult to extend these schemes to multiple classes of 
service. Some techniques based on heuristics have also been proposed for dynamic pilot power 
allocation (DPPA) to balance downlink traffic load, while assuring service coverage [12], [13]. 
However, these schemes may cause “coverage failure regions” between cells where pilot signals 
are too weak to serve a MS [14], [15]. Moreover, a common shortcoming of the previous work 
[8]-[15] is that only pilot power is adjusted dynamically in the time-varying environment, without 
adjusting other parameters critical to radio resource management (RRM). In fact, pilot power 
allocation and other RRM parameters are tightly coupled. In our previous work [16], we have 
shown that system performance can be improved significantly by a self-organized DCC scheme 
with coordinated call admission control (CAC), compared with fixed pilot power allocation 
(FPPA) and DPPA without taking CAC into account. Other work has shown that signal quality 
degradation can be prevented by configuring cell areas adaptively and setting power levels 
appropriately [4], [17], and soft handoff has significant impacts on the system capacity and cell 
 3
widely applied in image processing field and was suitable for VLSI implementation. However, to 
adopt the CNN technique for the scheduling optimization problem, modifications of its 
architecture are necessary. 
 We propose a CNN and utility (CNNU)-based scheduler for downlink in multimedia 
CDMA cellular networks. The CNNU-based scheduler contains a utility function (UF) 
preprocessor, a radio-resource range (RR) decision maker, and a CNN processor. Noticeably, the 
utility function for each connection, adopted in the UF preprocessor, jointly considers radio 
resource efficiency, diverse QoS requirements, and fairness. It is a radio resource function 
weighted by both its QoS requirement deviation function and its fairness compensation function. 
The UF preprocessor generates a matrix of normalized utility functions of all connections. On the 
other hand, the RR decision maker determines a matrix showing the upper limit of radio resource 
assignment for each connection. The CNN processor receives the two matrix as inputs and 
determines an optimal normalized radio resource assignment vector for connections in 
multimedia CDMA cellular systems, by minimizing the system cost function which is in terms of 
the overall system utility function under system constraints of maximum transmission power, 
minimum spreading factor, and remaining queue length. We propose a two-layered CNN 
architecture to significantly reduce the implementation complexity for the CNN processor with 
the same equilibrium. The performance of the proposed CNNU-based scheduler is investigated 
by comparing with Exponential Rule [32] for systems using both dedicated and shared channel. 
Results show that the CNNU-based scheduler is efficient and effective for multimedia CDMA 
cellular networks. 
 Orthogonal frequency division multiple access combined with space division multiple access 
(OFDM A/SDMA) can be an effective approach to support high-speed wireless communications. 
The OFDMA is based on OFDM (orthogonal frequency division multiplexing) and inherits its 
superiority of mitigating multipath fading and maximizing spectral efficiency (Nyquist rate). The 
SDMA uses a beamforming technique in a multiple-antenna system and multiplexes multiple 
users on the same subchannel to increase the system throughput. 
 For a multiuser OFDMA system, Jang and Lee proposed a linkgain-based resource 
allocation (LBRA) scheme and proved that the data rate of the system was maximized when each 
subcarrier was assigned to the user with the best channel gain [40]. However, this statement is not 
always true when SDMA is enabled in an OFDMA system. Instead, the system data rate is the 
largest when an optimal set of cochannel users, which depends on the spacial signature of each 
user, is selected for each subcarrier. But the algorithm for finding the optimal set of cochannel 
users is of a high computational complexity [41], [42]. Hence, when the channel state information 
(CSI) is available at the base station, a sophisticated and lowcomplexity radio resource allocation 
(RRA) scheme is needed for OFDMA/SDMA systems to properly exploit system diversity so that 
spectrum efficiency is maximized. 
 On the other hand, in a modern wireless system that supports multimedia traffic, 
 5
not for multimedia traffics. As a result, the rate-based scheduling would not favor the user with 
strict QoS requirement and thus would not be applicable to the system with multimedia traffic. 
 From these previous works, three observations can be induced. First, all above schemes can 
be considered as fixed-priority schemes. The resource is either allocated to guarantee a fixed 
number of transmission bits in each OFDMA symbol, or assigned according to predefined 
weights for a GPS scheduling or proportional rate constraint. Since the required resource is fixed 
in each OFDMA symbol, the time diversity is not well exploited and it results in throughput 
degradation. As shown in [46], the system throughput increases with the number of users due to 
multiuser diversity but then decreases when the number of users is further increased. Second, 
only the bit error rate (BER) and/or the minimum transmission rate were considered as QoS 
requirements in previous RRA algorithms. However, with the presence of multimedia traffic, the 
delay requirement should also be included. Most packets should be transmitted within their delay 
bound, otherwise they will be dropped. Also, the packet dropping ratio should be kept below a 
desired level. And third, most studies assumed that a subcarrier is used as the basic allocation unit 
and that each user always has data in its buffer. However, a subcarrier-based allocation is difficult 
to realize due to its high control-signaling overhead. A basic allocation unit in a practical 
OFDMA system (e.g. IEEE 802.16 [54]) is a subchannel, which is a set of subcarriers. Moreover, 
in realistic environments providing multimedia service, the traffic models should be taken into 
account when designing RRA algorithms. 
 We propose an adaptive radio resource allocation (ARRA) algorithm for downlink OFDMA/ 
SDMA systems with multimedia traffic. This radio resource allocation work is mathematically 
formulated into an optimization problem with an objective to maximize the system throughput 
under four designed constraints. For spectrum efficiency and QoS satisfaction, the radio resources 
allocated to a user have an upper bound and a lower bound, which are the result of the buffer 
occupation constraint and the QoS fulfillment constraint, respectively. In addition, there are 
limitations on the system such as the total power and the number of users multiplexed on the 
same subchannel, and these limitations are represented by the total system power constraint and 
the subchannel allocation constraint. Moreover, the ARRA algorithm is composed of two parts to 
solve the optimization problem of radio resource allocation. The first part is a dynamic priority 
adjustment (DPA) scheme, where priorities of users are dynamically adjusted, based on a 
time-to-expiration (TTE) parameter and the radio resource required by each user, frame by frame. 
This can be considered as an MAC layer scheduling algorithm for determining the resource given 
to which user. With this scheme, it is believed that the ARRA algorithm can better attain the 
tradeoff between system throughput and QoS requirement than the schemes with a fixed priority. 
The second part is a low-complexity resource allocation scheme, called priority based greedy 
(PBG) scheme. The intention of the PBG scheme is to maximize the total system throughput 
under the four constraints. It uses the greedy principle to find the best allocation and can be 
considered as a joint design of power, subchannel and bit allocation in the physical layer. 
 7
II. Approach 
II.i. Dynamic Cell Configuration 
• System model 
 The system block diagram of our proposed DCC-RL scheme is shown in Fig. 1. DCC-RL 
can be implemented in a distributed manner in each BS, which adjusts its pilot power periodically 
to adapt to the variations of system situation through the dynamic pilot power controller. Based 
on the determined pilot power level, the maximum link power constraint and CAC criterion are 
adjusted accordingly. Then, the traffic channel power allocator adjusts its maximum link power 
constraint that is obtained from the maximum link power estimator. After applying all updates for 
RRM to the entire cellular network, the reinforcement signal is input to the dynamic pilot power 
controller to aid its decision for the next pilot power level. In this section, we describe the signal 
model and the link budget model in CDMA systems. An initial cell coverage design for the 
CDMA cellular system is provided to illustrate the interrelation between capacity and cell 
coverage. 
 
Figure 1. System block diagram of proposed DCC-RL scheme. 
A. Signal Model 
 Assume the total allocated power of BS b is bP , including pilot channel power IbP  and 
traffic channel power TbP , where bP  is smaller than or equal to the BS’s maximum transmit 
 9
raises the issue of fairness for different service rates in terms of service coverage and transmits 
power. If the same transmit power is allocated to MSs with different service rates, the higher 
service rate results in a smaller service coverage. Alternately, in order to support the same service 
coverage for different service rates, more transmit power is needed to support MSs with higher 
service rates near cell boundaries. Note that since total downlink transmit power of each BS is 
limited, system capacity is directly related to transmit power management. Based on the above 
concerns, in order to optimize system capacity, cell radius can be determined in terms of a 
suitable reference service rate *r , where * min max[ , ]r r r∈ . The corresponding cell radius *( )R r  
is determined by the maximum allowable path loss *( )PL r . Therefore, the required /c oE I  of 
the system ϒ%  is equal to 
 *[dB] [dBm] ( )[dB] [dB] [dBm],Ib L oP PL r ηϒ = − −Ω +%   (2) 
where ϒ%  is within the range from −16 [dB] to −20 [dB]. Based on the link budget and the 
channel model, the cell radii can be calculated in terms of different reference service rates 
0 1 6r r r< < <L  and the results represented as 0 1 6{ref , ref , , ref }L . Assume that 1Wpower is 
allocated to the pilot channel for the FIX configuration with FPPA. Fig. 2 shows 
 
Figure 2. Capacity versus referenced service coverage under fixed pilot power for SSDT and 
LPPA schemes under uniform ( ρ =1) and nonuniform ( ρ =4) cell loads. 
results of the total throughput (system capacity) in the cellular network by applying SSDT and 
LPPA schemes in terms of different referenced service coverage under uniform ( 1)ρ =  and 
nonuniform ( 4)ρ =  traffic load cases, where ρ  is the traffic load ratio between a central cell 
 11
• [Actions]: At each decision epoch, the BS makes a decision to choose a suitable fraction of 
the pilot power based on state s. The action ( )a s A∈  of BS b is defined as the fraction 
min max[ , ]bf f f∈  of the pilot power relative to the maximum transmit power. 
• [Rewards function]: Based on the action ( )a s  in a state s , the system earns a reward 
( , ( ))s a sϕ . We choose the total throughput as the reward  
 ( , ( )) ,m
m
s a s rϕ =∑   (5) 
where min max[ , ]mr r r∈  is the transmission rate of MS m. 
B. MDP Solution by Reinforcement-Learning 
 The objective of the decision process is to find an optimal policy *π  for each state s , 
which minimizes the cumulative measure of the reward ( , ( ))t t ts a sϕ ϕ=  that is received over 
time, where the subscript represents the time instant t. The total expected discounted reward over 
an infinite time horizon can be represented by the value function with policy π , 
00
( ) { ( , ( )) | }t t ttV s E s s s s
π λ ϕ π∞== ⋅ =∑ , with discount factor 0 1λ≤ < . Let Pr( | , ( ))s s a s′  be 
the transition probability from state s  to s′ . The value function can be rewritten as 
 ( ) ( , ( )) Pr( | , ( )) ( ),
s S
V s U s s s s s V sπ ππ λ π
′∈
′ ′= + ∑   (6) 
where ( , ( )) { ( , ( ))}U s s E s sπ ϕ π= . Define a Q-function of state-action pair with policy π  as 
( , ( )) ( , ( )) Pr( | , ( )) ( )
s S
Q s a s U s a s s s s V sπ πλ π′∈ ′ ′= + ∑ . The optimal value function *V π  with the 
optimal policy *π  satisfies Bellman’s optimality criterion 
 
* **( , ( )) max ( , ( )).
b A
Q s a s V Q s b sπ π
∈
= =   (7) 
 Thus, the optimal Q-function can be obtained from *( , ( ))Q s a s  finding an optimal policy 
of Q-function 
*
( , ( ))Q s a sπ . Without knowing ( , ( ))U s a s  and Pr( | , ( ))s s a s′ , the Q-learning 
process can still find an optimal policy *π  through updating ( , ( ))Q s a s  to find *( , ( ))Q s a s  in 
a recursive manner using the information of current state ts , action ta , reward tϕ , and next 
state ts ′ . Watkins has shown that if the Q-value of each feasible state-action pair ( , ( ))s a s  is 
visited infinitely often, and if the learning rate is decreased to zero in a suitable way, then 
*Pr{ ( , ( )) ( , ( )) as } 1Q s a s Q s a s t→ →∞ = . The Q-values of the state-action pairs are usually 
stored in a lookup table. However, this approach is not suitable for problems with continuous 
state spaces as in multimedia CDMA systems, where the curse of dimensionality is hard to tackle. 
It has been shown that fuzzy Q-learning is an efficient technique for the approximation of 
continuous system states by adapting Watkins’s Q-learning technique such that a fuzzy inference 
system (FIS) is incorporated into reinforcement-learning to generalize Q-learning by inferring 
 13
pilot signal [dB]IPG . Then, substituting (1) into (9), we obtain 
*[dBm] [dBm] ( )[dB] [dB]I IT T R RE E H r H= − + . Hence, as soon as the pilot power of BS b, IbP , 
has been adjusted dynamically, the maximum link power of cell should be 
 *[dBm] [dBm] ( )[dB] [dB].I Ib b R Rp P H r H≤ − +%   (10) 
 The maximum link power constraint is, thus, coupled with pilot power accordingly. Note 
that the same constraint of the maximum link power for different service rates is adopted in this 
paper because the processing gain can be regarded as a priority index for different service rates. 
D. Dynamic CAC Criterion Design 
 In DCC-RL, as soon as the optimal pilot power IbP  has been determined by the dynamic 
pilot power controller, as shown in Fig. 3, the corresponding maximum link power bp%  can be 
updated by (10). The SINR threshold bΛ  for call admission in cell b becomes 
 *[dB] [dBm] ( )[dB] [dB] [dBm].b b I op PL r ηΛ = − −Ω −%   (11) 
For CAC of new calls, MS m originating a new call measures and reports its received SINR ˆ SH . 
The BS accepts the newcall if ˆ [dB] [dB]S bH > Λ , otherwise, the new call is blocked. For CAC of 
handoff calls, the soft handoff algorithm [30] is implemented, in which maximal ratio combining 
is used to obtain the overall SINR of MS h ˆ SH , from all serving BSs in the active set hD . A 
handoff request is issued to BS b whenever an add event occurs. The BS accepts the handoff 
request if ˆ [dB] [dB]S bH > Λ , and the admitted handoff MS adds BS b into its active set hD . 
Otherwise, the handoff call request is blocked. On the other hand, if the blocked handoff call has 
not yet exceeded the handoff delay time, the MS can make a handoff request again as long as the 
link quality does not fall below the /c oE I  requirement [dB]ϒ%  (2). 
II.ii. Cellular Neural Network and Utility-based Scheduler for CDMA Cellular Networks 
• System model 
 Assume that there are N real-time (RT) and non-real-time (NRT) connections (users) in the 
downlink transmissions of the multimedia CDMA cellular system with chip rate W. RT 
 15
delay-sensitive nature. Denote by *iζ  the suspension threshold of connection i, which is 
obtained by * *,{ ( ) }i i D it Pζ ζ≤ ≤P . Then the relative margin of ( )i tζ  is a function of NRTζ  and 
*
iζ , and is dependent on the design of scheduling algorithm. For NRT connections, their 
transmissions are scheduled so that NRT connections will be allocated with proper radio resource 
to achieve high system utilization and keep the fairness and the QoS requirements fulfilled as 
much as possible. 
 Assume that the link-gain ( )i tζ  and the interference ( )i tI  for connection i at time t can 
be measured at the user side and perfectly signaled to the base station. The ( )i tζ  consists of the 
mean path loss, long-term fading, and short-term fading, and is given by 
( )
4 10( ) 10 ( )
L
i t
S
i i it d t
ζ
ζ ζ−= ⋅ ⋅ , where id  is the distance between the user i and its base station, 
( )Li tζ  is the log-normal shadowing component, and ( )Si tζ  is the Rayleigh-fading component. 
The adaptive QAM modulation is adopted and the modulation order 
i
Mκ , with index iκ  for 
connection i is determined according to the link gain quality and interference. The traffic source 
of connection i generates packets and packets are queued in its individual buffer. The buffer size 
is infinite. The source models are assumed to be on-off for RT connections, Perato for NRT 
interactive (NRT-I) connections, and batch Poisson with truncated geometrical batch size for 
NRT best-effort (NRT-B) connections. 
 The proposed CNNU-based scheduler determines an optimal normalized radio resource 
assignment vector * * *1( ) ( ( ), , ( ))Nc t c t c t=v K  to N connections via maximizing an overall system 
utility function. The transmission rate for connection i at t-th frame, denoted by ( )ir t , is then 
allocated according to ( )ic t  of connection i. 
• Formulation of the utility function 
 The utility function for connection i, ( )i tU , is defined as the radio resource function of 
connection i, ( )i tR , weighted by its QoS requirement deviation function  ( )i tA  and its fairness 
compensation function ( )i tF . It can be expressed as  
  ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )i i i it t t t= ⋅ ⋅U R A F   (12) 
A. Radio Resource Function ( )i tR  
 17
B. The QoS Requirement Deviation Function  ( )i tA  
 The QoS requirement deviation function  ( )i tA  is used to indicate how much extent the 
connection i deviates from its call-level QoS requirements. For a RT connection i, a hard delay 
bound *iD  is imposed on each packet. Since QoS over wireless interface can be provided in a 
soft fashion, the QoS guarantee of packet dropping ratio due to excess delay is expressed by 
* *
,Prob{ ( ) }i i D iD t D P≥ < , where ( )iD t  is the waiting time delay for headof-line packet at time t. 
For an NRT interactive (NRTI) connection i, a different notion of QoS requirement is that a 
minimum transmission rate must be guaranteed by * ,[ ( )]i m iE r t R≥ . As for an NRT best-effort 
(NRTB) connection i, no call level QoS requirements are guaranteed and the * ,m iR  is set to be 0. 
 From [38], the proposed Modified Largest Weighted Delay First (M-LWDF) algorithm 
suggests that an exponential rule [32] be the form with throughput optimal for the above call level 
QoS requirement constraints. Therefore, the QoS requirement deviation function  ( )i tA  is 
defined as 
 { }
*
,
*
1/ 2
1/ 2
log( )
( ) ( )
1 [ ( )]
ˆ ( ) ( )
 1 [ ( )]
exp ,  if {RT},
( ) exp ,  if {NRT-I},
1,  if {NRT-B},
D i
i
i
i
P
D t D t
D
D t
L t L t
i L t
i
t i
i
− ⋅ −
+
−
+
⎧ ⎧ ⎫⎪ ⎪⎪ ∈⎨ ⎬⎪ ⎪ ⎪⎪ ⎩ ⎭⎨⎪= ∈⎪⎪ ∈⎩
A  (17) 
where ( )* ,*log( )1( ) ( )D i
i
P
iN i D
D t D t−= ⋅∑  is the average weighted delay, ( )* , *
,
( )ˆ ˆ( ) ( 1) m i i
m i
R r t
i i R
L t L t −= − +  is 
the normalized measurement on the difference of guaranteed minimum transmission rate and the 
assigned rate, and 1 ˆ( ) ( )iN iL t L t= ∑ . For the RT connections, if the weighted delay is more than 
the average weighted delay of all connections, the  ( )i tA  will be exponentially increased, and 
more resource will be scheduled; on the other hand, if the weighted delay is less than the average 
weighted delay, the  ( )i tA  will dramatically decayed, and less resource will be allocated. 
Similarly, for the NRT-I connections, if the accumulated difference of the guaranteed minimum 
transmission rate and the assigned rate is greater than the average value, more resource is 
assigned. As to the NRT-B connections, this function is simply bypassed. 
C. The Fairness Compensation Function ( )i tF  
 The fairness compensation function is to ensure that RT connections using dedicated 
channels have the relative priority over NRT connections using shared channels. It is also the way 
that the radio resource shared by all NRT connections is assigned according to a predefined target 
 19
• Design of the CNNU-based scheduler 
 In this section, we first describe the overall architecture of the CNNU-based Scheduler, and 
then the proposed two-layered architecture of CNN processor is discussed. Fig. 3 shows the block 
diagram of the CNNU-based scheduler. It contains a utility function (UF) preprocessor, a 
radio-resource range (RR) decision maker, and a CNN processor. The proposed CNNU-based 
scheduler takes the link information, interference, delay, queue length, and spreading factor of all 
connections as inputs, and finally outputs the optimal normalized radio resource assignment 
vector * * *1( ) ( ( ), , ( ))Nc t c t c t=v K , where *( )c tv , 1 i N≤ ≤ , is expressed by K bits. 
 The UF preprocessor first calculates the utility function ( )i tU  given in (12), 1 i N≤ ≤ . 
Then it normalizes ( )i tU  by a compression function ( )(1 )i te σ−− U , expresses ( )(1 )i te σ−− U  to be 
an 1 K×  vector given by 
 [ ]( ) 1(1 ) 2 , , 2 , , 2 ,i t k Ke σ− − − −− ⋅ K KU  
and finally constructs an N K×  input matrix (1),[ ]i kY  for the CNN processor where 
( )(1)
, (1 ) 2i
t k
i kY e
σ− −= − ⋅U . Notice that σ  is a constant related to the slope and the linear region of 
the compression function. The compression function ( )(1 )i te σ−− U  normalizes ( ) [0, )i t ∈ ∞U  
into the unit range of [0,1) . A good compression function is the one with broad linear range so 
that the individual utility function is normalized linearly within a reasonable range. The UF 
preprocessor also determines a vector of modulation order [ ]
i
Mκ  for all connections and 
outputs to the RR decision maker. The RR decision maker determines the upper limits for the 
radio resource assignment for every connection i according to the system constraints. Note that, 
there are two constraints on ( )c tv , denoted by 1ψ  and 2ψ . The constraint 
{ }1 ( ) : ( ) 1nnc t c t= ≤∑ψ v  is because the system transmission power is limited by a maximum 
power budget *maxP . This constraint is embedded in the architecture of our proposed CNN 
processor. The constraint { }2 2,( ) : ( )n inc t c t ψ= ≤∑ψ v , where { }2log ( ) /2, ( ) ( )min , ,  i fii i iW M Q t Ti SF t t iκψ ⋅ ⋅= ∀R R , 
and ( )i tR  is the radio resource function indicating the maximum achievable transmission rate 
for connection i at time t. The constraint 2ψ  indicates no further utility can be gained if ( )ir t  
exceeds the supported rate which is the rate when the power ratio ( )ic t  equals ( )2log ( ) ii iW MSF tκ⋅ ⋅R , or the 
 21
Lyapunov function ( )E τ  which is the energy of the CNN network at time τ . With an 
appropriate energy function designed from the cost function, the minimization of the cost can be 
achieved along the designed trajectories. The detailed design process is ignored in this paper. Fig. 
4 shows the structure of the two-layered CNN processor. The decision layer consists of N K×  
neurons; the output layer is with an ( 1) 1N + ×  array, where the output of the first neuron is the 
summation of all the others. The interconnections between the neurons of decision layer and 
those of output layer are defined by: (i) for the first decision layer to the second output layer, the 
connection weight between , ( )i kX τ  and ( , )jc t τ  is 2 k− , k∀  if j i= ; is zero if j i≠ ; (ii) for 
the second output layer feedback to the first decision layer, only the first neuron output is 
connected to the , ( )i kX τ  of the decision layer with the interconnection weight 1 2 kη −⋅  for i∀ . 
 The recurrent interconnection weights , ; ,i k j mA  from neuron 
(1)
,i kz  to 
(1)
,j mz  and the external 
control weights (1), ; ,i k i kB  and 
(2)
, ; ,i k i kB  for external inputs 
(1)
,i kY  and 
(2)
,i kY  in the first decision layer 
are obtained by 
 
2 2
, ; , 1 2 3
(1)
, ; , 0
(2)
, ; , 2
( )
, ; , 2 ,
, 1 3
 2 2 2 ,
 ,
 ,
 2 ,
 2 ,
k k
i k i k i
i k i k
i k i k i
k m
i k j m i i j
k
i k
A
B
B
A
V
η η η
η
η
η δ
η η
− −
− +
−
⎧ = − ⋅ − ⋅Δ ⋅ +⎪ =⎪⎪ = ⋅Δ⎨⎪ = − ⋅Δ ⋅ ⋅⎪⎪ = ⋅ −⎩
 (20) 
where ( ), 2,1Ki i k iku X ψ=Δ = −∑ . For the second output layer, there are no external inputs, and 
only recurrent interconnection weights exist. The interconnection weight between ( , )ic t τ  and 
( , )jc t τ  is given by 0, jδ  with i = 0. Note that the coefficients must be carefully selected so that 
the stability and the convergence of the CNN processor can be attained. 
II.iii.Radio Resource Allocation for Downlink OFDMA/SDMA Systems 
• System model 
A. OFDMA/SDMA System 
 The downlink OFDMA/SDMA system with the ARRA algorithm is shown in Fig. 5, where 
data streams for K  single-antenna mobile stations are transmitted from the base station which is 
equipped with N  subchannels and Q  transmit antennas. A set of OFDM subcarriers forms an 
 23
the channel is considered as fixed in a frame duration. Also, assume a perfect downlink CSI 
estimation for each user. Let ,k ih  be a 1 Q×  vector denoting the frequency domain channel gain 
from the base station to user k on subcarrier i. Note that ,k ih  is not a function of l  since the 
channel is assumed to be fixed within a frame. For the sake of simplicity and acceptable 
performance, a zero-force (ZF) transmit beamforming scheme in [41], [49], [50] is used. The 
performance of ZF beamforming is equivalent to that of the minimum mean square error (MMSE) 
beamforming for a low number of cochannel users or a high SNR [37]. Since a RRA scheme 
usually considers to allocate resource to users with good channel qualities, the SNR is usually 
high and thus the ZF beamforming can achieve a close performance to the MMSE beamforming. 
With the ZF transmit beamforming where users are orthogonal in space domain, the received 
signal of user k in subcarrier i for the l th OFDMA symbol, denoted by ,k iY , is given by, 
 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ), , , , , ,k i k i k i k i k i k iY d Zξ= +h wl l l l l , (22) 
where ( ),k iZ
l  is the thermal noise on user k in subcarrier i and is assumed to be in complex 
Guassian distribution with zero mean and variance 2σ . Then, the received SNR of user k in 
subcarrier i for the l th OFDMA symbol, denoted by ( ),k iSNR l , can be obtained by, 
 
2( ) ( )
, , ,( )
, 2
k i k i k i
k iSNR
ξ
σ=
h wl ll . (23) 
The received SNR is affected by the beamforming vector. If the user k has a high spatial 
correlation, the term ( ), ,k i k ih w
l  will be small and a poor received SNR will be the result. Note that 
the ARRA algorithm will select those cochannel users such that their effective linkgains are large 
enough. 
B. Power Allocation 
 The allocated power to user k on subcarrier i for the l th OFDMA symbol in a frame, ( ),k iξ l , 
1 L≤ ≤l , is determined by the minimum required SNR of user k, which can be obtained from the 
QoS requirement of BER, *kBER , and the modulation scheme of user k. If user k adopts M-QAM 
modulation, the minimum required SNR, *kSNR , is given by [56], 
 25
 The adaptive radio resource allocation (ARRA) algorithm is designed to determine an 
optimal assignment such that the total system throughput is maximized while each user’s QoS 
requirements are satisfied. Define ( ),k nx
l  as the assignment variable of modulation order for user k 
on subchannel n for the l th OFDMA symbol, where { }( ), 0,1, 2, 3k nx ∈l , 1 k K≤ ≤ , 1 n N≤ ≤ , 
and 1 L≤ ≤l . If ( ), 0k nx =l , it denotes that the data for user k is not transmitted on subchannel n at 
the l th OFDMA symbol. If ( ), 1, 2, or 3k nx =l , it means that the data for user k is transmitted on 
this subchannel using modulation scheme of QPSK, 16-QAM, or 64-QAM, respectively, at the 
l th OFDMA symbol. Denote the assignment vector 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
1,1 1, ,1 , ,1 ,, , , , , , , , , ,
T
N k k N K K Nx x x x x x⎡ ⎤≡ ⎣ ⎦x l l l l l l lL L L L L  the solution of the ARRA algorithm for 
the l th OFDMA symbol. The throughput of user k is defined as the allocated transmission bits 
to user k in this frame, denoted by kR , and can be calculated from 
( )x l , 1 L≤ ≤l , by 
 ( )(1) ( ) ( ) ( ),
1 1
L N
L
k k k n
n
R R q x
= =
= = ⋅∑∑x x xl l
l
L L , (27) 
where 2q b= ×  is the number of transmission bits with the basic QPSK modulation over b 
subcarriers in one subchannel. Also, the selected user set in subchannel n at the l th OFDMA 
symbol, ( )nK
l , can be obtained from ( )x l  by, 
 ( ) { }( ) ( ) ( ) ( ), 0,1n n k nK K k x k K= = > ≤ <xl l l l . (28) 
It is evident from (25) and (26) that the allocated power, ( ),k np
l , is a function of *kBER  and 
( )x l . 
Hence, if needed, ( ),k np
l  will be denoted by ( )( ) * ( ), ,k n kp BER xl l  in the following. 
 The ARRA algorithm formulates the RRA problem as an optimization problem given by, 
 ( ) ( )(1) ( )(1) ( ) (1) ( )
1
arg max
L
K
L L
k
k
R∗ ∗
=
= ∑
x x
x x x x
L
L L  
subject to the following constraints: 
 27
scheme. The details are described in the following. 
A. DPA Scheme 
 Here we introduce a time-to-expiration (TTE) parameter to indicate the urgency degree of a 
user at the current frame for the DPA scheme. For user k, we denote the TTE parameter and the 
number of residual bits of the head-of-line (HOL) packet by kV  and kB , respectively. The 
smaller kV , the more the degree of urgency is of user k. For users with RT service class, the kV  
is intuitively given by, 
 *k k kV D D= − , (30) 
where kD  is the delay time from the arrival of the HOL packet of user k to the current frame, 
and the unit of both kD  and 
*
kD  is in frames. For users with NRT service class, the kV  is 
given by, 
 *
k k
k k
k
B BV D
R
⎢ ⎥′ + ′= −⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
, (31) 
where x⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦  is the largest integer smaller than x, D′  is the time duration while there is data 
buffered in the queue of user k before the current frame, kB′  is the total number of transmission 
bits of user k in kD′ , and *kR  is the minimum required transmission rate in a unit of bits per 
frame. The derivation of kV  in (31) of NRT user k comes from the inequality 
( ) ( ) *k k k k kB B V D R′ ′+ + ≥ , which means that the average rate should be greater than the minimum 
required transmission rate. An NRT user’s HOL packet should complete its transmission within 
its TTE value, otherwise the rate requirement of the user is not satisfied. Finally, for users with 
BE service class, the kV = ∞  since there is no delay or rate requirement for BE users. 
 Given kV  and kB  of user k, its priority value at the beginning of a frame, kR , is defined 
as, 
  
( )
0, if
, if
max ln ,0 elsewise,
k
k
k th
k
k
k
k
V
B q V V
qR
B V q
V q
= ∞⎧⎪⎪⎡ ⎤ ⋅ ≤⎪⎢ ⎥⎪= ⎢ ⎥⎨⎪ ⎛ ⎞⎪ ⎡ ⎤ − ⋅⎡ ⎤⎜ ⎟⎪ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟⋅⎢ ⎥⎪ ⎝ ⎠⎩
 (32) 
 29
maintaining the same modulation order for the users that are already in the subchannel is 
increased. The cost function, defined in (33), also includes the above increasing power. Hence the 
spatial correlation between the new user and the users that are already in the subchannel is also 
measured by the cost function. 
At the beginning of a frame, the PBG scheme receives the information { },1kR k K≤ ≤  from 
the result of the DPA scheme and initially sets the assignment variables, ( ),k nx
l , ,k n∀ , the current 
used power, denoted by ( )P l , to be zero, and the set of free subchannels available for the l th 
OFDMA symbol, denoted by ( )freeN
l , to be { }( ) 1freeN n n N= ≤ ≤l , for all l . The PBG scheme 
then finds the optimal assignment vectors, ( )(1) ( )Lx xL , which is the solution of the resource 
allocation in a frame. 
 For detailed description, a pseudocode of the PBG scheme is given in Appendix I. The 
PBG scheme runs in an iterative process for symbol l  to find ( )x l , 1 L≤ ≤l . It constructs a 
candidate user set, denoted by Ω , and selects the optimal pair of user and subchannel, denoted 
by ( )* *,k n , which is defined as the highest priority user on the subchannel such that its cost value 
is the smallest. The Ω  contains the backlogged users with the highest priority, and the ( )* *,k n  
is obtained by choosing the user in Ω  and the subchannel in ( )freeN l  such that the cost value, 
( )
* *,k n
C l , is minimal. If the power budget in the l th OFDMA symbol is still sufficient for 
increasing the modulation order for user *k  on subchannel *n , then the modulation order of the 
pair ( )* *,k n  is increased by one, i.e. * * * *( ) ( ), , 1k n k nx x= +l l . In each iteration, if q bits are allocated to 
the selected user *k , then the queue length of user *k , *BkR will be decreased by q and the used 
power for the l th OFDMA symbol, ( )P l , is increased by the minimum cost. Also, the priority 
value of user *k  will be decreased by q or equal to zero, i.e. ( )* *max , 0k kR R q= − . 
 To reduce the complexity of the ARRA algorithm and the control signaling overhead of the 
system, the PBG scheme continues the same allocation as the one for the l th OFDMA symbol to 
its next consecutive symbols to form a time burst transmission. For each subchannel in ( )freeN
l , it 
pre-assigns the same assignment variables for the l th OFDMA symbol to the next successive 
 31
III. Conclusion and Discussion 
 We compare the performance of four schemes: FPPA with SSDT (FIX-SSDT), FPPA with 
LPPA (FIX-LPPA), DCC-RL with SSDT (DCC-SSDT), and DCC-RL with LPPA (DCC-LPPA). 
For FPPA, the default pilot power, IbP , is set at 2.5 W (12.5% of the maximum transmit power) 
for each cell. The maximum link power bp%  and the CAC threshold IH  are fixed and 
calculated from (10) and (11), respectively. For DCC-RL, IbP , bp% , and IH  are adjusted 
dynamically, as described in Section IV. Assume the arrival rate is 1.6 calls/s, and the traffic load 
ratio ρ  is varied from 1 to 5. For the design parameters of DCC-RL, maximum and minimum 
fractions of pilot power are min 0.05f =  and max 0.2f = , respectively; decision period N is ten 
frames; total number of measurement samples M is 100 frames; and total simulation time is 106 
frames (105 learning times). 
 The comparison between FIX-LPPA and FIX-SSDT in terms of capacity and coverage is 
shown in Fig. 2. We see that the FIX-LPPA scheme achieves a higher total throughput than the 
FIX-SSDT scheme for both uniform and nonuniform cell load cases. The throughput of 
FIX-LPPA is about 20% higher than that of the FIX-SSDT scheme in the nonuniform cell load 
case. This is because FIX-LPPA successfully releases congested cell’s load through a 
power-balance strategy, whereas the FIX-SSDT scheme lacks the flexibility to adapt to 
nonuniform cell load situations. 
 Fig. 6(a) and (b) shows the average pilot power distribution of the hotspot, first-tier, and 
second-tier cells using DCC-LPPA and DCC-SSDT schemes, respectively. We can see that the 
DCC-RL schemes adjust the pilot power in each cell according to various system situations. 
When the traffic load ratio is increased, the pilot power of the hot spot cell is reduced 
aggressively so as to balance traffic load with adjacent cells, but the coverage is shrunk 
accordingly. In this way, the BS of the hotspot cell can save its transmit power to serve new call 
arrivals. Besides, adjustments of the pilot power can make the existing MSs near the cell 
boundary enter soft handoff mode so as to balance traffic load. Furthermore, for the hotspot cell, 
the slope of the pilot power level versus traffic load ratio for DCC-SSDT is sharper than that for 
DCC-LPPA. This is because both DCC and LPPA strategies are helpful for power balancing, so 
that the pilot power of the DCC-LPPA scheme does not have to be adjusted aggressively. 
 Fig. 7(a) and (b) shows the new call blocking probability of real-time and nonreal-time 
services, respectively. We can see that the DCC-RL schemes improve the blocking probability of 
both real-time and nonreal-time services relative to the FIX schemes. In order to achieve power 
balance between cells, DCC-RL adjusts pilot power and coordinates other RRM mechanisms 
 33
 
Figure 7. Comparison of blocking probability of (a) real-time and (b) nonreal-time 
services. 
 
Figure 8. Comparison of handoff forced termination probability. 
 Furthermore, Fig. 10 compares the average frame error rates. We observe that DCC-RL can 
keep the frame error rate roughly under the requirement of 0.01 by the simple feature abstraction 
design. A more sophisticated design of the feature abstraction can guarantee the QoS requirement 
of the frame error rate strictly. It is noteworthy that the frame error rates of the DCC-RL schemes 
are worse than those of FIX-LPPA in some cases. This is because the DCC-RL schemes can 
 35
show that the performance gain in reduced call blocking more than offsets the performance loss 
in increased coverage failure, our proposed DCC-RL can give an overall gain in system 
performance, and the goal stated above is successfully achieved. 
 
Figure 10. Comparison of frame error probability. 
 
Figure 11. Comparison of size of the active set. 
 To investigate the performance of the proposed CNNU-based scheduler, we compare the 
average throughput, the performance measures of the QoS requirements, and the fairness with the 
Exponential Rule scheduling (EXP) algorithm. In the simulation scenario, two typical types of 
services are assumed. Type-I service is assumed to be real-time class of traffic with peak rate 
 37
 
Figure 12.  The average system throughput. 
 
Figure 13.  QoS performance measures 
exponential rule algorithm is almost saturated and the throughput of the CNNU-based scheduler 
grows up with slightly lower slope. In this region, the throughput of CNNU-based scheduler 
increases because of the better utilization of multiuser diversity gain than that done by the 
exponential rule algorithm. Also, from other performance measure of fairness among NRT 
connections, CNNU-based scheduler has lower variation of allocated radio resource than that of 
exponential rule. 
 Next, the ARRA algorithm will be compared to three conventional RRA schemes with 
some modifications described in the following. (i) Linkgain-based resource allocation (LBRA) 
scheme [40]: The original scheme does not consider multiple antenna. Here it is modified so that 
the best Q users are selected to fit the architecture of multiple antennas. (ii) Multiantenna 
Multi-user Maximum Sum Rate (MMSR) scheme [50]. (iii) Truncated Generalized Processor 
 39
the RT users with the larger packet delay as more urgent users and gives them higher priority. 
Therefore, the packet dropping ratio can be small and the delay requirement of RT users can be 
satisfied. 
 
Figure 14. System Throughput 
 
Figure 15. (a) Packet Dropping Ratio of Voice Users (b) Packet Dropping Ratio of Video Users 
 Figs. 16 (a) and 16 (b) show the mean packet delay of voice users and video users, 
respectively, where the maximum packet delay requirement *kD  is also included. For all the 
algor i thms,  the mean packet  delays  are  lower  than the delay  requirement . 
 41
 
Figure 17. (a) Average Transmission Rate of HTTP Users (b) Guaranteed Ratio of HTTP Users 
TGPS scheme and the MMSR scheme are only 70% and 40%, respectively. The LBRA scheme 
has the lowest guaranteed ratio of HTTP users since it only guarantees the transmission rate of 
users with good channel quality. The ARRA algorithm can have the average transmission rate of 
all NRT users satisfactory and guarantee each NRT user with a minimum transmission rate. 
 Fig. 18 shows the average transmission rate of FTP users with BE service. Although it is 
not required to guarantee the minimum transmission rate for BE users, the ARRA algorithm still 
 
Figure 18. Average Transmission Rate of FTP Users 
gets the transmission rate for BE service higher than other schemes when the traffic load is less 
than 0.7. This is because the goal of throughput maximization in the ARRA algorithm makes the 
transmission rate of each user as large as possible. However, its transmission rate is lower than 
 43
IV. Reference 
[1] S. Sharma, A. R. Nix, and S. Olafsson, “Situation-aware wireless networks,” IEEE Commun. 
Mag., vol. 41, no. 7, pp. 44–50, Jul. 2003. 
[2] J. S. Lee and L. E. Miller, CDMA Systems Engineering Handbook. Norwood, MA: Artech 
House, 1998, pp. 1111–1186. 
[3] J. Laiho, A.Wacker, and T. Novosad, Eds., Radio Network Planning and Optimization for 
UMTS. New York: Wiley, 2002, pp. 280–290. 
[4] W. W. Lu, Broadband Wireless Mobile: 3G and Beyond. New York: Wiley, 2002, pp. 
307–315. 
[5] V. V. Veeravalli and A. Sendonaris, “The coverage-capacity tradeoff in cellular CDMA 
systems,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 48, no. 5, pp. 1443–1450, Sep. 1999. 
[6] R. G. Akl, M. V. Hegde, M. Naraghi-Pour, and P. S. Min, “Multicell CDMA network 
design,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 50, no. 3, pp. 711–722, May 2001. 
[7] S. Sharma and A. R. Nix, “Situation awareness based automatic base station detection and 
coverage reconfiguration in 3G systems,” in Proc. IEEE PIMRC, Lisbon, Portugal, Sept. 
2002, pp. 16–20. 
[8] Y. Ishikawa, T. Hayashi, and S. Onoe, “W-CDMA downlink transmit power and cell 
coverage planning,” IEICE Trans. Commun., vol. E85-B, no. 11, pp. 2416–2426, Nov. 2002. 
[9] S. J. Park, D. Kim, and C. Y. Kim, “Optimal power allocation in CDMA forward link using 
dependency between pilot and traffic channels,” in Proc. Veh. Technol. Conf., Fall, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Sep. 1999, pp. 223–227. 
[10] K. Mori and H. Kobayashi, “Dynamic cell configuration scheme for common channel 
communications in CDMA cellular packet systems,” in Proc. IEEE ICC, Paris, France, Jun. 
2004, pp. 159–163. 
[11] G. Hampel, K. L. Clarkson, J. D. Hobby, and P. A. Polakos, “The tradeoff between coverage 
and capacity in dynamic optimization of 3G cellular networks,” in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. 
Conf., Fall, Orlando, FL, Sep. 2003, pp. 927–932. 
[12] R. T. Love, K. A. Beshir, D. Schaeffer, and R. S. Nikides, “A pilot optimization technique 
for CDMA cellular systems,” in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., Fall, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands, Sep. 1999, pp. 2238–2242. 
[13] K. Valkealahti, A. Hoglund, J. Parkkinen, and A. Flanagan, “CDMA common pilot power 
control with cost function minimization,” in Proc.IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., Fall, Vancouver, 
BC, Canada, Sep. 2002, pp.2244–2247. 
[14] D. Kim, Y. Chang, and J. W. Lee, “Pilot power control and service coverage support in 
CDMA mobile systems,” in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., Spring, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands, May 1999, pp. 1464–1468. 
[15] A. D. Smith, “Designing for coverage availability with different data rates—An improved 
 45
of CDMA networks," Proc. IEEE VTC'2000, pp. 948-954. 
[30] A. L. Stolyar and K. Ramanan, "Largest weighted delay first scheduling: large deviations 
and optimality," Annal Appl. Prob., vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 1-48, 2001. 
[31] A. C. Kam, T. Minn, and K. Y. Siu, "Supporting rate guarantee and fair access for bursty 
data traffic in W-CDMA," IEEE J. Select. Area Communi., vol. 19, no. 11, pp. 2121-2130, 
2001. 
[32] S. Shakkottai and A. L. Stolyar, "Scheduling algorithms for a mixture of real-time and 
non-real-time data in HDR," Bell Lab Reports, 2000. 
[33] L. 0. Chua and L. Yang, "Cellular neural networks: Theory," IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst., vol. 
35, pp. 1257-1272, Oct. 1988. 
[34] J. A. Nossek, "Design and learning with cellular neural networks," IEEE Proc. CNNA-1994, 
Rome, pp. 137-146, Dec. 1994. 
[35] "On sovling constrained optimization problems with neural networks: a penalty method 
approach," IEEE Trans. Neural Net., vol. 4, no. 6, pp. 931-940, Nov. 1993.  
[36] "Energy function based dynamic programming", IEEE Trans. Neural Net., vol. no. pp., 
1991. 
[37] A. J. Goldsmith and S. G. Chua, "Variable-rate variable-power MQAM for fading channels," 
IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 45, no. 10, pp. 1218-1230, Oct. 1997. 
[38] M. Andrews, K. Kumaran, K. Ramanan, A. Stolyar, P. Whiting, and R. Vijayakumar, 
"Providing quality of service over a shared wireless link,," IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 39, no. 
2, pp. 150-154, Feb. 2001. 
[39] Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS), Selection procedures for the choice 
of radio transmission technologies of the UMTS, UMTS 30.03, version 3.2.0, 1998. 
[40] J. Jang and K. B. Lee, “Transmit power adaptation for multiuser OFDM system,” IEEE J. 
Select. Areas Commun., vol. 21, pp. 171–178, Feb. 2003. 
[41] V. K. N. Lau, “Optimal downlink space-time scheduling design with convex utility 
functions - multiple-antenna systems with orthogonal spatial multiplexing,” IEEE Trans. 
Veh. Technol., vol. 54, pp. 1322– 1333, July 2005. 
[42] H. Yin and H. Liu, “Performance of space-division multiple-access (SDMA) with 
scheduling,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 1, pp. 611–618, Oct. 2002. 
[43] G. Song and Y. Li, “Utility-based resource allocation and scheduling in OFDM-Based 
wireless broadband networks,” IEEE Commun. Mag., pp. 127–134, Dec. 2005. 
[44] C. Y. Wong, R. S. Cheng, K. B. Letaief, and R. D. Murch, “Multiuser OFDM with adaptive 
subcarrier, bit, and power allocation,” IEEE J. Select. Areas Commun., vol. 17, pp. 
1747–1758, Oct. 1999. 
[45] D. Kivanc, G. Li, and H. Liu, “Computationally efficient bandwidth allocation and power 
control for OFDMA,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 2, pp. 1150–1158, Nov. 2003. 
[46] Y. J. Zhang and K. B. Letaief, “Multiuser adaptive subcarrier-and-bit allocation with 
 47
Techonology Journal, Volume 8, Issue 3, 2004. 
[61] 3GPP TR 25.892, “Feasibility study for OFDM for UTRAN enhancement,” 3rd Generation 
Partnership Project, Tech. Rep., 2004-06. 
[62] Universal Mobile Telecommunications System, Selection procedures for the choice of radio 
transmission technologies of the UMTS, UMTS Std. 30.03, 1998. 
[63] Z. Diao, D. Shen, and V. O. K. Li, “An adaptive packet scheduling algorithm in ofdm 
systems with smart antennas,” in Proc. Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio 
Communications (PIMRC-2005), 2005, pp. 2151 – 2155. 
[64] WiMAX forum, “Wimax system evaluation methodology,” V.1.0, Tech. Rep., Jan. 2007. 
[65] IEEE C802.16e-04/527r4, “Improved feedback for MIMO precoding,” Tech. Rep. 
[66] D. J. Love, R. W. Heath Jr., “What is the value of limited feedback for MIMO channels,” 
IEEE Commun. Mag., pp. 54–59, Oct. 2004. 
 
 49
can achieve a higher system throughput under the fulfillment of users’ QoS requirements. 
- 1 - 
2008 年 IEEE 國際通訊研討會 
 
出 國 報 告 
 
 
 
 
 
張 仲 儒 
 
國立交通大學電信工程系 
中華民國九十七年五月三十日 
 
- 3 - 
除了上述學術論文發表研討場次進行的，還有 11 個場次的
Executive Panels，涵蓋 4G、WiMAX 等最新無線與行動通訊技術
的發展以及其在電信領域之應用，還有光纖網路、高速接取網路、
下一代通訊網路與網路安全性及服務品質保障的討論。另外，大會
還安排有 77 場的 Tutorials，針對 Coding(編碼)、OFDM 調變、行
動通訊＆網路、MIMO、Wireless Mesh Networks、IP 網路安全、
高速接取網路技術、光交換網路等通訊領域相當基礎或熱門的專業
知識或技術，邀請相關學者專家進行講習、最新技術或趨勢的介紹
與討論。 
 
二、 與會心得 
1. 由會議議題的安排、論文題目與數量，以及會議周邊相關活動
（包括：技術應用討論會 Application session、Keynote speech、
Tutorial、SNPA）的規劃看來，無線與行動通訊領域仍然處於蓬
勃發展的階段，屬於熱門的研究領域，於本屆大會中相關的論
文或議題約佔了半數以上，多著重在 OFDM 系統、無線區域網
路(WLAN)媒介接取控制層技術、個人通訊系統與個人區域網路
技術、WLAN 或個人通訊系統與 WiMAX 等電信行動通訊系統
之互動與整合，甚至是 Turbo Coding、Space-Time Coding、OFDM
等編碼、調變與解調技術、MUD (Multi-User Detection)、MIMO
與智慧型天線(Smart Antenna)等議題的探討。 
2. 從大會所安排的議程內容中，可看出現在以及未來的網路通訊
產業之發展，有助於在研究領域以及廠商新技術的開發提供方
向；而會議中所發表的論文，都是目前世界各地從事相關研究
的學術或產業界最新的技術與成果。藉由本次會議觀摩學習，
與發表的作者或單位作最直接的討論，助於雙方的技術交流。 
- 1 - 
QoS_GTE: A Centralized QoS Guaranteed Throughput Enhancement 
Scheduling Scheme for Relay-Assisted WiMAX Networks 
 
Chung-Ju Chang*, Chih-Ming Yen*, Fang-Ching Ren†, and Chia-Hsuan Chuang* 
*Department of Communication Engineering 
National Chiao Tung University 
Hsinchu, Taiwan 300 
Corresponding author: cjchang@cc.nctu.edu.tw 
†Information and Communication Research Laboratories 
Industrial Technology Research Institute 
Hsinchu, Taiwan 300 
 
Abstract − A centralized QoS guaranteed throughput 
enhancement (QoS_GTE) scheduling scheme for downlink 
relay-assisted WiMAX networks is proposed. The 
QoS_GTE consists of a transmission time based path 
selection algorithm (TT_PSA), a service order based 
resource allocation algorithm (SO_RAA), and a 
transmission concurrency decision algorithm (TCDA). The 
TT_PSA selects the path with the minimal transmission 
time for packets, which takes path loss, shadow fading, and 
interference into consideration. The SO_RAA gives high 
priority to urgent users and maximizes throughput under 
QoS satisfaction. The TCDA carries out flexible resource 
reuse by deciding which relay station (RS) can transmit 
concurrently using the same frequency and time slots. 
Simulation results show that the proposed QoS_GTE 
outperforms the scheme of without relay by an amount of 
63% and that of the LMP by an amount of 28%, in the 
system throughput. The QoS_GTE can also guarantee QoS 
requirements of real time services by 97%. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
In cellular networks, there has been a concern about the 
limited bandwidth and the weak SINR at edges of cells due to 
buildings, distance, interference, and so on. In order to extend 
the cell coverage and maintain the SINR with low upfront 
investment, WiMAX networks are designed with the assistant 
of relay technique, where the traffic signal can be relayed 
through one or more relay station (RS) as intermediate node(s). 
It is recognized that this relay structure combines advantages 
of both cellular and ad-hoc networks. The profit of using a RS 
is the lower complexity, the less power compared with a BS, 
and the absence of need for wired backhaul connection [1]. 
The most important cause of using the relaying technique 
comes from the reduction in the overall path loss between a BS 
and a MS. Another is the path diversity gain which can be 
achieved by selecting the most favorable path in shadowed 
environments. 
Choosing an optimal RS can have effective impacts on the 
overall performance improvement. In [2],[3], effects of two-
hop RS selection strategies on system performance had been 
studied. The authors proposed several different schemes for RS 
selection: selection based on distance, selection based on path 
loss, and then random selection. These schemes can improve 
the SINR, and the order from best to worst is: selection based 
on path loss, random selection, and selection based on physical 
distance. From the path loss based schemes, the least maximum 
path loss relaying node selection (LMP) can choose good 
channels with the percentage of 98%. In [4], the distance based 
selection was adopted under the assumption that the path loss 
exponent from the BS to the MS is larger than the path loss 
exponent from the BS to the RS. If the distance from the BS to 
the MS is greater than a certain distance, the BS will use the 
relay path for its transmission. However, if the path loss 
exponent from RS to MS is large enough, the total 
performance of relay path may not be good as it is expected.  
 Substantial throughput improvement can be additionally 
obtained by operating concurrent relaying transmission. The 
resource reuse is very crucial in the realization of the full 
potential of relay networks [5]-[6]. The previous schemes 
maximize the total transmission rate by finding a set of active 
links. However, it needs a complicated computation to get the 
set of active links because the mobility of relay node in mesh 
or ad-hoc networks. Also, there is a tradeoff between system 
throughput and the quality of service (QoS) in cellular 
networks. Challa and Cam [7] simulated the relay performance 
with only one traffic type, hence the quality of service (QoS) 
for different traffic type is ignored. However, Cho and Hass [5] 
had shown that in the multi-hop cellular networks, BS can 
choose to utilize the multi-hop relaying instead of the single 
hop direct transmission. Such a hybrid operation can be 
exploited to mitigate the unfairness in QoS among users. 
Therefore, QoS as well as system throughput in cellular 
network can be improved through the use of the relaying.  
In the paper, we propose a downlink centralized QoS 
guaranteed and throughput enhancement scheduling 
(QoS_GTE scheduling) scheme in WiMAX relay-assisted 
network. It is proven that the two-hop path is most efficient 
and easiest to implement in multi-hop relaying [5][8]. Thus the 
2-hop relay paths are considered in the paper. The QoS_GTE 
scheduling scheme includes three algorithms. First, a 
transmission time based path selection algorithm (TT_PSA) 
finds a best path for each MS based on the minimum 
transmission time. The TT_PSA makes a deliberate judgment 
in path selection by the transmission time, which is determined 
by the pathloss, the shadow fading and the interference. For 
QoS guarantee, a service order parameter is defined, which 
takes both priority and urgency into account as the foundation 
of the packets’ service order. Based on service order 
parameter, a service order based resource allocation algorithm 
(SO_RAA) manages the resource allocation, which not only 
guarantees the QoS requirements but also restrains the decline 
of the system throughput as possible as it can when QoS 
guarantee is done. The SO_RAA gives priority to MSs whose 
traffic constraint is going to be violated for the purpose of QoS 
guarantee. Later, MSs with best channel condition will get the 
resource for the purpose of the raise in the system throughput. 
Finally, a transmission concurrency decision algorithm 
(TCDA) compresses the used-resource by means of allowing 
several RSs transmit at the same time so as to make full 
utilization of radio resources. The TCDA uses the RSs location 
concept to determine which RSs can transmit at the same time 
without difficult computation. 
Simulation results show that the proposed QoS_GTE 
outperforms the without relay scheme and the LMP in terms of 
system. The QoS_GTE also guarantees the QoS requirements 
of real time services. The SO_RAA guarantees the QoS 
requirements and raises the throughput compared with that of 
the P_RAA at the same time, which balances the tradeoff 
between the QoS guarantee and system throughput. 
 
II. SYSTEM MODEL 
Consider a WiMAX relay_assisted cellular network in the 
urban area, where nineteen cells are wrapped around to imitate 
the condition with interference from cells. The frequency reuse 
- 3 - 
 ( ) ( ) ( )* *m p x u xS x p u= + , (5) 
where p(x) is the priority value of the packet for MS_m at the 
beginning of the xth-frame, u(x) is the urgency value of the 
packet for MS_m at the beginning of the xth-frame, p* is the 
maximum value of  p(x) and u* is the maximum value of  u(x). 
Usually, real-time packets such as voice or video have higher 
priority value than non-real-time packets. Also, in order to 
avoid the violation of QoS requirements of low priority 
packets, we advocate that the low priority traffic deserves 
being served with high service order when it is in an urgent 
condition. We given the low priority packet high urgency 
value. We take both the priority value and the urgency value 
together to decide which packet should be served immediately.  
In detail the urgency value u(x) is brought out and is defined 
as 
 ( ) ( ) ( )u x l x t x= + , (6) 
where the l(x) is the urgency value for a packet contributed by 
the remaining bits which are not transmitted yet at the 
beginning of the xth –frame, and the t(x) is the urgency value 
for a packet contributed by the delay time at the beginning of 
the xth –frame. The l(x) is given by 
 ( ) 1xL Cl x
L
−−= , (7) 
where L is the size of the packet and Cx-1 is the total bits that 
have been transmitted at the end of the (x-1)th–frame. The 
value of t(x) is determined according to the delay time that the 
packet undergoes. D* denotes maximum delay tolerance in the 
unit of frame. Suppose the number of level of t(x) is U* and we 
divide the D* into U* levels. The t(x) is set to be one when the 
delay of the packet at the xth –frame, denoted as d(x), is not 
greater than D* /2, which implies this packet is the less urgent 
one. Then we divide the other D* /2 range into (U*-1) parts 
equally and the values of t(x) are set to be two, three, …, and 
U*. The packet with t(x)=U* is approaching the delay upper 
bound D* and is so urgent to be served immediately. Notice 
that the method above only works when the delay constraint D* 
is larger than U*, the level of t(x). This concept can be 
expressed in mathematic equations given below. 
Where D* > U* 
 
( )
*
* * *
*
* *
* * *
* *
* *
* * *
* *
* * * *
* *
* *
1,      if ( )
1 2
2 11,  if ( )
1 2 1 2
3 22,  if ( )
1 2 1 2
1 22,         if ( )
1 2 1 2
DU D d x D
U
D DU D d x D
U U
D DU D d x Dt x U U
U D U DD d x D
U U
⎛ ⎞− × < ≤⎜ ⎟−⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞− − × < ≤ − ×⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟− −⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞− − × < ≤ − ×⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟= − −⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞ ⎛− −− × < ≤ − ×⎜ ⎟− −⎝ ⎠
M
*
1,          if  ( )  .
2
Dd x
⎧⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨⎪⎪⎪ ⎞⎪ ⎜ ⎟⎪ ⎝ ⎠⎪⎪ ≤⎪⎩
 (8) 
If we use the same mechanism to divide the urgency levels 
when the delay constraint D* is not larger than U*, it happens 
that the range of some level is a fraction of a frame. Since our 
minimum unit in scheduling is one frame, a fraction of a frame 
will never occur. For this reason we modify our mechanism 
when D* is not larger than U*. This concept can be expressed in 
mathematic modeling as below. 
When * * D U≤  
 ( )
* *
* *
* *
,         if  ( )
1,     if  ( ) 1
,  if  ( ) 0.
U d x D
U d x D
t x
U D d x
⎧ =⎪ − = −⎪= ⎨⎪⎪ − =⎩
#
 (9) 
As D* decreasing by one frame, t(x) also decreases one, 
t(x)=U*-1, and so on until x = 0. There are total D* +1 levels in 
t (x) and the difference of delay constraint between any two 
adjacent levels is one frame. 
The QoS constraint of HTTP is the minimum required 
transmission rate R*. If a packet with size L is transmitted at the 
rate R*, the transmission time for that packet is,  
 *
* (frames)
LD N
R
= × , (10) 
where N is the number of frame per second. In other words, D* 
is the maximum transmission time for a packet with size L. 
After having D*, all the process of obtaining t(x) is the same as 
real time traffic. Since FTP has no QoS requirements, its t(x) is 
set to be the lowest. 
For the purpose of QoS guarantee, the packets can be served 
first when their Sm(x) are larger than service order threshold Sth. 
Also, the service order of these high Sm(x) MSs is according to 
the Sm(x) in descending way. After QoS guarantee, the best 
first resource allocation [11] assigns the residual resource to 
other packets with good channel condition to enhance the total 
throughput.  
C. Transmission Concurrency Decision Algorithm (TCDA) 
The TCDA aims to find more than one RSs which can 
transmit concurrently so that the other original occupied 
resource can be removed for other transmitters to improve the 
spectrum efficiency. The steps of finding concurrency RSs for 
the reference RS (ref. RS) are as follows. First, the TCDA 
chooses active RSs whose angle separated from the ref. RSs 
are not less than 120∘as the ref. RS’s concurrency candidates. 
After the candidate selection, if these RSs which are 
120∘apart from the ref. RS, the TCDA will enable these two 
RSs to transmit with  the ref. RS concurrently with the 
transmission time which is maximum among those of these 
candidate RSs and ref. RS. 
Figure 2(a) shows an OFDMA frame before the TCDA 
operated, in which suppose RSa, RSi, and RSj can transmit 
concurrently. After the TCDA operation, as Figure 2(b) shown, 
RSa, RSi, and RSj transmit at the same time, and it makes 
original-occupied resources released. Note that the 
transmission time T is set to be TRa, where TRa is the 
maximum transmission time among TRa, TRi and TRj. The 
released resources can be utilized again by the SO_RAA.  
    
(a) 
  
(b) 
Figure 2.Transmission concurrency example. (a) an OFDMA 
frame before concurrency (b) an OFDMA frame after 
concurrency 
