1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
成果
報告 
超音波頸動脈之內膜自動化分析系統 
 
 
計畫類別：個別型計畫    
計畫編號：NSC   99-2221-E－039－012－ 
執行期間：99 年 8 月 1日至 100年 7 月 31日 
 
執行機構及系所：中國醫藥大學生物醫學影像暨放射科學系 
 
計畫主持人：程大川 
共同主持人：劉省宏、劉崇祥 
計畫參與人員： 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：精簡報告   
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
未出席國際學術會議 
 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  100年 11 月 4 日 
 
3 
 
 
超音波頸動脈之內膜自動化分析系統 
Automatic analysis system on intimal and adventitial layers of B-mode 
sonography 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-039-012- 
執行期限：99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：程大川 中國醫藥大學生物醫學影像暨放射科學系 
             E-mail: dccheng@mail.cmu.edu.tw 
共同主持人：劉省宏 朝陽科技大學資訊工程系 
                 劉崇祥 中國醫藥大學附設醫院神經內科 
 
 
中文摘要 
我們提出一個新的想法部份解決參數自動決定的
問題。這是在機器學習、影像處理及電腦視覺的
領域中經常面臨的難題。在本研究中，我們應用
本演算法於醫學序列影像處理中。它只需要在第
一張影像中以人工選擇一個較佳的結果，本演算
法就可依據此選擇，做出其後續影像處理所需的
參數組合並產生一個綜合的結果。此結果的誤差
落在一個可讓人接受的範圍內。通常是在誤差排
序的前 50%內。 
關鍵詞：自我學習、中間濾波器、參數自動決定 
Abstract—We propose a novel idea to partially solve 
the difficulty in parameter determination, which is 
one of the difficulties in the field such as machine 
learning, image processing, and computer vision. In 
this paper, we demonstrate how this algorithm is 
applied to medical image sequences processing. It 
needs only one example as a guide and a range for 
parameters and then it learns by itself. From the 
experiments we have made, this algorithm shows an 
inspiring result. The algorithm can produce good 
results from a set of results made by different 
parameter sets. The accuracy is near the best 
accuracy among all parameter sets.  
Keywords-self-learning; median filter; automated 
parameter determination 
1.  INTRODUCTION 
In the field of computer science especially 
machine learning, computer vision, and image 
processing needs algorithm to solve problems. Most 
of algorithms have parameters to be determined. 
Results made by different parameter values might be 
very different. Therefore, the parameter 
determination is a difficult and crucial process. The 
general method to solve this problem is using human 
brain as supervision. For instance, we can choose 
some samples to test. The results made by different 
parameter sets can be compared to the results made 
by experts‟ manual works. The parameter set of the 
best result usually has the least error among them. 
After the comparison, the optimal parameter set is 
chosen and fixed and usually never changed. 
However, two arguments raise: 1) Does the 
parameter set work well for the future samples? 2) If 
the condition changes, the “optimal” parameter set is 
no more optimal and it has to be renewed. The 
renewed process results in tremendous human loads. 
To explain more specifically, we use medical 
image analysis as an example. In the task of IMT 
(intima-media thickness) measurement, the 
sonographic images are the media to access the 
common carotid artery (CCA). Some algorithms have 
been developed to do this work [1-4]. All algorithms 
have parameters to be determined, no matter it is 
semi-automatic or fully automatic. In [1, 2], authors 
use experts‟ manual drawings on intima and 
adventitia to form a so-called “standard” lines. These 
standard lines are compared to the lines made by the 
algorithms and errors can be calculated. Furthermore, 
the parameter set having the least error is chosen and 
fixed for the future analysis. According to our 
experiences, it is possible that images obtained in the 
future are not well analyzed by this optimal 
parameter set. Therefore, parameters need to be tuned. 
Moreover, if the images are obtained from other 
ultrasonic machines, then the parameter set must be 
re-chosen via the same time-consuming process. To 
overcome this problem is very difficult. 
Our contributions in this study are two folds: 1) 
we do not need any manual drawing, which is a time-
consuming process. Instead, we need only one 
indication from an expert. The expert indicates which 
result is good among results made by all parameter 
sets. The algorithm is able to use the result as a good 
example as a standard and learn from it by itself. 2) 
we develop an algorithm that can automatically 
5 
 
results on the (i+1)-th image as well. The question is 
how to form the standard on the next image. 
In this paragraph the calculation of the standard 
on the next image is introduced. Our idea is to use 
the median curve among the „good‟ results produced 
by the current image using the parameter sets 
inherited from the previous image. To ease the 
explanation, we illustrate the averaged curve as an 
example. The averaged curve of the near wall intima 
is computed by minimizing the following cost 
equation: 
 (2) 
where  is the averaged curve of the near wall 
intima; k denotes the k-th parameter set inherited 
from the previous image; K=10 in this study (10% of 
100 results);  is the j-th y-coordinate of the „good‟ 
near wall intima curve; N is the curve length; the 
superscript n denotes the near wall; and  is the j-th 
y-coordinate of the averaged curve . To minimize 
the cost function one can derive the following 
equation: 
. (3) 
This is actually the mean of all y-coordinates from 
the K good curves. However, the average function 
will be affected by outliers. To alleviate this problem 
we apply the median filter. The median curve is 
defined to be: 
  for all k, (4) 
where “Med” denotes the median function. This is 
derived by re-defining the cost function to be: 
 (5) 
where  is the median curve of the near wall 
intima and  is its i-th y-coordinate. Via 
minimizing Eq. (5) the median curve can be 
calculated to be the standard of the current image. 
This is the self-learning process of this algorithm. 
From Eq. (2)-(5) we illustrate the equations for the 
near wall intima, it is the same computations for the 
far wall intima. 
     After the standard curve is formed, the algorithm 
will determine the parameters automatically. Since 
results made by all parameter sets are obtained on 
the current image and the standard curve is 
computed, the RMS error (Eq. (1)) between each 
resultant curve and the standard curve can be 
computed. Again, all errors are sorted and ten 
percent among them having the least RMS errors can 
be selected. The selected ten percent resultant curves 
have the most similarity to the standard curve 
computed in Eq. (4). Their corresponding parameter 
sets are thought to be „good‟ parameters for this 
current image. Therefore each image will have their 
optimal parameter sets. 
5. RESULTS 
Figure 1 illustrates a typical ultrasonic image of 
CCA. Since we have 100 parameter sets, the 
averaged RMS errors of total 251 images (in this 
sequence) can be computed. They are sorted and 
shown in figure 2. For the far wall (figure 2(a)), the 
minimal and maximal errors are 0.61and 0.84 pixel. 
The error of proposed method is 0.63 pixel. For the 
near wall (figure 2(b)), the minimal and maximal 
errors are 0.85 and 1.02 pixel. The error of the 
proposed method is 0.86 pixel. Although the 
proposed method does not produce the optimal result, 
however, it is near optimal. The accuracy results on 
two sequences in this study are shown in table I. 
Figure 3 shows the results made by one parameter 
set and the result made by the proposed median curve. 
They are superimposed on the same image. This 
example shows that a fixed parameter set is not the 
best one for all images. It is impossible to be so 
„lucky‟ that the fixed parameter set produce the 
optimal result for one sequence and for another one. 
However, the proposed scheme can determine the 
optimal or near optimal parameter sets to form a good 
result. Figure 3(a) demonstrates the near wall intima 
detection. The fixed parameter set is: 
. Figure 3(b) illustrates the 
far wall intima detection. The fixed parameter set is : 
. 
Figure 4 shows some results which are selected by 
the algorithm to form the median curve. Figure 4(a) 
demonstrates the near wall intima detection. The 
fixed parameter set is: . 
Figure 4(b) illustrates the far wall intima detection. 
The fixed parameter set is : . 
The computer system has Intel®  Core™ 2 Duo 
CPU P8400, 2.26 GHz, with 3 GB RAM. The 
programs are based on the Matlab platform [9]. The 
computation time for one image with a parameter set 
costs 0.7 seconds. Each image has to be executed 100 
times because there are 100 parameter sets. There are 
251 images in sequence 1. The total computation 
time for the 251-image sequence costs around five 
hours. 
6. DISCUSSIONS 
The advantage of the proposed method is that it 
does not need to choose the parameter values. Instead, 
it lets the algorithm to learn from a template which is 
a manual guide. It reduces the manual work. There 
are no manual drawings, which is a time-consuming 
process. Therefore it reduces a lot of experts‟ work 
time. The expert needs only to indicate which result 
is good on the first image and the algorithm will run 
fully automatically. The disadvantage is that it has to 
run through all possible parameter combinations. If 
the parameter dimension is too large, then the 
computation time is tremendous large. 
7 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 3. The comparison of the median results and 
single results. (a) Near wall intima. (b) Far wall 
intima. The solid line is the result made by single 
parameter set. The dash-line is the median result of 
the proposed method. 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 4. The comparison of the median results and 
single results. (a) Near wall intima. (b) Far wall 
intima. The solid line is the result made by single 
parameter set. The dash-line is the median result of 
the proposed method. 
 
7. CONCLUSION 
In this study we have proposed a novel method, 
which does not need to determine parameter values. 
Instead, it can determine the near optimal parameter 
sets to produce the result. Moreover, it does not need 
any experts‟ manual work to train the algorithm, 
which is time-consuming. Instead, it needs only one 
indication from the expert to select a good result 
from a result pool.  The algorithm will learn this 
template and select other similar results to form a 
parameter combinations set to inherit to the next 
processing. According to our experiments, we 
conclude that the proposed method can produce 
good, accurate, and repeatable results and reduce 
human loading. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported in part by the National 
Science Council (NSC), Taiwan, under Grant NSC 
99-2221-E-039-012. The authors thank Dr. Arno 
Schmidt-Trucksäss (University of Basel) for offering 
the sonographic images. 
 
8. 計畫成果自評 
本年度計畫為二年期之第一年，主要完成了對
於超音波頸動脈 B 模動態影像，在自動偵測近壁
及遠壁雙內膜所使用的參數自我調整，用來產生
近似最佳參數及近似最佳結果。我們同時將本研
究所產生的技術與德國 Ulm(烏爾姆)大學醫院放
射科 Uwe Schuetz 醫師及瑞士 Basel(巴塞爾)大
學醫院 Arno Schmidt-Trucksaess 醫師一起合
作，共同發表 2 篇國際期刊(SCI)，及國內會議 1
篇及國科會成果報告 2件，細目如下: 
國際期刊 
1. Da-Chuan Cheng*, Arno Schmidt-Trucksaess, 
Chung-Hsiang Liu, Shing-Hong Liu, 
“Automated Detection of the Arterial Inner 
Walls of the Common Carotid Artery Based on 
Dynamic B-Mode Signals,” SENSORS ，
2010，10(12):10601~10619. (SCI) 
2. Da-Chuan Cheng*, Christian Billich, Shing-Hong 
Liu, Horst Brunner, 邱義塵, 沈育玲, Hans Jurgen 
Brambs, Arno Schmidt-Trucksass, Uwe H.W. 
Schutz, “Automatic detection of the carotid artery 
boundary on cross-sectional MR image sequences 
using a circle model guided dynamic programming,” 
Biomedical Engineering Online，2011 Apr，10(26): 
1-16. (SCI) 
研討會論文 
1. 邱義塵, 沈育玲, U Schütz, 劉省宏, 程大川, 使用動
態規劃自動偵測頸部磁振照影之總頸動脈邊界 , 
2011 第六屆醫學影像暨放射科學國際研討會. 
2. Zao-Wei Zheng, Tsai-Yu Zhang, Da-Chuan Cheng*, 
“Use generalized median computation in self-
learning: Application on sonographic image 
analysis,” 2011 生物醫學工程科技研討會. 
3. Da-Chuan Cheng, “Automated Parameter 
Determination Using Generalized Median 
Computation in Self Learning,” 2011 生物醫學工
程科技研討會. 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/11/04
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 超音波頸動脈之內膜自動化分析系統
計畫主持人: 程大川
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-039-012- 學門領域: 醫學資訊
無研發成果推廣資料
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他協
助產業技術發展之具
體效益事項等，請以
文字敘述填列。) 
我們同時將本研究所產生的技術與德國 Ulm(烏爾姆)大學醫院放射科 Uwe 
Schuetz 醫師及瑞士 Basel(巴塞爾)大學醫院 Arno Schmidt-Trucksaess 醫師一
起合作﹐共同發表 2篇國際期刊(SCI) 
 
我們與德國 Ulm(烏爾姆)大學醫院有持續的合作關係﹐並已投稿 1篇 SCI 論文﹐
現在正在 revise 階段。 
 
另外我們也開拓新的合作對象﹕德國明斯特大學計算機系。預計於 2012~2013
年可以有共同發表的 SCI 論文。 
 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
