 II
中英文摘要 
中文摘要 
氣象學中熱帶氣旋在亞洲稱為颱風，是一種低氣壓的暴風系統，帶來強風、豪雨、水災、
海水倒灌等災難。在公共設施付之闕如的低開發國家中，颱風帶來的災害更為嚴重。為
了降低並避免以上災害，颱風的預測是很重要的一環。利用衛星影像來觀測、預測氣象
已經行之有年，我們提出一個利用衛星影像定位、特徵擷取並以XML格式儲存、傳送的方
法。藉由此方法能有效快速的以XML格式從資料庫搜尋特徵並找尋到颱風資料。為了進一
步減少呈現颱風所需要的資料量，我們以區塊重建方式來建構使用者欲搜尋的颱風，讓
使用者不必等待整張原始影像的下載即可檢視颱風衛星雲圖。 
 颱風定位為建構以上系統的重要環節，為了進一步開發可靠的系統，我們加強了颱
風影像的定位方式，並以MPEG-7紋理特徵的描述來輔助颱風定位。有別於過去我們使用
颱風的輪廓，紋理的描述更能分辨颱風與雲團的差別。 
關鍵詞：颱風影像辨識, 颱風中心定位, 颱風影像重建 
 
Abstract 
Typhoon is a storm system that produces violent winds and flooding rains. Moreover, 
typhoon inflicts terrible damage due to thunderstorms, violent winds, torrential rain, flooding 
and extremely high tides. Improving the early typhoon forecast capability is a key to the 
disaster prevention. Many scholars made efforts in locating typhoon center and developed 
reliable typhoon fast search methods.  
In this study, we implemented a system allows general public or meteorologist to check the 
continuous movement of typhoon images. To make such scenario possible, we extracted 
typhoon image features to recognize typhoons in the satellite images and stored typhoon 
related information using the descriptor by the XML syntax. XML is heavily used as format for 
document storage and sharing through internet because of its compatibility. Further more, in 
order to present the desired typhoon imaged of user’s selection without transmission of an 
entire satellite image, we used block patterns to reconstruct typhoon image to reduce 
transmission time. Since typhoon location is an important influencing factor, we proposed a 
method that applies MPEG-7 edge histogram descriptor to extract texture features for the 
enhancement of typhoon locating. 
Keywords: Typhoon recognition, typhoon center locating, typhoon image reconstruction,  
 1
一、前言 
在此計畫中，我們將紅外線衛星影像(IR)抽取颱風特徵，並以 XML 語法格式來描述、
紀錄。其中 XML 描述包括颱風中心位置、颱風半徑、雲團面積、颱風眼等等。藉由一系
列衛星影像計算，所提出的方法能夠計算和記錄颱風移動方向、行經路徑，和移動的大
略速度。 
 目前在網路上影像傳輸仍然不太有效率，特別是當用戶請求大量的影像傳輸。因此
我們提出一個方法，從紅外的衛星雲圖像中擷取並且使用 XML 語法描述。由於 XML 簡
單的資料呈現形式，使得需要傳輸的資料非常少。換句話說，若使用者請求某個連續颱
風路徑，我們可以很容易的根據 XML 描述並重建呈現給使用者，而不必下載整張影像。
另一個優點是，使用者可以根據颱風特定的資料找出他們感興趣的颱風。例如，使用者
可能想知道颱風暴風半徑超過 50 公里的颱風。我們只需搜尋標籤 radius 中大於 50 的颱
風，即可重建颱風呈現於使用者的顯示裝置上。 
 
二、研究目的 
自舊蘇聯於 1957 年發射人類史上第一顆人造衛星史波尼克號開始，人類正式進入太空時
代，列強間的太空競賽於焉展開，太空計畫中諸如美國的雙子星、阿波羅登月計畫等皆
是為人所耳熟能詳的。人造衛星依其用途區分，一般可概分為三種： 
1. 通訊衛星：作為電訊中繼站，用來傳遞聲訊、視訊信號，如亞衛一號。 
2. 定位衛星：即為一般人所熟知之全球定位系統，美國之全球定位系統由 24 枚衛星所
組成，可在百萬之一秒內對目標進行定位，誤差在數公尺之內。俄羅斯之定位衛星
系統稱為 GLONASS 亦由 24 枚衛星組成，誤差在 50 公尺左右。 
3. 觀測衛星：可用來觀測大氣或天文物理(又稱科學衛星或資源衛星)、及觀測地表圖
像，如美國之 LANDSAT 系列衛星、法國 SPOT 系列衛星、以及最近發射之 IKONOS
衛星等。 
衛星可就其偵測能量之主動／被動方式加以區分，一般而言，利用可見光段及近紅
外線光段偵測地表能量之衛星皆為被動式衛星，因為衛星本身無需對所欲觀測之物體發
射能量，僅需對藉由日光照射地表所反射出之能量加以接收，其原理近似於在日光充足
之場所進行照相（無需閃光燈），在陰天或雨天，這種感光器的操作會受到嚴重的影響。
空中偵察員長久以來的夢想：不論天氣及明亮度如何，都能在空中操作攝取地表照片的
神奇照相機，便無法實現了。而主動式衛星則需對所欲偵測之物體發射電磁波，進而接
收其反射能量。 
運用衛星來進行地形地貌及氣候觀測已有相當長的歷史，但為了解海水鹽分濃度與
氣候變化的關係，美國噴射推進實驗室計畫於 2008 年發射一枚 Aquarius 衛星，進行為期
三年海水鹽分濃度的觀測，以提供海水鹽分濃度與氣候變化的研究之用，本計劃擬透過
國際合作，藉由接取 Aquarius 衛星所得之資料，進行相關之研究。 
在這個計畫中，我們希望藉由衛星所傳回來之影像，建立及維護一個長期的衛星影
 3
 
 
圖二: 四種邊緣偵測 mask 
 
每個颱風候選區域經過這四種 mask 的計算後我們會得到四個象限的紋理方向分佈，
因為颱風在衛星影像上呈現旋轉的紋理特性，因此我們將四個象限的紋理主要方向擷取
出來，為了找出颱風影像主要方向的分佈，我們將所蒐集的颱風影像資料庫中，包含有
颱風的衛星影像經過紋理方向的擷取計算，找出表一的紋理分佈統計。 
 
表一: 四個象限的紋理分佈 
Quadrant Horizontal Vertical 45 135 
I 22.5% 23% 16.9% 29.1%
II 18.7% 26.4% 26.3% 18% 
III 28.3% 18.2% 21.7% 21.6%
IV 17.9% 33% 27.3% 18.8%
 
經過計算之後我們可以得到四個象限的紋理分佈，經由演算法的訓練及統計後，我
們發現在颱風候選區域中若有颱風的話，分別在四個象限中其主要紋理方向，會是 135
度、垂直或 45 度、水平以及垂直。但是颱風的尾端往往是很難預測的，因此在颱風判別
中，我們設定成若颱風候選區域經過此計算後，有三個象限符合我們統計的結果，則我
們將此後選區域視為颱風。 
 
3. 颱風衛星影像的描述 
原始的衛星影像經過定位後接著我們必須找出颱風的特徵並紀錄之。颱風雲團區域我們
是以颱風定位後侵蝕運算的結果來決定，而颱風半徑則是以最大內接圓的半徑來紀錄。 
 為了提供使用者重建颱風，我們使用第二年計畫中所發展的方法來紀錄颱風區塊
[1-4]，每個區塊必須與事先建立好的 2x2 密碼簿(code books)做最小距離的比較，這些資
訊接著會被紀錄到 XML 描述格式中，使用者可以藉由這些記錄和自己的需求來重建颱風
影像。 
 下面是兩個颱風紀錄成 XML 的例子: 
<? xml="1.0" encoding="big5"?>  
<root> 
<clouds_1>   
  <common_info> 
     <date>09/15 20:00</date>  
0 2
2 0
0 2
2 0
1 1 
-1 -1 
1 1
1 -1
 5
離計算，我們能得到颱風移動方向和大概的移動距離。當在衛星影像之間的計算量增加
時，這資訊將越來越準確。XML描述格式的標籤move_ x 和move_ y可以表示x軸和y軸上
的移動距離。TW_distance標籤表示在台灣和颱風之間的距離。這些資訊是給於使用者查
詢的條件之一，而同樣的，我們以Guam_distance代表關島和颱風之間的距離。這是因為
西太平洋颱風大部份生成在關島周遭。  
颱風影像重建部份是屬於前端界面。表示介面表現方式必須儘可能提供給使用者訊
息。而颱風特徵庫只紀錄原來影像擷取後的 XML 檔案。在 codebook 中的 Codevectors 則
是經由 LBG 演算法找出具代表性的 128 個 Codevector。一些雲圖 pattern 如圖三所示。 
 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
圖三: 重建用的颱風雲圖區塊 
   
當這些特徵擷取下來後，系統接著能接受使用者請求。在各種颱風資訊中，大多數
的民眾對於颱風路徑最感興趣。透過連續的颱風位置定位，我們能建構出一個系列的颱
風中心然後描繪一條路徑。兩副颱風衛星影像之間的時間間隔是 1 個小時，大多數颱風
在衛星影像只移到 2~6 個像素，這些資訊已經能讓我們描繪出一條非常清楚的颱風中心
移動軌跡[5]。 
我們提供了操作界面，讓使用者可以選擇所關心的地理區域。系統會擷取此範圍的
位置資訊，(x1，y1)以及(x2，y2)。接著系統會找出 XML 特徵資料庫中，標籤 typhoon_center
中其值介於(x1，y1)以及(x2，y2)的所有颱風影像，並且再根據使用者其他需求，如半徑
大小、路徑方向等來進行相關颱風影像的重建。圖四為使用者選取區域後的例子。 
 7
圖六: 使用者選擇颱風資料後重建颱風的例子 
 
圖七: 使用者重建颱風後的例子 
 
五、結果與討論 
在這個災害預警系統的建構當中，簡化衛星影像天氣狀況的描述並快速重建颱風影
像是一個研究的方向。在今年的研究當中，我們將颱風的特徵抽取出來以 XML 語法儲存，
並提供使用者適當的介面可以經由使用者所感興趣的區域和颱風資訊來進行颱風影像重
建。另外我們提出以紋理分析為基礎的方式來增強颱風定位，在原來的衛星影像資料庫
基礎上，加上最近一年所蒐集的衛星影像，其颱風正確辨識率由去年的 76%提昇到 81% 
 
六、參考文獻 
 [1] Jun-Heng Yeh, Tsang-Long Pao, Chung-Lang Lee, and Wei-Ta Lai,“Reconstruction of 
Typhoon Path and Cloud Image from Descriptors,” the 2007 IEEE International 
 9
Developing Typhoon,” Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Machine 
Learning and Cybernetics, vol. 8, pp. 5229–5234, 2005. 
 [16] Z. Liu, B. Wu and J. Xue, “The Non-eye typhoon Center Locating with Parallel 
Computing,” Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Parallel and 
Distributed Computing, Applications and Technologies, pp. 488–491, 2003. 
 [17] H.S. Lim, G.H. Choi, and H.Y. Paik, “Characteristic Structures of Typhoon Jelawat 
Observed by OSMI, TRMM/PR and QuikSCAT,” Proceedings of Geoscience and 
Remote Sensing Symposium, vol. 2, pp. 661–663, 2001. 
 [18] R.S.T. Lee and J.N.K. Liu, “An Elastic Contour Matching Model for Tropical Cyclone 
Pattern Recognition”, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, pp. 
413–417, 2001. 
 [19] T. Hiraoka, H. Maeda, and N. Ikoma, “Two-stage Prediction Method of Typhoon Position 
by Fuzzy Modeling - Fusion of Outline Prediction and Detailed Prediction,” Proceedings 
of Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, vol. 6, pp. 581–585, 1999. 
 [20] J.C.H. Poon, C.P. Chau, and M. Ghadiali., “Using Fuzzy Mathematical Morphology for 
Locating Tropical Cyclones in Satellite Imagery”, IEEE International Symposium on 
Circuits and Systems, vol. 2, pp. 1353-1356, 1997. 
 [21] C.J. Zhang, C.J. Duanmu, and H.Y. Chen, “Typhoon Image Segmentation by Combining 
Curvelet Transform with Continuous Wavelet Transform,” Wavelet Analysis and Pattern 
Recognition, vol. 4, Issue 2-4, pp.1512–1517, 2007. 
 11
附錄 
相關論文發表 
 
1. Tsang-Long Pao and Jun-Heng Yeh, “Typhoon Locating and Reconstruction from the 
Infrared Satellite Cloud Image,” Journal of Multimedia (JMM), Jun. 2008. 
2. Jun-Heng Yeh, Tsang-Long Pao, Chung-Lang Lee, and Wei-Ta Lai,“Reconstruction of 
Typhoon Path and Cloud Image from Descriptors,” the 2007 IEEE International 
Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics (SMC 2007), Oct. 2007.  
3. Tsang-Long Pao, Jun-Heng Yeh, Min-Yen Liu, and Yung-Chang Hsu, “Locating the 
Typhoon Center from the IR Satellite Cloud Images,” the 2006 IEEE International 
Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics (SMC2006), pp.484-488, Oct. 2006. 
4. Tsang-Long Pao, Jun-Heng Yeh, Min-Yen Liu, and Yung-Chang Hsu, “Extracting Features 
of Typhoon from the IR Satellite Cloud Images,” the 4th International Conference on 
Education and Information Systems, Technologies and Applications (EISTA'06), July 
2006. 
 
  
 (a). Original satellite cloud 
image 
 (b). Satellite cloud image after 
luminance scaling 
Figure 1.  Luminance scaling of a satellite cloud image. 
 
Figure 2. Binary image after erosion operation. 
 
Figure 3. Binary image after region growing operation. 
background. Finally, we reconstructed the typhoon image 
with peripheral clouds in regions of interest and 
resolutions required using the vector quantization 
technique. 
This paper is organized as follows: Section II 
introduces several pre-processing methodologies, 
including filtering, smoothing and segmentation on 
satellite cloud images and the framework of our proposed 
feature extracting method. Section III presents the 
proposed typhoon image reconstruction method. Section 
IV gives experimental results of our proposed typhoon 
locating method to recognize and locate typhoons with 
eyes or without eyes occurred in recent years. Some 
reconstructed typhoon images are also shown in this 
section. In Section V, conclusion and future work are 
given. 
II.  THE TYPHOON LOCATION METHOD 
In this paper, we used typhoon and hurricane satellite 
cloud images from the Central Weather Bureau of 
Taiwan (http://www.cwb.gov.tw/) and National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) of the United 
States (http://www.goes.noaa.gov). The collected data 
include 24 hours continuous images, with one picture per 
hour sampling frequency. 
A.  Image Luminance Scaling 
In the infrared satellite image, the cloud temperature is 
represented by gray-level value. Satellite cloud images 
received are transferred into 256 (0-255) level of gray-
scale digital images. Fig. 1(a) shows an original satellite 
image. Due to the effect of image compression, the 
satellite images from different years, sessions or database 
might have different luminance. Therefore, the luminance 
scaling of the satellite images is necessary before typhoon 
recognition stage. A luminance scaling method is used to 
adjust the gray-scale value of the image. The purpose of 
this method is to linearly scale the pixel value such that 
the largest gray-scale value of the image is mapped to 
255. After the scaling processing, image luminance is 
normalized. Given P be the original satellite image and S 
the image after performing the luminance scaling. 
Luminance scaling function is defined as 
255
max( )i
S P
P
=
, (1) 
where Pi is the pixel value of the original satellite image. 
Fig. 1(b) is an example after luminance scaling. 
B.  Erosion and Region Growing 
Usually, there are scattering clouds and latitude and 
longitude lines in the satellite image. Image binarization 
processing and mathematical morphology erosion 
operation are applied to reduce these noises. Given A  the 
satellite image after binarization, and B the structuring 
element, and the erosion of set A by set B is a set of all 
points x such that B translated by x is still contained in A. 
The mathematical definition of erosion is defined as, 
 ( ){ }: xx
x B
A B x B A A
∈
Θ = ⊆ = I . (2) 
After the erosion process, the satellite image may still 
have some scattered clouds. In order to construct the 
connected region and eliminate the scattered portions, the 
region growing technique is applied. In this paper, we 
used 8-connectivity region growing to find each 
connected region. The 8-connectivity is defined as 
( ) ( ) ( ){ ( ) ( ) }8 4   1, 1 , 1, 1 , 1, 1 , 1, 1 ,N p N x y x y x y x y= − + − − + + + −U ,(3) 
where p is the seed point with the coordinate (x, y). A set 
of pixels in an image which are all connected to each 
other is called the connected component. After the region 
growing, the small fractal regions can be eliminated 
because most typhoon regions are larger than a threshold, 
a 30×30 pixels region according to the resolution of the 
satellite image used in this research. The results of image 
erosion and region growing in a binary satellite cloud 
image are shown in Fig. 2 and 3. 
 
 
C.  Typhoon Candidate Segmentation 
We applied a typhoon candidate segmentation method 
to segment out the possible typhoon cloud regions in a 
satellite image [6]. The typhoon cloud is generally 
rotating circularly with respect to the typhoon center. 
When the typhoon cloud and other types of cloud are 
mixed together, the largest circular cloud region may 
include the main body of the typhoon. And we try to use 
46 JOURNAL OF MULTIMEDIA, VOL. 3, NO. 2, JUNE 2008
© 2008 ACADEMY PUBLISHER
 Figure  6. Typhoon image encoding procedure. 
 
Figure  7. Typhoon image decoding procedure. 
A.  Typhoon Image Encoding using Vector Quantization 
Vector Quantization is a very efficient compression 
technique. Figure 6 shows the typhoon image encoding 
procedure using vector quantization. Firstly, the image is 
divided into blocks. In this paper, the block size is set to 
8×8 pixels. Each 8×8 pixels block is rearranged as a 64-
dimensional input vector. The closest codevector for the 
input vector corresponding to the codebook is obtained 
from table lookup. In the codebook design phase, we use 
738 satellite cloud images as the training set and used the 
Linde-Buzo-Gray (LBG) algorithm to obtain the most 
representative codevectors to form the codebook. 
B.  Image Division and Block Expanding 
After binarization procedure mentioned in Section II.B, 
the resulting image is an image whose pixels have only 
two possible values. They are normally displayed as 
black and white. Those 8×8 blocks which include more 
than one white pixel are extracted from the original image. 
Here, each block is an image with 8×8 pixels. In addition, 
the coordinate Gi(x, y) of the 8×8 block would be stored 
at the same time, where Gi is the stored block. Then the 
block will be reorganized as an 1×64 vector according to 
row-major order. 
C.  Minimal Square Euclidean Distance Computation 
The codebook used in vector quantization is a set of 
representative image blocks. These representative image 
blocks in a codebook are called codevectors, noted as Vi, 
i = 1, 2, 3, …, m. In order to find the most appropriate 
codevector for the input vector, we calculate the square of 
the Euclidean distance (SED) between the input vector 
and each vector in the codebook. 
Given two L-dimensional input vectors Gi = (g1, g2, 
g3, …, gL) and codeword Vi = ( v1, v2,v3, …, vL), the SED 
between G and V, is denoted as,  
 
2
1
( , ) ( )
L
SED i i
i
d G V x y
=
= −∑
. (9) 
In this paper, m = 128 and L = 64 are used. 
Next, we used the index pi of the codeword Vi to the 
substitute Gi. Lastly, all image blocks, G1, G2, …, Gr, 
where r is the total number of blocks, are transferred into 
indices p1, p2, …, pr. The coordinate of each block will 
also be recorded in addition to the index to the codebook.  
D.  Typhoon Image Encoding 
The receiver of a vector quantization system received 
block indexes and coordinates through data transmission 
channel as shown in Fig. 7. The block index is used to 
find the vector from the codebook. The block 
corresponding to the index is replaced by the vector 
retrieved from the codebook. And all codevectors are 
transformed from vector to block form. Finally, the 
satellite image containing only the typhoon region could 
be reconstructed. The latitudes, longitudes and 
continental contour in the encoding process were omitted. 
An image with the latitude and longitude lines and 
continental contour were used as the base image in the 
reconstruction process. 
E.  Reconstruction of Typhoon Image with Surrounded 
Cloud and Demanded Region 
The device receiving the reconstructed images may have 
limited communication bandwidth. Moreover, the user 
may only have interest in a specific region where the 
typhoon occurred. Our proposed typhoon image 
reconstruction method can provide three choices of 
selected regions depending on the user’s requests. The 
first one is limited to the typhoon’s radius. The second 
choice includes the typhoon and its surrounding clouds. 
The third one is to select by a specific region with 
surrounding clouds. The second and third choices used 
the region growing method mentioned in Section II.B to 
find the connected regions in the satellite cloud image.  
IV.  EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
In order to verify the effectiveness of our proposed 
method, we collected typhoon and hurricane infrared 
satellite images from the Central Weather Bureau of 
Taiwan and National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration (NOAA) of the United States. The 
database includes 24 hours continuous images with one 
picture per hour sampling frequency from 1995 to 2006. 
The infrared satellite image is a 256-gray-scale digital 
image in JEPG formant. The gray-scale value of the 
image is set as the inverse proportional to the cloud 
temperature. In the testing database, we collected 959 
images from 71 typhoons, and each typhoon has a series 
of infrared satellite images from the mature period to the 
decaying period. 
After applying the image processing and mathematic 
morphology techniques mentioned in Sections II and III, 
the features extract from slices of typhoon cloud images 
can be used to locate typhoons and reconstruct typhoon 
images. The main typhoon locating and image 
reconstructing procedures are stated as follows. 
48 JOURNAL OF MULTIMEDIA, VOL. 3, NO. 2, JUNE 2008
© 2008 ACADEMY PUBLISHER
  
 (a). The original image.  (b). The reconstruction of typhoon 
image with the typhoon’s radius. 
Figure  11. Reconstruction of typhoon image with the typhoon’s radius. 
 
 
(a) The original image.  (b) The reconstruction of typhoon 
image with a typhoon and the 
surrounding clouds. 
Figure  13. Reconstruction of typhoon image with a selected region and 
the surrounding clouds. 
 
 
(a). The original image.  (b). The reconstruction of typhoon 
image with a typhoon and the 
surrounding clouds. 
Figure  12. Reconstruction of typhoon image with a typhoon and the 
surrounding clouds. 
of typhoon image with a selected region and the 
surrounding clouds.  
V.  CONCLUSIONS AND FEATURE WORKS 
In this paper, we proposed a method to effectively 
recognize, locate typhoons and reconstruct typhoon 
images from the satellite image database. In typhoon 
recognition, the proposed method achieved 82% accuracy 
recognizing rate using the morphology operations and 
statistical image classification methods. In the image 
compression, the vector quantization technique is used. 
And the LBG vector quantization algorithm was 
implemented for the typhoon image reconstruction. Our 
typhoon image reconstruction method is mainly focused 
on the requirement of a mobile device which may have 
smaller memory or be in a low bandwidth transmission 
environment. We hope to help the user to get the useful 
typhoon information from the reconstructed typhoon 
image easily. 
The features from slices reflect the innate 
characteristics that the wind of typhoon is rotating around 
it’s center. Comparing with other typhoon locating 
methods based on the visible characteristics, such as, 
eyed section, obdurate cloud wall, spiral cloud belt, and 
rotation features, our proposed method could identify the 
typhoon clouds easily and fast without complex 
computing. More accurate and faster typhoon locating 
method will helpful to locate series of typhoon satellite 
images in order to track the path of a typhoon in 
continuous images. According to our experimental results, 
we can locate typhoon precisely even the typhoon 
without eye and at the beginning gesture or final decaying 
stage. Therefore, the typhoon locating method presented 
in this paper can be applied to recognize and locate 
typhoons in different types and at different stages of 
development. 
We also found out some other distinctive features from 
slices of typhoon satellite cloud images, especially the 
rotation feature of wind movement vector. Combining the 
typhoon features extracting from slices of satellite cloud 
images is proven to be an effective method to locate 
typhoons. Additional research focusing on these aspects 
would be of great interest and value to extract the features 
of weather condition from satellite images based on 
MPEG-7 descriptors. And the descriptors will be stored 
in the XML document form for easy interpretation among 
different operation environments. The fusion data of 
different sources of climate information should prove 
quite beneficial to recognize and locate typhoons.. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors wish to thank National Science Council of 
Taiwan, R.O.C. This work was supported in part by the 
grant from NSC 96-2745-E-036-003-URD. 
REFERENCES 
[1] V.F. Dvorak, “Tropical Cyclone Intensity Analysis and 
Forecasting from Satellite Imagery,” Monthly Weather 
Review, vol. 103, no. 5, pp. 420–430, 1975. 
[2] C.L. Yip and K.Y. Wong, “Efficient and Effective Tropical 
Cyclone Eye Fix using Genetic Algorithms,” Springer-
Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, pp. 654–660, 2004. 
[3] S.T. Lee and N.K. Liu, “Tropical Cyclone Identification 
and Tracking System using Integrated Neural Oscillatory 
Elastic Graph Matching and Hybrid RBF Network Track 
Mining Techniques,” IEEE Transactions on Neural 
Networks, vol. 11, issue 3, pp. 680–689, 2000. 
[4] Q.P. Zhang, L.L. Lai, and H. Wei, “Continuous Space 
Optimized Artificial Ant Colony for Real-Time Typhoon 
Eye Tracking,” Systems, Man and Cybernetics, pp. 1470–
1475, 2007. 
[5] C.J. Zhang, C.J. Duanmu, H.Y. Chen, “Typhoon Image 
Segmentation by Combing Curvelet Transform with 
Continuous Wavelet Transform,” Wavelet Analysis and 
50 JOURNAL OF MULTIMEDIA, VOL. 3, NO. 2, JUNE 2008
© 2008 ACADEMY PUBLISHER
 
 
  
Abstract—In this paper, we propose a novel method to 
reconstruct the path and contour of a typhoon in a satellite 
image using mathematical morphology and descriptors. 
Generally, it is hard to depict the contour and path of a typhoon 
by a simple way in the satellite images. Especially, if we would 
like to track changes of a typhoon in the visual successive 
movement form on a browser or mobile device through the 
network in real time, it is necessary to reduce the resolution of 
satellite images. Our proposed method makes it possible to 
carry out such a task without complicated computing. First, we 
apply features extracted from the infrared (IR) satellite cloud 
images to identify and locate typhoons automatically. Next, we 
reconstruct an approximate contour and reliable movement 
path of a typhoon by cloud pattern descriptors. Our proposed 
method simplifies the feature representation of a typhoon shape 
and improves the efficiency of the typhoon contour 
reconstruction. Moreover, the proposed method can be applied 
to improve analysis and prediction of typhoon trace. We used 
our proposed method to track typhoon paths and reconstruct 
typhoon contour images occurred in recent years and achieved 
some satisfactory results. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
N recent years, satellite image technologies have been 
extensively applied to diverse fields. One of the most 
important applications of satellite image technology is to 
track the path of typhoons. With their obvious swirling and 
eddying cloud shape and remarkable central eye, tropical 
cyclones are the most conspicuous meteorological 
phenomenon to be identified in a satellite image. Numerous 
scholars also have devoted themselves to estimate the 
movement and intensity of tropical cyclones from satellite 
images. The pervasive procedure of the weather forecast 
system is to locate and track the tropical cyclone in the IR 
satellite cloud images. That would be beneficial to reinforce 
analysis and prediction of typhoon direction. 
Typhoon at the mature period has three significant 
characters: eyed section, obdurate cloud wall and integrated 
spiral cloud band. They are three important symptoms for 
meteorologists to recognize and locate typhoon. The elliptic 
contour and the cloud motion wind vectors encircled around 
the central eye are always manifesting in a typhoon satellite 
cloud image [1]. One of the most widely accepted techniques 
for the identification and classification of tropical cyclones 
 
Tsang-Long Pao is with the Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering, Tatung University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC (phone: 
+886-2-21822928 ext. 6561; e-mail: tlpao@ttu.edu.tw).  
Jun-Heng Yeh is currently a PhD student in the Department of Computer 
Science and Engineering, Tatung University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC (e-mail: 
d9306002@ms2.ttu.edu.tw). 
Chung-Lang Lee and Wei-Ta Lai are currently graduate students in the 
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Tatung University, 
Taipei, Taiwan, ROC (e-mail: g9406021, g9506021@ms2.ttu.edu.tw) 
from satellite cloud images is the Dvorak technique [2], 
which assigns a wind intensity value, “T-numbers”, based on 
the vortices of the dense cloud shield adjacent to the center of 
the storm. The critical problem of the Dvorak technique is 
how to determine the wind force depended on the rotation 
features of the clouds of the matching circle templates. In 
order to solve this problem, Raymond et al. used an elastic 
graph dynamic link model to provide an automated pattern 
matching solution in the Dvorak analysis [3]. 
Some scholars attempted to find out essential typhoon 
features from satellite cloud images [4-9] to identify and track 
typhoon. According to the conclusions of those researches, a 
common consensus is highlighted, that is the feature 
extraction procedure is important if we would like to 
reconstruct typhoon cloud image and movement path. The 
method proposed in this paper is mainly based on image 
processing techniques, mathematical morphology and 
descriptors using XML. Our proposed method expects to 
simplify the representation of typhoon cloud image and 
accelerate the efficiency of typhoon image reconstruction. 
This paper is organized as follows: In Section 2, the 
method of locating the typhoon center from the IR satellite 
cloud images is addressed. Section 3 presents the typhoon 
cloud image reconstruction procedure. We also reconstruct 
several representative typhoon images and the tracking path 
of typhoons in a serious of successive satellite cloud images. 
Finally, conclusions and future works are discussed in 
Section 4. 
II. LOCATING THE TYPHOON CENTER FROM THE IR 
SATELLITE CLOUD IMAGES 
In order to improve the recognition accuracy and reduce 
the computational complexity, we applied a typhoon feature 
extraction method from the slices of IR satellite cloud images 
[10]. 
The IR satellite cloud images provided by the Central 
Weather Bureau of Taiwan were used to test our proposed 
typhoon recognition and locating method. Satellite cloud 
image with one picture per hour sampling frequency acquired 
from the Central Weather Bureau of Taiwan is a 
256-gray-scale digital image in JPEG formant. However, the 
satellite image luminance may be altered by image 
compression. Furthermore, the satellite images chosen from 
different years, sessions or databases have different 
luminance distribution characteristics. Therefore, the 
luminance scaling of images is necessary. For each satellite 
image, it is given Fo be the original pixel value of gray scale 
satellite image, the scaling of luminance of Fo can be 
calculated as 
Reconstruction of Typhoon Path and Cloud Image from Descriptors 
Jun-Heng Yeh, Tsang-Long Pao, Member, IEEE, Chung-Lang Lee, and Wei-Ta Lai 
I 
20971-4244-0991-8/07/$25.00/©2007 IEEE
 
 
III. RECONSTRUCTION OF TYPHOON PATH AND 
CLOUD IMAGE 
In Session 2, the recognition and location of typhoon 
peripheral region are studied. Furthermore, the tracking path 
is simultaneously obtained when we locate the typhoon eye 
region from analyzing a serious of successive satellite cloud 
images. Nonetheless, users may only want to observe a 
specified weather phenomenon (i.e. the path of typhoon) via 
satellite images, we still need to process all information of 
weather phenomena in a satellite image even some 
information is insignificant for the demand. To this purpose, 
we try to separate different gray-level clouds in the same 
satellite image. In this paper, we use descriptors in XML 
syntax to descript the features of typhoon peripheral clouds. 
One simple example is as follows: 
 
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="Big5" ?><root> 
<cloud_1> 
             <cloud_typhoon_feature> ture </cloud_typhoon_feature>   
   <cloud_area> 67 </cloud_area>  
   <cloud_center> x=152 y=270 </cloud_center>   
   <cloud_block_information> 
       <block_coordinate_sequence>  
((138,194), (146,194), (154,194), (106,202), (114,202),…, 
(194,290)) 
       </block_coordinate_sequence > 
       <block_pattern_index_sequence> 
(015, 007, 121, 054, 065, 031,…, 055, 104)  
</block_pattern_index_sequence > 
   </cloud_block_information>  
 </cloud_1> 
<cloud_2>   
<cloud_typhoon_feature> false </cloud_typhoon_feature> 
   <cloud_area> 21 </cloud_area>  
   <cloud_center> x=273 y=268 </cloud_center>   
      <cloud_block_information> 
       <block_coordinate_sequence>  
((240,254), (224,262), (232,262), (240,262), (248,270),…, 
(328,282)) 
       </block_coordinate_sequence > 
       <block_pattern_index_sequence> 
(002, 077, 025, 081, 108, 073,…, 045, 067)  
</block_pattern_index_sequence > 
   </cloud_block_information>  
 </cloud_2> 
</root> 
 
The latitude/longitude location and the block information, 
including typhoon feature, area number, and pattern index of 
clouds are recorded. Some cloud patterns are shown in Figure 
2. All of cloud patterns are stored as 8×8 pixels in BMP form. 
To avoid the uncoordinated luminance problem, the 
luminance scaling of images as Session 2 is carried out. There 
are 256 slices of different types of clod images are 
compressed by using vector quantization (VQ) technique in 
our database. As we determine the typhoon cloud candidate 
region, the original typhoon peripheral clouds will be 
synthesized using the cloud patterns in the codebook rather 
than the original typhoon image. Therefore, the refined or 
coarse resolution of demanded image can be achieved easily. 
The reconstructed typhoon image is a combination of 
different types of cloud images described using descriptors by 
XML as shown in Figures 3-6. It is easy to highlight the 
designate weather phenomenon region which we are 
interested in. Instead of processing a patch of complete digital 
cloud images, the proposed typhoon reconstruction method 
tries to choose sufficient amount of pieces of associated 
image fragments to denote an entire typhoon image. And it is 
also very plastic to present the beginning gesture, the mature, 
or the final decaying stage of a typhoon in different image 
resolution. 
 
Fig. 2. Cloud pattern samples 
 
 
 
 
2099
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors are thankful to the National Science Council of 
Taiwan, R.O.C., for financial supports of this work (grant no. 
NSC-95-2745-E-036-003-URD).. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Adams, I.S.   Hennon, C.C.   Jones, W.L.   Ahmad, K.A., “Evaluation of 
hurricane ocean vector winds from WindSat,” IEEE Transactions on 
Geoscience and Remote Sensing, Vol 44, Issue 3, Page(s): 656-667, 
Mar. 2006. 
[2] V. F. Dvorak, “A technique for the analysis and forecasting of tropical 
cyclone intensities from satellite pictures,” U.S. Dept. Commerce, 
Washington, D.C., NOAA Tech. Memo. NESS 45, 1973. 
[3] Raymond S. T. Lee and James N. K. Liu, “An elastic contour matching 
model for tropical cyclone pattern recognition,” IEEE Transactions on 
Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Page(s): 413-417, 2001. 
[4] J.C.H. Poon, C.P. Chau, M. Ghadiali, “Using fuzzy mathematical 
morphology for locating tropical cyclones in satellite imagery,” IEEE 
International Symposium on Circuits and Systems, Vol. 2, Page(s): 
1353- 1356, 1997. 
[5] Q.P. Zhang, L.L. Lai, W.C. Sun, “Intelligent Location of Tropical 
Cyclone Center,” Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference 
on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Vol. 1 , Page(s): 423-428, 2005. 
[6] P. Wang , P.L. Yamg, W. L. Li, H.Q. Lu, “Extracting the Rotation 
Feature of the Developing Typhoon,” Proceedings of the Fourth 
International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Vol. 
8, Page(s): 5229-5234, 2005. 
[7] Q.P. Zhang, L.L. Lai, W.C. Sun, “Intelligent Location of Tropical 
Cyclone Center,” Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference 
on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Vol. 1, Page(s): 423-428, 2005. 
[8] Z. Liu, B. Wu and J. Xue, “The Non-eye typhoon Center Locating with 
Parallel Computing,” Proceedings of the Fourth International 
Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing, Applications and 
Technologies, Page(s): 488-491, 2003. 
[9] H.S. Lim, G.H. Choi, and H.Y. Paik, “Characteristic Structures of 
Typhoon Jelawat Observed by OSMI, TRMM/PR and QuikSCAT,” 
Proceedings of Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, vol. 2, 
Page(s): 661-663, 2001. 
[10] T.L. Pao, J.H. Yeh, M.Y. Liu, and Y.C. Hsu, "Locating the Typhoon 
Center from the IR Satellite Cloud Images," 2006 IEEE International 
Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics (SMC2006), Page(s):  
484-488, 2006. 
2101
 
 
A. Image Luminance Scaling 
There is a relative range for the tropical cyclone cloud 
temperature, which is represented by gray-level value. 
Satellite cloud images received are transferred into 256 level 
gray-scale digital images. Fig. 1 shows a gray-scale satellite 
image. Various temperature ranges can be utilized to locate 
the cloud that represents the typhoon center.  
Due to satellite images can easily to be deformed and 
polluted by ambient interferences or image compression. The 
satellite images from different years, sessions or database will 
have different luminance. Therefore, the luminance scaling of 
images is necessary. Given Fo be the original gray scale value 
of a satellite image, the luminance scaling of oF can be 
calculated as 
 
                           ( )
255 ,
max
i
o
o
F F
F
= ⋅                                (1) 
 
where 
io
F is the pixel value of the original gray scale satellite 
image. 
 
 
Fig. 1.  A gray-scale satellite cloud image. 
 
B. Image Slicing 
The slicing of satellite cloud images can be implemented 
through choosing the threshold range of the image grayness 
from Kl to Ku. In this paper, Kl = 176 and Ku = 255 are used 
since the significant features of a typhoon in the gray-scale 
images are found within this range from experiments. Each 
satellite cloud images will be partitioned uniformly to ‘slices’ 
with 10 gray-scale value apart. Then we obtained slices Si, 
i = 1, 2, …, 8, as shown in Fig. 2. 
III. IMAGE FEATURE EXTRACTION 
In order to separate the interested information from lots of 
messes, one important step is to segment the significant cloud 
movement components from satellite cloud images. The 
erosion operation of mathematical morphology is used to 
segment main cloud movement region from cloud images. 
Based on the slicing method mentioned in section II, the 
threshold 176 is chosen in the typhoon feature extracting 
procedure. 
 
   
S1 S2 S3 
   
S4 S5 S6 
  
 
S7 S8  
Fig. 2.  Slices of satellite cloud image. 
 
A. Binary and Erosion 
In this step, the threshold range of the image gray-level 
from Kl to Ku is used. The original image is converted into 
binary image as shown in Fig. 3(a). To locate the center of a 
typhoon, the original image needs to be preprocessed, 
including filtering and segmentation. Filtering is done using 
morphology erosion operation. Given A is a point set on 
plane, A   is the complement of A. Choosing a point set B 
with simple set shape, which includes the origin O, and set the 
origin as symmetric center. B is named a Minkowski element. 
If structural elements shift, e.g. shift original point to z, then, 
it is denoted as Bz. 
Minkowski subtraction can also be named as erode or 
shrink, and is defined as [8]: 
 
                                 { }: zA B z B AΘ = ∈ ,                           (2) 
 
where Θ denotes the erosion operation. 
Fig. 3(b) shows the result after the erosion processing. 
Experiment results show that after the erosion operation, 
useless being disturbed, the cloud and latitude/longitude lines 
will be successfully filtered and the remaining is the feature 
cloud with smooth border. 
 
47985
 
 
   
S1 S2 S3 
   
S4 S5 S6 
  
 
S7 S8  
Fig. 5.  Sliced satellite image after erosion operation 
 
IV. TYPHOON LOCATING METHOD 
After applying the image processing and mathematic 
morphology techniques mentioned in previous sections, the 
features extracted from slices of typhoon cloud images can be 
used to locate typhoons. The main typhoon locating 
procedure are as follows: 
 
1) Satellite image luminance scaling. 
2) Satellite image binarization. 
3) Satellite image erosion. 
4) Image region growing 
5) Image region filling. 
6) Features extraction from slices of typhoon cloud 
images. 
7) Typhoon locating. 
 
The proposed method simplifies the feature representation 
of a typhoon. Comparing with some complex computation 
locating method, one of our important purposes is to locate a 
typhoon without high definition satellite images and high 
computational complexity. Moreover, the proposed method is 
can locate typhoons fast and precisely. 
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
The experimental results applying the above discussed 
algorithm for locating various types of typhoons are shown in 
Fig. 6. Fig. 6(a) and 6(b) are two typhoons with significant 
eyes in the center. It is easy to locate typhoons in the mature 
period even though there are some other blocks of clouds 
appearing in the same satellite images. Additionally, a large 
unrelated cloud is sometimes appeared close to peripheral 
regions of the typhoon cloud formations, as shown in Fig. 6(c) 
and 6(d), which can be recognized by the features extracting 
from slices of satellite cloud images, and we can still locate 
the typhoon correctly. In the decaying period of the typhoon 
life cycle, it is hard to locate a typhoon from the satellite 
cloud images owing to the unobvious wind movement vector 
and sprawl visible cloud direction. However, the features 
extracting from slices of the typhoon satellite images can 
surmount this obstacle that only mathematical morphology 
operations are hard to achieve. Fig. 6(e) and 6(f) show the 
locating results of two delaying typhoons. 
 
  
(a). HAITANG-200507160032 (b). LONGWANG-200510020033 
  
(c). TALIM-200508311832  (d). MATSA-200508030633 
 
 
 (e). KHANUN-200509111232 (f). RITA-200509222345 
Fig. 6. The locating of different types of typhoon. 
 
 
In conclusion, the experimental results are satisfactory in 
the locating of typhoons. The features we extracted are 
helpful in identifying the center and location of a typhoon and 
can be used to improve the analysis and prediction of 
typhoons. 
Our proposed typhoon locating method can be used to track 
the path of a typhoon with a serious of nephograms 
automatically. Fig. 7 shows the path tracking of a typhoon 
until the decaying stage of the typhoon. 
 
4817
Extracting Features of Typhoon from the IR Satellite Cloud Images 
 
Tsang-Long Pao, Jun-Heng Yeh, Min-Yen Liu, Yung-Chang Hsu 
 
Department of Computer Science and Engineering 
Tatung University, Taipei 
tlpao@ttu.edu.tw; {d9306002, g9306014, g9306034}@ms2.ttu.edu.tw 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
In weather forecast, typhoon center locating and 
prediction are often done by well-trained meteorologists. 
However, due to the complex and dynamic nature of the 
atmosphere and typhoon, it is very hard to predict the 
direction and speed accurately. Satellite digital cloud 
images make it possible to carry out such task by aid of 
modern digital computers. In this paper, we propose a 
novel method to extract typhoon features based on image 
processing techniques and mathematical morphology. We 
apply features extracted from the infrared (IR) satellite 
cloud images to identify and locate typhoons 
automatically. If the general public or meteorologist 
would like to show the movement of typhoon on a 
browser through the network on demand in real time, it is 
necessary to reduce the computational complexity of 
feature extraction. Our proposed method simplifies the 
feature representation of typhoon and improve the 
efficiency of typhoon reorganization and locating. 
Moreover, the proposed method can be used to improve 
analysis and prediction of typhoon. We use our proposed 
method to identify and locate typhoons occurred in recent 
years. In our experiments, the satisfied recognition 
accuracy and locating results are achieved. 
 
Keywords: Typhoon locating, Typhoon tracking, 
Features of typhoon cloud, Satellite cloud images 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
In Taiwan, typhoon is one of the most serious natural 
disasters. Typhoon often involves multiple hazards at the 
same time or in quick succession. In addition to high 
winds and heavy rain, a typhoon can result in flooding 
and mudslides. Thunder and lightning storms can be 
accompanied by heavy hail and flash floods in temperate 
latitudes. The precise and early weather forecast will be 
an important precautionary measure to prevent serious 
damage and save human life. One important procedure of 
the weather forecast system is to locate and track the 
tropical cyclone in the IR satellite cloud images. That 
would be helpful to improve analysis and prediction of 
typhoon direction. 
Typhoons usually appear in latitude between -5 and 
+5 degree [1]. In general, northwest Pacific tropical 
cyclones move towards northwest. The typhoon clouds in 
the northern hemisphere always rotate anti-clockwise 
around a center spirally. This is because of its original 
force comes from the effect of Corioli's force brought by 
the rotation of Earth [2]. Approximately, there are three 
accredited phases of a life cycle of a typhoon: gestate 
from the offing, grown up to mature and weaken to death. 
Typhoon at the mature period has three significant 
characters: eyed section, obdurate cloud wall and integrate 
spiral cloud band. They are important symptoms for 
meteorologists to recognize and locate typhoon. As a 
cloud motion wind vector field deduced from time series 
satellite cloud images, its outer and inner vectors present a 
spiral correlation. That is to say, the elliptic outer shape 
and the cloud motion wind vectors around a circle can 
always be found in a typhoon satellite cloud image. 
One of the most widely accepted techniques for the 
identification and classification of tropical cyclones from 
satellite cloud images is the Dvorak technique [3], which 
assigns a wind intensity value, “T-numbers”, based on the 
vortices of the dense cloud shield adjacent to the center of 
the storm. Owing to the high variation of cloud patterns 
and lack of efficient scene analysis techniques for the 
isolation and extraction of cloud systems from satellite 
images, the tropical cyclone pattern matching jobs in 
Dvorak analysis are always done by subjective human 
justification. The core problem of the Dvorak technique is 
how to obtain the rotation features of the clouds from the 
matching circle template. Poon et al. applied low-level 
image processing approach and fuzzy mathematical 
morphology to locate tropical cyclones in satellite images 
[4]. Raymond et al. used an elastic graph dynamic link 
model to provide an automated pattern matching solution 
in the Dvorak analysis [5]. 
Some scholars attempted to find out significant 
typhoon features from satellite cloud images [6-9]. 
 
Figure 4: Satellite image 
after erosion 
Figure 5: Satellite image 
after region growing 
 
 
  
(a) Original region B (b) Largest circle obtained 
from pixel A in region B 
 
Figure 6: The procedure of typhoon candidate 
segmentation 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Typhoon cloud candidate segmentation result in 
original satellite image 
 
 
3.1. TYPHOON SKELETON EXTRACTION 
 
After the image erosion, the satellite image has some 
scattered clouds as shown in Figure 4. In order to 
construct the connected region and eliminated the 
scattered portions, the region growing technique is 
adapted. Region growing is the procedure that combines 
pixel groups or sub-regions into larger regions based on 
the predefined criteria. This approach starts with a set of 
seed points and grows from them by appending to each 
seed point with neighboring pixels that have similar 
properties to the seed, such as specific ranges of gray-
scale or color. In this paper, we use 8-connectivity region 
growing to find each connected region. After the region 
growing, most typhoon regions are larger than 30×30 
pixels. Thus the small fractal regions can be eliminated. 
We calculated density of connected region in the 
surrounding circular area. Fractal regions can be 
eliminated when its density lower than the predefined 
density threshold, which is set to 0.4 in our experiments. 
Figure 5 shows the result of satellite image after region 
growing and density threshold. 
The typhoon region typically contains a lot of climate 
information, such as typhoon peripheral circulation 
characteristics. In this paper, we proposed a typhoon 
candidate segmentation method to segment the possible 
typhoon cloud region in a satellite image. The typhoon 
cloud is generally rotating circularly with respect to the 
typhoon center. When the typhoon cloud and other types 
of cloud are blurred, the typhoon cloud can be recognized 
as the largest circular region. Therefore we can use these 
typhoon structure characteristics to segment the typhoon 
cloud. After the region growing, we use each pixel in the 
region as the centre of a circle and gradually increase the 
radius until the edge of the circle touch the edge of that 
region. Thus we will have circle from each pixel of the 
region. As shown in Figure 6(a), the pixel A is located 
inside region B. Let pixel A as the center of the circle 
whose radius grows until the edge of cycle touch the edge 
of region B. The largest circle obtained by using pixel A 
as the center is shown in Figure 6(b). The largest circle in 
the region obtained from this process is adopted to replace 
original region and be considered as typhoon candidate. 
Figure 7 shows the typhoon candidates from the original 
satellite image after typhoon candidate segmentation 
processing. 
 
3.2. THE FEATURE EXTRACTION FROM SLICES 
OF SATELLITE CLOUD IMAGES 
 
After slicing processing, we can obtain slices Si, i = 1, 
2, …, 8. The typhoon cloud structure is distributed more 
tightly and concentrated than other types of cloud in each 
slice. In the x-y plane of each typhoon cloud candidate 
center point, the x- and y-axes divide the plane into four 
quadrants. The regression line or least square line in each 
quadrants of candidate typhoon cloud region was 
calculated as follows: 
0 1ˆ  ,y b b x= +  (2)
( )( )
( )1 2  ,
i i
i
x x y y
b
x x
− −
=
−
∑
∑
 (3)
0 1  .b y b x= −  (4)
A 
B B 
A 
simplifies the feature representation of typhoon. 
Comparing with some complicate locating method, one 
benefit of our proposed locating method is to locate 
typhoon without high definition satellite images and 
heavy computational complexity. Moreover, the proposed 
method can locate different types of typhoons fast and 
precisely. 
 
  
 (a) typhoon  
NOCK-TEN 
(200410230023) 
 (b) typhoon 
HAITANG 
(200507161259) 
 (c) typhoon 
SINLAKU 
(200209071232) 
  
 (d) typhoon 
NOCK-TEN 
(200410250023) 
 (e) typhoon 
HAITANG 
(200507191232) 
 (f) typhoon 
LONGWANG 
(200510021833) 
  
 (g) typhoon 
MINDULLE 
(200406291823) 
 (h) typhoon  AERE 
(200408240023) 
 (i) typhoon TALIM 
(200509010632) 
Figure 10: Locating typhoon in different types of IR 
satellite cloud images 
 
 
5. CONCLUSION 
 
This paper is focused on the feature extraction and 
locating of typhoons in the IR satellite cloud images. 
Comparing typhoon cloud with other types of cloud in 
satellite image slices, the typhoon slices reflect the innate 
characteristics that the stratiform is distributed around the 
typhoon center. Our proposed method has the benefit to 
fast identification of the typhoon region without 
complicated computing. In the typhoon recognition stage, 
we extract typhoon stratiform features from slices of 
satellite images. Experimental results show that our 
proposed system achieves the average accuracy of 75 % in 
all collected typhoon images. According to the 
experimental results, we can also locate typhoon precisely 
even typhoon has no eye and at the beginning gesture or 
final the decaying stage. More accurate and faster typhoon 
locating method will be helpful to track the path of 
typhoon in serious of continuous typhoon satellite images. 
Because of the significant relationship between typhoon 
recognition and cloud movement information, a typhoon 
can be classified by its overall motion pattern and 
peripheral cloud patterns. Therefore, the image processing 
techniques and morphology operation are important 
methods to the retrieval of useful features from satellite 
cloud images. 
In the process of image slicing, we found some other 
significant features from slices of typhoon satellite images, 
especially the rotation features of wind movement. Each 
slice of a typhoon satellite cloud image shows quite 
clearly the eye-wall convection, stratiform regions, and 
convective bands. Vertical cross section of rainfall in the 
genesis stage of typhoon exhibits circular ring of intense 
convection surrounding the typhoon center. The mature 
stage of typhoon consists of a strong rotational circulation 
with clouds which are well organized around the center of 
the lowest pressure. Comparing with each slice of 
typhoon cloud images, the typhoon stratiform has regular 
spiraling rotation features in the area of eyewall and outer 
rainbands. Therefore, some new typhoon feature analysis 
method based on MPEG-7 will be studied in our research. 
Additionally, the international ARGO program [11] has 
deployed nearly 1400 profiling floats since 2000 which 
records temperature and salinity between the surface and 
at a depth of 1000~2000 meters every 10 days. In the 
future, we will combine the ARGO float data and new 
typhoon features to increase accuracy of typhoon 
recognition and locating. 
 
 
6. ACKNOWLEDGE 
 
The authors are thankful to the National Science Council 
of Taiwan, R.O.C., for financial supports of this work 
(grant no. 94-2745-E-036-003-URD). 
 
 
7. REFERENCES 
 
[1] Q.P. Zhang, L.L. Lai, W.C. Sun, “Intelligent Location 
of Tropical Cyclone Center,” Proceedings of the 
Fourth International Conference on Machine Learning 
and Cybernetics, Vol. 1 , Page(s): 423-428, 2005. 
[2] P. Wang , P.L. Yamg, W. L. Li, H.Q. Lu, “Extracting 
the Rotation Feature of the Developing Typhoon,” 
Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on 
Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Vol. 8, 
Page(s): 5229-5234, 2005. 
[3] V. F. Dvorak, “A technique for the analysis and 
forecasting of tropical cyclone intensities from satellite 
pictures,” U.S. Dept. Commerce, Washington, D.C., 
NOAA Tech. Memo. NESS 45, 1973. 
[4] J.C.H. Poon, C.P. Chau, M. Ghadiali, “Using fuzzy 
mathematical morphology for locating tropical 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2745-E-036-003-URD 
計畫名稱 
總計劃：利用衛星資料分析與探勘海水鹽度變化以建構災害預警系統 
子計劃二：利用衛星資料分析與探勘海水鹽度變化以建構災害預警系統 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
包蒼龍 
大同大學資工系副教授 
會議時間地點 Ocean University of China, Qingdao, China 
會議名稱 International Conference on Intelligent Computing (ICIC) 2007 
發表論文題目 A Comparative Study of Different Weighting Schemes on KNN-based Emotion Recognition in Mandarin Speech 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議是由位於青島的海洋大學主辦，ICIC 研討會是由中國大陸 Institute of Intelligent 
Machines, Chinese Academy of Sciences所主辦每年一次的研討會，議題內容共分為 36個子領
域，主要是探討智慧型計算相關議題，比較好的論文有收錄到 Lecture Notes in Computer 
Science，這次是第三次辦理。會議在青島海洋大學校園內之旅館 Academic Exchange Center
舉辦，時間是 2007年 8月 21~24日，第一天為報到日，第二天開幕之後大會安排了五場 Plenary 
speech及一場 Panel Discussion，另外在最後一天下午安排一場 Tutorial Speech，論文報告皆安
排在後兩天，五個場地同步舉行，上午及下午各兩個 Session，發表論文數約 260篇，我所發
表的論文是安排在最後一天的早上的第二個 Session。 
 
二、與會心得 
第一次參加在大陸舉辦的研討會，感覺與其他地方舉辦之會議有頗大的不同，第一天報到時
幾乎就將所有帶去的人民幣用光了，因為主辦會議的旅館不收信用卡，且必須報到時就將所
有住宿費用結清，差點沒錢吃晚餐，還好碰到一位台灣海洋大學的教授，才不會不知如何度
過這幾天的會議。另外會議進行中沒有來出席報告的比例相當高，似乎也與一般國際會議大
家都踴躍出席的狀況不同，Oral Session的第一天第一場甚至於發生主持人缺席的狀況，主辦
單位看我像老經驗的樣子，臨時請我代為主持其中一個 Session，實在有點離譜。 
青島是一個著名的海港，由於是 2008奧運的帆船比賽場地，因此有很多的建設正在進
行，會議期間又適逢啤酒節，因此市況還頗為熱鬧，因為旅館就在校園內，不會感到吵雜。
會議期間也利用早上會議前搭公車到海邊走走，景觀相當不錯。 
 
