ᄔा
ҁीฝࢂଞჹ΋ჴᡍҔϐ፺Ԅ౽୏ࠠᐒᏔΓǴӧคڬᎁᏤЇϐ௃ݩΠǴගраགෳၗ਑ࣁ୷ᘵǴճҔ
Γπඵች຾Չၡ৩ೕჄǴԾ୏ଶًϷᗉም௓ڋǴаࣁஒٰԾ୏ᎯᎭ௓ڋᏔ൚ۓ౛ፕϷฯᡏ୘ࠔϯϐ୷
ᘵǶҁԃࡋࣴزճҔኳጋس಍ٰኳᔕΓᜪޑ௢ፕኳԄǴ࿶җ٬Ҕޣޑ࿶ᡍکགෳᏔޑ᏾ӝǴࡌҥ΋ঁ
ঋڀ௓ڋϷղᘐޑБݤǴόሡाߚதፄᚇޑኧᏢБำԄǴ൩ёа೛ीр΋ঁਏ݀όᒱޑ௓ڋᏔǶճҔ
࠻ϣۓՏس಍ٰගٮԾوًޑՏ࿼аϷᓐӛ֨فǴ่ӝኳጋᡄᒠࡌҥଶًޑՉࣁኳԄᆶ٬Ҕຬॣݢག
ෳᏔբࣁଶًӼӄޑԵໆǴӆམଛ୷Ӣᄽᆉݤ܌ཛྷ൨ϐୖԵၡ৩ǴၲډԾوًଓၞਏૈന٫ϯǶќѦ
ҭ٬ҔឪቹᐒᆶቹႽೀ౛מೌٰᘏڗၡय़੝ۓᚑՅޑጕచǴ٠ЪीᆉځߏࡋᙖаղᘐଶًӦᗺǴӆ೸
ၸຬॣݢགෳᏔֹԋၡᜐଶً୏բǶ᏾ӝ CCD᜔ᓐǵ࠻ϣۓՏس಍کճҔ Type-1Ϸ Type-2ኳጋ౛ፕ
ჴ౜Ծوً୏ᄊᗉምǶԾوًճҔ࠻ϣۓՏس಍܌໺ଌӣٰޑ০኱ኧᏵаϷفࡋѐঅ҅ԾךՉ຾ၡ
ጕǶ୏ᄊᗉምኳጋس಍ᘜឦڄኧх֖ቹႽ܌ीᆉрԾوًᆶ౽୏ምᛖނϐ໔ޑຯᚆǵ୏ᄊύЈ০኱ǵ
ምᛖނϐ౽୏فࡋаϷ౽୏ໆǶ
ᜢᗖӷǽኳጋᡄᒠǴ፺Ԅ౽୏ࠠᐒᏔΓǴၡ৩ೕჄǴԾ୏ଶًǴ୏ᄊᗉም௓ڋ
ABSTRACT
This research utilizes fuzzy logic system to a wheeled mobile robot (WMR) for path following, automatic 
parking, and dynamic obstacle avoidance. The proposed controller uses type-1 and type-2 fuzzy systems. A 
CCD camera and a localization system are integrated in the control scheme. The wheeled mobile robot can 
adjust moving path by the position and heading angle, which are given from the localization system. Path 
following, automatic parking, and dynamic obstacle avoidance strategies are implemented in fuzzy rules. 
Distance between the WMR and an obstacle, center coordinate, heading angle, and displacement of the 
obstacle can all be obtained by image process and distance computation algorithm. Experiments show that the 
WMR can perform path following, automatic parking, and dynamic obstacle avoidance successfully. 
Keywords: fuzzy logic system, wheeled mobile robot, path following, automatic parking, and dynamic 
obstacle avoidance.
                                
 
LabView8.5 to encode the interface. The sensed data is 
transmitted by WiFi (802.11b) wireless network. In this 
paper, dynamic obstacle avoidance fuzzy system also 
incorporates adaptive control, which uses the WMR speed 
and relative position of the dynamic obstacles, to perform 
optimal obstacle avoidance automatically by adjusting better 
safety distance and angle of obstacle avoidance. 
Experimental results show that real-time dynamic obstacle 
avoidance is feasible. 
 
2. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION 
 
The experimental validation of the control scheme has been 
performed on the X-80 WMR. The X-80 is a two-wheel 
differentially driven car-like robot. There are two 12V-DC 
motors, which provide 300 oz.inch (21.6 kg.cm) torques. 
Each motor controls one wheel and the maximum speed is 1 
m/s. The supply voltage controls rotation speeds of the 
motors. The motor rotation speed is proportional to the input 
voltage. Each wheel has a quadrature encoder, which detects 
the wheel rotation. The quadrature encoder serves as the 
robot feedback sensor, movement of the WMR on the ground 
can be calculated by the sensed data. Since there is no 
calibrator for the encoder, error of the movement is 
accumulated [22]. To overcome this drawback, a localization 
system called StarGazer is installed on the WMR, which can 
provide accurate coordinate to the control system. Changing 
direction of the WMR depends on the difference speeds of 
the two front wheels. In order to better meet the intelligent 
dynamic obstacle avoidance control, we replace infrared and 
ultrasound sensors by a CCD camera, which is used to search 
surrounding environment. The integrated WMR is shown in 
Fig. 1. 
 
 
Fig. 1. Front view of the WMR with camera and StarGazer 
 
Because the WMR is a nonlinear system, we use simplified 
equations to replace the movement of the WMR of the 
body’s dynamic equations. First, we assume the condition of 
the WMR is located on the Cartesian coordinate system 
(global coordinate system) as shown in Fig. 2, which has no 
lateral or sliding movement. By calculating the center speed 
of the body of each movement and angular speed, we can 
solve every movement of the WMR. The WMR can then be 
driven to the expected position and direction when the 
movement of the body is computed at each iteration. The 
WMR on the two dimensional Cartesian coordinate system is 
represented by a vector with nonlinear terms, which carries 
heading direction and lateral direction information. The 
WMR is a nonholonomic system [25]. On lateral direction, 
the wheels are still. Since the speeds of the left and right 
wheels are the inputs of the system, linear transformation is 
used to transform left wheel speed and right wheel speed to 
center speed and angular speed of the WMR, respectively, as 
shown in (1). 
 
!
"
#
$
%
 
 
 
!
"
#
#
#
$
%
&
' 
!
"
#
$
%
r
l
w
w
d
r
d
rw
v 2
r
2
r
   (1) 
 
    Fig. 2. WMR coordinate diagram 
 
The parameter v is the center speed, w is the angular speed of 
the WMR, wl is the speed of the left wheel, wr is the speed of 
the right wheel, d is the distance between the left wheel and 
right wheel, r is the radius of the wheel. The velocity of the 
WMR on global coordinate is 
wvy
x
(
(
(
)
*
+
+
+
,
-
.
(
(
(
)
*
+
+
+
,
-
'
(
(
(
)
*
+
+
+
,
-
1
0
0
0
sin
cos
/
/
/ 
 
 
   (2) 
where   is the heading angle, x is the X-axis coordinate of the 
center of the body, y is the Y-axis coordinate of the center of 
the body. The displacement can be obtained by 
( 1) ( ) cos 0
( 1) ( ) sin 0
( ) 0 1( 1)
k k
k k
x i x i
y i y i t
w
ii
/
0
/
//
.% " % " % "
% "#  #  #  . ' . 1#  #  #  #  $ !#  #  #  .$ ! $ ! $ !
 (3) 
where !t is the sampled time, i is the current time index, i+1 
is the next time index. 
 
The network camera PZ6114/6124 is used in this study [26]. 
A localization system called StarGazer is installed on top of 
the WMR at the center position. The StarGazer transmits and 
receives infrared signal that can be used to obtain the 
coordinate location and heading angle of the WMR. Passive 
landmarks are installed on the ceiling. Applicable range of 
each landmark is 3 meters. The advantage of the StarGazer is 
 Left wheel 
Heading direction
Right wheel
The caster 
Lateral direction 
  Robot body 
                                
 
B.  Type-1 fuzzy controller 
In this research, dynamic obstacle avoidance and path 
following are implemented in fuzzy control system. The 
fuzzy control system for path following uses two inputs, they 
are angle of WMR and x-axis coordinate. The WMR follows 
the path at coordinates of X=0. If the offset of the path occur, 
the WMR will adjust its direction and return to the preset 
path immediately. The fuzzy control system for obstacle 
avoidance uses four inputs, they are distance between the 
WMR and the dynamic obstacle, center of y-axis coordinate, 
heading angle of the obstacle, and displacement of the 
obstacle, as dad, dac, dar and dam, respectively. Fig. 6 
shows direction of movement schematic diagram.  
 
 
Fig. 6. Direction of movement 
The output of the system is the turning angle of the WMR. 
The output has eight levels of turning degree. They are TLS, 
TLL, TLM, TLS, TRS, TRM, TRL and TRS, which represent 
turning left very large, turning left large, turning left median, 
turning left small, turning right small, turning right median, 
turning right large, and turning right very large, respectively. 
For a better control, another fuzzy system to control the value 
of the distance between the WMR and the dynamic obstacle 
is added. The additional fuzzy system is used to adjust a set 
of better values in the avoidance distance and angle 
adjustment membership functions that can make the 
controller to perform better experimental results. Some 
examples of the rules are shown below. 
 
Rule 1: if dad is FAR and dac is LEFT and dar is A-area and 
drm is small, then ta is TLM. 
Rule 2: if dad is FAR and dac is RIGHT and dar is E-area 
and drm is small, then ta is TRM. 
Rule 3: if dad is FAR and dac is RIGHT and dar is F-area 
and drm is median, then ta is TRS. 
…. 
Rule 32: if dad is NEAR and dac is LEFT and dar is D-area 
and drm is small, then ta is TRS. 
C.  Type-2 fuzzy controller 
Fig. 7 shows the structure of type-2 fuzzy controller. The 
differences between type-1 and type-2 fuzzy system are the 
membership functions and output procedures. The type-2 
fuzzy set uses type-2 fuzzy membership functions and output 
process, where the output process has two parts; the type-
reduction and defuzzification. The type-2 fuzzy logic system 
is a combination of fuzzy rule base to provide the second set 
of inference output.  The inference is similar to the type-1 
fuzzy system, it is handled by the output of simplified 
procedures for operation and is transformed to the type-1 
fuzzy sets, then the crisp output can be obtained by 
defuzzification. 
 
Fig. 7. The structure of type-2 fuzzy controller 
 
Suppose the interval type-2 fuzzy system has M rules. Each 
rule can be described as follow˖ 
 Ri: IF xi is A
i and x2 is B
i THEN y is Gi 
where i=1, 2, …, M, Ai and Bi are the antecedent fuzzy sets of 
the second type, while Gi is the consequent fuzzy set of the 
second type. The antecedent output of interval type-2 fuzzy 
logic system is shown in Fig. 8. Assuming the case of rule l, 
1x  and 2x  are the inputs to trigger each rule of interval type-
2 fuzzy sets Al and Bl of antecedent. Take the product of 
upper membership functions (UMF) 
1( )lA x2  and 2( )lB x2 , 
the antecedent membership function output of lf  can be 
found.
 
Take the product of down membership functions 
(DMF) 
1( )lA x2  and 2( )lB x2 , the antecedent membership 
function output of lf  can be obtained. Consequent output 
( )lB y2 !  of  rules 
lR  is defined as 
[ * ( ), * ( )]
( ) 1/ ,l l l l
l lG G
l
B b f y f y
y b y Y
2 2
2
3
' 3 
  
 
         (5) 
where ( )lG y!   and ( )lG y!   represent upper membership 
function and down membership function of footprint of 
uncertainty (FOU) ( )lG y!  , respectively. Consider the center-
of-sets type of operation [21] as an example of calculating 
ry . 
At first i
rw  are in ascending order, i.e. 
1 2 N
r r rw w w" " "! . 
Step 1. Set the initial ( ) / 2, 1,2,...,i i irf f f i M# $ # , calculate 
ry , and make 
'
r ry y# , where 1
1
M i i
r ri
r M i
ri
f y
y
f
#
#
#
%
%
 .                            
 
Crisp 
input
Fuzzi-
fication
Inference 
engine 
Rule 
base 
Defuzzi- 
fication 
Crisp 
output 
Type-2 FLS 
Type- 
reducer 
Type reducer 
Set (Type-1)
Out Processing 
                                
 
 
Fig. 11. Control sequence for dynamic obstacle avoidance. 
 
In the experiment the WMR attempts to avoid a single 
dynamic obstacle with blue or red color. Different moving 
speeds of the dynamic obstacle are also considered. Type-1 
fuzzy and the simplified interval type-2 fuzzy controllers are 
applied to dynamic obstacle avoidance. Fig. 12 shows the 
WMR encounters a dynamic obstacle moving from the right 
side of the WMR to the left side of the WMR. Analyses of 
speeds, heading angle, and coordinates of the WMR are 
given in Fig. 13. After avoiding obstacle, the WMR can 
move back to the preset path. Fig. 14 and 15 show the WMR 
encounters a dynamic obstacle moving from the left side of 
the WMR to the right side of the WMR. Head-on collision 
avoidance is shown in Fig. 16 and Fig. 17. 
  
(A)                                          (B) 
  
(C)                                          (D) 
  
(E)                                          (F) 
Fig. 12. The WMR dodges a left-moving dynamic obstacle 
 
 
                                
 
(A)                                         (B) 
  
(C)                                         (D) 
  
(E)                                         (F) 
Fig. 16. The WMR dodges a head-on dynamic obstacle 
 
 
Fig. 17. WMR data for a head-on dynamic obstacle 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
 
This paper presents a fuzzy control scheme that integrates 
visual sensor and localization system to dynamic obstacle 
avoidance control. In path following, the StarGazer can 
provide accurate coordinates and angle of the WMR. From 
experimental results the simplified interval type-2 fuzzy 
controller has better performance than the type-1 fuzzy 
controller. In most cases the wheel speeds, while avoiding 
obstacle, are small by using the type-2 fuzzy controller. 
Changes of the heading angle are also less by the use of type-
2 fuzzy controller. The Labview 8.5 interface is used and 
fuzzy controller is programmed in the computer in field tests. 
We use C code to realize the real-time control and the 
sampling time is 0.3 seconds. With image processing method 
the proposed fuzzy controller can control the WMR in 
dynamic obstacle avoidance. 
 
ACKNOWLEGEMENT 
 
This work is supported by the National Science Council, 
Taiwan, ROC under Grant NSC98-2221- E-019- 012. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Y. Ando and S. Yuta, “Following a wall by an 
Autonomous Mobile Robot with a Sonar-Ring,” Proc. 
୯ࣽ཮ံշ஑ᚒࣴزीฝԋ݀ൔ֋Ծຑ߄!
ፎ൩ࣴزϣ৒ᆶচीฝ࣬಄ำࡋǵၲԋႣයҞ኱௃ݩǵࣴزԋ݀ϐᏢೌ܈ᔈҔሽ
ॶȐᙁा௶ॊԋ݀܌ж߄ϐཀကǵሽॶǵቹៜ܈຾΋؁ว৖ϐёૈ܄ȑǵࢂց፾
ӝӧᏢೌයтว߄܈ҙፎ஑ճǵЬाว౜܈ځдԖᜢሽॶ฻Ǵբ΋ᆕӝຑ՗Ƕ
1. ፎ൩ࣴزϣ৒ᆶচीฝ࣬಄ำࡋǵၲԋႣයҞ኱௃ݩբ΋ᆕӝຑ՗
Ɏ!!ၲԋҞ኱
ɍʳ ҂ၲԋҞ኱ȐፎᇥܴǴа 100ӷࣁज़ȑ
ɍʳჴᡍѨ௳!
ɍʳӢࡺჴᡍύᘐ
ɍʳځдচӢ
ᇥܴǺ
2. ࣴزԋ݀ӧᏢೌයтว߄܈ҙፎ஑ճ฻௃׎Ǻ
ፕЎǺɍςว߄!ɍ҂ว߄ϐЎዺ!Ɏኗቪύ!ɍค!
஑ճǺɍςᕇள!ɍҙፎύ!Ɏค!
מᙯǺɍςמᙯ!ɍࢳፋύɎค!
ځдǺȐа 100ӷࣁज़ȑ!
ςว߄ 4ጇࣴ૸཮ፕЎ,౜҅᏾౛ԋයтፕЎύ.
3. ፎ٩Ꮲೌԋ൩ǵמೌബཥǵޗ཮ቹៜ฻Бय़Ǵຑ՗ࣴزԋ݀ϐᏢೌ܈ᔈҔሽ
ॶȐᙁा௶ॊԋ݀܌ж߄ϐཀကǵሽॶǵቹៜ܈຾΋؁ว৖ϐёૈ܄ȑȐа
500ӷࣁज़ȑ
ҁीฝςֹԋ౛ፕϩ݋ǵ೬ᡏኳᔕϷฯᡏኳᔕǶҞ߻Ծوًૈ຾Չଓၞ௓ڋǵ
Ծ୏ॹًΕ৤ǵၡᜐଶًϷ୏ᄊᗉምǴ֡Ԗόᒱޑ่݀Ƕӧ౛ፕϩ݋Ϸ೬ฯ
ᡏኳᔕ೽ϩǴςว߄ 3ጇܭ 2010س಍ࣽᏢᆶπำࣴ૸཮ǵ1ጇܭ 2010 IEEE 
International Conference on Industrial Electronics and ApplicationǶ҂ٰନΑஒഌ
ុ᏾౛ว߄යтፕЎѦǴஒᔈҔ׳ᙁܰޑᄽᆉݤа࿯࣪ၮᆉਔ໔Ǵ٠่ӝ GPS
຾΋؁ᔈҔܭЊѦً፶ջਔᗉምᆶԾ୏௓ڋǴаჴ౜ඵችࠠၮᒡس಍ϐԾ୏
ᏤЇ௓ڋǶ
!

!
୯ࣽ཮ံշ஑ᚒࣴزीฝ໨Πрৢ୯ሞᏢೌ཮᝼Јளൔ֋!
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ВයǺ!:: ԃ!21 Д!25!В!
΋ǵୖу཮᝼࿶ၸ!
IEEE WCCIඵችࠠीᆉШࣚε཮(World Congress on Computational Intelligence)Ǵࣁ؂ٿԃᖐᒤ΋
ԛϐ୯ሞ܄཮᝼ǴϞԃ཮᝼ܭ 7Д 18ВԿ 7Д 23ВӧՋ੤УЃᖻໜયᖐՉǶWCCIШࣚε཮่߯ӝ
2010 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy SystemsǵIEEE Congress on Evolutionary ComputationϷ
International Joint Conference on Neural Networks ϐεࠠ୯ሞ཮᝼Ƕҁԛ཮᝼ऊว߄ 2400ጇፕЎǴε཮
᝼ำϩԋ 514ঁಔձǴځύٰԾѠ᡼ޑऊԖ 60ጇǴ܌Ԗ཮᝼ፕЎ֡೏ԏᒵԿ EI฻ભޑࣴ૸཮ፕЎ໣Ƕ
཮᝼ϩࣁε཮ൔ֋ǵε཮λಔ૸ፕǵϩ཮൑αᓐൔ֋ǵੇൔ৖Ң฻Ьा᝼ำǶٰԾШࣚ߈ΒίՏ஑ৎǵ
Ꮲޣሸᆫ΋୸ǴӅӕୖᆶΑ೭΋ߦ຾ඵችीᆉࣽᏢᆶמೌሦୱޑᏢೌ౰཮Ƕ཮᝼੝ձᗎፎ 13ՏޕӜᏢ
ޣᆶ஑ৎ଺Αᆒறޑε཮஑ᚒൔ֋Ƕ཮ύ܌૸ፕޑЬᚒ఼ᇂጄൎ࣬྽ቶݱǴЬाхࡴΓπඵችǵᜪઓ
࿶ᆛၡǵኳጋᡄᒠ౛ፕᆶᔈҔǵ຾໘Ꮲಞ౛ፕᆶᔈҔǵᄽϯीᆉ౛ፕᆶᔈҔǵຎ᝺ᆶቹႽӝԋᆶᔈҔǵ
གෳᏔ᏾ӝᆶᔈҔǵၩڀ௓ڋǵ፾ᔈ௓ڋ౛ፕᆶᔈҔǵന٫ϯ௓ڋǵம଼௓ڋǵس಍೛ीᆶኳᔕǵس
಍ղձǵᆛၡ௓ڋǵᐒႝس಍ǵғϯᐒႝس಍ǵΓᐒϟय़ǵڼԯس಍ᔈҔǵπ཰Ծ୏ϯǵጕ܄س಍௓
ڋǵߚጕ܄س಍௓ڋǵ඲Т೛ीϷӚԄඵችࠠीᆉᆶᔈҔ฻᝼ᚒǶӧϤϺޑ཮᝼ύǴᆶ཮஑ৎᏢޣᙖ
җፕЎൔ֋ǵ཮᝼ࣴ૸ǵαᓐҬࢬ฻׎ԄӧΓπඵችǵᐒᏔᏢಞǵઓ࿶ीᆉǵғނၗૻǵीᆉғނǵ
ीᆉඵችǵဂᡏඵች฻Ꮲࣽሦୱޑനཥว৖کԋ݀຾ՉుΕޑᏢೌҬࢬک૸ፕǶ
ҁΓܭ 7Д 22Вว߄ȨඵችࠠीᆉܭคΓၩڀ௓ڋϐᔈҔȩፕЎǴԜЎകЇଆᆶ཮Γγޑ዗ਗ਼૸
ፕǴፕЎว߄ࡕ٠ᆶ೚ӭᏢޣ஑ৎ࣬ϕҬඤඵችࠠ౛ፕܭόӕس಍ϐᔈҔᆶࣴزЈளǶҁΓୖуޑϩ
ಔൔ֋ख़ᗺࣁඵችࠠीᆉޑᔈҔǴх֖คΓၩڀϐᗉም௓ڋǵຎ᝺௓ڋϐᔈҔǵॉၞଓᙫǵਔᡂӣ௤
௓ڋϐᔈҔǵ୷Ӣᄽᆉݤܭ௨ำϐᔈҔǵᜪઓ࿶ᆛၡܭႣෳ௓ڋϐᔈҔǵᜪઓ࿶ᆛၡှጠӝ௓ڋᏔܭ
ߚጕ܄س಍ϐᔈҔǵᜪઓ࿶ᆛၡᔈҔܭߚጕ܄ރᄊۯᒨம଼௓ڋᏔϐ೛ीǵԾوًϐ௓ڋǵᜪઓ࿶ᆛ
ၡᔈҔܭᐒᏔΓϐଓၞ௓ڋ฻ǶځύԖᜢඵችࠠ౛ፕᆶᔈҔǴࢂҞ߻௓ڋس಍ޑЬाࣴزᖿ༈ǴӢԶ
Їଆᆶ཮Γγ዗ਗ਼ޑ૸ፕǶҁΓҞ߻ҭаᜪઓ࿶ᆛၡ-ኳጋس಍-୷Ӣᄽᆉషӝس಍ࣁ୷ᘵǴ຾Չޔܹᐒ
ଓၞ௓ڋǵ०ᐒԾ୏फ़ပس಍Ϸ౽୏ԄᐒᏔΓ௓ڋϐࣴزǴϤϺٰǴ᠋Α೭٤ٰԾόӕᐒᄬޑᏢޣϷ
πำৣޑᄽᖱǴᕇ੻ؼӭǶ
Βǵᆶ཮Јள!
җܭҁΓ܌ୖуޑ᝼ำӭࣁඵችࠠس಍Бय़ޑፕЎǴᆶ཮ЈளᙁॊӵΠǺ
ीฝጓဦ! OTD!:9ɡ3332ɡFɡ12:ɡ123ɡ!
ीฝӜᆀ! ඵችࠠ౽୏ԄᐒᏔΓ௓ڋ೛ीᆶჴ౜)JJJ*!
р୯Γ঩
ۉӜ! ಷۑଯ!
୍ܺᐒᄬ
Ϸᙍᆀ!
୯ҥѠ᡼ੇࢩεᏢ ೯ૻᆶᏤૐπำᏢس
௲௤!
཮᝼ਔ໔! ::ԃ 8Д 29ВԿ!:: ԃ 8 Д 34 В! ཮᝼Ӧᗺ! Ջ੤УЃᖻໜય!
཮᝼Ӝᆀ! )ύЎ*!3121 ԃ!JFFF!!XDDJ!ඵችࠠीᆉШࣚε཮!)मЎ*!3121!Xpsme!Dpohsftt!po!Dpnqvubujpobm!Joufmmjhfodf!
ว߄ፕЎ
ᚒҞ!
)ύЎ*!ඵችࠠीᆉܭคΓၩڀ௓ڋϐᔈҔ!
)मЎ*!Bqqmjdbujpo!pg!Joufmmjhfou!Dpnqvujoh!up!Bvupopnpvt!
Wfijdmf!Dpouspm!
Manuscript received January 31, 2010. This work is supported by the 
National Science Council, Taiwan, ROC under Grant NSC 97-2221-E- 
019-025. 
Y. S. Chen, W. H. Wang, and J. G. Juang are with the Department of 
Communications, Navigation and Control Engineering, National Taiwan 
Ocean University, Keelung, Taiwan (phone: +886-2-24622192 ext. 7210; 
fax: +886-2-24633492; e-mail: jgjuang@mail.ntou.edu.tw). 
Application of Intelligent Computing to Autonomous Vehicle 
Control 
 
Yen-Sheng Chen, Wei-Hsun Wang, and Jih-Gau Juang, Member, IEEE 
 
Abstract- This paper utilizes a real-valued genetic algorithm 
(RGA) and fuzzy system to an autonomous vehicle control 
problem. Obstacle avoidance and parking control are 
performed by the use of a CCD camera, sonar sensor, and 
localization system on a wheeled mobile robot (WMR). The 
camera provides image of the surrounding. Distance between 
the WMR and object or obstacle can be obtained by image 
process and distance computation algorithm. Fuzzy system 
and genetic algorithm are integrated in the control scheme 
that can effectively drive the WMR without complicated 
mathematical equations. Sonar sensors detect safety distance 
for the WMR. The localization system provides coordinate 
position of the WMR. The WMR can perform obstacle 
avoidance and garage parking successfully. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
n past decades there has been increasing interest in 
applications of autonomous vehicles. Among them mobile 
robots are the most used and have been applied to home 
services, medical care, space exploration, military, 
entertainment, industrial automation, etc. Intelligent mobile 
robots can perform the missions of guiding tourists, cleaning 
room, nursing the elders, patrol, reconnaissance, 
surveillance, and exploring planets, etc. The three major 
problems in control design for car-like robots are trajectory 
tracking, path following, and point stabilization [1]. Control 
algorithms for WMR usually work on the basis of a 
predefined collision-free path. For this reason, practical 
relevance is assumed by the trajectory tracking problem. 
Regarding the tracking problem, if the control of WMR is 
not satisfying the kinematic constraints, a slow manifold 
method can be used by assuming that the parameter 
characterizing the sliding effects is exactly known [2]. This 
paper presents an autonomous wheeled mobile robot that 
can avoid obstacles [3]-[6] in unknown environment and 
perform automatic indoor garage parking [7]-[9]. The WMR 
can figure out optimal path quickly and accurately by using 
sensors with intelligent algorithms to avoid obstacles, track 
desired path, and control garage parking automatically.  
Among the intelligent optimal parameter-search rules, 
genetic algorithm (GA) is the most used method in present. 
The basic principles of GA were first proposed by Holland 
[10]. Thereafter, a series of literatures and reports became 
available. GA is inspired by the mechanism of natural 
selection where stronger individuals are likely the winners 
in a competing environment. Here, GA uses a direct analogy 
of such natural evolution. Through the genetic evolution 
method, an optimal solution can be found and represented 
by the final winner of the genetic game. GA presumes that 
the potential solution of any problem is an individual and 
can be represented by a set of parameters which are 
regarded as the genes of a chromosome. A positive value, 
generally known as a fitness value, is used to reflect the 
degree of “goodness” of the chromosome for the problem 
which would be highly related with its objective value. An 
intact principle of GA mainly has following parts: 
population, fitness function, reproduction, crossover, and 
mutation. Throughout a genetic evolution, the better 
chromosome has a tendency to yield good quality offspring 
which means a better solution to any problem until the best 
can be searched. In addition, it can search many points at the 
same time, so not likely to fall into local optimal solution. 
After a few years of development, GA has been applied to 
all kinds of engineering optimization problems, such as 
function optimization, traditional control, pattern 
recognition, machine learning, artificial intelligence, etc. 
This method is developed through the simulation of a social 
system and has been put in use to robust in solving 
continuous nonlinear optimization problems [11], [12]. 
In recent years, fuzzy logic controller has become a 
popular approach to perform mobile robot control [13]-[17]. 
Fuzzy theory has been generally applied to the design of 
controller for the following reasons: 1) Control rules are 
more flexible, it can simplify the complex system; 2) It can 
emulate human thinking in the controllers. Therefore, the 
fuzzy system can also be called the fuzzy logic control, the 
fuzzy expert system, fuzzy association memory or fuzzy 
model, etc. 3) It does not need detail model of the plant, it 
replaces the mathematical values in describing control 
system by using the lingual ambiguous expression variables. 
The fuzzy logic controller is credited with being an adequate 
methodology for designing robust controllers that are able to 
deliver a satisfactory performance in face of uncertainty and 
imprecision [18]. There are many sources of uncertainty 
facing the fuzzy logic controller for a mobile robot 
navigating in ever-changing and dynamic unstructured 
environments. There are different ways to construct fuzzy 
logic controllers for mobile robots, the most common way is 
to construct the controller by eliciting the fuzzy rules and 
the input/output membership functions based on expert 
knowledge or through the observation of the actions of a 
human operator controlling the mobile robots. Some 
researchers [19]-[21] have also explored the use of learning 
techniques to learn the fuzzy logic controller for mobile 
robot control. Fuzzy logic system is easy to carry out when a 
mathematical model of the process does not exist. Fuzzy 
logic controller can successfully control ill-defined and 
I 
WCCI 2010 IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence 
July, 18-23, 2010 - CCIB, Barcelona, Spain CEC IEEE
978-1-4244-8126-2/10/$26.00 c©2010 IEEE 1154
    Fig. 2. WMR coordinate diagram. 
 
   The network camera PZ6114/6124 is used in this 
study as shown in Fig. 3. It uses the Trimedia PNX1300 
CPU, the RAM is 16MB SDRAM, and the ROM is 4MB 
FLASH ROM. The wireless LAN is 2.4GHz 802.11g/b. It 
supports MPEG4 SP and MJPEG format. The transfer rate 
of frames is up to 30/25 frames at 352x240 or 352x288. 
The Lens include focal length 4.2 mm to 42 mm, aperture 
F1.8 to F2.9, 10X optical zoom, and 10X digital zoom. The 
dimension of the camera is 104.5 mm in length, 104.5 mm 
in width, and 127 mm in height [26]. 
 
Fig. 3. Network camera. 
III. CONTROL SCHEME 
 There are two parts in this study. The first part is 
obstacle avoidance and fuzzy control. A CCD camera is 
used to assist the WMR in collision-free control. Distance 
between the WMR and obstacle is obtained by image 
processing technique. A fuzzy controller uses distance 
information from the camera and ultrasonic sensors to 
control the WMR for avoiding obstacles and reaching 
target location. The second part is genetic algorithm and 
garage parking. We use the StarGazer to detect location of 
the WMR. The WMR then follows a reference path to 
desired parking lot. The reference path is pre-searched by 
GA. 
A.  Obstacle avoidance and fuzzy control 
 A color model is a mathematical model describing the 
way colors can be represented as tuples of numbers, 
typically as three or four values of color components. 
Visible light is that the human eyes can sense. The range of 
visual light’s wavelength is about 400 nm to 700 nm. A 
wide range of colors can be created by the primary colors 
of pigment that are magenta, cyan, yellow, and black. These 
colors then define a specific color space. There are many 
possible color spaces. For instance, when colors are 
displayed on a computer monitor, they are usually defined 
in the RGB (red, green and blue) color space. Another way 
of making the same colors is to use their hue, their 
saturation, and their brightness value. This is called the 
HSV color space and is used in this study. Hue describes 
the shade of color and where that color is found in the color 
spectrum. Red, yellow and purple are words that describe 
hue. Fig. 4 shows the range of hues, H, as a circle 
represented by values from 0 to 360. The next most 
significant aspect of color is typically the saturation, S. The 
saturation describes how pure the hue is with respect to a 
white reference. This is illustrated in the vertical bar of Fig. 
4. Saturation is a percentage that ranges from 0 to 100. A 
pure red that has no white is 100% saturated. The 
horizontal bar in Fig. 4 illustrates a range of red values. 
Value, like saturation, is a percentage that goes from 0 to 
100. This range represents the amount of light that 
illuminates a color. The HSV color of external light can 
improve the identifiable rate of color and the speed of 
image process [27]. The RGB color space values can be 
transferred to the HSV color space values. 
 
Fig. 4. The HSV color model [27]. 
 
Fig. 5 shows the RGB image of the testing environment. 
This algorithm uses S space image to prevent the affect by 
light, as shown in Fig. 6. The testing environment is in a 
colorful space. It is not easy to get rid of environment noise 
from the obstacles. In the experiment, we use colorful 
obstacles, not a specific color, which simulates the real 
world and objects. Most of irregular patterns on the floor 
can be eliminated by using the image of S space. But some 
patterns, like the obstacles, can not be separated from 
background by setting threshold. 
 
 
Fig. 5. The RGB Image. 
 Left wheel 
Heading direction 
Right wheel 
The caster 
Lateral direction 
  Robot body 
1156
FAR and dll is NEAR, then sa is TRRAB. 
Rule 3: if drr is FAR and dr is FAR and dc is FAR and dl is 
NEAR and dll is FAR, then sa is TRRAB. 
…. 
Rule 32: if drr is NEAR and dr is NEAR and dc is NEAR 
and dl is NEAR and dll is NEAR, then sa is 
TLLASS. 
B.  Genetic algorithm and garage parking 
The GA’s good properties do not stem from the use of 
bit strings. A GA based on real number representation, 
called RGA, would seem particularly natural when 
optimization problems with variables in continuous search 
spaces are tackled. A chromosome is a vector of floating 
point numbers whose size is kept the same as the length of 
the vector, which is a solution to the problem. The 
operation mechanisms, reproduction, crossover, and 
mutation are operated by real number also. In recent years, 
a lot of researchers have done much improvement for 
crossover and mutation, in order to expect GA to have 
better performance.  
In this paper, we utilized roulette wheel selection to 
choose better parents, which is according to the fitness 
function of populations. For each generation, the 
reproduction operator chooses populations that are placed 
into a mating pool, which is used as the basis for creating 
the next generation. The crossover in the RGA is an 
important process. The crossover makes the mating pair 
pull away or get closer. The process is shown as follows: 
Pull away      
( )
( )212'2
211
'
1
xxxx
xxxx
−⋅−=
−⋅+=
σ
σ
        (8) 
Get closer      
( )
( )122'2
121
'
1
xxxx
xxxx
−⋅−=
−⋅+=
σ
σ
        (9) 
where x1 and x2 are the parents, x1
’ and x2
’ are the new 
offspring, and σ  is a random and positive small real 
value. In addition, we can also use either equation (8) or 
equation (9) with 11 <<− σ , which can determine pull 
away or get closer by the sign of σ . 
Finally an important process is the mutation, which 
permits the introduction of extra variability into the 
population. We pick out a population randomly, and change 
their gene information, but the new offspring must be in the 
range established after adding gene information. The 
process is shown below. 
noiserandsxx oldnew _⋅+=           (10) 
where s is a scaling factor to prevent range errors. 
In this part, we focus on the simulation of the garage 
parking. There are two kinds of garage parking, forward 
garage parking and backward garage parking. The 
dimension of parking area is 80 cm long by 60 cm wide. 
The RGA is used to search proper PWM value of the WMR, 
which can make the WMR achieve optimal path tracking 
control and accomplish garage parking. First, we assume 
the expected route is a straight line located in the center of 
the garage. The WMR utilizes the distance difference 
between the present position and the expected route. In this 
research, the chromosome number that we used is 10, the 
crossing rate is 0.8, mutation rate is 0.01. The searching 
goal is the PWM rotation speed of the right wheel. In the 
RGA, the choice of suitable fitness function has great effect 
on searching optimal parameter. The fitness function we 
used in this research is shown in (11). I is the deviation 
distance of the position of the center of the WMR and the 
expected route. A is a positive constant. When the WMR 
reaches the pinpoint, it will utilize the optimal parameter 
obtained from RGA to process garage parking. The 
searching processes of the fitness value versus number of 
generation are shown in Fig. 9 and Fig. 10. Figures 11 and 
12 are the simulations of the forward garage parking and 
backward garage parking. 
Fitness Function = 
I
A
     (11) 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
 
Fig. 9. Fitness value of PWM in forward garage parking. 
 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
 
Fig. 10. Fitness value of PWM in backward garage parking. 
 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
 
Fig. 11. Forward garage parking. 
 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
 
Fig. 12. Backward garage parking. 
1158
position by doing backward garage parking. Fig. 15 shows 
the control sequence for the position of garage is unknown. 
Experiment result on backward garage parking based on the 
location of the garage is unknown is shown in Fig. 16. 
 
 
Fig. 15. Control sequence for the position of garage is unknown. 
 
(1) avoiding obstacles 
 
 
(2) detecting available space for parking 
 
 
(3) starting backward parking and following the desired path 
 
 
(4) finishing parking 
Fig. 16. Obstacle avoidance and backward garage parking. 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
This paper presents application of intelligent 
computing to autonomous vehicle control. An intelligent 
control scheme based on fuzzy system and genetic 
algorithm is proposed to control a mobile robot for obstacle 
avoidance and garage parking. In this study, we integrate 
ultrasonic, visual, and localization sensors to a wheeled 
mobile robot. Several image processes are implemented in 
the control scheme. In finding edge of obstacles, the noises 
1160
無研發成果推廣資料 
研討會論文 3 0 100% 
1. 吳政興, 莊季
高, 2010,智慧型
手 機 &amp ；
#63779；芽通訊於
&amp；#63959；式
機器人控制之應
用 , Proc. of 
National 
Symposium on 
System Science 
and Engineering, 
ID-502. 
2. Wu, Chen-Han 
and Jih-Gau 
Juang, 2010, 
Application of 
Image Process 
and Fuzzy Theory 
to Dynamic 
Obstacle 
Avoidance for an 
Autonomous 
Vehicle, Proc. 
of National 
Symposium on 
System Science 
and Engineering, 
ID-514. 
3. Zhan, Jia-Jun 
and Jih-Gau 
Juang, 2010, 
Moving object 
Tracking Based 
on Real-Time 
Image for a 
Wheeled Mobile 
Robot, Proc. of 
National 
Symposium on 
System Science 
and Engineering, 
ID-520. 
 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 件數 0 0 100% 件  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
