Aligned and Ordered DNA Molecules for Nanolithography Approaching
Sub-nanometer Scale
Yuan-Hsin Chang (張源炘), Jun-Jie Cheng(程俊傑), Kuo-Feng Lo(羅國峰)
and Yi-Je Juang* (莊怡哲)
Department of Chemical Engineering
National Cheng Kung University
Abstract
One of the effective approaches to fabricate 1-D nanowires is the molecular combing/soft
lithography technique, which can generate an aligned and ordered DNA nanostrands array [1].
However, the technique and its potential for subsequent applications have not been fully
investigated. In this study, different processing parameters such as center-to-center distance,
applied pressure, peeling rate for PDMS mold and concentrations of DNA solutions were
discussed. The DNA nanostrands array was then used as the template for metallization and
fabrication of nanochannels. The results showed that proper applied pressure is required to
generate the ordered DNA nanostrands. Moreover, shorter center-to-center distance, higher
concentration of DNA solution and fast peeling rates for PDMS mold will facilitate
fabricating long DNA nanostrands. A roller technique was proposed to provide better control
over generating DNA nanostrands. As to metallization of DNA nanostrands, palladium
nanowires and hybrid metallic nanowires (palladium and cobalt) on the modified glass
substrate were obtained through electroless plating process. Proper activation time and
reduction time in conjunction with surface modification of substrate is necessary to minimize
the amount of metallic particles growing on the substrate. For fabrication of nanochannels,
h-PDMS was used and nanochannels with deep around 6 nm were obtained. This provides a
powerful alternative to fabricate long and aligned nanochannels for nanofluidic studies and
applications. In addition, new micro/nanopatterning technique was also developed in this
study.
Introduction
Nanofabrication has become one of the main streams when conducting advanced
research and development in both academia and industries. Knowing the potentials of
technology breakthrough and intense competition, researchers from all over the world have
been devoting their efforts to this field with a strikingly fast pace. It is in consensus that
nanofabrication is one key set of the methods for nanoscience and nanotechnology, bearing
high expectations of leading to revolution in significant technologies and bringing tremendous
impact to human life.
Applications of the nanofabrication techniques can be found in many areas ranging from
A droplet of palladium acetate was dispensed on the glass slide with DNA nanostrands
array for a period time in the dark (incubation or activated time). The glass slide was then
blown dry, followed by dispensing a droplet of DMAB on the glass slide for a period of time
(reduction time). After reduction, copious amount of DI water was used to rinse the glass
slide and it was blown dry and stored in the Petri dish.
To fabricate Co/Pd nanowires, a droplet of solution containing cobalt chloride, DMAB
and sodium citrate was dispensed on the glass slide with array of Pd nanowires which was
placed on the hot plate set at 50oC. After reaction, the glass slide was rinsed with copious
amount of DI water, blown dry and stored in the Petri dish.
4. Fabrication of nanochannels
h-PDMS was spun on the glass slide with the DNA nanostrands, followed by curing
inside the oven. A layer of PDMS was subsequently dispensed on top of the h-PDMS and
cured at 65oC for 2 hours. The whole assembly was peeled off from the glass slide
afterwards.
5. Capillarity-assisted micro/nanopatterning
A droplet of bovine serum albumin (BSA) with different concentrations was dispensed on
a glass substrate, followed by covering the PDMS stamp with array of microwells.
Fluorescein was added in the solution for visualization. After the solvent evaporated, the
stamp was removed and the glass slide with patterns was examined using optical microscope
and atomic force microscope (AFM).
Results and Discussion
1. Fabrication of DNA nanostrands
1.1 Effect of the applied pressure on the PDMS stamp
Figure 1 shows the generated DNA nanostrands under different applied pressure. If the
applied pressure is too small, there are hardly DNA nanostrands generated on the stamp as
shown in Figure 1(a), which might be due to lesser amount of the DNA solution inside the
Figure 1. The DNA nanostrands generated under different applied pressure: (a) 100, (b) 900,
and (c) 460 g/cm2.
(a) (b) (c)
The relationship among the types of DNA nanostrands (short or long), DNA
concentrations and C-C distance can be summarized in Table 1. In general, the shorter the
C-C distance is and the higher the DNA concentration is, the easier the long DNA
nanostrands can be generated.
Since the technique was performed by manual operation, direction and uniformity of the
DNA nanostrands on the PDMS stamp might not be well controlled, especially those near the
corners and edge of the stamp. Figure 4(a) shows the DNA nanostrands generated near the
edge of the PDMS stamp for some occasions by manual operation. By applying the roller
technique, the direction of the DNA nanostrands was better controlled as shown in Figure
4(b). Although the prototype machine was constructed (Figure 4(c)), further modification is
required to better control the roller gap, speed and so on.
2. Metallization of DNA nanostrands
2.1. Palladium (Pd) nanowires
Figure 5 shows the Pd nanowires generated at different incubation times, followed by
30-second reduction time, on the glass slide. It can be seen that there are many Pd
nanoparticles on the surface of the glass slide, which leads to the high background noise. In
order to minimize the background noise, the glass slide was modified with APTES, followed
by metallization process. The background noise was substantially reduced for the short
incubation times as shown in Figure 6. As to the long incubation time, many Pd
DNA concentration(μg/ml)
Center to Center
distance(μm)
20 50 100 200
11 △ ○ ○ ○
15 △ △ ○ ○
20 △ △ ○ ○
35 △ △ △ ○
o: 50% of the area on PDMS stamp
is long DNA nanostrands array
(bridging at least three microwells)
: 50% of the area on PDMS
stamp is short DNA nanostrands
array
Table 1. Effect of DNA concentrations and C-C distances on generating DNA nanostrands.
Figure 4. The generated DNA nanostrands near the edge by (a) manual operation and (b)
roller machine. (c) The prototype roller machine.
(a) (b) (c)
3. Fabrication of nanochannels
Figures 8(a) and (b) show the DNA nanostrands and the nanochannel replicated from the
nanostrands by h-PDMS, respectively. The depth of the nanochannel is around 6-7 nm,
which is relatively close to the height of the DNA nanostrands (~10 nm). Although the open
nanofeature was obtained, the roof of the closed nanochannel made by h-PDMS and glass will
collapse due to the strong surface interaction at such nanoscale. The criteria for roof
collapse can be described by the following [7]:
No collapse 2'
8
hE
a
<0.83
Metastable collapse 0.83< 2'
8
hE
a
<1.4
Stable collapse 1.4< 2'
8
hE
a
where a is the width of the nanochannel, is the work of adhesion between the h-PDMS
and glass, E’is the plane-strain modulus which is equal to 4/3E (E is the Young’s modulus), h
is the depth of the nanochannel. Ifis 50.6 mJ/m2 [7] and E is around 10 MPa for h-PDMS,
a is 100 nm and h is 6 nm, then 2'
8
hE
a
is around 50, which is much larger than 1.4 and leads
to stable collapse of the roof. Some other polymeric materials such as polyimide and
PMMA might be suitable for fabricating the nanochannel with such lower aspect ratio
(depth/width) due to their higher Young’s modulus (~3 GPa) and possibly lower work of
adhesion.
Figure 8. (a) DNA nanostrands (b) nanochannel replicated from DNA nanostrands.
