Abstract
One of the methods to fabricate ordered micro-structured films is the usage of water droplet
existed in humid air as template. However, humid air flow on the surface of polymer solution
during cast of porous polymeric film may lead to wave surface of the porous polymeric film.
Moreover, the influence of atmosphere humidity on the average pore size of the porous polymeric
film is significant. To avoid these flaws, an ultrasonic fogging device was employed to produce
water droplet instead of humid air. Polystyrene was used as the material of polymeric film. There
was no surfactant used in this study. The results indicated that the usage of ultrasonic fogging
device was able to fabricate even surface of porous polymeric film and reduce the influence of
atmosphere humidity on the pore size.
Keywords Polymers, Porous materials, Polystyrene
fabricate even surface of porous polymeric film and reduce the influence of atmosphere humidity
on the pore size.
Experimental
Polystyrene (Mw=192K) and trichloromethane used as solvent were purchased from Aldrich
and Shimakyu Chemical Co., respectively. Several weight percentages of polystyrene solution
were prepared, which were 0.5%, 1%, 2%, and 4% [13]. The schematic of the setup with the
auxiliary of ultrasonic fogging device is shown in Figure 1. The fog produced from ultrasonic
fogging device was introduced into a container by a tube at low flow rate. Distilled water was
used as the source of fog. A piece of glass with dimension of 3cm × 3cm was first laid inside a
dish. Polystyrene solution was poured into the dish until the glass was immersed completely.
Then the whole dish was moved to the container which was fully filled by fog. The humidity in
the container filled by fog was more than 90%. After the trichloromethane was evaporated, an
ordered porous polystyrene film was formed on the glass. The ordered porous polystyrene film
was examined using scanning electron microscope (JEOL JSM6701F).
Results and discussion
Figure 2 is ordered porous polystyrene film made from polystyrene solution of 1% coated on
the glass. Once the micro-porous film was formed, it appeared translucent. Based on our setup, it
was able to produce large scale ordered porous polystyrene film. Figure 3 and Figure 4 are the
prepare ordered porous polystyrene film.
Conclusions
The ordered porous polystyrene films were coated on the glass successfully with the auxiliary of
ultrasonic fogging device. The morphology of the porous polystyrene film made from
polystyrene solution at the weight percent of 0.5%, 1% and 2% retained an appearance of
regularity. With the auxiliary of ultrasonic fogging device, the average pore sizes are not related
to the concentration of the polymer solution at the range from 0.5 wt. % to 4 wt. %. Since the
electricity on the surface of the fog is able to prevent the water droplets from coagulation, the
sizes of water droplets were not changed significantly. Therefore, the fog produced by ultrasonic
fogging device is able to use as stable water droplet to prepare ordered porous polystyrene film.
References
1. Ibn-Elhaj M, Schadt M (2001) Optical polymer thin films with isotropic and anisotropic
nano-corrugated surface topologies. Nature 410:796-799.
2. Park MS, Kim JK (2005) Broad-Band Antireflection Coating at Near-Infrared Wavelengths
by a Breath Figure. Langmuir 21:11404-11408.
3. Hiller J, Mendelsohn JD, Rubner MF (2002) Reversibly erasable nanoporous anti-reflection
coatings from polyelectrolyte multilayers. Nature Materials 1:59-63.
4. Hou QP, Grijpma DW, Feijen J (2003) Porous polymeric structures for tissue engineering
surfactant-encapsulated polyoxometalate complex via breath figures. Polymer 50:2113–2122.
13. Peng J, Han YC, Yang YM, Li BY (2004) The inﬂuencing factors on the macroporous 
formation in polymer ﬁlms by water droplet templating. Polymer 45:447–452.
14. Luts A, Parts TE, Laakso L, Hirsikko A, Grönholm T, Kulmala M (2009) Some air
electricity phenomena caused by waterfalls: Correlative study of the spectra. Atmos res
91:229–237.
Figure captions
Figure 1 The schematic of the setup with the auxiliary of ultrasonic fogging device (1: ultrasonic
fogging device, 2: tube, 3: container, 4: glass and 5: dish)
Figure 3 The SEM figures of the ordered porous polystyrene film made from polystyrene
solutions (a: 0.5%, b: 1%, c: 2%, and d: 4%) observed from top view
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/28
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 表面粗糙化與鈍化應用在高效率矽晶太陽電池之應用
計畫主持人: 黃惠良
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-007-077- 學門領域: 能源科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
