copolymer. Morphological studies of multicompartment mi-
celles are of great importance to complement experimental
observations and advanced biomedical applications. In this
work we perform DPD to explore the morphologies of mul-
ticompartment micelles formed by ABC terpolymers in aque-
ous solutions. The effects of molecular architecture, block
length, and polymer concentration on the morphologies are
examined.
II. MODEL AND SIMULATION METHODS
The DPD method, introduced by Hoogerbrugge and
Koelman in 1992,11 is a particle-based, mesoscale simulation
technique. This method combines some of the detailed de-
scription of the MD but allows the simulation of hydrody-
namic behavior in much larger, complex systems, up to the
microsecond range. Like MD, the DPD particles obey New-
ton’s equation of motion,
dri
dt
= vi,
dvi
dt
= fi, 1
where fi denotes the total forces acting on particle i. In the
system, there are four different species of DPD particles,
including solvent S, highly hydrophobic particle A, hy-
drophobic particle B, and hydrophilic particle C.
The force is composed of three different pairwise-
additive forces: conservative FC, dissipative FD, and ran-
dom forces FR,
fi = 
ji
Fij
C + Fij
D + Fij
R . 2
These forces conserve net momentum and all acts along the
line joining the two particles. The conservative force FC for
nonbonded beads is a soft-repulsive force,
Fij
C
= aij1 − rijrˆij , rij  10, rij  1, 3
where aij is a maximum repulsion between particles i and j
and rij is the magnitude of the bead-bead vector. rˆij is the
unit vector joining beads i and j. The dissipative or drag
force has the form
Fij
D
= − wDrijrˆij · vijrˆij , 4
where vij =vi−v j and wD is a r-dependent weight function.
The form is chosen to conserve the total momentum of each
pair of particles, and therefore the total momentum of the
system is conserved. The dissipative force acts to reduce the
relative momentum between particles i and j, while random
force is to impel energy into the system. The random force
also acts between all pairs of particles as
Fij
R
= wRrijijrˆij , 5
where wR is also a r-dependent weight function and ij is a
randomly fluctuating variable with Gaussian statistics,
ijt	 = 0, ijtklt	 = ik jl + il jkt − t . 6
Note that in Brownian dynamics white noise is added to the
equation of motion for each particle independently. However,
in DPD simulation, the random force is acting along the line
of center of each pair of beads, and therefore conserves the
total momentum even it puts in energy to the system. Es-
pañol and Warren12 have shown that in order to satisfy the
fluctuation-dissipation theorem and for the system to evolve
to a steady state that corresponds to the Gibbs canonical
ensemble, only one of the two weight functions can be cho-
sen arbitrarily and this choice fixes the other weight function.
There is also a relation between the amplitudes  and  and
kBT. Therefore,
wDr = wRr2,
7
2 = 2kBT .
According to Groot and Warren,13 we choose
wDr = wRr2 = 1 − r2, r 10, r 1. 8
For polymer systems, we also have to consider the interac-
tion forces between bonded beads,
Fi,spring
C
= − 
j
Crij − reqrˆij , 9
where the sum runs over all particles to which particle i is
connected. In this work, we have chosen C=4 and req=0.0.
This choice is only a coarse-graining selection to show the
constraint imposed upon connected beads of a polymeric
chain. This choice of C and req will not affect the qualitative
behavior of the systems studied in our work.
In DPD simulations, the masses of the beads are set as 1,
therefore the force acting on a bead equals its acceleration.
Also, as we can see, all the forces except for the bonded
spring force come to zero outside a certain cutoff radius rc,
where rc=1 in this work.
In this work, we consider an aqueous solution W of
triblock copolymer representing approximately polyethyl-
ene oxide O, polyethylethylene E, and polyperfluoro-
propylene oxide F. The triblock copolymer is designated
ABCa-b-c, where a, b, and c denote the number of DPD
particles associated with A, B, and C blocks, respectively. To
compare with the experimental observation, we investigate
miktoarm star OEFx-6-7 and linear OEFx-6-7, where x
varies from 10 to 20.
The interaction parameters chosen are aOE=40, aOF
=45, aEF=42.5, aOW=25.3, aEW=50, and aFW=60. Note that
these interaction parameters aij are not randomly selected.
They are so chosen in an attempt to retain the characteristic
interactions associated with water W, polyethylene oxide
O, polyethylethylene E, and polyperfluoropropylene ox-
ide F. These interaction parameters can be estimated
based on the relationship between a and the Flory-Huggins
parameter  established by Groot and Warren,13 for density
	=3,
aij = aii + 3.497ij . 10
where aii=25 leads to the compressibility of water. There-
fore, if species i and j are fairly compatible, ij
0 and aij

25. As incompatibility between i and j increases, aij in-
creases. The  parameters for different pair species can be
194903-2 Chou, Tsao, and Sheng J. Chem. Phys. 125, 194903 2006
Downloaded 24 Jan 2007 to 140.112.23.240. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
the use of classical molecular dynamics at atomic resolution
is a challenge at present, owing to the length and time scales
at which these phenomena can occur. However, mesoscale
simulations such as dissipative particle dynamics can treat a
wide range of length and time scales by many orders of
magnitude compared to atomistic simulations. In this paper,
DPD is performed to explore the morphologies of structured
micelles formed by ABC triblock terpolymer with three mu-
tually immiscible blocks, including miktoarm star and linear
architectures.
It was experimentally reported that miktoarm star ter-
polymers OEF, as schematically illustrated in Fig. 1a, can
form “hamburger” micelles and “segmented-worm” micelles
by varying the length of hydrophilic block O. Those struc-
tured micelles are also observed by DPD recently for star
copolymer of relatively short block lengths OEF x-4-2
with the volume fraction at 0.1.15 In their study, the repulsive
interactions between F block and others are very strong, i.e.,
aWF=120, aEF=75, and aOF=90. In the current study, we
examine the structure of the micelle formed by star copoly-
mer OEF x-6-7 of comparatively long block lengths but
with weaker repulsions for aXF, where X=O, E, or W. This
choice allows the formation of micelles with large enough
hydrophobic domains that can be clearly identified. We focus
on the effect of the copolymer concentration on the micellar
structures in addition to varying the length of the O block.
For the miktoarm star with a fixed length of O block,
i.e., OEF 20-6-7, both discrete hamburger micelles Fig.
1b and segmented-worm micelles Fig. 1c can be ob-
served depending on the polymer concentration. The discrete
micelle is formed at very low concentration and consists of a
F core, surrounded by a few E nanodomains. In general, two
E nanodomains are found on top and bottom of the F core to
form EFE hamburger micelles Fig. 1b. The O blocks
emanate from the E-F interface and curl around to protect
the hydrophobic core. As polymeric concentration increases,
elongated, wormlike structures emerge Fig. 1c. The
worms are layered with alternating sections of F and E
blocks along the long axis. The O coronas are shared by E
and F layers to shield them from the highly unfavorable
exposure to water. The segmented-worm micelle is always
formed for star x-6-7 as long as the polymer concentration
is high enough. The onset concentration for the formation of
segmented-worm micelles is increased with the hydrophilic
O block length. When the hydrophilic O block is large
x=20, the O block screen the hydrophobic core effectively
and the hamburger micelles can survive at higher concentra-
tion. On the other hand, for stars with shorter O blocks
x=10, segmented worms form at a much lower concentra-
tion. This is because by forming into segmented worms can
the hydrophobic blocks E and F be able to share their O
coronas and avoid direct contact with the solvents. When the
concentration is even higher, the segmented micelles may
join together to form segmented network, as illustrated in
Fig. 1d.
Our simulation results indicate that OEF star copolymer
with a given composition i.e., the length of each individual
block is fixed may form different micellar morphologies by
varying the polymer concentration. Altering the copolymer
composition just influences the onset concentration associ-
ated with a particular morphology. It should be emphasized
that the change of the micellar morphology by varying poly-
mer concentration is not like the first-order transition at all.
We often observe micelles with different morphologies coex-
isting at a given polymer concentration. For example, both
hamburger and segmented-worm micelles are observed in
Fig. 1c. However, the ratio of the two different micellar
species will gradually change with the concentration. This
simulation result is consistent with experimental
observation.3,9 As shown in cryo-TEM images for miktoarm
star, different micellar morphologies hamburger and seg-
mented worm can coexist. If one regards a hamburger mi-
celle as the elementary unit of a segmented-worm micelle,
then only one type of micelle exists in the solution but with
a very wide size distribution large polydispersity. Never-
theless, the size distribution will vary with polymer concen-
tration. Since the crossover between different micellar mor-
phologies is not a discontinuous phase transition, a
conventional phase diagram cannot be defined simply. In
general, Figs. 1b–1d illustrate the morphology of mik-
toarm star changes mainly from hamburger, segmented-
worm micelle, to segmented-worm network as the copoly-
mer concentration is increased.
In addition to miktoarm star, various morphologies of
multicompartment micelles can be disclosed by linear tri-
block copolymers with different arrangements of the three
blocks, OEF, OFE, and EOF. The schematic representations
FIG. 2. Color online a Schematic representation of a linear triblock
copolymer OEF. b Simulation results of micelles formed by linear OEF
20-6-7. For clarity, we remove O blocks in the snapshots. c Morphology
of a single core/shell/corona micelle formed by linear OEF 20-6-7.
194903-4 Chou, Tsao, and Sheng J. Chem. Phys. 125, 194903 2006
Downloaded 24 Jan 2007 to 140.112.23.240. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
