 前瞻系統層次之電子高解析度倍頻掃描研發與設計 
Advanced Electronic System Level Research and Design  
for High Definition Video Frame Rate Conversion 
計畫編號： NSC95-2221-E-006-481－ 
執行期間：95 年 08 月 01 日至 96 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：李國君 成功大學電機工程系助理教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
移動補償倍頻掃描器在各種視訊應用，特
別是在高解析度視訊裡扮演很重要的角色。其
不僅能夠轉換不同視訊格式，同時提高畫面掃
描頻率以提供流暢的播放畫面，然而此種高品
質處理同時亦伴隨著複雜的積體電路設計之
代價。在本計畫中，我們使用電子系統層次設
計法來發展高解析度移動補償倍頻掃描及其
所需之解交錯掃描器，在兩者及移動估計器之
共同作用下進行精確的時域方向補點 ，在高
解析度時其最高掃描頻率高達每秒 90 張圖，
同時以硬體實現而言具有低複雜度的特性。 
英文摘要 
Motion-compensated (MC) scan-rate 
converter plays an important role in assorted 
video applications especially in high definition 
(HD) which converts one format to another and 
renders fluent visual quality of higher frame rate. 
However, such high quality processing brings 
the cost of complex VLSI design. In this project, 
we employ electronic system level design 
methodology to develop an HD MC scan rate 
converter and the deinterlacing for it, which 
collaboratively exhibit excellent temporal 
interpolation and features low cost in VLSI 
implementation. The maximum converted frame 
rate reaches 90 frames/s for HD. 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
Video SoC designs, due to its increased 
complexity and high demands for visual quality 
are among the most challenging tasks for 
multimedia IC research and development.  As 
the end users places higher and higher 
expectations on video quality and features 
resulting in greater chip complexity, electronic 
system level (ESL) designs with concentration 
on the coherency of algorithm and architecture 
in early design stages are crucial to the success 
of modern SoC designs.  
The diversity of video for computers and 
TV standards over the last few decades has led 
to a versatile of numerous formats for video 
displays [5].  With the rapid blooming of digital 
video, optoelectronics technology and 
requirements for backward compatible, the 
convergence of various video display formats is 
thus inevitable and much needed. Due to the 
introduction of new broadcasting technologies 
such as ATSC, DVB, etc for Digital Television 
(DTV) and High Definition TV (HDTV) and 
applications such as video on demand over the 
internet, those seemingly separate domains such 
as computers and TV’s can now be bridged by 
employing format conversions including 
deinterlacer, scan rate (frame rate) converter, 
image scaler, etc. As the human eyes are capable 
of discerning flickerng due to insufficient frame 
rate at less than 85 Hz, a frame rate converter to 
increase the sampling rate of video frames in the 
time domain after deinterlacing SD or HD 
[3][4], which further enhances the its 
content-adaptivity.  
 
3. Motion-compensated frame-rate 
conversion and format converter 
Fig. 1 shows the datapath of UPC in the 
format converter. UPC temporally interpolates 
one or two frames with the reference of current 
picture and the previous frame and also the assist 
of MV. The conceptual diagram of our MC UPC 
is shown in Fig. 2. Theoretically, the best 
temporal reference with the highest correlation is 
the MC samples, mc_sample_prev and 
mc_sample_curr. We apply average and median 
filter to these MC and non-MC samples to 
achieve content-based majority selection (CBMS) 
in producing accurate interpolation. The motion 
vectors are also the features to characterize the 
local contents which adaptively adjusted the 
confidence level of the MC samples.  
 The manipulation on MV and the flexible 
temporal interpolation position enables the 
scalable up conversion ratio independent of the 
input frame rate. The maximum conversion ratio 
is three, which turns the maximum frame rate of 
HD video into 90 frame/s. Hence the temporal 
flickering is drastically eliminated.  
 
四、 成果 
1. Deinterlacing with edge pattern 
recognition 
The content-adaptivity of edge pattern 
recognition (EPR) toward both textures and 
edges interpolation shows our contribution in 
deterlacing. It surpasses edge based line average 
(ELA) [xx] and enhanced based line average 
(EELA) [xx] in different textures on an average 
in TABLE II. In Fig. 3 EPR also interpolates 
edges sharply as EELA does while line average 
(LA) introduces jaggedness. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Edge interpolation of different algorithm 
(a)LA (b) EELA (c) EPR 
  (a)            (b)            (c)  
n 
n-1 zero vector 
frame 
frame 
Interpolated frame 
sample_curr 
mc_sample_curr
sample_prev 
mc_sample_prev 
field number 
motion vector 
Fig. 2 Conceptual diagram of up conversion 
ME DEI UPC
Frame buffer 
Fields input
Format converter 
Fig. 1 Datapath of Format Converter 
Up converted frames
TABLE II  
PSNR of the Intra-interpolation Methods in dB 
 LA ELA EELA EPR  
Waves 32.32 31.29 32.05 32.72 
Grass 34.45 31.49 33.31 33.45 
Trees 26.33 25.73 25.95 25.90 
Bricks&Tree 29.18 28.64 28.96 28.94 
Average 30.57 29.29 30.07 30.25 
摘要 
筆者於今年撰寫論文 Motion Adaptive Deinterlacing via Edge 
Pattern Recognition 並投稿至 2007 年電路與系統國際研討會
(2007 International Symposium on Circuits and Systems, 
ISCAS2007)，經審查後為大會接受並指定為口頭論文報告。
筆者蒙國科會補助經費於 5/26 出發前往美國紐奧良參加研
討會並發表論文，與國際研究學者交換意見，於此報告中提
出心得。 
一、目的 
參與第 40 屆 ISCAS(International Symposium on Circuits and 
Systems)會議。發表論文口頭報告，與國外研究學者講解個人研究內
容的經驗，期待獲得許多研究前輩之指教與讚賞，對於互相交流學術
研究有所助益。 
二、過程 
2007 年電路與系統國際研討會(2007 International Symposium on 
Circuits and Systems, ISCAS2007)於 5 月 27 日至 5 月 30 日在美國路易
斯安那州紐奧良舉行，本屆 ISCAS 共計有 2174 篇論文投稿，最後接
受來至世界各地 1065 篇論文發表，接受率約 49%，依論文特色與領
域共有 30 個技術主題，分 24 個平行場次（含 12 個口頭報告與 12
個論文壁報）同時進行，同時本次研討會在議程的設計上，除了一般
性的論文發表外，大會亦特別安排了三天的技術展覽及三場專題演
講，分別介紹三個極具潛力及前瞻性的研究領域，其演講主題與演講
者資訊摘錄如下：(1) Redshift - the explosion of massive scale and its 
implications for circuits and systems (by Dr. Greg Papadopoulos), (2) Si 
Technology Roadmap For Ubiquitous Computing, Sensing, and 
Perception (by Dr. Dennis Buss), (3) Emotional Intelligence Technology 
and the Death of Clippy (by Dr. Rosalind W. Picard)。 
