2 
 
目錄 
 
中文摘要                                                      3 
英文摘要                4 
前言                   5 
實驗與模擬方法                  9 
結果與討論                11 
結論                  25 
參考文獻                26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
英文摘要 
Keywords: optical thin films, nanostructures, surface plasmon polariton, nanoimprint 
lithography, tunable filter 
In this project, we investigate special optical characteristics of optical thin films with 
nanostructures. Combining with thin film interference, index matching, and surface plasma 
effects, thin films with nanostructures are designed for increasing the external quantum 
efficiency of novel optoelectronic devices. We develop several nano-patterning techniques, 
including nanoimprint lithography, electron-beam lithography, and nanoparticles template 
techniques for constructing the optimal structures in solar cell and solid-state lighting devices, 
such as organic light-emitting diodes in the future.  The nanostructured thin films can be 
used to enhance the absorption or propagation of light in solar cells and solid-state lighting 
devices. Furthermore, the metallic nanostructures with surface plasma effect will also 
dramatically increase the quantum efficiency of devices.  
In the nano-patterning process, we describe a thermal embossing imprint method, which 
we name “nano-imprinting in metal” (NIM), for patterning metal films with a variety of 
profiles. Metal films exhibiting either perforated hole-arrays or corrugated structures with 
various surface morphologies can be fabricated rapidly. The SPR phenomenon allowed 
energy coupling to the other side of the textured metal film, causing a dramatic increase in the 
transmission. As a technique for readily controlling the working wavelength and 
transmittance, the NIM method has great potential for application in various optoelectronic 
devices. 
 
 
 
6 
 
under a suitable pressure and temperature. The etching step that is required to transfer the 
structure to the underlying substrate tends to limit the technique’s throughput and increase the 
cost of fabrication. Recently, a direct imprinting process for gold films was reported using an 
ultra-high imprinting pressure (several hundred megapascals) and an oil-press imprint 
instrument. Generally, such processes utilizing ultra-high pressures would, however, damage 
the underlying substrates or devices. In the earlier work, we improved upon the direct-imprint 
processes by using a sharp mold and a soft pad layer to reduce the imprint pressure. When 
using suitable processes, the imprint pressure in the NIM method could be reduced to become 
compatible with conventional imprinting processes. The imprint pressure of NIM was only ca. 
1% of that used in the previous process of directly imprinting in the metal. Using NIM, metal 
films with various profiles can be obtained readily when using variously shaped molds and 
imprinting pressures. In this study, the patterned metals we formed not only possessed the 
inverse shape of the mold but also exhibited corrugated structures of various depths. 
Furthermore, we extend the NIM technique to perforating metal thin-films, creating 2D 
metallic hole arrays, and experimentally verifying plasmonic behavior in patterned devices. 
  Generally, metallic hole arrays have been patterned using focused ion beam (FIB) or 
electron beam lithography combing lift-off or etching processes. In this study, we used a 
sharp mold with a suitable pressure to perforate the hole arrays on the metal films. Therefore, 
we could rapidly fabricate metal structures possessing either corrugated or perforated 
structures using the NIM method, which allowed us to study the special surface plasmons 
phenomena of metals exhibiting various surface morphologies. In this study, we observed that 
the localized maximum of the electric field at the tip of a corrugated metal film could allow 
the energy to readily couple to the other side of the metal film, increasing the transmission 
dramatically. 
 
Part B Using direct nanoimprinting of ferroelectric films to prepare devices exhibiting 
bi-directionally tunable surface plasmon resonances 
Nanoimprinting lithography, a potential candidate for next-generation lithographic 
technology, allows rapid, large-area, and low-cost patterning of polymer-based resists. The 
standard NIL technique uses a thermoplastic resist and defines patterns through physical 
deformation of deformable polymer materials (resists) by heating them above their glass 
transition temperate (Tg). After removing the mold, the pattern is transferred to the underlying 
substrates through etching processes. Direct patterning of the underlying materials—i.e., 
without etching—would accelerate the fabrication processes. Such an approach has been 
8 
 
ceramics. Furthermore, PZT films can exhibit a sufficient change in refractive index when an 
electric field is applied, making them suitable for application in electro-optical and 
piezoelectric devices. In this study, we used the direct imprinting process to fabricate tunable 
filters based on SPR phenomena. We surrounded the periodical metal surfaces with PZT 
films, patterning the corrugated metal and PZT stack in one imprinting step. Combining the 
piezoelectric properties of PZT films with the SPR phenomena of periodic metal structures, 
we studied the tunability of the latter when applying external electric fields. Furthermore, the 
corrugated PZT/metal/PZT stack could also be compressed or extended when the external 
electric fields were applied in certain directions. Thus, the period of the corrugated metal/PZT 
structures could also be tuned by applying an external electric field, which also affected the 
properties of the surface plasmon of the periodical metal structures. When we applied an 
electric field to the PZT/metal/PZT structure, the refractive index of the surrounding PZT 
films and the period of the metal structure both changed as a result of the piezoelectric 
properties of the PZT films. Therefore, we believe that our technique for fabricating 
metal/ferroelectric structures exhibiting variable tuning phenomena will make surface 
plasmon-based filters more applicable for use in future devices. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
Part B Using direct nanoimprinting of ferroelectric films to prepare devices exhibiting 
bi-directionally tunable surface plasmon resonances 
Ferroelectric PZT films were patterned by imprinting gel films, which were prepared by 
metal-organic decomposition (MOD) of solutions (Kojundo, Japan). The PZT gel films were 
spin-coated onto glass and SrTiO3 substrates at a thickness of ca. 200 nm. A gold film having 
the thickness of ca. 50 nm was then deposited on the PZT film to form a gold/PZT stack. The 
silicon molds used in these experiments were fabricated through sequential electron beam 
lithography (Leica, Weprint-200) and reactive ion etching. A high-density-plasma 
reactive-ion-etching (HDP-RIE) system (Duratek, Mutiplex Cluster) equipped with an 
inductively coupled plasma (ICP) source was used to fabricate the sharp molds. During the 
imprinting processes, an imprinting pressure of ca. 20 MPa was applied at room temperature. 
After imprinting, the PZT film was coated on the patterned gold/PZT stack to form a 
PZT/Au/PZT structure. The samples were first dried at 120 °C for 30 min and then pyrolyzed 
at 450 °C for 30 min in air. Finally, the samples were annealed at 650–800 °C for 60 min to 
obtain the perovskite phase. The surface profiles of the patterned films were observed using a 
JEOL JSM6500F scanning electron microscope (SEM). Optical spectra were measured using 
a Hitachi U4100 spectrophotometer. The ellipsometric parameters Ψ and ∆ of the PZT films 
were measured using a Sopra SE5 ellipsometer. The ellipsometric data were fitted using a 
classical Lorentz oscillator model for the acquisition of refractive indices. The piezoelectric 
properties of the PZT films under various external applied potentials were measured using a 
Seiko SPA-300 electrostatic force microscope. 
12 
 
 
To study these extraordinary transmission phenomena, we used an optical spectrometer 
to measure transmission spectra of the textured metal films. Figure 3(a) displays the 
transmission spectrum of a flat gold film having a thickness of 45 nm; we observe only an 
intrinsic transmission peak for gold at 510 nm. The transmission of the gold intrinsic peak 
varied only with respect to the thickness of the gold film. After performing the imprinting 
process, Figure 3(a) indicates that the transmission spectrum of the corrugated gold film 
displayed weak transmission peaks at 530 and 670 nm that arose from the surface plasmons 
resonance modes at the air–gold and resist–gold interfaces, respectively. The weak 
transmission enhancement was due to the mismatch of the refractive indices on both sides of 
the asymmetrically corrugated metal film (i.e., air/corrugated gold film/resist). This refractive 
index mismatch in the asymmetric structure caused weak surface plasmons coupling between 
the two sides of the textured gold film. After coating a resist film as an index-matching layer 
above the corrugated gold film, Figure 3(a) indicates that the transmission of the symmetric 
structure (i.e., resist/corrugated gold film/resist) increased dramatically, presumably because 
of the surface plasmons excited at the two interfaces had the same wave vector and resonated 
with one another. In this symmetric structure, we observed a strong transmission peak at 680 
nm having a transmittance of 45%, much higher than that of the flat gold film. The enhanced 
transmission near 680 nm arose from the fundamental mode of the surface plasmons 
resonance at the resist–gold interface in the corrugated gold film having a period of 400 nm. 
The transmittance increased further to 50% after increasing the imprint pressure to 16 MPa. 
 
                                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
400 600 800 1000 1200 1400
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
 
 
 T
ra
ns
m
itt
an
ce
 (%
)
 resist/ flat gold film /air
 resist/ corrugated gold film /air
 resist/ corrugated gold film /resist
Wavelength(nm)
14 
 
Next, we investigated the optical propagation mechanism using the FDTD method. 
Because the FDTD method calculates the electromagnetic fields over the entire 
computational domain as they evolve over time, it lends itself to providing animated displays 
of the electromagnetic field’s movement through the model. We used the FDTD method to 
analyze the propagation of light within the near-field regime of the continuously corrugated 
metal film structures. As presented in Figure 4, a plane wave having a wavelength of 680 nm 
was propagated from 1 µm above the symmetric structure (resist/gold film/resist) in the 
presence or absence of a corrugated pattern in the gold film having a thickness of 45 nm. 
Figure 4(a) displays the plane wave that propagated to the thin gold film in the absence of a 
textured structure. Because the gold film absorbed most of the incident light, we observed 
that no apparent transmission electric field existed below the thin gold film. Similarly, Figure 
4(b) displays the plane wave that propagated to the gold film having a continuously 
corrugated structure with a period of 400 nm and a depth of 40nm; we find that the 
transmission field had increased significantly. After increasing the depth of the corrugated 
structure to 90 nm, a higher transmission field was found [Fig. 4(c)]. 
 
                           
 
 (a)                          (b)                      (c) 
Fig. 4. FDTD diagrams of (a) a flat gold film and (b) a gold film possessing a 
continuous corrugated structure having a period of 400 nm and a depth of 
40nm (c) a depth of 90nm 
After monitoring the propagation of the transmission electric field through the 
continuously corrugated film, we found that the transmission electric field exhibited a 
localized maximum at the tip of the corrugated gold film. Because of its large curvature, the 
electric field was concentrated at the tips of the corrugated gold film after performing the 
NIM process. We found that the localized maximum of the electric field allowed the energy 
to readily couple to the other side of the corrugated gold film, causing the increased 
  Time(µs)  Time(µs)  Time(µs)
16 
 
550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 1000
0
10
20
30
40
50
16MPa
12MPa
8MPa
6MPa
 
 16MPa
 12MPa
 8MPa
 6MPa
 2.5MPa
Wavelength (nm)
Tr
an
sm
itt
an
ce
 (%
)
2.5MPa
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
 
2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
Tr
an
sm
itt
an
ce
 (%
)
Pressure (MPa)
400nm
18 
 
 
Part B Using direct nanoimprinting of ferroelectric films to prepare devices 
exhibiting bi-directionally tunable surface plasmon resonances 
 
Ferroelectric PZT films were patterned (Figure 7) by imprinting gel films, which were prepared 
by metal-organic decomposition (MOD) of solutions (Kojundo, Japan). Figure 8 displays microscopy 
images of directly nano-imprinted patterned ferroelectric films. The inset of Figure 8(a) displays an 
SEM image of a sharp silicon mold used to imprint the gold/PZT structure. Figure 8(a) also displays 
SEM and atomic force microscopy (AFM) images of patterned gold/PZT structures. The depth and 
period of the gold/PZT structure were ca. 200 and 800 nm, respectively. To improve their 
piezoelectric properties, it was necessary to sinter the patterned PZT films at high temperature, but 
this process led to serious shrinking and destruction of the patterns. To avoid this problem, we placed 
a PZT cover film as a coat over the bi-layer gold/PZT structure, forming a PZT/gold/PZT sandwich 
structure. This sandwich structure prevented serious distortion of the patterned gold/PZT structure by 
balancing the shear stresses experienced during treatment at high temperature. Figure 8(b) indicates 
that the period of the PZT/gold/PZT structure reduced to ca. 700 nm after sintering. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.7 Schematic representations of the process for nano-imprinting for the patterning 
patterned metal/ferroelectric structures.
20 
 
the corresponding optical spectra. In Figure 9(a), the SPR wavelength of a patterned sandwich structure 
appeared at ca. 1169 nm at in the initial state (no applied potential). Upon applying a potential of +5 V, the 
SPR peak blue-shifted to 1148 nm. Increasing this potential to +7 V caused the SPR peak to shift in the 
opposite direction, i.e., to a longer wavelength of ca. 1158 nm. Further increases to +10 and +15 V led to 
dramatic red-shifts of the SPR peak to 1227 and 1244 nm, respectively. 
 
1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
N
or
m
al
iz
e 
tr
an
sm
itt
an
ce
 (a
.u
.)
Wavelength (nm)
 Flat gold/PZT film 
 Patternned gold/PZT film
 
Fig. 9 Transmission spectra of gold/PZT films before and after patterning with periodical structures. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
Fig. 10  Schematic Cartoon diagrams representations of patterned PZT/gold/PZT structures (a) 
before in the absence of an applying applied voltagepotential and (b, c) after, (b) applying 
positive voltage and (c) applying negative voltagepotentials, respectively. 
22 
 
 
The SPR wavelengths of periodic metallic structures are highly sensitive to their periods and to the 
refractive index of their surrounding materials. We suspected that the tunable SPR phenomena exhibited by 
our devices were influenced by both of these factors. A red-shift in the SPR band is induced by either 
increasing the period of the metallic structure or increasing the refractive index of its surrounding medium; 
correspondingly, a blue-shift is induced by decreasing the period or decreasing the refractive index. First, let 
us consider the refractive index change of the PZT films. We used an ellipsometer to measure the refractive 
indices of PZT films before and after applying an external potential. The measured refractive index of the 
PZT film was 2.303 in the absence of an applied voltage. After applying both positive and negative external 
potentials of 5, 10, and 15 V, we measured the refractive indices of PZT films to be 2.310, 2.397, and 2.410, 
respectively. Thus, the refractive indices of PZT films increased upon increasing the amount of positive or 
negative potential. For refractive index increments (△nPZT) of 0.007, 0.094, and 0.107, the SPR wavelength 
shifts calculated from equation (1) should be 5, 80, and 90 nm, respectively. Because these calculated values 
do not match the measured values from Figure 3, the refractive index changes of the PZT films were not 
solely responsible for the SPR phenomena. 
The patterned PZT/gold/PZT structures possessed voids [Figure 10(a)] within their PZT films prior to 
applying a potential. Figure 8(b) suggests that the voids might have formed as a result of constriction of the 
PZT films during the sintering process, which would affect the effective refractive index of the surrounding 
PZT films and have an uncertain effect on the SPR wavelength shift. As displayed in Figure 10(b), the 
patterned PZT/gold/PZT structure was subjected to tension under applied positive voltages. We propose that 
the period of the patterned gold structure decreased under the tensile stress of the piezoelectric materials, 
causing the SPR wavelength to blue-shift accordingly. Because the refractive index of surrounding PZT film 
increased at the same time, which would increase the SP resonance wavelength, the two competing 
phenomena resulted in the observed experimental results in Figure 11 (a): an initial blue-shift of SPR 
wavelength under small positive potentials with a subsequent red-shift of the SPR band upon further 
increasing the positive potential. 
As depicted in Figure 10(c), applying a negative potential compressed the patterned PZT/gold/PZT 
structure; therefore, we expected its period to increase under the compressive stress of the piezoelectric 
materials. At the same time, the refractive index of the surrounding PZT film increased upon increasing the 
negative potential. Both of these phenomena lead to shifting of the SPR band to longer wavelength, 
consistent with the experimental observations in Figure 5(b). As displayed in the Figure 8(b), there are air 
-15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15
-300
-200
-100
0
100
200
300
Pi
ez
or
es
po
ns
e 
(p
m
/V
)
Voltage (V)
 
Fig. 12 Piezoelectric coefficient (d33) of PZT films plotted as a function of the applied voltages 
potential. 
 
 
 26
 
參考文獻 
1. T. W. Ebbesen, H. J. Lezec, H. F. Ghaemi, T. Thio, and P. A. Wolff, “Extraordinary 
optical transmission through sub-wavelength hole arrays,” Nature 391, 667 (2005). 
2. W. L. Barnes, A. Dereux, and T. W. Ebbesen, ”Surface plasmon subwavelength optics,” 
Nature 424, 824 (2003). 
3. H. W. Gao, J. Henzie, T. W. Odom, “Direct evidence for surface plasmon-mediated 
enhanced light transmission through metallic nanohole arrays,” Nano Lett. 6, 2104 (2006). 
4. N. Bonod, S. Enoch, L. Li, E. Popov, and M. Neviere, “Resonant optical transmission 
through thin metallic films with and without holes,” Opt. Express 11, 482 (2003) 
http://www.opticsinfobase.org/abstract.cfm?URI=oe-11-5-482 
5. I. Avrutsky, Y. Zhao, and V. Kochergin, “Surface-plasmon-assisted resonant tunneling of 
light through a periodically corrugated thin metal film,” Opt. Lett. 25, 595 (2005). 
6. Z. M. Zhu, and T. G. Brown, “Nonperturbative analysis of cross coupling in corrugated 
metal films,” J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 17, 1798 (2000). 
7. S. Wedge, I. R. Hooper, I. Sage, and W. L. Barnes, “Light emission through a corrugated 
metal film: The role of cross-coupled surface plasmon polaritons,” Phys. Rev. B 69, 
245418 (2004). 
8. B. F. Bai, L. F. Li, and L. J. Zeng, “Experimental verification of enhanced transmission 
through two-dimensionally corrugated metallic films without holes,” Opt. Lett. 30, 2360 
(2005). 
9. H. L. Chen, S. Y. Chuang, H. C. Cheng, C. H. Lin, and T. C. Chu, “Directly patterning 
metal films by nanoimprint lithography,” Microelectron. Eng. 83, 893 (2006). 
10. M. T. Li, L. Chen, and S. Y. Chou, “Direct three-dimensional patterning using 
nanoimprint lithography,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 78, 3322 (2001). 
11. D. H. Kim, W. J. Chin, S. S. Lee, S. W. Ahn, and K. D. Lee, “Tunable polymeric Bragg 
grating filter using nanoimprint technique,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 071120 (2006). 
12. T. Martensson, P. Carlberg, M. Borgstrom, L. Montelius, W. Seifert, and L. Samuelson, 
“Nanowire arrays defined by nanoimprint lithography,” Nano Lett. 4, 699 (2004). 
13. B. C. Okerberg, C. L. Soles, J. F. Douglas, H. W. Ro, A. Karim, and D. R. Hines, 
“Crystallization of poly(ethylene oxide) patterned by nanoimprint lithography,” 
Macromolecules 40, 2968 (2007). 
14. V. Reboud, N. Kehagias, M. Zelsmann, C. Schuster, M. Fink, F. Reuther, G. Gruetzner, 
and C. M. Sotomayor Torres,  “Photoluminescence enhancement in nanoimprinted 
photonic crystals and coupled surface plasmons,” Opt. Express 15, 7190 (2007) 
http://www.opticsinfobase.org/abstract.cfm?URI=oe-15-12-7190. 
15. H. Yoshihiko, U. Toshihiko, K. Tomohiro, and M. Takashi, SPIE-Int. Soc. Opt. Eng. 74, 
5220 (2003). 
參加 Photonics Europe 2008 研討會報告 
 
報告人 陳學禮 計畫編號 95-2221-E-002-324-MY2 
- 
職 稱 副教授 系 所 台灣大學材料科學與工
程學系 
開會時
間 
97 年 4 月 7 日至 4 月 11 日 地 點 法國 Strasbourg 
名 稱 Photonics Europe 2008 主辦單位  SPIE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
內容： 
 
一、學術地位與重要性 
二、出國日程 
三、研討會內容及重點 
四、心得及建議 
 
 
2008 年 7 月 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
toughest issues facing optical and photonics technologies today as the basis 
for their programme. These current research issues will drive the 
development of new products for years to come. 
 
另外本次大會共分為如下的 18 個不同的子會議 
Metamaterials 
Nanophotonics  
Photonic Crystal Materials and Devices 
Photonic Crystal Fibres 
Biophotonics: Photonic Solutions for Better Health Care 
Micro-Optics  
MEMS, MOEMS and Micromachining 
Photon Management 
Optical Micro- and Nanometrology in Microsystems Technology  
Silicon Photonics and Photonic Integrated Circuits 
Semiconductor Lasers and Laser Dynamics 
Solid State Lasers and Amplifiers 
Organic Optoelectronics and Photonics 
Optical and Digital Image Processing 
Photonics in Multimedia 
Photonics for Solar Energy Systems 
Optical Sensors 
Photonics in the Automobile 
 
二、出國日程 
 本次出國之行程，由於台灣飛往法國巴黎的航班已經停班，且其他
航空公司飛往法國巴黎的機票也是一票難求。因此作者只好飛往德國
慕尼黑再搭乘約 5 小時的鐵路前往法國 Strasbourg，但也是因此有機會
能順道參觀慕尼黑的教育學術單位。另作者印象最為深刻的是參觀慕
尼黑的德意志科技博物館，這個博物館是全世界最大的工程科技的博
物館，對工學院的學生來說，是一個非常好的教育場所。以材料領域
而言包含金屬、陶瓷、高分子及半導體與光電材料，都各有獨自的展
覽及教育場地，作者也實際見到德國當地工程領域的學生，如何透徹
地利用該項教育資源，實可供國內工程教育提供良好之借鏡。 
performance through the operation of internally distributed charge 
separation and transport junctions. In this work we report results on the 
use of CNTs, C60, C70 fullerenes and their derivatives for enhanced 
performance in polymer solar cells. Sandwich-structured polymer solar 
cells with nanocomposite layers have been investigated. Different types 
of carbon nanomaterials were blended with P3HT to form the active 
layers of the devices. The photovoltaic properties of these blends were 
investigated to compare their performance in the study. 
另外有一篇文章 “Impact of light on P3HT/PCBM organic solar 
cells: evolution of the chemical structure, morphology and photovoltaic 
properties of the active layer” by A. Rivaton, M. Manceau, S. Chambon, 
J. L. Gardette, Univ. Blaise Pascal (France); 為了有機太陽能電池日後
真的可以長時間的在陽光曝曬之下使用，作者仔細地研究了有機太
陽能電池之主動層，經光線長時間照射後，利用各種分析工具，作
結構的分析，其文章之摘要如下。 
Organic solar cells, though less effi cient than silicones devices, 
exhibit a unique combination of valuable properties: cheap technology, 
lightness, flexibility and large surface process ability. Systems based on 
P3HT/PCBM are the most competitive due to their good photovoltaic 
performances. Their successful commercialization is determined by the 
combination of three factors: efficiency, cost and lifetime. Satisfactory 
lifetime in conditions of real use is a crucial factor for the development 
of viable devices. Previous studies demonstrated that stability is affected 
by the ageing of the cathode, the interfaces and the active layer which 
durability obviously limits the lifetime of the cell. Surprisingly, only few 
papers deal with the behaviour of the active layer under continuous 
exposure to light. We have focused for several years our attention on the 
photochemical durability of this active layer. In this communication, we 
present results on the ageing of P3HT/PCBM blends under UV-visible 
irradiation. Accelerated artifi cial ageing and outdoor exposure were 
carried out. The infl uence of various parameters such as the temperature 
and the presence of oxygen was studied. The evolution of the chemical 
structure of both the components of the blend was monitored by 
spectroscopic analysis (infrared, UV-visible), the morphology of the 
blend was analysed by AFM and XRD and the photovoltaic 
performances all along the exposure were recorded. Results show that a 
convenient encapsulation can ensure a promising lifetime of 
P3HT/PCBM blends in real conditions of use. 
  另有一篇文章  “Photonic crystals for enhancing the absorption of 
organic photovoltaic materials” by D. Duché, L. Escoubas, J. Simon, P. 
Torchio, Univ. Paul Cézanne (France);, 作者宣稱成功地利用光子晶體結
mechanisms are identified. Bulk component degradation is clearly 
distinguished from interfacial failure. We present highly efficient flexible 
OPVs encapsulated with low cost flexible packaging reaching 1500 hours 
LT under 65 °C in the dark, 1500 hours LT under 65 °C light soaking and 
1000 hours LT under 65 °C/85 % relative humidity with less than 20 % 
losses from their initial PCE values. The presentation reviews the main 
limitations on the current LT performance and the potential application of 
the long lived flexible OPVs presented. 
另外有一篇文章 “Angle dependence of external and internal quantum 
efficiency” by G. Dennler, K. Forberich, M. C. Scharber, T. Ameri, C. 
Waldauf, P. Denk, C. J. Brabec, Konarka Austria (Austria)，很特別的是這
篇文章是討論 P3HT/PCBM 有機太陽能電池之斜向入射時外部與內部
量子效率的變化。文章之摘要如下； 
     The realization of highly efficient organic solar cells requires the 
understanding and the optimization of the light path in the photoactive layer. 
We present in this contribution our approach to measure and model the 
optical properties of our bulk-heterojunction devices, and to control them in 
order to enhance the photovoltaic performances. We report our recent 
observations on the dependence of the External Quantum Effi ciency (EQE) 
on the incidence angle of the light, and our results on the determination of 
Internal Quantum Effi ciency (IQE) based on EQE measurement and 
optical modeling cross-checked by reflection measurements. We investigate 
poly (3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT): 1-(3-methoxycarbonyl) 
propyl-1-phenyl[6,6]C61 (PCBM) based solar cells with two different 
thicknesses of the active layer (170 nm and 880 nm), and show that in the 
thin ones the absorption is enhanced for oblique incident radiation. 
此外，在 Photonics for Solar Energy Systems＂子會議當中，有相當多
的文章是在討論利用微米或奈米結構來解決 silicon based solar cell的表
面高反射問題或增加 solar cell 的 light trapping。這是由於太陽能電池之
量子轉換效率常會因為材料本身吸收特性、表面反射、介質的不匹配
及金屬電極的吸收而大幅降低，因此研製最佳化奈米結構以增加光能
的利用率是提高太陽能電池之量子效率的非常重要之議題。傳統太陽
能電池若欲製作表面絨化的抗反射層結構，往往利用強鹼（如氫氧化
鈉或氫氧化鉀）來蝕刻矽的表面，由於強鹼對於矽的蝕刻具有特定的
晶面選擇性，因此可以蝕刻出前述的金字塔結構以降低反射率，提昇
太陽能電池的轉換效率。但是用強鹼作為濕式蝕刻的作法往往只能讓
矽的反射率降低到 1~2%，無法更低的原因通常是來自於金字塔的尺度
已經大過於次波長結構，或是金字塔間的距離過大，以致於裸露出平
坦的矽表面，這些因素都會使得反射率無法如預期般降低。 
發現，在太陽能電池技術中，尤其是有機等以先進材料為基礎的新穎
太陽能電池技術的發展，必須結合各種不同領域的專家方能成功，例
如原材料、固態電子技術及光電與元件技術的人才，讓技術能充分的
交流，方能有較大的成功機會。Photonics Europe 的研討會特色是比較
有跨領域的研究成果呈現，作者在此次的研討會就看到許多有創意的
研究成果。 
    由於此研討會具有相當的代表性及重要性，本次參加此研討會帶
回相關資訊，將可提供國內掌握光電與太陽能技術的最新走向，同時
藉由與會時各學界及業界的討論，希望可作為國內在制定研發方向時
之參考。 
 在本報告最後後所附的是這一次出國，作者本身發表論文的摘要，供
大家參考。 
been studied as another method for production of porous structures in multicrystalline 
silicon.[11]-[15] In this method, fine metal particles loaded on silicon wafers are used as 
catalysts for etching of silicon in aqueous solutions containing HF and oxidants such as 
H2O2 without the need of external electrical power. Because of the simplicity of this 
method compared to the common techniques described above, the method is promising 
for application to mass production if efficient control of the geometrical structure is 
achieved.  
 
Recently, Yae et al. reported the porous silicon as an antireflection layer of solar 
cells was fabricated by metal assisted chemical etching in a pure HF solution for 24 
hours.[11], [12] The size and particle density of the platinum particles loaded on silicon 
wafers by electroless displacement deposition were 20-240 nm in diameter and about 
only 10 particles µm-2. This method successfully reduced the reflectance of the silicon 
wafer to 6%. However, the optimization of antireflective structures was difficult due to 
the limitation of electroless displacement deposition. Moreover, etching by pure HF 
solution makes the reaction time too long for massive industry application. Here, we 
report the optimization of the porous textured structures on silicon wafers using 
presynthesized Au nanoparticles as catalysts in HF/H2O2 solution. We also control the 
density of Au nanoparticles by varied deposition time of that and etching conditions to 
obtain minima reflection.  
 
was enhanced with higher annealing temperature. This means that the increase of QPV 
efficiency was caused by the increase of P3HT crystallinity. However, effects on 
material optical constants by annealing are lack of study.  
 In this paper, we introduce the annealing effect on the P3HT:PCBM with 
examination of its refractive index (n) and extinction coefficient (k). With different 
annealing temperature, the organic thin film property such as crystallization and optic 
constants varies. From the optical perspective, the energy absorbed from 
electromagnetic wave influence the solar cell performance. The importance of optical 
interference for organic photovoltaic devices has been discussed in previous studies 
[17-24]. With further study, activation of electromagnetic wave in the device such as 
interference and interface reflection can be simulated and calculated correctly by the 
optical constants of etch filmsr we obtained. Based on these optical properties, 
modulating the device parameters for higher performance can be done. Optimization 
parameter such as each layer thickness of the device and the organic layer crystallization 
increase the light power absorption [22,25]. Since then, adjusting the refractive index of 
the active layer near to neighboring layer such as PEDOT reduces the interface 
reflection (active layer/ PEDOT) resulting in higher external quantum efficiency (EQE). 
Since the enhancement in optical absorption was not sufficient to explain this 
unproportional increase of the solar cell efficiency [26], the detailed study of the active 
layer must be examined. Only charges dissociated in the active layer being collected by 
electrodes can contribute to the solar cell efficiency. The recombination in the bulk 
active layer limits the power conversion rate [27]. Therefore, investigation of electric 
field distribution at the interfaces of the organic thin film directly indicates the efficient 
absorption of electromagnetic wave. Therefore, we introduced the correlation between 
annealing temperature to effective absorption. 
    International Microprocesses and Nanotechnology Conference 為奈米
科技與微米製程領域的重要會議，每年十至十一月於日本舉辦，世界
各地許多著名的奈米科技相關廠商及學術研究機構皆會在此會議發表
其最新研究論文，展現其研究技術與學術水準，並且與各國專家作交
流。今年第 20 屆 MNC 在日本京都國際會議廳舉辦，此研討會主要探
討各種微影技術（photon beam, electron beam and ion beam）以及新興
的奈米微影技術。本年度 MNC 篩選出 225 篇相關上述議題的研究論
文，眾所周知當積體電路的製造線寬越趨微細化時，奈米製造技術面
臨新的挑戰。許多的奈米製造技術都將在這個會議作廣泛探討，故有
必要出席此一會議，以獲得更多的資訊及技術發展趨勢，並帶回國內，
以供國內學術界及產業界參考並討論。 
 
    2007 年本實驗室經過審查通過，在 Last News Section 口頭發表此
研究：” Fabrication of gold-nanoparticle-infiltrated inverse opal structures 
with both photonic bandgap and surface plasmon resonance 
characteristics,” 作者並代表本實驗是前往日本東京參加第 20 屆
International Microprocesses and Nanotechnology Conference，除了直接
上台報告相關實驗，也與各界專家做技術及學術性的交流。本年度的
主席為 Dr. Hiroshi Arimoto，以下為本次會議的 scope 及主要 Topic： 
 
Symp. B: Nanomechanical systems for Nanotechnology 
Symp. C: Nanoimprint Technology 
 
二、出國日程 
  從當地時間 11 月 05 日開始即是 MNC2007 研討會議程正式展
開的時間，這段期間作者每天早上 7:30 即步行前往會場參加研討會。
研討會論文發表通常舉行至下午 6：00 左右，作者再步行或搭乘 bus
返回旅館。11 月 8 日下午為作者口頭發表的時間，上午 7:30 步行抵達
會場，除與各國專家討論技術的問題，也答覆觀眾對筆者研究的問題
與建議，20:00 由會場回到旅館。 
 四天會議結束後前往機場飛回台灣，結束此次的開會行程。 
 
三、研討會內容及重點 
    這次前往日本參加一年一度 MNC 研討會，除了收集到最新的微奈
米製程外，亦瞭解到所需的製程評估技術。尤其在與國外專家的交流
中，獲得微影製程技術研發的重要性。由於量產所需的技術，必須以
良率做為主要的參考指標。因此往往需要投入相當的研發人力及經
費，並涵蓋各個領域的專長，方能成功。基於上述原因，結合先進微
影技術、阻劑技術及光學微影技術的人才，讓技術能充分的交流。MNC
的研討會特色是比較偏重於學術界的研究，作者在此次的研討會就看
 
（圖一）利用 UV-curable nanoimprint lithography 所製作的 50nm grating。 
    目前，世界各國研究者在奈米壓印技術的拓展方面，除了不斷朝
向降低最小線寬外，另一重要的著眼點就是發展有著均勻且大面積的
壓印技術。由 S. H. Hong 等人在本會議所發表的”Sub-50nm featured 
polymer stamp fabrication for UV nanoimprint lithography,” 利用 PVC 高
分子當做模版，能夠大面積（八吋大小）的壓印出 sub-50nm 的奈米圖
形。（圖二） 
 
（圖二）利用 Polymer 模板所製作的 8 吋大面積 UV nanoimprint lithography。 
100nm 
６Ａ－４－１１２ 
 
 
Ｆｉｇ２， Ｆｉ
ｇ３ 
  轉印金屬粒子的研究結果則被 Y. Kuwahara 等人發表，標題
為：”Fabrication of nano-patterns composed by metal nanoparticles with 
photo-nanoimprint,” 利用轉印的方式能夠在已旋塗 photocurable 
polymer 的基板上做直接轉印技術，作者利用自組裝的方式將金屬奈米
粒子堆疊至模板內，再將金屬粒子轉印到基板上（圖四），這樣的方式
可以完成擇區的金屬粒子圖案。 
 
（圖四）利用奈米轉印技術轉印金屬粒子的電子顯微鏡圖。 
  相關於類似著轉印技術還有由 Y. C. Lee 等人所發表的金屬轉印技
術 : “A Novel contact imprinting lithography for nano-patterning and 
nano-fabricaiton,” 主要將各種圖形的金屬轉印在基板上後，因為金屬與
矽基板的不同蝕刻比，將有金屬圖案的矽晶圓利用蝕刻的方式，能夠
在基板上做出各種高深寬比的微奈米圖形。 
6A-4-112 
四、心得及建議 
    由於此研討會具有相當的代表性及重要性，本次參加此研討會帶
回相關資訊，將可提供國內掌握奈米製程技術的最新走向，同時藉由
與會時各學界及業界的討論，希望可作為國內在制定研發方向時之參
考。 在本報告最後後所附的是這一次出國，作者本身發表論文的摘要，
供大家參考。 
(d) (a) (b) (c)
NH3+ 
NH3+ 
NH3+ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.1  A schematic diagram of fabricating gold-nanoparticles-infiltrated inverse opals (a) using polystyrene 
and silica solution to fabricate a hybrid opal sturcture, (b) annealing and sintering processes to form an 
inverse opal structure (c)adding APTMS in the inverse opal structure, (d) infiltrating gold nanoparticles. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2  Transmittance spectra of binary opal structure for different concentration of SiO2 spheres. 
   
(a)                                           (b) 
Fig. 3  SEM images of gold-nanoparticles-infiltrated inverse opals (a) top view (b)cross section view. 
 
 
1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000
35
40
45
50
55
60
Tr
an
sm
itt
an
ce
 (%
)
wavelength (nm)
 No SiO2
 10ul SiO2
 20ul SiO2
 30ul SiO2
 40ul SiO2
 50ul SiO2
參加 MNE 2007 研討會報告 
 
報告人 萬德輝 計畫編號 95-2221-E-002-324-MY2
職 稱 博士生 系 所台灣大學材料科學與工
程學系 
開會時
間 
96 年 9 月 23 日至 9 月 26 日 地 點 Denmark, Copenhagen
名 稱 33rd International Conference 
on Micro- and 
Nano-Engineering 
主辦單位  MIC, Technical 
University of Denmark, 
DK and Lund 
University, SE 
 
內容： 
 
一、學術地位與重要性 
二、出國日程 
三、研討會內容及重點 
四、心得及建議 
 
 
2007 年 12 月 
 
 
 
 
 
文。作者並代表本實驗室前往丹麥 Copenhagen 參加第 32 屆 International 
Conference on Micro- and Nano-Engineering 會議，與各界專家做技術及學
術性的交流。 
本年度的主席為 Anja Boisen, Anders Kristensen, Lars Montelius, 
Fredrik Höök and Maria Nordström 先生。本次研討會共有 100 篇口頭發表
文章，及 300 篇壁報文章被接受。以下為本次會議的 scope 及主要 topic： 
Micro- and Nano-Engineering (MNE) is an international conference on 
micro- and nanofabrication using lithography and related techniques. The 
conference brings together engineers and scientists from all over the world to 
discuss recent progress and future trends in the fabrication and applications of 
micro- and nanostructures. On average the MNE conference has 400-500 
participants. The conference proceedings are published in Microelectronic 
Engineering. 
Of the 458 contributed abstracts, 402 have been accepted for 97 oral and 
296 poster presentations. The oral presentations are organised in three parallel 
sessions. There is one poster session on Monday evening, and the posters will 
be on display throughout the conference to facilitate further scientific 
discussions during the conference. In addition, the program includes seven 
plenary presentations and 19 invited speakers. In total, 393 papers will be 
presented at MNE 2007. 
This year 458 abstracts were submitted from 34 countries, including 26 
invited presentations. The technical program is organised in 13 topics:  
Photon Lithography  
Novel fabrication methods, limits of miniaturization, self-assembling and 
self-organising systems, scanning probe techniques, nanomechanics, 
nanofluidics, measurements/characterization, modeling at the nanoscale.  
Nanodevices  
Nanoelectronics, nanomechanical devices, nanooptics/nanophotonics, 
nanomagnetics, data storage, carbon nanotube devices, molecular devices, 
characterization and applications.  
Micro- & nano-systems for Biology  
Bio-MEMS, lab-on-a-chip, bio(medical)devices, micro total-analysis 
systems, micro-and nanofluidic biodevices.  
Process Diagnostics & Control  
Inspection, testing, modification, metrology and in-situ measurements of 
processes, devices and circuits.  
 
二、出國日程 
  從當地時間 9 月 23 日開始即是 MNE 研討會議程正式展開的時
間，這段期間作者每天早上 7:30 即步行前往會場參加研討會。研討會論
文發表通常舉行至下午 6：00 左右，作者再步行或搭乘 bus 返回旅館。9
月 23 日即是作者 oral paper 發表的時間，上午 7:30 步行抵達會場，除與
各國專家討論技術的問題，也答覆讀者對筆者論文的意見，20:00 由會場
回到旅館。 
 四天會議結束後前往哥本哈根國際機場，經曼谷飛回台灣，結束此次
的開會行程。 
 
第二篇文章則是” Sub-micron sized patterning on flexible PET substrate 
using flexible DLC coated PVC template”，奈米壓印技術應用在製作奈米微
結構的元件已經是一個相當普遍的技術，不但能夠應用在可撓曲的基板
上，亦能應用在非平面的基板上。其中最受矚目的則是具有高可塑性及在
紫外光區高穿透的聚氯乙烯(PVC)。因此在本文中，作者即利用 PVC 所
製作的模板，結合奈米壓印及蝕刻技術，在可撓曲的 ITO 導電基板上製
作奈米微結構。圖一為一六吋的 PVC 模板，其上已用具奈米結構的石英
模板在低溫低壓下壓印上去的圖形，而為了增加 PVC 模板的硬度及減低
其附著力，並在其上用 CVD 的方式長上一層 Diamond like carbon (DLC)，
接著在可撓曲的 ITO 基板上塗佈一層光阻，即可將 PVC 模板與其結合，
在 20 bar 的壓力及紫外光的照射下，則可成功的得到具圖形的光阻遮罩，
最後輔以乾蝕刻，則可得到具奈米結構的 ITO 基板，如圖二。 
  
圖一 具奈米結構的PVC模板 圖二 具奈米結構的可撓曲ITO基板 
插圖為奈米結構的俯視圖 (a) 俯視圖，(b) 側視圖 
在 Microsystems & Their Fabrication 方面有一篇論文特別值得關注：” 
Antireflective nanostructured microlenses”，在常用的光學元件中，refractive 
microlens arrays (MLA) 跟次波長週期性結構兩種技術都是廣為被應用。
而在本文中，作者即巧妙的結合上述兩種技術來製作可見光區的抗反射層
結構。MLA 可以輕易的在二氧化矽基板上利用 re-flow process 所製備，
可得到佈滿整個基板由光阻所組成的 MLA。接著塗佈上第二層光阻，第
三步驟則是利用 Kr-laser 干涉的技術，然後曝光顯影，即可在下層的 MLA
表面製作次波長結構，見圖一。圖二即可清楚看見大面積並且均勻的製作
出具有次波長結構的 MLA。 
     
圖一 具次波長表面的 MLA 圖二 具次波長表面的MLA的俯視圖 
製作示意圖 
Tunable surface plasmon resonance wavelength of gold nanoparticles embedded in 
lead zirconate titanate (PZT) films with an applying external electric field 
 
K. C. Hsieh, H. L. Chen*, and D. H. Wan 
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
Taiwan 
Tel: 886-2-33663240, Fax: 886-2-23634562, *E-mail: hsuenlichen@ntu.edu.tw 
 
Nanocomposite metal–dielectric systems have been considered for their interesting 
color effects, adjustable electrical conductivity, and magnetic properties. The surface 
plasma resonance (SPR) phenomenon and the quantum size effect of metal nanoparticles 
have attracted much attention. In this paper, metal nanoparticles are embedded in lead 
zirconate titanate (PZT) films. Ferroelectric films have high dielectric constants, which 
could strongly influence the local fields around the metal particles. Furthermore the 
dielectric constants of ferroelectric films can be easily tuned by an applying external 
electric field. 
A solution of Au3+ ions are added into the metal organic decomposition (MOD) 
precursor of PZT, and Au particles could be formed due to the decomposition of AuCl4- 
dodecylamine complexes at high temperature. Figure 1 shows the SEM images of Au/PZT 
composite films with different annealingtemperatures. The organic solvent is evaporated 
from composite films at 120℃ and Au/PZT composite films are not formed perovskite 
structure. The gold particles can be observed on the PZT matrix surface in Figure 1(a). As 
shown in Figure 2(a), the composite films are analyzed by TEM, and the gold does not 
exist in PZT matrix. Because of the matrix of PZT is amorphous phase, and the gold 
particles shall be precipitated at low free energy positions of surface. As annealing at 450℃ 
and 650℃ (shown in Figure 1(b) and 1(c)), the surface of composite films is smooth and 
there are not precipitations on the composite films. Moreover, the composite films are 
formed perovskite structure at high temperature then the gold diffuse into PZT grain 
boundaries to reduce free energy. Therefore, the SEM image cannot be observed gold 
nanoparticles on the surface of composite films. The gold nanoparticles are embedded in 
the PZT matrix and can be observed in the TEM images (Figure 2(b) and 2 (c)). Figure 3 
shows the absorption spectra of nanocomposite films with HAuCl4 contents at different 
annealing temperature. With increasing annealing temperature, the SPR absorption is 
red-shift from 552 to 618 nm and it can be explained the increase of particles size and the 
dielectric constant of matrix. Figure 4 shows the absorption spectra of nanocomposite films 
with HAuCl4 under diffeent external electric field. Table 1 indicates the detailed sites with 
different situation. As applying 2V external voltage, the SPR absorption peak is slight shift 
from 618 to 620 nm. If we increase the external voltage to 10V, the SPR absorption peak is 
Fabrication of three dimensional metal films with extraordinary transmission by 
reversal imprint lithography 
 
S. Y. Chuang1, H. L. Chen1*, S. S. Kuo1, and C. H. Lin2 
1Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
Taiwan 
2National Nano Device Lab., Hsinchu, Taiwan 
Tel: 886-2-33663240, Fax: 886-2-23634562, 
 *E-mail: hsuenlichen@ntu.edu.tw 
 
Reversal imprint lithography is a useful method of nanofabrication process for 
patterning polymer films with various shapes. As shown in Figure 1(a), a polymer film is 
not coated on the substrate but onto the patterned mold covered with surfactant. After 
imprinting under appropriate temperature and pressure, the polymer is transferred to the 
substrate from mold. Here we report a new reversal imprinting method, instead of 
transferring a polymer film, we transfer a metallic film covered on a three dimension mold 
to a substrate. As shown in Figure1 (b), a metallic film is evaporated onto the surfactant 
coated mold, and then the mold imprint into a polymer film coated substrate. After the 
imprint process, a metallic film will be stayed on the polymer film and release from mold 
because of the surface energy differences between mold/metal and metal/polymer. In 
particular, this method can obtain hole-array metallic pattern or continuous metallic film by 
controlling imprint pressure and temperature. As shown in Figure 1 (c), the mold is not 
fully inserted into the polymer film under lower pressure and temperature. Namely, we can 
obtain a metallic hole-array by the partial transferring in the part of metallic film.  
The silicon mold with different shapes used in our experiments was fabricated by 
using electron beam lithography followed by the anisotropic reactive ion etching process. 
The bias and RF power of RIE are the critical parameters for controlling the mould profile. 
As shown in Figure 2 (a), (b) and (c), the hexagonal hole-array, two-dimensional grid, and 
pillar-array molds can be fabricated by optimization the etching processes. The inverse 
imprint results are shown in Figure 2 (d), (e), and (f), three dimensional metal films with 
inverse shape of molds are patterned with large-area. 
Directly Patterning and Annealing Processes for the Formation of Patterned Nickel 
Silicide Structures by utilizing KrF Excimer Laser and Phase Mask 
 
H. L. Chen1*, C. Y. Lee1, Y. P. Chen2, L. A. Wang2, G. S. Lai3, P. K.Yang1 
1Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
Taiwan 
2 Institute of Electro-Optical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
3 Institute of Electronics Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
Tel: 886-2-33663240, Fax: 886-2-23634562, *E-mail: hsuenlichen@ntu.edu.tw 
 
In the recent International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors, the ArF 
lithography combining with resolution enhancement and immersion technologies has great 
potential to lead CMOS technologies to the generation of sub-45 nm. As CMOS device 
down to the generation of sub-45 nm, high quality of silicides and reliable silicide 
formation processes are desired to reduce the contact resistance. Among various silicides, 
nickel silicide is considered to be one of the vital candidates for advanced device structures. 
Nickel silicide has low reaction temperature for silicide formation, low silicon consumption 
and small sheet resistance Laser annealing is an attractive way to form various silicides for 
their short process duration, less thermal budget issues, and locally heating property. 
Furthermore laser annealing has a potential to selectively anneal silicides in a certain 
region.  
In the paper, we demonstrate a novel method, which can pattern and form nickel 
silicides at the same time. As shown in Figure 1, by utilize KrF excimer laser combing with 
phase mask, a periodical nickel silicide film with sinusoidal profile can be form on a silicon 
substrate. A phase mask is a fused silica plate with a special design phase grating that can 
suppress zero order transmission light and two-beam interference can be performed by +1, 
and -1 orders diffraction light. Because the interference occurs at the near field regime, a 
phase mask can overcome the temporal coherence issue of a KrF excimer laser. A nickel 
film was firstly deposited on an amorphous silicon film, and then the sample was exposed 
by KrF excimer laser with a phase mask. Finally the residual nickel film was removed by 
the H2SO4 /H2O2 solution. Figure 2 (a), (b), and (c) show the AFM and SEM images of 
the patterned nickel silicide film. Result indicates the patterned nickel silicide film with the 
line width of 200 nm, the period of 500 nm, and the height of 40 nm. The dimension of 
patterned nickel silicide is consistent with the prediction by the specification of phase mask 
and the thickness of nickel film. 
Reduction of Polarization and Swing Effects in High Numerical Aperture 
Exposure Systems by utilizing Resist Antireflective Coatings 
 
H. L. Chen1*, Wonder Fan2, C. H. Lin2, S. Y. Chuang1 
1Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
2National Nano Device Lab., Hsinchu, Taiwan 
Tel: 886-2-33663240, Fax: 886-2-23634562, *E-mail: hsuenlichen@ntu.edu.tw 
 
In the recent International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors, a high-NA ArF 
exposure system combining with resolution enhancement technologies has great potential 
to lead IC technologies to the generation of sub-50 nm. As shown in Fig.1, TM-polarized 
light results in reduced contrast near Brewster’s angle, since the electric field vectors are 
not parallel and cannot completely interfere. Fig. 2 shows that the reflection of TE and TM 
polarization at air/resist interface is dependent on the incident angle. It indicates that the 
fractional weighting of TM-polarization light is weighed more substantially than the 
TE-polarization light in the resist as the NA increases. Moreover, the efficiency of the 
conventional single-layer bottom antireflection coatings (BARC) structure will degrade as 
the incident angle increased. It is due to the reflectance at resist / BARC interface increases 
in the large incident-angle regime. Therefore, some solutions to polarization and swing 
effects within resist for high-NA system are descried.  
Previous study shows to reduce the polarization effect by changing the refractive 
index of resists. Here we proposed a single-layer top antireflective coating (TARC) layer 
instead of developing new resist to reduce the polarization effect. According to thin-film 
theory, we designed some optimum TARC structure for NA=0.5 and NA=0.85. The 
fractional polarization weightings within the resist are shown in Fig. 3. Result indicates that 
by adding a TARC designed for NA=0.85 the fraction of TE / TM light in the resist can be 
remained about 49.8% / 50.2% as the incident angle from 0 to 58.5 degrees (NA=0.85). As 
shown in Fig. 4, we analysed that thickness tolerance of TARC for resists with different 
refractive indices. Result indicates that the thickness tolerance less than 20% is acceptable 
for various resists. Silicon oxynitride-based single and multilayer BARC structures were 
added to reduce the reflectance between a silicon substrate and a resist interface. The 
reflectance at normal incidence can be reduced to 0.5% using a single-layer or multilayer 
structure. 
