storage weight percentage and less desorption of 
hydrogen molecules (caused by the temperature growth) 
on their outer surfaces, as compared with those of 
the reference CNT. The hydrogen molecules inside the 
CNCs and the reference CNT, however, were noted to 
have similar desorption behaviors owing to the 
confinement effects from the structures of the 
nanomaterials. Results of this study might provide 
some information about hydrogen storage capacity of 
the single-walled open-tip CNC, which is beneficial 
to the potential applications of the CNC. 
英文關鍵詞： Physisorption, Desorption, Cone geometry effect, 
Confinement effect 
 
I  
ABSTRACT 
In this research project, hydrogen adsorption behaviors of single-walled carbon nanocones 
(CNCs) at temperatures of 77 and 300 K were investigated by the molecular dynamics 
simulations. The CNCs analyzed have apex angles of 19.2° and have tip truncated (i.e., the 
open-tip CNC). In the molecular dynamics simulations, the Morse potential was utilized to model 
the bonding interactions of hydrogen atoms in the hydrogen molecule. The Lennard-Jones 
potential with the curvature-modified potential parameters for the studies of carbon nanotubes 
(CNTs) was utilized to describe the nonbonding interactions of the simulation systems. For ease 
of discussion, the hydrogen adsorption behaviors of the CNC were compared with those for a 
reference CNT, which has a diameter equal to the average diameter of the CNC. From results of 
this study, it was noticed that physisorption of hydrogen molecules could be observed from the 
distribution pattern of the hydrogen molecules adsorbed on the CNCs. Because of the cone 
geometry effect, the open-tip CNCs could have larger storage weight percentage and less 
desorption of hydrogen molecules (caused by the temperature growth) on their outer surfaces, as 
compared with those of the reference CNT. The hydrogen molecules inside the CNCs and the 
reference CNT, however, were noted to have similar desorption behaviors owing to the 
confinement effects from the structures of the nanomaterials. Results of this study might provide 
some information about hydrogen storage capacity of the single-walled open-tip CNC, which is 
beneficial to the potential applications of the CNC. 
 
Keywords: Physisorption, Desorption, Cone geometry effect, Confinement effect 
摘要 
本研究計畫以分子動力學研究錐角為 19.2°之單壁開口奈米碳錐於溫度為 77 與 300 K
條件下之氫氣吸附行為。在分子動力學模擬中，本研究以 Morse 勢能來描述氫分子內之鍵
結作用力，而以 Lennard-Jones 勢能來模擬描述氫原子間以及氫原子與碳原子間之非鍵結作
用力。其中 Lennard-Jones 勢能參數的選用是以用於研究奈米碳管儲氫性能之曲率修正後的
Lennard-Jones 勢能參數來處理。為了便於討論，研究中亦以一個直徑等於此奈米碳錐之平
均直徑的單壁奈米碳管來作為參考對象，以比較此兩種奈米材料之氫氣吸附行為。由本研
究之成果可知，奈米碳錐對於氫分子的物理吸附特性，可由氫分子之分布形貌而明顯看出。
由於奈米碳錐之錐體幾何效應，使其相較於參考奈米碳管而言，有較高的儲氫重量百分比，
且在其外表面有較小之（因溫度升高所引起的）氫氣解吸現象。然而由於此奈米材料之結
構體所提供之侷限效應，使得在奈米碳錐內之氫氣解吸現象與奈米碳管內之氫氣解吸現象
相差不大。本研究之結果可提供單壁奈米碳錐在儲氫性能方面的資訊，以作為奈米碳錐材
料應用與開發之參考。 
 
關鍵詞：物理吸附，解吸現象，錐體幾何效應，侷限效應 
1  
1. Introduction  
Since the discovery of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) by Iijima in 1991 [1], owing to their 
extraordinary properties, researchers have taken much interest in exploring the immature feature 
and potential applications of CNTs and also those of the related carbon nanomaterials. Carbon 
nanocones (CNCs) are one of such nanomaterials. Because CNCs have structures similar to those 
of the CNTs and have properties much like CNTs, they have attracted much attention in recent 
years. 
Regarding the finding of CNCs, Ge and Sattler [2] first predicted that there have five possible 
types of CNCs with different apex angles. Krishnan et al. [3] verified the existence of the five 
types of CNCs by experimental methods and gave the apex angles as 19.2°, 38.9°, 60°, 84.6°, and 
112.9°, respectively. The five CNCs have, respectively, five pentagons (for 19.2°) down to one 
pentagon (for 112.9°) at their tips. The structure and morphology of the five CNCs were 
examined recently by Naess et al. [4] with the aid of transmission electron microscopy, 
synchrotron X-ray and electron diffraction. Moreover, analogous to CNTs, the CNC can also be 
categorized as single-walled and multi-walled CNCs according to the number of layers 
comprising the nanocones [5-7]. Among the five types of CNCs, Iijima et al. [5] observed that the 
one with apex angle of 19.2° can be found as caps on the ends of carbon tubules and named these 
materials as single-walled carbon nanohorns (CNHs). Their structures, production, properties, 
and applications of CNHs were investigated by Yudasaka et al. [8]. It was also revealed that, with 
proper control of the synthetic conditions, CNCs with their tips truncated (i.e., open-tip CNCs) 
can be synthesized [9, 10]. The open-tip CNCs were demonstrated to have similar structures and 
the same apex angles as the untruncated CNCs [11]. On fabrication of CNCs, with the assistance 
of plasma, mass growth of sharp tip and flat tip CNCs arrays can be achieved [12]. 
With regard to application of CNCs in hydrogen storage, it was revealed that CNHs have 
strong interactions with hydrogen than those of CNTs owing to the effects of confining molecular 
hydrogen within CNHs [13]. Hence CNCs and CNHs are considered as promising materials for 
hydrogen storage and have been paid considerable attention in recent years. In contrast to the 
plentiful studies on hydrogen storage of CNTs, to the author’s knowledge, there are not many 
related research works for CNCs in the available literature. For example, Murata et al. [14] 
investigated adsorption mechanism of supercritical hydrogen in internal and interstitial 
nanospaces of single-wall carbon nanohorn assembly. They found that the adsorption density of 
hydrogen in interstitial spaces is lower than that in internal spaces because of the self-stabilization 
effect from the hydrogen cluster in the internal spaces. Xu et al. [15] measured hydrogen storage 
capacity of various carbon materials, including activated carbon (AC), CNHs, CNTs, and carbon 
nanofibers (CNFs). It was observed that hydrogen storage capacity of the carbon materials 
increased significantly when the temperature reduced to 77 K. Besides, Yu et al. [16] studied the 
hydrogen adsorption/desorption behavior of CNCs by thermal desorption and photoemission and 
revealed that the desorption temperature decreases with increasing hydrogen exposure. 
To enrich the applications of CNCs in hydrogen storage for promoting the use of clean energy, 
this research dealt with hydrogen adsorption behaviors of single-walled open-tip CNCs with an 
open-tip CNCs, the curvature-modified L-J parameters used in the investigation of CNTs [20, 21] 
were employed in this research. Table 2 lists the curvature-modified L-J parameters used in this 
research. Figure 1 plots the L-J potential functions corresponding to the L-J parameters (Table 2) 
for H-C nonbonding interactions of this study. 
With the potential functions and potential parameters described above, the MD simulations 
can be carried out for the simulation models at temperatures of 77 K (the liquid nitrogen 
temperature) and 300 K (the room temperature) to examine the hydrogen adsorption behaviors of 
the nanomaterials. The Nose-Hoover method [22, 23] was utilized as the thermostat during the 
simulations. Besides, the Verlet algorithm [24, 25] with a time step of 0.5 fs (0.5×10-15 s) was 
selected for the integration of the equations of motion. Before the simulations all the simulation 
models were structurally optimized to relax artificial constraints, which were introduced during 
the construction of the simulation models. Thereafter the MD simulations were executed to each 
simulation system for 50 ps. During the simulations, total energy of the system was monitored to 
ascertain that system equilibration has been achieved. Data in the last five picoseconds were 
averaged for investigating the hydrogen adsorption behaviors of the nanomaterials. Results of this 
study were discussed in the following section. 
3. Results and discussion 
Hydrogen adsorption behaviors of the single-walled open-tip CNCs (including the CNC1 and 
CNC2) with an apex angle of 19.2° were examined and compared with those of a reference 
(10,10) CNT. Geometry data for the CNCs and CNT are shown in Table1. The average diameter 
of the CNC is 13.6 Å, which is equal to the diameter of the CNT. In the beginning of the MD 
simulations, the nanomaterial (the CNC or CNT) was placed in the middle of a simulation cell 
with dimensions of 30×30×60 Å (the long dimension aligning with the nanomaterial axis). A total 
number of 600 hydrogen molecules were arranged with a regular and uniform manner in the top 
side and bottom side of the simulation cell (each side arranging 300 hydrogen molecules). Figure 
2 shows initial configurations (including the front and side views) of the simulation models for 
the nanomaterials CNT and CNC1. The initial arrangement of hydrogen molecules for the CNC2 
is in a similar manner. The structure for the CNC2 can be recognized in Figure 6. To avoid 
pre-adsorption, the molecules were positioned significantly away from the nanomaterial. Two 
temperature conditions (77 and 300 K) were considered in the MD simulations. During the 
simulations, periodic boundary conditions were applied in the three-dimensional directions of the 
simulation cell. 
Weight percentage of hydrogen molecules stored in the nanomaterial and average adsorption 
energy was utilized to examine the hydrogen storage capacity of the nanomaterial. The storage 
weight percentage was calculated by the expression 
)/(wt st-H2Cst-H2 WWW% += , (3) 
where WC is the weight of the nanomaterial and WH2-st is the weight of the hydrogen molecules 
stored in the nanomaterial. The stored hydrogen molecules consist of hydrogen molecules stored 
3  
5  
close to that in the existing study for a (9,9) CNT [26]. As the system temperature grows from 77 
to 300 K, most of the hydrogen molecules adsorbed/stored in the CNT moving away from the 
tube because of the increasing kinetic energy of the molecules gaining from the growing 
temperature. This indicates that some desorption of hydrogen molecules occurred as the 
temperature grew. The desorption of hydrogen molecules was more evident for the hydrogen 
molecules adsorbed on the outer surface of the CNT, as compared with those inside the CNT, as 
can be seen from the corresponding changes in Nout and Nin owing to the temperature growth 
(referring to Table 4). The aforementioned findings could also be observed from the 
configurations for the CNT (shown in Figure 4). The desorption of hydrogen molecules resulted 
in the large decreases in the storage weight percentage and in the average adsorption energy of 
the CNT at the higher temperature (300 K), as can also be seen from Table 4. 
3.2 Hydrogen adsorption of the open-tip CNC1 
Hydrogen adsorption of the open-tip CNC1 was examined next. Geometry data for the CNC1 
are shown in Table 1. The CNC1 has a top diameter and a bottom diameter equal to 6.8 and 20.4 
Å. These two diameters correspond to a (5,5) CNT and a (15,15) CNT, respectively. The average 
diameter of the CNC1 is 13.6 Å, which is equal to the diameter of a (10,10) CNT. Configurations 
at t = 50 ps for the CNC1 at the two temperatures are displayed in Figure 5. Because the CNC1 
does not have a uniform diameter along its cone axis, the concentric-ring distribution of hydrogen 
molecules occurring in the reference CNT owing to the physisorption did not appear in the 
configurations for the CNC1. However, the adsorbed hydrogen molecules were noticed to 
distribute along the surface of the CNC1 and formed straight lines parallel to the surface (as 
observed from the front view of the configuration), especially for the system at 77 K. 
Physisorption of the hydrogen molecules caused the distribution pattern. 
The hydrogen adsorption data for the CNC1 at the two temperatures are shown in Table 3. As 
the system temperature grows from 77 to 300 K, the storage weight percentage of the CNC1 
reduced from 8.4 to 5.8%. Some desorption of the hydrogen molecules occurring at the higher 
temperature, owing to the increase in kinetic energy of the molecules, caused the decrease in the 
storage weight percentage of the CNC1. Table 4 also lists changes in the hydrogen adsorption 
data owing to the temperature growth. It was noticed that the evident desorption of hydrogen 
molecules occurring on the outer surface of the reference CNT caused by the growth of 
temperature did not occur in the CNC1. This finding can be seen from the corresponding changes 
in Nout and Nin owing to the temperature growth (referring to Table 4). The cone geometry effect 
of the CNC1 would be responsible for the different adsorption/desorption behaviors between the 
two nanomaterials. To explain this cone geometry effect, it should be noted that the same L-J 
parameters were applied to both nanomaterials because the CNC1 has an average diameter 
identical to that of the reference CNT. However, the cone shape of the CNC1 (with varying radii 
along its cone axis as compared to the uniform radius of the CNT) could afford additional 
constraints (i.e., the escape barriers) to retard the hydrogen molecules escaping from the 
adsorption region once they were adsorbed on the outer surface of the CNC1. Therefore, as 
7  
explained by the definition of the average adsorption energy. Because the adsorbed hydrogen 
molecules have much higher potential energy than the hydrogen molecules in other regions do (as 
can be seen from Figure 1), the average adsorption energy defined in equation (4) is dominated 
by the number of hydrogen molecules adsorbed on the nanomaterial. The smaller number of 
hydrogen molecules adsorbed on the CNC2 owing to its lower cone height thus leaded to the 
quite lower average adsorption energy of the CNC2 at 77 K as compared with the reference CNT, 
although it has greater storage weight percentage (8.7%). 
Some findings discussed above could be comprehended from Figure 6, where distributions of 
the hydrogen molecules for the CNC2 at the end of the simulations are displayed. The 
straight-line pattern of the adsorbed hydrogen molecules can also be observed from the front view 
of the configurations. 
4. Conclusions 
Hydrogen adsorption behaviors of single-walled open-tip CNCs with apex angles of 19.2° at 
temperatures of 77 and 300 K were investigated in this study via the molecular dynamics 
simulations. Owing to lack of suitable potential parameters for studying this problem, the 
curvature-modified L-J parameters for the study of CNTs were employed in the present 
investigation to gain some information about hydrogen adsorption of the CNCs. Three 
nanomaterials (including CNT, CNC1, and CNC2) were analyzed to examine the hydrogen 
adsorption behaviors and influences of cone sharpness on the behaviors of the CNC. 
From results of this study, physisorption of the hydrogen molecules on the CNCs could be 
observed from the straight-line distribution of the adsorbed molecules along the surface of the 
CNCs (observed from the front view). Less desorption of hydrogen molecules caused by the 
temperature growth (from 77 to 300 K) was found on the outer surface of the CNCs, as compared 
with the reference CNT, because of the additional constraints (i.e., the escape barriers) provided 
by the cone geometry. On the other hand, with the growth of the temperature, the hydrogen 
molecules inside the CNCs and the CNT were noted to have similar desorption behaviors (despite 
their slight differences). Confinement effects offered from the structures of the nanomaterials 
would be responsible for the similar desorption behaviors of inner hydrogen molecules. It was 
also noticed that the open-tip CNC2 could have higher storage weight percentage than the 
reference CNT does because of the cone geometry effect. 
Because not plentiful studies about hydrogen adsorption of open-tip CNCs are available in the 
literature, the present results might provide some information about the hydrogen adsorption 
behaviors of the CNCs. These are beneficial to the potential applications of the CNCs. 
References 
1. S. Iijima, “Carbon nanotubes: past, present, and future,” Nature, 354, 56, 1991. 
2. M. Ge and K. Sattler, “Observation of fullerene cones,” Chem. Phys. Lett., 220, 192, 1994. 
9  
18. F. Huarte-Larranaga and M. Alberti, “A molecular dynamics study of the distribution of 
molecular hydrogen physisorbed on single walled carbon nanotubes,” Chem. Phys. Lett., 
445, 227, 2007. 
19. J. E. Lennard-Jones, “On the determination of molecular fields,” Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A, 106, 
463, 1924. 
20. M. K. Kostov, H. Cheng, A. C. Cooper, and G. P. Pez, “Influence of carbon curvature on 
molecular adsorption in carbon-based materials: a force field approach,” Phys. Rev. Lett., 
89,146105, 2002. 
21. H. Cheng, A. C. Cooper, G. P. Pez, M. K. Kostov, P. Piotrowski, and S. J. Stuart, “Molecular 
dynamics simulations on the effects of diameter and chirality on hydrogen adsorption in 
single walled carbon nanotubes,” J. Phys. Chem. B, 109, 3780, 2005. 
22. S. Nose, “A unified formulation of the constant temperature molecular dynamics methods,” 
J. Chem. Phys., 81, 511, 1984. 
23. W. G. Hoover, “Canonical dynamics: equilibrium phase-space distribution,” Phys. Rev. A, 
31, 1695, 1985. 
24. J. M. Haile, Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Wiley–Interscience: New York, 1992. 
25. D. C. Rapaport, The Art of Molecular Dynamics Simulations; Cambridge University Press: 
Cambridge, UK, 2004. 
26. A. Zolfaghari, F. Hashemi, P. Pourhossein, and H. Z. Jooya, “Molecular dynamics 
simulations on the effect of temperature and loading in H2 exohedral adsorption on (3, 3) 
and (9, 9) SWCNTs,” Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 32, 4889, 2007. 
27. H. Dodziuk and G. Dolgonos, “Molecular modeling study of hydrogen storage in carbon 
nanotubes,” Chem. Phys. Lett., 356, 79, 2002. 
 
Table 1. Geometry data for the simulation models of this study. 
 
Top 
diameter 
(Å) 
Bottom 
diameter 
(Å) 
Average 
diameter 
(Å) 
Height (Å)
Number of 
carbon 
atoms 
CNTa 13.6 13.6 13.6 38.1 640 
CNC 9.5 17.7 13.6 22.4 380 
aThe (10,10) CNT, having diameter of 13.6 Å, was used in this study. 
 
Table 2. The Lennard-Jones potential parameters used in this study. 
  ε  (meV) σ  (Å) 
H-H 1.27 2.65 
H-C_sp2 2.24 2.78 
H-C_sp3 11.0 2.78 
H-C_CNCa 3.37 2.78 
aUsed the same parameters as for a (10,10) CNT. 
2 4 6 8
Distance (10-10 m)
10
-10
-5
0
5
10
L-
J 
po
te
nt
ia
l (
m
eV
)
H-C_sp2
H-C_10
H-C_8
H-C_sp3
 
Figure 1. The Lennard-Jones potential functions for H-C nonbonding interactions of this study. 
 
 
(a) CNT 
 
(b) CNC1 
Figure 2. Initial configurations (including the front and side views) of the simulation models for 
the nanomaterials: (a) CNT and (b) CNC1. 
 
11  
 13  
 
 
Figure 6. Configurations at t = 50 ps for the CNC2 at the two temperatures. 
(a) 77 K 
(b) 300 K 
1. 大會演講，講者：Prof. Anthony Leggett，講題：The Theory of Superconductivity: Ancient 
History and Modern Questions。 
2. 邀請演講：PL1至PL11。 
100 年 2 月 9 日： 
1. 大會演講，講者：Prof. Richard Friend，講題：Electronics with Organic Semiconductors。 
2. 邀請演講：PL13至PL22。 
3. 大會演講，講者：Prof. Richard Friend，講題：International Year of Chemistry Launch。 
100 年 2 月 10 日： 
1. 邀請演講：PL23至PL25。 
2. 分組研討會議。 
3. 大會晚宴。 
100 年 2 月 11 日： 
1. 大會演講，講者：Prof. Neil Ashcroft，講題：Putting the Squeeze on Materials; Pressing Towards 
New Orderings。 
2. 分組研討會議。 
3. 大會閉幕與頒獎（下午結束本屆會議）。 
個人於本次會議中發表了有關奈米硼氮管於軸向應變下之力學行為的研究論文（論文摘
錄於後）。此論文在本次研討會中是屬於奈米材料的主題，係研究奈米硼氮管於軸向應變下之
力學行為，並探討了溫度效應對於其力學特性的影響。於會議中報告時，獲得與會來賓們廣
泛的討論與迴響，尤其來賓們對於論文中所使用之方法、模擬模型之建立、以及研究之結果
等方面皆提出了許多頗具建設性的指教與寶貴的建議，對於個人而言，可謂獲益良多。 
二、與會心得 
個人得以有機會參加本次AMN-5國際學術研討會，得感謝行政院國家科學委員會專題研
究計畫之補助與支持，使個人能有機會與多位國際知名專家學者，在先進材料與奈米科技領
域上，交換研究心得與增廣見聞，受益良多。 
在本次研討會中個人獲益良多，尤其是在和專家學者們討論的過程中，各專家學者們所
提出之見解，對於個人在研究視野之拓展、對問題之解析與解決問題之方法等方面，可謂助
益良多，這是國內一般研討會上，所無法獲得之寶貴經驗，亦是個人參加本次研討會之最大
收穫。 
此外，大會亦安排了歡迎酒會及大會晚宴等活動，個人在活動中亦得以有機會和各國專
家學者在輕鬆的氣氛下交談，增進對於彼此國情與文化的了解，並對於提升台灣之學術地位
與國際知名度，稍盡綿薄之力。 
個人參加本次之會議，除了增廣見聞，吸取國際上在先進材料與奈米科技領域之最新研
究趨勢之外，對於個人在研究視野之拓展、研究問題之解析與解決上，獲益良多。這些對於
個人日後在研究問題的開發與研究能力的提升上都有極大的幫助，期望日後能常有機會參加
類似之國際學術研討會。 
 
大會演講 
 
 
分組研討 
 
 
晚宴實景 
 
2. On completion of your registration you will receive a confirmation email. 
Questions
If you have any questions please either email us at amn-5@confer.co.nz or call us at  
+64 4 384 1511. 
Kind regards, 
 
Michelle Kane 
Conference Manager  
On behalf of the Organising Committee 
 
 
八、 發表之論文（摘錄於後） 
 
Mechanical Behaviours of a Boron Nitride Nanotube under Axial Strains 
Ming-Liang Liao1, Shin-Pon Ju2 and Ting-Wei Lian2
1 Department of Aircraft Engineering, Air Force Institute of Technology, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, 
R.O.C. 
2 Department of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engineering, National Sun-Yat-Sen University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Keywords: failure strains, buckling strains, potential parameters, molecular dynamics simulations 
 
Abstract. Temperature effects on tensile and compressive behaviours of an (8,8) boron nitride 
nanotube (BNNT) were investigated via the molecular dynamics (MD) simulations with the Tersoff 
potential parameters determined by fitting the MD simulations results to those obtained from the 
density functional theory calculations. The force-matching method was employed in the fitting 
process. It was noticed that the failure strain of the BNNT decreases from 33.9% at temperature of 
50 K to 26.7% at temperature of 300 K and the critical buckling strain degrades from 5.46% to 
3.98%. No obvious yielding occurs before the tensile failure of the BNNTs. A chain-like tensile 
failure mode was observed prior to complete breaking of the BNNT. In addition, when the BNNT 
was loaded beyond the critical buckling strain it behaves a symmetrical buckling mode with a flat 
cross section near the middle of the BNNT. 
performed via the DMol3 program in the Materials Studio software [7]. 
After obtaining the potential parameters, MD simulations were carried out for an (8,8) BNNT to 
investigate temperature effects on tensile and compressive behaviours of the BNNT. The simulation 
model of the BNNT, as shown in Fig. 4, has a length of 48.4 Å and consists of 320 boron atoms (in 
gray) and 320 nitrogen atoms (in blue). In the simulations, NVT ensembles were selected and the 
system temperature was controlled by applying the Nosé Hoover thermostat algorithm [8, 9]. In 
addition, the velocity Verlet algorithm [8, 9] was employed for time integration of the equations of 
motion with a time step of 1 fs. The axial strain (tensile or compressive strains) was applied by 
moving the fixed ends (atoms at both ends within a length of two hexagonal atomic-rings) in 
opposite directions and at a speed of 3.3 m/ps until apparent failure (or buckling) was observed in 
the BNNT. Before proceeding to a new moving step, the simulations were lasted for 0.3 ps to 
achieve equilibrium of the whole system. Data at the equilibrium were sampled and averaged for 
investigation of the behaviours. 
 
Results and discussion 
Table 1 lists the potential parameters determined from the present fitting and those for bulk BN 
materials. As can be seen, the present potential parameters are slightly different from those for bulk 
BN materials. Potential energies of the (4,4), (6,6), (8,8), and (11,11) BNNTs calculated from the 
density functional theory (DFT), the present potential parameters (Present fitting), and those for 
bulk BN materials (Bulk) are displayed in Fig. 1. From the figure, good agreements between the 
present fitting results and those from the DFT can be seen. The potential parameters for bulk BN 
materials, however, offer much higher potential energy for all the cases studied. 
Fig. 2 shows the average strain energy and axial stress of the BNT under axial tensile strains at 
various temperatures. The failure strain decreases with growth in the system temperature. At T= 50, 
100, and 300 K the failure strains are 33.9%, 31.2%, and 26.7%, respectively. It was also noticed 
from the stress-strain curves that no obvious yielding occurs before the tensile failure of the BNNTs. 
Fig. 3 displays the average strain energy and axial stress of the BNNT under axial compressive 
strains at the three temperatures. The critical buckling strains for the BNNT at T= 50, 100, and 300 
K are 5.46%, 4.98%, and 3.98%, respectively. Degradation in the critical buckling strain due to 
increase in temperature is evident for the BNNT. 
Regarding deformation of the BNNT under axial strains, Fig. 4 depicts the deformation 
morphology of the BNT at T= 300 K under axial tensile strains and compressive strains. Prior to 
complete breaking of the BNNT, a chain-like tensile failure mode was observed at the tensile strain 
of 27.4%. Moreover, when the BNNT was loaded beyond the critical buckling strain (3.98%) it 
behaves a symmetrical buckling mode with a flat cross section near the middle of the BNNT to 
release the strain energy resulting from the applied load. 
 
Conclusions 
 
 
-10 -5 0 5 10
Strain (%)
-112
-108
-104
-100
-96
-92
-88
Po
te
nt
ia
l e
ne
rg
y 
(e
V
)
(4,4) BNNT
DFT Method
Present fitting
Bulk
 -10 -5 0 5 10Strain (%)
-168
-166
-164
-162
-160
Po
te
nt
ia
l e
ne
rg
y 
(e
V
)
(6,6) BNNT
DFT Method
Present fitting
Bulk
 -10 -5 0 5 10Strain (%)
-230
-220
-210
-200
-190
-180
Po
te
nt
ia
l e
ne
rg
y 
(e
V
)
(8,8) BNNT
DFT Method
Present fitting
Bulk
 -10 -5 0 5 10Strain (%)
-310
-300
-290
-280
-270
-260
Po
te
nt
ia
l e
ne
rg
y 
(e
V
)
(11,11) BNNT
DFT Method
Present fitting
Bulk
 
         (a)                  (b)                  (c)                  (d) 
Fig. 1  Potential energy calculated from the DFT, present fitting parameters, and parameters for 
bulk BN materials. 
 
 
0 10 20 30
Strain (%)
40
0
0.4
0.8
1.2
1.6
2
St
ra
in
 e
ne
rg
y 
(e
V
/a
to
m
)
50 K
100 K
300 K
        
0 10 20 30 40
0
1
2
3
4
St
re
ss
 (T
Pa
)
50 K
100 K
300 K
 Strain (%)
 (a)           (b) 
Fig. 2  Average strain energy and axial stress of the BNT under axial tensile strains at various 
temperatures. 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/23
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 開口奈米碳錐氫氣吸附性能之評估
計畫主持人: 廖明亮
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-344-003- 學門領域: 能源科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
研究成果已投稿於國際知名 SCI 學術期刊，期望能早日被接受刊登。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
