 1
一、中英文摘要 
中文摘要 
可否認的驗證協定必須滿足兩項特性。(1)可驗證性：只有指定的接收者能驗證已接收
資料之來源；以及(2)可否認性：此指定的接收者無法向第三者證明資料來源端的身分。為
了滿足可否認性，在過去學者所提出的可否認驗證協定中，接收者可以偽造傳送者傳來的
訊息；既然接收者可以自行偽造訊息，傳送者即可否認曾有傳送訊息的動作。雖然傳送者
可以否認資料是由他所送出，但當指定的接收者向別人聲稱收到的資訊並非由傳送者所給
予，傳送者也無法拿出證據證明接收者之陳述並非事實。為了證明資料的確實是由傳送者
所送出，於是我們提出具有傳送資料者保護機制的可否認的驗證協定。在這樣的協定當中，
雖然接收者仍然可以偽造訊息，但使用者有能力可以證明自己所傳過的訊息確實是自己傳
送的。為了在可否認驗證協定中，更進一步保護傳送者權益的目的，最好是讓傳送者在協
定中變成匿名的。於是，本計畫提出的可否認驗證協定的研究，另一項目標即是設計出可
以讓傳送者匿名的保護措施。 
 
英文摘要 
A deniable authentication protocol should satisfy the property that only the intended receiver 
authenticates the sender’s identity of received messages. This property is called authentication 
property.  On the other hand, the intended receiver cannot prove the sender’s identity to the third 
party.  This second property is called deniability property.  To satisfy deniability property, in 
the most of the proposed deniable authentication protocols, the intended receiver is able to forge 
the received message from the sender.  Since the received data is forgeable by the receiver, the 
sender easily denies that he/she sent the data.  Though the sent message is deniable for the 
sender, the sender still has no evidence to prove that he/she sent the message to prevent the 
receiver’s circumvention.  Therefore a new property, sender protection, is proposed for the 
deniable authentication protocol.  In a deniable authentication protocol with sender protection, 
although the sent message is still forgeable by the receiver, the sender can provide an evidence to 
prove that whether or not the message is really sent from him/her.  To protect senders more 
completely, it is better that the sender is anonymous in a deniable authentication protocol. 
Therefore, another goal of our project is to design a deniable authentication protocols with 
anonymous and protected sender. 
 
關鍵字: Non-interactive protocols, deniable authentication protocols, concurrent signatures, 
authentication, anonymous. 
 
二、前言與研究目的 
Deniable authentication protocols [2, 3] are used to prove the sender’s identity of the origin 
of some messages to an intended receiver.  However, the intended receiver cannot convince 
anyone that the sender has sent the message to the intended receiver.  Therefore, deniable 
authentication protocols must satisfy authentication and deniable properties between two entities 
over communicating channels. The authentication property means that only the intended receiver 
can find out the sender’s identity of the origin of a received message. The deniable property 
 3
a group (which means more than one identity) and there will be a threshold for generating the 
message to an intended receiver. 
In those proposed protocols, the sender can deny that he/she sent the message to receiver 
because both the sender and receiver have the same ability to generate the sent messages. 
However, the sender has no evidence to prove that he/she is the real sender to prevent receivers’ 
implication. Let us consider the situation that a company wants to buy some product with the 
lowest price. The company will ask the product’s providers the quotation. In this situation, the 
deniable authentication protocols are used to provide authenticated but deniable quotations for the 
company. However, the deniability is caused by forgeability of the receiver. The company can 
easily forge authenticated but deniable quotations while the providers cannot prevent this 
circumvention. To prevent receivers’ circumvention, the senders need some evidence to protect 
their benefits. Therefore, our new protocol with sender protection is first proposed based on 
concurrent signature schemes [6]. 
In the quotation situation, the providers do not want anyone know their identities to avoid 
unnecessary annoyance.  But, in the deniable authentication protocols, the sender’s identity is 
not protected anymore. That is everyone may know who the sender is. To protect the sender’s 
privacy, it is better that the sender’s identity is hidden from the other ones except the receiver. 
Therefore, our new protocol with anonymous sender protection is also proposed. 
 
三、文獻探討 
Review of Concurrent Signature Scheme iPCS1 
The scheme iPCS1 is consisted of fours algorithms SETUP, ASIGN, AVERIFY, and 
VERIFY, and one protocols. In the following, these algorithms are first given. 
－SETUP. The input of the SETUP algorithm is a security parameter l. On this security 
parameter, the SETUP algorithm first generates the public system parameters and public 
functions. The public system parameters are two large prime numbers p and q with q|(p-1), and 
an element g of order q in Zp. The public function is a collision-free hash function whose image is 
Zq*. The SETUP algorithm also generates the public key and private key for each user. The 
private key of the user i is a random number Xi∈Zq* and the public key of the user i is computed 
by Yi= gXi mod p. 
－ASIGN. The ASIGN algorithm is used to generate an ambiguous signature on some 
message mS. The input of ASIGN is (YS, YR, XS, eR, mS), where XS is the private key of sender S, 
YS is the public key of sender S, YR is the public key of receiver R, eR is an integer generated by 
the keystone generation algorithm h(k), k is a randomly chosen keystone. Then the output of 
ASIGN(YS, YR, XS, eR, mS) is an ambiguous signature σS= (fS, eS, eR). The concrete algorithm for 
ASIGN is given below. 
1. Select a random number rS∈Zq*. 
2. Evaluate fS= h(mS||grSYReR mod p). 
3. Compute eS = (rS – fS)XS-1 mod q. 
4. Output an ambiguous signature σS = (fS, eS, eR). 
－AVERIFY. Given an ambiguous-signature-message pair (σS,YS,YR, mS), the algorithm 
 5
 
Performance analysis 
The perform analysis between our protocol and Lee et al’s protocol [10] is given in Table 1. 
In the following, TE denotes the computational cost of single modular exponentiation and the TH 
denotes the executing time for one hash operation. Our protocol use multi-exponentiation, the 
multi-exponentiation computational costs for a1x1a2x2 and a1x1a2x2a3x3 are about 1.16TE and 1.25TE, 
respectively [1]. In our protocol, the major computational cost paid by the sender S is 
2TH+3.16TE in Step 2 and TH+2.25TE in Step 4 by the receiver R. In [10], the major 
computational cost paid by the sender is 2TH+2TE while the cost paid by the receiver is 
2TH+1.16TE. Evidently, the total computational cost of our protocol is less than the total cost of 
Lee et al.’s protocol [10]. The communication cost of Lee et al.’s protocol is |p|+|q|, and the 
communication cost of our protocol is |p|+3|q|. The additional communication cost of our 
protocol with anonymous sender protection is 2|q| bits. Fortunately, due to |p|>>|q|, the additional 
communication cost is cheap for the anonymous sender protection property. 
Table 1: Computation and Communication Cost Comparison of Lee et al’s and Our Protocols 
 Lee et al.’s protocol Our protocol 
Sender’s computation cost 2TH+2TE 3TH+3.16TE 
Receiver’s computation cost 2TH+1.16TE 2TH+2.25TE 
Total computation cost 4TH+3.16TE 5TH+5.41TE 
Communication cost |p| + |q| |p| +3|q| 
The security property comparison among our protocol and Lee et al’s protocol [10] is given 
in Table 2. Lee et al’s protocol [10] and our protocol conform to the basic properties of 
deniability and authentication for deniable authentication protocols. These protocols are all 
non-interactive. However, our protocol provides the sender protection for every session while Lee 
et al.’s protocol does not. Moreover, our protocol provides sender protection and the anonymity 
for the transmitted tuples. 
Table 2: Security Properties Comparison between Lee et al’s and Our Protocol 
 Lee et al.’s protocol Our protocol 
Deniability Yes Yes 
Authentication Yes Yes 
Non-interactive Yes Yes 
Sender protection No Yes 
Anonymity No Yes 
The bonus of the anonymous sender protection is that the received deniable evidence can 
become a formal sender’s signature after releasing the keystone.  According to the given 
example, if a customer decides trading with some merchant after receiving the quotation, he/she 
claims to the merchant. When the sender who releases his/her keystone, it can complete the 
unfogeability and make the sent messages as a legal signature.  There is no additional 
computation cost to convert sent messages as legal signatures.  In the other deniable 
authentication protocols, senders need generate legal signatures additionally. 
