一、摘要 
電腦模擬技術近些年來在其他產業如製造業已使用相當普遍，亦已獲得相當之認同，
均認為可降低規劃與決策階段不慎造成之機會成本，但於營建產業而言，應用普及性始終
未見提升，主因在於營建產業而言培養一位對於營建知識與建模技術相當熟悉之專門人才
以建立營建施工電腦模型，對此營造廠採用以此電腦模擬方式評估方式其意願不高，有鑑
於此本計畫提出一使用介面符合現今大部分營造業者的需求的電腦模擬系統，本計畫為提
高此一系統模擬結果之正確性，將整合作業基礎成本制及電腦模擬系統中導入模糊推論的
概念，契合實務上應用，用以估算出所以模擬之作業合理成本，藉由模糊推論系統將模擬
輸出值模糊化，降低系統資料不精確及模型假設可能造成的缺失，再將解模糊化後之明確
值帶入最佳化搜尋機制，於時間成本權衡之目標下求得較合理的解。模糊推論系統並與使
用者介面連結，便可依據不同專案之目標設定找到符合其需求之最適解。對於使用介面友
善化以及消除空間障礙的方便操作考量下，本研究將再加入網路概念，將整個介面使用上
透過網路的操作，進而提升使用的便利性。同時針對中小型營造廠於經常承纜之土木工程
類型的標準施工流程建模於此一系統之資料庫中，將可使使用者減少不必要建模時間，未
來應用時只需根據個案稍改變參數值，即可使用，再者本研究將整合作業基礎成本制及電
腦模擬系統中導入模糊推論的概念，契合實務上應用，用以估算出所以模擬之作業合理成
本，再結合網路介面以提升整體實用性。 
 
關鍵字：施工流程、電腦模擬、成本 
 1. 以物件導向做為模型的繪製與設定，建構以標準營建施工流程為對象，並透過網路建
構動態式網頁並簡化使用者介面操作，減少使用者重新繪製模型與面對複雜操作介面
所產生的困擾，只需輸入所需資源數量，達到讓使用者操作上的便利。 
2. 針對整體模型中作的基礎作業成本（Activity-Based Costing ABC），本計畫將撰寫程
式加入於流程，藉由模擬結果即可得知該施工中所需耗費的成本，以及透過模糊推論
的概念讓所模擬的結果可以較為合理與實際化。 
3. 藉由網路便利性以及快速反應之特性，因此將模擬結果可以快速顯示針對資源使用本
計畫會以敏感性分析方式，進行各項資源變動後的改善率，以及所產生成本與時間的
改善比較，並以圖表顯示出改善情形。 
4. 另外也同時記入每一工項的所需成本，以及該專案的完成成本，並將結果存放於資料
庫中，可提供使用者透過網路作一查詢，作為專案的預算推估更可以以達到使用便利
及互動的效果。 
 
2.3研究範圍 
   本計畫其研究範圍僅針對工程會所公布之標準施工流程為主要探討之對象，但目前尚以部
分常用之施工方式，如基礎工程或是鋪面工程等，尚未針對特殊建築如醫院學校等工程進行
研究。 
 
2.4文獻探討 
綜合以上相關文獻回顧，可瞭解對於電腦模擬軟體使用上，仍作業流程於生產力與成
本作探討，本計畫也借鏡相關文獻的引入部分概念於其中，在模擬方面文獻主要與本計畫
所提方向相近。 
Jae G. Jeong 2006年提出一個供應鏈的動態模擬系統模擬整個供應鏈的流程，確定出關
鍵的瓶頸點。本計畫則透過動態模擬來呈現作業流程，並透過程式的撰寫結合軟體之應
用，以達成在職行過程中可以清楚了解作業瓶頸之概念[4]。 
Marwa 2008 以cyclone為研究工具，探討鋪面時的作業效能，並針對資源與成本進一
步探討，估算可能的延遲、生產力決策與改善、資源管理與最佳化等，以洲際公路74號為
案例探討。本研究則建構相似鋪面系統，並使用出作業基礎成本概念於模型之中，用以評
估作業生產力與成本之關係[3]。 
A.R. Soltani 等人探討建設工地內車輛及機具的路徑，試圖規劃出最佳的配置方式。
此文獻考量不確定性及決策者的主觀偏見，運用模糊多目標最佳化的途徑。本計畫所採
用模糊多目標原因主要考量則是避免決策者的偏見以及最佳化搜尋所產生的及值，因此
取用雙目最佳化及模糊多目標，讓所產生的雙目標可以在所容許範圍內，搜尋出時間短
且成本合理的合適解[1]。 
Min-Yuan Cheng 提出了利用人工智慧方法的模糊神經推理模型（ EFNIM ）以提高成
本估算的準確性。固有的優勢在遺傳演算法，模糊邏輯和類神經網絡被納入 EFNIM ，使
這一模式非常適用於確定最佳解決方案複雜的問題。本計畫則引用該文獻之概念，並進
一步試著將基因演算法改以禁忌搜尋法替代與類神經結合，採禁忌搜尋的法的鄰近搜尋
以及類神經學習與記憶的概念透過兩方法結合，且試著提升整體的準確性[6]。 
頁面上，以達到快速反應之目的。以下為本計畫執行之過程。 
 
2.5.1.案例對象選擇 
本計畫所選之案例均為常用的公共工程，其中主要為參考工程會所提供數個不同類型之
標準施工流程案例，對於選擇文獻中所使用之案例，主要是透過實際案例一為驗證本研究對
於實務上的應用，另外也是透過本計畫所提出之方法應用來幫助實務方面的改善，最後仍須
以實務角度探討本計畫所建立之使用者介面的效用。因此本計畫所提出之案例類型包含道路
鋪面工程模型、連續壁工程、反循環基樁、全套管基樁等施工流程模型。 
 
2.5.2. 建模程序 
首先將先前規劃的作業流程，轉化成模擬工具所使用的架構，區分成幾個主以要程序
為，視工程大小做細分。 
（1.）建模步驟一 
作業步驟如下，首先透過案例相關作業人員及文獻收集辨識施工作業流程。 
（2.）建模步驟二轉化為 SIMPROCESS 模型 
配合 SIMPROCESS 元件，根據所選案例之作業流程建構出模型。並依每項作業所
需據屬性選擇適合的元件，將作業則以 DELAY 元件，再將作業時間依據所收集的資
料進行統計分析其時間分佈型態，填入該元件提供介面中，在依據該作業的所需資源
一一選入所需的數量輸入，如此類推將所有的作業項目一一轉換成軟體所使用的元
件，並用線條連接代表先後順序將各個作業串連為一個該程序流程，最後將第一階層
的程序相互串連完成一次整體作業。圖 1 以卡車載棄土作業為例說明 SIMPROCESS
建模。圖中顯示首先是卡車在於料場裝載混凝土原料，完成後運送到現場伴和，之後
待鋪平機需要料時進行卸料作業，卸完之貨車則再回到料場在裝載，完成依序反覆運
送直到總量材料用完，即停止，如下圖 1 所示。 
本計畫加入固定成本與間接成本此概念於整體模型中，透過模擬時的生產力結合基
礎成本概念，有助於整體成本上的預估。其本計畫加入作業基礎成本制度之設計 
1. 設定成本週期(setting up cost period)：在模擬系統建構完成後，就是設定成本的計算
週期。 
2. 設定資源成本(setting up resource cost)：此步驟為設定所消耗的資源，將所欲模擬系
統將消耗的資源，設定其單位數量、固定成本及變動成本。資源將變動成本分攤至
作業。 
3. 成本計算(cost calculation)：資源設定完成後，依據模擬系統的作業區塊(block)及階
層，設定每一區塊(可能代表某一加工站或作業)所消耗的資源。 
4. 顯示 ABC 報表(Displaying ABC Report)：經由成本計算，可全部或局部顯示模擬後各
產品經過作業所消耗的成本及總成本。 
 
 
 
 
 
c. 設定限制條件。限制方面以模型中的所有資源等待時間最短。 
d. 設定選擇程序。 
e. 選擇最佳化操作。 
       開始最佳化搜尋時模型是被維持不變動的，你能監控最佳化、停止最佳化，並且於
這界面中完成報表的建立，此外如果選擇最佳化搜尋將執行更多適合的迭代以促使接近
最大的迭代數。最佳化搜尋會建議最佳值，最佳化搜尋進行模擬結果的分析，並且將智
慧型搜尋程序所產生新的可行解記憶至系統中。 
 
（6.）模糊推論系統 
 本計畫導入模糊推論之模擬及最佳化搜尋後，為避免模型過於複雜或資訊不足導致
參數不慎精確，將可能嚴重影響模擬及最適化結果之合理性，且傳統上無法考慮決策時
因主觀偏見所造成的差異，因此透過整個推論過程使的所得到的成本工期可以與實務相
近，也趨於合理。 
 
2.5.3. 建立模型資料庫 
    資料庫是電腦化的檔案櫃，而資料庫管理系統(Database Management System)  則是
用來管理資料庫檔案的系統軟體，其中包含使用者(User)、資料(Data)、硬體(Hardware)
與軟體(Software)。目前市面所運用的資料庫軟體分很多種。圖 2 為本計畫資料庫系統建
立之畫面。 
 
    本計畫所採用 SQL Server 資料庫管理系統。具有易操作介面、易學易懂、開發簡單、
易與其他應用軟體結合特點。 
1. 管理極大量的資料及處理極繁複的查詢要求，並能同時查詢及合併多個大型或小型的
資料庫。 
2. 擁有資料管理及查詢分析的功能。 
3. 提供自定的資料輸入表格 (Data Entry Form)、圖表製作及統計報告表等。 
4. 複雜的進階功能適合專業的開發人員使用，但初學者也可以輕鬆入門。 
5.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
達到可以實際應用於業界，且切合方便操作的目標。以上其簡化許多繁複的設定與模型繪
製藉此可以提升整個使用性與便利性。 
 
圖4 系統之動態網頁 
 
圖5 標準工程流程介紹 
[6.] Min-Yuan Cheng, Hsing-Chih Tsai , Wen-Shan Hsieh , (2009), “Web-based conceptual cost 
estimates for construction projects using Evolutionary Fuzzy Neural Inference Model” 
Automation in Construction, Vol.18, No.2, pp164-172 
[7.] Tao-ming Cheng, Chung-wei Fengb , 2003 , “An effective simulation mechanism for 
construction operations” Automation in Construction , Vol.12 , pp.227– 244 
[8.] Yoo, Taejong, Cho, Hyunbo, Yücesan, Enver, (2009), “Web Services-Based Parallel Replicated 
Discrete Event Simulation for Large-Scale Simulation Optimization.” Simulation, Vol. 85, No. 7, 
pp461-475. 
[9.] 黃榮堯、詹益祥，2002，「反循環基樁施工作業之電腦模擬分析」，中國土木水利工程學
刊， 第13捲 第一期 ，pp135-145  
[10.] 吳獻堂 ，2005，動態營建資源即時配送最佳化模式之開發－以混凝土配送為例，成功大
學，土木工程學系，博士論文。 
[11.] 謝昌晟，2006，營造施工網路整合管理系統之設計與建構，國立臺灣科技大學營建工程
系，碩士論文。 
[12.] 許銘元，2003，資源分配模型模擬機制之建構，朝陽科技大學，營建工程系，碩士論文。 
 
 
四、計畫成果自評 
根據本計畫所建立的系統模型可進行資源組合敏感性分析，以整體系統作主要關鍵資源
作為決策變數為考量，提供各項資源依據分析完的改善情形以及工期成本的改善率並以圖表
方式顯示所改善的情形回傳至網頁上，更可進一步藉由資料庫查詢之介面，透過實務界實際
應用，最後透過回饋修改，以達到本計畫切合實用。 
對於本計畫所建構之模型是依據工程會所公布標準施工流程，可依據專案不同進而選
擇，因此不需再修改模型，因此對於未來國家工程建設上的運用，可使本模型被廣泛的實用
時營建實務中。 
    此外人員之訓練方面，網路化介面對於軟體上的連結與資料庫上的應用，可以提升本計
畫整體的相關應用，有助於未來相關工程於規劃時運用與參考，並以充分達到經驗上的學習。 
 
 
in order to explain more clearly and build a more accurate financial crisis warning model, and compare 
it with the artificial neural network, among data mining techniques. 
B. Research scope and limitation 
The scope of this research mainly covers two items as follows. 
a. Research subjects 
This study aims to forecast the financial crisis of construction investment industry, namely 
construction companies that develop, lease, and sell residential housings and industrial plants. 
b. Research scope 
Under the Asian Financial Crisis and the economic downturn, many construction companies 
encountered financial crises in 1999~2002. If the research period is extended, the financial crisis 
factors of construction company would differ significantly due to different time-space background, so 
that this study defines the research period as 1999~2002. 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
This study integrates data mining, macro-economy and business cycle variables to build a 
construction industry financial crisis warning model, and compares it with the artificial neural network 
model, for reference to decision-makers. Beaver (1966) first applied separate unvaried analysis in 
enterprise financial crisis warning model, and employed pair wise sampling to select 79 pairs of sample 
companies in the U.S. during 1954–1964. He selected non-bankruptcy companies according to industry 
and asset size, chose 30 indicators and categorized them into six clusters, and took six indicators with 
small error rate during five years before bankruptcy of each cluster as major test objects, namely, “cash 
flow / total liabilities”, “net income / total assets”, “total liabilities / total assets”, “working capital / 
total assets”, “current ratio”, and “non-borrowing period”. According to binomial test, it was found that 
“cash flow / total liabilities” ratio had the best effect of forecasting financial crisis. 
III. CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY 
FINANCIAL CRISIS FORECAST 
MODEL FRAMWORK 
This section will apply CRISP-DM into the research process of this study, and acquire and 
analyze data from finance statements published by current listed and over-the-counter companies, in 
order to find critical factors of construction industry financial crisis. In terms of modeling, decision tree 
is taken for forecast model, and compared with the artificial neural network, in order to build a 
financial crisis warning model. 
A. Definition of financial crisis 
The data of this study are from the China Taiwan Economic Journal (TEJ) database, thus the 
definition by the China Taiwan Economic Journal on financial crisis is adopted. If the situation fits any 
of the listed items, it is considered a financial crisis. 
B. Samples 
This study selects a total of 23 construction companies meeting the above financial crisis 
definition, and pairs with normal companies in the same industry. A total of 23 normal companies are 
Network parameters Setting remarks 
1. COMPLEXITY_PENALTY 0.2-0.5  
2. SCORE_METHOD 1、3 1:C5.0， 
3:CART 
3. MINIMUM_SUOOPRT 1-2  
4. SPLIT_METHOD 1、2 1:C5.0， 
2:CART 
IV. RESEARCH RESULTS 
This section will discuss the forecasting result of the artificial neural network and data mining  
ecision tree. It includes two parts: 1) introduce the warning model with financial variables as indicators, 
and combination of factor analysis and artificial neural network, or Model A; 2) introduce the 
forecasting result still with financial variables as indicators, but applying data mining decision tree 
algorithm in variable screening and modeling, or Model B. 
Research indicators of this part are financial variables, variable screening basis is factor analysis, 
artificial neural network is combined as warning model, warning models are divided into the model for 
one year prior to financial crisis, the related modeling process and result are described below. 
A. Artificial neural network analysis 
ANN-based financial crisis warning model is applied to variables screened. Since network 
parameter design would affect forecasting result, various parameter combinations are employed to find 
the optimum warning model. 
When forecasting financial crisis, substitute training group and test group data to artificial neural 
network to operate, and obtain the output value. Huang (2007) set the output value at 0.5 as the 
dividing point (the company is in crisis if the output value is greater than 0.5, and normal company if 
output value is less than 0.5), which is also adopted in this study. The optimum network pattern is 12 
input variables, 26 hidden layer neurons, 1 output layer (12-26-1). When there is good forecasting 
effect, the overall discrimination accuracy of A Warning model is 91.6% for training group, and 
83.33% for test group.  
This section takes financial variables for research indicators, and combines data mining decision 
tree algorithm to perform variable screening and build warning model. The warning models include the 
model for one year prior to financial crisis. The related modeling process and result are described 
below. 
B. Decision tree analysis 
The performance is compared through “gain chart”, and better-performed model is chosen as 
decision tree warning model, as detailed below:  
In case of predicting financial crisis, substitute training group and test group data to decision tree 
for operation, and obtain the output value; in case of forecasting result evaluation, the decision tree 
output value is set as “0” and “1”, hence, 1 denotes company in crisis, 0 denotes normal company. The 
gain chart in Figure 3 shows that C5.0 forecasting effect is better than CART. The  results of B 
warning model are shown in Table2. 
crisis warning models respectively and compared them; the research result of this study was 
summarized as follows:  
A. Comparison of financial crisis warning models established through data mining artificial neural 
network and decision tree showed that, artificial neural network had better forecasting 
performance than decision tree model. 
B.  This study screened critical variables through factor analysis: debt-to-equity ratio, quick ratio, 
borrowing dependence, inventory turnover ratio, earnings per share.  
C.  As known from tree rule analysis of decision tree, among above critical variables, the variables 
more discriminating to financial crisis warning were debt-to-equity ratio, earnings per share, 
borrowing dependence, and this part of information were unavailable in past dark box structure of 
artificial neural network, hence, decision tree assistance could solve artificial neural network 
inability to know variable relation and rule. 
REFERENCES 
[1] McDonald, J.T. 1999. “The determinants of firm 
profitability in Australian manufacturing, ”Economic Record, Vol. 75, pp.115-126 . 
[2] Odom, M.D. and R.Sharda, 1990. “A Neural Network Model for Bankruptcy Prediction, ” IEEE INNS IJCNN, 
Vol. 1, No. 2, pp.163-168.  
[3] Ohlson, J. A., 1980 ,“Financial Ratios and the Probabilistic Prediction of Bankruptcy,” Journal of Accounting 
Research, Vol. 18, No. 1, pp.109-131. 
 [4] Beaver, W. H, 1966 , “Financial Ratio as Predictors of Failure,” Empirical Research in Accounting: Selected 
Study, Supplement to Journal of Accounting Research, pp.71-111.  
[5] Abidali, A.F. and Harris, F., 1995, “A methodology for predicting company failure in the construction industry, 
Journal of Construction Management and Economics, Vol.13, pp.189-196.. 
Author Biography 
1. Pan Nai Hsin,male, SUNY at Buffalo, PhD., 
National Yunlin University of Science and Technology, Associate Professor, Construction 
Management, 123, Section 3, University Rd., 640 
construction industry, in attempt to clearly 
analyze and define supply chain applicable to 
construction industry via systematic manner. 
The purpose of this paper is aimed to build the 
supply chain model of the construction project 
on the basis of SCOR, and study a series of 
demand and-supply behavior ranging from 
material purchasing, stocking, processing and 
delivery via a case study. The supply chain 
model is created using computer simulation 
software “ SIMPROCESS ”  in hierarchy 
manner, thus users can identify the bottlenecks 
of the supply chain and enhance the performance 
of the construction project SCM. 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
Supper Chain Management (SCM) was a 
concept first proposed by Houlihan in 1984, an 
important development in corporate logistic 
segment, initially it used the systematic 
dynamics concept and technique proposed by 
Prof. Forrester to deal with actual distribution 
and delivery operation [3]. The related study of 
SCM on the construction application and SCOR 
in other industry’s application will be illustrated 
as below .  
In 2005, Joseph H. and et al. [4] presented 
for construction project supply chain covering 
varied product/service types and business 
interest, where many core challenges include the 
improvement of time and quality of finished 
product, the reduction of unnecessary cost, and 
leverage of design liability. For construction 
industry, the experience of supply chain is 
unprecedented, upon customer change and 
dynamic and continuous competition, 
relationship of supply chain members was 
reviewed. In 2004, Walsh and et al. [5] proposed 
that good SCM via simulation can make a 
precise material requirement planning (MRP) in 
advance to meet the demand of the construction 
site and inform item information which includes 
quantity, specification, and location of specific 
material delivery to the project manager. Vrijhoe 
and et al. presented every construction projects 
may have similar construction processes, 
however, each project was still deemed to be 
unique [6].  
SCOR subdivides SCM process into five 
processes: Plan (P), Source (S), Make (M), 
Deliver (D) and Return (R). Demand and supply 
of these five modules were planned and 
controlled in detail. Based on fundamental 
elements of 5-perspective (Plan, Source, Make, 
Delivery, and Return) in SCOR, the basic 
elements of each step wereestablished in 
hierarchically, relationship between various 
management steps were defined, performance 
measure of each basic step was defined, 
optimum solution of each basic step and 
applicable software feature for each basic step 
were determined. Primarily used to describe 
measure and analyze supply chain structure, 
SCOR can help the supply chain stakeholders 
find management problems in supply chain 
precisely, evaluate its property impartially, set 
target of periodical correction of defect problems, 
and even determine trend of supply chain 
management software development. 
III. A CASE STUDY - ANALYSIS OF 
SCOR-BASED CONSTRUCTION 
PROJECT SUPPLY CHAIN TYPE 
This paper selected a bridge construction 
project as a case study; one of main construction 
material used in the project includes steel 
bar(Steel bar), accounting for over half of total 
material cost, therefore in raw material sourcing 
model, this study would investigate supply chain 
behavior of steel bar(Steel bar). Information 
flow and material flow exist in supply chain, 
customer end (i.e. construction field) demand of 
material calls for material delivery from precast 
yard (i.e. distributor), if the stock at this level 
cannot meet the demand, then the precast yard 
will order from raw material suppliers. Normally 
a precast yard would estimate the demand 
according to historical data or experiences, and 
place order on supplier in advance to avoid 
shortage of material. 
A. Abbreviati Product sourcing behavior 
analysis 
(i) Steel bar sourcing 
In steel bar sourcing, in accordance with 
construction schedule and amount stated in 
contract, a precast yard usually shall place an 
order on steel bar manufacturer several days in 
advance, normally 21 days in the case. What a 
precast yard has to do is just to ensure no 
interrupt of steel bar supply, generally, at least 2 
steel bar suppliers would be chosen, because 
steel bar price is in incessant fluctuation, in the 
case, from interviews it’s known that a span 
consumes about 80t steel bar, the daily output of 
steel bar manufacturer is 1700t, the precast yard 
would require steel bar manufacturer to secure at 
least one month safety stock in precast yard, the 
daily stock level of steel bar is to maintain an 
amount of over two spans of box girders, about 
160t.  
The relationship structure of the 
construction supply chain members in THSR 
After the case study, the research found that 
besides SCOR can efficiently help manager 
build construction project supply chain model to 
understand the behaviors of the supply chain 
member and measure the performance of SCM. 
During the research, there are also several 
findings about applying the SCOR in 
construction project： 
SCOR provides a standard supply chain 
model applicable to different industries, but in 
construction, incompatibility exists when 5 
SCOR perspectives and sub items are applied in 
construction industry, in definition of Make, 
customized products are most often used to 
determine actual order specification and size 
before starting production, and aging properties 
of some building material are doubtful, so this 
function cannot be fully transplanted; in 
Delivery process, some practices are used in 
inspection, process of returning purchased 
material or receiving returned product are mostly 
run in Deliver Make-to-Order mode, so level 
application is not so restricted as other definition 
application, therefore sub items in five SCOR 
definitions appear simpler than other industries. 
Construction industry can use SCOR to 
measure with competitors, supply chain process 
was built based on SCOR to determine 
strategically factors to change and related 
performance index, and define new supply chain 
structure. After assessing existing status, it’s 
found that supply chain performance measures 
can be relied to inspect, if all performance 
measures lag far behind rivals, then the company 
can take SCORCard performance measures as 
criteria, analyze and improve the supply chain 
management on current status. 
Construction business source is unstable, 
manufacturer information communication less 
efficiently, much material information are in 
shortage, so not all SCOR reference models 
apply to construction industry. The overall 
information concept has to be invested to 
execute SCOR.  
SCOR introduction needs coordination of 
all supply chain members, its goal is to improve 
overall supply chain, all information can be 
shared and communicated, so as to enhance 
supply chain efficiency. SCOR is a process 
reference model, mainly used to build 
correlation governing all supply chain members. 
Same as a kind of standard language, it let 
managers concentrate on management issue; and 
same as a company standard operation procedure 
(SOP), SCOR can aid in cross-enterprise supply 
chain management, and reserve much flexibility 
for an enterprise or project to adjust. 
According to result of this study, the 
difference of using and not using SCOR were 
shown in Table 1 below. 
 
Table 1. SCOR ANALYSIS TABLE 
Without SCOR With SCOR 
Conventional supply chain 
Management program 
doesn’t take overall 
supply chain into account, 
member communication is 
not easy in void of overall 
supply chain. 
Operation reference model 
of Supply Chain 
Association has 
consolidated standard for 
many industries, aiding in 
synergy of company and 
partner. 
Susceptible to cause 
ambiguous role definition 
of supply chain members. 
use 5 management process 
elements to define relations 
between various 
management process and 
determine in levels 
varied definition of supply 
chain evaluation 
Provide 5-perspective 
process level structure for 
reference of organization or 
project performance 
evaluation. 
Lack of information 
visibility 
Encode process category 
systematically, enhance 
information visibility in 
supply chain. 
IV. CONCLUSIONS AND SUGGESTIONS 
This study primarily investigated the supply 
chain behavior of a bridge construction project 
from procurement, processing to field 
installation, focused on key points of supply 
chain model design and analysis, and built such 
a model using the dynamic simulation concept, 
in order to aid organization or project in fast ad 
complete analysis of supply chain operation 
model. In this study, the following conclusion 
will be as follows: 
Construction supply chain has huge 
structure covering many complicated industries; 
no supply chain operation model has been built 
up to now. SCOR provides a supply chain 
operation model building standard which can 
easily communicate among supply chain 
members and better understanding of their roles. 
A stakeholder in the supply chain can 
communicate directly with other members on 
improvement issues via the supply chain model. 
SCOR provides a cross-industry supply 
chain model standard, but in construction, there 
is still incompatibility in application of five 
SCOR definitions and sub items in the 
construction project, construction products are 
vulnerable to nondeterministic factors such as 
weather variation, and their process is somewhat 
different from common manufacturing process, 
therefore not all SCOR operation model can 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/15
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 改良式營建電腦模擬系統之研究
計畫主持人: 潘乃欣
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-224-066- 學門領域: 營建管理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
根據本計畫所建立的系統模型可進行資源組合敏感性分析，以整體系統作主要
關鍵資源作為決策變數為考量，提供各項資源依據分析完的改善情形以及工期
成本的改善率並以圖表方式顯示所改善的情形回傳至網頁上，更可進一步藉由
資料庫查詢之介面，透過實務界實際應用，最後透過回饋修改，以達到本計畫
切合實用。 
對於本計畫所建構之模型是依據工程會所公布標準施工流程，可依據專案不同
進而選擇，因此不需再修改模型，因此對於未來國家工程建設上的運用，可使
本模型被廣泛的實用時營建實務中。 
此外人員之訓練方面，網路化介面對於軟體上的連結與資料庫上的應用，可以
提升本計畫整體的相關應用，有助於未來相關工程於規劃時運用與參考，並以
充分達到經驗上的學習。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
