 2
研究計畫中英文摘要：  
（一） 計畫中文摘要。 
醫學影像是醫療診斷上一個很重要的依據，醫學影像的品質不佳會影響診斷正確率，
所以本計畫提出透過一些特殊影像處理來提昇醫學影像品質，例如：影像增強、降低影像
斑紋、影像壓縮等等。且由於醫學科技的發達，醫學資訊和知識的累積愈來愈快速。而醫
學影像資訊在醫學資訊中佔有很大的比重且日益加大，不管是 2D 或 3D 的醫學圖像資訊越
來越多，所以需要的儲存空間也愈來愈大。計畫希望能找出一個能兼顧影像品質與檔案大
小的演算法並加入一些有助於診療的特殊功能。我們計畫分為兩大主軸：第一為醫學影像
的品質提昇；第二為醫學影像的壓縮。前者是利用醫學影像在小波率域上成像特性去作去
斑紋處理以及影像增強。後者是利用 2D SPIHT 延伸至 3D SPIHT 演算法並且加入 3D 影像的
重點式位元串的編排 (Region of interesting; ROI)ROI 配合網路傳輸模式。最後，在將
經過處理的醫學影像與現有文獻提出的方法所處理的影像作比較並探討其優缺點，並請臨
床醫生來評定影像品質是否有助於診療。 
關鍵詞: 影像增強、影像斑紋、影像壓縮 
 
（二） 計畫英文摘要。 
Medical images are the basis of diagnosis, and the visual qualities of them affect the correct 
rate of diagnosis. The project proposes some image processing methods that include image 
enhancement, image speckle reduction, and image compression…etc to improve the visual 
quality of medical images. Because of the medical science advancement medical information and 
knowledge have been increased more rapidly. Medical images are the main part of the medical 
information, whether 2D or 3D medical image information is more increased day by day. 
Therefore, they need the larger storage space. But the storage space is limited; we propose a good 
visional quality and higher compression rate algorithm and add some special functions into this 
algorithm for diagnosis. The project has two main parts: one part is the visual quality 
improvement of medical images; and the other part is the medical image compression. The 
former method reduces speckles and enhances image intensity and contrast based on the medical 
image characteristics on wavelet domain, and the letter one proposes the 3D-medical-image 
SPIHT that extends from 2D SPIHT and adds the region of interesting bitstream coding of 3D 
SPIHT for the internet transmission. Finally, we compare the quality of the reconstructed image 
by this project with that by the recent research and analyze the advantages and disadvantages of 
those methods. And professors and clinicians decide whether the reconstructed images are helpful 
for diagnosis. 
Keywords: image enhancement, image speckle, image compression 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
