行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫
█ 成 果 報 告   
□ 期中進度報告 
成長於非極化氮化鎵之寬能隙材料及光電元件研究： 
子計劃一 非極性氮化鎵半導體材料元件磊晶成長 
 
計畫類別： 個別型計畫 █  整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E009－094－MY3 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：王興宗  
共同主持人： 郭浩中、盧廷昌 
計畫參與人員： 柯宗憲、凌碩均、黃煇閔、卓立夫、詹惟雯 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告 ■完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年█二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立交通大學光電工程研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 九十九 年 十 月 十四 日 
 
 
 
compositions ( 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.2 ) were grown and the Al composition x were estimated by the X-ray 
diffraction angle separation between AlGaN and GaN peaks. The results of the AlxGa1−xN alloy 
X-ray rocking curve along the different direction exhibited an opposite trend, which will be 
discussed immediately. The optical properties for were investigated by photoluminescence (PL) 
spectroscopy and the results revealed that the PL peak position shifted from 3.42 eV to 3.87 eV 
with0 ≤ x ≤ 0.2 . Apart from the shifted peak position with increasing Al content, it was also 
found that the PL emission intensity and surface morphology of the a-plane AlGaN alloy with 
relatively low Al content show better characteristic than that of the a-plane GaN and AlGaN with 
higher Al composition. We supposed that the enhancement of Ga migration or partially defects 
filled by the slight Al atom possibly result in the improvement of optical quality and surface 
morphology. Based on the experimental results in this project, the relationship between optical 
and structural characteristics of a-plane GaN-based materials presented here shall be beneficial to 
the growth and design visible, ultraviolet (UV), and deep UV optoelectronic devices. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
EXPERIMENTS 
(1) Optimal growth condition of the a-plane GaN:  
The experiments were carried out in the low-pressure metal-organic chemical vapor 
deposition (MOCVD) system. We used low-temperature AlN as nucleation layers instead of 
traditional GaN layers. The nucleation layer growth temperature and thickness were 600℃ and 
30 nm, respectively. The V/III ratio for the nucleation layer is 13800. In order to obtain suitable 
growth conditions for a-plane GaN films, influence of different pressures (100, 200, and 300 torr) 
and temperatures (1020, 1070 and 1120℃) on growth of 2μm thick GaN bulks was studied. 
Trimethylgallium (TMGa), trimethylaluminum (TMAl) and ammonia were used as Ga, Al and N 
sources, respectively. Then, we fixed the growth pressure and temperature, for which would 
result in the smoothest surface morphology, and changed different thickness of AlN nucleation 
layers from 30 nm to 15 and 45 nm. In addition, the V/III ratio for growth of the GaN bulk was 
adjusted from 900 to 600 and 1200, subsequently. The surface morphologies of all samples were 
characterized by scanning electronic microscopy (SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM). 
(2) Improvement of crystal quality in a-plane GaN:  
Bulk a-plane GaN was grown on the r-plane sapphire using a low-pressure MOCVD system. 
Trimethylgallium (TMGa), tri-methylaluminum (TMAl), ammoniaandsilane (SiH4) were used as 
Ga, Al, N and Si sources, respectively. First, low-temperature AlN was used as the nucleation 
layer with layer growth temperature and thickness of 600 
0
C and 30 nm, respectively. The V/III 
ratio for the nucleation layer was 13800. 2 μm thick GaN layers were grown on the nucleation 
layer at temperature of 1120 
0
C and pressure of 1.33 × 10
4
 Pascal (Pa). In order to investigate the 
optimum position of SiNx insertion layer for the growth of a-plane GaN, we grew thin SiNx layers 
for 120 s at 600 
0
C and 4 × 10
4
 Pa at different positions in our structure. For case A, we grew the 
sample without using SiNx layer. We inserted the SiNx layer in the GaN / GaN interface (1 μm / 1 
μm) for case B, in the GaN / AlN interface for case C, and in the AlN / sapphire interface for case 
D. The schematic diagrams were inserted in Fig. 1. After determination of the optimal position of 
SiNx insertion layer, SiNx insertion layers with different growth times from 60 s to 180 s were 
also grown. 
In addition, the lattice mismatch between a-plane GaN and r-plane sapphire results in serious 
aniostropic in-plane strain difference between orthogonal crystal axes. Recently, successful 
epitaxial lateral overgrowth (ELOG) of a-plane GaN on r-plane sapphire has been reported [16]. 
According to the investigated results, the crystal quality of a-plane GaN film was also 
successfully improved by using trenched epitaxial lateral overgrowth (TELOG) and nanorod 
epitaxial lateral overgrowth (NRELOG) of a-plane GaN. Figure 2 shows the flow chart of the 
process sequence of the a-GaN template and subsequent TELOG. At first, the a-plane GaN 
templates with 1.5 μm thickness were grown with low pressure MOCVD on r-plane sapphire 
substrates using conventional two-step growth technique. After a series of conventional 
photolithography techniques, a 2-μm-seed/ 1.8-μm-trench TELOG stripe pattern was applied 
parallel to the [1100] direction to realize vertical c-plane sidewalls. Mask patterning was followed 
by etching of SiO2 using inductively coupled plasma etching through the windows to the GaN 
(4) Growth of a-plane GaN-based material alloys 
The a-plane AlxGa1xN alloys with different Al compositions were grown on r-plane 
sapphire substrates by low-pressure MOCVD system. Initially, the two-inch diameter r-plane 
sapphire substrate was thermal cleaned with hydrogen (H2) at 1080 C, then a thin SiNx layer was 
inserted before depositing an approximately 30-nm-thick AlN nucleation layer with V/III ratio of 
about 14000 on the substrate at 570 C, which has been demonstrated to improve the crystal 
quality of subsequent epilayers. Furthermore, the growth temperature was raised up to 1060 C 
and the V/III ratio was about 1500 for growth of a 1.8-μm-think GaN layer. Finally, AlxGa1xN 
alloys with different Al compositions were grown at 1060 C by changing the molar flux ratio 
TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) (i.e., increasing the TMAl flux rate and keeping the TMGa flux rate to 
obtain AlGaN epilayers), and the chamber pressure was set about 1.33104 Pa. The TMAl flow 
rate was changed from 0 to 40 sccm, corresponding to the molar flux rate from 0 to 47 μmol/min. 
To avoid the formation of surface cracks, we controlled the thicknesses of all AlGaN in this study 
to be smaller than 300 nm.  
After the growth, the surface morphologies of a-plane AlxGa1xN alloys were characterized 
by field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), optical microscope (OM), and atomic 
force microscopy (AFM). The crystal quality and Al composition x of the AlxGa1xN were studied 
by X-ray diffraction (XRD) including rocking curve and ω/2θ scan measurements, respectively. 
For optical measurements, the polarization-dependent photoluminescence (PL) was carried out at 
room temperature. The excitation source was a frequency tripled Ti:sapphire laser at 266 nm, 
with the pulse width and repetition rate of 200 femtosecond and 76 MHz, respectively. The 
luminescence was dispersed by a 0.55 m monochromator with the 2400 grooves/mm grating and 
detected by a high sensitivity photomultiplier tube for ultraviolet-visible wavelengths. The light 
polarization is measured at the surface normal direction with a collection angle of 8 degrees. An 
ultraviolet linear polarizer was set in front of the light collection fiber to examine the polarization 
property. The numerical aperture (N.A.) of the optical measurement system is about 0.15. In the 
case of the a-plane sample, a polarized angle of 0 degrees is defined to be parallel to the 
c-axis         while the 90 degrees is along m-axis        . The optical polarization emission 
was also simulated by     method for calculating the dispersion relation of the valence-band 
and the corresponding wave functions to explain the issue of valence-band states mixing.  
 
Fig. 1. Structural schematic diagrams of the a-plane GaN grown via inserting the SiNx layer in 
different positions. 
wavy stripes formed along c-axis could be clearly observed in Fig. 5 (f), (h) and (i). The possible 
reason of strip formed was due to the faster growth rate along c-direction than m-direction. On 
the other hand, the irregular strips could not be observed in Fig. 5 (b)~(e) and (g) except for 
triangle pits on the surface. In general, the common feature of V defects is characteristically 
observed when the c-plane GaN grown in the kinetically limited condition [17]. The V defect for 
a c-plane GaN is an inverted pyramid bound by the pyramidal {10 2 1} facets. Since the V defect 
only appears it is half side in an a-plane GaN under the non-polar growth scheme, such kind of 
pits was named a triangle pit originating from upon the island growth and coalescing at the initial 
growth of the high temperature GaN bulk [18]. 
As a result, we could suggest that the growth mechanism of a-plane GaN at the beginning 
stage followed a Volmer-Weber (VW) mode which would lead to the three dimension (3D) 
growth. Each GaN column was probably grown from a GaN island formed on top of AlN 
nucleation layer. After most of the islands merged to each other, a Frank-van der Merwe (F-vdM) 
mode occurred and dominated the subsequent growth process, leading to two dimensional (2D) 
growth. The 2D growth condition is necessary for thick a-plane GaN since the difference of 
growth rate could occur between c-axis and m-axis. Otherwise, the 3D growth would result in the 
appearances of triangle pit and wavy strips. In addition to the effect of epitaxial temperature and 
pressure, the thickness of the nucleation layer and the V/III ratio for growth of the a-plane GaN 
bulk were also considered. The growth pressure and temperature were fixed to the same values as 
those resulting in the best surface morphology. Then, the thickness of the nucleation layer and the 
V/III ratio were modified. The thickness of nucleation layer was adjusted from 30 nm to 15 and 
45 nm. And the V/III ratio was adjusted from 900 to 600 and 1200. The surface morphologies of 
all samples were observed by AFM and the results were shown in Fig. 6. The center 3D AFM 
image is the result of the sample grown at 1120℃ and at 100 torr, which shown submicro pits and 
additional stripe features along the [0001] direction. Meanwhile, the sample showed very smooth 
surface with a root mean square (RMS) roughness of only 10.5 Å . Such roughness was far less 
than the previous report by Ni et al., whose sample was grown at lower growth temperature on a 
thicker nucleation layer [19]. 
However, when we used AlN nucleation layers with thickness thinner and thicker than 30 
nm, the surface morphologies would get worse along with many pits with sizes around 100 nm. 
Owing to the fact that each GaN column could be grown from GaN nucleus formed on top of 
each columnar AlN region, the columns of AlN should have optimal disordered orientations for 
GaN growth. Once the thickness of AlN nucleation layer has been changed, it could cause the 
variation of disordered orientations and degrade the surface morphology. On the other hand, the 
surface morphology got worse when the V/III ratio was increased or decreased from 900. The 
high V/III ratio led to high NH3 flow and further produced more amounts of hydrogen during the 
growth process. Some pits distributed on the surface, under the high V/III ratio, could be due to 
the excess hydrogen facilitating the surface dissociation rate and damaging the surface 
morphology [20]. Although the low V/III ratio condition benefits the 2D growth, some Ga atoms 
would not react with insufficient N atoms causing a wavy surface. To sum up the above 
discussions, we suggest that both the thickness of nucleation layer and the V/III ratio have 
optimal values to grow an a-plane GaN bulk. 
(2) Improvement of crystal quality in a-plane GaN:  
Figure 7 shows the tilted AFM images and structure schemes of the a-plane GaN with SiNx 
layers inserted in different positions within the layer structures. Some pits were present on the 
surface, so-called triangle pits originating upon the island growth and coalescing at the initial 
growth of the high temperature GaN bulk layer. The pit density and the surface roughness of 
a-plane GaN were related to the threading dislocation density. The stripe features along [0001] 
direction are clearly seen due to the faster growth rate along c-direction than m-direction. The 
root means square (RMS) roughness of these a-plane GaN improved from 0.83 to 0.53 nm when 
the SiNx layer was inserted closer to the r-plane sapphire substrate. In comparison, the a-plane 
GaN grown without using SiNx insertion layer possessed the worst surface morphology with the 
roughness RMS value of 1.02 nm. 
The use of in-situ SiNx interlayer has proven to be an effective method in defect reduction in 
conventional c-plane GaN [21]. Chakraborty et al. has also reported the use of SiNx nanomask for 
defect reduction in a-plane GaN films [22]. However, the optimal position of SiNx insert layer in 
a-plane GaN structure has not been clear and the luminescence improvement of relevant 
structures has not been investigated yet. In this part, we utilized in-situ SiNx insertion layer for 
crystalline improvement of nonpolar a-plane GaN films during epitaxial process using metal 
organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD). The optimal position and suitable growth time of 
in-situ SiNx insertion layer were studied to improve the quality of a-plane GaN. Figure 8 shows 
the full width at half maximum (FWHM) of high-resolution X-ray rocking curves along [0001] c 
and [1100] m directions (Phi = 0
0
 and Phi = 90
0
, respectively) for the four samples described in 
fig. 1. The FWHM of X-ray rocking curves for an a-plane GaN bulk layer in [1100] direction was 
larger than that in [0001] direction whether an inserted SiNx layer was present or not. It shows 
that the strains between the orthogonal crystal axes, c-axis and m-axis, are quite different and 
facilitate the formation of line defects. The narrower FWHM of XRD rocking curve indicates that 
the quality of a-plane GaN gets better when an SiNx layer was inserted closer to r-plane sapphire 
substrate, which is consistent with the AFM results described previously. The FWHM values of 
XRD results were decreased from 797 to 712 arcsec for [0001] direction and from 1056 to 977 
arcsec for [1100] directions. As a result, both AFM and XRD experiments indicated that the SiNx 
layer inserted on r-plane sapphire could improve the crystal quality and suppress more 
dislocations caused by lattice mismatch between sapphire and epitaxial layer. Figure 9 shows the 
top view SEM images for samples of case A to case D. The surface morphology of the sample 
without SiNx insertion layer existed a lot of tiny pits. In contrast, the samples using SiNx insertion 
layer closer to sapphire substrate possess better surface morphology. 
After determination of the optimal position of the SiNx insertion layer, the effect of different 
SiNx deposition times was investigated. Different SiNx insertion layers with deposition times 
from 60 s to 180 s were grown directly on r-plane sapphire followed by the nucleation layer AlN 
and bulk GaN. Figure 10 shows the tilted AFM images of a-plane GaN templates with different 
SiNx deposition times. There were several triangle pits on the surface of the a-plane GaN for SiNx 
deposition times of 60 s and 180 s, but not for the deposition time of 120 s. The surface 
morphology got worse when the SiNx deposition time was increased or decreased from 120 s. 
    On the other hand, we also improve (1120) a-plane GaN crystal quality by using epitaxial 
lateral overgrowth on trenched and nanorod a-plane GaN templates. In the part of TELOG, we 
stopped the process before the coalescence of the GaN films to observe the growth mechanism. 
The SEM images of cross-sectional and birds-view TELOG GaN by MOCVD were shown in Fig. 
11 (a). The growth rate of the Ga-face wing was twice faster than the N-face wing. However, the 
ratio of growth rate in Ga-face wing to N-face wing was not as high as an order of magnitude 
reported by Imer et al [23]. A thin GaN layer about 0.2 μm grown on the bottom of the trenches, 
as shown in Fig. 11 (b), could be the reason to hinder the lateral growth rate in the Ga-face wing 
and hence affect the epitaxial quality.  
High-resolution x-ray rocking curves along [0001] c and [1100] m directions were shown 
in Fig. 12. The full width at half maximum (FWHM) of x-ray rocking curves for an as-grown 
a-GaN 1.5 μm bulk layer in [1100] direction is almost twice as large as that in [0001] direction. It 
shows that the strains between the orthogonal crystal axes, c-axis and m-axis, are quite different 
and enhance the formation of line defects. Moreover, the surface geometry could show a wavy, 
stripelike growth feature if the nucleation layer was not optimized or the epitaxial film was thick. 
However, after lateral overgrowth, the stresses of TELOG layer were released in both c axis and 
m axis and thus the crystal quality was enhanced especially in the [1100] direction. As shown in 
Fig. 12, the FWHM of x-ray rocking curves for a TELOG layer was reduced from 1811 to 352 
arc sec. Since the strip of the TELOG layer did not coalesce, we observed obvious wing tilt 
phenomenon along [0001) direction leading to the broadening effect of the x-ray rocking curve. 
Unlike the symmetric wing tilt in c-plane ELOG GaN [20, 24], the wing tilt in a-plane TELOG 
GaN is asymmetric shown in the x-ray rocking curve, resulting from the different lateral growth 
rates of the window GaN in the [0001] and the [0001] directions [23, 25]. Although the FWHM 
of x-ray rocking curves for a TELOG layer was only reduced from 973 to 816 arc sec, the crystal 
quality would be better as the TELOG film fully coalesced to lessen wing tilt phenomenon. 
We then continue to perform the TELOG process with a 2 μm seed /18 μm trench stripe pattern 
to obtain a fully coalesced a-plane GaN film, as shown in the SEM image of Fig. 13. The 
coalescence process can fully be completed for the thickness around 10 μm, it is a useful 
technique to overcome the thickness problem that the previous ELOG always needs more than 30 
μm to fully coalesce. The FWHM of x-ray curves can be reduced to 385 arc sec in [0001] and 
260 arc sec in [1100] directions without wing tilt phenomenon demonstrating not only a high 
crystal quality but also an isotropic characteristic of a-plane TELOG GaN films. 
The distributions and types of dislocations were investigated by cross-sectional TEM shown 
in Figs. 14 (a) and 14 (b). According to the g=(0002) and g=(1120) two beam bright field images, 
most of the threading dislocations are obvious in both of the g=(1120) and (0002) two beam 
conditions, indicating that these dislocations are mixed a+c type dislocations. The threading 
dislocation densities (TDDs) of stripped GaN seed in region 2 was more than 11010 cm−2. TDD 
of Ga-face GaN wing in region 4 was about 9109 cm−2 and TDD of N-face GaN wing in region 
1 was about 3107 cm−2, three orders of magnitude lower than planar films. Because the lateral 
growth mode could be affected when the laterally grown layers encounters the underlying GaN 
layers, we suggest that the crystal quality of Ga-face GaN with a higher growth rate could be 
easily affected by the thin a-GaN layer grown on the bottom of the uncoalesced windows. Due to 
Compared with the above-mentioned TLEOG techniques, the nanorod epitaxial lateral 
overgrowth (NRELOG) is highly advantageous for thinner coalescence thickness, lower cost, and 
easier realization of a high-quality GaN template. The diameter of the Ni mask is 300–500 nm 
and the mask density is estimated to be around 6108 /cm2 as shown in Fig. 15 (a). Since the 
etching rate of RIE is anisotropic, we can control the RIE parameters to remove the SiO2 on top 
of a-plane nanorods and simultaneously leave residual SiO2 on sidewalls of rods, as shown in Fig. 
15 (b). Figures 15 (c) and 15 (d) show the SEM images of initial regrowth on a-plane GaN 
nanorods in 45° and 90° angle of view, respectively. The inset of Fig. 15 (c) illustrates a GaN 
seed grown on the a-plane nanorod. Because of the sidewall passivation, the GaN regrowth along 
the side facets of rods was suppressed and GaN seeds only deposit on the top of nanorods. Since 
the growth rate in the Ga face (+c direction) was tenfold magnitude higher than that in N face (−c 
direction) [26], the Ga face became the arrowlike shape. The morphology of the N face became a 
half of hexagon and maintained mirrorlike flatness as shown in Fig. 14 (d). As a result, the shape 
of the GaN seed was similar to that of the lying hexagonal pyramid. These GaN seeds combined 
with each other and finally became a fully coalesced GaN film. Figure 15 (e) shows the 
crosssectional SEM image of the fully coalesced GaN film. The NRELOG coalesced process can 
be completed within the thickness of 10 μm in comparison to the fully coalescence thickness of 
over 20–40 μm obtained in previous LEO techniques. Figure 14 (f) exhibits the magnified picture 
of the black circular dotted line in Fig. 15 (e). We observed that the NRELOG epilayer was 
suspended on the GaN nanorods due to the sidewall passivation by SiO2. Figures 15 (g) and 15 (h) 
show the 25 μm2 AFM images of the as-grown sample and the NRELOG sample, respectively. 
These two samples were grown under the same growth conditions (the growth temperature, 
pressure, and V/III ratio were 1180 °C, 200 mbar, and 800–900, respectively). Compared with the 
as-grown sample, the NRELOG sample apparently had the superior surface quality and less 
surface pits, which are believed to be originated from the TD terminations with the surface [16]. 
Therefore, the less surface pits show the possibility of dislocation reduction. The rms roughness 
of the NRELOG sample was approximately 1.9 nm, which was smaller than that of the as-grown 
sample (nearly 4.1 nm). 
A high-resolution x-ray diffractometer (Bede D1) with a Cu target was employed to 
investigate the crystalline quality of GaN epilayers. All data are collected at 40 KV, 50 mA using 
a line focus x-ray source with 10 arcsec per step. The omega x-ray rocking curves (XRCs) 
on-axis (1120) and off-axis (1101) reflections for the as-grown (1.5/10 μm thickness) and 
NRELOG a-plane GaN samples were measured as shown in Figs. 16 (a) and (b), respectively. It 
revealed that the on- and off-axis full width at half maximum (FWHM) were narrowed with 
increasing layer thickness due to the inclination in bulk epitaxial GaN growth. Moreover, the 
XRC FWHMs of the NRELOG sample on-axis and off-axis reflections were further reduced 
from 903 to 430 arc sec and from 1821 to 1148 arc sec with respect to the as-grown sample with 
10 μm thickness. In comparison with the FWHMs of the as-grown and NRELOG samples grown 
to similar thickness, it is evident that the crystal quality of the a-plane GaN epilayer indeed could 
be improved with the NRELOG technique. On the basis of previous literature [22-23, 25-26] the 
on-axis FWHM value of NRELOG samples (430 arc sec) is even narrower than that of the SiNx 
nanomask LEO (900 arcsec)/ single-step ELOG sample (612 arcsec) and is comparable to that of 
 Fig. 16. X-ray rocking curves (a) on-axis (1120) reflections and (b) off-axis (1101) reflections for 
as-grown (1.5 / 10 μm) and NRELOG a-plane GaN films. 
 
Fig. 17. (a) Bright-field cross-sectional TEM image near (1100) zone axis of the NRELOG 
sample. Inset shows the corresponding electron diffraction pattern. The yellow dotted lines 
represent the contour of GaN nanorods. (b) The plan-view TEM image near (1120) zone axis of 
the NRELOG sample. 
(3) Characteristics of the a-plane GaN-based multiple quantum wells: 
In this part, we report on a well width dependent and a power dependent study of non-polar 
a-plane InGaN/GaN MQWs using PL and low temperature time-resolved PL measurements. 
Cathodoluminescence (CL) images and scanning micro-PL images show the surface emission 
regions of the samples, indicating the relation between well width and crystal quality of a-plane 
InGaN/GaN MQWs grown on r-plane sapphire. Figure 18 (a) shows the low temperature 
time-resolved PL decay for samples with different well width. Since the measurement was carried 
out at 15 K, the influence of the non-radiative recombination process could be excluded [28]. All 
experiment data was fitted by an exponential and a stretched exponential line shape I(t) = 
I1(0)exp(−t/τ1)+I2(0)exp[−(t/τ2)
β
], which has been used to analyze the emission characteristics of 
non-polar InGaN/GaN MQWs [4, 28]. The parameter I(t) means the PL intensity at time t, β is the 
dimensionality of the localizing centers, τ1 and τ2 are the initial lifetimes of carriers. The fast 
decay time (τ1 = 0.57-1.41 ns) represents the radiative recombination of free excitons and the 
relaxation of QW excitons from free or extended states towards localized states. The slow decay 
time (τ2 = 3.06-22.49 ns) accounts for communication between localized states and the radiative 
 Fig. 19. (a) Monochromatic top view CL images of different well width using optical filter at 
corresponding peak emission wavelength. (b) Top viewμ-PL image of different well width using 
optical filter at corresponding peak emission wavelength. 
In the other part, the optical properties of the a-plane InxGa1−xN/GaN MQWs on r-plane 
sapphire substrates with different indium compositions (x~9%, 14%, 24%, and 30% with well 
width of ~4.5 nm) have been investigated by means of PL, CL, and time resolved PL 
measurements. The influence of indium composition on luminescence efficiency in InGaN/GaN 
MQWs is discussed. The TRPL measurements at 15 K were performed to investigate the effects 
of indium compositions on the carrier recombination mechanism as shown in Fig. 20. The 
experimental data exhibit a nonexponential called stretched exponential decay shape, which is a 
characteristic of the emission from disorder quantum structures such as the localized states [29, 
30]. The TRPL results can be fitted by the stretched exponential decay shape, I(t) = 
I1(0)exp(−t/τ1)+I2(0)exp[−(t/τ2)
β
], where I(t) is the PL intensity at time t, β is the dimensionality 
of the localized centers, and τ1 andτ2 represent the initial lifetimes of the carriers. Normally, the 
fast decay term τ1 is used representτPL since the PL intensity is limited by the fast decay 
component, so we labeled all fitted τ1 near the curves.  
From Fig. 20, we found that the fitted lifetime of τ1 equals 418, 405, 391, and 289 ps in PL 
(lower energy emission) and 491, 457, 416, and 375 ps in PH (higher energy emission) for indium 
composition changing from 9% to 30%. It first shows that the PL peaks have shorter lifetime than 
PH peaks in all samples. The results of shorter lifetime of PL coincide with the stronger emission 
intensity than the PH showing in the inset of Fig. 20, since it corresponds to a higher 
recombination rate at low temperature. Therefore, it is reasonable to assign the PH and PL to 
MQWs-related and localized states emission, respectively. Second, the carrier lifetime of PL 
slightly decreased as indium composition is below 24%, but dropped from 391 to 289 ps as the 
indium composition increased from 24% to 30%. As expected, the integrated PL intensity is 
reversely proportional to the carrier lifetime as x is below 24%. However, contrary to our 
expectations, the PL intensity of the sample with 30% indium composition drops to about only 
1/5 compared to the luminescence intensity of the sample with 24% indium composition. It is 
known that the nonradiative lifetime is much shorter than radiative lifetime, so the appreciable 
reduction in lifetime and PL intensity revealed the fact of large number of nonradiative centers in 
 Fig. 21. Top view cathodoluminescence images of a-plane InGaN/GaN MQWs with different In 
compositions at corresponding dominate emission peak wavelengths. 
(4) Growth of a-plane GaN-based material alloys 
In this study, we reported the non-polar a-plane AlxGa1-xN alloys with different Al 
compositions ( 2.00  x ). The structures were grown by low-pressure metal organic chemical 
vapor deposition (MOCVD) system and the emission wavelengths from different AlxGa1-xN 
alloys cover the energy range from 3.42 eV to 3.87 eV with increasing the Al composition x. The 
relationship between the AlGaN growth rate and the molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) 
was investigated in this systematic study. Furthermore, the optical characteristics and surface 
morphology of the AlxGa1-xN alloys were discussed as well.  
The Al compositions x of the a-plane AlxGa1-xN alloys were estimated by performing the 
high-resolution X-ray diffraction ω/2θ scan. As can be seen in Fig 1, the Al composition x 
increases from 0 to 0.2 with increasing molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) from 0 to 0.44, 
and the Al composition increases with the molar flux ratio deviates from the linear relationship 
especially for high Al composition. Moreover, the Al incorporation efficiency in AlGaN alloys 
grown on r-plane sapphire substrates is relatively lower than that of the c-plane AlGaN layers 
grown on c-plane sapphire substrates when the molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) is the 
same [33, 34, 35], which could be due to the different adatom diffusivities on the different 
orientation sapphire substrate [36], or associated with the different lattice mismatches between 
AlGaN and GaN on the different orientation sapphire substrate. Higher growth temperature and 
optimal ratio of TMAl/TMGa may improve the Al incorporation efficiency of the a-plane AlGaN 
alloys with higher Al composition [37, 38]. Furthermore, the nearly linear relationship between 
the AlGaN growth rate and the molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) was observed [Fig. 22].  
Fig. 23(a) shows high-resolution X-ray diffraction ω/2θ scan for the a-plane AlxGa1-xN 
alloys, and the Al composition x was estimated by the XRD diffraction angle separation between 
In addition, a small number of cracks are observed along the [1100] m-axis of the a-plane 
Al0.2Ga0.8N, as shown in Fig. 26 (e), which might be due to the relaxation of the anisotropic 
in-plane tensile strain. Furthermore, as can be seen from the AFM images [Fig. 27], the surface 
morphology of Al0.07Ga0.93N (rms = 1.18 nm) is smoother than that of the GaN film (rms = 1.38 
nm), and it is rougher when the Al composition further increases. These results are consistent 
with the observation by SEM and optical microscope. In a word, the a-plane AlGaN alloy with 
relatively lower Al composition could show a flat surface with reduction of pits. 
The optical properties and crystal quality of the a-plane AlxGa1-xN alloys with the different 
Al compositions are measured by PL system at room temperature, as shown in Fig. 28 (a). The 
emission peak energy of the a-plane AlxGa1-xN alloy shifts from 3.42 to 3.87 eV when the Al 
composition increases from 0 to 20%. Then the bandgap bowing parameter (b) in AlxGa1-xN alloy 
was obtained to be 0.61 by fitting the experimental data using the Vegard’s Law: 
( ) (1 ) (1 )AlGaN GaN AlNg g gE x x E xE bx x     .            (1) 
Eg
(GaN)
 (3.42 eV) is the room-temperature energy bandgap determined from our sample and Eg
(AlN)
 
(6.15 eV) is taken from Ref. [42], as shown in Fig. 28 (b). This value locates within the reported 
range from 0.17 to 1.07 eV [43, 44, 45]. Moreover, the PL intensity and FWHM values as a 
function of Al composition are summarized in Fig. 28 (c). It is noteworthy that the PL emission 
peak intensity of the Al0.07Ga0.93N is lightly stronger than GaN sample. The PL intensity 
reduces and linewidth broadens with increasing Al composition from 7% to 20%, which due to 
the increase of nonradiative recombination process and alloy disorder, respectively. According to 
the measured results of the emission intensities and FWHM values, the optical property and 
crystal quality of the a-plane AlGaN alloy with relatively lower Al composition are probably 
better than other AlGaN and GaN samples. From the surface and optical measurements, the 
AlGaN alloy with Al composition 7 % reveals the slightly better surface morphology and optical 
properties, which could be due to the nearly isotropic in-plane strain [46]. 
 
Fig. 22. The relation between the growth rate (right-axis) and the Al composition x (left-axis) as 
the molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa). 
 Fig. 25. Top-view SEM images of a-plane AlxGa1-xN alloys (a) x = 0, (b) x = 0.07, (c) x = 0.10, (d) 
x =0.15, and (e) x = 0.20. 
 
Fig. 26. The surface morphology of a-plane AlxGa1-xN alloys measured by optical microscope, (a) 
x = 0, (b) x = 0.07, (c) x = 0.10, (d) x = 0.15, (e) x = 0.20. 
 
Fig. 27. The AFM images (33μ m2) of a-plane AlxGa1-xN alloys on r-plane sapphire, (a) x = 0, 
(b) x = 0.07, (c) x = 0.10, (d) x = 0.15, (e) x = 0.20. 
 
Fig. 28. (a) PL spectra for a-plane AlGaN alloys with different Al content measured at room 
temperature. (b) Band gap energies of a-plane AlxGa1-xN. (c) The relation between the PL 
intensities (left-axis) and the PL FWHM values (right-axis) as the Al composition x. 
Afterward, the optical polarization properties of a-plane AlxGa1-xN films have been 
investigated by polarization-dependent photoluminescence (PL). The degree of polarization 
decreased with increasing the Al composition, and the main optical polarization direction 
switched from     to     at about x = 0.07 due to the valence band switching, representing 
TE mode (y-polarized and z-polarized light) due to scattering projection. Since the light 
polarization is measured at the front of the growth direction with a collection angle of 8 degrees, 
the emission of each polarization component can be expressed as 
                              
  
 
                                  (1) 
                           
  
  
        
 
 
       
 
 
                    (2) 
                                                        
 
 
                                 (3) 
                                                                    
                                        (4) 
                                   
                                        (5) 
where the   ,   , and    are the projections of x-polarized, y-polarized, and z-polarized light 
emitted along the growth direction, respectively. The   
  and   
 
 represent the intensity of the 
y-polarized and z-polarized light for the growth direction.  
Fig. 29 (b) shows the calculated spontaneous emission spectra of the a-plane AlxGa1-xN 
films. Note that the intensities of each case have been normalized because we emphasize the 
relative intensity of two polarized light and the peak energy. Since the topmost state of the 
a-plane AlxGa1-xN is     -like state, the measured light at the growth direction (x-direction) is 
mainly contributed by the recombination of the second and third bands. Moreover, the energy 
separation between the second and third bands increases as the Al composition increases, while 
the second band is getting dominated by      state and the third band is getting dominated by 
     state. Therefore, the intensity of z-polarized light       increases as the Al composition 
increases, which have a good agreement with the experimental results. The DOP and    of the 
simulated a-plane AlxGa1-xN films with different x are also listed in Table 1 for comparison. It is 
worth noting that the emission spectra of y-polarized light       and z-polarized light    
   would be partly affected by the projection of the x-polarized light, originated from the optical 
transition from the conduction band to the      band as shown in Fig. 32. For the low Al 
composition case, the predominant optical transitions are contributed by the two topmost      
and      bands, comprising the main polarized emission along       direction. On the other 
hand, for the higher Al composition case, the fractional contribution from the      band 
combining with that from the      bands constitutes the weaker PL emission along       
with a smaller peak energy shown in Fig. 32 (a). As a result, the spectrum shows the abnormal 
behavior that the stronger PL emission along       belongs to a higher peak energy shown in 
Fig. 32 (b).  
 Fig. 31. The valence band energy dispersion relation under anisotropic tensile strained condition 
of the a-plane AlxGa1-xN films (a) x = 0.07 and (b) x = 0.28. 
 
Fig. 32. (a) and (b) are the schematic illustrations of the influence of      to the y-polarized light 
and z-polarized light, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finally, the non-polar a-plane AlxGa1−xN alloys with different Al composition have been 
grown by MOCVD system. The relationship between the AlGaN growth rate and the molar flux 
ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) was investigated in this systematic study. Besides, the optical 
characteristics and surface morphology of the AlxGa xN alloys were discussed as well. When 
increasing the molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) from 0 to 0.44, the Al compositions of 
the a-plane AlxGa xN alloys are estimated to vary from 0 to 20% according to the XRD results. 
AlGaN layer is found to be coherently strained to the GaN template by analysing the (1122) and 
(0220) asymmetric XRD reciprocal space mappings (RSM). The smoothest surface with the RMS 
roughness of 1.18 nm, strongest PL emission intensity and narrowest PL linewidth are observed 
in the Al0.07Ga0.93N film. In addition, bowing value of b = 0.61 in the optical bandgap of a-plane 
AlxGa xN is obtained. Furthermore, the DOP decreases with increasing Al composition x. A 
distinct optical polarization switch is observed between x=0.07 to x=0.1 due to the valence band 
switching. In addition, we applied the     method with the lambertian-like emission pattern to 
obtain the E-k dispersion relation and the wave functions of the a-plane AlxGa1-xN layer. Base on 
this model, the calculation of the spontaneous emission spectra have a good agreement with the 
experimental results and the abnormal polarization switching phenomenon is explained. The 
relationship between optical and structural characteristics of a-plane AlGaN alloys presented here 
shall be beneficial to the growth and design UV and deep UV optoelectronic devices. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Su, and M. Asif Khan, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 42, L640 (2003). 
[26] B. A. Haskell, F. Wu, M. D. Craven, S. Matsuda, P. T. Fini, T. Fujii, K. Fujito, S. P. 
DenBaars, J. S. Speck, and S. Nakamura, Appl. Phys. Lett. 83, 644 (2003). 
[27] S. C. Ling, C. L. Chao, J. R. Chen, P. C. Liu, T. S. Ko, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang, S. J. 
Cheng, and J. D. Tsay, J. Cryst. Growth 312, 1316 (2010). 
[28] T. Onuma, A. Chakraborty, B. A.Haskell, S. Keller, S. P. DenBaars, J. S. Speck, S. 
Nakamura, U. K. Mishra, Appl. Phys. Lett., 86,151918, (2005). 
[29] X. Chen, B. Henderson, and K. P. O’Donnell, Appl. Phys. Lett. 60, 2672 (1992). 
[30] T. Onuma, T. Koyama, A. Chakraborty, M. Mclaurin, B. A. Haskell, P. T. Fini, S. Keller, S. 
P. DenBaars, J. S. Speck, S. Nakamura, U. K. Mishra, T. Sota, and S. F. Chichibu, J. Vac. 
Sci. Technol. B 25, 1524 (2007). 
[31] S. F. Chichibu, T. Onuma, T. Aoyama, K. Nakajima, P. Ahmet, T. Chikyow, T. Sota, S. P. 
DenBaars, S. Nakamura, T. Kitamura, Y. Ishida, and H. Okumura, J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 
21, 1856 (2003). 
[32] P. Waltereit, O. Brandt, M. Ramsteiner, A. Trampert, H. T. Grahn, J. Menniger, M. Reiche, 
and K. H. Ploog, J. Cryst. Growth 227–228, 437 (2001). 
[33] T.S. Ko, T.C. Wang, H.M. Huang, J.R. Chen, H.G. Chen, C.P. Chu, T.C. Lu , H.C. Kuo, and 
S.C. Wang, J. Cryst. Growth, 310 4972 (2008). 
[34] B. Liu, R. Zhang, Z.L. Xie, Q.J. Liu, Z. Zhang, Y. Li, X.Q. Xiu, J. Yao, Q. Mei, H. Zhao, P. 
Han, H. Lu, P. Chen, S.L. Gu, Y. Shi, Y.D. Zheng, W.Y. Cheung, N. Ke, and J.B. Xu, J. Cryst. 
Growth, 310 4499 (2008). 
[35] G. S. Huang, H. H. Yao, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, and S. C. Wang, J. Appl. Phys. 99 
104901-104911 (2006). 
[36] H. Zhou, S. J. Chua, and C. Peng, J. Cryst. Growth, 292 5 (2006). 
[37] D. B. Li, M. Aoki, T. Katsuno, H. Miyake, K. Hiramatsu, and T. Shibata, J. Cryst. Growth 
298 372 (2007). 
[38] N. Okada, N. Fujimoto, T. Kitano, G. Narita, M. Imura, K. Balakrishnan, M. Iwaya, S. 
Kamiyama, H. Amano, I. Akasaki, K. Shimono, T. Noro, T. Takagi and A. Bandoh, Jap. J. 
Appl. Phys. 45 2502 (2006). 
[39] M. Tsuda, H. Furukawa, A. Honshio, M. Iwaya, S. Kamiyama, H. Amano, and I. Akasaki, 
Jap. J. Appl. Phys. 45 2509 (2006). 
[40] Z. Chen, Y. Pei, S. Newman, D. Brown, R. Chung, S. Keller, S. P. DenBaars, S. Nakamura, 
and U. K. Mishra, Appl. Phys. Lett. 94 171117 (2009). 
[41] P. P. Paskov, R. Schifano, B. Monemar, T. Paskova, S. Figge, and D. Hommel, J. Appl. Phys. 
98 093519 (2005). 
[42] Y. Danylyuk, S. Perooly, M. Rahman, and G. Auner, phys. stat. sol. (c) 2, No.7, 2228 (2005).  
[43] S. R. Lee, A. F. Wright, M. H. Crawford, G. A. Petersen, J. Han, and R. M. Biefeld, Appl. 
Phys. Lett. 74 3344 (1999). 
[44] H. Jiang, G. Y. Zhao, H. Ishikawa, T. Egawa, and T. Jimbo, J. Appl. Phys. 89 (2001) 1046.  
[45] Q.S. Paduano, D.W. Weyburne, L.O. Bouthillette, S. Q. Wang , and M.N. Alexander, Jap. J. 
Appl. Phys. 41 1936 (2002). 
[46] J. L. Hollander, M. J. Kappers, C. McAleese, and C. J. Humphreys, Appl. Phys. Lett. 92 
101104 (2008). 
該計畫已有論文發表如下: 
[1] Te-Chung Wang, Tien-Chang Lu, Tsung-Shine Ko, Hao-Chung Kuo, Hou-Guang Chen, Min 
Yu, Chang-Cheng Chuo, Zheng-Hong Lee, Sing-Chung Wang, “Trenched Epitaxial Lateral 
Overgrowth of Fast Coalesced a-plane GaN with Low Dislocation Density”, Applied Physics 
Letters, 89, 251109-251111 (2006). 
[2] T. S. Ko, T. C. Wang, H. G.. Chen, R. C. Gao, Y. J. Lee, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang, 
“InGaN/GaN nanostripe grown on pattern sapphire by metal organic chemical vapor 
deposition”, Applied Physics Letters, 90, 013110-013112 (2007) 
[3] T. S. Ko, T. C. Wang, R. C. Gao, H. G. Chen, G. S. Huang, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang, 
“Study on optimal growth condition of a-plane GaN grown on r-plane sapphire by 
metal-organic chemical vapor deposition”, Journal of Crystal Growth, 300, 308-313 (2007). 
[4] T. S. Ko, T. C. Lu, T. C. Wang, M. H. Lo, J. R. Chen, R. C. Gao, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang and 
S. L. Shen, “Optical characteristics of a-plane InGaN/GaN multiple quantum wells with 
different well widths”, Applied Physics Letters, 90, 181122-181124 (2007) and was selected 
in Virtual Journal of Ultrafast Science, Volume 6, Issue 6 (2007). 
[5] T. S. Ko, T. C. Wang, H. G. Chen, R. C. Gao, G. S. Huang, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang, 
“Observations on surface morphologies and dislocations of a-plane GaN grown by metal 
organic chemical vapor deposition”, physica status solidi (c), V4, No. 7, 2510-2514, (2007). 
[6] Te-Chung Wang, Tien-Chang Lu, Tsung-Shine Ko, Hao-Chung Kuo, Hou-Guang Chen, Min 
Yu, Chang-Cheng Chuo, Zheng-Hong Lee, and Sing-Chung Wang, “Material and optical 
properties of Trenched Epitaxial Lateral Overgrowth of a-plane GaN”, physica status solidi 
(c), V4, No. 7, 2519-2513 (2007). 
[7] Hou-Guang Chen, Tsung-Shine Ko, Shih-Chun Ling, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo, 
Shing-Chung Wang, Yue-Han Wu, Li Chang, “Dislocation reduction in GaN grown on stripe 
patterned r-plane sapphire substrates”, Applied Physics Letters, 91, 021914-021916, (2007). 
[8] S. -L. Wang, B. -C. Yeh, H. -M. Wu, L. -H. Peng, C. -M. Lai, T. -S. Ko, T. -C. Lu, S. -C. 
Wang, A. -H. Kung, “Optical properties of a-plane GaN strained by photo- chemically grown 
gallium hydroxide”, physica status solidi (c), V5, No. 6, 1780-1782 (2008). 
[9] Te-Chung Wang, Tsung-Shine Ko, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo, Run-Ci Gao, Jenq-Dar 
Tsay, and Sing-Chung Wang, “Internal quantum efficiency behavior of a-plane and c-plane 
InGaN / GaN multiple quantum well with different indium compositions”, physica status 
solidi (c), V5, No. 6, 2161-2163 (2008). 
[10] Hou-Guang Chen, Tsung-Shine Ko, Li Chang, Yue-Han Wu, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung 
Kuo, Shing-Chung Wang, “Investigation on microstructure in GaN epitaxial growth on the 
stripe patterned r-plane sapphire substrates”, Journal of Crystal Growth, 310, 1627-1631 
(2008). 
[11] Shih-Chun Ling, Te-Chung Wang, Tsung-Shine Ko, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo and 
Shing-Chung Wang, “Characteristics of ultraviolet nonpolar InGaN/GaN light-emitting 
diodes using trench epitaxial lateral overgrowth technology”, Journal of Crystal Growth, , 
310, 2330-2333 (2008). 
[12] Shih-Chun Ling, Te-Chung Wang, Jun-Rong Chen, Po-Chun Liu, Tsung-Shine 
Ko,Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo, Shing-Chung Wang, and Jenq-Dar Tsay, “Performance 
本計畫期中報告結果自評 
    本計畫執行的三年間，在非極性氮化鎵薄膜材料之磊晶技術提升以及晶體品質改善方
面有顯著的成果, 並發表多篇論文於SCI 期刊上。其中，第一年已達成高品質非極性a平面
氮化鎵磊晶技術，並了解不同成長參數對表面及薄膜品質的影響；對於改善晶體品質以及
降低晶體缺陷的研究上，我們先後提出氮化矽嵌入層的概念以及導入側向磊晶成長的技術，
亦成功的改善氮化鎵磊晶薄膜品質，缺陷密度也由1×1010有大幅的降低至1×108 cm−2。同時，
我們亦成功地成長不同井深以及不同銦含量之氮化銦鎵/氮化鎵之量子井結構於平整之氮
化鎵薄膜上，並探討不同井深以及不同銦含量對結構上及光性上的影響。目前，我們亦成
功地成長不同濃度之氮化鋁鎵紫外光波段薄膜，並已對於其基本的光學及結構特性加以探
討，我們將針對紫外光波段的氮化鋁鎵薄膜及其量子井結構之內部應力與晶體成長相互影
響的情形加以研究釐清，以提升長晶品質以及優化樣品結構。最終，將整合這幾年的研究
成果，對於藍光、紫外光以及綠光波段的非極性LED 的操作效率提升。  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  █ 可技術移轉                                      日期：  年  月  日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：成長於非極化氮化鎵之寬能隙材料及光電元件研究：子
計劃一 非極性氮化鎵半導體材料元件磊晶成長 
計畫主持人：王興宗        
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E009－094－MY3 學門領域：光電工程
學門 
技術/創作名稱 非極性氮化鎵磊晶成長技術 
發明人/創作人 柯宗憲、凌碩均、黃煇閔、盧廷昌、郭浩中、王興宗 
技術說明 
中文：利用有機金屬化學氣相磊晶系統成長不同鋁含量之非極性 
a-平面氮化鋁鎵薄膜，藉由實驗證明在低鋁含量( 7% )下，可以成 
長出平整的表面，RMS 值為1.18 nm 之氮化鋁鎵薄膜。藉由光致激 
發光譜的結果，我們也發現當鋁含量為7%時有較佳的發光強度以 
及較窄的光譜半高寬，其發光特性更優於在同一條件下所成的氮化 
鎵薄膜，由此推論，在氮化鎵薄膜成長中加入微量鋁原子，也許可 
以藉由鋁原子提升鎵原子的遷移改善薄膜表面的平整；或者，氮化 
鎵成長過程中所形成的缺陷可藉由微量的鋁原子進行填補。 
英文：The non-polar a-plane AlxGa1−xN alloys on GaN epitaxial layer 
with different Al compositions were grown on r-plane (1102) sapphire 
substrates by using low-pressure metal organic chemical vapor 
deposition (MOCVD) The optical properties for were investigated by 
photoluminescence spectroscopy and the results revealed that the PL 
peak position shifted from 3.42 eV to 3.87 eV with 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.2 . Apart 
from the shifted peak position with increasing Al content, it was also 
found that the PL emission intensity and surface morphology of the 
a-plane AlGaN alloy with relatively low Al content show better 
characteristic than that of the a-plane GaN and AlGaN with higher Al 
composition. We supposed that the enhancement of Ga migration or 
partially defects filled by the slight Al atom possibly result in the 
improvement of optical quality and surface morphology. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可用於非極性發光二極體和雷射等照明設備工業。發光波段可含蓋
紫外光至綠光。 
技術特點 
本計劃結果在磊晶成長可應用，利用低鋁含量之氮化鋁鎵薄膜具有 
較好的表面平整度的特性，若在磊晶過程中，將低鋁含量之氮化鋁 
鎵薄膜做為磊晶結構中緩衝層使用，可提升結構的晶體品質。 
推廣及運用的價值 
非極性氮化鎵發光元件未來可廣泛應用於光電產業。 
 
 1 
                                                          2010年 06月 15日 
報告人姓名 盧廷昌 
申請單位 
（學生請加註系級） 
光電系 
職稱 副教授 
電話 5131234 
出國目的/發表
論文題目 
1. 發表論文 
2. 論文發表題目:  
[1] Shih-Wei Chen, Tien-Chang Lu*, Yun-Ju Hou, Ting-Chun Liu, Hao-Chung 
Kuo, and Shing-Chung Wang, “Angular-resolved Lasing Characteristics at 
Different Band Edges in GaN Photonic Crystal Surface Emitting Lasers,” 
CLEO 2010, San Jose, USA, May 16-21, 2010 (Oral) 
[2] Chao-Hsun Wang, Ching-Hua Chiu, Jun-Rong Chen, Hao-Chung Kuo, 
Tien-Chang Lu, Shing-Chung Wang, “Investigation of Efficiency Droop in 
Blue InGaN/GaN Light-Emitting Diodes with Different Well Widths,” CLEO 
2010, San Jose, USA, May 16-21, 2010 (Oral) 
[3] Shih-Chun Ling, Shih-Pang Chang, Tien-Chang Lu*, Hao-Chung Kuo, and 
Shing-Chung Wang, “Characterization of a-plane green light-emitting diodes 
using nanorod lateral overgrowth,” CLEO 2010, San Jose, USA, May 16-21, 
2010 
[4] Jun-Rong Chen, Tien-Chang Lu*, Yung-Chi Wu, Shiang-Chi Lin, Wei-Rein 
Liu, Wen-Feng Hsieh, Chien-Cheng Kuo, Cheng-Chung Lee, Hao-Chung 
Kuo, and Shing-Chung Wang, “Observation of Polariton Dispersions for 
ZnO Microcavities in Strong Couple Regime,” CLEO 2010, San Jose, USA, 
May 16-21, 2010 
[5] Chao-Hsun Wang, Ching-Hua Chiu, Chih-Chun Ke, Hao-Chung Kuo, 
Tien-Chang Lu, Shing-Chung Wang, “Internal Quantum Efficiency 
Measurement in InGaN/GaN UV LEDs with Patterned Sapphire Substrate by 
Photoluminescence and Electroluminescence Method,” CLEO 2010, San 
Jose, USA, May 16-21, 2010 
補助金額  
經費來源 
（校內會計編號） 
 
 3 
我搭乘 5/15 從桃園機場出發到舊金山的長榮班機，抵達 San Jose 會場附近的旅館已經是 5/15
傍晚了，第二天 5/16 下午，我參加了 LaserFest 的演講，慶祝 50 年前的同一天，Maiman 在
實驗室中親眼看到雷射光並紀錄下它的特性。會中請到了許多諾貝爾獎得主和雷射先驅，儘
管他們年紀都已八九十歲，但是眼中對雷射技術的熱情不減，讓人印象深刻!5/17 和 5/18 為
幾場我們實驗室的演講，以下列出我所報告的論文內容: 
Observation of Polariton Dispersions for ZnO Microcavities in Strong Couple Regime 
Jun-Rong Chen, Tien-Chang Lu*, Yung-Chi Wu, Shiang-Chi Lin, Wei-Rein Liu, Wen-Feng 
Hsieh, Chien-Cheng Kuo, Cheng-Chung Lee, Hao-Chung Kuo, and Shing-Chung Wang, 
內容摘要如下: 
Semiconductor microcavities (MC’s) have been intensely investigated in recent years due to their 
potential to change the nature of light-matter interaction. In these structures, vertical confinement 
of excitons and photons permits the controllable exciton-photon coupling within the micrometer 
scale cavity. When the light-matter coupling is larger than the decay rates of exciton and photons, a 
new half-matter half-light quasi-particle will be created and generally termed cavity polaritons 
which have the bosonic character and extremely light in-plane effective mass (typically 10
4
 times 
lower than excitons). Wide-band gap ZnO semiconductors are attractive materials for the 
investigation of microcavity exciton polaritons due to the large exciton binding energy and 
oscillator strength. We report the growth and characterization of bulk ZnO-based hybrid 
microcavity. The phenomenon of strong exciton-photon coupling at room temperature (RT) has 
been observed in the ZnO-based hybrid microcavity structure, which consists of 30 pair epitaxially 
grown AlN/AlGaN distributed Bragg reflector DBR on the bottom side of the 3/2λ thick ZnO 
cavity and 9 pair SiO2/HfO2 DBR as the top mirror. The cavity quality factor is about 221. By 
performing angle-resolved reflectivity measurements, we can observe the cavity-polaritons in 
ZnO-based hybrid microcavities at RT, and the vacuum Rabi-splitting value is estimated to be 
about 68 meV by means of the transfer matrix simulation. Furthermore, the upper polariton branch 
(UPB) is damped by exciton scattering states causing the UPB broadening considerably, and the 
simulations results demonstrate that this physical mechanism impacts on the ZnO-based MC 
polariton system exactly. By performing angle-resolved PL measurements, we can further observe 
the bottleneck effect for large negative detuning even at RT. This consequence may originate from 
the states with very high photon fractions in the low angle region. The dispersion curves based on 
angle-resolved reflectivity and PL measurements show obvious characteristics of strong 
exciton-photon coupling. Theoretically calculated exciton-polariton dispersion curves are in good 
agreement with the measured results. 
 
在會場有好幾位研究學者對我們的成果感到興趣，並有許多先進向我詢問了一些問題,我們
與他們解釋並討論一些我發現的現象。有幾位認為我們做的工作很有趣,也認為很有學術價
 5 
校園以及 Ginzton實驗室！ 
 
 
大會的會場位於 San Jose的 McEnery Convention Center 舉行 
 
 
諾貝爾獎得主 C. Townes 的演講 
 
 7 
 
Dr. Maiman在操作紅寶石雷射時所作的筆記，1960年代的資料彌足珍貴! 
 
 
 
 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者，或前已敘述者可省略此項) 
到 Intel以及 Stanford 參觀，細節如前所述。 
 
 
四、建議 
CLEO 是國際上最重要的光電與雷射相關的會議，其論文接受率只有一半不到，CLEO現在改
到 San Jose與 Baltimore 舉辦，世界上相關的研究人員都會來這裡發表他們最新的成果，
而且這些成果也大多會刊登到 Impact factor相當高的頂尖國際期刊上；另外，San Jose是
美國矽谷的所在地，其生活水準與物價消費非常高，可以和美國一線大城市相提並論，然而
根據中央頒布的出差旅費的評定，San Jose不在美國一線大城市，其生活費的補助讓國內的
研究學者常常無法負擔出國到 San Jose昂貴的旅費，在此建議能夠對出差到 San Jose的旅
費補助能符合其高消費水帄之合理水準。 
 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
參加此次會議收集到相當多相關資料，將有助於回國後計畫推動與研究論文參考，茲將攜回
資料列舉如下：會議照片、2010 CLEO的論文摘要刊載此次研討會參與發表的論文摘要以及
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
