 order to let the results of using control chart 
for inventory management be more objec-
tive and meet the practices better and to let a 
close correlation existed between inventory 
level and customer’s demand, it can be seen 
that if the correlated nature did exist for 
customer’s demand, customer’s demand will 
show a gradual increase or decrease with 
time or season (hot or cold season factor), 
which will have correlated influence on the 
inventory level, and the customer’s order on 
the product of an enterprise will be affected 
accordingly; therefore, these cause and ef-
fect relationship should not be neglected by 
the management personnel. In the past, the 
making of inventory strategies usually has 
emphasis on the decision of purchase quan-
tity and purchase point.  
Another important factor that affects 
the inventory level is lead time, which is the 
time interval from the decision of the 
placement of an order to the issuance of a 
purchase order and to the time when the 
product can satisfy customer’s need. In the 
past literature regarding the investigation of 
inventory model, lead time is usually treated 
as random variable that obeys all kinds of 
distributions or as given constant. However, 
Pfohl et al. (1999), Chan (2000) and Lin and 
Koo (2003), and Lin and Koo (2004) et al. 
only performed monitoring on status when 
“market demand” is of stable state and 
product lead time is of constant, they do not 
perform monitoring on situation when 
“market demand” is variable and lead time 
is also variable; however, Lin and Koo 
(2005) had made improvement on this 
drawback, MCEWMA control chart is used 
by them as control tool of inventory man-
agement to investigate respectively whether 
the data of inventory management are inde-
pendent or correlated on status when “mar-
ket demand” is of stable status and when 
“market demand” is of variable status; fur-
thermore, lead time is included in the vari-
able inventory model and appropriate con-
trol limit is constructed through the use of 
the statistical testing principle of such con-
trol chart; it is then used to detect abnormal 
inventory, demand and lead time and to cor-
rect inventory strategy in appropriate time.  
Most of the past researches only aimed 
at the study of the applicability of one type 
of control chart and the inventory manage-
ment models investigated are mostly of sim-
ple forms; therefore, in this study, multiple 
models of control charts and the inventory 
model of fixed lead time are investigated; 
under the “market demand” of the four 
stages of product life cycle and aiming at the 
independent nature or correlated nature of 
the required data, different control charts 
under different inventory management mod-
els are used to cope with the unusual varia-
tion of “market demand”; finally, the best 
fitted control tools among different inven-
tory management models are induced to be 
used conveniently and quickly by the com-
pany in the inventory management field. 
Practically, lead time is randomly changed 
and there are so many factors that might af-
fect lead time; therefore, take the variable 
nature of lead time into account will make 
the system approaches practice better. In 
addition, the past researches only used cus-
tomer’s demand and inventory data as ref-
erence for inventory management, practi-
cally, purchase and warehousing cost per-
formances are not taken into account yet; 
subsequent researches should take these 
factors into account to let the feasibility 
evaluation of constructed SPC inventory 
management system more extensive. 
 
2. Literature review 
The related domestic researches in recent years for the application of control chart in in-
ventory management are summarized as in the following table:  
 Takahashi 
(2003) 
EWMA con-
trol chart 
The inventory management of JIT (just-in-time) production 
control system is monitored. Control chart is used to moni-
tor correlated data and to detect unstable demand; the num-
ber of Kanbans and the size of buffer are used for the per-
formance evaluation.  
 
3. Model construction  
The main objective of this study is the 
development of just-in-time inventory man-
agement system. When each demand (pur-
chase order) comes, inventory management 
system should be handled, and all kinds of 
control charts applicable to the inventory 
management system should be used to 
monitor if there are any abnormal situations 
in the inventory and demand quantity of the 
right term; if the inventory quantity of the 
right term is abnormal, then the purchase 
quantity should be adjusted according to 
lead time and the decision-making principles 
made by this article in order to avoid the 
generation of stock-out or over inventory in 
the next term. Next, many control charts are 
used as control tools for this study to moni-
tor the demand; if the demand is found to be 
abnormal, the demand decision-making 
principle as prepared by this article is used 
to adjust purchase quantity of the right term 
immediately so as to avoid the generation of 
stock-out or excessive inventory in the next 
term.  
The main objective of this study is the 
development of just-in-time inventory man-
agement system. When each demand (pur-
chase order) comes, inventory management 
system should be handled. Watts et al. (1994) 
had proposed SPC inventory management 
system, during the collection of data, there is 
only one observation point at the same time 
point, hence, individual value, that is, X 
control chart, is adopted as control tool for 
identifying the data variation. In this study, 
within fixed interval of time, inventory will 
be checked once; therefore, at each of the 
time point of data collection, only one data 
can be collected each time; therefore, under 
such limitations, this study is going to adopt 
statistical process control tool and control 
chart that monitors single observation value 
to construct new inventory management 
system. In this study, single observation 
control charts such as the commonly seen 
cumulative sum control chart and index 
weighted average control chart are going to 
be used first for the descriptions. In the fu-
ture, other single observation value control 
charts will be collected, for example, adap-
tive single observation value control chart 
(variable sample, variable sampling interval 
and variable control parameters). Moreover, 
mean inventory, frequency of stock-out, 
cumulative stock-out quantity and service 
level will be used as the evaluation indexes.  
4. Conclusions 
In this study, a high service level and 
low cost inventory management model is to 
be developed, and many different control 
charts are going to be used to monitor the 
market demand. Meanwhile, single observa-
tion value control chart is used to monitor 
the inventory consumption situation; when 
market demand or inventory is abnormal, 
alarm should be issued, and the inventory 
management principles proposed by this 
study should be proposed, and in-time ad-
justment of purchase point, purchase quan-
tity and safety inventory should be done so 
as to avoid stock-out or excessive inventory 
status. The result of this study can be in-
duced as: single observation control charts 
such as cumulative sum control chart and 
index weighted average control chart are 
used respectively to monitor the demand and 
inventory; moreover, indexes such as mean 
inventory, frequency of stock-out, cumula-
tive stock-out and service level are com-
