中文摘要 
 
本計劃的目標在於使用連續波雷射結晶法開發高均勻及高載子移動率低溫複晶矽薄膜
電晶體元件之相關製程模組，傳統的 ELA 製程面臨著一些極待解決的問題：如製程操作範
圍狹窄、均勻性差和低產率等問題。現今的研究也正積極的朝向改進這方面的缺點而努力。
而我們在計畫中亦將解決這方面問題列為重點之一，採取的方法則為新穎的結晶方式-連續
波雷射結晶法，連續波雷射不儘擁有較佳輸出穩定性，直接利用控制掃瞄速度及掃瞄功率
來達成晶粒橫向成長。因為具有晶粒方向的控制，因此可改善薄膜電晶體元件電特性的不
均勻性;由於連續波雷射結晶法可以得到一維方向性有序性長條形的晶粒，晶粒大小可達
15um 的長度可以製作出來而不損傷到玻璃基板，而實驗結果亦顯示矽薄膜具有極佳的結晶
性，同時其晶粒邊界位置的表面粗糙度極為平順。利用連續波雷射結晶法製作的低溫多晶
矽薄膜電晶體擁有優異的電特性，例如較高的電子移動率（n 通道的其載子移動率可達
504cm2/V-s，而 p 通道的為 220cm2/V-s）及較高的開關電流比。另外，我們也探討了利用
連續波雷射在摻雜活化的退火特性，其由四點探針分析可得一片電阻低於 50 Ω/□，同時
由二次離子質譜分析儀得到一均勻分佈的摻雜雜質，因此連續波雷射退火法是一個低熱預
算和高效率的活化方法。同時連續波雷射結晶機制也一併提出。由於連續波雷射結晶法製
作大晶粒流程十分簡單，因此使用連續波結晶法製作的低溫多晶矽薄膜電晶體的亦極適合
於未來系統面板及 3度空間積體電路的應用。 
關鍵詞：連續波雷射結晶、高載子移動率、高均勻性、低溫複晶矽薄膜電晶體、離子活化 
 
 
 2
 1 Introduction 
 
Low-temperature polycrystalline silicon (LTPS) technology has been the most promising method to 
manufacture high performance thin film transistors (TFTs) for the past decades [1] – [3]. As 
compared to conventional a-Si TFTs, LTPS TFTs using excimer laser crystallization (ELC) 
technology have been promise to integrate display driver circuits on glass substrates such as 
integrated ambient light sensing, memory in pixel, integrated touch, ultra-low power display driving, 
advanced active matrix liquid crystal displays (AMLCDs) driving, and advanced active matrix 
organic light emitting displays (AMOLEDs) driving. The demands for thin, light-weight, compact, 
and high resolution displays are getting stronger in the mobile applications. Integrating large scale 
circuits in small area and reducing power consumption both are requisite features for mobile 
applications with high resolution or more functional LCDs [4]. In addition, as the mobility of 
poly-Si TFT is approaching that of single crystalline silicon, it is possible to realize system-on-panel 
(SOP) application which build an integrated drive circuit, sensors, controller IC, CPU as well as 
display on glass [5]. In order to achieve such features, short channel length of TFTs and precise 
control of analog circuits are required. However, the current conventional ELC LTPS technology 
can not meet the requirements owing to the large variation in electrical characteristics caused by 
grain boundaries in the channel regions. Although high-performance ELC LTPS TFTs with mobility 
exceeding 200 cm2/Vs can be fabricated by optimizing the applied laser energy density and 
increasing the shot density per area, ELC LTPS TFTs suffer from poor uniformity of device 
performance due to the narrow laser process window for producing large-grain poly-Si. The 
fluctuation of pulse-to-pulse laser energy density, non-uniform laser beam profile, and 
non-uniformity of a-Si thin film thickness make laser energy density hard to hit the super lateral 
growth (SLG) regime everywhere [6] – [7]. Non-uniform and randomly distributed poly-Si grains 
 4
require low sheet resistance and low defect density in drain junction. As a result, the implanted 
dopants in source and drain regions must be activated to a high degree. The energetic dopant ions 
cause significant damage to the silicon crystal structure near the surface regions during ion doping 
process. Activation is a thermal heating process to repair the lattice damaged regions into 
single-crystal structure and to activate the dopants. In ULSI silicon semiconductor processing, 
activation was performed by either a furnace anneal or rapid thermal processing (RTP). However, 
both these steps require temperatures well beyond the strain point of glass. In laser activation, the 
silicon was heated, melted and reformed without heating the glass, resulting in very high efficiency 
activation with low thermal budget. But the activation technology using CW laser was rarely 
studied. We will also investigate the dopant activation by CW laser annealing in this chapter. A 
comparison of the efficiency of dopant activation among various activation methods is studied in 
detail. The material properties of boron-doped poly-Si thin films by CW laser activation are 
analyzed by four point probe measurement system and secondary ion mass spectrometer (SIMS). 
In this chapter, a novel and simple crystallization method to control lateral grain growth using 
frequency doubled DPSS continuous-wave laser irradiation is proposed. At first, the experimental 
procedures and CW laser system setup are described in detail. Then, the CW laser-crystallized 
poly-Si thin film was analyzed by several material analyses, including SEM, Raman spectra, AFM, 
TEM, XRD, EBSD, and the factors that affected the final lateral crystallization microstructure were 
also investigated, including, laser scanning speed, laser power, and the ambient. The experimental 
details of dopant activation are also discussed. Finally, CW laser crystallization mechanism of a-Si 
films and the results of crystallized poly-Si thin films and LTPS TFT performance are presented and 
analyzed, demonstrating the performance and uniformity enhancement achieved using the new 
crystallization method. 
 
2 Experiments 
 6
 3 Results and Discussion 
 
The principle setup of continuous-wave laser crystallization apparatus is shown in Figure 2. 
The heart of the experiment is the diode-pumped solid-state Nd:YVO4 continuous-wave laser, 
operating at the wavelength of 532 nm. The laser can achieve a maximum peak output power ~ 18 
watt and the sample can move with a maximum speed of 100 cm/s. 
Figure 3 shows the sheet resistance of samples after excimer laser activation by four-point 
probe system. The energy fluence of excimer laser was varied from 190mJ/cm2 to 390mJ/cm2. As 
expected, the higher energy density, the lower sheet resistance was achieved. It was attributed that 
there were more heat and longer activation time in the doped a-Si thin films at higher energy 
density. Since more implanted atoms were aligned into the correct lattice sites and the damaged 
lattice regions were recovered into single-crystal structure, the sheet resistance could be lower.  
Figure 4 and Figure 5 show the sheet resistance of samples after CW laser activation with laser 
power of 10 W and 15W by four-point probe system, respectively. According to the Figure 4, the 
slower CW laser scanning speed, the lower sheet resistance was attained attributed to the longer 
annealing time, especially in the low ion implantation dosage. Figure 5 displays similar results and 
the CW laser-annealed polycrystalline silicon films with a low sheet resistance of 50 Ω/□, which 
is suitable to form ohmic contacts between silicon and metal. The sheet resistances of samples after 
furnace annealing, rapid thermal annealing, CW laser, and excimer laser activation were 
summarized in Table II. Figure 6 shows the redistribution profiles of boron atoms after CW laser 
annealing. Dopant profiles in the polycrystalline silicon thin films after CW laser were redistributed 
as uniformly as that of excimer laser ones. Therefore, CW laser activation was a low 
thermal-budget and high efficiency method.  
Figure 7 (a) shows a SEM picture of continuous-wave laser crystallized poly-Si with laser 
 8
crystallinity due to highest Raman peak intensity and the narrowest FWHM, which is consistent 
with SEM images. Figure 10 display the dependence of Raman peak intensity of the crystallized 
poly-Si thin films on different crystallization methods. Poly-Si grains fabricated by 
continuous-wave laser crystallization show better crystallinity than those of excimer laser 
crystallization. Because the duration of continuous-wave crystallization is longer than that of 
Excimer laser crystallization, the larger grains form due to longer time for grain growth by CW laser. 
And the thermal stress of poly-Si thin films crystallized by cw laser is larger than that by ELA due 
to its long melting duration.    
The crystallinity and the preferential orientation of the CW laser-crystallized poly-Si thin 
films are also analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis. Figure 11 displays the XRD result of 
continuous wave laser crystallized poly-Si thin film. In this case, the a-Si thin film of 50 nm was 
crystallized with laser power of 12 W, laser scanning speed of 5 cm/sec, and substrate temperature 
of room temperature. The result shows that the CW laser crystallized poly-Si thin film, which was 
crystallized in large grain size regime, exhibits the random orientation. Similar results are also 
attained by electron backscattering diffraction pattern (EBSD), as shown in Figure 12.  
Figure 13 (a) and 13 (b) are the AFM images of the poly-Si films crystallized by CW laser 
with a power of 12 watt. The image was taken from the as-crystallized sample. The grains can be 
clearly distinguished and the grains extend in tens of micron. The reason for this is the ridge and 
hillock formation at the grain boundaries which occurs due to the freezing of capillary waves 
excited in the silicon melt during the crystallization. The root-mean-square (rms) roughness and 
maximum height of the crystallized poly-Si thin film shown in Figure 13 (b) is 6.912 nm and 55.41 
nm, respectively. From a device standpoint, such a high surface roughness occurring in CW laser 
crystallization regime may be problematic because the reliability, uniformity, and gate dielectric 
integration of poly-Si TFTs are degraded.  
Figure 14 shows the plane-view TEM picture of continuous-wave laser crystallized poly-Si 
thin films. The plane-view TEM image displays a directional river-like lateral Si grain growth with 
 10
can be achieved. In addition to the enhancement of LTPS TFT performance, LTPS TFT crystallized 
by CW laser also exhibited better uniformity due to the wide laser process window. For large 
directional grain growth, there are similar grain structures in the channel region. As a result, a wide 
laser process window for producing high-performance LTPS TFTs was shown in both short and 
long device structures.  
Figure 20 is the comparison of Id-Vg curves for CWC TFTs which are structurally parallel and 
perpendicular to the direction of laser scanning, respectively. Some important electrical 
characteristics of LTPS TFTs are also listed in Table IV. The field-effect mobility is higher in the 
parallel TFTs due to the carriers hardly interrupted by grain boundaries.  
 
4 Summary 
 
A new and simple diode-pumped solid-state (DPSS) continuous-wave (CW) laser 
crystallization is also proposed to produce lateral grain growth via controlling the laser scanning 
speed and laser power. As compared with excimer laser, DPSS CW laser (λ = 532 nm) exhibit 
superior power stability. The CW laser-crystallized poly-Si thin film was analyzed by several 
material analyses, including SEM, Raman, AFM, TEM, and the factors that affected the final lateral 
crystallization microstructure were also investigated, including, laser scanning speed, laser power, 
and the ambient. From the SEM and AFM analyses, CW laser lateral crystallization makes it easy to 
form large grains (15 µm in length) owing to the continuous energy supply and slow cooling rate of 
the molten Si without damage to the glass substrates. In addition, the plane-view TEM pictures and 
selected-area electron diffraction pattern display a directional river-liked lateral Si grain growth 
with tens of micron and excellent crystallinity due to the clear dots, respectively.  From the 
cross-sectional TEM picture, a flat surface morphology is formed in the grain boundary which is 
suitable for gate oxide scale down. According to the experimental results, ultra high-performance 
 12
Table I 
The comparisons of excimer laser and DPSS continuous wave laser. 
 
Laser type Pulse laser (Excimer laser) CW laser (DPSS) 
Irradiation time Few tens ns ∞ 
wavelength UV range (XeCl, ArF etc)
Visible range (532 nm, 
Green) 
A-Si absorption coefficient 
(cm-1) 
10 6 10 5
Power stability ± 10% ± 1% 
Optical elements Quartz Glass 
Process ambient Vacuum/Air Air 
Growth mechanism 
Random nucleation and 
growth 
Continuous lateral 
crystallization 
Cost (facility + maintenance) High Low 
 
Table II 
 Measured sheet resistance of samples after various activation methods. 
Sheet resistance Ω/□ B11 (5E15) 
CW laser 15 W 50 
CW laser 10 W 141 
Excimer laser 390 mJ/cm2 55 
RTA 650℃ 60s 108 
FA 600℃ 24hrs 93 
 14
  
 
 
 
Figure 1  The process procedure of fabricating CWC LTPS TFTs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 16
  
Figure 3. The sheet resistance of boron-doped silicon films after excimer laser activation. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. The sheet resistance of boron-doped silicon films after CW laser activation with 
laser power of 10 W. 
 17
 
 
(a) (b) 
 
 
 
 
(c) (d) 
 
Figure 7. SEM graphs of poly-Si films crystallized by CW laser with different power of (a) 8 
watt. (b) 10watt. (c) 12watt.and (d) 14watt. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 19
 Figure 9. Raman peak intensity of the crystallized poly-Si thin films with laser power 
of 12W as a function of crystallization region, for which the crystallization was 
carried out at room temperature. 
 
Figure 10. The dependence of Raman peak intensity of the crystallized poly-Si 
thin films on different crystallization methods. 
 21
  
 
(a) 
 
 
 
(b) 
 
Figure 13.  (a) Atomic force microscope images of the CW laser crystallized poly-Si 
thin films with directional large grains. (b) Enlarged AFM image. 
 
 
 23
 
 
Figure 16. High-resolution cross-sectional TEM image and the selected-area electron 
diffraction pattern of the CW laser-crystallized crystallite. The diffraction pattern 
reveals that the crystallite exhibits <110> orientation along the direction of film grain 
growth. 
 
 
 
Figure 17. The mechanism of (a) continuous-wave laser lateral grain growth, and of 
(b) SLG regime on ELC.  
(1, 1,0)☉
SiO2
20 nm
Poly-Si 
G.B.
(a) (b) 
 25
-15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15
1x10-13
1x10-12
1x10-11
1x10-10
1x10-9
1x10-8
1x10-7
1x10-6
1x10-5
1x10-4
1x10-3
 Field Effect M
obility (cm
2/V-s)
( CLC P-TFT)
Vds = 5V
Vds = 0.1V
So
ur
ce
 C
ur
re
nt
 I s
d (
A
)
Gate Voltage Vgs (V)
0
100
200
300
400
500
 
 
Figure 19(a). Transfer characteristics of p-channel LTPS TFT crystallized by DPSS 
CW laser.  
 
 
0 -2 -4 -6 -8
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
 
  Vg = - 4 V
  Vg = - 8 V
  Vg = - 12 V
  Vg = - 16 V
D
ra
in
 C
ur
re
nt
 I d
s (
m
A
)
Drain Voltage Vds (V)
 
Figure 19(b). Output characteristics of p-channel LTPS TFT crystallized by DPSS 
CW laser.  
 27
References 
 Kuriyama, S. Kiyama, S. Noguchi[1] H. , T. Kuwahara, S. Ishida, T. Nohda, K. 
, H. Iwata, S. Tsuda, and S. Nakano, ”High mobility poly-Si TFT by a 
[2] 
s, 1995, pp. 3/1. 
ulsed laser annealing and 
[4] Hi
Applications,” in SID Tech. 
[5] Y. 
ile Applications,” in SID Tech. Dig., 2006, pp. 
[6] Jam
 involved on excimer laser crystallization of amorphous 
[7] Jam
s,” Appl. 
[8] C.
arge-grained polysilicon TFT 
Sano
new excimer laser annealing method for large area electronics,” in IEDM 
Tech. Dig., 1991, pp. 563-566.  
J. R. Ayres, “Low temperature poly-Si active matrix LCDs,” IEE Colloquium 
on Novel Display Technologie
[3] A. Kohno, T. Sameshima, N. Sano, M. Sekiya, and M. Hara, “High 
performance poly-Si TFTs fabricated using p
remote plasma CVD with low temperature processing,” IEEE Trans. 
Electron Devices, vol. 42, pp. 251-257, 1995. 
royuki Ohshima and Marcel Führen, “High-Performance LTPS 
Technologies for Advanced Mobile Display 
Dig., 2007, pp. 1482-1485. 
Yamamoto, T. Matsuo, and H. Komiya, “CG Silicon Technology and 
System Integration for Mob
1173-1176. 
es S. Im, H. J. Kim, and Michael O. Thompson, “Phase transformation 
mechanisms
silicon films,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 63, pp. 1969-1971, 1993. 
es S. Im and H. J. Kim, “On the super lateral growth phenomenon 
observed in excimer laser-induced crystallization of thin Si film
Phys. Lett., vol. 64, pp. 2303-2305, 1994. 
 F. Cheng, M. C. Poon, C. W. Kok, and Mansun. Chan, “Impact of 
transistor-to-grain size statistics on l
characteristics,” in IEDM Tech Dig., 2004, pp.789-792. 
 29
Workshops, 2005, pp. 953-956. 
 Tai, T. Sato, M. Matsumura, M. Hatano, and M. Ohkura, “Relationship 
between Mobility and Configu
[17] M.
ration of Thin-Film Transistor Fabricated 
[18] Y. 
h Current Drivability by using SELAX Technology for 
[19] Y. 
of double-layered silicon thin films by solid green laser 
[20] Ku
u Uraoka, “Analysis of Laser Crystallization of 
[21] N.
tallization,” in 
[22] N.
ngth on laser crystallization of 
[23] K.
 lasers ” in 
with Laterally-Grown Polycrystalline Silicon Layer” in AMLCD Tech. Dig., 
2007, pp. 205-206. 
Toyota, M. Matsumura, M. Hatano, and T. Shiba, “Integration of 
Reliability with Hig
High-Resolution (>300 ppi) System-in-Displays,” in SID Tech. Dig., 2005, 
pp. 1439-1441. 
Sugawara, Y. Uraoka, H. Yano, T. Hatayama, T. Fuyuki, and A. Mimura, 
“Crystallization 
annealing for high performance thin film transistors,” in AMFPD Tech. 
Dig., 2007, pp. 25-28. 
niaki Matsuki, Ryusuke Saito, Shuji Tsukamoto, Mutsumi Kimura, Yuta 
Sugawara and Yukihar
Double-Layered poly-Si Thin Films using Process Simulation of Laser 
Crystallization,” in AMFPD Tech. Dig., 2007, pp. 199-200. 
 Kawamoto, T. Miyoshi, N. Matsuo, T. Fujiwara, H. Ishikawa, K. Ueno, 
and A. Heya, “A concept of visible laser induced lateral crys
AMFPD Tech. Dig., 2007, pp. 255-258. 
 Kawamoto, T. Miyoshi, N. Matsuo, H. Ishikawa, T. Fujiwara, K. Ueno, 
and A. Heya, “Influence of wavele
amorphous Si film,” in AMFPD Tech. Dig., 2007, pp. 163-167. 
Yamazaki, T. Kudo, K. Seike, D. Ichishima and C. G. Jin, “Double-pulsed 
laser annealing system and polycrystallization with Green DPSS
AMLCD Tech. Dig., 2002, pp. 149-152. 
 31
758-761, 2004. 
 Hara, F. Takeuchi, and N. Sasaki, “Selective single-crystalline-silicon 
growth at the pr
[32] A.
e-defined active regions of TFTs on a glass by a scanning 
[33] A.
Temperature 
[34] A.
Double-Gate Low-Temperature Polycrystalline Silicon Thin-Film 
[35] A.
olycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 
[36] A.
[37] K.
cimer laser and 
CW laser irradiation,” in IEDM Tech Dig., 2000, pp.209-212. 
 Hara, M. Takei, F. Takeuchi, K. Suga, K. Yoshino, M. Chida, T. Kakehi, Y. 
Ebiko, Y. Sano and N. Sasaki, “High Performance Low 
Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film Transistors on Non-alkaline Glass 
Produced Using Diode Pumped Solid State Continuous Wave Laser 
Lateral Crystallization,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. Part 1, vol. 43, pp. 1269-1276, 
2004. 
 Hara, M. Takei, K. Yoshino, F. Takeuchi and N. Sasaki, “Self-Aligned 
Metal 
Transistors on Non-Alkali Glass Substrate Using Diode-Pumped 
Solid-State Continuous Wave Laser Lateral Crystallization,” Jpn. J. Appl. 
Phys., vol. 43, pp. L790-L793, 2004. 
 Hara, F. Takeuchi, M. Takei, K. Suga, K. Yoshino, M. Chida, Y. Sano and 
N. Sasaki, “High-Performance P
Transistors on Non-Alkali Glass Produced Using Continuous Wave Laser 
Lateral Crystallization,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 41, pp. L311-L313, 2002. 
 Hara, K. Yoshino, F. Takeuchi, and N. Sasaki, “Selective 
Single-Crystalline-Silicon Growth at the Pre-defined Active Region of a 
Thin Film Transistor on Glass by Using Continuous Wave Laser 
Irradiation,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 42, pp. 23-27, 2003. 
 Kitahara, Y. Ohashi, Y. Katoh, A. Hara and N. Sasaki, “Submicron-scale 
characterization of poly-Si thin films crystallized by ex
continuous-wave laser,” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 95, pp. 7850-7855, 2004. 
 33
