  
 
中文摘要 
 
 對於系統晶片的設計來說，將易受干擾的電路與會產生大量雜訊的數位電路放在同一
晶片上是一個很大的挑戰。數位電路同時切換造成的雜訊（SSN）會造成信號與電源完整
性（SI/PI）的問題。本研究主要的工作為：(1)探討 SSN 對高速介面電路或時序模組造成的
影響，(2)分析晶片上去耦合電容對 SSN 的抑制成效。 
 
 報告內容主要包括:：(1)已提交至國家晶片中心審查之測試晶片，(2)預計於二月中提交
至國家晶片中心審查之測試晶片，(3)發表於 IEEE Trans. on Instrumentation and Measurement
之內容摘要，共三個部份。當量測工作結束時，將可提出有關 SI/PI 的設計準則。期望能幫
助 SoC 設計工程師在設計初期就能將 SI/PI 問題納入考慮。 
 
 
英文摘要 
 
 In SoC applications it is always a challenge to integrate sensitive components with noisy 
digital blocks on the same chip.  Simultaneous switching noise (SSN) generated by digital 
blocks will cause signal and power integrity (SI/PI) issues.  In this study, we will work on: (1) 
characterizing SSN and its impacts to high-speed I/Os and timing modules, and (2) study the 
effectiveness of on-chip de-coupling capacitors. 
 The contents in this report will include: (1) the I/O test chip in review by CIC, (2) the PLL 
test chip to be submitted to CIC in February, and (3) a summary regarding a noise sensor design 
paper, a joint work with Stanford University, published in IEEE Trans. on Instrumentation and 
Measurement, December 2007.  Once the measurement results are obtained, the research team 
can deliver SI/PI-aware design guidelines to help SoC designers at the beginning of the design 
stages. 
 
 
 
關鍵詞 
 信號完整性，電源完整性，系統晶片 
 Signal Integrity, Power Integrity, System-on-Chip(SoC) 
 
 
 
          I 
  
研究方法 
 
 In the first test chip, the research team has implemented DDR3 compatible I/Os together 
with on-chip decoupling capacitors (joint work with Prof. H. S. Chen and T. L. Wu’s group at 
National Taiwan University) to test how those I/Os perform under noisy environment (Fig.1).  In 
addition, by changing the number of the decoupling capacitors attached to the power net using 
laser cuts, the researchers can alter cap values to evaluate the effectiveness of those caps as a 
function of their values and locations. 
 
 In the second test chip, a PLL running at 900 MHz with noise sensors is implemented, and 
the PLL is surrounded by noise injection points.  By changing the noise patterns (including 
frequency, phase, amplitude), the students can observe how the designed PLL is effected by 
different noise characteristics (Fig 2).  Besides, the test chip can be used to characterize how 
noise propagates in the substrate.  The detailed methodology can be found in [2]. 
 
 
結果與討論 
 
 In the journal paper published [3], the Stanford-NTU team presents PMOS-based differential 
substrate and power-supply sensors and on-chip waveform sampler, which focus on wide 
bandwidth, reduced parasitic interactions, and compact size.  PMOSs are used because they are 
less susceptible to substrate noise.  The bandwidth of the proposed sensors, which is 
implemented with an IBM 0.13 µm CMOS technology, is from DC to 1.6 GHz.  Linearity is 
better than 1.5% for substrate and 6% for power-supply sensors.  Experimentally reconstructed 
waveforms with 20-ps time resolution allowed the measurement of amplitude, rise time, and 
overshoot of transition edges. 
 
 Design guidelines for solving SI/PI issues are carefully examined in this project, and test 
structures are designed to verify these guidelines.  For example, locations of substrate contacts 
are critical; guard rings should be placed near injection points as well as sensitive blocks, if 
permitted; guard rings close to injection points could be more effective.  The silicon data 
coming from the above mentioned test chips will help the research team to finalize good 
guidelines with quantitative evidences.  Meanwhile, another test chip using flash ADCs as the 
test vehicle is being designed.  Besides, an electromagnetic simulator, HFSS, is used to extract 
wire parasitics, which are included in circuit level simulations to study SSN on power grid and its 
impact to SRAM performance. 
 
 
附圖(Please refer to the next page) 
          2 
  
計畫成果自評 
 
 The progress is a bit behind the schedule, since chip design takes longer than expected.  
Even so, the test chip for I/Os is in review, the test chip for a PLL is under revision.  In addition, 
a test chip for flash ADCs is being designed.  The simulation of SRAM performance impacted 
by SSN is in progress.  A journal paper regarding substrate and power grid sensors is published 
jointly with the researchers at Stanford University.  There should be solid results for publications 
or patterns once measurement data from the test chips are collected and analyzed. 
 
 
參考文獻 
 
[1] M. Xu, Substrate Noise in Mixed-Signal Integrated Circuits, PhD Dissertation, Stanford 
University, Jun. 2001. 
[2] Yi-Chang Lu, “Digital noise emulator for characterization of phase-locked-loop systems 
exposed to substrate noise,” Stanford University (ProQuest, ISBN: 0496135333), Jan. 2005. 
[3] Cosmin Iorga, Yi-Chang Lu, Robert W. Dutton, "A built-in technique for measuring substrate 
and power supply digital switching noise using PMOS-based differential sensors and a waveform 
sampler in system-on-chip applications," IEEE Trans. on Instrumentation and Measurement, 
Vol.56, No. 6, pp. 2330-2337, Dec. 2007. 
[4] D. K. Su, et al., “Experimental results and modeling techniques for substrate noise in 
mixed-signal integrated circuits,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 28, no. 4, pp. 420-430, Apr. 
1993. 
[5] T. Blalack, Switching Noise in Mixed-Signal Integrated Circuit, PhD Dissertation, Stanford 
University, Dec. 1997. 
[6] P. Larsson, “Measurements and analysis of PLL jitter caused by digital switching noise," IEEE J. 
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 36, no. 7, pp. 1113-1119, Jul. 2001. 
[7] J. Catrysse, “Measured distortion of the output-waveform of an integrated OPAMP due to 
substrate noise, “IEEE Tran. Electromagnetic Compatibility, vol. 37, no. 2, pp. 310-312, May 
1995. 
[8] M. van Heijningen, et al., “Substrate noise generation in complex digital systems: efficient 
modeling and simulation methodology and experimental verification,” IEEE J. Solid-State 
Circuits, vol. 37, no. 8, pp. 1065-1072, Aug. 2002. 
[9] M. Nagata, et al., “Physical design guides for substrate noise reduction in CMOS digital 
circuits,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 539-549, Mar. 2001. 
[10] M. Nagata, et al., “Measurements and analyses of substrate noise waveform in mixed-signal 
IC environment,” IEEE Tran. Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 19, 
no. 6, pp. 671-678, Jun. 2000. 
[11] http://www.vlsisymposium.org/2007/circuits/technical.html 
 
4 
