UWB 極寬頻電波傳播通道分析研究與有限狀態馬可夫通道模式化 
NSC 95-2221-E-019 -045 - 
95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 10 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：吳家琪 
共同主持人：李啟民、湯譯增 
計畫參與人員：黃家青、林享樺、陳國祥、徐嘉韋 
 
前言 
本專題研究計畫的目的是藉著訊息理論的數學探討，建構一個極寬頻室內通道數學模式，奠
立日後整個數位無線傳輸模擬系統建立的基礎。藉由研讀專家學者們對極寬頻電波傳播通道
的分析瞭解及現有的統計通道模型，找出適當重要的參數建構一個簡單之極寬頻通道數學模
式。當使用極寬頻通道時，通道衰減在時間上和頻率上會有區塊衰減效應，利用找出通道容
量上下限的範圍來決定區塊頻寬的大小，提供了分割極寬頻頻寬的有效方法。我們探討區塊
衰減寬頻通道之時域和頻域在時變脈衝響應的相關性。在寬頻衰減通道時，我們嘗試以頻寬
衡量(Bandwidth Scaling)方式對一個極大的頻寬分段，每一個頻寬分段將利用有限狀態的馬可
夫通道模型(Finite-State Markov Channel, FSMC)來描述。將接收到的訊雜比分割成有限各區間
後，就能夠利用有限狀態馬可夫通道模型建立極寬頻的衰減通道或是其他的衰減通道。 
研究目的與方法 
The goal is to develop channel models that can be used in more operating environments (i.e. 
both indoor and outdoor environments) and with longer operating range (i.e., > 10 meters and up 
to few hundred meters for outdoor environments). Since more than 80% of the envisioned 
commercial UWB applications will be indoor communications, we shall focus on indoor channels 
first. The well known Saleh-Valenzuela (S-V) indoor channel model was established back in 1987 
[1]. The original S-V model characterizes the cluster and ray arrival times by two independent 
single Poisson processes. In Chong and Yong’s model [2], they replaced the single Poisson process 
with mixtures of two Poisson processes to model the ray arrival times within cluster. They have 
investigated small-scale amplitude fading statistics and the temporal correlation between adjacent 
path amplitudes. In order to setup appropriate UWB finite-state Markov channel models, we have 
investigated some USB background material, especially the frequency regulation and the currently 
envisioned applications for UWB systems; those determine the frequency range and the 
environments for which UWB channels are to be explored. At the same time, we are about to learn 
the frequency dependence of various propagation effects, including free-space propagation, 
diffraction, and reflection and their impact on ray tracing. The understanding of these aspects may 
help us to set up generic description methods for UWB channels and establishes statistical 
descriptions that include path gain, shadowing, delay dispersion (including shape of the power 
delay profile, arrival times of the MPCs, cluster parameters), small-scale fading, angular 
dispersion, and temporal variations of the channel.  
Previous analyses of UWB systems in multipath environments use narrowband channel models 
or straightforward extensions to finer delay resolutions. More generally, performance analyses of 
UWB systems are usually based on channel models that imply Rayleigh fading. However, Cassioli 
et al [3] show that the empirical distribution of the path gains markedly differs from the 
exponential power statistics (i.e., Rayleigh amplitude statistics), which is due to the fact that UWB 
systems provide high resolution in the delay domain, implying that only a small number of 
multipath components (MPCs) fall within an interval of delay resolution. They proposed a 
stochastic tapped-delay-line (STDL) propagation model for the UWB indoor channel. All the 
parameters of the STDL model ware extracted from a set of measured impulse responses. Howard 
and Pahlavan [4] applied autoregressive (AR) model to describe wide-band indoor radio 
propagation channel. Ghassemzadeh et al [5] found that autoregressive moving-average (ARMA) 
constraint is ε /μ. 
We have tried to find upper bound that signals satisfy the second moment constraint with 
equality. At first, we obtain an upper bound using a signaling scheme which does not meet the 
second moment constraint with equality. We then multiply the signals by some parameter α, 
(where α > 1) to meet the second moment constraint with equality. Moreover, at the receiver we 
could divide the received signal by α, in effect reducing the AWGN. Thus, by the data processing 
theorem, the capacity of the channel with the input multiplied by α would be greater than that of 
the channel not multiplied by α. As shown in Meddard and Tse [10], the upper bound on channel 
capacity is in the following formula: 
2
2 2
2 2
2
( , , , , , )
log 1 log 1
2 2
F
F F
C W T
W TW
T
ε σ μ γ
μ ε με γσ σμ γ με
⎛ ⎞⎛ ⎞≤ + − +⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
 
When γÆ ∞, the maximum value on channel capacity is 2log( 1)
2 F
WC μ εσ μ= + , and the 
minimum value is 2lim ( , , , , , ) 0FC W Tμ ε σ μ γ→∞ →  when μÆ ∞. Applying the upper and lower 
bounds, first, note that spreading from μ Æ nμ is beneficial if and only if 
2 2( , , , , , ) ( , , , , , )F FC W T C W T nε σ μ γ ε σ μ γ≤  
We also notice that, given the convexity of capacity, we have that 
2 2( , , , , , ) ( , , , , , )F FC W T nC W Tn
εε σ μ γ σ μ γ=  
According to the above equation, we should scale to n sub-bandwidth in a large bandwidth. 
After bandwidth scaling for a very large bandwidth fading channels, we may separate the UWB 
channel into several wideband fading channels, and each bandwidth scaled wideband fading 
channel can be described by a finite-state Markov channel (FSMC) model. 
Let S = {s0, s1, …, sK-1} denote a finite set of states and {Sn}, n = 0, 1, 2, …. The Markov 
process has the property of stationary transition, the transition probability is independent of the 
time index n and is shown as 
, 1Pr( | )j k n k n jt S s S s+= = =  
Moreover, with the stationary transition property, the probability of state k at any permissible 
time index n without any state information at other time indices can be defined as 
Pr( ),    {0,1,2,..., 1}k n kp S s k K= = ∈ −  
A K×1 steady state probability vector p can be defined with its elements pk. Any state k, the 
incoming flow and outgoing flow must be equal. That is, for all {0,1,..., 1}k K∈ −  
1 1
, ,
0 0
K K
j j k k k l
j l
p t p t
− −
= =
=∑ ∑  
Since 
1
.
0
,     {0,1,2, , 1}
K
k k l k
l
p t p k K
−
=
= ∀ ∈ −∑ K , therefore, we can simplify the equation to 
t tp T p=  
where pt is the transpose of p. 
Here, lower bound can be ignored, while, upper bound is essential in finding maximum 
capacity in a large bandwidth. Consecutively, a UWB fading channel can be modeled by each 
divided bandwidth which contains wideband FSMC in Fig. 2.  
 
Figure 2. An UWB fading channel modeled by FSMC 
The algorithm for modeling a UWB fading channel is given as: 
Step 1 
Assume the divided bandwidth are presented by Bi in a very large bandwidth fading channel, 
for i = 1, 2, …, n, with 1n ≥ . Each Bi are divided to nC 
2
2
( , , , , , )
  ( , , , , , )
i F
F
B C W T
nC W T
n
ε σ μ γ
ε σ μ γ
=
=  
Each Bi is identical and bounded by 
2( , , , , , )FC W Tε σ μ γ ≤
2 2 22
2log 1 log 12 2
F FW TW
T
σ ε σ γμ με
μ γ με
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞+ − +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
 
The second moment constraint is ( )2 /X ε μ≤ , amplitude upper bound is ( ) 2/ Xγ ε , and 
variance is 2Fσ , then signal-to-noise ratio is defined as 
2
F
SNR γσ με=  
Step 2 
The transition probability tk,k-1’ can be approximated by the ratio of the expected level crossing 
at Ak’ divided by the average symbols per second the SNR falls in the interval associated with state 
sk. Specifically, let Nk, k = 1, 2, 3, …, K-1, be the expected number of times per second the 
received SNR passed downward across the threshold Ak’,  
2 expk kK m
A AN fπρ ρ
⎧ ⎫′ ′⎪ ⎪′ = −⎨ ⎬⎪ ⎪⎩ ⎭
 
The Markov transition probabilities are then approximated by 
1
, 1 ( ) ,    0,1, 2, , 2
k
k k k
t
Nt k K
R
+
+
′′ ≈ = −L  
, 1 ( ) ,    1, 2,3, , 1
k
k k k
t
Nt k K
R−
′′ ≈ = −L  
Since wideband fading channels can be viewed with block fading in time and frequency, as 
bandwidth increasing infinitely capacity becomes zero when signal is constrained in its second 
moment. Therefore we can apply bandwidth scaling to separate block-fading channels, and there 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                            2007 年 7 月 10 日 
報告人 
姓名 吳家琪 
服務機構
及職稱
國立臺灣海洋大學通訊與導航工
程學系助理教授 
會議時間 
會議地點 
2007 年 7 月 2 日至 7 月 4 日
新加坡 
本會核定
補助文號 NSC 95-2221-E-019 -045 - 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2007 年國際無線暨光通訊網路研討會 
(英文) The fourth IEEE and IFIP International Conference on wireless and 
Optical communications Networks (WOCN2007) 
發表論文
題目 
（中文）多重速率解展頻碼 
（英文）Multi-Rate De-Spreading Code 
Multi-Rate De-Spreading Code 
Jia-Chyi Wu, Chi-Min Li, and Han-Way Chou 
Department of Communications and Guidance Engineering 
National Taiwan Ocean University 
Keelung, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
Abstract-An efficient methodology to construct direct sequence 
Code Division Multiple Access (DS-CDMA) de-coding scheme has 
been investigated. System correlation performance is provided 
and analyzed. Since the perfect orthogonal codes, such as Walsh 
code, are difficult to obtain massively in conventional DS-CDMA 
system. To increase the number of spreading code utilized in 
system, we usually adopt sub-orthogonal codes, such as Gold 
sequences. Although the number of codes is extensively increased, 
the Multiple Access Interference (MAI) problem has to be treated 
more carefully. Especially while lots of users access the DS-CDMA 
system at the same time. In this study, we proposed a CDMA 
de-spreading scheme worked in receiver part. The MAI can be 
treated efficiently in the proposed multi-rate de-spreading 
scheme. 
Keywords: DS-CDMA, Walsh Code, Gold Code, Multiple Access 
Interference (MAI), Sub-Spreading Code. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Direct sequence code division multiple access (DS-CDMA) 
system has been generally applied to wireless communications 
system. In order to allow more users effectively access in 
wireless system simultaneously, there are lots of schemes been 
developed, e.g., Multi-Carrier Code Division Multiple Access 
(MC-CDMA). In this study, we proposed a multi-rate 
de-spreading code algorithm to increase user amount in a 
DS-CDMA system. 
We are interested in utilizing a CDMA multi-rate 
de-spreading process to increase the numbers of effective user 
access simultaneously in the system. To simplify the system 
simulation, we have only considered the synchronous case 
over an ideal channel. By way of correlation calculating we are 
able to distinguish the spreading code from the original user 
with other users. Applying the multi-rate de-spreading scheme, 
we have observed the cross-correlation calculated between 
different users is lower than the cross-correlation calculated 
from conventional de-spreading. By applying the sub- 
spreading code, miu , in the receiver end, the received signal 
power is spread one more time over the observing frequency 
band. Since the sub-spreading code, miu , is generated based 
on the original spreading code, ui, we found that the 
sub-autocorrelation (correlation between the generated 
sub-spreading code, miu , and the corresponding original 
spreading code, ui) is much higher than the cross-correlation 
(correlation between miu  and the other spreading codes, uj, j 
≠ i). We have also investigated what is the optimum 
sub-spreading code pattern in this study. The choice of the 
sub-spreading code miu , should be able to reduce the 
cross-correlation effect more than the sub-autocorrelation. 
II. MULTI-RATE DE-SPREADING SYSTEM MODEL 
The multi-rate de-spreading code system to be considered 
is depicted in Figure 1. At the transmitter side, the system 
operated just the same as the conventional spreading system.  
 
Figure 1. Multi-rate De-spreading code System 
 
By utilizing the sub-spreading code miu  in the receiver 
end, the received signal power spectrum is reduced, we than 
apply the original spreading code to the received signal. The 
procedure is described as follows, 
Step.1: After receiving signal, we multiply sub-spreading 
code, miu  to the received signal and calculate the correlation. 
The one with highest correlation value, which we have named 
it “sub-autocorrelation” in this study, is the target signal. 
Step.2: We remove the sub-spreading code and replace it 
by original target spreading code, find out the autocorrelation 
with the conventional de-spreading to decoded signal.  
Though these two steps, we may reduce the ISI effect. By 
comparing the original autocorrelation with cross-correlations 
in the receiver end, we are able to increase the number of users 
in a DS-CDMA system. 
The correlation function calculation is used in de-spreading 
code shown in (1)  
 RXY(t,τ) = E[X(t)Y(t+ τ)]  (1)
Applying Fourier Transform, signal power spectrum over 
the frequency band be expressed as (2) 
 F(RXY(t,τ)) = F(E[X(t)Y(t+ τ)])  (2)
1-4244-1005-3/07/$25.00 ©2007 IEEE.
From Fig. 4, we found the Walsh code performs excellent 
in distinguishing signals. The differential ratio between 
spectrum of autocorrelation and cross-correlation are almost 
the same as seen in the conventional system (Fig. 3). 
 
 
Figure.5 Step.1 two-users in the multi-rate de-spreading system, Walsh code  
 
If there are two other users in the multi-rate de-spreading 
system, we can easily find spectrum difference in Fig.5. 
Therefore, we can move to Step 2, replacing multi-rate code by 
original code to calculate the signal spectrum of 
autocorrelation. Comparison for re-calculated spectrum of 
autocorrelation with spectrum of multi-rate cross-correlation is 
in Fig.6. 
 
 
Figure.6 Step.2 two-users in the multi-rate de-spreading system, Walsh code 
 
We can conclude that the multi-rate de-spreading system 
performs excellent for Walsh code, the orthogonal code. We 
then investigate the performance of the most popular used 
spreading code, Gold sequence in the multi-rate de-spreading 
system.  
 
 
Figure.7 Conventional de-spreading system, Gold code 
From Fig. 2 and Fig. 7, we can see the Gold code is a good 
code in distinguishing signals, but the spectrum of correlation 
ratio difference is less than that of Walsh code.  
 
 
Figure.8 Two-users in the original de-spreading system, Gold code
  
If there are two other users in the conventional 
de-spreading system, the spectrum of autocorrelation is not 
obviously higher than the spectrum of cross-correlation in 
Fig.8. We found that Walsh code performs excellent in 
distinguishing signals, and the ratios between spectrum of 
autocorrelation and cross-correlation are almost the same in 
conventional spreading system as in the proposed system. 
 
 
Figure.9 Multi-rate de-spreading system, Gold code
  
From Fig.9, we found that the differentiate ratio between 
spectrum of autocorrelation and cross-correlation in the 
multi-rate de-spreading system is higher than the conventional 
system (Fig. 7). Since the power spectrum of sub- 
autocorrelation is lower in the proposed system compared with 
the conventional system. We need to detect the spectrum of 
sub-autocorrelation more efficiently and to rebuild the 
spectrum of autocorrelation after then.  
 
 
Figure.10 Step.1 two-users in the multi-rate de- spreading system, Gold code 
