reinforced concrete model residential building (Fig.1), designed according to ACI 318 
seismic details (Fig. 2), were used for the specimens. Two types of concrete, normal 
and self-compacting concretes, were used. The cylinder compressive strength of 
concrete was 39 MPa for specimen NC5 and 46 MPa for specimens SCC4 and SCC5 
specimens at test date. The magnitude and locations of two concentrated loads, P1 and 
P2, applied at beam of specimens were designed to simulate the moment distribution 
in the model residential building. The loads applied to column and beam were 
stepwise in magnitude for the observation of overload behavior and avoiding the 
premature failure in column. The magnitude of loads applied to the specimens prior to 
heating was to simulate the service load effect in residential building. The specimens 
were loaded during ISO 834 standard temperature test for three hours. Fifteen hours 
after cooling the loads on beam and column were released. The residual strength test 
was conducted for the overload behavior and strength as well as failure mode (Fig. 3).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Model of test specimen and residential building 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1 Concrete Spalling  
During approximately the first twenty minutes of heating, concrete spalling 
along the bottom corners of beam were observed as shown in Figs. 5 (a) to (f). The 
debris of spalled concrete were also found at the floor of beam furnace. Severe 
spalling were observed at the bottom of beam near the column in all specimens. In 
this study, normal concrete specimen NC5 had more spalling than SCC specimens 
SCC4 and SCC5. The corner spalling of lower column in the three specimens, as 
shown in Figs. 5(d) to 5(f), was observed approximately in the first 18 minutes of 
heating. Following that several spalling occurred at the corners of beam-column joint. 
Some spalling of concrete were also found at surface and corners of upper column.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       
 
 (a) NC5  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           (b) SCC4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Temperature gradient inside beam section  
at load point P1 (Specimen SCC5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
(c) Temperature gradient at top section of lower column 
                      (Specimen SCC5) 
                Fig. 7 Temperature variations inside the specimens 
 
4.3 Deformations during heating stage 
The vertical displacements at two load points and the point between those two 
points were recorded before and during heating stages as shown in Fig. 8. Much more 
deformations of beam occurred in the first thirty minutes of heating, and the 
maximum displacement of beam was approximately 60 mm at the end of 180 minutes 
of heating , which was ten times that at room temperature. The beam deformations 
were much smaller during the thirty to sixty minutes, which is believed to be the 
lower temperature rise due to phase change of water inside concrete. Similar results 
were also recorded in the other two specimens. The beam elongated toward both ends 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 9 Variation of vertical displacement at load point P2 
                 during residual strength test 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 10 Variation of moment –curvature relationship at upper 
  And lower column during residual strength test 
 
 
5. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 
Three full-sized beam column sub-assemblage specimens designed according to 
the ACI 318 seismic provisions were subjected to combined action of applied loads 
and ISO 834 elevated temperature for three hours. The following conclusions are 
drawn based on the observed results. 
1. The specimens behaved satisfactorily under the ISO834 standard fire test for three 
hours. 
2. Most of the concrete spalling occurred along the bottom edge of beams and corner 
of lower column during the first thirty minutes of heating. Relatively more 
