中文摘要 
 
原子層沉積技術(ALD)之特性包括：(1)無瑕疵；(2)100%表面立體覆蓋；(3)薄膜厚度之
控制精準度達一個原子層(~1Å)。利用 ALD 之特性，我們研究 OLED 中之原子層界面薄膜對
其發光機制之影響。我們將 ALD 之 Al2O3薄膜沉積於高分子電致發光層與陰極之界面，製程
ALD 改質之 OLED 元件。研究結果發現，ALD 改質元件較控制元件之電流密度、開啟電壓、
及發光效率皆有顯著上升。在不同 ALD 界面薄膜厚度之研究上，我們發現 ALD 界面薄膜厚
度在~8Å範圍對元件性能的改善最顯著。元件性能改善之機制為 Al2O3薄膜對
Fowler-Norheim 穿隧現象的促進。使用 Al2O3薄膜改質 OLED 界面將可取代高反應性之低功
函數金屬，使元件穩定性增加，並可隔絕高分子電致發光層與外界環境，增加元件使用壽
命。 
 
 
 
Keywords：有機發光顯示器，原子層沉積 
 
報告內容 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
I. OLED basic 
The organic light emitting diode (OLED), a type of displays utilizing organic small-molecule 
and/or polymer (PLED) electroluminescent materials, are attracting considerable interests among 
academic and industrial researchers alike. The popularity of the OLED among researchers is a 
manifestation of its promising potential in becoming the dominant displays technology for the 
future, thanks to its advantages including wide viewing angle, low power consumption, and high 
mechanical strength.1 Moreover, the solid-state and emissive nature of the OLED render it 
excellent platform upon which flexible displays technology may be developed.2 Although 
substantial headway has been made in the research and development of the OLED technology, 
the path toward commercialization of OLED displays, however, is still marred with numerous 
obstacles, most notable of which lies in the properties of the electroluminescent (EL) materials, 
i.e. the currently available EL materials do not offer adequate EL efficiency, displays lifetime, and 
color fidelity.3  
A wide array of research efforts have been under way to address the issue of inadequate EL 
materials properties, with approaches based mainly on two rationales: development of new and 
improved EL materials, and development of new and improved device structure. Efforts from the 
former approach have undoubtedly born encouraging fruits, such as the development of 
phosphorescent EL materials4,5 and the use of hybrid EL materials of small molecules and 
polymers.6 The newly developed materials, however, are subjects of time-consuming study on 
their OLED-relevant properties, and are hence not readily available for industrial production. 
Many in the front line of industrial production resort to a different approach that is to modify the 
device structure of OLED in hope of improving its performance. Tang et al of Kodak in 1987 
published their pioneering work on device structure and reported an impressive improvement in 
the EL efficiency of OLED by the introduction of a multilayer structure.7 Countless researchers 
have followed this path and continued to improve the performance of OLED.3  
 
II. Improvement of OLED performance by interfacial treatment 
A particularly interesting approach of device-structure modification is to apply surface 
treatment to the various interfaces in the OLED displays. This approach is of special interest 
because it requires minimal alteration to the device-fabrication process and is therefore most 
readily adoptable to industrial production. A typical OLED device consists of a metal cathode, an 
organic electron-transporting layer (ETL), an organic hole-transporting layer (HTL), and a 
transparent conducting anode, with a total of 3 interfaces between the layers. Remarkable 
improvements in the device performance have been reported by applying treatment to each of the 
interfaces. Before discussing the techniques for treating the interfaces, it would be helpful to 
briefly explain how the electron energy levels of the constituent layers affect the performance of 
OLED.  
According to the band offset for a typical OLED display, for the device to emit light, 
Although the aforementioned studies demonstrated the benefit of an ultra-thin film at the 
OLED interfaces, the thin-film techniques adopted in the studies presented intrinsic limits that 
prevented the full advantage of the interfacial thin films from being unraveled. The limits of the 
thin-film techniques used in the studies, including physical vapor deposition (PVD) and plasma 
enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD), are: (1) incomplete step coverage; (2) defect 
formation in the thin film during deposition; (3) thickness control > ± 10Å. The three factors 
become critical when the interfacial thin film needs to be as thin as 10-20Å, which in the worst 
case may leave a large portion of the interface uncoated. The limited capability of current 
thin-film techniques will also make potential industrial production highly difficult, if the 
approach of interfacial thin film is to be implemented. 
The technique of atomic layer deposition (ALD) 20,21 possesses the exact characteristics that 
are required to fully realize the benefits of the interfacial thin film approach. A typical ALD 
process involves two precursors (A and B) and is as follows: (1) the substrate surface is exposed 
to precursor A until it is saturated by physical adsorption; (2) the substrate is purged with inert 
gas to leave only 1 monolayer of precursor A on the surface; (3) precursor B is introduced to react 
with the adsorbed A until all A is reacted; (4) the substrate is purged again to remove unreacted B. 
The above steps constitute 1 cycle, where only one monolayer is formed. The process is often 
described as being “self-limiting,” since it invariable produces one monolayer so long as the 
substrate is allowed enough time to adsorb the precursors.22 The unique film-forming mechanism 
of ALD results in its characteristics: (1) complete step coverage; (2) defect-free; (3) accurate 
thickness control down to 1 atomic layer (~1Å). 23,24 Most notably, the ALD technique is 
particularly well-suited for large area coating and has already be used in manufacturing inorganic 
LED displays.25   
ALD processes for many different ceramic materials and metals have been reported, 
including Al2O3,23 SiO2,26 HfO2,24 ZnO2,27 TiO2,28 ZrO2,28,29 Y2O3,30 Pt,31 Ru,32 etc. A 
common feature among the materials is that they typically require rather high deposition 
temperature, in the range of 250-500°C, which may limit their compatibility with the 
heat-sensitive OLED materials. Fortunately, recent efforts have reduced the deposition 
temperature for many of the materials: Al2O3: ~70°C; HfO2: ~100°C; SiO2 ~25°C; Pt: ~200°C; 
TiO2 and ZrO2: ~80°C; ZnO2:~150°C etc. In fact, the high deposition temperature is not an issue 
when coating ALD films on the anode, as OLED materials are coated onto the anode after the 
interfacial film. 
 
OBJECTIVE 
       
The objective of this proposal to utilize the ALD technique to explore the full potential of 
interfacial thin films in OLED, with a focus on the cathode/ETL interface, where the benefit of 
ALD Al2O3 thin film and the effect of film thickness is studied. 
 
EXPERIMENTAL SECTION 
 
ALD films of Al2O3 were deposited on the surfaces of electroluminescent polymers including 
 CONCLUSION 
 
We have demonstrated the feasibility of using ultra-thin ALD Al2O3 layer to enhance the 
performance of OLED displays. Our approach involved inserting an ultra-thin ALD Al2O3 layer 
between the EL material and the cathode, which served dual functions: (1) protect the EL material 
from the reactive species in the ambience including H2O and O2; (2) block holes and enhance 
electron injection at the EL-cathode interface during operation. The ALD-inserted OLED devices 
showed improved current density and brightness. Our method will render OLED displays more 
stable with longer lifetime, resolving one of the main issues that have impeded OLED’s 
commercialization. 
 
 
