 1
1. 前言、研究目的 
關鍵基礎建設(Critical Infrastructures, CI)指一個國家為維持穩定的經濟、民
生與政府運作而提供的基本產品或服務，例如電信、能源、金融、交通、供水、
醫療以及急難救助等。一旦關鍵基礎建設不能提供服務，社會安全、民生經濟都
會受到影響。像是台灣近幾年的 729 停電、921 地震等，對電力、用水、交通都
造成嚴重的影響。 
911 恐怖攻擊事件之後，如何有效防護關鍵基礎建設為當前世界上各國家反
恐、國防、及民防的重要課題。因為現在關鍵基礎建設多連上網路或運用電腦，
所以關鍵基礎建設的防護(Critical Infrastructure Protection, CIP)，又可統稱為關鍵
基礎資訊建設的防護(Critical Information Infrastructure Protection, CIIP)。對於
CIIP，相關單位需要一個能夠整合的模擬分析工具。近年來歐美等先進國家均致
力於發展各式模擬工具，來評估本身的關鍵基礎建設面對之攻擊劇情時之防護能
力，並提供人員訓練和事發時線上決策支援。目前台灣尚缺乏相關模擬分析軟體
系統可供應用。此項工作具有區域性、機密性等特色，無法直接採用國外工具，
故國內亦應該建立自己的關鍵資訊基礎建設保護措施模擬分析之技術。本研究即
針對基礎建設可能遭遇的恐怖威脅，發展一套關鍵基礎建設防護模擬分析平台和
其下的實體建設防護及危險物資的運輸模擬器，以有效支援基礎建設防護的決策
及訓練工作。 
 
2. 文獻探討 
2.1 關鍵基礎建設防護 
「國際關鍵資訊基礎建設保護手冊」(Inter - national CIIP Handbook[2][5][15])
是目前最記錄關鍵資訊基礎建設保護資訊最詳盡的書目，由瑞士聯邦理工學院安
全研究中心(Center for Security Study)發行。目的為對重要基礎建設資訊系統保護
主要議題提供整體性與國際性概觀，作為從事本項工作「國際社群之共同參考基
礎」。本手冊預期讀者為保護計劃制定者及實際從事保護工作人員。其內容包括
各國的相關政策、最新研究、防護目標與準則、組織構成等。此書每 2 年發行一
次，至 2008 年版為止，已包含 25 個國家與 8 個國際組織的資訊。 
2.2 型態學分析法 (Morphological Analysis) 
 形態學分析法是由瑞典天文物理學家 Fritz Zwicky 所提出，是一種能夠系統
化的組合出多維的、非量化的複雜問題之所有集合之間的關係的方法[12-14]。形
態學分析法可以由輸入資料組合出各種模擬劇情，故可能辨識出使用者所忽略的
劇情。本研究中我們採用形態學分析法組合不同的攻擊目標路徑及攻擊者因素。 
 
2.3.EASI 模型 
EASI（Estimate of Adversary Sequence Interruption）[1, 3]是 1970 年由美國聖
 3
(1)關鍵實體建設防護的模擬分析 
(2)兩設施間危險物資的運輸安全模擬分析 
(3)基礎建設間的關聯關係性[11]模擬分析 
本年度的計劃建立此模擬分析平台的基礎架構和前兩項應用的模擬軟體，
未來將建構關聯關係性的模擬軟體[10]。此分析平台的的基本流程架構如圖 1 所
示；簡介如下： 
 
1.資產特性設定
(含場景 )
2.威脅設定
3.劇情組合
4.模擬
5.決策評估  
圖 1 模擬平台之流程 
 
步驟一：資產特性設定 (Asset/Scene Setting) 
步驟一為資產及相關場景的設定。首先要辨認要保護的資產及其特性；因為
保護的資產特性不同，其所面對的風險及採用的防護措施亦不同。資產特性包含
是否含放射性、危險性、及遭破壞後的影響等等。步驟一亦設定相關場景及防護，
可包含多層關卡，感應器、實體或是網路的防護/圍牆、載具等防護設備、保全
人員及鄰近支援的警力、軍隊、及路徑中的橋樑、隧道等。 
步驟二：威脅設定 (Threat/Attacker Setting) 
威脅的來源有很多，可能來自天災或意外，但我們的研究專注在人為的攻擊
上。步驟二為威脅（即攻擊者）的輸入設定；相關因素(factors) 包含攻擊者團體
大小、團體數量、武器裝備、位置、交通工具等。威脅的設定可從過去的案例中
蒐集資料、或參考法規的設計基準威脅(design base threats)。這些輸入因素將用
在後續模擬計算中。 
步驟三：劇情組合(scenario combination) 
一個攻擊劇含有一組攻擊者設定以及一組資產的設定；所以劇情就是由資產
設定和攻擊者設定所組合而來的。基礎建設防護模擬可分為單一劇情模擬、及自
動模式(多重劇情批次式(batch mode))模擬。攻擊者可能有一組以上的因素設定
(步驟二) 和一組以上的路徑。自動模式模擬可使用型態學分析法(Morphological 
Analysis)[12-14]，自動產生所有可能的攻擊組合，並將不合理的組合先刪除。 
 5
3.2 關鍵實體建設防護的模擬分析 
根據以上的模擬架構，我們首先完成了一套關鍵實體建設防護(critical 
physical protection system -PPS)的模擬軟體；假設被保護的基礎建設(例如核電廠)
具有網路及實體的多層防護，如圖 3 所示。各步驟詳述如下： 
 
圖3  相關場景 
步驟一：資產特性:  在這步驟中我們設定的是基礎建設內部的場景設施。在設
施設定方面，我們使用 EASI 的攻擊路徑序列(Adversary Sequence)算法，所以將
建築配置以層狀概念顯示，每一層(或區域)有數個可通過的設施(防護元件, 
Protection Element)，輸入設定防護元件的平均延遲(delay)時間及偏差(deviation)
時間；而每個防護元件上亦可裝上偵測器(Sensor)，可提高發現入侵者之機率。
防護配置如圖 4 所示。 
 
 
圖 4 防護配置示意圖 
 
步驟二 威脅設定:攻擊方有多項變因可輸入，包括裝備、武器、人數、有否計畫、
內應等，也有考慮電腦系統被破壞或操控的因素。威脅設定如圖 5所示。 
 
 7
 
圖 6 利用形態學分析法(Morphological analysis)組合劇情 
 
圖 7 自動模式批次式模擬 
 
圖 8 最好最壞的劇情 
 
 9
步驟二 威脅設定 :接著在地圖上(如圖 9)能增加一到數個威脅集團(以鬼臉圖案
表達)，每個威脅埋伏的地點可以從資產設定的設施及路線清單中勾選。當模擬
開始時，只有在貨車進入該威脅集團的攻擊範圍內，才會對貨車的運輸成功機率
發生影響。對每個集團可設定其交通工具、人數、武力、防禦等。 
 
步驟三 劇情組合:對批次(batch mode)模擬，我們以形態學分析法組合所有攻擊
方威脅設定，刪去矛盾的關係(如圖 6) ，路線選擇亦做所有的組合。 
 
步驟四 模擬: 由設定的威脅及路線所產生的組合產生各種攻擊劇情，我們採取
貝式信心網路(BBN)來對路程中被攻擊的點作成功通過機率的計算。即，各輸入
設定數值會影響防守成功機率，其相依性由貝式信心網路(BBN)表達、計算。 圖
10 顯示所用到的部份 BBN。再把每路程點算出的結果作乘積，也就是∏
=
n
i
iP
0
，其
中 Pi為第 i 步成功通過的機率，最後就得到整個運送過程能運送成功的機率。
此外，在單一劇情下，程式會以動態過程顯示由起點到終點所發生的各事件過
程，如圖 11 所示。 
 
Attacker number Weapon
Attack Power
attacker Defense Vehicle
Attacker Defense Degree
Attacker Performance
Facility Defense Degree
Impact from the Threat  
圖10  部份貝式信心網路 
 
 
圖11  單一劇情模擬 
 
 11
interruption on an IBM PC,” SAND Report 851105, 1985, pp.1-63. 
[4] J. DcLorenzo and D Murray, “National Safety & Security Field Operational Test: 
Technologies to Improve Security and Efficiency in the Hazardous Materials 
Transport Industry,” Proceedings of 38th Annual 2004 International Carnahan 
Conference on Security Technology, 2004, pp.28-33. 
[5] M. Dunn and I.Wigert, “International CIIP Handbook 2004,” Center for Security 
Studies, ETH, Zurich, 2004. 
[6] Google Maps API, http://code.google.com/apis/maps/. 
[7] B.Huang, R. Cheu,., and S. Yong, “GIS-AHP Model for HAZMAT Routing with 
Security Considerations,” IEEE 6th International Conference on Intelligent 
Transportation Systems, October 2003, pp. 1644-1649. 
[8] HUGIN EXPERT, www.hugin.com.  
[9] F.V. Jensen, An Introduction to Bayesian Networks, Springer, 1996. 
[10] P. Pederson, D. Dudenhoeffer, et al., “Critical Infrastructure Interdependency 
Modeling: A Survey of U.S. and International Research,” Idaho National 
Laboratory report INL/EXT-06-11464, August 2006. 
[11] S. M. Rinali, J. P. Peerenboom, and T. K. Kelly, “Identifying, Understanding, and 
Analysis Critical Infrastructure Interdependencies”, IEEE 2001 Control Systems 
Magazine, pp. 11-25. 
[12] T.  Ritchey, “Modeling Complex Socio-Technical Systems Using 
Morphological Analysis,” December 2002, 
http://www.swemorph.com/pdf/it-webart.pdf. 
[13] T. Ritchey, “Morphological Analysis A general method for non-quantified 
modeling,” 16th Euro Conference on Operational Analysis, Brussels, 1998, 
www.swemorph.com/pdf/gma.pdf. 
[14] T. Ritchey, “Nuclear Facilities and Sabotage: Using Morphological Analysis as a 
Scenario and Strategy Development Laboratory, ” the 44th Annual Meeting of the 
Institute of Nuclear Materials Management, Phoenix, Arizona, July 2003, 
http://www.swemorph.com/pdf/inmm-r2.pdf. 
[15] A. Wenger and V. Mauer, “International CIIP Handbook 2006,” Center for 
Security Studies (CSSS), ETH Zurich,April 4, 2006. 
145A Platform for Simulation and Analysis of Critical Infrastructure Protection
Abstract
　　The modeling and analysis of Critical (Informational) 
Infrastructure Protection (CIIP or CIP) is a relatively 
new and important field of study. Major countries 
have developed simulation tools to assess their CIIP 
performance. Taiwan should also establish its own 
capability in CIIP evaluation.  In the meantime, a common 
platform to simulate different protection targets is desirable. 
This paper describes a proposed platform for simulation 
and analysis of CIIP. We defined a process along with 
common components to modularize CIIP simulation tools 
so as to simplify their development. We have applied 
this approach to the implementation of a simulator for 
physical infrastructure protection and a simulator for 
critical materials transportation, along with the on-going 
implementation of a simulator for interdependency analysis. 
These simulators can simulate potential combinations of 
attack scenarios and compute the probabilities of successful 
defense. By comparing different scenarios, we can identify 
vulnerabilities of the examined CIIP, and then improvement 
can be designed. 
Keywords: Critical Infrastructures Protection, BBN, EASI, 
Interdependency, Simulation Platform.
1 Introduction 
　　Facilities which provide essential services of our daily 
life are called Critical Infrastructures (CI), such as power 
plants, water supply, transportation, etc. Once they are out 
of service, both security and economy of the society will be 
affected. Therefore, the protection of critical infrastructures 
is an important issue. After the terrorists attacks on the USA 
on September 11, 2001, many countries have viewed anti-
terrorists attacks as part of national defense. Various kinds 
of methods and tools were developed to simulate possible 
attack scenarios on Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) 
and to identify defense vulnerabilities [1]. Generally, CIP 
may be replaced by the term CIIP (Critical Information 
Infrastructure Protection) since most critical infrastructures 
use computers or are connected through network. However, 
an integrated simulation framework is desired to evaluate 
the effectiveness of CIIP.
　　Our research developed a general simulation platform 
for CIIP. The platform is suitable for constructing simulators 
analyzing different kinds of critical infrastructures. Three 
kinds of protection targets were considered: (1) physical 
critical infrastructure protection, (2) critical materials 
transportation, and (3) interdependencies between critical 
infrastructures [2]. We have conducted related research such 
as CIIP-CMM [3], interdependencies of multiple critical 
infrastructures under attack [4]. This research followed the 
previous work, and developed a simulation platform for 
construction of different CIIP simulators. This paper will 
describe the developed platform and processes, along with 
their application to the construction of three simulators, 
namely a simulator for a physical protection system, a 
simulator for critical materials transportation, as well as an 
interdependency simulator currently under construction.
2 Background 
　　Related background includes CIIP Handbooks [5-7], 
Morphological Analysis [8][9], BBN [10], EASI model [11]
[12], and interdependencies [2].
2.1 CIIP Handbooks 
　　“International Critical Information Infrastructure 
Protection (CIIP) Handbook” [5-7] has been referred to as 
the Bible of the infrastructure protection practices. The first 
version, published in 2002, addressed national protection 
activities in eight countries; the 2004 version surveyed 
fourteen countries [5]; the 2006 version surveyed twenty 
countries [6]; the 2008/2009 version contains an inventory 
of 25 national and 7 international CIIP policies [7]. These 
handbooks provide an overview of CIIP practices in an 
increasingly wide range of countries. They address current 
CIIP practices in major countries, along with methods, 
analysis models, plans, and related legal issues. 
2.2 Morphological Analysis 
　　Morphological analysis is an analysis method 
developed by Swedish astrophysicist, Fritz Zwicky [8]. 
This is a systematic combination method which can 
explore all possible solutions to a multi-dimensional, non-
quantifiable complex problem. Suppose there is a product 
which can be made from three possible materials, and made 
A Platform for Simulation and Analysis of Critical Infrastructure Protection
Li-Jung Kuo1, Chin-Feng Fan1, Swu Yih2, Yung-Yu Kao1, Ching-Ting Lin1
1Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan-Ze University
2 Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, Ching Yun University
Taiwan, R.O.C.
 1csfanc@saturn.yzu.edu.tw, 2swuyih@cyu.edu.tw
147A Platform for Simulation and Analysis of Critical Infrastructure Protection
3 The Simulation Platform 
　　We propose that a generic CIIP simulation platform 
includes the components shown in Figure 2. First, the 
platform has two major parts: the user interface part and 
the computation part. The computation part consists of 
several modules: asset characteristics, threat characteristics, 
scenario combination, scenario simulation, outcome 
presentation, and vulnerability analysis. These components 
communicate with each other through parameter passing. 
The process of this simulation platform has five major steps: 
asset setting, threat setting, input scenario combination, 
simulation, and results analysis. The steps shown in Figure 
3 are explained below.
Figure 2  Model of Our Simulation Platform
　　Step 1 is asset setting, including scene setting. For 
example, for physical CIs the asset may include the asset 
characteristics and its protection elements such as sensors, 
windows, fences, as well as supporting man power (guard, 
police, or army). Path setting is also included as part of 
the scene. Related input parameters include protection 
elements’ detection probabilities, delay time, and the 
guard’s response time, etc.
Figure 3 The Generic Process of CIIP Simulators
　　At Step 2, threat setting is performed as input.  There 
are many kinds of threats including natural disasters, or 
man-made accidents. We focused on malicious terrorists 
attacks. Threat factors may include: attacker group size, 
number of groups, their equipment, vehicles, locations, 
plans, etc. Potential threat information can be obtained from 
past cases or expert judgment.  
　　A complete attack scenario includes asset characte-
ristics, the scene, and the attacker profiles. At Step 3, input 
scenario combinations are generated. This step uses the 
morphological analysis to combine all possible defense 
and attack profiles, with conflicting pairs deleted. Such 
exhaustive approach may reveal some unforeseen scenarios, 
which may be new and dreadful. For instance, the 9-11 
terrorists attacks on the US is one of such unanticipated 
cases.
　　At Step 4, simulation is performed. In general, two 
simulation modes are implemented; that is, a single scenario 
mode and a batch mode. The former shows detailed 
progress or animation of one particular scenario. The 
latter automatically computes probabilities of all possible 
scenario combinations at batch, and then sorts results in 
order based on the probabilities of successful defense. In 
the simulation, different formulae or computation methods 
can be used. For example, for our physical CIIP simulator, 
EASI [11][12] formula was used;  for the transportation 
case, BBNs were used to compute causal inference among 
factors; for the interdependency simulator, IIM [18] 
computation is extended and will be used for computation. 
　　At the last step, result analysis is performed. After 
simulation, the user can check information of each attack 
scenario, such as the scenario identifier, the attacker profile, 
the asset layout, and the probability of successful defense. 
The list of simulated results can be sorted, as mentioned 
above, and the best and the worst cases can be identified. 
Then, the decision maker may use the information to 
identify the CIIP’s vulnerabilities and perform CIIP 
modification. The simulation details can also be viewed 
from Figure 4. 
Figure 4  Another View of Simulation Details
Platform of 
Simulation and Analysis of CIIP
Module of Asset 
characteristics
Module of Threat 
characteristics
Module of  Scenario 
combination
Module of Simulation
& Computation
Module of outcome 
presentation
Module of 
vulnerability analysis
User Interface
t
C t ristics C
 f 
C i tion
l ti n
 
odule of O t e
P V Analysis
1.Asset Setting
(Scene setting)
2.Threat Setting
(Attacker setting)
3.Input Scenario
Combinations
4.Simulation
5.Result Analysis
Defense Scenario 
Combination
(Morphological Analysis )
Attack Scenario 
Combination
(Morphological Analysis )
Result Assessment
Threat Setting Asset/scene Setting
Scenario Combination
Multiple scenarios Single scenario
Simulation at batch Simulation with animation
Sl  S
B A
149A Platform for Simulation and Analysis of Critical Infrastructure Protection
Figure 7 Path Setting
　　The next step is threat setting. An interface similar 
to that of truck setting (Figure 5) is given. Factors related 
to attackers include attackers’ weapons, vehicles, defense 
power, number of attackers, and the attacker location, etc. 
The factors can also be used as inputs to form a BBN for 
the degree of impact from the threat, as shown in Figure 8. 
Positions of attackers can also be marked on the map using 
face icons.
Figure 8 Impact from the Threat
　　For batch-mode simulation, a morphological style 
of combinations is used first to compose the potential 
combinations of attacker and defense profiles. A sample 
of such a morphological analysis is shown in Figure 9; in 
which the unneeded combinations are marked with a check 
mark. BBNs are then used to calculate the probability of 
successful transportation. The final BBN is shown in Figure 
10. When the truck entered the attack range of an attacker, 
the truck will be under attack. Whenever the truck is under 
attack, the computation of the BBNs will be performed 
once. Final success probability is the product of all the 
attack events; i.e. ∏=
n
i
iP
0
 where Pi is the success probability of 
the i-th attack along the transportation route. 
Figure 9 Morphological Analysis 
Figure 10 Successful Transportation
　　In single-scenario mode, the simulator will show the 
motion of the entire trip, as shown in Figure 11. In batch 
mode, calculation will be performed at the background. 
The progress percentage and result probabilities, as shown 
in Figure 12, are drawn in charts during simulation. 
Afterwards, the best and the worst scenarios along with 
their routes on the map will be given as results. Figure 13 
shows results of a sample run. 
Figure 11 Single-Scenario Simulation
Attacker number Weapon
Attack Power
attacker Defense Vehicle
Attacker Defense Degree
Attacker Performance
Facility Defense Degree
Impact from the Threat
A
Robustness of the 
truck defense
Impact from 
the threat
Successful transportation
Tr  Defens
Tr r
Thre t
151A Platform for Simulation and Analysis of Critical Infrastructure Protection
　　In batch-mode simulation, the morphological analysis, 
as that shown in Figure 9, is performed to generate all 
potential combinations of attack paths as well as those of 
the attacker profiles. Conflicting pairs are deleted. The 
attack paths are obtained from the asset setting, i.e., the 
layers and their protection elements. Then simulation 
scenarios can be produced by combining the attack paths 
and the attacker profiles. The number of potential scenarios 
is the product of the number of attack paths and that of 
the attacker profiles. For example, the number of attack 
paths for Figure 15 is 3. The attacker profiles include such 
factors: weapons (gun, bomb), equipment (none, fake ID), 
group sizes (single, 5 persons, 10 persons), plans (none, 
detailed), strategies (poor, good), insiders (with, without), 
vehicle (none, car, armored vehicle). Then the number of 
possible attacker profiles is 288, which is the product of all 
of the above choices. The number of simulation runs will 
then be 864 (3∙288).
　　The simulator then calls the EASI tool [12] and feeds 
it with initial parameters. The initial parameters include 
a detection function (PD) for each protection element, the 
delay time (T) required by an adversary to travel a distinct 
path segment or perform some tasks, and response force 
time (RFT) for the guard. The delay time T is simplified and 
associated with each protection element.  Both the detection 
function (PD) and delay time (T) of a protection element are 
inputs. We adjusted them positively or negatively according 
to the above threat settings; namely, attacker’s weapon, 
equipment, group sizes, plans, and strategies, etc.
　　The EASI tool [12] will then compute and output the 
probability of interruption (PI) to the simulator to display. 
Similarly, both a single scenario mode and a batch mode 
are provided. Results of sample batch runs with the best 
and worst scenarios are shown in Figure 16.
Figure 16 Batch-Mode Results for the Physical Protection 
　　　　　   Simulator
　　Several cases have been tested on this simulator 
successfully. Since the EASI calculation is fast, large 
numbers of scenario cases can be simulated rapidly. In 
our experiments, we identified the following related to 
attackers: fake IDs are the most effective; plans, strategies, 
and insiders are more important than other factors; a large 
group of attackers or attackers with vehicles are easily 
detected. In another sample run, the result indicated a 
window without sensors was a vulnerable point.  Results 
showed that this simulator was quite efficient even with 
a large amount of attack scenarios. With morphological 
analysis for scenario combination, some unforeseen but 
dangerous scenarios could be revealed.
6 An Interdependency Simulator under 
Construction 
　　On this platform, a simulator for analyzing critical 
infrastructure interdependencies is currently being 
constructed. A GIS-based interdependency input is 
used, as shown in Figure 17. Locations and types of 
Critical infrastructures can be marked on the map; types 
and connections of interdependencies among these 
infrastructures can also be dragged on the map and selected 
by check boxes. If desired, the input can be automatically 
converted into a layered display during simulation, as 
shown in Figure 18. Similar interfaces as those in the above 
two simulators are used for asset setting, threat setting, and 
scenario combination.
Figure 17 Input in the Interdependency Simulator
153A Platform for Simulation and Analysis of Critical Infrastructure Protection
Development Laboratory, the 44th Annual Meeting 
of the Institute of Nuclear Materials Management, 
Phoenix, Arizona, July, 2003, http://www.swemorph.
com/pdf/inmm-r2.pdf
[10] F. V. Jensen, An Introduction to Bayesian Networks, 
Springer, 1996.
[11] H. A. Bennett, The EASI Approach to Physical 
Security Evaluation, SAND Report 76500, 1977, 
pp.1-35.
[12] L. D. Chapman and C. P. Harlan, EASI Estimate of 
Adversary Sequence Interruption on an IBM PC, 
SAND Report 851105, 1985, pp.1-63.
[13] HUGIN EXPERT, www.hugin.com
[14] D. D. Dudenhoeffer,  M. R. Permann and M. 
Manic, CIMS: A Framework for Infrastructure 
Interdependency Modeling and Analysis, Proceedings 
of the IEEE 2006 Winter Simulation Conference, 
pp.478-485. 
[15] M. J. North, P. R. Thimmapuram, et al., EMCAS: An 
Agent-Based Tool for Modeling Electricity Markets, 
Proceedings of the Agent 2003 Conference on 
Challenges in Social Simulation, October, 2003.
[16] S. Panzieri, R. Setola and G. Ulivi, An Agent Based 
Simulator for Critical Interdependent Infrastructures, 
Proceedings of Securing Critical Infrastructure, 
Grenoble, October, 2004.
[17] R. Axelrod and M. D. Cohen, Harnessing Complexity: 
Organizational Implications of a Scientific Frontier, 
New York, Free Press, 1999, pp.32-61.
[18] J. R. Santos and Y. Y. Haimes, Modeling the Demand 
Reduction Input-Output Inoperability Due to 
Terrorism of Interconnected Infrastructures, Risk 
Analysis, Vol.24, Issue 6, pp.1437-1451.
[19] Bo Huang, Cheu Ruey Long and Yong Seng Liew, 
GIS-AHP Model for HAZMAT Routing with Security 
Considerations, IEEE 6th International Conference 
on Intelligent Transportation Systems, October, 2003, 
pp.1644-1649.
[20] J. DcLorenzo and D. Murray, National Safety & 
Security Field  Operational Test: Technologies to 
Improve Security and Efficiency in the Hazardous 
Materials Transport Industry, Proceedings of 38th 
Annual 2004 International Carnahan Conference on 
Security Technology, 2004, pp.28-33.
Biographies 
Li-Jung Kuo received the M.S. degree 
in computer science and engineering 
from Yuan-Ze University, Taiwan, in 
2008. He is currently in military service. 
His research interest is mainly in 
software engineering. 
Chin-Feng Fan received the Ph.D. 
degree  in  compute r  sc ience  and 
engineering from Southern Methodist 
Universi ty,  Dallas ,  USA.  She is 
currently an associate professor at 
Computer Science and Engineering 
Department of Yuan-Ze University, 
Taiwan. Her research interests include software engineering 
and safety- critical computing.
Swu Yih received the Ph.D. degree in 
computer science and engineering from 
Southern Methodist University, Dallas, 
USA.  He is currently an associate 
professor at Computer Engineering 
and Information Science Department 
of Ching-Yun University, Taiwan. 
His research interests include software safety, software 
reliability, and software engineering. 
Yung-Yu Kao received the M.S. degree 
in computer science and engineering 
from Yuan-Ze University in Jan. 2007. 
His research interests include software 
engineering and network management. 
He is currently working in Foxconn 
International Holdings Co., Ltd.
Ching-Ting Lin is currently working 
for his master’s degree at Computer 
Science and Engineering Department 
of  Yuan-Ze University. His research 
interest is in software engineering. 
