2目錄
1. 研究計畫之背景及目的………………………………………………………………………………2
2. 研究方法………………………………………………………………………………………………4
3. 結果與討論……………………………………………………………………………………………7
4. 計畫成果自評…………………………………………………………………………………………10
5. 參考文獻………………………………………………………………………………………………12
報告內容
1. 研究計畫之背景及目的
In the past few years, there were many efforts from governments, research groups and companies to
push the solid-state light sources to become a new star for lighting which have been dominated by
incandescent and fluorescence. The incandescent light sources have the longest history for modern
lighting technology begun since the light bulb was invented. They are used for general lighting however
they are not efficient enough until now (15% efficiency), produce heat, and have short lifetime. The
fluorescence light sources have higher efficiency (30%-40%) and can be used for lighting and display.
However their lifetime and environmental issue are the problems for applications. Solid state light
sources have been identified to have the potential to circumvent the problems of these two types of
conventional lamps.
There are several advantages of using light-emitting diodes (LEDs) instead of conventional lamps in
illumination and display systems. LEDs have a very long lifetime (no more lamp replacement needed),
are small, have a low voltage (can be easily operated on batteries), can be switched fast (so no
additional color switching devices are needed in color sequential display systems), and have better
chromatic performance. However the performance of LEDs has been such that it was only enough for a
single color indicator and other low-lumen white light illumination applications. It was not sufficient
even for the least demanding of a light bulb or a display (since the blue LED was not practical until
1990s and was weak until the recent few years).
Recently high power LED chips become available because of improvements from device structure
and materials, which are changing this picture. The flux output from LEDs has been increasing
exponentially for the last decade [17] and the LED makers will continue to improve the brightness of
LEDs in the future. Using LEDs as the new light sources becomes feasible. New applications include
the traffic-signal lamps and the pixelated LED-array outdoor display. In these applications, arrays of
RGB-LEDs are used and broad emitting angles together with large emitting areas are required.
For the other display applications, such as those in office and home, white light LEDs with color
separation scheme or RGB LEDs should be used provides triple-color images and they can be combined
to be a full-color image. Certainly array of LEDs should be used to provide sufficient light energy.
Replacing the traditional white lamp with white-light LEDs or RGB-LEDs is not only required to
improve the system efficiency but also to decrease the size of the total system [14]. There are many
efforts on developing LED-based thin LCD backlight [7-11] and miniature data-projector [1-6]. Now,
there are new commercial products using white light LEDs as the backlight source, such as Sony’s
VAIO TX-series notebook (see the figure below). Although there were also prototypes of
4is good in that the entire optical beam can be coupled into small area or high f-number optical elements.
When referring to an optical component in the optical path, a high etendue value is good, because the
optical element can then be utilize the entire contents of a large optical beam. A display system is
referred to as“etendue-limited”when there is some optical element or combination of optical elements
in the system whose etendue is lower than the etendue of the optical beam produced by the light source.
In this situation, the full number of lumens in the beam can not be utilized by the display system. If the
etendue values of the optical components are all larger than the etendue of the light source, the display
system would be capable of using the entire contents of the optical beam from the light source. In this
case, the display system is said to be“not etendue limited”.
For LED light devices, the light emitting property is small emitting area and large emitting angle.
However, LED arrays must be used for total flux requirement of display applications, so the emitting
area of the LED lamp could be large. For display application, we have to investigate whether the system
can be designed to be etendue limited or not. Furthermore, it will have big impact on expansion of the
LED applications to investigate how to design an etendue efficient LED lamp and hence an optical
display system.
2. 研究方法
In this project, we shall evaluate and optimize the light collection efficiency of a display system
using white LEDs or RGB-LEDs as the light source. Optical simulation is used to estimate and optimize
the performances of optical components and display system before fabrication. Measurements are used
to get parameters for optical simulation and check the results for fabrication. However some of the
optical simulation and measurement methods need to be developed and can be regarded as the
important research issues in this project.
For fully understanding the light beam propagation behaviors, we have to go to where the light
emits. From the measurement of LEDs’near-field characteristics, we would like to develop an optical
model for LED devices so that we can make further design and simulation on the light-emitting
property since our goal is to build up an etendue efficient LED lamp and hence a display system. By
optical simulation tools for illumination optics and imaging optics, we can calculate the etendue values
of the optical elements and find the limiting aperture of the whole system. This process will rely on the
experience of choosing suitable optical components and system configuration for optimizing the
efficiency. The least etendue component will set the limit for the LED lamp design and can be feedback
to the lamp design procedure. Finally we can design an etendue efficient display system and build up a
prototype of high efficient display system. The most critical steps in this project are described in the
following:
(1) Although we will adopt the concept of etendue to estimate the geometric factor of the light
collection efficiency of the system, the etendue for optical components can be calculated relatively
easily by approximately assuming their independence. Aiming at precisely predicting the behavior
of optical beam in the display system, the simulation part of this project should be implemented by
developing an optical ray-tracing method to keep track of both ray and intensity [15]. This approach
generally produces the most accurate throughput estimate, however a high degree of skill in optical
modeling program and a detailed knowledge of the optical design are required. We will develop an
6the basis for optical modeling of LED devices and lens design for light collimating.
(5) The result of the light collection of the LED light source or LED lamp can be measured by using the
integrating sphere system (see the figure below) and can be compared with the estimation of optical
simulation. In the same way, the light collection efficiencies of other optical components, such as
the polarization converter, color managing units, and microdisplay, can be designed, measured, and
checked the consistency.
(6) The compactness of LED light source, as compared with conventional light source, should be
further utilized in the display system design (see the figures below for an example that PI have done
when he was in ITRI). A high efficient and compact display system will be built up and the optical
characteristics will be examined. For academic interest, this prototype can be used to verify the
optical model. For industrial interest, this prototype can be used to be a feasible study of
miniaturized display products.
All we have discussed above are focused on the optical properties of the display system. For the
mechanical parts of the system, the most volume may be contributed from the cooling system. This
can be solved by high efficient micro-cooling techniques which should be resorted to the sub-project
4. The other possible big and heavy part may be the power supply sub-system. However this would
be beyond the scope of the integrated project. Now there have been several alternative battery
solutions, such as fuel battery, hybrid re-charger, etc.
The measured image and near field light distribution of an LED chip
Apparatus for measuring lumen vs. etendue [13]
8(2) Find the limit aperture with the lowest etendue value. The condition for optimized etendue and
efficiency can be obtained [21].
(3) By optimizing the reflectors and lightpipe, compact LED projection engines can be built up [22].
(4) The etendue of OLED panel is quite large. By attaching microstructures, the efficiency can be
enhanced. [23-28] However, the image quality can be degraded by the microstructure attachment.
We have studied on low blur effect and high light extraction efficiency enhancement of organic light
emitting displays with novel microstructure attachment [24]
Type I
Type II
Length of light tunnel +-
10
Suppression of the Moiré Phenomenon for an OLED Display with Hollow Microlens Array
4. 計畫成果自評
This research not only has great academic research value, but also has immediate market value. The
solid stste lighting has become the next generation technology to change human life. The light emitting
12
Projectors”, SID 04, pp. 943-945, 2004.
[21] Shuang-Chao Chung, C.C. Lin, T.Y. Chen H.H. Lo, C.X. Tseng, “Compact and High Efficiency
LED Projection Display,” SID06, p205.
[22] Shuang-Chao Chung , C.C. Lin, H.H. Lo, C.X. Tseng, “High colecting eficiency of an LED 
projection system,” SPIE Photonics West, paper. 6489_6.
LED backlight
[7] A. Perduijn, S. de Krijger, J. Claessens, N. Kaito, T. Yagi, S. T. Hsu, M. Sakakibara, T. Ito, and S.
Okada, Light output feedback solution for RGB LED backlight applications, SID 03, pp. 1254-1258,
2003.
[8] Robert Scott West, Huub Konijn, Simon Kuppens, Nicola Pfeffer, Quint van Voorst Vader, Yourii
Martynov, Tewe Heemstra, Jan Sanders, Takaaki Yagi, and Gerard Harbers, LED backlight for large
area LCD TV’s, SID 03, 2003
[9] Yourii Martynov, Huub Konijn, Nicola Pfeffer, Simon Kuppens and Wim Timmers, High-efficiency
slim LED backlight system with mixing light guide, SID 03, 2003.
[10] R. S. West, H. Konijn, W. Sillevis-Smitt, S. Kuppens, N. Pfeffer, Y. Martynov, Takaaki Yagi, S.
Eberle, G. Harbers, T. W. Tan, and C. E. Chan, High Brightness Direct LED Backlight for LCD-TV,
SID 03, 2003.
[11] Wiep Folkerts, LED Backlighting Concepts with High Flux LEDs, SID 04, pp. 1226-1229, 2004.
Optical System Modeling
[12] R. W. Boyd, Radiometry and the Detection of Optical Radiation, pp. 89-93, Wiley, New York
1983.
[13] Edward H. Stupp and Matthew S. Brennesholtz, Projection Displays, p. 360, John Wiley and Sons,
1999.
[14] D. A. Stanton, J. A. Shimizu, J. E. Dean, "Three-Lamp Single-Device Projector", SID '96 Digest of
Technical Papers, p. 839, 1996.
[15] J. Schweyen, K. Garcia, and P. Gleckman,“Geometrical Optical Modeling Considerations for LCD
projector display systems”, Projection Displays III, SPIE Proc. Vol. 3013, pp. 126-140, 1997.
[16] Benjamin A. Jacobson, Robert D. Gengelbach, Charles N. Stewart, and Douglas M. Rutan, Metal
Halide Lighting Systems and Optics for High Efficiency Compact LCD Projectors, Photonics West,
1998.
[17] M. G. Craford, N. Holonyak, Jr., and F. A. Kish, Jr., In Pursuit of the Ultimate Lamp, Scientific
Am., pp. 63-67, Feb. 2001.
[18] Kenneth Li,“Etendue Eficient Dual Paraboloid Reflector and PolarizationRecycling System for
Projection Display”, SID MicroDisplay 02, 2002.
[19] Mary Leu Jepsen,“Microdisplay LCoS Panel Throughput Estimates for Low f-number Projection
System”SPIE Photonics West 02, 2002.
[20] Radiant Image Ltd., see http://www.radimg.com/.
[23] H.-Y. Lin, J.-H. Lee, M.-K. Wei, C.-L. Dai, C.-F. Wu, Y.-H. Ho, H.-Y. Lin, and T.-C. Wu,
Improvement of outcoupling efficiency of an organic light-emitting device by attaching microstructured
