from surrounding gold film is green. Transmission spectrum of smooth gold film is 
shown in fig. 4 (blue line). Fig. 1(b) shows slits on 200nm aluminum film illuminated by 
white light, also with s-polarized excitation. The background of this figure is much less 
than the background of fig. 1(a). This is because aluminum film is approx. twice thicker 
than the gold film. In addition, the skin depth of gold and aluminum at 520nm 
wavelength are approx. 19.4nm and 6.5nm, respectively. In fig. 1(b), slit’s color does not 
change as slit width decrease from top to bottom, only the brightness decreases as slit 
width decreases. The behavior of aluminum slit with s-polarized excitation can be 
understood by the waveguide modes qualitatively. Slit can be regard as a rectangular 
waveguide with tens micron length and sub-micron width. Note that for a rectangular 
waveguide, TE10 mode is the lowest propagating mode with cutoff frequency ω= cπ/α, 
where α is the larger length. With s-polarized excitation, slit has lowest propagating 
TE10 mode whose cut-off frequency is only dependent on slit length and independent on 
slit width. With the same length and under s-polarized excitation, all aluminum slits 
differed in width have the same cut-off frequency in deep infrared region. Since we are 
interested in visible transmission spectrum, none of the aluminum slits are cut-off; all of 
them exhibit the same color. However, the slits on gold film with s-polarized excitation 
clearly exhibit behavior that can not be explained by the simple waveguide theory. 
 
 
Figure 3 shows transmitted spectrum of a single 500nm, 300nm and 100nm gold slit with 
s-polarized excitation. Contributions from the surrounding gold film is carefully removed 
as described in the experimental section. Higher transmission in longer wavelength is 
clearly visible in 100nm slit. When the slit width increases to 500nm, comparable to 
incident wavelength, the transmitted spectrum looks similar to light source spectrum. The 
transmission spectrum of 300nm slit shows transient behavior. The reason for this 
behaviors might be able to attributed to surface plasmon contribution, at least 
qualitatively. Although surface plasmon wave should contribute to the transmission 
mechanism in both gold and aluminum slit. However, the gold slit has a resonance 
frequency but aluminum slit does not. In the aluminum slit, surface plasmon wave 
assisted transmission does not have a resonance within the visible spectrum that we are 
probing, so small aluminum slits have the same transmission spectrum as larger slits. 
However, in gold slits, surface plasmon resonance is in the red part of the spectrum. That 
is why the 100nm gold slit looks red but the 500nm gold slit looks like a “white” line. 
 
 
To quantitatively check above statements, FDTD simulation are compared with the 
experimental results. To check the FDTD calculation, the results of a transmission 
through the gold film is first compared with experiments, shown in Fig. 4. The agreement 
is quite well. The FDTD simulation on the film transmission spectrum is consistent with 
the experimental results. Thus we have perform calculation on 120nm gold slit with 
s-polarized excitation. There are two main disagreement between calculation and 
experiment. First at the blue-edge, from 400 to 500nm, there is a mono-decrease in 
experimental transmission, but the calculation result exhibit flat response. Secondly, the 
