 2 
magnetic
flux
MR fluid
coil
piston
The PID algorithm is the most popular feedback controller used within the 
process industries. It has been successfully used for over 60 years. It can provide 
excellent control performance despite the varied dynamic characteristics of 
process plant [7]. Fuzzy logic may tune each parameter of PID controller. 
Mamdani is the first researcher using fuzzy logic to control steam engine in 
1974 [8]. In recent years, fuzzy logic control (FLC) had been applied to control 
many devices, and many researchers suggested combining the FLC with other 
controllers. For example, there are fuzzy sliding mode controllers (FSMC), fuzzy 
PID controller, fuzzy-PI controller etc. Chen and Chang [9] employed an 
optimal design method to FSMC. Huang and Lin [10] used adaptive fuzzy 
control with sliding surface to vehicle suspension control. Shaw et al. [11] 
applied FSMC to control an MR mount for vibration attenuation. 
Some researchers study about application of a self-tuning fuzzy PID 
controller to overcome the appearance of nonlinearities and uncertainties in the 
vibration systems. The self-tuning fuzzy PID controller is the combination of a 
classical PID and fuzzy controller. Fuzzy logic is used to tune each parameter of 
the PID controller [12][13]. 
In this paper, a self-tuning fuzzy PID controller is developed to improve the 
performance of the semi-active control system with the MR mount in the 
attenuation of vibration. 
2.   MR mount design 
The MR mount includes current coil and iron parts. We wind the wire around the 
piston to make a simple electromagnet. The design parameters of the vibration 
isolation system with MR mount contain load mass, displacement, spring 
constant, yield shear stress of MR fluid and resonance frequency of system. 
Design structure of MR mount is shown in Figure 1. The simulated magnetic 
flux density by using the Magneto software is given in Figure 2. The relationship 
between magnetic flux density and the applied current is illustrated in Figure 3. 
We use MR fluid made by Lord Ltd (MRF-122EG). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.  MR mount diagram. 
 4 
mass
spring
base
MR fluid
coil
piston
 
Figure 4.  Schematic diagram and photo of MR mount. 
4.   Self-tuning fuzzy PID Controller 
The self-tuning fuzzy PID control block diagram is shown in Figure 5. The 
control value of fuzzy controller is utilized to tune parameters of PID controller. 
The design procedures are as follows. 
(a) First, choose three parameters of PID to set the fuzzy relationship 
between deviation ( e )/deviation rate ( ec ) and these three parameters. 
(b)  Check the deviation ( e ) and deviation rate ( ec ) gradually. According 
to fuzzy control principle, revise these three parameters on-line in order 
to satisfy the requirement of control parameters in various e and ec . 
(c)  According to the rule, the parameters ( Pk , Ik and Dk ) can self-tune in 
different e and ec . 
fuzzy controller PID  controller
vibration
system
   setting
parameters
ec
r e+
-
Y
 
Figure 5.   The fuzzy PID control block diagram 
Absolute deviation e and absolute deviation rate ec are the input variables. 
Each variable state in this system can be subdivided into a range of small (S), 
middle(M), and big(B) whose membership functions are depicted in Figure 6.  
The fuzzy controller has only 5 rules regulating the inputs ( e , ec )and output 
( Pk , Ik , Dk ). The antecedents of the 5 rules are:  
 6 
5.   Experimental results 
The experimental setup for studying the vibration attenuation capability of the 
MR mount is shown in Figure 7. Two displacement sensors are used to detect 
vibrations at x and y places. The sinusoidal disturbance )(ty with single 
frequency between 2Hz~30Hz and amplitude at 0.15 mm  is employed as the 
base excitation. Vibration amplitude reductions by the skyhook, PID and self-
tuning fuzzy PID controllers are illustrated in Figure 8, from which the fuzzy 
PID controller outperforms other controllers near the resonant frequency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7.  The experimental setup 
5 10 15 20 25 30
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
 
 
Am
pl
itu
de
(m
m
)
frequency(Hz)
 no control
 skyhook control
 PID control
 Fuzzy PID control
 
Figure 8.  Amplitude of vibration attenuation for 2Hz~30Hz disturbance 
 
 
  
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期： 99 年 9 月12
                                   
 日 
一、參加會議經過 
    國際電流變液及磁流變液會議每 2年舉辦一次，今年是由美國費城 Temple 大學的 Professor 
Tao主辦第十二屆國際電流變液及磁流變液會議，共有 23個國家 143篇論文發表， 包含美國、英
國、德國、法國、澳洲、中國、日本、韓國、俄羅斯、巴西、土耳其、捷克、波蘭、挪威、匈牙
利、墨西哥、比利時、芬蘭、西班牙、冰島、越南、拉脫維亞及台灣。其中以美國參與發表最多
共 32 篇，其次是中國 27 篇，德國 18 篇，日本 12 篇。由各國發表論文篇數顯示科技先進國家對
此領域研究的重視，其中美國、德國、荷蘭等有 5 家廠商研究人員參加並對此國際研討會提供贊
助，特別是美國 LORD 公司每屆都提供美金 500元獎金給表現優秀的研究生，鼓勵後學的學子。 
    研討會各項子題包含電流變液材料、電流變液性質、磁流變液材料、磁流變液性質、電流變
液應用及磁流變液應用等。電流變液材料目前仍未能達到產業使用規格的穩定性，而磁流變液有
較穩定的特性，故已有一些磁流變液應用的試用產品問世如磁流變液煞車器、磁流變液離合器、
磁流變液阻尼器等。研討會場也有贊助廠商展示攤位，如 Anton Paar公司銷售電流變液及磁流變
液材料特性量測設備，O-BASF公司及 LORD公司也銷售電流變液及磁流變液材料。Strem公司銷售
電流變液電源放大器等。 
  
           圖 1 參加研討會人員團體照                        圖 2 論文報告 
計畫編號 NSC98－2221－E－236－008－5152 
計畫名稱 智慧型流動式磁流變液阻尼器設計及應用於半主動懸吊系統之控制(I) 
出國人員
姓名 
郭文化 
服務機構
及職稱 
東南科技大學 機電科技學系 副教授 
會議時間 99年 8月 16日至 
99年 8月 20日 
會議地點 美國賓州費城雙樹大飯店(Doubletree Hotel, Philadelphia, PA, USA) 
會議名稱 
(中文)第十二屆國際電流變液及磁流變液會議 
(英文) The 12th International Conference on Electrorheological (ER) Fluids  
and Magnetorheological (MR) Suspensions  
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 1. 新型流動模式磁流變液阻尼器 
2.應用於隔震磁流變液減震支座之半主動控制 
(英文) 1. A Novel Type of Flow Mode Magnetorheological Damper,  
  2. A Semi-active Control of MR Mount for Vibration Isolation, 
 3 
論文 
A Semi-active Control of MR Mount f or Vibration Isolation 
 
W. H. KUO 
 Department of Mechatronic Technology, Tungnan University, 
Taipei, 22202, Taiwan 
R. PAN¹, J. SHAW¹, G. LIN² 
¹Institute of Mechatronic Engineering, National Taipei University of Technology, Taipei, 10608, Taiwan 
² Institute of Mechatronic Engineering, Tungnan University, Taipei, 22202, Taiwan 
In this paper, developments of a MR mount for vibration attenuation are presented. First, an MR 
mount was designed, and analysis of the magnetic circuits by using the magneto V64 software was 
conducted, followed by calculating the corresponding magnetic flux density and the 
magnetorheological fluid yield shear stress. Then, this MR mount was manufactured and filled with 
MR fluid (MRF-122EG made by Lord Ltd), and a single degree of freedom system with the MR 
mount is set up for vibration validation. Utilizing various controllers like the skyhook, PID and 
self-tuning fuzzy PID controllers, the damping effects of the MR mount are conducted. Experimental 
results show that it has better damping effectiveness by using the self-tuning fuzzy PID controller 
than the other controllers for the semi-active control system with the MR mount. 
Introduction 
In order to reduce unwanted vibration of a vibrating system, various types of mounts are adopted either in 
passive, semi-active or active control manner. They have advantages and disadvantages, depending on their 
applications. Recently, the adjustable semi-active mounts have been designed by incorporating 
magneto-rheological (MR) fluids [1-3]. A semi-active control technique can provide real-time dissipation of 
the system energy, which has proved to provide better performance than the passive control, and which 
saves energy better than active control. Karnopp et al. [4] used semi-active force generators to vibration 
control. Lu [5] studied active and semi-active air-spring suspension systems and compared the performances. 
MR fluids had been studied in many applications of semi-active control. Dyke and Spence [6] proposed the 
MR dampers for seismic protection.  
The PID algorithm is the most popular feedback controller used within the process industries. It has 
been successfully used for over 60 years. It can provide excellent control performance despite the varied 
dynamic characteristics of process plant [7]. Fuzzy logic may tune each parameter of PID controller. 
Mamdani is the first researcher using fuzzy logic to control steam engine in 1974 [8]. In recent years, 
fuzzy logic control (FLC) had been applied to control many devices, and many researchers suggested 
combining the FLC with other controllers. For example, there are fuzzy sliding mode controllers (FSMC), 
fuzzy PID controller, fuzzy-PI controller etc. Chen and Chang [9] employed an optimal design method to 
FSMC. Huang and Lin [10] used adaptive fuzzy control with sliding surface to vehicle suspension control. 
Shaw et al. [11] applied FSMC to control an MR mount for vibration attenuation. 
Some researchers study about application of a self-tuning fuzzy PID controller to overcome the 
appearance of nonlinearities and uncertainties in the vibration systems. The self-tuning fuzzy PID controller 
is the combination of a classical PID and fuzzy controller. Fuzzy logic is used to tune each parameter of the 
PID controller [12][13]. 
In this paper, a self-tuning fuzzy PID controller is developed to improve the performance of the 
semi-active control system with the MR mount in the attenuation of vibration. 
MR mount design 
The MR mount includes current coil and iron parts. We wind the wire around the piston to make a simple 
electromagnet. The design parameters of the vibration isolation system with MR mount contain load mass, 
displacement, spring constant, yield shear stress of MR fluid and resonance frequency of system. Design 
structure of MR mount is shown in Figure 1. The simulated magnetic flux density by using the Magneto 
software is given in Figure 2. The relationship between magnetic flux density and the applied current is 
illustrated in Figure 3. We use MR fluid made by Lord Ltd (MRF-122EG). 
 
 5 
mass
spring
base
MR fluid
coil
piston
       
Figure 2.  Schematic diagram and photo of MR mount. 
Self-tuning fuzzy PID Controller 
The self-tuning fuzzy PID control block diagram is shown in Figure 5. The control value of fuzzy controller 
is utilized to tune parameters of PID controller. The design procedures are as follows. 
(a) First, choose three parameters of PID to set the fuzzy relationship between deviation ( e )/deviation 
rate ( ec ) and these three parameters. 
(b)   Check the deviation ( e ) and deviation rate ( ec ) gradually. According to fuzzy control principle, 
revise these three parameters on-line in order to satisfy the requirement of control parameters in 
various e and ec . 
(c)   According to the rule, the parameters ( Pk , Ik and Dk ) can self-tune in different e and ec . 
fuzzy controller PID  controller
vibration
system
   setting
parameters
ec
r e+
-
Y
 
Figure 3.    The fuzzy PID control block diagram 
Absolute deviation e and absolute deviation rate ec are the input variables. Each variable state in this 
system can be subdivided into a range of small (S), middle(M), and big(B) whose membership functions are 
depicted in Figure 6.  
The fuzzy controller has only 5 rules regulating the inputs ( e , ec )and output ( Pk , Ik , Dk ). The antecedents 
of the 5 rules are:  
 
 
 
Figure 4.  Membership function of deviation e and deviation rate ec  
 =e B ;  =e M and =ec B ;  =e M and =ec M ;  =e M and =ec S ;  =e S                                                                                                                
                                                                  (2)  
The corresponding firing strength of rule j, ),( ecejµ , can be obtained as 
             )(1 eBeµµ = ;  )()(2 ece BcMe µµµ ∧=  ;  )()(3 ece McMe µµµ ∧=  ;  
             )()(4 ece ScMe µµµ ∧=  ;  )(5 eSeµµ =                             (3) 
                                                                                  
From the measuring values of e  and ec , the resulting parameters of the PID controller can be calculated 
according to 
 7 
Figure 6.  Amplitude of vibration attenuation for 2Hz~30Hz disturbance 
 
 
Conclusion 
In this paper, we design an MR mount and simulate the magnetic field in the MR mount, and use a 
self-tuning fuzzy PID controller for vibration suppression. Good vibration controls are obtained by fuzzy 
PID controller as compared with the PID and skyhook controllers. In addition, the MR mount design can 
avoid the damage from vibration and friction. In the near future, the experiments for vibration suppression of 
the MR mount with another intelligent controller will be carried out to validate the effectiveness of the 
constructed MR mount. 
References 
1. D. Carlson, W. Matthis, and J. R. Toscano, Proc. of SPIE, 4332, 308 (2001). 
2. G. Yang, B. F. Spencer, J. D. Carlson and M. K. Sain, Engr Stru., 24/3, 309 (2002). 
3. S. B. Choi, S. R. Hong, K. G. Sung and J. W. Sohn, Int. J. of Mechanical Sciences 50, 559 (2008). 
4. D. Karnopp, M. J. Crosby and R. A. Harwood, J. of Engineering for Industry, 96/2, 619 (974). 
5.  Z. Lu,  J. of the China Railway Society, 23/ 1, 33 (2001). 
6. S. J. Dyke and B. F. Spencer, Smart Mat. and Stru., 7/ 5, 693 (1998). 
7. K.J. Astrom, Control System Design, Chap. 6,216(2002). 
8. E. H. Mamdani, Proc. IEE, 121/12, 1585 (1974). 
9. C. L. Chen and M. H. Chang,  Fuzzy Sets and Systems, 93/1, 37(1998). 
10. S. J. Huang and W. C. Lin,  IEEE Trans. on Fuzzy Syst., 11/4, 550 (2003). 
11. J. Shaw, R.  Pan  and Y. C. Chang, World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, 
60,330(2009). 
12.  Zulfatman  and M. F. Rahmat,  Int. J. on Smart Sensing and Intell. Systems, 2/2(2009). 
13. H.A. Malki, D. Misir, D. Feigenspan, G. Chen, IEEE trans. On Control Systems Tech., 5, 371(1997). 
14. S. B. Choi, H. J. Song,  H. H. Lee, S. C. Lim, J. H. Kim and H. J. Choi, Int. J. of Vehicle Design,  
33/1-3, 2 (2003). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
一、前 言 
磁流變液(Magnetorheological fluids，MRF )是一種新型的
智能材料，主要由載液、磁性微粒及界面活性劑所組成。
Rabinow 在 1948 年發現了這種可控制流體特性。當磁流變液
受到磁場作用時，其磁性顆粒會沿磁場方向排列成鏈狀，由原
來的牛頓流體 (Newton fluid)立即變成賓漢塑性體 (Bingham 
plastic)，其黏度瞬間增大。若磁場消失，又立即變回原來的牛
頓流體，其響應時間只有幾毫秒。此種控制的變化是連續、可
逆、迅速，且控制容易，耗能低。磁流變液阻尼器即利用此特
性控制阻尼器的阻尼及減振效果。這種控制特性很適合應用在
各項產業上。目前各國相繼投入此領域的研究，例如在避震
器、減震阻尼器、刹車裝置、離合器等應用在各項產業上。  
有關磁流變液阻尼器的相關研究，從 50 年代以來也相當
的多，但產業界投入最深的是美國的 Lord 公司[1]，不論是磁
流變液材料及應用，都有深入的研究。在 1994 年申請了許多
種形式磁流變液阻尼器的專利[2]，近幾年來也陸續推出磁流變
液相關產品。Spencer等[3]在 1996年提出磁流變液阻尼器的機
械力學模式描述磁流變液阻尼器的控制特性，並實驗顯示該模
式有助於阻尼器的設計及分析。Gavin 等[4]在 2001 年提出多
重線圈組成之剪切式磁流變液阻尼器的概念，使用有限元素分
析，並實驗顯示磁場有加強阻尼力控制的範圍。He等[5]在 2005
年針對圓柱型磁流變液阻尼器建立數學模式。用黏質模態描述
磁流變液在磁場中的黏滯特性。針對阻尼器之阻尼力推導出理
論的數學模式，以理論為基礎，計算阻尼力與活塞間隙、活塞
速度等之間的關係。並計算出活塞間隙和磁流變液粒子的最佳
幾何長度。 Koo等[6]在 2006年探討磁流變液阻尼器控制的響
應時間。使用三角波保持阻尼器等速度，施加 0.5~2 安培之控
制電流，結果實驗證實,當電流增加，響應時間則下降，顯示
控制電流與響應時間為反比，並評估活塞速度對響應時間的影
響，以活塞速度 0.25~ 10 cm/s之間測試。結果顯示活塞速度
增加，則響應時間則以指數減少。Shivaram等[7] 2007年設計
雙桿磁流變液阻尼器，並進行實驗，並獲得以下結論： (1)磁
場強度及磁流變液粒子的微體積，皆可在阻尼力的均方根誤差
證實其影響，(2)振動頻率和阻尼力均方根誤差有關聯性，(3) 
在低頻率中，阻尼類似庫倫阻尼，並在漸漸增加頻率時改變遲
滯作用， (4) 振動頻率與不同材料性質，對阻尼有很大關連，
(5)阻尼力均方根值和磁場強度，粒子微體積和震動頻率均呈現
非線性變化。Wang等[8] 2007年以 Herschel- Bulley分子方程
式研究數學模態，預估磁流變液阻尼器之電/磁場行為，設計
研發磁流變液阻尼器控制理論。數學模態經由實驗證明提出之
模態可以有效的預測阻尼器控制磁場的非線性行為。同一年
Shen 等[9]等使用磁流變液阻尼器研究水平負載之懸吊系統。
運用系統的剛性和阻尼調節,可有效的控制磁流變液阻尼器。
由實驗結果證實水平負載懸吊系統的研究可以調整剛性及阻
尼，提出在較廣的頻率範圍更多控制阻尼器的振動控制。
Ashfak 等[10]2009 年使用剪切式磁流變液阻尼器設計探討磁
流變液之流變行為，並應用於減振控制，結果顯示有良好的控
制效果。近年來國內也有多所大學投入相關研究，如成大土木
系及機械系，台科大機械系，北科大機械系及車輛系，台大土
木系，東南機電系等都有相關磁流變液阻尼器之研究[11]。本
研究主要針對汽機車改裝車用阻尼器，使用流動式磁流變液阻
尼器進行阻尼力特性研究。 
二、流動式磁流變液阻尼器 
2.1.1 磁流變液阻尼器的型式 
    磁流變液阻尼器是利用磁流變液效應的控制特性設計的
應用裝置，通常有三種型式，如圖 1(a)流動式，(b)剪力式，(c)
擠壓式。(a)流動式控制是在兩固定的磁極板間對磁流變液施加
壓力擠壓液體流動，(b)剪力式控制是在兩相對運動的磁極板之
間磁流變液直接承受純剪應力，(c)擠壓式控制是在兩磁極板間
對磁流變液施加擠壓力量[1]。另外也有一種包含流動式與剪力
式的混合式，本研究則使用流動式探討磁流變液阻尼器特性。 
2.1.2 流動式磁流變液阻尼器的構造 
圖 2為流動式磁流變液阻尼器的構造，由活塞、活塞桿、
缸筒、浮動活塞、線圈、前後蓋、氮氣及磁流變液所組成。當
缸桿拉伸時，磁流變液由活塞的環狀間隙流到壓縮室。當缸桿
壓縮時，同樣經由活塞的環狀間隙流到伸張室。活塞內部繞有
線圈，連接電源線由缸桿中心孔外接電源。當拉伸或擠壓時活
塞直接壓縮磁流變液，迫使磁流變液流經線圈外的環狀間隙，
形成流體受壓力經環狀間隙流動。當線圈外加電源時，環狀間
隙的磁流變液受磁場激磁，增加流體流動的阻力而增加阻尼
力，如圖 3，故在同一運動速度下，其阻尼力會隨增加的電流
而增加阻尼力。浮動活塞與後蓋之間灌有氮氣，作為氣動彈
簧。當缸桿伸入缸筒時，擠壓氮氣，氣壓壓力上升。當缸桿拉
伸時，氣體壓力下降，瞬間膨脹，補充缸桿伸出缸筒的體積。
缸筒外徑車有螺紋是為了配合各種改裝車裝置的需要。 
2.2 磁路分析 
    圖 3為活塞磁迴路示意圖，磁力線通過流經環狀間隙的磁
流變液。欲瞭解磁流變液的效應則需先瞭解磁路的磁通密度及
磁場強度。可用簡化磁路計算[12] [13]，即利用磁路歐姆定律
分析磁路中磁通量與磁動勢的關係，計算激磁電流與磁路中磁
 11 
三、實驗裝置及測試 
3.1 實驗裝置 
磁流變液阻尼器特性測試機台如圖 9所示，包含機台、負載
感測器、位移感測器、馬達減速機、偏心輪、電腦、控制軟體及
測試夾治具等。負載感測器用來量測阻尼器的力量，位移感測器
是量測阻尼器的行程位移，馬達減速機是提供量測的動力源，偏
心輪用來控制阻尼器行程振幅的大小，電腦及控制軟體用來控制
測試的參數如測試速度、量測的次數及擷取資料的筆數、擷取負
載感測器及位移感測器量測訊號、畫圖等。另外測試磁流變液阻
尼器特性必須有電流放大器提供外加電源輸入磁流變液阻尼
器，並用三用表檢測輸入之電流是否正確。 
3.2 測試 
測試前先組裝磁流變液阻尼器，首先將浮動活塞移到最底
端，再倒入磁流變液約缸筒容量的一半，再將組裝好的活塞及活
塞桿裝入缸筒內，壓入活塞使磁流變液流到活塞上面，再將磁流
變液約倒滿缸筒，鎖緊上蓋，下蓋氣嘴灌氮氣，壓力約
210 cmkgf 。組裝完成後，磁流變液阻尼器使用測試夾治具固
定在測試機台上，調整測試行程，在電腦上設定測試速度及測試
次數。測試前先測試一極慢速的力量，此力即為摩擦阻力。再進
行正式測試，所有測試次數完成後，立即在電腦螢幕上顯示特性
圖 F-D圖及 F-V圖。如圖 10之阻尼力及摩擦阻力之 F-D圖，圖
11阻尼力之 F-V 圖。 
四、實驗結果 
由實驗結果顯示，磁流變液阻尼器的摩擦阻力拉伸約
35kgf，壓縮約 40kgf，在 50℃之內，對摩擦阻力影響不大，如
圖 12所示。圖 13所示為阻尼力與輸入電流的關係圖，在 0.1A
以後，幾乎呈線性關係變化，壓縮行程可控制率 cR =(272-124)/ 
124=120%， caR =(272-124)kgf/(0.45-0)A =329kgf/A，拉伸行程
可 控 制 率 rR =(239-133)/133=80% ， raR =(239-133)kgf/ 
(0.45-0)A=236kgf/A，顯示其控制效果良好，且耗能低，壓縮
行程每一安培電流可控制 329kgf，拉伸行程每一安培電流可控
制 236kgf。但若重覆測試一段時間後，溫度上升，則阻尼力呈
現逐漸下降趨勢，如圖 14 磁流變液阻尼器阻尼力與溫度關係
圖，顯示溫度對磁流變液阻尼器特性的影響不可忽視。 
五、結論 
模由實驗結果顯示，流動式磁流變液阻尼器僅需 1A即可
控制 236~329kgf 力量，耗能低。可控制率高達 80%~120%，
現示其良好的控制性。但磁流變液阻尼器阻尼力受溫度影響不
可忽視，這是磁流變液材料問題，另外磁流變液放置約 30 分
鐘之後則呈現沉澱現象，這些問題未來將是必須要解決的重要
課題。 
 
符號索引 
 
B  磁感應強度 
S  磁路橫截面積 
N  激磁線圈數 
I  激磁電流 
µ  磁導率 
Q  流量 
φ  磁通量 
mR  總磁阻 
ηP∆  黏滞性的壓力差  
τP∆  降伏應力的壓力差 
P∆  磁流變液流經活塞的總壓降 
aF  慣性力 
m  活塞桿及活塞的質量 
y  活塞的運動加速度 
fP   氣室的壓力 
γ   指數值約 1.2 
fV  受壓力後的體積 
iP   初使壓力 
iV   初使體積 
fsF  摩擦阻力 
 13 
 
圖4 Magneto分析磁路分佈圖(I=0.4A) 
 
 
圖5 Magneto分析磁通密度(B)分佈圖(I=0.4A) 
 
    
圖6 Magneto分析磁場強度(H)分佈圖(I=0.4A) 
 
 
 
圖7 磁通密度與電流關係圖 
 
       
 
圖8 降服強度與電流關係圖 
 
 
圖9 阻尼器特性測試裝置 
 
磁流變液 
阻尼器 
電流放大器 
電腦 
三用表 
測試機台 
磁 
通 
密 
度
 
電流(A) 
降 
服 
強 
度 
 
電流(A) 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
