可降低45.0%及62.7%，在PAHs單位產能排放係數方面，以HFO為燃料，鍋爐煙
道廢氣中總PAHs單位產能的排放係數為2.63μg kJ-1，以WWEF及WEF為燃料，
總PAHs單位產能的排放係數可降低24.0%及19.8%，鍋爐以HFO為燃料，煙道廢
氣中總BaPeq單位產能的排放係數為29.5 ng kJ-1，以WWEF及WEF為燃料可降低
43.4%及39.7%。在PAHs單位燃耗排放係數方面，以HFO為燃料，鍋爐煙道廢氣
中總PAHs單位燃耗的排放係數為44.9 mg L-1，以WWEF及WEF為燃料，總PAHs
單位燃耗的排放係數可降低16.1%及11.6%，鍋爐以HFO為燃料，煙道廢氣中總
BaPeq單位產能的排放係數為501μg L -1，以WWEF及WEF為燃料可降低50.1%及
31.9%。 
由上述結果顯示乳化燃料兼具能源提升及污染減量之效益，有機廢水內含界
面活性劑及含氧基等結構，提升燃燒效率，穩定乳化油之效果，且以廢水乳化燃
料作為工業鍋爐之燃料不僅可降低 CO、NOx、SO2、PM及 PAHs 等環境污染物
之排放，同時可提升鍋爐之鍋爐效率，推估全國每年約可節省 145,200,000 美元
之燃料費，且每年可處理 2,200,000m3之石化高濃度有機廢水，故以高濃度石化
有機廢水製作乳化燃料為可行且具經濟效益之有機廢水處理技術，且具有作為替
代燃料之潛能。 
 
Abstract 
 
Keywords: emulsification, fuel oil, energy saving, pollution reduction, PAHs 
 
Traditional methods for removing the toxic organic compounds still have some 
deficiency and limitations need to be improved. In addition, disposing wastewater in 
combustion is efficient and it has less limitation at organic compounds levels, but 
treating wastewater in industrial incinerator would consume energy and cost. 
Emulsified fuel has been investigated many years for the emission characteristics 
from the combustion of fuel oils. Several study investigated that thermal NO, soot, 
HC, and CO will be significantly reduced by using water/oil emulsified fuel. In the 
viewpoint of energy, all traditional treatments of organic compounds in wastewater 
were consuming energy. The water contained in the emulsified fuel can provide 
additional expansive energy as it is heated along with the combustion products. In this 
study, the emulsified fuels were made from heavy oil, surfactant, nature water and 
high organic compounds level wastewater by applying emulsion technology. The 
pretest of this study probes into the stability of emulsified fuels. Furthermore, the fuel 
consumption, energy saving, energy efficiency, the emission parameters of PM 
(Particular matter), NOx and SO2, and PAH (polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon) 
emissions from the stack flue gases of boiler were compared and discussed.  
First, heavy fuel oil, surfactant and wastewater (or water) was pumped separately 
micro-explosion, which improved atomization can also result in a lower SOF on PM 
and unburned fuel emissions. Boiler fueled WWEF and WEF have higher depletion 
efficiency of both total-PAHs and BaPeq than that of HFO. Further, WWEF has a 
better performance for destroying carcinogenic pollutants like PAHs in the 
combustion furnace of industrial boiler. In the other hand, some components of 
wastewater can not only increase emulsification stability but also further improve 
combustion characteristics. 
 
 
 
content, albeit with a smaller heat content, can be utilized
in the boiler operation. As for WEOF, local tap water with
typical surface water characteristics was used, e.g., total
dissolved solids 170mg/L;bothhardness andalkalinity about
100mgCaCO3/L. A surfactant was added towater and heavy
oil to reduce the interfacial tension and increase the affinity
among the three materials. The main chemical compounds
of the surfactant used in this study are listed in the previous
study (19).
Wastewater (or Water)/Heavy Fuel Oil Emulsified Fuel.
WWEOF or WEOF was produced by applying a typical
emulsion technology as shown in Figure 1. First, HOF,
surfactant, andwastewater (orwater) were added separately
in a preset fraction into a mixing tank. The heavy oil used
in both the WWEOF and WEOF was 80% (v/v) with 0.1 vol%
surfactant. The content was initially mixed at 100 rpm and
then emulsified by an inline microemulsifier (Tokoshu,
Osaka, Japan) at 3600 rpm resulting in small water droplets
in oil. Depending on residence time and motor speed, this
emulsification equipment can produce emulsified fuels
between 5 and 8 t/h.
Stability of Emulsified Fuel. An optical microscope
accompanied by a charge-coupled device video camera was
used to observe the emulsified droplets. The distribution of
droplet sizewas calculatedwith the software Image-Pro Plus
version 5.0.2.9 (MediaCybernetics, Inc.). To characterize the
stability of emulsified fuels, a simple centrifugal test was
employed. The tested emulsified fuels, containing 10, 20, or
30%wastewater orwaterwith 0.1% surfactant addition,were
used. The same quantity of 15 cm3 of emulsified fuels was
centrifugedat 3000 rpm for aprescribedduration. Theheight
of the emulsifying layer in the centrifuged tubeswas recorded
to evaluate the extent of emulsion stability. Thus, a lesser
volume of a separated oil layer in tubes refers to a better
emulsion. The emulsion stability of WWEOF andWEOFwas
evaluated under three conditions of different temperatures/
centrifuging time: (1) 20 °C for 10 min; (2) 80 °C for 4 min
to simulate boiler preheat temperature and fuel retention
time before passing the spray nozzle; and (3) 80 °C for 30
min in reference to Zorba (20).
Boiler Evaluation.Figure 1 shows the schematic diagram
of the boiler system used. The main specifications of this
boilerwere as follows:watertube boiler; direct fuel injection;
70 water tubes (each diameter 6.35 cm, length 1.1 m); steam
capacity 1.0 ton/h (or 2.5 MJ/h). The test conditions were
chosen based on load. In other words, the steam enthalpy
output maintained constant for all the fuels tested. In order
to match loads, the consumption of test fuel might either
relatively increase or decrease. Flow rates and temperatures
of both fed fuel and flue gas were measured by flow meters
and thermometer, respectively. Theboilerwasequippedwith
a pressure gauge, meter, and a thermometer to measure the
produced steam. The target O2 level in stack flue gases was
6% for the HOF test conditions. The secondary atomization
created by using emulsified fuels allows the excess air to be
reduced relative to the base fuel. The excess oxygen for the
emulsified fuels was determined based on the minimum O2
level that could be achieved without increasing either CO.
Boiler efficiency (η) is defined as the ratio of output steam
energy and input fuel energy as (21)
η)
W(i1- i0)
HB
(1)
where i1 and i0 areenthalpyofproducedsteamand feedwater,
respectively (kJ/kg), W is mass of produced steam (kg), H is
calorific value of fed fuel (kJ/kg), and B is mass of consumed
fuel (kg).
Air Pollutant Emission Monitoring.Noairpollutioncontrol
device (APCD) was used for the treatment of flue gas. The
flue gas compositions weremonitored continuously using a
flue gas analyzer (IMR 2008, USA) for NOx, CO, and SO2. The
detection ranges were 0–1200, 0–2000, and 0–4000 ppmv for
NOx, CO, and SOx, respectively. The resolution and accuracy
were 1ppmvand( 1%, respectively, for all theseparameters.
ThePAHsamplesoffluegaswerecollected fromthe stacks
by a PAH-sampling system (Graseby Anderson, Inc.), which
followed theU.S. EPA’s samplingMethod5withmodification
by Yang et al. (22). Briefly, the PAH-sampling system was
equipped with a sampling probe, a cooling device, three-
stage glass cartridges, a pump, aflowmeter, and a computer.
A sampling probe with a filter holder was connected to the
sling port of the stack. The tube-type silica glass filter,
precleaned by heating to 450 °C, was used for collecting PM
and particle-phase PAHs from the stack flue gas.
Gas-phase PAHs were collected in a three-stage glass
cartridge packed with 5.0 cm of XAD-16 resin sandwiched
between polyurethane foam (PUF) plugs. The pretreatment
procedures of these cartridges are shown elsewhere (19). In
this study, extracted samples from silica filters and each of
the three-stage PUF/resin cartridges were mixed to obtain
total PAHs (particulate and gaseous PAHs). The detailed
procedures of PAH sample collection were described in our
previous studies (23, 24).
Analysis.Each collected samplewas extracted in a Soxhlet
extractor with a mixed solvent (n-hexane and dichlo-
romethane; v/v, 1:1; 500mLeach) for 24h. ThePMdeposited
onglassfilterswas solubilized in solvent to extract the soluble
organic fraction (SOF). For PAH analysis, the extraction was
then concentrated under N2 conditions, cleaned up by
sodium sulfate, and reconcentrated byN2. The PAH samples
were analyzed with a Hewlett-Packard gas chromatograph
(HP 5890A; Hewlett-Packard, Wilmington, DE), a mass
selective detector (HP 5972), and a computer workstation
(Aspire C500; Acer, Taiwan). The PAH concentrations were
quantified by using the selected ion monitoring mode. The
detailed analytical procedures for PAH analysis, including
QA/QC, were also described in our previous studies
(22, 24, 25).
Data Analysis. The total PAH concentration was the sum
of the concentrations for the 21 PAH compounds in each
collected sample. PAH homologues were grouped by the
number of rings as follows: naphthalene (Nap) for 2-ring;
acenaphthylene (AcPy), acenaphthene (Acp), fluorine (Flu),
phenanthrene (PA), and anthracene (Ant) for 3-ring; fluo-
ranthene (FL), pyrene (Pyr), benzo[a]anthracene (BaA), and
chrysene (CHR) for 4-ring; cyclopenta[c,d]pyrene (CYC),
benzo[b]fluoranthene (BbF), benzo[k]fluoranthene (BkF),
benzo[e]pyrene (BeP),benzo(a)pyrene(B[a]P),perylene(PER),
dibenzo[a,h]anthracene(DBA), benzo[b]chrycene(BbC) for
5-ring; indeno[1,2,3,-cd]pyrene(IND), benzo[ghi]perylene
(Bghip) for 6-ring; and coronene (COR) for 7-ring. To assess
TABLE 1. Concentrations of Relevant Parameters
in Wastewater
organic compound
mean (n ) 3)
(mg/L)
relative standard
deviation (%)
regulatory
standards
(mg/L)
toluene 4.4 2.2 10a
naphthalene 2.7 20 0.40a
benzene 0.54 2.7 0.05a
trichloroethylene 0.049 2.4 0.05a
vinyl chloride 0.017 11.5 0.02a
chloroform 0.015 2.7 1.0a
grease 14.5 2.2 10.0b
COD 9560 2.3 100b
TPH-diesel 97 2.8
TPH-gasoline 444 2.9
a Regulation standards for groundwater remediation.
b Regulation standards for wastewater discharge.
VOL. 42, NO. 1, 2008 / ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 9 271
The boiler efficiencies calculated (eq 1) for three systems
were 43%, 49%, and 47% for HOF, WWEOF, and WEOF,
respectively (Figure 3a). The data ranges for six tests are also
shown in Figure 3 for reproducibility evaluation. The use of
emulsified fuel slightly improved the boiler efficiency. The
results are comparable to those of other studies, e.g., 3.9%
increase in biodiesel algal emulsion (28) or 3.5% increase in
brake thermal efficiency for emulsified diesel fuel under
various engine speeds (14).
The mass of organic compound is close to 1% in the
wastewater and 0.2% in WWEOF more than in WEOF,
however, the energy saving for fueling WWEOF is about 5%
more than for fuelingWEOF.During theprocessof secondary
atomization the organic compound that dissolved in waste-
watermight form igniting spots in the combustion chamber.
The uniformdistribution of igniting spots that accompanied
combustion reactions provides a better combustion envi-
ronment in the furnace. That induced a more complete
combustion and improved a greater boiler efficiency.
Criteria Pollutant Emissions. The criteria pollutant
emissions for three different fuels are summarized in Table
3. The use of WWEOF results in significant reductions in all
four parameters (PM, NOx, SO2, and CO) as compared to
HFO and similar to those from WEOF; for PM, it is even
better than WEOF. For example, the reduction ranges from
15 to 20% for NOx and SO2, 36% for PM, and 84% for CO.
Becauseof lower combustion temperatures forWWEOF (e.g.,
for flue gas temperature, 199 °C for WWEOF, while 221 °C
for the control HOF), the thermal NOx formation is slower
resulting in lower flue gas NOx concentrations. As for lower
SO2 levels observed in emulsifiedoil, the potential formation
ofH2SO4 due to highermoisture contents in the flue gaswith
the emulsified fuel and the dilution of sulfur content in the
WWEOF comparingwith that ofHOFmaybe responsible for
the observed phenomenon.
The magnitude of CO and PM reductions (84% and 36%,
respectively, for WWHOF) is similar to other studies using
water in the emulsified oil. For example, Ballester et al. (6)
have reported that soot and CO concentrations from boiler
stack flue gases are reduced from 584 to 200 mg Nm3- (65%
reduction) and 91 to 40 ppm (56% reduction), respectively,
by using the emulsified fuel with water content 8%. As
mentioned earlier, the combustion of emulsified droplets
leads to a microexplosion, which improves atomization
resulting in lower emission concentrations of both PM and
CO (6).
Compared to the HOF, the PM emission factors of the
boiler fueled with emulsified oil are clearly lower in terms
of fuel input (from 74 to 55 g/kg-oil or 26% reduction, Figure
3c) and steam output (from 4.3 to 2.7 mg/kJ-steam, or 37%
reduction, Figure 3d). Again, similar reductions in PM
emission factors forheavydiesel engine (58%)with20%water
in the emulsified fuel have been reported (9). The trend of
lower PM emission factors from WWEOF as compared to
WEOF is also noticed.
TheSOF fromfluegas isderivedpartly fromthe lubrication
oil, unburned fuel, andorganic compoundsgeneratedduring
combustion. The SOF values were reduced by two-thirds
(from 9% to about 3%) for emulsified oil as compared to the
plainHOF (Figure 3b). Themicroexplosion, which improves
atomization, certainly results in a lower SOF.
PAHEmissions.ThemeasuredPAHconcentrations in the
stack flue gases from three different fuels are listed in Table
4. In all cases, PAH content is primarily dominant in the LM
fraction (76–81%). Except for AcPy and BkF, all other PAH
concentrations from WWEOF are significantly lower than
those fromHOF. The reduction ranges from highest 83–87%
(CHR, IND, BeP), to half-reduction, or 51–57% (CYC, Ant),
to lower reduction, 14–17%(BghiP, Pyr), to almost samevalue
(DBA). The reductions for ΣLM-PAH, ΣMM-PAH, and ΣHM-
PAH are 36, 46, and 52%, respectively, with about 38%
reduction in total PAHs and 63% in total BaPeq. For
comparison, the reductions in total PAHs and BaPeq for the
water-emulsified diesel fuel are 33% and 36%, respectively;
also with the highest 53% reduction in BeP (19). As for the
comparison between WEOF and WWEOF, the results are
FIGURE 2. Size distribution of droplets in wastewater/heavy
fuel oil emulsified fuel (WWEOF) and water/heavy fuel oil
emulsified fuel (WEOF).
FIGURE 3. Evaluation of Parameters from boiler with different
fuels (a) PM emission factors in input fuel, (b) PM emission
factor in output steam, (c) boiler efficiency, (d) SOF fraction
in flue gas PM.
VOL. 42, NO. 1, 2008 / ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 9 273
