 I 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
以工程進度規劃模式改善路面開挖工程之社會衝擊 
A schedule planning model to improve the social impact of roadworks 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-197 -022 
執行期限：97年 8月 1日至 98年 7月 31日 
主持人：李欣運      執行機構及單位名稱：國立宜蘭大學土木工程學系 
 
摘要 
營建工程的對社會與環境造成的衝擊一直為產官學界關心的重要課題之一。尤以路面
開挖工程而言，施工範圍為線狀持續推進，而非一般建築工程以基地為界，除了會影
響路面車道的交通功能之外，更會影響道路兩旁的環境現況與社會活動。如此的負面
影響帶來莫大的社會成本，也使民眾對於公共工程的進行產生排斥與不解。本研究進
行路面開挖工程之分類，包括鋪面刨除更新、地下管線埋設與修繕、排水溝及人行道
新建工程等。進而探討其造成社會環境衝擊的項目、型式及程度，並且評估社會成本
分析之相關模式在衝擊程度量化上的應用可行性。最後，本研究應用適合的最佳化演
算法提出一工程進度規劃模式，並且依此建立電腦軟體系統，以使有關單位規劃與管
理工程進度能獲得決策之建議，以期能降低施工過程所造成的社會環境衝擊與破壞。  
 
關鍵字：工程進度規劃、路面開挖工程、環境衝擊、社會成本 
 
 
Abstract 
The social and environmental impacts of construction engineering are important issues to 
study. Especially in a roadwork, the work zone is spread in lines instead of rectangles. It not 
only brings traffic jam but also affects the environmental situation and social activities 
along the roads. The people and environment pay so much social cost for it. Our research 
categorizes the roadworks, and analysis the social impact they have, and evaluate the 
feasibility of applying the social cost assessment models to measure social impacts. Our 
research will apply optimization algorithms to propose a schedule planning model and a 
system which the planners can use to improve the construction process.  
 
Keywords: Scheduling, Roadworks, Environmental impact, Social cost 
 
 2 
(1) The first type refers to those who need to pass by a road section for an occasional 
activity, such as those on the way to a tourist spot or a meeting. These users may pass through this 
work zone maybe only once or twice during the duration of the project. In addition, a large number 
of these users may be from out of town and simply took this particular route by chance, and were 
unaware of the work zones.  
(2) The second type refers to these road users that take this route every day as part of their 
daily routines such as traveling back and forth to work or school. In urban areas or towns this Type 
2 road users usually outnumbers the Type 1 road users. As a result, these users will most certainly 
change routes to avoid any traffic delays. The traffic flow from S1 to N1 indicates that the Types 1 
and 2 road users have the same reaction on Day 1 when they first drive through the work zone as 
they always do, because they likely were not aware of the work zone. By the second day, prior to 
approaching the work zone, the Type 2 road users will, based on the experience of the previous day, 
decide to take an alternative route or not. Their decisions may impact the traffic from W2 to E2 and 
S2 to N2. Many routine road users usually only look one time at the signs and then change to 
another route. After a while they don’t look at the signs anymore. Even when the contractors post 
clear and readable signs, many road users do not pay attention to them. Thus, they do not return to 
the original routes immediately after the work zones have been removed. However, this situation 
disappears in a few days.  
We divided road users into two groups to separate the out of town/state/country drivers who 
are sure not to change their route in advance because of a lane closure. These drivers will simply 
drive the original route and suffer the traffic congestion as a result of the lane closure. The other 
group of road users is composed of local drivers, who exhibit route changing behaviors in the face 
of a lane closure. By dividing road users into two types, the impact of a construction project 
requiring setting up a work zone for more than a few days can be estimated more accurately. It also 
serves as a foundation for optimizing the schedule for road projects.  
4.2 Objective function 
When it comes to improving the traffic at a construction project, the goal of scheduling is to 
minimize the total traffic delay (minimum TTD) as a result of the construction project. The 
objective function for the ACO in our model is represented as Eq. (1):  
∑ +==
rn
t t
TDTTD
1
                                                      (1) 
In the above equation, the total duration of the project is n days, and TDt denotes the traffic 
delay of all vehicles on the tth day. In addition, as mentioned in Section 2, road users will not take 
the original route until r days after termination of a work zone. Therefore, TDt should be extended 
to the (n+r)th day, so that the traffic delay caused by the last work zone is covered. TDt, the traffic 
delay of all vehicles on the tth day, refers to the delay of two types of vehicles. The first type of 
vehicle maintains its original route despite the work zone, and the second type of vehicle is aware of 
a work zone in its original route (because they have driven through the work zone before). The 
impact of a diversion on traffic delay on other routes will be included in the calculation of delay TDt 
for the second type of vehicle.  
In the proposed model, TTD denotes the sum of the traffic delays for all types of vehicles in 
the road network during the construction period. However, the response of these vehicles to a work 
zone, whether changing routes or changing lanes, are individual (they depend on e.g. driving speed 
and vehicle type). Hence, the objective function is nonlinear. In addition, we need to obtain the TTD 
through simulation, expressed in veh-hr.  
4.3. Pheromones for selecting the work zone 
When applying ACO to the scheduling problem, we use the path selection of the ants to denote 
the assignment of work zones, and the choice of the next work zone of the ant depends on the 
pheromone deposits on the paths between the work zones. A solution is termed a path in ACO and 
is represented by a set of work zones which are constructed by selecting a work zone every time the 
previous work zone is completed. ACO operates by iteratively generating a population of solutions 
where each solution is representative of the path that a single ant has traveled [17]. When an ant k is 
 4 
work. Therefore, the length of duration it will take each crew to complete their assigned work zone 
and when (the time) they will be assigned to a new work zone will be different from crew to crew.  
A schedule of the work zones is composed of paths from multiple ants. For instance, if there 
are three available work crews, we can release three ants at each iteration and let them, respectively, 
form a sequence of work zone selections. Any ant that has completed a work zone can continue to 
select the next work zone, disregarding the other ants. It is obvious that in this process, work zones 
that have been selected or completed cannot be selected again. After all the work zones are 
completed, the three paths formed by the three ants form a schedule of work zones.  
4.5. VISSIM as a simulation technology support 
Monitoring the actual traffic delay of each vehicle in an entire road network is very hard to do. 
Hence, based on traffic impact engineering methods, we attempted to estimate the actual traffic 
delay through simulation. Since VISSIM provides microscopic simulation, it considers the behavior 
of the individual driver. Therefore, the result of the derived simulation is very likely to be close to 
real life situations.  
The interaction between traffic flow and a work zone can be analyzed by simulation. Several 
software tools have been applied in previous studies. For example, STROBOSCOPE [15] was 
applied to the simulation of asphalt paving operations under lane closure conditions [16]; 
VITASCOPE was applied to 3D motion paths in the dynamic animation of a simulated construction 
process [17]. However, STROBOSCOPE and VITASCOPE both perform simulation on the basis of 
discrete event simulation, and so it is more suitable for problems concerning construction processes. 
For problems that are mainly concerned with road users, a traffic microscopic simulation may be 
more suitable. Several traffic microscopic simulation software packages such as VISSIM [5], 
PARAMICS [18], and AIMSUN [19] provide us with an opportunity to assess the travel time of 
vehicles. These tools have helped produce satisfactory results in many previous studies [3] [4] [20].  
When estimating the impact of a work zone on traffic, the reactions of road users at different 
times of the day must be taken into consideration, so that the traffic flow of each available lane can 
be adjusted properly. Compared with other traffic microscopic simulation software, VISSIM allows 
us to rewrite the network data in .inp file and control and estimation the simulation through the 
COM interface. Hence, we integrated it into our proposed model as a simulation engine.  
4.6. Flowchart of the model 
The goal of the proposed model is to provide a near-optimal schedule for the project planner. 
The following (Fig. 1) illustrates the flowchart of the proposed model:  
< Fig. 1. Flowchart of the proposed model > 
(1) The planner inputs the data of the work zones, work crews, traffic flows and optimization 
parameters.  
(2) According to the data input by the planner, the model first constructs the network of roads and 
work zones on a VISSIM platform. It will simulate the traffic of a day without any work zone 
as a basis for subsequent estimation of traffic delays.  
(3) During a project, only when a work crew starts working in a work zone will the construction 
fences be set up and the lane be closed. When and where construction fences will be set up at 
work zones in the network depends on the schedule. Given the fact that only one ant is the 
representative of one work crew, we can randomly generate schedules of the first iteration. 
These schedules will then be simulated one by one in VISSIM. Each simulation in VISSIM 
spans the entire project duration both continuously and microscopically. 
(4) After the simulation of the schedules, we sum the additional travel time that each vehicle 
needs to spend over the entire project duration to derive the total traffic delay of a schedule. 
No matter the first or any other iteration, the model will verify whether the minimum total 
traffic delay of the iteration approaches a stable convergence.  
(5) If a stable convergence is not presented, the next iteration will be carried out. The local 
pheromone update and offline pheromone update provide a new probability for the ants in the 
next iteration. When the ant teams which are comprised of several ants are finished in the 
work zones, a new schedule will be generated. These generated schedules are used to repeat 
the simulation steps.  
 6 
date of the work zone. The total impact on the traffic was calculated until 6 days after the 
completion of the project, so that the impact caused by the final work zone was covered.  
The percentage of each action taken by Type 2 road users in response to a work zone on Day 
1~6 is shown in Table 1. Based on these statistics, we redirected the traffic flow of the original 
route. Regarding the selection of an alternative route, we used “Dynamic Assignment” in VISSIM 
to search for the best alternative route for each road section. Statistics from Table 2 were used to 
calibrate the percentage of Type 2 road users that would take alternative routes based on the 
different number of lanes available (Type 2 road users would be more inclined to take alternative 
routes if there were fewer lanes available). In the setting of the traffic flow in the VISSIM, vehicle 
sources were aggregated and traffic flow was diverted based on turning percentages.  
The above survey indeed captures local effects, but the data are suitable only for estimating the 
route-changing behavior of Type 2 road users who are local drivers. Road users from other areas (or 
countries) may behave differently depending on their travel time sensitivity, but since they have 
never passed the work zone before they belong to Type 1 road users who have no route-changing 
behavior.  
Based on the flowchart, after the project data are input, the model will construct the network. 
As required for most traffic simulations, the user must construct the road network data, including 
the data of roads and vehicles, in VISSIM and then save it into a file in .inp format. The model then 
uses “Dynamic Assignment” in VISSIM to search for the priority of each available and alternative 
route. After the input, the model writes the data of the roads with a lane closure and the traffic 
diversion caused by the lane closure according to the schedule of work zones for each day into the 
previously established .inp file. The added data serve as the background data for the schedule 
simulation. Finally, the model starts to simulate and search for a near-optimal schedule using ACO. 
Compared with other applications of ACO, in this study ants are grouped into teams, with each ant 
in a team representing a work crew. The contractor plans to send 3 crews to a particular 
construction project. In the assignment of activities for each crew, the 3 crews will be like three ants 
moving between work zones until all the work zones have been reached by them. The three paths 
taken by the three ants then become the activity schedules (i.e. a whole project schedule) for the 
three crews. Therefore, in the example problem, every ant team consists of three ants, and 100 
teams will be dispatched in each iteration. As a result, 100 project schedules can be formed by these 
100 teams. Among these project schedules, the one with the minimum total traffic delay is the best 
solution in the iteration. To avoid losing good solutions, the best solution in each iteration was 
reserved for the next iteration. In other words, in the second iteration, only 99 teams were new 
searched solutions. In addition, many values in the simulation (such as speed of vehicles) were 
characterized by a certain statistical distribution, and thus each schedule was run 50 times to derive 
the mean of the traffic delay.  
The comparisons between the solutions proposed by the model and the project planner are 
shown in Table 1. The solution proposed by the model without ACO is in random scheduling but it 
is the best solution of the first iteration in the ACO algorithm. By applying ACO to the model, the 
total duration was condensed from 265 to 249 days, and the minimum TTD decreased by 15.7% 
from 23,968 veh-hr to 20,211 veh-hr. For each vehicle passing through the network, the average 
traffic delay caused by the construction project was reduced by 11.4 seconds from 111 seconds to 
99.6 seconds.  
< Table 1 Comparisons of the solutions proposed by the model and the project planner > 
 
五、結果與討論 
In this paper, we proposed a model to search for a near-optimal schedule of a construction 
project requiring work zones to be set up on roads, under the condition of sufficient utility of the 
work crews. By means of VISSIM, a microscopic simulation engine, the model could simulate and 
calculate the total traffic delay caused by the work zones. Unlike other applications of ACO, we 
grouped the ants into teams to represent work crews and considered an ant team’s path a schedule 
solution. This paper presents the first application of Team Ant Colony Optimization (TACO) to a 
scheduling problem. Further efforts could be made to further develop and apply TACO to other 
problems in the future. In addition, an example project was employed to evaluate the feasibility of 
the model. The evaluation result also indicated that the proposed model could significantly reduce 
 8 
processes, Ph.D. Thesis, Department of Civil Engineering, University of Michigan, 1996. 
[16] K. Nassar, W. Thabet, Y. Beliveau, Simulation of asphalt paving operations under lane closure 
conditions, Automation in Construction 12 (5) (2003) 527-541.  
[17] V.R. Kamat, J.C. Martinez, Generic representation of 3D motion paths in dynamic animations 
of simulated construction processes, Automation in Construction 17 (2) (2008) 188-200.  
[18] Quadstone Ltd., Paramics V5.0 modeller reference manual, Version 1.0, Quadstone Ltd., 2004.  
[19] Transport Simulation Systems (TSS), AIMSUN user manual, V4.1.3, TSS, 2003.  
[20] C. Stirzaker, H. Dia, Evaluation of transportation infrastructure management strategies using 
microscopic traffic simulation, Journal of Infrastructure Systems 13 (2) (2007) 168-174.  
 
計畫成果自評 
本研究成果及進度皆與原計畫相符合，並且達成原先預期之目標、研究成果之學術和
應用價值，對學術界與產業應用而言均具有其開創與前瞻性，更可為後續研究之先導
基礎。研究成果投稿至SCI國際期刊 “ Automation in Construction ” 已被接受 （論文
題目：Optimizing schedule for improving the traffic impact of work zone on roads）。未
來研究將延續本研究之成果，以整合型道路工區進度規劃決策支援系統為方向持續發
展。 
 
Local pheromone 
update
Probabilistically generate schedules 
of next iteration
Randomly generate schedules of the 
first iteration
Input data by planner:
  (1) Work zones
  (2) Work crews
  (3) Traffic flow
  (4) Optimization parameters
START
END
Simulate
Calculate the total traffic delays
Simulation
Construct the network of road and 
work zone
Offline pheromone 
update
Does the Min. total traffic delay 
satisfy ACO convergence 
conditions ?
No
Yes
The near-optimal schedule for the 
project
ACO 
algorithm
Simulate without work zones
 
Fig. 1. Flowchart of the proposed model 
