2 
 
目錄 
 
 
中文摘要 第 3 頁 
英文摘要 第 3 頁 
前言 第 5 頁 
研究目的 第 5 頁 
文獻探討 第 5 頁 
研究方法 第 6 頁 
結果與討論 第 8 頁 
   Figure 1 第 10 頁 
   Figure 2 第 10 頁 
   Table 1 第 11 頁 
Table 2 第 11 頁 
計畫成果自評 第 12 頁 
參考文獻 第 12 頁 
 
4 
 
the different approaches with respect to their performances are still lacking. We apply a hybrid 
state-of-the-art machine learning model, FSMM, which combines the advantage of fuzzy 
multiset-based classifiers and support vector machines (SVMs), to achieve better performance in 
classification and fuzzy reasoning. We here propose that FSMM can be used as a novel class 
prediction model that aids the construction of prognostic gene expression signatures of breast 
cancer or other types of malignant tumors that may outperform the other approaches. Conceivably, 
successful application of FSMM in the construction of breast cancer prognostic gene expression 
signatures can justify its use as one of the approaches of developing multivariate prognostic 
predictors of malignant tumors and other human complex diseases and may considerably help 
identify the best performed molecular biomarkers that guide clinical diagnosis or treatments of 
human diseases. 
 
 
英文關鍵詞 
Malignant tumors, breast cancer, gene expression signatures, fuzzy support-vector-machine mixture 
models, tissuemimetics, prognosis, biomarkers 
6 
 
profiling of childhood medulloblastomas demonstrated their distinct molecular and clinical features 
from other types of brain tumors [14]. A 133-gene signature accurately predicted survival among 
patients with acute myeloid leukemia [15]. Furthermore, a 70-gene or 76-gene prognostic signature 
has been developed which successfully predicts survival in patients with breast cancer [16,17].  
Gene expression signatures have also successfully predicted clinical outcome of prostate cancers 
[18]. A more “universal” signature comprising 128 genes have been developed, which could 
distinguish primary and metastatic adenocarcinomas of diverse origin and primary tumors carrying 
the signature were associated with metastasis and poor clinical outcome [19]. 
Several recent investigations have highlighted the important role of tumor stroma or wound 
response in tumor progression and thereby several predictive gene-expression signatures were 
developed. For instance, a 26-gene signature derived from the gene expressions of the tumor stroma 
predicts outcome in several large breast cancer microarray data sets [20]. A 512-gene fibroblast 
serum response signature and a 123-gene hypoxia-associated transcriptional response signature both 
showed predictivities for poor prognosis in various types of human cancers [21,22]. 
Aside from the predictive value for long-term disease outcome, it is increasingly recognized 
that molecular characteristics, such gene expression profiles, of malignant tumors also affect their 
sensitivity to adjuvant (post-operative) or neo-adjuvant (pre-operative) chemotherapy [23].  To this 
end, several multigene signatures have been developed to predict patient response to preoperative 
chemotherapy in breast cancers based on the gene expression profiles of tumor biopsies 
[24,25,26,27]. Of note, these signatures were extracted by combining mathematical and statistical 
methods and none of them were directly related to a cellular pathway that is involved in the process 
of cell death, stress response, or drug metabolism. As such, a rationale approach to treat resistant 
malignant tumors based on the gene expression signatures has been hampered by the lack of 
biological relevance thereof. Recently, Nevins et al. have developed gene expression signatures that 
reflect the patterns of oncogeneic pathway deregulation, which can be used to predict the sensitivity 
to therapeutic agents that target the deregulated pathway identified [28,29]. These pathway-specific 
signatures had been verified to be useful for predicting the response of breast cancers to 
neoadjuvant chemotherapies [30]. Based on the same principle, an experimentally derived 
gene-expression signature of the interferon (INF)-related DNA damage signaling pathway was 
found to be a therapy-predictive marker of adjuvant chemotherapy or radiation in breast cancer [31]. 
It is conceivable that gene expression signatures associated with particular cellular pathways like 
these examples can offer a better opportunity to guide the use of pathway-specific drugs and is of 
considerable value in a more rationalized design of chemotherapies for human malignancies.  
 
研究方法 
  
方法 1. Use of FSMM to construct gene expression signatures that predict the prognosis of human 
8 
 
方法 3. Establishment of bioengineered tissuemimetic model of breast tissue. 
To recapitulate the structural differentiation and morphogenetic process of human pancreatic 
epithelium, we will employ a novel three-dimensional tissue culture assay in which immortalized 
breast epithelial cells were embedded as single cells within a thick layer of reconstituted basement 
membrane (rBM) gels [32]. Eight-well chamber slides will be coated with appropriate amounts of 
rBM, which form a thick layer of “underlaid” gel following incubation at 37C for 30 min in a CO2 
incubator. Subsequently, immortalized but untransformed breast epithelial cells (e.g., HMT3522 
S-1 cells) are trypsinized, washed and resuspended as single cells in rBM on ice. The cell-rBM 
mixture is then laid onto the underlaid rBM gel and incubated at 37C for 30 min. The cultures are 
then kept in 5% CO2 at 37C and are replenished with fresh medium every 2-3 days depending on 
the growth rate of the multicellular structures. 
In our preliminary studies, using the above mentioned tissuemimetic model of breast, we 
have successfully forced the structural differentiation of HMT3522 S-1 cells, resulting in the 
formation of mammary acini resembling the histological features of the breast glandular tissue. 
Briefly, we acquired an immortalized breast epithelial cell line HMT3522 S-1 and embedded them 
in 3D rBM gels. The culture were maintained for 6-8 days, after which S-1 cells gradually grew into 
acini comprising a single and polarized layer of S-1 cells as indicated by the spatial distribution of 
the basal surface marker 6-integrin and the apical surface maker GM130 along with cell-free 
lumen (Fig. 2).  
 
結果與討論 
Structural Organization of Human Glandular Epithelia 
To recapitulate the structural differentiation process of normal glandular epithelium in humans, 
we embedded immortalized but untransformed epithelial cell lines derived from normal human 
mammary glands (HMT3522 S-1 cells) within a 3D rBM gel and grew them for different lengths of 
time. When cultured within such a physiological context for a short duration (36 hours), these 
untransformed epithelial cells grew into small cell clusters comprising 1-4 cells that were either 
unpolarized or only partially polarized. More notably, after a prolonged period of culture (6-9 days), 
these cells underwent substantial structural organization, resulting in the formation of round 
structures reminiscent of acini or ducts in normal glandular epithelia. Confocal image analysis 
confirmed that these acinus-like structures comprised a single layer of cells with apicobasal 
polarization, as indicated by the basal surface marker α6-integrin and the apical surface marker 
GM130, surrounding a hollow central lumen. Moreover, these gland-like structures were relatively 
growth arrested, as indicated by their scant Ki-67 staining (data not shown).  
In contrast to untransformed epithelial cells, carcinoma cells derived from breast carcinoma 
(MDA-MB-231 cells) failed to undergo acinal morphogenesis but rather formed loosely aggregated 
multicellular spheroids in 3D cultures. These structures were not growth arrested and lacked 
10 
 
 
 
Figure 1  Framework of fuzzy support-vector-machine mixture models 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2  A bioengineered tissuemimetic model that recapitulates the normal histological 
features of human breast glandular tissues. 
Breast epithelial HMT3522 S-1 cells were embedded within rBM (Matrigel, BD Biosciences) or 
cultured on rBM-coated culture plastics. The culture was maintained for 10 days and then fixed and 
immunostained with the basal surface marker -6 integrin (green). Cell nuclei were counterstained 
with propidium iodide (red). Shown are representative phase-contract (right) or confocal images 
(left) of a polarized acinus structure. 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
計畫成果自評 
In the present project, our study reveals that interrogation into the molecular programs 
associated with the structural differentiation process can generate strong prognostic predictors for 
breast cancer. The link between tissue differentiation and tumor progression seemed to be specific 
to the morphogenetic process of structural differentiated acini rather than the cognate tumor 
spheroids. This structure-associated genomic biomarker showed remarkable predictivity for 
recurrence and patient survival and considerably outperformed clinical variables and several 
reported genomic predictors, reinforcing the idea that biomarkers constructed based on crucial 
cancer biology could significantly improve outcome classification. Whether or not the same 
paradigm can be applied to the identification of prognostic markers for other types of glandular 
cancer in humans and the mechanistic basis of how theses makers are involved in the structural 
differentiation program or tumor progression await further investigation. 
By exploiting the generic molecular program associated with structural organization of glandular 
epithelia, we identified a strong, robust and biologically relevant genomic marker of human 
glandular cancers that may has clinical utility. After completing these in vivo studies we plan to 
publish these results in high-profile cancer research journals such as Cancer Research or Oncogene. 
 
 
參考文獻 
1. Stamey TA, McNeal JE, Yemoto CM, Sigal BM, Johnstone IM (1999) Biological determinants 
of cancer progression in men with prostate cancer. JAMA 281: 1395-1400. 
2. Hruban RH, Fukushima N (2007) Pancreatic adenocarcinoma: update on the surgical 
pathology of carcinomas of ductal origin and PanINs. Mod Pathol 20 Suppl 1: S61-70. 
3. Singh D, Febbo PG, Ross K, Jackson DG, Manola J, et al. (2002) Gene expression correlates 
of clinical prostate cancer behavior. Cancer Cell 1: 203-209. 
4. Glinsky GV, Glinskii AB, Stephenson AJ, Hoffman RM, Gerald WL (2004) Gene expression 
profiling predicts clinical outcome of prostate cancer. J Clin Invest 113: 913-923. 
5. Stratford JK, Bentrem DJ, Anderson JM, Fan C, Volmar KA, et al. (2010) A six-gene signature 
predicts survival of patients with localized pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. PLoS Med 7: 
e1000307. 
6. van 't Veer LJ, Dai H, van de Vijver MJ, He YD, Hart AA, et al. (2002) Gene expression 
profiling predicts clinical outcome of breast cancer. Nature 415: 530-536. 
7. van de Vijver MJ, He YD, van't Veer LJ, Dai H, Hart AA, et al. (2002) A gene-expression 
signature as a predictor of survival in breast cancer. N Engl J Med 347: 1999-2009. 
8. Ramaswamy S, Ross KN, Lander ES, Golub TR (2003) A molecular signature of metastasis in 
primary solid tumors. Nat Genet 33: 49-54. 
9. Sotiriou, C & Pusztai, L. Gene-expression signatures in breast cancer. N. Engl. J. Med. 360, 
38-48 (2009). 
10. Andre, F., Mazouni, C., Hortobagyi, G. N. & Pusztai, L. DNA arrays as predictors of efficacy 
14 
 
27. Modlich, O., Prisack, H.B., Munnes, M., Audretsch, W. & Bojar, H. Predictors of primary 
breast cancers responsiveness to preoperative epirubicin/cyclophosphamide-based 
chemotherapy: translation of microarray data into clinically useful predictive signatures. J. 
Translantional Med. 3,32 (2005). 
28. Potti, A, et al. Genomic signatures to guide the use of chemotherapeutics. Nat. Med. 12, 
1294-1300 (2007). 
29. Bild, A. H. et al. Oncogenic pathway signatures in human cancers as a guide to targeted 
therapies. Nature 439, 353-357 (2006). 
30. Bonnefoi, H. et al. Validation of gene signatures that predict the response of breast cancer to 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy: a substudy of the EORTC10994/BIG00-01 clinical trial. Lancet 
Oncol. 8, 1071-1078 (2007). 
31. Weichselbaum, R. R. et al. An interferon-related gene signature for DNA damage resistance is 
a predictive marker for chemotherapy and radiation for breast cancer. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 
U.S.A. 105, 18490-18495 (2008). 
32. Lee, G. Y., Kenny, P. A., Lee, E. H. & Bissell, M. J. Three-dimensional culture models of 
normal and malignant breast epithelial cells. Nat. Method. 4, 359-365 (2007). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
有許多美國知名的藥廠和廠商都在外面擺設攤位，也有非常多全球各地知名的教授
與研究人員與會，上午的時間，大多是一些重要的主題，也由一些比較知名的教授
來主講，下午主要是安排一些投稿者的口頭報告與海報時間，因為在本會議中，有
投稿兩篇論文，所以，第二天(9月 28號) 和第三天(9月 29號) 都分別在海報的攤
位解說我們的研究成果和回答問題，有許多專家也提出很多非常好的問題，也讓我
們獲得很多不同的觀點，也成為我們未來研究上的參考和改進的方向。 
比較特別的地方，是在會議中有提出一些問題，也和許多美國方面的學者進行討論
和交換心得，其中包括美國史丹佛大學的博士後研究員與醫生 - Alice C. Fan, 
Stanford University Cancer Center, Stanford, CA. 也獲的很多她們在癌症研究上所使
用的方法和技術上的突破，非常有收穫。 
會議最後一天，9月 30號，大會對此會議有許多重要的結語，也感謝所有與會者的
參與，相信會提供癌症研究更大的突破和進步。 
 
二、與會心得 
該會議(AACR)是全球最重要的癌症會議，通常都舉辦在美國，也因為癌症的治癒率
一直非常的低，所以美國每一年都投入相當大的經費在癌症相關的研究，基因表現
特徵標的(gene expression signature)的研究，也是近年來非常受到重視的研究領
域，許多癌症的研究與治療，都著重於病人基因表現特徵，並發展出可以更針對性、
有更佳治癒率的投藥標的。 
此次參與會議中，有特別注意到有好幾個研究團隊，所投入的經費和人力，都是其
他許多團隊所難以達到的，例如取的癌症病人的基因表現資料，並建立龐大的基因
 4 
Program 
Program as of August 26, 2010 
 
* - Short talk from proffered abstract 
MONDAY,  SEPTEMBER  27  
Educational Sessions 1-2 
12:00 p.m.-2:00 p.m. 
 Emerging Role of Nanotechnology in Molecular Diagnostics 
Chairperson: Edison T. Liu, Genome Institute of Singapore, Singapore 
The nanotechnology of DNA sequencing 
Edison T. Liu 
Nanotechnology for multiplexed molecular mapping of tumor heterogeneity: New opportunities in cancer 
diagnostics and individualized therapy 
Shuming Nie, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 
High-content screening in microfluidic devices as a new diagnostic method for personalized cancer 
medicine 
Andre Levchenko, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 
Nanotechnology and individualized oncology 
Mauro Ferrari, The Methodist Hospital Research Institute, Houston, TX 
 Hurdles to Molecular Diagnostics Development and Application 
Chairperson: William Pignato, Novartis Molecular Diagnostics, Cambridge, MA 
Title to be announced 
William Pignato 
Using biomedical informatics to see the forest AND the trees for molecular diagnostics in cancer therapeutic 
development 
Kenneth H. Buetow, National Cancer Institute, Rockville, MD 
The right stuff: The need for standardized human benchmark samples as the yardstick of truth for assay 
development 
Carolyn Compton, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
Companion diagnostic development and commercialization: The good, the bad, and the ugly 
David Jackson, QIAGEN, Inc., Manchester, UK 
Break 
2:00 p.m.-2:15 p.m. 
Educational Sessions 3-4 
2:15 p.m.-4:15 p.m. 
 Molecular Markers and Patient Decisions 
Chairperson: Jane Perlmutter, Gemini Group, Naperville, IL 
 6 
 How Major Ongoing Omics Efforts Will Impact Development and Implementation of Molecular 
Diagnostics 
Chairperson: Paul T. Spellman, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 
Cancer genomics and the TCGA project 
David Haussler, University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 
Emerging functional genomics strategies for therapeutic development 
Thomas F. Westbrook, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 
 
Computational modeling to personalize therapeutics  
Paul T. Spellman 
A pathogenetic approach to using next generation sequencing technologies for biomarker discovery: How 
small can be beautiful 
David G. Huntsman, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, BC, Canada 
Opening Session 
7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 
Introductory Remarks 
Gordon B. Mills, UT M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 
Keynote Address: 
Synthetic lethal approaches to cancer therapy 
Alan Ashworth, Institute of Cancer Research, London, United Kingdom 
Opening Reception 
8:30 p.m.-10:00 p.m. 
  
TUESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  28  
Plenary Session 1: Transformative Technology: Large Scale Profiling 
Chairperson: Jeffrey Settleman, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA  
8:00 a.m.-10:15 a.m. 
Modeling drug sensitivity and resistance in human tumor-derived cell lines 
Jeffrey Settleman 
Title to be announced 
Joe W. Gray, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 
The complex mutation spectrum of lung cancer samples revealed by whole genome sequencing 
Zemin Zhang, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA 
* Population based engineered tumor models as a platform for biomarker discovery in cancer 
Murray O. Robinson, AVEO Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, MA 
*Prediction of drug response using genomic signatures from the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia  
Kavitha Venkatesan, Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Cambridge, MA 
 8 
WEDNESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  29  
Plenary Session 4: Hurdles to Molecular Diagnostics Development and Implementation 
Chairperson: Mehmet Toner, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA 
8:00 a.m.-10:15 a.m. 
Moving a proteomic diagnostic from a clinical need to post-marketing validation 
David Paul Carbone, Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, TN 
Cancer research in Asia: Challenges and opportunities 
John E. L. Wong, National University of Singapore, Singapore 
Biomarkers in drug development: Why so many biomarkers and so few companion diagnostic tests? 
Nicholas C. Dracopoli, Centocor, Inc., Radnor, PA 
Diagnostic and therapeutic applications of nanotechnology 
Jennifer West, Rice University, Houston, TX 
Break 
10:15 a.m.-10:45 a.m. 
Plenary Session 5: Molecular Prediction, Classification, and Prognostic Markers 
Chairperson: Stephen J. Chanock, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 
10:45 a.m.-1:00 p.m. 
The transition from discovery by genome-wide association studies to validation of clinical risk models: Where 
are we, what will it take, and when can we expect to be there? 
Stephen J. Chanock 
Prediction of disease risk using common genetic variants 
David J. Hunter, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 
Potential clinical utilities of prostate cancer risk-associated SNPs 
Jianfeng Xu, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 
*A prospective trial of plasma EBV DNA for the screening of nasopharyngeal carcinoma 
K.C. Allen Chan, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China 
* Exome sequencing of multiple metastases from a lethal prostate cancer reveals BRCA1 deficiency and 
additional somatic alterations which suggest alternate therapeutic options 
Michael L. Nickerson, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, MD 
Lunch on own/Free time 
1:00 p.m.-2:15 p.m. 
Poster Session B 
2:15 p.m.-4:15 p.m. 
Plenary Session 6: Pharmacodynamic Markers 
Chairperson: Chris H. Takimoto, Ortho Biotech, Inc., Radnor, PA 
 10 
How to design molecular markers-based clinical trials: Are they doable? 
Ana Maria Gonzales-Angulo, UT M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 
Title to be announced 
Paul A. Bunn, Jr., University of Colorado, Denver, CO 
Short talks from proffered abstracts 
Departure 
 
 
 
圖、李宗儒博士發表論文海報時拍攝於 AACR會議, Denver, CO USA 
 
六、其他 
發表論文 
1. Michael T.-L. Lee, Jimmy J.-M. Su, Chi-Rong Li, Patrick Y.-W. Chu, Ming-Sheng Liu2, 
Jung-Hsien Chiang, Kelvin K.-C. Tsai and Kok-Tong Tan, “Gene expression signatures associated 
with protracted stromal responses to therapeutically relevant cytotoxic stimuli predict breast cancer 
chemoresponsiveness,” Fourth AACR International Conference on Molecular Diagnostics in 
Cancer Therapeutic Development, Denver, CO, September 2010 
http://aacrmeetingabstracts.org/cgi/content/meeting_abstract/2010/1_Molecular_Diagnostics_Me
eting/B22 
 12 
for the intrinsic chemosensitivity of breast cancer (Supported by NHRI CA-099-PP-19 and Department of Health of 
Taiwan H99-TD-C-111-004 to KKT).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth AACR International Conference on Molecular Diagnostics in Cancer Therapeutic 
Development– Sep 27-30, 2010; Denver, CO
Gene expression signatures associated with 
protracted stromal responses to therapeutically 
relevant cytotoxic stimuli predict breast cancer 
chemoresponsiveness
Michael T.-L. Lee1, Jimmy J.-M. Su2, Chi-Rong Li3, Patrick Y.-W. Chu2, Ming-Sheng Liu2, Jung-Hsien Chiang4, 
Kelvin K.-C. Tsai2 and Kok-Tong Tan5
1Kun Shan University, Tainan, Taiwan
2National Health Research Institutes, Tainan, Taiwan
3Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan
4National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan
5Tung's Metro-Harbor Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan 
Abstract
Systemic chemotherapy inflicts cytotoxic injuries on tumor cells and cells in the stromal compartment and their 
complex interplay may critically affect therapeutic response and outcome. Evidence has shown that gene 
expression profiles associated with reactive tumor stroma link to prognosis and treatment outcome in breast
cancer; however, the specific stromal alterations underlying these associations await further exploration. We here 
show that breast carcinoma-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) responded to therapeutically relevant magnitudes of 
cytotoxic stimuli (TRCS) by engaging in a series of cytostatic and pro-death cell programs in a time-dependent 
manner. By interrogating clinical samples we found a considerable number of CAFs with similar characteristics in 
the stroma of breast cancer following neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT). Profiling the TRCS-induced 
transcriptomal changes of breast CAFs demonstrated that the genes involved in the protracted (day 3-7) instead of 
the early (day 1-3) responses were significantly associated with the responsiveness of breast cancer to NACT. To 
further substantiate this finding we prioritized gene markers and identified a 30-gene chemotherapy-associated 
stroma signature (CASS) that can predict pathological complete remission (pCR) of breast cancer following 
NACT with remarkable accuracy (overall accuracy 80%, P < 0.01). The CASS outperformed and complemented
standard clinicopathological variables and existing gene expression signatures for the prediction of pCR in several 
independent data sets. Thus, by exploiting the distinct pathological role of the stromal cytotoxic responses we 
HO M E HELP FEEDBACK HO W  TO  CITE ABSTRACTS ARCHIVE CM E INFO RM ATIO N SEARCH
Cancer Research Clinical Cancer Research
Cancer Epidemiology Biomarkers & Prevention Molecular Cancer Therapeutics
Molecular Cancer Research Cancer Prevention Research
Cancer Prevention Journals Portal Cancer Reviews Online
Annual Meeting Education Book Meeting Abstracts Online
QUICK SEARCH:  [advanced]
Go
Author: Keyword(s):
This Article
Services
Similar articles in this journal
Download to citation manager
Google Scholar
Articles by Lee, M. T.- L.
Articles by Tan, K.-T.
PubMed
Articles by Lee, M. T.- L.
Articles by Tan, K.-T.
Molecular classification, predictive, and prognostic markers including 
cancer stem cells: Poster Presentations - Proffered Abstracts
Page 1 of 2Gene expression signatures associated with protracted stromal responses to therapeuti...
2011/10/28http://aacrmeetingabstracts.org/cgi/content/meeting_abstract/2010/1_Molecular_Diag...
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用模糊理論與支持向量機的分類 (Fuzzy Support-vector-machine 
mixture) 模型以及生物工程類組織模式發展能預測人類乳癌預後的基因體標記
計畫主持人: 李宗儒
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-168-004- 學門領域: 生物資訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究計畫執行期間，與美國加州大學舊金山分校(UCSF)研究團隊 Dr. Valerie 
M. Weaver, Director, Center for Bioengineering and Tissue Regeneration
有密切合作，並且著手投稿國際期刊論文中。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
