行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2218-E-035-007- 
執行期限：97 年 11 月 1 日至 98 年 10 月 30 日 
主持人：林暘桂 逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理系 
 
一、中文摘要 
不 相 關 平 行 機 (Unrelated Parallel 
Machines Scheduling)的排程問題在現實
生活中是很常見的。然而，不幸的是，對
於大部份的績效衡量指標，不相關平行機
的排程問題都是屬於 NP-Hard 的問題。 
在實際製造環境中，通常需要同時考
慮多個目標。例如，在一半導體製造系
統，管理者尋求一個好的解可同時最大化
機器的使用率，最小化產品的週期時間，
同時還能如期交貨。雖然多目標的問題較
接近於真實世界的情況，但多相標的問題
是比單目標的問題難很多的。 
在這個研究，我們發展多目標的啟發
式演算法及遺傳基因演算法來求解不相
關平行機總時程，總加權完工時間，及總
加權延遲最小化的排程問題。 
關鍵詞：生產排程，不相關平行機，多目
標，啟發式演算法，遺傳基因演算法 
 
Abstract 
This research proposes two heuristics and 
a Genetic Algorithm (GA) to find 
non-dominated solutions to unrelated parallel 
machine scheduling problems. Three criteria 
are of interest, namely: makespan, total 
weighted completion time, and total 
weighted tardiness. Each heuristic 
simultaneously minimizes a pair of these 
criteria; the GA simultaneously minimizes all 
three. The computational results show that 
the proposed heuristics are computationally 
efficient and provide solutions of reasonable 
quality. The proposed GA outperforms other 
algorithms in terms of the number of 
non-dominated solutions and the quality of 
its solutions.  
Keywords: Scheduling; Genetic algorithm; 
Multiple-objective heuristics 
 
1. Introduction 
In a real manufacturing environment, 
managers often consider multiple objectives 
simultaneously and try to find the best 
solution that satisfies all the considerations. 
For example, in a semiconductor 
manufacturing system, managers typically 
want to maximize the utilization of costly 
machines. Managers also seek to reduce the 
cycle time of products and to meet customer 
requirements (such as on-time-delivery).  
In this research, we consider the problem 
of scheduling n independent jobs on m 
unrelated parallel machines to minimize 
multiple objectives. Each job j must be 
processed by exactly one machine. Each job j 
has a processing time represented as , a 
weight, , and a due date, . We consider 
the issue of how to minimize three general 
performance measures of a manufacturing 
system: makespan, total weighted completion 
time, and total weighted tardiness. The 
makespan  is defined as max 
( ), where  is the completion 
time of job j. Minimizing makespan is 
similar to maximizing machine utilization. 
The total weighted completion time is 
defined as 
ijp
jw jd
)( maxC
nCC ,...,1 jC
jjCw∑ , where  is the weight jw
 2
instances are large. 
2.4 Results for ),,(|| jjjjmaxm TwCwCR ∑∑  
problem 
For comparison purposes, we made two 
versions of the GA proposed by Lin [2] to 
solve the unrelated parallel machines 
scheduling problem to minimize makespan, 
total weighted completion time, and total 
weighted tardiness, simultaneously. These 
two modifications were named SGA and 
PGA.  
We compare the proposed GA with SGA 
and PGA. The scaling parameter K was set to 
0.6 for LP-ATC, and to 0.2, 0.4,..., 2.0 (10 
values in total) for ATC-bi. All three GAs 
were set to use three criteria 
. Also, we inserted 
the results (chromosomes) obtained from the 
LP-ATC and ATC-bi into the three GAs as a 
part of the initial population.  
),,( jjjjmax TwCwC ∑∑
Results for large problem instances are 
reported in Table3. Here we create a 
reference set by combining the solutions 
from the GA, SGA, and PGA, choosing the 
non-dominated solutions among them.  
For large problem instances, the combined 
reference set had 52 non-dominated solutions 
on average while the GA, SGA and PGA 
generated 49, 22 and 19 non-dominated 
solutions on average. When problem 
instances were large, the (Dist1, Dist2) for 
the GA, SGA, and PGA were (0.03, 0.12), 
(0.11, 0.37), and (0.11, 0.37), respectively. 
The results show that in large problem 
instances, the proposed GA outperforms 
SGA and PGA in terms of number of 
solutions, as measured by Dist1 and Dist2. 
However, the computation time of the 
proposed GA was 78 seconds on average for 
large problem instances; these values are 
larger than the computation times of SGA 
and PGA. 
3. Conclusions and future works 
This research has shown that the LP-ATC 
heuristic finds non-dominated solutions to 
the unrelated parallel machine scheduling 
problem that minimize makespan and total 
weighted tardiness. This paper has also 
shown that the ATC-bi heuristic finds 
non-dominated solutions that minimize total 
weighted completion time and total weighted 
tardiness for the unrelated parallel machine 
scheduling problem. Moreover, this research 
has presented a GA that finds non-dominated 
solutions that minimize makespan, total 
weighted completion time, and total 
weighted tardiness for the unrelated parallel 
machine scheduling problem. The 
computational results showed that the 
proposed heuristics provided reasonably 
high-quality solutions and were 
computationally efficient. Also, the proposed 
GA outperformed other algorithms in terms 
of solution quality and number of 
non-dominated solutions. The approaches 
proposed in this research can be extended to 
other bi-criteria pairs, such as 
),(|| jmaxm UCR ∑ , , and ),(|| jjjm UCwR ∑∑
),(|| jjjm TwUR ∑∑ problems, or to other 
tri-criteria problems, such as  
),,(|| jjjmaxm UCwCR ∑∑ and  
),,(|| jjjmaxm TwUCR ∑∑ . Future research 
could involve further exploration of these 
 4
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 97-2218-E-035-007- 
計畫名稱 多目標遺傳基因演算法應用於不相關平行機排程問題 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
林暘桂，逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理系，助理教授 
會議時間地點 7/22-7/24，Chicago 
會議名稱 2009 IEEE International Conference on Service Operations, Logistics and Informatics (簡稱SOLI 2009) 
發表論文題目 Minimizing Makespans for Unrelated Parallel Machine Scheduling 
Problems 
一、參加會議經過 
SOLI 2009是由University of Illinois at Chicago(UIC)所主辦，研討會是由7/22至7/24，
本人於7/21晚上抵達芝加哥，7/22早上至研討會報到後，參加了由研討會從中國科學院所邀
請到的主演講者Fei-Yue, Wang教授探討了新技術應用於智慧控制複雜系統:平行控制和管
理的主題以及從Monmouth University, USA所邀請到的William Tepfenhart教授主講開發使
用於緊急災難回應的軟體，並於7/22下午本人親自Present這次所投稿的論文(Minimizing 
Makespans for Unrelated Parallel Machine Scheduling Problems)。7/23整天安排的都是投
稿論文的發表，包含有Service Design and Operations，Logistics and Supply Chain，Information and 
Communications Technology，E-Commerce and Knowledge Management，Special Session: 
Transportation Systems Special Session: Business Solutions, Applications and Case 
Studies，以及Best Student Paper Contest Session。7/23晚上則參加了研討會主辦的聚餐，
於聚餐中另邀請到IBM Almaden Research Center的Kris Singh先生給予現今新科技及研究
資訊的更新。7/24本人則參加了由主辦單位所提供的University of Illinois at Chicago及The 
Field Museum一日遊的活動。本人於7/25早晨離開芝加哥。 
二、與會心得 
此次本人赴美國芝加哥參加2009年由IEEE/INFORMS所舉辦的國際研討會，此次國際
研討會主要著重在Service Operations, Logistics and Informatics (簡稱SOLI 2009)方面的
研究。本人有幸當選此次國際研討會的program committee，在整個研討會過程中，得以和
主辦單位的核心人物有面對面的接觸及認識，另在參加論文發表及聚餐的過程中，和其它學
者有學術上的交流及認識，深感受益良多。另對於此次主辦單位Derong Liu教授的熱情招
待，讓我印象非常深刻。 
三、建議 
此次參加的研討會，針對生產排程方面的論文發表稍嫌少了一些，下次可能會考慮去參
加以生產排程方面的研究為主的研討會，以求能認識排程領域的學者及對排程領域方面新發
