 2 
1. 前言 
This report studies the path planning problem of the mobile anchor for the localization scheme developed 
by Ssu et al. [1]. The idea was to use the mobile anchors to find two chords of a circle centered at the location 
of a sensor node, and computing the intersection of the perpendicular bisectors of the chords to locate the 
sensor node [2]. In [2], the mobile anchor is assumed to move randomly (i.e., based on the Random Waypoint 
model). It is possible that sensor nodes cannot be localized. Therefore, we develop a mobile anchor trajectory 
to guarantee that all of the sensor nodes in the environment can be located. Besides, the mobile anchor 
trajectory not only reduces the energy cost in the localization process and but also upgrades the localization 
accuracy for the sensor nodes. Our path planning is based on SCAN and modifies it for satisfying 
requirements of [2]. The performance of the proposed path planning has been evaluated via simulation studies 
using ns2 network simulator [3,4]. The accuracy of [2] based on our mobile anchor trajectory is superior to 
that of [2] based on the random movement. The results also display all sensor nodes that in the environments 
can be localized. 
2. 研究目的 
Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) deployed in particular environments consist of hundreds or thousands 
of sensor nodes and one or few data collection devices [5]. Each sensor node communicates with each other 
through a wireless communication medium. The data collection devices are responsible for gathering data 
sensed by sensor nodes. With the advances of micro-machined technology, the sensor node has been 
manufactured a low-cost, low power, and small size device. In addition, the sensor node has several sensing 
components to meet the needs of users, so WSNs become easier to deploy in various applications (e.g., 
military, environmental monitoring, health care, and commercial applications). 
There are extensively research topics in WSNs. One of the important research issues is localization of a 
WSN. Many applications require knowing the locations of sensor nodes, such as tracking of goods, forest fire 
detection, and etc. For example, when a forest fire occurs, we can recognize the position of the fire if the 
sensor node detected the fire know its location. There are several localization methods have been developed 
for WSNs.  
While most localization mechanisms generally use fixed anchors, several proposals have been presented 
for reducing the anchor deployment cost by utilizing mobile anchors which navigate the sensing field and 
issue beacon messages advertising their current coordinates [2,6–8]. However, none of them discussed how to 
design an optimal mobile anchor trajectory. Only Sichitiu and Ramadurai mentioned the mobile anchor 
trajectory problem but do not provide any specific trajectory for the mobile anchor [6]. For that reason, some 
specific movement strategies for mobile anchors in localization for WSNs have been studied recently [9–11]. 
All of the above approaches, however, studied their mobile anchor trajectories on the localization algorithm 
[6], and thus may not be suitable for other kind of localization methods. 
3. 文獻探討 
3.1 Mobile Anchor Based Localization 
 
Ssu et al. proposed a mobile anchor based localization for WSNs [2]. The mobile anchor node broadcasts 
 4 
to pass through the circle at least twice in the proposed path planning. We propose that the distance between 
two successive vertical segments (i.e., resolution) is R − X where 0 < X ≦ R/3. If X is bigger than R/3 , R − 
X will be smaller than 2R/3 . Hence the distance between four successive vertical segments is less than the 
diameter of the circle (the diameter of the circle is equal to 2R). That is, the mobile anchor node will pass 
through the circle of each sensor node more than three times. 
Increasing X may incur redundant beacon points for sensor nodes; conversely, decreasing X may cause 
that sensor nodes obtain shorter chords. For determining positions of sensor nodes near the border of the field, 
we virtually extend the dimensions of the field by R on each side, as displayed in Figure 1. Based on the 
configuration, we can ensure the mobile anchor node pass through the circle of each sensor node either twice 
or three times for location determinations. 
 
 
Figure 1: The proposed mobile anchor trajectory. 
 
As indicated in the Figure 1, the path length D is given as 
 
The path length D can be divided into two parts: vertical path length and horizontal path length. The vertical 
path length consists of ⌈(L+2R)/(R−X) ⌉ + 1 segments of length L + 2R. On the other hand, the horizontal 
path includes ⌈(L+2R)/(R−X) ⌉ segments of length R − X. 
 Assume that the sensor node only chose the beacon points on the vertical trajectory to assist positioning. 
The proposed path planning for [2] can guarantee two statements: (a) the length of two chords generated by 
the three beacon points exceeds a threshold (2R/3) and (b) all sensor nodes estimate their locations. 
 
4.3 Analysis 
The path length is essential to path planning because it affects the beacon overhead (i.e., anchor energy 
cost). Based on [9, 10], and compared with proposed path planning, hence the resolution R’ is R − X and the 
length of sensor field L’ is L + 2R; the path length for all path planning are given as: 
It is evident that the path length of both CIRCLES and SCURVES is shorter than that of our scheme. 
However, these schemes cannot be utilized in [2]. 
 6 
 
Figure 2: Simulation environments. 
 
5.2. Simulation Results 
 
Figure 3 illustrates the variation of the localization error as a function of X (i.e., from 0.05 to 0.3 R). The 
localization error based on our scheme keeps steady around 0.4 m as the value of X enlarges. This is because 
the proposed path planning guarantees that the chord length would be larger than 2R/3 if the value of X is 
smaller than R/3. In Figure 4, it is evident that the increase of X lengthens the execution time of our algorithm. 
The execution time gradually prolongs from 72 to 85.5 sec when the value of X increases from 0.05 to 0.3 R. 
Figure 5 illustrates the variation of the localization errors for the proposed trajectory and the random 
movement as a function of the communication range of the mobile anchor node. Obviously, the localization 
accuracy is upgraded by using the proposed path planning for the mobile anchor node. The localization errors 
are around 0.29-0.35 m and 0.73-0.82 m while using our scheme and the random movement, respectively. 
Besides, the variation in the localization error of the random movement is much higher than that of our 
scheme. This is because our scheme makes that each sensor node estimate its position based on the chords 
with a larger length (i.e., > 2R/3). As shown in Figure 6, the percentages of localized sensor nodes for the 
proposed scheme are always 100% under varying communication ranges. Conversely, about a half of the 
number of sensor nodes did not obtain their locations when the communication range is 10 m. With extension 
of the communication range, the percentage of localized sensor nodes for the random movement is increased 
to 80% as the communication range is enlarged to 25 m. 
Figure 7 represents the localization errors for two mobile anchor trajectories under varying moving 
speeds. The proposed scheme performs better than the random movement. Due to moving randomly, sensor 
nodes may exploit short chords to estimate their locations, so the localization error of the random movement 
is more variable than that of our scheme. As shown in Figure 8, the percentage of localized sensor nodes of 
the random movement decreases from 80% to 63%. 
 
 8 
 
Figure 6: Percentage of localized sensor nodes versus communication ranges (X = 0.05 R; v = 10 m/sec). 
 
Figure 7: Localization error versus anchor speeds (X = 0.05 R; R = 20 m). 
 
Figure 8: Percentage of localized sensor nodes versus anchor speeds (X = 0.05 R; R = 20 m). 
 10 
計畫成果自評 
 
此計畫已順利執行完畢，成果超過原先預定的目標，研發結果除了行動錨節點之路徑規劃演算法
之外，並有衍生其他相關的技術研發，相關成果也已投稿與發表於國際期刊，詳細的計畫成果如下： 
 
 C. H. Ou, "A Localization Scheme for Wireless Sensor Networks Using Mobile Anchors with 
Directional Antennas," IEEE Sensors Journal, vol. 11, no. 7, pp. 1607-1616, July 2011. 
 C. H. Ou, W. L. He "Path Planning Algorithm for Mobile Anchor Based Localization in Wireless 
Sensor Networks," submitted to IEEE Sensors Journal. 
 
 2 
二、與會心得 
 
此次參與「2011運輸工程國際研討會」 (The 2011 International Workshop on Transportation 
Engineering – IWTE 2011)為學生第一次參與國際會議與發表論文，獲益良多。本屆 2011運輸工
程國際研討會舉辦得非常成功，討論的主題也非常豐富。而參與國際研討會除了可以了解的目前
最新的研究發展趨勢，可以藉由國際研討會的場合與許多的國外研究生討論提升研究水準。最後，
感謝國科會提供補助出席國際會議。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
1. 光碟片一張。內容為本次會議全部的全文論文電子檔。 
2. 大會手冊一本。內容為該會議之議程。 
 
四、致謝 
 
感謝國科會工程處之經費補助 (計畫編號：NSC 99－2221－E－251－006－)，使得學生有機會
參與「2011 運輸工程國際研討會」 (The 2011 International Workshop on Transportation 
Engineering – IWTE 2011)，並能從中學習與領悟研究方向。 
 
Strength Properties of SJudge Solidified with Fly Coal Ash and 
Portland Cement ---IWEET-33 
Tomås Danék*. Jan Thomas‘ J iN Malis and Jαn Jelínek 
Demineralization of Mine Water by Electrodialysis ---
IWEET-32 
Jitkα Hajduková， Jαnη101110戶. Petro Malíkoνá and Jifí 
Vidláf 
Porosity and Permeability Analysis ofSludge Stabilised with 
Fly Coal Ash and Portland Cement -一 IWEET-35
Tomás Danék*. Jon Tho /l1as. Jan Jelínek ond Jifí Malis 
Screening llouseplants to Remove Arnmonia from lndoor Air 
through 1 ‘umigation 一 lWEET-38
H lIa YonJ法*、 Yo吋11 Liu and Wei Shα。
The Usc ofConstructed Wetland for Azo Dye Textile 
Wastewater一 IWEET-46
Siripan C lImnan* and J.αreeyo Yimrαttonahovorn 
Mass ßaJance for Phosphorus Removal in a Subsurface FJow 
Constructcd WetJand 一 lWEET-47
Pitiporn Manokhoon大 Jareeyα Yimrottαnobovorn ond 
Chatpet Yossopol 
Trajectory-ßascd Routing Protocol for Rural Vehicular Ad 
Iloc N叭叭orks ---IW'lb-32 
Chio-Ilo 01/ 大 T=II-Yu Huong ond Wei-PII He 
Comparison 01' Surfacc and Subsurfacc F10w Constructcd 
WetJands for Water Reclamation of Il ybrid Catfìsh CuJture 
Under High Hydraulic Loading Rates --- IWE巳1'-48
Sosivimon Sudsoen* ond Jareeyα Yimrattanabovorn 
Session 2: 
Mechanics & Strllctural Engineering 
15:00-18:30, Main Meeting Room (2nd Floor) 
Chairman: Jian-Rong Yang, Jia-Chen Li 
Comparison of fhree Constitutive Models for the Analysis of 
Laminar Magnctorheological Fluid Flows --- CMMιA-51 
Fongyin Jin*. Rong Lill ond Linxiang Wang 
Mechanical Analysis for the Deck Pavement of Long-span 
Steel Bridge 一 IWSEE-32
Chunying Wu* αnd Zhixiang Zhαng 
fhc Patch Tcst ofNumcrical Manifold Schcmcs with Mixcd 
Cover Coupled VcJocity and Prcssurc for Steady N-S 
ιquations --- CMMEA-52 
Shllping Chen. Zhengrong Zhαng* and Jinhuo r.αn 
A Study of Finishing Process of Magneto-RheoJogicaJ Fluid on 
SteeJ Surface --- CMMιA-77 
Won Li Song*‘ Qiαo Chll Coi‘ Selmg Bok Choi and Chul 
HeeLee 
Size and Shape Optimillltion ofTensegrity Slructures by 
Using Genetic AJgorithm --- CMMEA-90 
Byollngl、Ilook Yoo阱. Yoomi Na. Ilyungmin Kim. Tuan Anh 
LIIII αnd Jaehong Lee 
A Unique lnitial Feasible Prestressed Design for Cable Domcs 
Using Force Density Method --- CMMEA-9 1 
Hoαng Chi Trαn* and Joel1ong Lee 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 無線感測網路中以行動錨節點為基礎的定位機制與路徑規劃之設計與實作
(II)
計畫主持人: 歐家和
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-251-006- 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 行動錨節點路徑規劃演算法
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
國立屏東商業技術學院 發明人
(創作人)
歐家和
技術說明
(中文) 感測器定位在無線感測器網路中是一項重要的議題，在許多應用上都需要知道感
測器的位置；目前，許多的感測器定位方法都是利用行動錨節點配備全球定位系
統來協助感測器定位；然而，這些定位方法都沒有研究行動錨節點的路徑規劃；
此技術提出行動錨節點利用一個SCAN為基礎的路徑軌跡來減少定位誤差以及定位
所花費的時間，同時，此技術提出的路徑策略保證所有的感測器都可以被定位。
實驗結果顯示我們提出的路徑策略在定位誤差與完成定位的感測器百分比上明顯
的優於隨機移動策略。
(英文) Localization is an essential issue in wireless sensor networks because many applications 
require the sensor nodes to obtain their locations. Various methods of localization using 
mobile anchor nodes have been proposed. The mobile anchor node equipped with Global 
Positioning System assists the sensor nodes to determine their locations. However, none 
of these methods study the path planning of the mobile anchor node. The technique 
develops a trajectory of the mobile anchor node to reduce the localization error and the 
time spent on localizing the sensor network. The proposed path planning guarantees that 
all the sensor nodes can obtain their locations. The results show that the proposed path 
planning significantly outperforms the random movement of the anchor node in terms of 
the localization error and the percentage of localized sensor nodes.
產業別 研究發展服務業
技術/產品應用範圍 無線感測網路應用，如農業, 林業, 製造業, 軍事用途等。
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
可提供行動錨節點為基礎的無線感測網路定位系統的錨節點路徑規劃策略。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
