ii 
 
Abstract 
In recent years, the development of wireless network technologies grows rapidly and the mobile 
communication services have been widely deployed. It is believed that future mobile 
communication environment is an integration of heterogeneous wireless systems connected by an 
All-IP core network. For these mobile devices equipped more than one wireless interface, power 
consumption is one of critical problems. In this project, we investigate and analyze the power 
consumption of a multi-mode terminal in different configurations in the first year. Then, we 
propose a concept, called Joint Power Saving Mechanisms, to manage idle mode for multiple 
interface mobile. In the second year, we further extend this concept and propose application-layer 
and network-layer idle mode management schemes for heterogeneous wireless environment. The 
performance model and evaluation are also carried out in this project.  
 
Keywords : Wireless Network, Heterogeneous Multi-mode, Joint Power Saving Mechanism  
1 
 
1. 前言 
In recent years, the development of wireless network technologies grows rapidly and the 
mobile communication services have been widely deployed. It is believed that future mobile 
communication environment is an integration of heterogeneous wireless systems connected by an 
All-IP core network. In the personal communication system, power consumption of a mobile 
terminal is one of critical problems. The power consumption issues of mobile equipment become 
more serious to support future heterogeneous wireless access. We apply the Joint Power Saving 
Mechanisms onto the 3G/GPRS/WLAN/Bluetooth heterogeneous multi-mode wireless 
environment over application layer and network layer.  
VoIP over WLAN (VoWLAN) is considered a low-cost technology for providing mobile 
telecommunication services owing to free the Industrial, Scientific and Medical (ISM) spectrum 
and the reuse of the existing public and private WLAN infrastructures. The integration of a 
cellular and a VoWLAN system that further offers users convenient accesses to both cellular and 
VoWLAN services recently has attracted considerable interest from both academia and industry 
[1][2][3]. For example, a cellular/VoWLAN system involves a user with a dual-mode mobile 
being able to access VoWLAN services in enterprise or hotspot WLANs, and switch to a cellular 
system without WLAN coverage. Therefore, a cellular/VoWLAN dual-mode system can provide 
a cheaper mobile telecommunication service than a single-mode cellular system, while also 
achieving high mobility and wide coverage [3].We will use VoWLAN as our application layer 
and apply the joint power saving mechanism on it to saving the power.  
We also apply the same power saving mechanism onto network layer. In a heterogeneous 
overlay wireless network, an MN can activate multiple interfaces simultaneously to gain 
permanent and ubiquitous accesses of the Internet, and to improve connectivity, reliability, and 
throughput [22].  
In this scenario, an MN may have multiple unique IP addresses in an all-IP network, such as 
an IPv6 network. To allow correspondent nodes (CNs) to always be able to connect to an MN 
through any MN’s IP address, the MN must keep its interfaces awake to avoid packet loss. For an 
MN, power consumption is one of the critical problems. One possible solution for conserving 
energy is to set interfaces to power-saving mode when no packets are to be sent or received. 
However, according to the previous studies [23][24], power consumption of an MN with multiple 
interfaces increases substantially, even when interfaces are idle. Alternatively, when no packets 
are to be sent or received, an MN can turn off the wireless interfaces completely; however, 
packets sent to the IP addresses associated with these turned off interfaces of the MN will be lost.  
This report presents novel energy-conserving always-on schemes for an MN with multiple 
interfaces in an all-IP network. The proposed schemes first determine one awake interface of an 
MN, and turn off all other interfaces of the MN completely to conserve energy. Then, the MN 
utilizes the home address (HoA) or the care-of address (CoA) of the awake interface as CoAs to 
update binding caches on the Has of these turned-off interfaces. Therefore, packets sent to the 
3 
 
its cellular interface, it turns on its WLAN interface to respond to the incoming SIP messages via 
a WLAN link. Therefore, the power consumption of a mobile can be reduced significantly by 
switching off the WLAN interface during idle, and users can still receive low-cost VoWLAN 
services while a WLAN is available. 
3. 研究方法 
3.1 Problem Description 
3.1.1 Application Layer 
 
WLAN WLAN
Cellular/VoWLAN 
dual mode mobile
SIP Proxy or CSCF
indooroutdoor
IP Network GSM/3G PLMN
Dual Mode 
Service Provider 
or 3G IMS
PSTN Gateway
or SGW/MGW
SIP Registrar/LS 
or HSS
Other PSTNs/PLMNs
WAG/PDG
WAG/PDG: Wireless Access Gateway/Packet Data Gateway
PSTN: Public Switched Telephone Network
SGW/MGW: Signaling/Media Gateway
PLMN: Public Land Mobile Network
CSCF: Call Session Control Function
IMS: IP Multimedia Subsystem
HSS: Home Subscriber Server
LS: Location Server
Mobile
SIP UA/SIP phone
 
Figure 1.  System architecture for cellular/VoWLAN dual-mode services. 
Figure 1. depicts a generic system architecture to provide cellular/VoWLAN dual-mode 
services. The proposed mechanisms applied to a 3G all-IP network are first discussed. In a 3G 
all-IP network, an IP multimedia subsystem (IMS) that is an IP-based service infrastructure is 
established on top of a 3G packet-domain network. An IMS composes of a call session control 
function (CSCF) based on SIP, a home subscriber server (HSS) which maintains a mobile 
subscriber database, and signaling and media gateways (SGW/MGW) that convert circuit-switch 
voice calls between public switched telephone network (PSTN)/public land mobile network 
(PLMN) and a 3G network. To access all-IP services, a mobile must attach to a 3G 
packet-domain network first, acquire an IP address from the gateway GPRS support node 
(GGSN), and further register to the CSCF. After attaching to 3G and IMS networks, a mobile can 
be reached by a mobile subscriber ISDN (MSISDN) number, IP addresses, or an SIP uniform 
5 
 
 
Figure 2.  An MN with multiple interfaces connecting to an all-IP network. 
Figure 2. depicts architecture of an MN with multiple active interfaces connected to an all-IP 
network via heterogeneous wireless systems. Assume that an MN is equipped with Nif wireless 
interfaces, and each interface attaches to its own network and associates with a unique IP address 
which can always be reached by any CN on the Internet. That is, we assume an all-IP network 
with built-in mobile IP functions, such as an IPv6 network, and the MN with multiple interfaces, 
each associated with a unique IP address. In such a scenario, each wireless interface of an MN is 
configured with a home address (HoA), and is associated with a care-of address (CoA) when the 
MN moves to a visiting network. Furthermore, each unique IP address of the MN has its own 
home agent (HA) that maintains the mapping between the HoA and the CoA. In an environment 
which heterogeneous wireless networks are available, an MN activates all of its interfaces, 
attaches to the networks and sets its interfaces idle when no packets are to be sent or received. 
The power consumption of an idle   ∑
=
++=
ifN
i
MM
i
IDLE
i
BASE
total PPPP
1
)( , …(1) 
where BASEP , IDLEiP , and 
MM
iP  are the baseline power consumption of an MN without any 
interface, the power consumption of the thi interface in idle mode and the average power 
consumption of the thi  interface in order to perform mobility management procedures after 
handoffs, respectively. Since all interfaces always stay awake, delay from that a CN sends a 
packet to the thi  HoA of an MN to that the MN can response the packet via the thi interface can 
be modelled as: 
MNHAHACN
i
total iI
TTT −− +=  , …(2) 
where 
IHACN
T −  and MNHAiT − represent the delays between the CN and the 
thi  HA, and the thi  
HA and the MN, respectively. This model assumes that the CN does not have the latest binding 
information of the thi  HoA of the MN. When any interface of an MN performs a network-layer 
handoff, the MN must acquire a new IP address and updates the binding cache on the HA. The 
7 
 
cellular interface of a dual-mode mobile is always turned on, but the WLAN interface of the 
mobile is switched off during idle. If the CSCF receives a call to the mobile, it first pages the 
mobile via a cellular network to wake up the WLAN interface of the mobile. The paging message 
can be either embedded into a GSM/3G paging channel sending to the mobile’s cellular interface 
or can be carried by a packet sending to the IP address associated with the cellular interface of the 
mobile. The first approach needs to modify GSM/3G protocols, and the second approach can be 
implemented on the application layer. The proposed mechanisms can also support packet-domain 
services, and be implemented on a PDG. If the PDG receives a packet from the Internet to the IP 
address associated with the WLAN interface of the mobile, it sends a paging message to the 
mobile via a cellular network to wake up the WLAN interface. The paging message can be sent to 
the IP address associated with the cellular interface through the GGSN. If the dual-mode mobile 
receive a paging message from its cellular interface, it wakes up the WLAN interface to receive 
the incoming packets.  
In this report, an enterprise dual-mode system which can be realized without the 
involvement of cellular operators is used as an example to describe the proposed ideas. Also, only 
voice service is considered in this work. To implement dual-mode services, an enterprise can 
reserve a range of PSTN numbers or enterprise extension numbers, and install a PSTN/VoIP 
gateway between PSTN/cellular networks and an enterprise IP network. These PSTN numbers or 
extension numbers are assigned to dual-mode mobiles as their new dual-mode service numbers. 
For implementation using enterprise extension numbers, the dual-mode service requires two-step 
dialing, which means callers must dial an enterprise number first followed by extension numbers. 
New dual-mode SIP URIs generated based on these numbers are further allocated to these 
dual-mode mobiles. Consequently, dual-mode mobiles have new dual-mode numbers and new 
dual-mode SIP URIs that are used for dial-in. Incoming calls to the dual-mode numbers or SIP 
URIs are processed by using the proposed procedures.  
 
3.2.2 Incoming calls to a dual-mode mobile - parallel fork approach 
 
Two solutions, “parallel fork” and “wakeup and register”, are proposed for handling 
incoming calls to a dual-mode mobile. First, the parallel fork approach is described. Figure 3.  
illustrates the procedures for processing incoming calls from a PSTN or a cellular network to a 
mobile. Since the number range for dual-mode mobiles is held by an enterprise, incoming calls to 
a dual-mode mobile are routed to the PSTN/VoIP gateway and then the SIP server through a 
standard call routing procedure. After an incoming call to a dual-mode mobile is received by the 
SIP server, the SIP server uses the dual-mode number as the key to query the subscriber database. 
If the database replies a cellular number and a dual-mode SIP URI to the SIP server, the SIP 
server pages the dual-mode mobile via a cellular network, and also sends an SIP INVITE message 
to the mobile via WLANs in parallel. The cellular paging message is implemented by dialing the 
cellular number of the dual-mode mobile via the PSTN/VoIP gateway. The dual-mode mobile 
receives a paging message, i.e. an incoming call, from its cellular interface, but the mobile should 
not ring immediately. The mobile activates its WLAN interface, obtains WLAN and IP 
9 
 
wakeup and register approach is that an SIP server may handle a large number of accounts, and to 
search the registrant may introduce considerable processing delay during a registration phase. To 
speed up the registrant lookup, the SIP server can pre-fetch the mobile subscriber information 
into cache buffer while the SIP server tries to page the dual-mode mobile. Once the mobile 
receives the paging message, wakes up the WLAN interface, the registrant information is ready 
on the SIP server. Then, the mobile can get a fast registration response from the server.  
 
 
off
on
SIP Proxy
Cellular/VoWLAN 
Dual-Mode Mobile PSTN/Cellular
SIP phoneCellular Network WLAN NetworkC/I W/I
3. query res. (cellular number@gsm, vowlan@sip)
2. query req. (dual-mode number)
1. SIP INVITE (callee: dual-mode number@sip)
4. inbound call (callee: cellular number)
7. SIP INVITE (vowlan@sip)
…
5. wake up WLAN interface
9. ACK
8. 180 RINGING
PSTN/VoIP 
Gateway
6. SIP Register (vowlan@sip)
SIP Registrar & 
Location Server
 
Figure 4.  Procedures to handle an incoming call to a dual-mode mobile based on the wakeup and 
register approach. 
 
3.2.4 Modeling of Power and Call Setup Delay  
 
DL1
WLAN AP1, Network A
Pow
er consum
ption of W
LA
N
 interfa
ce
Incoming calls from cellular
The parallel fork approach
WLAN AP2, Network A WLAN AP3, Network B
Receive calls from WLAN
DL1
The wakeup and register approachIncoming calls from cellular
Receive calls from WLAN
Retry SIP INVITE message from WLAN
DL1 DL1 DL1
DL1
DL4
DL4 DL4DL3
DL2-nDL2-r
DL2-r
DL4DL3
DL2-n
 
Figure 5.  Call setup delays for the parallel fork and wakeup and register approaches. 
 
11 
 
the dual-mode mobile finally receives the ith SIP INVITE message from an SIP server. The delay 
time for the VoWLAN path can be modeled as: 
⎪⎩
⎪⎨⎧ =+
≤≤+×−+=
−−
−−
−
−
− 1,
72,)12( 1
itt
ittt
D
stasipsipcaller
stasipT1sip
i
sipcalleri
invitesip .  …(A) 
In the above equation, tsip-T1 denotes the default SIP INVITE retransmission interval defined in 
SIP [4]. The interval is normally set to 500ms. If the SIP server cannot receive the response of the 
first SIP INVITE message, it waits for tsip-T1, and resends an SIP INVITE message. The time-out 
value doubles after each retransmission. Therefore, the SIP server contributes a total of  
T1sip
i t −
− ×− )12( 1  time for the ith SIP INVITE owing to the retransmission mechanism. Importantly, 
according to the SIP, the maximal retransmission time of a message is 64 x tsip-T1 ; restated, i must 
be 7 or lower. Consequently, the delay introduced by the parallel fork approach in a layer one 
location update case is i invitesip
ppiano
L DD −
− =1 , and i must satisfy i invitesipLcellulari invitesip DDDD −− − ≤+< 11 , 
where Dcellular represents the delay required to page the mobile via a cellular network. The above 
equation reveals that the mobile needs to wait for the next SIP INVITE message after the WLAN 
interface of a mobile is activated. The wakeup and register approach that is different from the 
parallel approach requires performing the SIP registration and listening incoming SIP INVITE 
messages after WLAN turn-on and channel sensing procedures. Accordingly, the delay time for 
this approach is 411 LLcellular
wpiano
L DDDD ++=−  time, where DL4 is the time required to perform the 
SIP registration including the processing delay on the SIP server and an SIP INVITE message 
delay.  
The second situation is that the WLAN interface wakes up but cannot sense the original AP. This 
situation is called a layer two location update case. This situation needs a mobile to perform a 
WLAN channel scan and associate with a new AP. After a mobile identifies an AP, it attempts to 
re-authenticate and re-associate with the AP. If the AP belongs to the same sub-network as the 
original AP that the mobile attached, the new AP accepts the re-association, and the mobile can 
receive the resent SIP INVITE messages. The delay for a layer two location update case is 
i
invitesip
ppiano
L DD −
− =2  where i invitesipD − is shown in Equation (A) and i must satisfy:  
i
invitesipLrLLcellular
i
invitesip DDDDDD −−
−
− ≤+++≤ 4211 ,  
where DL2-r denotes a layer two re-association delay that comprises the time required to perform 
WLAN active scan, re-authentication and re-association. The wakeup and register approach 
requires an additional delay for the SIP registration and an SIP INVITE message, that is: 
4212 LrLLcellular
wpiano
L DDDDD +++= −− . 
The worse case is that the WLAN interface wakes up, finds a new AP, but this new AP is in a 
different network domain as the AP that the mobile originally associated. In this situation, the 
13 
 
 
Figure 6. presents the first proposed HoA-tunneling scheme. Initially, an MN activates its 
interfaces, and attaches to a number of wireless networks. To minimize the power consumption, 
the MN picks up only one interface, e.g. the first interface (IF1), and sets the interface as the 
awake interface. The selection of the awake interface could be based on the user preference, 
received signal strength, the power consumption of the interface, etc. The selection policy of the 
awake interface is out of scope in this paper. The MN then utilizes HoA1 as the CoAs to update 
the binding caches on the MN’s HAs other than HA1. After binding update procedures, the MN 
turns off all interfaces other than IF1. Assume a CN without the binding cache of the HoA2 
attempts to connect to the MN via HoA2. Packets sent to HoA2 are first routed to HoA2, and then 
HoA2 tunnels these packets to the CoA of HoA2. Since HoA1 is used as the CoA of HoA2, the 
packets are thus tunneled to HoA1. After HA1 receives the packets, these packets are tunneled 
again to the CoA of HoA1. Finally, the MN can receive the packets sent to HoA2 via CoA1/IF1. 
After the MN de-capsulates the tunneled packets and realizes that the packets were sent to the 
MN’s HoA2, the MN either utilizes the CoA1/IF1 to update the binding cache on the CN and to 
communicate with the CN, or the MN turns on IF2, acquires CoA2, updates the binding cache on 
the CN, and communicates with the CN. When the awake interface of an MN performs a 
network-layer handoff, i.e. the change of the CoA of IF1, the MN only needs to update the 
binding on HA1. The binding information on HA2 to ifNHA remains unchanged. The benefit by 
employing this scheme is that power consumption of an idle MN is reduced to 
T
PTTPP
ACT
k
BU
kk
IP
kkIDLE
k
BASE ×+×++ − )(ρ  …(4) 
if the thk  interface is set as the awake interface. The delay from that a CN sends packets to the 
MN’s thi HoA to that the MN can response the packet via the thi  interface increases to  
ikkii ONOFFMNHAHAHAHACN
i
total TTTTT −−−− +++= , …(5) 
where i ≠ k and 
iONOFF
T − is the latency for an MN to turn on 
the thi interface, attach to a network, acquire an IP address, and acknowledge the CN. Besides the 
increase of the initial packet delays, the proposed HoA-tunnel scheme requires two IP-in-IP 
tunnels. Notably, once the binding cache of the MN on the CN is updated, packets are routed 
directly from the CN to the MN and, in such case, the triangle routing delay and IP-in-IP 
tunneling overheads between HAs are avoided. 
 
15 
 
interface is reduced to 
iii ONOFFMNHAHACN
i
total TTTT −−− ++= , …(6) 
Where i ≠ k. Figure 7. illustrates an example of the CoA tunneling scheme. The first three steps 
are the same as those in the HoA-tunneling scheme. While packets are sent to HoA2 and received 
by HA2, the packets are tunneled to the CoA of IF2. The CoA of IF2 is currently set to CoA1. 
Thus, HA2 tunnels the packets to CoA1 directly and the MN can receive the packets via CoA1/IF1. 
Similar to Steps 7–9 in the HoA-tunneling scheme, the MN either utilizes the CoA1/IF1 to update 
the binding cache on the CN, or turns on IF2 to communicate with the CN after the MN receives 
the tunneled packets. Different from the HoA-tunneling scheme, when the MN detects a change 
of access routers, i.e., change of the CoA of IF1, the MN must update the binding caches on all 
HAs (Steps 9 and 10 in Fig. 3) because the binding caches on all HAs maintain the HoAs to the 
latest CoA1 mappings. It can be seen that the proposed two approaches both reduce idle-mode 
power consumption of an MN and also facilitate always-on services for the MN. The 
HoA-tunneling scheme consumes less energy than the CoA-tunneling scheme since the first 
approach only needs to update one HA in stead of all HAs after a handoff. On the other hand, the 
CoA-tunneling scheme avoids IP-in-IP tunneling overhead between HAs and introduces less 
delay than the HoA-tunneling scheme for initial packets from CNs. To implement the proposed 
schemes, multiple care-of addresses registration is required [25]. Also, mobile IP (MIP) stack on 
MNs needs to be modified. CNs, home and access routers remain unchanged. Our 
implementation experiences show that the proposed schemes just perform a simple check on the 
received tunnelled packets and do not introduce too much processing overhead on MNs. 
 
4. 結果與討論 
4.1 Simulation Results for Application Layer PIANO 
4.1.1 Simulation Environment Setup 
 
Simulations are conducted to evaluate the performance of the proposed parallel fork and 
wakeup and register methods. TABLE 1. presents the simulation parameters. Two mobile 
hardware platforms and WLAN cards that use two different WLAN ICs [16][17] are considered 
in the simulation. The average cellular call setup delay is from the report [10], and the other 
parameters are collected from the experimental measurements made in this study. A Tektronix 
TD5104B, a digital oscilloscope, is used to measure the electronic current and voltage that 
consumed by devices and WLAN interfaces. Hence, the power consumption of WLAN interfaces 
and mobile devices, as well as the energy required to perform particular location update 
procedures can be derived. For layer one and layer two location update delays, Ethereal, a 
network monitor tool, is used to observe the latencies. A layer two location update involves a 
WLAN active scan, which is performed using the same WLAN parameter settings - minimal 
17 
 
50m
WLAN AP
Sub network
 
Figure 8.  Simulation network environment. 
Figure 8.  presents the simulation network environment. Sub-networks are wraparound and each 
sub-network has seven APs. Also, each AP covers an area with a radius of 50 meters. Two typical 
user mobility behaviors, based on the random walk model, are simulated [5]. The first case 
simulates infrequently and slow moving users such as office workers. The mobility model A 
involves a person’s moving in a randomly selected direction at a speed from 0 to 3 Km/hour, 
where each move lasts 30 mins. Another mobility behavior is that of frequently and fast moving 
users, such as salespeople. Mobility model B involves a person’s moving at a random selected 
direction and speed from 0 to 100 Km/hour, where each move lasts also for 30 mins.  
 
4.1.2 Simulation Result and Discussion 
 
TABLE 2.  PERFORMANCE COMPARISONS OF PARALLEL FORK/WAKEUP & REGISTER APPROACHES. 
 Power Consumption (mW) Avg. Call Setup Delay (ms)
 PDA Smartphone  
  Low-Power  Standard Low-Power Standard   
Dual mode w/o 
improvement 
207.2 263 85.2 141 
Cellular:
3600 
VoWLAN:100
Parallel Fork 170.5 170.7 48.5 48.7  4500 
M
obility M
odel A
 Wakeup & 
Register 
170.6 170.8 48.6 48.8  4123.3 
Dual mode w/o 
improvement 
207.2 263 85.2 141 
Cellular: 
3600  
VoWLAN:100
Parallel Fork 170.6 170.9 48.7 48.9  4500 
M
obility M
odel B
 Wakeup & 
Register 
170.7 170.9 48.7 48.9  4194.1 
 
19 
 
using a low-power WLAN IC implementation is investigated. 
Parallel Fork/Mobility Model A
3500
3700
3900
4100
4300
4500
4700
4900
0 100 200 300
Update Period (s)
C
al
l S
et
up
 D
el
ay
 (m
s)
t sip-sta=10ms
tsip-sta=50ms
tsip-sta=100ms
tsip-sta=200ms
 
Figure 9.  Location update period vs. call setup delay for the parallel fork apporach given mobility 
model A. 
Parallel Fork/Mobility Model A
45
47
49
51
53
55
57
59
61
63
65
0 100 200 300
Update Period (s)
Po
w
er
 C
o
ns
um
p
tio
n 
(m
W
) tsip-sta=10ms
tsip-sta=50ms
tsip-sta=100ms
tsip-sta=200ms
 
Figure 10.  Location update period vs. power consumption for the parallel fork apporach 
given mobility model A. 
In the following simulations, the periodical location update function is turned on to reduce the 
call setup delay for both the parallel fork and wakeup and the register approaches. Firstly, the 
performance of the parallel fork approach for a slow-moving mobile is studied. Figure 9.  
presents the call setup delay of a mobile given various location update frequencies. In this 
21 
 
Parallel Fork/Mobility Model B
48
53
58
63
68
73
78
83
0 100 200 300
Update Period (s)
Po
w
er
 C
on
su
m
p
tio
n 
(m
W
)
tsip-sta=10ms
tsip-sta=50ms
tsip-sta=100ms
tsip-sta=200ms
 
Figure 12.  Location update period vs. power consumption for the parallel fork apporach 
given mobility model B. 
Secondly, the performance of the parallel fork approach for a fast-moving mobile is evaluated. 
Figure 11. and Figure 12. present the call setup delay and power consumption of a mobile under 
various location update frequencies, respectively. For a fast-moving mobile, call setup delay 
increases if the mobile does not update its location often. If the location is not updated frequently, 
a mobile typically must perform location updates before a call can be established in the WLAN. 
Depending on the network speeds and location update frequencies, the parallel fork method takes 
an extra 600ms to 2 seconds delay to setup a call. Figure 12. shows the power consumed by a 
mobile when the parallel fork approach with the periodical location update is applied. To compare 
Figure 12. and Figure 10. we can learn that a fast-moving mobile consumes more energy than a 
slow-moving mobile because the percentage of layer two and layer three location updates for 
fast-moving mobiles exceeds these for slow-moving mobiles.  
Wakeup & Register/Mobility Model A
3500
3700
3900
4100
4300
4500
4700
4900
0 100 200 300
Update Period (s)
C
a
ll 
Se
tu
p
 D
el
a
y 
(m
s)
tsip-sta=10ms
tsip-sta=50ms
tsip-sta=100ms
tsip-sta=200ms
 
23 
 
location update period and a normal network speed reveals that the power consumption increases 
3mW but the call setup delay reduces 20ms. The figures also demonstrate that the power 
consumptions and call setup delays for mobility model B exceed those for mobility model A since 
fast-moving mobiles change and have to update their locations frequently.  
Wakeup & Register/Mobility Model B
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
5000
5500
0 100 200 300
Update Period (s)
C
al
l S
et
up
 D
el
ay
 (m
s)
tsip-sta=10ms
tsip-sta=50ms
tsip-sta=100ms
tsip-sta=200ms
 
Figure 15.  Location update period vs. call setup delay for the wakeup and register apporach 
given mobility model B. 
Wakeup & Register/Mobility Model B
48
53
58
63
68
73
78
83
0 100 200 300
Update Period (s)
Po
w
er
 C
on
su
m
pt
io
n 
(m
W
) tsip-sta=10mstsip-sta=50ms
tsip-sta=100ms
tsip-sta=200ms
 
Figure 16.  Location update period vs. power consumption for the wakeup and register 
apporach given mobility model B. 
25 
 
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
5000
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Update Period (s)
C
a
ll S
et
up
 D
el
a
y 
(m
s)
PF/Cellular=3600/SIP=500 PF/Cellular=3600/SIP=300
PF/Cellular=3000/SIP=500 PF/Cellular=3000/SIP=300
WR/Cellular=3600 WR/Cellular=3000
unit (ms)
 
Figure 18.  Location update period vs. call setup delay under different cellular call setup 
delays and SIP retransmission intervals given mobility model B.  
 
The call setup delays are then evaluated under different cellular call setup latencies and SIP 
retransmission intervals. In this simulation, only normal network speed is considered. Figure 17. 
and Figure 18. plot the simulation results for slow-moving and fast-moving mobiles, respectively. 
Two SIP retransmission intervals, i.e. 300ms and 500ms, and two cellular call setup delays, i.e. 
3600ms and 3000ms, are simulated. The simulation results show that the call setup delays 
associated with the parallel fork approach do not always exceeds those associated with the 
wakeup and register approach. The delay time associated with the parallel fork approach depends 
on the SIP retransmission interval, the cellular call setup delays, and the extra delay introduced by 
location update procedures. If the mobile that applies the parallel fork method wakes up; 
completes the location update procedures, and just receives the retransmission of SIP INVITE 
message, then the parallel fork can achieve lower call setup delays than the wakeup and register 
approach. If the mobile wakes up but does not receive the most recent SIP INVITE message, then 
the mobile must wait for the next SIP retransmission and the delay increases. For example, while 
a location update period of is over 180 seconds, the parallel fork requires only 3900ms to 
establish a VoWLAN call.  In such a case, the wakeup and register approach spends more than 
3900ms to setup a VoWLAN session.  
 
27 
 
cellular functions and VoWLAN functions, and supports the parallel fork and wakeup and register 
methods. 
PDA/Smartphone H/W Platform
Cellular/VoWLAN integrated UA
WinCE/
Smartphone 2003
TAPI
GSM interfaceWLAN interface
NDIS driver
WinSock
TCP/IP
device driver
Mobility 
management
Power 
management
SIP/SIMPLE
UA/Stack
Cellular 
call control
  
Figure 20.  Software architecture and snapshot of the prototype cellular/VoWLAN dual-mode 
mobile. 
Figure 20. presents the software architecture of the integrated dual-mode client program on 
WinCE. The cellular/VoWLAN integrated client is developed using embedded VC++. Telephony 
API 2.0 (TAPI) is utilized to control the GSM interface. The TAPI allows incoming call events to 
be detected, and calls to be answered and dialed. The object identifier (OID) services provided by 
an 802.11 network driver interface specification (NDIS) driver are accessed directly to control the 
low level behaviors of a WLAN interface. The API allows us to turn on or off the WLAN radio, 
perform a WLAN active scan, to associate and de-associate with APs, and measure the WLAN 
signal strengths. The integrated cellular/VoWLAN client implements a threshold-based mobility 
management for WLAN to cellular and cellular to WLAN handoffs.  
  
 
4.2 Simulation Results for Network Layer PIANO 
 
We can learn from above analysis that the proposed HoA-tunneling and CoA-tunneling 
schemes both significantly reduce MN idle-mode power consumption. Second, the conventional 
and the CoA-tunneling schemes introduce less initial packet delays than the HoA-tunneling 
method. Notably, once binding information of the MN on the CN is updated, packets can be 
routed directly from the CN to the CoA. Thus, packet delays for the three approaches become the 
same. Third, packets that are sent from CNs to the MN via HAs require one IP-in-IP 
encapsulation for the CoA-tunneling and conventional schemes; however, the packets in the 
HoA-tunneling method need two IP-in-IP encapsulations. Similar to the packet delay issue, the 
numbers of IP-in-IP encapsulation are the same for the three techniques after the binding of the 
CoA and HoA of the MN on the CN is established. Fourth, in regard to the total binding update 
efforts of the MN due to mobility, the HoA-tunneling approach performs better than the 
CoA-tunneling approach since this approach only needs to update the HA of the awake interface. 
The CoA-tunneling approach updates all HAs whenever the awake interface changes the CoA. 
On the other hand, for the conventional approach, when any interface changes its CoA, the MN 
29 
 
directly to the MN’s CoA without these delays. These delays only for initial packets and CNs 
without the binding cache should be acceptable for data communications. 
 
 
Figure 21.  Power consumption of a GPRS/WLAN MN by applying different schemes 
 
A Tektronix TD5104B, a digital oscilloscope, is used to measure the electronic current and 
voltage consumed by a Dopod 699, an Intel Xscale PXA 270-basd PDA phone. These 
measurement results are fed into a simulation program to investigate the power consumption of 
an MN under different handoff frequencies. A GPRS/WLAN simulation environment contains 
overlaying WLAN and GPRS cells, and an IP subnet in the WLAN and GPRS network covers an 
area with a radius of 300 meters and 30km, respectively. MN’s mobility behaviors based on the 
random walk model were simulated. In the random walk model, an MN moves in a randomly 
selected direction and speed, where each move lasts 30 mins. Figure 21. illustrates the total power 
consumption of an MN under different handoff frequencies. The figure shows that to set GPRS as 
the awake interface always consumes less power than to set WLAN as the awake interface for the 
proposed schemes. This is because the GPRS interface consumes only 37mW in idle mode but 
the WLAN interface consumes 74mW in idle mode. While the moving speed of an MN increases, 
the power consumption of the MIP approach and two proposed schemes using WLAN as the 
awake interface also increase. This is because these approaches all need to spend energy in 
performing mobility management procedures after WLAN handoffs, and the extra energy 
depends on WLAN handoff frequencies that correlate to the MN’s moving speeds. On the other 
hand, the power consumption of an MN by using GPRS as the awake interface does not change 
too much for different moving speeds since the coverage area of a GPRS IP subnet is large and 
network layer handoff in a GPRS network rarely happens. While GPRS is set as the awake 
interface, the proposed two schemes both significantly reduce the total power consumption of an 
MN by 45% to 52%. The simulation results also reveal that the difference of the power 
31 
 
[11] Carla F. Chiasserini and Ramesh Rao, “Combining Paging with Dynamic Power 
Management,” IEEE INFOCOM 2001, pp. 12–19, April 2001. 
[12] J. Rabaey, J. Ammer, T. Karalar, S. Li, B. Otis, M.Sheets, and T. Tuan, “PicoRadios for 
Wireless Sensor Networks: The Next Challenge in Ultra-Low-Power Design,” Proceedings 
of the ISSCC, February 2002. 
[13] S. Singh and C. Raghavendra, “PAMAS: Power Aware Multi-Access protocol with 
Signalling for Ad Hoc Networks,” ACM Computer Communications Review, Vol. 28, No. 
3, pp. 5–26, July 1998. 
[14] Mark Stemm and Randy H. Katz, “Measuring and Reducing Energy Consumption of 
Network Interfaces in Handheld Devices,” IEICE Transactions on Fundamentals of 
Electronics, Communications, and Computer Science, August 1997. 
[15] Alessandro Andreadis, Giuliano Benelli, Giovanni Giambene, and Bernardo Marzucchi, “A 
Performance Evaluation Approach for GSM-Based Information Services,” IEEE 
Transcations on Vehicular Technology, Vol. 52, No. 2, March 2003. 
[16] Sychip SDIO chip WLAN 6060, http://www.sychip.com/wlan.htm. 
[17] Intersil Prism 2.5 chip, http://www.intersil.com. 
[18] 3GPP TS 23.234, “3GPP System to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) Interworking; 
System Description (Release 6),” V. 6.5.0, 2005. 
[19]  E. A. Brewer and et al., “A Network Architecture for Heterogeneous Mobile Computing,” 
IEEE Personal Communications, Vol. 5, Iss. 5, pp8-24, ct. 1998. 
[20] V. Gazis, N. Alonistioti, and L. Merakos, “Toward a Generic "Always Best Connected" 
Capability in Integrated WLAN/UMTS Cellular Mobile Networks (and Beyond),” IEEE 
Wireless Communications, Vol. 12, Iss. 3, p20-20, June 2005. 
[21] E. Gustafsson and A. Jonsson, “Always Best Connected,” IEEE Wireless Communications, 
Vol. 10, Iss. 1, pp. 49-55, Feb. 2003. 
[22] C. Ng et al., “Analysis of Multihoming in Network Mobility Support,” IETF Draft, 
http://www.ietf.org/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-nemo-multihomingissues-04.txt, Oct. 2005. 
[23] E. Shih, P. Bahl, and M. J. Sinclair, “Wake on Wireless: An Event Driven Energy Saving 
Strategy for Battery Operated Devices,” ACM MobiCom 2002. 
[24] Shiao-Li Tsao, and E-Cheng Cheng, “Reducing Idle Mode Power Consumption of 
Cellular/VoWLAN Dual Mode Mobiles,” IEEE GLOBECOM 2005. 
[25] R. Wakikawa, T. Ernst, K. Nagami, and V. Devarapalli, “Multiple Careof Addresses 
Registration,” IETF Draft, draft-ietf-monami6-multiplecoa-02.txt, March 5, 2007. 
[26] Shiao-Li Tsao and E. C. Cheng, “PIANO: A Power Saving Strategy for Cellular/VoWLAN 
Dual-mode Mobiles,” Accepted by ACM Wireless Network, 2006. (SCI, EI) 
[27] Shiao-Li Tsao and E-Cheng Cheng, “Energy-Conserving Always-on Schemes for a Mobile 
Node with Multiple Interfaces in All-IP Network,” The 18th Annual IEEE International 
Symposium on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications (PIMRC'07), 2007. 
[28] Shiao-Li Tsao, “Benefits of multiple care-of addresses and home addresses for low power 
multimode mobiles,” IETF Internet Draft, <draft-tsao-mip-multihoming-lowpower-00.txt>, 
Oct. 2005. 
