 I
中文摘要 
 
 本子計畫目的在於測量清華水池式反應器 BNCT 設施新超熱中子束之各種射束特性。計
畫內容包含 BNCT 設施射束中子監測器校正以及射束在空氣中和水假體中造成之熱中子及超
熱中子通率與中子和加馬射線劑量率測量，其中，中子通率之測量係採用雙箔片法，而中子
和加馬射線劑量率之測量則採用成對游離腔法。另外空氣中加馬射線劑量率，我們也利用
7LiF:Mg,Cu,P 熱發光劑量計(TLD)加以測量。中子束出口處二維中子通率分佈我們利用間接
中子照相法進行測量，而中子能譜則利用多箔片活化偵檢器配合能譜展開法測量。 
 
關鍵詞：硼中子捕獲治療、超熱中子束、中子通率、中子劑量率、加馬射線劑量率、中子能
譜。 
 
英文摘要 
 
 This subproject aims to measure the beam characteristics of the new epithermal neutron beam 
of the BNCT facility at Tsing Hua Open-Pool Reactor. The contents of this subproject consists of 
the calibration of the neutron beam monitor of the BNCT facility, measurements of thermal and 
epithermal neutron fluence rates and neutron and gamma-ray dose rates free-in-air and in the water 
phantom. Double-foil method was adopted for the measurement of thermal and epithermal neutron 
fluence rates, while paired-ionization-chamber method was adopted for the measurement of 
neutron and gamma-ray dose rates. Gamma-ray dose rates were also measured by using 
7LiF:Mg,Cu,P thermoluminescent dosimeters(TLDs). The two-dimensional neutron flux 
distribution at the beam exit was measured by using the indirect neutron radiography, while the 
neutron spectrum was measured by using multiple foil activation detectors in couple with the 
spectrum unfolding technique. 
 
Keywords : BNCT, epithermal neutron beam, neutron fluence rate, neutron dose rate, gamma-ray 
dose rate, neutron spectrum. 
 1
一、引言 
 
 經由國科會及原子能委員會核能研究所補助的「國立清華大學水池式反應爐改建為硼中
子捕獲治療(BNCT)專用核反應爐改建工程」第一階段三年期整合計畫之執行，我們已成功
地將清華水池式反應器熱中子柱改建成全世界第八座新一代 BNCT 設施。BNCT 主要用於惡
性腦腫瘤、皮膚黑色素瘤治療，最近國際間也嘗試以 BNCT 進行肝癌與頭頸部腫瘤之治療。 
有了國際級 BNCT 設施後，我們將進入第二階段計畫，擬規畫利用兩年時間完成 BNCT
臨床治療之先期作業，為將來邁入第三階段臨床人體治療做好完善之準備。先期作業主要從
事 BNCT 設施超熱中子束之射束特性校正與標定並建立品保制度及各種標準操作程序。其
中射束特性校正與標定包含空氣中射束各種特性之測量以及水假體和各種擬形假體中中子
通率與中子和加馬射線劑量率測量並與計算結果做比對驗証，從而對治療計畫做歸一校正。 
 
二、研究目的 
 
本子計畫一為「清華水池式反應器新超熱中子束特性量測」，目的在於測量清華水池
式反應器 BNCT 設施新超熱中子束之各種射束特性。計畫之內容包含 BNCT 設施射束中子
監測器校正以及射束在空氣中和水假體中造成之熱中子及超熱中子通率與中子和加馬射線
劑量率測量。 
 
三、研究方法 
 
本子計畫將執行清華水池式反應器新超熱中子束特性測量，內容包含 BNCT 設施射束
中子監測器校正、空氣和水假體中熱中子及超熱中子通率與中子和加馬射線劑量率測量。中
子監測器我們將以空氣中金箔反應率測量來做校正。中子及超熱中子通率則以雙箔片法利用
Au-Mu-Cu 金屬箔片測量。中子和加馬射線劑量率則利用 Mg(Ar)和 TE(TE)成對游離腔進行
測量。另外空氣中加馬射線劑量率，我們也利用 7LiF:Mg,Cu,P 熱發光劑量計(TLD)加以測
量。中子束出口處二維中子通率分佈我們利用間接中子照相法進行測量，而中子能譜則利用
多箔片活化偵檢器(InAl, Sc, AuAl, LaAl, MnNi, CuAl, W, In, Ni, Al)配合能譜展開法測量。 
 
四、結果與討論 
 
本計畫主要工作項目包括：BNCT 設施射束中子監測器校正，射束在空氣中和水假體
中造成之熱中子和超熱中子通率測量，以及射束在空氣中和水假體中造成之中子和加馬射線
劑量率測量。射束中子監測器為迷你型分裂腔，共有三支，我們已利用射束出口空氣中金箔
片之反應率測量加以校正，並利用此中子監測器從事幾種反應器運轉參數對 BNCT 射束強
度影響之研究。 
空氣和水假體中熱中子和超熱中子通率我們係採用雙箔片法並輔以蒙地卡羅計算進行
測量研究。獲得初步結論為：空氣中射束幾乎都由超熱中子所組成，雙箔片法測量並不適用；
On-line Neutron Monitoring System of Epithermal Neutron Beam for BNCT at 
THOR 
 
 
Yuan-Hao Liu 1, Shiang-Huei Jiang 1,*, Yen-Wan Hsueh Liu 1, and Hong-Ming Liu 2 
1 Department of Engineering and System Science, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan, 
R.O.C. 
2 Nuclear Science and Technology Development Center, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 30013, 
Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
This paper aims to introduce the on-line neutron monitoring system (NMS) of epithermal neutron 
beam for BNCT at THOR and following tests. The NMS consists of three miniature fission chambers 
(Centronic, FC4A) and one gamma-ray monitor. The data acquisition and display are controlled by an in-house 
graphical user interface program. Both the real-time counting rates and the accumulated counts will be 
displayed simultaneously during irradiation. When the accumulated count reaches a preset value, the NMS will 
send a signal to the reactor operator to shut down the reactor. Examinations have been performed to 
demonstrate the system’s reliability and linearity for desired reactor power range. The neutron counting rates 
were calibrated to the reaction rate of the gold foil measured free-in-air at the beam outlet center. By using the 
on-line NMS, an unstable fluctuation and long-term depression of epithermal neutron beam intensity was 
observed. It is suggested to normalize each performed irradiation by the average reading of the NMS. 
 
Keywords: BNCT, Neutron Monitoring, Epithermal Neutron Beam 
 
 
1. Introduction 
The renovation of epithermal neutron beam for 
BNCT was completed at Tsing Hua Open-pool 
Reactor (THOR) in 2004. [1,2] A series of 
preclinical experiments are under progression for 
determining the beam characteristics. [3,4] An 
on-line neutron monitoring system (NMS) was 
developed and tested since 2002 to monitor the 
beam intensity and provide correction factors for 
other beam characterization measurements. 
THOR is a 2-MW research reactor that 
normally operates from 1 MW to 1.5 MW. Fission 
neutrons in the reactor core are filtered and 
moderated by Al and FLUENTALTM to form the 
epithermal neutron beam. Under a reactor power  
of 1.5 MW, the epithermal neutron intensity 
determined by using double-foil activation method 
at the beam outlet center was 1.4 x 109 cm-2-sec-1; 
the thermal neutron fluence rate was 1.2 x 108 
cm-2-sec-1. [3] 
The major concept of BNCT is the use of 
boron neutron capture reaction 10B(n,α)7Li that will 
produce two high-LET and short range particles, α 
and 7Li, to execute the tumor cell on the spot. In 
order to establish the treatment plan, it is necessary 
to determine the number of 10B(n,α)7Li reactions. To 
determine above quantities under given 10B 
concentration, one must determine the energy and 
time dependent neutron fluence rate first. The 
energy dependent neutron fluence rate or the 
neutron spectrum can be determined by using 
activation foils. As to the time dependent part, it is 
necessary to actively monitor the neutron fluence 
rate during an irradiation to provide the differential 
information of the beam intensity. As a result, an 
on-line NMS was developed to meet the 
requirement by using three miniature fission 
chambers. In addition to provide the real-time 
neutron fluence rate, it will notify the reactor 
operator to shut down the reactor when a preset 
count is reached. The NMS was also used to be the 
reference standard for all other experiments. 
By monitoring the time dependent beam 
intensity for 30 hours under the same nominal 
reactor power, a long-term depression exceeding 
10% was observed. A study of the effect of different 
control rod positions on the epithermal neutron 
beam intensity was also performed. 
 
2. On-line Neutron Monitoring System 
2.1. Hardware and installation 
Fission chamber was chosen to be the neutron 
detector due to its excellent neutron/gamma 
discrimination that the fission energy is tens times 
of gamma rays. Only a single channel analyzer 
(SCA) is needed to separate the gamma contribution 
3
measured by using an N-type high purity 
germanium (HPGe) detector. The calibration is also 
going to be performed after a reinstallation or 
replacement of the fission chamber. 
 
3.2. Linearity Calibration 
An ideal NMS should have its neutron 
counting rate measured proportional to the real 
neutron fluence rate or reactor power with a 
constant ratio. All counting systems with pulse 
mode detectors bear the dead time effect. For a 
system operated at a very high counting rate region, 
the counts detected is no longer valid for estimating 
the real neutron fluence rate without any dead time 
correction. Hence it is important to verify the linear 
range of the on-line NMS. 
The linearity calibration of the on-line NMS 
was performed by irradiating simultaneously 
another fission chamber with significantly low 
counting rate, which was identical to the regular one 
but encapsulated with boron carbide. It is 
reasonable to assume the fission chamber with low 
counting rate free from dead time losses. Fig.3 
shows the result of the linearity calibration. 
According to the result, it is acceptable to operate 
the NMS in a range not larger than 16,000 cps and 
have the neutron counting rate around 8,000 cps for 
reactor power operated at 1 MW. Over the linear 
region, the counting rate curve began to bend down 
ware as a result of dead time losses. 
 
4. Results and Discussion 
A series of tests for the on-line NMS have been 
performed to demonstrate the reliability of the 
system since 2002. In the past four years, the NMS 
has accumulated considerable history data that give 
valuable indications of the THOR operation. 
 
4.1. Beam Monitoring 
The on-line NMS at THOR can indicate the 
intensity of epithermal neutron beam correctly even 
by using only one channel when the other two are 
failed or blind. This was examined by set three 
fission chambers in different conditions. Channel-A, 
which was partially wrapped with Cd, responded 
dominantly to thermal neutrons and was installed in 
the down side tunnel; Channel-B was located in the 
left side tunnel and was fully covered by Cd. It was 
insensitive to thermal neutrons and responded only 
to epithermal neutrons. Channel-C was set 
free-in-air in the epithermal neutron beam and was 
encapsulated with boron carbine to reduce the 
counting rate. Figure 4 shows the counting rate 
histories of the three fission chambers. From the 
consistency of the counting rates of three channels, 
one could conclude: first, there was no significant 
difference between different sites, in other words, 
the ratio of one site to another was constant; second, 
the ratio of thermal neutron fluence rate to 
epithermal one was constant too; third, the neutron 
counting rate measured in the tunnel was straight 
proportional to the epithermal neutron fluence rate. 
The movement of the rotational shutter was 
tested to confirm if any difference would be 
observed, and it was found that the on-line NMS 
was unconscious of the rotational shutter. Also, a 
fully filled 35 x 35 x 31 cm water phantom was 
placed in the epithermal neutron beam to induce 
back scattering neutrons, and no additional counts 
were detected by the NMS. 
 
4.2. Beam Stability 
The on-line NMS has been used to study the 
stability of the epithermal neutron beam under 
automatic control mode of THOR at 1 MW. 
Unstable beam fluctuations were observed from Fig. 
5 because of the aging of signal processing elements 
of the THOR monitoring system. Electronic and 
electromagnetic noises would affect the power 
judgment of the control system occasionally. The 
noise would form spurious signals, and an extra 
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000
0
10000
20000
30000
40000
 Neutron Counting Rate
 Ideal counting rate curve without dead time effect
 Real counting rate curve with dead time effect
 
N
eu
tro
n 
C
ou
nt
in
g 
R
at
e 
(c
ps
)
Neutron Counting Rate (cps)
Dead Time Losses
Linear Region
Non-linear Region
Fig. 3 The linearity calibration Fig. 4 Neutron monitoring records of three different conditions5
A Study of Neutron Fluence Rates of the BNCT Beam at THOR Using Foil 
Activation 
 
 
Chih-Hao Chang1, Yuan-Hao Liu1, Ang-Yu Chen1, Shiang-Huei Jiang1,* 
Yen-Wan Hsueh Liu1, and Hong-Ming Liu2 
1 Department of Engineering and System Science, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinshu 30013, Taiwan, 
R.O.C. 
2 Nuclear Science and Technology Development Center, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 30013, 
Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
Neutron fluence rates of the BNCT epithermal neutron beam at THOR were measured by using double-foil 
activation method free-in-air and in a water phantom. Foil sets consisting of gold, copper and manganese were 
used for measurements. Copper was used as an extra detector for quality check. Monte Carlo calculations using 
the MCNP4C code were conducted to support and compare with the measurement results. It was found that the 
calculation of reaction rates of foils free-in-air based on a neutron source with a coarse group energy structure 
is inadequate. The meetness of the assumptions on the neutron energy distribution made in the double-foil 
formulation for the determination of neutron fluence rates must be estimated in order to compare with the 
calculation. 
 
Keywords: BNCT, Epithermal Beam, Activation Foil, Monte Carlo Calculation 
 
 
1. Introduction 
After entering tissue, epithermal neutrons are 
moderated in tissue resulting in a peak in thermal 
neutron fluence rate at depths of approximately 2 to 
3 cm. By using an epithermal neutron beam the 
thermal neutron profile can be shifted toward depths 
of tissue and thereby the therapeutic depth can be 
extended. Therefore, epithermal neutron beams 
were installed in essentially all BNCT facilities 
around the world since 1990’s. The reconstruction 
of the BNCT epithermal neutron beam at Tsing Hua 
Open-pool Reactor (THOR) was completed in the 
third quarter 2004. Prior to the commissioning of 
the BNCT beam at THOR, beam characteristics, 
among others, the neutron fluence rate, the neutron 
spectrum, and the neutron and gamma-ray dose 
rates need to be determined at first. The BNCT 
epithermal neutron beam at THOR was designed by 
using the MCNP4C code associated with the 
ENDF/B-VI cross section library to have an 
epithermal neutron fluence rate of 1.7 x 109 cm-2s-1 
and a thermal neutron fluence rate of 0.2 x 109 
cm-2s-1 at the beam outlet for 1 MW reactor power. 
[1] This paper aimed to measure the neutron fluence 
rates of the BNCT beam at THOR using foil 
activation. Foil sets consisting of Au, Cu and Mn 
were used to measure thermal and epithermal 
neutron fluence rates free-in-air and in a water 
phantom with dimensions of 35 x 35 x 31 cm placed 
along the beam axis at the locations of 16 cm from 
the beam outlet. The measured reaction rates of foils 
and neutron fluence rates were compared with 
design calculations. The discrepancies between 
measurement and calculation were discussed and 
some further investigations were suggested. 
 
2. Material and Methods 
Neutron fluence rates free-in-air and in a water 
phantom with dimensions of 35 x 35 x 31 cm and 
PMMA wall thickness of 0.8 cm were measured by 
using double-foil method. Foil sets consisting of 
gold followed by copper and manganese purchased 
from NRG Petten, The Netherlands were adopted 
for the measurements. The composition and 
dimensions of the foil set are listed in Table 1. 
Copper was used as an extra foil and the ratio of 
reaction rates per atom for manganese and copper 
Table 1 Composition and dimension of the foil set 
Material 197Au 63Cu 55Mn 
Composition of 
foil (w/o) 
1% 
Au/Al 
100% 
Cu 
88% 
Mn/Ni 
Diameter (mm) 12 12 12 
Thickness (mm) 0.2 0.1 0.1 
2200 m/s cross 
section (10-24 cm2)
98.71 4.51 13.41 
Non-1/v factor 1.006 1 1.001 
Resonance 
integral(10-24 cm2)
1609.78 6.93 17.59 
7
calculations were also listed in Table 2. From our 
Monte Carlo calculations it shows that the reaction 
rate of gold R(Au) comes essentially from 
epithermal neutrons. The contribution of thermal 
neutrons is only a few percent. However, thermal 
neutrons contribute roughly 1/3 to the reaction rates 
of copper and manganese R(Cu) and R(Mn). In 
Table 2, it is noted that the scaling factor between 
calculation and measurement is much higher for 
R(Au) than those for R(Cu) and R(Mn). The 
thermal neutron component in the disk source being 
underestimated or the contribution of reaction rates 
due to thermal neutrons coming from room 
scattering being not modeled in the calculation may 
account for this large difference in scaling factors. 
However, from a preliminary test calculation, we 
highly suspect that the coarse group spectrum of the 
disk source may be inadequate in the calculation of 
foil reaction rates, where the contribution comes 
directly from source neutrons. With the coarse 
group spectrum the reaction rate of gold R(Au), 
which comes dominantly from neutron absorption 
in the huge sharp resonance peak around 4 eV, will 
be significantly overestimated. On the other hand, 
the flat energy distribution of thermal neutrons will 
slightly underestimate the reaction rates of copper 
R(Cu) and manganese R(Mn). This fact is also 
expressed by the comparison of RAu/RMn, which is 
an indicator of thermalization of the neutron 
spectrum. The ratio of RAu/RMn for a well 
thermalized neutron spectrum is 7.42. [2] Taking 
this suspicion into account, the scaling factor of 
reaction rates between calculation and measurement 
might fall in the range 2.5~3.0. This large scaling 
factor might be attributed to the incorrectness in the 
reactor power calibration, spatial distribution of the 
reactor power, control blade positions, etc. The ratio 
of RMn/RCu (around 3.0), which is insensitive to the 
neutron spectrum, agreed very well between 
measurement and calculation and also with many 
measurements in other facilities. [2] The measured 
thermal and epithermal neutron fluence rates as 
shown in the last two columns of Table 2 might bear 
larger error because that the experimental 
assumptions of the Maxwellian and 1/E energy 
distributions of neutrons were clearly deviated for 
measurement positions free-in-air. This inference is 
based on our calculation experiment with infinite 
dilute foils. Foil sets measurements were also 
carried out in the water phantom placed at the 
location of 16 cm from the beam outlet. Results of 
measurement and calculation are listed in Table 3. 
The depth of 0 cm is the beginning of water that is 
behind the 0.8-cm PMMA wall. From the reaction 
rate comparison for the three foils between 
measurement and calculation it is noted that the 
scaling factor remained roughly a constant value 
around 2.8 after the depth of 1.8 cm. However, 
before the depth of 1.8 cm the scaling factor is 
much higher for R(Au) than those for R(Cu) and 
R(Mn) that is about the same situation as free-in-air. 
This may be because that in this region near the 
edge of the water phantom a significant part of 
reaction rates was caused directly from source 
neutrons. The thermalization indicator RAu/RMn in 
Table 3 indicates that the neutron spectrum in the 
water phantom was obviously much more 
thermalized than free-in-air and the thermalization 
process proceeded continuously with the water 
depth. The ratio of RMn/RCu remained around 2.80 
for all measurement depths and deviated from the 
value free-in-air (2.92), where the fluence rate 
consists essentially of epithermal neutrons, only by 
less than 5%. Note that the scaling factors (c/m) of 
thermal and epithermal fluence rates after the depth 
of 1.8 cm  were in good consistence with those of 
reaction rates. It may imply that the thermal and 
epithermal neutron fluence rates measured in the 
water phantom could be adequate indicators for 
characterizing the beam intensity. 
 
Table 2 Reaction rates and fluence rates free-in-air 
Distance 
(cm) 
R(Au) 
(s
-1atom-1) 
R(Cu) 
(s
-1atom-1) 
R(Mn) 
(s
-1atom-1)
RAu/RMn RMn/RCu
φth 
(cm
-2
s
-1) 
φepi 
(cm
-2
s
-1) 
m* 1.32E-13 7.37E-16 2.15E-15 61.70 2.92 8.03E+07 9.28E+08
c* 4.04E-13 1.54E-15 4.48E-15 90.11 2.92 1.73E+08 2.17E+09
 
0 
c/m* 3.06  2.09  2.08  1.46  1.00  2.15 2.34 
m 6.53E-14 3.27E-16 9.58E-16 68.15 2.92 1.82E+07 4.49E+08
c 2.24E-13 5.97E-16 1.88E-15 118.86 3.15 2.79E+07 1.17E+09
 
10 
c/m 3.43  1.83  1.96  1.74  1.08  1.53 2.59 
*: m=measurement, c=calculation, c/m=calculation/measurement.
9
(BNCT),” p.91-93, NRG, Petten, The 
Netherlands (2003). 
[3] ASTM, “Standard Test Method for Determining 
Thermal Neutron Reaction and Fluence Rates 
by Radiation Activation Techniques,” ASTM E 
262-97 (1997). 
[4] International Atomic Energy Agency, “Neutron 
Fluence Measurements,” Technical Report 
Series No. 107, Vienna (1970). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[5] T. Y. Lin, “Development and validation of 
treatment planning system THORplan for the 
boron neutron capture therapy using Tsing Hua 
Open-pool Reactor,” Master Thesis, National 
Tsing Hua University (2004). 
[6] J. F. Briesmeister (Ed.), “MCNP-A General 
Monte Carlo N-Particle Transport Code, 
Version 4C,” LA-13709-M, Los Alamos 
National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 
(2000). 
 
11
where u and t denote detectors with low neutron 
sensitivity Mg(Ar) and with approximately equal 
sensitivity to gamma rays and neutrons TE(TE), 
respectively. Dγ and Dn are the absorbed gamma-ray 
and neutron doses in the mixed field. Mu and Mt are 
the measured readings corrected for ambient and 
electrical conditions. Nu,c and Nt,c  are calibration 
factors for absorbed doses to brain tissue in the 60Co 
gamma-ray beam. h and k are the relative responses 
of gamma rays and neutrons, respectively in the 
mixed beam to the responses in the 60Co calibration. 
The air kerma calibration (free-in-air) of 
ionization chamber was performed using the 60Co 
source in the National Radiation Standard 
Laboratory, INER. The calibration in air kerma was 
then converted to the absorbed dose to brain tissue 
using the ratio of the mass energy absorption 
coefficients. The relative gamma-ray sensitivity for 
both chambers hu and ht were taken as 1 and the 
relative neutron sensitivity for M2 chamber was 
taken as 0. The relative neutron sensitivity kt as a 
function of neutron energy calculated by Jansen et 
al. [5] as shown in Fig. 1. was adopted. Since kt is 
strong function of neutron energy, its value will be 
position dependent. The value of kt was estimated in 
this work by weighting the energy dependent kt with 
the neutron kerma distribution of the measurement 
position. Neutron spectra free-in-air and in the 
water phantom were calculated by using MCNP4C 
associated with the ENDF/B-VI cross section 
library based on a uniform disk source with 
47-group energy and 8-angular interval distribution 
at the beam outlet with an aperture of 14-cm 
diameter, which was established during the 
development of the treatment planning system for 
BNCT at THOR. [6] The total track length density 
tally was applied for the neutron spectrum 
estimation. 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
The paired ionization chambers were calibrated 
free-in-air for air kerma to be 3.98 x 107 Gy/C for 
M2 chamber and 5.23 x 107 Gy/C for T2 chamber 
and then converted to the absorbed dose to brain 
tissue using the ratio of mass energy absorption 
coefficients (1.102). [7] 
Figure 2 shows axial profiles free-in-air of 
neutron fluence rate, neutron kerma rate and kt from 
calculations. From Fig. 2 it is noted that although 
roughly 90% of neutron fluence rate comes from 
epithermal neutrons, the neutron kerma rate is 
contributed mainly by fast neutrons so that the 
kerma weighted kt changes around 0.82. The 
thermal neutron fluence rate decreases with the 
depth much rapidly and thermal neutron contribute 
only a tiny share to the neutron kerma rate. 
Figure 3 shows the depth profiles of neutron 
fluence rate, neutron kerma rate and kt in the water 
phantom placed at immediate contact with the beam 
outlet from calculations. It is noted from Fig. 3 that 
the neutron kerma rate as well as fluence rate comes 
essentially from thermal and epithermal neutrons 
with thermal neutrons being the major contributor. 
 
Fig. 2. (a) Axial profiles free-in-air of calculated 
neutron fluence rates. (b) Axial profiles free-in-air 
of calculated neutron kerma rates and kt. Thermal: 
<0.414 eV, epithermal: 0.414 eV–7.10 keV, fast: 
>7.10 keV.  
 
Fig. 1. The relative neutron sensitivity kt as a 
function of neutron energy. 
13
the real and calculated neutron spectrum and 
angular distribution, measurement errors, and the 
room scattering that was not modeled in the 
calculations. 
 
Fig. 5. Lateral profiles of neutron dose rates 
free-in-air. 
 
4. Conclusions 
Paired ionization chambers were used in this 
work to measure the neutron and gamma-ray dose 
rates of the BNCT epithermal neutron beam at 
THOR along the beam axis free-in-air and in the 
water phantom. The position dependent and kerma 
rate weighted neutron sensitivities of the TE(TE) 
chamber were adopted in the measurements. Monte 
Carlo calculations of the neutron fluence rates and 
neutron kerma rates using the MCNP4C code were 
used to support the measurements and compare with 
the measured results. It was found that free-in-air 
neutron dose rates , which mainly come from fast 
neutrons, were a factor of around 3.7 higher than 
gamma-ray dose rates. However, in the water 
phantom gamma-ray dose rates were more than a 
factor of 10 much higher than neutron dose rates of 
which thermal neutrons were the main contributor. 
Negative values of neutron dose rates appeared for 
the measurements in the water phantom leads to our 
great suspicion that the neutron sensitivity of the 
Mg(Ar) chamber adopted in this work (ku = 0) 
might be incorrect. The reasons that near the edge 
of the beam aperture the neutron dose rates 
free-in-air were higher for measurement than 
calculation are not clear and further investigations 
are needed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acknowledgements 
 This work was supported by the National 
Science Council of the Republic of China under 
contract numbers NSC 94-2212-E-007-068, -069, 
-070 and -071. 
 
References 
[1] P. J. Binns et al., “An international dosimetry 
exchange for boron neutron capture therapy, 
Part I: Absorbed dose measurements,” Med. 
Phys. 32, 3729-3736, (2005). 
[2] J. F. Briesmeister (Ed.), “MCNP-A General 
Monte Carlo N-Particle Transport Code, 
Version 4C,” LA-13709-M, Los Alamos 
National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 
(2000). 
[3] J. K. Shultis and R. E. Faw, Radiation Shielding, 
p.477, American Nuclear Society, La Grange 
Park, Illinois (2000). 
[4] International Commission of Radiation 
Measurements and Units , “Clinical Neutron 
Dosimetry part I: Determination of absorbed 
dose in a patient treated by external beams of 
fast neutrons,” ICRU Report 45, Bethesda, 
Maryland (1989).  
[5] J. T. M. Jansen, C. P. J. Raaijmakers, B. J. 
Mijnheer, and J. Zoetekuef, “Relative Neutron 
Sensitivity of Tissue-Equivalent Ionization 
Chambers in an Epithermal Neutron Beam for 
Boron Neutron Capture Therapy,” Radiat. Prot. 
Dosim. 70, 27-32 (1997). 
[6] T. Y. Lin, “Development and validation of 
treatment planning system THORplan for the 
boron neutron capture therapy using Tsing Hua 
Open-pool Reactor,” Master Thesis, National 
Tsing Hua University (2004). 
[7] F. H. Attix, Introduction to Radiological 
Physics and Radiation Dosimetry, p.495, John 
Wiley & Sons Inc., New York (1986). 
15
Abstract 
 
The readout parameters of 7LiF:Mg,Cu,P thermoluminescence dosimeters were 
investigated in detail. The residual signal and the reproducibility of the 7LiF:Mg,Cu,P 
were the major concern. An optimum readout scheme has been established. The 
7LiF:Mg,Cu,P chips were used to measure the gamma-ray doses at the exit of the 
boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) beam in the Tsing Hua Open-pool Reactor. 
The results were compared with those measured using an ionization chamber with 
magnesium wall and argon flow gas. 
17
ionization chamber with magnesium wall and argon flow gas. 
 
2. Methods and Materials 
 
 TLD-700H TL chips 4.5 mm in diameter and 0.6 mm thick from Thermo 
(www.thermo.com) and TLD 7000 TL chips 4.5 mm in diameter and 0.8 mm thick 
from Rexon (www.rexon.com) were used. The TL chips were encapsulated in a 
cylindrical Teflon capsule with a wall thickness of 4 mm (each capsule can 
accommodate 3 chips) and irradiated in a 3-Ci 137Cs gamma-ray calibration facility 
for a test dose of around 1 mGy. The Rexon UL-320 TLD reader was used for TL 
readouts. N2 flow is always used while running readout cycles. A Rexon 
programmable oven with circulation fan was used for TL chip annealing. The readout 
scheme comprises a heating profile starting from heating up to 50 ℃ at 6th s and then 
a linear increase in temperature from 50 to 240 ℃ at a rate of 10 K s-1 followed by a 
constant temperature plateau to 10 s and the TL signal is read out from 10th to 35th s 
(the end of the heating profile). For oven annealing TL chips are put in the 7 x 7 dip 
array drilled on a stainless steel annealing tray 8 mm thick. When the oven 
temperature keeping at 240 ℃ the annealing tray with TL chips is inserted into the 
oven for 10 min and then taken out and put on an aluminum quench block at room 
temperature immediately. 
 
3. Results and Discussions 
 
3.1 Investigation of readout parameters 
 The residual signal (expressed as a percentage of the first readout) of the 
19
shows the residual signal as a function of total readout scheme time. Note that for the 
180-s total readout scheme time (155-s constant temperature plateau) the residual 
signal appeared to be around 0.1%. The standard deviations for 10 readout cycles 
using 180-s readout scheme were found to be 0.69% for TLD-7000 and 0.84% for 
TLD-700H. In order to further improve the reproducibility of the TL response the 
features of the glow curve were examined. It was found that the main peak of the 
glow curve (P3 in Fig. 2) is the most stable one and peaks P1 and P2 fade more 
quickly with half-lifes of 48.4 and 608.9 hours, respectively. A new readout scheme 
was designed. Starting from 50 ℃ at 6th s a preheat step is added in the heating profile 
which comprises a linear increase of temperature from 50 ℃ to 150 ℃ at a rate of 20 
K s-1 followed by a constant temperature plateau to 7 s. The following main heating 
from 150 ℃ at 18th s to 240 ℃ at 27th s at a rate of 10 K s-1 is followed by a constant 
temperature plateau to 153 s and this, in turn, give also a total readout scheme time of 
180 s. The TL signal is read out from 18th to 35th s. Figure 4 shows the heating 
profiles with and without preheat step. Applying the readout scheme with preheat step 
the readout TL signal precludes that from the easier fading P1 peak. The standard 
deviation of TLD-7000 for 10 readout cycles using the optimum readout scheme with 
preheat was found to be 0.5%. 
 
3.3 Measurement of gamma-ray doses in BNCT beam 
 Three pieces of TLD-7000 chips were loaded in the Teflon capsule and irradiated 
in the BNCT beam of the THOR at positions along the beam axis with distances of 20 
and 40 cm from the beam exit for measurements of gamma-ray doses. An Exradin 
type 2 Mg(Ar) ionization chamber with a volume of 0.53 cm3 together with the TLDs 
was irradiated simultaneously for comparison. The irradiation times were 6 and 12 
21
treated as individual detectors and calibrated separately. The major concerns were the 
residual signal and reproducibility. An optimum readout scheme featured with an 
extended constant temperature plateau and a preheat step was adopted, by which the 
standard deviation of TLD-7000 for 10 readout cycles was found to be 0.5%. The 
TLD-7000 chips were then used together with a 0.53-cm3 Mg(Ar) ionization chamber 
to measure the gamma-ray doses free-in-air in the BNCT beam of the THOR. It was 
found that the measured gamma-ray doses agreed very well between two detectors 
(within~3.5%). The neutron contributions for both detectors were evaluated to be 
insignificant (~2%). Following measurements in a water phantom, where it may incur 
more neutron contributions, will be carried out in the near future. 
 
Acknowledgements 
  
This work was supported by the National Science Council of the Republic of China 
under contract numbers NSC 95-2221-E-007-135 and -136. 
 
References 
 
1. Nakajima, T., Murayama, Y. Matsuzawa, T and Koyano, A. Development of a New 
Highly Sensitive LiF Thermoluminescent Dosimeter and its Application. Nucl. 
Instrum. Methods  157, 155-162 (1978). 
2. Delgado, A. Recent Improvements in LiF:Mg,Ti and LiF:Mg,Cu,P Based 
Enviromental Dosimetry. Radiat. Prot. Dosim. 66(1-4), 129-134 (1996). 
3. Sáez-Vergara, J. C., Recent developments of passive and active detectors used in 
the monitoring of external environmental radiation. Radiat. Prot. Dosim. 92(1-3), 
23
Radiat. Res. 83, 217-254 (1980).  
13. C. P. J. Raaijmakers, M. W. Konijnenberg, H. W. Verhagen and H. W. Mijnheer, 
Determination of dose components in phantoms irradiated with an epithermal 
neutron beam for boron neutron capture therapy, Med. Phys. 22(3), 321-329 
(1994). 
25
 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
P3
P2
P1
 
 
TL
 re
sp
on
se
 (a
rb
. u
ni
ts
) &
 te
m
p.
 (o
C
) 
Time (sec)
 Temp.
 10 min
 20 min
 40 min
 1 h
 2 h
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Glow curves for different oven-annealing times.  
 
 
INVESTIGATION OF OPTIMUM READOUT PARAMETERS OF LiF:Mg,Cu,P 
THERMOLUMINESCENT DOSIMETER 
Wen-Chyi Tsai, Hong-Ming Liu, and Shiang-Huei Jiang 
 
27
 
 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
 
 
C
ou
nt
 a
nd
 T
em
p.
(o C
)
Time (s)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. The heating profiles with and without preheat step. 
 
INVESTIGATION OF OPTIMUM READOUT PARAMETERS OF LiF:Mg,Cu,P 
THERMOLUMINESCENT DOSIMETER 
Wen-Chyi Tsai, Hong-Ming Liu, and Shiang-Huei Jiang 
 
29
 Table I. The relative intensity of residual signal for 6 consecutive readouts of 
LiF:Mg,Cu,P.  
 1 2 3 4 5 6 Total 
TLD-700H 100 3.32 1.82 1.22 0.84 0.59 7.79 
GR-200 [9] 100 2.50 1.40 0.80 0.60 0.40 5.70 
GR-200A [5] 100 0.89 0.37 0.12 0.07 0.04 1.49 
 
31
Figure captions 
 
Fig. 1. The residual signals for consecutive readouts of TLD-700H with different 
exposures. 
Fig. 2. Glow curves for different oven-annealing times. 
Fig. 3. The residual signal as a function of total readout scheme time. 
Fig. 4. The heating profiles with and without preheat step. 
Fig. 5. Neutron spectra at different detection positions. 
 
33
BNCT Epithermal Neutron Beam Mapping by using Indirect Neutron 
Radiography 
 
Yuan-Hao Liu1, Chun-Kai Huang1, Pi-En Tsai1, Ang-Yu Chen1, Hong-Ming Liu2, 
Shih-Chung Lee1,3 and Shiang-Huei Jiang1 
 
1 Dept. of Engineering and System Science, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, 
Taiwan, R.O.C. 
2Nuclear Science and Technology Development Center, National Tsing Hua University, 
Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
3Dept. of Electronic Engineering, Chinmin Institute of Technology, Miaoli, Taiwan, 
R.O.C. 
 
 
Corresponding author 
Shiang-Huei Jiang 
Dept. of Engineering and System Science, National Tsing Hua University, 101, Sec. 2, 
Kung Fu Road, Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Fax: +886-3-5725012 
Email: shjiang@mx.nthu.edu.tw 
 
This manuscript consists of 18 pages and 5 figures.
35
1. Introduction 
Boron Neutron Capture Therapy (BNCT) utilizes the nuclear reaction 10B(n,α)7Li 
occurred in the tumor, which emits two short range, high LET, heavy charged 
particles 4He and 7Li to destroy the tumor cell. Hence, BNCT highly depends on two 
essential terms: 1) the concentration of boron compound in the tumor, and 2) the 
number of thermal neutrons delivered to the tumor through moderating the incident 
epithermal neutrons by tissue material. The spatial distribution of the neutron source 
over the exit surface of an epithermal neutron beam is one of the necessary 
information to estimate the aforesaid second term. Consequently, it is always an 
enthusiastic topic to obtain the neutron profile. In the past, neutron profiles were 
normally measured by the activation method using small activation foils. The number 
of activation foils needed to be irradiated in the beam is proportional to the required 
spatial resolution. The better the resolution is required, the more the time and effort 
have to be paid. In order to obtain a high-resolution neutron profile, however, with a 
reasonable measuring time, the authors propose an innovative method to measure the 
two-dimensional (2D) neutron beam profile using the indirect neutron radiography. 
The indirect neutron radiography using an aluminum plate as the converter and an 
image plate as the activity detector was applied to measure the 2D beam profile of the 
BNCT epithermal neutron beam at the Tsing Hua Open-pool Reactor (THOR). The 
37
two-dimensional spatial distribution of neutron flux. The activity of the irradiated 
target is proportional to the product of the target cross section and the neutron flux. 
Hence, the activity distribution over the target is the relative distribution of the 
concerned neutron flux when the neutron spectrum is constant. As a result, the 
developed image can be processed into the neutron flux map after proper translation. 
2.3. Activation Converter 
In regard to the availability and cost, an 1-mm thick aluminium plate (>95 wt% 
of Al) was chosen to function as an activation converter to be irradiated in the beam 
for the neutron flux mapping. The aluminium plate was cut into a 20 cm x 40 cm 
rectangle. The produced nuclides have been analyzed by a well-calibrated High Purity 
Germanium (HPGe) detector right after a 15-min irradiation. The dominant 
radioisotope in the aluminium plate is 28Al formed from 27Al(n,γ)28Al reaction which 
is sensitive to thermal neutrons. The analyzed result is shown in Fig. 1.  
2.4. Imaging Plate 
Imaging plate (IP) system was first introduced by Fuji Film Co. in 1983 as an 
integrating, reusable, radiation sensitive area detector2. The IP applied in this work is 
type BAS-IIIs or the so-called white IP made by Fuji, whose phosphor material is 
BaFBr:Eu2+, and the IP reader is Fuji FLA-3000, whose pixel size is 50 µm. The 
dimensions of the BAS-IIIs IP are 20 cm wide and 40 cm long. It was chosen as the 
39
where kc is a conversion factor (PSL/Bq-sec); α(t) is the time dependent activity of 
radiation source (Bq); and Texp is the exposure time (sec). 
2.5. Experiment Configuration 
The aluminum plate was placed across the beam at the beam exit and aligned by a 
laser system. After the irradiation, the activated plate was removed from the beam and 
placed into an IP cassette for exposure. Inside the cassette, the aluminum plate was 
attached against the surface of IP. Such an arrangement increases the responses of IP 
to the radioactivity and also improves the quality of image because that the IP 
response is contributed dominantly from weak-penetrating beta particles compared to 
the decay gamma rays emitted from the 28Al beta decay. 
In order to minimize the influence caused by fading phenomenon, all the 
experiments are performed in a temperature-controlled dark room (16 ± 1°C). After 
the exposure, the IP was moved into the IP reader for development. The readout is in 
the form of digitalized data registered inside the controlling computer’s memory. For 
decreasing the statistical fluctuation of the obtained result, the central 14 cm by 14 cm 
square of the readout image was processed into a 25 by 25 matrix. Each element size 
is 5.6 mm by 5.6 mm, which still provides a satisfactory spatial resolution. All the 
image processing was done by using Fujifilm Image Gauge software. 
In order to obtain more information of the beam characteristics, the beam 
41
process was 10 min.  
It is clear that kc of Eq. 2 is confirmed to be constant. Hence the PSL value is 
directly proportional to the activity of the radiation source. In other words, the 
developed image of the exposed IP is the relative intensity map of the neutron flux 
across the aluminum plate. 
3.2. 2-D Neutron Flux Mapping using Indirect Neutron Radiography 
The aluminum plate was irradiated for 15 min with a reactor power of 1.2 MW to 
perform the indirect neutron radiography for the neutron flux mapping. A 15-min 
irradiation of aluminum plate will accumulate 99% saturated activity of 28Al whose 
half-life is 2.2 min. Any longer irradiation will only increase the activities of 
impurities in the plate. The activated aluminum plate was then exposed to the IP for 
30 min. The developed raw image is shown in Fig. 3. 
The neutron flux distribution is quite flat within 8-cm diameter at the beam center, 
where the difference is within ±2.5% according to the processed image (Fig. 4). The 
integrated value of each concerned element in the matrix was larger than 10,000 PSL. 
3.3. Calculated and Measured Horizontal Profile 
Figure 5 shows the 28Al activity profiles along the horizontal axis of the beam 
aperture, obtained from the IP measurement and MCNP calculations with 
cosine-shape, cosine-square-shape, designed-source, and adjusted designed-source 
43
The developed image of IP may not equal to the intensity distribution of the 
virtual neutron source in MCNP calculations due to the influence of angular 
distribution. When the concerned neutron source is close to isotropic, the neutron flux 
distribution will decrease much more rapidly near the beam edge than the forward 
sources do. From the neutron flux mapping result, it is concluded that the angular 
distribution of thermal neutron component of the THOR epithermal neutron beam is 
close to isotropic; as to the epithermal neutron component, it is much more forward. 
Acknowledgements 
This work was supported by the National Science Council of the Republic of 
China under contract number NSC95-2221-E-007-135 and -136. 
Reference 
1 Y. W. H. Liu, T. T. Huang, S. H. Jiang et al., Applied Radiation and Isotopes 
61 (5), 1039 (2004). 
2 M. Sonoda, M. Takano, J. Miyahara et al., Radiology 148 (3), 833 (1983). 
3 M. Thoms, Nuclear Instruments & Methods in Physics Research Section A - 
Accelerators Spectrometers Detectors and Associated Equipment 389 (3), 437 
(1997). 
4 H. Seggern, T. Voigt, W. Knupfer et al., Journal of Applied Physics 64 (3), 
1405 (1988). 
45
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000 2200 2400
1
10
100
1000
10000
 
 
C
ou
nt
s
Energy (keV)
51
1.
00
ke
V
75
6.
80
ke
V,
 A
l-2
8 
(D
ou
bl
e 
E
sc
.)
84
6.
60
ke
V,
 M
n-
56
12
67
.8
0k
eV
, A
l-2
8 
(S
in
gl
e 
E
sc
.)
17
78
.8
0k
eV
, A
l-2
8
18
11
.2
0k
eV
, M
n-
56
21
12
.6
0k
eV
, M
n-
56
 
Fig. 1. Neutron activation analysis of the aluminium plate 
 
 
 
 
 
BNCT Epithermal Neutron Beam Mapping by using Indirect Neutron 
Radiography 
Yuan-Hao Liu, Chun-Kai Huang, Pi-En Tsai, Ang-Yu Chen, Hong-Ming Liu, 
Shih-Chung Lee and Shiang-Huei Jiang 
47
 Fig. 3. The developed raw image of IP; It was exposed to the aluminium plate which 
was irradiated at the center of THOR epithermal neutron beam exit. 
 
 
 
 
BNCT Epithermal Neutron Beam Mapping by using Indirect Neutron 
Radiography 
Yuan-Hao Liu, Chun-Kai Huang, Pi-En Tsai, Ang-Yu Chen, Hong-Ming Liu, 
Shih-Chung Lee and Shiang-Huei Jiang 
49
-6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
 
 
R
el
at
iv
e 
In
te
ns
ity
Horizontal Position (cm)
 MCNP Cal. (Th_iso)
 MCNP Cal. (Cosine2)
 MCNP Cal. (Cosine)
 MCNP Cal. (Original)
 Imaging Plate
 MnNi
 AuAl
 
Fig. 5. Measured and calculated horizontal profiles of 28Al activity distribution 
 
 
 
 
BNCT Epithermal Neutron Beam Mapping by using Indirect Neutron 
Radiography 
Yuan-Hao Liu, Chun-Kai Huang, Pi-En Tsai, Ang-Yu Chen, Hong-Ming Liu, 
Shih-Chung Lee and Shiang-Huei Jiang 
51
Coarse-Scaling Adjustment of Fine-group Neutron Spectrum for Epithermal 
Neutron Beams in BNCT using Multiple Activation Detectors 
 
Y.H. Liua, S. Nievaartb, P.E. Tasia, H.M. Liuc, R. Mossb, S.H. Jianga,* 
 
aEngineering and System Science Department, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan 
bInstitute for Energy, Joint Research Centre, European Commission, The Netherlands 
cNuclear Science and Technology Development Center, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Currently, there are ten epithermal neutron beams that have been built around the 
world for boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) purposes [1; 2]. BNCT utilizes thermal 
neutrons in tissue from an epithermal neutron beam which are moderated to react with boron 
compounds in the tumor, to induce the 10B(n,α)7Li reaction. The produced short-range, heavy 
charged, particles 4He and 7Li then act to destroy the tumor cell. Most of the aforesaid beams 
were installed after 1990. Although many papers have been published on neutron spectrum 
unfolding and adjustment topics, most of them focus on algorithms and reactor dosimetry. 
Spectrum metrology studies and practices in epithermal neutron beams are few and contain 
few details [3; 4; 5]. 
For BNCT, in order to calculate the dose components precisely, a well-characterized 
beam has to be established, especially the neutron spectrum and neutron fluence. For this 
purpose, multiple activation foils are irradiated in the beam in order to extract valuable 
information from the measured results [6; 7]. Activation detectors, i.e. foils, are widely 
applied in neutron metrology in reactor dosimetry and have many advantages, such as high 
reliability, low cost, wide measurable flux range, and small size. Each activation detector is 
related to a specific nuclear reaction, and has its own unique cross-section which is sensitive 
to neutrons of certain energies. Due to these different responses, which cover different 
neutron energies, the measured reaction rates of the activation foils are used as indications to 
adjust the beam spectrum. 
For the important propose of treatment planning, for example, a well-characterized 
neutron source description, with a fine-group adjusted spectrum is recommended in order to 
have less uncertainties caused by the groupwise cross-sections and the weighting spectra. 
Differences caused by a coarse-group spectrum can be large, when compared to a fine-group 
spectrum for the ideal reaction rate calculation. An example of this effect will be shown in the 
results. 
The neutron capture reactions are generally sensitive to thermal neutrons and neutrons 
with energies located in the resonance peaks. For example, 115In(n,γ)116mIn reaction is 
sensitive to thermal neutrons and neutrons around 1.457 eV. Such a characteristic is an 
advantage, but also a disadvantage, especially for a beam dominated with epithermal neutrons 
where the foils are most sensitive in the resonance region. If the pre-calculated, initial 
spectrum deviates slightly from the "true" spectrum or in other words, the measured and 
calculated activities of foils are somewhat different, then fine structures will appear as peaks 
and valleys after the spectrum adjustment. For a fine-group adjustment in an epithermal 
neutron beam, these peaks and valleys are even more significant. 
In physics, the continuity of a spectrum is a necessary condition to be meaningful. 
Unfolding codes such as the well-known SAND-II [8] can generate numerous adjusted 
spectra and can fit the measurement results reasonably well; but at the cost of introducing 
discontinuities. These spectra are mathematical solutions, but are often meaningless from the 
physics point of view. Based on previous studies [9; 10; 11], the authors propose an 
53
RRideal is the ideal reaction rate per atom (sec-1-atom-1); E is the neutron energy (MeV); 
φ(E) is the energy dependent neutron fluence rate of the beam (neutron-sec-1-cm-2); and σ(E) 
refers to the energy dependent cross section of the relevant nuclear reaction (barn; 10-24 cm2). 
Due to the radioactivity caused by the neutron activation which is related to the degree 
of the resulting reaction rate, the true reaction rate per atom is determined experimentally 
from the activity of the produced radioisotope after irradiation of the foil: 
[ ]0
1
1 exp( )mea atom irr
RR
N T
α λ= − −                                                                               (2) 
where RRmea is the measured reaction rate per atom; α0 is the activity of the foil after the 
irradiation (Bq); Natom is the number of target atoms in the foil; λ is the decay constant of the 
produced radioactive daughter nuclide (sec-1); and Tirr is the irradiation time (sec). The 
activities of the irradiated foils are measured by proper detectors, such as a high purity 
germanium (HPGe) detector which is used as a gamma spectrometer to measure the number 
of relevant gamma rays emitted after disintegration. From the HPGe measurement, the RRmea 
is then derived from the following equation: 
[ ]
1
1 exp( ) exp( )[1 exp( )]
peak
mea
atom irr r peak c mea
C
RR
N T B T T
λ
λ ε λ λ= ×− − − − −                          (3) 
where Cpeak is the net count of the full energy peak measured by HPGe (counts); Br is the 
branch ratio of the relevant gamma rays (gammas-decay-1); εpeak is the peak efficiency 
(counts-Bq-1); Tc and Tmea stand for the cooling time and counting time (sec) respectively. 
All the foils were counted by well-calibrated HPGe detectors with good resolution 
(<1.9 keV at 1.332 MeV) in the HFR and the THOR. The statistical error of the counting is 
kept below 1% for capture reactions, and smaller than 2% for threshold reactions. The 
necessary self-absorption corrections are made with the aid of MCNP calculations. The 
irradiations performed in both reactor beams are normalized by respective on-line real-time 
neutron monitoring system [16; 17]. 
The reaction rate per atom derived from Eq. (3) is not yet adequate enough to be used 
for the spectrum adjustment. The placement of the foils in the beam will cause disturbances to 
the beam intensity and energy. Proper corrections have to be made for the so-called self-
shielding effect [18]. For this purpose, MCNP is used to generate the self-shielding correction 
factor G [19]. The measured reaction rate per atom is modified to the ideal case RRideal as: 
mea
ideal
RRRR
G
=                                                                                                            (4) 
The ideal reaction rate per atom RRideal is then taken as the indicator for the spectrum 
adjustment. 
 
2.4. UNFOLDING PROGRAM AND CROSS-SECTION DATA LIBRARY 
A user-friendly, custom-made computer program named SAND-EX has been 
developed for the spectrum adjustment work and analysis. SAND-EX is an extended version 
of SAND-II which uses the same algorithm as SAND-II but has extra useful accessories such 
as group expansion, splitting, and compression. Another feature of this program is the easy 
maintainability in the cross-section library. 
In this study, the SAND-II 640-group structure is applied when the fine-group 
adjustment is performed. Cross-section data libraries used here are built using PREPRO-2007 
[20]. The latest ENDF/B-VII.0 [21], JEFF-3.1/A [22], IRDF-2002 [23] are processed and 
used. In order to be consistent, the same cross-section data libraries are used as in the MCNP 
calculations. For the 47-group and 39-group cross-section data libraries, these are processed 
using Maxwellian, 1/E and fission weighting spectra built in PREPRO-2007. The 640-group 
55
 
3.2. DISCOUNTINUITY 
It is understandable from the above paragraphs that the measured and the a priori 
estimated reaction rates may be different, and that the adjustment code has to be utilized to 
make them consistent.  
In order to correct the initial spectrum, the measured results are used. For each specific 
nuclear reaction, it has a unique cross-section which is also called the detector response 
function. Different foils are sensitive to different neutron energies according to their own 
cross-sections. In the spectrum adjustment procedure, a set of weighting factors are generated 
using the cross-section data and the ratio of the measured to calculated values. Consequently, 
groups where there is a resonance peak or peaks are assigned greater weighting factors. On 
the other hand, groups with a low interaction probability with the foils have much smaller 
weighting factors, which cause only slight adjustment to the group values. When a fine-group 
spectrum adjustment is applied, such a phenomenon is even enhanced because more freedom 
is added to the adjustment. As a result, the adjusted spectrum will look very spiky in the 
epithermal neutron region after adjustment into the fine-group structure. In Fig. 3, an example 
of the peaks and valleys can be easily seen. From the cross-sections of the 115In(n,γ)116mIn and 
197Au(n,γ)198Au reactions plotted also in Fig. 3, it is clear that the first significant valley is 
caused by the 115In(n,γ)116mIn reaction and the second one is caused by because of the 
197Au(n,γ)198Au reaction. The other peaks and valleys are induced by other resonance peaks of 
the multiple foils.  
 
3.3. COARSE-SCALING ADJUSTMENT 
For a spectrum with good continuity, the height of each group should be similar to its 
neighbours. Large oscillations like peaks and valleys have to be avoided. However, because 
of the intrinsic property of the adjustment algorithm, it is difficult to avoid placing emphasis 
on certain groups. Such cases will become even worse when a fine-group structure is applied, 
which has advantages in reducing the uncertainties of the groupwise cross-sections. 
In the quest to solve the problem of erratic structures, an idea has been borrowed from 
the commonly used double-foil [24] and cadmium-difference method [25], which are widely 
applied in determining the thermal and epithermal neutron fluence rates. The essential 
assumptions of the method are 1) Maxwellian distribution and 2) 1/E distribution in the 
thermal and epithermal neutron groups, respectively. The cross-section data is weighted by 
the assumed distributions. Only two groups are used for the whole thermal and epithermal 
energy ranges. Considering that the two-group neutron fluence rates are adjusted by two 
measured reaction rates, the adjusted calculated reaction rates will be exactly the same as the 
measured results. Actually, it is just a scaling action taken for a given two-group neutron 
spectrum. Therefore, the problems caused by weighting factors do not exist when applying 
this method. When the neutron field is quite close to the assumed condition, in other words, 
well moderated, the determined neutron fluence rates are adequate [26]. 
A similar procedure can be applied to more groups. In order to compensate for the 
dramatic enhancements at the resonance peaks, the authors propose a reasonably coarse group 
scaling before fine-group adjustment is performed. Similar to the double-foil technique, the 
scaling should act according to a physically-sound basis. Any arbitrary coarse-scaling is risky 
and unwise. The calculated initial spectrum is the most physically based information, apart 
from the measured reaction rates. 
Therefore, the 47-group and 39-group initial spectra are compressed into 11 groups 
and 12 groups according to the number of foils in order to perform the coarse scaling. The 
principle in deciding the new structure is based on the reasoning that each new group can find 
a proper reaction as an indication. First, the sensitivity test is studied to find the leading 
57
without any treatment, the spectra are directly adjusted into fine-group structure according to 
the measured results. In the other procedure, the spectra are first adjusted by coarse-scaling 
before performing the fine-group adjustment. Both adjustment procedures are performed by 
SAND-EX. The adjusted spectra are presented in Figs. 4 and 5. For reasons of clarity, the two 
spectra are shown on two different scales in Figs. 4 and 5. 
For the spectra without coarse-scaling, many significant peaks and valleys appear. As 
to the coarse-scaling treated spectra, the erratic structures have been significant reduced. 
Some minor discontinuities are still observed in the spectra adjusted by the second procedure. 
This mainly results from the different weighting functions used in the cross-section data 
libraries, and is caused by the spectrum expansion. For the coarse-group cross-section 
libraries, they are generated by using weighting spectra mentioned in Section 2.4. As for the 
640-group cross-section libraries, they are generated using the flat-weighting spectrum. 
Therefore, the weighting spectra problem again appears here. Furthermore, the spectra fitted 
after the group expansion show a different shape from the 1/E distribution. As a result, the 
ideal reaction rates per atom calculated by the adjusted coarse-group spectra and the expanded 
spectra from the above spectra are not the same. Consequently, the expanded spectra are 
adjusted again by SAND-EX to be consistent to the measurement. 
In order to smooth out the adjusted spectra and make the results consistent, an extra 
adjustment procedure is introduced after the coarse-scaling. The adjusted coarse-group spectra 
are expanded into 640 groups without any further spectrum adjustment. Afterward, the 
coarse-scaling according to Eq. (13) is performed again, and the adjacent averaging is used to 
smooth out the discontinuous values occurring at the new coarse-group boundaries. As the 
distance from the new group boundary to the main resonance peaks is large, the adjacent 
averaging performed at the boundaries does not affect the calculated reaction rates. The re-
adjusted spectra are then adjusted freely as the final step. The final adjusted spectra are 
illustrated in Figs. 6 and 7. 
 
4.3. MEASURED vs CALCULATED RRideal by ADJUSTED SPECTRA 
A final check is performed using MCNP to calculate the ideal reaction rates per atom, 
RRMCNP, of the multiple foils and compared to RRmea and RRSAND. The measured and 
calculated reaction rates are given in Tables 9 and 10 for the THOR and HFR. It can be 
observed that all of them match well. 
 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
The ideal reaction rates per atom calculated using the coarse-group spectrum in 
MCNP and SAND-II are not matching due to the weighting spectra applied. For a coarse-
group spectrum, a flat weighting spectrum is not adequate enough to provide an accurate 
description of the neutron distribution in the groups. Calculations, which are performed based 
on the previous assumption, are risky. In order to eliminate such a difference, the authors have 
suggested that the fine-group structure should be used instead of the coarse-group structure. 
When the fine-group spectrum is applied, the flat weighting spectrum becomes acceptable. 
For example, when the groupwise version of IRDF-2002 which is processed into the 640-
group SAND-II structure using the flat-weighting spectrum, is applied, Eqs. (5) and (10) 
become the same as Eqs. (6) and (9) are identical. 
When a coarse-group initial spectrum of an epithermal neutron dominated beam is 
adjusted into a fine-group structure, the difference between the measured reaction rates and 
the calculated results will cause many peaks and valleys in the epithermal energy region. To 
avoid these erratic structures, the authors have demonstrated that a coarse-scaling performed 
according to the number of nuclear reactions used and the initial spectrum can effectively 
suppress the number of peaks and valleys and provide better continuity. The continuity 
59
REFERENCE 
[1]Current Status of Neutron Capture Therapy, IAEA, Vienna, 2001. 
[2]W.O. Voorbraak, Recommendations for the Dosimetry of Boron Neutron Capture Therapy 
(BNCT), NRG, Petten, 2003. 
[3]I. Auterinen, T. Seren, K. Anttila, A. Kosunen, S. Savolainen, Applied Radiation and 
Isotopes 61 (2004) 1021. 
[4]Y.D. Harker, R.A. Anderl, G.K. Becker, L.G. Miller, Nuclear Science and Engineering 110 
(1992) 355. 
[5]Y. Sakurai, T. Kobayashi, Nuclear Instruments & Methods in Physics Research Section A-
Accelerators Spectrometers Detectors and Associated Equipment 531 (2004) 585. 
[6]Standard Guide for Selection and Use of Neutron Sensors for Determining Neutron Spectra 
Employed in Radiation-Hardness Testing of Electronics, ASTM International, 2004. 
[7]Standard Guide for Determining Neutron Energy Spectra from Neutron Sensors for 
Radiation-Hardness Testing of Electronics, ASTM International, 2007. 
[8]S. Berg, W.N. McElroy, A Computer-Automated Iterative Method for Neutron Flux 
Spectra Determination by Foil Activation. SAND II (Spectrum Analysis by Neutron 
Detectors II) and Associated Codes, 1967. 
[9]W.E. Freudenreich, Neutron Spectrum Adjustments for the Petten and Otaniemi BNCT 
Beams, NRG, Petten, 2001. 
[10]P. Watkins, Y. Harker, C. Amaro, W. Voorbraak, F. Stecher-Rasmussen, H. Verhagen, C. 
Perks, H. Delafield, G. Constantine, R.L. Moss, Nuclear Characterisation of the HFR 
Petten BNCT Facility. in: A.H. Soloway, (Ed.), Advances in Neutron Capture Therapy 
(Proc of the 5th intl symp on neutron capture therapy, Columbus, Ohio, Sept 14-17,1993) 
Plenum Press, New York, 1993, pp. 59. 
[11]P. Watkins, M. Konijnenberg, G. Constantine, H. Rief, R. Ricchena, J.B.M.d. Haas, W. 
Freudenreich, Review of the Physics Calculations Performed for the BNCT Facility at the 
HFR Petten. in: D. Gable, R. Moss, (Eds.), Boron Neutron Capture Therapy: toward 
clinical trials of glioma treatment, Plenum Press, New York, 1992, pp. 47. 
[12]Y.W.H. Liu, T.T. Huang, S.H. Jiang, H.M. Liu, Applied Radiation and Isotopes 61 (2004) 
1039. 
[13]F. Stecher-Rasmussen, G. Constantine, W. Freudenreich, H.d. Haas, R.L. Moss, A. 
Paardekooper, K. Ravensberg, H. Verhagen, W. Voorbraak, P. Watkins, From Filter 
Installation to Beam Characterization. in: D. Gable, R. Moss, (Eds.), Boron Neutron 
Capture Therapy: toward clinical trials of glioma treatment, Plenum Press, New York, 
1992, pp. 59. 
[14]M. Matzke, Radiation Protection Dosimetry 107 (2003) 155. 
[15]J. Briesmeister, MCNP-A General Monte Carlo N-Particle Transport Code, Version 4C, 
Los Alamos National Laboratory, 2000. 
[16]Y.-H. Liu, S.-H. Jiang, Y.-W.H. Liu, H.-M. Liu, On-line Neutron Monitoring System of 
Epithermal Neutron Beam for BNCT at THOR. in: Y. Nakagawa, T. Kobayashi, H. 
Fukuda, (Eds.), Advances in Neutron Capture Therapy 2006 (Proceedings of ISNCT-12), 
International Society for Neutron Capture Therapy, 2006, pp. 413. 
[17]C.P.J. Raaijmakers, E.L. Nottelman, M.W. Konijnenberg, B.J. Mijnheer, Physics in 
Medicine and Biology (1996) 2789. 
[18]K.H. Beckurts, K. Wirtz, Neutron Physics, Springer-Verlag, New York, 1964. 
[19]I.F. Goncalves, E. Martinho, J. Salgado, Applied Radiation and Isotopes 56 (2002) 945. 
[20]D.E. Cullen, PREPRO 2007: 2007 ENDF/B Pre-processing Codes, IAEA, 2007. 
[21]P.O. M.B. Chadwick, M. Herman et al., Nuclear Data Sheets 107 (2006) 2931. 
[22]J.-C. Sublet, A.J. Koning, R.A. Forrest, J. Kopecky, The JEFF-3.0/A Neutron Activation 
File - EAF-2003 into ENDF-6 format -, NEA, OECD, 2003. 
61
 
Table 1. The 47-group structure of the THOR beam 
N Elower (MeV) Eupper (MeV)  N Elower (MeV) Eupper (MeV) 
1 1.0000E-11 1.0000E-07  25 3.6883E-01 4.9787E-01 
2 1.0000E-07 4.1399E-07  26 4.9787E-01 6.0810E-01 
3 4.1399E-07 8.7643E-07  27 6.0810E-01 7.4274E-01 
4 8.7643E-07 1.8554E-06  28 7.4274E-01 8.2085E-01 
5 1.8554E-06 5.0435E-06  29 8.2085E-01 1.0026E+00 
6 5.0435E-06 1.0677E-05  30 1.0026E+00 1.3534E+00 
7 1.0677E-05 3.7266E-05  31 1.3534E+00 1.6530E+00 
8 3.7266E-05 1.0130E-04  32 1.6530E+00 1.9205E+00 
9 1.0130E-04 2.1445E-04  33 1.9205E+00 2.2313E+00 
10 2.1445E-04 4.5400E-04  34 2.2313E+00 2.3457E+00 
11 4.5400E-04 1.5846E-03  35 2.3457E+00 2.3653E+00 
12 1.5846E-03 3.3546E-03  36 2.3653E+00 2.4660E+00 
13 3.3546E-03 7.1017E-03  37 2.4660E+00 2.7253E+00 
14 7.1017E-03 1.5034E-02  38 2.7253E+00 3.0119E+00 
15 1.5034E-02 2.1875E-02  39 3.0119E+00 3.6788E+00 
16 2.1875E-02 2.4176E-02  40 3.6788E+00 4.9659E+00 
17 2.4176E-02 2.6058E-02  41 4.9659E+00 6.0653E+00 
18 2.6058E-02 3.1828E-02  42 6.0653E+00 7.4082E+00 
19 3.1828E-02 4.0868E-02  43 7.4082E+00 8.6071E+00 
20 4.0868E-02 6.7379E-02  44 8.6071E+00 1.0000E+01 
21 6.7379E-02 1.1109E-01  45 1.0000E+01 1.2214E+01 
22 1.1109E-01 1.8316E-01  46 1.2214E+01 1.4191E+01 
23 1.8316E-01 2.9721E-01  47 1.4191E+01 1.7332E+01 
24 2.9721E-01 3.6883E-01     
 
Table 2. The 39-group structure of the HFR beam 
N Elower (MeV) Eupper (MeV)  N Elower (MeV) Eupper (MeV) 
1 1.000E-09 1.000E-07  21 1.410E-02 1.680E-02 
2 1.000E-07 1.000E-06  22 1.680E-02 2.000E-02 
3 1.000E-06 2.440E-06  23 2.000E-02 2.380E-02 
4 2.440E-06 4.880E-06  24 2.380E-02 2.830E-02 
5 4.880E-06 9.770E-06  25 2.830E-02 3.360E-02 
6 9.770E-06 1.950E-05  26 3.360E-02 4.000E-02 
7 1.950E-05 3.910E-05  27 4.000E-02 5.660E-02 
8 3.910E-05 7.810E-05  28 5.660E-02 8.000E-02 
9 7.810E-05 1.560E-04  29 8.000E-02 1.130E-01 
10 1.560E-04 3.130E-04  30 1.130E-01 1.600E-01 
11 3.130E-04 6.250E-04  31 1.600E-01 2.260E-01 
12 6.250E-04 1.250E-03  32 2.260E-01 3.200E-01 
13 1.250E-03 1.770E-03  33 3.200E-01 4.530E-01 
14 1.770E-03 2.500E-03  34 4.530E-01 6.400E-01 
15 2.500E-03 3.540E-03  35 6.400E-01 9.050E-01 
16 3.540E-03 5.000E-03  36 9.050E-01 1.810E+00 
17 5.000E-03 7.070E-03  37 1.810E+00 3.620E+00 
18 7.070E-03 1.000E-02  38 3.620E+00 7.240E+00 
19 1.000E-02 1.190E-02  39 7.240E+00 1.450E+01 
20 1.190E-02 1.410E-02     
63
 
Table 6. RRideal calculated by SAND and MCNP using the THOR 47-group initial spectrum 
Nuclear Reaction RRSAND RRMCNP Difference 
115In(n,γ)116mIn 3.746E-13 3.231E-13 13.77% 
45Sc(n,γ)46Sc 3.646E-15 3.649E-15 -0.10% 
197Au(n,γ)198Au 2.142E-13 2.901E-13 -35.47% 
139La(n,γ)140La 2.353E-15 2.496E-15 -6.04% 
55Mn(n,γ)56Mn 2.789E-15 2.844E-15 -1.97% 
63Cu(n,γ)64Cu 1.067E-15 9.411E-16 11.82% 
186W(n,γ)187W 8.076E-14 7.250E-14 10.22% 
59Co(n,γ)60Co 1.488E-14 1.378E-14 7.39% 
115In(n,n’)115mIn 8.305E-19 8.241E-19 0.77% 
58Ni(n,p)58Co 3.675E-19 3.717E-19 -1.15% 
27Al(n,α)24Na 4.002E-21 4.296E-21 -7.36% 
 
Table 7. The compressed 11-group structure of the THOR beam 
N Elower (MeV) 
Eupper 
(MeV) 
Corresponding 
Nuclear Reaction 
Percentage of 
Reaction Rate 
1 1.000E-11 4.140E-07 45Sc(n,γ)46Sc 59% 
2 4.140E-07 1.855E-06 115In(n,γ)116mIn 89% 
3 1.855E-06 1.068E-05 197Au(n,γ)198Au 89% 
4 1.068E-05 3.727E-05 186W(n,γ)187W 90% 
5 3.727E-05 1.013E-04 139La(n,γ)140La 48% 
6 1.013E-04 2.145E-04 59Co(n,γ)60Co 64% 
7 2.145E-04 4.540E-04 55Mn(n,γ)56Mn 28% 
8 4.540E-04 2.972E-01 63Cu(n,γ)64Cu 45% 
9 2.972E-01 2.466E+00 115In(n,n’)115mIn Threshold 
10 2.466E+00 1.000E+01 58Ni(n,p)58Co Threshold 
11 1.000E+01 1.733E+01 27Al(n,a)24Na Threshold 
 
 
Table 8. The compressed 12-group structure of the HFR beam 
N Elower (MeV) 
Eupper 
(MeV) 
Corresponding 
Nuclear Reaction 
Percentage of 
Reaction Rate 
1 1.000E-09 1.000E-07 197Au(n,γ)198Au† 1% 
2 1.000E-07 1.000E-06 45Sc(n,γ)46Sc 42% 
3 1.000E-06 2.440E-06 115In(n,γ)116mIn 87% 
4 2.440E-06 4.880E-06 197Au(n,γ)198Au 36% 
5 4.880E-06 9.770E-06 238U(n,γ)239U 44% 
6 9.770E-06 3.910E-05 186W(n,γ)187W 94% 
7 3.910E-05 1.560E-04 139La(n,γ)140La 70% 
8 1.560E-04 1.770E-03 55Mn(n,γ)56Mn 56% 
9 1.770E-03 4.530E-01 63Cu(n,γ)64Cu 8% 
10 4.530E-01 1.810E+00 115In(n,n’)115mIn Threshold 
11 1.810E+00 3.620E+00 58Ni(n,p)58Co Threshold 
12 3.620E+00 1.450E+01 27Al(n,a)24Na Threshold 
† This foil is placed in front of the cadmium box. It is the only foil sensitive to thermal 
neutrons. 
 
65
 
Figure 1. The initial spectra of the THOR and HFR epithermal neutron beams 
67
 
Figure 3. An example of a spectrum with peaks and valleys; the In-115(n,γ) and Au-197(n,γ) cross-sections are 
also shown. 
69
Figure 5. Comparison between the spectra with and without coarse-scaling (HFR) 
71
 
Figure 7. The final adjusted 640-group spectrum of the HFR beam 
 
 
 
73
