I. INTRODUCTION
Transport in individual single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) [1, 2] has attracted
many interests in recent years. Many simulation-based studies have investigated the poten-
tial to exploit the unique nanometer scale and electronic properties of SWNTs to develop
nano-scale electronic devices. Carbon nanotubes (CNs) are suitable for a broad range of
potential applications [3–5]. In terms of their application as electronic devices, CNs can
be regarded as one-dimensional ”quantum wires”, which may be either semi-conducting or
metallic depending on their chiral vector[6]. In addition to the electronics application, many
researchers have been developing studies on spintronics[7–10]. Spintronics is functioned by
using the spin degree of freedom to make the deviation in electric properties[11, 12].
In this study, we connect a CN by magnetic electrodes on both sides, as depicted in Fig.
1, and calculate the current difference between both electrodes in parallel and anti-parallel
orientations of magnetic polarization. We suppose that the transport is ballistic and the spin
coherent length is longer than the tube length, which have been confirmed by experiments[13,
14]. The reason of current deviation between different polarized configurations for electrodes
is the injecting electrons from different polarized electrodes carry different energies from spin-
dependent self-energies. In addition to the electric energy shifted by applying bias voltage
to both different spin polarized electrons, the electrons with up (down) spin will gain (loss)
the magnetic energy in a positive polarized electrode, where the positive direction is defined
parallel to the up spin. Therefore the electrons will inject into CN under a bias, which will
loss the energy when the configuration of magnetic polarization of both electrodes is anti-
parallel giving rise to the current decrease. On the contrary, the parallel configuration makes
the current increase. Our results explicitly indicate the difference between the resistance in
parallel and antiparallel configurations is significant when the magnetic electrode has narrow
bandwidth. The magnitude of magnetization, corresponding to a large internal magnetic
energy with energy split between spin up and down electrons, also makes the resistance
different from both configurations. In this study we have considered the coupling between
CN and electrodes, which exists in real case and is modelled by a coupling constant giving
rise to a energy modification for CN. Eventually, we employ the Bu¨ttiker formula to calculate
the electric currents.
The structure of the paper is organized as follows. The section II shows detail theoret-
2
A. Eigenvalue of the end site of a semi-infinite long magnetic-electrodes
The conductive magnetic-electrodes connected with CN are assumed to be semi-infinitely
long. The Hamiltonian used to describe the magnetic electrode in the tight-binding repre-
sentation is,
H = Eσ0
∑
n
|fn〉〈fn|+ Vs
∑
n
(|fn〉〈fn+1|+ h.c) (1)
where the Eσ0 is the energy level of magnetic electrode, which is spin-dependent , with
internal magnetic energy Em different from different spins, σ = ±12 , and Vs is the hopping
energy between nearest neighbor sites, since the band width of the electrodes is, W , is 4Vs.
In matrix representation the Hamiltonian becomes,
H =

Eσ0 Vs
Vs E
σ
0 Vs
Vs E
σ
0
. . .
. . . . . . Vs
Vs E
σ
0

(2)
The calculation of Green’s function of the Hamiltonian reveals the information of eigenvalues
on the semi-infinite chain, where we are interested in the Green’s function of the connecting
head of magnetic chain, G(E)00 indexed 0, which is
G(E)00 = (E −H)−100 (3)
Employing the recursive method [18] to the Green’s function follows the relations,
G(E)00 =
D1
D0
=
1
E − Eσ0 − V 2s D2D1
=
1
E − Eσ0 − V
2
s
E−Eσ0−
V 2s
E−Eσ
0
−V
2
s
...
(4)
where the Dn means the nth order determinant of (E − H), which follows the relation
Dn−2 = (E − Eσ0 )Dn−1 − V 2s Dn. This recursive equation of G(E)00 in the large bandwidth
of electrodes can be solved as
4
The HBB in eq.(10) represents the eigenvalue of connecting head electrode, which is derived
from the pole of eq.(5). Therefore the spin dependent self-energies for the connecting heads
of CN are
Σ(E)σL,R =
V 2e
E−EL,R
2
+ i
√
V 2s − (
E−EσL,R
2
)2
(11)
where EσL(R) is the spin-dependent eigenvalue of the left (right) end heads of magnetic elec-
trode, and Ve is the coupling interaction between left right electrodes and CN.
C. The tight-binding representation of the Hamiltonian of the carbon nanotube
The CN has a finite length and is biased between the left and right magnetic electrodes.
This two-dimensional system can be effectively transferred to be one-dimensional by per-
forming a Fourier transformation to circular period in the tube, in which we define it as x
direction, and leave non-periodic atomic coordinates in the direction of transport, in which
we define it as y direction. The Hamiltonian of the CN, describing the energy levels and
hopping integrals of the carbon atoms and their interactions with the electrodes, has the
form,
H =
∑
i
Emi |φi〉〈φi|+
∑
i
tij(|φi〉〈φj|+ h.c), (12)
where the Emi is the energy level of the ith sites in y direction, noticeably that the first
and the final sites contain the self-energies derived from above subsections exhibiting the
interaction with magnetic electrodes, and tij is the hoping integral between the ith and the
jth sites along y. The spin-dependent Hamiltonian in tight binding representation for the
zigzag CN is
Hσ,σ
′
zig =

Em +
∑σ
L t1
t1 E
m t2
t2 E
m t1
t1 E
m t2
t2
. . . . . .
. . . Em +
∑σ′
R

, (13)
where t1 = 2tcos(
kx
2
a), t is the hopping integral, a is the lattice constant; the momentum
vector kx =
Npi
Ncha
, with discrete values, N = 0, 1, 2, · · · , Nch − 1, where Nch is the number of
6
FIG. 2: The difference between the tunnel resistance (∆R) in the parallel (Rp) and antiparallel (Ra)
alignment of electrodes. The difference of resistance is significant for narrow bandwidth electrodes,
in which the internal magnetic energy, Em, is 0.3. W is the bandwidth of electrodes. All energies
are in the unit of eV
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
The length of the CN we have taken is 10 honeycomb numbers(≈ 25A˚), which can be
fabricated easily in today’s nanotechnology. The hopping integral of the CN, t, in eq.(13) is
-3.0eV[6] and the coupling constant between CN and electrodes is -0.5eV. For simplicity the
bias applying to electrodes are symmetrical without loss in the contact and the voltages on
the left and right electrodes are +Va
2
and −Va
2
, respectively. In reality the applying bias will
be distributed by the ratio κ for left and right electrodes with voltages κVa and −(1− κ)Va,
respectively. For the symmetric case the κ is 0.5.
By our theory we suppose that the electrons with different spins injecting from magnetic
electrodes in the tunnelling through contact junction bring different internal magnetic en-
ergy, Em. The spins parallel (antiparallel) to electrode’s magnetic orientation gain (loss)
the Em, which totally involved interactions in spin dependent selfenergies. On the consid-
eration for the spintronics application, the resistance deviation between both alignments of
8
the curve goes to a plateau, which is evident for electrode with small Em. There are other
plateaus showing during the biasing process, and eventually each one goes to a ultimate
saturation. The maximum RD depends on Em; Em corresponds to the amplitude of mag-
netization for electrodes. The Em increase makes spins approach to unitary leading to RD
enhancement. Particularly, RD shows a small peak at a proper bias, this peak comes from
the Fermi level of electrode driven by bias crossing over the extreme density of states of the
band dispersion of CN.
IV. CONCLUSION
We derive a theory of a spin dependent current formula to model the spintronics by carbon
nanotube. The difference between the tunnel resistance in the parallel and antiparallel
alignment of the magnetization of electrodes is increasing under the electric bias driving.
The narrow bandwidth electrodes makes the resistance difference significant.
V. ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported by the National Science Council in Taiwan through Grant
Nos. NSC-94-2112-M-390-001 and NSC 94-2215-E-390-007. The hospitality of the National
Center for Theoretical Science, where the work was initiated, is greatly acknowledged.
[1] Y. Xue and M. A. Ratner, Nanotechnology, 16, 5 (2005)
[2] S. Dag, O. Gulseren, S. Ciraci, and T. Yildirim, Appl. Phys. Lett. 83, 3180 (2003)
[3] A. Bachtold, P. Hadley, T. Nakanishi, and C. Dekker, Science, 294, 1317 (2001)
[4] V. Derycke, R. Martel, J. Appenzeller, and P. Avouris, Nano Lett. 1, 453 (2001)
[5] S. J. Wind, J. Appenzeller, R. Martel, V. Derycke, and P. Avouris, Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 3817
(2002)
[6] R. Saito, G. Dresselhaus and M. S. Dresselhaus, Physical Properties of Carbon Nanotubes,
Imperial Cpllege Press (1998)
[7] Supriyo Datta and Biswajit Das, Appl. Phys. Lett. 57, 665 (1990)
[8] B. W. Alphenaar, K. Tsukagoshi, H. Ago, Physica E, 6, 848 (2000)
10
