應用線上顧客產品認知程度與瀏覽行為於個人化商品推薦之研究
林清同 陳茂欽 蔡政儒
大葉大學資訊管理所
一、中文摘要
近年來由於網路的發達及網路使用人口大幅成
長，促使企業投資在網路行銷、電子商務的比重逐
漸增加。隨著網際網路的普及，使資料流通的速度
增快，社會大眾在資訊的傳遞與取得也愈容易，但
也產生了資訊過量的問題。當我們在搜尋引擎上打
上關鍵字搜尋時，結果往往都是非常龐大的相關資
料的連結，造成沒有其他工具的協助之下，使用者
想找到自己真正想要的資訊或產品是非常困難
的。為提供網路消費者在購買商品時，不用漫無目
標的尋找所需的商品與資訊。如何有效的利用使用
者瀏覽行為資料進行過濾探勘分析，並按照消費者
的個人偏好程度來做一對一的個人化產品行銷推
薦(Personalized product recommendation)，是
網路行銷經營策略的主要發展方向。
目前許多線上產品推薦系統，利用資料探勘技術挖
掘顧客特質和交易關聯性，作為商品推薦依據。但
資料探勘需龐大的歷史資料，才能準確的推薦；具
有相同背景的顧客不一定有相同的喜好。此外，顧
客對產品的瞭解程度與其瀏覽行為有密切相關。本
研究應用網路瀏覽者對產品認知程度與瀏覽當時
行為事項，建構網路瀏覽者產品偏好指數(Product
preference index of Web browser，PPIWB)，作
為當時瀏覽者個人化產品推薦依據。並以3G 手機
產品為例建構測試系統，以測試推薦產品準確性及
瀏覽者滿意度。同時透過網頁問卷收集權重值並分
批分析，再修正瀏覽行為項目之權重值，以期提昇
瀏覽者產品偏好指數之準確性。本研究將依據文獻
建構瀏覽者對產品認知程度量表，作為區別瀏覽者
對產品知識認知程度之用，及分析瀏覽者瀏覽行為
事項資料，如點擊商品的順序、停留瀏覽商品的時
間及重覆點選商品的次數，再以3G 手機產品為例
建構初期測試用原型系統(Prototype systems) ，
並實施初期實驗(300 人次)，收集分析瀏覽者對瀏
覽行為事項權重值，同時進行正式實驗測試(250 人
次)。本瀏覽當下個人化產品推薦技術，系應用
瀏覽者瀏覽當時行為及瀏覽者對產品認知程度所
建構。因此，可彌補傳統資料過濾探勘技術需龐大
的歷史資料才能準確的推薦的缺點；同時可精準掌
握並反應瀏覽者尋找所需的商品與資訊當時之心
裡狀況。因此，本研究之個人化產品推薦評估分析
技術可精準預測網路瀏覽者之產品偏好及有效推
薦。期望本研究之分析模式及系統，能作為購物網
站業者建構商品推薦系統之參考。
關鍵詞：個人化產品推薦；網路行銷；瀏覽者產品
偏好指數；網路瀏覽行為；產品認
知程度。
Abstract
E-commerce rapid growth has made both
companies and customers face a new situation.
Whereas companies are harder to survive due to more
and more competitions, the opportunity for customers
to choose among more and more products has
increased the burden of information processing before
they select which products meet their needs. A
personalized product recommendation is an enabling
mechanism to overcome information overload
occurred.
To date, a variety of recommendation techniques
has been developed and applied, such as collaborative
filtering, data mining approaches, content-based
prediction etc. Those techniques are used to determine
product recommendation or to select advertisements
for display to particular customers based on
demographics and the past buying behavior of
individual customers. A common feature of
established personalized recommendation systems is
the need for analysis over a large set of customer data,
or data for a large number of customers. Moreover,
even in the same group, customers may differ in their
preferences; it may not be effective to show the same
advertisements to all the customers satisfying some
conditions. Beside, the consumer’s knowledge about
the product will influence upon consumer’s shopping 
processes.
To overcome the shortages of above, this paper will
create a new personalized recommendation technique
based on a customer’s product preference index,
which consists of customer’s product knowledge and
immediately web usage behavior for product
categories. For evaluating the performance of the
methodology, a personalized product recommendation
prototype systems, which focus in selling high
technology product (such as 3G cell-phones) will be
developed to test the effectiveness of the personalized
product recommendation method. The performance
evaluation include: customer satisfaction error rate
and rate of fit with browser favor product. It hopes
that the achievement of this study can be used as
consultation for shopping web business to build
personalized product recommendation system.
Keyword: Personalized product recommendation
system; E-marketing; customer’s product preference
index; Browser behavior; Customer product
knowledge.
1. 前言
依據著名研究機構 Forrester Research(FIND，
2004)的研究認為，2009 年全美將有 77%的家庭會
經常性地接取網路，且會有 40%的家庭在線上進行
採購動作（如圖 1）。同時認為線上購物家庭的成長
可以分為二個階段，第一階段是 2004 年至 2007
年，這個階段新增的線上購物家庭成長相當有限，
圖 2 資料探勘的分類(Cooley et al.,1997)
在網路使用探勘的文獻中，有許多是利用記錄
檔案裡的一些資訊當成探勘來源(如網頁名稱、網頁
停留時間)，本研究綜合整理如表 1 所示。
表 1 網路探勘歷年相關文獻彙整
綜觀目前運用在推薦機制的核心技術，大致上
可區分為：內容導向式 Aleksander et al., 2003)和協
同過濾式(Chee et al., 2001)，以下將針對第兩種方法
進行相關的介紹與探討。
(1)內容導向式
有部份研究將此方式稱為原性特徵導向，其概
念主要源自於「資訊擷取」中的方法，主要著重於
項目的分析，藉由分析項目的屬性特徵後，依據使
用者的喜好檔案，分析其與項目間的相關性，進而
判斷並找出哪些項目可能是使用者所感興趣的，而
將其項目推薦給使用者。
(2)協同過濾式
Goldberg et al.(1992)於研究報告中首先提出，
協同過濾式一般又稱為社群過濾，為目前應用最廣
的推薦技術。此方法一開始必須先找出一群具有共
同興趣的使用者，形成社群，也就是在某些行為或
偏好上有相類似特性的成員之集合，透過分析社群
成員共通之興趣或偏好，來產生相關的關聯推薦。
協同過濾主要是利用群體的觀點來產生推薦項目
給特定的個人使用者，故強調的是一種人與人之間
的合作，藉由過去的歷史記錄，計算各使用者間偏
好行為的相似度，找出與自己偏好相接近的鄰近
者，並透過這些鄰近者所組成的鄰近群組之意見或
建議，來產生使用者之前未體驗過，卻有興趣的推
薦資 訊給特定的使用者做 為參考 (Sarwar et
al.,2000)。
3 網路使用者行為探勘分析模式
(1)瀏覽者行為權重值初期建構
為建立瀏覽行為各項目之初期權重值，本研究
先以網路問卷方式，將問卷置於網站上供使用者填
答，以取得各種不同程度產品知識程度的使用者，
認為那種瀏覽行為權重值較能符合自己對商品的
偏好度。將前測樣本的產品知識得分利用 K-mean
分群法，分為高、中、低產品知識程度共三群。計
算不同產品知識群對瀏覽行為各項權重的重視
度，做為瀏覽行為初期權重值。
(2)網路瀏覽者商品偏好指數
依據 Yuan(2002)的瀏覽者回饋方程，本研究定
義網路瀏覽者商品偏好指數（Product preference
index of Web browser ， PPIWB ） 。
PPIWB=RcWc+RtWt+RrWr。其中參數定義如下︰
Rc 為點擊商品細節順序的回饋行為
Rt 為停留商品細節時間的回饋行為
Rr 為重覆點選商品的回饋行為
Wc 為 Rc 的權重值
Wt 為 Rt 的權重值
Wr 為 Rr 的權重值
Wc、Wt、Wr 三項權重值，將以前測樣本建設
初始值，之後將根據系統使用者回饋資料進行自動
更新。Rc 的數值計算方式為(N-i+1)，N 為點擊商品
細節總數，i 為第幾個點擊的商品順序，加 1 為修
正值，此修正值使得數值不為零。例如消費者瀏覽
了七項商品如表 2 所示，其中 SHARP 903SH 為使
用者第3次瀏覽之商品，因此其回饋分數為 5(7-3+1)
分，而其回饋得分越高，代表使用者對其商品越感
興趣。其它各商品點擊順序得分計算如表 2 所示。
表 2 點擊商品細節順序的回饋行為計算範例
Rt 的分數計算式與 Rc 相同，所不同的是，i
為停留商品網頁時間長短順序，依據瀏覽者在網頁
商品停留時間長短不同順序，給予不同計分，其中
較長者給予較高的回饋得分。例如瀏覽者在表 3 中
SONY ERICSSON Z800I 商品網頁停留了 21 秒，在
格式化: 項目符號及編號
圖 5 停留商品時間演算法
圖 6 重覆點擊商品演算法
之後推薦模組根據瀏覽行為模組及配對模組
對瀏覽者行為預測，將 PPIWB 值較高前三項商品做
推薦，使用者較感興趣之商品。其演算法如圖 7 所
示。
圖 7 PPIWB 演算法
由上述主要模組建構之整個系統運作流程，如
圖 8 所示。
圖 8 系統運作之系統流程
使用者登入系統後，先填寫產品知識問卷，系
統會根據使用者對產品認知程度高低，選擇適合之
回饋方程權重值。在使用者選擇商品特徵，來進行
商品的查詢，並直接瀏覽商品資訊時，系統根據使
用者瀏覽行為，運用回饋方程分析出使用者較感興
趣的商品，做個人化商品推薦，並蒐集滿意度誤差
值，驗證系統準確度，及根據使用者回饋的瀏覽行
為權重值，自動修正回饋方程權重。萁順序畫面如
圖 9 至 13。並以滿意度誤差值來判斷本系統推薦效
能如表 6 所示。
圖 9 產品知識問卷
warehouse/online analytic processing framework
for web usage mining and business intelligence
reporting,” International Journal of Intelligent
Systems, 19, No. 7, 585-606, 2004.
20. Brucks & Merrie, “The Effects of Product Class 
Knowledge on Information Search Behavior,” 
Journal of Consumer Research 12, No.1, 1-15,
1985.
21. Sarwar, B., Karypis, G., Konstan, J., and Riedl,
J., “Analysis of Recommendation Algorithms for 
E-Commerce,” Proceedings of the ACM
E-Commerce 2000 Conference, 158-167, 2000.
22. Cho, Y. H., Kim, J. K. and Kim, S. H., “A 
personalized recommender system based on web
usage mining and decision tree induction,” 
Expert Systems with Applications 23, No. 3,
329-342, 2002
23. Ratchford, B.T., “The economics of consumer 
knowledge,” Journal of Consumer Research, 27,
No. 4, 397-411, 2001
24. Ghani, R. and Fano, A., ” Building
Recommender Systems using a Knowledge Base
of Product Semantics,” In Proceedings of the
Workshop on Recommendation and
Personalization in E-Commerce, at the 2nd Int’l 
Conf. on Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive
Web Based Systems, Malaga, Spain, 2002.
25. Zhang, W., Xu, B., Song, W., Yung, H. and Liu,
K., ”Data mining algorithms for web 
pre-fetching,” Web information Systems 
Engineering 2, 34-38, 2000
26. Yun, C. H. and Chen, M. S., ”Using patern-join
and purchase-combination for mining transaction
patterns in an electronic commerce
environment,” The 24th Annual International
Conference On Computer Software and
Applications, 99-104, 2000
27. Yuan, S. T., ”A personalized and integrative 
comparison-shopping engine and its
applications,” Decision Support Systems 34, No.
2, 139-156, 2002
28. Kitsuregawa, M., Shintani, T. and Pramudiono,
I., ”Web mining and its SQL based paralel 
execution,” Proceeding on Information
Technology for Virtual Enterprises 5, No.5,
128-134, 2001.
29. Hong, T. P., Lin, K. Y. and Wang, S.
L., ”Mining linguistic browsing paterns in the 
World Wide Web,” Accepted by International
Journal of Software Computing 6, No.5, 329-336,
2002.
30. Hsieh, C. C. and Chang, C. T., ”An enhanced 
transaction identification module on web usage
mining,” Asia Pacific Management, 241-252,
2001.
31. Park, C. W., Feick, L. and Mothersbaugh, D. L.,
“Consumer knowledge assessment-how product
experience and knowledge of brands,attributes,
and features afects what think we know.” 
Advances In Consumer Research, 19(3), 193-198,
1992.
32. Park, C. W., Mothersbaugh, D. L. and Feick, L.,
“Consumer Knowledge Assessment.”Journal of
Consumer Research, 21(6), 71-82, 1994.
33. Rao, A. R. and Monroe, K. B., “The moderating 
effect of prior knowledge on cue utilization in
product evaluations.”Journal of Consumer
Research, 15(2), 253-264, 1988.
34. Alba, J. W. and Hutchinson, J. W., “Dimensions 
of consumer expertise.” Journal of Consumer
Research, 13(3), 411-454, 1987.
35. Surprenant, C. F. and Solomon M. R..
“Predictability and Personalizationin the Service
Encounter.”Journal of Marketing, 51(2), 86-96,
1987.
36. Allen, C., Kania D. and Yaeckel, B., Internet
World Guide to One-To-One Web Marketing.
New York : John Wiley &Sons. 1998.
37. Colin, G., Harrison, A. and Caglayan, K., Agent
Sourcebook. New York: John Wiley & Sons,
1997.
38. Olaru, C. and Wehenkel, L., “Data 
Mining.”IEEE Computer Applications in Power,
12(3), 19-25, 1999.
39. Berry, M. and Linoff, G., Data Mining
Techniques for Marketing, Sales and Customer
Support, New York:John Wiley and Sons, 1997.
40. Chung H. M. and Gray P., “Special section: Data 
mining.”Journal of Management Information 
Systems, 16(1), 11-16, 1999.
41. Cooley, R., Mobasher, B. and Srivastava, J.,
“Web mining:information and patern discovery 
on the world wide web.”In Proceedings of
International Conference on Tools with Artificial
Intelligent. 558-567, 1997.
42. Myra S., “Web Usage Mining for Web Site 
Evaluation.” Communications of the ACM,
43(8), 127-134, 2000.
43. Chen, M. S., Park, J.S. and Yu, P.S., Efficient
data mining for pathtraversal paterns.”IEEE
Transaction on Knowledge and Data Engineering,
10(2), 209-221, (1998).
44. Yuan S. T., “A personalized and integrative 
comparison-shopping engine and its
applications.”Decision Support Systems, 34(2), 
139-156, 2002.
45. Han, J. and Kamber, M., Data Mining: Concepts
and Techniques. Morgan Kanfmann Publishers,
2001.
46. Chee, S. H. S., Han, J. and Wang, K., “RecTree: 
An Efficient Colaborative Filtering Method.” 
Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
表 Y04
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
96 年 12 月 15 日
報告人姓名 林清同 服務機構
及職稱
大葉大學資管系副教授
時間
會議
地點
96 年 12 月 2 至 12 月 5 日
新加坡
本會核定
補助文號
臺會綜二字字第 0960039069 號
會議
名稱
(中文) 2007 工業工程與工程管理國際會議
(英文) The IEEE International Conference on Industrial Engineering and
Engineering Management (IEEM 2007)
發表
論文
題目
(中文) 應用模糊邏輯於新產品創新研發組合選擇之研究
(英文) New product portfolio selection using fuzzy logic
附
件
三
表 Y04
此次由於國科會及本校經費的補助，使筆者得以參加此一重要的國際性研討會，能與來自世
界各地的工業工程、服務作業、運籌與資訊整合及管理研究學者專家交流溝通、互相切磋研
究心得，增進彼此對研究問題之瞭解，同時討論目前及未來的研究趨勢與重點，這種經歷對
筆者的未來學術研究有相當的意義。原先大會安排本人負責主持(Session Chair)一個埸次，
由於國科會及本校經費的補助有限，未能即時趕到主持，因此失去在國際性研討會知名度建
立的機會。
二、與會心得
此次研討會，筆者主要參與技術與知識管理、人因工程、電子化企業、工程經濟、設計
鏈管理、運籌與供應鏈管理等多埸次的論文發表外，除了兩篇論文發表外並參與兩埸專題演
講，以下就筆者參與兩埸專題演講簡要心得提報如下：
(一)、奈米技術發展缺乏奈米技術管理 (Nano development without naro management):
本主題是由 University of Tennessee 工學院長及傑出教授 Kuo Way 教授主講。Kuo Way
教授認對奈米生產技術的研究與發展是促世界經濟强力發的動力。同時有些分析者認為
奈米生產技術的研究與發展將帶來下一次的工業革命。但是在這面臨奈米技術挑戰的中
世代的年代，目前工業工程及工程管理學者實際從事有關奈米生產技術的研究與發展的
研究郤如此少數。所以造成缺乏奈米技術研究與管理原因，是由於奈米技術研究與管理
代表著多元主題(interdisciplinary subject)必須具備有新的物理知能(physics
phenomena)及統計專業，而這些技能目前工業工程師郤尚未具備。工業工程與工程管理
仍然死守其傳統效率策略，極少涉及奈米技術。因此 Kuo Way 教授從技術歷史整體觀
點及工業工程發展歷史分析，從中指出工業工程與工程管理對奈米生產技術的未來研究
與發展方向。
(二)、全球化生產對產業與作業管理的意涵(The globalization of
manufacturing-Implications for industries and operations):
本主題是由 Cambridge University UK 生產管理學院 Mike Gregory 教授主講。Gregory
教授認為買賣週期對中到大型之資訊科技與服務是個費時又耗錢。資訊科技與服務提
供者經常專注於功能與效能，然而他客戶郤專注於價值與對企業的影響。這種落差將
  
Abstract - Limited by the resources a company requires 
to strategically allocating resources in a set of new product 
projects. A portfolio management decision is usually made 
on the basis of product value, project risk and business 
strategies. Due to both the nature and timing of new product 
development, portfolio selection is associated with 
uncertainty and complexity, and conventional evaluation 
methods not can handle such decisions suitably and 
effectively. However, fuzzy logic is well suited for decision 
making with uncertainty. Thus, a method for portfolio 
selection decision using fuzzy logic is proposed. As an 
illustration, an IT new product portfolio selection in 
Taiwan’s company is cited to demonstrate the evaluation 
procedure can be used in new product portfolio.  
 
Keywords - New product portfolio management; New 
product selection; Fuzzy multi-criteria decision  
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Increasing technological innovations and new 
business practices, as well as increasing globally intense 
competition among markets, are forcing many firms to 
rely on accelerated new-product development (NPD) as a 
strategic source for long-term growth and sustainability. 
A new-product portfolio selection is a crucial and vital 
decision for successful new-product innovation. Thus, all 
companies that engage in NPD face an important problem 
of selecting a new-product portfolio for the future. 
However, portfolio decisions are difficult because of the 
combinatorial complexity of allocating a limited resource 
over a multiplicity of new products, since a vast amount 
of information is incomplete and selection criteria are 
interdependent and often conflict [1].  
  
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
The portfolio management decision problem is an 
important, even if it is complex, one. Thus, to assist 
managers in improving new-product portfolio selection, a 
wide variety of decision enhancing models have been 
devised over the years, which can be roughly grouped into 
three categories: strategic management approaches, 
benefits measurement methods, and mathematical 
programming approaches[2, 3].  
However, most of these techniques have both 
practical and theoretical limitations [4, 5]. The major 
obstacle is the amount of data required (Griffin, 1997): 
information on financial results, timing of resource-needs, 
and probabilities of completion are suspect. Furthermore, 
these mathematical portfolio approaches have historically 
provided inadequate treatment of risk and uncertainty. 
Such approach are unable to handle multiple and 
interrelated criteria [6]; they generally fail to recognize 
interrelationships with respect to the payoffs of combined 
utilization of resources [4, 6, 7]; they also address only 
some of the aforementioned issues. Finally, managers 
typically perceive such techniques to be too difficult to 
understand and use [4].  
 
III. FUZZY LOGIC APPLICATION 
Fuzzy set methods allow uncertain and imprecise 
systems of the real world to be captured through the use 
of linguistic terms so that computers can emulate human 
thought processes. Thus fuzzy logic is a very powerful 
tool that can deal with decisions involving complex, 
ambiguous and vague phenomena that can only be 
assessed by linguistic values rather than numerical terms. 
Fuzzy logic enables one to effectively and efficiently 
quantify imprecise information, perform reasoning 
processes and make decisions based on vague and 
incomplete data [8]. Roussel et al. [9] contend that the 
experts can manage the risk when it is know, but in 
uncertain situations when available information is scarce 
or unreliable or when target objectives and goals are not 
clearly defined, managers often react very poorly. Thus, 
fuzzy logic brings hope of incorporating qualitative 
factors into decision-making.  
Fuzzy logic is currently being used extensively in 
many industrial applications. Fuzzy logic has also been 
applied to managerial decision making as well. For 
example, it has been used in muliti-attribute decision-
making situations to select 3G licensing mechanisms in 
Taiwan [10], and to evaluate the firm innovation 
performance [11]. Since the fuzzy weighted average 
approach produces a more informative result, Lin and 
Chen [6] used this technique to devise a fuzzy-possible-
success-rating for a new product Go/No-Go decision.  
New product portfolio management is a complex and 
dynamic decision process. Managers must allocate a 
limited set of resources to projects in a manner that 
balances risk, reward, and alignment with their respective 
strategies which may have non-numerical values. 
Conventional "crisp" evaluation approaches can not 
handle such decisions suitably or effectively. Since fuzzy 
logic is a very powerful tool that can deal with decisions 
involving complex, ambiguous and vague phenomena that 
can only be assessed by linguistic values rather than 
numerical terms, on the basis of the concepts of multi-
criteria decision making and fuzzy logic, a fuzzy project 
attractiveness index (FPAI) was devised for new-product 
portfolio selection. The fuzzy-logic new-product portfolio 
selection model (FLNPPSM) which integrates business-
strategy fitness, product value and project risk into a 
flexible formulation can efficiently aid managers dealing 
with ambiguity and complexity in achieving relatively 
realistic and informative results in the portfolio selection 
process. 
 
New product portfolio selection using fuzzy logic  
 
Ching-Torng Lin
 
112 Shan-Jiau Rd., Da-Tsuen, Changhua, 51505, TAITAN 
 
 
 1141-4244-1529-2/07/$25.00 ©2007 IEEE
 four business groups passed the first evaluating-gate and 
became as the new-platform products candidate in 
November, 2003. For determining the most appropriate 
products and characteristics to be developed, BIT 
established a new-product portfolio selection committee 
composed of thirteen experts/senior-managers from 
business planning and global strategy, marketing, 
engineering/technology, the new business project office 
and finance, and consultants for business/product strategy, 
organized and led by the vice president of business 
planning and marketing.  
In order to collect the data that accurately reflected 
BIT’s strategy and selection process, the manager of 
business planning hold a briefing session to introduce the 
company’s new-product portfolio selection-concept 
model (see Fig. 2). On the basis of the company’s 
framework an evaluation of new-product portfolio 
selection was undertaken. The deliberations over how to 
evaluate the new product projects are summarized below: 
1) Collect and study project-related data. The nine 
new-platform product managers were asked to hold a 
briefing session to introduce the product concept 
development, market and technical data, as well as to 
present a cursory financial forecast. The key data in the 
debriefing included: product concept development, 
preliminary market data, technical data and business data. 
The CEO expressed a desire to pursue a method that 
takes into account the uncertainty of each factor yet 
maintained the nature of multiplicity to provide an overall 
picture of the attractiveness rating of the each new 
product project. Since the evaluators could easily 
differentiate between high, medium, and low rather than 
numerical values to measure ambiguous events. 
Furthermore, since linguistic variables contain ambiguity 
and a multiplicity of meanings and the information 
obtained can be expressed as a range in a fuzzy set instead 
of a single value in traditional methods, fuzzy logic was 
suggested to apply to this decision making context.  
 
2) Select criteria for scoring business-strategy fitness, 
product value, and project risk. On the basis of their own 
selection architecture and criteria, and referring to 
assessment factors proposed in new studies [14,15], the 
selection committee updated the selection architecture and 
criteria as shown in Table I.  
3) Define linguistic variables as well as associated 
membership functions for measuring the business-strategy 
fitness, product value, and project risk. For the sake of 
convenience, instead of eliciting linguistic terms and 
corresponding membership functions from the experts, 
some were obtained directly from past data and others 
were modified to incorporate BIT’s situation. All the 
linguistic variables and their associated membership 
functions are listed in Table II.  
 
 
TABLE I 
CRITERIA FOR NEW-PRODUCT PORTFOLIO SELECTION 
Major 
criteria 
Sub criteria  Element criteria  
Degree of fitting strategy for business goals (A11) Business- 
strategy fit 
(A1) 
Synergy with other product/business within 
company (A12) 
Proprietary position (A21) 
Strategy 
fit (A)  
Strategic 
leverage (A2)  Platform for growth (A22) 
Correspondence with desired entry timing needed 
by target segments (B11) 
Unique or special functions to meet and/or 
special features to attract target segments (B12) 
Competitive 
marketing 
advantages 
(B1) 
Conformity to salesforce, channels of distribution 
and logistical strengths (B13) 
Size of markets (B21) 
Long-term potential of markets (B22) 
Market 
attractiveness 
(B2) 
Growth rates of markets (B23) 
Allows company to use very best suppliers (B31) 
Degree of fitting R&D skills/resources (B32) 
Technological 
suitability (B3) 
Degree of fitting engineering/design 
skills/resources (B33) 
Magnitude of effect for customers (B41) 
New products meet customer needs (B42) 
New- 
product 
value 
(B) 
Potential for 
gaining 
product 
advantage (B4) New product differentiated from competitive 
products (B43) 
Lack of resource commitment (C11) 
Lack of implementation capability (C12) 
Organizational 
risk (C1)  
Organizational and/or financial impact (C13) 
Technical gap (C21) 
Program complexity (C22) 
Technical 
uncertainty 
risk (C2) 
Project time frame (C23) 
Market competitiveness (C31) 
New- 
product 
develop
ment 
risk (C) 
Competitive 
risk (C3) 
Magnitude of defense from competitors (C32) 
 
TABLE II 
LINGUISTIC VARIABLES AND THEIR CORRESPONDING FUZZY 
NUMBERS 
Performance rate Risk possibility Importance weight 
Linguistic 
variables 
Fuzzy number Linguistic 
variables 
Fuzzy 
number 
Linguistic 
variables 
Fuzzy 
number 
Worst  
(W) 
(0, 0, 0.2) Low 
(L) 
(0, 0, 0.2) Very Low 
(VL) 
(0, 0, 0.2) 
Very poor 
(VP) 
(0, 0.2, 0.4 Fairly Low
(FL) 
(0, 0.2, 0.4 Low 
(L) 
(0, 0.2, 0.4 
Poor 
(P) 
0.2, 0.35, 0.5 Medium 
(M) 
0.2, 0.35, 0.5 Fairly 
Low 
(FL) 
0.2, 0.35, 0.5 
Fairly 
(F) 
(0.3, 0.5, 0.7) Fairly 
High 
(FH) 
(0.3, 0.5, 0.7) Fairly 
(F) 
(0.3, 0.5, 0.7) 
Good 
(G) 
(0.5, 0.65, 0.8 High 
(H) 
(0.5, 0.65, 0.8 Fairly 
High 
(FH) 
(0.5, 0.65, 0.8 
Very 
Good 
(VG) 
(0.6, 0.8, 1.0) Very High 
(VH) 
(0.6, 0.8, 1.0) High 
(H) 
(0.6, 0.8, 1.0) 
Excellent 
(E) 
(0.8, 1.0, 1.0) Extremely 
High (EH) 
(0.8, 1.0, 1.0) Very 
High 
(VH) 
(0.8, 1.0, 1.0) 
 116
Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE IEEM
