achieve the same signal to noise ratio (SNR) at the 
destination node. We model this MPBBA problem as an 
optimization problem and propose optimization based 
heuristic algorithm based on Lagrangean relaxation. 
MPBBA is a cross-layer (layer 1 + layer 2 + layer 3) 
problem that requires sophisticated cross-layer 
design algorithm. This cross-layer design algorithm 
includes bandwidth-aware transmission in the physical 
layer； radio and channel assignment in the MAC layer 
and cooperative routing and power control in the 
network layer. Via this project, we believe we could 
not only achieve better understanding on how to 
tradeoff between satisfying users’ bandwidth 
requirements and minimizing the system energy 
consumption via cooperative communication but also 
design intelligent cross-layer algorithm to tackle 
the MPBBA problem in wireless networks. 
英文關鍵詞： bandwidth QoS, minimum power multicast, cooperative 
routing, wireless networks, Lagrangean relaxation 
 
 2
could not only achieve better understanding 
on how to tradeoff between satisfying users’ 
bandwidth requirements and minimizing the 
system energy consumption via cooperative 
communication but also design intelligent 
cross-layer algorithm to tackle the MPBBA 
problem in wireless networks. 
 
Keywords: bandwidth QoS, minimum 
power multicast, cooperative routing, 
wireless networks, Lagrangean relaxation. 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
在以電池為趨動之無線網路環境中，
節能是維繫網路功能之重要關鍵，而傳輸
功率控制是決定電力消耗之重要因素。由
於無線電波的廣播效應，位於傳送節點傳
輸半徑內之所有節點均會收到資料，這樣
的特性可以用來減少廣播(broadcast)或群
播(multicast)傳輸時之電量，這種特性又稱
為 Wireless Multicast Advantage (WMA)，
Fig. 1 展示了 WMA 之例子，在此例子中，
節點 A 是傳送端，當傳輸距離達到節點 E
時，目的節點 B 及 C 也因在傳送範圍內而
能收到資料，而且電力之消耗只算到節點 E
的部份，如此總傳送成本為 c1+c5+c6，然
而 在 有 線 網 路 下 總 成 本 為  c1+c2+ 
c3+c4+c5+c6 。由於 WMA 的關係，使得
無線網路上之路由與有線網路有相當程度
之不同。 
有許多研究在探討如何利用 WMA 之
特性在無線網路上設計節能之廣播及群播
路由(routing)演算法，這種 Minimum total 
Power in Broadcasting /multicasting routing 
problem (簡稱為 MPB problem) 已被證實
為是一個 NP-hard problem [1] 而且有相當
多的研究提出 polynomial time 演算法 
[2][3]可以找到近似最佳解。然而這些研究
只考慮接收端必須包含在傳送半徑內，而
沒有考慮到訊號品質，使得用戶端之頻寬
需求並不能被滿足。 
在無線網路中，有效頻寬取決於訊號
品質，例如在 IEEE 802.11b 下，在不同的
訊號品質下，其有效頻寬分別為 1, 2, 5.5 
and 11 Mbps，一般來說，傳送端與接收端
之距離越短，訊號品質會越好，因此可以
採用更加有效的調變技術(e.g., QAM-64)，
如此可以得到更高的 data throughput；另一
方面，傳送端與接收端之距離越長，訊號
品質會越差，而導致接收端無法正確地接
收，因此只能採用更一般的調變技術(e.g., 
QPSK)，如此 data throughput 會遠小於前者
而導致用戶端之頻寬需求無法被滿足。這
種具有頻寬感知的 MPB 問題稱之為 MPB 
with Bandwidth-Aware problem (簡稱為
MPBBA)，MPBBA 之問題會迥異於 MPB
問題，Fig. 2 展示了一個例子。 
在 Fig. 2，虛線代表傳輸半徑而實線則
代表 bandwidth-aware 傳輸半徑(i.e., 滿足
用戶端頻寬需求之傳輸半徑 ) ，由於
bandwidth-aware 傳輸半徑小於傳輸半徑，
因此在 bandwidth-aware傳輸半徑之訊號品
質 會 優 於 在 傳 輸 半 徑 內 而 不 在
bandwidth-aware 傳輸半徑內之區域，因而
傳送端可以用較有效的調變技術來傳送資
料給 bandwidth-aware，而傳送端必須用較
無效的調變技術來傳送資料給傳輸半徑內
但不在 bandwidth-aware 傳輸半徑內之節
點，我們假設 bandwidth-aware 傳輸半徑內
可以用 QAM-16 modulation technique，而
傳輸半徑內但不在 bandwidth-aware傳輸半
徑 內 只 可 以 用 QPSK modulation 
technique，由於是用 QAM-16 及 QPSK，
傳輸半徑內但不在 bandwidth-aware傳輸半
徑內頻寬只有傳輸半徑內的一半，而且當
 4
電力耗損。另一個可能的解決方法是利
用不同的 channels 來傳輸以避免
collision。 
4. Radio and Channel assignment: 如果
節點具有多個 radios而且有多個不互相
干擾之 channels 可以使用，則在多路徑
傳輸下，我們可以利用 channels 及
radios 的資源來進行同一時間的資料傳
輸，以避免節點 operate 在 idle mode 所
造成的能源耗損，例如 Fig. 2(b)如果有
兩個 non-overlapping channels 而且每個
節點均有兩個 radios，node B and node C
利用不同的 channel 來傳輸資料給 node 
E，而 node E 則可利用兩個 radios 來同
時間接收。 
 
根據上面的四項研究議題 MPBBA 
是一個 cross-layer design problem，其包含
Physical layer 之  bandwidth-aware 
transmission；MAC layer 之 radio and 
channel assignment 及 Network layer 之 
cooperative routing and power control。就
後學所知，尚未有任何的文獻探討此
MPBBA 問題，本研究計劃提出 cross-layer 
total solution for the MPBBA 問題，我們在
有限網路的資源(Channel, Radio)的下找到
最節能的合作路由及功率控制方式以滿足
群播用戶端之頻寬需求。 
 
三、結果與討論 
合作路由路徑有三種不同的連線，分
別是點對點連線(point-to-point link)、點對
多點連線(point-to-multipoint link)及多點對
點連線(multipoint-to-point link)，Fig. 3 展
示了合作通訊的例子。在 point-to-point 
link，只有一個傳送節點及接收節點(e.g., 
link A→B)；在 point-to-multipoint link，有
一個傳送節點及多個接收節點(e.g., links 
B→C and B→D)，由於 WMA property，node 
B 之能量消耗為 max{∏(dBC), ∏(dBD)}，其
中∏(dBC)代表傳送半徑為 dBC 之能量消
耗；在 multipoint-to-point link，有多個傳送
節點及一個接收節點(e.g., links C→E and 
D→E). 
接下來一個有趣的問題是利用合作通
訊之 multipoint-to-point link 成本如何估
算。令 LC(S, T) 代表從在 S= {s1, s2,….sn}
所有節點合作傳送資料給 T={t1}.之總成
本，Khandani [4]利用接收端之訊噪比
(signal to noise ratio, SNR) 必 須 超 過
minimum threshold SNRmin 的特性來導出
LC(S, T) 之最小成本，當 S= {s1}時，亦即
在 point-to-point communication 其 link cost
為 
Π(s1) = LC(s1, t1)=  2min
PSNR   (1)
其中 P  代表 noise power； 2 代表
power attenuation，其值正比於 s1 and t1 之
間距離平方的倒數，由於只有一個
transmitter，所以 LC(s1, t1)就是 s1 所需要
的傳輸能量(i.e., Π(s1))。 
當 S= {s1, s2,….sn}時，其最小的合作路
由連線成本 LC(S, T)為 
LC(S, t1)= 
  
n
i
i
PSNR1 min
2
1
1

  =  
n
i i ts1 1,LC
1
1
 (2) 
 
根據 Equation (2)，在 Fig. 3 從 nodes C 
and D 合作傳送給 node E 之 cooperative 
link 為 
LC(S, E)= 
   EDEC ,LC
1
,LC
1
1

  (3) 
where S= {C, D}. 
 
而 node C 所需之 power 為 
Π(C) =  
       EDECEDEC
EC
,LC
1
,LC
1
1
,LC
1
,LC
1
,LC
1



 (4) 
 
如果 LC(C, E) = LC(D, E)，我們可以得
到 LC(S, E)=  
2
,LC EC ，換而言之，利用合
作通訊，對於 node E 要求相同的 SNR 的情
況下，我們可以節省一半的傳輸 power，而
且 Π(C) =  
4
,LC EC  and Π(D) =  
4
,LC ED ，這
代表著 node C 與 node D 只需要傳送原來
1/4 的電量即可在 node E 得到相同的 SNR。 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-128-001 
計畫名稱 植基於無線網路之整合性頻寬及節能感知合作群播路由 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
顏宏旭 
世新大學資訊管理學系(所), 副教授 
會議時間地點 2011 年 8 月23~26日, 加拿大維多利亞市 
會議名稱 2011 IEEE Pacific Rim Conference on Communications, Computers and Signal Processing (PACRIM) 
發表論文題目 
1. Power-aware, Bandwidth-aware and Video-quality-aware Cooperative 
Routing algorithm for 3D video transmission in Wireless Networks 
2. Energy-aware Image Aggregation in Wireless Visual Sensor Networks 
 
一、參加會議經過 
PACRIM 是全球網路通訊學界及業界中之重要活動，每兩年在加拿大維多利亞大學
舉辦一次，今年吸引來自 20 個國家的投稿，最後只接受一百六十篇的論文，這些接受的
論文主要來自於網路通訊、電腦及訊號處理等三大領域。雖然這是一個小型的學術會議，
但是與會的論文及口頭報告均有相當不錯的品質，是一個小而美的國際學術會議。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
2011 年 PACRIM 研討會在網路通訊 track 上包含目前相當重要之領域(Wireless 
Communications & Networking、Coding, Modulation & Spread Spectrum、OFDM, 
Multicarrier & MIMO Systems 、 Cooperative & Collaborative Systems 、 Channel 
Measurement & Modeling、Cognitive Radio、Resource & Mobility Management、
Network Architecture & Protocols、Communication & Networking Testbeds、Cross-layer 
Design、Green Communications、Security and Cryptography)。 
本次發表兩篇論文“Power-aware, Bandwidth-aware and Video-quality-aware Cooperative 
Routing algorithm for 3D video transmission in Wireless Networks”及” Energy-aware Image 
Aggregation in Wireless Visual Sensor Networks”，第一篇論文是探討在無線網路上傳輸3D
視訊的問題，第二篇論文是探討在無線感測網路上影像彙集節能路由問題，由於這兩篇
論文所討論之議題在文獻上甚為少見，引起許多學者之興趣，除了與許多國外之學者有
深入之討論外，與會之專家也給與對本次發表之論文寶貴建議，後學有相當大的收穫。
除此之外，在會議中也認識日本國立大板大學前副校長西尾章治郎教授(Prof. Shojiro 
Nishio)，在與前西尾副校長聊天的過程中，除了對這兩篇論文交換意見外，西尾副校長
相當讚許後學的paper presentation能力，這對於求學過程均在台灣的後學而言是一大肯
定。 
 
 
 
question, does the total transmission power in the wireless 
network could be reduced by using this traffic bifurcation 
cooperative scheme? Before answering this question, we need 
to consider the wireless Multicast Advantage (WMA) and 
signal quality transmission in wireless networks. 
Due to the broadcast nature in wireless transmission, 
neighbor nodes that are within the range of a sender’s 
transmission radius can receive the transmitted data. In [1], this 
property is known as WMA. WMA can be used to reduce the 
total power consumption in multicasting and broadcasting 
wireless applications. Such cost reduction property is very 
different from the wired line communications. Fig. 1(a) depicts 
an example of the WMA. In this example, Node A is the sender 
node. As the transmission power is large enough to reach Node 
E. Nodes B, C and D are also covered.  
The Minimum total Power in Broadcasting/multicasting 
routing problem (denoted as the MPB problem) in wireless 
networks has been shown to be an NP-hard problem [2] and 
heuristics [1][3][4] has been proposed to get the near-optimal 
solutions. However, these MPB heuristics only consider the 
transmission power coverage but without addressing the signal 
quality might fail to meet the bandwidth demands of the 3D 
video applications.  
In wireless networks, the effective bandwidth depends on the 
signal quality. For example, in IEEE 802.11b, the effective 
bandwidth could be 1, 2, 5.5 and 11 Mbps [5], which depends 
on the signal quality of the receiver. In general, when the 
transmission power at the transmitter is fixed, the shorter the 
distance between the transmitter and the receiver, the better the 
signal quality there would be, and more sophisticated 
modulating scheme (e.g., 64 QAM) could be used to achieve 
higher data throughput. On the other hand, in the case of long 
distance between transmitter and receiver, the signal quality is 
poor so that only ordinary modulating scheme (e.g., QPSK) 
could be used. In this case, the transmitter might need to 
transmit the degraded 3D video to make sure the receiver could 
successfully decode the signal.  
In Fig. 1, we illustrate an example on the tradeoff between 
video quality and transmission power. First, we assume that the 
frequency spectrum for transmission at nodes A, B, and C is 
1MHz, 500KHz and 500KHz. The data rate requirement for the 
720p and 480i 2D video are 2Mbps and 1Mbps. Then, by using 
the left-eye-right-eye fixed-view encoding for 3D video, the 
data rate for 720p and 480i 3D video are 4Mbps and 2Mbps. In 
Figure 1(a), since nodes B, C and D are all covered within node 
A’s 16 QAM transmission coverage (TC), if node A transmits 
the 720p 3D video with 16 QAM modulation scheme, then 
nodes C and D could decode the 720p 3D video. However, 
node E is not able to decode the 720p 3D video because it is not 
within node A’s 16 QAM TC. One possible way is instead of 
sending the 720p 3D video, the node A transmit the 480i 3D 
video. In this case, every node could get enough SNR to decode 
the 480i 3D video. Hence, without increasing the transmission 
power of any node, degrading the video quality is an alternative 
choice to successfully playback the 3D video at all destination 
nodes. 
The other alternative is to use the cooperative 
communication scheme. In Fig. 1 (b), node A transmits the 
720p 3D video and nodes B and C could successfully decode 
the 3D vide. Then, node B transmits the left-eye view and node 
C transmits the right-eye view to node E. Because the available 
frequency spectrum for nodes B and C is only 500KHz. Nodes 
B and C could each contributes half of the video to Node E (i.e., 
500KHz ×  4bits/Hz = 2Mbps). Then, these two 2D video 
streams could be combined to the 720p 3D video at node E. 
With this cooperative communication scheme, all the 
destination nodes could get the 720p 3D video, but the price is 
that there is extra energy consumption at nodes B and C. 
Taking advantage of the nature of multi-view display of the 
3D video, transmitting each view on one routing path and then 
combined at the destination node by using the cooperative 
communication scheme could alleviate the problem of limited 
frequency spectrum in wireless networks. This Power-Aware, 
Bandwidth-Aware and Video-Quality-Aware 3D video 
transmission (denoted as the PABAVQA) problem in wireless 
networks is totally different from traditional MPB problem that 
only considers the transmission power coverage. PABAVQA 
needs to devise sophisticated power control and routing 
algorithms to meet the bandwidth and video quality demands of 
the 3D video in power efficient ways. 
In order to tackle the PABAVQA problem, several issues 
need to be addressed at the same time.  
(1) Video quality selection: The video quality is determined 
by the available frequency spectrum and the modulation 
scheme. Due to the frequency spectrum is limited, using 
sophisticated modulation scheme is a good way to increase 
the video quality at the receivers. Sophisticated modulation 
scheme requires better signal quality than ordinary 
modulation scheme. Hence, the transmitter uses the 
sophisticated modulation scheme could cover fewer 
receivers than the transmitter uses the ordinary modulation 
scheme under the same transmission power. In other words, 
video quality selection at the transmitter must consider the 
tradeoff between available frequency spectrum and signal 
quality at the receiver. 
(2) SNR-aware power control: Nodes within transmitter’s 
transmission power coverage does not guarantee that the 
received SNR is good enough to decode the video. Instead 
471
 
 
The notations used in the formulation are listed as follows. 
Input values: 
 N: the set of nodes; 
G: the set of destination nodes; 
Rn: the discrete set of candidate transmission radius for node n; 
Z: a very large positive value; 
ρ : the minimum SNR to successfully decode the received 
data; 
nR : the largest transmission radius in set Rn; 
( )nrΠ  : transmission power for node n with transmission radius 
rn; ( )nmn dr ,Ψ : the received SNR at node m, when node n with 
transmission radius rn transmits data to node m that is 
distance dnm away from node n; 
V:  be the set of the video views; { }3,2,1= , where video type 1 
(left view) and video type 2 (right view) could be combined 
to get the type 3 full 3D video; 
vΓ : the minimum bandwidth requirement (in bps) to 
successfully playing the video type Vv ∈ . In addition, 
213 Γ+Γ=Γ ; 
Bn: the set of possible acquired bandwidth for node n, { }321 ,,,0 ΓΓΓ= ; 
nf :  the available frequency spectrum (in Hz) at node n; 
M:  the modulation rate (in bps/Hz); 
Decision variables: 
nvβ : =1 if the node n gets the video data type Vv ∈ ; = 0, 
otherwise; 
rn: transmission radius assignment at node n; 
nmvα : =1 if the node n transmit the video data type Vv∈  to 
node m; = 0, otherwise; 
nb : the acquired bandwidth (in bps) at node n; 
Problem (P):     
 ZP= ( )∑ ∈ ΠNn nr  min   (1) 
Subject to:   
( )nmnnmv dr ,Ψ≤×αρ  VvnmNnm ∈≠∈∀ ,,, (2) 
nvnmvmv βαβ ×≤  VvnmNnm ∈≠∈∀ ,,, (3) 
Mfnvnmv ×≤Γ×α  VvnmNnm ∈≠∈∀ ,,, (4) 
2132 nnn βββ +≤  Nn ∈∀  (5) 
2211 Γ×+Γ×≤ nnnb ββ  Nn ∈∀  (6) 
mb≤Γ+Γ 21  Gm ∈∀  (7) 
∑
∈
×≤
Vv
nvnn Rr β  Nn∈∀  (8) 
nn Rr ∈  Nn∈∀  (9) 
1or0=nmvα  VvnmNnm ∈≠∈∀ ,,, (10)
1or0=nvβ  VvNn ∈∈∀ ,  (11)
nn Bb ∈  Nn∈∀ . (12)
The objective function is to minimize the total transmission 
power. Constraint (2) enforces that if node n transmits video 
data type v to the node m, then the received SNR at the node m 
must be larger than the minimum threshold ρ  to successfully 
decode the data. Constraint (3) enforces that receiver m 
receives video data type v from sender n only when sender n has 
video data type v and receiver m is within sender n’s 
SNR-aware transmission radius. Constraint (4) is the frequency 
spectrum resource constraint. If node m gets the data type t 
from transmitter n, then the transmitter n must have enough 
available frequency spectrum to give the bandwidth tΓ  at node 
m. Constraint (5) makes sure that if any node n gets full 3D 
video data, then it must also have the other two video data that 
compose the full 3D video. Hence, if 13 =nβ , then 
121 == nn ββ . In conjunction with Constraint (3), these two 
constraints specify that a transmitter n with the full 3D video 
can transmit partial video data to the other node m (e.g., node C 
to node E in Figure 2(b)). Constraint (6) calculates the 
aggregate bandwidth nb  of node n from the other nodes. 
Because of Constraint (5), the right hand side of Constraint (18) 
does not need to add the 33 Γ×nβ . Constraint (7) enforces that 
the bandwidth requirement should be satisfied at the destination 
node. In Constraint (8), it enforces that if any node n does not 
acquire any video data, it cannot turn on its radio to transmit 
data. Constraints (9)~(12) define the feasible region of the 
decision variables. 
Constraint (3), (5) and (6) jointly realize the idea of the 
cooperative communication scheme (i.e., many-to-one 
communication) where the aggregated bandwidth at node m is 
contributed from the other nodes Nn∈  where mn ≠ .  
Problem (P) is an NP-Complete problem because minimum 
energy cooperative routing problem is proven to be 
NP-Complete problem [10] and PABAVQA problem is a 
special case of problem (P) when the bandwidth constraint is 
relaxed. In the sequel, the novel heuristic is proposed to tackle 
the problem (P). 
 
IV. SOLUTION APPROACH – IBAIP ALGORITHM 
I propose the novel heuristic algorithm, named as IBAIP, to 
tackle this PABAVQA problem. The IBAIP name comes from 
the IBA/IPower performance metric at the step 2 in the 
algorithm. The basic idea of IBAIP is choose a node to expand 
its transmission power so as to have the largest ratio of the 
increased video bandwidth to the increased power. The process 
is repeated until the video requirement for the destination nodes 
is satisfied or could not get the feasible solution because every 
potential node has turned to its maximum transmission power. 
 
IBAIP Algorithm 
Begin 
Perform shortest path algorithm to identify routing path 
for every destination node;  
If (bandwidth constraint and frequency spectrum resource 
constraint are all satisfied) 
Report feasible solutions; 
Else 
Begin // step 2, adjusting procedure 
473
 
 
transmission power will be saturated to an upper value 
especially in better video quality transmission (i.e., 1080i). 
This is because most of the nodes in the network are 
transmitted at the maximum power so that the destination 
nodes could meet the SNR requirements.  
3. Cooperative scheme performs better than the 
non-cooperative scheme: Because of the multi-view 
encoding nature of the 3D video stream, transmitting each 
view on different path could alleviate the problem of limited 
frequency spectrum in wireless networks. This makes 
cooperative algorithms (i.e., IBAIP and Co2D) performs 
better than the non-cooperative algorithm (i.e., LGR).  
4. IBAIP outperforms the other algorithms, especially in good 
video quality transmission: From Fig. 2 to Fig. 4, we 
observe that the solution quality of IBAIP is the best, 
especially in good video quality transmission (i.e., 1080p). 
This is because of the IBA/IPower performance metric, it 
makes IBAIP algorithm could determine the bifurcation, 
routing and power control decision more intelligently to 
meet the bandwidth and SNR requirements of the 3D video 
in more energy efficient way. 
 
VI. CONCLUSIONS 
The power efficient routing scheme for the 3D video stream 
is challenging because it needs to meet the bandwidth demands 
of the 3D video in wireless networks with limited frequency 
spectrum. In this paper, we propose the mathematical 
formulation to capture the power-aware and 
frequency-spectrum aware multi-view encoding 3D video 
transmission problem. We propose the IBAIP algorithm that 
can intelligently determine the modulation scheme, power 
control, bifurcation, and routing decision based on the 
IBA/IPower performance metric. From the computational 
experiments, we observe that the IBAIP algorithm is superior to 
the non-cooperative scheme (LGR) and cooperative scheme 
(Co2D) under all tested cases, especially in good video quality 
transmission. 
REFERENCES 
[1] J. E. Wieselthier, G. D. Nguyen and A. Ephremides, “On the Construction 
of Energy-Efficient Broadcast and Multicast Trees in Wireless 
Networks,” in Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, pp. 585–594, 2000. 
[2] W. Liang, “Constructing Minimum-Energy Broadcast Trees in Wireless 
Ad Hoc Networks,” in Proc. ACM MobiHoc, pp. 112–122, 2002. 
[3] P.-J. Wan, G. Călinescu, X.-Y. Li, and O. Frieder, “Minimum-Energy 
Broadcast Routing in Static Ad Hoc Wireless Networks,” in Proc. IEEE 
INFOCOM, pp. 1162–1171, 2001. 
[4] P. Mavinkurve, H.Q. Ngo and H. Mensa. MIP3S: Algorithms for 
Power-conserving Multicasting in Wireless Ad Hoc Networks. Proc. of 
the IEEE International Conference on Networks (ICON), pp. 143–148, 
2003. 
[5] Y. Xiao, J. Rosdahl, “Throughput and Delay Limits of IEEE 802.11”, 
IEEE Communications Letters, Vol. 6, No. 8, pp. 355-357, Aug. 2002. 
[6] A. Goldsmith, “Wireless Communications”, Cambridge University Press, 
pp. 214-216, 2005. 
[7] A. K. Das, R. J. Marks, M. El-Sharkawi, P. Arabshahi, and A. Gray, 
“Minimum Power Broadcast Trees for Wireless Networks: Integer 
Programming Formulations,” Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM, 1001–1010, 
2003. 
[8] A.E. Khandani, E. Modiano, J. Abounadi, L. Zheng, “Cooperative 
Routing in Wireless Networks”, book chapter in Advances in Pervasive 
Computing and Network, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2004. 
[9] F. Li, K. Wu, A. Lippman, “Minimum Energy Cooperative Path Routing 
in All-Wireless Networks: NP-Completeness and Heuristic Algorithm”, 
Journal of Communications and Networks, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 1-9, Jun. 
2008. 
[10] J. Zhang, Q. Zhang, “Cooperative Routing in Static Wireless Networks”, 
Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM, pp. 2369-2377, Apr. 2008. 
[11] WiMax Forum, http://www.wimaxforum.org. 
[12] http://www.wimaxforum.org/technology/downloads/WiMAXNLOSgene
ralversionaug04.pdf 
[13] P. Grønsund, P.E. Engelstad, T. Johnsen, T. Skeie, “The Physical 
Performance and Path Loss in a Fixed WiMAX Deployment”, Proc. of 
the International Conference on Wireless Communications and Mobile 
Computing, pp. 439-444, 2007. 
[14] R. K. Ahuja, T. L. Magnanti, and J. B. Orlin, Networks Flows: Theory, 
Algorithms, and Applications. Prentice Hall, 1993. 
[15] G. B. Akar, et. al, “Transport Methods in 3DTV—A Survey”, IEEE Trans. 
Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 17, no. 11, pp. 1622--1630, Nov. 
2007. 
[16] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YouTube. 
[17] H. Li, et. al, “On Supporting High-Quality 3D Multicasting over IEEE 
802.11 Wireless Networks”, IEEE Trans. Computer, vol. 58, no. 5, pp. 
1-14, May, 2009. 
[18] H.H. Yen, S.S.W. Lee and F.G.H. Yap, “A novel optimization-based 
bandwidth-aware minimum power multicast routing algorithm in green 
wireless networks”, Journal of Supercomputing, 2011, to appear, DOI: 
10.1007/s11227-011-0629-x.
  
 
475
 
 
In Figure 2, we show the comparison between data 
aggregation and image aggregation. In Figure 2(a), the average 
temperature is sent to the sink node. After Node A receives two 
temperature values, it will first compute the average value (i.e., 
30) and then send it the sink node. With this data aggregation, 
Node A only needs to send one copy instead of two copies of 
the temperature value, which could save the energy 
consumption at Node A. In Figure 2(b), the image captured at 
Node B and Node C are sent back to sink node. At Node A, it 
has two choices, one is to send these two images to the sink 
node and the other one is to combine the two images and then 
send it to the sink node. In the first approach, Node A needs to 
transmit two images. In the second approach, Node A needs to 
perform image processing to combine the two images and send 
the combined one to the sink node. As compared to computing 
the averaged temperature value in Figure 2(a), image 
processing is much more computational intensive. Hence, the 
node processing power consumption is non-negligible for 
performing the image processing. In other words, what is the 
most power efficient scheme for node A depends on the tradeoff 
between power saving from transmitting smaller image size 
and extra power consumption from performing image 
processing task. In the following, we will derive the power 
consumption model for the image aggregation scheme to have 
better understanding this tradeoff.  
 
 
 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In 
Section II, we do the literature survey on the VSN and image 
aggregation. In Section III, a mathematical formulation of the 
power consumption model for the image aggregation in VSN. 
In Section IV, simulation results are reported. Finally, Section 
V concludes this paper.  
 
II. LITERATURE SURVEY 
Thanks to the advance of CMOS technology, low power 
camera could be equipped on sensor nodes. Instead of only 
probing and sensing the scalar data, sensor nodes equipped with 
CMOS camera could collect visual data from the environment. 
As compared to the WSN, VSN opens a new sensing function 
and application era. With this visual data capturing capability, 
VSN could provide much more information on the monitored 
environment that makes VSN a promising solution on security 
surveillance, environment monitoring and wildlife observation. 
In VSN, like WSN, most of the sensor nodes are driven by the 
battery and it is difficult to replace or replenish the battery for 
the sensor nodes. Energy saving transmission has been a hot 
research issue in WSN and a lot of research works have 
proposed energy saving algorithms and solutions [2] in WSN. 
However, these traditional energy saving schemes in WSN are 
not applicable to the VSN due to the particular sensing 
operations and large captured data size in VSN. Energy 
efficient transmission strategies in VSN need to address two 
inter-discipline (WSN and Image processing) domains 
simultaneously. 
From the image processing perspective, image compression 
(e.g., JPEG or JPEG 2000 [5]) has been a popular method to 
reduce the image size so as to reduce the transmission power. In 
[11], they develop an energy consumption model for each stage 
of the JPEG scheme, which can be used to evaluate the JPEG 
energy dissipation in VSN. Besides image compression, recent 
works proposed the distributed source coding scheme by the 
neighboring sensor nodes to deal with the overlapping FoV 
problem [6]. By using the distributed source coding scheme on 
the data source sensor nodes with overlapping FoV, the 
overlapped region of the image could be transmitted only once 
to save the transmission power. The distributed source coding 
scheme requires synchronization between the data source node 
(encoders) so that the sink node (decoder) could use the 
time-correlated information to decode the received packets 
[7][8].  
From the WSN perspective, data aggregation routing has 
been an active research topic and lots of works have proposed 
573
 
 
( ( ))CBCBA FoVFoVFoVFoV ∪,+Φ +
( )( )CBAA FoVFoVr ∪,Ψ ( )CBAA FoVFoVr +Ψ≤ ,  (5) 
We next generalize Equation (5) to consider m transmitters 
in Figure 3. 
 
In Figure 3, the size of total received images is ∑
=
m
i
iFoV
1
 
and the size of transmitted aggregated image is ( )mFoVFoVFoV ∪∪∪ ...21 . Then the image processing power 
for Node A is ⎜⎜⎝
⎛
Φ ∑
=
m
i
iA FoV
1
, ( ))mFoVFoVFoV ∪∪∪ ...21 . The 
transmission power for Node A is ( )( )mAA FoVFoVFoVr ∪∪∪ ..., 21Ψ . Let TA denote the power 
consumption for Node A in the image aggregation scheme, 
TA = ⎜⎜⎝
⎛
Φ ∑
=
m
i
iA FoV
1
, ( ))mFoVFoVFoV ∪∪∪ ...21  
+ ( )( )mAA FoVFoVFoVr ∪∪∪ ..., 21Ψ  (6) 
If Node A does not perform image aggregation at Figure 3, 
then the image processing power for Node A is zero and the 
transmission power for Node A is ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
Ψ ∑
=
m
i
iAA FoVr
1
, . Let AT  
denotes the power consumption for Node A without the image 
aggregation scheme, 
AT  = ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
Ψ ∑
=
m
i
iAA FoVr
1
,  (7) 
Image aggregation scheme is more energy efficient than the 
non-image aggregation scheme only when 
( )⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
Φ ∑
=
m
m
i
iA FoVFoVFoVFoV ∪∪∪ ..., 21
1
+
( )( )mAA FoVFoVr ∪∪ ..., 1Ψ  ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
Ψ≤ ∑
=
m
i
iAA FoVr
1
,  (8) 
Based on Equation (8), image aggregation scheme is a 
better choice only when the gain from transmitting smaller 
aggregated image is greater than the extra energy consumption 
from performing image processing. 
 
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS 
We assume that a sensor network operates in event-driven 
mode. When there is an event, the image sensor nodes that 
could capture the images of the event (i.e., the images nodes 
whose FoV cover the event) become the data source nodes and 
send the images back to the sink node. In order to get the real 
power consumption for image processing and transmission in 
VSN, we use the incremental charge drawn on the board of the 
Meerkats nodes [3] as shown in Table 1. The voltage for the 
battery used in Meerkats node is 7.4Volt. Because the 
energy consumption is equal to the charge drawn times the 
battery voltage, therefore, the third column of Table 1 is 
equal to the second column of Table 1 multiply by the 
Meerkats battery voltage (i.e., 7.4 Volt). 
In Figure 4, we show the energy consumption comparison 
with respect to the degree of aggregation. The AggregationX 
means that X% of the image size captured by the data source 
nodes is the same and could be aggregated to be transmitted to 
the sink node in one copy. Hence, the other (100−X)% of the 
image captured by each data source node is different and should 
be transmitted to the sink node individually. In Figure 4, there 
are two important observations.  
1. Aggregation lowers the energy consumption: We can 
observe that as the percentage of same image increased, 
aggregation scheme could keep lowering the energy 
consumption. In Figure 4, Aggregation5 scheme consumes 
the largest energy and Aggregation100 consumes the least 
energy. This is because in the Aggregation100, the image 
captured by each data source node is the same so that only 
one copy of the image is transmitted to the sink node.  
2. Non-aggregation scheme consumes more energy after the 
portion of the same image is more than 10%: In Figure 4, we 
could observe that Aggregation5 scheme consumes more 
575
 
 
sensor networks,  Proc. of the IEEE International Conference on Virtual 
Environments, Human-Computer Interfaces, and Measurement Systems 
(VECIMS ), 2005, 61–66. 
[11] Mammeri, A.; Khoumsi, A.; Ziou, D.∅ Hadjou, B. Modeling and 
Adapting JPEG to the energy requirements of VSN, Proc. of Computer 
Communications and Networks (ICCCN) , 2008, pp. 1-6. 
 
577
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：顏宏旭 計畫編號：99-2221-E-128-001- 
計畫名稱：植基於無線網路之整合性頻寬及節能感知合作群播路由 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 40%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
