  
replication scheme (H2-VIP), which can efficiently 
deal with the frequent online/offline behavior of users 
at the cost of a small amount of storage space.  
The rest of this report is organized as follows. 
Section 2 provides an overview of the recent 
development of P2P video streaming and the current 
replication approach. Section 3 describes our proposed 
scheme, H2-VIP (Home-to-Home Video clIp 
rePlication). Section 4 presents the performance 
evaluation results of the proposed scheme. Finally, 
Section 5 concludes this report.  
2. Related Work 
Over the past few years, many studies discuss 
how to deliver video streams using P2P networking to 
largely reduce the cost of client-server architecture or 
CDN-based architecture. Well-known examples of P2P 
on-demand streaming include P2Cast [5] and P2VoD 
[6]. A major challenge for P2P streaming is the frequent 
online/offline behavior of peers. Recently, 
Ghandeharizadeh et al.[3], discussed the issue of 
providing P2P on-demand video streaming over mesh 
network. They solved the problem of the long 
multi-hop delay caused by delivering video clips 
between peers (or home devices). They proposed a data 
placement and replication scheme, called H2O, to 
minimize the total storage space required for three 
typical network topologies, linear, grid, and graph, as 
shown in Fig. 2.  
 
Fig. 2 Three topologies of H2O 
3. H2-VIP System Design 
This section details the proposed H2-VIP scheme, 
which can largely increase the reliability of the 
home-to-home multimedia-on-demand system at the 
cost of a small amount of extra storage space. H2-VIP 
also takes into account the popularity of videos because 
the popularity of videos determines the number of peers 
accessing the videos. H2-VIP is based on H2O. Section 
3.1 describes the system model and introduces the 
notation used in this report. Section 3.2 explains the 
rationale of H2-VIP. 
3.1. Video Clip Replication Model  
The main procedure of H2-VIP is similar to that of 
H2O. The main difference between the two schemes is 
twofold. First, in H2O, each video clip is treated 
equally. In H2-VIP, the popularity of different videos is 
taken into account. Second, H2-VIP computes a 
different value for the number of replicas of each video 
clip. In H2-VIP, the following steps are carried out:  
1. Each video clip, , 1j vV j N≤ ≤ , is divided into bN  
equal-sized blocks of size bS . 
2. The first block of each video, 
1, ,  1j vb j N≤ ≤  is 
stored on all nodes.  
3. For each block 
,
,  1i jb i ≠ , computes its delay 
tolerance 
,
,  1i j vH j N≤ ≤ , where ( )
,
1
i j
i D
H
h
− 
= 
 
.   
4. According to 
,i jH , computes ,i jr , the number of 
replicas of block bi.  
5. Compute 
,i jr
∗
, the extra number of replicas of 
video block 
,
,  1i j vb j N≤ ≤ , according to the video 
access probability ,  1j vP j N≤ ≤ , and the total extra 
storage space, α , allocated to improve the system 
reliability. 
6. Finally, all blocks are scattered over all peers (or 
home devices) according to
,
,  1i j vH j N≤ ≤ .   
We use Zipf distribution [4] to model the video 
probability distribution. The popularity of video j is 
computed as follows, where s is the skew parameter.   
Table 1. Notation Table  
pN  Number of devices 
vN  Number of video clips  
vS  Size of a video (MB) 
bS  Size of a block (MB) 
bN  Number of block  
h  Time to retrieve a block that is one-hop away 
D  Display time of a block 
,i jr  the based number of copies of a block bi 
,i jH  Number of copies of a block ,i jb   
α  the total extra-storage in the network 
,i jr
∗
 
the needed extra-replicate for the block bi of the 
video vj 
jP  The popularity of video vj  (Zip f distribution) 
β  The joined or left rate of a peer 
  
a. Linear traversal topology 
 
 
b. Grid topology 
 
 
c. Graph topology 
 
The peer stored bi,j 
The peer not stored bi,j 
 
  
 
Fig. 5 Graph model: the failure rate versus the video 
rank 
 
Fig. 6 Linear model: the failure rate versus the 
extra-storage rate 
 
Fig. 7 Grid model: the failure rate versus the 
extra-storage rate 
 
Fig. 8 Graph model: the failure rate versus the 
extra-storage rate 
To decrease the failure probability of fetching 
requested blocks, we use extra replicas to increase the 
number of block 
,i jb  within ,i jH . In Fig. 6-8, we 
observe that we only allocate an extra 50% of the space 
required by H20 as the extra space, and in the event we 
will reduce the failure rate to below 0.07 and provide a 
stable video quality. 
5. Conclusion 
In this report, we discuss the design of a 
home-to-home multimedia-on-demand system over 
wireless-mesh community network. Previous studies 
have solved the long delay problem for accessing video 
blocks caused by multi-hop relay. However, the peer 
join/leave problem is not addressed. In this report, we 
develop a novel replication scheme, called H2-VIP, 
which can minimize the system failure rate by 
allocating a small amount of extra space. The main 
merit of H2-VIP is that it can compute the optimal 
number of replicas of video blocks such that the overall 
system failure rate can be minimized subject to a 
limited storage space. We have conducted a series of 
simulations. Our simulation results show that the 
failure rate in the network can be significantly reduced 
by H2-VIP. Also, the simulation results validate the 
analytic model of H2-VIP.  
6. References 
[1] I.F. Akyildiz and X. Wang, “A survey on wireless mesh 
networks”, IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 43, 
no. 9, Sept. 2005, pp. 23-30. 
[2] Self-Organizing Neighborhood Wireless Mesh 
Network list. http://research.microsoft.com/mesh/. 
[3] S. Ghandeharizadeh, B. Krishnamachari, and S. Song, 
“Placement of Continuous Media in Wireless 
Peer-to-Peer Networks”, IEEE Transactions on 
Multimedia, vol. 6, no. 2, April 2004, pp.335-342.  
[4] L. Breslau, C. Pei, F. Li et al., “Web caching and 
Zipf-like distribution: evidence and implications,” in 
Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM, Apr. 1999, pp. 
126-134. 
[5] Y. Guo, K. Suh, J. Kurose et al., “P2Cast: peer-to-peer 
patching scheme for VoD service”, in Proceedings of 
the 12th international conference on World Wide Web, 
May. 2003, pp. 301-309. 
[6] T. T. Do, K. A. Hua, and M. A. Tantaoui, “P2VoD: 
providing fault tolerant video-on-demand streaming in 
peer-to-peer environment”, IEEE International 
Conference on Communications, June 2004, pp. 
1467-1472. 
 
