2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
具可合併特性的電子廣告傳單中廣告配置問題之最佳化 
Optimization of Advertisement Allocation Problem for Electronic Direct Mail  
with Mergeable Publishing Slots 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-274 -006  
執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日 至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：何漢彰  吳鳳技術學院 應用數位媒體系暨研究所 
 
中文摘要 
  廣告傳單一直是廣告商傳遞商品或是活
動資訊的方法之一，由於可以直接將資訊送
到讀者手上，所以對於資訊傳播的進度可以
有效的掌握與事先評估。廣告傳單若以網際
網路發送(例如電子郵件或廣告網頁)，讀者
的閱讀順序則是配置廣告刊登的關鍵。同於
網頁瀏覽，電子廣告傳單對於每個可刊登區
塊會因讀者瀏覽習慣的順序而造成不同的
資訊宣傳效益。因此適當的配置電子廣告傳
單，可以提升整體的廣告收益。若依照瀏覽
順序將所有可刊登區塊排序，那麼該問題會
與關鍵字拍賣或是贊助商搜尋拍賣問題類
似。設計與配置廣告傳單上的各個可刊登區
塊，對於廣告提供者是一大挑戰。當這些刊
登區塊能夠與其鄰居相互合併，進而產生一
個較大的區塊時；對於廣告提供者勢必能產
生更多的利益收入，而廣告商也能透過更明
顯的刊登方式以更有效率的途徑傳播資訊。
在本計畫中，我們以配置廣告於具有可合併
特性之刊登區塊為研究目標，設計解決方案
以尋找電子廣告傳單配置的最大整體收益。
本研究的相關成果已經投稿於國際期刊。 
關鍵詞：電子廣告傳單、贊助商搜尋
拍賣問題、傳單配置問題、網頁元件配置的
權重、關鍵字拍賣。 
 
 
Abstract 
Direct Mail (DM) is an efficiency way 
for publishing or announcing some 
information. Advertisers can predict the 
degree and progress of the information 
propagation based on the feedback of readers 
during delivering the DMs to them. When 
DMs are sent over internet, such as emails or 
web pages, reader’s habit about browse order 
is a key factor of allocating advertisements for 
the auctioneer. The advertisement which is 
allocated in the more important position will 
help the information delivery. Therefore the 
weight of each publishing slot will affect the 
expect sale volume indirectly. After sorting 
the publishing slots by their browse priorities, 
the advertisement allocation problems are 
similar to the keyword auctions or the 
sponsored search auctions. Both of these 
problems deal with matching the publishing 
slots with advertisements. Consider a situation 
that once some neighbor publishing slots can 
merge to a larger one, the advertisement 
allocation problem becomes more complex. 
Because the auctioneer would think over 
which size of publishing slot should be 
allocated to the advertisement. Allocating 
advertisement on the suitable size and position 
can not only help advertiser to highlight its 
advertisement but also benefit the auctioneer’s 
4 
compatible pricing mechanism [2]. To achieve 
truth telling, Aggarwal et al. presents the 
Laddered Auction [3]. The Laddered Auction 
is also a truth telling mechanism, and at brings 
in more total revenue than the VCG. 
Budget is another issue for advertisers, 
who may have a limit on how much they 
spend on advertising per day. Feldman et al. 
presents that adjusting the ranking mechanism 
will improve the total revenue of the search 
engine [10]. But some factors are still 
unknown. For example, the estimates of the 
used keywords can become unreliable; 
Mahdian et al. suggests some solutions to this 
problem [12]. Lahaie and Pennock analyze 
how ranking functions affect the revenue [11]. 
Many issues are still unaccounted for, such as 
changes in consumer behavior over an 
extended period of time. 
三、研究目的 
Though AdWords is a smart solution for 
selling advertisements, spam folders continue 
to be filled. Evidently, EDM is the most 
popular advertising method. Most users do not 
appreciate the advertisements and filter them 
into spam folders. But many companies are 
now collecting and analyzing shopping 
behaviors directly from their customers. They 
have a better knowledge of what the 
customers are interested in. Many companies 
record each transaction through their member 
systems. Based on these records, companies 
have a better idea of what types of 
merchandise a particular customer prefers. 
When sales occur for these types of 
merchandise, the company will then send an 
advertisement to this customer. Figure 2 
shows an example of EDM received from a 
bookstore. The department store only sends 
small amounts of information, pre-filtering 
any irrelevant details. Therefore, each 
customer receives precise and useful 
information potentially can increase sales. 
 
Fig. 2. An electronic direct mail. 
The greatest advantage of the Internet is 
that information and advertising can be 
published for public access. However, what 
consumers pay attention to online should be 
considered. Once a company notifies its 
customers of certain information through 
EDM, it does not simply publish the 
information. Consumer behavior is a critical 
factor. According to the suggestion made by 
Google, most users have a specific reason to 
browse a web page. As Fig. 3 shows, the 
colors of blocks from deep to light represent 
their priorities from weight to light. For 
example, many online shoppers focus first on 
the primary content, which is usually in the 
center of the ad. This is where the marketers 
write what they consider most important to 
communicate with the consumers. Then most 
users examine the rest of the advertisement. 
The hyper links or related information is 
6 
some prices for different advertising slots. We 
need to allocate each advertisement to an 
advertising slot for maximizing total revenue, 
as shown in Fig. 4. 
 
Fig. 4. The concept of Direct Mail Allocation problem. 
Since each advertisement only can be 
put on exact one slot, and vice versa, we have 
formulated the FAA problem as an integer 
linear program (ILP). For most small-size 
slots, we can solve the ILP directly by CPLEX 
to produce an optimal solution in a few 
seconds or minutes. However, it is 
computationally infeasible to use ILP to solve 
the optimal solution for a large number of 
slots. We reduce the FAA problem to a 
Maximum Weighted Bipartite Matching 
problem [7]. Therefore, some polynomial 
algorithms such as [8], [9] had been proposed 
to solve it in polynomial time. 
 
Fig. 5. The weighted bipartite graph of an FAA problem. 
(2) VAA problem 
In real world, the direct mail is not as 
simple as above mention. Consider a situation 
for example. If some advertiser wants to stand 
out its advertisement, we have no idea to 
highlight its advertisement in the FAA 
problem without any art skill. The size of 
advertising slot is a good characteristic to 
reflect this requirement. We take into account 
the variable size of each advertising slot in 
this section. Each division line can be put on 
different position to build a new EDM page. 
Since the size of the direct mail is fixed, if the 
size of a advertising slot is increasing, some 
slots’ must be decreasing. The objective of the 
publisher is to determine the positions of all 
division lines for maximizing price of each 
advertisement. Once we decide the disposition 
of all division lines, the Hungarian method is 
proceeded to evaluate the revenue of the 
setting. The process is called an “evaluate 
time.” The publisher does not want to fine a 
best disposition by exhaustive search. We 
develop a greedy solution applied the 
equilibrium concept to calculate the position 
of each division line. According to the 
8 
[2] A. Mehta, A. Saberi, U. Vazirani, and V. Vazirani, 
Adwords and generalized on-line matching, Foundation of 
Computer Science (FOCS), pp. 264-273, 2005. 
[3] G. Aggarwal, A. Goel, and R. Motwani, Truthful Auctions 
for Pricing Search Keywords, Proceedings of the 7th ACM 
conference on Electronic commerce, pp. 1-7, 2006. 
[4] J. F. Nash, Equilibrium Points in n-Person, Proceedings of 
the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of 
America, Vol. 36, pp. 48-49, 1950. 
[5] M. J. Osborne, An Introduction to Game Theory, Oxford 
University Press, 2004. 
[6] N. Nisan, T. Roughgarden, E. Tardos, and V. V. Vazirani, 
Algorithmic Game Theory, Cambridge University Press, 
2007. 
[7] T. H. Cormen, C. E. Leiserson, R. L. Rivest, and C. Stein, 
Introduction to Algorithms (Second Edition), MIT Press and 
McGraw-Hill, 2001. 
[8] H. W. Kuhn, The hungarian method for the assignment 
problem, Naval Research Logistic Quarterly, 2:83-97, 1955. 
[9] J. Munkres, Algorithms for the assignment and 
transportation problems, Journal of the Society of Industrial 
and Applied Mathematics, 5(1):32-38, 1957. 
[10] J. Feldman, S. Muthukrishnan, M. P’al, and C. Stein, 
Budget Optimization in Search-Based Advertising Auctions, 
Proceedings of the 8th ACM conference on Electronic 
commerce, pp. 40 - 49, 2007. 
[11] S. Lahaie, and David M. Pennock, Revenue analysis of a 
family of ranking rules for keyword auctions, Proceedings of 
the 8th ACM conference on Electronic commerce, pp. 50 - 56, 
2007. 
[12] M. Mahdian, H. Nazerzadeh, and A. Saberi, Allocating 
online advertisement space with unreliable estimates, 
Proceedings of the 8th ACM conference on Electronic 
commerce, pp. 288 - 294, 2007. 
[13] Y. Zhou, and R. Lukose, Vindictive Bidding in Keyword 
Auctions, Proceedings of the ninth international conference 
on Electronic commerce, pp. 141 - 146, 2007. 
[14] A. Galstyan, S. Kolar, and K. Lerman, Resource 
allocation games with changing resource capacities, 
Proceedings of the second international joint conference on 
Autonomous agents and multiagent systems, pp. 145 - 152, 
2003. 
[15] S. Suarez and B. Lopez, Reverse Combinatorial Auctions 
for Resource Allocation in the Rescue Scenario, International 
Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling, pp. 62 - 
55, 2006. 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：何漢彰 計畫編號：98-2221-E-274-006- 
計畫名稱：具可合併特性的電子廣告傳單中廣告配置問題之最佳化 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
