 2
Requirement Development process area in CMMI Level 3 
on workflow applications. Our model elaborates 
requirements of the workflow application [6] from 
identifying the organization structure, business process, 
interactive relationship of activities, and related data 
according to the practices of RD process area in CMMI 
Level3. Developing requirements obeys the 
recommendable requirement development processes 
provided in CMMI. Our model follows the order of these 
processes to provide corresponding operators (e.g., 
questionnaire and template) as well as to get the expected 
products, which fulfill the goals then.  
The report is structured as follows: In Section2, we 
present a short survey on the requirement development of 
workflow application and related researches of CMMI. In 
Section 3, 4, 5 and 6, we present our model which is 
defined as a set of questionnaires and templates executed 
on the recommended process provided from CMMI 
Level3. In these sections, we also use a purchase 
workflow application to illustrate the method provided. 
Then, summarizing what goals of RD process area in 
CMMI Level3 are realized with our model in Section 7. 
Conclusion of our work are given in Section 8.  
2. RELATED WORKS 
2.1 CMMI and Related Researches 
 
The first version of Capability Maturity Model (CMM) 
[2] was released in 1991. The CMM has evolved to 
CMMI [3], which enables the continual growth and 
expansion of the CMM concept to multiple disciplines, 
such as system engineering, software engineering, 
integrated product and process development, and supplier 
sourcing. 
Requirement Development (RD) Process Area (PA) is 
concerned necessarily in Level 3 of Capability Maturity 
Model Integration (CMMI) [4][5]. In RD-PA3 (RD-PA in 
Level 3), there are several goals to be achieved. RD-PA3 
has three types of requirements: customer, product, and 
product-component requirements. These requirements 
address the needs of relevant stakeholders, project 
attributes and constrains for design decision. Above goals 
are implemented by practices that not only cover the 
products, but also consider their generation processes and 
limitations from stakeholders. There is a method [7] 
creating a meta-model which represents the relationships 
among elements such as organization policy, restricted 
resources, and functional requirements. The design of the 
meta-model is emphasized on requirement management 
and elicitation traceability, but disregarded other 
influence factors. This model does not cover the whole 
improvement essentials of RD-PA3, so we provided a 
model which could further the organization maturity to 
RD-PA3.  
 
2.2 The workflow application analysis 
 
Traditional software requirement analysis methods, 
such as object-oriented, data-centered, and functional 
analysis are mainly concerned with developing generic 
software requirements and specifications that express a 
system’s objects, data, and functions. These methods are 
weak to elicit the requirements of business process-
centered software [8].  
During the workflow application analysis, the 
developers collect requirements according the 
composition of workflow application. A workflow 
application consists of a network of activities associated 
corresponding participants to generate related data. The 
set of linked activities realises a business objective. The 
participants of a workflow application could be an 
application or a person. There are some necessary tasks 
for developing a workflow application which are the 
identification of roles and related capabilities, recognition 
of business process, configuration of activities of business 
process, and data interaction mechanism.  
3. THE MODEL 
Our model elaborates requirements of workflow 
application from identifying organization structure, 
business process, the interactive relationship of activities 
of processes, and related data according to the practices of 
RD process area in CMMI Level3. The model realizes the 
requirements specification by questionnaires and 
templates. The replies of questionnaires and the instances 
of templates can be used to construct the work products of 
RD-PA3.The recommended process shown in Figure 1 
has three stages which are development customer 
requirements, development product and product-
component requirements, and analysis and validation 
requirements. 
In development customer requirement stage, 
developers elicit customer needs with the questionnaire 
designed with high level concepts (e.g., goal, need, 
expectation, operation, and constrain). The replies got 
from the questionnaire are used to roughly identify the 
components in the application (e.g., the number of 
business processes, applications, and relevant data). Our 
model depends on the information to select the major 
stakeholders.  
In development product requirement stage, our model 
designed for translating the high-level goals specified in 
domain specific language into detailed software functions 
with the operational concepts, characters of targeted 
software (workflow application) and domain knowledge. 
There are some iterative tasks to develop functional 
requirements of workflow application: (1) identifying the 
organizational structure; (2) analyzing the legacy system 
integrated; (3) identifying the business process; (4) 
identifying the elements of workflow relevant data set; (5) 
identifying the atomic activities of business process; and 
(6) establishing the network of activities and their 
relationships. The products generated from these tasks are 
maintained with Customer Requirement Derivation 
Model (CRDvM). When there is an acceptable change 
 4
Table 2: customer requirements elicited from original 
needs 
Module Name Purchase Module Date 8.3.06
Module ID M00001 Designer Chris 
Workflow platform  Agentflow 2.1 Version 1.1 
Module Description 
Fetch the data of orders from ERP purchase system, and then 
instantiate an approval workflow. After the approval, the new 
application updates the related data of original database.  
The number of workflows 2 
Description 
1. A workflow of periodical checking of purchase order  
2. Approval workflow  
The number of e-forms 2 
Description 
1. Purchase order  
2. the hard copy of purchase order with pdf format 
The number of applications 1 
Description 
1. Inquiry order application 
Others: System Architecture 
 
4.2 Stakeholder selection  
The stakeholders influence the life cycle of 
requirements. One of the difficulties in requirements 
development is extracting useful stakeholder(s). For a 
workflow project, base on our experience in [9], size of 
project, consuming effort, and status of candidates 
(stakeholders) might be the most significant criteria. Our 
model classifies stakeholders into developers, supporters 
(e.g., project manager, salesman, and domain expert), 
customers and end users. Using questionnaires (be shown 
as Table 3 and 4) to elicit the stakeholder candidates who 
satisfy the conditions, and then make a selection of 
candidates based on their current status such as busy or 
idle. 
Table 3: the questionnaire for selecting developers 
 Developers 
The Past 
Development 
Experience 
(a) Who expertized the software skill 
successfully?  
(b) Who deployed successfully workflow 
application on the software/hardware 
platform?  
Domain 
Knowledge 
 
Who has successful experience on developing 
workflow application in a specific domain?  
The Size of 
Project 
Who ever successfully developed a project of 
similar size? 
Time 
Consumption  
Who ever successfully accomplished the tasks 
assigned? 
Table 4: the questionnaire for selecting the supporters 
 Supporter 
The Past 
Development 
Experience 
Which project manager has a successful experience 
on managing the project based on the environment 
shown in Table 1?  
Domain 
Knowledge 
 
(a) Is there any domain expert in our company? 
(b) Which salesman has successful experience on 
handling the customer service of this domain? 
The Size of 
Project 
Which project manager has a successful experience 
on managing the project of the similar size?  
Time 
Consumption 
Which project manager has a successful experience 
on managing a project with the time similar to the 
new one?  
The interaction behaviour, between end user and 
targeted application, should be considered together with 
customer requirements.  
5. PRODUCT REQUIREMENTS 
DEVELOPMENT  
Customer requirements are analyzed in conjunction 
with the development of operational concepts, characters 
of targeted software (workflow application) and domain 
knowledge to derive the set of more precise requirements 
called “product and product-component requirements.”  
This stage addresses the workflow domain concepts 
implied in customer requirements. There are some 
essential tasks which support product-component 
requirements development: (1) identifying the business 
process; (2) identifying the organizational structure; (3) 
analyzing the legacy system(s); (4) identifying the 
elements of workflow relevant data set; (5) clarifying the 
atomic activities of business process; and (6) establishing 
the network of activities and their relationships.  
 
Figure 3 Process Definition Model [6] 
5.1 Identifying the Business Process 
The automation of a business process can execute 
based on a process definition, which identifies various 
process activities, procedural rules and associated control 
data used to manage the workflow during process 
enactment, etc. Before defining a business process, our 
model addresses the essential data, including the process 
initiator, participant dispatch, and accomplishment time of 
a process, timing control, periodical initiation, and 
relevant data set (form) to clarify the identification. Table 
5 shows the detailed identification information of the 
process for periodical checking of the purchase order.  
Table 5: the identification of purchase order workflow 
periodical checking   
Module Name A workflow of periodical checking of purchase order 
Module ID Wf000001 
Date 8.3.06 Version 1.0 
Designer Christina Platform Agentflow2.1 
Description 
The workflow application checks the data of purchase order and 
preserves the check records. 
Process Initiator  System automated execution 
Participant Dispatch  Random dispatch one candidate  
 6
5.5 Identifying the Atomic Activities of Business 
Process 
An activity is a piece of work that forms one logical 
step within a process. An activity may be a manual 
activity or a workflow automated activity. A workflow 
activity requires human and/or machines resource(s) to 
support execution. 
The execution of an activity passes whole or part of 
the elements of relevant data set from one participant to 
another according a set of rules.  
The pre- and post-conditions are used by workflow 
management system to determine the state transitions of a 
workflow instance. The design of our model concerns 
above factors of a workflow activity, including the 
supportive resource, relevant data set, pre- and post-
conditions, pre- and post-actions of workflow 
management system, to identify an atomic activity. The 
identification of each atomic activity should include the 
factors shown in Table 6.  
Elaborating the identification of an activity is driven 
by the factors shown in Table 6 and refinement of user 
scenarios that describes how the end-user interacts with 
the system. All atomic activities of purchase workflow are 
shown in Figure 6 that includes checking the purchase 
order, determining the approval level, approving by direct 
boss, manager, general manager, or chairman, and 
notifying the purchasing agent. 
Table 6: detailed identification of an atomic activity 
Activity Name Checking the purchase order 
Activity ID At000001 
Date 8.3.06 Version 1.0 
Designer Christina Platform Agentflow2.1 
The workflow activity 
participant 
All members of financial department 
(purchasing agent) 
Other agents  No 
Computer automated execution No 
Multiple approval  No 
Description  
The purchasing agent checks the data of the purchase order.  
Enable elements of the form (is 
shown in Figure 5) 
Attached file, confirmation of 
purchasing agent, the comment of 
purchasing agent 
Disable elements of the form 
(be shown in Figure 5) 
Purchase information, the comment 
of directed boss, approval of 
manager, general manager, and 
chairman, purchase agreement. 
Visible elements of the form All  
Invisible elements of the form  No  
Pre-conditions of the activity There is a purchase order in ERP 
system not approved yet.  
Post-conditions of the activity The approval result should be stored 
into the ERP system. 
Pre-actions of the workflow 
management system 
 
Taking out all global variables from 
ERP purchase system and setting 
these variables to approval form of 
the approval workflow application.  
Post-actions of the workflow 
management system 
Updating the related data of ERP 
legacy system when the order is 
approved.  
In checking order activity, shown in Table 6, the 
workflow management system sets the information to the 
approval form obtained from legacy system. All elements 
of the approval form are visible to purchasing agents, but 
approval segments are disabled in this activity. When 
there is a purchase order in ERP system not approved yet, 
the activity can be initialized. After checking the order, 
the approval results will be written back to ERP system.  
 
5.6 Establishing the network of activities  
A workflow process represents as a co-ordinated 
(parallel and/or serial) set of activities that are connected 
by routing pattern to achieve a common goal. There are 
four basic routing patterns in workflow system: sequential, 
parallel, selective and iterative routings.  
The network is composed of realistic activity nodes 
and supported with control nodes such as AND-split, 
AND-join, OR-split and OR join. Figure 6 shows the 
network of approval workflow.  
In the example case, the first activity of approval 
workflow is that the purchasing agent checks the purchase 
order. If the order is correct, the approval form is 
submitted to direct boss, else the approval procedure is 
cancelled immediately. The next activity is selected 
according to the outcome of the checking result, so using 
OR-split control node links the checking activity to next 
activities. The boss approval triggers the activity that sets 
the approval degree according to the procedural rules (be 
shown in Table 7). The rules decide the number of levels 
of a sequential approval sub-process. The OR-split control 
node links the approval degree activity with these possible 
sub-processes. The sub-processes merged are shown in 
Figure 6, because the activities composed these sub-
processes represent repeatedly. If all assigned managers 
agree the order, the system notifies the purchasing agent. 
Checking the 
purchase order
Determining the 
approval level
Approving  by 
direct boss 
Approving by 
manager
Approving by 
general manager
Notifying the 
purchasing agent
Approving by 
chairman
Purchase order (confirm)
Purchase order 
(direct boss approve)
Purchase order (boss approval)
Purchase order 
(manager approve)
Purchase order 
(general manager approve)
Purchase order 
(chairman approve)
Purchase order 
 (boss disapproval)
Purchase order 
(manager disapproval)
Purchase order 
(general manager 
Disapproval)
Purchase order 
(chairman disapproval)
Purchase order (manager approval)
Purchase order (general manager approval)
Purchase order (chairman approval)
Purchase order (purchasing agent verification)
Purchase order
(cancel)
Figure 6 the network of purchase workflow 
Table 7: the approval procedural rules 
 
 8
 
Figure 9 the relationship between requirements of 
workflow application 
Table 9: the change request evaluation 
 
7. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK  
Although there are many researches and commercial 
tools tried to solve the problems of developing software 
requirements, they can not give a total solution still. 
Based on the past experience of workflow application 
development, we tried to propose a model established 
upon the recommended process provided in RD-PA3 and 
the development processes associated with this model 
might cause them to satisfy CMMI 3. Our model 
elaborates the requirements of workflow application from 
the rough customer requirements to explicit product 
requirements. The model utilizes the questionnaires and 
templates provided to develop software requirement step 
by step. There are some successful projects [9] developed 
with the model. 
 
Table 10: summary the achievement of the model 
provided 
Here, we summarize the corresponding mechanism(s) 
in our model which attempts to achieve the goals of RD-
PA3 on developing the requirements of a workflow 
application.  
The future work of this research is to extend this 
model to achieve the goals “Analyze and Validate 
Requirement” in RD-PA3, and implement a CASE tool to 
support the validation procedure. Besides, experiments 
with more real cases measure the capability of the model 
and make the refinement if necessary while applied to. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] R. Darimont, A. Lamsweerde, “Formal Refinement Patterns 
for Goal-Driven Requirement Elaboration,” Proc. 4th ACM 
Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, pp. 
179-190, Oct., 1996. 
[2] M.Paulk et al., “Key Practices of Capability Maturity Model 
for Software,” Version 1.1, Technical Report CMU/SEI-93-TR-
25, Software Eng. Inst., Carnegie Mellon Univ., Pittsburgh, 
Penn.,1993http://www.sei.cmu.edu/pub/documents/93.reports/p
df/tr24.93.pdf. 
[3] CMMI Product Team, “Capability Maturity Model, 
Integration (CMMI),” Version 1.1, Technical Report CMU/SEI-
2002-TR-011, Software Eng. Inst.,Carnegie Mellon 
Univ.,Pittsburgh,Penn.,2002, 
http://www.sei.cmu.edu/pub/documents/02.reports/pdf/02tr011.
pdf. 
[4]CMMI Product Team, “CMMISM for Systems 
Engineering/Software Engineering/Integrated Product and 
Process Development/Supplier Sourcing, Version 1.1, Staged 
Representation (CMMI-SE/SW/IPPD/SS, V1.1, Staged),” 
Technical Report CMU/SEI-2002-TR-012, Software Eng. Inst., 
Carnegie Mellon Univ., 2002, 
http://www.sei.cmu.edu/pub/documents/02.reports/pdf/02tr012.
pdf. 
[5]Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) from the 
Carnegie Mellon University Software Engineering Institute, 
http://www.sei.cmu.edu/cmmi/. 
[6]WfMC, Workow Management Coalition Terminology & 
Glossary, WfMC-TC-1011, Feb 1999. 
[7] R. Ceron, J.C. Duenas, E. Serrano, and R. Capilla, “A Meta-
model for Requirements Engineering in System Family Context 
for Software Process Improvement Using CMMI,” Software 
Process Improvement: 6th International Conference, June, 2005.  
[8] J. LI, B. Maguire, and Y. Yao, “A Business Process 
Centered Software Analysis Method,” International Journal of 
Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering, Vol. 13, No. 
2, pp153-168, 2003. 
[9] Agentflow http://www.flowring.com/welcome.jsp 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
