1. INTRODUCTION 
 
In recent major earthquakes, many bridges were damaged or even demolished, such as the 
1995 Hyogoken-Nanbu earthquake, the 1999 Chi-Chi earthquake, and the 2008 Wenchuan 
earthquake. A considerable portion among these bridges was damaged at the piers owing to 
plastic hinge or lap-spliced failure at the lower end of the column causing the pier to deform 
dramatically and even collapse. The situation would be more severe for piers that have defects 
due to inadequate design, insufficient material strength, or previous damage. 
   On the other hand, the exposure of the pier foundation and the degradation of supporting 
soil due to scouring, which reduced the bearing capacity of foundation, have caused several 
major highway bridge failures in Taiwan during these years, leading to considerable 
casualties and property losses.  
   These disasters can be mitigated if the vulnerability or the inadequate strength of the pier 
can be detected in advance, and the repair and retrofit works, or the restraint of use is timely 
executed. Direct inspections such as visual examination and contact detection techniques 
(such as the impact echo test, the ultrasonic test, the X-ray test, and etc.) can give useful 
information about the integrity of the piers. However, in some cases the piers can not be 
easily approached for the direct inspection, and it can only be executed occasionally. As for 
the pier foundation exposure, it can not be directly observed visually if the water table is 
above the foundation level. Although it can be possibly detected using instruments installed 
on the foundation, the flow-induced loading and the impact of the flow carryovers may 
destroy the instruments. Consequently, it is necessary to develop reliable indirect damage 
evaluation techniques which are easy to perform and are capable of the long-term and 
real-time monitoring for the bridge piers. 
   The vibration response of a structure system can show the characteristics of the system 
itself, and reflect the boundary conditions of the system as well. Therefore, the measurement 
of the vibration response of structure helps to detect and to quantify the structural damage as 
well as the reduction of the foundation capacity. It is not only easy to perform but also 
capable of continuous monitoring. Moreover, methods for the processing of vibration signals 
are well-developed, and many indices for damage evaluation based on the structural vibration 
response were proposed and have been widely used. 
   In this paper, the vibration measurement was adopted for the damage evaluation of the 
bridge piers. A simplified 2-DOF pier model using a rotation spring to represent the flexural 
failure at the lower end of the column and the reduction of foundation stiffness was proposed. 
The damage level of the pier can be exhibited by the impedance of the rotation spring, which 
can be estimated according to the natural frequency of the pier. A vulnerability index 
proposed by Nakamura (1997) for the viaducts using the microtremors was introduced for the 
rapid damage inspection of bridge pier. In addition, a data dividing and parameter averaging 
scheme for the spectrum analysis of long-term vibration measurement based on the idea of 
Samizo et al. (2007) was utilized to reduce the variation during the vibration measurement. In 
order to actually examined the influence of the structural damage and the base condition of 
the pier on its vibration response, the measurements of ambient vibrations were made on 
several scaled bridge pier specimens of a series of cyclic loading tests for the rocking 
response of the spread foundation performed at the NCREE prior and posterior to the tests. 
The difference in the vibration characteristics of the pier specimens between fixed and 
flexible base conditions and between intact and damaged states were investigated using both 
the 2-DOF pier model and Nakamura’s vulnerability index for bridge pier along with the 
average spectrum analysis scheme to show how it reflects the damage state of the bridge pier. 
 
)()()()(  iUihiUiU gt    
    )()()()(exp
1)2(1
21
22
2
22
2
2


 iUiTriUi
RR
gg
 














 


 
   (7) 
where )( iTr  denotes the transfer function of the motion at the pier top to that at the 
ground. 
   In Eq. (7) if damping is small so that the term 2)2(   is negligible, the peak response (or, 
)( iTr ) occurs in the condition that 
npeak R
R
R
R
R
  1101
2
2
2             (8) 
where ωpeak denotes the frequency at which the peak response of the damaged pier model 
occurs. Then the corresponding peak amplification factor is 
 small  is     when  1
2
1)1(4)1(
2
1)(
5.1
3
223
1


  

 
 R
R
R
RRRiTr
R
R    (9) 
   By comparing the predominant frequencies identified from the vibration response of the 
intact pier model and of the damaged pier model, the dimensionless rotation impedance ratio 
R, which reflects the integrity at the lower end of the pier column, can be estimated: 
 
1
1
2





peak
n
R


      (10) 
When the simplified 2-DOF pier model is used for the damage evaluation, the R-value is 
smaller as the damage state is more severe. 
   The rotation spring at the base in the 2-DOF pier model can also be used to simulate the 
foundation rocking stiffness, which influences the vibration response of the pier top much 
more than other foundation stiffness components. Thus, the foundation exposure or the 
degradation of supporting soil, which lower the rocking stiffness of the pier foundation, can 
also be represented by the reduction of the R-value. 
   It is also possible to estimate the dimensionless rotation impedance ratio R by comparing 
the peak amplification factor of the intact and the damaged pier models (Eq. (2) and Eq(9)). 
However, the damping of structure might increase due to the damage, and it has little 
influence on the natural frequency when it is small yet has considerable influence on the 
vibration amplitude of structure (see Eq. (1) and Eq. (2), or Eq. (8) and Eq. (9)). Therefore, it 
is recommended to estimate the R-value by the change of the natural frequency rather than the 
change of the vibration amplitude when using this 2-DOF pier model for the damage 
evaluation of bridge pier based on its vibration response. 
 
2.2 Nakamura’s Vulnerability Index for Bridge Pier 
 
For the need of rapid diagnosis or real-time monitoring, a concise but representative index for 
damage evaluation is preferable. Among the vulnerability indices proposed by Nakamura 
(1997), the one for the viaduct is appropriate for the damage evaluation for bridge piers, and 
was proved to give a good estimation of the vulnerability of Shinkansen (Japan high speed 
rail) viaducts in the 1995 Hyogo-Ken-Nanbu Earthquake in Japan (Nakamura,1997). The 
3. CASE STUDY 
 
3.1 Introduction of the NCREE Bridge Pier Test 
 
In 2009, a series of lateral loading tests were performed on scaled RC bridge pier specimens 
at NCREE in order to investigate the influence of foundation rocking motion to the response 
of bridge piers. These bridge pier specimens were founded on spread foundation with fixed or 
flexible base conditions. Since the rocking of spread foundation has been experimentally 
verified to decrease the plastic deformation occurring on the plastic zone of piers subjected to 
lateral loads (Hung et al., 2008), the purpose these tests is to gain better understanding of the 
mentioned rocking mechanism in order to have more confidence on its benefit of reducing the 
ductility demand of the piers. 
   Two different designs of the RC piers specimens will be discussed in this paper. The first 
one had a circular-section column with a diameter of 50cm and a height of 2.8m, a square 
footing with the size of 170cm×170cm×50cm (L×W×H), and a removable cap beam with a 
length of 386cm, a maximum depth of 90cm and a weight of approximately 61kN, as shown 
in Figure 4. The longitudinal reinforcement of the column was 12-19 and the transverse 
reinforcement was 13@9cm. This design of pier specimen is abbreviated as Type A 
hereafter. The other had the same column section, the same column height, and exactly the 
same cap beam as Pier Type A. However, the size of the square footing was 
140cm×140cm×50cm (L×W×H), and the reinforcement of the column was with more 
longitudinal bars (18-19) but a larger spacing of transverse bars (13@18cm), causing a 
larger section rigidity but a smaller ductility due to less confinement. This design of pier 
specimen is abbreviated as Type B hereafter. 
   In order to clarify the rocking behavior of the spread foundation, two kinds of base 
conditions of the pier specimens were used. One was the fixed base condition. The other was 
the flexible base condition in which the square footing was rested on a 10 cm thick neoprene 
pad (Duro-60), simulating a spread foundation on stiff soil. 
   During the tests, an axial load was applied to the test column through the cap beam using 
two vertical actuators (see Figure 4(b), but in the figure the vertical actuators were not yet 
connected to the cap beam). The vertical loading was kept constant throughout the test to 
simulate the dead load of the bridge deck. One horizontal actuator was installed at one side of 
the pier top to apply a lateral load along the horizontal longitudinal (HL) direction to simulate 
the seismic loading. The cyclic loading test was performed under displacement control to the 
failure state of the pier.  
 
3.2 Setup of Vibration Measurement on Pier Specimens 
 
The vibration measurements on pier specimens were made under ambient conditions. The 
velocity-type sensor of Tokyo Sokushin Co., Ltd., VSE-15D which operates at a frequency 
range from 0.2 to 70 Hz, was used for the measurement. Sensors were deployed on the top of 
cap beam and on the strong floor, as shown in Figure 5. During the measurement, the 
actuators were not connected to the pier specimen so that the structural characteristics of the 
pier specimens would not be influenced, as shown in Figure 4(b). The vibrations in the 
horizontal longitudinal (HL) direction, the horizontal transverse (HT) direction, and the 
vertical (V) direction at both sensor positions were synchronously recorded for continuously 
20 minutes. The sampling rate was 200 Hz, sufficient to cover the range of the natural 
frequency of piers. Since the flexural failure developed mainly along the load direction, only 
the vibration in the HL direction will be discussed hereafter.  
Hence, the variation of the natural frequency surely reflects the damage level of the pier. On 
the other hand, it was observed that the amplification factor was increased when the damage 
is slight (in the flexible base condition) and was decreased when the damage is severe (in the 
fixed base condition). Since the damping ratio was increased when the pier specimen was 
damaged, this phenomenon might be due to that the amplification factor was raised by the 
reduction of stiffness yet was lowered by the addition of damping due to the energy 
dissipation mechanism from the cracks, 
   Moreover, the natural frequency for the intact pier specimen was lower in the flexible 
base condition than in the fixed base one. This is because the total stiffness of the system was 
reduced by the neoprene pad. However, the amplification factor was decreased due to the 
additional damping from the neoprene pad. These can be regarded as the possible influences 
on the vibration response of the pier caused by the scour of foundations or the degradation of 
supporting soil (Samizo et al., 2007; Ko et al., 2010). 
 
3.3.2 Application of 2-DOF Pier Model 
 
Using the simplified 2-DOF pier model mentioned in section 2.1, the dimensionless rotation 
impedance ratio, R, can be calculated using Eq. (10) according to the natural frequency 
identified from the transfer function for each case to show the damage level of the pier. 
   For the fixed base condition, the R-value of the intact pier specimen was regarded as 
approaching infinity; while the R-value for the flexural failure of the damaged pier specimen, 
Rpier-fixed, was estimated to be 0.240. As for the flexible base condition, the effect of the 
neoprene pad can also be represented by a rotation spring at the base. Then the R-value of the 
neoprene pad, Rpad, was estimated to be 1.056 according to the natural frequencies of the 
intact pier specimens in the fixed and flexible condition. When the flexible-base pier 
specimen was damaged, it can be modeled as a rotation spring for the neoprene pad and one 
for the flexural failure connected in series at the lower end of the column since the thickness 
of the footing was relatively small compared to the total height of the pier. Thus, the total 
R-value of the two rotation springs in series connection, Rtotal, was estimated to be 0.305, and 
the R-value for the flexural failure, Rpier-flexible, was calculated to be 0.429 from the 
relationship: 
flexiblepierpadtotal RRR -
111   (13) 
   The above results of the dimensionless rotation impedance ratios are summarized in Table 
2. Comparing the R-values representing the integrity of the lower end of the pier column in 
the fixed and flexible base conditions, Rpier-fixed, and Rpier-flexible, it is found that the former is 
56% of the later. This means that the flexural failure of the fixed-base pier specimen was 
more severe than the flexible-base one so that the stiffness of the equivalent rotation spring 
simulating the damaged part of the column was lower in the fixed base condition, 
conformable to the damage states of the pier specimens observed in Figure 8. 
 
3.3.3 Application of Nakamura’s Vulnerability Index for Bridge Pier 
 
According to the natural frequency and the corresponding amplification factor identified from 
the transfer function for each case in section 3.3.1, Nakamura’s vulnerability index for bridge 
pier mentioned in section 2.2 can be calculated. Since the dimensions of the pier were the 
same in each case, Eq. (12) is simplified into: 
 2
n
pier f
AK   (14) 
specimen in the damaged state and the flexible-base one in both intact and damaged states 
obtained from the 20-minute ambient vibration measurements (except for the case of the 
flexible-base intact specimen, in which only the 5-minute record was used because there was 
occasional jamming during the measurement). Although the vibration measurement was not 
made on Type B fixed-base specimen in the intact state, its natural frequency can be 
estimated according to that of the fixed-base Type A pier specimen in the intact state which is 
5.00 Hz. By section analysis the section rigidity of Type B specimen was obtained, which was 
1.18 times of Type A specimen. Then the natural frequency in the intact state in this case was 
accordingly estimated to be 5.43Hz.  
   From Figure 8 it is observed that the natural frequency of the fixed-base specimen in the 
damaged state is 1.83 Hz, which is 66.2% dropped compared to the one in the intact state. 
Since in this case the vibration measurement was made only for the damage state, and the 
corresponding amplification factor is 58.9. 
   As for the flexible-base specimen, the natural frequency is 3.62 Hz and the corresponding 
amplification factor is 21.1 in the intact state; while in the damaged state, the natural 
frequency is 3.33 Hz, which is only 7.85% dropped, and the corresponding amplification 
factor is 25.9, larger than in the intact state. It is noted that in both case the transfer functions 
have a minor peak around 3Hz. This is possibly due to the boundary condition of the 
foundation was not well set to meet the design requirements so that the unexpected vibration 
mode showed up. 
   In addition, the damping ratio  of the damaged fixed-base Type B specimen is estimated 
using the half-power bandwidth method (HPBM) to be 2.63%. As for the flexible-base 
specimen, since the transfer functions in both intact and damaged states had two peaks, which 
is against the basic assumption of HPBM, the damping ratio is not estimated here. 
   All these results are also summarized in Table 1 for comparison. It is found that the drop 
of natural frequency due to damage in the fixed base condition was more significant for Type 
B pier specimen than for Type A, while the drop of natural frequency due to damage in the 
flexible base condition was less significant for Type B specimen than for Type A. That is, for 
the fixed base condition, the damage state of Type B specimen was more severe than Type A; 
while for the flexible base condition, the damage state of Type A specimen was more severe. 
In addition, the damping ratio of the damaged fixed-base Type B specimen is larger than the 
damaged fixed-base Type A specimen, indicating that the damping ratio was increased with 
the damage level. 
 
3.4.2 Application of 2-DOF Pier Model 
 
For the fixed base condition, the R-value for the flexural failure of the damaged pier specimen, 
Rpier-fixed , is estimated to be 0.129 according to the estimated natural frequency of the intact 
specimen and the measured one of the damaged specimen using Eq. (10). As for the flexible 
base condition, the R-value of the neoprene pad, Rpad, was estimated to be 0.800 according to 
the natural frequencies of the fixed-base and flexible-base intact specimens. Then the R-value 
for the flexural failure of the damaged flexible-base specimen, Rpier-flexible, was subsequently 
calculated to be 2.500, which is apparently higher than Rpier-fixed, showing the damage level of 
the flexible-base specimen was much lower than the fixed-base one. 
   These results are also summarized in Table 2 for further comparison. For the fixed base 
condition it is found that Rpier-fixed of Type B specimen is smaller than Rpier-fixed of Type A 
specimen; while for the flexible base condition, Rpier-flexible of Type B specimen is larger than 
Rpier-flexible of Type A specimen. These are conformable to the observed damage states of these 
pier specimens.  
 
of Pier Specimen 
Type A- Intact 5.00Hz 105.3 1.14%  3.58Hz 28.7 2.26% 
Type A- Damaged 2.20Hz 81.2 2.24%  2.42Hz 35.2 2.70% 
Type B- Intact 5.43Hz N.A. N.A.  3.62Hz 21.1 N.A 
Type B- Damaged 1.83Hz 58.9 2.63%  3.33Hz 25.9 N.A 
 
 
Table 2. Dimensionless rotation impedance ratio and Nakamura’s vulnerability index 
 
Type and Integrity 
of Pier Specimen 
Fixed Base Flexible Base 
Rpier Kpier  Rpad Rpier Kpier
Type A- Intact ~∞ 4.21  1.056 ~∞ 2.24 
Type A- Damaged 0.240 16.77  1.056 0.429 6.02 
Type B- Intact ~∞ N.A.  0.800 ~∞ 1.61 
Type B- Damaged 0.129 17.52  0.800 2.500 2.33 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Simplified pier model: (a) intact, and (b) damaged. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Bridge pier excited by ground motion (modified from Nakamura(1997)). 
 
 
 
Figure 5. Setup of vibration measurement on pier specimen. 
 
 
 
(a)
(b)
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
-0.01
-0.005
0
0.005
0.01
Time (sec)
v(
t) 
(c
m
/s
)
 
 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
-0.01
-0.005
0
0.005
0.01
Time (sec)
v(
t) 
(c
m
/s
)
 
 
 
Figure 6. HL vibration time histories at the top of cap beam for the case of (a) intact and (b) 
damaged specimens in the fixed base condition. 
 
 
 
出國報告 
陳正興 
一、 參加會議經過 
本次「第十七屆國際土壤力學及大地工程會議」(17th International 
Conferenceon oil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering)是由國際大地工程
學會（ISSMGE）、埃及大地工程學會（EGS）及埃及政府所共同主辦，會
議時間是 98 年 10 月 5 日到 10 月 9 日，共為期五天，地點在埃及亞歷山大
的圖書館舉行（Bibliotheca Alexandrina）。本人獲國科會補助經費參與本次
大會，本次會議共有世界各國一千餘人參加，國內共有十七人參加，其中
包含大地工程學會組團的十三人，浩浩蕩蕩一行人從台北出發，途經星加
坡，轉機飛經杜拜短暫停留後再飛抵開羅，歷經約二十四小時，真是辛苦
的行程。 
本屆會議包含有 Terzaghi Oration，今年由樁基礎權威教授 Prof. 
Harry Poulos 進行第一場學術演講，內容精闢，深獲好評。本屆會議共有
五大主題，會議前兩天主要是邀請大會所規劃的五大主題中最頂尖的學者專
家共同發表目前最先進的研究成果（State of the art），分別為： 
主題一：土壤力學之材料行為及試驗（Material Behavior and Testing）
邀請美國喬治亞大學 Prof. Paul Mayne 進行演講。 
主題二：分析與設計（Analysis and Design）邀請英國 ARUP 集團 Dr. Brian 
Simpson 進行演講。 
主題三：監測及評估（Prediction, Monitoring & Evaluation of 
Performance）邀請巴西工務局 Dr. Arsenio Negro 進行演講。 
主題四：施工（Construction Process）則邀請新加坡南洋理工大學 Prof. 
Chu Jian 進行演講。 
主題五：訓練教育（Management, Training & Education）邀請澳洲阿德
雷德土木及環境工程大學教授 Prof. Mark Jaksa 進行演講。 
 
