射頻發射器 
“RF Transmitter” 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-002-364 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日 至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：呂學士 臺灣大學電機系/電子所教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫於前兩年度完成了射頻發射器的
關鍵組成電路包含升頻器、數位增益控制的可
變增益放大器與電壓控制振盪器。在本年度則
著重於低通濾波器與分數型頻率合成器的製
作。 
低通濾波器可提供三種頻寬：5 MHz, 10 
MHz and 20 MHz。此外，我們將自動校正迴
路加入低通濾波器以達成自動調整頻寬的功
能。以雜訊推移技術我們製作了一個分數型頻
率合成器。藉由此技術，通道帶內的相位雜音
可降低 12 dB，通道帶外的相位雜音則可以降
低 15 dB。 
Abstract 
During the first two years, transmitter building 
blocks including a modulator, the digital gain 
control function of a linear-in-dB digitally 
controlled variable gain amplifier and a voltage 
controlled oscillator have been implemented. In 
this year, the project was focused on the 
implementation of a low pass filter (LPF) and a 
fractional-N frequency synthesizer.  
The low pass filter can provide three different 
bandwidths, namely 5 MHz, 10 MHz and 20 
MHz. In addition, an auto-tuning-loop (ATL) is 
incorporated into the low pass filter to achieve 
automatic bandwidth adjustment. The frequency 
synthesizer is implemented with a quantization 
noise pushing technique. The in-band phase 
noise can be lowered by 12 dB, and the out-band 
phase noise contributed by the ΔΣ modulator can 
be reduced by more than 15dB with this 
technique. 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
本計畫之目的在於完成一 WLAN 發射器，發
射器架構如 Fig. 1 所示。前兩年度已經順利完
成 Modulator、VGA 與 VCO 部分。本年度在
於繼續完成低通濾波器(LPF)的部分，並且製
作一個分數型頻率合成器來產生所需要的載
波信號，進一步將發射器的整合度升級，如
Fig.2 所示。 
 
 
Fig. 1: The preliminary transmitter block 
diagram.  
 
 
Fig. 2: The present transmitter block diagram. 
 
三、 研究方法及成果 
此部分將低通濾波器 (LPF)與頻率合成器
(Frequency Synthesizer) 分別來做說明: 
 
Low Pass Filter (LPF) 
The block diagram of the low pass filter (LPF) is 
depicted in Fig. 3. The main function of LPF is 
to provide low-pass filtering for the incoming 
base band signal. Based on a 7th-order 
Chebyshev filter, this LPF consists of a 1st-order 
gm-C filter and three biquads. The block 
 
Fig. 7: The measured frequency responses of 
ABBs at 5/10/20-MHz modes. 
 
Frequency Synthesizer 
A quantization noise pushing (QNP) 
technique which can speed up the operating 
frequency of the ΔΣ modulator without 
increasing the comparison frequency of the PFD 
is proposed. By using this technique, both the 
20logM reduction of the in-band phase noise and 
the 60logM reduction of the quantization noise 
can be simultaneously realized. Similar structure 
used to shorten the lock time in an integer-N 
PLL has been reported in [2], but its advantage 
to improve the phase noise in a fractional-N PLL 
has never been addressed. The PLL architecture 
is depicted in Fig. 8. To separate the operating 
frequency of the ΔΣ modulator and the 
comparison frequency of the PFD, we make use 
of multiple PFDs and charge pumps (CPs) as 
well as a circulator in this structure. 
  
 
Fig. 8: Quantization noise pushing technique. 
  
The circulator sends the divider output pulses 
to PFD1, PFD2…, and PFDM in turn while the 
reference signal is sent to PFD1, PFD2…, and 
PFDM by a phase shift of 0°, 360°/M…, and 
(M-1)360°/M, respectively. Since each PFD is 
activated only once while the ΔΣ modulator 
samples M times in a reference cycle, we can 
thus make the ΔΣ modulator operate faster than 
the PFDs. Now that the output frequency of the 
divider is M times the reference frequency, the 
output frequency of the frequency synthesizer 
becomes M‧K‧fREF, where K represents the 
division ratio of the frequency divider and fREF is 
the reference frequency. Consequently, while the 
equivalent division ratio is M‧K, the loop gain 
of the PLL remains 20logK, which results in a 
decrease in the in-band phase noise of 20logM. 
This frequency synthesizer is designed to 
cover a frequency range from 2550 MHz to 3200 
MHz. The whole system consists of four PFDs, 
four CPs, a VCO with a 3-bit capacitors array, a 
frequency divider, a circulator, a MASH1-1-1 
ΔΣ modulator (DSM), a dynamic auto-frequency 
calibration (DAFC) loop [3] and a three-wire 
interface control circuit (TWIF). The circulator 
is a demultiplexer controlled by an FSM. The 
FSM changes its state after every divider output 
signal (DIVOUT) comes and then the 
demultiplexer switches the DIVOUT to the next 
PFD. 
This fractional-N frequency synthesizer was 
implemented in a 0.18um CMOS process. The 
microphotograph of this chip is shown in Fig. 9. 
The die area is 0.85 mm2 (0.83 mm×1.03 mm) 
excluding the measurement pads and ESD 
protection circuits. The supply voltage is 2 V 
and the total power consumption is 26.8 mW.  
 
 
Fig. 9: The chip microphotograph. 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-002-364 
計畫名稱 射頻發射機 
出國人員姓名服務機關及職稱 陳筱青 電子所 博士班研究生  
會議時間地點 Orlando, Florida, USA 
會議名稱 Mobile WiMAX  
發表論文題目 CMOS RF Circuits for 5-GHz BWA 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
此次參與之會議為 MobileWiMAX 會議，舉辦地點為美國佛羅里達州的奧蘭多會
議中心，會議舉辦時間自三月二十七號至三月二十八號，為期兩天。 
第一天(3/27) 9:00到 10:30大會邀請三位來自業界的專家發表演說,他們分別是 Siavash 
M. Alamouti Intel Fellow, Mobility Group, Chief Technology Officer, Intel Corporation, 
USA), Hwan Chung (Vice President of Mobile WiMAX Marketing Group, Samsung, Korea)
與 Donald P. Shaver( Director, Texas Instrument, USA)。 Alamouti為通訊領域裡知名度
相當高，他的演講十分精彩，讓我留下極深印象也覺得獲益良多。 
10:30到 11:00 大家利用 Tea break 休息一下，便開始各個 session的文章發表。下
午 2:00到 3:30由大會所邀請另外三位來自學術界及業界的專家發表專題演講，他們分
別是 Rao Yallapragada (Senior Director, Qualcomm, USA)，Jenq-Neng Hwang (Professor, 
University of Washington, USA) 與  Hikmet Sari (Chief Scientist, SEQUANS 
Communications, France)。 3:30到 4:00大家利用 Tea break 休息一下，便又繼續各個
session的文章發表。 
 
第二天(3/28) 9:00 到 10:30 大會邀請三位來自業界的專家發表演說,他們分別是
John Hoadley (Wireless CTO, Nortel Networks, USA)，Roger Marks (Senior Vice President 
for Industry Relations, NextWave Broadband, Inc., USA) 與 Yoshihiro Obata, EVP & CTO 
(eAccess Ltd., Japan)。10:30到 11:00 大家利用 Tea break 休息一下，便開始各個 session
的文章發表。下午 2:00到 3:30由大會所邀請另外四位來自學術界及業界的專家發表專
題演講，他們分別是Mike Seymour(Vice President, North America Broadband Wireless 
Access & Convergence)，Mohammad Shakouri(Alvarion, Isreal)，Luís G.P. Meloni(Professor, 
Unicamp, Brasil) 與 Ashish Dayama (Senior Marketing Manager, Global Marketing & 
Communications, Networks & Enterprise Motorola, Inc).。 3:30到 4:00大家利用 Tea break 
休息一下，便又繼續各個 session的文章發表。這次MobileWiMAX兩天半裡總共有 28
個口頭報告，同一時間有 4個平行的 session (七個口頭報告) 同時舉行。此次我所做的
是口頭報告，口頭報告時間是 3/27 自下午三點十分至三點半，口頭報告結束後有 
