disease (PAD) or peripheral vascular disease 
(PVD). The disease can result from 
atherosclerosis, inflammatory processes leading 
to artery stenosis, or thrombus formation. 
PAOD is common among older people and the 
risk increases sharply with age. Moreover, 
PAOD is also a strong risk factor of other 
cardiovascular events and mortality. There is 3- 
to 4-fold increase in the relative risk for 
all-cause mortality associated with PAOD, and 
it may affect 15 to 20% of people older than 
70[1-2]. The relative risk of cardiovascular 
death is between 4 and 6. One of predilection 
sites for PAOD is the leg. The symptoms and 
signs include pain during walking or exercise 
(intermittent claudication), ischemic pain at rest, 
ulcers and gangrene (see Figure 1). The most 
serious consequence is severe limb threatening 
ischemia which often leads to amputation. 
 
Figure 1. Lower limb tissue ulcer [3] 
Therefore, an easy-detecting method for 
lower limb PAOD is important for patients to 
prevent disabling claudication, ischemic rest 
pain, or gangrene even amputation. The optical 
technique is a proper solution for clinical PVOD 
monitoring. According to the previous studies, 
PPG signals have been used in assessing 
cardiovascular diseases and can also provide 
valuable information for PVOD assessment. 
In this study, we developed a non-invasive 
and portable system including microcirculation 
and oxygen saturation measurement by using 
optical technique for PAOD diagnosing and 
assessing (Figure 2). The aim of this research 
was to utilize this homecare system for PAOD 
patient to observe and obtain the 
microcirculation condition in their lower limbs. 
PC
Photo detector 
circuit
Laser driver 
circuit
Filter & Amp 
circuit
MCU 
PIC32MX
Microcirculatin
SaO2
Vasculopathy
ECG signal 
PPG 
ECG
 
Figure 2. The flow chart of the PAOD 
diagnosing system 
III. Research principles 
PPG is an optical measurement technique 
that can be used to detect microcirculation 
changes non-invasively. Its technique is 
compact and low cost and can be designed as a 
portable instrument. PPG’s clinical applications 
include physiological monitoring, vascular 
assessment, and autonomic functions in medical 
devices such as heart rate, blood pressure, 
measuring blood oxygen saturation, and 
vascular diagnosis like PAOD. Detecting 
patient’s lower limb PAOD earlier is very 
important to prevent disabling, ischemic rest 
pain, gangrene and amputation. Thus, the 
optical technique is a promising solution for 
clinical PAOD monitoring. 
1. Photoplethysmograph (PPG) 
PPG is an optically obtained 
plethysmograph, which is a volumetric 
measurement of blood volume changes (Fig. 3). 
It requires light sources to illuminate the skin, 
and a photo-sensor can detect the light intensity 
The oxygen saturation of vascular blood 
derives from Beer Lambert’s law, and the Beer 
Lambert’s law describes the attenuation of light 
traveling through a uniform medium containing 
an absorbing substance. If monochromatic 
incident light of intensity I0 enters the medium, 
a part of this light is transmitted through the 
medium while another part is absorbed. The 
light intensity I decreased exponentially with 
distance when traveling through the medium. 
( )
0
cdI I e ε λ−= ×      (2) 
I   transmission light intensity 
I0   incident light intensity 
ε(λ)  absorption coefficient 
c  concentration 
d  optical path 
dc)(
0 e×I=I
⋅⋅− λε
 
Figure 6. Schematic diagram of Beer Lambert’s 
law 
In Figure 6, ε(λ) is the absorption 
coefficient of the absorbing substance at a 
specific wavelength, c the concentration of the 
absorbing substance which is constant in the 
medium, and d the optical path length through 
the medium. The unit of concentration c is 
mmol L-1 and the absorption coefficient is 
expressed in L mmol-1cm-1. When the emitter 
light traveling through the living tissue, the light 
absorbing by oxyhemoglobin and 
deoxyhemoglobin of the blood. 
3. The bilateral differences in timing 
parameters for  PAOD assessment 
According to the previous researches, PPG 
signals have been used to provide valuable 
information for PAOD assessment. They 
obtained PPG from multiple sites, such as the 
right and left big toes, and index fingers. 
However, patients’ age and the affected body 
sites would result in different PPG 
characteristics. Many researchers have 
examined this phenomenon through 
time-domain techniques on the subjects [8-12]. 
The literature has quantified pulse transit timing 
changes with ages at various body sites. Many 
features have been collected simultaneously 
from the right and left big toes, including pulse 
rise time (RT), pulse transit time (PTT), 
amplitude (AMP), shape, and width/height ratio . 
In clinical measurement, ECG R-peak is used as 
the timing reference for obtaining bilateral 
transit-timing parameters, including PTTf (ECG 
R-peak to pulse foot), PTTp (ECG R-peak to 
pulse peak), and RT (foot-to-pulse peak rise 
time), as shown in Figure 7. When the 
resistance of peripheral vessels increases or the 
vessels are occlusive, transit time will delay, 
and the pulse wave will change in amplitude 
(AMP) and shape. For bilateral PPG signals, the 
right-to-left side differences, such as ΔPTTf, 
ΔPTTp, ΔRT, and ΔAMP, are significant 
different by diseases.  
 
Figure 7. ECG and PPG pulses and pulse 
landmarks for a patient with PAOD [12] 
The semiconductor laser has physical 
properties of high frequency response and high 
power output, but laser cannot maintain a 
constant optical output if the temperature of 
device changes, and the inrush-current may let 
the laser diode to be destroyed. As shown in 
Figure 9, we can see the laser diode output 
power increases with the laser diode 
temperature increment. The laser output power 
will be unstable if we drive laser by the 
constant-current sources. Therefore, we must 
use the laser driver circuit to drive and control 
the laser diode. 
 
Figure 9. laser diode output power relation 
between current and temperature [16] 
2. Photodetector and analog signal circuit 
We used phototransistor as photodetector 
sensor. The phototransistor receives the light 
source from refraction and scatters laser light. 
And then, we transformed the light intensity 
signal from current into voltage signal by 
current to voltage convert circuit (Figure 10). In 
this system, we used silicon NPN 
phototransistor (BPW96A, Vishay Telefunken, 
Germany) as the photodetector. The detector 
can receive the light with the wavelength from 
620 nm to 980 nm (Figure 11). 
 
Figure 10. Photodetector circuit 
Figure 12. The block diagram of the ECG 
measurement system 
 
Figure 11. Relative Spectral Sensitivity vs. 
Wavelength [17] 
After receiving the light signal and 
transforming current to voltage, we used 
Sallen-Key filter to get the 0.3Hz to 10Hz PPG 
signal. The Sallen-Key topology is an electronic 
filter topology used to implement second-order 
active filters with a special characteristic of 
simplicity. A Sallen-Key filter is a variation on 
a VCVS (voltage-controlled voltage-source) 
filter that uses a unity-gain amplifier. We used 
this filter in our system, since its high input 
impedance and easily selectable gain. 
 
Figure 15. The interface of analysis program 
6. System Implementation 
Figure 16 shows the microcirculation 
measurement system which includes an ECG 
probe and three channel PPG microcirculation 
probes. The system can measure ECG and PPG 
signal concurrently and utilize the USB to 
transmit the digital signal to the computer for 
display and analysis. There were four knobs for 
ECG and PPG signals gain control to adjust the 
signal amplitude and two switches for system 
and laser power. 
 
Figure 16. Implementation of the 
microcirculation measurement system 
7. Performance of the three channels 
microcirculation system  
The internal circuit of the microcirculation 
measurement system is shown in Figure 17. The 
microcirculation measurement system 
composed of four main circuits including PIC 
expansion module, laser control circuit module 
and power supply circuit. These circuits isolated 
with each other for preventing the interference 
between digital and analog signals. The PIC 
expansion module was the core controller of the 
measurement system and it controlled the 
periphery circuit such us laser control circuit 
and analog circuit et cetera. In this chapter, we 
introduce the results of circuit modules. 
 
Figure 17. Internal circuit of the 
microcirculation measurement system (a) PIC 
expansion module (b) Analog circuit (c) Laser 
control circuit (d) Power circuit 
V. Experimental setup 
In PPG measurement, each subject was 
asked to relax and lie supine on a couch in room 
temperature (25℃). Three channels PPG signals 
and one channel ECG signal were used to detect 
physiological parameters. First, we measured 
the PPG signals from the side of bilateral toes 
and right finger, and measured ECG signal at 
the same time. The process was about 15 min. 
Then, subjects had to reset for 5 min for final 
ABPI measurement. 
parameters (∆PTTf and ∆PTTp) and ∆ABPI, 
obtained from normal subjects (○), lower-grade 
patients (▽) and higher-grade (■) patients. The 
statistical results show the positive correlation 
between ABPI and time parameters (∆PTTf and 
∆PTTp), and the time parameters (∆PTTf and 
∆PTTp) of patients were higher than normal 
subjects. 
Figure 22 is the statistical result of 
differences in △ SaO2. According to the 
previous literature [14], abnormal pulse 
oximetry of the toes was defined as an △SaO2 
value of more than 2% lower than the finger 
value. The results indicated the △SaO2 is not a 
good quantification index to separate the 
difference between the patients and normal 
subjects. 
 
Figure 20. The correlation between bilateral 
differences in ∆PTTf and ∆ABPI 
 
Figure 21. The correlation between bilateral 
differences in ∆PTTp and ∆ABPI 
 
Figure 22. The statistical result of differences 
in △SaO2 
VII. Conclusion 
The purpose of this study is to develop a 
portable and non-invasive microcirculation 
measurement system using photo-electronic 
technique based on PPG and arterial SaO2 
analysis. This system could evaluate the 
microcirculation state to help diagnosis of 
peripheral artery abnormalities. The results 
indicate that the bilateral measurement such as 
△PTTp and △PTTf are good indexes 
especially in ABPI<0.9 groups for PAOD 
diagnose. Figure 23 is shown the distribution of 
△PTTp and △PTTf. The results show that 
△PTTp and △PTTf increases with the risk of 
PAOD. It also indicated the △PTTp and 
△PTTf parameters can distinguish the PAOD 
patients and normal subjects effectively. Our 
system could collocate with ECG signal to get 
the microcirculation time parameters such as 
△PTTp, △PTTf and △RT. In this study, our 
self-developed laser based microcirculation 
measurement system provides high 
performances and stability for measure the 
physiological parameters and it has the 
http://www.aocepi.com.tw/html/ 
[17] BPW96A silicon phototransistor datasheet, 
http://www.vishay.com/, Vishay 
Telefunken, Germany 
[18] PIC32MX675F512L Data Sheet, 
http://www.microchip.com/, Microchip, 
USA 
[19] FT245BL Data Sheet, Future Technology 
http://www.ftdichip.com/, Devices 
International Ltd. USA 
無研發成果推廣資料 
期刊論文 2 2 100% 
1. 題 目 ：
Synchronizing 
Chaotification for 
Diabetic Foot 
PeripheralVascular 
Occlusive 
Estimation Using a 
SVM Classifier with 
the Wolf Pack 
Search Algorithm 
投 稿 期 刊 ： IEEE 
Transactions on 
Computational 
Biology and 
Bioinformatics 
2. 題 目 ：
Development of a 
portable 
Near-infrared 
system for 
evaluation of 
peripheral 
arterial occlusive 
disease 
投 稿 期 刊 ：
Measurement 
Science and 
Technology 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
