I 
NSC Project - Final Compact Report 
 
 
The Study of a Novel Framework of Robot Learning 
by Imitation 
 
Hsien-I Lin 
 
 
Contents 
 
I、 Abstract ………………………………………………………………………1 
II、 Project Content…………………………………………………………………2 
(a) Motivation ……………………………………………………………………… 2 
(b) Objectives ………………………………………………………………………2 
( c )  R e s u l t s  … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 3 
(d) Conclusions ………………………………………………………………7 
(e) References ………………………………………………………………8 
II、Supplements  … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 8 
Self-evaluation ………………………………………………………………10 
2 
 
II. Project Content 
(a) Motivation 
Recent advances in information technology and mechatronics have fostered the development 
of many exciting human-centered robots such as humanoid robots, healthcare robots, service 
robots, and social robots. Their development was driven by the projection that these advanced 
robots will have a place in our society and in our daily life activities as assistive robots. 
Endowing these robots with the ability of skill learning will enable them to be versatile and 
skillful in performing various tasks. Skills are an ability to perform sensory-motor 
coordination and control to accomplish a desired task. Humans often exhibit such skills as a 
result of refinement of motor learning through training over a long period of time, and new 
skills are developed from learned skills. Should humanoid robots have the ability to acquire 
skills as humans do, we can expect a dramatic improvement in their performance in various 
tasks. Thus, one of the major objectives of the proposed research focuses on providing the 
answer: Can a humanoid robot have the motor capability to perform a task demonstrating a 
human skill? The problem of transferring human skills to robots raises tremendous research 
interest in studying the motor control strategies of human and robot motor skills. Even though 
it appears that humans perform motor skills effortlessly, it becomes complicated when robots 
attempt to comprehend human control strategies and duplicate human-like robot motor skills. 
The proposed project aims to develop an index of performance to evaluate the robot motor 
capability for the application of transferring human skills to robots.  
 
(b) Objectives 
The goal of this work is to investigate a novel framework of robot learning by imitation. This 
framework provides robots an innovative and intelligent learning mechanism to obtain skills 
through imitation of the interactions between a human and an environment. Learning by 
imitation can improve the motor performance of a robot by decreasing its motor learning time. 
Also, for various tasks and environments, a robot can effectively accomplish a given task 
through the observation demonstrated by humans in the same environment. Thus, this work 
will propose a novel framework of robot learning by imitation, which endows a robot the 
capability of learning skills autonomously for adapting the robot in different and complicated 
environments. In this work, the corresponding problem and motor-equivalence are two of the 
most significant problems in learning by imitation. First, the corresponding problem deals 
with the mapping of corresponding body parts from a human to a robot, and its major problem 
originates from the difference between kinematics, dynamics, and control between a human 
and a robot. On the other side, motor-equivalence discusses how to find an optimal motion 
solution among various ones by which a given task can be achieved. For the corresponding 
problem, this work will propose some feasible solutions. First, we will focus on how to 
quantify the index of robot motor performance to evaluate whether human movements can be 
faithfully imitated by a robot and whether the index of robot motor performance can be 
4 
 
robot is capable of imitating human arm movements. This project utilizes particle-swarm 
optimization (PSO) to derive the joint angles of a human shoulder in the sequence 
independent joint representation. Also, we develop a metric to quantitatively measure the 
degree that a robot arm can reproduce similar human arm movements based on the one of the 
derived joint angles. The reason is that the derived joint angle represented in the 
sequence-independent joint representation is exactly the joint angle of the lacked degree of 
freedom in a robot arm compared to a human shoulder. With the proposed metric, any 
inimitable human arm movements should be regenerated in the framework of learning by 
imitation. The details are referred to ``Evaluation of Human Arm Movement Imitation by a 
Robot’’ which is submitted to the 8th Asian control conference. 
 
One of our experiments was performed as: the subject demonstrated a sequence of arm 
movements shown in Fig. 10. From Figs. 1 (a) to (b), he abducted the arm; from Figs. 1 (b) to 
(c), he extended the arm; from Figs. 1 (c) to (d), he flexed and adducted the arm. Using the 
marker system, the project derived the location coordinate transformation between the chest 
and upper arm. Then, we applied the PSO technique to find the numerical solution of angles. 
Figures 1(a), (b), and (c) show the angles about the human shoulder of the human arm 
movements shown in Fig. 1. Then we used these angles to drive a robot arm.  
 
Figure 1 A human subject performed a sequence of arm movements including (a)initial 
posture, (b)abduction, (c)extension, (d)flexion and adduction. The right-hand-side picture is 
the robot performing the motion as the subject did. 
 
In this project, we have presented the metric to evaluate how faithfully a robot is capable of 
imitating human movements. Since most humanoid robots have two degree-of-freedom in the 
6 
 
 
Figure 3 Minimum-jerk joint trajectory of joint 2. Solid line: position; dashed line: velocity; 
dotted line: acceleration; dot-dashed line: jerk. 
 
Figure 4 Minimum-jerk joint trajectory of joint 3. Solid line: position; dashed line: velocity; 
dotted line: acceleration; dot-dashed line: jerk. 
 
Figure 5 Minimum-jerk joint trajectory of joint 4. Solid line: position; dashed line: velocity; 
dotted line: acceleration; dot-dashed line: jerk. 
 
 
8 
 
(e)  References 
[1] Y. Kuniyoshi, M. Inaba, and H. Inoue, “Learning by watching: Extracting reusable task 
knowledge from visual observation of human performance,” IEEE Trans. Robot. Autom., vol. 
10, no. 6, pp. 799–822, 1994. 
[2] K. Ikeuchi, M. Kawade, and T. Suehiro, “Assembly task recognition with planar, curved 
and mechanical contacts,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom., vol. 2, May 1993, pp. 
688–694. 
[3] S. Nakaoka, A. Nakazawa, K. Yokoi, H. Hirukawa, and K. Ikeuchi, “Generating whole 
body motions for a biped humanoid robot from captured human dances,” in Proc. IEEE Int. 
Conf. Robot. Autom., Sep 2003, pp. 3905–3910. 
[4] C. L. Nehaniv and K. Dautenhahn, “The correspondence problem,” Imitation in Animals 
and Artifacts (K. Dautenhahn and C. L. Nehaniv, eds., MIT Press), pp. 41–61, 2002. 
[5] Y. Sakagami, R. Watanabe, C. Aoyama, S. Matsunaga, N. Higaki, and K. Fujimura, “The 
intelligent asimo: System overview and integration,” in Proc. IEEE/RSJ Int. Conf. Intell. 
Robot. Syst., Dec 2002, pp. 2478–2483. 
[6] V. Potkonjak, D. Kostic, S. Tzafestas, M. Popovic, M. Lazarevic, and G. Djordjevic, 
“Human-like behavior of robot arms: general considerations and the handwriting task- part ii: 
the robot arm in handwriting,” Robotics and Computer Integrated Manufacturing, vol. 17, pp. 
317–327, 2001. 
[7] J. Huang, B. T. Quan, M. Harada, and T. Yabuta, “Emulating the motion of a human upper 
limb: Controlling a finger-arm robot by using the manipulability of its finger,” in Proc. IEEE 
Int. Conf. Robot. Biomimetics, Dec 2006, pp. 607–612. 
[8] G. S. Dordevic, M. Rasic, D. Kostic, and V. Potkonjak, “Representation of robot motion 
control skill,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern. C, vol. 30, no. 2, pp. 219–238, May 2000. 
[9] P. L. Cheng, “Joint rotation between two attitudes in the spherical rotation coordinate 
system,” J. Biomechanics, vol. 37, no. 10, pp. 1475–1482, Oct 2004. 
[10] A. Piazzi and A. Visioli, “Global minimum-jerk trajectory planning of robot 
manipulators,” Int. J. Robot. and Autom., vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 140–149, Feb 2000. 
 
III. Supplements 
In this project, we have published some academic results to some well-known journals, 
conferences, and magazines. The list is shown as below. 
(1) W. H. Chen, S. H. Tsai, and H. I. Lin, "Fault Section Estimation for Power Networks 
using Logic Cause-effect Models", accepted by IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery. 
(2) H. I. Lin, “Skill learning for assistive robotics,” in SICE Annual Conf., August    
    2010, pp. 1904–1908. 
(3) H. I. Lin and Y. C. Liu, ’’Global Minimum-Jerk Joint Trajectory using Particle Swarm 
Optimization,’’ submitted to Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom., 2011.  
(4) H. I. Lin,Y. C. Liu, and C. L. Chen, ’’Robot Arm Motion Learning by Imitation,’’ 
10 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
□ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
This research provides the investigation of a unified approach for the characterization 
of robot motor skills and capability through analytical derivation from robot 
kinematics, dynamics and control. We shall characterize the robot motor capability by 
a pseudo index of motor performance to show that the robot has the capability of 
learning skills from human demonstration. The impacts of the research work includes 
a pseudo index of robot motor performance to evaluate the feasibility of skill transfer 
from humans to robots and a framework of imitation learning by robots. The broader 
impacts of this research can be seen in three areas: societal, research and education, 
and outreach impacts. The proposed research will have a major impact on 
understanding robot motor skills, capability and limitation, and its application to 
human-robot interaction. We also plan to organize workshops and tutorials for 
graduate students and encourage minority graduate students from other universities to 
participate in these workshops/tutorials. This project will also benefit education and 
outreach. The research results will be integrated into our graduate robotics course. 
Our research provides an excellent vehicle to educate high-school students and 
encourage them to select engineering /robotics/computer science for their higher 
education and career. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/23
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 機器人模仿學習的創新系統框架之研究(I)
計畫主持人: 林顯易
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-027-003- 學門領域: 智慧型機器人 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 應用於移動裝置上的平台平衡結構
(英文) A mechanical structure on a mobile platform for providing dynamic balance
成果歸屬機構
國立臺北科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
林顯易,劉育成
技術說明
(中文) 本創作係一種擬二維陀螺儀之裝置，其應用在於自走車的路徑搜尋中擔任「眼
睛」之角色，為了防止因路面不平導致攝影機擷取到模糊影像，本創作採用之方
法係增加中間轉子之質量，在將外框與內框之軸承摩擦力降至最低，又，CCD鏡
頭固定於本創作轉子平臺後，在利用外框與內框的軸承低摩擦力之特性，讓本創
作可對兩軸作自由運動，如此一來即可避免自走車因路面不平、環境不佳 造成
攝影機做Pitch與Roll的偏擺。 
 本創作係屬於二軸之自由度運動，其自走車在左右轉情況下，攝影機會隨之同
步轉動，在轉動過程中如遇不平路面，仍可靠著外框與內框之轉軸使內軸承維持
平衡，讓攝影機只會在同一平面上移動。 
(英文) The invention is a design of a mechanical structure on a mobile platform to provide 
dynamic balance. By the special design of our invention, it is able to keep any device on 
this mechanical structure balanced no matter how the mobile platform moves.
產業別 機電工程業
技術/產品應用範圍 機械業及電子業
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
機器人自走車、工廠移動載具、救援機器人
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
(1) H. I. Lin and Y. C. Liu, ＇＇Global Minimum-Jerk Joint Trajectory 
using Particle Swarm Optimization,＇＇ submitted to Proc. IEEE Int. 
Conf. Robot. Autom., 2011.  
(2) H. I. Lin,Y. C. Liu, and C. L. Chen, ＇＇Robot Arm Motion Learning 
by Imitation,＇＇ submitted to the 8th Asian Control Conference, 2011.
(3) H. I. Lin and Y. C. Hsueh, ＇＇An Automatic Position Measurement 
Approach for Construction Objects with a Regular Shape,＇＇ to be 
submitted to the World Congress on Intelligent Control and Automation 
2011. 
(4) 「應用於移動裝置上的平台平衡結構」，專利申請中。 
(5) 「重新建構物件三維模型的裝置」，專利申請中。 
(6) 「以單一影像擷取裝置提供距離量測的系統及其方法」，專利申請中。 
(7) 林顯易。99年 9 月。導言 智慧機器人之視覺與學習系統技術與現況發展。
出自〝智慧型機器人產業情報報告〞第 46 期。 
(8) 林顯易。99年 9 月。機器人學習與心理學之跨領域整合簡述。出自〝智慧
型機器人產業情報報告〞第 46 期。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
