Abstract 
 
In this study, we address the problem of community extraction and web page ranking 
according to rich social context information. First, we intend to extract popular 
co-cited communities that consist of a set of leaders (i.e., the core set) and a set of 
followers (i.e., the follower set). In our proposed community model, an individual 
may belong to multiple communities as roles of either an initiator or a follower. 
Mining popular co-cited communities is very useful in that one could easily get 
insight to the hot news and trends discussed among members in shared-interest group. 
On the other hand, with the increasing social activities occurred on the internet, 
improve the quality of web search engine with the consideration of social factors 
becomes more important. As most work attempts to improve the precision of search, 
we on the other hand attempt to improve the diversity of search engine by searching 
for resources from user's viewpoint through the user generated data (e.g., social 
bookmarking). In this paper, we demonstrate a novel service which is designed by 
identifying user perspectives. To the best of our knowledge, there is no previous work 
so far. Specifically, we propose two ranking algorithms, ExpertVoteRank and 
RecommendationPageRank, to reveal the diverse information of web pages in the 
social bookmarking sites. The concepts of both algorithms are based on the views of 
users: ExpertVoteRank takes advantage of experts of users, while 
RecommendationPageRank applies recommendations from crowds to web pages.  
We collected about 90 millions data from del.icio.us. Experiments show that both 
algorithms have effectiveness to rank web pages according to the viewpoint of users. 
 
1. Introduction 
 Figure 1. An example of co-cited community 
Although there have been studies conducted on community discovery in social 
networks, most of them focus on subareas in perspective of either data characteristics 
or group characteristics as clustering attributes. 
To begin with, we observe characteristics of a single node such as popularity, 
influence and relative position in social networks. Also, we investigate the 
relationship among individual nodes. For instance, a peer relationship is formulated 
between followers and a hierarchical relationship is formulated between individuals in 
different positions (e.g., a follower and a leader). In real world settings, the 
phenomenon that individuals who tend to look for information provided by 
individuals bookmarked by them in blogspaces characterizes the feature of relative 
positions and the following relation. Moreover, we observe characteristics associated 
with groups. First, we identify the density, topology and relative position associated 
with a group. Second, we formulate the relation between individual groups. Most 
existing work focus on link density associated with a group as a clustering attribute 
which might not be feasible in some real world settings. For example, in blogspace, 
we want to know whether a group of individuals as a whole tends to look for the 
information provided by another group of individuals. If yes, what is the topology of 
the first and the second group? What is the relation between the first and the second 
group? What is the commonality of each group? Under this settings, what is the 
fulfillment of needs indicates the rewards that members received in some way for 
their participation. Inspired by this notion, we define a measurement, followingness, 
to evaluate how much rewards that one received from one another according to 
historical interaction experiences between two arbitrary bloggers. In general, a 
blogger is more likely to feel rewarded if the article that he/she published or replied is 
frequently followed by direct or indirect responses from other bloggers. Finally, 
shared emotional connection is related to the interactions of members in shared events. 
It is characterized by some of the features as follows. As to the quantity of interaction, 
the more people interact, the more likely they are being close. Concerning the quality 
of interaction, the more positive the relationships, the greater the community bond. In 
our setting, a community bond is considered grater if a group of bloggers is 
extensively and strongly involved in shared events. We borrow this idea to define a 
community as a result of co-citation behaviors if members commonly respond to 
articles of the same set of bloggers. 
With different underlying settings, we first propose an algorithm for mining 
popular co-cited communities in a directed social network. Next, an algorithm 
adopting thorough formulation is presented for mining transitive popular co-cited 
communities in a directed and weighted social network.  There are existing works to 
discover perspectives of a group of users with respect to a group of resources (e.g., 
web pages). Traditionally, query words matching is used as the only approach to 
search documents; however, as the amount of data grow rapidly on the internet, 
searching by merely text matching becomes insufficient. PageRank [2] and HITS [3] 
are the typical ranking strategies designed to reveal the utility of hyperlink structures 
among web pages. Specifically, these links determined the authority of web page in 
the viewpoint of web page authors. With the increasing social activities occurred on 
the internet, improve the quality of web search engine with the consideration of social 
Table 1: The titles of the top three results in search of “Rails”: the number in the 
parenthesis means how many users bookmarked this page 
 
 
By examining the social factors on social bookmarking web site, we developed two 
ranking strategies to reveal general user perspectives. A naive strategy to realize 
searching by user perspective is to search by counting the number of bookmarking 
activities with related to a resource (i.e., UserCount). However, UserCount favors the 
resources which are popular in the way that they are frequently bookmarked. Such 
bias raises the problem that less popular web pages will eventually become less and 
less popular due to the lower possibility to be discovered. In addition, bookmarking 
activities performed by authoritative users should be more important than that 
performed by random users. Moreover, a single bookmarking activity performed by 
one user should be considered more important than being one of the bookmarking 
activity performed by the same user. Therefore, we attempt to improve the quality of 
rankings by considering the authority of users and the chances that one user reach to a 
web page. We evaluated our algorithm with about 90 millions data collected from 
about 100 thousands users on del.icio.us.  
In ExpertVoteRank, we design a mechanism to determine the authority of users. Then, 
the bookmarks are ranked according to an aggregated voting result from users. In this 
way, resources which receive votes from highly reputed users (i.e., those who are 
authorities on del.icio.us) become more important. The main part of the ranking 
problem is to determine the user authority. The experiment results show that the 
queries), has been studied in many works [16][17][18]. Both ExportVoteRank and 
RecommendationPageRank are developed based on PageRank. The difference 
between ours and PageRank is that we use information from readers on the web 
instead of web page creaters. The aim of this work is not to improve PageRank in 
terms of searching precision. Instead, our approach focuses on designing a new 
feature for search engines so that users can search for information from different 
perspectives. There are many works [5][19][20] utilize the data in del.icio.us to 
improve ranking web pages. The authors in [5] analyzed data in del.icio.us and 
Hatena Bookmark claimed that social bookmarking can enhance search quality. They 
combined the number of bookmarks of web pages and other features to rank web 
pages. The authors in [19] proposed two algorithms, SocialSimRank and 
SocialPageRank, with data on del.icio.us to improve the web search. Specifically, 
SocialPageRank uses the mutual awareness among users, tags and resources to 
evaluate the static ranking of web pages.  Furthermore, the authors in [20] proposed 
a ranking algorithm, FolkRank, based on PageRank to rank users, tags and resources 
on del.icio.us altogether, and therefore the relative importances between resources are 
not clear. In contrast to these works, our algorithms use different facets to rank web 
pages and focus on the diversity and particular types of user perspective, instead of 
general rankings. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Preliminaries are given in Section 3. The 
proposed community extraction algorithm and ranking strategies are illustrated in 
Section 4. Performance evaluation of the proposed ranking strategies is reported in 
Section 5. Finally, we draw a conclusion in Section 5.  
3. Preliminary 
I. Mining Communities 
membership in SOC are characterized by the co-indegree of a core set. Intuitively, a 
core set directly followed by a considerable amount of followers represents higher 
popularity in terms of membership. 
Definition 3: Followingness 
Followingness measures the willingness of one individual to either directly or latently 
follow another in a blogspace. In other words, followingness is determined by the 
influence that one can exert to within a community. We observe two aspects that 
affect the strength of followingness between a pair of nodes: (i) topic context and (ii) 
temporal context. We give an intuitive illustration of how followingness of a pair of 
nodes is related to these two aspects. Figure 2 shows three bloggers ni, nj, and nk 
along with the followingness between them. According to historical access data, 
articles a1 and a2 are successively accessed by blogger ni and then blogger nj, whereas 
articles a3 and a4 are commonly accessed by blogger nj and nk. Intuitively, the strength 
of followingness between ni and nj is equal to that between nj and nk in terms of topic 
context. However, suppose the access time of ni and nj on articles {a1, a2} is far apart 
from each other in comparison with that of nj and nk on article {a3, a4}. The strength 
of followingness between nj and nk turns out to be greater than that between ni and nj 
due to a closer relationship in temporal context. This suggests that one's willingness to 
follow another is positively correlated to commonality in topic context and negatively 
correlated to the time span in between. In cases that the blogger ni who looks for the 
information provided by bloggers nj is more likely to look for the information 
provided by blogger nk. This introduces the indirect following flow from blogger ni to 
blogger nk. Hence, we identify the willingness of following between any individuals 
where transitive transfer is possible in a weighted directed social network. Beside, 
note that the followingness between two individuals is asymmetric. 
between nodes are tags. For example, John can bookmark the URL 
http://www.w3.org/ with tags such as ``W3C'' and ``standards'' in a social 
bookmarking site. Then, we could view that there is a user interested in the resource 
(i.e., http://www.w3.org/) and annotates this resource as ``W3C'' and ``standards''. 
Consequently, from the social bookmarking sites, the perspective from users can be 
obtained. For example, how important of one resource from user perspective is easily 
determined from the social bookmarking sites. Since a social bookmark sites provides 
three types of data (i.e., U, T and R), we could define the relationships as follows: 
Definition 6 UTR, URt and UR 
UTR = { (u, t, r) |  u  U, t  T, r  R and u bookmarked r with t } 
URt = { (u, r) |  (u, t, r)  UTR, t  T }. 
UR = { (u, r) |  t  T such that (u, t, r)  UTR }. 
 
Specifically, UR is the projection of UTR on the attributes users and resources, while 
URt is the subset of UR and contains the data related to tag t only.  
 
Figure 3. Relationship in the bookmarking site: a bipartite graph for users and 
resources 
4. Mining and Ranking Communities 
I. Ranking Resources 
In order to enhance the web page ranking quality, we proposed social ranking 
algorithms. Four social factors are considered including (i) user centrality, (ii) user 
4. Network relationship resembles the endorsement between web pages on the internet. 
Hence, we apply PageRank on the social network to evaluate the authority degree of 
each user. Let pr(u) be the PageRank of user u, as the random surfer model of 
PageRank, pr(u) can be viewed as the probability of visiting the bookmarks u when 
browsing the pages of users' bookmarks where one page contains many URLs 
bookmarked by an user. After computing pr(u), the voting strength of a relevant user u 
is computed by dividing user u's centrality. Finally, the ExpertVoteRank of resource r 
is computed by aggregating the voting strength of all relevant users. The voting 
formula is as equation 1. 
 
Figure 4. An example of social network among users (dark nodes) and the 
corresponding resources (light nodes). 
                       (1) 
, where UC(u) is the number of resources bookmarked by user u 
 Community-Aware Ranking Strategy 
ExpertVoteRank considers user centrality and authority. We attempt to incorporate 
user-tag affinity into our current framework further. The purpose of this setting is to 
provide a topic-sensitive ranking framework so that users can explore information 
driven by their own perspective.  
The entire ranking process consists of five steps as shown in algorithm 2. Given the 
keywords we first identify the perspective by discovering tags related to the given 
keywords (i.e., perspective identification). A perspective is basically formed by given 
maxx  Sx, y  Sy conf(x, y). Then p(Q) will be normalized such that  tQ p(t)2 = 1. For 
example, suppose a user queries the perspective of "science" and issue the query Sx = 
{science, math}. The normalized vector, p(Q), is regarded as the possibility 
distribution of tags that a scientists uses. 
 
Our next step is to find relevant users whose tagging behavior is alike the queried 
perspective. As the vector model used in the field of information retrieval, users and 
documents which are featured with keywords can be represented by keyword vectors. 
Each dimension of a vector represents a tag in tag space. Let each user be a tag vector 
denoted by P(u) such that the value of each dimension is the tagging frequency of the 
corresponding tag used by user u. Then, we normalize the vector P(u) such that 
\Sigma_{t \in T} P(t)^2 = 1. Once users and the query are represented in tag space, we 
can compute the similarity between each user and the query. In this work, we use 
cosine value of a pair of vectors as the similarity measurement (i.e., similarity(P(Q), 
P(u)) =P(Q)  P(u) / |P(Q)|   |P(u)|). 
The following procedure of CARank computation resembles ExpertVoteRank except 
the last step, voting computation. In addition to user centrality and user authority, 
CARank also consider topic sensitivity in comparison with ExpertVoteRank. The 
ranking strategy considering topic-sensitivity and sociality is as equation 2. 
                (2) 
II. Mining Approximate Co-Cited Communities 
 Figure 6. An example of transitive popular co-cited community 
TACC mining process is divided into three phases. First, the given blogspace is 
transformed into a transactional database. Second, we discover an initial community 
structure with the help of frequent closed itemset mining technique. After that, valid 
transitive popular co-cited communities are obtained from the initial community 
structures through a level-wise identification manner. 
Algorithm 4 shows the algorithm for mining TACCs. We initiate a graph where nodes 
represent bloggers, edges represent following relationship between directed connected 
nodes and the weight of each edge indicates following strength (refer to as 
followingness). Then, at each level, we (i) discover ACCs and (ii) construct a 
summarized graph. To achieve this, we will present issues we addressed in this study. 
To being with, we introduce the idea of followingness for converting a blogspace into 
a directed and weighted network. With our underlying assumption, we can define an 
iterative equation for estimating the strength of followingness from an arbitrary node 
in the network to a core set. Let the access history of ni be Ai = {<am, tim> | ni accesses 
article am at time tim}. Suppose the temporally valid common accesses for ni and nj to 
be Aij = {am | am  Ai, am  Aj and tim  tjm}, following shows the equations for 
calculating the followingness between a pair of direct linked nodes and a pair of 
indirect linked nodes respectively. 
core set) is derived by summing up the followingness of all followers within the
community. 
 
 
fetched where the number of users is 165,002, the number of tags is 1,925,850, the 
number of resources is 11,877,262. The size of UTR is 90,406,610 and the size of 
|UR| is 28,902,873. 
In order to verify the utility of each ranking, both UTR and UR were separated into a 
training dataset and a test dataset. The training dataset contains data before 1 Jan. 
2007 and data after that is in test dataset. In UTR, the training dataset contains 
53,432,868 tuples and test dataset contains 36,973,742 tuples. The training dataset 
was used to compute the rankings of each algorithm. Besides, we used Google 
Toolbar API to fetch the PageRank from Google in July 2007; the PageRank values 
are simplified to integers from zero to ten by Google. 
In addition to PageRank, UserCount and EVRank, we also implemented HITS for a 
complete comparison. The idea of hubs and authorities resembles the idea of 
subscriber and resources in the model of UR. Suppose each tuple of UR, (u, r), is a 
direct edge from the subscriber u to the resource r, the goal of HITS is to determine 
the authorities of resources. Only resources with more than ten bookmarks were 
evaluated. Resources with higher values are more important in all ranking methods. 
 Evaluation Criteria 
In order to evaluate the utility of the proposed rankings, two criteria is proposed: 
importance and diversity. 
Importance: Valuable pages are considered important for users. Hence valuable 
pages should be bookmarked in the future with higher possibility. 
Diversity: In principle the ranking results generated from general user perspective 
should be different from the existing ones generated from auther perspective. 
We used the typical evaluation metrics: the precision at K(P@10) and the mean 
average precision (MAP) to evaluate the proposed ranking strategy. P@K is the 
precision of the top K search result. The average precision (AP) is defined as: 
 Figure 8. Mean average precision for all rankings 
 
Figure 9. Precision at 10 for all rankings 
Secondly, we measure the performance of diversity of proposed ranking strategies. 
We applied Kendall's coefficient of concordance (X,Y) [7] to evaluate the degree of 
difference between two ranking results [7]. Given two ranking results over n 
resources, R1 and R2, Kendall's coefficient of coefficient of concordance is computed 
as equation 7. Approach as to compute (X,Y): 
reduce the identification quality of relevant users and the search quality. 
Table 3. Top ten related tags of “science” 
 
6. Conclusion 
In this study, we address the problem of community extraction and web page ranking 
according to rich social context information.  
First, we intend to extract popular co-cited communities that consist of a set of leaders 
(i.e., the core set) and a set of followers (i.e., the follower set). In our proposed 
community model, an individual may belong to multiple communities as roles of 
either an initiator or a follower. Mining popular co-cited communities is very useful in 
that one could easily get insight to the hot news and trends discussed among members 
in shared-interest group.  Second, with the increasing social activities occurred on 
the internet, improve the quality of web search engine with the consideration of social 
factors becomes more important. As most work attempts to improve the precision of 
search, we on the other hand attempt to improve the diversity of search engine by 
searching for resources from user's viewpoint through the user generated data (e.g., 
social bookmarking). In this paper, we demonstrate a novel service which is designed 
by identifying user perspectives. To the best of our knowledge, there is no previous 
work so far. Specifically, we propose two ranking algorithms, ExpertVoteRank and 
RecommendationPageRank, to reveal the diverse information of web pages in the 
social bookmarking sites. The concepts of both algorithms are based on the views of 
users: ExpertVoteRank takes advantage of experts of users, while 
RecommendationPageRank applies recommendations from crowds to web pages.  
blogs. In Hypertext and Hypermedia, pages 11-22, 2006. 
[11]. K. Ishida. Extracting latent weblog communities: A partitioning algorithm for 
bipartite graphs. Workshop on the Weblogging Ecosystem: Aggregation, Analysis 
and Dynamics, 2005. 
[12]. Y. R. Lin, H. Sundaram, Y. Chi, J. Tatemura, and B. Tseng. Discovery of blog 
communities based on mutual awareness. Workshop on the Weblogging 
Ecosystem: Aggregation, Analysis and Dynamics, 2006. 
[13]. M. McGlohon, J. Leskovec, C. Faloutsos, M. Hurst, and N. Glance. Finding 
patterns in blog shapes and blog evolution. In ICWSM, 2007. 
[14]. B. Tseng, J. Tatemura, and Y. Wu. Tomographic clustering to visualize blog 
communities as mountain views. Workshop on the Weblogging Ecosystem: 
Aggregation, Analysis and Dynamics, 2005. 
[15]. X. Li, B. Liu, and P. S. Yu. Discovering overlapping communities of named 
entities. In PKDD, pages 593-600, 2006. 
[16]. A. Z. Broder, R. Lempel, F. Maghoul, and J. Pedersen. Efficient PageRank 
approximation via graph aggregation. Inf. Retr., 9(2):123-138, 2006. 
[17]. Taher H. Haveliwala. Topic-sensitive PageRank. In WWW, pages 517-526, 2002. 
[18]. F. McSherry. A uniform approach to accelerated PageRank computation. In 
WWW, pages 575-582, 2005. 
[19]. S. Bao, X. Wu, B. F., G.. Xue, Z. Su, and Y. Yu. Optimizing web search using 
social annotations. In WWW, pages 501-510, 2007. 
[20]. A. Hotho, R. Jaschke, C. Schmitz, and G. Stumme. Information retrieval in 
folksonomies: search and ranking. In ESWC, pages 411-426, 2006. 
表 Y04 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
Mobile Data Management 為行動資料處理領域中重要國際會議，此會議每年的論文接受率
均在25%上下，會議進行的方式為論文的發表，及多場演講。今年的會議地點在中國北京舉
行，本年度為期四天的會議，其議程第一天為 workshop 的論文發表，共約 150 人參與。
其後為正式會議的論文發表，單一 session 進行，並穿插多場的 tutorials。我們的論文需要
展示我們所開發的系統，論文題目為” CarWeb: A Traffic Data Collection Platform”。因此，
在論文的發表與討論中，獲得建設性的意見與評論。除了參與論文的發表外，會議單位也
安排相關的活動，供來自不同各地的研究學者參與討論與交流的機會。此外，2009 年 MDM 
國際會議將在台灣舉辦，我們在會場大量的宣傳會議的相關資訊，並廣邀全世界的學者與
會。 
二、與會心得 
本年度的會議所收錄的論文均為最頂尖之研究成果，且演講的安排上均邀請相關的大師進
行精彩的演講。在今年的 MDM workshop 上，本人也主辦了一個 workshop，其主題為 The 
2nd International Workshop on Privacy-Aware Location-based Mobile Services (PALMS)，因
此，此次的行動資料會議我們積極的參與相關的學術活動，包含擔任 session chairs 等。 
