   2
acclimated sludges were inoculated in the first four columns, and aerobic acclimated sludges 
were inoculated in the last three columns to provide microbial consortia for contaminant 
biodegradation. Simulated PCE-contaminated groundwater with a flow rate of 0.25 L/day was 
pumped into this system. Effluent samples from each column were analyzed for PCE and its 
degradation byproducts. Results show that up to 99% of PCE removal efficiency was obtained in 
this passive system. Thus, the biobarrier treatment scheme has the potential to be developed into 
an environmentally and economically acceptable remediation technology for the in situ treatment 
of PCE-contaminated aquifer.     
Key words: tetrachloroethylene, reductive dechlorination, cometabolism, groundwater 
remediation, biobarrier 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 Groundwater at many existing and former industrial sites and disposal areas is contaminated 
by halogenated organic compounds that were released into the environment. The chlorinated 
solvent tetrachloroethylene (PCE) is one of the most ubiquitous of these compounds. The 
maximum contaminant level (MCL) for PCE is 5 µg/L (Federal Register, 1989; Barbee, 1994; 
EPA, 1998; Bedient et al., 1999). One cost-effective approach for remediation of contaminated 
aquifers that is attracting increased attention is the installation of permeable reactive zones or 
barriers within aquifers. As contaminated groundwater moves under natural or induced hydraulic 
gradients through a permeable reactive zone, the contaminants are scavenged or degraded, and 
uncontaminated groundwater emerges from the downgradient side of the reactive zone (Kao and 
Borden, 1997; Williamson et al., 2000; Kiilerich et al., 2000; Mcnab and Ruiz; 2000; Kao et al., 
2001). The passive barrier concept has several advantages over other remediation technologies 
   4
 Biological sludge cakes are wastes from domestic wastewater treatment. They have the 
following characteristics that make them good candidates for this type of application: (1) they 
are rich in carbon, an essential energy source for biodegradation; (2) they have the potential to 
exhibit sufficient carbon bioavailability for reductive dechlorination to occur; and (3) they are 
relatively inexpensive.  
 Based on the above discussions, development of a biologically active biobarrier system 
containing sludge cake and oxygen releasing material layers would be a feasible alternative to 
enhance the in situ bioremediation of PCE cost-effectively. The sludge cake and oxygen 
releasing materials can be placed in remediation wells or permeable trenches. Figures 1a and 1b 
present the schematic diagram of this proposed system, which is installed perpendicular to the 
groundwater flow direction. Substrates and oxygen released from the biobarrier system could 
cause PCE and its daughter compounds biodegradation downgradient of the barriers. 
 The principal objective of this effort was to develop a cost-effective and passive 
groundwater treatment technology to bioremediate groundwater contaminated by PCE. In this 
study, batch experiments were conducted to design and identify the components of organic-
releasing and oxygen-releasing materials, which could continuously release biodegradable 
organics and oxygen at controlled rates, respectively. A column experiment was then performed 
to evaluate the feasibility and potential of this proposed biobarrier system containing the 
developed organic-releasing and oxygen-releasing materials to biotransform PCE effectively. 
 
MATERIALS AND METHODS 
Batch Experiments 
   6
soil. Instead of measuring oxygen adsorption, oxygen release was measured (Page et al., 1982; 
Kao, 1993). In this experiment, an enclosed reactor (1-L glass bottle) was used to measure the 
oxygen release based on pressure change. Each reactor contained 250 g of cubes and 500 mL of 
deionized (DI) water. The control bottles were prepared without the addition of oxygen-releasing 
cubes. Oxygen release from the cubes caused a change in pressure that was recorded by a 
manometer. Measurements of change in water height were taken each day then the reactor was 
vented. The released oxygen weight was calculated using the equation described in Kao (1993). 
Results were recorded as mg O2/d/g of cube versus time.  
 Fill-and-draw batch experiments were conducted to evaluate the organic release rates from 
the designed organic-releasing material. The fill and draw experiments were used to simulate the 
one-dimensional continuous-flow system. The oxygen-releasing batch reactor contained 500 mL 
of DI water and 250 g of organic-releasing materials. The DI water in the two reactors was 
replaced daily. The released organic substrates from organic-releasing materials in the solution 
of the reactor were represented as chemical oxygen demand (COD) equivalent. Results were 
recorded as mg oxygen or COD/d/g of material versus time.  
Column Experiment 
 A laboratory-scale biobarrier system (biotic system) was developed using a series of 
continuous-flow glass columns: the first soil column, an organic-releasing material (sludge cake) 
column (2nd column), two consecutive soil columns (3rd and 4th columns), an oxygen-releasing 
material column (5th column), two other consecutive soil columns (7th and 8th columns). The 
glass columns were 30 cm long with an inside diameter of 4.8 cm. This first soil column was 
used to equilibrate the feed solution with the aquifer materials and evaluate the biodegradability 
of PCE without the supplement of other carbon sources. The organic-releasing column was filled 
   8
0.25; CoCl2.6H2O, 0.25; CuCl2.2H2O, 0.25; ZnCl2, 0.25; NH4VO3, 0.1. The pH of this buffer 
solution was 7.5. The synthetic groundwater was first autoclaved then cooled under a N2/CO2 
(90:10) atmosphere to deplete the residual oxygen. 
 The anaerobic feed solution and PCE stock solution were continuously pumped into the 
columns with an upflow mode under saturated conditions by peristaltic and syringe pumps. The 
PCE concentration entering the first soil column was approximately 1,011 µg/L. Three pore 
volumes of the feed solution were flushed through the system at the beginning of the experiment 
to equilibrate the system and remove residual oxygen in the void spaces; then PCE was mixed 
with the feed solution for the remaining of the experimental period. Based on the average 
porosities in the soil columns (0.3), organic-releasing material column (0.53), and oxygen-
releasing material columns (0.54), column volume (543 mL), and flow rate (250 mL/d), the 
calculated hydraulic retention times for the soil columns, organic-releasing material column, and 
the oxygen-releasing material column were approximately 0.65, 1.15, and 1.17 days, 
respectively. The empty bed contact time for these columns was 2.2 days.   
 A control experiment was also operated to evaluate the PCE decrease by abiotic processes. 
This control system was a duplicate of the column experiment described above. However, the 
feed solution of the control system was autoclaved and contained 250 mg/L HgCl2 and 500 mg/L 
NaN3 to assure the death of the microorganisms. Moreover, the soils and inocula used for the 
control group were also autoclaved before use.  
 The column system was operated for 3 months in the dark at the ambient groundwater 
temperature (~23°C). The effluent from each column was analyzed for PCE, TCE, cis-DCE, VC, 
ETH, ethane, pH, DO, and COD. An Orion DO meter (Model 840) and Hach titration method 
(Hach Co.) were used for DO measurements. COD analysis was performed in accordance with 
   10
regression lines, the regression lines were relatively flat, and thus, the release rates were 
relatively constant. Therefore, the oxygen and COD release rates were obtained using the median 
values of two regression lines for the periods from 40 to 100 and 50 to 100 days, respectively, 
when the releasing rates reached more stabilized conditions (Figure 3). The oxygen and COD 
release rates used for the following column experiment were 0.0368 mg O2/d/g of oxygen-
releasing material and 0.0416 mg COD/d/g of organic-releasing material, respectively. Results 
indicate that the designed organic-releasing material and oxygen-releasing material would be 
able to release organic substrate and oxygen for more than 3 months. 
 
Column Experiment 
 In the column experiment, approximately 500 g of organic-releasing material and oxygen-
releasing material cubes were placed in the second and fifth columns, respectively. Thus, 
approximately 20.8 mg COD-equivalent organics and 18 mg oxygen could be released each day 
from the organic-releasing material column and oxygen-releasing material column. Because the 
flow rate of the system was 250 mL/d, the average COD and oxygen concentrations in the 
second and fifth column effluents would be 83.2 and 72 mg/L, respectively. Since the pure 
oxygen solubility in water is approximately 40 mg/L, the extra oxygen bubbles would flow to the 
downgradient columns (the sixth and seventh columns). Theoretically, it would require only a 4-
mg COD equivalent of primary substrate to convert 1 mg of PCE to ETH (Wu et al., 1998). 
Therefore, the continuously released substrate from the organic-releasing material column would 
be enough to biodegrade PCE with the concentration of 1 mg/L for a long period of time.  
 The column experiment was operated for 3 months. Column influent and effluent samples 
were collected and analyzed for PCE, degradation byproducts, and indicating parameters (e.g., 
pH, DO, and COD). Figure 4a presents the variations in pH measurements in seven column 
   12
declined DO measurements in the last three columns also indicate the occurrence of 
biodegradation, which caused the consumption of DO values. Figure 4c presents COD 
concentrations from the second to seventh column effluents. COD values varied from 121 to 69 
mg/L in the organic-releasing material column due to the release of organic substrates from the 
sludge cakes. The observed COD values in the third and fourth columns varied from 118 to 59 
and 117 to 35 mg/L, respectively. The observed COD values in the sixth and seventh columns 
varied from 108 to 29 and 103 to 21 mg/L, respectively. The decrease in COD values from the 
second to the seventh columns indicates the occurrence of anaerobic and aerobic biodegradation 
of the released organic substrates. The biodegradation of the released organic substrates would 
have the potential to cause the occurrence of reductive dechlorinating and aerobic cometabolic 
processes. 
 Figure 5 presents the concentrations of PCE and its degradation byproducts versus time in 
the first to the third column effluents. Results show that no significant PCE removal was 
observed in the first column effluents indicating that PCE can not be biodegraded without the 
supplement of other carbon sources. Due to the high pH effects, only trace PCE degradation was 
observed in the second column (organic-releasing material column) till the end of the 
experiment. No PCE degradation byproducts (e.g., TCE, cis-DCE, VC, ETH) were detected in 
the first two column effluents. After the decrease in pH, biodegradation of PCE occurred in the 
third column. The high pH in the early operational period might inhibit the bacterial activity, and 
cause the significant lag periods in the third column. Concentrations of PCE in the third and 
fourth columns reached a quasi-steady state and remained constant after 40 to 50 days. Table 1 
lists the average concentrations of PCE, PCE degradation byproducts, pH, DO, and COD in the 
system influent and effluent of each column. Averages are reported for the period from day 50, 
   14
  Figure 7 presents the concentrations of PCE and its degradation byproducts versus time in 
the fifth column effluents. In the fifth column, the first appearance of TCE, cis-DCE, VC, and 
ETH from column effluents were on day 10, 26, 26, and 34, respectively. For the period from 
day 50 to 90, approximately 21 µg/L of PCE, 82 µg/L of TCE, 150 µg/L of cis-DCE, 168 µg/L 
of VC, and 11 µg/L of ETH were detected (Table 1). Results were similar to the observed results 
from the fourth column (Table 1). This indicates that the high pH effects in the fifth column 
inhibited the bacterial growth and caused the significantly low biodegradation rates.  
 Figures 8 and 9 present the concentrations of PCE and its degradation byproducts versus 
time in the sixth and seventh column effluents, respectively. After the decrease in pH, aerobic 
biodegradation of TCE and its byproducts occurred in the sixth and seventh columns. No 
significant PCE removal was observed in the sixth and seventh columns. This indicates that PCE 
can not be biodegraded under aerobic conditions. Approximately 16 µg/L of PCE, 18 µg/L of 
TCE, 62 µg/L of cis-DCE, 51 µg/L of VC, and 10 µg/L of ETH were detected in the sixth 
column from day 50 to 90. Approximately 11 µg/L of PCE, 3 µg/L of TCE, 21 µg/L of cis-DCE, 
17 µg/L of VC, and 8 µg/L of ETH were detected in the seventh column from day 50 to 90. No 
ethane was detected in 6th and 7th column effluents. 
 The average PCE removal efficiencies between the influent and each column effluent  in the 
second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh columns were 3%, 57.1%, 97.6%, 97.9%, 98.4%, 
and 98.9%, respectively (Table 1). Therefore, a total of 98.9% of PCE was removed via this 
biobarrier system. The major part of the PCE was removed in the third and fourth columns under 
the anaerobic conditions. Based on the observed reaction trends, complete PCE and its 
byproducts removal via dechlorination processes in this biobarrier is possible if sufficient 
reaction time or extended reaction distance is provided.   
   16
 In this study, a passive two-stage biobarrier system was developed to remediate PCE-
contaminated groundwater. The system contained organic-releasing material and oxygen-organic 
material, which were developed in batch experiments to continuously release biodegradable 
organic substrate and oxygen into the groundwater, respectively. The developed system was 
evaluated in a one-dimensional continuous-flow column experiment. Conclusions of this study 
include the following:  
1. Both organic-releasing material and oxygen-releasing material can be prepared easily from 
a mixture of sludge cake or calcium peroxide, cement, sand, fly ash, and water. The average 
COD equivalent and oxygen release rates were 0.0416 and 0.0368 mg/d/g of material, 
respectively during the 100-day batch experiment period. 
2. Based on the results from the column experiment, the designed organic-releasing material 
and oxygen-releasing material could release significant amount of organic substrate and 
oxygen continuously during the 3-month operational period. Thus, frequent replacement of 
this designed material is not necessary. However, replacement of the material at 4 to 5-
month intervals might be required to maintain desired COD and oxygen release rates. 
3. Occurrence of reductive dechlorination in the first layer of the biobarrier system can be 
verified by (1) 97.6% of PCE depletion; (2) production of PCE daughter compounds (e.g., 
TCE, cis-DCE, VC, ETH); and (3) decrease in COD concentrations in the two soil columns 
following organic-releasing material column. Thus, the released organics from the organic-
releasing material column can serve as primary substrates and cause the reductive 
dechlorination of PCE. 
4. Biodegradation of PCE daughter compounds in the second layer of the biobarrier system 
can be verified by (1) no significant PCE biodegradation in the second layer; (2) depletion 
   18
REFERENCES 
APHA, American Public Health Association, 1995. Standard Methods for the Examination of 
Water and Waste Water, 19th ed. APHA-AWWA-WEF, Washington, DC. 
Barbee, G.C., 1994. Fate of chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons in the vadose zone and ground 
water. Ground Water Monitoring and Remediation 11, 120-128. 
Bedient, P.B., Rifai, H.S., Newell, C.J., 1999. Ground Water Contamination – Transport and 
Remediation. PTR Prentice-Hall, Inc., New Jersey. 
Bradley, P.M. and Chapelle, F.H., 1996. Anaerobic mineralization of vinyl chloride in Fe(III)-
reducing, aquifer sediments. Environ. Sci. Technol. 30, 2084-2086. 
Borden, R.C., Goin, R.T., and Kao, C.M., 1997. Control of BTEX migration using a biologically 
enhanced permeable barrier. Ground Wat. Monit. Remediation 17, 70-80. 
DiStefano, T.D. and Baral, R., 2000. PCE dechlorination with complex electron donors. In: 
Bioremediation and Phytoremediation of Chlorinated and Recalcitrant Compounds. Edited by 
Wickramanayake, G.B., Gavaskar, A.R., Alleman, B.C., and Magar V.S., Battelle Press, 
Columbus, Ohio, pp.55-62. 
EPA, US Environmental Protection Agency, 1998. Technical Protocal for Evaluating Natural 
Attenuation of Chlorinated Solvents in Ground Water. EPA/600/R-98/128, Washington DC. 
Fam, S.A., Findlay, M., Fogel, S., Prielli, T., and Sullivan, T., 2000. Full-scale anaerobic 
bioremediation using acetate and lactate electron donors. In: Bioremediation and 
Phytoremediation of Chlorinated and Recalcitrant Compounds. Edited by Wickramanayake, 
G.B., Gavaskar, A.R., Alleman, B.C., and Magar, V.S., Battelle Press, Columbus, Ohio, pp.23-
30. 
   20
McCarty, P.L., 1997. Biotic and abiotic transformations of chlorinated solvents in ground water, 
In: Proc. of the Symposium on Natural Attenuation of Chlorinated Organics in Ground Water, 
Washington, DC., pp.7-11. 
Mcnab, W.W. and Ruiz, R., 2000. In-situ destruction of chlorinated hydrocarbons in 
groundwater using catalytic reductive dehalogenation in a reactive well: testing and 
operational experiences. Environ. Sci. Technol. 34, 149-153. 
Mohn, W.W. and Tiedje, J.M., 1992. Microbial reductive dehalogenation. Microbiol. Rev. 56, 
482-507. 
Page, A.L., Miller, R.H., and Keevey, D.R., 1982. Methods of Soil Analysis. Part 2, 2nd ed. 
Chap. 41. Am. Soc. of Agro., Inc., Madison, WI. 
Williamson, D., Hoenke, K., Wyatt, J., Davis, A., and Anderson, J., 2000. Construction of a 
funnel-and-gate treatment system for pesticide-contaminated groundwater. In: Chemical 
Oxidation and Reactive Barriers. Edited by Wickramanayake, G.B., Gavaskar, A.R., and Chen, 
A.S.C., Battelle Press, Columbus, Ohio, pp.257-264. 
Wu, W.M., Nye, J., Jain, M.K., and Hickey, R.F., 1998. Anaerobic dechlorination of 
trichloroethylene to ethylene using complex organic materials, Wat. Res. 32, 1445-1454. 
Zenker, M.J., Borden, R.C., Barlaz, M.A., Lieberman, M.T., and Lee, M.D., 2000. Insoluble 
substrates for reductive dehalogenation in permeable reactive barriers. In: Bioremediation and 
Phytoremediation of Chlorinated and Recalcitrant Compounds. Edited by Wickramanayake, 
G.B., Gavaskar, A.R., Alleman, B.C., and Magar V.S., Battelle Press, Columbus, Ohio, pp.47-
54. 
