ENGLISH ABSTRACT 
This study developed a seismic protective table for the ion implanter used in the 
semiconductor industry to enhance the seismic performance of the ion implanter and to reduce 
the risk of earthquake-induced loss. The full-scale seismic protective table composed of steel 
plates, H beams, inclined circular columns, level adjusting mechanism and base plates, was 
designed and manufactured in accordance with the dimension of the VIISta 810EPH ion 
implanter to resist the bi-directional seismic forces. Moreover, this study adopted a cohesive 
visco-elastic high polymer material as the high-voltage power insulator of the ion implanter. The 
insulation capacity of this VE material has been verified to be over 50kV, which helps to resolve 
both the seismic protection and electric insulation problems of the ion implanter.  This study 
conducted a series of seismic performance tests of the seismic protective table to verify its control 
performance. The test results in this study show that good reduction of at least 37% in peak 
acceleration and 42% in rms acceleration has been achieved when the tool is implemented with 
seismic protective table. In addition, at least 63% reduction of displacement has also been 
achieved, indicating that the seismic protective table can effectively control the displacement 
response of the tool to prevent the damage of the tool due to the excessive deformation of the 
insulator underneath the tool. Furthermore, the equivalent frequency of the tool implemented with 
seismic protective table increases from 3.82Hz to 8.52Hz, demonstrating that the seismic 
protective table can greatly enhance the stiffness of the ion implanter and assure the integrality of 
the insulator. Similarly, the equivalent damping ratio of the table-controlled system increases 
from 5.51% to 7.67%, indicating that the VE material adopted in this study can not only insulate 
against the high voltage but also has the effectiveness of seismic energy dissipation to further 
suppress the vibration of the tool.  
Key words：ion implanter, seismic protective device, viscoelastic material, insulation, shaking 
table 
 
人才培育成果說明： 
1. 瞭解高科技廠房無塵室之運作概況； 
2. 掌握高科技產業典型離子植入機之構造型式； 
3. 陪養高科技製程設備防震系統之設計與研發能力； 
