  2
Introduction 
The early years of the twenty-first century have been characterized by global competition, market 
liberalization, devolution, and a revolution in information technology—all of which have brought 
unprecedented changes to government organizations and their employees. The need to reform public 
services to meet these new demands has led to a call for the “reinvention of government” (Osborne & 
Gaebler, 1992). Managers in the public sector are therefore under constant pressure to improve the 
performance of their organizations. They are expected to satisfy the various stakeholders, increase the 
efficiency, effectiveness and quality of services, achieve organizational goals, and establish a culture of 
continuous improvement. 
The past two decades of administrative reform and modernization have significantly transformed 
entities in the public sector in developed countries from being rigid inward-looking institutions to more 
outward-looking organizations that place the citizen at the heart of services (Kickert et al., 1997; DeLeon 
& Denhardt, 2000). Indeed, the public sector has undergone profound changes characterized by 
organizational restructuring and the reformulation of operational principles. However, many public 
organizations continue to experience difficulties in meeting the demands of a better-educated public in a 
fast-changing social environment. A significant problem is the outdated bureaucratic model of many 
public organizations—which was developed in a slower-paced society during a time of mass markets. In 
this model, those at the top of the pyramid do not have enough information to make informed decisions 
(Osborne & Gaebler, 1992). Consequently, the management of organizational change in public-sector 
entities has become a great challenge for politicians and governmental officials. 
In an attempt to respond this challenge, public-service managers have turned to various approaches 
and tools practised in the private sector. These include total quality management (TQM), business process 
reengineering (BPR), strategic management, benchmarking, strategic management initiatives, employee 
empowerment, re-engineering processes and technologies, downsizing, managing costs, privatization, and 
so on (Rosenhoover & Kuhn, 1996; Holloway et al., 1999). However, there is a relative lack of evidence 
of the effectiveness of such reinvention efforts in the public sector (Kettl & DiIulio, 1995; Kamensky, 
1996; Durst & Newell, 1999). It is found that the concept of ‘change management’ has become prevalent 
in private organizations, little attention has been given to how such change management can be applied to 
nonprofit organizations, such as those in the public sector. Tsoukas & Chia (2002) have noted that little is 
known about how change is actually accomplished in the public sector, and how the micro-processes of 
change work in the sector. In assessing such efforts, it is important to recognize that there are significant 
environmental and organizational differences between private businesses and public-sector organizations 
(Rainey, 1983; Bozeman & Bretschneider, 1986; Bozeman, 1988; Bretschneider, 1990; Coursey & 
Bozeman, 1990; Bretschneider & Wittmer, 1993). The lessons learned from applying change-management 
methodologies, tools, and techniques in the private sector might not therefore be transferable to the public 
sector without appropriate adaptation (Pearce et al., 1985; Bretschneider & Wittmer, 1993). In making 
such adaptations, important distinctive features of the public sector that should be considered include: (i) 
the absence of market incentives; (ii) the existence of multiple (sometimes conflicting) goals; (iii) the 
emphasis on fairness and justice as guiding principles; and (iv) a complex political context involving a 
broader range of constituent groups, higher levels of accountability, and more rules, regulations, and 
constraints (Robertson & Seneviratne, 1995). 
As a result of empirical research of service activities in Taiwanese public agencies (Chen et al., 
2005), at least four significant performance gaps can be identified in the design and management of the 
public-service system—(i) a gap between customer identification and surveys of customers’ needs; (ii) a 
gap between customer needs and service-system design; (iii) a gap between service-system design and 
service delivery; and (iv) a gap between service delivery and service recovery (see Figure 1). The bridging 
of these gaps is an important issue in any examination of public-sector reform. The present study proposes 
a customer-orientated model for such organizational change. The model consists of three phases: 
evaluation, re-evaluation, and action (ERA). 
The balance of the paper is arranged as follows. After this introduction, the paper undertakes a 
literature review of change management in public services, and provides illustrations of performance gaps 
in public-services systems. A conceptual framework is then presented to demonstrate how the ERA 
change model was developed. Finally, an empirical case study is presented to demonstrate the 
implementation of the ERA change model. The chosen public organization for this empirical case study is 
  4
from the status quo; (ii) decreasing the restraining forces that hinder movement from the existing 
equilibrium; and/or (iii) a combination of the two. 
The second model—action research—refers to a systematic collection of data, followed by the 
selection of an appropriate change action on the basis of an analysis of the collected data (Shani & 
Pasmore, 1985). The significance of this approach lies in its reliance on a scientific methodology for 
managing planned change. The process of action research consists of five steps: diagnosis, analysis, 
feedback, action, and evaluation. These steps closely parallel the scientific method. The change agent, 
often an outside consultant in action research, begins by gathering information about problems, concerns, 
and required changes from members of the organization. 
The third model—organizational development—is difficult to define as single concept. Rather, the 
term is used to encompass a collection of planned-change interventions built on humanistic-democratic 
values that seek to improve organizational effectiveness and employee well-being (Porras & Robertson, 
1992; Nicholson, 1998; Farias & Johnson, 2000). In most organizational-development efforts, these values 
include: respect for people, trust and support, power equalization, confrontation, and participation 
(Robbins, 2003). 
In addition, according to a model of organizational and individual change proposed by Gustafson et 
al. (1992), successful change occurs when a combination of seven stages—(i) creating a tension for 
change; (ii) seeing continuous quality improvement (CQI) as a uniquely superior alternative; (iii) building 
social support; (iv) skills and self-efficacy; (v) commitment and plan to change; (vi) beginning the change; 
and (vii) monitoring and feedback. 
Performance gaps in public-service systems 
Chen et al. (2004, 2005) used a customer-oriented service-enhancement system (COSES) as a conceptual 
framework to investigate Taiwanese public agencies. This revealed four significant performance gaps 
among the five phases of a customer-oriented service system (see Figure 1). These included: (i) a gap 
between customer identification and surveys of customer needs; (ii) a gap between surveys of customer 
needs and service-system design; (iii) a gap between service-system design and service delivery; and (iv) a 
gap between service delivery and service recovery. 
 
Figure 1. Performance gaps among the five phases of a public service system 
 (Chen et al., 2005) 
The first gap identified by Chen et al. (2005) was between customer identification and surveys of 
customer needs. Although surveys of customer needs and satisfaction have become popular in public 
agencies, the study found that most agencies paid little attention to the issue of customer identification. 
This is a common and critical issue that will result in bad performance by a public-service agency. Public 
agencies must satisfy various kinds of customers, and a failure to identify the nature of its customers 
means that a public-service agency lacks a firm basis on which to conduct any customer-needs survey. In 
  6
 
 
Evaluation 
 
Re-evaluation 
z Evaluate service system-design & 
management 
y Customer identification 
y Customer needs survey 
y Service system design 
y Service delivery 
y Service recovery 
y Basic assumptions 
y Organizational values 
y System and behavior
 
Action 
z Evaluate total performance 
z Determine total performance level 
y Best practice 
y Re-engineering 
y Revolution
Change 
management
Diagnosis
and 
analysis 
y Development of change strategy 
y Creation of a change climate 
y Development of an action plan 
y Provision of training 
y Conducting a pilot run 
y Provision of social support 
y Full-scale implementation
z Change implementation 
z Evaluate organization culture 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Conceptual framework of ERA model 
Evaluation phase 
In the first phase of the ERA model, the total performance of the public-service system is evaluated using 
the customer-oriented service-enhancement system (COSES) measurement scale (Chen et al., 2004, 2005). 
COSES is an 18-item measurement scale that utilises 5-point Likert scales for each item. The score 
derived from the COSES measurement scale reflects the performance of customer-oriented service-system 
design, management, and organizational culture in a public agency. The sum of the scores within the 
COSES scale provides a total score between 18 and 90—which can be regarded as an index of total 
performance. On the basis of this total score, the public agency can be categorized into one of the three 
performance groups—‘best practice’ (score greater than 70), ‘re-engineering’ (score of 60–70), and 
‘revolution’ (score less than 60). 
The category of ‘best practice’ indicates that an agency has achieved a most effective service 
system—not only in terms of system design and management, but also in terms of fostering an appropriate 
organizational culture. 
The category of ‘re-engineering’ indicates the existence of some degree of performance gap—
which represents the common situation in most public agencies. An agency in this category requires 
continuing improvement in its service system and its performance. Evolutionary change is appropriate to 
such an agency. Evolutionary change involves a ‘bottom–up’ change strategy of incremental change—
whereby managers continually make adjustments to their strategy and structure. Managers using a 
  8
service was better developed in Taiwanese public agencies than the practical expression of the concept in 
terms of the actual service system and staff behavior. It is therefore suggested that public agencies need to 
focus on how to build and institutionalize an appropriate customer-oriented service system and appropriate 
service behavior. 
Action phase 
The first two phases of the ERA model diagnose the performance gaps in the public-service system. In the 
third phase, the change action required to bridge the performance gaps is determined. This implementation 
phase in the ERA model is therefore comprised of a series of steps—(i) development of a change strategy; 
(ii) creation of a change climate; (iii) development of an action plan for change; (iv) provision of training; 
(v) conducting a pilot run; (vi) provision of social support; and (vii) full-scale implementation. 
If the agency is categorized as being in the ‘best practice’ group, little action is required in the 
action phase. Being in this category indicates that the customer-oriented service system design and 
management of the agency is in almost perfect condition. The only requirement is to maintain the service 
system in good shape. 
If the agency is categorized as being in the ‘re-engineering’ group—which indicates the existence of 
some degree of performance gap—it is suggested that the agency should adopt an evolutionary change 
strategy to improve its service performance. To facilitate the change, management should use a bottom–up 
approach to create an appropriate change climate. This means that an agency discusses the need for 
change and the need to identify the problems facing the organization by involving managers and 
employees at all levels. Furthermore, it is crucial to build an effective two-way communication channel 
within the organization to ensure that employees’ opinions are heard. 
If the agency is categorized as being in the ‘revolution’ group—which indicates that very poor 
performances have resulted from significant gaps in the linkages between the five phases of service 
system design and management—it is suggested that the agency should adopt a revolutionary change 
strategy to overhaul its service system. To facilitate the change, management should use a top–down 
approach to create an appropriate change climate. This requires intervention at a high level of the 
organization, and it might be necessary for every level in the organization to change its structures to suit 
new realities with senior management providing managers with new goals and priorities. To bridge 
performance gaps, a working group should be established in every department to implement action plans 
in terms of each performance gap. 
 
Empirical case study 
Case description 
To demonstrate the implementation of the ERA model, an empirical case study was conducted. The 
subject of the study was a Taiwanese organization, the Land Management Bureau of Taoyuan County 
(LMBTC). The LMBTC is a governmental organization that provides land services to the general public 
directly through its seven land agencies, but it has been confronted with many complaints and appeals in 
the past. 
According to official Taiwanese regulations, a land-management organization has four functions: (i) 
record management (including record-keeping of changes in the ownership of real estate); (ii) appraisal 
management (involving the appraisal of the value and price of real estate); (iii) maintenance management 
(involving the maintenance of landmarks in a clear and updated fashion); and (iv) development 
management (including land renovation for the development of the county). 
Because it was confronted with many complaints from citizens, the LMBTC’s executive recognized 
that appropriate organizational change was required if the organization was to satisfy the general public. 
The present authors were invited to act as an external expert team to facilitate the LMBTC’s 
organizational change. 
 
  10
14. The public agency has heavily used ICTs to delivery services. 4 4 5 
15. The public agency uses teamwork, responsibility sharing and 
information to deliver services. 3 3 3 
16. The public agency puts the customers’ benefit first instead of just 
taking into account the convenience of their operations. 3 3 3 
17. The public agency always maintains accessible communication 
channels. 3 3 4 
18. The public agency has standard procedures for customers’ 
complaints. 3 2 3 
The total score in the initial stage 65 62 64 
The degree of mutual agreement with the researcher  0.833 0.722 
Reliability 0.875 
 
The expert team found that the performance gaps in the LMBTC were a result of the following six 
factors:  
* lack of a customer-oriented service concept—in particular, the lack of adequate customer-
identification and customer classification meant that the organization did not appreciate the 
needs of its various groups of customers; 
* an inadequate customer-needs survey system—in particular, the organization’s practice of 
arbitrarily choosing subjects to be surveyed had resulted in biased opinions being collected; 
* lack of an appropriate mechanism to ensure that customer needs were met by the service system—
which led to the design of the service system deviating from customers’ needs; 
* failure of service staff to conform with standard operating procedures and failure to establish an 
audit system—leading to inconsistent service quality; 
* lack of an effective incentive system to motivate employees—causing a passive organizational 
climate and high employee turnover rate; and 
* lack of an effective response system to deal with the customer’s suggestions, pleas, and 
complaints—causing customers’ complaints to be badly handled and a lack of customer 
feedback to provide a driving force for continuous improvement. 
Action phase 
Development of change strategy 
Based on the total performance score, the LMBTC was categorized as requiring a ‘re-engineering’ type of 
change. Such evolutionary change depends on a bottom–up change strategy. The expert team therefore 
suggested that the LMBTC develop a mechanism whereby innovative change ideas and actions could be 
suggested. A cross-functional work-improvement team was organized for this purpose. 
Creation of a change climate 
To ensure that recognition of the need for change was diffused throughout the organization, the expert 
team and executives from the LMBTC put much emphasis on the creation of a change climate. These 
efforts included: (i) helping employees to understand why organizational change was necessary and the 
nature of the LMBTC’s vision for change—that is, a commitment to provide a convenient, innovative, and 
customer-oriented service for citizens; (ii) keeping a two-way communication channel open within the 
organization to ensure that employees’ opinions were heard; and (iii) establishing an incentive system to 
encourage employees to propose innovative ideas for change. These efforts were intended to create an 
appropriate atmosphere in which LMBTC’s employees would be willing to conform with the action plan 
for change. 
Development of an action plan for change 
Having identified six reasons for the performance gaps in LMBTC’s service system (see above), the 
expert team proposed an action plan for change to enhance a customer-oriented service concept and 
customer-oriented service activities. Figure 3 presents the proposed plan. The proposed action plan was 
expected to produce innovative and convenient services by means of three approaches—(i) process re-
engineering; (ii) the use of information communication technologies (ICTs); and (iii) institutionalization. 
To be well-disposed the three approaches, fostering the customer-oriented service concepts/approaches 
and organizing the cross-functional work improvement team are two of the most important issues. The 
  12
* offering training courses to educate employees in becoming proficient in customer-oriented 
service concepts, skills, and the uses of ICTs; and 
* the establishment of a professional-knowledge database and intranet website to encourage the 
development of a learning organization. 
The expert team proposed three remedies to address the lack of an effective response system in 
dealing with the customer’s suggestions, pleas, and complaints. The three remedies were: 
* the development of multiple channels to maintain high accessibility to customers’ opinions; 
* the establishment of standard operating procedures to achieve consistent quality in responding to 
customers’ opinions; and 
* the development of an automatic-response system to ensure that customers’ opinions are 
responded to in a timely and appropriate fashion. 
Provision of training, conducting a pilot run, and provision of social support 
To minimize employee resistance to change, it was important to ensure that employees received the 
required training and experienced a small-scale pilot run. LMBTC therefore offered a series of training 
courses during the period of change. These courses included the concept and skills of customer-oriented 
service, the use of modern ICTs, work-improvement techniques, and so on. In addition, LMBTC chose to 
implement items that could be more easily accomplished in the early stages of change. These included 
renovation of the service environment, improved telephone-reception manner, pilot testing of the new 
service procedure in a certain land agency, and so on. 
Full-scale implementation 
After the small-scale pilot test, employees became confident about implementing full-scale change. The 
full-scale implementation included all the activities described above in the action plan for change. 
Results of implementing the ERA model 
This project was initiated in August 2003, and is still ongoing. To monitor the change performance, an 
onsite review was conducted at the end of 2004 to compare the performance at that time with the 
performance in August 2003. Data from the COSES measurement scale and key performance indicators 
were collected for this purpose. 
Performance improved in terms of COSES model 
Table 2 and Figure 4 present the results before and after the implementation of ERA model to change the 
LMBTC’s service-system. The results showed a significant improvement in the performance in all phases 
of the service system, with the exception of the survey of customers’ needs (p = 0.004). 
In the customer identification stage, it is found that the LMBTC has been aware of its various 
customers—including internal customers, external customers, and cross-agency customers after. In 
addition, it arranged for benchmarking comparison of innovative service activities within another similar 
organization—the Land Management Bureau of Taipei County—with a view to establishing best practice. 
In spite of the score being significant increased, the LMBTC still need to further classify its customers into 
different sub-group and to recognize their different service needs. 
In the customer-needs survey stage, it is found that the COSES score showed the same result in 
each item of this stage. It indicates that the LMBTC still needs to increase the performance of the 
customer-needs survey in terms of the rather precise identification and classification of its customer. 
In the service-system design stage, the LMBTC has recognized that customers’ needs should be 
taken into account in the design of the service system. In spite of the score of being increased, it is found 
that the LMBTC’s service system design still needs to be enhanced in many aspects, such as to investigate 
the service standard procedure, to audit the service system, and to reward employees who demonstrate 
good performance in customer-oriented service-related activities. 
 
Table 2. LMBTC’s score derived from COSES scale before and after the change 
Stage The COSES measurement scale Item score Stage score 
  14
In the service delivery stage, it is found that the LMBTC’s employees became more willingness to 
help customers deliver their requests by using teamwork and responsibility sharing than before. In spite of 
the score being increased, it is still need to enhance the culture of cross-functional cooperation and the use 
of ICTs in serving citizens and problem solving. 
In the service recovery stage, it is found that the LMBTC’s employees presented a more active 
attitude in dealing with customers’ opinions and complaints than before. In addition, the LMBTC 
developed the multiple channels to maintain high accessibility to customers’ opinions. In spite of the score 
being significant increased, the LMBTC is still lack of establishing the standard operating procedures to 
achieve consistent quality in responding to customers’ opinions. 
Based on the results derived from this empirical case study, it is found that the degree of 
improvement in the stages of customer identification and service recovery were greater than the other 
three stages. In other word, the ERA model showed a significant improvement in the performance in the 
stages of customer identification and service recovery. To facilitate the change process of a service system, 
it is found that the customer identification was the most crucial stage among the COSES model. The 
reason is that the customer identification is the original foundation of a service system and it does have 
significant effects on the performance. The improvement to identify the nature of its customers means that 
a public-service agency has a firm basis on which to conduct its customer-needs survey, service-system 
design, service delivery and service recovery. 
With respect to this empirical case study, it is also found that how to deal with the service recovery 
was also an important issue. The customer complaints and opinions provide an opportunity to listen the 
customer voices and needs for continuing improving the performance. Ignoring customers’ opinions will 
result in service agencies’ repeat in committing the same fault. An effective service organization should 
build an effective mechanism to respond appropriately to suggestions, pleas, and complaints from 
customers. 
Performance improved in terms of key performance indicators 
Table 3 presents the key performance indicators before and after the change. In land-record management, 
the process times for requesting a traditional hardcopy, an electronic copy, and online inquiries were 
significantly shortened. These improvements were facilitated by service-process re-engineering and the 
use of ICTs. The integration of service information with the internet and an intranet played a major role in 
these improvements. 
 
Table 3. Performance improvement for implementing ERA model 
Activities Before change (08/2003) 
After change 
(12/2004) Improvement 
Land-record management    
Process time for requesting a traditional 
hardcopy of land record 60 minutes 5 minutes 91.67% 
Process time for online requesting an 
electronic copy of land record  60 minutes 3minutes 95.00% 
Process time for online inquiring a land 
record  60 minutes 1 minute 98.33% 
Land-appraisal management    
Appraising land value/price manually electronically - 
Land value/prices database no 1 database (22.5 million records) - 
Land-maintenance management    
Process time for requesting a confirmed or 
updated landmark 7 days 1 day 85.71% 
Confirmed or updated landmark 2 cases/day/team 6 cases/day/team 200% 
Land-development management    
Land-development none 9 cases in process - 
Process time for a land-development case 7.5 years 2.5 years (estimated) 66.67% 
General customer service and 
administration 
   
Total customer satisfaction 49% 57% 16.33% 
  16
Further research 
Although the contributions of this paper are clear, the findings of the study must be utilised with caution 
because only one empirical case study was conducted to demonstrate how the ERA model is implemented. 
Some issues are worthy of further exploration. First, a longitudinal study is suggested to investigate how 
LMBTC’s organizational culture has been influenced by the ERA model. Secondly, it would be interesting 
to examine the use of the ERA model in other public organizations of different types. These could include 
other citizen-services organizations, technical-oriented organizations, supporting-function organizations, 
and policy-making organizations. Finally, the appropriateness of implementing the ERA model in private 
enterprise could also be investigated—including an investigation of the nature of the differences between 
the public sector and the private sector in implementing this change model. 
Acknowledgments 
This study was funded by the National Science Council, Republic of China (Taiwan) (NSC 96-2221-E-
155-028). Thanks are extended to Shiow-Jiuan Yang, Wen-Lan Chang, and Chiu-Kuei Kang for their 
contributions to this research. 
References 
Beer, M. (1980) Organizational Change and Development (Santa Monica, California: Goodyear). 
Bozeman, B. (1988) Exploring the limits of public and private sectors: sector boundaries as Maginot line, 
Public Administration Review, 48(2), pp. 672-674. 
Bozeman, B. & Bretschneider, S. (1986) Public management information systems: theory and prescription, 
Public Administration Review, 46(6), pp. 475-487. 
Bretschneider, S. (1990) Management information systems in public and private organizations: an 
empirical test, Public Administration Review, 50(5), pp. 536-545. 
Bretschneider, S. & Wittmer, D. (1993) Organizational adoption of microcomputer technology: the role of 
sector, Information Systems Research, 4(1), pp. 88-108. 
Chen, C. K., Yu, C. H. & Chang, H. C. (2005) An empirical analysis of customer-oriented service 
activities in the Taiwanese public sector, Total Quality Management & Business Excellence, 16(7), pp. 
887-901. 
Chen, C. K., Yu, C. H., Yang, S. J. & Chang, H. C. (2004) A customer-oriented service-enhancement 
system (COSES) for the public sector, Managing Service Quality, 14(5), pp. 414-425. 
Coursey, D. & Bozeman, B. (1990) Decision making in public and private organizations: a test of 
alternative concepts of “publicness”, Public Administration Review, 50(5), pp. 525-535. 
DeLeon, L. and Denhardt, R. (2000) The political theory of reinvention, American Review of Public 
Administration, 60(2), pp. 89-97. 
Doyle, M., Claydon, T. & Buchanan, D. (2000) Mixed results, lousy process: the management experience 
of organizational change, British Journal of Management, 11(3), pp. 59-80. 
Durst, S. & Newell, C. (1999) Better, faster, stronger, government reinvention in the 1990s, American 
Review of Public Administration, 29(1), pp. 61-75. 
Farias, G. & Johnson, H. (2000) Organizational development and change management, Journal of Applied 
Behavioral Science, September, pp. 376-379. 
Fowler, A. & Pryke, J. (2003) Knowledge management in public service provision: the child support 
agency, International Journal of Service Industry Management, 14(3), pp. 254-283. 
Gustafson, D. H., Cats-Baril, W. L. & Alemi, F. (1992) System to Support Health Policy Analysis: Theory, 
Models, and Uses (Health Administration Press, Ann Arbor, Michigan). 
Holloway, J., Francis, G. & Hinton, M. A. (1999) A vehicle for change? A case study of performance 
improvement in the new public sector, The International Journal of Public Sector Management, 12(4), 
pp. 350-364. 
Hsieh, A. T., Chou, C. H. & Chen, C. M. (2002) Job standardization and service quality: a closer look at 
the application of total quality management to the public sector, Total Quality Management, 13(7), pp. 
899-912. 
Jones, G. R. (1998) Organizational Theory: Text and Cases (Addison Wesley Longman Publishing 
Company, Inc). 
（附件四） 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                   97 年 07 月 30 日 
報 告 人 姓 名 陳 啟 光 所屬系所 工業工程與管理系 
會議時間地點 加拿大多倫多（2008/07/24～2008/07/26） 
會 議 名 稱
第十八屆美國暨太平洋週邊華人管理教育學者國際研討會 
The 18th ACME International Conference on Pacific Rim 
Management 
發表論文題目 CORE: A Study of customer-oriented service system in the 
public sector 
一、參加會議經過 
07/23 搭乘聯合航空公司前往加拿大多倫多與會，由於航空公司沒有適當班機於
會議開始當天(07/24)抵達，所以提早一天(7/23)出發，由於時差的關係班機
於同一天 07/23 下午七時左右抵達多倫多 Pearson 國際機場，隨即搭乘 Hotel 
Shuttle 前往會議召開地點 Doubletree 飯店，抵達之後即在旅館櫃臺遇見本
次會議主要籌辦人 Eastern Michign University Huei Lee 教授，李教授非常親
切的為我說明此次會議的相關安排。 
07/24 下午辦理報到領取會議資料，晚上參加會議的 conference dinner，該晚宴
係由駐多倫多經濟文化辦事處贊助。此行臺灣參與會議的學者尚稱踴躍，
總計來自美國、加拿大、大陸、香港及臺灣管理學界參加的學者約有 100
位。來自美國加地區各大專院校學者包括：Gonzaga University, Professor 
Jason Chen，University of Southern Mississippi Professor Kuo Lane Chen，
Eastern Michigan University, Huei Lee，University of Houston, Pete Chong，
Miami University, David Yen。來自臺灣各大專院校學者包括：中原大學副校
長胡為善教授、成功大學管理學院院長吳萬益教授、輔仁大學管理學院院
長楊銘賢教授、交通大學工管系巫木誠教授、世新大學經濟系周濟教授、
東海大學工管管彭泉教授、大同大學企管系陳美芳教授等。 
07/25 本屆研討會比較特別的是開幕典禮係以早餐會的方式舉行，由 Dr. Oto 
Chang, Dean of California State University-San Bernadino 教授主持的論壇，主
題為”International Collaborative Programs and AACSB Accreditation”。該論壇
總計邀請五位來自美加、大陸、臺灣各大專院校管理學院主管發表各校管
理領域在國際合作及 AACSB 認證準備過程的經驗與心得，大致而言，引言
者皆認為目前國際合作的廣度做得還不錯，但是深度都還有待加強。另外
此次的 keynote speech 係安排於午餐的時間演講，由 Mr. Larry Smith, 
President of The Quality Smith, and Fellow/Former National Center Director, 
CORE: A Study of Customer-Oriented Service System  
in the Public Sector 
 
 
Chi-Kuang Chen 
Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, Yuan Ze University, 
135Yuan-Tung Road, Chung-Li 320, Taiwan, ROC 
Email: iekchen@saturn.yzu.edu.tw
Tel: 886-3-4638800 ext. 2528 
Chang-Hsi Yu 
Department of Business Administration, Yu Da College of Business, Taiwan, ROC 
Hsiu-Chen Chang 
Department of Accounting, Yu Da College of Business, Taiwan, ROC 
Department of Management, National Kaohsiung First University of Science and Technology, Taiwan, ROC 
 
 
Abstract: This paper presents a study of customer-oriented service in the public sector. In response to the increasing demands of 
customers, many public agencies have taken up specific approaches from the private sector—such as total quality 
management—to enhance service quality and performance in the public sector. Although these approaches have been popular in 
manufacturing industry for several decades, the suitability of using them in the public sector is a matter of debate. The present 
authors argue that, rather than ‘borrowing’ concepts and systems from private industries, public-sector managers should 
investigate how customer-oriented service can be specifically developed in the public sector. This paper therefore presents a 
comprehensive three-phase study—which includes conceptual model development, systematic empirical analysis, and change 
model development. On the basis of this three-phase study, an integrated model (referred to as ‘CORE’) is proposed. 
 
 
BACKGROUND AND RESEARCH PROBLEM 
 
The advent of global competition, market liberalization, and the revolution in information technology has brought unprecedented 
changes to government organizations and their employees. In this atmosphere of radical change, public-service managers are 
increasingly under pressure to improve the performance of their organizations. They are expected to satisfy the various stakeholders, 
improve services (in terms of quality, effectiveness, and efficiency), achieve organizational goals, and establish a culture of continuous 
improvement. In an attempt to respond to these challenges, public-service managers have turned to various change-management 
approaches and tools that have been successfully used in the private sector. These have included total quality management (TQM), 
business process reengineering (BPR), balanced scorecard (BSC), strategic management, benchmarking, strategic management 
initiatives, employee empowerment, the use of information technologies, downsizing, managing costs, privatization, and so on 
(Rosenhoover & Kuhn, 1996; Holloway et al., 1999). 
The past two decades of administrative reform and modernization have significantly transformed entities in the public sector 
in developed countries from being rigid inward-looking institutions to outward-looking organizations that place the citizen at the heart 
of services (Kickert et al., 1997; DeLeon & Denhardt, 2000). However, many public-sector organizations continue to experience 
difficulties in meeting the demands of a better-educated public in a fast-changing social environment, and some scholars have argued 
that there is a lack of evidence of the effectiveness of the reinvention efforts that have been made in the public sector (Kettl & DiIulio, 
1995; Kamensky, 1996; Durst & Newell, 1999). It is argued that relatively little is known about the use of these change-management 
approaches in public agencies and even less about their success or otherwise (Zeppou & Sotirakou, 2003). 
One of the most significant difficulties in implementing these approaches successfully is that there are significant 
environmental and organizational differences between private organizations and public organizations (Rainey, 1983; Bozeman & 
Bretschneider, 1986; Bozeman, 1988; Bretschneider, 1990; Coursey & Bozeman, 1990; Bretschneider & Wittmer, 1993). For example, 
the concept of ‘the customer’, which is central to the achievement of business excellence, is a more complex concept in the context of 
the public sector, and cannot be considered in isolation from other stakeholders (Hazlett & Hill, 2003). This reflects core public-sector 
values—such as the protection of the collective public interest—which are more important in the public sector than they are in the 
market-oriented and customer-pleasing culture of private enterprise (Zeppou & Sotirakou, 2003). 
In addition, the outdated bureaucratic model that characterizes many public organizations—which harks back to a past era of 
mass markets and slower-paced societies—is another impediment to change. Such a bureaucratic model does not provide those at the 
top of the pyramid with enough information to make informed decisions (Osborne & Gaebler, 1992). Consequently, politicians and 
bureaucrats are faced with a significant challenge in facilitating the emergence of ‘customer-oriented’ public agencies that can respond 
appropriately to the increasing demands of customers. 
Public-service organizations thus face greater difficulties than do private-sector firms in implementing effective changes. 
These difficulties can be summarized as: (i) problems associated with the essential ethos of the public service; (ii) difficulties in 
 
Phase 2: Systematic empirical analysis 
 
The results of the first phase provide a benchmark for best practice in customer-oriented service activities in the public 
sector. On the basis of this benchmark, the second phase involves the development of a measurement scale to indicate 
how well customer orientation has been implemented in any given public agency. To examine differences in performance 
between the best public agencies and others, the authors conducted a systematic empirical analysis of national (Taiwanese) 
public agencies. 
 
 
Phase 3: Change-model development 
 
The authors then propose a customer-oriented organizational change model to improve unsatisfactory performance as revealed in the 
empirical analysis of the preceding phase. This model employs a three-step approach: (i) evaluation—an evaluation of the total 
performance of the public-service system; (ii) re-evaluation—another (more specific) evaluation of the system with a view to 
detecting the reasons for bad performances; and (iii) action—the development of a strategy and the implementation of an action plan 
for change. 
At the conclusion of these three phases, an integrated model (referred to as ‘CORE’) is presented to summarize the 
contribution of the study. 
 
 
RESULTS 
 
Phase 1: Customer-oriented service-enhancement system 
 
As previously noted, the first phase of the study proposed a model for best practice in customer-oriented activities in the public sector. 
This model—the customer-oriented service-enhancement system (COSES)—was developed from an examination of the best 
customer-oriented service activities of Taiwanese public agencies. Rather than using a single dimension in developing a 
customer-oriented service model (as had been done in previous studies), Chen et al. (2004) argued that a comprehensive model 
required two dimensions: (i) the design and management of a customer-oriented service system; and (ii) the fostering of an 
organizational culture. 
 
 
 
Organizational 
vision, policy, 
and strategy 
C
ustom
er identification 
C
ustom
er-needs survey 
Service-system
 design 
Service delivery 
Service recovery 
Organizational culture 
  
 
Service quality 
& Customer 
satisfaction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Conceptual framework of the COSES model (Chen et al., 2004) 
 
Figure 2 presents the conceptual framework of the COSES model. In the first dimension (design and management), a 
sequential five-stage development of a customer-oriented service system management is proposed. It is comprised of: (i) customer 
identification; (ii) customer-needs survey; (iii) service-system design; (iv) service delivery; and (v) service recovery. In the other 
dimension, a three-layer fostering of an organizational culture is proposed. It is comprised of: (i) basic assumptions; (ii) organizational 
values; and (iii) system and behavior. Based on an investigation of Taiwanese public agencies operating with best practice, 18 
 
crucial to set up an effective system to guide front-line service providers. An effective incentive system, training programs, 
cross-functional teamwork, and business process reengineering are appropriate approaches to deal with this issue. 
 
 
Figure 3: Performance gaps among the five phases of a public service system (Chen et al., 2006) 
 
The fourth performance gap identified by Chen et al. (2005) was between service delivery and service recovery. It is 
important to respond appropriately to suggestions and complaints from customers. However, most of the studied agencies presented a 
defensive attitude in dealing with customers’ opinions and complaints. Ignoring customers’ opinions will result in service agencies’ 
repeating the same fault. Establishing a standard procedure for dealing with customers’ complaints, creating multiple channels for 
communication, and establishing an open-minded attitude to customers’ complaints are the keys to bridging this gap. 
In addition to the four performance gaps identified above, there were also problems in fostering an appropriate culture. An 
analysis of the COSES model demonstrated that the three-layer fostering of culture noted above—(i) basic assumptions; (ii) 
organizational values; and (iii) system and behavior—was uniformly high in the agencies with excellent performance. However, the 
agencies with poor performance showed significant gaps in the three layers. In particular, although their results were good in the 
basic-assumptions layer, they were poor in the system-and-behavior layer. It implies that building an appropriate system and behavior 
in the service system is the key to excellent performance. 
To achieve the highest level of TQM performance, public agencies should eliminate the performance gaps described above. It 
indicates that public agencies should focus on the ‘ideal case’ of establishing effective linkages between the five phases of 
service-system design and management (see Figure 4). The ‘normal’ case in Figure 4 indicates the existence of ‘performance gaps’ of 
some degree—which represents the most common current situation in public agencies. The ‘ideal case’ represents an excellent 
performance—with no performance gaps between the five phases of service-system design and management. The ‘poor case’ exists 
when staff members are not well disposed to TQM—thus producing significant gaps in the linkages between the five phases of 
service-system design and management. Because the linkage of the four gaps looks like a big bird flying, the present authors refer to 
this phenomenon as being like a ‘roc flying’. The metaphor of ‘roc flying’ represents that it is like the roc fully spreading its wings as 
it ascends for those agencies having well-disposed towards TQM. In contrast, it is like the roc retracts its wings when it descends for 
those agencies having poor-disposed towards TQM. 
 
 
Phase 3: Developing a customer-oriented organizational change model 
 
The bridging of the performance gaps identified in Phase 2 is crucial to enhancing service quality in public services. The third phase 
of the present study therefore proposed an organizational change model to address this problem. This model employs a three-step 
approach: 
* evaluation—an evaluation of the total performance of the public-service system; 
* re-evaluation—another (more specific) evaluation of the system with a view to detecting the reasons for bad performances; 
and  
* action—the development of a strategy and the implementation of an action plan for change.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
Evaluation 
 
Re-evaluation 
z Evaluate service system-design & 
management 
y Customer identification 
y Customer needs survey 
y Service system design 
y Service delivery 
y Service recovery 
y Basic assumptions 
y Organizational values 
y System and behavior
 
Action 
z Evaluate total performance 
z Determine total performance 
y Best practice 
y Re-engineering 
y Revolution
Change 
management
Diagnosis
and 
analysis 
y Development of change strategy
y Creation of a change climate 
y Development of an action plan 
y Provision of training 
y Conducting a pilot run 
y Provision of social support 
y Full-scale implementation
z Change implementation 
z Evaluate organization culture 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Conceptual framework of ERA model (Chen et al., 2006) 
 
Action step 
 
The first two steps of the ERA model diagnose the performance gaps in the public-service system. In the third phase, the change action 
required to bridge the performance gaps is determined in terms of the three performance groups. 
If the agency is categorized as being in the ‘best practice’ group, little action is required in the action phase. Being in this 
category indicates that the customer-oriented service system design and management of the agency is in almost perfect condition. The 
only requirement is to maintain the service system in good shape. 
If the agency is categorized as being in the ‘re-engineering’ group—which indicates the existence of some degree of 
performance gap—it is suggested that the agency should adopt an evolutionary change strategy to improve its service performance. To 
facilitate the change, management should use a bottom–up approach to create an appropriate change climate. This means that an 
agency discusses the need for change and the need to identify the problems facing the organization by involving managers and 
employees at all levels. 
If the agency is categorized as being in the ‘revolution’ group—which indicates that very poor performances have resulted 
from significant gaps in the linkages between the five phases of service system design and management—it is suggested that the 
agency should adopt a revolutionary change strategy to overhaul its service system. To facilitate the change, management should use a 
top–down approach to create an appropriate change climate. This requires intervention at a high level of the organization, and it might 
be necessary for every level in the organization to change its structures to suit new realities with senior management providing 
managers with new goals and priorities. 
This implementation phase in the ERA model consists of six parts—(i) development of a change strategy; (ii) creation of a 
change climate; (iii) development of an action plan for change; (iv) provision of training; (v) conducting a pilot run; (vi) provision of 
social support; and (vii) full-scale implementation. 
This customer-oriented organizational change model stated above provides a holistic customer-oriented perspective on how 
change actually occurs, and it shows how such a perspective can facilitate change action. In addition, the ERA model incorporates the 
three traditional forms of change management which was proposed by Robbins (2003)—(i) Lewin’s classic three-step model of the 
change process; (ii) action research; and (iii) organizational development. With respect to the first, the three phases of the ERA model 
demonstrate that the ERA model is basically a process-based change model. With respect to the second, the scientific-focus of action 
research is reflected in the two diagnostic phases of the ERA model (evaluation and re-evaluation). With respect to the third, the 
 
assurance, and empathy. Despite the popularity of the SERVQUAL model, scholars have suggested that the instrument has various 
shortcomings that limit its usefulness (Brown et al., 1993).  
The first criticism concerns the five dimensions used in the model. Carman (1990) has suggested that more dimensions are 
needed, whereas Babakus and Mangold (1989) have suggested that the SERVQUAL items represent only one factor (rather than five). 
In contrast to the SERVQUAL model, the CORE model presented here takes another perspective by addressing the procedures for 
building an effective customer-oriented service system in terms of the sequential five-stage COSES model (customer identification, 
customer needs, system design, service delivery, and service recovery) and the three phases of the study stated above.  
In a separate criticism, Brown et al. (1993) questioned the SERVQUAL method of measuring service quality by a ‘difference 
score’. Using SERVQUAL, service quality is assessed in terms of the difference between subjects’ rating of the expected level of 
service (before the service) and their ratings of the actual level of service received (after the service). The calculation of a difference 
score in the SERVQUAL measure can lead to several psychometric problems. This weakness has also been noted by other researchers, 
including Carman (1990) and Cronin et al. (1992). In contrast to the difference-score method used in the SERVQUAL model, the 
CORE model measures the performance of each item by using a direct rating method—thus eliminating the psychometric problem 
described above.  
Finally, the SERVQUAL model can be criticised for its reliance on a ‘gap model’. Parasuraman et al. (1985) postulated the 
performance of service quality in terms of five ‘gaps’—(i) a gap between consumer expectation and management perception; (ii) a gap 
between management perception and service-quality specification; (iii) a gap between service-quality specification and service 
delivery; (iv) a gap between service delivery and external communications; and (v) an overall gap obtained by combining the previous 
four gaps. Assessment of these gaps involves various stakeholders—including managers, customers, and employees. The problem 
with this approach is that various stakeholders have different perceptions of service quality. In contrast to this approach, the CORE 
model examines performance gaps in terms of a single evaluator making observational assessments throughout the service system. 
This method of measuring service quality is more reliable than that used in the SERVQUAL gap model.  
 
 
The CORE model and the Malcolm Baldrige Quality Award model 
 
The evaluation criteria for the Malcolm Baldrige Quality Award model include: (i) leadership; (ii) strategic planning; (iii) customer 
and market focus; (iv) measurement, analysis, and knowledge management; (v) human-resource development and management; (vi) 
process management; and (vii) business results. These seven criteria not only cover the technical aspects of an organizational system, 
but also include the social aspects of organizational management. Among the seven criteria, three linkages are suggested to investigate 
for the best management practice (Evans, 1997): (i) linkage among business results, which include external results (such as, customer 
satisfaction, financial performance, and market performance, etc) and internal results (such as, employee well-being, employee 
satisfaction, employee development, work system improvement, supplier/partner effectiveness, product/service quality, company 
responsibility and community involvement, etc), (ii) linkages between business results and the rest of six criteria, and (iii) linkages 
among the six criteria. The three linkages suggest that management is highly interdisciplinary. Yet, Evans (1997) argues that it is 
really challenging to face the nature of the linkages within the criteria. For example, the nature of the integrated management system is 
usually ignored by practitioners. Also, the contents of academic research and education represented by the seven criteria are typically 
within disciplinary boundaries.  
In contrast to the difficulties that exist in the criteria of the Malcolm Baldrige Quality Award, the CORE model proposes a 
systematic and stepwise approach in implementing best-management practice. The linkages among the criteria are accomplished in a 
step-by-step approach in the CORE model. In addition, the technical and the social aspects are separately considered. In the first and 
second phases of the CORE model, the sequential five-stage COSES model proposed in this study focuses only on diagnosing the 
technical aspects of an organizational system. Customer-oriented service activities are deliberatively examined in terms of customer 
identification, customer needs, system design, service delivery, and service recovery. The performance gaps (overall and individual) 
are then identified. No social aspect is involved in these two phases. In the third phase of the CORE model, a comprehensive 
organizational change program is launched. In this period of change, both technical factors and the social factors are taken into 
account—such as the creation of a change climate, the provision of social support, and so on.  
 
 
Future study 
 
The research findings of this study are interesting, and the potential contribution to public-service system design and management are 
significant. However, several issues are worthy of further exploration. First, a longitudinal study is suggested to verify the validity and 
reliability of the CORE model. In particular, further examination is required with respect to the three weak stages of the COSES 
model (customer identification, system design, and service recovery). Secondly, it would be interesting to examine the use of the 
CORE model in other public organizations of different types. These could include other citizen-services organizations, 
technical-oriented organizations, supporting-function organizations, and policy-making organizations. Finally, the appropriateness of 
implementing the CORE model in private enterprise could also be investigated—including an investigation of the nature of the 
differences between the public sector and the private sector in implementing this change model. 
 
