 2
of the nearest rental stations). Fewer rental stations allow lower total inventory costs, but provide 
lower coverage of final demand. Thus, there is a basic tradeoff in determining the number and 
locations of rental stations. A network of more rental stations also allows shorter travel trip 
between origins/destinations and rental stations, potentially decreasing travel costs. However, 
additional cost for constructing and operating the rental stations will be incurred. 
The optimal design of this system requires an integrated view of travel costs of users, 
bicycle inventory costs and facility costs of rental stations and bicycle lanes as well as service 
levels. The purpose of this study is to create a formal model that provides such an integrated view, 
and to develop methods for obtaining solutions for the design variables in practical situations. 
 
二、文獻回顧 
This research draws on literature in three key areas: hub location problem and maximal 
covering models, and logistics systems design with performance constraints. 
Hub location problem has been one of the important classic facility location problems due 
to the use of hub and spoke networks in transportation and telecommunication systems. Hub and 
spoke network systems serve every origin/destination demand via a smaller set of links between 
origin/destinations and hubs and between pairs of hubs, rather than serving demand with direct 
links. The hub location problem involves determining the hub facilities and determining the links 
to connect origins, destinations and hubs. Since the early work by O’Kelly (1986), hub location 
problem has been applied to varius application. For the review of applications and solution 
procedures for the hub location problem, we refere to Campbell, Ernst and Krishnamoorthy 
(2002). 
The maximal covering model was first formulated by Church and ReVelle (1974) and has 
been used in a variety of applications. For the review of applications and solution procedures for 
the maximal covering problem, we refer to Mirchandani and Francis (1990) and Daskin (1995). 
To ensure that hub network can effectively handle the traffic through hubs and uncertain 
demands, several performance constraints may be included in the hub location models. However, 
these constraints are most common in telecommunication systems and logistics systems.  
Logistics systems design models to include demand uncertainty and performance constraints are 
the work by Cole (1995), by Nozick and Turnquist (1998, 2000, 2001), by Shen, Coullard and 
Daskin (2003), by Miranda and Garrido (2004) and by Lin, Nozick and Turnquist (2006). The 
model can be viewed as a hub location model with performance constraints. Since there is 
relatively few literature published on the hub location problem with performance constraints, this 
also encourages us to carry out this study.  
 
三、問題定義 
The problem can be summarized as follows. Given a set of origins, destinations, potential 
bicycle stations and the travel demands from origin to destination with specific demand processes, 
we would like to know where to locate the bicycle stations, where to build the bicycle lanes, and 
 4
candidate sites are considered for the bike stations. Among them, there are six sites near the 
bus/MRT stations and 5 sites near the office buildings. The travel demands are derived between 
the bus/MRT stations and office buildings. Therefore, there are 72 pairs of travel demands. The 
public bicycle system is designed to integrate the public transportation systems and provide 
access to final destinations. A commuter walks from one of the bus/MRT stations to the closest 
bike station and picks up a bike. Then, he/she rides the bike to the second bike station and returns 
the bike. Finally, he/she walks from the second bike station to the office building. The reverse 
direction, from the office buildings to the bus/MRT stations, also derives travel demand. The 
coverage distance is assumed to be 300 meters and the unit penalty cost for uncovered demand is 
deemed to be NTD 100 per trip. The unit walking cost is NTD 0.2 per meter per trip and the unit 
bicycle riding cost is NTD 0.04 per meter per trip. The fixed cost of building a bicycle lane is 
NTD 100/per meter times the distance between two stations and the fixed costs of bicycle stations 
range from NTD 4 millions to NTD8 millions. We assume that the bicycle stocks are replenished 
everyday. The unit bicycle holding cost is NTD 2,000 per year. The availability rate is assumed to 
be 99%. 
The system design yielded a recommendation of 8 bicycle stations located at k1, k4, k6, l1, 
l2, l3, l4, and l5, and 30 bicycle lanes lying in between these stations. All travel demands are 
routed on the corresponding shortest travel cost path, given the open stations and bicycle lanes. 
Those users from the six bus/MRT stations merely walk to the nearest open bicycle station to pick 
up a bicycle, ride to the open station nearest to their respective destinations, drop off the bicycle 
at the station, and then walk to their destinations. For example, the users traveling from origin i1 
to destination j1 walk to station k1 to pick up a bicycle, ride to the station, drop off the bicycle at 
the station, and then walk to destination j1. Those users from the six bus/MRT stations who travel 
to destination j5, however, may use different drop-off stations. The users from the upper three 
origins (namely, i1, i2 and i5) drop off bicycles at station l4 and then walk to destination j5. The 
users from the lower three origins (namely, i3, i4 and i6) drop off bicycles at station l5 and then 
walk to destination j5.  For those users who travel from the six office buildings to the bus/MRT 
stations, the routing choices are identical to those of the users who travel from the bus/MRT 
stations except that they move in the reverse direction. 
The proposed design model described in Section 2 provides several parameters that are 
significant levers affecting the solution. Sensitivity analysis is conducted to illustrate how 
significant parameters affect the solution.  
 
六、結論與建議 
Public bicycle systems have attracted a great deal of attention in recent years, having been 
used as a new inner-city transportation mode that can be integrated with existing public transit 
systems in many cities. With most of the studies related to bicycle systems in the literature having 
focused on traffic engineering or safety issues, we have not found any study that has addressed 
the public bicycle systems from the perspective of strategic systems planning. This study 
therefore considers both the user’s and the investor’s point of view in addressing the design of 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 98-2221-E-019-026- 
計畫名稱 考量服務水準之公共自行車租賃系統策略性設計模式之探討 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
林振榮助理教授 
國立臺灣海洋大學運輸與航海科學系 
會議時間地點 日本淡路島夢舞台國際會議中心 (July 25-28, 2010, Awaji Island, Japan) 
會議名稱 
第四十屆電腦暨工業工程國際研討會  
(The 40th International Conference on Computers and Industrial Engineering, 
CIE40) 
發表論文題目 STRATEGIC DESIGN OF PUBLIC BICYCLE SHARING SYSTEMS INCORPORATING WITH BICYCLE STOCKS CONSIDERATIONS 
 
一、參加會議經過 
The 40th International Conference on Computers and Industrial Engineering (CIE40)係由
Computers & Industrial Engineering: An International Journal 所發起之國際會議，宗旨在擴
展關於電腦與工業工程與管理的議題，吸引更多的學者、政府機關、業界管理人員的參
與，促進電腦在工業工程與管理領域的應用之學術研究，以及相關實務應用之發展。舉
凡作業研究應用、供應鏈管理、製造管理、永續經營管理、…等，皆包含於會議討論議
題，此會議提供世界各國從事工業工程與管理的理論與實務之學者與機構一個交流的機
會，並於此研討會發表最新研究方向、方法與成果。此次會議於 99 年 7 月 25 日至 99 年
7 月 28 日於淡路島夢舞台國際會議中心舉行。此次會議主題為電腦計算方法在先進製造
及服務系統應用，此次發表之會議有下列幾類重點：作業研究應用、供應鏈與物流管理、
多目標決策與分析、排程、新製造科技發展、創新科技與工程管理、統計模式、…等。共
有 290 篇文章發表、三百多個學者參與。研討議題之進行分為 10 個時段，每一時段有
7~9 個不同的場次，並邀集 2 位 keynote speakers、3 位 plenary speakers 及 3 位 tutorial 
speakers。筆者之研究興趣在於公共自行車租賃系統策略性設計問題。會議中筆者於作業
研究應用之研討議題中發表論文一篇，題目為『STRATEGIC DESIGN OF PUBLIC 
BICYCLE SHARING SYSTEMS INCORPORATING WITH BICYCLE STOCKS 
CONSIDERATIONS』。本發表論文並獲得 CIE 40 Best Paper Award，以下針對此與會心得
加以說明。 
二、與會心得 
作業研究可應用於解決許多工業工程與管理及服務系統的議題，此次參加會議更深
刻體驗到針對相似之關鍵問題，各種不同背景領域的學者專家所著眼的問題角度不儘相
同、應用的方法亦不甚相同。例如會中香港大學 Sin-Man Choi 等以排隊理論討論多服務
機台產能及需求最佳配置、張宗勝教授討論多途程之車輛排程問題等等；設計自行車租
賃系統時，須同時考量設施成本、自行車道建置成本、自行車存貨成本、使用者旅行成
本及服務水準(自行車租賃滿足率及起迄點之覆蓋率)，所以本研究將長期的系統投資成
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
獲得 International Conference on Computers and Industrial Engineering 
最佳論文獎 (CIE40 Best Paper Award). 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
