2Real-time decision support systems using fuzzy agent systems
Kun-Yung Lu
Department of Electronics Engineering, National United University
1 Lienda, Kungching Li, Miaoli, Taiwan 36003, ROC
Abstract
In many manufacturing processes, real time information can be obtained from
process control computers and other monitoring devices. However, production
control problems are frequently accompanied by certain and uncertain conditions.
Problems with uncertainty conditions generally include difficulty in identifying an
optimal solution in real time using conventional mathematical approaches. This
study presents a fuzzy-logic approach for shop-floor decision-making. Some
linguistic variables and rules-of-thumb are used to form the fuzzy logic models,
based on the experiences of domain experts. The historical production data are used
to train and tune the fuzzy models. The tuned fuzzy models are then embedded into
an internet-based and event-oriented information system as fuzzy agents. The
production controller can easily make suitable production control decisions based on
the inference results of fuzzy agents to satisfy the quick response requirement.
Keywords: Fuzzy logic; Agent system; Decision support system; Real time;
Uncertainty management; Maintenance
1. Introduction
Globalization and stringent competition have recently forced companies to adjust
their business management methods (Ng and Ip, 1998; Petrovic et al., 1999). Many
manufacturers have been driven to shift their production strategies from
build-to-forecast to build-to-order or configuration-to-order to lower inventories and
attain a beneficial position in a global supply chain (Chen et al., 2003). However,
satisfying the needs of quick response, the limitations of short lead times, numerous
4certainty information when data change event from the networking system occur.
Finally, the production controller can utilize this information to make appropriate
real-time decisions.
The rest of this study is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the problems in
production control and maintenance. Section 3 then presents the framework. The
working principles of the proposed model are then described in Section 4. Section 5
then introduces a case study to demonstrate the proposed model. Finally, conclusions
are drawn in Section 6.
2. Review of the literature
High productivity and quick customers response are essential to most
manufacturers. Quick response refers to the speed-to-market of products that move
rapidly through the production and delivery cycle, from raw materials and component
suppliers, to manufacturer, to retailer and finally to end consumers (Perry et al., 1999).
Considering a competitive market requiring quick response, the production controller
must quickly make appropriate decisions concerning issues such as job assignment,
machine maintenance and materials supplement. The aim is to minimize production
costs, enhance product quality and lower delivery time to customers. Poor
decision-making may raise cost and disruption (Cowling and Johansson, 2002; Sriram
and Haghani, 2003).
Due to the market trend away from mass production and towards mass
customization, a flexible manufacturing system is usually adopted to fabricate
products in small batches, and to satisfy numerous specific orders (Beskese et al.,
2004). New technologies and novel equipment are normally applied to arrange the
production line. These technologies and equipments are frequently complex to
maintain (Hipkin and Cock, 2000). Just-in-time (JIT) production systems are often
61996). Numerous investigations have also stressed the significance of maintenance
and proposed maintenance strategies (Al-Najjar and Alsyouf, 2003). Possible
maintenance policies usually include use-based maintenance (UBM), condition-based
maintenance (CBM), failure-based maintenance (FBM), design-out maintenance
(DOM) and detection-based maintenance (DBM) (Waeyenbergh and Pitelon, 2004).
The selection of a maintenance policy is a key decision for production managers in
modern production systems. However, the production controller concentrates only on
failure-based maintenance, that is, ensuring that broken machines are repaired
immediately to restore the production line (Wang, 2002).
In the event of a machine breakdown, the production controller must immediately
switch the current job to another machine, or wait until the machine is repaired. The
break-even point of the decision is the comparison of changing and maintenance cost.
If the cost lost resulting from the waiting time associated with maintenance is lower
than the cost of changing the machine, then the decision is “wait”; otherwise, the 
decision is “change”. However, this problem implies some uncertainty conditions 
(Al-Najjar and Alsuouf, 2003).
One of the major reasons for uncertainty in real time scheduling environments has
historically been the lack of accurate information (Cowling and Johansson, 2002).
The advent of computerized information systems capable of tracking job and machine
status in real time has changed this situation. In many process industries, information
is generated in real time by process control computers and other monitoring devices.
The production information can thus be easily added into contemporary networking
systems.
Quantification methods cannot easily be applied to evaluate the many decision
variables in production control problems that are linguistically unclear and hard to
quantify (Scarf, 1997; Sriram and Haghani, 2003). The sources of uncertainty usually
8fuzzy models is developed to assist the production controller in solving the
uncertainty in production control problems. The related components are constructed
on an internet-based infrastructure. Figure 1 describes the proposed framework in
detail.
Fig. 1 The proposed framework
The proposed framework is composed of a Fuzzy Agent Server, Database, Data
Updating Monitor, Data Updating Agent, Fuzzy Executing Agent and Reporting
Agent. The Fuzzy Project Preprocessor, located on the left-hand side of Fig.1, is
utilized to prepare the fuzzy application programs.
The user can adopt any fuzzy software to create a fuzzy program based on factors
such as domain knowledge, rules-of-thumb and production logs. To realize the real
time status, the fuzzy programs are compiled to the dynamic-link-language (DLL)
binary files. The fuzzy executing program can then invoke these compiled files in
runtime. For example, this study adopted a fuzzy software, fuzzyTECH (2001), to
create the fuzzy project. The fuzzyTECH can also compile the project to the code in
Keyboard Data Terminal
Automatic Data
Collector
Data
Updating
Agent
Database
Internet
Data
Updating
Monitor
Fuzzy
Executing
Agent
Domain Knowledge
Rule-of-Thumbs
Production Logs
Fuzzy Projects
Fuzzy Runtime Models
Fuzzy Agents
Server
Compiler
Reporting
Agent
Browser
Broadcaster
Fuzzy Project Preprocessor
10
tested and tuned before being considered in the decision-making stage.
Second, a verified fuzzy model must be compiled to a DLL binary file, which can
then be invoked in runtime by the Fuzzy Executing Agent. The capability of dynamic
linking the DLL binary file is the main characteristic of real-time decision making in
this study.
Thirdly, an application program that can call a fuzzy project must be designed as
an Agent, such that the Agent can automatically invoke the fuzzy project to perform
the inference process. An event-driven database is adopted to initiate the inference
process automatically. The database can generate an updating event and execute the
given procedures whenever new data are added to it. This study adopted MySQL as
the working database. Since MySQL has trigger functionality for changing data,
event-driven procedures can easily be defined in the SQL statements. Figure 2
illustrates the syntax of user-defined event-driven procedures. This study refers to the
user-defined event-driven procedures as a Data Updating Agent.
Fig. 2 The syntax of event-driven procedures.
Any data collecting devices, such as keyboards, data terminals embedded into
numeric machines, barcode readers and RFID systems, can be adopted to gather data.
The Data Updating Agent can automatically incorporate newly acquired data into
database, and record the change in the update logs. A Data Updating Monitor,
Create Trigger Trigger File Monitoring time Monitoring event
On Table
For Each Row
Begin
[User-Defined Procedures]
End
12
5.2 The fuzzy logic model
Based on discussions and conclusions of the related departments managers, this
study summarizes some significant variables, such as breakdown complexity,
maintenance capability, work place interference and managerial strategy, to create the
fuzzy model. Breakdown complexity is generally determined with factors such as
breakdown degree, machine age and maintenance status. The maintenance status may
be preventive, corrective or detection-based. Maintenance personnel numbers and
skill levels determine maintenance capability. Field spaces, managerial culture and
strategy, and lateral relations are typically synthesized to generate an interference
index. The final output, called MT_prob, is computed from the breakdown complexity,
interference and maintenance capability, and represents the probability that a broken
machine can be refitted in a given time. The production controller can adopt the
MT_prob index to make an appropriate decision according to a break-even cost
function.
This study applied the most commonly adopted fuzzy inference scheme, the
Mamdani method (Mamdani and Assilian, 1975), to create the fuzzy project. The
Mamdani-style fuzzy process consists of four steps: fuzzification of the input
variables; rule evaluation; aggregation of the rule output, and finally defuzzification
of the output and generalization of the crisp output.
Table 1 presents the respective linguistic members of the summarized variables. A
questionnaire method was used to obtain the domain experiences of ten experts.
Originally, 352 rules were gathered. Some rules were redundant, and were simplified
and combined with set theory. The number of rules was eventually reduced to 268.
Decision rules can usualy be represented in the form “If …Then …”. Figure 3 shows
partial decision rules in spreadsheet format. The membership functions of respective
14
system.
Fig. 4. Membership functions.
The related application programs were coded in VB. Figure 5 illustrates an
example interface of Fuzzy Executing Agent, in which the Fuzzy Executing Agent
invokes a fuzzy project caled “maintain.ftr” (a DLL file compiled using fuzzyTECH). 
The given input parameters in Fig. 5 indicate that MT_prob =0.65884.
Additionally, several databases were designed to gather production and resource
data. The Fuzzy Executing Agent can automatically collect the required information
from these databases when the machine breaks down and the Fuzzy Executing Agent
is initiated. The names and functions of the databases are as follows:
BKD_degree MC_age PM_status
MT_mpower MT_skill ITF_element
BKD_complex MT_capa MT_prob
16
Fig. 6 The viewing example of the inferred results.
5.4 Project testing and tuning
The most important step in verifying project availability is to apply practical data
to train and refine the proposed model. Three hundred recent maintenance records
were applied for model testing. To estimate the possible expectation time precisely,
the completion times of the maintenance logs were classified into five ranks: below
0.5 hours (45 records); below 1 hour and greater than 0.5 hours (74 records); below 2
hours and greater than 1 hour (86 records); below 3 hours and greater than 2 hours (55
records), and above 3 hours (40 records). In the testing phase, 30 new cases were
applied to test the correctness of the proposed model. The difference between the
measured and actual repair times was lower than 10%. The production controller was
satisfied with this estimated result, and employed the project to make daily
maintenance decisions.
6. Discussion and conclusions
Managers today have to work toward enhancing their competitive position by
providing timely responses to inquires, and delivering quality products in a timely
manner. The main goal of manufacturing and distribution systems is to implement
cost-effective on-line, real-time information systems. Real-time information system
18
References
Adebiyi, K.A., Ojediran J.O., Oyenuga, O.A., 2004. An appraisal of maintenance
practice in food industries in Nigeria. Journal of Food Engineering. 62, 131-133.
Al-Najjar, B., Alsyouf, I., 2003. Selecting the most efficient maintenance approach using
fuzzy multiple criteria decision making. International Journal of Production
Economics. 84, 85-100.
Baykoç, Ö.F., Erol, S., 1998. Simulation modelling and analysis of a JIT production system.
International Journal of Production Economics. 55, 203-212,
Belt, B., 1987. MRP and Kanban –A possible synergy? Production and Inventory
Management Journal. First Quarter, 71-80.
Benton, W.C., Shin, H., 1998. Manufacturing planning and control: The evolution of MRP
and JIT integration. European Journal of Operational Research. 110, 411-440.
Beskese, A., Kahraman, C., Irani, Z., 2004. Quantification of flexibility in advanced
manufacturing systems using fuzzy concept. International Journal of Production
Economics. 89, 45-56.
Chen, R. S., Lu, K. Y., Yu, S. C., Tzeng, H. W., Chang, C. C., 2003. A case study in
the design of BTO/CTO shop floor control system. Information and Management.
41(1), 25-37.
Chen, R.S., Lu, K.Y. Chang, C.C., 2003. Application of the multi-agent approach in
just-in-time production control system. International Journal of Computer
Applications in Technology. 17(2), 90-100.
Cowling, P., Johansson, M., 2002. Using real time information for effective dynamic
scheduling. European Journal of Operational Research. 139, 230-244.
fuzzyTECH, 2001. fuzzyTECH 5.5 User’s Manual. INFORM Gmbh, Germany.
20
Petrovic, D., Roy, R., Petrovic, R., 1999. Supply chain modeling using fuzzy sets.
International Journal of Production Economics. 59, 443-453.
Pham, H., Wang, H., 1996. Imperfect maintenance. European Journal of Operational
Research. 94, 425-438.
Scarf, P.A., 1997. On the application of mathematical models in maintenance.
European Journal of Operational Research. 99, 493-506.
Sokołowski, A., 2004. On some aspects of fuzzy logic application in machine 
monitoring and diagnosis. Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence. 17,
429-437.
Sriram, C., Haghani, A., 2003. An optimization model for aircraft maintenance
scheduling and re-assignment. Transportation Research Part A. 37, 29-48.
Stoop, P.P.M., Wiers, V.C.S., 1996. The complexity of scheduling in practice.
International Journal of Operational and Production Management. 16(10), 37-53.
Swanson, L., 2001. Linking maintenance strategies to performance. International
Journal of Production Economics. 70, 237-244.
Waeyenbergh, G., Pitelon, L., 2004. Maintenance concept development: A case study.
International Journal of Production Economics. 89, 395-405.
Wang, H., 2002. A survey of maintemance policies of deteriorating systems. European
Journal of Operational Research. 139, 469-489.
White, R.E., Pearson J.N., Wilson, J.R., 1999. JIT manufacturing: A survey of
implementations in small and large U.S. manufacturers. Management Science. 45(1),
1-15.
Yao, A.C., Carlson, J.G.., 1999. The impact of real-time data communication on
inventory management. International Journal of production Economics. 59,
213-219.
Yu, R., Iung, B., Panetto, H., 2003. A multi-agents based E-maintenance system with
