cells, and therefore reduce the area of light-
blocking electrodes on the front sides of devices. In 
other words, the vertical device structure enlarges 
the area for light emission or absorption. At same 
time, the full back contact also reduces the turn-on 
voltage due to the decreased contact resistance. 
英文關鍵詞： GaN, Si substrate, ZnO, nanorods, lattice constant, 
thermal expansion coefficient, solar cells 
 
 2
(二)中、英文摘要及關鍵詞 (keywords)。 
中文摘要 
 本計畫利用自組形成的 ZnO奈米陣列，作為 GaN與 Si基板之間的磊晶緩衝層，希望減少 GaN的
晶格應力，以增加 GaN on Si的結晶品質。 
以矽取代藍寶石，作為氮化物磊晶層的基板，不但能降低製造成本，還能降低元件的驅動電壓、
提升散熱效率，並增加發光二極體的發光面積。正因為這些優點，早在 1998年，結合矽基板與氮化物
的磊晶技術就得到科學家的關注了。但目前藍寶石基板還是主流商品，顯示矽基板上的磊晶技術，還
有尚待突破的瓶頸。 
以矽為基板最大的難度在於，矽與氮化鎵的晶格常數與熱膨脹係數差異過大，當氮化鎵薄膜達到
一定的厚度時，就會因晶格間劇烈的應力拉扯而產生龜裂。因此，矽基板上的氮化鎵薄膜厚度很難超
過 1.5 μm。近來的研究發現，當磊晶層與基板的接觸面積在 1 μm2以下時，磊晶層的應力就不易被累
積，可避免龜裂的產生。許多實驗結果也顯示，以奈米柱陣列作為氮化鎵與矽之間的緩衝層，能避免
磊晶層與基板的全面接觸，把應力與晶格缺陷侷限在很小範圍，可得到品質更佳的磊晶層。但是，現
階段的奈米陣列緩衝層，大多有賴微影、蝕刻技術的加工，不但良率低，也需要昂貴的製程設備。在
本計畫中，我們希望避開微影蝕刻的方法，以成本更低的設備，如高溫爐管、化學溶液、甚至直接在
MOCVD 反應爐裡，在矽基板上合成自主形成的氮化鎵或氧化鋅奈米陣列，作為磊晶緩衝層，進一步
提升氮化鎵在矽基板上的品質。 
 
英文摘要 
 Growth of GaN on Si has drawn intensive research activities in the last decade. These efforts are driven 
by the desire to cut the high cost of sapphire, the most commonly used substrate for nitride-based devices. Si 
substrates are not only cheaper, their high thermal and electrical conductivities are also attractive in terms of 
device performances. Specifically, the 3-time-higher thermal conductivity of Si, with respect to that of 
sapphire, leads to improved heat dissipation during high-power operation, prolonging device lifetimes. 
Moreover, the electrically conductive Si substrates also allow full back contacts for light-emitting diodes or 
solar cells, and therefore reduce the area of light-blocking electrodes on the front sides of devices. In other 
words, the vertical device structure enlarges the area for light emission or absorption. At same time, the full 
back contact also reduces the turn-on voltage due to the decreased contact resistance. 
 
關鍵詞 (keywords) 
 GaN, Si substrate, ZnO, nanorods, lattice constant, thermal expansion coefficient, solar cells. 
 
 
 
 
中   華   民   國 101 年 10 月 20 日 
 
 
 4
  
 
      
 
 
As the growth of GaN on ZnO NRAs/Si is still under development, we decided to firstly adopt 
conventional AlN/AlGaN buffer layer to grow and fabricate InGaN/GaN multiple-quantum-well (MQW) solar 
cells on Si substrates, which would help us explore the characteristics of the solar cells with GaN-on-Si 
epilayers. 
The MQW solar cells were grown by MOCVD on (111) Si substrates. Free carrier concentrations for 
n-type and p-type GaN are around 2×1018 cm-3 and 5×1017 cm-3, respectively. Ammonia (NH3) wase used as 
the precursor for N in all layers; trimethylaluminum (TMA) and trimethylgallium (TMG) for the AlN/AlGaN 
superlattice; TMG for n-GaN and p-GaN; triethylgallium (TEG) and trimethylindium (TMI) for the MQW. 
Substrate temperature for the AlN/AlGaN superlattice, n-GaN and p-GaN, the MQW were 720 °C, 1120 °C, 
860 °C, respectively. 
Device fabrication was carried out with standard procedures. After the cleaning with acetone, 
isopropanol, and de-ionized water, photolithography was used to define the 1×1 mm2 mesa area.  Inductively 
coupled plasma etching was then used to expose the n-GaN area. The transparent contact layer on p-GaN was 
made by Ni(5 nm)/Au(5 nm) deposited with e-beam evaporation system, followed by an annealing process at 
500 °C in air for 10 minutes. Finally, the layers of Cr(5 nm)/Au(300 nm) were deposited on p-GaN and n-GaN 
to form the electrodes.  
Figure 4(a) shows the layer structure of the MQW solar cell on (111) Si substrate. The structure starts 
with an three-period AlN/AlGaN superlattice, which is employed to accommodate the lattice mismatch 
between GaN and Si and to relieve the tensile stress in GaN. Between each period of AlN/AlGaN, a SixNy 
masking layer is inserted with the attempt to block the undesired threading dislocations propagating toward 
Fig. 2. The ZnO NRAs synthesized on 2-inch Si 
substrate (left) and the bare Si substrate (right). 
Fig. 3. SEM images of the GaN grown on ZnO NRAs/Si: (a) top-view; (b) cross-section. 
 6
結果與討論: 
Figure 5 presents the room-temperature photoluminescence (PL) spectra recorded on the MQW. In 
addition to the main peak at 441 nm, the MQW also give sharp emissions at 389 nm, 501 nm, 533 nm, 537 nm 
and 587 nm. These sharp peaks are suspected to arise from In-Ga segregation, which is caused by the low 
miscibility of InN in GaN and commonly observed in InGaN alloys. The segregated indium has a tendency to 
form dot-like regions, where carriers are confined three-dimensionally. The radiative recombination in these 
dot-like nanostructures becomes extremely efficient and thus leads to the very small half-widths of the 
secondary peaks. It is worthwhile to mention that the enhanced quantum confinement, if prevalent via 
favorable growth conditions, is of potential for the applications in quantum dot solar cells. In this new type of 
solar cell, the thermal loss through phonon emission resulted from the excessive photon energy above 
bandgap can be dramatically reduced due to the slowed hot carrier cooling rates, and therefore η increases 
significantly. From the observed emission behavior in Figure 5, the absorption efficiency of the MQW is 
expected to peak at some wavelength below 440 nm. This supposition is based on the different mechanisms in 
photon emission and absorption processes. In emission, electrons generally relax to the lowest energy states 
before being recombined with holes, whereas in absorption the carriers can be pumped to higher states as long 
as the absorbed photon energy is sufficient to trigger the carrier excitation. Since solar irradiance is 
maximized at the wavelengths between 500 – 550 nm, increasing indium incorporation in the MQW would be 
necessary for long wavelength absorption. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 PL spectra performed on the InGaN/GaN MQW solar cell. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8
 
Fig. 8. J-V curves of the MQW solar cell measured under AM 1.5G with different solar concentrations. 
 
the EQE is maximized at the wavelength of 360 nm, i.e. below the emission peak wavelength. It is noticed 
that the EQE envelope is not symmetric about the peak intensity at 360nm, indicated by the dot line in the 
figure. The efficiency tail extended into the long wavelength region (λ > 400 nm) is another indication of 
In-Ga segregation in the quantum wells. The nonuniform distribution of indium contents results in some 
active regions with the bandgap energies smaller than the average values, and thus leads to the absorption of 
additional long-wavelength photons. Similar observations have been reported in our previous studies.[25,26] 
Photovoltaic properties of the solar cells on Si substrate are revealed in Figure 8, where the J-V curves 
are characterized under the illumination of solar simulator AM 1.5G with different concentration conditions. 
The measured device performances are summarized in Table I. In agreement with the estimated value using 
EQE spectrum, the measured Jsc is around 0.12 mA/cm2. As the growth conditions on Si substrate are still in 
the early stage of optimization, the Jsc presented here is lower than those reported on sapphire 
substrates.[25,26][28,29] The limited photocurrent is mainly caused by the lack of absorption in the wavelength 
range giving strong solar irradiance. The problem can be solved by increasing indium contents in the active 
region, which is usually achieved at the expense of crystal qualities. Emphasis of Figure 8 should be placed on 
the dramatic improvement of device performances under concentrated solar intensities. Increasing solar 
concentration from 1-sun to 50-sun improves Jsc and Voc by 6058 % and 22 %, respectively. This corresponds 
to the enhancement of η by 55 %. The improvement in Jsc is due to the increased number of photocarriers at 
high solar concentrations, while that in Voc comes from the logarithmic dependence on Jsc:  
                                                                         
where n, k, T, q and J0 are ideality factor, Boltzmann constant, temperature, electronic charge and the diode 
saturation current density, respectively. It should be noted that the benefits brought by high solar 
concentrations are always accompanied by the side effect of junction heating, which in general degrades the 
photovoltaic performances via the shrinkage of Voc.[30] The increased Voc at 50-sun condition tells that the 
improvement contributed by Jsc outweighs the negative effects induced by junction heating. 
Special attention should be drawn to the increasing FF with concentration ratios, i.e. from FF = 67 % at 
1-sun to FF = 71 % at 50-sun, which is an important reason for the greatly improved η at 50-sun. This 
increasing trend of FF on Si is in contrast to the decreasing FF of the devices built on sapphire substrates 
under concentrated solar illuminations.[28,29] The distinct behaviors between the FF’s on Si and on sapphire are 
 10
The substantially higher temperature on sapphire adversely affects FF by the increased saturation current 
density J0, which reduces shunt resistance of the diode and makes the J-V curve less square.[36] The strong 
temperature dependence of J0 is well known according to the relationship: [37]  
                                                               
where D and L are respectively the diffusivity and diffusion length of the minority carriers, ND the doping, ni 
the intrinsic carrier concentration, Eg0 the bandgap at 0 K and B is a temperature-independent constant. The 
exponential and third-power dependence of T makes J0 dramatically increased as the concentration ratio rises. 
In comparison with the case on sapphire, it is believed the superior cooling ability of Si substrate delays heat 
accumulation in the active region, and therefore weakens the effect degrading FF through J0. Combining the 
effects of parasitic mitigation and thermal degradation, the InGaN MQW solar cells fabricated on Si substrates 
enjoy the advantage of fast heat dissipation over their counterparts on sapphire, making GaN-on-Si an 
attractive material system for concentrator solar cells. 
In summary, InGaN/GaN MQW solar cells were grown on (111) Si substrates with strain-relieving 
AlN/AlGaN superlattice buffer layers. The AlN/AlGaN superlattice led to crack-free and mirror-like epitaxial 
surface on the 2-inch substrate. Well-defined InGaN satellite peaks revealed by ω-2θ XRD scan indicate sharp 
well/barrier interfaces in the MQW. Under the illumination of 1-sun AM1.5G, the solar cell gives a limited η 
of 0.11 %, which is primarily due to the insufficient optical absorption in the long-wavelength region. 
Photovoltaic performances of the MQW solar cells were considerably boosted at high solar concentrations. 
These improvements exceeded those reported on sapphire substrates, and the results were attributed to the 
greater cooling capability of Si.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 2
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
  無。 
四、建議 
  無。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
  會議議程及會議論文摘要總集。 
六、其他 
  無。 
 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：賴昆佑 計畫編號：100-2218-E-008-015- 
計畫名稱：以自主形成之奈米結構來輔助成長矽基板上的氮化鎵磊晶層 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 1 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
