I、Abstract： 
(一)中文摘要 
關鍵詞：週期結構，光子晶體，時域有限差分法，快速多偶極演算法，週期矩量法 
 
本國際合作計畫(國立中央大學與美國德州大學阿靈頓分校)主要目的為開發可分析以光子
晶體結構為基礎而設計之光學元件的電腦輔助工具(computer aided tool)。計畫由中央大學
陳念偉博士與美國德州大學阿靈頓分校陸明宇(Mingyu Lu)博士與周緯東(Weidong Zhou)
博士共同執行。中央大學主要負責電腦輔助設計工具之開發，德州大學主要負責光學元件
之設計與製作及電腦輔助設計工具之驗證。在電腦輔助設計工具開發方面，中央大學將建
立有效率及準確之時域(time-domain)與頻域(frequency-domain)電磁全波解答器
(electromagnetic full-wave solver)。時域解答器建立上採用時域有限差分法(finite-difference 
time-domain)，並透過平行化(parallelization)方式提昇效率; 而頻域解答器將採用週期矩
量法(periodic method of moments) ，透過快速多偶極演算法(fast multipole method)及週期
格忍函數(periodic Green’s function)計算平行化提昇效率。為期二年之計畫，完成頻域解答
器與時域有限差分法之建立與元件量測驗證及演算法之平行化，所開發之電腦輔助工具已
應用於於德州大學波散射研究中心(Wave Scattering Research Center)及奈米科技研究與教
學中心(Nanotechnology Research and Teaching Facilities, NanoFAB) 之光學元件研製與改
良。 
 
(二)英文摘要 
Keywords: periodic structure, photonic crystal, finite-difference time-domain (FDTD), fast 
multipole method, periodic method of moments 
 
The proposed international collaborative two-year research aims at developing novel 
computer aided design (CAD) tools for photonic crystal-based optical devices. The research 
was conducted by Dr. Nan-Wei Chen with the National Central University (NCU), Taiwan and 
Dr. Mingyu Lu and Dr. Weidong Zhou with the University of Texas at Arlington (UTA), USA. 
The major part of the proposed research, including the development of the design tools, was 
carried out in NCU, Taiwan. The developed CAD tools is being verified and tested in UTA. 
Specifically, the accurate time-domain (TD) as well as frequency-domain (FD) -CAD tools 
based on electromagnetic full-wave solvers and pertinent to the analysis of the photonic crystal 
structures have been developed and verified. Also, the parallel acceleration for both FD and TD 
solvers proposed predominately for efficiency improvement on the classical FDTD was 
implemented. Experimental study of photonic crystal devices were conducted at the Wave 
Scattering Research Center (WSRC) and the Nanotechnology Research and Teaching Facility 
(NanoFAB) in UTA, and the experimental data were used to verify the design tools. The 
developed CAD tools are expected to be successful aids for the design of photonic crystal 
devices. 
II、Content 
 
Research project’s background and goals: 
Photonic crystals (PCs), semiconductors for light, are engineered material structures with 
periodic modulation in refractive index (one kind of photonic metamaterials). It holds great 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Peak Wavelength (μm)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0 5 10 15 20
0.28
0.42
0.66
r =1.00 μm
1.50
2.25
MWIR
LWIR
FIR
La
tti
ce
 C
on
st
an
t a
 (μ
m
) r
a
QD                                     n
GaAs                                          n
AlGaAs                                barrier i
GaAs                                    n
QD                                         x9 n   
GaAs spacer i
GaAs                                    x9 i
0.5 μm GaAs n=2x1018cm-3
S.I. GaAs Substrate
VM
Figure 1(a) Schematic of the photonic crystal infrared photodetectors (PCIPs); (b) A 
scanning electron micrograph of a fabricated photonic crystals on GaAs (top); Illustration 
of multi-spectral detector arrays (bottom); (c) Photonic crystal design for 
multi-wavelength arrays, along with the photonic crystal hexagonal lattice (inset).The 
required lattice constants a for various sets of air hole radius r are shown for different 
peak wavelengths. Note the complete coverage of infared spectrum regime is feasible for 
Mid-wave, long-wave and far infrared (MWIR, LWIR, FIR) bands 
(a) (c) (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
In this two-year project, integral equation (IE) method was proposed to develop novel simulation 
tools for PCs. IE method is also termed the method of moments. It has no restrictions for the 
problem geometry, hence is a general-purpose method. Indeed, IE is more advantageous when the 
PCs are truly periodic in that the periodic Green’s function can be applied [2]. Compared with 
FDTD, IE method is more accurate, especially for large-scale problems. Nevertheless, up to date, 
quite limited research effort has been reported on applying IE methods to PCs [3, 4], largely 
because of the high computational complexity associated with IE methods. Fortunately, the high 
complexity issue has been successfully tackled due to the recent advances in fast algorithms 
acceleration [5-7]. In this research, two approaches are proposed to relieve the computational 
burden of IE method: (i) fast algorithms; and (ii) parallelization. Specifically, Fast Multipole 
Method (FMM) [8] and Ewald method [9] were used to accelerate the IE solver for non-periodic 
and periodic PCs, respectively; and the fast algorithm enhanced IE solvers will be implemented 
on parallel platforms so that the computational tasks are partitioned into multiple processors with 
distributed memory. The novel IE-based, efficient, and parallel solvers for PCs developed in this 
project is being verified by three means. 
(1) By parallel FDTD code. The novel IE solvers is verified numerically first, by comparing 
their results with the numerical results obtained through FDTD. 
(2) By experiments at the microwave and millimeter wave bands. PCs was fabricated at the 
centimeter and millimeter wave bands and measured at Wave Scattering Research Center 
(WSRC) in UTA. This stage provides a simple and fast confirmation of the simulation 
data, before going to the micro/nano scale, in that the cycle and cost for fabrication and 
measurement at cm and mm bands are much lower. 
(3) By experiments at micro and nano scales. Realistic optical PC devices designed by the 
novel IE solver will be fabricated and tested at the NanoFAB in UTA. The devices include 
infrared spectrometer and surface-emitting laser. 
slab thickness, and wavelength, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 3: Results at infrared band 
 
References: 
 
[1] W. Zhou, "Characteristics of a photonic bandgap single defect microcavity 
electroluminescent device," IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, vol. 37, pp. 1153-1160, 
2001.[ 
[2] A. W. Mathis and A. F. Peterson, "Efficient electromagnetic analysis of a doubly infinite 
array of rectangular apertures," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, 
vol. 46, pp. 46-54, 1998. 
[3] L. F. Shen, S. L. He, and L. Wu, "The application of effective-medium theory in the 
plane-wave expansion method for analyzing photonic crystals," Acta Physica Sinica, vol. 
51, pp. 1133-1138, 2002. 
[4] S. S. Xiao, L. F. Shen, and S. L. He, "A plane-wave expansion method based on the 
effective medium theory for calculating the band structure of a two-dimensional photonic 
crystal," Physics Letters A, vol. 313, pp. 132-138, 2003. 
[5] B. Shanker, M. Lu, A. A. Ergin, and E. Michielssen, "Plane-wave time-domain 
accelerated radiation boundary kernels for FDTD analysis of 3-D electromagnetic 
phenomena," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 53, pp. 3704-3716, 
2005. 
[6] J. M. Song and W. C. Chew, "Large Scale Computing with the Fast Illinois Solver 
Code-Requirements Scaling Properties," IEEE Computational Science and Engineering, 
vol. 5, pp. 19-23, 1998. 
[7] J. S. Zhao and W. C. Chew, "Integral equation solution of Maxwell's equations from zero 
frequency to microwave frequencies," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, 
vol. 48, pp. 1635-1645, 2000. 
[8] K. Donepudi, J. M. Jin, S. Velamparambil, J. M. Song, and W. C. Chew, "A higher-order 
parallelized multilevel fast multipole algorithm for 3-D scattering," IEEE Transactions on 
Antennas and Propagation, vol. 49, pp. 1069-1078, 2001. 
 
[9]     P. P. Ewald, “Die berechnung optischer und elektrostatischen gitterpotentiale,” Ann. Phys., 
(Germany), vol. 64, pp. 253–268, 1921. 
 
Self-evaluation 
1. All tasks in the Gant chart were mostly done as scheduled, except the experimental 
verfication. The delay is owing to the lack of dielectric substrate for the fabrication of the 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                            98 年 1 月 2 日 
報告人姓名  陳念偉 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
中央大學電機系助理教授 
 
時間 
會議 
地點 
97/12/16-97/12/19 
Hong Kong,China 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC97-2221-E-008-023 
會議 
名稱 
APMC 2008 Symposium 
發表 
論文 
題目 
A compact, ultra-broadband coplanar-waveguide bandpass filter with 
good stopband rejection 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者國際合作計畫 
出國成果報告書 
計畫編號 
計畫名稱 
97-2221-E-008-023
光子晶體之電腦輔助設
計 (二) 
執行單位 中央大學電機系 
出國人員 陳念偉 助理教授 出國日期 97 年 7 月 1 日 至
97 年 7 月 14 日，共
14 日 
出國地點: 美國德州大學阿靈頓分校 
一、目的 
 
赴美國德州大學阿靈頓分校波散射研究中心(Wave Scattering Research Center)
及奈米科技研究與教學中心(Nanotechnology Research and Teaching Facilities, 
NanoFAB) 與美國德州大學阿靈頓分校陸明宇 (Mingyu Lu)博士與周緯東
(Weidong Zhou)博士進行短期(二週) 國際合作計畫研討並於美國德州大學阿靈
頓分校電機系 IEEE Antennas and Propagation Seminar, Fort Worth Chapter 時段針
對週期結構之全波電磁分析方法講演。此國際合作計畫為第二年之延續計畫，由
本人與美國德州大學阿靈頓分校陸明宇(Mingyu Lu)博士與周緯東(Weidong 
Zhou)博士共同執行。中央大學主要負責電腦輔助設計工具之開發，德州大學主
要負責光學元件之設計與製作及電腦輔助設計工具之驗證。此次短期計畫研討之
目的是希望藉由計畫參與人員之實地商討與意見交流，解決現有計畫執行問題與
掌控計畫執行成效，並藉此機會觀摩合作方之研究設備，以進行資源整合。 
 
二、過程 
本人於7月 1日 1傍晚搭乘長榮航空於美國當地時間7月 1日深夜抵達阿靈頓
市，於美國德州大學阿靈頓分校停留期間生活起居主要由美國德州大學阿靈頓分
校陸明宇(Mingyu Lu)博士負責安排，美國德州大學阿靈頓分校為國科會主要之國
際合作大學之一，該校研發重點領域為：Biotechnology and Health Care; 
Manufacturing and Chemical Processes; Nanotechnology。計畫執行人之一周
緯東(Weidong Zhou)博士為該校奈米科技研究與教學中心(Nanotechnology Resear
過 ch and Teaching Facilities, NanoFAB)之主要研究成員。本人於 7月 2日入住該校
之 GUEST HOUSE 並短暫休息後，於 7月 3日早上由陸明宇(Mingyu Lu)博士帶領至
該校電機系與系主任 Dr. Jonathan Bredow 進行約半小時之晤談，Dr. Bredow 之研
究專長為 Microwave imaging and measurements of radar cross-section, Low power radar 
design and development with application to measurements of crops and sea ice. 當日中午
與計畫成員周博士餐敘後前往波散射研究中心之電磁無反射室(anechoic chamber) 
實地瞭解光子晶體結構量測系統之設置，期間陸博士利用此機會實地說明計畫執
行過程中結構量測上所遭遇之問題以及問題解決之方法。雖然是短短三十分鐘之
實地參訪，但卻讓我穫益良多，也對光子晶體結構量測技術有了更深入之認識與
 1
