2 
 
除了上述用以術前規劃切除位置外，
還可用於骨釘骨板的設計，如Nolte在[5-7]
提出電腦模擬插入螺釘的脊椎手術，結合
圖像引導(Image-guided)與光電位置感應技
術 (Optoelectronic position sensing 
techniques)在手術中進行定位，以提高其手
術的安全性與準確性。Peters等[8]提到除了
脊椎手術外，骨盆髖臼關節手術(關節翻修
手術，腫瘤手術)也可利用電腦輔助定位的
技術來鎖入螺釘，並利用 RP (Rapid 
prototyping)原型做驗證，以提高其手術的
安全性與準確性。上述都是利用電腦輔助
手術進行的案例，其目的都是為了減少手
術時間、提高手術安全性與準確性，而其
它文獻[9,10]也證實了在電腦的輔助下，確
實提高了手術的安全性與準確性。 
 
本研究目的為發展一以三維醫學影像
為基礎之骨盆術前評估系統，主要具有以
下功能：(1)三維顯示與操作平台：將序列
影像利用立體渲染(Volume rendering)之顯
示技術，以三維的方式呈現，並提供操作
介面，可對影像進行即時瀏覽，更可搭配
二維影像切層，在二維與三維的配合下，
評估骨折情形，擬定手術計劃；(2)骨組織
分離與網格模型重建：利用影像切割的技
術，將各個骨折組織分離出來，再將其重
建為三維網格模型建立其拓樸關係，以利
後續骨組織復位及各種分析模擬；(3)骨盆
骨折處復位：由於骨盆骨折手術的目的為
恢復骨盆環的穩定性，因此須開發骨組織
復位的功能，將骨折的組織移回原本位
置，讓醫師依此復位的結果作為術前評估
的依據；(4)植入物安裝模擬與復位後模型
輸出：骨折處復位後，依據其斷裂的型式，
規劃植入物固定的位置與形狀，以減少醫
師手術中的詴誤時間，並將此植入物與復
位後的 CAD 模型輸出。 
 
三、材料與方法 
圖1說明骨盆術前評估系統的流程，程
序有五個主要步驟，先將2D序列影像重建
為3D影像顯示，接著將各個骨組織分離，
並重建為網格模型，利用網格模型間的拓
撲關係進行復位，最後根據此復位後的網
格模型進行重建行骨板的設計。本節說明
骨盆術前評估系統之相關技術。 
 
圖1 骨盆術前評估系統的流程 
 
3.1 三維影像顯示 
三維CT影像顯示為整個骨盆手術評估
系統的基礎，利用立體渲染的顯示技術，
將電腦斷層影像的三維資訊投影到二維螢
幕上，獲得逼真的顯示效果，以彌補二維
影像缺乏 3D空間感之缺陷，對於骨盆骨折
而言，觀看三維影像遠比二維更容易掌握
骨折裂縫的位置。如圖 2 所示，利用立體
渲染技術顯示骨盆的範例，根據電腦斷層
影像灰階值的不同，依序以「皮膚」、「骨
骼」顯示。 
 
立體渲染法的概念是將 CT影像中每個
不同灰階值的體素點設定一透明度，再藉
由光線追跡法的原理進行成像，而所投射
的光線因透明度的關係會穿透到內層，進
而達到豐富的顯示效果，詳細的演算法細
節請參閱[11]。 
 
4 
精確的結果，因此就必須透過精定位流程
使得移動點群更逼近於參考點群。精定位
為一自動化的流程，使用 ICP (Iterative 
closest point)的程序，其方式為建立一目標
函數，代表移動點群與參考點群之均方根
誤差，其中未知參數為空間中之三個位移
量與三個旋轉量，運用數值分析方法求解
六個未知參數，使得該目標函數值最小。 
 
圖 3 為定位程序示意圖，首先利用鏡
射的方式將原本完整無損壞的骨骼鏡射，
如圖 3(a)所示。接著以無破損的骨骼為參
考，非別以人工定義出破損與無破損骨骼
上的一點幾何特徵點，如圖 3(b)上之橘點
與 3(c)上之藍點所示。最後進行復位演算
法，自動將兩筆資料疊合，如圖 3(d)所示。
依照此方法能夠將所有破損的骨頭復位至
合理位置。 
 
    
     (a)               (b)  
    
     (c)               (d)  
圖 3 單點自動定位程序，(a)欲定位至兩筆
骨骼資料，(b)破損骨骼資料，(c)無破
損骨骼資料，(d)自動定位。 
 
3.5 重建型骨板設計 
 一般而言，骨板設計主要分為兩種方
法：(1)既有骨板彎折：在骨板外型(通常為
標準長條型骨板)已經決定後，根據復位後
骨盆模型，將長條型骨板彎折為與復位後
骨盆相符合的形狀。(2)骨板生成：在骨板
外型尚未決定之前，先行規劃骨板外型路
徑，根據此路徑產生彎折後的骨板。本研
究中骨板設計所使用的方法為第二種，其
概念為根據骨板主軸的路徑，將基本元件
依路徑放置到復位後的網格模型上，再連
接每個基本元件間的拓撲關係，詳細演算
法請參閱[12] 
 
四、結果與討論 
研究中以骨盆CT斷層掃瞄DICOM資
料為範例，說明所提出的骨盆骨折復位的
適用性。如圖 4 所示，範例中為骨盆骨折
之 CT 影像，像素間距為 0.703mm，切層
間距為 0.625mm。將此組影像以三維模型
顯示並觀察其骨折情形，初步觀察，其骨
折部位為左髂骨，此組骨折的情形較為單
純，只有左髂骨斷裂。利用上述流程依序
將骨骼區域分離與網格重建，重建結果如
圖 5 所示，進行破裂骨骼復位，此組骨盆
只有左髂骨斷裂，故選擇自動流程來進行
復位，按照自動復位的流程，將所有碎骨
復位，復位結果如圖 6 所示，復位完畢後，
依據復位後的網格模型規劃骨板安裝路
徑，骨板規劃結果如圖 7 所示，整個流程
所花費時間約為 7 分鐘。 
 
 
圖4 三維CT顯示 
 
6 
computer assistance: a randomized 
controlled clinical study in 100 consecutive 
patients”, European Spine Journal, Vol. 9, 
pp. 235-240, 2000.  
[10] O. Schwarzenbach, U. Berlemann, B. Jost, 
H. Visarius, E. Arm, F. Langlotz, L. P. 
Nolte and C. Ozdoba “Accuracy of 
computer assisted pedicle screw placement 
an in vivo computed tomography analysis”, 
Spine, Vol. 22, pp. 452-458, 1997.  
[11] 羅賴均 , “醫學影像之三維顯示與骨組織
三角網格重建技術探討”, 國立中央大學
機械工程學系碩士論文, 2009. 
[12] 莊曜瑋 , “電腦輔助下顎骨切割與重建手
術規劃”, 國立中央大學機械工程學系碩
士論文, 2010. 
附件-出席國際學術會議論文 
Computer-Aided Design & Applications, 8(a), 2011, bbb-ccc 
© 2011 CAD Solutions, LLC 
 
1 
 
Simultaneous Segmentation of Bone Regions Using Multiple-Level 
Threshold 
 
Huang C. Y.1, Lee P. Y.2, Lai J. Y.3, Luo L. J.4, Tsai Y. C.5 and Lin S.C.6  
 
1National Central University, Taoyuan, ROC, 94340304@cc.ncu.edu.tw 
2Show Chwan Memorial Hospital, Changhua, ROC, hary7700@yahoo.com.tw 
3National Central University, Taoyuan, ROC, jylai@ncu.edu.tw 
4Pou Yuen Technology Ltd., Changhua , ROC, 963203069@cc.ncu.edu.tw 
5Pou Yuen Technology Ltd., Changhua , ROC, s1343011@cc.ncu.edu.tw 
6National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taipei, ROC, xyz@mail.ntust.edu.tw 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Conventional approaches to segmenting skeletal structures include extracting 2D 
contour profiles on the 2D image domain and performing 3D region growing to 
acquire the 3D bone region directly. However, as far as multiple pieces of bones 
segmentation are concerned, these methods are not accurate or efficient enough as 
each bone must be processed one by one. The purpose of this study is to present a 
method for multiple bones segmentation. A seed regions generation algorithm is 
proposed to automatically generate an initial region on each bone of interest. The seed 
regions are then expanded iteratively. In this process, simultaneous region growing is 
employed to control the moving speed of the fronts, which can reduce the occurrence 
of overflow. An investigation of the initial threshold and target threshold is also 
conducted and appropriate methods to optimize the values are provided. Moreover, 
five cases of lower limbs are employed to demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed 
method. 
 
Keywords: 3D bone reconstruction, contour detection, thresholding, multiple-level 
threshold. 
DOI: 10.3722/cadaps.2011.xxx-yyy 
附件-出席國際學術會議論文 
Computer-Aided Design & Applications, 8(a), 2011, bbb-ccc 
© 2011 CAD Solutions, LLC 
 
3 
Another type of region growing involves providing rules to determine the similarity between the tested 
voxel and the growing region locally. Seeded region growing [9] (SRG) employs the mean and standard 
deviation of the growing region to determine the similarity of the tested pixel and the growing region; while 
unseeded region growing [10] (URG) emphasizes automatic determination of seeded points, with the same 
growing criteria as those shown in SRG. Justice et al. [11] modified the SRG algorithm by extending the 
search to 3D and generating the seeds automatically through the use of thresholds. Revol-Muller et al. [5] 
provided several assessment functions in terms of boundary criteria and region criteria to determine the 
optimal homogeneity criterion for 3D region growing. Sekiguchi and Sano [12] employed two criteria in 
accordance with the difference between adjacent pixels and the difference between the tested pixel and the 
seed point, respectively, to determine the homogeneity criterion. A leakage removal procedure was also 
implemented to extract and remove leakage regions automatically. Hojjatoleslami and Kittler [13] defined an 
average contrast measure in terms of two boundaries: current boundary, which was the set of pixels adjacent 
to the current region, and internal boundary, which was the boundary produced by the set of connected 
outermost pixels of the current region. They claimed that region growing produced increasing average 
contrast measure values as long as high intensity pixels were continuously included. Pohle and Toennies [14] 
conducted adaptive region growing in which an upper bound and a lower bound of the thresholds in terms 
of the mean and standard deviation of the neighborhoods around the seed point were defined. Two runs of 
region growing were presented. The first run was employed for evaluating homogeneity parameters, while 
the second run was employed for extracting the region.  
 
As for the segmentation of skeletal structures, Kwan et al. [15] proposed an approach composed of gap 
pixel identification, fragment filtering and gap extension and widening for automatic extraction of bone 
boundaries on 2D images, especially for narrow gaps. A fuzzy multilevel thresholding algorithm was 
employed to deal with the overlapping of the intensity distribution of different tissues on the histogram. 
Kang et al. [16] proposed a highly automated method for the segmentation of 3D bones. They proposed 3D 
region growing in terms of local adaptive thresholds, in which the intensity distribution near the intersection 
of bones and surrounding tissues were fitted into Gaussian functions, by which the upper bound and lower 
bound of the thresholds were determined for growing. This was followed by procedures to correct for 
remaining boundary discontinuities and a subsequent anatomically oriented boundary adjustment using 
local values of cortical bone density.  
 
Wang et al. [17] presented a method to validate the segmentation of CT images and improved the 
accuracy and efficiency of the subsequent registration of the three-dimensional reconstructed surfaces. The 
similarity or coherency of neighboring contours was measured by comparing statistical properties. 
Descoteaux et al. [18] proposed a multi-scale sheet enhancement measure for paranasal sinus bone 
segmentation by means of local shape information obtained from an eigenvalue decomposition of the 
Hessian matrix. Conventional segmentation by thresholding was not suitable for thin bones as it resulted in 
holes and diffuse boundaries due to partial volume effects and noise in CT datasets. Zoroofi et al. [19] 
proposed several techniques for segmenting the pelvis and the femur, in particular, the acetabulum and the 
femoral head in the hip joint. Their method was primarily divided into three steps: preprocessing, histogram 
based thresholding and binary and morphological operations. Their study provided a detailed description of 
the algorithm for each of the steps. Testi et al. [20] focused on the implementation and validation of a 
border-tracing method for the extraction of endosteal canal contours. The result of this method was 
compared with those obtained by the manual method and the threshold-based technique. Westin et al. [21] 
proposed a new solution to the problems caused by constant thresholding based on three-dimensional 
filtering techniques. The fundamental concept of their approach was to design an adaptive filtering 
algorithm to emphasize structures of interest in CT images to make segmentation of bones easier. 
 
In the segmentation of multiple pieces of bones, the most difficult problem is the separation of the 
bones near the joint area. Ideally, adjacent bones are separated by a thin layer of soft tissue and the intensity 
of the soft tissue is different from that of its adjacent bones such that a clear boundary can be recognized. 
However, in real CT images, the boundaries of adjacent bones may become vague when the transition 
between the soft tissue and the bone is not clear enough. This may even result in the leakage of the gray 
values from one region to its neighboring region. The gray levels on such adjacent regions are so similar that 
none of the above threshold-determining techniques can deal with such a problem robustly. In addition, 
when multiple pieces of bones are concerned, the seed points are conventionally assigned manually. Even if 
they are determined automatically, the available algorithms are usually not robust enough to deal with all 
kinds of situations on the CT images. Therefore, it is necessary to develop an integrated procedure that can 
achieve the segmentation of all kinds of bones.  
 
The aim of this study is to present a method for segmenting skeletal structures from two-dimensional 
slices of CT images. An integrated procedure is proposed to make sure that all bone regions can be 
segmented accurately, completely and efficiently. The proposed method includes automatic seed region 
definition, iterative region growing, as well as region re-combination and re-segmentation. In conventional 
附件-出席國際學術會議論文 
Computer-Aided Design & Applications, 8(a), 2011, bbb-ccc 
© 2011 CAD Solutions, LLC 
 
5 
Ti=800 Ti=600 Ti=400  
 
Fig. 2: Real-time display of seed regions in accordance with initial threshold T
i
. 
The target threshold T
t
 essentially determines the surface boundary of the final region. If T
t
 is too large, the 
growing may be stopped before it reaches the desired boundary, which may result in tiny regions or 
incomplete regions. On the contrary, if T
t
 is too small, the growing may overflow, e.g. several regions are 
wrongly connected or part of the surface boundary is over grown. An intensity distribution in accordance 
with the gray values of the entire images can be drawn to show the probability of each gray value, by which a 
rough threshold for the target bone can be determined. However, it is difficult to determine the cut-off 
threshold precisely as the lobes on the intensity plot are overlapped.  
 
The transition of the gray values between the skeletal structure and its surrounding tissues is typically 
large, say over 1000. Thus, when the surface boundary is clear, the target threshold T
t
 can be determined 
easily. However, near the joint area where adjacent bones are separate d by thin layers of soft tissue, the 
transition of the gray values is typically vague. Figure 3 indicates that there is a transition zone composed of 
several pixels between the target bone and its surrounding tissue on the gray-value plot. It is difficult to 
determine the target threshold as the shape of the transition zone and the number of pixels within it is 
changeable. 
 
-1500
-1000
-500
0
500
1000
1500
2000
G
ra
y
 v
al
u
e
Pixels on green scan line
Transition zone 
 
 
Fig. 3: The transition zone between a bone and its surrounding tissue is typically composed of several pixels . 
 
When the boundary curve of two different tissues is available, the optimal threshold can be regarded as the 
average gray value of the pixels on the boundary curve [22]. The following expression can be employed to 
detect the edge boundary: 
 
0,
2
2
2
2







y
f
x
f
yxl )(         (1) 
dyxf  )( ,          (2) 
 
附件-出席國際學術會議論文 
Computer-Aided Design & Applications, 8(a), 2011, bbb-ccc 
© 2011 CAD Solutions, LLC 
 
7 
 
Seed region growing 
This stage is made up of two procedures: automatic seed-point assignment and initial region growing. The 
seed-point assignment and initial region growing are performed in pairs. Whenever a seed point is assigned, 
it follows the growing of the initial region corresponding to that seed point. This ensures that all voxels of 
similar gray values are assigned to the same region. The following two rules are employed to check if a voxel 
is a seed point: 
 
(1) The voxel hasn’t been grown. 
(2) Its gray value is larger than the initial threshold T
i
. 
 
If both rules are satisfied, the voxel is assigned as a seed point. 
 
(a)
(c)
(b)
(d)
First seed point
First seed region 
Second seed region
Second seed point
Third seed point
Third seed region
 
                                                                           (a)                                                
(b) (a)
(c)
(b)
(d)
First seed point
First seed region 
Second seed region
Second seed point
Third seed point
Third seed region
 
                                                                           (c)                                                 
(d) 
 
Fig. 5: Seed regions growing, (a) scanning the first seed point, (b) generating the first seed region, (c) 
generating the second seed point, and seed region, and (d) generating the last seed point and seed region. 
 
Initial region growing is implemented as follows. Starting from the seed point, its six neighborhoods are 
tested in sequence to check if the above two rules are satisfied. Whenever a voxel is found, it is put into an 
array. Each voxel on the array is then tested to find its neighborhoods which satisfy the above two rules. All 
voxels found are also put into the array. Such a test is repeated until all voxels on the array have been tested, 
which finishes the growing. It is noted that a seed point may be located on a noised region. Therefore, a 
minimum number of voxels in a region is specified to avoid the generation of noised regions. 
 
The overall procedure of seed region growing can be summarized as follows: Starting from the first voxel 
on the first slice of the images, the voxels on the images are tested sequentially. If a seed point is found, 
initial region growing is implemented. Once the region growing is finished, it is followed by the search of the 
next seed point. The voxel next to the current seed point is chosen as the starting point of the search, and 
each of the following voxels are checked. Whenever the above two rules are satisfied, the new seed point is 
found. The above process is continued until all voxels on the images have been tested.  
 
附件-出席國際學術會議論文 
Computer-Aided Design & Applications, 8(a), 2011, bbb-ccc 
© 2011 CAD Solutions, LLC 
 
9 
CT images
All seed regions are given
Evaluate Gavg, j for each Fj
Find the fronts Fj for all seed 
regions
Arrange the sequence of Fj in 
terms of Gavg, j    
Take the voxels in Fj 
Expand each voxel along its six 
neighborhoods. Stop the expansion 
if G<Tm
Are all fronts expanded
If Tm<Tt
Tm=Ti-mT
Region growing finished
No, m=m+1
No, j=j+1
Yes
Yes
j=1
m=1
 
 
Fig. 7: Flowchart of simultaneous multiple regions growing. 
 
First, the fronts F
i
 for all seed regions are found. Each front represents the collection of the boundary voxels 
of a seed region. Second, since the gray value of a bone is larger than its surrounding tissues, a front with 
larger gray value should be expanded first. Therefore, compute the average gray value of all the voxels on 
each front, termed G
avg,i
, and then arrange the fronts in terms of G
avg,i
 from maximum to minimum. The 
expansion of the fronts is carried out in accordance with such a sequence. Third, starting from the first front 
of the new sequence, each of the voxels on this front is expanded around its six neighborhoods. Assume that 
the gray value of its neighborhood is G. If G T
m
, where T
m
=T
i
-mT, the expansion can be carried out along 
this voxel. Otherwise, the expansion is stopped at this voxel. Whenever all voxels on a front have been tested, 
we then test the voxels of the next front. When all fronts have been tested, the inner loop of the iteration is 
completed. Fourth, the index m is increased by 1 to reduce the intermediate target threshold T
m
 for T. If 
T
m
 T
t
, go back to the first step for the next cycle of expansion with an upgraded T
m
. If T
m
<T
t
, stop the 
process.  
 
Figure 8 depicts an example of a pelvis to illustrate the results of different region growing algorithms. In 
Figure 8(a), eight seed points are found automatically and each region is grown independently with a 
common target threshold of T
t
=600. It is evident that all regions are not grown completely because T
t
 is too 
large. In Figure 8(b), T
t
 is reduced to 185 and all seed regions are grown one by one. The results show that all 
regions are completely grown as T
t
 is reduced from 600 to 185. However, overflow is observed in many 
regions as no rule is specified to restrict the growing near the joint area. In Figure 8(c), the iterative region 
growing is implemented, with T
i
=600 and T
t
=185. The results show that all regions are grown completely and 
no overflow is observed. 
 
附件-出席國際學術會議論文 
Computer-Aided Design & Applications, 8(a), 2011, bbb-ccc 
© 2011 CAD Solutions, LLC 
 
11 
Region re-combination 
Region re-combination is a process of combining separated regions into a single region, and can generally be 
implemented manually. However, when multiple regions are generated simultaneously, an automatic 
procedure is necessary to check for the possibility of re-combination. The following four coefficients are 
defined to judge the possibly of region re-combination: 
 
(1) Region points Ni: number of voxels in region i. 
(2) Adjacent points Pij: number of voxels shared by two adjacent regions i and j. 
(3) Adjacent faces Fij: number of faces shared by two adjacent regions i and j. 
(4) Average gradient in gray value kij: average difference in gray value per adjacent face for 
adjacent regions i and j. It is evaluated as follows: for each boundary voxel in region i, find its 
neighboring voxels in region j. For each pair of such voxels, evaluate the difference in gray 
values. Add all differences together and divide them by the adjacent faces  Fij, which yields kij.  
 
 
 
Fig. 10: An example showing the definition of four coefficients Ni, Pij, Fij and kij. 
 
Figure 10 depicts an example showing the values of the above four coefficients. The four coefficients of the 
yellow region in Figure 10 are as follows: (1) N
i
=10, (2) P
ij
 is 3 for both the green and brown regions, (3) F
ij
 is 4 
for both the green and brown regions, and (4) for both the green and brown regions, the sum of the 
differences in gray values for the four pairs of the neighboring voxels is evaluated and k
ij
 is the sum divided 
by 4. Here N
i
 can be used to determine the size of a region; the ratio s
ij
=F
ij
/P
ij
 can be used to judge the 
flatness of the boundary across adjacent regions. When s
ij
 is large, the boundary is less smooth. In general, 
when two adjacent regions belong to the same structure, s
ij
 should be small. The parameter k
ij
 is used to 
judge the variation of the gray values between two adjacent regions. When two regions belong to the same 
bone, k
ij
 should be small. Five rules are developed to judge whether or not adjacent regions should be 
combined. If any of the following five rules are satisfied, the two regions can be combined into one region: 
 
(1) kij < 50 and Fij > 100 (judged by average difference in gray value per adjacent face) 
(2) kij < 80 and Fij > 500 (judged by average difference in gray value per adjacent face) 
(3) kij < 130 and sij < 1.5 (judged by average difference in gray value per adjacent face and the 
flatness of the boundary) 
(4) sij < 1.8 (judged by the flatness of the boundary) 
(5) Pij  ∕ Ni > 0.1 (judged by the ratio of the voxels on the boundary relative to total voxels in a 
region) 
附件-出席國際學術會議論文 
Computer-Aided Design & Applications, 8(a), 2011, bbb-ccc 
© 2011 CAD Solutions, LLC 
 
13 
Case 1 Case 2 Case 3 Case 4 Case 5  
 
Fig. 11: Iso-surface display of five lower limbs with a threshold T=180. 
 
 
 Case 1 Case 2 Case 3 Case 4 Case 5 
Machine LightSpeed VCT 
Sensation 
16 
From website OsiriX  
Sex Female Female Female Male Male 
Age 18 20 36 30 No Info. 
Pixel spacing (mm) 0.768 0.660 0.703 0.678 0.832 
Slicing thickness (mm) 1.250 1.250 1.250 1.000 1.400 
 
Tab. 1: The DICOM information of five lower limbs in Figure 11. 
 
  
 
Fig. 12:Critical initial threshold for separating the tibia, (a) T
i
=163, all regions are still combined together, 
(b) T
i
=164, the patella is separated. 
 
 
Case1 Case2 Case3 Case4 Case5  
L R L R L R L R L R Avg. 
Patella 164 152 115 116 215 213 100 102 147 182 151 
Tibia 250 285 425 342 266 313 203 169 382 273 291 
Fibula 312 293 425 274 305 260 176 142 382 273 284 
Femur 335 312 237 242 303 299 282 297 268 332 291 
Ilium 351 342 336 272 528 464 442 453 434 441 402 
 
Tab. 2:  Critical thresholds for five major bones for five lower limbs. 
 
Skeletal area T
i
 
Upper limb 300~400 
Lower limb 300~400 
Ilium 400~500 
Feet 400~600 
附件-出席國際學術會議論文 
Computer-Aided Design & Applications, 8(a), 2011, bbb-ccc 
© 2011 CAD Solutions, LLC 
 
15 
Table 4 lists the optimal target thresholds T
t
 for five major bones and five lower limbs in Figure 11 by 
means of the above procedure. The results indicate that T
t
 for the left bone and the right bone of the same 
patient are similar (the maximum difference is 10), indicating that the same CT displays similar gray values 
on the left and right bones of the same patient. On the contrary, for cases 1, 2 and 3, where the same CT 
morality is employed on different patients, the maximum difference is increased to 35, indicating that T
t
 may 
change slightly patient by patient. The maximum difference between case 1 and case 4 is increased to 60, 
owing to the variation of the CT morality. The maximum difference between case 1 and case 5 is increased as 
high as 74. This occurs because the contrast medium is applied in case 5.  
 
Bones segmentation 
with Ti
Multiple regions growing  
with T=140
Filling and then extending  each 
bone region 
Boundary detection on each 
bone region 
Evaluate a Tti on each slice of 
each region
Compute average Tt for each region 
by averaging Tti acquired above 
 
 
Fig. 14: Flowchart of evaluating the target threshold T
t
 for each bone region. 
 
Figure 15 depicts all bones segmented for the five lower limbs, where the T
t
 employed on each bone is listed 
in Table 4. It is noted that each color represents an isolated bone region, in which the joints of all bones are 
accurately separated. Each of the regions can be manipulated individually, such as in the output of a set of 
triangular meshes for biomedical applications. The optimal target thresholds T
t
 shown in Table 4 for various 
bones are generally smaller than the range of 180~220, which is commonly chosen for constant thresholding. 
The advantage of multiple-level T
t
 for different bone regions is illustrated in Figure 16. In general, if a 
constant threshold is employed, e.g. T
t
=200 for all bones, substantial defects are observed on most joints 
(left plots in Figure 16). However, after multiple -level T
t
 is employed, where each bone has its own T
t
, the 
incomplete growing problem on the joints can be improved significantly (right plots in Figure 16). 
 
Case 1 Case 2 Case 3 Case 4 Case 5  
 
附件-出席國際學術會議論文 
Computer-Aided Design & Applications, 8(a), 2011, bbb-ccc 
© 2011 CAD Solutions, LLC 
 
17 
always a layer of cartilage between two separated bones. Although all bones may not be extracted 
completely with the proposed region growing algorithm, the employment of region re-segmentation 
and region re-combination enables the correction of incomplete segmentation and over 
segmentation, respectively. The processing time required for the overall process is more efficient 
than that of most commercial software, in which the segmentation is performed slice by slice. 
However, for the segmentation of fractured bones, the fractured lines or fragments may not be 
recognized accurately because the transition of the gray values may not be significant on some 
regions of adjacent fragments. In Figure 17(a), a pelvis is broken into several pieces on the right 
ilium and the sacrum. Figure 17(b) depicts the segmented results, in which the regions that are not 
segmented accurately are expanded and displayed. The reason that they cannot be segmented 
correctly is because the fragments are partially connected or compressed. A manual operation is 
necessary to segment these regions.  
 
     
(a)                                                                                     
(b) 
 
Fig. 17: A fractured pelvis not segmented correctly, (a) before segmentation, (b) after segmentation  
 
Conclusion  
The purpose of this study is to present a method for multiple bone segmentation from CT images. It has the 
following features. First, a seed-region growing algorithm is developed for initial growing of the bone 
regions. The aim is to find an initial region for each bone of interest. A user’s interface is provided so that 
the initial regions are displayed right after the initial threshold is specified. Second, multiple region growing 
is proposed to grow all regions simultaneously. Each front of the region is grown to an intermediate target 
threshold in each iterative cycle, which can ensure that all fronts are moved to the surface boundary at the 
same speed. With this strategy, overflow owing to irregular speed in region growing can be eliminated. Third, 
when a constant threshold is employed for all bones, undoubtedly, some of the regions will not be grown 
correctly. A procedure is provided to evaluate a target threshold for each region, enabling each region to be 
grown accurately and completely. Finally, a post-processing process including region re -combination and 
re-segmentation is presented to cope with all kinds of situations on CT images. The proposed method is not 
only suitable for lower limbs, but can also be applied for other skeletal structures. However, the optimal 
target threshold must be re-evaluated for different skeletal structures 
 
REFERENCES 
1. Palon, N. R.: Minimum Cross-Entropy Thresholding, Pattern Recognit, 29(4), 1996, 575-580. 
DOI:10.1016/0031-3203(95)00111-5 
附件-出席國際學術會議心得 
 
 
CAD’11 國際研討會 
時間：2011/06/27 
地點：圓山飯店 
與會心得： 
  本次的 CAD’11 研討會在台灣圓山飯店舉行，在四天的會議中有上百位的
國內外學者參加此會議。在本次會議中主要是以電腦輔助設計相關技術為主的學
術報告，其中大會也針對醫學領域開闢 Bio-CAD 的學術報告，我們也
以”Simultaneous Segmentation of Bone Regions Using Multiple-Level 
Threshold”為主題參加本次會議，而本論文也被刊登於 Computer Aided 
Design and Application(EI)期刊當中。在本會議中，看到了許多網格、曲線、
曲面等最新技術的發展，另外也了解 CAD 技術運用於醫學領域的情形，更與各
國學者進行學術交流與討論，受益匪淺。 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：李佩淵 計畫編號：99-2221-E-442-001- 
計畫名稱：骨盆手術之術前評估系統發展 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 150% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
