 
變阻式記憶體的製作與研究 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2218-E-239-001 
執行期限：20061001-20070731 
主持人：賴宜生 
計畫參與人員：杜家勳 
 
Abstract 
Several gold-particle solutions with different particle concentrations were 
spin-coated on Si/SiO2 substrate. The filament-induced electrical bistability in the 
Si/SiO2/Au NPs/AIDCN/Al devices were observed in this study. With the control of 
gold-particle-solution concentrations, we achieved a better memory effect. The 
improvement of this memory effect is possibly due to the better isolation of each 
nanoparticle, where the charges are stored in a more stable manner. 
 
 
Introduction 
Since the downscaling of non-volatile memory (NVM) technology becomes more and 
more difficult due to its physical limitations and increasing processing complexity, the 
resistance switching memory devices with two terminals have attracted considerable 
attention. Among these devices, those that use organic or polymer materials as active 
layer have even more market potential due to their advantages in regard to flexibility, 
easy processing, low cost, the greater level of fabrication due to printing techniques as 
well as increased data storage density. Therefore, the development of these devices into 
applicable and reliable ones is an emerging challenge for device researchers. 
 
 The AIDCN was procured from Aldrich Chemical Co.. Aluminum was used as the 
top electrodes and was deposited by thermal evaporation at a pressure of 1×10-5 Torr 
through a shadow mask. In order to examine the bistable switching behavior of the 
devices, Agilent 4155 semiconductor parameter analyzer was employed to measure the 
current-voltage (I-V) curves. All electrical measurements were conducted at room 
temperature. 
 
 
Results and discussion 
The I-V characteristics of the devices that use 0.05, 0.01 and 0.005 mg/ml are shown 
in figure 2. A much denser concentration (0.5 mg/ml) was found to be so dense that 
gold particle piles were found on the surface after deposition, and large current leakage 
was found in this device. In figures 2(a) and 2(b), the devices with 0.05 and 0.01mg/ml 
exhibited a similar I-V characteristic to that of the devices using the annealing approach. 
As we swept the voltage bias in a negative manner (the silicon side was positively 
biased), the current abruptly dropped by four orders when it reached -4V. Following the 
convention that designates the higher resistance state as being an off state, this process is 
called a switch-off process here. As the voltage bias was swept back to zero, the device 
switched back to the lower resistance state (on state) at the same or lower voltage bias 
(switch-on process). When this bias was removed as soon as the device switched off, the 
device stayed at the off state at 0 V. 
 Figure 3 illustrates the I-V characteristic during the switch-on process for each device. 
For the device that used the 0.005 mg/ml solution, the switch-on threshold voltage was 
larger than both 0.05 mg/ml and 0.01 mg/ml, meaning that the on/off states would not 
be perturbed by a small read voltage; this device provided a larger window to 
distinguish between these two states. This electrical characteristic has the potential for 
future applications for such memory devices. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 The I-V curves of the Si/SiO2/Au NPs/AIDCN/Al devices with different 
concentrations during the switch-on process. 
 
Figure 4 shows the I-V characteristics for one of the sweeps for the device using a 
0.05 mg/ml gold solution. As the voltage moved below the threshold voltage and the 
device switched off, there was a region (between about -4 V and -5 V) at which the state 
was unstable. The state in this region jumped back and forth between an imaginary 
NDR curve and the off state curve. However, for the device using the 0.005 mg/ml 
solution, we did not observe such unstable region. This unstable region has been 
