1 
一、中文摘要 
BHN 液晶顯示器 (Bistable chiral tilted-homeotropic nematic LCD) 是台灣自行研發出來的
一個雙穩態液晶顯示模態，它具有高對比度與廣視角的潛力。雙穩態液晶顯示器 (Bistable 
LCD) 由於有具有記憶效應，能達到低耗電與環保等的優點，因此非常適合做成電子紙 
(Electronic Paper)。此研究計畫主要是要分析 BHN LCDs 中，液晶的動態行為在雙穩態上、
穩態間的切換機制與鬆弛過程中所扮演的角色。 
 
關鍵詞：線狀液晶，雙穩態液晶顯示器，BHN 液晶顯示器 
 
 
 
 
二、Abstract: 
This investigation elucidates the transient behavior associated with switching between two 
stable states of a bistable chiral-tilted homeotropic nematic liquid crystal device.  Experimental 
results reveal that the applied pulse voltages and durations not only determine the final states but 
are interestingly related to the relaxation time.  When a suitable pulse voltage is applied, the 
minimum relaxation time can be obtained by adjusting the pulse duration.  Analyzing the 
hydrodynamic behavior of the liquid crystal directors explicates the switching mechanism and 
relaxation processes.  The principles that underlie the design of the waveforms to have the 
minimum relaxation time are obtained. 
 
 
Keywords: Nematic Liquid Crystals, Bistable LCD, BHN LCD  
 
 3
態、低切換電壓的近垂直排列雙穩態液晶模態 bistable chiral tilied-homeotropic nematic
（BHN）liquid crystal cells21。其中一穩態的液晶指向矢的排列是近於垂直，另一穩態為扭
轉態。設計變化與其穩定性的探討即為本計畫的重點。 
圖 1.為 BHN 液晶盒的切換機制 22，TH 態（Tilted Homeotropic state）與 T 態（Twisted 
state）是在未加電壓情況下的兩種穩態分子排列。假設初始態為 TH 態時，當施加 5V 低
頻電壓（f1 黑色線路徑）使液晶分子垂直於基板排列形成 BH 態（Biased Homeotropic state），
再切換成 5V 高頻電壓（f2 黑色線路徑），而切換瞬間產生流動效應，使得液晶分子排列變
成為 BT 態（Biased Twisted state），釋放電壓後會形成 T 態之穩態。或假設初始態為 T 態
時，當施加 5V 低頻電壓（f1 灰色線路徑），會形成 BH 態，釋放電壓後會形成 TH 態之穩
態。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 1.  BHN 液晶盒的切換機制 
1. D. K. Yang, et al., SID Intl. Symp. Digest Tech. Papers, 959 (2003). 
2. D. W., Berreman and W. R. Heffner, J. Appl. Phys., 52, 3032 (1981). 
3. Tie-Zheng Qian, Zhi-Liang Xie, H. S. Kwok and Ping Sheng, Appl. Phys. Lett., 71, 596 
(1997) 
4. Charles D. Hoke and Phillip J. Bos, Appl. Phys. Lett., 88, 2320 (2000). 
5. I. Dozov, M. Nobili, and G. Durand, Appl. Phys. Lett., 70, 1179 (1997). 
6. I. Dozov and G. Durand, Liquid Crystal Today, 8, 2, (1998). 
7. Jian-Xin Guo, Zhi-Guo Meng, Man Wong and Hoi-Sing Kwok, Appl. Phys. Lett., 77, 3716 
(2000) 
8. Tiezheng Qian, Zhiliang Xie, H. S. Kwok and Ping Sheng, J. Appl. Phys., 90, 3121 (2001) 
9. Z. L. Xie, Z. G. Meng, M. Wong and H. S. Kwok, Appl. Phys. Lett., 81, 2553 (2002).  
10. Seo Hern Lee, Kyoung-Ho Park, Tae-Hoon Yoon and Jae Chang Kim, Appl. Phys. Lett., 82, 
4215 (2003). 
11. G. P. Bryan-Brown, C. V. Brown, J. C. Jones, E. L. Wood, I. C. Sage, P. Brett and J. Rudin, 
SID Intl. Symp. Digest Tech. Papers, 28, 37 (1997). 
 5
to be quite low12.  When the BHN LC device is in the T state, in which the twist of the liquid 
crystal directors is 2π, a simple low-frequency pulse pulls the LC molecules vertically and the 
cell is switched to the TH state, in which the directors are homogeneously tilted toward the 
rubbing direction.  Switching the devices from the TH to the T state requires a pulse with a low 
frequency that is followed immediately with another high frequency pulse.  The DFLC material 
characteristics determine these two frequencies.  When the frequency of the pulse changes 
suddenly, back flow is induced, and this process is essential to switching.  However, neither the 
entirely dynamic switching behavior nor the details of the impact of the voltage and duration of 
the switching pulse has been studied before. 
This study also minimizes or eliminates relaxation times by experimentally varying the 
pulse voltages and durations.  The results are also analyzed by simulating the transient 
hydrodynamic behavior of the LC directors.  Since the relaxation time is roughly determined by 
the time required by the LC molecules to travel from the positions at the end of the pulse to the 
position of the final target state, the voltage and duration of the pulse that minimize the 
relaxation time can be obtained by reducing the difference between the director configurations of 
these two states. 
 
2. Experimental Schemes and Results 
The transmittance of a BHN LC cell was measured by placing a lab-made cell11 between 
two crossed polarizers; it was rubbed parallel to one of the polarizer axes.  The cell is filled 
with MLC-2048 (pitch = −10 µm, Merck Co.) and the pretilt angle is about 74°.  When the cell 
is in the T state, a low-frequency 1 kHz pulse, which corresponds to a positive dielectric 
anisotropy of MLC-2048, pulls the LC molecules vertically toward the biased homeotropic state 
(BH state).  This director configuration causes the BH state to be darker than the TH state.  
When the pulse ends, the LC molecules relax to either the TH state or back to T state.  Since a 
free energy barrier13 exists between the two stable states, successful switching from the T state to 
the TH state depends on an electric field that acts on the molecules that is sufficiently strong or 
long to push the directors through it.  Figure 2 (a) plots the minimum pulse durations that 
successfully switch the whole cell at various applied voltages.  The top-right region of the 
diagram represents the successful switching.  As the applied pulse voltage increases, the 
required pulse duration declines, which finding was expected.  After the pulse has ended, the 
LC molecules experience only the elastic restoring torque and relax slowly to the TH state.  The 
relaxation time is measured from the end of the pulse to the time at which the intensity is 10% of 
the intensity of the T state.  Figure 2(b) plots the experimental data, which indicate that at each 
pulse voltage, when the pulse duration exceeds a critical value, the relaxation time is zero. 
Switching from the TH state to the T state requires two pulses with different frequencies to 
be combined into a single pulse (a two-frequency combined pulse).  These two frequencies are 
1 and 100 kHz, chosen because they correspond to the positive and negative dielectric 
anisotropy, respectively of MLC-2048.  The first pulse is 1 kHz and pulls the director toward 
 7
restoring force elasf
r
.  If equilibrium is reached at the end of the pulse, then the total force that 
acts on the director is 
( )
zii
iiii n
F
zn
FnEEnfG
,
defdef
1110elas )ˆ( ∂
∂
∂
∂+∂
∂−+⋅Δ=+ λεε r                          (1) 
where ])ˆˆ()ˆˆ()ˆ([5.0 233
2
022
2
11def nnkqnnknkF ×∇×++×∇⋅+⋅∇×= ; nˆ  is the LC director; and 
λ is a Lagrange multiplier that ensures 1ˆ =n .  k11, k22 and k33 are the splay, twist and bend 
elastic constants, respectively.  q0 is pπ2 , where p is the pitch of the helix. 
Figure 5(a) plots the simulated transmittances of BHN LC device as it is switched 
successfully from the T state to the TH state by applying a 5 V pulse with durations of 35.75 
and 40 ms.  Figure 5(b) plots the corresponding director configurations at the end of these 
pulses as well as that of the T, BH and TH states.  Each mark on this polar diagram represents 
the tip of the LC director, projected on the x-y plane (substrate) with its tail fixed at the origin.  
Each curve plots the trajectory of the directors from the bottom to the top layers.  During the 
pulse, the curve of the director configuration shrinks and the transmittance declines as the 
directors move to the BH state.  If the pulse ends too early, the transmittance of the device 
decreases slowly during relaxation, since the only driving force is the director restoring 
force elasf
r
.  Therefore, the relaxation time is long if the transmittance exceeds 10 % of that of 
the T state at the end of the pulse.  A zero relaxation time can be achieved for the pulses whose 
corresponding transmittance at the end of the pulse is below 10 % of that of the T state. 
Since the external director body force dominates the motion of the directors during the pulse, 
a larger applied voltage causes the directors to rotate more quickly to the vertical direction, such 
that a shorter pulse is required.  Restated, the directors require sufficient impulse, which is 
force multiplied by pulse duration, to have enough energy to overcome the energy barrier 
between the T and TH states13.  Figure 6 plots the minimum pulse voltage and corresponding 
pulse duration that are required to switch the cell from the T state to the TH state.  The inset in 
Fig. 6 shows the relaxation times for pulse voltages of 5, 7 and 10 V.  The simulation results 
match the experimental results. 
To switch the cell from the TH state to the T state, two pulses (a positive Δε1 during the first 
pulse and a negative Δε2 during the second pulse) are required to produce a combined pulse.  
The voltage of the combined pulse in the simulation is 5 V and the duration of the first pulse is 
set to 100 ms, which is sufficiently long and the directors are in the BH state at the end of the 
pulse.  This equilibrium established by the field, E1, of the first pulse is broken when the field, 
E2, of the second pulse is applied.  At that very moment, the forces that act on the directors are 
the external director body force 2220 )ˆ(' EEnG
rrr ⋅Δ= εε  and the elastic restoring force elasf
r
.  Since 
the motion of the directors is slower than the switching of the pulse, the elastic restoring force is 
 9
experimental results in Fig. 4.  The second typical relaxation situation is revealed when the 
second pulses with durations of 100 ms and more.  Before the end of the pulse, the directors 
have already been pushed into the BT state, as represented by the green curve in Fig. 9(a).  
Since the major differences between the BT state and the T state are the director configuration 
close to the boundaries, the relaxation time is that required by the directors close to the 
boundaries to relax.  As the pulse duration further increases, the relaxation times tend to 
saturate, as represented by the purple part of the 5 V curve and right parts of the 7 and 10 V 
curves in Fig. 9(b).  In the third relaxation situation, the second pulse duration is in between 
the durations in the two aforementioned situations.  An example involves a second pulse with 
duration of 50 ms with the corresponding transmittance that is displayed in Fig. 7(b).  The 
yellow curve in Fig. 9(a) plots the director configuration at the end of the 50 ms pulse.  The 
relaxation time reaches a minimum when the director configuration and the corresponding 
transmittance are very close to those of the final T state.  The blue part of the 5 V curve in Fig. 
9(b) reveals a relaxation time of approximately zero.  The minimal relaxation times for pulse 
voltages of 7 and 10 V for various second pulse durations are determined experimentally and by 
simulation. 
Based on these dynamic studies, although the exact time scales do not match those in the 
experiments because the six Leslie coefficients from MBBA are applied in the simulation, the 
principles of the optimization of the second pulse duration to minimize the relaxation time of 
the BHN LC cell are elucidated.  The minimal or zero relaxation times are obtained when the 
second pulse pushes the directors to a configuration in which the transmittance is about 90 % of 
that in the T state.  Longer pulses drive the directors into the BH state, and the relaxation time 
tends to saturate. However, shorter pulses do not push the directors down enough and the 
relaxation time increases as the pulse duration declines. 
 
4. Conclusions 
The motion of the directors in the switching processes is analyzed to explicate the dynamic 
behavior of a BHN LC device, which agrees closely with the experimental results.  A higher 
pulse voltage is associated with a shorter required pulse for successful switching from the T 
state to the TH state.  Furthermore, a critical duration that yields a zero relaxation time exists 
for each pulse voltage.  In switching from the TH state to the T state, the first pulse pulls the 
directors toward the BH state, while the second pulse not only causes the back-flow effect but 
also pushes the directors to the BT state.  For the first pulse duration of 100 ms with the 
combined pulse voltages of 5, 7 and 10 V, the relaxation situation are divided into three 
categories according to the second pulse durations and corresponding director configurations at 
the end of the pulse.  In the first category, the relaxation time increases as the pulse duration 
declines.  In the second category, the relaxation time saturates when the pulse duration 
increases to a critical value.  In the third category, the director configuration at the end of the 
pulse can be close to that in the final T state, and the relaxation time is minimized.  These 
 11
Figure Captions: 
FIG. 1.  Director configurations of BH, BT, TH and T states and associated mechanisms of 
switching of BHN LC device. 
FIG. 2.  (a) Measured minimal pulse durations and voltages required to switch the BHN LC cell 
from the T state to the TH state.  (b) Relaxation time results obtained using various 
pulse durations for pulse voltages of 5, 7 and 10 V. 
FIG. 3.  To switch the cell from the TH state to the T state, (a) minimum pulse voltage with first 
and second pulse durations of 100 ms and 400 ms, respectively, and (b) minimum pulse 
duration for combined pulse voltages of 5, 7 and 10 V. 
FIG. 4.  Measured relaxation times for various second pulse durations with combined pulse 
voltages of 5, 7 and 10 V and a 100 ms first pulse duration of. 
FIG. 5.  (a) Simulated switching transmittance of the BHN LCD from T state to TH state for 
pulse durations of 35.75 and 40 ms. (b) Director configurations at t = 0 ms (T state), the 
end of the pulse at 35.75 and 40 ms, BT and the final T state. 
FIG. 6.  Simulated minimum pulse durations and voltages for switching BHN LC cell from T 
state to TH state.  The inset plots the relaxation times associated with different pulse 
durations. 
FIG 7.  Switching transmittance of BHN LCD from TH state to T state associated with pulses of 
three second pulses of durations (a) 43 (b) 50 and (c) 100 ms. 
FIG. 8.  To switch the cell from the TH state to the T state, the simulated (a) minimum pulse 
voltages for first and second pulses with durations of 100 ms and 400 ms, respectively, 
and (b) minimum pulse durations with combined pulse voltages of 5, 7, and 10 V. 
FIG. 9.  (a) Director configurations at t = 0 ms (BH state), 43, 50 and 100 ms and in the final T 
state (purple line).  (b) Simulated relaxation times for various durations of the second 
pulse with pulse voltages of 5, 7 and 10 V and a first pulse duration of 100 ms. 
 13
 
2
4
6
8
10
12
2 4 6 8 10 12
First pulse voltage (V)
S
ec
on
d 
pu
ls
e 
vo
lta
ge
 (V
)
 
Figure 2 (a)  
 
 
 
20
40
60
80
100
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
First pulse duration (ms)
Se
co
nd
 p
ul
se
 d
ur
at
io
n 
(m
s) 5 V
7 V
10 V
 
 
Figure 2 (b) 
 
First pulse duration = 100 ms
 15
 
Figure 6 (a) 
 
 
Figure 6 (b) 
 
Figure 6 (c) 
 17
 
30
210
60
240
90
270
120
300
150
330
180 0
43 ms 
100 ms 
50 ms 
0 ms 
  0.8
  0.6
  0.4
  0.2
 
Figure 8 (a) 
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
0 20 40 60 80 100
Second pulse duration (ms)
R
el
ax
at
io
n 
tim
e 
(m
s) 5V
7V
10V
 
Figure 8(b) 
