利用動態群組配置提升通訊品質（QoS）等。利用超級結點（super peer）的協助，結點（peer）
的負擔可大大降低。此外，利用一過濾機制（filtering mechanism），訊息成本（message load）
可大大減少。再者，利用動態調整群組大小，系統中多人會議可保有好的服務品質。利用
數值分析和模擬實驗檢驗其成效，本計劃所提的方法，能有效的支援異質網路中P2P底下移
動式節點的高品質的即時通訊服務。 
關鍵詞：點對點、結點發掘、移動性、多人會議、服務品質 
 
1 簡介 
 
未來網路環境將是一個各式有線無線異質（Heterogeneous）網路並存的景象，隨著移動
（mobile）技術的普遍發展和即時通訊服務（IM: Instant Messaging）的廣泛使用，支援移
動用戶使用即時通訊系統已成目前極為熱門的議題。近幾年來行動裝置蓬勃發展，依據
Morgan Stanley 調查機構 [1]，行動上網已經是一種銳不可擋的趨勢了。當用戶四處移動
時，如何能繼續不間斷的和其他用戶進行通訊，透過手持式裝置(Handheld Device)，也能使
用 Instant Message的功能和服務[2]，引起熱烈討論與研究。目前當紅的 IM軟體，包括MSN 
Messager [3]和 Yahoo!即時通[4]等，都是架構在主從式架構（client/server）的網路環境，但
主從式架構卻有著依賴 server 的嚴重缺點，包括 server 上的效能瓶頸限制、需要額外的管
理、以及較弱的系統強健性（robustness）等。所以本論文提出將即時通訊系統在 P2P架構
上，並以此來支援移動性節點，進行一對一通訊或多人會議。 
 P2P是一個無 server的架構（Serverless）。而 Client/Server架構的網路是以 Server為中
心，Client需要服務時向 Server發出請求，由 Server做回應；在 P2P的系統架構下，以使
用者為中心，控制權回歸到 Client手中，所有的使用者都是相等的地位，透過 P2P來共享
資源。若將即時通訊系統建構 P2P上，因為沒有 server的介入所以有下列幾項優點[9, 10]：
不需中央管理、較高的可信度、自主性、以及較高的通訊安全等。 
 已提出的 P2P 技術大多只有考慮到固定端點（Fixed Node）的問題，並沒有特別針對
無線網路下的移動端點（Mobile Node）加以考量。移動式點對點協定（MPP: Mobile 
Peer-to-Peer Protocol）即是為了這個情況所產生的技術[15]。已有研究[11, 15]是利用 MPP
的技術來實做網路上的應用，1970年初美國國防部高等研究計劃局（DARPA）開始將MPP
應用在網路性質非常相似的 Ad-hoc網路上，以便當戰爭爆發時需要這樣子的網路結構來提
供服務。然而，目前已提出的方法中，未特別考量手持式設備的特性及無線網路的限制，
因此無法有效支援行動用戶使用 IM的服務。 
 於是本計劃提出利用 P2P技術來改善主從式網路架構下的瓶頸限制，並針對即時通訊
系統提出一些方法來支援移動式使用者，以期能達到以下目標，包括：支援結點的移動性、
上實現，所以在 2002年以後，綜合以上兩代的優缺點，發展出第三代的 P2P架構，在此以
JXTA[8]為其代表。 
由於越來越多的 P2P 軟體的崛起，於是 Sun 公司就以 P2P 網路架構為平臺設計的
JXTA[8]（Juxtapose）這個新的技術，讓許多想以 P2P為網路架構來開發系統的工作者，都
能夠在不限語言（language independent）、不限平臺（llatform independent）下完成一個 P2P
的系統設計。JXTA 以 P2P 為網路結構，其下包含有六個 protocols 來撐構整個系統的基本
服務。 
於核心技術來說，[9, 10]提起許多 JXTA 的應用程式因平台技術支援而實現，JXTA 
Protocol 在 Internet 和非 IP 網路上建立出一個虛擬的網路層，讓所有裝置可以直接溝通互
動，並組織架構，無需考量防火牆以及 NAT。在現有的 TCP/IP的架構之上覆蓋（overlap）
一層 JXTA的虛擬網路層（JXTA virtual network），如此一來就算所要搜尋或是溝通的 peer
位在防火牆（firewall）或是 NAT後，都可以輕易的以管線（pipe）來建立起溝通管道。 
 在第三代 P2P的系統架構中，有 peer和 super-peer這兩個角色活絡於系統中。Peer是
在網路中以較輕量級的設備索取網路服務的終端裝置，因此也稱為 edge-peers，而 super-peer
是以一個較高階層的服務者姿態的結點，在裝置上也具有較高的能力，通常為替其他 peers
或是 super-peers提供轉送的服務的節點。而 super-peer對 peer的定義，簡單來說就像是節
點利用閘道（gateway）存取網路。第三代中還有一些新的協定，像是防火牆、虛擬網路的
穿越和群組的功能，其中防火牆和 NAT 的穿越是利用 HTTP 或 TCP 的協定來達成的，以
及群組（group）的概念。第三代的 P2P解決了許多前兩代 P2P的問題，和第二代 P2P互相
比較，因為多了階層的關係，也就是 super-peer 和 peer 之間的階層關係，因此比之完全分
散的架構來說，會有較好的效率，且第三代的 P2P 中有最佳化的方法來減少系統的荷載
（overhead）。 
總結來說，將第三代的 P2P應用在移動場景上來說，具有以下這些優點[9, 10]： 
z 使得 P2P就像是分散式系統一樣，具有較高的可信度（reliable），若為單一伺服器，則
檔案就只存在唯一路徑，容易發生網路壅塞或是無法使用。 
z 使得 P2P擁有較高的系統效能，以叢集（clustering）的方法改善了在 Peer之間做繞路
（routing）動作所引起的瓶頸。 
z 因為管理和結構的關係可以在自主架構的系統上有效率的運作，以此來避免中央管理
的運作方式。 
z 可以更有效率的分享資源，當某一個 Peer由其他 Peer得到檔案之後，也可以經要求，
給更多的 Peer來使用。 
z 因 P2P的方法，經由點對點的傳輸可以使兩個端點進行點對點的傳輸，不需經過其他
的轉送節點，以此避免掉有心的第三者竊聽。 
Step 1： 當移動裝置 peer A登入系統時，發出請求給鄰近的 Relay Peer，並等待回應；
或是直接請求預設的 Relay Peer發給 Advertisement。 
Step 2： 確定之後 Relay Peer之後，發出 Advertisement給周圍的 peers知道。 
Step 3： 當 A和 B進行通訊時，A開始做移動，並接收到由 IP層傳來的新訊號後，知
道已做移動並準備更換 IP位址，發出訊息給 Relay peer，請 Relay peer幫忙暫
存由 B所傳來的封包 
Step 4： A將 Relay peer的 Input Pipe傳送給 B，並告知 B將訊息轉送給 Relay Peer。 
Step 5： A移動新位置之後，立刻發送 Advertisement發給 Relay Peer，由 Relay peer做
解析後將 Advertisement傳給 B。 
Step 6： Relay Peer由已解析的 Advertisement知道 A的真實位址，開始將暫存的封包
轉送給 A。 
Step 7： B停止將封包傳送給 Relay peer，直接傳送給 A，回復原本點對點的傳輸模式。
 
3.3 Reduced Message Load 
 
本計劃提出其他 peer來分擔的概念，意即由 Rendezvous peers先去檢查 cache裡是否有欲
搜尋的檔案或 peer 的 Advertisement，因為 JXTA 的機制會將保鮮期（Lifetime）已過的
Advertisement刪除掉，所以在 cache中能找到的 Advertisement都是在有效期限內的，但是
因為在 P2P中 peer經常隨意的登入、登出，或是在網路中任意移動，且只會對自己 Group
中的 Rendezvous peer做更新，所以有可能在 Advertisement還是有效的時間內 peer就已經
登出系統了，所以某些檔案也跟著消失了，在這種情況下回傳 Advertisement就是一種浪費
頻寬的行為。 
於是本計劃提出由 cache到欲搜尋目標的Advertisement的Rendezvous peer做先行確認
動作的想法。並在回傳的時候，每一個上游節點都只接收第一個回應的封包，拒絕其他回
傳的封包，再執行回傳的動作，如此一來路徑上的每個節點都擁有最新的也最正確的狀態。
所以當其他 peer再發出相同的詢問請求時，可以由路徑上的其他節點，很快的給予回應。
如此一來，由 peer的 Rendezvous peer來接收第一個回應訊息之後傳達給發出請求的 peer，
也就不會造成 peer的流量阻塞了。Figure 3說明傳統方法與本計劃提出方法的不同。Figure 
4中由 peer A發出 query，其他 peers收到 query後，查詢本身是否具有檔案資訊，若有則
先行詢問擁有檔案資訊的 peer是否還在系統中。 
 
FOR i=NG to 1 
IF exist a SP in Gi  
NG = NG+1; 
make the SP be the new RP of GNG ; 
chair adds a new column to MTable with SP; 
GROUP_ADD(GNG，Peer X) ; 
break; 
GROUP_ADD (Group Gi，Peer X) 
chair sends RP_i’s advertisement to Peer X; 
RP_i records Peer X to MTable; 
RP_i update MTable to other RPs; 
DELETE_MEMBER 
FOR i=1 to NG  
 FOR j=i to NG  
  IF Gi ≦ TM AND Gj ≦ TM 
   MERGE_GROUP(Gi，Gj ) ; 
 ELSE 
  KEEP_SESSION; 
MERGE_GROUP (Group Gi，Group Gj ) 
/*  Let the GX as the group which is created earlier; GY as the other one group   */  
IF Gi is created earlier than Gj 
GX = Gi; GY = Gj; 
ELSE 
GX = Gj; GY = Gi; 
RP_Y sends RP_X’s advertisement to peers in GY; 
all peers of GY change their RP as RP_X; 
RP_X records peers in MTable; 
RP_X updates MTable to other RPs; 
 
4 Simulations and Results 
 
4.1 Peer Discovery 
 
z The Influence of the Popularity of the Queried Advertisement: As illustrated in Figure 5 
and Figure 6, the message load of response message over various numbers of peers caching 
the queried advertisement of the proposed method is less than that of the original method.  
z The Influence of TTL: As shown in Figure 7, the message load of both methods increases 
when the TTL increases. Also, the message load of the proposed method is less than that of 
the original method. Another observation in Figure 7, when the TTL gets large, the influence 
becomes obvious. This result implies that the message efficiency of the proposed method is 
better than that of the original method. 
z The Influence of the Mobility: As shown in Figure 8, in both methods, the success rate is 
high when the stay time is large. Also, the success rate of a peer over various mobility of the 
proposed method is as good as that of the original method. It suggests that the message load 
of the proposed method is considerably reduced without compromising the success rate of 
discovery operations. 
 
降低。此外，利用一過濾機制（filtering mechanism），訊息成本（message load）可大大減
少。再利用動態調整群組大小，系統中多人會議可保有好的服務品質。利用數值分析和模
擬實驗檢驗其成效，本計劃所提的方法，可有效的支援異質網路中P2P底下移動式節點的高
品質的即時通訊服務。 
 
6 參考文獻 
 
[1] http://playstation2.idv.tw/iacolumns/jl000007.html 
[2] R. Schollmeier, I. Gruber, and F. Niethammer, “Protocol for Peer-to-Peer Networking in 
Mobile Environments,” Proceeding of 12th IEEE International Conference on Computer 
Communications and Networks Dallas, USA, pp.121-127, October 2003. 
[3] http://messenger.msn.com.tw/ 
[4] http://tw.messenger.yahoo.com/ 
[5] http://www.napster.com/ 
[6] http://www.gnutella.com/ 
[7] http://freenet.sourceforge.net/ 
[8] http://www.sun.com/software/jxta/ 
[9] H. Erkki, Y. Mika, A. Jussi, R. Jukka, and S. Jaakko, “Plug-and-play application platform 
towards mobile peer-to-peer,” Proceedings of 3rd international conference on Mobile and 
ubiquitous multimedia, pp.63-69, October 2004. 
[10] N. Maibaum, T. Mundt, “JXTA: a technology facilitating mobile peer-to-peer networks,” 
Proceedings of International Mobility and Wireless Access Workshop, pp.7-13, USA, Oct. 
2002. 
[11] Z. Lidong, R. Robbert van, M. Michael “Implementing IPv6 as a peer-to-peer overlay 
network,” Proceedings of the 21st IEEE Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems, pp.347, 
2002. 
[12] S. Rüdiger, G. Ingo, F. Michael “Routing in Mobile Ad Hoc and Peer-to-Peer Networks. A 
Comparison,” Proceeding of Networking 2002 Workshops on Web Engineering and 
Peer-to-Peer Computing, pp.172-186, 2002. 
[13] D. S. Milojicic, V. Kalogeraki, R. Lukose, K. Nagaraja, J. Pruyne, B. Richard, S. Rollins, 
and Z. Xu, “Peer-to-Peer Computing,” HP Laboratories Palo Alto, Technical Report 
HPL-2002-57, March 8, 2002. 
[14] J. Rosenberg, H. Schulzrinne, G. Camarillo, A. Johnston, J. Peterson, R. Sparks, M. Handley, 
and E. Schooler, “SIP: Session Initiation Protocol,” IETF RFC 3261, June 2002. 
[15] R. Schollmeier, I. Gruber, and F. Niethammer, “Protocol for Peer-to-Peer Networking in 
Mobile Environments,” Proceeding of 12th IEEE International Conference on Computer 
Communications and Networks Dallas, USA, pp.121-127, October 2003. 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
 
本人與參與此計劃的碩士班研究生王治翔搭乘兩岸直航包機，由桃園機場直飛
至上海浦東機場，再搭乘陸上交通前往杭州香格里拉飯店的會議地點。發表論
文的時間與地點如下： 
 
Third International Conference on Communications and Networking in China 
(CHINACOM 2008) & 3rd International Workshop on Wireless Community 
Networks (COMNETS2008)  
Workshop Chair: Károly Farkas 
University of West Hungary 
Sessions: COMNETS-01: New Models and Services of Community Networks 
Date and Time: 28 Aug., (9:15-10:30) 
Location: Longjing, East Building 
COMNETS01.3 P2P-Based Instant Messaging for Wireless Community Networks 
Y.-W. Lin (National Taichung University), L.-S. Kuo (National Chiayi University), 
J.-S. Wang, W.-T. Shiu (National Taichung University) 
 
二、 與會心得 
 
此次參加與計劃主題相關的會議（International Workshop on Wireless Community 
Networks），因將 Peer-to-Peer P2P 技術運用於Wireless Community Networks中
P2P-Based Instant Messaging for Wireless 
Community Networks 
Yen-Wen Lin 
Department of Computer and 
Information Science 
National Taichung University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
Li-Su Kuo 
Department of Computer 
Science and Information 
Engineering 
National Chiayi University  
Chiayi, Taiwan 
Jhih-Siang Wang  
Department of Computer and 
Information Science 
National Taichung University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
Wei-Ting Shiu 
Department of Computer and 
Information ScienceNational 
Taichung University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
 
Abstract—With remarkable advances in wireless communications 
and mobile devices, wireless community networks (WCNs) 
become more and more attractive. Plenty of applications have 
been developed. Among others, instant messaging (IM) can be 
used for real time communications in a community network. In a 
wireless community network, nodes may spontaneously join or 
leave from time to time. In this paper, to meet the self-
organization requirement of the wireless community network, 
peer-to-peer (P2P) paradigm is adopted to support IM 
applications. Traditionally, IM systems have been developed 
based on the client-server model for networking. To remedy the 
inherent deficiencies of the client-server model, this research 
probes the prospects of using P2P networking paradigm in the 
mobile IM applications for wireless community networks. 
Especially, due to the limitations of the mobile devices and 
wireless communications, related issues have to been 
reconsidered. In our design, the load on the mobile peers can be 
greatly reduced with the help of the powerful super peers. 
Besides, a message filtering mechanism is developed to lessen the 
message load of peer discovery in the P2P system. As will be 
shown in the simulation results, the methods proposed in this 
paper can remarkably reduce the message load of peer discovery 
to effectively support P2P based instant messaging in the wireless 
community networks.  
Keywords- Wireless Community Network, P2P, IM, Mobile 
Peer, Message Load, Peer Discovery 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Great progress in wireless communications and mobile 
devices have made the wireless community networks (WCNs) 
[1, 2, 3] a reality. Plenty of applications including e-learning, e-
health etc., have been developed for the participants of the 
WCNs. Among others, instant messaging (IM) gets more and 
more popular today. It’s a mean of real time communication 
between two or more people, by use of sending the messages 
across Internet. Conventionally, IM systems have been built 
based on the client-server model for networking. However, 
some inherent defects of the client-server model [4, 5] make it 
cannot satisfactorily meet the requirements of the IM services. 
Under the client-server model, the clients have to communicate 
with other clients via the server. The server takes charge of 
handling the clients’ requests and sending the messages 
accordingly. The reliance on the server confines the scalability 
of the IM system with exploded population. In addition to the 
scalability problem, the server also becomes the reliability and 
security bottleneck of the system. In case the server fails, the 
entire IM system fails.  
To remedy these deficiencies, this research probes the 
prospects of using the P2P networking paradigm [4, 6] in the 
IM applications for the participants of the WCNs. Specifically, 
in a WCN, nodes may spontaneously join or leave from time to 
time. In this paper, to meet the self-organization requirement of 
the WCNs, peer-to-peer (P2P) paradigm seems fitting to 
support IM applications. However, a few issues [7] need to be 
carefully investigated to efficiently support the IM applications 
for mobile users due to the special characteristics of the mobile 
devices (the mobility; limited storage, computation, and 
communication capabilities; limited battery power of the 
devices) and the wireless communications (narrow and varying 
bandwidth; high bit error rate) in a WCN. 
Though plenty of efforts [7] have been proposed for 
developing the mobile P2P systems, a handful of problems are 
partially solved. The goals of this research are to investigate the 
issues of building P2P based IM system, especially for the 
mobile users in the WCNs. In our design, with the help of a 
few powerful super peers, the load on the mobile peers can be 
considerably reduced. In addition, a message filtering 
mechanism is developed to lessen the message load resulting 
from peer discovery of the P2P system. As will be shown in the 
simulation results, the message load of the proposed method is 
remarkably reduced without compromising the success rate of 
related discovery operations.  
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, 
the proposed system is overviewed. In Section 3, the simulation 
results are presented. Section 4 briefly concludes this paper. 
II. SYSTEM OVERVIEW 
P2P applications for mobile users grow into more and more 
attractive. However, a handful of challenges resulting from the 
particular characteristics of the mobile devices and wireless 
communications need to be figured out to achieve mobile P2P 
in a WCN.  
A. Problem Definition 
In an IM application, the calling peer has to discover the 
presence of the callee peer before they can communicate with 
each other. In the conventional P2P systems, when a peer 
wants to find out a certain network resource/peer, it broadcasts 
the presence of the callee peer. In this paper, the presence state 
of a peer includes the online/offline state, the state of the 
advertisements cached in the local cache, and the networking 
location of the peer. As suggested in [7], the 3G P2P 
architecture is better suitable for mobile use. The scheme 
proposed in this paper is designed based on a few assumptions 
of JXTA [7, 8, 9]; which is one of the most representative 
system of the 3G P2P architecture.  
Among others, to reduce the load on the mobile peers, the 
super peer model described in [10] is revised and adopted in 
this paper. Before going further, a few terminologies extended 
from [11] are described first. Two types of peers revised from 
the design of JXTA system [7], namely super-peer and peer; 
are involved in the system model. 
A peer is any uniquely identifiable networked device which 
is capable of interacting with other network devices using 
standardized protocols. Peer group is a collection of peers that 
have a common set of interests and have agreed upon a 
common set of services. An advertisement is a metadata 
structure describing peer resources such as peers, peer groups, 
and services. A rendezvous super peer is a peer which assumes 
additional responsibilities for the propagation of messages 
within a peer group. It also maintains the index of the 
advertisements either of all peers in its responsible peer group 
or the response obtained and cached at its local cache for 
previous peer discovery. The Relay super peer maintains 
routing information for the group peers and bridges for the 
peers that cannot easily connect directly with other peers. In 
this paper, it buffers and forwards the messages for either the 
mobile peer or the peers located behind the NAT or the firewall. 
For the mobility and limited processing/networking capabilities 
of the mobile peers in a WCN, the Relay super peer also acts 
on behalf of the mobiles. In addition, the definitions of the 
terminologies coined in this paper are collected in TABLE I. 
The messages used in the following descriptions are presented 
in TABLE II. The proposed discovery procedure is described 
in Figure 3. 
TABLE I.  TERMINOLOGY DEFINITION 
Callee Peer The peer who is searched for IM connection.  
Calling Peer 
The peer who requests to connect with the Callee Peer 
and issues the discovery for Callee peer’s 
advertisement.  
Distance(X, Y) The distance between Peer X and Peer Y. 
Downstream Peer 
The peer I is the downstream peer of peer j if 
Distance(Calling peer X, i) > Distance(Calling peer X, 
j). 
Ren(X) 
The responsible rendezvous super peer of the Peer X. 
That is, Peer X is a member the peer group managed 
by this responsible rendezvous super peer Ren(X). 
Ri(X) 
The rendezvous super peer Ri with Distance(Calling 
peer X, Ri) == i. Specially, the responsible rendezvous 
super peer of the Peer A is R0 
r The radius of searching area reached from the Calling Peer 
TTL Time-to-Live is the maximum hop count allowed for searching the queried advertisement. 
Upstream Peer 
The peer I is the upstream peer of peer j if 
Distance(Calling peer X, i) < Distance(Calling peer X, 
j). 
TABLE II.  MESSAGE DEFINITION 
Accept Callee Peer sends an Accept message to accept the IM connection request. 
Check A Check message is sent for checking the correctness of the queried advertisement. 
Discovery Fail A Discovery Fail message is sent to report the failure of finding out Callee’s advertisement. 
Discovery Query A Discovery Query message is sent to find out the Callee’s advertisement. 
Discovery 
Response 
A Discovery Response message is sent to report the 
Callee’s advertisement. 
Discovery Stale A Discovery Stale message is sent to report the Callee’s advertisement is stale. 
IM Request An IM Request message is sent from upper layer application to request a new IM connection. 
Invite Calling Peer sends an Invite message to invite Callee Peer for IM connection. 
Reject Callee Peer sends a Reject message to reject the IM connection request. 
 
Peer Discovery() { 
 The Calling Peer checks its local cache; 
 If (The advertisement of the Callee Peer can be found) Then 
The Calling Peer connects directly with the Callee Peer; 
Else { 
The Calling Peer sends a Discovery Query message to its responsible 
rendezvous super peer R0; 
rendezvous super peer R0 checks its local cache; 
If (The Callee Peer’s advertisement can be found in R0’s local cache) Then 
{ 
R0 sends a Discovery Response message to the Calling Peer; 
The Calling Peer connects directly with the Callee Peer;} 
Else { 
R0 sends a Discovery Query message to its downstream rendezvous 
super peer R1; 
r :=1;  
Found := false; 
While ((r <= TTL) and (Found == false)) do { 
Check the cache of all rendezvous super peer Rr  
where distance(Peer A, Rr) == r;    
If (Rr holds the Callee Peer’s advertisement) Then 
Rr sends a Check message to the responsible rendezvous super 
peer of the Callee Peer Ren(Callee Peer);  
If (The advertisement is still correct) Then { 
Rr sends a Discovery Response message to its upstream 
rendezvous super peer Rr-1; 
Found := true;  Exit;}  
 Else 
 r := r + 1; 
Else 
 r := r + 1; 
}}}// end of Else, Else, and While loop 
}// end 
Figure 3. Peer discovery procedure 
 
Here, it is assumed that Peer A wants to connect Peer B. As 
illustrated in Figure 4, Peer A issues the discovery of Peer B. 
Peer A checks its local cache first. If the advertisement of Peer 
B is found, Peer A can connect Peer B directly. Otherwise, Peer 
A sends discovery request to its responsible rendezvous super 
peer Ren(A). The request message will be continuously 
broadcasted to the neighboring rendezvous super peers until 
either the advertisement of Peer B is found or the hop count of 
the message reach the predefined TTL. For the networking 
location of a mobile peer may change from time to time, the 
advertisement cached at some rendezvous super peer may 
become stale.  
