passive methods is not guaranteed because of the pitch inaccuracy between fibers caused by
manufacturing tolerances. On the contrary, active methods search the position with highest optical
power and connect fiber on this position. Thus, active methods can adjust the connection for
different properties on the fiber end-face. Therefore, active methods are more suitable than passive
methods in multi-fiber alignment because of the adjustment characteristic. In the literatures, the
methods for the multi-fiber alignment can increase the optical power summation of all fibers, but the
results are not very accurate. This study used the numerical optimization methods (gradient based
and non-gradient based methods) for the optical component alignment, and discusses the
performance (required time and optical power) on different optimization methods applied on multi-
fiber alignment.
Gradient based methods are also called direct methods, and they solve the optimization
problems by “searching”. The “searching” includes the “search direction” and the “step size”. There 
are many gradient based methods for determining the search direction, such as the Steepest Descent
Method, the Conjugate Gradient Method, the DFP (Davidon-Fletcher-Powell) Method, and the
BFGS (Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno) Method [1]. There are also many methods for the step
size determination (one-dimensional search) as described in the mentioned literatures, the most
popular being the Equal Interval Search, the Golden Section Search, and Polynomial Interpolation
[2]. Other non-gradient based methods, such as Simple Hill-climbing Search [3], Hamiltonian
Algorithm [4][5],Swann’s Method and the Quadratic Estimation Method[6], the Genetic Algorithm
[7], and Nelder-Mead Simplex Method [8], are also usually used for the optimization process. In this
paper, the objective function is defined as the average power of all connecting fibers. Therefore, it is
a multi-objective optimization problem.
finite difference method for the first derivative:
i
ninii
i xΔ
)x,...x,...,x)-f(x,...,xΔx,...,xf(
x
f
d 11≈
∂
∂  (4)
The accuracy of the finite difference calculation is related to the value ofΔxi . A smaller value can
help to get a precise derivative approximation. To determine the search direction by the first
derivative is called the Steepest Descent Method. Before moving along the search direction, the
convergence condition of the process should be checked. The common convergence condition is that
the gradient norm value of the objective function is less than a predetermined small valueε.

ix
f
∂
∂ (5)
It means the increase of the objective function along the search direction is very small. It is close to
the optimal position. There are many other gradient based and Hessian based methods for
determining the search direction d, such as the Conjugate Gradient Method, the DFP (Davidon-
Fletcher-Powell) Method, and the BFGS (Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno) Method.
After determining the search direction, the step size αalong the search direction will be
calculated if the solving process continues. There are also many methods for the step size
determination (also called one-dimensional search) as described in the mentioned literatures, the
most popular ones are the Equal Interval Search, the Golden Section Search, and Polynomial
Interpolation.
On the other hand, some non-gradient based methods, such as Simple Hill-climbing Search,
Pattern Search Algorithm, and Nelder-Mead Simplex Method, are also usually used for the
optimization process. All these methods will be used and compared in the experiments of this paper.
The optical subsystem contains a light source to provide 1310nm and 1550nm lights, a power
meter to detect the light from 10dBm to -73dBm, and a fixture to fix optical fiber devices. The
mechanical subsystem contains a 6-DOF stages to provide x, y, z translations andθx,θy,θz rotations,
a precise pizo nano-stage in x-y plane, and air coshion devices to absorb the environmental
vibrations. Finally, the electrical subsystem contains all drivers for stepping motors and pizo devices,
optical sensors to obtain the precise positions, and data acquisition devices to gather the sensor
information to the computer.
4. Experimental Results
In this study, the 2MT connectors with two single-mode fibers are used for example. Figure 3
shows an experimental result and the searching trajectory with the Nelder-Mead Simplex Method.
The x- and y-axis is the position of the fiber. Although there are two fibers to be aligned, the optical
power (objective function) is summed up and averaged according to Equation (1). Therefore, the
contour lines in Figure 3 are the average power of the two fibers.
Figure 3 Average power of the two fibers
Position of
Maximum Power
Search Starting
Point
Table 1. Experimental results of different methods
Searching Methods Searching Time(seconds)
Max. Power
(dBm)
Steepest Descent Method with
Equal Interval Search 110 -31.93
Steepest Descent Method with
Golden Section Search 69 -31.92
Steepest Descent Method with
Quadratic Interpolation 24 -31.88
Conjugate Gradient Method with
Equal Interval Search 181 -32.37
Conjugate Gradient Method with
Golden Section Search 91 -31.96
Conjugate Gradient Method with
Quadratic Interpolation 30 -32.33
Simple Hill-climbing Search 25 -51.99
Pattern Search Algorithm 42 -31.89
Nelder-Mead Simplex Method 21 -44.49
5. Conclusions
The performance of the alignment governs the quality of the optical communications. The
active alignment methods search the position with highest optical power and connect fiber on this
position. This study proposed to use the optimization methods for the alignment. In this paper, the
objective function is defined as the average power of all connecting fibers. There are two indexes
used to judge the performances of different methods: the required time and the optical power.
From the experimental results, it is obvious that the gradient based methods, such as Steepest
Descent Method and Conjugate Gradient Method can have the results with better optical power, but
they cost lots of the time to calculate the gradient and the one-dimensional search. And the Quadratic
Interpolation method has distinct improvement on the time required for searching. On the other hand,
[4] Mizukami, M., Hirano, M., and Shinjo, K.,“Simultaneous alignment of multiple optical axes in a 
multistage optical system using Hamiltonian algorithm,” Optical Engineering 40, 448-454
(2001).
[5] Zhang, R., and Shi, F. G.,“Novel fiber optic alignment strategy using Hamiltonian algorithm and 
Matlab/Simulink,” Optical Engineering 42, 2240-2245 (2003).
[6] Chen, B. R. and Chang, S. H., [Development of Fiber Auto-alignment Fabrication Technology],
Master Dissertation, National Taiwan University, Taipei (2001).
[7] Sung, P. H. and Chiu, S. H., [The Study of the Fiber-optic Automatic Alignment Using Genetic
Algorithm with Hill-climbing Algorithm], Master Dissertation, National Taiwan University of
Science and Technology, Taipei (2004).
[8] Zhang, R. and Shi, F. G., “A novel algorithm for fiber-optic alignment automation,” IEEE 
Transactions on Advanced Packaging 27, 173-178 (2004).
二、與會心得
此會議主要目的是提供一公開場合，以便對於光電領域之最新觀念及研究成果進行討論
及心得交換。由於此會議應用與理論性質並重，故專家學者除來各學術單位外，工業界相關
專家亦十分踴躍參與，對於一些簡單理論於實際產業的應用可以得到很好的認識。觀察會議
中發表的論文，百分之八十以上為歐美學者提出，一方面是與會議地點有關，也與近年來光
電理論的蓬勃發展有關。由於此次研討會合併有展覽，約有十餘家廠商展出業界頂尖之技
術，提供與會學者與業界交流之機會，為產學合作最好之模式。
在言談過程中，與會學者對於國內官方機構，整合學術界與產業界進行雛型品研發已致
量產之過程深感興趣，紛紛詢問筆者相關情形，尤其是國內產業從最初技轉代工，短短幾年
內已具備研發雛型品並量產的能力，產官學三方的努力實值得鼓勵。此機會可使學校研究之
理論在產品上穫得實際之應用，產業界可藉助學校之設備及人員，培養研發能力，最重要的
是政府之參與可真正了解實際經濟發展之需求，訂定適當之方案與政策。
筆者此次參與研討會，對於會議流程、論文之撰寫與發表得到了許多寶貴經驗。特別感
謝國科會提供此項經費補助，使筆者能實際參與。
三、建議
國內應多舉辦此領域之學術會議，使國內從事相關研究之專學者能充分交換意見並加以
整合。且研討會期間若合併展覽會之舉行，對於學術界可了解最新產業發展趨勢及需求，使
研究工作不偏離產業需求，對於業界亦可充分了解學術界之研發能量，是促進產學合作之良
好機會。
由於此次會議正值暑假結束返國的高峰，機位預定十分不易且票價仍高，在加上美國生
活費用向來不低，故感謝國科會補助金額以減低筆者之負擔。
四、攜回資料
會議論文集CD一片。
會議議程及論文提要一本。
decentration during the mounting cell. Some useful formulas which provide the tilt and decenter of optical components
in mounting cell were summarized5. Thompson had developed a theory to represent fabricated optical components by a
set of simple local coordinate systems linked by physically relevant stationary pivot points. The properties of optical
elements, mechanical spacers, and the techniques for their characterization are developed6. De Witt IV had presented a
means of characterizing the rigid body motions of optical element from their nominal positions as caused by
manufacturing tolerances and thermal effects. Several cases of element tilt or decenter effect caused by mechanical
mounting components were discussed7. However, the details of the toleancing system still remain ambiguous. A surface
based tolerance model is necessary to calculate the stack-up variations of the optomechanical critical to quality
parameters.
1.2. Objective and study method
The performance of a lens system is greatly influenced by the tolerances of the optical and mechanical components.
Currently the tolerance requirement of a lens system is determined by optical designer. The real manufacturing process
capability and the variation occur in assembly process are not considered. That makes some of the lens development
project is found difficult to improve the yield rate before or during mass production. In the real world, the resultant
positional variation of the optical component is determined by the tolerance stack-up of the optical component itself and
the mechanical components used to mount the optical element. The dimensional and geometric variations of the optical
and mechanical component are determined by the capability of the manufacturing processes. If the optical performance
is analyzed by the resultant tolerances that are derived from the actual optomechanical stack-up, it is reasonable for
engineers to predict the mass production yield rate of a lens system. Then, the design can be modified or improved to
meet the requirements for mass production. The cost and delivery of a development project can be minimized, and the
quality will fit for use. This is the concept of“Design for Manufacturing” (DFM).
The objective of this study is to develop an optomechanical tolerance model that calculates the variation of the critical to
quality parameters for a lens system, such as the lens element tilt, decenter and despace within a cell. The distribution of
these parameters can be an input to the optical design. Therefore, the optical performance will be predictable than the
top-down approach, and the manufacturability of the optical system will be improved. The optomechanical tolerance
model is implemented by VSA-3D8 software. First, all the optical and mechanical components is represented as the
point geometry that is derived from the engineering specifications of the component, and from some geometric
calculation and vector operation. Second, the tolerances are assigned to the corresponding location points of each
component. Third, the system is assembled by defining the stationary points and the rolling limit conditions. Parameters
which are critical to the quality such as the stack-up element tilt, decenter and despace within a cell are defined as the
output.
2. Tolerance ANALYSIS
Tolerance analysis and tolerance allocation are the central issues of tolerance design. The difference between these two
problems is illustrated in Figure 1. In tolerance analysis, the component tolerances are all known or specified and the
resulting assembly tolerance is calculated. In tolerance allocation, on the other hand, the assembly tolerance is known
from design requirements, while the component tolerances are unknown.
Measurement and data collection is necessary for applying tolerance analysis to calculate the variation (or distribution)
of the target dimension. In general, it is difficult to modify the design to improve a product’s performance by looking at 
the raw data collected from manufacturing process. The data must be organized into a useful form for building
knowledge and for drawing conclusions that carry out the product or process performance improvement.
Statistics is the fundamental knowledge for engineer to properly gather and process sample data in tolerance analysis.
These data will come directly from the manufacturing process, from an experiment on a product, or from the random
number generator. Data that are a sample from a population can be mathematically processed into descriptive values
caled “sample statistics”. Data that comprise an entirepopulation can be mathematically processed into descriptive
values caled “population statistics”. Some population statistics can never be quantified because they are large amount 
and uncountable, or they are in process, so that it is not possible to gather the entire data set. For example, if the
manufacturing process data come out from a production line, it is only possible to manage sample data from
populations.
Fig. 2 Lens mounted in barrel
4. Optomechanical tolerance model
4.1. Tolerance modeling
Tolerances on linear and angular dimensions are assumed to be in normal distribution, and the tolerance spans a 3
sigmas range distribution with its mean value at the midpoint of the range. The GD&T symbols can be modeled by two
basic types of the tolerance zone. They are perpendicular tolerance zone and circular tolerance zone. In a perpendicular
tolerance zone the position of points are varied along a direction normal to the feature surface within a specified total
width zone. In a circular tolerance zone the position of points are varied radially on the feature surface within a specified
total diameter zone.
4.2. Tolerance model on lens element
The surface tilt variation of a lens element is caused in the edging process, it is appropriate to simulate the surface tilt
tolerance of a biconvex lens by varying the vertex of a surface. Circular tolerance zones are created at the vertexes.
Figure 3(a) illustrates an ideal centered biconvex lens. The optomechanical tolerance model of the lens is shown in
Figure 3(b). Similar method can be applied to meniscus convex lens, biconcave lens and meniscus concave lens. For an
aspheric surface, determining the local center of curvature is necessary.
Fig. 3 Tolerance model of a convex lens
4.3. Assembly variations in lens assembly
Rolling center in assembly
For a “drop-in” assembly, the real position of optical elements and mechanical elements within a cel are random. The 
determination of element tilt and decenter due to assembly variation is described as following. In Figure 4(a) a typical
centered bi-convex lens is mounted on the shoulder of an ideal cell perfectly. The optical and mechanical axis of the bi-
convex lens coincides with the axis of the bore of cell. The dotted line depicts the lens in a maximum tilted condition
due to the assembly variation. The motion of lens caused by assembly variation seems that the element rolls on its
Rolling limit in assembly
In Figure 4 and Figure 5, the maximum rolling angle of the rolling component is limited by the contact point. Contact
point is the intersection point of the bore boundary on the cell and the rolling arc on the lens or spacer as illustrated in
Figure 6. Rolling arc is usually found at the rim of rolling component and is the farthest point away from the rolling
center. The maximum rolling distance away from the axis of the bore approximately equals to (ID–OD)/2cos. In other
words, the position variation of the lens surface center in the cell is a circular variation zone with radius (ID–
OD)/2cos. In case of spacer, the position variation can take account of the variation of the chord of the arc. The radius
of the circular variation zone at the chord center is (ID–OD)/2. By creating a circular tolerance zone at the
corresponding point in cell, the position of components which is randomly located within the cell can be simulated.
Fig. 6 Components rolling limit within cell
4.4. Tolerance model of mechanical components
The mechanical components in a lens assembly are spacers, retainers, cells, and lens barrels. The dimensional and
geometrical tolerances are simulated by the general mechanical tolerance simulation techniques. In addition, some
virtual points must be added into the tolerance model according to the dimensions and tolerances of the optical elements
which are attached to the mechanical components. For instance, the optomechanical tolerance model of the cell in
Figure 4(a) is shown in Figure 7. The first virtual point C is the stationary rolling center for the attached optical element.
The position of point C is determined by the dimensions and tolerances of the attached optical element and cell itself.
The second virtual point U is the radial variation center of the attached optical element. Point U is located on the bore
axis of the cell and is at a distance R1 from point C. A circular tolerance zone parallel to x-y plane with radius (ID-
OD)/2cosis created on point U as the locating point of the attached optical element. During the execution of Monte
Carlo simulation, all the dimensions are generated randomly according to the specifications of tolerances; the position of
point C or point U of each observation is different in the sample.
5. Conclusions
The element tilt, decenter and desapce of a lens within a cell are the critical to quality optomechanical parameters of a
lens system. In this study, an optomechanical tolerance model for lens assembly has been developed and implemented
by VSA-3D software to simulate the distribution of these parameters by Monte Carol method. The model integrates the
tolerances of optical elements, the tolerances of mechanical component, and the variations of the assembly process. The
model is represented as point geometry. Because the point geometry of the optical surfaces is derived by the
mathematical equation of the surfaces and the dimensions of mechanical component that attached to it, a surface based
optomechanical tolerance model is obtained. The outputs of the model are the statistical information about the element
tilt, decenter and desapce of a lens or the resultant error of the optical axis of a lens within a cell. With this tolerance
model the performance of an optomechanical system can be anticipated. The analysis results also can be an input to
optical design software. As a result, a “Design for Manufacturing” optical system can be accomplished.
REFERENCES
1. R. S. Hilbert, , “Semi-automatic modulation transfer function (MTF) tolerancing”, Optical System Engineering, 
SPIE Vol. 193, pp. 34-43, San Diego, 1979.
2. P. Drake, “Auto-tolerancing on optical system”, Lens Design, Ilumination, and Optomechanical Modeling, SPIE 
Vol. 3130, pp. 136-147, San Diego, 1997.
3. T. Sasaki, M. Shinkai, K. Higashiyama, F. Tanaka, and T. Kishinami., “Development of Statistical Tolerancing 
System for Optical Product. –Virtual PT System and Mass Product Simulation”, International Optical Design 
Conference, SPIE Vol. 3482, pp. 528-537, Kona,1998.
4. S. Magaril, “Optomechanical sensitivity and tolerancing”, Optomechanical Engineering and Vibration Control, 
SPIE Vol. 3786, pp. 220-228, Denver, 1999.
5. K. J. Lee, Y. Yoon, and J.Maxwel, “Creative Optomechanical Tolerancing in Lens System”, International Optical
Design Conference, SPIE Vol. 3482, pp. 187-220, Kona, 1998.
6. K. P. Thompson, “Techniques for characterizing optical system fabrication”, Selected Papers on Optomechanical 
design, SPIE Vol. 770, Ed. O’Shea D. C., pp. 89-95, 1987.
7. F. De Witt IV, G.Nadorf, “Rigid Body Movements of Optical Elements due to Opto-Mechanical Factors”, Optical 
Modeling and Performance Predictions II, Proc. Of SPIE Vol. 5867, Ed. Kahan, 2005.
8. VSA-3Dsoftware, Variation Systems Analysis Inc., St. Clair Shores, MI, USA, 2000.
9. ISO 10110, “Optics and optical instruments preparations of drawing for optical elements and system”,1996.
10. D. E. Whitney, Mechanical Assemblies, Oxford University Press, New York, 2004.
