中文摘要 
由於高精度定位系統已成為高科技產業的關鍵技術之ㄧ，但是隨著精度定位要求的提
升，控制系統通常需面對許多困難的控制問題，例如：背隙(backlash)及摩擦(friction)等強
烈非線性因素，使得具有高精度感測器及高強健控制器的設計是一個必要手段。本計畫提
出自行研發的智慧型數位化驅動器，有效整合 16 位元數位訊號處理器、PWM 驅動電路、
CANbus 即時通訊介面、電流量測電路、無感測估測技術等元件。藉由智慧型數位化驅動
器的適應強健控制器及無感測估測器之韌體程式整合設計，有效驅動電力元件達成音圈馬
達及撓性機構整合線性致動器的高精密定位性能。本計畫已經發表 1 篇國際研討會論文
(ICIEA 2009, EI index)及 1 篇國際期刊論文(ICIC Express Letters, vol.3, No. 3, pp.445-450, EI 
index)。計畫成果將可輔導國內產業朝自有客制化智慧型控制與驅動整合模組開發及應用。 
 
 
 
英文摘要 
Since high precision positioning system have been played very important role for high-technique 
industry, control system must face to many difficult control issue, such as very nonlinear 
characteristic of backlash and friction, such that the high-precision sensor and more advance 
controller design should be applied to overcome these inherent control problem. This project 
proposes an intelligent digital linear motor drive bb effectively integrating 16-bit digital signal 
processor, PWM switching circuit, CANbus interface circuit, current/voltage interface circuit, 
sensorless measurement technique, and so on. The integrated firmware program design for the 
adaptive robust sensorless position control of an intelligent digital linear motor drive can 
effectively drive the power electronic device to achieve the high precision positioning control of 
linear actuator combined from voice coil motor and flexure mechanism. This project has 
published an international conference (ICIEA 2009, EI index) paper as well as an international 
journal (ICIC Express Letters, vol.3, No. 3, pp.445-450, EI index) paper. Moreover, the results of 
this project can be transferred to domestic industry company to enhance their own customized 
smart drive module. 
 
 
 
applications such as chip assembly in 
semiconductor industry, optical fiber alignment 
and cell manipulation in biotechnology. 
Conventionally, such positioning mechanical 
system with assembled joints and rigid links are 
driven by linear or rotational actuator such that 
they usually induced the highly nonlinear 
property during the motion, such as backlash, 
hysteresis, and friction [1,2]. When 
high-precision positioning is the basis control 
objective, these nonlinear properties will 
become the part of a difficult control problem 
such that its controller design may not be easily 
realized under the influence of inherent 
stick-slip or hunting phenomenon [3-5]. For 
example, some advanced control strategies have 
been proposed to achieve a long travel of 
positioning [2,3]. However, high-precision 
positioning task may not be reached due to these 
high nonlinear properties. 
In addition, in order to eliminate the influence 
of these highly nonlinear properties in system, 
two-stage positioning scheme [3], combined of 
coarse positioning using the XY-table and fine 
positioning in a high-precision micro-motion 
stage, are practically applied to achieve the 
high-precision positioning task. Significantly, 
the micro-motion in fine positioning is required 
to have sufficient travel range to compensate for 
the position errors that occurred during the 
coarse positioning. For micro-motion, flexure 
mechanisms of monolithic and miniature 
workpiece were considered to provide highly 
accurate positioning because they have less wear, 
no backlash, and no friction [6-9]. For example, 
in [6], a XYθ stage designed by three 
piezoelectric actuators and a monolithic flexure 
hinge mechanism presented a smooth, 
continuous precision positioning without 
backlash or stick-slip friction. However, its 
designed stage has the total range of 41.5μm and 
48.8μm along X- and Y-axes, respectively, and 
the maximum yaw motion range of 1.565 mrad. 
The motion range is not big enough and the 
three translational motions are coupled. 
Consequently, [7] and [8] proposed an XYZ 
flexure parallel mechanism with large 
displacement decoupled kinematic mechanism 
to achieve more than 1mm accuracy position. It 
is conducted that the equivalent right model of 
each axis can be further simplified to a second 
order system with a mass and a linear spring. 
Nevertheless, its parameters possess 
uncertainties such that simple control algorithm 
may not suit for the application of precision 
position. In addition, adaptive control 
approaches [10, 11] have been derived for a 
rigid-link robot in which prior knowledge of 
robot parameters is not necessary. However, 
adaptive control is still difficult to achieve due 
to two main obstacles: unknown transient 
performance and non-robustness [11]. During 
the initial transient period, the tracking error 
may be large because of inexact initial condition 
assignment, leading to a sluggish response due 
to lack of information. The parameters may also 
be accidentally adjusted beyond the known 
bounded region because of parameter drifts 
caused by environmental variation. Therefore, 
deterministic robust control (DRC) with 
parameter adaptation is recommended to 
attenuate the effect of model uncertainties and to 
improve transient and steady-state performance. 
This paper proposes an integrated design of 
voice coil motor and flexure mechanism, to 
remove the nonlinear properties within a 
positioning mechanism for an operation range 
more than 1mm. Furthermore, a hybrid control 
strategy combined with robust control and 
adaptive parameter mechanism is designed to 
achieve the high precision positioning 
mechanism under the condition of system 
parameter uncertainties. The robust control 
gives the system better tracking performance at 
the predicted error convergence rate, and the 
adaptive control provides the system with a fast 
adaptation mechanism to maintain control 
performance under the influence of model 
uncertainties and unknown disturbances. 
Simulations results will be conducted to 
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed 
hybrid control strategy and flexure mechanism. 
三、研究報告應含的內容 
3.1 System Model 
The experimental setup shown in Fig. 1 is the 
integrated design of voice coil motor and flexure 
mechanism. The motion is obtained from the 
deformation of flexure members controlled by 
the voice coil motor without any sliding and 
rolling contacts so that nonlinear property of a 
traditional joint, such as backlash, friction, etc., 
will not exist in this mechanism. Since the voice 
2 
introduced to cooperate with adaptive control 
law (7); that is, the new control law is modified 
as 
1
0 0
a
R
A L L
⎡ ⎤− −⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
, 
1
0
aB L
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
, , y=i, a
m
i
x
e
⎡ ⎤= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
[ ]1 0aC =   . (12) ( ) ( ) ( )a su t u t u t= +Substituting (12) into (4) obtains 
 s v sMS K S K x M uδ= − + + +    (13) 
Since M is positive, the Lyapunov function is 
defined to be Vs=MS2/2 and its derivative can be 
simply expressed as:   
 s S vV S K S K x M uδ⎡ ⎤= − − − −⎣ ⎦   s  (14) 
Assume that  
2 2 2 2
2 2
1 1 1,   [ ( ) ( ) ]
4s vMa b
u hS h K x M M δε ε= ≥ +  (15) 
where ε2a, and ε2b are the deterministic design 
parameters and KvM=Kvmax-Kvmin, and 
MM=Mmax-Mmin are the known bounded ranges 
of the unknown parameters, respectively. Then, 
using the completion square technique, (14) can 
be rewritten as: 
2( ) 2 Ss S s
a KV a K S V
c
ε ε+≤ − + + = − +  (18) 
where ε=ε2a+ε2b. As a result, the tracking error 
of the robust control method exponentially 
decays to a ball of | ( ) | / SS ε∞ ≤ K , according to 
the Bellman-Gronwall Lemma I [11]. Moreover, 
from (3), the tracking error exponentially decays 
to a ball of S(∞)/λ with a converging rate of λ, 
and can be freely adjusted by the controller 
parameters ε, KS, and λ. Based on the control 
laws of (7), (11) and (15), adaptive robust 
controller can be summarized as 
1( ) ( ) ( )
4a s v S
u t u t u t K x M K S hSδ= + = + − +    (20) 
with modified adaptive parameter mechanism 
1( ),   (v 2 )K proj Sx M proj Sγ γ δ= − = −  , (21) 
where proj(•) function is applied to guarantee 
that each parameter will always stay in the 
corresponding known bounded region. 
3.4 Observer design.  
Considering the armature circuit of the voice 
coil motor and regarding back-EMF as the 
unknown disturbance in reference [12], then the 
dynamic of voice coil motor can be represented 
as the following equation and their parameter 
descriptions are given in Table 1.  
 ,    a a a a a a
dx A x B u y C x
dt
= + =  (25) 
where 
Moreover, the speed observer can be designed 
as below: 
 (a a a a
dx )A x B u K y y
dt
= + + −
    (26) 
where [  ]Ta mx i e=
  , y i=  , and [ ]1 2 TK k k=  
is a gain matrix observer. If the observer gain K 
is selected properly, this observer can exactly 
estimate current and back-EMF because error 
dynamic between system and observer is 
stabilize. Furthermore, applying the Popov’s 
criteria to the system dynamic (25) [13], the 
moving coil Back EMF can be calculated and 
corrected by a PI adaptation mechanism  
 ( ) ( )b p ie k i i k i i d= − + −∫ t  . (27) 
where kp and ki are the gain of proportional and 
integral controller, respectively. Therefore, the 
speed and position of flexure mechanism can be 
estimated by using back-EMF that the state 
observer offers as follows 
 b
b
ex
K
=
 , 0x xdt x= +∫   (28) 
where x0 is the initial position of flexure 
mechanism and it is usually assumed to be zero. 
3.5 Simulation Results.  
Control blocks of trajectory generation, robust 
controller, adaptation mechanism, and system 
model was digitally implemented by 
Matlab/Simulink development environment with 
a sampling rate of 5Khz. The nominal values of 
the voice coil motor and flexure mechanism 
system are listed in Table 1. The bounded 
unknown parameters were considered within the 
uncertainty of 20 percent, and specified as 
Kv∈[9.36, 11.44] and M∈[0.0940, 0.1148], 
respectively. Thus, for the proposed control 
strategy (22), the controller parameters were 
chosen to be: ε2a=0.01, ε2b=0.01, λ=500, KS=600, 
γ1=50 and γ2=50. As for the speed observer in 
section 4, the gains of the PI controller is 
designed as -34.8626 and -85000 according to 
the Popov’s criteria.   
Figure 2 and 3 illustrate the sensorless 
position control for the case of the stiffness 
parameter of Kv having the uncertainty of 20 
4 
