行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
適應性前向錯誤更正在無線感知網路的影像傳輸研究
計畫編號：NSC NSC 99-2221-E-507-001
執行期間：99 年 8 月 01 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日
主持人: 柯志亨 國立金門大學資訊工程學系系助理教授
Email: smallko@gmail.com
摘要
較高的封包遺失率、較低的可用頻寬還有連續性封包遺失特性使得視訊串流在無線網路環境下是一件非
常有挑戰的工作。因此，本計劃提出了一個在無線網路環境上對於提升視訊串流傳輸品質的方法，這個方法
結合了前向錯誤更正技術,交錯技術,和無線感知技術(我們把這樣的技術稱為 FECI-CT)。前向錯誤更正技術可
以用來恢復在傳送過程成封包遺失的問題；交錯技術可以減輕連續性封包遺失問題對影像傳輸的影響；無線
感知技術可以找尋可用的頻寬，增加傳送冗餘封包的機會，以提高對視訊串流的保護。透過模擬的測試，
FECI-CT 能有效降低封包的遺失率，並能提升視訊傳輸的品質。
關鍵詞: 前向錯誤更正技術,交錯技術,無線感知技術,視訊串流,無線網路
Abstract
Video streaming over wireless networks is a challenging task due to high packet loss
rate, low available bandwidth, and burst packet losses problems. Accordingly, this project
proposes a Forward Error Correction with Interleaving mechanism combining Cognitive
Technology (FECI-CT) for video streaming over wireless networks. FECI-CT uses an FEC
scheme which recovers the lost packets to overcome the high packet loss rate and calculates
the minimum error recovery overhead which reduces the bandwidth consumption in
transmitting FEC redundancy. The interleaving scheme transforms burst packet losses into
uniform packet losses to mitigate the burst packet losses problem. The Cognitive
Technology (CT) dynamically seeks an unused channel for transmission in order to increase
the available wireless bandwidth. The simulation results show that the FECI-CT
mechanism can obtain satisfactory video quality for video streaming over wireless
networks.
Keyword: Forward Error Correction, Interleaving, Cognitive Technology, Video Streaming,
Wireless Networks
A. FORWARD ERROR CORRECTION
Figure 1: Forward error correction mechanism
The conventional FEC mechanism is based on the Reed-Solomon correction code [1]–[10].
The conventional FEC mechanism transmitting a number of FEC redundant packets, h, in one
FEC block of a number of source packets, k, provides an error recovery against an average packet
loss rate of h/(h + k) as shown in Figure 1. In the conventional FEC mechanism, any subsets of
the number of k packets are received at the receiver side so that the FEC decoder can reconstruct
the original source packets. However, burst packet losses frequently happened in wireless
networks but the average packet loss rate cannot give any indication of the length of burst packet
losses. For example, the conventional FEC mechanism will generate one FEC redundant packet
with nine source packets, that is, (h, k) is (1, 9) when the average packet loss rate is 10%.
However, the conventional FEC mechanism cannot recover the lost packets when the length of
burst packet losses is more than two packets even if the average packet loss rate is 10%.
Accordingly, the recovery performance of the conventional FEC mechanism will be decreased
when the length of burst packet losses is larger than the length of FEC redundancy.
B. COGNITIVE TECHNOLOGY
Figure 2: Concept of frequency holes
Cognitive technology (CT) has been predominantly envisaged as sharing unused frequency
channels in the local and wide range networks. There are two main characteristics of CT, which
are described as follows [17]–[19]. The first one is cognitive capability, which supports real-time
interaction with the wireless environment. The frequency holes at a specific time or location can
be identified as shown in Figure 2. The second is reconfigurability, which means the device can
be programmed to transmit and receive on a variety of frequencies by using different access
technologies supported by its hardware design. Hence, the devices are able to use the frequency
holes (unused frequency channel) and reconfigure the current operating frequency channel when
the frequency channel is crowded or subject to heavy competition in CT. Hence, the devices can
share the frequency channel to increase the utilization of frequency channels. That means the
transmission throughput is increased owing to CT. Accordingly, wireless networks with CT are
defined as self-regulating and the primary goal is to improve the end-to-end transmission
performance. The transmission performance is improved by adjusting the network parameters
such as the routing path and signal power based on the perceived feedback from the network
components. In order to effectively use the unused frequency channel by relying on CT, the
frequency channel agility can let the devices change their operating frequency channel to the
optimal frequency channel. For example, dynamic frequency channel selection is a method which
senses signals from nearby transmitters and chooses an optimal operating frequency. Hence, the
devices can exploit all opportunities for the usage of the unused frequency channel. Moreover,
power control of transmission can adjust the transmit power up to full power to allow more
efficient sharing of the unused frequency channel. Furthermore, location awareness is an
important parameter for increasing frequency channel re-use. The devices are able to determine
their locations and the locations of other devices operating at the same frequency by relying on
CT.
overhead is based on the available wireless bandwidth from the AP and the average packet loss
rate. The concepts and detailed description are given in [6]–[10]. Therefore, the proposed
FECI-CT mechanism can dynamically adjust the FEC redundancy for the required error recovery
ability with the appropriate number of FEC redundancies. Moreover, the requested bandwidth for
video streaming plus the requested bandwidth for FEC redundancy cannot exceed the available
wireless bandwidth calculated by the AP in the FECI-CT mechanism.
D. Interleaving Scheme
To overcome the burst packet losses problem which decreases the conventional FEC
mechanism recovery performance, the interleaving scheme is also applied in this project [21].
The video server before the transmission interleaves the sequence of video packets. Video packets
are read into the interleaver buffer in rows and are transmitted in columns as shown in Figure 4.
In our previous works [21], the depth of the interleaving FEC block is equal to or larger than the
length of the burst packet losses. In this way, the receiver can obtain better recovery performance.
Moreover, the receiver side also needs to feed back the length of burst packet losses to the sender
side. The sender side will consider the length of burst packet losses and dynamically adjust the
depth of interleaving to overcome the burst packet losses problem.
Figure 4: Interleaving scheme
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS
The simulation topology is shown in Figure 3. We assume that the AP and receiver side are
equipped with two wireless cards. The video trace ofthe sender transmits “Star Wars IV” [22] to 
the receiver side. The video stream is composed of at 520 Kbps at 30 frames per second, and the
maximum packet size is 1024 bytes. This project compares the FECI-CT mechanism with the
conventional FEC mechanism [21] which does not transmit packets in the secondary frequency
channel. The recovery performances of the FECI-CT mechanism and conventional FEC
mechanism are similar when the available wireless bandwidth is enough to transmit the original
source packets and FEC redundancy packets. In this project, we assume that the available
bandwidth primary frequency channel is 550 Kbps and the available bandwidth secondary
frequency channel is 250 Kbps. The FECI-CT mechanism extends the conventional FEC
mechanism and increases the available wireless bandwidth by CT.
A. Simulation result for uniform packet losses
Figure 5: Effective packet loss rate in uniform packet losses
The FEC redundancy is not enough to recover lost packets; even the conventional FEC
mechanism can determine the appropriate FEC redundancy by relying on the minimum error
recovery overhead model when the available wireless bandwidth in the primary frequency
channel is insufficient. Hence, the effective packet loss rate of the conventional FEC mechanism
is increased when the average packet loss rate is increased in Figure 5. However, the CT of the
FECI-CT mechanism can increase the available wireless bandwidth with a secondary frequency
channel. Hence, the effective packet loss rate of the FEC-CT mechanism is lower than the
schemes, and applies novel technology, that is, a cognitive network, to improve the quality of
multimedia transmission. The FEC scheme recovers the lost packets to overcome the high packet
loss rate and calculates the minimum error recovery overhead to reduce the bandwidth
consumption for injecting FEC redundancy. The interleaving scheme transforms burst packet
losses into uniform packet losses to overcome the burst packet losses problem over wireless
networks. The CT technology dynamically seeks an unused channel for transmissions to increase
the available wireless bandwidth. The simulation results show that the FECI-CT mechanism can
obtain better video quality in video streaming over wireless networks.
Reference
[1] M. Tsai, C. Shieh, W. Hwang, and D. Deng, An adaptive multi-hop FEC protection scheme
for enhancing the QoS of video streaming transmission over wireless mesh networks.
International Journal of Communication Systems, Vol. 22, No. 10, pp. 1297-1318, 2009.
[2] M. Tsai, T. Huang, C. Shieh, and K. Chu, Dynamical combination of byte level and
sub-packet level FEC in HARQ mechanism to reduce error recovery overhead on video
streaming over wireless networks. Computer Networks, DOI:
10.1016/j.comnet.2010.06.003.
[3] M. Tsai, N. Chilamkurti, C. Shieh, and A. Vinel, MAC-level forward error correction
mechanism for minimum error recovery overhead and retransmission. Mathematical and
Computer Modelling, DOI: 10.1016/j.mcm.2010.05.019.
[4] M. Tsai, N. Chilamkurti, J. Park, and C. Shieh, Multi-path transmission control scheme
combining bandwidth aggregation and packet scheduling for real-time streaming in
multi-path environment. IET Communications, Vol. 4, No. 8, pp. 937-945, 2010.
[5] M. Tsai, C. Shieh, C. Ke, and D. Deng, Sub-packet forward error correction mechanism for
video streaming over wireless networks. Multimedia Tools and Applications, Vol. 47, No. 1,
pp. 49-69, 2010.
[6] C. Ke, D. Deng, W. Lin, and M. Tsai, Concurrent multipath transmission with forward error
correction mechanism for video streaming in wireless networks. Journal of Internet
Technology, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 491-497, 2010.
[7] C. Ke, R. Cheng, C. Tsai, and M. Tsai, Bandwidth aggregation with path interleaving
forward error correction mechanism for delay-sensitive video streaming in wireless
multipath environments. Tamkang Journal of Science and Engineering, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp.
1-9, 2010.
[8] M. Tsai, N. Chilamkurti, S. Zeadally, and A. Vinel, Concurrent multipath transmission
combining forward error correction and path interleaving for video streaming in wireless
networks. Computer Communications, DOI: 10.1016/j.comcom.2010.02.001.
[9] M. Tsai, N. Chilamkurti, and C. Shieh. An adaptive packet and block length forward error
correction for video streaming over wireless networks. Wireless Personal Communications,
DOI: 10.1007/s11277-010-9981-z.
[10] M. Tsai, N. Chilamkurti, and C. Shieh, A network adaptive forward error correction
mechanism to overcome burst packet losses for video streaming over wireless networks.
Journal of Internet Technology, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 473-482, 2010.
[11] K. Chen, B. Cetin, Y. Peng, N. Prasad, J. Wang, and S. Lee, Routing for cognitive radio
networks consisting of opportunistic links. Wireless Communications and Mobile
Computing, Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 451-466, 2010.
[12] R. Thomas, L. Dasilva, and A. Mackenzie, Cognitive networks. IEEE International
Symposium on New Frontiers in Dynamic Spectrum Access Networks, pp. 352-360, 2005.
[13] Y. Zhao, S. Mao, J. Reed, and Y. Huang, Utility function selection for streaming videos with
a cognitive engine. Mobile Networks and Applications, Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 446-460, 2010.
[14] F. Javadi and A. Jamalipour, Multi-path routing for a cognitive wireless mesh network. IEEE
International Conference on Radio and Wireless, pp. 223-226, 2009.
[15] B. Lee and S. Rhee, Adaptive MAC protocol for throughput enhancement in cognitive radio
networks. IEEE International Conference on Information Networking, pp. 1-5, 2008.
[16] H. Huang, T. Huang, N. Chilamkurti, R. Cheng, C. Shieh, Adaptive forward error correction
with cognitive technology mechanism for video streaming over wireless networks. IEEE
International Symposium on Computer, Communication, Control and Automation, pp.
518-521, 2010.
[17] K. Letaief and W. Zhang, Cooperative communications for cognitive radio networks. IEEE
Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 97, No. 5, pp. 878-893, 2009.
[18] Q. Zhang, J. Jia, and J. Zhang, Cooperative relay to improve diversity in cognitive radio
networks. IEEE Communications Magazine, Vol. 47, No. 2, pp. 111-117, 2009.
[19] L. Khalid and A. Anpalagan, Emerging cognitive radio technology: principles, challenges
and opportunities. Computer and Electrical Engineering, Vol. 36, No. 2, pp. 358-366, 2010.
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估
■ 達成目標
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限）
□ 實驗失敗
□ 因故實驗中斷
□ 其他原因
說明：
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形：
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無
其他：（以 100 字為限）
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限）
論文研究成果已發表
Ming-Fong Tsai, Chih-Heng Ke, Hao-Ming Liang, and Hsiung-Yu Huang, “Forward Eror Corection with Interleaving 
Mechanism Combining Cognitive Technology for Video Streaming over Wireless Networks”, ISWPC 2011, Hong 
Kong, China, Feb. 23-25, 2011.
附件二
一、參加會議經過 
2 月 22 日 出發: 台灣---香港 
2 月 23 日~2 月 25 日 會議期間 
2 月 24 日 論文報告: Forward Error 
Correction with Interleaving 
Mechanism Combining 
Cognitive Technology for Video 
Streaming over Wireless 
Networks 
晚上:與大會主席餐敘 
2 月 26 日 離開香港回到台灣 
 
二、與會心得 
為避免參加會議過於匆忙，在２月２2 日從高雄小港機場搭機前
往香港，當天晚上先行前往確認會場，會場位於油麻地的 Eaton Hotel。
次日一早則是前往會場註冊報到，此次為期三天會議的進行分作前兩
天上下午各兩場 session 平行進行，第三天則是為三場 session 在上午
同時舉行。在第一天與第二天共安排了兩場 keynote speech，當天的
午餐亦在 Eaton Hotel 飯店舉行。Wireless Computing Session 中，本人
注意到許多國外研究人員或者學生，通常將個人的博士論文研究，有
系統性地分部份於多次國際會議中討論，如此一來可避免思考過於狹
隘及研究廣度不足等缺點。其中一篇 Vehicular Traffic Information 
點與美食。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
 
四、建議 
1. 透過此次參加國際會議與走訪其他國家，始知國際觀對於一位學
生的教育訓練之重要性，並不亞於其專業領域中的知識，而香港這寸
土寸金之地也能提供了相當良好的研究環境。本人認為或許台灣目前
尚無法有如此的環境，但應有更多的鼓勵措施或方案提供學生出國接
觸多元文化的機會，並讓師生了解國際觀的重要性。 
 
2. 學校的知名度亦有待改善，金門大學或許可考慮經由某些特別傑
出的領域來提升國際能見度。 
 
五、攜回資料名及內容 
攜回論文集隨身碟，內容包含本次會議發表的所有論文。 
 
六、其他 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 適應性前向錯誤更正在無線感知網路的影像傳輸研究
計畫主持人: 柯志亨
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-507-001- 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
