1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
電磁線性致動器驅動器設計與撓性機構的無感測定位控制 
Intelligent Drive Design of an Electromagntic Linear Actuator for 
Sensorless Position Control of Flexure Mechanism 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 98-2221-E-230 -019 
執 行 期 限：98 年 08 月 01 日至 99 年 07 月 31 日 
主 持 人：陳正義 教授   正修科技大學電機工程系 
共同主持人：  
計畫參與人員：羅健榕   正修科技大學電機工程系 
 
一、中文摘要 
高精度定位系統已成為高科技產業的關
鍵技術之ㄧ，但是隨著精度定位要求的提升，
控制系統通常需面對許多強烈非線性因素的
控制問題，使得具有高精度感測器及高強健控
制器的設計是一個必要手段。由於控制器、驅
動器、量測介面…等都是分開選用，使得微精
密定位在有限空間的控制應用受到相當大的
限制。本計畫提出自行研發的智慧型數位化驅
動器，有效整合 16 位元數位訊號處理器、
PWM 驅動電路、CANbus 即時通訊介面、電
流量測電路、無感測估測技術等元件。藉由智
慧型數位化驅動器的適應強健控制器及無感
測估測器之韌體程式整合設計，有效驅動電力
元件達成音圈馬達及撓性機構整合線性致動
器的高精密定位性能。本計畫已經發表 1 篇國
際研討會論文及 3 篇國際期刊論文。此外，本
計畫也有延伸之 6 篇國際期刊發表，計畫成果
將可輔導國內產業朝自有客制化智慧型控制
與驅動整合模組開發及應用。 
關鍵詞：撓性機構、音圈馬達、量化器、位定、
無感測 
Abstract 
High precision positioning system have been 
played very important role for high-technique 
industry. With the increasing demand for 
precision positioning, control system has to face 
to many difficult control issue caused by 
inherent nonlinear dynamics, such that the 
high-precision sensor and more advance 
controller design should be applied to overcome 
these control problem. In addition, since the 
controller, power drive, measure sensor and so 
on are separately selected and assembled on the 
system, it induces that the control application of 
high-precision positioning within limited space 
will be subjected to a lot of constrains. This 
project proposes an intelligent digital linear 
motor drive effectively integrating 16-bit digital 
signal processor, PWM switching circuit, 
CANbus interface circuit, current/voltage 
interface circuit, sensorless measurement 
technique, and so on. Based on the integrated 
firmware program design of the robust 
sensorless position control for an intelligent 
digital linear motor drive, it can effectively drive 
the power electronic device to achieve the high 
precision positioning control of linear actuator 
integrated by voice coil motor and flexure 
mechanism. This project has published an 
international conference paper and 3 
international journal papers. Moreover, the 
results of this project are under discussing to 
transfer the key technique to domestic industry 
company to enhance their own customized smart 
drive module. 
Keywords: Flexure mechanism, Voice coil 
motor, Quantizor, Positioning, Sensorless. 
二、緣由與目的 
For several decades, precision positioning 
3 
control method that can effectively estimate a 
necessary back-EMF for the moving coil motor. 
The detailed controller design is described in the 
following subsection. 
 
3.1 Quantized Current Regulator 
Theorem 1: Consider the performance-index 
signal of the quantized current control is chosen 
as the frequency-weighted sum of error y-r and 
the quantized control u; 1 2( )S E W Y R WU= = − + , 
where E, Y, R and U are respectively the Laplace 
transform of e, y, r and u; W1 and W2 are the 
weighting function. Firstly, a sliding surface is 
defined as si=e1+e2; where e1 and e2 are, 
respectively. The output signals of weighting 
functions are designated as W1(s) =C1(sI–A1)
-1B1 
and W2(s)=C2(sI–A2)-1B2. (A, B, C) are real 
matrices of the state space realization of the 
plant P (s)=C(sI–A)-1B. If all poles of 
characteristic equation 1+W1(s)W2(s)-1P(s)=0 is 
located in left-half plane and a quantized control 
law, u=Q(z(t))=umin for s>0 or umax for otherwise, 
is chosen to satisfy the condition of umin<z(t)< 
umax, where umin and umax is the predefined value 
of the switching control according to practical 
application, then the sliding-mode quantized 
current system in the inner current loop (see Fig. 
1) is asymptotically stable according to as 
Lyapunov stability analysis. 
Proof: 
Choose the Lyapunov function candidate as 
Vi=0.5si2 and its time derivative is e eV = s s  . 
Note that 
( )( ) ( )
( )
1 22 2 2
-1
1 2
1 1 1    
   
+ + +
e
w w
s e +e
C A x B y-r C A x B u
k u - z=
=
=
  
 (3) 
where ( )-12 2 0k = C B >  and 
( )1 21 1 1 1 1 1 2 2- + - +w wz= k C A x C B y C B r C A x  
For robust controller design, a quantized control 
law satisfying the hitting condition is chosen as 
 min
max
,  0
( ( ))
,  ,
u s
u Q z t
u otherwise
>⎧= = ⎨⎩
 (4) 
with min max( )u z t u< < . According to Eq. (4), the 
quantized control law guarantees  
 0,    when s 0i i iV s s= < ≠  . (5) 
When Vi is clearly positive definite and its time 
derivative is negative definite, si(t) will 
asymptotically converges to zero; i.e., si(t)→0 as 
t→∞.  
Furthermore, the equivalent control in the 
sliding quantized control system is obtained by 
solving for u from s = 1( ) 0k u z− − = , to behave 
like an unquantized system with the quantized 
control u replaced by a continuous equivalent 
control z. Then, Eq. (3) can be re-arranged as the 
control block diagram in Fig. 2(b) and its 
transfer function from input to output can be 
presented as  
 ( )( )
1
1 2
1
1 2
( ) ( ) ( )
1 ( ) ( ) ( )
Y s W s W s P s
R s W s W s P s
−
−= +  (6) 
Thus, in order to ensure the stability in the 
equivalent control mode, the poles of the 
characteristic equation of 1+W1(s)W2(s)-1P(s)=0 
must be located in left-half plane as well as no 
pole-zero cancellation in Eq. (6).  
 
 
(a) 
  
(b) 
Fig 1. (a) block diagram of the proposed control 
system, (b) simplified block diagram in the 
equivalent control  
 
3.2 Disturbance Observer design.  
After the quantized current controller has 
been applied in the inner-loop, the equivalent 
electro-mechanical dynamic equations can be 
considered as the following transfer function 
 2
( )( )
( )
f
v
KX sT s
i s Ms K
= = +  (7) 
With the velocity feedback control( See Fig. 
2(a)), the transfer function above can be 
modified as 
5 
2
2 2 1
1 1
2 1 1
2 2 1[ )]          (n n n qd
eV =V +e e -c +
e -e - k d x -c x +d i -α x
=  
  (15) 
When the system control input would be 
designed as 
( )1 1 22 1 2 ] /[ -n n nq di = e k d x c x x c e dα+ + +   (16) 
then, Eq. (15) can be re-written as 
 2 21 22 1 2 0= e eV -c -c− ≤  (17) 
where the designated parameters of c1 and c2 are 
all positive. When V2 is clearly positive definite 
and 2V  is negative definite, V2 function is 
asymptotically stable in the sense of Lyapunov. 
From the system input-output stability 
characteristics, it confirms that the speed 
tracking error and position tracking error of 1e  
and 1e  are all asymptotically stable.  
 
Speed Observer design  
Considering the armature circuit of the voice 
coil motor and regarding back-EMF as the 
unknown disturbance in reference [13], then the 
dynamic of voice coil motor can be represented 
as the following equation and their parameter 
descriptions are given in Table 1.  
 ,    a a a a a a
dx A x B u y C x
dt
= + =  (18) 
where 
1
0 0
a
R
A L L
⎡ ⎤− −⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
, 
1
0
aB L
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
, a
m
i
x
e
⎡ ⎤= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
, y=i, 
[ ]1 0aC =  
Moreover, the speed observer can be designed 
as below: 
 ( )a a a a
dx A x B u K y y
dt
= + + −
    (19) 
where [  ]Ta mx i e=
  , y i=  , and [ ]1 2 TK k k=  is 
a gain matrix observer. If the observer gain K is 
selected properly, this observer can exactly 
estimate current and back-EMF because error 
dynamic between system and observer is 
stabilize. Furthermore, applying the Popov’s 
criteria to the system dynamic (18) [13], the 
moving coil Back EMF can be calculated and 
corrected by a PI adaptation mechanism  
 2 ( ) ( )b ie k i i k i i dt= − + −∫  . (20) 
where kp and ki are the gain of proportional and 
integral controller, respectively. Therefore, the 
speed and position of flexure mechanism can be 
estimated by using back-EMF that the state 
observer offers as follows 
 b
b
ex
K
=
 , 0x xdt x= +∫   (21) 
where x0 is the initial position of flexure 
mechanism and it is usually assumed to be zero. 
 
Simulation Results.  
Control system, including the trajectory 
generation, control law and system model, was 
digitally implemented by MATLAB/Simulink 
development environment. The quantized 
current control law is designed as 
W1(s)=15000/s and W2(s)=0.01Pm(s); the 
disturbance observer is chosen as Kd=0.005 and 
Q(s)= 3 21 1[3 1]/[( ) (3 )( ) (3 3 )( ) 1] s s s s s sτ τ τ τ τ τ+ + + + + + , where 
s1≈4.2021 and τ=(9400)-1; c1= 180 and c2=150 
are chosen for Backstepping control. With Iq= 
0.1A, The reference response is obtained by 
enforcing a step input of 0.1mm into the 
standard second order system with damping 
ratio 1 and natural frequency 25 rad/sec, which 
is specified to achieve the positioning objective 
of 0.1mm within the time of 0.3 sec. Figure 3 
shows that the proposed observer design is 
satisfactory because the comparison results 
between plant and observer plant is relatively 
small. Figure 4 shows the simulation results 
when the parametric uncertainties of c and d are 
respectively considering with the variation of 
40% and 80%. It is observed that the dynamics 
from current input to position output is 
recovered as the nominal plant, comparing with 
the original plant dynamics. Furthermore, Figure 
5 demonstrates the simulation results for 
inserting backstepping control law into the 
robust control (quantized current control with 
disturbance observer). The trajectory input for xr 
is selected as the reference model of the 
standard second-order system with its poles 
located at (-25, -25). Fig 5(a) behaves the 
7 
proposed to achieve high-precision position 
control of an integrated linear actuator design, 
comprising a voice coil motor and a flexure 
mechanism. Using the flexure mechanism, the 
difficult highly nonlinear control problem can 
be eliminated during the system positioning 
motion. The back electromotive force of the 
moving coil is estimated by using a speed 
adaptive observer based on a current 
measurement. A sliding mode quantized current 
regulator is adopted to replace the role of the 
common used PWM current regulator and 
guarantees the original performance with the 
advantage of depressing the unwanted in-band 
harmonic tones and noise to the high frequency 
region. Disturbance observer design enforces 
the actual plant to behave like the nominal 
model. Then, backstepping control provides a 
systematic controller design approach to 
achieve the positioning performance. 
Simulation studies demonstrated that the 
proposed controller can produce an encouraged 
positioning response for different disturbances 
and parametric uncertainties. In future, the 
proposed scheme will be applied to the 
experimental system to validate performance in 
practical applications. 
 
四、參考文獻 
[1] R. H. A.Hensena, M . J. G. van de 
Molengraft,M. Steinbuch, “Friction induced 
hunting limit cycles A comparison between 
the LuGre and switch friction model,” 
Automatica, vol.39,pp. 2131-2137, 
December 2003. 
[2] C.-C. Cheng, C.-Y. Chen, and G.T.-C. Chiu, 
“Predictive control with enhanced 
robustness for precision positioning in 
frictional environment,” IEEE/ASME 
Transactions on Mechatronics, vol.7,no.3. 
pp. 385-392, 2002. 
[3] J.W. Ryu, D.G. Gweon, and K.S. Moon, 
“Optimal design of a flexure hinge based 
XYθ wafer stage,” Precision Engineering, 
vol.21, pp. 18-28, 1997. 
[4] H-H. Pham, I-M. Chen and H-C. Yeh, 
“Micro-motionselective-actuation XYZ 
flexure parallel mechanism design and 
modeling,” Journal of Micromechatronics, 
vol.3, no.1. pp. 51-73, 2005. 
[5] C-Y. Chen, F. Hsieh and S.H. Yu , 
“Adaptive position control of integrated 
linear actuator and flexure mechanism,” 
IEEE Conference  on Industrial 
Electronics and Applications, pp. 2492– 
2496, 2009.  
[6] C.-Y. Chen and M. H.-M. Cheng, 
“Adaptive robust sensorless position 
control of integrated moving coil motor and 
flexure mechanism”, ICIC Express Letters, 
Vol3. No.3(A), pp.445~450, September, 
2009. 
[7] M. T. White , M. Tomizuka, and C. Smith, 
“Improved track following in magnetic disk 
drives using a disturbance observer,” 
IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics, 
vol.5, pp.3-11, 2000. 
[8] B. K. Kim, and W. K. Chung, 
“Performance tuning of robust motion 
controllers for high-accuracy positioning 
systems,”,IEEE/ASME Transactions on 
Mechatronics, vol. 7, pp. 500-514, 2002. 
[9] S. H. Yu and C. I. Huang, “Voltage 
regulator modules with double-loop relay 
feedback control,” IEEE International 
Conference on Power Electronics and Drive 
Systems, vol.2, pp. 1563-1565, 2005.  
[10] S.-H. Yu and M.-H. Tseng, “Use of 
sliding-mode modulation in switch-mode 
power amplification”, IEEE Transactions 
on Industry Electronics, Vol. 55, No.11, 
2008, pp. 4022-4028. 
[11] K. H. Ang, G. Chong, and Yun Li, “PID 
control system analysis, design, and 
technology,” IEEE Transactions on Control 
Systems Technology, , vol.13, no.4, pp. 
559-576, 2005. 
[12] P. A. Ioannou, and J. Sun, Robust 
Adaptive Control, Prentice Hall, Inc., New 
Jersey, 1996. 
[13] D. W. Repperger, and J. H. Lilly, “A 
Study on a Class of MRAC Algorithms”, 
Proceedings of the 38th IEEE Conference 
on Decision & Control, vol.4, pp. 
3321-3326, 1999. 
五、計畫成果自評 
本計劃主要在設計一個三軸解耦合撓性微
運動機構的高精密定位控制，每一軸在線性
制動器(音圈馬達)控制下，可以達成控制目
標為有3~5mm 的運動範圍且每一軸的定位精
 The second International Symposium on Intelligent Informatics (ISII2009) 
會議報告 
報告人：陳正義 
服務單位：正修科技大學電機工程系 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
The second International Symposium on Intelligent Informatics為 ICIC international在亞洲
地區的重點會議之一，每年在亞洲地區舉辦各種工程的國際研討會，主要在匯集學術科
學家，工程師，業界研究人員和學者學生交流與分享他們的經驗和研究成果，其探討領
域方面包含計算機，電子和系統科學與工程，並討論所遇到的實際挑戰和解決方案，會
議均吸引許多學術界及工業界的專家前往與會。本次會議於 98年 9月 13~15日於中國大
陸秦皇島舉行，本人選擇 Control Application會議，會議的主題大都是一些先進控制技術
開發及應用。除此之外，議程中還包含了許多 Panel Session。個人大部份參加強健控制
算法及應用關領域，除了與會學者請教討論外，並嘗試其它相關控制領域，譬如：非線
性系統控制、變頻器控制、交流馬達控制等等，以提高自身的學術研究能力，希望對未
來學習研究過程能有諸多助益。 
 
二、與會心得 
個人所報告的論文安排在 14 號下午，該場次總計有 6 篇論文，與會現場 Chairman
全場掌控，在總計約 2 小時過程中會場討論聲不斷。個人發表論文因以音圈馬達與撓性
機構整合平台之強健無感測位置控制，除了現場學者討論相關精密定位控制技術及無感
測應用概念，並提供相當多意見及建議給本人，以利本人的論文更為完善。此會議中有
 1
ICIC Express Letters ICIC International c©2009 ISSN 1881-803X
Volume 3, Number 3(A), September 2009 pp. 445–450
ADAPTIVE ROBUST SENSORLESS POSITION CONTROL OF
INTEGRATED MOVING COIL MOTOR AND FLEXURE
MECHANISM
Cheng-Yi Chen1 and Marvin H.-M. Cheng2
1Department of Electrical Engineering
Cheng Shiu University
840, Cheng-Ching Rd., Niaosong Township, Kaohsiung, 83347 Taiwan
albert@csu.edu.tw
2School of Science and Technology
Georgia Southern University
PO Box 8045, Statesboro, GA 30460, USA
hmcheng@georgiasouthern.edu
Received March 2009; accepted May 2009
Abstract. This paper proposes a sensorless robust adaptive control for the integrated
design of a voice coil motor and a ﬂexure mechanism to achieve high-precision position-
ing. Flexure mechanism provides a continuous deformation for positioning without wear,
backlash, and friction. The robust control gives the system better tracking performance at
the predicted error convergence rate, and the adaptive control provides the system with a
fast adaptation mechanism to enhance the positioning performance under the condition of
system parametric uncertainties. Considering the disturbance adopted by the back-EMF,
the algorithm is proposed to estimate the speed and position using the state observer.
Finally, simulation results verify the eﬀectiveness of the proposed integrated design and
control scheme reaching the positioning accuracy better than 0.1μm.
Keywords: Flexure mechanism, Voice coil motor, Robust adaptive control, Sensorless
1. Introduction. High precision positioning with rapid response plays an important role
in many industry applications such as chip assembly in semiconductor industry, optical
ﬁber alignment and cell manipulation in biotechnology. Conventionally, positioning me-
chanical system with assembled joints and rigid links are driven by linear or rotational
actuator such that they usually induced the highly nonlinear property during the motion,
such as backlash, hysteresis, and friction [1,2]. When high-precision positioning is the
basic control objective, these nonlinear properties will become the part of a diﬃcult con-
trol problem such that its controller design may not be easily realized under the inﬂuence
of inherent stick-slip or hunting phenomenon [3-5]. For example, some advanced con-
trol strategies have been proposed to achieve a long travel of positioning [2,3]. However,
high-precision positioning task may not be reached due to these high nonlinear properties.
In addition, in order to eliminate the inﬂuence of these highly nonlinear properties in
the system, two-stage positioning scheme [3], combined of coarse positioning using the
XY -table and ﬁne positioning in a high-precision micro-motion stage, are practically ap-
plied to achieve the high-precision positioning task. Signiﬁcantly, the micro-motion in ﬁne
positioning is required to have suﬃcient travel range to compensate for the position er-
rors that occurred during the coarse positioning. For micro-motion, ﬂexure mechanisms of
monolithic and miniature workpiece were considered to provide highly accurate position-
ing because they have less wear, no backlash, and no friction [6-9]. For example, in [6], a
XY θ stage designed by three piezoelectric actuators and a monolithic ﬂexure hinge mech-
anism presented a smooth, continuous precision positioning without backlash or stick-slip
friction. However, its designed stage has the total range of 41.5μm and 48.8μm along X-
445
ICIC EXPRESS LETTERS, VOL.3, NO.3, 2009 447
2.1. Adaptive robust controller design. The system dynamics equation (1) can be
expressed in the following canonical form:
x¨ = −Kv
M
x +
1
M
u (2)
Note that the parameters of M and Kv involve uncertainty but bounded in well-deﬁned
regions; Kv ∈ [Kvmin, Kvmax] and M ∈ [Mmin,Mmax].
The tracking error is deﬁned as the diﬀerence between the positions of the ﬂexure
mechanism and the desired trajectory; i.e., e(t) = x(t)− xd(t). Let
S = e˙ + λe (3)
Then, diﬀerentiating S with respect to time leads to
S˙ = x¨− x¨d + λe˙ = −Kv
M
x +
1
M
u− x¨d + λe˙ (4)
Then, the ideal control input is speciﬁed as (5) by canceling the unexpected terms and
embedding the desired terms.
uideal(t) = Kvx + M(x¨d − λe˙)−KSS = Kvx + Mδ −KSS (5)
where KS is a positive design parameter and δ = x¨d−λe˙. Substituting (5) into (4) obtains
S˙ +
KS
M
= 0 (6)
Consequently, the tracking error of the corresponding controlled system will asymptot-
ically approach zero and system stability is essentially guaranteed. However, (6) still
implies that the controller requires explicit knowledge of the plant parameters. Since an
adaptive controller is more desirable, the control input could be modiﬁed as:
u = ua(t) = Kˆvx + Mˆδ −KSS (7)
Substituting the new control input (7) into (4) gives:
MS˙ = K˜vx + M˜δ −KSS (8)
where K˜v = Kˆv − Kv and M˜ = Mˆ − M represent the estimation errors of the plant
parameters Kv and M , respectively. Now, deﬁne a Lyapunov function, Va, to be positive
deﬁnitefor the above equation:
Va(S, K˜v, M˜) =
1
2
(MS2 +
1
γ1
K˜v
2
+
1
γ2
M˜2) (9)
Then, its time derivative is
V˙a = −S[KSS − K˜vx− M˜δ] + 1
γ1
K˜v
˙˜Kv +
1
γ2
M˜ ˙˜M = −KSS2 ≤ 0 (10)
is negative semi-deﬁnite if the parameter adaptation mechanisms are designed as below:
˙˜Kv = −γ1Sx, ˙˜M = −γ2Sδ (11)
Additionally, to improve the transient and steady-state performance of the controlled
plant, a robust control eﬀort, us(t), is further introduced to cooperate with adaptive
control law (7); that is, the new control law is modiﬁed as
u(t) = ua(t) + us(t) (12)
Substituting (12) into (4) obtains
MS˙ = −KSS + K˜vx + M˜δ + us (13)
Since M is positive, the Lyapunov function is deﬁned to be Vs = MS
2/2 and its derivative
can be simply expressed as:
V˙s = −S[KSS − K˜vx− M˜δ − us] (14)
ICIC EXPRESS LETTERS, VOL.3, NO.3, 2009 449
Figures 2 and 3 illustrate the sensorless position control for the case of the stiﬀness
parameter of Kv having the uncertainty of 20 percent, i.e. Kv = 10.92. The reference re-
sponse is generated by a standard second order system with damping ratio 1 and natural
frequency 25 rad/sec, which can reach the positioning objective of 0.1mm within 0.3 sec.
As observed from Figure 2, the proposed observer design is satisﬁed because the com-
parison results between plant and observer plant is relatively small. It can also be found
that the sensorless positioning response can smoothly trace the position reference com-
mand (see Figure 3(a)) and the position tracking error is smaller that 0.1um (see Figure
3(b)). In addition, Figure 3(c) and 3(d) respectively depicts the current output of ARC
controller and inner-loop PI controller. Furthermore, Figure 3(e) and 3(f) demonstrate
the estimated parameter response of M and Kv. Although the positioning proﬁle can be
tracked by the proposed approach, the parameter estimations can not ﬁnally reach the
practical parameter values. These diﬀerences may be due to the fact that the adaptation
laws cannot guarantee the convergence of their true values without suﬃciently rich data
along the reference trajectory. However, all of the estimated parameters are limited to
within the pre-known bounded range.
4. Conclusions. Senorless robust adaptive position control has been proposed to achieve
high-precision position control of an integrated linear actuator design, comprising a voice
coil motor and a ﬂexure mechanism. Using the ﬂexure mechanism, the diﬃcult highly
nonlinear control problem can be eliminated during the system positioning motion. The
back electromotive force of the moving coil is estimated by using a speed adaptive ob-
server, based on a current measurement. By applying a PI regulator for the current loop,
the system behavior dominated by reduced model is controlled by robust adaptive con-
trol strategy, according to Lyapunov stability analysis, to maintain the accuracy of ﬁnal
position for system parameter variations of stiﬀness and equivalent mass. The simulation
results verify the eﬀectiveness of the proposed control scheme and position mechanism to
achieve a precision position better than 0.1 μm. In future, the proposed scheme will be
applied to the experimental setup to validate the performance of practical applications.
Acknowledgment. The authors would like to thank the National Science Council, Tai-
wan, for ﬁnancial support of this research under grant NSC97-2221-E-230-018.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月01日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
電磁線性致動器驅動器設計與撓性機構的無感測定位控制
陳正義
98 -2221-E -230 -019 - 高科技產業自動化應用技術
電磁線性致動器驅動器設計與無感測定位控制技術
Intelligent Drive Design of an Electromagntic Linear Actuator and
Sensorless Position Control
正修科技大學 陳正義
高精度定位系統已成為高科技產業的關鍵技術之ㄧ，但是隨著精度定位要求的
提升，控制系統通常需面對許多強烈非線性因素的控制問題，使得具有高精度
感測器及高強健控制器的設計是一個必要手段。由於控制器、驅動器、量測介
面…等都是分開選用，使得微精密定位在有限空間的控制應用受到相當大的限
制。本計畫提出自行研發的智慧型數位化驅動器，有效整合16位元數位訊號處
理器、PWM驅動電路、CANbus即時通訊介面、電流量測電路、無感測估測技術等
元件。藉由智慧型數位化驅動器的適應強健控制器及無感測估測器之韌體程式
整合設計，有效驅動電力元件達成音圈馬達及撓性機構整合線性致動器的高精
密定位性能。本計畫將持續強化無感測控制器設計與應用，未來可研發成果與
技術轉移給廠商，輔導國內產業朝自有客制化智慧型控制整合模組開發及應用
。
High precision positioning system plays a very important role in
industry. With the increasing demand for precision positioning,
control system has to face to many difficult control issue caused by
inherent nonlinear dynamics. This project proposes an intelligent
digital linear motor drive effectively integrating digital signal
processor, PWM, CANbus, current/voltage interface circuit, sensorless
measurement technique, and so on. Based on the integrated firmware
program design, it can effectively drive the power electronic device
to achieve the high precision positioning control of linear actuator
integrated by voice coil motor and flexure mechanism. This project
will continuously study and develop the sensorless control technique
and its control application. In the future, the successful results
and techniques of this project will be considered to be transfered to機械製造業；電機及電子機械器材業；光學及精密器械製造業；研究發展服務業；其他專業、科學及技術服務業
本計劃具有嵌入式控制器的即時分散控制系統網路可有效減化複雜控制系統而成為一
個網路的架構，具有智慧型驅動模組的設計與程式設計及網路通訊技術，網路即時控
制系統的設計及研發。綜合本計畫之成果可包括微控制器理論、嵌入式單片硬體設計
、韌體程式控制、強健控制器設計、無感測控制技術、撓性定位系統設計，機電整合
技術及控制應用等方面。可應用在電子控制產品、車用電控化產品、工業控制產品、
本計畫相關文獻完整，對國內外此研究領域已作充分了解，且達成預期目標：(1)建
立較為完整的智慧型數位化驅動器設計;(2) 建立完整適應強健控制器設計;(3) 建立
完整無感測估測器設計; (4) 建立完整韌體程式整合設計技術。智慧型數位化驅動器
的適應強健控制器及無感測估測器的整合設計與應用技術具有工程實用價值，可補足
目前業界所欠缺的整合技術人才，可將「實驗平台、控制技術、嵌入式控制器設計與
韌體程式設計技術」技轉給廠商，預估將有約200萬的收益。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
期刊論文 3 1 100% 
1.Cheng-Yi Chen* and 
Marvin H.-M. Cheng, 
2009, ＇Adaptive 
robust sensorless 
position control of 
integrated moving 
coil motor and 
flexure 
mechanism＇, ICIC 
Express Letters, 
Vol. 3 No.3(A), 
pp.445~450, 
September, 2009. 
(EI)  
2.Cheng-Yi Chen*, 
Marvin H.-M. Cheng 
and Chien-Hua Lee, 
2010 ＇Backstepping 
controller design 
for a manipulator 
with compliance,＇ 
ICIC Express 
Letters, Vol. 4, No. 
5(A), pp. 
1723–1728. 
3.Cheng-Yi Chen* and 
Marvin H.-M. Cheng, 
2010,＇ Open 
Architecture Design 
of Embedded 
Controller for 
Industrial 
Communication 
Gateway＇, ICIC 
Express Letters, 
Part B: 
Applications, 
Vol.1. No.1, 
pp.51~56, 
September, 2010. 
(EI) 
 
國外 論文著作 
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
