2中文摘要
本計畫係關於一種在鈮酸鋰基板上的反射式大角度極化分離器，該極化分離器之基本結
構係由一輸入光波導結合兩非對稱分岔之輸出光波導，並在該輸入波導與輸出波導相接處
設置一種質子交換波導反射鏡。因該質子交換反射鏡為一種與極化相關之反射鏡，僅能反
射鈮酸鋰晶體中非普極化方向之光場，但對普極化方向之光場則形成折射，故利用該特性，
並經適當推導分岔角度之度數，即可設計出一種新型的大角度分岔極化分離器。在鈮酸鋰
晶片上，非普極化方向的 TE 光場，將因從折射率較高之質子交換反射鏡（非普極化方向
之折射率增加）入射至折射率較低之波導而產生全反射；而普極化方向的 TM 光場，則因
從折射率較低之質子交換反射鏡（普極化方向之折射率降低）入射至折射率相對較高之波
導而產生折射現象，如此可使 TE 及 TM 之光場分離，形成極化分離器之架構。
關鍵詞：極化分離器、鈮酸鋰、反射式彎曲波導
英文摘要
In this program, we proposed a wide-angle TE-TM mode splitter with an asymmetric
Y-junction structure using the model of nickel indiffusion (NI) and proton exchange (PE) in
LiNbO3. A PE region is placed at the junction of the NI Y-branch.
The proposed splitter consists of nickel indiffused Y-branch waveguide and proton
exchanged region. The NI process increases both the ordinary and extraordinary indices ne and no
of LiNbO3 (ne>0,no>0), hence randomly polarized waves can be guided by the NI waveguide.
The proton exchange increases the extraordinary index of refraction ne, where the ordinary index
no is decreased. The increase of ne and the decrease of no induced by PE with benzoic acid were
reported to be 0.12-0.13 and -0.04, respectively. Therefore, the refractive index of proton
exchanged region is higher than that of the waveguide in the proposed splitter for
extraordinary-polarized waves and is lower than that of the waveguide in the proposed splitter for
ordinary-polarized waves. For extraordinary-polarized waves, the proton exchange region was
designed to be a reflector. When the incident angle is larger than the critical angle of the
reflective interface, the total reflection happens and the extraordinary-polarized wave is reflected.
For the ordinary-polarized waves, the wave is refracted when the wave is across the refractive
interface.
KEYWORD：polarization splitter, LiNbO3, reflective waveguide bend
4extraordinary-polarization wave is TM polarization, the ordinary-polarization wave is TE
polarization. That is, the TM wave is almost reflected to waveguide 1 and the TE wave is almost
refracted to waveguide 2. The refractive angle2 is given by
 









 
 
f
of
n
dnn
2
cos
sin
2
90
1
11
2

 (1)
where nf is waveguide indices, and dno is the ordinary index change induced by proton exchange,
and 1 is the bending angle of TM wave.
Fig. 1 The structure of the proposed wide angle polarization splitter
RESULTS
To demonstrate the operation of the proposed bend, the normalized transmitted power of the
proposed splitter is calculated for a 2-D slab waveguide. Assume the input end is excited by the
fundamental TE and TM modes of a straight waveguide at = 0.6328 m. The device
parameters are chosen as nS = 2.286 for TE mode and as ns = 2.202 for TM mode, nf = nf–nS =
0.005, W = 5 m, np = nS + 0.12 for TM mode, and np = ns - 0.04 for TE mode.
Fig. 2 (a) and (b) shows the normalized transmitted power of the proposed splitter versus
1 with tapered length S = 200 um and Wp = 1.5 W for TE mode and TM mode, respectively. As
shown in these figures, the proposed splitter can split TE and TM mode well at1 = 20
o
–30
o
.
(a) (b)
Fig. 2 The normalized transmitted powerof the proposed splitter versus1 with tapered
length S = 200 um Wp = 1.5 W for (a) TE mode, (b) TM mode.
Fig. 3 shows versus 1 with 2 = 0
o
, -1
o
, and –2
o
for (a) TM mode of waveguide 1 and
6計畫成果自評部分
本研究計畫結果雖成功製作極化分離器，但關於其傳輸效率之量測結果則仍與理論
模擬有相當大之差距，故對於其製作之最佳條件仍有值得研究之地方。
