II 
中文摘要 
本計劃提出一種能夠實現在電信通訊系統中的麥克風陣列技術運用聲學信
號處理方法，此技術能自動偵測訊號位置以及增進語音辨識率，利用兩麥克風之
間的相位差可獲得聲源角度進而決定波束開口大小以增進語音辨識率，此外利用
波束轉向技術能應付語音訊號不在主軸位置上的情況。運用於車用電子上的電聲
元件可能會成非線性迴聲的產生，針對此種無法由線性回聲消除系統消除的成
分，我們主要利用沃特拉濾波器及漢默斯坦模式達到消除非線性迴聲的目的。 
 
 1 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Automatic speech recognizers (ASRs) have significantly improved in recent 
years but the performance degrades rapidly in noisy or reverberant environments.  
Therefore, noisy speech needs to be processed by speech improvement algorithms.  
For instance, the delay-and-sum (DAS) beamformer is a well known algorithm which 
is computational efficiency.  However, it only performed well for uncorrelated noise.  
The one-channel noise reduction (NR) technology has been widely applied in the 
communication community, and was expected to enhance speech recognition.  
Nevertheless, the improvement of one-channel NR in speech enhancement does not 
always translate into substantial gains in speech recognition performance, because too 
aggressive NR destroys the speech features.  The one-channel NR encounters the 
dilemma of noise reduction or distortion.  Therefore, microphone array is used in the 
proposed algorithm, which can ease the tradeoff of the above situation. 
Lately, a missing-data approach was suggested to enhance speech recognition in 
noisy environments, based on designing whether data are reliable.  The performance 
of the missing-data approach is significantly improved comparing to that of the DAS 
beamformer.  Nevertheless, the success of this technique depends on the sufficiency 
of reliable data and errors in imputation procedures affect the performance.  The 
speech recognition in the environments with non-stationary noise still remains a tough 
problem.  An alternative is the binaural processing which is well known for 
separating speech signals.  Several algorithms were discussed the phenomena of 
binaural system, such as interaural time difference (ITD) and interaural intensity 
difference (IID).  Recently, computational auditory scene analysis (CASA) systems 
were developed to construct an ideal binary mask by comparing the signals at the two 
microphones in binaural systems.  Both voice and unvoiced speech signals could be 
segregated by CASA systems from a noisy environment.  However, the computation 
 3 
subtending angle.  Furthermore, the selection of volume affects the performance and 
needs to be adjusted, which is also discussed in this paper. The speech recognition 
will decrease when the sound source isn’t on the main lobe of microphone arrays, and 
the system needs the beam-steering technique to change the main lobe of array pattern 
by electronic compensation.   
Current AECs which use linear adaptive filter are hinged on the assumption that 
an acoustic echo path can be modeled as the linear filter.  However, there are 
nonlinear components in the echo path due to low-cost audio equipment.  The main 
nonlinearities are generated from the loudspeaker and power amplifier in the 
transmission path.  The performance of AEC is degraded with this nonlinear 
distortion.  As a result, the nonlinear model has to be taken into account.  In this 
study, we neglect the nonlinearities of A/D and D/A converter.  Since the signal 
power is small in the microphone, the microphone behaves linearly even it is cheap.  
The nonlinear distortions are generated when the amplifier is overdriven, and they are 
memoryless.  The Hammerstein model consisting of a cascade of memoryless 
polynomial filter and finite impulse response filter has been proposed to overcome 
this nonlinearity.  Another sort of nonlinear distortion is caused by the loudspeaker 
since the time constants of their electro-mechanical systems are large compared to the 
sampling rate, and this nonlinearity behaves with memory.  To compensate the 
nonlinearities with memory, the adaptive Volterra filter has been utilized to model the 
echo path in the acoustic echo cancellation system.  In this study, we propose the 
modified system for Hammerstein model to avoid instability of convergence. 
 5 
the ITD of the ith noise signal dependent on time and frequency.  If a time-frequency 
bin ( ),m mk l  is controlled by a strongest interference source n, the above equations 
can be approximated as 
( ) ( )1 , ,m m n m mP k l N k l≈                                          (3) 
( ) ( ) ( ),2 , ,k n m mm
j d k l
m m n m mP k l e N k l
ω−≈                                (4) 
and the ITD of this bin can be estimated by calculating the unwrapped phase 
difference between two microphones: 
( ) ( ) ( )1 2
1, min , , 2
m
n m m m m m mr
k
d k l P k l P k l rπ
ω
≈ ∠ −∠ −                 (5) 
Then, a binary mask can be formulated as 
( ) ( )
1,        if ,
,
0.01,   otherwise         
n m m
m m
d k l
B k l
τ ≤= 

                               (6) 
where τ is the ITD threshold. It means that only bins with its ITD smaller than τ are 
supposed to belong to the target signal.  Correspondingly, the speech signal ( ),S k l  
is re-established from multiplying the average signals of the two microphones 
( ),P k l  by the mask ( )j , jB k l  got in above formula. 
( ) ( ) ( ){ }1 21, , ,2P k l P k l P k l= +                                      (7) 
( ) ( ) ( ), , ,S k l B k l P k l=                                           (8) 
Finally, the enhanced speech signal is converted to the time-domain with the aid of 
inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) and overlap addition (OLA) method.  In this 
paper, three approaches of technical refinement are exploited to enhance the 
aforementioned PDE algorithm.  As shown in Fig. 2, after the received signal is 
transformed to the time-frequency domain, the system estimates the speech and noise 
 7 
gradients.  Assume a function ( )f x  is continuous and having only one minimum 
over the interval [a, b].  An interior point c is between a and b, and 
 ,         1c a b cw w
b a b a
− −
= = −
− −
                                   (9) 
where 
10
2
w< < .  Suppose another interior point d is over [c, b], and 
 
d c z
b a
−
=
−
                                                    (10) 
Notice that the choosing of d is applied the same strategy as that of c, which means 
1
z w
w
=
−
                                                    (11) 
For minimizing the number of the iterations, the fraction 1-w musts equal to w+z, i.e. 
the new point d is the symmetric point of c in the interval[a, b], namely 
 1 2z w= −                                                     (12) 
Comparison of Eqs. (11) and (12) yields the following quadratic equation 
 2 3 1 0w w− + =                                                (13) 
and the root  
3 5 0.382
2
w −= ≈                                            (14) 
is used. Note that the number is related to the golden ratio g, where 
 
5 1 1
2 1
g
w
+
= =
−
                                            (15) 
Therefore it’s called “golden section search”.  Now comparing ( )f c  and ( )f d , 
if ( ) ( )f c f d< , then the new interval is [a, d]; otherwise, it becomes [c, b].  The 
rule at each stage is to keep a center point lower than the two outside points.  The 
 9 
 
(b) Relative recognition rate 
Fig.  3  The searching process of the ITD threshold by GSS. 
 
Fig. 4(a) shows the performance of PD algorithm where the ITD threshold τ varies 
from 0.1 to 1.5.   It can be found that the recognition rate gets better by increasing τ 
but decreases sharply whenτ exceeds a value which differs with the included angle.  
It turns out that there is a relation between τ and the included angle.  To find the 
optimal ITD threshold, GSS is used in this paper, which can quickly search the local 
minimal of a function in an interval.  The result of the optimal τ found by GSS is 
shown in Fig. 4(b).  The included angle is from 15 degrees to 90 degrees at SNR 0dB 
and 6dB, and “babble” noise is used as the noise source.  It indicates that the optimal 
thresholds τ at SNR 0dB and 6dB are similar to each other, which means the influence 
of SNR is small and can be disregard.  Because the curve of the optimal τ has an 
obvious trend, it can be fitted by a polynomial of low degree easily.  A polynomial 
fitting of degree 2 is shown in Fig. 4(b), which is found to be 
 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )5 2 2 27.76*10 1.69*10 5.45*10i i iτ − − −= − + −             (19) 
where i is the included angle.  It revealed that, by using a polynomial fitting, it can 
use only 3 parameters to represent the optimal τ varying with the included angle very 
 11 
Fig.  4   (a) Recognition rate in babble noise at SNR 0dB. (b) The optimal ITD 
threshold tau and the polynomial fitting. 
B. Beam steering 
The beam steering technique is discussed in this section to overcome the problem 
about the movement of the target source. With the aid of electronic compensation, the 
direction of the main lobe of the microphone array pattern can be changed. Assume 
the angle to be moved is θM, then the beam steering filters are given as 
sin
sin
s M
M
j f nd
j n k d c
nw e e
ω θ
θ
−
−= =                            (20) 
where n is array index, ω is the frequency index, and fs is the sampling rate, d is the 
spacing between microphones. In time domain, the beam steering filter can be written 
as a delay: 
sins Mf nddelay c
θ
=                                            (21) 
That is, by applying different delays to the signal received in every microphone, the 
direction of main lobe can be controlled and steered to any desired directions. One 
thing has to be noticed is that these delays are not integer delays, hence Lagrange 
interpolation is used here to interpolate fractional delay values, which is easier to 
achieve and more flexible. Simplicity, it can approximate a fractional delay by a FIR 
filter, 
0
( )   for 0,1, 2...
N
k
k n
D kh n n N
n k=
≠
−
= =
−Π                                   (22) 
where N is the order of the filter. The case N=1 corresponds to linear interpolation 
between two samples, which suffices when the sampling frequency is high enough. 
The result is in Fig. 5 with the target source angle from 15° to 75° aside the main lobe. 
When the target source is far from the main lobe, the recognition rate degrades 
 13 
C.  Simulation and Experiment 
The simulated and experimental results are presented in this section.  The input 
stimuli are 50 commends (547 wave files) rendered from a point source placed at 90 
degrees (the look direction).  The speech recognizer is based on continuous density 
Hidden Markov Model (HMM) with Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCCs) 
as features.  As shown in Fig. 7, the interelement spacing is 5 cm and the sampling 
rate is 8 KHz, the distance between microphone array and the speakers is 30 cm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.  7  The simulated and experimental environments. 
 
  Assume a room of dimensions 12 12 9× ×  m, with the microphone located 
at the center of the room.  The SNR is from 0 to 15dB and the subtending angle is 
from 15 to 90 degrees.  Babble noise is used as the noise source.  FIG. 8 compares 
the performance of the original noisy signal, PDE algorithm with fixed ITD threshold, 
automatic ITD threshold selection algorithm, and the proposed PDE-based 
enhancement algorithm.  The subtending angle between target source and 
interference signal is 15°, 45°, and 75°, and there is no reberberation. The volume 
gain here is set to be 0.0945.   The original noisy signal is the signal received in one 
microphone, and PDE algorithm with fixed ITD threshold is the result of the basic 
PDE system, where the ITD threshold is chose to be 0.4.   
12 m 
12 m 
9 m 
5 cm 
0.3 m 
1 m 
center 
Subtending angle 
target sources 
noise 
microphone array 
 15 
proposed PDE-based enhancement algorithm (a) Subtending angle = 75°. (b) 
Subtending angle = 45°. (c) Subtending angle = 15°. 
 
Automatic ITD threshold selection algorithm is organized as follows:  First, two 
complementary masks are constructed using the binary threshold, one for the target 
signal, the other for interference signal.  After that, the short-time power for the 
target and the interference is calculated.  Finally, the ITD threshold is obtained by 
minimizing the cross-correlation of the target and interfering signals after a 
compressive nonlinearity, as shown below: 
0
0 0
1
0
1 [ | ) [ | )
ˆ arg min
T I
T I
L
T I R R
l
R R
R l R l
N
τ
τ τ µ µ
τ
σ σ
=
−
=
∑
                   (23) 
where RT[l | τ0) and RI[l | τ0) are the power of the target and the interference signals 
after nonlinearity, 
TR
σ and 
IR
σ  are the standard deviations of RT[l | τ0) and RI[l | τ0) , 
respectively, and 
TR
µ  and 
IR
µ  are the means of RT[l| τ0) and RI[l | τ0), respectively.    
From F4. 18 can find that, the proposed PDE-based enhancement algorithm gets 
excellent performance no matter what subtending angle it is, which enhances WRR 
about 50-60% at SNR 0dB and all the accuracies in different subtending angles are 
above 90% even if the noise is very close to the target source like 15 degrees, whereas 
the fixed-threshold PDE and the automatic-threshold selection algorithm degrade at 
low SNR.  Furthermore, the automatic-threshold selection algorithm performs as 
well as the proposed algorithm when the subtending angle is large, like 75 degrees, 
but significantly degrades if the subtending angle is small and SNR is low. 
The effect of reverberation presents in Fig. 9.  The Room Impulse Response 
(RIR) software is used here to simulate reverberation effects.  T60 represents the 
 17 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
Fig.  9  The effect of reverberation, where the subtending angle is from 0 to 90 
degrees. (a)T60=0.138 secs. (b)T60=0.966 secs. (c)T60=2.898 secs. 
 
FIG. 10 is recognition rate of record wave files. The recording is at an anchor 
chamber, and therefore the effect of reverberation can be neglected.  SNR is 0dB in 
this case, and the noise source is babble noise.  It indicates that, all WRR of original 
signals are low, between 10% and 30%, and after the proposed PDE-based 
enhancement algorithm, the performance is excellent even when SNR is low. 
 
Fig. 10  The recognition rate with the optimal threshold of record wave file. 
 19 
where M is the memory length and hr are the r-th order Volterra kernels.  x(n) and 
y(n) are the input and output signals, respectively.  However, the numerical 
complexity of Volterra filter is too high for the practical acoustic echo cancellation 
system.  The AEC using second order Volterra filter (Fig. 11) was proposed.4  For 
the first order volterra kernel, the input vector is 
 [ ]1( ) ( ) ( 1) ( 1)
Tn x n x n x n M= − − +x                 (25) 
where M is memory length.  The first-order filter can be represented as 
 1 1 1 1ˆ ˆ ˆˆ [ (0) (1)  ( 1)]
Th h h M= −h                                  (26) 
For the second-order volterra kernel, the input vector is 
 
2
2 ( ) [ ( ) ( ) ( 1)  ( ) ( 1)
             ( 1) ( 1)  ( 1) ( 1)]T
n x n x n x n x n x n M
x n x n x n M x n M
= − − +
− − − + − +
x 

                  (27) 
and the second order filter is 
 2 2 2 2
2 2
ˆ ˆ ˆˆ [ (0,0)  (0,1)  (0, 1)
ˆ ˆ          (1,1)  ( 1, 1)] ,T
h h h M
h h M M
= −
− −
h 

                          (28) 
The PNLMS adaptive Volterra filter can be formulated as 
 1 1 2 2ˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
T Te n d n n n= − −h x h x                                  (29) 
 1 11 1
1 1
( ) ( ) ( )ˆ ˆ( 1) ( )
( ) ( ) ( )T
n e n nn n
n n n
α
+ = +
K xh h
x K x
                              (30) 
 2 22 2
2 2
( ) ( ) ( )ˆ ˆ( 1) ( )
( ) ( ) ( )T
n e n nn n
n n n
α
+ = +
K xh h
x K x
                   (31) 
where 1α  and 2α  are the first and second kernel step size, respectively.   
B. Hammerstein Model 
The over driven amplifier mainly generates the memoryless nonlinear distortions.  
The nonlinear AEC dealing with memoryless nonlinearity is proposed in this section.  
The Hammerstein model consisting of linear FIR filter and the nonlinear function is 
illustrated in Fig. 12.  The memoryless nonlinear function f is the polynomial model 
 21 
The update equation of ˆ ( )nh  is based on PNLMS algorithm 
 1
ˆ( ) ( ) ( )ˆ ˆ( 1) ( )
ˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ( )T
n e n nn n
n n n
α
+ = +
K sh h
s K s
                   (37) 
In an LMS-type adaptation for adaptive filter is derived by forming the gradient of 
squared error simple with respect to the adaptive coefficients.  From the Eq. (35) and 
Eq. (36),  
 
2 ( ) ˆˆ2 ( ) ( ( ), ( )) ( )
ˆ( )
Te n e n n n n
n
∂ ′= −
∂
f a x h
a
                                (38) 
and 
 ˆ ˆ ˆ( ( ), ( )) [ ( ) ( 1)  ( 1)] ( ) ( ) ( )Tp p p Pn n n n n N n n n= − − + =f a x x x x a X a       (39) 
 2( ) [ ( ) ( )  ( )]P Tp n x n x n x n=x   (40) 
As a result, the Eq. (34) becomes  
 
2 ( ) ˆ2 ( ) ( ) ( )
ˆ( )
T
P
e n e n n n
n
∂
= −
∂
X h
a
                                    (41) 
the update equation of ˆ( )na  based on NLMS algorithm is  
 
2
2
ˆˆ ˆ( 1) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )ˆ|| ( ) ( ) ||
Ta
PT
P
n n n n e n
n n
α
+ = +a a X h
X h
                    (42) 
 
C. Modified Nonlinear Adaptive Algorithms 
The divergence behavior has been observed in both nonlinear AEC systems. 
Although the Volterra kernels are adapted separately, the error introduced by a 
misadjusted linear kernel acts as a distortion for the adaption of the quadratic kernel.  
Therefore, the adaptive Volterra filter system is modified as shown in Fig. 13.  The 
main idea of this system is to choose the smaller error signal for the linear kernel 
adaption.  First, we define  
 2 2 21 1 1 1 1 1ˆ( ) ( ) ( ),   ( ) ( 1) (1 )
Te n d n n e n e n eλ λ= − = − + −h x                   (43) 
 2 2 21 1 2 2ˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ),   ( ) ( 1) (1 )
T Te n d n n n e n e n eλ λ= − − = − + −h x h x          (44) 
 23 
 
Fig. 14 Modified Volterra filter system. 
D.  Performance evaluation of nonlinear echo cancellation  
In the aspect of experiment about nonlinear echo cancellation, in order to create 
nonlinearity into AEC system, we turn the level of loudspeaker larger.  In the 
following experiments, we used female speech signal and CSS as the echo signals.  
The experimental configuration is the same as the previous settings for the linear 
AECs.  The sample rate here is also 16 kHz.  First we evaluated the nonlinear AEC 
performance using modified Volterra filter method.  For the speech input signal, the 
ERLE obtained using linear PNLMS algorithm denoted by the solid line in Fig. 15 
reaches approximately 18 dB. The ERLE of the modified Volterra filter (dotted line) is 
further increased by 3 dB with nonlinear processing.  For the CSS input, the ERLE 
can be increased by 5 dB via the modified Volterra filter method.   Next, by the 
same protocol, we examine the nonlinear AEC with the modified Hammerstein model.  
For the speech and the CSS as the input signals, the ERLE can be increased by 3 dB 
and 5 dB with nonlinear processing (Fig. 16). 
 
 25 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Time (s)
E
R
LE
 (d
B
)
 
 
Linear AEC
Nonlinear AEC (Volterra)
 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Time (s)
E
R
LE
 (d
B
)
 
 
Linear AEC
Nonlinear AEC (Hammerstein)
 
Fig. 16 The ERLE for a recorded echo for the CSS input signal. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION 
 When the noise signal is close to the speech, PD is proposed to solve this 
problem. Using GSS to find the optimal ITD threshold differing with the included 
angle and the optimal volume can further improve the speech recognition. Finally, 
simulated and experimental results are discussed to prove effective in enhancement of 
speech recognition. The performance of linear acoustic echo cancellers is limited by 
nonlinear components in the echo path.  We used a nonlinear AEC to deal with 
nonlinear echoes.  Experiment results showed that the proposed nonlinear AEC 
 27 
[7] H. Park and R. M. Stern, “Spatial separation of speech signals using amplitude 
estimation based on interaural comparisons of zero crossings,” Speech Commun., 
vol. 51, no. 1, pp. 15–25, 2009. 
[8] K. J. Palomaki, G. J. Brown, and D. L. Wang, “A binaural processor for missing 
data speech recognition in the presence of noise and small-room reverberation,” 
Speech Commun., vol. 43, pp. 361-378, 2004. 
[9] N. Roman, D. L. Wang, and G. J. Brown, “Speech segregation based on sound 
localization,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol. 114, pp. 2236-2252, 2003. 
[10] C. Kim, K. Kumar, B. Raj, and R. M. Stern, “Signal separation for robust speech 
recognition based on phase difference information obtained in the frequency 
domain,” INTERSPEECH-2009, Brighton, UK, pp. 2495–2498, Sept. 2009. 
[11] C. Kim, R. M. Stern, K. Eom, and J. Lee, “Automatic selection of thresholds for 
signal separation algorithm based on interaural delay,” INTERSPEECH-2010, 
Makuhari, Japan, Sept. 2010). 
[12] J. Bergqvist and F. Rudolf, “A silicon condenser microphone using bond and 
etch-back technology,” Sensors and Actuators A, vol. 45, pp. 115-124, 1994. 
[13] W. H. Press, S. A. Teukolsky, W. T. Vetterling, and B. P. Flannery, Numerical 
recipes in C: the art of scientific computing, 2nd ed, Cambridge University 
Press: New York, 1992, pp. 397-402. 
[14] ITU-T P. 56, “Objective measurement of active speech level,” ITU-T 
Recommendation, 1993. 
[15] J. G. Wilpon, L. R. Rabiner, C. H. Lee, and E. R. Goldmn, “Automatic 
recognition of keyword in unconstrained speech using hidden Markov models,” 
IEEE Trans. Acoustics, Speech, Signal Proc., vol. 38, no.11, pp. 1870-1878, 1990. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 免持聽筒汽車套件之迴聲與噪音控制系統
計畫主持人: 白明憲
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-007-143-MY3 學門領域: 動力與控制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
民國 97 年榮獲國科會「傑出技術移轉貢獻獎」、 
榮獲民國 99 年度國科會機械學門傑出研究獎、 
榮獲民國 99 年度 ’’國科會機械固力學門專題研究計畫成果發表會 口頭報
告第一名’’ 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
