2crystal is 1.531017cm-3 and resistivity is
1.199 -cm. Titanium was deposited on the
front surface of GaSe substrate by thermal
evaporator in a vacuum of 110-5 Torr
chamber. The shadow mask was used to
define the contact pattern of the titanium
metal electrode. The thickness of the
titanium is 100nm, and the Schottky contacts
electrode were circle with diameters of 200m,
300m and 400m, respectively. After
metal deposition, the contacts were treated by
rapid thermal annealing (RTA) with different
temperature for 30 sec. The ohmic contact
on the back side of GaSe substrate was then
formed by soldering high-purity indium.
Current-voltage (I-V) characteristic was
measured at room temperature by using an
semiconductor parameter analyzer. The
rectified characteristics, including Schottky
barrier height, ideality factor and reverse
leakage current were evaluated. The XRD
was used to identify the variation of phases
after the diode was treated at different
temperature annealing. Both SEM and AFM
were used to observe the surface morphology
of the diodes.
4. Results and discussion
The effective barrier height b and
ideality factor n, were determined by using the
thermionic emission current voltage
expression:
 



 



  1exp
nkT
IRVq
II ss (1)
where  kTqTAAI bs /exp2**  (2)
where Rs is the series resistance of the diode,
V is the applied voltage, q is the electronic
charge, k is the Boltzmann constant, T is the
absolute temperature, A is the diode contact
area, A** is the effective Richardson constant,
b is the effective Schottky barrier height
(SBH) at zero bias, and n is the ideality factor.
Theoretical A** value of 247 Acm-2K-2 was
used for GaSe. The value is based on
effective electron mass using mn=0.5mo. The
ideality factor is derived from
  JVkTqn ln//  .
The current–voltage (I-V) characteristic of
the contact was measured at the environment
of room temperature. Fig. 1 shows the
forward characteristics of the Ti/p-GaSe
contact. The saturation current density, Js, is
4.5310-7 A/cm2 for the as deposited contact,
is 1.4810-8 A/cm2 for the 250C annealed
contact and is 2.2610-10 A/cm2 for the 350C
annealed contact. Their effective Schottky
barrier height is 0.82eV, 0.90eV and 1.01eV
for the as deposited, 250C-annealed, and
350C-annealed contacts, respectively. The
formation of the barrier arose from when the
metal was contacted to GaSe, electron flow
from the metal into the semiconductor till the
Fermi levels on the two sides are aligned.
These electrons are minority carriers in the
p-type GaSe. After reaching the
semiconductor they recombine with holes
giving rise to a space charge layer of ionized
acceptor layer. The space charge region
yielded a diffusion barrier at the contact
interface. The ideality factor of the
as-deposited contact is 4.5, of the
250C-annealed contact is 5.5 and of the
350C-annealed contact is 2.8. The
decreasing of the ideality factor indicated the
passivation of the surface states in the contact
interface after RTA annealing.
Figure 1 The forward current-voltage characteristics of the
Ti/p-GaSe diode after it was treated with various annealing
temperature.
Fig. 2 shows the reverse characteristics of
the Ti/p-GaSe contacts after different
temperature annealing. The reverse leakage
current depends on both bias and annealed
temperature. As the reverse bias voltage
increased the leakage current increased.
While, the leakage current could be reduced as
it was passed through thermal annealing.
The reverse leakage current density is equal to
2.9510-5 A/cm2 at the bias of 4V of the as
deposited diode. It could be improved to
9.1510-7 A/cm2 as it was treated with 250C
annealing for 30 sec. Also, it could be
further improved to 3.810-7 A/cm2 as the
annealing temperature was increased to 350C.
4(b)
(c)
Figure 4 The XRD analysis of the Ti/p-GaSe diode, (a) as
deposited, (b)250 annealed, (c) 350 annealed,℃ ℃
respectively.
Figures 5(a), 5(b) and 5(c) show the AFM
pictures of the as deposited diode, the
250C-annealed diode, and the
350C-annealed diode, respectively. The
area of these diodes which were shown on the
AFM pictures is 1m2. The root mean
square (RMS) value is equal to 4.23 18.04 and
2.23 for the as deposited diode,
250C-annealed diode and 350C-annealed
diode, respectively. The rough surface
morphology of the 250C-annealed diode was
due to the reaction between Ti and GaSe
which producing new grains and these grains
leading to the roughness of the contact surface.
For the 350C thermal annealing, the
morphology of the contact surface became
smooth.
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 5 The AFM pictures of the diode (a) as deposited,
(b)250C annealed , and (c) 350C annealed, respectively.
Figures 6(a), 6(b) and 6(c) show the SEM
pictures of the as deposited diode, the
250C-annealed diode, and the
350C-annealed diode, respectively. A very
smooth surface morphology was shown at the
surface of the as deposited diode. As the
annealed temperature was increased, the
contact showed rough surface morphology
gradually. As it was increased to the
annealing temperature of 350C, many small
6the temperature was increased, more and more
electrons have sufficient energy to surmount
the higher barrier. As a result, the dominant
barrier height will increase with the
temperature and applied voltage. Fig. 8
shows the temperature dependent of the
effective barrier and ideality factor of the
300C-annealed Ti/p-GaSe diode. The
ideality factor is 2.3 and the effective barrier
height is 0.56 eV at the measurement
temperature of 198K. As the measured
temperature was increased to 373K, the
ideality factor was decreased to 1.6 and the
effective barrier height was increased to
0.9eV.
Figure 8 Temperature dependent of the effective barrier and
ideality factor of the 300C-annealed Ti/p-GaSe diode.
The relationship between effective
barrier height and ideality factor of the
300C-annealed Al/p-GaSe diode at different
measured temperature was shown in Fig. 9.
Accordingly, the effective barrier height
which is expected for a homogeneous ideal
contact, can be found by the asymptotic value
of the barrier extrapolated at n=1. By the
extrapolation of the data reported in Fig. 9, we
determine the value of 1.09 eV for the
300C-annealed annealed diode. The value
was less than two third of the bandgap energy.
The real effective barrier height showed about
0.31 eV deviated from the ideal value. The
deviation came from the inhomogeneous of
the contact interface and the lower barrier
patches of the junction.
Figure 9 The relationship between effective barrier height
and ideality factor of the 300C-annealed Ti/p-GaSe diode, at
different measured temperature.
Fig. 10 shows the Richardson plots
ln(Js/T2) vs 1000/T of the 300C-annealed
Ti/p-GaSe diode. The results obtaining from
the plotting is found to be nonlinear at the
measured temperature. A slightly deviated
from the linear relationship between ln(Js/T2)
vs 1000/T at low temperature region is
obviously. This implies the contact followed
the thermionic emission model at high
temperature measurement. The activation
energy was evaluated which is 0.17 eV for
the 300C annealed diode.
Figure 10 The Richardson plots of the 300C-annealed
Ti/p-GaSe diode.
5. Conclusion A new Schottky contact,
Ti/p-GaSe shows an effective barrier height of
1.01eV with an ideality factor of 2.8 and a
reverse leakage current density of 3.810-7
A/cm2 at a reverse voltage of 4V after rapid
thermal annealing at 350C for 30 sec. The
annealed diodes also showed linear
relationship at the capacitance-voltage (C-2-V)
崑山科技大學 出差情形報告表 支用整體獎補助款（←報告表須上傳，其餘不必）□學校經費 □其它
請填寫教職員工編號：T093000168
填寫日期 98 年 6 月 15 日
請填寫表單序號：20090615094300
姓名 黃文昌 單位 電子工程系 職稱 副教授
出差事由
(會議、研習名稱)
出席 EMRS Spring 2009 國際研討會
出差期間 98 年 6 月 5 日 ～ 98 年 6 月 13 日，共計 9 日
出差地點 法國 史特拉斯堡 主辦單位 歐洲材料學會
參與人員
 Viola Vogel, Laboratory for Biologically Oriented Materials, Department of
Materials, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
 A.M. Bradshaw, Max-Planck Institute for Plasma Physics, Garching/Greifswald,
Germany
 Alan J. Heeger, Physics Department, University of California, Santa Barbara, USA
 Ingemar Lundström, Division of Appled Physics, Department of Physics, Chemistry
and Biology Linköping University, Sweden
 Jean-Frédéric Clerc, Coordinator of ComplexEIT project, Director of Strategy and
Evaluation, CEA, France
主席或貴賓
致詞摘要
The E-MRS was founded in 1983, the European Materials Society (E-MRS) now has
more than 3000 members from industry, government, academia and research laboratories,
who meet regularly to debate recent technological development of functional materials.
The EMRS differs from many single-discipline professional societies by encouraging
scientists, engineers and research managers to exchange information on an
interdisciplinary platform, and by recognizing professional and technical excellence by
promoting awards for achievement from student to senior scientist level. As an adhering
body of the International Union of Materials Research Societies (IUMRS), the EMRS
enjoys and benefits from very close relationship with other Material Research
organizations elsewhere in Europe and around the world.
會議或研習
內容概述
There are 19 symposiums and five workshop are included in the conference, they are
cataloged by :
MATERIALS FOR ENERGY
A Mesoscopic Dye Sensitized and Organic Heterojunction Solar Cells
B Inorganic and Nanostructured Photovoltaics (INP)
C Materials for Polymer Electrolyte Membrane Fuel Cells
D Nano-Scale Energetic Materials: Fabrication, Characterization and Molecular
Modeling
contact between Ti and GaSe”一篇論文。
於會中也覺得外國學者在論文之簡報或海報論文之表達上，非常的清楚並切要重
點，非常值得學習。
後續應辦
工作
就著有機薄膜及透明氧化物持續研究，並製作基本之蕭特基元件及歐姆接觸之結構
探討電性及材料特性，並將此行所得之新靈感應用於研究中。
會簽單位
附註 1. 出差人須先上人事室網頁下載「出差情形報告表」填妥後，至學校網頁首頁之使用者登入後點
選「出差報告管理系統」，再點選「上傳出差報告」會出現「出差報告作業系統」頁面。將此頁
面中的教職員工編號與表單序號填入出差人所填寫「出情形報告表」中之教職員編號與表單序
號.並填妥「出差報告作業系統」的頁面（主旨說明須與出差事由一致）.上傳出差報告表等資料
後點選確定送出。會議有重要宣達或後續應辦工作，務必儘速陳報主管，並會簽相關單位。
2. 列印本表與出差旅費報告表粘至粘存單併同請款。
3. 申請差旅費時，須一併附上開會(或研習)通知單。
4. 紙張不夠時，可自行拷貝後再撰打。
5. 請將本表單粘貼至粘存單後面。
organic layer on the p-type Si substrate the wafer with the
ohmic contact and then was cut into pieces to form the thin
film layer of Alq on their front surfaces. Thermal evaporator
was used to deposit Alq on the front surface of p-Si substrate
in a vacuum of 410-5 Torr chamber. The deposition rate
was between 0.1 and 0.2 nm/s, as determined using a
quartz-crystal thickness monitor. The metal contact was
used by a shadow mask in the deposition the metal electrode.
Al was chosen to be the Schottky contacts. The thickness of
the Al is 1000Å, and the Schottky contacts electrode were
circle with diameters of 200m. All metallic surfaces were
cleaned by acetone and methanol before processes.
Results and discussion:
The effective barrier height b and ideality factor n, were
determined by using the thermionic emission current voltage
expression:
 





 



  1exp
nkT
IRVq
II ss (1)
where  kTqTAAI bs /exp2**  (2)
where Rs is the series resistance of the diode, V is the applied
voltage, q is the electronic charge, k is the Boltzman
constant, T is the absolute temperature, A is the area of diode,
A** is the effective Richardson constant, b is the effective
Schottky barrier height (SBH) at zero bias, and n is the
ideality factor. Theoretical A** value of 32 A cm-2K-2 was
used for Si. The saturation current density, Js, was obtained
by extrapolating the linear region of the semilog forward I-V
curves to the zero applied voltage and the b values were
calculated from Eq. (2). The values of ideality factor n were
obtained from the slope of linear region of semilog forward
I-V plots, and they were derived from
  JVkTqn ln//  (3)
Fig. 1 shows the current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of the
Al/Alq/p-Si. The saturation current density, Js, of the diode
is 8.45×10-6 A/cm2. The effective Schottky barrier height
which derived from the thermionic model is 0.77eV. Its
ideality factor is 1.53 and shows a straight line over four
decade of the plot. For the reverse leakage current, the
current density of the diode is 1.25×10-4 A/cm2 at the reverse
bias voltage of 6V.
Fig. 1. The I-V characteristics of the Al/Alq/p-Si diode.
The C-V characteristics of the diode with measured at
10KHz is shown in Fig. 2. The capacitance is nearly
constant for the reverse biases, the capacitance decreases
with the applied bias, which reveals that a depletion region
exists at the Alq and Si substrate, and the depletion region
width increases with the reverse bias. The capacitance of the
diode is 2.93nF for the 10KHz. It can seen from this figure
that the values of capacitance are shown to increase in the
low frequency. The dependence of the capacitance of a
rectifying contact upon frequency can also arise due to the
presence of deep lying impurities in the depletion region of
semiconductor. Deep impurities are energy levels of intrinsic
lattice defects or impurity atoms that have energy near the
center of the band gap. Presence of deep traps in the
depletion region of the Schottky barrier makes the junction
capacitance a complicated function of the bias voltage and
the measuring frequency. As the electrode voltage is
decrease, the p-Si substrate become depleted. And as the
depletion width is increase, the depletion capacitance of the
diode decreased. The depletion capacitance in serial with the
capacitance of the organic film. The total capacitance will
reach its minimum values as the depletion width reaches its
maximum width. The minimum capacitance in the forward
bias region is given as follows [9]:
msi
i
Wd
C
)/(min 



where εi is the permittivity of the organic film, εs the
permittivity of the semiconductor, d the thickness of the Alq,
and Wm the maximum width of the depletion region. The
maximum width of the depletion layer is calculated as about
1.409μm.
According Sheet et al.[11], the ideality factor of an
inhomogeneous Schottky barrier diode with a distribution of
low Schottky barrier heights may increase with a decrease in
temperature. The Schottky barrier consists of laterally
inhomogeneous patches of different barrier heights.
Fig. 5 Temperature dependent of the effective barrier
and ideality factor of the Al/Alq/p-Si diodes.
Schmitsdorf et al.[12] used Tung’s theoretical approach and
they found a linear correlation between the experimental
zero-bias Schottky barrier heights and ideality factors. We
prepared a plot of the experimental barrier height versus the
ideality factor as shown in Fig. 6. The straight line in Fig. 6
is the least squares fit to the experimental data. As can be
seen from Fig. 6, there is a linear relationship between the
experimental effective barrier heights and the ideality factors
of the Schottky contact that was explained by lateral
inhomogeneities of the barrier heights in the Schottky
diodes[13]. The extrapolation of the effective barrier heights
versus ideality factor plot to n = 1 has given a homogeneous
barrier height of approximately 1.09eV. Thus, it can be said
that the significant decrease of the zero-bias barrier height
and increase of the ideality factor especially at low
temperature are possibly caused by the barrier
inhomogeneities. The barrier height, which decreases with
decreasing temperature, obtained from Eq. (2) is called
apparent or zero-bias barrier height.
Fig. 6 The relationship between effective barrier height
and ideality factor of the Al/Alq/p-Si diodes, at
different measured temperature.
Conclusion
The I-V-T characteristics of Al/Alq/p-Si schottky diodes
were discussed in the paper. The effective Schottky barrier
height and ideality factor determined from the I-V plots
were found to be a strong function of temperature. As
measurement temperatures were performed from 213 to
323K, the ideality decreased from 1.91 to 1.44 and the
barrier height increased from 0.56eV to 0.78eV. It is found
that the deviation from the ideal I-V characteristics is due to
the inhomogeneity of the barrier of the contact interface.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank the National Science
Council of the Republic of China, for financially supporting
the research under Contract NSC-97-2221-E-168-004 and
the author would like to thank NDL staff for their helpful
support.
REFERENCES
[1] S.V. Frolov, M. Liess, P.A. Lane, W. Gellermann, Z. V.
Vardeny, M. Ozaki, K. Yoshino, Phys. Rev. Lett. vol. 78,
pp. 4285-4288, 1997.
[2] Z. Gadjourova, Y.G. Andreev, D.P. Tunstall, P.G.
Bruce, Nature 412 pp. 520-522, 2001.
[3] M. Takada, H. Yoshioka, H. Tada, K. Matsushige, Jpn.
J. Appl. Phys. vol. 41, pp. 73-75, 2002.
The study on Schottky contact between Ti and GaSe
Wen-Chang Huang*,1, Chia-Tsung Horng2, Yu-Min Chen1, Chien-Chou Chen1
1 Department of Electronic Engineering, Kun Shan University, No.949, Da Wan Rd., Yung-Kang City. Tainan Hsien, 710, Taiwan,
R.O.C.
2 Department of Electro-Optical Engineering, Kun Shan University, No.949, Da Wan Rd., Yung-Kang City. Tainan Hsien, 710,
Taiwan, R.O.C.
PACS 71.55.Gs, 72.10.-d, 72.15.Eb, 73.10.At, 73.20.-y, 73.43.Jn
A new Schottky contact, Ti/p-GaSe was presented at this
study. It shows an effective barrier height of 1.01eV
with an ideality factor of 2.8 and a reverse leakage
current density of 3.810-7 A/cm2 at a reverse voltage of
4V was measured after rapid thermal annealing at 350C
for 30 sec. The capacitance-voltage measurement was
also used to evaluate the diode characteristics. The
annealed diodes also showed linear relationship at the
capacitance-voltage (C-2-V) plotting. The formation of
TiGaSe2 was observed by X-ray diffraction analysis after
the diode was annealed at 250C for 30 sec.
and reverse leakage current were evaluated. The XRD was used to identify the variation of phases after the diode was treated
at different temperature annealing. Both SEM and AFM were used to observe the surface morphology of the diodes.
3. Results and discussion The effective barrier height b and ideality factor n, were determined by using the
thermionic emission current voltage expression:
 



 



  1exp
nkT
IRVq
II ss (1)
where  kTqTAAI bs /exp2**  (2)
where Rs is the series resistance of the diode, V is the applied voltage, q is the electronic charge, k is the Boltzmann constant, T
is the absolute temperature, A is the diode contact area, A** is the effective Richardson constant, b is the effective Schottky
barrier height (SBH) at zero bias, and n is the ideality factor. Theoretical A** value of 247 Acm-2K-2 was used for GaSe.
The value is based on effective electron mass using mn=0.5mo. The ideality factor is derived from   JVkTqn ln//  .
The current–voltage (I-V) characteristic of the contact was measured at the environment of room temperature. Fig. 1
shows the forward characteristics of the Ti/p-GaSe contact. The saturation current density, Js, is 4.5310-7 A/cm2 for the as
deposited contact, is 1.4810-8 A/cm2 for the 250C annealed contact and is 2.2610-10 A/cm2 for the 350C annealed contact.
Their effective Schottky barrier height is 0.82eV, 0.90eV and 1.01eV for the as deposited, 250C-annealed, and
350C-annealed contacts, respectively. The formation of the barrier arose from when the metal was contacted to GaSe,
electron flow from the metal into the semiconductor till the Fermi levels on the two sides are aligned. These electrons are
minority carriers in the p-type GaSe. After reaching the semiconductor they recombine with holes giving rise to a space
charge layer of ionized acceptor layer. The space charge region yielded a diffusion barrier at the contact interface. The
ideality factor of the as-deposited contact is 4.5, of the 250C-annealed contact is 5.5 and of the 350C-annealed contact is 2.8.
The decreasing of the ideality factor indicated the passivation of the surface states in the contact interface after RTA annealing.
Figure 1 The forward current-voltage characteristics of the Ti/p-GaSe diode after it was treated with various annealing temperature.
Fig. 2 shows the reverse characteristics of the Ti/p-GaSe contacts after different temperature annealing. The reverse
leakage current depends on both bias and annealed temperature. As the reverse bias voltage increased the leakage current
increased. While, the leakage current could be reduced as it was passed through thermal annealing. The reverse leakage
current density is equal to 2.9510-5 A/cm2 at the bias of 4V of the as deposited diode. It could be improved to 9.1510-7
A/cm2 as it was treated with 250C annealing for 30 sec. Also, it could be further improved to 3.810-7 A/cm2 as the
annealing temperature was increased to 350C. This results accounts for the passivation of defects or interface states of the
contact interface after thermal annealing.
Figure 4(a) shows the XRD analysis of the as deposited Ti/p-GaSe diode. Most of the diffraction peaks belong to the
phases of GaSe. The diffraction angles of GaSe(004) was centered at 2=22.16, of GaSe(110) was centered at 2=48.55, of
GaSe(208) was centered at 2=65.39. The diffraction peak of Ti(103) was corresponding to 2=70.78and the diffraction
peak of Ti(201) was corresponding to 2=77.54. As the diode was treated with RTA annealing at 250C for 30 sec, a new
phase of TiGaSe2(362) was found at 2=58.06as shown in Fig. 4(b). The diffraction peak of Ti(103) at 2=70.78showed a
degradation in intensity while the intensity of Ti(201) was strengthen. This means that the reaction between was Ti and GaSe
was occurred after the thermal annealing. Most of the signal of the diffraction peaks became weak after 350C thermal
annealing as shown in Fig. 4(c).
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 4 The XRD analysis of the Ti/p-GaSe diode, (a) as deposited, (b)250℃ annealed, (c) 350℃ annealed, respectively.
(b)
(c)
Figure 6 The SEM pictures of the diode, (a) as deposited (b) 250C annealed, and (c) 350C annealed, respectively.
The Ti/p-GaSe showed better electrical characteristics after it was treated with RTA annealing. The effective barrier
height increased to 1.01eV after 350℃ annealing. For the unannealed diode, it showed a larger leakage current and
non-linear 1/C2 vs. V plotting. This reveals that a great deal of defects existed in the depletion region during reverse biased
condition. It also showed that the ideality factor deviated much from ideal value. As the annealed temperature was
increased, the effect of passivation was increased. The annealed temperature of the diode could up to 350℃ in the RTA
system. These annealings passivated the interface states of the contact interface. The generation-recombination effects of
the diode which response to the bias voltage was degraded. It was confirm by the observation of the ideality factor at forward
bias and by the lowering of the leakage current density at reverse bias of the annealed diodes. The diode also showed a very
good surface morphology after RTA annealing. The grains of new phase, TiGaSe2, were shown on the AFM and SEM
pictures after 250℃ annealing. For a further annealing of 350℃ of the RTA, the new phase was decomposed and showed a
lower intensity at the analysis of XRD. It also led to a smoother of surface morphology.
4. Conclusion A new Schottky contact, Ti/p-GaSe shows an effective barrier height of 1.01eV with an ideality factor of
2.8 and a reverse leakage current density of 3.810-7 A/cm2 at a reverse voltage of 4V after rapid thermal annealing at 350C
for 30 sec. The annealed diodes also showed linear relationship at the capacitance-voltage (C-2-V) plotting. The formation
