keyword search and enables the user to perform a 
semantic-based query and search for the required 
information, thereby improving the circulation and 
sharing of information. 
英文關鍵詞： Information retrieval； Semantic extraction； Query 
extension； Query matching 
 
of information. 
2. Semantic-enable Information Retrieval Model and Architecture 
2.1 Semantic-enable Information Retrieval Model 
Word-based digital contents are mostly stored in various formats like *.txt, *.html or *.xml. The 
information retrieval system must analyze these content formats and perform collection and conversion of 
digital contents in different formats before searching for the corresponding contents based on query entered 
by the querist so as to provide the querist the required information in a factual and accurate manner 
(O’Leary, 1999; Zantout & Marir, 1999). To improve the efficacy of information query and to enable the 
effective use of information query mechanism by the user in searching for information for different 
applications, a semantic-based approach must be adopted to enable understanding of human languages by 
computers, thus reducing the difficulty in discerning and extracting content semantics (Tao et al., 2005). In 
recent years a number of IR mechanisms have been developed along the direction of enhancing the 
capabilities of processing and analyzing human semantics (Jeong et al., 2008; Nouali & Blache, 2004). 
Topic map is one of such solutions which is a content indexing technology based on which a 
content-oriented information retrieval model can be developed to enable the processing of documents 
through the semantic features of their contents while reflecting the semantics of a document (Park & 
Hunting, 2002).  
In this study, a semantic pattern expression capable of representing content semantic features has been 
designed to represent human semantics with topic-to-topic associations and to replace keywords as the input 
of the information retrieval system. Semantic pattern comprises the following basic elements: (1) Topics, 
which is a set of concepts that represent key topics or things in a specific domain; (2) Association, which 
stands for various relation types between two topics; and (3) Occurrence, which records the location and 
frequency of topics in the content. Semantic-enable information retrieval model utilizes semantic pattern as 
the basis to transform query of the querist and the semantic features in the content repository into semantic 
pattern, so as to identify the corresponding contents by matching against the semantic pattern, as shown in 
Fig. 1. 
In this study, the semantic process, recognition, and matching has been utilized as the technical basis to 
design a semantic-enable information retrieval model (Fig. 2), through which the content querist can perform 
semantic-based information retrieval in the following process: 
First of all, user’s query was analyzed in the semantic extraction and determination component to 
extract its semantic features for the purpose of determining contents of the query and representing them in a 
structured, materialized semantic pattern. Since the querist’s query usually has limited contents and cannot 
fully represent the intended query topics, the semantic extension component will identify other potentially 
relevant semantic features based on semantic features of the query and include them into the query patterns 
so as to increase the number of semantic features in the query as the basis for matching. The next step was to 
classify query patterns through semantic pattern clustering component to identify the cluster of contents 
most approximate to the query. Finally, pattern matching component was utilized to identify the most 
approximate content among the content cluster and submit it to the querist. 
2.2 Architecture of Semantic-enable information retrieval mechanism  
Semantic-enable IR mechanism has been developed based on semantic-enabled IR model proposed in 
and included them into the original query pattern to create the extended semantic pattern, thereby 
improving the performance of subsequent semantic matching. 
(3) Semantic pattern clustering and matching: Query pattern was matched against content pattern by 
means of semantic features to identify approximate contents, thereby improving the performance of 
information retrieval.  In this study, Support Vector Machine (Chang et al., 2000) was utilized to identify 
and classify semantic patterns of the contents. In the process, the cluster of contents that are approximate to 
query was created to enable fast matching and searching for content. Components included in this module 
are: 
 Semantic pattern preprocessing: Clustering was performed on semantic patterns with SVM to 
identify a linear function that can separate training data to compute distance between vectors in the 
training phase 
 Optimal hyper-plane separation: The boundary between two clusters was expanded to its 
maximum through hyper-plane separation so as to derive an optimal clustering solution. 
 Support vector generation: In each cluster, the support vector that best represents cluster features 
was identifies through matching against support vector to reduce redundant content comparisons 
in the search process. 
 Semantic pattern clustering: Matching was performed between the extended query pattern and the 
clustering function of each cluster to identify the cluster to which the query pattern belongs. 
 Content matching: In a cluster, the similarity between the query and each content in the cluster 
was computed to sort contents by order of similarity and offer the most approximate content to the 
querist. 
3. Semantic-enable Information Retrieval Mechanism 
3.1 Semantic Determination and Extraction 
In this study, a new content feature recognition and representation model of semantic pattern has been 
developed. Compared to the traditional approach of expressing content features in keywords, semantic 
pattern enables a complete presentation of human semantics by providing structure and physical substance to 
the summary semantic features of the content. The semantic pattern was constructed through the semantic 
determination and extraction module in a process, which contained three parts of content preprocessing and 
summarization, semantic identification and representation, and semantic pattern construction: 
3.1.1 Content Preprocessing and Summarization 
Preprocessing was a basic process in semantic retrieval that involved analyzing and retrieving contents 
of various formats from content depository and converting them into the basic term set by tokenization. The 
term set was then processed with stopword list to remove irrelevant terms like pronouns, articles and 
symbols and to convert variants of verbal nouns and participles into their original form for the purpose of  
reducing the volume of terms being processed. Since topics in a specialized field are usually expressed in 
nouns while their associations are expressed in verbs, it is therefore necessary to retrieve nouns and verbs 
from these processed terms with part of speech analysis before proceeding with the subsequent content 
summarization phase. 
The purpose of content summarization is to retrieve thinking the author wishes to express by collecting 
and extracting those parts with significant implications in the content based on significance of the content 
MWF
SW
n
i
iij
j



 1
)t(
)(
 (3) 
of which, W(ti) is the weight of topic i, Fij is the frequency of words of topic i in sentence j, and M is 
the number of words in sentence j. The final phase of content summarization was to extract sentences of 
greater significance out of the content according to sentence weight. Since the sentence weight had already 
been computed in the content weighting phase, the final phase involved sorting content sentences by order 
of significance, to be followed by abstracting sentences with weights above a content summarization 
threshold set by content managers, e.g. top 10%, 15%, or 20%, thus completing the content summarization 
process. 
3.1.2 Semantic Identification and Representation 
Most of the unstructured or semi-structured textual contents come in a format that comprises section, 
paragraph and sentence. In a linguistic sense, a sentence can be the minimum unit that is capable of 
expressing a complete semantics, and a sentence must contain semantic elements like subject, predicate and 
object (Sowa, 1999). Consequently, it has been assumed in this study that the co-appearance of two topics in 
the same sentence implies an association between the topics, and that this association is the semantic relation. 
For an effective analysis on the overlapping of topics in sentences, data mining technology was utilized in 
this study to analyze and identify semantic relations between topics. In semantics, subject and object are 
expressed in topics, and the process of semantic identification and representation started with analyzing and 
discerning any overlapping between topics in sentences. An intersection between two topics indicates an 
association. Consequently, a topic matrix could be derived from the results to express topic associations.  
Based on the topic matrix, topic associations were discerned, to be followed by a semantic analysis on 
the nature of topic associations to complete the construction of a basic semantics. In most studies on human 
semantic identification, content semantic has been retrieved by analyzing verbs in the content, to be 
followed by matching semantics to generate semantic types (Bergholtz & Johannesson, 2001; Veda C Storey, 
1993). The semantic types thus created were then used to express all semantics in the content. For instance, 
Storey employed ontology, linguistics and database analysis to classify and express semantics in 24 basic 
semantic types like “is-a,” “motion,” “part-of,” “get,” and so on (Veda C Storey, 2005). 
Due to diversity and complexity in human semantics, the aforesaid simplified model of semantics is 
rather easy to implement but tends to result in over-abstraction of semantics that can be expressed by the 
system concerned. Such simplified semantics are too abstract to enable any easy comprehension by the 
content querist on the original semantics that the content authors intend to express. For example, when all 
semantics related to “movement” are simplified and expressed in “motion,” the original semantic of 
“assistant transfers textbooks,” cannot be faithfully reflected due to the ambiguity created by replacing 
“transfer” with “motion”. Furthermore, such semantic ambiguity may lead to errors in the classification or 
query of content. To address these problems, semantic identification in this study started with a linguistic 
analysis to identify all semantic elements of the original semantic, which were then simplified with WordNet 
2.1 by screening off those repetitive semantic elements with same connotations, thus completing semantic 
identification under the premise of preserving the expressiveness and completeness of the semantics. 
Topic associations are predicates in the semantic elements, and they are usually expressed in verbs in a 
sentence. With verbs as its target, the process of semantic identification started with identifying all verbs 
latent semantics in the query semantic pattern were extended to serve as the reference for comparison. The 
statistical latent semantic analysis was utilized in this study to identify latent semantic relations of the 
content. LSA has been referred to projecting frequencies of words in the document onto a vector space by 
means of singular value decomposition to express the semantics of word-word, word-document and 
document-document relations (Landauer et al., 1998). Under the constraint of limited number of query 
descriptions, using LSA for latent semantic expansion could avoid potential query failure caused by a 
shortage of required keywords in the query. Compared to other semantic extension models that require the 
support of domain knowledge, LSA relied only on statistical analysis of the domain corpus to immediately 
infer latent semantic relations and was void of the problem of time and cost that would be required to 
establish domain knowledge base (Yeh et al., 2005). 
Content semantic extension module comprises the four steps of semantic matrix construction, singular 
value decomposition, semantic matrix dimensionality reduction, and latent semantic selection. 
3.2.1 Semantic matrix construction 
To indentify the latent semantics of a query, semantic patterns generated from the semantic 
identification and representation module was transformed into a sematnic matrix that reflected the 
relationships between topics and semantic patterns, as expressed in Fig. 7(a). Axis Y of the semantic matrix 
is the semantic pattern Set, Spi, and axis X is topics that have appeared in the semantic patterns, or Tj; tij is 
the frequency of topic j in pattern i. When conducting a query, the query semantic pattern (QSP) was added 
into the semantic matrix to preliminarily induce the topic-topic relationships between the query and the 
domain corpus, as shown in Fig. 7(b). 
3.2.2 Singular value decomposition 
Semantic matrix is basically composed of frequencies of content topics, and the occurrence of an 
irregular and disorderly matrix may lead to the rise of singular value, which in turn renders no reasonable 
solutions for the simultaneous equations of that matrix. Consequently, it is necessary to apply singular value 
decomposition (SVD) algorithm to decompose the semantic matrix and transform it into a weight-based 
matrix. SVD has been used mainly for linear least squares problem (M. W. Berry et al., 1995; M. Berry, 
1992), and it employs the principle of matrix transformation to replace the original matrix with a similar 
matrix and at the same time eliminate singular values to enable smooth matrix computation. 
In this study, the query semantic pattern was placed into the semantic matrix, to which SVD was 
applied to derive the product of thee matrices: T
set USVSP  . SPset stands for the semantic matrix S, and it is 
a diagonal matrix that represents the eigenvalues of semantic patterns in the semantic matrix and is capable 
of reflecting the semantic space of the matrix; U is the method of representing all topics of the semantic 
pattern in the semantic space; matrix V is the method of representing query semantic pattern in the semantic 
space. The eigenvalues and eigenvector of the matrix could be derived from processing the semantic matrix 
with SVD, and they were then utilized for approximation at the semantic matrix dimensionality reduction 
phase to identify latent semantic relations between query and the content set. 
3.2.3 Semantic Matrix Dimensionality Reduction 
In dimensionality reduction, the approximated semantic matrix (
setSP' ) was used to replace the original 
semantic matrix (
setSP ) and the relations between topics and patterns originally expressed in frequency tij 
between query semantic pattern and content semantic pattern (Salton & McGill, 1986), thus completing the 
process of semantic searching.  
Semantic searching module contains the four steps of semantic pattern preprocessing, optimal 
hyper-plane separating, support vector generating, semantic pattern clustering and content matching. The 
extended semantics were integrated into the query semantic pattern to replenish its latent semantics, to be 
followed by the use of SVM for clustering the contents in the content repository based on semantic features 
of these contents. The clustering model of SVM was computed through optimal hyper-plane separate to 
divide the content set into different clusters by semantic features. In the process the two separated data sets 
were located the furthest from the clustering interface, and then those support vectors that reflected the 
respective clusters were selected to represent clusters. The next step is to compare query semantic pattern 
against the support vectors of each cluster to identify the cluster that the query belongs to. Finally, vector 
similarity coefficients were utilized in that cluster to compare the query with each content so as to submit the 
most approximated content to the querist. 
3.3.1 Semantic pattern preprocess 
In this study, when using SVM for content clustering, at the training stage the linear equations capable 
of separating training data were identified to perform the computation of distances between vectors. Such a 
content semantic pattern set S can be expressed as below: 
}{}{ 1, -1, yR1...n,  x, i,yxS i
d
iii   (4) 
of which n is the number of pattern, 
ix is the vectors with d-dimension document features, iy  is its 
class, f(x) is the linear equation that divides the training data into clusters, w is the normal vector of the 
corresponding line for
ix , b is the displacement of this line:  
( ) Tf x w x b  ， 
0,  1
0,  1
    

   
T
i
T
i
w x b y
w x b y
 (5) 
3.3.2 Optimal hyper-plane separate 
At this stage, semantic patterns generated from the semantic determine module were used as training 
data to eliminate those non-representative patterns, to be followed by clustering semantic patterns with the 
optimal hyper-plane separate computation to identify the optimal hyper-plane between clusters.  
3.3.3 Support Vector Generation 
In order to improve clustering performance, this study began with clustering query patterns to identify 
their corresponding clusters, to be followed by matching contents in those clusters to reduce the need for 
matching large volumes of data. Consequently, this stage aimed to generate support vectors that represent 
those cluster features by maximizing the margin with the lagrange function and then redefining hyper-plane 
as a support hyper-plane function. Points that fall in the support hyper-plane and satisfy the new 
displacement b’ are support vectors.  
3.3.4 Semantic Pattern Matching and Ranking 
This process concerns identifying and submitting the most approximate content to querists by matching 
in the corresponding clusters for the query semantic patterns, and it covers the following steps: first of all, 
Results in Table 1 indicate the document summarizing rate of 4.98%, and the average of 38.5-28.06 
topics per document. The highest rate was found in Category 3 (ontology application), which was partly due 
to the fact that Category 3 documents were generally longer and partly because the majority content of those 
reference books used for constructing topic maps was dedicated to ontology applications. Consequently, 
more extracted topics fell under Category 3 than the others. The same phenomenon was also found in the 
semantic extraction experiment, in which Category 3 again had the highest number of average extracting 
semantics. The above findings indicate that content and features of topic maps have significant effects on the 
results of content summarization and semantic extraction.  
All extracted sentences contain 3 semantic elements (2 topics and 1 verb) that together form a 
semantics that describes the content features. For example, when the Category 3 document: knowledge 
representation for product design using techspecs concept ontology was being processed, the sentence: 
“Using an ontology, we can capture domain knowledge in a generic way and provide a common vocabulary 
for a domain.” went through the process of semantic identification and representation component to be 
converted into the semantics :{ontology _common vocabulary==>[provide]}, {ontology 
_knowledge==>[capture]}; while the extraction of another sentence ”We use a device ontology for 
representing the behavior, functionality, and relationships of products and their components.” resulted in 
semantics like{ontology_product==>[represent]}, ontology_behavior==>[represent],  
ontology_relationship==>[represent]. These semantic sets together form the semantic pattern, which not 
only expresses concepts like ontology, common vocabulary, knowledge, and product in the content, but also 
reflects the complete semantics through predicates, such as provide, capture and represent, that describe 
relationships between concepts, thus creating a complete semantics that enhances the IR system’s 
capabilities of comprehending and identifying documents. In contrast to a traditional keyword-based 
retrieval model, semantic patterns record and reflect content information in an intuitive and comprehensive 
manner, and, just like barcodes for product identification, they enable the IR system to immediately obtain 
important features of a document.  
4.2 Experiment 2.1: Query Semantic Pattern Extension 
Semantic extension module analyses literature to simplify the original semantic matrix into an 
extension semantic matrix, so as to identify latent semantics of the query and provide more content semantic 
features for matching at the semantic matching phase. The extent to which latent semantics can be extended 
depends on the size of the extension semantic matrix: the larger the matrix, the more extended the semantics 
and the matching conditions will be, thus improving semantic matching accuracy. The size of extension 
semantic matrix is determined by the rank value, and, consequently, Experiment 2 involves adjusting rank 
values to find the most appropriate rank value, so as to assist semantic extension module in identifying the 
required latent semantics. In experiment 2, the rank values were set within the range of 50-min to analyze 
how changes in rank value affect query extension. Take the 6 Category-1 queries (Table 2) for example. The 
lower the rank value, the more extended topics were generated, with the most topics extension at the 
minimal rank value. 
In order to analyze how changes in rank value affect the quantity of semantics extension for queries 
under various categories, the ranges and rates and extension for 24 queries under 4 categories at different 
rank values are summarized in Fig. 10. As indicated in Fig. 10, rank value changed in inverse proportion to 
topics extension range, and the lower the rank value the more significant this relationship was. Latent 
differences in the order of returned query results. For instance, assume that 5 results of query x were found 
by both IR systems A and B, and both systems had 2 correct results: 1
st
 and 2
nd
 results for System A, and 4
th
 
and 5
th
 results for System B. IR system A, with correct results being the first and the second, obviously was 
more accurate than system B. When measured by precision rate, however, both systems stood at 40% and 
couldn’t be differentiated. Consequently, in Experiment 3, TREC’s FARR (First Answer Reciprocal Rank) 
model was also used as a criterion (Moldovan et al., 1999) along with precision rate to reflect the differences 
in the order of correct answers returned by an IR system. The FARR Model performed evaluation according 
to the order of a correct result from the IR system: correct answers at the first result are given the highest 
score, correct answers at the second result the second highest score, and so on. In this study, the final query 
results and the second-last rounds of results in the two different IR systems were selected for a weighted 
computation, with 1 point for correct answers at the first result, 0.9 point for correct answers at the second 
result, and so on. These scores were then aggregated into order-weighted accuracy rates for the IR systems 
(Fig. 22). As indicated in figure 24, the semantic-enable IR system that performs matching based on 
semantic features demonstrated a superior efficacy, with a 14.83% higher precision rate and FARR of 
11.11%. 
5. Conclusion  
In this study, a semantic-enable information retrieval mechanism that features information retrieval 
based on semantics consisting of elements like subject, predicate, and object, has been developed to 
effectively offset existing defects and constraints of the traditional keyword-based search, and, consequently, 
to enable the user to obtain required information with semantics-based query. In addition to semantic-based 
information retrieval, the proposed system has two significant novelties: a semantic extension model which 
employs latent semantic analysis to generate more semantics for matching, thereby solving the problem of 
insufficient information for query; and a semantic clustering model which identifies the corresponding 
document category for the query and then performs content matching in that category, thereby improving 
matching accuracy. Experiments in this study also demonstrated that the proposed approach can efficiently 
and precisely perform semantic-enable information retrieval. Semantic-enable IR system can be used in 
knowledge management, document management, search engine and other applications that require searching 
amidst large quantities of information to construct a semantic-based environment for information 
communications, thereby achieving the purpose of reusing and sharing information. 
Reference 
Abdelali, A., Cowie, J., & Soliman, H. S. (2007). Improving query precision using semantic expansion. 
Information Processing & Management, 43(3), 705-716. 
Bergholtz, M., & Johannesson, P. (2001). Classifying the semantics of relationships in conceptual modeling 
by categorization of roles. Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop on Applications of Natural 
Language to Information Systems (pp. 199–203). GI. 
Berry, M. W., Dumais, S. T., & O’Brien, G. W. (1995). Using linear algebra for intelligent information 
retrieval. SIAM REVIEW, 37, 573--595. 
Berry, M. W. (1992). Large scale sparse singular value computations. International Journal of 
Supercomputer Applications, 6, 13-49. 
Bezerra, B. L. D., & de Carvalho, F. de A. T. (2004). A symbolic approach for content-based information 
ed.). Brooks / Cole. 
Storey, V. C. (2005). Comparing relationships in conceptual modeling: mapping to semantic classifications. 
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 17(11), 1478- 1489. 
Storey, V. C. (1993). Understanding semantic relationships. The International Journal on Very Large Data 
Bases, 2(4), 455-488. 
Tao, F., Millard, D., Woukeu, A., & Davis, H. (2005). Managing the semantic aspects of learning using the 
knowledge life cycle. Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Advanced Learning 
Technologies, ICALT  ’05 (pp. 575–579). IEEE Computer Society. 
Vechtomova, O., Karamuftuoglu, M., & Robertson, S. E. (2006). On document relevance and lexical 
cohesion between query terms. Information Processing & Management, 42(5), 1230-1247. 
Yang, C. C., Yen, J., & Chen, H. (2000). Intelligent internet searching agent based on hybrid simulated 
annealing. Decision Support Systems, 28(3), 269-277. 
Yeh, J.-Y., Ke, H.-R., Yang, W.-P., & Meng, I.-H. (2005). Text summarization using a trainable summarizer 
and latent semantic analysis. Information Processing & Management, 41(1), 75-95. 
Zantout, H., & Marir, F. (1999). Document management systems from current capabilities towards 
intelligent information retrieval: an overview. International Journal of Information Management, 
19(6), 471-484. 
  
Semantic 
base
Query
Semantic Pattern
Semantic Feature
Content Semantic 
Extension
Semantic 
Searching
Extended Query
Semantics 
Content 
Semantic Pattern
Semantic
Pattern Merging
Query
 Semantic Determination 
& Extraction
Content 
Preprocessing
Content
Summarization
Semantic
Identification
Dimensionality 
Reduction
Semantic 
Representation
Semantic
Pattern
Construction
Singular Value 
Decomposition
Semantic 
Matrix 
Construction
Latent Semantic 
Selection 
Semantic Pattern 
Clustering & MatchingExtended Query 
Semantic Pattern
Content
 Similar
Content Cluster
Content 
Matching
Semantic 
Pattern 
Preprocessing
SVM Function
Pattern 
Clustering
Content Cluster
Topic Map
Content 
Repository
Optimal 
Hyper-plane 
Separation
Support Vector 
Generation
 
Fig. 3 Architecture of semantic enable information retrieval mechanism 
 
 
Fig. 4 Topic and verb association 
Topic Topics 
Association
Semantic Feature
Information Retrieval
Enable
Association type
Topic
 
Fig. 5 Semantic space 
C1
C2
C3
SP
Query Semantic 
Pattern
Pattern Clustering
Similarity
Ranking
1
3
2
10
SP
SP
SP
SP
...
...
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
SP
Content 
Matching
 
Fig. 9 Semantic pattern matching and ranking 
 
 
Fig. 10 (a)semantic extension quantity; (b)semantic extension rate 
 
Appendix B: Tables 
Table 1 Result of content summarization and semantic extraction 
Category - 1
Number of Average Sentences 
per Doc.
Number of Average 
Summarizing Sentences per Doc. 
Document  Summarizing  
Rate
Number of Average Topics
per Doc. 
Number of Average Extracting 
Semantics per Doc. 
336.83                     190.87                      368.5                       249.5
Category - 4Category - 3Category - 2
 13.46                         9.14                        22.53                       12.5
3.99%                       4.79%                     6.11%                      5.01%
 34.16                         28.06                       38.5                        32.63
 22.45                          14.2                        29.1                        18.1
 
Table. 2 Variations in query topics from different rank value 
original 
topics  Extended
 topics
Extension
 rate
Rank = 50
 Extended
 topics
Extension
 rate
Rank = 30
 Extended
 topics
Extension
 rate
Rank = 40
 Extended
 topics
Extension
 rate
Rank = 20
 Extended
 topics
Extension
 rate
Rank = Min
 Extended
 topics
Extension
 rate
Rank = Mean
Query 1
Query 2
Query 3
Query 4
Query 5
Query 6
9
6
5
4
3
3
0.00
0.33
0.40
0.00
6.00
2.33
0
16
3
2
22
21
0.00
2.67
0.60
0.50
7.33
7.00
3
27
9
8
32
29
8
61
34
11
37
58
0.33
4.50
1.80
2.00
10.67
9.67
0.89
10.17
6.80
2.75
12.33
19.33
48
67
73
30
60
50
5.33
11.17
14.60
7.50
20.00
16.67
3
29
9
7
32
29
0.33
4.83
1.80
1.75
10.67
9.67
0
2
2
0
18
7
 
Table 3 Classification result for 4 categories (penalty value c = 1) 
Category - 1
   49                              1                               0                             0
Category - 4Category - 3Category - 2
Category - 1
Category - 2
Category - 3
Category - 4
Result of SVM Classifier
   1                              44                              5                             1
   0                               1                              42                            1
   0                               4                               3                            48
 
Table. 4 Effects of adjusting penalty value (C) on SVM classifier 
C = 1.0
  98.01%           100.0%            100.0%              100.0%           100.0%Category - 1
Category - 2
Category - 3
Category - 4
Result of SVM Classifier
C = 1.5 C = 2.0 C = 2.5 C = 3.0
Precision 
rate of  
SVM 
Classifier
Averages
  86.38%           94.25%            98.76%              100.0%           100.0%
  80.96%           91.92%            99.81%              100.0%           100.0%
  90.29%           96.12%            99.64%              100.0%           100.0%
  95.84%           98.32%            100.0%              100.0%           100.0%
 
  
國科會專題計畫 99-2221-E-006-178 
2010/08/01~2011/10/31 
語意驅動之內容管理系統與技術研發(II) 
出席國際會議報告 
E-Learn2011 - World Conference on E-Learning in Corporate, Government, 
Healthcare & Higher Education 
October 2011, Honolulu, Hawaii 
 
陳 裕 民 
國立成功大學 
製造資訊與系統研究所 特聘教授 
 
 
壹、 About e-LEARN 2011 
E-Learn 2011 - World Conference on E-Learning in Corporate, Government, 
Healthcare, & Higher Education was an international conference organized by the 
Association for the Advancement of Computing in Education (AACE) and 
co-sponsored by the International Journal on E-Learning. 
E-Learn provided a forum for Government, Healthcare, Education, and Business 
professionals to discuss the latest research, development, applications, issues, and 
strategies, to explore new technologies, and to identify solutions for today’s 
challenges related to online learning.  
A variety of opportunities and venues were designed to enable participants to actively 
learn from and collaborate with a multinational, cross-industry expert faculty and 
peers on the research, development, diverse learning experiences, implementation and 
technology needed to improve e-learning. 
The E-Learn2011 attracted more than one thousand participants from over 70 countries, 
and the conference committees were formed with over two hundred and sixty 
committees members who are mainly research center heads, faculty deans, department 
heads, professors, and research scientists from over 20 countries. 
 
2. Major Topics relating to or technologically supporting E-Learning:  
o Content Development  
o Evaluation  
o Implementation Examples and Issues  
o Instructional Design  
o Policy Issues  
o Research  
o Social and Cultural Issues  
o Standards and Interoperability  
o Tools and Systems  
o Other  
3. Specific Topics Examples:  
o Accessibility  
o Asynchronous Learning  
o Authoring Tools  
o Building E-Learning Architectures  
o Collaborative Learning  
o Community Building  
o Courseware Development  
o Customer Training  
o Developing an Organizational e-Learning Strategy  
o Developing, Integrating, and Delivering E-Learning Solutions  
o Digital Libraries for E-Learning  
o Distance Learning  
o Electronic Publishing Tools for E-Learning  
o Evaluation/Performance Measurement & Assessment  
o Good Practice Concepts & Examples  
o Human-Computer Interaction  
o Industry-University Partnering  
o Infrastructure of E-Learning Environments  
o Innovative Curriculum in E-Learning  
o Instructional Design for E-Learning  
o Intelligent E-Learning Technology  
o Interactive E-Learning Systems  
o Knowledge Management in E-Learning  
o Learning & Content Management Systems  
o Management of Learning Resources  
o Marketing/Promoting Learning Activities  
This presentation considered what we have learned about learning communities in 
formal and informal online environments and speculates about what is at the heart of 
how learners make use of social interaction for the purpose of learning. 
Much of what we understand about the notion of online learning communities and 
how they develop, grow, and die away is based on examinations of formal online 
learning environments— primarily post-secondary courses managed by institutions of 
higher learning. As effective as formal environments may be, paying exclusive 
attention to them limits our understanding of the nature of social learning. Informal 
learning environments, by contrast, can tell us a great deal about how people learn 
together in natural settings, and can teach us a great deal about what happens when 
the authority for learning is entrusted to learners.  
(4) Visualizing the Future: How Augmented Reality can empower faculty, 
inspire students and bring ideas to life in the classroom  
Craig Kapp - New York University, USA 
This session explored various educational uses of augmented reality including 
scientific simulations, digital storytelling, assistive technology and data visualization 
and show how faculty members can use these tools to engage and inspire students. 
Imagine being able to rotate around the solar system, navigate through a data set in 
3D, and interact with a simulated ecosystem - all from the palm of your hand. With 
Augmented Reality, it's possible! Augmented Reality (AR) is a technique through 
which 3D virtual objects can be overlaid onto the "real world" in real-time, using 
nothing more than a home computer or a mobile device.  
 
肆、 Tutorials  
 I attended two of the four tutorials provided in this conference. 
(1) Free Resources for Educator Excellence (FREE) for Developing, Integrating, 
and Delivering E-Learning Solutions 
Instructors: 
Robert Moody, Fort Hays State University, USA 
educational design research conducted by doctoral students as well as that conducted 
by well-known scholars. The presentation aspects of the tutorial were kept to less than 
50% to enable as much focus on the planning exercise and feedback to the 
participants.  
 
伍、 Parallel Paper Presentation  
 
A total of 463 full papers were submitted, of which 114 were accepted for presentation. 
A further 145 brief papers were submitted and 31 were accepted. Each paper was 
peer-reviewed by at least two members of the Program Committee.  
 
My paper entitled “On Development of Expertise-Based Learning Guidance for 
Cooperative e-Learning” was presented at Fri, Jul. 2 10:30 AM-11:00 AM in the session 
of Design of Distance Learning Systems. Approximately 14 people attended my 
presentation and six technical questions were answered. The abstract of this paper is as 
follow: 
 
Cooperative learning is widely used in the education field. However, studies 
show that cognitive and social factors diminish the value of cooperative 
learning. In this paper, we proposed an Expertise-Based Learning Guidance 
in Cooperative e-Learning (CeL) platform, with an Expertise-based 
Scaffolding Knowledge Model (ESKM) and a Learning Guidance 
Mechanism (LGM) is used to enhance cognitive processes during 
cooperative learning, as well as improve the focus on learning goals, and to 
enhance cognitive skills and comprehension ability. 
 
This paper presented an approach to the development of learning maps based 
on users’ intention in using problem-oriented e-Learning. In this approach, 
users’ intention is first extracted and transformed into knowledge requirements, 
which is then used to develop a learning map. By using ontology technology, 
users’ intention model and a domain knowledge map are developed to facilitate 
knowledge representation and knowledge searching. The results of this 
research may help solve the problem of learning disorientation and thus fulfill 
the goals of e-Learning and realize its values. The proposed approach is 
implemented in a problem-oriented e-learning platform with an emphasis on 
mathematics learning problem solving for students with mild disabilities. 
 
 
陸、 Presentation I Attended 
Since part of my current research focuses on in-service and pre-service teachers’ 
professional development, I paid more attentions on theory and technology of 
professional distance learning and methodologies for knowledge content development.  
(1) Knowledge Maps for e-Learning. By Lee, J.H. & Segev, A. 
In this study, an attempt was made to automatically build a domain knowledge map 
for e-learning using text mining techniques. From a set of documents about a specific 
topic, keywords are extracted using the TF/IDF algorithm. A domain knowledge map 
(K-map) was based on ranking pairs of keywords according to the number of 
appearances in a sentence and the number of words in a sentence. K-map does not 
label links; instead K-map shows all sentences containing the two keywords placed at 
both ends of the relation chosen. Therefore, K-maps showed promise as a tool for 
e-learning environments. 
(2) Collaborative Problem Solving in e-Learning: Research Strands and 
Emerging Solutions. By Antonenklo, P., Hudson, G., Townsend, R. & Pritchard, 
J. 
This paper reviewed the current literature on scaffolding collaborative problem 
solving in e-learning. The authors described the incongruence between real-world, 
workplace problem solving and educational problem solving that is typically practiced 
in formal learning contexts. Emerging e-solutions for supporting collaborative 
problem solving were presented followed by a discussion of two research trends that 
have informed design of collaborative problem solving tools: Computer-Supported 
Collaborative Learning (e.g., Stahl, Koschmann, & Suthers, 2006) and Scaffolded 
Knowledge Integration (e.g., Linn & Hsi, 2000). This paper concluded that while a lot 
of work has been done by educational researchers to design, test, and implement 
problem-solving support solutions in the classroom, most of this work focused on 
individual problem solving. Development of collaborative problem-solving systems 
for e-learning that were grounded in both empirical evidence and current 
information-harvesting practices of our students is still in its infancy. 
(3) Concept Maps as Metacognitive Instructional Tools for English Language 
Learners. By Barouch Gilbert, R., Schroeder, N. & Adesope, O. 
(6) Extended Enterprise Learning: Building Your Business with External 
Training. By Gilbert, B.  
This paper discussed customer training and how monetization is a substantial 
opportunity for businesses to grow revenue in the training space. • Web conferencing 
as a customer training tool •The differences between internal and external training 
operations  •What is needed to provide effective external training programs •The 
benefits of monetizing external training 
(7) Facilitating Knowledge Construction in Distance Learning Environment. By 
Barley, N. & Mikhailova, I. 
This presentation shared best practices and challenges of a teacher education course 
that utilizes web 2.0 technologies embedded in many course management systems to 
allow for scaffolded process of knowledge construction. The presenter outlined the 
role of knowledge creation in ensuring positive learning outcomes in DL environment 
and compare key characteristics of several social computing tools used in the course 
(blogs, wikis, and discussion forums). Finally, the guidelines for utilizing these 
technologies in knowledge-construction process will be provided. 
(8) Assessment of Online Discussion: Collecting Discussion Content and 
Generating Analysis Data for Assessment and Feedback. By Yang, Y., Heinrich, 
E. & Kemp, E. 
This study provided a new approach to addressing the assessment of online 
discussions, by automating the collection of discussion data and by generating input 
into the assignment module of the Learning Management Systems (LMS). This new 
approach was intended to reduce the time and effort that teachers spend on collecting 
relevant data for assessing online discussion contributions. It also generated artifacts, 
composed of discussion contributions, participation and interaction data, that are 
returned to students and underpin the marking feedback. 
(9) Providing Distance-Learning Support Through Collaborative Relationships. 
By Smith, D. 
The purpose of this paper was to determine the impact of distance-learning support 
structures on the learning experience of 30 teacher-leaders enrolled in a master’s 
degree program that emphasized National Board Certification preparation and 
leadership development. A mixed-methods research designed was implemented by 
using pre-existing data, the Leadership Practices Inventory (LPI), and a survey 
(12) Knowledge Sharing Using Virtual Communities of Practice. By Tsela, D., 
Kekwaletswe, R., Matsebula, F. & Howe, E. 
This paper argued that virtual communities of practice (VCoP) can facilitate 
interaction and knowledge sharing amongst mobile learners as they traverse varied 
learning contexts. Verbal and textual interaction among peers is fundamental for the 
provision of personalized learning. To this point, learners’ social network ought to 
move with the learners, and a VCoP is seen to have this realized. This paper 
unraveled the factors that facilitate and influence VCoPs for knowledge sharing, 
concluding that, awareness of knowledgeable peers (social presence) is a key 
characteristic for VCoPs. Using Activity Theory as a lens, and informed empirical 
evidence gathered through a Contextual Inquiry method, this paper investigated the 
factors needed to be in place for mobile learners in a South African university to be 
afforded knowledge sharing through VCoPs. 
(13) Personalized Learning Environments: Innovation in Education and 
Training. By Moallem, M. 
This paper described the concept of Personalized Learning Environment (PLE) as an 
approach that not only provides personal spaces, which is controlled by the learner, 
but also requires a social context by offering means to connect with other formal and 
informal learning spaces for knowledge sharing and collaborative learning. It 
provided a conceptual model explaining how such a learning approach can be 
incorporated in schools, higher education and training environments. The paper also 
explored the resources, tools, and delivery methods required within each learning 
spaces to utilize PLEs. 
(14) A Case Study Of An Adaptive & Personalized Mobile e-Learning. By 
Kampana, S., Tsolis, D. & Tsakalidis, A. 
This paper maked a review of current operating systems for mobiles and describe the 
implementation of the OWLearn system through a case study for a C++ course. This 
paper described how our system can be adaptive and personalized, so as the e-learning 
process to match students’ and teachers’ needs and objectives as closely as possible, 
and adapt during course progression. Finally, it was proposed a mobile e-learning 
system offers profiling and personalization services for the teacher and student while 
at the same time adapts the educational content and tools in the basis of the acquired 
user’s profile. 
• How are ICTs effecting and improving education and training? What networks 
and models are emerging?  
• How are universities, schools, corporations and other educational/training 
organizations making use of ICT?  
• What electronic tools are there to facilitate e-learning, distance education and 
co-operative training?  
The entire conference focused more on application of information technology on 
education and paid less attention to education and learning theories. We strongly believe that 
distance learning, ubiquitous learning will be the trend in the area of e-Learning. Therefore, 
the above-mentioned issues are required to be resolved from academic, industry and 
government perspectives.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳裕民 計畫編號：99-2221-E-006-178- 
計畫名稱：語意驅動之內容管理系統與技術研發(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 4 4 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 1 篇研討會論文獲
選為大會最佳論
文 (Best paper 
award) 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
