 2
產物。本新鋼種已被世界著名鋼鐵物理冶金學
者稱為超級變韌鐵(Superbainite)，國際現況已
採本鋼種做為防彈鋼板。國內之中鋼公司及金
屬中心均對本新鋼種之研發與應用充滿興
趣。期望本研究計畫在兩年期間可以獲得合金
設計、組織強度、組織穩定性的基礎資料，供
學界與業界參考。 
 
三、研究方法 
第二年工作 
本研究所使用的鋼材為高碳-高矽合金
鋼，其成分如表一所示。將熔煉完之 160mm
鑄錠於 1150℃持溫 45 分鐘後熱軋至 25mm 並
空冷之，隨後的熱處理過程如圖 1 所示，將材
料於 1000℃沃斯田鐵化 1 小時，隨即將試片冷
卻至 200℃進行兩星期的恆溫變韌鐵相變態處
理。將熱處理後之鋼材車製成 6mm 長 3mm 直
徑的試棒，切取金相試片，並作 Vickers 微硬
度測定。電鏡薄膜製作：試片以高速精密切割
並以砂紙研磨成厚度 0.05mm 薄片。以 5%過
氯酸+15%甘油+80%酒精之電解拋光溶液，在
-5~-10℃、45V 及 18mA 之條件下製作薄膜試
片。分析金相與電鏡顯微組織，評估回火前後
變韌鐵的次晶粒及沃斯田鐵相的外型大小及
分佈狀況，以及碳化物析出之情況，並探討其
間之晶體方位關係。 
 
四、結果與討論 
圖 2 為低溫變韌鐵之金像組織圖，可明顯
的看到變韌鐵的結構，圖中顏色較深處為變韌
鐵較密集處，而較白色的部分則為變韌鐵量較
少處，其中夾雜些許殘留沃斯田鐵。根據圖 5
材料微硬度值分析顯示黑色區域具有較高的
硬度值，其低溫變韌鐵硬度值高達 580HV，遠
超過一般麻田散鐵的硬度。而變韌鐵含量較少
的部分其硬度值仍可達接近 550HV，亦比一般
合金鋼變韌鐵之硬度值來的高。 
圖 3 與圖 4 分別為為低溫變韌鐵經 400℃
和 600℃回火(a)2hr，(b)4hr，(c)12hr，(d)24hr，
(e)48hr 後之顯微組織圖。由圖 3 經 400℃回火
的顯微組織圖可看出其與原材的顯微結構相
似，同樣有變韌鐵較密集處與顏色較白的區
域，另外經過不同的回火時間其顯微組織並未
有太大的改變，也沒有發生變韌鐵粗化的情
形。經由硬度試驗（圖 5）所得的結果與原材
相似，仍具有相當高的硬度值。然而，圖 4 經
600℃回火的顯微結構與原材相較則有明顯的
差異，其中原材組織中黑白相間的部分已不存
在，同時隨著回火時間的增加，變韌鐵粗化的
情形也越加顯著，這也使得在 600℃回火時間
越久，所得之硬度值也越低，如圖 5 所示。 
圖6與圖7為低溫變韌鐵原材之TEM明視
野及暗視野顯微組織，由圖中可看出低溫變韌
鐵組織為20-40nm厚度的變韌鐵奈米次平板所
組成，而變韌鐵奈米次平板為薄膜狀(5-10nm
厚)的沃斯田鐵所隔開。含有過飽和碳的沃斯
田鐵在變韌鐵化的過程中被保留至室溫，同時
在顯微組織中並未發現麻田散鐵的結構。沃斯
田鐵除了以薄膜形式存在於變韌鐵奈米次平
板間，亦會以較大的塊狀存在於束狀(shaves)
變韌鐵之間。 
圖8顯示原材於變韌鐵間之沃斯田鐵薄膜
受到鄰近變韌鐵相變態應變之影響而形成雙
晶組織(deformation twin)，此代表低溫變韌鐵
具有極大的相變態應變。 
圖 9 低溫變韌鐵經(a)400℃和(b)600℃回火
12hr後之TEM顯微組織，在400℃回火的TEM
顯微組織中可看到於變韌鐵和沃斯田鐵的邊
界有細小的碳化物析出，此細小的碳化可提高
材料的強度，同時也阻止變韌鐵的粗化，因此
可應証材料在較低溫回火由於變韌鐵未粗化
使得材料仍具有高的強度。而在 600℃回火卻
可明顯的看出碳化物粗大化的現象，粗大的碳
化物無法阻止變韌鐵的粗化，因此在圖 9(b)中
變韌鐵的結構已非原材之奈米次平板狀結
構，其中包含了大量的粗大碳化物，因此造成
了材料在較高溫度回火時強度降低的現象。 
 
 4
 
表一、高碳高矽合金鋼成分 
Fe C S N Si Mn P Cr Mo B V 
Bal. 0.79 0.005 0.004 2.16 2.02 0.014 1.36 0.29 0.0005 0.11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 1 本實驗合金材料之熱處理圖                圖 2 低溫變韌鐵之顯微組織圖 
 
 
   
  
圖 3 低溫變韌鐵經 400℃回火(a)2hr，(b)4hr，(c)12hr，(d)24hr，(e)48hr 後之顯微組織圖 
 
 
 
 
a b c
d e 
 6
 
圖 6 低溫變韌鐵之 TEM 顯微組織 
 
 1
The 5th International Conference on Physical and Numerical Simulation of Materials Processing  
國際會議心得報告 
本國際會議由大陸機械工程學會主辦，由美國 TMS 協辦。日期:2007 年 10 月 23
日至 27 日，地點：中國鄭州。大會共分 8 組會議同時進行，約有論文五佰餘篇以
口頭及海報發表。本人獲邀主持一組會議，並發表兩篇口頭論文: 1. Precipitation 
hardening of nanometer-sized carbides in high-strength low-alloy steels (invited 
speech), 2. Cross-sectional observation of the intermetallic phase in a galvannealed 
steel. 這兩篇口頭論文已改為 Full papers，將分別刊登於 Materials Science and 
Engineering A。玆將兩篇論文列於后： 
 
Paper ID: M119 
Precipitation hardening of nanometer-sized carbides in high-strength low-alloy 
steels 
C. Y. Chen1, H. W. Yen1, F. H. Kao1, W.C. Li1, C. Y. Huang2, J. R. Yang1* and S. H. Wang3 
1Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
Taiwan 
2Steel and Aluminum Research and Development Department, China Steel Co. 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
3Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan Ocean University, Keelung, 
Taiwan 
 3
Abstract 
The effects of Ti, Ti-Mo, and Ti-Nb micro-alloy additions on the precipitation 
strengthening in three experimental high-strength low-alloy steels have been 
investigated. The objective of this work was to study the carbide precipitation under the 
conditions of continuous cooling and interrupted cooling. It was found that titanium 
molybdenum complex carbide, (Ti, Mo)C, can strongly maintain nanometer-scaled sizes 
and has the largest contribution to the hardness as compared to titanium carbide, TiC, 
and titanium niobium complex carbide, (Ti, Nb)C. The result emphasizes that (Ti, Mo)C 
particles possess an excellent behavior of thermal stability.  
Keywords: interface precipitation, complex carbide, continuous cooling, interrupted 
cooling, nano-sized carbide.  
 
1.  Introduction 
Conventional HSLA steels are strengthened by a combination of grain refinement, 
solid-solution strengthening and precipitation hardening. HSLA steels usually possessed 
yield strengths of about 400 – 500 MPa, and the contribution of precipitation hardening 
to these values was considered to be minor, since many of the alloying elements were 
added to HSLA steels in the past basically for the strengthening of grain refinement. 
However, in recent work conducted at JFE Steel [1], yield strengths of up to 780 MPa 
 5
and Ti-Mo additions, two other steels had the same C-Mn-Ti base composition alloyed 
with 0.04 wt% Nb and 0.2 wt% Mo, respectively. The chemical compositions of the 
steels are listed in Table 1. Reference steel is designated as Steel Ti, while 0.04 wt% Nb 
and 0.2 wt% Mo containing steels as Steel Ti-Nb and Steel Ti-Mo, respectively. All the 
steels were prepared by vacuum melting, then cast into 100 kg ingots with a thickness 
of 210 mm. The ingots were homogenized at 1200℃ for 2 h and then hot rolled in 
several passes by 20% reduction rate per pass to plates 20 mm thick. In the present work, 
all the heat treatments were carried out on a Dilatromic III RDP deformation 
dilatometer of Theta Industries, Inc. The software package (provided by Theta 
Industries, Inc.) can give a flexible and complete environment to execute the continuous 
cooling experiments. The length, time and temperature information can be recorded in 
micro-second intervals, and the level of vacuum can reach 10-5 torr to protect specimens 
from oxidation. 
Before the preparation of dilatometer specimens, the pieces of steel were 
homogenized at 1250℃ for 2 days while sealed in a quartz tube containing argon and 
subsequently quenched in water. All dilatometer specimens were prepared from the 
quarter thickness position below the plate surface along rolling direction and machined 
to 3 mm diameter cylindrical rods of 6 mm length. The work was to study the effects of 
Ti, Ti-Nb and Ti-Mo additions on the precipitation of carbide during cooling. Two 
 7
3. Experimental results and discussion 
For the three steels studied, the microstructures of the corresponding specimens 
treated in Process A have been investigated. As the cooling rate is higher than 5℃/s, a 
high volume fraction of martensite and bainite can be obtained. As the cooling rate 
decreases to 0.5℃/s, the bainite and martensite do not exist and the microstructure is 
composed chiefly of allotriomorphic ferrite with a small amount of pearlite. The main 
objective of present study focuses on the precipitation of carbide in the ferrite matrix. 
The precipitated carbides can be observed in white-contrast ferrite matrix by TEM as 
shown in Fig. 2. A series of bright-field TEM micrographs showing the microstructural 
features of the ferrite phase in the dilatometer specimens are presented in Figs 2(a) – (c). 
Such images show that, in each case, the ferrite matrix contains very fine, banded 
dispersions of carbides, typical of interphase precipitation. The data of Vickers hardness 
of the specimens treated at the cooling rate of 0.5℃/s in Process A have been measured. 
The values are listed in order: Steel Ti-Mo (Hv 210), Steel Ti-Nb (Hv 202) and Steel Ti 
(Hv 184). The results indicate that synthetic effect of Ti-Mo addition can promote the 
precipitation hardening of carbides. This significant effect is attributed to the thermal 
stability of (Ti, Mo)C carbides during the the continuous cooling at the slowing cooling 
rate. 
The degree of supersaturation in ferrite is of deciding importance as it influences 
 9
Steel Ti-Mo to 650℃ leads to a high degree of supersaturation in ferrite matrix. 
Thereby, the supersatured solid-solution ferrite can produce plenty of nanometer scaled 
carbides afterwards at the relatively slow cooling rates. 
The precipitation of alloy carbides in microalloyed steels may occur at different 
stages during the manufacture and fabrication. In this work, precipitation from 
supersaturated ferrite in Steel Ti-Mo has been found to cause significant hardening. 
From the TEM observation of the specimen of Steel Ti-Mo with Hv 326, it is suggested 
that the effective size range for precipitation hardening is approximately 5 – 10 nm, as 
shown in Fig. 6. The selected area diffraction patterns have been analyzed in Fig. 6(d). 
The result indicates that (Ti, Mo) C carbides forming in the supersaturated ferritic solid 
solution adopt the Baker-Nutting (B-N) orientation relationship [12] with respect to the 
ferrite matrix, i.e. { } }{ ferritecarbide 100//001 and ferritecarbide ><>< 010//110 . 
High-resolution lattice image of the nanometer sized carbide has been investigated 
using FEG-TEM equipped with nanometer probe EDX, as presented in Fig. 7. As 
expected, the precipitate is coherent, or at least semi-coherent, with the matrix. The 
measured composition of this nanometer sized carbide is in the ratio (atom %) 72.6 : 
13.2 : 14.2 for Fe, Ti and Mo, respectively.  
 
 
 11
[7]  H. Morikawa and T. Sato: Proc. 5th Int. Conf. on High Voltage Electron 
Microscopy, Kyoto, 1977, p. 531. 
[8]   A. J. Deardo, Int. Mater. Rev., 48(2003) 371. 
[9]   H. J. Jun, K. B. Kang, C. G. Park, Scripta Mater., 49(2003)1081. 
[10]  K. Hirano and Y. Ipposhi, J. Jpn. Inst. Metals, 32(1968)821. 
[11]  K. Nohara and K. Hirano, "Self-Diffusion in the Fe-Mo-System", Nippon 
Kinzoku Gakkai-shi (J. Jpn. Inst. Met.), 40 (1976)1053. 
[12]  B. G. Baker and J. Nutting, “Precipitation Processes in Steels”, Special Report 64 
(London: Iron and Steel Institute). 1959, 1.  
 13
0.1℃/s to room temperature: (a) bright field, (b) dark field, (c) bright field and 
(d) selected area diffraction patterns. 
Fig.7  High resolution lattice image of a nanometer-sized carbide (a) with nano-scaled 
EDX analysis of the corresponding nanometer-sized carbide (b) and ferrite 
matrix (c) in the specimen of Steel Ti-Mo after interrupted cooling at 650℃and 
then cooled at cooling rates of 0.1℃/s to room temperature. 
 15
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.2 
 17
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 
 
 
 
 19
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 
 
 
 21
3Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan Ocean University, Keelung, 
Taiwan 
 
 
 
 
 
*Corresponding author 
Mail address 
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Taiwan University 
1, Roosevelt Road, Section 4, Taipei 106, Taiwan 
Tel: 886-2-2362-2756       
Fax: 886-2-2363-4562       
E-mail: jryang@ntu.edu.tw 
 23
and precisely located slabs, allowing preparation of cross-sectional transmission 
electron microscopy specimens of Zn-coated steels [3]. 
The GA coatings will become microalloying with Fe present in the steel substrate 
due to diffusion into the coating layer, thus forming different types of intermetallic 
compounds [4,6,7]. Altogether, there are five intermetallic compounds, as can be 
inferred from the phase diagram (Fig.1) [5]. The detailed crystal structure, lattice 
parameters and the possible chemical formula of these five intermetallic compounds [8] 
are summarize in Table 1.The objective of the present study is to investigate the 
microstructure characteristics of galvannealed dual-phase steel.   
 
2. Experimental procedure 
A 1.8-mm thick GA steel sheet was supplied by the China Steel Corporation. 
Galvanizing was performed in a hot-dip continuous galvanizing line. The chemical 
composition and the manufacturing process for the galvannealed dual phase steel are not 
shown here due to concerns about intellectual property rights. 
The microstructure of the Fe-Zn coating was studied by using optical microscopy, 
scanning electron microscopy (SEM, XL-30), and transmission electron microscopy 
(TEM, JEOL JSM2000). Specimens for optical metallography were etched in a solution 
of 5% nitric acid. transmission electron microscopy specimens of dual-phase steel were 
thinned to 0.8 mm by abrasion on silicon carbide paper and then electropolished in a 
twin jet electropolisher using a solution of 5% perchloric acid, 25% glycerol, and 70% 
ethanol at -25 ℃  and 50V potential. The cross-sectional transmission electron 
microscopy specimens of Fe-Zn coatings were thinned in a focused ion beam. The 
Fe-Zn content of the coating layer was measured by using electron probe microanalysis 
(EPMA, JEOL JXA-8200). 
 25
patterns. Grains 1 and 2 were identified as δ phase, and grains 3, 4 and 5 were 
identified as ζ. In the Fe-Zn phase diagram, it is not surprising to observe the ζphase 
located near the interface, since ζ would be a zinc rich phase. Fig. 5 shows another 
image of the interface between α Fe and the coated layer with corresponding 
diffraction patterns. Grains 1 were identified as αFe, and grains 2 were identified as 
ζ. The diffraction patterns presented in Fig. 5-(d) are obtained from the interface 
between these two grains. From the present TEM investigation, Γ1 and Γ2 phases can 
not be found in the Fe-Zn coated layer, although Γ1 and Γ2 phases might be formed with 
the low zinc content in the coated layer. 
 
5. Conclusions 
From the present study, some conclusions can be highlighted here: 
甲、 Martensite is embedded in the soft ferrite matrix in dual phase steel, a 
characteristic that can generate excellent mechanical properties. 
乙、 Band microstructure in the present study was likely obtained by hot rolling. 
丙、 The thickness of the coated Zn layer in the present study is about 6μm, 
which could endow good anti-corrosion properties. It is also found that the 
inter-diffusion layer between iron and zinc is about 2μm, which indicates the 
success of fully microalloying treatment during galvannealling treatment. 
丁、 The existence of ζ and δ phases in the coated layer suggests that the zinc rich 
phases are generated in the galvannealed treatment process. However, Γ1 and Γ2 
phases has not been found in the present study. 
 
 
 27
Table & Figure captions: 
Table 1.  Summarization of crystal structure, lattice parameters and the possible 
chemical formula of Fe-Zn binary phases. 
Fig. 1  The Fe-Zn phase diagram. 
Fig. 2  Optical micrograph of dual phase steel substrate. 
Fig. 3  (a) SEM and (b) corresponding chemical composition profile of cross section of 
dual phase steel. 
Fig. 4  Cross-sectional TEM images of the Zinc coated layer of GA steel: (a) the 
bright-field images showing the characterization of Fe-Zn intermetallic 
compounds in the coated layer; (b) ~ (e) are the corresponding diffraction 
pattern taken from the area marked with number from 1 to 5. 
Fig.5   Cross-sectional TEM images of the Zinc coated layer of GA steel: (a) the 
bright-field images showing the characterization of Fe-Zn intermetallic 
compounds in the coated layer; (b) ~ (d) are the corresponding diffraction 
pattern taken from the area marked with number from 1 to 3. 
 29
 
 
Fig 1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2  
 
 
 31
 
  
   
Fig 4. 
