目錄
中文摘要…………………………………………………………………….1
ABSTRACT…………………………………………………………………1
1.INTRODUCTION…………………………………………………………1
2. PROCESS SIMULATION………………………………………………..2
3. DEVICE SIMULATION………………………………………………….5
4. STATISTICAL MODELING……………………………………………...9
5. CONLUSIIONS…………………………………………………………..13
REFERENCE………………………………………………………………..13
計畫成果自評……………………………………………………………….14
i
LCD. Therefore, system on panel (SOP) can be realized by using TFTs with LTPS. In addition,
LTPS TFTs are suitable for driving organic light emission diode (OLED) because they are reliable
under high current stress. However, the uniformity of LTPS TFTs needs to be improved.
Conventional LTPS technology adapts excimer laser annealing (ELA) to recrystallize amorphous
silicon [2]. To obtain large grains, recrystallization must proceed under super lateral growth
(SLG). Unfortunately, SLG can be obtained only in narrow process conditions. This degrades
TFT uniformity. Continuous wave (CW) laser recrystallization has been developed to control the
growth direction. CW laser recrystallization can reduce the number of grain boundaries in the
channel region of TFTs. However, the performance of TFT is dominated by the distribution of
few grain boundaries. It is essential to establish the theory and models related to CW laser
technology.
Wood and Giles [3] investigated heat transfer and laser energy adsorption during pulse laser
annealing. In 1991, Kuriyama et al. [4] studied excimer laser annealing and TFTs with LTPS.
The recrystallization mechanism with excimer laser was reported by Im et al. [5] and SLG theory
was developed [6]. In 2000, simulation of heat transfer in conjunction with recrystallization was
developed for excimer laser crystallization [7]. There is no simulation tool developed for CW
laser recrystallization. Device simulation for polycrystalline silicon TFTs has been developed for
qualitative analysis [8-11]. The critical issue is three-dimensional distribution of grain
boundaries in TFT. Because the distribution is complex, a large number of mesh points are
needed for device simulation. This limits the development of TFT device simulation. However,
CW laser recrystallization reduces the number of grain boundaries are able to control the
orientation. It is a good opportunity to develop TFT device simulation based on CW laser
technology. In the development of TFT compact models for circuit simulation, conventional
modeling is based on TFT with small grains [12-15] formed by solid phase crystallization.
Although there are models considering grain boundaries [16,17], modeling for laser annealing
technology with very few grain boundaries is still not ready. With the development of new
recrystallization techniques, statistical modeling provides more information on the device
uniformity. As a result, this project works on process and device simulation for TFT fabricated
by CW laser annealing. Statistical modeling is developed for device uniformity.
2 PROCESS SIMULATION
The process of CW laser recrystallization begins from laser irradiation melting amorphous silicon
on substrates. Polycrystalline silicon is then formed with solidification of liquid silicon. The
key parameter of the laser recrystallization process is temperature because temperature controls
the rate of phase transformation. Temperature redistribution among the device in different time
steps must be calculated to simulate the recrystallization process. Therefore, an equation of heat
transfer is solved for process simulation. The heat transfer equation in our simulation is given
by:
  A
y
T
Tk
yx
T
Tk
xt
T
S 















 , (1)
where T is temperature, a function of time and position. The density of material is denoted as
2
whereΔHlatent is the latent heat from Tt to NewTt+1. We then get effective enthalpy Seff by
1eff t t
e
S
NewT T

 . (10)
The effective enthalpy is implemented into Eq. (1) to solve for a new temperature 1' tNew T  .
The process proceeds again until the new temperature 1' tNew T  converges satisfying the
criterion:
1 1
6
1
'
1.0 10
'
t t
t
New T NewT
New T
 



  (11)
Figure 1 shows the simulated temperature distribution during CW laser annealing. It is shown
that the temperature gradient spreads over a long range of distance. This indicates that the
simulation domain must be large enough to simulate the heat dissipation. For numerical
calculation, to reduce computational burden and time, the mesh points must be separated in long
distances. However, the laser beam scans through the simulation region for CW laser annealing.
The scan speed is too small in comparison with the distance between mesh points. This means
that the laser beam must stay in one position for a long period and then move to the next mesh
point. In this case the simulation fails to describe the scanning feature of CW laser annealing.
Such simulation is close to the pulse laser process like excimer laser recrystallization. During
excimer laser recrystallization, the heat transfer depends on the thermal conductivity of the
substrate. The heat transfer can only be modulated by the structure of the substrate or the
substrate heating.
Fig. 1. Schematic of simulation for CW laser annealing and the simulated temperature
distribution
In order to induce SLG, the temperature cannot drop quickly. Otherwise nucleation takes place
energy
time
energy
time
4
into TFT device. Grain boundaries were represented by trap charges which spatially distribute
in dimensions. Poisson’s equation was rewritten as
 2 1D A Td Td Ta Ta
i i
q
p n N N N f N f 
             (12)
where NTa and NTd denote the acceptor and donor trap density, respectively. Acceptor and donor
trap occupancy were presented by fTa and fTd respectively based on the following equation:
1
1 exp
T
F
f
Et E
kT
     
(13)
Gummul’s method was adapted for numerical iteration based on the flow shown in Fig. 3.
Fig. 3. Schematic of the flow of Gummel’s method used for TFT simulation
continuity
converged
Poisson
converged
solution
Initial guess
YES
YES
NO
NO
calculate the trapped charge
Bias+1
6
The simulation result demonstrates the increase of potential due to the implemented grain
boundary. The traps in the grain boundary capture charges and hence the potential is increased.
The energy barrier due to potential causes dramatic decrease of current. This is consistent with
previous research about polycrystalline silicon TFTs. We also simulated the case that the grain
boundary is parallel to the channel. In this case the simulated current is similar to that without
grain boundary. Although there is a potential barrier at the grain boundary parallel to the
channel, the barrier dose not affect carrier flowing from the source to the drain. To demonstrate
the capability of our three-dimensional device simulation platform, we implemented grain
boundaries with different tilt angles to the channel, as shown in Fig. 7. The simulated current is
demonstrated in Fig. 8. Surprisingly, the tilted grain boundaries significantly decrease the TFT
current. Because the trap number per unit length is constant, there are more trapped charges in
the channel with titled grain boundaries. Based on Gauss law, more charges lead to higher
electric field. The potential difference due to electric field is therefore increased with more
trapped charges. The increased potential barrier causes the reduction of current.
Fig. 7. Schematic of TFT simulation with grain boundaries of different tilt angles.
Fig. 8. Schematic of TFT simulation with grain boundaries of different tilt angles.
S D
Case I
S D
Case II
8
The steady nucleation rate is determined by



 
kT
GE
ZNOI nd
n
S *
* exp0 , (14)
where dE is the self-diffusion activation energy , 0 is the self-diffusion coefficient and Z is the
Zeldovich factor.
After nucleation, grain growth dominates the recrystallization process. The grain growth
rate is given by
 



 
kT
GE
adt
dr
v acdg
2/
exp2
0
, (15)
where acG is volume transfer free energy, a is the average atomic distance about 3Å.
The grain distribution from Monte-Carlo simulation based classical recrystallization theory is
shown in Fig. 10. In order to get the statistical characteristics of TFTs fabricated on the
polycrystalline layer after recrystallization, a program was developed to calculate the number of
grain boundaries. The device regions are randomly selected on the recrystallization, as shown in
Fig. 10.
Fig. 10. Grain distribution simulated by Monte-Carlo method and randomly selected device
regions.
10
,gb 
g
TFTg
gb
gb
TFTg
gb
L
l
L
l 

















,
//,
,
1 , (17)
where lgb is the effective grain boundary width around 0.1um and ,//gb is the longitudinal grain
boundary mobility of 3 cm2/Vsec. The mobility of the current path without longitudinal grain
boundary is calculated by
 
1
,
,
1 gig gi eff gi gb g TFT
gb
L N l l L
 



                
, (18)
where gi is the interior mobility taken as 300 cm2/Vsec and the transverse grain boundary
mobility is 30 cm2/Vsec. N is the grain boundary number in a TFT. The device models
mentioned above can also be applied with experimental grain boundary image from electron
microscopy. Figures 13 and 14 are calculated distributions for threshold voltage and mobility
based on experimental grain boundary pictures.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
0
10
20
30
P
er
ce
nt
ag
e
(%
)
Threshold Voltage (V)
Fig. 13. Variation of threshold voltage based on device models and grain distribution
65 70 75 80 85
0
10
20
30
P
er
ce
nt
ag
e
(%
)
Mobility (cm2/V*Sec)
Fig. 14. Variation of mobility based on device models and grain distribution
12
[11] T. A. Chou and J. Kanicki, “Two-dimensional numerical simulation of
solid-phase-crystallized polysilicon thin-film transistor characteristics,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 31,
4550, (1991).
[12] P. S. Lin et al., “A quasi-two-dimensional analytical model for the turn-on characteristics of
polysilicon thin film transistors,” IEEE Trans. Electron Device 37, 666 (1990).
[13] H. N. Chern et al., “An analytical model for the above-threshold characteristics of
polysilicon thin film transistors,” IEEE Trans. Electron Device 42, 1240 (1995).
[14] S. S. Chung et al., “A physicaly-based built-in Spice poly-Si model for circuit simulation
and reliability evaluation,” in IEDM Tech. Dig. 139 (1996).
[15] M. D. Jacunski et al., “Threshold voltage, filed efect mobility, and gate-to-channel
capacitance in polysilicon TFT’s,” IEEE Trans. Electron Device 43, 1433 (1996).
[16] A. W. Wang and K. C. Saraswat, “A strategy for modeling of variations due to grain size in 
polycrystalline thin-film transistors,” IEEE Trans. Electron Device 47, 1035 (2000).
[17] V. W. C. Chan and P. C. H. Chan, “An empirical model to determine the grain size of 
metal-induced lateral crystalized film,” IEEE Trans. Electron Device 49, 1399 (2002).
[18] C. Fischer et al., MINMOS 6.1 user’s guide. Vienna : Technical Univeristy Vienna, 1999.
計畫成果自評
本計畫完成開發連續波雷射再結晶之製程模擬、元件模擬及統計模型，在複晶矽薄膜電晶
體之電腦輔助設計領域方面已取得領先地位。目前未見國際上有相關連續波雷射再結晶製
程模擬之報導，以三維模擬晶界效應亦超出一般二維複晶矽薄膜電晶體元件模擬，將統計
模型與製程模擬整合亦數創舉。有關蒙地卡羅法模擬晶粒成長部份正整理數據投稿於國際
期刊。
14
