行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
鐵鉑-介電奈米結構之磁電性質研究 
計畫編號：NSC 89-2216-E-008-020 
執行期限： 98 年 2 月 1 日至 98 年 10 月 31 日 
主持人：魏大華  國立臺北科技大學機械工程系 
      研究人員：藍永明、郭育安、沈志陽  國立臺北科技大學機電整合研究所 
 
一、中文摘要 
本研究探討二氧化矽介電層分別添加
於鐵鉑垂直磁化薄膜結構之頂層或中間
層，探討二氧化矽添加層位置對微結構及
磁矩翻轉的影響及其機制。微結構的觀察
顯示：連續狀鐵鉑薄膜結構從類顆粒狀(頂
層)轉變為孤立顆粒狀薄膜(中間層)，接續
去研究其磁化翻轉行為及晶粒間交互作用
力行為。其磁化翻轉機制由磁壁運動轉化
為獨立翻轉行為，由於顆粒間獨立分開，
大幅降低晶粒間交互耦合作用力，此項結
果相當符合高密度垂直記錄媒體的需求。 
關鍵詞：鐵鉑薄膜、二氧化矽介電層、磁 
化翻轉行為、磁交互耦合、微結構細化。 
 
Abstract 
This project shows significant differences 
between top and middle SiO2 additive 
locations into perpendicular FePt (001) film 
structures on magnetization reversal 
behavior and microstructure. The formation 
of nanogranular-like or two-dimensional 
magnetic assemblies of ordered FePt (001) 
structures was directly obtained with this top 
or middle additive process at only 400 oC 
due to the interpenetration of SiO2 which 
has a lower surface energy. Studies of 
angular dependent coercivity show a 
tendency of a domain-wall motion shift 
towards rotation of reverse-domain type 
upon insertion of SiO2 into FePt structures, 
leading to a decoupling of intergrain 
interaction, which will be suitable for 
multi-applications such as ultrahigh density 
perpendicular magnetic storage devices. 
Keys words: FePt thin films, dielectric SiO2 
layer, magnetization reversal behavior, 
magnetic exchange coupling, and 
microstructure refinement.  
二、計畫緣由與目的 (Purpose of project) 
Magnetic L10 nanostructured materials 
have undergone rapid development in recent 
years because of their potential applications 
in future high-density magnetic storage 
media and spin electronic devices [1-6]. The 
most important aspect of a high 
magneto-crystalline anisotropy constant (Ku) 
value is that it has the ability to maintain 
enough thermal stability to resist thermal 
fluctuation and demagnetization effects 
[7-8]. In previous works on addition of 
dielectric element into FePt binary system 
(such as B2O3, Al2O3, MgO, SiO2, BN, and 
C), the additives were in order to control the 
grain size and microstructure of the FePt 
phase, which had either random orientation 
or high fabrication temperatures for L10 
ordering [9-20]. This project shows 
significant differences between top and 
middle SiO2 additives in FePt on magnetic 
performance and microstructure at a low 
deposition temperature of 400 oC. 
 
三、研究方法與步驟 (Experiments) 
The additive top (Case 1) or middle 
(Case 2) SiO2 layer was deposited atop the 
[Fe/Pt]4 and [Fe/Pt]8 bilayers onto the MgO 
(001) substrates via e-beam evaporation 
without introducing any oxygen source and 
its thickness was varied from 2 nm to 6 nm, 
and all films were deposited at 400 oC. The 
corresponding schematic diagram of the top 
and middle SiO2 location is as shown in Fig. 
1. The following analyses will be focused on 
the film structures for the top and middle 
additive SiO2 into the FePt in order to study 
the effects of different location of the SiO2 
on the microstructure and magnetic 
performance of the FePt nanostructures.  
 
Fig. 5. TEM images for FePt films (a) without, and 
(b) with 4 nm thick SiO2 capping layer; (c) and (d) 
are the corresponding cross-sectional images for (a) 
and (b). Image (e) is with 8 nm SiO2 capping layer. 
A clear change in the surface morphology 
of the FePt is observed in the structures with 
SiO2 capping layer. The grains of the FePt 
film without SiO2 capping layer are 
connected with each other, and the structure 
looks like a continuous film structure. The 
morphology changes from continuous to 
nanogranular-like microstructures as the 
FePt with SiO2 capping layer. It indicates 
that SiO2 could penetrate into the FePt 
structures along the grain boundaries, and 
the grain size is reduced as shown in Fig. 5. 
It is clearly observed that the amplitude 
intensities of the oscillation fringes of FePt 
capped with SiO2 layer are getting lower 
than those without a capping layer as shown 
in Fig. 6. This also indicates that SiO2 
mostly diffuse into the FePt films along the 
grain boundaries, and the microstructure 
refining effect could be achieved via the 
introduction of a single SiO2 capping layer. 
 
Fig. 6. X-ray reflectivity patterns of the FePt films (a) 
without, and (b) with a 8 nm SiO2 capping layer. 
 
Fig. 7. Angular dependence of coercivity for the FePt 
thin films without, and with 4 and 8 nm thick SiO2 
capping layer, respectively. 
The angular dependence of coercivity was 
used to investigate the magnetization 
reversal of the FePt films without and with 4 
nm and 8 nm thick SiO2 capping layers as 
shown in Fig. 7. The angular dependence of 
the coercivity profile for the FePt without 
SiO2 shows a typical peak behavior, which 
is closer to the domain-wall-motion mode. 
When the FePt films capped with an 
amorphous SiO2 single layer, the profile is 
closer to the rotation mode due to the films 
with nanogranular-like microstructure. 
It can be seen from Fig. 8 that FePt 
without SiO2 indicates a positive δM value, 
while FePt capped with SiO2 layer exhibits 
only the negative δM value at all applied 
fields (dipole interaction). This suggests that 
the reduction of exchange interactions 
between grains in FePt films could be 
achieved by addition of a SiO2 single layer. 
 
Fig. 8. δM curves of the FePt films without and 
with 4 and 8 nm SiO2 capping layers with the 
external field applied perpendicular to the film plane. 
 
Fig. 12. Angular dependence of coercivity for the 
FePt thin films without, and with 4 and 6 nm thick 
SiO2 middle additive layer, respectively. 
The angular dependence of the coercivity 
profile for the FePt without SiO2 shows a 
typical peak behavior, which is closer to the 
domain-wall-motion mode. While the FePt 
structures added with amorphous SiO2, the 
profile is closer to the rotation mode due to 
the system composed of nanogranular 
structures, and the magnetic reversal become 
more independent as shown in Fig. 12. From 
above results indicate a tendency toward 
weakened domain-wall motion behavior, but 
an enhanced rotation mode mechanism in 
the magnetization reversal process, via the 
introduction of a SiO2 single intermediate 
layer into FePt structures, which may 
decouple the intergrain interaction between 
the FePt neighboring grains. 
 
Fig. 13. δM curves of the FePt films without and 
with 4 and 6 nm SiO2 middle additive layers with the 
external field applied perpendicular to the film plane. 
Figure 13 shows Kelly-Henkel plot (δM 
measurement) for the FePt structures 
without, and with 4 nm and 6 nm thick SiO2 
middle additive layers, respectively. The 
FePt structures without SiO2 indicates a 
positive δM value (strong exchange 
interaction), while FePt additive with a SiO2 
layer exhibits only the negative δM value at 
all applied fields (decoupled interaction). 
This suggests that the reduction of exchange 
interactions between neighboring grains in 
FePt systems could be achieved by addition 
of an amorphous SiO2 middle layer into the 
FePt film structures. 
 
五、結論 (Conclusions) 
In summary, we have demonstrated that 
high (001) oriented FePt nanoparticles can 
be achieved via the addition of a middle 
SiO2 layer into FePt structures. We also 
systematically investigated the 
microstructure and magnetic performance of 
the FePt film structures with SiO2 additive 
in different locations. The remarkable 
change in the microstructure of the FePt is 
observed due to the penetration effect of the 
SiO2. This study provides a simple approach 
for fabricating well-isolated FePt (001) 
nanoparticles with controllable size, 
coercivity, and reduced exchange 
interactions in general at the relatively low 
deposition temperature of 400 oC, which 
could have potential for application in future 
high-density magnetic storage devices. 
 
六、參考文獻 (References) 
1. U. Hillebrecht, Science 284, 2099 (1999). 
2. M. Albrecht, G. H. Hu, I. L. Guhr, T. C. Ulbrich, 
J. Boneberg, P. Leiderer, and G. Schatz, Nature 
Mater. 4, 203 (2005). 
3. R. Kainuma, Y. Imano, W. Ito, Y. Sutou, H. 
Morito, S. Okamoto, O. Kitakami, K. Oikawa, 
A. Fujita, T. Kanomata, and K. Ishida, Nature 
(London) 439, 957 (2006). 
4. C. Chappert, A. Fert, and F. N. Van Dau, Nature 
Mater. 6, 813 (2007). 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
ICMAT 2009（International Conference on Materials for Advanced Technologies）國際
會議是一個很重要的學術會議，與會發表之論文極具學術與實務價值，吸引許多國內
外的一流學者參與。此次會議於6月28日至7月3日在新加坡 Suntec Singapore 
International Convention & Exhibition Centre 舉行，會議時間一共6天，每天皆有邀請
演講，演講之專家學者皆為各研究領域之佼佼者，藉此機會可與平常只能在文獻上所
看到之作者現場互動及相互交流討論研究結果。藉由會中發表論文之機會，將研究成
果公諸於國際會議上，以提升我方科技研究之國際地位，會中藉由與國外學者相互討
論的機會，與各國學者專家交換心得及經驗，來提升學術研究品質。現場成果發表分
為海報發表及口頭發表，壁報論文的發表，作者須在其壁報前停留2個小時，並做口
頭講解，讓與會者能與作者做面對面的溝通與討論所呈現之研究成果也相當豐碩。 
二、與會心得 
無論在邀請演講或海報發表上，皆可觀摩到世界各國先進之最新研究方向及成
果，並藉此機會與他們討論其研究成果及實驗設計等問題，實在是獲益良多。此次大
報 告 人 姓 名 魏大華 服務機構 
及 職 稱
國立臺北科技大學機械系 
助理教授 
時間 
會議 
     地點 
2009/06/28~2009/07/03 
International Conference on Materials for Advanced Technologies (ICMAT 2009) 
新加坡 (Singapore) 
會 議 名 稱 
(中文) 尖端材料技術國際研討會 
(英文) ICMAT 2009 conferences 
發 表 論 文 題 目 
(中文) 生醫應用之高磁化強度鐵鉑奈米粒子合成 
(英文) Controlled synthetic conditions of FePt nanoparticles with high 
magnetization for biomedical applications 
形成 L10 序化相時，particles 會相互結合，原本的規則排列會因退火而破壞掉。另外
日本富士通（Fujitsu）研究團隊在此會議中發表一篇文章，宣稱在 Fe-Pt 合成溶液中
添加穩定劑並配合旋轉塗佈法（spin coating）可有效阻止晶粒和晶粒的連結，這是一
種新的突破，解決了令很多團隊困擾的問題，使得化學合成法往前跨進了一大步。 
目前奈米金屬線或 dots 也相當多人研究，有些團隊是利用基板效應而自我組裝
(self-assembly)成長，有些則是利用模版來製造奈米級微結構，目前都處於基礎研究
階段，相信未來都能應用於商業量化實用面。以上研究都是和本實驗室目前及未來發
展方向密切相關。參加此次會議，的確對自我提升及視野開闊皆有相當大的幫助，更
加助益於日後研究計畫之進行。 
 
三、建議 
國內的研究學者應更主動積極參加國際間的會議且發表論文，以累積自身研究實
力；並藉由出國瞭解各國文化的內涵。政府機關應更主動鼓勵國內研究學者參與國際
會議，以提身國內總體研究水準。筆者相當感謝國科會此次會議的補助。出席國際性
學術會議對於做基礎研究學者是一種莫大的鼓勵，並能增廣見聞同時吸收新知更能和
研究同一領域之外國學者互相切磋討論，僅此致謝。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
ICMAT 2009 會議手冊 
 
五、其他 
    相關領域會議之邀請稿件 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
