Abstract
According to the coming of digital life, people can acquire any amount of multimedia information through
the Internet and variety of digital device. It is a crucial problem to rapidly and efficiently deal with these
data including text, images, audio, video and etc. Moreover, in the sub-area of 3- dimensional computer
graphics and animation, it changes the human vision from plane to stereo, and provides much interactive
experience. When making a title of 3D computer animation, two important data are needed: one is 3D model,
the other is motion data streams. The latter offer action by trajectory, and it can be computed by motion
capturing devices. These data acquired from expensive devices must be post processed that they will be
usable. The processing includes segmentation, recognition, classification and pruning. The report proposed a
novel representation of mocap data, and recognizing the matching data more rapidly than other strategies.
And the approach can be used for retrieving the suitable sub-motion from existing ones.
Keywords: mocap data, recognition, segmentation
摘要
數位生活時代的來臨，使得我們可以透過網路與各種數位設備，取得豐富的多媒體資訊。而對於能夠
快速與有效率地去傳輸與處理這些包含文字、語音、影像、視訊等訊號，始終是個重要的議題。特別
是在三維圖像與電腦動畫的領域，它能滿足人們在電子設備上，不再只是看到二維平面的資訊，而是
三維且有更多互動性的資訊。在三維電腦動畫中除了三維模型外，還有賦予其運動屬性的動作串流資
料。為求逼真，這些動作多是使用動作捕捉器(MOCAP)取得。傳統上，這些透過昂貴人員與設備代
價取得的大量資料，尚需經過繁雜的人為後處理的動作，方能套用到動畫程式或軟體中使用。本計畫
的目的，就是要研究如何對這些 MOCAP 取得的動作資料，作切割,辨識與分類之處理。在本年度進
行的工作我們將對連續的複合動作資料作切割，以辨識分解後的簡單動作，並建立高階的動作語意。
關鍵字：動作捕捉資料、辨識、切割
become an important issue in computer animation. This application relates to another problem, that is the
identification and extraction of logically related motions. Kovar and Gleicher [2] pointed out that logically
similar motions need not be numerically similar. Muller et al. [3] proposed various kinds of qualitative
features describing geometric relations among specified body joints of a pose, and showed how these
features induce a time segmentation of MOCAP data streams. Some research was proposed for segmenting a
long motion clip. Li et al. [4] analyze the singular values and vectors by SVD to decompose a motion stream.
And Li. et al. [5] used multi-class support vector machine (SVM) classifiers to classify the feature vectors.
These approaches didn’t consider the temporal variant of motion clips, just considered as multi-attributes
data. In this report, we proposed a segmentation scheme based on regular expression matching. The method
solves the motion segmentation problem on temporal domain.
3. Proposed Approach
A composite motion sequence got from MOCAP system must be processed before storing it into databases.
The preprocessing includes noise removing and segmenting. Our approach firstly extracts the features in
MOCAP data, secondly segments it into several fragments according to variant features.
3.1 Geometric Attributes by Boolean Values
The posture represents the status of the body such as standing, sitting, raising a leg, or etc. A posture can be
defined by many geometrical characteristics in the body, and the geometrical characteristic can be defined
by the position of a joint, an angle between two bones, or a relation among several bones. For reducing the
complexity of joints in one frame, we just extract some attributes related to one specific action.
For simplicity, in the folowing we assume the specific action is ‘walking’ regardless of fast or slow. 
Suppose that niia ,,1),(deg_  and niib ,,1),(deg_  are two angles of left and right angles. When
walking normally, the two legs will be bent alternatively. A threshold  is set to represent the leg is bent or
not. So, we transform the geometric attributes into Boolean by the following equations. That is, if
)(/)( ibia is 1 for some i , it means that the left/right leg is bent in this frame.
ni
ia
i_a
ia ,,1
)(deg_if,1
)(degif,0
)( 




 

(1)
ni
ib
i_b
ib ,,1
)(deg_if,1
)(degif,0
)( 




 

(2)
3.2 Definition of Motion Symbol
Consider the case in last section, each frame has two attributes which mean the two legs are bending or not.
Furthermore we’l use the regular expression to describe the symbol in the motion sequence. For simplicity,
the attributes )(ia or )(ib are abbreviated as A or B . Define the symbols of action as follows:
  )()()()()()(: BABABABABABA1S (3a)
 )()(:2 BAABS (3b)
 )()(:3 ABBAS . (3c)
In (3), S1 represents the action of walking or running, S2 represents the action of standing up, and S3
