 2
一、摘要 
    The average score of subjects’ ratings for a specific 
system interface to generalize subjects' aesthetic preference 
for the interface system might be not appropriate because 
the physical prototypical exemplars of objects might not 
play a determinant role in judging beauty, but the pleasure 
prototypes presenting affective meanings of the objects.   
When subjects like the affective meanings of objects, the 
objects are judged beauty. The purpose of this study is to 
explore the affective meanings and its properties.  The 
Regression analysis and Factor Analysis are used in the 
experiment to find out affective meanings form 29 
adjective pairs, affective meanings, boiled down from more 
than 100 adjective pairs collected from journals, catalogues, 
books and websites.  The result shows that there are two 
kinds of affective meanings: High-consistent and 
Low-consistent affective meanings.  In High-consistent 
affective meanings, both the strength of affective meanings 
and the aesthetic rating scores for color combinations are 
significantly correlated for all subjects.  Otherwise, the 
affective meanings are called Low-consistent affective 
meanings.  Two types of High-consistent affective 
meanings are found in this study.  First, Value Affective 
Meanings refers to those affective meanings related to 
subjective values of subjects on judgment of beauty.  
Second, Disinterestedness Affective Meanings refers to the 
affective meanings related to design principles determining 
their judgment of beauty without any interest.   Also, 20 
affective meanings are Low-consistent prototypes which 
can be distinguished into three types of affective meanings: 
Action Affective Meanings, Practicality Affective 
Meanings and Temperament Affective Meanings. 
 
關鍵詞：aesthetics, color combination, icon 
 
二、緣由與目的 
Besides being easily recognized and remembered icons 
can save more screen space than words.  Today’s display 
technologies have the ability to display numerous colors. 
Therefore, icons with colors are used extensively in 
graphical user interfaces for hand-held electronic products, 
such as mobile phones and PDAs.   However, most 
researches on icon-background color combinations focus 
on the usability of the screen interface design. That is, the 
color combinations in the interactive interfaces were 
evaluated with learnability, efficiency, memorability, errors 
or satisfaction.  Recently, aesthetic preferences are also 
discussed for interface design improvement.  Aesthetics, 
which refers to “beauty” in this study, pertains to a sense of 
what is beautiful and visually pleasing and a strong 
determinant of the user’s pleasure experience in using 
system interfaces (Gatto, 1987).  Some researchers 
believed that user aesthetic preferences for the proposed 
system interface designs is important because the aesthetic 
quality of a product might influence consumer attitudes and 
is a critical determinant of its marketplace success (Bloch 
1995).  Norman (2004) claims that aesthetic design can be 
even more influential in affecting user preferences than 
traditional operational usability in interactive systems. 
Several researchers devoted studies to discover which color 
combinations were beautiful to users in screen design.  
These studies presumed that the aesthetic preference ratings 
between subjects are highly consistent.  For example, 
Shieh and Ko (2005) used the means of subjects’ 
preference ratings to explore the effects of 
target/background color combinations on the judgment of 
icon design beauty. Their results indicated that black 
targets (black-on-white, black-on-yellow) and black 
backgrounds (red-on-black, yellow-on-black) were the 
most popular.  In chromatic color combinations, 
yellow-on-blue was the most favored.  Camgoz, Yener & 
Guvenc (2002), who explored the preference responses for 
figure/ground color combinations, found that colors with 
maximum saturation and brightness were most preferred. 
They found that blue was the most preferred hue. 
However, it was found that the authors’ 
recommendations about subjects’ aesthetic ratings for color 
combinations were not always consistent with each other. 
One of the possible reasons might be that aesthetic 
preferences are highly personal factors, with a large 
variation between users. The rating consistence is low 
between subjects for these previous studies.  Rating 
Consistence refers to the extent of the agreement among 
subject aesthetic preferences for a specific color 
combination in this paper.  Therefore, previous studies 
that used the average score of subjects’ ratings for a 
specific system interface to judge subjects’ aesthetic 
preferences for the interface system might be not 
appropriate.  
Several factors would influence the judgment of the 
aesthetics of color combinations, such as the physical 
feature, human past experiences, contexts, and individual 
emotions. 
 
Physical features 
 
First, physical features might be the factors swaying user 
aesthetic preference for the color combinations. For the 
philosophical views in judgment of beauty, two extremities 
argue what influence the judgment of beauty: objective 
view and subjective view. Objective views believe that 
physical features are the key factors in judging the beauty 
of objects. Osborne (1968) believed that the design 
properties, such as order, proportion and symmetry, affect 
human judgment of aesthetics. For example, if an 
icon-background color combination pleases someone 
aesthetically, he does not care who the designer is, or 
whether it is a baroque or rococo design.  He just feels 
pleasure and realizes that others will respond the same way.  
In Basic Design courses in design education, a beautiful 
form is constructed with design elements that are arranged 
according to the design principles whether in art or product 
design without consideration of the context.  In his book, 
Itten (1975) introduced that rhythm is an important 
approach to create beautiful objects.  Gatto et al. (1987) 
 4
or good color combination would influence whether people 
judge it as beautiful. 
 
Arousals 
 
Besides, Cupchik (1994) believed that the judgment of 
aesthetic preference is decided by object configurations that 
evoke pleasure or arousal.  The degree of evoking arousal 
depends on humans associating the object configurations 
with pleasure and excitement based on past experiences or 
a learning process.  For example, according to the 
principle of the aesthetic middle, people tolerate most often 
and for the longest time a certain medium degree of arousal, 
which makes them feel neither over-stimulated nor 
dissatisfied (Cupchik, 1994).  Sentimental art producing 
“idealized thoughts about the goodness and purity of the 
subject matter” is arousal-moderating and evokes responses 
of warmth in unsophisticated audiences.  In the meantime, 
learning mechanisms would reduce arousals, such as, 
conditioning, habituation, and stimulus generalization.  
Thus, if conditioning serves to make a particular stimulus 
feature familiar and pleasurable, then repeated exposure to 
the stimulus should reduce its reward value through 
habituation. 
 
Prototypes 
 
Besides, Whitfield (2000) proposes the 
Categorical-Motivation model to explain the characteristics 
of aesthetics by integrating arousal-based model and 
categorization-based model.  In this view, prototypic 
exemplars sway human judgment of beauty (Lindgaard and 
Whitfield, 2004).  These prototypic exemplars provide 
stable sensory-perceptual-emotional reference points for 
the processing of contiguous stimuli and would minimize 
information processing demands.  Proximity to the 
prototype will generate pleasure, whereby the closer to the 
prototype the greater the pleasure.  These prototypes 
would provide essential reference points to permit fast 
navigation of the system (Lindgaard and Whitfield, 2004).  
However, it cannot explain why a color combination with 
identical physical features does not have the same aesthetic 
ratings for different individuals.  
 
Affective meanings 
 
The physical prototype or arousal evoked seems to be 
not the only factor influencing the judgment of beauty.  
Pleasure evoked by aesthetics may be an emotional reaction. 
The judgment of beauty may not only depend on one of the 
object shapes, meanings, contexts, function of the color 
combinations or the audience motivations but on the 
preference levels of the affective meanings that the color 
combination presents.  The affective meanings can explain 
why the objective views believe that the object’s intrinsic 
properties would sway the judgment of beauty even when 
the viewers do not have any information about the object.  
Object properties, such as color, shape and texture, etc., can 
be deemed as signs expressing to audiences.  These 
properties can evoke audiences’ feelings. For example, a 
wide inverted U-curve, “︵”, evokes some audience a 
feeling of being unhappy.  This affective meaning of the 
object properties would sway their judgment of beauty for 
the object. 
The preference levels of the affective meanings would be 
decided by audience experience, education and arousals.  
The affective meanings of the objects will change when the 
context in which the objects are in is changed.  For 
example, the form “Fountain”, one of the works of Marcel 
Duchamp (1887-1968) is deemed as aesthetic, but it is not 
an admirable work when being put in the restroom.  the 
affective meanings of the “fountain”, is changed when the 
urinal is put in the restroom.  That is, one may feel the 
affective meaning of the “fountain” is “masculine” when 
the urinal is put in a museum, but he may feel “foul” when 
the urinal is put in the restroom.  Therefore, it seems that 
aesthetic preference judgment depends on objects’ affective 
meanings which are influenced by the context and user 
experience. That is, when a color combination is presented, 
one perceives not only the feature qualities (i.e., prototypes 
of physical shapes) of the color combination, but also the 
affective meanings of the color combinations in some 
specific situations.  The affective meanings serve as 
pleasure prototypes which would provide essential 
reference points to permit people to feel objects quickly.  
The level of experienced pleasures depends on human 
experiences on the affective semantic meanings he 
encountered before.  For example, Huang (preparation for 
press) believes that one who prefers the feeling of “cute”, a 
pleasure prototype, based on his past experiences would 
like the color combinations which present the semantic 
meaning, “cute”, and rates them with higher scores.   
Inversely, those who do not like the feeling of “cute” 
would rate them with lower scores.  Furthermore, a color 
combination may include various affective semantic 
meanings with different intensities.  The degree of the 
experienced pleasure is various for different people for 
every affective meanings evoked from the color 
combination. Therefore, the affective meanings the color 
combination presents might be the mediator variables 
affecting aesthetic judgments for the color combinations. 
The affective meanings evoked from the color 
combinations can explain Huang’s argument (2008) that 
the aesthetics rating consistence is low between subjects for 
a specific color combination. 
 
Purposes 
 
Hence, the affective meanings of an object can explain 
why the aesthetic preference for objects is not rated 
consistently for most color combinations between subjects.  
One perceives not only the physical feature qualities of the 
color combination, but also the affective semantic 
meanings of the color combinations.  However, few 
studies discuss the aesthetics with the properties of the 
affective meanings.  Even, most studies rating the 
 6
words with some conceptual affinity (such as, passionate, 
zealous) were condensed.   Then five experts in the 
design field conducted a preliminary test to remove the less 
significant adjectives, or the affinity words.  Finally, 29 
pair adjectives are selected in the experiment, shown on 
Figure 1. 
 
The 29 pair adjectives plus an additional 
"Beautiful-Ugly" pair are listed on a questionnaire.  There 
are ten scales shown in ten check boxes for each adjective 
pair on the questionnaire. The 2 adjectives of each pair 
with ten check boxes are lined in horizon, and the ten check 
boxes are located between the 2 adjectives.  The left 
adjective on each pair is used to name the affective 
meaning of this pair.  For example, the “Clean” is an 
affective meaning to express the adjective pair, 
“Clean-Dirty”. 
40 color combinations were randomly retrieved from the 
Huang's study (2007) and displayed on the computer screen 
in the experiment.  There are several merits using icons 
with these 40 color combinations in this study.  First, 
icons are used in interface design extensively.  Next, 
human prefers color interfaces most, and today’s 
technologies have abilities to display numerous colors.  
Last is not least, the paper tries to eliminate the effects of 
the other physical styling (such as texture and gradation, 
etc.) and the contexts because both styling and context that 
could influence subject ratings of affective meanings would 
result in the complexity to explain the experiment data. 
As subject performed the experimental task, only one of 
the 40 color combinations is shown on the display at a time.  
The display setting is shown on Figure 2.  The computer 
modeled as HP Workstation XW4200 was used to control 
the experiment procedure; and the experimental material is 
programmed with Director 8.0.  The ambient room 
luminance was about 43 lux at observers’ seats. 
Fig. 2. The test page displaying a color combinations. 
 
Procedures 
 
The subjects sit in front of a computer screen.  The 
researcher gives them a questionnaire, shown on Fig. 1, 
with the list of 30 pair adjectives (including the 
"Beautiful-Ugly" pair) with random orders.  After subjects 
filling out the personal data, a screen page (on LCD display 
modeled CMV CT-736D) shows one of the 40 color 
combinations. Therefore, there are 40 questionnaires for 
each subject.  Subjects were asked to judge the affective 
meanings of the presented color combination according to 
the 30 pair adjectives by marking one of checked boxes on 
the questionnaire.  The boxes are encoded from 1 to 10, 
from left to right, respectively for each adjective pair.  
Subjects select the box closer to left if believing that the 
affective meaning of the presenting color combinations is 
closer to the left adjective for each adjective pair.  
Subjects are reminded to neglect the numbers on the top of 
the boxes in the questionnaire. 
Subjects spend about 15 minutes on filling a 
questionnaire for one color combination.  After finish one 
questionnaire of one color combination, they take a rest for 
5 minutes before filling next questionnaire of one of the 
other color combinations. They rate 8 color combinations 
per day and spend less than 3 hours to answer the 
questionnaire for a day.  It is spent 5 days for each subject 
to complete the questionnaires. 
 
四、結果與討論 
In this study, the rating scores of the specific adjective 
pairs for a specific color combination reflect the strength of 
the affective meanings evoked from the color combination. 
The strength of affective meanings of the color 
combinations would be shifted due to the experimental 
contexts.  To eliminate contextual effects, which would 
change the semantics of these color combinations, all color 
combinations are presented in the same experimental 
settings by using the computer display.  Besides, the 
physical features of these color combinations are identical, 
such as icons’ shapes, texture and size which would 
influence subjects’ judgments due to their past experiences.  
Therefore, the rating consistence of adjective pairs evoked 
by the color combinations is increasing in this study.   
 
High-consistent affective meanings   
 
By Stepwise Regression analysis, the adjective pairs that 
can predict the “Beautiful-Ugly” pair (i.e., its affective 
meaning is “Beauty”) are listed on table 1.  After the 
Stepwise Regression analysis, the result shows that nine 
adjective-pairs significantly correlate to the 
"Beautiful-Ugly" pair.  They are "Clean-Dirty," 
"Agreeable-Disagreeable," "Noble-Vile," "Sweet-Bitter," 
"Open-Closed," "Massive-Weak," "Order-Mess," 
"Unity-Inharmonious," and "Progressive-Regressive" 
shown as Table 1.  That is, nine affective meanings can 
predict the “Beauty” of the color combinations: "Clean," 
"Agreeable," "Noble," "Sweet," "Open," "Massive," 
"Order," "Unity," and "Progressive."  These nine affective 
meanings would significantly affect the subjects’ rating 
consistence when subjects judge the beauty of the color 
combination.  That is, when subjects like/or dislike the 
affective meaning presenting from the color combination, 
these subjects would rate consistently the color 
combination with a high/or low score, respectively.  
Therefore, these affective meanings are High-consistent 
 8
chosen as the main factors.  Table 2 shows the loadings of 
the 17 adjective pairs one the three main factors after 
varimax transformation.  The both factor loadings of 
“Slight-Heavy” on Factor 1 and Factor 2 are close to each 
other and more than 0.5.  It is hard to assign it either to 
Factor 1 or to Factor 2.  Likewise, the both factor loadings 
of “Upward-Downward,” or “Smooth-Coarse”, in Factor 2 
and Factor 3 are also close to each other and more than 0.5.  
These two adjective pairs are also hard to assign them 
either to Factor 2 or Factor 3.  Therefore, these three pairs 
are deleted.   Table 2 shows the loads of adjective pairs 
which significantly correlate to the "Beautiful-Ugly" pair 
on the 3 main factors after varimax transformation. 
 
Table 2. Loadings of the adjective pairs which non-significantly correlate 
to the "Beautiful-Ugly" pair on the 3 main factors after varimax 
transformation. 
 
Factor 1 included seven adjective pairs: 
“Dynamic-Static,“ “Excited-Calm,“ “Vivacious-Steady,“ “
Rapid-Slow,“ “Active-Passive,“ “Passionate-Indifferent“ a
nd “Bright-Dark.“ Since these items describe the feelings 
of being animated and active, this factor is named Action 
affective meanings (AAM).  Factor 2 included four 
adjective pairs: “Useful-Harmful“, “Legible-Ambiguous“, 
“Real-Illusional“, and “Tensional-Relaxative. “ Since these 
items describe the feelings of both explicitness and 
practicability for the color combinations, this factor is 
named Practicality affective meanings (PAM).  Factor 3 
included six adjective pairs: 
“Hard-Soft,“ “Deep-Shallow,“ “Masculine-Feminine,“ “Pra
gmatic-Romantic,“ “Adult-Childish“ and 
“Intensive-Loose“.  Since these items show the 
disposition of the color combinations, this factor is named 
Temperament affective meanings (TAM).  The meanings 
of these adjective pairs in the three main factors do not 
relate to the expression, or judgment, of good or bad values.  
That is, subject preference of one of adjectives in the three 
main factors is because of his subjective preference of the 
affective meaning, but not because of the judgment of 
values.  Different subjects may like different affective 
meanings in these three main factors.  That is why some 
subjects may like a specific color combination which is not 
preferred by others although affective meanings evoked 
from the color combination are identical.  The preference 
degrees of these affective meanings may be influenced by 
individual past experience, or conditioning. 
 
Preference of affective meanings for subjects 
 
Furthermore, for those who have different demographic 
characteristics, it is commonly believed that the affective 
meanings they prefer are different for different people.  
Interestingly, for those who have similar demographic 
background, the study also finds that the preference levels 
for only some of the affective meanings are identical, such 
as the affective meanings in VAM and DAM.  That is, the 
preference levels for most affective meanings are different 
for most subjects, even their demographic characteristics 
are similar.          
 
Aesthetic preference and DAM 
 
In addition, Kant believes that an object is beautiful if 
one likes it without any interest and should be free from 
any kind of desire, aim, or purpose, or any social, moral, or 
intellectual considerations (Wenzel, 2005).  The results 
show that the affective meanings (i.e., “Massive,” “Order” 
and “Unity”) categorized as DAM are unconcerned with 
any interest.  Based on Kant’s view, these affective 
meanings are critical in judgment of beauty.  In this study, 
the affective meanings in DAM are classified as the 
High-consistent affective meanings which can use predict 
the aesthetic preference of color combinations for subjects.  
In this situation, it is feasible for Kant’s view that an object 
is beautiful if one likes it without any interest.     
 
Aesthetic preference and VAM    
 
Besides, Kant divides satisfaction into three parts: 
“agreeable,” “beautiful” and “good“ satisfactions.  Kant 
believes that “good” or “agreeable” satisfaction is not 
“beautiful” satisfaction.  “Agreeable” is related to the 
individual subjective feelings about the object (Wenzel, 
2005).  In this study, the affective meanings (i.e., “Clean,” 
“Agreeable,” “Noble” and “Sweet”) in VAM are related to 
“agreeable” satisfaction because they express the subjective 
feelings of value judgment.  Therefore, these affective 
meanings would not influence judgment of beauty in light 
of Kant’s view.  However, this study does agree with this 
view.  The result shows that the affective meanings in 
VAM are classified as the High-consistent affective 
meanings which are appreciated with similar levels by all 
subjects.   The affective meanings in VAM can use to 
predict subjects’ aesthetic preference.    
 
Aesthetic preference and PAM, AAM and TAM     
 
Kant believes that “Good” satisfaction is related to the 
objects’ function with an objective ground.  Kant also 
believes that “good” satisfaction is not “beautiful” 
satisfaction.  In this study, the affective meanings (i.e., 
“Useful,” “Legible,” Real,” “Tensional,” etc.) in PAM are 
related to “good” satisfaction because they express the 
usability of color combinations.         
 10
emotions, affective meanings of the objects occurred in the 
limbic system of the brain before these affect meanings are 
relayed to cortex.  Subjects describe their affective after 
the signals of object stimulus are relayed to cortex.  The 
subject expresses their emotions consciously when they 
speak out the intensity of the affective meanings for a 
specific color combination.  Their conscious expressions 
of the affective meanings of the objects could be by way of 
their thinking affected by their past experienced knowledge 
or conditioning.  Therefore, it is difficult to avoid the 
effects of individual experienced knowledge or 
conditioning on judgment of beauty although this study has 
tried to reduce these effects as low as possible by recruiting 
subjects with similar demographic background. 
 
五、結論 
Affective meanings might be important factors affect 
subjects’ aesthetic preferences for color combinations.  
The result shows that there are two types of affective 
meanings: High-consistent and Low-consistent affective 
meanings. 
The High-consistent affective meanings are the affective 
meanings which influence all subjects' judgment of beauty 
in the same direction.  That is, where a subject rates the 
affective meanings higher, the other subjects also rate the 
“Beautiful-Ugly” pair higher.  The High-consistent 
affective meanings can be divided into two groups: VAM 
and DAM.  The meanings of the affective meanings in 
VAM have to do with the judgment of values.  The 
affective meanings in DAM are those belonged Design 
Principles which suggest the approaches to organizing the 
design elements influencing subject aesthetic preference 
without any interest. 
The Low-consistent affective meanings are the affective 
meanings whose strength on color combinations can not 
predict the aesthetics of these color combinations for 
various subjects.  That is, the rating scores of beauty are 
various for different subjects although the strength of 
affective meaning on the color combination is the same.  
They are divided into 3 groups: PAM, AAM and TAM. 
The affective meanings in PAM are those which describe 
the feelings of both explicitness and practicability for the 
color combinations.   The affective meanings in AAM are 
those which describe the feelings of being animated and 
active for color combinations.   The affective meanings in 
TAM are those which show the disposition of the color 
combinations. 
Finally, aesthetic preference might not only depend on the 
strength of the affective meaning on the color combination, 
but also depends on the subjects’ preference degrees for 
these affective meanings influenced by individual past 
experience or conditioning. 
 
六、參考文獻 
Bartlett, F. C. (1932). Remembering: A study in 
experimental and social psychology. Cambridge: 
Cambridge University Press.    
Bloch, P. (1995). "Seeking the ideal form: 
Product design and consumer response." Journal 
of Marketing, 59, 16-29. 
Camgoz, N., Yener, C. and Guvenc, D. (2002). 
"Effects of hue, saturation, and brightness on 
preference." Color Research and Application, 27, 
199-207. 
Cupchik, G. C. (1994). "Emotion in aesthetics: 
reactive and reflective models." Poetics, 23, 
177-188. 
Eaton, M. M. (2006). "Beauty and ugliness in and 
out of context." In Contemporary Debates in 
Aesthetics and the Philosophy of Art (ed. M. 
Kieran). 39-50. 
Cupchuk, G.C. and Gebotys, R.J. (1990). 
"Interest and pleasure as dimensions of aesthetic 
response." Emperical Studies of the Arts, 8(1), 
1-14. 
Damasio, A. R. (2000). "A second chance for 
emotion", in R. D. Lane and L. Nadel (eds), 
Fenner, D.E.W. (1996). Introduction to the 
Aesthetic Attitude, Humanities Press, Atlantic 
Highlands, NJ, pp. 2–19. 
Gatto, J. A., Porter, A. W. and Selleck, J. (1987). 
Visual Design, MA: Davis Publications. 
Graham, G. (2006). "Aesthetic empiricism and 
the challenge of fakes and ready-mades." In 
Contemporary Debates in Aesthetics and the 
Philosophy of Art (ed. M. Kieran). 11-21 
Huang, S.-M. (2006). "A study of reading time 
and viewer preferences for a variety of 
character-background chromaticity combinations 
for small traditional Chinese characters." 
Perceptual and Motor Skills, 103, 887-895. 
Huang, S.-M. (2007), "A Study of the 
Consistence of Subjective Ratings for 
Icon-background Color Combinations for Small 
Computer Icons." In: The International 
Conference on Industrial Engineering and 
Engineering Management, 462-466. 
Itten, J. (1975). Design and Form. NY: Van 
Nostrand Reinhold. 
Laviea, T. and Tractinskyb, N. (2004), 
"Assessing dimensions of perceived visual 
aesthetics of web sites." International Journal of 
Human-Computer Studies, 60  269–298. 
Lindgaard, G. and Whitfield, T. W. A. (2004). 
"Integrating aesthetics within an evolutionary and 
psychological framework." Theoretical Issue in 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          96 年  12 月  12 日 
報告人姓名  黃室苗 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立虎尾科技大學機械設計系 
副教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2008/DEC/8-11 
新加坡 
本會核定
補助文號
 
NSC-97-2221-E-150-033 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 國際工業工程和工程管理會議 
 (英文) The International Conference on Industrial 
Engineering and Engineering Management (IEEM 2008)   
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 小圖象配色之美感、視認度和舒適度之主觀評價一致性 
 (英文) Rating Consistence of Color Combinations for Aesthetic 
Preference, Legibility and comfort for Small Icons 
 
附件三
 
表 Y04 
接著是考慮使用者要如何使用，包括把圖書館帶給使用者；給使用者新的生活型
態；改變圖書館的生活形態。接著是傳遞知資訊方式，不只是提供足夠的知識庫，
也要以親近使用者的設計模式傳遞資訊。綜觀其言論，觀點新穎，增廣見聞。 
 
另外由 Dennis Lin 演講 Process Mining and RFID。
他為ＲＦＩＤ將有如４０年前的電腦，雖然剛開始
時，人們對他不是很了解，但不久，它將改變人類
的習慣，無論是在食衣住行育樂、保全…等。但因
RFID 的成功運用所帶來的是資科的爆炸，人們將要
面臨何處理這麼的資訊。因此 process mining 將是
重要的課題。process mining 將會從 modelling 數
據著手，即是你給我 data, 我將給你 model。介時，作業研究將會掀起 RFID 研究
潮。見解深入，只是，相對於現在的 RFID 發展，他的認識稍有不足。事實上，現
在的 data 爆炸已開始，雖然系統可以提供很多 data，但我們正運用的有限，因
此有許多知識管理，和 IT 投入研究。 
下午則是各場的論文發表，給我很多不同的想法。我所做的人因研究總是實際實
驗，或許可以朝向模擬的方式，提出人因模型。 
第三天上午則是由 Elsayed 主講 Industrial Management and Challenges in the 
Global Economy。今年剛好是 IE 領域的課程建構的第 100 年，他以 IE 最初以製
造為主的課程設計談起，認為 IE 的領域已隨時代科技技術的演進，其研究內容和
課程設計亦應隨著調整，以教育具有全球化能力的專業。他認為在科技全球化的
潮流下，系統的 reliability 和 quality 會是主流。因為全球化造成工作分工，
不同國家地區扮演不同的分工角色。的確令人深思未來的研究領域。 
接著就是由下一屆 IEEM2009 的主線和編輯群介紹投稿的領域等相關事項。然後就
是連續三場的研討會。 
最後一天是 Hhuman factors 領域的論文發表。有些是台灣論文, 有些是中國和其
他國家的論文發表。台灣的論文題目很明確，方法也正確，但是就是題目太小或
不具前瞻性。值的深思。接著中午則立即從忙離開，趕搭下午返台飛機。結束本
次的研討會行程 
 
三、建議 
感謝國科會的支持，使本人可以有機會參與此一大型 EI 級國際會議。雖助金額足
以支付註冊費和來回機票，大大減輕本人的經濟負擔，使本人得以參加大型國際
會議的夢想。真心感謝，無太多建議。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 會議論文集光碟—內容含蓋本次會議所有的議文 
 
 
表 Y04 
the preference level for some specific interface 
appearances is not high enough to sway user 
usability judgments.   Therefore, for some color 
combinations, likely the extent of users’ aesthetic 
preference might be not high enough to sway their 
judgment of the perceived usability.  Therefore, 
this study also tries to explore the color 
combinations that have highly positive 
correlations between aesthetic rating and their 
perceived usability. 
 
II. METHODOLOGY 
 
 The purpose of this study was to explore the 
degrees of consistency of aesthetic preference 
ratings for different icon-background color 
combinations, and to explore the relationships 
between aesthetic preference and their perceived 
usability quality for various color combinations.  
Rating consistence refers to the extent of the 
agreement among subject aesthetic preferences for 
a specific color combination in this paper.  
Aesthetics refers to the subjective pleasure the 
user experiences as he perceives the color 
combination.  The perceived usability includes 
two dimensions, legibility and comfort, measured 
by subjective ratings in the experiment in this 
paper. Legibility and comfort are two variables 
used to measure system usability frequently.  
Legibility refers to the ease with which the icons 
can be detected and discriminated from one 
another.  Legibility of icons depends on the 
degree of visibility or quality of the color 
combinations in this paper.  Comfort refers to the 
capacity to give physical ease and well-being.   
The standard deviation of each color 
combination is calculated to judge the rating 
consistence between subjects. The larger the 
standard deviation for a specific color 
combination, the deeper chasm among subjects for 
it is. Three dimensions were rated for each 
icon-background color combination in the 
experiment: legibility, comfort and aesthetics.  
To avoid response-style effects, the rating scores 
of all color combinations were standardized with 
mean=0 and SD=1 for each subject.   
The mean of a specific color combination is 
that the sum of subjects’ rating scores for the 
specific color combination is divided by the 
number of the subjects.  Subjects had to rate the 
legibility, comfort and aesthetics for each color 
combination.  Therefore, the mean of legibility 
rating, LMC, can be represented as 
n) L(L
1
÷= ∑
=
n
j
iji SMC
 
Where j=1, 2, 3,…, n; i=1, 2, 3,…, m.  The 
LMCi is the legibility mean of the ith color 
combination.  The LSij is the legibility rating 
score of the ith color combination rated by the jth 
subject. Its standard deviation (LDC) is expressed 
as LDCi, the standard deviation of legibility of the 
ith color combination. Next, for comfort rating, 
the mean, CMC, can be represented as 
n) C(C
1
÷= ∑
=
n
j
iji SMC  
Where j=1, 2, 3,…, n; i=1, 2, 3,…, m.  The 
CMCi is the comfort mean of the ith color 
combination.  The CSij is the comfort rating 
score of the ith color combination rated by the jth 
subject. Its standard deviation (CDC) is expressed 
as CDCi, the standard deviation of comfort of the 
ith color combination.  Besides, the mean of 
aesthetic rating, AMC, can be represented as: 
∑
=
÷=
n
j
iji SC
1
n)A(AM
 
Where i=1, 2, 3,…, n; j=1, 2, 3,…, m.  The 
AMCi is the mean of aesthetic rating of the ith 
color combination.  The ASij is the rating score 
of the ith color combination rated by the jth 
subject.  Its standard deviation (ADC) is 
expressed as ADCi, the standard deviation of 
aesthetic ratings of the ith color combination.  
 Next, Cluster analysis with nonhierarchical 
procedures was used to categorize the color 
表 Y04 
randomized.  There were 114 color combinations 
in each section.  Familiarization was based on an 
additional section with extra 114 color 
combinations used as a practice section not 
included in the 3306 color combinations.  
Therefore, there were 30 sections in the 
experiment.  Subjects had to perform 5 sections 
per days.  The first section in the first day was 
the practice section.  After subjects finished one 
section, the computer would ask the subjects to 
take a break.  Ten minutes later, the researcher 
asked the subjects to perform the next section.  
After subjects finished the fifth section, the 
researcher asked the subjects to come next day.  
Next day, the subjects performed the tasks with 
the procedure that was the same as the first day.  
Therefore, a subject need spend six days to finish 
the whole experiment. 
 
 
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
 
To understand the degree of subject rating 
consistence for each color combination, sequential 
threshold method of nonhierarchical clustering 
procedures was used to categorize the color 
combinations with the clustering variables, ADC, 
CDC and LDC.  Color combinations in the 
clusters with low ADC, low CDC and low LDC 
are those color combinations with higher 
consistence between subjects.  The experiment 
has to decide how many clusters should be formed 
before the color combinations are grouped.  The 
result of clustering analysis shows that the value 
of R-square increasingly levels off and the Within 
STD decreasingly levels off when the number of 
the clusters are more than 28 clusters. Therefore, 
these color combinations are grouped into 28 
clusters in this study.  The overall standard 
deviation within clusters is 0.11757; the R-square 
between clusters is 0.961223.  Fig. 1 and fig. 2 
show the 28 clusters in three dimensions, 
aesthetics, legibility and comfort.  The findings 
from data analysis are described below.  
 
1.2 A.  Rating Consistence Being Various 
Between Subjecte 
  
First, fig. 1 shows the central positions of the 28 
clusters categorized by clustering analysis with 
two standard deviations of both legibility and 
aesthetic rating scores.  The larger circle of the 
cluster means the larger amount of color 
combinations included in it.  The color 
combinations grouped in the clusters near to the 
left side of abscissa have higher degree of rating 
consistence between subjects for aesthetic ratings.  
The cluster C28, including 243 color combinations 
(7.35%), located near to the center of all 28 
clusters has more color combinations than the 
others. The number of color combinations of 
clusters decreased as their positions far away from 
the C28. The results indicate that most of color 
combinations are distributed on the center area of 
the 28 clusters, few on both sides of the abscissa.  
Like Fig. 1, Fig. 2 also shows that most of color 
combinations are distributed on the center area of 
the 28 clusters.  This evidence confirms that few 
color combination has extremely higher rating 
consistence between subjects. Therefore, the 
results implied that the degree of rating 
consistence between subjects was low for most 
color combinations because the means of standard 
deviations for aesthetic rating were higher for 
most color combinations.  The previous research 
suggestions deducted from the single average of 
user aesthetic preference scores might not be 
appropriate for the application of color 
combinations. 
 
表 Y04 
the discussion of the relations among color 
combinations, affective feelings, and their 
semantic meanings. 
 
C. Relations among Aesthetic and Legibility, 
Comfort Rating 
 
Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 show that the number of color 
combinations of clusters decreased as their 
positions far away from the C28 located at the 
center of clusters with most of color combinations. 
Besides, they also show a tendency that the 28 
clusters are distributed from bottom left to top 
right.    These clusters with larger/lower means 
of standard deviations for aesthetic preference 
have larger/lower means of standard deviations for 
legibility rating.  It appears that the rating 
consistence of both legibility and comfort would 
influence the aesthetic judgment, vise versa. 
Furthermore, by correlation analysis, the 
results show a significantly correlation between 
legibility rating and aesthetic preference 
(r=0.66602, p<0.001) and a significantly 
correlation between legibility rating and aesthetic 
preference (r=0.74826, p<0.001). However, the 
correlation coefficient, r=0.66602 and r=0.74826, 
demonstrates that the remained 33.398% and 
25.174% variance of aesthetic ratings can not be 
explained by legibility judgments and comfort 
judgments, respectively, although there are 
positive correlations between legibility and 
aesthetic rating and between comfort or aesthetic 
rating significantly. It appears that there are other 
factors affecting judgment of beauty beside both 
legibility and comfort.  That is, for these two 
usability variables, legibility and comfort, the 
results show that their rating scores do not entirely, 
but significantly, affect the aesthetic judgment.  
Therefore, the outcomes do not entirely agree with 
Hassenzahl’s [9] opinion that aesthetics was 
correlated with perceptions of the system’s quality 
that can be promoted by increasing the legibility 
or comfort of the color combinations in this study.  
 
1.4 D.  Conditions for High Correlation 
between Aesthetics, Legibility and comfort 
Ratings  
  
Compared with all clusters, C2 and C5, located 
near the bottom left on both fig.1 and fig. 2, have 
relatively lower means of ADC, LDC and CDC in 
the meantime.  Therefore, the color combinations 
in C2 and C5 have relatively higher consistence 
between subjects on aesthetics, legibility and 
comfort rating in the meantime.  However, the 
high degree of rating consistence for a specific 
color combination does not mean that it gets a 
high rating score from all subjects.  To find out 
the color combinations with the consistently 
highest rating scores, the color combinations on 
both C2 and C5 are mixed together, and then are 
categorized into five groups and plotted in fig. 3 
and fig. 4 by clustering variables, rating scores of 
legibility, comfort and aesthetics.  The within 
STD was 0.11754; the R-Square 0.961223.   
 
 
 
Fig. 3.  The central positions of the 5 clusters categorized by both means 
of legibility and aesthetic rating scores.   
 
