 1
I. Introduction 
Low-temperature-processed (LTP) poly- crystalline-silicon thin-film transistors (poly-Si TFTs) are 
attracting much attention for use in active-matrix flat-panel displays [1]. Various techniques have been 
used to crystallize α-Si into a large-grain poly-Si phase with a low defect density. Solid-phase 
crystallization (SPC) annealing in a furnace is a widely used scheme because of its simplicity as well as 
its ability to produce a smooth interface and excellent uniform film [2]. Unfortunately, SPC processed at 
600 ºC usually requires a long crystallization time of 20–60 h to ensure the formation of poly-Si films 
with a large grain size, making it unattractive for manufacturing [2]. Various measures [3]–[6] have been 
employed to shorten the crystallization time. Of these methods, RF hydrogen plasma treatment before 
crystallization can potentially introduce the least contamination to the film and significantly reduce the 
crystallization time to 4 h at 600 ºC. In addition, polycrystals made using furnace annealing exhibits high 
density in-grain defects due to low crystallization temperatures, which may deteriorate the electrical 
properties of the LTP poly-Si TFTs [2]. A hydrogenation process has been utilized to reduce the poly-Si 
film trap states to improve device performance [7], [8]. However, the poly-Si TFT characteristics after 
hydrogen passivation suffer from serious instability issues due to weak Si–H bonds, causing inferior 
reliability for product applications. It has been reported that NH3-plasma passivation after gate oxide 
deposition [9], [10] can improve the electrical properties of the poly-Si TFTs due to the passivation effect 
of hydrogen and nitrogen radicals. However, the scheme cannot enhance the crystallization of the 
amorphous Si film at the same time. In this letter, a new treatment that employs NH3-plasma pretreatment 
before SPC annealing is explored for the first time. The NH3 pretreatment is different from the 
NH3-plasma passivation and/or H2-plasma treatment and is a new method to decrease α-Si film 
crystallization time and simultaneously improve device performance and reliability. 
 
II. Experiment 
  Self-aligned LTP poly-Si TFTs were fabricated onto thermal-oxide-covered silicon wafers according to 
traditional procedures. A 115-nm-thick α-Si layer was first deposited using a SiH4 process at 250 ◦C. The 
films were exposed to a NH3-plasma treatment, followed by annealing at 600 ºC in N2 ambient. The 
NH3-plasma is performed in a high-density plasma chemical vapor deposition (HDP-CVD) system at a 
substrate temperature of 300 ºC and an exposure time of 30 min. The poly-Si film is then patterned into 
individual device islands. A 100-nm-thick HDP-CVD tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) oxide is then 
deposited at 300 ºC to serve as the gate insulator. Using the simple SiH4-based oxide as the gate dielectric 
will obtain a similar result to the TEOS oxide. A second poly-Si film is deposited and patterned to form 
the gate electrode. The source–drain and gate regions are then doped with phosphorus via ion 
implantation at a dose of 5 × 1015 cm−2. This is followed by excimer laser activation with an energy 
density of 200 mJ/cm2 at room temperature and with a pulse duration of 15 ns. The laser activation has 
less effect on the crystallization of α-Si due to the long-channel length of 10 μm [11]. A 500-nm-thick 
passivation oxide is then deposited at 300 ºC. Finally, contact holes are opened, and 500-nm-thick Al 
electrodes are deposited and patterned, followed by a sintering process in N2 ambient. The control 
 3
listed in Table I. The OFF-state current, which is strongly influenced by the density of strain-bond tail 
states, has a slow response to defect-state passivation. The ON-state current, which is related to the 
density of dangling bond midgap states, has a fast response to defect-state passivation [7], [8]. Thus, we 
presume that the short NH3-plasma pretreatment period causes the less improvement in the OFF-state 
current. In addition, the dissociated nitrogen atoms will impinge into the treated film to result in the 
increase of the carrier concentration, causing the increasing OFF-state resistive current. The similar 
observation can be found in the reported paper from Yang et al. [12]. Thus, the optimization in the 
pretreated period is required. The advanced studies will be in progressing. In addition, the inset in Fig. 1 
shows the crystallization time effect of the NH3-plasma pretreatment on the polysilicon film crystallinity. 
It is observed that the crystallization started to show saturation after about 4 h of furnace annealing. It is 
well known that crystallization from an amorphous phase into a polycrystalline phase using furnace 
annealing proceeds in two distinct processes, namely 1) nucleation and 2) grain growth. The rate-limiting 
step in the crystallization process is the nucleation rate because the activation energy for nucleation is 
about two times greater than that necessary for grain growth using low-temperature furnace annealing 
[13]. To reduce the long crystallization annealing time for α-Si films, it is necessary to reduce the 
nucleation incubation time. Pangal et al. reported that hydrogen plasma pretreatment produces hydrogen 
depletion at the surface of the treated films, resulting in the creation of seed nuclei and hence significantly 
decreases the crystallization time [5]. Srinivasan et al. reported that hydrogen is abstracted by the 
impinging H atoms, which interact with the silicon–hydrogen surface unit to form volatile H2 molecules 
[14]. Thus, we presume that NH3 plasma can produce hydrogen depletion in the treated α-Si film by the 
impinging of dissociated hydrogen radicals to cause the formation of seed nuclei, resulting in decreased  
 
 
Fig. 2. Changes in VTH as a function of the stress time for poly-Si TFTs with and without the NH3-plasma pretreatment 
under a hot-carrier stress of VDS = VGS = 25 V. The percentage shift in the VTH is defined ∆VTH(%) = [(VTH after stress 
− VTH before stress)/VTH before stress] × 100%. The inset shows the SIMS nitrogen depth profile for the 
NH3-plasma-pretreated amorphous-silicon/buffer-oxide system after a 600 ºC /4 h solid-phase crystallization. 
 5
in polycrystalline silicon,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 65, no. 24, pp. 3099–3101, Dec. 1994.  
[9] X. Zeng, X. W. Sun, J. Li, and J. K. O. Sin, “Improving reliability of poly-Si TFTs with channel layer and gate oxide 
passivated by NH3/N2O plasma,” Microelectron. Reliab., vol. 44, no. 3, pp. 435–442, Mar. 2004.  
[10] H. C. Cheng, F. S. Wang, and C. Y. Huang, “Effects of NH3 plasma passivation on n-channel polycrystalline silicon 
thin-film-transistors,” IEEE Trans. Electron Devices, vol. 44, no. 1, pp. 64–68, Jan. 1997. 
[11] C. L. Fan and T. H. Yang, “Effects of source–drain activation on channel length for excimer-laser- crystallized poly-Si 
thin-film-transistors,” Electrochem. Solid-State Lett., vol. 9, no. 2, pp. H8–H11, 2006. 
[12] C. K. Yang, T. F. Lei, and C. L. Lee, “Improved electrical characteristics of thin-film transistors fabricated on 
nitrogen-implanted polysilicon films,” in IEDMTech. Dig., 1994, pp. 505–508. 
[13] C. V. Thompson, “Secondary grain growth in thin films of semiconductors: Theoretical aspects,” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 58, 
no. 2, pp. 763–772, Jul. 1985. 
[14] E. Srinivasan and G. N. Parsons, “Hydrogen elimination and phase transitions in pulsed-gas plasma deposition of 
amorphous and microcrystalline silicon,” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 81, no. 6, pp. 2847–2855, Mar. 1997. 
[15] M. Hack, A. G. Lewis, and I. W. Wu, “Physical models for degradation effects in polysilicon thin-film transistors,” IEEE 
Trans. Electron Devices, vol. 40, no. 5, pp. 890–897, May 1993. 
[16] A. G. Lewis, I. W. Wu, T. Y. Huang, M. Koyanagi, A. Chiang, and R. H. Bruce, “Small geometry effects in n- and p- 
channel polysilicon thin film transistors,” in IEDMTech. Dig., 1988, pp. 260–263. 
 
VI. 計畫成果自評 
本計畫利用電漿前處理技術降低非晶矽薄膜再結晶時間，提高LTP SPC poly-Si TFTs元件效能
並改善元件可靠度，與原計畫目的相符、並達成預期目標。利用此電漿前置處理技術除可提高元件
性能外，並可縮短製程時間，降低成本，提昇產業競爭力，為一值得推廣與運用之技術，目前已將
本計劃研究成果投稿至國際期刊與國際性會議各兩篇，並申請專利中。
