 
 
 
 
the stored image was released by illuminating the crystal with the reference light, and the released image was imaged at 
the CCD plane with L2. In this series of experiments, the Chinese character “展” was chosen as the input pattern. The 
total recording time was 30 minutes but we interrupted the recording at every 3 minutes to examine the recording result.  
In other words, we examined the reconstructed images at every 3 minutes. The experimental results are shown in Figs. 2a 
to 2j. It can be seen in this series of photos that the reconstructed images are still weak even after 30 minutes recording, 
implying the recording was not very efficient or the diffraction efficiency of the recorded grating was low. 
We performed the same series of experiments with the phase object of the same pattern obtained by IFTA.        
Fig. 3(a) is the amplitude object of the Chinese character “展” and Fig. 3(b) is the corresponding phase object obtained 
with IFTA.  The experimental layout for the recording was the same as before.  However, the setup for the capturing of 
the reconstructed image was changed since the phase object here is the Fourier transform of the corresponding  
amplitude object and we could not just keep the CCD plane in the image plane of the crystal plane with respect to L2 as 
before.  Accordingly, we set L2 to image the back focal plane of L1 to the CCD plane (The layout of this part is outlined 
in Fig. 4).  The experimental results are shown in Figs. 5a to 5j.  It is seen in this series of results that the reconstructed 
image became quite clear and bright after only 12 minutes recording.      
Fig. 1. Experimental setup. HW, half wave plate; PBS, polarizing beam splitter; M, mirror; S.F, spatial filter; L, 
collimating lens; A, iris; L1-L3, lenses, focal lengths of L1-L3 in unit of mm are 125, 125, and 40, respectively; , 
optic axis; SLM, spatial light modulator; d1+d2=d3=250mm. 
cˆ
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Photos of reconstructed images during the recording of an amplitude-pattern . (a-j) the total recording time 
was 30 minutes with interruption at every three minutes. 
 
 
 
 
 We also quantitatively compare the diffraction efficiencies between the experiments of the two types of 
recordings. Here the diffraction efficiency is defined as the ratio of the power of the effective reconstructed light to the 
power of incident reading light. The effective reconstructed light means that the scattered light, the dc-term, and all high-
order diffraction lights are excluded. The dependence of diffraction efficiency with recording time for each kind of 
object is shown in Fig. 6. The diffraction efficiency of the phase-pattern recording increases sooner than that of the 
amplitude-pattern recording. The recording of phase pattern also exhibits higher maximum diffraction efficiency.   
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
 
 
D
iff
ia
ct
io
n 
ef
fic
ie
nc
y 
(%
)
Recording time (min)
 phase pattern
 amplitude pattern
 
Fig. 6. The time dependence of diffraction efficiency. The points represented by ■ are obtained from  phase-pattern 
recording, while those points represented by  ○ are taken from the corresponding  amplitude-pattern recording. 
 
In this part of the report, we demonstrate the non-uniform erasure effect that results from the non-uniformity of the 
object light in the crystal plane. This fact occurs in the process of a multiplexing storage of amplitude objects. In                      
this kind of storing process, the non-uniform object light in the later recordings would non-uniformly erase the gratings 
which have been built in the previous recordings. The whole result would result in a decline of the image fidelity. Here 
we used a plane wave as the object light to demonstrate this effect. We first recorded a grating by two plane waves with 
equal intensity in a symmetric transmission-type holographic geometry. We used a solid state laser operated in 532 nm 
as the light source. The angle between two interference beams was 16°, and the intensity of each beam was 19 mW/cm2. 
The crystal we used was an x-cut LiNbO3 crystal doped with 0.1 % iron. The size of the crystal is 20 x 20 x 2 mm3, and 
the diameter of the light spot in the crystal is 8 mm. In the first experiment, we kept on building gratings for 25 minutes, 
and then they were erased with the one of the original recording beam.  In the erasing, the erasing beam was blocked at 
an interval of every three minutes. During these interruptions, we turned on the other original recording beam again to 
read the gratings so that the first recording beam was reconstructed. The intensity distribution of this reconstructed 
recording beam behind the crystal was then examined with a CCD camera and then analyzed.  The analysis includes the 
calculation of the average intensity a and its standard deviation  of the intensity distribution across the plane just 
mentioned. We want to mention that the above set of experiments is used to simulate the erasing effect of phase objects 
in a multiplexing storage.   
To simulate the erasing effect of amplitude objects in a multiplexing storage system, we performed another set of 
experiments in which all the parameters and processes were the same as that in the first set of experiments except the 
erasing condition was different. In the erasing process, we blocked off half of the erasing beam in area. The average 
intensity and standard deviation of intensity distribution across the CCD plane was again calculated. 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-008-051 
計畫名稱 亂相編碼全像儲存之解碼以及振幅式圖形和相位式圖形在儲存過程中及其結果之比較 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
游漢輝  國立中央大學光電系 
會議時間地點 2008 年 9 月 19 日  De Monfort University, Leicester, Britain 
會議名稱 Holography in the Modern Museum 
發表論文題目 無 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 本會議為 Display Holography 的一環，大約每兩年召開一次，本次之主題為 Display 
Holography — especially in Museum。由英國皇家攝影學會轄下之全像分會主辦。本次會
議雖然名稱為關於博物館的收藏品的全像片製作問題和展示問題，但實際上其內容涵蓋
所有有關物品的全像片的製作和展示的各種問題，只是特別強調博物館的收藏品而已。
由於其主題為關於博物館的收藏品的全像片的製作，所以會議內容特別強調製作出來的
全像片的保真性（Fidelity），這保真性包含色彩方面的保真性，像差的減低以及大角度的
視角。這都是些難度很高的問題。 
 在本次會議中共有十場演講，每場大約 30 分鐘，內容包括純粹從科學和技術觀點去
談論製作真實彩色全像片（True color hologram）的問題，這個講題分別由兩位講者來談
論，第一位為 Prof. Huns Bjelkhagen，第二位為 Yves Gentet。另外的一個純粹科技性題目
則是由 John Welster 所討論的利用全像技術去查察油畫以及其他古物內裡的損傷，這基本
上就是一種全像干涉術的應用。除了上述的科學性問題外，也有講者（Andrew Pepper）
探討視覺問題。換句話說，他探討全像片所產生的影像在觀看者眼中看來到底有多真實。
由於筆者對這方面事情的背景知識比較薄弱，所以並不很了解講者的論據。不過，基本
上感覺他是在對從事製作展示式全像片的科學家提出另外一些考量，使得他們所製作出
來的全像片所產生的像更具真實感。 
 另外還有一些由純粹藝術家主講的話題以及一場由一博物館館長講述之他對全像展
