  
Hsuan-Chun Liao , and Chau-Yun Hsu 
Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering 
Tatung University, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C 
L001621@ms5.hinet.net , cyhsu@ttu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract —The primary disadvantage of OFDM systems is 
their high peak-to-average power ratio. The use of precoding 
transform kernels, which reduce the data correlation of the 
signal constellation in multiple OFDM symbols, verifies the 
effectiveness of the PAPR reduction by utilizing null 
subcarriers. But the use of null subcarriers promotes out-of-
band power emission and reduces the transmission rate. This 
investigation proposes a modified precoding kernel that 
provides a flexible method to reduce PAPR and out-of-band 
power emission without using null subcarriers. Simulation 
results show that the proposed scheme achieves a beneficial 
trade-off between the reduction of PAPR and OOB power 
emissions in OFDM systems.1 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) is a 
multicarrier modulation approach extensively utilized in 
communication systems, including wireless LANs (IEEE 
802.11a/g/n standard), Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB), 
Digital Audio Broadcasting (DAB), and the popular 
Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access 
(WiMAX), which is based on the IEEE 802.16 standard. By 
splitting a high-bit-rate data stream into parallel low bit-rate 
data streams, which are transmitted simultaneously at 
different frequencies to a receiver, OFDM increases the 
symbol duration of each stream such that the delay spread is 
only a small fraction of the symbol duration. Consequently, 
OFDM systems transmit data at high speeds and effectively 
resist the frequency-selective fading. One major drawback 
of OFDM systems is that the OFDM signal can produce a 
high peak-to-average power ratio (PAPR) at the transmitter. 
An OFDM signal comprises several independently 
modulated subcarriers. Theoretically, when N modulated 
subcarriers are added in phase, the peak power is N times 
the average power of the OFDM signal. A high PAPR cause 
the degradation in analog part of the transmitter, therefore 
induce in-band distortion, which degrades system 
performance, and produces out-of-band emission, which 
causes interference in adjacent channels. High out-of-band 
(OOB) power emission is another potential shortcoming of 
 
1 This work was supported in part by the NSC under Grant No. 99-2221-
E-036-015.  
 
OFDM systems. Although the OFDM system has high 
spectral efficiency, it suffers from high OOB power 
emission caused by the sidelobes of the subcarriers, which 
may interfere with the transmissions in adjacent frequency 
bands. 
The precoding scheme [1] that employs the precoding 
transform kernel to reduce the PAPR can be treated as a pre-
process that is applied between serial-to-parallel conversion 
and the inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) process. An 
OFDM transmitter with precoding is depicted in Fig.1. 
Suppose input data stream have l  block, and each block 
size is K . The input data stream is modulated to symbol 
stream  )( 1-K)(2)(1)(0 ,,, llll cccc  , by signal constellation 
mapping, such as Quadrature-Amplitude-Modulation 
(QAM). After serial-to-parallel conversion, the modulated 
data is transferred to  T)( 1-K)(2)(1)(0)( ,,, lllll ccccc  , where 
 T  denotes the transpose. The precoding scheme utilizes 
precoding transformation kernel P for reduction of PAPR, 
and the column vector  Tlllll ddddd )( 1-L)(2)(1)(0)( ,,,   
generated via precoding scheme is expressed as 
)(
1
)(
1 P
l
KxLxK
l
Lx cd  , where  P represents a predefined 
precoding matrix and   represents element-wise 
multiplication. The precoding matrix is an orthogonal matrix 
that satisfies the relationship as IH PP , where I  is the 
KK  identity matrix, and HP is the Hermitian transpose 
of matrix P . 
 
Fig. 1  Block diagram of the precoding scheme in the OFDM 
transmitter. 
 
The precoding matrix P , which has L  rows and 
K columns, is defined as 
Reduction of the Peak-to-Average Power Ratio and Out-of-Band 
Power Emission Using a Modified Precoding Scheme in OFDM 
Systems 
  
Fig. 2a  First column P’i,0  in the proposed modified precoding matrix 
with C=0.03 and Ns=96 (α=0). 
 
Fig. 2c  First column P’i,0  in the proposed modified precoding matrix 
with C=0.03 and Ns=48 (α=50%). 
 
III. SIMULATION RESULTS 
To assess the performance of reduction in the PAPR and 
OOB power emission, a fixed-WiMAX system is utilized 
for simulations. The mandatory constellations are QPSK, 16 
QAM, and 64 QAM and are defined in the IEEE 802.16d 
standard. This simulation uses QPSK for constellation 
mapping.  To evaluate the performance of the PAPR 
reduction based on Fig. 1 , a block size K  in one OFDM 
symbol of fixed-WiMAX  equals to 192, that is K=192 data 
subcarriers. Figures 3a-3d plot the complementary 
cumulative distribution function (CCDF), which is defined 
as the probability that the PAPR exceeds a certain threshold 
PAPR0 for various modified precoding matrices with 
different sN  and C  values. Reduction of the PAPR means 
the opportunities for the transmission of OFDM peak signals 
are reduced, and the effect of power amplifiers, which have 
a finite dynamic range and limit the peak amplitude of the 
OFDM signal, does not take into consideration. 
Figures 3a-3d show the analysis of operation when using 
to sN and C to minimize the PAPR.  The mixed 
experimental results for the selected sN and C  indicate that 
opportunities for high PAPR signals are significantly 
reduced without using additional subcarriers. Fig. 3a and 3b 
demonstrate that a small C  can provides more PAPR 
reduction with a stationary sN . For the same level of value 
C  (Figs. 3c and 3d), a small  sN  reduced the PAPR better 
than a large sN . To further assess the relative contributions 
of these variables, analytical results (Figs. 3c and 3d) show 
that C educed the PAPR reduction more than sN . In other 
words, C can be first used in major regulation to reduce the 
PAPR, and sN   then achieves a continuous and subtle 
PAPR reduction. 
 
Fig. 3a  Complementary distribution function of the PAPR of QPSK-
OFDM signals using the modified precoding matrix with 
K=192,Ns=96(α=0%) for various values of C. 
 
Fig. 3b  Complementary distribution function of the PAPR of QPSK-
OFDM signals using the modified precoding matrices with K=192 and 
Ns=48(α=50%) for various values of C. 
 
Fig. 3c  Complementary distribution function of the PAPR of QPSK-
OFDM signals using the modified precoding matrices with K=192 and 
C=0.03 for various Ns values. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 在正交分頻多工系統中利用改良型預先編碼轉換核心來低峰值對均值功率比
之研究
計畫主持人: 許超雲
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-036-015- 學門領域: 通訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
