stable fixation for each vertebral segment, but did 
not address the reduction of coronal spinal 
deformities. The development of multiple segmental 
hook and rod system by Cotrel and Dubousset was a 
milestone in scoliosis surgery. The 
Cotrel-Doubousset device arrowed multiple fixation 
points using hooks on both the concave and convex 
sides of a spinal deformity to be attached to rigid 
rods. By rotating the rods, the thoracic convex curve 
could be shifted into a thoracic kyhosis as in normal 
spine; the lumbar concave curve could be shifted 
into a lumbar lordosis. Lamina hook can have either 
upward or downward (caudally) force in thoracic 
and lumbar spine, but lamina hook has to go into the 
neural canal for anchoring on the lamina. Suk started 
to use thoracic pedicle screw for scoliosis correction 
since 1991 and reported the highest curve 
correctivity. In spine the encouraging result, the use 
of thoracic screws for scoliosis has not been 
extendedly accepted. The choice of which implant to 
use in a given case has often been based solely on a 
surgeon’s experience and not the biomechanical 
features and advantages of each device.  
 
Methods 
Thirty-six (36) fresh low thoracic spines of 
porcine were used and evenly assigned into three 
groups (12 in each group) by different 
configurations of fixation: (1) pedicle screws; (2) 
lamina hook; and (3) combination of screw and 
lamina hook. Fig. 1. shows the pedicle screw, lamina 
hook and rods (Mossmiami,  Depuy,  USA) used 
in current study, and Fig. 2 shows the three different 
combinations of screws and hooks for spinal 
instrumentation. 
The implantation of the fixation screws were carried 
out under direct visualization radiologically. 
Radiological examinations were also done at the 
same time to check for the implanted screws’ depth 
and position in all specimens. An angled jig device 
was used to ensure the accuracy of the placement of 
the fixation screws. Axial pull-out tests in a 
backward direction normal to that of the rods were 
performed using the Material Testing System 
(Bionix 858, MTS Corp., MN, USA). 
Custom-designed grip was secured to the actuator on 
the MTS machine. The grip consists of a universal 
ball-and-socket joint connected to a steel plate. The 
plate has four variable attachment holes to 
accommodate specimens of different dimensions, 
and it features four shoulder ball-and-socket joints 
that lead to four adjustable steel turnbuckles. The 
turnbuckles have rotating eyebolts on either end, 
which attach directly to the four exposed ends of the 
spinal rods extending from each of the constructs. 
The anterior portion for both segments of the spinal 
construct is horizontally embeded in the low-melting 
Zn alloy (Fig. 3). After the specimens are positioned, 
the external force was be applied at a constant 
loading rate of 20 N per second. The relation 
between force and displacement was recorded at an 
increment of 50 N by the Material Testing System 
Teststar-? software. To evaluate the performance 
of various combinations of screw and hook on the 
stability of spinal construct, the magnitude of force 
at failure for each individual specimen was selected 
for comparison. 
 
Results 
   The Spinal construct instrumented with screw 
and with a combination of screw and hook was 
shown in Fig. 4, whereas the corresponding 
specimens after pullout test were shown in Fig. 5. In 
screw group, the screws were pulled out without 
failure of spinal construct. In combination group, 
however, the spinal construct failure with lamina 
fracture. The measured value of pullout force for 
screw, hook and combination groups were 1329±381, 
943±259 and 1065±297 Newtons, respectively 
(Table 1 and Fig. 6). The results indicated that the 
pullout force for pedicle screws group was 
significantly greater than those of hook and 
combination groups (p<0.05). However, no 
significant difference was found between hook and 
combination groups (p>0.05). 
 
Discussion 
In this study, we conducted a biomechanical 
comparison of these devices implanted with the 
following three different configurations: (1) pedicle 
screws; (2) lamina hook; and (3) combination of 
screw and lamina hook. (Fig. 2).  
Advantage and disadvantage of hook 
 Because of early application of hooks for 
treating scoliosis in history, most surgeons are 
familiar with this technique. There are hooks of 
standard size for adolescent and there are also hooks 
of miniature size for very small child (body weight < 
30 kg). However there are potential disadvantages: 
(1) The tip of lamina hook has to go into neural 
canal, with potential injury to the spinal cord. (2) 
Hooks engage only the posterior elements instead of 
the anterior and medial column.  
Advantage and disadvantage of screw 
 
Fig 1. The screws, hooks and rods. (Mossmiami, Depuy, 
USA)  
 
 
Fig. 2 Three combinations of screws and hooks 
instrumented with various configurations. (a) pedicle 
screw; (b) lamina hook; and (c) screw-lamina hook. 
 
 
Fig 3. The experimental setup of pull-out test in direction 
normal to the rods. The universal plate has four variable 
attachment holes to accommodate specimens of different 
dimensions, and it features four shoulder ball-and-socket 
joints that lead to four adjustable steel turnbuckles. The 
turnbuckles have rotating eyebolts on either end, which 
attach directly to the four exposed ends of the spinal rods 
extending from each of the constructs. The anterior 
portion for both segments of the spinal construct is 
horizontally embeded in the low-melting Zn alloy. Lateral 
bending test. 
 
 
Fig. 4 Spinal constructs instrumented with pedicle screw 
(left) and a combination of screw and hook (right). (a) 
posterior view; (b) superior view. 
 
 
Fig 5. The spinal constructs after pullout test. (a). Spinal 
construct with pedicle screw instrumentation. The screws 
were pulled out without failure of spinal construct. (b) 
Spinal construct with a combination of pedicle screw and 
lamina hook. The spinal construct failure with lamina 
fracture. 
 
 
Fig 6. Measured pullout force for the screw, hook and 
combination groups. The pullout force for screws group 
was significantly greater than those of hook and 
combination groups (p<0.05). However, no significant 
difference was found between hook and combination 
groups (p>0.05). 
文中，實際的實驗量測及有限元素分析約各占半數。其中，在實際量測方面，由於個人實驗
所用的主要量測設備 MTS Bionix 858 系統，現階段屬於先進之世界級量測系統，因此，若相
較於其他論文，所獲結果之可靠性將有過之而無不及。此外，在有限元素分析方面，個人亦
參與了關於脊椎植入物、醫學影像建模與數值模擬相關的討論。目前有關脊椎植入物的研究
發展趨勢，已經從傳統的融合固定探討至可提供部分運動的動態非融合植入物，如人工椎間
盤、Dynesis 等植入物，希望經由能在手術後維持脊椎運動能力的概念，以減少鄰近端椎間盤
加速退化的問題。而在針對醫學影像建模與有限元素分析的領域方面(image-based anatomical 
modeling for CAD/FEA application)就有多個場次專門探討此研究，且場場爆滿，可見目前世
界各國對此項領域非常重視，也代表這是一個生物力學模擬領域的趨勢。即希望經由直接的
讀取醫學影像後直接建立有限元素模型，甚至可以將植入物從 CAD 直接輸入與醫學影像合
併，以做出最接近真實病患的分析。且會場也有多家相關軟體廠商參展。在數值模擬方面，
可以發現研討會針對血管流固耦合(FSI)的領域有多個場次特別討論此問題，本人認為經由商
用模擬軟體與電腦運算速度的快速發展，此領域已經從傳統的流固分開兩階段模擬(one-way)
進入流固交互疊代(two-way)的真實流固耦合，相信其熱度仍會持續一段時間。 
建議事項: 
綜上所述，為有效提升國內學術研究品質，並瞭解先進國家相關之研發趨勢，則參與類
似國際性學術會議，有絕對之必要性。因此，爾後應更加強鼓勵並補助相關研究人員，多參
與類似之國際性學術會議。 
 
