 1
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
高階光子技術發展與應用 
 
 計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC97－2218－E－011－007－MY3 
執行期間：2008 年 08 月 01 日至 2011 年 10 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立台灣科技大學電子工程系 
 
計畫主持人：Gerd Keiser 
 
 
 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
■赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國 101 年 01 月 15 日 
附件一 
 3
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
1. Eleven papers were published in SCI journals, 3 manuscripts submitted to SCI journals are 
under review, and 17 conference papers were presented. 
2. Two Taiwan and two US patent applications were submitted and are pending. The patents 
describe a novel efficient and effective method for fault-detection and fault-isolation methods 
for WDM networks in intelligent buildings. This is also of importance to fiber-to-the-premises 
(FTTP) access networks for which Taiwan is designing and manufacturing a series of photonic 
components. 
3. In addition, an evaluation was made of FTTP network connector reliability when they are 
exposed to acid rain conditions and another evaluation examined practical issues related to 
mating glass and plastic fibers for in-building network applications. The evaluation included 
connectors made in Taiwan and two other countries. 
4. Many photonic components developed over the past two decades by the telecom industry can be 
applied in biophotonics and biomedical systems for healthcare diagnosis, medical light therapy, 
and imaging, and for life sciences research. Work in this area examined how such optical 
components being made in Taiwan can be applied in biophotonics, medical research, and 
healthcare systems that are widely used in telecom networks.  
5. In the last few years, numerous efforts have been devoted to the study of nanostructured 
materials. The remarkable electronic, photonic, chemical, and mechanical properties of these 
materials have been explored for developing a variety of nano-devices and nano-systems that 
can be used in bio-sensing, photovoltaic, and optoelectronic applications. Thus, because this is a 
rapidly growing industry in Taiwan, some of the NSC project team members supported the 
nanosciences group at NTUST in studies on nanostructures. 
6. As part of the task devoted to designing unique LED light-distributing lenses, an 
illumination-pattern and spectral measurement system was purchased and set up for verifying 
wavelength-dependent light distribution patterns from novel LED lens designs. These lens 
designs are of importance to the growing Taiwan LED manufacturing industry. In addition, the 
associated measurement system will be available for further investigations by component design 
groups. 
7. Besides having significant benefits to different segments of the telecom industry in Taiwan and 
elsewhere, the studies done on this NSC project also benefited engineering students. The 
students participating in the project gained valuable experience in learning different aspects of 
telecom networks. These educational aspects will help them in a career path in the telecom and 
biophotonics industries. 
 
 
 
 
 5
VIII.  
Abstract: 
This project investigated advanced photonic technology developments and their applications to improve 
existing enterprises and to advance emerging industries that are being researched and implemented worldwide. 
In part, this work examined the characteristics and functions of some passive and active optical components 
being made in Taiwan. The results of this NSC project show how these and other devices can be applied in 
areas such as integrated tenant services for intelligent buildings, radio-over-fiber networks, highly efficient 
fault detection and isolation methods for telecom networks, and biophotonics instruments for life sciences and 
healthcare.  
 
Keywords: WDM PON, intelligent building, healthcare monitoring, biophotonics, OCT coupler, connector 
reliability, TIR lens, nanostructures 
 
Section I: Introduction  
 
The past years have seen rapid advances and applications of optical fiber communications technology 
to satisfy the ever-growing demands of bandwidth hungry telecom equipment. This scenario has resulted in 
the development of a wide range of photonic devices ranging from simple to highly sophisticated designs for 
the telecom industry.  
To keep up with new bandwidth demands from personal communication and entertainment devices 
such as high-end smart phones, tablet computers, and Internet-enabled TVs, new photonics components and 
novel techniques for their application are required to increase the capacity and the signal fidelity on optical 
fiber lines. In particular, novel transmission and monitoring methods are needed in fiber-to-the-premises 
(FTTP) access networks that are based on wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM) technology. Thus, part of 
this NSC project on Advanced Photonic Devices addresses this issue. Included in that study are tests of 
performance enhancement methods, development of tunable fiber lasers, development of novel fault-detection 
and fault-isolation methods for WDM networks in intelligent buildings, and analyses of energy consumptions 
in access and home networks. In addition, an evaluation was made of FTTP network connector reliability 
when they are exposed to acid rain conditions and another evaluation examined practical issues related to 
mating glass and plastic fibers for in-building network applications. 
The extensive worldwide activities involved with developing optical fiber telecommunication systems 
over the past two decades has resulted in a large portfolio of passive and active optical components. Many of 
these components can be applied in biophotonics and biomedical systems for healthcare diagnosis, medical 
light therapy, and imaging, and for life sciences research. Work in this area on this NSC project examined the 
characteristics and functions of a variety of optical components being made in Taiwan that are widely used in 
telecommunication networks. The goal is to show how these devices can be applied in biophotonics, medical 
research, and healthcare systems and how Taiwan manufacturers and applications organizations can benefit 
from new worldwide market opportunities. 
The manufacture of light emitting diodes (LEDs) is a major business in Taiwan. For lower power 
consumption, LEDs are highly attractive for many new green technology applications, and they also have the 
advantages of good reliability, long lifetimes, and a variety of color selections. Therefore, they can be applied 
 7
ii. The work resulted in four conference papers. An SCI journal paper is in preparation. 
3. Improvements in the performance of optical fiber networks: This task provided support to the optical 
communication network group to realize improvements in the performance of WDM-PONs. The 
following research was pursued:  
i. A low-cost passive optical network scheme for intelligent buildings located in areas having difficulty 
with wireless signal reception 
ii. A scheme to stabilize the optical channel frequency and enhance bidirectional transmission.  
iii. Energy consumption analyses in hybrid access and home networking networks.  
iv. The work resulted in three conference papers and three SCI journal papers. Another SCI journal 
paper has been submitted. 
4. Corrosion effects of acid rain on outdoor optical patch cord connectors:  
i. This task examined the degradation of optical fiber connectors when they are exposed to acid rain. 
This is especially important for outdoor links such as are found in drop cables for access networks. 
The results will help manufacturers in Taiwan understand the importance of long-term 
environmental effects on photonics components used for outdoor telecom equipment. 
ii. The work resulted in two conference papers. An SCI journal paper is in preparation. 
5. Use of photonic devices for in-home healthcare monitoring:  
i. Because the percentage of elderly people of Taiwan and many other countries is continuously 
increasing, an important factor is how to remotely monitor the wellbeing of elderly and disabled 
people in their homes. To address this issue, this task examined inexpensive methods for photonic 
and wireless home healthcare monitoring. 
ii. The work resulted in three conference papers. 
6. Tunable erbium-doped fiber ring lasers for a WDM access network: This task provided support to the 
optical fiber components group. The following research was pursued:  
i. A widely wavelength-tunable erbium-doped-fiber laser located at a central office was investigated 
for the bidirectional high-speed performance testing of WDM access networks in which 
injection-locked Fabry-Perot laser diodes located at optical network units are used for upstream 
transmissions.  
ii. We investigated a stable, wideband, and tunable directly modulated fiber ring laser by using a 
reflective semiconductor optical amplifier and an optical tunable filter. 
iii. The work resulted in one conference paper and three SCI journal papers. 
7. Support of studies on nanostructures:  
i. Pattern growth and characteristics of flower-like RuO2 nanostructures 
ii. Effect of nanoscale ripples on the formation of ZnO quantum dots 
iii. The work resulted in two SCI journal papers. 
8. Practical applications of indoor optical fiber cables:  
i. The extension of optical links deeper into homes and buildings is putting an emphasis on coupling 
both plastic and glass multimode indoors fibers in a low-cost low-loss manner. This task checked the 
statistics of connecting a variety of such fibers to get an idea of what can be expected in a real-world 
environment.  
ii. The work resulted in one conference paper. 
 9
troubleshooting signal an inexpensive single-wavelength C-band OTDR was used. In addition, this work 
concentrates on the physical-layer functions of the monitoring and trouble-shooting method, which is the novel 
aspect of this concept. The higher-level functions needed for processing acknowledgements from users and for 
enabling the OTDR fault-locating function are for future investigation. The design is readily applicable to a 
localized WDM passive optical network (PON), such as in a campus environment or in a large multiple-tenant 
building, where local power exists for operating the optical amplifiers and the low power consuming switch 
modules used in this concept. If desired, the need for local power can be eliminated through the use of a remote 
powering scheme. 
The main features of this status-monitoring and fault-diagnosis structure include: 
(1) Real-time remote monitoring and fault diagnosis from a CO working in parallel with the user traffic  
(2) Continuous monitoring on functioning lines while failed lines are being diagnosed  
(3) Independently operating the monitoring signals and the fault-diagnosing signals  
(4) Expandable monitoring and fault diagnosis in which more wavelengths can be assigned to additional 
users 
(5) Amplification of the traffic and monitoring signals to get a larger power budget for possible usage in an 
extended WDM PON 
(6) A fault diagnosis system in which the OTDR is used only when a link fault occurs. 
 
B. System operation concept 
Fig. 1 illustrates the overall system concept. A single bidirectional optical fiber interconnects a set of N optical 
transceivers (TX/RX) in a central office with a set of N optical network units (ONUs) at user locations in an 
intelligent building. The remote node (RN) can be located within the intelligent building. At the CO, the N 
downstream traffic signals (designated by λD1,…,λDN) and a network-status monitoring wavelength λDM are 
combined onto a fiber using an arrayed waveguide grating (AWG) designated by AWG1.  
 
 
Figure 1. Top-level concept of the status-monitoring and fault-diagnosis method. 
 
Upon arriving at the RN at point 1, these signals pass through the traffic and monitoring-signal router (TMR) 
and are demultiplexed at point 2 by another AWG designated by AWG2. The demultiplexer AWG2 distributes 
the individual traffic signals to the designated ONUs (point 5) and shunts the monitoring signal from point 3 to 
 11
C-band upstream traffic and monitoring signals originating at an ONU are combined with an optical coupler and 
are inserted onto the fiber line by means of the dichroic filter. 
 
Figure 3. ONU configuration for sending and receiving traffic and monitoring signals. 
 
In normal operation the downstream monitoring signal will send status-request messages continuously to all 
nodes of a building and will get acknowledgements from the upstream monitoring signal of all nodes as well. 
The system monitors all nodes simultaneously in real time. When one of the nodes fails, the system will set up 
an OTDR trace test to determine fault possibilities of the failed node. Because an OTDR trace is a physical test, 
only a single path is tested at one time. When a fault condition is reported to the CO, the monitoring signal 
transmitter at the CO starts sending a message to all ONUs. The wavelength λDM of the downstream L-band 
monitoring signal will follow the same path through the TMR module as the downstream information signal and 
will be demultiplexed to one port of AWG2, as shown by point 4 in Fig. 1. 
As Fig. 4 shows, the downstream monitoring signal coming from AWG2 enters an optical splitter at point 4 
in the SWA, which distributes the signal equally to each top port of the set of N 21 optical switches (OSW). 
Based on the ONU status information contained in the upstream monitoring signal, the SWA control algorithm 
decides on whether to select the downstream monitoring signal or the OTDR test signal to check each ONU. In 
a normal condition, the SWA switches are set to have all the ONUs receive the downstream monitoring signal. 
The ONUs take turns to send upstream acknowledgements in a time-division-multiplexed (TDM) mode. The 
speed of the upstream TDM-based monitoring signal is low compared to the traffic speed, for example, a 
10-Mb/s monitoring-signal rate is only 0.1 percent of a 10-Gb/s traffic rate. 
 
Figure 4. Configuration of the SWA at the RN. 
 13
determining the axial and transverse resolutions are decoupled. Whereas the transverse resolution is 
determined by the beam focusing capabilities of the optics, the axial resolution depends on the coherence 
length of the optical source. Light with a shorter coherence length (or broader spectral bandwidth) will yield a 
more precise axial resolution.  
A number of variations exist for implementing an OCT system. First, the Michelson interferometer can 
use either free-space optics or a single-mode 2x2 optical coupler. In terms of the detection method, the two 
main methods are time-domain and fourier-domain OCT. In this study we used an optical fiber coupler and a 
fourier-domain OCT setup. 
Because the fused-fiber optical coupler is a key component in an OCT setup, it is of interest to determine 
what effect any wavelength-dependent asymmetry in its operational characteristics has on the OCT system 
performance. Ideally the coupler should have a splitting ratio that is independent of wavelength. However, all 
optical fiber couplers have some variation in transmission loss as function of wavelength. Here a detailed 
simulation and experimental investigation was made to determine what effects the wavelength-dependent 
characteristics in different arms of an optical coupler have on the accuracy of OCT measurement. Of 
particular interest was the effect on OCT performance when interchanging the input arms of a 50/50 
splitting-ratio coupler that is designated as being symmetric. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Schematic of experimental setup of FDOCT system 
 
The experimental setup for frequency-domain OCT (FDOCT) is shown in Fig. 6. The output of the 
broadband super-luminescent-diode light source (SLD 1300 nm) is split into two beams by the 2x2 fiber 
coupler, and each beam is directed towards one arm of a Michelson interferometer. The end of one arm of the 
Michelson interferometer consists of a broadband fiber mirror and the sample of interest is at the end of the 
other arm. The reflected beams from the sample and the broadband mirror are collinearly combined by the 
fiber coupler and directed towards the optical spectrum analyzer (OSA) (Anritsu MS9710C). The detected 
output is the power spectrum resulting from the coherent interference between the two reflected signals. 
For the experimental setup shown in Fig. 6, we use a broadband SLD source with λ0 = 1300 nm and a 
full-width half-maximum (FWHM) of Δλ = 58 nm. The output power of the SLD source is 1mW. The sample 
used is a glass sample and is kept at a distance of 1 cm from the reference plane (i.e., z0 = 1 cm). The coupler 
used is a 1300-nm single-mode fiber (SMF) coupler. The interference signal is detected at the OSA. The 
resolution of the OSA is 1 nm. The SLD source has a Gaussian spectrum with maximum output power of 
-18.88 dBm at 1300 nm. 
 15
passive optical networks to stabilize the optical channel frequency and enhance bidirectional transmission. 
This is achieved by simply employing a single Fabry-Perot etalon at the optical line terminal rather than 
having one etalon at each optical network unit. Compared with the remodulation scheme that uses a 10-Gb/s 
optical signal with a 3-dB extinction ratio as a downstream optical signal and a seed light, our scheme shows 
improvements in power penalties greater than 1.8 dB and 1.4 dB for 10-Gb/s downstream and 1.25-Gb/s 
upstream signals, respectively, after transmission of 25 km at a bit-error-rate = 10-9. Moreover, a power 
penalty of only 0.5-dB is observed in comparison to the two 1.25-Gb/s upstream bit-error-rate results based on 
using a continuous-wave seed light and a data-erased seed light. 
 
4. Research Project Number 4: Corrosion effects of acid rain on outdoor optical patch cord connectors 
 
The rapidly growing worldwide demands for high-speed Internet access has resulted in a tremendous increase 
in the number of subscribers connected to optical access networks. For example, there were over 20 million 
fiber-to-the-premises (FTTP) subscribers in Japan by 2010. In FTTP installations a number of reliability 
questions arise, since the optical connectors attached to drop cables running to the user premises are exposed 
to harsher conditions than the more traditional use of connectors in stable and benign indoor environments. 
The long-term outdoor environmental effects on optical fiber connectors include conditions such as large 
temperature variations, water immersion, salt spray, and high humidity. Although a number of different 
optical connector designs exist for harsh outdoor field environments, such as for tactical military 
communication links, connections to remotely located antennas, and telecom networks, such components tend 
to be more costly than standard telecom connectors.  
Acid rain is a problem of current and future concern in the world. Acid rain affects human life in a 
variety of ways. Acidification of ground water and soil hampers the growth of plants and forests. In addition, 
acid rain also kills fish and damages buildings. Acid rain is caused by sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide 
(NOx) forming in precipitation. Rainwater in equilibrium with carbon dioxide (CO2) in air is slightly acidic, 
with a pH of 5.6, while neutral water exhibits a pH of 7.0. Typical pH values of acid precipitation caused by 
anthropogenic emissions may be in the range of 3.5–5.0. Figure 7 shows a 10-year analysis of acid rain pH 
value in selected cities in the USA, Japan, and Taiwan. 
 
Figure 7: Statistics of acid rain pH value in USA, Japan, and Taiwan (1998–2010). 
 17
Figure 9 shows the tip conditions for a connector before and after testing. In most cases, the patch cord 
connector had a dirtier tip shape after tests. As a result of water or rust chemicals getting into connectors, the 
insertion losses changed and were unstable because of dirtier tips. 
 
Figure 9: Comparison of connector tip conditions before and after 27 days of testing. 
Summary: For FTTP networks the outdoor use of optical fiber patch cords with attached connectors 
presents a new reliability challenge. In our experiments, we examined the effects of acid rain immersion tests 
on connector insertion loss and tip shape. The tests were performed on FC type connectors from multiple 
vendors. The results show the potential problems that may arise in the field if standard connectors are used. 
For connector reliability evaluation, we used accelerated immersion tests to simulate acid rain conditions. The 
time variation of the degree of corrosion damage on the connector results in rusting and a gradual increase of 
the insertion loss. Although connectors from some manufacturers showed stable optical performance during 
the tests, their reliability over time and under environmental stress remains a major concern, since some 
connectors failed after the tests. Thus, although the level of performance available today appears to be 
sufficient for applications dealing with controlled environments, further improvements are necessary for 
outdoor applications. 
 
 
5. Research Project Number 5: Use of photonic devices for in-home healthcare monitoring 
 
Because the percentage of elderly people of Taiwan and many other countries is continuously increasing, an 
important factor in this scenario is how to remotely monitor the wellbeing of elderly and disabled people in 
their homes. To address this issue, this task examined inexpensive methods for photonic and wireless home 
healthcare monitoring. 
 
A. Telecom Device Applications to Biophotonic Systems: Huge research and development investments by 
telecom organizations have created a well established industry for fabricating highly reliable photonic 
components together with the capability to easily retool these components for specific applications. The 
strengths and unique capabilities of telecom photonic devices include component miniaturization, system 
integration into small packages (which house light sources, photodetectors, electronics, and fiber 
interconnects), high-speed lasers emitting extremely short pulses, high temporal resolutions, cost effectiveness, 
 19
C. Tunable C- and L-band erbium-doped fiber ring lasers for performance testing of a wavelength-division 
multiplexing access network with injection-locked Fabry-Perot laser diodes: A simple, continuously tunable 
dual-wavelength erbium-doped fiber ring laser (TDEDFL) structure for applications in high-speed 
communication systems was proposed and experimentally demonstrated. The dual-wavelength tuning range is 
58 nm covering both the C-band and L-band from 1547 to 1605 nm. We can obtain not only a 45% 
improvement over previously reported tuning ranges, but also can tune the wavelength of each lasing output 
independently. The power equalization of the dual-wavelength outputs is less than 1.5 dB. We obtain 
extremely stable power variation and wavelength fluctuation at room temperature. Using this fiber laser, a 
10-Gb/s data transmission over a 25-km single-mode fiber (SMF) can be made available with a power penalty 
of 0.5 dB is demonstrated with this laser. 
 
7. Research Project Number 7: Support of studies on nanostructures 
 
A. Pattern growth and characteristics of flower-like RuO2 nanostructures: This study involved the selective 
growth of flowerlike RuO2 nanostructures, synthesized by metal organic chemical vapor deposition 
(MOCVD), on Si substrates with pre-coating patterned Al and Fe catalyst films. To enhance the electron 
field-emission (FE) characteristics, the arrangement of the flower-like RuO2 nanostructures was a hexagonal 
configuration. The growth time of RuO2 nanostructures was adjusted to control the height of the RuO2 
nanostructures, thereby leading to the ratio of the distance between every adjacent pair of flower-like Ru O2 
nanostructures to the height of each RuO2 nanostructure to be fixed at about 2. The FE properties of the 
flower-like RuO2 nanostructures were characterized. The obtained threshold electric field (Eth) with a low 
value and a good FE stability demonstrated that the patterned flower-like RuO2 nanostructure is a promising 
material for FE applications. 
 
B.  Effect of nanoscale ripples on the formation of ZnO quantum dots: ZnO is one of the materials that 
exhibits the richest variety of nanostructures. Due to unique carrier confinement and surface effects, 
low-dimensional ZnO nanostructures including nanobelts, nanowires, and quantum dots (QDs) have gained 
tremendous attention and found crucial applications in bio-sensing, photovoltaic, and optoelectronic 
applications. Preparation of QDs on Si substrates without agglomeration and unwanted impurities are of 
special interests for in vivo bio-imaging applications. In this study nano-scale ripples on Si substrates were 
obtained by ion beam sputtering with beam energies ranging from 6 to 10 keV utilizing a capillary gas field 
ion source without beam scanning. The spatial wavelength of the nano-scale ripple increases as the ion beam 
energy increases, indicating that ion beam induced diffusion is the dominant diffusion mechanism for the 
formation of nano-scale ripples. ZnO QDs with diameters less than 20 nm and heights less than 4 nm can be 
prepared over the temperature range from 200-300 C.  
Compared with QDs deposited on Si substrates without nano-scale ripple, the ion-beam textured substrate 
provides a wider processing window, improved size homogeneity of the QDs, and increased QD density. The 
formation mechanism of Zn QDs on Si substrates with nano-scale ripple is likely due to the presence of 
multiatomic steps that act as nucleation sites which facilitates the formation of ZnO QDs. 
 
8. Research Project Number 8: Practical applications of indoor optical fiber cables 
 21
 
Figure 10. Configuration for characterizing link losses of individual and combinations of fibers; (a) Setup for 
measurement of POF segment losses, (b) Setup for measurement of OM3 segment losses, (c) Setup for 
measurement of paired fiber segment losses. 
 
 
To fully characterize the connection losses all the POF and OM3 segments, loss measurements were 
made in both directions. In order to keep track of the direction in which the losses were measured, one end of 
the fiber segment was labeled 1 and the other end was labeled 2. For the loss testing, first a fiber segment was 
inserted into the setup (with end 1 being the input) and its loss was measured (with end 2 being the output). 
This particular configuration was called “1 in, 2 out.” The segment was then disconnected and reinserted with 
the original input and output ends switched around. Because now the light is inserted into end 2 and the loss 
measured at end 1, this configuration was called “2 in, 1 out.” 
Following measurements of individual POF and OM3 fibers, paired combinations of POF segment D and 
the five OM3 segments were characterized. As shown in Fig. 10c, the setup consisted of POF segment D 
followed by a selected OM3 segment. A PC-to-SC adaptor was used to interconnect the POF and OM3 fibers. 
The OM3 fiber output end was attached directly to the power meter. A bar graph comparison chart of the 
measurement results is shown in Fig. 11. As can be seen, the losses are quite consistent at a specific operating 
wavelength. 
 
 23
emission patterns.  
For lower power consumption, light-emitting diodes (LEDs) are highly attractive for many new green 
technology applications, and they also have the advantages of good reliability, long lifetimes, and a variety of 
color selections. Therefore, they can be applied widely to areas such as spotlights, automobile taillights, 
indicators on equipment, or road lights. However, because light emitted from an LED spreads over a 
hemisphere of 2π steradians, collection optics are needed to capture and redistribute the LED light for specific 
application requirements. Since different products demand unique lighting distributions, great importance is 
placed on designing the LED light-distributing lens.  
 Currently, the most frequently used LED lens design is the total internal refractor (TIR) lens. This lens has 
an incident surface for capturing light and a TIR surface for controlling light deflection, thereby enabling light 
to follow a desired distribution.  
 Traditionally vector-based or integration approaches are used for TIR lens design. With these approaches 
an interpolation method is used to connect all incident points on the lens surface, so that the calculation of the 
lens curvature is complex. In order to simplify the calculation procedure, this study presented a new 
calculation method for TIR lens design, which is based on a simple geometric optics approach. 
 
Section IV. Publications and Patents 
 
A.   The following SCI journal papers were published: 
 
1. Z.-R. Lin, K.-C. Lai, C.-K. Liu, S. L. Lee, G. Keiser, H.-C. Chang, C.-L. Tseng, and J.-J. Jou, 
“A low-cost passive optical network for television broadcasting and high-speed bidirectional 
communications in intelligent buildings,” Journal of the Chinese Institute of Engineers, vol. 33, 
pp.707-716, 2010. (SCI) 
2. Z.-R. Lin, C.-K. Liu, Y.-J. Jhang, and G. Keiser, “Tunable directly modulated fiber ring laser 
using a reflective semiconductor optical amplifier for WDM access networks,” Optics Express, vol. 18, 
Issue 17, pp. 17610–17619, 2010. (SCI) 
3. Z.-R. Lin, C.-K. Liu, G. Keiser, C. Tseng, and C.-M. Chiu "Tunable C- and L-band 
erbium-doped fiber ring lasers for performance testing of a WDM access network with injection-locked 
Fabry-Perot laser diodes,” Optical Engineering, vol. 49, pp. 105006 (1-6), Oct. 2010. (SCI) 
4. K.- Y. Lee, C.-A. Chen, H.-B. Lian, Y.-M. Chen, Y.-S. Huang, and G. Keiser, “Pattern growth 
and field emission characteristics of flower-like RuO2 nanostructures,” Japanese J. Applied Physics, vol. 
49, pp. 105002 (1-4), 2010. (SCI) 
5. C.L. Yang, T.-L. Hsieh, S.-C. Lin, G. Keiser, and S.-L. Lee "Performance Enhancement 
Scheme for RSOA-Based WDM-PONs by Using a Single Fabry-Perot Etalon," Microwave and Optical 
Technology Letters, vol. 53, Issue 9, pp. 2166–2170, Sep. 2011. (SCI) 
6. L.-C. Chao, W.R. Chen, J.W. Chen, S.M. Lai, and G. Keiser, “Effect of nanoscale ripples on 
the formation of ZnO quantum dots,” J. Vacuum Science and Technology B, vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 051805-1 
to 051805-5, Sept/Oct 2011. (SCI) 
 25
7. G. Keiser, Workshop discussion paper, “In-Home Healthcare in Taiwan and Beyond,” 
Communications, Medicine, and Ethics Conference (COMET 2010), Boston, June 2010. 
8. Z.-R. Lin, G. Keiser, C.-K. Liu, K.-C. Lai, Y.-J. Jhang, and M.-J. Huang, “Effects of Acid 
Rain on Optical Fiber Patch Cord Connectors,” Poster paper, OptoElectronics and Communications 
Conference (OECC 2010), Sopporo, Japan, July 2010. 
9. G. Keiser, C.-L. Chang, Z.-R. Lin, and C.-K. Liu, “Status-monitoring and fault-diagnosis 
method for an intelligent building WDM network,” International Congress on Ultra Modern 
Telecommunications and Control Systems and Workshops (ICUMT) 2010, Moscow, 18 October 2010. 
10. O. Haobijam, G. Keiser, Y.-J. Hung, Z.-R. Lin, and J. W. Simatupang, “Optical Coupler 
Asymmetry Effects on OCT Measurements,” Intl. Conf. on Optics and Photonics in Taiwan (OPT) 2010, 
Tainan, Taiwan, December 2010. 
11. K.C. Feng, G. Keiser, and S.L. Lee, “Energy consumption in hybrid access and home 
networking network,” Intl. Conf. on Optics and Photonics in Taiwan (OPT) 2010, Tainan, Taiwan, 
December 2010. 
12. G. Keiser, “Telecom device applications to biophotonic systems,” Intl. Conf. on Optics and 
Photonics in Taiwan (OPT) 2010, Tainan, Taiwan, December 2010. 
13. G. Keiser, “Photonic Devices for In-Home Healthcare Monitoring,” Photonics Global 
Conference 2010, Singapore, December 2010. 
14. K.C. Feng, G. Keiser, and S.L. Lee, “Power consumption in hybrid access and home 
networking networks,” IEEE/OSA OFC-NFOEC, Los Angeles, March 2011. 
15. G. Keiser, Z.-R. Lin, and C.-K. Liu, “Acid Rain Corrosion Effects on Outdoor Optical Patch 
Cord Connectors,” Quality in Research (QiR) 2011 Conference, Bali, Indonesia, July 2011. 
16. L.T. Chen and G. Keiser, “Simplified Design of a Precise Freeform TIR Lens for LED 
Lighting Applications,” OptoElectronics and Communications Conference (OECC 2011), Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan, July 2011. 
17. G. Keiser, H.-Y. Liu, S.-H. Lu, and P. D. Pukhrambam, “Practical Aspects of Access Network 
Indoor Extensions Using Multimode Glass and Plastic Optical Fibers,” Fiber Optic Access Networks 
(FOAN) Workshop, Intl. Congress on Ultra Modern Telecommunications and Control Systems (ICUMT), 
Budapest, Hungary, October 2011. 
 
C.  Patent Applications 
 
Four patent applications filed with the Taiwan Patent Office and USA Patent Office in 2009 (Country Code: 
TW-Taiwan, US): 
  
Title: 具雙向性之多波長路由與放大模組 
TW Appl. No.: 098119806; Filed: 2009/06/12; Status: Pending 
  
Title: Bidirectional multiwavelength optical signal routing and amplification module 
US Appl. No.: 12/621,074; Filed: 2009/11/18; Status: Pending 
 27
photovoltaic, and optoelectronic applications. Thus, because this is a rapidly growing industry in Taiwan, 
some of the NSC project team members supported the nanosciences group at NTUST in studies on 
nanostructures. 
f) As part of the task devoted to designing unique LED light-distributing lenses, an illumination-pattern and 
spectral measurement system was purchased and set up for verifying wavelength-dependent light 
distribution patterns from novel LED lens designs. These lens designs are of importance to the growing 
Taiwan LED manufacturing industry. In addition, the associated measurement system will be available 
for further investigations by component design groups. 
g) Besides having significant benefits to different segments of the telecom industry in Taiwan and elsewhere, 
the studies done on this NSC project also benefited engineering students. The students participating in the 
project gained valuable experience in learning different aspects of telecom networks. These educational 
aspects will help them in a career path in the telecom and biophotonics industries. 
 
 
Section VI. Technology Promotion 
 
Technology developed Technology promotion 
Intelligent building status monitoring 
and fault isolation methodology 
2 conference papers, one SCI journal 
paper, and four patent applications 
Illustration of the wavelength-dependent 
characteristics of an optical coupler on 
the accuracy of measurements in OCT 
One conference paper was presented and 
an SCI journal paper is in preparation 
Examination of the degradation of 
optical fiber connectors when they are 
exposed to acid rain 
Two conference papers were presented 
and an SCI journal paper is in preparation 
Development of a tunable erbium-doped 
fiber ring lasers for a WDM access 
network 
One conference paper and three SCI 
journal papers 
Inexpensive methods for photonic and 
wireless home healthcare monitoring 
Three conference papers and one keynote 
talk were presented 
Devising techniques for making 
improvements in the performance of 
optical fiber networks 
Three conference papers and three SCI 
journal papers. Another SCI journal paper 
has been submitted 
Creation of a simple geometric optics 
approach that allows a precise freeform 
TIR lens to be easily and quickly 
designed, analyzed, and fabricated for 
collimated and uniformly distributed 
LED light emission patterns 
One conference paper was presented and 
two SCI journal papers are in preparation. 
A laboratory measurement system has 
been set up for use by university and 
industry researchers and developers of 
LEDs. 
 
Table 2. The promotion of R & D results  
 29
 Advanced photonic devices for remote health monitoring  
 Local networks (for example, within a home) that provide an interface between these devices and a 
healthcare-monitoring computer 
 Photonic communication network services for transmitting the health status of monitored people to 
healthcare facilities 
 Online education (or distance learning) for informing homebound recovering patients or elderly 
people in Taiwan about their health conditions.  
 
Whereas the technical solutions to these topics can be achieved in a number of ways, the national culture in 
certain countries may hinder widespread acceptance of the device or method. Research and application 
engineers must be aware of strong beliefs by the public in traditional oriental healthcare methods and a 
cautionary or even distrustful view of western-based solutions. As an example, the above item related to 
distance learning is particularly important but challenging. Models for such applications and trial systems are 
being developed and tested in western countries, such as Germany and the USA. However, the cultural 
acceptance of some aspects of distance learning and specifically how it applies to healthcare in Taiwan differs 
from the acceptance in the USA. The Knowledge Globalization 2009 Conference had a number of 
presentations related to such cultural concerns. Several key presentations are summarized below. 
 
(1) A highly useful paper “The Impact of National Culture on Distance Learning Effectiveness” by A. Gaspay 
and L. Legoretta (published in Journal of Knowledge Globalization, vol. 2, no. 1, Spring 2009) presents a 
comprehensive view of distance learning and its relation to national culture. The paper discusses the basic 
concepts of different learning models, for example, the distance learning application needs to consider 
whether factors such as grades, learning satisfaction, or skill development are most important to the learner. In 
addition, the presentation methodology needs to take into account whether the society is individualistically 
based (such as is prevalent in the USA) or whether the society is more collectivistic or family oriented. This is 
important when trying to adapt individualistic style western distance-learning home-healthcare modules to the 
more family-oriented Taiwan society.  
 In the western countries, disabled or elderly people who cannot take care of themselves anymore 
typically are moved to a nursing home or assisted-living facility. In those facilities these people have private 
or semiprivate rooms, and a staff of nurses, dieticians, and personal-assistance workers monitor and care for a 
group of residents in the facility. Thus, online training or distance learning modules can be presented 
relatively easily to such a group of staff members. The situation is quite different in Taiwan where infirm 
people typically are cared for at home by a non-skilled caretaker who often comes from another country. 
Since such caretakers are dispersed among the community, distance learning methods for them need to be 
approached differently from those of western societies. Therefore we will be studying the ideas presented in 
this paper to guide our distance-learning developments in order to make them acceptable to Asian societies. 
 
(2) A presentation by R. Sukanya et al. other addressed healthcare needs of adolescents, adults, and their 
families in different ethnic and immigrant communities in the US. Since such people often belong to a poorer 
disadvantaged class, the challenges of healthcare providers are how to connect with individuals and family 
members both in the context of therapeutic intervention and for prevention or outreach programs. The authors 
 31
NSC97-2218-E011-007-MY3. In addition, prior to the conference, on 14 September Gerd Keiser visited the 
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (BUPT) and the Beijing Jiaotong University (BJTU). 
The following paragraphs give some details of the trip. 
 
1.0 ICOCN 2009 Highlights 
The aim of ICOCN 2009 is the presentation of high-quality recent research results in the areas of optical 
devices, components, communications, transmission, network architectures, protocols, design, management 
and operation. The main goal of the conference is to bring together academics, scientists, professionals, 
engineers and industrialists who work in the field of optical communications and networks and to foster the 
exchange of information, ideas and experiences among them in this fast-moving and exciting field. ICOCN 
2009 has been held annually in Asia-Pacific region since 2002.  
In addition to the wide selection of contributed papers, there were 24 invited talks presented by 
researchers from Australia, China, Denmark, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, Sweden, and the 
United Kingdom. The topics ranged from photonic components to optical signal processing to fiber optic 
sensors.  
 
2.0 BUPT Visit Highlights 
Recently BUPT established the Key Laboratory of Information Photonics and Optical Communications 
(IPOC Lab). The facilities of the IPOC Lab are located in a new spacious multi-story building that is 
dedicated to photonics explorations. The major research areas of the IPOC Lab include (1) fundamental 
theories of information photonics, (2) new types of photonic materials and components; and (3) advanced 
optical communication systems and photonic networks. To encourage the exploratory aspects, striving spirit, 
and dedication needed in scientific research, the operating principles of the BUPT IPOC Lab have been set to 
be open, sharable, collaborative, and competitive. Accordingly, the IPOC Lab has provided Open Projects and 
has established Open Labs to attract excellent domestic and international researchers to work directly in the 
IPOC Lab or be involved on joint projects. 
 
3.0 BJTU Visit Highlights 
Similar to BUPT, the Beijing Jiaotong University has numerous spacious facilities for photonics research. 
For example, the Institute of Optoelectronic Technology (IOET) has 1500 square meters of space for 
laboratories, which contain advanced equipment. An interesting observation is that many of the devices used 
in the experiments (such as a larger selection of optical fiber polarization controllers) were custom-made by 
IOET researchers. Similarly, much of the equipment in the Key Laboratory of All Optical Network and 
Advanced Telecommunication Networks were custom-made by graduate students and researchers. This 
includes a special fiber preform manufacturing machine, a custom-built fiber drawing tower that can 
accommodate almost any type of standard and specialty fiber preform (such as various forms of photonic 
crystal fibers), and several racks of 40-Gb/s optical transmission equipment for long-haul experiments. The 
optical fiber group has made hundreds of kilometers of various types of fibers and also has fabricated a wide 
variety of fiber Bragg gratings for 40-Gb/s long-haul transmission experiments. 
 
 
 33
Concept for a WDM PON.” These talks were presented at the ICUMT “Fiber Optic Access Networks” 
(FOAN) Workshop and described research carried out on the NSC project NSC97-2218-E011-007-MY3. 
ICUMT is an annual international conference providing an open forum for researchers, engineers, 
network planners, and service providers in telecommunications. The presentations are targeted on newly 
emerging algorithms, systems, standards, services, and applications. The theme of the overall ICUMT-2010 
conference included topics such as (1) wireless access technologies and related systems and protocols, (2) 
green communications, (3) information and coding theory, (4) digital broadcasting technologies and services, 
(5) intelligent transportation systems (ITS) and vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs), (6) social networks, 
and (7) distributed computing technologies and services.  
The FOAN Workshop addressed implementation aspects of fiber-to-the-home (FTTH) networks, which 
are being installed worldwide at a rapidly growing rate. Today there are already more than 30 million FTTH 
connections in the world. One of the main drivers for the growing number of FTTH connections was appearing 
PON network. The evolution of PON technologies has provided an attractive area for telecom researchers and 
development engineers in a wide range of telecom disciplines. This goal of the FOAN workshop was to collect 
the latest research and engineering experience from all aspects of PON implementations. The four main topics 
addressed by the speakers were (1) How to connect PONs to other telecom networks. (2) Strategies for solving 
the growing bandwidth demands on passive optical networks. (3) Descriptions of the status of component and 
modules needed for PONs. (4) Overviews of new services that might be desired by users on a PON and how to 
offer these services. 
Following the ICUMT conference, Prof. Gerd Keiser, Dr. Jeng-Ywan Jeng (Director of the Taiwan 
National Science Council Science and Technology Division in Russia), Prof. Kuei-Chu Hsu (National Central 
University, Taiwan), and Prof. S.K. Liaw (NTUST) visited the International Laser Center at Moscow State 
University. The visit was hosted by Dr. Svyatoslav Shlenov, Vice Director of the International Laser Center. 
The meeting started with overview presentations of ongoing research by Prof. Vladimir Makarov (Chair of 
General Physics and Wave Processing; Director of the International Laser Center) and Prof. Alexander 
Priezzhev (Head of the Laboratory of Biophotonics). The research areas of the Laser Center cover various 
fields of laser physics, including nonlinear optics and photonics, nonlinear spectroscopy and laser diagnostics, 
interaction of laser radiation with matter, laser and mathematical biophysics and biomedicine, quantum and 
statistical optics, and x-ray optics. Several research labs were toured after the overview lectures. 
 
(H) Optical Fiber Communications (OFC) Conference 2011 
 
The IEEE/OSA-sponsored Optical Fiber Communications/National Fiber Optic Engineers Conference 
(OFC-NFOEC) was held in Los Angeles in March 2011. This is a leading world conference that addresses all 
aspects of lightwave communications ranging from active and passive components to test equipment to 
large-scale telecom systems. Over 12,000 engineers, scientists, and manufacturers typically attend the 
conference and there are about 600 exhibitors.  
In addition to the conference having numerous oral presentations and poster papers related to all aspects 
of the NSC project, there were workshops for discussing and debating the latest technology developments, a 
symposium on next-generation optical networks, panel discussions on a variety of issues related to network 
installations, and a good selection of short courses. Gerd Keiser taught one of these short courses (SC289: 
 35
range of communications topics. The topics included WDM access network technologies, high-speed 
transmitters and related photonic devices, network control applications, novel photonic devices and 
technologies, high-speed TDM-PON technologies, radio-over-fiber technologies, and advanced protocols for 
passive optical networks (PON). 
In addition to listening to presentations of the latest research in communications, Mr. Chen also presented 
a technical paper entitled “Simplified Design of a Precise Freeform TIR Lens for LED Lighting 
Applications.” This paper described research carried out on the NSC project NSC97-2218-E011-007-MY3. 
The objective of the paper was to present a new calculation method for TIR lens design, which is based on a 
simple geometric optics approach to get the relationships between the incident ray, the exit ray and the 
interface curvature. The advantage of this method is that first an interpolation method is used to find the 
slopes at all points along the lens curvature. This is followed by a straightforward iterative method to get the 
coordinate locations of the whole lens. With this technique a precise freeform TIR lens can be designed and 
fabricated easily for lambertian light emissions. 
 
(K) 2011 37th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC-2011)  
 
On 19-24 July 2011, Liang-Tang Chen attended the 2011 37th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference 
(PVSC-2011) in Seattle, USA. The PVSC-2011 themes covered the topics of Photoelectric Concentrator 
Receivers/Modules and High/Low Concentrator Systems. 
The main subject of interest was the design of a solar energy concentrator and its associated modular 
system. Detailed talks were presented in all engineering aspects of the single concentrator, such as the design 
of primary optical devices, the design of secondary optical components (such as collimating lenses and 
reflectors), and the CPC design. For the secondary optical components, the audience could learn engineering 
techniques from a range of different designs and analyses, especially in the area of allowed tolerance 
improvements. Furthermore, it was shown that the concentrator also can have a modularized design. This 
modularization promotes the overall efficiency of the light collection, thus increasing the photoelectric 
conversion efficiency. In addition, the design of the concentrator used to reflect the sun's heat in the 
conversion to energy was elaborated on in great detail. Another topic of high interest was how to apply a 
grating design to solar cells in order to enhance the internal efficiency. As described above, we can apply the 
optical simulation software already in use on the NSC Advanced Photonics Technology Develpments and 
Applications project to analyze the design enhancement of solar energy concentrators, system modularity, and 
even the interior design of solar cells in pursuit of improving the operational efficiency of optical devices and 
optimizing system performance. 
a gradual increase of the insertion loss. 
 
have. 
 
(3) The talk by N. Wyche discussed the wide health gap between the population in 
general and minority groups (such as Haitians) in the US. In particular the study 
examined the effects of lifestyle, values, and beliefs unique to Haitians that often 
prevent these people from seeking healthcare. Similar culture, language, and 
economic barriers can exist for ethnic groups in Taiwan and other Asian countries. 
Taking such factors into account when researching new and advanced healthcare 
monitoring devices, networks, and services on the NSC project will result in 
affordable, efficient, and user friendly devices and methods for addressing the 
healthcare needs of poor groups in Taiwan. For example, one optoelectronic 
healthcare monitoring device we are researching on the NSC project involves the use 
of miniaturized, inexpensive electronic components that consume very little power. 
The objective is to make this a continuously wearable device that can interface by 
means of a low-cost wireless link to an inexpensive central monitoring station in the 
form of a small electronic box. We now realize that it is an interesting challenge to 
make this system and its interface to a medical person or facility acceptable to various 
ethnic groups in Taiwan.  
 
(4) The presentation by H. Agourram discussed the potential of national culture as a 
major barrier to knowledge creation. The argument was that natural culture may 
constrain people in general and managers in particular from fully utilizing 
western-based concepts such as knowledge management systems and business 
intelligence applications which enable firms to gain and sustain competitive 
advantages. The same concepts can be applied to collecting and managing patient data, 
which is a part of knowledge management. On the NSC project we need to be aware 
of cultural differences when extending to the Taiwan society any western-based 
knowledge-creation processes for collecting and managing information from 
advanced remote health-monitoring photonic devices and data gathering networks. 
Whereas such knowledge creation processes applied to health status monitoring might 
not be a problem for people residing in a western nursing home facility, in Taiwan the 
importance of gathering and processing healthcare data from home-based patients 
needs to be stressed to family supporters and domestic caretakers. Thus, in our 
ongoing research to create advanced health-monitoring photonic devices that can be 
operated and read from a remote location, we are starting to look at knowledge 
creation methods for automatically reading, storing, and processing the data. 
 
(D) International Conference on Optical Communications and Networks 
 
3.0 BJTU Visit Highlights 
Similar to BUPT, the Beijing Jiaotong University has numerous spacious facilities 
for photonics research. For example, the Institute of Optoelectronic Technology 
(IOET) has 1500 square meters of space for laboratories, which contain advanced 
equipment. An interesting observation is that many of the devices used in the 
experiments (such as a larger selection of optical fiber polarization controllers) were 
custom-made by IOET researchers. Similarly, much of the equipment in the Key 
Laboratory of All Optical Network and Advanced Telecommunication Networks were 
custom-made by graduate students and researchers. This includes a special fiber 
preform manufacturing machine, a custom-built fiber drawing tower that can 
accommodate almost any type of standard and specialty fiber preform (such as 
various forms of photonic crystal fibers), and several racks of 40-Gb/s optical 
transmission equipment for long-haul experiments. The optical fiber group has made 
hundreds of kilometers of various types of fibers and also has fabricated a wide 
variety of fiber Bragg gratings for 40-Gb/s long-haul transmission experiments. 
 
 
(E) Optical Fiber Communications (OFC) Conference 2010 
 
The IEEE/OSA-sponsored Optical Fiber Communications/National Fiber Optic 
Engineers Conference (OFC-NFOEC) was held in San Diego in March 2010. This is a 
leading world conference that addresses all aspects of lightwave communications 
ranging from active and passive components to test equipment to large-scale telecom 
systems. Over 12,000 engineers, scientists, and manufacturers typically attend the 
conference and there are about 600 exhibitors.  
In addition to the conference having numerous oral presentations and poster 
papers related to all aspects of the NSC project, there were workshops for discussing 
and debating the latest technology developments, a symposium on next-generation 
optical networks, panel discussions on a variety of issues related to network 
installations, and a good selection of short courses. Gerd Keiser taught one of these 
short courses (Basics of Optical Communications and WDM). 
The following workshops and sessions were of particular interest to the NSC 
project: (1) Workshop OME: Microfibers and Nanofibers: Are they here to stay? (2) 
Radio over Fiber; (3) Advanced PON Technologies; (4) Advanced Network 
Applications; (5) Novel Component Technology for WDM-PON; (6) Fibers for FTTX 
and In-Home Networking. 
 
conference included topics such as (1) wireless access technologies and related 
systems and protocols, (2) green communications, (3) information and coding theory, 
(4) digital broadcasting technologies and services, (5) intelligent transportation 
systems (ITS) and vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs), (6) social networks, and (7) 
distributed computing technologies and services.  
The FOAN Workshop addressed implementation aspects of fiber-to-the-home 
(FTTH) networks, which are being installed worldwide at a rapidly growing rate. 
Today there are already more than 30 million FTTH connections in the world. One of 
the main drivers for the growing number of FTTH connections was appearing PON 
network. The evolution of PON technologies has provided an attractive area for 
telecom researchers and development engineers in a wide range of telecom disciplines. 
This goal of the FOAN workshop was to collect the latest research and engineering 
experience from all aspects of PON implementations. The four main topics addressed 
by the speakers were (1) How to connect PONs to other telecom networks. (2) 
Strategies for solving the growing bandwidth demands on passive optical networks. (3) 
Descriptions of the status of component and modules needed for PONs. (4) Overviews 
of new services that might be desired by users on a PON and how to offer these 
services. 
Following the ICUMT conference, Prof. Gerd Keiser, Dr. Jeng-Ywan Jeng 
(Director of the Taiwan National Science Council Science and Technology Division in 
Russia), Prof. Kuei-Chu Hsu (National Central University, Taiwan), and Prof. S.K. 
Liaw (NTUST) visited the International Laser Center at Moscow State University. The 
visit was hosted by Dr. Svyatoslav Shlenov, Vice Director of the International Laser 
Center. The meeting started with overview presentations of ongoing research by Prof. 
Vladimir Makarov (Chair of General Physics and Wave Processing; Director of the 
International Laser Center) and Prof. Alexander Priezzhev (Head of the Laboratory of 
Biophotonics). The research areas of the Laser Center cover various fields of laser 
physics, including nonlinear optics and photonics, nonlinear spectroscopy and laser 
diagnostics, interaction of laser radiation with matter, laser and mathematical 
biophysics and biomedicine, quantum and statistical optics, and x-ray optics. Several 
research labs were toured after the overview lectures. 
 
(H) Optical Fiber Communications (OFC) Conference 2011 
 
The IEEE/OSA-sponsored Optical Fiber Communications/National Fiber Optic 
Engineers Conference (OFC-NFOEC) was held in Los Angeles in March 2011. This 
is a leading world conference that addresses all aspects of lightwave communications 
ranging from active and passive components to test equipment to large-scale telecom 
conditions such as large temperature variations, water immersion, salt spray, and high 
humidity. Although a number of different optical connector designs exist for harsh 
outdoor field environments, such as for tactical military communication links, 
connections to remotely located antennas, and telecom networks, such components 
tend to be more costly than standard telecom connectors. 
In the study the time to failure of several cable assemblies were examined under 
accelerated test conditions when the assemblies were subjected to a simulated 3.9-pH 
acid rain, a temperature of 60℃, and a 100-rpm rotation rate. FC type connectors 
from three different manufacturers were compared. During the evaluations following 
the tests, we checked for insertion loss variations, changes occurring on the tip shape 
of the patch cord connectors, and connector material degradations. The experimental 
results indicate that the time variation of the degree of corrosion damage on the 
connector results in various levels of rusting, occasional failures in fiber bonding, and 
a gradual increase of the insertion loss. 
 
(J) OptoElectronics and Communications Conference (OECC) 2011 
 
On 5-9 July 2011, Liang-Tang Chen attended the IEEE-sponsored 16th 
OptoElectronics and Communications Conference (OECC-2011) in Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan. The OECC-2011 themes covered a broad range of communications topics. 
The topics included WDM access network technologies, high-speed transmitters and 
related photonic devices, network control applications, novel photonic devices and 
technologies, high-speed TDM-PON technologies, radio-over-fiber technologies, and 
advanced protocols for passive optical networks (PON). 
In addition to listening to presentations of the latest research in communications, 
Mr. Chen also presented a technical paper entitled “Simplified Design of a Precise 
Freeform TIR Lens for LED Lighting Applications.” This paper described research 
carried out on the NSC project NSC97-2218-E011-007-MY3. The objective of the 
paper was to present a new calculation method for TIR lens design, which is based on 
a simple geometric optics approach to get the relationships between the incident ray, 
the exit ray and the interface curvature. The advantage of this method is that first an 
interpolation method is used to find the slopes at all points along the lens curvature. 
This is followed by a straightforward iterative method to get the coordinate locations 
of the whole lens. With this technique a precise freeform TIR lens can be designed 
and fabricated easily for lambertian light emissions. 
 
(K) 2011 37th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC-2011)  
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 高階光子技術發展與應用
計畫主持人: 凱紀德
計畫編號: 97-2218-E-011-007-MY3 學門領域: 通訊 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 具雙向性之多波長路由與放大模組
(英文) Bidirectional multiwavelength optical signal routing and amplification module
成果歸屬機構
國立臺灣科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
凱紀德,廖顯奎,張莒林,黃鈺勝
技術說明
(中文) 本發明提供了一種具雙向性之多波長光信號路由與放大模組,其可以基於分波多
工技術而用以同時對於高容量單一光纖混合式被動光網路進行即時狀態監控與異
常診斷。本發明系有關於一種光纖網路架構，特別係止一種具雙向性之多波長路
由與放大模組應用於多波分工被動光網路(WDM-PON)系統中，期可有效地偵測分
波多工被動光網路之錯誤。提供一種具雙向性之多波長路由與放大模組，能夠提
供一個高彈性的上 下行信號，藉由選擇參鉺光纖放大器，本發明之系統可以操
作於10Gbps or 40 Gbps或更高的，因此升級本發明之系統很容易辦到，只要選
擇正確的參鉺光纖放大器，提供不同信號的增益，以符合系統的要求即可達成目
的。
(英文) The present invention provides a bidirectional optical signal traffic-directing and 
amplification module which is used in a method for simultaneous real-time status 
monitoring and troubleshooting of a high-capacity single-fiber hybrid passive optical 
network that is based on wavelength-division-multiplexing techniques.
產業別 光學及精密器械製造業；其他專業、科學及技術服務業
技術/產品應用範圍 光纖通訊
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
光纖通訊
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
Invited talks and short courses presented by Gerd Keiser at international 
conferences: 
1.Tutorial talk: ’Fiber to the Premises (FTTP),’ Beijing University 
of Posts and Telecommunications, 14 Sept 2009. 
2.Invited keynote talk: ’Applications of Photonic Devices to Life 
Sciences and Healthcare Systems,’ International Conference on Optical 
Communications and Networks (ICOCN 2009), 15 September 2009, Beijing, 
China. 
3.Short course: ’Basics of Optical Communication Systems and WDM,’ 
IEEE/OSA OFC-NFOEC, San Diego, March 2010. 
4.Invited keynote talk: ’Challenges for In-Home Health Status 
Monitoring,’ Body Sensor Networks (BSN 2010), 5 June 2010, Singapore.
5.IEEE Photonics Society Lecture: ’Challenging Research Endeavors in 
Real-World Systems,’ Singapore, 10 June 2010. 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
