 2
本計畫的最終目標是要利用改良後的蛋白質動力素馬達(kinesin motor proteins)、含有平行微管束
(microtubules)的微流道系統以及核酸適核體(aptamers)來建構微型化又極靈敏的生醫檢測裝置。天然的
蛋白質動力素馬達能藉著將生物能源分子 ATP 中的化學能轉換成動能 而使特定的自然(biologically 
natural)「貨物」分子從微小管的負端運送到正端。有趣的是，動力素的馬達功能只有當動力素已經載
有「貨物」分子時才會降落在微管束軌道上並啟動其消耗 ATP 的酵素活性。本計畫主持人希望利用動
力素馬達的主動運輸的特性，將濃度極稀的檢測物分子（例如早期慢性病變患者之檢體）在所構建的
微型機具裡經過濃縮後能被檢測到。本計畫的主要特色如下。為了使動力素能夠攜帶檢測物（非天然
的貨物）分子，本計畫提議利用「貨物分子載運核酸適核體」來作為媒介。核酸適核體是具有特殊立
體結構的單股的核酸分子，能與特定的標的物（如檢測物）形成專一而緊密的結合。核酸適核體是利
用一種稱為 SELEX 的技術從一群至少含有 1014 不同的序列的單股核酸中篩選得到的。 
     利用動力素馬達來建構分子載具的構想已被提出多年並且仍被熱烈地探討中。現今大部分的研究
都是著重在「輸送帶」型的分子載具；這是將動力素馬達固定在機具表面，使微管束在鋪滿動力素馬
達的表面上滑行。本計畫提出的載具是屬於較少人探討的「黃包車」模式，使動力素馬達在微管束軌
道上單向運輸。本計畫之所以不採用流行的「輸送帶」載具是因為那種模式具有無法克服的內生性缺
點，不適合本計畫所提出的要求。 
 為達成計畫目標，研究工作將分成兩個互補的區塊。第一個區塊是動力素馬達的功能改造，包括:
利用基因重組工程改造動力素，及證明我們可以使得檢測物分子能夠被動力素載運。本計畫主持人已
經利用基因工程的方式設計了全新的動力素馬達，使其在蛋白質鍊的 C 端帶有一個 DNA 結合區團；
對此基因重組蛋白質 KHC-DBP，我們已經進行了生產、純化以及初步的驗證研究，結果都與預期相符。
這個計畫的第二個區塊工作是微流道系統的工程建構。本計畫主持人與楊宗勳(助理教授 中央大學 光
電工程)發展新型簡易微流道晶片以及開發低成本高效能顯微鏡單分子觀測技術。 
     結合上述兩個區塊的研發成果，本計畫將會對目前分子載具系統的設計理念產生重大改革，並能
解決目前想將蛋白質馬達載具系統應用於生醫檢測所遇到的諸多困難。 
 4
The use of a kinesin-cro fusion protein as the molecular shuttle to transport specific DNA 
 
 
 
 
Ming-Chieh Tsai1, Jui-Yu Wu2, Hsiu-Chen Lin3, Tso-Hsiao Chen4, Yu-Hui Hsieh2, Chwen-Ming Shih2, 
Weh-Yi Chen5, Tai-Chih Kuo2* 
 
 
 
 
1Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Cathy General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan 
2Department of Biochemistry, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan 
3Department of Pediatrics, Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taipei Taiwan 
4Depratment of Internal Medicine, Tan-Fang Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan 
5Department of Chemical and Material Engineering, National Central University, Tao-Yang, Taiwan 
 
 
*Corresponding author (email, tckuo@tmu.edu.tw) 
 
 
 6
     From the view points of engineering scientists, the most interesting feature of the biological world is the 
presence of various mechanochemical enzymes, which allow cells and organisms to perform mechanical work 
or work against randomness by consuming energy [1, 2]. To maneuver the mechanochemical enzymes for 
nanotechnology applications [3-5], the conventional kinesin proteins are the favorite material of scientists, 
because these proteins have been studied intensively and these proteins are structurally smaller and simpler 
than other motor proteins [6-8]. Most conventional kinesin proteins are heterotetramers composed of two 
identical heavy (KHC) and light chains (KLC). The KHC contains an N-terminal motor domain, a long 
central region with two consecutive coil-coil domains, and a C-terminal tail domain for specific cargo binding 
and regulating motor activity. The motor domain harbors the kinesin ATPase and MT binding sites. The heavy 
chains form a homodimer through the coil-coil domain. The KLC is not required for the movement of kinesin, 
but is needed for the regulation of motor activity. The conventional kinesin motor protein processively 
transports the designated cargos from the minus end of MTs towards the plus end [9, 10]. 
     Thanks to the pioneering efforts of H. Hess [11] and others, researchers have converted the kinesin 
motors and MTs into protein shuttles to transport or concentrate the designated cargos in sophisticated 
microfluidic devices [5, 12, 13]. Those shuttles can be categorized into two models. The first is with the 
gliding geometry where the tail-truncated kinesin molecules are immobilized on surface and MT shuttles glide 
over a lawn of motors [14, 15]. The second is with the bead geometry where the kinesin shuttles transport the 
micro/nano beads, which act as the illustrative cargos or as the cargo carriers, along the immobilized MTs [16, 
17]. Although attractive demonstrations have been presented, obstacles remain to be resolved in order to build 
protein shuttles of real-world utility.  
The issue which we deal with is the way of implementing cargo loading to the protein shuttles. In both 
classes of shuttles mentioned above there is no cargo binding site in the MTs and the truncated kinesin 
proteins, and methods of cargo loading must be sought. For the shuttles of the gliding geometry, the covalent 
cross-linking of tubulin subunits with biotin and/or other functional groups is almost exclusively used to 
mediate the binding between the MT shuttles and the illustrative cargos. However, such method is with limits. 
For example, the covalent modification of tubulin subunits is time-consuming, lacking site-specificity, and 
often with low recovery yields. For the shuttles of the bead geometry, the attachment between the beads and 
shuttles is non-specific. The numbers of kinesin protein and cargo molecules per bead are difficult to control 
precisely. Thus, although the popular approaches serve the proposed goals well, we believe that we should 
seek alternative methods of implementing cargo-shuttle binding. 
     In our research, we are interested in developing a protein shuttle to carry specific DNA. To resolve the 
cargo loading issue, we decided to adopt the bead geometry and we replaced the cargo binding domain of the 
wild type kinesin with a DNA binding protein by using the recombinant protein technology. The recombinant 
protein technology has been applied to study the domain function and mechanistic issues of kinesin (for 
example, [18, 19]), yet rarely for the issues of cargo loading. 
In this study, for the purposes of DNA binding we chose to use the cro repressor protein of the λ 
bacteriophage [20, 21]. The λ cro protein, which has only 66 amino acid residues, can dimerize and tightly 
bind specific DNA with 17-bp signature sequences [22]. We genetically fuse the cro protein with the kinesin 
KIF5A579. The KIF5A579 is a 579-aa kinesin protein derived from the neuron specific human kinesin KIF5A 
by deleting the wild type cargo-binding domain and the second coil-coil domain [23, 24]. In this way, we 
created two versions of the recombinant kinesins, the KHC-cro v1 and KHC-cro v2. The only minor 
 8
velocity (0.54~0.79 μm/s), the KIF5A kinesin needs to hydrolyze ATP with a kcat 68~99 s-1 which is ~2-5 fold 
higher than the data from the enzyme activity assay. Similar conflicts were also noticed [29, 30]. We speculate 
that only a fraction of the purified kinesin was active in our enzyme activity assay. Since kinesin protein is 
known to nonspecifically stick onto the plastic or glass surface, such events could explain the underestimates.  
In summary, we have demonstrated the feasibility that kinesin can specifically carry non-native cargo 
molecules by genetically replacing the native cargo-binding protein domain with a receptor of the interested 
foreigner cargos. Recently, the same approach was used to create a kinesin-calmodulin fusion protein which 
can bind its M13 cargo peptide [31]. In fact, all members of the kinesin superfamily, each with unique cargo 
specificity, are the products of genetic engineering, yet selected by Natural evolution. Thus, we believe that 
the recombinant DNA technology should be a useful approach to create kinesin fusion protein shuttles with 
the desired cargo specificity. 
  For the design of new kinesin fusion shuttles, one probably would think the use of antibodies as the 
cargo receptors. We feel that our experience is particularly useful. The DNA-binding by the cro dimer is 
reminiscent of the antigen-binding by the dimerized Fv domains of antibodies. In designing the KHC-cro, we 
took the advantage that two kinesin heavy chain polypeptides form dimers through the central coil-coil 
interactions and the two tail cro domains will be close to each other for DNA binding. Similarly, a functional 
ligand-binding kinesin shuttle with Fv dimer could be created by fusing the phage-display selected Fv domain 
to the kinesin tail. 
 Finally, we believe that the idea behind the present study can also be applied to prepare the shuttles of the 
convoy belt model. To circumvent the difficulty of creating a fusion tubulin with a cargo receptor, we can 
genetically fuse the interested cargo receptor to the truncated microtubule-associated protein which just 
contains the minimal MT-binding domain [32, 33]. We envision that protein shuttles with real-world 
applications can be prepared by using the recombinant DNA technology. 
Materials and Methods 
Plasmid construction, protein expression and purification. For the creation of KHC-cro fusion proteins, 
the cDNA of the first 579-a.a. residues of the cloned KIF5A was amplified by using the PCR technique. The 
cDNA sequence of the λ cro protein was derived from its amino acid sequences. The λ cro cDNA was made 
from the PCR amplification of the spliced product of four chemically synthesized oligonucleotides (see 
supplementary material for detail). The cDNAs of the KIF5A579 and λ cro were ligated, and inserted into the 
pET28 and pET24 vectors (Novagen, Madison, WI) for constructing the plasmids of the KHC-cro v1 and 
KHC-cro v2, respectively. To construct the plasmid of KHCΔcro, the cDNA of the KIF5A579 was inserted in 
the pET24 vector. The recombinant proteins were bacterially expressed and purified from cell lysates by using 
the Ni-NTA chromatography. Please refer to the supplementary material for detail.  
The DNA binding assay. To estimate the DNA-protein binding affinity and specificity, the filter binding 
assay was used [34]. In the experiments, we designed two sets of DNA, the SpDNA and NsDNA. The SpDNA 
is a 30-bp DNA containing the 17-bp λ cro binding sequences. The SpDNA was made of complementary 
oligonucleotides with the consensus cro-binding sequence of 5'ACCGAACTATCACCGCGGGTGATACA- 
TGCG3'. The nucleotides in close contacts with the cro proteins are highlighted by double underlines [22]. 
The NsDNA acts as a decoy of the SpDNA. The NsDNA was made of the complementary oligonucleotides, 
with the decoy cro-bind sequences of 5' ACCGAACTATCACCGTCTGGGTGATACATGCG3'. The 
sequences of the NsDNA are similar to those of the SpDNA, except the presence of two additional base-pairs 
 10
Figures and legends 
 
 
 
Figure 1. The design and preparation of the kinesion fusion proteins with and without the cro protein domain. 
(A). The structural domains of the kinesin fusion proteins. In the KHC-cro v1 protein, the histidine-tag (6×H) 
is at the N-terminal, and a 6-a.a.-linker (TGASAG) is located between the end of the kinesin coil-coil and the 
cro protein domain. In the KHC-cro v2 protein, the histidine-tag is located within the 18-aa linker 
(SGSHHHHHHGSGTGASAG) between kinesin and cro. In the KHCΔcro, the histidine-tag is at the C-terminal. The 
numbers of amino acid residues and the molecular weight (MW) of the three proteins are indicated on the 
diagram. Drawing not to scale. (B) The SDS-PAGE profile of the extracted recombinant kinesin proteins. E. 
coli BL21(DE3) cells harboring the expression vector for KHC-cro v2 were analyzed for total protein contents 
prior to (Lane 1) or after (Lane 2) the addition of IPTG for the induction of protein expression. The IMAC 
(Ni-NTA) chromatography was used to extract the produced KHC-cro v1 (Lane 3), KHC-cro v2 (Lane 4) and 
KHCΔcro (Lane 5) from the total cell extracts. Lane 6 contains the molecular weight markers.  
 
 12
 
 
 
Figure 3. The steady state MT-dependent ATPase activity of the fusion kinesin proteins. (A). The time course 
of the MT-stimulated ATP hydrolysis. In the absence of the SpDNA (cro-binding DNA), the kinesin fusion 
protein was incubated in assay buffer without MTs (KHC-cro v1 ◇) or with MTs (KHCΔcro {, KHC-cro v1 
■, KHC-cro v2 z), and the ATP hydrolysis was monitored from the decreases of OD340 reading. The 
experiment was repeated by adding the SpDNA (KHC-cro v2 ◆). For each fusion kinesin, the data were 
from the averages of two repeats using the protein sample of the same batch. The concentrations of the 
KHCΔcro, KHC-cro v1, and KHC-cro v2 were 11.8 nM, 14.5 nM, and 19.1 nM, respectively. The 
concentration of MTs was 1.8 μM.  (B). The dependency of the observed rates of ATP hydrolysis on the 
concentrations of MTs. The experiments shown in the Figure 3A were repeated with KHC-cro v2, in the 
absence (z) or presence (◆)  of SpDNA, and various amounts of MTs. The observed rate constants were 
calculated and plotted as a function of MT concentrations. The data were averages of three experiments using 
protein samples purified on two different dates. 
 
 
 
 
 
 14
References 
1. Nishizaka, T., Molecular bio-motors in living cells. Adv Biochem Eng Biotechnol, 2010. 119: p. 3-15. 
2. Schliwa, M. and G. Woehlke, Molecular motors. Nature, 2003. 422(6933): p. 759-65. 
3. Hess, H., Engineering applications of biomolecular motors. Annu Rev Biomed Eng, 2011. 13: p. 
429-50. 
4. van den Heuvel, M.G. and C. Dekker, Motor proteins at work for nanotechnology. Science, 2007. 
317(5836): p. 333-6. 
5. Goel, A. and V. Vogel, Harnessing biological motors to engineer systems for nanoscale transport and 
assembly. Nat Nanotechnol, 2008. 3(8): p. 465-75. 
6. Scholey, J.M., et al., Identification of kinesin in sea urchin eggs, and evidence for its localization in the 
mitotic spindle. Nature, 1985. 318(6045): p. 483-6. 
7. Vale, R.D., T.S. Reese, and M.P. Sheetz, Identification of a novel force-generating protein, kinesin, 
involved in microtubule-based motility. Cell, 1985. 42(1): p. 39-50. 
8. Vale, R.D. and R.J. Fletterick, The design plan of kinesin motors. Annu Rev Cell Dev Biol, 1997. 13: p. 
745-77. 
9. Hirokawa, N., et al., Kinesin associates with anterogradely transported membranous organelles in 
vivo. J Cell Biol, 1991. 114(2): p. 295-302. 
10. Schnapp, B.J., T.S. Reese, and R. Bechtold, Kinesin is bound with high affinity to squid axon 
organelles that move to the plus-end of microtubules. J Cell Biol, 1992. 119(2): p. 389-99. 
11. Hess, H. and V. Vogel, Molecular shuttles based on motor proteins: active transport in synthetic 
environments. Rev Mol Biol, 2001. 82(1): p. 67-85. 
12. Korten, T., A. Mansson, and S. Diez, Towards the application of cytoskeletal motor proteins in 
molecular detection and diagnostic devices. Curr Opin Biotechnol, 2010. 21(4): p. 477-88. 
13. Malcos, J.L. and W.O. Hancock, Engineering tubulin: microtubule functionalization approaches for 
nanoscale device applications. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol, 2011. 90(1): p. 1-10. 
14. Howard, J. and A.A. Hyman, Preparation of marked microtubules for the assay of the polarity of 
microtubule-based motors by fluorescence microscopy. Methods Cell Biol, 1993. 39: p. 105-13. 
15. Howard, J., A.J. Hudspeth, and R.D. Vale, Movement of microtubules by single kinesin molecules. 
Nature, 1989. 342(6246): p. 154-8. 
16. Block, S.M., L.S. Goldstein, and B.J. Schnapp, Bead movement by single kinesin molecules studied 
with optical tweezers. Nature, 1990. 348(6299): p. 348-52. 
17. Coy, D.L., M. Wagenbach, and J. Howard, Kinesin takes one 8-nm step for each ATP that it hydrolyzes. 
J Biol Chem, 1999. 274(6): p. 3667-71. 
18. Yang, J.T., et al., Evidence that the head of kinesin is sufficient for force generation and motility in 
vitro. Science, 1990. 249(4964): p. 42-7. 
19. Tomishige, M., D.R. Klopfenstein, and R.D. Vale, Conversion of Unc104/KIF1A kinesin into a 
processive motor after dimerization. Science, 2002. 297(5590): p. 2263-7. 
20. Ptashne, M., et al., How the lambda repressor and cro work. Cell, 1980. 19(1): p. 1-11. 
21. Ptashne, M., A Genetic Switch: Gene Control and Phage Lambda. 1987, Cambridge, MA USA: Cell 
Press and Blackwell Scientific Publications. 128. 
22. Albright, R.A. and B.W. Matthews, Crystal structure of lambda-Cro bound to a consensus operator at 
 16
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
已經投出一篇文稿至國際學術期刊 Biotechnology & Bioengineering 
 另一篇正在撰寫 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■審稿中 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
此項研究的成果將可應用於奈米生醫檢測、奈米微結構製程等技術領域上。
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
附件二 
 
Dear Dr. Tsung-Hsun Yang, 
 
Your submitted presentation  
 
CCT-Dependant Clibration on Chromaticity Measurement in Colorimetry 
 
for the Scientific Programme of the 27th CIE Session 2011 (July 11 – July 15, 2011 
in Sun City, South Africa) has been accepted as  
 
Poster 
 
Please find below your presentation details: 
 
Mounting of Posters: July 10, 2011 
 
Official Poster presentation times: 
Tuesday:  11:30 – 13:00 
Wednesday: 11:30 – 13:00 
Thursday:  11:30 – 13:00 
 
The deadline for electronic submission of your full paper for the Conference 
Proceedings is March 30, 2010.  
Please also note that you have to be registered (incl. full payment of fee) by 
March 30, 2010 latest, as your paper will be considered as withdrawn if this is not 
the case. 
So do not hesitate to visit our homepage and register for the meeting at your earliest 
convenience. 
 
You will find all necessary information and guidelines for your presentation and 
paper submission at http://www.lightbe.co.za/cie/Presenters 
 
Looking forward to seeing you in July 2011 in Sun City 
 
I remain 
with best regards 
 
 
Dr. Janos Schanda 
Chair of the International Scientific Committee 
 
 
exists manufactured limit to make the spectral response identified with the spectrum of desired color 
matching functions. For the convenience of the filtered colorimeter, the applicability is higher, but 
accurate chromaticity measurement is essential whatever color research and practical application of 
color measurement. A matrix method, Four-Color Method, has been developed to improve the 
accuracy of chromaticity measurements of displays using tristimulus colorimeters through being 
independent of Y values to eliminate the errors due to luminance measurements variations [7-8]. Also, 
to make the spectral response of color filter as close as possible to the color matching functions in 
fabrication can advance the accuracy of chromaticity measurement [9-10]. Furthermore, high accuracy 
detector such as trap detectors can promote the quality of colorimeters [11]. The significant 
advantages of trap detectors are no light is reflected back from the detector to the input optics( filters 
and aperture), especially for transmission type version [12-13], and the uniformity of spatial 
responsivity can be high if the internal quantum efficiency of  the photodiodes is uniform over the 
active area, relative response non-uniformities of less than 0.02% [14]. 
In addition, the source chromaticity values measurements from tristimulus colorimeters are detector-
based [15] or conventional source-based calibrated by considering responsivity uncertainties and 
source spectral irradiance uncertainties. And detector-based calibration factors generally have lower 
uncertainties than source-based calibration factors [16]. It was recently suggested that lower 
uncertainties could be obtained by calibrating the responses of the colorimeter filter radiometers on a 
high-accuracy system [17] such as the NIST laser-based Spectral Irradiance Comparison with Uniform 
Sources (SIRCUS facility) [18].  
In this paper, the measurement uncertainty occurring is focused because of the imperfect color filters 
whose responses mimic the color matching functions [19]. As a result of the distribution of the color 
matching functions is not equivalent for all wavelengths. Besides, there is another problem occurred 
with tristimulus colorimeters that the limited information for a particular illuminant/observer combination 
[20]. Therefore, the utility of light source with different color temperature (TC) also brings the 
measurement uncertainty.  
Summary of the above two points of view; the calibration factors should be a function of wavelength 
and TC. Commercially, the correction of a tristimulus colorimeter is mainly using the CIE illuminant A 
having a TC of about 2,856K as the correcting light source to derive one weighting coefficients [21]. 
However, the applied light source in color measurement is not always the CIE illuminant A, the 
calibration method using it inevitably exits disadvantage especially for the considerable difference of 
having a TC to 2,856K. Hence, the main goal of this research is to induce a novel calibration method 
directed against the imperfect color filters suitable for light source with all kinds of TC. 
 
2 Theoretical Principle 
In order to describe color of a reflector quantitatively with x, y chromaticity coordinates, the CIE 
tristimulus values are obtained by 
( ) ( ) ( )
( ) ( ) ( )
( ) ( ) ( )
X k S R x d
Y k S R y d
Z k S R z d



   
   
   






  (1) 
where S(λ) is the spectral power distribution of the light source, R(λ) is the reflectance of a reflector, 
( ), ( ), ( )x y z   are the CIE 1931 color matching functions, and k is a normalization factor so that 
Y=100 for a perfect reflecting diffuser. 
If there is relative errors occurred in the color filter, e(λ), that must induce an uncertainty in tristimulus 
(X,Y,Z), so as the chromaticity coordinates(x, y). The tristimulus values with error (X’, Y’, Z’) are 
describe as Eq. (2). 
''
'
( ) ( ) '( )
( ) ( ) '( )
( ) ( ) '( )
A
A A
A
A A
A
A A
X k k S R x d
Y k k S R y d
Z k k S R z d



   
   
   
 
 
 



 (5) 
Correspondingly, when the light source utilized is not the illuminant A, Eq. (5) should be modified as 
Eq. (6) ideally. ' ' '( , , )C C CT T TX Y Z are tristimulus values, and 
CT
k  is the correcting factor to calibrate the 
colorimeter with defective color filters for the light sources with color temperature TC. 
'
'
'
( ) ( ) '( )
( ) ( ) '( )
( ) ( ) '( )
C
C C
C
C C
C
C C
T
T T
T
T T
T
T T
X k k S R x d
Y k k S R y d
Z k k S R z d



   
   
   
 
 
 



 (6) 
However, instead of 
CT
k  existing in commercial colorimeters, tristimulus values are obtained by Eq. (7). 
' ' '( , , )C C CT T Tr r rX Y Z  are tristimulus values in real case  for the light sources with color temperature TC. 
'
'
'
( ) ( ) '( )
( ) ( ) '( )
( ) ( ) '( )
C
C
C
C
C
C
T
r A T
T
r A T
T
r A T
X k k S R x d
Y k k S R y d
Z k k S R z d



   
   
   
 
 
 



 (7) 
Therefore, to analyze the relationship between ' ' '( , , )A A AX Y Z  and ' ' '( , , )C C CT T TX Y Z  could obtain a 
correcting formula for light sources of different TC.  
3. Systematic Analysis 
The wavelength interval of S(λ), R(λ) and ( ), ( ), ( )x y z    are 5nm according to the CIE 1931 color 
matching functions with 8 significant digits in decimal claimed by the CIE, and the range of wavelength 
is visible light, 380nm to 780nm. Relative error this article produced is 0.1% all for three color filters 
respectively. In practice, ( )x   is realized by two receivers, ( )Lx   and ( )Sx  , two peaks of 
( )x  separated by a region of almost-zero response near 504nm [22], as a result, ( ) 0Lx    and 
( ) ( )Sx x   if the wavelength is shorter than 505nm, and ( ) 0Sx    and ( ) ( )Lx x   if the 
wavelength is longer than 505nm 
The error term in tristimulus values could be expressed as eq.(8) and eq.(9) for the illuminant A and 
measuring light sources of different TC. )(X , )(Y , )(Z  are briefed as ,A eE  and ,CT eE  with 
relative error e respectively, and the relative error ex, ey, ez are briefed as e.  
 
1~14
,
( ) ( ) ( ')  
14
A A i
i
A e
k k S R e d
E 
     

  

 
 (8) 
 
1~14
,
( ) ( ) ( ')  
14
C C
C
T T i
i
T e
k k S R e d
E 
     

  

 
 (9) 
3.2 DE 
The form of correcting function of ,0.1%CTE versus ,0.1%AE  of TC for any certain wavelength are 
presented by the Eq. (11). 
, ,CT e A e E
E E D    (11) 
Meanwhile, 
D
cos
E
E
D

  (12) 
where θ=tan-1(α).  
(a)ΔXS (b)ΔXL 
(c)ΔY (d)ΔZ 
Figure 5. DE⊥ in each channel, )(SX , )(LX , )(Y , )(Z . 
In Figure 5, DE⊥s are further concluded as  Eq. (13). 
2 2
1 2
1 2
1 2
( , ) exp expE C
C CD T A A D
B B
 
                            
, (13) 
where A1, B1, C1, D1, A2, B2, C2, and D2, are fitting parameters. All the fitting parameters are 
independent of the CCT and the wavelength.  
Therefore, the measurement errors ETC can be well predicted and provide with very good calibration 
references. 
4. Application 
.There are only three pieces of color filters in most commercial colorimeters, ( )Lx  , ( )y  , and ( )z  , 
due to the similar shapes of the spectral response of  ( )Sx   and ( )z  . In this case, ( )Sx  is realized 
Furthermore, the standard deviation of xnew, ynew, and Enew are small than xA, yA, and EA 
apparently, and the maximum values of standard deviation are tabled as the following. 
Table 1. Standard deviation, STDm 
 xA yA EA xnew ynew Enew 
STDm 2.51×10-3 1.23×10-3 2.71×10-3 1.24×10-3 3.18×10-4 1.38×10-3 
 
5. Conclusion 
In the general applications, the practical illuminating conditions are seldom fixed at illuminant D65 or 
illuminant A exactly. In this work, the impulse response analysis has been applied for the study in the 
chromaticity measurement deviation from the spectral mismatches of the color filters in colorimeters. 
The corresponding impulse transfer functions are obtained and shown in Fig. 1. A quantitative formula 
has thus been developed for the evaluation of the correction for the chromatic tri-stimulus values due 
the mismatch of the color filters under various CCT illumination condition (shown in Fig. 2). Based on 
this formula, the previously unknown deviation in the chromatic measurement under different CCT 
condition now can be further evaluated and reduced down to two orders lesser. 
After obtaining the capability to predict the tri-stimulus deviations as the CCT changing, the calibration 
for the colorimeters can be much improved and approach very high accuracy. Fig. 3 shows the test 
result of the new calibration procedure on some certain test color samples over CCT is 4500K, 6000K, 
7500K, and 9500K. Obviously, the accuracy is highly enhanced and also extended over a wide CCT 
range. 
In summary, the filter-type colorimeter with the calibration procedure according to our correction 
formula will perform much higher precision but still keep its simple and convenient use. 
6. Acknowledgement 
Authors would like to thank for the financial support from the Nation Science Council, Taiwan, under 
the grant number of NSC 100-3113-E-008 -001 -.  
References 
[1] GUILD, J. 1931. The Colorimetric Properties of the Spectrum. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. (London) 
A, 230, 149-187. 
[2] WRIGHT, W. D. 1929. A Re-determination of the Trichromatic Coefficients of the Spectral 
Colours. Trans. Opt. Soc. 30, 141-164. 
[3] WYSZECKI, G. 1982, Color Science: Concepts and Methods, Quantitative Data and Formulae, 
Wiley inter-science. 
[4] SWANK, H.  1937. A Calculator for Obtaining Tristimulus Values from Spectrophotometric Data. 
J. Opt. Soc. Am., 27, 27-12. 
[5] HUNTER, R. S. 1942. Photoelectric Tristimulus Colorimetry With Three Filters. J. Opt. Soc. Am. 
32, 509-511. 
[6] LOVIBOND, J. W. 1891. Tintometer. US patent no. 451,828. 
[7] OHNO, Y. 1997. Four-Color Matrix Method for Correction of Tristimulus Colorimeters. 
Proc.IS&T/SID Fifth Color Imaging Conference, 301, 305. 
[8] OHNO, Y. 1998. Four-Color Matrix Method for Correction of Tristimulus Colorimeters-Part 2. 
Proc.IS&T/SID Sixth Color Imaging Conference, 65, 68. 
[9] DAVIES, W. 1962. Physical Approximation Of Color-Mixture Functions. J.Opt.Soc.Am. 52, 
679–685. 
[10] WOLSKI, M. 1996. Optimization Of Sensor Response Functions For Colorimetry Ofreflective 
And Emissive Objects. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 5, 507-517. 
[11] EPPELDAUER, G. P. 2004. Design and Characterization of a Photometer-Colorimeter 
Standard. Appl. Opt., 43, 2621-2631. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/24
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 利用蛋白質與核酸工程技術解決發展蛋白分子馬達載具之瓶頸問題
計畫主持人: 郭泰志
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-038-008- 學門領域: 生化及生醫工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
正在努力中 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
