 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫期末報告 
新型全介電泳力式微流分類晶片用於細胞研究發展 
計畫編號：NSC 94－2212－E－006－106 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 10 月 31 日 
主持人：呂宗行 副教授   國立成功大學航太系 
計畫參與人員: 陳鴻瑩 博士 郭耀仁 碩士 國立成功大學航太系 
 
中文摘要 
本研究是藉由模擬與實驗，運用介電
泳力(Dielectrophoresis)為機制，將目標細
胞或顆粒，從一堆混合物中分離出來。粒
子分流晶片系統包含兩大部分，第一部分
為粒子聚焦系統，以介電泳力聚焦效應作
為主要設計；第二部份為粒子偏移系統，
使用介電泳效應作為主要設計，採用一般
微機電製程之合理尺寸範圍，進行微管道
流場與電極匹配設計，研究粒子移動狀
態，取得粒子運動軌跡的最佳參數，以作
為未來相關研究之參考值。由不均勻電場
產生的介電泳力被用來先將粒子聚焦於管
道的中心，成為一直線，再將粒子就其相
同的介電特性，但是不同的粒徑大小徧移
到不同的橫向位置。藉此不同的偏移位置
分別收集來達成分類的目的。由於本年度
之研究成果已被國內及國際性學術研討會
接受發表，故本報告將以英文撰寫。 
 
關鍵詞：介電泳、聚焦、生醫晶片 
 
Abstract 
Dielectrophoretic (DEP) flow sorters 
for continuously selecting particles (cells) of 
interest from a mixture of many samples 
were designed and studied.  DEP forces 
created by non-uniform electric fields are 
used as confining forces to 
three-dimensionally focus bio-particles into 
a single particle stream, as well as deflection 
forces to continuously sort the bio-particles 
in the micro sorter.    The key mechanism 
of the flow sorters that can focus and sort 
particles against fluid flows is demonstrated 
numerically and experimentally. 
Keywords: dielectrophoresis, focusing, 
biochip 
 
1. Introduction 
Sorting cells of interest from mixtures of 
various kinds of cells for cellomics studies is 
often required in many biomedical 
applications. It has been widely 
acknowledged that the effective sorting in 
many micro-fluidic and Lab-On-A-Chip 
devices provided many advantages over the 
conventional fluorescent activated cell 
sorting (FACS) [1], such as low 
consumption of samples without sacrificing 
sensitivity, closed system reducing the 
potential biohazard risks and preventing 
cross-contamination, and feasibility of 
making portable and disposable devices [2].  
Over the years, the scientists have developed 
many biological particle and cell handling 
microfluidic devices. For example, there are 
micro-fabricated fluorescence-activated cell 
sorting (µFACS) [3,4], magnetic-activated 
cell separation (µMACS) [4], automated 
single-cell sorting using dual-beam optical 
trapping [5], optoelectronic tweezers for 
particle manipulation [6], and 
micro-fabricated flow switch for sample 
injection and cell/part [7, 8].  Many 
microfluidic devices mentioned above 
employ the so-called “hydrodynamic 
focusing” mechanism in the micro-channel 
flow. For hydrodynamic focusing devices, 
they usually have two-dimensional 
structures with two sheath flow and one 
sample flow inlets.  The sample flow 
located in the middle is concentrated into a 
narrow stream by controlling the velocity 
ratios between sheath and sample flow.  
This is realized by adjusting flow rates of 
 4
are used to generate non-uniform electric 
fields when applying AC voltages among 
them.  Suspended biological particles 
flowing through the non-uniform electric 
fields are expected to experience DEP forces 
in X, Y and Z directions.   
The hydrodynamic force acting on a 
particle is given by  
DpfDcD C
DUUACUF )
4
()(
2
1
2
1 222 πρρ −== (3) 
where ρ is density of fluid, Uc is the relative 
velocity of fluid over a particle, A is 
projection area of a biological particle, CD is 
drag coefficient of a particle from particle 
drag model of CFD-ACE+ tool, Uf is the 
fluid velocity, Up is the particle velocity and 
D is the diameter of a biological particle. 
If Reynolds number of particle is less than 1 
(ReD<1), the hydrodynamic force acting on a 
bio-particle is given by in a similar manner 
as Stokes’ drag on a sphere in a flow.  The 
analytical expression of Stokes’ drag is 
given by the Stokes’ formula [14] 
D
DcD CUDF Re
24for       3 == µπ  (4) 
where D is the diameter of a bio- particle, µ 
is the viscosity of fluid, and Uc is the 
relative velocity of fluid over a particle, and 
CD is drag coefficient of a bio-particle. 
 
It is found that the bio-particle can be focus 
into a single particle stream, as shown in 
Figure 1(a) if the inlet average velocity is 
smaller than a trespassing velocity U0 < U0t.   
By operating the inlet velocity within the 
range of U0 < U0t, the DEP forces in both Y 
and Z directions confine the bio-particles 
along the centerline of contract electrodes 
and enter the sorting section of the micro 
sorter for further analysis.  However, if the 
inlet velocity is increased beyond the 
trespassing velocity U0t, the bio-particles 
will pass the contraction electrodes before 
focusing, as shown in U0 > U0t case of 
Figure 1(b). 
 
(2) Sorting channel section. 
In the sorting section, a pair of trapezoidal 
electrodes with incline angle α was designed 
in the sorting channel section, as shown in 
Figure 1(a).  For inlet velocity within U0 < 
U0t , particles (cells) will flow along the 
centerline and enter into sorting channel 
section.  In the sorting channel section, 
DEP forces are induced to deflect biological 
particles transversely from the centerline.  
The symbol ydeflection denotes the transverse 
deflection distance of a bio-particle (cell) at 
the exit of sorting channel section, as shown 
in Figure 1.  As the bio-particles (cells) go 
out the sorting channel section, they can be 
collected according to different deflection 
distances. 
3. SIMULATION 
In this study, the simulation was 
performed with the CFD-ACE+ software 
(CFD Research Corporation, Huntsville 
Alabama), a multi-physics package based 
on the Finite-Volume methods.  The 
program was run on a 2.4Ghz Pentium IV 
processor with 1GB of RAM memory.  
The mesh-independent test runs were made 
within the range between 80000 and 240000 
cells.  Although operated in the laminar 
flow regime, a rather fine mesh was needed 
to account for the detailed features of the 
sorting mechanism.  The time for each run 
spanned from 1 hour up to 12 hours. 
Four models, which are flow model, 
particle model, electric model and DEP 
force model, in CFD-ACE+ software will 
be used in the simulation. 
 
(1) Flow model 
The governing equations for the flow model 
represent mathematical statements of the 
mass and momentum conservation laws of 
physics for flow.  These two laws can be 
used to develop a set of equations (known as 
the Navier-Stokes equations) for 
CFD-ACE+ to solve numerically. 
 
(a) Mass Conservation 
Conservation of mass requires that the time 
rate of change of mass in a control volume 
 6
**
**
*
2
)(
mp
mpK εε
εεω +
−=  (12)
where, 
* mε  = complex permittivity of the 
surrounding medium 
* pε = complex permittivity of particle 
D= diameter of particle 
E = electric field strength         
The complex permittivity is defined as 
(where the subscript denotes either medium 
(f) or particle (p)) 
 ;
 
*
*
ω
σεε
ω
σεε
p
pp
f
ff
j
j
−=
−=
 (13)
where, 
σ= conductivity 
ω= angular frequency, ω=2πf 
f = frequency of AC field in Hz 
j=   
The net force applied to particle, including 
the Coulomb’s force, is given as 
EmEqF
rrrr )( ∇•+=  (14)
where q is that total charge carried by the 
particle. If the particle is uncharged, the net 
force will be contributed only by dipole 
moment and gradient of electric filed 
strength. The time average value (over one 
period of the AC field) is give by  
EmFF dep
rrrr )Re(
2
1 ∇•==  (15)
where Re refers to the real part.  Substitute 
Equation (11) into Equation (15), DEP force 
formula is shown in Equation (1). 
The modeling of DEP and hydrodynamic 
force fields of bio-particles are included in the 
numerical simulation. Parameters of 
polystyrene particles are used in simulation to 
validate the system. The properties of the 
polystyrene particles and surrounding medium 
are listed in Table 1.  Various parameters 
including applying voltages V, and inlet 
velocities U0  are studied to determine whether 
the particles can be focused in a given flow, as 
well as the trespassing velocity Uot.  In the 
mean time, the trajectories of the released 
particles in the sorting section are of particular 
interest.  The DEP force fields of X, Y, 
Z-directions within the sorting channel are 
simulated to study how well the particles 
could be deflected from a single particle 
stream.   
4. CHIP FABRICATION AND EXPERIMENTAL 
SETUP 
The chip fabrication will follow the 
numerical simulation results to fabricate a 
workable microsorter with the best 
performance  
 
Chip Fabrication.   
The chip fabrication processes are shown in 
Fig. 2(a).   The details of the chip 
fabrication processes including the 
following steps: (1) clean and deposit 
Chrome (Cr) and Aurum (Au) on a glass 
substrate sequentially by E-beam evaporator.  
The deposition thickness of Cr and Au are 
200 
o
A  and 2000 
o
A  respectively.  (2)~(4) 
Pattern the electrodes by photolithography. 
(5) Strip the AZ4620 by Acetone. (6) Place 
the two glass spacers on the bottom 
electrode chip to form the side walls of 
channel.  (7) Drill the fluid inlet and outlet 
holes in the top electrode chip with diamond 
drill, align the top electrode chip with and 
bottom chip under microscope and bond the 
chips with UV curable glue.  Fig. 2(b) and 
2(c) shows the 3D sketch and pictures of the 
DEP flow sorter chip after package.  
 
Experimental Setup.   
Two sets of electrical signal sources are 
required in this DEP flow sorter operation.  
One is for the focusing section; the other is 
 8
before the exit of the contraction electrodes, 
the influence time scales between X and Y 
(or Z) directions should have the following 
relations, i.e.    
)2( 
21
0 ZY U
hor
U
d
U
L ≥  (16a) 
where L, d1 and h are the contraction 
electrode length, contraction electrode initial 
spacing and micro sorter channel height, as 
shown in Figure 1, Uo, UY  and UZ  refer to 
the free stream average velocity, DEP 
induced particle velocities in Y and Z 
directions.  
Whether the particles could be focus, it 
can be determined by comparing the 
influence time scales between X and Y (or Z) 
directions.  Therefore, there exists a 
trespassing velocity.   The trespassing 
velocity Uot can be formulated as 
)
2
( 
21
0 ZYt U
hor
U
d
U
L =  (16b) 
Since the free stream average velocity Uo is 
a constant for a typical channel flow, the 
influence time in X direction during 
focusing is expected to be proportional to 
the contraction electrode length L divided 
by the free stream average velocity Uo.  On 
the left hand side of equation (16), the 
influence time in Y (or Z) direction can be 
approximated by the ratio between the 
contraction electrode spacing d1 (or channel 
height h) and the DEP induced particle 
velocity in Y-direction UY (or Z-direction 
UZ).  Since Reynolds number of particle is 
less than 1 (ReD<1), the DEP focusing forces 
for a particle are given by Stokes’ drag of 
Equation (4). Using Equations (1) and (4), 
the DEP induced Y-direction particle 
velocity can be proportional to
Y
E
∂
∂ )( 2 .  
Figure 5 shows a plot of the
Y
E
∂
∂ )( 2 term at 
different contract electrode angle θ along the 
electrode edge, as shown in dash line of a-a’ 
in Figure 1(a).  The
Y
E
∂
∂ )( 2 distribution in 
Figure 5 can be regarded as the normalized 
Y-direction focusing force (proportional to, 
but with opposite sign of, DEP force in 
Y-direction) since Re[K*(ω)] in Equation(2) 
equals to –0.035 in current simulation 
conditions.  The characteristics in Figure 5 
is that the focusing forces vary very little for 
all contract electrode angles until the 
contract electrode throat area is reached at 
X/L>0.9, after which it increase quickly.  
Apparently DEP force in Y-direction 
represents a focusing force and can be 
estimated as a constant value between 
0<X/L<0.9.  Therefore, DEP induced 
Y–direction particle velocity UY can be also 
approximated as a constant value.  
Therefore, using Equation (16b) to solve for 
the trespassing velocity Uot results in 
2~~ DLUot  (16c) 
where D is the diameter of particle.  
To valid our prediction, the trespassing 
velocities of various contract angles and 
their corresponding contraction electrode 
lengths are shown in Figure 6(a) and 6(b) 
when particle diameter is 25µm.  
Numerical simulation was used to determine 
the trespassing velocity.  The solid symbol 
represents the numerical results and a curve 
from analytic solution of Equation (16c) is 
plotted in the same figure for comparison.  
The comparison between the results from 
numerical simulation and analytic solution 
in Figure 6(b) is found to be in close 
agreement.  This not only validates the 
analytical model, but also gives insight into 
the physics behavior of particles in this 
novel dielectrophoretic micro sorter. 
 
Particle sorting (U0 > U0t) in sorting 
section 
As a particle moves within the sorting 
channel section, it deflected laterally in y 
direction.  There exist two forces acting on 
it.  One is the DEP force depF
r
, shown in 
Equation (1), the other is so called Stokes’ 
drag FD.  The y-coordinate of particle, as 
well as its relative velocity to the fluid in 
y-direction Uy, can be expressed by the 
following equation. 
 10
and 
Y
E
∂
∂ )( 2  at Z/h=0 plane of the DEP flow 
sorter.  As shown in Figure 7(a), the 
biological particle remains unaltered and 
moves along the centerline y=0 between 
x/B=0 and x/B=0.4.  The trajectory of the 
particle starts to deflect from the centerline 
before x/B=0.5.  Figure 8 suggest that the 
bio-particle is repelled from centerline y=0 
along the slant electrode by a negative DEP 
forces in the current chip.   
It is mentioned that a highly 
non-uniform electric field is desired to 
achieve a larger DEP force under finite 
sorting channel dimension constraints.  It is 
typically generated by a variety of electrode 
configurations.    Figure 9 illustrates the 
non-dimensional (ydeflection/(b/2)) of a 
diameter D=25µm polystyrene particle 
within DEP flow sorters.  DEP force is 
generated by 1MHz AC signal at different 
voltage Vpp from 10.0 to 20 volt.  For 
medium conductivity σ=0.01 S/m listed in 
Table 1, the particle deflection is 
underestimated when it compares with the 
experimental results.  As the medium 
conductivity σ is increased from 0.011 to 
0.012, it can be observed in Figure 9 the 
particle deflection is very close to the 
experimental data.  It suggests that the 
particle deflection is very sensitive to 
medium conductivity. 
5. Conclusion 
Dielectrophoretic (DEP) flow sorters for 
continuously selecting particles (cells) of 
interest from a mixture of many samples were 
studied numerically and experimentally. This 
research studied the mechanisms of 3D 
focusing and transverse displacements of the 
3D-focused particles within a DEP flow sorter.  
Two pairs of convergent electrodes with 
contraction angle θ are utilized to 3D 
focusing the particles into a single particle 
stream.    The DEP flow sorters are 
investigated for their capabilities under 
different operation parameters, including 
applying voltages and average velocities.  
DEP flow sorters are explored in this study.  
It is demonstrated that a trespassing velocity 
Uot can be defined for the present DEP flow 
sorter design.  When free stream average 
velocity Uo is smaller than trespassing 
velocity (Uo < Uot), particles can be 
successfully three dimensionally focus. The 
3D-focused particles can be further sorted by 
using a pair of trapezoidal electrodes design.  
Both numerical and experimental results 
show the DEP flow sorter can successfully 
discriminate the micrometer diameter 
differences by using calibrated polystyrene 
particles.  When free stream average 
velocity Uo is greater than trespassing 
velocity (Uo > Uot), particles fail in focusing 
and will trespass the contraction electrodes.   
The trespassing velocity Uot is found to be 
proportional to contraction electrode length L 
in the 3D focus channel section design.   
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
The authors would like to acknowledge the 
kind funding support from NSC Taiwan 
under the contract NSC-94-2212-E-006-106. 
REFERENCES 
[1] W. A. Bonner, H. R. Hulett, R. G. 
Sweet, “Fluorescence activated cell 
sorting”, Rev Sci Instrument, 1972, 
43:404-409 
[2] P. Telleman, U.D. Larsen, J. Kutter,  P. 
Friis,  and A. Wolff ,  ”Micro tools 
for cell handling”,  Proceedings in 
SPIE conference on microfluidic 
devices and systems, 2000 
[3] Anne Y. Fu, Charles Spence, Axel 
Scherer, Frances H. Arnold, and 
Stephen R. Quake, “A microfabricated 
fluorescene-activated cell sorter”, Nano 
Biotechnology, November 1999, 
Volume 17, Number 11, pp 1109–1111 
[4] P. Telleman, U. D. Larsen, J. Philip, G. 
Blankenstein, A. Wolff, “Cell Sorting in 
Microfluidic Systems”, Proc. Micro 
Total Analysis Systems’98, Banff, 1998, 
pp39-44 
[5] S. C. Grover, A. G. Skirtach, R. C. 
Gauthier, C. P. Grover, “Automated 
 12
 
(b) 
 
(c)  
Fig. 2 (a) The chip fabrication processes (b) 3D 
sketch and (c) photograph of the DEP flow sorter 
chip after package 
 
(a) 
(b) 
Fig. 3. Numerical simulation result of 
3D-focusing (a) the X-Y plane (top) view 
and (b)Y-Z plane (side) view of the particle 
trajectories 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 4. (a) 
Y
E
∂
∂ )( 2 and (b) 
Z
E
∂
∂ )( 2  gradient 
of the electric field square distribution in 
Y-Z plane at X/L=0, 0.5 and 1 
 
 
Fig. 5. The
Y
E
∂
∂ )( 2 curve at different contract 
electrode angles θ along the electrode edge 
a-a’ in Figure 1(a) 
 
 
(a) 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 94－2212－E－006－106 
計畫名稱 新型全介電泳力式微流分類晶片用於細胞研究發展 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
呂宗行 
成功大學航太工程學系副教授 
會議時間地點 中國珠海 (Zhuhai, China) 
會議名稱 2006 IEEE Int. Conf. on Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems. January 18-21, 2006, Zhuhai, China 
發表論文題目 Enhancement of Phase Change Heat Transfer by using Surface Energy Patterning Techniques 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
1st IEEE Int. Conf. on Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems., NEMS-2006)
為國際微奈米及分子系統研究發表重要研討會之一,今年第一次研討會在中國珠海舉
行,明年每年一次在亞洲地區各地舉行研討會，藉由參加 NEMS-2006 會議並發表論文,
目的在展示成功大學在對微奈米系統之研究成果，對台灣在此研究領域國際知名度及
參與國際會議指標有極大助益。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
今年第一屆 NEMS-2006 主席由香港中文大學的李文榮教授擔任，並選在中國珠海舉
行，世界各國參加人數約 200~300 人，為全世界有關微奈米及分子系統研究新型之國
際會議。 
今年大會安排 Keynote 演講共有三場: 
1. Prof. T. Fukuta. 
Title: Nano Sensor, Nano Actuator and Nano Manipulation 
2. Prof. C-J Kim (University of California, Los Angeles) 
 
Enhancement of Phase Change Heat Transfer by using 
Surface Energy Patterning Techniques 
Tzong-Shyng. Leu, Hung-Wen Lin, and Tseng-Hsin Wu 
Institute of Aeronautics and Astranautics, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan 
 
Abstract—Using phase change of working fluid to remove heat in 
a heat exchanger device is a high efficiency method.  When 
superheated vapor passes over a sub-cooled substrate, water 
droplets nucleate and grow by coalescence with the surrounding 
drops. The merging droplets exhibit two-dimensional random 
motion somewhat like the Brownian movements of colloidal 
particles. If surface energy patterns are designed on the substrate 
surface, the random condensing droplets will nucleate and grow 
to a certain size and move toward the more hydrophilic side of 
the surface.  Powered by this forces, condenser surface will not 
grow into film-wise condensation situation.  Thus condensation  
speeds are faster than those of typical surfaces without any 
surface modification. This effect has implications for passively 
enhancing heat transfer in heat exchangers or heat pipes.  
Keywords-surface energy patterning; droplet; Phase change; 
microscale heat exchanger 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
The phase change heat transfer in a vapor 
condenser can be enhanced by two important 
factors.  The first important factor is the speed of 
condensation, i.e. nucleation and growth rates of 
liquid droplet.  When superheated vapor passes 
over a sub-cooled substrate, numerous water 
droplets nucleate and grow by coalescence with the 
surrounding drops.  Typically speaking, the 
nucleation and growth rates for liquid droplets 
depend on surface energy properties of condenser.  
For water liquid, The condensation speed are 
usually faster on a hydrophilic surface than a 
hydrophobic surface.   However, Once condensing 
drops merge and form a complete liquid film 
covering the condensing surface, the condensation 
speed slows down since the liquid film causes a 
large thermal resistance that degrades the heat 
transfer efficiency.  In this case, condensation 
mechanism changes from drop-wise condensation 
to film-wise condensation. Therefore, the second 
important factor for phase change heat transfer 
enhancement is trying to prevent the film-wise 
condensation happening on the surface.  To 
achieve this goal, how to move liquid droplets away 
from the condensation surface becomes an critical 
technique.  As long as the surface is ready for new 
drop-wise condensation, high heat flux due to phase 
change can continuously sustain.   There are 
several techniques to cause droplet movements.  
For a conventional condenser, the droplets are 
dripping from the condensation surface due to 
gravity force.  In this case, droplets have to grow 
until a certain sizes before they can overcome the 
surface tension force and escape from the surface.  
The second technique is to move droplets results 
from unbalanced surface tension forces, constituting 
an important surface phenomenon known as the 
Marangoni effect (Fig. 1).  The usual Marangoni 
motions [1] are triggered by variations in 
temperature or composition on a liquid surface.  
The typical speeds of these flows (speeds ranging 
from micrometers to millimeters per second [2]) on 
a solid surface are too slow to have practical utility.  
Another technique that can also induce droplet 
motion is surface tension gradient of a solid 
substrate [3], as shown in Figure 2.  One can 
modify the surface with hydrophilic or hydrophobic 
composite areas. The droplets formed on the 
hydrophobic surfaces tend to move toward the 
hydrophilic surface.  Thus, the surface is always 
ready for new drop-wise condensation, phase 
change heat flux can be enhanced     In this paper, 
the vapor condensation on a surface with surface 
energy patterning is described.  New patterns of 
surface modification are investigated in which the 
vapor condensation efficiency is enhanced.   
II. SURFACE ENERGY PATTERNING TECHNIQUES 
The main challenge to enhance phase change heat 
transfer on a solid surface arises from how to create 
droplet self driven force on a surface.  Several 
surface energy patterning techniques have been 
presented [4-11].  Figure 3 shows the surface 
and d2 are the width and spacing between the 
modified patterns. For composite surface with 100
 m strip patterns, drop-wise condensation is 
visualized in Fig. 9.  For composite surface with 
1mm strip patterns, both film-wise and drop-wise 
condensations are identified in Fig. 10.  On the 
hydrophobic area of composite surface in Fig. 10 
(light color area), it appears to be drop-wise 
condensation.  On the hydrophilic area of 
composite surface in Fig. 10 (dark color area), it 
shows film-wise condensation.  The condensation 
droplets on the hydrophobic strips show the 
tendency to move toward the hydrophilic strip areas.  
For the composite surfaces in Fig. 9 and Fig. 10, the 
droplet is not only driven by gravity effect, but the 
unbalanced surface tension. From visualization 
results, The faster droplet downward moving speeds 
on the hydrophilic strips than those on completely 
hydrophilic surface of Fig.7 are observed.    
B. Heat flux measuremt results 
By using different flow rates of cooling water, one 
can measure the heat flux for various design of the 
condensation surface.  Figure 11 depicts the heat flux 
measure results for different condensation surface design.  The 
hydrophilic surface with contact angle 20 degree shows higher 
heat flux than that of the hydrophobic surface with 105 degree.  
Since the rate of nucleation and the droplet 
downward moving speed determine condensation 
heat flu,. From visualization results, the hydrophilic surface 
shows faster speeds in both nucleation and droplet movement.  
Therefore, the higher heat flux for hydrophilic surface is achieved.  
When a composite surface with strip patterns of 0.1mm is used, 
the heat flux becomes even worse than the hydrophobic surface.  
However, if a composite surface with strip patterns of 1.0 mm is 
used, the heat flux becomes greater than the hydrophilic 
surface .The droplets are not only driven by gravity, but the 
unbalanced surface tension on the composite surface,  For two 
major designs of composite condensation plates, the first design 
with vertical strip with 0.1mm shows that the droplets only move 
downward when droplets among many strips merge.  It indicated 
the droplet size need to be greater than a certain size before they 
will slide downward on a vertical plane.  Therefore, the size for 
droplet movement on a vertical plane is critical.  If one can 
accelerate the droplet merge, one can enhance the droplet moving 
speeds.  This idea can be confirmed and verified by the case of 
composite surface with strips of 1.0 mm.  Figure 12 is the 
enlarge area between the hydrophilic and hydrophobic surface 
interface in Figure 10. The experiment results show that drops 
condense near the interface area will move to the hydrophilic 
strips and merge the drops quickly.  For the strips with 1.0 mm, 
the droplet on this size can be moved by the gravity such that the 
condensation heat flux is enhanced effectively.   
V.CONCLUSION 
Phase change heat transfer is an important 
technique for heat exchanger industrial. This 
research optimally designs a surface that can 
condense vapor into droplets and move the droplets 
spontaneously by using MEMS technology. The 
main research methods are to control the surface 
energy distribution that produces self driving force 
for droplet movement. The emphasis is no any 
external energy required in the system. Generally 
speaking, condensation efficiency can be influenced 
by both physics and chemistry factors, including 
gravity, vapor flow field, vapor pressure, and the 
condensation surface conditions (surface moistly, 
promoter etc.). In this study, the surface 
modification methods are developed for condenser 
chips and verified the chips condensing efficiency 
by experiments.  The experimental results show 
that the condenser surface with strip pattern of 
1.0mm can achieve higher efficiency than ordinary 
surface. The mechanism is studied and found the 
random condensing droplets will nucleate and grow 
to a certain size and move toward the more 
hydrophilic side of the surface.  Powered by this 
force, condenser surface will not grow into 
film-wise condensation situation.  Thus 
condensation speeds are faster than those of typical 
surfaces without any surface modification. This 
effect has implications for passively enhancing heat 
transfer in heat exchangers or heat pipes.  
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors would like to acknowledge the 
kind funding support from NSC Taiwan and the 
facility support from Center of Micro/Nano 
Technology Research at National Cheng Kung 
University is greatly appreciated. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] John P.Longtin,Kunio Hilikata,Kuniyast Ogawa,“Laser-induced 
surface-tension-driven flows in liquids ”,Journal of heat transfer , 
PP.85-93,1998 
[2] Wasan, D. T., Nikolov, A. D., and Brenner, H., 2001, “Fluid Dynamics : 
Droplets Speeding on Surfaces,” Science, Vol. 291, pp. 605-606. 
[3] Daniel, S., Chaudhury, M. K., and Chen, J. C., 2001, “Fast Drop 
Movements Resulting from the Phase Change on a Gradient Surface,” 
Science, Vol. 291, pp.633-636. 
[4] T.G.Ruardy a,J.M.Schakenraadb, H.C.van der Meia,H.J.Busschera,* 
Surface science reports 29 (1997) 1-30 
[5] M.K.Chaudhury and G.M. Whitesides, Science256(1992)1539 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
 
(c) 
Fig. 5  (a) The surface energy patterning, (b)its contact angle  (WCA) as a 
function of modified area ratio (AR) ,(c) Contact angle change on a surface 
tension gradient surface 
 
 
Fig.6 Vapor condensation experimental setup with surface energy patterning 
(1: steam generator, 2: hot plate, 3: condensing chamber, 4: Surface 
modified condensing plate, 5:condensing liquid exit, 6: Volume meter, 7: 
Valve, 8: Reservoir, 9: pump, 10: Valve, 11:flow meter, 12: cooling fin heat 
exchanger, 13: mixer. 14: heat insulation material) 
 
 
 
Fig.7 Nucleation and droplet condensation on a hydrophilic surface with 
contact angle of 20 degree 
 
 
 
Fig.8 Nucleation and droplet condensation on a hydrophobic surface with 
contact angle of 105 degree 
