compatibly to those with metal electrodes fabricated 
using thermal vapor deposition.  These results 
demonstrate the implantation process does not damage 
functions of the devices, thus it is applicable to 
interconnector fabrication. 
For the laser transfer printing technique, by 
introducing a sacrificial layer to absorb thermal 
energy from CO2 laser pulses, we propose a new laser 
transfer method for printing patterned aluminum and 
silver thin films on flexible substrates.  The 
minimum line width is 40 μm.  The transferred metal 
thin films have good conductivity, adhesion, and 
surface roughness.  When they are used as source and 
drain in organic thin-film transistors, the devices 
show compatible characteristics as those with 
electrodes fabricated by thermal vapor deposition. 
英文關鍵詞： Laser-induced implantation, laser-induced transfer, 
Nd:YAG laser, CO2 laser, grahene oxides, patterning 
thin-film electrodes, transparent electrodes. 
 
 i
中文摘要 
本研究旨在開發創新雷射製程技術，用以製作電極，並將其應用於有機光電電子元件，
期望能取代傳統的真空鍍膜製程，降低製程成本。本報告，介紹了本計畫所開發的兩項新技
術雷射植入金屬粒子於已封裝之元件做為連接線與雷射轉印金屬薄膜作為電極。 
在雷射植入方面，我們植入銀於聚乙烯醇中且具有一定程度之導電性，植入的深度隨著
雷射發數增加而亦隨之增加，最大植入深度可達 6 m，並將此製程應用於封裝後的高分子發
光二極體與有機薄膜電晶體中做為連接線，元件依舊可正常運作並未因雷射處理過程而造成
損壞。 
雷射轉印方面，我們發表了創新的雷射熱轉印製程，利用二氧化碳雷射的熱效應配合小
分子犧牲層材料，成功轉印圖案化之鋁與銀薄膜至軟性基板上，最小線寬為 40 m，轉印後
之金屬導電性、黏著性與表面粗糙度均佳，並將轉印後之金屬薄膜應用於軟性薄膜電晶體中
作為源極與汲極。 
關鍵字： 
雷射植入、雷射轉印、釹釔鋁石榴石雷射、二氧化碳雷射、氧化石墨烯、薄膜圖案化電極、
透明電極 
 
Abstract 
Three novel laser-based techniques for fabricating metallic electrodes are proposed in this 
study.  They are applicable to organic electronics and optoelectronics and are developed aiming to 
be alternatives to today’s often-used physical vapor deposition methods on which a vacuum 
environment is must be.  These two methods are laser implantation of metal as an interconnector 
and laser transfer printing patterned metallic thin film as electrodes.  
For the laser implantation technique, first, implantation of metallic silver into a poly(vinyl 
alcohol) thin film using pulsed laser irradiation is separately studied.  It is found the implanted 
silver can form a metal wire with acceptable conductivity and the implantation depth is increased 
with the number of laser pulses.  The maximum implantable depth is around 6 μm.  Then, this 
technique is applied to implant silver into already encapsulated organic devices: polymeric light 
emitting diodes (PLEDs) and organic thin-film transistors(OTFTs) as interconnectors.  Results 
show that these devices work properly and the device performances are compatibly to those with 
metal electrodes fabricated using thermal vapor deposition.  These results demonstrate the 
implantation process does not damage functions of the devices, thus it is applicable to 
interconnector fabrication. 
For the laser transfer printing technique, by introducing a sacrificial layer to absorb thermal 
energy from CO2 laser pulses, we propose a new laser transfer method for printing patterned 
aluminum and silver thin films on flexible substrates.  The minimum line width is 40 μm.  The 
transferred metal thin films have good conductivity, adhesion, and surface roughness.  When they 
are used as source and drain in organic thin-film transistors, the devices show compatible 
characteristics as those with electrodes fabricated by thermal vapor deposition. 
Keywords: 
Laser-induced implantation, laser-induced transfer, Nd:YAG laser, CO2 laser, grahene oxides, 
patterning thin-film electrodes, transparent electrodes. 
 
 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2-1. Schematic showing  two types of laser transfer. (a) Laser –induced forward transfer, LIFT. 
(b) Laser-induced backward transfer, LIBT. 
 
   
Fig. 2-2. (a) Schematic description of the apparatus for metal deposition from a solid-phase 
precursor.  The source material and target are in contact during an actual experiment. (b) SEM 
image of deposition obtained by single pulse irradiation with a 110 mJ pulse at 193 nm [1]. 
2‐1.1 Laser Transfer of Metals 
At the beginning, the laser transferwas used to transfer metals. There were  many kinds of 
metals transferred by laser-induced transfer, such as tungsten [2], InOx, Cr, Pt [3-4], V2O5 [5], ZnO 
[6] and others[7-8].  Fig. 2-3 shows laser transferred InOx and Cr onto a quartz substrate.  Fig. 
2-3(a) shows the SEM (Scanning Electron Microscopy) images of laser transferred InOx and Fig. 
2-3(b) shows AFM (Atomic Force Microscope) images of transferred Cr.  Fig. 2-3 shows the 
transferred metal thin films were in bad surface roughness.  Fig. 2-4 shows the images of the CuPc 
film remaining on the support after laser transfer and the transferred CuPU patterns on the 
(a) 
(b) 
Laser 
beam 
Laser 
beam 
Lens 
Transparent 
support 
Transparent 
Acceptor 
Source 
material 
Acceptor 
Support 
Transferred 
material 
(b) (a) 
 4
  
Fig. 2-5. LIFT allows the transfer of Au in (a) gaseous-like, (b) liquid-like and (c) solid-like phases 
[10]. 
2‐1.2 Laser transfer for biomaterials 
Laser-induced transformation of materials has been applied to many kinds of biomaterials 
because of its low processing temperature and its ability of executing photochemical process by UV 
laser treatment.  The photochemical process will be described later.  It will not degrade the 
biomaterials during laser transfer process.  Thus, laser transfer has been widely use for transferring 
biomaterials [11-14].  Fig. 2-6 shows the laser-induced forward transfer applied to patterning DNA.  
The laser used was an Nd:YAG laser (λ = 355 nm, pulse duration = 10 ns).  The transferred DNA 
was still active[15].  The patterned biomaterials were usually prepared for biosensors [16]. 
 
Fig.2-6. Optical microscopy image of the droplets obtained immediately after laser-induced forward 
transfer of a buffer solution film at different laser pulse energies [15]. 
2‐1.3 Laser transfer for polymers 
Laser transfer can be used to deposit polymer [17-18] as well. The light source of laser transfer 
polymer is UV laser because  polymers usually have  good absorptivity to the UV light.  
Transferring polymers by visible and IR lasers will result in bad transfer results [19].  Fig. 2-7 
shows laser transferred PEDOT:PSS (poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene)-poly(styrenesulfonate)) by 
a laser with wavelength at 248 nm.  It shows that relatively better pattern ability and surface 
morphology could be achieved than those from transferring using metals.  However, the surface 
 6
plume, possible transfer mechanisms were proposed.  This method could estimate the velocity of 
the ejected plume.  In general, the velocity of the ejected plume was 100 m/s at least.  In addition 
to experimental studies, there was a numerical model developed to investigate the thermal processes 
that initiate LIFT [28].  Willis and Grosu transferred Al and Ni with laser fluence slightly above 
the melting threshold [29].  The mechanism was based on the laser thermal effect and ledto 
material melting. Since the liquid phase has a lower density (higher specific volume) than the solid 
phase, the film normally expands as it is melted.  In LIFT, the thin film on the support, at the 
beginning, is heated mainly restricted at region close to the interface. rather thanthe whole film, thus 
the film expansion is restricted until the melt interface reaches the free surface. The intensity of 
laser beam has a Gaussian distribution in space, thus when the fluence was slightly above the 
melting threshold, only a small portion of the melt interface around the beam center  could reach 
the free surface as shown in Fig. 2-9.  When this happened, the melt region was no longer 
constrained but allowed expansion through a small region in the free surface that generated liquid 
droplets and formed film protrusions. At higher fluences, the droplet expulsion was not observed 
since other phenomena, such as melt motion due to surface tension gradients, vaporization, and 
boiling of the film, became dominant.  
While the laser pulse duration is within femtoseconds [30], the temperature of the constrained 
interface cab be increased quickly to the melting point within several picoseconds.  However, 
normal boiling cannot happen in melted thin film because there is no enough time to generate 
heterogeneous bubbles.  So the region of constrained interface of the thin film is heated very 
quickly across the boiling point; i.e., phase explosion happens.  At this moment, the plasma with 
high temperature and high pressure is formed in the constrained interface.  At the same time, the 
free surface of the film is exactly melted, as shown in Fig. 2-10.  So the melted film is pushed out 
of the surface by the pressure of the plasma generated at the interface between the film and the 
support substrate.  Because metal in liquid phase has very high surface tension and the push force 
of the plasma is moderate, the material is transferred and deposited onto the acceptor substrate in 
the form of liquid droplet.  The transferred material size could be at sub-laser spot size printing 
[31]. 
     
Fig.2-9 Schematic diagram of laser heating of the donor film, (a) at a time early in the laser pulse, 
(b) at the moment the melt interface reaches the free surface, the expanding melt is no longer 
constrained [29]. 
 8
heated up by the laser energy and expanded that would lead to a marked increase of the free volume 
in the polymer and help the molecules to move more vigorously in the source film and ejected from 
the polymer matrix.  The ejected molecules, with high translational energies, might cause a local 
heating of the target surface that helped their diffusions into the target film.  The target film could 
also be heated through close contact with the source film.  Thus, the implantation efficiency was 
found to be increased in the contact mode.  Based on laser induced thermally activated diffusion, 
molecule implantation was achievable even when the laser fluence was less than the ablation 
threshold [34].  Later, this technique was applied to doping space-selective photochromic 
molecules for fabricating molecular photo-switching devices [35], molecular aggregates in a 
polymer film [36], and dye molecules for polymer electroluminescent devices [37].  The AFM 
images show the surface after laser-induced implantation at one pulse (Fig. 2-12(a)) and 10 pulses 
(Fig. 2-12(b)).  The images show the surface morphologies are not well after laser-induced 
implantation. 
  
Fig.2-11 Schematic illustration of the laser-induced molecular implantation [36]. 
 
 
Fig. 2-12 AFM images of target surfaces irradiated by the laser pulses of (a) 1 shot, (b) 10 shots 
[36]. 
With integrations of optical fiber to deliver laser light and 100-nm aperture micropipette as 
source film support, laser induced implantation was able to dope functional organic molecules, with 
feature size of hundreds of nanometer, on a polymer film [38-40].  The experiment setup is shown 
in Fig. 2-13.  The fine spatial control for placing functional organic molecules in a designated 
region has potential applications in optoelectronics and biotechnology.  The AFM image in Fig. 
2-13 shows the surface after laser implantation with micropipette.  The surface is rough after laser 
implantation. 
 
 10
2‐3 Laser transfer with a sacrificial layer 
Laser transfer has been widely used for transfer of many materials.  But the properties of 
transferred materials, such as surface morphology, crystallization, and electrical conductivity, are 
usually not very well. That is because the transferred materials are easily to be damaged during the 
laser irradiation.  Adding a sacrificial layer is an often-used method to protect the transferring 
materials.  The sacrificial layer is placed inbetween the support substrate and the layer of the 
material to be transferred. 
Sacrificial layer also called as a dynamic release layer (DRL).  It should have the feature of 
low laser ablation threshold that can prevent  thermalization of the transfer material during  laser 
irradiation.  There are several kinds materials that have been used for the sacrificial layer.  In 
general, the materials can be classified into three types: metal, polymer and others.  Fig. 2-15 
shows the experiment setup for laser transfer with different sacrificial layer [42]. 
 
Fig. 2-15 Laser transfer with different types of sacrificial layer. (i) before and (ii) at the  initial 
stages of material transfer. (a) Without any sacrificial layer, (b) with a metal film as the absorptive 
layer, (c) with a polymer film as the absorptive layer [42]. 
2‐3.1 Metal sacrificial layer 
Metal is the earliest and the most used material for laser transfer.  Deservedly, it is applied for 
sacrificial layer in laser transfer.  The metal sacrificial layer can be used for transfer organic 
materials [43] and biomaterials [44] with KrF excimer laser (λ= 248 nm).  Fig. 2-16(a) shows the 
experiment setup of laser transfer with metal sacrificial layer and (b) and (c) show patterns of the 
transferred phosphor materials.  Although the metal sacrificial layer makes the transferred 
materials be in good pattern and do not damage, the surface roughness is still not well which show 
in Fig. 2-16(b) (c) [43].  Not only metal thin film, metal nanoparticles are also used for a sacrificial 
layer. The silver nanoparticles are also used for a sacrificial layer to transferred 
tris-(8-hydroxyduinoline)Al (Alq3) with the laser wavelength in 532 nm.  The experiment setup 
and transferred results show in Fig. 2-17. Although the patterning ability of nanoparticle sacrificial 
layer is better than the metal thin film, the surface roughness of transferred material is still not well 
which shows in Fig. 2-17(c). The non-uniform surface is because of the residual sacrificial material 
after laser transfer [45]. Hirano has transferred organic materials for large-sized organic light 
emitting diode with molybdenum (Mo) sacrificial layer and named the process as laser-induced 
pattern-wise sublimation (LIPS).  Fig. 2-18 shows the experiment setup and transferred results. 
Although the transferred materials are good enough to be the light emitting layer in OLED, the 
process should be proceeding in vacuum. It will increase the cost [46]. 
 
 12
As Fig. 2-21 shows the polymer light emitting diode (PLED) devices fabricated using triazene 
polymer as the sacrificial layer to transfer bilayered Al and MEH-PPV (poly[2-methoxy 
-5-(2-ethylhexyloxy)-1,4- phenylenevinylene]) thin films.  The transferred results are shown in Fig. 
2-21 (b) and (c).  Although the surface roughness of transferred material is good enough for a 
PLED device, there are some cracks on the surface.  That was because of the non-uniform stress 
during laser transfer process.  
 
Fig. 2-19 Hypothesised process leading to low forward transfer threshold fluence when using 
ultrashort pulses [49]. 
 
Fig. 2-20 Formula of the triazene polymer [50-54]. 
 
   
Fig. 2-21 (a) Scheme of the transfer principle. (b) Transferred Al/MEHPPV bilayer materials and 
the transferred pixel in operation (c) [54]. 
Polymer sacrificial layer is not only for a single layer placed between supporting substrate and 
(a) 
(b) (c) 
 14
  
Fig. 2-24 (a) SEM images of laser-printed Ag lines on glass substrates using 5μm diameter laser 
spot sizes. Insets in (a) show the AFM 3D images belonging to this laser-printed Ag lines after 
curing at 150 ℃. (b) SEM image showing the surface microstructure of a laser-printed Ag line after 
curing at 150 ℃ [58]. 
 
 
Fig. 2-25 Output characteristics of pentacene TFTs (W = 2.5 mm and L = 50 μm) fabricated with (a) 
BC and (b) TC configurations [58]. 
2‐3.4 Laser‐induced thermal spray printing 
Laser–induced thermal spray printing (LITPS) is a laser transfer process with air as the 
sacrificial layer to deposit plasma display panel (PDP).  Fig. 2-26 shows the schematic of the 
LITSP process.  The laser wavelength is 1080 nm that possesses a relatively better photothermal 
effect.  The donor substrate is etched stainless steel and the etched holes of the donor plate were 
filled with the phosphor paste using the squeegee.  There will be a bubble between donor and PDP.  
The bubble is thermally expanded during the laser irradiation and pushes PDP materials leaving 
donor.  Fig. 2-27 shows the transfer results, the transferred PDP in bad surface roughness (Fig. 
2-27(a)). The light illumination shows the transferred PDP would not be damaged by LITPS (Fig. 
2-27(b)) [59]. 
 
Fig. 2-26 Schematic of the LITSP process [59]. 
(a) (b) 
 16
uneven surface, especially around the PVA/silver interface.  However, the surface profile, 
measured by a stylus surface profiler and shown in Fig. 3-2(b), indicates that the values of the 
root-mean-square (RMS) roughness for the PVA region and for the implanted silver region are 13 
nm and 28 nm, respectively. The good surface roughness is conjectured due to the high-temperature 
ejected silver particles that help to reflow and smooth the target surface. A high peak in Fig. 3-2(b), 
occurring around the location of 600 m, is due to larger evaporated particle clusters. 
The cross-sectional SEM images showing the distribution of the implanted silver particles in 
the PVA film subjected to laser pulses of 1, 3, 5, 10 and 15 are shown in Fig. 3-3(a)–(e), 
respectively. Fig. 3-3(a) indicates the ejected silver clusters/particles could straightforwardly 
penetrate into the PVA film up to 1 m.  Fig. 3-3(b)–(e) depict that the following ejections, 
vaporized by the subsequent laser shots, were able to keep pushing the infiltration process and 
continue to increase the penetration depth.  The depth of penetration was about 2 m for 3 pulses 
and that was accumulated roughly to about 6 m if 15 laser pulses were employed.  Fig. 3-4 shows 
the depth of penetration as a function of the number of laser pulses.  It reveals that the penetration 
depth increased approximately linearly with the increase of laser pulses at the beginning and 
gradually tended to a saturated value as the number of laser pulses was over 10.  The reachable 
penetration depth was about 6 m under the current studied laser fluence.  For the present device 
configurations, the thickness of the passivation layer was 2 m, i.e. the interconnect wire can 
completely be fabricated within 5 laser pulses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3-1 Schematic the fabricate steps of laser-induced implantation. 
Ag (Source film) 
Glass support 
PVA (Target film) 
Glass 
Laser beam 
λ=1064 nm 
d 
Glass support
PVA (Target film)
Glass
d
 
Glass support
PVA (Target film) 
Glass 
Glass support
Glass
Laser beam 
λ=1064 nm 
(a) (b) 
(c) (d) 
Ejections 
 18
Pulses
0 5 10 15 20
D
ep
th
( m
)
0
2
4
6
8
 
Fig. 3-4 Penetration depth as a function of number of laser pulses. 
In laser-induced implantation of organic molecules into solid polymer films, the transfer 
material was first doped in another polymer source film [33-36]. The molecule implantation was 
mainly driven by the thermally activated diffusion and thus the process was executable even when 
the laser fluence was below the source-film ablation threshold.  To probe the implantation 
mechanism in this study, the disposition of the incident laser energy is analyzed.  Under the 
present source film configuration, the laser light should pass through both the support glass and the 
source film to reach the PVA film on the target substrate.  The absorption coefficient of silver to 
the 1064 nm light is 0.0852 nm-1 [60].  The corresponding theoretical light absorption penetration 
depth is around 12 nm that is much smaller than the thickness of the silver film (300 nm).  Besides, 
the PVA is very transparent to the employed incident laser light, as shown in Fig. 3-5.  
Consequently, the possibility of heating the target PVA layer up directly by the incident laser light 
can be ruled out.  Thus, as the laser irradiation propagates toward to the support, except for the 
very small portion of energies that are reflected and absorbed by the transparent glass, the main 
energy that transmits to the transparent glass support is absorbed by the silver film.  This 
immediate energy absorption rapidly increases the temperature rise of the silver film and causes the 
silver to change its phases from solid to liquid and vapor.  This instantly temperature rise and 
evaporation induces a high vapor pressure and provides a thrust to expel the high-temperature 
ejections (particles, clusters, and/or droplets) in a rocket-like motion toward the target at high speed.  
In their time-resolved study of LIFT transfer of Trichoderma longibrachiatum conidia, the speed of 
the ejection can be as high as 1150 m/s [11]. 
400 800 1200
60
80
100
 
 
 
Fig. 3-5 UV-vis spectrum of PVA. 
Process numb r 
Wavelength (nm) 
Tr
an
sm
itt
an
ce
 (%
) 
 20
addition to a little bit reduction in the source/drain currents (Ids), Fig. 3-7(b) shows the principal 
device characteristics and the on/off ratio that revealed in Fig. 3-7(a) were reserved.  The mobility 
was reduced from 4.49×10-3 cm2/Vs in Fig. 3-7(a) to 2.95×10-3 cm2/Vs in Fig. 3-7(b). The 
potential reasons for this mobility reduction were conjectured due to the possible interface 
deformation between polymer semiconductor and the source/drain electrodes or owing to additional 
traps at contact interfaces between the gold electrode and the silver interconnects that were 
introduced during the laser implantation process. 
 
 
Fig. 3-7 Typical I–V characteristics of OTFTs. (a) Before PVA encapsulation. (b) After 
encapsulation and with laser embedded interconnects. 
The device performance of the encapsulated PLED with laser-induced implanted interconnect 
was characterized. Fig. 3-8 shows the operating I–V curve.  The turn-on voltage was at 7 V that 
corresponded to a turn-on current of 9.02 × 10-4 A and the device broke down at a voltage of 24 V.  
These characteristics again deviated very little from those before encapsulation.  The inset in Fig. 
3-8 shows the PLED using laser-implanted interconnects still exhibits a good uniformity of 
electro-luminescence. 
 
 
Fig. 3-8 I–V characteristics of encapsulated PLED using laser embedded interconnects. The inset 
shows the luminescence of the PLED. 
 
Dark area 
Luminance 
area 
Vg= 0V Vg= 0V 
-10V -10V 
-20V -20V 
-30V 
-30V 
-40V 
-40V 
I D
 (
A
) 
VD (V)
(a) (b)
 22
films (d=0) be contact to achieve the best implantation. 
4. Laser Transfer Metal Thin Film on Flexible Substrates as Electrodes 
In order to transfer patterned metal thin film, we combine LTPM with rapid PDMS lift-off 
process.  Referring to Fig. 4-1 (a), a sacrificial layer and a metallic thin film, both having a 
thickness of 100 nm, were deposited on a glass support by thermal evaporation. Pentacene (Aldrich, 
P1802-1G, boiling point: 529 ) was employed as the sacrificial material as this℃  was able to 
provide a flat interface for the subsequent deposition of metal; it also possessed proper adhesional 
work for the later rapid lift-off process.  In addition, it is a material frequently used as the 
semiconducting layer for OTFTs and thus the effect of laser evaporation residuals or debris on the 
performance of the device was minimized.  The resulting transfer pattern on the glass support was 
then generated by a rapid lift-off process using a PDMS stamp with the electrode’s complementary 
pattern, Fig. 4-1 (b).  The patterned glass support was placed over a polyethylene terephthalate 
(PET, TORAY, T-type PET film, 125μm in thickness) acceptor substrate placed on an aluminum 
block.  A pulsed CO2 laser (SYNRAD Series 48-2 laser, λ = 10600 nm, spot size = 3.5 mm, 
TEMOO equivalent: 95% purity), operating under a fluence of 8.8 mJ/cm2 and at a repetition rate 
of 5 kHz, provided the energy for transferring the patterned film, Fig. 4-1 (c).  After 5 seconds of 
irradiation, the pentacene evaporated and the patterned electrode was deposited on the acceptor, Fig. 
4-1(d). 
Fig. 4-1 (e) and (f) show the optical microscope images of the aluminum line patterns on the 
surfaces of the PDMS mould and the glass support, respectively, after the rapid lift-off process and 
up to the fabrication step depicted in Fig. 4-1 (b).  These pictures show that the area of the 
aluminum film in contact with the PDMS mould can be peeled from the pentacene surface and the 
desired pattern for transfer accurately remained on the glass support.  A fast peel rate was expected 
to increase the weak adhesion energy between the mould and the metal film; the rapid lift-off 
process was practicable only when this energy overcame the adhesional work at the 
metal–pentacene interface.  Thus, in addition to low sublimation favourable for laser evaporation, 
a substance with low adhesion work to the metal film was essential when it served as the sacrificial 
material. In this regard, the use of pentacene as the material for the sacrificial layer was appropriate. 
The properties of the transferred thin films were first qualitatively characterized by examining 
their surface morphologies using field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM Hitachi 
4800I).  Fig. 4-2(a) shows the SEM image of an aluminum film deposited on the pentacene layer 
by thermal evaporation.  Fig. 4-2(b) shows the surface image for the aluminum film after it has 
been transferred on to the PET substrate by the LTPM.  Similarly, SEM images for a silver film 
deposited upon the pentacene layer and transferred on the PET substrate by the LTPM are shown in 
Fig. 4-3(a) and (b), respectively.  The insets in the four figures show the images with a higher 
magnification factor.  The surface profiles of the formed films were also quantitatively examined 
by atomic force microscopy (AFM, Veeco Dimension 3100).  Fig. 4-2(c) and 4-2(d) are the AFM 
images for Fig. 4-2(a) and (b), respectively, while Fig. 4-3 (c) and (d) show the AFM images 
corresponding to Fig. 4-3(a) and (b). 
Compared with Fig. 4-2(a), the film transferred by the LTPM, shown in Fig. 4-2(b), obviously 
shows better surface uniformity.  This was due to the absorbed laser energy for film transfer which 
induce a temperature rise on the film and thereby provide energy to thermally anneal the film and 
provide improved surface morphology.  The AFM images in Fig. 4-2(c) and (d) clearly point out 
the difference in surface uniformity.  The measured roughness Ra (arithmetical mean roughness) 
value for Fig. 4-2(c) was 5.71 nm and was reduced to 3.98 nm for Fig. 4-2(d). 
 
 
 24
lower than that of silver (962 ◦C).  It is conjectured that the laser-induced thermal energy was 
sufficient to cause fusion of the aluminum film.  Thus, the grains were able to be merged well. For 
the silver film, this energy could lead to grain growth but was inadequate to cause its fusion. 
 
   
 
     
 
Fig. 4-2 (a) and (b) are the SEM images comparing the surface morphologies of the same Al film 
before (on the pentacene layer) and after (on the PET substrate) the laser thermal printing method. 
The insets here show high magnified images. (c) and (d) are the AFM images for examining the 
surface roughness of (a) and (b), respectively. 
It is also noted that the surface roughness of the silver film, after the laser transfer printing, 
was reduced to an extent more than that given by the aluminum film. Fig. 4-2(b) shows there are 
‘dendritic structures’ on the resulting Al film.  These structures were speculated to be formed from 
a spatially non-uniform and rapid cooling rate of the molten metal film.  Since the melting 
occurred on the thin metal film over a relatively short duration while the bulk substrate remained 
cool, the molten metal would solidify and crystallize at an extremely high and non-uniform rate.  
The dendritic structures prevented further reduction in the surface roughness of the Al film. 
The change in electrical property of the metallic films before and after the laser transfer 
process was examined by comparing their resistivity.  The results showed that the differences 
before and after the laser transfer process for both Al and Ag films were negligible.  The measured 
values were around 2.95×10-6 Ωcm (2.82×10−6 Ωcm in theory, 4.6% deviation) for the Al films and 
1.68×10−6 Ωcm (1.59×10−6 Ωcm in theory, 5.7% deviation) for the Ag films, respectively. 
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
0.2 0.2 
1.0 (m) 1.0 (m) 
0.6 0.6 
10
0 
(n
m
) 
10
0 
(n
m
) 
 26
profiler, is given in Fig. 4-4(d).  It indicates that the outward appearance of the electrode is printed 
well and shows the thickness of the printed film is around 88 nm; less than the 100 nm thickness 
initially found on the support.  This was likely due to a small portion of the printed electrode being 
embedded into the softened PET during the laser printing process; because of this, a better adhesive 
electrode was obtained.  A later adhesion test further confirmed this speculation.  Fig. 4-4(e) is an 
enlarged sketch of the circled region of Fig. 4-4(d) that was demonstrated for observing the pattern 
edge.  The height of the pattern increased from 0 nm at the location of 35 μm to 84 nm at 38 μm, 
which showed a pattern with a sharp edge slope, roughly of 28 nm/μm, can be obtained.  Fig. 4-4(e) 
demonstrates that the proposed scheme was also applicable for printing Ag electrodes where the 
line width and film thickness were 40 μm and 100 nm, respectively. 
 
Fig. 4-4 Patterned electrodes printed on PET substrates. (a) CCD image of the line-patterned Al 
electrodes. The inset demonstrates that the substrate was under a large flexure. (b) SEM image 
indicating the line width was 100 μm. The magnified image showing the electrode surface is given 
in the inset. (c) SEM picture of the Al electrodes with a line width of 40 μm. (d) Cross-sectional 
contour for the electrodes shown in (c). (e) An enlarged sketch from the encircled region of (d) 
showing the pattern’s edge resolution. (f) Printed Ag electrodes with a line width of 40 μm. 
The adhesion test was based on a tape pull test using 3M 600 adhesive tape. Two individual Al 
thin films were compared, each with an area of 1 mm2 and fabricated on separated PET substrates 
by thermal evaporation and LTPM, respectively.  The thermally evaporated Al thin film for the 
control experiment was deposited at a rate of 0.2 nm s−1 and patterned by a metal mask.  The 
 28
a 20 nm-thick pentacene film. Poly(4-vinylphenol), PVP, with a coating thickness of 1000 nm was 
used as the insulating layer and a 300 nm-thick poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene), PEDOT, 
deposited by the contact printing technique was employed as the gate electrode. In this feasibility 
test, all the fabrication and characterization processes, except the process of deposition of the 
pentacene sacrificial layer, were executed in ambient environment. Output characteristics showing 
drain currents, IDS, as functions of drain voltage, VDS, at various gate voltages, VG, are given in Fig. 
4-6(b). The on/off ratio was 1.1 × 102 and the calculated device mobility was 5.3 × 10−2 cm2 V−1 s−1.  
These characteristics were comparable to those of devices with electrodes fabricated by the thermal 
deposition or contact printing methods. 
    
(a)                                      (b) 
Fig. 4-6 (a) Schematic showing the configuration of a top-gate bottom-contact organic thin-film 
transistor based on Ag source/drain electrodes fabricated by LTPM. (b) Output characteristics 
showing drain current versus drain voltage at various gate voltages for the OTFT shown in (a). 
5. Conclusions 
In summary, we present two novel laser fabrication methods to fabricate electrodes that are 
applicable to organic electronics. For laser implantation, we report on a new approach for 
embedding electronic interconnects based on the laser-induced implantation. The transfer source 
material is silver and the target film is poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA).  The silver film is deposited on 
a glass support via thermal evaporation deposition.  The PVA layer, serving as the device 
passivation layer, is coated by the spin-coating technique.  A pulsed Nd:YAG laser (λ = 1064 nm) 
with pulse duration of 7 ns is employed to conduct the material transfer process.  The two test 
carriers are the organic thin-film transistor and the polymeric light-emitting diode.  Property 
characterizations of test carriers indicate that the embedded interconnects work smoothly.  The 
present approach demonstrates the feasibility of embedding electronic interconnects on an 
already-encapsulated organic electric device, which is applicable to repairing damaged internal 
circuits. Furthermore, all of the steps can be executed in an ambient environment and at room 
temperature, which signifies a promising method for plastic substrate processing and organic device 
fabrication. 
For laser-induced transfer, we have presented a laser thermal printing method (LTPM) for 
fabricating patterned metallic electrodes on plastic substrates. The results show that the process of 
LTPM did not give rise to any detectable degradation in the resulting film’s electrical conductivity 
and the features of the printed electrodes were qualified for bottom-contact OTFTs.  Because of 
the laser-induced thermal energy, LTPM was able to anneal the metal film simultaneously during 
the printing process, which further improved the electrodes’ surface morphology.  In addition, the 
LTPM-fabricated electrodes possessed excellent substrate adhesion.  When compared with those 
deposited through the thermal evaporation method, they showed superior resistance to large flexure.  
The result shows that this method can reach a line resolution of 40 μm and t this approach is also 
feasible when various plastic substrates are used; furthermore, the fabrication steps can be executed 
in ambient environment and at room temperature. 
 30
Appl. Phys. Lett. 76 (2000) 1386. 
44. B. Hopp, T. Smausz, Zs. Antal, N. Kresz, Zs. Bor, and D. Chrisey, J. Appl. Phys. 96 (2004) 3478. 
45. S. H. Ko, H. Pan, S. G. Ryu, N. Misra, C. P. Grigoropoulos and H. K. Park, Appl. Phys. Lett. 93 (2008) 
151110. 
46. T. Hirano, K. Matsuo, K. Kohinata, K. Hanawa, T. Matsumi, E. Matsuda, R. Matsuura, T. Ishibashi, A. 
Yoshida, and T. Sasaoka, SID 07 DIGEST 53.2 (2007). 
47. A. Pique, D.B. Chrisey, J.M. Fitz-Gerald, R.A. McGill, R.C.Y. Auyeung, H.D. Wu, S. Lakeou, V. 
Nguyen, R. Chung and M. Duignan, J. Mater. Res. 15 (2000) 1872. 
48. N. T. Kattamis, P. E. Purnick, R. Weiss, and C.B. Arnold, Appl. Phys. Lett. 91 (2007) 171120. 
49. D. P. Banks, K. Kaur, R. Gazia, R. Fardel, M. Nagel, T. Lippert and R. W. Eason, EPL, 83 (2008) 
38003. 
50. A. Doraiswamy, R.J. Narayan, T. Lippert, L. Urech, A. Wokaun, M. Nagel, B. Hopp, M. Dinescu, R. 
Modi, R.C.Y. Auyeung, and D.B. Chrisey, Appl. Surf. Sci. 252 (2006) 4743. 
51. R. Fardel, M. Nagel, F. Nuesch, T. Lippert, and A. Wokaun, Appl. Surf. Sci. 254 (2007) 1322. 
52. J. Xu, J. Liu, D. Cui, M. Gerhold, A. Y Wang, M. Nagel and T. K Lippert, Nanotechnology 18 (2007) 
025403. 
53. K. S. Kaur, R. Fardel, T. C. May-Smith, M. Nagel, D. P. Banks, C. Grivas, T. Lippert, and R. W. Eason, 
J. Appl. Phys. 105 (2009) 113119. 
54. R. Fardel, M. Nagel, F. Nüesch, T. Lippert, and A. Wokaun, Appl. Phys. Lett. 91 (2007) 061103. 
55. M. C. Suh, B. D.Chin, M. H. Kim, T. M. Kang, and S. T. Lee, Adv. Mater. 15 (2003) 1254. 
56. W. C. Wang, R. H. Vora, E. T. Kang, K. G. Neoh, C. K. Ong, and L. F. Chen, Adv. Mater. 16 (2004) 
51. 
57. L. Rapp, A. K. Diallo, A. P. Alloncle, C. Videlot-Ackermann, F. Fages, and P. Delaporte, Appl. Phys. 
Lett. 95 (2009) 171109. 
58. H. Kim, R. C. Y. Auyeung, S. H. Lee, A. L. Huston, and A. Pique, J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 43 (2010) 
085101. 
59. J. H. Lee, C. D. Yoo and Y. S. Kim, J. Micromech. Microeng. 17 (2007) 258. 
60. Edward D. Palik, Handbook of Optical Constants of Solids (1985). 
61. S.K. Park, Y.H. Kim, J.I. Han, D.G. Moon, W.K. Kim, and M.G. Kwak, Synth. Met. 139 (2003) 
377–384.  
Short Course 需額外繳交課程費用，因為經費考量，我報名了其中兩個課程：Solution 
Processible Organice Electronic Devices (Course I, 9:30–11 am) 及  Manufacturing 
Challenges for Printing Electronics (Course III, 2–3:30 pm). 主講者分別是 Professor 
Ronald Osterbacka (Abo Akademi University)及Dr. Eifion Jewell (Welsh Centre for 
Printing and Coating)。  
晚上6點為大會的Welcome Reception。 
y 第二天早上9-11點是Plenary Session，邀請四位講者分別就四個主題演講：Printed 
Electronics –Ready to go (Mr. Wolfgang Mildner, 大會的General Chairman), Global 
Collaboration Initiatives for the Successful Commercialization of the Printed Electronics (Dr. 
Young-Sup Joo, Ministry of Knowledge Economy, South Korea), Ignition Sequence Starts 
OLED Lighting Ready for Take Off? (Dr. Karsten Heuser, OSRAM Opto Semiconductors 
GmbH, Germany), and Ambient Electrnics Using Printed Organic Transistors (Prof. Takao 
Someya, University of Tokyo, Japan)，內容相當精采，吸引了爆滿的與會人士參與，將
可容納數百人的會場擠滿。 
11:30 am 開始到下午 6 pm，以三個主題(Business, Technical and Scientific)分成五個
Parallel sessions，針對不同的主題作論文發表報告，我主要選擇Technical及Scientific主
題之論文，有：Printable carbon-based transparent conductors (11:30 am), Organic electronic 
materials (12 am), e-LIFT: a laser printing technology for organic electronics (1 pm), Laser 
micromachining of organic LEDs (2:30 pm), Maskless ultrafast laser trimming of OTFT 
devices for low leakage fast switching (3 pm), Laser ablation of transparent conducting 
materials for organic electronics (3:20 pm) and Debris-free maskless selective laser 
patterning of thin film devices for organic electrnics applications (3:40 pm), Status quo and 
outlook for R2R printing and coating machines used for printed electronics (4:30 pm), 
Flexible transparent conductor based on Gapehene-PEDOT/PSS thin film prepared by 
one-step electrolytic exfoliation (5:20 pm) 以及  Polythiophene: Polyethylene blend 
semiconducting thin-films and transistors by wire-bar coating (5:40 pm)，選擇聽這些演講
主要是與新碳管、石墨烯電極、雷射製程與圖案化技術應用、以及新的導電高分子應
用等相關主題。 
中午用餐時間，參觀參展廠商展出 (Exhibition)，並取得許多有機材料供應廠商資料。 
6-8 pm為Interactive Session，在此共有近50篇的論文，我們也展示了兩篇論文（參考附
件2），同時參閱其他發表之論文，並與與會人士交換意見。   
y 第三天，早上9 – 10:30也是Plenary session, 有三個演講分別是: Flexible Electronics as a 
Key for a New Experience of Value in Automotive Design (Mr. Rober Isele, MMW Group, 
Germany), Printable and Flexible Electronics for the Future Applications (Dr. Bon Won Koo, 
Samsung Electronics , South Korea), and Printable Flexible Electronics and Capacitive 
Multi Touch (Mr. Thomas ANdrae, 3M New Ventures, Germany)。 與第二天相似，內容精
彩，也吸引了爆滿的聽眾。 
11:30 am 開始到下午 6 pm，也是以三個主題(Business, Technical and Scientific)分成五
個Parallel sessions，針對不同的主題作論文發表報告，我主要也是選擇Technical及
Scientific主題之論文聽講，有：Condutive Ink-jet printing of air-stable copper inks for 
flexible and plastic electronics (11:30 am), Low-temperature processing of inkject printed 
y 第五天，於下午3點左右離開會場，因為回程機票是隔天早上在Franktfurt，因此，因此
必須前往里昂機場。離開前在門口遇到今天主辦的National Institute of Applied Sciences 的
幾位老師，感謝他們今年的熱誠招待，再重申歡迎他們明年來台灣。 
 
二、與會心得 
1. LOPE-C由OE-A(Organic Electronics Association（有機電子協會），總部設在德國的
Frankfurt)，是一個以歐洲為中心，規模最大有機電子會議，除了學術、技術論文發表外，
很大的功能是廠商參展與有機電子的商業訊息交換，來自16個國家的91加廠商參展，27
個國家182篇論文發表，總共參加人士1150個分別來自29個國家，以參天的會議時間而言，
規模算是相當龐大。 
2. 比較令人驚訝的是韓國以極為積極態度投入軟電，參加人士相當多，三星在這方面展現了
強烈的企圖心，極力地宣示他們在有機電子上的作為，相當值得我們我們借鏡。 
3. 今年個人首次參加者個會議，會議期間除了吸收最新有機電子在材料、製程與封裝上的技
術外，因為在會場我們也拜訪了歐洲重要的設備、材料廠商，同時也因為金屬中心的林燁
敏經理與ITRI駐歐辦事處陳麗俐小姐的協助，我們有機會在會後拜訪廠商，算是相當有收
穫。其中3D MicroMac的CEO, Dipl-Ing. Tino Petsch, 他們將在10月訪台，我們預將一齊舉
辦關於Printing技術的Workshop。 
4. 會議結束後，7/1我們前往海德堡拜訪Innovation Lab (iL)，由他們Managing Director Dr. 
Martin Raditsch，介紹他們在海德堡建立的Innovation Lab，並帶我們參觀所建立的共同實
驗室。 
5. 在會議中我們認識ITRI IEK 的王世杰博士與葉錦清博士，與ITRI南分院正在柏林工大短
期研究的蔡武融博士。業界方面，認識台灣永光的尹主任與均昇科技的陳董事長。因為，
王博士正在作軟電產業的相關調查報告，在回國後，他也於7/21日到中正大學與我鄭老師
作意見交換，關於我們正在研發中的微接觸印刷技術，希望我們多年來持續開發的印刷技
術，在未來可以有用武之地。  
6. 8th ICMMES這個會議主要是學術會議，除了相關資序的交換外，今年比較大的收穫是，
宣示了明年我們將在台灣舉辦承接第九屆的會議。 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
本次會議中所攜回之資料如下: 會議之手冊、會議論文全文光碟、一些與會議人士名片、
參展廠商資料與資訊。  
 
 
附件 
1. “Optimal Preparation Condition of Poly(3-hexylthiophene) Solution for Organic Thin-Film Transistors,” 
J.-W. John Cheng, Ming-Te Chen, Jeng-Rong Ho, and Chia-Chen Hsu. 
2. “A Study on Inking PDMS Stamp of Micro-Contact Printing,” J.-W. John Cheng, Jeng-Rong Ho, Jia-De 
Jhu, Chang-Pen Chen, and Yeh-Min Lin. 
3. “Lattice Boltzmann model for propagation of one-dimensional electromagnetic waves in dispersive 
media,” Poting Chen and Jeng-Rong Ho. 
附件1 – LOPE-C Paper 1 
 
 
附件2 – LOPE-C Paper 2 
 
 
附件3 ICMMES  
 
 
 
 
附件4 – LOPE-C Program overview 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/03/03
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 雷射材料轉印應用於有機光電元件之製程研究
計畫主持人: 何正榮
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-194-058-MY3 學門領域: 熱傳學、流體力學
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
碩班參與學生國內研討會論文獲選為第二名 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
