 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告      □期中進度報告 
 
 
應變對氮化物半導體量子點結構之光學性質的影響 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-002 -034  
執行期間：99 年 8 月 1 日 至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立台灣大學應用力學研究所 
 
計畫主持人：郭茂坤  教授 
計畫參與人員：博士班研究生-兼任助理人員：洪國彬、林延儒 
     碩士班研究生-兼任助理人員：蔡緯毅、張翰允 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  100  年    月    日 
 
 
 
 3
   nmnmprkrmpmkpqrlrkqipikl PPee   ,,      (4) 
ipl 為兩座標系之間的轉換張量。 
 
 
圖 1 (a) 氮化銦鎵截頭式六角金字塔量子點結構
圖；z 為磊晶方向， z  為基版之晶格成長方向：(b) 
氮化銦鎵量子點俯視圖。 
層狀磊晶製程中，需由數種半導體材料磊晶
接合。本研究考慮氮化鎵(GaN)基板之晶體成長
方向 z 與氮化銦鎵磊晶方向z並不一致。因此，
晶格不匹配所產生的初始應變[4]，需修正為： 
 
InGaN
InGaNGaN0
a
aa
yy
                         (5) 
 
St
Stca
xx
 GaNGaN0                                 (6) 
     22InGaNGaN22GaNInGaN sincos cacaSt   (7) 
其中， GaNa 與 InGaNa 分別代表基板與磊晶層材料
垂直於其晶格成長方向之晶格常數，沿晶格成長
方向之晶格常數則分別為 GaNc 與 InGaNc 。事實
上，在磊晶過程，此些起始應變將引致進一步的
應變回復，以確保基板與磊晶層之應力平衡。本
研究將以線彈壓電力學理論，配合有限元素法套
裝軟體COMSOL，分析其所引致之應力場及壓
電場。 
 關於量子點光電性質理論分析方面，本研究
以 8x8 k·p Hamiltonian 理論，分析量子點電子與
電洞之特徵能量 
, EH       
 
 



 kGΓ
ΓkG
H              (8) 
其中[5] 
 











ITSkiP
THRkiP
SRGkiP
kiPkiPkiPF
zyzxz
yzyxy
xzxyx
zyx
1
2
2
122
kG              (9) 











0330
3000
3000
0000
soso
so
so
i
i
Γ           (10) 
由於基材與磊晶材料的晶格成長方向不同，研究
中採用原 8×8 矩陣所使用之基底，利用
ipip kk  及 klslrkrs   等，代入原方程式中，
以建立在任意角度下之 8×8 pk  理論。 
 
圖 2 壓電位能分布圖。為基版晶格成長方向成長
與磊晶方向之夾角 ,60,40,20,0( 0000 )800 。 
 
四、數值結果與討論： 
本研究主要探討量子點內之壓電位能差，及
其基態電子電洞重疊量的關係，以及其隨著基版
晶格成長角度變化之情況。圖 2 為壓電位能差在
量子點內的分布圖；圖 3 為底部寬度 b=15nm，
高度分別為 h=2, 3, 4 nm；圖 4 為高度 h=2nm，
 5
差異，然其最大之重疊量都在70%以上。考慮較
大尺寸之量子點時，此重疊量更可以達到90%以
上。 
圖5為底部寬度b=15nm，高度h=2nm，銦濃
度分別為0.26, 0.31, 0.36之結果。由圖5 (a)可發
現，濃度不同時，壓電位能差仍與圖3, 4擁有相
同的趨勢，在68°~71°之間達到最小值之後又慢
慢地上昇。而基態電子電洞重疊量發生最大值的
角度範圍則約在71°~73°區間內，與發生最小壓
電位能差之角度僅有些許之差異，且其最大之重
疊量幾乎都在75%以上。 
 
五、結論： 
本研究探討氮化銦鎵量子點，磊晶成長於不
同晶格成長方向的氮化鎵基版上，以線彈壓電力
學理論為基礎，分析量子點應變場與壓電場，並
由量子點內壓電位能差，預估能提升發光效率之
最佳晶格成長角度，最後藉由8x8 k.p 計算基態
電子電洞重疊量，以確定真正最有效提高發光效
率之晶格成長方向。結果顯示，產生基態電子電
洞重疊量最大值之基版的晶格成長方向，大約與
產生電位能差最小值之基版的晶格成長方向相吻
合。 
量子點內壓電位能差之最小值，大約均發生
於68°~71°之晶格成長方向的氮化鎵基版（改變
量子點高度，量子點寬度尺寸，與氮化銦鎵濃度
大小時，其所對應之基版晶格成長方向分別為
69°~71°，68°~70°，與70°）；而基態電子電洞重
疊量之最大值，則大約均發生於70°~74°（改變
量子點高度，量子點寬度尺寸，與氮化銦鎵濃度
大小時，其所對應之基版晶格成長方向分別為
72°~74°，70°~74°，與71°）。 
 
六、文獻參考： 
[1] S. Nakamura and G. Fasol, The Blue Laser 
Diode, Springer, Berlin；1997. 
[2] S. Y. Kwon, H. J. Kim, H. Na, Y. W. Kim, H. 
C. Seo, H. Jin Kim, Y. Shin, and E. Yoon, “In-
rich InGaN/GaN quantum wells grown by 
metal-organic chemical vapor deposition,” J. 
Appl. Phys., Vol. 99, pp 044906 , 2006. 
[3] A. E. Romanov, T. J. Baker, S. Nakamura, and 
J. S. Speck, "Strain-induced polarization in 
wurtzite III-nitride semipolar layers", J. Appl. 
Phys. 100 023522, 2006. 
[4] U. M. E. Christmas, A. D. Andreev, and D. A. 
Faux, “Calculation of electric field and optical 
transitions in InGaN/GaN quantum wells,” J. 
Appl. Phys., Vol. 98, pp 073522-1-12, 2005. 
[5] M. Winkelnkemper, A. Schliwa, and D. 
Bimberg, “Interrelation of structural and 
electronic properties in InxGa1−xN/GaN 
quantum dots using an eight-band k·p model,” 
Phys. Rev. B, Vol. 74, pp 155322-1-12, 2006. 
 
 
圖 5 截頭式六角金字塔量子點(a)壓電位能差：(b) 
基態電子電動重疊量；對基版晶格成長角度關係
曲線圖(b=15, h=2nm)。 
 
 
 7
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                   日期： 100 年 4 月 20  
日 
一、參加會議經過 
SPIE 為光學領域十分有名且龐大的國際學術組織，全名為 International Society 
for Optical Engineering。Photonics West 為 SPIE 每年召開的兩大國際會議之一，涵
蓋的主題非常廣泛。本次會議於 1/22-1/27 在舊金山召開。 
本屆的 SPIE Photonics West 2011，包含五個主要分支 BiOS（生醫光學）、 
LASE（雷射）、MOEMS-MEMS（奈米製程及系統）、 OPTO（光電元件）及及
GREEN PHOTONICS（綠色光子）。每個主題又分為與各學科相關的十多個子會
場。國內也有不少學者參加此會議。 
OPTO 主題下，又分 optoelectronic materials and devices, photonic integration, 
nanotechnologies in photonics, advanced quantum and optoelectronic applications, 
semiconductor lasers and LEDs, displays and holography, optical communications: 
devices to systems 七個子主題。OPTO 主題的幾個大會演講，尤其是德國 Max 
Planck 研究所的 Hell 所長所報告的 Nanoscopy with focused light，以及美國柏克
萊大學 Yablonovitch 教授所報告的 Metal Optics: the new frontier，最讓我受益良
多。 
由於今年的會期，正好在學期末與農曆春節之間，因此只好來去匆匆，趕
在 24 日前抵達會場，並於研討會結束後，立即回台。 
我們的口頭報告是屬於 OPTO 分支，於 1/26（星期三）中午的量子點議程
中。與我們安排在同一議程的其他三個報告分別來自一個澳洲的研究團隊，以
及兩個來自美國本地的研究團隊。 
感謝國科會在經費上的補助，得以順利參與此研討會，有機會拓展視野，在此
誌謝！ 
 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-002 -034 
計畫名稱 應變對氮化物半導體量子點結構之光學性質的影響 
出國人員
姓名 郭茂坤 
服務機構
及職稱 
台大應力所  教授 
會議時間 100 年 1 月 24 至 100 年 1 月 30 日 會議地點 
美國加州 舊金山 
會議名稱 (中文) SPIE Photonics West (英文) SPIE Photonics West 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) Fully coupled and semi-coupled piezoelectric models on the optical 
properties of InGaN quantum dots 
(英文) Fully coupled and semi-coupled piezoelectric models on the optical 
properties of InGaN quantum dots 
附件四 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                   日期： 100 年 4 月 20  日 
一、參加會議經過 
SPIE 為光學領域十分有名且龐大的國際學術組織，全名為 International Society 
for Optical Engineering。Photonics West 為 SPIE 每年召開的兩大國際會議之一，涵蓋
的主題非常廣泛。本次會議於 1/22-1/27 在舊金山召開。 
本屆的 SPIE Photonics West 2011，包含五個主要分支 BiOS（生醫光學）、 LASE
（雷射）、MOEMS-MEMS（奈米製程及系統）、 OPTO（光電元件）及及 GREEN 
PHOTONICS（綠色光子）。每個主題又分為與各學科相關的十多個子會場。國內也
有不少學者參加此會議。 
OPTO 主題下，又分 optoelectronic materials and devices, photonic integration, 
nanotechnologies in photonics, advanced quantum and optoelectronic applications, 
semiconductor lasers and LEDs, displays and holography, optical communications: 
devices to systems 七個子主題。OPTO 主題的幾個大會演講，尤其是德國 Max 
Planck 研究所的 Hell 所長所報告的 Nanoscopy with focused light，以及美國柏克
萊大學 Yablonovitch 教授所報告的 Metal Optics: the new frontier，最讓我受益良
多。 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-002 -034 
計畫名稱 應變對氮化物半導體量子點結構之光學性質的影響 
出國人員
姓名 郭茂坤 
服務機構
及職稱 台大應力所  教授 
會議時間 100 年 1 月 24 至 100 年 1 月 30 日 會議地點 美國加州 舊金山 
會議名稱 
(中文) SPIE Photonics West 
(英文) SPIE Photonics West 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) Fully coupled and semi-coupled piezoelectric models on the optical 
properties of InGaN quantum dots 
(英文) Fully coupled and semi-coupled piezoelectric models on the optical 
properties of InGaN quantum dots 
附件四 
1mkkuo
 寄件者: mattn@spie.org
寄件日期: 2010年9月21日星期二 上午 8:25
收件者: mkkuo@ntu.edu.tw
主旨: SPIE Paper Number 7947-24 Acceptance and Manuscript Information
郵件標幟: 待處理
標幟狀態: 已標幟
Dear Prof. Mao-Kuen Kuo,  
 
Congratulations! The chairs for the upcoming "Quantum Dots and Nanostructures: Synthesis, Characterization, and 
Modeling VIII" conference have accepted your paper, "Fully coupled piezoelectric models on the optical properties of 
InGaN quantum dots," as a Oral presentation to be presented 26 Jan 2011. This conference is part of OPTO which will be 
held 22-27 January 2011 in San Francisco, California United States.  
 
PLEASE SAVE OR PRINT THIS MESSAGE FOR FUTURE REFERENCE AS IT PROVIDES IMPORTANT DETAILS FOR 
THIS EVENT.  
 
PAPER NUMBER: 7947-24  
 Please include your SPIE Paper Number in the subject line of all Email correspondence. 
 
PAPER TITLE: Fully coupled piezoelectric models on the optical properties of InGaN quantum dots  
 If you have changes to your title, abstract, or list of authors for the conference program, please send changes 
directly to me, mattn@spie.org by 15 November 2010. Changes submitted with your manuscript will not 
automatically be reflected in the conference program. 
 
PREPARE YOUR PRESENTATION AND PROCEEDINGS MANUSCRIPT: http://spie.org/x27472.xml  
 
PRESENTATION DATE: 26 Jan 2011  
 If you are presenting more than one paper, please check the program online to see if the sessions overlap. If 
your presentations are at risk of overlapping, please notify me immediately so that we can adjust the program 
(Email: mattn@spie.org) 
 If you are unable to attend and make your presentation, please look for an alternate speaker before canceling. 
Cancellation dates and reasons are noted in your permanent record. Last-minute cancellations and no-show 
authors may risk not being accepted to present at future SPIE events. If you or a colleague are unable to make 
your presentation, please notify me no later than 15 November 2010 so we can remove the presentation from 
the final program. 
 Your presentation must be made as scheduled in order to have your manuscript published in the conference 
Proceedings. 
 
PRESENTATION TYPE: Oral  
 The decision of oral or poster presentation is made by the conference chair(s). 
 All authors (oral, poster, keynote, and invited) are expected to submit a manuscript containing at least 6 pages. 
Your work is extremely important and valuable to your fellow researchers, so we look forward to including it in 
this year's publications. 
 See http://spie.org/x27472.xml for presentation guidelines 
 Poster presenters will also be sent a separate message asking them to reserve a poster board by 8 November 
2010. 
 
MANUSCRIPT DUE DATE: 17 Dec 2010  
 The manuscript submission site at http://myspie.org will open 5 weeks prior to the deadline. 
 The Proceedings volume for this conference will be published shortly after the meeting. Manuscripts will be 
available on the SPIE Digital Library within 2-4 weeks of the meeting, published in the printed Proceedings 
volume within 4-6 weeks of the meeting, and published on the CD-ROM 6-8 weeks after the meeting. 
Fully coupled and semi-coupled piezoelectric models on the 
optical properties of InGaN quantum dots 
K B Hong and M K Kuo1 
Institute of Applied Mechanics, National Taiwan University, No. 1 Sec. 4 Roosevelt Road, Taipei, 10672, 
Taiwan, Republic of China 
E-mail: mkkuo@ntu.edu.tw 
 
 Abstract  
This paper investigates the differences between the fully coupled and the semi-coupled piezoelectric 
models for determining strain fields, piezoelectric potentials, and optical properties of wurtzite InGaN 
quantum dots (QDs) in three different shapes. Through the calculations, we show that the relative 
difference of the x-component strain inside the dot remains almost unchanged regardless of the shapes 
and the sizes of the dot. On the other hand, a large relative difference for the z-component strain is 
obtained with the use of the semi-coupled model. We also find that the semi-coupled model clearly 
overestimates the piezoelectric potential, and the transition energy difference increased with increases 
in the dot size and indium composition. Consequently, the semi-coupled model causes a great amount 
of distortion in predicting the optical properties of InGaN QDs. It is thus evident that the fully coupled 
model for calculating the electromechanical fields and optical properties of InGaN QDs may be more 
appropriate according to our numerical examples. 
 
In this paper, we consider three different shapes (truncated cone, lens and truncated pyramid) of 
IncGa1-cN QD nanostructures as shown in figure 1. The QDs with the truncated cone-shape and truncated 
pyramid-shape are named TC and TP, respectively. The height and the base width of the QDs are denoted as 
h and b, respectively. The presence of a wetting layer of 0.8 nm is included in the calculations. The indium 
composition of the wetting layer is assumed to be the same as that of the QD with a uniform distribution. To 
investigate the differences between the semi-coupled and fully coupled piezoelectric models, the size 
variations of the InGaN QDs and the variations of the indium composition inside the dots are both 
considered. The first part of the numerical examples consider QDs of several different sizes, which have 
various bases and heights (b = 15 to 30 nm and h = 2 to 4 nm), while the indium composition of the QDs is 
restricted to 0.3. In the second part of examples, QDs are made of IncGa1-cN, where the indium composition, 
c, varies from 0.2 to 0.4, but the size of the QDs is restricted to b = 20 nm and h = 2.5 nm. All of the 
numerical calculations are performed by using the finite element package COMSOL, as similar approaches 
have been successfully applied to InAs/GaAs and SiGe/Si QDs in prior studies [20, 21]. 
 
 
3. Methods 
3.1. Electromechanical fields 
Semiconductor heterostructures, such as QDs, often consist of several constituent materials with 
different lattice constants. This lattice mismatch creates strain fields in the QDs, which further affect the 
optical properties of the QDs. The in-plane and out-of-plane lattice mismatch parameters are determined 
by InGaNInGaNGaN )( aaa   and InGaNInGaNGaN )( ccc  , respectively, where GaNa  ( InGaNa ) and GaNc  
( InGaNc ) are the lattice constants of the GaN (InGaN) perpendicular and parallel to the direction of growth, 
respectively. Since III-V nitride materials have a large direct piezoelectric effect, the reverse piezoelectric 
effect should also be included in the calculation of piezoelectric potential distribution. In our work, the fully 
coupled and semi-coupled piezoelectric models are termed FC and SC, respectively. The FC 
electromechanical equations can be written as [16] 
 zyxkji
PeFD
FeC
zspkliklkiki
kijkklijklij
,,,,
,







 (1) 
where ij , kl  , and ijklC  are the stress field, strain field, and elastic stiffness tensor, respectively, iD  
and kF  are the electric displacement field and electric field; ik is the dielectric constant tensor that 
reduces to a diagonal matrix; ijke  indicates a piezoelectric stress tensor that has only three non-zero 
components ( 15e , 31e , and 33e ); and zspP , denotes the spontaneous polarization which has only a 
z-component. According to the theory of piezoelectricity, the stress field and the electric displacement field 
must lead to an equilibrium state between force and charge. Thus, we have 
 




0
0
,
,
ii
jij
D

 (2) 
4. Numerical results 
In this section, we present the calculated results of strain fields, piezoelectric potentials, and optical 
properties for various sizes, shapes, and compositions of the InGaN QDs. Most of the elastic and the electric 
material parameters used in this study are taken from [22]. Conduction band deformation potentials are taken 
from [25]. The anisotropic dielectric constants of GaN are taken from [26]. For computing the 
electromechanical fields, the simulation size of the GaN matrix is ten times larger than the QD height in the 
vertical direction and three times larger than the QD base in the lateral direction. It is large enough not to 
affect the investigated electromechanical fields and energy levels. 
The strain field and piezoelectric potential for various sizes and compositions of the QDs with different 
shapes are computed using the FC, SC, and SC2 piezoelectric models. The resulting differences in 
electromechanical fields between these three models are addressed in the following. 
Figure 2 shows the normal strain distributions, the x- and z-components, of the lens-shaped In0.3Ga0.7N 
QD with b = 30 nm, h = 4 nm, respectively, along the growth direction, for the FC and SC models. The 
results show that these two piezoelectric models predict similar x-component strain, xx , but there is a 
significant difference in the z-component strain, zz . A larger value of the z-component strain inside the dot 
is obtained by the SC model. 
The relative difference of the x- and z-components of strain between the FC and SC models for three 
differently shaped In0.3Ga0.7N QDs are shown in figure 3. The relative difference of the xx  inside the dot 
for all three shapes remains almost unchanged, irrespective of whether the dot is large or small. For the case 
of b = 30 nm, h = 4 nm, the relative difference in the z-component of strain inside the lens-shaped QD is 
11–15%. On the other hand, the zz  calculated using the SC model causes a large amount of distortion that 
will obviously affect the accuracy of the strain-induced piezoelectric potential. A noteworthy phenomenon 
arises when the reverse piezoelectric effect of InGaN crystalline is considered in the numerical analysis. 
Figure 4 shows the composition dependence of the x- and z-component strain difference for the TC-shaped 
IncGa1-cN QD with b = 20 nm and h = 2.5 nm. The strain difference in the QD region increases as the 
composition of indium increases, regardless of the x- or z-component. Similar phenomena can also be 
observed for other shapes. 
A piezoelectric potential drop is defined as the piezoelectric potential difference between the points A 
and B, BAd VVV  , where A and B denote the top and bottom surfaces of the QD, respectively, and the 
line AB coincides with the z-axis (see figure 1). Figure 5 shows the size dependence of dV  for lens-shaped 
In0.3Ga0.7N QD. The figure shows that dV  of SC and SC2 are larger than that of FC. Moreover, the 
discrepancy between dV  of SC (SC2) and dV  of FC is at least 30 (70) mV; then, the discrepancy 
increases with the size of the QD. The results also show that dV  is almost independent of the shape of the 
QD. In fact, the difference of dV  is less then or equal to 2 mV between different shapes of QD with any 
given size in our numerical samples, irrespective of the values obtained by the SC or the SC2 model. Figure 
6 shows the difference of piezoelectric potential drop between the FC and SC (SC2) models as a function of 
the indium composition. The results reveal that the difference in dV  between the FC and SC (SC2) models 
increases from 24 (65) mV to 48 (102) mV for a lens-shaped QD. 
relative difference in the z-component strain inside the lens-shaped QD is about 11–15%. In addition, the 
discrepancy in dV  between SC (SC2) and FC is at least 30 (70) mV. The discrepancy exhibits an increasing 
tendency with the size of the QD, and dV  is almost independent of the shape of the QD. However, the 
potential drop difference of the lens-shaped QD may be larger than 48 and 102 mV in the cases of the SC and 
SC2 models, respectively, when the indium composition is equal to 0.4. Obviously, the SC and SC2 models 
clearly overestimate the piezoelectric potential. On the other hand, the underestimation in electron and hole 
energy varies within a range of 8–24 and 14–28 meV, respectively, in the case of the SC model. Moreover, 
the binding energies obtained from the SC model are almost the same as those obtained from the FC model, 
and the binding energy of the lens-shaped QD is always higher than that of the other QDs. Additionally, the 
transition energy difference increases as the dot size and composition increase. It is quite apparent that the 
SC or SC2 model causes a great amount of distortion in the prediction of the optical property of InGaN QDs. 
We conclude that the FC model is more appropriate for calculating the electromechanical fields and optical 
properties of InGaN QDs. 
 
 
Acknowledgements 
This work is carried out in the course of research sponsored by the National Science Council of Taiwan 
under Grant NSC 95-2221-E-002-041-MY3 and NSC 98-2221-E-002-002. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of figure captions: 
Figure 1. The shape drawings of the InGaN quantum dots used in the calculations. 
 
Figure 2. Normal strain distributions of the (a) x-axis and (b) z-axis components are plotted along the z-axis 
through the center of the lens-shaped In0.3Ga0.7N QD with b = 30 nm and h = 4 nm, for the FC and SC 
models. 
 
Figure 3. Calculation error of (a) x- and (b) z-component strain between the FC and SC models for three 
differently shaped In0.3Ga0.7N QDs with b = 30 nm and h = 4 nm. 
 
Figure 4. Difference of (a) x- and (b) z-component strain between the FC and SC models as a function of the 
composition of the TC-shaped IncGa1-cN QD with b = 20 nm and h = 2.5 nm. 
 
Figure 5. Size dependence of piezoelectric potential drop of lens-shaped In0.3Ga0.7N QD for (a) h = 2 nm, (b) 
h = 4 nm, (c) b = 15 nm, and (d) b = 25 nm. 
 
Figure 6. Difference of piezoelectric potential drop between the FC and SC (SC2) models as a function of 
the indium composition of (a) Lens- and (b) TP-shaped IncGa1-cN QD with b = 20 nm and h = 2.5 nm. 
 
Figure 7. Electron and hole ground-state energies as a function of the height of the lens-shaped In0.3Ga0.7N 
QD for b = 15 nm (a), (b) and b = 25 nm (c), (d). 
 
Figure 8. Size dependence of exciton binding energy for three differently shaped In0.3Ga0.7N QDs for (a) h = 
2 nm, (b) h = 4 nm, (c) b = 15 nm, and (d) b = 25 nm, respectively, for the FC model. 
 
Figure 9. Size dependence of transition energy difference between the FC and SC cases for three differently 
shaped In0.3Ga0.7N QDs for (a) h = 2 nm, (b) h = 4 nm, (c) b = 15 nm, and (d) b = 25 nm, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. 
 
 
 
Figure 4. 
 
  
 
Figure 7. 
 
 
 
Figure 8. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/02/23
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應變對氮化物半導體量子點結構之光學性質的影響
計畫主持人: 郭茂坤
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-002-034- 學門領域: 應力應變與成型
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
