Abstract 
 
In the field applications of a typical induction motor, several significant factors 
such as the vibration amplitude, bearing wear and system resonance always play the 
key role in the quality and performance of the motor.  The purpose of this paper is to 
study the dynamic behavior and balancing effect of the induction motor with a 
self-developed solution modules in rotordynamics so as to have good command in the 
motor design guideline. 
The rotating speed and the angular acceleration curves of the motor are estimated 
with the electromagnetic analysis procedure and the results are incorporated into the 
finite element model of the motor rotor.  Subsequently, the structure of motor rotor 
which is built with a dual-rotor model representing the rotating shaft and Silicon steel 
core.  And the frequency response function (FRF) calculated from the FEA model 
shows a good agreement with that of the experimental modal testing results. 
The electromagnetic analysis shows that the Silicon steel core with material 
50H1300 has the best performance in its acceleration curve among the three types 
material studied.  Furthermore, the dynamic analysis of the induction motor indicates 
that the clamping and bearing stiffness dominate the vibration amplitude especially 
under the situation of bearing wear.  Finally, the effective balancing zone is 
identified in the study of the balancing effects of the adding balance masses.  The 
corresponding optimum balancing effect is checked through the relationship between 
the critical adding mass ratio and the eccentricity ratio. 
 
Keywords: Finite element analysis, electromagnetic analysis, balancing effect. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
frequency of 100 Hz to generate the working speed up to 3,000 rpm.  The two ball 
bearings located near the front and rear ends of the shaft are used in supporting the 
rotor.  
The centrifugal force as resulted from the mass eccentricity of the Silicon steel core 
can always generate large vibration amplitude no matter at the bearings or the whole 
rotor. The suppression of the unbalance vibration on rotating machines becomes a 
regular practice and a challenge for the designer.  In order to reduce the vibration 
amplitude, either removing or adding some of the balancing masses are all workable.  
However, for the motor, an easier and effective way is to mount pieces of the 
balancing ring masses on the cylindrical protrusion of the balance planes. Meanwhile, 
the designers also anticipate being able to identify the dynamic behavior of rotating 
machines at the design stage particularly with the mathematical techniques.  The 
relating studies in rotor dynamics are then developed rapidly so as to meet this 
expectation. 
In the past, a rigid rotor or a Jeffcott-rotor model [1] was adopted to investigate the 
basic vibration behaviors of a simple rotor.  The critical speeds, synchronous 
response or stability of the system can be solved for the exact solutions.  
Unfortunately, the structure of industrial rotor-bearing systems such as the induction 
motor above mentioned is always complex and finding the exact solution is almost 
hardly feasible.  Therefore, the finite element analysis (FEA) becomes an effect 
numerical tool in solving the rotordynamic problems.  Many of the researchers have 
used the FEA tool to explore the diverse problems in this field.  A typical rotor 
element incorporated with the rotary inertia, and gyroscopic moment has been 
developed as in [2].  The element was grouped up to represent a shaft in a 
rotor-bearing system for estimating the critical speeds and vibration amplitudes.  For 
a heavy rotor (for example, mounted with Silicon steel core), the shear effect on the 
shaft should be included in the element thus the rotor is treated as a Timoshenko rotor 
[3], [4].  This effect is so critical that it can not be ignored for avoiding the over 
estimation of the whirling speeds of the system. 
The transient behavior of the system is also one of the motor issues that attracts the 
plunging of lots of research efforts.  This subject is important and of interesting due 
to during the speed up of the rotor before reaching the working speed, it is very likely 
to pass the critical speeds especially for the case when the working speed is quite high.  
At this occasion, the vibration amplitudes at the critical speeds are intensified abruptly.  
In literatures [5], [6], a linear rotating speed and a constant angular acceleration were 
assumed in their model.  Their research focused on the rotor behavior during its 
acceleration process.  Some major results show that the vibration amplitudes of the 
rotor under critical speeds are restrained obviously when raising the angular 
The developing processes of the computer program which can be categorized into 
five modules are shown in Fig. 2.  In Module I, the matrix of rotor elements for the 
induction motor are built by substituting the mechanical material and rotor geometric 
properties.  In Module II, it is defined for all the parameters of boundary conditions 
such as the bearing properties as referred from the technical manual. Besides, the 
performance characteristics of the induction motor such as the rotating speed curves 
as obtained from the electromagnetic analysis is also included in this section.  In 
Module III, the equation of motion is established by adding the matrix of rotor 
elements at the diagonal direction of the system matrix, and the boundary conditions 
and performance curves of the induction motor are introduced from Module II 
simultaneously.  In the end, the codes is capable of solving both the steady-state and 
transient analyses results of an induction motor from the solutions of the dynamic 
equation,  In Module IV-a, the eigen-system solver is able to explore the dynamic 
properties of the system when at its steady-state.  The so called steady-state 
condition normally refers to the situation when the system runs at a constant speed.  
The system resonance frequencies are solved in this program module.  The 
frequency response function (FRF) curves, mode shapes and Campbell diagrams are 
all plotted in Module V.  In Module IV-b, the transient solver can also examine the 
stability of the system.  The transient vibration amplitudes at each node of the 
system model are solved through a direct integration methodology and the 
time-varying orbits of nodes are plotted in Module V accordingly. 
For being able to study the characteristics of the induction motor rotor precisely, it 
seems a necessity to use the dual-rotor model instead of the conventional single-rotor 
model due to the dramatic structural differences between the rotating shaft and Silicon 
steel core.  Subsequently, the model is even verified further with the outcomes from 
the experimental modal testing.  For the performance curves of the induction motor, 
such as the rotating speed and the angular acceleration curves, are estimated directly 
from the transient electromagnetic analysis of the MagNet software.  The non-linear 
material properties including the magnetic flux density, permeability and core loss 
curves are also set in the input of software.  As a result, the variations of the 
vibration amplitudes at certain major locations of the induction motor rotor and its 
sensitivity to the boundary stiffness are also examined thoroughly.  Even through 
this mathematical modeling, it can still be observed that the vibration amplitudes 
indeed are suppressed after adding the balancing masses on the balance planes.  In 
addition, the feasible ranges of the adding balance mass with desired balance effects 
on the system are then defined. 
 
 
of Silicon and with lower core loss.  It is considered as the best choice among those 
three materials since it can avoid the excessive temperature rise for the driving parts 
during the motor operation.  However, if considering the cost, material 50H800 or 
50H1300 are often used as the compromised alternatives.  Therefore, from the 
viewpoint of application frequencies, those three types of materials of Silicon steel 
core are all worthy to perform the electromagnetic analysis. 
 
B. Mechanical Performance Curve 
  The performance curves of the motor are identified following the procedure of 
electromagnetic analysis as indicated in Fig. 4.  Firstly, the geometrical patterns of 
the sections of the rotor and stator (driving mechanism) are imported from the 
drawing of CAD graphics tools.(*.dxf).  Thereafter, the winding coils of the stator 
are set as shown in Fig. 3 and the non-linear magnetic properties of Silicon steel core 
as mentioned earlier from the related documents are then fit into the analysis.  For 
both optimizing the analysis efficiency and obtaining accurate results, a special 
technique, “h-adaption”, as provided in the MagNet software is employed.  Fig. 5 
shows the mesh of triangular elements at the section of the driving mechanism of the 
motor.  Normally, the clearance between the rotor and stator (air gap) is required to 
be smaller than 0.35 mm so as to ensure sufficient transmission-torque be generated.  
Therefore, MagNet will take smaller element size automatically at this area after 
using the h-adaption technique, but with considerably rough elements for other parts 
of the model so as to save the computation time.  Some satisfactory results are then 
obtained with this method after comparing several other mesh functions as offered 
by the software.  It is believed that the suitable mesh in the air gap region is the 
most crucial point for the success of the analysis. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Flowchart of the electromagnetic analysis processes. 
  
Fig. 6. Rotating speed curves with different material types of Silicon steel core. 
 
Obviously, the linear assumption of rotating speed as addressed in previous 
literatures will be no more suitable and an exponential curve instead of the linear one 
has to be employed.  Another noteworthy phenomenon is that the rising rates of the 
rotating speed are also varied with different applications of Silicon steel core 
materials.  Actually, the results of rotating speed are derived indirectly from the 
angular acceleration curves of the materials. 
Fig. 7 shows the angular acceleration versus the accelerating time for various types 
of the Silicon steel core materials.  These curves can be obtained from the 
derivatives of the exponential curve of the rotating speed.  As can be seen in the 
figure, the angular acceleration decreases continuously with time.  At the early stage, 
the magnitude of the angular acceleration from large to small following the order of 
material 50H1300, 50H800 and then 50H600.  However, this order is reversed once 
the acceleration time approaches 0.2 to 0.25 seconds approximately.  For example, 
the angular acceleration of material 50H1300 is 18.75% larger than that of the 
material 50H600 at 0.02 second, but is about 64.11% less than that of 50H600 at 0.35 
second.  Subsequently, the angular acceleration curve of material 50H1300 take the 
lead to drop to zero at time of 0.5 second, then followed by materials 50H800 and 
50H1300 at 0.65 and 0.75 seconds respectively.  It is noted that the instant when the 
angular acceleration is zero reveals that a constant working speed has arrived.  From 
the point of view in acceleration performance, material 50H1300 takes the shortest 
time to get to the steady speed among the three types of materials.  This kind of 
material is especially good for use on those motors in high speed occasions.  As 
summarized from all of the forgoing descriptions, the time curves of the rotating 
speed and the angular acceleration for a motor are the key characteristics that 
deserved to be referenced most in the motor design.  Those characteristics for all the 
nodes.  The vector, { }( , )RQ ω ω , represents the eccentricity forces in the tangential 
and normal directions [6].  These forces are usually generated due to the existence of 
the mass eccentricity at the rotating shaft or the Silicon steel core. 
 
 
Fig. 8. Dual-rotor finite element model for the induction motor system. 
 
   Fig. 8 shows the finite element model of the dual- rotor system for the induction 
motor.  As shown at the upper in the figure, it is the element model for the Silicon 
steel core with a total of five elements.  What shown at the lower is the element 
model of the shaft with a total of twenty-one elements.  As can be seen in Fig. 9 for 
the geometry of the shaft itself, there’re stepped construction on both ends of the shaft 
at where the bearings are mounted.  It is then have denser mesh at the bearing 
mounting locations near both ends.  The fitting condition between the Silicon steel 
core and the shaft, and the bearing connections between the shaft and housing are all 
represented with certain stiffness which are shown symbolically as springs in the 
figure.  The stiffness between the rotating shaft and Silicon steel core is then set with 
a clamping stiffness Kc, (up to 109 N/m for normal situation) and the stiffness are 
represented as Kf and Kr  respectively for the front and rear bearing connections.  
The balancing masses, m1 and m2, were set on balance plane 1 and plane 2 to reduce 
the vibration amplitudes of the rotor.  All of these boundary parameters can be made 
into a matrix form and is shown as below: 
  [ ]{ } { }c cK q Q=                         (3) 
{ } { }f fK q Q⎡ ⎤ =⎣ ⎦                        (4) 
[ ]{ } { }r rK q Q=                         (5) 
{ } { }( , )p pM q Q ω ω⎡ ⎤ =⎣ ⎦                      (6) 
where the balancing mass in matrix pM⎡ ⎤⎣ ⎦  produces a balancing force vector 
{ }( , )pQ ω ω  which is mainly utilized to suppress the vibration amplitude.  In Module 
transformed into frequency domain to compare with those experimental FRF curves.  
For the induction motor studied, the rotating shaft is machined from the 
medium-carbon steel and the Silicon steel core is formed by stacking with the 50H800 
type silicon steel laminations.  The related mechanical material properties of rotating 
shaft are given in Table I.  Unfortunately, the Young’s modulus of the Silicon steel 
core assembly is usually difficult to determine.  Therefore, following [13], an 
acceptable treatment is suggested that the properties of the lamination stacks were 
varied until frequencies as checked from the FEA model are compared and agree with 
those of the modal testing.  
A schematic of the experiment for the rotor tested is as shown in Fig. 9.  As can be 
seen in the figure, the rotor is supported with rubber bands at the both ends to 
simulate the case of free boundary conditions.  An accelerometer (ENDEVCO 
2250A-10) was mounted at the rear end of the Silicon steel core (i.e., point A) and a 
hammer (DYTRAN 58003 A3) applied an impulsive force to excite the system at the 
lateral direction of rotor (i.e., point B).  The corresponding FRF curve can be 
displayed on the spectrum analyzer (SigLab 20-42). 
 
 
Fig. 9. Modal testing of the rotor. 
 
TABLE I 
MATERIAL PROPERTIES 
Rotating shaft (Medium-Carbon Steel) 
Young’s modulus 225 GPa 
Shear modulus 87.89 GPa 
Poisson’s ratio 0.28 
Density 7830.74 kg/m3 
Silicon steel core (50H800) 
represent the bearing stiffness correspondingly.  A general description for the ball 
bearing stiffness can be expressed as [14]: 
1/ 21.5
5ball
nK Cδδ=                        (10) 
2/3( )F Cδ
δ =                           (11) 
where n is the total number of steel balls included in the bearing construction(i.e., 10 
balls for the front bearing and 12 balls for rear bearing respectively), and δ  is the 
elastic deformation of the bearing in the direction of the applied radial loading F.  
The deformation constant Cδ  depends mainly on the bearing geometry and the 
relating charts are shown in [14].  In order to obtain the stiffness, the radial loading 
at each of bearing can be decided firstly from the static equilibrium analysis.  Then 
the deformation constants as built in Module II of Fig. 2, are selected by finding the 
elastic deformation δ  at the bearings.  When substituting above coefficients into 
(10) in turn, the ball bearing stiffness can be estimated as Kf  = 2.36×107 N/m and Kr  
= 3.09×107 N/m respectively. 
 
IV. TRANSIENT BEHAVIOR OF THE INDUCTION MOTOR 
After establishing the FEA model of the induction motor, it is then possible to 
conduct the dynamic analysis further.  The effects of the system parameters such as 
the material properties of Silicon steel core, clamping stiffness, and bearing stiffness 
to the dynamic behavior of system will be investigated as indicated in Module V of 
Fig. 2.  As explained earlier, the Silicon steel core (rotor) consisting of a series of 
stacked steel laminations that swirl around the center shaft with a designated angle.  
It is straight forward to assume that each of the laminated steel sheets is all the same 
and with similar mass eccentricity for each of them.  Also, the whole stack is rotated 
with a skewed angle of 24.5D  counting from the first lamination up to the last 
lamination relatively.  It is then reasonable to assume that there exists an eccentricity 
line that links the eccentricity of each lamination on the Silicon steel core which 
swirls up along the shaft.   
 
 
Fig. 11.  The adding balance masses and the distribution of continuous eccentricity. 
  
Fig. 13. Amplitude factors at bearing locations and balance planes. 
 
 
Fig. 14.  Amplitude factors at balance plane 1 for various materials of the Silicon 
steel core. 
 
  Fig. 14 shows the amplitude factors at the balance plane 1 for various types of 
Silicon steel core materials. The higher amplitude factors are appeared at the 
acceleration process when the material 50H1300 is used.  Meanwhile, the vibration 
amplitudes with other materials tend to have the amplitude factors ranging from 
0.0070  to 0.0075  at the working speeds.  It is of interesting to note that when 
referring to both Fig. 6 and Fig. 14, they are quite similar in the outlooks of those 
curves.  Actually, this similarity tell us that the amplitude factors are somewhat close 
related to the angular rotating speed no matter at the initial static state or at the final 
steady working speed state. 
 
 
 
Under the working condition of the induction motor, the rear bearing has heavier 
loads normally due to the rotor it supports is connected to the load through this end.    
Thus vital wear at the rear bearing is a serious consideration for the motor life.  
Generally, the bearing wear will cause the decrease of bearing stiffness and leads to 
the degradation of the machine performance.  It is then of interest to investigate the 
influences of the stiffness change in the rear bearing by means of the bearing stiffness 
ratios between the rear and front bearing.   Fig. 16 shows the amplitude factors at 
balance plane 1 for various ratios of the rear and front bearing stiffness, Kr/Kf.  When 
comparing with Fig. 15, the scale of amplitude factor caused by the drop of bearing 
stiffness is far greater than that of the clamping stiffness.  This reveals that the 
bearing stiffness dominates the vibration amplitude much more than the clamping 
stiffness.   In the situation when the rear bearing is slightly worn, the system is still 
stable if the stiffness ratio is kept to be larger than 0.1.  Specially, when the stiffness 
ratio is reduced to 0.003, the vibration amplitude will be larger than the air gap 
clearance ( 1.7η = ), and causing the destruction of the rotor. 
 
Fig. 17. Variations of the critical speeds under different bearing stiffness ratios. 
 
The occurrence of such disastrous incident can be interpreted from the results of 
the critical speed analysis for the system.  In fact, the largest amplitude is induced 
due to the first critical speed is encountered before the system speeds up to the 
working speed.  Fig. 17 shows that the variations of the first and second critical 
speeds with the change of the bearing stiffness ratios.  When the stiffness ratio is 
changed from 310−  to 310 , the first critical speed is increased from 1,614 rpm to 
39,171 rpm and the second critical speed is also increased from 72,802 rpm to 
135,668 rpm accordingly.   It is noted that both of the first two critical speeds are 
raised dramatically when the stiffness ratio range lies between 0.1 and 10.  What 
needs to be emphasized is that when the stiffness ratio is lower than 0.003, serious 
the balanced amplitude factor 1bη < , it tells that the vibration amplitude has been 
restrained and the adding balance masses are in effect.  
Fig. 18 shows the balanced amplitude factors at balance plane 1 for the different 
phase angles of adding balance masses with the eccentricity ratio e/Cr = 1 and the 
adding mass ratio m1, 2/m = 0.005 (m is the weight of Silicon steel core, and 1,2m   
represents the adding balance masses of 1m  and 2m  respectively).  
  As can be seen in the figure, for the case with effective balance of 1bη < , the 
phase angle 1θ  must lies between 60D  and 278D .  The balanced amplitude factor 
is reduced to the lowest when the phase angles are at 1 167.75θ = D  and 2 0θ = D .  
However, for the case when 1θ  is kept the same but the phase angle 2θ is changed 
into 180D , a not so good balancing effect will be resulted as indicated in the figure 
with the most smooth-going curve.  As has already been noted, the phase angle of 
1 167.75θ = D  is just located at an angular position of 180D  as measured from halfway 
of the 24.5D skew angle between m23 and m28.  To summarize, for the optimum 
balancing effect, balancing mass 2m  should be placed at an angular locations which 
is consistent with that of mass 1m .  In other words, the angular locations of the two 
adding masses must be the same so that the angle between masses 1m and 2m  is zero 
(i.e. phase angle 2θ =0) for being able to get the optimum balancing effect. 
 
 
Fig. 19. Balanced amplitude factors at balance plane 1 versus adding mass ratios for 
different eccentricity ratios. 
 
Base on the condition of the optimum phase angles of 1 167.75θ = D  and 2 0θ = D , 
the balanced amplitude factors versus the adding mass ratios for different values of 
analysis are integrated into the self-developed induction motor rotodynamic solution 
modules.  The significant effects of system parameters such as the speed curves, 
boundary stiffness and adding balance masses are all investigated extensively.  Some 
of the meaningful results are offered and summarized at below: 
  With different Silicon steel core materials used in the electromagnetic analysis, the 
results shows that there’re evident differences in the rotating speed and angular 
acceleration curves.  Although material 50H600 is normally considered for use in 
preventing the excessive temperature-raising so as to avoid the coil failure, material 
50H1300 is preferred sometimes since it takes the shortest time to get to the steady 
speed especially for the occasion of high frequency use. 
The dual-rotor FEA model can be applied quite successfully in exploring the 
dynamic properties of the induction motor system which includes the rotating shaft 
and the Silicon steel core when comparing with those results from the experimental 
modal testing method.  
The vibration amplitude of the system will be enlarged if the clamping stiffness is 
insufficient to clip the Silicon steel core (less than 610 N/m) firmly in position. This 
is often observed for the cases of too small shaft diameter or the matching holes in 
Silicon steel core is too large.   If the rear bearing that bears the major loading and 
the bearing stiffness ratio decreases to 0.003 such as caused by bearing wear, the 
resonance phenomenon will result in the catastrophic failure of the induction motor. 
For the case of eccentric unbalance, the adding balance masses normally will 
suppress the vibration amplitude of system effectively.  The locations of the adding 
balance masses are decided at the optimum phase angles of 1 167.75θ = D  and 2 0θ = D  
respectively.  The minimum balanced amplitude factor 0.022bη =  is observed in 
the effective balancing zone ( 1bη < ) for each of the eccentricity ratios studied.  The 
critical adding mass ratio (i.e. the adding mass ratio at the minimum balanced 
amplitude factor) can also be predicted through its linear relationship with the 
eccentricity ratio. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] J. S. Rao, Rotor Dynamics. New York: New Age International (P) Limited, 1996, 
pp. 69-73. 
[2] H. D. Nelson and J. M. McVaugh, “The Dynamics of Rotor-Bearing Systems 
Using Finite Elements,” J. Eng. Ind., vol. 98, no. 2, pp. 593-600, May 1976. 
[3] G. R. Cowper, “The Shear Coefficient in Timoshenko’s Beam Theory,” J. Appl. 
Mech., vol. 33, pp.335-340, Jun. 1966. 
[4] S. L. Edney, C. H. J. Fox, E. J. Williams, “Tapered Timoshenko finite elements for 
