行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
成果
報告  
 
以波前編碼技術擴展景深以實現遠距離虹膜識別系統 
The implementation of wavefront coding imaging system for image acquisition 
for realization of long-range iris recognition system 
 
 
 
計畫類別：個別型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2218-E-035 -002 
執行期間： 100年 2月 1日至 101年 1月 31日 
 
執行機構及系所：逢甲大學資訊工程學系 
 
計畫主持人：栗永徽 
協同主持人：田仲豪 
計畫參與人員：陳永霖、洪國恩 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：精簡報告   
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告：  
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
處理方式：立即公開查詢 
             
 
中   華   民   國  101年 4 月 30日 
 
1 
 
1. Introduction 
Using biometric signatures for identity recognition has been practiced for centuries. Recently, 
biometric technology has becoming an important research topic. The personal attributes used 
for a biometric identiﬁcation system can be physiological, such as facial features, ﬁngerprints, 
iris texture, retinal scans; or behavioral traits of an individual, such as voice, signature and 
keystroke style. Among these methods, iris recognition is the most attractive one to the 
researchers because of the nature of randomness of iris texture. Moreover, recognition based on 
iris texture has many advantages such as high entropy density, stability of the iris texture over a 
lifetime, and the high independency across individuals (even for the twins). According to the 
research from Prof. J. Daugman, we can see that the probability of false identification can be 
the order of 10
-10
[8-10]. 
There are several steps in iris recognition, including image acquisition, iris localization, feature 
extraction, signature encoding, and matching the iris codes to the stored database for 
recognition. Iris recognition has been applied to many fields, such as airport security, computer 
security and bank transactions, but existing iris recognition systems have disadvantages. One of 
them is that the depth of field is very small, and subjects’ eyes must be positioned carefully 
inside the focus range to capture qualified images, or the user will not be identified successfully. 
This issue becomes particularly important when we want to build a more unconstrained iris 
recognition system. Thus the focus of this project is how to build a system with large DOF for 
capturing iris images.  
Several research have used wavefront coding [6] technology to extend the depth of field of the 
iris recognition system [11,12]. Wavefront coding is the approach which employs a phase mask 
to modify the incoherent optical system, and makes the point spread function (PSF) insensitive 
to defocus. And in the previous referenced papers, all of them use a fixed phase mask which is 
optimized according to the desired depth of field and the trade-off between acceptable 
signal-to-noise ratio of the iris recognition system. But the fixed phase mask is only effective 
within the desired DOF range, which means that if the subject located out of the range then the 
phase mask must be redesigned to acquire good results. In this project, we use the spatial light 
modulator (SLM) as a programmable phase mask, so the phase mask can be optimized in real 
time varying with different depth ranges.  
 
2. Literature review 
Extending the depth of field (EDOF) of incoherent optical systems has been an active 
research topic for many years. The study of the EDOF was first carried out by Welford
 
in 1960 
[1], and several researches [2-5] were disclosed during the last three decades, the majority of 
the literature on this topic has concerned methods of employing an optical power-absorbing 
apodizer, but these methods decrease the aperture size of the optical system which may suffered 
from two significant problems, first is a decrease of optical power at the image plane, second is 
3 
 
Fig. 2 Experiment setup. Mach-Zender interferometer: 
light passing through M1 and M2, PSF measurement: 
light passing through M2 only 
pixel pitch is 32μm × 32μm. The principle of liquid crystal is that the birefringence will 
change according to different external electric field, and for LC-SLM, the birefringence is 
controlled by the input video signal. Because the LC-SLM modulates the amplitude and phase 
simultaneously, in order to minimize the amplitude modulation, the LC-SLM must be 
calibrated by using a pair of polarizer and analyzer, placing the LC-SLM between them and 
choose the appropriate orientation angle of the polarizer and analyzer then a phase modulator 
with small amplitude modulation can be acquired. 
 We used the free program, called phase cam from Holoeye [14], which can measure the phase  
and amplitude modulation. The software can address the gray level from 0 to 255 onto the 
active half of the gray level window automatically. We set up a Mach-Zender interferometer in 
the experiment setup (Fig. 2), and the gray level in the right window keeps 0 while the gray 
level in the left window is varying per 5 steps, in such case the amplitude modulation of the 
interference induced by different gray level can be calculated. We chose 36 orientations of the 
polarizer and found the respective orientations of the analyzer will cause the shape of the PSF 
more similar to the ideal situation when we use the mask with cubic form. The amplitude of the 
Fig. 3 Amplitude modulation of input gray level from 
0~255 
5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
5.  Conclusion 
In the project, we use the LC-SLM as a programmable device for extending the depth of field 
of the iris recognition system and the result shows that the image is insensitive to defocus but 
also becomes blurry due to the large size of PSFs. Our future work will focus on the decoding 
of the blurred iris image, and calculate the Hamming distance to measure the dissimilarity 
between two irises for the recognition stage and then implementing this method to a real iris 
recognition image capturing system. 
 
6.  References  
[1] W. T. Welford, “Use of annular apertures to increase focal depth,” J. Opt. Soc. Am., 50, 
pp.749-754, 1960. 
[2] M. Mino and Y. Okano, “Improvement in the optical transfer function of a defocused 
optical system through the use of shaded apertures,” Appl. Opt., 10, pp. 2219-2225, 1971. 
[3] J. Ojeda-Castañeda, P. Andres, and A. Diaz, “Annular apodizers for low sensitivity to 
defocus and to spherical aberration,” Opt. Lett., 11, pp.487-489, 1986. 
[4] J. Ojeda-Castañeda, E. Tepichin and A. Diaz, “Arbitrary high focal depth with a 
quasioptimum real and positive transmittance apodizer,” Appl. Opt., 28, pp.2666-2670, 
1989. 
[5] J. Ojeda-Castañeda and L. R. Berriel-Valdos, “Zone plate for arbitrarily high focal depth,” 
Appl. Opt., 29, pp.994-997, 1990. 
[6] E. R. Dowski and W. T. Cathey, “Extended depth of field through wavefront coding”, 
Applied Optics, 34, 11, pp1859-1866, 1995. 
[7] S. Bradburn, W. T. Cathey and E. R. Dowski, Jr., “Realizations of focus invariance in 
optical-digital systems with wave-front coding,” Appl. Opt., 36, pp.9157-9166, 1997.  
[8] J. Daugman, "The importance of being random: statistical principles of iris recognition," 
Pattern Recognition 36, 279-291 (2003). 
Fig. 5 (a) The PSF of the system without cubic phase 
modulation (b) The PSF of the system with cubic 
phase modulation 
Fig. 6 (a) The simulated iris without cubic phase modulation (b) The 
simulated iris with cubic phase modulation 
7 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是
否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評
估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心
得報告 
                                     
日期： 100  年 11  月 1  日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
2011國際工程與技術大會是一個綜合型的超大型國際
學術研討會，內含 15個在工程與科技領域最尖端的研發成果
的會議。這個會議對於大學教授、企業研發人員來說是一個
很好的學書交流環境，使得來自不同國家、不同領域的人齊
聚一堂，探討當前最重要、挑戰度最高的科技問題。 
本人所發表的學術論文被排定於其中的 Oral 
Presentation 5: Electrical Engineering, Electronics 
Engineering and Communications. 大會邀請本人擔任該場
次的 session chair, 負責安排、協調每個發表人的順序與
時間，本人覺得與有榮焉。 
二、與會心得 
計畫編號 NSC 100-2218-E-035 -002 
計畫名稱 以波前編碼技術擴展景深以實現遠距離虹膜識別系統 
出國人員
姓名 
栗永徽 
服務機構及
職稱 
逢甲大學資訊工程系 
會議時間 
100年 10月 28日
至 100年 10月 31
日 
會議地點 
中國大陸上海市虹口
區逸仙路 328號 
會議名稱 
(中文)2011國際工程與技術大會 
(英文)2011 World Congress on Engineering and 
Technology 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)一個適用於遠距離虹膜識別的有效率且強健的虹
膜切割演算法 
(英文) A Robust and Efficient Iris Segmentation 
Algorithm for Long-Range Iris Recognition 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
此研究成果已經引起企業界注意，最近有台中豪宅建商與本人洽談，希望能引
進虹膜識別技術於豪宅的地下停車場與社區的門禁管理系統。此技術有希望在
未來 2-3 年商業化而成為豪宅的奢華設備之一。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
