 2
been successfully implemented to integrate the 
tri-band transceiver front-end for global system 
for mobile communications (GSM) 
applications into one single package. 
Quarter-wavelength (λ/4) transmission lines 
are widely used as building blocks for 
RF/microwave passive component designs 
such as power dividers and hybrid couplers 
[15]. At low frequencies, a λ/4 line is quite 
long. Therefore, the miniaturization of 
transmission line is crucial for size reduction of 
RF/microwave passive components. 
Conventionally, size reduction of the 
transmission line can be accomplished by using 
lumped inductors and capacitors to realize the 
T- or π-equivalent circuits of transmission line 
[15]. However, these equivalent-circuit models 
may only be considered as equivalents to 
transmission lines in a very narrow bandwidth. 
To expand the applicable frequency range, 
the modified-T equivalent-circuit [16] shown 
in Fig. 1 may be adopted. It is accomplished by 
introducing a small positive mutual inductance 
LM between the two series inductors Ls in a 
conventional T-equivalent circuit of 
transmission line, along with a coupling 
capacitor Cp between the input and output ports. 
The positive mutual inductance LM will in 
effect increase the magnitude of shunt 
impedance to ground at higher frequencies. In 
addition, the series capacitor Cp will provide a 
proper signal path at higher frequencies 
between the input and output ports. Therefore, 
lower insertion loss at higher frequencies may 
be obtained compared to the conventional 
T-equivalent circuit, and the bandwidth of the 
transmission-line equivalent is much expanded. 
Given the required characteristic impedance 
and electrical delay, the element values in the 
modified-T equivalent-circuit can be obtained 
analytically as [16]: 
 
In this study, by taking advantage of the 
multi-layered low temperature co-fired ceramic 
(LTCC) substrate, the modified-T 
equivalent-circuit is conveniently realized in a 
very compact circuit area. As a result, one may 
easily build miniature microwave passive 
components based on the proposed 
lumped-element transmission line.  
II. CIRCUIT DESIGN  
研究方法，結果與討論 
A. Lumped-Element Transmission Line  
Shown in Fig. 2 is the circuit layout of 
proposed lumped-element transmission line 
[17]. Here, the two series inductors Ls in Fig. 1 
are realized by spiral metal strips La and Lb. 
The spiral inductors La and Lb are stacked-up 
vertically and the orientations of them are 
designed in the same sense, such that a positive 
mutual inductance LM is established between 
them. The coupling capacitor Cp is also 
conveniently formed between the two spiral 
inductors in this way. The shunt capacitor Cs is 
implemented by the sandwich-type metal plates 
and the bottom ground plane. Due to the 
vertical arrangement of circuit elements and the 
utilization of mutual coupling, the resulted 
circuit may achieve a very compact size while 
maintaining a frequency response close to that 
of a transmission line for a wide frequency 
range. 
The lumped-element transmission line in  
Fig. 2 is realized in a multilayered LTCC 
substrate with εr = 9.4, tanδ = 0.0014, and layer 
thickness h = 100um. The lumped-element 
transmission line is designed with a 
characteristic impedance of 50ohm and an 
electrical length of 90o at about 1800 MHz. 
The required element values are obtained by (1) 
as follows: Ls = 2.44 nH, LM = 1.03 nH, Cs = 
2.78 pF, and Cp = 0.28 pF. The corresponding 
geometrical parameters are first obtained by the 
quasi-static simulation tool Ansoft Q3D and 
are then fine-tuning in the full-wave simulation 
tool Ansoft HFSS. Shown in Fig. 3 are the 
measured and simulated frequency responses. 
(1) 
 4
Wilkinson power divider [15]. Here, two λ/4 
transmission lines of characteristic impedance 
Z1 = 70.7ohm are employed. Therefore, the 
circuit size will be quite large especially for 
lower frequencies.  
To reduce the circuit size, the proposed 
lumped-element transmission line is again used 
to replace the λ/4 transmission lines in the 
original design. Shown in Fig. 8 is the layout of 
resulting miniature LTCC Wilkinson power 
divider. It’s simulated frequency response is 
shown in Fig. 9. At the center frequency of 
2GHz, the simulated insertion loss is about 
3.2dB, return loss ≈ -13.5dB, and the isolation 
≈ 14.5dB. This LTCC power divider is 
currently under fabrication. Note that the 
circuit size of it is only about 1.6mm×0.8mm. 
By utilizing the proposed lumped-element 
transmission line structure in multilayered 
substrates such as LTCC, transmission-line 
based microwave passive components of very 
compact sizes can easily be built. These 
miniature passive components are very suitable 
for system on package design. This may 
achieve the reduction of size and cost for 
handheld wireless communication apparatus. 
III. CONCLUSION 
結論與建議 
In this study, novel miniature 
lumped-element transmission line based on the 
LTCC substrate is proposed. By realizing the 
modified-T model of transmission line in the 
multilayered LTCC substrate, the required 
circuit size can be largely reduced. Through the 
replacement of ideal transmission line by 
proposed lumped-element transmission line, 
microwave passive components, such as 
branch-line coupler and Wilkinson power 
divider, of very compact circuit sizes can be 
easily developed. The proposed miniature 
microwave passive components are very useful 
for the development of miniature system on 
package modules for applications in the 
wireless communication systems. 
IV. REFERENCES 
參考文獻 
[1] T. Watanabe, K. Furutani, N. Nakajima, and 
H. Mandai, “Antenna switch duplexer for 
dualband phone (GSM/DCS) using LTCC 
multiplayer Technology,” in IEEE MTT-S 
Int. Microwave Symp. Dig., pp. 215-218, 
1999. 
[2] M. Hikita, N. Matsuura, K. Yokoyama, N. 
Shibagaki, and K. Sakiyama, “SAW 
front-end module for GSM-based 
dual-band cellular phones with 
direct-conversion demodulation,” IEEE 
Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 50, pp. 
2629-2638, Nov. 2002. 
[3] R. Lucero, W. Qutteneh, A. Pavio, D. 
Meyers, and J. Estes, “Design of an LTCC 
switch diplexer front-end module for 
GSM/DCS/PCS applications,” in IEEE 
Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit (RFIC) 
Symp. Dig., pp. 213-216, 2001. 
[4] R. Lucero, A. Pavio, D. Penunuri, and J. 
Bost, “Design of an LTCC integrated 
tri-band direct conversion receiver 
front-end module,” in IEEE MTT-S Int. 
Microwave Symp. Dig., pp. 1545-1548, 
2002. 
[5] C.-H. Lee, A. Sutono, S. Han, K. Lim, S. 
Pinel, E. M. Tentzeris, and J. Laskar, “A 
compact LTCC-based Ku-band transmitter 
module,” IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory 
Tech., vol. 25, pp. 374-384, Aug. 2003. 
[6] A. Sutono, D. Heo, Y.-J. E. Chen, and J. 
Laskar, “High-Q LTCC-based passive 
library for wireless system-on-package 
(SOP) module development,” IEEE 
Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 49, pp. 
1715-1724, Oct. 2001. 
[7] K. Kunihiro, S. Yamanouchi, H. Dodo, T. 
Miyazaki, N. Hayama, M. Fujii, Y. Aoki, Y. 
Takahashi, K. Numata, K. Haraguchi, T. 
Ohtsuka, K. Ikuina, and H. Hida, “A 
0.08-cc fully integrated LTCC transceiver 
front-end module for 5-GHz wireless LAN 
systems,” in RAWCON Radio and Wireless 
Conference Proceedings, 2003, pp. 
357-360.  
[8] J. W. Sheen, “LTCC-MLC duplexer for 
 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
Cs
Cp
Ls Ls
LM
Cs
-LM
Ls+LMLs+LM
Cp
 
(b) 
Fig. 1. (a) The modified-T model of transmission 
line [1], and (b) its equivalent-circuit model. 
  
Layer 1
Layer 2
Layer 3
Layer 4
Port 1
Port 2
La
Lb
Cs
Cp
Ground
 
Fig. 2.  Layout of proposed miniature LTCC 
lumped- element transmission-line. 
  
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0
|S
21
| (
dB
)
|S
11
| (
dB
)
|S21|
|S11|
Frequency (GHz)
-180
-90
0
90
180
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
S
21
 (D
eg
re
e)
HFSS
Measurement
Fig. 3.  Measured and simulated results for the 
proposed LTCC lumped-element transmission-line.
Fig. 4.  Circuit model of the conventional 
branch-line coupler. 
  
 
 8
 
(a)  
(b) 
Fig. 8.  Layout of proposed miniature Wilkinson
power divider (a) Top view and (b) 3D view. 
  
 
Fig. 9.  Simulated frequency responses of the 
proposed miniature LTCC Wilkinson power 
divider. 
Port1 
Port3
Port2 
90 IEEE MICROWAVE AND WIRELESS COMPONENTS LETTERS, VOL. 16, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2006
A Compact LTCC Branch-Line Coupler Using
Modified-T Equivalent-Circuit Model
for Transmission Line
Tsung-Nan Kuo, Yo-Shen Lin, Chi-Hsueh Wang, and Chun Hsiung Chen, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—In this letter, a compact branch-line coupler is pro-
posedbymakinggooduseof the three-dimensional layoutcapability
of the low-temperature co-fired ceramic (LTCC) substrate. This
branch-line coupler is accomplished by using lumped-inductors
and lumped-capacitors to realize the modified-T equivalent-circuit
model for the transmission line so that the circuit size may drasti-
cally be reduced. Specifically, a very compact LTCC branch-line
coupler with a size of 0.079 0.0717 is implemented and
carefully examined, where is the wavelength of the multilayer
structure at the operating frequency
0
.
Index Terms—Branch-line coupler, low-temperature co-fired ce-
ramic (LTCC).
I. INTRODUCTION
BRANCH-LINE couplers are useful as power dividersor power combiners in various microwave circuits such
as balanced amplifiers, balanced mixers, and phase shifters.
Up to now, branch-line couplers were implemented using the
microstrip [1], stripline [2], finite-ground coplanar waveguide
(CPW) [3], and multilayer structures [4], however their sizes
are relatively large due to the use of quarter-wavelength ( 4)
transmission lines. Thus, the reduction of the size associated
with these transmission lines is essential in decreasing the
size of the branch-line coupler. Conventionally, there are two
ways to reduce the size of transmission lines. The first one is
achieved by using the folded line configuration [5], [6], but the
resultant circuit area is still large. The other is accomplished by
adopting lumped-element components such as metal-insulator-
metal (MIM) capacitors [7]–[9], however, it needs precise
lumped-element models based on careful measurements and
leads to an inconvenient layout for tight integration.
With the three-dimensional (3-D) layout capability, the
LTCC has the greatest flexibility to implement numerous cou-
pling mechanisms that would not be possible in planar circuits.
Manuscript received August 25, 2005; revised October 18, 2005. This
work was supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan, R.O.C.,
under Grants NSC-94-2752-E-002-001-PAE, NSC-94-2213-E-002-055, and
NSC-94-2213-E-008-042. The review of this letter was arranged by Associate
Editor J.-G. Ma.
T.-N. Kuo, C.-H. Wang, and C. H. Chen are with the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Graduate Institute of Communication Engi-
neering, National Taiwan University, Taipei 106, Taiwan, R.O.C. (e-mail:
chchen@ew.ee.ntu.edu.tw).
Y.-S. Lin is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, National Central
University, Chungli 320, Taiwan, R.O.C.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/LMWC.2005.863194
Fig. 1. Circuit diagram of the conventional branch-line coupler.
Fig. 2. Lumped-element modified-T equivalent-circuit model for a
transmission line.
Basically, lumped-element realization of the transmission line
in LTCC substrate, using the T or equivalent-circuit model
[10], may be employed to reduce the circuit size, however
these equivalent models are useful only in a narrow bandwidth
around the center frequency. In order to expand the applicable
frequency range of the equivalent circuit, this letter adopts the
five-element modified-T model for the 4 lines [11], [12],
so that a very compact LTCC branch-line coupler may be
implemented.
II. COUPLER DESIGN AND RESULTS
The structure of conventional branch-line coupler made of
4 transmission lines is shown in Fig. 1 where 35.36 ,
50 , and 90 . For size reduction, the modified-T
equivalent-circuit model [12] as shown in Fig. 2 is adopted to
replace the 4 transmission lines in the coupler design. Ac-
cording to the given characteristic impedance, electrical delay,
and the operating frequency of 2.4 GHz, the required
1531-1309/$20.00 © 2006 IEEE
