 2
ABSTRACT 
In this study, carboxylic acid group containing polyurethane was synthesized with the mole 
ratio of 4 to 1.5 to 0.5 for diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI) to polytetramethaneglycol 
(PTMG) to (DMPA), which was defined as A2. It was then mixed with the polyurethane 
synthesized with the mole ratio of 4 to 1 to 1 for DMI to 1,4-BD to PTMG, which was defined as 
A1. Both the polymers were using ethylene diamine. We use quasi-nanometer zirconium carbide 
(ZrC) to compose with polyurethane resin (PU obtained from the ratio of A1 to A2 for 90 to 10) 
under roller pressure to form the composite film to study the effect of ZrC particles on the 
thermal properties, it is found that the values of tensile strength at break, elongation at break, and 
modulus are gradually decreased with the increasing of ultraviolet (UV) irradiation time for both 
the films of PU and PU/ZrC composite; but this phenomenon is significantly higher for PU film 
than that for ZrC/PU composite film. The construction of the PU film is changed after UV 
irradiation, but that of PU/ZrC composite film is not (almost not) changed. The degradation of 
PU molecules is occurred in the absence of ZrC particles after irradiating with UV light, but is 
not (almost not) occurred in the presence of ZrC particles. This is confirmed with Fourier 
Transform Infrared Spectroscopy and Gel-Permeation Chromatography analyses. The reasons are 
suggested that the polymer radicals formed from photo-oxidation of UV irradiation and the free 
radicals formed from photo-reduction of nanometer ZrC/UV irradiation will interact to form a 
dead polymer to cease the degradation; simultaneously, the chemical bonding between polymer 
molecules will be re-formed from free radicals created by photo-oxidation and photo-reduction so 
as to decrease the mobility of PU molecules, which could raise the values of Tg and Tm of soft 
segment. 
 
Key Words 
compoistes, glass transition, melting point, polyurethanes, thermalgravimetric analysis (TGA) 
 
Introduction 
It is known that the mineral particles can release the far infrared ray and can be used in 
healthy textile materials1. Other nanometer particles such as nanometer titanium dioxide were 
used on the fields of anti-bacteria, electron conductance, and anionic release etceteras2-4. 
Additionally, the addition of clay to the resins such as polypropylene, nylon, or polyester could 
improve the mechanical and chemical properties of clay-resin composite5-12. Our previous study13 
revealed that the ether and ester groups of polyurethane polymer could interact with zirconium 
carbide (ZrC) particles to improve the strength and thermal properties of the composite prepared 
under roller pressure without the surface modification of nanometer particles.  
Generally, the use of resin or nanometer particle/resin composite films on the field of the 
decoration or other surface parts of a building such as the surface of floor needs stronger 
mechanical property for the long-term use. The exposure of ultraviolet (UV) irradiation under 
atmosphere condition is unavoidably and the degradation of resin molecules is inevitably. This 
degradation is known as a reaction of photo-oxidation14-15. Scott et al.14 pointed out that this 
photo-oxidation could be happened during processing and usage of the materials. This photo-
-oxidation created the various forms of free radical, but one of the finally products is generally 
carboxylic acid. Carbonyl index was used as the key to determine the degree of photo-oxidation 
under irradiation16. Abu-Zeid et al.17 revealed that polyurethane polymer was easily degradable 
under UV irradiation even under low dosage. Govorčin Bajsićet al.18 attributed the degradation of 
polyurethane (PU) under UV irradiation for two steps: the first step was the degradation of the 
hard segment and the second step was the soft segment. On the other hand, it is well known that 
the nanometer particles could have the reaction of photo-reduction after the absorbing of UV light. 
Our interesting is the effect of photo-reduction on the physical and thermal properties of 
composite films, which is caused by nanometer zirconium carbide (ZrC) particles under the 
irradiation of UV light.  
In this study, we will use quasi-nanometer ZrC to compound with polyurethane (PU) under 
the roller pressure about 1.0 kg/cm2
 
at room temperature and then to form the films for the 
 4
ml/min and at a heating rate of 3℃/min from -50℃ to 50℃ with the frequency of 10 Hz.  
Gel-Permeation Chromatography (GPC)  
PU/ZrC composite film weighted 0.5 gram was dissolved with 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran 
(THF) and then filtered with a filter having pore size about 5-10μm to avoid the clog of gel 
column by the particles of zirconium carbide. Pristine PU film was also dissolved and filtered for 
comparison. The values of number-average molecular weight (Mn) were measured with 
gel-permeation chromatography (LAB ALLIANCE Series III, PerkinElmer Co. Ltd., 
Pennsylvania, U.S.A.) with 0.02 ml of the polymer solutions under 40℃. PL gel column was 
used in this study. 
 
Results and Discussion 
    Table 1 shows the data of tensile strength at break, elongation at break, and modulus of 
PU/ZrC composite film and PU film before and after UV irradiation for the various time periods. 
The values of tensile strength at break and modulus for pristine PU/ZrC composite film is higher 
than that for pristine PU film. Some investigations also showed the similar tendencies for the 
clay/polypropylene, nylon, or polyester composites 6,9,10. Our previous study13 pointed out that 
the physical properties (especially the tensile strength) of the nanometer particle/resin composite 
films were higher than that of resin film. On the other hand, the value of elongation at break for 
pristine PU film is higher than that for pristine PU/ZrC composite film. This result is also similar 
to that of our previous study13. Additionally, the values of tensile strength at break, elongation at 
break, and modulus are gradually decreased with the increasing of UV irradiation time for both 
the films. This phenomenon is attributed to the photo-oxidation15 under UV irradiation, under 
which the polymer molecules would be degraded to lower the mechanical properties. However, 
the degree of corruption on the strength and modulus for PU film is significantly higher than that 
for ZrC/PU composite film. This phenomenon highly interested us to investigate the differences 
of thermal and other properties between the ZrC/PU composite film and PU film after UV 
irradiation and affirm the possible reasons causing those differences. 
    Firstly, those patterns of thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) for the PU film and PU/ZrC 
composite film before and after 7 hours’ UV irradiation are shown in Figures 1(a), 1(b), 1(c), and 
1(d), separately. Those figures reveal that the amount of char yield for PU/ZrC composite film is 
obviously higher than that for PU film and the value is not changed by the irradiation of UV light. 
The higher value of char yield for PU/ZrC composite film is clearly caused by the 
un-decomposition of ZrC particles under such temperatures. From Figure 1, we can obtain the 
values of char yield temperature and the temperatures having 20% weight loss. They are listed in 
Table 2. The lower temperature of char yield temperature and higher temperature having 20% 
weight loss for PU/ZrC composite film as compared with that for PU film is attributed to the 
interaction between PU molecules and ZrC particles13. One interesting phenomenon can be seen 
from those TGA figures is that the pattern for pristine PU/ZrC composite film is similar to that 
for PU/ZrC composite film after 7 hours’ irradiation; however, the pattern for pristine PU film is 
obviously different from that for PU film after 7 hours’ irradiation around 300 to 400℃. 
Obviously, the UV irradiation could change the construction of PU film, but not (almost not) 
change that of PU/ZrC composite film. 
    In order to confirm the difference of decomposition temperature between the two films after 
UV irradiation, the values of the derivation of weight versus the temperature of heating for the 
pristine PU film and pristine PU/ZrC composite film before and after 7 hours’ UV irradiation are 
shown in Figures 2(a), 2(b), 2(c), and 2(d), separately. From those figures, we can obtain the data 
of first decomposition temperature and second decomposition temperature, which are listed in 
Table 2. Those data show that the values of first decomposition temperature and second 
decomposition temperature for pristine PU film are higher than that for pristine PU/ZrC 
composite film. The easier decomposition for the PU/ZrC composite film is caused by the 
interaction between PU molecules and ZrC particles13. Additionally, the values of first 
decomposition temperature and second decomposition temperature for the PU film after 7 hours’ 
UV irradiation are higher than those for pristine PU film, but the peak for PU film after 7 hours’ 
UV irradiation in Figure 2(b) shows broadly than that for pristine PU film on the first stage of 
 6
after UV irradiation is broader than that for pristine PU/ZrC composite film. The narrower 
temperature range of phase transition and lower Tg value of PU film after UV irradiation is surely 
caused by the degradation of PU polymer in the amorphous region. However, the degradation of 
polymer molecules cannot explain the result of higher value of Tg for PU/ZrC composite film 
after UV irradiation (Figure 5(d)). The other possible mechanism in the case of PU/ZrC 
composite film under UV irradiation is therefore supposed as that the termination of 
decomposition. That is the free radical created from photo-reduction20, 21 of ZrC under UV light 
might react with the radical of PU polymer created from photo-oxidation15 under UV light, 
therefore the PU polymer radical would be becoming a dead polymer to terminate the degradation 
reaction. Meanwhile, those polymer radicals created by photo-oxidation and photo-reduction may 
re-form the chemical bonding between polymer chains to decrease the mobility of PU molecules. 
On the other hand, the absorption of UV light by ZrC nanometer particles could also decrease the 
degradation of PU polymers.  
    From above experimental results, the photo-chemical degradation and re-forming of PU 
polymer irradiated with UV presence/absence of ZrC particles were suggested as Scheme 1. For 
PU film, some polymer chains were broken, therefore the Tg value and physical properties were 
significantly lowered down after UV irradiation. For PU/ZrC film, partial polymer radicals 
caused from PU/ZrC might be re-formed to decrease the mobility of PU molecules. Therefore, 
the Tg value was increased. However, the partial degradation of PU molecules makes the 
decrease of the physical properties of PU/ZrC film not so significantly. The higher value of Tg for 
PU/ZrC film than that for PU film indicates the higher inter-molecular force an the closer 
inter-molecular distance between PU polymer molecules, which might create the chance of 
re-forming between the polymer radical shown in Scheme 1. Scheme 1 also shows the chemical 
reaction between the free radical created from photo-reduction of ZrC under UV light and the 
radical of PU polymer created from photo-oxidation under UV light. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figures 6(a), 6(b), 6(c), and 6(d) show the patterns of dynamic mechanical analysis for (a) 
pristine PU film, (b) PU film after 7 hours’ UV irradiation, (c) pristine PU/ZrC composite film, 
and (c) PU/ZrC composite film after 7 hours’ UV irradiation, separately. The higher value of 
storage modulus means the higher energy needed to move of molecular segment in the 
R2
H
N
O
C O R1 O
O
C
H
N R2
(a) Possible examples of decomposed PU
R2 NH + OC O R1 O
O
C
H
N R2
or
R2
H
N
O
C O R1 O OC
H
N R2+
R1: O CH2CH2CH2CH2 H2CH2CH2CH2CO
or
or
Other polymer raicals causing from the presence oh H2O and O2
(b) Possible examples
     of decomposed and
     re-formed PU
R2
H
N
O
C O R1 O
R2
H
N
O
C O R1 O
O
C
H
N R2
OC
H
N R2+
+ re-forming
R2
H
N
O
C R1 OCONH R2
(c) Possible examples of 
     photo-reduction
ZrC
hvb
+
+ ecb
hvb
+ + H2O
H+ + OH
R2
H
N
O
C O R1 OOH
(dead polymer)
Scheme 1. Some possible photo-chemical reacions occured of PU under UV irrdition. (a): PU film; 
                 (b) PU/ZrC; (c): ZrC.
+ UV
 8
bonding between polymer molecules is re-formed from free radicals created by photo-oxidation 
and photo-reduction, which could decrease the mobility of PU molecules to raise the values of Tg 
and Tm pf soft segment. 
 
References 
 
1.  Jung, Y. K. Far Infrared Ray Diffusing Mat, US 6,108,581, Aug. 22, 2000.  
2.  Kim, Y. G. Multi-Functional Material Emitting Far-Infrared Ray in Aqueous Phase and the 
Use Thereof, EP 1,390,083, Nov. 7, 2002.  
3.  Cho, J. E.; Kim, E. Y. Powers Which Have an Anti-Bacterial and a Far Infrared Ray 
Radiating Property and a Bio-Wave Steel Plate Which is Coated with Resin Containing the 
same, EP 1,355,866, Oct. 29, 2003. 
4.  Toru, T. Tourmaline Sheet, JP 2003112381, April 15, 2003.  
5.  Usuki, A.; Kojima, Y.; Kawasumi, M.; Okada, A.; Fukushima, Y.; Kuracshi, T.; and 
Kamigaito, O. J Mat Res 1993, 5, 1179.  
6.  Kojima, Y.; Usuki, A.; Kawasumi, M.; Okada, A.; Kuracshi, T.; Kamigaito O. J Appl Polym 
Sci 1993, 49, 1259.  
7.  Kojima, Y.; Usuki, A.; Kawasumi, M.; Okada, A.; Fukushima, Y.; Kuracshi, T.; Kamigaito, O. 
J Mater Res 1993, 8, 1179.  
8.  Ogata, N.; Kawakage, S.; Ogihara, T. J Appl Polym Sci 1997, 66, 573.  
9.  Laval, T. Nanocomposite Polymer Container, US Pat. 5,876,812, March 2, 1999.  
10. Ke, Y. C.; Long, C. F.; Qi, Z. N. J Appl Polym Sci 1999, 71, 1139.  
11. Vaia, R. A.; Jandt, K. D.; Kramer, E. J.; Giannelis, E. P. Macromolecules, 1995, 28, 8080.  
12. Gonsalves, K. E.; Chen, X. H. Polym Mater Sci Eng 1995, 73, 285.  
13. Suen, M. C; Chen, C. C. J Appl Polym Sci 2006, 100, 191.  
14. Scott, G; Gilead, D. Degradable Polymers － Principles and Applications, Chapman & Hall, 
NY, 1995.  
15. Grassie, N; Scott, G. Degradation and Stabilization of Polymers, Cambridge University Press, 
Chapter 4, 1985.  
16. Davis, A; Sims, D. Weathering of Polymers, App. Sci. Pub. Chapter 6, 1983.  
17. Abu-Zeid, M. E.; Nofal, L. A.; Tahseen, L. A.; Abdul-Rasoul, F. A.; Ledwith, A. J Appl Polym 
Sci 1984, 29, 2443.  
18. Govorčin Bajsić, E.; Rek, V. J Appl Polym Sci 2001, 79, 864.  
19. Silverstein, R. M.; Bassler, G. C.; Morrill, T. C. Infrared Spectrometric Identification of 
Organic compounds, 3th ed., John Wiley & Sons, Inc., NY, 1974, pp.136.  
20. Wang, Z.; Liu, Y.; Zhang, Z. Handbook of Nanophase and Nanostructured Materials － 
Characterization, Kluwer Academic/Plenum Publisher, New York, 2002, pp. 997.  
21. Li, Y. Photochemical reactions on semiconductor particles for organic synthesis, In Organic 
Photochemistry (Edited by V. Ramamurthy, and K. S. Schanze), Chap. 8, Dekker, New York, 
1997. 
 
摘要 
本研究使用DMI:PTMG:DMPA為 4:1.5:0.5製成之 PU定義為A2；以DMI:PTMG:1,4-BD
為 4:1:1 製成之 PU 定義為 A1。兩者均以 EDA 為鏈延長劑。本計畫使用微奈米(ZrC)以所合
成之 PU (由 A1 比 A2 為 80 比 20 組成)於羅拉之壓力下形成複合材料膜以研究 ZrC 對 UV
照射下，ZrC 對此複合膜之熱性質之影響。結果發現，單獨 PU 膜與複合膜之破斷強度、破
斷伸度與彈性係數均隨 UV 照射時間之增加而漸減，但複合膜之減失現象相當不明顯。單
獨PU膜經照射後高分子之分解十分明顯，而複合膜則幾乎不發生；這種現象經GPC及FTIR
分析證實。可能原因為 ZrC 在 UV 照射下因光還原作用產生之游離基與 UV 光照射下我產生
之游離基，因分子間距離較近而形成不具活波性之聚合體而終止分解作用；同時因高分子
游離基間之重組致分子鏈之熱運動不易 Tg 升高、相轉移溫度範圍憎大，同時造成軟鏈之
Tm 升高。 
 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. FT-IR spectra obtained from (a) pristine PU film and         Figure 4. FT-IR spectra of the films obtained from (a) pristine PU/ZrC 
(b) PU film after 7 hours’ UV irradiation.                          composite film and (b) PU/ZrC composite film after 7 hours’ 
                                                                   UV irradiation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. DSC thermograms (from -50  to 125 ) obtained from the       Figure 6. Patterns of DMA (from -50 to 50 ) obtained from the (a) 
(a) pristine PU film, (b) PU film after 7 hours’ UV                    pristine PU film, (b) PU film after 7 hours’ UV irradiation 
        irradiation, (c) PU/ZrC composite film, and (d) PU/ZrC                (c) PU/ZrC composite film, and (d) PU/ZrC composite 
        composite film after 7 hours’ UV irradiation.                         film after 7 hours’ UV irradiation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Patterns of Wide Angle X-Ray Diffraction obtained from the 
        (a) pristine PU film, (b) PU film after 7 hours’ UV irradiation, 
        (c) PU/ZrC composite film, and (d) PU/ZrC composite film 
        after 7 hours’ UV irradiation.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
