2Multiple Optical Traps with a Single-Beam Optical
Tweezer Utilizing Surface Micromachined Planar Curved
Grating
Ju-Nan Kuo and Kuan-Yu Chen
Department of Automation Engineering, National Formosa University
Abstract: This paper presents a single-beam optical tweezer integrated
with a planar curved diffraction grating for microbead manipulation.
Various curvatures of the surface micromachined planar curved grating
are systematically investigated. The planar curved grating was
fabricated using multi-user MEMS processes (MUMPs) provided by
MEMSCAP Inc. The angular separation and the number of diffracted
orders were determined. Experimental results indicate that the
diffraction patterns and the curvature of the planar curved grating are
closely related. As the curvature of planar grating increases, the
vertical diffraction angle increases, resulting in strip patterns of the
planar curved grating. A single-beam optical tweezer integrated with a
planar curved diffraction grating was developed. We demonstrate a
technique for creating multiple optical traps from a single laser beam
using the developed planar curved grating. The strip patterns of the
planar curved grating that result from diffraction were used to trap one
row of polystyrene beads.
1. Introduction
Since Ashkin et al. introduced optical traps in 1986,1) single-beam optical
tweezers have become indispensable tools for a wide range of inter-disciplinary
research, such as the exploration of small interaction forces,2,3) the manipulation of
single cells,4) and the assembly of microstructures on the micro and nano scales.5)
Optical tweezers work on the principle of creating an intensity gradient that is exerted
by tightly focused laser beams to trap and move objects. The optical forces generated
by a milliwatt laser beam are more than enough to overcome the random thermal
forces which drive the dynamics of microparticles. Although optical tweezers have
numerous and diverse applications, the fact that only a single particle can be trapped
with one laser beam is a constraint. When a number of particles have to be trapped
simultaneously, multiple tweezer-beams need to be generated. Some techniques to
create multiple optical traps have been reported.6-8) For instance, an ordinary wire
mesh was utilized to facilitate the creation of multiple optical traps,9) dynamic
40.00463 μm-1, and 0.00862 μm-1, respectively. The curvature of the planar curved
grating can be represented as κ=1/ρ, where ρ is the curvature radius of the planar
curved grating.
A three-dimensional planar curved grating was fabricated using multi-user
MEMS processes (MUMPs) provided by MEMSCAP Inc. This method has general
features involving standard surface micromachining steps.18) Briefly, the method
involves the deposition on a Si substrate of a silicon nitride electrical isolation layer,
three polysilicon layers (i.e., one ground layer and two structural layers), two
phosphosilicate glass (PSG) sacrificial layers, and a metal layer to provide electrical
connections and to ensure highly reflective surfaces. The chip was released using
hydrofluoric (HF) acid, rinsed in DI water, and then dried using a supercritical CO2
process. The three-dimensional planar curved grating was flipped upward after the
release process and then fixed vertically using microhinges and microspring latches.
3. Optical Setup
In a typical optical setup, a microscope objective lens focuses a Gaussian TEM00
laser beam into a tweezer while simultaneously imaging the trapped particles. In order
to maximize the trapping force, the incident beam should be expanded to fill the
objective’s back aperture. An optical tweezer can be moved across the microscope’s 
focal plane by adjusting the beam’s angle of incidence at the back aperture and can be 
displaced along the optical axis by changing the curvature of its wavefront. Similarly,
if diffraction patterns pass through the back aperture at different angles, they form
separate tweezers at different locations in the focal plane, facilitating the creation of
three-dimensional arrays of traps. Fig. 2 shows a schematic diagram of the optical
tweezer set-up used to create multiple traps using a planar curve grating. This design
was used to create strip patterns that trap a row of micro-particles. The optical
tweezers are powered by a 200 mW diode-pumped frequency-doubled Nd-YVO4 laser
operating at 532 nm. The laser beam passes through an invert beam expander
(56-30-2-8X-λ, SPECIAL OPTICS) to produce a paralel beam with a diameter of 300 
μm, then through a planar curved grating to produce diffraction patterns. The
diffraction patterns go through a 45o polarization beam splitter to the back aperture of
the microscope’s objective (PLN100XO, OLYMPUS).The multiple beams that result
from diffraction can be used to trap and manipulate polystyrene beads. A filter is used
to block the laser interference. Visible light from the illuminator is scattered by the
trapped particles and imaged to a charge coupled device (902B, WATEC) camera.
4. Experiment Results and Discussion
Fig. 3 shows an SEM image of the planar curved grating with a 4 μm pitch. In 
6equal to the optical trapping force. The dragging force of trapped polystyrene beads (3
μm in diameter)is plotted in Fig. 8 as a function of laser power, which ranges from 10
to 100 mW. A linear of the curve show that the power-normalized force is 0.065 pN/
mW
Figures 9 and 10 show photographs of the single-beam optical trap for
polystyrene beads using the developed method. The diffraction pattern was irradiated
perpendicularly to the plane of the photographs. Figure 9 shows an image sequence
that demonstrates the spot of zero order diffraction manipulate the polystyrene beads.
Figure 9(a) shows a trapped polystyrene bead in motion. Figures 9(b) and 9(c) show
two trapped polystyrene beads in motion (direction of motion indicated by the arrow).
Figure 10 shows a first order diffraction pattern that generates a strip tweezer-beam.
The first order strip patterns that result from diffraction were used to trap a row of
beads. We observed trapping at the location of first order diffraction. Provided that
there was sufficient trapping strength, the trapped beads could be arbitrarily
manipulated using a precision translation or rotation stage.
5. Conclusions
In this study, the diffraction angle of a surface micromachined planar curved
grating was systematically investigated. Experimental results show a relationship
between the vertical diffraction angle and the curvature of the planar curved grating.
As the curvature of planar curved grating increases, the vertical diffraction angle
linearly increases, resulting in a strip pattern of the planar curved grating. As the
curvature of the planar curved grating increases, the light intensity of zero order
diffraction linearly increases. The diffraction pattern of the curved grating is different
from the transmission grating. The general grating equation cannot be applied to the
curved grating. Therefore, a result of linear fitting for the relationship between the
vertical diffraction angle and the curvature of planar curved grating was proposed. A
single-beam optical tweezer integrated with a planar curved diffraction grating for
multiple optical traps was developed. One row of polystyrene beads was trapped
using the developed method. The proposed two-dimensional trap has potential
applications for alignment of components in microfluidic systems.
Acknowledgments
This study was supported by the National Science Council in Taiwan (NSC
98-2221-E-150-015). The access provided to fabrication equipment by the Common
Lab for Micro/Nano Science and Technology, Research and Services Headquarters of
National Formosa University is greatly appreciated.
8Figure 1. Schematic illustration of the planar curve grating and its diffraction patterns.
Figure 2. Schematic diagram of a single-beam optical tweezer set-up used to create
multiple traps using the developed planar curve grating.
Figure 3. SEM image of planar curved grating with 0.00135 μm-1 curvature.
Ф
Θ
Collimated
Beam
0th
Order
+1st
Order
+2nd
Order
-1st
Order
-2nd
Order
Θ: horizontal diffraction angle
Φ: vertical diffraction angle
o
κ=1/ρ
PBS
Illuminator
Filter
Lens
CCD
Planar Curved
Grating
100X
Objective
Sample
Invert Beam
ExpanderLaser
10
-3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3
Diffraction order
0.1
1
10
100
L
ig
ht
in
te
ns
ity
(%
)
0.00862m-1
0.00463m-1
• 0.00135m-1
Figure 9. Image sequence showing the dynamic manipulation of trapped polystyrene
beads (3 μm in diameter) using a spot of zero order diffraction. (a) One-trapped
polystyrene bead moving left. (b) Two-trapped polystyrene beads moving upward. (c)
Two-trapped polystyrene beads moving right and (d) motionless.
Figure 10. Photograph of a row of 3-μm-diameter beads trapped using first order
diffraction patterns.
0 20 40 60 80 100
Power (mW)
0
2
4
6
8
D
ra
gg
in
g
fo
rc
e
(p
N
)
(a)(b)
(c) (d)
20μm
121,2
1,2 1,2
10μm
Figure 7. Relationship between light
intensity and diffraction order of
planar curved grating.
Figure 8. Dragging force as a
function of laser power.
12
成效與貢獻
論文發表
1. Ju-Nan Kuo and Kuan-Yu Chen, “Multiple Optical Traps with a Single-Beam
Optical Tweezer Utilizing Surface Micromachined Planar Curved Grating,” 
Japanese Journal of Applied Physics, Accepted 2010. (SCI; Impact factor=1.138)
(physics, applied, 57/105) (Corresponding author)
2. Ju-Nan Kuo and Kuan-Yu Chen, “Integrated Single-Beam Optical Tweezer and
Planar Curved Grating for Multiple Optical Traps,”The 5th annual IEEE
International Conference on Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems,
Xiamen China, January 2010. (IEEE-NEMS 2010) (Corresponding author) (EI)
3. Wen-Wai Lee, Kuan-Ju Tseng, and Ju-Nan Kuo, “PDMS Microlens Fabricated for 
Compact Disk Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (CD-ELISA)
Applications,” The 5th annual IEEE International Conference on Nano/Micro
Engineered and Molecular Systems, Xiamen China, January 2010. (IEEE-NEMS
2010) (Corresponding author) (EI)
4. 陳冠宇、饒天霖和郭如男, “整合單光束光鉗與平面彎曲式光柵在微粒操縱之
研究”， 中國機械工程學會第二十六屆全國學術研討會，台灣台南，十一月，
2009。
5. 李文偉和郭如男, “微流體 CD 片上分歧微流道之流場分析”， 中國機械工程
學會第二十六屆全國學術研討會，台灣台南，十一月，2009。
專利
1. “具有可調式微凹面鏡的生物檢測裝置,”發明人: 郭如男, patent filed on
2009/12/16 with a patent filing No. 98143253。
8. Nanoscale Robotics, Assembly, and Automation
9. Carbon Nanotube based Devices and Systems
10. Micro/Nanoelectromechanical Systems (M/NEMS)
11. Molecular Sensors, Actuators, and Systems
12. Integration of MEMS/NEMS with Molecular Sensors/Actuators
此次研討會於 2010 年 1 月 20 日至 1 月 23 日於廈門溫德姆和平國際大飯店內會議廳舉
行，本人利用小三通搭機先飛往金門，抵達金門後再搭船直達廈門。論文發表日期為 1 月
22 日下午，場地在會場 Room 406 杜鵑廳，本場簡報共有七位報告者，本人為第一位報告
者，並於報告結束後與國外學者進行心得分享與問題討論。
二、與會心得
本人共有 2 篇論文接受為口頭發表(oral)論文，分別為 “Integrated Single-Beam Optical
Tweezer and Planar Curved Grating for Multiple Optical Traps”及 “PDMS Microlens
Fabricated for Compact Disk Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (CD-ELISA) Applications
”。本屆 IEEE NEMS 2010 由廈門大學及 IEEE Nanotechnology Council (NTC)主辦，主題為
先進設計與製造，吸引國際著名學者投稿，所有投稿論文均經過嚴謹的審稿程序，由主辦
單位之論文審查委員會擇定論文於會議中以口頭或海報發表。此次出國最大之受益為增加
國際研討會報告經驗及與外國人士交流之能力，同時也能提高台灣之國際學術地位及聲
望。會議期間並得知下屆 IEEE NEMS 2011 將在台灣舉辦。
本次研討會IEEE NEMS 2010期間並同時舉行1st International Contest of Applications in
Nano-Micro Technology (iCAN)於廈門溫德姆和平國際大飯店，故在研討會中場休息期間，
有時間能夠參與到另一場國際競賽，了解國內外目前在奈微米實作的能力。
三、建議
台灣在微奈米科技領域之研究亦有相當之基礎及成果，研究之水平與世界領先團隊相
距不遠。 本人此次在參訪後有非常大的收穫，除了有一些新的研究構想外，並與此領域之
學者建立良好之互動關係。
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告
日期：99 年 9 月 日
一、參加會議經過
此次研討會於2010年1月20日至1月23日於廈門溫德姆和平國際大飯店內會議聽舉辦，
本人於2010年1月19日用小三通搭機先飛往金門，抵達金門後再搭船直達廈門。發表日期為
2010年1月21日下午15點15分，場地在會場Room 406杜鵑廳，本場簡報共有六位報告者，本
人為第六位報告者，報告內容為PDMS Microlens Fabricated for Compact Disk Enzyme-Linked
Immunosorbent Assay (CD-ELISA) Applications，並於報告結束後與國外學者進行心得分享
與問題討論。
此次研討會之主題共12個分別為1. Micro and Nano Fabrication, 2. Micro/Nano Sensors
and Actuators, 3. Nanophotonics, 4. Nanomaterials, 5. Microfluidics and Nanofluidics, 6. Micro
and Nano Heat Transfer, 7. Nanobiology, Nano-bio-informatics, Nanomedicine, 8. Nanoscale
Robotics, Assembly, and Automation, 9. Carbon Nanotube based Devices and Systems, 10.
Micro/Nanoelectromechanical Systems (M/NEMS), 11. Molecular Sensors, Actuators, and
Systems, 12. Integration of MEMS/NEMS with Molecular Sensors/Actuators
二、與會心得
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-150-015
計畫名稱 新型光磁鉗系統在細胞及單生物分子操縱之研究
出國人員
姓名
李文偉
服務機構
及職稱
國立虎尾科技大學 自動化工程系
碩士班研究生
會議時間
99 年 1 月 20 日至
99 年 1 月 23 日
會議地點 大陸 廈門
會議名稱
(中文)第五屆 IEEE 奈米/微米工程及分子系統國際年會
(英文) The 5th Annual IEEE International Conference on Nano/Micro
Engineered and Molecular Systems
發表論文
題目
(中文)
(英文 ) PDMS Microlens Fabricated for Compact Disk Enzyme-Linked
Immunosorbent Assay (CD-ELISA) Applications
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年09月21日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
新型光磁鉗系統在細胞及單生物分子操縱之研究
郭如男
98 -2221-E -150 -015 - 其他–機械工程技術
具有可調式微凹面鏡的生物檢測裝置
國立虎尾科技大學 郭如男
本發明係有關一種具有可調式微凹面鏡的生物檢測裝置，其包括一細胞晶片、
一雷射裝置、一微凹面鏡部、一控制部及一檢測裝置；細胞晶片係供複數個帶
有螢光化合物之細胞，在其微流道內沿流動方向流動的透明結構；微流道之流
道寬度係大於細胞之細胞直徑；雷射裝置係朝微凹鏡面部發出雷射光束，其光
束直徑係大於流道寬度；控制部用以控制並調整微凹面鏡部之表面曲率，而將
雷射光束大部份之光反射一聚焦光束，並聚焦照射於微流道的光照位置，當細
胞通過光照位置被聚焦光束照射到，其螢光化合物因吸收聚焦光束之強大光能
而激發出強烈的螢光，即可提高該檢測裝置檢測之準確度。故，本案兼具可大
幅提高細胞檢測之準確度與可調整聚焦光束之焦距等優點及功效。
N/A
光學及精密器械製造業；機電工程業
微奈米科技、生物醫學產業，本發明可以應用於生醫光電之相關應用。
微機電製程技術具有將傳統大型生化分析或檢測設備微小化之能力，除縮小其尺寸外
，更可增加其分析速度與簡化人為操作程序，因此在分析化學與生物醫學方面之應用
深受矚目。利用微系統技術將分析儀器微型化並整合於一小面積之生醫晶片上，不但
可大幅降低檢測之成本、增加檢測分析之速度，另外也大幅增加偵測之靈敏度。因此
本發明不僅可以在生物檢測帶來龐大商機，並可以大量應用於生物醫學以增進人們生
活品質。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計畫研究內容與原計畫書規劃內容符合，且執行成果達到預期目標，研究成
果共計發表國外期刊論文 1篇，國內外研討會論文 4篇並有一件專利申請中。
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
