中、英文摘要
本計畫用微波電漿化學氣相沉積法在單晶鑽石基材上成長出排列規則的奈米鑽
石平板陣列。經由聚焦離子束與電子顯微鏡的觀察與分析，可能的原因是單晶鑽
石基材中的雙晶造成陣列的形成。另外，在研究偏壓強化孕核的過程中，使用圓
頂狀之電極可以大幅改進鑽石分布的均勻性程度至 1 x 1 cm2。從電子顯微鏡的觀
察與分析提出可能的機制是矽基材受到偏壓蝕刻形成圓錐狀，碳化矽以磊晶方式
於圓錐上出現，其形狀呈火山口狀，並提供後續磊晶鑽石孕核之位置。
In this study, we have deposited arrays of nanostructured diamond platelets on single
crystalline diamond substrates in regular arrangements using microwave plasma
chemical vapor deposition. Through focused ion beam and electron microscopy, it is
suggested that the formation of the arrays is resulted from the twins in the single
crystalline diamonds. We also used a dome-shaped electrode to improve the
uniformity of diamond formation in bias-enhanced nucleation. The deposited
diamond can be uniformly distribution over a 1 x 1 cm2 area on silicon substrate.
The mechanism is proposed as follows based on the electron microscopy observations.
Epitaxial SiC in volcano-like shape was formed on conic Si which is caused by bias
etching. The volcano SiC provided the nucleation sites for the following formation of
diamond nuclei which can be epitaxial crystallite in the initial stage.
關鍵詞
化學氣相沉積、鑽石、孕核、碳化矽
chemical vapor deposition, diamond, nucleation, SiC
報告內容
前言
奈米鑽石為目前化學氣相沉積(CVD)鑽石研究中頗受重視之領域，一般奈米鑽石
為薄膜形式，有許多獨特的性質。過去較少有人研究奈米尺寸結構之鑽石晶粒，
本計畫過去數年成長出平板狀之單晶鑽石，厚度約 20-30nm，形狀近似六角形，
但分布散亂，為了能控制成長。本計畫嘗試成長具有規則排列之陣列。另外，過
去在未處理之基材上成長鑽石與磊晶鑽石，通常用偏壓強化孕核法(BEN)來達到
目的，但是均勻性非常差，只有小區域具有較佳品質的鑽石，造成研究上非常困
難，為克服這一點，本計畫設計新的電極，加以改善，並探討初期孕核之機制。
圖三 (a) FIB 切割鑽石晶粒；(b) BF-TEM 影像；(c)DF-TEM 影像；(d) 高倍
DF-TEM 影像與(e)對應之繞射圖形，顯示雙晶特徵
奈米平板鑽石具有高比例之表面積(以單位基材面積計算)，因此可能用途有
感測器、場發射顯示器等。
II.偏壓法均勻分布之鑽石，
在偏壓輔助孕核(BEN)法所成長的鑽石有不均勻的分佈的情況，為了解決這
問題，經過設計加工過的新穎之電極(上鉬電極)，表面呈圓弧狀，微波電漿 CVD
均勻性大幅改善，如圖四 SEM 所示，分別從基材九個相距數個 mm 不同區域得
出之鑽石膜。孕核時間只需約 1分鐘即可完成，偏壓約-100V。
圖四 SEM 分別從基材九個相距數個
圖七 (a) HRTEM image of a cone without diamond
on top with the inset of the FFT pattern, showing
SiC in epitaxial with the Si cone. (b) Another case
with a bigger Si cone, showing formation of a grain
boundary between both SiC crystals.
圖八 (a) HRTEM image of diamond on SiC. (b)
Enlarged view of the region around the black
arrow in (a). (c) and (d) FFT patterns from the
white-framed regions on the left-hand and
right-hand sides in (b), respectively, showing the
orientation relationship between diamond and
SiC.
圖六 (a) Cross-sectional bright-field TEM
showing the cone-like structure on Si (100)
substrate, (b) and (c) High-magnification
view of the marked regions 1 and 2 in (a),
respectively, and (d) and (e) corresponding
selected area diffraction (SAD) patterns in Si
[011] zone axis shown in (b) and (c),
