degradation of the sample. The sample was first equilibrated at
the measuring temperature for 20 mins followed by 1 hr data
acquisition.
Result and Discussion
Figure 1(a) and (b) shows the temperature-dependent
SAXS profiles of neat HA. The profile indicates the formation
of a lamellar morphology consisting of alternating PS and P2VP
lamellae. The interlamellar distance at 25 oC calculated from
the Bragg’s equation (D = 2/qm with qm being the position of
the primary diffraction peak) was 14.0 nm. A sharp and
remarkable change in the scattering pattern was discernable at
180 oC due to the occurrence of ODT. The ODT can be
confirmed by ploting Im
-1 and D versus T-1 for the HA
copolymer.
In our previous article we had shown that TODT of a linear
PS-b-P2VP diblock copolymer, whose block molecular weights
and composition were equivalent to those of the present HA
copolymer, located at about 150 oC.15 Hence, the TODT of the
HA copolymer was about 30 oC higher than that of the linear
diblock.
Recently, Buzza et al.17 suggested that the large increase in TODT
arose from a combination of composition fluctuations and
different degrees of non-Gaussian stretching in the two systems
at or near TODT. The higher degree of chain stretching also led
to a larger interlamellar spacing in the hetero-arm star
copolymers compared to that in the linear counterpart.
However, in the present study we found that although the TODT
of HA was greater than that of LA, the interlamellar distance of
these two systems was close.
Grayer et al.20 studied PS6P2VP6 hetero-arm copolymer
and found that the interlamellar distance followed Nscaling
law with > 2/3. The similar interdomain distance between
HA and LA studied here might be due to the relatively low
molecular weight of the system (N ~ 70-80); because the ratio
DHA/DLA ~ N
- 2/3 decreases with decreasing N.
Figure 2(a) and (b) display the temperature-dependent
SAXS profiles of HA(DBSA) complex. At 240 oC the
higher-order scattering peaks associated with the long-range
order of the copolymer domains became visible. The positions
of the lattice peaks here closely followed the ratio of 1:31/2:41/2,
indicating that the complex contained hexagonally packed PS
cylinders in the P2VP(DBSA) matrix.
The shoulder marked by “i = 1” was atributed to the 
first-order form factor maximum (qm
i=1). The average radius of
the PS cylinders deduced from the form factor peak position via
R = 4.98/qm
i=1 was 7.2 nm. As the temperature was further
increased to 280 oC, the intensity of the primary scattering peak
decreased appreciably. Since the form factor peak still
persisted at 280 oC, the large drop in intensity was not associated
with the ODT that transformed the system into a homogenous
melt. The intensity drop may alternatively be attributed to the
occurrence of a thermal fluctuation-driven lattice disordering of
the PS domains. In other words, PS cylinders exhibited
short-range liquid-like order at 280 oC. The micelle-free
homogenous state was not accessible for the HA(DBSA)
complex within the experimental temperature range, showing
that its TODT was higher than 290
oC. Hence, the TODT of the
HA copolymer was raised by more than 100 oC upon
complexation with DBSA. Similar increase of TODT was also
found for LA(DBSA) complex in our previous study.15
The high-q scattering peak located at 2.07 nm-1 was
attributed to the primary diffraction maximum from the
smaller-scale lamellar structure (with an interlamellar distance
of 3.0 nm) organized by the P2VP(DBSA) comb blocks.15
Hence, the HA(DBSA) comb-coil complex self-organized into a
cylinder-within-lamellae morphology. The morphology of HA
copolymer before and after complexation with DBSA is
schematically illustrated in Figure 3(a) and (b). The
P2VP(DBSA) lamellar peak remained intense almost up to 260
oC. The intensity of this peak decreased when the sample was
heated to 280 oC, where the scattering peak superposed on a
broad halo. This indicated disordering of some lamellar
domains due to dissociation of hydrogen-bonded DBSA from
the P2VP blocks.15 However, a significant portion of the
lamellar domains retained at the highest accessible temperature
(i.e. 290oC) in the present study.
In the case of LA(DBSA) complex the ODT of the
P2VP(DBSA) lamellar domains occurred near 220 oC;15
however, the stability of the lamellar mesophase increased
