行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
以人體動作分析與生理負荷分析對橢圓滑步機作人因分析(I) 
Human factor engineering analysis of elliptical trainer by human motion analysis 
and physical load analysis(I) 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－040－005－ 
執行期限： 96年8月1日至 97年12月31日 
主持人：羅世忠   助理教授     中山醫學大學職能治療學系 
計畫參與人員：陳瓊玲 副教授    中山醫學大學職能治療學系 
游家源  助理教授  義守大學 物理治療學系 
孫佑榮  研究生    朝陽科技大學 工業工程與管理學系 
 
 
摘要 
近年國內運動風氣的興盛， 很多人選擇使用橢圓滑步機作為強健身體與維持基本體能
的訓練工具，長時間使用橢圓滑步機後， 為有效了解橢圓滑步機對人體肌肉骨骼與生理負
荷的影響，建立生物力學與生理負荷評估之人因工程分析是有其必要。本研究目的是以人
體動作分析系統，來瞭解兩部不同設計等級的滑步機運動的舒適性差異。並以人體質量中
心(center of mass, COM) 、肌電訊號（EMG）與關節角度變化作為橢圓滑步機相關評估之
參數。本研究受測者為十位健康無神經肌肉骨骼傷痛的學生，兩種不同等級之橢圓滑步機，
針對每種型號做三種不同滑動負荷實驗（70W、220W 與 370W）。實驗結果發現在兩台不同的
橢圓滑步機上，人體質量中心在垂直高度（238%、211%與 199%）與前後距離（輕 156%、154%
與 131%）有顯著性差異，而在同一橢圓滑步機之不同負荷比較上，只有在輕負荷與重負荷
發現人體質量中心的左右移動軌跡（machine A：147%、machine B：134%）有顯著性增加。
肌電訊號（EMG）峰值會隨者負荷而增加（股直肌、股二頭肌與脛前肌），以及股直肌與腓
腸肌有肌電訊號提前發生的現象，除此之外，關節角度變化上，負荷間均沒有顯著影響（髖
關節、膝關節與踝關節）。在下肢各關節角度變化實驗結果發現在髖關節最大角度發生在週
期 40%；膝關節最大角度發生在週期 25%，此為踏板軌跡為最上方。在不同機型，負荷群體
間分析比較下，關節角度變化沒有明顯的統計差異。 
漸由原本機構設計，慢慢增加人因工程方面考量，所以除了機構設計外，測試上加入人體
運動分析，其分析項目有動作分析與生理肌電訊號評估，追求運動器材設計達到舒適的健
身[1-6]。 
為能瞭解橢圓滑步機在設計上對人體運動時的相關性，選擇兩台不同類型市售橢圓滑步
機，包括大賣場販售低階機型與俱樂部使用高階機型，使用動作分析系統，以建立人體在
橢圓滑步機運動分析與評估模式。本研究將結合三維動作分析系統與肌電訊號量測系統作
為評估兩台不同類型市售橢圓滑步機，以瞭解在輕、中與重負荷下對人體肌肉骨骼系統的
影響，並期待從研究中找出設計符合人體舒適度之橢圓滑步機之重要參數：（一）人體運動
學方面：主要探討人體質量中心(COM)的變化；（二）肌肉骨骼系統則以肌電訊號（EMG）的
肌肉活動起點（onset）、肌肉活動終點（offset）、肌肉活動期間（duration）、肌肉出力
大小（%MVC）及是否有肌肉拮抗現象等方面進行研究。 
 
二、研究方法 
受試者為十位均無神經肌肉骨骼傷害之年輕受測者，皆為在學大學生與研究生。使用動作
分析系統 Vicon460 (Vicon Motion System Corp., Oxford,  UK)、肌電訊號收集器 MP150 
(Biopac Inc)及兩部橢圓運動機進行相關實驗。包括六台 CCD 攝影機，資料收集頻率 120Hz，
收集人體在空間中的運動；反光球黏貼的位置以 Vcion 內建的 PolygonRT 模型，EMG 收集
頻率為 1000HZ，肌電訊號採用皮膚表面收集方式，使用兩極貼片(3.5cm × 5cm)，收集受
測者右腳之股直肌( rectus femoris RF)、股二頭肌(biceps femoris)、脛前肌(tibialis 
anterior)與腓腸肌(gastrocnemius)四條肌。 
兩種不同橢圓滑步機型，均為目前市面上均可購置的運動器材商品，本實驗中設定的兩機
型分別為 mahcine A（類似力山運動器材橢圓滑步機 600E）與 machine B（類似力山運動
器材橢圓滑步機 Q35）兩種。 
 
三、 結果與討論 
machine A 在圖形上要比 machine B 扁平（圖一上），在橫切面的圖形中，兩台機型的軌跡
變化相似，呈 U 形狀，且隨者負荷的增加，U 型角度會有向外擴張的趨勢（圖一中），最後
在矢狀面的平面圖，兩台機型所呈現的軌跡變化相似橢圓形狀，其中以 machine B 的橢圓
 
圖二 股直肌、股二頭肌、脛前肌與腓腸肌在不同機型與負荷之峰值 
 
 
四、結論與建議 
本研究結果中兩種機型的人體質量中心軌跡，machine A 在三種負荷情況下，其水平與垂
直位移比為 8:3，所以主要還是依靠左右的擺動來完成動作，另一方面，machine B 的水平
與垂直位移接近 4：3比例，從本研究觀察人體質量中心在冠狀面與矢狀面運動軌跡，
machine B 比 machine A 活動範圍大，比較能產生動作協調空間，或許在速度變化上，人
體質量中心在比較大的位移量之下，可能影響到下肢協調的整體動作，因此可以說人體質
量中心的變化似乎可以作為評估橢圓滑步機設計的重要參數。 
在 EMG 研究結果發現，在相同負荷，不同機型對四條肌肉的活動影響（肌肉峰值、活動起
點、終點與期間）作統計分析，大部分均無明顯差異，顯然肌電訊號以線性峰波的處理方
式無法對本實驗兩台滑步機作評估比較，但可作為橢圓滑步機週期軌跡下，肌肉活動功能
之評估 
 
參考文獻 
1. 柯博仁, 六連桿橢圓運動機之運動合成與人機整合動力學分析 in 中興大學機械工
程學系所. 2006. 
2. 陳瑩德, 二合一橢圓機之研發 in 國立臺北科技大學製造科技研究所. 2005. 
 NSC 96-2221-E-040-005 計畫編號 
以人體動作分析與生理負荷分析對橢圓滑步機作人因分析(I) 計畫名稱 
出國人員姓名服
務機關及職稱 羅世忠中山醫學大學職能治療學系助理教授 
July 14~17, 2008； Las Vegas, USA 會議時間地點  
2nd International Conference on Applied Human Factors  會議名稱  
Human factors analysis for operators using stairclimbing device 發表論文題目  
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
一、參加會議經過 
台灣時間 7月 13 日晚上由桃園國際機場飛往 LA，再由 LA 轉機至 Las Vegas，於
美國時間 7 月 14 日清晨下榻 Flamingo 旅館，一早就到 Caesars Palace 會場報
到，領取相關資料，下午參加教育訓練課程，晚上則有主辦單位舉辦的晚宴，遇
到許多國內外的人因工程先進，互相寒暄交換名片，隔日便展開一連串的論文報
告。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次研討會主要分為 七大主題包括生理人因（Physical Ergonomics）, 認
知人因(Cognitive Ergonomics), 社會與組織人因 Social & Organizational 
Ergonomics,  人因與可用性評估（Ergonomics & Usability Evaluation）, 保
健與特別族群（Healthcare & Special Populations）, 安全（Safety）, 工業
人因（Ergonomics in Manufacturing），包含領域廣泛，也讓參與者獲益良多，
另外主辦單位也舉辦許多的訓練課程包括 Multimodal and Adaptive Display 
Design 與 Conducting cognitive work analysis: supporting novices and 
experts with a software tool 等，讓較為生疏且有意參與的學者能迅速進入
相關領域研究。 
Human Factors Analysis for Operators 
Using Stairclimbing Device 
 
 
Lou, Shu-Zon 
School of Occupational Therapy/Chung Shan Medical 
University/No.110,Sec.1,Jianguo N.Rd.,Taichung City 
402/Taiwan/R.O.C 
E-mail:  szlou2007@gmail.com 
 
 Lee, Cheng-Lung 
Industrial Engineering and Management/Chaoyang University 
of Technology/ Tawian/R.O.C 
E-mail:  cllee@mail.cyut.edu.tw 
 
 Chen, Yu-Chi 
Institute of biomedical engineering/National Cheng Kung 
University/Taiwan/R.O.C 
E-mail: cs3401@gmail.com 
 Chen, Chiung Lin 
School of Occupational Therapy/Chung Shan Medical 
University/No.110,Sec.1,Jianguo N.Rd.,Taichung City
402/Taiwan/R.O.C 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
To transport the elder or handicapped people climb up upstairs is difficult without the 
elevator or stairclimbing device. In Taiwan, local manufactory wants to develop the 
stairclimbing device to help the uneasily moved people but the operator information is 
little. To fit the gap, the purpose of this study was to understand the effect of 
stairclimbing device on the musculoskeletal system of the operator. Twenty healthy 
young people without any neuromuscular disorders were recruited. They were 
22.8±4.1 in age, 165±7.5 in body height and 60±14 in body weight. A stairclimbing 
device, Scalamobil, five level wood stairs and three kind of height of stairclimbing 
device including shoulder height, shoulder height plus 10 cm and shoulder height 
minus 10 cm were set up in the experiment. The sequence of three sets of height was 
selected randomly. RULA, OWAS and motion analysis system (Vicon) with two force 
plate (Kistler) were used for human factors analysis. Data was analyzed statistically by 
repeated one-way ANOVA with p<0.05 as statistical significance. 
In result of RULA and OWAS, the risk levels of working posture were on the 
acceptable. In the result of motion analysis, the flexion of trunk was significantly 
different among three heights of stairclimbing device. The max range of motion and 
loading were occurred on the knee joint, especially for the leading leg during upstairs 
and following leg during downstairs but the joint loading was not significantly different 
among heights of stairclimbing device. The joint loading was significantly different 
between leading and following leg during ascending and descending.  
inverse dynamic procedure with the Newton-Euler equations(Haug, 1989; Winter, 
1990). 
 
 
Figure 1 experiment setup for stairclimbing device 
Data analysis 
In checklist data, the mean score of climbing cycle was done between three heights of 
stairclimbing device during upstairs and downstairs.  The repeated one-way ANOVA 
with p<0.05 as statistical significance was used for the effect of heights of 
stairclimbing device.  
In motion analysis data, the kinematic data of trunk and knee joint, and the kinetic 
data of knee joint among three kind of height of stairclimbing device was analyzed 
statistically by repeated one-way ANOVA with p<0.05 as statistical significance. The 
independent variables are three kind of height of stairclimbing device and dependent 
variables are joint angle, resultant force and resultant moment in data analysis. The 
post-hoc analysis for the differences between heights of stairclimbing device was done 
with the help of the Bonferroni method. An analysis for differences between leading 
and following legs was also made.  
 
RESULTS 
 
Checklist data 
In the result of OWAS, even though the score of high height of stairclimbing device 
was smaller in mean, there was not significant difference between three heights during 
05
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
*:p<0.05
p
ea
k 
tr
u
n
k 
an
g
le
(d
eg
re
e)
flex R/L rot
* *
shoulder height high low
ascending
R/L flex
descending
flex R/L felx R/L rot
 
Figure 3 Mean and standard deviation of the peak trunk angle of stair ascending and 
descending with three height of stairclimbing device (* value significantly greater, 
p<0.05, than that of shoulder height group.) 
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
descendingascending
*
p
ea
k 
kn
ee
 a
n
g
le
(d
eg
re
e)
rotaddflex
trail leg
lowhighshoulder height
lead-leg 
*
*:p<0.05
flex add rot flex add rot flex add rot
trail leglead-leg 
 
Figure 4 Mean and standard deviation of peak knee joint angle of stair ascending and 
descending with three height of stairclimbing device.  (* value significantly greater, 
p<0.05, than that of shoulder height group.) 
  
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
descendingascending
trail legtrail leg lead leg
p
ea
k 
kn
ee
 j
o
in
t 
m
o
m
en
t(
N
m
/(
kg
*
LL
))
In rotflexabd
lead leg
lowhighshoulder height
*
*
*
*: p<0.05
In rotflexabd In rotflexabd In rotflexabd
 
Figure 6 Mean and standard deviation of peak knee joint moment of stair ascending 
and descending with three height of stairclimbing device. (* value significantly greater, 
p<0.05, than that of shoulder height group.) 
 
DISCUSSIONS 
 
The manipulation of stairclimbing device is not difficult but practice is needed for 
accustomed the handling from the present experiment. The carrying loads was 
supported by power of stairclimbing device. The only thing the operators need to do is 
to balance the device with the rear wheel.  Therefore, the posture analysis of OWAS 
and RULA was not significantly different between heights of stairclimbing device. 
The significant change of trunk flexion can be expected or understood with the three 
heights of stairclimbing device. The high device caused the small trunk flexion. The 
loading on lower extremity seemed to be decreased with small flexion but the results 
did not show the significant difference. The possibility is the extra loads transfer from 
hands to device with lower height of device. Therefore, the loads on lower extremity 
were not different significantly between three heights. In the analysis with leading and 
trailing leg, the kinemaitcs and kinetics of knee joint was significantly different 
between two legs during stair ascent and descent. This is due to climbing with both 
feet on each step during ascending and descending. 
 
CONCLUSION 
From the analysis of RULA and OWAS, the risk levels of working posture were on the 
acceptable. From human motion analysis, the flexion of trunk was significantly 
different among three heights of stairclimbing device. The max range of motion and 
loading were occurred on the knee joint, especially for the leading leg during stair 
