2越快，因此，通道估測(Channel Estimation)技
術更是無線通訊系統中極重要的關鍵技術。為
對抗符際干擾，在接收機採用等化器(Equalizer)
消除 ISI 是有其必要的，傳統上，由於通道效
應可視為一頻寬有限的濾波器效應，因此等化
器即為一反向的濾波器。現代數位傳輸系統還
需要達到可靠的傳輸品質，為了達成此一要
求，一般無線通訊傳輸系統均會同時使用通道
估測、等化器與錯誤更正碼(Error Correction
Codes)技術。傳統上的作法為將通道估測、等
化器與錯誤更正碼視為不相干的裝置，各自獨
力運作，接收機先估測出通道響應，並且使用
等化器將收到的訊號所遭受到的符際干擾予
以等化，部分殘留的錯誤則留待之後的通道解
碼器再執行更正的動作，此為一種次佳的作
法。然而，自從渦輪碼(Turbo Codes)的發現
[1]，渦輪訊號處理已經被廣泛應用於通訊訊號
處理相關議題[2]-[4]，包含高階的編碼調變技
術(如時空碼)、結合訊號源與通道編解碼技
術、結合通道估測/通道等化/通道解碼技術、
多用戶與展頻系統訊號檢測等，直在到今日，
這些重要議題的相關研究仍持續蓬勃發展當
中。
三、研究步驟
藉由過去的文獻探討，我們瞭解到 ISI 通
道效應與等化器是將原本的傳送訊號在其所
處的訊號空間當中做一轉換，因此，在接收端
進行等化器的設計時可以採用分類的觀念來
進行。在文獻[5]-[6]中對於輻射基底函數等化
器已經證實和貝式等化器具有等效的結構，但
對於貝式等化器而言，由於其計算複雜度相當
高，因此不利於進行電路實現，因此在文獻當
中提出採用輻射基底函數等化器來實現貝式
等化器，同時輻射基底函數等化器可以經由
Jacobian 演算法簡化計算複雜度，且效能幾乎
完全等效。
再不損及渦輪等化的效能的前提之下，此
計畫主要的目的也是想將渦輪等化的計算複
雜度進一步的降低，在接收端所收到的訊號表
示如下：
0
,
L
k n k n k k k
n
r h s e r e k

       (1)
其中nh , n=0, 1,…, L 表示通道脈衝響應
(Channel Impulse Response, CIR)，ks 為通道
輸入序列，kr為不考慮白高斯雜訊之下的通
道輸出，同時ke 為平均值為零，同時變異數
2
e的白高斯雜訊序列 (AWGN)。這種決策迴
授等化器可以視為一分類問題探討。圖二為決
策迴授等化器架構，其中m, n, 與 分別表示
等化器的前饋階數、迴授階數、決策延遲。此
種符元決策等化器之最佳解可以使用貝式決
策理論求得。同時，由於輻射基底函數網路與
最佳的貝式等化器的解具備等效的架構，因此
使用貝式理論所推導的最佳解可以使用輻射
基底網路予以實現。
當考慮通道長度為L + 1時，可以發現影響
第 k 個 符 元 決 策 的 傳 送 訊 號 為
 1 1... Tk k k k m Ls s s  s 。 若系統採用M-ary數
位調變，則 ks 將會有 s
L mn M  種可能的組合，
同時相對於每一種組合再不考慮白高斯雜訊
干擾的情況之下，在接收端所觀察到的訊號為
 1 1... Tk k k k mr r r  r   ，我們可以將每一種 kr是
為一理想的通道輸出狀態 kv , k =1,…, sn 。除
此之外，通道輸入序列 ks 也以通道輸入狀態來
表示 ,1 ,2 ,( )...
T
j j j j L mu u u   u , j = 1,…, sn ，如
此一來，整個符際干擾通道與等化器前饋濾波
器即是對於通道輸入狀態 ju 進行一線性轉換
成為 kv 。
整個理想的通道輸出狀態集合 ,mV 可以根
據決策符元 ks  所被傳送的M-ary訊號 i ,
i=1,…, M, 分割成M個子集合 ,
i
mV , i=1,…, M
 ,i ij m k k iV s   v r  , (2)
其中 s1 , 1
ii M j n   , 同時 s s /in n M 表示
屬於傳送第i種符元時所接收到的理想通道輸
出的子集合 ,
i
mV 當中的第j個理想的通道輸出狀
態。為了達到最小的符元錯誤率，依據貝式決
策理論可以進行下列的決策：
  * *Bay Bayˆ , if max ik i k kis     r r , (3)
其中1 i M  , *i為此時具有最大直輸出的貝
式決策函數 *Bay k r 所對應的傳送符元。貝式
4相較於原始的計算方式，在式(9)中，我們簡化
了一個連加的數列，由於是連加的方式，所以
只要有一個最大值出現，其他的數列值的影響
相對降低，故在簡化計算的考量之下，只取最
大值，此種方法可省下加法器，而且因為是連
加，變動的範圍沒 Fuzzy 1來的大，所以效能
較好，但是由於只有省加法器，故計算複雜度
沒有省略的像 Fuzzy 1那麼多。
第三種決策函數為使用最最小推論同時
配合最大化解模糊，其決策函數可以表示為
Fuzzy 3:
   
s 1 ,
max 1 0 ,
FUZZY 1 ,
, 0 ,
max min
,
max min
in m i
p pi
k m i
i p p
P 





 


r  
 
(10)
在式(10)中，我們不但簡化了連加數列，而且
也簡化了連乘數列，故式(10)為所有簡化決策
函數中，簡化計算複雜度最多的。
四、研究成果
我們使用電腦模擬的方式評估所提議的
fuzzy filter-assisted DEF TEQ與RBF-based DFE
TEQ之效能表現。模擬環境依據future radio
wideband multiple access system (FRAMES)
multiple access (FMA) 1 non-spread speech burst
之實體層規格撰寫。針對Jacobian RBF DFE
TEQ與Fuzzy 3的決策函數，在通道脈衝響應長
度(L + 1)分別為3、4的情況下，將硬體電路實
現較為關心的加法/減法與乘法/除法/指數函數
計算執行次數繪製於圖三、四，可以清楚的發
現，我們所提議的Fuzzy-Filter-Assisted TEQ的
計算複雜度並不會隨著等化器前餽階數的增
加而增加，同時在乘法與除法的執行次數上也
有長足的改善。
三種Fuzzy-Filter-Assisted TEQ技術之位元
錯誤率之效能表現與RBF-Assisted TEQ技術之
比較分別繪製於圖六到圖八。這三種
Fuzzy-Filter-Assisted TEQ技術的位元錯誤率表
現均會隨著遞迴次數的增加而下降，同時其效
能也相當接近於最佳的RBF-Assisted DFE
TEQ。我們發現Fuzzy 2 TEQ所提供的效能表現
與RBF DFE TEQ相當，然而其運算複雜度卻能
大幅下降。
五、參考文獻
[1] C. Berrou, P. Adde, E. Angui, and S. Faudeil,
“Near Shannon limit error-correcting coding
and decoding: turbo-codes,”in Proc. IEEE
Int. Conf. Communications, Geneva, Swit-
zerland, May 1993, pp. 1064-1070.
[2] C. Laot, A. Glavieux, and J. Labat, “Turbo 
equalization: adaptive equalization and
channel decoding jointly optimized,” IEEE J.
Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 19, pp. 1744–1752,
Sep. 2001.
[3] M. Tuchler, R. Koetter, and A. Singer,
“Turbo-equalization: principles and new re-
sults,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 50, no. 5,
pp. 754–767, May 2002.
[4] M. Tuchler, A. Singer, and R. Koetter,
“Minimum mean squared eror equalization 
using a priori information,” IEEE Trans.
Signal Process., vol. 50, no. 3, pp. 673–683,
Mar. 2002.D. C. Laney, G. M. Maggio, F.
Lehmann, and L. Larson, “Multiple access
for uwb impulse radio with pseudochaotic
time hopping,”IEEE J. on Select. Areas in
Commun., pp. 1692-1700, vol. 20, no. 9, Dec.
2002.
[5] S. Chen, B. Mulgrew, and P. M. Grant, “A
clustering technique for digital communica-
tions channel estimation using radial basis
function networks,” IEEE Trans. Neural
Networks, vol. 4, no. 4, July 1993.
[6] S. Chen, B. Mulgrew, and S. McLaughlin,
“Adaptive Bayesian equalizer with decision
feedback,”IEEE Trans. Signal Processing,
vol. 41, no. 9, pp. 2918-2927, Sep. 1993.
[7] M. S. Yee, B. L. Yeap, and L. Hanzo,
“Radial basis function-assisted turbo equali-
zation,”IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 51, no.
4, pp. 664-675, Apr. 2003.
nx
nc ks,k lc
ke
kr
kr
nˆx




 ,Ea k lL c
 Da nL c  ,Ep k lL c ,Ei k lL c
 De nL c Dp nL c
圖一、渦輪等化器系統架構圖
6圖六、Performance of the Fuzzy-1 DFE TEQ and the Ja-
cobian RBF DFE TEQ over the three-path Rayleigh fading
channel. The Fuzzy-1 DFE TEQ and the Jacobian RBF
DFE both have a feedforward order of 3m , a feedback
order of 2n L  , and a decision delay of 2 sym-
bols.
Eb/N0 (dB)
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
B
E
R
1e-5
1e-4
1e-3
1e-2
1e-1
1e+0
RBF DFE TEQ (1 iteration)
RBF DFE TEQ (2 iterations)
RBF DFE TEQ (3 iterations)
Fuzzy-2 DFE TEQ (1 iteration)
Fuzzy-2 DFE TEQ (2 iterations)
Fuzzy-2 DFE TEQ (3 iterations)
圖七、Performance of the Fuzzy-2 DFE TEQ and the Ja-
cobian RBF DFE TEQ over the three-path Rayleigh fading
channel. The Fuzzy-2 DFE TEQ and the Jacobian RBF
DFE both have a feedforward order of 3m , a feedback
order of 2n L  , and a decision delay of 2 sym-
bols.
Eb/N0 (dB)
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
B
E
R
1e-6
1e-5
1e-4
1e-3
1e-2
1e-1
1e+0
RBF DFE TEQ (1 iteration)
RBF DFE TEQ (2 iterations)
RBF DFE TEQ (3 iterations)
Fuzzy-3 DFE TEQ (1 iteration)
Fuzzy-3 DFE TEQ (2 iterations)
Fuzzy-3 DFE TEQ (3 iterations)
圖八、Performance of the Fuzzy-3 DFE TEQ and the Ja-
cobian RBF DFE TEQ over the three-path Rayleigh fading
channel. The Fuzzy-3 DFE TEQ and the Jacobian RBF
DFE both have a feedforward order of 3m , a feedback
order of 2n L  , and a decision delay of 2 sym-
bols.
Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Conference on TuesA04
Networking, Sensing and Control, London, UK, 15-17 April 2007
FPCM-Assisted Blind Channel Equalization ofM-QAM Signals for
Time-Varying Channels
Jenn-Kaie Lain, Member IEEE, and Chia-Tai Huang
Department of Electronic Engineering
National Yunlin University of Science and Technology
Douliu, Yunlin, Taiwan, R.O.C
Tel: +886-5-5342601 ext. 4335
E-mail: 1ai:jkAyuntech.eduAw
Abstract-Fuzzy c-means equalization is a blind channel channel impulse response (CIR). Symbol decision
equalization that has been shown to be successful in mitigating equalizations are more commonly seen in and are typically
the effects of inter-symbol interference introduced by partial based on adaptive linear filter design. The optimal solution
response modems and by dispersive channels. In this paper, we for a symbol equalizer can be formed from the Bayes
propose a fuzzy possibilistic c-means-assisted blind channel ..
equalization scheme that is superior to the fuzzy cprobabilty theory [3]. The problem of equalization can be
c-means-assisted blind channel equalization by the capability Of considered as a classification problem where the equalizer
the FPCM to recognize and reject the inference of the seriously classifies the received signal vector into one of the signal
noisy data samples in the context of 4 quadrature amplitude constellations [4]. From this perspective, equalization can be
modulation. Furthermore, an accumulative cluster centers treated as a nonlinear classification problem, and for this
scheme is proposed to properly increase the amount of the data reason the performance of the linear equalizers is far fominvolved into the clustering process. Simulation results show
that the fuzzy possibilistic c-means blind channel equalization optimal. To achieve precise classificatlon, the channel
with accumulative cluster centers outperforms the fuzzy condition should be aware in the receiver. Usually, adaptation
possibilistic c-means blind channel equalization without to channel conditions is obtained by inserting a known
accumulative cluster centers under the time-varying channel. sequence within the data set, and then, the deconvolution of
this sequence should allow the receiver to extract enough
Index Terms-blind channel equalization, fuzzy c-mans knowledge about the channel conditions to tune the filter(FCM) algorithm, fuzzy possibilistic c-means (FPCM) algorithm, weights and invert the channel transfer function. However,
inter- symbol interference (151) the channel estimation can be a difficult process under certain
I. INTRODUCTION circumstances.
Blind equalization algorithms, on the contrary, extract their
The transmission rate of information bit streams over a radio knowledge directly from the channel output without using
communication link is mainly limited by inter-symbol any training input data. Blind recovery of ISI corrupted
interference (ISI). ISI coming from these delayed replicas of signals is a topic that has received much attention since the
the signal, is usually represented as being produced by a first work by Sato [5] because of its impact in practically all
channel description sketching the channel as FIR filter the communication applications. The principle expectation in
length of which is determined by the memory characteristics applying blind algorithms is to avoid complex channel
of the channel itself [1]-[2]. In today's digital radio links, the estimation procedures and to optimize the bandwidth usage
need to transmit at higher and higher data rates is pushing the [6].
usage of multilevel modulation schemes such as M-ary QAM Using intelligent computation techniques seems to be a
with coherent demodulation. High speed M-ary QAM feasible approach to achieve blind channel equalization.
systems greatly suffer from channel variations and are Blind channel equalization based on fuzzy c-means (FCM)
typically sensitive to channel conditions due to the high algorithm has been proposed by Costamagna et al. [7]. The
density of their symbol space. It is consequently critical to proposed equalization assisted with a FCM clustering
implement at the received inverse filtering techniques to algorithm performs the blind recovery of a radio channel
counteract channel effects. affected by ISI interference due to multipath propagation. The
Several types of equalization techniques have been studied data set is decomposed into a number of disjoint clusters the
through the years, including sequence estimation and symbol number ofwhich may or may not be known a priori. This is in
decision equalization [1]. The optimal solution for the principle very simple and can be realized by means of many
sequence estimation equalizer is maximum-likelihood different algorithms. This has a clear advantage in many
sequence estimation (MLSE) which demands high applications including telecommunications since explicit
computational complexity and requires knowledge of the channel estimation is not required, and the only assumption is
1
-4244-1076-2/07/$25.00 ©2007 IEEE 787
can be decomposed in the observation space as the received rk = aosk + alsk-I + a3sk-2 (10.)
symbol rk . When the AWGN is ignored, there is one-to-one where ao = 0.3482 , a, = 0.8704 and a2= 0.3482 In the
mapping between the transmitted symbol Sk and the noisy performance evaluation ofthe proposed FPCM-assisted blind
received symbol rk . When we observe a block of successive equalizer, we simulate not only the case that the CIR in (10) is
S received symbols, these received symbols are distributed as fixed but also the case when the channel is time-varying, i.e.,
a number of clusters that is the same as the transmitted signal when a, in (10) are time-varying coefficients, each
constellation and each cluster center is a mapping to the simulated, as in [17]-[18], by using a second-order Markov
original modulation symbol sk in its signal constellation. By model in which a white Gaussian noise source with standarddeviation (std), drives a second-order Butterworth low-pass
applying the above-mentioned FPCM clustering algorithm, a filter (LPF) with cutoff frequency 0.1.
block of successive S received symbols are partitioned intoM
clusters according to the membership matrix U, and the B. Comparison ofconvergence speed
original transmitted symbol can be estimated as a weighting Fig. 2 shows the convergence characteristics of the
sum of the final cluster centers [7], FCM-assisted and FPCM-assisted blind channel equalization
M with 1000 bits per packet when the SNR is 25 dB. Both
ii = AkVk. (9.) channel equalizers are said to converge when the slope of thek=1 convergence curve decreases with an increase in the number
is of iterations. Fig. 2 also shows that both the FCM-assistedThe concern of this pro inc pationa omexity and FPCK-assisted blind channel equalization started
related to the number of iterations performed in the cne n atr2 trtos nohrwrs h
alternating optimization of the FPCM algorithm. It was converging after 25 iterations. In other words, theshownlteating omptim ationalofmthexity thm Ithwan improvement in BER was slow and insignificant after 25shown that the computational complexity is much lower than iterations for both the FCM-assisted and FPCM-assisted blind
the of conventional MLSE receivers [7], [12]. channel equalization.
B. The Accumulative Cluster Centers Scheme C. Performance ofthe FPCM-Assisted Channel Equalizer
It is obviously that the performance of the clustering The performance evaluation of the proposed
algorithms will be greatly improved when the amount of the FPCM-assisted blind channel equalization has been carried
statistical data is increased. From the viewpoint of improving out by computer simulation. First of all, the comparison ofthe
the performance ofthe clustering algorithms, the block size of bit error rate (BER) performance versus SNR for both
data adopted in the clustering process should be the more the FCM-assisted and FPCM-assisted blind channel equalization
better. However, the number of bits in each packet will be under the time-invariant channel described in (10) is shown in
limited due to the channel in radio communications is Fig. 3. It shows that the performance ofboth clustering-based
time-varying and the error correction capacity of the forward blind channel equalizers strongly related to the amount of the
error correction (FEC) codes adopted in each packet is fixed. data samples involved in the clustering process. Both of
Thus, the block size of each packet is bounded. To increase FCM-assisted and FPCM-assisted blind channel equalization
the amount of data involved in the clustering process, the with 1000 bits in each packet achieve better BER
receiver can possibly memorize the history of the cluster performance than that with fewer bits in each packet.
centers in each packet. When the clustering process in each Furthermore, the performance of the proposed
packet is executing ,we can not only compute the cluster FPCM-assisted blind channel equalization outperforms the
packetisexecuting, we can not only compute the clus FCM-assisted blind channel equalization. This achievement
centers based on the current packet but also take the cluster c a o FiS mamly contributed by the capability of the FPCM to
centers in the previous packets into consideration. To yyiydyrecognize and reject the inference of the seriously noisy datapossibly cope with the time-varying effect of the channel, a samples.
forgetting factor should be used to reduce the significance of
the cluster centers in the previous packets. Since many D. Performance of the FPCM-Assisted Channel Equalizer
state-of-the-art indoor wireless systems are focus on with Accumulative Cluster Centers Scheme
high-speed transmission [13]-[16], the coherent time of these BER performances of the FCM-assisted and the
system are quite large than the period of packets. Thus, the FPCM-assisted blind channel equalization with and without
concept of accumulating cluster centers is indeed applicable accumulative cluster centers scheme versus SNR under
to such modern wireless communications systems. time-invariant channel are illustrated in Figs. 4 and 5,
respectively. Note that the clustering process takes place at
IV. PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS AND EXERIMENTAL every packet and the algorithm computes the cluster centers
RESULTS should not be independently from the previous ones. From
A. Time-Varying ChannelModeling Figs. 4-5, it is obvious that both of FCM-assisted and
FPCM-assisted blind channel equalization can benefit fromFor~~~~~~~atievrigcanl h canlscefcet,h the adaptation of the accumulative cluster centers scheme.(I = 0,1 ..n-1 ), are uncertain. The following nonlinear
time-invariant channel model was used [17]-[1 8]:
789
