 2
 
數位信號處理輔助之直接轉換式收發機的分析、設計與實現 
中、英文摘要及關鍵詞 
目前無線通訊應用上的寬頻、高資訊容量、與隨機網路的趨勢，構成射頻收發機在設
計上的新挑戰。一個能夠在各種多樣化的環境下正常運作的射頻收發機自然為大眾所迫切
需要。換句話說，一個優良的射頻收發機應當擁有自我調整的能力來適應環境的變化。就
另一方面而言，低硬體成本、高信賴度、與大量生產的適切程度等無法迴避的傳統要求依
然是產品商機的最後決定因素。然而，如果純粹以類比的方式來建造射頻收發機，因為類
比電路元件的不完美性和類比回饋電路的低控制彈性，許多射頻收發機電路的類比性能極
限總是非常難以超越。也因為類比電路元件的各種雜散效應，純類比式的射頻收發機通常
成本昂貴而且問題叢生。在本計畫中，我們引進一個低複雜度的數位信號處理的輔助單元
來幫助射頻收發機有系統性、適應性的、而且遞迴性的微調類比電路，以便抑制類比電路
的雜散效應、並降低系統的不確定性。數位信號處理的輔助單元所能提供的優點是非常明
顯的： 
1) 射頻產品的大量生產變成是可行的，因為這些射頻產品能夠自我調整來適應各種通訊應
用的環境。終端產頻的個別微調已不在需要。 
1) 如果拿加入數位信號處理的輔助單元的射頻收發機與傳統的純類比式的射頻收發機來 
 
基於以上的認知，本計畫專注於在直接轉換式射頻收發機的一些關鍵問題的解決。我們將
發展各種數位輔助的電路與演算法來解決這些以原來類比模式難以完美解決的關鍵問題。
這些關鍵問題包括 
1) I/Q 振幅失衡的問題， 
2) 相位隨機偏轉的問題， 
3) 直流信號偏移的問題，和 
4) 偶次數耦合失真干擾的問題。 
  
關鍵字：線性收發機，I/Q 失衡性，數位信號處理之輔助電路 
RF Transceivers capable of functioning under extremely volatile wireless environments 
are highly desirable. That is, these transceivers need to somehow adjust themselves to suit 
various application needs. At the same time, low cost, excellent reliability and suitable for 
mass-production are still the inevitable traditional criteria that eventually determine the market 
potential for each and every product.  However, due to imperfection of circuit components and 
inflexibility of feedback control, certain performance limits for the design of a transceiver are 
difficult to break through with only analog approaches.  It becomes either very problematic or 
very costly, because of various tedious side effects and uncertainties in the analog circuits. In 
this project, we propose to develop low-cost DSP-assisted (digital signal process assisted) 
circuitry alongside the analog direct-conversion transceiver to help systematically fine-tune the 
analog circuits to reduce the side effects, and adaptively and iteratively optimize the transceiver 
to eliminate the uncertainties.   
 
 4
back to the analog circuits to compensate for the I/Q imbalance and the DC-offset at either the 
RF or the IF frequency bands, the others just process the extracted data and digitally compensate 
for the I/Q imbalance and the DC-offset at either the IF frequency bands or the base-bands.  
The latter approaches are nothing more than one-tap complex equalizers for the I/Q imbalance 
compensators and another one-tap complex bias removers for the DC-offset compensators.  In 
our opinion, the latter approaches are trivial and the signals may not be able to survive all the 
way until the very last stage before the errors in the signals get compensated.  In other words, 
we should compensate the errors in the signal as early as possible so as to guarantee the best 
performance of each and every component in the system.  Therefore, in this project we focus 
only on developing those systems with feedbacks, i.e., similar to the former systems mentioned 
above. 
研究方法 
We focus on the system development at the receive side.  Because of the duality between the 
transmit side and the receive side, some of the techniques developed can be passed on to help 
the design of the system development at the transmit side.  We divide into three parts, system 
analysis, simulation with practical considerations, and circuit implementation, to be elaborated 
as follows: 
(1) System analysis 
a) Construct a system model: 
Shown in Fig. 1 is a feedback control system, where the target system is the original 
analog transceiver system under investigation, and the DSP block is the circuit 
control unit under development.  Whatever else outside of these two blocks is 
pretty much standard: A reference signal is extracted from the target system or 
provided elsewhere as a training sequence.  Together with the target system 
outputs, the reference signal is frequency down-converted and A/D converted to the 
base-band.  With all the available base-band information, the DSP block tries to 
optimize the target system and provided some base-band control signals as output 
of the DSP block.  The control signal is then down-converted and frequency 
up-converted to the RF band to adaptively control the target system directly or 
through some auxiliary circuitry.  Note that the up-conversion of control signal 
may be skipped, if the control signal is slow time-varying. 
b) Build up a math model:  
Next, we would define the math model for each block in the system model presented 
in Fig. 1. For maintaining the highest flexibility for system analysis, instead of using 
the realistic circuit model for each circuit component, we introduce some transfer 
function for each block and minimize the number of transfer functions as much as 
we can.  With all the noise, side-effects, imperfection and uncertainly of the circuit 
components, we may introduce some stochastic random variables into the system 
 6
( )nvmI
( )nvmQ
( )tvq
LPF
LPF
o90
  PAQMC
D
S
P
QDMC
( )nvdI
( )nvdQ
( )nvcI
( )nvcQ
LNA
T-mode
R-mode
A-mode B-mode
o90
( )nvrI
( )nvrQ
 
Fig. 2: The proposed transceiver structure with no additional feedback branches. 
(3) System implementations 
a) FPGA test-bed: 
To repeat the simulation done in the second items to make sure everything works 
while maintaining the excellent flexibility and maximum tunability, we first build a 
RF analog transceiver system using low cost analog lumped components.  At the 
same time, an FPGA development system is employed to mimic the DSP control 
system.  Shown in Fig. 3 is the block diagram of the FPGA test-bed.  The target 
system is connected to the FPGA development system through A/D and D/A 
converters and then overall managed by a personal computer. 
 
Fig. 3: Block diagram of the FPGA test-bed. 
 
 8
Part 2: Implementation description 
The second part in this report is to implement a I/Q imbalance compensation circuit with digital 
circuit. Generally speaking, perfect 90 degree phase difference between I and Q channel is hard 
to provide, because the phase divider is implemented in RF frequency band. Our prototype is to 
use DSP technique to process the digital signal to eliminate the I/Q imbalance problem. The 
system is setup as Fig. 3, where AMIQ is used to replace transmitter and VSA is vector signal 
analyzer used to analyze the constellation output. Due to the analog input requirement of VSA, 
we need an extra D/A to convert the received digital data to analog format. From Fig. 3 we can 
easily see the constellation results before digital compensation circuit applies and after the digital 
compensation circuit applies. The performance improvement in Table 1 is huge but the extra 
circuit cost is low. 
 
Gain 
Imbalance 
Phase 
Imbalance 
EVM (Error Vector Magnitude)
Before IQ Compensation 
EVM (Error Vector Magnitude)
Adaptive IQ Compensation 
5% 5 o 5.33% 1.39% 
10% 10 o 10.71% 1.38% 
15% 15 o 15.38% 1.39% 
20% 20 o 41.12% 1.37% 
25% 25 o 41.85% 1.45% 
30% 30 o 41.59% 1.36% 
Table 1: Summary of measurement result  
 
計畫成果自評部份 
A new I/Q imbalance compensation strategy is proposed in this project. Using existing signal 
receive path as the feed back path to gather the required feedback information simplifies the 
hardware cost and makes the design of the original analog RF transceiver much easier. The 
proposed strategy can compensate the I/Q imbalance in the transmitter and in the receiver at the 
same time, which can not be done by most other existing DSP-assisted I/Q imbalance 
compensation approaches. Additionally, the proposed technique periodically exchanges the I and 
the Q branches to avoid the problem of irreversible error in the feedback link when the DSP 
-assisted method is applied. Furthermore, there is no need to have a training sequence and the 
required convergence time is short in the proposed approach. In addition, the proposed algorithm 
has low complexity and is fully distributed, suitable for integrated-circuit implementation. 
本計畫執行結果與原計畫書之規劃大致上相符、大部分預定達成的目標也都有順利
達成。總體而言，本計畫執行上十分順利、而且結果豐碩、對於利用數位信號處理
的輔助單元來幫助射頻收發機有系統性、適應性的、而且遞迴性的微調類比電路相
關問題有知識上的根本貢獻，而且成效十分豐碩。 
 
 
 
