2.2 Requirements of efficient collaborative
manufacturing
Jagdev and Thoben [4] define the requirements for an
efficient supply chain. From the perspective of order
management, collaborative manufacturing equals to
supply chain with a view of not-managed process link.
Therefore, the requirements are also applicable in
collaborative manufacturing. Requirements for
collaborative manufacturing are modified as follows:
1. Collaborative partners need to have a clear
understanding to what is expected from each partner.
2. It will need to streamline both material and information
flow systems.
3. Information exchange among the partners must occur
efficiently to operate effectively.
4. Information and decision support systems at each
partner must be able to respond dynamically to meet
the ever-changing needs and communicate
accordingly to the affected partner in the collaborative
network.
2.3 System-to-system business exchange through
RosettaNet
RosettaNet is a common business exchange standard for
hi-tech industry. Partner interface processes (PIPs) the
core that defines business document with the vocabulary,
and a business process with the sequence of the message
dialog [6]. To join a RosettaNet collaborative network,
each company must adopt software system as a platform
for communication. For a not-managed process link, the
cost may be too high to the participated companies, not to
mention that most of the companies are small and medium
enterprises. Because of that, there must be a standard
that is applicable and affordable for the members in a
dynamic and reconfigurable network. Members do not
need to abandon their legacy production planning system
or adopt an expensive system to collaborate with others.
2.4 Presentation of protocols
Sequence diagram is a common tool for presenting the
interactive mechanism of protocols [3]. However, due to
lack of decision logic, protocols for collaborative
production which involve various conditions may become
cumbersome. To resolve the problem, Odell et al. [7]
propose methods of packaging and multiple threads for
sequence diagrams. Their approach increases the
usability of protocols. However, communication modules
have to be defined as basic elements such that protocols
can be packaged based on those modules.
3 COMMUNICATION MODULES FOR ORDER
MANAGEMENT
Communication modules for order management are
classified into four categories: order, response,
confirmation, and others. In the following subsections,
modules are described according to the categories.
3.1 Category of order
In order category, there are two protocol modules: (1) new
order protocol, and (2) outsourcing protocol.
Figure 1 shows the sequence diagram of new order
protocol. New order protocol is initiated by customer.
Order information is sent to the supplier first. The order
information include product, quantity, due date, etc. As
soon as the order information is sent, the customer saves
the information in database. After receiving the order
information, the supplier creates an account and check if
the required order is doable. If it is doable, the supplier
sends a success message back to the customer. A failure
message is sent, on the other cases. Icon for new order
protocol is presented in Figure 2. Each icon represents a
capsulation for the embedded sequence diagram.
Contents of messages that are interacted in the new order
protocol are summarized in Table 1.
Sequence diagram of outsourcing protocol is presented in
Figure 3. Initiator in the sequence diagram can be any
member in the supply network. Outsourcing protocol is a
typical contact net protocol. A more complicated version
can be made by needs based upon the design in Figure 3.
Icon and message contents of the protocol are presented
in Figure 4 and Table 2, respectively.
New Order Info
Success
Save Order Info
Customer Supplier
Create and Check Order Info
Failure
New Order ( )
x
Figure 1: New order protocol module
Customer Supplier
New Order ( )
Figure 2: Icon for new order protocol module
Table 1: Message contents for new order protocol module
Protocol
Module
Type of
Message
Direction Content
New
Order
Info
Customer 
Supplier
customer/order
number/product
type/due
date/quantity
Success customer/order
number/
”success”
New
Order
Failure
Supplier 
Customer
customer/order
number/
”failure”
Figure 3 : Outsourcing protocol module
that may join the collaborative production, material due
date protocol is a protocol module that is applied when the
supplier is at the most upstream position of a supply
network. It is a protocol module that informs the delivery
information to the downstream customers. Icon of the
protocol is presented in Figure 10.
Figure 9 Icon for order accepted protocol
Figure 10 Icon for material due date protocol
3.3 Category of confirmation
There are two protocol modules in this category: order
confirmation protocol and order cancellation protocol.
Order confirmation protocol represents a chain informative
messages sending to the upstream suppliers from the
customer to confirm the order. Icon of the protocol module
is shown in Figure 11.
Figure 11: Icon for order confirmation protocol
On the other hand, order cancellation protocol model is
applied when the customer does not agree with the results
for any kind of reasons. Some of the reasons could be the
unsatisfactory results from the conversations with the
upstream suppliers. Icon for the protocol module is
presented in Figure 12.
Figure 12: Icon for order cancellation protocol
3.4 Other protocol modules
To chain protocol modules into a large protocol for
upstream and downstream partner companies, sometimes
the protocol modules may need to wait for some inputs, or
to reactive when the inputs arrive. Hence two protocol
modules are required: transaction wait protocol and
transaction reactivation protocol. Transaction wait protocol
is applied when a company that receives a request from
other companies but cannot reply the request directly. It
cannot answer the request until it receives responses from
other companies through some other protocol modules.
Icon for transaction wait protocol is shown in Figure 13.
On the other hand, when the required responses from
other companies are received, a company has to use
transaction reactivation protocol module to continue the
protocol. Associated icon is presented in Figure 14.
4 PROTOCOLS FOR ORDER MANAGEMENT
Scenarios for order management among collaborative
enterprises are mainly concerned with the availability of
materials and capacities from the partner companies.
Those scenarios can be defined by protocols. Protocols
can be modularized by the protocol modules defined in
Section 3. In this section, several protocols for order
management are presented.
Figure 13: Icon for transaction wait protocol
Figure 14: Icon for transaction reactivation protocol
4.1 Simple order confirmation protocol
The simplest protocol for order management occurs when
every participant has sufficient materials and capacities to
meet the order requirements. Figure 15 shows a protocol
between customer and Factory A. The four stages in the
protocol can be further simplified by the protocol modules,
as shown in Figure 16.
Figure 15: Protocol of simple order confirmation (original)
4.2 Protocol for material request
When a company (Factory A, for example) receives a
customer order and finds that the materials are not
sufficient to meet the order requirements, it needs to
request for the material purchasing and delivery
information to its upstream supplier (Factory E, for
example) to replenish its material inventory. After receiving
the information, Factory A finds its capacity is able to meet
the order requirements. Factory A sends an acceptable
message to the customers. Upon receiving the
Customer Supplier
Accepted ( )
Customer Supplier
Material Date ( )
Customer Supplier
Confirm ( )
Customer Supplier
Cancel ( )
New Order Info
Success
Save Order Info
Customer Factory A
Create and Check Order Info
Material Planning：Sufficient
Capacity Planning：Sufficient
Acceptable Info
Save Order Info Save Order Info
Is End Customer：Yes
Evaluate
Order Confirm Info
Is End Supplier：Yes
Order Release
Order Accepted Info
Is End Customer：Yes
Process Completion
New
Order
Order
acceptable
Order
confirmation
Order
accepted
Customer Supplier
Wait (or )
Customer Supplier
Reactivation (or )
Figure 20: Protocol for subcontracting
5 DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
Various specific protocols for order management among
collaborative companies can be developed based on the
protocol modules in Section 3 and examples in Section 4.
Protocol modules represent a more fast and reliable
process for developing interactive behaviors among
collaborative enterprises. Based on the protocols,
companies can use simple internet-based program to
harness production information without replacing the
legacy production planning systems for the collaborative
companies. Huang et al. [8] develop a prototype system
for such a concept. Based on their system, a company can
develop a server interface (Figure 21) to accept
communication with downstream companies and a client
interface (Figure 22) to communicate with upstream
companies. As long as a company has both interfaces
developed based on the agreements on the use of certain
protocols with its collaborative companies, it can easily
collaborate with other companies without sacrificing its
autonomy and replacing its legacy production planning
system.
This research intends to propose the concept of
collaboration with light connections. Except market
approach, traditional business collaboration usually relies
on an information system that requires participated
companies to adopt a new system that may deeply get
involves with their internal business process flows. By
modularized protocols, this research proposes a more
flexible approach to construct collaboration for companies.
Figure 21 : Server interface for a company
Figure 22: Client interface for a company
6 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors would like to thank the financial support from
the research project NSC 95-2221-E-029-031, National
Science Council, Taiwan.
7 REFERENCES
[1]. Azevedo A. L., Toscano C., Sousa J. P., Soares A. L.,
2004, An Advanced Agent-Based Order Planning
System for Dynamic Networked Enterprises,
Production Planning & Control, 15, 2, 133-144.
[2]. Huang C. Y., Nof S. Y., 2000, Autonomy and Viability-
Measures for Agent-Based Manufacturing Systems,
International Journal of Production Research, 38, 17,
4129-4148.
[3]. Fowler M., Scott K., Uml Distilled: A Brief Guide to
Standard Object Modeling Language, 2nd ed., 1999
(Addison-Wesley: Reading, MA).
[4]. Jagdev H. S., Thoben K. D., 2001, Anatomy of
Enterprise Collaborations, Production Planning &
Control, 12, 5, 437-451.
[5]. Lambert D. M., Cooper M. C., 2000, Issues in Supply
Chain Management, Industrial Marketing Management,
29, 1, 65-83.
[6]. RosettaNet, 2007, PIPs,
http://portal.rosettanet.org/cms/sites/RosettaNet/Stand
ards/RStandards/pip/index.html.
[7]. Odell J., Parunak H. V. D., Bauer B., 2000, Extending
UML for Agents, Proc. of the 2nd Int. Bi-Conference
Workshop on Agent-Oriented Information Systems,
AOIS'00, Austin (USA), 3-17.
[8]. Huang C. Y., Huang C. C., Liu C. Y., 2007, Order
Confirmation Mechanism for Collaborative Production
Networks, International Journal of Production
Research, In Print.
Factory CFactory B
Factory E
Factory ACustomer
New Order ( )
Material Planning：Insufficient
Capacity Planning：Insufficient
Get Material Supplier
Wait ( )
New Order ( )
Evaluate
Material Date ( )
Wait ( )
Reactivation ( )
Check Outsourcing：Yes
Wait ( )
Outsourcing ( )
Evaluate
Wait ( )
Reactivation ( )
Acceptable ( )
Evaluate
Confirm ( )
Wait ( )
Reactivation ( )
Confirm ( )
Order Release Order Release
Accepted ( )
Reactivation ( )
Order Release
Accepted ( )
????????????
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-029-024
計畫名稱 定義協同生產系統所需之通信協定
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
黃欽印，副教授，東海大學工業工程與經營資訊學系
會議時間地點 波蘭
會議名稱 9th IFIP Working Conference on Virtual Enterprises
發表論文題目 COMMUNICTION PROTOCOLS FOR COLLABORATIVE FORECASTING
一、參加會議經過
此次會議的舉辦國為波蘭。飛行經由香港專機德國慕尼黑，復轉機波蘭 Poznan。舉辦的
單位為 Poznan University of Economics，為波蘭該相關學科排名前三名的大學；已有超過
100 年的歷史。此次的會議收穫很多，包括和會議主辦人 Luis M. Camarinha-Matos，學者
Hamideh Afsarmanesh、Adam Pawlak，X. Boucher，與 Garyfallos Fragidis 均有深度的交談。
個人亦在此次會議經由 Luis M. Camarinha-Matos 獲邀成為 Society of Collaborative
Network 的會員，為台灣學者第一人。同時希臘學者 Garyfallos Fragidis 亦邀請本人赴該
校講學。會議結束本人立即返國準備開學。會議成果論文已具結成專章於 Pervasive
Collaborative Networks，可見http://www.springerlink.com/content/j22131u782725155/。
會議地點 Poznan University of Economics
