 - 2 -
即興式無線行動網路之電能節約研究 
 
劉建源 
正修科技大學 電子工程系 
 
中文摘要 
 
有線網路的優勢為：技術成熟、價格具競爭力，但對於一些不利於施工的環境且又有快
速部署與連線應用的需求時，有線網路便顯得難以建置。而即興式無線網路則特別適合這
類環境中應用，譬如:機場大廳、博物館、火車站候車室、觀光景點、圖書館、公園、校園、
辦公室、住家、甚至戰場上等。因此，近年來即興式無線網路已成為熱門研究領域。 
在即興式無線網路的研究領域中仍有許多問題，亟待探討解決，例如：如何省電以延長
行動電腦的可使用時間，對於一般行動電腦使用者而言，延長其行動電腦的可使用時間是
最重要的課題之ㄧ。在本研究計畫中，將針對行動電腦的電能節約問題，提出一個新的省
電方法，稱之為高效能分散協同功能 (EDCF, an efficient distributed coordination function)。
EDCF 的研究是基於媒體接取控制層，它需要運用分散式功率控制方法以節省行動電腦的電
能，同時 EDCF 會運用分散式同時傳輸控制方法以提升即興式無線網路的傳輸效能(network 
throughput)。EDCF 可視為是 IEEE 802.11 DCF 的改進版本，為了評估 EDCF 的效能，本計
畫需要研發用以描述即興式無線網路的數學模式與模擬模式，藉此模式進行和其他方法的
電腦模擬比較。 
本計畫的研究工作可分為四個部份進行：首先，需要研讀即興式無線網路媒體接取控制
層的標準規範(IEEE 802.11 DCF)，並參考其他在媒體接取控制層上設計省電機制的相關研
究文獻，以確立電能節約問題的改善方向。第二部份，吾人將研發出嶄新的 EDCF 方法，並
推導 EDCF 的數學模式與模擬模式。第三部份，吾人將設計撰寫進行電腦模擬實驗所需的電
腦軟體。最後，吾人將進行廣泛的電腦模擬實驗，並提出量化的數據結果以證明 EDCF 的省
電效能與網路傳輸效能之提升。 
 - 4 -
required to realize the transmit power threshold with accurate power control [25] and to enable the aggres-
sive sleep principle with precise synchronization and affirmative wake up schedule [16]. 
The main contribution of this paper is to propose a novel method, named efficient distributed coordina-
tion function (EDCF) which is developed to accomplish the power conservation and the enhancement of 
network throughput in a single-hop ad hoc network. EDCF is based on the power save mode of the IEEE 
802.11 DCF. As there are some drawbacks of the standard power-save DCF, e.g. the state transition algo-
rithm between the active mode and the power save mode is too straightforward and conservative that the 
mobile hosts may remain awake for whole beacon interval, if the hosts have data frames to transmit or re-
ceive. Unnecessary power consumption during the idle state may be reduced to save energy of the hosts. In 
addition, DCF access method did not include the power control algorithm [1] which may be designed to im-
prove the network throughput beside the power conservation. EDCF applies an aggressive sleep algorithm 
on DCF to gain more sleep time than DCF and utilizes a power control algorithm to restrict the transmit 
power to achieve more power conservation. EDCF also employs a simultaneous transmission algorithm to 
allow additional data frames to be transmitted simultaneously during the current data frame transmission. 
An extensive simulation is developed to verify the correctness of EDCF. In the simulation, three access 
control methods, i.e. the DCF, the power save mode DCF, the EDCF with aggressive sleep and power con-
trol, are examined under the same network population and traffic condition. The network throughput, the 
power consumption and the lifetime of a mobile host are recorded during the simulation for comparison. The 
results of the simulation show that EDCF significantly enhances the network throughput with 4%, improves 
the power conservation with up to 85%, and extends the operation time of the battery of mobile hosts. 
The remainder sections of the paper are organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce the IEEE 802.11 
MAC to be applied on ad hoc networks. Section 3 describes the algorithms which we proposed to enhance 
the IEEE 802.11 DCF protocol. Section 4 describes the simulation of the proposed method and compares the 
results of the simulation to that of the IEEE 802.11 DCF. Section 5 concludes the paper. 
2. The IEEE 802.11 MAC 
The IEEE 802.11 standard specifies MAC and physical layers. The MAC protocol is introduced and dis-
cussed in this section. As for the detailed descriptions, readers shall refer to the ANSI/IEEE 802.11 standards 
[1], [2]. In the IEEE 802.11, a station (STA) is a device that contains the IEEE 802.11 conformant MAC and 
physical interface. The point coordination function (PCF) and the distributed coordination function (DCF) 
are two access control protocols specified in 802.11 MAC. DCF provides a contention based service, 
whereas PCF provides a contention free service. PCF is an optional function and shall only be performed in 
an infrastructure network. Whereas, DCF is a basic medium access protocol and is only provided for an ad 
hoc network. STAs operate with PCF in an infrastructure network forms a basic service set (BSS). On the 
other hand, STAs performs with DCF in an ad hoc network forms an independent basic service set (IBSS). 
 - 6 -
A RTS/CTS exchange can be optionally adopted before the MPDU transmission to reduce the impact 
from the collision caused by the interference from hidden terminals [10]. A sender transmits a RTS control 
frame before a MPDU transmission to inform a recipient. If a collision happens, the wasted time is only 20 
octets instead of a full MPDU length. The recipient then replies a CTS to the sender a SIFS time later, if it 
is ready to receive the MPDU. When the sender receives the CTS, it starts to transmit its MPDU. All other 
STAs preset or update their network allocation vector (NAV) to restrict further transmissions whenever 
they perceive the transmission of the RTS, CTS, or MPDU. The frame sequence of RTS, CTS, MPDU 
(Data or management frame), ACK exchange with DIFS and SIFS, and NAV was shown as Figure 1. In 
Figure 1, a SIFS is shorter than a DIFS. This is a simple prioritized scheme to let the ACK, CTS, or MPDU 
has higher priority than the RTS frame [6], [11]. Figure 2 illustrates the formats of the RTS, CTS, Data, and 
ACK frames to be transmitted in an ad hoc networks. 
 
Figure 2: DCF frame formats 
Observation 1: Within a BSA, only one STA is allowed to transmit at a time. Other STAs shall be in either 
the state of reception or the idle state for a period specified by the NAV. However, if the current transmission 
can be transmitted with the least required power, and the idle STAs may simultaneously try to transmit with a 
restricted power that the trying STAs will not interfere to the STAs of the current transmission. Hence, it is 
possible to transmit more MPDUs during a normal frame sequence. Furthermore, power conservation will 
be the byproduct from the transmission in this way. 
The PSM Access 
A STA is either in active mode (AM) for timely performance consideration or in power save mode (PSM) 
for saving energy [12]. A power management bit in the frame control field of a frame sent by a STA indicates 
the PSM that the STA will adopt upon successful completion of the frame exchange. With AM, a STA shall 
 - 8 -
To improve the channel throughput of an IBSS and the energy conservation of all STAs, an efficient DCF 
protocol, abbreviated as EDCF, is proposed for the IBSS with dense population of STAs. As described in the 
observation 1, the power control function shall be required to adjust the transmitting power to the least re-
quired power level of a sender for reaching the recipient [18], [21], [26], [27], [29]. Thus, the power control 
capability is assumed with all STAs in the IBSS. Regarding observation 2, a PS STA may try to be in doze 
state as much as possible before and after the receipt of announced MPDUs. This aggressive power conser-
vation scheme is also developed in the EDCF. The functions of EDCF Protocol are described as follows.  
(1). Initially, a beacon frame is transmitted at per TBTT time. The beacon carries a time stamp, a beacon 
interval and an IBSS parameter set. The time stamp is used for the time synchronization of each STA in 
the ad hoc network. The timing of beacon is controlled by the beacon interval. The IBSS parameter set 
contains an ATIM window. The ATIM window is greater than zero to indicate that the PSM is used 
within the IBSS. A STA shall update its ATIM window with the value of ATIM window specified 
within the beacon frame.   
(2). All STAs shall buffer MPDUs for PS STAs. MPDUs for AM STAs may be transmitted at any valid 
time. Following the beacon, during the ATIM window, a STA shall send an ATIM frame to each PS 
STA for which it has buffered MPDUs. The PS STA may remain awake until all the buffered MPDUs 
were sent. In DCF PSM, note that, the PS STA shall remain awake for the entire current beacon inter-
val. If the transmitting STA is unable to transmit an ATIM during ATIM window or to transmit all the 
buffered MPDUs during the beacon interval, due to contention with other STAs, the STA shall retain 
the MPDUs and announce an ATIM during the next ATIM window. 
 
Figure 4: The PSM of EDCF 
 
(3). After the ATIM window, the PS STA had received an ATIM during ATIM window may only remain 
awake until it receives the MAC header of the coming MPDU transmission for inspecting whether the 
MPDU is transmitted to it or not. If the MPDU is for the PS STA, it shall receive the whole MPDU and 
 - 10 -
Where, the Pr(RTS) denotes the receiving power strength of the RTS, and the Pr(CTS) denotes the re-
ceiving power strength of the CTS. Since the current MPDU is sent by the least required Pt, other STA 
may try to issue new transmission under two constraints. Firstly, the simultaneous RTS/CTS shall be 
sent with a power level less than the Pl-Pc in order not to interfere the current transmission. Pc is a con-
stant to make sure that the two transmissions are safely separated. As the mobility of most applications 
in an IBSS are belonged to moderate or slow speed, the estimation of the restrict power level may not 
violate the limit for resulting in a cross-interference. Secondly, the simultaneous transmission is going 
along with the current transmission. Thus, the simultaneous duration shall be less than or equal to the 
duration of the current transmission. The STA to send the simultaneous MPDU can fragment the 
MPDU if the length of the MPDU is longer than the limitation of the current duration. Figure 5 illus-
trates the simultaneous enhancement of EDCF. The snapshot of the simultaneous transmissions was 
shown in Figure 6. With simultaneous transmissions as shown in Figure 5, more MPDUs were trans-
mitted within the first beacon interval and more doze times are obtained in compare with the cases of 
Figure 3 and 4. Thus, more energy may be saved and the channel utilization and/or the network 
throughput may be potentially enhanced [14], [24]. 
 
Figure 6: simultaneous Transmissions 
Concerning the unsuccess of the simultaneous RTS/CTS exchange, it is possibly caused by that there is 
no response from the recipient or a collision happens during the exchange. In the case of no response, it 
may indicate that the recipient is outside the transmission range of the RTS STA. Retransmission is not 
required for the case. In the case of a collision, it may be caused by multiple simultaneous transmission 
attempts of several nearby STAs which try to send at the same time. The collision may be resolved by 
retransmission with a random backoff. However, a retransmission attempt may be an overhead to the 
simultaneous transmission and shall not try again when the remaining current duration is too short to 
utilize the simultaneous transmission. Thus, there would be no any simultaneous transmission attempt 
if the remaining time of the primary transmission is less than a constant parameter of Tcm (Tcm was set 
to the time equivalent to 256B in our simulation). Since the RTS STA can not distinguish the difference 
 - 12 -
70.0%
75.0%
80.0%
85.0%
90.0%
95.0%
100.0%
40% 60% 80% 100% 120%
Traffic Load (%)
Go
od
pu
t (%
) 
EDCF2
SDCF
EDCF1
PDCF
 
Figure 7: Gootput 
Result discussion: Figure 7 shows the goodput results. All protocols perform at high goodput with the 
value of over 97% on the traffic load less than the saturated situation of 80% traffic load. The reason is that 
there are less generated frames than the frames which the network can transmit. Less collision and retrans-
mission make the goodput at high level. The goodput of SDCF has the highest value. PDCF, EDCF1, and 
EDCF2 suffer slightly due to the control overhead of the periodic beacon frame and the ATIM window. The 
goodput of all protocols except EDCF2 degrade when the traffic load is over the saturation point. EDCF2 
defers goodput degradation by utilizing the simultaneous transmission method to send more frames. When 
traffic load is over 100%, the goodput of all protocols decrease sharply due to serious collision and retrans-
mission overhead. In addition, the number of discarded frames is quickly grown as the retransmission times 
over the retransmission limit or buffer full. The number of discarded frames is observed during simulation 
and is not shown in the Figures. 
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
40% 60% 80% 100% 120%
Traffic Load (%)
Ne
two
rk 
Th
rou
gh
pu
t (%
) 
EDCF2
SDCF
EDCF1
PDCF
 
Figure 8: Network throughput 
The results of network throughput over various traffic loads were shown as Figure 8. Note that all curves 
 - 14 -
Figure 10 illustrates the energy efficiency of the network with various DCF protocols. Since the energy 
efficiency is obtained from the throughput divided by the total consumed energy, we can derive Figure 10 
from Figures 8 and 9. In Figure 10, SDCF has the lowest energy efficiency. SDCF linearly grows up until 
traffic load approaching the saturation point. After the point, it turns to be flat. As for the energy efficiency 
of PDCF, it increases with greater slope than SDCF, and then gradually turns to be flat when traffic load is 
arround 80%, and then goes down on heavy traffic load. This is because of higher traffic load produces more 
ATIMs for corresponding STAs. With PDCF, these STAs must keep awake for whole beacon interval. Thus, 
there are fewer nodes in doze state while the traffic load increases. That means the averaged residual energy 
of PDCF decreases as the traffic load increases. Therefore, PDCF has lower energy efficiency on heavy traf-
fic load than on saturation point. However, PDCF still has two to three times of energy efficiency than 
SDCF over entire traffic load. 
0
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
40% 60% 80% 100% 120%
Traffic Load (%)
En
erg
y E
ffic
ien
cy
 (b
it/p
J) 
EDCF2
EDCF1PDCF
SDCF
 
Figure 10: Energy efficiency 
Finally, EDCF1 and EDCF2 perform the best among all protocols. In EDCF, higher efficiency is obtained 
on heavy load than on light load. The reason of low energy efficiency on the light load case is because of the 
network throughput is too low to fully utilize the wireless channel. In the cases of moderate and heavy traffic 
load, the energy efficiency of EDCF1 and EDCF2 increase obviously, and are much higher than that of 
SDCF and PDCF. Up to 6.57 to 7.38 times of energy efficiency is obtained by EDCF than SDCF. With 
EDCF2, on heavy load case, the network throughput is able to reach its maximum of 94% which is 4% 
higher than EDCF1. Thus, EDCF2 has better energy efficiency than EDCF1. The results of the simulation 
encourage nodes to utilize the network as much as possible to enhance the network throughput and to obtain 
higher energy efficiency.  
5. Conclusion 
We have presented in details the efficient distributed coordination function for an ad hoc network. We also 
