 2 
In the modern healthcare, lots of information systems and instruments are used in clinical departments.  For 
examples, for achieving the never-ending goal of accurate and effective radiotherapy, many sophisticate and 
delicate modalities and information systems are used (figure 1) in RT departments.  
 
Figure 1. Modalities were used in radiotherapy workflows. Many different types of clinical contents would be 
generated in the RT processes. 
 
As demonstrated in figure 1, a standard radiotherapy process including following steps: 
 Image acquisition:  acquiring CT, MR, or PET reference images 
 Treatment planning: defining target area, risk organs, radiation beams 
 Dose simulation and verification : simulating and verifying the planning results 
 Therapy: using the planned methods and modalities to apply radiation   
As described about, physicians, physicists, dosimetrists, and therapists, along with other members of a 
treatment team, should collaborate on developing and delivering a RT treatment program with a serious of 
sophisticate planning procedures and quality control tests. And here have various different types of 
radiotherapy modality (IMRT, IGRT, Gamma Knife, Cyber Knife etc.) that may require their own planning 
and verification systems. Not only radiotherapy modalities, because the compatibility problem of radiotherapy 
systems, there usually have a varieties of planning and simulation systems in RT departments. This is not only 
cost and efficiency problem for physicians to use all the systems, it also difficult for doctors to take a whole 
view of patients if the patients have take a varieties of radiotherapies. And not all cancer patients’ clinical data, 
such as administrative data, scheduling data (Patients, Equipment, Staff), annotations, Doctor’s notes, 
chemotherapy, regimes, pharmacy ordering, charge capture, QA related data (Dosimetric data) that may be not 
presented in RT systems. Consequently, physicians cannot take a whole view of patient’s condition in a single 
system. And a more sophisticate planning and evaluation usually is not feasible in current radiotherapy 
department. It is difficult to do overall evaluation and provide personalized medication using current RT 
systems. We need new architecture of information systems and services for providing precise and 
 4 
Local clinic
Clinical 
repository
Medical center
HIS & 
LIS
PACS
RT 
planning
HIS & 
LIS
PACS
Tissue 
Bank
Virtual 
slides
Bio Lab.
Micro-
array
Geno 
test
Patient orientated diagnosis,  treatment and 
prognosis evaluation 
Clinical 
repository Clinical 
repository
Healthcare Portal : Authentication, Accounting, and Access Control
EHR Registry Center
Integration basing on IHE IT Infrastructure
Physician,   radiologist, pathologist, oncologist,  surgeon, bio-technican 
 
Figure 3.  A patent oriented medical informatics architecture for individualized cancer analysis and planning.  
  
As demoed in figure 3, the data that we plan to collect would be stored in different systems or databases (HIS, 
LIS, PACS, and tissue bank). The systems may be located in different healthcare departments, hospitals, and 
institutes. This research has constructed a clinical repository for collecting data generated from clinical 
systems used for cancer diagnosis and therapy. The clinical repository was constructed according IHE 
(Integrating Healthcare Enterprise) XDS (Cross Enterprise Document Sharing). In this study, we cooperated 
with Taipei-VGH (Veterans General Hospital) Cancer Center and Taipei institute of pathology for handling 
the clinical data and documents that generated from these two institutes. Following HL7 CDA specifications 
and the clinical report templates (CDA Level 2 templates)[] announced by DOH (Department of Health) of 
our government standard clinical documents were generated in the cancer diagnosis and treatment workflow. 
The clinical documents can be saved in clinical repositories that located in these two institutes. The research 
also follows XDS specifications to generated metadata correlated to the CDA reports. As shown in figure 3, 
the metadata would be subscripted to an IHE registry center using IHE XDS specified integration protocols 
(web services). And the registry center would cooperate with Single Sign On (SSO) portal with access control 
mechanisms and policies. Consequently, documents generated in cancer diagnosis and treatment processes 
can be shared across different healthcare institutes under a secure web framework basing on standard IHE 
XDS integration profiles. As demonstrated in figure 3, these would constitute a patient oriented architecture 
for sharing clinical documents for clinicians to perform individualized cancer analysis and planning.  
 
System architecture for sharing RT texture and image data 
Following XDS profiles, clinical documents (CDA formatted and Acrobat PDF formatted) could be shared 
across healthcare departments and institutes. And because both CDA (CDA adopting XSLT for presentation) 
 6 
Currently, some of modalities and systems support DICOM RT so the planning and treatment results can be 
stored as DICOM RT objects in PACS server. However, the RT objects usually cannot be handle and 
presented in PACS viewing systems. For viewing both texture and image related data generated in 
radiotherapy processes, the study purpose an integration framework basing on medical informatics standards 
(HL7, DICOM, IHE ), figure 5. 
 
 
 Figure 5. RT information integration framework proposed in this research.  
 
Figure 5 demonstrates systems and integration framework that is constructing in Taipei VGH cancer center. A 
Oncology Information System (ARIA workstation provided by Varian cooperation) has constructed in the 
center.  ARIA workstation provided RT domain specific functionalities for scheduling, chart recording, and 
treatment history reviewing. And it supports HL7 v2 messages for importing patient data, laboratory and 
pathology results from HIS (Hospital Information System). Currently, ARIA has not support exporting HL7 
CDA reports. In this study a web server (using ASP.Net) was constructed to access RT data that stored in 
ARIA database and provided RT charts (CDA formatted).  The web server also following XDS web services 
for integrating with standard XDS document repository. ARIA workstation accompanies with the web server 
constructed in this study would constitute a RT EMR ( Electronic Medical Record) that support standard 
integration interfaces (HL7 V2 messages import and CDA documents exports).    
As that in figure 5, all DICOM formatted RT and image objects generated in cancer diagnosis and treatment 
processes can be stored by PACS server (SmartPACS provided by TEDPC). However, DICOM RT objects 
cannot be shown in the image viewing system used in VGH. Conventional DICOM objects and protocols is 
not a web solution for integration and expending the usages of medical images. Consequently, DICOM 
defined WADO (Web Access to DICOM persist Objects) in part 18 for viewing medical image on web. This 
 
 
 
  
 8 
   
Figure 6. Screenshot of an RT XML data file from the Firefox browser. 
 
Results 
Viewing 3D cross-sectional images on the Web 
With the extension of WADO, our RT-WADO server provides viewing 3D cross-section imaging on the Web. 
A series of CT or MR cross-sectional images can be built up as a 3D voxel array on the developed Web server. 
The user interface of the 3D cross-sectional view is shown in Figure 7, which displays transverse, sagittal, and 
coronal views. The locations of the cross sections are adjustable directly on the RIA Web page by the three red 
lines on the interface (e.g., dragging the vertical red line on the transverse image will change the 
corresponding sagittal view). A change in the cross-section location is accomplished by issuing an HTTP 
request (listed in the lower center of Figure 7) to the Web server, which is similar to a standard WADO request 
with two extra parameters: ViewAxis and Index (meaning the location index). The Web server then generates 
the corresponding JPEG image that is displayed in the browser. The sizes of the sagittal and coronal images 
can be calculated according to the original transverse image size and the related resolution information 
contained in the DICOM tags (Pixel Spacing and Slice Thickness). Consequently, three cross-sectional views 
for a 3D voxel array can be generated in the Web server, and 3D navigation of the human body structure can 
be achieved in the browser. 
 10 
that shows in figure 8. 
 
Figure 9. RIA solution for presenting RT images and contours.  
 
Discussion 
Pros and cons of the Web solution for handling clinical data 
There are many benefits associated with adopting Web architecture for handling clinical data. Web solutions 
provide a well-known and unique user interface: the browser. Furthermore, integration is much more simple 
by using HTTP protocols in the heterogeneous and distributed healthcare environment. There is thus a huge 
potential for providing more powerful and convenient healthcare services. 
Web-based solutions are conventionally more difficult to implement and have more limited functionalities 
compared to Windows-based solution. However, the limitations have been gradually (or, in some applications, 
rapidly) overcome with the advent of RIA technologies. As demonstrated in this paper, RIA solutions can 
accomplish most of the image-viewing functionalities as using conventional DICOM viewing systems. In 
addition, Web technologies are more appropriate than the current DICOM standards for handling very large 
microscopy images [8]. The only drawback of Web architecture for handling medical images is that the image 
processing and reconstruction must be accomplished on Web servers. Image processing requires considerable 
computation, and DICOM images are traditionally handled and processed in standalone DICOM viewing 
systems. In the RIA Web solution, as shown in Figure 13, DICOM images should be retrieved and handled on 
a Web server, and the process for generating JPEG images on the Web server is very time-consuming. Unlike 
conventional PACS viewing systems, it is the Web server that performs most of the image processing when 
using the RIA solution, and this may constitute a loading overhead when all of the images are loaded onto a 
 12 
Manifest for Signing Clinical Documents, Journal of Digital Imaging. Published online 17,March 2009. 
DOI:10.1007/s10278-009-9191-y   
    
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蕭嘉宏 計畫編號：98-2221-E-320-003- 
計畫名稱：個人化人體圖譜及其分析系統在腫瘤醫學之應用--總計畫:個人化人體圖譜及其分析系統在
腫瘤醫學之應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 50% 
篇 
與子計畫二列為
共同成果 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 50% 與子計畫二列為共同成果 專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 80% 其中一名為陽明醫工所學生 
博士生 1 0 30% 
陽明醫工博班學
生協助規劃及建
構 IHE XDS 整合
架構 
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 3 50% 
與子計畫二列為
共同成果,另有兩
篇論文發表中 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 50% 
篇 
與子計畫二列為
共同成果 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
