 2
一、 中文摘要 
    在此篇報告中，我們第一次展示了使用高介電係數三氧化二鐠的閘極絕緣層，和氮離
子植入結晶技術應用在複晶矽薄膜電晶體上達到高效能特性。在非晶矽薄膜實施固相結晶
退火前，不同氮離子濃度的劑量會植入非晶矽薄膜裡面，而使在晶粒邊界上的缺陷態鈍態
化。由最後實驗結果可看出，具有氮離子植入劑量為 5 × 1012 cm-2 的三氧化二鐠複晶矽薄膜
電晶體能大大地改善原本電性。再者，此高介電係數的三氧化二鐠複晶矽薄膜電晶體也具
有很好的抗熱載子破壞能力。 
 
二、 英文摘要 
This paper demonstrates the polycrystalline silicon (poly-Si) thin-film transistors (TFTs) 
with high-κ praseodymium oxide (Pr2O3) gate dielectric and nitrogen implantation to achieve 
high-performance characteristics for the first time. Nitrogen atoms with various dosages are 
implanted into amorphous silicon (α-Si) film to passivate the grain boundary trap states during 
solid-phase crystallization (SPC) annealing. From experimental results, the electrical 
characteristics of the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFT implanted with the nitrogen dosage of 5 × 1012 cm-2 
could be greatly improved. In addition, a better hot-harrier immunity of high-κ Pr2O3 poly-Si 
TFT could be also obtained. 
 
三、 關鍵字 
Polycrystalline silicon (poly-Si) thin-film transistor (TFT), praseodymium oxide (Pr2O3), 
nitrogen implantation, solid-phase crystallization (SPC) 
 
四、 計畫的緣由與目的 
Recently, polycrystalline silicon thin-film transistors (poly-Si TFTs) have been widely used 
for pixel elements and driving circuits in active-matrix liquid-crystal displays (AMLCD) to 
realize system on panel (SOP) technology 1-3). Because poly-Si TFTs are fabricated on 
inexpensive glass substrate, low-temperature process is required for the realization of commercial 
flat-panel displays (FPDs). The solid-phase crystallization (SPC) process with maximum process 
temperature limiting to 600 °C is widely used to recrystallize amorphous silicon (α-Si) film due 
to its low production cost and good grain-size uniformity 4, 5). However, only by using SPC 
technology, it is difficult to develop a high-performance poly-Si TFT with low threshold voltage, 
low subthreshold swing, and high driving current to drive the liquid crystal on a large size panel. 
In order to break through this challenge, integrating high-κ gate dielectric into poly-Si TFT was 
proposed to increase the gate capacitance density for keeping a high current drivability and a low 
gate leakage 6-8).  
In addition, trap states at interface and grain boundaries could be rapidly filled up to improve 
the subthreshold swing by using high-κ dielectric applied on poly-Si TFT 7, 8). However, such 
 4
After 300-nm tetraethoxylsilane (TEOS) oxide film used as inter-layer dielectric (ILD) 
passivation was deposited by plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) system at 
300 °C, the contact holes were patterned by two-step contact etching process, as shown in Fig. 
1(d). The 300-nm ILD passivation and Pr2O3 gate dielectric on source and drain regions were 
sequentially removed by buffered oxide etch (BOE) and H3PO4 : HNO3 : CH3COOH : H2O (50 : 
2 : 10 : 9) mixed solution. Since such mixed solution has rather high etching selectivity of the 
Pr2O3 film to the ILD passivation, the Pr2O3 film could be completely etched away by an excess 
over etching. After the contact holes were etched, the aluminum (Al) film of 500 nm was 
deposited by PVD system. Finally, the Al pad was patterned, as shown in Fig. 1(e), and then the 
nitrogenous poly-Si TFTs with Pr2O3 gate dielectric were accomplished. For comparison, the 
control poly-Si Pr2O3 TFT without the nitrogen implantation (DN = 0) was also prepared by the 
same process flow. In addition, note that all poly-Si TFTs had no plasma treatment in this work. 
 
 
Fig. 1. The main process steps of the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFT with nitrogen-implanted poly-Si film. 
 
The capacitance-voltage (C-V) characteristic and the leakage current density of the Pr2O3 
film on Si substrate are shown in Fig. 2. The Pr2O3 films on Si substrate and on poly-Si film are 
fabricated at the same process. From the cross-sectional transmission electron microscope (TEM) 
image of the proposed poly-Si TFT in inset of Fig. 2, the thickness of Pr2O3 gate dielectric after 
 6
of transconductance. The subthreshold swing mainly depends on the deep interface traps states 16). 
As shown in Fig. 3, such the same subthreshold swings mean that the interface traps states at the 
Pr2O3 gate dielectric/poly-Si channel interface are not changed with various nitrogen dosages. 
Therefore, the electrical improvement of the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFT by using nitrogen implantation 
could be attributed to the reduction of the grain boundary trap states within poly-Si film during 
conventional SPC annealing. However, when the nitrogen dosage is increased to 5×1013 cm-2, the 
electrical characteristics the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFT would be degraded. The overdose of nitrogen 
implantation (DN = 5 × 1013 cm-2) in α-Si film would obstruct α-Si film crystallized to poly-Si 
film compared to that without nitrogen implantation (control sample). Therefore, the turn-on 
current of the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFT without large size of poly-Si grains is decreased.  
 
 
Fig. 3. The transfer characteristics of the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFTs with various nitrogen dosages of 0 
(control sample), 5 × 1012 cm-2, and 5 × 1013 cm-2 under VDS = 0.1 V. 
 
 Fig. 4 compares the transfer characteristics (IDS-VGS) of the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFTs with 
nitrogen dosages of 0 and 5 × 1012 cm-2 under VDS = 0.1 and 1 V. The insert table summarizes the 
electrical parameters. The threshold voltage (VTH) is defined as the gate voltage required a 
normalized drain current of IDS = (W/L) × 100 nA at VDS = 0.1 V. The ON/OFF current (ION, 
max/IOFF, min) ratio is defined as that ratio of the maximum on-state current to the minimum 
off-state current at VDS = 1 V. The threshold voltage (VTH), field-effective mobility (μFE) could be 
improved from 2.15 to 1.9 V and 34 to 47.4 cm2/V-s, respectively. However, the subthreshold 
swings (S.S.) and ON/OFF current ratio of them are almost the same with the value about 242 
mV/dec and over the sixth power of ten, respectively. Besides, the gate-induced drain leakage 
(GIDL) current at VDS = 1 V and VGS = 0 V could be also suppressed by a half-order magnitude 
 8
implantation has about 40 % improvement at VGS = 4 V, compared to the control sample. The 
pervious studies 6-8) have been reported that using various high-κ gate dielectrics on poly-Si TFTs 
could quickly fill the trap states in poly-Si channel to improve device electrical characteristics 
due to its well gate controllability. However, in this work, using the nitrogen implantation 
technique on the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFTs will further passivate these trap states in poly-Si film and 
improve the device performance.  
 
 
Fig. 6. The drain current degradation for the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFTs with and without nitrogen 
implantation under hot-carrier stress condition. 
 
Finally, the hot-carrier reliability on the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFTs with and without the nitrogen 
implantation is investigated in Fig. 6. All devices are biased at VGS = VDS = 4 V, which is a 
hot-carrier stress condition. The degradation of drain current is defined as ΔION/ION, 0, where the 
ΔION = ION,s − ION,0, ION,0 is initial ION, and ION,s is the ION for each stress time. The degradation of 
ION of the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFT with nitrogen dosages (DN) of 5 × 1012 cm-2 is about 5 % after 
1000-s hot-carrier stress, which is superior to that without nitrogen implantation (control sample). 
The ION degradation of control sample would be saturated at −70 % after 200-s hot-carrier stress. 
It is reported that the hot-carrier stress easily breaks the weak Si-Si and Si-H bonds (with the 
bonding energy of 70 kcal/mol) to generate the interface states and grain boundary states in 
poly-Si film 14, 17). If the moderate dosage of nitrogen is implanted into α-Si film during SPC 
annealing, the stronger Si-N bonds with a higher bonding energy of 81 kcal/mol would replace 
the weak Si-Si and Si-H bonds to achieve excellent hot-carrier endurance 17). It would be note 
that the Pr2O3 poly-Si TFT with nitrogen dosages of 5 × 1013 cm-2 even has a higher stress current 
that is under more serious hot-carrier stress condition than that without nitrogen implantation. On 
 10
15) M. Kimura, T. Yasuhara, K. Harada, D. Abe, S. Inoue, and T. Shimoda: J. Soc. Inf. Disp. 13 (2005) 12, 1027.   
16) F. V Farmakis, J. Brini, G. Kamarions, and C. A. Dimitriadis: IEEE Electron Device Lett. 22 (2001) 74.  
17) L. Pauling: The Nature of the Chemical Bond (Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY, (1960) 3rd ed. 
 
八、 成果自評 
本計畫原規劃為兩年期計畫，但只核准一年，所以原計畫書中的某些工作項目由於時間及
經費的限制，沒有執行。有執行的工作項目敘述如下：高介電材料開發及其特性分析，低
溫複晶矽薄膜電晶體實作，量測電性分析等。此計畫經費支持兩位碩士班學生畢業，以及
一位博士生執行本計畫鑒博士班研究。部分研究成果已整理三篇文章投稿國際期刊，兩篇
研討會論文，論文名稱與投稿期刊分別為如下。 
 
九、 發表期刊和國際會議論文 
1. C.-K. Deng, C.-H. Cheng, and B.-S. Chiou, “Low-voltage organic thin-film transistor with high-k 
lanthanum-yttrium-oxide gate insulator,” revised in Eelectrochemical and Solid-State Lett.. 
2. C.-K. Deng, C.-H. Cheng, and B.-S. Chiou, “Low-voltage organic thin-film transistor with high-k 
LaYOx gate insulator,” ECS Transaction, vol. 16, no. 9, pp. 231-236, 2008. 
3. C.-K. Deng, H.-R. Chang, and B.-S. Chiou, “The electrical properties of high-k praseodymium oxide 
polycrystalline silicon thin-film transistors with nitrogen implantation,＂Japanese Journal of Applied 
Physics, vol. 47, no. 2, pp. 853–856, Feb. 2008. 
4. C.-K. Deng, C.-H. Cheng, and B.-S. Chiou, “Low-voltage organic thin-film transistor with high-k 
LaYOx gate insulator,” Proc. of the 214th Meeting of ECS, Honolulu, USA, Oct. 12-17, 2008. 
5. C.-K. Deng, H.-R. Chang, and B.-S. Chiou, “The electrical properties of high-k Pr2O3 thin-film 
transistors with nitrogen implanted polysilicon films,＂Proc. of the 14th International Display 
Workshops (IDW), Sapporo, Japan, Dec. 5-7, 2007, pp. 1845-1848. 
