求得的解的品質。這樣的設計基本上有三
個缺點(i)從巨大解集中均勻挑出 1000個解
並不是一個挑好解的恰當方法(ii)他們並不
考慮限制式，(iii)僅一個階層的序的最佳化
方法可能無法在計算時間及所得解的品質
兩方面同時得到較佳的效果。 
基於以上所述的傳統的序的最佳化理
論應用在解具巨大解集的有限制式的組合
最佳化問題時所呈現的不足處。我們所提
出多階層序的最佳化方法(multi-level 
ordinal optimization)以克服上面所指出的
原方法不恰當的三個地方。意即針對缺點
(i),我們將設計一個約化模式以及 global 
searching 的方法從巨大解集中挑出不錯的
小子集。針對缺點(ii)，我們將在尋求不錯
小子集過程中將限制式列入考量。針對缺
點(iii)，我們的多階層序的最佳化方法所使
用的約化模式將一層較一層精緻。 
 
 
二、研究目的 
 
工業界中，充斥著具巨大解集的有限
制式組合最佳化問題。例如我們所擬探討
的問題是一個 OFDM 系統中的 Adaptive 
Subcarrier Assignment and Bit  Allocation 
(ASABA) 以 使  power consumption 最 
minimum 的問題，這個研究問題是一個有
限制式非線性的整數規劃問題(nonlinear 
integer programming)所以也是一個有限制
式的組合最佳化問題。針對這樣的問題，
Wong et al.在 1999 年時提出一個 MAO 
scheme [4]，他們先將整數規劃問題轉換成
一個 continuous variable 的 optimization 問
題來解，在得到 continuous variable 的
optimal solution後直接將其 offset到最接近
的 integer solution。這樣做有兩大缺點，其
一為不知 offset 後的 solution 是否為
feasible，因為這個問題是有 constraint 的，
其二為即使 feasible 也無法確定所得的解
到底有多好，大概只能靠模擬來與其他的
方法比較。 
這篇文章出來後，Kim et al. [5]批評
Wong 他們的方法需要太多的計算時間而
不符合 real-time的應用需求，於是Kim et al. 
[5]，Ergen et al. [6]及 Zhang [7]都提出了計
算 快 速 的 方 法 以 達 到 到 real-time 
application 的目的，但他們求得的 power 
consumption 都不如 Wong 他們所得到的結
果。針對這些現存的方法的缺點，我們已
在上年度計畫中提出多階層序的最佳化方
法來解此問題。雖然我們的成果已發表於
IEEE Trans. On Vehicular Technology，但在
這個成果中，我們在第一階層的序的最佳
化方法中用超大型積體電路來 implement
所研擬的 DPG method 以求得 ASABA 問
題的 continuous optimal solution。要製成這
超大型積體電路實非短時間可以完成，因
此它離商業用途尚有一段距離。 
為了克服前述方法的不易實現的缺
點，我們在此計畫中，研究出在第ㄧ階層
中，設計一個融合 ASABA 的基因演算法，
直接將限制式列入考慮以求得不錯的小子
集，然後再進行第二及第三階層的序的最
佳化。 
由以上所述可知我們的研究係在針對
困難且重要的工業界問題提出一個有效率
的求解方法。 
 
三、文獻探討 
 
在序的最佳化方法的研究以哈佛大學
的何毓琦教授為泰斗[1],[2],[3]，而
George Mason 大學的陳俊宏教授[2]，台灣
大學的張時中教授等在這方面亦有相當的
成果。關於 Multiuser OFDM 系統的
subcarrier assignment跟bit allocation
是目前相當熱門的研究主題，香港大學的
Wong教授[4]、加大柏克萊分校的Varyaiya
教授[6]、韓國的 Kim 教授[5]皆是此領域
的翹楚。而竹科中也有甚多公司從事 OFDM
相關的硬體製作，它其實是一個很有發展
前景的領域。而本人在序的最佳化方法的
研究亦已浸淫多年[8]-[11]。 
 
四、研究方法 
 
(1) 問題敘述 
 2
 4
六、參考文獻 
[1] Ho, Y.C. (1999). An explanation of 
ordinal optimization: Soft computing for 
hard problems. Information Sciences, vol. 
113, no.3-4, pp. 169-192. 
[2] Ho, Y.C., Cassandras, C.C., Chen, C.H., 
and Dai, L., “Ordinal optimization and  
simulation,” Journal of Operation 
Research Society, vol. 21, pp. 490-500, 
2000. 
[3] Lau, T.W.E. and Ho, Y.C., “Universal 
alignment probability and subset 
selection for ordinal optimization,” JOTA, 
vol. 39, no. 3, June 1997. 
[4] Wong, C.Y., Cheng, R.S., Letaief, K.B., 
and Murch, R. D., “Multiuser OFDM 
with adaptive subcarrier, bit, and power 
allocation,” IEEE J. Select. Areas 
Commun., vol. 17, pp. 1747–1758, Oct. 
1999. 
[5] Kim, I., Lee, H.L., Kim, B. and Lee, Y.H. 
“On the use of linear programming for 
dynamic subchannel and bit allocation in 
multiuser OFDM,” in IEEE 
GLOBECOM ’01, vol. 6, 2001, pp. 
3648–3652. 
[6] Ergen, M., Coleri, S., and Varaiya, P., 
QoS Aware Adaptive Resource Allocation 
Techniques for Fair Scheduling in 
OFDMA Based. Broadband Wireless 
Access  Systems, IEEE Transactions on 
Broadcasting, vol. 49 no.4, December 
2003, pp.362-370. 
[7] Zhang, Guodong ,“Subcarrier and bit 
allocation for real-time services in 
multiuser OFDM systems” IEEE 
Communication Society 2004. 
[8] Lin, C.-H. and Lin, S.-Y., “A new 
dual-type method used in solving optimal  
power flow problems.” IEEE Trans. on 
Power Systems, vol.12, pp.1667-1675,  
Nov. 1997. 
[9] Lin, S.-Y. and Ho, Y.C., “Universal 
alignment probability revisited,” JOTA, 
pp.299-407, May 2002. 
[10] Lin, S.-Y., Y.C. Ho, and C.-H. Lin 
(2004). An ordinal optimization theory 
based algorithm for solving the optimal 
power flow problem with discrete control 
variables. IEEE Transactions on Power 
System, vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 276-286. 
[11] Lin, S.-Y. and  Horng, S.-C., 
“Application of an ordinal optimization 
algorithm to the wafer testing process,” 
accepted by the IEEE Trans. on Systems, 
Man and Cybernetics, Part A, vol. 36, no. 
6, pp. 1229-1334, Nov. 2006.  
 
七、計劃成果自評 
本計劃僅執行了 1 年，但已發表了一
篇期刊論文。成果堪稱豐碩。 
 
 
LIN and HUANG: A COMPUTATIONALLY EFFICIENT METHOD FOR LARGE DIMENSION SUBCARRIER ASSIGNMENT
3967
conventional performance evaluation of a discrete solution,
our approach is based on OO theory to solve the considered
problem for a good enough solution with high probability
using limited computation time.
Our approach consists of three OO stages. First of all,
we will reformulate the considered problem to separate it
into subcarrier assignment and bit allocation problem such
that the objective function of a feasible subcarrier assign-
ment pattern is the corresponding optimal bit allocation for
minimizing the total consumed power. Then, in the first
stage, we will develop an easy-to-evaluate approximate ob-
jective function to estimate the objective value of a subcar-
rier assignment pattern and employ a GA to search through
the huge discrete solution space to find the top s subcarrier
assignment patterns based on the estimated objective values.
In the meantime, a subtle representation scheme and a repair
operator for GA need be designed to handle the constraints
of the considered problem. In the second stage, we use an
oﬀ-line trained Artificial Neural Network (ANN) to estimate
the objective values of the s subcarrier assignment patterns
obtained in stage 1 and pick the top l patterns based on the
estimated objective value. In the third stage, we use the ex-
act objective function to evaluate the l subcarrier assignment
patterns obtained in stage 2, and the best one associated with
the corresponding optimal bit allocation is the good enough
solution that we seek. In the proposed three-stage approach,
the models employed to evaluate a solution are varying from
very rough (stage 1) to exact (stage 3). In the meantime, the
candidate solution space is reduced from the original huge
solution space (stage 1) to only l candidate solutions (stage
3). In general, a more accurate approximate objective func-
tion will take more time to evaluate a solution; however as
can be seen from our three-stage approach, when a more
accurate approximate objective function is used, the search
space is already reduced considerably, and the computation
time is largely reduced accordingly.
Our paper is organized in the following manner. In
Sect. 2, we will state the considered problem and its refor-
mulation. In Sect. 3, we will present our three OO stages to
solve the considered problem. In Sect. 4, we will apply our
algorithm to numerous large-dimension ASABA cases and
compare with some existing algorithms in the aspects of so-
lution quality and computation time. Finally, we will draw
a conclusion in Sect. 5.
2. Problem Statement and Reformulation
2.1 Problem Statement
As shown in Fig. 1, we assume that the system has K users
to share N subcarriers. Each user’s data rate request will
be allocated to a nonoverlapping set of subcarriers and dis-
tributed among them. It is also assumed that a subcarrier
cannot be shared by more than one user.
In the transmitter part of Fig. 1, the serial data from
K users are fed into the block represented by the proposed
ASABA algorithm. The algorithm will be executed in every
Fig. 1 Block diagram of a multiuser OFDM system with subcarrier
assignment and bit allocation.
allocating period to assign the set of subcarriers to each user
and the number of bits to be transmitted on each assigned
subcarrier based on the updated channel information of all
users. Then proper modulation scheme and transformation
scheme will be used to transform the assigned bits into time
domain samples, which will be transmitted to the receivers
by diﬀerent frequency selective fading channels to diﬀerent
users as shown in Fig. 1.
We assume the subcarrier assignment and bit allocation
information is sent to the receivers via a separate control
channel. For the sake of simplicity, we only show the re-
ceiver part of one user in Fig. 1. The received time domain
samples of the kth user is transformed back and demodu-
lated to bits from the subcarriers assigned to the kth user
based on the subcarrier assignment and bit allocation infor-
mation.
In this paper, we focus on proposing a computationally
eﬃcient method, the ASABA algorithm, to solve the follow-
ing ASABA problem of the multiuser OFDM system† for a
good enough feasible solution.
min
ck,n,ρk,n
PT
⎛⎜⎜⎜⎜⎜⎝=
N∑
n=1
K∑
k=1
ρk,n
α2k,n
fk(ck,n)
⎞⎟⎟⎟⎟⎟⎠
subject to 0 ≤ ck,n ≤ M, for all k, n,
Rk =
N∑
n=1
ρk,nck,n, k = 1, . . . ,K,
K∑
k=1
ρk,n = 1, n = 1, . . . ,N,
ρk,n ∈ {0, 1}, for all k and n (1)
where K denotes the number of users in the system that con-
†There are two types of formulations on this issue. One is the
Margin Adaptive (MA) optimization, whose formulation is (1), and
the other is the Rate Adaptive (RA) optimization, which maximizes
the data rate under a power constraint [2]. Kim et al. had shown in
[2] that the RA optimization problem can be solved via recursive
MA optimization.
LIN and HUANG: A COMPUTATIONALLY EFFICIENT METHOD FOR LARGE DIMENSION SUBCARRIER ASSIGNMENT
3969
is to assume that the solution of (1) exists. Since (5) is equiv-
alent to (1), the assumption (2) should also apply to (5) to
assume the solution of (5) exists. It should be noted that no
additional assumption is needed to derive (5) from (1). Fur-
thermore, the decomposition of the objective function of (5),
i.e. the term inside the big bracket of (5), into (6) has nothing
to do with the assumption (2). This decomposition simply
says that for a given feasible ρ, the optimal bit allocation for
individual user is independent of each other.
3. The Three-Stage Ordinal Optimization (OO) Appro-
ach — The ASABA Algorithm
The proposed ASABA algorithm for solving (5), or (1)
equivalently, consists of three OO stages as stated in the fol-
lowing.
3.1 Stage 1: Using GA to Select Top s Subcarrier Assign-
ment Patterns Based on an Easy-to-Evaluate Approxi-
mate Objective Function
As shown in (6) that the objective function of (5) for a given
feasible ρ can be decomposed into K independent optimal
bit allocation subproblems. We let Nk =
∑N
n=1 ρk,n and αˆk
=
∑N
n=1 ρk,nαk,n
Nk denote the total number of subcarriers assigned
to and the average power consumption coeﬃcient of user k,
respectively. Then, we use the following to approximate the
optimal power consumed by user k, i.e. the optimal objec-
tive value of (6), for the given ρ. We assume the total data
rate request Rk of user k are distributed equally to the as-
signed Nk subcarriers, i.e. setting ck,n = RkNk for each assigned
subcarrier, and assume each of the Nk subcarriers has the
same power consumption coeﬃcient αˆk defined above, then
the power consumed by user k, denoted by ˆPk, can be com-
puted by ˆPk = Nkαˆ2k fk(
Rk
Nk ). Consequently, we can obtain the
approximate total consumed power for the given ρ, denoted
by ˆPT , by calculating ˆPT =
∑K
k=1 ˆPk, which will serve as the
approximate objective function of (5).
Then, to use GA as a global searching technique, we
need to define a representation scheme to map all ρ that sat-
isfy ρk,n ∈ {0, 1} and ∑Kk=1 ρk,n = 1 into a set of chromosomes
first [7], [12, Ch.14]. Let the alphabet of the representation
scheme be the set {1, 2, . . . ,K}. We define the chromosome
u as a string of N symbols, u1, u2, . . . , uN , such that the nth
symbol un, which takes an element from the alphabet, indi-
cates the user that subcarrier n is assigned to. In other words,
un = k1 means ρk1,n = 1 and ρk,n = 0 for all k  k1. This
representation scheme ensures that ρk,n ∈ {0, 1} and satisfies∑K
k=1 ρk,n = 1, because un taking only one element from the
alphabet implies that the nth subcarrier can at most be as-
signed to one user. However not all chromosomes u can
satisfy the inequality constraints M
∑N
n=1 ρk,n ≥ Rk required
in (5). The required number of subcarriers for user k to meet
the inequality constraint is at least
⌈
Rk
M
⌉
. We define δk(un) =
1 if un = k and 0, otherwise. Thus, the number of subcarri-
ers assigned to user k in a chromosome u is ∑Nn=1 δk(un). To
meet the inequality constraint, the following has to hold
N∑
n=1
δk(un) ≥
⌈Rk
M
⌉
(7)
We define σk(u) = ∑Nn=1 δk(un) −
⌈
Rk
M
⌉
, then σk(u) ≥ 0
implies the number of subcarriers assigned to user k is
enough or surplus, and σk(u) < 0 implies the other way.
Therefore, for a given u we can compute σk(u) for k =
1, . . . ,K and order them in an ascending sequence σk1 (u) ≤
σk2 (u) ≤ . . .≤ σkK (u), where the ordered indices k1, . . . , kK ∈
{1, . . . ,K}, and we have no order preference for the k’s with
same values of σk(u). Thus σk1 (u) ≥ 0 implies u satisfies
(7) for all k and is feasible.
Suppose σk1 (u) < 0, then u is infeasible. Such an
infeasibility problem may occur to any newly generated
chromosomes, resulted from initial population generation,
crossover operations, and mutation operations, and can be
resolved by a repair operator, which is designed to recover
the infeasible chromosome to a feasible one as stated in the
following. Under the assumption that we have enough sub-
carriers to meet all users’ data rate request, (2), ifσk1 (u) < 0,
there must exist i such that σk1 (u) ≤ . . . ≤ σki (u) < 0,
σkK (u) ≥ . . . ≥ σki+1 (u) ≥ 0, and σki+1 (u) + . . . + σkK (u) ≥
−(σk1 (u) + . . . + σki (u)). Thus, we can reassign the surplus
subcarriers of users ki+1, . . . , kK to users k1, . . . , ki in the fol-
lowing manner. Randomly pick the surplus subcarriers that
were assigned to user kK to make up the insuﬃcient sub-
carriers required by k1, that is randomly pick an um from all
um’s with um = kK , and reset the picked um as um = k1. When
all surplus subcarriers of user kK are reassigned, we pro-
ceed with picking the surplus subcarriers of user kK−1 and
so forth. Similarly, when the number of insuﬃcient subcar-
riers of user k1 is made up, we proceed with making up the
insuﬃcient subcarriers of user k2 and so forth. The above
process will continue until the number of insuﬃcient sub-
carriers of user ki is made up. Then the resulting u will be
feasible. Based on this repair operator, we may describe the
employed GA to solve (5) in the following.
We randomly generate I, say 200, chromosomes such
that each symbol of each chromosome is assigned by an
element randomly selected from the alphabet, {1, . . . ,K},
and apply the repair operator to them. The resulting I
feasible chromosomes will serve as the initial population
of the employed GA. To evaluate the fitness of a chromo-
some u based on the above mentioned approximate total
power consumption, we first compute Nk(u) = ∑Nn=1 δk(un),
αˆk(u) =
∑N
n=1 δk(un)αk,n
Nk(u) , and ˆPk(u) =
Nk(u)
αˆ2k
fk( RkNk(u) ) for every k =
1, . . . ,K. Then, the fitness of u will be 1
ˆPT (u) , where
ˆPT (u)
=
∑K
k=1 ˆPk(u). Based on the fitness values of all chromo-
somes in the population pool, we use roulette wheel selec-
tion scheme to select chromosomes into the mating pool,
from which we select chromosomes to serve as the parents
for crossover. The probability that a chromosome is selected
as a parent is pc, say 0.7.
We apply a single point crossover scheme to the se-
LIN and HUANG: A COMPUTATIONALLY EFFICIENT METHOD FOR LARGE DIMENSION SUBCARRIER ASSIGNMENT
3971
4. Test Results and Comparisons
In this section, we will demonstrate the performance of the
proposed ASABA algorithm on solving the large-dimension
ASABA problem (5), which is equivalent to (1), in the as-
pects of solution quality and computational eﬃciency by
comparing with other algorithms. We assume the OFDM
system has 256 subcarriers (i.e. N = 256), which can carry
two, four, and six bits/symbol; therefore in this system M =
6. We adopt the following approximate formula employed
in [1]–[4] for the fk(c) in the transmission power fk(c)α2k,n shown
in the objective function of (1):
fk(c) = N03
[
Q−1
(Pe
4
)]2
(2c − 1) (8)
where Q−1(x) is the inverse function of
Q(x) = 1√
2π
∫ ∞
x
e
−t2
2 dt (9)
Pe denotes Bit Error Rate (BER) and N0 denotes the noise
Power Spectral Density (PSD) level, and we set Pe = 10−4
and N0 = 10−12 watt in the following simulations.
We use a frequency-selective channel consisting of
six independent Rayleigh multipaths to model the wire-
less transmission channel, and each multipath is modeled
by Clark’s flat fading model [17]. We assumed that the
power delay profile is exponentially decaying with e−2p,
where p = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 denote the multipath index.
Hence, the related power of the six multipath components
are 0 dB, −8.69 dB, −17.37 dB, −26.06 dB, −34.74 dB, and
−43.43 dB. We also assume the average subcarrier channel
gain E
∣∣∣αk,n∣∣∣2 is unity for all k and n. Based on the above as-
sumptions, we can generate power consumption coeﬃcients
αk,n, k = 1, . . . ,K, n = 1, . . . ,N, using MATLAB for our
simulations.
We consider cases of various number of users for
K=10, 20, 30, 40, and 50. For each K, we assume a fixed
total data rate request RT=1024 bits/symbol and randomly
generate Rk, k = 1, . . . ,K, based on the constraint
∑K
k=1 Rk =
RT . For each K and the associated R, we randomly generate
5000 sets of αk,n, k = 1, . . . ,K, n = 1, . . . ,N, based on the
above mentioned power consumption coeﬃcient generation
process and denote αi as the ith set in the 5000. With the
above test setup, we apply our algorithm to solve (1) on a
Pentium 2.4 GHz processor and 512 Mbytes RAM PC. We
also apply the more global-like mathematical programming
based approaches proposed by Wong et al. and Kim et al. in
[1] and [2], respectively, and the more local-like two-module
scheme and two-step subcarrier assignment approaches pro-
posed by Ergen et al. and Zhang in [3] and [4], respectively,
to the same test cases on the same PC. For the purpose of
comparison, we can use the average bit Signal-to-Noise Ra-
tio (abSNR) to replace PT , because abSNR is defined as the
ratio of the average transmit power, PTRT , to the noise PSD
level N0. As we have assumed that all the data rates per
Fig. 2 The abS NR for K =10, 20, 30, 40 and 50 obtained by the five
algorithms.
symbol are fixed at RT , and the N0 is just a constant, thus PT
is proportional to abSNR.
Remark 5: As shown in (8), PT consists of the term N0.
Therefore, the magnitude of N0 employed in our tests is not
relevant to the results of abSNR, because the term N0 will be
cancelled out as noted in the definition of abSNR.
For each K with the associated vector R, we denote
abS NR(αi) as the resulted abSNR when αi is used and cal-
culate abS NR =
∑5000
i=1 abS NR(αi)
5000 , where abS NR denotes the
average of the 5000 abSNR’s for a given K. The resulted
abS NR for each K and each algorithm are shown in Fig. 2.
Form Fig. 2, we see that the abS NR obtained by our
algorithm, which are marked by “
,” is smallest among all
algorithms. Moreover, the result obtained by our algorithm
is even better when the number of users increases as can be
observed from Fig. 2.
Remark 6: The quality of the solution obtained by the
approach proposed by Wong et al. in [1] is excellent and has
been used as a comparing standard in most of the literature
regarding ASABA problems [2], [4], [5]. We also manifest
the quality of their solution in our simulations as shown in
Fig. 2. The reason that supports their solution’s excellent
quality is their global-like mathematical programming based
approach as indicated in Sect. 1. They first employed a La-
grangian relaxation method to solve the continuous version
of the ASABA problem then rounded the optimal contin-
uous subcarrier assignment solution oﬀ to the closest inte-
ger solution. Such an arbitrarily rounding oﬀ may cause
possible infeasibility and not theoretically guarantee to ob-
tain a good solution, especially when the dimension of the
ASABA problem is large. Dislike their approach, we handle
the discrete solution space directly. In the first stage of our
approach, our specially designed GA, which associates with
a surrogate model for fast fitness evaluation, search through
the whole feasible solution space to find some good feasi-
ble subcarrier assignment patterns. Thus, our approach is
also global-like and will not cause any infeasibility problem.
Then in the second and third stages, we use the ANN and
