1 
應用資料探勘方法於貨架指派問題之研究 
The Study of Applying Data Mining Methods for Solving Shelf 
Allocation Problems 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 98-2221-E-155-16 
執 行 期 限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：蔡介元   元智大學 工業工程與管理學系 
計畫參與人員：陳致融、簡君如、鍾尚弦、張惠婷、李文仁   元智大學 工
業工程與管理學系 
一、中文摘要 
在競爭激烈的零售業中，要將種類繁多的產品陳列在有限的貨架空間上，對賣場管理者
而言是一件十分重要且繁重的工作。不同的產品組合和貨架擺列方式，會直接影響到消費者
的目光、注意力、及購買時的決策，當然也就顯著地影響到零售商的獲利。因此，如何將產
品項目分配到有限的貨架空間(貨架指派)，就成為零售業中一個非常重要的問题。本研究提
出一個兩階段的貨架指派方法，在第一階段所提出的方法中依據產品類別的相關性資訊使用
模擬退火演算法來將產品配置於貨架空間上。在第二個階段中，本研究以產品項目被採購的
相似性資訊使用模擬退火法將各個產品類別底下的產品指派到貨架空間上。此外，在兩階段
貨架指派方法中分別提出產品類別和產品項目指派順序演算法。藉由提出的初始指派順序演
算法以求得較佳的初始解以加快模擬退火法求解的收斂速度來提高求解效率。 
關鍵詞：零售業、貨架指派、指派順序、採購關聯性、模擬退火演算法 
 
Abstract 
In competitive retailing store markets, it is an important but heavy work for store managers to 
arrange different product items into finite shelf space. Different item combination and shelf 
displaying strategies will significantly affect customers’ attention, purchasing decision, and 
retailer’s profit. Therefore, how to allocate items into finite shelf spaces (shelf allocation) become a 
very critical issue in retailing business. In this plan, a two-stage shelf allocation method is proposed. 
In the first stage, product categories are located into the shelf spaces based on their category affinity 
using simulated annealing (SA) algorithm. In the second stage, for each product category, product 
types are allocated into shelf space based on the product type purchasing association information 
using SA algorithm. To speed up the converge speed of the SA algorithm. We proposed Product 
Category Assignment Sequence (PCAS) algorithm and Product Type Assignment Sequence (PTAS) 
algorithm in this research. The product category and product type assignment sequences are derived 
as better initial solutions of the SA algorithms by PCAS and PTAS algorithms.  
Keywords: Retailing Stores, Shelf Allocation, Assignment Sequence, Purchasing Association, 
Simulated Annealing Algorithms. 
3 
heuristic algorithm with initial solution setting is developed to increase the solving quality and 
decrease convergence speed.  
三、應用資料探勘方法於貨架指派問題 
The following three steps are conducted the proposed shelf allocation method. The first step is 
to conduct the required shelf space analysis for all product types and product categories. The second 
step is to determine shelf space locations according to category information. The third step is to 
decide the shelf allocation for product types in product type level in the same category. The 
proposed research framework is summarized in Fig. 1. 
Merchandise and 
shelf database
To  construct the required 
shelf space
To locate the shelf space 
of product category
To construct the product 
category affinity matrix
To allocate the shelf 
space of product type
To create  association 
clustering tree 
Retailer's trade 
database
To develop the optimum 
of shelf allocation for 
retail store
To adopt SA algorithm to 
solve location problem 
and allocation problem
 
Fig. 1 The overview of the proposed research framework. 
3.1 Merchandise Classification and Shelf Space Requirement Analysis 
The shelves are separated by aisles and each shelf has five layers. Fig. 2(a) is the retail store 
layout displayed in two dimensions, while Fig. 2(b) shows shelves displayed in three dimensions 
where every cell represents a unit shelf space. The cells are numbered mainly according to the 
column of the shelf. In the first column of the shelf, cells are numbered from up to down, and then 
in the second column cells are numbered from up to down. Next, in the third column cells are 
numbered from up to down, and so on. Generally, a retail store layout can be divided into two areas 
as shown in Fig. 2(a). Area A, located at the main traffic flow, displays main merchandises. Area B, 
located at inner retail store, displays complementary merchandises. 
5 
1
( / )
i
N
T i i
i
r v v U

  , i = 1, 2, …, N;                                    (2) 
where 
iT
r is the required shelf space of product type iT . iv is the sales volume of product type 
iT . U is the total shelf space. 
2. For product category level 
The required shelf space for the product category kC  are evaluated by Equation (3). 
k i
i k
C T
T C
r r

  , k = 1, 2, …, M;                                          (3) 
where 
kC
r is the required shelf space of the product category kC . 
 The average profit per shelf space for product type i, ip , is evaluated by Equation (4). 
 ( - ) / ,     1, 2,  ...,  
ii i i i T
p s c v r i N                                       (4) 
where is is the selling price of product type iT . ic is the purchasing cost of product type iT .      
iv  is the sales volume of product type iT . 
In addition, the space sale profit for a product category is derived by average profit per shelf 
space in the product category. Let C = { 1 2, ,..., MC C C } be the set of product categories, where M is 
the total number of the product category. The average profit per shelf space for category k, kPC , is 
evaluated by Equation (5). 
 (( - ) ) / ,     1, 2,  ...,  
k
i k
k i i i C
T C
PC s c v r i N

   , k = 1, 2, …, M;                (5) 
where 
kC
r is the required shelf space for the product category kC . 
3.2 The Formulation for the Shelf Allocation Problem 
Let A=[ ,i ja ] be the affinity matrix describing the affinity relationship between categories 
where ,i ja  denote the affinity value between categories i and j. If affinity value between two 
categories is less than 0 and greater than -1, then the affinity between the two categories is adverse. 
If affinity value is 0 between two categories, then the affinity between the two categories is 
indifferent. As affinity value between two categories is less than 1 and greater than 0, then the 
affinity between two is affine.  
 In addition, calculating distance between two product categories is utilized the product types of 
distance between two categories. The smallest distance between for all cell soaces in category i and 
all items in category j as shown in Equation (6) 
,
     , 
i j
ij ghg C h C
D Min d i j
 
                                               (6) 
Locating product categories into shelves can be formulated as the objective function in 
Equation (7). One objective of the model is to maximize the sales profit, and meanwhile the 
objective is to maximize the affinity of every two product categories. Equation (8) is the constraint 
7 
shelf space for the product type iT . jp  is the average profit per shelf space for product type jT . 
igc  ：
0,    the location of the shelf space  is not selected for the product type ;
1,    the location of the shelf space  is selected for the product type ;
i
i
g T
g T

 
jhc  ：
0,    the location of the shelf space h  is not selected for the product type ;
1,    the location of the shelf space h  is selected for the product type ;
j
j
T
T

 


| 1      , 1, 2, ..., 
| 1      ,  1, 2,  ...,
i igg U
i igg U
F max g c i N
E min g c i N


  
  
 
( ,  )i jS T T is the support of product type iT  and product type jT  and can be evaluated using 
Equation (15). 
     ( ,  ) ( ,  ) /i j i jS T T P T T T                                  (15) 
where iT  and jT  are the typeset, ( ,  )i jP T T  is the appearing frequency of iT  and jT  in all 
transactions, |T| is the total record in transaction database. 
3.3 Shelf Allocation using Simulated Annealing Algorithms 
3.3.1 The SA algorithm for the Shelf Location of Product Categories 
 The shelf space allocation problem discussed in this research includes two optimization 
problems. To solve the two problems, this research uses SA algorithms. First, the simulated 
annealing algorithm for the shelf location of product categories is described as follows: 
1. The coding scheme 
The shelf spaces in the retail store are encoded in grids of the SA algorithm. Each grid represents a 
unique shelf space location in the store. The content of a grid will be the product category number. 
The total number of grids will be equal to the total number of cell spaces been allocated. Note that 
each product category could occupy more than one shelf space according to the required shelf 
spaces calculated in Equation (3).  
2. The initial parameters 
The parameters used in SA algorithm are defined as follows: 
T0 : initial temperature TF: terminated temperature (T0 >TF and T0, TF0) 
Tcurrent: current temperature  : cooling rate 
t: number of move tmax: maximum number of moves 
The initial temperature T0 should yield an initial acceptance rate of at least 80% (Kirkpatrick et 
al. 1983). Therefore, the initial temperature is set to 100 in this research. The terminated 
temperature TF usually set as the value not less than zero degrees. Kirkpatrick et al. (1983) 
9 
in product category assignment sequence Seq to swap. Next, for each product category in Seq, we 
will obtain how many cell spaces in the product category and then add the desired of the product 
category into the grids. 
5. Acceptance probability 
After deriving neighborhood solution PCt the algorithm needs to decide whether to accept this 
neighborhood solution or not. Let the change in the objective function value from PT* to PCt, be 
defined as ΔEc = E(PCt )-E(PC*) where E( ) denotes the objective function value of solution, refer 
to Equation (7). If ΔEc＞0, the neighborhood solution PCt is better than the current best solution 
PC*. Therefore, PC*= PCt . Oppositely, if ΔEc 0, the algorithm will produce a random number D 
ranging from 0 to 1 and compare the random number D with a predefined acceptance probability 
PAC . The acceptance probability PAC  is calculated as exp(-ΔEc/Tcurrent) where Tcurrent is the current 
temperature. If PAC > D, then this neighborhood solution is kept and assigned as current solution 
PC’. That is,  PC’= PCt. Otherwise, if PAC   D the neighborhood solution PCt will not be 
accepted. If t does not reach the maximum number of moves tmax then the algorithm will goes to 
back step 4 and generate another new neighborhood solution. 
6. Cooling rate 
The cooling rate   is the ratio of reduction from the former temperature to the new 
temperature. The new temperature will be calculated using the following equation: 
current currentT T  
7. Stopping criterion 
If current temperature Tcurrent less than or equal to a predetermined terminated temperature (TF), the 
SA algorithm will stop; otherwise, goes back to step 4. After the stopping criterion is reached, the 
shelf space location for product category will be decoded.  
3.3.2 The SA Algorithm for the Shelf Allocation of Product Types 
The proposed simulated annealing algorithm for the shelf allocation of product types is 
described as follows: 
1. The coding scheme 
The coding scheme of product type is the same as product category. The content of a grid is the 
product type number. The total of grids will be equal to the total of each certain product type been 
located cell spaces. Note that each product type could occupy more than one shelf space according 
to required shelf spaces calculated in Equation (2). 
2. The initial parameters 
  The parameters in this SA algorithm are defined and set as the same way as introduced in 
section 3.3.1. 
3. Initial solutions 
The sequence of assigning product types to grids is obtained using PTAS algorithm for product 
11 
there are twenty-six product categories and seventy-one product types, which are chosen from 
Product_class and Product data tables. Every product category contains at least one product type, 
and every product type has at least one item sold. Besides, 3,374 transactions records are retrieved 
from Sale_Fat_1998 data table. Besides, in the retail store, all items are allowed to put into the shelf 
and their size is not larger than unit space size of shelf. In this example, there are three hundred 
eighty shelf spaces and four aisles. Every shelf has five layers and each layer has seven shelf spaces. 
Fig. 4 shows the weights for every cell of the retail store in the case. 
 
Fig. 4 The retail store layout displayed in 3D and the weights for every cell. 
The research objective is to improve the solution quality using the proposed two-stage shelf 
allocation method. In addition, adopting the initial solution can improve the computation efficiency 
when solving the shelf allocation problem. Therefore, the comparison between solution quality and 
computation time adopting random method and adopting PCAS and PTAS algorithms are 
demonstrated with performance measurement. Fig 5 shows the fitness values adopting PCAS 
algorithm and the fitness values adopting random method in product category level. The p-value in 
the ANOVA analysis for these two scenarios is 0.002122 (< 0.05). That is, the difference between 
the fitness values of the two scenarios is significant. Therefore, the result of using the proposed 
shelf location method at product category level adopting PCAS algorithm is significantly better than 
the result without adopting initial solution. 
250000
275000
300000
325000
350000
375000
400000
425000
1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29
PCAS Random
Fi
tn
es
s  v
al
ue
Experiment  number
 
Fig. 5 The fitness values adopting PCAS algorithm and adopting random method process 
Finally, according to the result of the shelf allocation, the best shelf location of the product 
category level appears when the fitness value is 414259.494. Furthermore, the product categories 
are located into the shelf spaces according to the result of shelf allocation sequence and the required 
shelf spaces of every product type. Fig. 6 shows the shelf location for product category level. 
13 
5000
5050
5100
5150
5200
5250
1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29
Case 1 Case 2 Case 3 Case 4
Experiment  number
co
m
pu
ta
tio
n
tim
e (
se
c)
 
Fig. 8 The computation time for the four cases 
Beside the above analysis, it is clear that the solution quality and the computation time can be 
significantly improved when adopting PTAS algorithm at product type level. Finally, according to 
the above analysis and the result of the shelf allocation, the best shelf location of the product 
category level appears when the fitness value is 414259.494. Under this situation, the best shelf 
allocation of the product type level appears when the fitness value is 779738.636. Furthermore, the 
product types are allocated into the shelf spaces according to the result of shelf allocation sequence 
and the required shelf spaces of every product type. Fig. 9 shows the shelf location for product type 
level. 
 
Fig. 9 The shelf allocation for product type level 
五、結論 
In this research, the shelf allocation problems using proposed a two-stage method can avoid 
the shortcomings of previous studies. The proposed two-stage shelf space allocation method takes 
many important points into consideration which are the customer buying behavior, the important 
weights of shelf spaces, the product category affinity, and purchasing association between product 
types. That is, the result of using proposed two-stage shelf allocation method so that can be suitably 
reflected the real situation of retailing stores. In addition, the result of stage one can be obtained 
better shelf location of product category and it ensures the maximum affinity of every two product 
categories is located adjacent. Next, we can derive better shelf allocation of product type and it 
ensures the maximum support of every two product types is allocated adjacent in stage two through 
the proposed two-stage shelf allocation method in this study. Besides, in the stage one, it is clear 
that the case of adopting PCAS algorithm has the better performance in fitness value and 
computation times when comparing to the case of adopting random method. Next, in the second 
stage (product type level), the experiment results show when adopting PCAS algorithm in the 
product category level and adopting PTAS algorithm product type level the performance of the 
15 
[14]  Van Nierop, E., Fok, D., Franses, P.H., “Interaction between shelf layout and marketing and its impact on 
optimizing shelf arrangements”, Marketing Science, 27(6), pp.1065-1082, 2008 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他
協助產業技術發展
之具體效益事項
等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
研究成果已發表於： 
Tsai, Chieh-Yuan and Wu, Ming-Chang, ＇Applying a two-stage simulated 
annealing algorithm for shelf space allocation problems,＇ The 2010 
International Conference of Manufacturing Engineering and Engineering 
Management (ICMEEM'10), London, U.K., pp. 2376-2380, 30 June - 2 July, 2010. 
[EI] (ISSN: 2078-0958, ISBN: 978-988-18210-8-9) 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
