1 
 
針對3D整合之電子設計自動化技術開發 
子計畫四：立體堆疊晶片與系統級構裝之設計最佳化研究(2/2) 
3D-SIC and 3D-SIP Design Planning 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2220-E-009-038 
執行期間：99 年 8 月 1 日 至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：陳宏明 
一、中文摘要 
 
超大型積體電路設計日益複雜，加上奈米效應使得晶片與封裝的設計變得更
加困難，因此電子設計自動化產品也必需不斷的進步以符合時代的需求。在先進
設計與堆疊晶片設計中，覆晶封裝(flip-chip)具有低設計成本的優點，但通常
需要利用重新分配層(Redistribution layer, RDL)繞線來連接 IO訊號線。有時
RDL繞線非常的擁擠，即使用人工繞線仍無法與一層中完成。在此報告中，我們
提出虛擬單層(pseudo single-layer)繞線的概念。此方法可以考慮封裝設計以
及堆疊晶片的設計問題。利用啟發式演算法，將問題轉換成channel繞線的形式，
極小化繞線所需的面積，並達到百分之百的繞線完成度。與手動繞線、商業用工
具等的結果作比較，我們的方法應用在實際工業設計上相當有效。 
 
關鍵詞：三維度積體電路；封裝設計；flip-chip繞線 
 
二、英文摘要 
 
Due to the advantage of flip-chip design in power distribution but controversial 
peripheral IO placement for lower design cost, redistribution layer (RDL) is usually 
used for such interconnection. Sometimes RDL is so congested that the capacity for 
routing is insufficient. Routing therefore cannot be completed within a single layer 
even for manual routing. Although [2] proposed a routing algorithm that uses two 
layers of RDLs, but in practice the required routing area is a little more than one layer. 
We overcome this problem by adopting the concept of pseudo single-layer. With the 
heuristics for routing on mapped channels and observations on staggered pins to 
3 
 
 
Fig. 2. Research map of previous works. Free-assignment (FA) and preassignment (PA) are 2 
methods for pad assignment. Peripheral-IO (PIO) and area-IO (AIO) are 2 flip-chip structures. 
In this work, we focus on PIO-PA problem. 
 
 Previous works can be classified into 4 types based on the flip-chip structures 
and pad assignment methods. A research map proposed by [3] is shown in Fig. 2. Two 
pad assignment methods, free-assignment (FA) and pre-assignment (PA), represent 
whether the mapping between bump pads and IO pads is given as input. For FA 
problems, each IO pad is free to assign to any bump pad, so assignment is considered 
together with routing. For PA problems, each IO pad must connect with the specified 
bump pad, therefore solving complex crossings is the focus. Consequently, PA 
problems are more difficult than FA ones but more convenient for designers. Two 
flip-chip structures, area-IO (AIO) and peripheral-IO (PIO), represent patterns of IO 
placement. AIO and PIO problems are to place IOs in the central area and on the 
peripheral of die respectively. PIO is more popular today mainly because of its 
simplicity and low design cost, even though AIO is theoretically better in 
performance. An example of PIO is shown in Fig. 3. 
PIO-FA problems are solved by [4], [5] using network flow algorithms such as 
minimum cost maximum flow (MCMF). PIO-PA problems are solved by [6], [8] 
using integer linear programming (ILP). Under the routing model of [6], [7], their ILP 
5 
 
I. PRACTICAL RDL ROUTING 
A. Routing on Pseudo Single-Layer 
Both RDL routing and bump assignment are additional implementation tasks for 
design houses to migrate designs from wire bonding to flip-chip. Bump assignment is 
to assign each bump to a specific IO pad. Since IO pads are put on the periphery of 
die for most designs, the flylines and signal routing look like nets escaping from 
center to boundary of chip. For our designs under consideration, there are two layers 
of RDL. Metal10 (M10) and metal9 (M9) are used to route all signal nets and to 
implement power/ground (PG) mesh and power routing respectively. Usually the 
number of signal nets to be routed is generally huge for RDL. Bump pads are large in 
area and are treated as obstacles in routing stage. An example of real scale design is 
shown in Fig. 3. 
Fig. 4(a) shows an example of congested RDL, where 6 nets, netA, netB, ..., netE, 
are shown in flylines. Such designs are so congested that 100% routability is not 
achieved within single layer (ex: M10), so we must consider two trivial solutions. One 
is to increase the area of RDL (ex: M10), which is equivalent to increasing the 
die-size, as shown in Fig. 4(b). Another is to add an extra layer of RDL (ex: M11), as 
shown in Fig. 4(c). However, neither of the solutions mentioned is acceptable for cost 
concern. 
We hereby introduce the concept called Pseudo Single−Layer Routing. It is to 
borrow a small portion of area from another existing metal layer (ex: M9). This is 
practical and cost-effective provided that the area is less critical in performance. In 
Fig. 4(d), some area of M9 (the pink area) is borrowed to complete routing. Here we 
assume that the area between a boundary track (the dotted grey line) and the border of 
die is used to assist routing. The idea of pseudo single-layer routing avoids cost 
problems and realizes congested routing. While previous works focus on pure 
single-layer routing, the concept of pseudo single-layer uses 2-layer routing within a 
small portion of area. This is applicable to RDL because of the following reason. M9 
is traditionally used to connect PG from IO pads to core. Some different styles of PG 
nets such as rings, stripes, and meshes are therefore designed. The most important 
function of M9 is to evenly distribute power to every logic gate in the core. So the 
7 
 
B. Problem Definition 
The problem of RDL routing is to connect net Ni between the bump pad Bi and 
the input/output pad IOi. First and second RDLs are M9 and M10 respectively, as 
shown in Fig. 5. We name the area as inner/outer region with respect to the boundary 
track. Regarding to layers and inner/outer region, the whole RDL is partitioned into 
four sectors: M
L10
outer, M
L10
inner, M
L9
outer, and M
L9
inner. 
Definition of Terms: 
• Routable region (pseudo single-layer): ML10outer ∪ M
L10
inner ∪ M
L9
outer 
• Outer region: ML10outer ∪ M
L9
outer 
• Inner region: ML10inner ∪ M
L9
inner 
 
 The pseudo single-layer RDL routing problem is to physically connect Bi and IOi 
of net Ni in routable region and to minimize the area of inner region. This also means 
that the boundary track is not fixed; the solution of this problem is to determine the 
location of boundary track. The problem formulation is thus as follows: 
Input:(Fig. 6) 
• Given physical locations of bump pads Bi and IO pads IOi 
• Given Bi − IOi mapping of net Ni 
Output: 
• Single-layer routing in ML10inner 
• Two-layer routing in ML10outer ∪ M
L9
outer 
Objective: 
• Minimize the area of outer region (preserve the integrity of PG routing) 
 
 The whole area of RDL is divided into four sectors by two diagonals: west, north, 
east, and south. In the following descriptions, we focus on west region only. In our 
implementation, north, east, and south regions are counterclockwise rotated 90, 180, 
270 degrees respectively. There are no sector boundary nets to be processed. 
 
9 
 
A. Constraints and Considerations in Manual RDL Routing 
 Here we address the constraints and considerations learned from manual routes 
and the designs under consideration. The example in Fig.7 is a real situation from 
industrial experience. There are few crossings due to a well devised bump-IO 
assignment. There is sufficient capacity for horizontal wires because the row can 
support larger capacity, say six wires. In Fig.7(a), all nets can be routed from bump 
pads to IO pads in one row without any difficulty. However, capacity for vertical 
wires is insufficient because 24 nets (4 rows × 6 bumps per row) travel through the 
horizontal cut line. In Fig.7(b), only 12 flylines (out of 24 nets) are plotted. The 
capacity is small that there is no room for 24 vertical wires. 
 
 
Fig. 7. Capacity constraints for horizontal wires (a) and vertical wires (b). 
 
From the example in Fig. 5, we can observe that there is only limited area 
(horizontal channels) for routing in M10 (M
L10
outer Union M
L10
inner). For instance, 
when NA is considered for routing, other bumps are seen as obstacles. If we restrict 
11 
 
 
Fig. 8. Modeling of layout. There are IO track, boundary track, and 6 bump tracks (Ly1, Ly2, 
Ry1, Ry2, Ry3, Ry4). In (a), on the right of boundary track, each bump track can have some 
possible paths (dotted lines) to route to boundary track, and one of paths is routed (solid lines). 
In (b), routes are extended onto the boundary track, the area for 2-layer routing (M
L10
outer 
Union M
L9
outer) contains two bump tracks and is enclosed by IO track and boundary track. 
 
C. Regional Layer Allocation for Effective Capacity Utilization 
In outer region, two layers are available for signal routing. To effectively utilize 
routing capacity, two solutions for routing resource allocation are illustrated in Fig. 9. 
Regional layer allocation is proposed as follows. One layer is for horizontal wires and 
the other one is for vertical wires. Horizontal wires are used to connect from IO pads 
to the assigned track. They cannot be blocked by any obstacle. Thus, the allocation is 
that horizontal wires are routed in M9 (Fig. 9(c)) based on the observation that M10 
contains full of bumps. Another advantage of this allocation is that PG wires go 
horizontally to central/inner RDL using M9. This allocation guarantees to leave some 
spaces for PG wires. Vertical wires are therefore used to connect two pins on a track. 
Note that layer assignment (Fig. 9(b)) has some drawbacks and limitations due to the 
inflexibility. This technique will be performed along with the following channel 
13 
 
 
Fig. 10. Channel routing on mapped channels. Abstraction from physical layout to channel 
routing is shown in (a). For the example in (b), the results shown in (c) are obtained by 
applying LEA, and physically routed in (d). Then they are mapped to real solution in RDLs in 
(e). 
 
B. Assignment of Movable Pins on Pin-Tracks 
In Step1, we have that pins are movable along track within certain distance. In 
Fig. 11 (view the channel in Fig. 10(b) rotating 90 degree), pinA is movable if capacity 
for the bottom track is sufficient. We can assign locations of the pins once they are 
movable. The impact of locations of pins is beneficial. As shown in Fig. 11(a), 
minimum number of tracks for this case is two since the pin of B on the top track 
(IO-pin) and the pin of A on the bottom track (bump-pin) have vertical constraint. 
However, if bump-pin A is moved to its left, then minimum number of tracks is 
reduced to one, as shown in Fig. 11(b). So the assignment of movable pins can affect 
the number of required tracks. If they can be well assigned, vertical constraints can 
also be greatly reduced. 
Based on some observations from design parameters, the idea of staggered pins 
can be applied to accommodate staggered/movable pins. Since there is enough 
capacity to place one horizontal wire at each border of IO pads, bump-pins can be 
staggered from IO-pins, as shown in Fig. 11(c). Besides, once the pins are staggered, 
15 
 
obtained by any pin-to-pin router since all the pin positions are allocated. All results 
are clean in design rule checking (DRC). The routing results are shown in Fig. 12 and 
Fig. 13, and summarized in Table I. Due to non-disclosure agreement (NDA), only 
partial results are shown. Without painful manual routing, we can obtain acceptable 
results in almost no time. 
 
TABLE I 
THE SUMMARY OF ROUTING RESULTS. 
 
 
 
Fig. 12. Manual routes. 
17 
 
五、參考文獻 
 
[1] P. Dehkordi and D. Bouldin, “Design for packageability-the impact of bonding 
technology on the size and layout of VLSI dies,” in Proceedings Multi-Chip 
Module Conference, pp. 153-159, 1993. 
[2] J.-W. Fang and Y.-W. Chang, “Area-I/O flip-chip routing for chip package 
co-design,” in Proc. IEEE/ACM international Conference on Computer-Aided 
Design, pp. 518-521, 2008. 
[3] H.-C. Lee, Y.-W. Chang, and P.-W. Lee, “Recent research development in 
flip-chip routing,” in Proc. IEEE/ACM international Conference on 
Computer-Aided Design, pp. 404-410, 2010. 
[4] J.-W. Fang, I-Jye Lin, Y.-W. Chang, and J.-H. Wang, “A network-flow based 
RDL routing Algorithms for flip-chip design,” in IEEE Trans. on 
Computer-Aided Design of integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 26, no. 8, pp. 
1417-1429, Aug. 2007. 
[5] J.-W. Fang, I-J. Lin, P.-H. Yuh, Y.-W. Chang, and J.-H. Wang, “A routing 
algorithm for flip-chip design,” in Proc. IEEE/ACM international Conference on 
Computer-Aided Design, pp. 753-758, Nov. 2005. 
[6] J.-W. Fang, C.-H. Hsu, and Y.-W. Chang, “An integer linear programming based 
routing algorithm for flip-chip design,” in Proc. ACM/IEEE Design Automation 
Conference, pp. 606-611, June 2007. 
[7] P.-W. Lee, C.-W. Lin, Y.-W. Chang, C.-F. Shen, and W.-C. Tseng. “An efficient 
pre-assignment routing algorithm for flip-chip designs,” in IEEE/ACM 
international Conference on Computer-Aided Design, pp. 239-244, Nov. 2009. 
[8] J.-W. Fang, C.-H. Hsu, and Y.-W. Chang, “An 
integer-linear-programming-based Routing algorithm for flip-chip designs,” in 
IEEE Trans. on Computer-Aided Design of integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 
28, no. 1, pp. 98-110, 2009. 
[9] J.-W. Fang and Y.-W. Chang, “Area-I/O flip-chip routing for chip package 
co-design considering signal skews,” in IEEE Trans. on Computer-Aided Design 
of integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 29, no. 5, pp. 711-721, 2010. 
[10] K.-S. Lin, H.-W. Hsu, R.-J. Lee, and H.-M. Chen, “Area-I/O RDL routing for 
chip-package codesign considering regional assignment,” in Proc. IEEE 
Electrical Design of Advanced Packaging & Systems Symposium, pp. 1-4, 2010. 
[11] J.-W. Fang, M.D.F. Wong, and Y.-W. Chang, “Flip-chip routing with unified 
area-I/O pad assignments for package-board co-design,” in Proc. ACM/IEEE 
Design Automation Conference, pp. 336-339, 2009. 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳宏明 計畫編號：99-2220-E-009-038- 
計畫名稱：針對 3D 整合之電子設計自動化技術開發--子計畫四：立體堆疊晶片與系統級構裝之設計最
佳化研究(2/2) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 5 5 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 4 4 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 8 8 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
