行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫－成果報告
DVB-H行動視訊廣播：手持式 IPDC多媒體
數位電視之設計與實作
Mobile Video Broadcasting with DVB-H: Design and Implementation of
Hand-held IPDC Multimedia Digital TV
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-130-008-
執行期間：95年08月01日 至 96年07月31日
計畫主持人 ：陳游利 副教授 銘傳大學資訊工程系
計畫參與人員：賴正于 黃治瑋 銘傳大學資訊工程系
一、中英文摘要
此計畫之研究重點主要在針對歐規DVB-H
（Digital Video Broadcasting - Handheld）數位電
視標準，設計並實現一可行之多媒體行動數位廣
播系統。此系統同時涵蓋發送平台之實驗室模擬
建制及接收端裝置之設計與製作。在系統架構實
現方面，我們架設了整個發送端儀器設備；包括
(1)提供資料來源之內容注射機，(2)將數位訊號轉
成COFDM多重載波訊號之類比調變機，及(3)作
功率放大及頻率調諧之射頻發送機。
此計畫也設計出IPDC接收機之規格需求；包
括(1)手持式裝置之硬體平台規格，(2)手持式設備
與DVB-H接收模組間之介面，(3)嵌入式及時作業
系統之規格，及(4)DVB-H接收模組與系統之整
合。核心模組之開發包括DVB-H接收模組與手持
式裝置間之介面整合及控制程式開發。而DVB-H
服務訊息（Service Information）之採掘、分析、
儲存、更新及運用，更是提供系統資料庫之重要
元件。
關鍵詞：多媒體手機電視、網際網路協定式數據
廣播、行動式數位視訊廣播
Abstract - The objective of this project is to design and
develop a multimedia mobile broadcasting system which
conforms to the DVB-H and IPDC standards. The
hand-held devices of the project have the advantages of
small size, high mobility, low-power consumption and
high-bandwidth multimedia reception.
Regarding to the system implementation aspects, we
establish a signal transmission platform with a complete
set of instruments, including the content injector,
COFDM modulator and RF amplifier/transmitter. The
project also propose a DVB-H receiver specification,
including (1) hardware specification of the hand-held
device, (2) embedded real-time operation system of the
hand-held device, (3) chip selection of the DVB-H
receiver module, and (4) the interface between the
DVB-H module and the hand-held device.
Regarding to the implementation of a hand-held
device with the DVB-H receiver module, the technical
works include (1) control software development for the
DVB-H receiver module, (2) realization of the IPDC
communication protocols stack, (3) high-level APIs
specification to be used by the IPDC applications, and (4)
establish of the DVB SI database.
Keywords: Multimedia mobile TV, IP Datacast, DVB-H
二、計劃緣由與目的
因應「行動多媒體」的潮流，具有豐富內容
的數位電視也從家庭應用走向個人隨身裝置。行
動中收看電視粗略可以分成幾種，一種是利用手
機網路方式收看視訊，另一種則是利用廣播方式
傳輸多媒體串流，數位廣播搭配行動通訊網路之
互動式服務應用說明了未來技術發展方向。其
中，廣播方式可採用DVB-H (Digital Video
Broadcasting - Handheld；手持式數位視訊廣播)，
DVB-H是在DVB-T（Digital Video Broadcasting -
Terrestrial；地面數位視訊廣播）上進行一層軟體
包裝，但底層訊號仍採DVB-T架構。
The framework of a generalized IP datacasting
system of Figure 1 is difficult to realize in a personal
research project. It should be suitable for an integration
project with several experts over several years. However,
the IP datacasting system can be tailored to fit a personal
research project by implementing the primary and more
user-demand parts of the system. While the primary
system is reached, it could serve as the basis to the
realization of the generalized IP datacasting system.
The objective of this project is to design and
develop a multimedia mobile broadcasting system which
conforms to the DVB-H and IPDC standards. The
scheme of the project includes the establishment of a
low-power transmitter in the laboratory and the
implementation of a hand-held device with the DVB-H
receiver module. The broadcast account manager,
broadcast service manager and other components in the
transmitter side are not the target outcomes of the project.
The project has put most efforts at the receiver side.
First, the project propose a DVB-H receiver
specification, including (1) hardware specification of the
hand-held device, (2) embedded real-time operation
system of the hand-held device, (3) chip selection of the
DVB-H receiver module, and (4) the interface between
the DVB-H module and the hand-held device.
In addition, the project realizes, test and debug the
proposed hand-held DVB-H receiver. The technical
works include (1) control software development for the
DVB-H receiver module, (2) realization of the IPDC
communication protocols stack, (3) high-level APIs
specification to be used by the IPDC applications, and (4)
establishment of the DVB SI database.
3. DVB-H Bearer Functionalities
DVB-H is an enhancement of the widely accepted
DVB-T digital broadcast standard. DVB-H is compatible
with DVB-T, and they can even share the same network.
As for the radio technology DVB-T uses, DVB-H adds
one main function: a 4k mode used in COFDM
modulation in addition to the original 2k and 8k modes.
The 4k mode offers a compromise between large, cheap
cells, and the maximum speed a terminal may move. On
the network side, enabling the 4k mode generally
requires just updating of modulators.
On top of the COFDM radio technology there are
certain features that are more or less specific to DVB-H.
The encapsulation, which embeds the Internet Protocol
on the MPEG-2 Transport Stream, is not DVB-H specific.
It is part of the DVB-T standard and is just chosen to the
standards profile supporting DVB-H.
Service Information (SI) has some extensions,
which are specific to IPDC/DVB-H. The major addition
is information about IP sockets. It is also important to
note that the SI is not used to carry information to the
mobile terminal end users. This kind of information is
broadcast on the IPDC level as an application.
Time slicing, a variant of time division multiplexing,
is an essential addition to the DVB-T standard. With
time slicing, datagrams in Internet sessions are buffered
and sent out in bursts. The terminal receives the burst,
turns off the receiver, and drives the display from the
buffer. This allows considerable battery-power saving
with the current technology. Time slicing is backward
compatible with DVB-T. The receiver only needs to have
enough buffering capacity; turning down the receiver is
not required.
MPE-FEC (Multi Protocol Encapsulation–Forward
Error Correction) is an optional additional correction
layer. It offers better reliability, especially in case of
large files and burst errors. MPE-FEC is also backward
compatible, given that terminals that do not understand it
can just discard the MPE-FEC frames.
3.1 DVB-H Receiver Architecture
The conceptual structure of a DVB-H receiver is
depicted in Figure 2. It includes a DVB-H demodulator
module and a DVB-H terminal. The DVB-H
demodulator module includes a DVB-T demodulator, a
time-slicing module and a MPE-FEC module.
intermediary BAT/NIT searching for linkage types 0x0B.
Intermediary tables should be cached by the receiver to
allow it rapid access to the INT when switching transport
streams.
If a receiver does not find a valid linkage descriptor
of type 0x0B or 0x0C in the actual Transport Stream, it
may check for the presence of a linkage descriptor of
type 0x04 pointing to a Transport Stream containing
complete Network/Bouquet SI.
4.2 PSI Signalling of INT Table
The IP/MAC Notification Table (INT) is signalled
as a DVB service in the PMT table. The PMT of the
transport stream carrying the INT Table shall contain the
data_broadcast_id_descriptor with the data_broadcast_id
of 0x000B to indicate the elementary stream used for the
IP/MAC Notification Table.
The data_broadcast_id_descriptor in the PMT shall
contain the reference (platform_id and action_type) of
each INT sub-table which is broadcast in the
corresponding elementary stream.
4.3 IP/MAC Notification Table
The IP/MAC Notification Table (INT) is used with
the data_broadcast_id_descriptor (0x000B) where the
action_type is set to one. It is used for the signalling of
the availability and location of IP/MAC streams in DVB
networks. The INT is broadcast in SI table format; the
format is laid out in clause 5 of EN 300-468. The
maximum length for an INT section is 4096 bytes.
The INT is divided into sub-tables. An INT
sub-table is a collection of sections with the same value
of table_id, platform_id, action type and version number.
The INT sub-table is identified by its platform_id and
action_type. The platform_id_hash is intended for fast
(e.g. hardware) filtering but as it is not unique, the full
platform_id should be used to identify the sub-table.
Each IP/MAC stream shall be announced by an INT
sub-table with action_type 0x01 within the same
transport stream. Optionally, an INT sub-table may also
announce IP/MAC streams on other transport streams. A
sub-table section is further divided into 2 independent
loops: The 1st loop (platform_descriptor_loop) is used to
describe the IP/MAC platform. The 2nd loop associates
an operational_descriptor_loop with a
target_descriptor_loop.
4.4 MPE PSI and SI specifications
The data broadcast specification profile for
multiprotocol encapsulation supports data broadcast
services that require the transmission of datagrams of
communication protocols via DVB compliant broadcast
networks. The transmission of datagrams according to
the multiprotocol encapsulation specification is done by
encapsulating the datagrams in DSM-CC sections (see
ISO/IEC 13818-6), which are compliant with the
MPEG-2 private section format (see ISO/IEC 13818-1).
The data broadcast service shall indicate the
transmission of datagrams by including one or more data
broadcast descriptors in SI (see EN 300 468 and TR 101
162). The data_broadcast_id field of the data broadcast
descriptor shall be set to 0x0005 to indicate the use of the
multiprotocol encapsulation specification (see also TR
101 162).
Each data broadcast descriptor shall be associated
with a stream via a component_tag identifier. In
particular, the value of the component_tag field shall be
identical to the value of the component_tag field of a
stream_identifier_descriptor (see EN 300 468) that may
be present in the PSI program map table for the stream
that is used to transmit the datagrams.
四、結果與討論
1. IPDC receiver implementation
In the following paragraphs, we provide a
description of the implementation of a terminal that is
used to receive mobile broadcast services. The project
focuses on the technical aspects of implementing an
IPDC terminal. It assumes that IP Datacast is used as the
technology platform for mobile broadcast services.
Consequently, we use IP Datacast or IPDC as a synonym
for mobile broadcast in the rest of the report. The IPDC
button on the control panel to perform auto-scan
procedure. The control software will scan all of the RF
channels in the UHF bands to get the DTV parameters of
the available physical channels.
The data broadcast specification support a standard
mechanism for signalling IP/MAC services deployed
within DVB networks and enables the implementation of
DVB receivers that are completely self-tuning when
accessing IP/MAC streams on one or more transport
streams. The mechanism for signalling IP/MAC services
and how to get IP/MAC streams has been described in
the previous section.
At the end of the auto-scan procedure, all of the
available DTV parameters are stored in the database of
the control software. The stored DTV parameters can be
used as a memory catch in the future to speed up the
user’s operations such as channel up/down and others. 
The stored DTV parameters are the RF frequencies of the
available physical channels, PMT of the available
programs, SDT of the available service,
video/audio/PCR PID of each DVB-T program, etc. For
the DVB-H specific services, INT tables are parsed and
the target IP addresses are extracted. Also, the
elementary PIDs of the MPE-FEC sections are stored to
be used as a memory catch to speed up IP stream
switching.
In another way, if the users launch the DVB-H
application some time later the auto-scan procedure, the
database has been filled with the useful DTV parameters.
In the case, the auto-scan procedure is not performed.
Instead, the control software gets useful DTV parameters
directly from the database and using them to
communicate with the DVB-H module.
The control software can get DTV parameters either
from the database or just after finish of the auto-scan
procedure. By using the DTV parameters, the application
can tune RF frequency to one of the VHF/UHF channels
and find OFDM modulation parameters such as guard
interval, FFT size, puncture rate, constellation format.
These OFDM parameters will be used by the base band
part to demodulate the received analog signal into digital
transport stream.
The base band part then sends the transport stream
to the PDA terminal through SD interface. Furthermore,
the control software will try to de-multiplex the received
MPEG-2 transport stream by using the PSI/SI
information in the database. After the operation of the
de-multiplexing, we can get audio, video, IP stream, and
other data streams from the transport stream.
五、計劃成果自評
We have a thorough survey of the theories and
technologies regarding to the DVB-H and IPDC
broadcasting specifications. The scopes include the
deployment of mobile broadcasting services, system
requirements of the infrastructure, integration of the
DVB-H receiver module with a hand-held device,
technical aspects of the physical and MAC layer, IPDC
architecture framework, client platform and client
application in the terminal devices, etc.
The objectives of the project include the
establishment of a low-power transmitter in the
laboratory and the implementation of a hand-held device
with the DVB-H receiver module. With a great support
from Hitop cooperation, we have established a DVB-H
signal transmission platform with a complete set of
instruments, including the content injector, COFDM
modulator and VHF/UHF RF amplifier/transmitter.
Several DVB-H transport streams containing IP services
are also edited.
The Mobitive™ DIB7000-H chip from Dibcom
cooperation is used in the project to serve as the kernel of
DVB-H module. The DVB-H module has a SD interface
to communicate with a DELL PDA which has Windows
Mobile operating system running on it. The above items
form a basic hardware platform for the development of a
DVB-H IPDC receiver.
Also, the project develops a set of control software
which include IPDC communication protocols stacks,
high-level APIs to be used by the IPDC applications, RF
