 2
振動暴露列為累積性肌肉骨骼傷害的第四
個量化評估因子。雖然過去國內曾有少數
研究單位探討手工具施力與振動之相關問
題[9,10]，但並未與現場實際作業狀況相結
合。 
為了進一步瞭解振動暴露所潛藏之肌
肉骨骼危害，本研究以擴展過去在作業現
場人因危害量化評估之成果，延伸發展振
動暴露之量測評估技術。 
 
三、研究方法 
 
本研究主要執行內容包括擴充過去所
開發之資料記錄器功能，並撰寫符合 ISO 
5349 局部振動之分析軟體，最後進行軟、
硬體系統之可用性測試。 
 
3.1 硬體設備擴充 
本研究擴充前期研究所開發之可攜式
資料記錄器軔體功能[11]（圖 1），使其能
以單通道 20k sample/s 之頻率高速取樣，
同步擷取 3 個通道的外部輸入類比訊號
(±10V)，並將同一通道來源之資料分散儲
存於 4 個資料軌(data channel)中，每一資
料軌相當於儲存 5k sample/s 的取樣資料，
使後續分析可依實際需要將資料合併轉換
為 5k、10k、或 20k sample/s 取樣頻率之資
料。 
 
圖 1 可攜式資料記錄器外觀 
 
3.2 分析軟體撰寫 
目前國際上對於手部振動暴露之評估
最常引用的規範包括 American Conference 
of Government Industrial Hygienist 
(ACGIH)所制訂之閾限值(TLVs)、美國國
家標準局(ANSI)所訂之 S2.70-2006、以及
歐盟所訂之 Directive 2002/44/EC 三種。此
三種規範皆同樣採用 ISO 5349 對於加速
度之測量與計算規定[12]。因此本研究先
行使用 Matlab 設計符合 ISO 5349(2001, 
1986) 之頻率加權濾波函數 (frequency 
weighting filter)，設計所得取樣頻率 5 kHz
之高通(high-pass)及低通(low-pass)二階數
位濾波函數分別如下所示。由 Matlab 所模
擬之濾波轉換函數頻率響應如圖 2 所示。 
2-1-
-2-1
z0.988974z1.9889131
z994472.0z1.9889430.994472)( +−
+−=zH HP  
2-1-
-2-1
z0.967018z1.9666201
z0.009795z0.0001990.009994)( +−
−+=zH LP  
100 101 102 103 104
-50
-45
-40
-35
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
Frequency (Hz)
dB
 
圖 2 ISO 5349 濾波函數頻率響應 
其次將上二式之濾波參數內建於
LabVIEW 所開發之振動分析程式中，並將
該程式以模組形式嵌入前期配合資料記錄
器所開發之 Viewlog 應用軟體中（圖 3），
成為 Viewlog 之振動分析模組（圖 4），
以俾搭配使用原有之校正、分析等功能。
該模組具有計算頻率加權後之加速度峰
值、均方根值(r.m.s.)、等量加速度值、與
crest factor 等功能，可進行 1/3、1/6、1/12
八頻帶之分析處理，以及以批次方式分析
處理長時間振動資料之功能[13]，分析處
理結果由Viewlog記錄於*.cyc檔中並自動
輸出至 Excel 報表。 
 4
 
圖 6 ISO 5349 所定義之手部振動方向 
 
量測步驟 
測量進行之前先使用校正器(r.m.s.: 
10m/s2 /159.2 Hz) 分別校正各加速度規，
放大器之倍率採用 3.6 V/g。其次將加速度
規規安置於手/握柄轉接器上，依所測量之
工具振動大小調整適當之放大器倍率後，
啟動記錄器以 20 kHz 記錄 40 秒振動加速
度值，其中，釘槍與電鑽以每 3 秒一次的
方式操作，電鋸及砂紙機則以連續操作的
方式進行，每一測試項目重複 3 次；實驗
所使用之木料材質如表 2 所示。 
 
資料分析 
各加速度規之校正資料經由 Viewlog
校正模組計算校正參數後儲存備用。由紀
錄之加速度訊號中擷取 30 秒測試資料，隨
後經由 Viewlog 振動分析程式運用校正參
數將訊號還原回 m/s2 單位，再通過 ISO 
5349 加權濾波後，計算 r.m.s.值作為比較。 
 
四、研究結果 
 
4.1 訊號品質 
測試結果顯示資料紀錄器可獲得良好
的訊號品質。以ㄇ釘槍為例，其衝擊時間
僅約 1/100 秒，但使用 20 kHz 採樣所得結
果仍可以完整呈現加速度波形（圖 6a），
因此頻譜分析結果可以很完整地反應出衝
擊性振動應有的全頻域響應特性（圖
6b），由圖 6b 中 16 Hz 左右兩邊頻率訊號
的衰減情形亦清楚地呈現出 ISO 5349 之
頻率加權特性。 
 
(a) 
(b) 
圖 7 (a)20 kHz 取樣之典型ㄇ釘槍 z 方向加
速度時域訊號 (b) ㄇ釘槍振動之 1/3 octave
頻譜 
 
4.2 頻域分析 
從 不 同 型 式 工 具 之 加 權 加 速 度
(frequency weighted acceleration)訊號的頻
譜分析結果，可以獲得振動強度以外的特
性，例如兩種釘槍的振動強度雖然不同，
但其頻率分佈相當相似（圖 6b、7a），電
動之電鑽與電鋸同樣在 50～60 Hz 間有最
高的振動能量（圖 7b, c），而砂紙機則是
在與轉速(13000 rpm≒126.7 Hz)相關的
120 Hz 中央頻率處出現最大振動能量。 
(a) 
(b) 
 6
本計畫執行過程中另購置了三軸 ICP
型 之 加 速 度 規 (model 356B12, PCB 
Piezotronics)，並已自製完成該類型加速度
規之訊號放大器（未於本報告中詳述）。
該 ICP 感測及放大裝置造價便宜，並經實
驗室的測試比對，確認該裝置與 Brüel & 
Kjær 系統在此應用範圍內的性能相當。但
由於本計畫執行期間無法順利購得該加速
度規適配之手部與握柄轉接器，因此未將
其應用於整合測試中。 
依據本計畫所完成之軟、硬體架構，
未來僅需於分析軟體中擴充符合 ISO 2631 
-1、ISO 2631-5 之頻率加權濾波函數，以
及全身振動相關之評估參數，例如 VDV 
(vibration dose value)、MTVV (maximum 
transient vibration value)等，即可應用於全
身振動暴露之測量與評估。 
 
六、參考文獻 
 
[1]  Wasserman DE, Badger D, Doyle TE, Margolies 
L. (1974) Industrial Vibration- An overview. J 
Am Soc Safety Eng. 19:38-43. 
[2]  National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health. (1983) Current intelligence bulletin #38: 
Vibration syndrome. Pub. No. 83-110. 
DHHS/NIOSH. Cincinnati, OH. 
[3]  Cannon L, Bernacki E, Walter S. (1981) Personal 
and occupational factors associated with carpal 
tunnel syndrome. J Occup. Med. 23:255-8. 
[4]  Hagberg M, Morgenstern H, Kelsh M. (1992) 
Impact of occupations and job tasks on the 
prevalence of carpal tunnel syndrome. Scand J 
Work Environ Health, 18:337-45. 
[5]  Tanaka S, Wild D, Cameron L, Freund E. (1997) 
Association of occupational and non- 
occupational risk factors with the prevalence of 
self-reported carpal tunnel syndrome in a 
national survey of the working population. Am J 
Ind Med, 32:550-6. 
[6]  Kihlberg S, Hagberg M. (1997) Hand-arm 
symptoms related to impact and non-impact 
hand-held power tools. Int Arch Occup Environ 
Health. 69:282-8. 
[7]  Stenlund B, Goldie I, Hagberg M, Hogstedt C. 
(1997) Shoulder tendinitis and its relation to 
heavy manual work and exposure to vibration. 
Scand J Work Environ Health, 19:43-49. 
[8]  陳協慶 (2004) 製造業上肢肌肉骨骼危害暴露
研究, 行政院勞工委員會勞工安全衛生研究所
委託研究報告, IOSH93-H103. 
[9]  Chang, CH, Wang MJ, Lin SC. (1999) 
Evaluating factors that influence hand-arm stress 
while operating an electric screwdriver. Int. J. 
Ind. Ergonomics. 31, 283-289. 
[10]  Chang CH, Wang MJ. (2000) Evaluating the 
effects of wearing gloves and wrist support on 
hand-arm response while operating an in-line 
pneumatic screwdriver. Int. J. Ind. Ergonomics. 
24, 283-289. 
[11]  Liu YP, Chen HC., Chen CY. (2006) Portable 
data logger for worksite measurement of physical 
workload. J. Medical and Biological Engineering. 
26(1):21-28. 
[12]  International Organization for Standardization. 
(2001) ISO5349. Mechanical vibration – 
measurement and evaluation of human exposure 
to hand-transmitted vibration. General 
requirements. Geneva: ISO. 
[13]  陳協慶 (2003) 作業場所上肢重複性傷害現
場監測技術評估探討, 行政院勞工委員會勞工
安全衛生研究所委託研究報告, IOSH92-H121. 
 
 
表 Y04 
本屆大會主辦單位為馬來亞大學(University of 
Malaya)，共有來自世界各國的專家及學者大約三百多人與
會，其中包括有歐洲的荷蘭、德國、英國、比利時、捷克，
亞洲的新加坡、日本、韓國、台灣、香港、印度、馬來西
亞、伊朗、沙烏地阿拉伯、約旦、印尼、泰國、俄國，非
洲的奈及利亞、及美國、澳洲等國家。所發表的論文合計
海報展示，共發表 180 多篇論文，及 10 場專題演講，其中
馬來西亞以地主身分提出 50 篇最多。台灣 12 篇，印度和
伊朗皆 11 篇為前 3 名。 
十二月十三日（週三）上午聆聽以心率變異分析(analysis 
of heart rate variability)及心電圖訊號處理(ECG signal 
processing)為主題之論文發表。會中將所有的論文及專題討
論，分置於十大主題來討論，包括生物力學(biomechanics)、
生醫材料(biomaterials)、生醫感測器及技術(biomedical 
sensors and biotechnology)、人工智慧(artificial 
intelligence)、臨床及復健工程(clinical and rehabilitation 
engineering)、生醫訊號與醫學影像(biosignal engineering 
processing/medical imaging)、義肢與人工器官(prostheses and 
artificial organs)、醫學資訊及視訊醫學(medial informatics 
and telemedicine)、組織工程(tissue engineering)及醫學的虛
擬實境(virtual reality in medicine)。 
第二天keynote演講由日本預防醫學院校長Prof. Makoto 
Kiduchi 演講「微細科技對創新生醫工程的影響」。當日下
午受邀擔任以 telemedicine與 informatics為主題之論文發表
會主持人，共有 6 篇論文發表，中間休息時間並與發表人
交換意見。晚間與友人搭乘水上計程車至附近 shopping mall
晚餐及購物。 
十二月十四日（週四）上午八時三十聆聽 Prof. Yilin Chao
之專題演講”in vivo and in vitro engineering of cartiliage”，隨
後上午皆參加有關「肌肉活動與肌電訊號量測」之多場次
論文發表。當日下午參觀海報發表並於下午大會結束前
check out 離開會場飯店，與同行友人經由旅行社安排下榻
吉隆坡城區之 Novetel 飯店。 
十二月十六日（週六）上午十一時，結束吉隆坡市附近
之觀光活動，一行人乘遊覽車離開飯店前往國際機場，搭
乘長榮班機返國，並於同日下午 9:00 抵達桃園中正機場，
結束此次行程。 
馬來雅大學（學生活動中心）
發表論文 
開幕儀式 
晚宴表演 
 
主持論文發表 
海報發表現場 
二、與會心得 
本次研討會參訪馬來亞大學的行程中，一路由其大學主管解說，University of Malaya
大約有二萬多名學生，校區很大但規劃有序，系館間距離很遠，且校內規劃許多停車區，
最重要的是校園緑化得像運動公園且系館建築各有特色，值得我們效法。尤其是以一個
Instrumented Shoes for Measuring Ground-Reaction Force of Persons with Stroke 
in Level Walking, Stair Ascending and Descending 
Hsieh-Ching Chen1,2, Chia-Ling Chen2, Yu-Ming Chen3, Alice M. Wong2, Jye Lee3 
1 Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, Chaoyang University of Technology, Taiwan  
2 Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Chang Gung Memorial and Children Hospital, Taiwan 
3 Graduate Institutes of Medical Mechatronics, Chang Gung University, Taiwan 
Abstract— Analysis of foot-floor reactions during one’s lo-
comotion can be helpful for clinical diagnosis of his dynamic 
stability, walking ability, and balancing performance. The 
objective of this study is to design a pair of instrumented shoes 
to measure ground-reaction forces of persons with stroke in 
their level walking, stair ascending and descending. This study 
integrates a pair of instrumented shoes and a microprocessor-
controlled data logger to build a portable system for measur-
ing vertical foot-floor reaction forces. The instrumented shoes 
consist of 14 load cells, adjustable shoe modules, and signal 
conditioning circuits. The system is capable of synchronizing 
with a video recorder and continuously acquiring data up to 
2h under a 100 Hz sampling rate. Plantar forces of 5 healthy 
adults and 6 persons with stroke were measured in their level 
walking, stair ascending and descending up to 10min. Their 
temporal and spatial gait parameters were calculated using 
analysis software programmed by LabVIEW. The instru-
mented shoes have 0.08 % and 1.72 % averaged static error 
and dynamic error, respectively, and were proved to equip 
with portability, high resolutions, and long operation time. 
Significant group differences were found in force waveforms, 
COP loci and bilateral symmetry of temporal and spatial gait 
parameters. Furthermore, the force waveforms and COP loci 
seems to accordingly reflect the severity of participants with 
stroke. Experiment results show the system is capable of ac-
quiring foot-floor reaction forces for both normal and patho-
logical gaits and can derive adequate parameters for clinical 
diagnosis. 
Keywords—Stroke, gait analysis, stair climbing, foot-floor 
reaction 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Walking ability is one of the most important ability in 
one’s daily living. Gait performance may differ among 
individuals with disabilities. How to quantitatively and 
qualitatively assess and improve their walking ability is an 
important issue in the rehabilitation medicine. Analyzing 
foot-ground reactions of people with disability during lo-
comotion can be helpful for a doctor to diagnosis his walk-
ing ability, stability, and balancing performance. 
The foot-floor reactions during locomotion are wildly 
applied in areas such as shoemaking, clinical diagnosis, 
sports medicine, rehabilitation engineering, orthopedics and 
biomechanics research, and so on. In 1988, Zhu et al. devel-
oped a portable system to evaluate the plantar forces of 
ulcerated diabetics’ feet. Though the acquired data was 
limited to metatarsal head and hallux area, test results 
showed that the system was reliable [1]. In 1991, Harris et 
al. designed a portable foot-pressure system to locate the 
ulcerated area where diabetic nerves have no function [2]. 
Abu-Faraj and colleagues applied a portable foot pressure 
system to measure the gait of children with cerebal palsy [3]. 
Wervey et al. described the foot pressure pattern of 7 
healthy adults while walking upstairs or downstairs [4]. 
MacWilliams and Armstrong reported the acquired informa-
tion of foot-pressure was able to determine walking stability 
[5]. In 2001, Smith applied a plantar pressure measurement 
system to assess the foot pressure of kids with a clubfoot [6]. 
Despite many studies have reported gait of the disabled 
persons, we are not aware of any study focused on stair 
ascending and descending of persons with stroke. The ob-
jective of this study is thus to develop an instrumented 
shoes system for measuring plantar forces of persons with 
stroke while walking upstairs and downstairs. 
II. MATERIAL AND METHOD 
A. Instrumented shoes 
The instrumented shoe consists of a forefoot part and a 
rearfoot part. Each part comprises a surface and a base seg-
ment of 15mm-thick composite material. This material is 
lightweight whereas firm enough to be stepped on. Between 
the segments, 4 and 3 load cells were sandwiched in be-
tween segments of forefoot and rearfoot part, respectively 
(Fig. 1). Each load cell is 9.5mm height, 20mm diameter, 
20g weight, and is sunk in a circular cavity of 5mm depth 
on the surface segment. Meanwhile, each load cell also 
withstands a 1.5mm-thick steel coin which sank in a circular 
cavity of 5mm depth on the base segment, on its tip point 
(Fig. 1). This design assures the overall reaction force ex-
erted on the face segments will be transmitted only onto the 
load cells. All load cells can withstand 50kgw (LM-50K, 
where iF , is , Vi  denotes the load cell force, scaling pa-
rameter, and voltage signal of the ith load cell, respectively. 
Since the total plantar force and voltage signals of the 14 
load cells were measured over time, the best set of scaling 
parameters can be derived by minimizing the overall square 
errors: 
 
∑ ∑∑
= ==
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −=
n
t i
tiit
n
t
t VsF
1
214
1
,
~
1
2min ε
 (2) 
where tε  denotes error and 
~
tF  denotes resultant force 
measured by the force plate system at time t.  
Dynamic calibration was conducted repeatedly over 2 
weeks to ensure consistent system performance, and the 
derived scaling parameters were saved for further applica-
tion. 
D. Subjects and experiment protocol 
Five participants with stroke, aged 21 - 75 yrs, were re-
cruited from the rehabilitation department of Cheng Gung 
Memorial Hospital to joint this study. A medical doctor was 
responsible for screening and conforming all participants 
with stroke equipped were capable of stair ascending and 
descending independently in their daily living. Another five 
healthy university graduate students, aged 25 - 27 yrs, were 
recruited as control group of this study.  
All participants wore the pair of instrumented shoes and 
carried the logger in a small knapsack. They were instructed 
to walk on level surface for 25m and then climb up stairs of 
18.5cm-height and 27.5cm-depth at their own pace. The 
participants with stroke could choose to stop climbing at 
their comfort after they have climbed more than 12 stairs, 
while the control group had to climb more than 60 stairs. 
After a short break, participants were instructed to walk 
down stairs and returned to the starting position of the task. 
Each task took about 10 to 20 minutes from the time the 
participant started to walk on level surface. Each participant 
was video-taped during the task period and a laser pointer 
with wireless transmitter was used to synchronize the video 
and the logger. 
III. RESULTS  
A. System accuracy 
The averaged static calibration errors was 0.08 % and the 
averaged dynamic calibration errors was 1.72 %. The cali-
bration results showed the instrumented shoes system was 
accurate and reliable over a long period of time. 
B. Gait of the controls 
All gait parameters and force waveforms of the controls 
were bilaterally symmetric (Table 1). Significant peak force 
was found in stair descending (160 %BW) and ascending 
(138 %BW) compare to level walking. According to COP 
loci, forefoot was the main weight bearing area of the foot 
during stair ascending and descending. 
Table 1 Averaged Gait Parameters of Control Group 
Movement
Parameter Level-1 Ascending 
Descend-
ing Level-2 
Cycle (sec) 1.42 1.48 1.45 1.39 
Double support 
(%cycle) 20.5 21.2 19.3 21.5 
Single support 
(%cycle) 
(L) 29.1 
(R) 30.0 
28.9 
28.7 
31.7 
30.0 
28.2 
29.1 
Speed (cm/s) 66.0 71.0 70.9 66.0 
Peak (%bw) (L) 109.8 (R) 110.3 
138.7 
138.5 
162.1 
161.5 
108.0 
108.0 
Force 
waveform 
   
COP loci 
   
Table 2 Averaged Gait Parameters of Level Walking 
Participants with stroke Subject
Parameter A B C D E 
Control
group
Cycle (sec) 1.25 2.29 1.67 1.88 1.35 1.42 
Double support 
(%cycle) 28.0 35.8 30.6 30.4 25.2 20.5 
Sound support 
(%cycle) 26.3 21.5 24.0 25.2 33.9 29.1 
Affect support 
(%cycle) 17.8 7.0 14.7 14.1 15.8 30.0 
Speed (cm/s) 60.8 11.6 35.0 24.8 32.4 66.0 
Sound (Af-
fected) peak 
force (%bw) 
109.4
(107.9)
108.5
(102.9) 
109.7 
(105.5) 
109.0 
(108.7) 
110.7
(107.5)
110.3
(109.8)
Force wave-
form (sound)    
Force wave-
form (affected)    
COP loci 
   
 657 
Application of a Novel Integrated Pointing Device Apparatus 
for People with Severe Disability 
Chia-Ling Chen1, MD, PhD, Hsieh-Ching Chen2, PhD, Ching-Yi Wu, ScD3, Huang-Chung Chen1, MD, 
Shih-Wei Chou1, MD, PhD, Simon Fu-Tan Tang1, MD, Alice May-Kuen Wong1, MD 
1Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Chang Gung Memorial and Children Hospital, Chang Gung University, Taiwan 
2Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, Chaoyang University of Technology, Taiwan; 
3Department of Occupational Therapy, Chang Gung University, Taiwan 
Abstract— Background: To improve the computer opera-
tion for people with severe disabilities, more flexible pointing 
devices are required. This study investigates the effectiveness 
of a new developed Integrated Pointing Device Apparatus 
(IPDA), that can integrate numerous commercial pointing 
devices, for people with severe disabilities. 
Methods:  We collected 20 children with quadriplegic 
cerebral palsy (CP) and 25 people with high cervical spinal 
cord injuries (SCI). People with disabilities were classified into 
2 groups based on pointing device used: group A1 (SCI) or A2 
(CP), who used standard mice, and group B1 (SCI) or B2 (CP), 
who were unable to use standard mice (IPDA combinations). 
All subjects received clinical severity and three specific mouse-
operating efficiency assessments (continuous clicking, target-
acquisition, drag-and-drop tasks). The efficiency of the people 
with disabilities in each mouse-operation task was expressed as 
a percentage of that for able-bodied subjects (%NL). The level 
of statistical significant was set at a value of P less than .05.  
Results: Group B1 or B2 displayed similar operational ef-
ficiency in performing the drag-and-drop tasks to group A1 or 
A2, although they exhibited worse efficiency than group A1 or 
A2 in performing the continuous-clicking tasks (P<.05). The 
use of pointing devices was associated with American Spinal 
Injury Association Impairment Scale of people with SCI, and 
Gross Motor Functional Classification System (GMFCS) of 
children with CP (P<.05). 
Conclusion: The IPDA could help most people with severe 
disabilities who could not utilize commercial mice to achieve 
acceptable operational efficiencies. Pointing devices were as-
signed based on the underlying severity. 
Keywords— Computer mouse, efficiencies, pointing devices, 
cerebral palsy, spinal cord injuries 
I. INTRODUCTION  
People with severe physical disabilities often require 
special devices to aid in performing everyday tasks such as 
mobility, communication, environmental control and com-
puter operation.(1) Cerebral palsy (CP) and spinal cord in-
jury (SCI) are common causes of disability. Most people 
with upper limb disabilities encounter difficulties during 
certain learning activities, especially writing-based activi-
ties.  
In meeting the individual needs of children with different 
physical disabilities, standard human-computer interfaces, 
such as the keyboard and mouse, were modified or alterna-
tive electronic techniques were applied in the development 
of special devices.(2) Such special human-computer devices 
comprise head-controlled interfaces built with optically or 
ultrasonically controlled techniques,(3-6) eye-controlled in-
terfaces employing optically controlled techniques,(7,8) 
force-controlled interfaces activated by pressure sensor,(9,10) 
or foot-controlled interfaces that are position-controlled 
techniques.(11) However, these special devices are typically 
expensive and custom-made to suit individual needs.  
This study presents a novel flexible apparatus, Integrated 
Pointing Device Apparatus (IPDA) that can be configured 
in various combinations to suit individual needs by integrat-
ing different currently available commercial pointing de-
vices. This study evaluates the use of this novel apparatus 
by people with disabilities who are otherwise unable to 
operate standard pointing devices. 
II. METHODS 
A. Subjects 
 
Twenty children with CP, aged from 5 to 12 years, and 
25 people with SCI, aged 20-50 years, from rehabilitation 
department at our hospital were enrolled in the study. The 
inclusion criteria of children with CP were as follows: (1) 
severe spastic CP with quadriplegia or athetoid CP with 
quadriplegia; and (3) no active infection such as pneumonia. 
The inclusion criteria of people with SCI were as follows: 
(1) high cervical (C6 or above) SCI with tetraplegia and (2) 
absence of active infection such as pneumonia. All subjects 
are able to manipulate the devices used in this study, under-
stand the commands, had good cooperation during examina-
tion and good vision after visual correction. People with 
disabilities were classified into 2 groups based on pointing 
 659 
improve the operational performance of children with dif-
ferent disabilities..  
 
D. Assessment Procedures 
 
All subjects received clinical severity and three specific 
mouse-operating efficiency assessments (continuous click-
ing, target-acquisition, drag-and-drop tasks). The efficiency 
of the people with disabilities in each mouse-operation task 
was expressed as a percentage of that for able-bodied sub-
jects (%NL). Subjects could operate the mouse with one 
hand only or with bilateral hand via the integration of the 
IPDA. Some subjects (groups A1 or A2) could use one hand 
to operate the standard mouse and accomplish all tests. 
However, the other subjects (groups B1 or B2) could not 
accomplish the target-acquisition or drag-and-drop tasks 
with one hand only. These subjects needed bilateral hands 
simultaneously for operating a mouse and an external 
switch to accomplish all tests. Each subject underwent an 
operative efficiency evaluation of pointing devices, based 
on software developed for this study. People with disabili-
ties also received clinical severity assessments. Severity was 
measured with gross motor functional classification scale 
(GMFCS)(13) for CP and American Spinal Injury Associa-
tion (ASIA) Impairment Scale(14) scale for SCI 
 
E. Data analysis 
 
The operational efficiencies of the subjects for the three 
tasks were derived from the recorded data. The continuous-
clicking efficiency was defined as total number of clicks 
within 10 seconds. The target-acquisition or drag-and-drop 
efficiencies were defined as the number or targets acquired 
and the number of targets dropped, respectively, divided by 
the total test time. For each task, the average efficiency of 
healthy children was taken as 100% and the efficiency of 
people with disabilities in each corresponding task was 
expressed as percentage of healthy performance (%NL) in 
each corresponding task. 
Differences between groups were tested using an inde-
pendent t-test or a Chi-square test or Fisher’s exact test. The 
Mann-Whitney test was applied to test the differences of 
clinical severity assessment between groups. A repeated 
measures ANOVA was used to test operational efficiencies 
of three tasks (continuous clicking, target-acquisition, and 
drag-and-drop tasks) between groups. A value of p < 0.05 
was considered statistically significant. 
III. RESULTS 
The use of pointing devices was associated with ASIA 
Scale of people with SCI and GMFCS scale of children with 
CP (P<.01) 
 
Operational efficiency of pointing devices 
Both SCI groups exhibited worse operational efficiencies 
in all tasks than control subjects. Group B1 displayed worse 
efficiency in performing continuous clicking and target 
acquisition than group A1 (P<.05). However, group B1 
demonstrated similar operational efficiency in the drag-and-
drop tasks (30% NL) to group A1. 
All CP groups demonstrated worse operational efficien-
cies in all tasks than control subjects. Group A2 showed 
better efficiencies in performing continuous-clicking tasks 
than group B2 (p < 0.05). However, group B2 had similar 
operational efficiency in the target-acquisition (approximate 
30%NL) and drag-and-drop tasks as group A2.  
 
 
III. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS 
 
The flexibility of IPDA allowed this device to meet the 
needs of most people with SCI and CP who are unable to 
operate common computer mice and trackballs alone. This 
apparatus allows for flexible adjustments and a combination 
of two commercially available computer-pointing devices to 
fit a user’s control functions for two body parts.  
This apparatus not only enables these people to operate a 
computer via commercial pointing devices, but also im-
proves their operational efficiency and posture by operating 
pointing devices with their better functioning body parts. It 
may cause secondary damage to users with disabilities if 
ergonomically unsound workstations or pointing devices are 
utilized, or if they overuse and operate the mice while sit-
ting in awkward postures.(15-16) Cook and his colleagues 
argued that mouse usage may contribute to musculoskeletal 
injury of the neck and upper extremities.(15) Some special-
ized devices, including head-mounted controllers, may 
increase the risks of cervical lesions resulted from to repeti-
tive impact on the cervical spine in some people. 
In this study, groups B1 and B2 which used the IPDA 
had similar operational efficiency in drag-and-drop tasks as 
groups A1 and A2 which had ability to use a standard 
mouse, even though groups B1 and B2 were unable to com-
plete the target-acquisition and drag-and-drop tasks with a 
standard mouse alone. Therefore, the IPDA could provide 
some people with severe physical disabilities, who could 
not otherwise control standard mice, to operate the cursor 
movement with acceptable efficiency in basic mouse-
operated functions. Trewin and Pain(17) identified that users 
 661 
Fig 2. One Child with Cerebral Palsy Operates the Mouse via an Integrated 
Pointing Device Apparatus. He Used One Mouse for Cursor Control with 
Dominant Hand and Used an External Switch for Click Control with the 
other Hand Simultaneously 
 
Address of the corresponding author: 
 
Author: Chia-Ling Chen, MD, PhD 
     Institute: Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Chang 
Gung Memorial and Children Hospital. 
Street: 5 Fu-Hsing St 
City: Kwei-Shan, Tao-Yuan 333 
Country: Taiwan  
Email:clingchen@gmail.com
  
196 
II. METHODS 
 
A. Subjects 
 
Twenty patients with LBD (12 men, 8 women, aged 
46 to 79 years, mean age 61 yrs) and 15 patients with RBD (9 
men, 6 women, aged 41 to 68 years, mean age 60 yrs) 
volunteered for this study. All participants were enrolled 
after having given their informed consent and were 
right-handed. The duration post onset of stroke ranged from 
9 to 21 months. 
 
B. Materials and instrumentation 
 
A glass with 14.5 cm in height and 6.5 cm in diameter 
was used as the target object for the condition of target 
present. 
A 6-camera motion analysis system (VICON 370 3-D, 
Oxford Metrics Inc), 2 force plates 510 * 460 mm in size 
(AMTI, Advanced Mechanical Technology Incorporation, 
Model Or 6-5-1000), and an IBM-compatible personal 
computer were connected to record kinematic and kinetic 
data. The motion analysis system, which sampled at a rate of 
60 Hz, was used to capture the upper extremity movements 
of infrared markers during standed reaching tasks (see Fig.1). 
The force plates were mounted side by side, sampling at a 
rate of 60 Hz to obtain CoP displacement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Experimental set-up. 
A hand switch, connected to the analog input of the 
VICON system, was used to indicate the time when the hand 
started to move. The end of the movement was obtained 
when the least distance between the marker attached on the 
glass and another marker located on the table occurred. 
 
 
C. Procedures 
 
The experimental set-up was shown in Fig. 1. The 
subjects received two experimental conditions. Under the 
condition of target present, the subject was instructed to push 
the glass forward as far as possible. For the condition of 
target absent, the patient was required to reach forward along 
the track as far as possible. 
 
D. Research design 
 
A counterbalanced repeated-measures design was 
used. 
 
E. Data reduction 
 
The 3-D data obtained from the marker on the head of 
ulna were processed by a customer written program to obtain 
reaching distance. 
The force plate raw data were reduced to obtain CoP 
displacement including the variables of FD, M-L shift, and 
AV of CoP. The variables of M-L shift of CoP were 
normalized to correct for differences in reaching distance. 
 
F. Data analysis 
 
The 2*2 mixed (i.e., one between-factor and one 
repeated-factor) analyses of variance (ANOVA) were 
conducted to test the a priori hypotheses. The between-factor 
was the sequence and the repeated-factor (or the 
within-factor) was the order. The effects of target 
presence/absence were embedded in the sequence by order 
interaction. 
 
 
III. RESULTS 
 
The LCVA group showed significant effects on 
reaching distance and AV of CoP. The control group 
demonstrated significant effects on AV of CoP. No 
significant effects on FD and M-L shift in the LCVA group, 
and on reaching distance, FD and M-L shift in the control 
group were found. 
 
 
IV. DISCUSSION 
 
The findings of this study partially support out 
hypotheses that target present task optimized task 
performance, in comparison with target absent task. There is 
no difference in FD and L-M shift of CoP between two 
conditions in two groups, indicating FD and L-M might not 
 207 
Kinematic Analysis of Speech Motor Control in Children with Cerebral Palsy 
Wei Hsien Hong1, Chia Ling Chen2, Liang Yi Yang2, Hsieh Ching Chen3  
1School of Sports Medicine, China Medical University, Taiwan 
2 Departments of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University, Taiwan 
3 Industrial Engineering and Management, Chaoyang University of Technology, Taiwan 
Abstract—the aim of this study is to use kinematic 
analysis to investigate the speech motor control in children 
with CP. We collected 10 children with CP having spastic 
quadriplegia. Another 10 children with normal development 
(ND) were selected as control group. A motor analysis system 
(Vicon 370) and a mobile video were synchronized to collect 
kinematic data and video images during speaking. Each 
subject received /pa/, /pi/, /pu/, /po/ mono-syllable tasks. 
Kinematic parameters included the spatiotemporal indexes 
(STIs), duration, peak velocity of jaw, and peak displacement 
of lower lip during speaking. Statistical significance was set as 
p less than .05. The results showed CP with spastic 
quadriplegia had greater STIs in /pa/, /pi/, /pu/, and /po/ tasks 
(p<0.05), and larger peak velocity of lip in /pi/, /pi/, and /po/ 
tasks than children with ND (p<0.05). Children with CP non-
progressive brain damage may cause impairment in cognition, 
language, and motor speech functions. Therefore, CP children 
had greater STIs and peak velocity of lip. Kinematic data of 
motor speech control provided in this study may allow 
clinicians to understand the motor speech control with 
children with CP. 
Keywords— Speech motor control, Kinematics, Cerebral Palsy 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Speech is perhaps the ultimate exemplar of complex 
motor skill (Lashley, 1951). The speech production for 
communication is often affected in cerebral palsy (CP) 
(Surveillance, 2002). Both receptive and expressive 
language deficits are common. Articulation disorders and 
impaired speech are present in 38% children with CP 
(Sankar & Mundkur, 2005). To treat motor speech 
dysfunction, it is based on the understanding the mechanism 
of speech motor control in children with CP. Previous 
studies had established the speech motor control pattern in 
children with normal development by lip and jaw kinematic 
analysis (Smith & Goffman, 1998; Green et al., 2000), 
Previous study found that the developmental sequence of 
pronounce began in plosive bilabials (e.g. /b/, /p/) for the 
ND children (Sharkey & Folkin, 1985；McClean & Clay, 
1995). Because the product of sound was bilabial motor by 
upper-lower lip contact, and bilabial is earliest complete 
development in language. The combined syllables by 
bilabial and vowel may be used to clearly observe the 
movement process of lip and jaw during speaking. Some 
pathological studies were focused subjects in stutter and 
specific language impairment by acoustic and kinematic 
analysis (McClean et al., 1990；Kleinow & Smith, 2000; 
Story et al., 1996). However, no study, insofar as we could 
determine, attempted to investigate speech motor control of 
children with CP. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to 
use kinematic analysis to investigate the speech motor 
control in children with CP. 
II. METHODS 
We collected 10 children with CP having spastic 
quadriplegia, age was 8.2±1.6 years, body height 
120.5±10.1 cm, and body weight 23.5±5.4 kg. Another 10 
children with normal development (ND) were selected as 
control group, age was 8.1±1.8, body height 122.5±11.0 cm, 
and body weight 26.5±9.0 kg. The ND children were no 
learning disabilities, speech/language impairment, or 
neurological problems. 
A motion analysis system (Vicon 370, Vicon Motion 
System, Oxford Metrics Inc, UK) with 6 infrared cameras 
and a mobile video were synchronized to collect kinematic 
data and video images by a 60 Hz sample rate during 
utterance task. Eight reflective markers were attached on the 
mask, including the fore head, bilateral pre-auricular area, 
and nose, to establish a rigid body and defined the vertical 
(z), anterio-posterior (y), and horizontal (x) directions as the 
reference coordination system (Fig 1). For oral-movement 
tracking, markers were attached on the bilateral mouth 
corners, the upper and lower lips at midline. 
Z
X
Y
 
Fig 1 The marker positions and definition of coordination system. 
