結合統計方法和非線性規劃進行損耗性裝配尺寸參數值決策 
Parameters decision for product assembly under deterioration process 
using statistical method and nonlinear programming 
 
Abstract  
 
Facing global competition, products with low costs and high quality are in demand. During this 
application the mean values of a product or some of its components may deteriorate as using time 
passes, leading to unexpected product failure that is costly in both time and money. The cost of these 
failures may influence the determination of optimal use time and initial settings as compensation for the 
possible process mean deterioration during consumer usage. In addition to finding use time and initial 
settings for proper quality performance, the determination of process means and tolerances also needs 
to be considered. In this study, the statistical method and nonlinear programming are employed for data 
analysis to have cost reduction and quality improvement. Thus, a function with statistical analysis is 
developed to minimize total quality related cost, including quality loss, failure cost and tolerance cost, by 
determining optimal initial settings, process mean, process tolerance, and using time simultaneously. 
 
Keywords - Product parameter values; Quality loss; Tolerance-related cost 
 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
 
Currently, the manufacturing industry is facing intense competition, so both cost and quality aspects have 
become crucial issues among management concerns. At the product/process design stage, the variability of the 
product quality value, which is the outcome of typical quality characteristics of interest, can be reduced to two 
approaches [12]. The first approach employs a parameter design which sets the process mean so that the product 
quality value is less sensitive to the causes of variability. The other approach employs a tolerance design which 
seeks to reduce process tolerance in order to control the variability of the product quality values. Usually, there is 
no impact on the cost associated with setting the process mean; whereas reducing the process tolerance does lead 
to an increase in cost. For economic reasons, setting the process mean for the parameter design is usually carried 
out prior to reducing the process tolerance for the tolerance design. However, due to the interdependence between 
process mean and process tolerance, the production of high-quality products at low cost in the current 
manufacturing industry requires simultaneous consideration of both parameter and tolerance design, particularly 
in the early stages of the product/process design. 
 Product designers are always concerned about a newly developed product properly performing its 
function for its intended life span under consumer usage conditions. It is well known that the failure rate 
increases in the late stage of the product life cycle as a consequence of accumulated deterioration factors. This 
deterioration could be the result of several factors. One example is when the diameter of a spray nozzle decreases 
due to clogging, which reduces the amount of liquid that passes through the nozzle. Another example is the 
wearing out of machine tools which might play a major role in producing quality goods economically in most 
areas of industrial production. In particular, the use of automated process and computer-aided manufacturing 
always results in a higher production cost. However, if the design tolerance exceeds the process tolerance, 
additional space for the process distribution allows for flexibility within the design tolerance. This flexibility is 
necessary, as the process mean changes due to process shifting or component deterioration, and permits 
adjustment of the process mean to improve product quality, reduce costs, and increase endurance. When process 
mean U is time-dependent due to the deterioration, it can be expressed as a function of time s:
 
U(s) = a0 + (B + 
W．s). Here, a0 is the initial setting, B is a constant, and W is the deterioration rate. Therefore, a functional 
relationship is provided in Eq. (1) to link design target T, design tolerance S, process mean U, and process 
tolerance t: 
∣ T – U(s)∣ ≦  S – t                                                              (1) 
Usually, the existence of a process variance 2σ  is a common feature in all manufacturing processes. In 
most cases, the process variance is unknown due to unavailability of previous data, particularly for new 
products or new processes, unless there are previous data from similar processes. Therefore, a reasonable 
estimation of the process variance is an important issue. As is known, the variance is a function of the process 
tolerance. If a stable status of the manufacturing process after a long period of production is assumed, in 
which the process capability index CP turns to be a constant value, then the product engineers or process 
engineers can indirectly estimate the process variance in the early stage of the product/process stage through 
the following relation: 
2 2
pC
=
．
t
σ ( )
3 
                                                                          (2) 
 
2.2 Quality loss, failure cost and tolerance cost 
 From Taguchi's quadratic quality loss, it is clear that quality loss can only be avoided when the quality 
characteristics completely meet the design target. It is also known that once the quality characteristics deviate 
from their design target, a non-linear quality loss with the coefficient K, which is determined by consumer 
needs, will exist even if the quality values fall within the specifications range. Let S represent the maximum 
deviation of the quality value X from its design target T, while A is the associated consumer loss. Then, K is 
2A/S  [12,13]. The quality loss function is presented in the following expression: 
L(x) = K (x - T)2                                                                        (3) 
where x is the product quality value, K is  quality loss coefficient, and T is the design target. 
 During the life cycle of a product, quality values will naturally vary under different circumstances. Let 
X1, X2, …, Xn be the quality values appearing in different situations. The average quality loss in its symmetric 
quality loss function is as follows: 
E[L(x)] = K [(U - T)2 +σ2]                                                                (4) 
U represents the average value of the quality characteristic, while σ2 is the variance of the quality 
characteristic. Eq. (2) tells us that there are two sources of quality loss: 
(a) K(U - T)2 is the deviation between the process mean and the design target. Examples are blade damages, 
machine breakdowns, problems with raw materials and carelessness of workers. These are usually easy to 
take care of without costly measures. 
(b) Kσ2 is the loss resulting from process variances. To eliminate this source, better equipment, materials and 
processes are usually required. There is cost containment in this effort. Hence, due to economic 
considerations, we usually improve (a) first and then (b). 
Usually, a high tolerance cost is associated with a tight process tolerance, while a low tolerance cost results 
from a loose process tolerance. The tolerance cost can be formulated in various functional expressions. To 
evaluate the tolerance cost, this paper adopts the tolerance cost function developed in the literature [4]. 
Associated process means U1, U2, and U5, initial settings a03 and a04, using time Q, as well as process 
tolerances t1, t2, t3, t4, and t5 must be determined so that the gap Y between the bushing and gearbox falls 
within the specification limits, T–S and T＋S, where T is 0.9 mm, and S is 0.15 mm. Let K be $3500. It is 
known that the deterioration rate values W3 and W4 are 0.020 mm/month and 0.030 mm/month. The 
coefficients B3 and B4 are 0.0000002 and 0.0000003. The capability index, CP, is assumed to be 1. Table 1 
provides the upper and lower process capability limits for each component. Table 2 provides the coefficients a, 
b, and c for the tolerance cost functions. They can be found based on actual data collected in factories and 
analyzed through a statistical regression method. 
Based on product and process relevant information, a set of related values are substituted into Eq. (6), 
which will be treated as the objective function and Eqs. (7), and (8), be the constraints. Thus, a complete 
mathematical programming model for manufacturing process planning is formulated. The software GAMS [3] 
is adopted to determine the optimal solution. The optimal solution includes the following generated optimal 
values：  
U1*=16.0121, U2*=18.0150, and U5*=2.2913, a03*=28.9927 and a04*=1.8867, Q*= 2.7018, t1*=0.0246, 
t2
*
=0.0246, t3*=0.0381, t4*=0.0180 and t5*=0.0180. 
 A sensitivity analysis was performed using the deterioration rate W3
 
and W4
 
values. The results are shown 
in Table 3. They can be explained by the same reasons as discussed in the single component model. 
 
V.  CONCLUSION 
 
 Today's manufacturing industry is facing intensive competition, so both the cost and quality aspects have 
become important issues among management concerns. The fundamental principle is to improve the product 
quality value by optimizing the process mean and the process tolerance so that the product performance is 
minimally sensitive to the various causes of variability during the early stages of the product/process design. 
However, during usage the functional performance of a product may deteriorate, and the product life may be 
shorter than expected. Product failure leads to expensive and costly payments. Thus, determining the optimal 
product/component process mean, initial setting, process tolerance, and using time in the stages of the 
product/process design are critical decision variables. 
 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Al-Fawzan, M. A. and Rahim, M. A., "Optimal Control of a Deteriorating Process with a Quadratic Loss 
Function", Quality and Reliability Engineering International, Vol.17, 2001, pp. 459-466. 
[2] Bjorke, O., Computer-Aided Tolerancing, 2nd edn, ASME Press, New York, 1992. 
[3] Brooke, A., Kendrick, D., Meeraus, A., and Raman, R., GAMS: A User's Guide, GAMS Development 
Corporation, 1998. 
[4] Chase, K. W., Greenwood, W. H., Loosli, B. G., and Haugland, L. F., "Least Cost Tolerance Allocation for 
Mechanical Assemblies with Automated Process Selection," Manufacturing Review, Vol.3, No.1, 1990, pp. 
49-59. 
[5] Ciarapica, F.E. and Giacchetta, G., "Managing the Condition-based Maintenance of a Combined-cycle 
Power Plant: An approach Using Soft Computing Techniques," Journal of Loss Prevention in the Process 
Industries, Vol.19, 2006, pp. 316-325.  
  
 
 
 
Fig. 1  A classic Bjorke gearbox 
 
 
 
Table 1. Upper and lower process capability limits for component j 
j t
 Lj [mm] t Uj [mm] 
1 0.014 0.042 
2 0.018 0.052 
3 0.024 0.072 
4 0.009 0.027 
5 0.010 0.030 
 
 
 國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
(1) 產品生命週期中，可能導致的總成本包含公差成本、品質損失與失敗成本，因此，產品設
計、製程規劃中，同時考量品質與成本是有必要的。同時，本研究也說明產品參數值決策扮
演著提升產品競爭力的重要角色，它能夠有效地降低成本與提高品質。 
(2) 我們更進一步探討產品組件隨著使用時間會發生磨損，為了避免產品失效而付出極高損失，
因此，產品參數值決策增加了啟始值設定與產品使用時間。 
(3) 本研究是在品質與成本同時考量下，進行產品參數值決策(含產品組件發生磨損)。。 
(4) 經由本研究，除了應用理論方法與實務的結合，亦可增加參與師生之實務經驗，學生也可
以達成「做中學，學中做」的好處。 
 
 
 國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期：2010年 01月 30日 
一、參加會議經過 
於 2009 年9 月中旬以E-mail方式上傳會議論文摘要，於10 月初收到審核通過之信函，遂於11 月
初寄出論文全文，同月被正式通知接受並需進行口頭發表。於2010 年1月23 日搭乘長榮航空公司班機
出發至菲律賓馬尼拉，再轉菲律賓國內班機飛往宿霧，參加為期3天議程的研討會。 
2010 亞太地區產業創新與管理學術研討會於 2010 年 1 月 24 日至 26 日，在菲律賓宿霧舉辦。研
討會共分下列幾項議題：Technology and Knowledge Management, Decision Analysis and Methods, Supply 
Chain Management, Facilities Planning and Management, Engineering Education and Training, Reliability 
and Maintenance Engineering, E-business and E-commerce, Project Management, Manufacturing Systems, 
Safety, Security and Risk Management, Systems Modeling and Simulation, and Information Processing and 
Engineering。本次研討會與會學者包含亞太地區十幾個國家學者，共計一百多篇研究參與發表，其中
吾人論文口頭發表被安排於 1 月 26 日下午 3點 15 分至 4點 15 分的場次進行，成功而圓滿完成參與國
際研討會活動。 
 
二、與會心得 
  非常高興此次能在國際研討會中以英語進行口頭論文發表，使得自己在專業研究知識上，以及
在學術活動參與的經驗上，都有向上提升的收穫。本人發表之文章，引發在場多位學者的興趣與
研討。同時，透過此次出國參加國際學術會議，除了學習到新的研究觀念外，還體會到各國學者
在作研究上的態度與獨特見解，令我收穫匪淺，同時亦深覺自己的微小與不足，需要更多努力學
習與從事研究活動。  
其次，在聆聽這麼多場自己感興趣且與論文相關的論文發表後，在個人論文的寫作啟發方面，產
生了許多衝擊，特別是將創新的想法予以量化的過程、方式，諸多學者總能一步一步提出嚴謹的量化
方程式，這方面是我現階段不足的地方，未來可以作為思考與研究的學習對象。 
計畫編號 NSC 98 - 2218 - E - 451 - 002 - 
計畫名稱 結合統計方法和非線性規劃進行損耗性裝配尺寸參數值決策 
出國人員
姓名 
鍾健平 
服務機構
及職稱 
明道大學產業創新與經營學系助理教授 
會議時間 
2010 年 1 月 24 日至 
2010 年 1 月 26 日 會議地點 宿霧，菲律賓 
會議名稱 
2010 International Conference on Asia Pacific Business Innovation & 
Technology Management 
發表論文
題目 
Optimal Product Parameter Values for quality Improvement and Cost 
Reduction 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期：2010 年 01 月 30 日 
一、參加會議經過 
於 2009 年9 月中旬以E-mail方式上傳會議論文摘要，於10 月初收到審核通過之信函，遂於11 月
初寄出論文全文，同月被正式通知接受並需進行口頭發表。於2010 年1月23 日搭乘長榮航空公司班機
出發至菲律賓馬尼拉，再轉菲律賓國內班機飛往宿霧，參加為期3天議程的研討會。 
2010 亞太地區產業創新與管理學術研討會於 2010 年 1 月 24 日至 26 日，在菲律賓宿霧舉辦。研
討會共分下列幾項議題：Technology and Knowledge Management, Decision Analysis and Methods, Supply 
Chain Management, Facilities Planning and Management, Engineering Education and Training, Reliability 
and Maintenance Engineering, E-business and E-commerce, Project Management, Manufacturing Systems, 
Safety, Security and Risk Management, Systems Modeling and Simulation, and Information Processing and 
Engineering。本次研討會與會學者包含亞太地區十幾個國家學者，共計一百多篇研究參與發表，其中
吾人論文口頭發表被安排於 1 月 26 日下午 3 點 15 分至 4 點 15 分的場次進行，成功而圓滿完成參與國
際研討會活動。 
 
二、與會心得 
  非常高興此次能在國際研討會中以英語進行口頭論文發表，使得自己在專業研究知識上，以及
在學術活動參與的經驗上，都有向上提升的收穫。本人發表之文章，引發在場多位學者的興趣與
研討。同時，透過此次出國參加國際學術會議，除了學習到新的研究觀念外，還體會到各國學者
在作研究上的態度與獨特見解，令我收穫匪淺，同時亦深覺自己的微小與不足，需要更多努力學
習與從事研究活動。  
其次，在聆聽這麼多場自己感興趣且與論文相關的論文發表後，在個人論文的寫作啟發方面，產
生了許多衝擊，特別是將創新的想法予以量化的過程、方式，諸多學者總能一步一步提出嚴謹的量化
方程式，這方面是我現階段不足的地方，未來可以作為思考與研究的學習對象。 
計畫編號 NSC 98 - 2218 - E - 451 - 002 - 
計畫名稱 結合統計方法和非線性規劃進行損耗性裝配尺寸參數值決策 
出國人員
姓名 鍾健平 
服務機構
及職稱 明道大學產業創新與經營學系助理教授 
會議時間 2010 年 1 月 24 日至 2010 年 1 月 26 日 會議地點 宿霧，菲律賓 
會議名稱 2010 International Conference on Asia Pacific Business Innovation & 
Technology Management 
發表論文
題目 
Optimal Product Parameter Values for quality Improvement and Cost 
Reduction 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/27
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 結合統計方法和非線性規劃進行損耗性裝配尺寸參數值決策
計畫主持人: 鍾健平
計畫編號: 98-2218-E-451-002- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 產品損耗性尺寸參數值決策
(英文) Parameters decision for a product under deterioration process
成果歸屬機構
明道大學 發明人
(創作人)
鍾健平
技術說明
(中文) 產品生命週期中，可能導致的總成本包含製造成本、品質損失與品質相關成本，
因此，產品設計、製程規劃中，同時考量品質與成本是有必要的。同時，本研究
也說明產品參數值決策扮演著提升產品競爭力的重要角色，它能夠有效地降低成
本與提高品質。進一步探討產品組件隨著使用時間會發生磨損，為了避免產品失
效而付出極高損失，所以，產品參數值決策增加了啟始值設定與產品使用時間。
未考慮使用時間為決策變數模式，在產品損耗性下進行參數值決策，無法獲總成
本最小化。本研究，考慮使用時間為決策變數，建立完整數學模式，獲總成本最
小化。 
(英文) Only having the variables of process mean or process tolerance determined separately 
under the influence of process shifting still cannot guarantee that a product will function 
successfully in an application. In these regards, the present approach intends to develop a 
process model in which the process mean, process tolerance, and production run length 
are simultaneously determined during process shifting. Thus, the contribution made by 
the presented approach is the simultaneous determination of these variables for true 
optimization during the process design.
產業別 機械製造業
技術/產品應用範圍 製造業；組裝業
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
損耗性裝配尺寸
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
