中  文  摘  要 
在本篇報告中，吾人推導了之縱向均值材料之電磁彈性複材薄板與流體單邊接觸之統
禦方程式。壓力、電位移、磁導與張力、磁場、電場間之本構方程式已被引介，而擴張型
的張力-位移關係，其同時展現了線性的虎克定律及馬克思威爾理論，也已被描述。根據可
卡夫對薄板分析所提出之假設，本系統之控制方程式，其中包含了平衡方程式與馬克思威
爾方程式，將以二維的卡氏座標表示。基於雷利商數的理論及”乾”、”濕”模態相同之假設，
與流體接觸之薄板其自然頻率可由”虛擬質量增加因子”(AVIM Factor)所求出，此因子乃代
表了水的存在對結構所造成之慣性質量的增加。流體在本篇論文中被假設為不可壓縮、無
粘滯性及非旋流場，在流體-結構接觸的界面之外，自由移動之邊界條件將被引用，而其所
產生之自由表面效應將藉由一擾動變數所考慮。運用電磁彈性複材薄板在空氣中之模態
解，可求出流體被薄板帶動時所造成之能量增加，進而將其轉換成相對應之虛擬增加質量，
如此便可求出”虛擬質量增加因子”(AVIM Factor)及本流體-結構系統之自然頻率。 
 
關鍵詞： 流體-結構交互作用、縱向均值材料之電磁導性薄板、虛擬質量增加因子 
 
 1
 1. INTRODUCTION 
Fluid-structure interaction problems have wide range of engineering applications such as 
the vibration problems of ship structures, offshore structures, reservoirs and dams, and the 
signaling problems of submarines and torpedoes. It is well know that the fluid motion will be 
induced by the vibration of structure in contact with the fluid and therefore causes a significant 
increase in the kinetic energy of the whole system. The added virtual mass incremental factor 
(AVMI factor) is often used to denote the ratio between the kinetic energy of the fluid and that of 
the structure. 
The purpose of this study is to perform the free vibration analysis of a transversely isotropic 
magneto-electric-elastic plate in contact with water on one side only. In order to simplify the 
analysis, only two dimensional system are used in Cartesian coordinate (x,z). The constitutive 
equations of the stress, electric displacement and magnetic induction in terms of strain, electric 
field and magnetic field are introduced. Also the extended strain-displacement relation, which 
accounts both the linear Hook’s Law and Maxwell theory for magneto-electric-elastic solid are 
displayed. By imposing the Kirchhoff hypothesis for thin plate analysis, the governing equations 
including the equilibrium equations and Maxwell equations can be derived. 
The natural frequencies and the corresponding mode shapes of the plate with variable 
parameters including the electric and magnetic effects in the vacuum will be evaluated. Then 
based on the theory of Rayleigh quotient, the natural frequencies of the magneto-electric-elastic 
plate in contact with liquid can be investigated by using the added virtual mass incremental 
factor (AVMI factor), which represents the increase of the kinetic energy due to the presence of 
fluid. It has been postulated here that the mode shapes in the air are the same as those in the 
 3
the electric potential, magnetic potential, electric displacement components, and magnetic 
induction components, respectively; , i jc i jε , , ,  and i je i jq i jd i jµ  are the elastic, dielectric, 
piezoelectric, piezomagnetic, magnetoelectric, and magnetic constants, respectively. For 
transversely isotropic material, the relation 11 12 662c c c= +  holds. In this study, all these material 
constants are assumed to be constant. 
If the free charges and body electric current are set to be zero, the balance equations are  
 
2
2
x xz u
x z t
σ τ ρ∂ ∂ ∂+ =∂ ∂ ∂ , (8) 
 
2
2
xz z w
x z t
τ σ ρ∂ ∂ ∂+ =∂ ∂ ∂ , (9) 
 0x zD D
x z
∂ ∂+ =∂ ∂  (10) 
 0x zB B
x z
∂ ∂+ =∂ ∂  (11) 
where ρ  is the density of the material. 
In this report, the fundamental Kirchhoff hypothesis for small-deflection theory of simple 
bending for thin plate are taken, thus the following assumptions are used: 
(1) The deflection of the middle surface is small compared with the thickness of the thickness 
of the plate. The slope of the deflected surface is therefore very small and the square of the 
slope is a negligible quantity in comparison with unity. 
(2) The middle plane remains unstrained subsequent to bending. 
(3) Plane sections initially normal to the middle surface remain plane and normal to that 
surface after the bending. This means that the vertical shear strains, xzγ  is negligible. The 
 5
 
2
2x
wz
x
ε ∂= − ∂ . (19) 
For a harmonic time-dependent motion i te ω , we seek the solution of the extended 
displacement in the form of ( , ; ) ( , ) i tw x z t w x z e ω= , where the time-independent displacement is 
expressed as 
 
1
2
3
cos
cos
cos
sz
w a p
u e a
a px
φ
ϕ
x
px
⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥ ⎢≡ = ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦
 (20) 
and where s is the eigenvalue and ( 1, ,3)ia i = …  is the corresponding eigenvector to be 
determined, thus we have 
 / xp n Lπ=  (21) 
with n is a positive integer. In equation (20) and thereafter, the harmonic time-dependent factor 
i te ω  has been omitted for simplicity. Substitution of equation (20) into the strain-displacement 
relations (12)-(16) and subsequently into the constitutive relations (1)-(7) yields the extended 
traction vector 
 
1
2
3
cos
cos
cos
xz
sz
z
z
b px
t D e b px
B b px
σ⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥ ⎢≡ = ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦
. (22) 
Introducing two vectors 
 [ ] [ ]1 2 3 1 2 3, , , , , ,ta a a a b b b b= = t  (23) 
 7
