 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫 完整成果報告 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2611-E-001-001 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日 至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：黃 榮 鑑   中央研究院物理所 
方形射流與橫向流交會之三維流場構造研究 
Three-Dimensional Flow Structure of Square Jets in a Cross-flow 
摘要 
本研究計劃以實驗與直接數值模擬的方法，探討一方形射流垂直流入渠道橫向流後，
其近域交互作用的三維非穩定流場的特性與結構。計劃的執行以三年為期，包含直接數值
模擬解析與探討流場結構、型態與歷程，以及流場實驗量測與分析。模式的建構係植基於
連續方程式與那維爾−史托克方程式，離散的方法採用有限差分法，流場變數以交錯配置
的方式，數值解析則在矩形網格系統中進行。實驗係以可視化的方式進行，並搭配影像處
理的技巧，以質點圖像位移速度法來估算流場質點速度。計劃中所欲觀察與探討的近域流
場特性包括：由上游層流底床剪力層與射流交互作用而衍生的上流馬蹄形渦漩系統，在射
流與橫向流間混合層中之一系列 Kelvin-Helmholtz 不穩定性所導致環繞射流前緣的滾動渦
漩，從射流剪力層衍生出來的相對旋轉渦漩對 (CVP )的起源，以及由射流尾流區渠道底床
邊界層呈現向上尾流渦漩的成長情況。同時，亦將探討流場參數對於渦漩結構或型態變化
的影響效應，即雷諾數與射流−橫向流速度比對近域流場特性的影響。 
ABSTRACT 
In this project, direct numerical simulations and experimental studies are performed to 
investigate the three-dimensional unsteady flow interactions in the near field of a square jet 
issuing normal to a cross-flow. It is intended to spend three years to finish this project, including 
resolution and discussion of the structural type and evolution in the flow field by direct numerical 
simulation, and experimental investigation. The Navier-Stokes equations in finite-difference form 
are solved by time marching scheme in an inflexible rectangular staggered mesh system. Flow 
visualization and particle image displacement velocimetry are performed in the experiment. The 
near field flow features would be investigated here include, the presence of an upstream 
horseshoe vortex system which resulted from interaction between the approaching upstream 
laminar floor shear layer and transverse jet; the formation of a sequence of Kelvin-Helmholtz 
instability induced vortical rollers in the mixing layer between 
 3
which the vorticity realigns to form the CVP still remained unclear. In fact, upon visualizing the 
spatially close appearances of the CVP and the azimuthally oriented Kelvin-Helmholtz 
instabilityinduced shear layer rollers, many researchers assumed that the Kelvin-Helmholtz 
rollers form a sequence of upward tilted (at the back of the jet) closed circumferential vortex 
rings (similar to what occurs around free jets), one lying above another, and on the lateral edges 
of each vortex ring the vortices suitably reorient to form the CVP. On the other hand, Yuan et al. 
[16], in a recent large eddy simulation of a round jet in cross-flow, observed that the high 
streamwise velocities in the cross-flow, while interacting with the vertical velocity of the jet, 
create a skewed mixing layer on the lateral jet edges. According to them CVP originates from the 
quasi-steady vortices that form in the skewed mixing layer on each lateral edges of the jet. 
Furthermore, their observations also indicate the important fact that the vortices on the sides of 
the jet differ fundamentally from the vortex rings observed in free jets. However, the existing 
literature is still lacking clear evidence of the related physical flow evolution process and, 
therefore, a better understanding about the governing flow physics. Notably, recent experimental 
findings of Lim et al. [11] also indicate that as soon as the developed cylindrical vortex sheet 
emerges out of the jet pipe, in the presence of the cross-flow, it immediately gets folded up on 
both lateral edges to form the CVP. Importantly, Lim et al. [11] also did not observe any 
evidence of ring vortices surrounding the jet in its near field. Regarding the transient behavior of 
the CVP, it may be noted that in a recent experimental study dealing with the characterization of 
the organized large-eddy motions (coherent structures), Rivero et al. [17] observed that the CVP 
is not a steady feature of the jet in a cross-flow, rather the intensity of the two counterrotating 
vortices fluctuates strongly with time. 
On the other hand, with the advent of faster computers, attempts have been made to 
numerically simulate the flow development around a JICF (e.g., Coelho and Hunt [15], Sykes et 
al. [18], Rudman [19]), and made significant contribution in improving our understanding about 
the internal flow development. Among others, Claus and Vanka [20] used the k−e model and 
adopted a multigrid method to investigate the jet/cross-flow interaction. Demuren [21] solved the 
full Reynolds stress transport equations in his simulation, but the detailed view of the developed 
flow was not available due to low-resolution numerical results. However, a complete and 
accurate DNS study may provide a clear understanding about the flow evolution process and the 
internal flow physics, which may appear difficult to extract from experimental measurements. In 
recent years, vortex methods have also been used to investigate the three-dimensional evolution 
of temporally growing jets (e.g., Martin and Meiburg [22,23], Dham et al. [24]) and the stability 
of the vortex rings. More recently, Cortelezzi and Karagozian [25] used the vortex method to 
simulate the generation of vortices and their evolution detail in the near field of a transverse jet. 
As far as the source of inception of the CVP is concerned, it appears the predictions made by 
Yuan et al. [16], who suggest that the CVP originates from the folded jet shear layers on its 
lateral edges, are quite appropriate. However, much is left to be done to reveal the actual 
inception process. Moreover, the exact physical process of evolution of other experimentally 
observed flow phenomena, such as unsteady flow interactions in the nearwake, which is initiated 
through the growth of upright vortices from the downstream channel floor critical points, and the 
 5
the direction of the jet. Fully developed pipe flow profiles (e.g., White [26]) are used both at the 
jet-inlet and at the inlet section of the cross stream, and a unit length (when normalized by the jet 
width “d”) of the square-sectioned pipe supporting the jet is considered for the investigation. This 
allows the jet boundary layer to develop fully and naturally before it emerges into the cross-flow. 
The vertical (along the z direction) and the horizontal (along the y direction) lengths of the 
cross-flow channel have dimensions 9d and 6d, respectively, and its length upstream of the jet 
axis (z-axis) was taken as 4.5d. It may be noted that in order to capture the detailed 3D unsteady 
vortical interaction process associated with such flows (as reported in previous experimental 
findings), the growth of fully developed boundry layers both on the cross-flow channel floor and 
inside the jet pipe is quite essential, and the implementation of fully developed flow profiles at 
the jet and the cross-flow inlets ensures that. Moreover, the downstream channel exit was placed 
sufficiently far (19.5d) away from the jet orifice. Notably, since the basic characteristics of a jet 
in cross-flow are primarily dependent on the ratio of the momentum flux at the jet inlet to that at 
the cross-flow inlet, the same was parametrically represented by the velocity ratio R of the jet to 
the cross-flow at their respective inlet sections. Simulations are performed for two different 
values of the velocity ratio R, namely 2.5 and 3.5, and for the Reynolds number (based on the jet 
width and the average cross-flow inlet velocity) 225 and 300. A total of 51017×  well refined 
uniform control volumes are used to discretize the domain, which are verified to be fine enough 
to capture the minute details of the flow physics involved. 
 
 
FIG. 1. Schematic diagram showing the known vortical structures of the jet in cross-flow. 
 
III. GOVERNING EQUATIONS AND BOUNDARY CONDITIONS 
The predictions for three-dimensional unsteady interaction of a square jet with an oncoming 
cross-flow were obtained by numerically solving the following nondimensional 3D 
incompressible equations of continuity and momentum, 
0=⋅∇≡ uD   (1) 
u
Re
puuu t
21 ∇+∇−=⋅∇⋅+   (2) 
 7
in the configuration. The numerical method employed here is an improved version of the 
marker-and-cell (MAC) finite difference method of Harlow and Welch [27]. In the interior of the 
computational domain, the convective terms in the momentum equations are discretized by 
using a third order accurate upwind scheme, and the viscous terms are discretized using a fourth 
order accurate central difference scheme. For example, for 3i ≥ the spatial derivatives in 
convective and viscous terms are approximated as below.  
For 0u ≥k,j,i , we use 
x
uuuu
u
x
uu k,j,ik,j,ik,j,ik,j,ik,j,i δ
++−=∂
∂ +−−
6
236 111    
for 0u <k,j,i , we use 
x
uuuu
u
x
uu k,j,ik,j,ik,j,ik,j,ik,j,i δ
++−−=∂
∂ −++
6
236 112    
and a second order derivative in the diffusion term was approximated by 
2
2112
2
2
12
163016
)x(
uuuuu
x
u k,j,ik,j,ik,j,ik,j,ik,j,i
δ
−+−+−=∂
∂ ++−−    
The above numerical scheme is observed to produce time accurate results that are quite 
consistent with the existing experimental findings of Fric and Roshko [9] and Kelso et al.. [10] 
for a round jet, and a smooth flow transition was observed at the outflow boundary. In the 
neighborhood of the wall boundaries, where the flow is directed away from the wall for the 
discretization of the first order derivative in the convection terms, the third order upwind method 
was replaced by the second order central difference method instead of using the first order 
upwind method. For example, for i (i=1 being the solid wall) we use second order accurate 
central difference schemes, i.e., for 0u ≥k,j,i  we use 
x
uu
u
x
uu k,j,ik,j,ik,j,i δ
−=∂
∂ −+
2
11    
for 0u <k,j,i , we use 
x
uu
u
x
uu k,j,ik,j,ik,j,i δ
−−=∂
∂ +−
2
11    
and a second order derivative in the diffusion term was approximated by 
2
11
2
2 2
)x(
uuu
x
u k,j,ik,j,ik,j,i
δ
+−=∂
∂ +−    
 
Most terms in the momentum equations were solved by using an explicit computational 
 9
V. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
In this section we present details of a three-dimensional unsteady flow interaction process 
around a square jet issuing normal to a cross-flow, as obtained by direct numerical simulations. 
Figure 2 serves as a representative plot exhibiting the symmetry plane flow characteristics (as 
induced by the jet/cross-flow interaction), comprised of the presence of the upstream horseshoe 
vortex system, the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability-induced shear layer roller formation along the 
front jet/cross-flow interface, and the growth of unsteady wake vortices at an early stage st=6d of 
the transient flow evolution process. These are reminiscent of previous experimental findings 
dealing with the interaction of a round jet with an oncoming cross-flow. Besides exploring the 
detailed flow mechanism, particular emphases have been made to improve our understanding 
about the physical process of inception and the subsequent growth of the CVP, the process of 
evolution of the Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers, and the mechanism of growth of the unsteady upright 
wake vortices from the channel floor boundary layer and their eventual merging with the jet. To 
avoid any possible confusion, here we may mention that because of some plotting difficulty, the 
portion of jet streamlines within the vertical pipe in some of the figures (e.g., Figs. 2–4) was 
plotted separately and superimposed; however, others are drawn simultaneously.  
 
A. Horseshoe vortex system 
The horseshoe vortex, which is usually seen to develop for flow over wall-mounted bluff 
bodies, is observed to form here (Figs. 2 and 3) and surround [Figs. 4(a) and 4(b)] the lateral jet 
edges, as the oncoming cross-flow near the channel floor (z = 0) bifurcates laterally upon 
encountering with the emerging jet. The time-evolving upstream near-wall streamline patterns on 
the vertical symmetry plane (Figs. 2 and 3), together with the instantaneous streamlines 
surrounding the jet as presented in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b), reveal the structural evolution of the 
horseshoe vortex. Here we may mention that the jet orifice on the plane z = 0 covers the area s 
( 0.5x0.5- ≤≤ ) ×  ( 0.5y0.5- ≤≤ ). Due to the dominant unsteady nature of eruption of the 
near-wake vortices from the channel floor and their subsequent entrainment into the mainstream 
in the form of upright vortices (as it will gradually unfold), and because of spontaneous upward 
fluid motion from the downstream node (e.g., Figs. 2 and 3), two tails of the horseshoe vortex 
also experience an unsteady process [Figs. 4(a) and 4(b)] of growth during their downstream 
extension and while being entrained into the main stream. For example, sometimes [e.g., Fig. 4(a)] 
both the tails of the horseshoe vortex are seen to get lifted away from the channel floor and join 
the mainstream, and sometimes one tail gets lifted upward, whereas the other tail remained 
extended somewhat horizontally. As the presentation of the work progresses, further insight into 
the physical process of evolution of the horseshoe system may be obtained. Moreover, upon 
analyzing the data obtained from different higher orders (fourth and seventh orders), accurate 
schemes, and with much refined grids, we observed that the overall upstream structure of the 
horseshoe vortex (Figs. 2–4), for the presently investigated range of flow parameters, remained 
unchanged and it contained only one vortex loop. 
 
 11
phase of the jet shear layer, as resulted due to the impact of the jet with the oncoming cross-flow. 
A more complete three-dimensional view revealing such a Kelvin-Helmholtz instability-induced 
roller formation has been presented in Fig. 5(b). The formation of such rollers, along the front jet 
interface, probably indicates their quasi-steady nature of growth in the region. However, as will 
be shown later, along the downstream side of the jet these instability-induced rollers exhibit their 
dominant unsteady characteristic. As far as the three-dimensional structural evolution details of 
such rollers are concerned, it has been observed (e.g., Fig. 7) that the Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers do 
not form closed circumferential vortex rings. In fact their open tails upon being entrained upward 
along the jet lee side eventually join the CVP. For the sake of completeness, in Fig. 6 we present 
the process of growth of the Kelvin-Helmholtz vortices for the velocity ratio R=3.5 and Re =225. 
Notably, with the increase in the velocity ratio, the Kelvin-Helmholtz vortices are seen to gain 
strength and even their numbers are also seen to increase. 
 
FIG. 4. (a) Instantaneous streamlines showing spatial evolution of the horseshoe vortex at t =9.0. 
Re=225, R=2.5. (b) Instantaneous streamlines showing spatial evolution of the 
horseshoe vortex at t=21.0. Re=225, R=2.5. 
 13
the CVP takes place due to the twisting and folding of the jet shear layers that develop on the 
lateral side walls of the pipe supporting the jet, and not due to reorientation of the 
Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers. In view of these existing differences regarding the origin of inception 
of the CVP, in the present study we opted to investigate the issue in greater detail. At a glance, 
here Fig. 8) we quickly present the topological arrangement of the developed shear layer critical 
points on the channel floor, including several foci, saddles; and nodes. Later we shall address 
how flow evolution from these topologically important critical points remains inseparably 
associated with the organized development of the downstream wake, and how the upward lifted 
vortices from various spiraling foci (Fig. 8) continue to support the streamwise growth of the 
CVP. 
 
 
FIG. 5. (a) Contours of vy vortices indicating the growth of Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers on the 
vertical symmetry plane sy=0d at t=21. Re =225, R=2.5. (b) Development of 
Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers at t=21, along the front jet interface as revealed by contours 
of vy vortices. Re=225, R=2.5. 
 15
 
FIG. 8. Topological arrangement of the shear layer critical points close to the channel floor 
(z=0.1) at t=9.0. Re=225, R=2.5. 
 
To begin with, in Figs. 9(a) and 9(b) we plot the instantaneous streamlines with several 
different generic origins, broadly capturing the important physical aspects of the near-field flow 
behavior. Notably, the blue streamlines in Fig. 9(a) constitute a Kelvin-Helmholtz roller on the 
front jet interface for R=2.5 and t=21. The red streamlines constitute the horseshoe vortex 
surrounding the jet orifice, and the black streamlines issue from the two lateral edges of the jet 
pipe. Firstly, Fig. 9(a) clearly reveals that the black streamlines, together with the blue 
streamlines, take the active role in the structural development of a pair of counter-rotating 
vortices, the CVP. Secondly, the streamwise extended blue streamlines constituting the two tails 
of the Kelvin-Helmholtz roller, as depicted in Fig. 9(a), virtually surround all the shear layer fluid 
emanating from the two lateral sides of the jet pipe. On the other hand, the evolution of the red 
streamlines (constituting the horseshoe system) reveals that the horseshoe vortex tails initially 
turn around the jet orifice (while maintaining significant distance from the jet), and eventually 
during their far downstream extension they are entrained into the main stream in an asymmetric 
way. The local flow unsteadiness in the wake, together with the dominance of transverse pressure 
gradient in the region, contributes to the unsteady and asymmetric ways of lifting of the 
horseshoe vortex tails. Furthermore, the spontaneous upward fluid motion from the nodes, 
situated immediately behind the jet (e.g., Figs. 2 and 3), forces the horseshoe vortex tails to leave 
the channel floor. Notably, Fig. 9(a) makes it quite clear that the vortices originating from the 
horseshoe system cannot be the source of inception of the CVP. Therefore, the inception of the 
CVP either takes place within the lateral jet-pipe shear layer or through rotation of the tails of the 
 17
governing flow physics for the presently investigated square jet more closely and address the 
issues concerning similarity between the two flows. Firstly, it is important to note that the 
physical process of growth of the CVP and the mechanism of entrainment of the 
Kelvin-Helmholtz vortices into the CVP core (along the jet lee-side) remained very much similar 
for the circular [e.g., Fig. 3(a) in Lim et al. [11]], the elliptic (Figs. 4 and 5 in New et al. [33]), 
and the presently simulated [e.g., Figs. 9(a) and 9(b)] square jets. In addition, it may be carefully 
noted that the simulated flow details, as presented in Figs. 5(a), 5(b), and 6, reveal in the laminar 
range of Reynolds number (e.g., Re=225) the Kelvin-Helmholtz vortices, which formed along the 
front side of the jet, maintained a quasi-steady-state while always remaining attached to it, and 
there appears no frontal vortex shedding. As a result, the CVP over the orifice, as evident from 
Fig. 10, is seen to grow with a visibly single deck structure during the course of flow evolution. 
Here we may mention that the evolving streamwise vortices for the flow, on the corresponding 
planes, were also found to maintain a single deck appearance. Notably, the simulated kidney 
(mushroom) shaped CVP in Fig. 10, evolving from the folded lateral jet shear layers, basically 
corresponds to the middle layer “primary CVP” as classified by New et al. [33] in their Fig. 8. 
Whereas the growth of the “secondary CVP” (as New et al. [33] clearly mention) is a special 
feature of the low aspect-ratio elliptic jets, and they are not observed to form with circular or 
square jets (e.g., see Refs. [11,32]). Furthermore, since the experiments in Refs. [32,33] are 
conducted well within the turbulent range of the Reynolds number, the related governing flow 
physics needs to be analyzed more carefully. Notably, as far as the reason behind the presence of 
the “primary unsteady kidney vortices” (upper deck), as reported in the above-mentioned 
experiments [e.g., Figs. 8(a) in Ref. [32] and Fig. 8 in Ref. [33]] is concerned, they are obtained 
by capturing the periodically shedded leading edge vortices (e.g., Figs. 3 and 4 in Ref. [33]), at a 
much higher Reynolds number (see also Ref. [32]). To be specific, Haven and Kurosaka [32] in 
their Fig. 8(a) present both single and the double deck structures of the CVP; in one case they 
capture the periodically shedded leading edge vortex in their LIF image, and in the other case 
they do not. Since the formation of the upper deck CVP remained intrinsically associated with the 
phenomenon of frontal vortex shedding, and since there observed to take place no such vortex 
shedding for the presently investigated laminar flow, the physical process, therefore, justifies why 
the CVP should maintain the single deck structure (Fig. 10) here. Further investigation on the 
physical flow evolution process at a much higher Reynolds number is in progress, and we intend 
to address such issues in greater detail in one of our future works. 
 
D. Unsteadiness and asymmetry of the wake structure 
Within the framework of the present paper it is a rather difficult task to address such issues 
in greater detail. However, we would prefer to extract some useful information mostly from the 
figures that we have already presented. Firstly, as we have already noted [in Figs. 4(a), 4(b), 9(a), 
and 9(b)], the horseshoe vortex tails behind the jet exhibit unsteady processes of evolution, 
particularly during leaving the channel floor and while being entrained into the main stream. 
Such a flow development is basically initiated and controlled by the unsteady nature of eruption 
of the downstream channel floor shear layer and their subsequent entrainment into the jet core in 
 19
 
 
FIG. 9. (Color) 3D evolutional details of the instantaneous streamlines: (i) constituting a 
Kelvin-Helmholtz roller (in blue color), (ii) constituting the horseshoe vortex system 
(in red), and (iii) those (in black) passing through the lateral edges of the jet orifice. 
t=21, R =2.5, Re=225. (b) (Color) 3D evolutional details of the instantaneous 
streamlines: (i) constituting two Kelvin-Helmholtz roller (in blue and green), (ii) 
constituting the horseshoe vortex system (in red), and (iii) those (in black) passing 
through the lateral edges of the jet orifice. t=9, R=3.5, Re=225. (c) Vorticity 
corelines of the CVP in the neighborhood of the jet orifice and the evolution of 
streamlines issuing from the bases of CVP corelines are shown here. The upright 
vortex corelines issuing from the foci F1 and F2 (e.g., Fig. 8) are also plotted at 
t=21.0. Re=225, R=2.5. (d) A three-dimensional view of the simulated corelines of 
various vortices in the near-field of the jet. Here H ( LC1 ,
RC1 ,
LC2 ,
RC2 ,
LC3 ,
RC3 ), 
( LW1 ,
RW1 ,
LW2 ,
RW2 ), and (F1, F2, F3, F4) denote the horseshoe vortex coreline, 
CVP corelines, wall-vortex corelines, and the upright vortex corelines, respectively, 
at t=14, Re=225, R=2.5  
 21
 
 
FIG. 9. (Continued). 
 
 23
node there. From this high pressure (node) region fluid is expected to move all the way towards 
the low-pressure jet region. The symmetry plane streamline plots as revealed by Figs. 11 and 12, 
and even Figs. 2 and 3, clearly demonstrate such a flow evolution behavior. At a further 
downstream location (for 3.7x ≥ ) the formation of another high pressure region coincides with 
the development of the second node in the area. Interestingly, the existence of a relative high 
pressure region on the channel floor near x=2.7 corresponds to the base of the line on which the 
near-wall downstream moving fluid from the first node and the upstream moving fluid from the 
second node meet and subsequently leave the channel floor vertically upward to meet the jet (Fig. 
12). To this extent, the pressure variation across the channel section can effectively explain the 
near-field flow development. Herewith, it is important to note that due to the unsteady character 
of the wake flow, not only the location of the nodes (e.g., Figs. 11 and 12) on y=0 continued to 
vary with time, but the entire near-wall topological structure of the flow, as is evident from Figs. 
8 and 14, continued to oscillate with time. 
 
 
FIG. 11. Sectional view of the flow development on the vertical symmetry plane (y=0) 
at t =13.65. Re=225, R=2.5. 
 
To gain further insight into the process of the unsteady To gain further insight into the 
process of the unsteady and asymmetric nature of the flow evolution, in Fig. 15 we demonstrate 
the temporal growth of the w velocity profiles over a section of the cross-flow channel. Since 
within 50 ≤≤ x  the jet velocity swd dominates over the cross-flow (w) velocity (e.g., Fig. 12), 
 25
 
FIG. 13. Iso-contours of the dynamic pressure spd on the vertical symmetry plane (y=0) at t 
=22.0. Re=225, R=2.5. 
 
FIG. 14. Instantaneous streamlines depicting the flow topology near (z=0.1) the channel floor 
at t=22.0. Re=225, R=2.5. 
 
 27
the jet. 
At this point it is important to note that in the near-wake region CVP remains the most 
active [Figs. 9(a) and 9(b)] feature of the flow, and through the inward dynamics of its vortices 
CVP effectively entrains the downstream vortical floor shear layer fluid into the jet core during 
the onward passage. To be more precise, from vortex dynamics we know that a pair of 
counter-rotating vortices (similar to those in the CVP) with equal and opposite strength G and 
separated by a distance 2a, will suck the neighboring cross-flow shear layer fluid towards the jet 
core with a speed about G/pa. Readers may refer to the recent work by Sau [29,30] for further 
details, where an elaborate and extensive study on the entrainment process, as governed by the 
dynamics of the dominant streamwise vortex pairs, has been provided. 
 
F. Surface and sectional flow structure 
As far as the topological flow development upstream of the jet and within the jet section is 
concerned, Fig. 8 (and also Fig. 14) reveals the formation of a node (N1) at the upstream central 
point (−0.5,0) of the jet orifice and a saddle (S2) near (0.35,0), which falls inside the jet orifice 
area. Some of the upstream moving streamlines originating from the mode N1 are either observed 
to meet at a saddle point S1 on the vertical symmetry plane near (-1.4,0), or they join the 
bifurcation lines from both sides, which pass through the saddle (S1). The downstream moving 
streamlines originating from the node N1 are seen to bifurcate while approaching the saddle point 
S2. Furthermore, the streamlines issuing out of the node N1 were observed to remain enveloped 
by the bifurcation lines originating from the upstream saddle S1, and at the rear side of the jet 
they converge into two slightly asymmetrically placed spiraling foci F1 and F2, formed near 
x=0.55. Behind these two foci (Fig. 8) there appears a second node N2 near (0.8,0) on the plane 
of symmetry y=0, which may be better viewed from Fig. 3. It shows that the node is actually 
located about half a jet diameter above the cross-flow wall and acts as a source, pumping out 
fluid in every direction. The streamline pattern in Fig. 8 also reveals the existence of a second 
pair of foci (F3 and F4) close to x=3.3, where some of the deflected streamlines originating 
outside the horseshoe vortex system are seen to converge. The accumulated floor vortices were 
observed to directly leave the cross-flow channel floor from these spiraling critical points (foci) 
in the form of upright wake vortices (e.g., Figs. 16 and 17). Slightly upstream of this second pair 
of foci the formation of (Fig. 8) three saddles S3, S4, and S5 was observed. Two of them (S3 and 
S5) remain somewhat symmetrically placed, one lying on each side of the vertical symmetry 
plane, and the third one (S4) is observed to form on the line of symmetry itself. As we move 
downstream of the second pair of foci, the formation of three critical points (S6, N3, and S7) was 
observed near x=4.7 in the vicinity of the vertical symmetry plane, comprising one node N3 on 
the symmetry plane sy=0d itself and two slightly asymmetrically placed saddles S6 and S7, one 
situated on each side of y = 0. It is important to note that the simulated flow topology around the 
square jet, as obtained from the present investigation, is quite consistent with the topological 
sketch for a round jet as presented by Kelso et al. [10] in their Fig. 24. The only difference that 
one may observe here is the relative shifting of the two pairs of foci (F1, F2 and F3, F4), with 
 29
 
 
FIG. 16. (Color) Upright vortex formation from the channel floor shear layer, their lifting 
from the topological critical points (F1, F2, F3, F4), and the subsequent entrainment 
process into the jet core, at t=9. Re=225, R=2.5. 
 
 
 
FIG. 17. Upright vortex formation from the channel floor shear layer, their lifting from the 
topological critical points (F1, F2, F3, F4), and the subsequent entrainment process 
into the jet core, at t =21. Re=225, R=2.5. 
 31
down-stream upright wake vortices. Notably, the tails of the horseshoe vortex, while being 
extended downstream, were observed to be entrained upward in an asymmetric and unsteady way, 
to join the locally evolving CVP. As far as the source of inception of the CVP is concerned, the 
present simulation clearly establishes the fact that the CVP originates from the skewed shear 
layers which develop on each lateral side wall of the jet pipe, and such findings remain quite 
consistent with the predictions recently made by Yuan et al. [16]. During unsteady downstream 
evolution, CVP, through its inflow type dynamics, continued to entrain the locally developed 
wake vortices into the jet core. The simulated findings also indicate that the Kelvin-Helmholtz 
instability induced rollers, which develop in the front mixing layer between the jet and the 
cross-flow, do not form closed circumferential vortex rings. The extended open tails of such 
rollers, upon being entrained upward along the jet lee side, however, quickly join the already 
existed CVP. The present simulations also numerically confirm the fact that the downstream 
moving channel floor shear layer, while approaching a set of well developed floor critical points 
(foci), spirals around and subsequently leaves the channel floor vertically upward in the form of 
upright wake vortices. Such a finding appears to be quite consistent with the existing 
experimental observations for a round jet as made by Fric and Roshko [9]. Moreover, the 
spontaneous flow evolution from a near-wall symmetry plane (y=0) node, which formed just 
behind the jet, is observed to control much of the near-field wake evolution process. It may be 
important to mention that during temporal flow evolution, the physical process of growth of the 
topological floor critical points and their relative arrangement, as a whole, was observed to 
remain invariant (except for some rare temporal modulations) for a range of values of the 
Reynolds number and the jet to cross-flow velocity ratio, and the entire mechanism remained 
quite consistent with the similar experimental predictions for a round jet, as made by Kelso et al. 
[10]. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] C. J. Baker, J. Fluid Mech. 95, 347 (1979). 
[2] A. W. Thomas, Phys. Fluids 30, 283 (1987). 
[3] C. V. Seal, C. R. Smith, O. Akin, and D. Rockwell, J. Fluid Mech. 286, 117 (1995). 
[4] A. Sau, R. R. Hwang, T. W. Sheu, and W. C. Yang, Phys. Rev. E 68, 056303 (2003). 
[5] J. Andreopoulos, J. Fluid Mech. 157, 163 (1985). 
[6] A. Krothapalli, L. Lourenco, and J. M. Buchlin, AIAA J. 28 414 (1990). 
[7] R. M. Kelso and A. J. Smits, Phys. Fluids 7, 153 (1995). 
[8] J. S. Shang, D. L. McMaster, N. Scaggs, and M. Buck, AIAA J. 27, 323 (1989). 
[9] T. F. Fric and A. Roshko, J. Fluid Mech. 279, 1 (1994). 
[10] R. M. Kelso, T. T. Lim, and A. E. Perry, J. Fluid Mech. 306, 111 (1996). 
 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫; 成 果 報 告   期中進度報告 
方形射流與橫向流交會之三維流場構造研究 
Three-Dimensional Flow Structure of Square Jets in a Cross-Flow 
 
計畫類別：5 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 94－2611－E－001－001－ 
執行期間：94 年 8月 1日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：黃榮鑑 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告 5完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
       □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：中央研究院物理研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 95 年 9 月 20 日 
 
 2
I. INTRODUCTION 
Vortical flow evolution around a jet in cross-flow (JICF) has been of considerable interest 
for some time and the subject of several investigations. This is mainly due to its wide application 
in the vast array of engineering problems and the complex mechanisms of interaction between the 
jet and the cross-stream, comprising a horseshoe vortex system that forms upstream of the jet, the 
developed Kelvin-Helmholtz shear-instability-induced vortical rollers around the front jet/ 
cross-flow interface, the counterrotating vortex pair (CVP), and the interacting unsteady 
downstream upright wake vortices. Over the years, the formation of a horseshoe-type vortex, 
around surface mounted obstacles in an uniform stream, is reported by several investigators (e.g., 
Baker [1], Thomas [2], Seal et al. [3], Sau et al. [4]). The presence of similar horseshoe-type 
vortices upstream of transverse jets, resulting from the interaction between the jet and the 
upstream crossflow boundary layer, has been experimentally observed by Andreopoulos [5], 
Krothapalli et al. [6], Kelso and Smits [7], Shang et al. [8] and Fric and Roshko [9]. The 
approaching cross-flow wall boundary layer, while encountering an adverse pressure gradient 
ahead of the jet, separates to form the horseshoe vortices. The observations made by Kelso and 
Smits [7] further reveal that the behavior of a horseshoe system, which forms due to an 
interaction between the transverse jets and the laminar boundary layers, can be steady, oscillating, 
and coalescing, depending on a combination of values of the important flow parameters, such as 
the Reynolds number and the jet to cross-flow velocity ratio. Their results also suggest a strong 
connection between the unsteadiness in the horseshoe vortex system and the unsteady behavior of 
the upright vortices that develop in the wake. Among other near-field features of the developed 
flow, the growth of instability-induced leading edge shear layer hanging vortices along the 
jet/cross-flow interface is worth mentioning, as they continue to dominate the initial portion of 
the jet. Recent flow visualization studies conducted by Fric and Roshko [9], Kelso et al. [10], and 
Lim et al. [11] confirm the existence and growth of such shear layer vortices on the initial portion 
of the jet, both along the front side and the lee side. These vortices are generated due to the 
Kelvin-Helmholtz-like instability of the annular shear layer emanating from the jet orifice. 
Another important feature of the flow is the growth of a counter-rotating vortex pair, which 
begins to take form in the jet near field and becomes dominant in the far field, where they appear 
synonymous with the jet. Apparently the CVP is a manifestation of the mean flow as induced by 
the impulse of the vertical jet on the cross-flow. The trajectory of the jet is composed of (i) the 
transverse jet motion carrying it away from the wall, as initiated by the initial impulse of the jet, 
and (ii) the motion carrying the trajectory in the direction of the cross-flow. The latter is supposed 
to be the result of entrainment of the cross-flow fluid by the jet. This flow structure has been 
documented in a large number of experiments, and is believed to influence many of the complex 
interactions between the jet and the downstream boundary layer. Notably, a number of 
experimental investigations have been carried out to identify the origin of inception of the CVP. 
Andreopoulos [5], Perry and Lim [12], Broadwell and Breidenthal [13], Andreopoulos and Rodi 
[14], Coehlo and Hunt [15], and many others propose that the original source of the CVP is the 
vortex sheet which emanates from the jet shear layer; however, the related mechanism through 
 4
process of merging of these upright vortices with the main jet body, as presented specially by Fric 
and Roshko [9] and Kelso et al. [10], by and large has been left for future investigation in greater 
detail. 
The above presented brief review of the existing literature reveals that while there exists 
numerous well studied recent experimental investigations dedicated to unfolding the complex 
interaction process of a jet with an oncoming cross-flow, the computational contribution to such 
findings remained very limited. This is probably due to the inherent complexity and the sensitive 
nature of the developed three-dimensional (3D) transient flow interaction process, which is 
difficult to simulate to its fullest detail without properly resolving the involved near-wall flow 
phenomena within the channel boundary layer. In addition, previous experimental findings 
suggest that proper care for facilitating the natural growth of boundary layers on the cross-flow 
channel floor (where the jet is injected) and on the surrounding jet walls is indispensable in the 
genesis and evolution of the coherent structures that develop downstream. On the other hand, a 
good numerical simulation can provide more complete information about the detailed flow 
interaction process. The purpose of the present DNS approach is to provide a complete and 
accurate simulation of the complex three-dimensional interaction process between a square jet 
and the oncoming cross-flow, and an in-depth analysis of the time-evolving flow structure, 
leading to significant improvement in our understanding about the governing flow physics. 
Adequate precautions, in terms of grid resolution and the accuracy of the employed numerical 
schemes, have been taken to capture all the possible flow phenomena that are reported in recent 
experiments. At this point we may mention that while most of the previous studies on the topic 
deal with round jets, the mechanism of evolution and the governing flow physics for the presently 
investigated square jet is expected to reveal some similarities, even though there may appear 
small quantitative differences in the local flow properties in the close vicinity of the jet orifice. In 
the present simulations, therefore, we intend to resolve (i) the structural evolution of the 
Kelvin-Helmholtz instability-induced shear layer rollers, particularly as they approach the lee 
side of the jet, (ii) the source of inception of the CVP, (iii) the process of growth of the up-right 
wake vortices from the cross-flow channel floor and their entrainment into the jet core; and (iv) 
the important topologically invariant flow features. An extensive investigation about the detailed 
flow evolution process from the developed topological critical points, and their connection to the 
rest of the flow, is intended to be presented here. 
 
II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PHYSICAL PROBLEM 
Direct numerical simulations are conducted to investigate the vortical flow development 
around a square jet issuing normally into a cross-flow. The jet begins as a square sectioned pipe 
flow which issues into the flat plate cross-flow boundary layer through an orifice. The pipe 
supporting the jet is placed symmetrically (Fig. 1) with respect to the width of the cross-flow 
channel floor. We consider an orthogonal Cartesian coordinate system where the origin is at the 
center of the jet orifice, coinciding with the cross-flow channel floor, and x and y axes are 
directed along the two axes of symmetry of the orifice (Fig. 1), whereas the z axis is taken along 
 6
In the above nondimensional equations in primitive variables, u  represents the velocity 
vector and p is the dynamic pressure. Here all lengths have been nondimensionalized with respect 
to the width d of the square jet. The velocities are normalized with respect to the average 
incoming velocity U at the cross-flow channel inlet, and the pressure is nondimensionalized with 
respect to 2Uρ . The Reynolds number is defined as Re = Ud/ν, where n is the kinematic 
viscosity and ∇  is the spatial gradient operator. 
 
Boundary conditions 
The nonslip wall boundary conditions, u = v= w = 0, are used in the present study. The 
requirement that there can be no tangential velocity component is responsible for the generation 
of vortices at the wall and the development of the viscous wall boundary layer. 
A zero gradient outflow condition was implemented at the downstream end of the cross-flow 
channel, and the exit was placed sufficiently far s24dd away from the cross-flow inlet. At the exit 
we use, therefore, 
0=∂
∂=∂
∂=∂
∂
x
w
x
v
x
u    
At the inlet section of the jet we use the following fully developed axial inlet velocity profile 
(White [26]) inlet u = [ 0, 0, w(x,y) ] 
),y,x()y,x(w βαπ= 3
48    
),y,x(
i
)tanh(d
....,,i
βξπ−=α ∑
∞
= 531
55
1921    
3
531
21 21211
i
)xcos(
)cosh(
])ycosh[(()()y,x(
....,,i
/)i( ξ
ξ
ξ−−−=β ∑∞
=
−    
d
i)i(
2
π=ξ    
A similar fully developed axial flow profile inlet u  =( u(y) ,0,0) was used (see White [26], p. 
120) at the inlet section of the cross-flow channel. The implementation of such fully developed 
inlet profiles allowed us to shorten the inlet channel lengths without affecting the natural growth 
of the boundary layers both on the cross-flow channel floor upstream of the jet orifice and along 
the jet boundary. The other velocity components at the inlets are set to zero, so that any possible 
swirling at the inlets is ignored. 
 
IV. NUMERICAL METHODS 
We employ a finite volume-based method to discretize and solve the set of Eqs. (1) and (2) 
in primitive variables, together with the boundary conditions specified above, on a high 
resolution uniform staggered grid system, which prevents the occurrence of pressure oscillation 
 8
scheme, but the coupling between the pressure and the velocities was implicit. This semiimplicit 
formulation was solved using the successive overrelaxation (SOR) method to accelerate 
convergence. The above-mentioned numerical scheme has been used successfully by several 
investigators to solve various fluid dynamic problem. For example, among others, recently Peng 
et al. 28], Sau [29,30], and Chiang et al. [31] have efficiently implemented the scheme and the 
solution algorithm to study the onset of 3D-flow development through different complex 
geometries. In order to be sure about the correct choice of the computational scheme, we have run 
a series of test cases extending over several months with different fourth order and seventh order 
(e.g., Peng et al. [28]) accurate schemes in as many as seven Pentium IV processors; however, 
the present method was found to be efficient enough in correctly predicting the associated flow 
phenomena that are reported in a number of recent experimental findings. 
The twofold solutions of the velocity field were obtained as follows. First the velocity 
components are advanced explicitly using the previous state of the flow, having calculated the 
combined influence of convection, diffusion, and pressure gradients through a time step dt. The 
solution is then advanced in time using a semi-implicit scheme that is formally second-order 
accurate. The time step dt was so chosen that it always satisfies the CFL stability criteria. In the 
subsequent fold, the adjustment of pressure and velocity is done by an iterative process to ensure 
mass conservation in each cell. This iterative correction of the velocity field through the implicit 
continuity equation is equivalent to the solution of Poisson equation of pressure. The process is 
repeated successively until sum of D values for all the cells became -410 . 
Computations are carried out on a system of PENTIUM IV processors. Most runs employed 
a spatial resolution of 24471100 ××  grids. In addition to the main production runs, several short 
simulations were performed to examine the necessity of using different higher order 
discretization schemes for the convective terms in order to capture the possible presence of 
experimentally observed flow features known for round jets. It may be noted that each simulation 
performed here takes about 2500 h of CPU time in the above-mentioned computer system. A grid 
sensitivity study was performed at various stages of computation to verify the quantitative 
accuracy of the results presented in the next section and the optimum grid resolution was used. 
To preserve the essence of the realistic flow nature, we performed the very extensive and careful 
flow simulation in the full domain of the physical problem. In order to capture the important flow 
interaction along the jet/cross-flow interface and the growth of upright vortices from the 
downstream cross-flow floor shear layer, well resolved fine and uniform grids are particularly 
used in the computation, which efficiently reproduced the important flow features as 
experimentally observed by Fric and Roshko [9] and Kelso et al. [10]. In view of the sensitive 
nature of the flow interaction, the use of uniform grids was preferred to especially avoid any 
possible interpolation error that could arise out of the non uniformity of the grids. 
 
 10
 
 
 
FIG. 2. Streamline pattern on the vertical symmetry plane (y=0) at t=6.0. Re=225, R =2.5. 
 
 
 
FIG. 3. Flow evolution pattern on the vertical symmetry plane (y=0) at t=9.0. 
Re=225, R =2.5. 
 
B. The jet shear layer instability 
Notably, Figs. 2 and 3 indicate the process of growth of the shear layer rollers along the 
upstream jet interface, which are formed due to the Kelvin-Helmholtz-like instability of the 
jet/cross-flow mixing layer. Upon interacting with the oncoming cross-flow the jet is observed to 
quickly bend along the downstream direction just after exiting from the orifice. The sequential 
symmetry plane growth of such vortical rollers along the front side of the jet is also evident from 
the contours of vy vortices as presented in Fig. 5(a), and they clearly demonstrate the unstable 
 12
It may be noted that the growth of such Kelvin-Helmholtz vortices along the initial portion 
of a round jet has been experimentally predicted by Fric and Roshko [9] and Kelso et al. [10]. It 
appears that the over all basic mechanism and the nature of formation of such rollers remain 
similar, both for the round jet as well as for the presently investigated square jet. However, owing 
to initial curvature variation of these jets at their entry, it is possible that there will be some 
quantitative difference in the local flow properties, such as relative differences in the strength and 
in the extent of spanwise shifting of the Kelvin-Helmholtz and the horseshoe vortex tails away 
from the jet. Notably for single jets, it has been observed that (e.g., Sau [29,30]) the azimuthal 
perturbation of a jet is basically controlled by the streamwise dynamics of the developed vortices. 
To be explicit, an asymmetric (rectangular or elliptic) jet, in absence of a cross-flow and upon 
entering into an expanded zone, suffers a sequence of azimuthal perturbation. During streamwise 
evolution, depending on the outflow or inflow type nature of the dynamics of the dominant 
streamwise vortices, one side of the jet gradually expands outward along a plane of symmetry 
while getting compressed on the other symmetry plane. As a consequence the initial upstream 
structure of the jet gets deformed in such a way that, at a downstream location the local jet 
structure switches its axes of orientation. Whereas a square jet is known to produce a 45° axis 
switching (e.g., Sau [29]). On the other hand, as it will gradually unfold, the governing flow 
physics for two mutually interacting jets is far more complex, but interesting. 
In order to explore the physical process of growth of the Kelvin-Helmholtz vortices as they 
approach the downstream side of the jet, in Fig. 7 we depict the detailed 3D evolution process of 
a Kelvin-Helmholtz roller. The streamlines in Fig. 7 are so chosen that they constitute a single 
roller. Such a figure definitely reveals the fact that the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability-induced 
rollers do not form closed vortex rings. In fact the open tails of such rollers, while approaching 
the downstream side of the jet, are continuously being entrained upward along the lee side. 
Moreover, the presence of a sequence of Kelvin-Helmholtz vortices along the front side of the jet 
and the absence of similar vortex loops at the lee side, as revealed by the vy vorticity contours in 
Fig. 5(a), also justify the fact that the Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers do not form closed loops or rings. 
Notably, a similar 3D structural growth (e.g., Fig. 7) of the Kelvin-Helmholtz vortices were 
observed to take place at every instant of time, and the downstream extended tails of the 
Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers eventually joined the locally evolving CVP. 
 
C. Origin of the counter-rotating vortex pair 
While the mechanism of formation of the CVP has been addressed in several recent 
experiments and simulations (e.g., Refs. [10,16–18,25,32]), the issue of the exact source of its 
inception remained debatable. To be specific, experimental findings of Kelso et al. [10] and their 
interpretations (in their Fig. 9) suggest that the shear instability-induced Kelvin-Helmholtz 
vortices (which form along the front and the lateral sides of the jet) while extending downstream, 
reorient themselves suitably to form the CVP. Cortelezzi and Karagozian [25] also predict a 
similar roll-up and the folding processes of the jet shear layer, leading to the inception of the CVP. 
On the other hand, the recent numerical findings of Yuan et al. [16] suggest that the inception of 
 14
 
FIG. 6. Development of Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers for the velocity ratio R=3.5 as revealed by 
contours of vy vortices. t=9, Re =225. 
 
 
 
FIG. 7. Three-dimensional evolution of streamlines participating in the formation of a 
Kelvin-Helmholtz vortex at t=21.0. Re=225, R=2.5. 
 
 
 
 16
Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers. For further clarity, Fig. 9(b) presents a similar near-field flow 
evolution pattern for R=3.5 and t=9, where streamlines with green and the blue constitute two 
different Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers. Notably, the evolutional details of the streamlines in Fig. 9(b) 
display a very similar flow physics, as revealed by Fig. 9(a). The important additional 
information that may be obtained from Fig. 9(b) is that the process of joining of two different 
Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers at the back side of the jet remains very much consistent with the 
mechanism recently proposed by Lim et al. [11]. 
In order to further analyze the basic process of inception of the CVP, in Fig. 9(c) we plot 
their (CVP) vorticity corelines in the neighborhood of the jet orifice, together with streamlines 
originating from the vicinity of their bases. The corelines of the upright vortices which originate 
from the floor critical points F1 and F2 (e.g., Fig. 8) have also been plotted in Fig. 9(c). At this 
point we may mention that, throughout the unsteady flow evolution process CVP corelines are 
observed to emanate from the central part of the skewed lateral jet wall shear layers. Moreover, 
their inception [as represented by the corelines in Figs. 9(c) and 9(d)] is always observed to take 
place slightly below the jet orifice (on the entry plane). This means that the cross-flow, upon 
encountering the jet, not only deflects the lateral jet shear layer azimuthally upon emergence, but 
up to a certain extent also influences the jet shear layers within the supporting pipe to become 
skewed. During the process, the inception of the CVP takes place within the skewed vortical 
lateral jet shear layers. Moreover, the streamlines issuing from the bases of the CVP corelines 
[Fig. 9(c)] possess vortices of opposite sign and their sense of orientation remained the same as 
the locally evolving CVP [Fig. 9(a)]. However, the extended tails of the Kelvin-Helmholtz rollers, 
as may be noted from Figs. 9(a) and 9(b), closely support the subsequent downstream CVP 
evolution process. 
For further clarity, in Fig. 9(d) we depict the simulated corelines of various vortices, at a 
different time t=14, that develop due to jet-cross-flow interaction. Notably, the CVP corelines 
LC1  and 
RC1 , as depicted in Fig. 9(d), demonstrate the evolution of the left and the right loop of 
the CVP in the neighborhood of the orifice, and clearly reveal their growth within the lateral jet 
shear layers. The parts of the simulated corelines as represented by ( LC2 ,
RC2 ) and (
LC3 ,
RC3 ) 
reveal the CVP evolution path beyond the points where upright vortices originating from (F1, F2) 
and (F3, F4) [e.g., see Fig. 8] meet the CVP. The corelines of various wall vortices 
( LW1 ,
RW1 ,
LW2 ,
RW2 ) are also depicted in Fig. 9(d), and we shall discuss their development process 
later in the text. At this point readers may note that for a round jet the inception process of the 
CVP from the quasisteady vortices, which form within the skewed mixing layers of the lateral 
jet-pipe walls, was earlier predicted by Yuan et al. [16], and interestingly the present 
investigation dealing with a square jet also reveals a very similar process of inception of the CVP. 
Here we may mention that due to some inherent drawback of the software (FIELDVIEW) used 
for plotting the vorticity corelines [e.g., Figs. 9(c)], they often appeared as broken lines, which 
are in fact continuous. 
In view of recent experimental findings on the near-field evolution characteristics of elliptic 
jets in cross-flow, as reported by New et al. [33], it is important that here we review the 
 18
the form of upright vortices. It is also important to note that the flow evolution (Figs. 2 and 3) 
behind the jet, particularly on the vertical symmetry plane (y = 0), takes place basically through 
two clearly defined near-wall nodes. The fluid emanating from these nodes, owing to the existing 
adverse pressure gradient (as it will be shown later), virtually forces the oncoming vortical shear 
layer to leave the channel floor and join the jet in the form of upright vortices. Notably, the 
interaction process between the upward lifted shear layer and the jet, during the course of flow 
evolution, was noted to initiate a nearly periodic growth of ringlike vortical structures along the 
jet lee side. To be more precise, an initial pair of symmetry plane ring formation along the jet lee 
side (which looked quite similar to the lower pair, at t=6, as appeared in Fig. 2) was observed at t 
=0.59. A very similar flow evolution pattern along the jet lee side comprising a pair of ringlike 
eddies was noted to take place again at t=3.51. The structural flow development through nearly 
similar phases (as revealed by Fig. 2) were observed to repeat during the entire course of flow 
evolution. While in the intermediate stages the flow evolution pattern along the jet lee side 
showed several intermittent behaviors, such as the total absence of ringlike eddies (e.g., Fig. 3), 
the repeated appearance of the mushroomlike eddies in a pair form (e.g., Fig. 11), or the presence 
of isolated single ring eddies (e.g., Fig. 12). These observations suggest that possibly the flow on 
the vertical symmetry plane evolves in a nearly periodic fashion with some modulated period. As 
far as the asymmetry is concerned, at a glance, the near-wall flow topology (e.g., Fig. 8) seems to 
imply that the downstream flow evolves through symmetry breaking pitchfork bifurcations. 
Furthermore, in view of repeated evolution of the symmetry plane flow through nearly equal 
phases, it remains to be verified if the associated flow transition takes place through a Hopf 
bifurcation with some (unknown) modulated period. 
At this point it is worth mentioning that in a recent experimental study Rivero et al. [17] also 
reported a nearly periodic wake evolution process behind a circular jet issuing into a cross-flow. 
However, they mention that the jet wake exhibits somewhat less periodic behavior than what one 
usually observes behind a circular cylinder. Interestingly, the round jet experiments of Kelso et al. 
[10] also reveal a similar (as in Figs. 2, 3, 11, and 12) symmetry plane wake de-velopment (in 
their Figs. 16, 17, and 22), through the formation of a node (just behind the jet orifice) situated 
slightly above the channel floor. Along the jet lee side, the evolving flow was noted to contain 
single or multiple ringlike eddies, and sometime it evolved without such structures.  
In order to better understand the symmetry plane flow development, in Fig. 13 we plot the 
pressure distribution over the entire y=0 plane. Notably, as expected, along the upstream part of 
the jet we observe the formation of local pressure maxima, suggesting the local stagnation 
influence. 
 
 20
 
 
FIG. 9. (Continued). 
 
 
 22
 
FIG. 10. Vector plots of sv,wd velocities on various x planes through the orifice, indicating 
the growth of CVP at Re=225 and R=2.5. 
 
As we move further upward along the jet/cross-flow interface, the growth of alternative high 
and low pressure areas in the region seems to reveal the oscillating character of the jet. Notably, 
Figs. 12 and 13 when viewed simultaneously, they reveal the fact that the area which covers the 
entire jet region on the symmetry plane and the adjoining places along the jet lee side have much 
lower pressure. The formation of the isolated localized high pressure region behind the jet orifice 
near x=1.2 and situated slightly above the channel floor understandably reveals the presence of a 
 24
the profiles at x=1, i.e., close to the jet orifice, are seen to exhibit their normal distribution-type 
growth with respect to the channel span. However, the maximum value of the profiles is seen to 
shift slightly towards the left. Notably, with streamwise distance the asymmetric growth of the 
profiles became more significant, and the position of occurrence of their maximum value was 
also seen to shift from one side of the symmetry (y=0) plane to the other with time. Here it may 
be important to note that at x=1, 3, and 4 the pick values of the w profiles remained higher at t 
=19 than those at t=22; however, at x=2 we observe the respective profiles to behave in the 
opposite fashion. Even the profile behavior at t=20 and t=21 demonstrates the truly unsteady 
nature of growth of the developed flow. 
 
 
FIG. 12. Flow evolution pattern on the vertical symmetry plane sy=0d at t=22.0. Re=225, 
R=2.5. 
 
 26
 
FIG. 15. Spanwise (y) distribution of the vertical (w) velocity profiles at different z stations 
and at different time. Re=225, R=2.5. 
 
E. Entrainment and mixing with transverse jet 
As far as the entrainment of the floor shear layer fluid into the main stream is concerned, 
once again Figs. 4(a), 4(b), 9(a), and 9(b) display unique features, depicting how the upstream 
vortical shear layer fluid associated with the horseshoe system are continuously being lifted up 
from the channel floor and subsequently entrained into the main stream as their tails approach 
downstream of the jet orifice. Moreover, it is important to note from the symmetry plane (Figs. 2, 
3, 11, and 12) wake development behind the jet, particularly within 0.5øxø4.0, the major mass 
entrainment into the jet core takes place from the cross-flow boundary layer, and the existing 
pressure difference (Fig. 13) in the region collectively facilitate such an entrainment process. A 
clearer threedimensional process revealing the detailed entrainment process at Re=225 is depicted 
in Figs. 16 and 17. Since the near-wall flow evolution process at t=9, as depicted in Fig. 8, 
continued through the formation of several topological critical points on the channel floor, it was 
possible to trace them from a two-dimensional analysis and follow the motion of fluid particles 
emanating directly from the critical points. The critical points (foci) F1, F2, F3, and F4, as 
evident from Figs. 16 and 17, play the central role in the entrainment process of the floor shear 
layer into the jet core. To be more specific, they are in fact the footprint of the upright vortices on 
the channel floor, from where accumulated vortices leave the floor uprightly. Figure 16 displays 
such a flow behavior at time t=9. It is, however, interesting to note that much of the upstream 
shear layer fluid, even those originating outside the horseshoe system (as revealed by the 
streamlines in red and blue), upon approaching the critical points F3 and F4 spiral around them 
and subsequently leave the channel floor to join the main stream. Figure 17 displays the detailed 
process of entrainment of the shear layer vortices into the jet core through the formation of 
upright vortices, at time t =21. This numerically confirms the experimental findings of Fric and 
Roshko [9], and convincingly demonstrates the important fact that the vortex structures which are 
observed in the wake region have their origin in the cross-flow wall boundary layer, and not in 
 28
respect to the jet orifice, in the downstream direction. Such a shifting of critical points, as will be 
shown later, is a result partly due to the higher values of the flow parameters R = 6 and Re = 440) 
used in Kelso et al. [10], and partly may be due to the physical shape of the jet orifice. 
Furthermore, the observed topology of the time-evolving near-wall flow (e.g., Figs. 8 and 14) 
reveals that, while the position of an individual critical point continues to vary with time, its 
relative arrangement as a whole remained invariant during the entire course of flow evolution. 
The flow topology as presented in Fig. 8 also reveals that there exists two main separation 
lines on the channel floor, one is the line joining F2 and F4 and passing through the saddles S5 
and S7, and the other one is the line joining F1 and F3 and passing through the saddles S3 and S6. 
Such lines of separation are, however, seen to extend far downstream, beyond S7 and S6. Some 
of the upstream fluid particles upon arriving at S5 move along the channel floor in the form of a 
wall-vortex either towards F2 or towards F4, from where they leave the surface and join the 
locally developed upright vortices. Similarly, on the other side of y=0 (Fig. 8), the upstream fluid 
particles (originating outside the horseshoe system) upon arriving at S3 continued to move along 
the channel floor in the form of another wall vortex either towards F1 or towards F3, from where 
they leave the surface along with the developed upright vortices. In Fig. 9(d) we have depicted 
the simulated wall vortex corelines ( LW1 ,
RW1 ) and (
LW2 ,
RW2 ) at t=14, originating from the 
saddles which correspond to (S3, S5) and (S6, S7) respectively (as shown in Fig. 8). The reverse 
arrows with each of the wall-vortex corelines, as depicted in Fig.9(d), reveal the direction of 
movement of the wall vortices issuing from the respective saddles as they remained stretched 
along the channel floor. These wall vortices upon arriving at the foci (F1, F2) or (F3,F4) 
eventually join the locally developed upright vortices and leave the surface. Notably, the 
topological sketch for a round jet, as experimentally obtained by Kelso et al. [10], also indicates 
the development of such wall vortices. The existence of such wall vortices has also been observed 
byWu et al. [34], but their origin and connection with the rest of the flow remained unknown.  
 30
In Fig. 18 we present the near-wall flow topology at t =9 and for R=3.5. Importantly, a 
closer look at Figs. 8 and 18 clearly reveals that with the increase in velocity ratio not only the 
locations of the first pair of foci (F1, F2) moved upstream, but there also appeared significant 
relative shifting of all the critical points at R=3.5. Moreover, the quantum of downstream flow 
asymmetry has also increased with the increase in the velocity ratio (Fig. 18). Notably, the 
upstream shifting of the second pair of foci relative to the first pair and their loss of symmetry 
with respect to the vertical symmetry plane (y=0) is remarkably significant here. Furthermore, the 
wake structure between the two pairs of foci is seen (Fig. 18) to become more open at R=3.5. 
However, as with R=2.5, the structural distribution of the floor critical points during the course of 
temporal flow evolution is seen to remain more or less invariant for R=3.5 also, except for some 
occasional modulations which are caused due to the unsteady character of the developing wake. 
Such findings demonstrate the ex-pected similarity in the overall wake evolution pattern between 
a round jet (as experimentally predicted by Fric and Roshko [9] and Kelso et al. [10]) and the 
presently simulated square jet, in the presence of a cross-flow. 
 
 
FIG. 18. Streamline pattern on z=0.1, indicating the upstream shifting of near-wall critical 
points around the jet for R=3.5. t=9, Re=225. 
 
 
VI. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 
Presently simulated three-dimensional unsteady flow evolution process around a square jet 
in cross-flow demonstrates the involved near-field interaction of several generically distinct 
vortical structures comprising an upstream horseshoe vortex system, the Kelvin-Helmholtz 
instability-induced shear layer rollers, the counter-rotating vortex pair (CVP), and the 
 32
[11] T. T. Lim, T. H. New, and S. C. Luo, Phys. Fluids 13, 770 (2001). 
[12] A. E. Perry and T. T. Lim, J. Fluid Mech. 88, 451 (1978). 
[13] J. E. Broadwell and R. E. Breidenthal, J. Fluid Mech. 148, 405 (1984). 
[14] J. Andreopoulos and W. Rodi, J. Fluid Mech. 138, 93 (1984).  
[15] R. W. Coehlo and J. C. R. Hunt, J. Fluid Mech. 200, 95 (1989). 
[16] L. L. Yuan, R. L. Street, and J. H. Ferziger, J. Fluid Mech. 379, 71 (1999). 
[17] A. Rivero, J. A. Ferre, and F. Giralt, J. Fluid Mech. 444, 117 (2001). 
[18] R. I. Sykes, W. S. Lewellen, and S. F. Parker, J. Fluid Mech. 168, 393 (1986). 
[19] M. Rudman, Exp. Therm. Fluid Sci. 12, 134 (1996). 
[20] R. W. Claus and S. P. Vanka, J. Propul. Power 8, 425 (1992). 
[21] A. O. Demuren, Int. J. Eng. Sci. 31, 899 (1993). 
[22] J. E. Martin and E. Meiburg, J. Fluid Mech. 230, 271 (1991). 
[23] J. E. Martin and E. Meiburg, J. Fluid Mech. 243, 457 (1992). 
[24] W. J. A. Dahm, C. Frieler, and G. Tryggvason, J. Fluid Mech. 241, 371 (1992). 
[25] L. Cortelezzi and A. R. Karagozian, J. Fluid Mech. 446, 347 (2001). 
[26] F. M. White, Viscous Fluid Flow, 2nd ed. (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1991). 
[27] F. H. Harlow and J. E. Welch, Phys. Fluids 8, 2182 (1965). 
[28] Y-F. Peng, Y-H. Shiau, and R. Hwang, Comput. Fluids 32, 337 (2003). 
[29] A. Sau, Phys. Fluids 11, 3003 (1999). 
[30] A. Sau, Phys. Fluids 14, 3280 (2002). 
[31] T. P. Chiang, T. W. Sheu, R. R. Hwang, and A. Sau, Phys. Rev. E 65, 016306 (2002). 
[32] B. A. Haven and M. Kurosaka, J. Fluid Mech. 352, 27 (1997). 
[33] T. H. New, T. T. Lim, and S. C. Luo, J. Fluid Mech. 494, 119 (2003). 
[34] J. W. Wu, A. D. Vakili, and F. M. Yu, AIAA J. 26, 940 (1988). 
 
 
 1
 
?  ?  ? 
?      ? 
? ? ? ????
? ? ? 
???????? ??? 
? ? 96 ? 07 ? 1 ?-07 ?
06 ? 
? 
? 
? ? ?????? 
????
???? 
NSC 94-2611-E-001-001 
??????????????? 
? ? ? 
? 17th (2007) International Offshore and Polar Engineering Conference 
????????????????? 
?????
? Numerical simulations of solitary wave running and breaking on a slopping bed 
(?) ??????  
???????????? (ISOPE) ??????????????
??????????????????????????? (Lisbon) ?
Corinthia Lisoa Hotel ?????????? 48 ???????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
????????????? (plenary sessions)?? 120 ????? 608 
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
????????????????????????????:????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????? 
???????????????????????????????
?????? Altis Park Hotel ????????????????????
 3
Averaged Navier-Stokes) ???? (embedding method)?????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
???????????? 
???????????????????????????????
????????????????????????????? (Iberian 
Peninsula) 5/6 ???????? (Portugal) ??????? (Andorra) ??
????????????????????????????????? 
(Canary Islands) ?????????????? (The Balearic Islands) ?
???????? Ceuta ? Melilla???????????????? 
492,503 ???????????? 1.3 ???????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
???????????? Flamenco??????????????? 
(Velaquez)???? (El Greco) ??? (Goya) ????????????
???? Tapa???????????????? Siesta????????
????????????????????????(Jerez)??????? 
????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
???????????????????? (Anrique)???? (Julio)?
???????????  ( Pedro Almodova)?????  Mongo ? 
Camper??? ??????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?(Toledo)????? (Barcelona)???? (Sevilla)???? (Mardid)??
??? (Granada) ????????? 2???????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????? 
 
 5
(?)??  
???????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?? 
(?) ?????????  
???????????????????????????????
???????? 
 1
 
?  ?  ? 
?      ? 
? ? ? ????
? ? ? 
???????? ??? 
? ? 96 ? 07 ? 1 ?-07 ?
06 ? 
? 
? 
? ? ?????? 
????
???? 
NSC 94-2611-E-001-001 
??????????????? 
? ? ? 
? 17th (2007) International Offshore and Polar Engineering Conference 
????????????????? 
?????
? Numerical simulations of solitary wave running and breaking on a slopping bed 
(?) ??????  
???????????? (ISOPE) ??????????????
??????????????????????????? (Lisbon) ?
Corinthia Lisoa Hotel ?????????? 48 ???????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
????????????? (plenary sessions)?? 120 ????? 608 
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
????????????????????????????:????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????? 
???????????????????????????????
?????? Altis Park Hotel ????????????????????
 3
Averaged Navier-Stokes) ???? (embedding method)?????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
???????????? 
???????????????????????????????
????????????????????????????? (Iberian 
Peninsula) 5/6 ???????? (Portugal) ??????? (Andorra) ??
????????????????????????????????? 
(Canary Islands) ?????????????? (The Balearic Islands) ?
???????? Ceuta ? Melilla???????????????? 
492,503 ???????????? 1.3 ???????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
???????????? Flamenco??????????????? 
(Velaquez)???? (El Greco) ??? (Goya) ????????????
???? Tapa???????????????? Siesta????????
????????????????????????(Jerez)??????? 
????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
???????????????????? (Anrique)???? (Julio)?
???????????  ( Pedro Almodova)?????  Mongo ? 
Camper??? ??????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?(Toledo)????? (Barcelona)???? (Sevilla)???? (Mardid)??
??? (Granada) ????????? 2???????????????
?????????????????????????????????
?????????? 
 
