  
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
支持與維護透過行動裝置做生活經驗分享之架構設計 
The Design of Mechanisms to Support and Sustain Sharing of Life 
Experience with Mobile Devices 
 
計畫編號： NSC  97 - 2221 - E - 036 - 040 - 
執行期限： 97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：  鄭穎懋   大同大學資訊工程學系 
共同主持人： 陳立杰   大同大學工業設計研究所 
     葉慶隆   大同大學資訊工程學系 
計畫參與人員：李肇龍、李達   大同大學資訊工程學系 
 
ABSTRACT: 
Social Proximity Applications (SPAs) has been an 
emerging hot topic in recent mobile research communities. 
SPAs have prompted a promising opportunity for mobile 
services that utilize the changes in daily life in the 
proximity of mobile users. However, the traditional SPA 
interfaces rely on heavy interaction load in visual attention. 
This paper describes our research-in-progress about 
designing and developing a mobile SPA, which facilitates 
social interaction among visitors in a night market crowd. 
Our application allows night market visitors to share their 
experiences in photos with nearby others via their 
Bluetooth-enabled mobile phones, and supports a suitable 
SPA interface for the use in a night market. The design was 
based on a two-week field observation in an attempt to 
investigate the motivations and attitudes towards 
applications of this type. After an extensive trial we found 
the value of the application - privacy-sensitive, playful, and 
enjoyable, yields high consistency with results from field 
observation. Furthermore, Night markets embody a distinct 
cultural habitat for social life in Taiwan. Visitors are 
continuously bombarded with surrounding information. 
The results showed our non-visual interaction approach 
could be a successful means in user interfaces in this type 
of situations. 
Keywords:  
Sociable experience sharing, collaborative communication 
support, proximity-based sharing, wireless ad-hoc 
networking, non-visual interaction, gesture interaction, 
tactons, tactile displays 
 
摘要： 
鄰近社交應用(SPAs)在行動應用的研究領域內成為新興
的熱門話題，鄰近社交應用提供使用者利用旁人生活經
驗來促進個人體驗。然而傳統的鄰近社交應用介面過度
依賴視覺上的注意力，這對於行動環境下的使用者會造
成額外的負擔。這份研究主要設計一套鄰近社交應用能
夠提升夜市遊客們之間的社交互動，經由兩週的實地觀
察，建立能夠滿足人們使用動機及需求的應用，這項應
用允許使用者透過藍芽行動電話與旁人互相交換生活
經驗，並且提供一個在夜市內適當的互動介面。最後，
我們利用全面性的試驗，了解到這項應用所能帶來的利
益，以及非視覺互動在夜市環境下能夠成為一套成功的
介面。 
關鍵詞：  
經驗分享、協同通訊、鄰近分享、無線隨建即連網路、
非視覺互動、手勢互動、觸覺標示、觸覺呈現 
1. INTRODUCTION 
People are more mobile than ever before. When we are on 
the move, the people, places, and things around change 
rapidly. Our everyday lives can be portrayed by the 
encounters we have. Most of them are fugacious. Even 
though that we may have common experiences with 
encounters. In today’s society a lot of people share their 
life stories using the web services like web albums, blogs, 
forums, even the instant message. But these stories might 
not be interesting to us or distant from us, in other words, 
we were not in-situ. Until recently we cannot find a 
popular application that can record one’s memory and 
share it to in-situ people even strangers with mobile phones 
anytime and anywhere, why cannot we take advantage of 
the knowledge and information surrounds us? If people had 
the potentiality to exploit information that people around 
possess and the possibility of using the mobile phone to 
share information with these encounters, what are the 
barriers that prevent users from doing so? In this paper, we 
carry out a field study in the context which is full of life 
experience information. We then present an application to 
help sharing life experiences between encounters. The 
designed application was informed by the study of user 
requirements regarding the willingness of experience 
sharing in the observed field. During the trials, we find out 
traditional SPA interfaces are overly dependent on visual 
displays. This is problematic when the user is walking in 
the night markets. Therefore, we also propose a lightweight 
SPA interface to reduce users’ attention on the screen. The 
prototype allows users to annotate photos by using gestures, 
and non-visual tactile feedback is used to alert users of new 
shared information. 
 
2. LITERATURE REVIEW 
Some projects have considered collaborative sharing on the 
mobile device. In Hocman [2], they use a mobile social 
interaction application via which people can enrich biking 
leisure activity with social connotation. Bikers feel more 
enjoyable in their habit. MobiTip [1] gives the users the 
possibility to express their estimation and post tips 
concerning anything of interest in the environment. Both 
projects initiated work with ethnographic fieldwork to 
search for requirements instructing the design. This direct 
observation plays a primary role when inventing new and 
useful services. There is another idea about social 
collaboration in sharing photos and notes. PhotoChat [6] 
employs photos with freehand writing and sketching as a 
means of communication between its users. Through 
sharing photos and interpretation of the photo among users, 
  
Physical Context of the Night Market 
There are different groups of people such as various 
vendors, students, officers, families, charities, etc. crowded 
into a night market. As mentioned above, there are quite a 
few schools nearby Shilin Night Market that the majority 
of visitors are students, and group visit is the most common 
in the night market. The night market is also flooded with 
grotesque banners and boards with creative slogans. We 
were also able to hear various voices such as the voice of 
communications between people, the voice for peddling, 
etc, in the night market. In short, the night market is 
crushed, chaotic, and full of life. We can see many goods 
and any kinds of people. In conclusion, the night market is 
a gathering that flooded with a miscellaneous collection of 
information. 
 
Act of communicating 
Our findings mostly show that communications hold prime 
importance in activities in the night market. The topic 
involves not only anecdotes about the life but any tips 
concerning the night market. Group discussion is also an 
information transmission method in the night market that 
can correlate group’s experience to make a better decision, 
for example, choosing a store with good appraisement. 
Moreover, we can find another kind of communications, 
the advertisement, convey shops’ opinions to visitors or the 
vendor warning each other with the radio that police would 
be coming. There was incidental information transmission 
through curiousness or the situation of context that we are 
interested. That implies the willingness and requirement in 
sharing experience. 
 
 
Figure 2. Group discussion(Left); The advertisement 
(Middle); Curious viewers (Right). 
 
Interaction with mobile devices 
We also observed that people rarely pay attention to the 
display screens of their mobile tools [4] when hanging 
around in the night market. Only when stationary, they 
would look at the screen. It is common to see people stand 
by vendor stands, as there are spare spaces when they using 
their mobile devices to capture things they are interested in 
the form of photos or text for short messages.  But 
sometimes a few visitors used cameras such as the digital 
camera or the camera phone on the move. 
 
 
Figure 3. The situation of using mobile tools. 
 
Capture and share personal life stories 
“ I describe stories particularly by characters or 
verbalization and use images to enhance the perception”. 
According to the results from our interviews, people are 
primarily interested in recording their life stories through 
their mobile tools and showing their companies like friends, 
colleagues, relatives, etc. However, to some extent, they 
are also willing to share information with strangers if their 
privacy can be preserved. “It is difficult to type when 
hanging around the night market, so I prefer to use camera 
function on my mobile phone as a recorder.” Moreover, we 
discovered that people would use fast, effective approaches 
for capturing special moment in the night market and 
obviously photographing is a common method. As 
described by our interviewees, they dislike texting through 
the keypad when moving in the crowd. 
 
3.3 Design Concepts 
From our initial study, the literature review and the field 
study, we have derived the following design principles: 
 
 In-situ sharing - People would be interested in the 
context of proximity. They may talk about the in-situ 
experience or collaborate with each other to develop 
mutual shopping decision in the night market. We 
can choose short-range communication technology 
that support people share their in-situ information. 
 Privacy control – Visitors want more comprehensive 
control of their privacy settings in some personal 
content. They should be allowed to decide which to 
share with nearby others. 
 Fast and simple interface - People are unlikely to be 
able to give their full attention to interacting with 
their mobile phones while walking. An easy and 
convenient method such as photographing allows 
user to spend less time on capturing experience. 
 Free-of-charge - People are concerned about the 
costs of sharing content such as access fees [3]. 
Bluetooth-enabled mobile phones without additional 
equipments and service charge can encourage the 
use of the service of this type in the exuberant 
information context. 
 
3.4 Implementation 
The prototype is implemented in J2ME interfacing the 
Symbian OS. We have constructed the prototype for Nokia 
N82 that enables Bluetooth communication and capturing 
photos. We prefer mobile phones to other mobile devices 
as our research platform due to its universal presence. 
Figure 4 shows our system architecture of the prototype 
based on the requirements, on the ground of the empirical 
field observation. Figure 5 shows the interface of the 
prototype. 
 
 
Figure 4. System architecture. 
 
Bluetooth based peer-to-peer communication is used in our 
service, as well as photo capturing that is mostly used in 
the night market for sharing content. When there are other 
users within the boundary of communication, peer 
discovery (PD) will log these users (step 1) and inform the 
Bluetooth Client (BTC) to get new users (step 2). Then 
users can preview photos that are contributed by other 
  
such as tagging, annotating and so on. In addition, visitors 
will be notified by their phones when receiving calls. They 
then answer the phone and keep walking. One difference 
between these two tasks is the degree of visual attention. 
Our objective is to reduce the visual attention load required 
for photographing and annotation, such that it is similar to 
that of calling. 
 
 
Figure 7. Gesture in the night market. 
 
Furthermore, we found few visitors pointing at a peddler 
and discussed whether it was good or bad. These natural 
gestures implied attracting and sharing the rating with 
others. In the physical world, people use an intuitive 
method for expressing their personal opinions. But they are 
restricted by the technologies and digital contents. For 
instance, users typically need a keyboard or a keypad to 
insert textual contents. Their use often involves 
interruption. In addition, usually it is difficult for a user to 
pay a careful attention to the interface while they are 
moving. Otherwise, the user will also be influence by the 
limited size of graphical displays. 
 
 
Figure 8. The illustration of interaction with the mobile 
device 
 
We also chose a discussion board dedicated to night 
markets within a bulletin board system, PTT (ptt.cc) as the 
online community to be studied. PTT is a popular online 
Chinese-speaking community, which hosts many 
discussion boards on various topics. On average, more than 
89,000 users visit the site every day. The mean age of PTT 
users is 24 years. The night market discussion group, set up 
in PTT in 2002, intends to provide a discussion space for 
people sharing experiences, and also to support a public 
channel to acquire updated and accurate night market 
information. We analysed approximately 1000 consecutive 
messages from this discussion board about night market 
experience in order to explore what kind of information 
people are concerned with. As a result, we found that most 
people mainly discuss ‘good’ and ‘bad’ aspects about 
peddlers and food.  
Based on these findings, we implemented two gestures, tilt 
and twist, representing ‘good’ and ‘bad’ to signal rating. It 
is similar to nod and head shake in human-to-human 
communication. This represents an intuitive motion and 
supports non-visual interactions. We then use the different 
tactile rhythms to notify users received content information. 
We employ a strategy similar to Tactons [8]. 
 
4.2 Design and Implementation 
Taking inspiration from a combination of previous works 
and our field study, we came up with the concept of a 
lightweight SPA interface. Previous researches have 
summarized that an interaction system for mobile device 
should [8, 10]: 
 
 cater to the user’s needs depending on the physical, 
social, and task context 
 deliver noticeable cues to the receiver 
 not disrupt the users’ immediate context 
 
We propose eyes-free interaction appropriate to the context 
that is intuitive and non-abrupt. The distinguishable Tacton 
rhythms are used for users to determine the types of 
received data. These interactions should not cause much 
interference with the user’s current tasks. 
We illustrate a novel, mobile, low interaction load 
approach to supporting the creation of a rating annotation 
of experience in photos, and the non-visual and non- 
auditory feedback to alert the annotation of received 
information. As figure 9 shows, visitors can take a picture 
and add the annotation with a specific gesture instead of 
inputting text. Visitors then share this photo with users in 
the immediate proximity. These users will know the rating 
associated with the received photo without viewing the 
screen of their own mobile devices. 
 
 
Figure 9. Design concepts 
 
Our prototype is implemented in J2ME interfacing the 
Symbian OS. The prototype is designed to run on a Nokia 
5800 that supports Bluetooth communication, photo 
capturing, accelerometer sensor, and JSR 256 mobile 
sensor API. The technical specifications we chose are 
based on prevalence and trends. 
 
  
experience sharing in a Taiwanese night market. In 
Proc. OZCHI 2008, vol. 287. ACM Press (2008), 
239-242. 
 Lee, C., Cheng, Y., Yeh, C., Chen, L., Yu, W., and 
Chen, K.. Information Marketplace: Supporting 
Experience Sharing in Proximity Using Mobile 
Technology. In Proc. OZCHI 2008 (Demo). 
 Lee, C., Cheng, Y., Lee, D., Lin, M., Sandnes, F. E., 
and Chen, L.. The Exploration of Non-Visual 
Interaction for Social Proximity Applications in a 
Taiwanese night market. In Proc. OZCHI 2009. 
ACM Press (2009). 
 
7. REFERENCE 
1. Åsa Rudström, Martin Svensson, Rickard Cöster and 
Kristina Höök: MobiTip: Using Bluetooth as a Mediator 
of Social Context. In: Ubicomp 2004 Adjunct 
Proceedings. (2004) 
2. Esbjörnsson, M., Juhlin, O., and Östergren, M.: The 
Hocman Prototype - Fast Motor Bikers and Ad Hoc 
Networking. In: Proceedings of 1st Conference on 
Mobile and Ubiquitous Multimedia, Oulo, Finland, pp. 
91—98. (2002) 
3. Matuszewski, M., Beijar, N., Lehtinen, J., Hyyrylainen, 
T.: Understanding Attitudes Towards Mobile 
Peer-to-Peer Content Sharing Services. In: Portable 
Information Devices, 2007. PORTABLE07. IEEE 
International Conference on. pp. 1-5. (2007) 
4. Pascoe, J. and Thomson, K.: On the use of mobile tools 
in everyday life. In Proceedings of the 2007 Conference 
of the Computer-Human interaction Special interest 
Group (Chisig) of Australia on Computer-Human 
interaction: Design: Activities, Artifacts and 
Environments (Adelaide, Australia, November 28 - 30, 
2007). OZCHI '07, vol. 251. ACM, New York, NY, 
39-47. (2007) 
5. Sharp, H., Rogers, Y., Preece, J: Interaction Design 
beyond Human-Computer Interaction, 2nd Edition. 
John Wiley & Sons, USA. (2006) 
6. Sumi, Y., Ito, J., and Nishida, T: Photochat: 
communication support system based on sharing photos 
and notes. In: CHI '08 Extended Abstracts on Human 
Factors in Computing Systems (Florence, Italy, April 05 
- 10, 2008). CHI '08. ACM, New York, NY, 3237-3242. 
(2008) 
7. Brown, L.M., Brewster, S.A., and Purchase, H.C. 
Multidimensional Tactons for Non-Visual Information 
Presentation in Mobile Devices. In Proc. MobileHCI 
2006 , vol. 159. ACM Press (2006), 231-238. 
8. Costanza, E., Inverso, S. A., Pavlov, E., Allen, R., and 
Maes, P. eye-q: eyeglass peripheral display for subtle 
intimate notifications. In Proc. MobileHCI 2006, vol. 
159. ACM Press (2007), 211-218. 
9. Heuten, W., Henze, N., Boll, S., and Pielot, M. Tactile 
wayfinder: a non-visual support system for wayfinding. 
In Proc. NordiCHI 2008, vol. 358. ACM Press (2008), 
172-181. 
10. Lumsden, J. and Brewster, S. A paradigm shift: 
alternative interaction techniques for use with mobile & 
wearable devices. In Proc. CASCON 2003. IBM 
Press(2003), 197-210. 
11. Poupyrev, I., Maruyama, S., and Rekimoto, J. 2002. 
Ambient touch: designing tactile interfaces for handheld 
devices. In Proc. UIST 2002. ACM Press (2002), 51-60. 
12. Robinson, S., Eslambolchilar, P., and Jones, M. 
Point-to-GeoBlog: gestures and sensors to support user 
generated content creation. In Proc. MobileHCI 2008. 
ACM Press (2008), 197-206. 
13. Rudström, A., Svensson, M., Cöster, R., and  Höök, K. 
MobiTip: Using Bluetooth as a Mediator of Social 
Context. In Adjunct Proc. Ubicomp 2004 . 
14. Sundström, P., Ståhl, A., and Höök, K. eMoto: 
affectively involving both body and mind. In Ext. 
Abstracts CHI 2005. ACM Press (2005), 2005-2008.  
15. Sumi, Y., Ito, J., and Nishida, T. Photochat: 
communication support system based on sharing photos 
and notes. In Ext. Abstracts CHI 2008. ACM Press 
(2008), 3237-3242. 
16. Williamson, J., Murray-Smith, R., and Hughes, S. 
Shoogle: excitatory multimodal interaction on mobile 
devices. In Proc. CHI 2007. ACM Press (2007), 
121-124. 
 
計畫成果自評 
本研究與原計畫內容相符，亦達成預期之目標。透過人
機互動的研究方法，找出實際情境下人們對於行動應用
的需求。另外，經由雛型驗證所得到的使用者意見回
饋，可在各個研究領域下做進一步的探討，例如人們對
於特定情境下所需求的分享資訊、在擁擠人潮下以何種
機制快速分享資料、以及各個環境下所適用的行動裝置
互動介面。對於行動介面，已做了初步的探討，並能利
用此成果延續至各個行動應用開發上。像是單車情境
下，是否能用相同的呈現與輸入設計概念。最後，隨著
行動電話的普及，鄰近社交應用對於未來的發展是可以
期待的，以及感測裝置在行動電話上的發展趨勢，此應
用能夠帶給使用者更多、更直覺的互動方式，為行動應
用領域開啟一片新天地。 
  
技術特點 
藉由 P2P 架構作為人與人之間經驗分享的資料交換模式。 
推廣及運用的價值 
1.提升觀光環境的共生支持力並共構各地觀光資源永續發展能力。 
2.建立一個機制讓產品或是服務與使用者合作等方式，創造特殊價
值與商機，滿足顧客需求。 
3.利用行動產業的互動性，探討使用者與企業共創新的使用模式，
進而帶來新的商業模式。 
 
Using Tactons to Provide Navigation Cues in Pedestrian 
Situations 
Ming-Wei Lin 
Dept. of Computer Science and 
Engineering, Tatung University 
Taipei, Taiwan 
+886-9-1847-7996 
g9606045@ms.ttu.edu.tw 
Yun-Maw Cheng 
Dept. of Computer Science and 
Engineering, Tatung University 
Taipei, Taiwan 
+886-2-2182-2928 ext.6578 
kevin@ttu.edu.tw 
Wai Yu 
Thales Air Defence Ltd 
Alanbrooke Rd., 
Castlereagh, Belfast, UK 
+44-28-9046-5314 
Wai.Yu@uk.thalesgroup.com 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Until recently, the existing navigation services do not meet the 
needs in pedestrian situation. The display of present navigation 
information is often inappropriate. In this paper, we report two 
experiments to investigate whether using tactile display to present 
navigation information is sufficient and appropriate in pedestrian 
situation. The result of those experiments showed that Tactons 
could be a successful means of communicating navigation 
information in user interfaces in pedestrian situations. 
Categories and Subject Descriptors 
H.5.2 [User Interfaces]: Haptic I/O 
General Terms 
Design, Human Factors. 
Keywords 
Pedestrian navigation, Tactile icons, Tactons, Tactile displays, 
non-visual interaction. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
An increased interest in navigational services for pedestrians has 
been seen in recent years. It is necessary to understand the 
information requirements of users and examine the information 
for how it is presented accordingly when they interact with 
navigation systems in pedestrian situation [5]. When interacting 
with existing navigation services, the visual display is often 
inappropriate. There are significant problems associated with user 
attention and cognitive load, when using a mobile device in 
pedestrian situations while user should pay attention to peripheral 
information which they are interested or care about, rather than 
the small mobile screen. 
Therefore, there have been some research using audio feedback 
[3, 6, 7] to solve those problems. Audio interfaces are designed to 
allow users to perform location tasks while their eyes, hands or 
general attention are otherwise engaged [7]. Using audio display 
to present information can reduce workload for users to receive 
information. However, audio feedback would hardly present 
information in noisy environments and would interrupt interaction 
between the user and his/her company. 
In pedestrian situation, navigation systems require an alternative 
to the existing solutions which can present navigation information 
when visual and audio sense is used to receive other information. 
Tactile displays have been featured in mobile devices for many 
years, and are used to alert users to incoming information without 
audio-visual feedback. Tacton (tactile icon) are similar to Braille 
or earcons, and can represent complex interface concepts, objects 
and actions very concisely [2]. Using tactile feedback alone, 
without visual and audio feedback, would make it possible to 
convey information without disturbing other people, interrupting 
interaction with others, or to alert users while they are engaged in 
noisy environments [1]. 
In this paper, we performed user research to understand the user 
experience of interacting with navigation services in pedestrian 
situation. We designed two experiments to investigate whether 
using tactile display to preset navigation information is sufficient 
and appropriate in pedestrian situation. In the first experiment, we 
used two tactile parameters to construct the abstracted navigation 
information of the existing navigation services. In the second 
experiment, we verified that the abstracted navigation information 
can guide the users to their desired target location via continuous 
tactile feedback. 
2. REQUIREMENTS CAPTURE 
2.1 User Research 
We conducted interviews of five people who had experience of 
using mobile navigation systems as pedestrian. All of the 
participants were male. The interviews centered on the following 
issues: 
! When the navigation systems would be used? 
! Which information they consider relevant to the 
situation? 
! In what event they need to interact with navigation 
systems? 
 
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for 
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are 
not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that 
copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. To copy 
otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, 
requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. 
NordiCHI’08: Using Bridges, 18–22, October 2008, Lund, Sweden. 
Copyright 2008 ACM ISBN: 978-1-59593-704-9. $5.00. 
4.1 Experiment 1: Investigation in the 
Laboratory 
In the first experiment, the Tactons presented navigation 
information to users, and data were recorded on the identification 
of complete Tactons (correct identification of all two parameters – 
Direction of Travel and Distance to Next Turn), in addition to the 
recognition of the individual attributes. 
4.1.1 Procedures 
We used 2-parameter Tactons to present five navigation types. 
Seven participants took part in this experiment. The participants 
were all students of the Tatung University and were aged 21 to 25 
(mean=23). All of the participants were male. All were right 
handed. 
During experiment 1, a mobile device was held on the 
participant’s hand. The participant wore headphones to block out 
any noise. Tactile sensitivity varies across the length of the hand. 
Before the start of experiment 1, we introduced the concept of 
Tactons to participants, and the relations with the tactile 
parameters and two attributes of the navigation information. They 
were allowed to try out the tactile information by themselves for 
up to two minutes, by clicking on buttons on a training interface 
(Figure 4.a). They were advised to use this opportunity to learn 
the mapping between the Tactons and their relation before the 
experiment. After familiarizing the Tactons, they took part in 15 
sample tasks as part of the training. The order of the tasks was 
presented randomized for each participant. In each task the 
participant was presented with Tactons, which was repeated four 
times with a one second pause between repetitions. While the 
Tactons was being presented, the participants had to identify all 
two attributes encoded in the Tactons, by giving the answer to the 
moderator. They did not need to wait until the Tactons had been 
presented all four times before responding if they had made a 
decision before then. When they had made their decisions they 
could tell the moderator to enter their responses.!
 
4.1.2 Results and Discussion 
During the experiment, data were collected on the number of 
correct responses to the attributes of each Tactons, and percentage 
correct scores were calculated for each individual attribute and for 
the complete Tactons. 
The results of overall Tactons recognition rate showed an average 
recognition rate of 99%. Navigational direction types (represented 
by rhythm) were correctly recognized 100% of the time. The 
identification rates for each rhythm are shown in Table 1. The 
results for recognition of importance of navigational direction 
(represented by tempo) showed an average recognition rate of 
99%. Table 2 shows the individual recognition rates for each 
importance of tempo. 
Table 1. Percentage correct scores for Type parameter 
(rhythm) 
 Turn Right Turn Left Stop 
%correct 100 100 100 
 
Table 2. Percentage correct scores for importance parameter 
(tempo) 
 Med  High  
%correct 98 100 
 
Based on the results of this experiment, the perfect performance 
could have been achieved if only 5 Tactons had been recognized. 
These results indicate that it is possible to present abstract 
navigation information. 
4.2 Experiment 2: Investigation in the Field  
An experiment was conducted to investigate the performance of 
participants who navigated via continuous Tactons in pedestrian 
situation in the Tatung University. 
4.2.1 Procedures 
Four participants who had taken part in the experience 1, held a 
mobile device in right hand during experiment. Before experiment 
2, we did not introduce the concept of Tactons to participants 
again, but they were allowed to try out the tactile information 
again by themselves for up to two minutes, by clicking on buttons 
on a training interface (Figure 4.a). 
There were two hidden targets in the Tatung University. We used 
a wizard of Oz technique [4] in this experiment. The wizard can 
use wizard interface (Figure 4.b) to guide users to the target. Also, 
we used a GPS receiver (G-Rays1), which was placed in the user’s 
pocket to record user’s walk path. Wizard can send five sample 
Tactons to transmit the navigation information to the users who 
perceived Tactons and followed the navigation information. To 
begin with, they have to move to target 1, and when target 1 is 
found, they then move to target 2 from target 1. We observed the 
performance of our navigation system and the user responses 
during the experiment 2. 
4.2.2 Results and Discussion 
The performance of our system is near perfect, Figure 5 which has 
some inaccuracy about GPS coordinates shows the different paths 
by each user in this experiment. All users perceived the Tactons 
                                                                  
1 G-Rays Bluetooth GPS Receiver 
http://www.semsons.com/wigiwblgpsre.html 
Figure 4.  (a). The training interface of Tactons 
                   (b). The wizard of OZ interface 
