maintain the same communication specifications 
and quality. The highly integrated chip sets 
including DSP, and RF transceiver also need to 
enforce this low power constraint. With the 
technology continuing to scaling down the size 
of transistor, the design difficulty for lowering 
the power consumption of RF circuitry, in 
particular frequency synthesizer, is still the 
major challenge. The low voltage circuit design 
is the key of lowering power consumption. 
However, the difficulty of designing such low 
power supply circuitry also imposes a higher 
power consumption to achieve the same 
performances. For example, the speed 
improvement is mainly achieved by increasing 
the biasing current in CML circuitry which is the 
main scheme in the high speed applications. 
Therefore, a novel circuit design technique 
always needs to be investigated to lower the 
power consumption as the technology continuing 
to scale down the size of transistor.  
 
Frequency synthesizer dissipates power 
extensively during the receiving and transmitting 
period. The power consumption comes mainly 
from two sources. One is from VCO and the 
other is from frequency divider. The frequency 
divider consists of different stages of divider and 
programmable counter in order to achieve 
desired channel based on different RF system 
requirement. A pulse swallow frequency divider 
is usually used in integer-N frequency 
synthesizer. The frequency divider usually 
includes the prescaler, program counter and 
swallows counter.  
 
Many researches presented on the low 
power programmable counter designs [1][2][3]. 
Basically, all these papers implemented the 
prescaler with traditional Current-Mode Logic 
(CML) circuitry. CML is biased approximately 
in the middle of supply voltage and the voltage 
amplitude is about several hundred mill volt 
between logic high and logic low. In [4], an 
accurate analytical method was proposed to 
optimize the design of CML in bipolar circuit. 
Unlike traditional logic circuitry, CML always 
consumes power due to its biasing condition. 
Therefore, to reduce the power consumption of 
frequency divider is to minimize the use CML 
while enhance the operation speed of traditional 
CMOS programmable counter. In [5][6], both 
papers focus on improving the operation 
frequency of programmable counter by advanced 
logic design to reduce the gate delay of critical 
path. The maximum operation speed is five 
hundred mega-hertz with 2V supply voltage. We 
propose to a new circuit design to enhance the 
operation speed of programmable. Therefore, we 
can relax the power consumption of CML in 
precaler design. Hence the overall power 
consumption of frequency divider can be 
reduced.  
 
三、 研究方法及成果 
In the delay of EOC detector, the critical 
path of Chang’s programmable counter with 
nine-stage must go through NOR3, NAND3, and 
NOR1. Instead of these three gates, the critical 
path of proposed EOC detector is composed of 
NAND and NOR gates. Therefore, the clock 
cycle of CLKT  can be reduced, then the 
operating frequency of counter can work at 
higher frequencies. The proposed EOC detector 
is shown in Fig.1. 
 
Fig. 1 Block diagram of proposed EOC detector. 
 
The proposed D flip-flop uses NAND gate 
instead of traditional transmission gate (TG). By 
using NAND gate in the D flip-flop, the 
operation frequency can be faster than those of D 
flip-flop with TG which is used in Chang’s 
high-speed divide-by-N counter [5]. Fig. Fig. 2 
shows the block diagram of D flip-flop with set 
(SET) and reset (RST). During the Preset or 
Clear situation, the critical path of D flip-flop 
only needs to go through two NAND logic gates. 
However, the D flip-flop with TG in Chang’s [5] 
must go through at least three TG gates and one 
