一、中英文摘要 
中文摘要 
使用者參與設計過程是一種被公認可以使設計提升其成功可能性的方式，本
研究試圖針對使用者難以實際參與設計過程的現象，提出一系列相關理論之探
究，試圖建構一套用於輔助使用者參與設計過程之支援決策系統。 
本研究的重點包含探討模糊規則系統(Fuzzy Rule-Based System 簡稱 FRBS)
於使用者不確定性資訊之搜集、整合設計合理化(Design Rationale 簡稱 DR)的原
理原則與知識庫系統(Knowledge-Based System 簡稱 KBS) 於使用者參與的流程
上之輔助機制以及直覺式操作(Direct Manipulation)方法用於提供使用者直覺性
的操作方式。本研究透過公寓設計過程為案例來進行相關性研究與系統實做，對
於設計的初始階段，利用模糊理論與其規則系統獲取顧客的真正需求，並將其資
訊透過運算衍生為初始的配置格局。在操作流程部份，透過整合導航技術、直接
操作理論與合理化設計決策支援系統來提供一個 3D 的衍生系統與圖形化操作介
面，輔助於使用者親自參與設計過程並提供合理且適當的決策支援。 
關鍵字：使用者參與(User Participation) 
模糊規則系統(Fuzzy Rule-Based System) 
設計合理化(Design Rationale) 
直覺式操作(Direct Manipulation) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1
二、執行成果 
1前言 
一般而言，使用者無法參與設計過程是一種普遍的現象，大多數的原因來自於產
業的架構或者市場特性使然。而使用者參與設計過程卻是一種公認可以使設計提
升其成功可能性的方式。大多數的設計過程必須透過多個相關專業部門的零碎系
統相互協調與溝通而成，這樣的情況對於各個專業部門之間的協調本身就已然為
問題所在，更何況對於使用者參與設計過程的可行性。一般來說，使用者參與設
計包含了關鍵性的設計決策以及藉此幫助於更接近顧客的對於設計的預期與希
望。使用者參與設計是一連串決策過程，在此核心中顧客行為與內外部相關設計
元素如何相互作用將是影響決策的制定的一大關鍵。其中涉及的問題包含了：
一、顧客如何清楚明確地反應自身的需求；二、大多數的顧客對於設計過程了解
的不足以及設計知識的缺乏，影響設計決策的正確性；三、顧客與設計者之間的
溝通模式問題。對此，模糊規則系統(Fuzzy Rule-Based System)藉由反覆的模糊
推論機制用於幫助於顧客需求的取得；設計合理化(Design Rationale 簡稱 DR)以
及知識庫系統(Knowledge-Based System 簡稱 KBS)支援於理性的設計過程方法
與其相關知識的支援輔助；透過直覺性操作(Direct Manipulation)的介面與方法與
上述相關技術之整合提供其顧客與設計師相互溝通之設計參與決策系統。 
 
本研究試圖以公寓設計過程為例，建構一套模糊規則系統用於顧客需求之相關資
訊擷取，以及透過導航技術、直接操作理論與合理化決策支援系統之整合發展一
套 3D 的互動衍生系統，提供使用者參與設計之決策。 
2研究目的 
此研究目的在於試圖創造一種有效且適當的決策代理與推論機制並且透過與設
計合理化的方法相互整合，提供使用者於設計參與上的決策支援機制。期望透過
一數位的互動平台，將設計端的設計合理過程與客戶端的決策支援相互整合，透
過其整合實體操作技術與理性化決策過程的 3D 的衍生式系統原型呈現其輔助客
製化過程的機制。針對這樣的目的，此研究中包含下列研究範疇： 
 1. 提出一種以模糊規則支援使用者參與設計程序的運算系統 
 2. 透過設計合理化過程方法進行其決策系統之整合 
 3. 利用直覺式操作方式建構操作系統 
 4. 以公寓設計過程為例進行系統實做 
 3
此模型包含了論據空間
(Argument Space)與議題
空間(Issue Space)。論據
空間包含從過去經驗或
者邏輯上所獲取的推理
主體，每一次人工的決策
都跟論據空間所關聯。每
一個議題空間單元都是
包含選擇空間、評估空間
與準則空間之內部結構
的單一決策，每一個問題
都跟議題空間所關聯，用
來解釋每一個決策後面
的推理，就像是解釋各個
問題之間的關連性。 
圖2. 設計合理化模型 
選擇空間集中於多樣性選擇，包含了合乎過去經驗或邏輯上曾經被排除的可能性
與其關係。每一個選擇性可透過名詞性、順序性或是連續性的方式進行評估。評
估空間具有評估機制與任何的相互關係，並且容許我們對於爭論空間的兩個部份
做區別：(1)一個特殊的選擇為什麼有它目前的評估之爭論；(2)選擇性自身的爭
論[8]。 
 
3.3 模糊邏輯推理於不確定性資訊 
對於不確定性資訊的決策方
法 最 好 的 方 式 莫 過 於 由
Zadeh(1965)所提出的模糊邏
輯[3] [18]。基本上，使用模糊
邏輯來處理有關人類思考推
理與決策的問題時，就是以電
腦模擬人類的推理歷程。典型
的模糊邏輯方法由五個主要
功能所組成[13]：輸入訊息模
糊化(Input fuzzification)、模糊
推 理 運 算 元 (Fuzzy 
operators) 、 推 論 結 果
(Consequence)、推論結果集合
(Aggregation of consequences)
以及解模糊(Defuzzification)。 
 
圖3. 模糊專家系統架構[9] 
 
 5
4研究方法
 
圖 4. 研究方法架構 
在使用者參與的過程中，主要有三種問題：(1)大多數客戶無法清楚表達自身的
需求； (2)大多數客戶對於設計知識的缺乏； (3)通常對於設計師所使用的軟體
工具並不熟悉。針對這些問題，此研究中提出相對的解決方式(如表 1) 
表 1. 使用者參與設計過程主要問題與解決方式 
 問題 解決方式 
1 大多數客戶無法清楚表達自身的需求 
透過模糊理論幫助於獲取客戶心中的
想法 
2 大多數客戶對於設計知識的缺乏 透過知識庫系統用於支援使用者的知識、活動與控制 
3 通常對於設計師所使用的軟體工具並不熟悉 
透過 3D 呈現的直覺式操作系統幫助於
使用者更直覺的與設計元素互動 
 
本研究經過了以下的設計方法整合流程： 
1. 設計合理化模型的整合 
設計合理化不只探討決策後面的支持論點，更幫助使用者進行設計、多選項的判
定、決策過程的紀錄與評估。圖 5 為 DR 的第一個模型。在設計程序中有一系列
的設計任務。每個任務都需考慮多種的決策選項與議題。議題空間用來呈現所有
議題的環境，所呈現出來的是一種階層式的結構。每個議題的處理會影響到其他
的決策。每個議題間包括特殊化、一般化的結構關係。每個議題空間會連結到多
選項空間，多選項空間表現出議題空間後的考慮層面。其明確的表示出多選項之
間的關係、結構與支持決策的論點。每個選項應該包含一個或多個論據去描述什
麼是這個選項的設計方式與其優缺點。評估空間則顯示其評估狀態，如很好、好、
 7
4. 建築平面設計知識庫系統之建構 
 
圖 8.  知識庫系統架構 
本研究的知識庫架構如圖 8 所示，透過模糊專家系統的推論引擎的整合，整個系
統的架構分成三個部份：1.操作階段(Operational Process)。2.知識推論階段
(Knowledge Inference Process)。3.知識獲取階段(Knowledge Acquisition Process)，
如圖 8 所示。 
 
本系統的操作介面如下列圖所示： 
  
圖 9. 詢問視窗 圖 10. 直覺式操作的設計空間 
 
 
 
圖 11. 3D 決策樹 圖 12. 使用 FuzzyTech 進行模糊推論 
 
 
 9
6參考文獻
1. Calvo, O. and Cartwright, J.H.E.: 1998, FUZZY CONTROL OF CHAOS, 
International Journal of Bifurcation and Chaos, 8: 1743-1747. 
2. Chien, S.-F. and Shih, S.-G.: 2000, A Web Environment to Support User 
Participation in the Development of Apartment Buildings, in, InterSymp2000, 
Baden-Baden, pp: 225-231. 
3. Croitoru, A. and Doytsher, Y.: 2003, "“Fuzzy” Fuzzy-Logic for spatial 
decision making: Accounting for data uncertainty." The 7th South East Asian 
Survey Congress, Hong-Kong 
4. Garceau, L.;Jancura, E. and Kneiss, J.: 1993, Object oriented analysis and 
design: a new approach to systems development, Journal of Systems 
Management, 44: 25-33. 
5. Granath, J.A.: 2001, "Architecture – participation of users in design 
activities." International Encyclopedia of Ergonomics and Human Factors 
6. Ho, C.-N.: 2000. Modeling of Consumers' Intention in Buying a House, Master 
Thesis, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. 
7. Lee, J.: 1997, Design Rationale Systems: Understanding the Issues, IEEE 
Expert: Intelligent Systems and Their Applications, 12 (3): 78 - 85  
8. Lee, J. and Lai, K.-Y.: 1996 "What's in design rationale?"  in, Design 
rationale: concepts, techniques, and use, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc., 
pp: 21 - 51. 
9. Lin, X.-C. and Peng, Q.-F.: 1994, Oh! Fuzzy, The 3rd wave, Taipei. 
10. Nath, B.: 1993, "What is a fuzzy expert system?"  
11. Nilkaew, P.: 2006, Assistant Tool for Architectural Layout Design by Genetic 
Algorithm, in, International Conference on Computer Aided Architectural 
Design Research in Asia, Kumamoto Japan, pp: 641-643. 
12. Petric, J.;Maver, T.W.;Conti, G. and Ucelli, G.: 2002, Virtual Reality in the 
Service of User Participation in Architecture, in, CIB W78, Aarhus, pp: 
217-224. 
13. Samadzadegan, F.;Rezaeian, M. and Hahn, M.: 2000, A robust automatic 
digital terrain modeling method based on fuzzy logic. International Archives 
of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, in, pp: 799-806. 
14. Shneiderman, B.: 1997, Direct Manipulation for Comprehensible, Predictable 
and Controllable User Interfaces, in, 2nd international conference on 
Intelligent user interface, Orlando, USA, pp: 33-39. 
15. Snibbe, S.S.: 1995, A direct manipulation interface for 3D computer 
animation., in, Computer Graphics Forum, pp: 271–284. 
16. Tweed, C. and Woolley, T.: 1992, USER PARTICIPATION IN DESIGN: 
TECHNIQUES FOR DIALOGUE, in, User Participation, Lausanne 
(Switzerland), pp: 17-24. 
17. Xiao, L. and Hao, X.: 1999, A Knowledge Base System in the Residential 
Intelligent CAD System, in, CAADRIA, Shanghai, pp: 161-170. 
18. Zadeh, L.A.: 1965, Fuzzy sets, Information and Control, 8: 338-353. 
 11
四、附錄 
Integrated Physically Based Manipulation and Decision-making Tree 
for Navigation to Support Design Rationale 
Ji-Hyun Lee and Tian-Chiu Li 
 Graduate School of Computational Design, National Yunlin University of Science & Technology,  
Touliu, Yunlin 640, Taiwan 
{jihyun, g9434714}@yuntech.edu.tw 
Abstract. We explore the idea of integrated physically based manipulation and 
decision-making tree for navigation to support design rationale. It introduces a way to support 
user participation. This paper also proposes and validates a framework which combines 
several techniques to aid user to make decisions. We hope this research can assist untrained 
users to quickly feel comfortable and satisfied for a computer aid system by rational way. This 
paper focuses on a system prototype for the client customization process in apartment plan 
design to exemplify our concepts. 
Keywords: Rational, Navigation, Decision-making tree, Fuzzy 
1   Introduction 
It places importance on user participation in contributing to the success of a generative system has been 
a long held theoretical belief [10]. There are two fundamental issues in user participation：First, most 
users have little knowledge about design professionals. Second, the users are novices who may not 
easily manipulate the software the designers use. Research prototypes and applications address the first 
question by rational knowledge-intensive systems. When users need the knowledge of design for 
rational, the system should guide them to the goal through vast information space. To search and 
visualize the vast information space, building decision-making trees is necessary for navigation. 
Navigation is the cognitive theory that incorporates landmarks as general orientation points and be able 
to display design spaces at arbitrary levels of details and allow users to identify their abstraction 
settings. Decision-making tree can provide a navigational manner that allows designers to access 
desired information in a generative design system easily. In addition, decision-making tree can be 
operated by user to enable knowledge management and reuse. It can help users to generate their 
alternatives and provide reasoning by causal relationships. Physically-based manipulation is introduced 
to address the second question, because it can let people understand their decisions easily by interacting 
design elements intuitively and iteratively in the schematic design layout process. This paper proposes 
a 3D generative system using navigation concept to integrate physically-based manipulation and 
rational decision-makings to help apartment buyer to participate the layout design through information 
space. 
M.J. Smith, G. Salvendy (Eds.): Human Interface, Part I, HCII 2007, LNCS 4557, pp. 480–489, 2007. 
© Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2007 
 13
concepts from fuzzy set theory, and it has emerged as a criterion of intelligent control 
capable of dealing with complex and ill-defined problems [5]. The process of 
designing fuzzy logic systems is explained by the following development steps [5]: 
(1). Fuzzification: defining linguistic variables and types of membership 
functions to describe a situation. 
(2). Inference: formulating the proposition logic such as IF-THEN statements 
to make fuzzy rules for inference. 
(3). Defuzzification: obtaining the crisp results. 
 
For having a steady rational design process, it builds a knowledge base system is 
necessary. Knowledge base system supports the user’s actions or controls and prompts 
the user’s intention so that the user can design drawings according to the standard or 
the best way [11]. The rule of knowledge in knowledge base system can include fuzzy 
theory and expert knowledge to infer recommend of design for user. But, knowledge 
base system has self contradiction and redundancy information problems [11].  
Navigation is a way which can look for useful material in large information spaces. 
Navigable space has become a new tool of labor and a common way to visualize and 
work with any data, since it can be used to represent both physical spaces and abstract 
information spaces [7]. Many researchers have suggested that imposing a spatial 
structure to information spaces (regardless of their inherent structures) could make the 
task of seeking information a more effective and pleasing activity [3]. A decision 
making cone tree (Fig.1), it is one of the best known 3D graph layout techniques in 
information visualization [4], supports user to present and record user’s motive and 
history path. It also navigators predict goal for design process.  
 
 
Fig. 2. Cone tree (Image courtesy of Palo Alto Research Center; Brian Tramontana, photographer.) 
In order to advance navigation, one of the geometric models, known as direct 
manipulation (DM), however, can support design integration in terms of continuous 
representation of the objects and actions of interest; physical actions or presses of 
labeled buttons instead of complex syntax; and rapid incremental reversible 
operations whose effect on the object of interest is immediately visible [9].  
 15
operation procedure of physically-based manipulation as well as constructs a node of 
decision tree, which can help users to know the solution path of the design 
decision-making process. In evaluate action phase, we build a generative system 
which can generate prototype in a show time, so that user can find plausible solutions 
and judging the validity of solutions relative to the goals and selection among 
alternatives. Finally, evaluate plan phase will justify decision-making tree by rational 
design management. The process of designing consists of a long series of design 
decisions tree so that we can analyze causal-effect history path by rational design 
management that attempts to capture the rationale behind the design (required 
decisions, the reasoning behind the choice of final solution(s) and dependencies 
between decision nodes). The system has an optimization design rationale network 
which will match with the decision making tree. After that, it can infer the related 
knowledge and suggest design advices or solutions to user. 
 
 
Fig. 3. Modified from the generic information-processing model by Gordon [6] 
 17
4   Prototype system 
4.1   Implementation 
The prototype implements various components based on the framework introduced in Section 3: the 
knowledge base and inference module implemented by commercial software (fuzzyTECH), a 3D layout 
generator implemented using physically based manipulation, a design justification module, and a 
graphical user interface (GUI) module. Fig. 3 shows the Fuzzy inference using by fuzzyTech. 
 
 
Fig. 3. Fuzzy Inference by fuzzyTech 
The 3D layout generator is implemented using Jogl on top of OpenGL as APIs, to 
visualize and provide an efficient physically based manipulation mechanism to 
communicate between the user and the system. The design justification represented by 
a decision tree is implemented using the Java programming language. Finally, we 
built a GUI implemented by Java to communicate with the fuzzyTECH Java Runtime 
Library and Jogl for the 3D layout generator, and to seamlessly integrate all the 
modules with a coherent interface. 
The GUI of our system includes three major parts: (1) a query window to capture the 
user requirements and preferences, (2) a 3d decision cone tree window to record 
design alternatives created by the user manipulation and to support the design 
justification, and (3) a main window to visualize the 2D and 3D floor plan. 
4.2   Result of the Application to Apartment Customization Process 
The purpose of this research is helpful to apartment customization process in real 
world. We provide a scenario to describe practical application. We show the work 
flow between client and agency in Fig. 4. 
When a client is willing to buy a pre-sale apartment, he/she will go to the sale agency 
to acquire information of unit. If all condition is satisfy except layout, he/she could 
ask the agency that he wants to modify the layout. In this moment, agency can 
provide the generative system to help client express what kind of layout he/she want. 
 19
edge of the component. The updating immediately propagates to the 3D model. 
After client is satisfied, he/she can make a deal with agency to change the layout of 
unit. 
 
 
Fig. 6. A 3d decision cone tree window 
 
Fig. 7. Main window for 2D & 3D floor plan 
5   Conclusion 
This paper presents a new rational approach by integrating the decision-making tree 
with 3D physically based manipulation for the client customization process in 
apartment plan design. We also provide a research model to validate system ability. 
This research project forms a comprehensive study, of which only a summarized 
version of the findings can be presented here. Nonetheless, there is clearly a large 
number of interesting research issues is raised. For example, intelligent adjustment is 
a good topic for fuzzy rule base. How does system use rational to assist in problem 
diagnosis and solution. And, how does system collect people’s feedback and 
evaluation of design alternatives. 
 21
 附件一 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ; 成 果 報 告   □  期中進度報告 
 
以直接操作方式藉由案例推演達成使用者參與及決策制定 
計畫類別：;個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-224-043 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日  至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：李知炫 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 研究助理-劉懷幃、張銘倫 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：;精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
;出席國際學術會議發表之論文一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列管
計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位： 
中   華   民   國  九  十  六 年 八 月  十  日 
 
 23
Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and 
Technology Tokyo, Japan 
 
- Short presentation "HCI activities of Microsoft 
Research Asia" by Jian Wang. 
• Gala dinner  
• Parallel paper presentations Day 1  
• Poster presentations  
• Exhibition 
Wednesday, 25 July 2007 
• Parallel paper presentations Day 2  
• Poster presentations  
• Exhibition 
Thursday, 26 July 2007 
• Parallel paper presentations Day 3  
• Poster presentations  
• Exhibition 
Friday, 27 July 2007 
 
 
二、與會心得 
本次會議提供了一個相當好的學術交流環境，使與會的學者都能展現、交流最新的研究成果。
會議所涵蓋的範圍 Ergonomics and Health Aspects of Work with Computers、Human Interface and 
the Management of Information、Human-Computer Interaction、Engineering Psychology and 
Cognitive Ergonomics、Universal Access in Human-Computer Interaction、Virtual Reality、Usability 
and Internationalization、Online Communities and Social Computing、Augmented Cognition 與 
Digital Human Modeling。 
 
本次會議總共有從 76 個國家大約 2300 位人士一起參與。超過 250 平行的 Presentation Sessions
及 Poster Session。被接受的 long paper 收錄於          出版之 Lecture Notes in Computer 
Science (LNCS)系列論文集。此篇論文收錄於 Volume 8, LNCS_4557, ISBN:978-3-540-73344-7。 
 
此次的會議相當特別，涵蓋的範圍及領域相當的廣泛。最大的收穫是了解各個國家與大學對
於 HCI 領域的研究主軸、研究程度與發展趨勢，這些交流對於今後研究計畫的執行與未來研
究方向的規劃將有莫大的助益。 
