 2
OVERCOMING LOAD DISCONTINUITY IN STEP-BY-STEP 
SOLUTION SHOCK RESPONSE 
 
 
SHUENN-YIH CHANG* 
 
 
Department of Civil Engineering 
National Taipei University of Technology 
NTUT Box 2653, Taipei 106-08, Taiwan, Republic of China 
 
Keywords: shock response, time history analysis, discontinuity 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 A scheme is proposed to overcome the discontinuity at the end of an impulse. This scheme is 
very simple in the step-by-step solution of shock response. The only change is the loading input at 
the time instant of load discontinuity in performing the step-by-step integration. The average value 
of the two discontinuity values at the integration point of load discontinuity is used to replace the 
use of one of them for loading input. The motivation of this change originates from the concept of 
no loading input error associated with the integration point of load discontinuity. The feasibility of 
this scheme is analytically explored. Analytical results reveal that this change in loading input will 
lead to no extra impulse and thus no extra displacement. Consequently, an accurate shock response 
can be computationally efficiently obtained. Some numerical examples are also used to confirm the 
analytical results. It is apparent that the scheme proposed will not increase any computational effort 
or complicate the dynamic analysis codes. 
 
                                                 
*  Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, National Taipei University of Technology, NTUT Box 2653, No. 1, 
Section 3, Jungshiau East Road, Taipei 10608, Taiwan, Republic of China. Tel: 886-2-2771-2171ext 2653, Fax: 
886-2-2781-4518 and E-mail: changsy@ntut.edu.tw 
 4
order to verify the feasibility of this scheme, the Newmark explicit method is chosen for this study 
since it is very commonly used for the shock response analysis. For this purpose, the response to an 
impulse, which has a discontinuity at its end, is theoretically obtained from the fundamental theory 
of the structural dynamics, and from the Newmark explicit method, where a spectral decomposition 
technique (Strang 1986) is used to mathematically evaluate the response. After comparing these two 
results, amplitude distortions can be thoroughly assessed and the superiority of the proposed 
scheme is verified. Numerical examples are also used to confirm the analytical results.  
 
INITIAL VALUE PROBLEM 
 In general, the equation of motion for an undamped single degree of freedom system can be 
expressed as 
 
 fkuum =+  (1) 
 
where m , k  and f  are the mass, stiffness and external force; u  and u  are the displacement 
and acceleration. The initial value problem for equation (1) is to find a solution ( )tuu =  satisfying 
the initial conditions ( ) 00 du =  and ( ) 00 vu = , where 0d  and 0v  are the initial displacement and 
velocity.  
 
 A closed-form solution of the equation of motion can be obtained if the dynamic loading is 
expressed by means of simple analytical functions. Thus, in order to have a closed-form solution for 
comparison a linear impulse is chosen for this study. The choice of this impulse is also because that 
it can have many different shapes and be with or without a load discontinuity at its end. In general, 
the linear impulse is expressed as 
 
 
( ) ( )
( )
                  0
0                                          
d
d
d
tf t a b a t t
t
f t t t
⎛ ⎞= + − ≤ ≤⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
= ≤
 (2) 
 
where dt  is the loading duration, and a  and b  are given constants. It is clear that a 
 6
adopted. It is apparent that the input error caused by the discontinuity immediately upon 
termination of the applied impulse will lead to a displacement response error and should be further 
studied. It should be mentioned that the input error caused by load discontinuity not only occurs in 
an applied impulse but also for a general dynamic loading, which will be explored elsewhere. 
 
PROPOSED SCHEME FOR OVERCOMING LOAD DISCONTINUITY 
 The previous section illustrates that the load discontinuity at the end of an impulse will cause 
an input error, i.e., a step discretization error, and hence amplitude distortion, due to the difficulty 
in selecting an appropriate input data at the time instant of load discontinuity. Since the shock 
response to an impulse is almost linearly proportional to the total amount of the impulse, amplitude 
distortion can be significantly reduced if the input error at the time instant of discontinuity is largely 
reduced or even eliminated. Therefore, it might be very promising to adjust the input data at the 
time instant of load discontinuity so that there is no input error. Based on this concept, a scheme is 
proposed to overcome the discontinuity at the end of an impulse and its details are described next. 
 
 In order to have a zero input error at the end of an impulse, the adjusted dynamic loading at the 
time integration point of load discontinuity can be simply taken to be the average value of the two 
discontinuity values of input data C  and D , and the resultant is equal to 12 b . This is depicted in 
figure 2, where the common use of input data C  is replaced by the input data of Z  if using the 
proposed scheme. In other words, the sequence of ABZEF"  is adopted for the step-by-step 
integration. In this figure, the area of triangle BCZ  is equal to the area of triangle DEZ . Hence, 
there is no input error at the integration point of load discontinuity for the applied impulse. This is 
because that the missing input impulse of the area of triangle BCZ  is compensated by the extra 
input impulse of the area of triangle DEZ . This proposed scheme is very simple and involves no 
extra computational efforts. In fact, the only change is the use of the loading amount of 12 b  to 
replace b  at the time instant of load discontinuity. In order to analytically confirm the feasibility 
of this scheme, the shock response to the linear impulse is theoretically and numerically obtained 
for comparisons next. 
 
 8
DISCRETE NUMERICAL SOLUTIONS 
 To analytically show that the discontinuity at the end of an impulse will lead to an amplitude 
distortion in the step-by-step integration, and the proposed scheme can computationally efficiently 
overcome this difficulty, the Newmark explicit method is selected to solve equation (1) and its 
formulation can be expressed as 
 
 ( ) ( )
( )( )
1 1 1
21
21
1
21 1
n n n
n n n n
n n n n
ma kd f
d d t v t a
v v t a a
+ + +
+
+ +
+ =
= + ∆ + ∆
= + ∆ +
 (5) 
 
where nd , nv  and na  are approximations to ( )ntu , ( )ntu  and ( )ntu . This integration method 
can be rewritten in a recursive matrix form as (Belytschko and Hughes 1983; Bathe 1996) 
 
 1 1n n nf+ += +x Ax l  (6) 
 
where ( ) ( )2, ,n n n nd t v t a⎡ ⎤= ∆ ∆⎣ ⎦
T
x , and the explicit expressions of the amplification matrix A  
and load vector L  are found to be 
 
 ( ) ( )
1
2
2 2 2 21 1 1 1 1
2 2 2 2 2
2 2 21
2
1 1 0
11 1 ,
- 1
k
⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎛ ⎞⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥= − Ω − Ω − Ω = Ω⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥−Ω Ω − Ω⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦
A l  (7) 
 
After the repeated substitution of equation (6), the whole step-by-step integration procedure is 
found to be 
 
 ( )11 0 1
0
n
n in
n i
i
f−++ +
=
= + ∑x A x A l  (8) 
 
where the vector corresponding to the zero initial data is found to be ( )20 00, 0, /f k⎡ ⎤= Ω⎣ ⎦Tx  
since 000 == vd . 
 
 10
 
( )1
1
1           1
0                                     1
i
i
if a b a i p
p
f p i
+
+
⎛ ⎞+= + − + ≤⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
= < +
 (12) 
 
for the ( ) thi −+1  time step. After substituting equation (12), where either the input sequence of 
Scheme 1 or 2 is employed, into equation (11), the discrete displacement solution for the forced 
vibration response at the ( )1n th+ −  time step as ( )1n p+ ≤  is found to be 
 
 1
1 1sin ( 1) cos ( 1)
sinn
b a a b a n ad n n
k p k k p k+
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞− − +⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞= − ⎡ + Ω⎤ − ⎡ + Ω⎤ + +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦Ω⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠  (13) 
 
Similarly, the discrete displacement solution for the free vibration response can be obtained for both 
Schemes 1 and 2. As a result, it is found to be 
 
 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
( ) ( ) ( )
1
21
1 cos
sin tan sin 1
sin
sin
cos cos 1
sin
n
pa b a bd p n p
k k p k
pa b a bp n p
k k p k
+
⎧ ⎫⎡ ⎤− Ω−⎪ ⎪⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎡ ⎤= Ω + + Ω + − Ω⎢ ⎥⎨ ⎬⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎣ ⎦Ω⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎢ ⎥⎪ ⎪⎣ ⎦⎩ ⎭
⎧ ⎫⎡ ⎤Ω−⎪ ⎪⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎡ ⎤− Ω + − + − Ω⎢ ⎥⎨ ⎬⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎣ ⎦Ω⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎢ ⎥⎪ ⎪⎣ ⎦⎩ ⎭
 (14) 
 
for Scheme 1 and  
 
 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
( ) ( ) ( )
1
21
1 cos
sin tan sin 1
sin
sin
cos cos 1
sin
n
pa b a bd p n p
k k p k
pa b a bp n p
k k p k
+
⎧ ⎫⎡ ⎤− Ω−⎪ ⎪⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎡ ⎤= Ω + − Ω + − Ω⎢ ⎥⎨ ⎬⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎣ ⎦Ω⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎢ ⎥⎪ ⎪⎣ ⎦⎩ ⎭
⎧ ⎫⎡ ⎤Ω−⎪ ⎪⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎡ ⎤− Ω + − + − Ω⎢ ⎥⎨ ⎬⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎣ ⎦Ω⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎢ ⎥⎪ ⎪⎣ ⎦⎩ ⎭
 (15) 
 
for Scheme 2 at the ( ) thn −+1  step as ( )1p n≤ + . These two equations of numerical solutions 
are very similar to the theoretical solution shown in equation (4). However, some differences are 
still found due to numerical integration itself and load discontinuity. 
 
Discrete Solution for Using Scheme 3 
 12
Forced Vibration Response 
 The displacement response error in the forced vibration response is manifested from 
comparing equations (13) to (3) for the three schemes. It is apparent that the steady-state response is 
exactly obtained in a step-by-step integration procedure. However, period and amplitude distortions 
are found in the transient response. In fact, the period is distorted from ω  (or Ω ) to ω  (or Ω ) 
and the amplitude is distorted from ( ) ( )/b a kp− Ω  to ( ) ( )/ sinb a kp− Ω  in the sine term. Since 
the period distortion characteristics of the Newmark explicit method have been well explored they 
will not be elaborated here (Zienkiewicz 1977; Belytschko and Hughes 1983; Hughes 1987). 
However, in order to measure amplitude distortion, the relative amplitude error is defined to be 
similar to the relative period error and is  
 
 amp
A AE
A
−=  (17) 
 
where A  is the amplitude of the numerical solution while A  is that of the theoretical solution. 
For the free vibration response, they are found to be 
 
 
22 21 1,
sin
b a a b a aA A
k p k k p k
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞− −⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞= + = +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟Ω Ω⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
 (18) 
 
Apparently, there is only a slight difference between A  and A .  
 
 Since the duration dt  is assumed to be equally subdivided into p  time steps a large value of 
p  will lead to a small value of Ω . Therefore, it is more appropriate to plot the relative amplitude 
error with pΩ  than Ω  since for a large value of p  only the small values of Ω  are of interest. 
The relative amplitude error defined in equation (17) for the three impulses are plotted in figure 3, 
where the three values of 1=p , 2 and 5 are considered. For the rising and descending triangular 
impulses, the relative amplitude error has a zero value at the origin and then increases with the 
increase of pΩ  for each curve. In addition, it decreases with the increasing value of p  for a 
given value of pΩ . This is because that a large value of p  implies a small time step and hence 
 14
from 1 as Ωp  tends to 0 and then increases with the increasing value of Ωp  for Scheme 1 and it 
is exactly equal to −1 for any Ωp  for Scheme 2. Whereas, for Scheme 3, the relative amplitude 
error nearly starts from 0 as Ωp  approaches 0 and then gradually increases with the increase of 
Ωp . Similar phenomena are found in the middle and bottom plots of this figure although different 
starting values are found as Ωp  tends to 0 for Schemes 1 and 2. Employing the result of the 
previously published paper (Chang, 2003), these starting values can be reliably estimated from 1p±  
as Ωp  approaches 0 for the rising triangular impulse. It is found that the relative amplitude errors 
are as large as 1± , 0.5±  and 0.2±  corresponding to 1p = , 2 and 5 if using Schemes 1 and 2. 
Whereas, the relative amplitude errors always remain close to 0 for any pΩ  for 1p = , 2 and 5 if 
using Scheme 3. This confirms that the proposed scheme can overcome the difficulty caused by the 
discontinuity at the end of an impulse and thus there is no extra amplitude distortion introduced. 
 
 Numerical results for the rectangular impulse as show in figure 5 are similar to those found in 
figure 4. However, the relative amplitude error correspondingly becomes about a half of that of the 
rising triangular impulse for Schemes 1 and 2 for a small value of pΩ . This is because that the 
total amount of the rectangular impulse is twice of that of the rising triangular impulse (Chang 
2003). In fact, the relative amplitude error for the rectangular impulse can be estimated by 12 p±  as 
Ωp  approaches 0 for Schemes 1 and 2. It is anticipated that the relative amplitude error for a given 
pΩ  for the descending triangular impulse must be much smaller than that of the rising triangular 
and rectangular impulses if using Schemes 1 and 2 since there is no discontinuity at the end of this 
impulse. Figure 6 shows the variations of relative amplitude errors with Ωp  for the descending 
triangular impulse. It is found that Schemes 1, 2 and 3 have exactly the same relative amplitude 
error for a given Ωp  for 1p = , 2 and 5 for the descending triangular impulse. This is because 
that the extra term in equations (14) and (15) will disappear as 0b =  and thus equations (14), (15) 
and (16) become the same as 0b = . Hence, no extra amplitude distortion is introduced for 
Schemes 1 and 2.  
 
NUMERICAL VERIFICATIONS 
 Analytical studies clearly show that the proposed scheme can overcome the difficulty caused 
by the discontinuity at the end of an impulse. Due to this discontinuity, it is also found that the use 
 16
the rising triangular impulse, is introduced into the system. Hence, a zero solution is achieved. 
Apparently, this is also manifested from the fact that a zero load is inputted for each time 
integration point. On the other hand, it is amazing to find that a very accurate solution can be 
obtained from Scheme 3 since it almost coincides with the theoretical solution. This figure reveals 
that Scheme 1 will lead to an amplitude growth effect and Scheme 2 will result in an amplitude 
decay effect while Scheme 3 can have a very reliable solution. These numerical results are highly 
consistent with the analytical results. 
 
 In order to illustrate that the proposed scheme also can be applied to other integration methods, 
the constant average acceleration method, which is classified as an implicit method, is used to solve 
this problem although an implicit method is generally inappropriate for solving a shock response 
(Zienkiewicz 1977; Belytschko and Hughes 1983; Hughes 1987). Numerical results are plotted in 
figure 8. It is apparent that the results obtained from the constant average acceleration method are 
very similar to those obtained from the Newmark explicit method. Thus, it is strongly indicated that 
the proposed scheme can be applied by other integration methods to overcome the difficulty arising 
from the discontinuity at the end of an impulse. 
 
Example 2 --- Responses to Rectangular Impulse for 2-story Shear-Beam Building 
 A 2-story shear-beam type building is considered in this example. Both stories are subjected to 
a rectangular impulse with a magnitude of 45 10× N. The loading duration is taken as 0.01 dt sec= . 
The structural properties of this building are 21 2 10  m m kg= =  and 41 2 5 10  /k k N m= = × . Based 
on these structural properties, the natural frequencies of the building are found to be 13.82 and 
36.18 /rad sec . The Newmark explicit method is used to obtain the shock responses and numerical 
solutions are plotted in figure 9. The result obtained from using a time step of 0.0001 t sec∆ =  is 
considered as an “exact” solution for comparison. In addition, the time step of 0.01 t sec∆ =  is 
also used to compute the shock responses for the three schemes. For this time step, the values of 
/t T∆  are found to be about 145  and 117  for the first and second modes, respectively. This implies 
that period distortion is negligible for both modes. However, significant amplitude distortion is 
found in the results obtained from Schemes 1 and 2 for both stories while the solution computed 
 18
 
 Numerical results for the shock responses from the rectangular impulse at the fixed end of the 
bar are plotted in figure 10. The numerical solution obtained from the Newmark explicit method for 
Scheme 1 with the time step of 82.0 10−× sec  (or 1000=p ) are considered as an “exact” solution. 
The result obtained from using Scheme 1 with a time step of 52.0 10t −∆ = × sec  shows significant 
amplitude growth, while that obtained from the use of Scheme 2 exhibits significant amplitude 
decay. However, Scheme 3 gives pretty good results. In fact, the maximum amplitudes of the shock 
responses for the exact solution and those obtained from Schemes 1, 2 and 3 are found to be 9.531, 
14.395, 4.800 and 9.595, respectively, at the time of 0.00522 t sec= . Thus, the corresponding 
relative amplitude errors are 0.510, −0.496 and 0.001 for Schemes 1, 2 and 3. On the other hand, for 
 0.0063 0.32p≤ Ω ≤ , the relative amplitude errors for Schemes 1, 2 and 3 can be directly found 
from the top plot of figure 5 and are in the range of 0.500 0.508ampE≤ ≤ , 0.500 0.491ampE− ≤ ≤ −  
and 0.000 0.004ampE≤ ≤ , respectively. Since the total response is a combination of each modal 
response its relative amplitude error should be within the corresponding range for Schemes 1, 2 and 
3, respectively. Consequently, the relative amplitude errors found in the numerical solutions are in 
good agreement with analytical predictions. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 Although two schemes have been successfully proposed to overcome the difficulty caused by 
the discontinuity at the end of an impulse as a step-by-step integration method is used to compute a 
shock response, each scheme still has its disadvantages in practice. Therefore, a novel scheme is 
proposed herein to overcome this difficulty without involving any disadvantage found in the two 
available schemes. This scheme is very simple in the step-by-step solution of a shock response. In 
fact, its step-by-step integration procedure is the same as that used for general applications except 
for the change of loading input at the time instant of load discontinuity. In this scheme, the loading 
input at the integration point of discontinuity is changed from the amount of the load discontinuity 
to a half amount of this value, i.e. the average value of the two discontinuity values. The feasibility 
of this scheme is analytically verified by investigating the Newmark explicit method. Analytical 
results reveal that this change in loading input will lead to no extra impulse and consequently no 
