 4 
 
Fig. 7. Court model 
 
Our experiences indicate that the four lines of h1, h2 , 
v1 and v3 can be detected reliably with the detection 
schemes mentioned before. Based on three of the four 
lines, we can estimate the missed lines using the 
geometric relation of court lines. For example, assume 
that p5′ and p6′ are detected first, as shown in Fig. 8(a). 
Because line proportion is constant, p7′ can be estimated 
with Eq.(3), where p5, p6 and p7 are defined in the 
reference model. By the similar way, p11′ can be 
estimated with Eq.(4).  
 
5 7 5 6 5 7 5 6p p p p p p p p′ ′ ′ ′ =     (3) 
13 15 14 15 13 15 14 15p p p p p p p p′ ′ ′ ′ =   (4) 
 
Therefore, the missed line of h4, 7 15p p′ ′ , is 
reconstructed. Also, the other missed line like h5, 
8 16p p′ ′ , can be estimated by the same way. Fig. 8 shows 
the reconstructed lines of h4 and h5; it is seen that the 
reconstruction is quite good.  
 
 
(a) missed lines of h4 and 
h5 
(b) reconstruction of (a) 
Fig. 8. Examples of horizontal line reconstruction 
 
3.2 Vertical line recovery 
When the camera is panning aside, some side lines 
are often out of the image frame. The right-side line 
misses for left-panning, and the left-side line misses for 
right-panning. Our experiences indicate that for the two 
line sets, v1, v2 and v3, or v3, v4 and v5, at least one set 
can be detected reliably when left-panning or right-
panning occurs. The missed lines can be estimated 
according to the symmetrical relation of v1↔v5, and of 
v2↔v4. The estimate procedure is illustrated by the 
example shown in Fig.9. Assume the left side line of v1 
(or v2 ) is given, and we would like to estimate the right 
side line of v4 (or v5). The p9 is the intersection point of 
v3 and h1. The line segment originated from p9 is 
perpendicular to v1 (or v2 ), which is represented as 
(r1 ,θ1) in polar coordinate system. Due to the 
symmetrical relation, we have r2=r1 and θ2=θ1 . Thus, 
the equation of v4 (or v5 ) can be easily estimated by the 
Eq.(5). Fig. 10 shows the result of the vertical line 
recovery. 
 
111 sincos ryx =+ θθ                                             (5) 
 
Fig. 9. Illustration of vertical line recovery 
 
From Fig. 10, we found that the recovery line does 
not match the real court line exactly, which means the 
recovered accuracy of the v5 is not quite good, Thus 
further adjustment is needed to compensate the error. 
We present a compensation procedure which is done by 
searching the real line within the neighborhood of the 
estimated line.  
We take an example to describe the procedure. As 
shown in Fig. 10, the estimated line of v5 and real line h5 
intersect at the point p20′. We open a small rectangular 
window centered at the p20′. Then, the block matching is 
performed to approach the real point p20 step by step. 
Fig. 11 shows the processed results of v5 and v1; it is 
obvious that the compensation is quite good.  
 
Fig. 10 Recovery of v5 line (marked in red) 
 
    
p20′ 
p5’ 
p6’ p14’ 
p13’ 
 2 
 
2. Court line detection(研究方法,場線偵測) 
 
The court line detection is performed for the first 
frame of a wide-angle shot which covers a whole court 
scene. The RGB color space is first transformed into 
HSV space. The detection of court line is then 
performed in V channel. Through binarization and noise 
removing, Radon transformation (RT) projects the court 
line image into peaks in Radon space, equations of court 
lines are detected from the Radon image. The block 
diagram of court-line detection process is shown in Fig. 
1, and the details will be described in the following. 
Fig. 1. Flow chart of court line detection 
 
2.1 Adaptive thresholding and binarization 
Our experiences indicate that for a whole court view, 
the non-court line pixels occupy more than 80% of the 
   
(a) court view (b) histogram 
 
(c) candidate bins in green dish lines 
Fig. 2. Illustration to find adaptive threshold 
 
total number of pixels of a frame. Thus, the court lines 
usually occupy a small number of white pixels that have 
higher intensity value. Therefore, these pixels of white 
court lines usually fall on the bins which have low 
counts and locate on the most right of the histogram of 
V channel. Fig. 2(a) and 2(b) show a court view and its 
histogram. The court line pixels probably locate in the 
bins with a red box. To detect the court line pixels, we 
need to find a threshold about at the left boundary of the 
red box. The pixels below the threshold are non-court-
line pixels, and those above the threshold are court-line 
ones. As mentioned before, the threshold should adapt 
to the changes of environments. We propose an adaptive 
thresholding scheme to detect court line pixels. 
Recall that the court lines often occupy a small 
number of pixels and have a high intensity (V) value. 
Therefore, we define the weights of all bins of V 
histogram as  
( ) ,  for 0,1,..., 255.1
i
i
h iw i
= =
+
  (1) 
where hi means the pixel count of the ith bin. The higher 
wi of a pixel, the higher probability of non-court line 
pixel it belongs to. We sort the histogram bins according 
to the descending order of weights. The candidates of 
non-court line pixels can be selected from the histogram 
bins with larger weight values. So, we select the 
candidates by accumulating the pixel counts of the 
sorted bins until the number of pixels accumulated 
reaches 80% of the total number of pixels. From the 
candidates selected, we assign the maximal bin as a 
threshold, as illustrated in Fig. 2(c). The threshold is 
then employed to determine each pixel as court-line 
pixel (greater than threshold) or non-court-line pixel 
(less than threshold). The result is shown Fig. 3(a). 
2.2 Noise removing 
After the binarization with the adaptive threshold, we 
obtain the binary image as shown in Fig. 3(a). It 
contains white pixels of other objects such as a player 
wearing in white, a white logo, and so on. These non-
line pixels are regarded as noises. To improve the 
accuracy of line detection, we intend to remove the 
noises using morphological operations, which contains 
three steps as follows.  
1) Blob removing: A referring structuring element (SE) 
is a rectangle, e.g. a 7x5 matrix of bit-1. We perform 
opening (erosion and then dilation) with the SE to 
the binary image, which removes the blobs larger 
than the SE. The result is shown in Fig. 3(b). (Then 
blob removing is done by the difference of two sets 
the binary image and remaining blobs). 
2) Linear object refinement: After blob removing, 
linear objects are refined by opening operations 
using flat linear SEs. SEs of l-length and θ
 
-angle are 
prepared, e.g. l=20 and θ = 0°, 1°,…, 179°. Then we 
refine linear objects by the repeatedly union of the 
opening results using these SEs, as shown in Fig. 
3(c). 
3) Thinning: At last, the linear objects are thinned into 
lines of 1-pixel wide, as shown in Fig. 3(d). 
 
 
 
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1Binarization threshold 
0 0.1 0 .2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
Adaptive thresholding 
and binarization 
Peak search in 
Radon space 
result 
Court view 
frame 
Noise 
removal 
Fig. 1. Flow chart of court line detection 
 
 圖 2. 報告會場 
視訊有效且高效率的事件偵測系統,本系統整合中間線索(mid-level cue)，包括計
分板資訊和鏡頭轉換樣式，形成事件偵測規則。首先一個簡單計分板偵測和辨識方
法，從球賽視訊，擷取比賽狀態。然後，場景分類器得到鏡頭轉換樣式。利用這些
中間線索，基於貝氐網絡(Bayesian Belief Network)，發展事件分類器，從貝氐網
絡推論結果，我們得到一組規則，並儲存到查詢表，最後使得事件分類工作如同簡
單查表運算，實驗結果顯示，本系統對十種重要事件，可以達到 95%精確率和 89%
召回率，本系統將來有很大發展。我個人認為這是一個很好的研究成果，會議中引
起了學者的興趣並做了意見的交流，並期待期刊論文的出現。 
(3) 會議心得： 
我所發表論文的場次共有 6篇論文，其中五篇來自日本大學，另外就是我所代
表的台灣。個人認為日本的大學所做的研究已經達到很好的水準，且他們參與研究
的態度也極為認真，雖然沒有很高深的理論，但他們的研究課題的實用價值高，而
且市場導向型的研究居多，這是印證實用性課題引導日本的學術研究，我覺得我們
在研究上不能鬆懈，因為在學術上的競爭雖然沒有煙硝，但是同樣激烈。 
基於研討會中的交流，本人回國後將儘速整理這篇論文，並投稿學術期刊，同
時本人也覺得出國參予研討會能夠與國外的學者交流，是一個難得腦力激盪的機
會，是很有意義的經驗。本人也將在未來更積極的參與未來在國外舉辦的研討會，
一方面擴展視野，觀摩別人砥礪自己，另一方面也能爭取學校的名譽，這是很有意
義的。 
其次我個人認為這次的研討會雖然包羅了很多的專業議題，但是因為領域間的
差異還是極大，因此削弱了對於個別議題深入探討的機會。因此淪為每個專業都有
但是每個都不深入，個人還是覺得稍嫌美中不足。這可能也是很多大型研討會的通
病。但是整體而言研討會還是成功的，尤其主辦單位的用心隨處都可以感受到。 
本次論文將會收錄在 IEEE 的資料庫。 
(4) 攜回物品及相片： 
1. 論文集 CD-ROM。 
