報告內容
以可裂解的高分子作為可控制釋放抗生素系統的塗層以治療及預防人
工關節感染
一、緣由與目的
利用聚合物來包覆材料及藥物，在釋放藥物預防感染(如用在靜脈導管)，目前無應用在人
工關節上。
在台灣大部份全髖關節都不用骨泥，所以含抗生素的骨泥預防感染方式就不適用，有許多
深度感染後的再值入的方法已被提出，但大部份為填充抗生素的骨泥。
目前用在控制藥物釋放的材料表面都是平坦的，而人工關節的表面則有許多孔洞。人類骨
頭向內生長情形在過6星期後大約是20.1±8.2%，12星期後約23.8%±7.9%與24星期後約為30±
5.1%(Bettina M. Willie, 2004)。利用PLGA可生物分解的特性，控制PLGA降解完的時間，
使之後骨頭能生長貼附在人工關節上。
本實驗部份包含:
1. 經抗生素溶液塗佈的人工關節，其抗生素是否會從材質表面釋出？不同材質的表面其對
抗生素的吸附性及釋出的能力是否有所不同？
2. 不同的抗生素溶液塗佈於不同的人工關節材質其所造成的局部抗菌效果可維持多久？
3. 用可生物裂解 polylactide-co- polyglycolide 共高分子材料塗布於前項含抗生素的人
工關節上，並利用不同的塗層數來達到可控制速率及長效抗菌效果。
三、實驗方法
1.定性研究:了解塗佈的抗生素是否會從人工關節材質表面釋出，達到抑菌的效果？
取出市面上常見的幾種人工關節的材料，其表面做四種不同製程處理(鈷鉻鉬合金結珠
表面、鈦合金結晶表面、鈦合金電漿塗層、鈦合金噴砂表面)。將三種不同的抗生素
Vancomycin、Cefazolin 和 Gentamycin 塗佈在前述的金屬表面。
因為標準藥物敏感性試驗為 6mm 直徑之 paper disc，其所含抗生素量分別為
Vancomycin - 30μg ，Cefazolin - 30μg，Gentamycin - 10μg。故我們設計調整抗生
素濃度(如附表一)，使加到金屬表面的抗生素為定量。取每次滴上 25μl 為經實際操作後
所得之適合量。另一組取 10 倍濃度原因在於接近臨床使用數值(臨床常用 1vial 抗生素塗
佈於整個人工關節表面，每單位面積的金屬材質其抗生素含量，實驗的 10 倍濃度與臨床使
用相近)。
表一、 抗生素濃度 (葉士豪, 2004)
Vancomycin 30μg/25μl 300μg(10X)
/25μl
Cefazolin 30μg/25μl 300μg(10X)
/25μl
Gentamycin 10μg/25μl 100μg(10X)
/25μl
經定量實驗發現金屬片上的抗生素大多都在一開始的 60 分鐘就釋放完畢，釋放時間較
少超過 2小時以上。
實驗三，一開始藥物大量釋放是基於兩種作用，破裂作用為藥物的包覆表面最直接的
反應，另外是擴散現象。PLGA 的降解一開始是從圓周邊緣開始降解，接著金屬片中心表面
才慢慢的降解(圖二)。這可能是因為在包覆 PLGA 後，金屬片周圍表面張力較大，PLGA 降解
速度較快，因此一開始先從周圍開始釋放藥物，接著利用 PLGA 降解來控制藥物釋放。
圖二 經過 PBS 溶液洗提(a)2 天 (b)4 天 (c)6 天
在有抗生素藥物的結晶面金屬片上包覆PLGA(85:15)釋放並抑制菌種可以達到3天以上;
而包覆 PLGA(50:50)可以達到 5天以上。另外在有抗生素藥物的噴砂面金屬片上包覆 15%
PLGA(85:15)與 5%及 15% PLGA(50:50)藥物釋放時間都可以達到 7天以上。
一般金屬片浸泡抗生素釋放時間卻最多只能達到兩小時，而有包覆 PLGA 的金屬片很明
顯可以延長控制抗生素釋放的時間。
本研究實驗的限制是無法去準確控制在金屬片上 PLGA 的包覆厚度，如圖三，在 coating
PLGA 後，金屬片的中間 PLGA 包覆層會比較厚，而這樣對控制藥物釋放系統會有些許影響。
另外本研究並無量測從 PLGA 包覆層中釋放出的藥物濃度，而是以對菌種的抑制來判斷，若
能量測每天所釋放的藥物濃度，這樣也許可以更精確地設計藥物釋放的系統。
圖三經過 PBS 溶液洗提 1~7 天金屬片的外觀
五、未來發展
控制藥物釋放的情形是很重要的，因此未來必須朝向更穩定精確地設計藥物釋放系統。
1.使用生化方法去定量出抗生素在溶液中的釋放量。
參考文獻
此計畫研究成果發表於國立成功大學醫學工程研究所 96 年畢業生陳信得之碩士論文。
並將投稿於今年 12 月之台灣醫學工程年會。
計畫成果自評
本研究之體外細菌培養實驗顯示，就人工關節預防感染之滅菌效果，由直接抗生素塗佈
在兩小時即釋放完畢，若表面塗上可降解PLGA高分子，其抗菌效果可延長到5-7天。達到本計
畫之第一階段目標。
表 Y04 
Knee Arthrodesis Using a Huckstep Titanium Nail: Techniques with 
Primary Compression, Sliding Bone Graft and Segmental 
Transportation.  
 
 
  
Abstract: 
 
Knee arthrodesis is a salvage surgery for failed total knee arthroplasties, certain neuromuscular 
disorders, severe destruction by trauma and after tumor resection. The results of different patient 
conditions with different methods of arthrodesis are quite variable. The authors have been applying 
the Huckstep nail for knee arthrodesis since 1988 in 68 patients. This method includes three 
techniques for different conditions. Technique I uses a short Huckstep nail with primary bone- 
to-bone compression in patients without bone defect or with bone defect less than 2.5cm. Technique 
II uses a short Huckstep nail with sliding pedicle bone graft for patients with 2.5 to 5 cm bone 
defect. Technique III uses a long Huckstep nail together with transportation of bone segment by 
distraction osteogenesis for patients with bone defect over 5cm. These techniques provide direct 
contact of viable bone at the fusion site and a stable fixation. Leg length can be maintained. Early 
ambulation and full-weight bearing are possible.  A hip prosthesis of normal length is not 
contraindicated in patients with Techniques I and II knee arthrodesis. With these 3 techniques, we 
are able to handle almost any conditions of knee arthrodesis with high successful and low 
complication rates. 
 
Key words: Knee arthrodesis, Huckstep nail, sliding bone graft, segmental transportation, 
distraction osteogenesis. 
表 Y04 
The Instrument: 
The Huckstep nail is a solid reconstruction nail made of titanium alloy with a quadrilateral cross 
section. There are 3 sizes of diameter—10.5, 11.5 and 12.5mm in the market. The 12.5 mm nail is 
applied for knee arthrodesis. Transverse interlocking holes 4.5mm in diameter are spaced 15mm 
apart along its entire length for insertion of 4mm-diameter fine-threaded tapered screws. The 
instrument includes targeting devices for drilling (Fig. 1). 
 
Preoperative planning: 
Roentgenogram of both knees is taken. The leg length discrepancy is measured with a scanogram 
which includes bilateral hips, knees and ankles. Bone defect is also estimated with the 
roentenogram but is measured during surgery. A shortness of 1.5 to 2.5 cm of the affected side 
compared to the sound side is deemed to be the most comfortable leg length after knee arthrodesis. 
The adequate length of nail is measured. The nail was prepared using a diamond-edged saw before 
surgery. The most commonly applied nail lengths are 22.5cm(14 holes) and 25.5cm(16 holes) in 
Techniques I and II. 
 
Techniques: 
 Technique I: Knee arthrodesis with a short Huckstep nail and primary compression (Fig. 2). 
 This technique is applied for patients without bone defect or with a bone defect less than 2.5cm.  
The procedure is performed with the patient in the supine position. A pneumatic torniquet is placed 
on the thigh and is inflated to a pressure of 300 to 350mmHg. A medial parapatellar approach 
similar to total knee arthroplasty is made. The implant, if any, is removed. Debridement and 
irrigation are done. Then the distal femur is reamed to a diameter of 13mm and to a depth 2cm 
shorter than the nail. The tibia is also reamed to 13mm in diameter with the depth half of the 
nail-length. The Huckstep nail of adequate length is inserted gently into the femoral canal in a 
retrograde manner until the last screw hole is still visible. The nail is rotated for easy handling of 
the hole with a drill bit. The nail is then advanced into the tibial canal by pushing and twisting the 
drill bit until half-length of the nail goes into the tibial canal. Two drill bits are inserted to two holes 
at the gap between the femur and the tibia. The targeting device is mounted on these two drill bits 
for drilling of the holes in the tibia. Four to six drill bits are inserted to the tibia. The two drill bits at 
the gap are removed. The tibia and the femur are compressed to each other with the knee in slight 
valgus and flexion position. Four to six drill bits are then inserted to the femur with the guidance of 
the targeting device. The targeting device is removed. Stability of the arthrodesis is checked. The 
drill bits are replaced with screws of appropriate lengths. The wound is closed with drainage tubes 
(Fig. 3). 
 
Technique II: Knee arthrodesis with a short Huckstep nail and sliding bone graft (Fig. 4) 
This technique is applied for patients with a bone defect of 2.5 to 5 cm. 
The procedure is similar to that of the Technique I except that the femur and the tibia are not 
compressed. After insertion of the tibial drill bits, the femur is also held in a slightly valgus and 
表 Y04 
 
A total of 68 knee arthrodesis procedures have been done by using the Huckstep nail in our institute 
since 1988. These contain 44 with Technique I., 16 with Technique II and 8 with Technique III. The 
reasons for knee arthrodesis are failed total knee arthroplasties (52), neoplasms(7), neuromuscular 
disorders(6), and trauma(3). 
Part of the results of the Technique I was published in our earlier report. The results remains 
excellent in recent follow-up. 
 
Fourteen patients with infected failed total knee arthroplasties (5 of them had received arthrodesis 
using an external fixation but failed) and two patients with trauma underwent the technique II. The 
leg length was restored. The result was similar to that of the Technique 1. But one had a broken nail. 
 
Eight procedures were done with Technique III. Seven were after tumor resections (four 
osteosarcoma, two chondrosarcoma and one giant cell tumor) and one was after trauma. Seven of 
them had successful fusion. One had a broken nail and another patient died of tumor metastasis. 
 
Average Operation time in techniques I, II and III is 87, 112 and 145 minutes respectively. 
Average Blood loss in techniques I, II and III is 324, 615 and 1090 ml respectively. 
 
Complications: 
One patients in the Technique III group died of distant metastasis of the malignant tumor(no local 
recurrence). Other complications include recurrence of infection in three, broken nail in two, broken 
screws(without fixation failures) in 16 and irritation of the screws in five. There were no 
neurovascular complications or pin tract infections in the patients with segmental transport. 
However, all the 8 patients underwent debridement and bone graft at the docking site at the end of 
transport. Two patients with recurrent infection were successfully controlled with antibiotics and 
debridement. The other patient with infection recurrence and fixation failure underwent 
debridement and renailing. The two patients with broken nail were treated with renailing and bone 
graft. The irritating screws were all removed.  
  
Possible Concerns and Future of the technique: 
 
The Huckstep nail has the advantages of versatility because the nail can be cut into the desired 
length for each patient and is very convenient in countries where a custom-made nail is not 
available. The multiple holes provide versatile choice for screw insertion that increases the fixation 
stability and maintains leg length. Howerver, the nail is straight, only a limited valgus and flexion 
angles can be achieved with the short nail. The knee is usually fused in full extension with the long 
nail. The largest diameter is 12.5 mm. Though we always applied the nail with this diameter for 
knee arhtrodesis, there are two broken nails. The inner diameters of the femur and the tibia are 
usually different and a nail of a unique diameter may not fit both the femur and the tibia. This nail 
