目錄 
一 前言                                                            1 
二 研究目地                                                        2 
三 文獻回顧                                                        2 
四 實驗設備與方法                                                  3 
五 結果與討論                                                      4 
六 結論                                                            8 
七 參考文獻                                                        8 
八 計劃成果自評                                                    9 
附件                                                              10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 式。探討 ECDM 運用於硼矽玻璃上其於微孔的加工速度、微孔形態與形狀精度，以期使加工
時間與微孔形態有良好改善效果。 
 
三 文獻回顧 
1968年Kurafuji[2]證實ECDM對非導電硬脆材料的加工能力，並嘗試在玻璃上鑽孔。1996
年 Basak[3]證實臨界電壓與電解液濃度有關，但由於加工機制中具有電解與放電雙重影響，
以致電化學放電加工仍有許多需要釐清的部份。1997 年 Basak[4]提出由於汽泡脫離陰極所產
生的 Switch Phenomenon 效應而產生類似在電氣迴路中 Breakdown 現象；同時提出在放電迴
路當中加入額外的電感器會提高材料移除率。1998 年 Jain 等人[5]認為 Switch Phenomenon 現
象並無法完全解釋放電火花產生機制，並提出相似於真空放電的模型解釋其實驗數據。1999
年 Bhattacharyya[6]提出對不同非導電材加工的的最佳參數。2001 年 Yan[7]歸納出 ECDM 的
火花的形成共有四個步驟，並提出加工特性和電解液與工件的化學蝕刻有關。2004 年
Wuthrich[8]等人以臨界電壓和電流作為基準，將電流與電壓作正常化處理(Normalized)，以此
無因次化的分析方式可將實驗的結果歸納為單純模型。 
亦有許多學者針對許多非導體材料，進行加工可行性之驗證。1991 年 Jain 等人[9]採用線
電極為加工電極，並對高分子複合材料作線放電加工測試。1999 年 Bhattacharyya 等人[10]提
出對不同非導電材加工的最佳參數，並在實驗中發現不同的電極外形，在材料的移除率上有
明顯的差別。2002 年 Jain[11]利用含有磨料的複合電極進行電化學放電加工，發現在材料受
熱軟化時，可以利用磨料對工件的研磨，增加加工速度。2002 年 Langen 等人[12]利用 WEDG
整修後的微電極，嘗試著對玻璃進行 3D 的微結構加工，但是在實驗中發現細小電極消耗嚴
重，因此難以控制加工精度。 
 
四. 實驗設備與方法 
電化學放電加工是藉由電極周圍產生的放電火花對材料進行融化與加速化學蝕刻的加工
方法。因此在進形微孔電化學放電加工前必須製作出所需的微電極直徑與外形。實驗所使用
的加工設備可分為兩個部份，分別為 WEDG 和 WCDM，如圖 1。第一部份為 WEDG 的微電
極整修機構機構；第二部份為實驗而設計的單臂加工槽微孔電化學放電加工機構。其中加工
槽是固定在精密滑軌上，限制加工槽只能上下滑動，當加工時則掛上砝碼，使加工槽沿滑軌
向上移動，讓玻璃工件接觸電極，電極抵住工件做接觸式加工(接觸力量為 30g)，加工槽是以
精密光學量錶進行深度控制，光學量表為數位式，可即時瞭解加工深度。同時為避免整修後
的電極因再次的夾持造成偏心，而影響加工結果的誤差，因此將兩組機構皆架設於精密雕模
放電加工機的工作平台上。 
實驗中各項加工參數則隨不同階段的實驗而改變，如電極幾何外形、界面活性劑添加量
和加工電壓形態。實驗結果分析分別以微孔入口孔徑、加工時間進行探討，並以 SEM 照片加
以對照經改善後的微孔外形。 
<<第 2頁，共 16 頁>>
 電極，由於扁平電極將電極側邊部分修整掉，所以電極面積加上放電柱所造成的熱影響區範
圍較小。因此，利用扁平電極的熱影響區較小的特性，以期對微孔入口的擴孔現象有所改善。 
實驗結果如圖 6 所示，由圖中可明顯得知入口孔徑同樣隨加工深度而上升，這也是因為
隨著加工深度增加，加工時間也持續增加，側面放電的影響隨之增大；但由於扁平電極之熱
影響區較小，故入口擴孔之擴孔量相較於圓柱電極所加工的微孔有明顯的減小。 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 3 (a)圓柱電極 SEM 圖                     圖 4 圓柱電極之入口孔徑與加工深度 
(b)扁平電極 SEM 圖                        關係圖 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 5 圓柱與扁平電極熱影響區示意圖           圖 6 扁平電極對入口孔徑的影響 
 
觀察圓柱與扁平電極之微孔 SEM 圖，如圖 7 所示，可以明顯看出扁平電極對於入口擴孔
現象有顯著的改善。圖中之圓柱電極的入口孔徑為 536μm，加工時間為 86.61 秒(加工深度為
450μm)，扁平電極之入口孔徑為 469μm，加工時間為 127.3 秒(加工深度為 450μm)，且對於
微孔之準直度亦有改善，可提高形狀精度。由於實驗是針對以入口孔徑擴孔改善為主要考量，
因此選定扁平電極作為較佳之電極形狀，以進行後續的改善效果驗證。 
 
 
 
<<第 4頁，共 16 頁>>
 性是負，因此利用陽離子型的界面活性劑添加於電解液中，以增加電解液對於工具電極的潤
濕性，進而減少絕緣汽泡膜的厚度。2.硼矽玻璃材料因材料表面在大氣環境或是強鹼的溶液
下，因氫氧基破壞玻璃中矽氧的鍵結(≣Si-O-Si≣)，使得表面產生帶有負電的矽酸凝膠。因
此可利用界面活性劑解離後所產生不同電荷的分子鏈段，增加電解液在微孔內的更新替換，
以改善加工品質及加工速度。因此嘗試添加陽離子型界面活性劑於電解液中，探討添加後對
於加工品質的改善。 
圖 9 為界面活性劑添加濃度與入口孔徑的關係圖。當添加濃度到達 20ppm 後，入口擴孔
降低到 442μm，為陽離子型界面活性劑最小之入口擴孔。在濃度大於 20ppm 之後，入口擴孔
又有上升的情況，推論是因為電解液的潤濕性在隨著界面活性劑濃度繼續增加，潤濕性太好
使汽泡不容易包覆電極，導致電極的絕緣汽泡膜不好建立，導致加工時間變長，使得擴孔現
象增加(圖 10)。因此後續的實驗中，陽離子型界面活性劑 CTAB 之添加濃度以 20ppm 為採用
參數。 
      
圖9 界面活性劑添加濃度與入口孔徑之關係  圖10 界面活性劑添加濃度與加工時間之關係 
 
5-3 脈衝型態能量輸入的改善效果 
以直流電壓為能量之輸入形態時，因為能量持續的供給導致新鮮電解液無法有效的進入
微孔內部，造成微孔內絕緣汽泡膜無法有效建立，使得加工速度變慢，加工時間增長。同時
也因為加工時間增加，側面放電仍然持續影響，使得入口之擴孔增加。 
在本節的實驗，則希望藉由改變輸入能量之型態，將輸入能量形式由直流波輸入改變成
脈衝方波輸入。此種方法是利用脈衝休止時間來減少單位時間能量的輸入，以避免輸入過多
的能量使得擴孔量增加。另外也可以利用脈衝的休止時間來增加微孔內電解液的循環效果，
以期縮小入口擴孔量與提升加工速度。 
輸入電壓改為脈衝型態的輸入能量之後，其目的是為了要減少單位時間能量的輸入以減
少擴孔量，因此調整其脈衝休止時間，也就是改變其Toff。同時也利用脈衝休止時間再次提
升微孔內電解液的循環效果，提昇加工速度。 
結合陽離子型界面活性劑CTAB與扁平電極，在不同脈衝休止時間（Toff）下，探討其入
口擴孔與加工時間的改善。實驗參數，電解液濃度為5M，界面活性劑添加濃度為陽離子型界
<<第 6頁，共 16 頁>>
 六 結論 
本論文研究重點主要在於研究電極幾何外型、界面活性劑與輸入能量對於微孔成形精度
的影響，經一系列的實驗結果分析，可歸納下列結論： 
1.採用圓柱電極加工之入口孔徑，在更改幾何形狀為扁平電極之後，因放電熱影響區的
減少，入口孔徑可大幅度降低，但加工時間會增加。 
2.在電解液中添加界面活性劑，確立界面活性劑最佳濃度之後，使用扁平電極進行加工，
入口孔徑以及加工時間皆有改善，效果相較僅使用扁平電極時更佳。 
3.實驗中添加界面活性劑再結合脈衝能量輸入型態，確立脈衝供給時間（Ton）：脈衝休
止時間(Toff) 最佳參數為 2 ms : 1 ms，可獲得最佳之入口孔徑改善率與加工時間改善
率。 
 
七 參考文獻 
1. R. Wüthrich and V. Fasio, Machining of non-conducting materials using electrochemical 
discharge phenomenon ---- an overview, International Journal of Machine Tool & 
Manufacture,45 (2005) 1095-1108. 
2. H. Kurafuji and K. Suda, Electrical discharge drilling of glass, Annals of the CIRP, 16 (1968) 
415–419. 
3. I. Basak and A. Ghosh, Mechanism of spark generation during electrochemical discharge 
machining: a theoretical model and experimental verification, Journal of Material Processing 
Technology, 62 (1996) 46-53. 
4. I. Basak and A. Ghosh, Mechanism of material removal in electrochemical discharge machining: 
a theoretical model and experimental verification, Journal of Material Processing 
Technology ,71(1997) 350-359. 
5. V. K. Jain, P. M. Dixit, and P. M. Pandey, On the Analysis of Electro Chemical Spark Machining 
Process, International Journal of Machine Tools & Manufacture, 39 (1999)165-186. 
6. B. Bhattacharyya, B. N. Doloi, and S. K. Sorkhel, Experimantal analysis on the electrochemical 
conference on precision engineering, ICPE, Taipei, Taiwan, (1997)715-720. 
7. C. T. Yan, S. S. Ho, and B. H. Yan, Micro hole machining of borosilicate glass trough     
electrochemical discharge machining (ECDM), Key Engineering Materials, 196 (2001) 
149–166. 
8. V. Fascio, R. Wüthrich, and H. Bleular, Spark assisted chemical engraving in the light of 
electrochemistry, Electrochimica Acta, 49(2004)3997-4003. 
9. V. K. Jain, P. S. Rao, S. K. Chowdhury, and K. O. Rajurkar, Experimental investigations into wire 
electrochemical spark machining(TW-ECSM), Trans. ASME Journal of Engineering of Industry, 
113 (1991) 75. 
10. B. Bhattacharyya, B. N. Doloi and S. K. Sorkhel, Experimental investigations into 
electrochemical discharge machining(ECDM) of non-conductive ceramic materials, Journal of 
Materials Processing Technology, 95 (1999) 145-154. 
11. V. K. Jain, S. K. Choudhury and K. M. Ramesh, On the machining of alumina and glass, 
International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture, 42 (2002) 1269-1267. 
12. H. Langen, R. Wüthrich, V. Fascio and D. Viquerat, Study of spark assisted chemical 
engraving-process technology date, Proceeding of International Conference of the European 
Society for Precision Engineering and Nanotechnology(EUSPEN) Einhoven, (2002)265. 
13. 趙承琛 著，“界面科學基礎’’，復文書局 
<<第 8頁，共 16 頁>>
IOP PUBLISHING JOURNAL OF MICROMECHANICS AND MICROENGINEERING
J. Micromech. Microeng. 17 (2007) 960–966 doi:10.1088/0960-1317/17/5/016
3D microstructuring of Pyrex glass using
the electrochemical discharge machining
process
Zhi-Ping Zheng, Wei-Hsin Cheng, Fuang-Yuan Huang
and Biing-Hwa Yan
Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Central University, Chung-Li 320, Taiwan
E-mail: bhyen@cc.ncu.edu.tw
Received 13 February 2007, in final form 15 March 2007
Published 12 April 2007
Online at stacks.iop.org/JMM/17/960
Abstract
Electrochemical discharge machining (ECDM) is demonstrated to be a
potential process for 3D microstructuring of Pyrex glass. However, the key
to widening ECDM micromilling applications lies in how to improve the
machining accuracy. To improve the machining quality of the ECDM
micromilling process, microgroove machining experiments were conducted
in this study. Three factors affecting ECDM micromilling performance—
pulse voltage, tool rotational rate and travel rate of tool—were taken up as
machining parameters to investigate their influences on machining
performance. The results indicate that optimum combinations of both pulse
voltage and tool rotational rate will realize better machining accuracy. The
feasibility of three-dimensional microstructure machining was demonstrated
by layer-by-layer ECDM micromilling machining. Complex structures were
made to demonstrate the great potential for the 3D microstructuring of Pyrex
glass of the ECDM micromilling process.
(Some figures in this article are in colour only in the electronic version)
1. Introduction
The microfabrication of Pyrex glass is one of the key
processes in micro-electro-mechanical-systems (MEMS) and
other modern industries because of its particular properties
such as transparency, chemical resistance, biocompatibility
and easy bonding with silicon wafers. A number of
applications of Pyrex glass can be mentioned, such as
microstructure micro-accelerometers, micro-reactors, micro-
flow sensors and micro-pumps. However, it is difficult to
fabricate complex structures with a high aspect ratio by using
mechanical micromachining methods due to the hard and
brittle properties of glass. Some non-traditional methods
have been tried to fabricate microholes, microgrooves and
microstructures in Pyrex glass. The laser beam machining [1]
is a possible choice, but its performance and cost problems so
far are still not so satisfactory. Chemical etching technologies
(like HF etching) are extremely slow in material removal
rate (MRR), but provide excellent machining surface quality,
whereas mechanical machining (abrasive jet [2] or ultrasonic
machining [3]) gives a poor machining surface quality at high
MRR.
A possible answer is electrochemical discharge machining
(ECDM) which has been proposed to overcome such
materials’ machining requirements [4]. Other terminologies
are used in the literatures, such as electrochemical arc
machining [5], spark-assisted chemical engraving (SACE)
[6] and electrochemical spark machining (ECSM) [7].
In the ECDM process, the workpiece, tool electrode
(cathode) and auxiliary electrode (anode) are immersed in an
electrolyte solution (typically, sodium hydroxide or potassium
hydroxide). The tool electrode is dipped a few millimeters into
the electrolyte. The auxiliary electrode is far away from the
tool electrode and has a larger surface than the tool electrode.
A dc power source is applied between the tool electrode and
auxiliary electrode. When the applied voltage is higher than
the critical voltage, which depends on the tool geometric shape
and concentration of the used electrolyte, the generation rate
of H2 bubbles will be higher than the bubbles floating to the
liquid surface so that they coalesce in a bubble film isolating
0960-1317/07/050960+07$30.00 © 2007 IOP Publishing Ltd Printed in the UK 960
<<第 10頁，共 16 頁>>
Z-P Zheng et al
various sub-systems, including (a) the machining chamber,
(b) the tool holding and rotation unit, (c) the digital indicator,
(d ) the gravity feeding device for the workpiece and (e) the
programmable dc power supply.
A chamber of 90 × 70 × 50 mm3 in size was made of
acrylic and was fixed on the guide block. The workpiece
was placed on an acrylic base holder, which was fixed in
the chamber. The workpiece was fed to reach and then
kept on the desired level by the gravity feeding device. The
machining head with the fixed tool can be positioned relatively
to the workpiece by the XYZ stage. A digital indicator was
used for the check of touches of the tool and the workpiece.
The chamber was filled with an electrolyte to the desired
level, which was about 2 mm above the top surface of the
workpiece. A programmable power supply (0–80 V, 10 A) was
employed to provide the machining voltage between the tool
and auxiliary electrode. To prevent tool deformations during
machining, tungsten carbide was used as the tool material.
The auxiliary electrode was made of graphite and was larger
than the cathode tool. The Pyrex glass of 500 µm thickness
adopted as the workpiece material is composed mainly of SiO2
(83%), B2O3 (10%) and Al2O3 (3%).
2.2. Machining procedures
A tungsten carbide rod of 500 µm diameter was machined
to the required 200 µm diameter and used as the tool for the
ECDM milling microgroove on the Pyrex glass. During the
ECDM process, the applied pulse voltage (40 V) was provided
by a programmable power supply. The electrolyte in the
ECDM was 27.5% (w/v, 5 M) KOH at room temperature. To
investigate the machining performance of the ECDM milling,
groove machining experiments were conducted using the same
machining path (3 mm) and working depth (50 µm). When
performing ECDM milling, an optimal setting of various
machining parameters is necessary. The pulse voltage, tool
rotational rate and travel rate were selected as machining
parameters. In order to evaluate the machining performance,
the top width of groove and machining depth were chosen as
parameters. The sidewall angle was also used to compare
the variation of machining precision. The values of the
groove width and machining depth are the mean values of
ten experiments for each case. The real shape and surface
status of the milled microgroove shown in the following were
observed by the SEM system.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Effect of the rectangular pulse voltage
In order to obtain a high quality of microgroove, it is important
to control the machining depth and width of groove. In the
previous literatures [10, 25], the machining qualities were
demonstrated depending on the applied voltage and working
distance (in this paper, it called the working depth). In their
cases, a dc voltage is used and the thermal energy of discharge
is continuous during the ECDM procedure. Therefore, it is
difficult to obtain a precise milling structure. Figures 2(a) and
(b) show the result of a machined microgroove at a dc voltage
of 40 V for a working depth of 50 µm. The used microtool,
a cylinder with a 200 µm diameter, was controlled to be
aconstant travel rate of 100 µm min−1 with a tool rotational
rate of 200 rpm. It is clearly seen that serious taper occurs and
the taper angle is around 45◦.
ECDM commonly uses rectified dc voltages as the applied
voltage. With such voltage, the over-cut phenomenon seems
unavoidable because the thermal energy of discharge is
continuous. A pulse voltage is thought to be possible to
overcome this shortage because it provides cooling during
pulse-off time to reduce the thermal heating zone. Recently,
the usage of rectangular pulse voltage to improve the precision
of microdrilling has been demonstrated [22, 23]. For further
investigation of the pulse voltage in improving the machining
precision, this study utilizes the pulse voltage to manufacture
complex microstructures. A fixed pulse-on time (Ton) with
a different pulse-off time (Toff) was used during the ECDM
process. In the previous study, the mean time to build up
the gas film is measured to be around 0.35 ms when various
values of pulse-on time, ranging from 1 ms to 5 ms, were
used. On the other hand, it is well known [22] that the
material removal rate decreases as the voltage pulse frequency
increases. Accordingly, a pulse-on time of 2 ms was chosen
in this study in consideration of the stability of machining
performance. Various values of the pulse-off time (Toff),
ranging from 0.5 ms to 8 ms, were used to change the cooling
effect so as to investigate its influences on the groove width and
machining depth. Figure 3 shows that the groove width and
depth decrease as Toff rises. The major reason is that longer
Toff periods result in a reduced number of Ton periods over
the same track length at the same travel rate. It is also noted
that although the discharge energy is high enough for causing
machining performance as Toff is raised beyond 4 ms, the
material removal rate becomes too low. Therefore, the tool
is often broken by contact with the workpiece during the
milling process. In this paper, a 40 V rectangular pulse voltage
with both Ton and Toff being 2 ms was chosen, considering the
stability of machining performance and efficiency. The result
under this machining condition was shown in figures 2(c) and
(d ) which indicate that the deviation of shape is dramatically
improved in comparison with figures 2(a) and (b). The taper
angle of sidewall is decreased from 45 to 25◦. Although the
rectangular pulse voltage considerably improved the shape
quality, it was found that there is still a certain degree of
deviation in the groove dimension.
3.2. Effect of the tool rotational rate
In the ECDM drilling procedure, the rotation of the machining
tool is also one of the important factors that influence
machining quality [11, 20]. It can not only avoid the discharge
focused on the same point, but also result in a greater quantity
of fresh electrolyte available in the machining zone. The
rotational rate of the tool is studied to further improve the
machining qualities presented in section 3.1. To examine
the effect of different rotational rates on the machining
quality in the ECDM micromilling process, experiments were
conducted with the rotational rate of the tool varying from
200 to 2000 rpm. It is obvious from figure 4 that the groove
width decreases as the rotational rate increases. The reason
is that the gas film thickness becomes thinner and more
homogeneous with increasing tool rotation. In the previous
962
<<第 12頁，共 16 頁>>
Z-P Zheng et al
(a)
(b)
Figure 5. Micrographs of the microgroove machined with a tool
rotational rate of 1500 rpm and 40 V rectangular pulse voltage
(Ton:Toff = 2 ms:2 ms).
increasing the rotational rate of tool can effectively decrease
the roughness of the machining surface.
3.3. Influence of the travel rate of the tool
Because the Pyrex glass is an electrical nonconducting
material, the feeding of the tool cannot be controlled as in
the EDM process through the dependence of the gap voltage
between electrodes. In this study, the tool motion in the
XY plane is controlled by the XY stage during the ECDM
micromilling process. By using this mechanism, the microtool
electrode might contact with the workpiece and then be broken
as the tool travel rate is higher than the material removal
rate. For investigating the influence of the travel rate of the
tool electrode on the machining performance and the upper
limit of the travel rate during the ECDM milling process,
experiments were conducted with the travel rate ranging from
100 to 4000 µm min−1. Figure 6 shows the results of the
machined groove width and machining depth. In [28], the
tool was positioned above the workpiece surface, which is
different from the present condition. For the present study,
it is necessary to consider the machining performance on the
sidewall of the tool. As the tool does not stay at the same place,
an increasing travel rate results in a decrease of the material
Figure 6. Effect of tool travel rate on groove width and machining
depth.
removal. Hence, it is obviously seen from figure 6 that the
machining depth and groove width decrease as the travel rate
increases. However, when the machining depth is too small,
the contaminants (i.e. bubbles, debris) become more difficult
to remove from the gap between the tool end and bottom face of
the groove. Thus, the presence of contaminant concentration
results in an instability of the discharge phenomenon at the tool
end. As a consequence, the discharge energy is concentrated
at the tool sidewall. This might be the possible reason why
the groove width increases as the travel rate increases upon
1000 µm min−1.
Figure 7 shows the machining results with the travel
rates of 1000, 3000 and 4000 µm min−1. As shown in this
figure, in contrast to the groove with travel rates 1000 and
3000 µm min−1 (figures 7(a) and (b)), figure 7(c) exhibits an
irregular groove pattern and worse machining surface. It is
also noted from our experiments that the groove width and
the machining depth undergo serious variation when the tool
travel rate is above 3000 µm min−1. These findings suggest
an upper limit of 3000 µm min−1 travel rate.
4. Three-dimensional machining
4.1. Layer-by-layer machining
The above discussion reveals a potential application of
ECDM micromilling in fabrications of 3D microstructure by
controlling the tool path. However, it was difficult to obtain
a good groove by machining with the deeper working depth
because it was difficult to flush the electrolyte into the groove.
To machine a deeper groove, a sequence of layer-by-layer
machining with a small working depth is used here to take
advantage of the flushing. The groove is machined with a
working depth of 50 µm for etch layer until the target depth
is achieved. The tool travels one stroke for every layer with a
travel rate of 1000 µm min−1. Figure 8 shows the results of the
layer-by-layer machining for various target depths of 100, 200
and 350 µm. The experimental results reveal that at all target
depths, the machining depth was 15–20 µm deeper than the
target depth. It is also noted from figure 8 that the target depth
did not show a conspicuous variation in groove width. The
machining examples display that the layer-by-layer method is
effective for 3D micromachining.
964
<<第 14頁，共 16 頁>>
