 摘要 
We develop a nearly white light emitting device by integrating blue/green emission from a 
GaN based LED with red emission from a porous SiO2 layer.  The porous SiO2 layer was 
fabricated by a novel process procedure to create Si nanocrystals on top of the n-type GaN layer.  
Red light is generated from the metal-oxide-semiconductor (Ni/Au–SiO2 oxide-n-type GaN) 
structure due to the electron-hole recombination in the Si nanocrystals.  The device shows a 
blue light emission at a low biased voltage and nearly white light emission (green and red colors) 
at a bias voltage between 14V and 16V.  Our results show the potential of applying such an 
integrated structure to white light illumination. 
 
 
Keywords: Light emitting diodes, SiO2 porous layer, Si-nanocrystal, white light 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 patterned SiO2 layer was deposited on top of the GaN n-type layer by PECVD with an initial 
thickness of 340nm.  We then wet-etched the SiO2 layer by buffer oxide etcher (BOE, NH4F: 
HF=6:1) to thin down the SiO2 layer.  In the subsequent step, the sample was dry etched by 
inductively coupled plasma reactive ion etching (ICP-RIE) to create porous profile on SiO2 layer.  
We used Ar, SiCl4 and Cl4 as etching gases with a flow rate 20sccm, 1sccm and 15sccm, 
respectively.  The SiO2 layer thickness was optimized by considering both the generated output 
optical power from the SiO2 layer (nc-Si) and the operating voltage.  Typically, a thicker SiO2 
layer is preferred for luminescence which, however, requires a higher biased voltage.  In our 
case, the optimum thickness of the porous SiO2 layer is around 200nm.  The atomic force 
microscopic (AFM) surface profile of the porous SiO2 layer grown on top of the n-type GaN 
layer is shown in Fig. 1.  The lateral diameter of nc-Si is approximately 500nm.  In the next 
step, Ni/Au metal layers were evaporated as the p-type electrode and were alloyed to obtain 
optimized ohmic contact condition.  We then coated Ti/Au directly on top of the porous SiO2 
layer as the n-type contact.  The Ti/Au - SiO2 – GaN layer combination forms a MOS structure 
(see Fig. 2) and red emission can be observed after a 750°C annealing in our experiment.  The 
high temperature annealing (＞700°C) deactivates the neutral oxygen vacancies defect 
(O≡Si−Si≡O) in the porous SiO2 layer, and meanwhile generates nc-Si [13].  Electron-hole 
recombination can occur in the porous SiO2 layer (nc-Si). 
 
結果與討論 
  The EL spectra of our samples were taken at various bias voltages (see Fig. 3(a)) at room 
temperature.  At a low bias voltage, electrons from the n-type electrode tunnel through the 
porous SiO2 layer and recombine with holes in the GaN based active layer to generate blue 
emission.  Therefore, the blue emission is dominated at low bias voltages.   The peak 
wavelength is around 487.6nm when biased at 14V.  As we increase the applied voltage to 15V, 
red emission is observed as the carrier recombination in the MOS structure starts to occur.  It is 
also noted that the relative intensity of the blue emission decreases as the applied voltage 
increases, which is attributed to the fact that more and more carriers are recombined in the MOS 
region when the bias voltage increases from 14V to 15V.  The blue emission is further 
decreased as the applied voltage is increased to 16 V.  The peak wavelength of the GaN based 
LED is shifted to 496.4nm due to quantum confinement stark effect.  The relative intensities of 
wavelength 496.4 nm and 828.6 nm have become comparable at the bias voltage 16V.  Fig. 3(b) 
shows the CIE 1931 chromaticity diagram with corresponding light emitting colors at different 
bias voltages.  With the increase of bias voltages, the bluish color (x=0.3002, y=0.3190) at 14V 
turns to a nearly white color (x=0.3302, 0.3338) at 16V. 
We further compare the current-voltage (I-V) characteristic of the MOS- LED structure with that 
of the conventional LED sample (the one without any SiO2 layer coated).  As shown in Fig. 4, 
the I-V curve of the conventional LED shows a diode behavior (dash line), while that of the 
MOS-LED structure acts like a normal LED in series with a resistor when the bias voltage is 
below 13.7V.  Since carriers from the n-type electrode of the MOS-LED structure have to to 
tunnel through the thin porous SiO2 layer, the effective current under the same bias voltage of 
the MOS-LED structure is smaller than that of the conventional LED structure.  When the bias 
voltage is above 13.7V (the threshold voltage of the MOS device), the device is turned on and 
electrons from the n-type electrode start to recombine with holes in the nc-Si.  A negative 
resistance is observed at bias voltages above 13.7 V, indicating the generation of red light.  The 
negative resistance in Fig. 4 corresponds to the onset of red light emission in Fig. 3 and 
meanwhile indicates the decrease of blue intensity.  The MOS structure breaks down (blows up) 
at bias voltages beyond 16V, which is due to large numbers of electrons tunneling through the 
porous SiO2 layer. 
  We develop a novel integrated white light emitting device.  By integrating the nc-Si MOS 
with the GaN based LED structures, i.e., by depositing a porous SiO2 layer on top of the GaN 
based LED, nearly white light emission with dual spectrum peaks at 496.4 nm and 828.6nm were 
 Fig. 2 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
(b) 
 
 
Fig. 3 
 
 [10] Gong-Ru Lin, Chun-Jung Lin, Chi-Kuan Lin, Li-Jen Chou, Yu-Lun Chueh, “Oxygen defect 
and Si nanocrystal dependent white-light and near-infrared electroluminescence of Si-implanted 
and plasma-enhanced chemical-vapor deposition-grown Si-rich SiO2,” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 97, p 
094306-094306-8, Apr. 2005. 
[11] G. Franzò, A. Irrera, E. C. Moreira, M. Miritello, F. Iacona, D. Sanfilippo, G. Di Stefano, P. 
G. Fallica, F. Priolo, “Electroluminescence of silicon nanocrystals in MOS structures,” Appl. 
Phys. A: Mater. Sci. Process., vol.74, no. 1, p 1-5, Jan. 2002. 
[12] J. Valenta, N. Lalic, J. Linnros, “Electroluminescence microscopy and spectroscopy of 
silicon nanocrystals in thin SiO2 layers,” Optical Materials, vol. 17, no. 1-2, p 45-50, June 2001. 
[13] J. H. Son, T. G. Kim, S. W. Shin, H. B. Kim, W. S. Lee, S. Im, J. H. Song, C. N. Whang, K. 
H. Chae, “Blue and red luminescence from Si ion-irradiated SiO2/Si/ SiO2 layers,” Optical 
Materials, vol. 17, no. 1-2, p 125-129, June 2001. 
