2outcomes have been experimentally observed
[1]. Considering head-on collision of two liquid
interfaces with small impact inertia, it is
expectable that the slowly approaching objects
would eventually coalesce, due to the attraction
of intermolecular force between the same
materials. As the impact energy or droplet
deformation is increased, more gas is trapped
inside the gap between the deformed surfaces.
Consequently higher pressure is built up and
resists further approaching of the droplet; it thus
results in a bouncing regime as We is increased.
Here the adequate dimensionless parameter for
characterization is the Weber number, We =
2ℓVrel2R/, where Vrel is the relative velocity, R
the radius of the droplet, and ℓ and 
respectively the density and surface tension of
the liquid. However, if We is further increased,
the repulsive pressure inside the gap is
overwhelmed by stronger impact inertia and the
surfaces will merge again. With even higher We,
the merged droplet has to separate in order to
balance the excess energy which cannot be
digested in a single droplet merely by ensuing
viscous loss during the oscillation. Depending
on the relative magnitudes of impact inertia,
surface tension, and viscous dissipation, satellite
or secondary droplets can be further created.
Previous studies were mostly focused on
the regimes of low or moderate Weber numbers
[1-4]. The characteristics at high We that may
lead to phenomena similar with splashing in
droplet/surface collision and its transition
mechanisms beyond the regime of total
absorption, which occurs when the impaction is
sufficiently harsh [5-8] however have not been
studied in detail while certain qualitative
outcomes have been reported in [9]. To further
understand the interaction between two droplets,
therefore, we proposed to study the regimes at
higher We’s which go beyond the general range,
say, larger than 1000, in addition to a
systematical investigation for the transition
boundaries as We is increased from O(10).
Furthermore, the effects of various surface
tensions by addition of different surfactants to
water were studied to identify the accuracy of a
model for the transition between coalescence
and separation [1].
To achieve the test condition of high-speed
impact, we have developed a droplet generating
method that is different from conventional
approaches adopting such as vibration of
piezoelectric diaphragms [2,3] or creation of
multiple droplets due to Rayleigh instability
either via wave modulation [10,11] or naturally
during free dripping [6,7], by which the droplet
speed is generally on the order of 1 m/s. By
means of the present cutting technique via a
high-speed water jet, we can create moderately
stable droplets associated with velocity
nominally as high as 23 m/s, hence leading to a
Weber number up to 5200. This technique,
nevertheless, encounters difficulties that impede
further increase of Weber number, due to
inherent oscillation of the cut droplets and
aerodynamic deceleration of viscous force of
and interaction with the surrounding fluid. The
scenario observed herein provides also a
reference for those adopting electronic valves
for controlling breaking of a liquid jet.
2. Experimental setup
A water jet with adjustable speed was
generated by the thrust of a gas cylinder driven
by a compressor, which was equipped with a
movable piston linked to two liquid cylinders, as
sketched in Fig. 1. The measurement of the
movement was conducted by Mitutoyo’s DRO
(Digital Readout) that integrated the AT100
Series Linear Scales with the K Series dedicated
digital counters, which offered accurate
detection and display of axial displacements of
the pistons (up to 0.001 mm) that were used as
indications of the flow rate and hence jet speed.
Due to compression, the liquid within two
smaller cylinders downstream was injected out.
The jet, passing through filters and eventually
squeezed out of a nozzle with given exit
diameter of 0.45 mm, was continuously
discharged into a chamber (Fig. 1) that was
made of Plexiglas walls and used to isolate the
influence of outside air. Depending on the
upstream pressure controlled by a valve, the
speed of the jet was able to go beyond 50 m/s
(the full scale of pressurization was 10 atm
gauge pressure while 3 atm was about to
accelerate the liquid to 50 m/s at the exit of the
nozzle).
The diameter of the jet did not change much,
which was about the size of the nozzle, before
impinging a rotating disk in a distance of 4 cm.
4to balance additional energy that cannot be
maintained in the single mass formed after the
expanding disk contracts. It is thus designated as
“fingering and separation”as shown in Fig. 4e.
If We is more raised, the fingers at the
circumference of the expanding disk would
break, leading to scattering of multiple
secondary droplets, as indicated by“breakup”in
Fig. 4f. Secondary droplets will be continuously
generated as the flat disk is expanding and then
contracting. Eventually when the disk is small
enough, multiple droplets would be formed due
to shattering of the thin film as well as the
shedding droplets emerged from the
circumference, as can be seen from the later
evolution. It is noted that the radius when the
fingers are broken into secondary droplets
increases first with higher We and then
decreases because the phase of its occurrence is
advanced with increased We. That is, break-up
of the fingering is first created when the disk is
contracting whereby the outer liquid segments
still have somewhat outward momentum such
that they are pinched off by the pulling of the
contracting disk. If We becomes larger, however,
the outward momentum of scattered fingers is
magnified; as a consequence the phase for
breaking up becomes earlier and hence the
radius is larger. Enlarged with increased We,
breakup will happen when the expanding disk
develops to its maximum radius before
contraction. After that, the radius becomes
smaller with higher We. An intriguing
phenomenon was observed at a critical We
whence breaking of circumferential fingers
occurs immediately when a sheet is ejected from
the waist of merged droplets right after the
impact, as shown in Fig. 4g. This terrific event
can be clearly identified if the view is roomed in
(not shown for copyright concern), whereby
lens of magnification was equipped with the
high-speed camera. The sequential evolution
shows that a thin disk with smooth rim expands
outward, similar to a far view of Saturn, while
secondary droplets are scattered out if the radius
is large enough. With a larger We, however, the
fracture is created almost immediately after the
impact whereby a sheet is squeezed out. New
droplets are continuously created when the disk
is expanding, due to breakup of outer fingers.
We thus define the regime as “splattering”.
When We is further increased, the scenario is
more or less the same and no particular
transition can be identified, as shown in Fig. 4h.
It would be of interest to compare the results
to the collision of a droplet upon a dry surface.
In that situation, when We is increased, the
outcome changes from spreading of a flattened
disk, to fingering of the circumference, and to
breakup of secondary droplets from the rim. The
mechanisms have been well known to the
researchers [17]. However, the quantitative
boundaries of these transitions are complicated
by the properties of the solid surface such as the
material and roughness. Therefore the transition
boundary of fingering to breakup could be
varied substantially when the roughness is
different. Such complications would be
removed if the surface is not ever present in the
impact geometry. The symmetrical collision
between two identical droplets as studied herein
thus provides an ideal paradigm for
investigating the fundamental structure of the
event. Further elucidation shall be pursued soon.
4. Conclusions
A technique for generation of high-speed
droplets, nominally up to 23 m/s, has been
developed and tested. Different from
conventional approaches in terms of vibration of
piezoelectric diaphragms or creation of multiple
droplets due to the Rayleigh instability either via
wave modulation or naturally during free
dripping, by which the produced droplet speed
is typically on the order of 1 m/s, the
methodology is based on the cutting of a
high-speed jet, which can be easily generated by
the procession of a piston equipped on a gas
cylinder. While the jet speed can be accelerated
to higher than 50 m/s, the maximum Weber
number is limited by the formation of spherical
droplets dominated by the oscillation that is
manifested with large droplets (D 1 mm), and
the drag force that exerts larger retardation for
smaller droplets. So far the highest Weber
number we have obtained for a moderately
stable droplet is about 5200, which was yielded
by a cut length of the jet close to that associated
with maximum growth rate of Rayleigh
instability.
We have further investigated the collision
between two droplets and found occurrence of
61：Compressor 2：Pressure controlling valve 3：Gas cylinder
4：Liquid cylinders 5：Water tank 6：Nozzle
7：Rotating disk with cutting edge 8：Programmable Motor
9：Piezoelectric droplet generator 10：Power Supply 11：High-speed camera
12：Light source 13：Non-return valve 14：Shunt
15：Linkage and piston 16：Linear scale and digital counter 17：Digital readout
Fig. 1 Schematic diagram of the experiment setup
Fig. 2 The pictures of a jet cut by a disk rotating at 2900 rpm, captured by a high-speed camera at the
locations immediately below the disk (left column), 1.5 cm lower (central column), and 3.0 cm lower
(right column). The cut length is about 4 a. The mass cut by the disk is enclosed by a rectangle and a
length bar is included to indicate the scale of 1 mm.
1
m
m
Cut piece
Entailed
film
8(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
