英文關鍵詞： Modular robot, Rotational robot, Motion planning, 
WiFi wireless network 
 
2 
市的機器人組合成各種形式應用於不同的場合，是一個較經濟的方式，而非針對不同的應用場合，
建置不同的機器人作為因應。探討建構適用於多群組動態系統的理論基礎，可以從交通運輸、資
訊網路、以及多群組生物系統等系統的研究成果中學習其經驗。 
所以針對多群組機器人系統的課題研究上，首先引進圖論的基礎，以進行其合作性運動機制
的協調與路徑規畫。針對一個開放式且動態性強的多群組控制系統而言，利用無線通訊的模式以
達到訊息交換的目的乃是唯一可行的解決方案。在通訊方面目前本計畫假設各個模組機器人皆能
接收到指令並能依據指令動作。 
 
二、 研究目的 
本計畫的主要執行目的，將針對立體旋轉式模組機器人系統在三維空間中，個別個體之運動
模式與整體系統之隊形模式進行分析設計，以期能建立於隊形變換的資料傳輸方法與路徑規畫法
則，然後，再依據此設計架構分析其在資訊傳遞與隊形變化效能上所展現之系統特性。因此在本
計畫中，將先分析個別模組機器人在三維空間的基本運作特徵，以及各個隊形與個別單元體之間，
所需要的主要資料型態與運動需求，再根據整體系統路徑規畫之需求以定義單元體的表現形式與
可行之圖論架構。其中，此架構之設計將參考可行之隊形設計架構，定義隊形變化路徑以及單元
體的表示變數。最後以個別個體所需之實際運動機制及其限制配合適當的通訊機制，完成整個運
動規劃法則。並且加上實驗以驗證真實的隊形變換是否如所推導出之法則。以期望此隊形路徑規
畫法則能達到個別與群體系統間之整體系統所需求之效能。 
 
三、 文獻探討 
在二維的群體運動中，鳥群於飛行過程中的隊形維持 [Seiler et al., 2002] ，就是一項自
然界中的生物群體系統亦為路徑規劃動態系統之重要學習對象，另外螞蟻在搬運物品上所展現出
來群體互助性行為 [Kube & Bonabeau, 2000] 也是如此；而魚群於水中成群行動以避免被獵食的
運動方式 [Tu, 1996]則是三維群體運動的一個生物界實例。探討這類生物群體系統與多群組工程
系統相關之處，可以從觀察這些生物群體所表現出來的行為模式著手。例如：蜜蜂靠著不同的飛
行舞姿來告訴其同伴何處可以尋得食物；白蟻的築巢工作並沒有一個總指揮指導整個工作的進
4 
態系統之隊形形成機制與路徑規畫分析，亦即是從考慮動態系統中個別系統之需求，加上個體與
個體之間合作型行為達成所需之資料交換機制，以建構一套完整的動態資料互換機制與資訊傳送
路徑規畫法則，進而達到個別與群體的動作順序規劃並增進控制效能。本計畫之目標為設計出適
用於立體旋轉式模組機器人系統的動態資訊流機制與隊形形成所需之最佳路徑規畫法則，以研發
一套具整體系統之穩定暨最佳化之隊形變化之路徑規畫機制，並佐以適當之通訊機制的建立，以
期能自行決定各個模組的動作並相互協調。並完成模擬設計的雛型作為模組行進的驗證，另外完
成一組行動機器人控制群組，完成無線通訊機制之建立以作為實驗之用以驗證實效。 
另方面，通訊機制的建置將以無線網路(WN)為基礎方案。基本上，將會以 WiFi 無線網路系
統作為標準配備，以一組行動機器人車配合 IPCAM 以及 iPOD 智慧型行動通訊設備等建立 Ad-Hoc
通信網路以驗證實效；另外，也設計並實現一組無線保全巡邏機器人做為無線網路的驗證。礙於
時間與經費，本計畫在路徑規劃上將以模擬為主作為呈現，通信機制上則以實務系統驗證其效能。 
 
五、 結果與討論 
依據個別與整體系統實體架構，發展出適用於此機器人組的隊形路徑規畫法則。將立體旋轉
式模組機器人等在二維平面的路徑規規劃作為基礎，如下圖一、圖二分別表示仿蟲式與仿蛇式的
模組機器人雛型規畫的方向限制與及路徑移動的模擬示意圖。並根據其群體行為之動態系統需
求，並配合個別個體在三維空間之動態系統與實際系統之運動限制，發展個別之動態系統模組建
構規範與實驗模組軟體，以維持整體系統之穩定性與達到個體系統間之合作性整體目標。 
 
(a)仿蟲式模組(未伸展)                              (b)仿蟲式模組(伸展) 
 
(c)仿蟲式模組動作示意圖 
6 
 
 
圖四、室內巡邏機器人實驗環境實體圖 
 
圖五、iOS 為基礎之偵測機器人控制示意圖 
 
在本計畫支援下，除完成前述之國際期刊與會議論文外，另外也完成了篇國際會議論文 [Lee, 
et al., 2011] ，兩篇國內會議論文 [李後燦 等, 2011, 2012]，並前往日本東京早稻田大學親自報
告會議論文。惟受限於研究時程與經費限制，實務上的立體機器人模組仍無法完成(需費甚鉅)，
以致於路徑規畫部份仍僅於模擬結果呈現，以模擬程式所展現的結果，較難真正找出實際應用時
的盲點，予以改進。研究者將朝此方向繼續努力，期能為學界或是產業界做出一些貢獻。 
 
參考文獻 
 
1. D. B. West, Introduction to Graph Theory, 2ed., Prentice Hall, 2001. 
2. J. A. Fax, Optimal and Cooperative Control of Vehicle Formation, Ph.D. 
Dissertation, CalTech, 2002. 
3. M.-C. Shiu, Lee, H.-T., et, “Modular Design of Reconfigurable Electromagnetic 
Robot,＂ Accepted to publish on Advanced Robotics, No.7, Vol.24, 2010. (SCI) 
4. M.-C. Shiu, Lee, H.-T., et, “Design of 2D Modular Robots Based on Magnetic Force 
8 
Motor,＂International Journal of Power Electronics, Vol.3, No.2, 2011. 
24. Lee, H.-T., "Speed Control with Maximum Transfer Property of Induction Motor Based 
on I/O Linearization,＂  International Journal of Power Electronics,Vol.2, 
No.1,2010. 
25. Lee, H.-T.,et al., "Wireless Indoor Surveillance Robot," Journal of Robotics, 2011. 
(NSC 100-2221-E-147-001-) 
26. Lee, H.-T.,et al., "Mobile Detecting Robot with IPCam Feedback ," Proc. SICE Annual 
Conference 2012, Akida, Japan, 2012. (NSC 100-2221-E-147-001-) 
27. Lee, H.-T.,et al.,"Wireless Indoor Surveillance Robot," Proc. SICE Annual 
Conference 2011, Tokyo, Japan, 2011. (NSC 100-2221-E-147-001-) 
28. Lee, H.-T.,et al., “Zigbee 結合 RFID 於幼稚園學童管理之應用,＂TANET 2011 臺灣
網際網路研討會, 2011. (NSC 100-2221-E-147-001-) 
29. Lee, H.-T.,et al., "基於無線感測網路之幼兒安全管理系統,＂ IETAC2012 資訊教育與
科技應用研討會, 2012. (NSC 100-2221-E-147-001-) 獲選佳作論文。 
 2
二、與會心得 
五天的會議讓本人了解到在智慧型系統及控制領域，日本人的成就，以及世界上各國在這方面的研究
現況，趁機聽了多場論文發表，收穫許多。也更加了解以本人任教系所的發展方向及研究能量，應該
繼續朝向應用整合，資訊科技實務發展，結合各個老師專長，從事對學校學生最有益處的研究，並引
進學生一起完成，如同此次的論文便是帶領學生一起完成的，對學生而言，有此成果將會增強他們的
自信心，對技職教育的學生而言，這更是一個成功的軟硬體結合應用，更是解決問題的完整訓練，對
今年畢業的學生而言，也有助於就業求職，一舉數得。  
此去東京早稻田大學除了聆聽多位 Keynote speakers 的演說關於 BioTech、Unmanned Robot Tech
與資訊系統的結合發展外。也聽了不同場次的論文發表。收穫良多。本人於報到處之照片如圖二(後
為早大理工學部報到櫃檯)。 
圖二 
早稻田大學(Waseda University)共有約三個校區(Campus)分布於整個早稻田區域所構成。我參加的
會議在西早稻田校區(Nishi-Waseda)舉行，為理工學部如下圖三。環境清幽，教室區塊大約十幾間教
室，配有良善的公共設施，如 : 廚房、儲物間、教室相當大，約莫 100 來個座位左右。教室出入口
為講台兩邊，可直接看見進出學生，座位採扇形配置，老師可直接看見學生反應，學生聽課可以完全
看見老師，值得參考。 
圖三 
在早稻田的會議中，舉目所及都是建物上提醒要注意安全或是節能的標語，非常醒目。公佈欄上亦有
Wireless Indoor Surveillance Robot 
 
Hou-Tsan Lee, Wei-Chuan Lin, Ching-Hsiang Huang, Yu-Jhih Huang 
 
Department of Information Technology, TakMing University of Science and Technology 
houtsan@takming.edu.tw 
 
Abstract:  
Self-propelled patrolling vehicle can patrol periodically in the designed area as a surveillance robot to ensure the safety 
like men do. The proposed robot based on the self-propelled vehicle not only can save manpower but also ensure the 
operation of surveillance being well performed. Due to the limitation of manpower and the fixed camera positions, 
using surveillance is different from the traditional patrolling system. The paper proposes a self-propelled patrolling 
vehicle which can move automatically to a wider range and record the monitored image within a predefined patrolling 
route to improve the performance of the traditional patrolling system. Besides, the surveillance robot can be connected 
to the mobile device or website on Internet at anytime and anywhere. Furthermore, the vehicle can be remote controlled 
by the instruction sent form the server or Smartphone to move to the position to get the indoor image we want. On the 
other hand, the position of self-propelled vehicles can be detected by the RFID readers mounted on the wall of the 
patrolling path as a feedback. The IP-CAM is also mounted on the proposed robot to record the images and transmit 
them back to the server via WiFi system for face tracking and discriminating analysis. As an alarm report, the proposed 
surveillance would use the build-in MSN module to notice users of the predefined events when happened. Experimental 
results are given in the paper to validate its performance. 
 
Keywords: Surveillance Robot、Wireless IPCAM、RFID reader、face detection 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
As the incidents of theft grew more frequent, the 
applications of security systems are more popular than 
ever to prevent the damages caused by theft whether at 
home or working places. The traditional security system 
gives some protection via fixed cameras but still has 
some dead zone cannot be monitored. Therefore, this 
paper proposes mobile security monitoring system to 
improve the security of the traditional system. The 
comparison diagram between the proposed and 
traditional security system is shown in Fig. 1. A 
self-propelled patrolling vehicle acts as a security 
patroller in the security system, which can monitor not 
only the fixed area but also those dead zones of the 
traditional fixed surveillance system. The remote 
monitoring capabilities can also be enhanced by using 
the wireless network to control the surveillance robot. 
Besides, the face detection system is also adopted to 
record and recognize the intruders. [1][2][3] No matter 
where the user is, he can monitor the indoor status by 
using network.  
C
攝影機
 
Fig. 1. The traditional and proposed security system 
 
OpenCV is an open source, and it can be used in 
most of the platforms such as the operating system of 
Linux and Windows. [4] OpenCV is developed by the 
Intel Corporation for image processing and it provides 
interface to create pictures by C programming language, 
etc.. It can be used to handle object tracking, face 
recognition, texture analysis, and the dynamic image 
processing of webcam. [5] In this paper, OpenCV 
technology is used for face detection. RFID system 
identifies the object by using the radio frequency 
technology to read the information stored in the small 
IC chip attached on the object. [6][7] In this way, RFID 
system can be used to track object by processing a 
non-contact, short-range automatic identification 
technology. The RFID system is adopted in the 
proposed scheme including tags, reader, and the host 
computer to record the position of the surveillance robot. 
Tag is a data storage device; the Reader reads 
information from the Tag and sends to the host 
computer for further processing. When sensing the radio 
waves emitted by the reader, the tag produces a 
"magnetic induction" to trigger the RF transmitter 
module to send the built-in EEPROM information back 
to the reader. The reader then transmits the information 
to host computer through the RS-232, or USB interface. 
There are two kinds of RFID tags such as active and 
passive. The passive type is chosen in the proposed 
scheme. 
Adopting the proposed surveillance robot of the 
paper, the security of indoor surveillance is upgraded. 
The self-propelled vehicle will give more information 
than the traditional security system. Experimental 
results are also provided to validate the performance of 
the proposed system. 
 
SICE Annual Conference 2011
September 13-18, 2011, Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan
PR0001/11/0000-2164 ¥400 © 2011 SICE- 2164 -
Fig.5 The hardware architecture of the self-propelled 
vehicle 
 
The bottom layer of the self-propelled vehicle 
including four 3V DC motors, DFRduino RoMeo 328 
microcontroller, WiFi module, RFID tag and charger 
interface is shown in Fig. 6. When the self-propelled is 
going to run out of power, it would detect the position 
of charger and go to it automatically for charging. The 
WiFi module receives the control command from the 
server or Smartphone. The RFID tag in the 
self-propelled vehicle is used to detect its own position 
in the routing path and display the position of the 
self-propelled vehicle on the server.  
 
Fig.6 The sketch of bottom layer 
 
The first layer of the self-propelled vehicle is the 
electricity detection PCB and power supply module as 
shown in Fig. 7. The power supply module uses the 12V 
battery to provide the power for two D-LINK wireless 
IPCAM (5V 1.2A) and the DFRduino RoMeo 328 
microcontroller (12V). The electricity detection PCB is 
used to detect the battery status and shows the result by 
displaying the LED in red/green light. 
 
Fig. 7 The sketch of first layer 
 
The second layer of the self-propelled vehicle is the 
battery, PCB and two D-LINK wireless IPCAM as 
shown in Fig. 8. The regulator mounted on PCB should 
guarantee the steady output power of 12V. Therefore, 
the regulator on PCB can prevent the power from the 
charger to damage components in the self-propelled 
vehicle. 
 
 
Fig. 8 The sketch of second layer 
 
The third layer of the self-propelled vehicle is simply 
the solar panel. The realized implementation of 
self-propelled vehicle is shown as Fig. 9. 
 
 
Fig. 9 The implementation of the self-propelled vehicle 
 
4. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
The wireless IPCAM mounted on the self-propelled 
vehicle should be specified IP by login the account and 
password given by the manufacturer. When the 
self-propelled vehicle is patrolling, the image files of 
pictures would be captured and stored in the temporary 
memory of the IPCAM. The server then get the image 
files via WiFi system and show them on the display as  
below.
 
Fig. 10 Display result of local wireless IPCAM (left: 
- 2166 -
respectively. 
 
 
(a) The display on monitor 
 
 (b) The display on Smartphone 
Fig. 15 The position of the self-propelled vehicle  
 
5. CONCLUSION 
 
The proposed system is implemented by a PC server, 
a self-propelled vehicle and some small smart devices 
via wireless networks to provide the functions of 
surveillance and remote control. To summarize, there 
are some conclusion of the proposed system can be 
addressed as bellows: 
 
z The wireless IPCAM being equipped with in a 
mobile vehicle to obtain wider range of 
monitoring.  
z The warning message can be sent back to the 
security center and/or the user by MSN and/or 
Smartphone.  
z Face detection technique is adopted in the 
proposed system to identify the intruders. 
z The self-propelled vehicle can be navigated by 
MSN and/or Smartphone if necessary and 
displayed its position by RFID readers mounted 
on the wall along the patrolling route. 
 
The proposed indoor surveillance system is 
developed with some proper design described in 
previous section. With experimental results, the 
feasibility of the proposed scheme is validated. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGE 
 
This paper is sponsored by the projects of NSC 
99-2221-E-147-004- and NSC 100-2221-E-147-001- in 
Taiwan. 
 
REFERENCE 
 
[1] Chien-Yu Wang, ” Utilization Of Deformable 
Templates In Real-Time Face Tracking System”, master 
thesis, National Sun Yat-sen University, p22~39, July, 
2007. 
[2] Yao-Zhang Xie,” A Study of Real-Time Face 
Tracking with an Active Camera”, master thesis, 
National Sun Yat-sen University, p6~21, April, 2005. 
[3] Viola Paul, J. Jones. Michael, “Rapid Object 
Detection Using a Boosted Cascade of Simple 
Features”, IEEE CVPR, Vol.1, NO. 2, p511~518, Dec. 
2001. 
[4] Min Zuo Guangping Zeng Xuyan Tu, College of 
Computer and Information Engineering, Beijing 
Technology and Business University, China, “Research 
and improvement of face detection algorithm based on 
the OpenCV”, ICISE 2010, p1413, Dec. 2010  
[5] Jung-Hyun Park Kwee Bo Sim , Dept. of Electr. & 
Electron. Eng., ChungAng Univ., Seoul, “A design of 
mobile robot based on Network Camera and sound 
source localization for intelligent surveillance system”, 
ICCAS 2008, p674, Oct. 2008.Introduction to the RFID,  
http://www.cc.ntu.edu.tw/chinese/epaper/0002/2007092
0_2005.htm 
[6] Yang Xiao Yanping Zhang, Dept. of Comput. Sci., 
Univ. of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL, USA, “Surveillance 
and Tracking System with Collaboration of Robots, 
Sensor Nodes, and RFID Tags”, ICCCN 2009, p1 ,  
Aug. 2009  
[7] Basic Concept of  Android System, 
http://developer.android.com/index.html 
[8] Kyunghoon Kim Soonil Bae Kwanghak 
Huh ,Robot Bus. Group, Samsung Techwin in 
Seongnam, South Korea, “Intelligent surveillance and 
security robot systems”, IEEE ARSO 2010, p70, Oct. 
2010Android Socket[1], 
http://www.hiapk.com/bbs/thread-6210-1-1.html 
[9] Meng-Shiun Yu Horng Wu Huei-Yung Lin, Dept. 
of Electr. Eng., Nat. Chung Cheng Univ., Chiayi, 
Taiwan, “A visual surveillance system for mobile robot 
using omnidirectional and PTZ cameras”, SICE 2010, 
p37, Aug. 2010. 
[10] Gary Bradski, Adrian Kaehler, Vadim 
Pisarevsky, ”Learning-Based Computer Vision with 
Intel’s Open Source Computer Vision Library”, Intel 
Technology Journal, Vol 9,Issue 2, p119~131, 19 May 
2005. 
[11] Luo, R.C. Chou, Y.T. Liao, C.T. Lai, C.C. Tsai, 
A.C. ,Nat. Chung Cheng Univ., Min-Hsiung, “NCCU 
Security Warrior: An Intelligent Security Robot 
System”, IEEE IECON 2007, p2960, Nov. 2007. 
- 2168 -
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/08/03
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 立體旋轉式模組機器人路徑規畫與實體設計
計畫主持人: 李後燦
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-147-001- 學門領域: 智慧型機器人
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
研究發表於 Journal of Robotics，後獲得邀請擔任期刊 Guest Editor。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
