建構有未知值測試回應壓密之最佳化空間壓縮器 
“Building Optimal Space Compactor for Test-Response Compaction with Unknown Values” 
計畫編號：NSC96-2218-E-009-005 
執行期間：96年 1月 1日 至 96年 7月 31日 
主持人：趙家佐 交通大學電子工程系助理教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
由於現代設計中掃描單位數量的劇增，掃描式測
試的測試資料量以及測試時間都急劇增加。為了要在
相同數目的 ATE通訊管道下縮減測試資料量與測試時
間，研發人員近年一直很積極地在尋找新的掃入資料
壓縮 (scan-in stimulus compression) 與掃出回應壓密 
(scan-out response compaction) 的解決方法。對於掃出
回應壓密而言，最大的困難點就是處理模擬結果中掃
出回應裡的未知值。如果沒有未知值存在，時間壓密
器 (例如Multiple Input Signature Registers) 可以將一組
無限長的輸入序列壓密成一組固定長度的簽證，而且
保證會有小到可以被忽略的同名機率。然而，只要掃
出回應中有一個未知值存在，整個預期中正確電路的
簽證就會變成未知，以致錯誤電路的簽證就沒有辦法
被識別出。因此，由於它的抗未知值特性，空間壓密
器也就變成掃出回應壓密的重要解法。 
在這個計畫中，我們首先會分析時間壓密器所產
生的遮蔽效應 (包含錯誤遮蔽以及未知值遮蔽) 。第
二，我們會嘗試著理論推導出各種不同時間壓密器結
構下各類遮蔽效應發生的機率。第三，我們會將各類
遮蔽效應發生的機率跟一個直接的測試品質度量做連
結，而非像以往的研究報告中與非直接測試品質度量
做連結。最後，我們會發展一套自動設計流程，在給
定最低可接受之測試品質與可用測試資源之下，來產
生最大壓密比率的空間壓密器。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
英文摘要 
The increasing number of scan cells in modern 
designs challenges the scan-based testing on both test data 
volume and test application time. In order to reduce the 
test data volume and test application time with the same 
number of ATE channels, researchers have been actively 
pursuing new solutions to scan-in stimulus compression 
and scan-out response compaction. For scan-out response 
compaction, the greatest barrier is the presence of 
unknown values (or unknowns) among simulated scan-out 
responses. If no unknown value exists, a time compactor, 
such as MISRs (Multiple Input Signature Registers), can 
compress an infinitely long output sequence into a 
fixed-length signature and guarantee a negligible aliasing 
probability. However, even one unknown in the scan-out 
responses would result in an unpredictable good-circuit 
signature for MISR, from which no faulty-circuit 
signature could be differentiated. Therefore, space 
compactors emerge to be an important solution to the 
scan-out response compaction due to its unknown-tolerant 
property.  
 
In this project, we will first analyze the masking 
effects (error masking and unknown- induced masking) 
caused by a space compactor. Second, we will attempt to 
mathematically derive the probabilities that each masking 
effect happens based on any given configuration of the 
space compactor. Third, we will correlate the above 
probabilities of the masking effects to a direct test-quality 
metrics (for example stuck-at fault coverage), instead of 
any indirect metrics such as number of tolerated 
unknowns in each scan-shift cycle (used in other previous 
work). Last, we will develop an automatic design flow for 
building a space compactor with maximal compaction 
ratio while achieving desired level of test quality based on 
given testing resources. 
 
 
The rest of the report is organized as follows. In 
Section 2, we first show that the error masking (aliasing) 
barely affects fault coverage for a space compactor. The 
unknown-induced masking is the major concern for 
coverage loss. In Section 3, we describe a mathematical 
formula for predicting the percentage of observable 
responses under unknown-induced masking. We also 
show how to use this mathematical analysis to construct a 
space compactor with a maximal compaction ratio and a 
desired observable percentage. In Section 4, we propose a 
simulation-based scheme to predict the stuck-at-fault 
coverage and BCE for different observable percentages, 
so that we can correlate the observable percentage of a 
space compactor directly with the test quality. Section 5 
describes the flow of constructing an optimal space 
compactor based on a desired stuck-at-fault coverage or 
BCE coverage. 
 
2. Masking Effects of XOR Matrices 
Two types of masking effects may affect the fault 
detection for a space compactor. The first is error 
masking or so-called aliasing. Error- masking means that 
multiple error values cancel one another out through the 
XOR matrix and result in the same values as those of the 
fault-free circuit at the outputs of the space compactor. 
The second masking effect is unknown-induced masking. 
Unknown-induced masking occurs when a compacted 
output response in the fault-free circuit is infected by 
unknown values. Once the compacted output response of 
the fault-free circuit becomes unknown, it is impossible to 
differentiate any faulty response from this fault-free 
output response. 
 
In practice, error masking (aliasing) rarely affects the 
fault coverage. This is because few faults will propagate 
all of the faulty values to the space compactor in the same 
scan-shift cycle under a test pattern. Even if all of the 
faulty values arrive in the same scan-shift cycle, aliasing 
may not happen at every output. A fault is un-detected 
only if all its faulty values are aliasing at every output and 
for every test pattern. In Table 1, we show the results of 
using a simple XOR tree to compact the responses of 50 
scan chains into 1 output for four large ISCAS and ITC 
circuits. In this experiment, we generated ATPG patterns 
for stuck-at faults without applying any compaction 
scheme. Then we ran another stuck-at-fault simulation, 
applying a 50-to-1 XOR tree. No unknown values existed 
in this experiment. Therefore, the fault coverage loss (if 
any) is solely due to error-masking. 
 
 
Table 1: Error masking by applying a 50-to-1 simple XOR tree 
 
In Table 1, Column 2 lists the number of ATPG 
patterns. Column 3 lists the number of detected faults 
without using any compactor. Column 4 lists the number 
of un-detected faults using the 50-to-1 XOR tree. Column 
5 lists the number of faults which produce aliasing faulty 
values in at least one test pattern. Column 6 lists the ratio 
of the aliasing fault count to the total detected fault count 
in percentage. The results indicate that only a very small 
portion of faults can generate aliasing faulty values 
(0.189\% at most), even though the compactor in use has a 
high chance of error masking (50 chains to only one 
output). Furthermore, those faults generating aliasing 
faulty values on one pattern may not generate aliasing 
faulty values on the other patterns. The results in Table 1 
show that all aliasing faults can eventually be detected for 
s35932, s38417, and s38584. Only 15 faults are 
un-detected for b17. In summary, the fault coverage loss 
due to error masking is trivial, if any, and thus is not a 
major issue in designing a space compactor. 
 
On the other hand, unknown-induced masking 
influences the fault coverage more significantly than error 
masking. When multiple unknowns go to a space 
compactor, some responses may not be observed at all 
due to unknown-induced masking, and the fault coverage 
is directly proportional to the percentage of observable 
responses. In this paper, we focus on optimizing the 
percentage of observable responses with a given unknown 
percentage. Therefore, our rules for constructing a 
single-weight Xor matrix is different from the rules of the 
X-Compactor, which requires an odd weight (number of 
Xor gates each column) and a unique matrix column for 
each chain. An odd weight and unique columns can 
reduce the aliasing probability. However, it may not 
always be helpful in reducing the probability of 
unknown-induced masking. For our Xor matrix, the 
weight can be arbitrary and the matrix columns can be 
identical. 
 
3. Observable Percentage under Unknown- Induced 
Masking 
 
3.1 Mathematical Analysis 
In this project, we use single-weight space compactors, 
in which the number of Xor gates is identical for every 
column of the Xor matrix. We first give the definition of 
an observable response under unknown-induced masking. 
Computing those predicted observable percentages takes 
only seconds. As the table shows, the maximum number 
of scan chains is 240 and the optimal weight is 2 for the 
desired observable percentage of 90%. In a similar 
manner, we can further continue the experiment to search 
for a more specific number of scan chains within 240-260. 
 
 
Table 5: Predicted observable percentage with respect to 
different numbers of chains and weights, given M = 8 and p = 
0.5%. 
 
Maximizing the number of scan chains can reduce the 
test data volume stored for the good-circuit results of the 
space compactor. Also, it can shorten the test application 
time because the length of the scan chains becomes 
shorter. However, if there is a limit on the number of scan 
chains, we could connect multiple scan cells of a scan 
chain to the compactor as shown in Figure 2. In this 
triple-connection example, once the output result of the 
compactor is observed by the ATE for one scan-out cycle, 
the results for the next two scan-shift cycles will be 
discarded. In this way, the test data volume can be 
reduced although the time application time remains the 
same. 
 
 
Figure 2: Multiple connection of one scan chain 
 
4. Observable Percentage vs. Test Quality 
 
4.1 Fault Coverage and BCE for Different Observable 
Percentages 
The next question we attempt to answer is: how would 
the observable percentage be related to the test quality? 
As an attempt to make some observations before 
answering this question, we conducted experiments on 
four large ITC and ISCAS circuits (with more than 1000 
flip-flops) to observe the trend of observable percentages 
on the test quality. We used the same stuck-at-fault 
patterns as those used in Table 1. The patterns were 
generated by an industrial, in-house ATPG. We ran 
stuck-at-fault simulation using these patterns and 
randomly selected scan-out responses for observation 
based on a given observable percentage. Table 6 lists the 
stuck-at-fault coverage and the coverage loss for different 
observable percentages. The definition of coverage loss is 
the coverage of observing all responses (obs. %=1.0) 
minus the coverage of the given observable percentage. 
The results show that the coverage loss with respect to an 
observable percentage is highly circuit-dependent. Using 
the average to predict the coverage loss would result in a 
significant error. 
 
 
Table 6: Stuck-at-fault coverage loss with respect to different 
observable percentages. 
 
We conducted similar experiments for another 
important test quality metric, BCE [16], which quantifies 
the impact of multiple-detection of the stuck-at faults and 
can also approximate the bridge-fault coverage. Table 7 
lists the BCE's and the BCE loss for different observable 
percentages. A similar trend was observed as in Table 7. 
The BCE and the loss vary from circuit to circuit. 
Therefore, we can conclude that the circuit and the test 
patterns must be taken as input parameters for accurate 
analysis. 
 
 
Table 7: BCE loss with respect to different observable 
percentages. 
 
4.2 Prediction of Fault Coverage and BCE 
In this session, we propose a one-time 
fault-simulation-based method to predict both the 
stuck-at-fault coverage and BCE for any given list of 
observable percentages. The inputs to this prediction 
method include a test set, the circuit, and a list of 
 
Table 10: Runtime comparison (in seconds) between original 
BCE simutalion and our prediction scheme. 
 
5. Construct Space Compactors with Desired Level of 
Test Quality 
In this section, we summarize the flow for 
constructing an optimal space compactor. Given the 
circuit, the structural test set, the number of available 
ATE channels M for observing responses, and a desired 
level of stuck-at-fault coverage or BCE (c_level), we 
identify the configuration of the space compactor and the 
number of scan chains based on the following steps: 
 
a) Extract unknown percentage (xp) from the 
responses of the test set using logic simulation. 
b) List the predicted fault coverages and BCEs for 
different observable percentages based on the test 
set (as in Section 4.2). 
c) Choose a desired observable percentage (op) 
satisfying c_level. 
d) Construct the compactor with a maximal number of 
scan chains (max_c) based on given M, xp, and op 
(as in Section 3.2). 
e) Divide the scan cells into max_c chains or use the 
multiple-connection scheme for each chain (as 
discussed in Figure 3). 
 
三、結論 
In this project, we first shows that the error-masking 
effect has little impact on fault coverage for designing a 
space compactor. The effect of unknown-induced 
masking is, in fact, the main concern. We propose an 
analytical framework for predicting the percentage of 
observable responses under unknown-induced masking 
for a space compactor. This analysis is also valid for 
clustered unknowns. Based on this analysis, we can 
efficiently construct a space compactor with a maximal 
compaction ratio for achieving a desired level of 
observable percentage. Furthermore, we propose a 
simulation-based scheme to correlate an observable 
percentage of responses to its fault coverage and BCE. 
Enabled by this scheme, we can efficiently evaluate the 
quality of a space compactor based on the test-quality 
metrics such as fault coverage and BCE, instead of the 
indirect test-quality metrics like the number of tolerated 
unknowns or the aliasing probability. 
 
四、參考文獻 
1. C. Barnhart, V. Brunkhorst, F. Distler, O. Farnsworth, B. 
Keller, and B. Koenemann, “OPMISR: The Foundation for 
Compressed ATPG Vectors”, IEEE Int'l Test Conference, 
pp.748-757, 2001. 
2. I. Pomeranz, S. Kundu, and S. M. Reddy, “Masking of 
Unknown Output Values during Output Response 
Compression by Using Comparison Units”, IEEE Tran. on 
Computers, Vol. 53, No. 1, Jan, pp.83-89, 2004. 
3. Y. Tang, H.-J. Wunderlich, H. Vranken, F. Hapke, M. 
Wittke, P. Engelke, I. Polian, and B. Becker, “X-Masking 
During Logic BIST and Its Impact on Defect Coverage”, 
IEEE Int'l Test Conference, pp.442-451, 2004. 
4. V. Chickermane, B. Foutz, and B. Keller, “Channel 
Masking Synthesis for Efficient On-Chip Test 
Compression”, IEEE Int'l Test Conference, pp.452-460, 
2004. 
5. P. Wohl, J. A. Waicukauski, S. Patel, and M. B. Amin, 
“X-Tolerant Compression and Application of Scan-ATPG 
Patterns in a BIST Architecture”, IEEE Int'l Test 
Conference, pp.727-736, 2003. 
6. J. Rajski, J. Tyszer, M. Kassab, and N. Mukherjee, 
“Selective Linear Compactor of Test Responses with 
Unknown Values”, USA pending patent application, 2002. 
7. H. Tang, C. Wang, J. Rajski, S. M. Meddy, J. Tyszer, and I. 
Pomeranz, “On Efficient X-handling Using a Selective 
Compaction Scheme to Achieve High Test Response 
Compaction Ratios”, IEEE Int'l Conference on VLSI 
Design, pp.59-64, 2005. 
8. S. Mitra, and K. S. Kim, “X-Compact: an efficient response 
compaction technique for test cost reduction”, IEEE Int'l 
Test Conference, pp.311-320, 2002. 
9. P. Wohl, and L. Huisman, “Analysis and Design of Optimal 
Combinational Compactors”, IEEE VLSI Test Symposium, 
pp. 101-106, 2003. 
10. C. Wang, S. M. Reddy, I. Pomeranz, J. Rajski, and J. 
Tyszer, “On Compacting Test Response Data Containing 
Unknown Values”, ACM/IEEE Int'l Conference on 
Computer Aided Design, pp.855-862, November 2003. 
11. J. Rajski, C. Wang, and S. M. Reddy, “Convolutional 
Compaction Of Test Responses”, IEEE Int'l Test 
Conference, pp. 745-754, 2003. 
12. Y. Han, Y. Hu, H. Li, and X. Li, “Theoretic Analysis and 
Enhanced X-Tolerance of Test Response Compact based on 
Convolutional Code”, IEEE Asia and South Pacific Design 
Automation Conference, pp. 53-58, 2005. 
13. M. Arai, S. Fukumoto, and K. Iwasaki, “Analysis of 
Error-Masking and X-Masking Probabilities for 
Convolutional Compactors”, IEEE Int'l Test Conference, 
paper 24.1, 2005. 
14. J. H. Patel, S. S.Lumetta, and S. M. Reddy, “Application of 
Saluja-Karpovsky Compactors to Test Responses with 
Many Unknowns”, IEEE VLSI Test Symposium, pp. 
107-112, 2003. 
15. J. Rajski, and J. Tyszer, “Synthesis of X-tolerant 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                            2007 年 6 月 20 日 
報告人姓名 趙家佐 服務機構 及職稱 
國立交通大學 
電子工程學系 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
June 4-8, 2007 
San Diego, CA, USA 
本會核定 
補助文號 
計畫編號 NSC96-2218-E-009-005
會議 
名稱 
2007 IEEE International Design Automation Conference 
發表 
論文 
題目 
無 
 
一、參與會議經過： 
 
    Design Automation Conference (DAC) 一向都是 EDA 領域參與人數最多的國際會
議，今年第 44 屆 DAC 在美國加州的 San Diego 舉行，總計有超過 50 個 session、150 篇
論文，論文被接受比率約為四分之一。我這次參與之 technical session 有 ＂Novel 
Techniques for Interconnect＂、“Statistical Techniques for Timing Analysis and Design＂、
“Process Aware Physical Design＂ 、“Practical Solutions for Power-Aware Testing＂ 、
“3D IC and Package Design Issues＂ 以及 “System-Level Power Management and 
Analysis ＂  ， Panel session 有  “ Making Manufacturing Work for You ＂  以 及
“Verification Coverage: When is Enough Enough?＂ 。此外，DAC 的展覽辦的非常成功，
廠商參與非常踴躍，可以在展覽中獲得最近 EDA tool 發展的進度. 並且，在這次會議種，
有與幾位 Mentor Graphics 及的研發核心人物如 Dr. Rajski 與 Dr. Tyszer, 針對 IC 測試領
進行交流. 另外，有間剛成立的小公司 Nanovata，是做 post route optimization for timing / 
si / yield，感覺其研發之軟體十分實用，與其核心工程師 Dr. Lee 的討論也相當熱烈。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
本會參與人數多，參展廠商多，涵概研究領域新穎，邀請的講者也夠具知名度，唯
獨 technical session 中的討論並不如預期熱烈，但 session 完畢後會 speaker 會集中到一間
會議室中讓大家發會，這時的討論就會比較熱烈。總體而言，收穫不少。 
 
 
三、建議 
 
以後只要經費許可，應多鼓勵學生參與，DAC 有 student booth，很適合 EDA 的學生出去
開眼界，藉此刺激對研究工作的嚮往，並擴展國際學生之間交流 
附件三
