行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
塑膠封裝整合技術製作低成本壓電式自我發電裝置 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-008-016  
執行期限：99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 9 月 30 日 
主持人：傅尹坤         執行單位 中央大學機械工程學系 
Email: michaelfuh@cc.ncu.edu.tw 
 
 
中文摘要 
本計劃提出塑膠封裝式的壓電發電裝置。利用壓電陶瓷作為自我供電的傳感器之電力源
應用。首先採用塑膠熱壓成型技術，其特色是低成本和高可靠性/ 可重複性的加工製造。
並且利用 unimorph  和  bimorph 的壓電陶瓷（PZT）配置， 達到最佳的發電效能與可
靠結構，同時能在惡劣環境中使用。本計劃之振動源為低重力加速度（等於或小於 0.5g）
和高重力加速度（大於 10g）兩種，以進行研究。測試結果顯示，在 PZT 尺寸為 10mm × 
3 mm × 0.2 mm 和 10g 的重力加速度時，本計劃所提出之塑膠封裝式的壓電發電裝置可
以產生最大功率。除此之外，詳細分析與實驗在封裝和不封裝時這兩種發電裝置的破壞
模式。完成塑膠封裝式的壓電發電裝置在高重力加速度環境的可靠性測試。 
 
ABSTRACT 
This project aims to propose and develop a novel plastic energy harvest system by utilizing 
piezoelectric ceramics as power source for self-powered sensor applications. Plastic hot 
embossing is first employed with emphasis on low cost and high reliability/repeatability 
manufacturing process. Both piezoelectric (PZT) configurations of unimorph and bimorph are 
utilized with particular focus on power maximization and highly-reliable structures in order to 
survive on harsh environment. Vibration sources for both low-g (equal or less than 0.5g) and 
high-g (greater than 10g) are investigated and several PZT harvesters are proposed and will be 
built in response to the power requirement of low-g and reliability concerns in high-g 
environment.The preliminary measurement results show that for PZT dimension of 
10mm×3mm×0.2mm and 10g acceleration, the proposed plastic harvester can generate 
maximum power. 
Keywords: Plastic, Package, PZT, Harvester, Vibration  
INTRODUCTION 
Increasing difficulty and cost in replacing batteries for densely populated sensor 
networks has inspired alternative solutions in power generation from sustainable resources 
[1-2]. For example, piezoelectric energy harvesters have the potential as the power source for 
remote sensing devices by utilizing vibration energy from the surrounding environment [3]. 
resin sealant or thermosetting resin after the device assembly process.  Key features of the 
pre-molded package design are: 
1. Low-cost, high volume production, 
2. Cavity design for flexible system configurations, 
3. Tight dimensional tolerance, 
4. Surface mountable, and 
5. Proven reliability. 
 
Fig.1.  (a) Schematic diagram of the proposed piezoelectric energy harvester with integrated 
polymeric package where a pre-molded thermoplastic package is integrated with a custom 
designed lead-frame and cantilever structure.  The encapsulation lid is not shown in this 
diagram.  (b) Cross sectional view of the device showing the harvester design including 
pre-molded plastic package with motion stops, pick-and- 
place PZT bimorph and proof mass. 
 
The pre-molded packages can be easily realized in laboratory through an injection 
molding or hot embossing processes.  The custom designed lead-frame can be embedded 
concurrently in the molding process to realize low-cost and mass production.  In this work, a 
hot embossing mold and lead-frame structure are designed, fabricated and tested as the 
proof-of-concept demonstration.  
 
The general principle for conversion of mechanical, low frequency alternating current 
(AC) stress into electrical energy using a piezoelectric bimorph transducer can be found in 
various previous publications with output voltage, V, as: 


















+−






= 2
2
2
31
2
12
nn
bP
nincp
RCRCk
A
a
tdC
jV ωξω
ω
ε
ω              
( )
1
22
31
2 21
−










−+++ ω
ξω
ωω
b
n
n
RC
kj                                         (1) 
Where ω is the driving frequency, Cp is the elastic constant of the piezoelectric 
ceramics, d31 is the piezoelectric strain coefficient operated in the 31 mode, tc is the thickness 
on various assumptions and constraints.  For example, the basic assumption here is the 
cantilever structure and the proof mass.  When the geometry is not a cantilever-shape or the 
mass of the cantilever can’t be neglected as compared with the proof mass, analytical formula 
has to be modified.  Nevertheless, the above analyses imply that the proposed PZT harvester 
is capable of delivering power under the 0.25g acceleration resource, ranging from 10µWatt to 
10mWatt using the proposed PZT structures of millimeter-scale, which is readily available in 
PZT industry.  Furthermore, the optimal matching resistor magnitudes fall in the range of 20k 
to 100kΩ. 
The effect of acceleration amplitude from 0.25 to 10g is simulated in Fig.2(b) using the 
base-line PZT structure.  As expected, the power output is in general, proportional to the 
square of acceleration while the optimal matching resistor values remains unchanged as the 
external acceleration magnitude increases.  Under the 10g acceleration environment, such as 
in some of the automobiles applications, the output power can reach a few hundred mWatt with 
the base-line PZT structure. The resonance effect is further investigated in Fig.2(c).  When the 
driving frequency increases from 997 to 1037Hz at an interval of 5Hz (the theoretically 
calculated resonant frequency of the structure is 1017Hz), more output power is observed when 
the driving frequency matched to the natural frequency of harvester.  If the driving frequency 
is 10Hz away from resonance, the peak output power output can drop as much as one-third of 
the peak output power at resonance.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig..2.  (a) Parametric study on the effects of PZT dimensions of maximum output power 
generation with respect to varying loading resistor magnitudes based on the analytical models 
of a lumped system. Length effect (blue), width effect (pink) and thickness effect (black) are 
investigated.  Base-line bimorph PZT dimension is 10×3×0.2mm
3 
and the vibration 
environment is 200Hz at 0.25g.  (b) Output power versus external matching resistor under 
various accelerations from 0.25 to 10g for the base-line bimorph harvester. (c)  Study of 
varying driving frequencies around the resonant frequency of the PZT structure at 1017Hz. 
 
The detail fabrication process flow of the proposed integrated package scheme is shown 
in Fig.4(a).  The process starts with custom designed lead-frame structure of nickel plated 
brass (0.2mm thick brass with nickel plating finish for corrosion resistance). A hot embossing 
mold is designed to incorporate the plastic package and lead-frame into the pre-molded 
package.  In this demonstration, Topas
®
COC polymer is used and the mold is heated to 320°F 
and a pressure of 22.64 KPsi is applied.  The plastic package has the cavity as well as motion 
stop designs using a one-step plastic molding process.  It is noted that the fabricated 
prototypes in Figs.4(b)-(c) were black in color due to the use of carbon-based mold release 
agent (41112N, Slide Inc.).  The overall size of the prototype energy harvester is 
30×10×6mm
3
 and the motion stop distance can be adjusted according to the height of the PZT 
and proof mass by varying the lid dimension.  In the prototype structure presented in this 
work, the upper motion-stop distance is set at 2mm.  The prototype package has an overall 
dimension of 30x14x2.5mm
3
 for the bottom package and 30x14x3.5mm
3
 for the top lid 
structure.  Conductive epoxy (Loctite quicktite) is applied around the edge of the package 
before the pick-and-place process for the PZT and proof mass installations.  Electrical wires 
are bonded using the conductive silver paste (Wahl Electronics 7459 Solder) and the lid is 
glued and cured for 1 hour.  At the end of the process, one can separate and crimp the leads 
such that the harvester can be used as a discrete device.  The proposed plastic package scheme 
has potentials to integrate various sensors inside a single package with the self-powered energy 
source. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.4.  (a) Fabrication process flow for the proposed energy harvester with integrated package 
using pre-molded lead-frame.  (b) Preliminary fabrication result after the step – “molded 
package with lead-frame.” The length, width and thickness of the whole plastic package is 
 Figure 6 shows the experimental results of the base-line PZT structures under 1 and 10g 
acceleration at 200Hz as well as analytical simulation results.  It clearly illustrates two 
important characteristics.  First, higher acceleration results in higher output power as expected.  
Under 1g acceleration and 5 grams proof mass, the measured maximum output power is 
137µWatt and under 10g acceleration, the maximum output power reached 10.13mWatt.  
Second, the theoretical predictions by using equations (1) show peak output power is about five 
times higher than the experimental results.  Several possible reasons are discussed here. First, 
the load resistors used in experiment are at an increment of 50kΩ in the 10-300kΩ range and 
this increment may not capture the optimal “matching” resistor value.  Second, the damping 
effect of the harvester package is not modeled in equation (1) and this could be a big source of 
overestimation.  Third, the analytical model assumes the proof mass as a point load and the 
moment acting on the beam by the rotational inertia of the proof mass is neglected.  Further 
investigations in this aspect are required to improve the energy conversion efficiency. 
Experimentally, these harvesters have all been tested for more than 60,000 cycles and 
no changes are found on the output voltage across the resistors.  As such, we believe these 
simple PZT bimorph structures with integrated packages could be feasible to harvest vibration 
energy at off-resonance states and the maximum output power can be designed based on the 
specifications of various applications/environments to provide power in the range of 
sub-mWatt to tens of mWatt range depending on the external acceleration, driving frequency 
and harvester dimensions. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
This work presents an integrated approach for low-cost plastic energy harvesters by 
utilizing piezoelectric ceramics as the power source and polymeric hot embossing process for 
the integrated package.  Several conclusions can be drawn from this work.  First, a plastic, 
pre-molded packaged can be introduced for low-cost manufacturing process. Second, energy 
harvesters with integrated plastic package for vibration sources of either low g (equal or less 
than 0.5g) or high g (equal or greater than 10g) environments can be designed and 
implemented.  Third, concerns on  
mechanical fracture under high-g environment can be addressed by utilizing the design of 
mechanical motion stoppers.  Forth, measurement results show these energy harvesters have 
the capabilities of generating up to tens of mWatt power under the right design and vibration 
environments.  We believe the proposed package scheme with pre-molded structure can be 
further developed in conjunction with other devices such as matching circuitry, supercapacitor 
or rechargeable batteries as a standalone power system for wireless sensor networks.   
 
 
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                   日期： 100 年 11 月 20 日 
一、參加會議經過 
2011 年中國國際納米科學技術會議 (ChinaNano2011 )於 2011 年九月七日至九日，為
期三天，於中國北京舉行，此一研討會主要由 Chinese Academy of Sciences、Council 
of National Center for Nanoscience and Technology, China 主辦，主要著重於
nanoscience and nanotechnology. 本次會議主要關注主題十分廣泛，包含inorganic 
nanomaterials and MOFs, carbon nanomaterials, organic and polymeric 
nanomaterials, nanocomposites and applications, nanodevices and nanosystem, 
nanobiotechnology and nanomedicine, characterization and standards of 
nanostructures, nano-optics and plasmonics, as well as modeling and 
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E－008－016 
計畫名稱 塑膠封裝整合技術製作低成本壓電式自我發電裝置 
出國人員
姓名 傅尹坤 
服務機構
及職稱 國立中央大學機械工程學系 
會議時間 
 100年 9月 7日
至 
 100年 9月 9日 
會議地點 北京 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2011 年中國國際納米科學技術會議 
(英文) ChinaNano 2011 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)利用多孔性材料之簡易靜電紡絲製程量產奈米纖維不織布 
(英文) A Facile, Scalable Electrospinning Process using Porous 
Materials for High-Throughput Production of Nanofibrous Mats 
 3 
Sub-conference 3: Organic and polymeric nanomaterials  
Sub-conference 6: Nanobiotechnology and nanomedicine 
Thursday, September 8 19:00-21:00  
Sub-conference 4: Nanocomposites and applications 
Sub-conference 5: Nanodevices and nanosystems 
Sub-conference 7: Characterization and standards of nanostructures 
Sub-conference 8: Nano-optics and plasmonics  
Sub-conference 9: Modeling and simulation of nanostructures 
 
二、與會心得 
筆者在這次會議中，認識許多來自世界不同地區及不同領域的研究奈米相當知名之
相關學者，並發表本實驗室在奈米纖維的一些相關研究成果，特別是壓電奈米纖維
大量及低價生產方面，希望能藉此機會瞭解國外相關研究的進展，並增廣見聞。大
會均嚴謹的排定時間 keynote speech、口頭與展示海報，有些學者也就我們展示的
研究成果加以討論。此行深感收獲甚多。以下筆者僅就這次行程中的會議，作一簡
短的心得報告。近幾年由喬志亞理工學院王中齡博士於 2006 年率先以奈米具壓電特
性之氧化鋅線製作出奈米發電機(nanogenerator)以來，此一領域有著爆炸性的快速
發展，成為奈米研究及實際應用之為新興的研究領域與主要顯學，但由於奈米氧化
鋅線之壓電特性並不如一般常用之壓電材料，同時其奈米 bottom-up 組成方式需要
相當精準繁複且耗時昂貴之奈米組成方式，因此如何以大量及低價方式生產與製作
奈米發電機，本次會議中有一些討論即著重在此方面並期待應用能開展。 
 5 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容(本實驗室發表之論文海報與抽印本) 
論文發表海報 
 
 7 
arrangement is often structurally complex, prohibitively expensive, and vulnerable to clogging. Prior research shows that while 
throughput can be improved, the mutual interference phenomenon inevitably becomes serious among the multiple jets.
7
  
The literature contains some elaborate alternatives to address this problem. Jirsak et al. described a rotating drum device for 
electrospinning multiple jets at a rate of about 1.5 gmin
−1
 per meter length.
8
 Wang et al. produced nanofibers using a conical metal 
wire-coil as a spinneret.
9
 Yarin and Zussman used magnetic fluid spikes 
10
 to produce finer nanofibers on a larger scale and 
needleless electrospinning for throughput enhancement. Liu et al. fabricated nanofibers by mimicking spider web-spinning and used 
an aerated polymer solution to create various bubbles with very small surface tension in a relatively lower electric field.
11,12
 
Dosunmu et al. produced nanofibers by pneumatically pushing electrified polymer solution through the walls of a porous 
poly-ethylene tube to achieve a remarkably high mass production rate.
13
 This method boosts the mass production rate to 250 times 
than of a typical single jet. However, the resulting electrospun nanofibrous mats suffer seriously from cylindrical shapes and 
retrieval problems, precluding this technique from wide-spread adoption. Sun & Chieh
14,15
 proposed a modified process called 
Near-Field Electro-Spinning (NFES) that decreases the distance between syringe and collector to create orderly, direct-write fashion 
nanofibers.  
This study proposes a new electrospinning method that combines both conventional and NFES processes. The proposed 
method decreases the distance between the collector and spinneret and uses porous materials in a fashion fundamentally different 
from other mass production, needleless electrospinning processes. The proposed technique is easily realized, has a comparatively 
lower voltage, and achieves a higher production rate. 
  
2. EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS 
 
The electrospinning process was carried out with the proposed device, which primarily consists of a syringe, a porous 
material, a DC high voltage generator (AU-1592,Matsusada Precisioninc.,JP .), and a grounded collector (Fig.1 (a)). Porous 
materials with various dimensions (0.5×1×1.5 mm
3
 and 2 ×2×6 mm
3
 as bars and 4×1×12 mm
3
 as a film, both purchased from 
BASFTM Basotect® Melamine foam) were mechanically pierced and chemically bonded to the syringe needle using super glue 
(Ethyl 2-Cyanoacrylate, Toronto Research Chemical Co.). The collector was a 2” silicon wafer (P-type, Bionic Technology Co., 
TW), which was placed on the Z-axis stage to allow adjustments in the anode-to-cathode distance. Figure 1(b) shows the proposed 
device in a large scale with an extended porous bar immersed in polymer channel and electrified to produce nanofibrous mats 
collected by a reeling system [16].   
The polymer, polyethylene oxide (PEO) (Mv =300 000, ECHO Chemical Co., TW), was first dissolved into a mixture of DI 
water as a solvent. The PEO solution concentration was adjusted to 7wt% .
14,15
 The distance between the liquid surface and the 
collector was 8 mm. At the beginning of the process, the DC high voltage generator was turned on at 6KV, corresponding to an 
electric field on the order of 7.5×10
5
V/m.  
A 10 wt% PVDF (Mw = 534 000, Sigma-Aldrich) solution was first dissolved in dimethylforamide (DMF) and acetone 
(weight ratio 1:1), and 3wt% Zonyl®UR was then added to reduce the surface tension.
17
 The distance between the liquid surface 
and the collector was 10 mm. The DC high voltage was 7KV, corresponding to an electric field of 7×10
5 
V/m. In comparison, the 
critical electrical fields in NFES and conventional processes were on the order of 3×10
6
V/m and 10
5
V/m, respectively. In terms of 
electric field, the proposed process is similar to NFES in that it takes advantage of stable liquid jet region for better process 
control.
14
  
The diameter and surface morphology of both PEO and PVDF nanoﬁbers are analyzed using scanning electron microscope 
(SEM, JSM-6700f , JEOL Co.) at 10 kV accelerating voltage. Prior to SEM imaging, nanoﬁbers are electrospun onto silicon 
 9 
Figure 5 shows the frequency distribution plots of the fibers diameters obtained from both the porous materials and a single 
hollow metal needle with the same processing conditions. The distribution curves in this figure indicate that most of the fibers had 
diameters between 100 and 250 nm, while less than 20% of the fibers had diameters of 100 nm or larger. Further comparison shows 
that the two distributions had slightly different mean diameters (the proposed method was 170nm compared with 130nm for the 
conventional single needle method). The standard deviation of the proposed method was broader at 70nm, while the conventional 
method yielded 46nm under the same electrospinning process. In terms of production rate, the conventional multi-jet device has a 
minimal separation distance of approximately 2mm due to the physical dimensions of individual nozzles.
20
 However, most 
applications adopt 10mm spacing due to operation concerns, yielding a jet density of approximately 0.01 jets/ mm
2
.  
Previous research reports that production rate can be enhanced using magnetic fluid spikes and in comparison with separate 
nozzles located in a pitch of 1cm on a square of 4cm
2
, yielding a better deposition from 0.0225 jets/mm
2
 to 0.26 jets/mm
2
. This jet 
density increases the production rate by a factor of 12 
10
. In the proposed method, the jets per area was on the order of 0.85~1.5 
jets/mm
2 
and can easily surpass the magnetic method by a factor of 3.3 to 5.8. This increased jet density was experimentally found 
to be the main contributing factor to significantly increase mass production rate.
13 
In order to quantitatively determine the actual production rate, we weight the naofibers after 
electrospinning and compare our results with the single needle and other methods. For PEO electrospinning 
and the same experimental setup described earlier (7wt% solution concentration, 8 mm distance between the 
liquid surface and the collector, 6KV DC high voltage, syringe pump feeding rate 0.01ml /h ), the single 
needle (OD 550µm, ID330µm) produced nanoﬁbers at a rate of about 0.0004 g/ h. Our new method using 
porous material with dimension of 0.5×1×1.5 mm
3 
produced nanoﬁbers at a significantly higher rate and 
production rates are found to be 0.005 g/ h and 0.03g/ h for syringe pump feeding rates at 0.3ml /h and 1ml /h, 
respectively. These are 12.5 and 75 times the production rate of the single needle under two different solution 
feeding rates. Experimentally, the single needle cannot produce nanofibers at a feeding rate higher than 
0.01ml /h due to inability to electrospin at such a short distance of 8mm. Similarly, the operation window of 
solution feeding rate for porous material in our current setup is experimentally found in the range of 0.3ml /h 
and 1ml /h, respectively. As a comparison, previous research
13
 reports that the 2cm section of polymer ﬁlled 
porous tubular surface with OD 3.1cm and ID 1.7cm produced nanoﬁbers at a rate about 250 times the rate of 
the single needle. However, the exact feeding rate is unclear and the applied voltage is significantly higher at 
20KV.   
The advantages of the proposed method include a lower voltage (D.C. 6 KV), simple construction, and ability to be 
scaled-up to yield higher productivity than the conventional single jet electrospinning process. Nevertheless, nanofibers produced by 
porous materials show a broader diameter distribution than the single syringe method. This may be attributed to size variations in 
pore distribution (50-300 µm). This broader variation in nanofiber diameter is a phenomenon that cannot be avoided because the 
geometric shapes of porous materials and the pore surfaces are highly irregular (Fig. 3 (c)). However, a significantly uniform porous 
medial such as permeable mats produced from electrospinning process can be adopted to enhance both nanofiber mean diameters 
and standard deviation.
16
 This proposal is currently under development and will be reported in the future.  
The popular ferroelectric material PVDF was also electrospun to demonstrate the versatility of proposed electrospinning 
using porous materials. Figure 6 (a) shows images of electrospun PVDF nanofibers mats; the scale bar is 50µm (SEM image inset the 
scale bar is 1µm). Results show that the same process can be used to produce PVDF nanofibrous mats with an average diameter of 
160 nm. FTIR is typically used to characterize the crystal phases, and Fig. 6(b) shows the as-spun PVDF nanofiber intensities. 
 11 
 
Figure 1. (a) Schematic of a porous material electrospinning. (b)The proposed 
mass-producible electrospinning apparatus [16].
 13
Figure 3. Optical photos of multiple jets from the porous material to the grounded 
collector (a) porous bar (length×width×height is 0.5×1×1.5 mm
3
) and the resultant 
multiple jets, two different dimensions shown in (b) (2×2×6 mm
3
) and (c) (12×1× 4mm
3
) 
(d) The optical photo of surface structure of porous materials. The scale bar is 200 µm. 
 
 15
Figure 5. Frequency distributions of fiber diameters in PEO electrospinning from a 
porous bar and from a single hollow metal needle with the same electrospinning 
conditions (8 mm, 6 KV, 7wt% PEO). 
 
 17
五、 結語及其他:  
參加大型國際會議對於一個年輕學者而言，是吸收最新知識最佳途徑，筆者非常感
謝國科會補助筆者參與本次會議經費(補助編號: NSC 99-2221-E-008 -016)，除了得
以發表研究成果，並能藉此機會與國外學者專家交換研究心得及分享研究成果。這
對筆者從事奈米與壓電相關的研究有著無與倫比的鼓舞及幫助，再次感謝國科會委
員及業務人員的辛勞。 
 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：傅尹坤 計畫編號：99-2221-E-008-016- 
計畫名稱：塑膠封裝整合技術製作低成本壓電式自我發電裝置 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
