量降低於進行此一數值加速熱循環載重測試(Numerical accelerated temperature cycling test)之非線
性結構分析所需之可觀時間，本研究將利用前一年所發展之簡化但有效之錫材組成率建構策略
（Constitutive modeling strategy）並搭配一新型、兩階段的全域\區域有限元素分析方法(Two-staged 
global/local FE modeling technique)，以模擬錫球之熱機械(Thermal-mechanical)行為。所建構之有
限元素分析模式的有效性將以自建之 Twyman-Green 干涉儀量測其 Z 場方向的變形及對比文獻資
料加以驗證。數值模擬求出之錫球疲勞壽命將與利用以兩參數韋伯分佈函數之實驗結果比對以確
認分析結果之正確性。 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The state-of-the-art development of electronic devices is towards more integral functionality, higher 
speed and better electrical performance; thus, an electronic package that has lower signal degradation, 
higher reliability and lower cost is of great demand. WLCSP technologies provide a very promising 
alternative in fitting the high performance requirements for today’s electronic packaging applications. As 
compared to the flip chip (FC) packaging, almost all of the package process is conducted at the wafer 
level, and it does not need an underfill material to protect solder joints from thermal deformation that is 
generally induced from the CTE mismatch between silicon chip and PCB. As a result, the existing 
difficulties occurred in the FC packaging, such as reworkability and known good die (KGD), could be 
relieved. The main feature of the packaging approaches is its space efficiency and the potential for 
package cost reduction due to that a great number of dice are processed in parallel rather than serial as 
the FC technology. Recently, as a substitute of Thin Small Outline Packages (TSOP), the packaging 
technologies are employed in memory applications such as Flash and Dynamic Random Access Memory 
(DRAM) modules (Fig. 1) etc. 
It has been acknowledged that solder joint reliability is still the most critical and challenging issue 
in the development and extensive use of the WLCSP technology for practical applications. Notice that 
the industry prospects of board level reliability for wafer level packages are based on current standards 
for plastic packages. In general, board level reliability expectations are determined by the associated 
operating environment and intended applications. For examples, based on Amkor Technology Inc., 
board level reliability requirement for consumer applications is 300 cycles, for portables and telecom 
indoors is 600 cycles, for computer applications, such as desktops, laptops and workstations, is 900 
cycles, for auto under the good and commercial avionics is 1,500 cycles and for military and auto on 
engine is 2,400 cycles, when subjected to a –40 0C ~125 0C ATC test with 20 minute ramp and 10 
minute dwell at both the high and low temperature zones and the duration of 60 minutes per cycle. Thus, 
for memory applications, 1,000 thermal cycles are considered as a typical standard. The factors 
influencing WLCSP solder joint reliability and failure mechanisms include the configuration of 
packages and the geometry and materials of components, etc. The most common and effective approach 
for WLCSP to enhance its solder joint reliability is through the application of stress buffer layer [1-3]. 
Note that the standard WLCSP associated with a single stress buffer layer, as shown in Fig. 2(a), is 
simply termed as the conventional WLCSP (C-WLCSP). Basically, it holds a simple configuration and 
low cost, and more importantly, can provide considerable solder joint reliability as the stress buffer layer 
height is sufficiently large. The stress buffer layer, which is typically made of a polymer material, is 
deposited on the silicon wafer. It serves as not only a dielectric layer but also a compliant interposer 
between silicon chip and solder bump, which makes the packaging structure become more compliant, 
and accordingly, reduces thermal stresses. A thick buffer layer can be processed in a number of ways, 
such as multiple spinning etc. Under the current manufacturing and photolithography process capability, 
 2  
Twyman-Green interferometry measurement. Furthermore, for further validation of the proposed FE 
modeling, two experimental ATC tests are performed, associated with PP-WLCSP and C-WLCSP 
packages, respectively. The testing results are presented in a two-parameter Weibull distribution to 
characterize failure distribution. The fatigue life predicted by FE simulations is extensively compared 
against the experimental. In addition, the solder joint reliability performance of these WLCSP designs is 
also compared. At last, through parametric design of the double-pad structure, some reliability-enhanced 
design guidelines are provided. The associated design parameters comprise the number, height, diameter 
and distributing layout of copper columns in the double-pad structure.   
 
II. FABRICATION OF THE WLCSP PACKAGES 
The manufacturing process of these WLCSP packages is considerably simple and compatible to the 
standard WL packaging process; hence, the manufacturing cost of the WLCSP can be effective. Fig.5(a) 
and (b) present the manufacturing process of the conventional WLCSP and the DPS-WLCSP. Due to 
limited pages, only the manufacturing process of the DPS-WLCSP [24] is briefed as follows. As shown 
in Fig. 5(b), the manufacturing process of the DPS-WLCSP can be briefly categorized into seven 
manufacturing steps and these steps are associated with at most four mask processes. First of all, by way 
of the spin coating technique, a stress buffer layer is coated onto a silicon substrate, on which both 
electrode pads and passivation layer are defined. By a mask process, the first stress buffer layer is 
patterned to uncover these electrode pads, as shown in Fig. 5(b). In general, the above processes are 
generally completed in a dedicated IC foundry. The wafer is then delivered to the packaging house for 
subsequent processes. In this regard, the aforementioned mask process is neglected from the count of 
mask processes needed in the fabrication of the DPS-WLCSP. The wafer is further handled to build up 
under-bump-metallurgy (UBM) layers on the stress buffer layer through sputtering, as shown in Fig. 5(c). 
By using the first mask process to define the redistribution layer trace layout, the trace can then be made 
through a standard electroplating process. It can be easily observed that for the intact of these 
redistribution traces, the deposited thickness of the first stress buffer layer should be restricted. In 
general, 5~20μm is commonly used. Fig. 5(c) shows a silicon substrate with metal pads, a stress buffer 
layer and the redistribution trace after removal of the photoresist. Next, the second stress buffer layer is 
coated onto the substrate surface. The buffer layer is further patterned by the second mask process in 
order to create the channel of copper columns (see, Fig. 5(d)). The copper columns are then constructed 
by way of electroplating process. When copper spills out of these channels, copper pads can be formed, 
as shown in Fig. 5(e). Unlike the conventional redistribution process, this double-pad structure will be 
unlikely to cause the failure of the redistribution trace as applied to a thick stress buffer layer. 
Furthermore, a layer of solder mask is coated on the second stress buffer layer, and the corresponding 
location of the copper pads is patterned through the third mask process, as shown in Fig. 5(f). At last, by 
using standard bumping process, these solder bumps are created, as shown in Fig. 5(g). For better shape 
and formation of the second copper pad, an additional mask process is suggested in order for the 
deposition of the copper pad through both sputtering and electroplating processes. The major 
advantageous features in the DPS-WLCSP design is in its flexibility in adjusting the thickness of the 
second stress buffer layer for enhancing the corresponding solder joint reliability without concern of 
possible damage in the deposited redistribution layer trace.  
Based on the aforementioned process, the DPS-WLCSP prototypes are designed and fabricated, 
particularly for a 128M SDRAM application. The 8 inch wafer, shown in Fig. 1, is applied for the 
fabrication, and a sample of the fabricated, 46 I/O DPS-WLCSP is presented in Fig. 6(a). The DPS 
contains five copper columns with a diameter 30μm. Fig. 6(b) shows an example of the cross section of 
 4  
symmetry planes is constrained to prevent it from rigid body motion during FE analysis. In summary, 
the FE model size associated with these WLCSP is about 40,468 elements, and brick elements are, 
generally, used throughout the entire domain.  
The material properties of these components are listed in Table 1, based on [18]. The geometry 
dimension of these WLCSP as well as the printed circuit board (PCB) is shown in Table 2. In the FE 
modeling, the solder bump and stress buffer layer are considered non-linear and temperature-dependent. 
The temperature-dependent stress/strain relationship of the eutectic solder joints and the stress buffer 
layer [19,20] is depicted in Fig. 8(a) and 8(b), respectively. For charactering the contribution of 
irreversible plastic deformation to the strain, the rate-independent plastic deformation is modeled by 
Prandtl-Reuss equation and also the kinematic hardening rule. To ensure convergence of the iterations, 
the full Newton-Raphson method is used in the analysis. The stress free temperature is assumed to be 
room temperature (i.e., 250C). The thermal cycle profile for the testing is –55 0C ~125 0C with 15 minute 
ramp and dwell times. The duration of each cycle is 60 minutes. 
V. VALIDATION OF THE FE MODELING 
4.1 Twyman-Green interferometery measurement  
To validate the proposed FE modeling, a Twyman-Green interferometer system is set up. The 
Twyman-Green interferometer system could measure the real-time, whole-field, out-of-plane 
displacement of silicon chips subjected to temperature loading. For the Twyman-Green interferometer, a 
He-Ne laser beam with 0.63μm wavelength is applied. The beam splitter is employed to divide the laser 
beam into two orthogonal beams. After reflecting from the specimen and the mirror, the interference 
fringes are captured by a digital camera and a computer system. The out-of-plane displacement w, which 
basically depends on the wavelength λ, can be expressed as [21]: 
Kw
2
λ= ,                                        (4)   
where K is the interference fringe number. It should be noted that in the application of the 
Twyman-Green interferometer technique, the backside of wafer should be polished or shining for 
fulfilling measurement. Based on the equation, the resolution of the Twyman-Green interferometer is 
found to be 0.32μm.  
4.2 An ATC test 
Among those major environmental accelerated testing methodologies, ATC testing is generally 
applied for characterizing solder joint reliability of electronic devices. The testing is conducted based on 
JEDEC specification [22]. The test vehicles in this investigation include both C-WLCSP and 
PP-WLCSP packages on a printed circuit test board with a single layer, 1 mm thick. Both them have 
internal daisy chain that forms a closed loop with daisy chain on the test board. The daisy chain can 
facilitate the inspection of solder joint failure by means of continuous electrical monitoring. The 
criterion for an open solder joint is based on the associated cycle life in the first peak (at least 30% 
increase) of the measured electrical resistance. Generally, as soon as the first peak of the electrical 
resistance is observed, there are many additional peaks within about 10% of the cycle life. In order to 
identify the failure site with increased thermal cycles, except the aforementioned daisy chain, an 
additional electrical copper trace is fabricated in the ATC test board, shown in Fig. 9, for each peripheral 
solder joint in the package such that the corresponding signal can be independently measured. The 
thermal cycle profile for the testing is –40 0C~125 0C with 15 minute ramp and dwell times. The 
 6  
5.2 Validation by the ATC testing 
In the PP-WLCSP test vehicle, the corresponding polymer post is 35μm high, the first stress buffer 
layer 5μm thick and the second stress buffer layer 35μm thick. On the other hand, the buffer layer 
height in the C-WLCSP test vehicle is also 5 m. Other dimension can be found in Table 2. Fig. 10 shows 
an example of a Weibull plot of cycles to first failure for a set of PP-WLCSP test samples. A typical 
failure mechanism for the PP-WLCSP is shown in Fig. 11. Regardless of the test vehicles, the first 
failure is detected to occur from the peripheral ring in the corner solder joints with the maximum 
distance to neutral point. The solder joint cracking is observed at the interface between the solder joint 
and the polymer post, and the solder joint that is fatigued is located at the site with the maximum 
distance to neutral point. Based on the experimental data, the estimate of the scale and shape parameters 
is 392 cycles and 3.42, respectively. Thus, the corresponding characteristic life of the solder joint is 392 
cycles. It turns out that the fitting curve-the Weibull distribution correlates pretty much well with the 
experimental data. Likewise, the characterized solder joint characteristic life associated with the 
C-WLCSP is 200 cycles, as shown in Table 3. The corresponding fatigue life associated with 50% 
Weibull cumulative failure occurrence based on the obtained cumulative failure distribution function in 
Eq. (6) is 352 cycles and 179 cycles, associated with the polymer-post WLCSP and conventional 
WLCSP.  
The experimental data are further applied to validate the FE modeling of the test vehicles, which 
are shown in Fig. 7(b) and 7(d), respectively. The material properties associated with these two test 
vehicles are shown in Table 1. Based on the modified Coffin-Manson relationship, the prediction of the 
fatigue life of solder joints requires the corresponding strain information; however, in a nonlinear FE 
analysis, an extremely mesh-sensitive strain concentration field would be induced at the corners of 
solder joints due to their significant geometry/material change. In this study, the strain within a finite 
zone around the corner of the most critical solder joint in reliability is averaged by using a 
finite-volume-weighted averaging technique [12]. The averaged strain is then applied for further 
assessment of solder joint reliability. Fig. 12 shows an example of the corresponding Von Mises stress 
and equivalent plastic strain distributions in solder joints of the PP-WLCSP. The modeled solder joint 
fatigue life associated with these two WLCSP designs is shown in Table 3 also, in which it is 425 cycles 
for the PP-WLCSP and 225 cycles for the C-WLCSP. It is found that the prediction of numerical 
modeling correlates quite well with that of the experimental testing with the solution gap ranging from 
20~25%. Furthermore, FE modeling also indicates that the first possible failure would occur at the edge 
of the outmost solder joint and in the interface between the solder joint and the bonding copper pad at 
the die side. This is exactly the same site where the interface cracking takes place during the ATC testing. 
With the above evidences, the appropriateness of the proposed FE modeling as well as the applied 
empirical fatigue life correlation model is extensively confirmed.  
The FE modeling of the solder joint fatigue life of the CP-WLCSP, PP-WLCSP and DPS-WLCSP 
subjected to an ATC loading can then be performed. It is special to note that the thermal cycling loading 
in the numerical ATC testing is different from that of the experiment one, as mentioned previously. In 
the simulations, the polymer post height in the PP-WLCSP, the copper post height in the CP-WLCSP 
and the double-pad structure height in the DPS-WLCSP are all 40μm. The maximum averaged 
equivalent plastic strain range and the associated fatigue life are shown in Table 4. It is found that for 
these types of WLCSP, the maximum averaged equivalent plastic strain all occurs in the interface 
between the solder joint with the maximum DNP and the attached pad at the die side. This implies that 
the failure mechanism does not shift to other locations for these WLCSP designs. Besides, the location is 
exactly the same as the cracking site in the fatigued solder joint of the PP-WLCP and C-WLCSP under 
an experimental ATC testing, shown in Fig. 11. Table 4 also shows that under the same stress buffer 
layer thickness, the DPS-WLCSP is superior to both the PP-WLCSP and CP-WLCSP. It should be noted 
 8  
the investigation involves two sub-designs, each of which is composed of a different column diameter. 
The diameter of the copper columns associated with these two sub-design is 30μm and 60μm, 
respectively. The results are shown in Fig. 17. The fatigue life data are plotted with respect to the buffer 
layer height. It is found that the larger the copper columns, the less the solder joint reliability despite of 
the number of copper columns applied in the DPS. In addition, the effect of the design parameter 
becomes much more substantial as the number of copper columns or the buffer layer thickness increases. 
VI. CONCLUSIONS 
The study successfully, numerically investigates and compares the solder joint reliability of the 
conventional (C-WLCSP), the copper post (CP-WLCSP), the polymer post (PP-WLCSP), and the 
double-pad structure (DPS-WLCSP) design proposed by professor K.N. Chiang (National Tsing Hua 
University, Taiwan). A 3-D nonlinear FE modeling technique together with the modified Coffin-Manson 
relationship is employed in this study to numerically assess the solder joint reliability of these WLCSP 
under JEDEC thermal cycling specifications. The validity of the FE modeling is extensively confirmed 
through Twyman-Green interferometry measurement and an experimental ATC testing. The FE results 
show that the critical strain location associated with these four WLCSP designs is identical, and more 
importantly, coincides with the cracking site in the fatigued solder joint of the PP-WLCP under the 
experimental ATC testing. It is obvious that with an appropriate design of the DPS, the DPS-WLCSP 
can hold good structural compliance and thus, provide enhanced solder joint reliability. It is found that 
under the same stress buffer layer height, the new design could outperform other advanced WLCSP 
designs, such as the PP-WLCSP and CP-WLCSP packages. Even though the manufacturing cost of the 
new design would be slightly higher than the standard one, it is relative less expansive than some other 
advanced designs. In addition, unlike the limited stress buffer layer height in a conventional WLCSP 
design, the copper column height can be easily enhanced to achieve higher solder joint reliability. 
The modeled results show that as the buffer layer thickness goes beyond 75μm, the board level 
solder joint reliability of the DPS-WLCSP could pass the industry expectation of 1000 cycles of thermal 
cycling for computer applications, such as desktops, laptops and workstations. The parametric design of 
the DPS also shows that a less number of copper columns with a higher column height and a smaller 
cross-sectional area would provide better solder joint reliability, and the distributing layout of these 
copper columns presents a certain impact on the solder joint fatigue life as well. Based on the above 
evidence, it is concluded that the DPS-WLCSP provides a very promising, alternative solution for 
enhancing the solder joint reliability of WLCSP, and more importantly, is feasible and cost effective 
because of conforming to the standard WL manufacturing process.  
REFERENCES 
[1] P. Elenius, S. Barrett, and T. Goodman, “Ultra CSP wafer level package, ” Components and 
Packaging Technologies, IEEE Transactions, Volume: 23 Issue: 2, pp. 220-226, May 2000 
[2] Y. T. Lin, C. T. Peng, and K. N. Chiang, “Parametric Design and Reliability Analysis of Wire 
Interconnect Technology Wafer Level Packaging,” ASME Transaction, Journal of Electronic 
Packaging, Vol. 124, pp. 1-6, Sept. 2002. 
[3] T. Kawahara, “SuperCSP, ” Components and Packaging Technologies, IEEE Transactions, Vol. 23 
Issue: 2, pp. 215-219, May 2000. 
[4] P. Garrou, “Wafer Level Chip Scale Packaging (WL-CSP): An Overview,” IEEE Transactions on 
Advanced Packaging, Vol. 23, No.2, May, 2000. 
 10  
TABLES AND FIGURES 
Table 1: Material properties of the FEM models 
 Chip Copper Stress buffer 
layer 
(Polyimide)
Solder  
mask 
60Sn/40Pb 
Solder 
PCB 
Young’s 
modulus 
(GPa) 
131 68.9 Fig. 8(b) 3.45 Fig. 8(a) 18.2 
Poisson’s ratio 0.28 0.34 0.34 0.35 0.35 0.19 
CTE 
(ppm/0C) 2.62
 16.7 30 30 25 16 
CTE: coefficient of thermal expansion 
 
Table 2: Packaging dimensions of WLCSP 
Silicon Chip size (mm) 7.5×7.5×0.5 
Solder bump pitch (μm) 750 
PCB size (mm) 24×20×1.0 
Copper pad diameter (μm) Chip side = 280 
Substrate side = 320 
Copper pad thickness (μm) 20 
Ball diameter (μm) 400 
Stand-off height (μm) 283 
Polymer post diameter (μm) 280 
Copper post diameter (μm) 280 
Copper column diameter (μm) 30 
Thickness of electroplated copper layer in polymer 
post (μm) 
15 
Distance from the outer copper columns to the edge 
of pad (μm) 
70 
 
Table 3: The modeled and experimental solder joint fatigue life  
 C-WLCSP PP-WLCSP 
The experimental 
(N50/N63.2)  
179/200 352/392 
The modeled (N50) 225 425 
 
Table 4: The modeled plastic strain and the associated predicted solder joint fatigue life  
 CP-WLCSP PP-WLCSP DPS-WLCSP
Max. averaged 
equivalent plastic strain 
range 
3.29% 3.18% 2.81% 
Fatigue life 355 379 483 
 12  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Fujitsu’s SuperCSP (Source: Fujitsu) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Tessera’s WAVETM WLCSP (Source: Tessera) 
 
 
(c) IZM’s WLCSP (Source: IZM) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) FCT’s UltraCSP (Source: FCT) 
 
 
 14  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Silicon substrate 
Passivation layer Electrode 
Stress buffer layer 
Stress buffer layer 
UBM and Redistribution layer 
Copper columns and pads 
Solder mask 
Solder bumps 
(b)DPS-WLCSP 
Fig. 5 Fabrication process of the conventional WLCSP and DPS-WLCSP [24] 
 
        
                      (a) SDRAM           (b) The cross section of the bump and DPS with 
only one copper column (diameter: 60 um) 
 
Fig. 6 Fabrication of a 48-I/O DPS-WLCSP for a SDRAM application 
 16  
  
Fig. 9 An ATC test board 
-600 -400 -200 0 200 400 600 800 1000
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
D
is
tri
bu
tio
n 
Fu
nc
tio
n
 
 Experimental Data
 Weibull Distribution
Thermal Fatigue Life (Cycles)
 
Fig. 10 Cycles to failure data for solder joints in the PP-WLCSP 
 
 
Fig. 11 Cross section of the failure site in the PP-WLCSP 
 
 18  
