中英文摘要
摘要:現今 RFID 的技術被廣泛應用在許多不同的領域，包含倉儲管理以及適地性
服務 (location-based service)，所以 RFID 技術受到全球 IT 產業和電子製造
業的關注。許多手機製造商和電信業者相繼投入研究以將各類商務服務和 RFID
技術與手機系統進行有效之結合。然而，儘管 RFID 帶來龐大的生產力獲益，RFID
系統可能會引起個人或組織的安全及個人隱私的問題。 因此，如何保護 RFID
系統的安全與 RFID tag 擁有者的隱私是重要的一環。 不幸的是，目前仍未存在
一個完善的方案來防備竊聽者，竊聽者仍然可透過監測 RFID reader 與 tag 間的
通訊進而獲得 tag 的內容。為了與未來產業做接軌，所以我們提出一套新的 RFID
資料保護協定。在我們的研究中，我們提供兩種不同的 RFID backward channel
保護協定，分別稱為動態位元編碼及最佳化動態位元編碼。 我們的方法可以利
用有限的通訊負擔(communication overhead)達到高度的匿名。 我們多方面用
模擬來顯示所提供之兩個方法皆可以提供比現有技術更良好的 backward
channel 保護。 此外，我們也建立理論分析的模組並透過模擬之結果去比較和
驗證我們模組的正確性。
Abstract: Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technologies have been widely
used for a variety of applications, including a number of important location-based
services. As a result, RFID continues to attract attention from global IT and
Electronics Manufacturing industries. Many mobile phone and IT companies work
jointly to investigate the integration of RFID and cellular phones to provide various
e-commerce business services. Though bringing great productivity gains, RFID
systems may bring up new security and privacy threats to individuals or organizations.
Therefore, it is important to protect the sensitive data transmitted between RFID
systems (e.g., cellular phones with RFID tags and RFID readers) and the privacy of
RFID tag owners. Unfortunately, none of the existing solutions provides a complete
defense against eavesdroppers, who could monitor the communication between RFID
readers and tags and recover the contents of tags. To address this issue, we propose
two novel RFID backward channel protection protocols, namely dynamic bit
encoding and optimized dynamic bit encoding. Our schemes are able to achieve high
anonymity with limited communication overhead. Our extensive simulations show
that both proposed schemes provide much stronger backward channel protection than
existing techniques. In addition, analytical models were created and validated through
comparisons with simulation results.
I. INTRODUCTION
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) is an electronic tagging technology that
the original ID.
• We further improve the degree of security of DBE and design an Optimized
Dynamic Bit Encoding (ODBE) scheme by dynamically changing the
maximum codeword length for each source bit.
•  Analytical models of guessing atacks [13], anonymity against generated
encoded ID, and correlation attacks are created and validated.
•  We evaluate our proposed techniques through extensive simulations. The 
results show that our DBE and ODBE schemes provide a much more robust
backward channel protection than previous techniques with the same
communication overhead.
The rest of this report is organized as follows. Section 2 surveys the related work.
The DBE and ODBE schemes are introduced in Section 3. Analytical models are
provided in Section 4. The experimental validations of our protocols are presented in
Section 5. Section 6 concludes the report with a discussion of future work.
Fig. 1. Privacy masking
II. RELATED WORK
In this section we review RFID singulation protocols and previous work related to
our approach of RFID system backward channel protection.
A. RFID Singulation Protocols
In RFID systems, a reader has to recognize individual tag IDs in its reading region.
However, collisions may happen when several tags respond simultaneously to the
reader query. Therefore, we need anti-collision singulation schemes for a reader to
effectively identify tags in its proximity. Current singulation protocols can be roughly
categorized into Aloha scheme based protocols and tree-walking scheme based
protocols.
In Aloha based protocols [6], [15]–named after an early wireless network protocol
developed at the University of Hawaii –a reader sends a query frame and each tag
sends its real ID, it calculates ID ⊕K, where ⊕ is the XOR operation. The reader
decodes the cipher text with the key, and it successfully reads the tag without being
eavesdropped. This leads many studies to emphasize on secure key exchange and
distributions [5], [11], [14]. However, key-searching and key-updating operations are
usually expensive in large scale RFID systems. In this report, we focus on tag
authentication without a shared secret key between a reader and a tag. The most
related works to this report are reviewed in the following subsection.
C. Privacy Protection in RFID Singulation
Since every bit of every singulated tag is broadcast by the reader on the forward
channel, attackers could monitor these transmissions from a significant distance and
recover the contents of every tag. Weis [21] proposed two secure treewalking
protocols for protecting the forward channel from eavesdroppers. In the blinded tree
walking algorithm [22], when there is no collision in a certain bit position, instead of
specifying which portion of the tag population should proceed, readers send the query
signal for the next ID bit directly, hence not all the bits are transmitted on the forward
channel. In the randomized tree-walking algorithm, each tag has two IDs –a real one
and a pseudo-ID allocated by manufacturers or generated by the tag itself. Readers
singulate with pseudo-ID values and tags respond with their real IDs over the
backward channel.
Eavesdroppers may appear near an RFID tag and clandestinely listen on the
backward channel, i.e., the signals sent from a tag to a reader, which leads to privacy
threats. Choi and Roh [1] designed the privacy masking protocol to protect the
transmission of tag IDs by making the reader transmit a mask at the same time as the
tags transmit their data. As shown in Figure 1, collisions occur between the mask and
the response tag ID, and consequently eavesdroppers can only obtain IDs in which a
subset of bits are unidentifiable. Only when a mask has the same bit sequence as a tag
ID (the same bit problem), the real ID of the tag will be disclosed. Therefore, this
solution is able to protect tag identifiers from adversaries when a legitimate reader is
singulating tags. However, the mechanism does not provide any protection against
unauthorized readers which can also singulate tags.
Lim et al. [13] introduced a randomized bit encoding scheme (RBE) which is able
to alleviate the same bit problem of the technique in [1]. In RBE, each bit of a real tag
ID is encoded into an n-bit string and a tag sends its encoded ID to a reader under the
privacy masking protocol. Afterward the reader decodes each n-bit string. If the
Hamming weight of the n-bit string is even, the corresponding source bit is 0.
Otherwise the source bit is 1. By employing this method, even if some bits of the n-bit
string did not collide, it would be difficult for an attacker to recover the original ID.
Fig.3. The correlation attack of an encoded ID.
case the attackers achieve the lowest correct guess probability. When a bit is not
readable, the correct guess for the bit has a chance of 50%. Let l be the ID length and
lc be the number of unreadable bits. In the best case, l = lc and P = (1/2 )l. On the other
hand, when a mask has the same bit sequence as the ID or the encoded ID, the correct
guess probability is 100% (the same bit problem). Thus, we can derive (1/2)l≤P≤1.0.
In [1], the probability that each bit collides is 0.5. When a bit collides, the
probability that an attacker can identify the source bit is 0.5. On the other hand, if a bit
does not collide, the probability is 1. Therefore, the correct guess for the privacy
masking protocol without encoding is as follows.
1 1 1 3
{ 1 } ( )
2 2 2 4
l lP     (1)
For the randomized bit encoding (RBE) scheme [13], the probability that all bits in
a codeword do not collide with the mask bit string is 1/2n with the optimal n-bit
encoding. The probability that a bit is identifiable is 1/2n + (1–1/2n )*1/2. Therefore,
the correct guess probability of the RBE scheme is:
1 1 1
( ) { (1 ) } , ( 1)
2 2 2
l
n nP n     ｎ (2)
Both the privacy masking and RBE protocols provide protection for the backward
channel against guessing attacks to identify the original ID. However, after a number
of interrogation cycles, attackers can obtain the original ID from collected source
bits –this is called the correlation attack of encoded IDs (termed correlation attack
for the rest of this report). As demonstrated in Figure 3, an attacker is able to receive
encoded IDs by interrogating the tag repeatedly. The original ID ‘101’ can be 
identified by decoding the readable codewords of collided IDs received in all the
previous cycles. Unfortunately, the two aforementioned protocols are vulnerable to
the correlation attack (the analysis is provided in Section 4). To deal with the
suffer from encoded ID collisions.
Fig. 4. An example of DBE.
C. Examples of the Dynamic Bit Encoding Scheme
In this subsection, examples of DBE are presented. Consider Figure 4 where the
original tag ID is ‘1101’, l = 4, and Nmax = 3. A hash function, F(key) = key mod Nmax
+ 1 is used. The first bit b1 = 1 is encoded by 3 bits. Assume ‘111’ is chosen as the 
codeword of E(1, 3) and F(111) =7 mod 3 + 1 = 2. Thus, the second bit b2 = 1 is
encoded by 2 bits. Further following the encoding scheme, the encoding result could
be ‘11101001’. To make the length of the encodedID equal to C, extra random bits
are appended. The tag sends the encoded ID ‘111010010011’ to the reader with the 
privacy masking mechanism. Suppose the mask is ‘011001000101’,then an
eavesdropper receives ‘X110XX0X0XX1’ after thecollision. Since the first bit is
unrecoverable, the eavesdropper cannot identify any bit of the original ID.
The reader also receives the collided bit string. In contrast to the attacker, as the
reader has the knowledge of the mask, it can recover the encoded ID. From the
encoded ID, the reader obtains the original ID as follows. Because the reader knows
Nmax = 3 (i.e., n1 = 3), it can find E(b1, 3) = 111. Since theHamming weight of ‘111’ 
is odd, the reader obtains b1 = 1. By computing the hash function, the reader acquires
n2 =2. Because E(b2, 2) = 01, the reader derives b2 = 1. By repeating this process, the
reader can retrieve the original ID of the tag.
D. Optimized Dynamic Bit Encoding
To further improve the degree of security for RFID backward channel protection,
an Optimized Dynamic Bit Encoding (ODBE) scheme was designed based on DBE.
In ODBE, the value of Nmax is dynamically changed for each source bit. Let Ni be the
value of Nmax for the i-th bit. With a randomly generated value for n, the length of the
first codeword is decided by n1 = n. Then the length of the i-th codeword is randomly
E. Privacy Protection with CRC
Cyclic Redundancy Codes (CRC) are commonly used to correct unreadable bits
due to communication errors. With CRC, if some of the bits in a data frame are
corrupted, the whole frame can be recovered. The use of CRC improves the
performance and robustness of communications. However, bit error corrections may
lead to lower security. Backward channel protection with CRC has been extensively
studied in [2]. The numerical results show that the probability of successfully
eavesdropping increases when CRC is employed. Furthermore, CRC introduces extra
control and communication overhead. Therefore, we do not consider the application
of CRC in this report.
IV. PRIVACY PROTECTION ANALYSIS
In this section, analytical models of privacy protection are created for both DBE
and ODBE.
A. Correct Guess Probability
First we analyze the correct guess, which is the probability of an attacker to guess
the original ID. For the DBE scheme, the codeword length is among {1, 2, ...,Nmax}
and the average codeword length is defined by Equation 6.
Note that from Equation 6, DBE has a higher correct guess probability than RBE,
since the probability is higher than 1/2n when n = Nmax. However, DBE is less
vulnerable to the guessing attack because an attacker has to identify the (i−1)-th bit to
recover the i-th bit. If an attacker knows Nmax, the probability that exactly the first i
bits of the original ID are identifiable (denoted as pri) is:


max
max max max
1max
2 2
1
1 0
2
( )
1 1 1
1 1
2 2 2
N
ii
N N N
if i
pr N
if i

               
(7)
When i number of source bits are disclosed to the attacker, the remaining (l −i)
source bits can be guessed with a 50% chance of correctness for each bit. The correct
guess of the original ID when i source bits are identified can be denoted by:
m a x
1
( ) ( )
2
l i
ip r N
 (8)
Consequently, by combining Equations 7 and 8 the correct guess probability of the
original ID is:
lc = l. Therefore,
max 2 2
1 1
log ( ) log (2 )
2 2
l
l l
i
H l

   (13)
The degree of anonymity can be defined as:
max
( )H
H

(14)
Let Ø’be the possible ID set (|Ø’| = 2lc ), when lc number of source bits are not
readable. GivenØ’, the degree of anonymity for a generated encoded ID, denoted as
dØ’, is defined by:
Fig. 6. The correct guess probability for different schemes.
'
'
2
1 1 1
lo g ( )
2 2c c
c
l l
i
l
d
l l 
   (15)
For example, consider a bit string of ‘XX10X1X0’ received after the encoded ID 
collided with the mask. Clearly, l = 8 and lc = 4. Accordingly, dØ ‘= 0.5.
C. Correlation Attacks
To the best of our knowledge, no previous research has discussed correlation
attacks in RFID system backward channels. The analytical models of correlation
attack for our DBE and ODBE schemes as well as the privacy masking and RBE
techniques are presented here.
For the privacy masking protocol, the probability that a source bit does not collide
with the mask is 0.5. The number of bits which are identified after the t-th
interrogation cycle, denoted as R(t), is formalized by the following equations.
1
(1 )
2
R l  (16)
1
( 2 ) (1) ( (1 ) )
2
R R l R    (17)
We compare our analytical results with simulation results in the following section.
V. EXPERIMENTAL VALIDATION
To evaluate the performance of the proposed DBE and ODBE schemes, we
compared our techniques with no encoding and RBE [13] under a privacy masking [1]
environment. In this section, the simulation configurations, the simulation results, and
the comparisons between the simulation and analytical results are presented.
A. Simulation Configurations
In our simulation, the length of the original ID is set to be 96 bits as defined in EPC
Class1 Gen2 [6]. The value of n in RBE and ODBE as well as Nmax in DBE range
from 2 to 10. For the singulation protocol, the adaptive query splitting mechanism [16]
is used to identify 100 tags in the RFID system. For a given configuration, 1,000
simulations are conducted. In order to achieve a fair comparison, the value of n for
ODBE and RBE corresponds to Nmax used for DBE. Consequently, the
communication overhead for all protocols is exactly the same. Table II lists all of the
simulation parameters.
Parameter Value
Number of tags
Length of the original ID
Value of n and Nmax
Number of interrogation cycles
Number of simulations
100
96-bit
2 to 10
1 to 1000
1000
TABLE II
SIMULATION PARAMETERS.
B. Simulation Results
Figure 7 illustrates the degree of anonymity for generated encoded IDs as a
function of the value of n. As the value of n increases, the degree of anonymity
increases for all protocols DBE, ODBE and RBE. Even when the value of n is small,
DBE and ODBE achieve very high anonymity compared with RBE. For example, for
n = 2, the anonymity of DBE and ODBE already reaches 0.99. These results clearly
illustrate that our DBE and ODBE schemes achieve a stronger protection than RBE.
Figure 8 displays the time that an attacker needs to crack a tag ID as a function of
the value of n. Attackers accumulate readable bits across interrogation cycles and
when all bits of an encoded ID are identified, the original ID is disclosed. As we can
see in Figure 8, for all protocols except the no encoding scheme (privacy masking), a
longer time is required to crack an ID as the value of n increases. ODBE always
requires more time than the other protocols. For DBE, when n is less than 7, it
Fig.7. Anonymity. Fig.8. Time to crack IDs.
Fig. 9. Communication overhead Fig.10. Anonymity for correlation attack n=3.
Fig.11. Anonymity for correlation attack n=5. Fig.12. Anonymity for correlation attack n=7.
Fig.13.Anonymity Fig.14.Anonymity of DBE for correlation attack.
Appl., 30(4):561–576, 2006.
[4] C. Diaz, S. Seys, J. Claessens, and B. Preneel. Towards Measuring Anonymity. In
Privacy Enhancing Technologies Workshop (PET), 2002.
[5] T. Dimitriou. A Secure and Efficient RFID Protocol that could make Big Brother
(partially) Obsolete. In PerCom, pages 269–275, 2006.
[6] EPCglobal. EPC Radio-Frequency Identity Protocols Class-1Generation-2 UHF
RFID Protocol for Communications at 860MHz-960MHz version 1.0.9.
[7] S. L. Garfinkel, A. Juels, and R. Pappu. RFID Privacy: An Overview of Problems
and Proposed Solutions. IEEE Security & Privacy, 3(3):34–43, 2005.
[8] R. Jain, J. Radhakrishnan, and P. Sen. Privacy and Interaction in Quantum
Communication Complexity and a Theorem about the Relative Entropy of Quantum
States. In IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS), pages
429–438, 2002.
[9] A. Juels. Minimalist Cryptography for Low-Cost RFID Tags. In International
Conference on Security in Communication Networks (SCN), pages 149–164, 2004.
[10] A. Juels. RFID Security and Privacy: A Research Survey. IEEE Journal on
Selected Areas in Communications, 24(2):381–394, 2006.
[11] A. Juels, R. Pappu, and B. Parno. Unidirectional Key Distribution Across Time
and Space with Applications to RFID Security. In USENIX Security Symposium,
pages 75–90, 2008.
[12] Y. Li and X. Ding. Protecting RFID Communications in Supply Chains. In ACM
Symposium on Information, Computer and Communications Security (ASIACCS),
pages 234–241, 2007.
[13] T.-L. Lim, T. Li, and S.-L. Yeo. Randomized Bit Encoding for Stronger
Backward Channel Protection in RFID Systems. In IEEE International Conference on
Pervasive Computing and Communicaitons (PerCom), pages 40–49, 2008.
[14] L. Lu, J. Han, L. Hu, Y. Liu, and L. M. Ni. Dynamic Key-Updating:
Privacy-Preserving Authentication for RFID Systems. In PerCom, pages 13–22, 2007.
[15] R. Metcalfe and D. Boggs. Ethernet: Distributed Packet Switching for Local
Computer Networks. Commun. ACM, 19(7):395–404, 1976.
[16] J. Myung, W. Lee, J. Srivastava, and T. K. Shih. Tag-Splitting: Adaptive
Collision Arbitration Protocols for RFID Tag Identification. IEEE Trans. Parallel
Distrib. Syst., 18(6):763–775, 2007.
[17] B. L. D. Santos and L. S. Smith. RFID in the Supply Chain: Panacea or
Pandora’s Box? Commun. ACM, 51(10):127–131, 2008.
[18] S. E. Sarma, S. A. Weis, and D. W. Engels. RFID Systems and Security and
Privacy Implications. In Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems, pages
454–469, 2002.
