 
中文摘要： 
本實驗室成功的利用兩段式活性自由基與活性開環聚合，合成具有掌性分子（chiral 
molecules ） 之 掌 性 雙 團 聯 共 聚 物 ， 聚 苯 乙 烯 與 聚 左 旋 乳 酸 雙 團 聯 共 聚 物 
(poly(styrene)-b-poly(L-lactide),PS-PLLA)，並發現此雙團聯共聚物經由結晶過程時，將可自
組裝(self-assembly)形成一環狀球晶。目前推論此環狀球晶的形成與掌性分子 PLLA 之特性
及非結晶性 PS 鏈段的存在具有相當之關連性，為了更深入探討分子掌性效應對於團聯共聚 
物形成環狀球晶之起因，本研究製備一系列不同之高分子，藉由混摻之策略，我們利用混
摻 PS-PLLA/PDLA 的方式探討掌性效應(chiral effect)對於環狀球晶造成之影響，此外，藉
由混摻 PLLA/PCL 的方式探討稀釋物效應(diluent effect)在此系統中所扮演之角色，進而瞭
解掌性高分子團聯共聚物結晶形態的特性與環狀球晶形成之原因，特別是針對扭曲層板之
形成因素進行探討。藉由有系統的研究分析，完整探討掌性於結晶行為中扮演之角色，並
釐清掌性性質於自組裝過程中複製與傳遞機制。本實驗即針對具掌性之高分子團聯共聚合
物探討其自組裝與結晶行為所形成之超分子結構與形態，瞭解掌性自分子層級對最終自組
裝形態的影響，特別是環狀球晶的形成之原因的探討分析。 
關鍵詞：掌性、環狀球晶、結晶、自組裝、高分子團聯共聚物、層級超分子 
 
Abstract: 
In this study, thin-film samples of semi-crystalline block copolymer, polystyrene-b-poly(L-lactide) 
(PS-PLLA) with fPLLAv=0.65, were prepared by solution casting in dichloromethane (CH2Cl2 
1wt%). As evidenced by polarized light microscopy (PLM), banded crystalline spherulites can be 
found in melt-crystallized spherulites of the thin-film samples. By contrast, at similar 
crystallization condition, the crystalline PLLA homopoymer appeared typical spherulitic 
morphology without banded texture. However, the formation of PLLA banded spherulites can be 
obtained by introducing miscible poly(ε-caprolactone) (PCL) for blending; this is referred to the 
effect of diluents. Also, blends of PS-PLLA and poly(D-lactide) (PDLA) were prepared and no 
banded spherulites can be obtained. As a result, we suggest that the formation of banded 
spherulitic texture in the PS-PLLA block copolymer is attributed to the chiral effect of PLLA 
block in the presence of chemically joined PS block that is similar to the introduction of miscible 
polymer diluents for PLLA crystallization. The morphological evolution of the banded spherulites 
was further investigated by using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and field-emission 
scanning electron microscopy (FESEM). The morphological observation indicates that the 
formation of PS-PLLA banded spherulites is attributed to the chiral effect on crystalline folding 
that causes the formation of curved crystalline lamellae due to the imbalanced stress at the 
crystalline lamellar surface, and the effect is enhanced by the presence of diluent effect. 
Keywords: chirality, banded spherulites, crystallization, self-assembly, block copolymer, 
hierarchical superstructures 
1. Introduction and Objectives 
A block copolymer consists of two or more polymeric chains, which are chemically 
different by covalently linking dissimilar polymer chains. In the melt, the immiscibility of the 
blocks results in microphase separation of the components; the size and type of the microdomains 
depend on the molecular weights and volume fractions of each block. In the 
crystalline-amorphous block copolymer systems where one of the blocks can crystallize and the 
other is non-crystallizable, there are three factors that determine the final phase and crystalline 
morphology of these block copolymers, i.e., the microphase separation of a block copolymer (the 
order-disorder transition temperature, TODT), the crystallization of the crystallizable blocks (the 
crystallization temperature, Tc), and the vitrification of the amorphous blocks (the glass transition 
temperature, Tg). Therefore, morphologies resulting from these processes can be understood by 
the relative positions of these temperatures. When Tc>TODT, unconfined crystallization occurs 
from a disordered phase as in the case of Tc>TODT>>Tga whereas unconfined crystallization may 
take place from an ordered phase when the TODT>Tc>>Tga. If TODT>Tga>Tc, the crystallization is 
confined within the existing ordered phase due to the rapid vitrification of the amorphous. 
Although in some cases Tc>Tga, partially confined crystallization may also occur in strongly 
segregated crystalline-amorphous block copolymers, in which the TODT is much higher than the 
Tc and Tga.1-6 This may be attributed to a strong microphase separation between the two 
immiscible blocks, and only local segmental rearrangements occur when relatively rapid 
crystallization takes place. 
The morphology of banded spherulites, i.e., the presence of radially periodic structure 
attributed to lamellar twisting about radii that usually results in concentric rings or bands of 
extinction in PLM, is common morphological feature in crystalline polymers.7-10 It is generally 
believed that the formation mechanism of the banded spherulite is attributed to lamellar twisting 
about the direction of radial growth.11-16 Imbalanced stress at lamellar surface is usually regarded 
as the driving force of lamellar twisting. So far, the mechanisms of lamellar twisting within 
spherulite are referred to two models which have been reported to explain the driving force for 
twisting. They are interlamellar17-20 and intralamellar origins.11-13,21-24 The interlamellar model 
was originally suggested by Schultz and Kinloch,17 and then personalized by Bassett and 
co-workers.18-20 Periodic spaced lamellar twisting in spherulites results from equally spaced 
screw dislocations along the radial growth direction of the lamellae so as to cause twisting of 
molecular stems at the lamellar level. The overall twisting to the radially growing lamellae is thus 
initiated by this sequence of transverse screw dislocation with the same sign so that the banding 
extinction pattern is observed under PLM. The intralamellar model was initially proposed by 
Keller,21 and has been developed by Keith and Padden.12-13,22 These regularly twisted molecular 
stems are cooperatively accommodated in continuously twisted helical lamellae without the 
presence of screw dislocations. The lamellar twisting is attributed mainly to the influence of the 
surface stresses resulting form the asymmetry of lamellar geometry. The fold staggering might 
cause the chain stems to be non-orthogonal to the fold surfaces so as to generate unequal stresses 
1 
1.67 (d,3H, -CHCl(CH3)); 0.92(s,6H,-C(CH3)2-). 
(2). Bulk ATRP of St initiated by DHI4-Cl/CuBr/HMTETA. Hydroxyl-terminated polystyrene, 
PS-OH, was prepared by the bulk ATRP of St with DHI4-Cl as an initiator, CuBr/HMTETA as the 
catalyst/ligand. In a typical ATRP experiment, the DHI4-Cl (47 mg, 0.20 mmol), CuBr (29 mg, 
0.20 mmol), HMTETA (46 mg, 0.20 mmol), 4.16 g of St (40.0 mmol) and 2 ml of toluene were 
introduced into a previously dried Schlenck flask in glovebox, and the system was degassed with 
three freeze–pump–thaw cycles. The polymerization tube was sealed under vacuum, and placed 
into an oil bath at 110 oC with stirring. After polymerization for 17 h, the mixture was cooled 
down to room temperature, and the flask was opened. The mixture was diluted by THF and 
passed through a short column of neutral alumina to remove the metal salt. After precipitation by 
adding polymer solution in THF into methanol, the PS-OH was collected by filtration and dried 
under vacuum at 40 oC overnight. The molecular weight (Mn) and its distribution (Mw/Mn) of 
PS-OH were determined by GPC. Mn(GPC) = 6000 g/mol, PDI = 1.29. 1H NMR (CDCl3): 
6.46-7.09 (br, 5H, ArH), 1.84 (br, 1H, CH), 1.42 (br, 2H, CH2). 
(3). Synthesis of block copolymer, polystyrene-b-poly(L-lactide) (PS-PLLA). The block 
copolymer was synthesized using PS capped with hydroxyl group, PS-OH as the macroinitiator, 
and Sn(Oct)2 as an catalyst. The typical ring-opening polymerization procedure is as follows. In 
glovebox, 0.6 g of PS-OH (0.1 mmol), L-LA (15 mmol, 2.16 g), Sn(Oct)2 (8 mg), and 1.8 ml dry 
toluene were added into a 50 ml dry glass flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer. The flask was 
put into an oil bath at 110 oC with stirring for 3.5 h, and then cooled down to room temperature 
rapidly. The polymers formed were then dissolved in CH2Cl2 (30 ml), and the block copolymers 
were recovered by precipitation into MeOH (200 ml) and then dried in vacuo at room 
temperature overnight. Yield: 1.91 g (88 %). The molecular weight distribution (Mw/Mn) of 
PSm-PLLAn was determined by GPC and the numbers of L-LA repeating units (n) vs St repeating 
the units (m) were determined by 1H NMR analysis. For this case, the length of the PS block was 
held constant (Mn = 6000 g/mol, Mw/Mn = 1.29), while the degree of polymerization of the 
PLLA block was varied as 96.5 (Mn(NMR) = 13900 g/mol), Mn(GPC) = 19900 g/mol, PDI = 
1.17. 1H NMR (CDCl3): 6.46-7.09 (br, 5H, ArH), 5.16 (q, 1H, CH(CH3), J = 7.2 Hz), 1.84 (br, 1H, 
CH), 1.58 (d, 3H, CH(CH3), J = 7.2 Hz), 1.42 (br, 2H, CH2). The volume fraction of PLLA was 
calculated as 0.65 by assuming densities of PS and PLLA are 1.02 and 1.18 g/cm3. 
(4). Ring-opening polymerization of PLLA and PDLA homopolymers. Ring-opening 
polymerization of the lactide was performed in bulk using Sn(Oct)2 and benzyl alcohol (BnOH) 
as polymerization catalyst and initiator. The typical ring-opening polymerization procedure is as 
follows. In glove box, into a 50 ml dry glass flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer, 0.2 mmol of 
initiator (BnOH), L-LA or D-LA (20 mmol, 2.88 g), Sn(Oct)2 (8 mg) were added. The flask was 
put into an oil bath at 110 oC with stirring for 3 h, and then cooled down to room temperature 
rapidly. The polymers formed were then dissolved in CH2Cl2 (30 ml) and the block copolymers 
were recovered by precipitation into MeOH (200 ml) and dried in vacuo at room temperature 
overnight. The degree of polymerization of the PLLA was varied as 89 (Mn(NMR) = 12800 
g/mol), PDI = 1.03, and degree of polymerization of the PDLA was 82 (Mn(NMR) = 11800 
g/mol), PDI = 1.06. 
(5). Synthesis of homopolymer, poly(ε-caprolactone) (PCL). A typical polymerization procedure 
3 
processor. A Carl-Zeiss Axiphot 2 equipped with a Mettler FP82 hot stage and a FP80 central 
processor was used. Both of them were carefully alignment before used, and then were utilized to 
observe the thermal transitions and to analyze the optical textures. The hot stage was calibrated 
with standard materials within the precision of ±0.2oC. The micrographs were held isothermally 
at the temperature where the transition was observed by DSC and WAXD experiments. 
(2) Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) 
TEM experiments were carried out in JEOL JEM-1200CXII at an accelerating voltage of 120 kV. 
Bright field transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images were obtained using the 
mass-thickness contrast from staining and shadowing. Staining was accomplished by exposing 
the samples to the vapor of a 4% aqueous RuO4 solution for 3 hours and the locations with 
unsaturated bonds were bonding with RuO4 to increase the mass-thickness contrast. Shadowing 
has proven useful in contrast enhancement by the addition of heavy metal in a vacuum evaporator. 
The samples of carbon films were floated on water first and supported by a 400 mesh Cu grid that 
must be fitted into the specimen holder of the microscope, and then shadowed by Pt/Pb=4/1 30o 
tilted to the surface. 
(3) Field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) 
FESEM observation was performed on a JEOL JSM-6700F using accelerating voltages of 1.5keV. 
The crystalline lamellae of PS-PLLA thin-film samples were examined after hydrolysis. The 
samples were mounted to brass shims using carbon adhesive, and then sputter-coated with 2-3 nm 
of platinum (the platinum coating thickness was estimated from a calculated deposition rate and 
experimental deposition time). 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
 
3.1 Banded spherulitic texture of PS-PLLA. As observed by PLM (Figure 1), the 
crystallization of PLLA in PLLA-rich PS-PLLA gives rise to typical polymeric crystalline 
textures (namely, spherulitic texture). Also, interesting spherulitic morphology, spherulites with 
banded texture, can be identified for crystallized PLLA-rich PS-PLLA at different crystallization 
temperatures whereas typical spherulites were found in PLLA homopolymers having similar 
molecular weight with the PLLA block in PS-PLLA (Figures 1a-1c). As expected, the nucleation 
density of these spherulites increases with the decrease of crystallization temperature so as to 
lower the size of the spherulites. Also, both samples exhibit Maltese cross textures along with 
vibrational directions of polarizer and analyzer and appeared as negative birefringence (i.e., the 
first and third quadrants of spherulite appear yellow but the second and fourth quadrants appear 
blue) with birefringence enhancement of a gypsum plate. Extinction takes place when the 
direction of rotative optical axis (i.e., the direction of molecular chains) is parallel to the 
transmitted light of PLM. It is commonly believed that the periodic extinction patterns in banded 
spherulite can be considered as lamellar twisting which spiraling uniformly along radii during 
crystal growth. As mentioned, the mechanisms of lamellar twisting within spherulite are in 
majority referred to two models: interlamellar and intralamellar model. In addition to above 
mention: formation of screw dislocations or imbalanced surface stresses, the lamellar twisting is 
also attributed to the effect of chirality on crystallization of chiral polymers. Thus, we speculate  
5 
sphertlites in PS-PLLA block copolymer, PLLA/PDLA/PCL blending experiments were also 
carried out to examine the effective factors for the cause of PLLA crystalline lamellar twisting. 
At first, PLLA/PDLA blend weight ratio was 1:1 to formed stereocomplex in order to eliminate 
chiral effect of polylactides. As shown in Figure 4a-d, non-banded spherulitic texture is found at 
different crystallization temperatures. In our results, the formed non-banded texture spherulites of 
PLLA/PDLA blending system are similar to the Tsuji’s results.34-35 Tsuji and co-workers carried 
out detailed study in the formation mechanism and behavior of poly(lactide) stereocomplexes. As 
found, when both L-chains and D-chains are present in a system, they have a peculiarly strong 
interaction as compared with that between identical configurations. Therefore, L- and D-chains 
are packed side by side to formed stereocomplex crystallites (or racemic crystallites). We 
speculate that the chiral effect on the crystallization will be deteriorated due to the cause of 
racemic character. Also, the crystalline structure of the stereocomplex has been found to be 
significantly different to the neat PLLA and PDLA homopolymers, i.e., PLLA or PDLA 
crystallize in a stable form with an orthorhombic and the stereocomplex of PLLA and PDLA 
crystallizes in a triclinic unit cell.36-37 This may lead to a hypothesis that the molecular 
dispositions of chain packing for poly(lactide) polymeric crystals is critical for the formation of 
banded spherulites (see below for details). As shown in Figure 5a-d, no banded spherulites can be 
observed for the whole crystallization temperature window in the blending system of 
PLLA/PDLA and PCL homopolymer. In other words, only the presence of diluents may not be 
able to cause lamellar twisting during crystallization of polylactides; suggesting that the 
combination with chiral effect on crystalline asymmetry and the effect of diluents is necessary to 
induce lamellar twisting during crystallization process. The banded texture spherulites can only 
be observed in the PS-PLLA block copolymer and the PLLA/PCL blending system. 
 
3.4 Crystalline lamellar morphology in spherulites. In order to further examine crystalline 
lamellar morphology, PS-PLLA thin-film samples were also observed by TEM (Figure 6). As 
shown, these crystalline lamellae spirally grow from the center of spherulites and exhibit slightly 
wavy-like crystalline lamellar morphology. The formation of wavy-like morphology is attributed 
to the crystalline lamellar twisting that generates alternating flat-to-edge-on morphology. Similar 
results can also be found in the banded spherulites of poly(trimethylene terephthalate) as 
observed in our laboratory previously.8 Because of the degradable property of PLLA, the 
constituted PLLA component might be selectively degraded by hydrolytic treatment. Considering 
the participation of the amorphous PS block in the crystalline PS-PLLA, hydrolyzed PS-PLLA 
thin-film samples were examined by TEM (Figure 7a) and FESEM (Figure 7b) observations so as 
to observe the true growth profile of PLLA crystals. According to the degradation mechanism, the 
amorphous PLLA portions can be degenerated by using NaOH(aq) whereas the PLLA crystalline 
lamellar portions remain due to the selectively of degradation process. Meanwhile, the connected 
amorphous PS block can also be removed with the hydrolyzed PLLA portions. As shown in 
Figure 7a, the TEM observation after hydrolysis exhibits regular variation in height and the 
periodic length of the topographic variation is consistent to the regular pitch length of banded 
texture observed by PLM; reflecting that the formation of flat-to-edge-on morphology from the 
lamellar twisting mechanism. Consistently, the FESEM morphology after hydrolysis also exhibit  
7 
of chirality. Similar results have been observed in the equimolar blends of optically pure 
poly(R-epichlorohydrin) (PRECH) and poly(S-epichlorohydrin) (PSECH) by Brown and 
co-workers.24 Namely, the crystalline polylactides in those blends are lack of the primary 
imbalanced surface stress at the chain folding surface to drive the crystalline lamellar twisting 
even with the amplified factor. By contrast, crystallization of PLLA homopolymer may give rise 
to the formation of banded spherulites only if under specific crystallization conditions but the 
introduction of diluents, such as compatible PCL homopolymer for blending and chemically 
connected PS block with PLLA block, promote the formation of banded spherulites at regular 
crystallization condition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
(30) Ho, R. -M.; Chen, C. -K.; Chiang, Y. -W.; Ko, B. -T.; Lin, C. -C. Adv. Mater. 2006, 18, 
2355-2358. 
(31) Zalusky, A. S.; Olayo-Valles, R.; Taylor, C. J.; Hillmyer, M. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 
1519-1520. 
(32) Ho, R. -M.; Tseng, W. -H.; Fan, H. -W.; Chiang, Y. -W.; Lin, C. -C.; Ko, B. -T.; Huang, B. -H. 
Polymer 2005, 46, 9362-9377. 
(33) Zalusky, A. S.; Olayo-Valles, R.; Wolf, J. H.; Hillmyer, M. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 
12761-12773. 
(34) Tsuji, H.; Tezuka, Y. Biomacromolecules 2004, 5, 1181-1186. 
(35) Tsuji, H.; Ikada, Y. Macromolecules 1993, 26, 6918-6926. 
(36) Okihara, T.; Tsuji, M.; Kawaguchi, A.; Katayama, K.; Tsuji, H.; Hyon, S. -H.; Ikada, Y. J. 
Macromol. Sci-Phys. 1991, B30, 119-140. 
(37) Cartier, L.; Okihara, T.; Lotz, B. Macromolecules 1997, 30, 6313-6322. 
(38) Maillard, D.; Prud’homme, R. E.; Macromolecules 2006, 39, 4272-4275. 
(39) Keith, H. D.; Padden, F. J. Macromolecules 1996, 29, 7776-7786. 
(40) Lovinger, A. J.; Keith. H. D. Macromolecules 1996, 29, 8541-8542. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
 Figure 3. PLM morphologies of stereocomplex spherulites in the blends of PS-PLLA and PDLA 
(the blending ratio on weights of PLLA and PDLA is 1:1) crystallized from the melt at different 
temperatures: (a) 130oC; (b) 140oC; (c) 150oC ; (d) 160oC. 
 
 
 
Figure 4. PLM morphologies of stereocomplex spherulites in the blends of PLLA and PDLA (the 
blending ratio on weights of PLLA and PDLA weight is 1:1) crystallized from the melt at 
different crystallization temperatures: (a) 130oC; (b) 140oC; (c) 150oC ; (d) 160oC. 
 
 
13 
 
Figure 7. (a) TEM and (b) FESEM micrographs of PS-PLLA banded spherulites crystallized 
from the melt at 120 oC. The samples were hydrolyzed first, and then shadowed by platinum and 
sputtered with gold, respectively. 
 
 
 
Figure 8. TEM micrographs of crystalline lamellar morphology crystallized from the melt at 120 
oC: (a) PLLA homopolymer; (b) PS-PLLA block copolymer. The samples were hydrolyzed first 
and then shadowed by platinum. 
 
 
 
 
 
15 
