  2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
共平面波導饋入式超寬頻(UWB)單極天線設計 
Design of Ultra-wideband (UWB) Coplanar Waveguide (CPW)-fed  
Monopole Antenna 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-150-009- 
執行期限：94年8月1日至95年8月31日 
主持人：劉文忠 國立虎尾科技大學 飛機工程系 
共同主持人：吳昭明 國立虎尾科技大學 飛機工程系 
計畫參與人員：高鈵騏、許慶峰、劉鴻鈞 碩士班研究生 
                        國立虎尾科技大學 光電與材料科技研究所 
 
中文摘要 
本研究計畫執行結果提出了一個具超寬
頻操作功能之共面波導饋入式單介質三角形
平面單極天線設計。所提出天線設計具非常
小尺寸。其外形大小包含兩面角落鑿缺口的
接地面緊僅為 24 公釐(寬)×31 公釐(高)。天
線量測所得之-10 dB 阻抗匹配頻寬達 9.8 
GHz (3.05~13 GHz)。此一可操作頻段涵蓋無
線個人區域網路(WPAN)使用時所需之頻段。
除此，所提出之天線亦具良好之輻射特性包括
類似單極天線的輻射場型及約大於 2 dBi 的天線
增亦。此一設計具實用性，可提供實際應用及
產業界日後開發相關產品之技術需求。 
 
關鍵詞：共平面波導入、單極天線、 
        超寬頻 
 
Abstract 
    A novel ultra-wideband design of a 
single-layer coplanar waveguide (CPW)-fed 
planar monopole antenna is proposed. The 
proposed antenna, with, including the two 
notched ground planes, only 24 mm in width 
and 31 mm in height, experimentally 
reaches a measured –10 dB impedance 
bandwidth of 9.9 GHz (from 3.1 to 13 GHz) 
covering the WPAN standard. And, good 
monopole-like radiation patterns and 
antenna gains are also obtained.  
The proposed antenna design is 
practical and is suitable for application in 
wireless communication.  
 
Keywords: CPW- fed, monopole antenna, 
                   ultra-wideband 
 
1. Introduction 
     Recently, interest of ultra-wideband 
(UWB) communication systems such as the 
new wireless personal area network (WPAN) 
covering from 3.1 to 10.6 GHz has rapidly 
increased due to their many advantages 
including the low-spectral-density radiated 
power and potential for accommodating 
  4
3. Results and Discussions 
    The optimal geometrical parameters of 
the proposed antenna are obtained as shown 
in Fig. 1 with each notch of L=4 mm and 
W=1.25 mm. This proposed antenna was 
constructed and studied. Fig. 2 shows the 
measured and simulated return loss against 
frequency for the proposed design. It is 
clearly seen that the measured return loss 
reasonably agrees with the simulated results. 
The proposed antenna provides a 
sufficiently wide impedance bandwidth (10 
dB return loss) of 9.9 GHz (3.1-13 GHz) for 
UWB communication systems. To 
investigate effects of notch size on 
bandwidth performance, the simulated result 
of return loss of the corresponding antenna 
with a small notch, L=1 mm and W=1.25 
mm, is also depicted in Fig. 2. It is found 
that, the impedance matching is obviously 
degraded.  
    Fig.s 3-5 plot the measured far-field 
radiation patterns at two different 
frequencies of 3.2 , 5 and 8 GHz for the 
proposed antenna. The results show that the 
patterns are stable and monopole-like for 
operating at the three frequencies. It is also 
seen that the patterns in the horizontal plane 
(xy-plane) are both nearly omnidirectional, 
and those in the vertical planes (xz- and yz-
planes), as expected, are in linear 
polarization and in symmetry with respect to 
the antenna axis (θ=0°) since the antenna’s 
structure is in symmetry. Also note that the 
similar patterns have been obtained for other 
frequencies across the band. Fig. 6 shows 
the simulated and measured antenna gains 
for frequencies from 3 to 8.5 GHz. The 
measured antenna gains are about 1.6-5.7 
dBi with the maximum gain discrepancy of 
1.4 dBi between the simulated and measured 
gains.  
4. Conclusions 
    Ultra-wideband operation of a new CPW-
fed triangular monopole antenna with 
experimental and numerical results has been 
presented. By properly embedding a 
rectangular notch to each ground plane, 
enhancement of impedance bandwidth and 
compactness on antenna size have been 
achieved, and good antenna radiation 
performance of operating frequencies across 
the band has also be obtained.  
 
References 
1 S.H. Choi, J.K. Park, S.K. Kim, and J.Y.     
Park, A new ultra-wideband antenna for 
UWB applications, Microwave Opt 
Technol Lett 40 (2004), 399-401. 
2 C. Ying and Y.P. Zhang, Integration of 
ultra-wideband slot antenna on LTCC 
substrate, Electron. Lett 40 (2004), 645-
646.  
3 F. Fortino, G. Kossiavas, J.Y. Dauvignac, 
and R. Staraj, Novel antennas for ultra-
wideband communications, Microwave 
Opt Technol Lett 41 (2004), 166-169. 
