roughness during rough superfinishing is proposed. Finally, this surface finish formula is applied to 
enhance process efficiency and control workpiece surface quality. 
  
2. Experimental procedure 
A parametric study of evolution of superfinished surface topography was conducted on a 
production-type superfinishing machine (Seibu Type AN-10) with a stone oscillation amplitude of 
0.5 mm. Fig. 1 shows the machining configuration of the cylindrical superfinishing process. The 
workpiece was mounted on the tailstock of a superfinishing machine and, then, pressed against the 
rotating spindle of the headstock by a pneumatic mechanism. The rotation speed of the spindle can 
be varied up to 3600 r/min (rpm). An abrasive stone was mounted on a 3-component, piezoelectric 
force transducer and oscillated against the outer cylindrical surface of the steel specimen at 
frequencies of up to 2500 cycles/min (cpm). More details of the test rig are given elsewhere [8,9]. 
Fig.1. Machining configuration of the cylindrical superfinishing process. 
 
The workpiece material for this study is the case-hardened AISI 8119 steel with about 0.8 mm 
hardened depth, which is heat-treated to a Rockwell C hardness of 58--62 HRC. The geometry of 
as-ground workpiece is a cylindrical tube with 31 mm o.d., 19 mm i.d. and 15 mm length. Further, a 
small step, 1 mm long and 0.05 mm deep, was machined onto its one end. For each test condition, 
three workpieces were used to estimate the variability of surface roughness. 
The superfinishing stones used in this study are fused white 600-grit aluminum oxide stones in 
a vitreous bond with wax treatment. Each new stone has a rectangular cross-section, 14.6 mm in 
width (axial direction) and 7 mm in thickness (circumferential direction), corresponding to an area 
of 102.2 mm2. Thus, the stone maintains contact with the entire width of the workpiece throughout 
processing. Prior to testing, each new stone was dressed on the superfinishing machine to bring its 
working surface into conformity with the cylindrical specimen by pressing it against the specimen 
surface at a contact pressure of 0.8 MPa, stone oscillation frequency of 2300 cycles/min, and 
workpiece rotation speed of 700 r/min. The contact pressure reported in this paper is estimated as 
the ratio of applied normal force to stone area, where the applied normal force is measured by the 
piezoelectric force transducer [8,10]. A straight mineral seal oil was applied during superfinishing 
and a fine filter paper (10μm) was used to remove the debris before recirculating the fluid. 
After each experiment, the surface finish of the workpiece was measured using a Form 
Talysurf 50 with a cut-off of 0.8 mm and ISO 2CR filtering. The tip radius of the diamond stylus is 
2μm. The surface microprofile on each specimen was taken along the axial direction over a 
sampling length of 9.6 mm and at six equally spaced circumferential locations. Thus, eighteen 
surface microprofiles were evaluated for each test condition to obtain the surface roughness 
parameters including Ra(arithmetic average roughness), Rq (root-mean-square roughness) and Rz 
(average peak-to-valley roughness). It should be noted that each data point and curve shown in the 
 2
surface will be much smoother [8]. 
Fig.3. Variation in surface roughness Ra with machining time at different rotational speeds. 
 
Fig. 4 shows the effect of contact pressure on the evolution of surface roughness, Ra, for 
superfinishing of 8119 steel with an aluminum oxide stone. The experiments were conducted at nw= 
700 r/min, fs= 2300 cycles/min and Rai = 0.990 ±0.081μm. All experimental surface roughness 
data in Fig. 4 can be approximately described by a single curve for pressures ranging from 0.4 to 
0.9 MPa. It is interesting to note that this contact pressure range corresponds to the rough 
superfinishing regime [9]. This suggests that the evolution of surface roughness, Ra, is insensitive to 
the contact pressure for rough superfinishing. This insensitivity is a consequence of the fact that the 
material removal rate (MRR) in the transient regime is found to be fairly flat over a wide range of 
contact pressure [12]. Furthermore, the contact pressure has no effect on the steady state roughness, 
as expected. Note that the critical contact pressure, above which the contact pressure was observed 
to have no effect on surface roughness, in this case is about 0.4 MPa for 8119 steel. 
Fig. 4. Variation in surface roughness Ra with machining time at different contact pressures. 
 
4. Discussion 
Analysis of experimental surface roughness data for external cylindrical superfinishing of 
 4
 
5. Conclusions 
 
A parametric study on evolution of finished surface topography has been performed for 
cylindrical superfinishing of hardened steels. Through this experimental work, typical 
characteristics of the superfinishing process have been observed and summarized as: 
(1) The superfinished surface has an inherent surface texture with a characteristic surface 
roughness which only depends on the stone type in rough superfinishing. 
(2) The transient surface roughness of workpiece during rough superfinishing can be described 
well by an exponential relationship of the form given by Eq.(1) and the contact pressure has no 
effect on this exponential form. 
Further analysis indicates that optimal performance with higher MRR, fairly fine surface finish and 
less production time in rough superfinishing can be achieved using higher workpiece rotational 
speed and contact pressure. Thus, it is expected that rough superfinishing has a promising capability 
to replace fine hard turning, thereby improving process efficiency in finishing of hardened steel 
used in precision bearing. 
 
6. References 
 
[1] R. D. Knudsen, “Advances in tapered roller bearing design”, Power Transmission, 1988, Vol. 
6, pp. 71-74. 
[2] A. M. Swigert, The Story of Superfinish, Lynn Publishing Company, Detroit, 1940. 
[3] E. L. Hemingway, “Surface finish: Key to bearing life”, Machine Design, 1944, Vol. 16, pp. 
123-128. 
[4] H. Frank, “Superfinishing – the economic fine machining method”, Proceedings of the 
International Grinding Conference, Pittsburgh, 1972, pp. 833-849. 
[5] N. Matsumori, and Y. Onchi, “Advanced superfinishing with CBN and diamond stones”, 
Technical Paper MR93-133, Society of Manufacturing Engineering, Dearborn, Michigan, 
1993. 
[6] I. D. Marinescu, and E. Bordeianu, “Optimization of the parameters in superfinishing of ball 
bearing tracks”, Technical Paper MR94-166, Society of Manufacturing Engineering, 
Dearborn, Michigan, 1994. 
[7] Y. Onchi, N. Matsumori, N. Ikawa, and S. Shimada, “Porous fine cbn stones for high removal 
rate superfinishing”, Ann. CIRP, 1995, Vol. 44, pp. 291-294. 
[8] S. H. Chang, S. Balasubramhanya, S. Chandrasekar, T. N. Farris, and F. Hashimoto, “Forces 
and specific energy in superfinishing of hardened steel”, Ann. CIRP, 1997, Vol. 46, pp. 
257-260. 
[9] S. H. Chang, T. N. Farris, and S. Chandrasekar, “Experimental characterization of 
superfinishing”, Proc. Instn Mech. Engrs. Part B: Journal of Engineering Manufacture, 2003, 
Vol. 217, pp. 941-951. 
[10]  S. H. Chang, T. N. Farris, and S. Chandrasekar, “Contact mechanics of superfinishing”, 
ASME Journal of Tribology, 2000, Vol. 122, pp. 388-393. 
[11] T. K. Puthanangady, and S. Malkin, “Experimental investigation of the superfinishing 
process”, Wear, 1995, Vol. 185, pp. 173-182. 
[12] B. Varghese, and S. Malkin, “Experimental investigation of methods to enhance stock 
removal for superfinishing”, Ann. CIRP, 1998, Vol. 47, pp. 231-234. 
[13] L. Lu, Formation of wear particles in polishing of brittle solid and grinding of metals. Ph.D. 
thesis, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN. 
[14] F. Hashimoto, “Modelling and optimization of vibratory finishing process”, Ann. CIRP, 1996, 
 6
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                             97 年 10 月 27 日 
報告人姓名  張 世 鄉 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
遠東科技大學機械系副教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2008,6,15~2008,6,18 
美國北卡羅來納州 Raleigh 市
本會核定
補助文號
 
NSC 96-2212-E-269-015 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第八十二屆膠體及表面科學研討會 
 (英文) The 82nd Colloid & Surface Science Symposium 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)脂質結構內之修正 Poisson-Boltzmann 方程式的一種簡單且迅速的求解算則 
 (英文) A Simple and Efficient Algorithm for Solving Modified Poisson-Boltzmann Equation in Lipid Structures
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
第八十二屆膠體及表面科學研討會（The 82nd Colloid & Surface Science Symposium）
是由美國化學學會（American Chemistry Society）之膠體及表面科學部門主辦，於二○
○八年六月十五至十八日在美國北卡羅來納州 Raleigh 市舉行。本次研討會共分成電動
現象及微流體、環境應用及自然膠體、 膠體科學、生命科學應用、奈米級合成、微奈
米工程、膠體與介面的流變學、表面活性劑與生物分子的自我合成、應用在介面上的軟
物質及表面科學與催化作用等十大主題，每個主題之下又分成數個小主題。除了美國本
地的學者及工程師外，尚有來自全球十多個國家之學術界及工業界的專家學者與會。與
會者都是研究膠體與表面科學相關技術及應用的專業人士，藉由參加會議交換研究經
驗，了解目前膠體及表面科學的最新發展及應用。 
筆者於六月十六日晚上在膠體科學之研討會中發表一篇題目為「脂質結構內之修正
Poisson-Boltzmann 方程式的一種簡單且迅速的求解算則」的論文。該論文主要內容是利
用微分變換法來求解脂質結構內之修正 Poisson-Boltzmann 方程式，相較於傳統的泰勒
級數展開法，微分變換法所提供之求解算則能更便利且迅速應用於現有數學軟體，如
Mathematica 等，因此縮短解題時間。 
二、與會心得 
筆者對此次會議的許多議題皆感興趣，但受限於時間及場次，因此僅能選擇性參加。筆
者共參加了電動現象及微流體及膠體科學的分組報告，另外，亦抽空聽了臺灣大學化學
系主任陳立仁教授在應用在介面上的軟物質分組報告的演講，陳主任的演講題目為
「Temperature Effect and Charge Effect on Phase Behavior of Two-Dimensional 
Colloidal Particles at Oil/Water Interfaces」，其主要發現為二維膠體粒子之二體
位勢能是一種長距離的排斥能而且與距離的三次方成反比，除此之外，陳主任也探討了
溫度及電荷對二維膠體粒子之相變行為 (liquid phase, hexatic phase, solid phase) 的影
響。茲將與會心得整理如下。 
 
(1) 電動現象及微流體 
 
附件三
 
表 Y04 
The 82  ACS Colloid and Surface Science Symposium 
A Simple and Efficient Algorithm for Solving Modified Poisson-Boltzmann 
Equation in Lipid Structures 
nd 1
 
Shih-Hsiang Chang  
  
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Far East University, Tainan 744, TAIWAN 
 
Abstract 
 
By using a simple and efficient algorithm based on 
the differential transform method, the electric 
potential in a lipid structure containing counterions 
only is derived by solving the modified 
Poisson-Boltzmann equation, which takes into 
account the effects of inoic sizes. The analytical 
approximate solutions obtained for planar, 
cylindrical, and spherical geometries are expressed 
by logarithm of a rapid convergent power series and 
highly accurate in comparison with those obtained 
by other analytical methods for a wide range of 
surface potential values. 
 
Introduction 
The research on lipid-stablized water-in-oil 
microemulsion is of significant interests to engineers 
and scientists because of its emerging potential 
applications in the areas of pharmaceuticals, 
material science and biotechnology. Depending on 
the temperature and types of amphiphiles, these 
reverse micelles can be various structures [1, 2]. 
Water-in-oil (W/O) microemulsion and swollen 
reverse micelles systems are usually stablized by 
adding ionic surfactants. The electric contribution 
associated with the dissociation of ionic surfactants 
has been reported to significantly affect the structure 
and thermodynamic properties. 
Most of previous theoretical studies on the 
electric interactions in the systems of 
microemulsions are based on classic 
Poisson-Boltzmann equation (PBE) without 
considering the effect of finite ionic size [3-5]. 
However, if the droplet is small, the effect of ionic 
size will become more significant and more rigorous 
or sophisticated methods such as molecular 
simulations and modified PBE have to be applied. 
Recently, Hsu and his colleagues [6, 7] numerically 
estimated the ionic distribution in a reverse micelle 
and use Taylor series method to derive the electric 
potential distribution for different micelle structures 
based on the above modified PBE and a local idea 
mixing rule. They showed that the effect of ionic 
size on the degree of dissociation of surfactant shell 
is insignificant when the size of a micelle exceeds 
about 10 times that of the counterions. 
In this paper, a more efficient and 
mathematically friendly approach based on the 
differential transform method is presented to solve 
the modified PBE in planar, cylindrical, and 
spherical lipid structures containing counterions 
only. This new method eliminates the cumbersome 
computational work needed by Taylor series method 
when the products of two or more infinite series are 
involved. The analytical approximate solutions 
obtained are expressed by logarithm of a rapid 
convergent power series and highly accurate in 
comparison with those obtained by other analytical 
methods. 
 
Differential transform method 
The one-dimensioal differential transform 
method [8, 9] has been proved to be one of the 
useful techniques to solve the linear and nonlinear 
ordinary differential equations (ODEs) with a fast 
convergence rate and small calculation error. 
Another important advantage is that this method can 
be applied directly to nonlinear ODEs without 
requiring linearization, discretization or 
perturbation. 
Differential transform of function  is 
defined as follows. 
)(xy
0
)(
!
1)(
=
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡=
x
n
n
dx
xyd
n
nY                 (1) 
where is the original function and  is the 
transformed function, which is also called the 
T-function. The inverse differential transform of 
is defined as 
)(xy )(nY
)(nY
∑∞
=
=
0
)()(
n
nxnYxy            (2) 
The fundamental theorems of the one-dimensional 
differential transform are 
Theorem 1 If )()()( xzxyxw ±= , then 
               )()()( nZnYnW ±=  
Theorem 2 If )()( xyxw α= , then )()( nYnW α= . 
Theorem 3 If , then )()( )( xyxw i=
 )()( !
)!( inYnW n
in += + . 
Theorem 4 If )()()( xzxyxw = , then 
           ∑
=
−=
n
i
inZiYnW
0
)()()(
Theorem 5 If  then ixxw =)( , )()( innW −= δ . 
 
Problem Formulation  
As shown in Figure 1, we consider three types 
of reverse micelle systems such as planar, 
cylindrical, and spherical micelles, which comprise 
an aqueous core and a surfactant layer. Let R2 be the 
separation distance between two bilayers for planar 
micelle and the diameter for cylindrical and 
spherical micelles. Since the counterions in the 
aqueous core of a micelle are assumed to come from 
the dissociation of surfactant layer, the spatial 
variation of electric potential can be described )(xΨ
