 間過後即會趨緩。濾餅過濾比阻與過濾壓差的關係可以迴歸成指數型的經驗式，然而，
由於濾餅與粒子同時被壓縮，濾餅過濾比阻會隨著時間改變。若粒子有較長的遲滯時間
或較大的軟性因子，則粒子具備較高彈性與變形的本質。因此，該粒子將會構成相當緊
密與高比阻的濾餅。但這些效應在這些參數超過臨界值後即變得不明顯。在第二個部份
的研究中，主要是利用掃流式陶瓷膜過濾系統針對二氧化鈦奈米粒子水溶液進行濾速提
升的探討，實驗操作參數有溶液之pH值、濃度、透膜壓差、液體速度、通氣速度等，經
由這些實驗操作的探討，找出提升二氧化鈦奈米粒子水溶液濾速之最佳操作條件。實驗
結果發現，當粒子所處的溶液環境為二氧化鈦之等電位點(pH=7)時粒子容易凝聚，尤其
在增加液體速度或通入氣體時，可以有效的造成擾動而提昇剪應力，因此對濃度極化現
象的移除，有正面的幫助，因此濾速的提升會很顯著；由實驗結果也發現氣液兩相流的
操作方式對濾速之提升幫助最大；於pH=5 時，濾速會受總體速度影響，總體速度越大，
得到的濾速便會越大；於pH=7 時，除了受總體速度影響外，也會受注入因子(injection 
factor)的影響，從研究中顯示注入因子為 0.5 時，對濾速提升最為顯著。 
 
關鍵詞：薄膜過濾、微過濾、超過濾、薄膜結垢、奈米粒子、軟膠體 
 
ABSTRACT 
This is a Taiwan-Japan international cooperation research project. In our side, the 
researches can be divided into two major parts, to clarify the separation properties of nano and 
soft particles in membrane filtration, and to afford the optimum design and processing of 
sophisticated membrane filtration. In the first part of this project, three kinds of porous gel 
particles with different compression properties were prepared and used in “dead-end” 
filtration experiments. Incorporating the conventional cake compressibility index, two 
additional parameters for particle compression, retardation time and softness index, are 
introduced to discuss the porous gel particle viscoelastic compression behaviors and filtration 
 2
 effective way to enhance the permeate flux. At pH=5, the permeate flux is mainly affected by 
the total velocity. The higher total velocity, the higher permeate flux is obtained. At pH=7, the 
permeate flux is affected not only by the total velocity but also by the injection factor. 
Presented work implies that the best flux enhancement occurs at the 0.5 injection factor. 
 
Keywords: membrane filtration, microfiltration, ultrafiltration, membrane fouling, 
nano-particles, soft colloids 
 
 
二、緣由與目的 
奈米粒子及軟膠體粒子(例如光觸媒、水膠、蛋白質、乳膠、微生物細胞及鬆散的
絮狀物等) 之固-液分離已經成為生物、食品及醫藥技術與廢水處理等眾多工業程序所
不可或缺，尤其在台灣變得愈來愈重要，因為台灣缺乏自然資源，而且皆需仰賴工業以
生產高附加價值的產品，例如食品加工、醫藥製造及新材料開發等。過去幾年申請人已
開始研究軟膠體與奈米粒子的固-液分離技術，目前也已經發表了一些基礎的研究成
果。為持續保有此既有的優勢，故在此研究領域的持續發展是極為必要的。所以這個研
究計畫的目的就是闡明在薄膜過濾中奈米與軟膠體粒子的分離及結垢特性，並藉以研發
高效能的精密薄膜過濾技術。 
 
三、研究方法 
實驗物料 
本研究以三種不同分子量(70 kDa、500 kDa及 2000 kDa)的葡聚醣分別與過錳酸鉀交
聯成葡聚醣-二氧化錳( Dextran-MnO2 )之多孔性軟膠體，作為實驗樣品。此三種不同之
軟膠體有相近的粒徑分佈、介達電位及密度，但其機械強度及壓縮性質迥然不同。濾材
 4
 集量下，將濾液倒回進料槽以維持進料槽之濃度不變。使用之薄膜為TAMI公司生產之
100 kDa單通道管式陶瓷(TiO2)薄膜。 
 
 
Fig.2 Experimental apparatus of two-phase flow membrane filtration. 
 
四、結果與討論 
第一部分：闡明薄膜過濾中奈米軟膠體粒子之結垢機制 
Fig.3 為Dextran-MnO2 (MW = 2000 kDa)在不同操作壓力下恆壓過濾的結果，軟膠體
的過濾曲線(dt/dv vs. v)理論上可區分為三個階段，第一階段：過濾一開始呈線性關係；
第二階段：隨著過濾進行則變成一先凹再凸的反曲曲線；第三階段：過濾後期則又大致
呈線性關係。探究其成因，發現當過濾一開始，粒子被輸送到濾材表面上，此時粒子尚
未受到壓縮，此時濾餅的阻力來自於濾餅的成長及粒子的重排，但此段發生的時間非常
短暫，以至於在圖中沒有明顯的趨勢；隨著過濾的進行，粒子受到壓縮變形使得阻力急
遽增加，孔隙度減小，並且在接近濾材表面形成一緻密層(skin layer)，使得大部份的壓
降損失於此，此為第二階段；過濾後期由於大部份的壓降損失集中於接近濾材表面的緻
密層，剩餘的壓降並無法對粒子產生壓縮，故過濾後期濾餅的阻力來自於自於粒子床的
 6
 致於重量些微上升。 
 
0 400 800 1200 1600 2000
t  (s)
1x10-5
1x10-4
1x10-3
1x10-2
1x10-1
1x100
1-
 e
ex
  (
-)
Dextran-MnO2 Gel Particles
A (MW =  70 kDa)
B (MW = 500 kDa)
C (MW = 2000 kDa)
 
Fig.4 A plot of 1-eex vs. t for different gel particles. 
 
100 1000 10000
t  (s)
0.1
0.12
0.14
0.16
0.18
w
c 
 (k
g/
m
2 )
0.1 wt% Gel Particle B
(MW = 500 kDa)
ΔP = 20 kPa
ΔP =100 kPa
ΔP =200 kPa
ΔP =300 kPa
 
Fig.5 Cake mass time courses for gel particle B under various filtration pressures. 
 
 8
 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4
m  (-)
.5
0.5
0.7
0.9
1.1
1.3
1.5
n 
 (-
)
180 200 220 240 260
τ  (s)
Dextran-MnO2 Gel particles
nmax vs. m
nequi vs. m
nmax vs. τ
 
Fig.7 Relationships between cake compressibility and gel particle properties. 
 
第二部分：研發新穎之動態薄膜過濾系統 
Fig.8 為濃度 5 kg/m3時之過濾結果，由圖中可見於各掃流速度下，pH = 7 時所得到
的穩態濾速均比pH = 5 時得到的都還要來得高，這是因為當pH = 7 時為等電位點，此時
的粒子較易凝聚，因此會聚集成較大的粒子，而大粒子與大粒子堆疊的程度不似小粒子
堆疊般來得緊密，因此會有較為鬆散的濾餅，而有較小的過濾阻力，因此會得到較大的
濾速；而於pH = 5 時粒子帶正電而薄膜帶負電，粒子不若等電位點時那般容易聚集而呈
現較小的粒子，其堆疊成的濾餅會較為緻密，再加上薄膜對此時粒子的靜電吸引力，會
讓此時的粒子更易吸附在薄膜上，兩種因素的加成導致pH = 5 時的過濾阻力會較其等電
位點時來得更大，因此其得到的濾速會較小。 
 
 10
 0 0.2 0.4 0.6
UL (m/s)
0
4
8
12
J s
s (
10
-5
 m
3 /
m
2 s
)
 pH=7 
, 1kg/m3
& 3kg/m3
* 5kg/m3
 
Fig.9 A plot of steady state flux at different feed concentration and liquid velocities. 
(ΔP = 100 kPa, pH = 7). 
 
Fig.10 為高濃度進料溶液在不同透膜壓差及液體速度操作下之穩態濾速。由圖觀察
出，隨著過濾驅動力透膜壓差的增加，濾速並無明顯的上升。此表示在這些壓力操作下，
膜面上溶質濃度幾乎不再發生變化，並形成一層穩定的濃度極化層阻力。在液體速度的
影響方面，可以很明顯的看出TiO2粒子受液體速度的影響比受透膜壓差的影響還要來的
更大，在pH = 7 溶液下尤其明顯。由實驗結果可知，若要提高TiO2水溶液之濾速，提高
液體速度以減少過濾時產生的濃度極化阻力，會比增加其驅動力還要來的更有效。 
Fig.11 分別代表不同的通氣速度對低濃度TiO2水溶液(1 kg/m3)之影響，通入之氣體
速度越大，得到的濾速就越大，且隨著液體速度的提高，通氣對濾速提升的效應越明顯，
相較於沒有通氣的條件，可以見得通氣對濾速之提升確實有收到良好之成效；這是因為
通入氣體會增加膜面的擾動，以及提高對管壁之剪應力所致，且通入氣體之效應於層流
時會比在紊流時來的更為有效，至於在液體速度為 0.3 m/s、通氣速度亦為 0.3 m/s時所
得到的濾速是在pH = 7 的系統當中最高的，此為注入因子(ε)與總體速度(UT , UT = UL + 
UG)效應加成達至最高時的結果。 
 
 12
 溶液而言，通氣對濾速提升的效應仍維持蠻高的效果，因在等電位點下TiO2可凝聚成較
大之粒子，對於通入氣體減緩濃度極化的效應會較為敏感，而且大粒子所堆疊成的濾餅
其孔隙度也比較大(TiO2為剛性粒子，不可壓縮)，利於濾液之通過，因此與低濃度的結
果比較起來，在高濃度之下所得之濾速並沒有因濃度提高之影響而衰減的相當嚴重。 
 
0 0.2 0.4
UL (m/s)
0.6
0
4
8
12
J ss
 (1
0-
5  m
3 /m
2 s
)
Concentration=5kg/m3 
 pH=7 UG=
, 0.3 m/s 
& 0.1 m/s
* 0.05 m/s
/ 0 m/s
 
 
Fig. 12 Effect of various cross velocities on the steady state flux in different inlet gas 
velocities (pH = 7, ΔP=100 kPa , C = 5 kg/m3). 
 
五、結論與未來研究方向 
本研究之目的為「闡明薄膜過濾中奈米軟膠體粒子之結垢機制」與「研發新穎之動
態薄膜過濾系統」。探討了粒子壓縮性質與操作條件對過濾通量、薄膜結垢、濾餅性質
的影響，並獲致若干重要的結論。期望能據以尋找提高分離效率的方法，並基於所獲得
的基礎成果研發高效能的薄膜過濾裝置。 
 
六、計劃成果自評 
 14
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
                                      日期： 99 年 6 月 5 日 
計畫編號 NSC 98 － 2221－ E － 032 － 016 － 
計畫名稱 研發奈米軟膠體粒子之精密薄膜過濾技術 
出國人員
姓名 黃國楨、鄭東文 
服務機構
及職稱 
淡江大學 化材系 
教授 
合作國家 日 本 合作機構 名古屋大學 化工系 
出國時間 99 年 5 月 26 日至 99 年 5 月 31 日 出國地點 
日本，名古屋  
一、國際合作研究過程 
執行本國際合作研究計畫「研發奈米軟膠體粒子之精密薄膜過濾技術」之合作對象為日
本名古屋大學化工系「精密分離講座」之 E. Iritani 教授。本計畫除了按照各子題進行分工之
外，並配合雙方的進度，針對共同執行之子題進行合作研發。計畫執行期間並有雙方主持人
與研究生的互訪，到對方之研究室進行實驗、吸取經驗，並使用大型貴重儀器；本次即為計
畫主持人、共同主持人與研究生赴名古屋大學進行短期實驗、研究、討論，並使用名古屋大
學的精密分析儀器。 
本計畫相關研究人員一行於 5 月 26 日搭乘中華航空公司 CI-150 班機直飛日本名古屋。
5 月 27 日至 5 月 30 日即於名古屋大學化工系進行本計畫之相關研究與討論，於 5 月 31 日
乘坐華航班機返國。 
本次訪問研究行程中，使用對方實驗室的精密分析儀器為主要目的之ㄧ。本計劃之研發
過程，軟膠體粒子的粒徑與壓縮-變形行為皆為重要的物性參數，其影響薄膜過濾性能至鉅，
對高效率過濾裝置的設計亦有決定性的影響。故在短期訪問期間計使用了名古屋大學的奈米
粒徑分析儀與高感度壓縮透過分析儀等設備，獲得的結果對未來研究的進行有極大助益，研
究成果將在下一章節中說明。 
本次訪問研究行程的另一目的為討論研究進度與擬定未來研究方向。本計畫相關研究人
員除了利用各種時機與日方研究人員互相研討之外，並舉辦一場成果發表與討論會。雙方輪
流進行口頭報告，在報告後進行討論，與會人員可以提出意見或疑問，並交換研究心得。由
       1
國楨教授與鄭東文教授，日本名古屋大學則包含化工系「精密分離講座」的講座教授 Eiji 
Iritani 及助理教授 Nobuyuki Katagiri。本計劃之研究子題可分為以下六項: 
1. 奈米軟膠體粒子之薄膜濾餅過濾的基礎研究 (在日本名古屋大學進行)。 
2. 研發高效能之薄膜掃流過濾技術 (在淡江大學進行---主持人黃國楨教授)。 
3. 闡明薄膜過濾中奈米軟膠體粒子之結垢機制 (由台灣與日本同時進行)。 
4. 研發奈米軟膠體粒子之複合薄膜過濾程序 (在日本名古屋大學進行)。 
5. 研發新穎之動態薄膜過濾系統 (在淡江大學進行---主持人鄭東文教授) 
6. 研發高效能之奈米軟膠體粒子的薄膜過濾系統 (由台灣與日本同時進行)。 
 
根據台日雙方擬定的研究子題，分工架構如圖一所示。在台灣方面，已經由兩位主要研
究成員分別進行子題 2 與 5 之研究，並配合名古屋大學的進度，針對子題 3 與 6 進行共同研
發。在本計畫執行的 10 個月以來，薄膜結垢與軟粒子之壓縮機制已經藉由探討濾餅成長與
膜孔阻塞之動態行為來釐清，台日雙方並已經將一些重要成果共同發表於知名期刊中，例如： 
1. Hwang, K.J., Y.T. Wang, E. Iritani and N. Katagiri, “Effects of Porous Gel Particle 
Compression Properties on Microfiltration Characteristics,” J. Membr. Sci., 341, 286-293 
(2009). (由台灣主作) 
2. Iritani, E., T. Sato, N. Katagiri and K.J. Hwang, “Multi-Staged Creep Effect in Consolidation 
of Tofu and Okara as Soft Colloids,” J. Chem. Eng. Jpn., 43, 2, 140-149 (2010). (日本主作) 
 
 
圖2  本計畫的研究策略與分工架構 
       3
  
2000 4000 6000
t  (s)
0.1
1
10
2
5
20
α av
  x
 1
0-
13
 (m
/k
g)
          0.1 wt% Dextran-MnO2
           MW=500 kDa, ΔP=80 kPa
       exp.     cal.
      us = 0.1 m/s
      us = 0.3 m/s
      us = 0.5 m/s
0
 
圖4  濾餅平均過濾比阻在過濾過程中之變化 
 
 
在本次訪問研究行程中能獲得濾餅壓縮與透過的物性參數，對未來研究的進行有極大助
益。故在本計劃接下來的時程，將會應用至「闡明軟膠體之薄膜結垢機制」與「研發高效能
之薄膜掃流過濾技術」等研究子題中。 
總而言之，在本次訪問研究行程中，除了進行雙方進度的報告、掌握之外，並已擬定未
來的研究方向與進度。此外，並使用名古屋大學的精密儀器，能夠獲得濾餅壓縮與透過的物
性參數，對未來研究的進行有極大助益。台日雙方並同意共同發表研究成果、強化雙方未來
交流。 
 
 
三、建議 
日本古屋大學化工系「精密分離講座」一向與台灣「固液分離研究群」關係密切，自過
去台大化工系呂維明教授與名古屋大學化工系白戶紋平教授的深厚友誼，到今日台日「精密
       5
Journal of Membrane Science 341 (2009) 286–293
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Membrane Science
journa l homepage: www.e lsev ier .com/ locate /memsci
Effects of porous gel particle compression properties on microﬁltration
characteristics
Kuo-Jen Hwang a,∗, Ya-Ting Wang a, Eiji Iritani b, Nobuyuki Katagiri b
a Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, Tamkang University, #151 Ying-Chuan Rd., Tamsui, Taipei Hsien 25137, Taiwan
b Department of Chemical Engineering, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8603, Japan
a r t i c l e i n f o
Article history:
Received 5 February 2009
Received in revised form 14 June 2009
Accepted 15 June 2009
Available online 24 June 2009
Keywords:
Microﬁltration
Cake compression
Soft particles
Cake properties
Particle deformation
Gel particles
a b s t r a c t
Three kinds of porous gel particles with different compression properties were prepared and used in
“dead-end” ﬁltration experiments. Incorporating the conventional cake compressibility index, two addi-
tional parameters for particle compression, retardation time and softness index, are introduced to discuss
the porous gel particle viscoelastic compression behaviors and ﬁltration characteristics, including the
variations of ﬁltration ﬂux, cake mass, cake porosity, water inside the particles and speciﬁc cake ﬁltration
resistance during ﬁltration. A cake compression mechanism including four stages is proposed to explain
the ﬁltration curve trend for dt/dv vs. v for different gel particles. The concave trend in the compression
stage is more obvious for gel particles that exhibit longer retardation time or a smaller particle soft-
ness index, or under lower ﬁltration pressure. The variation in cake porosity during compression can be
described using a Voigt in series model. Cake mass (including dry solid and the internal water) decreases
quickly in the early ﬁltration stage because of the rapid percolation of particle internal water, and then
increases gradually after the cake compression retardation time due to the formation of new cake layers.
A power relationship between the average speciﬁc cake ﬁltration resistance and ﬁltration pressure can be
regressed. However, the speciﬁc cake ﬁltration resistance value varies with time due to both cake and par-
ticle compression. A long compression retardation time or a high particle softness index implies that the
particles possess high elastic and deformable natures. Consequently, the particles will form an extremely
compact and high resistance cake. These effects become trivial when the compression parameters exceed
the critical values. In conclusion, the compression behaviors of cakes formed by soft particles can be well
interpreted using the relationships between cake compressibility and particle compression properties,
such as the retardation time and softness index.
© 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
Solid–liquid separation of soft or deformable particles has
become increasingly important in recent years. Different kinds
of soft particles, such as microbial cells, hydrogels, proteins, and
emulsions, are designed products in many pharmaceutical, bio-
chemical or chemical engineering processes. When deformable or
soft particles are ﬁltered, a compact “skin layer” may be formed
next to the membrane surface due to their highly compressible
behavior [1]. A thin skin layer is sufﬁcient to deplete most solid
compressive pressures and result in an extremely high ﬁltration
resistance. Therefore, reducing ﬁltration resistance or mitigating
the ﬂux decline is an important course in this kind of operation.
Filter cakes formed by soft or deformable particles always
exhibit viscoelastic or creeping behaviors during ﬁltration [2–5].
∗ Corresponding author. Tel.: +886 2 26215656x2726; fax: +886 2 26209887.
E-mail address: kjhwang@mail.tku.edu.tw (K.-J. Hwang).
Hwang and Hseuh [4] and Hwang et al. [6] prepared Dextran-MnO2
gel particles and examined their ﬁltration characteristics. An impor-
tant conclusion proposed in those previous studies was the dt/dvvs.
v ﬁltration curve no longer formed a Ruth-type straight line if soft
particles are ﬁltered. An error prediction for the ﬁltration rate often
occurs when employing the conventional cake ﬁltration theory.
Hwang and Hseuh [4] indicated that the local tangents of the ﬁltra-
tion curve might increase the slopes due to particle compression
and deformation. The cake compressibility increased continuously
until it reached the maximum value during ﬁltration.
Several efforts have been devoted to understand the com-
pression behaviors of particulate beds constructed using soft or
deformable particles in recent years. Lanoisellé et al. [7] devel-
oped a mechanical expression model for cellular materials based
on Darcy’s law. The sediment layer and the deformations of extra-
particle, extracelluar and intracellular volumes were calculated by
solving their derived partial differential equations under constant
pressure. Lu et al. [8] employed a Voigt in series model to charac-
terize the deformation behavior of calcium-alginate gel particles
0376-7388/$ – see front matter © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.memsci.2009.06.029
288 K.-J. Hwang et al. / Journal of Membrane Science 341 (2009) 286–293
Fig. 3. A schematic diagram of the “dead-end” ﬁltration system.
no particle coagulation or ﬂocculation was found during experi-
ments. Since the sizes and zeta potentials of those gel particles are
nearly the same, this provides an opportunity to discuss the effects
of particle compression properties on the ﬁltration characteristics.
2.2. Filtration experiments
Constant pressure ﬁltration experiments were performed using
a “dead-end” bomb ﬁlter as shown in Fig. 3. The ﬁltration area in
the ﬁlter chamber was 8.55 × 10−4 m2. The membrane used in these
experiments was made of mixed cellulose ester. The mean pore
diameter of the membrane was 0.1m. Gel particles were sus-
pended in de-ionized water in the bomb ﬁlter to prepare 0.1 wt%
suspensions. The pH and temperature of the suspension were kept
at 7.0 and 25 ◦C, respectively. The suspension was well mixed in the
ﬁlter using a magnetic stirrer. Although a cross-ﬂow shear envi-
ronment due to suspension mixing existed in the bomb ﬁlter, this
effect was negligible in the cylindrical ﬁlter chamber. The ﬁltration
was then considered as one-dimensional dead-end mode. The ﬁl-
tration pressure was supplied by compressed air and adjusted using
a regulator. The ﬁltrate was collected into a receiver placed onto a
load cell. Any increase in the ﬁltrate weight during ﬁltration was
indicated by the load cell and recorded in a personal computer. As
soon as the experiment was terminated, the cake formed on the
ﬁlter membrane was analyzed for its wet and dry masses using an
infrared-ray moisture meter (AD-4714A, AND Co., Japan). Since the
drying rates of free water, interstitial water and interior water in
the cake were different due to their bounding energies, the per-
centages of water contained in the gel particles and existed in the
interstices were determined from the cake drying curve [4,11]. The
water contained in a particle was considered as part of the particle.
The cake porosity was then calculated from the volume fraction of
interstitial water. Once the cake mass was known, the average spe-
ciﬁc cake ﬁltration resistance could then be calculated using the
basic ﬁltration equation.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Cake compression mechanism
The typical cake compression mechanism formed by soft parti-
cles can be divided into four stages and illustrated in Fig. 4. These
stages are similar to those in modeling of solid/liquid mechanical
expression for cellular materials [7]. In a ﬁltration, particles are
transported by the permeating liquid toward the ﬁlter medium,
deposited onto the ﬁlter medium to form a ﬁlter cake, as shown
in Fig. 4(a). In the early stage of cake layer growth, as shown in
Fig. 4(b), the locations of the deposited particles are rearranged
into a more compact structure due to the existing solid compres-
sive pressure. Most particles retain their original shape in this stage
Fig. 4. Four stages of cake compression during ﬁltration of soft particles: (a) particle
deposition, (b) particle rearrangement, (c) localized deformation, and (d) homoge-
neous deformation (bulk desiﬁcation).
because of the retardation effect of particle compression. After a
period of time, the particles begin to deform in shape, especially
the particles located near the ﬁlter medium surface, as shown in
Fig. 4(c). The particle compression in this stage is called “localized
deformation”. A skin layer may be formed next to the medium sur-
face in this stage. If the compression continues for a long time, the
compressive pressure becomes high, or the particles are extremely
soft, particle deformation propagates into the entire cake. This stage
is called “homogeneous deformation”, and the boundaries between
the particles become indistinct, as shown in Fig. 4(d). In such a con-
dition, a gel-like cake with high ﬁltration resistance will be formed.
This compression mechanism can be used to explain the ﬁltration
characteristics of porous gel particles during ﬁltration.
3.2. Filtration curve
Fig. 5 shows the dt/dv vs. v plots for the gel particles prepared
using Dextran-T2000 under various ﬁltration pressures. The curve
trend is different from the analysis for classical cake compression
behavior. According to the author’s analysis from previous studies
[4,6], the ﬁltration curves for soft particles can be divided into three
distinct parts. The ﬁrst part (Region A in Fig. 5) is similar to incom-
pressible particle ﬁltration curves because the cake particles have
not yet deformed. The cake compression is due only to particle rear-
rangement. The second part of the curves shows a concave–convex
trend. The drastic increase in the tangent slope is attributed to parti-
cle deformation. Because a reﬂection point occurs, the curve in this
290 K.-J. Hwang et al. / Journal of Membrane Science 341 (2009) 286–293
Table 2
Cake compression properties for different gel particles.
Sample ID A B C
MW (kDa) 70 500 2000
 (s) 185 250 220
m 2.42 3.27 4.35
Fig. 8. Cake mass time courses for gel particle B under various ﬁltration pressures.
until t = 250 s, the particle compression retardation time. Since the
cake mass includes dry solids and the particle internal water, the
decrease in cake mass in this period is due mainly to the percola-
tion of internal particle water. The trend clearly indicates that the
cake compression occurs in the early ﬁltration periods. After that,
the cake mass increases again at a slow rate. An interesting ten-
dency is that a lighter cake is built under higher ﬁltration pressure.
This reveals that cake compression plays an important role in cake
growth (as well as on the ﬁltration rate) and the internal water
comprises a considerable fraction of the whole particle mass.
Fig. 9 depicts the variations in the water volume fraction in the
cake particles, H, during ﬁltration under the same conditions shown
in Fig. 8. The gel particles contain 76% internal water in volume ini-
tially. A sudden decrease in water fraction in particles occurs in the
early ﬁltration stage, actually before the particle compression retar-
dation time. After that time, the H values remain nearly constant
Fig. 9. Time courses of water volume fraction in the cake particles during ﬁltration
under various pressures.
Fig. 10. The relationships between ˛av and P for gel particle B at different times.
depending on the applied pressure. An increase in ﬁltration pres-
sure leads to a higher compressive pressure, consequently, a lower
water content in the particles. The H value after the compression
under 300 kPa is only a half of its original value.
Fig. 10 shows a typical relationship between the average speciﬁc
cake ﬁltration resistance, ˛av, and ﬁltration pressure, P, at differ-
ent ﬁltration times. The experiments were carried out at least three
times for a given ﬁltration pressure to ensure the reproducibility.
Although the data shown in this ﬁgure were obtained for gel particle
B, the same tendency can be also found for the other two particu-
late samples. For the method these data were obtained, refer to
the authors’ previous study [4]. In short, the values for ˛av under a
given pressure at different times can be measured in experiments.
After the measurements under various pressures, the lines shown
in Fig. 10 were plotted by connecting the data at the same times.
The data show that ˛av increases with time for a given pressure and
increases with increasing ﬁltration pressure at a ﬁxed time. These
phenomena can be understood logically. The cake compression dur-
ing ﬁltration results in more compact cake and higher ﬁltration
resistance. Although the ﬁltration curves shown in Figs. 5 and 6
exhibit convex trends after Region C, the value of ˛av still increases
with time due to the variation in cake mass. In addition, the data
at the same time can be regressed to straight lines in the logarithm
scales. This implies a power relationship exists between ˛av and
P and this trend is the same as those in previous studies [4,12,13].
However, a unique relation between ˛av and P was found for rigid
particles, while those for porous gel particles vary with time. In
addition, an intersection point in the lines before the retardation
time (250 s), point A, occurs at an extreme low pressure, 7 kPa. This
means that no compression will occur when the applied pressure
is lower than that value. In contrast, the lines after the retardation
time intersect at an extreme high pressure, 7.2 × 104 kPa. In this
condition, the structure of the gel particles will be destroyed and
the cake forms a solid-like structure and no more compression will
occur. Comparing the data under different pressures, the variation
in ˛av is slower before  but becomes quicker after  under a lower
pressure. This is the reason why the concave trend in Region B under
P = 100 kPa is more obvious than those under higher pressures in
Fig. 5.
According to the analysis of Lu et al. [12], a power-type empirical
relationship between ˛av and P can be expressed as
˛av = A · Pn (2)
where A is a coefﬁcient and n is the index so-called “cake compress-
ibility”. A comparison of plots of ˛av vs. P for different gel particles
292 K.-J. Hwang et al. / Journal of Membrane Science 341 (2009) 286–293
Fig. 14. Relationships between cake compressibility and gel particle properties.
speciﬁc surface increases accordingly, regardless of the increase in
the contact area between particles due to particle deformation. This
effect is more signiﬁcant for gel particle C. Because the softness can
also be reﬂected in the variation in So with ε [8], it can be said that
increasing the dextran molecular weight will result in softer gel
particles. Considering each kind of porous gel particle, the effec-
tive speciﬁc surface area can be expressed as a function of the cake
porosity using the following equation:
So = B · ε−m (5)
where B is a coefﬁcient and m is called the “particle softness index”
for simplicity. The sensibility of particle deformation can be indi-
cated using this index and the values for m for different particles
are summarized in Table 2. The values indicate that gel particle C
is the softest, while Particle A is the hardest. Comparing the data
shown in Fig. 11, an increase in particle softness leads to a higher
speciﬁc cake ﬁltration resistance.
The relationships between cake compressibility and particle
compression properties, particle softness index and retardation
time for compression, are shown in Fig. 14. The symbols nmax and
nequi are the cake compressibility values at the maximum and
at the equilibrium states (says t = 10000s), respectively. Particles
with a long compression retardation time or with a high softness
index exhibit highly elastic and deformable characteristics; con-
sequently, they will build an extremely compact and hugely high
resistance cake. However, these effects become trivial when m > 3.3
or  > 220 s, as shown in Fig. 14. For highly compressible particles,
they easily form a high-resistance skin layer at the early ﬁltration
period. The depletion of most solid compressive pressures on this
layer makes a loose structure in the newly formed cake layer. As a
result, the cake compressibility decreases gradually after reaching
its maximum value, as shown in Fig. 12. By comparing the values
for nmax and nequi shown in Fig. 14, it can be found that this effect
is more signiﬁcant as particle softness index increases. Therefore,
the compression behaviors of cakes formed by different soft parti-
cles can be well interpreted using the relationships between cake
compressibility and particle compression properties.
4. Conclusions
Dextran-MnO2 porous gel particles were prepared using three
different dextran molecular weights, such as 700 kDa (Particle A),
500 kDa (Particle B) and 2000 kDa (Particle C). The cake compres-
sion retardation time sequence is Particle B > Particle C > Particle
A, while that for the particle softness index is Particle C > Particle
B > Particle A. The ﬁltration characteristics for porous gel particles
can reasonably be explained using the proposed mechanism and
particle compression properties even though the cake porosity is
as low as 0.2. The cake mass decreased drastically in the early
ﬁltration stage due to water inside particles being squeezed out,
but increased gradually due to the formation of a new cake layer
after the retardation time. Although the value for ˛av varies with
time, a power relationship between ˛av and P could be found
at a given time. The lines before the cake compression retardation
time intersected at a low pressure beneath which no sufﬁcient solid
compressive pressure could induce cake deformation. In contrast,
the lines after the retardation time intersected at an extremely
high pressure beyond which the gel particle structure would be
destroyed, and no clear particle boundary could be found. The com-
pression behaviors of cakes formed by different soft particles can
be well interpreted using the relationships between cake com-
pressibility and particle compression properties. An increase in
compression retardation time or particle softness index resulted in
a more compact and higher resistance cake. However, these effects
became trivial when m > 3.3 or  > 220 s.
Acknowledgement
The authors wish to express their sincere gratitude to the
National Science Council of the Republic of China for its ﬁnancial
support.
Nomenclature
A a coefﬁcient deﬁned in Eq. (2) (m2/m3)
B a coefﬁcient deﬁned in Eq. (5) (m2/m3)
dp particle diameter (m)
eex a dimensionless compression function deﬁned in Eq.
(1)
f(dp) frequency function of particle size distribution (%)
H water volume fraction in particles
k Kozeny constant
MW dextran molecular weight (Da)
m particle softness index deﬁned in Eq. (5)
n cake compressibility deﬁned in Eq. (2)
So effective speciﬁc surface area of particle (m2/m3)
t ﬁltration time (s)
v received ﬁltrate volume per unit area (m3/m2)
wc cake mass per unit area (kg/m2)
Greek letters
˛ speciﬁc cake ﬁltration resistance (m/kg)
ε cake porosity
P ﬁltration pressure (N/m2)
s particle bulk density (kg/m3)
 cake compression retardation time (s)
Subscript
av average cake properties
equi the property at equilibrium state
f after compression
max the maximum property during compression
o before compression
t at time t
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                               98 年 11 月 26 日 
  報    告    人 
  姓          名  
黃  國  楨  服 務 機 關 
 及   職  稱 
淡江大學 化材系 
教 授 
           時  間  
  會   議 
           地  點   
  11 月 19~20 日, 2009 
  東京, 日本 
                     
 本 會 核 定 
            
 補 助 文 號 
計劃編號:  
NSC-98-2221-E-032-016 
                    
會  議  名   稱 
  (中文) 過濾暨分離研討會與展示會 
  (英文) Filtration & Separation Symposium and Exhibition 
                    
 發 表 論 文 題 目 
  (中文) 微粒子沉浸式薄膜過濾中薄膜結垢之研究 
  (英文) A Study on Membrane Fouling in Submerged Membrane 
Filtration of Fine Particles 
 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
「過濾暨分離研討會與展示會」每兩年在東京舉辦一次，是由「日本化學工程師學會」 
(SCEJ)、「過濾協會日本分會」與「SCEJ 固液分離工作小組」共同主辦，係日本地區最重要的
過濾與分離主題的研討會，本屆仍在台場的 TIME 24 Bld.舉行，與會人員約一百人。 
報告人於 11 月 18 日下午 14:15 搭乘中華航空公司班機直飛日本東京成田機場，經過 3 個小
時的飛行，於當天下午抵達。並隨即搭車前往旅館入住。 
11 月 19 日早上 8:30 即搭乘「百合海鷗號」輕軌列車前往東京新都心－台場，本屆會議之會
場仍為位於「Telecom Center」站附近的 TIME 24 Bld.，交通相當便利。在辦理註冊手續之後，領
取名牌、議程表及論文專輯等資料，與主辦之名古屋大學幾位教授寒喧後，隨即參加開幕式。首
先，由會議主席, 名古屋大學的 Prof. E. Iritani, 致歡迎詞。緊接著，馬上開始第一天的議程。報
告人與名古屋大學的 Prof. Iritani、Prof. Mukai、Prof. Katagiri、以及鈴鹿技術學院的 Prof. Iwata
等皆為舊識，好友相聚、相談甚歡。 
本屆會議除了 2 個邀請演講之外，共計發表了論文 30 篇，內容涵蓋大部份的過濾與分離領
域，計有大約一百多名專家學者參加。論文全部皆為口頭發表，在報告 15 分鐘後有 5 分鐘的討
       7
   
圖 2  展示會場外之海報看板。 
 
在閉幕式後，報告人並與名古屋大學的教授們合影留念，如圖 3。 
 
圖 3  與日本名古屋大學之教授們合影。 
 
為了促進台日雙方的研究交流，Prof. Iritani 在 20 日會議結束後安排有交流晚宴，雙方主要
       9
相關領域的新資訊、新設備與研發概況之外，對視野的拓展與研究的啟發更是助益匪淺。 
因執行國科會國際合作研究計畫「研發奈米軟膠體粒子之精密薄膜過濾技術」，合作對象即
為日本名古屋大學「精密分離講座」之 E. Iritani 教授。本國際合作計畫除了按照各子題進行分工
之外，並配合雙方的進度，針對共同子題合作研發。本次報告人參加研討會期間，除了進行雙方
進度的報告、掌握之外，並已擬定未來的研究方向與進度。此外，並確定明年 5 月間將有雙方主
持人與研究生的互訪，到對方之研究室進行實驗、吸取經驗，以及使用大型貴重儀器。台日雙方
並同意共同發表研究成果、強化雙方未來交流。 
 
 
三、 建議 
出席國際會議可以擴大與相關領域之學者的接觸，經由面對面的研討，可吸取此領域之最新資
訊，對研究方向亦可有相當程度的啟發，對增進研究的深度與廣度皆有相當大的助益。此外，參加
國際會議並可提昇國家的知名度與研究聲譽，尤其是具有實質交流與促進研究合作的會議，值得政
府繼續鼓勵與資助。 
 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
本次會議之論文集與參加人員名單、InChem Tokyo 廠商資料等。 
 
       11
 
 
Fig. 1 Force analysis on a depositing particle in 
SMF system 
 
where μ is the fluid viscosity, dp is the particle 
diameter, up is the undisturbed fluid velocity at the 
particle center, and C1 is a correction factor for the 
presence of the porous medium.  
The drag force due to the permeating flow can 
also be calculated using the modified Stokes law, 
that is, 
23 CqdF pp μπ=      (2) 
where q is the filtration flux and C2 is a correction 
factor due to the existences of the porous medium. 
The inertial lift velocity of the particle in a linear 
tangential flow can be calculated by [2] 
32
2576
61
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛⋅⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛= pwl
d
v ν
γ     (3) 
where ν is the fluid kinematic viscosity and γw is the 
shear rate at the membrane surface. Therefore, the 
inertial lift force can be evaluated by the modified 
Stokes law. 
The net gravitational force exerted on a 
submerged particle can be expressed as: 
( ) 3
6 psg
gdF ρρπ −= .    (4) 
where ρs and ρ are the densities of particle and fluid, 
respectively. 
The interparticle forces should be taken into 
consideration for submicron particles. According to 
the DLVO theory, the net interparticle force can be 
calculated by summing the van der Waals and 
electrostatic forces. The detail calculation has been 
described in the authors’ previous study [3]. 
 
2.2 Particle deposition on the membrane surface 
Whether the particle can deposit stably or not is 
determined by the ratio of net tangential force to the 
friction force. A force balance model is used to 
determine the critical conditions of particle 
deposition [3, 4]. The particle deposition 
probability on the membrane surface is therefore 
considered as the fraction of the area for stable 
deposition to the total available area.  
On the other hand, a material balance for the 
transporting particles arriving at the membrane 
surface yields 
bpo
wpc
p Ndf
Ndf
dP
)(
)(
)( =     (5) 
where fc(dp) and fo(dp) are the frequency functions 
of the particles with a diameter of dp in the cake and 
suspension, respectively, Nb and Nw are the particle 
mass fluxes arriving at the membrane surface and 
those resulting deposition, respectively. All 
parameters in Eq.(5) can be measured in 
experiments. 
 
2.3 Cake properties 
Once the particle deposition probability is known, 
the cake mass, wc, can be estimated using the 
following integration: 
∫ ∫ ⎟⎠⎞⎜⎝⎛ ⋅⋅⋅= ∞t pppobc dtdddPdfqCw 0 0 )()(    (6) 
where Cb is the suspension concentration, and t is 
filtration time. 
The average specific cake filtration resistance can 
be calculated theoretically by comparing the 
Kozeny equation and the basic filtration theory, that 
is,  
( )
3
2 1
ερ
εα ⋅
−⋅=
s
o
av
kS        (7) 
where k is the Kozeny constant, ε is the cake 
porosity and So is the specific surface area of 
particles. The k value is 5.0 while the So value is 
equal to 6/dp for spherical particles. The cake 
porosity can be estimated using a free cell model 
for particle packing [3].  
 
    
   
2
0.1 1 10
dp  (μm)
1x10-18
1x10-17
1x10-16
1x10-15
1x10-14
1x10-13
1x10-12
1x10-11
1x10-10
F 
 (N
)
PMMA-7G
q = 1x10-4 m3/m2s
H = 1.05x10-20 J
ζ = -25 mV 
Fp
-Fi
Ft
Fg
Fl
 
Fig. 3 Force analysis on depositing particles 
 
 
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000
t  (s)
0
1
2
3
q 
 x
 1
04
 (m
3 /
m
2 s
)
0.1 wt% PMMA-7G 
ΔP = 26 kPa
ΔP = 40 kPa
ΔP = 54 kPa
ΔP = 80 kPa
 
Fig. 4 Time courses of filtration flux under 
various filtration pressures 
 
Figure 5 shows the cake growths during 
filtration under various filtration pressures. The 
cake mass quickly increases in the early periods of 
filtration. A higher filtration pressure leads to 
higher filtration flux, as a result, to higher cake 
growth rate. The increase in particles deposition is 
due to higher transported particle flux arriving at 
the membrane surface and larger drag force in the 
filtration direction. However, the cake growth rate 
gradually decreases after 3000 s. The cake mass 
under ΔP = 80 kPa is lighter than those under lower 
pressures. Less particle deposition occurring under 
higher pressure in later periods is because of the 
lower filtration flux, as shown in Fig.4. Since the 
lighter cake mass and lower filtration flux occurring 
under a higher pressure, a higher average specific 
cake filtration resistance under ΔP = 80 kPa can be 
expected. 
 
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000
t  (s)
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
w
c  
(k
g/
m
2 )
0.1 wt% PMMA-7G
ΔP = 80 kPa
ΔP = 54 kPa
ΔP = 40 kPa
ΔP = 26 kPa
 
Fig. 5 Cake growth under various pressures 
 
Figure 6 depicts the particle size distributions in 
the cake at different filtration times. The original 
particle size distribution in the suspension is also 
shown for comparison. The filtration pressure is 
fixed at 40 kPa. All particle size distributions in 
cake are smaller than that in the original suspension. 
This is because smaller particles are more stable 
staying on the membrane surface [4]. The particle 
stability is strongly dependent on the particle size 
and hydrodynamic conditions. Since the filtration 
flux attenuates during a filtration, the particle 
deposition probability decreases with time due to 
the decrease in the drag force in the filtration 
direction. This fact implies that the specific cake 
filtration resistance increases with time during a 
filtration. 
Figure 7 shows the comparisons of 
instantaneous particle deposition probability 
between the calculated results and experimental 
data at two different filtration times. The filtration 
pressure is fixed at 54 kPa. The experimental data 
are obtained by substituting measured data of 
particle size distributions and mass fluxes into Eq. 
(5), while the calculated results are obtained using 
the force balance model for particle deposition 
describing previously. The data show an interesting 
trend which is quite different from those in previous 
studies. The particle deposition probability 
decreases with particle size in the submicron region, 
reaches a minimum value at ca 0.8 - 1.0 μm due to 
the net interparticle force changing from repulsive 
to attractive, and then increases continuously until a 
    
   
4
    
   
6
increased its weighty as particle size exceeded 5 μm. 
The particle deposition probability, cake mass and 
average specific filtration resistance were calculated 
theoretically. Good agreements between calculated 
results and experimental data were obtained. 
  
6. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The authors wish to express their sincere 
gratitude to the National Science Council of the 
Republic of China for its financial support.  
 
7. NOMENCLATURE 
C1 = correction factor defined in Eq.(1) [-] 
C2 = correction factor defined in Eq.(2) [-] 
dp = particle diameter [m] 
fc(dp) = frequency function of size dp in cake [-] 
fo(dp) = frequency function of size dp in suspension 
Fg = gravitational force [N] 
Fi = net interparticle force [N] 
Fl = inertial lift force [N] 
Fp = drag force due to permeating flow [N] 
Ft = drag force due to suspension flow [N] 
k = Kozeny constant [-] 
Nb = mass flux of particles arriving at the 
membrane surface [kg/m2 s] 
Nw  = mass flux of particles deposition [kg/m2 s] 
P(dp) = probability of particle deposition [-] 
ΔP = filtration pressure [kPa] 
q = filtration flux [m3/m2 s] 
So  = specific surface area of particles [m2/m3] 
t = filtration time [s] 
vl = lift velocity of particles [m/s] 
wc = cake mass [kg/m2] 
αav = average specific cake filtration resistance 
[m/kg] 
ε = average cake porosity [-] 
μ = fluid viscosity [kg/m s] 
 
8. REFERENCES 
1) Hwang, K.J. and F.F. Chen, “Modeling of 
Particle Fouling and Membrane Blocking in 
Submerged Membrane Filtration”, Sep. Sci. 
Technol., 42(12), 2595-2614 (2007). 
2) Vasseur, P. and R.G. Cox; “The Laterial 
Migration of Spherical Particle in Two 
Dimensional Shear Flow”, J. Fluid Mech., 78, 
385-413 (1976) 
3) Hwang, K.J., H.C. Liu, W.M. Lu, “Local 
Properties of Cake in Cross-Flow 
Microfiltration of Submicron Particles”, J. 
Membr. Sci., 138, 181-192 (1998) 
4) Hwang, K.J., Y.L. Hsu, K.L. Tung, “Effect of 
Particle Size on the Performance of Cross-Flow 
Microfiltration”, Adv. Powder Technol., 17(2), 
189-202 (2006) 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃國楨 計畫編號：98-2221-E-032-016- 
計畫名稱：研發奈米軟膠體粒子之精密薄膜過濾技術 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
