行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫
□成果報告
v期中進度報告
生物啟發之功能性高分子:分子自組裝與生物醫學應用
Bioinspired Functional Polymers Containing Amino Acids, Saccharides, and Nucleic Acid:
Molecular Self-Assembly and Biomedical Applications
計畫類別：v個別型計畫 □整合型計畫
計畫編號：NSC 99－2628－E－006－003－
執行期間： 100 年 8 月 1日至 101 年 7月 31 日
執行機構及系所：國立成功大學化學工程學系
計畫主持人：詹正雄
共同主持人：
計畫參與人員：黃筠喬、陳雲耑、呂承勳
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：v精簡報告 □完整報告
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告：
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告
v 出席國際學術會議心得報告
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢
□涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，v一年□二年後可公開查詢
中 華 民 國 101 年 05 月 25 日
11. Introduction
Amphiphilic block copolymers that are able to self-assemble into nano-organized structures
including bilayers, micelles, and vesicles in selective solvents have been widely studied due to their
unique features distinct from low molecular weight lipid and surfactant molecules [1-5]. Of them,
polypeptide-based block copolymers have attracted growing attention due to their significance in
basic research and their potential applications in biomedical fields [5-10]. Incorporation of
polypeptide segments in block copolymers provides opportunities for the formation of novel
supramolecular structures and incorporation of functionality due to their tailorable chain
conformation and properties. The rapid advances in the studies of polypeptide-based block
copolymers over the last decade can partially thank to the development of several synthesis
approaches that ensure the live polymerization of N-carboxyanhydrides and avoid the unwanted side
rections.
2. Objective
We report the preparation and self-assembly of a series of amphiphilic block copolypeptides,
poly(L-lysine)-block-poly(L-tyrosine) (PLL-b-PLT). The influence of the block length on the
secondary conformations adopted by PLL and PLT segments and the corresponding self-assembled
structures were investigated using light scattering (LS), electron microscopy, circular dichroism (CD),
UV-vis, fluorescence, and critical aggregation concentration (cac). These copolypeptide
self-assemblies were cross-linked by UV in order to evaluate the feasibility of forming stable
structures. Moreover, conjugation of a saccharide group, lactobionolactone, onto the block
copolypeptides was studied and subsequently the as-prepared glycopeptides as targeted carriers for in
vitro drug release was evaluated. Due to their unique features, this new type of polymeric carriers is
expected to have potential applications in biomedical fields.
3. Experimental
Please refer to the publications for detailed experiments and characterization [15, 16].
4. Results and Discussion
Poly(Z-L-lysine)-block-poly(O-benzyl-L-tyrosine) (PZLL-b-PBLT) diblock copolypeptides were
synthesized via ring-opening polymerization by following reported procedure. 1H NMR
measurements confirmed the synthesis of PZLL-b-PBLT diblock copolypeptides (Figure 1b). The
protecting groups on the lysine and tyrosine blocks were removed by using HBr and Me3SiI,
respectively. 1H NMR spectra of the as-prepared diblock copolypeptides confirmed the remaining Z
and benzyl groups in the block copolypeptides were well below 7 % (Figure 1c).
each block can be determined as shown in Table 1.
the polypeptides were investigated using the fluorescence probe technique with pyrene as the
fluorescence probe. At neutral condition,
to increase with the increase of molecular weight except
the K230Y66 assemblies was found to be
confirmed that K16Y8, K66Y22, and K
observed ring structures (Figures 2a). In contrast, K
by the observed dense cores (Figure 2b).
Figure 2. TEM images of aggregates prepared
The hydrodynamic radii, <Rh>, of
analysis (Table 2) were found to consistent with those by TEM characterization. The hydrodynamic
radii of the vesicles were found to increase with the increase of molecular weight. The hydrodynamic
radius of the K230Y66 micelles was close to that of
the polydispersity index (PDI) values for
0.4, indicating that the size distributions
formed by these four block copolypeptides exhibit
Table 2. Light scattering (LS) results of supramolecular structures formed by PLL
copolypeptides and glycopeptide. a
Polypeptide <Rh>
K230Y66 157.7
K132Y40 160.2
3
The critical aggregation concentrations (cac) of
the cac values of the self-assembled structures were found
for the K230Y66 assemblies. The cac value of
close to that of the K16Y8 assemblies.
132Y40 self-assembled to form vesicles as evidenced by the
230Y66 self-assembled to form micelles, evidenced
from (a) K132Y40 and (b) K230Y66.
these polypeptide vesicles and micelles determined by LS
the K132Y40 vesicles. DLS analysis revealed that
these polypeptide vesicles and micelles were
were relatively narrow. The self-assembled structures
ed unimodal size distribution.
-b-PLT block
a (nm) PDI a <Rg> (nm)b <Rg>/<Rh>
0.27 125 0.79
0.25 151 0.94
TEM analysis
smaller than
Block copolypeptides are potential drug carriers due to their stable amide backbone, which is
unlikely to hydrolysis and hence can be preserved for a long period of time. After uptaking by the
cancerous cells, the release of encapsulated drug can be realized through enzymatic d
polypeptides. The notable example is cathepsin B, which has been found to involve in tumor growth
and formation of metastasis [11]. Conjugation of cell
copolypetpides can lead the as-prepared glycopeptides to be served as targeted drug carriers.
addition, their biocompatibility can be improved by reducing the charge density.
that positively charged PLL is suspected to be cytotoxic to cells. I
evaluation of conjugating lactobionic acid onto the PLL segment and using the as
glycopeptide as the drug carrier were investigated. The
example for conjugation of lactobionolactone, a model target
The synthesis procedure of Lac
lactobionolactone onto lysine was shown in Scheme 2.
with 50 % of saccharide/lysine graft ratio.
conjugation of the saccharide group, evidenced by the presence of the resonance peaks at
ppm (Figure 4). The graft ratio was calculated to be 43 %, based on the intensity ratio of the
resonance peaks at= 1.2~1.9 ppm (6 protons,
(10 protons, saccharide groups). It wa
disappeared, indicating the formation of self
glycopeptide assemblies was measured to be 89.8 nm
Figure 4. 1H NMR spectrum of Lac-g-K
5
-specific saccharide groups onto the block
It has been reported
t is for these reasons that the
K66Y22 block copolypeptide was taken as an
ed ligand to HepG2 liver cells
-g-PLL-b-PLT block copolypeptides by conjugating
The Lac-g-K66Y22 glycopeptide was prepared
The 1H NMR spectrum of the glycopeptide confirmed the
-CH (CH2)3 CH2NH-) to those at 
s also observed that the resonance peaks of the PLT block
-assembled structures. The hydrodynamic
by DLS analysis (Table 2).
66Y22 block copolypeptide in D2O.
egradation of
In
-prepared
[12, 13].
= 3.5~4.2
= 3.5~4.2 ppm
radius of the
7Figure 5. Cumulative release of Dox loaded within Lac-g-K66Y22 polymersomes in phosphate buffer
at (a) pH7.4 with proteinase k (0.2 mg/mL), (b) pH 7.4, (c) pH 4.7 (37 oC).
5. Conclusion
The as-synthesized poly(L-lysine)-b-poly(L-tyrosine) (PLL-b-PLT) block copolypeptides can
form self-assembled structures by directly dissolving in aqueous solution or nanoprecipitation. TEM
and LS analysis confirmed that K16Y8, K66Y22, and K132Y40 self-assembled to form vesicles and
K230Y66 self-assembled to form micelles at neutral condition. UV cross-linking of polypeptide
assemblies was confirmed by the presence of fluorescence emission at 410-430 nm upon excitation
at 350 nm and the results revealed that the K132Y40 vesicles and K230Y66 micelles can retain their
original morphologies after UV cross-linking. The block copolypeptides can be easily functionalized
by a variety of cell-targeted ligands as demonstrated by conjugation of lactobionolactone onto the
polypeptides. Dox-loaded glycopeptide vesicles were prepared with high encapsulation efficiency
and the in vitro drug release was studied. The drug-loaded particles can rapidly release drug
molecules upon the enzymatic degradation of the polypeptide assemblies. Future work will focus on
investigating the release of drug molecules in a controlled manner by varying the UV irradiation time.
Due to the molecular recognition ability of saccharide moieties, the in vivo application of this type of
amphiphilic glycopeptides as target drug carriers is under way in our laboratory.
References
1. Discher, D. E.; Eisenberg A. Science, 2002, 297, 967-973.
2. Kita-Tokarczyk, K.; Grumelard, J.; Haefele T.; Meier, W. Polymer, 2005, 46, 3540-3563.
國際學術會議報告
會議名稱: The International Symposia on Advancing the Chemical Sciences (ISACS)
2011 --- Challenges in Organic Materials & Supramolecular Chemistry
會議時間: 2011.09.02~2011.09.05
會議地點: 中國北京
報告人: 詹正雄 (Jeng-Shiung Jan)
國科會計畫編號: NSC99-2628-E-006-003
論文題目: Self-Assembly and Biomedical Applications of Alkyl Chain Grafted
Poly(L-lysine)
與會心得報告
The International Symposia on Advancing the Chemical Sciences (ISACS) 2011 ---
Challenges in Organic Materials & Supramolecular Chemistry 的議程安排許多很好
的演講有關雙性分子 (amphiphilic compound)、共聚高分子(block copolymer) 、
分子自組裝(supramolecular assembly)及相關材料之應用等的相關研究。本實驗室
目前亦進行相關這些領域之研究，因此本人參加此國際研討會，目的在於了解現
今相關這些領域之進展，希望能在此國際研討會中學習新知並從其中激發出新的
研究構想。
於研討會中我們發表研究聚縮氨酸 (graft copolypeptides) 的自組裝與應用為載
體之評估，摘要如下：
The synthesis and self-assembly of amphiphilic copolypeptides,
poly(L-lysine)-graft-hexanoyl (PLH), and their evaluation as carriers/encapsulants for
proteins and drugs have been investigated. The interplay between the hydrophobic
interaction and the chain conformational changes upon hexanoyl substitution
determined the self-assembly behavior of PLH, which further influenced the evolution
of the assembled nanostructures. The experimental data revealed that vesicles with
mean sizes between 100 and 500 nm were formed by these amphiphilic
copolypeptides in acidic and neutral aqueous solution. The hexanoyl substitution can
regulate the hydrophobic interaction, chain conformation of PLH, and subsequently
the size of the assembled vesicles at different pH. Taking the advantage of the
self-assembly capability, the PLH was employed for protein and drug encapsulation
with the encapsulation efficiency higher than 50%. For myoglobin (Mb)
encapsulation, the encapsulated protein was still capable of carrying oxygen, which
demonstrated that the PLH vesicles are promising carriers or encapsulants. The
protein-loaded PLH particles were further crosslinked by genipin to form stable
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
我們研究室研發的雙親性共聚多肽由於具備獨特的特性，我們預期這些雙親性
共聚多肽得以用於生化領域如:標靶型藥物載體、功能性微反應器或仿生膠囊。
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
