The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. The
system model and problem formulation are given in Sec. II.
Our proposed scheme is described in Sec. III, and Sec. IV
analyzes its end-to-end error performance. Sec. V presents the
numerical results. The paper is concluded in Sec. VI.
II. SYSTEM MODEL AND PROBLEM FORMULATION
Throughout the paper, we adopt the following notations:
Q(·) denotes the Q-function. For a random variable X , fX(·)
and FX(·) represent its probability density function (PDF) and
cumulative density function (CDF), respectively, and E(X)
is its expectation. ΦX(s) is the moment generating function
(MGF) of X defined as ΦX(s) = E[exp(−sX)]. For a circular
symmetric complex Gaussian random variable X with zero
mean and variance σ2, it is represented as X ∼ CN (0, σ2).
For a complex number c, its conjugate is denoted by c∗.
Also, some terminologies are specialized in our scheme: a
relay is the “demodulating relay” if performs demodulation,
and it is an “assisting relay” when it forwards the overheard
information.
A. System Model
The cooperative communication works as follows: when an
information source node s transmits to a destination node
d, other nodes act as potential relays r by forwarding the
overheard information according to a certain policy. For al-
truistic policy, each relay always contributes its radio resource
to cooperatively forward the source information. Assume there
are M relay nodes assisting one particular s−d pair. All nodes
are restricted to half-duplex radio, and cooperating relays
employ demodulate-and-forward (DmF) as the forwarding
discipline. When cooperative transmissions are employed, the
communications between s, r, and d form a two-hop link.
Each information bearing symbol x taken from a constella-
tion Ax is transmitted with power E . The received symbols at
a relay r and the destination d are
ysr =
√
Ehsrx + nsr
ysd =
√
Ehsdx + nsd (1)
where hsr and hsd denote the fading coefficients from s to the
r-th relay and d, respectively, modeled as hsr ∼ CN (0, σ2sr),
hsd ∼ CN (0, σ2sd), with σ2sr := E[|hsr|2] and σ2sd :=
E[|hsd|2]. The additive noise nsr and nsd are assumed to have
equal variances N0 and are modeled as nsr ∼ CN (0, N0)
and nsd ∼ CN (0, N0). Therefore, the instantaneous signal-to-
noise ratios (SNRs) of the direct link and the first-hop relay
link are γ0 = |hsd|2γ¯ and γsr = |hsr|2γ¯, respectively, with
γ¯ := E/N0.
If the r-th relay is selected as the assisting relays (the
selection criterion is detailed in Sec. III), it performs coherent
ML demodulation
xˆr = arg min
x ∈Ax
| ysr − hsrx |2, (2)
where some pilot symbols can be transmitted with the data
frame for coherent estimation. The detected symbol xˆr is re-
modulated and then transmitted to d using the same power E .
The received symbol at d is thus
yrd =
√
Ehrdxˆr + nrd (3)
where hrd denotes the channel coefficient of the second-hop
relay link, hrd ∼ CN (0, σ2rd) with σ2rd := E[|hrd|2], and
nrd ∼ CN (0, N0). Define H as the set containing all assisting
relays. The received signals combined at d is
yd = w0ysd +
|H|∑
r=1
wryrd, (4)
where w0 and wrd are the weight coefficients depending on
the combiner design. As a result, the ultimate estimate xˆ is
given by
xˆd = arg min
x ∈Ax
| yd −
√
E(w0h0 +
|H|∑
r=1
wrhrd)x |. (5)
B. Problem Formulation
The above system model has been commonly considered
for digital cooperative relaying and it achieves diversity com-
bining gain. However, its practical implementation remains
challenging due to the following reasons:
• Relays may receive in error when the s − r channel
is in deep fade. Performing error detection, such as
cyclic redundancy check (CRC) checking, can prevent
relays from propagating errors to the destination. Yet
requiring many relays to carry out CRC checking on a
per transmission basis would induce extensive overhead
since CRC checking usually takes place at the MAC layer.
Specifically, relays need to estimate the channel, demod-
ulate the received signals, and then pass the demodulated
signals to the MAC layer, before making the forwarding
decision. Such an overhead needs to be minimized.
• Due to error propagation, the conventional maximum
ratio combining (MRC) that achieves full diversity order
equal to the number of transmit antennas in MIMO
systems does not achieve the same gain in cooperative
relaying systems.
• For coherent combining, the destination needs the global
information of all the employed r − d channels.
The first issue can be resolved by employing a threshold
testing at relays. Instead of performing CRC checking, each
relay compares the SNR measured at the physical layer with
a certain threshold to make the forwarding decision. This
implies, the entire cooperative communication only needs
CRC checking once at the destination, same as the direct
retransmission without cooperative relaying. The idea of such
a threshold-based relaying strategy is similar to the selection
combining in conventional MIMO, but an arbitrary chosen
threshold does not guarantee any diversity order in cooperative
relaying.
To overcome the second issue, a low-complexity combiner
exploiting the knowledge of the instantaneous channel state
information (CSI) at the destination, termed cooperative MRC
(C-MRC), has been proposed in [6]. It is shown that C-MRC
where γ¯eq = γ¯sr γ¯rdγ¯sr+γ¯rd . Assuming i.i.d. γeq, (8) can be simpli-
fied by using (10) and taking the integral over γsd:
Pr (|D| = i) =
(
M
i
)∫ ∞
0
exp
(− izγ¯eq
) (
1− exp(− zγ¯eq
))M−i
× fγsd(z)dz. (11)
Expanding the factors of the integrand in binomial series gives
Pr (|D| = i) =
(
M
i
)∫ ∞
0
exp
(− izγ¯eq
)M−i∑
k=0
(
M − i
k
)
(−1)k
× exp(− kzγ¯eq
)
fγsd(z)dz. (12)
After some laborious effort, we obtain the following closed-
form result:
Pr (|D| = i) =
(
M
i
)M−i∑
k=0
(
M − i
k
)
(−1)k 1
(i + k)ν + 1
ν  γ¯sd
γ¯eq
, i = 0, 1, · · · ,M. (13)
All demodulating relays can participate in relay election by
sending a control packet in one of the minislots. Let L denote
the total number of minislots. Each relay uniformly selects
one minislot with probability 1/L, and becomes an assisting
relay if it transmits the control packet exclusively in the chosen
minislot. Let H denote the set of assisting relays. Given |D| =
i demodulating relays, the size of the assisting relay set H has
the following PDF:
Pr (|H| = h) =
⎧⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
( ii−h)
Li−h−1
∏h
j=1
L−j
L , h = 1, · · · , i− 2,∏i−1
j=0
L−j
L h = i,
0, h = i− 1,
1−∑ij=1 Pr (h = j) , h = 0.
(14)
In deriving (14), we use the facts that: i) 0 < h ≤ i de-
modulating relays successfully seize their exclusive minislots
when the remaining i − h demodulating relays collide in
contending the minislot; ii) Any collision is resulted from
at least two demodulating relays contending for the same
minislot. Therefore the probability of having i − 1 assisting
relay is zero.
Given the assisting relay set, the destination combines |H|
relayed signals plus the one from the direct transmission
using C-MRC. To compute the end-to-end BER, consider the
following two cases:
1) H = ∅: With a non-empty assisting relay set H, the
proposed PR scheme is equivalent to a cooperative combining
system with |H| independent branches. Consequently, the
instantaneous SNR of the C-MRC output is given by
γc = γsd +
|H|∑
r=1
γ(r)eq , (15)
where γ(r)eq denotes the equivalent SNR associated with r-
th relay. Using the MGF-based approach, the average BER
for BPSK modulation at the destination through cooperative
combining, conditioned on H, can be obtained as
P b(γc) =
1
π
∫ π/2
0
Φγc
(
− 1
sin2 θ
)
dθ. (16)
According to (15), the MGF of γc is given by
Φγc(s) = Φγsd(s)
|H|∏
r=1
Φ(r)γeq(s), (17)
where γsd is exponentially distributed with the MGF given by
Φγsd(s) = (1−sγ¯sd)−1. For γ(r)eq (s), its MGF can be obtained
via (9):
Φγeq(s) =
∫ ∞
0
f
γ
(r)
eq
(z)eszdz
=
1
1− sγ¯(r)eq
. (18)
With the aids of (8), (14), and (17), the average end-to-end
BER with cooperative combining is given by
P bc =
M∑
i=1
i∑
h=1
P b(γc) Pr
(|H| = h∣∣|D| = i)Pr (|D| = i) ,
(19)
where we have assumed L ≥ M .
2) H = ∅: An empty assisting relay set occurs when all
demodulating relays fail to seize a minislot, i.e., |D| > 0 but
|H| = 0, or when none of relays are eligible to participate
in relay election, i.e., |D| = 0. Consequently, the source will
retransmit after the relay election phase. The average BER
corresponding to direct transmissions can thus be given by
P bd =P
b(γsd)
{
Pr (|D| = 0) +
M∑
i=1
[
Pr
(|H| = 0∣∣|D| = i)
× Pr (|D| = i)
]}
, (20)
where P b(γsd) is the average BER due to combining two
independent copies of the same signal transmitted from the
source node. The resulting average BER P b(γsd) can be
computed using [7, Eq. (5A.4b)]
P b(γsd) = μ2
1∑
k=0
(
1 + k
k
)
(1− μ)k, (21)
μ  1
2
(
1−
√
γ¯sd
1 + γ¯sd
)
. (22)
The proposed PR scheme achieves diversity order as specified
in the following proposition.
Proposition 1: When the cooperative network employs PR
and C-MRC combiner, the achievable diversity order equals
(|H|+1), where |H| is the average number of assisting relay.
Proof: According to PR, a relay will forward the over-
heard information if it belongs to the assisting relay H.
Therefore, the number of relays that actually forward the
source information equals |H|, and the destination combines
(|H| + 1) copies of the same signal using C-MRC. Thus,
0 5 10 15 20 25
101
102
103
104
ASNR (dB)
Av
er
ag
e 
de
la
y 
(m
s)
One relay
Two relays
Three relays
Four relays
Five relays
Fig. 3. Average delay vs. number of relays.
0 5 10 15 20 25
102
104
106
108
1010
1012
ASNR (dB)
D
el
ay
 v
ar
ia
nc
e 
(m
s)
One relay
Two relays
Three relays
Four relays
Five relays
Fig. 4. Delay variance vs. number of relays.
ventional MRC as the combiner, and relays do not perform
CRC checking. Here, the s − d channel is configured to be
half of the s− r and r − d channels in terms of ASNR. The
number of relays is set to two and five. As shown in Fig. 5,
both schemes do not achieve full diversity order, but PR still
outperforms OR under the identical number of relays. The
improvement comes from the fact that PR employs multiple
relays as long as the individual s−r−d channel is superior to
the s−d channel. Notice in OR, only one best relay is selected
for combining with the direct transmission, With potential
demodulating errors at relays, however, OR does not benefit
from the diversity gain provided by multiple relays.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
A selective cooperative relaying scheme that achieves di-
versity combining gain within a bounded delay has been
proposed. The proposed scheme reduces MAC overhead for
error detection at relays by using the threshold testing where
0 5 10 15 20 25
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
ASNR (dB)
En
d−
to
−e
nd
 B
ER
Probabilistic relaying (2 relays)
Opportunistic relaying (2 relays)
Probabilistic relaying (5 relays)
Opportunistic relaying (5 relays)
Fig. 5. Comparison between PR and OR both using MRC with two and five
relays, (γ¯sr, γ¯rd, γ¯sd) = (γ¯, γ¯, γ¯/2), and 10 minislots in PR.
the threshold is determined based on the notion of equivalent
SNR of the end-to-end channel in digital relaying. Along
with the use of a C-MRC combiner, the proposed scheme
achieves diversity order equal to the average number of relays
surviving the election phase, whose duration is insensitive to
the network density. Compared with opportunistic relaying that
may achieve a high diversity order but requiring perfect error
detection at relays, the proposed scheme incurs a limited and
constant delay only, while the delay in the opportunistic relay-
ing is non-deterministic with a large variance. In the present
work, accurate and full CSI is assumed. How to achieve
the comparable performance in the presence of inaccurate or
partial CSI deserves further research.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported by National Science Council,
Taiwan, under the grant NSC 98-2221-E-006 -085.
REFERENCES
[1] J. N. Laneman and G. W. Wornell, “Distributed space-time coded pro-
tocols for exploiting cooperative diversity in wireless networks,” IEEE
Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 59, no. 10, pp. 2415–2525, Oct. 2003.
[2] C. Figuera, E. Morgado, A. J. Caamano, and A. Cano, “Direct link aware
cooperative relaying,” in Proc. ISWCS’06, Valencia Spain, Sept. 5-8 2006.
[3] F. A. Onat, A. Adinoyi, Y. Fan, H. Yanikomeroglu, J. S. Thompson, and
I. D. Marsland, “Threshold selection for SNR-based selective digital re-
laying in cooperative wireless networks,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun.,
vol. 7, no. 11, pp. 4226–4237, Nov. 2008.
[4] E. Beres and R. Adve, “Selection cooperation in multi-source cooperative
networks,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 118–127,
Jan. 2008.
[5] A. Bletsas, A. Khisti, D. Reed, and A. Lippman, “A simple cooperative
diversity method based on network path selection,” IEEE J. Select. Area
Commun., vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 659–673, Mar. 2006.
[6] T. Wang, T. Cano, G. B. Giannakis, and J. N. Laneman, “High-
performance cooperative demodulation with decode-and-forward relays,”
IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 55, no. 7, pp. 1427–1438, July 2007.
[7] M. K. Simon and M.-S. Alouini, Digital Communication over Fading
Channels, 2nd ed. Wiley-Interscience, 2003.
[8] IEEE TG 15.4, Part 15.4: Wireless Medium Access Control (MAC) and
Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications for Low-Rate Wireless Personal Area
Networks (LR-WPANs), IEEE-SA Standards Board Std. Feb., 2003.
1 About IEEE WCNC
IEEE WCNC is one of the globally recognized event in the area of wireless broadband and
information networking. Through its annual event, researchers from industry and academia
gather to share the latest innovations in wireless technologies.
This year, the conference began its four-day agenda on Sunday, April 18 with a full day
tutorials and workshops dedicated to various advanced technologies in present and future
wireless communications. On the following three days, the conference then launched its
comprehensive schedule of keynote addresses, high-level business panels and technical ses-
sions. The technical sessions, including four major topics, were crowded by more than 700
international professionals and 500 technical presentations.
The conference was featured by several highly-anticipated events, such as the keynote
addresses “The Future of Wireless Communications” given by Dr. Adam T. Drobot from
Telcordia Technologies Limited, “The future of the Mobile Internet” by Dr. Hugh S. Brad-
low, and “A New World of Cognitive and Agile Networks” by Prof. Khaled Ben Letaief
of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, and so on. Additional conference
highlights included the presentations of technical papers ranging in subjects from DCF sys-
tem dynamics, global grassroot WiFi sharing, cooperative spectrum sensing and multi-cell
coordinated beamforming to cognitive constrained pulse shaping and satellite multimedia
networing.
2 My Activities at the Conference
My presentation was scheduled on April 20 in session #MAC18. The paper addressed the
strategy of fast relay selection in cooperative relay networks, as one of the most important
issue in cooperative communications, and it received the Best Paper Award from the MAC
2
A Delay-Bounded Relaying Diversity Scheme in
Digital Cooperative Wireless Networks
Kuang-Hao Liu
Department of Electrical Engineering
National Cheng Kung University
Tainan, Taiwan 701
Email: khliu@mail.ncku.edu.tw
Abstract—Relay-assisted cooperative communication has re-
ceived considerable attention as a promising approach to alleviate
the burden of installing multiple antennas on simple terminals
but still achieving transmit diversity. In most prior work, perfect
error detection is assumed to prevent relays that receive in
error from forwarding. Since error detection is often performed
at the medium access control (MAC) layer, each relay in the
network needs to pass the received signal from the physical
layer to the MAC layer before making the forwarding decision,
resulting in the overhead that may not be necessary. Selection
relaying thus has been proposed to avoid the MAC overhead
at relays. The required election phase in selection relaying,
however, needs to last for a deterministic duration proportional
to the number of relays in a coordinated manner, or a non-
deterministic duration in the absence of coordination. In this
paper, we propose a cooperative relaying scheme that achieves
diversity gain with a constant delay that is insensitive to the
network size. In the proposed scheme, relays perform threshold
testing instead of error detection, and a fix duration is allocated
for the election phase. We analyze the end-to-end bit error rate
(BER) of the proposed scheme in closed-form expressions, and
prove the achievable diversity order. Numerical results are given
to demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed scheme
over the direct retransmission and the well-known opportunistic
relaying scheme in terms of the end-to-end BER, average delay
and delay variance.
I. INTRODUCTION
Recently the notion of cooperative communication based
on relay stations for wireless networks has received consid-
erable attention in the research community. The idea is to
let nodes in the network assist their neighbors by forwarding
the overheard information thanks to the broadcast nature of
wireless transmission. As such, each node acts as a distributed
element in the virtual antenna array to exploit spatial diversity.
The cooperative communication thus allows single-antenna
devices to enjoy nearly the same benefits provided by more
sophisticated multiple-input-multiple-output (MIMO) systems.
Unlike MIMO systems where all the transmit antennas can
be fully employed to leverage the diversity gain, relays might
receive in error and thus simply allowing all the relays to for-
ward their overheard information does not achieve the identical
performance as that in MIMO. Selective relaying is imperative
to ensure the cooperation via noncollocated antennas, i.e.,
intermediate relays, can improve the transmission reliability.
Various relay selection criteria have been studied in the pre-
vious work. The simplest and commonly considered principle
of selective relaying is to restrict cooperating relays to those
that can fully decode, in the context of decode-and-forward
relaying operation. Known as the decoding set [1], trans-
missions from this set of relays combined at the destination
achieves full diversity order equal to the size of the decoding
set. In principle, error detection codes inherent in most data
communications can be used to decide if a relay is in the
decoding set. However, error detection is usually performed at
the medium access control (MAC) layer, the received signals
thus need to be first demodulated at the physical layer and then
passed to the MAC layer for making the forwarding decision.
In fact, requiring each relay to perform error detection against
the overheard signal is not necessary. Some efforts, e.g.,
threshold-based relaying [2], [3], thus have been devoted to
explore alternatives that minimize the extra overhead incurred
in cooperative communications.
Furthermore, it is commonly assumed that the destination
picks a single best relay based on the information collected
during an election phase [4], in which each potential relay
notifies the destination about their status. Since the number of
potential relays is not known priori, a dedicated channel, e.g.,
time slot, must be assigned to every relay node in the network.
An alternative approach is to employ the contention-based
election phase [5]. The former causes a delay proportional to
the network size, and the latter suffers from non-deterministic
delay.
In this paper, we propose a selective relaying diversity
scheme using only physical-layer operation at relays in a low
and bounded delay. To cope with potential forwarding errors
at relays, a relay selection criterion is proposed based on
the equivalent signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) suggested in [6]
that accounts for possible error propagation. Each relay can
locally make the decision on participating in the election phase
when their cooperative forwarding is better off than the direct
retransmission. A relay election phase consisting of a fixed
number of time slots takes place if the source transmission
fails. Each eligible relay then randomly selects a time slot
to notify the destination. Finally, the destination broadcasts
the selection result thereby the selected relays transmit. We
analyze the end-to-end error rate performance of the proposed
scheme in closed expressions, and compare its performance
with the well-known opportunistic relaying scheme [5] in
terms of the error rate and delay.
offers full diversity even when error detection codes are not
used, and thus we adopt it as the signal combining approach
of the proposed cooperative relaying scheme.
The third issue presents the most challenge but has been
commonly ignored in the previous work. Since each r − d
channel represents a distributed antenna that needs to be
trained for receiver combining, the incurred overhead can
be significant if the number of relays is large. Additionally,
managing the relays by either the source or the destination
to send pilot symbols for channel estimation node may be
difficult, because neither the destination nor the source node
can be aware of the relay status, namely, whether a relay is
capable of overhearing the source transmission.
III. PROPOSED COOPERATIVE RELAYING SCHEME
In this section, we propose a cooperative relaying protocol
called probabilistic relaying (PR). PR only relies on physical-
layer processing for performing cooperative relaying without
involving the overhead at the MAC layer. Besides, PR utilizes
the identical amount of resource for error detection as in
conventional point-to-point communications while improves
the transmission reliability significantly. This is achieved in
a bounded delay insensitive to the network size.
The PR scheme works as follows. A transmission process
starts by a source node sending a data packet (DATA) to the
destination via broadcasting. Upon receiving, the destination
estimates the channel s − d, performs CRC checking, and
announces the result by broadcasting as in conventional auto
repeat request (ARQ) protocols. When DATA is received
correctly, an acknowledgement (ACK) is sent and the source
can proceed to transmit the next data packet. In case errors are
detected, the destination piggybacks the measured γsd in the
negative ACK (NACK), which initiates a relay election phase
followed by the retransmission phase. The relay election phase
consists of several minislots, whose number is announced by
the destination during NACK broadcasting. A relay decides
whether to demodulate the received signals based on the
instantaneous SNRs of the s−r and r−d channels, where γsd
and γrd are measured during DATA and NACK transmissions,
respectively. Along with γsd piggybacked in NACK, a relay
demodulates DATA if the following condition holds:
min(γsr, γrd) := γeq ≥ γsd, (6)
where γeq defines the equivalent SNR of a s− r− d channel.
Otherwise, the relay discards the received information and
remains silent. A demodulating relay randomly selects a
minislot to notify the destination about its status. Based on the
collected information, the destination sends an announcement
packet (ANC) indicating the selected relays at the end of the
relay election phase. A relay serves as the assisting relay if
it transmitted exclusively during its chosen minislot. Given
M relays in the network, the ANC is of log2(M) bits long.
If the destination can not find any assisting relay, it assigns
the source to retransmit. Finally, the destination combines the
received signals from both the source and assisting relays using
C-MRC, where the weight coefficients are given by [6]
w0 = h∗sd, wr =
γeq
γrd
h∗rd. (7)
A key to determine the efficacy of PR is the number of
minislots employed for relay selection, which is a degree of
freedom for the destination to exploit the transmit diversity.
The destination may choose a proper length of the election
phase according to the amount of time left before the expected
packet arrival time expires. Meanwhile, the selection criterion
in (6) has the following merits: i) it helps to reduce the
contention during the relay election phase; ii) it is irrelevant to
the number of relays in the network. Instead, the instantaneous
channel status associated with each relay matters. The rationale
is that, a relay channel based on DmF operation without CRC
checking contributes an equivalent SNR γeq to the C-MRC
combiner [6]. Therefore, a relay channel should not be selected
for retransmission unless its equivalent SNR is superior to that
of the direct channel. In the next section, we analyze the end-
to-end BER and the achievable diversity order of the proposed
PR scheme.
IV. PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
We consider that all signals are modulated using binary
phase shift keying (BPSK), and the destination combines the
received signals using C-MRC combiner. Analysis for higher-
order modulation can be performed in the similar manner, but
is omitted here due to space limit. For simplicity, the retry
number of a failed transmission is one. Define the demodu-
lating relay set, D, as the set of relays that pass the threshold
testing specified in (6), i.e., D = {r∣∣γ(r)eq ≥ γsd}, where γ(r)eq
denotes the equivalent SNR associated with a demodulating
relay r. The probability of having |D| demodulating relay is
given by
Pr
[ |D| = i ] =
(Mi )∑
j=1
{ i∏
k=1
Pr
[
γ
(Aj
k
)
eq ≥ γsd
]×
M−i∏
l=1
Pr
[
γ
(Bj
l
)
eq < γsd
]}
, (8)
where i = 0, 1 · · · ,M , Aj (Bj) denotes the set of i (M − i)
distinct elements from the set {1, 2, · · · ,M}; Ajk (Bkl ) is
the k-th (l-th) element of Aj(Bj). In (8), the first summand
represents the probability that i out of M relays perform
demodulating, and this probability depends on the channel
statistics. For Rayleigh fading channel, the instantaneous SNR
can be modeled as an exponential random variable. Since
the minimum of two independent and identically distributed
(i.i.d.) exponential random variables are still exponentially
distributed, γeq has the following PDF and CDF
fγeq(z) =
1
γ¯eq
ez/γ¯eq , (9)
Fγeq(z) = 1− e−z/γ¯eq , (10)
the proposed PR reduces to a (|H| + 1)-branch cooperation
scheme where all assisting relays utilize the DmF strategy and
the destination combines the received signal using C-MRC.
According to [6, Prop. 2], such a cooperative relaying system
achieves the diversity order (|H|+1), where |H| is the average
number of assisting relays.
It can be seen that the achievable diversity of PR is dominated
by the number of assisdenice2go deting relays. For a fixed
length of election phase, we can determine the average number
of assisting relays, which will be shown in the numerical
results.
V. NUMERICAL RESULTS
This section shows some selected results to demonstrate
the performance of the proposed PR scheme. Simulations
are performed to validate the analytical results. All results
are obtained by considering BPSK modulation over Rayleigh
fading channel. The efficacy of γeq in approximating the end-
to-end SNR of the s−r−d channel in the context of C-MRC
has been verified, but it is omitted here due to space limit.
0 5 10 15 20
10−5
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
ASNR (dB)
En
d−
to
−e
nd
 B
ER
PR + C−MRC (anal)
PR + C−MRC (simu)
Direct transmission
1/SNR2
Fig. 1. End-to-end BER of probabilistic relaying (PR) using C-MRC
combiner with one relay and 10 minislots, (γ¯sr, γ¯rd, γ¯sd) = (γ¯, γ¯, γ¯).
Fig. 1 shows the end-to-end BER versus average SNR
(ASNR) of PR obtained from both analytical equations and
simulations, which match closely. With a single relay, PR
achieves diversity order two, according to Proposition 1. This
can be seen by comparing with the curve obtained using
1/SNR2. The result of direct transmission is also given to
demonstrate the improvement of the proposed scheme.
To evaluate how the number of assisting relays varies with
the length of relay election phase, we simulate the successful
ratio S, defined as S := |H|/|D|, under different number of
minislots L in Fig. 2. It can be seen that, a small number of
minislots is sufficient to provide a high successful ratio. For
example, an election phase of 10 minislots long can produce
around 4 assisting relays in average from 8 demodulating
relays. Notice that the successful ratio mainly depends on the
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Number of demodulating relays
Su
cc
es
sf
ul
 ra
tio
 S
 (%
)
L=10
L=15
Fig. 2. The ratio between the number of demodulating relays and assisting
relays with 10 and 15 minislots.
number of demodulating relays, or equivalently, the instanta-
neous channel condition, rather the number of relays in the
network. This is beneficial to shorten the election phase as the
number of relays satisfying the selection criterion is usually
limited.
We further compare the delay performance induced in the
proposed PR, with the opportunistic relaying (OR) [5]. In
OR, a backoff mechanism is employed to selected one best
relay. Each relay sets a backoff timer as t = λ/a, where
a  min{|hsr|2, |hrd|2}, and λ is a parameter chosen to
maintain a low collision probability. As suggested in [5], one
can decide λ such that c/λ ≈ 1/200, where c is a time interval
dominated by the turn-around time of half-duplex radios. Take
sensor networks for example, the turn-around time of an
IEEE 802.15.4 [8]-compliant FreeScale MC13192 transceiver
is 144 μs. The value of c that ensures the collision probability
less than 0.6% can be chosen as 28.9 ms. On the other hand,
PR incurs a constant delay equal to the number of minislots
contained in the election phase. The duration of a minislot
depends on the transmission rate supported by the physical
layer. For IEEE 802.15.4, a slot time is 320 μs under 250 kbps
transmission rate. Since the minislot is used for sending very
small control packets only, a minislot length should be less
than a slot time for IEEE 802.15.4 radios. Based on the above
parameters, we simulate OR for 100,000 symbols and average
the results obtained from 10 independent rounds. As shown in
Fig. 3, the average delay incurred in OR is about several tens
milliseconds for two to five relays, which is much larger than
a minislot length in PR. Fig. 4 depicts the corresponding delay
variance. It can be seen that, more relays helps to mitigate the
delay and delay variance, as a direct consequence of diversity
selection. However, the backoff mechanism used in OR for
relay election unavoidably leads to large variance in delay.
Finally, we compare the end-to-end BER of OR and the
proposed PR. In this comparison, both schemes employ con-
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
研討會論文獲得 IEEE WCNC 2010 最佳論文獎 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
