based contextual advertising. The proposed SOCA 
(Sentiment-Oriented Contextual Advertising) framework 
aims to combine contextual advertising matching with 
sentiment analysis to select ads that are related to 
the positive (and neutral) aspects of a blog and rank 
them according to their relevance.  
On the other hand, although most contextual 
advertising scheme considers Web surfers as the ad 
consumer, bloggers themselves are the constant 
visitors of their own blogs. Thus, it is worth that 
the advertising scheme put in the first place the 
interests or intention of the content creators. Thus, 
in the second year of the project, we propose BCCA 
(Blogger-Centric Contextual Advertising) framework 
which combines contextual advertising matching with 
text mining technique to select ads that are related 
to immediate interests as revealed in a blog and rank 
them according to their relevance. We will 
experimentally validate our approach using a set of 
data that includes both real ads and actual blog 
pages using metrics of information retrieval.  
 
英文關鍵詞： Web Advertising, Sentiment Detection, Machine 
Learning, Information Retrieval, Intension 
Recognition 
 
2以情緒偵測與部落客為中心之線上廣告配置
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-008-099
執行期限：2010年 08月 01日至 2011年 10月 31日
主持人：張嘉惠 資訊電機學院資訊工程學系
計畫參與人員：范登凱 資訊電機學院資訊工程研究所
相關論文請參見 Blogger-Centric Contextual Advertising, Journal of Expert Systems With
Applications (SCI), Vol. 38, Issue 3, Pages 1777-1788, (Mar. 2011). (IF:2.908)
I. Abstract
Web advertising (online advertising), a form of advertising that uses the World Wide Web to
attract customers, has become one of the most commonly-used marketing channels. This paper
addresses the concept of Blogger-Centric Contextual Advertising, which refers to the assignment
of personal ads to any blogpage, chosen in according to bloggers’ interests. As blogs become a
platform for expressing personal opinions, they naturally contain various kinds of statements,
including facts, comments and statements about personal interests, of both a positive and
negative nature. To extend the concept behind the Long Tail theory in contextual advertising, we
argue that web bloggers, as the constant visitors of their own blog-sites, could be potential
consumers who will respond to ads on their own blogs. Hence, in this paper, we propose using
text mining techniques to discover bloggers’ immediate personal interests in order to improve
online contextual advertising. The proposed Blogger-Centric Contextual Advertising (BCCA)
framework aims to combine contextual advertising matching with text mining in order to select
ads that are related to personal interests as revealed in a blog and rank them according to their
relevance. We validate our approach experimentally using a set of data that includes both real
ads and actual blog pages. The results indicate that our proposed method could effectively
identify those ads that are positively-correlated witha blogger’s personal interests.
Keyword：Online advertising, Text mining, Machine learning, Marketing, Information retrieval,
Language model
II. Introduction
Blogosphere is a collective term comprising all blogs and their interconnections. A blog, short
for weblog, is a type of web site that is usually maintained by a blogger who will publish serial
journal posts containing news, comments, opinions, diaries, and interesting articles. As of
December 2007, the blog search engine Technorati1 was tracking more than 112 million blogs.
Reports also indicate that about 1.2 million new blogs are being created worldwide each day.
According to Technorati’s reports in April 2007, the number of blogs in the top 100 most
popular sites has risen substantially. Hence, blogs continue to become more and more viable
news and information outlets.
Blogs are also an increasingly attractive platform for advertisers. The majority of bloggers
4For example, Fig. 1 shows a weblog with five ads related to traveling placed on the right.
Since the content of this page describes reasons for cancelling a trip, these traveling ads are
unlikely to be clicked. Instead, what the blogger needs is medical information or information on
doctors. The point here is that an ad agency system could assign relevant ads according to
bloggers’own interests, especially their immediate interest or intentions, for targeting ads, thus
treating bloggers as the main visitors of their own blogs. To this end, even if an ad is related to
the content of a linking page, an ad agency should preferentially consider the immediate interests
expressed on the page (i.e., intentions) for placing ads.
In this paper, we proposed an ad matching mechanism, which we refer to as Blogger-Centric
Contextual Advertising (BCCA), and which is based on latent interest detection to associate ads
with blog pages. Instead of the traditional placement of relevant ads, BCCA emphasizes that the
ad agency’s system should provide relevant ads that are related to different levels of personal
preferences in order to increase clicks. To evaluate our proposed method, we used a real-word
collection comprised of ads and blog pages from Google AdSense and Google’s Blog-Search
Engine,2 respectively. Our results show that the proposed approach, based on text mining can
effectively recognize the latent interests (e.g., intentions) in a blog page, or the personal interests
of the blogger. In addition, we further investigated the effects of ad page matching using an ad
Click-Through-Rate (CTR) experiment, and our results suggest that our proposed method can
effectively match relevant ads to a given blog page.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 provides background information on
current online advertising. Section 3 introduces our methodology. The experimental results are
presented in Section 4. Section 5 outlines some related work. Finally, we present conclusions and
future directions in Section 6.
III. BCCA framework
Traditional contextual advertising processes a given page a user visits to find related topics for
matching ads, while Blogger-Centric Contextual Advertising would assign ads to a given blog
page in accordance with the blogger’s interests. Before demonstrating the proposed framework,
we will explain how bloggers’personal interests could be obtained. Generally speaking, an
individual blog often contains profile information, tags and posts, which we could classify as
indicating different levels of interest.
3.1. Profile-level
Blog service providers (e.g., BlogSpot.com and Technorati.com) usually ask bloggers’to enter
interests to build their profiles (e.g., music, movies, reading, and other leisure pursuits) when
they register as a member of the service. In addition to generic interests collected at registration
time, the tags on posts or the archive of past posts can be used to construct bloggers’profiles,
showing their specific interests. Since these kinds of interest continue for a period of time, we
view them as long-term interests. In this paper, we assumed that each blog-site has an interest
profile containing either generic or specific long-term interests.
6triggering-level interests (i.e., shortterm interests) have higher priority than profile-level interests
(long-term interests). Thus, the sentiment detection module is invoked only when no positive
intention is detected. If neither module detects intention or positive sentences, the system should
then use targets from the blogger’s profile.
Next, the system proceeds to term expansion and the target-ad matching agency. Due to the
short form of ads and targets, we designed a term expansion component to enhance the
likelihood of intersection between targets and available ads. Finally, a retrieval function based on
a query likelihood language model is deployed for the target-ad matching strategy to rank the ads.
The pseudo code for our ad assignment strategies is shown in Fig. 3.
Fig. 3. Pseudo code of ads assignment strategies.
3.3. Intention recognition
Given a triggering page, our aim in this section is to explain the process of recognizing
whether there exist any intention-bearing sentences. By modeling this problem one of
classification, our job here is the preparation of training sentences which must be labeled as
intentional or non-intentional.
3.4. Sentiment detection
Our aim in this section is to apply a contextual sentiment technique for recognizing the
sentiment of a blog page. Generally, researchers study opinions at three different levels: the word
level, sentence level, and document level (Esuli & Sebastiani, 2006; Kim & Hovy, 2006; Ku, Ho,
& Chen, 2009; Yu & Hatzivassiloglou, 2003). For this study, we need to identify whether a
sentence is neutral, positive or negative. To build an efficient learning model, we divided the
task of detecting the sentiment of a sentence into two steps, each of which belongs to a binary
classification problem. The first is an identification step that aims to identify whether the
sentence is subjective or objective. The second is a classification step that classifies the
subjective sentences as positive or negative.
3.5. Ad content indexing
In the Section 3.4, we discussed the scoring function for an ad given the triggering blog page.
8ChoiceStream. (2005). ChoiceStream personalization survey: Consumer trends and perceptions.
http://www.choicestream.com/pdf/ChoiceStream_Personalization-SurveyResults2005.pdf.
Esuli, A., & Sebastiani, F. (2006). In SENTIWORDNET: A publicly available lexical resource
for opinion mining. In Proceedings of the 5th conference on language resources and
evaluation (CLRE’06) (pp. 417–422).
Fan, T.-K., & Chang, C.-H. (2009). Sentiment-oriented contextual advertising. In The 31st
European conference on information retrieval (ECIR’09), LNCS, 5478,(pp. 202–215).
Kazienko, P., & Adamski, M. (2007). AdROSA-adaptive personalization of web advertising.
Information Sciences, 177(11), 2269–2295.
Kim, S.-M., & Hovy, E. (2006). Automatic Identification of Pro and Con Reasons in Online
Reviews. In Proceedings of the COLING/ACL on main conference poster sessions (ACM
ACL ‘06) (pp. 483–490). Sydney: ACL.
Ku, L.-W., Ho, H.-W., & Chen, H.-H. (2009). Opinion mining and relationship discovery using
CopeOpi opinion analysis system. Journal of the American Society for Information Science
and Technology, 60(7), 1486–1503.
OneUpWeb. (January 2005). How keyword length affects conversion rates.
http://www.oneupweb.com/landing/keywordstudy_landing.htm.
Technorati: Blogging For Profit. 2008. http://technorati.com/blogging/state-of-theblogosphere/
blogging-for-profit/.
Wang, C., Zhang, P., Choi, R., & D’Eredita, M. (2002). Understanding consumers attitude
toward advertising. In Eighth Americas conference on information systems (pp. 1143–1148).
Yu, H., & Hatzivassiloglou, V. (2003). Towards answering opinion questions: Separating facts
from opinions and identifying the polarity of opinion sentences. In Proceedings of the 2003
conference on empirical methods in natural language processing (EMNLP’03) (pp. 129–136).
ACL.
Zhang, Y., Surendran, A. C., Platt, J. C., & Narasimhan, M. (2008). Learning from multi-topic
web documents for contextual advertisement. In Proceeding of the 14th international
conference on knowledge discovery and data mining (ACM SIGKDD’08) (pp. 1051–1059).
Las Vegas: ACM.
2出更好的分群結果，實際上透過實驗結果驗證，我們的假設是正確的，分群結果也不錯。藉由此次參
加研討會，分享研究成果，並汲取來自八方學者的意見，以期望讓研究更能做到最好。
二、與會心得
8/27 從台北桃園機場出發，於巴黎轉機前往圖盧茲，8/28 下榻 Etap Hotel，8/29-9/2 於 Paul
Sabatier 大學參加 DaWak 2011 國際會議，我們的報告為 8/30 早上 9點這場。
這是我第一次出席 DaWak 2011 國際會議，第一次到法國圖盧茲這個城市，一下飛機，就被這裡的城
市景觀給吸引，中世紀的建築、清新的空氣、乾淨的街道。
關於此次參予這次會議，我覺得收穫挺多的，除了知識上的交流之外，讓我拓展了國際的視野；也讓
我跟許多不同國家的學生交流，了解其他學生它們是怎麼準備他們的研究，他們的生活習慣，民情風
俗等等，是個挺有意思的經驗。希望未來有機會的話，還要再參加像 DaWak 這等隆重的盛會。
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)：無
四、建議
這次會議規畫得很好，主辦單位也幫與會者準備了週票型的地鐵卡、英文版的旅遊地圖、旅遊折
扣卡、3日晚餐券、5日午餐券、Proceeding、背包等等，省下許多開銷。
五、攜回資料名稱及內容：一會議手冊
六、其他：無
4三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)：
由於會議地點北京飯店與北京故宮相距不遠，因此有機會可以入內參觀。
四、建議：無
五、攜回資料名稱及內容：會議手冊
六、其他：無
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張嘉惠 計畫編號：99-2221-E-008-099- 
計畫名稱：以情緒偵測與部落客為中心之線上廣告配置 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 2 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
