22. Contractors’Pricing Behavior under the Competitive Bidding System
The basic principle behind competitive bidding is that the system protects the public from
extravagance, corruption, and other improper practices by public officials (Cohen 1961). The
system also encourages efficiency and innovation by contractors (Assaf et al. 1998). However,
Clough (1994) proposed that the competitive bidding system sometimes leads to the selection of
incompetent contractors, excessive claims by a contractor against an owner, disputes and
litigation between parties, and other problems. This section is designed to address the
aforementioned points from a system perspective.
This section theoretically reviews the previous research and depicts contractors’behavioral
feedback loops generated from the use of the competitive bidding system. The feedback loops
are classified into three groups: (a) the feedback loops generated from the price competition
process, (b) the feedback loops generated from contractors’cost reduction, and (c) the adverse
feedback loops generated from contractors’opportunistic bidding behavior.
2.1 The Feedback Loops Generated from the Price Competition Process
There are two feedback loops generated from the process of price competition. One is a
reinforcing feedback loop and the other one is a balancing feedback loop.
1.The reinforcing feedback loop, R1.
The Bertrand competition model of Economics proposed that, in a price competition
environment, companies will assess and predict prices that their competitors may offer before
they determine their own price (Carlton and Perloff 2000). Accordingly, the bidding prices of
previous tenders (hereafter termed market price) are important references for bidders of
subsequent tenders and have feedback relationships with contractors’bidding prices as shown in
Fig. 1. The market price is an index changing with the recent award prices. The previous
bidding prices sequentially affect contractors’pricing in the subsequent tenders and form a
reinforcing feedback loop, which allows project owners to obtain economical benefits, as loop R1
in Fig. 1. The positive sign, “+”, indicates that a change in the causal variable (market price)
will cause a change in the variable (bidding price) toward the same direction.
2. The balancing feedback loop, B1.
Runeson and Raftery (1998) applied micro-economic theory to analyze the competitive
market in the construction industry and proposed that price is determined by the interaction of
demand and supply. Ngai et al. (2002) proposed that the changes in demand and/or supply will
change the level of competition and the award price level. The level of competition is usually
observed and measured by the number of competitors.
Previous research related to contractors’competitive bidding models have shown that a
contractor’s bidding price will be affected by the number of competitors (Freidman 1956, Carr
1983). As the number of competitors increase, contractors’bidding price decrease. This
opposite relationship is represented by a negative sign, “-”, as shown in Fig. 1. Furthermore,
several studies have suggested that companies will leave or enter a market because of changes in
profit level (Gruneberg and Ive 2000, Hillebrandt 2000, Runeson 2000). These findings clearly
depict an identical causal relationship between market price and number of competitors.
According to the aforementioned, a balancing feedback loop, B1, coherent with the
competitive market, is discovered. A higher market price will attract more competitors, but
these competitors have to steeply cut prices to win contracts in the increasingly competitive
market. Consequently, the market price might dramatically drop down and force some
competitors to quit the market. This balancing feedback process depicts a company’s behavior
4Note: It is observed that R&D might not be successful and will increase a company’s cost.
This figure is only used to demonstrate the benefits of R&D.
Fig. 2 The feedback loops generated from contractors’cost reductions.
2.3 The Adverse Feedback Loops Generated from Opportunistic Bidding
Under the competitive bidding system, contractors may win the bid by tendering an
abnormally low bid, accidentally or deliberately (Grogan 1992). Previous studies have proposed
that construction claims can be one of the sources to promote contractors’deliberate price cutting
behavior. As this paper considers the cost reductions through cutting corners and the
compensations gained from claims as beyond-contractual reward (BCR), it is logical to infer that
contractors will opportunistically cut the bidding price to take more market share when they have
an expectation of obtaining BCR. Based on the aforementioned evidences, six adverse feedback
loops hidden within the competitive bidding system are discovered as follows:
1. The reinforcing feedback loops, R4 and R5.
Opportunism is one of the most important behavioral assumptions in economic theories. It
says that companies always want more of what they like, and this may imply that interests are
pursued in an opportunistic fashion (Williamson 1985). Accordingly, it is inferred that, when
contractors have experienced obtaining BCR in the past, they tend to repeatedly cut corners and
raise abnormal claims1 to maximize profit, regardless the reasonableness of the award price.
The reinforcing feedback loops, R4 and R5, are thus formed as shown in Fig. 3.
1 An abnormal claim refers to the claim which is deliberately issued by a contractor for increasing profit. This is
different from the necessary claim which is issued by a contractor for work award.
6Fig. 5 The adverse feedback loops generated from opportunistic bidding (c)
This section introduces six adverse feedback loops hidden within the competitive bidding
system. As contractors’opportunistic bidding behavior forms these six adverse feedback loops
which will continuously intensify over time, it can seriously damage the ideal functions of the
competitive bidding system. In other words, the loops R1, R2, R3, and B1, will be weakened.
3. Contractors’Pricing Behavior under the QBS System
Compared with the competitive bidding system, the QBS system is designed to find
qualified and competent contractors instead of lowest bidders. Besides price, non-price criteria,
such as contractors’past performance, work experience, technical and management skills,
financial capability, etc., are adopted in the contractor selection process. QBS is also recognized
as a “best value”selection system, while some studies distinguish best value selection and the
QBS system on whether the price is included or not in the selection criteria (Beard et al. 2001,
Wardani et al. 2006). The use of QBS will lead contractors to form eight additional reinforcing
feedback loops as follows:
1. The reinforcing feedback loops, R1b-R4b.
The inclusion of non-price criteria generates reinforcing loops which lead contractors to
increase competitiveness and expand their businesses in a positive way. An experienced
contractor can gain more competitiveness in the selection phase and consequently obtain more
8announcement. In this case, all the price-related feedback loops are removed. There are only
two adverse feedback loops remaining, R4 and R5, with a conjunction of four positive feedback
loops, R5b, R6b, R7b, and R8b. Because opportunistic contractors have no chance to cut prices
to grab contracts, in the long-term, any opportunistic behavior which sacrifices project quality
and project owner’s satisfaction will only cause them to lose competitiveness. Thus, the
feedback loops R4 and R5 are expected to be weakened.
Fig. 7 The contractors’behavioral feedback loops under the QBS system (b)
10
awarding system.
Different from the situation in the price-based system, the use of non-price criteria has been
demonstrated to increase the competitiveness of the non-opportunistic and competent contractors.
Some useful criteria should include contractors’past performance, financial capability, work
experience, quality of key personnel, and technical proposals. It should be noted here that the
inclusion of contractor’s past performance has exceptional usefulness in reducing a contractor’s
willingness to sacrifice project quality and raise claims. Since contractors’BCR seeking
behavior (including cutting corners and raising claims) will negatively affect their performance
records, contractors are forced to trade off the benefit from BCR and its damages on their bidding
competitiveness. To make these loops more effective, the owners need an objective and
sensitive performance rating system. Several researchers are working on this line of research
such as contractor’s performance prediction (Alarcon and Mourgues 2002), contractor’s quality
performance assessing model (Yasamis et al. 2002), and quality-based contractor rating model
(Minchin and Smith 2005).
5.Experiments
The simulation model for analyzing the market competitive behavior
In this section, a contractor’s pricing model, which can be used to simulate the market
competitive behavior in the project-based industries, has been developed to conduct virtual
experiments on the managerial policies of the price-based and qualification-based systems.
Previous studies have developed many models to explain contractors’pricing behavior under
the price-based system. Most of these models regarded contractors’pricing as an optimum
decision with the consideration of “cost”and “market competition”factors (Yan et al. 2005a).
In addition to these two factors, Lo et al. (2007) proposed that beyond-contractual reward (BCR)
as an important factor which has to be considered for analyzing contractors’pricing behavior and
developed a contractor’s pricing model for the price-based system to depict the interaction
relationships between contractors’pricing decisions and various factors. As the price is not the
only selection criterion in the qualification-based system, the model in this paper was developed
accordingly, with considerations of “cost”, “market competition”, “BCR”, and “contractor’s
qualification”.
The conceptual feedback structure of the proposed model is shown as Fig. 9. Lo et al.
(2007) has depicted the effects of factors related to “market competition”,“cost”, and“BCR”on
a contractor’s bidding price. Firstly, from market competition perspective, as the level of market
competition increases, contractors will be forced to lower their bidding prices. Then, from cost
perspective, the contractor’s cost condition will determine the bottom line of his pricing behavior.
Finally, from BCR perspective, it is assumed that contractors may accidentally submit an
unreasonable low price and then adopt some actions to make up their sacrifices through obtaining
BCR. Once contractors have experienced obtaining BCR in the past, they tend to repeatedly cut
corners and raise abnormal claims to maximize profit, regardless the reasonableness of the award
price. Contractors’expectation of BCR will evolve from contractors’previous experiences and
will affect contractors’decisions in determining their bidding prices.
12
Note: X-axis represents times of bid opening. Y-axis represents market price level.
Fig. 10 Simulated market price trends after the contractors consider BCR in pricing
The paper further examines the importance of the owner’s project management system.
Since the degree of strictness of the owner’s management system on the project is assumed to
affect the maximum amount of BCR, MBCR can be used to represent different strictnesses of
management systems in different projects. The lower MBCR is, the stricter the project
management; and vice versa.
The MBCR is separately set to simulate the market prices under three different degrees of
strictness ofowner’smanagement systems on projects. The simulation result shows that, at the
same competition level, different BCR levels result in different equilibriums of market price (see
Fig. 11). It is logical to infer from this result that, when contractors begin to take BCR into
account for pricing decisions, BCR would be the key determinant of contractors’ pricing and
market price. Therefore, the simulation results demonstrate that reducing the possibility and
amount of BCR should always be the most important task for project owners.
Note: X-axis represents times of bid opening. Y-axis represents market price level.
Fig. 11 Simulated market price trends under different project management systems
14
always rate contractors’performances strictly, contractors’BCR seeking behavior can be
effectively controlled and contractors’bidding price can be directed to a reasonable level. The
results indicate the importance of the weight of past performance in the qualification evaluation
process to enlarge the competitive advantage of contractors who provide higher quality products
and reduce the effects of contractors’opportunistic price cutting.
Fig. 13 Simulated market price trends when contractor’s past performance is included as the
main project awarding criterion
6. Self-Evaluation of Research Results (計畫成果自評)
The competitive bidding system and QBS are two mainstreams of contractor selection system
today. To investigate the economical benefits of the two systems, it is necessary to
comprehensively study the impacts of these two systems on contractors’competitive behavior
and understand the underlying structure of contractors’behavioral systems. However, too often
researchers have investigated these two systems on the “events level”. This “events cause
events”orientation doesn’t lead to very powerful ways to understand the evolution of contractors’
behaviors and the possible performance under specific contractor selection systems. With a
system dynamics approach, we focus on discovering contractors’competitive behavioral loops in
the construction market. Several unanticipated adverse feedback loops are discovered and
analyzed. Through the understanding of the whole system of contractors’behavior, the study
would have a theoretical basis as the reasons to the economical performance of contractor
selection systems. In addition, managerial policy implications to project owners are also
discussed and tested through a simulation model, so as to provide practical benefits of this
research.
As to the academic benefits of this research, this NSC project has yielded decent results. In
the past two years, three academic papers were written based on the research results. The first
paper, entitled “Evaluating Qualification-Based Selection System: An Simulation Approach”,
was published in Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, ASCE, 135(6), 458-465,
which is included in Science Citation Index (SCI) database. The second paper, entitled “A
16
Hiyassat, MA (2001) Construction bid price evaluation. Canadian Journal of Civil Engineering,
28(2), 264-270.
Ho, SP, and Liu, LY (2004) Analytical model for analyzing construction claims and opportunistic
bidding. Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 130(1), 94-104.
Lo, W and Yan, MR, (2008) Evaluating qualification-based selection system: a simulation
approach. Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 135(6), 458-465.
Lo, W, Lin, CL, and Yan, MR, (2007) Contractor’s opportunistic bidding behavior and
equilibrium price level in construction market. Journal of Construction Engineering and
Management, 133(6), 409-416.
Lo, W, Krizek, RJ, and Hadavi, A (1999) Effects of high prequalification requirements.
Construction Management and Economics, 17(5), 603-612.
Minchin, RE, Gary, R, and Smith, M (2005) Quality-based contractor rating model for
qualification and bidding purposed. Journal of Management in Engineering, 21(1), 38-43.
Ngai, SC, Drew, DS, Lo, HP, and Skitmore M (2002) A theoretical framework for determining
the minimum number of bidders in construction bidding competitions. Construction
Management and Economics, 20(6), 473-482.
Ng, ST and Skitmore, RM (1999) Project owner and consultant perspectives of prequalification
criteria. Building and Environment, 34(5), 607-621.
Rooke, J, Seymour, D, and Fellows, R (2004) Planning for claims: an ethnography of industry
culture. Construction Management and Economics, 22(6), 655-662.
Runeson, G. (2000) Building Economics, Deakin University Press, Geelong, Australia.
Runeson, G. and Raftery, J (1998) Neo-classical microeconomics as an analytical tool for
construction price determination. Journal of Construction Procurement, 4(2), 116-131.
Skitmore, M., Drew, D., and Ngai, S. (2001). Bid-spread. Journal of Construction Engineering
and Management, 127(2), 149-153.
Topcu, YI (2004) A decision model proposal for construction contractor selection in Turkey.
Building and Environment, 39(4), 469-481.
Wang, WC (2004) Supporting project cost threshold decisions via a mathematical cost model.
International Journal of Project Management, 22(2), 99-108.
Wang, WC, Wang, HH, Lai, YT, and Li, CC (2006), Unit-price-based model for evaluating
competitive bids. International Journal of Project Management, 24, 156-166.
Wardani, EI, Messner, I, and Horman, J (2006) Comparing procurement methods for design-build
projects. Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 132(3), 230-238.
Williamson, OE (1985) The economic institutions of capitalism, New York: Free Press.
Winch, G.M (2000) Institutional reform in British construction: partnering and private finance.
Building Research and Information, 28(2), 141-155.
Yan, MR, Lo, W, and Lin, CL (2005a) Critical driving force for contractor’s opportunistic bidding 
behavior in public works. The First International Conference on Construction Engineering
and Management, 16-19 October 2005, Seoul, Korea, Korean Institute of Construction
Engineering and Management, 417-423.
Yan, MR, Lo, W, and Lin, CL (2005b) Impacts of design-build delivery system on the
construction industry in Taiwan. The First International Conference on Construction
