易、快速且安全地將機密資料藏到載體
影像當中，這都是大家一直要去努力的
目標。 
¾ 偽裝影像失真度： 
 將機密資料藏入載體影像之後，會產
生一張偽裝影像(Stego-image)。要如何
將此偽裝影像的失真度降到最低呢，換
言之，就是讓偽裝影像看起來與原始影
像是差不多，也就是其PSNR值越高越
好。 
3. 基於直方圖的無損資料隱藏相關技術 
  目前常見基於直方圖的方法如下： 
¾ Ni等人無損資料隱藏法： 
   在2006年，Ni等人(簡稱NSAS法)[11]提
出利用直方圖中的零點或最小點，來做稍
微修改嵌入資料的灰階像素值，不但可以
嵌入高容量的資料(5–80kbits藏入一張512* 
512* 8灰階影像)，還可以保持非常好的視
覺品質，換言之，偽裝影像的PSNR大部分
都超過48dB。可惜的是在他們的論文中並
未提到發送端如何將這些零點或最低點像
素值傳送到接收者。 
¾ Hwang等人無損資料隱藏法： 
Hwang等人(簡稱HKC法) [5]所選用像
素點的位置是有最大點、左邊最小點、及
右邊最小點，以致於在還原原始圖像時不
需要有任何額外資訊。同時HKC法也針對
最低點之點數不為零時，提出記錄位置的
方式來當作解決之道。而其解決方式為將
所有最低點之像素的座標位置藏匿至機密
訊息之中；由於是以座標的方式藏匿加上
該像素值的數量多時，則需要額外藏入的
位元數會相當的可觀。在本計劃中，也針
對此缺點提出解決方案。 
¾ 利用影像切割的概念： 
    2007年，Fallahpour和Sedaaghi(簡稱FS
法)[2]利用影像切割的概念將載體影像分
割成數個區塊；進而分別將這些區塊以Ni
等人的方式進行隱藏。雖然此方法可提高隱
藏量，但同時也產生了更多額外資訊。但是
在FS法中，傳送端需要額外傳送多對資訊與
切割區塊的大小給接收端。若是沒有這些資
訊，則接收端無法正確抽取出機密資訊且也
不能還原載體影像。 
4.本計劃的主要貢獻 
在本計劃中首先針對直方圖的隱藏方
法進行安全性討論，進而提出新的無損資料
隱藏技術。所以本計畫的主要貢獻說明如
下： 
(1). 提出特性方程式：透過這個特性方程
式，我們可以將植基於直方圖的機密資
訊抽取出來。 
(2). 利用植基於直方圖隱藏的特性並結
合影像切割概念，進而設計出新型的隱
藏方法。也就是當資訊隱藏其中而不需
額外資訊即可抽取機密資訊。 
(3). 結合數學模組及切割概念應用於矩
形影像。這個數學模組將有助於提高本
計劃所提出的隱藏方法應用於矩形影
像上，利用不同的切割分式可以提高偽
裝影像的不可察覺性來降低被攻擊者
發現的可能性。 
4.1 提出特性方程式 
在這章節中，主要是針對NSAS法及
HKC法之安全性做一簡單的探討： 
¾ 分析NSAS法安全性： 
   由直方圖特性來看，我們可發現當使用
NSAS法來進行機密資料隱藏後，所得到的
偽裝影像之其統計直方圖中會有一個連續
四個像素值區段具有以下的特性，如圖一所
示。在此，我們先假設此四個連續像素值與
其數量分別為(x1, y1)、(x2, y2)、(x3, y3)、(x4, 
y4)，同時此四點會滿足式1及式2之條件。 
 
     1
4
34
1
21
y
yy
y
yy τ≅−≅−  (1) 
圖五 基於影像切割之無損資料隱藏法隱藏流程圖 
圖六 基於影像切割之無損資料隱藏法萃取流程圖 
4.3 結合數學模組及切割概念應用於矩形
影像之無損資料隱藏法 
分析現有的文獻中所使用的載體影像
長度與寬度多為 2 的次方數，與目前實際
狀況略有不同。在此小節我們提出更符合
實際使用情況的演算法流程如圖七所示。 
情況一：載體影像長度與寬度皆為 2 的次
方數，則不修改演算法。例如：載體
影像為 512*512 大小，影像區塊的長
度與寬度必須為 2 的倍數。 
情況二：載體影像長度或寬度為組合數，
則選擇組合數的因數為影像區塊的大
小。例如：載體影像為 400*512 大小，
則影像區塊的長度與寬度可分別為 50
和 128。 
情況三：載體影像長度或寬度為質數，則
先將該質數減一再使用情況二的方式
進行影像區塊的切割。例如：載體影
像為400*251大小，則先將寬度變為
250再進行影像區塊切割。 
圖七 選擇流程圖 
5. 實驗結果與分析 
5.1實驗環境 
在此小節中，實驗過程的使用機器為
Pentium Ⅳ 3.0 (GHz)、1G RAM；實驗平台
為Windows XP Professional；實驗軟體為
MATLAB R2006a。載體影像以Lena為例且
其大小為512*512像素。 
5.2 實驗結果 
¾ NSAS法安全性分析模擬結果 
 
(a)Lena 
 
(b) Histogram 
 
(c)Stego-Lena 
 
(d) Stego-Histogram 
圖八 Lena 隱藏前後比較(NSAS 法) 
¾ HKC 法安全性分析模擬結果 
(a) Lena 
 
(b) Histogram 
 
2006. 
6. C. Kurak and J. McHugh, ” A Cauti- onary Note on 
Image Downgrading, “Proc. Computer Security 
Applications, pp.153-159, 1992. 
7. W. C. Kuo, D. J. Jiang; Y. C. Huang, “A Reversible 
Data Hiding Scheme Based on Block Division,” 
Congress on Image and Signal Processing, 2008. 
CISP '08. Vol.1, pp.365 – 369  
8. W. C. Kuo, Y. H. Lin, “On the Security of 
Reversible Data Hiding Based-on Histogram Shift,” 
Conference on Innovative Computing Information 
and Control, ICICIC '08. pp.174, 2008. 
9. L. M. Marvel, C. G. Boncelet, and C. T. Retter, 
“Spread Spectrum Image Steganography,” IEEE 
Trans. Image Processing, Vol.8, pp.1075-1083, Aug. 
1999. 
10. K. Matsui and K. Tanaka, “Video- Steganography: 
how to secretly embed a signature in a picture”, In 
Proc. IMA Intellectual Property Project, Vol.1, No.1, 
pp.187-206, 1994. 
11. Z. C. Ni, Y. Q. Shi, N. W. Ansari, and W. Su, 
“Reversible Data Hiding,” IEEE Trans. on Circuits 
and Systems for Video Technology, Vol.16, No.3, 
pp.354-362, 2006. 
12. G. L. Simmons, “The prisoners’ probl- em and 
subliminal channels”, Proc. Annu. Int. Cryptology 
Conf., SantaBarbara, CA, pp.51-67, 1984. 
13. J. Tian, “Reversible Data Embedding Using a 
Difference Expansion,” IEEE Trans. on Circuits 
and Systems for Video Technology, Vol.13, No.8, 
pp.890-896, 2003. 
14. G. Xuan, Q. Yao, C. Yang, J. Gao, P. Chai, Y. Q. Shi, 
and Z. Ni, “Lossless Data Hiding Using Histogram 
Shifting Method Based on Integer Wavelets,” 
IWDW 2006, LNCS-4283 , pp.323-332, 2006. 
 2
 
The Ninth International Conference on 
Hybrid Intelligent System: HIS2009 
2009 國際混合智慧系統會議 
 
 
報告人: 郭文中 
 
國立虎尾科技大學資訊工程系 
雲林縣虎尾鎮文化路 64 號 
電話:(05) 6315572 
傳真:(05) 6330456 
Email: simonkuo@nfu.edu.tw 
 
本次參加由瀋陽師範大學所舉行的第九屆國際混合智慧系統會議於九十
八年八月十二到十四日在大陸瀋陽盛大舉行，本次會議整合各種混合智慧系統
相關技術如 IP 通訊協定、智能服務和應用程序的網頁搜索引擎、基於代理使
用者介面設計與應用、代理網路媒體及其應用、軟體計算及多媒體應用、語
意技術與知識推理、內核學習聚類分析及其應用、最新進展群體智能、理論
與應用無線傳感器網絡、理論與應用的點對點的對等覆蓋網絡、資訊安全中
嶄新的應用方法、混合智能技術的電力控制和通訊。本次會議除了專題演講
之外，尚有一些相關論文發表及一些實際網路學習的展示。 
 
有關專題演講之內容有：邀請多媒體技術大師 Professor Paul P. Wang 演
講 “Mathematics of Uncertainty for Intelligent Systems”、通訊網路技術的大師 
Professor Hideyuki Takagi 演講 “IEC Prospector’s Guide : Features of some 
Interactive EC Frameworks”、資訊系統的大師 Professor Chin-Chen Chang 演講 
“A self-Refence Watermarking Sheme based on Wet Paper Coding”及資料結構的
專家  Professor Peng Shi 演講 “Robust Filtering on Hybrid Dynamical Systems 
with Uncertainties”等相關混合智慧系統的演講。 
 
A Data Hiding Scheme with High Embedding Capacity Based on General 
Improving Exploiting Modification Direction method 
 
 
 
Abstract—Data hiding is one of the most important strategies 
on the field of data security; the main purpose of data hiding is 
to disguise the secret information and put them behind a cover 
image to make them unnoticeable and to assure the secrecy as 
a stego-image. Besides safety, the quantity of data that can be 
hidden in a single cover image is also very important to the 
data encryption. In this paper, we propose two kinds of weight-
changing evaluation of high capacity EMD data hiding 
strategies that formulas can be open to the public; one of them 
is using table-checking to change the weighting evaluation of 
high capacity EMD data hiding strategy, the other is using 
generalize of high capacity EMD data hiding; both strategies 
can improve the safety problem when opening the formula to 
the public.  
Keywords- Cover Image, Data Hiding, Stego-Image, 
Steganography,  Security 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
As the Internet becoming a part of human daily life, we 
are going to the e-world. In other words, we can send the 
digital messages or information through the Internet. 
However, there are the variety of dangers hidden behind the 
convenience of the internet; for instance, many personal 
information can be intercepted, modified, or being used on 
any illegal matters by hackers during the data is being sent. 
Because of that, we need to eliminate any possibility of 
leaking information. The most well-known method is using 
data hiding. In general, it uses the equation to hide secret 
messages inside of cover image and becomes so-called 
stego-image without any trace to other persons, and the 
stego-image can be safely delivered to its recipients. 
However, the integrity of data hiding does not focus 
only on the data's security or capacity, but also includes 
imperceptibility and robustness. Recently, Cayre et al. 
proved the security of watermarking and it is important to 
the data hiding too.[1] Therefore, we tend to focuses on the 
data security and the data hiding capacity in this paper.  
Up to date, many data hiding methods are proposed 
and the most common data hiding techniques is using LSB 
(Least Significant Bites) position to hide the secrete 
information; in other words, the secrete information will be 
converted to binary bit stream, and then be injected into the 
least bit. [3, 6, 7]  
In 2006, a technique, Exploiting Modification 
Direction (for short, EMD), was used to increase the 
capacity of secrete information in the cover image, and the 
stego-image contains a higher PSNR value was proposed by 
Zhang and Wang [8]. In fact, the goal of the EMD method is 
modified only one of two pixels – add one, subtract one, or 
stay the same. From a spatial point of view, two pixels can 
only have five situations - moving upward, downward, left, 
right, or not moving at all. Later, Lee et al. [4] (for short, 
LWC–scheme) have focused on and improve this issue – a 
technique that catch two pixels at a time, and give both 
pixels a fixed evaluating value. This technique has more 
options on the space, and it uses pixel location as center to 
move in eight different directions; because one of the 
changes was used twice, so this technique has 3 more 
direction than Zhang-Wang scheme, and that's why the 
LWC-scheme crew increased the capacity up to 1.5 times. 
However, some concerns about the security issues： LWC-
scheme and Zhang-Wang scheme both are using fixed 
evaluating value, so, once their encryption techniques hits 
public, the whole encryption could be cracked in just a snap 
of a finger. In this paper, we have designed two high 
capacity EMD data hiding techniques with changing-
evaluating-value; the stego-images will still be secure even 
when we open the formulas to the public. One of them is to 
do table checking in order to change the weighting 
evaluation value in a high capacity EMD data hiding system. 
The other technique is a multi-alter weighting evaluation 
called the generalize equation; it has eight different pair of 
weighting evaluation value. With one extra random seed to 
randomly select the pairing formula, it makes the leaking 
secrete information nearly impossible even if we publish the 
strategy that is mentioned in this paper. 
In the next section, we will review two schemes are 
introduced by Zhang-Wang scheme [8] and LWC-scheme 
[4]. Then, we will propose two new high capacity EMD data 
hiding techniques with changing-evaluating-value in Section 
3 and 4, respectively. In Section 5, we display the 
experiment‘s results and compare them with LWC-scheme. 
Finally, the conclusions will be located in Section 6. 
Wen-Chung Kuo Lih-Chyau Wuu Chia-Nian Shyi Shao-Hung Kuo 
Department of Computer 
Science and Information 
Engineering, National 
Formosa University, Yunlin 
632, Taiwan, R.O.C 
simonkuo@nfu.edu.tw 
Institute of Computer 
Science and Information 
Engineering, National 
YunLin University of Science 
and Technology, Yunlin 640,  
Taiwan, R.O.C 
Department of Computer 
Science and Information 
Engineering, 
Southern Taiwan University, 
Tainan 710, Taiwan, R.O.C
Department of Computer 
Science and Information 
Engineering, 
Southern Taiwan University, 
Tainan 710, Taiwan, R.O.C
A. The Improved Version of High Capacity EMD Hiding 
Technique 
Here, this is the study that first to introduce a strategy 
that focus on the improvement of safety problems – the 
improved version of high capacity EMD hiding strategy. 
The extract function we have used is almost the same as 
LWC-scheme, we use changeable weighting value to 
develop this strategy.  
The concealing strategy is to apply defined extract 
function fs with each pair of (X, Y). The procedure of data 
hiding and extract function fs , see below Eq.(4)： 
( ) ( ) 8mod  , bYaXYXfs ×+×=                 (4) 
where a and b have to fulfill ba ≠ and ( ) 08 mod  ≠+ba  
when { }7531 , , , a, b ∈ . Thus, we have 8 different (a, b) 
pairs that fit this 2 conditions – (1, 3), (1, 5), (7, 3), (7, 5), (3, 
1), (5, 1), (3, 7) and (5, 7). Then, we use the seeds to decide 
the weighting value. After that, we uses the random 
weighting value to check upon the modulo table to determine 
which way we should use to change the pixel (X,Y) in the 
cover image. There are 8 different kinds of adjustments 
tables shown in Fig.1.  
For instance, we first obtain a pair of pixel values (X, Y) 
= (100, 113), seed = 2, i.e., (a, b) = (7, 3), secrete data s = 6. 
After we apply (100, 113) to extracting function fs, we got fs 
= 7, and the difference d= 6 – 7 =7 mod 8. Then, we can find 
out the result (X+1, Y) when the difference is 7 from Fig.1, 
i.e., it means (100, 113) will become (101, 113).  
 
Figure 1.  Different weighting parameters a and b 
IV. THE GENERALIZED HIGH CAPACITY EMD DATA 
HIDING TECHNIQUES 
In fact, the improved version of high capacity EMD 
scheme increase security level, but for sending more 
message, data, and saving more space for storage, we will 
propose another scheme to correct the above disadvantages. 
In other word, we will use the generalized strategy instead of 
table checking. The focal point of the generalized high 
capacity EMD is：  when it is hiding data, how is an 
adjustment being made to fulfill the data concealing. The 
modification of the high capacity EMD as shown in LWC-
scheme on Fig.2, and in this section, we change fixed status 
to our generalized EMD data hiding strategy and the 
modification of data hiding shown as Fig.3. 
A. The Improved Version of High Capacity EMD Hiding 
Technique 
From Fig.3, we can easily find out the main purpose of 
EMD is to achieve the goal of randomly picking up a pair of 
pixel, then get the remainder by passing through modulo, 
and find the value in the surrounding area. All of the 
modulo table use 0 as center, so we have designed a 
different weighting value generalized equation to match the 
changing of Fig.3 where α and β are each weighting value. 
The generalized equation and its parameters are shown in 
table I and II, respectively. 
 
Figure 2.  Procedure flow of data hiding 
 
Figure 3.  The different weighting value a and b  in modulo table  
(with seed:0~3) 
 
Figure 4.  The changing of X, Y when α = -1, β = 1 
According to the generalized equation Eq.(4), we can 
speed up the process of data hiding without any extra table 
for storage. For example, we first obtain a pair of pixels (X, Y) 
= (190, 143) and the secrete data is s = 6. If we select the 
seed is 2, i.e., correspond weighting value is (a, b) = (7, 3), 
and the values of α and β are -1 and 1, respectively. Then, we 
apply (190, 143) into extract function fs and compute the 
A Data Hiding Scheme with High Embedding 
Capacity Based on General Improving 
Exploiting Modification Direction method
Wen-Chung Kuo
Lih-Chyau Wuu
Chia-Nian Shyi
Shao-Hung Kuo
1
Introduction
Á Data Hiding
3
cover image
Secret message
stego image
EmbeddingEmbedding
ExtractionExtraction Secret message
Reviewing the Data Hiding 
Technology based on EMD method
Á The Data Hiding Scheme in EMD
À The EMD method was first proposed by Zhang 
and Wang in 2006
À According to EMD's preset, the secrete 
information will be injected to a group of cover 
image pixels as a serial of binary codes; the 
group has n pixels, and the binary code is 
injected to (2n+1)-ary.
5
Reviewing the Data Hiding 
Technology based on EMD method
Á The Data Hiding Procedure with High 
Capacity EMD
À In 2007, Lee, Wang and Chang first convert the 
secrete data into binary, and then convert the 
binary array into 8-ary; it changes the data 
hiding capacity from hiding a bit to 3 bits.
À Extract function：
( ) ( ) 8mod31, ×+×= YXYXfe
7
The Improved Version of High 
Capacity EMD Hiding Technique
Á We will propose the improvement scheme 
can not only keep the same secure level but 
also the hiding techniques are adaptable.
Á The following, we are going to show you 
about how do we improve the fixed 
weighting value, and strengthen the security.
9
The Improved Version of High 
Capacity EMD Hiding Technique
Á There are 8 different kinds of adjustments 
tables shown in figure.
11
The Generalized High Capacity 
EMD DATA Hiding Techniques
Á From figure, we can easily find out the main purpose of 
EMD is to achieve the goal of randomly picking up a pair of 
pixel, then get the remainder by passing through modulo, 
and find the value in the surrounding area.
13
The Generalized High Capacity 
EMD DATA Hiding Techniques
Á The relationship of generalized equation
15
Seed：0~3 Seed：4~7
fs(X,Y) X’ Y’ X’ Y’
fs(X,Y)=0 X’=X Y’=Y X’=X Y’=Y
fs(X,Y)=1 X’=X+α Y’=Y X’=X Y’=Y+β
fs(X,Y)=2 X’= X-α Y’=Y+β X’=X+α Y’=Y-β
fs(X,Y)=3 X’ =X Y’=Y+β X’=X+α Y’=Y
fs(X,Y)=4 X’=X+α Y’=Y+β X’=X+α Y’=Y+β
fs(X,Y)=5 X’=X Y’=Y-β X’=X-α Y’=Y
fs(X,Y)=6 X’=X+α Y’=Y-β X’=X-α Y’=Y+β
fs(X,Y)=7 X’=X-α Y’=Y X’=X Y’ =Y-β
Experimental Results
Á The compare between LWC-scheme and our 
scheme.
17
PSNR(dB) Pepper Baboon Boat
LWC- scheme 50.173 50.168 50.180 50.176
Our scheme 50.174 50.163 50.180 50.172
