II 
 
國家科學與創新系統與前瞻科技發展之比較分析： 
以台灣與俄羅斯為例 
 
 
摘要 
全球化競爭時代下，隨著資訊科技一日千里、網路技術不斷突破的
影響，跨時間、跨空間或異質性的知識交流與互動變得十分頻繁，營造
出創意、創新養成的有利環境更顯著強化了企業與國家的競爭能力。因
此，本研究從國家創新系統的角度剖析台灣與俄羅斯兩國的差異與狀況，
主要針對國家創新系統之內涵與結構進行探討，並從中蒐整相關評估指
標後，依不同屬性與評估目的歸結出結構化、系統化的指標系統，了解
在創新發展面向的差異，最後從兩國在研發創新上長期發展之策略，了
解兩方政府研擬科技發展政策對於創新活動造成的影響。 
關鍵字：國家創新系統、台灣、俄羅斯 
 
 
  
IV 
 
Table of Content 
摘要 ................................................................................................................................................ II 
TABLE OF CONTENT ................................................................................................................ IV 
INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................................... 1 
PART I. RUSSIA‘S S&T AND INNOVATION DEVELOPMENT:  HISTORICAL ASPECTS, 
POLICIES, STRATEGY AND PRIORITIES ................................................................................. 3 
1. HISTORICAL ASPECTS OF S&T DEVELOPMENT ......................................................................... 3 
2. СURRENT SITUATION. STATE POLICIES IN S&T AND INNOVATION ........................................... 21 
3. S&T DEVELOPMENT: STRATEGY AND PRIORITIES ................................................................... 81 
PART II. TAIWAN‘S S&T DEVELOPMENT POLICIES AND PRIORITIES ......................... 118 
1. PROGRESSION OF TAIWAN‘S S&T POLICY DEVELOPMENT .................................................... 120 
2.  THE BUILDING BLOCKS OF TAIWAN‘S S&T POLICIES ......................................................... 130 
3. S&T DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND BUDGET IN TAIWAN........................................................... 141 
PART III. COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS .................................................................................... 203 
1. ANALYSIS OF THE CURRENT STATE AND DEVELOPMENT TRENDS OF THE SCIENCE AND 
INNOVATION SPHERE IN RUSSIA AND TAIWAN ............................................................................ 203 
2. INNOVATION, FINANCE AND FUNDING IN THE NATIONAL INNOVATION SYSTEM ....................... 233 
REFERENCES ............................................................................................................................ 264 
APPENDIX I – CHRONICLE OF TAIWAN‘S S&T DEVELOPMENT POLICIES ................ 268 
APPENDLX II COMPARISON RESULTS ................................................................................ 278 
 
 
 
2 
 
regulation were proposed. These included identification of priorities for S&T development, 
improvement of institutional framework support to technological modernization of national 
economy, fiscal stimulus, commercialization o* research etc. 
The report of the third stage provides an overview of the historical development of 
science, technology and innovation in Russia and Taiwan; a study of institutional systems, 
including the organizational structure of the NIS (organizations conducting research, structured 
by species, the organization of the innovation infrastructure, etc.) and the development of 
national legislation regulating the sphere of science, technology and innovation; consider a 
system of priorities of science, technology and equipment, lists of technologies that are critically 
important  for the development of national economies as well as the conditions and practices of 
their selection, adjustment and implementation. This will give greater analysis of the 
development of science and technology in countries as economic activity concrete historical 
content and to determine the national characteristics of the formation and development of 
scientific and innovation systems, identify the barriers to innovation activity and contribute to its 
success, develop trends and measures to improve the national science technology and innovation 
policies. 
 
 
4 
 
employment increased from 0.6 percent to 1.1 percent. Intensive investment was made in R&D 
facilities and equipment, and it became possible to carry out research in the most important areas 
of science and technology. 
During World War II the Soviet R&D system demonstrated its ability to mobilize R&D for 
the production and improvement of weapons. The need to concentrate human, material, and 
financial resources on military R&D increased the government's role in identifying national S&T 
objectives and in implementing large-scale R&D projects. The defence R&D complex was 
formed during World War II. Its size increased in both absolute and relative terms. This 
expansion in military R&D accelerated the growth of total R&D. By 1950, employment in the 
Science and Scientific Services sector totalled 714000 - 82 percent higher than in 1940. 
In the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s the R&D sector continued to expand; by 1990 R&D 
personnel exceeded 2.8 million in the former USSR. The expansion of R&D was largely in 
employment rather than in equipment and facilities, but the applied R&D organizations remained 
separated from production. About half of the R&D effort was for military purposes. The 1980s, 
however, was a decade in which the Soviet R&D sector lost much of its dynamics, and the 
indicators of R&D inputs and outputs showed decline. The inefficiency of the centrally planned 
Soviet R&D system began to take its toll. Simultaneously the overall rate of economic growth 
began to slacken, basically for the same reasons: the exhaustion of sources for expansion and the 
lack of adjustment mechanisms in the centrally organized system. 
 
1.2. The problems of the Former Soviet S&T system 
 
The current R&D system of the Russian Federation largely reflects its Soviet origins. The 
Soviet R&D had three special characteristics: 
 
 very large scale 
 centrally directed management 
 government funding 
 
These features are ill-suited to a market economy, it was not surprising that the R&D sector 
underwent a crisis in the first years of the transition (1990-1994). The Soviet R&D sector 
received increasingly more resources, but it lacked an efficient market mechanism to direct R&D 
and to provide timely structural changes. Negative factors, which have only recently been 
identified, and which still damage Russian development, were deeply rooted in several features 
6 
 
provide adequate facilities and equipment even for internationally recognized areas. In 1990, 60 
percent of R&D institutions did not own the buildings they operated in, and when free-market 
economy emerged these institutions were threatened with eviction. In the case of biotechnology, 
for example, 50 percent of the R&D institutions did not have experimental facilities; 35 percent 
did not own their buildings; and 20 percent of the research equipment was more than 10 years 
old. The proportion of high-cost R&D equipment (as a percentage of the total value) with 
specifications equal to or above that of world standards varied in the research field as follows: 
only 14 percent in biotechnology, 21 percent in machine-building-related research, and 24 
percent in general physics and astronomy, informatics, computers, and automation. This 
indicator was highest in electrical engineering (35 percent) and physical chemistry and 
technology of inorganic materials (41 percent); but, even these levels were insufficient to achieve 
the most advanced scientific results. 
Inefficient structure and organization of the Soviet R&D sector continues to influence its 
development during the transition period in Russia. Research institutes separated from both 
enterprises and universities were the major organizational form for R&D in the Soviet Union, 
and this remains in Russia. In addition to institutes conducting research as their primary activity, 
there were also other units specializing in development (such as design, construction projects, 
and experimental work), which worked independently of industrial enterprises. Only a few 
universities and enterprises combined R&D with education or production. 
R&D was also guided by the general principles of the Soviet administration. Like other 
organizations, R&D institutions were attached to specific branch ministries, supervising an 
industry or sector of the economy. Ministries had exclusive control over their assigned sectors of 
the national economy including the related R&D. Resources allocation was influenced by 
"weights" of particular ministries in governmental hierarchies and in the political process. In the 
1970s, the years of the Soviet bureaucratic system flourishing, there were some 70 major 
ministries and other governmental agencies such as state committees and central departments. 
Despite recent frequent changes in the central bodies, their number remained almost the same. 
This situation made scientific communications and inter-sectoral R&D projects difficult. 
Soviet R&D generally was carried out in a rigid administrative system. This created strong 
interest groups resisting any change. The R&D capability and efficiency differed from sector to 
sector. As a result, each R&D institution's chances to survive the subsequent transition varied. 
Soviet R&D was organized into four major sectors: 
 
1. The Academy sector 
8 
 
R&D
2
. 
 Enterprise sector R&D was financed by industrial enterprises. Activities were largely 
directed at the immediate needs of the enterprise, such as adapting external R&D to specific 
production conditions and current products modernisation. The enterprise sector was the least 
developed of the four major R&D sectors and, in terms of expenditures, by 1990 accounted for 
about 8 percent of total Soviet R&D effort. 
 Management and administration shortcomings. The administrative system of R&D 
management did not have the tools to rationalize at the micro-level. The annual allocation of 
funds to an R&D institute depended on its size. As a result, there was no incentive for institute 
directors to close obsolete research programs, thereby downsizing the overall budget of their 
institutes. The implementation of new research projects often meant establishing new 
laboratories. Increasing concentration of R&D in large institutes was characteristic of the 
1950-1970 period, when average R&D employment per institution grew fourfold. An attempt 
was made to restrict the establishment of new R&D institutions, but this purely bureaucratic 
measure could not stop increases in R&D employment. The average staff size in R&D 
institutions grew by 66 percent between 1970 and 1988. In the early 1990s, an average R&D 
institution employed 418 staff members, including 214 researchers
3
. The R&D institutions in 
Russia were larger than most comparable units in other nations. Research institutes that were not 
integrated with enterprises were twice as large as other types of R&D units. In the atomic and 
defence industries some research institutes employed a staff of thousands people. Large R&D 
units were generously provided with funding and equipment and gradually dominated particular 
fields of S&T, while small units fared poorly. Such distortions in the organizational structures of 
R&D in favour of large institutions reduced the flexibility of the system. 
 Geographic disproportions of R&D in the most developed regions occurred during the 
decades of Soviet regime. Among the 15 Soviet republics, Russia dominated with 58 percent of 
the R&D institutions, 54 percent of the higher educational establishments, 69 percent of the 
post-graduate students, 68 percent of the R&D personnel, and 75 percent of Soviet R&D 
expenditure. Russia's share in the Union's R&D expenditure was five times that of Ukraine 
which ranked second. The R&D expenditures of Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan ranged 
between 1.3 and 3.4 percent of the Soviet Union's R&D expenditures, and R&D efforts in 
Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan did not exceed 0.2 percent of Soviet expenditures. 
Within Russia itself, the Central Economic Region around Moscow accounted for over 30 
                                                 
2
 Development of Science in Russia. CSRS. Moscow, Russia, 1993. 
3
 Gokhberg, L., M. Peck, J. Gács (eds.). Russian Applied Research and Development: Its Problems and Its Promise. 
International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria. 1997. 
10 
 
contracts with enterprises implementing R&D. The reforms brought about the first de-etatisation 
(a form of denationalization) of research institutes and gave staff members the right to rent 
buildings and equipment from the government to address their own research agenda. 
Initially, the changes created new links between R&D and industry via direct contracts. 
However, research institutes started to raise contract prices and to focus on simpler, short-term 
projects in order to gain premiums for completed work. Institutes dominating particular R&D 
areas gained the most: in such institutes revenues exceeded costs by as much as 60 percent. In 
1988, R&D institutions attached to 18 industry branch ministries completed more than 107000 
contracts for enterprises, a 2.6-fold increase over 1987, although the average cost of an R&D 
project decreased by half. Small-scale R&D projects, particularly those based on work 
completed earlier, were the most profitable activities. Less profitable basic and long-term applied 
research was neglected. This experience shows that partial reforms in the absence of a real 
market environment and institutional changes cannot correct distortions in an unbalanced R&D 
system, but rather strengthen the short-term orientation of R&D. 
R&D instead of innovation. Specific institutional and organizational principles of the 
USSR's R&D (departmental barriers and R&D separated from industry) emphasized research at 
the expense of innovation. This research and development vs. innovation imbalance became the 
crucial factor in the sluggish innovation activity. Despite an increase in R&D expenditures in 
absolute terms until 1990 (in 1990-s the annual growth rate increased from 6.4 to 13.9 percent), 
R&D output and innovation declined steadily from the mid-1970s (annual growth rate was –6.2 
percent in 1981-85 and –26.4 percent in 1986-89)4. The number of major inventions introduced 
in 1990 was half that in 1985. The level of quality of innovation activity was also lower in 1990 
than previous levels. The share of products at the highest technical level (defined as higher than 
the best compatible products available worldwide) declined from 9.1 percent in 1980 to 4.5 
percent in 1989. More than 70 percent of the total number of innovations was aimed at minor 
improvements of existing, mostly obsolete, technologies. Such improvements were implemented 
relatively quickly, but in two or three years they were no longer useful. In the 1980s, 25 percent 
of documented innovations had already been registered as inventions 6 to 10 years earlier. 
Diffusion of innovation was a weak point of Soviet R&D. Generally, innovations were 
introduced in one or two enterprises, and only 13 percent of innovations were used by additional 
enterprises, mainly in allied industries. Even in cases where the USSR had a leading position in 
the development of significant innovations (e.g., oxygen converters and continuous steel-pouring 
                                                 
4
 Gokhberg, L., M. Peck, J. Gács (eds.). Russian Applied Research and Development: Its Problems and its Promise. 
International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria. 1997. 
12 
 
1.3. Transition of the S&T Sector: from administrative and command 
principles of management to a market economy 
 
 The present-day situation of the Russian R&D sector reflects the impact of economic, 
social, and political factors associated with the dramatic changes of the transition from the Soviet 
Union to the Russian Federation and from central planning to a market system. Several 
developments that occurred outside the R&D sector have had a major impact on it: 
 
 The free-market development gave a new qualitative characteristic to the Russian 
economy. The dominance of state-owned enterprises has fallen sharply. In 1994, private 
industrial enterprises accounted for 79 percent of industrial output and 72 percent of 
industrial employment
5
. Market activity became pervasive in all sectors of the economy, 
even those that remained dominated by public enterprises. 
 There was a major economic crisis as shown by a fall of 38 percent in real gross domestic 
product (GDP) from 1991 to 1995. Inflation was high, sometimes as much as 25 percent 
in one month. The economic decline resulted in an increasing burden on the national 
budget and, consequently, the impossibility of maintaining government appropriations for 
R&D at their previous real level. (The budget deficit reached approximately 10 percent of 
GDP in 1994.) Investment by enterprises fell by 73 percent from 1991 to 1995 reflecting 
the poor financial position of enterprises, the decline of the domestic market for capital 
goods, and increased competition from imports. The economic crisis led to a drastic 
decline in the demand for R&D and innovation by enterprises. 
 
In the R&D sector these trends resulted in a major downsizing. This downsizing was 
accompanied by a fall of the prestige of R&D employment caused in part by the decline in real 
wages, especially when compared with the business sector. In public opinion surveys, the 
prestige of scientific activity was considered fairly low among persons with higher education, 
especially those under 40. Approximately 67 percent of respondents thought that the role of S&T 
in Russia was falling, and among people with advanced degrees this opinion was expressed by 
80 percent of those interviewed
6
. 
                                                 
5
 State Committee on Statistics, Russian Statistical Yearbook, 1995. Moscow, Russia. P. 317 
6
 Gokhberg L., O. Shuvalova. Russian Public Opinion of the Knowledge Economy: Science, Innovation, 
Information Technology and Education as Drivers of Economic Growth and Quality of Life. The British Council, 
2004. 
14 
 
Russia fell below the median in the group of countries with low R&D potential such as Ireland, 
Iceland, Spain, and New Zealand. Such comparisons alarmingly demonstrate the low level of 
R&D funding in Russia. In most other countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States 
(CIS) the R&D percentages of GDP were even smaller
7
. 
The high level of militarization of Soviet R&D by 1990 has been noted in several 
publications
8
. In the transition the share of R&D in total military expenditure decreased from 
19.8 percent in 1989 (USSR) to 10.2 percent in 1995 (Russia). Lack of a well-grounded national 
military doctrine made it impossible to judge the rationale of current expenditures on defence 
R&D. 
The objectives of R&D have changed together with its downsizing. In 1991, defence R&D 
accounted for nearly 43 percent of total R&D. In 1994 this share decreased to 26 percent due to 
the reduction of defence programs. Gradually R&D spending on defence has reached the level of 
other nuclear powers - the United States, the United Kingdom, and France. Within non-defence 
R&D, the general advancement of research has increased its share (12.5 percent of GERD in 
1994). Within R&D oriented to economic development those efforts aimed at economic 
efficiency and technological development of industry represent 8.8 percent of GERD. However, 
the shares allocated to strategic goals such as protection of human health and the rational 
utilization of energy made up only 3.2 percent each; environmental protection occupied an even 
smaller share – only 1.6 percent of GERD. 
Shrinking R&D funding accompanied the downsizing of Russian R&D after 1990. 
Enterprises played a small role - no more than 4 percent of R&D was financed by enterprises 
during the 1989-1993 period
9
. Between 1990 and 1992 the macroeconomic situation discouraged 
such spending. The government has remained the main source of R&D general funds; 
non-budget funds were introduced in 1992 to finance R&D of enterprises in specific sectors. 
According to the expert estimates, the share of these non-budget funds in 1992 and in 1993 
accounted for only 4.4 percent and 4.6 percent, respectively, of Russia's total R&D expenditures. 
The lack of alternatives to government support has compelled the Soviet-style centralized 
system of R&D funding to stay the same. Government funds provided over 90 percent of 
Russian GERD in 1993. The government, however, has failed to provide adequate funds to 
maintain the Soviet R&D system. In 1994 government R&D funding in real terms was only 
                                                 
7
 Gokhberg, L. The Commonwealth of Independent States, World Science Report 1996, United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation. Paris. 1996. 
8
 Gokhberg, L. Scientific Potential of the USSR, VINITI Publishers, Moscow. 1991. 
CSRS. Development of Science in Russia. CSRS. Moscow. 1993. 
OECD. Science, Technology and Innovation Policies: Federation of Russia, Vol. II. Paris. 1994. 
9
 Gokhberg, L., M. Peck, J. Gács (eds.). Russian Applied Research and Development: Its Problems and its Promise. 
International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria. 1997. 
16 
 
altered the four major R&D sectors: Academy, higher education institutions (HEIs), industrial 
sector and enterprises.  
The USSR Academy has been transformed into the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS). 
The RAS has largely kept the commanding position and maintained administrative control over 
the activities of its research institutions. To date, the Academy has not significantly changed the 
structure and bureaucratic organization it had in the Soviet era. Using its considerable political 
influence, the Academy has managed to retain its budget funding better than other R&D sectors 
(in the form of basic research support). Basic research amounted to 58 percent of the Academy's 
1994 expenditures, up from 52 percent in 1990. Applied R&D accounted for more than one-third 
of the Academy's activities. Academy institutes have maintained some participation in 
budgetary-financed goal-oriented S&T programs. As a result, the Academy sector has increased 
its proportion in the total value of applied R&D between 1990 and 1994. Academy institutions 
are usually not competitive with industry R&D units, development was a minor activity 
accounting for only 7 percent of the mid-1990s  Academy R&D effort.  
Higher Education Sector. The economic difficulties of the 1990s have reduced the role of 
university R&D. As economically "unprofitable" activity R&D has become a marginal one in 
many universities. R&D was no longer carried out at 40 percent of higher education institutions, 
and 150 newly established private universities had little interest in R&D. The higher education 
share in GERD declined from 6 percent in 1990 to 4 percent in 1994. The universities' share in 
basic research increased (in both absolute and relative terms) because applied R&D performed 
by industrial contracts decreased sharply, leaving them more dependent on budget funds for 
basic research. The share of basic research in overall R&D in universities doubled and by the 
beginning of 1995 had reached 39.6 percent, almost 10 times higher than the sector's share in the 
national R&D total. 
Industrial sector has retained its share of GERD of over 75 percent. Industrial R&D 
institutions have kept strong links with enterprises, usually in the framework of institutional 
structures that have partly replaced branch ministries (such as associations, financial industrial 
groups, or large conglomerate firms). As a result, these institutes could meet the enterprises 
demand on short-term R&D. Their share of long-term research has declined as enterprises had 
little interest in funding such activity, given the actual financial situation. Poor financial position 
of the large industrial R&D institutes, however, has forced them to increase their efforts on 
state-funded basic research (especially in the case of the defence industry) in the direct 
competition with Academy institutes. As a consequence the Academy's share in Russian basic 
research declined from 62 percent in 1990 to 58 in 1994, while the share of industrial R&D 
18 
 
for the market. There were three main micro-level strategies for R&D institutions: 
 Keeping R&D as the main activity. 
 Reorientation to other S&T, production, and related services (which may include 
cessation of R&D activity). 
 Orientation to commercial operations like leasing. 
In most cases R&D institutions followed some combination of all three strategies. 
However, in 1994 221 design and construction institutions discontinued all R&D activities. 
R&D human resources reduction. The R&D employment dynamics, at first glance, looks 
puzzling. In 1990 - 1994 R&D expenditure in real amounts was reduced by almost 77 percent, 
while employment in R&D institutions decreased by only 43 percent. This is an indirect sign of 
the worsening social conditions for the researchers and the decline of actual R&D activity by the 
remaining R&D staff. 
The R&D employment reduction was unstable. During the first stage between 1989 and 
1991, the employment reductions were typical in the technical and support staffs. There were 
efforts to keep research teams. The reduced number of technicians, laboratory assistants, and 
support workers inevitably lowered the productivity of scientists. By 1994, the proportion of 
support personnel stabilized at 42 percent of the total employment, compared with 37 percent in 
1990. The share of researchers continued to decline, reflecting the fact that many research 
institutes were gradually turning toward business activities far from R&D. But later the 
researchers inflow in R&D institutions gradually began to grow: 5.9% new researchers in R&D 
staff in 1999 and 10.6% in 2003
13
. 
Most of the staff reductions were voluntary departures, reflecting the outflow of scientists 
and engineers to the business sector (so-called ‗internal brain drain‘). The opportunities of 
business activities have made the sector increasingly attractive to qualified and active people. 
Seventy-one percent of quitting R&D staff mentioned higher salaries as a prime reason for their 
decision. Highly qualified researchers could easily find employment in the rapidly growing 
business sector, and many top-level managers in banks, industrial groups, joint ventures, and 
new companies had doctoral degrees in scientific fields. This redistribution was probably a gain 
for the national economy as a whole but a loss for R&D. Less-qualified staff members, 
experiencing difficulties in employment, were coming back to relatively low-salaried positions in 
the budgetary-supported R&D sector. 
                                                 
13
 Chepurenko, A., Gokhberg, L. Scientific Elite Reproduction in Russia: Role of the Foreign Scientific 
Foundations (Humboldt Foundation Case). Moscow, RIISNP, 2005. 
20 
 
part-time job. Salary arrears in R&D have left many scholars without any income for months. 
According to authors‘ estimate, 57 percent of all researchers had contracts with private firms and 
80 percent of these researchers were mainly employed by the Academy. 
In addition to the internal brain drain there is an international migration of Russian 
scientists. A study performed by authors on the basis of data from the Ministry of the Interior, 
provided a precise estimate of the proportion of R&D personnel emigrated from Russia. 
Emigrants accounted for only 0.5 percent of the total outflow of staff from the R&D sector. This 
indicates that the external brain drain was not really strong. Furthermore, part of the flow of 
emigration was driven by ethnic factors. 
In addition to the R&D personnel migration, there has been an outflow of researchers for 
temporary work abroad. The most typical emigrants of this type were researchers from the 
Academy sector. In 1991-1992, 1101 RAS researchers were abroad for the long-term tours. In 
1993 this number increased to 2639 (3 percent of total RAS employment). Fifty-five percent of 
these individuals were under 40; 19 percent were PhDs; and 51 percent were candidates of 
science. 
These numbers show the "dual-life" scientists who stayed abroad for a long time but 
retained their connection with Russia. These scientists are highly qualified, talented specialists 
applying their efforts abroad rather than in domestic R&D. If they return after years with greater 
skills, Russian R&D gains, but if they stay or return much later after their creative age is over, 
Russia loses. Their decision may have crucial consequences for highly qualified scientific teams 
and promising research areas
15
. 
  
                                                 
15
 Gokhberg, L. Dynamics of R&D Potential of the Russian Academy of Sciences: Statistical Analysis, in: Russian 
Academy of Sciences in Estimation of Scientists, CSRS, Moscow. 1996. 
Nekipelova, E., Gokhberg, L., et al. Emigration of Scientists: Problems, Real Estimations. CSRS, Moscow. 1994. 
22 
 
its low innovation activity with government budget funding. Business enterprise sector's share of 
R&D funding is under one third of the overall domestic expenditures (compared with 72% in 
Japan and 68% in the USA). 
R&D funding grows slower than the main macroeconomic indicators (the latter's growth 
is explained by high oil and other energy resources prices). As a result, after a small increase in 
2003 (to 1.29%) R&D expenditures as share of the GDP started to decline again. 
At the same time the system for prioritising allocation of government funds remains 
rather inefficient. Significant growth of government funding is noted only in the basic research 
area. Highly important applied research and R&D with good commercial prospects on domestic 
and international markets received much weaker support, as well as innovation infrastructure. 
 Lack of funding does not allow organisations to obtain adequate hardware 
and equipment to support R&D or hire younger R&D staff, which in turn 
hinders efficiency of R&D. 
Generally, hardware and equipment amount to 26% of R&D organisations' fixed assets; 
the share of hardware and equipment older than 11 years is 42%; hardware and equipment under 
2 years old amount to just 3%. Average salary in the R&D sector is three - four times lower than 
in developed countries, which continues to provoke internal (to other sectors of the economy) 
and external (to foreign countries) migration of researchers, and reduces their productivity. 
Russia's share in the total number of publications in leading international scientific magazines 
(according to ISI data) is under 3%. The number of Russian publications per 1 million population 
is about 20-25% of the average for the OECD countries. 
 Restructuring of the government R&D sector is dragging on for 
unreasonably long time. 
Most of this sector's organisations are financed out of the government budget, have 
limited rights and little interest in increasing their productivity. Efficiency of reforms is very 
much reduced by delayed practical implementation, lack of necessary legislation regulating 
creation and operation of new S&T institutions to match the realities of market economy. 
 Russian industry in general is still dominated by obsolete technological 
structures; companies are not interested in modernising their production 
facilities and applying new technologies, which weakens demand for domestic 
R&D products. 
60% of demand for new technologies emerging in various industries and individual 
24 
 
of businesses. As a result there appear obstacles hindering efficient interaction between R&D, 
innovation and production. R&D and innovation activity are also poorly organised on the 
regional and federal district levels. Mechanisms for setting up private and government sector 
partnerships are practically non-existent. 
Solving the main problems in the R&D and innovation sphere requires serious resources 
and significant time. Today Russia in principle could afford it because the economic situation has 
noticeably improved and the country moved to one of the top places in terms of the level of 
investments. 
Putting off dealing with the above problems is fraught not just with conserving the current 
situation, but could lead to degradation of the basic elements of innovation cycle, 
irreversible technological lag and complete loss of the country's prestige as a leading R&D 
nation [R&D and innovation strategy]. 
 
2.1. Russia’s NIS:  Institutional Structure 
 
After the USSR disintegration in 1991, the S&T system faced new challenges: adjustment 
to free-market economy, state funding reduction, low demand for R&D from the state and 
private companies. All these factors have led to significant changes in S&T organisation and 
management system, though it still retains many features from the Soviet past. 
To assess the changes that did take place, the section below represents the 
following: 
 R&D organisational structure; 
 R&D sectoral structure 
 
2.1.1. R&D Organisations 
 
There are almost 4000 R&D organisations operating in Russia (see table 1). The S&T 
institutional structure has a number of specific features distinguishing Russia from most of the 
other developed countries. 
First, basic S&T sector framework includes independent R&D organisations (research 
institutes), separated both from production and education activities. In 2007 there were 2036 
26 
 
structure of the country's S&T complex. Currently over a half of S&T organisations (57%) have 
under 100 employees and a third - under 500. There are very few really large S&T complexes 
left. 
These institutional transformations have led to dispersion of financial resources and 
ultimately weakened S&T organisations' research potential. 
Thirdly, "company R&D" - R&D divisions of industrial enterprises - are underdeveloped 
in Russia. In 2007 their share (together with experimental plants) amounted to just 8/2% of all 
S&T organisations in the country. Developed countries example shows that R&D laboratories of 
large industrial enterprises have definite advantage in innovation product markets (opportunity to 
concentrate on developing specific R&D products with a ready market). Thanks to resources 
provided by companies' industrial divisions, such laboratories get a chance to conduct a broader 
research and pick the advanced areas. 
Though organisations of this kind constitute the most important segment of the S&T 
component of modern innovation economy, their share in Russia has actually slightly decreased 
during the transition period. In 1995-2007 the number of company-labs and experimental plants' 
R&D labs has dropped by 6.6. 
Fourth, a peculiar feature of Russia's S&T institutional structure is a very weak higher 
education sector impact. Share of higher education institutions engaged in R&D was 12/6%, 
compared with 21% in the EU and 14–15% in Japan and the USA. Between 1991 and 2007 the 
number of higher education institutions conducting R&D has increased from 458 to 500 (only by 
9/2%)
18
. 
Currently only 40% of Russian higher education institutions conduct R&D. Previously 
there were many independent research institutes attached to HEIs, but since the late 1990s they 
were closed or reorganised according to new legal requirements. Total number of surviving 
research institutes, construction project and design organisations in the higher education system 
with independent budgets is not large: just over 3% of all S&T organisations in the country. 
Newly created private higher education institutions almost never conduct R&D. The current 
situation negatively affects new talent inflow into S&T as well as the quality of professionals 
trained for S&T and high-technology industries. 
Fifth, the ownership of S&T organisations is also a significant question. Privatisation 
affected the S&T less strongly than other sectors of the economy. In 2007 only 16% of S&T 
                                                 
18
 R&D indicators. Statistical data book. M.: HSE, 2009. p. 26 
28 
 
2.1.2. R&D Sectors 
 
Russian S&T organisations are divided into four main sectors, depending on the industry 
and their main functions: 
1. government sector organisations which provide support to government institutions, 
working for the society as a whole; 
2. business enterprise sector organisations which support companies producing goods 
and services for sale (both privately and publicly owned); 
3. higher education sector organisations engaged in highly skilled professionals training 
at higher education institutions. 
4. private non-profit sector organisations, including private companies which do not 
operate for profit. 
The main criterion for S&T organisations classification is the sector of economy they 
support. In turn, the organisation's type depends not just on the functions it performs to provide 
adequate support to "customers", but also on the nature of its objectives. 
Table 3 shows that the years of reform have brought significant changes to the 
government and business enterprise sectors. Paradoxically for a market economy, one can see 
serious growth in the government sector and equally significant decline in the number of S&T 
organisations in the business enterprise sector. 
Government sector includes S&T organisations subordinated to the federal ministries, 
regional and local government agencies. I.e. this sector is largely consists of government 
agencies. In 2007 almost 37.5% of all S&T organisations in the country belonged to this sector 
(20% in 1990). 
In 2007 there were 1276 S&T organisations (32.2% of all S&T organisations in the 
country) controlled by federal ministries and agencies. Usually they have high research potential; 
the average number of employees is 300. 
Government S&T sector also includes smaller organisations owned by regional and local 
authorities. There are not many of them - 44 and 15, respectively (in total, less than 1.5% of all 
S&T organisations in Russia). 
In addition to organisations directly controlled by government agencies, the government 
sector also includes organisations owned by the Russian Academy of Science (RAS) and 
30 
 
 
The Business enterprise sector includes industrial research institutes, construction project 
and exploration organisations, design and technological companies, R&D and prospecting 
organisations, manufacturing companies and others. Industrial organisations are mostly oriented 
towards R&D in specific industrial directions. 
Business enterprise sector is the biggest and most resource-intensive S&T sector. In 1990 
it had 67.6% of all organisations; by 2007 this figure has dropped to 44%
23
. It is to note that a 
significant share of them is state-owned. 
Research-and-production and inter-industrial corporations, concerns and consortiums 
created on the basis of research-and-production associations established in the USSR times hold 
a special niche in the business enterprise sector. These are integrated structures with competitive 
advantages in their respective industries. The advantages are provided by their organisational 
structures that allow combination of centralised research in strategic areas with decentralised 
operational management. However, the number of integrated structures in Russian S&T is not 
yet very large. 
Higher education sector. In 1995 - 2007 the total number of research organisations in this 
sector has grown by 20/5%, mainly due to independent research institutes controlled by the 
Ministry of Education and Science that conduct research for educational sphere. As already 
noted, the majority of higher education sector organisations (over 75%) are higher education 
institutions with research divisions. 
Depending on the nature of R&D, Russian colleges and universities can be divided into 
the following groups: 
 large multi-disciplinary higher education institutions with All-Russian research and 
education centre status. They have high training and S&T potential; 
 higher education institutions whose influence spreads over large territories (federal 
districts, regions etc); 
 higher education institutions which serve as research centres for small regions. They 
provide R&D support and services to local companies. 
 
Generally, the current Russian higher education sector's organisational structure has a 
good potential for innovation activity. Also, even in the USSR period and especially in the early 
                                                 
23
 R&D indicators. Statistical data book. M.: HSE, 2009. p. 109 
32 
 
gained in the course of military R&D to manufacture civilian products. SRCs play an important 
role accumulating practical S&T and innovation experience and knowledge acquired by various 
organisations throughout the economy. 
Currently there are more than 50 large S&T organisations with the SRC status. Plans for 
further SRC system development include strengthening the innovation component and 
improving integration within the system and with other sectors of the economy. Restructuring of 
Russian SRCs is synchronised with steps being taken to reorganise their internal structure. SRCs 
work at the "junction" where science meets real economy, but most of them are 
government-owned in the form of institutions, public companies or corporations with 
government-owned shares. An important step to further SRC system development as a part of the 
national innovation system should be extending their area of responsibilities. 
Geographical distribution of R&D organisations. Historically, R&D organisations in 
Russia are distributed quite unevenly, most of them are concentrated in large industrial regions. 
Like in the USSR, 39.1% of R&D organisations are located in the Central federal district (over 
20% of them – in Moscow). There are 15.1% and 15% of R&D organisations in Volga and 
Northwestern federal districts respectively. Next come Siberian (11.8%), Southern (8.7%), Urals 
(6.3%) and Far-Eastern (4%) districts
24
. 
Totally there are 86 regions, but a half of all R&D organisations in the country are 
concentrated in just 8 regions - Moscow, St. Petersburg, Nizhniy Novgorod region, Tatarstan 
Republic, Rostov, Sverdlovsk, Novosibirsk and Primorsky regions. Thus S&T sector in Russia in 
effect is still organised according to the four-level (territorial) model: 
 Level 1: Central S&T complex: Moscow, St. Petersburg and Moscow region; 
 Level 2: large industrial S&T centres: Novosibirsk, Sverdlovsk, Rostov, Saratov and 
Krasnoyarsk regions; 
 Level 3: regional S&T centres removed from the national Centre but serving as academic 
and higher education R&D hubs for their territories (Primorsky, Irkutsk and Tomsk 
regions); 
 Level 4: regions with relatively small number of S&T organisations (Vologda region - 10 
organisations, Pskov region - 8, Altai republic - 3, Chukotka autonomous district - 2 etc.). 
 
                                                 
24
 Calculated on the basis of data on main performance indicators of R&D organisations provided by the Federal 
State Statistics Service (Rosstat). 
34 
 
One of the most painful problems of the Russian science is the fact that government-owned 
budget-funded institutions remain predominant in the S&T sector. Various kinds and types of 
commercial and non-profit organisations were allowed during the transition period, but there was 
minimal change at the level of the state R&D organisations (see  Box 1). 
 Box 1 
Over 40% of all Russian R&D organisations (their total number is 1300) are government institutions. 
After federal executive agencies got the right to establish new institutions at the beginning of the 90s, 
their number has even grown by 1.5 times
25
. 
A large number (and proportion) of government-owned R&D institutions makes Russia 
very different from other industrially developed countries
26
. State R&D institutions funded by 
the government have to follow budget limitations. They have almost none of the rights (or 
responsibilities) needed for adequate economic behaviour. Claiming large amounts of public 
money, they can not guarantee that these resources will be used efficiently
27
. In this situation the 
whole government S&T sector performance is affected. 
A similar situation is taking place in the Russian economy sectors generally classified as 
social sphere (education, culture, health care etc.), showing the need to design and implement 
new more flexible autonomous and independent organisational forms
28
. 
First of all, it was decided to create new kind of government institutions to operate in the 
social sector - autonomous institutions (AI). The federal law «On Autonomous Institutions» 
passed at the end of 2006 regulates them. AIs can be set up anew, or existing government 
institutions can be reorganised into AIs. The second way is much more relevant to Russian R&D 
sector. AIs will be operating in parallel with traditional government institutions and other kinds 
of social organisations. 
Prospects for transition of the government-owned R&D organisations into the new form 
are outlined in Strategy of Science and Innovations
29
. By 2008 AIs should amount to about 12% 
                                                 
25
 R&D indicators. Statistical data book. RF Ministry of Education and Science, Federal Statistics Service, Higher 
School of Economics, 2006. 
«R&D and Innovation Development Strategy in the Russian Federation until 2015 ». Approved by 
Interdepartmental Commission on S&T and Innovation Policy on 15.02. 2006 (protocol # 1). 
26
 «Restructuring of the Public Sector: the Ways to Increase Efficiency ». International conference materials. St. 
Petersburg, 2005 .  
Sukhanova E.A. «The right to administer, the right to operational management ». Economy and Law, №6., 2000. 
«Basic civil law institutes in foreign countries». Comparative legal study. M., «Norma», 2000. 
27
 A whole host of data provided in section 3 illustrates that, describing patent and other commercial activities of 
R&D organisations and innovation activity by companies and organisations. 
28
 Ozerova N.B. «Restructuring the budget sector. Reasons, principles, directions. Financial monitoring of the 
budget sphere ». Financial Monitoring, №2, 2004. 
«The steps to be taken to increase efficiency of federal property management » Materials for the RF government 
meeting (17 March 2005). 
29
 «R&D and Innovation Development Strategy in the Russian Federation until 2015 ». Approved by 
Interdepartmental Commission on S&T and Innovation Policy on 15.02. 2006 (protocol # 1). 
36 
 
2.2.1.2. Modernisation of the state academies of science 
 
As already noted, state academies (or to be more precise, academies of science with state 
status) are a very common, traditional organisational form of R&D activity in Russia (and 
previously in the USSR). Academies are engaged not just in basic but also applied research and 
experimental development. The academies modernisation is a very important task because there 
is no adequate definition of state academies' legal status and organisational form by Russian 
legislation up to now (see  Box 2). 
 Box 2 
According to legislation and its own nature, the USSR Academy of science was a government 
institution, i.e. organisation established by the state, and fully matched all institutional criteria defined 
by Soviet laws. Research institutions inside the Academy were also government institutions of the 
same kind. Academy of science's property was considered to be the socialist public property. 
Academy of science was funded by the state budget. The Soviet and later the Russian (until the 
mid-90s) legislation lacked mechanisms of its property rights regulation. Currently there are five 
academies of science in Russia - Russian Academy of Science (RAS) and sectoral academies 
(agricultural, medical, educational, of arts, of architecture and construction). The modernisation issues 
are especially important to the RAS, which controls over 450 R&D organisations. 
 
The most unusual feature of state academies' legal status is its "mixed" nature, which 
combines elements of government institution, public association and some other forms (e.g. 
corporation and alliance). 
Another specific feature is the fact that academies act as holdings, "owning" non-profit 
organisations. As government institutions, academies have control over a number of various 
other organisations and enterprises. Creating an institution (academy) consisting of many other 
institutions (research institutes) causes property conflicts is not allowed by civil laws in Russia. 
However, according to the federal law "On science and national science and technology policy", 
state academies are an exception, organised exactly in this way. 
Finally, an important feature of state academies' status is that actually they operate as 
government institutions, whereas by law they cannot have such authorities being self-governing 
organisations. Academies receive and manage government funding provided by the state to 
support their research institutes. They can manage and control institutions, create and close them. 
This "mix" of various organisational, legal and administrative forms has no analogues in 
the world, and is a painful problem to the state. Most worrying is the mismatch between 
performance and economic results of academies' R&D operation and the amount of public 
money invested in them. There are other problems as well – inefficient federal property and 
public funds use monitoring, insufficient transparency in financial resources allocation and use. 
38 
 
university R&D was considered unnecessary, and therefore university R&D resources were poor. It 
was a serious factor for the state R&D institutions domination, operating separately both from HEIs 
and industrial enterprises. In 2004 state research institutions amounted to about 60% of all R&D 
organisations. Before the USSR breakdown (in 1989) HEIs received just 7% of all civilian R&D 
funding. Almost twenty years later this figure became even smaller, amounting to 5.8% in 2005. As a 
result, R&D products developed by HEIs contribute less than one persent to the country's GDP
33
. 
 
At the early 1990s education and R&D integration activities had risen. In a situation of the 
government funding reduction integration was a way to survive both for universities and R&D 
institutions. During this period laws allowed certain financial and organisational "liberties"
34
, 
leading to emergence of new integrated structures (research and training centres etc.). It was 
especially evident far from the federal centre. Integration processes around leading regional HEIs 
with active participation of scientific and educational communities and regional authorities were 
well marked. 
However such integrated relationships have not been legal according to the R&D and 
education legislation. The law did not approve such principles as the government support for the 
integration, or multiple integration forms. After some years the legal uncertainty has even 
increased. Even integration forms accepted by the Soviet legislation (e.g. basic university 
departments in R&D institutions and basic research laboratories in universities) has become 
illegal (see  Box 4). As the RF President said, "there is still a wide gap in the ties between 
training institutions, enterprises and research organisations."
35
 
 
 Box 4 
The only authorised form to create basic department, laboratories, training and research centres was 
civil contract, but it did not allow to solve all problems with funding integrated structures or providing 
them property, with their monitoring and management mechanisms etc. Government funding of HEI 
research divisions was discontinued: now it was considered to be inappropriate use of budget 
resources allocated to HEI for their mainline operations, etc. Ambiguity of legal position became the 
reason behind unwillingness to create integrated structures. 
 
Education activates at R&D organisations are not allowed yet (except postgraduate studies 
and doctorates). It was especially painful to academic organisations previously connected with 
HEIs by lots of formal and informal ties. At the same time R&D labour force reproduction is 
cannot be realised by post-graduate training and refresher courses only. Development of 
                                                 
33
 Gokhberg L. R&D Statistics. M., TEIS, 2003. 
«Education in the Russian Federation». Statistical data book. RF Ministry of Education and Science, Federal 
Statistics Service, Higher School of Economics, 2005. 
34
 E.g. HEI were allowed to set up independent research institutes. 
35
 Introductory speech at the meeting of the RF President's Council on Science, Technology and Education in 
Zelenograd on 17.10.2006.  
40 
 
and consulting products to training and education, publication of scientific articles and research 
results, web-resources support etc. 
During the debates the research universities subject was excluded from the draft law 
on integration, to speed up legalisation of existing basic departments and basic laboratories. 
As to research universities, it was proposed to pass a special law "On research universities 
in the Russian Federation". However, in the end Russia got no "integration" law at all: the 
draft law on integration is still being discussed by the Russian government while the draft 
law on research universities remains at the drafting stage. 
 
2.2.2. Budgetary Reforms 
2.2.2.1. S&T Budgetary Funding Trends
37
 
 
During the transition period, starting from 1991, the amount of government funding 
allocated for S&T as percentage of Russia's GDP has reduced by three times - from 1.85% to 
0.67%. It is to note that this catastrophic (both in terms of scale and timeframe) decline happened 
in just one year - between 1991 and 1992 (see figure 12). The top value was achieved in 1997. 
Despite noticeable increase of civilian R&D funding out of the federal budget (by about 14% in 
2003-2004, 50% in 2004-2005, 25% in 2005-2006
38
), these expenditures are still below both the 
1991 and the USSR levels. 
In 2003-2006, the total share of S&T federal budget funding has increased from 3.9 to 
4.4%, and expenditures on civilian R&D - from 1.9 to 2.3%. 
  
                                                 
37
 All calculations and illustrations are based in publicly available statistics for 1991-2004. Calculations for the 
more recent period were based on budgetary data for appropriate years. 
38
 2006 - planned figure. 
42 
 
 
Table 5. Structure of budget allocations under «Basic research and promotion of technological 
progress» section of the federal budget (percentages)
41
 
 1992 1995 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 
Total 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 
Ministries and government agencies 77 75.2 69.2 69.7 67.4 70.3 73.7 73.2 
Specialised budgetary funds - 5.5 7.1 8 7.6 8.1 8.2 6.9 
Priority areas for S&T development 23 19.3 23.7 22.3 25 21.6 18.1 19.9 
 
A large proportion of the budgetary R&D funding was allocated through ministries and 
government agencies (see table 5). They receive about 70% of all expenditures (including 
academies of science). Except the academies, ministries and government agencies mostly 
oversee allocation of funds to finance applied research. "Basic research and promotion of 
technological progress" section of the budget also included funding of specialised budgetary 
foundations (about 7% in 2004) and priority areas for S&T development (20%). Statistical data 
to confirm or disprove these proportions for the 2005-2006 period is not yet available. However, 
one could safely assume that even if the share of funds allocated through ministries and 
government agencies decreases, it won't be by much. 
Funding allocated to ministries and government agencies is used to provide financial 
support to government-owned R&D organisations and to implement target federal programmes 
(TFP) and departmental programmes
42
 (see figure 13). 
A large proportion of budget funds made available to S&T organisations are allocated 
without any tenders, with no conditions or examination. Such policy protects interests of 
research institutes with strong positions in the government sector. It encourages not actual 
R&D and innovation activity but simulation of work. 
                                                 
41
 Calculated on the basis of data in: Science in the Russian Federation. Statistical data book. M.: HSE, 2005. p. 58 
42
 Federal target programmes (FTP) are plans to develop large social and economic areas proposed and 
implemented by government ministries. By 2006 there were 6 FTP areas in Russia: development of 
infrastructure, new generation, restructuring of justice, safety of human activities and environment protection, 
new economy, regional parity. 
44 
 
allocated through target programmes, to extend the range of programme application and 
targeting budget planning techniques and reduce the non-programme expenditures. In 2007, 
implementation of modified programme "Priority R&D to advance Russian S&T complex for the 
period 2007-2012" begins. Two other federal programmes - "Transfer of dual technologies" and 
"Development of education" - and four departmental target programmes - "Priority support of 
world-class basic research", "Targeted basic research in Russian HEI", "Development of research 
potential of higher education institutions" and "Support of unique installations and shared use of 
research equipment", as well as a number of technological departmental programmes (aviation 
engineering, space exploration, information and medical technologies, design of optical 
electronic devices, alternative energy sources, new materials etc.). Large-scale innovative 
projects' share in the above programmes will be increased. 
Resources managed by Russian state budgetary foundations are also allocated by tender. 
Currently there are three budgetary foundations in Russia: Russian Foundation for Basic 
Research (RFBR), Foundation for Assistance to Small Innovative Enterprises (FASIE, or the 
Bortnik Foundation) and Russian Humanitarian Science Foundation (RHSF). See table 6 for 
details on allocation of resources provided by these foundations. 
About 70% of all budgetary foundations' resources are allocated to RFBR. Its main 
objective is basic research support. The foundation's money comes from the federal budget and 
voluntary contributions by companies and individuals. Using non-budgetary resources, the 
foundation may finance projects undertaken by organisations or individuals. The foundation 
provides funding as grants, allocated by tender irrespective of applicant R&D organisations' 
ownership or individuals' age and credentials. 
Table 6. Allocation of the federal budget resources provided to target budgetary foundations 
under section «Basic research and promotion of technological progress» (percentage) 
 1994 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 
Total 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 
Russian Foundation for Basic Research  86.4 62.1 71.7 74.8 75.1 71.5 70.6 70.7 69.5 
Foundation for Assistance to Small 
Innovative Enterprises 
9.1 19.5 12.6 12.6 12.4 16.7 17.6 17.7 18.6 
Russian Humanitarian Science Foundation 4.5 18.4 15.7 12.6 12.5 11.8 11.8 11.7 11.9 
 
46 
 
scientists to establish small companies to make practical uses of their own R&D products, 
and helps small businesses to sign licensing agreements on implementation of intellectual 
property products at public R&D organisations (the "Pace" programme). 
  
48 
 
according to government policy priorities; 
- targeting and programming planning techniques application; 
- developing a system of real and objective (target) indicators to evaluate 
performance of executive agencies, etc. 
In effect Russia has entered into a new stage of public funds management - mid-term 
performance-oriented budgeting. All these principles were applied for the first time in the 2006 
budget, when parallel to traditional one-year budgeting projections a prospective three-year 
financial plan was developed
44
. 
Table 7. Federal budget funds allocated for R&D, by sections and subsections of the RF 
functional classification of budget expenditures (million roubles) 
 
 2005 2006 
Basic and applied research 
Total 
167 637,5 187 415,6 
Out of that:   
- basic research  30 145,1 38 637,4 
- applied research - total 137 492,4 148 778,3 
Out of that in the area of:   
National issues  3443,5 5 068,8 
National defence  89 402,2 92 917,9 
National security and law enforcement 2 769,1 3 573,1 
National economy 38 535,8 43906,0 
Housing and communal services 60,0 0,46 
Environment protection 171,0 183,1 
Education 1749,7 868,5 
Culture, cinema and mass media 191,1 225,8 
Health care and sports 1 094,2 1 910,1 
Social policy 75,9 124,3 
Total federal budget expenditures 3 539 450,6 4 270 114,7 
Expenditures on basic and applied research as 
percentage of total federal budget expenditures 
4,74 4,39 
 
One of important areas of budgeting process development was restructuring of budget 
classification and accounting. However according to Budgeting Process Restructuring Concept 
the new classification was brought in line with the main functions of government agencies and 
                                                 
44
 «Education in the Russian Federation». Statistical data book. RF Ministry of Education and Science, Federal 
Statistics Service, Higher School of Economics, 2005. 
50 
 
 
2.2.2.3. Further Steps 
 
In the situation when the state remains the largest R&D "sponsor", the following tasks 
become particularly important: restructuring the government sector of R&D; abandoning 
dispersion of funds between numerous organisations and areas; financial mechanisms 
streamlining. 
1. Direct government support of applied research and technologies should be brought to a 
certain minimum, supporting the most relevant to the national priorities only. Foresight is 
considered to be the most useful tool for national priorities setting is, which already 
interests not only Russian scientists but officials as well. The first project on practical 
implementation of foresight technology in Russia will be implemented in 2006-2008. 
2. In 2005 Russia finally began implementation of the Concept and programme for the 
R&D government sector restructuring. The main reform directions are the following: 
- Reduction of the number of direct public funds recipients in favour of more 
efficient organisations engaged in world-class R&D in both basic and applied 
areas; 
- New R&D organisational forms introduction to match market economy 
environment. Legal and organisation structure of R&D sector will be gradually 
changing in favour of autonomous non-profit and private organisations and 
autonomous institutions. 
Organisations that have completely lost their research profile could not retain personnel, 
material and technical resources will be liquidated and their property sold at auctions 
(with proceeds credited to R&D budget). Organisations that retained at least some of their 
research potential will be handed over to HEI or privatised on condition their research 
profile would be preserved (this would serve as additional factor promoting development 
of corporate R&D). 
3. A very important principle of the forthcoming restructuring of R&D funding is a 
transition from subsiding to crediting, in line with moving on along the innovation 
"chain" (basic research - applied research - development - implementation of innovations 
- consumption of innovation products). After 2007 total amount of budget appropriations 
52 
 
low, and not only because of the legal gaps and budget limitations. Russia lacks the most 
important motivation that pushes government and business towards each other - mutual 
trust. Private investors are not ready to work without a specific long-term programme 
(which would include government's obligations). Large-scale innovation projects can 
cover the costs in about 10-15 years; specific programmes are drafted for much shorter 
periods, and the budget in effect covers just one year. There was a negative experience, 
when the state refused to keep on funding R&D and innovation programmes and projects 
before they were completed. Short-term joint funding schemes are factors preventing the 
government, the R&D sector and the business from establishing contact with each other. 
Investors and the state are acting separately, and their investments in the innovation 
sphere almost never meet each other. The exceptions are some of the high-tech sectors, 
e.g. information and communications technologies. 
Moving on in this direction requires introduction and development of legal instruments 
regulating cooperative agreements in R&D sector, grant support and long-term government 
orders for R&D. In all developed countries these forms are used to establish public and 
private sector partnerships and apply the R&D potential efficiently. Using such tools and 
mechanisms, developing standards and frameworks for independent expert evaluation 
would raise the whole system of R&D funding on a new level of quality, promote a 
practical shift towards projects and programme funding, increase financial transparency and 
streamline procedures for earning and spending profits, as well as sharing the risks of R&D 
and innovation activity. 
 
2.2.3. National Priorities Setting 
 
2.2.3.1. Identification of national S&T priority areas  
 
Science and technology policies in developed countries have undergone considerable 
changes over the past 30 years. Although initially their role consisted mainly in funding basic 
research as a way of supporting knowledge generation, providing the research facilities and 
creating instruments for supporting research organizations and public S&T and innovation 
programs, their new objectives have expanded to such goals as achieving greater research 
efficiency and more intensive transfer of knowledge by means of establishing networks 
54 
 
development of competitive products and services and for enhancing national security. 
The first list of S&T priorities of the Russian Federation was created in the middle of the 
1990-ies. In 1996, Government Commission on Scientific and Technological Policies approved a 
list of eight Priority Areas for Scientific and Technological Development. In 1999 this list was 
submitted to a large-scale examination by more than 1000 leading Russian experts. Their 
analysis revealed that Russia had largely slipped from the forefront of many applied research 
areas, the weakest aspect being the poor state of the national innovation system and a low 
demand for research outcomes in the national economy. Russia still maintained strong positions 
in some areas of basic research and applications that were relevant for the defense sector, such as 
space research, nuclear power engineering, etc., as well as in some applied research that had no 
serious market prospects (for instance, pipelines for transporting coal suspension) or were 
country-specific to Russia (e. g., open-pit uranium mining). Russian science was unfortunately 
much weaker in the rapidly developing areas with the greatest demand for research outcomes 
(information technologies, telecommunication, biotechnologies, etc.). 
The expert analysis awakened the awareness of an urgent need to reconsider the system 
of S&T priorities, concentrating on a small number of ―breakthrough‖ directions. In 2000-2001 
new lists of nine S&T priority areas and 52 critical technologies were developed. The purpose of 
their formulation consisted in reducing the number of priority areas, so as to concentrate 
resources in the most important fields of innovation. 
In the spring of 2002, the situation in Russia‘s S&T sphere was discussed at a joint 
meeting of the Security Council and the Presidium of the State Council for Science and 
Advanced technologies under the President of the Russian Federation. Following the discussion, 
Russian President approved Basic Policies of the Russian Federation in the Sphere of Scientific 
and Technological Development for the Period Ending 2010 and Further Prospects. This 
document has become an important element of Russia‘s social and economic development 
strategy, with its goals of innovation-based economic development, creation of an effective 
national innovation system and making science and technology one of Russia‘s greatest priorities. 
Simultaneously, the Russian President approved the new priorities of science and technologies, 
thus boosting their status. 
Implementation of the Basic Policies implies that all decisions relating to the support of 
science, allocation of budget funds and targeted stimulation of research and innovation should be 
founded on the defined S&T priorities. The document called for a regular review of S&T 
priorities based on the goals set in the Concept and Programs of Russia‘s medium and long term 
56 
 
represented research areas that were too broad to become real targets for selecting technologies 
for priority government support and for private investment, and Russia‘s Ministry of Education 
and Science organized work to revise and correct these lists in 2003—2004. 
 
2.2.3.3. Revision of S&T Priorities 
The revision of S&T priorities was carried out during a period of sustained economic 
growth and great improvement of the state government system. According to international 
experience, long-term sustainable development is achievable only as a result of high 
entrepreneurial and innovation activities both in production and service sectors, diversification of 
production and greater share of sophisticated and hi-tech products. Thus concentrating resources 
in the areas where Russia‘s competitive advantages can be implemented helps faster introduction 
of innovation based on latest research outcomes and technologies, which at present is a key 
factor that determines the competitiveness of the national economy. This is particularly 
important for Russia because of its present strong dependence on the international markets of 
fuel and mineral resources.  
One of the main objectives in revising the priorities was to create an information and 
analysis background for defining budgeting priorities and forming the Federal S&T Program 
―Research and Development in Priority Areas of Science and Technology,‖ as well as for other 
federal and sectoral goal-oriented programs, eventually resulting in greater efficiency of public 
funds invested into S&T. 
Given Russia‘s new economic development model, with its goal of faster GDP growth, 
greater increase of competitive capacity of the national economy and its diversification based on 
high technologies, the revision of priorities had a practical purpose, in that the newly formulated 
lists of priorities and critical technologies were to be correlated with industry‘s needs so that they 
could serve as a basis for managerial decisions on intensification of innovation activities, 
practical implementation of the existing research capacities and concentration of public R&D 
funding in the most important S&T areas. 
The revision of the priorities had the following general objectives: 
 Developing criteria for evaluating technologies; 
 Analyzing components of existing critical technologies, expert assessment of their 
input in developing innovation products that would be competitive in domestic and 
foreign markets; 
58 
 
 contribution to accelerating GDP growth and enhancing competitiveness of Russia‘s 
national economy; 
 capacity for enhancing Russia‘s national security, including its technological security. 
The capacity for enhancing Russia‘s national security was assessed based on the 
following factors: 
 overcoming dependence on imports of particularly important goods and technologies; 
 competitive capacity compared to their foreign equivalents (price and technological 
characteristics) of domestic technologies for reducing technogenic catastrophe risks.  
The prospective contribution to GDP growth and enhancement of competitiveness was 
assessed based on the following factors: 
 competitiveness in domestic and foreign markets (quality and functionalities 
compared to equivalent foreign products, market entry barriers, etc.); 
 capacity of existing and prospective markets for products embodying critical 
technologies both in Russia and abroad as well as their characteristics (stable, 
emerging, etc.) 
 prospective rates of sales in domestic and foreign markets. 
In selecting critical technologies for the civil sector it was decided to restrict their number 
to a minimum due to the need for concentrating resources. Thus it will be possible to provide 
sufficient budget funding for each of the critical technologies through the federal S&T program 
―Research and Development in Priority Science and Technology Areas.‖ 
Furthermore, the following additional criteria were used for evaluating critical 
technologies: 
1. Precise and accurate formulation. Formulations covering too many technologies of 
various importance were excluded or altered. 
2. Detailed description of the composition of critical technologies. Priority areas provide 
only the basic guidelines for S&T development, while critical technologies represent those 
technological areas where the most important research is actually focused. Clearly, a few dozen 
topics cannot cover research and innovation projects likely to produce the greatest returns on 
invested budget funds. Therefore it was decided not to simply reduce the number of critical 
technologies, but rather, to identify breakthrough technologies with applications capable of 
providing growth rates in specific product groups that would far exceed average domestic growth 
60 
 
 overcoming the dependence on imports of vital products and technologies that are or 
may be prevented from being sold to Russia by some governments. 
The experts were also asked to describe the main features of each of the products and 
identify technologies that need to be developed for their creation. 
The information on the products thus obtained was systematized and offered to expert 
panels for discussions that were held concerning each priority. During the expert panel 
discussions, the original set of products was reviewed and major innovation product groups were 
identified, which, according to the experts, could have the greatest effect on GDP growth in the 
immediate future, and on which government funding should be focused. As a result of expert 
panel discussions, there was formed a set of the most important innovation products (services) 
that can be produced in Russia in the next 10 years. As a rule, the sets encompassed 
approximately 20-30 product groups in each priority area. 
This was a reference points for a revision of the existing critical technologies and 
proposing amendments. To this end, the experts were asked to estimate the degree to which old 
critical technologies are involved in creating important innovation products. Thus, the expert 
panel debates resulted in the formation of new, preliminary lists of priorities, critical 
technologies and major innovation products.  
In order to identify the most promising critical technologies, an additional experts survey 
was held with the object of providing a comprehensive evaluation of the preliminary set of 
innovation products that resulted from expert panel discussions. 
For each innovation product the following issues were assessed: projected annual volume of 
sales (in Russia and abroad), competitive capacity (on domestic and foreign markets), possible 
date of launching it into production, the ownership of technologies required for production, 
availability of production facilities, etc. Furthermore, the experts identified several Russian 
organizations that possess technologies required for launching the production of major 
innovation products and provided other information (i. e. barriers, measures to be taken before 
production can start, availability of qualified human resources, etc.). In assessing products in the 
area of ecology and rational nature utilization, the questionnaires were slightly modified. Thus, 
instead of evaluating sales volumes, the experts were asked to evaluate prospective annual 
ecological effect (prevented damage to ecology less environmental protection costs). 
While responding to this questionnaire, the experts were again asked to review the 
formulation of critical technologies as proposed by expert panels, amending innovation product 
sets if necessary. The experts‘ responses were pooled and later used to assess various aspects of 
62 
 
Compared to the current list, their number was reduced from 52 to 33 (see Table 8). The list had 
become more focused both in number of technologies and in their substance. Thus, as a result of 
the multistage discussion process, new lists of S&T priorities and critical technologies were 
created, containing technologies that would make it possible to achieve average growth rate and 
competitive capacity in certain groups of high-tech products that would be far ahead of average 
GDP growth rates, and to create S&T outcome for a broad range of innovations in different 
economic and social sectors. Critical technologies are also instrumental in providing national 
defense and technological safety. The President of the Russian Federation approved both lists in 
May 2006. 
 
Table 8. Critical Technologies of the Russian Federation 
Information and Telecommunications Systems 
Technologies for creation of intelligent navigation and management systems 
Technologies for transmission, processing and protection of information 
Technologies of distributed computing and systems 
Software production technologies  
Bioinformation technologies  
Technologies for creation of electronic components 
Industry of Nanosystems and Materials 
Nanotechnologies and nanomaterials 
Technologies of creation and processing polymers and elastomers  
Technologies of creation and processing crystals with special qualities 
Technologies of mechatronics and creation of microsystem equipment  
Technologies of creation and processing composites and ceramic materials  
Technologies of creation of membranes and catalyst systems 
Technologies of creation of biocompatible materials 
Living Systems 
Bioengineering technologies 
Cell technologies 
Biosensor technologies 
Biomedical technologies of human life support and protection 
Genome and post-genome technologies for creation of medicines 
Biocatalysis and biosynthesis technologies 
Rational Nature Utilization 
Technologies of monitoring and forecasting the condition of atmosphere and hydrosphere 
Technologies of evaluating resources and forecasting the condition of lithosphere and biosphere 
Technologies of processing and utilization of technogenic formations and wastes  
Technologies of reducing risks and lowering consequences of natural and techogenic 
catastrophes  
Technologies of ecologically safe exploration of layers and mining  
Power Engineering and Energy Saving 
64 
 
technologies space systems 
 Space and aviation 
technologies 
 
Manufacturing 
technologies 
Manufacturing 
technologies 
 
 Prospective armaments, 
military and special 
equipment 
Prospective armaments, 
military and special 
equipment 
  Safety and counteracting 
terrorism 
 
 
2.2.3.4. Priority S&T areas: contents and innovation capacities  
In information and telecommunication systems priority will be given to technologies 
for creating intelligent management systems for complex objects and navigation systems, 
technologies for transmitting, processing and protecting information, technologies for software 
development and technologies for computation systems. As a result, it will allow developing 
within a short period of time such novel products and services as intelligent systems for 
supporting complex equipment operators and creating automated production facilities; intelligent 
robots; smart houses and vehicles; systems for a single telecommunications network 
encompassing the Internet, television, radio, various multimedia and virtual reality systems; 
automated systems for contacts with government agencies at all levels; standard electronic 
identification documents; distance education and health care systems, etc. that will have far 
greater quality and effectiveness than similar products of older generation. 
In nanosystems industry and materials the most important breakthroughs can be 
expected in the sphere of nanotechnologies and technologies for mechatronics and microsystem 
equipment development; technologies for creating crystals; developing and processing materials 
with special qualities, composite and ceramic materials, polymers and elastomers. There is 
hardly any area in the aviation and space industry, transportation, electrical power industry, oil 
industry, microelectronics or medicine that can develop without such materials. These critical 
technologies are also important for resolving the existing ecological problems. 
Some of the most important innovation products and services in this area, which are 
likely to have the greatest economic effect, are ceramic and composite materials with functional 
properties (super ion conductors, superconductors, magnetic materials, etc.); materials 
possessing critical properties (superhard, high- and low-temperature materials); carbon-based 
materials (diamond films, carbon nanotubes); barrier and protective materials for metallurgy and 
66 
 
steam and gas turbine plants, and other competitive products meeting the best foreign 
equivalents. Some of the most important priorities for technological development are creating 
power-saving transportation systems, heat and electricity distribution and consumption systems 
based on superconductor and semiconductor devices, devices for monitoring and controlling 
power generation and consumption, adjustable heating and ventilation systems for public and 
private dwellings, etc. 
The experts pointed out that the area of information and telecommunications systems 
has the greatest innovation capacity. According to some estimates, the export of software 
amounted to approximately US$ 400 billion as early as 2000, mostly accounted by offshore 
programming services. Export forecasts for 2010 are as high as US$ 2-4 billion. When the 
Russian president visited Novosibirsk in December 2004, it was decided to provide priority 
government support to ICT innovation centers, which makes the industry‘s prospects even more 
optimistic. 
The area with the next greatest possible production volumes is power engineering and 
energy saving, where Russian companies are capable of achieving sales volumes of US$ 3-4 
billion, with several dozen million dollars‘ worth of exports. 
In nanosystems and materials, the greatest export growth rates can be expected in the 
following product groups: 
 fibers, ceramic, non-organic composite materials and technologies; 
 carbon-based materials and technologies; 
 new-generation materials for fuel element; 
 new types of electrode materials;  
 new generation of materials for pipeline and maritime transportation; 
 radiation-resistant metal and ceramic materials, glasses for nuclear and aerospace 
equipment; 
 materials for security devices. 
In biotechnologies, the 2004 exports of immunobiological and antibiotic substances 
alone amounted to US$ 35 million, and they may reach US$ 100-120 million by 2010. The 
experts noted that the following products and services have the greatest export potential: 
molecular biological microchip diagnostics of the most wide-spread human diseases and 
contagious disease agents and their metabolism products; genetically engineered 
68 
 
recommendations to CIS countries regarding legal regulation of innovation activity. 
To create a legal framework for government support of innovation activity, a draft federal 
law is prepared introducing concepts "technological innovation" and "innovation activity in 
technological innovation sphere". 
To create economic incentives for R&D and innovation activity, a package of draft laws 
is prepared to amend the Russian tax legislation. It includes draft laws defining specific features 
for calculating tax base for organisations spending money on R&D, and immunity from VAT on 
all R&D by all organisations, regardless of the source of funding. 
To create legal framework for application of technologies developed at the cost of the 
federal budget and allocations from regional budgets, draft federal law "On technology transfer" 
is prepared. It presumes the need to develop and pass a law on transfer of federal technologies, to 
regulate specific aspects of exercising property rights to technologies owned by the Russian 
Federation. 
Possible areas of further development of legal framework for innovation activity include 
the drafting and passing of the following laws: 
 
1. "On government support of innovation activity". This law should establish 
comprehensive, inter-sectoral nature of innovation activity; the need for all executive 
authorities to take part in encouraging and regulation of innovation activity; establish 
specific and targeted measures to support innovation activity. This law would not serve as 
a universal legal act in the innovation activity area; it is not likely to develop such a 
universal law at all. The law would establish specific forms of government support to 
innovation activity, as well as very clear instructions for federal executive agencies (both 
in terms of steps to be taken and the timeframes), regarding drafting and approving 
regulations aimed at providing appropriate support to innovation activity. 
2. "On federal technologies transfer" and appropriate regulations to develop the law's 
provisions and regulate specific aspects of managing property rights to technologies 
owned by the Russian Federation. 
3. "On government financial support of R&D and innovation activity", to establish 
procedures for government funding of innovation projects; and other bills to improve 
other forms of government financial support of R&D and innovation activity. 
4. "On risk funding", to regulate creation and activities of venture companies. 
 
70 
 
projects. 
 
2.2.5.2. Federal Taxes 
 
VAT. After introduction of the RF Tax Code in 2000-2001, tax breaks for hardware 
imported into Russia for R&D purposes and for periodic scientific publications were 
cancelled. Only technological equipment, components and spare parts for them are 
tax-exempted as investment in organisations' authorised capital, plus publications received 
by state libraries and museums as part of international book exchange. 
Since 2002, sales of periodic publications as well as their editing, publishing and printing 
are subject to VAT. The tax code no longer has provision about preferential taxation of patent 
and licensing operations connected with industrial property. 
Accordingly, to set up mechanisms for indirect motivation of R&D and innovation 
activity the following amendments to the RF Tax Code can be proposed: 
 
1. VAT breaks should be extended to cover small innovation enterprises and individual 
entrepreneurs engaged in R&D and innovation activity, regardless of their revenues. 
2. The following operations should be exempted from VAT: 
 all R&D; 
 sales of scientific and training printing materials, periodic publications of scientific and 
educational nature, and relevant work and services. 
 
3. In article 150 of the RF Tax Code, import of technological equipment, components and 
spare parts for it and import of printing materials of scientific and educational nature 
should be exempted from VAT. 
4. Patent and licensing operations (except brokerage) connected with industrial property 
(excluding trade marks and service marks) should be exempted from VAT. 
 
Individual income tax. An important condition of development of Russian R&D and 
increasing efficiency of government policy aimed at increasing and preserving Russia's 
intellectual potential is improving well-being of scientists and ensuring their income remains 
72 
 
Another possible step is to exempt small innovation enterprises from all taxation for the 
first two years after creation. 
The list of foundations included in the Tax Code, whose target funding is not considered 
as profits, is unjustifiably short. 
The Tax Code does not take into account specific features of expenditures made in the 
course of R&D and innovation activity, and does not consider as direct expenditures certain 
significant costs such as expenditures on special equipment for R&D (experimental) work, 
expenditures to buy or use new kinds of hardware and materials, etc. Reducing tax base by 
writing off these expenditures involves serious discussions with tax authorities, which is a 
lengthy and arduous process with no guaranteed results. 
Taxpayers' expenditures in the form of property given out for free currently cannot be 
written of the profit tax base. However, to encourage R&D activity resources made available, as 
gifts must not be taxed. 
As was already noted, R&D expenditures are included in taxpayers' total expenditures for 
two or three years (depending on results). It is reasonable to include these costs in total 
expenditures for 12 months, regardless of actual R&D results. 
It would also make sense to remove all limitations on interest for promissory notes for 
credits received to finance R&D, which reduce profit tax base. 
Unified social tax. This tax is paid by entities that make payments to individuals, mainly 
by organisations and individual entrepreneurs. Standard tax rate is 26%. Various special rates are 
used to tax agricultural producers, organisations engaged in popular arts and crafts, small native 
communities in the far north who live off traditional industries, individual entrepreneurs and 
advocates. 
To encourage R&D activity, it should be useful to apply a special rate of 14% to unified 
social tax paid by R&D organisations. 
 
2.2.5.3. Regional and Local Taxes 
 
Property tax on organisations. In 2003, during the reform of tax legislation, the 
majority of R&D organisations have lost their property tax breaks. Currently the following types 
of property are exempt from tax: 
 
74 
 
2. Insufficient consulting and marketing support for the technopark residents. There is little 
positive experience in development and implementation of innovative technologies and 
products to the mass market in Russia. Considering little demand of small innovative 
enterprises inside technoparks for costly consulting services, there is no mechanism, for 
co-funding such services from the budget sources. 
3. Limited efficiency of technoparks organisation model in Russia. In many countries 
technoparks are found by universities or firms, but operating independently. A typical 
Russian technopark in most cases stays as a part of HEI or research institution 
organisational structure. 
4. Weak technology commercialisation at universities and research institutes hinders 
start-ups creation. 
5. Lack of trained staff for technoparks and other specialised organisations involved in 
technology commercialisation.  
6. Lack of technopark performance monitoring and best practices diffusion. 
The main trends of state policy for technoparks in Russia are listed below: 
1. technopark industrial zone development; 
2. business incubators support within technoparks; 
3. technopark start-ups financial support; 
4. support for technology commercialisation at universities, research institutes, and 
industrial enterprises in partnership with technoparks; 
5. balance between defence and civil technology transfer; 
6. providing conversion and commercialisation mechanisms for defence ‗dual-purpose‘ 
technologies. 
 
2.2.6.2. Technopark industrial zone development 
 
The following measures shall be implemented within this direction: 
a) Federal lands provision for technoparks on a competitive basis. These sites can be 
provided both for ownership and for long lease. 
b) Technopark infrastructure direct investments by federal executive bodies. 
c) Creation of favourable conditions for technoparks investment (including 
construction-sites, transport and living infrastructure funding) sharing expenditures 
between federal and regional authorities.  
76 
 
features is beautiful surroundings, harmony with natural environment and local traditions.  
There are some examples of successful technopolis creation and development in Russia: 
Pushchino, Dubna, Obninsk and others. Over the last fifty years more that fifty medium-sized 
and small science-cities appeared in Russia. Their activity is almost completely concentrated on 
scientific research and practical application of their results. These cities are Dubna, Zhukovsky, 
Zelenograd, Korolev, Obninsk, Protvino, Pushchino, less known Dimitrovgrad, Krasnoarmeiisk, 
Obolensk, Seversk, Sarov, and Sosnovy Bor. 
Mostly researchers and their families populate them. Orientation toward scientific activity 
and specific tasks determined the lack of ―traditional‖ infrastructure elements like, for example, 
agricultural complex. Therefore, after dramatic decrease of state support in the 1990s these cities 
faced extremely difficult economic and social problems. 
The Federal Law «On the Status of Science City in the Russian Federation» introduced in 
April 1998 provided new survival strategies in the market economy. This Law defined the 
science city concept and special state support mechanisms. 
The science city is a municipal entity of the Russian Federation with particular urban 
science and production complex. This complex consists of institutions carrying out research, 
development and innovation activity, and training of personnel in accordance with the national 
priorities in science and technology. 
According to the Law, the President of the Russian Federation should confirm the science 
city status for the period of 25 years. The President approves the priorities determined by the 
Government for the science city as well as the state programme for science development which 
specifies federal support forms for science cities with regard to the their specialisation. 
Science city funding, as well as logistical and maintenance support, is provided from the 
federal budget, budgets of the appropriate subjects of the Russian Federation, local budgets, and 
other funding sources in accordance with the constituent instrument. 
The first Russian science city Obninsk (Kaluga Region) was open in May 2000. It is 
famous by the world-first nuclear power station launched here in 1954. Obninsk development 
programme provides autonomous mechanisms for the city development without special state 
support. 
In late 2001, by the Resolution of the President of the Russian Federation No. 1472 the 
science city Dubna (Moscow Region) was open. The city of Dubna was founded in 1956. It is 
known by the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research located here and joining research efforts of 18 
78 
 
innovation projects implementation (on a competitive basis). The main problem today is lack of 
mechanisms transferring federal funding to specific scientific projects. 
Science cities are supposed to attract considerable foreign investment as venture business 
centers and areas of science, education and technologies integration. Today more than 70% of 
science cities have innovation-oriented higher education institutions. The services provided by 
technoparks, innovation-technology centres, small-business incubators, and innovation-industrial 
complexes are almost completely overlapping. 
  
80 
 
 Technology and innovation special economic areas. 
 
Special economic areas can be created on land owned by the government and/or 
municipalities only. Residents of these areas (registered on the competition basis) enjoy 
particular state support like tax breaks and special credit terms. Currently there are four 
technological and innovation special economic areas and two industrial and manufacturing ones 
in Russia. 
  
82 
 
institutions and ensure that legislation is in fact enforced, the following challenges must be met: 
efficient protection of private property, and general recognition of the fact that ability to protect 
property is an indicator of favourable investment climate and efficient governance. 
Particular attention should be paid to reforming the judicial system - to ensure that court 
rulings are efficiently and fairly enforced, and create an environment where Russian companies 
would feel more confortable under Russian jurisdiction (rather than moving to off-shore zones), 
and would use Russian judicial system for settling their disputes including property-related ones. 
Achieving this requires a radical increase of transparency, different motivation system, 
eliminating unfair administrative barriers to business operations, promotion of institutional 
development mechanisms and private-public sector partnership. Significant institutional progress 
must be achieved in the sectors responsible for development of human capital. Development of 
these sectors and upgrading the services they provide would require not just significant financial 
resources but – primarily – a radical increase of their operational efficiency.  
Building an advanced system of economic institutions involves taking steps to encourage 
competition on goods and services markets, to develop market infrastructure and tackle 
numerous other problems. 
The Concept points out the need to create a competitive environment - as key motivation 
for companies‘ innovation activities and increasing their efficiency by reducing barriers 
hindering market access, demonopolisation of the economy and creating fair competition 
environment. To achieve that, a system should be created to prevent (and stop) 
competition-blocking by government and businesses; to regulate natural monopolies more 
efficiently; to promote demonopolisation and encourage competition in the sectors where natural 
resources are limited (in particular biological water-based resources and underground mineral 
deposits). 
According to the Concept, major factors promoting competition include elimination of 
barriers hindering market entry– e.g. simplifying procedures for company registration including 
introduction of online registration (while putting in place safeguards against short-lived/phoney 
companies); cutting down the number of permissions entrepreneurs must obtain to start up new 
businesses; introduction of notification procedures to declare companies‘ conformity with 
appropriate requirements instead of obtaining permissions; replacing licencing with compulsory 
liability insurance, financial guaranties or monitoring by self-regulating organisations for certain 
types of activities. 
An important government responsibility is to provide fair and equal protection of real 
84 
 
of economic actors), which translates into a low level of compliance with 
legislation and tolerance of that situation by the authorities, businesses and 
general public – i.e. into legal nihilism. This state of affairs makes development 
of new institutions much harder, including the ones which are necessary to 
promote innovations-based economy. A targeted campaign against legal nihilism 
is required, part of which should be  adoption of better-quality laws and more 
efficient enforcement of them. 
3.2. Increasing national competitiveness 
Increasing national competitiveness is a complex task whose success depends on 
development of human capital and economic institutions; use (and further growth) of Russia‘s 
existing advantages in power generation and natural resources industries and transport 
infrastructure; creation of new competitive advantages through diversification of the economy; 
development of powerful S&T complex and knowledge-based economy. 
Along with priority development of human capital and service-based economy, a major 
sector for implementation of knowledge, employment and wealth creation during the next 10-15 
years will be basic manufacturing, transport, construction and agricultural industries. That‘s 
where Russia has significant competitive advantages; however, these areas have also 
accumulated the highest barriers to growth and the worst efficiency failures. Radical 
technological upgrade of all basic industries, through implementation of advanced information, 
nano- and biotechnologies, is crucial condition of success of the country‘s innovation-based 
socially oriented development in highly competitive global environment. 
At this stage high-tech industrial and service-sector projects cannot make a significant 
contribution to GDP growth, due to the low development of these sectors and insufficient 
competitiveness of their products. 
All mechanical engineering companies combined currently create about 3% of the 
country‘s GDP, while the oil and gas sector and raw materials industries generate about 28-30% 
of the GDP. 
In 2014 - 2017 research-intensive and knowledge-based industries‘ products‘ contribution 
to the GDP growth rate may equal those of traditional industries‘ and exceed the oil and gas 
complex. By 2020 the oil and gas complex‘s share of the GDP will decrease to 10 – 12% (from 
18,7% in 2007), while the contribution by high-tech industries and knowledge-based economy 
will increase to 17 – 19% (from 10,9% in 2007). 
86 
 
and on government support to systemic breakthrough projects, primarily in the framework of 
private-public sector partnership. 
The required changes in the structure of the industrial sector will only happen in a 
situation of increased competition, innovative business operations and emergence of both a 
powerful segment of small and medium enterprises and large Russian companies playing a 
significant role on international markets.  
3.3.Development of science, national innovation system and technology 
Switching the national economy to innovation-based development won‘t be possible 
without creating a globally competitive innovation system comprising a number of 
interconnected organisations (structures) engaged in production and/or commercialisation of 
knowledge and technologies, and a set of legal, financial and social institutions which would 
ensure interaction of educational, R&D, entrepreneurial and non-profit organisations and 
structures in all sectors of the economy and all spheres of social life. To establish an efficient 
national innovation system, the following steps must be taken: 
 promote demand for innovations by the majority of industries; currently 
innovation activity is limited to a small number of sectors while technological 
modernisation of production facilities is based mostly on imported technologies rather 
than Russian designs; 
 increase efficiency of the knowledge generating sector (basic and applied 
research); currently the sector is gradually losing the edge gained in the preceding period, 
due to ageing of personnel, deteriorating level of research, insufficient integration in the 
world research community and global innovations market, lack of orientation towards the 
economy‘s demand; 
 overcome fragmentary nature of the existing innovation infrastructure; many 
of its components is already in place but don‘t provide support to innovation process 
throughout all its stages – generation, commercialisation and implementation of 
innovations. 
National innovation and technology development support system should be created, to 
undertake major technological upgrade of production facilities on the basis of advanced R&D 
results; create a competitive national R&D sector which would enable switching the economy to 
innovation-based development; promote innovation behaviour among enterprises and the general 
population; support creation and dissemination of innovations in all industries. This would allow 
88 
 
 development of competitive environment, primarily to encourage 
competition in technology and innovation creation; 
 promotion of investments in upgrading technological basis, the level of R&D 
activities and commercialisation of their results, capitalisation of intellectual property – 
with the help of government budget subsidies, tax breaks and other motivation tools; 
 creating conditions for efficient market evaluation of accumulated and newly 
developed intellectual property and its applications, to increase capitalisation of 
companies, simplify intangible assets‘ turnover, involve intellectual property created at 
public cost in economic activities; 
 supporting creation and development of small and medium-sized innovative 
companies, among other things by reducing administrative barriers to establishing and 
developing innovative companies and adopting a legal requirement to place a portion of 
government orders for R&D work with small and medium-sized innovative companies; 
 creating a favourable environment for development of new high-tech sectors, 
among other things by improving regulation of appropriate products and services markets, 
optimising existing tools for supporting innovation activities in specific highly promising 
sectors; 
 providing additional motivation for innovation-based development in the 
public sector and among the natural monopolies, by increasing innovative orientation of 
government procurement system; introducing specific requirements to natural 
monopolies and large public sector companies to prepare and adopt innovation-based 
development programmes; develop and implement technology road maps; specify 
requirements to natural monopolies and large public sector companies to implement 
advanced technologies to increase the level of their technological contribution in 
promotion of power efficiency. 
Development of basic research, increasing efficiency of the R&D sector involves the 
following: 
 increasing competitiveness of R&D results, effectiveness and efficiency of 
public expenditures on support and development of R&D, among other things by: 
- identifying and adjusting priority R&D areas in line with long-term forecasts of S&T 
development; 
90 
 
personal grants to young researchers; increasing their remuneration; provision of 
government subsidies to young researchers employed by R&D, engineering, design and 
other high-tech companies to help pay their mortgages; grants, loans and venture funding 
to implement own R&D results); 
 reforming remuneration system in the R&D and education sphere, to tie 
compensation to results and quality of work; introducing new forms of funding basic 
research (project-based funding, grants etc.); 
 promoting better-quality management of R&D organisations, to implement 
innovative projects and encourage efficient interaction with business; 
 promoting wider and speedier implementation of Russian R&D results into 
the economy, among other things by developing tools for transferring R&D results 
between civilian and military spheres. 
Development of innovation infrastructure involves taking the following steps: 
 radically increasing efficiency of existing innovation infrastructure (in 
particular special economic zones, technology transfer centres; business incubators, 
science parks etc.); 
 developing financial innovation infrastructure; creating a system to provide 
support to innovation activities through development institutions (state corporation 
Development and Foreign Economic Activity Banks (Vnesheconombank); Russian 
Venture Company, Inc., Russian Nanotechnology Corporation, etc.; 
 creating direct investment funds, with government participation, to increase 
capitalisation of high-tech companies; development of venture funding; creation of public 
or private-public foundations to finance innovative businesses at various stages of their 
development; 
 active promotion of technical regulation as a major tool to encourage 
innovation-based development, by modernising obsolete procedures and standards 
hindering expansion of companies‘ innovation activities; consistent and predictable in the 
long term introduction of stricter requirements to efficiency of companies‘ use of natural 
resources, safety of their products (services) to environment and people‘s health, energy 
and materials saving; introduction of relevant motivation and sanctions for failure to meet 
such requirements; harmonisation of Russian standards with international ones, primarily 
in the areas with a potential to increase innovative products exports; 
92 
 
 adoption and implementation of a programme to support exports of high-tech 
products, services and technologies; 
 developing a mechanism to support emergence and capitalisation of Russian 
high-tech brands and to reimburse foreign patenting and intellectual property protection 
costs; increasing Russian embassies‘ and trade representatives‘ role in this area of foreign 
economic activities; and paying more attention to it in the framework of  
intergovernmental commissions for economic cooperation; 
 promoting acquisition of foreign assets – technology donors and training 
centres, including engineering and design companies; 
 development and promotion of academic exchange programmes, fellowships 
for Russian students and teachers abroad and foreign ones in Russia; encouraging 
scientists of international reputation to come to Russia for teaching; 
 involving Russian researchers who have moved abroad into development of 
Russian S&T sphere, among other things by offering remuneration to recruit them into 
Russian R&D projects and teaching positions. 
Priority areas for basic and applied research and development, including development of 
technologies, must be identified and adjusted regularly, on the basis of long-term technological 
development forecasts. Such priority areas must be coordinated with increasing competitiveness 
of the Russian economy and national security considerations, to shape the technological image of 
the Russian economy determining its competitive advantages in relation to the leading countries 
of the world. Development of these priority areas will be promoted by providing top-level 
support to appropriate basic and applied research and through implementation of two kinds of 
strategic innovative projects. 
The first type is oriented towards advanced development of S&T potential, to ensure 
Russia‘s global competitiveness in highly important technological areas. Until 2020, national 
competitiveness and national security will primarily depend on the progress in development of 
information and communication technologies (ICT), nanotechnologies, new materials and live 
systems. The most important results are expected to be discovered at junctions of the above areas, 
in interdisciplinary areas. 
The second group of projects are aimed at technological upgrade of priority industries 
and development of specific breakthrough technologies. Priority technological development 
areas included in the list of critical technologies and supported by valid federal targeted 
94 
 
 supporting acquisition of foreign high-tech companies by Russian companies 
operating in technology areas crucial to national security, among other things by 
providing organisational and political support; 
 using development institutions‘ potential to accelerate consolidation in 
high-tech sectors of the economy, to promote emergence of companies – world-level 
technology leaders. 
 
3.4. Development of high-technology industries 
A number of high-tech sectors have developed (including aerospace, shipbuilding, radio 
electronics, nuclear energy, power machine building, ICT) where Russia has significant 
competitive edge or expects to get one in the medium term. Several strategies have been 
prepared to develop these sectors further, as well as long-term federal programmes and 
integrated sets of measures supported by adequate financial and organisational resources. The 
above sectors operate in the highly competitive global environment. It won‘t be possible to 
upgrade them without attracting strategic foreign partners, foreign technologies and 
competencies; at the same time Russia‘s ambition regarding these sectors is to establish 
independent national companies which would become serious players not just on domestic but 
on international markets. 
3.4.1. Aircraft  construction and propulsion engineering 
The goal of national aircraft  construction and propulsion engineering policy is to create 
a highly competitive aircraft construction industry, return to the global market as the third largest 
civil aircraft manufacturer in the world and secure 10 – 15% of global civil aircraft sales by 2020 
– 2025. 
Priority development areas for aircraft construction industry include the following: 
The first priority is to create a range of promising aircraft models and engines, 
including: 
 market promotion of improved models (Tu-204, Tu-214, Il-96 etc.) which 
boast a competitive edge; 
 implement projects to develop transitional products – SSJ-100 regional 
airliner and the upgraded Tu-204SM; 
96 
 
industry‘s output will grow by 2010 by 1,32 times compared with 2007, and by 1,8 times by 
2015. Russian rocket and spacecraft products market share will increase from 8% to 15%. 
Government policy in this area has the following priority areas: 
The first area  is to develop new-generation spacecraft complexes and systems whose 
characteristics would ensure high competitiveness on international markets. In particular: 
 upgrading existing orbital ejection vehicles and developing new-generation 
ones (modernisation of current carrier rockets and development of new rockets, boosters 
and launchers; development of medium-class carrier rocket to launch new-generation 
manned spacecraft); space satellites with longer life cycle; 
 laying groundwork for breakthrough spacecraft technologies development and space 
exploration projects. 
The second area is to complete deployment of and further develop GLONASS system, 
in particular: 
- deployment and support of a stable group of GLONASS satellites; development of 
new-generation spacecraft with longer active life cycle (at least 10 years) and improved technical 
characteristics;; 
- upgrading ground-based control and tracking complex; launching mass production and 
market promotion of end-user navigation systems; 
- promotion of international cooperation in the satellite navigation area; ensuring 
compatibility and complementarity between GLONASS and other promising global satellite 
navigation systems and their additional components. 
The third area is development of satellite fleet, including deployment of a group of 
communication satellites to ensure more active use of all communication channels – fixed lines, 
mobile, personal – throughout the RF territory; deployment of a group of meteorological and 
mapping satellites capable of real-time data transmission. 
The fourth area is to increase Russia‘s share of the global space market, including: 
 maintaining leading positions on traditional space services markets (up to 
30% of the commercial launches market); 
 increasing the share of commercial spacecraft market; active expansion on 
international spacecraft components and technologies markets; 
98 
 
The first area is creating specialised competitive vessels, including ships and other craft 
for development of continental shelf and the Northern Sea Route; development of high-tech 
medium-tonnage (up to 45,000 tonnes displacement) cargo and support ships, high-tech fishing 
ships, sea and river research and expedition vessels. 
The second area  is implementing institutional reform in the industry, creating an 
associated shipbuilding corporation, integrated structures to manufacture marine equipment, 
development of sea and river vessel leasing. 
The third area is implementing programmes to support technological upgrade and 
promote marketing of the industry‘s products, including: 
 promotion of technological upgrading of leading industrial enterprises, by 
applying the most advanced technologies; 
 establishing new R&D and production facilities; 
 encouraging establishment and development of leasing companies. 
Radio electronics industry 
The goal of national radio electronics industry policy is to upgrade technological level of 
Russian radio electronics industry to match the world level, and increase its products‘ 
competitiveness on domestic and international markets. 
Total sales of radio electronic products will grow by 2011 by 2,2 times compared with the 
2008 level, and by 2015 - 5,2 times. By 2011 mass-produced microelectronics products will 
achieve technological level of 0,13 - 0,09 micrometres, and by 2015 - 0,045 micrometres. 
Priority areas for development of radio electronics industry include the following: 
The first area  is to develop an advanced S&T and production potential, including: 
 advanced production potential to manufacture radiation-resistant electronic 
components, super-high-frequency electronics, microelectronics, electronic materials and 
structures, microsystems hardware; 
 development of market-oriented infrastructure for radio electronics industry, 
talking into account restructuring of electronic products‘ design and production systems 
(systems-oriented design centres, ―silicon factories‖, microsystems S&T centres etc.); 
The second area is to lay S&T groundwork for developing promising technologies and 
electronic components, standardised radio electronic modules to supply Russian companies and 
100 
 
 extending the period of safe exploitation of existing power generating units, 
prolonging safe design life for newly designed units; 
 development of efficient infrastructure for managing exhausted nuclear fuel 
and radioactive waste. 
The second area is promoting Russian nuclear power industry‘s integration into the 
global economy, in terms of fuel cycle and equipment production. In particular: 
 promoting higher competitiveness of Russian nuclear power plant designs; 
 development of natural resources basis, in particular uranium deposits in 
Russia and abroad, to meet demand  by Russian nuclear power industry; 
 promoting cooperation with foreign countries in the fuel cycle area; 
 establishing international nuclear fuel cycle service centres in Russia, 
including enrichment under International Atomic Energy Agency supervision, to provide 
developing countries with non-discriminatory access to nuclear power without violating 
the non-proliferation regime. 
The third area is to secure for Russia global leadership in the nuclear power generation 
technologies area, among other things by: 
 promoting closed fuel cycle research and development (fast neutron reactors, 
fabrication and recycling of new nuclear fuel types); supporting promising 
high-temperature reactors research; 
 promoting development of new ways to utilise atomic nuclear energy; 
 efficient participation in promising international nuclear energy exploitation 
projects (ITER, INPRO etc.); 
 promoting advanced development of related industries such as power 
machine building, transport, automation, information services, health, nanotechnology; 
 ensuring sustainable development of nuclear power industry‘s personnel and 
research basis. 
The fourth area is development of organisational structures to maximise competitive 
edge of Russian nuclear power generation and power machine building industries on 
international markets. 
3.4.4. Information and communication technologies 
102 
 
 introduction of a unified coordinate-temporal and navigation support; 
 development and implementation of Russian Federal Spatial Data 
infrastructure; 
 extending individuals‘ and companies‘ access to advanced ICT services. 
The second area is improving the quality of education, medical services, social 
protection, promoting development of culture and mass media through use of ICT, among other 
things by: 
 promoting educational institutions, museums, hospitals, libraries and other 
socially important organisations to connect to the Internet; 
 promoting more active use of ICT to develop new teaching forms and 
techniques including distant learning and media learning, developing lifelong ICT 
vocational training system, particularly for civil servants; 
 provision of social services throughout the Russian territory with the help of 
ICT; 
 development of library foundations system, including B.N. Yeltsin 
Presidential Library, through active use of ICT. 
The third area is to promote competitiveness and further development of ICT, among 
other things by: 
 promoting active use of ICT by organisations and individuals; 
 creating favourable environment for development of competitive ICT 
industry; 
 developing venture funding mechanisms in the ICT area; 
 establishing high-technology science parks; 
 improving legislation and law enforcement practices in the area of ICT 
application; 
 making ICT industry more attractive to potential investors; 
 promoting export of ICT products and services; 
 creating a favourable environment for development of e-Commerce 
companies; 
104 
 
 improving existing mechanisms for leasing technological equipment to 
upgrade production facilities, including mechanisms to provide government support to 
cover some of the leasing costs; 
 promoting financial development institutions‘ participation in investment 
projects to set up new production facilities; 
 creating a favourable environment for investing into capital assets‘ and 
technology upgrade by improving depreciation policy, including implementation of 
accelerated depreciation mechanisms; 
 introducing tax breaks and benefits as priority industrial policy tools; 
 encouraging projects aimed at implementation of innovative R&D results, 
resource- and energy-saving technologies, technological upgrade of enterprises; 
 promoting development of innovative competitive products as part of the 
work aimed at increasing power efficiency of the Russian economy; 
 providing government support to R&D aimed at development of basic and 
breakthrough technologies matching market demand and in line with industrial 
development strategies; 
 developing private-public sector partnership mechanisms, including 
development and implementation of major innovative projects; 
 developing staff training, retraining and upgrading system to provide 
workforce for high-tech industries; 
 supporting export of Russian industrial products, among other things by 
subsidising credit interest rates and providing guaranties against risks associated with 
export operations, including regular updates of the list of countries exporting Russian 
industrial products to gives the right to receive government support and guaranties; 
 further development of technical regulation system. 
3.6. Reforming natural monopolies 
There are two major objectives regarding natural monopolies reform. 
The first one is to reduce the degree of infrastructures‘ monopolisation and separating 
naturally monopolistic sectors from potentially competitive ones. Since engineering 
infrastructure components (roads, airfields, waterfront structures, energy networks, dispatcher 
106 
 
 increasing availability and quality of transportation services for individuals; 
 increasing Russian transportation system‘s competitiveness, more efficient 
use of the country‘s transit potential; 
 increasing overall safety and reliability of the transportation system; 
 decreasing transportation system‘s negative impact on the environment. 
Long-term progress regarding accomplishment of these objectives can be measured with 
the following indicators: 
 reducing transportation intensity of the GDP (not counting pipeline 
transportation) by 2015 by 20% and by 2020 by 30% compared with 2007; 
 increasing transportation services export (not counting pipeline 
transportation)  to US $23,4 billion by 2015 and US $41 billion by 2020, compared with 
US $10,3 billion in 2007; 
 reducing the share of limited traffic capacity railroad sections to 0,5% by 
2015, 
 significantly increasing construction of new railways; creating basic 
passenger railway network where trains would move at 160-200 km/h by 2020; building 
high-speed railways for trains to move at up to 350 km/h; 
 increasing the share of federal highway network meeting relevant national 
standards to 48,6% of the total length of Russian road network by 2015 and 52,5% by 
2020;  increasing overall road construction (including federal, regional and local roads) 
by 2020 by 3,2 times (to 8 thousand kilometres a year) compared with 2007; 
 increasing seaports cargo turnover from 451 million tonnes in 2007 to 774 
million tonnes by 2015 and 885 million tonnes by 2020; 
 increasing Russian airspace traffic capacity by 1,8 times by 2015. 
Priority areas for development of the transportation system to meet the above targets 
include the following: 
The first area is to increase capacity of the basic transportation network, eliminate gaps 
and bottlenecks (including the Asian section of the RF territory), among other things by: 
 implementing high-tech projects to develop transportation lines and nodes 
making the backbone of inter-regional traffic, in particular in Tatarstan, Krasnoyarsk, 
108 
 
 development of railway and highway checkpoint systems, establishing large 
logistics centres at the borders (dry ports); 
 implementing joint public-private projects to develop transport infrastructure, 
primarily concession-based, to promote private sector investments in the transport 
industry; 
 eliminating gaps and bottlenecks at major international transport corridors 
and their side-lines (providing opportunities to bypass large cities and neighbouring 
countries‘ territories, building unique bridges, developing access ways to biggest 
transport nodes, sea and river ports, airports, checkpoints and terminals); 
 preparing railroad infrastructure including power and communication lines 
etc. to support cargo trains with increased axial load of up to 25-30 ton-forces/axis, 
depending on the cargo, in major railroad yards for increased-weight trains; 
 development of trans-shipment ports within international transport corridors, 
in particular upgrading Murmansk and Archangel seaport, St. Petersburg, Primorsk, 
Ust-Luga, Baltiysk ports (Baltic basin), Novorossiysk, Tuapse, Taman, Caucasus ports 
(Azov and Black Sea basin), Olia, Makhachkala ports (Caspian basin) and Vostochnyi, 
Vanino ports (Far-Eastern basin); 
 creating a favourable environment for growth of Russian transportation 
system‘s competitiveness, including reduced delivery times and transportation costs; 
 reducing risks, tracking cargo movement throughout the shipment; 
 establishing a network of international and domestic air transport distribution 
centres (hub airports), in particular in Moscow, St. Petersburg, Yekaterinburg, 
Novosibirsk, Krasnoyarsk, Khabarovsk, Samara, Rostov on Don and Kaliningrad; 
 creating and developing special economic zones around certain ports; 
 implementing large-scale internal waterways infrastructure development 
projects, including second lines of locks on Volgo-Balt and Volgo-Don waterways and a 
low-head water-engineering system at the Volga river in Nizhniy Novgorod Region; 
 integration of Russian air navigation system into the Unified Regional 
European Air Navigation System, to facilitate introduction of advanced communication, 
navigation, monitoring and traffic control  systems. 
The third area is providing transportation support to integrated development of Siberian 
110 
 
The fifth area is to ensure overall safety and reliability of the transportation system 
including improved transport safety, navigation and hydraulic facilities safety, road traffic safety. 
The sixth area is to reduce transportation systems‘ negative impact on the environment, 
by promoting use of fuel-efficient, environmentally friendly automobiles and aircraft, 
introducing Euro 5 and Euro 6 automobiles standards, switching to higher-quality advanced 
fuels. 
Developing the country‘s economy and social sphere according to the innovation-based 
scenario requires a radical increase of investments into transportation industry; the plan is to 
increase them from 2% of the GDP in 2006 to 4-4.5% of the GDP by 2020. 
3.8. Development of power infrastructure, increasing power efficiency of the economy 
Development of the power generation complex has the following objectives: 
 speed up development of electric power infrastructure, overcome emerging 
shortage of power generating and networking capacities, upgrade the power industry‘s 
technological potential, develop a new institutional system for liberalised energy market; 
 increase the volume and efficiency of oil, gas and coal production and 
processing, boost exports and meet growing internal demand; 
 promote efficient energy saving based on structural factors, technological 
modernisation of production facilities, introduction of advanced innovative technologies 
and other energy saving techniques. 
Power intensity of the Russian economy is much higher than in the OECD countries; at 
the same time per capita power consumption also remains high, particularly in manufacturing 
and service sectors (heating, lighting etc.); 
Overall technological potential for energy saving is conservatively estimated at 350 
million tonnes of equivalent fuel, out of which: 
 about 60 million tonnes of equivalent fuel can be saved at the electric power 
production stage; 
 about 80 million tonnes of equivalent fuel can be saved by industrial energy 
consumers; 
 about 80 million tonnes of equivalent fuel can be saved in the course of 
production, transmission and distribution of thermal energy; 
112 
 
machinery with better characteristics than those established by the OECD standards. This 
would contribute to developing competitive Russian power engineering industry; 
 promoting development of technical consulting and energy audit services, 
through implementation of special projects within small business support programmes 
(business incubators, training programmes etc.); 
 providing direct government support to investment projects in power 
industry, aimed at implementation of new-generation energy-saving technologies. In 
particular, investment programmes by partially state-owned fuel and energy companies 
may be developed jointly with the government, to include the most advanced 
energy-efficient solutions; 
 eliminate by 2012 unmeasured use of energy, by installing meters at all retail 
consumers, first of all households; 
 development of automated systems for measuring electric and thermal power 
consumption at retail market; 
 providing government support to companies specialising in commercial 
measuring of electric and thermal energy consumption; a system of such organisations 
should be in place and fully operational by 2012; 
 Taking special steps to increase power efficiency of housing and communal 
services complex, including introduction of Resource Accounting and Budgeting 
procedures, adjusting concession contracts to hire specialised companies to manage 
housing and communal services complexes, introduction of new construction standards 
for efficient use of power. 
Promotion of energy saving should result in reaching by 2020 the following targets: 
 increasing power industry‘s development potential by at least 200 million 
tonnes of equivalent fuel (by 2015); 
 development of a high-tech segment of the Russian economy (innovative 
energy-related services) with turnover of at least 200 billion roubles (by 2011); 
 reducing negative impact on the environment by at least 20% (by 2015). 
Development of electrical power industry 
The goals of national electrical power industry policy include the following: 
114 
 
alternating current super- and ultrahigh tension transmission lines will promote large-scale 
development of coal fields and hydroelectric potential of Russia‘s Eastern regions. As early as in 
2009 and 2010 feasibility studies and macroeconomic analysis of implementing the above 
technique will be undertaken. To reach the development targets set for electric power industry, 
the following objectives must be accomplished: 
 balanced development of electric power industry; establishing optimal, 
economically sound structure of generating and network facilities to provide reliable 
power and thermal energy supply to domestic consumers; 
 diversification of electric power industry‘s fuel balance, through 
development of nuclear and coal-based power generation capacities, use of hydroelectric 
potential and other sustainable energy sources, with appropriate reduction of the 
gas-generated share in the industry‘s fuel balance; 
 development of network infrastructure to give power companies a fair 
chance to enter the electric power market; strengthening  inter-systems links to promote 
electric power transmission to Russian areas experiencing power shortages; development 
of electric power exports; 
 minimising waste in electrical and thermal power networks; reducing fuel 
rates to produce electric and thermal energy by implementing advanced technologies and 
high-tech equipment; 
 phased reduction of electric power industry‘s facilities‘ impact on the 
environment, by implementing the best, most advanced environmentally neutral 
technologies in the world for building new and upgrading the existing power generation 
facilities; 
 preserving and developing the industry‘s human potential; 
 creating a national system for managing electric power industry development, 
based on combination of market and regulation mechanisms; 
 achieving a significant increase of investments in electric power industry, to 
finance large-scale construction of power generating facilities and replace obsolete 
equipment; 
 simplifying consumers‘ access to electrical networks; 
116 
 
 promoting investments in oil and gas fields development and transport 
infrastructure; 
 creating and developing new major oil and gas production centres; 
 developing shelf fields; 
 increasing power efficiency of the economy; 
 encouraging implementation of advanced oil and gas production and 
processing technologies; 
 promoting use of natural gas as engine fuel; 
 developing liquid engine fuel production out of natural gas. 
A range of major oil processing, oil and gas transportation (including liquefied natural 
gas) projects can be implemented by 2020, some of them funded by the RF Investment Fund. 
Priority development areas for oil processing industry include the following: 
 construction of new oil processing and petrochemical facilities, including at 
the terminal point of one of the pipelines on the RF territory; 
 installing deep secondary processes production capacities at certain 
refineries. 
The following depth processing targets are set for the oil processing industry: 
 by 2015 – 83%; by 2020 - 87%; 
light oil production:: 
 by 2015 - 64,1%; by 2020 - 67,4%. 
Objectives in the oil trunk pipeline construction area include the following: 
 completion of the Eastern Siberia – Pacific Coast project, possibly with a side-line to 
China;  
 completion of Burgos – Alexandropoulos pipeline; 
 construction of Baltic Pipeline System 2 (BPS-2); 
 extension of Caspian Pipeline Consortium, in line with the RF interests. 
The following steps will be taken to develop gas transportation system and liquefied 
natural gas production: 
118 
 
Part II. Taiwan’s S&T Development Policies and Priorities 
This research report provides a comprehensive view on how Taiwan‘s science and 
technology (S&T) policies are formulated and implemented by various government agencies and 
non-government organizations. Moreover, the major current S&T development programs are 
described in detail. 
 
With emphasis on research and development (R&D), supported by effective planning and 
management plus a school of well trained scientists and engineers, Taiwan has a solid 
development in the leading industries and maintains a large number of patent rights through 
innovation and dedication to success. These achievements would not be possible without 
pragmatic S&T policies at the right time to set the development strategies and to apply as the 
driving forces. 
 
In the Global Competitiveness Report 2009-2010 released by World Economic Forum 
(WEF), among the 133 economies featured in the report, Taiwan is ranked 12
th
 in overall 
performance. Taiwan has surpassed Korea to the 4
th
 position in Asia, behind Singapore, Japan, 
and Hong Kong. Taiwan is ranked 8
th
 in innovation index and 18
th
 in infrastructure. In the 2010 
IMD World Competitiveness Yearbook with 58 economies covered, Taiwan has made a dramatic 
rebound in the overall performance ranking, from 23
rd
 in 2009 to 8
th
 in 2010. Table 1-1 below 
presents Taiwan‘s IMD competitiveness rankings in the overall performance and in infrastructure 
since 2005. It shows that Taiwan has been maintaining high standard in both technological and 
scientific infrastructures. 
 
IMD Competitiveness Ranking Rank by Year 
Item 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 
Overall Performance 11 17 18 13 23 8 
Overall Infrastructure 16 18 21 17 23 17 
    Technological Infrastructure 5 4 15 5 11 5 
    Scientific Infrastructure 8 5 6 4 8 5 
Table 1-1: Taiwan‘s IMD Competitiveness Rankings (2005-2010) 
 
Professors and researchers in Taiwan‘s high education and research institutes are 
encouraged to publish papers in international journals as an important part of their academic 
credential. In the past three decades, research papers published in SCI journals by Taiwan 
scholars have increased from 537 articles in 1981 to over 24,000 in 2009. The yearly growth rate 
has consistently exceeded 12% since 1991. The average number of citations received in a SCI 
paper has been increasing since 2005 as shown in Table 1-2, indicating a continuous 
120 
 
 
Patent 
Performance 
2007 2008 
Country NUP 
Population 
(million) 
Patents/Million Rank NUP 
Population 
(million) 
Patents/million Rank 
USA 79,526 303.9 261.7  2 77,051 308.8 249.5  3 
Japan 33,354 128.3 260.0  3 33,682 127.9 263.3  2 
Germany 9,051 82.7 109.4  5 8,915 82.5 108.1  5 
Taiwan 6,128 22.7 270.0  1 6,339 22.7 279.3  1 
Korea 6,295 48.1 130.9  4 7,519 48.4 155.4  4 
Table 1-4: Patent Performance Ranked by Patents per Million Populations (2007, 2008) 
 
 For the rest of this report, the historical aspects of the S&T policy directed progress in 
Taiwan are described in chronic order in Chapter 1 to give a thorough picture on how Taiwan 
becomes what it is today. The major organizations that create and execute Taiwan‘s S&T policies 
are listed and described in Chapter 2. The recent S&T priorities and technology development are 
also explained in the chapter. The current major S&T implementation programs and their 
associated budgets are described and shown in detail in Chapter 3. 
 
1. Progression of Taiwan’s S&T Policy Development 
 
Although Taiwan had been settled by aboriginal inhabitants in the low-lying coastal 
plains for more than 30,000 years, Taiwan was placed on the world map only 400 years ago 
when the first Western ship passed by the island and the sailors on that Portuguese ship 
exclaimed ―Ilha Formosa‖ (Beautiful Island). Taiwan earned its international recognition after 
being ranked as one of the ―Four Asian Tigers‖ and referenced in positive tone as ―Taiwan 
Economic Miracle‖ by the world communities. 
 
This chapter will examine the S&T development path that Taiwan has taken from the past 
to date and describe the strategy taken and S&T policies applied at each stage. 
1.1.  Dawn of Taiwan’s S&T Development 
 
Taiwan‘s S&T research facilities were established at the dawn of the 20th century in the 
era of Japanese colony. Japan took over Taiwan from Ching dynasty of China as its new territory 
in 1895. Much effort was made to improve the economy, industry, public works and culture for 
modernizing this under-developed island which was located mostly in the semi-tropical region 
and was heavily infested with disease such as malaria. Systematic investigation and research on 
its natural resources and public health was initiated and conducted by the technocrats in the 
colonial government soon after. As the society got more under control, the investigation, 
122 
 
1.2.  Post-war Period: 1950s 
 
The now ROC government fled to Taiwan in 1949 after suffering miserable defeat in the 
civil war in China. Along with its retreat to Taiwan, the government brought with them many of 
the intellectual and business elites from China. The Japanese had built up the agricultural and 
industrial infrastructure as well as chemical, material, and food reserves on the island that 
allowed the government to jumpstart the post-war economy. With the US$4 billion in financial 
aid and soft credit provided by the US (as well as the indirect economic stimulus of US food and 
military aid) over the 1951-1965 period, Taiwan had the necessary capital to restart its economy. 
 
Taiwan worked toward a new academic and S&T R&D environment in the 1950s during 
rapid global industrial development amidst post-war economic recovery. At that time, Taiwan‘s 
median national income was only US$173. Academia Sinica was restored to conduct R&D in 
basic sciences and new institutes were inaugurated in Taiwan. In formulation of S&T policy, the 
Executive Yuan approved in 1950 the Guideline for Long-term National Scientific Development 
Plan. The Long-term National Scientific Development Committee was inaugurated in the same 
year as the competent authority for Taiwan‘s S&T development and was responsible for 
promotion of scientific development. 
 
    At the time, Taiwan‘s S&T development was primarily focused on livelihood demand such 
as production increase in farm products. The source of technology was the available agricultural 
production techniques and products acquired from overseas.  
1.3.  Emerging Period: 1960s 
     
The economic development strategy in the 1960s was to introduce technology, promote 
labor-intensive industry and build an export-oriented industry. Industrial development was 
therefore mainly focused on various light industries, the textile industry and emerging new 
industry such as cement. The annual economic growth in the 1960s exceeded 9.5% and the 
median national income doubled and then tripled, compared to the 1950s.  The focus of 
economic development gradually shifted from an agricultural economy toward industrialization. 
In preparation to face the ending of U.S. aid, at the end of 1959, the government designed 
a strategy to attract foreign companies and foreign capitals and implemented a 19-point program 
of Economic and Financial Reform to liberalize market controls and stimulate exports. In 1964, 
General Instruments pioneered in externalizing electronic assembly in Taiwan. Japanese 
companies moved in to benefit from low labor salaries, the lack of environmental laws and 
controls, a well educated and capable workforce, and the support of the government. 
Subsequently, the first export processing park was created in Kaohsiung in December 1966. 
Within three years, the investment made to the park reached US$25 million, exceeding its 
124 
 
 
At that time Taiwan was facing ever rising demand for industrial technology and 
improvement of the S&T R&D environment. The Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) 
was founded in 1973. The Hsinchu Science Park was commissioned for business development in 
1979. Both had played important roles in Taiwan‘s high technology (high-tech) development and 
industrial upgrade in the coming decade.  The National Science Council also established the 
Precision Instrument Development Center and the Science and Technology Information Center, 
which turned into STPI today, to fortify information and instrument service. In addition, the 
inauguration of the Asia Vegetable Research and Development Center and the Taiwan Vegetation 
Protection Center also laid a solid foundation for Taiwan‘s international position in the 
advancement in agricultural technology. 
 
The First National Science and Technology Conference was held in 1978 in order 
to incorporate S&T into the planning procedure of national policies for fostering continuous 
progress of the socioeconomic system. Attendees to the meeting included experts, scholars, 
corporate leaders and responsible persons from the relevant government departments. In 1979, 
the Executive Yuan promulgated and implemented the Science and Technology Development 
Program and listed energy, materials, information and production automation as the key 
technologies in high priority for development. As a result, the Science and Technology Advisory 
Group (STAG) was established as a staff unit in Executive Yuan assisting the premier in S&T 
affairs. 
 
The key features of the S&T policy at the time included propelling the economy 
by strengthening S&T development and application, identifying new opportunities for Taiwan‘s 
economy, and proposing technology upgrade as the path for advancing S&T development and as 
the means for revitalizing the economy in the 1980s. At the same time, financial and monetary 
means had been planned to encourage S&T R&D by the private enterprises. 
1.5.  Booming Period: 1980s 
 
The 1980s saw economic lift-off in Taiwan with massive trade surplus and the 
median national income in excess of US$5,000. In response to changes in international 
competition economically and the advent of the information technology (IT), technology 
upgrade was the primary objective for S&T development and a strategy for fueling the economy. 
It was also being used to accelerate industrial upgrade, adjust the industrial structure, foster 
industrial R&D, enhance the production technology of the conventional industries, and promote 
high-tech industrial development. 
 
In 1982, Taiwan convened the second National S&T Conference and firmed up 
the objective of S&T policy as to simultaneously develop basic science, applied science and 
126 
 
 
1. Building an Asia-Pacific research depot – Make Taiwan in possession of world-reputed 
researchers and research institutions and make world-class contributions in a number of 
basic technology research fields to become an Asia-Pacific research depot.   
2. Building an Asia-Pacific high-tech production center – Raise research funding in proportion 
to the sales revenue in the production industry and enhance the quality of operators; turn 
Taiwan into an industrially developed society; develop Taiwan‘s enterprises into 
multinational corporations and foster other world-class companies to come to Taiwan to 
forge strategic alliance with local enterprises; and turn Taiwan into an Asia-Pacific 
technology manufacturing center.  
3. Building a technologically advanced society - Set up core science parks in appropriate 
localities with government or privately-built intelligent industrial parks and other satellite 
science parks around each core science park and attract relevant industries to its vicinity. 
This would accelerate formation of high-tech industrial clusters. With each core science 
park as the base in combination with the urban and rural development and community 
culture, a modern science city in the area can be constructed and realized. 
 
In 1999, the government enacted the Fundamental Science and Technology Act to set 
guidelines and principles for the promotion of scientific and technological development. 
According to Article 9 of this Act, the government shall present a written statement once every 
two years describing the visions, strategies, and current status of S&T development and, 
according to Article 10, the government shall also formulate a National Science and Technology 
Development Plan once every four years. After the enactment of the Fundamental Science and 
Technology Act, the Executive Yuan has successively published the National Science and 
Technology Development Plan (2001–2004), the White Paper on Science and Technology 
(2003–2006), the National Science and Technology Development Plan (2005–2008), the White 
Paper on Science and Technology (2007–2010), and the National Science and Technology 
Development Plan (2009–2012), each laying out the current status, visions and strategies of S&T 
development to guide the promotion of S&T development in Taiwan. (NSC, 2007) 
1.7.  Challenges in the 2000s 
 
In the wake of 2000s, Taiwan had the first transition of government power to a 
different political party since 1945. The new government emphasized again the concept of 
developing Taiwan into a green silicon island hosting global high-tech manufacturing centers and 
service centers. The ambition had turned global rather than limiting to the Asian-Pacific region 
as originally formulated in mid 1990s. The substance of the plan included introducing new 
technology products, improving hardware and software capabilities, and developing computer, 
semi-conductor and broadband communication technologies and industries on top of the current 
technology basis. In 2001, Taiwan government adopted the Knowledge Economy Development 
128 
 
green energy, culture and creation, and high-end agriculture. The goal was to upgrade 
industrial competitiveness and break the difficulties facing the export situations at a 
time when the global economy performed so poorly. The Executive Yuan mapped out 
concrete strategies for product diversification, product branding, and the acquisition of 
key technologies, and carried out the planned input of government resources so as to 
attract and funnel private investment. 
Presently, Taiwan‘s expenditure on S&T development has already reached 2.77% 
of its GDP and the ratio of R&D expenditure by the private sector and the government is 71:29 
(National Science Council, 2010). Taiwan‘s electronics and information industry had secured a 
sizable international market. Its information industrial output value in 2008 had reached US$ 
110 .25 billion. Among the industries, that are ranked number one in the world, include notebook 
PC, mother board, and monitor industry. The IC output value had reached US$41.56 billion in 
2008. In semiconductor dedicated foundry industry and semiconductor assembly and testing 
industry, the output value of each is also ranked number one in the world, representing 70% and 
50% of the global output value, respectively (Institute for Information Industry, 2009). 
 
Taiwan government will steadily increase its spending on R&D and also induce the 
private sector to devote greater inputs into R&D, in the hopes that gross domestic expenditure on 
R&D as a percentage of GDP will continue to grow toward the already defined target of 3%. The 
nation also hopes that the manufacturing industry‘s expenditure on R&D as a percentage of sales 
will reach 2.5%. In order to strengthen ties between scientific R&D and industrial innovation, 
enterprise-financed R&D expenditure in the higher education sector will reach 9.1% by 2009 so 
as to apply academic R&D capabilities to industries. Since an R&D workforce is central to the 
S&T development, in this regard, Taiwan has enjoyed an upward trend over the past five years 
and aimed to increase the number of researchers per 1,000 employed persons to 10.9 
person-years (including Ph.D. students engaged in R&D). (NSC, 2007) 
 
Basically, from here on, a mature framework of national S&T innovation system is put 
to work as depicted in the Figure 1-1 below: 
130 
 
2.  The Building Blocks of Taiwan’s S&T Policies 
 
A technology policy comprises three elements: the development institutions, formative 
processes, and implementation strategies. It is established by a country for the purpose of 
strengthening its technological potential, attaining its overall development goals, and enhancing 
its national status. A formative process or mechanism of a country's technology policy 
encompasses agenda-setting, policy selection and approval, policy planning, policy 
legitimization, policy implementation, and post evaluation and assessment. Consequently, a 
technology development institutional system, including promotional units, implementing units, 
and planning and assessment system, is needed to provide efficient support. 
2.1.  Institutional System for Technology Development 
 
Taiwan's institutional system for technology development consists of the three major 
components, namely the promoting organizations, implementing organizations, and planning and 
assessment system, which are described in the following sub-sections. 
 
2.1.1.  Promoting Organizations  
 
The National Science Council (NSC) and the Science and Technology Advisory Group 
(STAG), both under the Executive Yuan, are the main S&T promoting organizations in Taiwan. 
Other promoting organizations consist of chiefly government agencies that are involved in S&T 
R&D matters and applications. These include the Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Education, 
Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA), Ministry of Transportation and Communications, 
Atomic Energy Council, Council of Agriculture, Council of Labor Affairs, Department of Health, 
and Environmental Protection Administration. The two key promoting organizations, NSC and 
STAG, are explained in further detail below.  
 
2.1.1.1.  National Science Council 
 
The NSC was reorganized and placed under the Executive Yuan in 1969 and assumed 
responsibility for the development of the science-based industrial parks starting in 1982. The 
NSC‘s primary mission as posted on its website in English shows: 
 
1. Promotion of National Sci-tech Development 
 Planning and Coordination of National Sci-tech Affairs  
 Formulation of Mid- and Long-term Sci-tech Plans  
132 
 
The tasks performed by the STAG since its establishment concentrated on making 
suggestions on national S&T development policy and planning, sponsoring and organizing board 
meetings and various strategic review board meetings, steering the promotion of S&T 
development programs or projects designated by the cabinet, collecting important S&T 
development information and providing consultations and other matters relevant to S&T 
assigned by the premier. The STAG does not directly implement projects. Rather, it coordinates 
different government agencies, industries, research institutes, and academia to implement those 
projects. 
 
2.1.2.  Implementing Organizations 
 
The main implementing organizations for the S&T research of the basic and pioneering 
applications are Academia Sinica and various domestic universities. The chief implementing 
organizations for applications research and technology development are nonprofit research 
organizations, most notably the Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI). Implementing 
organizations for product development and R&D commercialization consist of mainly public and 
private enterprises. The Figure 2-1 depicts the roles played by the R&D implementing 
organizations in relation to the research types. 
 
Figure 2-1: Research Types among R&D Implementing Organizations  
 
 
2.1.3. Planning and Assessment System 
To make the effective use of limited resources in the S&T development, apart from the 
government's drafting of development policies and key performance indicators, the most 
134 
 
 
Figure 2-3: Taiwan's S&T Policy Formation 
 
Some of the historical perspectives depicted in the Figure 2-3 above have been explained 
in chapter 1. The following sub-sections describe the current S&T policy formation in further 
detail. 
2.2.1  National Science and Technology Conference 
 
The government regularly convenes the National Science and Technology Conference in 
order to perform overall planning of the country's S&T development and provide specific 
recommendations concerning Taiwan's current state of S&T development, challenges, and vision 
for the future. The conference is held once every four years since its inception in 1978 as 
136 
 
to bring back economic prosperity. 
 
2.2.3.  Strategy Review Board Meeting for Industry Technology 
 
To accelerate the development of ICT industry in Taiwan, the Executive Yuan started a 
Strategy Review Board (SRB) Meeting on Electronics, Information, and Communications in 
1992. A similar meeting of similar nature for Biotechnology was started in 1997. These two 
meetings in 2002 were integrated and expanded in its industrial scope to become the Strategy 
Review Board Meeting for Industry Technology. These meetings provide inputs from various 
industrial experts and executives for STAG to formulate policy recommendations to promote 
technology development for Taiwan‘s industry. The 2009 meeting was held in August and aimed 
specifically in information security industry. 
 
2.2.4.  Science and Technology Meeting of the Executive Yuan 
 
The Executive Yuan held the first Science and Technology Meeting in June 1998. This is 
Taiwan's highest S&T decision-making conference chaired by the Premier and attended by the 
Chief Technology Advisor, the Minister without Portfolio in charge of S&T, Minister of NSC, 
Minister of Education, Minister of Economic Affairs and other high-level officials from various 
S&T departments in the Executive branch. In principle, it is held once every three months. The 
subjects to be discussed in the meeting include important issues concerning the promotion of 
Taiwan into a S&T nation organized by NSC, government ministries and departments, and the 
technology advisors. 
 
2.2.5.  Biotechnology Industry Strategy Consultative Committee Conference 
 
To promote Taiwan's biotech industry and boost the required R&D capabilities, the 
Executive Yuan held the Biotechnology Industry Strategy Consultative Committee Conference 
for the first time in 1997. This conference was merged into the Strategy Review Board Meeting 
on Industry Technology in 2002. Yet in 2004 it was decided to have separate meeting to discuss 
biotechnology issues alone. The conference was thus resumed in 2005. The mission of this 
conference is to perform an overall assessment of the domestic biotech industry's development 
directions, provide recommendations, and guide the formation of international alliances. The 
2009 conference focused on how to nurture an excellent development environment for 
biotechnology industry in the following three areas: agricultural biotechnology, medical 
equipment, and biotechnology and pharmaceuticals. 
138 
 
5. Nurturing innovative enterprises; fostering emerging industries. 
6. Improving citizens‘ wellbeing; raising the quality of life. 
7. Boosting defense S&T; promoting technology transfers from the military to civilian. 
 
2.3.2.  Major Technology Development 
  
To map out the development of advanced industries for high-tech living, a resolution was 
passed at the Executive Yuan S&T Meeting in March 2006 to devote US$ 1 billion (NT$32 
billion) from 2006 through 2010 to the development of six major industries: soft electronics, 
radio frequency identification (RFID) systems, nanoscience and nanotechnology, intelligent 
robotics, intelligent vehicles, and intelligent living space. These technologies will create more 
comfortable and intelligent living environments for all citizens, ultimately boosting Taiwan‘s 
technological advantages and competitiveness. 
  
To promote Taiwan‘s next star industries, the Executive Yuan convened the 2006 
―BioTaiwan Committee Meeting‖ in October 2006 and selected three priority fields for 
development: agricultural biotechnology, medical equipment, and biotech pharmaceuticals. 
These industries will build Taiwan into a ―major base for genomic medicine research‖ and 
―center of clinical research‖ for the Asia region. 
2.3.2.1.  Soft electronic 
 
Soft electronics is generally known as a technology for using non-crystal silicon, low 
temperature multi-crystal silicon and organic semi-conductor material to produce thin plastic 
sheet or flexible conformal components and materials on the substrate of metallic thin sheet. The 
main products are the smart tag and flexible display. With the characteristics of low cost, 
convenience, light, thin and durability, the soft electronics may be applied to identity 
certification, inventory management, logistics control, supermarket operations, and medical and 
healthcare systems, etc. In the future, it will provide convenient humanized, mobile, and 
personalized new technologies with potential innovative breakthrough for wide-range 
applications. 
 
The soft electronics industry is predicted to take off in 2010. Presently, Taiwan has scored 
initial success in flexible transistors and other relevant technologies of critical importance in 
designing flexible electronics products. The development of Taiwan‘s soft electronics will face 
two challenges down the road. The first one is to employ limited resources to acquire a critical 
role in technology R&D in the shortest time and the second is to integrate the well-performed 
industry and the basic industry for transforming into a higher value-added industrial 
140 
 
2.3.2.2.  Radio frequency identification 
 
RFID can be applied to security, ranging from national security to home and personal 
security, product traceability system, and supply chain management, etc. It provides unique 
identification and real-time information with read-write capability.  Presently, Taiwan has 
developed the UHF-RFID chip and its associated reading device. A RFID system was deployed 
to manage hospitals during the period of SARS break out in 2003. Taiwan government hopes to 
create one or more companies of world-class RFID application systems before 2013 and bring 
along more than two globally top ranked RFID application derived systems or products, forge 
Taiwan‘s RFID output value to top US$1.8 billion and create an anticipated effect of 10% of the 
global output value.  To realize this vision, Taiwan would proceed in promotion of the RFID 
applications in the industrial system. 
2.3.2.3.  Apply nanotechnology to daily living 
 
Nanotechnology is a technology that controls matter on an atomic and molecular scale. It 
actively utilizes the special material with chemical and biological properties exhibited in the 
nano-scale for developing innovative materials, manufacturing processes, components and 
system products. Nanotechnology has the potential to create many new materials and devices 
with a vast range of applications in medicine, electronics and energy production. It will become 
one of the core technologies of the future technology industry. Taiwan therefore should formulate 
its strategy to actively build a complete and healthy development environment for 
nanotechnology and accelerate creation of industrial performance. 
 
2.3.2.4.  Intelligent robot industry 
 
The intelligent robot is an automatic device which is capable of performing, fully or 
semi-automated, many complex tasks with seemingly human intelligence. It has extensive 
applications and will be a loyal and reliable partner for mankind in the future society. It can be a 
good assistant for housework, healthcare, living recreation and community security. The 
intelligent robot therefore will gradually merge into people‘s living quarters. Presently, Japan has 
listed the intelligent robot as one of the seven major industries and Korea has planned it as one of 
the ten major new generation growth and dynamic industries. 
 
In line with the opportunity for developing new emerging industries, Taiwan plans to 
develop creative robotic systems and intelligent robots with the objective of increasing the value 
of the manufacturing industry and enhancing output value of the service industry. 
 
142 
 
3.1.  The Development of S&T Plan and Budget 
 
This section provides information on the development of S&T plan and budget from 
management‘s perspective in Taiwan. The planning process for a government agency to initiate a 
S&T development proposal and the format of the draft S&T plan are described in detail. 
Furthermore, how different S&T plans along with their proposed budget are competing with each 
other and how they are reviewed and selected are also explained below. 
 
3.1.1.  Development of S&T plan  
  
 The full title of a S&T plan is ―Midterm Succinct Plan for S&T Development‖ which serves 
as the base for government S&T development and plan administration. Each S&T plan is 
characterized by the following five sections in the plan proposal: knowledge field, research 
method, time scale, plan content and plan type. The S&T research method defined by OECD 
includes basic research, applied research and experimental development. The time scale for a 
plan can be long-term, medium-term or yearly plan. For Taiwan, the medium-term S&T plans are 
mostly set for four years as the tenure of office for the President is four years. The plan content 
of a S&T plan can be a master plan or a detail plan, with the former setting forth overall general 
principles, while the latter on detail planning. The plan type can be a policy, program or plan. If a 
S&T plan is commissioned for execution by an external research institution, then its plan type is 
defined to be a project. The attribute of the five sections in a S&T plan is illustrated in Table 3-1 
below. 
 
Table 3-1: Five Sections of a S&T plan 
S&T Plan 
Section Knowledge 
field 
Exploration 
method 
Time scale Plan content Plan form 
Attribut
e 
S&T R&D 
Basic research 
Applied 
research 
Technology 
development 
Long-term 
Medium-term 
Yearly 
Master 
Detail 
Policy 
Program 
Plan 
Project 
 
Source: S&T Industry Information Office, STPI 
 
A plan which is drafted as defined above is considered a S&T plan as long as it is 
accepted by the NSC and compiled into the central government budget to meet the national S&T 
development requirement. In 1998, the NSC established the national S&T program with the 
144 
 
expenditure in the total departmental budget, the top five are the National Science Council 
(97.9%), Atomic Energy Commission (96.0%), Presidential Office (84.6%), Ministry of 
Economic Affairs (44.7%) and Department of Health (9.2%). 
Table 3-2: Taiwan‘s national S&T budget for 2008 
  Total budget 
in US$ 
million 
Science 
expenditure 
in US$ 
million 
Unit Percentage 
of science 
expenditure 
National 
percentage of 
science 
expenditure 
Central Government 53,109 3,100 5.80% 100.00% 
Presidential Office 386 326 84.60% 10.50% 
Ministry of the 
Interior 
4,530 19 0.40% 0.60% 
Ministry of National 
Defense 
10,922 166 1.50% 5.40% 
Ministry of 
Economic Affairs 
1,973 881 44.70% 28.40% 
Ministry of 
Transportation and 
Telecommunications 
1,904 29 1.50% 0.90% 
National Science 
Council 
1,300 1,272 97.90% 41.00% 
Atomic Energy 
Commission 
101 96 96.00% 3.10% 
Council for 
agriculture 
3,150 139 4.40% 4.50% 
Council for labor 
affairs 
1,711 11 0.60% 0.30% 
Department of 
Health 
1,654 152 9.20% 4.90% 
Environmental 
protection  
259 2 0.90% 0.10% 
Source: S&T Industry Information Office, STPI 
 
146 
 
National S&T Programs National S&T Program for Telecommunications, National S&T 
Program for Agricultural Biotechnology, National S&T Program for 
Biotechnology and Pharmaceuticals,  
National S&T Program for Digital Archives,  
National S&T Program for Genomic Medicine, National S&T Program 
for System-on-Chip,  
National S&T Program for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology,  
National S&T Program for e-Learning 
Electronics and Information Electronics Field, Information Field, Electro-optics Field 
Biotechnology and Medicine Biotechnology Field, Medical Science and Health Field, 
Pharmaceuticals Field, Food Field, Agriculture Field, Forestry Field, 
Fisheries Field, Animal Husbandry Field 
Chemistry, Materials and 
Occupational Safety 
Occupational Safety in the Field of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering 
Field, Materials Field, Textile Field 
Civil Engineering and 
Mechanics  
Civil Engineering Field, Mechanics Field, Transportation Field, 
Aerospace Field, Automation Field 
Environmental Protection 
and Resources 
Environmental Protection Field, Eco-technology and biodiversities, 
Earth Science Field, Weather Field, Ocean Science Field, Resources 
Field, Energy Resources Field, Atomic Energy Field, Disaster 
Prevention Field 
Humanities, Education and 
Services 
Science Education Field, Management and Guidance Domain, 
Provisioning of Information Services, Services Sectors, E-Business, 
Humanities and Social Sciences Field 
Infrastructure for S&T 
Development 
National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center, Instrument 
Technology Research Center, National Measurement Laboratory of 
Bureau of Standards, Metrology and Inspection, Forensic Sciences 
 
 
148 
 
an investment of US$1.48 billion from enterprises induced. The Figure 3-2 below depicts its 
investment and manpower from 2003 to 2007.  
 
 
Figure 3-2: Fund and Manpower for National S&T Program for Telecommunications 
Source: National S&T Program for Telecommunications Office 
Note: The figures for 2003 belong to the last year of Phase 1 operation. 
 
3.2.1.2.  National S&T Program for Agricultural Biotechnology 
 
This program is a large-scale interagency program jointly promoted by the National 
Science Council, the Council of Agriculture, the Industrial Development Bureau, the Department 
of Health and Academia Sinica. It is jointly formulated, integrated, and implemented by the 
National Science Council, the Council of Agriculture and Academia Sinica. The Department of 
Health has assisted with safety evaluation and control technology for food applications of 
agricultural products with transplanted gene, while the Industrial Development Bureau of the 
Ministry of Economic Affairs assisted with counseling manufacturers on research achievements 
and technology promotion. In addition, relevant fund subsidizing units have guiding groups, 
working groups, expert groups and research groups to effectively facilitate promotion of the 
program operation. 
This program primarily targets the requirement of the domestic industries for 
developing relevant technologies and resources related to local and niche agricultural 
biotechnological products. The ultimate goal is for the agricultural biotechnological industry to 
root in Taiwan and establish a sustainable development system to develop Taiwan into the R&D 
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(M
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
150 
 
 
Figure 3-3: Fund and Manpower for National S&T Program for Agricultural Biotechnology 
Source: National S&T Program for Agricultural Biotechnology Office. 
 
3.2.1.3.  National S&T Program for Biotechnology an Medicine 
 
As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry has great development potential, it is 
a high-value added and knowledge-oriented industry for special promotion by the government. 
The general objective of Phase 2 (from 2003 to 2006) of this national S&T program was to 
develop Chinese herbal medicine, new drugs and R&D of biotechnology pharmaceuticals by 
integrating all levels of the resources. This program entered its Phase 3 in January 2007 
continuing the effort made in previous phases and targeted at research of drugs for cancer, 
diabetes, cardiovascular and neurological drugs for integration of the various interagency 
pharmaceutical R&D resources and research personnel in the hope to implement the upstream 
R&D achievements to the industrial circle. The Figure 3-4 below depicts its funding and 
manpower from 2003 through 2007. 
 
 
Figure 3-4: Fund and Manpower for National S&T Program for Biotechnology and Medicine 
Source: National S&T Program for Biotechnology and Medicine Office.  
 
3.2.1.4.  National S&T Program for Digital Archives 
 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
152 
 
The primary objective of this program was to explore the hidden knowledge in human 
gene sequence to develop Taiwan‘s competitive edge in medical research so that the domestic 
biomedical industry might take root with sustained operation and turn Taiwan into a technology 
island in the genome era. The research program comprises Genomic Medicine, Bioinformatics, 
Proteomics and Structural Genomics, genomic technology ethics and ELSI. To accelerate 
transferring R&D results into the biomedical technology industry, the Liver Cancer Group, the 
Lung Cancer Group, the Infectious Diseases Group and the Highly Heritable Disease Group had 
been set up to target some specific diseases since May 2005. Moreover, the Innovative Research 
Projects continued innovative genomics basic research and explored the impact of genomic 
medical technology on ethics and ELSI. The Technology Group in Department of Health, 
Disease Control Bureau, the Chinese Medicine Committee and the Pharmaceutical Inspection 
Center had closely cooperated in active research of lung cancer, microbials genomics database, 
Chinese medicine and related genomics study and genomics medicine clinical test, and 
evaluation and examination mechanism of related products. The Technology Development 
Programs of the Ministry of Economic Affairs had focused on developing technologies with 
industrial potential and building the important infrastructure required by industrial development. 
 
Phase 1 of this program had already built a sound basic research infrastructure, 
particularly in the introduction of the interferon RNAi technology, where the Nobel Prize for 
medicine had been awarded to the inventor of this technology. Phase 2 of the program was better 
integrated and consistent across various subfields than phase 1. Two way communications on the 
planning direction and provision of research content had been carried out through direct 
participation by the various ministries and agencies and the various working group conferences. 
The National Science Council had subsidized upstream basic research programs and set up core 
facilities to provide necessary infrastructure and technical support. The Department of Health 
planed research on laws and regulations, hereditary consultancy, cancer related to national health, 
infectious diseases and built up microbials gene database and Chinese herbal medicine and 
genomics related research. The Ministry of Economic Affairs planed research on applied clinical 
genomics and proteomics technology exploration and product development planning that had 
better opportunities for industrial development. The fund and manpower for this program from 
2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-6 below. 
 
154 
 
 
Figure 3-7: Heterogeneous Giga-scale Integration for Better Life 
Source: National S&T Program for System-on-Chip Office. 
 
The primary objective of Phase 2 was to develop innovative products by integrating the 
forward-looking technologies and the talent in the global environment. Following the basic 
guideline of having wafer production as the root, system-on-chip design as the stem and better 
life for the entire society as the result, the program team thereby planed three sub-projects for 
long-term endeavor and three specific additional projects for integration to satisfy short-term 
technological requirement. The sub-projects and specific projects are identified and described 
below: 
 
(1) Innovative product oriented system integration technology 
 Heterogeneous network integration 
 E-life and digital home 
 E-health, health monitoring and life care 
(2) Forward-looking technology oriented chip integration technology 
 Advanced IP technology 
 Heterogeneous integration – CMOS/MEMS/SiP, D/A/RF 
 EDA and hardware/software co-design platform 
(3) Cultivation of advanced SoC designers and environmental construction 
 Improvement of SoC education and talent cultivation plan 
 Design of design zone and infrastructure 
 Service industry and global market 
(4) RF and Mixed Signal Circuit Design 
(5) Embedded Software 
(6) Heterogeneous integration technology 
 
The fund and manpower for this program from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 
3-8 below. 
156 
 
interdisciplinary talents for nanotechnology.  
 
The Phase 2 of this program covers the six year period from 2009 to 2014. It  mainly 
focuses on advanced research in nanoscience and nanotechnology, nano-electronics and 
optoelectronics, nano instruments R&D, energy resources and environmental technology, nano 
biotechnology, nano materials and applications of conventional industrial technology and will 
convert the research achievements into industrial competitiveness. The fund and manpower for 
this program from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-9 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-9: Fund and Manpower for National S&T Program for Nanoscience and 
Nanotechnology  
Source: National S&T Program for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology Office. 
 
3.2.1.8.  National S&T Program for e-Learning 
 
This program was commenced in January 2003 for a period of five years for the 
national e-learning development. The purpose of the program was to build an e-learning industry, 
elevate international academic position, enhance national competitiveness, improve livelihood 
and social well-being. The three sub-projects of the national e-learning program were:  
 
1. E-learning for all people: through participation by various ministries and agencies in 
national program for e-learning, the ministries, agencies, scholars, experts and 
manufacturers would jointly develop e-learning courses to serve all peoples.  
 
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
158 
 
ubiquitous network society for Taiwan with emphasis on development of ICT-enabled services, 
digital content services and network multimedia services, Taiwan has also emphasized 
technology and application development of RFID electronic tagging and wireless sensor 
networks to create the twin economic engines of service and production industries. In order to 
achieve high quality management in the development of the embedded system equipments and 
network service platforms, Taiwan has also invested resources to promote open source software 
and CMMI quality management paradigm.  
 
The vigorous development of photonic technologies and their applications becomes 
more important in the last decades. Globally, massive funds, manpower, and resources have been 
invested to develop new technologies and products. In particular, flap panel display (FPD), 
optical information, optical communication, and optical devices and components are the key 
issues of great interest. In 2007, Taiwan‘s total production value of FPD was over US$ 40.6 
billion (NT$ 1.3 trillion) and became a very important place for the manufacturing FPD. With all 
the efforts made, Taiwan‘s FPD industry should become even more competitive and lead to the 
target of "Two Trillions & Twin Stars" for the field of electro-optics. The fund and manpower for 
both the electronics field and information field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-11 
and Figure 3-12 below respectively.  
 
 
Figure 3-11: Fund and Manpower for Electronics Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI  
 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
160 
 
3.2.2  Electronics and Information 
Based on the booming development in the electronics field in recent years, Taiwan has 
scored substantial progress and achievements in semiconductor, IC design, nanotechnology, 
system-on-chip, micro electrical and mechanical devices, biomedical chip integration, computer, 
cell phone, soft electronics, solar cell, RFID and intelligent service. Undoubtedly the electronics 
field is important to Taiwan‘s national economic growth, thereby sustained policy promotion and 
funding is indispensable for maintaining national competitiveness.  
 
Taiwan‘s information field is expected to advance toward both ends of the smiling 
curve in innovative design and global logistics. On the other hand, in line with building a 
ubiquitous network society for Taiwan with emphasis on development of ICT-enabled services, 
digital content services and network multimedia services, Taiwan has also emphasized 
technology and application development of RFID electronic tagging and wireless sensor 
networks to create the twin economic engines of service and production industries. In order to 
achieve high quality management in the development of the embedded system equipments and 
network service platforms, Taiwan has also invested resources to promote open source software 
and CMMI quality management paradigm.  
 
The vigorous development of photonic technologies and their applications becomes 
more important in the last decades. Globally, massive funds, manpower, and resources have been 
invested to develop new technologies and products. In particular, flap panel display (FPD), 
optical information, optical communication, and optical devices and components are the key 
issues of great interest. In 2007, Taiwan‘s total production value of FPD was over US$ 40.6 
billion (NT$ 1.3 trillion) and became a very important place for the manufacturing FPD. With all 
the efforts made, Taiwan‘s FPD industry should become even more competitive and lead to the 
target of "Two Trillions & Twin Stars" for the field of electro-optics. The fund and manpower for 
both the electronics field and information field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 4-11 
and Figure 4-12 below respectively.  
 
162 
 
The fund and manpower for biotechnology field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 
3-13 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-13: Fund and Manpower for Biotechnology Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI  
 
Medical Science and Health Field - This research field primarily focused on major 
health issues related to cancer, infection, aging medical science and elderly health, mental 
disease and drug abuse, environmental contamination and occupational exposure from basic, 
clinical and translational medical research. Statistics on manpower for research shows signs of 
decline in 2007 due to crossover of the annual plan, but the total research fund has no significant 
reduction. The fund and manpower for this area of research from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in 
the Figure 3-14 below. 
 
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
164 
 
Food Field - The Council of Agriculture is responsible for promoting food materials 
produced by upstream agricultural, fisheries, animal husbandry industries labeled with CAS for 
quality certification and added value and, moreover, developing technology for CAS product 
application development. Important achievements include development of mass production of 
organic fruit juice and quality enhancement technology, production of red yeast healthcare food 
that does not cause accumulation of body fat and effect certification technology, technology for 
extracting tree fungus polysaccharides that can prevent and improve constipation or intestinal 
discomfort, sweet potato and taro brewing technology, emulsion and mass production technology 
for low salt pork sausage with no artificial additives, and novel and diversified processing 
technology of aquatic products. The fund and manpower for the food field from 2003 to 2007 are 
depicted in the Figure 3-16 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-16: Fund and Manpower for Food Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI  
 
Agricultural Field - Sound development of agriculture hinges on effective management 
and sustainable operation of land, water resources and other natural resources, breeding of crops 
and improvement of production, effective protective measures of quarantine, plus guidance by 
correct agricultural policies and appropriate counseling measures for farmers. The agricultural 
field encompasses an extensive area of application technology development. The fund and 
manpower for the agricultural field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-17 below. 
 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
166 
 
the so-called aquaculture, is an important industry in the coastal waters and inland ponds. The 
S&T activities include studies of specific organisms, including their biology, population 
dynamics, management, and designation of fishing equipments and global changes of 
environments. Studies of seedling propagation, captivity, processing of fishery products, food 
sanitation and biotechnology development are also conducted. The man-powers and budgets 
expenditures for fishery researches from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-19 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-19: Fund and Manpower for Fishery Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Animal Husbandry Field - Taiwan‘s total husbandry output value reached US$3.9 
billion (NT$124.7 billion) in 2007. To effectively maintain this competitive edge, active plans 
for key research areas are organized for R&D directions in 2008. One key R&D area is the 
technology for animal husbandry breeding, management and quality improvement. The second 
area consists of two sub-projects for animal protection and humanistic management. The first 
sub-project focused on production technology and species improvement of pig, dairy cow, cattle, 
goat and poultry and the second one on improvement of animal feed and pasture quality and 
R&D of testing technology. The fund and manpower for this field from 2003 to 2007 are 
depicted in the Figure 3-20. 
 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
7.00
7.50
8.00
8.50
9.00
9.50
10.00
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
168 
 
of Taiwan‘s industries and fostering economic miracles. Therefore it is an essential industry for 
economic development. The fund and manpower for the chemical engineering field from 2003 to 
2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-22 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-22: Fund and Manpower for Chemical Engineering Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Materials Field - The semiconductor and optoelectronics industries rose in the 1970s 
with high technological levels and surprisingly high output value. The required materials are the 
essential high-tech materials which are complex and critical such as certain special 
macromolecules, metal and ceramic materials. Among the essential high-tech materials, Taiwan‘s 
development of general purpose materials is comparatively early and mature, even leading the 
world in some areas. Development of the essential high-tech materials to maintain the 
self-sufficiency will greatly benefit future development of Taiwan‘s high-tech industry. The 
traditional materials chemical engineering industry is now facing competition from China and 
other developing countries following the shift to offshore production in the downstream product 
industry. It is imperative to enhance the technology of domestic materials and chemical industry. 
Confronted by international competition, Taiwan must accelerate upstream basic research, 
improve industrial environment and assist operators to swiftly debut high value-added products. 
The fund and manpower for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-23 below. 
 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
0
2
4
6
8
10
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
170 
 
Civil Engineering Field - In recent years, due to global warming, violent climate 
changes in various parts of the world and frequent natural disasters causing great loss of human 
life and properties, environmental preservation and disaster mitigation have become important 
issues. Taiwan is an island located at the junction of two continental plates which collide with 
each other and release the energy in the form of earthquake. Moreover, Taiwan is constantly hit 
by typhoon in the summer and fall as well causing landslide and flood quite often. It is therefore 
imperative to research and develop solutions for these pressing issues. Civil engineering is 
indispensable for addressing these issues. The scope of the research in this field encompasses 
structural engineering, earth engineering, hydrological engineering, engineering materials, 
communications and transportation engineering, survey, architectural urban planning and 
construction management, etc. Basic research is mainly carried out by various academic 
institutions under the National Science Council engaging in large or integrative technology 
research in collaboration with policy objectives. Furthermore, the Ministry of Transportation and 
Communications, the Public Construction Commission of the Executive Yuan and the 
Construction and Planning Agency of the Ministry of the Interior have also engaged in relevant 
research in collaboration with relevant laws and regulations of administration and operation 
implementation. The fund and manpower for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the 
Figure 3-25 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-25: Fund and Manpower for Civil Engineering Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Mechanics Field - This field encompasses diversified industrial equipment and 
technology including metal processing, precision measurement, precision machinery and process 
equipment of the emerging industry, semiconductor and nanomachinery and smart robots. It is a 
highly technological and integrative star industry for the future with high relevancy and high 
added value and plays an important role in enhancing overall economic performance in Taiwan. 
It can integrate with other relevant fields with extended applications of basic technology to 
support the industrial circle, continue to provide counseling and expand service. The fund and 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
172 
 
 
Aerospace Field – The R&D for this field can be divided into aeronautics and 
astronautics. Currently, Taiwan invests mostly in astronautics for practical reason. In terms of 
capital outlay, the aerospace may be divided into:  (1) astronautical technology development 
program promoted by the National Science Council; (2) the aeronautical industry development 
and promotion program as promoted by the Industrial Development Bureau, MOEA; (3) 
essential technology research promoted by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications 
Technology Advisory Office. Achievements of the astronautical technology development 
program include: (1) International application of weather information of Formosat-3 satellite to 
assist weather forecast; (2) earth images from Formosat-2 for environmental monitoring and 
disaster emergency support. The fund and manpower for the aerospace field from 2003 to 2007 
are depicted in the Figure 3-28 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-28: Fund and Manpower for Aerospace Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Automation Field - Agricultural products could have the possibility of being 
contaminated with international contagious diseases that government should actively take 
countermeasures in order to protect people and their properties. Therefore, Taiwan government 
has actively assisted traditional industries in strengthening the inspection of agricultural products 
and the exit and entry control of persons to the facility. To achieve afore-mentioned objectives, 
automation technology is an essential element to maintain the efficiency and accuracy. The fund 
and manpower involved in the automation field from 2003 to 2007 are shown in the Figure 3-29 
below. 
 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
0
20
40
60
80
100
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
174 
 
 
Figure 3-30: R&D Fund and Manpower for Environmental Protection Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Eco-technology and Biodiversities Field - The Executive Yuan adopted the 
Biodiversities Promotion Program in 2001 as the direction for national promotion of 
biodiversities preservation. To leave a better living environment to later generations, the Public 
Construction Commission commenced implementation of the Ecological Engineering 
Development Program in 2004. The program mainly comprised the following three areas: (1) 
Ecological engineering basic technology development plan; (2) ecological environment 
remediation technology application and promotion plan; (3) ecological engineering technological 
talents cultivation and all-people publicity plan. The fund and manpower for this field from 2003 
to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-31 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-31: Fund and Manpower for Eco-technology and Biodiversities Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Earth Sciences Field - Taiwan has greatly increased hazard mitigation and 
environmental preservation in recent years, aside from resources and energy survey in the past. 
This is mainly due to the increasing awareness that, in the past decades, severe natural disasters 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
176 
 
enhance Taiwan‘s R&D capability in the typhoon and flood modeling. The fund and manpower 
for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-33 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-33: Fund and Manpower for Weather Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Ocean Sciences Field - Most ocean-related units have maintained fairly decent 
databases for reference by the general public, yet more efforts are still needed to enhance 
software capabilities and hardware capacity. The Taiwan Ocean Research Institute of the 
National Applied Research Laboratories has been striving to build a directory of networked 
marine data. Near-shore coastal space utilization and disaster prevention work are unfolding 
actively. For example, the Harbor Research Center of the Transportation Research Institute of the 
Ministry of Transportation and Communications is developing autonomous underwater 
monitoring technology to improve the safety of underwater engineering operation. The R&D 
directions of various renewable marine energy resources, wind, waves, currents, and tides, 
remain to be determined. In recent years, the wind power applications have been well developed. 
The exploration of seabed ice crystal methane has been ongoing for a number of years. Research 
result so far indicates that marine resources will gradually replace a portion of traditional energy 
resources. Taiwan is expected to gradually realize an ocean-friendly nation. The fund and 
manpower expenditures for the ocean sciences from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-34 
below.  
 
105
110
115
120
125
130
135
7.40
7.60
7.80
8.00
8.20
8.40
8.60
8.80
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
178 
 
Energy Field - Whereas Taiwan has limited land size in a highly isolated insular area, 
very high density of population and paucity of natural resources, and 98% of the energy supply 
relying on imports, Taiwan‘s emission of carbon dioxide represents 1% of the global emission. 
Taiwan‘s policy for R&D in energy technology was planned after a complete survey of domestic 
and foreign markets for energy and pertinent technologies. The nine major areas for 
technological R&D include: utilization of renewable energy, energy-saving technology, novel 
energy technology, management and service of energy efficiency, biomass ethanol produced 
from cellulose, utilization and advanced research on clean energy, promotion of novel energy 
applications, a highly concentrated photovoltaic (HCPV) solar system on a megawatt scale, and 
business of renewable energy equipment. With sufficient funding, an environment conducive to 
energy saving and a consensus among the society, the government could foster collaboration 
between business and academia, optimize the use of limited resources in Taiwan, increase future 
energy efficiency by 2%, and achieve the objective to reduce greenhouse gases. The fund and 
manpower for the energy field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-36 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-36: Funding and Manpower for Energy Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Atomic Energy Field - The field of nuclear energy encompasses nuclear fission, 
nuclear fusion, accelerator and isotope and radioactive applications. To achieve the goal of 
maximizing the economic benefits from the technological knowledge of atomic energy, the 
development of domestic nuclear energy field takes the strategy of vertical division of work. The 
National Science Council in cooperation with the Atomic Energy Council is in charge of the 
upstream basic research and talent introduction and cultivation. The fund management 
committee for terminal operation of nuclear energy is in charge of the security technology of the 
nuclear energy and the processing and disposal of radioactive waste, dry storage of used nuclear 
fuel, and compile R&D budget for decommissioning of terminal nuclear facilities. While Taiwan 
Power Company of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is in charge of the cooperation with the 
downstream industry to support the local nuclear energy industry. The fund and manpower for 
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
180 
 
Science Education Field - The primary goals of the science education field are to 
cultivate R&D talents and draft plan and promote technology studies. The Department of Science 
Education Development in NSC is mainly responsible for planning, promotion, counseling and 
evaluation of various disciplinary research and development work for science education, R&D, 
and counseling and promotion of public science education. The Ministry of Education Advisory 
Office provides forward-looking and pioneering technology for talent cultivation and integration 
and coordination and promotion platform for improving talent quality in line with national 
technological and economic development. Generally speaking, the planning and promotion of 
the S&T plan of the science education field embraces humanities and social science education, 
basic science education and various applied sciences and technology education, as well as 
recruitment of S&T talents and cultivation of talents for industry-academia cooperation. The 
fund and manpower for the science education field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 
3-39 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-39:  Fund and Manpower for Science Education Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
1. Management and Guidance Field - Taiwan government gets serious with the following 
important tasks: strengthening scientific management capability, enhancing project 
implementation efficiency, effectively allocating and employing government technology 
funding, establishing fair environment and capability for linking S&T R&D and industrial 
development, and building a globally competitive industrial park and operation mechanism 
as basis for future S&T industry development. To bring success to the afore-mentioned 
tasks, the management and guidance field was giving special attention in 2007. The fund 
and manpower for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-40 below. 
 
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
182 
 
 
Figure 3-42: Fund and Manpower for Service Industry Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Electronic Field – Four mid-term master plans were implemented in the electronic field 
in 2007, including the E-agriculture Technology Development Plan, the E-commerce Mid-term 
Master Plan, the Electronic Promotion Plan of Small and Medium Enterprises, and the Electronic 
Application and Promotion Plan of the Manufacturing Industry. The fund and people involved in 
the electronic field from 2003 to 2007 are shown in the Figure 3-43 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-43: Fund and Manpower for Electronic Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Humanities and Social Sciences Field - This field is a critical area for national 
scientific research. The government had increased funding in 2007 for R&D and innovative 
teaching in this field. At the same time, scholars of humanities and social sciences of various 
colleges were invited to participate in promotion of the plan and had excellent contributions to 
improving the research quality of the humanities and social sciences as well as teaching quality. 
The promotion strategy for bringing in innovative teaching is to start from one single course in 
the curriculum in all levels of educational institutions and gradually expand to all school courses. 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
184 
 
 
Figure 3-21: Fund and Manpower for Labor Safety and Chemistry Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Chemical Engineering Field - The chemical engineering industry in Taiwan has scored 
remarkable achievements in the past several decades. In addition to earning massive foreign 
reserve for the nation, the industry is indispensable in laying the foundation for the advancement 
of Taiwan‘s industries and fostering economic miracles. Therefore it is an essential industry for 
economic development. The fund and manpower for the chemical engineering field from 2003 to 
2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-22 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-22: Fund and Manpower for Chemical Engineering Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Materials Field - The semiconductor and optoelectronics industries rose in the 1970s 
with high technological levels and surprisingly high output value. The required materials are the 
essential hi-tech materials which are complex and critical such as certain special macromolecules, 
metal and ceramic materials. Among the essential hi-tech materials, Taiwan‘s development of 
general purpose materials is comparatively early and mature, even leading the world in some 
areas. Development of the essential hi-tech materials to maintain the self-sufficiency will greatly 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
0
5
10
15
20
25
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
0
2
4
6
8
10
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
186 
 
 
Figure 3-24: Fund and Manpower for Textile Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
3.2.5  Civil Engineering and Mechanics 
 
Civil Engineering Field - In recent years, due to global warming, violent climate 
changes in various parts of the world and frequent natural disasters causing great loss of human 
life and properties, environmental preservation and disaster mitigation have become important 
issues. Taiwan is an island located at the junction of two continental plates which collide with 
each other and release the energy in the form of earthquake. Moreover, Taiwan is constantly hit 
by typhoon in the summer and fall as well causing landslide and flood quite often. It is therefore 
imperative to research and develop solutions for these pressing issues. Civil engineering is 
indispensable for addressing these issues. The scope of the research in this field encompasses 
structural engineering, earth engineering, hydrological engineering, engineering materials, 
communications and transportation engineering, survey, architectural urban planning and 
construction management, etc. Basic research is mainly carried out by various academic 
institutions under the National Science Council engaging in large or integrative technology 
research in collaboration with policy objectives. Furthermore, the Ministry of Transportation and 
Communications, the Public Construction Commission of the Executive Yuan and the 
Construction and Planning Agency of the Ministry of the Interior have also engaged in relevant 
research in collaboration with relevant laws and regulations of administration and operation 
implementation. The fund and manpower for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the 
Figure 3-25 below. 
 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
0
5
10
15
20
25
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
188 
 
components of the automobile. The government plans to combine its superior electronics and 
information industry to develop telematics for use by automobiles to improve industry 
competitiveness and become a link in international division of work. Over the past years, various 
departments of the government have also actively collaborated in promoting the electric 
motorcycles and the Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS). Relevant laws, regulations, 
standards and the environment for using electric motorcycles have started to surface. The fund 
and manpower for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-27. 
 
 
Figure 3-27: Fund and Manpower for Transportation Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Aerospace Field – The R&D for this field can be divided into aeronautics and 
astronautics. Currently, Taiwan invests mostly in astronautics for practical reason. In terms of 
capital outlay, the aerospace may be divided into:  (1) astronautical technology development 
program promoted by the National Science Council; (2) the aeronautical industry development 
and promotion program as promoted by the Industrial Development Bureau, MOEA; (3) 
essential technology research promoted by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications 
Technology Advisory Office. Achievements of the astronautical technology development 
program include: (1) International application of weather information of Formosat-3 satellite to 
assist weather forecast; (2) earth images from Formosat-2 for environmental monitoring and 
disaster emergency support. The fund and manpower for the aerospace field from 2003 to 2007 
are depicted in the Figure 3-28 below. 
 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
190 
 
environmental pollution requirements. In line with the trend of international environmental 
protection issues such as greenhouse effect and toxic materials management, Taiwan government 
plans to develop essential technologies for environmental protection management in order to 
minimize environmental hazards and improve the efficiency in using resources. Moreover, the 
development of environmental protection technology is not only for processing pollutants and 
recycling disposables, but also for, based on life cycles analysis for the environment, improving 
product design (ecological design) and manufacturing processes (clean manufacturing processes), 
supply chain management, environmental communication, green consumption, and resources 
recycling. The R&D fund and manpower for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the 
Figure 3-30 below.  
 
 
Figure 3-30: R&D Fund and Manpower for Environmental Protection Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Eco-technology and Biodiversities Field - The Executive Yuan adopted the 
Biodiversities Promotion Program in 2001 as the direction for national promotion of 
biodiversities preservation. To leave a better living environment to later generations, the Public 
Construction Commission commenced implementation of the Ecological Engineering 
Development Program in 2004. The program mainly comprised the following three areas: (1) 
Ecological engineering basic technology development plan; (2) ecological environment 
remediation technology application and promotion plan; (3) ecological engineering technological 
talents cultivation and all-people publicity plan. The fund and manpower for this field from 2003 
to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-31 below. 
 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
192 
 
 
Figure 3-32: Fund and Manpower for Earth Sciences Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Weather Field - The Central Weather Bureau is the only legal competent unit 
designated by Taiwan‘s weather law for provision of weather forecast. It bears the responsibility 
in guiding, integrating, fostering and improving the weather technology and improving weather 
forecast to effectively prevent and mitigate natural disaster. The Bureau has cooperated with 
academic units in introducing observation technologies including the retrieval of atmospheric 
water vapor on ground by GPS, aircraft drop windsone and dual polarimetric weather radar. The 
National Science Council has funded the universities in introducing mobile Doppler weather 
radar and the wind profiler observation system and subsidized SoWMEX or TiMREX and 
typhoon aircraft drop observation project. The National Applied Research Laboratories also set 
up the National Typhoon and Flooding Research Center to make all-out efforts to promote and 
enhance Taiwan‘s R&D capability in the typhoon and flood modeling. The fund and manpower 
for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-33 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-33: Fund and Manpower for Weather Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
105
110
115
120
125
130
135
7.40
7.60
7.80
8.00
8.20
8.40
8.60
8.80
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
194 
 
maintain sustainable development of agricultural water in Taiwan. The allocation of fund and 
manpower for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-35 below.  
 
 
Figure 3-35: Fund and Manpower for Resources Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Energy Field - Whereas Taiwan has limited land size in a highly isolated insular area, 
very high density of population and paucity of natural resources, and 98% of the energy supply 
relying on imports, Taiwan‘s emission of carbon dioxide represents 1% of the global emission. 
Taiwan‘s policy for R&D in energy technology was planned after a complete survey of domestic 
and foreign markets for energy and pertinent technologies. The nine major areas for 
technological R&D include: utilization of renewable energy, energy-saving technology, novel 
energy technology, management and service of energy efficiency, biomass ethanol produced 
from cellulose, utilization and advanced research on clean energy, promotion of novel energy 
applications, a highly concentrated photovoltaic (HCPV) solar system on a megawatt scale, and 
business of renewable energy equipment. With sufficient funding, an environment conducive to 
energy saving and a consensus among the society, the government could foster collaboration 
between business and academia, optimize the use of limited resources in Taiwan, increase future 
energy efficiency by 2%, and achieve the objective to reduce greenhouse gases. The fund and 
manpower for the energy field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-36 below. 
 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
196 
 
Disaster Prevention Field - The competitive development activities in this island with 
special climate, geography and geology have contributed to fragility of its environment. The 
comparatively incapable for combating disasters has put Taiwan a high risk area for disasters. In 
2007, the research work on disaster prevention mainly includes the research on disaster 
prevention technology and integration plan promoted by the sustainable discipline, the 
technology R&D on disaster prevention and rescue, and implementation on rescue operation 
program. The fund and manpower for the disaster prevention field from 2003 to 2007 are 
depicted in the Figure 3-38 below.  
 
 
Figure 3-38: Fund and Manpower for Disaster Prevention Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
3.2.7  Humanities, Education and Services 
 
Science Education Field - The primary goals of the science education field are to 
cultivate R&D talents and draft plan and promote technology studies. The Department of Science 
Education Development in NSC is mainly responsible for planning, promotion, counseling and 
evaluation of various disciplinary research and development work for science education, R&D, 
and counseling and promotion of public science education. The Ministry of Education Advisory 
Office provides forward-looking and pioneering technology for talent cultivation and integration 
and coordination and promotion platform for improving talent quality in line with national 
technological and economic development. Generally speaking, the planning and promotion of 
the S&T plan of the science education field embraces humanities and social science education, 
basic science education and various applied sciences and technology education, as well as 
recruitment of S&T talents and cultivation of talents for industry-academia cooperation. The 
fund and manpower for the science education field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 
3-39 below. 
 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
0
2
4
6
8
10
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
198 
 
and manpower for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-41 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-41: Fund and Manpower for Information Service Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Service Industry Field – The development of the service industry field continues to 
focus on application services with S&T and innovatively added value. The government has 
substantially increased resources in line with the policy to promote the service industry field so 
as to foster development of the emerging service industry and lay a foundation for social 
transformation. The fund and manpower for this field from 2005 to 2007 are depicted in the 
Figure 3-42 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-42: Fund and Manpower for Service Industry Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
Electronic Field – Four mid-term master plans were implemented in the electronic field 
in 2007, including the E-agriculture Technology Development Plan, the E-commerce Mid-term 
Master Plan, the Electronic Promotion Plan of Small and Medium Enterprises, and the Electronic 
Application and Promotion Plan of the Manufacturing Industry. The fund and people involved in 
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
0
10
20
30
40
50
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
200 
 
3.2.8.  Environmental Construction 
Synchrotron Radiation Research Field – For more than 15 years, Taiwan‘s synchrotron 
radiation research centers have aggressively built large trans-field high-end laboratory facilities 
with the number of light beams increasing from three to 29, wherein two are located in Japan‘s 
SPring-8 synchrotron radiation source. A number of instruments and equipment are among the 
first installation in the world. This brought Taiwan‘s high-end science laboratory having 
capability comparable with the advanced nations. Aside from academic basic research, the 
National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center has also built precision instruments which 
brought along a development of ultra vacuum, precision positioning, microwave technology, 
optics computing, magnetic technology and superconductivity technology. Development of 
accelerator engineering is gradually localized and cultivates more talents for construction of new 
accelerators. Taiwan has already developed the technique to operate the synchrotron accelerator 
at constant current. The addition of three new superconducting wigglers at bending sections and 
a superconducting accelerating cavity have gained Taiwan an international recognition. The fund 
and manpower for this field from 2003 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-45. 
 
 
Figure 3-45: Fund and Manpower for Synchrotron Radiation Research Center 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI  
 
Instrument Technology Research Field - Precision instruments encompass an extensive 
scope which integrates optical, mechanical, electrical, electronic, vacuum and control 
technologies.  In accordance with US SIC instruments product group and industrial product 
classification by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, precision instruments can roughly be divided 
into electronic measurement, process control, optical and chemical analysis, medical and other 
instruments and are basic tools for R&D, production, quality control and testing of various 
industries. Aside from requirement for development of national S&T policy, it maintains the 
basic platform for instrument technology, and implements the plan of research and production of 
the satellite remote sensing carrier system and basic technology capability for essential 
components. At the same time, it develops instruments equipment with special features to 
0
50
100
150
200
250
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
202 
 
 
Figure 3-47: Fund and Manpower for National Bureau of Standards, Metrology and Inspection 
and Standard Laboratory 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI 
 
2. Forensic Field - In September 2003, Taiwan implemented ―improved progressionism for the 
concerned party‖ and the ―public litigation in court with cross-examination‖ system for 
criminal trial. All evidences will be stringently debated in court. Hence, it is imperative to 
improve the reliability and trustworthiness of evidences. The gun assassination incident of 
President Chen on March 19, 2004 shocked Taiwan.  The government thereby commenced 
forensic science into the national S&T development program. The fund and manpower for 
the forensic science field from 2006 to 2007 are depicted in the Figure 3-48 below. 
 
 
Figure 3-48: Fund and Manpower for Forensic Science Field 
Source: Yearbook of Science and Technology, Taiwan (2008); Modified by STPI  
 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
0.00
0.50
1.00
1.50
2.00
2.50
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
(m
an
 y
ea
r)
 
(m
ill
io
n
) 
Fund(US) Manpower
204 
 
economic research and stated in national and international political programmes. At the same 
time exact measurements of correlation between R&D expenditures (and other indicators of 
scientific and innovative development), economic growth and prosperity significantly vary 
depending on specific periods of time, countries, industries and enterprises, as well as models, 
approaches, theories and specific statistical tools used to make the calculations. In some cases 
measuring this relationship turns out not to be possible at all. Still, all research one way or 
another confirms that there's a positive relation between certain "scientific indicators" and 
economic growth. With certain reserve, the following estimate can be made for developed 
countries: increasing R&D (innovation) expenditures by 1% results in economic growth between 
0.05 to 0.15%
48
.  
So far Russia remains in the group of countries who spend much lower share of their 
GDP on science, and cannot ensure efficient transfer of R&D results into the real economy. In 
2006 R&D expenditures in our country amounted to just 1.08% of GDP. Significant increase of 
this figure during the shift towards innovative scenario of national development is expected to 
take place only after 2015. 
Experience of countries who've managed to remain world economic and S&T leaders 
for a long time clearly shows that the following are necessary conditions (and at the same time 
signs) of active economic development, increasing competitiveness and achieving high living 
standards: 
 strong growth of investments in R&D, technological and organisational innovations, whose 
effect appears not just following immediate initial practical application but also as a result 
of wider dissemination and implementation of innovative products, technologies and 
services; 
 fast growth of high-tech industries and services; 
 growth of science-intensive and innovation activities in all sectors of economy, including 
traditional ones; 
 emergence of new types of economic activities, etc. 
At the same time, efficiency of R&D and innovation activities in any country depends 
on the level of support they receive from various sources; specific steps taken to organise and 
promote such activities; their adequacy to specific situation in the particular country; the range 
and coordination of tools being used; accuracy of assessment of the country's position on the 
global market (including its high-tech sector), etc. In essence we're talking about specific 
features and efficiency of national models for regulating the science and innovation sphere. 
In the most general way, all such models can be divided into two groups. One 
summarises the experience of traditional economic leaders (primarily the USA and European 
countries), the other is based on the relatively new experience of a number of newly 
                                                 
48
 Russian Federation - OECD, 2006; European Competitiveness Report, 2001, 2003. 
206 
 
initial, pre-competitive stages of the innovation cycle (creation, accumulation and dissemination 
of knowledge)
49
.  
Normally such extension is accompanied by adjustment of national laws and public 
administration systems. Development and implementation of regulating initiatives is decentralised; 
small and medium organisations are identified as regulation subjects in their own right; the system 
gets more dynamic and flexible, allowing to react quickly to changing external factors and 
conditions (in particular to shifts and new trends on the global high-tech markets, etc.). 
Getting back to specific aspects of international comparison and this project's 
objectives, note that analysis of processes taking place in the science and innovation sphere (and 
appropriate government policies) in industrially developed countries should be seen as a kind of 
background required for diagnosing the Russian model of organising R&D and innovation 
activities, assessing its main parameters, challenges and prospects. The choice of point of view 
and accents in the analysis of international experience for this project is determined by the fact 
that Russia
50
 is trying to achieve sustainable development and increase competitiveness of its 
national economy from unfavourable starting point: predominantly resource-producing, 
structurally disproportional economy, low overall innovative activity, technologically obsolete 
majority of industrial enterprises etc. The experience of the most economically developed 
countries regarding securing and maintaining good positions in the global economic space is 
certainly very interesting as a guideline for choosing the vector and the main directions for 
developing and improving national models for promotion and support of science and innovation, 
including borrowing certain techniques and tools. In this aspect, a comparative analysis between 
Russia and Taiwan makes sense as Taiwan follows the industrially developed countries close 
enough in their innovation and R&D policies and activities. 
As to the newly industrialised countries, their success was based on the search and 
implementation of unusual policy tools capable of ensuring a high rate of economic growth and a 
breakthrough in the global competitiveness rating, despite tough external limitations. The latter 
among other things include lack of resources (financial, human, organisational etc.), significantly 
incomplete and fragmented R&D systems and market infrastructure, high political and 
investment risks etc.
51
. This experience is valuable to Russia because it demonstrates possibility 
of speedy improvement of the rate and quality of economic growth, innovation and 
competitiveness in a situation of unfavourable external conditions and limitations – to a certain 
extent similar to the Russian one. 
Unlike the traditional leaders, these countries view any "scientific" initiatives as part of 
innovation policy, and all of them are strictly aimed at and should contribute to achieving 
priority economic objectives. Which is not surprising, taking into account the specific features of 
these countries' development and lack of established, institutionally and organisationally 
                                                 
49
 National Innovation Systems in Russia and EU, 2006. 
50
 And to a certain extent Taiwan. 
51
 Regarding implementation of newly industrialised countries' experience of creating "development institutes" and 
promoting innovative economic growth in Russia, 2004; Yakovlev, 2006, pp. 299–312, 388–408. 
208 
 
1.2. Bibliometric indicators of scientific activities 
Bibliometric indicators are increasingly more often applied to analyse scientific 
activities. They are used to make relevant assessments at various levels (individual scientists, 
research teams, projects, programmes, R&D organisations, universities, scientific fields, regions, 
countries etc.), and serve both purely analytical and more practical purposes - e.g. to help making 
decisions to finance various projects, support promising research areas, establish new or 
reorganise existing R&D centres
54
. 
1.2.1. Publication activity indicators in the Russian Federation and Taiwan 
The most basic bibliometric indicator is publication activity indicator, calculated by 
collecting data on the number of academic papers published by individual researchers, specific 
R&D divisions or centres, or in countries during specific periods. 
Decrease of publication activity by Russian scientists which first became apparent as 
early as the 1980s, has largely determined the current place of Russian science in the 
international research community. E.g. in 1980–1991 - contrary to the global trend - the number 
of publications by Soviet researchers in magazines indexed by ISI international citation 
databases dropped by 19.4%, while in the USA this indicator increased by 22.9%, in Canada by 
34.3%, in Germany by 37.6%, in Japan by 59.2%. Accordingly, despite the serious advances of 
Russian science in such fields as nuclear physics, space exploration, new materials etc., the 
USSR‘s contribution to international S&T periodicals dropped from 8.4% in 1980 to 6.3% in 
1991. In the 1990s this trend continued. During 1993–1999 the number of publications by 
Russian researchers in international magazines had dropped by 14.2% - almost the same 
proportion as during the whole previous decade
55
. 
Comparative data for 1997–2006 is shown in Appendix II, 9. In 2006 Russian scientists 
have authored 23.8 thousand publications (2.4% of the world‘s total, compared with 3.7% in 
1997). Accordingly, Russia has dropped to the 14
th
 place in the world rating losing 6 levels in 
nine years. During that period China, Spain, Australia, Korea, India and the Netherlands got 
ahead of Russia. Note however that the Netherlands‘ lead in 2006 was yet insignificant (3.5%), 
while the closest competitors were far behind Russia: Brazil (the 15
th
 place) was almost 28% 
behind the Russian value. 
The total number of publications in leading international scientific magazines under 
consideration here in 2006 reached 985.1 thousand. In 1997–2006 the world flow of scientific 
knowledge increased by over 230 thousand articles, or by 30.8%. In 1997 the G7 member 
countries were the leaders in terms of the number of published articles; together with Russia 
(who completes this group) G8 was the overall leader. But by the end of the above period the 
picture had changed: China skyrocketed from the 10
th
 to the 2
nd
 place, while Russia had dropped 
out of the group of leaders. 
                                                 
54
 Gokhberg, 2003; Borgman, Furner, 2002; Glänzel, 2003; Moed, 2005. 
55
 Gokhberg, 2003, с. 67. 
210 
 
and Nigeria, on the other hand, have dropped out. 
The highest increase of publications number was noted in Iran (9-fold), China (by 4.3 
times), Turkey (3.9) and Thailand (3.8 times). The number of publications in leading 
international magazines by Taiwanese authors during the ten years in question grew by 2.2 times. 
Among the countries listed in figure 4.1, only three CIS states showed a reduced number of 
articles in magazines indexed by WoS during 1997–2006: Belorussia (–25%), Russia (–14%) and 
the Ukraine (–4%). 
As to rating, the countries which achieved the fastest growth of publication numbers 
also demonstrated the biggest improvement of their positions: Iran (a 20-step jump compared 
with the 52
nd
 place in the 1997 rating), Turkey (11), China and Thailand (8 places up each). 
Taiwan‘s position has also improved (the 20th and 17th place, respectively). The worse decline 
was shown by Belorussia (13 lines down), Saudi Arabia (8), the Ukraine (12), Bulgaria (7) and 
Russia (6 lines down). However, despite the reduced number of Russian publications their 
coverage of various magazines - ―dispersion‖ - had increased: if in 1997 Russian articles were 
published in 1,984 scientific magazines, in 2006 this number grew to 2,318. 
It should be noted that Gini coefficient (measuring dispersion of publications) for all 50 
countries by 2006 has dropped to 0.65 (in 1997 it was 0.70). This is evidence of certain 
―levelling up‖ - authorship of scientific publications is now concentrated in specific countries to 
a lesser extent than previously. 
Publication activity trends are shown in figure 4.2. Note that in 1997 - 2006 the number 
of global publications grew at the average annual rate of 3%. OECD countries and the EU25 
showed strong positive dynamics though their rates were a bit lower (2.5% and 2.8%, 
respectively). The number of Russian publications in international magazines dropped at the rate 
of 1.7% per year. Note also that if this trend continues it will inevitably lead to further decline of 
Russia‘s position in the global scientific community. 
Analysis of countries‘ contribution to the global publications output reveals that only 
22 states rise above the 1% threshold. These are divided into the five groups above, producing 
more than 10 thousand publications a year. As was already noted, American researchers take part 
in producing almost every third article published in the world (interestingly, this figure - 30.6% - 
closely matches the data published by the US National Science Board
57
, despite different 
methodologies for calculating articles in the monitored magazines). The next four countries 
produced between 8.6 - 7.8%. of all articles. Researchers from the first five countries together 
account for 58% of the global output of scientific articles. Russia‘s and Taiwan‘s shares are much 
more modest - 2.4 and 1.8%, respectively. In terms of this relative indicator (shares), their 
positions in the world rating are the same as the ones calculated via absolute number of articles -  
the 14
th
 and 17
th
, respectively. 
If the number of articles published in leading international scientific magazines 
                                                 
57
 National Science Board, 2006. 
212 
 
Against the background of significant increase of the global publications flow, in all 
areas except interdisciplinary research Russia shows mostly negative trends. The exceptions are 
just six disciplines: computer science (maximum growth of 16.6% - which is still more than 6 
times below the world peak value recorded in this booming area); immunology (16.0% - here, on 
the contrary, Russia shows a much quicker growth - more than by an order of magnitude ahead 
of the global trends); pharmacology and toxicology (14.0%) and space science (13.0%) where 
the growth rate of Russian publications number is close to the world average; 
environment/ecology (12.2%); clinical medicine (2.4%). The biggest decline in Russian 
publication activities is noted in such areas as economics and business (–30%), agriculture (–
29%) and technical science (–20%). 
The reduction of interdisciplinary articles‘ number shouldn‘t be misinterpreted: it‘s due 
to the fact that Russian magazine Doklady Akademii Nauk (Reports of the Academy of Science) 
before 2000 was indexed in WoS databases as a single publication classified under 
―Interdisciplinary Research‖ category. All articles published there were automatically counted 
under the same heading, which provided 80% of all Russian articles in this category. However, 
since 2000 WoS started treating this magazine as 5 separate thematic publications, classifying 
articles under specific relevant fields instead of Interdisciplinary Research. Similar reasons 
explain the formally registered global decline of publication activities in this field - as well as 
improved procedures for classifying articles published in interdisciplinary magazines. 
A better understanding of countries‘ scientific interests can be obtained by analysing 
the indicator known in international bibliometric practice as «activity index» (AI)
60
 - while in 
Russia it‘s usually called ―research specialism index‖ 61. Its value is calculated by comparing 
national and global scientific publications‘ structures. 
In 2002-2006 Russian science specialised in the following areas (i.e. these fields 
accounted for larger shares of the overall Russian scientific publications output than the world 
average) (ranged by AI values in descending order): physics, space science, earth science, 
chemistry, mathematics, material science, technical sciences. Compared with the previous five 
years (1997–2001), these fields‘ indices grew or remained largely unchanged, except material 
science (13% drop) and technical sciences (their index fell from 1.18 to 1.01 so now they cannot 
be confidently counted as an active research area). Space science demonstrated a strong growth - 
more than 20%.. 
As to scientific fields in which Russian science does not show particular enthusiasm for, 
the gravest situation is with economics (0.08), pharmacology and toxicology (0.11) and 
immunology (0.14). However, if in the latter two areas the indices grew during the last five years 
(in particular in immunology - by the whole of 50%), economics and business became even less 
important in the structure of Russian scientific publications. Two biological disinclines also 
should be noted: biology and biochemistry‘s indices grew from 0.63 to 0.71, while microbiology 
                                                 
60
 Frame, 1977; Schubert, Braun, 1986. 
61
 Gokhberg, 2003, p. 229. 
214 
 
are evaluated via the number of times the articles have been cited
62
. 
In terms of citation of articles by local scientists, Russia is 17
th
 out of the 30 leading 
countries of the world (see Appendix II, 11). In 2002–2006, articles by Russian authors 
published during the same period were cited approximately 267 thousand times - or 1.37% of 
global citation flow. In citations rating Russia has a lower position than in publications rating: 
the country is behind Switzerland (which 4 lines higher than its place in publications rating), 
Sweden (5), Belgium and Denmark (7 lines higher each). On the other hand, India which is 
ahead of Russia in terms of publications number is behind it in terms of citations (albeit slightly). 
Note that articles by American scientists account for almost 50% of citations, though their share 
of the global publication output is one third. 
Taiwan has the 23
rd
 place in citations rating. During the abovementioned five-year 
period authors from this country have been cited 202 thousand times - 1.04% of the global 
citations flow. 
Citation level of Russian publications is growing, but always at a lower rate than the 
world‘s average (see Appendix II, 11). In 2002–2006 publications by Russian authors received 
25% more citations than in 1997–2001, but their share in the global citations flow dropped from 
1.47% to 1.37%. 
An important aspect of research productivity analysis is analysing the volume of highly 
citied articles. These publications are important not only because they have higher than average 
citation index but also due to their different qualitative properties: normally they are authored by 
international teams of researchers; they are cited by researchers from different countries in many 
various magazines; have a lower self-citation level, etc.
63
 Also, a few highly citied articles 
devoted to a specific discipline can have an appreciable effect on the overall national citation 
index for this scientific field
64
. 
Out of 29 countries - leaders in terms of citation numbers- Russia has the 27
th
 place 
(981 highly cited articles), followed only by India and Turkey. Only one article by Russian 
authors out of approximately 280 becomes highly cited. Since we define highly cited articles as 
the top 1% in terms of citation numbers, we can argue that Russian articles become highly cited 
almost three times less often than the world average. Taiwan has a higher place in citations 
number rating - the 25
th
. The share of highly cited works during the period in question was 
0.45%. As was already noted, due to the fact that the UK is represented in the ESI by its four 
regions, we can‘t calculate high-citation figures for the whole nation; however, the figure for the 
most scientifically productive region - England - is 1.5%, which certainly allows to include the 
UK into the leading group of countries in these terms. 
Citation level was calculated on the basis of 2007 data for articles published in various 
years; only highly cited articles which came to light between 1997–2006 were taken into account 
                                                 
62
Garfield, 1955; Egghe, Rousseau, 1990, p. 203–289; Glänzel, 2003, p. 53–72. 
63
 Aksnes, 2003. 
64
 Aksnes, Sivertsen, 2004. 
216 
 
Comparison of data reveals that in any discipline, the share of Russian publications in 
the global output is strictly higher than the similar citations indicator. This means that in all 
scientific areas Russian publications are cited more rarely than the world average.  
The biggest number of citations get Russian articles on immunology (4.9), molecular 
biology and genetics (3.8); however, up to a point it‘s due to the tradition of high-level citation 
typical to these fields - they are world leaders in terms of citations (in reverse order). Actually, 
Russian publications devoted to the above subject areas on average are cited twice (immunology) 
or three times (molecular biology and genetics) less often than the world average. Note that the 
closest to the world average citation level of Russian articles is in economics (0.93 of the world 
average) - though it should be interpreted with caution: there‘s a danger of a chance peak value 
due to the small overall number of such articles (153 during the five-year period in question). 
The second and third places in terms of relative citation level are held by research areas 
considered priorities in Russia - physics and technical science. Other disciplines which show a 
close to the world average citation level fall in the middle or even in the second half of the rating 
in terms of relative citation per article: mathematics has the 9
th
 place, space and earth sciences - 
the 11
th
 and 12
th
 respectively, material science - the 14
th
, chemistry - the 18
th
. With the exception 
of physics and technical science, overall citations of Russian works devoted to leading subject 
areas is explained rather by the number of articles compared with the world level than by 
individual articles‘ citation appeal. 
If we combine all research areas we‘ll see that a publication by a Russian researcher 
published in 2002–2006 was cited during the same period on average 2.15 times. The world 
average is approximately twice higher - 4.38 citations per article. 
Out of the whole volume of highly cited - i.e. the most successful - articles by Russian 
authors, the leader (in absolute numbers and percentages) is physics: 525 articles published 
during 1997 - 2006 became highly cited, or one of every 140 articles on physics. Still, even the 
most successful field of Russian science doesn‘t quite reach the world average level: by 
definition, every one hundredth publication in appropriate subject area becomes highly cited. At 
the same time Russian scientists were authors of three out of ten most highly cited articles on 
physics during the period in question, including the one in the top line of citations ratings. 
In terms of absolute numbers, physics (after a large gap) is followed by technical 
science and chemistry. However, in terms of percentages of ―successful‖ articles the second and 
third places are taken by economics and environment/ecology - though Russian publications in 
these fields happen to become highly cited twice less often than the world average. Still, it 
should be kept in mind that regarding economics, the two highly cited articles were written by 
foreign researchers though attributed to Russia since one of the authors of the first publication 
works for the Stockholm School of Economics in St. Petersburg while two authors of the second 
article work for Moscow offices of international investment banks. 
At the same time chemistry shows surprisingly low results - though it‘s one of Russia‘s 
active research areas accounting for one fifth of all Russian articles. Though in terms of absolute 
218 
 
a high citation level, Russian researchers in effect have to work together with scientists from 
other countries. 
In terms of the share of publications written jointly with foreign partners during the 
decade under consideration here, Taiwan was one of the last three countries (the last but one 
place in 2006). Only every sixth (in 1997) or fifth (in 2006) articles were published jointly with 
foreign colleagues. However, if in 1997 the number of such publications was 21, in 2006 it grew 
by almost eight times to 164. 
Russia‘s major regular partners in the field of science are Germany, the USA, France, 
the UK, Italy and Japan. All these countries are among the biggest producers of scientific articles. 
Out of the countries which publish moderate number of articles, the ones actively cooperating 
with Russia include Switzerland, Poland and the Netherlands. The trends noted during 1997–
2006 include a significant growth of joint publications with Taiwan (by 7.8 times), China (3.6), 
Portugal (3), Korea (2.8), India (2.2), Greece and Mexico (2.1 times each) and Australia (2 
times). The only noticeable reduction of joint publication activity was with Denmark (by 1.3 
times). Generally, Russia‘s biggest partners in 2006 were OECD countries (8,097 publications, 
or 91% of all Russian articles written jointly with foreign researchers). 5,879 articles were 
published jointly with scientists from the EU25 countries (66% of the total number). 
The question can also be reversed: to which countries Russia is an important partner in 
terms of joint publications‘ share? The data for 29 countries out of the 30 biggest article 
publishers in 2006 (minus Russia, naturally) is given in figure 4.24. Russian researchers‘ role is 
most evident in Finland (almost every 25
th
 article was published jointly with them). 
Approximately every 32
nd
 article by Polish, German and Norwegian scientists also had Russian 
co-authors. In these countries - as well as in Switzerland and Austria - chances to find an article 
with Russian co-authors are higher than in the overall global output of scientific publications 
(note that Russia‘s share of that flow in 2006 was 2.42%). 
As was already noted, co-authors from OECD countries play a major role in Russian 
science (91% of all Russian publications written jointly with foreign scientists, or 34% of all 
Russian articles). On the other hand, cooperation with Russia doesn‘t have an appreciable effect 
on research output in these countries: the share of articles with Russian co-authors amounts to 
just about 1% of all articles published in the OECD countries. EU25 plays a more modest role in 
Russian publications flow (66% of joint publications or 25% of their total number); at the same 
time Russia plays a more prominent role in the European research space: almost 1.6% of articles 
published there were written jointly with Russian scientists. The biggest effect of collaboration 
with Russian researchers is noted in countries which remain at a lower level of socio-economic 
development. The share of articles by Taiwanese scientists published jointly with Russians is not 
large - less than 1%. 
Russia‘s relative role as a collaborator of various leading (in the scientific field) 
countries can be estimated with the help of the data in table 4.4. Russia is the 6
th
 most important 
research partner to Poland, 7
th
 to Germany and Finland (these three countries have the top places 
220 
 
1.3. Patenting in Russia and Taiwan 
The importance of data on patenting is defined by patents‘ role as a form of presenting 
commercially valuable S&T results for application in innovation activities. Patents not only 
provide legal protection for inventions but serve as unique source of technological information: 
data included in patents is not normally available elsewhere. Also, patenting usually stays a few 
years ahead of practical implementation of appropriate S&T results into industrial production, so 
it allows to anticipate forthcoming technological innovations including radical ones, which 
increase national economy‘s competitiveness. 
 
1.3.1. Patenting of inventions 
In 2006 in Russia 37.7 thousand patent applications were submitted; out of them 27.9 
thousand by Russian and 9.8 thousand by foreign applicants (see Appendix II, 13). 
National patenting trend in 1995 - 2006 was appreciably positive - a 69.8% growth 
(58.5% for Russian applicants and 2.1-fold for foreign ones). However, in certain years the 
number of patent applications declined (in particular in 1997, 2002 and 2004 - by 16.1%, 4.4% 
and 8%, respectively), which reduced the overall growth rate. The longest period of 
uninterrupted growth of number of patent applications submitted by Russian applicants (with 
average annual growth rate of 12.8%) was in 1997-2001. For applications submitted by foreign 
applicants during this period, the growth rate was only 1.3%. However, from 2003 the situation 
has changed dramatically. If Russian applicants‘ inventive activity in 2003 - 2006 grew only 
slightly (at 3.9% per year on average; in 2003 - 2005 there was a decline by 1.2% per year and 
only in 2006 the number of applications by Russian citizens increased by 17.9%), foreign 
applicants demonstrated a significant growth of patent applications they submitted - on average 
24% a year. Note that in 2006 (compared with 2003) inventive activity coefficient grew from 
1.73 to 1.96; this relative indicator measures the effect (intensity) of R&D and S&T activities. 
However, dynamics of the coefficient which takes into account changes in the number of 
population are somewhat different from absolute values, and change patenting trends in the 
country: this indicator dropped in 2003-2004 and grew in 2005-2006. Accordingly, due to 
increased number of patent applications submitted by foreigners, the self-sufficiency indicator 
(ratio of Russian applications to the total number of patent applications submitted in the country) 
dropped from 0.81 to 0.74 (see figure 14 in Appendix II). 
In our opinion, the decline of inventive activity in the country in 2003-2004 (when 
public funding of R&D work was increasing) can be explained by the changes in tax laws which 
have cancelled a number of breaks for VAT and profit taxes - and, accordingly, increased the tax 
burden on R&D organisations. In particular, the new RF Tax Code didn‘t include the provision 
(which remained valid until January 1, 2002) exempting patenting and licensing operations from 
VAT (except industrial property brokering). Non-budgetary profits of public organisations were 
crossed out from the list of tax-exempted profits; the period of time needed to include R&D 
222 
 
12.1 times less than in Japan, 7 and 7.8 times less than in the US, 2.2 and 4.5 times less than in 
Korea. Furthermore, if in 1995 Russia was not far behind the UK (which had the place 
immediately above Russia) (less than 1.1 thousand patent applications‘ difference), in 2006 the 
gap between Russia and Germany (which then took the fifth place immediately above Russia) 
was so large (more than 19.4 thousand applications, or 1.7 times), that it seems almost 
impossible to close it in the current situation. A convincing argument in favour of the above 
statement is the growth rate of Russian patent applications: only 58.6% in 12 years (Appendix II, 
15). 
Thus international comparison of patent information and its trends also suggests a dire 
need to improve economic, legal and organisational mechanisms in the S&T sphere, to 
implement the currently very popular in Russia plans to achieve a technological breakthrough: to 
create a competitive R&D sector, orient the economy towards development and 
commercialisation of technologies, and make the country an active, full-fledged participant in 
the Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights Agreement (TRIPS) in anticipation of 
the supposed entry into the World Trade Organisation (WTO). 
International experience clearly demonstrates that the only way to achieve the above 
objectives is by technological modernisation of the economy, making it innovation-oriented by 
the very nature. Science and high-technology industries serve as generators of economic growth. 
The best current example of successful government policy aimed at achieving technological 
breakthrough is China, where government is doing all it can to promote commercialisation of 
S&T results and help domestic hi-tech companies entering international markets. 
The analysis of indicators based on ratio between domestic patent applications and 
indicators measuring GDP, R&D expenditures and population numbers, allows to measure and 
compare efficiency of S&T activities in various countries. It must be stressed that like any 
composite indicator, these need to be interpreted with caution, taking into account various 
economic aspects - especially when performing international comparative studies. 
In terms of patent applications per 1 million people, the group of countries ahead of the 
world average figures in 2006 included 15 OECD members (including Japan and Korea - the 
clear leaders, the USA, Germany, the UK, France etc.), Taiwan and Russia. 
 
1.3.3. Patenting inventions abroad 
Growing internationalisation of technology and product trade, international 
harmonisation of patent laws and practices and simplified procedures for submitting applications 
introduced by Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) promoted development of globalisation in the 
intellectual property sphere and contributed to more active patenting of R&D results at regional 
patent offices including European Patent Office (EPO). 
Throughout the period under consideration here (1995 - 2004), the undisputed leaders 
224 
 
Less wide gaps are noted in transportation technology including rail and trackless vehicles, 
shipbuilding, airspace industry (10), paper (19), weapons and ammunition (25), instrumentation 
and tools including control tools and computers, training and data storage equipment, acoustic 
instrumentation (27 and 28). 
Accordingly, high-technology inventions and developments including rail and trackless 
vehicles, shipbuilding, airspace industry (10), instrumentation and tools including control tools 
and computers, training and data storage equipment, acoustic instrumentation (27 and 28) are at 
the very bottom of the country‘s technology areas rating. 
According to the OECD, distribution of patent applications by sector of economy 
reveals clear leadership of industrial production: in 2004 about 88.4% of all applications to EPO 
were submitted by industrial firms (see figure 13). This trend - typical to most of the OECD 
member states - remained practically unchanged since the mid-1990s. Some countries - e.g. 
China and Taiwan - showed a significant growth of this indicator during the period in question: 
from 42 to 52.7% and from 42 to 64.1%, respectively - evidence of rapid technological 
development. 
In terms of national shares of applications submitted to EPO by industrial companies, 
Russia is a clear outsider at 16% - evidence of inefficient structure of the country‘s S&T sphere, 
poor legal system regulating patenting and licensing activities - which are hindering practical 
application and commercialisation of created R&D results in the real sector of the economy. 
The public sector (including laboratories and universities) accounts for 7.6% of all 
patent applications submitted to EPO (see figures 14 and 15 in Appendix). Out of the  countries 
represented in the chart, the biggest shares of patent applications submitted by public 
organisations have Singapore and India. Most of the countries under consideration here, 
including Australia, France, the UK, Canada, Israel, Korea, Taiwan etc., showed a decline of this 
value during the period in question. Furthermore, many countries (and Taiwan among them) in 
2006 submitted almost none such applications at all. At the same time Singapore and Japan 
demonstrate a significant growth of such applications‘ share since the mid-1990s. 
In Russia the share of patent applications for inventions submitted by public sector 
organisations is 1.4% - less than the world average. Keeping in mind that a large proportion of 
Russian S&T sphere is made up by public sector organisations, the above value is very small; it 
not only indicates low patenting and licensing activity but highlights the fact that public sector 
research organisations see the domestic technology market as their first priority. 
As to the share of patents owned by universities, the leaders here are Singapore, Israel, 
Ireland, Spain, the UK, Belgium, the USA and China: these countries‘ universities own between 
6.- 13% of patents (figure 5.14).  In countries with rapidly developing economies - such as 
Singapore and Israel - universities hold 13.1 and 9.9% of patents, respectively. Among the 
OECD countries the highest level of activity demonstrate Irish universities - they account for 
9.7% of patents (note that this figure has almost tripled during the previous decade). 
The share of patent applications for inventions submitted by Russian higher education 
226 
 
and American ones: the country‘s share is just 0.008% of all patent applications. 
Since international comparison of patent statistics involves a host of difficulties due to 
specific features of national legislations and patenting procedures, an original technique is used to 
deal with them: identifying the so-called patent families, or patents obtained in various countries to 
protect the same invention
67. Defining such a patent ―family‖ and treating it as an integrated whole 
allows to eliminate the effect of such factors as duplication of patent applications and actual patents, 
differences in technological levels and economic value of inventions - since due to high costs, only 
the most promising, first-rate inventions are patented in foreign countries. Especially interesting 
are consolidated - e.g. triad - patent families, i.e. those which include EPO, USPTO and JPO 
patents which are considered as priorities by all inventors. 
In 2005 the global flow of triad patents amounted to about 52.8 thousand - over 1.5 times 
more than in 1995 (4.8% average annual growth rate). The five leader countries are those with high 
investment levels in S&T sphere - the US, Japan, Germany, Korea and France. The outsiders are 
former socialist countries and Soviet republics including Slovenia, Romania, Slovakia and Poland, 
as well as Iceland, Portugal and Argentina - i.e. nations with less developed industry - and ties 
between the latter and the R&D sphere, - relatively low level of investments in the S&T sector. 
This confirms the conclusion about a very strong positive correlation between the number of triad 
patent families and the level of R&D expenditures of industrial companies, based on the 
correlation coefficient of 0.98 
In 2005 the US accumulated 31% of patent families - 3.3% less than in 1995 (34.3%). 
Germany and Japan demonstrated identical trends: their respective shares dropped by more than 
1% though the absolute figures increased to 29% and 12%, respectively. 
A significant growth of patenting activity is shown by Asian countries, During the period 
in question China increased the number of its patent families by 22 times - going 15 lines up in the 
rating. Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and India also improved their positions. Innovation activities in 
these countries increased throughout the 1990s and in 2000 - 2005. Average annual growth rate of 
triad patent families in these countries varied between 16.6% in Singapore and 26.2% in Taiwan. 
In terms of the number of triad patent families (51 in 1995, 49 in 2005), Russia was 
one of the first twenty and thirty countries in the world, respectively (20
th
 and 26
th
 places) - 
lagging far behind the USA (238 and 336 times fewer triad patent families, respectively), Japan 
(187 and 313 times), Germany (94 and 129 times) and some other OECD countries (see figure 
5.18), and as of 1998-1999 also lagging behind the countries with rapidly developing economies 
such as Singapore, Taiwan and China. 
Note that if in 1995 Russia (see Appendix II, 18) was twice or more ahead of each of 
these countries (2.7 times ahead of China, 2.3 times ahead of Taiwan and 2.1 times ahead of 
Singapore), in 2005 it was lagging far behind them (by 8.9, 2.8 and 1.9 times, respectively). 
It‘s important to keep in mind that if we calculate the number of patent families per 1 
                                                 
67
 Gokhberg, 2003, p. 234. 
228 
 
1.4. Innovation activities in Russia, and their funding 
Current trends of innovation activities in Russia do not fully match expectations in line 
with creation of innovation-based economy, achieving dynamic sustainable growth, increased 
competitiveness of products and higher quality of life. So far there are no grounds for talking 
about technological breakthroughs in industry or active implementation of R&D results. 
Businesses‘ demand for and interest to innovations, especially technological ones, remain low. 
Furthermore, the latest data suggests there‘s a stagnation in this area (see Appendix II, 19). 
So far innovations had little real effect on the economy. On the other hand, the 
macroeconomic situation and the institutional framework are hindering enterprises‘ innovation 
activities. Their level is low in all industries and sectors of the economy - industrial production 
including small businesses and services, and for all types of innovations - technological, 
organisational, marketing ones. The crises of the late 1980s - early 1990s led to a significant drop 
of innovation activities‘ level, from 60–70% to 5–6% in the post-reform years. Growth of this 
figure coincided with the growth of macroeconomic indicators
68
. The top was achieved in 2000 
due to the short-term import substitution boom following the financial crisis of 1998. Then the 
indicator‘s dynamics stabilised at 9-11%. In 2007 2,485 industrial enterprises were engaged in 
development and implementation of technological innovations, or 9.4% of their total number - 
not an impressive figure compared with the EU members including Eastern European countries. 
The closest to Russia in this respect are Latvia (17%) and Bulgaria (18%). Germany, Ireland and 
the Czech Republic show much higher figures: 73%, 61% and 41%, respectively.
69
. 
To analyse the current situation let‘s take a look at the factors affecting enterprisers 
demand for innovations and their success in implementing innovations. The analysis shows that 
the highest demand for innovations demonstrate large, economically sound enterprises with 
sufficient financial, labour and intellectual resources. Note that the bigger the companies in a 
group, the higher share of innovators the group shows. Half of the Russian industrial enterprises 
engaged in technological innovations employ more than 500 workers. 
But it‘s not just about size. High-tech companies with not especially large output - or 
especially high level of investments - demonstrate impressive results. Their innovation activities 
are above 30.4%, which is close to the European average 
70
. In this case important factors 
include highly developed R&D potential, skilled workforce, highly efficient innovation 
expenditures, orientation towards international markets, various forms of government support. 
Unfortunately, due to their limited output these companies‘ activities so far have little effect on 
the overall innovation activities indicators for the Russian economy. In medium-technology 
industries the level of innovation activities is 1.5-2.5 times lower, in low-tech industries it‘s 5 
                                                 
68 In 1999–2005 Russia was one of five countries showing the highest GDP growth rate in the world (10% in 2000, 
6–7% in 2003–2006). 
69
 Source for the EU, Iceland and Norway (here and in other tables): Eurostat European Innovation Survey 
2002-2004; Data for Russia is for 2007 
70 The highest level is noted in sectors like manufacturing of radio, TV and communication equipment – 39.9%; 
aircraft and spacecraft manufacturing – 34.3%. 
230 
 
Success of innovative projects largely depends on how clearly company management 
sees the market situation - market potential, trends, competition, efficient advertising techniques 
etc. Accordingly, marketing innovations are being actively developed around the world, aimed at 
adapting products and services to the clients‘ needs to increase production and sales. In Russia 
the role of marketing in corporate management has been ignored for quite a long time. This, 
combined with lack of skilled personnel, is hindering the innovation process even further. In 
2007, 656 Russian industrial organisations were engaged in marketing innovations (2.5%). In 
high-tech industries this figure was three times higher. Today Russian companies are beginning 
to realise importance not just of specific marketing tools and techniques but of implementing 
them as a wholesome integrated business management concept. 
In the overall national economy the effect of innovation activities is not especially 
apparent. In 2007 large and medium-size enterprises produced 916.1 billion roubles‘ worth of 
innovative products; their share of the total amount of industrial products‘ sales remained under 
5.5%. Small enterprises manufactured 12.6 billion roubles‘ worth of innovative products, or 
2.0% of all shipped industrial products. Despite the fact that appropriate overall figures for the 
whole industrial production show certain growth (3.3% in 1996, 3.7% in 1999), it‘s certainly a 
very small contribution which doesn‘t have any appreciable effect on production development, 
competitiveness and export potential. According to calculations, in the EU countries the total 
share of innovative products was in excess of 60%, and in some industries even higher. 
Ratio of total sales by innovative and non-innovative companies in Russia is 48.2 and 
51.8%. Compared with the EU domestic innovative enterprises are ahead only of Bulgaria 
(39.7%); their figure is twice lower than Germany‘s which is the leader at 91.3%. Thus despite 
all efforts the overall efficiency of Russian industrial companies‘ innovation activities remains 
low. This is confirmed by dynamics of innovative products‘ output: in 1995-2007: the absolute 
figure increased only by 77% while innovation-related expenditures during the same period grew 
more than twice. Accordingly, the return on investment dropped from 5.5 to 4.4 roubles per 
rouble spent on technological innovations (see Appendix II, 21).  
Low efficiency of innovation activities significantly weakens competitiveness of 
Russian producers on international markets. Most of their export is made by products which 
haven‘t been subjected to technological change. Export of innovative products (services) in 2007 
was estimated at 276.3 billion roubles; despite significant growth in the last two years, the share 
of such products (services) in the total export of industrial enterprises amounted to just 7.9% (see 
table 21). The actual value of this indicator exceeded the target figure set in the Strategy. The 
discrepancy is due to  increased exports of high-level medium-technology industries, primarily 
chemicals (21.6% against 16.2% in 2006), and mining (except fuel and energy resources) (6.0%). 
The domestic market demonstrates a decline of interest to innovative products, caused 
among other factors by growing inflation, growing internal commodity prices and highly 
competitive foreign-made analogues. The share of innovative products and services in the total 
domestic sales amounted to just 3.8% - almost 1.5 times less than in 2005. Companies‘ demand 
232 
 
sources (non-budget foundations, foreign investors, venture funds) amount to 0.04 – 0.3% of the 
total. Foreign investments (0.6 billion roubles) mostly go into food production (47.6%) and 
manufacturing of cars, trailers and semitrailers (31.2% of the total). Venture investments into 
innovation projects by large and medium enterprises in 2007 amounted to 76.2 million roubles 
(0.04% of the total expenditures on technological innovations), and were made in the only sector 
- non-metal mineral products. 
Breakdown of expenditures by type of innovation activity reveals serious misbalance 
against investments in knowledge and human capital. Most of the funds are spent on acquisition 
of machinery and equipment (57.5%). Then (with manifold gap) come expenditures on R&D 
(17.3%) and industrial designs (7.0%). Expenditures on acquiring patent licenses (0.8%), staff 
training and retraining (0.5%), marketing research (0.3%) also can hardly be considered 
sufficient. On top of that, during the recent years there was a steady trend to increase investments 
in machinery and equipment (by 3.3 times in constant prices in 1995–2007), and reduce R&D 
expenditure. 
International comparison reveals quite different proportions between types of 
innovation activities. In most of the economically developed European countries R&D 
expenditure are 1.5 - 2 times (or even more) higher than investments in machinery and 
equipment. E.g. in France this ratio is 9:1, in Denmark and Norway 5:1. In some Eastern 
European countries - like in Russia - it‘s shifted towards machinery and equipment expenditures: 
in Bulgaria (8 and 89%), Slovenia (10 and 89%), Poland (10 and 86%). 
Innovation activities in the EU countries are performed on a different, more advanced 
technological basis. Enterprises strive to increase the novelty level of innovations and their 
competitiveness, so they invest in R&D - which are mostly conducted in-house. On the other 
hand, in Russia innovation activities primarily amount to modernisation of active capital assets. 
This situation has an overall negative effect on the whole innovation process, leading to 
degradation of industrial S&T potential, poorer quality and low novelty of innovative products 
and services. Enterprises are losing ability to innovate and, accordingly, are becoming less 
competitive on the markets of new high-tech products.  
  
234 
 
Taiwan. 
Since January 2002, when Taiwan joined the WTO, the economic environment has 
become more liberalized, making Taiwan a part of the global industrialized system. The 
government has disclosed its intention to build Taiwan into a Green Silicon Island, revealing its 
vision for national development in the new century. It has also continued to promote its Global 
Logistic Development Plan, Knowledge-based Economic Development Proposal, Plan to 
Stimulate Conventional Industries, its Concrete Action Plan for the Implementation of 
Resolutions reached at the National Economic Development Conference and its Challenge for 
2008: Focal Plan for National Development. The 2008 Challenge Plan includes the promotion of 
innovation-oriented industrial policy, the creation of R&D centers in Taiwan by foreign 
corporations, the setting up in Taiwan of local innovation and incubation centers for SMEs, the 
establishment of incubation centers in various parts of the country. The ultimate objective of all 
these projects is to create an environment toward a high value-added industrial era featured by 
innovation, invention, and R&D. 
However, it would be extremely difficult for Russia (as well as for many other 
countries) to "turn the tables" and achieve a large-scale expansion on the global high-tech 
markets. Today most experts stress ambiguous, even contradictory nature of relationship between 
the global economy and the global science
72
. 
Firstly, all characteristics of S&T (innovative) development are changing. Products' life 
cycle gets shorter while R&D costs are growing; enterprise sector R&D get increasingly 
international and specialised in nature; integration channels get wider and provide increasingly 
more new knowledge and technologies; open innovation models are developing; concentration of 
S&T activities is accompanied by their decentralisation by regions, scientific "poles" etc. 
Secondly, major shifts are taking place in the structure of factors which have 
traditionally affected countries' competitiveness and their positions on the global markets 
(diminishing importance of cheap raw materials, growing role of education etc.). 
Thirdly, ability to use science and technology to boost economic and social 
development, justify government investments in this sector (including support of borrowing 
technologies and high-tech products) is becoming increasingly more important. 
Due to these and other factors, to integrate into the international system is becoming 
increasingly hard to all countries including new players (e.g. Taiwan) which try to compete with 
the established S&T leaders. Obviously, in such a situation, demand for international comparison 
(see Box 3) doesn't simply grow: users' needs and requirements for results of such studies change. 
Today curious statistical or sociological data which can enliven any report, project or programme 
simply isn't enough. Expectations from such research are mainly determined by the need to have 
realistic and reliable data on specific countries' achievements in the science and innovation 
sphere (in this case Russia and Taiwan)
73
, availability of resources, the place in the global S&T 
                                                 
72
 Sources: [Gokhberg, 2002, pp. 24–26; Chesbrough, 2003; Chesbrough, 2006]. 
73
 In most cases – real or potential competition on the global arena. 
236 
 
different funding mechanisms can be used, including budget appropriations, credits and loans, 
targeted funding, public, private or joint investments in R&D and innovative projects, etc. The 
section below describes the most important Russian funding instruments. 
 
2.1.1. Budget funding of R&D 
The federal budget is the main funding source for Russian R&D, and remained such 
during the whole post-Soviet period. Regardless of the absolute budget appropriations, the share 
of budget funding remains more or less constant - at about 60% of GERD. 
Note that by law public budget funds can be used to finance only services provided in 
the interest of the whole society, or to support public structures and organisations created for the 
same purposes. 
There are two forms of budget funding of R&D work: basic funding (funds are 
allocated as a specific budget article) and grants. With basic funding money is provided to 
specific R&D organisations based on the number of their staff and last year‘s level of 
expenditures. 
R&D expenditure amounts to at least 95% of total public expenditures on S&T; the 
remaining 3–5% of GERD are invested in capital assets. 
Programme funding can be tender-based or allocated to specific organisations to 
implement specific projects. Such funds are provided through government programmes of 
various levels. Usually the programme mechanism is used to finance projects aimed at solving 
specific (mostly major) S&T problems (e.g. in airspace industry, nuclear physics, aircraft 
construction etc.). 
An important tool for dealing with priority national objectives - and a mechanism for 
public funding of R&D work - is Federal Goal-Oriented Programmes (FGP). In the 1990s the 
number of FGPs was exceedingly large: between 96 and 155 such programmes were financed 
out of the government budget. As a result, the burden on the budget became too much and, 
accordingly, budget money - albeit allocated - routinely was not actually paid. The problem was 
made even worse by equally frequent failures to receive funds due from other, non-budgetary 
sources. The first victims of that lack of funds were R&D projects. Introduction (in 1996) of 
officially approved lists of priority S&T areas and crucial technologies had practically no effect 
on existing approaches to composing S&T sections of FGPs. All it actually amounted to was 
identifying such priority areas in S&T sections of existing FGPs. 
Due to all of the above reasons, R&D provided for in FGPs were only loosely related 
to the programmes‘ goals and objectives. Some FGPs supported R&D projects whose 
contribution to the programmes‘ ultimate goals was far from obvious. In 2004 the framework of 
FGPs was radically reconsidered; the total number of these programmes was significantly 
reduced, and by 2005 only 54 FGPs were funded out of the government budget. This 
restructuring was continued in 2006. Currently 52 FGPs are being implemented. Essentially, 
238 
 
for the general public and the RF Government, makes relevant suggestions. The foundation‘s 
analytical materials are in public domain, divided into three categories: innovation activities, 
intellectual property and venture financing. The foundation also holds regular tenders to finance 
applied research projects within the framework of its own programmes. 
The above foundations have many functions and responsibilities in the area of R&D, 
S&T and innovation activities. FASIE, the Russian Foundation for Technological Development 
(RFTD) and industrial non-budgetary foundations for funding R&D established by federal 
executive authorities and commercial organisations support a whole host of projects to promote 
innovation activities and commercialisation of technologies. FASIE provides financial support to 
small innovative enterprises (SIE) which pursue projects to develop and manufacture new 
research-intensive products and technologies based on own intellectual property (the main tender 
organised by the foundation); supports innovative projects during their early stages (START 
programme); helps to set up SIEs to apply own R&D results. 430 SIEs were established in 2004 
in the scope of this programme. The TEMP programme helps SIEs to make licensing agreements 
for intellectual property owned by state R&D organisations. RFTD provides support to research 
organisations and innovative enterprises at all stages of the applied research - prototype - pilot 
production cycle. 
The bulk of government budget allocations to R&D organisations comes in the form of 
basic funding. It‘s provided through the system of ministries and departments administering 
research and higher education institutions.  The other two forms of budget funding account for 
about 30% of the total budget appropriations. Programme funding had reached its peak in 2000 
at 24,9%, and then its share started to decline. However by 2007, when the new budgeting 
principles were adopted, the programmes‘ share of funding was radically increased. 
 
2.1.2. Support of R&D and S&T activities provided by non-government and 
international foundations 
The law ―On science and state S&T policy‖ allows other public, private and 
international foundations to support R&D and/or S&T activities. 
One such foundation is Innovation Support Foundation created in 2002 by 
Bashkortostan Cabinet of Ministers as a non-profit organisation. 
The law also provides for establishment of non-budgetary industrial and inter-industry 
foundations not registered as legal entities, to finance R&D work. Such foundations can be 
created by federal executive agencies or commercial organisations. 
One of the first such foundations was non-budgetary Russian Foundation for 
Technological Development of the RF Ministry of Science, Higher Education and Technology 
Policy, created in 1992. The foundation was financed through voluntary contributions by 
government ministries, departments, concerns, corporations and associations which could 
contribute 25% of their own non-budgetary funds earmarked for financing R&D work and 
240 
 
Obviously, the planned revenues to the amount of five times the public investment 
didn‘t happen. The board which selected mega-projects for funding hasn‘t been able to resist 
lobbying, and the adopted funding scheme created certain problems which arose when volume 
and types of R&D work were being agreed. Government funds are allocated to research or 
higher education institutions - partners of industrial enterprises. On the other hand, 
commercialisation of the generated R&D results is the responsibility of the enterprise. In reality 
it turned out that such a scheme makes it rather hard to match the interests of the business and 
the R&D potential (or interests) of the research institution. Apparently even innovation-oriented 
enterprises see cooperation with state-owned research institutions as an additional risk factor. 
But there was a positive experience too: during implementation of some of the 
mega-projects management and monitoring functions were outsourced, and this approach 
brought good results. External management allowed to monitor the work in a more neutral way 
and quickly react when there was need to make necessary adjustments. 
Note that the PPP mechanism can be used only in certain situations, since such 
partnerships are not specifically provided for in the legal framework. Russian laws (including the 
federal law ―On science and state S&T policy‖) have no mention of cooperative agreements to 
conduct R&D work. 
International experience shows that when public funds are allocated to finance applied 
R&D through a PPP, the subject area is always taken into account. Projects selected for funding 
always must have a high social potential. When the mega-projects were selected in Russia, their 
subject areas and social importance didn‘t play a particularly important role. 
Since one of the major selection criteria was significant growth of product sales within 
a short period of time, in some cases projects were selected for funding though they were aimed 
at dealing with small technical problems not on the mega-project level at all - exactly because 
they guaranteed rapid growth of sales. When new mega-projects are selected it would make 
sense to shift the accent to supporting basic technologies. Also, in the course of mega-projects‘ 
implementation the possibility to provide public funding for R&D work not to research 
institutions but to private enterprises should be considered, on condition they contract 
state-owned research and higher education institutes to perform the relevant R&D. This might 
help to balance the private sector‘s demand for and the public R&D sector‘s supply of R&D 
products. As long as public sector research organisations are largely oriented towards public 
funding, their interest to public-private partnerships will not be high. But if the customer role is 
taken from the state and given to private business, it would contribute to ―soft‖ adjustment of the 
state R&D sector to the needs of the market economy. 
 
2.1.4. Venture financing 
There are more than 40 venture funds in Russia, investing into innovative projects; 
however, only about 1% of all venture funding is spent directly on development of high 
242 
 
the rate). Creditors also demand that all project-related operations must be transparent, though 
they promise not to interfere with the project management. 
Credit organisations do not see themselves as venture capitalists investing in R&D and 
innovations. Creditors do not take any risks associated with the projects; still, that kind of 
scheme is available for funding innovative projects. 
Orientation towards the borrower in such cases implies that their assets and reputation 
must match the creditor‘s requirements. Lack of financial transparency and the ambiguous 
taxation rules have negative effect on companies‘ dealings with investors, especially foreign ones. 
Attracting all possible funding sources to finance innovative technology projects would require 
improved financial accounting, preferably in line with international standards. 
Financial organisations may consider yet another project funding scheme - project 
financing. Pay-off and returns on investment are received out of profits generated through sales 
of products/services created in the course of the project. The main difference between project 
financing and investment credits is that in the former case the project serves as the primary loan 
security. Calculating interest rates and repayment schedule of the loan, creditors pay particular 
attention to expected project returns. The term ―project financing‖ is understood differently in 
various countries. E.g. in the OECD countries project financing means providing investment 
resources to companies, when money for servicing the loan is taken out of the company‘s regular 
cash flow while ―access to the company‘s assets‖ serves as loan security. 
Project‘s characteristics, participants, partners and guarantors, distribution of associated 
risks become particularly important considerations if the project financing scheme is used. The 
level of project-related risks defines potential investors‘ willingness to provide funding. 
Accordingly, in case of innovative projects the project financing scheme has certain limitations. 
Unlike venture capital which can be attracted at any stage of S&T activates, creditors who 
consider project financing will not take that high a risk - since the money invested in the project 
will be repaid only if the project is completed successfully. 
 
2.1.5. Indirect financing 
Tax legislation is a very powerful tool to encourage any activities, including R&D and 
innovations. 
In Russia, after a relatively favourable period for organisations acting in this sphere, 
approval of Part 2 of the RF Tax Code has significantly increased the tax burden they bear. 
Specifically, reversal of the RF law ―On value-added tax‖ eliminated VAT breaks for imported 
machinery and equipment intended for R&D, for patent and licensing operations involving 
industrial property, etc. Negative effect of these developments on R&D activities, including 
cooperation with foreign partners (and international organisations, foundations etc.) became 
immediately apparent. 
Let‘s take a closer look at development of the Russian system for indirect 
244 
 
 all R&D; 
 sale of scientific and training printed materials, periodic publications of 
scientific and educational nature, and relevant services. 
3. In article 150 of the RF Tax Code, import of technological equipment, 
components and spare parts and import of printed materials of scientific and 
educational nature should be exempted from VAT. 
4. Patent and licensing operations (except brokerage) connected with industrial 
property (excluding trade marks and service marks) should be exempted from 
VAT. 
Personal income tax. An important condition of development of Russian R&D and 
increasing efficiency of government policy aimed at increasing and preserving Russia's 
intellectual potential is improving well-being of scientists and ensuring their income remains 
stable in an unstable market economy. One way to achieve this is to exempt certain kinds of 
personal income from income tax. Another way is to introduce income deductions to reduce 
taxpayer's total taxable revenue. 
Since researchers often bear no significant R&D costs, it seems that in Russia it would 
be more efficient to put the accent on tax benefits for appropriate groups of people. 
Accordingly, the following amendments to the RF Tax Code to exempt individuals' 
income from taxation could be implemented: 
 
- income earned through R&D contracts with individuals named as contractors; 
- income earned through licensing contracts transferring exclusive right to use 
industrial property objects; 
- income received from employer as fee for creation of industrial property; 
- fees for scientific, educational and training publications; 
- income earned through all grants, including the ones made available to public and 
private R&D support foundations. 
 
Profit tax for organisations. Measures aimed at tax motivation of R&D and 
innovation activity and activities of organisations to promote this work play an important role in 
development of the S&T sector. However, the current state of laws on taxation of organisations is 
unsatisfactory from the point of view of supporting R&D and innovation activity. 
To improve the situation in the near future, it would be reasonable to make the 
following changes to the Tax Code, to introduce preferential taxation of profits: 
- received by organisations through innovation activities; 
- received by banks through crediting start-up innovation companies; 
246 
 
of property are exempt from tax: 
- property of state-owned research centres; 
- property of state academies of science. 
To encourage R&D activity by organisations, it would be reasonable to exempt from 
tax their property used to conduct R&D and experimental work. It would also make sense to 
exempt machinery, equipment etc. received by these organisations for testing and experimental 
purposes, or given to them for free according to R&D contracts. 
Land tax. According to tax laws, R&D organisations owned by academies of science 
were exempted from land tax on the land occupied by buildings used for R&D work. 
However, this tax break was cancelled as of January 1, 2006. It should be amended and 
restored to apply to all land owned by all R&D organisations and used for R&D purposes. 
Special taxation mechanisms 
Simplified taxation. Simplified taxation rules apply to small enterprises. The 
maximum revenues that allow organisation to use simplified taxation rules established by the 
current legislation, do not allow applying this taxation regime to venture companies set up 
specifically for innovation activities. In order to make creation of venture companies and 
investing in their operations more attractive, they should be allowed to choose which taxation 
system they'd use. 
Also, it would make sense to amend the law in such a way that R&D expenditures and 
the costs of patenting R&D products could be included in the list of expenditures subject to 
simplified taxation 
In 2006 another tax break for intellectual property was added: taxpayer‘s expenditures 
on R&D for creation of new or improvement of existing products, including expenditures 
connected with inventions; payments made to the Russian Technological Development 
Foundation and other industrial and inter-industry foundations for financing R&D work 
registered according to provisions of the RF law ―On science and state S&T policy‖, were 
counted as ―other expenditures‖ for 2 years (for research which generated positive results) or for 
3 years (for research which didn‘t generate positive results). 
Also, depreciation costs included original cost of depreciated intangible assets 
calculated as actual expenditures to acquire (create) them and turning them into usable state, 
except VAT and excise duty. 
Costs of intangible assets created by the organisation was defined as actual 
expenditures on their creation (manufacturing), including personnel costs, outsourcing and 
contracting costs, patent duties, and excluding taxes paid in the course of the above expenditures. 
Intangible assets to be included in depreciation costs (concerning the subject in 
question) comprised (exclusive rights to) intellectual property acquired (created) by the taxpayer, 
248 
 
reduction), as well as on their integrated approach (producers - consumers of R&D results and 
new technologies; R&D and educational organisations - their funding sources; innovators - 
investors into innovation activities, staff training etc.). 
250 
 
2.3. Role of financial system in the National Innovation System 
Like in other developed countries, the main source of innovation investments in 
Russia is own funds of organisations - which is natural for a market economy. If in the structure 
of internal R&D expenditures the share of industrial enterprises‘ funds amounts to about 30%, 
in the breakdown of expenditures on technological innovations this figure rises to 86%. 
However, this high (compared to other countries) value in Russia is explained not so much by 
market economy ―laws‖ or abundance of companies‘ capital as by unavailability (due to various 
reasons) of other funding sources which should be present in a developed market economy. 
Let‘s take a look at some of these barriers. 
Foreign sources play a minor role in funding R&D and innovation activities. 
Compared with the 1990s figures, their share has even dropped from 7% to 2.3% of GERD. 
Credits and loans market for investing in innovation activities and innovative projects 
is limited. Access to credit is possible but only to companies with established business 
reputation and serious assets which can be used as securities. The cost of credit (in most cases 
provided only for a short term) is quite high. 
Apart from subsidies and credits, funds for innovative projects can be attracted by 
increasing authorised capital of the organisation which holds the main responsibility for the 
project. Increasing authorised capital (or capital stock) is an attractive option because it doesn‘t 
involve the burdens of assuming credit-related obligations. The price (dividends on additionally 
issued shares etc.) can be adjusted according to financial situation. Shareholders may decide to 
reinvest the profits into further development of production. However, using this funding source 
one should take into account the interests of the new shareholders, their influence on the project 
implementation and the possibility they may assume a certain degree of control. 
The main limitations hindering the use of the above scheme are high interest rates and 
the need to provide loan security. In a situation when credit-related risks are brought to the 
minimum it‘s hard to expect that financial organisations would opt for other investment 
opportunities. That‘s why in our opinion venture funding in Russia did not live up to 
expectations. The advantage of this approach - shareholder status - doesn‘t look very attractive to 
most of the financial market players, compared with the significant benefits of providing 
low-risk loans. 
Innovative projects can find funding if they promise to produce products (technologies) 
already in demand on the market. I.e. we‘re talking exclusively about improved products and 
processes expected by the market. In that case the creditor is willing to accept some of the risk. 
So to general-profile financial institutions, crediting innovative projects aimed at development 
and implementation of new products and technologies seems unreasonable. 
Another way to widen funding opportunities for innovative projects is by attracting 
sponsors. Russian law allows providing state guaranties to participants of innovation activities 
for investment credits made available by Russian or foreign financial organisations. The state can 
act as a source of guaranteed investments into more important projects, where project financing 
252 
 
up to 15 venture funds and 150 innovative companies.  
The resources for the Russian Venture Company capital will be allocated from the 
Russian Federation Investment Fund - up to 5 billion roubles in 2006 and 10 billion in 2007 (the 
total of 15 billion roubles). 
In any country activity level of venture investors directly depends on efficiency and 
consistency of government policy. In Russia the government does not provide full and regular 
support to creation of intellectual products even at the early stages of this process, and does not 
develop efficient institutional infrastructure for innovation activities. Accordingly, it would seem 
logical to provide various motivation for private investors to take part in innovative projects at 
just such stages - i.e. involve them at the development, start-up and ―early expansion‖ stage. This 
approach would be efficient not just in terms of widening the range of available funding sources 
but for balanced development of Russian venture funding business. 
Despite the growing number of industrial parks and innovation technology centres in 
Russia, the number of small innovative enterprises is not increasing. Experts believe that the 
main reason is lack of infrastructure which would support such small companies at the start-up 
and early development stage. 
To summarise, the following problems with venture funding are hindering its 
development in Russia: 
- government participation in venture funding schemes for high-tech companies 
remains unregulated by Russian legislation; 
- existing infrastructure to support venture funding remains weak and cannot 
perform its main function - encourage emergence of new and development of 
existing small innovative companies and R&D organisations; 
- insufficient participation of venture capital; 
- insufficient development of stock market makes it difficult to venture funds to 
leave the organisations they‘ve financed, and also hinders re-financing; 
- development of legislation to regulate creation and activities of venture funds 
goes quite slowly; 
- the problem of providing support to new innovative companies at the start-up and 
early development stages remains unresolved. 
As to research and innovation support foundations, small size of grants they provide 
determines the modest level of the projects they finance, and forces the scientists to pursue 
insignificant, easily reachable objectives. 
The foundations‘ activities mostly amounted to increasing the number of programmes. 
254 
 
advancement; but it‘s not sufficient in itself. Due to many unresolved issues the law still does not 
function properly. No concession agreements were concluded in 2005-2006. In the institutional 
sphere, the Investment Fund of the Russian Federation, Russian Venture Company and special 
economic zones were created. Now companies planning large-scale investment projects have a 
possibility to obtain government support through a range of PPP tools at the federal and regional 
levels.  
One of the main obstacles hindering PPP development in Russia is absence of an 
integrated governance system.  
Other major problems in this area include the following: 
1. Lack of an integrated approach. There‘s no systematic work on developing PPP in 
the country which would cover legal, economic and social aspects and specific 
issues of the mechanism for establishing and regulating public-private partnerships. 
Note that the problem here is not about one or several laws; it‘s a complex, 
institutional problem and it must be dealt with through a systematic approach. 
2. Lack of a coordinating and supervising body. Currently a lot of various organisations 
participate in drafting PPP-related legislation: legislative bodies‘ committees, 
ministries and federal services, research institutes, foundations, private individuals. 
All of them develop draft laws based on their own ideas about PPP, without any 
common conceptual ground. 
Further development of legal framework to increase the role of financial system in 
advancement of the national innovation system should include drafting and passing of the 
following laws: 
1."On Government Support of Innovation Activity". This law should define the 
comprehensive, cross-sector nature of innovation activity; the need for all executive 
authorities to take part in encouraging and regulation of innovation activity; 
establish specific and targeted measures to support innovation activity. This law 
would not serve as a universal legal act in the innovation activities area; it is not 
likely that such a universal law could ever be created at all. The law would establish 
specific forms of government support to innovation activity, and clear instructions 
for federal executive agencies (both in terms of steps to be taken and the 
timeframes), regarding drafting and approving regulations aimed at providing 
appropriate support to innovation activity. 
2. "On Government Financial Support of R&D and Innovation Activity", to establish 
procedures for government funding of innovative projects; and other bills to improve 
other forms of government financial support of R&D and innovation activities. 
3. "On Venture Funding", to regulate creation and activities of venture companies. 
 
In addition to the above, legislation that does not specifically deal with innovation 
activities but could promote their development, should also be improved and amended. The most 
256 
 
2.4. Conclusions and policy suggestions to improve financing of innovation 
activities in Russia 
In the situation of global economic crisis the Russian economy has to deal with two 
problems at the same time: minimise the negative effects of the crisis and create potential for 
future post-crisis development. Note that innovative socially-oriented economy was chosen as 
the model for this future post-crisis development. The appropriate goal is formulated in the 
Concept for Russia‘s Long-Term Socio-Economic Development until 2020. 
The most important characteristics of innovative socially-oriented economy model 
include a high level of innovation activities by all economic actors, ongoing development and 
implementation of new technologies and products, a big share of high-tech sectors in the GDP 
and exports, and some other indicators. 
To build such a model, a system of measures must be implemented, aimed at 
encouraging investments into innovations, technological upgrade and implementation of 
innovative products and solutions in all sectors of economy and areas of social life. The above 
measures must include both general system-wide steps aimed at long-term development of the 
national innovation system, and specific steps tailored to the current crisis situation. 
Possible ways to increase the level of industry‘s innovation activities, promote 
technological modernisation of the economy can be grouped into three major blocks: 
Measures aimed at launching technological modernisation 
Keeping in mind that technological basis of Russian industrial production has been 
degrading for many years and its overall technological level remains low, we believe launching 
technological modernisation as quickly as possible would be of key importance. During the crisis 
and post-crisis recovery the government should carefully select the priority areas for 
technological shifts and ensure flexible comprehensive support on a network basis. 
Potentially efficient steps include the following: 
- Increasing innovative orientation of government procurement, procurement by 
―natural monopolies‖, state-owned corporations and large state-controlled companies; 
initiating programmes for technological modernisation of public sector organisations 
(including the social sphere - health care, education, culture etc.). The point is to 
radically change the underlying ideology of government and public sector 
procurement. Government procurement must be seen not just as means to deal with 
specific issues but as an important tool of industrial and innovation policy. In 
particular, to contribute to technological modernisation the accent should be placed 
on programmes and projects whose implementation involves either procurement of 
high-tech products and services from Russian producers (certainly of adequate 
quality), or technological modernisation of specific enterprises or industries. Special 
258 
 
The second block of proposals includes measures aimed at improving institutional 
environment and framework for innovative business - elimination of excessive administrative, 
legal and other obstacles, creation of advanced efficient market institutes and competitive 
environment, encouraging demand for innovations by various economic players. 
The following areas to concentrate efforts in are suggested: 
- increasing the range of tax breaks (tax vacations) for companies 
participating in innovation activities and technological modernisation, including new 
high-tech businesses; for companies conducting R&D at their own cost and acquiring 
technologies in the course of government-initiated programmes and projects; for 
financial organisations crediting innovation activities; 
- improving tax administration concerning application of existing tax breaks 
and preferences for R&D and innovation activities, to provide better conditions for 
economic actors involved in innovation activities. 
Public funds should be used to finance the following: 
- funding of major innovative projects whose objectives were set taking into account 
business interests and the results of national technological foresight analysis. 
Specifically, public funds should be used to secure successful launch of such projects; 
- introduction of grants (subsidies, compensation systems etc.) for enterprises who 
develop, design and implement new innovative products; 
- introduction of targeted subventions paid out of the federal and regional budgets to 
organisations, implementing major innovative programmes (projects) which form 
regional innovation clusters; 
- support of industrial technological projects provided the bulk of their funding 
comes from private investors, and public funds are used exclusively to reduce 
financial risks; 
- promote participation of Russian enterprises and organisations in international 
initiatives, projects, alliances in the R&D, S&T and innovation sphere, including 
elimination of existing administrative, legal, customs and other barriers hindering 
Russia‘s integration into international R&D and innovation cooperation; 
- promoting internal consumption of domestic innovative products and services 
including a system for providing government support to acquire expensive durable 
consumer goods made in Russia (e.g. subsidising credit interest rates); 
260 
 
VAT on packaged software should be cancelled. Appropriate changes to tax laws are also needed 
to prevent increased tax pressure (due to cancellation of the unified social tax and introduction of 
insurance premium) on companies which enjoyed unified social tax breaks as residents of 
technology implementation zones and special economic zones. 
The third task is to encourage technological modernisation of enterprises and increase 
the level of their innovation activities by exempting them from property tax during the first year 
after installation of new energy-efficient equipment. For the same purpose, the list of R&D 
approved by the RF Government regulation of December 24, 2008 (according to which 
taxpayers‘ expenditures on specific R&D were counted as ―other expenditures‖ at the actual 
amount multiplied by 1.5) should be extended, to include production technologies widely used 
by Russian industries. 
Procedures for paying land tax and property tax for state educational and R&D 
organisations also should be amended. 
For private high-tech medium-sized and small firms with limited own resources 
(especially in the crisis situation) procedures for providing public grants (subsidies) should be 
adopted, to finance their innovation activities in priority areas including R&D, design and 
development of new innovative industrial products; to compensate expenditures on engineering 
services and international patenting costs. 
Supporting establishment of new innovative businesses should first of all include a 
wider range of support mechanisms for innovative companies at early stages of their operations, 
promoting creation of innovative firms on the basis of leading R&D and educational institutes; 
providing opportunities for accelerated commercialisation of intellectual property owned by the 
state, created before Section 4 of the RF Civil Code became effective. 
To provide additional financial support to innovative companies at early stages of their 
development, a number of seed funds should be created, with participation of the Russian 
Venture Company and Rusnano. Proposals for launching operations of Rosinfocominvest also 
should be prepared. 
Direct support to creation of small innovative companies on the basis of leading R&D 
and educational institutions, including with participation of students and post-graduates, should 
be provided through new programmes administered by FASIE. Establishment of business 
incubators for students should also be considered - these would provide employment 
opportunities for young professionals in the crisis situation. The above support measures might 
also be implemented in the framework of small and medium-size entrepreneurship support 
programme. 
Also, to extend opportunities for securing long-term funding for research-intensive 
projects from Vnesheconombank, procedures for regular evaluation of projects requiring funding 
of at least 1 billion roubles per year by the bank‘s supervisory board should be developed - for 
projects undertaken by Russian high-tech companies in priority sectors and industries. 
To increase the level of enterprises‘ innovation activities, laws regulating venture funding 
262 
 
state-owned autonomous non-profit organisations); 
- confiscation of surplus, unused or inappropriately used property (including land). 
Obviously this measure must be applied very carefully. Confiscation procedures are 
mentioned in valid legislation but the exact steps to be taken should be described in 
more detail, taking into account specific aspects of R&D, S&T and innovation 
activities. 
Financial resources and public property saved through the above steps should be 
channelled exclusively to advance the R&D sector - for acquisition of machinery and equipment, 
development of human resources (salaries, staff training and retraining); attracting young talent 
(including graduates of higher education institutions). The money may also be used to set up a 
special national fund to invest into development of R&D and higher professional education. 
Secondly, cooperation between the R&D and industrial production sectors must be 
promoted, and state R&D organisations must have wider opportunities to participate in 
innovation activities. Note that it‘s not just about creating small innovative companies (spin-off 
firms) or technology transfer centres; equally important is creating favourable conditions for 
commercialisation of intellectual property generated through use of public money; establishing 
and developing stable alliances between R&D organisations and businesses; participating in 
targeted investment foundations; widening the range of available funding sources. 
Another suggestion is to consider opportunities for improving the laws regulating 
activities of FASIE - widening the scope and scale of its operations. Of particular importance is 
providing support to innovative entrepreneurship, specifically supporting highly skilled 
professionals laid off due to cutbacks, with the help of micro-financing and micro-crediting tools. 
This is especially relevant in the crisis situation and during the post-crisis period (and steps 
should be taken to get ready for it well in advance). Also, favourable conditions for other public 
R&D support foundations should be created, as well as for inter-industry non-budgetary 
foundations which finance R&D, prototype design work etc. 
Thirdly, a whole range of measures to support and develop human potential of 
innovation-based economy might prove to be of key importance, including the following: 
- development and implementation of a programme to support internal mobility of 
highly skilled personnel, primarily young researchers and engineers (including 
training opportunities for young g researchers at industrial enterprises); 
- elimination of excessive administrative barriers (e.g. limitations on joint use of 
property by R&D and educational organisations), hindering integration of science, 
higher professional education and business regardless of legal and property status of 
the parties; 
- creation of a business incubator network attached to higher education institutions. 
264 
 
References 
 
1. «Basic civil law institutes in foreign countries». Comparative legal study. M., «Norma», 
2000. 
2. «Basic directions of the Russian Federation's policy on R&D development until 2010 and 
subsequent period », RF State Law, 30.03. 2002. 
3. «Education in the Russian Federation». Statistical data book. RF Ministry of Education 
and Science, Federal Statistics Service, Higher School of Economics, 2005. 
4. «R&D and Innovation Development Strategy in the Russian Federation until 2015 ». RF 
State Law. Approved by Interdepartmental commission on R&D and innovation policy 
on 15.02. 2006 (protocol # 1). 
5. «Restructuring of the Public Sector: the Ways to Increase Efficiency ». International 
conference materials. St. Petersburg, 2005 . OPEC.RU web-site. 
6. «The steps to be taken to increase efficiency of federal property management » Materials 
for the RF government meeting (17 March 2005). 
7. Aksnes D. Characteristics of highly cited papers // Research Evaluation. 2003. Vol. 12, 
No. 3. P. 159–170. 
8. Aksnes D. Citations and their use as indicators in science policy. Studies of validity and 
applicability issues with a particular focus on highly cited papers. Dissertation for the 
doctoral degree. University of Twente, 2005. 
http://english.nifustep.no/content/download/9553/62210/file/Aksnes-PHD-thesis.pdf. 
9. Aksnes D., Sivertsen G. The effect of highly cited papers on national citation indicators // 
Scientometrics. 2004. Vol. 59, No. 2. P. 213–224. 
10. Borgman C. L., Furner J. Scholarly communication and bibliometrics // Annual Review 
of Information Science and Technology. 2002. Vol. 36. P. 3–72. 
11. Braun T., Glänzel W., Schubert A. The newest version of the facts and figures on 
publication output and relative citation impact of 100 countries 1981–1985 // 
Scientometrics. 1988. Vol. 13, No. 5–6. P. 181–188. 
12. Chepurenko, A., Gokhberg, L. Scientific Elite Reproduction in Russia: Role of the 
Foreign Scientific Foundations (Humboldt Foundation Case). Moscow, RIISNP, 2005. 
13. Civil Code of Russian Federation. Part 4. 
14. Commercialization and market formation in developing  societies, 1993; Kyambalesa, 
1993.; Lee,1993 
266 
 
31. III (2009). Information Industry Yearbook (2009). Published by Market Intelligence & 
Consulting Institute, Institute for Information Industry 
32. Lai, Koe-Shan (2006). Sixty Years of Successful Education to Be Enhanced by Its Elites 
after Fifty Years, retrieved on April 7, 2010 from 
http://elearning.ch.ntnu.edu.tw/ntnu-web/history/images/historylist1.pdf 
33. Leonid Gokhberg, Galina Sagieva.  Science of Russia: Bibliometrical Indicators 
//Foresight. – 2007 - №1 (1). - P. 44-53. 
34. Leonid Gokhberg.  Statistics of Science. – M.: ТЕIS, 2003. – 478 p. 
35. Lin, Cheng-Jong (2001). The Modernization of Taiwan, retrieved on April 7, 2010 from 
http://www.twhistory.org.tw/20010312.htm 
36. Moed H. F. Bibliometric measurement of research performance and Price's theory of 
differences among the sciences // Scientometrics. 1989. Vol. 15, Iss. 5–6. P. 473–483. 
37. Moed H. F. Citation Analysis in Research Evaluation. Dordrecht: Springer, 2005. 
38. National Cheng-Kung University (2010), Brief History, retrieved on April 7, 2010 from 
http://english.web.ncku.edu.tw/files/11-1005-333-1.php 
39. National Science Board. Science and Engineering Indicators 2006. Vol. 1–2. Arlington, 
VA: National Science Foundation, 2006. 
40. National Science Board. Science and Engineering Indicators 2008. Vol. 1–2. Arlington, 
VA: National Science Foundation, 2008. 
41. National Science Board. Science and Engineering Indicators: 1991, Washington, DC. 
42. National Taiwan University (2010), About NTU, retrieved on April 7, 2010 from 
http://www.ntu.edu.tw/english/about/about.html 
43. NSC (2007). White Paper on Science and Technology (2007–2010). Published by 
National Science Council, January 17, 2007 
44. NSC (2010). Indicators of Science and Technology 2009. Taipei, Taiwan. Retrieved on 
April 7, 2010 from http://www.nsc.gov.tw/tech/ 
45. OECD. Science, Technology and innovation policies: Federation of Russia, Vol. II. Paris, 
France. 1994. 
46. Ou-Yang, Cheng-Sin, et al. (2008). Progression of Taiwan‘s Economic Development - A 
Graphical Illustration. Published by Chung-Hua Institution for Economic Research, June 
2008. 
47. Ozerova N.B. «Restructuring the budget sector. Reasons, principles, directions. Financial 
monitoring of the budget sphere ». Financial Monitoring, №2, 2004. 
268 
 
Appendix I – Chronicle of Taiwan’s S&T Development 
Policies 
 
 
 
Extracted and modified from: 
Progression of Taiwan‘s Economic Development - A Graphical Illustration. 
Project report by Ou-Yang Cheng-Sin, et al. June 2008, Published by Chung-Hua Institution for 
Economic Research 
270 
 
1997 ―Industrial Technology Development Program‖ Implemented 
1999 First ―Software Park‖ Set Up 
1999 ―Plan on Raising the Competitiveness of Traditional Industries‖ 
Implemented 
2000 ―Statute for Industrial Upgrading‖ Amended 
2000 ―Plan on Reviving Traditional Industries‖ Implemented 
2002 ―Program for Reviving the Technological Development of Traditional 
Industries‖ Implemented 
2002 ―Two Trillion and Twin Star Development Program‖ Implemented 
2002 ―006688 Measure‖ Implemented 
2002 Central Taiwan Science Park Set Up 
2003 ―Mining Industry Act‖ Amended 
2003 ―Construction and Building Industry Act‖ Promulgated 
2006 ―Plan on the Acceleration of the Development of Kaohsiung Software 
Industrial Park‖ Implemented 
2007 ―Biotech and New Pharmaceutical Development Act‖ Promulgated 
2009 i-Taiwan 12 Projects 
2009 ―Dawning Green Energy Industry Program‖ approved 
  
272 
 
Implemented 
1999 ―Fundamental Science and Technology Act‖ Promulgated 
2001 ―National Science and Technology Development Plan (2001~2004)‖ 
Implemented 
2001 ―National Information and Communication Initiative Program‖ and 
―e-Taiwan Program‖ Implemented 
2002 Central Taiwan Science Park Set Up 
2003 ROC’s Science & Technology White Paper (2003~2006) Published 
2003 National Laboratory Institute Set Up 
2003 National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center Set Up 
2005 ―National Science and Technology Development Plan (2005~2008)‖ 
Implemented 
2007 ROC’s Science & Technology White Paper (2007~2010) Published 
2009 The 8
th
 National Science and Technology Conference Held 
2009 National Science and Technology Development Plan (2009-2012) 
issued 
2009 Strategies for Six Key Emerging Industries (SEI) Developed  
 
  
274 
 
2004 Agricultural Financial Reform and Dual Financial System 
Implemented 
2005 The Agricultural Bank of Taiwan Set Up 
2006 ―New Agriculture Movement to Enhance Global Marketing and to 
Promote Traceability‖ Implemented 
2007 ―Agricultural Production and Certification Management Act‖ 
Promulgated 
2007 ―Agenda for Rural Reconstruction‖ Implemented 
2008 ―Regulations on Providing Assistance to Promote Research by 
Agribusinesses‖ Implemented 
2009 Joined the Ranks of Nations Contributing to the Svalbard Global 
Seed Vault in Norway 
 
276 
 
  
278 
 
Appendlx II Comparison Results 
 
 
1. Internal R&D expenditures 
(millions of USD; at purchasing power parity of the national currencies) 
 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 
Russia 8122.3 8779.5 9650.0 8831.7 9083.3 10726.9 12852.3 14563.6 16317.2 16487.8 18115.0 20153.9 
Taiwan      8833.5 9336.7 10428.2 11675.9 13131.0 14528.0 16552.9 
 
 
 
 
2. Internal R&D expenditures as % of GDP 
 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 
Russia 0.85 0.97 1.04 0.95 1.00 1.05 1.18 1.25 1.28 1.15 1.07 1.07 
Taiwan      1.97 2.08 2.18 2.31 2.38 2.45 2.58 
 
 
 
3. Internal R&D expenditures by sectors of Performance: 2006* 
(percent) 
 Internal R&D 
expenditures 
Public sector Entrepreneurial 
sector 
Higher education Non-commercial 
organisations 
Russia 100 27.0 66.6 6.1 0.3 
Taiwan 100 19.9 67.5 12.2 0.4 
* Or the closest available data. 
 
 
  
280 
 
5. Internal R&D expenditures by socio-economic goals: 2006 
(percent) 
 Russia Taiwan 
 Internal R&D expenditures 
100.0 100.0 
 Research and exploitation of Earth and 
atmosphere 
2.6 0.9 
 Infrastructure and development of cities, towns 
and villages 
4.8 3.0 
 Environment protection 
0.9 1.2 
 Health care 
2.0 8.1 
 Generation, distribution and rational use of 
energy 
3.6 2.2 
 Agriculture, forestry and fisheries 
2.5 3.4 
 Industrial production 
24.7 66.6 
 Social development and social structures 
1.2 3.8 
 Peaceful use of space 
4.9 0.7 
 General development of science 
21.0 - 
 Other civilian research 
0.1 - 
 Other - 6.5 
 
 
 
6. Internal current R&D expenditures by type of work: 2006 
(percent) 
 Russia Taiwan 
 Internal current R&D expenditures 
 
100 
 
100 
 Basic research 15.4 10.0 
 Applied research 15.3 25.7 
 Development 69.3 64.3 
 
 
282 
 
9. Number of publications of articles and reviews in scientific magazines indexed  
in the Web of Science 
 1997 2006 
 Number of 
publications 
Position in the 
world 
Number of 
publications 
Position in the 
world 
Share in 
publications 
Number of 
publications 
per 1000 
researchers  
Russia 27716 8 23842 14 2.4 53 
Taiwan 8188 20 18126 17 1.8 179 
 
10. Scientific specialisation indices in Russia 
 
1997–2001  2002–2006 
 
 
 
Clinical medicine 
Chemistry 
Physics 
Technical sciences 
 
Biology and biochemistry 
Plants and animal sciences 
Material sciences 
Social sciences 
Computer sciences 
Neural and behavioral sciences 
Molecular biology and genetics  
Earth sciences 
Environment and ecology sciences 
Mathematics 
Psychiatry and psychology 
Agriculture 
Pharmacology and toxicology 
Microbiology 
Economics and business 
Space sciences 
Immunology 
Interdisciplinary research 
 
 
 
 
 
0.20 
1.79 
2.91 
1.18 
0.63 
0.39 
1.47 
0.24 
0.52 
0.25 
0.75 
2.39 
0.32 
1.70 
0.21 
0.44 
0.09 
0.73 
0.10 
2.13 
0.09 
6.16 
01234567
0.24 
1.80 
2.95 
1.01 
0.71 
0.44 
1.28 
0.27 
0.38 
0.26 
0.77 
2.37 
0.36 
1.80 
0.21 
0.33 
0.11 
0.81 
0.08 
2.61 
0.14 
0.35 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
 284 
12. Articles of the Russian authors prepared in co-authorship with  scientists from different countries  
1997  2006 
 
Germany 
 
US 
France 
GB 
Italy 
Japan 
Switzerland 
Poland 
Netherlands 
Canada 
Spain 
Sweden 
China 
Korea 
Finland 
Ukraine 
Check  
Belgium 
Austria 
Norway 
Israel 
Australia 
India 
Brazil 
Taiwan 
Portugal 
Mexico 
Belarus 
Denmark 
Greece 
 
 
1723 
1654 
916 
658 
557 
462 
302 
317 
326 
260 
271 
328 
106 
134 
222 
342 
144 
198 
127 
115 
173 
92 
80 
124 
21 
52 
72 
96 
176 
58 
2396 
2363 
1284 
983 
841 
704 
499 
475 
456 
451 
447 
409 
386 
372 
348 
309 
269 
262 
232 
217 
193 
184 
173 
170 
164 
156 
151 
142 
139 
124 
 286 
country specified 
 
 288 
16. Patent applications for inventions submitted to foreign patent offices 
 Number of applications Number of applications per 
1 000 000 population 
Number of applications per 
1 000 000 of economically active population 
2003 2004 2005 2006 2003 2004 2005 2006 2003 2004 2005 2006 
EPO 
Russia 218 231 293 292 1.51 1.61 2.05 2.05 2.98 3.12 3.95 3.88 
Taiwan 483 562 679 765  24.77 29.82 33.44  31.6441 37.8294 42.1116 
USPTO 
Russia 341 334 386 412 2.36 2.33 2.56 2.90 4.68 4.53 4.94 5.49 
Taiwan 13786 15057 16617 19301 610 663.62 729.8 843.7 78.4544 847.8041 925.79 1062.48 
JPO 
Russia 2 33 31 33 0.01 0.21 0.22 0.23 0.03 0.41 0.42 0.44 
Taiwan 1658 1762 1819 1890 73.3 77.658 79.88 82.62 9.4355 99.2117 101.3427 104.041 
 
  
 290 
19. Basic indicators of innovation activities of industrial enterprises 
 
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 
Share of organisations 
engaged in technological 
innovation (% of the total 
number of organisations) 
 
 
 
5.5 
 
 
 
5.2 
 
 
 
4.7 
 
 
 
5.0 
 
 
 
6.2 
 
 
 
10.6 
 
 
 
9.6 
 
 
 
9.8 
 
 
 
10.3 
 
 
 
10.5 
 
 
 
9.3 
 
 
 
9.4 9.4 
Output of innovative 
products (services), billion. 
roubles, until 1998 – 
trillion roubles. 
 
 
 
39.8 
 
 
 
35.3 
 
 
 
54.9 
 
 
 
45.8 
 
 
 
84.4 
 
 
 
154.1 
 
 
 
181.8 
 
 
 
206.3 
 
 
 
312.7 
 
 
 
433.0 
 
 
 
545.5 
 
 
 
714.0 916.1 
Share of innovative 
products (services) (% of 
the total volume of shipped 
products/provided 
services)  
 
 
 
 
4.7 
 
 
 
 
3..3 
 
 
 
 
4.7 
 
 
 
 
3.8 
 
 
 
 
3.7 
 
 
 
 
4.4 
 
 
 
 
4.2 
 
 
 
 
4.3 
 
 
 
 
4.7 
 
 
 
 
5.4 
 
 
 
 
5.0 
 
 
 
 
5.5 
 
 
 
 
5.5 
 
 
 
 
20. Innovation activities of small industrial enterprises 
 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 
Number of small enterprises engaged 
in technological enterprises, units 729 … 779 … 919 … 996 
Increase of the number of small 
enterprises engaged in technological 
enterprises, units per year 56 25 25 58 82 38 39 
Small enterprises‘ level of innovation 
activities, percent 1.5 … 1.6 … 1.6 … 4.3 
Share of innovative products (services) 
as % of the total volume of products 
shipped (services provided) by small 
enterprises 0.6 … 0.3 … 0.3 … 2.0 
 
  
  
(出國類別：考察） 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國家科學與創新系統與前瞻研究計畫— 
參訪莫斯科國立大學 
計量分析與知識經濟研究所（ISSEK） 
出國報告書 
 
 
 
 
 
 
服務機關：國家實驗研究院科技政策研究與資訊中心 
出國人姓名職稱： 劉聰德 博士/計畫主持人 
 王宣智 副研究員 
 賴明豐 副研究員 
出國地點：俄羅斯莫斯科 
出國日期：民國 99年 08月 02日至 08日 
報告日期：民國 99年 09月 15日 
  
iii 
 
活動日程表 
 
日期 參訪單位 接待人員 
8/2(一) 台北→俄羅斯莫斯科 
8/3(二) 台北→俄羅斯莫斯科 
台北莫斯經濟文化協調
委員會 
Dr.JengJeng-Ywan 
Mr.Chenc Hsu-Feng 
8/4(三) 
ISSEK 
(計畫分析與知識經濟
研究所) 
Dr.Liliana N. Proskuryakova 
Ms. Ekaterina Finagina 
Mr. Alexander Grigoriev 
8/5(四) 
Center for Monitoring 
of Information 
Society 
(資訊化社會觀測與統
計中心) 
Dr. Liliana N. Proskuryakova 
Dr. Gulnarra ABDRAKHMANOVA 
8/6(五) ISSEK 
(計畫分析與知識經濟
研究所) 
Dr. Liliana N. Proskuryakova 
Ms. Ekaterina Finagina 
Dr. Gulnarra ABDRAKHMANOVA 
Dr. JengJeng-Ywan 
8/7(六) 莫斯科→台北 
8/8(日) 抵達台北 
 
  
1 
 
一、 緣起與目的 
本次合作研究計畫「國家科學與創新系統與前瞻科技發展之比較
研究：以台灣與俄羅斯為例」係由台灣國科會與俄羅斯基礎研究基金
會簽署雙邊協議下支援的共同研究案，以促進兩國科技夜流之目的。
合作計畫預定之每年互訪活動，計畫成員劉聰德資深工程師、王宣智
副研究與賴明豐副研究員於 2010 年 8 月 2 日至 8 月 8 日赴俄羅斯參
訪相關機構，出國行程如表 1 所示。 
 
表 1. 出國行程 
日期 參訪單位  
8/2(一) 台北→俄羅斯莫斯科 
8/3(二) 台北→俄羅斯莫斯科 
台北莫斯經濟文化協調委員會 
8/4(三) 
Institute for Statistical Studies and Economics of 
Knowledge(ISSEK)(計量分析與知識經濟研究所) 
8/5(四) 
Center for Monitoring of Information Society 
(資訊化社會觀測與統計中心) 
8/6(五) 
Institute for Statistical Studies and Economics of 
Knowledge(ISSEK) (計量分析與知識經濟研究所) 
8/7(六) 莫斯科→台北 
8/8(日) 抵達台北 
資料來源：本研究 
 
3 
 
二、 參訪單位與討論紀要 
1. 莫斯科大學高等經濟學院（HSE） 
在俄羅斯經濟學家（EvgenyYasin、YaroslavKuzminov）及政府內
部改革派（YegorGaidar、Alexander Shokhin 等）的倡議之下，莫斯科
大學高等經濟學院（ State University-Higher School of Economics， 
HSE）成立於 1992 年，主要目的在藉由教育來提倡經濟與社會改革、
傳播現代經濟理論、以及發展有關經濟、社會改革以及企業策略的新
思路。在俄羅斯專家學者看來， HSE 是一個由俄國政府與企業支持
的新型態大學計畫。 
HSE 於 1995 年升格為大學。藉由與一些歐洲知名大學（如：
Erasmus University Rotterdam、the University Paris I Pantheon-Sorbonne、
倫敦政經學院）的合作，SU-HSE 在經濟學、社會學與政治學領域成
為俄羅斯主要的學術機構，也是最受歡迎及最優越的三大學府之一。 
2003 年 HSE 加入歐洲大學協會（ European University 
Association，EUA）及經濟合作發展組織（OECD）下的高等教育機
構管理計畫（the Institutional Management in Higher Education 
programme，IMHE）。 
5 
 
HSE 是歐洲 TUNING EducationalProgrammes 中俄羅斯部份的承辦單
位，也負責執行 Erasmus MundusExternal Cooperation Window 計畫中
2008-2009 學年國際移動方案。HSE 的特色之一是系所的持續增加，
以反應市場對特定知識領域的需求及培養面對知識社會所帶來挑戰
所需之人才。截至 2008 學年為止，HSE 共有 18 個系所與學院。除了
經濟學被納入所有學程外，分析能力與外國語言亦是所著重的重點。
此外，注重教學品質、瞭解俄羅斯實際生活中之經濟問題、及關注國
際經濟與政治脈動等策略，皆使得 HSE 的學生在畢業之後能順利進
入俄羅斯及國際主要企業、政府機構與國際組織。 
 
 
2. 計量分析與知識經濟研究所（The Institute for Statistical 
Studies and Economics of Knowledge, ISSEK） 
計量分析與知識經濟研究所，成立於 2002 年，預算主要來自於
申請競爭型之研究計畫。其主要之研究任務集中於複雜的分析和政策
研究，所涉及的領域為科技、創新、教育，並著重於：整合教育與科
學、評鑑創新氣候、鑑定國家優先重點科技、發展有關科技與教育新
法規、以及發展複雜資訊系統。根據 ISSEK 與俄羅斯聯邦統計服務
處所簽之協議，ISSEK 負責發展收集俄羅斯境內科技、創新、教育與
7 
 
研究(Statistics)、教育政策分析(Education)、資訊化社會(Information 
Society)、智慧資本研究(Intellectual Services)等議題調查、分析與探討，
詳細之執行計畫如圖 3 所示。 
 
 
圖 3 各領域之主要執行計畫 
 
ISSEK 也從 FP5 計畫開始積極參與歐盟研究與技術發展構(EU 
Framework Programmes)系列的研究計畫(FP5、FP6 與 FP7)，針對不
同議題發展出用以平估與觀測的結構化指標系統；在長期觀測、分析
與錄下，ISEEK 除了定期出版相關研究成果報告之外，也針對創新與
技術趨勢預測開辦相關期刊。 
 
 
Statistics
• Performance indicators for Federal 
Agencies of S&T and education
• Statistical indicators of social and 
economic development
• Methodologies for statistical 
measurement of S&T and 
innovation on the basis of 
international standards
• Indicators and statistics of 
Information Society
• Statistics and indicators of 
education
• Federal Internet portal for 
government statistics
• Nomenclature of institutional units 
by sector of the economy
• GIS for socio-economic statistics 
Education
• Monitoring of economic strategies 
and expenditure in educational 
markets (state, households, 
educational establishments, 
enterprises)
• Measuring participation 
in lifelong learning
Information Society
• Measurement of the ICT Sector 
• ICT usage by enterprises, 
households and educational 
institutions
• E-government indicators
Intellectual Services
• Monitoring of IS markets
9 
 
 
圖 4 資訊化社會觀測中心出版刊物 
 
資訊化社會觀測中心自 1996 年起，開始針對資訊化社會發展的
情況進行研究，如： 
 1996—國際間經驗的分析（以研發方面的統計資料為主） 
 1999—企業使用資通訊科技情況之初步、詴驗性調查 
 2002—網際網路與其他全球網絡使用情形之初步、詴驗性調
查 
 2003—資通訊科技的使用與擴散之年度調查 
 2004 起—依國際標準（OECD、Eurostat）發展俄羅斯資通訊
統計資料（包含定期資料收集、統計數據手冊） 
資訊化社會觀測中心主要之任務(一)發展符合國際標準之統計
與社會調查指標與工具；(二)使用統計學、社會學與專家資料來監測
與分析俄羅斯資訊化社會現況。在資料收集方面的主要收集原則為：
11 
 
Information System on ICT Sector Developmentand the Use of ICT at 
Enterprises and Government Agencies、Development of Methodology for 
Evaluation of Targets for ICTDevelopment 
 
  
13 
 
法不斷的改善，才能夠針對國家經濟發展政策研擬適切之建言。
因此確立各單位長期研究的方向與主題，方能建構各單位的核心
能量，因此 ISSEK的八大中心都各有其專司的研究議題與重點，
人員間的合作關係將會視每一專案或研究計畫的需要成立任務導
向的跨中心合作小組，以共有的標準研究規範與研究方法，確保
研究型成或研究執行時整體流程的品質。 
2. 為強化研究成果達到國際標準與要求，除根本性落實資料調查、
分析、紀錄與資料建置等長期性工作外，透過積極參與跨國雙邊
或多邊合作研究的模式，提高研究成果的影響力與政策效益並建
立ISSEK與各國相關研究機構間合作交流的機會，以解不同國家、
機構在該領域的發展動向，以提昇研究能量與國際能見度。此點
值得讓身為國家型智庫的本中心學習與借鑑。 
3. 在科技與技術研究上，俄羅斯具備扎實之基礎研究實力，而台灣
則具有製造流程的最佳化與快速將技術產品化(商品化)之能力，
建議兩國應加強促進民間技術交流或研發合作，或建立專利技術
交流平台，讓俄羅斯與台灣能透過專利、技術的交流彼此學習，
讓雙方民間在於未來將會有更寬廣之合作空間。 
4. ISSEK藉由定期發表與出版其內部研究成果，以向社會大眾介紹
研究議題之相關資訊，且積極拓展跨國之雙邊或多邊合作機會，
15 
 
附錄一：攜回資料一覽表 
攜回資料 備註 
Information and Communication Technologies in 
theRussian Economy (2007) 
Data Book 
Information Society Statistics in the Russian 
Federation:Harmonization with International Standards 
(2007) 
Data Book 
Science and Technology. Innovation. Information 
Society 
Packet Data 
Book 
ФОРСАЙТ 
ЖУРНАЛ ГОСУДАРСТВЕННОГО 
УНИВЕРСИТЕТА ВЫСШЕЙ ШКОЛЫ 
ЭКОНОМИКИ 
Journal 
Statistics of Information Society in Russia Slides 
 
 
17 
 
19 
 
21 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/01/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 國家科學與創新系統與前瞻科技發展之比較研究：以台灣與俄羅斯為例
計畫主持人: 劉聰德
計畫編號: 96-2923-E-492-003-MY3 學門領域: 資訊安全
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
競爭力的定義由過去聚焦於降低商品成本與提高品質，轉為強調必須新技術與
應用的發展，並加強商品化的時程，才有機會獲致成功。因此，如何確認並強
化自身的創新能耐成為企業或甚至是各國重點發展的關鍵議題之一。本計畫研
究目的即希望透過與俄羅斯統計與知識經濟研究所 (ISSEK) 三年期的合作研
究計畫，從 
國家創新系統的角度剖析台灣與俄羅斯兩國在科技研發與技術創新發展策略上
的差異與現況，以便取長補短提供給兩方政府決策人員參考，並藉由這次國際
合作研究計畫的機會培養我方研究人員在該議題上的研究能力與經驗。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
