國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
 
本計畫建立多功能河川環境流量之評估與優選架構，建立變異範圍法(RVA)
模式架構評估環境流量對復育天然流制之功效，評估各種環境流量與計畫
用水方案對生態標的與人類需求標的折衷值之影響；整合多目標遺傳演算
法 NSGA-II 與 RVA 架構，將天然流制年內與年際變異性納入環境流量方
案，尋求 Pareto 最佳解；提出直方圖比對法(HMA)，保留天然流制頻率分
布特色；利用區域化理論推測未設站地區天然流制，做為未設站河段環境
流量規劃依據；研發需求分割與優先化方法(DPP)，將環境流量需求納入現
有水庫操作規則。本研究建立整合之生態健康反應曲線、河川形貌動力及
多功能環境流量優選模組是國內首見，利用此模組所優選之水庫環境流量
施放標準不僅考慮水庫既有之供水、防洪、發電等標的，同時兼顧河川環
境與生態保育等多功能。目前已將研究成果提供翡翠水庫管理局做為水庫
環境流量操作依據，研究成果若落實應用於翡翠水庫操作方式修正及台北都
會區居民用水觀念之改變，則新店溪河川環境生態復育指日可待。本研究成果
不僅提供河川環境生態保育之「非量化產出價值」，亦可因都會區用水觀念之
改變而衍生「可量化之經濟效益」與國家永續發展之資源。本計畫研究成果
已發表於 Water Resources Research, River Research and Applications等重要
學術期刊。 
 
 
1 
 
Assessing environmental flow in rivers using aquatic macroinvertebrates 
 
 
Abstract 
In Taiwan, as other parts of the world, efforts to restore the key elements of the flow regime of 
regulated rivers often directed to the establishment of environmental flows.  However, many of the 
existing methods neglect the ecological responses on planning environmental flow regimes and 
designed entirely based on the hydrological statistics when calculating trade-off between 
environmental and human use of water resource.  This could lead to inappropriate management 
and thus fail to maintain the biodiversity and the ecosystem sustainability. Stream benthic 
macroinvertebrates can be used as bioindicators for assessing the ecological response to stress on 
local habitat and suitability of designed environmental flow regime to the local biological 
communities due to the relative low mobility of macroinvertebrates and their localized distribution. 
RIVPACS (The River InVertebrate Prediction And Classification System) model enable the 
assessment of ecological status of stream sites using macroinvertebrate taxa. It also produces a 
community-level measure of biological condition known as O/E ratio (or ecological quality index, 
EQI) which is derived from a comparison of the observed (O) biota with those expected (E) to 
occur in the absence of anthropogenic stress. Bioassessment of impact stream sites and the 
corresponding restoration progress can be quantified using EQI which can thus provide the 
ecological basis for designing environmental flow regimes. In the present study, 11 reference 
(unimpacted) sites in North Taiwan which exhibited various geographic, physical habitat and water 
chemistry characteristics were used to construct the RIVPACS reference model. Five impacted sites 
at the Xindian River catchment affected by flow alteration resulting from reservoir operation were 
assessed for their ecological status. Based on the RIVPACS multivariate discriminant model, eight 
environmental predictors were selected for their best explaining the natural variability in the 
taxonomic composition of macroinvertebrates of the 11 reference sites (F>2.16), they included 
elevation, current velocity, channel width, percent located in mountains, conductivity, discharge, 
percent bedrock, and percent located in plains.  The mean O/E values of the impacted sites in the 
Xindian River catchment were NA-3 (0.75), NA-4 (0.61), NA-5 (0.55), NA-6 (0.59) and NA-7 
(0.43). Mean impacted site O/E value (0.58±0.19) were significantly lower than the reference site 
O/E value (t=5.576, p<0.001). This therefore showed that the impacted sites were under different 
degree of anthropogenic stresses where the ecological status at the lowland sites NA-5, NA-6 and 
NA-7 were significantly lower than that for the mid-elevation rural sites NA-3 and NA-4 (F=46.43, 
p<0.001). Our findings indicated that the RIVPACS model was accurate and precise enough to 
detect the anthropogenic stresses at the catchment scale. 
 
Keywords:  RIVPACS, environmental flow, benthic macroinvertebrates, restoration, O/E ratio, 
bioassessment. 
3 
 
 
The River InVertebrate Prediction And Classification System (RIVPACS) developed from the 
Centre for Ecology & Hydrology, United Kingdom, uses macroinvertebrates as the classification 
tool for different river sites and bioassessment for river conditions (Wright et al., 1984; Armitage et 
al, 1987).  RIVPACS method provides a standard procedure for using macroinvertebrates as 
biomonitoring and bioassessment tool for river conditions by standardizing the field sampling 
protocol, laboratory processing of samples, data analysis and rules for decision making (Figure 2).  
This RIVPACS I model was first developed in 1977 from linking 30 environmental variables to the 
macroinvertebrate fauna (at family-level identification) at 268 reference sites with multiple 
discriminant analysis (MDA), and further extended to the full fauna of 614 reference sites 
distributing over a wide geographic range across the whole country of UK in RIVPACS III which is 
the latest version released in 1997 (Wright et al. 1997).   
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.  Common macroinvertebrate taxa collected at the study rivers: (A) Coleopteran; (B) 
Emphemeroptera; (C) Plecoptera; and (D) Diptera.  
 
 
 
Figure 2.  Flowchart showing the procedures of RIVPACS analysis. 
 
Selection of reference sites 
Environmental data 
Model validation 
Biological data 
Classification of sites 
based on 
macroinvertebrate 
assemblages using 
TWINSPAN 
Development of Prediction 
model (MDA) 
5 
 
  
Figure 3.  Diagrammatic illustration of the habitat type-specific determination of EQI based on 
the expected/observed macroinvertebrate taxa. 
 
 
In the present study, RIVPACS method is used to quantify the ecological response of 
macroinvertebrates to variation of streamflow patterns under natural and human modified 
conditions at different streams in the Xindian River catchment in north Taiwan during a two-year 
study period.  The natural response, i.e. the community structure of macroinvertebrates, at 
undisturbed section without human modification of streamflow is used to construct the 
macroinvertebrate taxa-natural flow relationship at different habitat types, i.e. expected relationship 
at reference sites.  Response of macroinvertebrates to different degree of flow alteration can be 
quantified by the residual EQI between the expected taxa at the same habitat type with natural flow 
regime and the observed taxa at impacted sites with flow modification (Figure 3).  Thus, we can 
predict the ecological impacts in term of variaiton pattern of macroinvertebrate taxa under different 
levels of flow modification resulting from reservoir operations.  Such information will enable us 
to design the most appropriate environmental flow regime which can support highest biodiversity 
with different life-history patterns, or assess the effectiveness of any designed environmental flow 
regimes on sustaining river ecosystem by using the RIVPACS targets.   
 
O/E = EQI 
7 
 
Physical habitat and water chemistry  
Monthly sampling was conducted for three times during the dry season (December–March) and the 
wet season (June–September) at two consecutive years (2009-2010). Geographic characteristics 
(latitude, longitude, slope, elevation, distance from source) of each site were recorded. At each 
study site, one (50–60m) or two sampling riffles (20–40m) for macroinvertebrate sampling was first 
identified. Water quality data (water temerature, conductivity, pH, total suspended solids, dissolved 
oxygen, total phosphorus, nitrate-nitrogen and ammonium-nitrogen) assocaited with each sampling 
riffles were collected prior to macroinvertebrate sampling. Physical habitat characteristics of  each 
site, including stream channel width (m) and depth (m), current velocity (ms-1), substrate 
composition (%), bank, channel and landuse characterisitcs were measured based on the standard 
protocol of the River Habitat Survey, the United Kingdom (Raven et al., 2000).  
 
Macroinvertebrates 
Benthic macroinvertebrates were collected from riffles with 2-min kick sampling (mesh = 500μm). 
At each study site, six kick-samples were collected randomly along the riffles during wadable 
baseflow conditions.  All samples collected were preserved in 90% ethanol in the labelled plastic 
bags, and then tranported to the laboratory for taxonomic identification. Macroinvertebrate 
sampling was carried out regularly in the dry (three times) and wet season (three times) during 2009 
and 2010. In the laboratory, macroinvertebrates were identified to order and family level under 40x 
dissecting microscope. As the accuracy and sensivity of RIVPACS-type model increase with sample 
size, sub-sample counts for each sample was restricted to at least 300-350 individuals (Ostermiller 
and Hawkins, 2004).  
 
Predictive model construction 
Data analysis 
The spatial and temporal variation of physical and chemical variables, and macroinvertebrate taxa 
were evaluated using 3-way (site × season × year) ANOVA with Minitab 15.0 package (Minitab Inc., 
2007).   
 
Classificaiton of reference sites  
As RIVPACS is designed to determine the habitat-specific varaition of biological response to 
different environmental stresses, it is important to construct the reference curve of structural 
variation of macroinvertebrate taxa (i.e. expected taxa) across different habitat types (i.e. flow types) 
at the natural conditions for accurate assessment and prediction of change in biological response (i.e. 
observed macroinvertebrate taxa) at the impacted sites. Instead of constructing the reference curve 
based on the macroinvertebrate taxa from only two undisturbed reference sites (NA-1 and NA-2) 
from the Xindian River catchment, six more reference sites from Baishih River and three from 
Shuang-Hsi River in north Taiwan were also included to construct reference curve (Table 1). 
9 
 
order-level OUT) (p<0.05). However, there is consistent yearly pattern of the macroinvertebrate 
taxa at the seven sites between the dry and wet season (p>0.05).  
 
 
Figure 4.  Mean relative abundance (%) of macroinvertebrate orders at the seven study sites in dry 
and wet seasons during the two study years. 
 
 
Site characteristics 
Considerable environmental variation occurred among both reference and impacted sites (Table 2). 
Most of environmental paremeters of impacted sites generally occurred within variation range of 
reference sites including elevation, channel depth, current velocity, water temperature, conductivity 
and substrate composition.  However, the impacted sites showed higher channel width and lower 
currebt velocity. Although the bottom substrates of reference and impacted sites were dominated by 
boulder/cobble and pebble/gravel, but the composition of sand and silt at impacted was significantly 
11 
 
between habitat types.  Other predictors including discharge, percent bedrock, and percent located 
in plains were relatively less important in habitat classification. 
 
 
Figure 5.  UPGMA flexible beta cluster analysis of samples showing the 11 biologically defined 
habitat types that are used to develop the RIVPACS model. 
 
 
Detection of anthropogenic disturbance from the predictive model 
O/E values for the reference dataset did not showed significantly departure from normal distribution 
(goodness of fit test, χ2 = 19.68, p>0.05). Mean O/E values among the three habitat types, i.e. type 
1 (1.1±0.14), 2 (1.0±0.18) and 3 (1.0±0.21) were similar (F=2.827, p=0.074) (Figure 6). The 
standard deviation of calibration O/E values (0.13) was significantly lower than that for the null 
model (0.21) suggesting the present predictive model can explain large proportion of natural 
variability in observed macroinvertebrate taxa within the reference dataset.  
 
The impacted sites were classified habitat type 2 and 3, and there was no impacted site belonged to 
habitat type 1 (Figure 6). The mean O/E values of the impacted sites in the Xindian River catchment 
13 
 
discharge (and its variation) continuously influencing the macroinvertebrate community in streams.  
Adjustment of the present RIVPACS model will be necessary by including the mean discharge (e.g. 
daily, monthly and yearly) and other streamflow parameters quantifying magnitude, timing, 
frequency, duration and variation of flow so as to enable a better evaluation of the relationships. 
 
In addition, the present RIVPACS model was developed from pooling all the environmental and 
biological data collected at the reference sites for two years.  However, as seasonal variation of the 
abundance and diversity of most stream macroinvertebrates is generally common and so as the 
natural flow regime, we will construct the RIVPACS model for dry and wet season separately in 
order to reveal if there is difference in habitat grouping and predictability between the yearly model 
and seasonal model.  This will provide essential information for designing the appropriate 
environmental flow regime by adopting whether a seasonal approach or yearly approach.  
 
 
References 
Armitage P.D., Gunn R.J.M., Furse M.T., Wright J.F. & Moss D. (1987) The use of prediction to assess 
macroinvertebrate response to river regulation. Hydrobiologia, 144, 25–32. 
Clarke R.T., Wright J.F. & Furse M.T. (2003) RIVPACS models for predicting the expected macroinvertebrate fauna 
and assessing the ecological quality of rivers. Ecological Modelling, 160, 219–233. 
Clarke R.T. & Murphy J.F. (2006) Effects of locally rare taxa on the precision and sensitivity of RIVPACS 
bioassessment of freshwaters. Freshwater Biology, 51, 1924–1940. 
CWBROC (Central Weather Bureau, Republic of China) (2009) Climate Statistics. http://www.cwb.gov.tw 
Ostermiller J.D. & Hawkins C.P. (2004) Effects of sampling error on bioassessments of stream ecosystems: application 
to RIVPACS-type models. Journal of the North American Benthological Society, 23, 363–382. 
Poff N.L., Allan J.D., Bain M.B., Karr J.R., Presetegaard K.L., Richer B.D., Sparkes R.E. &  Stromberg J.C. (1997) 
The natural flow regime: a paradigm for river conservation and restoration. BioScience 47, 769–84. 
Tharme R.E. (2003) A global perspective on environmental flow assessment: emerging trends in the development and 
application of environmental flow methodologies for rivers. River Research and Applications, 19, 397–411. 
Raven P.J., Holmes N.T.H., Naura M. and Dawson F.H. (2000) Using river habitat survey for environmental assessment 
and catchment planning in the U.K. Hydrobiologia, 422–423, 359–367. 
Wright J.F., Moss D., Armitage P.D. & Furse M.T. (1984) A preliminary classification of running-water sites in Great 
Britain on macro0invertebrate species and the prediction of community type using environmental data. Freshwater 
Biology, 14, 221–256. 
Wright J.F., Moss D., Clarke R.T. & Furse M.T. (1997). ‘Biological assessment of river quality using the new version 
of RIVPACS (RIVPACS III)’ in Boon, P.J. and Howell, D.L. (Eds), Freshwater Quality: Defining the Indefinable?, 
The Stationery Office, Edinburgh, 102–108. 
 
15 
 
 
Plate 3.  Study site at Wan Nian section of Xindian River (NA-3). 
 
 
 
Plate 4.  Study site at a parallel tributary at Wan Nian section of Xindian River (NA-4). 
 
 
17 
 
 
Plate 7.  Study site at Ching Tan section of Xindian River (NA-7). 
 
 
 
Plate 8.  Water chemistry is measured at each study site. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part II 
 
 
 
 
 
requirements, particularly during the dry periods. In a mul-
tisector water‐sharing system, the restrictive flow strategy
often implies reallocation of water resources to the existing
users, which constitutes a task that should be implemented
in an equitable manner to ensure more effective sharing of
water between the society and ecosystems [Wallace et al.,
2003].
[4] Although generally justified, equity is, however, a
social psychological term whose definition is unsuitable for
the mathematical programming of water allocation [Wang
et al., 2007]. It has also been pointed out that the public
could make relatively complex judgments on the fairness in
water allocation, using dimensions beyond the traditional
scope of equity [Syme et al., 1999]. As an alternative, the
demand management perspective was proposed to promote
a more equitable reallocation framework based on the per-
formance objectives [Lankford, 2003]. Specifically, reduc-
ing water demands should be shared among sectors to secure
significant marginal benefits or the optimal overall perfor-
mance. The key challenge in developing such a framework
is to incorporate environmental flow targets in the existing
reservoir operation rules while seeking the balance between
the demands of various sectors. Reservoir operation rules
that take into consideration the environmental flow require-
ments or ecosystem needs have been proposed previously
[e.g., Hughes et al., 1997; Hughes and Ziervogel, 1998;
Harman and Stewardson, 2005; Suen and Eheart, 2006;
Hughes and Mallory, 2008]. These works mainly focused on
the active strategy of aiming to establish dam release schemes
that would maintain the targeted flow regime. None of these
previous works, however, presented a restrictive strategy
addressing the issue of demand management.
[5] In this paper we present a new, dual active‐restrictive
approach to devising the optimal reservoir operation rules that
seek to secure off‐stream water demands while maximizing
environmental benefits. For the active part, a multicomponent
environmental flow target (including the minimum and
monthly flow components) is incorporated into the reservoir
operation rules. For the restrictive counterpart, we present a
novel demands partitioning and prioritizing (DPP) approach
to reallocating the demands of the off‐stream water user and
environmental sector. The proposed dual approach is coupled
with a multicriteria optimization framework to establish
the optimal operational parameters for the existing Feitsui
Reservoir system (Taiwan) under various operation scenar-
ios. The outcomes associated with different operation strat-
egies are compared, and their implications for more balanced
management of water resources are further discussed.
2. Feitsui Reservoir System
[6] The Feitsui Reservoir is located at the Peishih Creek
(north fork of the upper Hsintien Creek) in northern Taiwan
(Figure 1). This multipurpose reservoir has been in opera-
tion since 1987. The capacity of the Feitsui Reservoir is
385 million m3, with its main purpose being to provide
stable water supplies for the Taipei metropolitan area. The
attenuation of flood peaks also serves to mitigate flooding,
although it is not a primary function of the Feitsui Reservoir.
In addition, the hydropower plant associated with the res-
ervoir facilitates the generation of auxiliary electricity for
the Taiwan Power Company.
[7] The domestic demand of the Taipei metropolitan area
is jointly supplied by the water releases from the Feitsui
Reservoir and unregulated flow from the Nanshih Creek
(south fork of the upper Hsintien Creek). The Nanshih
Creek joins the Peishih Creek at ∼1 km downstream of the
Feitsui Reservoir. Below the confluence is the Hsintien
Creek, a major tributary of the Tanshui River. The annual
inflow of the Feitsui Reservoir is ∼10 billion m3 (mean daily
inflow = 31.6 m3/s), and the annual runoff of the Nanshih
Creek is ∼12 billion m3. The mean monthly inflows of the
Feitsui Reservoir and monthly flows from the Nanshih Creek
are summarized in Table 1, which also shows the projected
domestic demands, which sum to a total of ∼11.3 billion m3
per year.
[8] The joint flow of the Peishih and Nanshih Creeks is
diverted from the Chingtan Weir (Figure 1) to the water
treatment plant and then distributed by the Taipei Water
Company. Operation of the Feitsui Reservoir follows the
predetermined rule curves shown in Figure 2, where the
reservoir water level is divided into five distinct zones by
four rule curves (i.e., the upper, middle, lower, and critical
rule curves). The amount of water released for the domestic
supply depends on to which rule‐curve (RC) zone the res-
ervoir storage level belongs and whether the flow from the
Figure 1. Location map of Feitsui Reservoir system and
Hsintien Creek basin. The joint flow from the Peishih and
Nanshih Creeks is diverted at the Chingtan Weir to supply
the domestic demand of the Taipei metropolitan area.
SHIAU AND WU: DUAL ACTIVE-RESTRICTIVE APPROACH W08515W08515
2 of 16
equations (2) and (3) are carried out until Etmeets a specified
criterion of convergence.
[11] The reservoir releases, REF
t , RD
t , and SPt, are deter-
mined from a set of decision and state variables, namely, the
environmental flow target TEF
t , projected domestic demand
Dt, reservoir inflow QI
t, flow from the Nanshih Creek QN
t ,
and reservoir water level ELt. The amount of flow actually
diverted for domestic use, QAD
t , is dependent upon the
values of QN
t , TEF
t , Dt, and RD
t . These are further explained
in the subsequent sections.
3.2. Components of Environmental Flow Target
[12] The concept of environmental flow components
(EFCs) was originally developed for assessment of hydro-
logic alterations [e.g., Richter et al., 2003; Postel and
Richter, 2003]. The five EFCs adopted in the Indicators of
Hydrologic Alteration (IHA) software include (1) extreme
low flows, (2) low flows, (3) high‐flow pulses, (4) small
floods, and (5) large floods [The Nature Conservancy,
2005]. Each EFC is ecologically relevant and exhibits
direct and indirect links with a variety of biota. The concept
of EFCs has been practically applied in a number of envi-
ronmental flow designs. For example, the base flow and pulse
components were incorporated in the environmental flow
targets for optimizing the releases from the Thomson Dam in
the Thomson River, Australia [Harman and Stewardson,
2005]. The flood and high‐flow pulse components were
adopted to develop the environmental flow recommendations
that aim to restore the high flows of the SavannahRiver below
the Thurmond Dam, USA [Richter et al., 2006].
[13] Here we adopted a three‐component environmental
flow target, which consists of the minimum flow, monthly
flow, and flood components (Figure 4). The minimum flow
target is a base flow level to be met throughout the year, and
is assumed to be a top priority over the off‐stream demands.
The monthly flow target is a time‐varying component added
to the minimum flow. The flood target is aimed to retain the
extreme flow characteristic of the natural flow regime. The
flood component is released by the reservoir spill rule (see
section 3.4 for details); thus in this study it can be excluded
from the environmental flow target. As such, the environ-
mental flow target TEF
t is simplified as follows:
TtEF ¼ Tmin þ TtS ; ð4Þ
where Tmin = minimum flow target and TS
t = monthly flow
target. The value of Tmin is not to be set too high, or this top‐
priority target would result in severe shortages of water for the
off‐stream users. Herein, Q95 of the daily flows (= 10.4 m
3/s)
is taken to be the upper limit of Tmin. The temporal distri-
bution of TS
t is based on the natural pattern of monthly flows
Figure 3. Flows of the Feitsui Reservoir system. Flows in
the two boxes are projected domestic demand Dt and envi-
ronmental flow target TEF
t ; QI
t and St denote reservoir inflow
and storage at time t; REF
t and RD
t denote reservoir releases
for the environmental flow and domestic demands; SPt denotes
reservoir spill; QN
t denotes the flow from the Nanshih Creek;
QAD
t denotes the flow diverted for domestic supply; QT
t de-
notes the postimpact flow below the Chingtan Weir.
Figure 4. Three‐component environmental flow target. The minimum flow target is a base flow level to
be met throughout the year and assumed a top priority over the domestic demand. The monthly flow tar-
get is a time‐varying component added to the minimum flow target. The flood target is aimed to retain the
extreme flow characteristic of the natural flow regime, released via the reservoir spill rule.
SHIAU AND WU: DUAL ACTIVE-RESTRICTIVE APPROACH W08515W08515
4 of 16
where CRC = coefficient of domestic release, whose value
varies with the RC zone where the reservoir storage level
belongs, i.e.,
CRC ¼
C1RC ; S
t  RCt1
C2RC ; RC
t
2  St < RCt1
C3RC ; RC
t
3  St < RCt2
C4RC ; RC
t
4  St < RCt3
C5RC ; S
t < RCt4
8>>>>>>><
>>>>>>>:
; ð8Þ
where RC1
t, RC2
t, RC3
t, and RC4
t represent the upper, middle,
lower, and critical RCs. The values ofCRC, ranging between 0
and 1, are designed for the hedging measures during the dry
periods. The existing values currently used for the operation
of Feitsui Reservoir are CRC
1 = CRC
2 = CRC
3 = 1, CRC
4 = 0.9, and
CRC
5 = 0.7 [TFRA, 2004].
3.4.2. Release Rule for Environmental Flows
[18] Because the minimum flow target Tmin is assumed a
top priority over other demands, the release for Tmin would
occur only if the flow from the Nanshih Creek is insufficient
for Tmin; therefore,
Rtmin ¼
QtI ; if Q
t
N þ QtI < Tmin
Tmin  QtN ; if QtN < Tmin and QtN þ QtI  Tmin
0; if QtN  Tmin
8>>><
>>>:
; ð9Þ
in which Rmin
t = reservoir release for Tmin. The release rule
for the monthly flow target TS
t is more complex because TS
t
has to seek balances with the domestic demand; meanwhile,
TS
t is a decision variable whose value would depend on the
flow from the Nanshih Creek, reservoir inflow, and prioritized
allocation ratios, as expressed by the following equation:
in which RS
t = reservoir release for TS
t. The total release for the
environmental flow target may thus be expressed as follows:
RtEF ¼ Rtmin þ RtS : ð11Þ
[19] The release rule for the flood flow target is different
from those for the minimum and monthly flow targets,
because floods are released via the spill passage. The release
of floods is triggered by the reservoir inflow and storage
level that exceed the specified thresholds. For simplicity,
herein these thresholds are taken to be the same values as
those used for the compelling flood release as explained in
the following section.
3.4.3. Release Rule for Reservoir Spill
[20] The reservoir spill comprises three parts. The first is
the release for the flood target, RF
t ; the second is the com-
pelling release during the impending typhoons, QFL
t ; and the
third is the release of excess flood for maintaining the res-
ervoir storage to be below the maximum allowable level.
Thus, the reservoir spill SPt can be expressed as follows:
SPt ¼ max RtF ; QtFL
 þmax 0; St þ QtI  RtEF  RtD max
 RtF ; QtFL
  C: ð12Þ
A simplified criterion for the compelling release QFL
t is
used, which neglects the effect of rainfall and only takes into
consideration the reservoir inflow and storage level, i.e.,
QtFL ¼
FL; if QtI  TI and ELt  TEL
0; otherwise
8<
: ; ð13Þ
where ELt = reservoir water level and TI and TEL = thresh-
olds for reservoir inflow and storage level, respectively. The
existing values currently used for the operation of Feitsui
Reservoir areFL= 500m3/s, TI = 1,000m3/s, and TEL = 165m
[TFRA, 2004]. The criterion for RF
t is such that when the
reservoir inflow and storage and the flow from the Nanshih
Creek are all exceeding the specified thresholds, the reser-
RtS ¼
1EF Q
t
I  Rtmin
 
; if max QtN  Tmin; 0
 
< Dt1 and Q
t
N þ QtI  Tmin < Dt1
1EF D
t
1 max QtN  Tmin; 0
  þ 2EF QtN þ QtI  Tmin  Dt1 ;
if max QtN  Tmin; 0
 
< Dt1 and D
t
1  QtN þ QtI  Tmin < Dt1 þ Dt2
TtS  1EF max QtN  Tmin; 0
  
;
if max QtN  Tmin; 0
 
< Dt1 and Q
t
N þ QtI  Tmin  Dt1 þ Dt2
2EFQ
t
I ;
if Dt1  max QtN  Tmin; 0
 
< Dt1 þ Dt2 and QtN þ QtI  Tmin < Dt1 þ Dt2
TtS  1EFDt1  2EF max QtN  Tmin; 0
  Dt1 ;
if Dt1  max QtN  Tmin; 0
 
< Dt1 þ Dt2 and QtN þ QtI  Tmin  Dt1 þ Dt2
0; if max QtN  Tmin; 0
   Dt1 þ Dt2
8>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>><
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>:
; ð10Þ
SHIAU AND WU: DUAL ACTIVE-RESTRICTIVE APPROACH W08515W08515
6 of 16
impact monthly flows, denoted as DHYG, defines the
alteration of the annual flow regime, i.e.,
DHYG ¼ 1
NY
XNY
i¼1
X12
j¼1
Q jN ;i  Q jA;i
 ; ð22Þ
where QN,i
j and QA,i
j = pre‐ and postimpact mean flows of the
jth month in the ith year.
[28] (4) Flow variability. The natural flow variability is an
important and necessary element for sustaining the integrity
of a riverine ecosystem [Richter et al., 1996]. The coeffi-
cient of variation (CV) of the daily flows was used to
quantify the flow variability [Clausen and Biggs, 1997,
2000]. The mean difference between the pre‐ and post-
impact CVs of the daily flows, denoted as DCV, defines the
overall alteration of the flow variability, as expressed by the
following equation:
DCV ¼ 1
NY
XNY
i¼1
CVN ;i  CVA;i
 ; ð23Þ
where CVN,i and CVA,i = pre‐ and postimpact CVs of the
daily flows in the ith year.
3.6. Multicriteria Optimization Framework
[29] To optimize the above‐mentioned eight evaluation
indices constitute amultiple criteria decision‐making (MCDM)
problem. The objective functions may be written as follows:
Minimize TSR; ADD; MSR; DFLD; DLF; DHYG;DCVf g
and Maximize MFAf g ð24Þ
The eight evaluation indices would cover different ranges of
values; thus the following relations were used to normalize
their values:
OBJi
0 ¼ OBJi min OBJið Þ
max OBJið Þ min OBJið Þ ð25aÞ
OBJi
0 ¼ max OBJið Þ  OBJi
max OBJið Þ min OBJið Þ ; ð25bÞ
where OBJi and OBJ ′i = original and normalized values of
the ith index; max(OBJi) and min(OBJi) = maximum and
minimum values of the ith index (see Table 2 for details).
Note that equations (25a) and (25b) were used for the
indices to be minimized and maximized, respectively.
Equations (25a) and (25b) ensure that the normalized indices
are bounded by [0, 1], with their most and least favorable
values being 0 and 1, respectively. As a result, equation (24)
can be rewritten as the minimization of all the normalized
indices, expressed by the following:
Minimize TSR0; ADD0; MSR0; MFA0; DFLD0; DLF 0; DHYG0;DCV 0f g
ð26Þ
[30] The multicriteria optimization problem posed by
equation (26) was solved using the technique for order
preference by similarity to ideal solution (TOPSIS) [Hwang
and Yoon, 1981]. The TOPSIS is a popular and widely used
approach to solving the MCDM problem [see e.g., Abo‐
Sinna and Amer, 2005; Cheng et al., 2006; Fu, 2008].
The basic idea behind this approach is that the best option is
the least distant one from the positive ideal solution (PIS)
and the most distant one from the negative ideal solution
(NIS). The weighted total distances to the PIS and NIS,
denoted as D+ and D−, were calculated by
Dþ ¼
X8
i¼1
wiðOBJi 0  OBJþÞ2 ð27aÞ
D ¼
X8
i¼1
wiðOBJi 0  OBJÞ2; ð27bÞ
wherewi = weighting factor for the ith index, and
P
i=1
8 wi = 1;
herein equal weighting was given to each index (i.e., wi =
0.125), OBJ + = 0 (= PIS), and OBJ − = 1 (= NIS). The
optimal solution was obtained by maximizing the relative
distance to the NIS, as expressed by the following:
Maximize D*f g ¼ Maximize D

Dþ þ D
	 

; ð28Þ
where D* = relative distance to D−. In this study, the optimal
solutions were searched with a genetic algorithm (GA)
[Deb, 2001], which started with a random parent population
of all decision variables. The objective functions corresponding
to each member of the population were calculated. The
TOPSIS was then used to evaluate D*. With the selection,
crossover, and mutation operators, an offspring population
was generated. A population size of 1000 was adopted
herein, and typical values of 0.8 and 0.05 were used for the
crossover and mutation rates. The GA procedure was
repeated until a stable solution was obtained.
[31] The proposed optimization framework was coupled
with the simulation model of the Feitsui Reservoir system
and applied to search of the optimal operation rules under
various scenarios (for details, see section 4). A total of 12
decision variables were involved in the optimization, which
included the environmental flow targets Tmin and TS
t;
thresholds for flood release TI, TN, and TEL; compelling
release FL; demand partitioning factor l; and the coeffi-
Table 2. Maximum and Minimum Values of the Eight Evaluation Indicesa
Index TSR (%) ADD (d/yr) MSR (%) MFA (m3/s) DFLD (m3/s) DLF (m3/s) DHYG (m3/s) DCV
Maximum 100 365.25 100 1631.1 1309.4 13.9 433.6 4.27
Minimum 0.04 0.25 0.86 0 0 0 0 0
aThese values were searched with a single‐objective genetic algorithm.
SHIAU AND WU: DUAL ACTIVE-RESTRICTIVE APPROACH W08515W08515
8 of 16
Weir were then computed with the simulation model, where
the decision variables were either specified or determined by
optimization, depending on the scenario adopted.
4.1. Current Operation Rules
[34] The effectiveness of the currently used operation
rules of the Feitsui Reservoir system on the domestic
supply and flood mitigation and the impacts of flow reg-
ulation on the flow regime below the Chingtan Weir
were evaluated. The outcomes associated with the current
operation rules are summarized in Table 3, where it is clear
that all the domestic supply indices are relatively low (TSR′ = 0,
ADD′ = 0.03, MSR′ = 0.23), whereas three of the environ-
mental flow indices are relatively high (DLF′ = 1,DHYG′ = 1,
DCV′ = 0.48), which reveals that the environmental flow
objectives are not well handled by the current operation rules
owing to a lack of the environmental flow target (i.e., Tmin =
TS
t = 0). However, the maximum shortage ratio MSR′ = 0.23,
corresponding to MSR = 23.8%, implies that the current
maximum deficit is well controlled, given that CRC
5 = 0.7
allows for a maximum level of MSR = 30%.
[35] The values of DLF′ = 1 and DHYG′ = 1 indicate that
the low‐flow characteristic and annual flow regime deviate
significantly from the natural status as demonstrated in
Figures 6 and 7. The persistent null values of the annual 7‐day
minimum flow (Figure 6) indicate that without preserving an
environmental minimum flow for the downstream reach
during the dry periods, the available water would be entirely
diverted to the domestic user. The postimpact monthly flow
hydrograph (Figure 7) reveals a nearly constant deviation
from the natural status, which is attributed to the nearly
constant daily diversions for the domestic supply (∼35.8m3/s,
from the data in Table 1). The pre‐ and postimpact CVs of the
daily flows are shown in Figure 8, where the outcome asso-
ciated with the current rules exhibits consistently the largest
deviations from the preimpact values, resulting in a relatively
large value of DCV′ (= 0.48). The elevated CV of the daily
flows arises from the many null postimpact flows (Figure 11)
due to a lack of the minimum flow release.
[36] In contrast to the relatively low values of the domestic
supply indices, the flood mitigation index MFA′ (= 0.46) is,
however, not as favorable as its counterpart reservoir indices.
Figure 7. Mean monthly flow hydrographs for the natural (preimpact) flow and the postimpact flows
below the Chingtan Weir under various operation scenarios.
Figure 8. Annual coefficients of variation of daily flows for the natural (preimpact) flow and the post-
impact flows below the Chingtan Weir under various operation scenarios.
SHIAU AND WU: DUAL ACTIVE-RESTRICTIVE APPROACH W08515W08515
10 of 16
current null value, ADD′ increases to 0.23 from the current
value of 0.03, and MSR′ increases to 0.47 from the current
0.23. The flood attenuation index MFA′, however, reduces
to 0.35 from the current value of 0.46. This improvement is
achieved thanks to the spare capacity that becomes available
when the environmental flow release is implemented.
[38] The environmental flow targets associated with sce-
nario 1 are Tmin = 10.4 m
3/s (upper limit) and TS
t = 0.8 m3/s
(see Table 3). The monthly values of TEF
t , derived from the
ratios of TS
t listed in Table 1, are demonstrated in Figure 10,
where TEF
t vary within a limited range between 11.0 and
13.8 m3/s due to the time‐varying component TS
t being
much less than the constant component Tmin. As a result, the
postimpact flows exhibit a relatively flat pattern in contrast
to the preimpact flows, as shown in Figure 11a, where the
daily flows below the Chingtan Weir are demonstrated for
2003, the driest year during the study period. Because of
the top priority given to the minimum flow target Tmin, the
postimpact flows corresponding to scenario 1 exhibit an
improvement over the current postimpact flows in such a
way that the base flow is well secured. Despite that the
postimpact hydrograph exhibits considerable deviations
from the preimpact one, the pre‐ and postimpact annual 1‐day
maximum flows consistently take place on September 11,
with the natural flood (460 m3/s) being attenuated to the
postimpact value of 198 m3/s. The daily flow deficits for the
domestic supply (Figure 12), however, reveal that the water
shortages associated with scenario 1 are almost entirely
greater than the corresponding values associated with the
current rules, with only rare exceptions found in the large
floods. The coefficients of domestic release, CRC
3 , CRC
4 , and
CRC
5 , reduce to 0.6, 0.53, and 0.53, indicating that the cur-
rently used values (1, 0.9, and 0.7) become suboptimal when
the environmental flows are taken into account. The maxi-
mum shortage ratio MSR′ = 0.47, as noted earlier, corre-
sponds to CRC5 = 0.53 that allows for a maximum of 47%
shortage.
4.3. Scenario 2: Fully Active Strategy
[39] A fully active strategy was implemented by holding
constant the value of l = 1 in the optimization framework,
such that no restrictions were imposed on the domestic
Figure 11. Natural (preimpact) daily flows and the postimpact daily flows below the Chingtan Weir
under various operation scenarios (for 2003). Both the natural and postimpact maximum flows occurred
on September 11, when the natural flood 460 m3/s was attenuated to the postimpact value of 198 m3/s.
SHIAU AND WU: DUAL ACTIVE-RESTRICTIVE APPROACH W08515W08515
12 of 16
overall performance of scenario 4 is similar to that associated
with the existing operation rules, with the value ofD* = 0.576
being slightly improved over the current value (0.56) thanks
to the greatly elevated values of TEF
t , or TS
t (see Figure 10),
leading to a moderate improvement in DCV ′ (from 0.48 to
0.32) and a slight improvement inDHYG′ (from 1 to 0.98) as
demonstrated in Figures 7, 8, and 11b.
[45] In contrast, the domestic supply indices are all
slightly deteriorated from the current values, as shown in
Figure 12, which is also attributable to the greatly elevated
value of TS
t. With the specifications of l = 1 and Tmin = 0,
the annual low‐flow characteristic is simply a replicate of
the current status (Figure 6), both with the unfavorable value
of DLF′ = 1. The coefficients of domestic release are,
however, similar to the values currently used, except that a
smaller value of CRC
4 = 0.69 is associated with scenario 4,
implying that the current value of CRC
4 (0.9) is suboptimal
even for a scenario whose outcome exhibits a close resem-
blance to the current status.
4.6. Overall Comparison
[46] The five operational scenarios investigated herein
represent typically different strategies that may be classified
into two groups. The first group comprises the current
operation rules and scenario 4; the second group includes
scenarios 1–3. For the scenarios in the first group, the values
of l = 1 and Tmin = 0 were specified, implying that these are
the domestic demand‐dominated scenarios. The key differ-
ence between the two scenarios in the first group lies in a
degree of freedom for TS
t that is given to scenario 4, which
would compensate for the eliminated Tmin. However, with l =
1, the greatly elevated value of TS
t is merely a second‐priority
demand in contrast to the first‐priority domestic demand. As a
result, the improvement achieved by scenario 4 over the
existing operation rules is rather limited, implying that a
significant improvement in the overall performance would
be difficult when the active and restrictive parameters, Tmin
and l, are both fully favorable to the domestic demand.
[47] For the scenarios in the second group, a degree of
freedom is preserved for either the active parameter Tmin or
the restrictive parameter l, or both. Compared to the out-
comes of the first group, the environmental flow indices of
the second group are considerably improved at the cost of
the degraded domestic supply indices. Among all the sce-
narios tested, the best overall performance is associated with
the optimal dual strategy (scenario 1), for which the active
and restrictive parameters are both determined by optimi-
zation. The optimal environmental flow target may well be a
top‐priority constant base flow rather than the variable
quantities if the restrictive parameter l is involved as a
decision variable in the multicriteria optimization. The fully
active strategy (scenario 2) would outperform the restrictive
strategy (scenario 3). The outcome of the fully active strategy
exhibits a close resemblance to that of the optimal dual
strategy. For the fully active strategy to be optimal, a top‐
priority base flow target Tmin is essential. For the restrictive
strategy, the optimal value of l can be vanishingly small in
compensation for the eliminated Tmin, thus promoting the
monthly flow target TS
t as nearly the top‐priority demand. In
summary, for either the active or restrictive strategy, a pri-
oritized environmental flow demand, though inevitably
deteriorating the water supply performance, would provide a
path toward the optimal overall performance of the reservoir
operation.
[48] It should be noted that the large‐flood index DFLD′
remains identically as 0.03 for the five scenarios performed.
Because DFLD′ is evaluated from the pre‐ and postimpact
5‐year floods and such floods are determined from the
annual 1‐day maximum flow series, the identical values of
DFLD′ appear to indicate that the large‐flood characteristic
is not affected much by the operation rules adopted. As
noted earlier, such results stem from the fact that the post-
impact flows below the Chingtan Weir are a combined result
of the flows from the Nanshih and Peishih creeks. For the
single annual extreme event, the postimpact flows associ-
ated with various scenarios would literally exhibit no dif-
ference because of the extreme flow from the Nanshih Creek
and the large spill from the reservoir (Figure 11). Similarly,
the values of MFA′ remain identically as 0.35 for scenarios
1–4 because the maximum flood attenuation during the
study period takes place consistently on August 24, 1996,
regardless of the scenario adopted. With the reservoir inflow
as high as 1060 m3/s, the minimum and monthly flow targets
can be fully attained. As a consequence, the release of envi-
ronmental flows would facilitate the spare capacity for a
complete attenuation of the reservoir inflow (i.e., spill = 0),
leading to the reduction of MFA′ to 0.35 from the current
value of 0.46. Moreover, the results also reveal that the
thresholds for flood release, TI and TEL, in scenarios 1–4 are
consistently greater than the currently used values (Table 3),
whereas the compelling releases FL in these four scenarios
are consistently smaller than the currently used value, which
can be also taken as the benefits of releasing the environ-
mental flows. On the basis of the flood‐related evaluation
indices, it can be inferred that the flood‐related objectives are
unlikely improved further with the modifications of the active
and restrictive strategies, thus play only minor roles in the
proposed multicriteria optimization.
5. Conclusions
[49] Reallocation of water resources to the existing off‐
stream user and newly incorporated environmental sector
constitutes a difficult task that should be implemented in a
balanced manner to ensure effective sharing of water. The
demand management has been proposed as an alternative to
promote a more balanced reallocation framework, where the
reducing water demands should be shared among sectors to
secure the optimal overall performance. In this paper we
present a dual active‐restrictive approach to devising the
optimal reservoir operation rules aiming to secure off‐stream
water supplies while maximizing environmental benefits. For
the active part, a multicomponent environmental flow target
(including the base flow and monthly flow components) is
incorporated into the reservoir operation rules. For the
restrictive counterpart, we use a novel DPP approach to
reallocating the demands of various sectors. The proposed
approach is integrated with a multicriteria optimization
framework to seek the optimal operation rules for the Feitsui
Reservoir system under various operation scenarios.
[50] The results reveal that the best overall performance is
associated with an optimal dual strategy (scenario 1) whose
operational parameters are all determined by optimization.
The corresponding optimal environmental flow target may
well be a top‐priority constant base flow rather than the
SHIAU AND WU: DUAL ACTIVE-RESTRICTIVE APPROACH W08515W08515
14 of 16
References
Abo‐Sinna, M. A., and A. H. Amer (2005), Extensions of TOPSIS for multi‐
objective large‐scale nonlinear programming problem, Appl. Math. Com-
put., 162(1), 243–256.
Arthington, A. H., and B. J. Pusey (2003), Flow restoration and protection
in Australian rivers, River Res. Applic., 19, 377–395.
Arthington, A. H., S. E. Bunn, N. L. Poff, and R. Naiman (2006), The chal-
lenge of providing environmental flow rules to sustain river ecosystems,
Ecol. Applic., 16(4), 1311–1318.
Cheng, C. T., H. Y. Zhao, K. W. Chau, and X. Y. Wu (2006), Using
genetic algorithm and TOPSIS for Xinanjiang model calibration with a
single procedure, J. Hydrol., 316, 129–140.
Clausen, B., and B. J. F. Biggs (1997), Relationships between benthic biota
and hydrological indices inNewZealand streams,Freshwater Biol., 38(2),
327–342.
Clausen, B., and B. J. F. Biggs (2000), Flow variables for ecological studies in
temperate streams: groupings based on covariance, J. Hydrol., 237(3–4),
184–197.
Deb, K. (2001), Multi‐Objective Optimization Using Evolutionary Algo-
rithms, John Wiley, Hoboken, N. J.
Dyson, M., G. Bergkamp, and J. Scanlon (2003), Flow: The Essentials of
Environmental Flows, International Union for Conservation of Nature
and Natural Resources (IUCN), Gland, Switzerland, and Cambridge,
U. K.
Environmental Protection Administration (2008), Environmental Water
Right as a Future Environmental Policy, Taipei, Taiwan.
Fu, G. (2008), A fuzzy optimization method for multicriteria decision making:
An application to reservoir flood control operation, Expert Syst. Applic.,
34(1), 145–149.
Harman, C., and M. Stewardson (2005), Optimizing dam release rules to
meet environmental flow targets, River Res. Applic., 21(2–3), 113–129.
Hughes, D. A., and S. J. L. Mallory (2008), Including environmental
requirements as part of real‐time water resources managements, River
Res. Applic., 24(6), 852–861.
Hughes, D. A., and G. Ziervogel (1998), The inclusion of operating rule in
a daily reservoir simulation model to determine ecological reserve releases
for river maintenance, Water SA, 24(4), 293–302.
Hughes, D. A., J. O’Keeffe, V. Smakhtin, and J. King (1997), Development
of an operating rule model to simulate time series of reservoir releases for
instream flow requirements, Water SA, 23(1), 21–30.
Hwang, C. L., and K. Yoon (1981), Multiple Attribute Decision Making:
Methods and Applications, Springer‐Verlag, Berlin.
Jowett, I. G., and B. J. F. Biggs (2006), Flow regime requirements and the
biological effectiveness of habit‐based minimum flow assessments for
six rivers, Int. J. River Basin Manage., 4(3), 179–189.
Lankford, B. A. (2003), Environmental water requirements: A demand
management perspective, J. Chartered Inst. Water Environ. Manage.,
17(1), 19–22.
Ligon, F. K., W. E. Dietrich, and W. J. Trush (1995), Downstream ecolog-
ical effects of dams, BioScience, 45(3), 183–192.
Magilligan, F. J., and K. H. Nislow (2005), Changes in hydrologic regime
by dams, Geomorphology, 71(1–2), 61–78.
Magilligan, F. J., K. H. Nislow, and B. E. Graber (2003), Scale‐independent
assessment of discharge reduction and riparian disconnectivity following
flow regulation by dams, Geology, 31(7), 569–572.
Poff, N. L., J. D. Allan, M. B. Bain, J. R. Karr, B. D. Prestegaard, B. D.
Richter, R. E. Sparks, and J. C. Stromberg (1997), The natural flow
regime: A paradigm for river conservation and restoration, BioScience,
47(11), 769–784.
Postel, S., and B. D. Richter (2003), Rivers for Life: Managing Water for
People and Nature, Island Press, Washington D. C., USA.
Richter, B. D., J. V. Baumgartner, J. Powell, and D. P. Braun (1996), A
method for assessing hydrologic alteration within ecosystems, Conserv.
Biol., 10(4), 1163–1174.
Richter, B. D., R. Mathews, D. L. Harrison, and R. Wigington (2003), Eco-
logically sustainable water management: managing river flows for ecolog-
ical integrity, Ecol. Applic., 13, 206–224.
Richter, B. D., A. T. Warner, J. L. Meyer, and K. Lutz (2006), A collabo-
rative and adaptive process for developing environmental flow recom-
mendations, River Res. Applic., 22(3), 297–318.
Shiau, J. T., and F. C. Wu (2004a), Assessment of hydrologic alterations
caused by Chi‐Chi diversion weir in Chou‐Shui Creek, Taiwan: Oppor-
tunities for restoring natural flow conditions, River Res. Applic., 20(4),
401–412.
Shiau, J. T., and F. C. Wu (2004b), Feasible diversion and instream flow
release using range of variability approach, J.Water Res. PlanningManage.,
130(5), 395–404.
Shiau, J. T., and F. C. Wu (2006), Compromise programming methodology
for determining instream flow under multiobjective water allocation cri-
teria, J. Am. Water Res. Assoc., 42(5), 1179–1191.
Shiau, J. T., and F. C. Wu (2007a), A dynamic corridor‐searching algo-
rithm to seek time‐varying instream flow releases for optimal weir oper-
ation: Comparing three indices of overall hydrologic alteration, River
Res. Applic., 23(1), 35–53.
Shiau, J. T., and F. C. Wu (2007b), Pareto‐optimal solutions for environ-
mental flow schemes incorporating the intra‐annual and interannual var-
iability of the natural flow regime, Water Resour. Res., 43, W06433,
doi:10.1029/2006WR005523.
Shiau, J. T., and F. C. Wu (2008), A histogram matching approach for
assessment of flow regime alteration: Application to environmental flow
optimization, River Res. Applic., 24(7), 914–928.
Shiau, J. T., and H. C. Lee (2005), Derivation optimal hedging rules for a
water‐supply reservoir through compromise programming, Water Res.
Manage., 19(5), 111–132.
Shiau, J. T., and F. C. Wu (2009), Regionalization of natural flow regime:
Application to environmental flow optimization at ungauged sites, River
Res. Applic., 25(9), 1071–1089.
Suen, J. P., and J.W. Eheart (2006), Reservoir management to balance ecosys-
tem and human needs: Incorporating the paradigm of the ecological flow
regime,Water Resour. Res., 42(3), W03417, doi:10.1029/2005WR004314.
Syme, G. J., B. E. Nancarrow, and J. A. McCreddin (1999), Defining the
components of fairness in the allocation of water to environmental and
human uses, J. Environ. Manage., 57, 51–70.
Taipei Feitsui Reservoir Administration (TFRA) (2004), Regulation Rules
of the Feitsui Reservoir, Taipei, Taiwan.
Tharme, R. E. (2003), A global perspective on environmental flow assess-
ment: Emerging trends in the development and application of environ-
mental flow methodologies for rivers, River Res. Applic., 19(5–6),
397–441.
The Nature Conservancy (2005),User’s Manual for the Indicators of Hydro-
logic Alteration (IHA) Software, TheNature Conservancy, Charlottesville,
Va., USA.(www.nature.org/initiatives/freshwater)
Van Steeter, M. M., and J. Pitlick (1998), Geomorphology and endangered
fish habitats of the upper Colorado River 1. Historic changes in stream-
flow, sediment load, and channel morphology,Water Resour. Res., 34(2),
287–302, doi:10.1029/97WR02766.
Wallace, J. S., M. C. Acreman, and C. A. Sullivan (2003), The sharing of
water between society and ecosystems: from conflict to catchment‐based
co‐management, Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B, 358, 2011–2026.
Wang, L., L. Fang, and K. W. Hipel (2007), Mathematical programming
approaches for modeling water rights allocation, J. Water Res. Planning
Manage., 133(1), 50–59.
Water Conservancy Department (1999), Feasibility Study on the Diversion
Engineering of the Hsintien Creek, Taichung, Taiwan.
Whiting, P. J. (2002), Streamflow necessary for environmental mainte-
nance, Ann. Rev. Earth Planetary Sci., 30(1), 181–206.
J.‐T. Shiau, Department of Hydraulic and Ocean Engineering, National
Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701, Taiwan.
F.‐C. Wu, Department of Bioenvironmental Systems Engineering,
Hydrotech Research Institute and Center for Ecological Engineering,
National Taiwan University, Taipei 106, Taiwan. (fcwu@ntu.edu.tw)
SHIAU AND WU: DUAL ACTIVE-RESTRICTIVE APPROACH W08515W08515
16 of 16
REGIONALIZATION OF NATURAL FLOW REGIME: APPLICATION TO
ENVIRONMENTAL FLOW OPTIMIZATION AT UNGAUGED SITES
JENQ-TZONG SHIAUa and FU-CHUN WUb*
aDepartment of Hydraulic and Ocean Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701, Taiwan
bDepartment of Bioenvironmental Systems Engineering, Hydrotech Research Institute and Center for Ecological Engineering,
National Taiwan University, Taipei 106, Taiwan
ABSTRACT
In this work we use the regionalization approach (RA) to derive the natural flow regime at an ungauged site. The derived natural
flow regime, expressed by the regional cdf models of 32 indicators of hydrologic alteration (IHA) is used in the histogram
matching approach (HMA) to seek the optimal environmental flows for a proposed multiobjective diversion weir in Taiwan. The
results reveal that the outcomes associated with the planning constant scheme are significantly improved by the optimal time-
varying scheme. The histogram dissimilarities of 32 IHA associated with the planning scheme are consistently greater than those
associated with the optimal scheme, especially for low-flow IHA. Despite the inherent discrepancy between different approaches
to generating flow data at the ungauged site, the optimal outcomes resulting from the RA-based natural flow regime appear to
be plausible and consistent with those reported in the previous work, thus validating the RA used in this work. We also explore
the effect of weighting factors on the optimal outcomes. The results reveal that the weighting factor of the ecosystem needs
objective dominates all optimal outcomes, while those of the agricultural demands and interbasin transfers objectives haveminor
effects on the optimal outcomes. The global optimal solution is obtained with a full or null weighting assigned to the ecosystem
needs objective, while the least optimal solution is obtained as the interbasin transfers objective is given a null weighting and the
agricultural demands objective is weighted more than the ecosystem needs objective. River managers and decision makers may
select more balanced weir operation strategies based on the results presented in this work. Copyright # 2008 John Wiley &
Sons, Ltd.
key words: regionalization approach (RA); index flood method (IFM); indicators of hydrologic alteration (IHA); histogram matching
approach (HMA)
Received 30 March 2008; Revised 21 July 2008; Accepted 18 September 2008
INTRODUCTION
Planning and development of water resources often demands one to cope with the problem of scarce data. For this
reason, the International Association of Hydrological Sciences (IAHS) has promoted the prediction in ungauged
basins (PUB) initiative for advancing hydrologic predictions in ungauged basins (Sivapalan, 2003). This same
problem now increasingly receives attention from the river conservation/restoration community because
establishment of management criteria and assessment of hydrologic impacts rely heavily on sufficient records of
flow. For example, Richter et al. (1997) suggested that at least 20 years of daily flows are required for defining the
natural ranges of flow variability. The reality, however, is that flow records in many project sites hardly meet this
requirement.
A line of approaches to tackle such a problem is pooling at-site information within a hydrologically similar
region and scaling the derived regional model to the ungauged sites. This has been conceptually described as
‘trading space for time’ (Hosking andWallis, 1997). Thorough reviews of the regionalization approaches (RA) can
be found in Cunnane (1988) and GREHYS (1996). Among the existing RA, the index flood method (IFM),
RIVER RESEARCH AND APPLICATIONS
River. Res. Applic. 25: 1071–1089 (2009)
Published online 21 November 2008 in Wiley InterScience
(www.interscience.wiley.com) DOI: 10.1002/rra.1207
*Correspondence to: Fu-Chun Wu, Department of Bioenvironmental Systems Engineering, Hydrotech Research Institute and Center for
Ecological Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei 106, Taiwan. E-mail: fcwu@ntu.edu.tw
Abbreviations: cdf, cumulative distribution function; GEV, generalized extreme-value distribution; GLO, generalized logistic distribution;
GPA, generalized Pareto distribution; HMA, histogrammatching approach; IAHS, international association of hydrological sciences; IFM, index
flood method; IHA, indicators of hydrologic alteration; LN3, three-parameter lognormal distribution; PE3, pearson type III distribution; PUB,
prediction in ungauged basins; RA, regionalization approach; RVA, range of variability approach
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Quantifying natural and altered flow regimes using the above IHA-based approaches would also require
sufficient records of flow that are unavailable at many project sites. In this work we use the RA to derive the natural
flow regime at an ungauged site, which is integrated with the HMA to seek the optimal environmental flow scheme
for a proposed multiobjective diversion weir. The effect of weighting factors on the optimal outcomes is also
investigated, and the implications for river management are discussed.
METHODS
In this section, the IFM used for regionalization of the natural flow regime is briefly summarized. The derived
regional models for the 32 IHA are then scaled to the ungauged site using a distribution model. The IHA-based
HMA used to assess flow regime alterations is described in the last part of this section.
Regionalization approach (RA)
The RA combines the available data fromN sites in a homogeneous region to derive the regional model. The IFM
is adopted herein because of its simplicity and popularity. The key assumption of the IFM is that the frequency
distributions of the N sites are identical apart from a site-specific scaling factor, called ‘index flood’, that reflects the
hydrologic and physiographic characteristics of a site. This relation can be expressed as
QðiÞðFÞ ¼ mðiÞQðRÞðFÞ; i ¼ 1; 2; . . . ;N (1)
whereQ(i)(F) is the quantile of nonexceedance probability F at site i,m(i) the index flood at site i, which is the mean
value of the at-site frequency distribution, Q(R)(F) the regional quantile of nonexceedance probability F. It is
assumed that the regional quantile function Q(R)(F) has a known form apart from p parameters u
ðRÞ
1 ;    ; uðRÞp ,
estimated with the at-site parameters weighted by the record length, that is
u
ðRÞ
k ¼
PN
i¼1
niu
ðiÞ
k
PN
i¼1
ni
; k ¼ 1;2; . . . ;p (2)
where ni is the record length at site i, u
ðiÞ
k the kth parameter at site i, taken to be the L-moment and L-moment ratios
of the non-dimensionalized data (¼observed data scaled by the at-site index flood) (Hosking and Wallis, 1993). In
other words, the parameters of the regional quantile function are the record-length weighted averages of the at-site
L-moments and L-moment ratios.
L-moments are linear combinations of probability-weighted moments (Hosking, 1990), which can be
expressed as
lrþ1 ¼
Xr
m¼0
1ð Þrm r
m
 
r þ m
m
 
bm (3)
where lrþ1 is the (rþ1)th L-moment, bm the mth probability-weighted moment, defined as
bm ¼ 1
n
Xn
j¼rþ1
j 1ð Þ j 2ð Þ    j mð Þ
n 1ð Þ n 2ð Þ    n mð Þ xj (4)
where xj denotes the ordered data (i.e. x1 x2 . . . xn), and n is the number of observed data. Hosking (1990) also
defined L-moment ratios as
t ¼ l2
l1
; tr ¼ lrl2 ; r ¼ 3;4; . . . (5)
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 25: 1071–1089 (2009)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
NATURAL FLOW REGIME AT UNGAUGED SITE 1073
Histogram matching approach (HMA)
The HMA is recently proposed by the authors (Shiau and Wu, 2008), which aims to eliminate the drawbacks of
the RVA. The central idea behind the HMA is that two flow regimes would be similar if their corresponding
frequency histograms of individual IHA exhibit resemblances, which can be measured using the ‘statistical
distances’ between the natural and altered histograms. As such, flow regime alterations can be assessed with a
distance-based dissimilarity metric. The procedure of HMA is briefly summarized here. The readers are referred to
the original work for details.
The difference between two frequency histograms is indicated by a scaled ‘degree of histogram dissimilarity’,
which is defined as
Dm ¼ dm
maxðdmÞ  100%; m ¼ 1; . . . ; 32 (10)
where Dm¼ degree of histogram dissimilarity for the mth IHA, dm¼ quadratic-form distance of the mth IHA,
evaluated by
dm ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
h kj jð ÞTA h kj jð Þ
q
; m ¼ 1; . . . ; 32 (11)
in which h ¼ ðh1; h2; . . . ;hncÞT and k ¼ ðk1; k2; . . . ;kncÞT are frequency vectors of the pre- and post-impact
histograms H and K, respectively, where nc¼ total number of classes; h kj j ¼ statistical distance vector;
A ¼ ½aij ¼ similarity matrix, where aij¼ similarity between class i of H and class j of K, and is given by
aij ¼ 1 dij
dmax
 a
(12)
where dij¼ |Vi –Vj |¼ ground distance between class i of H and class j of K, in which Vi and Vj are mean values of
classes i and j; dmax ¼ maxðdijÞ ¼ V1  Vncj j; values of a range between 1 and1, here a linear similarity function
with a ¼ 1 is adopted. An appropriate number of classes is determined by nc ¼ rn1=3=2riq, where r¼ data
range¼ difference between the 0.995- and 0.005-quantile values of a probability distribution; n¼ total number of
data; riq¼ inter-quartile range¼ difference between the third- and first-quartile values. The maximum value of dm
is determined by maxðdmÞ ¼ ½4 2=ðnc;m  1Þ1=2, where nc;m¼value of nc adopted for the mth IHA.
Because individual values of Dm may exhibit different levels of dissimilarity, an integrative index is used to
evaluate the ‘overall degree of hydrologic alteration’, that is
DO ¼ 1
32
X32
m¼1
D2m
 !1
2
(13)
minimizing DO is regarded as equivalent to best preserving the natural flow regime, thus is taken to be a surrogate
objective of ecosystem needs in our case study, which is described in the following.
CASE STUDY
Overview of Kaoping Creek basin
The Kaoping Creek is located in Southern Taiwan (Figure 1), with a length of 171 km and a drainage area of
3257 km2. The downstream alluvial plain is a major agricultural area. However, groundwater overdraft has caused
negative impacts such as land subsidence and saltwater intrusion. To mitigate these impacts and provide an
alternative source of water, currently two diversion facilities, that is, Kaoping and Chiahsien diversion weirs, are
serving to supply stable water resources for domestic needs in the Kaoping Creek basin.
To further develop the water resources in the Kaoping Creek basin, several plans have been proposed. The
Laonung diversion weir is among the proposed plans, and has passed the environmental impact assessment (WRA,
2003). The proposed Laonung diversion weir, located at the midstream Laonung Creek (a major tributary of the
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 25: 1071–1089 (2009)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
NATURAL FLOW REGIME AT UNGAUGED SITE 1075
information of these gauge stations is summarized in Table III, and their locations are shown in Figure 1. The record
lengths of these gauge stations range from 11 to 48 years, the drainage areas of these stations range from 300 to
3000 km2. The monthly mean flows at these stations are shown in Table IV, where highly fluctuating and unevenly
distributed flow patterns are observed.
The regional models for individual IHA are constructed using the flow data available at these existing gauge
stations. The procedure is as follows:
1. Computing the annual series of each IHA for all station sites.
2. Computing the mean value (i.e. scaling factor) of each IHA for all station sites.
3. Converting the annual series of each IHA to the non-dimensionalized annual series.
4. Computing L-moments and L-moment ratios of the non-dimensionalized annual series.
5. Combining the at-site parameters of each IHA into the regional parameters.
6. Computing the L-moment-based statistics.
7. Determining the best fit regional cdf model for each IHA.
The discordancy and heterogeneity measures (Di and H) and the best-fit regional cdf models (with minimal | Z |)
for all IHA are listed in Table V, which are summarized below.
Discordancy measures
The criterion value ofDi is 1.333 when the number of sites is equal to 5 (Hosking andWallis, 1997). As shown in
Table V, almost all the Di values are less than this criterion. Only two sites (i.e. Laonung and Mincho stations) have
Table II. Registered agricultural demands and projected interbasin transfers at the proposed Laonung diversion weir (units
in m3/s)
Month January February March April May June July August September October November December
Registered
agricultural demands
9.4 9.4 9.3 9.3 11.1 14.2 14.4 14.8 14.7 14.8 11.1 9.8
Projected
interbasin transfers
0 0 0 0 50 50 50 50 50 50 0 0
Table III. Basic information of five existing gauge stations in Kaoping Creek basin
Gauge station Drainage area (km2) Record length (year)
Laonung (1730H031) 812.0 48 (1959–2006)
Tachin (1730H035) 360.2 19 (1964–1982)
Mincho (1730H037) 303.6 11 (1975–1985)
Meishan (1730H038) 391.7 17 (1977–1993)
Lilin Bridge (1730H043) 2894.8 14 (1991–2004)
Table IV. Monthly mean flows at existing gauge stations and proposed Laonung diversion weir site (units in m3/s)
Station (or site) January February March April May June July August September October November December
Laonung 14.1 15.8 23.5 31.7 62.9 165.3 117.2 167.6 114.1 55.4 25.7 16.9
Tachin 5.3 4.5 4.9 6.3 29.3 121.6 84.7 108.3 58.5 31.6 10.5 6.2
Mincho 3.6 5.7 8.0 7.9 29.0 67.4 49.0 67.9 37.6 13.9 6.4 4.2
Meishan 7.5 10.6 15.4 21.9 33.8 67.8 40.5 57.5 48.4 22.6 13.2 8.7
Lilin Bridge 31.2 40.3 52.1 63.5 157.3 431.9 461.8 659.5 406.8 158.4 76.3 43.3
Laonung weir 10.4 13.0 18.7 22.4 53.6 146.5 122.6 172.0 108.1 46.9 21.8 13.2
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 25: 1071–1089 (2009)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
NATURAL FLOW REGIME AT UNGAUGED SITE 1077
To further test the reliability of the derived regional models (i.e. the best fit cdf models and scaling factors), the
histograms of 32 IHA at the five existing stations are constructed using these regional models. Differences between
the constructed and observed histograms are measured by the mean value of 32 degrees of histogram dissimilarity.
The mean degrees of histogram dissimilarity at these existing stations range from 14.8% to 25.4%, indicating that
the errors associated with the derived regional models are within an acceptable range.
Here, we take the mean flow of January as an example to illustrate how the cdf at an ungauged site is obtained
using the derived regional model. The best fit regional cdf model for the mean flow of January is GLO distribution
(see Table V). Based on the IFM, the cdf at site i can be expressed as
FðxÞ ¼ 1
1þ 1þ 1:95 x
mðiÞ  0:919
 	h i3:39 (14)
where m(i)¼ scaling factor (or index flood) at site i, which is taken to be the mean value of each IHA. The best-fit
cdfs for the five existing stations are shown in Figure 2(a) (with their scaling factors being 14.1, 5.3, 3.6, 7.5 and
31.2m3/s, respectively), where the observed data demonstrate satisfactory agreement with the best fit cdfs. Shown
in Figure 2(b) are the observed data and best fit cdfs of five IHA selected from different groups, which include the
mean flow of April (G1), annual 30-day maximum flow (G2), date of annual 1-day minimum flow (G3), high pulse
Figure 2. (a) Best fit and derived cdfs and observed data for monthly flow of January at five existing gauge stations and proposed Laonung
diversion weir site; (b) best fit cdfs and observed data for five IHA at Laonung gauge station
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 25: 1071–1089 (2009)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
NATURAL FLOW REGIME AT UNGAUGED SITE 1079
duration (G4) and flow rise rate (G5) at the Laonung gauge station. The observed data of these IHA also exhibit
satisfactory agreement with their best fit cdfs.
Natural flow regime at ungauged site
To apply Equation (9), the relations between scaling factor and drainage area at the ungauged site are established
for individual IHA, which are summarized in Table V together with the corresponding coefficients of determination
R2. The scaling factors of some IHA (i.e. base flow, dates of annual 1-day maximum and minimum flows, low and
high pulse durations) exhibit no significant correlations to the drainage area and are probably related to other
characteristics of the drainage basin, thus are taken to be constant for simplicity. As an illustration example, the
relation between the mean flow of January and drainage area, derived with the data from five existing stations, is
given below (shown in Figure 3):
mðiÞ ¼ 65:6þ 27:8 logðAðiÞÞ; R2 ¼ 0:99 (15)
in which m(i)¼mean flow of January (m3/s) at site i, and A(i)¼ drainage area (km2) at site i. As such, the value of
m(i) at an ungauged site can be determined with the given value of A(i) and the cdf at this ungauged site is obtained by
Equation (14). It should be noted that the derived relations between the scaling factor and drainage area are not
recommended for use beyond their applicable range of drainage area (between 300 and 3000 km2). Given the
drainage area of 542 km2 at the proposed Laonung diversion weir site, the monthly mean flows can be evaluated
(Table IV), and the cdf for the mean flow of January is obtained and shown in Figure 2(a). The frequency histograms
derived from this cdf are shown in Figure 4(a), which are then compared to the histograms of the post-diversion
flows for assessment of the flow regime alterations. The post-diversion flow series are obtained via the weir
operation model, as described below.
Weir operation model
The water-supply objectives of the proposed Laonung diversion weir are to meet the agricultural and interbasin
transfer water demands. Since the post-diversion flows vary as a function of environmental flow prescriptions, a
weir operation model is used to simulate the flows diverted for water supplies and released for ecosystem
preservation.
The system of flows at the proposed Laonung diversion weir site is depicted in Figure 5, where three criteria are
considered at time t, including the environmental flow prescription QtEF, registered agricultural demand Q
t
A and
projected interbasin transfer QtD; Q
t
I denotes the natural (or pre-diversion) inflow; Q
t
AA denotes the amount of flow
actually diverted for supplying agricultural demands; QtAD denotes the amount of flow actually diverted for
interbasin transfer; QtO denotes the post-diversion outflow. The registered agricultural demands Q
t
A and projected
interbasin transfersQtD are given in Table II, as suchQ
t
EF are the only decision variables to be specified. In this study,
a monthly varying environmental flow scheme is adopted, thus a total of 12QtEF values are prescribed. The priorities
of water allocation are: the first priority is given to the environmental flows, the second is given to the registered
agricultural demands and the lowest priority is given to the projected interbasin transfers. The operating rules of the
proposed Laonung diversion weir are given as follows:
QtO ¼ QtI;QtAA ¼ 0;QtAD ¼ 0 if QtI < QtEF
QtO ¼ QtEF;QtAA ¼ QtI  QtEF;QtAD ¼ 0 if QtEF  QtI < QtEF þ QtA
QtO ¼ QtEF;QtAA ¼ QtA;QtAD ¼ QtI  QtEF  QtA if QtEF þ QtA  QtI < QtEF þ QtA þ QtD
QtO ¼ QtI  QtAA  QtAD;QtAA ¼ QtA;QtAD ¼ QtD if QtI > QtEF þ QtA þ QtD
8><
>: (16)
The post-diversion flows, QtO, are used to assess the degree of hydrologic alteration. The flow series actually
diverted for supplying the agricultural demands and interbasin transfers, QtAA and Q
t
AD, are used to evaluate the
water-supply performances, which are indicated by the shortage ratio and annual interbasin transfers, as described
in the following.
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 25: 1071–1089 (2009)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
NATURAL FLOW REGIME AT UNGAUGED SITE 1081
The objective function can be expressed as
Min fDOg; Min fSRg and Max fADg (19)
Optimization problems involving multiple conflicting objectives introduce Pareto tradeoff solutions rather than a
single optimal solution. Because the aim of this study is to derive the regional natural flow regime and seek an
optimal environmental flow scheme at an ungauged site rather than fully explore the Pareto tradeoff solutions, an
aggregated multiobjective optimization genetic algorithm is used instead to find the optimal solution of a rescaled
and aggregated objective function, which is expressed by
Min L ¼ Min w1 DO  DO;min
DO;max  DO;min
 2
þ w2 SR SRmin
SRmax  SRmin
 2
þ w3 ADmax  AD
ADmax  ADmin
 2" #12
(20)
where L is the value of objective function; the subscripts max and min denote the maximum and minimum values;
w1,w2 andw3 are the weighting factors, by definition w1þw2þw3¼ 1. The values ofDO,max, SRmin and ADmax are
obtained with an extreme condition of QtEF ¼ 0, whereas DO,min, SRmax and ADmin correspond to QtAD ¼ 0 and
QtAA ¼ 0. The optimal set ofQtEF is sought with a simple genetic algorithm (Haupt and Haupt, 2004), the population
size¼ 1000, crossover and mutation rates¼ 0.8 and 0.05, respectively. The selection, crossover and mutation
operators are used to iteratively evolve a population towards the true optimal solution. The procedure is repeated
until a stable solution is reached. The optimal solution so obtained is a compromise between the human and
ecosystem needs objectives.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Optimal environmental flows
To determine the optimal environmental flows by the weir operation model, the input data of inflow series QtI are
needed. A synthetic daily flow series (1959–2003) based on the area ratio method (WRA, 2003) is employed in this
study. This flow series has been used by the Water Resources Agency (Taiwan) for evaluation of the proposed
Laonung diversion weir. Equal weights, w1¼w2¼w3¼ 1/3, are assigned to the three objectives in Equation (20).
The limiting values used here are DO,max¼ 60.8%, SRmin¼ 2.9% and ADmax¼ 370 106m3;
DO,min¼ 27.9%, SRmax¼ 32.1% and ADmin¼ 0m3. It should be noted here that the value of DO,min is apart
from 0 because the histogram derived from the RA-based natural flow regime is slightly different from that derived
from the synthetic input flow series.
The resulting optimal outcomes areDO¼ 39.6%, SR¼ 14.1% and AD¼ 299.4 106m3, with the corresponding
optimal environmental flow prescriptions listed in Table VI. These environmental flows range from 6.5 to 37m3/s,
prescribed for April and March, respectively. The environmental flows in the wet period (May–October) are almost
identically 8.5m3/s, while those in the dry months (November–January) all exceed 10m3/s. Such a result is
consistent with those of previous work (Shiau and Wu, 2006, 2007a). As a comparison, the outcomes associated
with the planning scheme of constant environmental flow (¼4.69m3/s) are DO¼ 54.9%, SR¼ 8.3% and
AD¼ 328.4 106m3. The optimal scheme significantly improves the ecosystem needs objective by a 15.3%
reduction inDO, which is achieved at the cost of slightly increasing SR by 5.8% and decreasing AD by 29 106m3
(9% reduction).
The values ofDm for the 32 IHA associated with the optimal and planning schemes are summarized in Table VII.
It is shown that the values of Dm associated with the planning constant scheme are consistently higher than those
Table VI. The optimal environmental flow prescriptions at the proposed Laonung diversion weir (units in m3/s)
Month January February March April May June July August September October November December
QtEF 11.2 7.4 37.0 6.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.8 8.5 8.5 14.9 15.2
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 25: 1071–1089 (2009)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
NATURAL FLOW REGIME AT UNGAUGED SITE 1083
skepticism on the RA-based natural flow regime, such an outcome is in fact attributed to the discrepancy between
the RA-based natural flow regime and synthetic pre-diversion flow series at the ungauged site, as evidenced by the
non-zero value ofDO,min. Despite this inherent discrepancy existing between the different approaches to generating
flow data at ungauged sites, the optimal outcomes resulting from the RA-based natural flow regime, including the
optimal values of QtEF and Dm, appear to be plausible and consistent with those reported in the previous work, thus
validating the RA employed in this study.
Effect of weighting factors
In this section, we explore the effect of weighting factors on the outcomes associated with the optimal
environmental flow scheme. The contour plots of the optimal DO, SR, AD and L for various combinations of
weighting factors are illustrated in Figure 7, where only two factors are shown in each plot because the third one can
be obtained by the relation w1þw2þw3¼ 1. Figure 7 consistently reveals that w1 is the weighting factor that
dominates the optimal outcomes. For example, Figure 7(a) reveals that the optimal value of DO decreases
significantly as w1 is shifted from the dashed diagonal (w1¼ 0) towards the lower-left corner (w1¼ 1), indicating
that the hydrologic alteration is reduced as more weight is given to the ecosystem needs objective. Figure 7(b) and
(c) reveal that w1 not only dominates the optimal value of DO, but also affects the optimal outcomes of SR and AD;
the values of w2 and w3, however, have minor effects on these optimal outcomes. As such, two extreme outcomes
are associated with two extreme values of w1. The first corresponds to w1¼ 1, which leads to the outcomes of
DO,min¼ 27.9% (Figure 7(a)), SRmax¼ 32.1% (Figure 7(b)) and ADmin¼ 0m3 (Figure 7(c)). The second
corresponds to w1¼ 0, leading to the outcomes of DO,max¼ 60.8% (Figure 7(a)), SRmin¼ 2.9% (Figure 7(b))
and ADmax¼ 370 106m3 (Figure 7(c)). Figure 7(d) reveals that the minimum L also occurs at these two extreme
values of w1, implying that the global optimal solution is obtained as a full or null weighting is assigned to the
ecosystem needs objective. On the other hand, the maximum L is obtained with w1¼ 0.4, w2¼ 0.6 and w3¼ 0,
which leads to the outcomes of DO¼ 42.2%, SR¼ 12.9% and AD¼ 299.8 106m3, indicating that the least
optimal solution is obtained as the interbasin transfer objective is given a null weighting while the agricultural
demands objective is given more weight than the ecosystem needs objective. The dominance of w1 on the optimal
outcomes is attributed to the fact that the ecosystem needs objective is given the highest priority in the weir
operation model. Lower priorities for the human needs objectives and restrictions on water diversions, on the other
hand, result in the less dominance of w2 and w3 on the optical outcomes.
Figure 6. Time series plots of natural and post-diversion monthly flows of January at proposed Laonung diversion weir site
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 25: 1071–1089 (2009)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
NATURAL FLOW REGIME AT UNGAUGED SITE 1085
Laonung diversion weir is to maintain a value ofDO< 35%, then a value of w1> 0.7 is recommended (Figure 7(a)),
which will lead to the outcomes of SR ranging between 19.6 and 32.1% and AD< 230 106m3 (Figure 8(a)). If, on
the other hand, the annual interbasin transfer AD is expected to exceed 300 106m3 due to the drought events, then
a value of w1< 0.3 should be used (Figure 7(c)), which will however result in the ranges of DO between 39.7 and
60.8% and SR between 2.9 and 15.9% (Figure 8(a)).
CONCLUSIONS
In this work we employed the RA to derive the natural flow regime at an ungauged site. The RA-based natural flow
regime, expressed by the histograms of 32 IHA, was integrated with the HMA to seek the optimal environmental
Figure 8. (a) Envelope curves of optimal outcomes varying with w1; (b) envelope curves of optimal outcomes varying with w2; (c) variations of
optimal AD with w2 for some specific values of w3
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 25: 1071–1089 (2009)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
NATURAL FLOW REGIME AT UNGAUGED SITE 1087
Shiau JT, Wu FC. 2004a. Assessment of hydrologic alterations caused by Chi-Chi diversion weir in Chou-Shui Creek, Taiwan: opportunities for
restoring natural flow conditions. River Research and Applications 20: 401–412.
Shiau JT, Wu FC. 2004b. Feasible diversion and instream flow release using range of variability approach. Journal of Water Resources Planning
and Management 130: 395–404.
Shiau JT, Wu FC. 2006. Compromise programming methodology for determining instream flow under multiobjective water allocation criteria.
Journal of the American Water Resources Association 42: 1179–1191.
Shiau JT, Wu FC. 2007a. A dynamic corridor-searching algorithm to seek time-varying instream flow releases for optimal weir operation:
comparing three indices of overall hydrologic alteration. River Research and Applications 23: 35–53.
Shiau JT, Wu FC. 2007b. Pareto-optimal solutions for environmental flow schemes incorporating the intra-annual and interannual variability of
the natural flow regime. Water Resources Research 43: W06433. doi:10.1029/2006WR005523
Shiau JT, Wu FC. 2008. A histogram matching approach for assessment of flow regime alteration: application to environmental flow
optimization. River Research and Applications 24: published online. 914–928.
Sivapalan M. 2003. Prediction in ungauged basins: a grand challenge for theoretical hydrology. Hydrological Processes 17: 3163–3170.
Smithers JC, Schulze RE. 2001. A methodology for the estimation of short duration design storms in South Africa using a regional approach
based on L-moments. Journal of Hydrology 241: 42–52.
The Nature Conservancy. 2005. IHA Applications Database. http://www.nature.org/initiatives/freshwater/files/iha_apps.pdf
Trefry CM,Watkins DW Jr, Johnson D. 2005. Regional rainfall frequency analysis for the state of Michigan. Journal of Hydrologic Engineering
10: 437–449.
Water Resources Agency (WRA). 2003. Tsengwen Reservoir Transbasin Diversion Project Environmental Impact Assessment. GPN:
1009200683, Taichung, Taiwan (in Chinese).
Zhang J, Hall MJ. 2004. Regional flood frequency analysis for the Gan-Ming river basin in China. Journal of Hydrology 296: 98–117.
APPENDIX
1. Generalized logistic distribution (GLO)
FðxÞ ¼ 1
1þ 1 kðxjÞ
a
h i1
k
(A:1Þ
where x¼ non-dimensionalized data; j, a and k are parameters.
2. Generalized extreme-value distribution (GEV)
FðxÞ ¼ exp  1 k x jð Þ
a
 1
k
( )
(A:2Þ
where j, a and k are parameters.
3. Three-parameter lognormal distribution (LN3)
FðxÞ ¼ F ln x zð Þ  h
s
 
(A:3Þ
where z, h, and s are parameters; F¼ standard normal cdf.
4. Pearson type III distribution (PE3)
FðxÞ ¼ G
x hþ 2s
g
1
2
sg
  ; 4g2
 !
(A:4Þ
where h, s and g are parameters; G¼ incomplete gamma function.
5. Generalized Pareto distribution (GPA)
FðxÞ ¼ 1 1 k x jð Þ
a
 1
k
(A:5Þ
where j, a and k are parameters.
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 25: 1071–1089 (2009)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
NATURAL FLOW REGIME AT UNGAUGED SITE 1089
out that variables from IHA groups 1 and 2 are the best predictors of macroinvertebrate community response to
flow. Thoms and Parsons (2003) presented a multidimensional temporal–spatial approach to advancing the
application of the natural flow paradigm. Poff et al. (2006) suggested a hierarchical approach for comparing
hydrologic variability across different spatial scales (i.e. basins, regions and continents).
The IHA have become increasingly popular tools for river research and management. Abundant examples can be
found where researchers have employed the IHA to assess the hydrologic changes induced by anthropogenic and
natural processes, as demonstrated by the IHAApplications Database (The Nature Conservancy, 2005). Despite the
popularity of IHA, studies that incorporated the natural flow regime to optimizing water release strategies were
rarely reported, primarily due to lack of a widely accepted suite of methods for quantifying the ecological fitness of
environmental flows. Although previous attempts have been made to quantify ecological fitness using physical
habitat or population sizes (Sale et al., 1982; Cardwell et al., 1996; Jager and Rose, 2003), they were mainly
concerned with fisheries and not the maintenance of biodiversity and ecosystem integrity associated with the
natural flow regime. Only recently, has the incorporation of the regime-based environmental flows in water
resources and ecosystemmanagement become practicable with the aid of the Range of Variability Approach (RVA)
(Shiau and Wu, 2004a, 2004b, 2006, 2007a, 2007b).
The RVA employs the natural (or pre-impact) flow series to establish the IHA target ranges (Richter et al., 1997).
The management goal is to recommend environmental flow schemes that would attain the target ranges as
frequently as the natural flow series, and promotions of the ecological health are expected as such a goal is
approached. Richter et al. (1998) further suggested an IHA target range bracketed by the 25th- and 75th-percentile
values, an implication of which is that 50% of the pre-impact years would have the values of the hydrologic
Table I. Indicators of Hydrologic Alteration (IHA) used in the RVA and HMA
IHA group Hydrologic parameter [units]
Group 1: Magnitude of monthly flows Mean flow of each calendar month [m3/s]
Group 2: Magnitude and duration of
annual extreme flows, and base flow condition
Annual 1-day minimum flow [m3/s]
Annual 1-day maximum flow [m3/s]
Annual 3-day minimum flow [m3/s]
Annual 3-day maximum flow [m3/s]
Annual 7-day minimum flow [m3/s]
Annual 7-day maximum flow [m3/s]
Annual 30-day minimum flow [m3/s]
Annual 30-day maximum flow [m3/s]
Annual 90-day minimum flow [m3/s]
Annual 90-day maximum flow [m3/s]
Base flow condition (Annual 7-day minimum flow
divided by annual mean flow) [–]
Group 3: Timing of annual extreme flows Julian date of annual 1-day minimum flow
Julian date of annual 1-day maximum flow
Group 4: Frequency and duration of high and low pulses Number of high pulses in each year
Number of low pulses in each year
Mean duration of high pulse [days]
Mean duration of low pulse [days]
Group 5: Rate and frequency of flow changes Rise rate (Mean of all positive differences between
consecutive daily flows) [m3/s/day]
Fall rate (Mean of all negative differences between
consecutive daily flows) [m3/s/day]
Number of flow reversals
A total of 32 IHA are categorized by five groups of hydrologic features.
aHigh and low pulses are those periods in which the daily flows are above the 75th- and below the 25th-percentile pre-impact daily flows,
respectively.
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 24: 914–928 (2008)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
HISTOGRAM MATCHING APPROACH FOR FLOWASSESSMENT 915
Equation (1), the degree of hydrologic alteration would be zero for each of these three post-impact series (Table II),
which appears to indicate a close resemblance to the natural regime. However, series A (Figure 1b) is an
upward-shifted version of the natural series, whereas series C (Figure 1d) is a downward-shifted version. For these
two, the data ranges have been considerably altered. In series B (Figure 1c), the timing and frequencies of the data
falling above the upper-target, within the target range and below the lower-target are identical with those of the
natural series, but the full range of natural variability is completely missing given only three constant values of the
hydrologic parameter.
The deviations of these post-impact series from the natural flow regime become clear as we compare their
frequency histograms (Figure 2). For the natural series, more than 55% of the data are in the third and fourth classes
(18–36), which have been shifted to the fourth and fifth classes (27–45) for the post-impact series A; while for the
post-impact series C, the data have been redistributed such that nearly 80% are in the first three classes (0–27). The
post-impact series B only fall in the first (0–9), third (18–27) and fifth (36–45) classes, with the corresponding
relative frequencies being 26%, 50% and 24%, respectively.
In this paper we present a novel HistogramMatching Approach (HMA) for resolving the limited flow variability
resulting from the RVA. The HMA uses a dissimilarity metric to assess the flow regime alteration, which is based on
the quadratic-form distance between the frequency vectors of the pre- and post-impact histograms weighted by a
specified similarity matrix. Using a case study we employ the HMA to determine the optimal environmental flow
scheme for the Kaoping diversion weir in Taiwan. The performances of the HMA and RVA are evaluated. A
sensitivity analysis is also performed on different similarity functions.
Table II. Degree of hydrologic alteration DR and degrees of histogram dissimilarity DQ for three hypothetical post-impact flow
series shown in Figure 1
Post-impact flow series DQ (%) based on different types of similarity function
DR (%) Linear Exponential (a¼ 5) Pulse
Series A 0 25.4 19.9 17.9
Series B 0 46.0 36.7 30.9
Series C 0 23.4 18.7 17.4
The values of DQ are based on three types of similarity function.
Figure 2. Frequency histograms of natural flow series and three hypothetical post-impact flow series
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 24: 914–928 (2008)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
HISTOGRAM MATCHING APPROACH FOR FLOWASSESSMENT 917
A ¼ ½aij, where aij is similarity between classes i and j. The values of aij vary between 0 and 1 as a function of the
ground distance between classes i and j. A general expression of aij is given by
aij ¼ 1  dij
dmax
 a
(4)
in which dij¼ jViVjj is ground distance between classes i and j, where Vi and Vj are mean values of classes i and j;
dmax ¼ maxðdijÞ ¼ V1  Vncj j. Values of a are specified in a range between 1 and1, a linear similarity function is
obtained with a¼ 1, whereas a diagonal pulse similarity matrix that ignores the cross-class correspondence is
obtained with a¼1. Variations of aijwith dij/dmax for a variety of a are illustrated in Figure 4. As shown, the linear
and pulse similarities are the envelops of the similarity curve family.
Degree of histogram dissimilarity
To be consistent with the definition of DR,m given in Equation (1), the quadratic-form distance is scaled with its
maximum value to define a ‘degree of histogram dissimilarity’:
DQ;m ¼ dQ;m
maxðdQ;mÞ  100%; m ¼ 1; . . . ; 32 (5)
whereDQ,m is the degree of histogram dissimilarity for themth IHA; dQ,m is quadratic-form distance of themth IHA
and max(dQ,m) is the maximum value of each dQ,m, evaluated by
maxðdQ;mÞ ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
2 þ 2 1  1
nc;m  1
 ams
(6)
where nc,m and am are values of nc and a adopted for the mth IHA.
The degrees of histogram dissimilarity for those three post-impact series shown in Figures 1 and 2 are
summarized in Table II, where the results associated with the linear, exponential and pulse similarities are obtained
with a¼ 1, 5 and1, respectively. As it is shown, the values of DQ for the series B are consistently the greatest no
matter which type of similarity is used, indicating the most severely altered flow regime among the three. The
values of DQ for series A and C are very close, with the former being slightly greater than the latter. These results
coincidewith our intuitive notion of similarity, and eliminate the oddity associated with the corresponding values of
DR (¼0).
Figure 4. Variations of similarity with normalized ground distance for various a
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 24: 914–928 (2008)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
HISTOGRAM MATCHING APPROACH FOR FLOWASSESSMENT 919
outflow. The projected monthly diversions QtPD are summarized in Table III, and the values of Q
t
EF are the only
decision variable to be specified herein. Amonthly varying environmental flow scheme is adopted in this study, thus
a total of 12 QtEF values are to be prescribed. The operational rules of the Kaoping diversion weir are given by
QtO ¼ QtI; QtAD ¼ 0 if QtI  QtEF
QtO ¼ QtEF; QtAD ¼ QtI  QtEF if QtEF < QtI  QtEF þ QtPD
QtO ¼ QtI  QtPD; QtAD ¼ QtPD if QtI > QtEF þ QtPD
8<
: (8)
where the human demands will be supplied only if the environmental flow criteria are fully met. These operational
rules are currently implemented by the Water Resources Agency of Taiwan with a constant value of QtEF (¼9.5m3/
s). Here we modify the operational rules by allowing the values of QtEF to vary monthly. The daily flows at the Lilin
Bridge gauge station (1951–2004) are used in our simulation as the inflow series QtI. The post-diversion series, Q
t
O,
are then used to assess the degree of flow regime alteration. The flow series actually diverted for human demands,
QtAD, is used to evaluate the water supply deficit.
Index of water supply deficit
The shortage ratio, SR, is employed in this study as an index of water supply deficit, which is defined as follows
(Cancelliere et al., 1998):
SR ¼
PN
t¼ 1
minðQtAD  QtPD; 0Þ
 
PN
t¼ 1
QtPD
 100% (9)
where N is total number of days in the simulation period. The value of SR represents a human needs objective to be
minimized with the aggregated multiobjective optimization algorithm described below.
Aggregated multiobjective optimization
The operational goal of the Kaoping diversion weir is to supply human demands while retaining the natural flow
variability, which formulates a typical multiobjective optimization problem. The objective function can be
expressed by
MinfDO; SRg (10)
Figure 5. Flow system of the Kaoping diversion weir. Flows in the boxes are projected diversions (QtPD) and environmental flow prescriptions
(QtEF); Q
t
I and Q
t
O denote inflows and outflows, respectively; Q
t
AD denotes the amount of flow actually diverted for water supplies; superscripts t
denote time
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 24: 914–928 (2008)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
HISTOGRAM MATCHING APPROACH FOR FLOWASSESSMENT 921
Figure 6b further reveal that the post-optimal series based on the HMA-pulse closely follows the distribution of the
natural series, whereas 65% of the RVA-based post-optimal series are concentrated in the second class, which is
37% over the corresponding natural frequency and 24% over the post-optimal frequencies resulting from the
HMA-linear and -exponential.
As the second example, the natural and post-optimal series of annual mean low-pulse durations are shown in
Figure 7a. The post-optimal series obtained with the HMA-linear exhibits a reasonably good resemblance to the
natural series. The RVA-based post-optimal series of low-pulse durations, as it is shown, is not as disturbed as that
of monthly flows in December, with most of the RVA-based results being slightly greater than the corresponding
values obtained with the HMA-linear. As a consequence, the frequency of the RVA-based post-optimal series in the
fourth class (i.e. 120–160 days) is higher than the corresponding HMA-based post-optimal frequencies (Figure 7b),
while the RVA-based post-optimal frequency in the first class (i.e. 0–40 days) is consistently lower than the
corresponding HMA-based post-optimal frequencies. Nevertheless, both of the AMOGA-based low-pulse duration
series shown in Figure 7a follow more closely the natural series than those earlier results obtained with the
corridor-searching algorithm (Figure 8b, Shiau and Wu, 2007a).
The above two examples demonstrate that the HMA outperforms the RVA in preserving the natural flow
variability, which is achieved at the cost of greater water-supply deficits, as revealed by the slightly greater values of
SR associated with the HMA (i.e. ranging from 30.9 to 34.1%) than the RVA-based value of SR (¼29.2%). Such
minor degradation in human needs fitness, however, may be overlooked as we compare the statistics of DQ derived
from the RVA- and HMA-based post-optimal series of 32 IHA. We show in Table IV the numbers of IHAwith the
corresponding values ofDQ in five different levels, where the superscripts a, b, and c associated with the RVA-based
results denote the values of DQ calculated with the linear, exponential and pulse similarities, respectively.
Comparison ofDQ should be made between the values obtained with the same type of similarity. For DQ 5% (the
Table IV. Optimal sets of environmental flows QtEF obtained with the RVA and HMA, the associated outcomes of DO and SR,
and statistics of DQ and DR
HMA with different types of similarity
function
RVA Linear Exponential (a¼ 5) Pulse
DO (%) [DOR or DOQ] 9.3 11.1 9.3 9.2
SR (%) 29.2 34.1 32.1 30.9
QtEF (m
3/s) January 39.7 59.0 40.4 40.5
February 34.4 52.5 59.5 50.3
March 27.3 66.0 28.2 30.7
April 22.8 40.7 28.4 38.3
May 23.4 27.5 41.0 27.6
June 26.2 19.3 19.1 26.2
July 9.6 14.9 13.3 26.2
August 30.0 26.2 11.8 25.9
September 9.6 13.3 13.3 22.0
October 28.3 26.7 26.7 26.7
November 47.5 65.0 48.7 21.5
December 27.9 38.9 39.0 55.0
No. of IHA with DQ 5% 4a 7b 9c 10 12 14
5%<DQ 10% 10 11 11 10 10 11
10%<DQ 15% 7 7 7 6 7 4
15%<DQ 20% 5 2 1 4 1 1
DQ> 20% 6 4 4 2 2 2
No. of IHA with DR 33.3% 32 32 32 31
33.3%<DR 66.7% 0 0 0 1
DR> 66.7% 0 0 0 0
Superscripts a, b and c associated with the RVA-based results denote the values of DQ calculated with the linear, exponential and pulse
similarities, respectively.
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 24: 914–928 (2008)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
HISTOGRAM MATCHING APPROACH FOR FLOWASSESSMENT 923
however, does not necessarily mean that the environmental flows prescribed with the HMA-pulse are greater than
those obtained with other types of similarity function. For example, the value ofQtEF prescribed for November using
the pulse similarity is smallest, resulting in the only value ofDR ranging between 33.3% and 66.7%while others are
below 33.3% (Table IV). The frequency histograms of the low pulse durations (Figure 7b), on the other hand, reveal
that the post-optimal histogram associated with the HMA-linear is most similar to the natural pattern, whereas that
associated with the HMA-pulse is least similar to the natural one.
To further assess the outcomes resulting from different types of similarity, the 32 sets of post-optimal DQ values
obtained with the linear, exponential and pulse similarities are summarized in Table V. Although each set of DQ
values derived for a specific item of IHA cannot be used for ranking the outcomes associated with different types of
similarity, these data provide information from which a general conclusion can be drawn. Specifically, there is no
single type of similarity function that would make the post-optimal series of 32 IHA simultaneously best retain the
natural flow regime. Nevertheless, practical guidelines may be obtained from the finding of this study. For the
situations where water-supply reliability is of critical concern, the pulse similarity is recommended because it
would assure the smallest water-supply deficit. However, if minor degradation in the water-supply reliability may
Figure 6. (a) Natural and post-optimal series of monthly flows in December; (b) frequency histograms of natural and post-optimal series of
monthly flows in December
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 24: 914–928 (2008)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
HISTOGRAM MATCHING APPROACH FOR FLOWASSESSMENT 925
function can be found that would simultaneously best retain the natural patterns of 32 IHA. For the situations where
water-supply reliability is of critical concern, the pulse similarity can be used to assure the smallest water-supply
deficit. If, however, minor degradation in the water-supply reliability may be overlooked, the linear similarity is an
ideal candidate because it would generally result in the post-impact flows that most satisfactorily resemble to the
natural flow regime.
The proposed HMA may be coupled with the regional frequency analysis (RFA) methodology (Hosking and
Wallis, 1997) to evaluate the alteration of a flow regime at ungauged sites. Furthermore, the temporal variations
may be incorporated in the HMA to account for the inter-annual variability of the natural flow regime (Shiau and
Wu, 2007b). In this paper we demonstrated an HMA-based assessment framework applied to determine the optimal
environmental flow scheme. The simulation and optimization of weir operations presented here were based on the
historical flow records. For the proposed framework to be used as a planning tool for making environmental flow
recommendations into the future, a module for the real-time prediction of inter-annual hydrologic variations should
be included. These are potential topics that can be addressed in future studies.
NOTATIONS
A similarity matrix
aij similarity between histogram classes i and j
dij ground distance between histogram classes i and j
dmax maximum value of dij
dQ quadratic-form distance
DO overall degree of flow regime alteration
DOQ overall degree of hydrologic dissimilarity
DOR overall degree of hydrologic alteration
DQ,m degree of histogram dissimilarity for the mth IHA
DR,m degree of hydrologic alteration for the mth IHA
h and k frequency vectors of histograms H and K
m IHA index
n total number of data
nc number of histogram classes
N total number of days in the simulation period
Ne expected number of years with IHA values falling in the target ranges
No,m number of post-impact years with the mth IHA in the target range
NT total number of post-impact years
QtAD amount of flow actually diverted for water supplies at time t
QtEF environmental flow at time t
QtI natural (or pre-diversion) inflow at time t
QtO post-diversion outflow at time t
QtPD projected diversion at time t
r data range
riq inter-quartile range
SR water-supply shortage ratio
a parameter of similarity function.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This study was funded in part by the National Science Council, Taiwan ROC. Review comments from three
anonymous referees helped demonstrate wider relevance, improve the clarity and broaden the context of the paper.
Copyright # 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. River. Res. Applic. 24: 914–928 (2008)
DOI: 10.1002/rra
HISTOGRAM MATCHING APPROACH FOR FLOWASSESSMENT 927
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part IV 
 
 
 
 
 
For Peer Review
 
 
Meso-scale Terrestrial Laser Scanning of Fluvial Gravel Surfaces 
 
Chi-Kuei Wang*, Member, IEEE, Fu-Chun Wu, Guo-Hao Huang, and Ching-Yi Lee 
* Correspondence to: C.-K. Wang, Department of Geomatics, National Cheng Kung 
University, Taiwan. E-mail: chikuei@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
 
Manuscript received August 27, 2010. This work was supported by the National Science 
Council of Taiwan and by the Landmark Project of National Cheng Kung University, 
Taiwan. 
C.-K. Wang and G.-H. Huang are with the Department of Geomatics, National Cheng 
Kung University, Taiwan (e-mail: chikuei@mail.ncku.edu.tw; 
p6894101@mail.ncku.edu.tw).  
F.-C. Wu is with the Department of Bioenvironmental Systems Engineering, National 
Taiwan University, Taiwan (e-mail: fcwu@ntu.edu.tw). 
C.-Y Lee was with National Cheng Kung University. She is now with Taichung County 
Government Local Land Administration Section, Taiwan (e-mail: 
jing0304@yahoo.com.tw) 
 
Page 22 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Measurements of gravel-bed surface are crucial for the studies of fluvial processes 
concerning the variations of surface elevation and substrate texture. The hydraulic 
resistance exerted on the flow stems from the grain- and form-scale roughness of the gravel 
surface. Airborne laser scanner (ALS) can gather the elevation  of gravel surface for a large 
area [1]. The footprint of ALS is ~15 cm on the ground, thus ALS is more suitable for the 
measurement of form-scale  roughness rather than the grain-scale roughness. To verify the 
ALS data, the ground truth should cover a sufficiently large spatial extent.  The gravel 
surface elevations have also been measured in situ using handheld medical laser scanners 
[2, 3] and close-range photogrammetry [4-6]. The utility of handheld medical laser 
scanners is, however, limited by the need of supporting arms [2, 3]; the close-range 
photogrammetry, on the other hand, suffers from the complexities associated with the setup 
of ground control points, gantry, and post-processing procedures [4-6]. Moreover, both 
these methods have only acquired the gravel surface areas smaller than 1.3 m × 1.3 m [4-6]; 
the form-scale features of the gravel-bed topography may have been overlooked [7, 8]. 
Therefore, there is a pressing need for an instrument that can be used to measure the gravel 
surface at a larger spatial extent with a sufficiently high resolution. 
Terrestrial Laser Scanning (TLS), which is based on the laser ranging technique [9], 
has recently been employed for measurements of gravel surfaces at various scales [10, 11]. 
These studies revealed that TLS is a promising tool for obtaining detailed high-quality 2-D 
elevations of gravel surfaces. Hodge et al. [11] proposed a sophisticated filter scheme 
along with field operation recommendations (a minimum of three repeated scans at each 
location and multiple scans from three different aspects) to eliminate the mixing pixel 
Page 24 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
II. MATERIAL AND METHODS 
A. Study sites 
The study sites are located at a gravel bar near the confluence of the Nan-Shih River 
and Pei-Shih River, northern Taiwan (latitude and longitude of 24°54’11” and 121°33’22”, 
respectively). The laser scans of the gravel bar surface were implemented at three 6 m × 6 
m sampling sites, referred to as sites 96I, 97I, and 97II, respectively. The scans of 96I were 
carried out on October 26, 2007, whereas the scans of 97I and 97II were performed on 
January 30, 2008. The grain size distributions were obtained using the photo-sieving 
technique [13, 14] with images samples taken from a 50 cm × 50 cm frame. The results 
indicate that the surface grains of 97I and 97II are coarser than 96I, with D90 values of 8.0, 
10.2, and 9.9 cm for 96I, 97I, and 97II, respectively. Fig. 1 shows the field conditions for 
97I. 
B. Terrestrial Laser Scanning 
TLS (also known as ground-based LIDAR) collects the 3-D points of a surface by 
measuring the range between the surface and the scanner with a transmitted laser beam that 
is directed with a high angular accuracy [12, 15]. The collected 3-D point data, called the 
LIDAR point cloud, are direct representations of the surface, eliminating the need for 
stereo-matching used in close-range photogrammetry when generating the DSM of the 
ground surface [4, 6]. For each scan, the coordinate origin is within the TLS system. Thus, 
the point cloud data obtained from the individual scans are regarded as having an 
independent local coordinate system. The integration of multiple scans is facilitated by the 
use of circular marks of high reflection contrast [11, 16] and is processed with the 
Page 26 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
individual scans (1 to 4) was at least ~1 point/cm2, from which a DSM with 1 cm resolution 
can be obtained if the entire gravel surface is visible with a single scan. The combination of 
the four scans (1 to 4) would result in a point cloud density of ~4 point/cm2. The inner 
scans were, however, set to much slower speeds to obtain point cloud densities of ~10 
point/cm2 for individual scans (5 and 6). 
To facilitate the registration of these six scans, four circular scanner targets with an 
alternating black and white pattern were placed approximately equidistant from each other 
around the perimeter that extends 2 m away from the 6 m × 6 m sampling area (Fig. 2). 
These targets were kept fixed during the operation of the six scans. After each scan, before 
relocating TLS to the next post, the four scanner targets were scanned by TLS with a high 
resolution, and then identified as registration targets in Cyclone. The mean absolute errors 
of the registration results for all three sites are better than 3 mm. 
D. DSM generation 
Integrating the results of multiple scans leads to a dense point cloud that represents 
the gravel surface. Fig. 3a shows the point cloud obtained within a region of 25 cm (long) × 
1 cm (width). Unlike the elevation profile that would be extracted from a DSM, which is a 
series of elevations at fixed intervals along a line over the gravel surface, TLS randomly 
records the 3-D information of the gravel surface as a result of its scan patterns [19]. Fig. 
3b shows a schematic 3-D plot demonstrating the difference between the elevation profile 
extracted from a DSM and the point cloud obtained from TLS. The grid lines overlaid on 
the gravel surface correspond to 1 cm × 1 cm cells. The open circles denote the surface 
profile extracted from a DSM, whereas the black and white circles denote point clouds that 
are respectively above and below, respectively, the ‘true’ gravel surface due to the 
Page 28 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
represent hidden surfaces are filtered out. The standard deviation (std) of the elevations of 
all points within a cell is used as the criterion for filtering. If the std is greater than a 
specified threshold β, implying that hidden-surface data may be present, the number of data 
points within the cell is further checked. If there are more than 10 points within the cell, 
five of the greatest and smallest elevations are used to calculate a mean value, m1. Points 
with elevations greater than m1 are taken to be potentially on the top surface. The highest 
and lowest points are used to preserve the point data corresponding to the top surface while 
avoiding the generation of jerky profiles. The original point cloud is replaced by the 
potential top-surface points and the procedure is repeated until the updated std is less than 
the specified threshold. When fewer than 10 points are within the cell, a mean elevation m2 
of the points is calculated, and the top surface elevation m3 is estimated and assigned to the 
cell by averaging the point data that are within m2 and m2+std. If the std is less than β, the 
estimation of the top surface elevation m3 is straightforward; it includes the calculation of 
the mean elevation, m4, of the point data and the averaging of the point data that are within 
m4 ± std. Rejecting point data outside m4 ± std makes proposed filter scheme robust to 
noisy point data. At the end of this stage, each of the 360,000 cells in the 6 m × 6 m 
sampling area is assigned a binned value of surface elevation. Fig. 5a shows the 
TLS-derived DSMs for std thresholds of 0.5 cm , 1 cm, and 1.5 cm for three example 
profiles extracted from 96I, 97I, and 97II. When the std threshold is 0.5 cm, the 
TLS-derived DSM becomes jerky and has the tendency to track the noisy point data that 
are higher than the gravel surface (dashed line in Fig. 5a for 97I at x = 0.15 m). On the other 
hand, when the std threshold is 1.5 cm, the TLS-derived DSM fails to depict the edge of the 
gravel surface at x = 0.05 m for 97I and at x = 0.05 m for 97II (dotted lines in Fig. 5a). For 
Page 30 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
data collection, the quality of the elevation profile is affected by weather and human 
fatigue. The accuracy of the elevation profile is not easily quantified and usually not 
reported [7, 21], but it is believed to be less accurate than that of a TLS-derived DSM. 
Although the precision of the elevation data using the manual profiler is not the same as 
that of a TLS-derived DSM, it provides an independent in situ dataset for assessing the 
fidelity of TLS-derived DSM. 
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
A.  TLS-derived DSM 
For each of the three 6 m × 6 m sampling sites, more than 2.75 million data points 
were collected (Table I) with a point cloud density  consistently over 7.64 points/cm2. Due 
to the obstruction of the line-of-sight by large pieces of gravel, the ground was not fully 
covered by the point data from the nadir perspective, despite using the proposed multiple 
scan strategy. The TLS-derived DSMs of the three sites are displayed as shaded relief maps 
in Fig. 6. Fewer data voids are observed in the central 2 m × 2 m regions where the 
supplemental scan data with a higher angle of incidence (from scans 5 and 6) was used. The 
point density of the supplemental scans ranging from 9.63 to 26.7 points/cm2, was 
consistently greater than those of the first four scans. The lowest density of 96I (2 m × 2 m) 
was due to the TLS policy that was concentrated on the acquisition of the large-area (6 m × 
6 m) data. The DSM coverage, defined as the ratio of the number of cells with a valid DSM, 
which refers to that produced by the proposed filter scheme, to the total number of cells, 
ranged from 76.4 to 93.9% for the 6 m × 6 m areas, but was consistently greater than 97.6% 
for the 2 m × 2 m areas. 
Page 32 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
The first is exemplified by the two points in profile C at d = ~ 0.3 m (indicated by the gray 
arrows in Fig. 7a and 8c), where the elevations obtained by the manual profiler are 
apparently (~ 4 cm) lower than those extracted from the TLS-derived DSM. This 
discrepancy is attributed to small areas that were reachable by the manual profiler but 
inaccessible to the laser scanner, even with the implementation of multiple scans. In 
addition, data voids appear at the troughs of the surface topography, as shown in profile A 
at d = ~ 1.1 m and ~ 2.4 m, profile B at d = ~ 2.0 m, and profile C at d = ~ 2.1 m, where the 
gravel surfaces were not accessible to the laser scanner due to the occlusion caused by 
neighboring gravel. Although the elevation variation of profile A is not significant at d = 
~1.1 m and the occlusion is not very obvious (Fig. 7a), it should be noted that the TLS point 
cloud data used to derive the DSM of that cell were collected from six scans. Thus, it is 
speculated that the occlusion of profile A at d = ~1.1 m is attributed to the neighboring 
gravel, not only along the y axis, but also those at greater and smaller values of x (Fig. 6a). 
The second is the difference observed in profile C at d = ~ 0.1 m (indicated by the 
black arrows in Fig. 7b and 8c), where the elevation extracted from the TLS-derived DSM 
is much greater than that obtained by the manual profiler. Such difference was observed at 
the side face of the gravel. The proposed filter scheme tracked the mean elevation of the 
top surface at the center of a cell, where the manual profiler measured the elevation with a 
pin point. The edge boundary determined by the two methods can differ by up to 1 cm. This 
was, however, a rare situation and only a few cases were observed in the profiles presented 
here. 
At last, discrepancies may be caused by the misalignment of the leveling rod. The 
two levels used to ensure the vertical configuration of the leveling rod were made of 
Page 34 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
used it after the α threshold in the first stage (Fig. 4). The corresponding elevation profiles 
A, B, and C from the cone-filter-derived DSMs are shown in Fig. 7a as magenta lines. The 
coefficients of determination R2 are 0.964, 0.955, and 0.945, for profiles A, B, and C, 
respectively, as they are centered around the one-to-one line in the scatter plots shown in 
Fig. 8. The R2 values for the mean-based filter are better than those for the cone filter, 
except for profile C. The scatter plot in Fig. 8 shows very similar distributions of DSM 
results for the two filters. One noticeable difference is indicated by the hollow arrow in Fig. 
7a at d = 1.4 m, where the manual profiler and mean-based TLS-derived DSM both depicts 
a trough of the gravel surface but the cone-filter based TLS-derived DSM failed to do so. 
Thus, the proposed filter outperforms the cone filter and requires fewer scans. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
A two-stage mean-based filter scheme for processing TLS point clouds was 
proposed for generating DSM of fluvial gravel surface. Most of the data voids were located 
around larger pieces of gravel, where the accessibility of TLS is obstructed by the 
protruding gravels. Fewer data voids were observed in the central regions where the 
supplemental scan data was used.Overall, the TLS-derived surface profiles are in 
satisfactory agreement with the corresponding profiles obtained using a manual profiler. 
However, data voids, which appear in troughs of the surface topography or in the 
neighborhood of large pieces of gravel, that are reachable to the manual profiler but 
inaccessible to the TLS, can lead to discrepancies. In addition, edge boundary differences 
were observed at the side face of gravel, where the filter scheme tracks the mean elevation 
of the top surface at the center of a cell but the manual profiler measures the elevation with 
a pin point. The proposed method is an effective tool for obtaining quality DSM that may 
Page 36 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Y.-L. Lin and C.-K. Wang, "Assessment of airborne lidar data for instream flow type 
classification," in IEEE Int. Geosci. Remote Sens. Sympo. 2010, Honolulu, Hawaii, 
USA, 2010, pp. 930 - 933. 
[2] V. Nikora and J. Walsh, "Water-worked gravel surfaces: High-order structure 
functions at the particle scale," Water Resour. Res., vol. 40, Dec. 2004. 
[3] G. Smart, J. Aberle, M. Duncan, and J. Walsh, "Measurement and analysis of alluvial 
bed roughness," J. Hydraul. Res., vol. 42, pp. 227-237, Mar. 2004. 
[4] J. B. Butler, S. N. Lane, and J. H. Chandler, "Assessment of DEM quality for 
characterizing surface roughness using close range digital photogrammetry," 
Photogramm. Rec., vol. 16, pp. 271-291, Oct. 1998. 
[5] J. B. Butler, S. N. Lane, and J. H. Chandler, "Characterization of the structure of 
river-bed gravels using two-dimensional fractal analysis," Math. Geol., vol. 33, pp. 
301-330, Apr. 2001 
[6] P. E. Carbonneau, S. N. Lane, and N. E. Bergeron, "Cost-effective non-metric 
close-range digital photogrammetry and its application to a study of coarse gravel 
river beds," Int. J. Remote Sens., vol. 24, pp. 2837-2854, Jul. 2003. 
[7] C. De Jong, "Measuring changes in micro and macro roughness on mobile gravel 
beds," in Erosion and Sediment Transport Monitoring Programmes in River Basins, 
Oslo, Norway, 1992, pp. 31-40. 
[8] V. I. Nikora, D. G. Goring, and B. J. F. Biggs, "On gravel-bed roughness 
characterization," Water Resour. Res., vol. 34, pp. 517-527, Oct. 1998. 
Page 38 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
[18] L. Geosystems (2009, August 16). "Leica HDS4500 (25m range model) Product 
Specifications". Available: 
http://www.leica.loyola.com/products/hds/pdf/hds4500_specs_25m.pdf. 
[19] Y. W. Choi, Y. W. Jang, H. J. Lee, and G. S. Cho, "Three-Dimensional LiDAR Data 
Classifying to Extract Road Point in Urban Area," IEEE Geosci. Remote Sens. Lett., 
vol. 5, pp. 725-729, Oct. 2008. 
[20] W. L. Lu, K. P. Murphy, J. J. Little, A. Sheffer, and H. B. Fu, "A Hybrid Conditional 
Random Field for Estimating the Underlying Ground Surface From Airborne LiDAR 
Data," IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens., vol. 47, pp. 2913-2922, Aug. 2009. 
 
Page 40 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
(b)(a)
 
Fig. 1. (a) Field photograph of 97I (bounded by the yellow lines). Four circular scanner 
targets were placed around the 6 m × 6 m area. (b) Close-up photograph of the central 2 m 
× 2 m area of 97I. Arrows pointing left and up are profile B and C, respectively. The two 
profiles are both 2.2 m long. 
Page 42 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
0.25      0.2       0.15      0.1      0.05       0 
Distance, x (m)     
 
Fig. 3.  (a) Comparison of DSMs binned by maximum elevation [2] and mean-based filter 
scheme. (b) Schematic 3-D plot demonstrating the difference between the elevation profile 
extracted from a DSM and a point cloud obtained from TLS. The grid lines overlaid on the 
gravel correspond to 1 cm × 1 cm cells. The open circles denote the elevation obtained 
from a DSM. The black and white circles denote TLS point clouds scattered above and 
below the gravel surface, respectively.  
Page 44 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
(a) (b)
96I
97II
97I
 
Fig. 5. (a) Flying errors identified with α = 2 cm and TLS-derived DSMs with varies std 
thresholds β for three example profiles extracted from 96I, 97I, and 97II. (b) The dots are 
outliers identified with γ = 3 cm. 
Page 46 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
For Peer Review
 
 
Distance to origin, d (m)
El
ev
at
io
n 
(m
)
(b)(a)
A
B
CE
le
va
tio
n 
(m
)
El
ev
at
io
n 
(m
)
 
Fig. 7.  (a) Comparison of surface elevation profiles obtained by a manual profiler and 
extracted from TLS-derived DSM. The cone filter is adopted from [11]. (b) Magnified 
view of (a). The gray arrow shows the difference of elevation due to limited accessibility 
by TLS. The black arrow shows the difference of elevation at the side face of gravel. The 
hollow arrow shows the difference between cone-filter-derived DSM and 
mean-based-derived DSM and manual profile. 
 
 
Page 48 of 49Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part V 
 
 
 
 
 
生
態
治
水
新
思
維
Vol. 35, No. 4       August 20082土木水利　第三十五卷　第四期 
航空攝影測量可產生河川流域地表數值高程
模型 (DEM)；空載光達可迅速獲得大範圍地面點
位三維座標，地面光達可針對小範圍產生高解析度
DEM，做為地表碎形幾何分析依據；光篩測量可分
析棲地河床粒徑分布。本文以翡翠水庫下游南、北
勢溪匯流口河段之礫石砂洲為例，說明如何應用這
三種遙測方法進行河川生態環境調查與監測。
研究區域概述
翡翠水庫提供大台北都會區主要民生用水，水
庫下游新店溪河川生態環境自 1987年水庫興建完成
後即嚴重改變。翡翠水庫操作管理方式過去皆以用
水供需及防洪為主要考量，水庫管理目前依據「翡
翠水庫運用要點」 （經濟部，2004），蓄水利用「以
調節供應家用及公共給水、水力用水等目標使用」，
並未提供河溪生態健康需求，而「水庫有效蓄水量
之利用運轉，應與南勢溪天然流量合併運用，訂定
水庫運用規線，並設上限、中限、下限及嚴重下限
四條運轉之水位限制」，另「水庫水位在上限與中限
之間時，除滿足計畫需水量外，電廠得配合電力系
統於尖峰時滿載發電」，且「水庫水位在中限與下限
之間時，應滿足計畫需水量」。歷年來翡翠水庫水位
多介於運用規線上限與中限之間 （翡翠水庫網站：
www.feitsui.gov.tw），顯示翡翠水庫有足夠多餘水
量進行操作管理，提供水質保護、河溪環境及生物
群聚需求。水庫管理若能再多考慮河溪生態健康需
求，將可復育下游新店溪河川生態環境多樣性，亦
可提高生態環境教育實質效益，並可大幅增加生態
旅遊等附加經濟價值。
本研究區域涵蓋翡翠水庫下游北勢溪河段、
南北勢溪匯流口至新店溪青潭堰下游河段 （圖 1），
其間包括翡翠水庫、屈尺堰、直潭壩、青潭堰以及
南勢溪上游羅好壩、阿玉壩、桂山壩等多座水工構
造物，其攔河、蓄水及引水對本研究區域之水文流
制、輸砂及河川形貌造成各種不同之衝擊與影響。
在進行河川生態工程設計、規劃與評估之前，須調
查分析各項河川生態環境資料。
航空攝影測量
近年來由於數位影像匹配 (Digital stereomatch-
ing) 技術之發展，航空攝影測量 (Photogrammetry) 
已被廣泛應用於河川生態棲地調查與監測 (Lane and 
Carbonneau, 2007)。數位航空攝影測量之基本原理乃
是根據數位影像局部性質 （例如亮度相似之面積或可
辨識之特性等），針對兩張涵蓋重疊區域之影像進行
相對應點之匹配作業，進而產生地表數值高程。數
位影像之來源可使用數位感測器獲取或掃瞄傳統航
照底片獲得。
本文對照民國 67年翡翠水庫興建前之航測照片
與民國 95年之衛星遙測影像（圖 2），發現研究區域
中河床形貌變化最劇烈明顯之處在於南、北勢溪匯
流口之礫石砂洲，不但面積、高度增大，更有逐漸
往北勢溪上游方向堆積之趨勢，除影響該河川棲地
特性之外，更可能造成阻水效應，降低翡翠水庫下
游北勢溪河段之輸水效率，有引發洪泛危險之虞。
為深入探討分析南、北勢溪匯流口礫石砂洲 （圖
3） 之形貌演變，瞭解其變化究竟受翡翠水庫完工後
水文流制改變之影響或受南勢溪上游砂礫供應量改
變之影響，以提出河川管理具體方案，本文使用農
林航測所民國 81、84、93、96年之航照底片數位影
圖 1 新店溪流域研究區域
生
態
治
水
新
思
維
Vol. 35, No. 4       August 20084土木水利　第三十五卷　第四期 
(1) 歷年高程累積機率曲線比較
由於航照影像所呈現之砂洲面積會受到拍照時
水位之影響，因此不能直接以航照影像所呈現砂洲
面積判斷其增減，而且單以砂洲面積亦無法瞭解其
高程方面之改變，因此本文利用歷年砂洲高程累積
機率曲線 （圖 5） 同時呈現砂洲之面積與高程變化兩
種訊息，進行量化比較。圖 5所呈現為高程 50 m以
上之砂洲面積累積機率曲線，由圖中可看出砂洲高
程逐年增加之趨勢，民國 81年時砂洲最高高程不超
過 52 m，至民國 96年時砂洲最高高程已在 55 m以
上，而砂洲高程 50 m以上所佔面積由 81年 42,885 
m2增至 93年 56,710 m2，96年之砂洲面積雖有微幅
減少，但高度卻大幅增長。
(2) 砂洲山脊線高程比較
為進一步比較歷年砂洲高程位置之演變，本
文利用歷年砂洲 DEM資料找出其山脊線，並將沿
山脊線之砂洲高程繪製於圖 6進行比較。由圖中可
看出 81年至 84年間砂洲之淤積主要發生在砂洲前
部 (Front)，而其體部 (Body) 亦有均勻淤積與微幅增
高，84年之後砂洲前部則無太大變化，主要淤積與
增高都發生在體部，而其形貌亦由平台形砂洲演變
為丘形砂洲，在沿山脊線之距離為 500 m處有明顯
之峰頂產生。本文最後一節將介紹光篩分析礫石砂
洲粒徑分布，後續可探討各區域砂洲淤積機制受水
文流制與上游砂礫供應量改變之影響。
(3) 歷年砂洲形心與質心位置演變
本文為瞭解歷年砂洲位置之演變趨勢，利用歷
年砂洲 DEM資料計算其形心與質心位置，探討砂
洲所佔面積位置與整體質量之移動。圖 7所示為歷
年砂洲之 50 m高程範圍線重疊圖以及歷年砂洲之形
心與質心位置，由圖中可看出砂洲形心有逐年右移
之趨勢，顯示砂洲逐年往北勢溪方向淤積，將對翡
翠水庫下游河段輸水效率造成影響；而砂洲質心則
逐年往北移動，顯示砂洲淤積雖造成高程方向之增
長，但其整體質量仍受水流作用而逐年往下游移動。
圖 5   南、北勢溪匯流口砂洲歷年高程累積機率曲線比較
圖 7 南、北勢溪匯流口砂洲歷年形心與質心位置演變
圖 6   南、北勢溪匯流口砂洲歷年山脊線高程比較
生
態
治
水
新
思
維
Vol. 35, No. 4       August 20086土木水利　第三十五卷　第四期 
紅色方框標示三個地面光達作業區域；圖 10為南勢
溪砂洲原始光達點雲資料，由 AB斷面可明顯看見
南勢溪上之橋樑結構、砂洲分布、砂洲兩旁之水面
高度，北勢溪之河川斷面則明顯較為狹窄。
傳統的歐幾里德幾何學，不易對複雜的自然界
地表進行測量與計算，Mandelbrot (1977) 首次提出了
碎形 (Fractal) 概念來描述自然界的現象及形狀，碎
形維度可用於描述礫石砂洲表面的幾何特性，其計
算式如下 (Robert, 1991)：
        (1)
其中 z(x) 與 z(x + h) 為空間中相距 h任兩個
高程值，N(h) 為相距 h之資料配對 (Data pairs) 數
目。根據 h值及所對應 r(h) 值，可以繪製變異圖 
(Variogram) 與變異全域圖 (Variogram map)。礫石砂
洲表面之變異圖 （圖 11） 通常會有兩個不同斜率，
分別代表顆粒與床形兩種不同尺度的碎形維度。二
圖 11 礫石河床雙對數軸半變異圖
圖 12 南勢溪砂洲DEM與碎形維度分析 (箭頭表示現場觀測
之水流方向 )圖 10 南勢溪砂洲之光達點雲資料展示
維平面資料之碎形維度 Ds是以直線擬合雙對數半變
異圖 （圖 11） 之斜率 b，依下式計算 (Robert, 1988; 
Bergeron, 1996; Butler et al., 2001; Furbish, 1987)：
                                              (2)
圖 12所示為三個地面光達作業之成果，96I位
於砂洲中央之橋樑下方，高程起伏不大，DEM資料
完整，97I與 97II則分別位於砂洲前緣，DEM資料
生
態
治
水
新
思
維
Vol. 35, No. 4       August 20088土木水利　第三十五卷　第四期 
a, b, c, d四個區域之河床質，照片中顯示砂洲顆粒
由 a區之均勻細礫石轉變為 b區之粗細混合礫石，
c區介於萬年橋與翡翠大橋之間，茂密植生造成細砂
淤積在底層粗礫石上面，砂洲下游端之 d區則為卵
礫石粗顆粒堆積而成。本文利用數位影像光篩分析 
(Digital photo-sieving) 河床質粒徑分布，所使用之光
篩分析軟體 Digital Gravelometer 1.0版 （網址 www.
sedimetrics.com） 為英國羅浮堡大學 (Loughborough 
University) 地理系之 Graham 等人 (2005a,b) 所研
發，其特色為：(1) 數位相機拍攝方式可進行大面積
多點採樣，資料收集方便迅速。(2) 數位影像處理與
辨識模組化，可利用簡單參數設定增進影像辨識之
精確性，快速進行影像處理與分析。(3) 可直接輸出
粒徑分布各種統計結果與圖表。河床粒徑分布光篩
分析步驟簡述如下：
步驟一：河床影像拍攝
河床質影像拍攝如圖 14所示，拍攝時數位相機
與拍攝面盡量保持垂直，減少影像四角之畸變，避
免使用閃光燈或因光源造成之陰影。光篩分析可辨
識之最小粒徑與數位相機畫素值有密切關連 (Graham 
et al., 2005b)，以 500萬畫素之數位相機為例，若涵
蓋面積為 0.5 m   0.5 m，則光篩分析可辨識之最小粒
徑為 5 mm。
圖 14  河床顆粒影像現地拍攝 圖 15 影像定位與幾何校正
步驟二：影像預處理
利用影像處理軟體對河床質影像進行自動對比
與大顆粒圈選等預處理步驟，改善拍攝時光線不良
或水分潮濕造成的表面不均勻現象，提高影像辨識
度。
步驟三：顆粒辨識
將預處理過之河床質影像載入光篩分析軟體進
行四角定位 （圖 15），並輸入分析範圍邊長進行後
續幾何校正及尺度轉換。粒徑影像分析流程如圖 16
所示，其步驟包括：(A) 濾除雜訊、(B) 增強邊緣、
(C) 影像二元化、(D) 完整顆粒辨識。各步驟可調整
之參數為：(A) 中值濾波矩陣大小 (m)，預設值 m 
=3 pixels。(B) 底帽轉換結構元素大小 (s)，預設值 s 
生
態
治
水
新
思
維
Vol. 35, No. 4       August 200810土木水利　第三十五卷　第四期 
圖 19  原始與預處理影像及畫素灰階值分布直方圖：(a)乾燥、(b)潮濕顆粒
圖 18  原始、自動對比、與顆粒辨識二元化影像：(a)均勻細顆粒、(b)均勻粗顆粒
 −16− 
 
 
 
河床質粒徑分布之數位影像光篩分析 
Analysis of Bed Material Grain Size Distribution 
Using Digital Photosieving 
 
 
國立台灣大學 
生物環境系統工程學系 
研究助理 
陳 嘉 欣 
Chia-Hsin Chen 
國立台灣大學 
生物環境系統工程學研究所 
碩士生 
邵 允 銓 
Yun-Chuan Shao 
國立成功大學 
測量及空間資訊學系 
助理教授 
王 驥 魁 
Chi-Kuei Wang 
國立台灣大學 
生物環境系統工程學系 
特聘教授 
吳 富 春* 
Fu-Chun Wu 
 
 
 
﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏﹏ 
摘  要 
河床質係由不同大小及形狀之泥砂與礫石顆粒所組成，對河床糙度、形貌與河
川棲地型態有極大之影響。傳統之河床質粒徑分布調查方式費時耗力，近年來數位
科技長足進步，使用數位相機拍照採樣並結合光篩軟體進行影像處理與粒徑分析，
不但可增進調查工作之效率與便利性，更可大幅減少耗費之人力與成本。 
本研究對目前唯一一套針對河床質粒徑分析之光篩軟體做一完整介紹與參數檢
定，並利用八種不同粒徑組合與乾濕狀況進行結果驗證。研究結果顯示使用光篩軟
體進行粒徑分析具有高度可行性，本研究對後續使用光篩軟體分析河床質粒徑分布
亦提供具體之建議。 
關鍵詞：河床質，粒徑分布，數位影像，光篩分析。 
ABSTRACT 
Bed material is composed of sands and gravels with different sizes and shapes, and 
affects the bed roughness, topography, and habitat morphology. Traditional methods for 
analyzing the bed material grain size distribution are labor intensive and time consuming. 
Recent advancement in digital technology makes it possible to sample the bed material 
with digital cameras and quantify the grain size distribution with image processing and 
analysis software; thus significantly improves the sampling efficiency and lowers the 
costs. In this work we first introduce the only available photo-sieving software that is 
specifically designed for bed material grain size analysis, and perform parameters 
calibration. Eight combinations of uniform and mixed-size grains with dry and wet 
農業工程學報 第 54 卷第 4 期 Journal of Taiwan Agricultural Engineering 
中華民國 97 年 12 月出版 Vol. 54, No. 4, December 2008 
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
︴
*通訊作者，國立台灣大學生物環境系統工程系特聘教授，10617台北市大安區羅斯福路 4段 1號，fcwu@ntu.edu.tw 
 −18− 
 
圖 2  河床質影像現地拍攝 
 
50
40
30
20
10
5
4
3
2
0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 1 2 3 4 5
Ground area covered (m2)
Mi
nim
um
 gr
ain
 si
ze
 m
ea
su
ra
ble
 (m
m) 1152
864 
(1.0M
P)
1600
1200
 (1.9
MP)
2048
153
6 (3.
1MP
)
2560
192
0 (4.
9MP
)
3072
204
8 (6.
3MP
)
4046
270
4 (11
.0MP
)
4536
3024
 (13.
7MP
)
 
圖 3 光篩分析可辨識粒徑與數位相機像元值之關
係 (Graham et al., 2005b) 
 
陰影。光篩分析可辨識之最小粒徑與數位相機像
元值有密切關連，其關係如圖 3所示。 
 
2. 步驟二：影像處理 
利用一般影像處理軟體(如 PhotoImapct 或
PhotoShop)對河床質影像做自動對比及大顆粒圈
選之前處理，可改善拍攝時光線不良或水分潮濕
造成的表面不均勻現象，提高影像辨識度。 
 
3. 步驟三：顆粒辨識 
開啟光篩分析軟體，載入前處理過之河床質
影像進行四角定位(如圖 4 所示)，並輸入分析範
圍邊長大小，以為後續幾何校正及轉換尺度之依
據。 
 
圖 4  影像定位與幾何校正 
 
(Median Filter) 
(Bottom-hat transform)
(Double Threshod)T1 T2
Feature AND
(Watershed)
 
圖 5  光篩分析影像處理流程 
 
光篩分析軟體內設影像處理流程如圖 5 所
示，各影像處理之方法原理可參考軟體研發者發
表文獻(Graham et al., 2005a)，以下針對影像分析
步驟進行說明： 
A. 濾除雜訊 
影像中存在過多雜訊將降低影像辨識能
力，光篩分析軟體為除去圖檔中多餘雜點，利用
影像處理之中值濾波(Median filter)將影像灰階
值以一個 m × m矩陣劃分，並對矩陣中像元灰階
值排序，取其中值 M，再以 M 值替代矩陣中心
點的值，逐步移動矩陣以除去雜訊(Justusson, 
1981; Nodes and Gallagher, 1982)，軟體預設值
m = 3 pixels。其優點為可用於去除雜訊，但仍保
持影像本身銳利度，但當影像雜訊超過 30%的時
候，雜訊濾除效果較差，而資料量變多時，其處
理時間會大幅增加。 
 −20− 
(a) (b)
 
圖 8 兩種粒徑分布參數檢定實驗照片：(a)原始影像與經過自動對比處理之均勻細顆粒影像；(b)原始影像
與經過自動對比處理之均勻粗顆粒影像 
 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
 (%
)
m=5 ( )
m=5 ( )
m=3 ( )
m=3 ( )
m=7 ( )
m=7 ( )= 4mm
 (mm)
m = 5, D50 = 4.5 mm m = 3, D50 = 4.15 mm m = 7, D50 = 5.12 mm
m = 5, D50 = 4.47 mm m = 3, D50 = 4.12 mm m = 7, D50 = 4.79 mm
(a)
(b)
 
圖 9 均勻細顆粒中值濾波檢定：(a)顆粒辨識結果
比較；(b)粒徑分布結果比較 
三、參數檢定 
本研究針對軟體可調整之各項參數，分別以
兩種不同粒徑分布(如圖 8 所示)進行檢定與驗
證。實驗(a)為均勻細顆粒，其粒徑範圍 3.36~4.76 
mm，平均粒徑= 4 mm；實驗(b)為均勻粗顆粒， 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 16 32 48 64 80 96 112 128
m=5 ( )
m=5 ( )
m=3 ( )
m=3 ( )
m=21( )
m=21 ( )
(%
)
(mm)
m = 5, D50 = 69.3 mm m = 3, D50 = 54.19 mm m = 21, D50 = 81.07 mm
m = 5, D50 = 77.44 mm m = 3, D50 = 59.25 mm m = 21, D50 = 82.87 mm
(a)
(b)
 
圖 10 均勻粗顆粒中值濾波檢定：(a)顆粒辨識結果
比較；(b)粒徑分布結果比較 
 
其粒徑範圍 64~119 mm，D50 = 94.5 mm，
D84/D16 = 1.5。各項參數檢定結果敘述如後。 
 
1. 中值濾波矩陣大小(m) 
中值濾波矩陣大小 m 對粒徑分布分析結果
之影響如圖 9 及圖 10 所示，由圖中可看出無論
是細顆粒或粗顆粒影像，經過自動對比之前處理
後，其顆粒辨識結果皆較原始影像為佳。圖 9顯 
 −22− 
0 256
(a)
=144
P = 60%
0 256
(b)
=150
P = 61%
0 256
(c)
=114
P = 71%
0 256
(d)
=192
P = 74%
 
圖 13 影像像元灰階值分布直方圖：(a)均勻細顆粒原始影像；(b)均勻細顆粒自動對比影像；(c)均勻粗顆
粒原始影像；(d)均勻粗顆粒自動對比影像 
 
(a)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
T1=35 ( )
T1=35 ( )
T1=2/3P ( )
T1=2/3P ( )
T1=1/2P ( )
T1=1/2P ( )
(%
)
(mm)
= 4mm
(b)
T1 = 35%, D50 = 4.5 mm T1 = 2P/3, D50 = 4.04 mm T1 = P/2, D50 = 5.24 mm
T1 = 35%, D50 = 4.47 mm T1 = 2P/3, D50 = 3.88 mm T1 = P/2, D50 = 4.82 mm
 
圖 14 均勻細顆粒 T1 門檻值檢定：(a)顆粒辨識結
果比較；(b)粒徑分布比較 
 
取其累積機率 P之 2/3及 1/2倍為均勻細顆粒 T1
門檻檢定值，均勻粗顆粒則因背景為黑色，第一
高峰灰階值為 0，因此取第二高峰灰階值累積機
率 P之 2/3及 1/4倍為 T1門檻檢定值。檢定結果
如圖 14、15所示。圖中可看出 T1為累積機率 P
之 2/3倍(~40%)時，對均勻細顆粒實驗有較好的 
T1=35 ( ) T1=35 ( )
T1=2/3P ( ) T1=2/3P ( )
T1=1/4P ( ) T1=1/4P ( )
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 16 32 48 64 80 96 112 128
(%
)
(mm)
(b)
D50 = 94.5mm
(a)
T1 = 35%, D50 = 69.3 mm T1 = 2P/3, D50 = 24.48 mm T1 = P/4, D50 = 72.85 mm
T1 = 35%, D50 = 77.4 mm T1 = 2P/3, D50 = 21.3 mm T1 = P/4, D50 = 78.1 mm
 
圖 15 均勻粗顆粒 T1 門檻值檢定：(a)顆粒辨識結
果比較；(b)粒徑分布比較 
 
辨識結果，均勻粗顆粒則會被切割過度。均勻粗
顆粒實驗中 T1為累積機率 P之 1/4倍(~18%)時，
辨識效果優於預設值結果。由檢定結果得知，以
像元灰階值直方圖高峰之累積機率 P 判斷 T1
值，細顆粒應大於軟體預設值，其值約為 2/3倍
高峰累積機率，以加大縫隙比例範圍；粗顆粒應 
 −24− 
表 2  乾燥均勻細顆粒實驗驗證結果 
實驗設置條件：粒徑 3.36~4.76 mm, Dmean = 4 mm 
驗證組別 預設值 Test1 Test2 Test3 
參數設定 
m = 5 pixels, 
s = 15 pixels, 
T1 = 35%, 
T2 = 1%, w = 1 
m = 3 pixels, 
s = 8 pixels, 
T1 = 2P/3, 
T2 =1%, w = 1 
m = 3 pixels, 
s = 8 pixels, 
T1 = 2P/3, 
T2 = 2%, w = 1 
m = 3 pixels, 
s = 8 pixels, 
T1 = 2P/3, 
T2 = 2%, w = 2 
影像處理 原始影像 自動對比 原始影像 自動對比 原始影像 自動對比 原始影像 自動對比 
D50 (mm) 4.50 4.47 3.64 3.56 3.63 3.56 3.87 3.80 
D84/D16 2.57 2.55 2.53 2.56 2.52 2.56 2.31 2.36 
 
w = 1 D50 = 4.5 mm w = 2 D50 = 4.81 mm w = 3 D50 = 5.14 mm 
w = 1 D50 = 4.47 mm w = 2 D50 = 4.76 mm w = 3 D50 = 5.19 mm 
(b) 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
W=1 ( )
W=1 ( )
W=2 ( )
W=2 ( )
W=3 ( )
W=4 ( )
(%
)
(mm)
= 4mm
(a)
 
圖 18 均勻細顆粒最小深度門檻值檢定：(a)顆粒辨
識結果比較；(b)粒徑分布比較 
 
值分布直方圖如圖 8(a)與圖 13(a)、(b)所示，實
驗設置條件與驗證結果分別如表 2 及圖 20 所
示。結果顯示乾燥細顆粒以影像經自動對比處
理，配合參數 m = 3 pixels，s = 8 pixels (1 mm)，
T1 = 2/3 倍灰階值直方圖高峰累積機率，T2 =  
(b) 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
W=1( )
W=1 ( )
W=5 ( )
W=5 ( )
W =15 ( )
W=15 ( )
D50 = 94.5mm
0 16 32 48 64 80 96 112 128
(%
)
(mm)
w = 1 D50 = 69.3 mm w = 5 D50 = 75.15 mm w = 15 D50 = 84.28 mm 
w = 1 D50 = 77.44 mm w = 5 D50 = 77.8 mm w = 15 D50 = 85.96 mm 
(a)
 
圖 19 均勻粗顆粒最小深度門檻值檢定：(a)顆粒辨
識結果比較；(b)粒徑分布比較 
 
2%，w = 2可得到較佳之辨識結果。 
 
2. 乾燥均勻粗顆粒 
乾燥均勻粗顆粒驗證實驗影像及像元灰階值
分布直方圖如圖 8(b)與圖 13(c)、(d)所示，實驗
設置條件與驗證結果分別如表 3 及圖 21 所示。
結果顯示乾燥均勻粗顆粒以影像經自動對比處 
 −26− 
0 256 0 256 0 256
 
圖 22  乾燥混合細顆粒實驗驗證影像及像元灰階值分布直方圖 
 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32
(a) 
 (%
)
 (mm)
D50=12.3mm
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32
 (mm)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
 (%
)
(b) 
D50=12.3mm
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
 (%
)
 (mm)
(c) 
D50=12.3mm
 
圖 23  乾燥混合細顆粒驗證結果：(a)參數預設值；(b)Test1；(c)Test2 
 
較大顆粒以人工方式圈出另行處理。 
 
4. 乾燥混合粗顆粒 
乾燥混合粗顆粒驗證實驗影像及像元灰階
值分布直方圖如圖 24 所示，其中人工調整方式
為將影像中大顆粒圈選出來，給予邊界並分別填
入灰色及白色，最後進行自動對比調整。乾燥混
合粗顆粒實驗設置條件與驗證結果分別如表 5及
圖 25 所示。結果顯示以人工方式將大顆粒圈選
出可大幅改善影像辨識結果，兩種不同影像前處
理方式所得結果差異性不大，但以人工圈選大顆
粒後填入白色較佳。整體以 Test2 (m = 9 pixels, 
s = 8 pixels, T1 = 1/3倍直方圖高峰累積機率，
T2 = 2%, w = 3)所得之D50與D84/D16結果與實
際粒徑分布計算結果較為接近。 
 
5. 潮濕均勻細顆粒 
潮濕均勻細顆粒驗證實驗影像及像元灰階
值分布直方圖如圖 26 所示，其中清晰濾鏡為影
像經自動對比後加上影像處理軟體 PhotoImpact
之清晰化選項，實驗設置條件與驗證結果分別如
表 6 及圖 27 所示。驗證結果顯示因水分造成細
顆粒黏合，使用參數預設值時大部分顆粒無法分
離辨識，辨識結果與實際粒徑分布差距甚遠，使
用清晰濾鏡結果有所改善，但整體均勻度
(D84/D16)皆較乾燥顆粒為差。其中以 Test2 
(m = 3 pixels, s = 6 pixels, T1 = 3/4倍灰階值直方
圖高峰累積機率, T2 = 2%, w = 2)所得之 D50與
實際平均粒徑結果較為接近。 
 
 −28− 
0 256 0 256 0 256
 
圖 26  潮濕均勻細顆粒實驗驗證影像及像元灰階值分布直方圖 
 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32
(a) (b) (c)
 
(%
)
=4mm
 (mm)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32
 
(%
)
 (mm)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32
 
(%
)
 (mm)
=4mm =4mm
 
圖 27  潮濕均勻細顆粒驗證結果：(a)參數預設值；(b)Test1；(c)Test2 
 
0 256 0 256 0 256
 
圖 28  潮濕均勻粗顆粒實驗驗證影像及像元灰階值分布直方圖 
 
6. 潮濕均勻粗顆粒 
潮濕均勻粗顆粒驗證實驗影像及像元灰階
值分布直方圖如圖 28 所示，其中自動對比均
化為影像經自動對比後加上影像處理軟體
PhotoImpact 之均化選項，人工調整乃以人工方
式將各單一顆粒圈選並給予模糊化。實驗設置條
件與驗證結果分別如表 7 及圖 29 所示。驗證結
果顯示潮濕均勻粗顆粒影像經人工調整後結果 
 −30− 
表 8  潮濕混合細顆粒實驗驗證結果 
實驗設置條件：粒徑 2~25.4 mm, D50 = 12.3 mm, D84/D16 = 3.31 
驗證組別 預設值 Test1 Test2 
參數設定 
m = 5 pixels, s = 15 pixels, 
T1 = 35%, T2 = 1%, w = 1 
m = 3 pixels, s = 7 pixels, 
T1 = 35%, T2 = 1%, w = 1 
m = 3 pixels, s = 7 pixels, 
T1 = 35%, T2 = 2%, w = 1 
影像處理 原始影像 自動對比 人工調整 原始影像 自動對比 人工調整 原始影像 自動對比 人工調整 
D50 (mm) 12.87 13.05 12.60 13.07 13.00 12.24 12.52 12.61 11.84 
D84/D16 3.42 3.13 3.38 3.81 3.53 3.61 3.81 3.55 3.72 
 
D50=12.3mm D50=12.3mm D50=12.3mm
(a) (b) (c) 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
 
(%
)
 (mm)
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
 
(%
)
 (mm)
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
 
(%
)
 (mm)
0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32
 
圖 31  潮濕混合細顆粒驗證結果：(a)參數預設值；(b)Test1；(c)Test2 
 
0 256 0 256 0 256
 
圖 32  潮濕混合粗顆粒實驗驗證影像及像元灰階值分布直方圖 
 
3 pixels, s = 7 pixels, T1 = 35%, T2 = 1%, w = 1)
所得之結果最佳，不同前處理方式所得結果差異
性不大。由驗證結果可知，將部分表面不光滑之
顆粒經人工處理後，利用預設參數值即可得到不
錯之結果。 
 
8. 潮濕混合粗顆粒 
潮濕混合粗顆粒驗證實驗影像及像元灰階
值分布直方圖如圖 32 所示，其中自動對比除圈
選出大顆粒外，同時使用自動對比調整，而人工
調整則是另將背景不平滑或表面反差過大之中
小顆粒圈選出後降低對比與均化。實驗設置條件
與驗證結果分別如表九及圖 33 所示。驗證結果
顯示潮濕混合粗顆粒影像經人工調整後結果較
佳，然因影像像元灰階值分布直方圖與乾燥混合
粗顆粒大不相同，最佳化參數亦不相同，以 Test2  
 −32− 
(m = 11 pixels, s = 7 pixels, T1 = 1/3倍直方圖高
峰累積機率，T2 = 2%, w = 3)所得之結果最佳。由
驗證結果可知，潮濕混合粗顆粒影像之預處理除
人工選取大顆粒外，其餘較不平滑之中小顆粒
若亦能做適當之處理，將可提高影像辨識效果。 
五、結論與建議 
使用數位相機拍照採樣並結合光篩軟體進
行影像處理與分析已成為未來調查河床質粒徑
分布之最新趨勢，不但可增進調查工作之效率
與便利性，所耗費之人力與成本亦可大幅減
少。本研究對目前唯一一套針對河床質粒徑分
析之光篩軟體做一完整介紹與參數檢定，並利
用八種不同粒徑組合與乾濕狀況進行分析結果
驗證，八組驗證實驗之最佳化影像預處理方式
與參數整理如表 10所示。研究結果顯示使用光
篩軟體進行粒徑分析具有高度可行性，下列建
議可供後續使用光篩軟體分析河床質粒徑分布
之參考依據： 
(1) 針對河床質顆粒影像進行簡單自動對比與大
顆粒圈選等預處理，可提高顆粒辨識度與粒
徑分析結果之準確性。 
(2) 各項參數值應針對不同粒徑組合做適當調
整，本研究結果可為初步參考。 
(3) 中值濾波矩陣大小(m)與底帽轉換結構元素
大小(s)，須依據粒徑大小調整，一般而言細
顆粒之 m值與 s值偏小，粗顆粒則應調大 m
值與 s值。 
(4) T1門檻值可用影像像元灰階值直方圖高峰之
累積機率做為調整之依據，細顆粒之 T1值可
採用直方圖高峰累積機率之 2/3或 3/4倍，粗
顆粒則可採用直方圖高峰累積機率之 1/3 或
1/4 倍；T2 可使用預設值，或在辨識顆粒無
法切割時略微調整，以加大縫隙比例。 
(5) 分水嶺最小深度門檻值(w)一般可使用預設
值，若辨識結果有過度切割之情形則可調大w
值，以去除顆粒中因陰影或紋路所造成之不
當縫隙。 
(6) 顆粒表面有水分或潮濕，將影響顆粒辨識準
確度，尤以細顆粒最為嚴重，應盡量避免。 
六、謝  誌 
本研究為國科會補助多年期整合型計畫「多
功能河川環境流量設計：水文、地貌、生態健康
與監測技術研究」(NSC 96-2628-E-002-136-MY3)
之部分成果。 
參考文獻 
1. Graham, D.J., Reid, I. and Rice, S.P., 2005a, 
Automated sizing of coarse grained sediments: 
Image-processing procedures, Mathematical 
Geology, 37(1):1-28. 
2. Graham, D.J., Rice, S.P. and Reid, I., 2005b, A 
transferable method for the automated grain sizing 
of river gravels, Water Resources Research, 41: 
W07020. 
3. Jackway, P.T., 2000, Improved morphological 
top-hat, Electr. Lett., 36(14): 1194-1195. 
4. Justusson, B.I., 1981, Median filtering: statistical 
properties, in Two-Dimensional Digital Signal 
Processing II, T. S. Huang, ed., Springer-Verlag, 
New York. 
5. Nodes, T., and Gallagher, N., 1982, Median filters: 
some modifications and their properties, IEEE 
Transactions on Acoustics, Speech and Signal 
Processing, ASSP-30, 739-746. 
6. Meyer, F., 1979, Cytologie Quantitative et 
Morphologie Math´ematique, unpublished doctoral 
dissertation, Ecole des Mines, Paris. 
7. Russ, J.C., 1999, The image processing handbook, 
3rd ed., CRC Press, Boca Raton, Florida. 
8. Soille, P., 2003, Morphological image analysis: 
Principles and applications, 2nd ed., Springer- 
Verlag, Berlin. 
9. Vincent, L., and Soille, P., 1991, Watersheds in 
digital spaces: An efficient algorithm based on 
immersion simulations, IEEE Transactions on 
Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 13: 
583-597. 
收稿日期：民國 97年 5 月 27日 
修正日期：民國 97年 7 月 9 日 
接受日期：民國 97年 7 月 9 日 
 
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳富春 計畫編號：96-2628-E-002-136-MY3 
計畫名稱：多功能河川環境流量設計：水文、地貌、生態健康與監測技術研究--總計畫 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 3 3 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 3 3 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 4 4 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
