 
C0 is the capacitance of the transducer below the 
resonant frequency minus capacitance C1 , 
R1 is the resistance caused by mechanical losses 
RL the resistance of the working load due to the 
radiated energy: in vacuum RL = 0, 
C1 the capacitance of the mechanical circuit and 
L1 is the inductance of the mechanical circuit 
Fig. 1. Equivalent circuit diagram of a PZT 
transducer. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Impedance and phase angle of two 
transducers made from the same company. 
 
B. Weight vs. frequency and impedance. 
The experimental setup is shown in Fig. 5. The 
transducer was placed on a table surface with the 
sonotrode pointing upwards. The transducer was 
connected as in the previous experiment to the 
impedance analyzer which was linked to the 
computer. Ultrasonic gel was put between the 
transducer and a polycarbonate bottle which was 
placed on the tip of the transducer. The bottle 
contained 50g of water. Another bottle was 
placed on top of the first bottle. The weight of 
the second bottle acted as a variable force 
applied on the tip of the sonotrode. Water was 
added in the second bottle up to 270g with a step 
of 10g each time. Data were collected from the 
impedance analyzer and a graph was presented 
on the computer.  
 
 (a)  
(b)   
(c) 
 
(d)
 
Fig. 3. Impedance of a transducer shown in 
(a) before (c) and after (d) the use of a 
matching circuit (b). 
 
 As can be seen in Fig. 11, the resonance 
frequency decreased with the weight. The range of 
the frequency decrease is about 40 Hz. In Fig. 12, 
the dependancy of the impedance of the transducer 
at resonance frequency with the applied weight is 
shown. The range of increase is about 10Ω but there 
is an increase of about 70Ω compared with the no 
load condition.  
The two experiments show that the 
dependance of the resonance frequency and the 
impedance of the transducer at resonance frequency 
can be different at different loading conditions. The 
tranducer was also mounted or positioned in such 
way that the sonotrode mounted on the transducer 
affect the loading conditions of the transducer. In the 
experiment A the weight of the sonotrode was 
pulling the transducer, while in experiment B the 
weight of the sonotrode was pressing the transducer. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 8. The relationship between the resonance 
frequency and the depth the tip of the sonotrode 
was dipped in the water (experiment A). The 
positioning system moved down the transducer 
with:  (a) a step of 5mm and (b) a step of 2mm. 
 
 
Fig. 10. Impedance of the transducer at different 
weight forces, applied at the tip of the sonotrode, 
ranging from 0g to 270g with a step of 10g each 
time (experiment B). 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 9. The relationship between the impedance 
of the transducer at the resonance frequency and 
the depth the tip of the sonotrode was dipped in 
the water (experiment A). The positioning system 
moved down the transducer with: (a) a step of 
5mm and (b) a step of 2mm. 
 
  
Fig. 15. Images of the software interface for 
manual positioning (left) and part of the 3d space 
scanner module (right). 
 
2. Acoustic field measurements in various 
containers 
Since ultrasound waves are not visible to our 
eyes, measurements of acoustic pressures and 
intensities are necessary to ensure that the cells will 
be exposure to safe for them levels of ultrasound 
stimulation. Unexpected focusing of the acoustic 
waves may locally result to cell exposure to higher 
pressure levels leading to unanticipated results.  
Some experimental measurements have been 
performed manually in various types of containers 
often used in laboratory experiments. The 
measurements have been performed using 
ultrasound and shock waves. The results showed that 
some of the shapes may increase the acoustic 
intensity inside them due to acoustical focusing. 
This focusing is present because the shape of the 
containers. In the case of plates, stronger attenuation 
is present with glass plates. The attenuations are not 
linear and are stronger for the positive pressures than 
the negative pressures. In the case of glass 
containers the reverberations of the acoustic signals 
within the glass have the result of waves of smaller 
amplitude but longer duration. Where selection of 
parameters is under concern, the selection should be 
done using the ultrasound exposure parameters 
presented at the cells positions and not the settings 
of the equipment. Furthermore, ultrasonic exposures 
also cannot be done at points where the containers 
have angled or curved surfaces in order to avoid 
focusing. 
 
2.1. Materials and Methods 
The Experimental setup to acquire acoustic data 
consists of a water tank, an ultrasonic transducer 
(200kHz, Prowave, Taiwan), a hydrophone [1] 
(PVDF hydrophone RP 10 s, RP Acoustics, 
Germany) to receive the ultrasonic signal, an 
oscilloscope to grab the signal from the hydrophone, 
function generator to produce the pulse signal, a 
motorized system to control the position of the 
hydrophone, and custom designed control software 
in a PC (see Fig. 15). GPIB interface was used to 
transfer the signal information from the oscilloscope 
to the PC. The containers used here are plastic and 
glass dishes (PC at 1.5mm thickness and glass at 
1.5mm thickness) and glass 250ml beakers (1.5mm 
thickness at its bottom). Fig. 16 demonstrates the 
experimental setup in this study.  
The software was written in C++ and 
contains a position control module, and a scanner 
module. The software can control the hydrophone 
position so that to perform scans automatically and 
save the signal information. 
  To produce an acoustic field, the probe was 
fixed at the bottom of water tank and the 
hydrophone was attached to the position control 
system. The total number of acquired data was for 
2,500 points (50 × 50) for the beaker and 1,600 
points (20×80) for the dishes. All the measurements 
were with a step of 1mm in each direction covering 
the middle vertical section of the containers, in the y, 
and z directions. The acquisition plane was aligned 
to pass through the middle of the ultrasound main 
beam. 
The acquired data were analyzed using 
MATLAB. The software was implemented for data 
analysis and visualization. 
 
 
Fig. 16. Schematic representation of the apparatus 
for scanning an acoustic field. 
 
A propagating acoustic wave carries energy. The 
pulse intensity integral can be calculated by the 
following integral [1], [3]: 
 dtZ
p
PII a
0
                                      (2) 
Where ap  is the acoustic pressure and 0Z  is the 
acoustic impedance. The units for the pulse intensity 
integral (PII) are Joules per square meter (J/m
2
). 
 
2.2. Results 
Fig. 17 shows the ultrasonic intensity maps of the 
transducer before and after placing the beaker in the 
direction of its beam. The intensity is noticeably 
decreased when the beaker is placed on top of the 
  
  
 
Fig. 18. Ultrasound intensity of a transducer: (A) with a glass dish on the transducer surface, (B) without 
the dish. Ultrasound intensity at the focus area: (C) with a glass dish, (D) without the dish. 
 
  
  
 
Fig. 19. Ultrasound intensity of a transducer: (A) with a PC dish on the transducer surface, (B) without the 
dish. Ultrasound intensity of at the focus area: (C) with a PC dish, (D) without the dish. 
 
I presented two papers as follows: 
1. Ioannis Manousakas, Guan-Huei Lin, Shwu-Jen Chang, Shyh-Ming Kuo, "Application of 
Ultrasonic Extrusion in the Preparation of Liposomes", The 4th International Conference 
on Bioinformatics and Biomedical Engineering (iCBBE 2010), Chengdu, China, 2010.06 
 
2. Benjamin Teong, Shwu Jen Chang, Ioannis Manousakas, Shyh-Ming Kuo, Li Chun Lin, 
"Preparation and characterization of chitosan microspheres encapsulating 
superparamagnetic Fe3o4 nanoparticles", The 4th International Conference on 
Bioinformatics and Biomedical Engineering (iCBBE 2010), Chengdu, China, 2010.06 
The papers presented in the conference will be included by IEEE Xplore and indexed by EI 
Compendex. The conference proceedings were given to the participants in CD form, which 
gives the opportunity to study deeper the presentations that I find more interesting or have 
missed because time overlapping. 
The papers in the proceedings were also given to my research students for study, in order to 
help them enhance their reading and studying ability and also their scientific background. 
 
The conference provided information on the research trends and the progress on biomedical 
engineering. These have affected my research directions and also the research project 
applications I have submitted or I will submit in the near future. 
 
三、建議 
None. 
四、其他 
None. 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：馬亞尼 計畫編號：98-2221-E-214-012- 
計畫名稱：超音波對間質幹細胞培養於膠原蛋白奈米微粒分化成心肌細胞之影響 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 100% 
篇 2 papers already 
published. One 
paper under 
preparation. 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 50% 
Journal paper 
under 
preparation. 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
