2中文摘要
隨著科技的進步與製造系統的自動化，如何能夠使所有的生產線正常運作，並且在發
生異常情況時能夠盡快地排除，其中監控人員的緊急應變處理能力更是影響主要的因素，
因此，本研究的目的為針對監控中心火災偵測系統發展緊急應變之專家系統，以達成提升
緊急事件處理的效率。透過業界訪談，獲得火災處理緊急應變程序的相關資料及訓練手冊，
運用知識擷取的技術將專家的知識以“IF-THEN-ELSE”的方式建立規則知識庫，以達到支
援決策之輔助，並且將此套系統建置在智慧型行動裝置上，提升災害資訊的通訊能力及監
控人員在緊急事件處理上的績效表現。
透過決策型專家系統、小型介面設計原則等相關文獻的探討，利用 Microsoft Visual
Basic.NET 程式開發工具進行智慧型行動裝置的專家系統建構，系統的驗證由二十名清華大
學工業工程碩士為受測者，另外，受測者隨機分成兩組，一組為傳統的訓練方式，另一組
使用 FDESS 的訓練方式，績效衡量的指標為：受測者訓練時間、安檢時間、安檢錯誤次數
以及火災程序處理分數。實驗的結果顯示，使用 FDESS 的績效顯著優於傳統緊急應變的方
式，在結論方面，提出本研究的貢獻、限制與未來發展性，有待未來加強更多的應用範圍
及層面，能在緊急事故發生時有效地扮演決策支援的角色。
關鍵詞：智慧型行動裝置、決策型專家系統、小型介面設計
英文摘要
Some incident and accident events may happen, such as earthquake, fire alarm, unstable
voltage, chemical gas and chemical liquor leaking may occur in modern semiconductor
manufacturing industry. In order to minimize the loss in the semiconductor production, the
emergency response center (ERC) plays a quite important role in risk control. Therefore, the
objective of this study is to develop the fire-detecting expert support system (FDESS) as a
decision support tool that can support the supervisors of ERC in emergency operation control.
After contacting with the ERC of a semiconductor industry, one gets some information about
the procedure of emergency operation control. At the same time, the literatures of small
interface design and emergency decision support system are reviewed. One used the Microsoft
Visual Basic.NET program to establish the FDESS on intelligent mobile device. For evaluation
of the different methods, each of the subjects was randomly assigned into one of two groups, the
control group or experiment group. The control group used manual to learn about the tasks of
safety inspection and emergency response control, whereas the experiment group used personal
digital assistant (PDA) device to learn about the tasks of safety inspection and emergency
response control.
By the results of the experiment, we found that the method of handling the emergency
response control significantly influences performance in fire control, the use of FDESS group
spent significantly less time and got significantly more test scores in fire control than traditional
group. In the future, it is worth to enrich the FDESS for emergency response control and risk
assessment.
Keywords: Intelligent mobile device, Expert support system, Small screen design
4that is hard to read. To study the use of PDA to support emergency response control, the necessary step is to look
more closely at some important features of small display.
C. Small Screen Features
At a more practical level, knowing the screen and bandwidth constraints of the current device can be used
intelligently, along with personal or task preferences to present appropriate data. In general, some general properties
should be considered in the small device [3]:
-Lines of text should be short.
-Concise/abbreviated and verbose versions are generated for use as needed.
-The hierarchy of menu options or data choices is shown to reflect the aggregate view.
-Thumbnail sketches may replace full images as default with full images by request.
-Contextual information is included in each screen.
-Data in table is filtered at source.
Previous study examined the effect of screen size on the overall of task performance and they found that the
smaller display impeded both focus and less directed search task performance. Moreover, many studies indicated that
the effect of the screen size on too much scrolling activity has significant influence on the performance of user, and
indicated that the scrolling can be reduced by the following strategies [4]:
-Placing navigational features (i.e. menu bars) near the top of displays in a fixed place.
-Placing key information at the top of displays.
-Reducing the amount of information on the display, and making the content task focused rather than diffused.
Previous study indicated that the main reason for this is that smaller screens make it increasingly more difficult for
a user to make good quality judgments about the usefulness of any particular search result or to gain a general
overview effectively [5]. Previous study has shown that smaller screens result in many more page forwards and
backwards interactions when subjects were asked to read and summarize text presented in a small window [6]. And
previous study showed that semitransparent navigational widgets improved performance on news reading on
personal digital assistant (PDA) size screens [7]. The designers will need to make sure that buttons are big enough to
press, that icons on a display are clearly and sensibly labeled, that the task structure does not make excessive
demands on people’s problem solving abilities [8].
III. EMERGENCY RESPONSE SYSTEM
A. Expert Support System
Decision support system (DSS) has evolved significantly since their early development in the 1970s. DSS is
computer technology solutions that can be used to support complex decision-making and problem solving. Previous
study indicated that classic DSS tool design is comprised of components for (1) sophisticated database management
capabilities with access to internal and external data, information, and knowledge, (2) powerful modeling functions
accessed by a model management system, and (3) powerful of simple user interface designs that enable interactive
queries, reporting, and graphing functions [9]. In the future, the decision-makers will access electric services through
their PDA or other wireless devices as much as through their desktop computers. The supervisor of ERC needs to go
to the site of accident after receiving alarm message. This study is primarily to apply DSS for dealing with
emergency events by the intellectual mobile device, and focus on the design of interface. Via PDA, the DSS can be
used at any time, from anywhere, and under time pressure constraints. Further, considering IF-THEN-ELSE rules
into the DSS, one can call it expert support system (ESS) that also serves as a tutoring system. The human-computer
6encourage supervisors to use solutions based on PDA. Therefore, the study chose PDA to substitute walky-talky. Fig.
2 shows the conceptual model of PDA solution.
Fig. 2. The conceptual model of PDA solution
C. A Prototype of ESS
The framework of fire-detecting expert support system (FDESS) has three layers. Fig. 3 shows the construction of
FDESS. The first layer is the front page of FDESS. The second layer has two parts: an ES of fire control procedure
and safety inspection. The third layer is the contents of the above layers. According to the materials collected and
interview with supervisors of ERC, the fire control procedure can be divided into six steps and one support
specification: fire alarm, confirmation on sites, incident event, primary response, establish ERT, recover system and
material safety data sheet (MSDS).
Fig. 3. The framework of FDESS
The development of interface is based on principles of small screen design [3] [4] [10], and is summarized as
follows:
-Perceptual principles: top-down processing was used to arrange the procedure of fire control.
-Mental model principle: the realism illustration was used to support the supervisors in the safety inspection.
8performance of procedure examination.
-Training time: time of learning the tasks of safety inspection and fire control procedure.
-Safety inspection time: time interval from the beginning to the end of the safety inspection.
-Error frequency: the frequency of making a mistake when doing safety inspection.
-Test scores: A written test for procedure of fire control.
B. Results and Discussion
In this study, the performance of all participates was evaluated by these four indicates: training time, safety
inspection time, error frequency and the test scores. Table 1 shows the results of experiment.
In summary, Firstly the training time when using PDA is significantly different from that of traditional method
(p<.05). From the sample means for the two groups, one can see the PDA group spent significantly less training
time than traditional group. Secondly the safety inspection time when using PDA is significantly different from that
of traditional method (p<.05). From the sample means for the two groups, one can see the PDA group spent
significantly more safety inspection time than traditional group. Thirdly there is no significant difference in error
frequency when using PDA versus traditional method. And finally the test scores when using PDA is significantly
different from that of traditional method (p<.001). From the sample means for the two groups, one can see the PDA
group get significantly higher test scores than traditional group.
Table 1 The t-test for average test scores of independent populations (α=0.05)
Dependent Variable Training Time
Independent Variable PDA Group Traditional Group
Mean 1058.22 1368.84
Standard Deviation 271.80 324.94
Sample Size 10 10
Degree of Freedom 18
T-value -2.319
P-value 0.032*
Dependent Variable Safety Inspection Time
Independent Variable PDA Group Traditional Group
Mean 355.68 288.18
Standard Deviation 71.93 63.47
Sample Size 10 10
Degree of Freedom 18
T-value 2.225
P-value 0.039*
Dependent Variable Error frequency
Independent Variable PDA Group
Traditional
Group
Mean Rank 8.85 12.15
Sum of Ranks 88.5 121.5
10
inspection. In addition, it benefits ERC to accumulate the records data for the future to predict the probability
faults.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors express sincere thanks to the National Science Council of TAIWAN, ROC for the financial support
under the grant number No. 94-2213-E-327-006- and director Xiao of a Semiconductor Corporation in Hsin-Chu
Science Industrial Park for our pilot study.
REFERENCES
[1] J. Pascoe, N. Ryan and D. Marse, Using while moving: HCI issues in fieldwork environments, ACM
Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI), Vol. 7 No. 3, 2000, pp. 417-437.
[2] T. Kontogiannis and D. Embrey, A user-centred design approach for introducing computer-based process
information systems, Applied Ergonomics, Vol. 28, 1997, pp. 109-119.
[3] C. Watters, J. Duffy and K. Duffy, Using large tables on small devices, International Journal of
Human-Computer Studies, Vol. 60, 2004, pp. 564-584.
[4] M. Jones, G. Marsden, N. Mohd-Nasir, K, Boone and G. Buchanan, Improving Web interaction on small displays,
Computer Networks, Vol. 31, 1999, pp. 1129-1137.
[5] M. Jones, G. Buchanan and H. Thimbleby, Improving web search on small screen devices, Interacting with
Computers, Vol. 15, 2003, pp. 479-495.
[6] A. Dillon, J. Richardson and C. McKnifgt, The effect of display size and text splitting on reading lengthy text
from the screen, Behavior and Information Technology, Vol. 9 No. 3, 1999, pp. 215-227.
[7] T. Kamba, S. Elson, T. Harpold and N. Piyawadee, Using small screen space more efficiently (pp. 383-390),
Proceedings of the CHI’96: Conference on Human Factors in Computer Systems, April 13-18, 1996, Vancouver,
BC, Canada: ACM.
[8] D. Benyon, The new HCI? Navigation of information space, Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol. 14, 2001, pp.
425-430.
[9] J.P. Shim, M. Warkentin, F. James, J. Daniel, R. Sharda and C. Carlsson, Past, present, and future of decision
support technology, Decision Support Systems, Vol. 33, 2002, pp. 111-126.
[10] D. Christopher, E. Sallie and L. Yili, An Introduction to Human Factors Engineering, Pearson Education, 2002.
[11] M. Wojtek, R. Steven, S. Roman and W. Szymon, Mobile clinical support system for pediatric emergencies,
Decision Support Systems, Vol. 36, 2003, pp. 161-176.
計劃成果自評
隨著科技的進步與製造系統的自動化，如何能夠使所有的生產線正常運作，並且在發
生異常情況時能夠盡快地排除，其中監控人員的緊急應變處理能力更是影響主要的因素，
因此，本研究的目的為針對監控中心火災偵測系統發展緊急應變之專家系統，以達成提升
緊急事件處理的效率。透過業界訪談，獲得火災處理緊急應變程序的相關資料及訓練手冊，
運用知識擷取的技術將專家的知識以“IF-THEN-ELSE”的方式建立規則知識庫，以達到支援
決策之輔助，並且將此套系統建置在智慧型行動裝置上，提升災害資訊的通訊能力及監控
人員在緊急事件處理上的績效表現。
透過決策型專家系統、小型介面設計原則等相關文獻的探討，利用 Microsoft Visual
