Real-time finger-controlled navigation system
using laser speckle patterns
Chih-Ming Liao
National Defense University
Chung Cheng Institute of Technology
Department of Electrical and
Electronic Engineering
Taoyuan 335, Taiwan
Ping S. Huang
Ming Chuan University
Department of Electronic Engineering
Taoyuan 333, Taiwan
E-mail: pshuang@mail.mcu.edu.tw
Chung-Cheng Chiu
National Defense University
Chung Cheng Institute of Technology
Department of Electrical and
Electronic Engineering
Taoyuan 335, Taiwan
Yi-Yuh Hwang
Shin-I Ma
Chung-Shan Institute of Science
and Technology
Taoyuan 335, Taiwan
Abstract. We used the invariance of moving laser speckle patterns to
develop a finger-controlled navigation system. Laser speckle images
were captured using a commercially available image sensor. The rela-
tionships between template image size, available movement range, and
a maximum correlation coefficient were derived. An essential criterion for
setting the correlation coefficient threshold value was determined, and a
displacement estimation algorithm was developed. A navigation system
test platform and an accuracy analysis program were developed to moni-
tor system performance related to variations in the template image size
and the correlation threshold value. The experimental results suggest
that the proposed design would be suitable to guide further development
of finger-controlled navigation systems using laser speckle patterns.
© 2010 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers. DOI: 10.1117/1.3431669
Subject terms: laser speckle patterns; optical navigation system; finger-controlled
navigator.
Paper 090604RR received Aug. 11, 2009; revised manuscript received Mar. 31,
2010; accepted for publication Apr. 8, 2010; published online May 28, 2010.
1 Introduction
Detailed light speckles can be generated by laser light
sources via an optical interference reaction. Such speckle
patterns are normally considered “noise” that deteriorates
image quality. However, laser speckle patterns LSPs have
been used in measurement techniques since they were dis-
covered to be correlated with the displacement of the light
source.
1 LSPs are widely used in deformation and rough-
ness detection problems for mechanical materials,2–4 and
laser light is regarded as an appropriate light source for
optical recognition. Compared to the light from light-
emitting diodes, laser light has high coherence and can di-
rectly reflect surface details, allowing for feature recogni-
tion without the need for shadow,5 and generated images
can have higher resolution.
By applying image-processing techniques to moving
LSPs, we developed a real-time finger-controlled naviga-
tion system. Figure 1 shows that a finger-controlled moving
pad was installed above an optical speckle capturing
device6 developed by the Laser Physics Section of the
Chung-Shan Institute of Science and Technology. Using the
capturing device, LSPs from eight different test-pad mate-
rials were captured and analyzed. Analysis of speckle pat-
tern positioning data showed that the optical speckle cap-
turing device demonstrated superior performance as regards
motion linearity and positioning resolution.7
A practical real-time image-processing system for LSPs
was developed by examining the position and pattern pro-
files of laser speckles and corresponding parameter values,
such as template size and coefficient thresholds. The system
verifies speckle invariance characteristics during movement
and validates the performance of the finger-controlled navi-
gation system.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 introduces the principles of laser speckles. Sec-
tion 3 outlines the method for building a finger-controlled
navigation system, and experimental results are illustrated
and discussed. A demonstration system to trace speckle pat-
terns in real time is described in Section 4, and our conclu-
sions are presented in Section 5.
2 Principles of Laser Speckles
Figure 1 shows that when a highly coherent light beam
from a laser light source is aimed at a surface, scattered
light reflected from the surface passes through a light-
restrictive element that consists of an aperture and lens,
creating a diffractive effect for any incoming scattered
light. The diffractive effect forms several concentric rings,
called Airy disks, on the image sensor.
The half-width  of the central bright spot, the wave-
length  of the light wave, the diameter d of the aper-0091-3286/2010/$25.00 © 2010 SPIE
Optical Engineering 495, 054301 May 2010
Optical Engineering May 2010/Vol. 495054301-1
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 01 Jun 2010 to 61.61.254.9. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
and threshold value characteristics during image process-
ing. The system consisted of an X-Y table, a speckle cap-
turing device, and a computer with image frame capture
software. The speckle capturing device included a laser di-
ode, an optical lens, and an off-the-shelf, high-resolution
digital camera DALSA 1M28 serving as the image sensor.
The X-Y table was used to describe the relative movement
between the speckle capturing device and test-pad materi-
als. The source laser wavelength was 650 nm Quarton
VLM-650-01 LPA, and the image sensor pixel size was
10.610.6 m. The total image sensor size was 1024
1024 pixels, but only an area of 3232 pixels, defined
as the region of interest ROI, was transmitted to the frame
capture program.
Eight test-pad materials listed in Table 1 were assessed
for performance verification. Sample image sequences were
captured by moving the X-Y table along the y-axis with a
step size of 20 m. Comparative analysis of the speckle
patterns captured in the y-axis sequences for each of the
eight test-pad materials showed the speckle patterns to be
invariant. Exemplar speckle patterns are shown in Fig. 4.
On moving the X-Y table along the x-axis, the correspond-
ing speckle patterns of the eight tested pad materials were
still invariant.
3.2 Selection of Template Size and Threshold Value
Normalized cross-correlation NCC was used to estimate
the movement of speckle patterns. The relationship of ref-
erence image to template image is shown in Fig. 5. The first
captured image in a sequence was labeled as the reference
image. Successive images template images were cropped
and matched with the reference image while the tested pad
material was moved. The size of each template image must
be smaller than the reference image for NCC matching to
work correctly. We set the reference image size to 32
32 pixels and cropped the template images to a smaller
size.
NCC matching was performed on each sequential tem-
plate image to assess the relationship between relative dis-
placement and the maximum correlation coefficient. The
size of each template image was systematically changed
from 22, to 44,66, . . . ,3030 pixels. As template
image size increases, movement range inside the reference
image decreases. NCC matching is designed to find a suit-
able template image size and the appropriate threshold
value for determining speckle pattern movement param-
eters. Template sizes of 66 and 1414 pixels were se-
lected as two typical cases for this study.
As shown in Fig. 6, Smin was defined as the minimum
value of the maximum correlation coefficients inside the
range of available movement, and Nmax was defined as the
maximum value of those maximum correlation coefficients
outside the range of available movement. With increasing
template size, available movement range decreases, and the
Smin /Nmax ratio increases. When the value of Smin is larger
than Nmax, a correct threshold value can be decided for
displacement in the image plane. There is a projection ef-
fect on the y offset along the y direction, as described in
Section 2.
For a 66–pixel template, the available movement
range was calculated as 32−6 /2=13 pixels. The relative
displacement y offset, as shown in Fig. 6a, was accurately
Table 1 Eight test pad materials.
No. Material Source
1 Black metal Agilent: LaserStream Mouse Kit
2 Photo surface Agilent: LaserStream Mouse Kit
3 White paper Agilent: LaserStream Mouse Kit
4 AL pad Shelf pad
5 Photo paper Avago: Optical Navigation Surface
Demonstration Kit
6 Spruce/white pine Avago: Optical Navigation Surface
Demonstration Kit
7 White delrin Avago: Optical Navigation Surface
Demonstration Kit
8 X-PAD III Shelf pad
Fig. 4 Exemplar speckle patterns of eight different test pad materi-
als: a Agilent black metal, b Agilent photo surface, c Agilent
white paper, d AL mouse pad, e Avago photo paper, f Avago
spruce/white pine, g Avago white delrin, and h X-PAD III mouse
pad.
Fig. 5 Relationship of reference image to template image.
Liao et al.: Real-time finger-controlled navigation system using laser speckle patterns
Optical Engineering May 2010/Vol. 495054301-3
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 01 Jun 2010 to 61.61.254.9. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
ing area decreased, and the moving speed of the test-
pad material was restricted. Because a larger template
image size results in a larger Smin /Nmax ratio, it is
essential to set a proper threshold value for displace-
ment estimation, and the value should be lower than
Smin.
4. When the available movement range of the template
image inside the reference image increased, the abil-
ity to trace sudden navigation movements in random
directions improved, as long as the image-capture
frame rate remained constant. Conversely, with a
fixed available movement range, the ability to trace
sudden navigation movements became easier as the
image-capture frame rate increased. Thus, the allow-
able speed of movement was proportional to the
image-capturing frame rate. If Dsm equals the dis-
tance in microns of a sudden movement between
two consecutive frame images, Fps equals the image-
capture frame rate in frames per second, and Ssm
equals the speed in microns per second of the sud-
den movement, then their relationship can be given
by
Ssm = Dsm Fps. 3
For example, for a template size of 1818 pixels,
the available movement range was 7 pixels, so the
allowable distance of sudden movement was
74.2 m Dsm=710.6 m. For a frame speed of
500 fps, the allowable speed of movement was
37,100 m /s Ssm=74.2 m500 s−1.
3.3 Resolution Test
The movement accuracy resolution of the finger-
controlled navigation system was determined using the
X-PAD III mouse pad, because it exhibited the greatest
estimated displacement accuracy, as shown in Figs. 7 and 8.
Using the configuration shown in Fig. 3, the X-Y table was
moved in a 3-in.-diam circular path and the motion trace
was recorded simultaneously. The image-capture frame rate
was 125 fps, and the X-Y table was moved at a speed of
2500 m /s. A curve-fitting method was used to estimate
displacement of the test pad. The displacement estimation
algorithm parameter values for template size and threshold
were set to 1818 pixels and 80%, respectively.
As shown in Fig. 9a, the circle center and radius can be
estimated after one complete movement and the difference
between the circle and the X-Y table driving path can be
calculated. The accumulated traces of ten circle-drawing
movements are shown in Fig. 9b, and the corresponding
data are listed in Table 2. The computed average error ratio
was 0.235%, and roundness was 0.3%. These values in-
dicate that speckle patterns are motion invariant and the
stability of the motion trace can be applied to precision
machinery positioning corrections.
4 Tracing Speckle Patterns in Real Time
To demonstrate the system, we constructed a framework
with moving test pads above an optical speckle capturing
device. The demonstration system is shown in Fig. 10. The
speckle-capturing device was mounted inside the test box
with a small hole in the top for laser light to penetrate.
Thus, the relative movement between the test pad and navi-
gator device could be simulated. Alternative applications
could replace the moving test pad with a rolling track ball
to simulate a spherical surface.
A real-time, finger-controlled system was also built to
assess the movement of speckle images in relation to the
motion of the test pad. To verify real-time performance in
estimating the displacement of speckle images, a computer
was used to emulate the microprocessor that would be
present inside a navigation device, and the NCC method
was used for correlation matching of speckle images in the
displacement estimation algorithm. The report rate of a
navigation device mouse was also simulated by transmit-
ting the displacement information to the data-processing
threads periodically see Section 4.2.
The demonstration system displayed a speckle image
Fig. 9 a Estimated circle trace and b accumulation of ten circle traces.
Liao et al.: Real-time finger-controlled navigation system using laser speckle patterns
Optical Engineering May 2010/Vol. 495054301-5
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 01 Jun 2010 to 61.61.254.9. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
template image area would move beyond the reference im-
age if the test pad moved too fast. Also, speckle images
would be undetectable if the test pad was lifted away from
the test box. For these two abnormal conditions, the calcu-
lated NCC maximum correlation value would be extremely
low. This would cause the processing program to reset the
reference image to the current image, and displacement ac-
cumulation would be temporarily suspended. Essentially,
the screen cursor would stay at its current position and the
current image would become the reference image used for
the next matching process. Any system design should take
these situations into account to avoid random skips of the
display cursor.
5 Conclusions
A finger-controlled navigation system to estimate the
movement of speckle images was developed and tested.
Eight different test-pad materials were used. Corresponding
speckle images were captured, and the characteristics of
repeatable correlation patterns were studied. The test-pad
material with the best performance was chosen for the
finger-controlled navigation system. After analyzing the re-
lationship between available movement range, template im-
age size, and maximum correlation coefficient, an essential
criterion for setting the correlation coefficient threshold
was determined. Using rules developed from captured in-
variant LSPs, the direction and displacement of moving
speckle patterns were estimated accurately, and the esti-
mated information was used to accurately move the screen
cursor.
A Windows-based computer program was developed to
demonstrate that the captured speckle images and motion
trace could be very accurately recorded and displayed in
real time. The displacement estimation algorithm that we
developed could be used as a reference for developing
finger-controlled navigation systems based on LSPs. The
test-pad displacement error was 0.3%. Thus, this tech-
nique could be used for developing precision machinery-
positioning systems. Finally, the speckle patterns analyzed
presented unique properties for different surface areas of
the same material. These offer the potential for the use of
speckle patterns in security applications by using a personal
identification card in place of the test pad to recognize the
identity of a specific subject.
Acknowledgments
The authors express sincere thanks to the anonymous re-
viewers for their valuable comments and the National Sci-
ence Council of the Republic of China for financially sup-
porting this work under Contract No. NSC 98-2221-E-130-
008.
References
1. J. Brillaud and F. Lagattu, “Limits and possibilities of laser speckle
and white-light image-correlation methods: theory and experiments,”
Appl. Opt. 4131, 6603–6613 2002.
2. L. C. Leonard and V. Toal, “Roughness measurement of metallic
surfaces based on the laser speckle contrast method,” Opt. Lasers
Eng. 30, 433–440 1998.
3. A. Kato, “Detection of fatigue damage in steel using laser speckle,”
Opt. Lasers Eng. 33, 323–433 2000.
4. A. M. Hamed, H. El-Ghandoor, F. El-Diasty, and M. Saudy, “Analy-
sis of speckle images to assess surface roughness,” Opt. Laser Tech-
nol. 36, 249–253 2004.
5. P. Popov, S. Pulov, and V. Pulov, “A laser speckle pattern technique
for designing an optical computer mouse,” Opt. Lasers Eng. 42,
21–26 2004.
6. Y.-Y. Hwang, M. Chen, M.-R. Wang, W.-C. Huang, and S.-I. Ma,
“Device and method for capturing speckles,” U.S. Patent No. 2007/
0139659 A1 2007.
7. C.-M. Liao, P. S. Huang, Y.-Y. Hwang, M. Chen, and C.-C. Chiu,
“Robust technique of analyzing and locating laser speckle patterns
for optical computer mice,” Opt. Lasers Eng. 47, 875–883 2009.
8. Y.-Y. Hwang, M. Chen, S.-I. Ma, C.-D. Hwang, M.-R. Wang, and W.
C. Huang, “Image invariant optical speckle capturing device and
method,” U.S. Patent No. 2008/0088853 A1 2008.
Fig. 11 Windows-based processing flowchart: a speckle image processing thread and b output
control thread.
Liao et al.: Real-time finger-controlled navigation system using laser speckle patterns
Optical Engineering May 2010/Vol. 495054301-7
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 01 Jun 2010 to 61.61.254.9. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
 國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
在本年度國科會計畫執行期間,應用於手指導覽系統(Finger Navigation 
System)的初步成果已發表於 Optical Engineering 期刊,此技術可實際應用於個
人電子裝置如筆記型電腦與智慧型手機等。因雷射光斑的應用相當廣泛及重
要，我們將於 100 年度國科會計畫申請的研究主軸放在相當具有實用價值之
身份識別卡的應用上，希望能藉由後續計畫之經費支援，繼續開發重要之雷
射光斑應用及尋求最佳解決方案。 
 
 
 
附件二 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、參加會議經過 
The First International Conference on Pervasive Computing, Signal Processing and 
Applications是哈爾濱工業大學與高雄應用科技大學合辦，IEEE 中國哈爾濱分會與台
灣台南分會所協辦的第一次國際研討會。本研討會於2010年9月17日至19日在中國黑
龍江省的哈爾濱市舉辦，大會會場是在哈爾濱工業大學科學園內的國際會議廳。大
會在三天的會議中規劃了22個regular sessions 及4個 poster session，論文投稿總數為
566篇，審查後共接受與收錄了317篇論文。會議中的主要議題則包含了普及計算、
訊號處理與影像處理/圖訊識別等相關應用領域。 
我於9/16 上午9:20 搭乘長榮航空由桃園直飛北京的班機，時間約三小時。下午
16:10 轉乘中國南方航空飛哈爾濱，時間約一個半小時。雖然真正飛行時間只有將近
五小時，但因需轉機，還是花了九小時的時間。9/17是本次PCSPA2010會議的第一天，
主要是開幕式及兩個keynote speech，分別由美國Potland Sate University 的李斧教授
及台灣成功大學的楊家輝教授演講。另外兩個keynote speech 則安排於9/19 上午，分
別由冰島Reykjavik University的Sverrir Olafsson教授及英國Reading University的鄭富
春教授演講。在keynote speech後，大會就開始安排論文的發表。本次會議每天皆進
行到17:00 結束。 
會議結束後隔天我預計於9/20 下午15:20 搭乘中國南方航空先飛北京後，再轉乘
長榮航空由北京直飛桃園的班機返台。但因中國南方航空飛機臨時機械故障，延遲
了兩小時，以致於未能轉搭上飛台灣之班機，而由南方航空安排於機場附近旅館過
夜，隔日再自行設法解決機票問題後返台。 
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-130 -008 
計畫名稱 雷射光斑影像之分析與定位及其應用之研究 (II) 
出國人員
姓名 黃炳森 
服務機構
及職稱 銘傳大學電子工程系/專任教授 
會議時間 99年 9月 17日至 99 年 9 月 19 日 會議地點 中國哈爾濱 
會議名稱 
(中文)  2010 年普及計算、訊號處理及應用國際會議 
(英文)  The First International Conference on Pervasive Computing, Signal 
Processing and Applications (PCSPA2010) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)使用於精密定位之雷射光斑影像即時分析 
(英文)Real-time Analysis of Laser Speckle Patterns for Precision Positioning
附件四 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                              99 年 9 月 23 日 
報告人姓名 黃炳森 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
銘傳大學電子工程系 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
99 年 9 月 16 日至 20 日 
中國哈爾濱 
本會核定
補助文號 NSC 98-2221-E-130 -008 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)2010 年普及計算、訊號處理及應用國際會議 
 (英文) The First International Conference on Pervasive Computing, Signal Processing 
and Applications (PCSPA2010) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)使用於精密定位之雷射光斑影像即時分析 
 (英文) Real-time Analysis of Laser Speckle Patterns for Precision Positioning 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
The First International Conference on Pervasive Computing, Signal Processing and Applications
是哈爾濱工業大學與高雄應用科技大學合辦，IEEE 中國哈爾濱分會與台灣台南分會所協辦的第
一次國際研討會。本研討會於 2010 年 9 月 17 日至 19 日在中國黑龍江省的哈爾濱市舉辦，大會
會場是在哈爾濱工業大學科學園內的國際會議廳。大會在三天的會議中規劃了 22 個 regular 
sessions 及 4 個 poster session，論文投稿總數為 566 篇，審查後共接受與收錄了 317 篇論文。會
議中的主要議題則包含了普及計算、訊號處理與影像處理/圖訊識別等相關應用領域。 
我於 9/16 上午 9:20 搭乘長榮航空由桃園直飛北京的班機，時間約三小時。下午 16:10 轉乘中
國南方航空飛哈爾濱，時間約一個半小時。雖然真正飛行時間只有將近五小時，但因需轉機，還
是花了九小時的時間。9/17 是本次 PCSPA2010 會議的第一天，主要是開幕式及兩個 keynote 
speech，分別由美國 Potland Sate University 的李斧教授及台灣成功大學的楊家輝教授演講。另外
兩個 keynote speech 則安排於 9/19 上午，分別由冰島 Reykjavik University 的 Sverrir Olafsson 教授
及英國 Reading University 的鄭富春教授演講。在 keynote speech 後，大會就開始安排論文的發表。
本次會議每天皆進行到 17:00 結束。 
會議結束後隔天我預計於 9/20 下午 15:20 搭乘中國南方航空先飛北京後，再轉乘長榮航空由
北京直飛桃園的班機返台。但因中國南方航空飛機臨時機械故障，延遲了兩小時，以致於未能轉
搭上飛台灣之班機，而由南方航空安排於機場附近旅館過夜，隔日再自行設法解決機票問題後返
台。 
我與學生的論文所發表的時間被安排在 10/18 的上午 8:30 ~ 10:00，報告過程中，很高興能與
多位此一領域的專家學者交換心得，對於我未來在此方面的研究頗有助益。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
Real-time Analysis of Laser Speckle Patterns for Precision Positioning 
Ping S. Huang 
Department of Electronic Engineering 
Ming Chuan University 
Taoyuan 333, Taiwan 
e-mail: pshuang@mail.mcu.edu.tw 
Chih-Ming Liao and Chung-Cheng Chiu 
Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
Chung Cheng Institute of Technology 
National Defense University 
Taoyuan 335, Taiwan 
 
 
Abstract—This paper presents the real-time analysis for 
moving laser speckle patterns by using image processing 
techniques. Based on the characteristics of repeatable and 
correlated patterns, the method of dynamic correlation 
matching is adopted to develop precision positioning rules for 
laser speckle patterns. This is to verify that the image 
capturing device for invariant laser speckle patterns can not 
only be used for laser optical mice, but also can be applied for 
precision positioning. Experimental results demonstrate that 
accurate direction and displacement information of moving 
speckle patterns can be obtained in real-time and this can be 
used to correctly drive the computer cursor like operating a 
real computer mouse. Therefore, the proposed system design is 
suitable for developing applications of precision positioning in 
the future. 
Keywords- Laser Speckle Patterns; Real-time analysis; 
Precision positioning. 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Detailed light speckles can be produced by laser light 
sources through the optical interference effect. Speckles that 
are not related to the displacement of the light source are 
normally considered as noises and believed to deteriorate the 
image quality. However, laser speckle patterns (LSPs) have 
been used in measurement techniques since they were 
discovered to be correlated with the displacement of the light 
source [1]. Currently, laser speckles are widely applied at the 
deformation and roughness detection problems for 
mechanical materials [2-3] and laser light is regarded as an 
appropriate light source for optical recognition. Compared 
with the Light Emitting Diodes (LEDs), laser is a light 
source with high coherence that can directly reflect the 
surface details suitable for recognition [4-5]. Furthermore, 
the computer mice using laser light sources can have a great 
improvement at the surface discriminability and better 
tracking ability than those using LEDs. For smooth surfaces 
like metal, painted wood tables, and photo papers, laser 
computer mice still can precisely detect displacement 
information and transmit it to the computer where the 
accurate cursor position can be located [6]. 
This paper presents the real-time analysis for moving 
laser speckle patterns by using image processing techniques. 
Using the prototype of experimental laser mouse [7] we have 
developed, invariant laser speckle patterns captured from 
different mouse pad materials can be analyzed. Based on the 
characteristics of repeatable and correlated patterns, the 
method of dynamic correlation matching is adopted to 
develop precision positioning rules for laser speckle patterns. 
This is to verify that the image capturing device for invariant 
laser speckle patterns can not only be used for laser optical 
mice, but also can be applied for precision positioning. 
This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces 
the properties of laser speckles. In Section 3, the proposed 
method for building a system of real-time analysis for laser 
speckle patterns is described. Experimental results are 
illustrated and discussed in Section 4, prior to Conclusions in 
Section 5. 
II. PROPERTIES OF LASER SPECKLES 
In this paper, we adopt the laser mouse prototype [7] 
developed by Laser Physics Section, Materials and Electro-
Optics Research Division, Chung-Shan Institute of Science 
and Technology, Taiwan, to generate laser speckle patterns. 
By referring to the detailed structure of prototype shown in 
Fig. 1, a highly coherent light emitted from a light source is 
used to illuminate a surface and produces scattered lights. 
The scattered lights pass through a light restrictive element 
that is implemented using an aperture with small diameter, 
resulting in the diffractive effect for the incoming scattered 
lights. Therefore, several concentric light rings are formed on 
the image sensor. The central part represents forms a bright 
spot with a lateral width of 2δ. The half-width δ of the bright 
spot can be obtained by 
z
d
λδ 22.1=
                                  (1) 
where  λ is the light wavelength, d is the hole diameter, and  
z is the distance between the hole and the screen. 
 
Fig. 1. The detailed structure of the laser mouse prototype [11] 
the maximum peak value of NCC maximum correlation 
coefficients outside the range of Available Movement.  
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 4. The relationship of Y-Offset and Maximum Coefficient 
(a)Template Size= 6 6×  (b)Temple Size =14 14×  
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 5. (a)  minS  v.s. Template Image Size   (b)  min max/S N v.s. 
Template Image Size 
Since the template size is too small, the position-locating 
error appears for the relative displacement Y-Offset while 
setting the template size to 4 4×  and using the material of 
X-PAD III. Figure 4(a) shows the experimental results by 
setting the template size to 6 6× . The results show that the 
relative displacement Y-Offset can be correctly decided 
inside the range of Available Movement (0~13 pixels). Note 
that there is a relative low value of NCC Maximum 
Correlation Coefficient at Frame 5 and this minS  value is 
0.8403. At Frame 32, the maxN  value is 0.8417. Hence, the 
value of min max/S N  is 0.9983. Since maxN  is greater than 
minS  and the value of  min max/S N  is smaller than 1, the 
decision error appears while adopting the NCC Maximum 
Correlation Coefficient to decide the correctness of position-
locating. 
By individually increasing the template size to larger 
values, we can conclude that the range of Available 
Movement becomes smaller while using a larger template 
size. A large difference between minS  and maxN  is helpful 
for setting the threshold value to decide the correctness of 
position-locating. The corresponding experimental results for 
the template size of 14 14×  are shown in Fig. 4(b). To fully 
analyze and verify the relationship of the template image size 
to minS  and min max/S N , eight materials are tested. Fig. 5(a) 
and Fig. 5(b) show the relationship of minS  and min max/S N  
to Template Image Size, respectively. 
As shown in Fig. 6, the proposed demonstration system 
consists of a test box with a laser mouse device and a 
Speckle Real-time Image Processing program inside the 
personal computer. The program uses the frame grabber card 
to capture the speckle images in real-time from the laser 
mouse device and the frame rate is 500 FPS (frame per 
second).  
 
Fig. 6. The demonstration system to locate speckle images in real 
time 
The main idea is to use a real mouse and cover the 
bottom surface entirely with a flat aluminum board. Then the 
laser mouse prototype is placed upside down under the 
bottom of a wood box and only a small hole at the box center 
is left for the laser light to go through. This is to simulate the 
same function using the X-Y table mounted with the laser 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/18
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 雷射光斑影像之分析與定位及其應用之研究 (II)
計畫主持人: 黃炳森
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-130-008- 學門領域: 訊號處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
