 2
Mechanics Comparison of Various Designs of Implant-supported Mandibular Restoration 
Chwei-Goong TSENG *, and Kan-Shan SHIH ** 
* Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology 
No. 43, Section 4, Keelung Road, Taipei 106, Taiwan, ROC 
** Department of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, National Defense Medical Center 
No. 161, Section 6, Min-Chuan East Road, Taipei 114, Taiwan, ROC 
 
 
Abstract 
The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of various 
designs of implants’ placement on stress distribution in bone around 
the implants supporting one-unit fixed complete dentures. A computer 
tomography image was redrawn to reconstruct a digital 
three-dimensional solid model of a mandible including the cortical 
bone and cancellous bone. Moreover, the reverse engineering method 
and computer-aided design were employed to construct a digital 
three-dimensional solid model of fixed complete dentures as well as 
implant and abutment. All of the digital three-dimensional solid 
models were combined and transformed to the FE models, and they 
were classified into 7 configurations according to the number and 
location of the implants. The MSC/Patran software was used to 
develop the FE mesh comprising of 1101954 elements with 252693 
nodes. The MSC/Nastran software was utilized as pre and 
post-processor for all mathematical calculations necessary to evaluate 
dental and mandibular biomechanics. One set of multiple vertical 
loads was used to simulate the possibility of occlusion status. And the 
von Mises stress values in the cortical bone, cancellous bone and 
implants were evaluated. The simulated results indicated that the 
stress distributions for FE models were largely affected by the 
number and location of implants. In the bone, similar to the 
single-tooth case, the von Mises stresses were all concentrated toward 
the cortical bone around the collar of the implants for FE models. By 
increasing the thickness of each connector of complete dentures, the 
stress distribution for cortical bone around implants could be 
decreased. 
 
Key words: Implant-supported, Reverse Engineering, Computer-aided Design, 
Finite Element Analysis, Computer Tomography, Fixed Complete 
Dentures, Von Mises Stress, Cortical Bone, Cancellous Bone, 
Mandibular Restoration 
1. Introduction 
Since osseo-integrated implants were introduced for the rehabilitation of the complete and partial 
parallel to the occlusal surface. After that, the spatial coordinates were transformed to the apex and the blended 
function of CAD software was performed to generate the surface model of tooth. After closing the top and 
bottom surfaces of tooth, the digital 3D solid model of tooth was finished. The same constructive procedures 
were suitable for any tooth. After construction, fourteen pieces of teeth model were cut along the cervical line 
to acquire the 14 crowns. All of the adjacent crowns were rearranged and modeled as connected together by the 
MSC/Patran software (MSC. Software Corporation, USA) and called complete dentures.  
A 1-piece 3.4×13-mm (No.4 of FRIALIT®-2 SYNCHRO systems) tapered-screw body of fixture implant 
with a screw-retained abutment was used (with 15.4 mm of combined length, and 13 mm of which were buried 
into the bone) as the investigated implant system, and RE and CAD (Pro/Engineering 2000i) system were used 
to construct the digital solid models, respectively.  
An image processing system (Adobe Photoshop 7.0.1) was used to obtain the frontal and vertical views of 
cross-sectional images from a patient’s CT images (Fig.1). And the scale bars (within the figure) were used to 
control and verify lift-sized magnification. A self-developed image-processing program was employed to 
delineate each cross-sectional image boundary. This program employed various thresholds of CT number and 
searched for the maximum gradient values of the CT number, which could be used to detect the boundary 
pixels between different materials. A depth-first search algorithm was then used to find the nearest boundary 
pixels to renumber the pixels and reconstruct the contour of each material. After stacking these boundary 
contours, they were then put into MSC/Patran software to generate digital 3D solid models of cortical bone and 
cancellous bone. The height of the mandible in the Y-direction was in the range of 31.3 mm (anterior regions) 
~ 32.1 mm (distal ends); the maximum width in the X-direction was 87 mm; the maximum length in the 
Z-direction was 65.5 mm and the thickness of cortical bone was in the range of 0.91 ~ 1.79 mm. 
 
 
Fig. 1 The frontal and vertical views of 
cross-sectional patterns of a patient’s CT 
images 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The final 3-D graphic models were imported into the MSC/ Patran software using the format of parasolid 
files. This software adopted the self-adapting criterion to build superficial and internal structure meshes by 
using tetrahedral elements with three degrees of freedom per node. Before meshing, the convergence validation 
of element size via the displacement and strain on the top of lingual and labial side of mandible was tested in 
the study. From the results, when the element size was less than 0.55 mm, the displacement and strain would 
be converged. A variety of global edge lengths and element topologies were used to mesh the solid models. 
Specifically, this study set the element size of the surface of complete dentures model to be 0.15 mm, and 0.25 
mm for other regions; the implant model to be 0.15 mm; the abutment to be 0.5 mm; the mandible to be 0.15 
 4
 
 
 
 
Fig.3 Seven configurations of FE models including (a) 14 
implant system, (b)/(c) 8 implant systems, (d)/(e) 6 implant 
systems and (f)/(g) 4 implant systems. (The bones were not 
shown in the figures)
(a) model FEM 1 (b) model FEM 2
(c) model FEM
(d) model FEM 4 (e)
(f) model FEM 6                  (g) model 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4 Material Properties 
   Following the FE model constructions, the material properties of the anatomical structures should be 
decided, and their response to the occlusal simulation was performed with MSC/Nastran software. The 
material properties of cortical bone, cancellous bone, implant, abutment and complete dentures were all 
presumed linear, elastic, homogeneous and isotropic. And the corresponding elastic properties such as Young’s 
modulus (E) and poisson’s ratio (ν) were determined from the literatures(13)(14)(21) and listed in Table 3. 
 
 
Table 3. Elastic properties of each material were 
assigned to the finite element model   
Young's 
Modulus 
(MPa) 
 
 Poisson's  Material 
   Ratio  
 
Titanium  0.35 110,000 (Abutment, Implant)(13)(21)
 
 6
 
 
2.5 Boundary and Loading Conditions  
Cortical Bone(13)(21) 13,700 0.3 
(13)(21) 1,370 Cancellous Bone 0.3 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 The MVMS values (48.9 MPa) in the top of cortical bone around implant 
(at the buccal side of position L5) for model FEM 2 (for example).  
C-C 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 The VMS values of cortical bone in 
model FEM 6 (for example)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MVMS values on the inferior surface of mandible for seven FE models were also presented in Table 4. Based on the results, 
all of the values (1.9 ~ 2.3 MPa) for ISM were much smaller than other regions. One of the examples for ISM is given in Fig. 7. 
Since the reaction stresses on ISM are negligible, such a simple boundary condition could be used in this study. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig. 7 The VMS values of inferior surface of 
mandible for model FEM 2 (for e ample) 
3.2 VMS results in cancellous bone 
 8
 
 
 
Fig. 9 Comparing the stress distributions (VMS) of cortical 
bone at each position between OTC and NTC for model FEM 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Position of left mandible
V
M
S 
va
lu
es
 (M
Pa
)
OTC
NTC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Discussions 
In the present study, a precise 3-D model for mandibular bone and complete dentures were formed. A precise geometry 
reconstruction was essential for estimating the effects in the bone around implants, especially considering the magnitude of the 
defects assumed. Investigations and reports on 3-D complete mandibular bone model are few. It had been reported that more 
successful conclusions could be reached with FE analysis with ideal modeling of the anatomic structure(5,23).  
Based on the results, in the eight-implant systems, the stress distributions of cortical bone for model FEM 2 and FEM 3 at each 
position were all less than 50 MPa (about 2 times to those in model FEM 1). Such VMS values might be acceptable in the normal 
occlusal situations.  
In the six-implant systems, due to no implant in the second molar (L7) position, the MD of model FEM 5 was much larger 
(bending moment effects) than those in model FEM 4 and about 2.4 times (Table 5). So, if performing the surgery of 
implant-supported treatment, one of implants was recommended to embed in the position of distal end of mandible.  
In the four-implant systems, the MVMS values of cortical bone for model FEM 6 and FEM 7 were all generated at the position 
where no implant was in it. When loading at such positions, the loads were transmitted from crowns’ bottom to the top surface of 
cortical bone directly, which shared the loads and generated higher stresses. In model FEM 6, in the position L5, σ1 (the maximum 
principal stress) = 67.2 MPa, and σ3 (the minimum principal stress) = –156 MPa. Such values were near the ultimate strength of 
cortical bone (ultimate tensile strength,σ
 10
t = 100MPa; ultimate compressive strength,σ  = 173MPa)(11)c , and hence the occlusal loads 
should be limited.  
In Table 4, the VMS values generated on the implants were about 2.25 ~ 3.21 times to cortical bone’s and 13.6 ~ 19.6 times to 
cancellous bone’s. In general, when loads were applied and transmitted from the implants to bones, the stresses would be shared by 
the implants, cortical bone and cancellous bone in order; nevertheless, Young’s modulus of implant (Table 3) was larger than those of 
cortical and cancellous bones, which was about 8 and 80 times respectively. So, the implant was not easy to loss. If overload 
occurred, the main stresses would be shared by the cortical bone, which might generate much higher stresses. 
For improving the stress distributions, the increase of the thickness of connectors was tested. In Table 6 and Fig.9, the increased 
amount of connectors’ volumes at position L4_L5, L5_L6, and L6_L7 was all more than 5 mm3. And the decrease rates of stress 
distributions of cortical bone at position L5 and L7 were higher (above 13 %) than those at position L1 and L3. Based on the results, 
it could be predicted that the more the amount of connectors’ thickness increases, the more the stress distributions decrease. 
5. Conclusion 
    The results suggested the following conclusions: 
1. Natural anatomic structures were taken into consideration, and the size of elements was 0.15 mm (150μm) in the evaluation 
area, which allowed more accurate stress prediction and provided more convincing results(22). 
2. The elastic limit of bone around implants might be surpassed, thus produce much larger stress distribution. Since the Young’s 
modulus of cortical bone is higher than cancellous bone, if overload occurred, the cortical bone would generate bone lost first. 
3. With more supporting implants, the treatment may be safer (16). Comparisons among the results of all FE models, the stress 
distributions for FE models were closely related to the number and location of implants. Although the stress distributions of bone 
