摘要：無線定向虛擬的網路骨幹，也就是有向連通支配集（DCDS）， 是一個以
圖學表示無線網路，其中的每個節點都具有一個不同的傳輸範圍和配備了一個定
向天線，的子圖。考慮到 DCDS 的應用，DCDS 的大小 DCDS 建設的成本需要被最
小化。雖然有許多已經提出的協定可以用來取得近似最小的 CDS，但是只有一個
DCDS 的協定存在，能應用於這樣一個特殊的硬件設定。在這份報告中，我們提
出了基於定時器的 DCDS 協定（TB-DCDS），它在一個定向天線的無線網絡中創建
了一個小型的 DCDS。我們所提出的 TB-DCDS 協定，與 IEEE 802.11 的標準相容，
並且證明了，該協定能成功地在有向天線的無線網絡中創建一個 DCDS。模擬結
果表明，我們所提出的協定不僅能夠以較低的連結開銷創建一個小型的 DCDS，
且具有可擴展性和高效節能性。 
 
簡介：在無線網絡中的虛擬骨幹網簡化許多網絡原本的設計進而改進的性能，如
路由和廣播。虛擬骨幹網，一個連通的 ad hoc 網絡，以圖學的觀點，可視為一
個典型的連通支配集（CDS）。該 CDS 被定義為，在網絡中的節點的一個子集，使
得每一個節點可以是在集合中，且在集合中有一個直接的鄰居，其誘導圖
（Induced Graph）是連通的。 
 
許多 CDS 協定已經被提出來實現不同的設計目標。最一般的 CDS 的問題是計算
出最小的 CDS，強調散佈地構建各個小的 CDS。為了解決以下 ad hoc 網絡的特殊
限制，例如：每一個節點能量有限，和鏈結節點故障的可能性較高。高效節能
CDS 協定和容錯 K-CDS 協定，也已經被提出。 
 
在上述所有的 CDS 協定中，是假定節點配備一個全向天線，其輻射地向所有方向
發射信號，因此能理想的表示信號輻射範圍的圖案是一個圓圈。其結果是，所有
的鏈接是雙向的。但是，隨著波束形成(beamforming technology)技術的發展，
使得向天線的尺寸和價格大幅度下降。定向天線在無線中，藉由定向的發送和接
收訊號，是能夠有效地減少能源的消耗和無線電的干擾。通常情況下，定向天線
模型中，一個節點的傳輸區段會分割為 K個扇區，一般 K的大小是 4或 6。要傳
送或接收信號，只能在相應的扇區時執行。當扇區不被使用時的可以關閉，以節
省能量。 
 
 定向天線在無線網絡中的帶來虛擬骨幹建設的一個新的研究挑戰：如何在無
線網路中運用定向天線建立一個最小的 CDS，此研究被稱為為定向 CDS（DCDS）
問題，由 Yang 等人所建構的。DCDS 被定義為節點的子集（稱為 dominators）和
有向邊（稱為 dominating edges）的強連通圖。其中每個節點可以是一個
dominator 或至少有一個有向的 dominator 鄰居且 dominator 點和 dominating 
edge 強連通。圖 1為一個例子，在定向天線之下無線網路的快照。 
Abstract：  
Referred to as the directed virtual backbone, a directed connected dominating set 
(DCDS) is a subgraph of the graph representation of wireless networks in which each 
node has a different transmission range and is equipped with a directional antenna. 
Considering the applications of DCDS, the size of the DCDS and the overhead for 
DCDS construction should be minimized. While a number of protocols to 
approximate the minimum CDS have been proposed, only one DCDS protocol exists 
which works in such a special hardware setting.  in this report, we propose the 
Timer-Based Directed CDS protocol (TB- DCDS), which creates a small DCDS for 
wireless networks with directional antennas. We show that our TB-DCDS protocol is 
compatible with the IEEE 802.11 standard and prove the proposed protocol to 
successfully create a DCDS for wireless networks with such antennas. The simulation 
results show that our proposed protocol is not only capable of creating a small DCDS 
with low communication overhead, but also scalable and energy-efficient. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The virtual backbone in wireless networks simplifies the design and improves 
the performance of many network primitives, such as routing [1] and broadcast [2]. A 
virtual backbone is typically the connected dominating set (CDS) [3] for the graph 
view of a connected ad hoc network. The CDS is defined as a subset of nodes in the 
network such that each node is either in the set or has a direct neighbor in the set, and 
the induced graph of the set is connected. 
A number of CDS protocols have been proposed to achieve different design 
goals. The most general CDS problem is to calculate the minimum CDS [4]–[8], 
which emphasizes on constructing a small CDS distributively. To address the special 
limitations of ad hoc networks, such as limited energy at each node and higher 
possibility of link failure, the energy efficient CDS protocol [9] and fault-tolerant 
k-CDS protocol [10], [11] have also been proposed. 
In all of these aforementioned CDS protocols, nodes are assumed to equip with 
an omnidirectional antenna, which radiates signals to all directions and thus the 
radiation pattern is an ideal circle. As a result, all links are bi-directional. However, 
the recent development of the beamforming technology has driven the price and size 
of the directional antenna to dropped considerably. By limiting the transmission and 
reception to and from specific directions, the directional antenna in wireless networks 
is able to reduce both energy consumption and radio interference [12]. Typically, the 
directional antenna model divides the transmission area of a node into K sectors, 
where K is either 4 or 6. To transmit or receive signals, only the corresponding sectors 
need to be switched-on. The sectors not being used can be turned off to conserve 
energy.  
The uses of directional antenna in wireless networks bring a new research 
challenge for virtual backbone construction: How to create a minimum CDS in 
wireless networks with directional antennas? This research is referred to as the 
directed CDS (DCDS) problem, which is pioneered by Yang et al. [13]. The DCDS is 
defined as the subset of nodes (called dominators) and directed edges (called 
dominating edges) of a strongly connected graph, in which each node is either a 
dominator or has at least a direct neighbor as the dominator and the dominator nodes 
are strongly connected through the dominating edge. As an example, Figure 1 is a 
snapshot of a wireless network with directional antennas. In Figure 1, there are 5 
nodes and 10 directed edges. Each circle represents a node and each dotted arrow 
represents a directed link. Note that the transmission area of a node is divided into 4 
version [5] and Multi- Initiator version [6], [7], start from a set of nodes called 
initiators and grow a dominator tree from each initiator. The literature [7] shows that 
timer-based protocols create a small CDS and incur less control overhead. 
Nevertheless, if applied directly to the DCDS problem, the timer-based protocols do 
not guarantee the construction of a DCDS, since dominator trees are created under the 
assumption of the bi-directional link model. k-coverage protocol [8] obtains a CDS by 
elimi- nating unnecessary nodes from the CDS, and can be applied to arbitrary graphs. 
However, the study [13] shows that k-coverage protocol results in poor performance 
in constructing a dominating set with directional antennas. 
 
B. The Directed CDS Protocol 
A directed CDS (DCDS) problem in wireless networks with directional antennas 
is introduced by Yang et al. [13]. In [13], Yang et al. proposed a pruning-based 
algorithm, named Edge Coverage Condition (ECC). Yang’s DCDS construction 
consists of two phases. In the first phase, the node coverage condition (NCC) 
algorithm [16] is applied to eliminate un- necessary nodes from a dominating set. To 
be specific, a node is removed if there exists a replacement path between any pair of 
its neighbors. In the second phase, ECC is used to remove unnecessary edges. An 
edge is removed if there exists a replacement path between two ends of the edge. 
Node ids are used to avoid simultaneous node/edge removal. In addition, Sector 
Optimization (SO) and Topology Control (TC) are introduced in [13]. SO minimizes 
the number of switched-on sectors by adjusting the alignment of the sectors, and TC 
decreases the energy consumption by adjusting the transmission range. 
 
III. TIMER-BASED DIRECTED CDS CONSTRUCTION 
In this section, we provide the motivation of this research and explain the 
TB-DCDS protocol in detail after introducing the definition of notations and 
assumptions. An example is provided for a better understanding of the proposed 
protocol. Then we prove the correctness of the protocol and discuss the 
implementation consideration. 
 
A. Motivation 
As discussed in Section II, most of CDS protocols do not work for arbitrary 
wireless networks with directional antennas. The k-coverage CDS protocol [8] is able 
to create DCDS, but results in poor performance [13]. Hence, Yang’s protocol [13] is 
the only candidate for the virtual backbone construction in arbitrary wireless networks 
with directional antennas. How- ever, Yang’s protocol has several drawbacks. First, it 
creates a large DCDS, as it is a pruning-based approach. Second, it requires more than 
one-hop neighboring information, which introduces heavy communication overhead. 
Third, each node has to include its neighbor list into the control message, which is not 
compatible with the IEEE 802.11 standard [15]. 
To tackle these issues, we propose Timer-Based DCDS Construction protocol 
(TB-DCDS). The idea of the proposed protocol is based on a greedy strategy, in 
which nodes with more uncovered neighbors will have more opportunity to be 
included in the DCDS. The state of a node is controlled by the countdown timers, 
hence the name timer-based. Our TB-DCDS protocol is designed with the following 
goals. Firstly, the protocol should create a small size of DCDS. Second, to reduce the 
communication overhead, the protocol is only allowed to use one-hop neighboring 
sector when the corresponding beam is switched on [12]. Here, we extend the 
standard IEEE 802.11 beacon frame by adding type, color, DSin (dominator id for an 
incoming edge), DSout (dominator id for an outgoing edge), and wt fields. The type 
field is used to distinguish a special kind of beacon, called request DS, and its purpose 
will be explained soon after. The color field is used to track the heartbeat of the 
initiator [5]. We denote the set of incoming neighbors as Nin and the set of outgoing 
neighbors as Nout . For example, in Figure 1, Nin (1) = {2, 3} and Nout (1) = {2, 5}. 
The wt field stands for the priority of a node, which is the number of neighbors whose 
DSin is the initial value, i.e., DSin = −1. In other words, wt is the number of neighbors 
not yet covered by a dominator. 
After the initiator election is completed, the initiator sets its DSout and DSin to be 
its own id. On receiving beacons, the outgoing neighbors of the initiator set Td = 
Tmax . When the Td of a node expires, if the node finds that its wt is the highest 
among its neighbors whose DSin are the same as the node and it has at least one 
neighbor whose DSin is -1 (uncovered), it switches to doinator state. Otherwise, it 
switches to domiatee state. By repeating this process, each node will eventually set its 
DSin value appropriately and establish its downward edges. In other words, each node 
can now be reached from the initiator through a number of dominator nodes. However, 
it is not guaranteed that the initiator is reachable from other nodes. Thus, upward links 
need to be established. 
After a node, say node 1, changes its state into dominator or dominatee, if it has 
some neighbors with DSout to be -1, it sets its DSout to be the id of one of those 
neighbors, say node 2. If node 2 is a dominatee, it switches to dominator state. This 
can be done by the exchange of beacons, called requestDS, as the beacon sent by node 
1 has DSout = 2. By doing this, each nodes in the tree set its DSout appropriately, and 
each node can now reach the initiator through a number of dominator nodes. The 
dominating edges will be (i, DSin (i)) and (DSout (i), i) of all dominator nodes i and (i, 
DSin (i)) of all dominatee node i. The set of dominator nodes and dominating edges 
constitutes a directed CDS. 
 
C. Example of TB-DCDS 
Figure 3 to 6 illustrates how a DCDS is constructed by TB- DCDS on the network 
topology in Figure 1. In these figures, a red solid arrow represents a downward link 
from the initiator to a leaf, and a blue solid arrow represents a upward link from a leaf 
to the initiator. In Figure 1, node 1 has the smallest ID among all nodes, so it is 
eventually elected as the initiator. On receiving beacons from node 1, node 2 and 5 
are covered and they set their DSin to the id of node 1. Node 2 switches its state to 
dominator since it has an uncovered neighbor node 4. According to our protocol, node 
2 does not set DSout until all neighbors have DSin . On the other hand, node 5 does not 
have uncovered neighbors, so it switches to dominatee state. Node 5 does not have a 
directed edge to node 1 and its only outgoing neighbor is node 2, so node 5 sets DSout 
to node 2. This is shown in Figure 3. On receiving beacons from node 2, node 4 
becomes a dominator, since node 3 does not have any incoming neighbor. After the 
neighbors of node 2 set their DSin , nodes 2 sets DSout to node 1, which is illustrated 
in Figure 4. This process continues until all nodes find DSin and DSout . Figure 5 
demonstrates the constructed DCDS, which contains 3 dominator nodes node 1, 2, 
and 4, and 8 dominating edges. Figure 6 shows that there are 4 switched-on sectors. 
Note that according to [13] only the outgoing edges from a dominator node need to be 
switched-on at all time. 
        
 
D. Correctness of TB-DCDS 
It has been shown in [5] that the initiator election phase successfully elects a 
unique initiator providing the first phase is sufficiently long. Therefore, to prove the 
correctness of TB- DCDS, we only need to show that the proposed tree construction 
phase successfully constructs a directed dominator tree. 
 
Lemma 1 Each node in the network ends up switching to either dominator or 
dominatee state at the end of the tree construction phase. 
 
Proof: The proof is by contradiction. We assume that there is an uncovered node, 
say node i, and DSin (i) still equals to the initial value −1. According to the protocol, 
the neighbor of node i with the highest priority wt will switch to dominator (A tie can 
be broken by id), and the uncovered node will switch to either dominator or 
dominatee state depending on whether it has any uncovered neighbor. This indicates 
at least one node changes its state within each Tmax period, and eventually all nodes 
changes their state to either dominator or dominatee. Therefore, it is impossible that 
there exists any uncovered node at the end of the tree construction phase, and the 
above claim is true. 
Theorem 2 The proposed tree construction protocol success- fully constructs a 
directed dominator tree. 
 
Proof: Lemma 1 implies that the all nodes in the tree can be reached from the 
initiator through a number of dominator nodes. Thus, we need to show that a leaf 
node of the tree can reach its initiator through a number of dominator nodes. 
According to the protocol, if a node, say node i, has its incoming dominator in its 
incoming neighbor list, i.e., DSin (i) ∈ Nin (i), it sets DSout (i) ← DSin (i). This 
indicates that node i can reach any nodes in the tree. If DSin (i) not in Nin (i), it will 
find a neighbor which has an outgoing dominator. Node i can always find such a node, 
because at least one node, say node j, has a link to the initiator, if the original network 
is strongly connected. Hence, neighbors of the node j, i.e., Nin (j), as well as node i 
can find an outgoing dominator. Therefore, all nodes can reach their initiator through 
some dominator nodes at the end of the proposed tree construction phase, and any pair 
of two nodes is connected via some dominator nodes. This concludes the proof. 
 
E. Implementation Considerations 
To implement TB-DCDS in IEEE802.11 networks with directional antennas, a 
proportion to the network density, as each node in a dominating set has to cover more 
nodes. TB-DCDS consistently introduces fewer number of forwarding edges than 
ECC. By considering results of Figure 8 and 9, TB-DCDS is more efficient than ECC 
in term of the size of DCDS. 
 
Figure 10 demonstrates the average traffic with respect to the network density. 
Clearly, TB-DCDS incurs much smaller amount of traffic than ECC, especially when 
the network density is high. This is because ECC uses two-hop localized information 
and each node encodes its neighboring list into control messages. On the contrary, 
TB-DCDS uses one-hop information and thus the communication overhead is 
indepen- dent from the network density. 
 
Figure 11 depicts the number of switched-on sectors with respect to the network 
density. As shown in this figure, TB- DCDS requires lower number of switched-on 
sectors com- pared with ECC regardless K = 4 or K = 6. This suggests that TB-DCDS 
is more energy efficient than ECC. 
 
Figure 12 presents the convergence time with respect to the network density. As 
shown in the figure, TB-DCDS calculates DCDS slower than ECC. It is because 
TB-DCDS creates a directed dominator tree starting from the initiator, and each 
dominator node waits Tmax periods to proceed. This is the only disadvantage of 
TB-DCDS over ECC in our simulation results. 
 
V. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK 
The directed CDS is a good candidate for the virtual back- bone in wireless 
networks with directional antennas. Similar to the minimum CDS construction 
problem, it is preferred that the DCDS protocol creates a small size of DCDS and 
incurs less communication overhead.  in this report, we propose the Timer-Based 
Directed CDS (TB-DCDS) protocol and prove the correctness of the proposed 
protocol. The simulation results show that TB-DCDS outperforms the existing DCDS 
protocol in term of the size of DCDS, the communication overhead, and the number 
of switched-on sectors. 
The issue of the proposed TB-DCDS protocol is the single point of failure, i.e., 
the whole DCDS needs to be reconstructed should the initiator fail. Hence, we would 
like to investigate multiple initiator version of TB-DCDS, where each initiator grows 
its own dominator tree. In this way, the failure of an initiator affects only the 
corresponding dominator tree, and the other parts of the network is not affected. 
However, when the dominator trees are connected, we need to guarantee that the 
resulting component be strongly connected or we will not be able to create a DCDS. 
Therefore, a totally different approach from multi-initiator CDS protocols in [6], [7] is 
required to construct a DCDS with multiple initiators. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] J. Wu, “Extended Dominating-Set-Based Routing in Ad Hoc Wireless Networks 
with Unidirectional Links,” IEEE Transaction on Parallel Distributed Systems, vol. 
13, no. 9, pp. 866–881, 2002. 
[2] J. Cartigny, D. Simplot, and I. Stojmenovic, “Localized Minimum- Energy 
Broadcasting in Ad-hoc Networks,” in Proceedings IEEE Con- ference on 
Computer Communications (INFOCOM), Mar. 2003, pp.2210–2217. 
[3] J. Blum, M. Ding, A. Thaeler, and X. Cheng, “Connected Dominating Set in 
表 Y04 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議於 2009 年 11 月 30 日至 2009 年 12 月 4 日在美國夏威夷舉行，本人於 11
月 29 日傍晚到達當地。在會期中，除出席會議外，亦積極參與主辦單位所舉辦之教程
(tutorial)活動。在會議結束後，於 12 月 5 日一早搭乘班機離開夏威夷返回台灣。 
 
二、與會心得 
在本次會議中除了有兩個 technical sessions 是專門探討車載網路外，在其他的
technical sessions 中(如:multiple access、mobile ad hoc networks，和 routing in 
ad hoc networks)，也可看到來自世界各國知名學者所發表與車載網路相關的論文。透
過在會議中面對面的討論，對本人的研究多有助益。 
此外，資訊安全(network security)也是車載網路中未來重要的課題之一。本人在
12 月 4 號下午參加由 Dr. Radia Perlman 與 Dr. Charlie Kaufman 所主持的 T18: 
Principle of Network Security Protocols (註:此兩位學者所著作之 ”Network 
Security：Privacy Communication in a Public World”，在網路資安領域是相當經典
的著作)，對本人在網路資訊安全的了解也有很大的幫助。   
     
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
無。 
 
四、建議 
在此頂尖的國際會議中，會場上只見少數來自台灣或台裔的學者及研究生，在人數
上遠少於來自中國的研究學者，期望國內的教育當局能在政策面上加以鼓勵並提高補
助，以增加台灣在學術研究上的重要性。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文集及 tutorial 投影片隨身碟各一 
 
六、其他 
無。 
 
 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：孫敏德 計畫編號：98-2221-E-008-045-MY3 
計畫名稱：新世代智慧型車載網路的數位樂活媒體研究實現--子計畫二:車輛網路虛擬骨幹的建構與維
持 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
