人工智慧輔助產品色彩計畫系統建立之研究(I) 
The Construction of an Artificial Intelligence Aided Product-Color Planning System (I) 
 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-343-001 
已執行期間：94年 8月 1日至 95年 7月 31日 
主持人：蔡宏政  南華大學應用藝術與設計學系 助理教授 
共同主持人：洪嘉永  國立成功大學工業設計學系 副教授 
 
1. 中文摘要 
電腦輔助設計系統在產品概念設計與
色彩計畫上扮演著重要的角色。現今以電
腦輔助產品色彩的表色方式主要以CIE色
彩系統為主。本研究以 CIE色彩之三個主
色光，紅(R)、綠(G)、藍(B)為基礎，運用
色彩調和理論與灰色理論發展出一套可量
化的產品色彩美度計算及意象語彙評價的
方法。此外，亦可依據設計師所需求的產
品目標意象，在良好的色彩美度水準下，
以基因演算法進行最佳產品色彩組配的反
向搜尋。因此，本研究所架構之自動化設
計系統，將可以協助設計師快速模擬產品
色彩組配並評價其整體色彩意象值，同時
亦可進行目標意象之理想色彩組配搜尋。 
 
關鍵詞：產品色彩設計、最佳化設計、遺
傳基因演算法、人工智慧 
 
1. Abstract 
CAD systems play an essential role in 
product concept design and color planning. 
The representations produced in 
computer-based color simulations are 
generated mainly using the CIE color system. 
Accordingly, this study uses color harmony 
theory and gray theory to develop a 
quantitative aesthetic measurement and 
linguistic evaluation method based on the 
primary colors, i.e. R (Red), G (green), B 
(Blue), for the CIE color planning stage of 
product design. In an inverse process, 
genetic algorithms are applied to search for 
a near-optimal color combination which 
satisfies the designer’s required 
product-color linguistic image on a qualified 
aesthetic level. The automatic design system 
proposed in this study enables designers to 
rapidly simulate the designed colors of a 
product and then obtain its corresponding 
image evaluation, or to search for the ideal 
color combination which generates the 
required image perception. 
 
Keywords: Product color design, Optimum 
design, Genetic algorithms, Artificial 
intelligence 
 
2. Objectives and introduction 
Due to the remarkable advances in 
numerically–controlled machining 
technology in recent decades, the functional 
aspects of many of the consumptive 
products used in our daily lives are now 
fully matured. Subsequently, for enterprises 
seeking to develop new products in today’s 
highly competitive marketplace, the 
apparent style of a product, i.e. its form and 
color, is of paramount importance. 
Designing and manufacturing the wide 
variety of product forms required to meet 
the diverse requirements of individual 
consumers is both time consuming and 
expensive. However, by varying the color 
combinations of the external components of 
a product, an enterprise can generate a wide 
variety of different product image 
perceptions. Adopting this approach, a 
product produced from a single mold can be 
offered in numerous color combinations so 
as to satisfy the diverse preferences of 
individual consumers [1]. 
Color plays an important role in 
determining the appeal of a product to its 
potential customers [2]. In an earlier study 
relating to a door lock design [3], the current 
author reported that the overall product 
image perception was dominated by the 
product color rather than the product form. 
Traditional products offered with a standard 
 1
these solutions at the conceptual design 
stage. In most cases, a near-optimal solution 
represents the best solution which can 
reasonably be hoped for. However, in the 
current application, by carefully defining the 
color evaluation algorithms employed by the 
genetic algorithm, the designer can increase 
the likelihood of the final solution closely 
approximating the optimal solution. 
The automatic design system developed 
in this study is illustrated using the color 
design of a thermos flask as an example. The 
proposed system comprises two sub-systems, 
namely an image prediction sub-system and 
a color-combination search sub-system. In 
the proposed approach, color parameters are 
either input to the image prediction 
sub-system or output from the 
color-combination search sub-system. 
Meanwhile, the predicted/desired image 
evaluation is output from the image 
prediction sub-system and input to the 
color-combination search sub-system. Using 
the proposed design system, the designer is 
able not only to determine the likely 
consumer reaction to any color scheme 
proposed for a product, but can also search 
for an ideal (near-optimal) 
color-combination which will likely satisfy 
the desired product-color perception. The 
customized interfaces of the proposed 
system are integrated with the I-DEAS 
system to enable the designer to view 3-D 
colored models rendered with the assigned 
input color parameters or to search for 
suitable color schemes which satisfy a 
particular set of image evaluation targets. 
 
3. Linguistic and aesthetic image-based 
genetic searching 
This study integrates the aesthetic 
measurement method, gray theory and 
genetic algorithms to develop a 
computer-aided automatic product color 
image prediction and color-combination 
search system. The proposed system 
comprises two fundamental mechanisms, 
namely: (1) a linguistic and aesthetic color 
image prediction function based on gray 
theory and Moon and Spencers’ aesthetic 
measurement method, respectively, and (2) a 
search function for optimal two-color 
combinations based on genetic algorithms. 
The basic concepts of these two functions, 
and the interrelationships between them, are 
illustrated in Fig. 1. The linguistic and 
aesthetic image prediction function enables 
the likely consumer reaction to a product 
color image to be predicted for any given set 
of input color parameter values. Meanwhile, 
the color combination search function 
performs essentially the inverse operation, 
i.e. given a set of image perception 
requirements, this function searches 
automatically for the near-optimal color 
combination which satisfies these 
requirements. Gray theory is employed to 
establish the relationship between the 
linguistic image evaluation and the color 
parameters, and the aesthetic measurement 
method is applied to evaluate the aesthetic 
degree of the color combination in terms of 
its color harmony. During the search 
procedure, genetic algorithms are used to 
perform an evolutional search for elite color 
combinations, with the suitability (fitness) of 
each candidate solution being evaluated by 
the linguistic and aesthetic image prediction 
function. 
 
Fig. 1. Basic concepts of automated image 
prediction and color search mechanism 
 
4. Implementation procedures 
This study verified the effectiveness of 
the automatic color design system outlined 
in Section 2 by considering the case of the 
color design of a thermos flask. The detailed 
 3
(feminine–masculine) of 0.2, a linguistic 
weight of 0.5, an aesthetic weight of 0.5, and 
100 iterations in the search routine. Note 
that the latter setting implies that the 
optimization system will execute the fitness 
function evaluation process 1000 times since 
the population size is set by default to 10. 
Fig. 6 shows the trends of the fitness of 
the candidate solutions over the evolution of 
the search process and indicates the 
corresponding variations of the linguistic 
and aesthetic evaluations. It can be seen that 
as the generation number increases, the 
linguistic and aesthetic evaluations vary 
irregularly in order to maximize the fitness 
value, i.e. to obtain a color combination 
which increasingly fits the goal image. Fig. 
7 indicates the best-fitted color 
combinations at the 1st, 20th, 40th, 60th, 
80th and 100th generations, respectively. 
The final search results are presented in the 
window shown in Fig. 8. As shown, the 
window indicates both the actual and the 
target linguistic and aesthetic evaluation 
ratings, the RGB parameters for the two 
best-fitted colors, and the overall fitness of 
the final two-color design. Clicking, the 
“3-D Color Simulation”, the designer is 
presented with a 3-D image of the flask 
rendered in the best-fitted color 
combination. 
 
Fig. 5. Interface for product color 
combination search 
 
Fig. 6. Trends of fitness function and image 
evaluation ratings during search process 
 
 
(a)           (b)            (c) 
Fig. 7.Color evolution: best-fitted color 
combinations at: (a) initial, (b) 20th, (c) 40th, 
(d) 60th, (e) 80th and (f) 100th generation 
(d)           (e)            (f)
 
 
Fig. 8. Search-result window presenting 
evolved color variables of best-fitted colors 
and corresponding image data 
 
5. Conclusion 
In the conceptual product design stage, 
designers tend to carry out their 
 5
[11] Moon P, Spencer D.E. Geometric 
formulation of classical color harmony. 
Journal of the Optical Society of 
America 1944;34(1):46-59. 
[12] Moon P, Spencer D.E. Area in color 
harmony, Journal of the Optical Society 
of America 1944;34(2):93-103. 
[13] Goldberg D.E. Genetic algorithms in 
searching, optimization and machine 
learning. Massachusetts: Addison- 
Wesley, 1989. 
 
7. 成果自評 
(1) 建立可正向評價色彩意象，亦可逆向
搜尋最佳化之雙色產品色彩組配系
統，研究成果符合原計畫第一年之預
期目標。 
(2) 具色彩配色需求之消費性產品可適用
之。 
(3) 研究成果已投稿至設計相關之 SCI 期
刊。 
 
 7
推廣及運用的價值
 
1. 優良的產品色彩配色，可增加消費者對產品的滿意度，強化
產品的競爭力。 
2. 一般消費型產品均可適用。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. IASTED ASM 2006 CD 一份。 
2. IASTED ASM 2006 大會議程一份。 
3. 參與發表證書與註冊費收據各乙份。 
 
 
表 Y04 
then fuzzy synthetic distance is introduced to search the 
optimal combination. Based on the proposed method, a 
consultative computer program is then constructed. With 
the program created in this research, the consumer will be 
able to customize the product and quickly obtain the 
suggested combination of alternatives that fits his/her 
requirements by selecting the required linguistic terms in 
the interface. 
 
 
2.  Implementation Methods 
 
Based on the proposed method in this article, the 
customer needs can be transferred into feasible alternative 
combinations of the desired product. The block diagram 
for this evaluation model is shown in Fig. 1 and the 
implementation procedures used in this study includes the 
following steps: 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7) 
(8)
 Establish the algorithms for ranking customer needs 
by their importance using the technique of analytic 
hierarchy process (AHP). 
 Set up the fuzzy inference rules between customer 
needs and product features. 
 Establish the algorithms for evaluating requirement 
of each product feature according to individual 
customer needs and the fuzzy inference rule. 
 Establish the algorithms to evaluate the alternatives 
and search for the optimal combination using fuzzy 
geometrical distance and fuzzy synthetic distance 
methods. 
 Decide on the product to be used as an example for a 
case study. 
 Investigate the customer needs and possible product 
alternatives; design the questionnaires for obtaining 
the relationships between customer needs and 
features. 
Construct a consultative interface for auto-searching 
the optimal alternatives, based on the proposed 
algorithms and the associated product data. 
 Generate the assembled 3-D models with the 
suggested feasible combinations, based on the 
intensity of customer needs obtained through the 
operation interface. 
 
Fig. 1. A block diagram of the alternative evaluation 
model 
3.  Case Study for Stroller Customization 
 
A baby stroller is taken as the objective product to 
demonstrate the effectiveness of the evaluation method. 
The linguistic variables on defined customer needs are 
considered as the input for this evaluation system. The 
customer needs were acquired from informal survey of 
customers. As for the case of a baby stroller, six customer 
needs were identified by three baby stroller specialists, 
referred to as research consultants in this research. Six 
identified customer needs are listed in Table 1. 
 
To analyze the product features of a stroller, many 
types of the existing products were compared. The 
different products where analyzed to determine the more 
important features and these where laid out into a 
hierarchy structure (Table 2). In this structure, ten features 
with alternatives are included and identified by the 
research consultants. 
 
Table 1. List of customer needs 
No. Customer needs 
N1 Baby seat comfort 
N2 Aesthetics 
N3 Compactness after folding 
N4 Ease of use 
N5 Entertainment for babies 
N6 Low price 
                   
 
Table 2. Product features and associated alternatives 
No. Product features Alternatives 
A11 One-hand operation + joint pull
A12 Hook pull+ joint pull F1 Folding operation 
A13 Joint pull 
A21 Included F2 
Self-standing after 
folding A22 Not included 
A31 Included F3 Reversible handle A32 Not included 
A41 Tray + toy bar  
A42 Tray  F4 
Accessories in front 
of seat 
A43 Bumper 
A51 Multi-position  F5 
Seat back 
adjustability A52 Two positions 
A61 Adjustable F6 Footrest A62 Fixed 
A71 Pivoted (6 wheels or 8 wheels)F7 Wheel  A72 Fixed direction (4 wheels) 
A81 Cantilever type F8 Suspension A82 Simple type 
A91 420mm 
A92 400mm F9 Stroller width 
A93 380mm 
A101 Latest style F10 Frame style A102 Earlier style 
 
496
explorer using the VBOI (Visual Basic interface to Open 
I-DEAS) component included in I-DEAS software. A 
multi-functional stroller can be customized by inputting 
linguistic terms into the customer needs interface. Two 
examples to simulate operation procedures are made and 
it is seen how to generate a required stroller based on 
consumer’s needs. 
 
3.1 Example 1 
 
Assume a mother would like to buy a stroller for her baby, 
she has no idea how to choose a multi-function stroller, 
but just understands her personal needs. So the 
customizable system is adopted to develop an ideal 
stroller fitting her needs. This system uses the proposed 
algorithms and then the customized stroller can be 
generated. As shown in Fig. 2, six needs on the 
consultative interface is presented to the consumer, who is 
required to select the corresponding adjective in linguistic 
terms based on personal requirements. According to the 
selected linguistic data in Fig. 2 ( N1-Very High, N2-High, 
N3-Medium Low, N4-Medium High, N5-Low, N6-
Medium), AHP method is used to calculate the weights of 
customer needs. The calculated results of each ideal 
linguistic level (F1-MH, F2- MH, F3-MH, F4-MH, F5-H, 
F6-H, F7-MH, F8-MH, F9-MH, F10-H) are also shown on 
the interface window (Fig. 2). The alternatives with 
smallest distance in each feature are picked out to 
comprise the optimal combination. This combination 
consists of alternatives: A12-A22-A32-A42-A51-A61-A71-A81-
A92-A101. Then the consumer could press the “show 3D 
models” button, and the corresponding components for 
each selected alternative are exported as a well-assembled 
VRML file and dynamically shown to the consumer (Fig. 
3). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. The stroller customization interface for 
example 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. A 3-D VRML model of suggested stroller for 
example 1 
 
 
3.2 Example 2 
 
Assume a dealer would like to order several sets of 
strollers with the same functions. By using this system, he 
picks out suitable linguistic terms, considered as best 
fitting consumers’ requirements. These selected linguistic 
terms are described as: High, Medium High, Low, Very 
High, Very High, and Very Low, for the needs N1-N6, 
respectively. In this case, the original alternative 
combination with smallest geometrical distance consists 
of A11-A21-A31-A41-A51-A61-A71-A81-A92-A101, obtained by 
the program operation. In this combination, these 
alternative couples, A11-A31, A21-A31, are mutually 
exclusive. By comparing fuzzy synthetic distance, the 
program will auto-search the optimal alternative  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. The stroller customization interface for 
example 2 
498
