2 
)
2
1tanh(2
)
2
1tanh(
2
1tanh
)sinh(
)sinh()1()(
θ
θθ
θ
θ
−⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ +
+
⋅−=
s
b
sbsC
 (3) 
式中(θ,b)為 S座標之設定參數，其設定值分別介於 0<θ<20與 0<b<1和之間，當
θ=0，S座標即可轉換成傳統的 sigma座標，並且藉由調整參數 b，可以提高表層
網格的解析度。 
而任何物理變數 G在兩座標系統之微分式如下 
)())(1()()(
s
G
x
z
Hx
G
x
G
s
z
sz ∂
∂
∂
∂−∂
∂=∂
∂
 (4) 
)())(1()()(
s
G
y
z
Hy
G
y
G
s
z
sz ∂
∂
∂
∂−∂
∂=∂
∂
 (5) 
s
GH
s
G
z
s
z
G
z ∂
∂=∂
∂
∂
∂=∂
∂ )()(  (6) 
s
GH z ∂
∂=  (7) 
2.2 邊界條件(OBC)之選擇 
在計算邊界上的自由表面、流速、三維流場時，ROMS模式提供了許多種的
邊界條件(open boundary condition)供人選擇，在模擬不同之情況時，可以選擇不
同的邊界條件，並從中選擇模擬結果較好的邊界條件，以下列出可供選擇之邊界
條件： 
2.2.1 夾擠邊界條件(Clamped boundary condition) 
Clamped boundary condition方程式如下： 
extηη =  (8) 
2.2.2查普曼邊界條件(Chapman boundary condition) 
Chapman B.C.是基於重力波傳播之理論，方程式如下： 
0)( 0 =∂
∂++∂
∂
x
hg
t
ηηη  (9) 
2.2.3 輻射邊界條件(Radiation boundary condition) 
Radiation B.C. 是基於傳輸方程式之理論，方程式如下： 
4 
 
圖 1 案例一溫度場(模擬 15天) 
 
圖 2案例一流場(模擬 15天) 
3.2 海綿層設定 
邊界異常之溫、鹽極端值，初步研判是邊界所給之溫、鹽值在計算至內部區
域時出錯，故在 ROMS模擬計算時，在邊界設置一圈海綿層(Sponge)，邊界所給
之溫、鹽、流在往內部傳導時，在此海綿層中快速混合，藉此改善邊界上出現極
端值之現象，減少因混合不均所產生之誤差，增加模式之穩定性。在增設此海綿
層後，模式邊界出現極端值之現象已有所改善，以下為較為穩定之案例，其海棉
層厚度設定為 50KM，從溫度場(圖 3)可以看到此案例之溫度場較為正常，邊界
上並沒有出現極端值，流場圖(圖 4)中也可看到流經台灣東岸之黑潮成型。 
 
圖 3 案例二溫度場(模擬 15天) 
 
圖 4 案例二流場(模擬 15天) 
在案例二中，海棉層之厚度為 50km，而本研究進一步討論海綿層厚度之影
響，模擬海綿層厚度分別為 10KM(案例三)及 200KM(案例四)作比較。圖 5~圖 7
分別為海綿層厚度 10KM、50KM、200KM 情況下模擬 60 天之海流流向，顯示
海流大小及流向近似，僅有小部份區域不同、即使 3個案例模擬至一年，其結果
還是幾乎相同，上述 3個案例中，雖然海棉層之厚度相差甚大，但計算結果之差
異幾乎可以忽略，因此設定海棉層可以改善邊界之溫鹽混合之問題，但海棉層厚
度的大小並不會影響計算結果的誤差。 
6 
 
圖 10 案例二溫度場(模擬 60天) 
 
圖 11 案例二流場(模擬 60天) 
本研究利用海棉層的設定解決了邊界之溫、鹽極端值，但衍伸出另一個問
題，由流場圖的東邊界可明顯看到海流在流至邊界時流不出邊界，而是沿著東邊
界邊界往回流，進而影響之後之模擬結果，此現象不符合實際物理現象，推測此
問題是海棉層所造成之另一影響，因為在海棉層中加強了溫鹽之混合，海流流至
海棉層時受到混合效果過強之影響，所以海流在邊界反而流不出去。 
3.3 不同邊界條件的設定 
本研究測試不同邊界條件計算之數值方法，探討海流流不出去之現象是否有
所改善。 
將三維流速之邊界條件設為 Radiation，看海流流不出去之情形是否能改善，
水位邊界條件為 Chapman，二維流速邊界條件為 Nuding，如圖 12之案例五。但
在邊界的海流依然流不出去。 
另一案例六設定條件為 2D-Radiation，3D-Nuding，FS-Chapman，如圖 13
之模擬結果。此案例不但海流流不出邊界，連海流流向都與實際情況相差甚遠，
本研究測試不同邊界條件下計算的結果，模擬之結果中比較穩定的為案例二之設
定，其邊界條件如下：2D-Flather，3D-Clamper，FS-Chapman，因其模擬出之溫、
鹽值較穩定，與實測資料也較接近、海流流向及流速也大致相符，故此邊界條件
為較為穩定之組合。後續將嘗試測試海綿層是否有影響混合強度之參數，將混合
強度調弱，期望調整至邊界之溫鹽能順利混合，不會出現極端值之現象，而海流
又能順利流出邊界，之後即可模擬台灣周邊海域，並討論 S座標系統對模擬黑潮
垂直流速特性之影響。 
8 
3. Song, Y. and D. B. Haidvogel, (1994) “A semi-implicit ocean circulation model 
using a generalized topography-following coordinate system,” J. Comp. Phys., 115 
(1), pp. 228-244. 
4. Wu, C. –R., Tang, T. Y., and Lin, S. F. (2005) ” Intra-seasonal variation in the 
velocity field of the northeastern South China Sea,” Continental Shelf Research, 25, 
pp. 2075-2083. 
 2
 
為能讓這次會議的參與能有明確以及豐富的收穫，筆者自我訂定了五項主要的參與目的： 
(一) 發表個人目前在探討台灣海域波浪瞬時非線性現象的研究結果。 
(二) 藉由簡報後的討論時間與相同研究領域的學者切磋與交流嘗試與他們討論。 
(三) 藉由研討會中場休息的機會，積極認識世界各國的專家學者，並藉由與國際上專家學者的交談，
尋求未來可能的國際合作。 
(四) 研討會設有海洋監測儀器與最新技術之展覽會。透過出席展覽會，掌握目前國際間最新海洋監
測技術的發展，並為自身研究領域尋求理想之工具。 
二、與會心得 
筆者於 2010 年 5 月 24 日抵達澳洲雪梨，當天報到之後，持續參與該會議。會議共分三天舉辦之，
筆者於 5 月 27 日進行本身研究內容之簡報。會議參加完當天晚上旋即搭機返台，並於 5 月 28 日抵達
台灣。會議舉辦期間共有數百位的海洋學科領域之學者參加，大會討論之主題共包含了：UNDERWATER 
ACOUSTICS AND ACOUSTICAL OCEANOGRAPHY、SONAR SIGNAL / IMAGE PROCESSING AND 
COMMUNICATION、OCEAN OBSERVING PLATFORMS, SYSTEMS, AND INSTRUMENTATION、
REMOTE SENSING 、 OCEAN DATA VISUALIZATION, MODELING, AND INFORMATION 
MANAGEMENT、MARINE ENVIRONMENT, OCEANOGRAPHY, AND METEOROLOGY、OPTICS, 
IMAGING, VISION, AND E-M SYSTEMS 、 MARINE LAW, POLICY, MANAGEMENT, AND 
EDUCATION、OFFSHORE STRUCTURES AND TECHNOLOGY、OCEAN VEHICLES AND FLOATING 
STRUCTURES 等議題。由於論文眾多，由於與會學者眾多且討論議題甚廣，因此大會安排一次由七個
場次同時進行。筆者之論文發表場次被大會安排於 5 月 27 日早上 10:45~12:30 的 Bayside103 場次，論
文編號為：100113-023，論文發表題目為：Application of the Wavelet Transform and Inverse Wavelet 
Transform to Analyze the Ocean Wave Signals from Data Buoys。筆者報告之場次如圖 2 所示。圖 3 以及
圖 4 為筆者於大會會場以及論文簡報期間之留影。 
 
圖2  研討會議程(框選處為筆者之報告場次) 
 
 4
 
圖5  Oceans＇10所舉辦海洋技術展覽會場 
三、建議 
非常感謝國科會的經費補助，讓筆者此次行程能順利成行並圓滿完成任務。經由此次會議之後，
心得與建議如下： 
1. 筆者次次參加 OCEANS＇10 IEEE Sydney 研討會有遇到幾位來自台灣的碩士班學生，從他們的英語
表達以及臨場的反應可感受到我國學生在國際舞台上表現的明顯進步。在政府近年來積極推動學界
國際交流的努力下，可逐漸看到成果。 
2. 相較於筆者去年在美國所參加的 OCEANS 2009 MTS/IEEE 研討會，OCEANS＇10 IEEE Sydney 的
規模相對較小。雖說會場佈置、交通協助、住宿協助、餐點供應以及會場服務人員引導等，都是國
際等級，但此次 OCEANS＇10 IEEE Sydney 海洋技術展覽的廠商明顯較去年 OCEANS 2009 
MTS/IEEE 研討會少許多，這算是 OCEANS＇10 IEEE Sydney 美中不足之處。 
3. OCEANS＇10 IEEE Sydney 研討會此次所邀請的海洋領域的儀器與技術廠商參展規模雖然較小，但
大會仍試圖將廠商們所繳交的贊助費用轉嫁用來提供給參與研討會的專家學者一些貼心的服務。讓
與會學者除了能透過參觀展覽吸收更多海洋技術新知外，還能獲得更多的研討會資源。舉辦單位深
知大會本身之優勢與可應用之策略，讓參與學者、大會以及展出廠商都蒙受惠，達到三贏的局面。 
4. 筆者早期所參加過的一些研討會僅於休息時間提供茶點，OCEANS＇10 IEEE Sydney 研討會則於會
場中提供了中餐以及晚餐的服務。舉辦單位透過此一方式讓與會學者有更充分的時間留在會場內，
透過用餐的時間進行交流以及討論，有效的增加了學者間意見交流的機會。往年參加國際研討會時
會發現到亞洲的日韓等學者在外語表達上並不算順暢。但此次筆者發現到亞洲學者的外語表達已有
明顯之進展，且演說內容趨於活潑生動，吸引了聆聽者的注意力。我國在積與參與國際活動的同時，
也該持續提升自我的外語能力，作為在國際舞台展現能力的重要基礎。 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
附件 筆者發表論文之全文 
it shifts through the time domain. ),( abWAc  conserves the 
signal norm, thus its total energy: 
 
∫ ∫∫ == 222 dd),(d)( abaabWttAE Acc  (4) 
 
To implement Eq. (1), it is necessary to choose a mother 
wavelet function ψ  first. The Morlet wavelet function, a 
common wavelet function used in many applications, is 
chosen here for detecting wave information from the 
acceleration signal. This study used the Morlet mother wavelet 
function and its function in the Fourier (spectral) space, as 
defined in Eqs. (5) and (6), throughout the implementation 
procedures. 
 
( ) ( )20 5.0expexp)( ttit −⋅= ωψ  (5) 
 
( ) ( )[ ]205.0 5.0exp2)(ˆ ωωπωψ −−⋅= −  (6) 
 
where ψˆ  is the Fourier space of function ψ , it means the 
function in frequency domain. ω  is the frequency. 0ω  was 
introduced before, Buessow (2007) has discussed the value of 
0ω  for the purpose transforming scaling parameter into real 
frequency ω . 
 
The result of Eq. (1) is called as the scalogram by many 
studies, the scalogram is a measure of the energy distribution 
over time shift b  and scaling factor a  of the signal. Based on 
the previous section, we can obtain the wave acceleration 
scalogram ),( abWAc  from the acceleration signals time series 
by the CWT method. However, the spectral information is 
more significant for the applications of oceanography and 
coastal engineering. Ocean wave scalogram describes the 
characteristics of sea surface elevation in the time and 
frequency domains. The techniques to obtain directly the sea 
surface elevation from the sensor inside the data buoys are still 
under development at present.  
 
To obtain the wave scalogram by the buoy, the method 
indirect method to calculate the wave spectrum from the 
acceleration spectrum can be adopted. In most applications of 
the spectral concept it is assumed that sea surface elevation 
can be considered as the linear superposition of a large 
number of long crested wave trains of low amplitude with 
different frequencies all traveling independently of one 
another. The wave spectrum is double integration of the 
acceleration spectrum. Double integration corresponds to 
multiplying the wave spectrum by 41 ω  (Tucker and Pitt, 
2001). 
 
III. VERIFICATIONS 
Ocean waves in nature are often random and irregular rather 
than regular. The algorithm should be developed and 
confirmed by testing with random waves. The current study 
applied in-situ wave records to verify practicability of the 
wavelet algorithm. The sea surface elevation records used here 
were measured by ultrasonic wave gages on the Cigu pile 
station from the Taiwan Strait. The station (Fig. 1) is located 
3km from the coast of Taiwan; the water depth is about 15 m. 
This research collected 1500 data from the Cigu pile station 
and applied the data to verify viability of the wavelet 
algorithm for sea surface elevation calculation. Figure 2 shows 
the wave features of the 1500 wave data records. The wave 
height and wave period conditions of most data are 0.5m~2m 
and 4sec ~6sec. To verify accuracy of sea surface elevation by 
the wavelet algorithm on irregular waves, this study calculates 
the acceleration data by double differential of in-situ sea 
surface elevation records. 
 
Figure3 shows one case of wavelet scalograms of ocean 
waves calculated from the sea surface elevation signals and 
wave acceleration signals. Due to the influence of  the transfer 
function 41 ω , the wavelet scalogram shows obvious energy 
concentrated on the very low frequency band. Wang et al. 
(1993) sees this energy on the very low frequency band as 
noise. The current work uses a filter with a cut off frequency 
of 0.03 Hz to eliminate the low frequency noise (Wang et al., 
1993). The spectral features between Fig.3(a) and Fig.3(b) are 
similar. In addition to the wavelet scalogram, this article also 
discusses the sea surface elevation calculated from the wave 
acceleration by the algorithms of CWT and ICWT. After 
applying the wavelet algorithm, the sea surface elevation of 
irregular wave can be obtained. As Fig. 4 shows, the 
calculated sea surface elevation fits with the in-situ data 
record, except for the marginal parts of the wave record.  
It’s the signal leakage around the marginal areas of the 
wavelet scalogram. The leakage generated by the limited 
length of the basic wavelet function. The amount of leakage 
usually depends on the length of data as well as the 
decomposition results. In reality, because of the finite data 
length, even pure sinusoidal components with different 
frequencies are not exactly orthogonal (Huang et al., 1998). 
After applying this incomplete wavelet function to the wave 
record, the energy distribution is biased. 
 
 
Figure 1. The location of  the in-situ stations. 
 
 
Figure 5. Wave scalogram and sea surface elevation calculation from buoy 
acceleration signals. 
 
 
Figure 6. Wave spectrum analysed from the same data set of Fig. 5. 
 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
Sea surface elevation and ocean wave spectrum are both 
significant in marine science research and ocean engineering. 
The data buoy is a common and popular platform to record 
wave characteristics in any water depth condition. Because 
this platform is often floating on the sea surface, the 
technologies to measure the vertical positions of the sea 
surface by the buoy system are still under development. Most 
of the data buoy systems measure sea surface acceleration 
instead of measuring wave spectrum and sea surface elevation 
directly. Deriving wave spectrum and sea elevation from the 
acceleration signal is possible using the applicable algorithm. 
In case of non-stationarity from the wave signal, this study 
develops a new technique based on the continuous wavelet 
transform and inverse wavelet transform to derive the wave 
scalogram and sea elevation from the acceleration signal. The 
study collects, defines, and explains required theories of 
continuous wavelet transform and inverse wavelet transform. 
 
After discussing case of irregular wave signals, this 
investigation confirms the method for deriving the wave 
scalogram and sea surface elevation from the acceleration 
signal using a new wavelet algorithm. Compare with the wave 
spectrum, the wave scalogram provides the information of 
wave energy density in both time and frequency domain. 
 
To discuss the wave scalogram and sea surface elevation 
calculated from natural acceleration signals, this study 
analyses 1-year acceleration records from buoy accelerometer. 
The wave scalogram presents instant nonlinear features at 
short-time duration. However, wave nonlinearity is not 
obvious from the wave spectra of the whole 512 sec time 
records. The energy from the spectrum at different harmonic 
frequency bins should be averaged in the wave spectrum. This 
is a reason that the energy at the harmonic frequency is not 
obvious in the wave spectrum but clear in the wave scalogram. 
Now we could conclude that the superiority of CWT and 
ICWT on analyzing the instant wave features from the buoy 
acceleration signals. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported by the National Science Council 
(96-2221-E-006-203-MY3) and the Research Center of Ocean 
Environment and Technology of National Cheng Kung 
University. The authors would like to offer the great thanks to 
the agencies. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] D.W. Wang, C.C. Teng, and R. Ladner, “Buoy directional wave 
measurements using magnetic field components,” The Second 
International Symposium on Ocean Wave Measurement and Analysis, 
New Orleans, LA, pp. 316–329, 1993. 
[2] I.R. Young, Wind Generated Ocean Waves, ELSEVIER SCIENCE Ltd, 
Oxford, 1999. 
[3] J.-P. Antoine, R. Murenzi, P. Vandergheynst, and S. Twareque Ali,  
Two-dimensional Wavelets and Their Relatives. Cambridge University 
Press, Cambridge, 2004. 
[4] J.B. Herbich, Handbook of Coastal and Ocean Engineering, Gulf 
Publishing Company, Houston, 1990. 
[5] M.C. Huang, “Time domain simulation of data buoy motion,”  
Proceedings of the National Science Council, Republic of China, Part A: 
Physical Science and Engineering, vol. 22, pp. 820-830, 1998. 
[6] M.C. Huang and J.Y. Chen, “Wave direction analysis from data buoys,” 
Ocean Engineering (Pergamon), vol. 25, pp. 621-637, 1998. 
[7] M.J. Tucker and E.G. Pitt, Waves in Ocean Engineering, ELSEVIER 
SCIENCE Ltd, Oxford,  2001. 
[8] N.E. Huang, Z. Shen, S.R. Long, M.C Wu, H.H. Shih, Q. Zheng, N.C. 
Yen, C.C. Tung, H.H. Liu, “The empirical mode decomposition and the 
Hilbert spectrum for nonlinear and non-stationary time series analysis,” 
Proceedings - Royal Society London, vol. 454, pp. 903–995, 1998. 
[9] R. Buessow, “An algorithm for the continuous morlet wavelet 
transform,”  Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, vol. 21, pp. 
2970-2979, 2007. 
[10] R.G. Dean and R.A. Dalrymple, Water Wave Mechanics for Engineers 
and Scientists. World Scientific Publishing Co. Pte. Ltd, Singapore, 
1991. 
[11] T. Hara and A.V. Karachintsev, “Observation of nonlinear effects in 
ocean surface wave frequency spectra,” Journal of Physical 
Oceanography, vol. 33, pp. 422-430, 2003. 
 
1OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
Application of the Wavelet Transform and 
Inverse Wavelet Transform to Analyze the 
Ocean Wave Signals 
from Data Buoys 
Li-Chung WU
National Cheng Kung University
Taiwan (R.O.C.)
OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
Tracks of typhoons which 
approaching Taiwan from 1997 
to 2006
Typhoon events
Number of typhoon events
OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
Typhoon Disaster
OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
Global Ocean Observation
OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
Marine Environment Monitoring
3OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
Probability of different wave steepnesses from the data of all wave 
profiles and only the data of the instant nonlinear wave profiles. 
OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
The probabilities of instant nonlinear waves in different seasons 
OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
Summary1
 This study analyses 1-year acceleration records from buoy 
accelerometer. The wave scalogram presents instant nonlinear 
features at short-time duration. 
 Wave nonlinearity is not obvious from the wave spectra of the 
whole 512 sec time records. The energy at the harmonic 
frequency is not obvious in the wave spectrum but clear in the 
wave scalogram. 
 The superiority of CWT and ICWT on analyzing the instant 
wave features from the buoy acceleration signals.
OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
Summary2
 We confirm that instant wave nonlinearities are related to the 
steepness of wave profiles, instant nonlinear wave profiles are 
steeper than other wave records. 
 The relationship between instant nonlinear waves and the 
steepness of wave profiles may be influenced by different 
seasons. 
OCEANS  ’10  IEEE Sydney
Advances in understanding of marine environments in the Western Pacific
Thank you
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：高家俊 計畫編號：96-2221-E-006-203-MY3 
計畫名稱：海面波浪對颱風暴潮推算影響之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
1.陳孟宏、范揚
洺、李汴軍、高家
俊，2010，應用
ROMS 模擬台灣東
南海域之初探，第
32 屆海洋工程研
討會論文集。 
2.范揚洺、馮智
源、李汴軍、高家
俊 、 陳 孟 宏 ，
2009，應用 ROMS
海洋模式模擬南
灣 海 域 潮 流 流
場，第 31 屆海洋
工程研討會論文
集 ， 第 203~208
頁。 
3.林敬傑、莊士
賢、李汴軍、高家
俊、楊益昇、陳柏
彰，2008，風剪力
對暴潮推算之影
響，第 30 屆海洋
工程研討會，第
135-140 頁。 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 1 1 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
