(一) 中英文摘要 
摘要 
單一的奈米銀柱或兩根以上的奈米銀柱陣列會吸收可見光產生表面電漿共振。我們利用三
維有限差分時域方法研究奈米銀柱陣列由於表面電漿共振導致再發射出的電場之影像。模
擬研究發現，透過不同截面的電場分布情形，確認局域化的表面電漿會聚集在銀柱表面，
並且沿奈米銀柱方向傳播，在奈米銀柱底部電場的分部可以形成各種圖形，而且，這些圖
形比可見光波長還小，並且可以利用可見光偏振的方向來產生各種我們所需的圖案。該次
波場的奈米電場圖形可以應用於半導體製程的奈米微影技術上。 
 
關鍵字：表面電漿，奈米影像，奈米銀柱，三維有限差分時域法，奈米微影 
 
Abstract 
We numerically investigate the reemitted field image and enhancement factor due to plasmonic 
resonances of a single silver nanorod, nanorod-pair and nanorod array, which are embedded in a 
silica block, by 3-dimensional finite-different time-domain method.  The field distributions in 
different sectional planes of the nanorods in our simulation confirm that light energy is confined 
at surface and transmitted through the nanorod structures.  The intensities of reemitted fields are 
enhanced and form a subwavelength image in the imaging plane comparison with the results 
when there is no silver nanorod structure.  Also, it is interesting that the patterns of reemitted 
image through silver nanorod array can be controlled by the polarization direction of incident 
light.  This structure possesses a deep transfer of subwavelength images and can be used to the 
applications of image transfer or nano-lithography. 
 
Keywords: surface plasmons, nanoimages, silver nanorods, 3D-FDTD, nanolithography. 
 
the image plane are shown in figure 1(b).  There are three set of images: The left column shows 
the results when the nanorod array is absent; the middle column shows that when the hexagonal 
arranged nanorod array is presence; and the right column shows that when the nanorod array is 
replaced by a silver slab which thickness is equal to the height of the nanorod.  
These images are simulated by three-dimensional finite-difference time-domain (3D-FDTD) 
algorithm. The space includes 200×200×200 cubic Yee cells. Each edge of the Yee cell is set to 1 
nm. The time step used in our simulation is 1.67×10-18 seconds, thus it takes about 976 time steps 
to propagate one wavelength, that is, 488 nm. We use perfectly matched layer (PML) as the 
absorption boundary condition. The program iteration is running until the system achieves a 
steady state, that is, when a periodic variation is repeated. The results of middle column in Fig. 
1(b) shows a good agreement with the figure 1 in Ono’s paper[22]. And, the “λ” pattern is no 
longer existed for the case when the nanorod array is replaced by an Ag slab (results of right 
column in Fig. 1(b)). This is due to the delocalization of surface plasmons on the silver slab. By 
comparing the results of the three cases shown in Fig. 1(b), we can clearly see the influence of 
localized plasmonic resonance at each Ag nanorod on the image quality of patterned point 
sources. These results come to the conclusion that Ag nanorod array has the ability to localize and 
transfer optical waves or energy through a further distance without dispersing. But all of these 
results are obtained under the two unreal conditions: Point sources are used and the nanorods are 
dangling in air.  In the following studies, we will use plane waves as light source, and the 
nanorods are embedded in the silica. 
 
Fig. 1(a)  A hexagonal arrangement nanorod array. The blue dots mark the nanorods under which the point 
sources are placed. 
3. Plasmonic resonance of a single nanorod 
We now study the interaction of a single silver nanorod with an optical plane wave.  
Consider a silver nanorod with diameter 20 nm and height 50 nm, which is embedded in a silica 
block.  The thickness of the silica is the same as the height of nanorods and its relative 
permittivity is set to 2.141.  The permittivity of silver has the from of ( ) ( )ωνω
ωωε −+= c
p
i
2
1 , where 
pω =2π×(2×1015) Hz is the plasma frequency, and cν =0.057×1015 Hz is the electron collision 
frequency.  Thus, the permittivity of silver is ε =-9.581-i0.156 for wavelength of 488 nm.  The 
wavelength of the incident light used here is 488nm and its propagation direction is along the –z 
direction.  The electromagnetic field components are (Ey, Hx), as depicted in Fig. 2, that is, 
y-polarized light.  The edge of a cubic Yee cell is 0.5 nm. 
Figures 2(a) to 2(d) show the distribution of electric field intensity in cross sections of x-y 
plane at the top, middle, bottom and 10 nm below the bottom of the silver nanorod, respectively.  
Figure 2(e) shows the field intensity distribution in cross section of y-z plane which across the 
axis of the silver nanorod.  From these results, we can see that the electric field intensity is 
enhanced at the two sides, which line up along the y-axis, of the nanorod, they demonstrate that 
this field enhancement is related to the polarization of incident light.  The field distributions in 
Figs. 2(a), 2(b) and 2(c) look like rings, which reveal that the light energy is trapped and 
enhanced at the surface of silver nanorod and transferred by surface plasmons generated on the 
silver surface.  In our 3D-FDTD simulations, the electric field intensity is varied sinusoidally 
with time, so that is the highest value of field intensity is the same in every oscillating period.  
All the Results shown in Fig. 2 are the snapshot at 3500th time step.  We choose this time step to 
show is because that if we sum up the intensity values during one period of the oscillating field, 
the resulted intensity distributions are mostly similar to the field distribution at 3500th time step 
qualitatively.  Also, because the values of field intensity are normalized to that of incident light, 
 
Fig. 2 The distribution of electric field intensity at the surface and below a single silver nanorod. 
4. Plasmonic resonance of nanorod pairs 
According to the result shown in Fig. 2(d), the reemitted field in the image plane has 
maximum intensity at about 10 nm away from the surface of single silver nanorod. Also, we can 
see that the light spot of the remitted field at both sides are distributed in about 20 nm×20 nm 
area. If we put two identical nanorods closely enough, say 10 nm, the remitted fields from 
plasmonic resonances of two silver nanorods may interact with each other to form a coupling 
remitted image. This field distribution of coupled nanoimage should depend on the polarization 
direction of incident light. Consider a pair of silver nanorods, and the spacing between them is 10 
nm as shown in Fig. 3. Both nanorods are embedded in silica, and the thickness of the silica block 
is the same as the height of nanorods. The edge of the Yee cell is 1nm. 
We will study two kinds of light polarization with respect to the arrangement of the 
nanorods, that is, x- and y-polarizations shown in Fig. 3. The results of field intensity distribution 
for x-polarized and y-polarized incident light are shown in the left and right sides of Fig. 3, 
respectively. Again, all the results of field intensity distribution shown in Fig. 3 are the snapshot 
at 3500th time step of our FDTD simulation. From the results of field distribution in every cross 
section, we can clearly see the polarization dependence of field patterns. The field enhancement 
due to plasmonic resonance of nanorod pair is probably distributed at the sides along the direction 
parallel to the direction of light polarization. Additionally, we find that the remitted electric field 
patterns in the image plane (Fig. 3(d)) have very different distributions for x- and y-polarized 
incident light. This property of remitted field patterns may be used to control the nanoimages 
through the nanorod pair for photolithography applications. On the other hand, the field 
enhancement factor for y-polarization light is larger than that for x-polarization light. This result 
comes from the plasmonic coupling between the two silver nanorods, that is, light energy is 
trapped more concentrated in the case of y-polarization incident light.   
It is interesting to look at the different field patterns remitted from plasmonic resonances of 
the nanorod pairs in the imaging plane (Fig. 3(d)). The results show that the field intensity or 
light energy is concentrated at some subwavelength regions and is enhanced compared with the 
incident light. Also, the distribution local field enhancement is correlated to the polarizations of 
incident light. The two figures in the bottom of Fig. 3 show some variations of field intensity 
along y-axis at x = 100, 110, 116 nm for both x- and y-polarization cases. We can see that the 
highest field enhancement occur at x = 116 nm and x = 84 nm, i.e. besides the center-to-center 
line of the nanorod pair, for x-polarization light, and they occur at x = 100 nm, i.e. along the 
center-to-center line of the nanorod pair, for y-polarization light. These results demonstrate the 
correlation between the coupled surface plasmon resonances at silver nanorod pairs and the 
distribution of local field enhancement. These polarization-dependent reemitting field patterns 
inspire us to study the method to control the nanoimages by manipulating light polarization or 
relative arrangement of silver nanorod array. 
 
nanorod is 20 nm. Again, the accumulated field intensities in the imaging plane and at the 
midpoint between two nanorods are recorded. Only the case of y-polarization incident light is 
considered because the field intensity for this case is always larger than that of x-polarization 
incident light. Figure 5(b) shows the variations of accumulated intensities with different rod 
heights. The green curve in Fig. 5(b) represents the result when nanorod pairs are embedded in 
silica block. If the silica block is removed, the variation of accumulated intensities with different 
rod heights is represented by the orange dashed curve. The field intensity of the embedded 
nanorod pairs in the imaging plane are always larger than that of bare nanorod pairs. This result 
reveals that the dielectric surrounding also play an important role in affecting the coupled surface 
plasmon resonances of the nanorod pairs.   
It should be mentioned that when the height of a nanorod is less than its diameter, it will 
become a nanodisk. Though the nanodisks have stronger reemitting field intensity in the imaging 
plane than that of the nanorods, they are beyond the scope of nanorods which we want to 
investigate here. Thus, we will consider the height of nanorod pairs just from 25 nm to 55 nm.  
Therefore, the optimal height of the nanorod pair embedded in silica is about 40 nm. In the next, 
we will choose the optimal conditions from the results shown in Figs. 4(b) and 5(b) to construct a 
nanorod array, and the reemitting optical nanoimages from the nanorod array will be discussed. 
 
 
Fig. 4(a) A line of silver nanorods with spacing is incremental. 
 
Fig. 4(b) The variation of accumulated field intensity at the center of two silver nanorods with rod spacing.  The 
values shown in vertical axis are the accumulated intensity of electric field for the duration of the exposure.  The 
optimal condition, i.e. when maximum field enhancement occurs, is happened at rod spacing about 15 nm for the 
case of y-polarization light. 
 
 
Fig. 5(a) A series of nanorod pairs with spacing 15 nm, and the rod heights are increased from 10 nm to 100 nm. 
 
 Fig. 6 The images of the hexagonal nanorod array under two kinds of polarizations. The reemitting nanoimages are 
shown in layer (d).  These remitted nanopatterns in the imaging plane are resulted from the coupling of the nearest 
hot spots due to surface plasmon resonances. 
 
Fig. 7 (Animation) The continuous variation of the reemitting nanopatterns with different polarizations. 
 
Fig. 8 The reemitting nanopattern in the imaging plane when a circular polarization light is illuminated. 
7. Conclusion 
The near-field optical properties and light energy transmission of a single nanorod, nanorod 
pair and nanorod array due to plasmonic resonances have been investigated. It is found that the 
plasmonic coupling is dependent on the size of the nanorod and the spacing between two 
nanorods. On the other hand, the features of remitted patterns from silver nanorod array are very 
different for light polarizations along different axes of the array. It is possible to create many 
subwavelength patterns of reemitted image by arranging the silver nanorods and varying 
polarization of incident light. It is noticeable that the spatial resolution of the remitted field 
patterns is much beyond the diffraction limit of light, which is primarily determined by the size of 
the silver nanorods. Also, it is seen that the field intensity of remitting images from the nanorod 
18. A. Alu and A. Salandrino, “Negative effective permeability and left-handed materials at 
optical frequencies”, Optics express 14, 1557-1567 (2006). 
19. V. M. Shalaev (Ed.), “Optical Properties of Nanostructured Media”, Topics Appl. Phys. 82, 
Springer, (2002). 
20. Wadim A. Markel and Thomas F. George (Ed.), “Optics of nanostructured materials”, John 
Wiley & Sons, (2001). 
21. Junji Tominaga and Din P. Tsai(Ed.), “Optical Nanotechnologies : The Manipulation of 
Surface and Local Plasmons”, Springer, (2003). 
22. A. Ono, J. Kato and S. Kawata, “Subwavelength Optical Imaging through a Metallic Nanorod 
Array”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 267407 (2005). 
23. J. R. Krenn, A. Dereux, J. C. Weeber, E. Bourillot, Y. Lacroute, J. P. Goudonnet, G. Schider, 
W. Gotschy, A. Leitner, F. R. Aussenegg, and C. Girard, “Squeezing the Optical Near-Field 
Zone by Plasmon Coupling of Metallic Nanoparticles”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 2590-2593 
(1999). 
24. K. Li, M. I. Stockman, and D. J. Bergman, “Self-Similar Chain of Metal Nanospheres as an 
Efficient Nanolens”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 227402 (2003). 
25. P. Mühlschlegel, H. J. Eisler, O. J. F. Martin, B. Hecht, and D. W. Pohl, “Resonant Optical 
Antennas”, Science 308, 1607-1609 (2005). 
26. K. Li, X. Li, M. I. Stockman, and D. J. Bergman, “Surface plasmon amplification by 
stimulated emission in nanolenses”, Phys. Rev. B 71, 115409 (2005). 
27. K. Li, M. I. Stockman, and D. J. Bergman, “Enhanced second harmonic generation in a 
self-similar chain of metal nanospheres”, Phys. Rev. B 72, 153401 (2005). 
28. S. E. Sburlan, L. A. Blanco, and M. Nieto-Vesperinas, “Plasmon excitation in sets of 
nanoscale cylinders and spheres”, Phys. Rev. B 73, 035403 (2006). 
29. J. Aizpurua, Garnett W. Bryant, Lee J. Richter, and F. J. García de Abajo, “Optical properties 
of coupled metallic nanorods for field-enhanced spectroscopy”, Phys. Rev. B 71, 235420 
(2005). 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：97 年 10 月 31 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：奈米銀柱陣列中表面電漿耦合作用應用於奈米微影技術
之可行性研究 
計畫主持人：陳聖鐘         
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－269－005－ 學門領域：光電 
技術/創作名稱 應用奈米銀柱製作圖形之光罩 
發明人/創作人 陳聖鐘、蔡定平 
技術說明 
中文： 
1. 利用奈米銀柱可吸收偏振化之可見光並產生表面電漿的特性，
製做次波長尺寸之圖形光罩。 
2. 表面電漿具有增強及侷域化的特性，所以，在相鄰之奈米銀柱
間可聚集被增強的光波。 
3. 將奈米銀柱依照所需之圖案，排列成一陣列，並且選擇適當偏
振化之可見光雷射做為光源，進行微影製程。 
英文： 
1. When polarized visible light is illuminated on silver nanorods, 
there will have surface plasmons on them. Base on this 
characteristic, one can make a mask with subwavelength patterns 
on it. 
2. Enhancement and localization are two important properties of 
surface plasmons, thus, there will be enhanced light waves between 
(or among) silver nanorods. 
3. According to the figures needed, one can make a silver nanorods 
array, and choose polarized visible laser properly, then the 
nanolithography will be fulfilled. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
半導體製造業，尤其是其中的奈米微影技術。 
技術特點 突破光學繞射極限，利用可見光雷射，配合以奈米銀柱排列而成的光罩，即可產生數十奈米尺寸的影像，且可行性高。 
推廣及運用的價值 
半導體 80 奈米製程已接近繞射極限，下世代的製程關鍵在於能否
突破繞射極限。本研究之結果提出一可行之技術，相信極具有開發
及應用之價值。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
附件二 
