Research on Scalable QoS Multicast Routing Protocol
Chih-Jen Tseng
中文摘要
現行網際網路之盡力傳送(best effort)機制尚無法保證可良好地支援語音及視訊等即
時性多媒體資料之傳輸服務品質(QoS)。此問題在群播傳輸(IP multicasting)時將更加嚴
重，因其試圖同時地傳輸多媒體資料到網際網路上之多個接收者。因此，保證傳輸服務品
質的群播路由(QoS multicast routing)方法之角色於現今益形重要。在文獻中已有一些有關
保證傳輸服務品質的群播路由方法[1-6]被提出。然而，其仍受到因散播連線狀態資訊之高
通信負荷而衍生擴充性(scalability)問題之影響。本計劃研究之目的即試圖解決現行方法之
擴充性問題。其乃基於吾人先前提出的範圍限制之散播機制(scope-limited advertising
scheme) [4]，並改進成支援可變動限制範圍(variable-scope)之散播機制以更精巧地減輕通
信負荷。此外，本計劃並導入磁滯式連線狀態資訊更新機制(hysteresis-based link state update
scheme) 以更進一步降低通信負荷來並改善擴充性問題。
關鍵詞：服務品質群播路由、可擴充性、範圍限制散播、磁滯式
I
1. Introduction
The age of QoS-aware Internet is not come out yet. Its best efort scheme can’t support the 
more and more requirement on real time audio or video delivery since no quality of service for
such delivery can be guaranteed. Besides, the multipoint communication applications of IP
multicasting including multimedia distribution, IP/TV, VOD and multimedia conference can
efficiently save the bandwidth when a source try to delivery multimedia content to multiple
receivers concurrently on Internet. Therefore, the role of QoS multicast routing is more
important today.
The field of QoS routing still is a public research field that excessively attracts notice [3].
Professor X. Masip-Bruin et al have analyzed diverse research challenges of QoS routing in
their recent paper [3]. In the area of dynamic QoS multicast routing protocol, there needs more
research efforts on those issues including the scalability of proposed communication protocol,
well network state update strategy, and the QoS routing based on inaccurate routing information.
The dynamic QoS multicast routing protocols try to find a feasible path segment to attach
the existing multicast delivery tree for each join request associated with specific QoS
requirements including minimum bandwidth of a route or end-to-end path delay. From the
literature, the existing research works on this field can be separated into on-demand based [1,5-7]
or precomputation based [4]. The problem of long join latency to search the feasible route by
on-demand approach can efficiently improved by precomputation-based approach. Where some
candidate attachment routes can be precomputed based on the topology information advertising
from other routers. By using the precomputed candidate routes, the feasible QoS route can be
computed soon upon receiving the join request. However, the scalability problem of high
communication overhead incurred by frequently advertising link state information inhibits its
evolution. The authors had proposed a precomputation based MQOSPF [4] protocol, which can
tradeoff between routing performance and routing overhead via a scope-limited advertising
scheme.
To efficiently distribute the link state information, there are many researches on update
strategies proposed in the literatures [8-9]. The advertised dynamic information includes
network topology, link’s available bandwidth, link’s delay, and the group membership. It may be 
time based or event-driven based. The time based update strategies advertise network
information periodically. The adverting period have deep influence on the communication
overhead, which will exacerbate in case of frequently advertising. The event-driven ones can
update the link state information more efficient. Furthermore, a hysteresis update scheme [10]
can more efficiently improve the routing stability and routing overhead.
The purpose of this project tries to develop a scalable QoS multicast routing protocol,
which applies the hysteresis update scheme together with an improved variable scope-limited
advertising to efficiently reduce the communication overhead.
The rest of this report is organized as follows. The next section illustrates the basis of
improved variable scope-limited advertising and diverse update strategies including the hysteresis
update scheme used in this research. The evaluation environment as well as those extensive
simulation results is analyzed in section 3. Finally, a brief summary is given in section 4.
1
backward movement of the cost of link state does not along the same path as forward. Such
non-reversible process is called the phenomenon of hysteresis.
The traditional threshold-based update strategy will result in the problem of trigger oscillation
when the cost of link state shifts around a predefined threshold back-and-forth. Different from the
threshold-based strategy, we use uni-direction trigger mode of hysteresis-based update strategy in
our protocol. The advertising process will be triggered again when the backward (forward)
movement of link state’s cost across the value of TH-(TH+) after its previous update trigger
for forward (backward) movement across the value of TH+(TH-). Where the value of TH
denotes the predefined threshold while the value of is a positive integer representing the
coefficient of guard band. Clearly, the problem of trigger oscillation will be inhibited by the
hysteresis-based update strategy, thus the problem of scalability can be improved since more
unnecessary information exchange can be omitted.
Figure 1. The Hysteresis-based advertisement.
3. Simulation
We evaluate the routing performance and routing overhead of the improved scalable QoS
multicast routing protocol via the ns-2 network simulator [12] in this section. The routing
performance includes connection join latency (routing latency) and the success probability for
finding feasible route, while the routing overhead mainly represented by communication
overhead.
3.1 The evaluation environment
Diverse randomly generated topologies with node count, 25~250 nodes, are simulated for
scalability experiment. In those topologies, the link bandwidths are uniformly distributed between
5~50 Mbits/sec and link's delays are uniformly distributed within 1~15 ms. Both lightly and
heavily loaded network scenarios are simulated. For the light network load case, connection QoS
requirements (b, d) are set so that the QoS constraints are easily satisfied. In case of heavily
loaded network, either theb values or thed values are tight.
3
success rate (bandwidth constraint), net200
0
20
40
60
80
100
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45
link failure probability, %
su
cc
es
s
ra
te
,%
qmrp
mqospfL4
mqospfL6
mqospfL4+Hy&Vs
mqospfL6+Hy&Vs
Figure 3. Success probability performance.
C. Communication overhead. In figure 4, total control messages of evaluated protocol
simulated under diverse node count, 25~250 nodes, of randomly generated topologies is shown.
When the value of equals to zero, the fully on-demand based protocol has the lowest
communication overhead. As the value of increases, the communication overhead of evaluated
protocol increases dramatically.
Clearly, the evaluated QoS multicast protocol with large value ofdoes not scale well when
the size of topology grows up. That means the globally advertising scheme of QOSPF protocol
may have serious communication overhead problem. Obviously, the tradeoff between routing
performance and the communication overhead can be controlled by varying the parameter of
advertisement semidiameter . Modest value of is desired to balance the tradeoff. Besides, as
shown in this figure, the evaluated protocol based on variable scope-limited advertising with
hysteresis-based link state update scheme can well control the protocol overhead. Thus, it
demonstrates the well scalability of the improved QoS multicast routing protocol.
control message overhead
0
20
40
60
80
100
25 50 100 150 200 250
node count
co
nt
ro
lm
es
sa
ge
,k
pk
ts
qmrp
mqospfL4
mqospfL6
mqospfL4+Hy&Vs
mqospfL6+Hy&Vs
Figure 4. Communication overhead evaluation.
5
計畫成果自評
一、 研究內容與原計畫相符程度
本計畫研究成果之報告內容與原計畫相符。
二、 達成預期目標情況
本計畫基於吾人先前提出的範圍限制之散播機制，並改進成支援可變動限制範圍之散
播機制以更精巧地減輕通信負荷。此外，本計劃並導入磁滯式連線狀態資訊更新機制
以更進一步降低通信負荷。因此，本計畫研究成果已適度地達成改善擴充性問題之預
期目標。
三、 研究成果之學術或應用價值
本計畫研究成果可有效地改善擴充性問題，因此，研究成果具學術或應用價值。
四、 是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利
因本計畫研究成果僅針對散播連線狀態資訊之高通信負荷而衍生之擴充性問題進行
探討，其質與量尚須進一步擴充才適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利。
五、 主要發現或其他有關價值
可變動限制範圍之散播機制確實可以更精巧地減輕通信負荷，而磁滯式連線狀態資訊
更新機制也確實能夠更進一步降低通信負荷。
