2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
奈米金屬處理含鹵素持久性有機污染物之研究
The Treatment of Halogenated Persistent Organic Pollutants by Nanoscale Metals
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-005-052-
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：施養信 yhs@nchu.edu.tw
計畫參與人員：戴佑宗、王淳剛、陳孟宜、周希瓴
執行機構及單位名稱：國立中興大學土壤環境科學系
Abstract
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) recognized as a new class of environmental persistent
toxic contaminants have been distributed widely in the world. In this study, the synthesized
nanoscale zero-valent iron (NZVI) in the laboratory was used to investigate the reduction kinetics
and mechanisms of DBDE (decabrominated diphenyl ether) at different pH under an ambient
condition. Within 40 minutes 90% of DBDE was transformed by NZVI into lower bromo
congeners. The degradation by NZVI is much faster than that by microscale due to its high
surface area and reactivity. At a different pH, the debromination rate constants of DBDE linearly
increased from 0.08 to 0.023 min-1 with the decreasing of aqueous pH values from 10.0 to 5.0.
The dehalogenation of DBDE with NZVI is favorable in an acid condition. Reactions at different
pH proceeded fast at the initial phase (< 1 hour) followed by a slow reaction. Upon chemical
reduction, DBDE rapidly reductively dehalogenated to other BDEs. During the experimental time,
PBDEs ranging from nona- to mono- bromodiphenyl ethers were observed. The debromination
pathways of DBDE with NZVI were proposed. The results suggested that a stepwise reductive
debromination phenomenon was the dominant reaction.
Keywords: Nanoscale zero-valent iron; Decabrominated diphenyl ether; Polybrominated
diphenyl ethers; Debromination.
1. Introduction
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are widely used as additive flame-retardants in
various industrial products to reduce their fire hazards by interfering with the combustion of the
polymeric materials. In recent years, PBDEs have been detected in various environmental media
and their concentrations in certain biota have increased [1]. In China, the country’s birds of prey
have some of the highest levels of PBDEs ever recorded in animals [2]. Current concentrations
of PBDEs were also measured in human samples such as blood, milk, and tissue [3]. Some
PBDEs have been identified as endocrine disruptors which could induce neurodevelopmental
deficits and cancer [4-6]. The concern about the risks of PBDEs has increased.
4debromination pathways.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Chemicals
Decabrominated diphenyl ether was purchased from Fluka Chemical Co. (Buchs,
Switzerland). Two high purity chemical powders, NaBH4 and FeCl3‧6 H2O, were purchased
from Riedel-deHaёn(Seelze, Germany). A microscale ZVI was obtained from Aldrich in
commercial grade (purity > 99%). A mixture standard of 14 PBDE congeners each having from
three to seven bromine atoms and decabrominated diphenyl ether, was obtained from
Accustandard (New Haven, CT). Another mixture standard of 39 PBDE congeners each having
from one to seven bromine atoms, was obtained from Cambridge Isotope Laboratories (Andover,
MA). Three individual congeners (BDE-206, -207 and -208) were purchased from Wellington
Laboratories (Guelph, Canada). Hexachlorobenzene was used as an internal standard and
purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (Milwaukee, WI).
2.2. Preparation of nanoscale ZVI
Nanoscale zerovalent iron particles were prepared by the method in previous literatures [23,
30]. Nanoscale zerovalent iron particles were synthesized by adding an aqueous solution of 1.6 M
NaBH4 dropwise to an 1 M FeCl3‧6 H2O solution at ambient temperature with acute stirring.
Due to the spillage of hydrogen foaming, NaBH4 solution was carefully added to FeCl3．6H2O
aqueous solution. Period of the reaction process, ferric iron was reduced and zerovalent iron
particles precipitated instantly according to the following reaction [23]:
2
- 10.5H3B(OH)FeO3H3BHO)Fe(H 3
0
24
3
62 
 (2)
2.3. Characterization of nanoscale iron
Particle size and morphology of the nanoscale ZVI particles were determined using a photon
correlation spectroscopy (PCS N5, Beckman coulter, UK) and a field emission scanning electron
microscopy (FE-SEM JEOL JEM-2010), respectively. Surface area of the nanoscale Fe0 particles
was measured using isothermal nitrogen adsorption method with Micromeritics ASAP 2100
surface area analyzer (Micrometics Ins. Corp., UK) at 77 K. A five-point BET isotherm was used
to determine the total available surface area of the nanoscale ZVI.
2.4. Treatment of DBDE by nanoscale ZVI
Batch experiments were conducted to investigate reactivity of the nanoscale ZVI particles
for debromination of DBDE. A 1 mL stock solution of DBDE (70 mg/L) was added in to each 25
mL amber serum vials and then 25 ml deionized water mixed with 1 g of nanoscale ZVI particles
was added. Each bottle was covered with Teflon-lined cap and then incubated at 25℃ while
stirring on a rotary shaker (125 rpm). Controls without nanoscale ZVI were prepared according to
the same procedures without nanoscale ZVI. Parallel experiments were also performed with an
Aldrich microscale iron with the same weight of nanoscale ZVI particles. Three replicates were
done for all the experiments. HCl or NaOH was used to control the pH. In this study, the pH was
controlled within the ranges of pH 5.0 to 10.0.
2.4.1. PBDEs analysis.
6ZVI particles in 90 minutes. In the same period of time, more than 90% of DBDE were degraded
by nanoscale ZVI particles. In the control experiments without iron particles, the concentration of
DBDE was quite stable. The debromination rate of DBDE fits well to the pseudo-first-order
kinetics. The first-order rate constant (k) for nanoscale zerovalent iron is calculated to be 0.0583
min-1. In comparison, the value of k for commercial microscale zerovalent iron is 0.0077 min-1.
The reactivity of the nanoscale zerovalent iron is about 8-fold higher than that of the microscale
zerovalent iron.
The reaction rate constant for chemical reduction of DBDE by nanoscale iron particles is
also one order of magnitude greater than that of microscale particles [38]. They also indicated
that the time for 92% of DBDE transformed into lower bromo congeners by microscale ZVI
needed 40 days, which is longer than that by nanoscale ZVI by around 1 hour in this work.
Comparing the results of our study and similar studies reported in the literature, nanoscale iron
particles outperform microscale ones. The reduction rate constants of trichloroethene (TCE) by
nanoscale zerovalent iron were faster than that by microscale zerovalent iron [23]. The nitrate
reduction rates of nanoscale ZVI were generally one to two orders of magnitude greater than that
of microscale ZVI [37]. A much greater specific surface area for nanoscale ZVI (e.g. 52.0 m2g-1
in this work) as compared with the specific surface area for microscale ZVI (0.17 m2g-1) and
nanoparticle size effect should account for the high reduction rate for DBDE.
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
0 50 100 150
Time (min)
D
B
D
E
C
t/C
0
Nanoscale
ZVI
Microscale
ZVI
Blank
Fig.3. Degradation kinetics of DBDE by nanoscale and microscale ZVIs.
3.3. Effect of pH
The changes of the DBDE concentration at pH 5.0, 7.0, 8.0, and 10.0 were presented in Fig.
4. Comparing the removal efficiencies of DBDE by nanoscale ZVI for the cases of with pH
control at 10.0 and with pH control at 5.0, the latter had a more than 80 % removal of DBDE
after a treatment time of around 40 min. In the former, however, more than 40 % residual was
found even when its treatment time was tripled. A possible reason for the phenomenon might be
that a lower pH gives rise to a greater extent of acid washing of ion oxides on metallic iron
surfaces [37]. The same result also happened in nitrate reduction by iron powder [39]. They
demonstrated that the nitrate removal rate decreased with an increase in pH. Meng et al. [40] was
also pointed out that the reduction of carbon tetrachloride (CT) was effected by the change of pH
in solution. At lower pH, the reduction rate constant of CT by zerovalent iron was twice than
those at higher pH. Moreover, Liu and Lowry [27] showed that decreasing pH from 8.9 to 6.5
resulted in a doubling of the observed TCE reaction rate constant. That is, lowering pH would
80
0.25
0.5
0.75
1
1.25
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
Time (min)
C
t
/C
0
pH 5
pH 7
pH 8
pH 10
Fig. 4. Effect of pH on the degradation
kinetics of DBDE by nanoscale ZVI.
y = -0.106x - 0.595
R2 = 0.98
-1.8
-1.6
-1.4
-1.2
-1
-0.8
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
pH
lo
g
k
(m
in-
1 )
Fig. 5. Correlation between debromination
rate constants and pH values.
3.4. Reaction Products
The transformations of DBDE to lower bromo congeners by nanoscale ZVI at three different
pH values are shown in Figs 6-8. Chemical reduction of DBDE by ZVI produced decomposition
products of lower bromine substituted BDEs mainly compared to those of known congeners in
analytical reference standards and identified by their mass spectra. Because not all standards were
available, not all PBDEs can be identified and quantified. The protocol used to identify the
structural isomer groups herein was reported by Bezares-crus et al. [12]. The subsequent
decomposition was found by the identification of the formation from n-bromo- to (n-1)-bromo
DE congeners with the increasing time of reaction. All figures show that a rapid debromination of
DBDE was observed during this experiment time followed by a gradual decrease.
Figure 6 shows the time course for the reduction of DBDE with nanoscale ZVI at pH 5.0.
During the initial reaction period of DBDE (<20 mins), nona-BDEs were the most abundant
byproducts and hepta- and octa-BDEs were formed. Penta- and hexabromo congeners were
observed after 60 mins and the concentration of penta- and hexabromo congeners slowly
increased with time. The low concentration of these byproducts may result from the high
reactivity of NZVI in this acid condition. Products with less bromines were probably quickly
degraded when they were formed. Figure 7 shows the percent distribution of byproducts of
DBDE after the reaction with nanoscale ZVI at pH 7.0. Nona-BDEs were also the most dominant
congeners and their concentration decreased with time. Less substituted congeners appear in
succession as the reaction time increases. The percent distributions of hexa- to octa-BDEs
increased during the experimental time and the percent distributions of hepta-BDEs were even
higher than nonabromo congeners at the end of the experiment. Figure 8 shows the byproduct
distribution of DBDE transformed by nanoscale ZVI at pH 10.0. The percent distributions of
heptabromo congeners rapidly increased before 50 mins, and hepta-BDEs became the most
dominant byproducts at the end of the experiment. The concentration of hexa-BDEs slowly
increased with time. The difference of byproduct distribution at these three pHs may result from
that the slower reaction rate and the higher amount of debromination byproducts observed.
Direct evidence of the pH effect on the debromination can also be found by examining the
product distribution ratio. As DBDE disappears, there is a minor formation of lower brominated
BDEs from nona-BDEs to mono-BDEs in acid and neutral conditions. For an alkaline condition,
10
was observed but the continued reductive debromination of pentabromo congeners did not occur.
The passive layers may form on the iron surface in an alkaline condition [13, 41]. Consequently,
the subsequent debromination process was inhibited due to the decrease of the electron transfer
from ZVI surface.
Fig. 9. Proposed debromination pathways of
DBDE by zerovalent iron at pH 5.0 and 7.0.
Fig. 10. Proposed debromination pathways of
DBDE by zerovalent iron at pH 10.0.
The degradation of DBDE with NZVI particles occurs through stepwise reductive
debromination mechanism from n-bromo- to (n-1)-bromo-DEs. It is consistent with the
degradation of polybrominated diphenyl ethers by microscale zero-valent iron [38]. Stepwise
dehalogenation has been presented in the chemical degradation of polychlorinated biphenyls [42].
In the photodegradation of PBDEs, the reductive debromination by successive losses of bromine
atoms is also confirmed as the main pathway [11, 12, 43, 44]. Several other transformation
mechanisms have been investigated under different conditions. The oxidation process has been
reported in the treatment of pesticides with ZVI in oxygen-rich conditions [29]. In
biotransformation process of PBDEs in animals and microorganisms, the hydroxylation or the
cleavage of ether bond of PBDEs to hydroxyl PBDEs or phenol group chemicals has been found
[45-49]. In photodegradation process, the intramolecular cyclization could occur by the
dissociation of C-Br bond, thus, polybromo-dibenzofurans were formed [43, 44]. However, none
of these products were identified during our experiments.
4. Conclusion
Nanoscale zero-valent iron can rapidly transform DBDE to lower bromo congeners at
ambient temperature and pressure. Compared to the debromination of PBDEs with microscale
ZVI, NZVI provides the fast reductive degradation kinetics and small amount of brominated
byproducts formed. Dehalogenation of DBDE with NZVI was faster at more acid pH. A linear
decrease relationship of the reaction rate constant for DBDE over a pH range 5.0-10.0 was
