In this project, the PSO approach is studied. To facilitate the PSO 
process, five different PSO’s were encoded using a radius and circle 
center (x, y) and extensively evaluated using an experimental 
design, in which the impact of inertia weight, maximum velocity 
and the number of particles on the performance of the particle 
swarm optimizer was analyzed. Finally, the proposed method is 
verified and validated with a set of industrial testing images for 
MIC, MCC and MZC roundness measurement.  
The following report is the research results of the project, which was 
presented and published in the 7th International Conference on 
Natural Computation held on 26-28 July 2011 in Shanghai, China. 
 
 2
中文摘要 
於品質管制及量測之領域中，量測具有圓弧之物件的真圓度為一常見之問題；為此領域中，最小
平方圓法(LSC) 為最常使用之量測方法，但是，當此圓弧具有缺陷或特殊之幾何輪廓時，最小平方圓
僅可以最小平方誤差之原則下求得其圓度資訊，無法得知其他資訊，如其最大內接圓(Minimum 
Inscribed Circle; MIC)、最小外切圓(Maximum Circumscribed Circle; MCC)及最小區域圓(Minimum Zone 
Circle; MZC)。而 MIC、MCC、MZC 此三種真圓度量測問題通常運用於 Coordinate measuring machine 
之資料運算，此類方法多以 convex hull、Voronoi diagram 等幾何學方法求解其最佳解；但當所量測之
特性為半圓(部分圓)、多圓組合或複雜之組合線(complex circular forms)時，前述中之方法皆無法有效求
得解。於電腦視覺量測領域中，複雜或組合型之圓量測問題為常見之問題，故本研究將以 Particle Swam 
Optimization 為基礎，於電腦視覺系統下發展相關之最佳化方法藉以求解 MIC、MCC、及 MZC 等非
線性規畫問題。 
本研究計畫以 PSO 方法為基礎，主要討論如何將以上三種非線性規劃問題(MIC、MCC、MZC)
以 PSO 方法表示及求解，其中研究主題包括: 問題編碼(Enoding)、五種基礎群聚演算方法之組合、最
佳參數之取得(DOE)以及所得解成效之分析以下報告內容為本研究的研究成果，投稿於 The 7th 
International Conference on Natural Computation，題目為「Roundness Measurement Using the PSO 
Algorithm」。該論文已發表於 7 月 26-28 日在中國上海舉行的研討會並刊登於該研討會論文集。 
關鍵詞：真圓度量測， MIC，MCC，MZC，PSO，HJ-PSO，PSO-GA，電腦視覺。 
 
Abstract 
Measuring the roundness of a circular workpiece is a common problem of quality control and inspection. 
In this area, Least Square Circle (LSC) is the most commonly used method to estimate the circular 
information of a given workpiece. However, when the circular workpiece contains abnormal, discontinuous or 
conditional information, maximum inscribed circle (MIC) and Maximum circumscribing circle (MCC), and 
Minimum zone circle (MZC) are three commonly used methods to measure its roundness. According to the 
literature review, the methods of MIC, MCC, and MZC usually adopted geometrical-based approaches such 
as Voronoi diagram, convex hull, to derive the exact solutions. However, these approaches usually require the 
data performed in a full circle form. When the data perform in partial circle, combined circle, or complex 
circular 3 forms, those geometrical-based methods can hardly reach the solutions. In addition, these complex 
or combined form can often be encountered under a machine vision system. Therefore, this study proposes a 
hybrid heuristic roundness measuring method using Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), method to evaluate 
MIC, MCC and MZC under a machine vision-based system. 
In this project, the PSO approach is studied. To facilitate the PSO process, five different PSO’s were 
encoded using a radius and circle center (x, y) and extensively evaluated using an experimental design, in 
which the impact of inertia weight, maximum velocity and the number of particles on the performance of the 
                                 978-1-4244-9952-6/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE                                 1228
2011 Seventh International Conference on Natural Computation                       
Roundness Measurement Using the PSO Algorithm 
 
Te-Hsiu Sun, Chun-Yuan Cheng* 
Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Management 
Chaoyang University of Technology 
Taichung, Taiwan 
Fang-Chih Tien 
Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Management 
National Taipei University of Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
 
 
Abstract—Measuring the roundness of a circular workpiece is a 
crucial issue of quality control and inspection in industry. In this 
area, maximum inscribed circle (MIC) and Maximum 
circumscribing circle (MCC), Minimum zone circle (MZC) and 
Least Square Circle (LSC) are four commonly used methods. In 
particular, MIC, MCC, and MZC, which are non-linear 
constrained optimization problems, have not been thoroughly 
discussed lately. This study proposes a roundness measuring 
method that applies the Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm 
(PSO) to compute MIC, MCC and MZC. To facilitate the PSO 
process, five different PSO methods are encoded using a radius 
(R) and circle center (x, y) and extensively evaluated using an 
experimental design, in which the impact of inertia weight, 
maximum velocity and the number of particles on the 
performance of the particle swarm optimizer is analyzed. The 
proposed method is verified with a set of testing images and 
benchmarked with the GA-based (Genetic Algorithm) method 
(Chen, 2000). The experimental results reveal that the PSO-based 
method effectively solved the MIC, MCC, and MZC problems 
and outperforms GA-based method in both accuracy and the 
efficiency. As a result, several industrial applications are 
presented to explore the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
proposed method.  
Keywords-Roundness Measurement, Machine Vision, Particle 
Swarm Optimization Algorithm. 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
The heuristic methods such as simulated annealing (SA), 
genetic algorithms (GA), tabu search (TA), ant colony 
optimization (ACO), evolutionary programming (EP) and 
Particle swarm optimization (PSO) have been widely studied 
for a variety of optimization problems. Among these methods, 
particle swarm optimization has been broadly discussed and its 
applications are progressively expanding recently. PSO is an 
evolutionary computation technique developed by Eberhart and 
Kennedy (1995) [1]. The main advantage of PSO is that it can 
be implemented using few components to obtain solutions with 
outstanding quality. The applications of PSO are widespread 
such as evolving artificial neural network, reactive power, 
voltage control, permutation problem, traveling salesman 
problem, data mining and so forth.  
The particle swarm optimization is used by Saleno [2] on a 
number of neural model architectures to solve the XOR 
problem and then is applied to a real problem. Eberhart and Shi 
[3] presented the developments, applications, and resources 
related to PSO that focuses on the applications in engineering 
and computer science. Their experimental results revealed that 
the maximum velocity factor Vmax is a critical factor that should 
not be ignored. If Vmax can be set with a good value, the 
modified optimizer can work well. Wang, Huang, Zhou, and 
Pang [4] proposed a new application of PSO to traveling 
salesman problem (TSP). They combined the concept of swap 
operator, swap sequence, particle swarm optimization, and 
redefined some operators to resolve the TSP with good 
solutions. Sousa, Silva, and Neves [5] established an algorithm 
for data mining on the basis of PSO. They further compared 
PSO with genetic algorithms in the classification of data 
mining. Liao, Tseng, and Luarn [6] presented a PSO algorithm 
for flowshop scheduling by extending the discrete PSO. In their 
algorithm, the particle and the velocity were redefined, an 
efficient approach was developed to move a particle to the new 
sequence. Lee [7] introduced an innovative fuzzy model 
developed by Takagi and Sugeno for function approximation, 
in which GA and PSO are used in the proposed algorithm to 
fine-tune the parameter set. 
In quality control and inspection area, roundness 
measurement is an important issue. The roundness is a property 
possessed by a line or surface that is curved and not angular, 
and is also one of the basic geometric features of a circular 
workpiece. Therefore, a common problem of inspection of a 
circular workpiece is to measure its roundness. The roundness 
error is the annular space between two concentric circles which 
are the reference feature and actual feature circle. Chetwynd [8] 
performed a limicon method to the best-fit roundness 
references. They conducted a comparison of roundness 
measurement using limacon references with minimum zone, 
minimum circumscribing, maximum inscribing and least 
squares criteria. Later, Chetwynd and Philipson [9] investigated 
the minimum zone circle (MZC), the minimum circumscribing 
circle (MCC) and the maximum inscribing circle (MIC). Le 
and Lee [10] proposed a new roundness measurement called 
the minimum area difference center which has lower 
computation complexity. Li, Gong, and Xue [11] constructed a 
roundness measurement method by using a series of Gaussian 
digital approximation filters, which was designed on the basis 
of approximation method and bilinear transformation. 
Most of existing roundness measuring methods are contact-
type and are operated by using a precise spindle to produce a 
relative rotational movement between a radial-mounted 
position transducer and the circular workpiece. Those contact-
type methods require precise setup and measuring operations 
which are time-consuming [12, 13, 14, 15]. However, the 
research relating to non-contact roundness measuring methods 
are very limited. Chen, Tsai, and Tseng [16] applied a 
                                                                                                                                          1230
gauge circle; (3) minimum circumscribing circle (MCC) or ring 
gauge circle; and (4) minimum zone circle (MZC). Among 
them, LSC is the circle that the sum of the squares of the radial 
distances of overall data points from the fitting circle is 
minimized. This approach of deriving LSC has been widely 
discussed in the past. Many techniques have been developed to 
solve LSC such as Guass-Newton method, Levenberg-
Marquardt method (Chernov and Ososkov, 1984), Landau 
algorithm (Landau, 1987), and (Spath, 1996). Therefore, in this 
study we merely focus on solving the three nonlinear 
constrained problems, MIC, MCC, and MZC. 
A. MIC model 
The MIC circle (or called plug gauge circle) is defined as 
the largest diameter contained by the circular profile as shown 
in Figure 1. According to the definition, the center coordinates 
(xc, yc) and radius R can be estimated, for which all the 
measured points are exterior to this circle. Given a set of data 
points P = {pi = (xi ,yi), i = 1, 2, ..., N} which represents the 
profile of a workpiece under a machine vision system, the MIC 
model is formulated as a nonlinear constrained optimization 
problem as following: 
 
( ) ( )
1
2 2 2
  
: ,  1,2,...,
         ;     
         ;     
         
i c i c
L U
L U
L U
Maximize R
st x x y y R i N
R R R
x x x
y y y
⎫⎪⎪⎡ ⎤
− + − ≥ = ⎪⎣ ⎦ ⎪≤ ≤ ⎬⎪≤ ≤ ⎪⎪≤ ≤ ⎪⎭
 (13) 
where RL, xL and yL are the lower bounds of R, xc and yc; RU, xU 
and yU are the upper bounds of R; xc and yc are the estimated 
center of MIC. After resolving the problem, the roundness error 
of MIC, eMIC, is estimated by measuring the maximal peak-to-
valley deviation between the given data and the fitting circle as 
below. 
 
12 2 2
1,2,...,
max { [( ) ( ) ] }MIC i i c i ci Ne e x x y y R== = − + − −  (14) 
B. MCC mdel 
Opposite to MIC, the MCC method is to circumscribe the 
given set of measured points, P, using a minimum circle, as 
shown in Figure 2. Based on the derived center point and radius 
of MCC, this method obtains the minimum circular zone that 
encloses all the measured point. Therefore, the MCC model can 
be formulated as follows. 
 
( ) ( )
1
2 2 2
  
: ,   1, 2,...,
;     
 ;     
i c i c
L U
L U
L U
Minimum R
st x x y y R i N
R R R
x x x
y y y
⎫⎪⎪⎡ ⎤
− + − ≤ = ⎪⎣ ⎦ ⎪≤ ≤ ⎬⎪≤ ≤ ⎪⎪≤ ≤ ⎪⎭
 (15) 
     
 
Accordingly, its roundness error, eMCC, is measured as 
 
12 2 2
1,2,...,
max { [( ) ( ) ] }MIC i i c i ci Ne e R x x y y== = − − + −  (16) 
C. MZC mdel 
The MZC circle is to determine a pair of concentric circles 
(C1 and C2) which contain all the measured points with the 
minimum radius separation as illustrated in Figure 3.  Its 
mathematical form is formulated as 
 
( ) ( )
( ) ( )
1 2
1
2 2 2
1
1
2 2 2
2
1 2
1 2
  
:
,   1, 2,...,
0
, ;     
 ;     
i c i c
i c i c
L U
L U
L U
Minimum R R
st x x y y R
x x y y R i N
R R
R R R R
x x x
y y y
− ⎫⎪⎪⎡ ⎤
− + − ≤ ⎪⎣ ⎦ ⎪⎪⎡ ⎤
− + − ≥ = ⎪⎣ ⎦ ⎪
− ≥ ⎬⎪≤ ≤ ⎪⎪≤ ≤ ⎪≤ ≤ ⎪⎪⎪⎭
 (17) 
where R1 and R2 are the radii of C1 and C2, respectively and 
share the center positioned at (xc, yc). The roundness error is the 
minimal radial separation, which is defined as 
 1 2MZCe R R= −  (18) 
IV. THE PROPOSED MEASURING PROCEDURE 
In the proposed method, we apply the particle swarm 
optimization to solve MIC, MCC and MZC under a machine 
 
eMCC R 
(xc, yc)
 
(xc, yc)
R
eMIC
 
Figure 1.  The MIC model. Figure 2.  The MCC model. 
Figure 3.  The MZC model.  
C1
C2R1
R2
(xc, yc)
eMZC
eMZC
                                                                                                                                          1232
TABLE I.  THE CORRESPONDING PARAMETERS OF THE EXPERIMENTS 
a. Xmax is the maximum value of the given data;  
b. Xrange is the interval between the maximum and minimum value of the given data. 
 
To verify the impact of parameters such as inertia weight, 
maximum velocity, and the number of particles, to the 
performance of the five particle swarm optimization methods, 
the experimental design was conducted with thirty repetitive 
runs for each combination. In this paper, we only present the 
experimental results of the MIC, as shown in Table II. It can be 
seen in Table II that setting the maximum velocity as 20 and 
the inertia weight as 0.6 reaches the fastest and the excellent 
optimum solution. It is no doubt that the larger of the number 
of the particles, the longer processing time of roundness 
measurement required. In particular, the results also show that 
setting higher value of maximum velocity and inertia weight 
did not improve the performance of optimization dramatically. 
Overall, the set up of the parameters was an important factor 
which directly affected the accuracy and efficiency of the 
roundness measurement result; especially the maximum 
velocity and inertia weight were the most influential factor. 
TABLE II.  EXPERIMENTAL RESULT OF MIC 
Methods Parameter X  σ T 
Vmax Vmax=20 Population=20 195.5407 2.0E-06 1.94 
Inertia Weight Weight=0.6 Population=40 3764.7603 4.7E-03 0.85 
Constriction 
Factor 
Vmax=100000 
Population=20 
K=0.729844 
195.5407 0.0 2.37 
Guaranteed 
Convergence 
Vmax=20 
Weight=0.5 
Sc = 15 
Fc = 5 
13825.1092 2.1E-03 1.26 
Inertia Weight 
+ Vmax 
Vmax=20 
Weight=0.6 
Population=20 
195.5407 0.0 1.17 
 
VI. CONCLUSION 
This paper presents a PSO-based roundness measuring 
method to calculate MIC, MCC and MZC under a machine 
vision system. We conducted an experimental design to derive 
the best setup of PSO’s. As a final, four practical applications 
of the proposed method are presented.  In general, we may 
conclude: (a) the combination of inertia weight and Vmax PSO 
method offers excellent optimum solutions and faster speed 
than other four PSO methods; (b) the proposed PSO-based 
method outperforms in quality of solutions; (c) incorporating 
the proposed method with a machine vision is feasible and 
applicable to various practical uses. However, this study does 
not consider the issues of partial or discontinuous perimeters, 
which will be left for future study. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This research was supported by the National Science 
Council of Taiwan for the project NSC99-2221-E-324-032. 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] R. C. Eberhart and J. Kennedy, “A new optimizer using particle swarm 
theory,” Proceedings of the Sixth International Symposium on 
Micromachine and Human Science, pp.9–43, 1995. 
[2] J. Salerno, “Using the particle swarm optimization technique to train a 
recurrent neural model,” IEEE International Conference on Tools with 
Artificial Intelligence, pp.45–49, 1997. 
[3] R. C. Eberhart and Y. Shi, “Particle swarm optimization: developments, 
applications and resources,” Proceedings of the IEEE Congress on 
Evolutionary Computation, ICEC 1, pp.81–86, 2001. 
[4] K. P. Wang, L. Huang, C. G. Zhou, and W. Pang, “Particle swarm 
optimization for traveling salesman problem,” Proceedings of 
International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, 
pp.1583–1585, 2003. 
[5] T.Sousa, A. Silva, and A. Neves, “Particle swarm based data mining 
algorithms for classification tasks,” Parallel Computing, vol. 30 (5-6), 
pp.767–783, 2004. 
[6] C. J. Liao, C.-T. Tseng, and P. Luarn, “A discrete version of particle 
swarm optimization for flowshop scheduling problems,” Computers and 
Operations Research, vol. 34, pp.3099–3111, 2007. 
[7] Z. J. Lee, “A novel hybrid algorithm for function approximation,” 
Expert Systems with Applications, vol. 34, pp.384–390, 2008. 
[8] D. G. Chetwynd, “Roundness measurement using limacons,” Precision 
Engineering, vol. 1, pp.137–141, 1979. 
[9] D. G. Chetwynd and P. H. Philipson, “An investigation of reference 
criteria used in roundness measurement,” Journal of Phys. E: Sci. 
Instrum., vol. 13, pp.530–537, 1980. 
[10] V. B. Le and D. T. Lee, “Out-of-Roundness problem revisited,” IEEE 
Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 13 (3), 
217–223, pp.1991. 
[11] N. Li, D. Gong, and B. Xue, “Fast Gaussian filtering algorithm for 
roundness measurements,” Journal of Nanjing University of Science and 
Technology, vol. 31 (3), pp.342–345, 2007. 
[12] W. Gao and S. Kiyono, “On-machine roundness measurement of 
cylindrical workpieces by combined three-point method,” Measurement, 
vol. 21 (4), pp.147–156, pp.1997. 
[13] E. H. K. Fung and A. P. L. Chung, “Using ARMA models to forecast 
workpiece roundness error in a turning operation,” Applied 
mathematical Modelling, vol. 23, pp.567–585, 1999.  
[14] O. Horikawa, N. Maruyama, and M. Shimada, “A low cost, high 
accuracy roundness measuring system,” Precision Engineering, vol. 25, 
pp.200–205, 2001. 
[15] C. H. Liu and W.Y. Jywe, “A four-degree-of-freedom mocrostage for 
the compensation of eccentricity of a roundness measurement machine,” 
International Journal of Machine Tools Manufacture, vol. 44, pp.365–
371, 2004. 
[16] M. C. Chen, D. M. Tsai, and H. Y. Tseng, “A Stochastic Optimization 
Approach for Roundness Measurements,” Pattern Recognition Letters, 
vol. 20, pp.707–719, 1999.  
 
 
Methods Parameters 
Vmax  Vmax values: 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, Xmax
a
, Xrange
b
 
Inertia Weight  Weight: 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9 
Constriction Factor K: 0.729844; 
Vmax: 10000, Xmax, Xrange 
Guaranteed 
Convergence Method 
Threshold parameters: (sc = fc = 5), (sc =15, fc = 5); 
Vmax value: 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, Xmax, Xrange;  
Weight: 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9 
Combination of Inertia 
Weight and Vmax  
Vmax values: 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, Xmax, Xrange;  
Weight: 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9 
表 Y04                  共 3 頁    第 2 頁 
Modeling」 
(5) Prof., IEEE Fellow, Ronald R. Yager (Iona College, USA) 
 演講主題為「On a Measure Based Granular Computing Approach to the Fusion of Uncertain 
Information」 
     
(6) Prof., IEEE Fellow, Xinghuo Yu (Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology , Australia) 
 演講主題為「Knowledge-Based Decision Support Systems and Industrial Applications」 
     
以下為本人參加該研討會的相關活動的的照片。 
    
    
12 June 2011 
Congratulations! We are pleased to inform you that your above paper has been 
accepted for presentation at the 7th International Conference on Natural Computation 
(lCNC'II) and the 8th International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge 
Discovery (FSKD' 11) to be held from 26-28 July 2011, in Shanghai, China. After you 
complete the requirements (see our detailed email), your paper will appear in 
conference proceedings and will be indexed by both EI Compendex and ISTP, as well 
as the IEEE Xplore (IEEE Conference Record Number for ICNC'l1: 18082; IEEE 
Conference Record Number for FSKD'11: 18083). The conference will feature world­
renowned keynote speakers: Philip Chen, President-Elect, IEEE Systems, Man, 
Cybernetics Society; Chin-Teng (CT) Lin, Editor-in-Chief, IEEE Transactions on 
Fuzzy Systems; Lai Loi Lei, Vice President of IEEE System, Man, Cybernetics 
Society; Witold Pedrycz, Editor-in-Chief, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and 
Cybernetics Part A: Systems and Humans; Ronald R. Yager, Editor-in-Chief, 
International Journal of Intelligent Systems (SCI); and Xinghuo Yu, Vice-President 
for Planning and Development, IEEE Industrial Electronics Society (all Fellow of the 
IEEE). 
Each paper must have 1 dedicated registration with full payment received by 21 June 
2011 for the paper to be included in the proceedings. The registration fee is US$400 or 
RMB 2600 for each paper of maximum 5 pages. Extra pages beyond 5 pages are 
charged at US$60 or RMB 400 per page. These payments must also be received by 21 
June 2011 for the paper to be included in the proceedings. 
Thank you for choosing ICNC-FSKD conferences to present your research results and 
we look forward to seeing you in July 2011, Shanghai, China. We also hope that you 
will submit your excellent work to future ICNC-FSKD conferences (further details 
will be announced later) 
y. 
I,.. 
~/ 
ICNC-FSKD 201 =1 General Chair 
Tel: +86-21-67792323 
E-mail: icnc-fskd@dhu.edu.cn 
                                                                                                                                          1229
stochastic optimization approach to develop a vision-based 
inspection system for computing the reference circles of 
maximum inscribing circle (MIC), minimum inscribing circle 
(MIC), minimum zone circle (MZC) methods. They proposed a 
hybrid optimization approach based on simulated annealing 
and Hook-Jeeves pattern search for roundness measurement.  
The objective of this study is to develop a PSO-based 
method in solving MIC, MCC and MZC problems to improve 
the efficiency and effectiveness of roundness measurement 
under a machine vision system. Suppose that the workpiece 
containing circular features be placed under a machine vision 
system without any fixture or alignment. The implementation 
and cases studies are also presented in this study. 
II. THE METHOD OF PARTICLE SWARM OPTIMIZATION 
The structure of particle swarm optimization (PSO) is 
similar to the genetic algorithm (GA), which is initialized with 
a population of random solutions and the optima is searched by 
updating generation. However, PSO updates the velocity which 
is assigned to each potential solution instead of the crossover 
and mutation operators. In a PSO algorithm, each potential 
solution, called a particle, owns a random generated velocity 
that directs the particle through the problem space by the 
fitness value. For the optimization process, each particle is 
initialized with a random position (Xid), velocity (Vid), and a 
fitness value evaluated by a predefined fitness function. Then, 
the fitness value of each particle is updated based on the local 
best value (Pid) and global best value (Pgd). The local best value 
is the best solution (fitness) that the particle has achieved in the 
current stage. The global best value is the overall best solution 
tracked by the particle swarm optimizer. After finding the local 
and global best values, the particle updates its position and 
velocity until the best solution is reached. Four widely used 
updating velocity methods of PSO are presented as following. 
A. Vmax Method 
 )()( 2211 idgdidid
old
id
new
id XPrandCXPrandCVV −××+−××+= . (1) 
 
new old new
id id idX X V= +  (2) 
 
max max
max max
 , 
        , 
id id
id id
if V V V V
else if V V V V
> =
< = −
 (3) 
where C1 and C2 are two positive constants, i represents the 
number of particles and d is the dimension in the solution 
space. In other words, C1 is the cognition parameter and 
represents the particle dependence upon the experience in the 
past; C2 is the social parameter and indicates the overall 
particles dependence upon the best experience; rand1 and rand2 
are two random numbers within [0, 1]. Vmax is a parameter 
called the maximum velocity specified by users. Particle’s 
velocities on each dimension are clamped to the Vmax. When the 
sum of accelerations causes the velocity on that dimension to 
exceed the Vmax, the velocity on that dimension is limited to the 
Vmax. Therefore, when Vmax is set too high, particles may fly 
past the excellent solution; when Vmax is set too low, particles 
may not explore sufficiently beyond locally superior regions. 
B. Inertia Weight Method 
 1 1 2 2( ) ( )
new old
id id id id gd idV W V C rand P X C rand P X= ⋅ + × × − + × × −  (4) 
 
new old new
id id idX X V= +  (5) 
where W represents the inertia weight. The purpose of the 
inertia weight is to eliminate the need of the Vmax. 
C. Constriction Factor Method 
 1 1 2 2( ) ( )
new old
id id id id gd idV K V C rand P X C rand P X⎡ ⎤= + × × − + × × −⎣ ⎦  (6) 
 
new old new
id id idX X V= +  (7) 
 
22 2 4K φ φ φ= − − −  (8) 
 
,      1 2 4C Cφ φ+= >  (9) 
where K represents the constriction factor which is the 
combination of C1 and C2 as shown in Equations (8) and (9); φ 
is the sum of the cognition and social parameter. The use of 
constriction factor is to insure the convergence of optimization 
process. 
D. Guaranteed Convergence Method 
 
new old old
id id id gdV W V X P rρ= ⋅ − + + ⋅  (10) 
 
new old new
id id idX X V= +  (11) 
 
2      #
0.5   #
                 
old
c
new old
c
old
successes s
failure f
otherwise
ρ
ρ ρ
ρ
⎧ >⎪
= >⎨⎪⎩
 (12) 
where r is a random number between -1 and 1; and ρ is the 
scaling factor which makes PSO performing a random search 
in a limited solution space surrounding the global best value.  
The initial value of ρ is usually set as 1. The terms #successes 
and #failure denote the numbers of consecutive successes and 
failure. The values sc and fc are thresholds for the number of 
consecutive successes and failure. 
III. MODELS FOR ROUNDNESS MEASUREMENT  
The roundness error is the annular space between two 
concentric circles lying in the same space. A circular workpiece 
is within tolerance if the pair of concentric circles encloses its 
profile, or the profile of the cross-section. In general, four 
criteria for reference fitting are defined as: (1) least squares 
circle (LSC); (2) maximum inscribing circle (MIC) or plug 
                                                                                                                                          1231
vision system as shown in Figure 4. Using a CCD camera, we 
derive the image of a circular object. After acquiring images, 
two image pre-processing procedures, object segmentation and 
boundary following, are used to obtain the boundary of the 
circle, P = {pi = (xi ,yi), i = 1,2, ...,N}. Therefore, the proposed 
measuring procedure proceeds in the following six steps: 
1) Particles representation: each particle represents a 
solution of the problem, which is a vector of the decision 
variables as S = {xc, yc, R}. 
2) Data preprocessing: the lower and upper bounds of the 
decision variables defined in Equations (13) and (15) are 
determined using the smallest and the largest values in the 
given points, P. The upper and lower bounds of radius is 
suggested to estimate as the following equations: 
 1.5 , 0.5U a L aR r R r= × = ×  (19) 
 ( ) ( )
1
22 2
1
1 N
a i a i a
i
r x x y y
N
=
⎡ ⎤= − + −⎣ ⎦∑  (20) 
 
1
1 N
a i
i
x x
N
=
= ∑  (21) 
 
1
1 N
a i
i
y y
N
=
= ∑  (22) 
3) Initialization of Particles: the initial velocity and 
position of individual particle, S0 = {xc0, yc0, R0}, are generated 
by a random combination of the decision variables with 
bounds. 
4) Evaluation of Particles’ Fitness: due to the MIC 
method is a nonlinear constrained optimization problem, the 
constraints are added to the objective function using penalty 
functions to evaluate relative objective function value. The use 
of this penalty techniqe transforms the constrained problems 
into unconstrained ones by penalizing infeasible solutions. For 
maximization problems MIC, the fitness function F is defined 
as follow: 
 ( ) ( ) ( )SpSfSF −=  (23) 
 ( )
⎩⎨
⎧
>
=
otherwise   0
 feasible is    when 0 S
Sp  (24) 
5) Updating Velocity and Position: For each PSO models, 
the velocity and position of particle are updated differently 
based on Equations (1)-(12) described in Section 2. 
6) Stopping Rule: The process of Steps (iv) and (v) 
proceeds until two stopping rules are reached: (1) a predefined 
maximum number of iterations (max_iter); and (2) a given 
number of consecutive iterations (con_iter) with no 
improvement in global best fitness. 
This evolutional process will eventually converge to an 
optimal solution (or approximation) of the problem such that 
the circle center (xc, yc) and radius R are obtained from the 
global best particle, Pgd.  After that, the roundness error can be 
measured accordingly. 
V. EXPERIMENT RESULTS 
The proposed method was implemented on a Personal 
Computer with a machine vision system. All the testing images 
were acquired using the Alpha-II frame grabber connected with 
a Sony HR-70 CCD camera at the resolution of 640×480 
pixels. A camera calibration procedure was precisely conducted 
in advance, and each pixel of the image was approximately 
equal to 0.39mm. 
Figure 5 shows a standard 3” circular gauge which was 
used in this experiment. This experiment was aimed to 
determine the combination of PSO’s specific parameters. The 
stopping rules of experiment were pre-determined as max_iter 
= 400 (the maximum number of iteration) and con_iter = 200 
(the number of consecutive iterations). Five different PSO 
methods, including Vmax Method, Inertia Weight Method, 
Constriction Factor Method, Guaranteed Convergence Method, 
and Combination of Inertia Weight and Vmax Methods were 
evaluated for both MIC and MCC. The positive constants C1 
and C2 are set as 2.0 for all methods and five different numbers 
of particles are set in the experiments, which are 20, 30, 40, and 
50. The other parameters of the experiments are shown in 
Table I. 
    
 
Particle 
Representation
Data Preprocessing
Initialization of 
Particles
Evaluation of
Particle’s Fitness
Update of Particles’
Velocity and Position
Stopping Rule
Calculation of
Roundness
MIC, MCC, MZC
Models
No
Yes
Image Acquisition Image Preprocessing
Figure 4.  The proposed measuring procedure. 
Figure 5.  (a ) Original image of circular gauge; (b) Image after threshold. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用啟發式方法於電腦視覺下之真圓度量測(I)
計畫主持人: 孫德修
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-324-032- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
