 2
???????????????????? 
CAM????????????? 
Application of CAM Instruments to Evaluate the Efficacy of Zen 
Meditation on Stress Relief 
 
????? NSC 95-2221-E-009-230 
????? 95? 08? 01?? 96? 7? 31? 
???? ??????????????????? 
 
ABSTRACT 
An important reformation of aging society is the emergence of telemedicine and the so-called 
eHealth during the past decade. Development of telemedicine is expected to highly reduce the 
social costs and the probability of spreading infectious diseases. Nevertheless, one important issue 
is the biomedical data collection based on handy and easily implementing instruments. 
During the past decades, energy medicine, a category of the new area CAM (complementary 
and alternative medicine) has aroused attention of clinical/medical practices due to the therapeutic 
effectiveness and its holistic theorem. A number of CAM-related instruments have been devised 
and employed even in the conventional general hospital, regardless of few scientific theories 
supporting them. However, they are easily implemented and have been proclaimed to be able to 
provide indexes reflecting such holistic characteristics as bio-energy, mentality, emotion, stress, 
stress-counter ability, etc. Consequently, CAM instruments may offer an alternative to the 
development of telemedicine and eHealth. 
Scientists have been reporting substantial findings of the effectiveness of meditation 
practice not only on improving the physiological and mental health but on treating a number of 
diseases. Accordingly, the investigator has been devoted to the study of Zen-Buddhist meditation 
for the past years.  
In this research study, we have successfully employed the CAM instruments (ARDK, 
voice-print diagnostics) to study the bio-energetic and bio-rhythmic characteristics of 
Zen-meditation practitioners, compared with those derived from conventional medical instruments. 
Keywords: Zen meditation, Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM), Bio-energetic 
Medicine, Electroencephalograph (EEG), Meridian energy, Bio-resonance, Bio-rhythm, 
Voice print, Holistic medicine. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
1. Meridian energy test? Ryodoraku theory 
The Ryodoraku theory was developed by a research group lead by Dr. Yoshio Nakatani from 1949 
to 1957. They injected a current into specific acupoints and measured the electrical response to 
investigate the meridian electrical properties of these acupoints. The electrical response was found to 
reflect the health condition and agree with traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) theory “disease can be 
diagnosed by the twelve source acupoints” (Figure 1). 
2. Instrument? ARDK 
ARDK (Automatic Reflective Diagnosis System) is a meridian diagnosis system using a 
combination of Ryodoraku theory, Chinese Meridian theory, western clinic symptoms data  and 
statistical analysis. It was developed by the Russian Central Scientific Research Institute between the 
years 1978 and 1992. Because of the research on more than 100 thousands of clinical subjects in 
Russia and more than 5 thousands of clinical subjects in Taiwan, ARDK has the precision up to 90% 
now. ARDK is a modern assistant tool helpful in detecting some health changes that indicate the risk 
of disease before it becomes symptomatic. 
 4
(2) Health Condition Ratio 
Table 1. shows 5 health condition parameters and their range of normal values. 
“Body Energy” is the average of the measurements from the 24 acupoints. A high average indicates 
excess Qi and Blood while a low average indicates a deficiency of Qi and Blood. 
“Metabolism Function” is determined from the ratio of the total of all Yin meridians divided by the 
total of all Yang meridians. A high ratio shows that the metabolism of the body is slower than normal 
while a low ratio shows that the metabolism of the body is faster than normal. 
“Mental State” is determined from the ratio of the total of all hands meridians divided by the total of 
all feet meridians. A high ratio indicates an increase in mental activities, the subject has higher mental 
stress and may have anxiety, anger and halitosis. A low ratio indicates a decrease in mental activities, 
the subject gets drowsy, their attention is not focused, their memory is poor, and their response time 
slows down, etc. 
“Musculoskeletal System” is determined from the ratio of the total of all left meridians divided by the 
total of all right meridians. The degree of balance between the Qi and Blood in the right side and left 
side of body affects the function of the musculoskeletal system. When the musculoskeletal system is 
unbalanced, there will be obstacles. The subject will feel pain or soreness in his body. 
“Autonomic Nervous System” indicates the balance condition of the autonomic nervous system, the 
higher the ratio the more unbalance the autonomic nervous systems is. There are many factors that 
may result in an imbalance in the autonomic nervous system. Generally, this is divided into internal 
causes (for example, diseases of the internal organs, endocrine disorders) and external factors (for 
example, mental stresses, pressure from work, and fatigue). Based on Traditional Chinese Medicine 
theory, this results from an imbalance of Qi and Blood in part or all of the body. An abnormality of the 
subject’s autonomic nerves possibly results in difficulty sleeping or pain. 
Table 1. The items of Health Condition Ratio 
Item Normal 
Body Energy 25≤ Value ≤55 
Metabolism Function 0.8≤ Ratio ≤1.2 
Mental State 0.8≤ Ratio ≤1.2 
Musculoskeletal System  0.8≤ Ratio ≤1.2 
Autonomic Nervous System Ratio ≤2 
 
(3) System Reports 
Table 2. shows the condition of human body systems and their standard range of values. The unit of 
each item is percentage, the higher the value the higher the probability to get problems in that system. 
The last item “System Reports” is the rough value representing the overall items. 
 
Table 2. The items of System Reports 
Item Standard 
Body energy (BE) 
Mental state (MS) 
Autonomic Nervous System 
(ANS) 
Thyroid Gland Function (TGF) 
Value ≤25% : Normal ÆBest 
Value ≤50% : Normal ÆGood 
50 < Value ≤75% : Abnormal ÆNot bad 
 6
Musculoskeletal System (P <0.01) was higher in the experimental group compared with the control 
group, i.e. M1>C1 for these two factors (Figure 4). Group comparison for Metabolism Function 
demonstrated a significant increase in the control group compared with the meditation group. ARDK 
estimates of 5 health conditions revealed no significant difference for the two groups after meditation 
as well as rest state 
Body Energy is the average of the measurements from the 24 acupoints. A high average indicates 
excess Qi and Blood while a low average indicates a deficiency of Qi and Blood. It is evident that 
meditators exhibit a better performance of Body Energy than the control subjects. This may be due to 
the regular practice of meditation that produces the long-term changes with greater body energy. A 
decline of Body Energy after meditation may be related to the deep relaxed and calm state with less 
energy consumed. 
Metabolism Function is determined from the ratio of the total of all Yin meridians divided by the 
total of all Yang meridians. A high ratio for the C1 shows that the metabolism of the body for 
non-meditators is slower than that for the meditators in the baseline state. 
The result of Musculoskeletal System indicates the balance condition of all left meridians and all 
right meridians. Measurements showed that more meditators are bilateral than control subjects. In 
addition, meditation can cause the increased activity of the Qi and Blood in the right side of body, 
while the control subjects remain about unchanged before and after the rest. It is hypothesized that the 
imbalance of the Musculoskeletal System caused by meditation is associated with the posture (left or 
right lotus posture).  
Finally, the ratio of Autonomic Nervous System after meditation increased after meditation. In 
general, meditators possess a more adaptive pattern of stress response than controls (Telles, 1995). 
Previous studies showed that autonomic activities during meditation are characterized by decreased 
sympathetic activity (Delmonte, 1985, Walton et al., 1995 and Young and Taylor, 1998) and increased 
parasympathetic activity (Kubota et al., 2001 and Young and Taylor, 1998). Although there are no 
definite connections between autonomic nervous system based on Traditional Chinese Medicine 
theory and on modern medicine, meditation strengthens and enhances the ability to cope with stress. 
Ultimately, the ratio of Mental State remains almost unchanged for both groups in the current study.  
 
Table 3. Mean, standard deviation and the number of subjects whose 5 health condition parameters are 
within the range of normal values 
 Normal 
subjects Body Energy 
Metabolism 
Function Mental State
Musculoskel
etal System 
Autonomic 
Nervous 
System 
before 14 14 8 13 7 
Mean± std 43.36 ± 12.23 1.07 ± 0.24 1.21 ± 0.31 0.93 ± 0.22 2.44 ± 1.26 
after 13 10 10 11 7 
Exp 
Group 
(18) 
Mean± std 34.11 ± 17.31 1.16 ± 0.33 1.13 ± 0.37 0.82 ± 0.30 2.89 ±1.29 
before 8 9 6 4 4 
Mean± std 31.06 ± 18.00 1.25 ± 0.30 1.24 ± 0.47 0.72 ± 0.24 3.24 ± 1.55 
after 11 7 7 7 5 
Ctrl 
Group 
(17) 
Mean± std 28.88 ± 12.90 1.27 ± 0.30 1.22 ± 0.36 0.75 ± 0.22 2.99 ± 1.40 
 8
before after
25
55
Body Energy
before after
0.8
1.2
Metabolism Function
before after
0.8
1.2
Musculoskeletal System
before after
0
2
Autonomic Nervous System
 
Figure 4  Mean value of the items of health condition that showed between- and within-group 
changes. 
 
 
2  System Reports 
Mean, standard deviation and the number of subjects whose parameters of system reports are 
within the range of normal values are showed in Table 4. Figure 5 is the mean probabilities of system 
reports for 18 meditators and 17 control subjects during the two states. In the system reports, the items 
in which more than a half of the group subjects were in the range of the normal health are Body 
Energy, Mental State, Autonomic Nervous System, Thyroid Gland Function and Metabolism Function. 
In the baseline state, experimental group showed an average of overall better health condition than the 
Control group, especially in BE, DS, RS, IS (p<0.01), ANS, TGF, LF, ES and SR (p<0.05). After 
30-min of meditation or rest, experimental group presented better health condition than the Control 
group in IS, US (p<0.01), RS, SR, CS and ES (p<0.05). 
The effects of 30-min meditation resulted in a significant increase of probabilities in five items - 
ANS, TGF, LF, RS and SR for the experimental subjects while the effects of rest were not apparent 
for the control group except for an increase in CS. This tendency means to get problems in that system 
which is on the contrary of our supposition. The differences of other items did not reach significance 
in both groups because of highly individual variability.  
The ARDK parameters of System Reports as well as Health Condition Ratio are a general idea of 
the overall body system and show large individual differences. Even so, our results imply that (1) 
extended practice of meditation may cause a long-term effect on the participants to have better health 
condition and (2) meditation exhibits greater influence on the short-term state of body system than a 
rest does since nonmeditators keep themselves in a state of physical stability after taking a rest.  
 
Table 4. Mean (standard deviation) and the number of subjects whose parameters of system reports are 
within the range of normal values 
Ctrl 
Exp 
 10
C2>M2 - - - - - - - * * ** * - - ** - * 
M2>M1 - - * * - * - * - - - - - - - * 
C2>C1 - - - - - - - - - - ** - - - - - 
Figure 5  The mean of System reports for both groups before and after the meditation or rest.  
*P <0.05, **P <0.01  
REFERENCES 
Delmonte M.M., Effects of expectancy on physiological responsivity in novice meditators, Biol. 
Psychol. 21 (1985), pp. 107–121.  
Kubota Y., Sato W., Toichi M., et al., Frontal midline theta rhythm is correlated with cardiac 
autonomic activities during the performance of an attention demanding meditation procedure, Brain 
Res. Cogn. Brain Res. 11 (2001), pp. 281–287. 
Telles S, Nagarathna R & Nagendra HR. Autonomic Changes During "OM" Meditation. Indian J 
Physiol Pharmacology 39(4):418-20, Oct 1995  
Walton K.G., Pugh N.D., Gelderloos P. and Macrae P., Stress reduction and preventing hypertension: 
preliminary support for a psychoneuroendocrine mechanism, J. Altern. Complement. Med. 1 (1995), 
pp. 263–283.  
Young J.D. and Taylor E., Meditation as a voluntary hypometabolic state of biological estivation, 
News Physiol. Sci. 13 (1998), pp. 149–153. 
 
 
  12
 
????ARDK 
ARDK???? 
 
?(??) 
 
??  (??) 
 
?(??) 
 
?? (??) 
 
??(??) 
 
??(??) 
 
? (??) 
 
? (??) 
 
? (??) 
 
?? (??) 
?(??) 
 
?(??) 
 
 
ARDK?????? 
  
(?)????????? (?)????????? 
