 I
 
摘要 
 
本研究利用PC1D模擬軟體來探討單晶矽太陽電池輸出功率以期求得最佳化所需要考
慮的結構參數。所探討的結構參數包括基板厚度、背面場摻雜濃度、少數載子之生命活期、
表面復合速率、基極區之電阻率、接觸電阻、表面粗糙化、正面抗反射塗佈、遮蔽因子、
以及背面反射鏡等。本研究模擬結果顯示，面積為 10x10cm-2之太陽電池可得到最佳化的輸
出效率達 23.2%。本研究實驗上採用快速熱處理化學氣相沉積法（RT-CVD）形成了鍺/單
晶矽異質接面。 
 
關鍵字：單晶矽太陽電池、表面粗糙化、抗反射塗佈、鍺/單晶矽異質接面 
 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
In this work, the dependence of the photovoltaic performance on the structural parameters in 
a single-crystalline Si solar cell has been investigated with the PC1D simulation software. Cell 
parameters such as the substrate thickness, the doping concentration of the back surface field, the  
minority carrier lifetime, the surface recombination rate, the resistivity of the base region, the 
contact resistance, the surface texturing, the front surface anti-reflective coating, the shading 
factor, and the back surface reflector have been examined to improve the cell efficiency. The 
optimal simulation result of the cell efficiency is 23.2% with a cell area of 10x10 cm-2. 
Experimentally, the Ge/sc-Si hetero-junction has been formed by using the rapid-thermal CVD 
(RT-CVD) method. 
 
Keywords: Single-crystalline Si solar cell, surface texturing, anti-reflective coating, Ge/sc-Si 
hetero-junction. 
 
 2
Sp = 1x106 cm/s, rear surface recombination rates Sn = Sp = 1x105 cm/s, and light source 
excitation AM1.5G. 
Fig. 2 shows the cell efficiency improves when additional structural parameter is incorporated 
into the basic cell structure. An optimal efficiency of 23.2% has been obtained if the structural 
parameters are optimized. As silicon is a relatively poor absorber of light, thinner silicon 
substrate tends to produce lower efficiency due to lower short-circuit current [4,5]. Fig. 3 shows 
the effects of the wafer thickness to the efficiency, the Voc, the Jsc, and the fill factor of the basic 
p-n solar cell and the cell with BSF structure. Fig. 4 shows the simulated output base current and 
base power of the solar cell as a function of the base voltage. The results show that the optimal 
output of the solar cell is Jsc = -38.87 mA/cm2, Voc = 0.7593, FF = 0.786, and Pout = 2.32W. 
Experimentally, the Ge/sc-Si hetero-junction has been formed by using the rapid-thermal 
CVD (RT-CVD) method, as shown in Fig. 5. 
 
 
Conclusions 
 
The dependence of the photovoltaic performance on the structural parameters in a sc-Si solar 
cell has been investigated with the PC1D simulation software in this work. The result shows that 
it is possible to achieve a conversion efficiency of 23.2% through the optimization of the cell 
structure without any increase in process complexity in the production line. Experimentally, the 
Ge/sc-Si hetero-junction has been formed by using the RT-CVD method. 
 
 
Acknowledgement 
 
This work is financially supported by the National Science Council of the R.O.C. under Contract 
NSC96-2221-E-224-027. 
 
 
References 
 
[1] J. Szlufcik, “Low-Cost Industrial Technologies of Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells,” 
Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 85, No. 5, pp. 711-715, May 1997. 
[2] J. Zhao, A. Wang, P. P. Altermatt, S. R. Wenham, and M. A. Green, “24% efficient PERL 
silicon solar cell: Recent improvement in high efficiency silicon cell research,”Sol. Energy 
Mat. Sol. Cells, Vol. 41/42, pp. 87-99, 1996. 
[3] P. Campbell, S. R. Wenham, and M. A. Green, “Light trapping and reflection control with 
tilted pyramids and grooves,” Conf. Rec. 20th IEEE Photovolt. Special. Conf. (Las Vegas, 
NV), pp. 713, Sept. 1998. 
[4] Bruton, T.M.; Roberts, S.; Heasman, K.C.; Russell, R.; Warta, W.; Glunz, S.W.; Dicker, J.; 
Knobloch, J. , “Prospects for high efficiency silicon solar cells in thin Czochralski wafers 
   
(a)                                 (b) 
   
(c)                                 (d) 
 
Fig. 3. The effects of the wafer thickness to (a) efficiency, (b) Voc, (c) Jsc, (d) fill factor of the 
basic p-n cell and the cell with BSF structure. 
 
 
Fig. 4. The simulated base current and base power of the cell as a function of base voltage. 
 4
