 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
微波雙頻濾波器的合成與實現 
Synthesis and Realization of Microwave Dual-Band Filters 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-006-043 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：蔡智明 成功大學電腦與通信工程研究所 
計畫參與人員：李鴻銘，范國佑，李維祥 成功大學電腦與通信工程研究所 
 
中文摘要 
 
在本計畫中，我們研究兩種新型的分散式電路
之雙頻濾波器設計。我們利用 open stub 串聯及並聯
的方式使得諧振器具有雙頻的特性。另外，我們亦
探討兩種適合的倒轉器結構，由於可與相鄰的諧振
器結合，因此整個濾波器結構能夠更為緊實。相關
的理論分析及設計步驟在此報告中有詳細的討
論，最後我們利用兩個雙頻濾波器設計，以實驗結
果加以驗證。 
 
關鍵詞：雙頻、濾波器、射頻、微波。 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
In this project, new designs of dual-band filter 
realized by distributed circuits are studied. Series and 
parallel open stubs are used as the resonators to fulfill 
the dual-band characteristics. Two dual-band inverters 
are proposed, which can be easily merged with 
adjacent resonators to reduce the circuit size. All the 
theoretical analysis and design procedures are 
discussed in detail and have been successfully verified 
by experiment results. 
 
Keywords: Dual-band, filter, RF, microwave. 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
In recent years, dual-band wireless LAN and 
portable telephones become quite popular due to the 
need of wireless mobile communications. Dual-band 
filters become key components in the front end of 
these communication systems and have been studied 
in several literatures [1]-[5]. Intuitively, a dual-band 
filter can be implemented by the combination of two 
filters which are designed for different passbands [1]. 
However, this not only requires twice the size of a 
single-band filter but additional combining networks. 
Thus an integrated filter structure with dual-band 
characteristics is desired. Lately, stepped-impedance 
resonators were used in dual-band filter designs, 
because they have the dual-band property and their 
harmonic frequencies are tunable [2]-[4]. Dual-band 
filters realized by resonators consisting of three open 
stubs in parallel were also proposed [5], where three 
transmission zeros were created by the open stubs to 
separate the two passbands. In all of these dual-band 
filter designs, the control of the two passband central 
frequencies has been studied. While dual-band 
resonators are needed to create two different 
passbands, dual-band coupling structures or inverters 
between resonators are required to establish the 
bandwidth for each band. However, only relatively 
few researches provided solutions on this. For 
example, a dual-band coupling structure was proposed 
in [3], which could be tuned for the required coupling 
coefficients for two different frequencies. Therefore, 
two passbands could be realized with required 
bandwidths. 
In the study of Quendo et al. [5], a dual-band 
resonator was realized by three parallel open stubs. 
The structure is an extension of the resonator 
composed of two open stubs in parallel, which was 
used in the single-band filter design [6], [7]. However, 
it was found that only two open stubs are enough to 
behave as a resonator with dual-band properties, 
including its two resonant frequencies and two slope 
parameters. In this project, new dual-band resonators 
with open stubs in series and parallel are thoroughly 
studied. Then two structures of dual-band inverter are 
proposed, which can be easily combined with the 
adjacent resonators. The design procedure of 
dual-band filters could then follow the classical 
 
Fig. 1.  (a) Dual-band resonator with parallel open 
stubs, and (b) type I filter. 
 
Fig. 2. (a) Dual-band resonator with series open stubs, 
and (b) type II filter. 
 3
III. Dual-Band Inverter for Type I Filter 
 
A simple quarter-wavelength transmission line is 
usually used as an inverter, however, it is only suitable 
for single-band filter designs. For the inverter to have 
required parameters at two bands, the structure of a 
transmission line with additional open stubs attached 
to its ends is proposed. The inverter structure with 
parallel open stubs is shown in Fig. 3, which can be 
applied to type I filter. The characteristic admittances 
of the open stubs and the transmission line are 1iY  
and 2iY  respectively. The corresponding electrical 
lengths are 1iθ  and 2iθ , which are all defined at 1f . 
Since the inverter is configured as a symmetrical 
circuit, only the parameters A and B of the ABCD 
matrix of the inverter are needed to uniquely define 
the circuit. The parameters A and B at 1f  can be 
obtained as 
 2 1 2 1 2cos ( ) tan sini i i i iA Y Yθ θ θ= −  (20) 
 2 2sin i iB j Yθ= . (21) 
The ABCD matrix of an ideal J-inverter is expressed 
by 
10
0
j
J
jJ
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
. 
Four simultaneous equations for solving the 
parameters of the dual-band inverter are then written 
as follows: 
 2 1 2 1 2cos ( ) tan sin 0i i i i iY Yθ θ θ− =  (22) 
 2 1 2 1 2cos( ) ( ) tan( )sin( ) 0i i i i ia Y Y a aθ θ θ− =  (23) 
 2 2sin 1i iY Jθ =  (24) 
 2 2sin( ) 1i ia Y Jθ = . (25) 
It is found that the solutions of 1iθ  and 2iθ  are 
 1
2 or 
1 1i a a
π πθ = + +  (26) 
 2 1i a
πθ = + , (27) 
The electrical lengths of the open stubs, 1iθ , will be 
the same as those of the resonators of the filters that 
have identical absolute bandwidths at both bands, and 
they can be easily merged together. Beyond this 
special case, the electrical lengths 1iθ  will also be 
close to those of the adjacent resonators and they can 
be approximately combined. 
 
 
 
IV. Realization of Type II Filter Using  
Coupled Lines 
 
A. Coupled-Line Sections in the First and Last Stages 
 
The major purpose of the coupled lines in the first 
and last stages of the filter is impedance 
transformation. To increase the feasibility of the 
coupled lines, asymmetrical structures are chosen for 
the outer sections of the dual-band filters. The 
equivalent circuit of coupled lines with the two 
diagonal ports opened is shown in Fig. 4. The even- 
and odd-mode characteristic impedances are defined 
with the assumption that the lines are driven by 
identical magnitude of currents, and the detailed 
calculations are discussed in [9]. 
The initial equivalent circuit of the coupled lines in 
the outer section is shown in Fig. 5(a), where n  is 
the turn ratio defined by 1 21 Z Z′ ′+ . By using the 
Kuroda identity, its final equivalent circuit can be 
obtained and is shown in Fig. 5(b). This equivalent 
circuit leads to the form of type II filter, with an 
additional transmission line existing between the 
resonator and termination. The impedance of the 
transmission line is then set to equal that of the 
termination, and the necessary condition can be 
derived as 
 0 1 2R Z Z′ ′= + , (28) 
which can yield the source impedance of the 
equivalent circuit as 22 0( )Z R′ . Since the equivalent 
dual-band resonator also needs to satisfy (12)-(15), the 
electrical lengths of the open stubs can be first 
determined by (18) and (19). The derived 1θ  and 2θ  
are then substituted into (12) and (14) with 
 2 0 21 3
0
( )Z R ZZ Z
R
′ ′−′= +  (29) 
 
2
0 12
1
0 1
( ) g gZx
R
′= Δ  (30) 
 
Fig. 3. Structure of dual-band inverter for type I filter. 
 
Fig. 4. Equivalent circuit of asymmetrical coupled lines 
with two diagonal ports opened. 
 
 
Fig. 5. Equivalent circuits of coupled lines in the outer 
section of the filter. 
 5
 
Fig. 9.  Circuit parameters of the second filter example. 
  
  
  
  
 
Fig. 10. (a) Circuit configuration of the second filter 
example, and (b) its passband and (c) out-of-band 
simulated and measured results. 
  
  
  
 
Fig. 8. (a) Circuit configuration and parameters of the 
first filter example, and (b) its passband and (c) 
out-of-band simulated and measured results. 
For the second design example, a third-order 
Chebyshev filter with 0.1 dB ripple was also designed 
based on type II filter. The central frequencies of the 
first and second passbands are selected to be 2.45 GHz 
and 5.25 GHz for the wireless LAN application. The 
relative bandwidths are 5% and 4.5% for the two 
passbands respectively. The filter was fabricated on 
the Rogers RO3003 substrate, with a thickness of 0.51 
mm, a dielectric constant of 3, and a loss tangent of 
0.0013. The equivalent circuit of the filter design with 
its circuit parameters is shown in Fig. 9. Dual-band 
transformers [10] are added to the filter input and 
output for the purpose of decreasing the couplings of 
the exterior coupled-line sections. The parameters of 
the two coupled-line sections in the middle stages are 
given in Table II. The circuit configuration of the filter 
