 2
Fig. 2 shows the cross section of one complete sensing channel on our chip. The front and rear symmetric 
waveguides with upper claddings can prevent the light leaking out when we add a high-index O-ring or an additional 
liquid-flowing channel structure on it. The recess structure in the sensing region can provide liquid-flowing channels 
for injecting the sample solutions in it. We set four pairs of channels with different channel widths of Wc = 20, 
60,100,140 µm, and eight channels were designed in total.  
In the lateral y direction, the light is confined by the ridge structure, which can avoid the scattering loss caused 
by the rough sidewall of the channels after etching process of the core layer. The threshold channel width for 
supporting the lateral single-mode propagation also can be increased. Based on the effective-index method, the 
channel width needs to be narrower than 35 µm to support single-mode propagation.  
All the devices were fabricated in the Nano Facility Center (NFC) at National Chiao Tung University. In the 
fabrication process of the sensor chip, we used the PECVD (belonging to National Nano Device Laboratories and 
located in NFC) to grow SiO2 and Si3N4 layers, the e-gun evaporation to coat MgF2 layers, and the sputtering to coat 
Au metal layer. Fig. 4 shows the flow chart of fabrication process of the ARROW-B SPR sensor chip. Fig. 4 shows 
the typical SEM photos of the cross section of the fabricated chip. 
 
 
Fig. 1  Sketch diagram of the SPR sensor chip with a liquid-flowing channel. 
 
 
Fig. 2  Cross section of an ARROW-B SPR sensing channel on the sensor chip. 
 
 
 4
  
Fig. 4  SEM photo of the cross section of the fabricated chip. 
 
CHARACTERIZATION OF THE SENSOR CHIP 
The setup of the optical measurement system and liquid-flowing system for testing the ARROW-B SPR sensor 
chip is shown in Fig. 5. Fig. 6 shows photos of the measurement system.  
 
Fig. 5  The setup of the optical measurement system and liquid-flowing system. 
   
Fig. 6  Parts of the measurement system. 
In the optical system, we used a He-Ne laser with the wavelength λ= 0.633 µm as the light source. The system 
first filtered out the TE-polarized wave by a polarizer, then the remaining TM-polarized light beam was focused to 
the input port of the waveguide channel by an objective lens (20X). At the output port, the output beam was focused 
