 1
1. Abstract 
We applied tensile and compressive constraints during annealing processes to investigate the 
effect of stress on the crystallinity and ferroelectric properties of SrBi2Ta2O9 thin films. Both the 
tensile and compressive stresses exerted pronounced effects on the volume fraction of the 
pyrochlore phase and the grain growth mechanisms of the SBT films. The effects of the stress 
correlated with the change of crystallization temperatures. Because the stress applied to an SBT 
sample during its crystallization led to the creation of distinct microstructures and constituted 
phases of the film, our SBT samples exhibited distinct ferroelectric behavior under various stressing 
conditions. 
 
2. Introduction 
There is great interest in using ferroelectric thin films in nonvolatile memory device 
applications. Because ferroelectric films are usually deposited on top of substrates, several 
stress-related problems may occur from lattice mismatch or distinct thermal expansion during 
thermal processing. As a result, the effect that stress exerts on ferroelectric properties has become 
the subject of a number of recent investigations. Although several reports have discussed the effects 
of residual stress on the ferroelectrics, few studies have been performed to investigate the influence 
of stress on the structures and electrical properties of polycrystalline ferroelectrics during annealing. 
We applied an external mechanical constraint to provide the tensile/compressive stresses to a 
strontium bismuth tantalite (SrBi2Ta2O9; SBT) film during its crystallization processing to 
investigate the effect on the crystallinity and ferroelectric properties. 
 
3. Sample Preparation  
The MOD-derived SBT thin films were deposited on top of Pt (150 nm)/Ta (20 nm)/SiO2/Si 
substrates. The spin-coated wafers were subjected to dry at 150 °C, then pyrolysis at 400 °C for 10 
min. The desired thicknesses of SBT film about 200, 400, and 600 nm were achieved through 
multiple repetitions of the coating and heating process. A bending holder was employed to provide 
the constraint onto the SBT film during the furnace annealing process. The magnitude of the 
constraint strain applied to the specimen was also confirmed using a strain gauge; the tensile and 
compressive strains applied in this study were 0.08 and 0.1%, respectively. The as-deposited SBT 
film might be pliable to accommodate the external stress through structural relaxation, therefore, the 
SBT film was first densified and solidified through a RTA process at 750 °C for 5 s in an O2 
ambient. Subsequently, the specimens were constrained by the holder and annealed at 730–810 °C 
for 40 min in air. A sample that was annealed without constraint was also prepared as a reference. 
Finally, the specimens were released from bending holder to determine their physical and 
ferroelectric properties.  
 
4. Results and Discussion 
A. Residual stress of 200nm SBT thin film 
The first row of Table 1 summarizes the measured residual stresses in SBT films subjected to 
the various constraint conditions. After furnace annealing at 750 °C and cooling to room 
temperature, the reference SBT film exhibited a residual tensile stress of 282.5 MPa. The residual 
tensile stress increased (to 512.3 MPa) when the SBT film had been placed under a tensile 
constraint, but it decreased (to –146.3 MPa) in the compressively constrained film. The particularly 
interesting is determining the stress conditions of the SBT film during crystallization; these values 
were obtained by subtracting the thermal stress from the residual stress, as illustrated in the follow. 
The thermal stress σ of the combined bottom electrode/SBT stack was derived from the evolution of 
the wafer curvatures before and after annealing process with a laser reflectance facility. Assuming 
the thickness of the film tf is much less than that of the substrate ts, the following equation is 
obtained to express the stress of thin film [1]. 
 3
annealing, the ratio of the BLS phase increased greatly, regardless of the stress conditions. 
Although XRD spectra indicated that the films were composed mainly of the BLS phase, secondary 
pyrochlore phases also existed. Figure 1(b) presents a plot of the integrated intensity ratios of the 
pyrochlore (222) and BLS (115) reflections (Ip(222)/[IBLS(115) + Ip(222)]) as a function of the annealing 
temperature. Increasing the annealing temperature led to an increase in the ratio of the pyrochlore 
phase. This result was possibly due to the rapid evaporation of elemental Bi at elevated annealing 
temperature. Furthermore, regardless of the annealing temperature, the SBT films subjected to 
tensile constraint possessed relatively highest amounts of the pyrochlore phase among the three 
samples; the lowest volume fraction of the pyrochlore phase occurred for the compressed samples. 
Because the theoretical density of the pyrochlore phase (7.75 g cm–3) was less than that of the BLS 
phase (8.83 g cm–3) [6], the application of a tensile stress might be beneficial for the growth of the 
pyrochlore phase. In addition, the stress conditions might do some impact to the elemental 
distribution in SBT as well as its constituted phases. Further investigation is needed to identify this 
perspective. The non-ferroelectric pyrochlore phase is a terminal phase, i.e., it could not be 
transformed into the BLS phase upon further heat treatment. Besides, the ferroelectric properties 
deteriorated after the formation of the pyrochlore phase. Although the pyrochlore-to-BLS ratios 
changed under the various stress conditions, the XRD results indicated that the texture of the BLS 
phase was barely influenced by the stress applied, even when the BLS phase exhibited an 
anisotropic structure. 
 
C. Surface morphology of 200nm SBT  
The stress also had some significant impacts on the microstructures of the SBT films. Figure 
2(a) presents a FESEM image of the RTA 7505s SBT film, which exhibits a nano-grain structure. 
From a comparison with the XRD results, the nano-grain regions were believed to comprise both 
fluorite and not-fully-grown BLS phases [7]. When the SBT films were further annealed at 810 °C, 
they exhibited distinct microstructures that correlated closely with the stress states to which they 
were subjected. As indicated in Figure 2(b), the SBT film that was annealed without constraint 
(reference) developed a structure consisting of numerous blocky grains and some nano-grains. 
Based on these plan-view FESEM micrographs, an image analysis software (Image J, National 
Instruments) was employed to determine the average grain size of blocky grains and the volume 
fraction of nano-grains in each sample [8]. An average of over 150 individual grains showed the 
grain diameters of about 68, 96, and 83 nm for the reference (Fig. 2(b)), tension-constrained (Fig. 
2(c)) and compression-constrained (Fig. 2(d)) SBT, respectively. The volume fractions of 
nano-grains in SBT under various constraint conditions as a function of crystallization temperatures 
are illustrated in Fig. 2(e). Although these blocky grains became bigger in the constrained SBT 
films, the volume fraction of nano-grains in the compressed SBT film appeared to be higher than 
that in the reference films. These results were further confirmed by the thicker SBT films (400nm). 
The stress had similar impacts on the microstructures of these 400nm SBT films. Regardless of film 
thickness, tensile constraints led to a more uniformly large grain structure. On the contrary, 
comparing with reference, the compressive ones exhibited a higher ratio of nano-grains. The 
nano-sized grains should be mostly composed of the not-fully-grown BLS grain and second 
pyrochlore phase structure [9]. When crystallization temperatures increased, the BLS grains grew 
accompanying with the increase of pyrochlore ratio. As a result, the pyrochlore phase became the 
main part of nano-grains in the SBT film at elevated annealing temperatures. However, the 
application of the compressive stress seemed to inhibit the growth of nano-crystallized BLS grains, 
although the formation of pyrochlore phase was suppressed upon these conditions compared to the 
reference ones. It has been reported that the electrical properties of ferroelectrics depend strongly on 
their grain size. When the BLS grain is smaller than certain critical size, the ferroelectrics only have 
the weak ferroelectric behaviors. Nevertheless, other factors also influence the ferroelectric 
properties of SBT, as we discuss below. 
 
 5
application of compressive stress, hence, the compressed specimen exhibited the better ferroelectric 
properties.  
 
5. Summary  
In summary, the influence that stress applied during the annealing process has on the crystallinity 
and ferroelectric properties of SBT films was investigated. Below 750 °C, samples subjected to 
tensile stress exhibited the highest remanent polarizations. Upon increasing the annealing 
temperature to 770 °C or above, it was the compressed SBT films that exhibited the greatest values 
of 2Pr. The changes in the values of 2Pr of the SBT films were attributed to variations in (a) the 
pyrochlore-to-BLS phase ratio, (b) the microstructure, and (c) the degree of domain reorientation. 
All of the factors were influenced by a combination of the crystallization temperature and the nature 
of the stress. Therefore, the annealing temperature and the applied stress are the two key issues that 
can be tuned to achieve optimized properties for SBT films. 
 
6. Reference 
1. G.A.C.M. Spierings, G.J.M. Dormans, W.G.J. Moors, M.J.E. Ulenaers, and P.K. Larsen, J. Appl. 
Phys., 78, 1926 (1995). 
2. R. Bruchhaus, D. Pitzer, R. Primig, M. Schreiter, and W. Wersing, Integrated Ferroelectrics, 21, 
461 (1998). 
3. Y. Okada and Y. Tokumaru, J. Appl. Phys., 56, 314 (1984). 
4. F. Yan, X. Chen, P. Bao, Y. Wang, and J. Liu, J. Appl. Phys., 87, 1453 (2000). 
5. X. Zhu, J. Zhu, S. Zhou, Q. Li, Z. Liu, and N. Ming, Appl. Phys. Lett., 79, 1345 (2001). 
6. K. Babooram and Z.-G. Ye, Chem. Mater., 18, 532 (2006). 
7. I. Koiwa, T. Kanehara, J. Mita, T. Iwabuchi, T. Osaka, S. Ono, and M.Maeda, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 
35, 4946 (1996). 
8. H. Bachhofer, H. von Philipsborn , W. Hartner ,C. Dehm , B. Jobst, A. Kiendl, H. Schroeder and 
R. Waser, J. Mater. Res., 16, 2966 (2001). 
9. Y.P. Wang, H.F. Ning, L. Zhou, J.K. Shen, and Z.G. Liu, Appl. Phys. Lett., 83, 743 (2003). 
10. C.C. Leu, M.C. Yang, C.T. Hu, C.H. Chien, M.J. Yang, and T.Y. Huang, Appl. Phys. Lett., 79 , 
3833 (2001). 
 
TABLE 1. Extracted residual stresses (determined using the XRD sin2ψ method)  
and calculated stresses during crystallization of SBT films (units: MPa). 
 Tensile 
constraint 
Compressive 
constraint 
Reference 
(free) 
After cooling (RT) 512.3 –146.3 282.5 
During annealing (750 °C) 232.7 –425.9 2.9 
  
 
Figure 5. Topographic (left) and piezoresponse images (middle: out of plane, 
right: in plane) of 200nm (a) tension and (b) compressive-constraint SBT films 
annealed at 750℃.
Figure 6. Topographic (left) and piezoresponse images (middle: out of plane, 
right: in plane) of 200nm (a) tension and (b) compressive-constraint SBT 
films annealed at 790℃.
7
附件二 可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98年9月1日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：鐵電薄膜晶向與鐵電域結構之控制 
計畫主持人：呂正傑    
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-390 -002   學門領域：材料 
技術/創作名稱 鐵電薄膜晶向結構之控制 
發明人/創作人 呂正傑 
中文： 
在本研究中，我們設計出可靠且具重複性的模具與試片組裝方
式，能以施加外力的方式控制熱處理過程SrBi2Ta2O9薄膜的應力狀
態，研究結果顯示應力確實對鐵電薄膜之結晶結構與特性產生顯著
作用，高溫結晶過程中應力狀態確實可以有效改變薄膜結晶結構、
優選方位、晶粒尺寸大小等等，對鐵電特性也有明顯作用。 
 
 
技術說明 
英文： 
We applied tensile and compressive constraints during annealing 
processes to investigate the effect of stress on the crystallinity and 
ferroelectric properties of SrBi2Ta2O9 thin films. Both the tensile and 
compressive stresses exerted pronounced effects on the volume 
fraction of the pyrochlore phase and the grain growth mechanisms of 
the SBT films. The effects of the stress correlated with the change of 
crystallization temperatures. Because the stress applied to an SBT 
sample during its crystallization led to the creation of distinct 
microstructures and constituted phases of the film, our SBT samples 
exhibited distinct ferroelectric behavior under various stressing 
conditions. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
電子材料、半導體元件 
技術特點 
能以外加而可調控方式改變薄膜高溫結晶過程中的應力狀態。 
推廣及運用的價值 
薄膜材料特性往往受薄膜應力影響，藉由適當控制應力狀態可大幅
提升薄膜性質。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
