In the final film indexing step, we marked the shot 
content and the event time on the time axis after the 
characteristics of the film was grabbed occasionally. 
Afterwards, the scoring events, the long shot and the 
close-up shot would be gragged with the Film Event Index 
System which was developed by our system.  
The correlated research work would be explained 
and defined on chapter 2, including the introduction of the 
video file format, the definition of the ontology, and the 
related analysis of the video film. The chapter 3 would 
illustrate the system implementation and the methods for 
extracting features. And the chapter 4 came out a 
conclusion and the future research eventually, 
 
2 The Video Indexing 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Abbreviation in basketball event 
 
The attribute table of  the shot ontology was the 
basic intension of the ontology. According to the attribute 
of  that table, we could establish an shot ontology for the 
basketball sprot (refer to Figure 2 and 3).   
 
 
Figure 3. Shot Ontology 
 
2.1 Shot Ontology 
The major different between the sports program and 
the regular TV program was the scriptwriter, the process of 
a game and its result was unpredictable. That was the 
reason why the sports game was so attractive to the sport 
fans. When it comes to ‘game’, meaning competiting, 
there must be certain rules for game, and also there was 
necessary to have some buzzword to assist the definition 
while it occurred in a game course. Such as the essential of 
scoring was to throw the basketball into the basket frame 
in other court in a game, and the accumulation of the 
points in a whole game was the key factor to decide the 
winner eventually. We could classify the ‘points’ in the 
followins:  2-points, 3-points, free thows, and so on. 
Therefore, we could conduct a possible sequent order of a 
game with the varied buzzwords, and the process could be 
in a continuous series of dribbling, passing, three-pointing 
and goaling finally (as shown in Fig. 4).  
 
Figure 4. The possible sequent order of a game 
●Merging of the events series 
In a sprots TV program, the director took the 
picture with switched shot according to the game course, 
such as there was a series of steals, fast breaks and then 
kicked into the goal in a soccer game. The director would 
compose a splendid short film with a series shot switching 
which contained the scoring shot, the cheering of the 
spectators, and the hugging of the players, etc. So we 
considered the process of the shot switching a semantical 
representation consequently.  
In this paper, there was two kinds of shots will be 
analysis: Long Shot and Close-Up Shot. The Long Shot 
was taking the picture for the matter of a game, and the 
Close-Up Shot was focused on the object which the 
spectators should pay attention to in a game. It could be a 
person, or an article instead. And we named the Long Shot 
and the Close Up Shot as ‘cmeL’ and ‘cmeO’ respectively. 
Also, we listed some terminology in a basketball game, 
such as free throw (ft), pass(pass), slam dun(dk) and so on. 
The narrative in basket ball was shown on table 1. Some 
other definition was indicated the unnecessary shooting 
frame in a game, such as the action of the coach, a close-up 
shot for a particular player or the spectators on  the 
auditorium area, which we would name as ‘ind’. 
The abbreviation of a basketball game could be 
listed as Table 1, and the serials of the game course could 
be shown as Table 2. 
Table 1. The Abbreviation in basketball game 
Basketball Event abbreviation 
Jump ball jb 
Foul ful 
Goal gol 
Indifferent (don’t care) ind 
Free throw ft 
Dribble db 
Pass ball to other pass 
Lay up lup 
Mid-range jumpers mrj 
Three pointer tp 
Dunk dk 
Rebounds rb 
Shot 
Content-Ch Motion Shot 
Type 
Temporal 
{Yes, No} {Low, High} 
{Long, Close Up} 
Goal Event With 
{Meets, Before, 
Completes, Starts 
…..} … 
 
Shot Boundary 
Detection 
Shot 
 Classification 
Play/Break 
 Detection 
Slow-Motion Replay 
Detection 
Automatic 
Color Modeling 
Moving Object 
Segmentation and 
Tracking 
Video Semantic 
Analysis 
Low level Feature Extraction 
 
Foul Free throw Rebounds Pass
 
Figure 8. The sequence of Shot types and events 
For example on the sequence S1 and S2: the S1 
was defined as a Long Shot. When a foul(ful) occurred, the 
indifferent(ind) event raised accordingly. And a serial of 
field goal or some indiffenent event would be followed 
consequently. We could simplify the similar type of shot 
as followings: 
Step 1: It could be simplified to the same one sequence if 
the status of current shot was same as next shot. 
But the event of current shot should be retained. 
Step 2: Repeated the previous step 1 until all sequences 
were simplifed completedly. 
Step 3: Expanded the simplification to two sequences for 
one sequent unit . It could be simplified to one 
sequent unit if the status of current sequence was 
same as next sequence. 
Step 4: Repeated the previous step 3 until all sequent 
units were simplifed completedly. 
For example, it could be simplified to same 
sequence if a Close Shot occurred after a previous Close 
Shot (refer to Figure 9). 
 
Figure 9. The simplified sequence of Shot types and events 
It was more easy to realize a basketball game from 
the simplification of a sequence shot, such as the relations 
between Shot events and Shot types. Also, we could 
eliminate the very small period shots by the detection of   
timing events. It would be much help for enhancing 
precision by removing these short time periods after the 
statistic analysis considerably. 
●Shot Indexing 
The content indexing of a basketball game was the 
shot ontology itself. We had defined every shot descriptors 
through its low-level characteristics on the previous 
section. There were different authority offered by the shot 
ontology in the practical process. We set the Shot 
Classification and Score Board Changing was the highest  
authority ratio value, due to these events could distinguish 
the whole game processing into game fragments and 
non-game fragments from the definition of shot ontology 
substantially. Generally, it might be compressed to one 
hour video from a normal two hours film by a verified 
method that was known as play back film detection 
experimentally. And all the terminologies of the sport 
event happened durning the game defined from the 
application level of the ontology. 
We also could draw out a ball game event by the 
related searching that marked the characteristic of each 
video period to the time-line axis by the knowledge of shot 
ontology definitively. The flow of the shot indexing was 
described as followings (refer to figure 10).  
 
 
Figure 10.  Shot Indexing Process 
 
1. The first step of shot indexing is the shot detection; this 
process separated a sequential video into several 
different shots occasionally. We utilize the color 
histogram for the determination of shot separation. 
After the shot detection for the cutting separately, we 
record the beginning frame, ending frame and the 
time/number of each shot in a database accomplished 
consequently. 
2. Since we got the total frame number of each shot, we 
could sort those shot with its frame number, and 
picked the longest cut for the sample of court color. 
We also found that the video frames of regular game 
would be longer than the others which included the 
Close Up Shot, attractive sidelight activities or field 
goal. And the court color would take most portions on 
each game (Refer to Figure 11). 
 
 
S4/cmeOS1/cmeL S2/cmeO 
ful/ind 
S3/cmeO 
ind/ft
ft/ft 
ft/Gol
S5/cmeL S6/cmeO 
Gol/ind 
S7/cmeL 
ind/Gol 
S8/cmeO
Gol/ind
S9/cmeL 
os/ful
S10/cmeO 
ful/ind 
S11/cmeL 
ind/ful 
…… 
cmeO cmeL 
ful|ft|stop|gol 
ind|ft 
ft|ind|stop 
Input Video
Shot 
Detection 
Shot Type 
Classification
SB Change
Detection 
Motion 
Statistics 
Mark Shot Number  
Get Shot Number 
Update Shot Type 
Get Shot Number 
Update SB Event to Shot 
Get Shot Number 
Update Motion 
Information 
Shot 
Ontology
 
calculation. Therefore, it was necessary to take a better 
choice on the balance of the time cost and the Precision 
Rate apparently.  
 
4. Summary 
This paper defined a theory of shot ontology, and 
analyzed the descriptors of shot ontology with various 
low-level characteristics. We also marked the timing of a 
basketball game video film with the skin color, court color 
and score board changing event for the space relationship. 
And inferred the scoring segments from the timing relation 
of shot types. Eventually, there was an excellent result to 
support our research.  
We could had an excellent detection of the scoring 
event for the video frame in a basketball game by our 
indexing procedure essentially. And the detection of other 
course events will be strengthened on our next 
development stage. Meanwhile, the more convenient 
weaving of indexing and the authority function would be 
provided for the system browser. This would allow users to 
have a interactive viewing capability ultimately. 
 
References: 
[1] M.R. Naphade, et.al "A factor graph framework for 
semantic video indexing," IEEE Trans. on Circuits 
and Syst. for VideoTechnol., vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 40-52, 
Jan. 2002.  
[2] M.R. aphade, et.al "Modeling semantic concepts to 
support query by keywords in video," in Proc. IEEE 
Int. Conf. on Image Processing ICIP '02, vol. 1, pp. 
145-148, Rochester, NY, Sept. 2002.  
[3] Min Xu, et.al. ” Event Detection in Basketball Video 
Using Multiple Modalities” Information, 
Communications and Signal Processing, 2003 and 
the Fourth Pacific Rim Conference on Multimedia. 
Proceedings of the 2003 Joint Conference of the 
Fourth International Conference on Vol.3,  15-18 Dec. 
2003, pp.1526 – 1530. 
[4] J.R. Bach, et.al “The Virage image search engine: An 
oprn framework for image management,“ in Proc. 
SPIE Conf. On Vis. Commun,and Image Proc.  
[5] M. Flicker, et.al “Query by Image and Video Content: 
The QBIC System,” IEEE  Computer, Vol.28, No9, 
pp.23~32, 1995 
[6] A.Pentland, et.al “Photobook: Content-based 
manipulation of image databases,” International 
Jounal of Computer Vision 1996. 
[7] J. R. Smith and S,F, Chang, “Visual SEEK: a fully 
automated content-base image query system,” 
Proceeding of ACM International Conference 
Multimedia, boston, MA, pp.87~98, November. 1996 
[8] Blobworld, http://elib.cs.berkeley.edu/ 
photos/blobworld/ 
 
 
[9] J. M. Corridoni, A Del Bimbo, “Structured 
representation and automatic indexing of movie 
information content”, Pattern Recognition, Vol.31, 
No.12, pp.2027-2045, 1998 
