金屬氧化物奈米結構之脈衝/脈衝-反轉沉積製備, 設計與應用
Design and Tailoring of the Nanostructured Architectures of Metal Oxides by
Pulse-Rest/Pulse-Reversal Deposition and Their Applications
計畫編號：NSC 96-2628-E-007-146-MY2
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：胡 啟 章 教授 清華大學化工系
計畫參與人員：林國閔、林繼正、蔡易達、洪卿雲、黃靜君、李璟玫、林素妃 清華大學
&中正大學化工系
1. 中文摘要(關鍵字：錳氧化物、奈米線、脈衝沉積、場發射陰極)
由 MnOOH 為中心、Mn3O4 為殼層所構成的錳氧化物奈米線在本研究中已經成功地透
過二極式、陽極沉積法完成製備。錳氧化物奈米線在場發射陰極之應用特性極佳，其 turn-on
voltage 在 1A cm2 時約為 3.4 V。二極式、陽極沉積法所得的錳氧化物奈米線，其均勻性
可達公分尺度以上，而且製造過程相當容易可靠，無論是導電性玻璃、不鏽鋼與石墨基材，
均能獲得相同結果。均勻性達公分尺度與低 turn-on voltage 的特性顯示本研究所開發的方
法極具工業化大量生產之潛力。製備出的所有氧化物經由循環伏安法在鹼金、鹼土族水溶
液中進行電化學測試，都具有良好的電容器行為，其電容量介於 41-157 F/g。根據本研究，
在 1.1V 脈衝電壓、0.5 s 休止時間、0.5 s 脈衝時間、工作於 0.5 M 的氯化鈣溶液中可以得
到最大的電容量。最後，分別以脈衝休止法所製備出的錳氧化物、純 Mn3O4 結晶以及多層
奈米碳管做為基材，再以定電流的方式成長錳氧化物於以上基材上，這些錳氧化物的混合
物都表現出良好的電化學行為。此外，這些氧化物的穩定性相當的好：在 10000 圈的掃描
中，僅僅只有 5~15 %的電容損失，而實驗中得到最大的比電容值為 390.8 F/g。
Abstract (Keyword: Mn oxides, nanowires, pulse deposition, FE cathode)
Manganese oxide (denoted as MnOx) nanowires with MnOOH in core and Mn3O4 in shell
were successfully prepared by anodic deposition under a two-electrode, pulse-rest mode. This
MnOx nanowire deposit showed a low turn-on voltage (3.4 V at 1A cm2) in the field emission
(FE) application. Very uniform nanowire morphologies in cm2 scale can be electroplated onto
ITO, stainless steel, and graphite substrates from a simple Mn(CH3COO)2 solution without
templates. The cm2 scale uniformity and low turn-on voltage reveal the highly practical
significance of MnOx nanowires in FE cathodes prepared by pulse deposition. The deposits
(vi)本研究室之初步研究顯示，許多金屬氧化物可藉由電化學方式進行氧化物的表面結構之
奈米化，因此對其特殊的成長機制的瞭解，不論在學術探討上與實際應用上將獨樹一幟，
因此極易建立此類電極材料的專利與技術開發。基於上述，本研究將利用電化學法成長這
類具有水合與非晶型之過渡金屬氧化物，它們將具備特殊的材料特性、奈米結構、電化學
活性或光觸媒的效果。
在電化學沉積的過程中，電能的供應方式是另一研究重點；一般可以簡單區分為靜態
(static)與動態(dynamic)電源，靜態電源即為常見的直流電源供應器，屬於簡單、操縱容易、
設備便宜的製備方式；動態電源又可區分為電位連續變化方式(如循環伏安法)與脈衝式電
位變化(包括脈衝式(pulse)與脈衝-反轉(pulse-reversal)方式)，一般利用電位連續變化方式
對於電源供應器的要求與規格比較複雜，其操作也比較繁複，無論是操作與設備成本方面
都耗費較高；此外根據本實驗室過去的研究成果顯示，電位連續變化方式所產生的功效可
以透過脈衝式或脈衝-反轉的參數調整而獲得完全相同的結果[6-9]，因此基於應用性與可
行性之考量，本研究將採用脈衝式與脈衝-反轉式陽極沈積過渡金屬氧化物。
事實上，脈衝與脈衝-反轉技術在陰極金屬電鍍方面已經有許多研究提出，然而在陽
極氧化物的沈積部分鮮少探討。氧化物的陽極沈積步驟可簡單表示如下：
Mz+M(z+)+ +e
M(z+)+ + (z+)OHM(OH)(z+)
M(OH)(z+)MO(z+)/2 + (z+)/2 H2O
其中 M(OH)(z+)與 MO(z+)/2 極可能在休息(rest)或反轉(reversal)沉積的過程中，主動(或被迫)
形成較低氧化態的結構，如此更能增加氧化物種類與結構的多樣化，因此除了一般陽極氧
化物沉積的優點以外，在種類與結構的多樣化方面更進一步提昇。此外根據吾人的前導研
究顯示，金屬氧化物可藉由脈衝與脈衝-反轉方式進行氧化物的表面結構之奈米化，而且其
奈米結構可以利用脈衝與脈衝-反轉之沉積參數進行調整與改變，這些多樣化的脈衝與脈衝
-反轉波形與內含的多項控制參數(如脈衝電位及時間，反轉電位及時間、休息之時間以休息
區段與脈衝-反轉區段之順序安排等)，再加上溶液特性(如 pH、溫度與錯合劑等)的變化等，
因此許多特殊的奈米結構(包括奈米球、奈米柱、奈米線、奈米板等)氧化物可望經由此方法
合成，它們的物理化學特性與奈米結構之特殊性的關係與在能源儲存/轉換系統、光能轉換
之間，而溶液溫度皆由恆溫水槽控制。
圖 1 脈衝-休止法製備電極裝置圖
製備出的氧化物之表面結構以場發射掃描電子顯微鏡(FE-SEM)觀察；而細部結構與晶
相則以高解析穿透式電子顯微鏡(HR-TEM)觀察；氧化態鍵結行為與元素分析則是使用 X
光光電子光譜儀(XPS)和拉曼光譜儀來觀察。
電化學測試反應器為容量 50 ml 的夾層 PYREX 玻璃反應器，配合恒溫循環水槽以便
於控制反應溫度。反應器上方四個開口，分別作為工作電極、參考電極、對應電極及氮氣
通入口等使用。參考電極為 Ag/AgCl 電極(3 mol/dm3 KCl, 207 mV vs.SHE at 25 oC) ；對應
電極則為表面積 2 cm2 的白金絲。通常工作電極與參考電極的拉晶管(Luggin tube)距離必須
盡量靠近，大約在 1-2mm 左右，其目的在降低歐姆電阻(iR drop)的影響。
所有的溶液皆由純水機(MILLI-Q SP, Japan at 18 MΩ-cm)供應的純水所配製的。此外，
在所有的電化學測試實驗操作之前，皆需通入氮氣 10 min 進行除氧，當要進行電化學分析
時，再將通氮氣管移至水溶液上方，以避免產生不必要的干擾現象，而溶液溫度皆由恆溫
水槽控制。
4. 結果摘錄
4.1. 第一年度成果摘錄
The highly uniform MnOx thin film on ITO substrates in cm2 scale is clearly observed in
Figure 1A, which is one of unique advantages for electrochemical deposition. The morphologies
of as-deposited MnOx deposits onto ITO are further characterized by a scanning electron
microscope. An extremely even film of MnOx without grain boundaries is clearly observed from
1. 恆溫水槽
2. BTS3030 脈衝式電源供應器
3. 對應電極
4. 工作電極
5. 電解槽
Figure 2 (A,C) Top-viewed and (B,D) side-viewed SEM images of MnOx nanowires synthesized
by pulse deposition onto (A,B) stainless steel and (C,D) graphite substrates.
Figure 3 (A) bright-field and (B,C) high-resolution TEM images of 1-D MnOx and (D) a
glancing-angle XRD pattern of MnOx nanowires on a graphite substrate.
The FE results measured from 0 to 800 V at a distance of 150 μm between the nanowire tips 
and the platinum anode for a MnOx nanowire deposit with 1 cm2 emission area are shown in
Figure 4. This MnOx nanowire deposit shows a turn-on electric field about 3.4 V/μm (the turn-on
voltage is defined as the voltage where the emission curent density reaches 1μA/cm2). This
turn-on voltage is similar to those of ZnO, RuO2, Co3O4, WO2, CuO, and SnO2. The inset in
Figure 4 is the corresponding Fowler-Nordheim (FN) plot displayed with ln(I/E2) versus 1/E.
This plot shows a linear relationship with the exception in the low electric field region,
attributable to the insufficient strength of electric field, resulting in that electrons can not be
extracted from the tip surface of MnOx nanowires. The FE behavior of MnOx nanowires obeys
the FN theory, revealing the feasibility of MnOx nanowires as an electron emitter. The FN
formula is described as the following equation:








 

E
E
I



 )
1044.6exp
)(1054.1 2
3
7
26
where β is the geometric factor (V cm-1), E is the applied electric field, and  is the work
function of the sample being tested.
4.2. 第二年度成果摘錄
A hierarchical nanocomposite consisting of ternary manganese oxides, a-MnO2, Mn3O4
nanocrystals, and MnOOH nanowires is designed to improve Mn oxide utilization and to improve
the cycle stability of a-MnO2. This idea, schematically shown in Figure 5, can be simply realized
by a two-step electrochemical deposition. Recently, a two-electrode pulse-rest deposition mode
was successfully developed to prepare a highly porous, wire-like nanostructure mainly consisting
of MnOOH nanowires and Mn3O4 nanoparticles on various substrates (see 第一年度成果摘錄).
In addition, the reversibility and cycle stability of this nanocomposite are excellent. Since
electrochemically activated Mn3O4 also showed excellent charge/discharge stability [10], Mn3O4
may be used to promote the cycle stability of a-MnO2 in the charge/discharge test. This idea has
been confirmed in this work. Since the nanostructures of a-MnO2 with relatively high specific
fine-tuning the architectures of porous MnOOH/Mn3O4 skeleton. In addition, the amount of
a-MnO2 have been demonstrated to simply control by the passed charge density [11], further
emphasizing the merits of this hierarchical architecture design.
Figure 6. (A) FE-SEM and (B-D) HR-TEM images of a ternary a-MnO2/Mn3O4/MnOOH
nanocomposite prepared by pulse deposition followed with galvanostatic deposition at 4
mA cm2 for 25 s.
The excellent capacitive performances, i.e., good electrochemical reversibility, very high
power property, and long cycle life, of the ternary manganse oxides nanocomposites are cearly
demonstrated in Figure 7. From Figure 7A, all CV curves show completely symmetric i–E
responses in the potential region of investigation, indicating its good electrochemical reversibility.
The specific capacitance (ca. 391 F g1) of this unique ternary a-MnO2/Mn3O4/MnOOH
nanocomposite is relatively high, revealing good utilization of Mn oxides. The high-rate
were surrounded with indefinite sheets which have been confirmed to be amorphous. From the
lattice image in Figure 8D, the nanowires in the cycled nanocomposite are confirmed to be
MnOOH nanocrystals which are stable in the cycling test. The above results indicate that Mn3O4
nanocrystals and a-MnO2 nanorods are gradually transformed into the sheet-like amorphous
mnaganese oxide during the cycling test and that Mn3O4 nanocrystals advance the cycle stability
of a-MnO2 prepared by electrodeposition.
Figure 8. (A,B) FE-SEM and (C,D) HR-TEM images of a ternary a-MnO2/MnOOH-Mn3O4
nanocomposite prepared by pulse deposition followed with galvanostatic deposition at 4
mA cm2 for 25 s and after (A) 1000, and (B-D) 10000 cycles of a charge/discharge test.
5. 總結
Electrochemical deposition in the pulse-rest mode is clearly an efficient method for
preparing uniform 1-D MnOx nanowires composed of MnOOH and Mn3O4 in the cm2 scale. The
nanostructured MnOx is of a core-shell structure, MnOOH-core and Mn3O4-shell. The core-shell
MnOx nanowires exhibit a turn-on voltage of ca. 3.4 V/μm, comparable to several materials 
reported in the literature.
出席 PRiME 2008 (第 214 屆美國電化學學會)國際會議心得報告
報告人： 胡啟章 教授 國立清華大學化工系
會議名稱：PRiME 2008 (第 214 屆美國電化學學會年會)
會議期間：October 12 - 17
會議地點：Honolulu, Hawaii, USA
發表論文名稱：
1. Electrochemical Deposition of 1D Nanostructured Oxides for Super- capacitors and
Field-Emission Cathodes (invited talk)
2. Electrocatalytic Deposition of Nanostructured Vanadium Oxide for Pseudo- capacitors
(oral)
3. Textural and Capacitive Characteristics of Pulse-Deposited Manganese Oxide
Nanowires (oral, by Dr. Kuo-Hsin Chang)
1.參加會議經過
此次報告人獲PRiME, E9 Symposium, One-Dimensional Nano- scale Electronic and
Photonic Devices 2的邀請進行invited talk(October 13, Monday 11:30-12:00)，內心深感愉悅能
夠獲得此一殊榮；另外有兩篇口頭發表之論文在B2 Symposium, Electrochemical Capacitors
and Hybrid Power Sources報告(October 15, Wednesday 16:20-16:40, oral presentation; October
16, Thursday 14:40-15:00, oral presentation)，所以行程非常緊湊。由於報告人已經是第四度
至美國夏威夷檀香山參加國際研討會(三次美國電化學學會年會與一次美國化學學會+環太
平洋化學聯盟年會)，所以參與年會過程非常順利，並與多位國外學者見面與交換研究心
得；其中與日本東京工業大學大坂武男教授有數日之互動，其間得知大坂教授在奈米結構
錳氧化物對氧氣還原反應部分有極深入的研究，由於報告人在年會發表脈衝式電化學沉積
錳氧化物的奈米結構控制，因此雙方就奈米結構錳氧化物在氧氣的還原部分相談甚深，並
約定於2008年11月亞洲電化學能源會議中開始啟動奈米結構錳氧化物在氧氣還原的合作研
究(目前報告人已經與大坂教授實驗室進行奈米結構錳氧化物在氧氣還原的合作研究)，並特
附件一 出席國際會議心得報告
Electrochemical Deposition of 1D
Nanostructured Oxides for Supercapacitors
and Field-Emission Cathodes
Chi-Chang Hu,a,* and Kuo-Hsin Chang a,b
a: Department of Chemical Engineering, National
Tsing Hua University, Hsin-Chu, 30013 TAIWAN
b: Department of Chemical Engineering, National
Chung Cheng University, Chia-Yi, 621
TAIWAN
Electrochemical deposition, having been
considered as a simple, one-step, and
cost-effective method, is much more advantageous
than the other techniques. For instance, the
structure, surface morphology, and uniformity of
oxides can be easily controlled by adjusting the
parameters of electrochemical deposition such as
the deposition mode, applied potential, current
density, bath temperature, concentration of
precursors, and addition of complex/additive
agents [1-6]. Accordingly, electrochemical
deposition of metal oxide films becomes an
interesting and important research topic. This talk
will discuss the electrochemical deposition of two
1D nanostructured oxides for the applications of
supercapacitors and field-emission cathodes.
Fig. 1 (A, B) SEM top images of an RuO2xH2O
NTs arrayed electrode; (C) the i-t curve of anodic
deposition measured at 1.0 V from a 10 mM
RuCl3xH2O + 0.1 M CH3COONa solution; (D) a
SEM image shows the onset-overfilled
morphology of a RuO2xH2O NTs arrayed
electrode. All NTs were deposited at 1.0 V from a
10 mM RuCl3xH2O + 0.1 M CH3COONa solution
In the first part, using the
membrane-templated synthesis route, hydrous
RuO2 (RuO2xH2O) nanotubular arrayed electrodes
were successfully synthesized by means of the
anodic deposition technique. The desired 3D
mesoporous architecture of RuO2xH2O
nanotubular arrayed electrodes with annealing in
air at 200oC for 2 hrs simultaneously maintained
the facility of electrolyte penetration, the ease of
proton exchange/diffusion, and the metallic
conductivity of crystalline RuO2, exhibiting
unexpectedly ultrahigh power characteristics with
its frequency “knee”reaching ca. 6 kHz, 2530
times better than that of RuO2 single crystalline,
arrayed nanorods. The specific power and specific
energy of annealed RuO2xH2O nanotubes
obtained at 6 kHz is equal to 7200 kW kg1 and
8.33 Wh kg1, respectively, demonstrating the
characteristics of supercapacitors of next
generation.
Fig. 2. Field-emission properties of 1-D MnOx on
an ITO substrate. A typical field-emission
current-voltage (I-E) curve measured from a MnOx
附件二 出席國際學術會議發表之論文
金屬氧化物奈米結構之脈衝/脈衝-反轉沉積製備, 設計與應用
Design and Tailoring of the Nanostructured Architectures of Metal Oxides by
Pulse-Rest/Pulse-Reversal Deposition and Their Applications
計畫編號：NSC 96-2628-E-007-146-MY2
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：胡 啟 章 教授 清華大學化工系
計畫參與人員：張國興、林繼正、黃昭銘、蔡易達、郭幸宜 清華大學&中正大學化工系
1. 中文摘要(關鍵字：錳氧化物、奈米線、脈衝沉
積、場發射陰極)
由 MnOOH 為中心、Mn3O4 為殼層所構成的錳
氧化物奈米線在本研究中已經成功地透過二極式、陽
極沉積法完成製備。錳氧化物奈米線在場發射陰極之
應用特性極佳，其 turn-on voltage 在 1 A cm2 時約
為 3.4 V。二極式、陽極沉積法所得的錳氧化物奈米
線，其均勻性可達公分尺度以上，而且製造過程相當
容易可靠，無論是導電性玻璃、不鏽鋼與石墨基材，
均能獲得相同結果。均勻性達公分尺度與低 turn-on
voltage 的特性顯示本研究所開發的方法極具工業化
大量生產之潛力。
Abstract (Keyword: Mn oxides, nanowires, pulse
deposition, FE cathode)
Manganese oxide (denoted as MnOx) nanowires
with MnOOH in core and Mn3O4 in shell were
successfully prepared by anodic deposition under a
two-electrode, pulse-rest mode. This MnOx nanowire
deposit showed a low turn-on voltage (3.4 V at 1 A
cm2) in the field emission (FE) application. Very
uniform nanowire morphologies in cm2 scale can be
electroplated onto ITO, stainless steel, and graphite
substrates from a simple Mn(CH3COO)2 solution
without templates. The cm2 scale uniformity and low
turn-on voltage reveal the highly practical significance
of MnOx nanowires in FE cathodes prepared by pulse
deposition.
2. Introduction
Synthesis and characterization of one-dimensional
(1-D) nanostructured materials, e.g., nanowires [1,2],
nanotubes [3,4], or nanorods [5,6], become a hot
research topic because these 1-D materials usually show
fascinating properties very different from their
corresponding bulk materials as a result of the quantum
confinement effect [7,8]. Miniaturizing into the
nanometer scale also leads to a new era in novel
applications of many fields, such as electronics,
photoelectronics, energy storage/conversion, magnetic
recording devices, and so on. Recently, a particular
interest in growth of 1-D nanomaterials is based on their
excellent field emission (FE) characteristics, further
supporting the importance of developing 1-D materials.
Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) generally show excellent
FE performances because of its unique curvature of tips,
low turn-on voltage, and high thermal stability, etc.
However, the procedure in manufacturing a CNTs FE
array in micrometer scale is very complicated without
considering the relatively arduous steps of CNTs
synthesis and purification. Recently, Lee et al. [9]
reported that ZnO nanowires exhibit good FE
performances, opening the application window of metal
oxides for FE cathodes. Accordingly, numerous articles
reported the growth of 1-D metal oxides, such as RuO2
nanorods, Co3O4 nanowires, WO2 nanorods, CuO
nanoneedles, and SnO2 nanorods in the FE applications.
Recently, materials in 1-D nanostructures were
successfully prepared on the basis of the crystal growth
nature. In addition, Mn oxides in various nanostructures
could be electroplated by means of electrochemical
deposition under various plating modes [10]. Since Mn
oxide nanotubes have been showed good FE
characteristics, and electrochemical deposition is widely
recognized as a simple, one-step, cost-effective method,
growth of manganese oxide nanowires on various
附件三 第一年度期中進度報告
which is a very suitable structure for the FE application
(see below). Note that the resultant morphology and
aspect ratio of MnOx nanowires are controllable by
varying the pulse deposition variables, providing an
additional advantage although deposits plated by pulse
deposition are generally fine, smooth, and nonporous.
Deposition of MnOx nanowires on stainless steel
and graphite substrates was also carried out to
demonstrate the exclusive excellence of electrochemical
deposition by a pulse-rest deposition mode in a
two-electrode cell. Figures 2A and 2B show similar
morphologies of MnOx nanowires to those observed on
an ITO substrate although the substrate is stainless steel.
A thin-film deposit consisting of free-standing MnOx
nanowires is also uniformly deposited on the graphite
substrate although the graphite surface is very rough and
scraggy (Figures 2C and 2D). The above results reveal
the fact that uniform MnOx nanowires are easily
deposited onto conductive substrates of any shape in a
simple two-electrode cell under a pulse-rest deposition
mode, which is of practical significance.
Figure 2 (A,C) Top-viewed and (B,D) side-viewed SEM
images of MnOx nanowires synthesized by pulse
deposition onto (A,B) stainless steel and (C,D)
graphite substrates.
The microstructures of MnOx were further identified
by a transmission electron microscope and a
glancing-angle X-ray diffractometer. Figure 3A is the
bright-field image of 1 to 2 bundles of MnOx
nannowires. The lattice images shown in Figures 3B and
3C were respectively observed at the central and
superficial positions of a MnOx nanowire. The
observation of a d-spacing of 0.265 nm in Figure 3B is
belonged to the plane (020) of MnOOH. The lattice
d-spacing, ca. 0.277nm, marked in the Fig. 3C is
corresponding to the (103) plane of Mn3O4. The XRD
pattern in Figure 3D reveals that the as-deposited MnOx
nanowires are composed of Mn3O4 (tetragonal
hausmannite structure, space group: I41/amd, with
lattice constants a = b = 5.762Å and c = 9.470Å,
JCPDS# 24-0734) and MnOOH (monoclinic magannite
structure, space group P21/c14, with lattice constant a =
5.3 Å, b = 5.278 Å, and c = 5.307 Å, JCPDS# 41-1379).
Accordingly, MnOx nanowires are of a core-shell-like
structure with MnOOH in core and Mn3O4 in shell.
Figure 3 (A) bright-field and (B,C) high-resolution TEM
images of 1-D MnOx and (D) a glancing-angle
XRD pattern of MnOx nanowires on a graphite
substrate.
The FE results measured from 0 to 800 V at a
distance of 150 μm between the nanowire tips and the 
platinum anode for a MnOx nanowire deposit with 1 cm
2
出席 PRiME 2008 (第 214屆美國電化學學會)國際會議心得報告
報告人： 胡啟章 教授 國立清華大學化工系
會議名稱：PRiME 2008 (第 214屆美國電化學學會年會)
會議期間：October 12 - 17
會議地點：Honolulu, Hawaii, USA
發表論文名稱：
1. Electrochemical Deposition of 1D Nanostructured Oxides for Super- capacitors and
Field-Emission Cathodes (invited talk)
2. Electrocatalytic Deposition of Nanostructured Vanadium Oxide for Pseudo- capacitors
(oral)
3. Textural and Capacitive Characteristics of Pulse-Deposited Manganese Oxide
Nanowires (oral, by Dr. Kuo-Hsin Chang)
1.參加會議經過
此次報告人獲PRiME, E9 Symposium, One-Dimensional Nano- scale Electronic and
Photonic Devices 2的邀請進行invited talk(October 13, Monday 11:30-12:00)，內心深感愉悅能
夠獲得此一殊榮；另外有兩篇口頭發表之論文在B2 Symposium, Electrochemical Capacitors
and Hybrid Power Sources報告(October 15, Wednesday 16:20-16:40, oral presentation; October
16, Thursday 14:40-15:00, oral presentation)，所以行程非常緊湊。由於報告人已經是第四度
至美國夏威夷檀香山參加國際研討會(三次美國電化學學會年會與一次美國化學學會+環太
平洋化學聯盟年會)，所以參與年會過程非常順利，並與多位國外學者見面與交換研究心
得；其中與日本東京工業大學大坂武男教授有數日之互動，其間得知大坂教授在奈米結構
錳氧化物對氧氣還原反應部分有極深入的研究，由於報告人在年會發表脈衝式電化學沉積
錳氧化物的奈米結構控制，因此雙方就奈米結構錳氧化物在氧氣的還原部分相談甚深，並
約定於2008年11月亞洲電化學能源會議中開始啟動奈米結構錳氧化物在氧氣還原的合作研
究(目前報告人已經與大坂教授實驗室進行奈米結構錳氧化物在氧氣還原的合作研究)，並特
別邀請大坂教授撥空訪問臺灣。
Electrochemical Deposition of 1D Nanostructured Oxides for Supercapacitors
and Field-Emission Cathodes
Chi-Chang Hu,a,* and Kuo-Hsin Chang a,b
a: Department of Chemical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsin-Chu, 30013
TAIWAN
b: Department of Chemical Engineering, National Chung Cheng University, Chia-Yi, 621
TAIWAN
Electrochemical deposition, having been considered as a simple, one-step, and
cost-effective method, is much more advantageous than the other techniques. For instance, the
structure, surface morphology, and uniformity of oxides can be easily controlled by adjusting
the parameters of electrochemical deposition such as the deposition mode, applied potential,
current density, bath temperature, concentration of precursors, and addition of
complex/additive agents [1-6]. Accordingly, electrochemical deposition of metal oxide films
becomes an interesting and important research topic. This talk will discuss the
electrochemical deposition of two 1D nanostructured oxides for the applications of
supercapacitors and field-emission cathodes.
Fig. 1 (A, B) SEM top images of an RuO2xH2O NTs arrayed electrode; (C) the i-t curve of
anodic deposition measured at 1.0 V from a 10 mM RuCl3xH2O + 0.1 M CH3COONa
solution; (D) a SEM image shows the onset-overfilled morphology of a RuO2xH2O NTs
arrayed electrode. All NTs were deposited at 1.0 V from a 10 mM RuCl3xH2O + 0.1 M
CH3COONa solution
In the first part, using the membrane-templated synthesis route, hydrous RuO2
(RuO2xH2O) nanotubular arrayed electrodes were successfully synthesized by means of the
anodic deposition technique. The desired 3D mesoporous architecture of RuO2xH2O
nanotubular arrayed electrodes with annealing in air at 200oC for 2 hrs simultaneously
maintained the facility of electrolyte penetration, the ease of proton exchange/diffusion, and
出席國際學術會議發表之論文
