INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND 
 
The Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW) is a well-known and classic 
problem in Logistic management and Operations research. The problem is to determine a set 
of routes for a fleet of vehicles visiting a number of known customers associated with time 
windows, and the objective is to minimize the number of vehicles required and the total travel 
time. It is a combinatorial optimization problem and has been studied in numerous papers (see 
Cordeau et al, 2002). The dynamic vehicle routing with real-time requests has been becoming 
an important topic. In contrast to the static case in which known requests are preplanned 
before the day of operation, the dynamism of the problem are due to the time-dependent 
nature of the network travel time or real-time arrivals of customer requests, which are 
unknown beforehand. The characteristics of dynamic vehicle routing problems and early 
studies in this area were identified by Psaraftis (1995) and Gendreau and Potvin (1998). 
 
In the dynamic problem, known requests with specified time windows are preplanned, while 
new customer requests are to be considered for possible insertion. A common approach to 
solve the problem for new customer arrivals are re-optimization. Re-optimization is a straight 
forward algorithm which repeats the static optimization algorithm each time the system is 
updated (e.g. on arrival of a new request) (see Gendreau et al., 1999). For the dynamic pickup 
and delivery problem with time windows, Mitrovic-Minic et al. (2004) proposed a 
double-horizon based heuristic which examine the benefit of updating frequency with 
short-term and long-term objectives.  
 
Several recent papers contributed on the solution or computing methodology in increasing the 
demand acceptance rates, level of service, and/or reducing operating cost. Diana (2006) 
considered several characteristics of the information flow (including percentage of real-time 
requests, interval between call-in and requested pickup time, and length of the computational 
cycle time) in evaluating the effectiveness of how the input is revealed to the algorithm in 
dynamic. Coslovich et al. (2006) solved the routing of unexpected demands in the dial-a-ride 
problem, with a new two-phase insertion technique. In contrast, Branke et al. (2005) and Yuen 
et al. (2009) investigated the waiting strategies in the scheduling problem. In Yuen et al. 
(2009), a Modified Dynamic Wait (MDW) strategy was proposed to allocate the waiting times 
of a vehicle along the stops of a planned route, which can potentially increase the flexibility 
and reduce the operating cost in accepting future calls. Testing against the classic Drive First 
(DF) and Wait First (WF) strategies, MDW is shown to be superior in general. More robust 
algorithms and heuristics were developed by formulating the problem into shortest path 
problem (Fabri and Recht, 2006), artificial neural network (Fu, 1999) and fuzzy logic 
(Teodorovic and Radivojevic, 2000).  
 
(MDW) strategy suggests a feasible trajectory that can potentially saves number of vehicle 
and/or distance travelled.  
 
The expected number of customer arrivals  
 
The idea of the proposed dynamic waiting strategy tries to maximize the probability of 
accepting future calls. We would show and quantity this value in the following analysis. The 
probability of inserting an unknown request into an existing route can be analyzed with the 
method of geometric probability (see Larson and Odoni, 1981). For a case where a vehicle is 
moving from location i to i+1 after the service, with the travel time denoted as D and there is 
a slack time (i.e. waiting time) that enables the vehicle to detour and pickup a real-time 
request. As shown in Figure 1, if one adopts the DF strategy, the vehicle would spend the 
slack time at i+1, and therefore if it detours to a new customer from i+1 before the service can 
start, it has to move back to i+1 before moving on to i+1. The potential service region is a 
circle with the centre at location i+1, with a radius of S/2. On the other hand, with WF 
strategy, the vehicle would spend the slack time at i, and the service region is an ellipse, with 
locations i and i+1 as focal points, D as the distance between the two foci. Therefore the sum 
of distances from any point on the curve to the two foci is D+S.  
 
Figure 1. Service Regions of Drive First and Wait First waiting strategies 
The size of the area implies how far a vehicle can go to pickup a new customer without 
violating the time windows planned requests. Then we can express the expected number of 
customers a vehicle can pickup based on a specific strategy. To facilitate the discussion, a list 
of the notations of variables and parameters are given in Table 1. 
D = Direct travel time from location i to location j 
S = Slack time available for the vehicle to detour  
 (a) Service region for DF              (b) Service region for WF 
S/2 
D 
i i+1 
S/2 D 
i i+1 
where the first term denotes the expected number of arrivals when the vehicle is on the way to 
location i, and the second term is the expected number of arrivals when the vehicle is waiting 
at location i. For more details, the first term is determined with the integration of the area 
covered with a slack ( )ii AD −  during a period of WS before iA , multiplied by ( )izλ , the 
demand intensity in the area (with the unit of number of arrivals per unit area per unit time). 
Here WS is a reasonable time width that a new request is considered by a route. Since the new 
request arrives when the vehicle is on the way to the location, the area covered is a fixed value 
over the integration. The second term is calculated by integrating the area from its arrival time 
iA  to its departure time iD . It can detour to a location and return with a before the latest 
feasible departure time iD . And the total expected number arrival with the DF strategy, 
DFEA , is calculated as  ∑
=
=
n
i
iEAEA
0
DFDF . 
Wait first strategy 
The expected number arrival in the covered area at location i with the WF strategy, WFiEA , 
can be calculated by 
 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ωλωωλ dtAArdtAAArEA iizD
A ii
i
iizA
WSA ii
iii
i
i
i
i
1
1,1
1
1,1
WF ,, +→+++→− ++ ∫∫ −+−=  
where the first term and second term, similar to the case of DF, denote the expected number of 
arrivals when the vehicle is on the way to location i and that when the vehicle is waiting at 
location i. The difference here is that the service is done once the vehicle arrives a location i, 
and therefore to pickup up a new request, say at location j, the vehicle can move from i to j to 
i+1 without returning back to i. If a vehicle goes for a new request, it must return to i+1 
before 1+iA . The demand intensity is considered for the region between i and i+1, and thus 
approximated by ( )
( ) ( )
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ +=
++→
2
1
1
iziz
iiz λλλ . And the total expected number arrival with the 
WF strategy, WFEA , is calculated by ∑
=
=
n
i
iEAEA
0
WFWF . 
Modified Dynamic Wait strategy 
 
The case of modified dynamic wait can be determined in a similar way: 
 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ωλωωλ dtAArdtAAArEA iizD
A ii
i
iizA
WSA iii
ii
i
i
i
i
1
1,1
1
1,1
MDW ,, +→+++→− ++ ∫∫ −+−=  
Under a tight schedule, with WF it has a higher chance of inserting a new request than with 
DF. MDW and GDW are identical to WF, which is optimal in this case. For the case of loose 
schedule, DF is some what better than WF, but it can be significant improved with the 
proposed MDW. However, MDW, with W(MDW)={0.5, 4, 2, 5, 1, 0}, is not an optimal 
strategy in this scenario, as one can use a general waiting time strategy and allocate the 
waiting time from location 0 to location 1, such that and W(GDW)= {0, 4.5, 2, 5, 1, 0}. 
Looking into the details of the calculation, it is because of the short distance between 0 and 1 
( 1,0t =0.5) and the large value of 1D (with ii AD −  = 7-0.5 = 6.5). Therefore, spending a 
waiting time at location 0 can make a very small benefit with the detour, but there is a larger 
service radius with waiting at location 1.  
 
The third scenario shows a loose schedule with cluster locations, in which we modified the 
scenario 2 with the distances between locations to be 1 time unit. It models the situation of 
cluster locations, as compared to the time window width of 2 time unit. In this case, DF is 
superior to WF and MDW. It is a surprising finding, as previous studies demonstrated that 
MDW should be better than DF. However, one would argue that the measuring criteria used 
here, i.e. expected arrivals (EA), and may not be useful if the routes are quite empty. It would 
then be interested to know the opportunity cost of inserting a new request, i.e. the reduction of 
EA. If a new feasible call arrives, what is the probability of taking another call if the current 
new request is rejected (or inserted to another route)? This is worth further investigation. 
Furthermore in the example, it is showed that a GDW can be derived that is superior to DF 
and MDW. It reemphasizes that the optimality of a waiting strategy should also take into 
account the clustering of request locations, total length of waiting times (tightness of 
schedule), and demand intensity. 
 
CONCLUSIONS AND SELF EVALUATION 
 
In this research we have establish a methodology to quantify the performance of a waiting 
strategy for the dynamic vehicle routing problem with time windows. It is found that the 
optimality of a waiting strategy should depend on clustering of request locations and tightness 
of the schedule, and therefore the previous proposed strategy derived from only the time 
windows and sequence of locations may not be optimal. This research opened an avenue to 
look at the problem of waiting strategies with geometric probability rather than simulation. To 
derive an exact optimal strategy, it is worth to further investigate the opportunity cost of 
inserting a new request and also the probability of taking another call if the current new 
request is rejected. 
Coslovich, L., Pesenti, R., Ukovich, W., 2006. A two-phase insertion technique of unexpected 
customers for a dynamic dial-a-ride problem. European Journal of Operational 
Research 175, 1605 – 1615. 
Diana, M., 2006. The importance of information flows temporal attributes for the efficient 
scheduling of dynamic demand responsive transport services, Journal of Advanced 
Transportation 40, 23-46. 
Fabri, A., Recht, P., 2006. On dynamic pickup and delivery vehicle routing with several time 
windows and waiting times, Transportation Research part B 40, 335-350. 
Fu, L., 1999. On-line and off-line routing and scheduling of dial-a-ride paratransit vehicles, 
Computer-aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 14, 309-319.  
Gendreau, M., F. Guertin, J.-Y. Potvin, E. Taillard. (1999) Parallel tabu search for real-time 
vehicle routing and dispatching. Transportation Science, 33, 381–390. 
Gendreau, M., Potvin, J.-Y. (1998) Dynamic vehicle routing and dispatching. In Fleet 
Management and Logistics (T. Crainic, G. Laporte, eds.). Kluwer, London, UK, 
115–126. 
Ichoua, S, M. Gendreau and J-Y. Potvin (2000) Diversion issues in real-time vehicle 
dispatching. Transportation Science, 34, 426-438.  
Ichoua, S., Gendreau, M., Potvin, J.-Y., 2006. Exploiting knowledge about future demands for 
real-time vehicle dispatching. Transportation Science 40, 211–225. 
Larsen, A., 2000. The dynamic routing problem. Ph. D. dissertation, Technical University of 
Denmark, Kongens, Lyngby, Denmark. 
Larson, R.C. and Odoni, A.R. (1981) Urban Operations Research, Prentice-Hall.  
Mitrovic-Minic, S., Krishnamurti, R. and Laporte, G., (2004) Double-horizon based heuristics 
for the dynamic pickup and delivery problem with time windows. Transportation 
Research Part B, 38, 669 – 685. 
Psaraftis, H.N. (1995) Dynamic vehicle routing: Status and prospects. Annals of Operations 
Research, 61, 143–164. 
Pureza, V., Laporte, G., 2008. Waiting and buffering strategies for the dynamic pickup and 
delivery problem with time windows. INFOR 46, 165–175. 
Teodorovic, D., Radivojevic, G., 2000. A fuzzy logic approach to dynamic dial-a-ride problem, 
Fuzzy Sets and Systems 116, 23-33. 
Tjokroamidjojo, D., Kutanoglu, E., Taylor, G.D., 2006. Quantifying the value of advance load 
information in truckload trucking. Transportation Research part E 42, 340–357. 
Wong, K.I., Yuen, C.W. and Han, Anthony F. (2009) On Dynamic Demand Responsive 
Transport Services with Degree of Dynamism. (Submitted) 
Yuen, C.W., Wong, K.I. and Han, Anthony F. (2009) Waiting strategies for the dynamic 
dial-a-ride problem. International Journal of Environment and Sustainable 
Development, Vol. 8, No.3/4, pp. 314 – 329. 
 
