1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
寬帶寬橢圓函數傳輸線帶通濾波器的合成與實現 
Synthesis and realization of wide-band elliptic function 
transmission-line bandpass filters 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-150 -083 
執行期限：100年 8月 1日至 101年 7月 31日 
主持人：李鴻銘 國立虎尾科技大學電子工程系 
計畫參與人員：歐武龍，俞彥州  
 
中文摘要 
 
在本計畫中，我們建立了一個具有橢圓函數的
傳輸線濾波器合成方法。濾波器設計由橢圓函數總集
原型開始，應用 Richards’ transform之後轉換為傳輸
線電路。為了使轉換的傳輸線電路能在平面結構上實
現，我們探討了兩種適合的耦合線電路並由其等效電
路推導設計公式。由於此傳輸線濾波器是由頻率映射
所得到的結果，因此可以直接地合成出寬帶寬的濾波
器響應。我們以一個具有 40%相對帶寬的濾波器設計
為例，其模擬與量測結果驗證了本計畫所提出之濾波
器合成方法的可行性。 
 
關鍵詞：耦合傳輸線、分散式參數濾波器、橢圓函數
濾波器，寬帶寬。 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
A direct synthesis method of elliptic function 
transmission-line filters is developed in this project. The 
filter designs start from elliptic lumped prototype filters, 
and then Richards’ transform is applied to obtain 
commensurate transmission-line circuits. To make the 
elliptic filters practicable in planar structures, two 
coupled-line structures and their equivalent circuits are 
introduced, and they can be assembled to realize the 
elliptic filters. Since the transmission-line filters are 
achieved with frequency scaling, passband filters with 
wide-bandwidth responses can be obtained directly. An 
example of fifth-order elliptic filter with a 40% 
fractional bandwidth is given. The simulation and 
measurement results have shown the feasibility of the 
proposed filter design procedure. 
 
Keywords: Coupled transmission lines, distributed 
parameter filters, elliptic-function filters, wideband. 
 
 
I. Introduction 
 
In order to meet the demand for fast-growing 
wireless communication technology, bandpass filters 
with high selectivity and compact size are always 
desired. Traditional microwave bandpass filter designs 
use lumped elements and constant coupling matrix to 
model the physical filter structure. The 
frequency-invariant coupling coefficient is good in 
describing the physical realizations of 
narrow-bandwidth filters. However, the assumption of 
constant coupling coefficients is invalid as the filter 
bandwidth becomes wider. Moreover, the model of 
lumped element may not be sufficient, especially for 
transmission-line filters. Elliptic or quasi-elliptic filters 
are usually used to enhance the selectivity in 
wide-bandwidth applications such as ultra-wideband 
systems [1]-[5]. These studies provide specific design 
equations for transmission zeros of the elliptic filters. 
However, these filters cannot be designed with 
prescribed stopband rejection level, which is also an 
important specification of filters. Therefore, a general 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 1. (a) Fifth-order elliptic function highpass filter 
prototype and (b) its frequency response. 
3 
 
2(b) shows the response of this filter, which exhibits the 
symmetry at the filter central frequency. It is clear that 
there are four transmission zeros in the stopband, of 
which the two zeros close to the passband (at 1.44 GHz 
and 2.56 GHz) are caused by the right-hand-side 
parallel short- and open-circuited stubs and the other 
two zeros (at 1.23 GHz and 2.77 GHz) are produced by 
the left-hand-side parallel short- and open-circuited 
stubs. 
To realize the elliptic filter structure, two 
symmetric-coupled-line circuits are introduced as 
shown in Fig. 3, where 0eZ  and 0oZ  are the even- and 
odd-mode characteristic impedances, respectively. The 
first coupled-line structure has two ports at the same 
side, and at the other end the lines are short- and 
open-circuited. For the second coupled-line structure 
both the lines are short-circuited at the same side. Their 
equivalent circuits can be found as depicted in Fig. 3 
[7]-[8]. Referring to the filter circuit in Fig. 2, the 
transformer of the equivalent circuit in Fig. 3(a) should 
be eliminated. This can be done by cascading two 
identical coupled-line sections as shown in Fig. 4, and 
its equivalent circuit is also given. The elliptic bandpass 
filter is then achieved by connecting the coupled-line 
structures compared to Fig. 2, as shown in Fig. 5. By 
assigning the values of 0 1 0 1( ) 2e oZ Z+  and 
0 2 0 2( ) 2e oZ Z+ , the characteristic impedances of each 
coupled lines can then be easily evaluated. In this 
example, they are given as 0 1 0 1( ) 2 33.3 e oZ Z+ = Ω  
and 0 2 0 2( ) 2 50 e oZ Z+ = Ω , and all the characteristic 
impedances can be found as those shown in Fig. 5. A 
single short-circuited stub with 0 672.1 Z = Ω  
connected to the middle coupled stubs is necessary to 
satisfy the required value of characteristic impedance of 
the stub in the filter equivalent circuit. It should be 
noted that the some short-circuited stubs can be 
 
Fig. 5. The elliptic bandpass filter realized by 
coupled-line circuits. 
 
 
Fig. 6. Final configuration of the elliptic bandpass filter. 
 
 
Fig. 7. Approximate design to combine the 
short-circuited stubs. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 8. (a) Filter configuration for realization and (b) 
electromagnetic simulation and measurement results. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 寬帶寬橢圓函數傳輸線帶通濾波器的合成與實現
計畫主持人: 李鴻銘
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-150-083- 學門領域: 電磁
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
