small animals in vivo. Therefore, we set up a reliable 
platform to analyze pulse signals of Wistar Kyoto 
rats. Traditionally, the researcher respect pulse wave 
as a stationary and linear signal, therefore the 
derived parameters such as PWV and DI are treated as 
constant data to be measure once in each time point. 
However, we found that the pulse waves measured from 
human subjects or rats are the intermixtures of 
several physical signals beside pulse volume. These 
cause unreliability of these measurements. Therefore, 
we use empirical mode decomposition (EMD) to decompose 
the originals pulse signals and extract several 
intrinsic mode functions (IMF).  
Materials and Methods: (1) Decomposition of pulse 
signals improved reproducibility of FMD. Seven adult 
WKY rats were used to check whether EMD or EEMD could 
improve reproducibility of assessing DIs. All the 
animals received two consecutive assessments of DIs at 
the interval of one week. (2) Five adult WKY rats were 
used to verify the physiological significance of IMF6, 
IMF7 and IMF8.  
Results: Decomposition of pulse signals improved 
reproducibility of the measurement of DI. The 
coefficient of variation changed from 0.351% before 
decomposition to 0.283% after decomposition. We verify 
that the IMF 7 of decomposed pulse signals is 
attributed to parasympathetic activity and IMF 8 are 
attributed to sympathetic activity. 
Conclusion: Herein, we demonstrated a reliable 
platform to assess pulse signals in rats by using 
infrared sensors and photoplethysmography. This 
instrument can be used to evaluate endothelial 
function and arterial stiffness. To decompose pulse 
signals with EMD can improve the reproducibility of 
the measurements. This instrument can be used for the 
study of pathogenesis of atherosclerosis through 
assessing the changes in endothelial function and 
furthermore be used to evaluate the efficacy of 
therapeutic regimens against atherosclerosis in animal 
models. 
 
 
 目錄 
 
中文摘要 ……………………………………………………………………………................... 1 
英文摘要 …………………………………………………………………………….................. 2 
前言 …………………………………………………………………………….................. 3 
研究目的 …………………………………………………………………………….................. 4 
文獻探討 …………………………………………………………………………….................. 4 
研究方法 …………………………………………………………………………….................. 4 
結果 …………………………………………………………………………….................. 5 
討論 …………………………………………………………………………….................. 5 
參考文獻 …………………………………………………………………………….................. 7 
成果報告自評表 …………………………………………………………………….................. 10 
 
 2
英文摘要：  
Background: Atherosclerosis-related diseases including stroke, coronary artery disease…etc. are the 
major causes of death in the developed countries. Two non-invasive measurements, pulse wave velocity 
(PWV) and dilation index (DI) have been used to assess the degree of arterial stiffness and vascular 
endothelial function wildly in clinical studies. They have been proved to be good indicators for progression of 
atherosclerosis.  
Because of the availability of suitable detectors, it is not easy to assess dilatation indices and PWV in 
small animals in vivo. Therefore, we set up a reliable platform to analyze pulse signals of Wistar Kyoto (WKY) 
rats. Traditionally, the researcher respect pulse wave as a stationary and linear signal, therefore the derived 
parameters such as PWV and DI are treated as constant data to be measure once in each time point. However, 
we found that the pulse waves measured from human subjects or rats are the intermixtures of several physical 
signals beside pulse volume. These cause unreliability of these measurements. Therefore, we use empirical 
mode decomposition (EMD) or ensemble empirical mode decomposition (EEMD) to decompose the originals 
pulse signals and extract several intrinsic mode functions (IMF). In this study, we use pharmacological 
methods to verify the physiological significance of each IMF.  
Materials and Methods: (1) Decomposition of pulse signals improved reproducibility of FMD. Seven 
adult WKY rats were used to check whether EMD or EEMD could improve reproducibility of assessing DIs. 
All the animals received two consecutive assessments of DIs at the interval of one week. (2) Five adult WKY 
rats were used to verify the physiological significance of IMF6, IMF7 and IMF8.  
Results: Decomposition of pulse signals improved reproducibility of the measurement of DI. The 
coefficient of variation changed from 0.351% before decomposition to 0.283% after decomposition. We verify 
that the IMF 7 of decomposed pulse signals is attributed to parasympathetic activity and IMF 8 are attributed 
to sympathetic activity. 
Conclusion: Herein, we demonstrated a reliable platform to assess pulse signals in rats by using infrared 
sensors and photoplethysmography. This instrument can be used to evaluate endothelial function by FMD and 
arterial stiffness by PWV. To decompose pulse signals with EMD or EEMD can improve the reproducibility 
of the measurements. This instrument can be used for the study of pathogenesis of atherosclerosis through 
assessing the changes in endothelial function and furthermore be used to evaluate the efficacy of therapeutic 
regimens against atherosclerosis in animal models. It will be very helpful in designs new drugs against 
atherosclerosis and related diseases. 
 
 
Keywords：atherosclerosis, adaptive analysis, pulse waves, endothelial function 
 4
records electrocardiogram (ECG) signals simultaneously. Therefore, PWV can be evaluated at the same time. 
 
研究目的： 
The aims of this study are (1) to set up a reliable platform to measure PWV and DI in adults rats (2) to 
use adaptive analyze to improve the reproducibility of these measurement and verify physiological 
significance of each IMF of the decomposed pulse volume wave.  
 
文獻探討： 
The PPG pulse has two components, an AC component, which is rapidly alternating and reflects the 
pulsatile nature of cardiac output, and a DC component, which changes slowly and reflects respiration [17], 
vasomotor activity and vasoconstrictor waves [18, 19], Tradube Hering Mayer (THM) waves [20] and 
thermoregulation [21]. However, a band pass filter is used to distinguish the AC component from the DC 
component. In general, because blood flow is not easy to quantitate, it is evaluated qualitatively [22].  
Stephen Hales in 18th century found that respiratory activity can modify heart rate variation and blood 
pressure oscillations in the horse [23, 24]. Similarly, this effect has also been found in human [25]. Several 
methods, such as spectral analysis and Fourier transform have been used to assess autonomic effects on pulse 
signals or heart rate interval variation [26]. Indeed, pulse signals acquired by several means, such as 
tonometry or laser Doppler are affected by several physiological activities simultaneously, including pulse 
volume, respiratory movement, autonomic activities, etc. These signals are nonlinear and nonstationary. 
Adaptive analysis of these data may reflect closely actual physiological changes.  
Hilbert-Huang Transformation (HHT) is a non-linear and non-stationary data analysis method [27, 28]. It 
has been used in many fields including analysis of biological and medical data [29, 30]. It was also be found 
that HHT is superior to Fourier-based time-frequency balanced spectral entropy in electrocardiographic data 
analysis [31]. HHT with EMD or EEMD can be used to decompose a mixed signal into many pure signals. 
The time-frequency domain of each signal can then be analyzed. Although widely applied in biology and 
medicine, HHT has rarely been used to analyze photoplethysmography (PPG) signals. PPG has been widely 
used to measure human pulse wave to assess the arterial stiffness [5, 32, 33], but PPG signals drift in response 
to respiration and environmental or involuntary perturbation. PPG signals contain pulse waves and many other 
biological signals [18]. Hence, it is a non-linear and non-stationary signal. Other devises, including laser 
Doppler [34], ultrasound [35] and tonometry [36] are used for pulse wave assessment in small animals. 
However, these devices are very expensive and not easy to operate. In our study, HHT was used to analyze 
pulse volume signals recorded from the hindlimb footpads of small animals. In addition, pulse wave signals 
were separated by the HHT from respiration signals and low frequency components attributable to autonomic 
nervous activity. 
 
研究方法： 
We used the proposed instrument to acquire pulse volume signals from the adult rats. The hardware 
block diagram of the proposed instrument is shown in figure 1 and the acquired pulse volume wave and ECG 
 6
injected with phentolamine (a sympathetic blocker) or atropine (a parasympathetic blocker) intravenously. 
The PPG signals thus obtained were analyzed with HHT. The energy intensity of IMF7 components was 
remarkably augmented by phentolamine (figure 8) and that of IMF8 components was dramatically increased 
by atropine (figure 9). 
 
2. Decomposition of pulse signals improves reproducibility of DI assessment 
Seven adult male WKY rats were used to determine whether decomposition of pulse signals improves 
reproducibility of measurement of DIs or not. Two measurements of DI separated by an interval of one week 
were carried out according to a standard protocol as described previously. Reproducibility of the measurement 
was adversely affected by pulse signal drift attributable to respiratory movements (Figure 10). The 
non-stationary pulse wave signals thus obtained were therefore converted into stationary signals using EMD 
or EEMD. DIs were calculated using signals before and after decomposition (IMF5). The discrepancies 
between the two DI measurements were calculated and assessed by Bland-Altman plot. DI was more 
reproducible when computed from IMF5 components than when computed from the original pulse signals 
(Figure 11). The better reproducibility of DI measurement after decomposition was confirmed by coefficient 
of variation from 0.351% before decomposition to 0.283% after decomposition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Figure 7 
Figure 8 Figure 9 
 8
[9] J. Yeboah, K. Sutton-Tyrrell, M. A. McBurnie, G. L. Burke, D. M. Herrington, and J. R. Crouse, 
"Association between brachial artery reactivity and cardiovascular disease status in an elderly cohort: 
the cardiovascular health study," Atherosclerosis, vol. 197, pp. 768-76, Apr 2008. 
[10] H. Brunner, J. R. Cockcroft, J. Deanfield, A. Donald, E. Ferrannini, J. Halcox, W. Kiowski, T. F. 
Luscher, G. Mancia, A. Natali, J. J. Oliver, A. C. Pessina, D. Rizzoni, G. P. Rossi, A. Salvetti, L. E. 
Spieker, S. Taddei, and D. J. Webb, "Endothelial function and dysfunction. Part II: Association with 
cardiovascular risk factors and diseases. A statement by the Working Group on Endothelins and 
Endothelial Factors of the European Society of Hypertension," J Hypertens, vol. 23, pp. 233-46, Feb 
2005. 
[11] J. N. Cohn, A. A. Quyyumi, N. K. Hollenberg, and K. A. Jamerson, "Surrogate markers for 
cardiovascular disease functional markers," Circulation, vol. 109, pp. 31-46, Jun 2004. 
[12] P. O. Bonetti, L. O. Lerman, and A. Lerman, "Endothelial dysfunction: a marker of atherosclerotic 
risk," Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol, vol. 23, pp. 168-75, Feb 1 2003. 
[13] C. Heiss, D. Finis, P. Kleinbongard, A. Hoffmann, T. Rassaf, M. Kelm, and H. Sies, "Sustained 
increase in flow-mediated dilation after daily intake of high-flavanol cocoa drink over 1 week," J 
Cardiovasc Pharmacol, vol. 49, pp. 74-80, Feb 2007. 
[14] M. Vercauteren, E. Remy, C. Devaux, B. Dautreaux, J. P. Henry, F. Bauer, P. Mulder, R. Hooft van 
Huijsduijnen, A. Bombrun, C. Thuillez, and V. Richard, "Improvement of peripheral endothelial 
dysfunction by protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors in heart failure," Circulation, vol. 114, pp. 
2498-507, Dec 5 2006. 
[15] S. Smajilovic, M. Sheykhzade, H. N. Holmegard, S. Haunso, and J. Tfelt-Hansen, "Calcimimetic, 
AMG 073, induces relaxation on isolated rat aorta," Vascul Pharmacol, vol. 47, pp. 222-8, Oct 2007. 
[16] C. Heiss, R. E. Sievers, N. Amabile, T. Y. Momma, Q. Chen, S. Natarajan, Y. Yeghiazarians, and M. L. 
Springer, "In vivo measurement of flow-mediated vasodilation in living rats using high-resolution 
ultrasound," Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol, vol. 294, pp. H1086-93, Feb 2008. 
[17] J. C. Dorlas and J. A. Nijboer, "Photo-electric plethysmography as a monitoring device in anaesthesia. 
Application and interpretation," Br J Anaesth, vol. 57, pp. 524-30, May 1985. 
[18] J. Allen, "Photoplethysmography and its application in clinical physiological measurement," Physiol 
Meas, vol. 28, pp. R1-39, Mar 2007. 
[19] B. W. Hyndman, R. I. Kitney, and B. M. Sayers, "Spontaneous rhythms in physiological control 
systems," Nature, vol. 233, pp. 339-41, Oct 1 1971. 
[20] J. B. Harness and D. Z. Marjanovic, "Low-frequency photoplethysmograph signals," Clin Phys 
Physiol Meas, vol. 10, pp. 365-8, Nov 1989. 
[21] U. Schultz-Ehrenburg and V. Blazek, "Value of quantitative photoplethysmography for functional 
vascular diagnostics. Current status and prospects," Skin Pharmacol Appl Skin Physiol, vol. 14, pp. 
316-23, Sep-Oct 2001. 
[22] K. Nakajima, T. Tamura, and H. Miike, "Monitoring of heart and respiratory rates by 
photoplethysmography using a digital filtering technique," Med Eng Phys, vol. 18, pp. 365-72, Jul 
1996. 
[23] M. V. Pitzalis, F. Mastropasqua, F. Massari, A. Passantino, R. Colombo, A. Mannarini, C. Forleo, and P. 
Rizzon, "Effect of respiratory rate on the relationships between RR interval and systolic blood pressure 
fluctuations: a frequency-dependent phenomenon," Cardiovasc Res, vol. 38, pp. 332-9, May 1998. 
[24] N. Selvaraj, A. K. Jaryal, J. Santhosh, K. K. Deepak, and S. Anand, "Influence of respiratory rate on 
the variability of blood volume pulse characteristics," J Med Eng Technol, vol. 33, pp. 370-5, 2009. 
[25] V. Novak, P. Novak, J. de Champlain, A. R. Le Blanc, R. Martin, and R. Nadeau, "Influence of 
respiration on heart rate and blood pressure fluctuations," J Appl Physiol, vol. 74, pp. 617-26, Feb 
1993. 
 10
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
附件二 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                              日期：100 年 10 月 28 日 
一、參加會議經過： 
第三屆希爾伯特－黃轉換(Hilbert-Huang Transform, HHT)：理論與應用國際研討會於二
○一一年六月二十至二十四日在中國山東省青島市中國國家海洋局第一海洋研究所舉
行。第二屆於二○○八年在中國廣州中山大學，第一屆則於二○○六年在臺灣桃園中央大
學召開。是國際間關於非線性分析特別是希爾伯特－黃轉換最重要的會議之一，大會榮譽
主席是中央研究院黃鍔院士同時也是希爾伯特－黃轉換的發明人，黃院士從美國國家太空
總署(National Aeronautics and Space Administration, NASA)退休後於二○○六回到臺灣應
聘中央大學講座教授，並籌組該校數據分析方法研究中心(Research Center for Adaptive 
Data Analysis)，因此第一次的研討會首發於他到中央大學就職之時，其後二到三年舉行一
次，此次會議有來自世界各國研究海洋科學、影像處理、氣候變遷、經濟發展、生醫訊號
及數學分析…等不同領域的學者與會，會中有專題演講、實務操作並有七十餘篇論文發
表，討論激烈，收穫豐富，所有的論文都刊登在 Advances in Adaptive Data Analysis 的特
別專刊中。 
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E－303－001－ 
計畫名稱 以非線性分析評估正常與動脈硬化大鼠脈波訊號、心律變異與內
皮細胞功能 (I) 
出國人員
姓名 劉安邦 
服務機構
及職稱 慈濟醫院 神經科 
會議時間 
2011 年 6 月 20 日
至 
2011 年 6 月 24 日 
會議地點 中國 山東 青島 
會議名稱 
(中文)第三屆希爾伯特－黃轉換：理論與應用國際研討會    
(英文) The Third International Conference on the Hilbert-Huang 
Transform: Theory and Applications (HHT-3) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 大鼠心血管與自主神經訊號的分析 
(英文) To Analyze Cardiovascular and Autonomic Signals in a 
Rat Model  
康教授與北京大學生物醫學工程學系方競教授高度的興趣，經過會後充分的溝通兩位教授給
我們許多寶貴的意見，目前論文已經寫作完成，準備投稿中。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) ：無 
四、建議： 
參加本次研討會讓我瞭解是學術交流與國際視野開拓的重要性，特別是跨足新的研究領
域時。在與大師的交流的過程中，藉由提問與答辯間，可以立即解答許多研究時的疑惑與瓶
頸；也可從會議中的 symposium, poster 和 oral presentation，讓我們對整體研究趨勢脈動有些
許的了解，有助我們掌握新的研究方向。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容： 
本次會議的詳細議程及一本大會論文摘要集。  
六、其他： 
左圖：羅孟宗博士(中央大學)、吳賢財教授(東華大學)、黃鍔院士、周雨田研究員(中央
研究院) 、本人。 
右圖：彭仲康教授(哈佛大學)、黃鍔院士、周雨田研究員(中央研究院) 、吳賢財教授(東
華大學)、本人。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (DOUBLE-CLICK HERE TO EDIT) < 
 
1 
 
 
Abstract —Biological signals are the results of a mixture of 
complex physiological processes of different significance. Using 
Hilbert-Huang Transformation (HHT), this study aimed at 
investigating the intrinsic meanings of some of the hidden signals 
acquired through photoplethysmography (PPG), focusing on the 
cardiovascular and autonomic activities. PPG signals acquired 
from the hindlimb of male adult Wistar Kyoto rats (n = 21) were 
decomposed using HHT to obtain individual intrinsic mode 
function (IMF) of different series. Vascular endothelial function 
was assessed by comparing signals before and after reactive 
hyperemia-induced vasodilatation with and without HHT. The 
autonomic significance of low-frequency IMF components was 
investigated by removing high-frequency signals with digital filters 
and administrating sympathetic and parasympathetic blockers (i.e. 
phentolamine and atropine, respectively) to the animals with 
monitoring of corresponding changes in PPG signals. IMF 
components denoting pulse wave signals, respiratory movement, 
sympathetic and parasympathetic activities were obtained after 
HHT on PPG signals. Data on endothelial function were more 
consistent and reproducible using signals with HHT treatment 
compared with those without. Sympathetic and parasympathetic 
blockade identified IMF7 and IMF8 as parasympathetic and 
sympathetic activities, respectively. Using a rat model, the present 
study demonstrated that not only could HHT refine PPG signals to 
enable more accurate assessment of vascular endothelial 
dysfunction, but it also allowed the assessment of sympathetic and 
parasympathetic activities. 
Index Terms —Photoplepthysmography, vascular endothelial 
function, Hilbert-Huang transformation, cardiovascular and 
autonomic signals. 
 
 
Manuscript received March 22, 2011. This research was supported in part by 
the National Science Council under Grants NSC 99-2221-E-259-001, and NSC 
99-2221-E-303-001, Taiwan, Republic of China. Asterisk indicates 
corresponding Author. 
*Hsien-Tsai Wu is with the Electrical Engineering Department, National 
Dong Hwa University, No. 1, Sec. 2, Da-Hsueh Rd., Shoufeng, Hualien, Taiwan 
97401. (e-mail address: dsphans@mail.ndhu.edu.tw )  
Cyuan-Cin Liu, An-Bang Liu, Yu-Cheng Lin and Chun-Cheng Yang are 
with the Electrical Engineering Department, National Dong Hwa University, No. 
1, Sec. 2, Da-Hsueh Rd., Shoufeng, Hualien, Taiwan 97401. (e-mail: 
d9723001@ems.ndhu.edu.tw, m9823012@ems.ndhu.edu.tw, d9623004@ 
ems.ndhu.edu.tw) 
An-Bang Liu is with Department of Neurology, Buddhist Tzu Chi General 
Hospital and Buddhist Tzu Chi University, Hualien, Taiwan 97002. (e-mail: 
liuab@mail.tcu.edu.tw) 
Cheuk-Kwan Sun is with the Division of General Surgery, Surgery 
Department, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital – Kaohsiung Medical Center, 
Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Taiwan 83301. (e-mail: 
cksun6985@adm.cgmh.org.tw) 
Men-Tzung Lo is with Research Center for Adaptive Data Analysis & Center 
for Dynamical Biomarkers and Translational Medicine, National Central 
University, Chungli, Taiwan 32001. (e-mail: mzlo@ncu.edu.tw) 
I. INTRODUCTION 
espite the non-stationary nature of complex physiological 
signals including heart rate, blood pressure, and respiratory 
rate [1], signal sampling for assessment of specific physiological 
function is usually performed over a brief period on the 
assumption that the signals are stationary. Evaluation of 
endothelial dysfunction and the degree of atherosclerosis in 
animals using invasive procedures including insertion of catheter 
into the thoracic or abdominal aorta [2], [3] or adopting 
non-invasive approaches including sonography [4] and laser 
Doppler signal analysis [5], [6] have been previously reported. 
In addition to cadiovascualr monitoring, attempt was made to 
non-invasively monitor respiratory signals through analyzing the 
breath-to-breath (BB) interval [7]. All of these techniques 
analyzed a specific segment of physiological signals for direct 
processing to provide information on the physiological status of 
the animals [2]-[7].  
Compared with these research tools, photoplethysmography 
(PPG) has the distinct advantage of being low-cost and 
easy-to-operate. Although the clinical application of PPG has 
been validated in assessing the degree of atherosclerosis [8]-[13], 
reports on its use in animal experiments are rare. Regardless of 
the research instrument chosen, the signals thus obtained contain 
a myriad of undesired physiological signals and also interferencs 
of non-biological origins such as those from the equipment itself 
which are the potential sources of error in data interpretation. 
An effective analytical tool for filtrating the crude signals, 
therefore, is desired for enhancing the accuracy of the 
physiological information. 
Wu et al. [14] have previously reported the successful clinical 
use of Hilbert-Huang Transformation (HHT) [14]-[17] in 
normal and diabetic human subjects. On the other hand, some 
low-frequency signals of physiological origins remain to be 
identified. By applying PPG in an animal model, this study aimed 
at elucidating the significance of HHT in signal processing and 
the physiological meanings of the unidentified signals thus 
acquired using pharmological stimulation. 
The structure of this study is as follows: Animal use, the 
methodology section described the application of HHT, and the 
study protocol. The section on results reported the findings of 
using HHT for decomposing simulated signals and also 
physiological signals from animals. The results obtained through 
digital filter and pharmacological experiments were also 
described, followed by the sections of discussion and 
conclusions. 
Cardiovascular and Autonomic Signals in a Rat Model 
Cyuan-Cin Liu, Hsien-Tsai Wu
*
, Member, IEEE, An-Bang Liu, Yu-Cheng Lin, Cheuk-Kwan Sun ,  
Chun-Cheng Yang and Men-Tzung Lo 
D 
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (DOUBLE-CLICK HERE TO EDIT) < 
 
3 
apply to it again the sifting process. The process of finding more 
intrinsic modes ci(t) continues until the last mode is found. The 
final residue will be a constant or a monotonic function; in this 
last case it will be the general trend of the data. As a result, the 
signal  x t  can be expressed as 
     
1
n
t c t r ti n
i
x  

 (7) 
Thus, one achieves a decomposition of the data into 
n-empirical IMF modes, plus a residue, rn(t) , which can be either 
the mean trend or a constant [15]. 
b). Ensemble empirical mode decomposition (EEMD) 
The Ensemble Empirical Mode Decomposition (EEMD) is a 
noise assisted data analysis method of which the main part is the 
EMD. The EMD algorithm have some problems, this problem is 
the frequent appearance of mode mixing, which is a 
consequence of signal intermittency defined as a single IMF 
either consisting of signals of widely disparate scales, or a signal 
of a similar scale residing in different IMF components, has been 
reported to be one of the major drawbacks of the original EMD. 
The intermittence could not only cause ambiguity in the 
time-frequency distribution, but also obscure the physical 
meaning of individual IMF [14]-[16]. To encounter this problem, 
EEMD proposed by Huang was adopted in the current study. 
The EEMD method consists of an ensemble of data 
decompositions with added white noise and then treats the 
resultant mean as the final true result. The principle of EEMD is 
to add effect and adequate of white noise wm(t) to original signal 
 x t , which populates the whole time-frequency space uniformly 
with the constituent components of different scales separated by 
a filter bank. The EEMD process is explained as follows: 
1). Add effect and adequate of white noise series wm(t) to the 
targeted data  x t , the m
th
 “artificial” observation will be 
     x t x t w tm m 
 (8) 
2). Decompose  mx t  into a number of IMFs with EMD sifting 
process. 
3). Obtain the (ensemble) means of corresponding IMFs of the 
decompositions as the final result. 
The result of EEMD is obtained when the number in the 
ensemble approaches infinity: 
      
1
, ,
1
lim
n
x
m
m i m mx t c t r t
N

 
   (9) 
in which 
, ( ) ( )i m mc t r t  (10) 
is the i
th
 realization of the m
th
 IMF in the noise-added signal, α is 
the standard deviation of the added noise, and r(t) is the residual 
after extracting the first k IMF components. The number of the 
trials in the ensemble, N, has to be large. In our study, α is set to 
be 0.2 and N is equal to 200 for easy computing [16], [18]. 
c). Hilbert transform (HT) and marginal spectrum 
The HHT represents the signal being analyzed in the 
time-frequency domain by combining the EEMD with the 
Hilbert transform. In contrast to the Fourier spectral analysis by 
which a series of sine and cosine functions of constant 
amplitudes are used to represent each constituent frequency 
components in the signal, the HHT technique is based on the 
instantaneous frequency calculation that results from the Hilbert 
transform of the signal. Generally, the Hilbert transform 
 mx tH   
 for any signal  mx t  is defined as 
( )1[ ( )] ( ) ,
xm
tmH x t Y t g d

     (11) 
where  mx tH   
 denotes the Hilbert transform operation, g is 
Cauchy principle value. Theoretically, any analytic signal Y(t) 
can be expressed by the sum of its real part p(t) and imaginary 
part q(t), with the latter being the Hilbert transform of the real 
part. This result in 
( ) ( ) ( ).Y t p t jq t   (12) 
Equation (12) can be rewritten in a polar coordinate system as 
( )
( ) ( ) ,j tY t a t e   (13) 
where 
2 2
( ) ( ) ( )a t p t q t   (14) 
1 ( )
( ) tan ( )
( )
q t
t
p t



 (15) 
 
represents the instantaneous amplitude and phase of the analytic 
signal, respectively. From the instantaneous phase θ(t), the 
instantaneous frequency ω(t) of the signal can be derived as 
 
.
2 2
( ( )) '( ) ( ) ( ) '( )
( )
( ) ( )
d t q t p t q t p t
t
dt p t q t



 

 (16) 
Accordingly, the real part of the signal p(t) can be written in 
terms of the amplitude and instantaneous frequency as a 
time-dependent function 
    ( )( ) Re Re ( ) ,j ttp t Y a t e    (17) 
where the symbol Re{Y(t)} denotes the real part of the analytic 
signal Y(t). To ensure that the instantaneous frequency obtained 
from the derivative operation in (16) is physically meaningful, 
the instantaneous phase θ(t) must be a single-valued function 
over time, i.e., a mono-component function. Since the 
instantaneous phase θ(t) is constructed from  mx t  and its 
Hilbert transform, as shown in (14)-(15), it follows  mx t  that 
must also be a mono-component function. Equation (17) enables 
us to represent the amplitude and the instantaneous frequency, in 
a three-dimensional plot, in which the amplitude is the height in 
the time frequency plane. This time-frequency distribution is 
designated as the Hilbert-Huang spectrum H(ω,t): 
 ( )( , ) Re ( ) .j t dtH t a t e    (18) 
With the Hilbert-Huang spectrum defined, we can also define 
the marginal spectrum, h(ω), as 
.),()(
0
dttHh
T
   (19) 
The marginal spectrum offers a measure of total amplitude (or 
energy) contribution from each frequency value. 
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (DOUBLE-CLICK HERE TO EDIT) < 
 
5 
results when applied to the same set of signals. An example of 
the outcome of signal analysis using the Meyer model is shown 
in Fig. 3c. Of the three models of WT adopted in this study (i.e. 
Morlet, Meyer, and Db2 models), the Meyer model was found 
to yield the best resolution in both the time and frequency 
domains. 
 
B. Decomposition of Pulse Wave 
The results of analysis on the simulated signals demonstrated 
a superiority of HHT to the other two approaches. The finding 
supported the use of HHT for the decomposition of the 
physiological PPG signals from the animals in this study. 
Through applying an infrared sensor on the footpad of the 
hindlimb as mentioned above, nine IMFs were obtained in which 
IMF5 showed synchronicity with the arterial pulse waves with 
an energy intensity locating between 4 Hz to 8 Hz (Fig. 4). On 
the other hand, IMF1-IMF4 could be regarded as 
high-frequency noises, while IMF6-IMF8 were low-frequency 
signals of unknown physiological origins and IMF9 represented 
the trend of the signals (Fig. 4)[22]. Therefore, IMF5 was 
adopted for subsequent analysis on vascular endothelial function 
(Group 1), whereas IMF6, IMF7, and IMF8 were analyzed 
using digital filter and pharmacological experiments to identify 
their physiological significance. 
C. Comparison of Reproducibility of DI Data Acquired through 
Original Pulse Signals and IMF5 
PPG-acquired signals were obtained twice for each animal in 
Group 1 (n = 7). DI was calculated using the original pulse 
signals and IMF5. The discrepancies in DI from each animal was 
calculated and assessed with Bland-Altman plot (Fig. 5). The 
results demonstrated that the computed DI from IMF5 exhibited 
a better reproducibility compared with that from the original 
pulse signals. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Decomposition of photoplethysmography (PPG)-acquired 
physiological signals using Hilbert-Huang Transformation (HHT), showing 
nine intrinsic mode functions (IMFs). Note the synchronicity between IMF5 
and the original waveforms with similar energy intensity between 4 -8 Hz. 
Fig. 2. Decomposition of simulated signals f(t) into seven intrinsic mode 
functions (IMFs) using EEMD. 
Fig. 3. Time-frequency domain of the synthetic signal. (a) Hilbert-Huang 
Transformation. (b) Short-time Fourier Transform of the synthetic signal, 
window size: 102.4 ms. (c) Wavelet transform of the synthetic signal, basic 
wavelet function: Meyer. The parameters are set a = 4096, b = 4096 in (21) 
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (DOUBLE-CLICK HERE TO EDIT) < 
 
7 
choosing specific parameter for HHT which can yield more 
satisfactory results. 
The pulse signals acquired from the infrared sensor of PPG 
consist of a myriad of physiological information and mechanical 
interference that give rise to the drifting phenomenon. HHT 
helps in removing the unwanted signals to enhance the 
sensitivity of the specific physiological parameter being analyzed. 
The orthogonal subsignals thus acquired (i.e. IMFs) may 
represent specific physiological parameters. For instance, our 
results showed that IMF5 is the arterial pulse signals. Although 
DI calculated from the original pulse signals and that from IMF5 
both showed a satisfactory reproducibility (i.e. within ± 1.96x) 
(Fig. 5), there was a significant increase in reproducibility of DI 
computed from IMF5. 
PPG signals have been reported to contain respiratory 
component [27] that has been identified to be a contributor to 
the drifting phenomenon [28] which, in turn, adversely affects 
the accuracy of subsequent analysis. It has been demonstrated 
that the respiratory component can be extracted from PPG 
signals with a digital filter [20]. In the current study, IMF6 was 
shown to show complete synchronousity with the respiratory 
movement obtained through digital filtration, suggesting that 
IMF6 represents the respiratory component of the PPG signals. 
After elucidating the physiological significance of IMF5 and 
IMF6, we attempted to unveil the identities of the remaining two 
low-frequency signals (i.e. IMF7 and IMF8). Since it has been 
reported that the low-frequency signals may represent 
autonomic neural activities [23]-[26], we adopted a 
pharmacological approach for verification. A previous study has 
adopted HHT to analyze the variation in R-R intervals on 
electrocardiogram after atropine-induced blockade of 
parasympathetic function [29]. The results of that study 
demonstrated a significant enhancement of energy intensity at a 
frequency range of 0-1 Hz, suggesting a sympathetic activity 
within that range. Consistently, we used atropine for 
parasympathetic blockade and noted a remarkable elevation in 
the energy intensity of IMF8 within a frequency range of 0-0.5 
Hz (Fig. 7b). Our finding, therefore, suggests that IMF8 
represents the sympathetic activities in PPG signals. Similar 
manipulation using phentolamine for sympathetic blockade 
indicates that IMF7 is likely to be the parasympathetic 
component of the PPG signals (Fig. 7a). 
There are, however, limitations in the current study. First, 
HHT requires a large volume of computations that precludes 
immediate acquisition of results. Off-line analyses are also 
necessary. Second, since PPG signals are easily affected by 
vibrations, data collection from animals without anesthesia is not 
possible. The approach is, on the other hand, still practical for 
human subjects. Finally, the animal models adopted in this study 
were normal rats and the pathological impact on IMFs was not 
investigated. 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
Using a rat model, this study successfully elucidated the 
physiological meanings of orthogonal subsignals generated from 
decomposition of PPG-acquired signals. The potential 
non-invasive application of this technique has also been 
extended, including more effective assessment of vascular 
endothelial function as well as sympathetic and parasympathetic 
activities. Our findings, therefore, may aid in early detection of 
endothelial dysfunction and providing a non-invasive means of 
monitoring autonomic activities for patients with related 
disorders. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
A tribute is paid to Mr. Chang-Sheng Lu, who is the research 
assistant at Buddhist Tzu Chi General Hospital, for performing 
the animal operations in this study. We are also grateful to Texas 
Instruments, Taiwan, for providing us with the low power 
amplifier in this study. This research was partly supported by 
National Science Council under Grants 
NSC99-2221-E-259-001, and NSC99-2221-E-303-001, 
Taiwan, Republic of China. 
REFERENCES 
[1] M. D. Costa, C. K. Peng, and A. L. Goldberger, “Multiscale analysis of 
heart rate dynamics: Entropy and time irreversibility measures,” 
Cardiovascular Engineering, vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 88-93, 2008. 
[2] J. M. Chillon, C. Capdeville-Atkinson, I. Lartaud, J. Guillou, P. M. Mertes, 
and J. Atkinson, “Chronic antihypertensive treatment with captopril plus 
hydrochlorothiazide improves aortic distensibility in the spontaneously 
hypertensive rat,” Br J Pharmacol, vol. 107, no. 3, pp. 710-714, 1992. 
[3] V. Marque, P. Kieffer, J. Atkinson, and I. Lartaud-Idjouadiene, “Elastic 
properties and composition of the aortic wall in old spontaneously 
hypertensive rats,” Hypertension, vol. 34, no. 3, pp. 415-422, 1999. 
[4] C. Heiss, R. E. Sievers, N. Amabile, T. Y. Momma, Q. Chen, S. Natarajan 
et al., “In vivo measurement of flow-mediated vasodilation in living rats 
using high-resolution ultrasound,” Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol, vol. 
294, no. 2, pp. H1086-1093, 2008. 
[5] D. Sigaudo-Roussel, C. Demiot, B. Fromy, A. Koitka, G. Leftheriotis, P. 
Abraham et al., “Early endothelial dysfunction severely impairs skin blood 
flow response to local pressure application in streptozotocin-induced 
diabetic mice,” Diabetes, vol. 53, no. 6, pp. 1564-1569, 2004. 
[6] K. Thomsen, I. Rubin, and M. Lauritzen, “NO- and non-NO-, 
non-prostanoid-dependent vasodilatation in rat sciatic nerve during 
maturation and developing experimental diabetic neuropathy,” J Physiol, 
vol. 543, no. Pt 3, pp. 977-993, 2002. 
[7] T. Bojic, J. Saponjic, M. Radulovacki, D. W. Carley, and A. Kalauzi, 
“Monotone Signal Segments Analysis as a novel method of breath 
detection and breath-to-breath interval analysis in rat,” Respir Physiol 
Neurobiol, vol. 161, no. 3, pp. 273-280, 2008. 
[8] P. J. Chowienczyk, R. P. Kelly, H. MacCallum, S. C. Millasseau, T. L. 
Andersson, R. G. Gosling et al., “Photoplethysmographic assessment of 
pulse wave reflection: blunted response to endothelium-dependent 
beta2-adrenergic vasodilation in type II diabetes mellitus,” J Am Coll 
Cardiol, vol. 34, no. 7, pp. 2007-2014, 1999. 
[9] S. C. Millasseau, R. P. Kelly, J. M. Ritter, and P. J. Chowienczyk, 
“Determination of age-related increases in large artery stiffness by digital 
pulse contour analysis,” Clin Sci (Lond), vol. 103, no. 4, pp. 371-377, 
2002. 
[10] W. C. Tsai, J. Y. Chen, M. C. Wang, H. T. Wu, C. K. Chi, Y. K. Chen et 
al., “Association of risk factors with increased pulse wave velocity 
detected by a novel method using dual-channel photoplethysmography,” 
Am J Hypertens, vol. 18, no. 8, pp. 1118-1122, 2005. 
[11] S. R. Alty, N. Angarita-Jaimes, S. C. Millasseau, and P. J. Chowienczyk, 
“Predicting arterial stiffness from the digital volume pulse waveform,” 
IEEE Trans Biomed Eng, vol. 54, no. 12, pp. 2268-2275, 2007. 
[12] H. T. Wu, C. C. Liu, P. H. Lin, H. M. Chung, M. C. Liu, H. K. Yip et al., 
“Novel application of parameters in waveform contour analysis for 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/28
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以非線性分析評估正常與動脈硬化大鼠脈波訊號、心律變異與內皮細胞功能
計畫主持人: 劉安邦
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-303-001- 學門領域: 醫用電子
無研發成果推廣資料
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他協
助產業技術發展之具
體效益事項等，請以
文字敘述填列。) 
在這一年的研究中我們完成的利用紅外線感測器與容積波描繪設置大鼠脈波的
量測平台，也同時建立脈波傳導速度與血管擴張指數量測的標準流程，除此之
外我們還使用經驗模態分解將原始資料分解為數個本質模態函數，利用藥理與
生理學的方法驗證每一本質模態函數的生理意義，同時也藉由 EMD 或 EEMD 的解
構，使我們測得更穩定的血管擴張指數，回顧文獻目前在大鼠並無相似的量測
平台與研究方法。一年來我們已在國際會議發表兩篇論文，其中一篇文章已投
稿 SCI 期刊，目前接受審查中。我們的成果將來可以運用在糖尿病、高血壓、
高血脂、中風…等大鼠模型，除了可以用來深入研究這類疾病的致病機轉外，
也可以提供新藥研發時藥物療效監測的平台，以提昇國內製藥競爭力，促進健
康照護的能力。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
