行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※
※具有形變通道與完全金屬矽化閘極之互補式金氧半電晶體的※ 
※製造與分析                          ※                                        
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－009－207－MY2 
執行期間：96 年 08 月 01 日 至 97 年 07 月 31日 
 
計畫主持人：黃調元 教授 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：盧景森、蔡子儀、陳玲、李冠樟、張佑寧、林
政頤、陳政建 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
執行單位：國立交通大學電子工程研究所 
 
 
 
 
中 華 民 國 98  年  7  月 31  日 
 3 
carrier mobility and thus drive current has 
recently received a lot of attention [8-16]. 
Several approaches have been reported to induce 
compressive channel strain beneficial for 
improving the hole mobility, including embedded 
SiGe in the source/drain (S/D) region [10,11] and 
the SiN contact etch-stop layer (CESL) [12-14]. 
The latter approach is typically carried out by 
depositing the SiN layer using plasma-enhanced 
chemical vapor deposition (PECVD). In contrast 
to the complex and costly SiGe refill scheme, the 
simplicity and maturity of the PECVD SiN 
(PE-SiN) process seem much more attractive and 
practical. Although strain channel could boost 
device performance, the strain energy stored in 
the channel and a high amount of hydrogen 
species contained in the PE-SiN layer could 
potentially worsen the NBTI reliability [15,16]. 
To address this issue, this work presents a new 
approach by inserting a thin buffer layer prior to 
SiN capping for suppressing hydrogen diffusion 
into the channel. 
 
三、研究方法及成果 
研究方法 
PMOSFETs in this study were fabricated on 
6-inch n-type Si wafers with conventional local 
oxidation of silicon (LOCOS) isolation. Gate 
oxide with a thickness of 3nm was grown in a 
vertical furnace in O2 at 800°C. After gate oxide 
growth, a 200nm-thick polycrystalline silicon 
(poly-Si) was deposited by low-pressure chemical 
vapor deposition (LPCVD), followed by standard 
plasma gate-etch to form the patterned gate. 
Afterwards, standard procedures were applied to 
form tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) spacer and S/D 
junctions. Subsequently, a rapid thermal 
annealing at 900°C for 30 s was performed to 
activate dopants in the gate and S/D regions. A 
300nm-thick PE-SiN was then deposited onto the 
device surface, followed by the deposition of 
TEOS passivation by PECVD. For some 
SiN-capped samples, a 3nm-thick HfO2 buffer 
layer deposited by metal-organic chemical vapor 
deposition (MOCVD) was capped prior to SiN 
deposition (denoted as HfO2-buffered split). 
Contact holes and metallization processes were 
subsequently performed. Finally, the processing 
steps were completed with a forming gas anneal 
at 400°C. Electrical characteristics were 
measured using an Agilent 4156 system. NBTI 
stress measurements were performed using a 
temperature-regulated hot chuck at 125°C. 
Interface traps were evaluated using charge 
pumping method with fixed amplitude of 1.5 V at 
1 MHz. 
研究成果 
The stress of PE-SiN layer with and without 
an HfO2 buffer layer (3 nm) was first examined 
by probing blanket monitor samples deposited on 
Si wafers. We confirmed that the stress was 
compressive in nature with a magnitude of 
around -700 MPa for all samples, irrespective of 
the HfO2 presence. This indicates that the 
insertion of such ultra-thin buffer layer will not 
relax the strain introduced by the SiN capping. 
The thickness measured from cross-sectional 
transmission electron microscope (TEM) pictures 
for SiN and HfO2 layer is about 310 nm and 3 nm, 
respectively, as shown in Figs.1 (a) and (b). 
Figure 2 compares transconductance data for all 
splits with channel width/length (W/L) = 10μm 
/0.4 μm. It can be seen that the transconductance 
of all SiN-capped samples, with or without HfO2 
buffer layer, depicts significant and identical 
enhancement of around 26% with respect to that 
 5 
transconductance degradation is alleviated for 
HfO2-buffered split. These results clearly indicate 
that the use of PE-SiN capping may aggravate 
NBTI, while the insertion of HfO2 buffer layer 
can be helpful to relieve the situation. In short, 
although the SiN capping tends to worsen the 
device reliability characteristics, the insertion of a 
thin HfO2 buffer layer between the gate and the 
SiN can effectively shield the device against the 
degradation.  
These findings are postulated to be related 
to the hydrogen species contained in the PE-SiN 
layer. Owing to the use of SiH4 and NH3 as the 
reaction precursors, the deposited SiN contains 
abundant hydrogen, as confirmed by the Fourier 
transform infrared spectrometer (FTIR) analysis 
shown in Fig. 12. In this figure, visible H-bonding 
signals from the PE-SiN layer can be detected by 
FTIR, indicating that the film indeed contains a 
substantial amount of hydrogen. Thus it acts as a 
diffusion source for hydrogen to diffuse into the 
channel during the deposition process and 
subsequent thermal cycles, including the forming 
gas anneal. Although hydrogen can effectively 
passivate the dangling bonds at the SiO2/Si 
interface, the passivated Si-H bonds are more 
easily broken during subsequent stressing, so the 
voluminous hydrogen species aggravate NBTI. 
The insertion of a thin HfO2 buffer layer between 
the gate and SiN capping can effectively suppress 
the diffusion of hydrogen into the gate oxide and 
oxide/channel interface, resulting in less 
passivated Si-H bonds and thus less 
newly-generated interface states during stressing 
as compared with the SiN-capped split. It is well 
known that the deposited HfO2 layers typically 
contain a high density of structural defects 
[19,20]. We postulate that these defects tend to 
trap the hydrogen species diffusing during the 
SiN deposition and subsequent thermal cycles. As 
a result, the inserted HfO2 acts as a diffusion 
barrier for hydrogen.  
In this study, the thickness of the HfO2 
buffer is fixed at 3 nm. Such a thin buffer layer 
would not compromise the performance gain 
obtained from the channel strain. In the meantime, 
the immunity against NBTI degradation is clearly 
demonstrated. However, it should be noted that 
the optimum thickness is yet to be determined. In 
this aspect more effort is in progress, and it is 
expected that further improvement in NBTI 
immunity is possible when the condition is 
optimized. 
 
四、結論與討論 
SiN-capped PMOSFETs with a thin HfO2 
buffer layer were fabricated and characterized in 
this study. Although the SiN layer tends to 
worsen the NBTI characteristics, our results 
demonstrate the usefulness of inserting a buffer 
layer in relieving the situation. Furthermore, no 
performance gain from the channel strain is 
compromised at all as the buffer layer is inserted. 
Such improvement is ascribed to the suppression 
of hydrogen diffusion from the SiN to the gate 
oxide and the oxide/channel interface with the 
insertion of the buffer layer.  
 
References 
[1] S. Ogawa et al., J. Appl. Phys., 1995, vol.77, p.1137. 
[2] C. H. Liu et al., Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., 2002, vol.41, 
p.2423. 
[3] D. K. Schroder et al., J. Appl. Phys., 2003, vol.94, p.1. 
[4] X. J. Zhou et al., Appl. Phys. Lett., 2004, vol.84, 
p.4394. 
 7 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Transconductance versus VG-Vth for all 
splits of samples. For the SiN-capped devices, 
with or without inserting the buffer layer, the 
transconductance is clearly increased with 
respective to the control. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Output characteristics of PMOSFETs for 
all splits. The insertion of the HfO2 buffer in the 
SiN-capped device does not compromise the 
drive current enhancement with respective to the 
control. 
 
 
Fig. 4 Transconductance increase versus channel 
length. Each datum point represents the mean 
measurement result performed on eight devices. 
 
Fig. 5 Capacitance-Voltage (C-V) characteristics 
of all splits. The curves are almost coincided with 
each other, indicating that the oxide thickness 
difference among the three splits is negligible. 
 
Fig. 6 Subthreshold characteristics of all splits. 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
參加 2008 國際電子元件會議 
(2008 International Electron Devices Meeting) 
心得報告 
 
報告人：黃調元 
 3 
二、目的 
IEDM會議為 IEEE Electron Devices Society所主辦，是關於電子元件及其製程技
術方面最新進展的旗艦會議，可說是半導體業界及電子領域學術界從事新穎電
子元件研發人員及學者一年一度，聚在一堂，交換資訊的最重要場合。此行主
要目的在與世界各大半導體廠及電子領域學術界的相關研發人員交換心得。另
外藉此機會，對於相關的半導體技術的最新發展，也可和國外的學者專家及業
界先進進行深入的技術交流，吸收相關新知，與瞭解現今超大型積體電路元件
及製程技術之發展概況，以供未來實驗團隊的研發方針參考。
 5 
四、達成任務 
 
此次參加 2008 IEDM 會議，所攜回之技術資料，含 IEDM Technical Digests，
CDROM，及廠商一些宣傳資料等，已存入研究群藏書資料庫，可供研究群日後
參考。此行參加大會會議論文宣讀，Evening Sessions，及相關討論場合，和與會
的專家學者作廣泛的技術交流，並有機會與論文宣讀者及研究群詢問更詳盡深入
的技術細節及相關問題，得以對技術深層的一些細節及瓶頸作溝通討論及瞭解。
另參與大會相關活動，達成增進台灣參加國際活動的目的與任務。
 7 
HK/MG應用於(110)Si，而在 1V偏壓下，獲得高達 1.2mA/um的 p-channel 元件
的驅動電流，而其漏電流僅有 100nA/um。另外，國內長庚大學也發表以 CF4電
漿處理過的 HFO2為介電質，TaN為閘極的元件特性分析(包括 NBTI及 PBTI特
性)。 
 
為了降低供應電壓，如何將元件的次臨界斜率(subthreshold slope，SS)降低
至傳統的 60mV/dec極限之下，也是近年來熱門的研究課題，及本研究群的一個
研究目標。 此種元件稱之為超陡斜率場效電晶體(Steep Slope FET)，在本會議的
Late News 論文中，Stanford 大學及英特爾發表了以 double-gate strained-Ge 
heterostructure的 Tunneling FET (TFET)，克服了先前 TFET的驅動電流不大的缺
點，而達到高達 300uA/um的空前驅動電流，且依然保有 50mV/dec的低 SS值。
另外，柏克萊大學也提出一新穎的超陡斜率場效電晶體，取名為 Feedback 
FET(FB-FET) ，其原理是利用一 thin-body forward-biased p+-i-n+ diode with a 
partially gated intrinsic region，可以達到非常低的 SS值(約 2 mV/dec)，且其 Ion/Ioff
比可高達 108。而瑞士的研究團隊也首度以實驗證實了以鐵電材質作閘極介電層
(註: 該團隊以 P(VDF-TrFE)/SiO2 stack為材質)，可以達到 13mV/dec的低次臨界
斜率。 
 
在本會議中，IBM也發表了堪稱史上最小的 6T-SRAM cell，利用 22奈米
技術，高數值孔徑 (high numerical aperature)的浸潤式微影 (immersion 
lithography)，作出面積只有 0.09 um2的 SRAM cell。另外，歐系的 DRAM廠奇
夢達 (Qimoda，其母公司為英飛凌，Infenion) 也發表了史上最小的 DRAM cell，
面積只有 0.013 um2，令人額首稱奇。可惜技術上的創新突破，也難以抵擋此波
