I 
 
摘要 
  在這個計畫中，我們主要研究目地是探討如何在車載隨意網路中設計有效的路由策略
及叢集演算法。因為行動隨意網路與車載隨意網路有所不同，其中以網路拓樸及節點移動
樣式的差異將大幅影響網路效能。所以針對行動隨意網路的路由策略及叢集演算法無法有
效的應用於車載隨意網路之中。在路由策略方面，提出以位置為基礎並結合電子地圖及行
車資訊的轉交策略，利用地圖資訊選擇有效的最短路由路徑，利用車輛的行車資訊做位置
及行駛方向的預測，並且強化轉送策略的穩定性。在叢集演算法方面，提出一個以中心位
置與行動節點移動性為基底的叢集演算法。使得叢集首與叢集成員之間的平均距離縮短，
減少叢集重建的次數、增加叢集成員的數量、延長每個行動節點在叢集內的時間、減短每
個行動節點不在叢集的時間。最後我們使用網路模擬軟體驗證我們所提出的路由策略及叢
集演算法，並且從實驗數據可以清楚得知我們所提之方法能夠有效提升車載隨意網路的效
能。 
 
 
關鍵字：車載網路、路由協定、地理資訊、叢集 
1 
 
1 前言 
  在車載隨意網路(Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks, VANET)中許多服務的提供，都必須基礎在
一個良好的通訊系統，所以一個有效的通訊系統是不可或缺的。有效的通訊系統必須基於
穩定且可靠的路由策略，因此設計高效的路由策略是非常重要的一個研究議題。由於車載
隨意網路是基於車輛與路邊單元所組成的網路，若能將車輛的移動及地圖資訊納入路由策
略設計時的考量，將有助於效能的提升。車載隨意網路中的節點移動性具有可預測的性質。
實務上若能知道節點的實際位置，可以提供最佳的路由路徑。但也因車載隨意網路的節點
移動特性，以及現實環境中存在的障礙物遮蔽問題，使得尋找及維護路由是非常具挑戰性
的工作。 
  隨意網路下行動節點的無線傳輸會因為移動的行進而影響通訊頻寬，在過去的研究中
可以得知不同型態的網路，藉由階層式叢集方式來改善通訊的品質，減少網路下行動節點
各自的負擔。其中在行動隨意網路(Mobile Ad-hoc Network, MANET)中的叢集化也被證實有
一定的效能貢獻[1]。叢集結構可以把一群行動節點視為叢集，並且在叢集內部選出一個適
合的行動節點負責資料傳輸，同時也是叢集之間的中繼點，負責與其他叢集的通訊。 
  為了配合車載隨意網路環境的動態特性，以行動節點為基礎的叢集，必須要週期性更
新網路拓樸及節點移動資訊。同時，叢集化的過程也必須避免太多叢集建立的花費。行動
節點的移動性會使得網路拓樸變動，進而導致叢集的重新建立與解散。由於車載隨意網路
變動性較大，叢集的重建與叢集首的角色改變是不可避免的。因此，叢集演算法除了叢集
的建立之外，應該設計有效管理叢集的機制。 
  本篇報告的結構如下：第二章說明本研究預探討的議題，第三章介紹車載隨意網路路
由及叢集方法，第四章針對本文所提之方法進行說明，第五章探討結果的成效與整體計畫
的進度，並對本報告作出結論。 
2 研究目的 
  在行動隨意網路中的資料封包傳送的設計，大多是採用位置基礎的轉交(Position-Based 
Forwarding)或貪婪轉交(Greedy Forwarding)的路由策略，使用位置基礎的轉交的好處可以快
的將資料封包轉送至目的地。但是此轉送策略卻容易因為城市道路的環境而遭遇到許多問
題。像是轉交至行駛方向不同的車輛，而導致封包的遺失，或是有繞徑的問題，因而降低
封包的抵達率以及增加其轉送至目的地所需的時間。另外，由於貪婪轉交的挑選法則是選
定所有鄰居中位置最靠近目的端節點，當選定下一個轉交節點後，由於不確定在轉送的過
程中鄰居是否依然在通訊範圍內，若資料尚未傳送完畢，且接收的鄰居突然加速駛離通訊
範圍，亦會導致封包的遺失，甚至要重新找尋下一個轉送的節點，重新轉送封包，而導致
網路負載上升。因此在轉交的策略上，穩定性也是重要的設計考量因素。 
  從過去行動隨意網路的研究中，可以發現根據叢集應用的不同而設計的方式也不相
同。而選擇一個合適的叢集首(Cluster Head, CH)，不但可以使得叢集首與叢集成員之間的
距離縮短，還可以使得資料傳輸路徑相對的不易斷裂、穩定通訊的品質、增加資料散播的
速度與發揮資訊共享的優勢。由於車載隨意網路的環境主要處於城市街道，所以必須將城
市中車輛移動的特性納入考量。首先是車載隨意網路中的行動節點密集程度高，相對於行
3 
 
愈高的路口的權重值愈高。但由於不考慮移動方向，可能發生封包遠離目的端的情況。
DGR[9] 分 別 以 位 置 為 主 (Position First Forwarding) ， 以 及 方 向 性 為 輔 (Direction First 
Forwarding)的選擇機制，藉以減少跳躍數。 
3.1.4 不需要地圖資訊的轉交策略 
  GPCR[10]與一般的 Position-based 路由大致上相同，但路口偵測利用計算目前附近鄰
居位置的相關係數進行判斷，但可能發生誤判的情況。CAR[11]利用評估自己與其它節點的
速度向量夾角來辦別是否位於路口。在轉交策略方面，將選擇距離錨點最近的鄰居節點作
為轉交的對象。 
3.1.5 路由修復策略 
  文獻[5]指出當節點遇到區域最大化時，常用的修復策略大致上有三種方式。首先是修
復方式，放棄預先規劃的最短路徑，使用右手法則或其他方法選擇其他中繼節點。或是重
新計算路由，當節點發現鏈結斷裂時，將由來源端重新找出另外一條到目的端的路由路徑。
最後是暫存機制，這方法又名 Carry and Forward，是將封包暫時存放在一個緩衝區，直到
在通訊範圍內出現符合轉送條件的節點，才開始做轉交的動作。 
3.2 叢集演算法 
3.2.1 基於行動隨意網路的叢集演算法 
  目前在行動隨意網路上的叢集演算法已經被提出很多，隨著車載網路的迅速發展，也
有少部分車載網路的叢集演算法。在過去的研究中，我們先把叢集演算法分成兩部分詳細
的討論：第一部分著重在叢集建立階段，第二部分著重在叢集維護階段。叢集建立階段主
要為叢集初始化的建立，而叢集維護階段在於降低動態環境下當網路拓樸改變時所帶來的
影響，包括 CH 的反覆重選與否、叢集數目上升與下降、CH 的存活時間的長短。 
3.2.1.1 叢集建立階段 
  首 先 介 紹 最 原 始 的 兩 個 叢 集 演 算 法 ： 第 一 個 是 (Lowest Identification Clustering, 
LID)[12]，其概念如同 LCA[13]，是以具有最小 ID 編號的行動節點選為 CH。LID 的優點就
是容易使用 ID 編號去選出 CH，只需要兩次比較就能得到結果。但是缺點是網路拓樸分割
後的叢集沒有規則，而且當網路拓樸改變時，會使得叢集不穩定，所以就非常容易使得叢
集個數變多。第二個是最大連結度為基礎的叢集演算法(High Connectivity Clustering, HCC) 
[12]，以具有最多連結度的行動節點選為 CH。當連結度相同時，再改由 ID 小的來決定 CH。
HCC 優點在於當 CH 負責的行動節點愈多，相對的叢集個數就會減少。而叢集個數減少，
相對的就可以使整個網路資訊儲存的維護量降低。不過，當網路拓樸有所改變時，當時的
時間與下一秒的時間所負責的叢集成員個數可能有顯著的差異，所以方法的穩定性比 LID
差。由於 LID 或 HCC 所產生的叢集數量可能會太多，因而造成網路不穩定，所以後來 K. Xu
等作者提出 RCC (Random Competition based Clustering)[14]，以競爭的概念去選定 CH，修
正前面兩個演算法穩定性的問題。 
3.2.1.2 叢集維護階段 
5 
 
 
圖 1 尋找即將接近的路口 
本文利用節點的位置座標，以及該路段的路口座標，透過投影公式判斷節點是否位於該
路段上。再考慮節點的移動方向，與路口位置向量的夾角判斷節點位於那個方向的車道上。 
 
圖 2 判斷車輛是否位於該路段 
如圖 2 所示，鄰居節點 t 在路口為 a 與 b 的路段上的投影座標為 t'，須滿足： 
 
 
若以上條件成立，則稱節點 t 落在路段 ab 上，且節點 t 位於路口 a 與路口 b 之間。 
4.1.2 結合位置預測加強資料轉送的穩定性 
  藉由地圖資訊找出的最短路徑，可以快速將封包轉交給目的端，也可以改善貪婪轉交
不適用於城市環境的問題。但仍然存在鏈結穩定性的問題。因此，本文提出下列轉交策略
提高穩定性，並且避免產生區域最大化的問題。 
4.1.2.1 位置預測（Position Prediction, PP） 
  如圖 3 所示，Cur_node 預測自己及 I，在 Ti+Δt 後的位置，並且計算與 dst 的距離。藉由
(3)判斷 I 是否位於 Cur_node 的前方，並且藉由(4)判斷 I 位於通訊範圍內，以確保鏈結的穩定
性。最後藉由(5)選擇 Δt 後距離目的端最近的鄰居節點。 
 
 
 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
7 
 
( )
⎟⎟
⎟⎟
⎠
⎞
⎜⎜
⎜⎜
⎝
⎛
==
∑∑
==
m
y
m
x
yx
m
i
i
m
i
i
cc
11
c
(t)
 ,
(t)
 (t) , (t)P  
( )( ) ( )( )( )22c (t)-(t)(t)-(t)PP D cicicii yyxxist +=−=  
Step 2：此外，我們還必須考慮行動節點本身的速度與所有鄰居節點速度的差異，藉由
(11)計算出行動節點 i 的速度。經過數值大小排序後以{ }mi21 ,V,,V,,VV ⋅⋅⋅⋅⋅⋅ 表示。接著找出
這列數值的中位數 cV 。再藉由(12)計算本身速度與 cV 的差異如下所示 
( )( ) ( )( )( )22 1)-(t-(t)1)-(t-(t) iiiii yyxxV +=  
ciic VVRel_Speed −=  
  Step 3：我們以調整權重的方法來當作叢集首選定的決策評估因子，α 為比重加權值。
正規化之後，藉由(13)計算出 RPM，所得的 RPM [ ]1,0 ∈ 。求出 iRPM 之後，記錄於 HELLO
訊息中通知所有鄰居節點，同時並收集鄰居節點的 RPM 值。如果本身的 RPM 值在所有鄰
居節點中數值最小，則宣告自己為叢集首。 
}{ ( ) { }1~mjRel_SpeedMax Rel_Speed1~mjDistMax DistRPM jc icjc ici ∈⋅−+∈⋅=  ,1 , αα  
4.2.2 叢集身份說明 
首先，我們說明在叢集演算法中會使用到的節點身份： 
z 閒置節點(Undecided Node, UN)：當行動節點在叢集建立階段的初始化時，或者行動節
點都尚未屬於任何叢集時，屬於此種身份狀態。 
z 叢集首節點(Cluster Head Node, CH)：當行動節點在叢集建立階段的叢集首選舉過程完
成後，當選 CH 的節點屬於這種身份狀態。此行動節點的工作為負責管理其叢集成員，
收集或分享資訊給其叢集成員，負責與其他 CH 通訊。 
z 叢集成員節點(Cluster Member Node, CM)：加入叢集並且不是 CH 的行動節點，屬於這
種身份狀態。此行動節點能向叢集首查詢或取得資訊。 
4.2.3 運作方式說明 
我們的叢集演算法主要的設計目標在於有效的資料分享及散佈。而以叢集的角度來
看，我們的演算法設計重點著重於：(1)使用接近中心點位置的行動節點來當作 CH，縮短
與其他行動節點的位置之優點，用以延長 CH 的存活時間。(2)避免無效叢集（指只有 CH
一個行動節點的叢集或是 CH 與一個以下叢集成員的叢集）的存在，以減少叢集的數量。
(3)減少叢集的競爭與解散，減少利用度低的行動節點。(4)避免無謂的叢集重選，以減少不
必要的花費成本。(5)CH 選定的限制，加強有效叢集的存在，以增加叢集成員的數量。 
我們的叢集演算法分成兩個部份，叢集建立階段以及叢集維護階段。我們的演算法是
以分散式的方式運作，每個行動節點都需要週期性維護一些區域性資訊。在叢集建立階段，
(9) 
(10)
(11) 
(12)
(13)
9 
 
  在路由策略方面，本文所提的路由方法其主要目的在於提升封包傳送的抵達率。由於
結合地圖街道資訊來進行轉送策略的決策，所以透過使用 MOVE[19]設計街道拓樸，並且
產生車輛移動軌跡，最後使用 Network Simulation 2(NS2)[20]作為模擬平台來驗證所提出的
路由方法。 
  本文提出利用地圖資訊計算最短路由路徑，並結合 PP 與 PP-Hybrid。這兩種方式分別
以 PP_GEO 與 PP-Hybrid_GEO 表示，並且與 GPSR 及 GSR 進行比較。從實驗數據圖 5、
圖 6 可以明顯觀察到本文所提方法，較其他方法的表現更加優異。而在修復策略方面，因
為避免繞徑問題而降低平均跳躍數。 
 
圖 5 封包接收率(通訊範圍 150m) 
 
圖 6 平均跳躍數(通訊範圍 150m) 
  在叢集演算法方面，本文所提的叢集演算法其主要目的提高叢集的存活時間。我們透
過使用 VanetMobiSim[21]搭配美國道路密集程度較高的華盛頓哥倫比亞特區的街道產生車
輛移動軌跡，最後使用 NS2 作為模擬平台來驗證所提出的叢集演算法。 
11 
 
參考文獻 
[1] C. E. Perkins, “Ad Hoc Networking,” Addison-Wesley, 2001. 
[2] C. Lochert, H. Hartenstein, J. Tian, H. Fussler, D. Hermann, and M. Mauve, “A routing 
strategy for vehicular ad hoc networks in city environments,” in Proc. IEEE Intelligent 
Vehicles Symposium 2003, pp. 156-161, Jun. 2003. 
[3] J. Tian, L. Han, K. Rothermel, and C. Cseh, “Spatially aware packet routing for mobile ad 
hoc inter-vehicle radio networks,” in Proc. Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol.2, 
pp.1546-1551, Oct. 2003. 
[4] B. C. Seet, G. Liu, B. S. Lee, C. H. Foh, K. J. Wong, and K. K. Lee, “A-STAR: A mobile ad 
hoc routing strategy for metropolis vehicular communications,”  NETWORKING, pp. 
989-999, Apr. 2004. 
[5] T. Li, S. K. Hazra, and W. Seah, “A Position-Based Routing Protocol for Metropolitan Bus 
Networks,” Vehicular Technology Conf., vol. 4, pp.2315-2319, Jun. 2005. 
[6] F. Giudici and E. Pagani, “Spatial and traffic-aware routing (star) for vehicular systems,” 
IEEE Int. Conf. on High Performance Computing and Communications, pp. 77-86, 2005. 
[7] M. Jerbi, R. Meraihi, S. M. Senouci, Y. G. Doudane , “GyTAR: improved greedy traffic 
aware routing protocol for vehicular ad hoc networks in city environments,” VANET 2006, 
pp.88-89, Sep. 2006. 
[8] B. Karp and H.T. Kung, “GPSR: Greedy perimeter stateless routing for wireless networks,” 
in Proc. ACM/IEEE Int. Conf. on Mobile Computing and Networking, 2000. 
[9] J. Gong, C. Z. Xu, J. Holle, “Predictive Directional Greedy Routing in Vehicular Ad hoc 
Networks,” Int. Conf. on Distributed Computing Systems Workshops, pp. 2, Jun. 2007. 
[10] C. Lochert, M. Mauve, H. F¨Fussler, and H. Hartenstein, “Geographic routing in city 
scenarios,” ACM SIGMOBILE Mobile Computing and Communications Review, pp. 69-72, 
Jan. 2005. 
[11] V. Naumov and T.R. Gross, “Connectivity-Aware Routing (CAR) in Vehicular Ad Hoc 
Networks,” in Proc. INFOCOM conf., pp. 1919-1927, May2007. 
[12] M. Gerla and J. T. C. Tsai, “Multiuser, mobile, multimedia radio network,” Wireless 
Network, vol. 1, pp.255–265, Oct. 1995. 
[13] A. Ephremides, J. E. Wieselthier, and D. J. Baker, “A design concept for reliable mobile 
radio networks with frequency hopping signaling,” Proceedings of IEEE, vol. 75, pp. 56–73, 
1987. 
[14] K. Xu, X. Hong, and M. Gerla, “A heterogeneous routing protocol based on a new stable 
clustering scheme,” in Proc. MILCOM, vol. 2, pp. 838-843, Oct. 2002. 
[15] C. C. Chiang et al., “Routing in clustered multihop, mobile wireless networks with fading 
channel,” in Proc. IEEE SICON, 1997. 
[16] P. Basu, N. Khan, and T. D. C. Little, “A mobility based metric for clustering in mobile ad 
hoc networks,” in Proc. IEEE ICDCSW, pp. 413–418, Apr. 2001. 
1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                              日期：   年   月   日 
一、參加會議經過 
本人於 4/19 搭乘國泰航空班機 CX421 至香港轉機，隨即改搭國泰航空 CX171 前往澳洲
伯斯，住宿於 Perth Ambassador Hotel。隔日參與為期四天的會議。由於這次會議期
間遭逢冰島事件，出席人數略受影響，但來自台灣的人數還是很多。此次論文報告安
排於 4/23 下午，報告者皆為台灣人。會議期間有幸認識來自美國的台灣學者林教授，
亦是本會議的 keynote speaker，從中瞭解 e-society 的議題。會議結束後於 4/24 搭
乘國泰航空班機 CX170 至香港轉搭國泰 CX530 班機返回，結束此次行程。 
二、與會心得 
AINA 會議在亞洲算是大型會議，收稿內容涵蓋範圍甚廣，雖然這次與會只參與其中一
個 workshop，但於會議休息時間，還是認識了許多國內的學者與學生，多數來自成大
與淡江。每每看見他校學生報告，總希望自己的學生也有能力如此，回去需要好好培
育東華自己的學生了。 
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-259-013 
計畫名稱 車載網路之網路技術與服務應用設計 
出國人員
姓名 羅壽之 
服務機構
及職稱 國立東華大學資工系 
會議時間 
 99 年 4 月 20 日
至 
 99 年 4 月 23 日 
會議地點  澳洲伯斯 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文)2010 IEEE International Conference on  
Advanced Information Networking and Applications 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Street Broadcast with Smart Relay for Emergency 
Messages in VANET 
Street Broadcast with Smart Relay for Emergency 
Messages in VANET
Ching-Yi Yang and Shou-Chih Lo 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
National Dong Hwa University 
Hualien 974, Taiwan, ROC 
sclo@mail.ndhu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—Vehicular Ad Hoc Network (VANET) is an 
emerging new technology and a promising platform for the 
Intelligent Transportation System (ITS). The most important 
application of VANET is disseminating emergency messages to 
warn drivers in case of dangerous events. The core technique 
relies on the design of a broadcast scheme. In this paper, we 
propose a street-based broadcast scheme that is suitable for 
urban environments and has an efficient performance on 
delivery ratio and rebroadcast overhead. To make our scheme 
better suited in a sparse environment with low density of 
traffic, the smart relay mechanism was proposed. We show the 
superiority of our proposed scheme over other ones in a 
simulated environment that models real streets and vehicle 
movements.  
Keywords-VANET; ITS; Emergency Broadcast; Carry and 
Forward 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSs) integrate 
advanced computer, communication, and sensing 
technologies providing efficient traffic management and real 
time traffic states for safety and comfort for drivers. With the 
advance of wireless technology, the introduction of wireless 
communication with the ITS raised the development of 
Vehicular Ad Hoc Network (VANET) [1]. 
The VANET has received considerable attention in 
recent years, and some related standards and applications are 
promoted in many countries. In 2004, the IEEE organization 
initiates a task group 802.11p to study amendment to the 
IEEE 802.11 standard adding Wireless Access in the 
Vehicular Environment (WAVE). 
The VANET is a specialized Mobile Ad Hoc Network 
(MANET) that connects vehicles and roadside facilities. The 
most important application of VANET [2] is to disseminate 
emergency messages that sends out warning signals to 
drivers in case of dangerous event such as slippery roads and 
car accident. These warning messages need to be delivered to 
those vehicles that are located within a specified warning 
area with low delay and high reliability. 
Typically, the data dissemination in wireless networks is 
achieved in a flood way using successive broadcasts. 
However, access control on the wireless medium using like 
the IEEE 802.11 MAC protocol has not efficient enough, 
since signal interference, collision, and contention create 
numerous problems on data transmission such as hidden 
terminal [3] and broadcast storm problems [4] 
In a vehicular environment, the high dynamic feature of 
vehicle movement and the signal shadow effect of building 
may result data dissemination more challenging. In this 
paper, we propose an efficient broadcast scheme for 
announcing emergency messages. The proposed scheme can 
disseminate messages along the way without any support of 
digital maps. The results of our experiment verify this 
scheme having high delivery ratio, low broadcast overhead, 
and low end-to-end delay. To make our scheme more 
efficient in a sparse environment with low density of traffic, 
the smart relay mechanism was designed. This mechanism 
enables vehicles to carry emergency messages and 
intelligently relay them to others. 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. A 
brief survey of the broadcast schemes in VANET is given in 
Section 2. Our proposed scheme is presented in Section 3. 
We evaluate the performance in Section 4. In final, it draws 
significant conclusions in Section 5. 
II. RELATED WORK 
For overcoming the broadcast storm problem, several the 
broadcast schemes to reduce redundant rebroadcast in 
MANET have been studied [4][5]. However, these schemes 
cannot be directly applied to VANET because of the 
following reasons. 
First, VANET has its own unique features despite 
common features with MANET: For example, geographical 
environment constraints, highly dynamic topology, 
predictable mobility, and sufficient energy and storage. 
Additionally, the focus on design is different in VANET than 
in MANET, particularly for an emergency message warning. 
Fast dissemination and high reliability both become the most 
important in VANET. However, low dissemination cost 
becomes important in MANET. 
We have studied the broadcast schemes of VANET 
proposed in recent years and classify them as shown in Fig. 1. 
The core technique of any broadcast method is to select next 
sender nodes (or relay nodes). A sender node indicates the 
vehicle where a broadcast packet is transmitted or 
retransmitted from. When receiving a broadcast packet, a 
receive node follows a criterion to verify whether to 
can derive the moment information like moving speed and 
moving direction of this neighbor. 
When a vehicle detects an emergency event, it would 
periodically issue an emergency message by sending out a 
broadcast packet that has the format as shown in Fig. 3 
 
Source 
ID 
Sequence 
Number 
Sender 
Position 
Warning 
Area 
Warning 
Duration 
Time 
Stamp
Event
Fig. 3.  Format of an emergency broadcast packet. 
A source node is the vehicle where an emergency 
message is first issued from. A message flooding into a 
certain area can be viewed as a series of message relays by 
successive sender nodes. The first field of a broadcast packet 
denotes the identification of the source node. The 
combination of the first and second fields uniquely identifies 
an emergency broadcast packet. The third field denotes the 
position of the sender node. The fourth and fifth fields 
respectively indicate the warning area represented by a 
rectangular area and the warning duration for the emergency 
event. Also, the time stamp field denotes the time when the 
source node launches the packet. The last field describes 
both the emergency type and the emergency degree. 
In the following, we introduce a street-based broadcast 
scheme that can overcome those intersection and shadowing 
problems. A smart relay is introduced to deal with 
connection hole problems as well. 
A. Street Broadcast 
In vehicular environments, emergency messages are 
regularly related to drivers on the street. This motivates us to 
develop a street-based broadcast scheme which broadcasts 
emergency messages along the way. Most importantly, those 
drivers having our design scheme could be more flexible 
even without any support of digital maps. 
To shorten message relay time and relay hop count, we 
follow the basic rule that a next sender node should be the 
furthest neighbor of the current sender node. This rule is 
applied on each surrounding way direction. 
When one vehicle detects an event, the vehicle becomes 
the source node to issue an emergency message. If more than 
one vehicle detects the same event, we need a contention 
mechanism to elect a final source node. The election rule can 
be based on the distance, time, or probability factors. We do 
not put much emphasis on this issue in this paper and would 
leave this research scope for future study. 
A source node periodically broadcasts an emergency 
packet. If this source node is going out of the warning area, 
this node would select a new source node from its one-hop 
neighbors that are still located within the warning area 
according to the following precedence rule: the node with the 
opposite driving direction, the node with the same driving 
direction, and the node randomly selected. This rule is for 
selecting a node that can stay in the warning area for a long 
period of time. 
When a vehicle receives an emergency broadcast packet, 
the flow of Fig. 4 is performed to decide whether to 
rebroadcast the packet or not. Any vehicles would record 
those emergency broadcast packets recently received and 
would drop any redundant packets. 
 
 
Fig. 4.  Processing flow of a receive node. 
For a newly received broadcast packet from a sender 
node, the receive node would first check whether the 
warning time has been expired or the node itself is out of the 
warning area. If it is, this packet is dropped. Otherwise, the 
receive node checks whether its one-hop neighbors that are 
on the same street as this receive node are all covered by the 
communication range of the sender node. If it is, this receive 
node needs not rebroadcast this packet since most of its 
neighbors might have received the packet with high 
probability. If it is not, the receive node further checks 
whether it is the furthest node away from the sender node on 
the current street. If it is, this receive node becomes a next 
sender node and updates the sender position field with its 
current location. Then, this receive node rebroadcasts the 
updated packet. 
Each vehicle can know the location of any of its 
neighbors from hello messages. Also, a receive node can 
know the location of the sender node from the emergency 
broadcast packet. We assume that all vehicles have the size 
of communication range (denoted as R). Hence, it is easy to 
check whether a neighbor of the receive node is also under 
the communication range of the sender node. 
The most critical issue in the above flow is how to 
evaluate which neighboring nodes are on the same street 
with a receive node without using any street maps. First we 
define the following notations: 
DirM(A): the driving direction of vehicle A. 
DirV(A, B): the direction vector from vehicle A’s position to 
vehicle B’s position. 
θ(U, V): the angle (0°~360°) between vectors U and V. 
Dist(A, B): the distance between vehicles A and B. 
We need a method to evaluate whether vehicle B is ahead 
or behind vehicle A from the view point of the A’s driving 
direction. The following function Drive_Pos introduced in 
[13] does this work. 
Drive_Pos(A, B)＝ 
M V1 (ahead),     If (Dir (A),Dir (A,B)) is 0 ~90 (  270 ~360 ) 
1 (behind), Otherwise.
orθ ° ° ° °⎧⎨−⎩
     
Here, we suppose that two vehicles A and B drive on the 
same street if they satisfy the following two constraints: 
(1) The normal distance between A and B is less than the 
width of a typical road (denoted as H). 
(2) A and B drive either in the same or opposite direction. 
Average delay time: the average time for a vehicle to receive 
an emergency broadcast packet from the source node. 
Average retransmission times: the average number of times 
that an emergency broadcast packet is retransmitted by 
intermitted nodes after issued from the source node. 
Delivery ratio: the ratio of the number of vehicles that 
correctly receive an emergency broadcast packet issued from 
the source node to the total number of vehicles. 
A. Simulation Model 
We consider a real street model that is imported from the 
TIGER (Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and 
Referencing) database [16]. The street map with the size of 
1000m×1000m is shown in Fig. 6. The vehicle mobility is 
modeled by VanetMobiSim [17] which supports multi-lane 
roads, differentiated speed constraints and traffic signs at 
intersections. In our simulation, each road has two lanes 
(forward and reverse), and the vehicle speed is limited from 
10 m/s to 20 m/s. At each simulation run, we randomly select 
a vehicle to be the only source node that sends out an 
emergency broadcast packet. The total map area is the 
warning area. Then, we measure the cost metrics at the end 
of simulation time. The related parameter settings used in the 
simulation are listed in Table 1. 
 
Fig. 6.  Simulation environment. 
Table 1. Parameter settings. 
Parameter Value 
Transmission radius 150 m 
Simulation time 100 s 
Number of nodes 50~300 
MAC and physical layer 802.11p 
Waiting time 5 ms 
Hello interval 1 s 
Persistence probability 0.8 
Vehicle speed 10 m/s - 20 m/s 
Map size 1000 m × 1000 m 
B. Simulation Results 
The result of retransmission times demonstrates in Fig. 7. 
This cost metric indicates how worse the broadcast storm 
problem is. Simple flooding has the highest retransmission 
time, since all receive nodes become next sender nodes for 
each rebroadcast. S1P and SPP have low retransmission time, 
because the receive nodes on the most outer region have the 
highest precedence to compete to be next sender nodes. SPP 
would have lower retransmission time than S1P when the 
probability value p is small. WPP has higher retransmission 
time than SPP and S1P, since all receive nodes compete at 
the same time to be next sender nodes. 
 
 
Fig. 7.  Retransmission times comparison. 
Our street-based broadcast (denoted as STB) has higher 
retransmission time than WPP, S1P, and SPP when the 
number of nodes is less than 200. The reason is that our 
approach can solve the intersection problem and hence select 
more relay nodes than other approaches in environments 
with low traffic density. Using smart relay, our proposed 
scheme (denoted as STB_SR) causes more relay nodes to 
overcome the connection hole problem. Therefore, STB_SR 
has higher retransmission time than STB. 
Next, we show the delivery ratio in Fig. 8. The delivery 
ratio increases as the number of nodes increases, since 
network topology becomes more connected and there are less 
connection holes. STB_SR has the highest delivery ratio due 
to the support of carry and forward. Without using carry and 
forward, simple flooding achieves the highest delivery ratio, 
because all receive nodes are relay nodes. STB just has the 
lower delivery ratio than simple flooding but outperforms 
WPP, SPP, and S1P. This reveals that solving the 
intersection problem is advantageous to the delivery ratio. 
 
 
Fig. 8.  Delivery ratio comparison. 
In WPP, those receive nodes that decide to be relay nodes 
no matter their distances to the sender node contend for 
channel access at the same time. Using a near relay node to 
the sender node is disadvantageous on increasing broadcast 
coverage. Small broadcast coverage causes a less number of 
nodes to be candidates for rebroadcast. In S1P and SPP, 
outer nodes have earlier time to contend for channel access 
than inner nodes. Therefore, their performances are better 
than WPP. 
Finally, we show the end-to-end delay in Fig. 9. This 
metric indicates how fast each vehicle in the warning area is 
無研發成果推廣資料 
