要為製作待測試片；自製的電解機構如圖二所示是由
1為純鎢；2為鑲埋劑；3為電解槽；4為飽和甘汞參考
電極；5為白金片；6為電化學測試系統所組成，將調
配好的氫氧化鈉（NaOH）電解液倒置電解槽中，白
金片為對應電極（Counter Electrode, CE），飽和甘汞
電極為參考電極（Reference Electrode, RE），純鎢為
工作電極（Working Electrode, WE），再配合電化學
測試系統所組成的環境就是電解機構，是進行微電解
加工與塔弗圖量測的平台。本論文實驗時工作電極、
對應電極以及參考電極位置將擺放在電解槽內同一
位置，而電解液將倒滿電解槽，主要是為了讓每次實
驗都能在相同環境下進行，以利於實驗後的分析與比
較。
3. 微放電加工面
3.1 放電能量的選用
本論文在製作待測試片方面，已經有建立一組
放電參數，利用此組放電參數進行微放電加工，加工
後表面狀態較佳、較無積碳問題、微裂痕較少以及加
工穩定，所以將以這組參數對純鎢棒材做微放電加
工，放電參數只改變放電電流大小，其他參數都固定
不變如表一所示。
3.2 不同放電能量對表面狀態的影響
將針對不同放電能量表面做分析與探討，並與基
材相互比較，主要量測放電加工面的粗糙度、厚度、
硬度以及成分分析，詳細探討這些表面特性在微電解
加工時會造成何種影響。
實驗以原子力顯微鏡量測表面粗糙度與3D形貌
如圖三所示；以掃描式電子顯微鏡觀察回凝層厚度如
圖四所示；以奈米壓痕實驗量測回凝層硬度[8]；以能
量分散式光譜儀分析表面成分。表二為比較放電加工
面表面狀態與特性。
從表二中可得知，放電能量對表面狀態與特性影
響很大，當放電能量2A時，放電加工面表面粗糙度、
厚度、硬度以及碳元素的值都為最大；反之，當放電
能量為0.5A時，放電加工面表面粗糙度、厚度、硬度
以及碳元素的值都為最小，此結論與放電加工面相關
文獻相符[9-10]，放電能量會影響放電加工面的表面
狀態與特性。
4. 電化學特性
塔弗圖為主要用來觀察侵蝕反應的曲線，從塔弗
圖上可清楚了解不同電位對被加工物的影響，並可比
較不同表面狀態的開路電位，其中以開路電位可分為
兩區域，分別為產生侵蝕反應的陽極區，與未產生侵
蝕反應的陰極區[11]。
4.1 基材塔弗圖量測
基材塔弗圖可分為A、B及C三個不同區域，而不
同區域的電位會有不一樣的電解效果，A區因電位還
未過開路電位，所以選取此區電位將不會產生侵蝕反
應，而B區與C區因電位已過開路電位，所以選取此
區電位將會產生侵蝕反應，但這兩區的加工機制各有
不同，圖五為基材塔弗圖與實際微電解加工效果。
從圖五可觀察到，設定A區域範圍內的電位不會
有侵蝕反應；設定B區域範圍內的電位，開始產生侵
蝕反應，但此區域電位為剛進入陽極區電流密度並不
大，所以加工後表面較為粗糙；設定C區域範圍內的
電位，加工後表面光滑平整，因此區域電流密度大且
穩定。
4.2 不同放電能量表面塔弗圖量測
三種放電能量表面其表面粗糙度與3D形貌都不
相同，所以從圖六中可觀察出前半部三條曲線趨勢都
不相同，是因三種放電能量所造成的表面波峰與波谷
分布不同及表面特性所影響的；而後半部三條曲線趨
勢較相近，是因隨著電位不斷的增加造成波峰與波谷
的移除，以致於後半部的掃描較不受波峰與波谷的影
響，但會受生成物的影響，所以曲線不穩定但趨勢相
近。
放電加工面塔弗圖可分為A、B、C及D四個不同
區域，而不同區域的電位會有不一樣的電解效果，A
區因電位還未過開路電位，所以選取此區電位將不會
產生侵蝕反應，而B區、C區及D區因電位已過開路電
位，所以選取此區電位將會產生侵蝕反應，圖七至圖
九分別為不同放電能量表面塔弗圖與實際微電解加
工效果。
從圖七至圖九中可觀察到，設定A區域範圍內的
電位不會有侵蝕反應；設定B區域範圍內的電位，其
進行微電解加工時將會開始有侵蝕反應，此區域電位
為剛進入陽極區電流密度並不大，所以加工後表面並
無太顯著的變化；設定C區域範圍內的電位，經微電
解加工後表面還會有原本的放電加工面且移除量
小，因此區域電位在加工時電流密度是平穩的且受放
電面阻礙的，所以選取此範圍內的電位進行微電解加
工是均勻且緩慢的；設定D區域範圍內電位，電流密
度是不穩定的，因此區域電位大而反應迅速，所以進
行微電解加工會是劇烈且不均勻的，而生成物變多表
面尺寸也難以掌控。
4.2.1 解釋不同放電能量表面塔弗圖區域
電極表面高點移除機制可解釋不同放電能量表
面塔弗圖B區的趨勢，放電加工面塔弗圖四個區域中
B區除了放電能量0.5A表面塔弗圖外，其餘兩個放電
能量表面因粗糙度較高，所以塔弗圖於B區電流密度
會迅速上升，塔弗圖B區為剛進入陽極區開始有侵蝕
反應的區域，此區域侵蝕反應因電場集中效應，所以
會先從放電加工面表面高點進行侵蝕，造成電流集中
於高點的現象。
以原子力顯微鏡觀察放電加工面電解前後表面
3D形貌與粗糙度分別為圖十與圖十一，而粗糙度如
表三所示，主要以最大高度粗糙度Rmax值來做比
較，因Rmax值最容易比較出電解前後表面高低點的
變化，從實驗中可發現電解前放電加工面表面Rmax
值比電解後放電加工面表面高，比較Rmax值可發現
電解前Rmax值約為3μm，經電解後Rmax值降為約
的原因。
3. 本論文實驗得知電解電位設定為 0.8V 時，基材
移除量大於放電加工面移除量，也就是說在此
電位下進行微電解加工放電加工面不易被侵蝕
而基材侵蝕較快，所以此電位將是較適合用來
觀察放電加工面遮蔽效應的電解電位。
4. 應用放電加工面的遮蔽效應維持幾何形狀外
形，將此受放電加工的幾何形狀外形進行微電
解加工，可達到修整表面的效果如去除毛邊、
凸出物或整平等。
6. 誌謝
本 論 文 為 國 科 會 編 號 （ 改
NSC-96-2221-E-212-021）之計畫，感謝國科會的支
援，使本計畫得以順利進行，特此致上感謝之意。
7. 參考文獻
1. T. Makuzawa and M. Fujino, “Wire electro 
discharge grinding for micro machining,” Annals of 
the CIRP, Vol. 34, pp. 431-434, 1985.
2. Y.M. Lim and S.H. Kim, “An electrochemical 
fabrication method for extremely thin cylindrical
micropin,” International Journal of Machine Tools & 
Manufacture, Vol. 41, pp. 2287-2296, 2001.
3. C.T. Yang, S.S. Ho, and B.H. Yan,“Micro hole 
machining of borosilicate glass through
electrochemical discharge machining（ECDM）,”Key 
Engineering Material, pp. 149-166, 2001.
4. H. Langen, R. Wuthrich, V. Fascio, and D.
Viquerat,“Study of spark assisted chemical
engraving-process technology data,” Proceedings of 
International Conference of the European Society
for Precision Engineering and Nanotechnology
(EUSPEN), pp. 265, 2002.
5. 顏炳華、劉弘松，「結合微放電與研磨技術之高
精度微孔加工研究」，國立中央大學，碩士論文，
民國94年。
6. T. Kurita and M. Hatori,“A study of EDM and
ECM/ECM-lapping complex machining
technology,”International Journal of Machine Tools
& Manufacture, Vol. 41, pp.1804-1810, 2006.
7. 黃豐元、顏炳華、陳新仁、蔡鎮宇，「鉬金屬放
電加工與電解拋光之研究」，國立中央大學，碩
士論文，民國96年。
8. 林仁輝、劉政良，「分子動力學運用於薄膜機械
性質之計量與實驗」，國立成功大學，碩士論文，
民國93年。
9. P. Kruth and B. Lauwers, “Study of the white layer
of a surface machined by die-sinking
electro-discharge machining,”Annals of the ClRP,
Vol. 44, pp. 169-172, 1995.
10.H.T. Lee, F.C. Hsu and T.Y. Tai, “Study of surface 
integrity using the small area EDM process with a
copper–tungsten electrode,”  Materials Science and 
Engineering, pp.346-356, 2004.
11.M. Anik,“Efect of concentration gradient on the 
anodic behavior of tungsten,”Corrosion Science, Vol. 
48, pp. 4158-4173, 2006.
表一 放電參數
材料與極性 鎢電極（＋）黃銅線（－）
加工電流（A） 0.5，1，2
放電幅（μs） 50
休止幅（μs） 100
放電間隙（段） 8
圖一 WEDG實體圖
圖二 電解環境3D示意圖
（a）放電能量0.5A （b）放電能量1A
（c）放電能量2A
圖三 放電加工面表面3D形貌
圖十二 不同電解電位加工後電流密度比較
圖十三 基材與放電加工面塔弗圖比較
圖十四 電解後量測示意圖
0
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8
量測點( mm )
放電加工面-0.6V
放電加工面-0.7V
放電加工面-0.8V
放電加工面-0.9V
基材-0.6V
基材-0.7V
基材-0.8V
基材-0.9V
移
除
量
(
m
m
)
圖十五 電解後移除量的比較
圖十六 純鎢棒材側邊凹槽實體圖
圖十七 純鎢棒材側邊凹槽加工後實體圖
圖十八 模擬加工後凹槽口的局部放大圖
Machining Barrier Investigation of
the Electrochemical Microshaping on
the Micro-EDMed Surface
Yu-Cheng Chen
1
and Jing-Dae Huang
2
1Institute of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engin-
eering, National Formosa University, Graduate Student.
2Department of Power Mechanical Engineering, National
Formosa University, Adjunct Professor
NSC Project No.: NSC-96-2221-E-212-021
Abstract
The aim in the thesis explores the electrochemical
differences on the various micro-EDMed surface, which
is called as machining barrier of the electrochemical.
Surface structure of the micro-EDMed is composed of
craters, accumulation of carbon, re-solidify, and recast
layers. The profiled and propertied of the micro-EDMed
surface includes roughness, thickness of re-solidify
layer, hardness of re-solidify layer, and composition of
re-solidify layer vary with the discharge energy during
machining. From the results, we observed that the
surface is more rough, and the re-solidify layer is
thicker, when the discharge energy is increased.
The electrochemical corrosion behavior of pure
tungsten and micro-EDMed surface in 1.25M NaOH
solution has been investigated by means of
potentialdynamic polarization method with
electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS).
Furthermore, we observed the different of open circuit
potential (OCP), etching rate, and etching effect in the
electrochemical on the various micro-EDMed surface.
According to the tafelplot, we observed that the state of
the surface is poor on the high potential, and the state of
the surface is better on the low potential in the
electrochemical. We compared the characteristic of
electrochemistry from the tafelplot, and compared the
profiled and propertied of the various micro-EDMed
surface. Final, according to the experimental parameters,
manufactures the small geometry shape.
Keywords: micro-EDMed surface, machining barrier,
geometry shape
基材
放電加
工面
X
Y
研討會名稱：中國機構與機器科學國際會議暨海峽兩岸第四屆機構學研討會
(CCMMS 2008)
主 辦 單 位：中國機構學會
時 間：97 年 7月 27~31 日
地 點：大連(原預定在秦皇島舉行)
報 告 人：國立虎尾科技大學 動力機械系 黃俊德
會場外留念相片
97 年 7 月 27~31 日參加在大連(配合北京奧運原預定在秦皇島舉行)由中國
機構學會主辦中國機構與機器科學國際會議暨海峽兩岸第四屆機構學研討會
(CCMMS 2008)，筆者懷抱見學、增廣見聞之心情，與本系多位同仁一同前往參
加研討會。本次共有 200 篇文章參與，屬中規模研討會，會議進行與一般研討
會類似，安排專題演講及年度檢討，並對來年的期許與勉勵，期望研究更精進、
明年參與人數及發表文章更廣泛，最後頒發優秀論文獎 10 位。整體會議及論文
發表順利，因為籌備細心，凡事均有充分準備，不因臨時變更開會地點而手忙
腳亂，是值得學習的地方。
1. Introduction
The wettability which a droplet is affiliated with a solid surface is often used by to control
adhesion and motion of fluids in industrial application. As a result, precise control of wettability
represents the key function in varied technology applications. With the equilibrium contact angle,
the energy of the system reaches a local minimum. The shape of the droplet can indicate how much
the water affiliates the solid surface.
The measurement of the contact angle formed hydrophobicity is the common way on placing
a small amount of liquid over a hydrophobic surface. The equilibrium contact angle depends on the
surface condition. According to the Young’s angle, which can be determined from the force balance
between the interfacial tensions at the three-phase contact line formed by solid, liquid and vapour,
the smaller the surface tension of the surface, the larger is the contact angle. The contact angle can
present the wetting characteristics of the surface, which the equilibrium contact angle is equal to
Young equation for the ideal surface (smooth, planar, rigid and homogeneous). However, the
difference of the contact angle between the advancing liquid edge and the receding liquid edge is
related to the drive force value to move a droplet. As a result, contact angle difference is a very
important parameter when droplet motion is being considered. In a dynamic case, the contact angles
change from the static values so that the advancing angle increases and the receding angle decreases
as a function of the speed of the three-phase contact line. Furmidge [] derived simply the force
needed to move a droplet on the surface by equating the energy of wetting on advancing edge and
the energy released by dewetting of the receding edge. This can be seen from equation that the drive
force is advanced as the contact angle reaches its maximum value for an advancing liquid edge and
the minimum value for a receding liquid edge.
Over a hundred years ago Lippmann [] recognized that an externally added electrostatic
charge may significantly modify the capillary forces at an interface. The notion of electrical control
of surface tension, i.e., electrocapillary or electrowetting, is quite attractive for microdevices and
simplicity in implementation. As a result, the exploration of contact angle depends on the applied
voltage for the droplet of the order of ul, or less, the gravitational effects have little effect, has been
photography apparatus having a function of the 60 pieces per second, the droplet contact angle
variation can be detected in the real time through the calculated inspector of angle from the captured
droplet photography having a magnification of the order of 40 times.
On the electrowetting experimental configuration as shown in Figure, a probe made of W is
connected with the negative, and the electrode layer is connected with the positive, named as openly
electrowetting. As exerts the voltage to the droplet, the contact angle change related with
elctrowetting phenomenon can be measured through the experimental equipment. This openly
electrowetting is recorded in term of the applied voltage when a small amount of droplet is placed
on the hydrophobic surface. This provides us a very important data to analyze the electrowetting
phenomenon correctly.
2-2. Microstructure over the Hydrophobic and Dielectric Layers
In the experimental prototype demonstrated, a Teflon film 10 um in thickness is coated on the
dielectric layer, which a standard sputtering process is used to make the hydrophobic and dielectric
layers, to act as the hydrophobic layer, the process flow of the micro instruction as illustrated in
Figure. Starting with a clean Pyrex glass substrate, a layer of e-beam-evaporated Pt is deposited and
patterned for the electrode layer. Then a layer of NbN (0.6μm-thickness) is deposited as a dielectric
layer using PECVD. And a thin hydrophobic layer (0.2μm-thickness, 0.2 % Teflon AF solution) is
spin-coated over the dielectric layer, as illustrated in Figure.
The workpiece which piles up the layer of electrode, dielectric and hydrophobic was made
through the sputtering process, as shown in Figure. The electrode over the Pyrex glass is a thin gold
layer completed from the RF sputtering process. To promote the adhesion between gold layer and
glass, the Ti is acted as the bonding agent before sputtering the gold layer.
3. Results and Discussion
This phenomenon, has an excellent reversibility with many kinds of dielectric layers
compared to the conventional electrowetting, where liquids contact the conductive surface directly.
3.1 Electrowetting Reaction
represents the electrowetting curve at the variant dielectric layer about 650 nm thick such as TiN,
NbN and Ultra 123. Every dielectric layer is responding to the threshold voltage, respectively,
which shows in Figure. It get clearly that TiN needs the threshold voltage of 40V, Ultra 123 at 50V,
and the NbN around 70V.
3.2 Electrowetting Curve
As the electrowetting effect happens once, the curve presents three segments depending on the
changed tendency with time. At the segment ab, it shows the electrowetting reaction as the applied
voltage is over a certain lever. Then, the droplet keeps steady state, which the angle is contact, at the
invariable voltage, which is shows at the segment bc. On releasing voltage, the droplet recovers
over the differentiate time between cd.
The contact angle differential variant is increased with the applied voltage increase until
almost 70 degree, which is called as the saturated angle becoming independent on the applied
voltage.
3.3 Responding Duration
The responding time attained the electrowetting effect, which the wettability is obviously
hydrophilic at the segment ab, is shortening as the voltage is over the threshold. From the results,
the responding time keeps the tendency that is more than 0.25 seconds. Another, the recovered time
removed the electrowetting effect, at the segment cd, is shorter than the reactive time, about 0.15
seconds.
4. Asymmetry Characteristic
In the biomedicine and biotechnology application, the droplet is often transported to mix with
some of liquid. At first, we make a definition to the change of water drops contact angles. The
subtraction between advancing and receding angles means a certain driven force to transport the
droplet. Thus, to make the difference between advancing and receding angles, the droplet will be
transported smoothly on the working surface. This phenomenon means a much drag force as a result
of the droplet is exerted voltage, inducing a change in wettability on the surface and contact angle
of the droplet, which we name electrowetting on dielectric (EWOD). When it has been different, the

Figure 1 schematically the detection system of the electrowetting phenomenon. This system is
included into the FTF188 power supply, the vision detection apparatus, and calculated inspector of
angle from a droplet photography.
Figure 2 the experimental configuration.
