2應用 Multihoming 多重網路介面之行動網際網路快速換手控制機制(1/1)
Fast Handoff Control Mechanisms for Mobile Internet Using the
Multiple-Interface Approach(1/1)
一、中文摘要
隨著行動設備的逐漸流行，使用者可隨時
隨地利用可攜帶型電腦設備存取網路資
源，因此如何使行動使用者快速的漫遊於
不同網路段間，減少從舊網段換手
(handoff) 到新網段的延遲時間與封包遺失
是一重要課題。為解決此問題，我們提出
利用階層二 (layer 2) 輔助來產生交替路
徑的快速換手機制(LLA-AP: a link layer
assistance fast handoff scheme using the
alternative path)。在 LLA-AP 機制中主要想
法為利用多重介面加上階層二驅動的特性
來減少換手延遲時間。行動使用者必須安
裝兩個網路卡介面，一個介面連接原網
段，另一個介面在適當時機預先完成換手
準備。因此在我們所提出的 LLA-AP 裡有
兩個主要功能： 功能 1 .監控階層二 (layer
2) 的訊號，包括原網段與新網段的訊號，
當原網段訊號低於某一臨界值時就啟動階
層二事件 (layer 2 trigger) 以便選擇最佳
換手時機。 功能 2. 利用多重介面的特
性，在階層二驅動發生時，則利用另一個
介面先連線到訊號最強的網段取得轉交位
址 (care-of-address)，預先完成新網段的註
冊程序。經由我們所提出的機制，行動使
用者可以在原網段連線時，就先準備好換
手動作，因此從原網段換手到新網段時，
就會減少換手延遲時間進而提高行動網路
效能。
關鍵詞： multiple interfaces, handoff, layer 2
trigger, care-of-address, registration
Introduction
In the next generation network,
providing mobile nodes (MNs) with roaming
continuously will become one of the major
issues when MN accesses data over the
Internet. Mobile IP [13,16] supplies a
mechanism which allows MNs to continue
their transmission when the attachment point
is changed. When MN visits foreign network,
it obtains a Care-of-Address (CoA) and starts
a registration process which reports the
newly position to its home agent (HA). When
HA receives the registration message, i.e., the
binding update message, it sends a binding
update acknowledgement to MN. From then
on, packets destined to MN will be tunneled
and forwarded to the new position. When
MN receives the first tunneled packet sent
from HA, the handoff process is finished.
However, based on the mobile IP, MN can
not receive packets on its new link until the
registration process is complete. This handoff
gap called handoff latency containing the
time of finding new prefix to establish a new
CoA and sending a binding update to HA
(registration) degrades MN's performance.
There have been several proposed
developments that try to reduce the handoff
latency. The first one is the
cooperation-based method called fast handoff,
which utilizes layer 2 (L2) information such
as signal strength to prepare for new link
handoff process. Using the cooperation-based
method, MN collects signal strength of
nearby access points (APs) and switches to
the better path when the original path is not
suitable to connect. It reduces the handoff
gap by overlapping the handoff process and
CoA establishment. The other one is the
region-based method called hierarchical
mobile IP [5,6,17], which uses a top level
agent to manage all message exchanging
between HA and MN. When MN moves
within the same administrative domain,
message exchanging can be processed as
local information. Using the region-based
method, the time of registration can be
reduced.
Although the handoff latency is reduced
by the aforementioned methods, It is still a
challenging problem to provide MN with a
smooth movement in the mobile wireless
environment. Considering the following facts:
(1) There is no exact time for MN to switch
to the new link unless the currently
4The packet forwarding phase begins
after MN sends the F-NA message to ask
NAR to forward all buffered packets.
The message flow diagram of the fast
handoff is depicted in Figure 1.
Figure 1: the diagram of fast handoff
Hierarchical mobile IP [5,6,17]
proposed an administrative region-based
scheme to reduce the registration time and
registration message. A mobility anchor point
(MAP) located at the top of the
administrative region to catch the registration
messages if MN moves within its
administrative domain. The registration to
HA is processed as a local message and the
registration time is reduced.
Hierarchical mobile IP proposed an
administrative region-based scheme to
reduce the registration time and registration
message. A mobility anchor point (MAP)
located at the top of the administrative region
to catch the registration messages if MN
moves within its administrative domain. The
registration to HA is processed as a local
message and the registration time is reduced.
In recently research, the multiple
interface method [3,9,10,11] is adopted to
provide unbroken connection during roaming.
When a MN equipped multiple interfaces, it
can benefit by switching to a better
alternative wireless path when the currently
used interface is failed. But issues about
ingress filtering and making a fast vertical
handoff, i.e., roaming from one interface to
another when failure of the current interface
occurs are under developed.
Hierarchical mobile IP proposed an
administrative region-based scheme to
reduce the registration time and registration
message. A mobility anchor point (MAP)
located at the top of the administrative region
to catch the registration messages if MN
moves within its administrative domain. The
registration to HA is processed as a local
message and the registration time is reduced.
Proposed LLA-AP Algorithm
Figure 2: the abstract handoff configuration
of the LLA-AP scheme
The handoff latency can be reduced using
two ways. The first one is with the help of
the L2 information. The second one is
preparing for new link handoff when MN is
in the old link. Using the L2 information
such as signal strength, MN can be informed
and start to search for a better link when the
signal strength of the old link becomes
unacceptable to connect. When MN detects
a new better wireless path, i.e., with a better
signal strength, it can prepare for the link
handoff process such as attaching the new
link, getting a CoA in advance, sending a
binding update. We propose the link layer
assisted fast handoff scheme using the
alternative path (LLA-AP) scheme to achieve
the above objectives. Each MN is equipped
with 2 wireless interfaces in the LLA-AP
scheme. One interface of MN connects and
monitors the old link. If the signal strength of
the old link is below pre-defined threshold,
LLA-AP uses the other interface to scan
signal strength of nearby APs. After detecting
a better wireless path, LLA-AP starts to
connect the new alternative wireless path and
to prepare for handoff process. Figure 2
6about fast handoff issues, it is still a
challenge problem to provide a seamless
handoff for a mobile node. These researches
include cooperative fast handoff based,
hierarchical region based and multiple
interfaces based schemes. In this project, we
combine the design of an link layer
information and the alternative path selection
approach to improve the vertical handoff.
This model uses two techniques to reduce the
handoff latency. The first one is to select
candidate access points. The access point
with the maximum beacon strength is
selected as the candidate one for the mobile
node. The second one is to get the new link's
CoA using link layer trigger in advance.
Based on the L2 trigger aided alternative path
technique, the handoff process can be
controlled by the mobile node. Because of
the limit of connecting to the network just
one at a time, the concept of finding a new
alternative path concept is used when mobile
node detects the unsuitable connecting link.
It can receive packets from the old
connection and in the same time it can
negotiate with the new access router to get
CoA.
This project creates several benefits which
are described as follows:
1. This project provides a L2 trigger
mechanism to find a suitable timing for
handoff. With the help of L2 information,
The MN can decide which time is good
for preparing for handoff process and
leaving the old link.
2. This project induces a multiple interfaces
control scheme which can prepare for
layer 3 handoff operations in advance.
The MN can get a new CoA and
registration to its HA when it still
connects with the old link. So the MN is
always not separated no matter when a
handoff occurs.
3. This project builds a practical network
environment to test handoff scenarios.
Linear and ping-pong movement
configurations are under test for
verifying the efficiency of this project.
4. This project has been published in the
conference proceeding. In addition, this
project is submitted to Journal and
applied for patent. Page 2 shows
contributions about this project.
References
[1] B. Aboba, Ed., ”Architectural 
Implications ofLink Indications”, 
Internet Draft
draft-iab-linkindications-04.txt , IETF,
Dec. 2005.
[2] C. Blondia, O. Casals, L. Cerda, N. van
den Wijngaert and G.
Wilems, ”Performance Evaluation of 
Layer 3 Latency Handof Mechanisms”, 
ACM Mobile Networks and Application,
VOL. 9, NO. 6, pp. 633-645, 2004.
[3] R. Hsieh, A. Seneviratne, "A
Comparison of Mechanisms for
Improving Mobile IP Handoff Latency
for End-to-End TCP", Proceedings of
the 9th Annual International Conference
on Mobile Computing and Networking,
pp. 29-41, September 2003.
[4] R. Hsieh, Z. G. Zhou and A. Seneviratne,
"S-MIP: A Seamless Handoff
Architecture for Mobile IP".
Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM, VOL
3, pp. 1774-1784, San Francisco, USA,
2003.
[5] T. Ernst, Ed., ”Goals and Benefits of 
Multihoming”, Internet Draft I-D
draft-ernst-generic-goalsand-benefits-01,
Feb. 2005.
[6] W. Fritsche, F. Heissenhuber, ”Mobile 
IPv6: Mobility Support for Next
Generation Internet”, IPv6 Forum, white 
paper, 2000.
[7] R. Hsieh, A. Seneviratne, ”A 
Comparison of Mechanisms for
Improving Mobile IP Handoff Latency
for End-to-End TCP”, Proceedings of 
the 9th Annual International Conference
8可供推廣之研發成果資料表
▓ 可申請專利 □ 可技術移轉 日期： 年 月 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：應用 Multihoming 多重網路介面之行動網際網路快速換手控制機制
計畫主持人： 黃崇明
計畫編號：NSC 94－2213－E－006－039－
學門領域：網路
技術/創作名稱 應用跨層管理與多重介面的無線行動網路快速換手機制
發明人/創作人 黃崇明、江孟書
中文：本發明為利用跨層管理與多重介面機制在無線行動網路中
改善換手(handoff)效能，其中行動使用者(mobile user)安裝兩個網路
卡介面(分別為介面 1、介面 2)，當行動使用者由原網段移動到新網
段時，利用本發明可以減少換手延遲時間與封包遺失情形。主要想
法為行動使用者利用介面 1 連結到原網段，並且利用介面 2 監控無
線網路訊號。 當原網段無線訊號低於某一臨界值(threshold)時，行
動使用者會利用介面 2 連結到新網路段，預先完成換手過程。由於
以上的動作是在介面 1 與原網段連線時就執行，因此當行動使用者
由原網段換手到新網段時，因為介面 2 已經準備好可以接收資料，
所以經由介面切換，行動使用者很快就可以接收到資料，因此可以
減少換手延遲時間，進而提高換手的效能。
技術說明
英文：The invention provides a mechanism to improve handoff
performance on the wireless mobile network using cross layer
management and multiple interfaces. In our proposed mechanism, a
mobile user equips two network interface cards, which are interface 1
and interface 2 respectively, to reduce handoff latency and packet loss
when it roams between old and new networks. The mobile user
receives packets from the old network using interface 1 and detects
other available signals using interface 2. When the signal strength of
the original network is below a pre-defined threshold, the mobile user
connects to the new network using interface 2 in advance. During the
handoff procedure, the mobile user still connects to the original
network using interface 1; Furthermore, the mobile user can quickly
receive packets using interface 2 when it roams to the new network. As
a result, the handoff latency can be reduced and thus the performance is
increased.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
本發明可應用於無線網路漫遊中，對於從事無線網路設備或提供無
線網路解決方案公司皆可利用本發明提供更快速的換手方式，另外
本發明不需修改行動網路架構。對於使用本發明的方式為欲漫遊的
行動使用者必須安裝兩張網路卡介面再加上本發明所提供的換手
機制即可使用快速漫遊於無線網路中。
