The recycling system of the market could be observed that the ﬁnancial
sources are mostly the recycle clean disposal fees paid by the manufacturers
to the government. In respect of the material ﬂow, the recycling system could
be divided into institutional recycling industry and non-institutional recycling
industry [3] [9]. The former refers to that with governmental channels while
the later without governmental channels [10]. In the institutional recycling in-
dustry, the wasted household electrical appliances sent by the consumers to the
recycling centers are transported to the storage areas and disposed at the dis-
posal factories, producing recycled materials, which are sold at markets, and
derived wastes, which are incinerated or buried. In the non-institutional recy-
cling industry, the wasted household electrical appliances sent by consumers to
privately owned collection centers are dissembled into parts with economic val-
ues, which go into markets accordingly, and derived wastes, which are discarded
directly [11] [4].
2 Modeling
This paper intends to discuss the impacts of various subsidy policies of waste
electrical and electronic items on the recycling market from the viewpoint of
the system dynamics (SD). It is vertically to add the two diﬀerent policy vari-
ables, namely the ﬁxed subsidy rate (static pricing) and dynamic subsidy rate
(dynamic pricing), to the scenario simulation, analyze and make comparison
between the results. [15] [8] [5]
2.1 Feedback Loop
The research model has ﬁve feedback loops, which are described respectively
as follows: Figure 1(a) is a simple feedback loop covering two factors: resource
recycling management fund (hereinafter refers to as the fund) and recycle clean
disposal fees. As the fund managed by the Environmental Protection Adminis-
tration of the Executive Yuan ﬁnds its sources from the recycling disposal fees
paid by the manufacturers. As the said fees increased, the fund would be in-
creased to a point where surplus is produced, making the manufacturers demand
the decrease of the fees. Therefore, the two factors are interactive and inevitably
reach a balance. Figure 1 (b) is the negative feedback loop. With the increasing
incentive, the consumers are increasingly willing to recycle their wastes, pushing
the recycle eﬃciency (also known as the check and veriﬁed amount) as well as
the recycle eﬃciency to higher points, which in turn increase the government’s
recycling disposal subsidy paid from the fund. The reducing fund would make
the incentive to the consumer plummet, and reduce the recycle disposal quantity
accordingly.
As one of the costs of disposal factories, the increasing pollution cost in Fig-
ure 3(a) reduces the disposal proﬁt, making the disposal factories incapable of
introducing advanced technology and purchasing equipment. As the backward
disposal technique bringing down the disposal extent, the produced materials
2
are positively correlated. The audit amount is subject to the recycle eﬃciency:
higher recycle eﬃciency means a better chance to be audited, which means they
are positively correlated [3] [14] [6] [9] .
Figure 1: The structure of un-audit disposal.
Its equation set is as follows:
au(t) =
∫ t
0
(d(s) − a(s)) ds (1)
d(t) = dl × au(t)× de(S) (2)
(3)
2.4 Fund
(Figure 2) shows the structure of the fund, of which the main income comes
from the recycle clean disposal cost and the main expense is total recycle sub-
sidy. As the manufacturers are held responsible for the recycle and disposal of
4
Figure 3: The structure of factory margin.
2.6 Recycle subsidy
The market recycle price (Figure 4) directly aﬀects the determination of the
recycle subsidy: as the market recycle price exceeds the disposal subsidy, the
factories would transfer the disposal to the private owned factories for the sake of
factory margin. Therefore, when the market recycle price exceeds the disposal
subsidy, the government would increase the disposal subsidy to enhance the
disposal of the factories and vise versa.
Its equation set is as follows:
S(t) =
∫ t
0
θ(s)ds (10)
θ(t) =
{
(P − S(t))/Sup, for P > S(t)
(P − S(t))/Sdown, otherwise . (11)
(12)
6
Figure 5: The structure of waste.
3 Model verification
As the system dynamics focus on the long-term changing trend, the purpose
of the model is to observe the behavior of the market as a whole, and, instead
of making the expected result equal the actual values, expect the simulated
changing trend in line with the trend of the scenario. The system domain of the
model covers the dynamic relations between the government, the recycle agents,
the disposal factories, and the fund management committee. It is to observe
the any system behavior caused by the mutual eﬀects of such factors. In respect
of the model conﬁguration, the model behavior is not subject to the change of
parameters despite certain parameters are deﬁned by this study. As for the lack
of statistics and the unknown part of the behavior model, this study intends to
adjust the model with hypothesis, and observe whether the changing trend of
the simulated result is in line with that of the actual situation.
The seventeen veriﬁcation methods proposed by Forrester and Senge (1980)
(see Table 2) are used to verify the reliability of the system dynamic model.
As for the lack of statistics, the literature and the normal market behavior
8
Table 2: The veriﬁcation methods of system dynamic models.
Veriﬁcation method description
Model structure
Structure Veriﬁcation Understanding sampling behavior and the participant modeling and veriﬁcation
Parameter Veriﬁcation The start of modeling and veriﬁcation.
Extreme Conditions Substitute various extreme values to identify any abnormal reactions.
Dimensional Consistency Substitute the dimensional unit of each variable in the calculation to check for th
Boundary Adequacy Add variables or change the conﬂuence of the model to see whether it aﬀect the
Model behavior
Behavior Reproduction Compare with past data to see whether the model is reproduced.
Behavior Prediction Predict any behavior that may have major changes under certain conditions.
Behavior Anomaly Conduct during the modeling to check whether there is any anomaly.
Family Member Compare with similar cases to check whether the results are similar.
Surprise Behavior Explore the cause of any abnormal behavior.
Extreme Policy Substitute the policy variables of extreme values to see whether there is any ano
Behavior Sensitivity Change the parameters to see whether the behavior model is changed accordingl
Boundary Adequacy Add structure to see whether the system behavior is changed.
Policy
System Improvement Observe the future change of the system as the model becomes operational.
Behavior Prediction Change the policy to see whether the system behavior changes as expected.
Policy Sensitivity Change the values of parameters to see whether the behavior model changes acco
Boundary Adequacy Add the structure to see whether the performance of policy is aﬀected.
normal disposal fraction (0.2, 0.65), normal production (500, 900), market re-
cycle price (250,700), normal recycle clean disposal fees (100,190), factory cost
fraction (1.5,3). As an important factor of the model, this study conducts sen-
sitivity test on this factor and the result is as Figure 16:
Figure 16 shows the conﬁdence bounds of the recycle subsidy. It means that,
for all dots, the percentage of falling in the yellow area is 50%, which in the
green area is 75%, that in the blue area is 95% and that in the grey area is
100%. It could be observed that most of the dots would fall in the yellow area
and the mean value of the recycle subsidy (the red line) could be acquired by
the sensitivity test.
3.3 Parameter Verification
In this model, the phenomenon of the real world is mathematically represented
by parameters, which could be veriﬁed according to the real situation and their
values should be consistent. The parameter setup of the model should be in
line with the data or understanding of the real world, i.e., the value of each
parameter should be subjectively deduced. The model in this study could be
divided into ﬁve sub-systems, namely: the un-audit subsystem, the recycle sub-
sidy fees subsystem, the fund subsystem, the factory margin subsystem and
the un-disposal subsystem. The initial values and the parameters’ values in
10
Figure 8: The trend of simulated audit disposal.
Figure 9: Sensitivity test on the recycle subsidy.
4 Establishment of policy variables
See Table 1 for the setup of variables, which are divided into controllable vari-
ables, exogenous variables and observed variables in this study. The disposal
subsidy is a controllable variable as this study aims at discussing the impact of
subsidy mechanism on the recycle market. In order to identify the diﬀerence,
advantages and disadvantages of various pricing policies, the ﬁxed rate and dy-
namic rate are taken as policy variables. The ﬁxed rate (static pricing) and
dynamic rate (dynamic pricing) in this study are deﬁned as:
(1) Fixed rate:
a. Determine price on the basis of the quantity. The government grants recycle
12
Figure 11: Fixed Rate.
Table 3: The decision variables of system dynamic models.
Attribute Name
controllable variables Recycle subsidy
uncontrollable variables or exogenous variables (1) market recycle price (2) waste weight (3) normal incent
observed variables or output variables (1) audit (2) disposal performance
The study on the factors relevant to the disposal subsidy is quite compli-
cated. This study is simpliﬁed on the basis of expert’s suggestion and literature
discussion, and set the recycle rate and market recycle price as the controllable
variables, the disposal quantity as the uncontrollable variable, and disposal per-
formance, processed material price, resources regenerate rate are major factors
observed as various policy variables are implemented. By substituting vari-
ous policy variables (the ﬁxed rate and dynamic rate), this study observes the
change of uncontrollable variables and make comparison between the ﬁxed rate
and dynamic rate.
5 Scenario simulation and policy analysis
With ﬁxed rate and dynamic rate being the critical factors aﬀecting the whole
recycle market, the study conducted various scenario simulations to see the
impacts of various rate policies on the market. The observed variables (audit
and disposal performance) is used to discuss the impacts of various policies on
various sides (recycle agents, disposal factories and the government), and the
advantages and disadvantages of various rate policy.
5.1 Scenario simulation and hypothesis
Two scenarios running respectively the two subsidy rate policies are observed
in this study to discuss the impacts and changes of the recycle market. The
scenarios are as follows (Table 4):
14
Table 4: Scenario description.
Scenarios Description
Scenario 1 The dissembled wastes have high economic values (e.g., the air conditioner), i.e., the market rec
Scenario 2 In order to increase the recycle rate, the government increases the disposal subsidy (i.e., making
Table 5: Policy description.
policy Description
Fixed rate (static pricing)
Current policy Quantity-dependent Pricing and ﬁxed disposal subsidy
Policy 1 Fixed NT$150 million for audit below 500,000 disposed units, audit-dependent subsidy for
Dynamic rate (dynamic pricing)
Policy 2 The disposal subsidy rises with the growing audit.
Policy 3 The disposal subsidy is subject to the market recycle price: high market recycle price mean
Mixed Policy-1 Policy 1 + Policy 2
Mixed Policy-2 Policy 1 + Policy 3
(Scenario 2): In order to increase the recycle rate, the government increases
the disposal subsidy (i.e., making the subsidy exceeds the market recycle price)
In this scenario both the audit and recycle rate increased. The rise of disposal
subsidy makes fund reduce to an extent that the recycle clean disposal fee
must be increased to support the fund. The rise of the recycle clean disposal
fee increases the product prices and reduces the production, hence, reduces
the waste, recyclable amount and audit. As the disposal rises, the factories
gain high proﬁts, making them willing to improve their disposal technique and
the disposal extent accordingly. Better processed material quality could not
only diminish the pollution cost, but also increase the proﬁts and the disposal
performance as well.
5.2 Policy analysis
The impacts of various rate policies on the recycle market, i.e., the audit and
disposal performance are what to be observed. A comparison is made between
Scenario 1 and Scenario 2 and the changes of respective curves are analyzed.
See Table 5 for the descriptions of the policies in this study.
(1) Policy 1:
Fixed NT$150 million for audit below 500,000 disposed units, and audit-dependent
subsidy for the part exceeding 500,000 disposed units In Scenario 1, as the mar-
ket price exceeds the disposal subsidy, the disposal might be done in illegal
disposal factories for high proﬁts. Furthermore, the slack subsidy would reduce
the proﬁts of the disposal factories. As the disposal subsidy is less than the
market recycle price, the Policy 1 could provide the disposal factories the dis-
posal subsidy to maintain their operation and increase the audit. In Scenario 2,
as the subsidy exceeds the market recycle price, Policy 1 has limited inﬂuence
16
Figure 14: Policy analysis 2.
Policy 2 could dramatically raise the disposal performance in Scenario 1 while
it has limited eﬀects in Scenario 2 (Figure 23).
(3) Policy 3:
The disposal subsidy is subject to the market recycle price: high market recycle
price means high disposal subsidy, and vise versa. As the market recycle price
exceeds the disposal subsidy in Scenario 1, the implementation of Policy 3 could
increase the subsidy in accordance with the market recycle price. The audit sees
no eﬀects in the short term, but witnesses dramatic increase in the long run.
As the disposal subsidy exceeds the market recycle price in Scenario 2, the
implementation of Policy 3 reduces the subsidy in accordance with the market
recycle price, decreasing the audit accordingly (Figure 24).
It could be observed that the implementation of Policy 3 in Scenario 1 could
dramatically improve the disposal performance while in Scenario 2 the disposal
performance raises initially, reduces afterwards, exerting no eﬀect in the long
run. This is because that the subsidy exceeds the market price in Scenario 2.
The implementation of Policy reduces the subsidy, factory proﬁts, and disposal
performance.
(4) Mixed policy: Policy 1 + Policy 2
The audit increases. The implementation of mixed Policy 1 and Policy
2 could not only improve the will of the factories by providing them with a
ﬁxed subsidy, but also make the recycle agents more willing to transfer the
recycled waste to the factories by keep the subsidy in pace with the audit. The
implementation of Mixed Policy -1 dramatically raises the audit in Scenario 1
and witness limited rise of audit in Scenario 2 (Figure 26).
The implementation of Mixed Policy -1 could raise the disposal performance
both in Scenario 1 and Scenario 2. The factory proﬁts are dramatically improved
in Scenario 1 and increase the disposal performance greatly. In Scenario 2, a
ﬁxed subsidy together with the rise of subsidy raises the factory proﬁts to some
extent and improve the disposal performance accordingly (Figure 27).
(5) Mixed policy: Policy 1 + Policy 3
18
Figure 16: Policy analysis 4.
5.3 Brief summary
It could be observed in the above policy analyses that adding varied policy
variables to diﬀerent scenarios could have diﬀerent eﬀects on the recycle market.
as the audit and the disposal performance are the observed variables in this
study, the above policy analyses is summed up and comparison is made between
Scenario 1 and Scenario 2.
(1) Scenario 1:
It could be observed that the implementation of Policy 1 and Policy 2 in Scenario
1 both raise the audit and the disposal performance as well. The implemen-
tation of Policy 3 has no eﬀect in the short term, but increases the audit and
the disposal performance dramatically in the long run. The implementation of
Mixed Policy-1 raises the audit to some limited extent and improves the disposal
performance. The implementation of Mixed Policy-2 makes the audit and the
disposal performance rise in the short term, but makes no diﬀerence in the long
run.
(2) Scenario 2:
The implementation of Policy 1 improves the audit to a negligible extent while
the disposal performance is improved to a limited extent. The implementation
of Policy 2 improves the audit to a limited extent and has little eﬀect on the
disposal performance. The implementation of Policy 3 decreases the audit, make
the disposal performance rise ﬁrst and fall later in the short term, but have no
eﬀect in the long run. The implementation of Mixed Policy-1 raises the audit to
a limited extent and t improve the disposal performance. The implementation
of Mixed Policy-2 has no eﬀect on the audit in the short term, but increases
it in the long run. The disposal performance is improved dramatically as time
goes by.
20
Figure 18: Policy analysis 6.
6.2 The advantages and disadvantages of static pricing
and dynamic pricing
In this study, simulations are made by implementing varied rate policies (static
pricing and dynamic pricing) to diﬀerent scenarios and their respective advan-
tages and disadvantages are as follows: (1) Static pricing:
Policy 1 in this study belongs to the static pricing. Such pricing could maintain
the stability of the recycle market, improving the audit and disposal perfor-
mance. However, such improvement is quite limited.
(2) Dynamics pricing:
Policy 2, Policy 3, Mixed Policy-1, and Mixed Policy-2 all belong to dynamic
pricing. Such pricing policies would make the recycle market subject to dramatic
change. For example, the audit could rise as well as fall. The improper selection
of a policy may lead to the fall of audit and grave environmental pollution.
However, compared with static pricing, a proper dynamic pricing policy has
dramatic eﬀects on the audit and the disposal performance
6.3 Standpoint analysis
Diﬀerent players in the recycle market, namely the recycle agents, the disposal
factories and the government, have varied desired aims, which are respectively
described as follows:
Recycle agents:
They are responsible for the collection, storage, and assortment of wastes. Af-
ter transferring the waste to the disposal factories, the factories pays a recycle
subsidy to the recycle agents. The sources of the waste include various recycle
points, communities and schools. The proﬁt maximization is what the recycle
agents are after. In Scenario 1, the recycle agents transfers the wastes to pri-
vately owned disposal factories or dissemble them by themselves and sell the
parts with high economic values at high prices. In Scenario 2, such wastes are
22
Figure 20: Policy analysis 8.
as subsidy granted to the disposal factories, recycle and regeneration incentives,
cleaning fees, audit fees, etc.. The government aims at raising the audit and
the disposal performance to minimize the environmental pollution. It could
be observed in the policy analysis that, the implementation of any policies in
Scenario 1 could improve the audit. However, as Policy 3 could dramatically
improve the disposal performance in the long run, it is a better choice for the
government. In Scenario 2, as Mixed Policy-2 could dramatically improve the
disposal performance in the long run, it is a better choice for the government.
6.4 Limitation
The data used in this study are taken from relevant literature and interviews of
experts, leaving much room for further study. The limitation of this study is as
follows:
Fail to cover all relevant factors:
Due to the complicacy of the factors aﬀecting the recycle market, a dynamic
model is established in accordance with the system dynamics to take into con-
sideration all necessary factors. However, as this study is focused on the impact
of subsidy rate mechanism on the recycle market, only the impacts of sub-
sidy policies on the audit and the disposal performance are analyzed while the
secondary pollution generated in the production of processed materials by the
disposal factories are not covered.
Lack of concrete data:
Due to the conﬁdential nature, the information and data relevant to the busi-
ness operation, such as cost beneﬁts, total amount of incentive and the recycle
amount by recycle agents, are not available. These information and data are
deduced in reference to relevant theories, general principles and other relevant
data.
24
Figure 22: Policy analysis 10.
requires long-term and complete data to avoid excessive subjective hypothesis.
For example, due to the lack of the market recycle price and incentives, this
study has to make deduction and optimize the data via system dynamic software
Vensim.
(3) The purpose of the subsidy policy is to promote the recycle of electric
and electronic wastes to reduce the environmental pollution. However, such
purpose may not be achieved as the market players neglect the possible envi-
ronmental pollution in their pursuit of proﬁt maximization. For instance, the
recycle agents might turn a blind eye on the quality of recycled wastes; the
disposal factory might make a false report on the audit and become indiﬀerent
to the secondary pollution. Though this study takes into consideration the dis-
posal performance, it fails to dwell on such environmental beneﬁts as pollution
cost (expense to reduce the cost as the prevention and treatment of secondary
pollution is too high), and the cost of pollution prevention and treatment (cost
to purchase pollution-treatment equipment and collect waste). There is much
room for future study on the environmental beneﬁts and the relationship be-
tween environmental pollution and the recycle market.
References
[1] Belcher, K., Boehm, M., and Fulton, M. Agroecosystem sustainabil-
ity: a system simulation model approach. Agricultural systems 79 (2004),
225–241.
[2] Bhuie, A., Ogunseitan, O., Saphores, J., and Shapiro, A. Environ-
mental and economic trade-oﬀs in consumer electronic products recycling:
a case study of cell phones and computers. Electronics and the Environ-
ment, 2004. Conference Record. 2004 IEEE International Symposium on
(2004), 74–79.
26
