 1
1985). Considerable efforts have been devoted to 
understand and to control the interaction of the 
organized structure and the characteristics of mixing, 
entrainment, and noise production (e.g., Laufer & 
Ta-Chun 1983, Fiedler & Mensing 1985, Schadow & 
Gutmark 1992). Although it has been proven that 
manipulating the coherent structures by some means, 
e.g., acoustic excitation, pulsating, geometric 
modification of the nozzle at the jet exit, etc., can 
enhance the turbulence fluctuation, entrainment, and 
mixing rate of a jet, the practical application cases 
were still limited because a homogeneous jet is a 
purely convectively unstable flow (Huerre & 
Monkewitz 1985). In this case the effects induced by 
these jet-control methods seem not to be dramatically 
significant (Gad-el-Hak 1998). 
In many applications, e.g., the mixing, heat 
transfer, combustion, etc., the jet flow plays an 
important role. The natural jet usually requires 
modifications to enhance its transport properties in 
momentum, heat, and mass transfers (Camci & Herr 
2002). If a natural jet can be guided to pass through a 
specially designed device which can induce transverse 
jet oscillation, i.e., transform the inherent jet 
instability characteristics from convectively unstable 
to absolutely unstable condition (Huerre & 
Monkewitz 1985, Gad-el-Hak 1998), it would be 
possible to modify the flow characteristics, e.g., the 
transient large-scale flow structures, the turbulence 
properties, etc., for applications.  
The fluidic flowmeter (Hyman 1961, Warren 
1964), which was invented in 1960’s, has been widely 
studied by the investigators (e.g., Tippetts et al. 1973, 
Yamasaki & Honda 1981, Wang et al. 1998) because 
of its superior characteristics in flow measurement 
over the vortex shedding flowmeter. The fluidic 
flowmeter uses the feedback pressure as the driving 
force to induce self-sustained oscillation of the jet 
(Yamamoto et al. 1999). It usually consists of two 
by-pass passages which are connected from the 
downstream wall to the upstream wall of a 
two-dimensional chamber where a plane jet is injected 
through. These by-pass passages are corresponding to 
the transmission of the pressure wave of the deflected 
jet to the upstream area of the jet and push the jet to 
deflect to the other side. The jet then proceeds with a 
self-sustained oscillation. The flow rate can be 
measured by detecting the frequency of the jet 
oscillation with the pressure transducers or 
velocimeters installed at proper locations if the 
relationship between the oscillation frequency of the 
jet and the flow rate is pre-determined. Analytical 
analysis of Lalanne et al. (2001) revealed that a 
periodic nonsymmetric state would be attained when 
the Reynolds number exceeds a critical value of 51 
and the physical mechanism of inducing the flow 
oscillation is the Hopf bifurcation. This state of 
equilibrium defines a limit cycle which is 
characterized with an oscillation frequency and 
saturated amplitude. The jet flow going through the 
meter usually becomes axially pulsatile at the outlet. 
In order to transform the inherent jet instability 
characteristics from convectively unstable to 
absolutely unstable condition to drastically modify the 
jet properties, concept of fluidic flowmeter (which 
induces transverse jet oscillation) is adopted. An 
innovative planar jet oscillator is developed in this 
work by using the characteristics of jet-impingement 
instability. The pulsatile flow commonly obtained at 
the exit of the traditional fluidic flowmeter is 
converted to large transverse oscillation motion by a 
special geometric design. This paper presents two 
primary subjects: (1) development of a device which 
can induce large self-sustained transverse oscillation 
of a planar jet at the exit of the device; (2) exploration 
of the evolution process of the large-scale flow 
structure and the turbulence properties of the 
oscillating jet generated by the developed jet oscillator. 
The oscillating jet is expected to combine with the 
wake flow in the future to develop further complicated 
flow control method for practical application. 
 
2. Development of jet oscillator and experimental 
methods 
   
2.1 Development of jet oscillator 
A specially designed fluidic oscillator which can 
induce transverse jet oscillation is developed and 
shown in Fig. 1. The flow is supplied through a 
narrow channel with a width d and injected into a 
cavity which is enclosed by two plates configured in 
the shape of inverse-Y and a target blockage. The 
aspect ratio of the channel cross section is 20 so that 
the jet can be treated as almost planar. The target 
blockage has a specially designed crescent surface 
facing the upstream slit of the jet exit. The inverse 
Y-shaped plates are made of Plexiglas with high 
transparency so that the laser light can penetrate 
through when conducting the experiments of flow 
visualization and PIV measurement. The thickness of 
the flat plates is 3 mm. The inverse Y arrangement has 
an angle of 90o, a cross-stream span length L = 400 
mm in y direction, and a downstream width W = 40 
mm. The blockage is a triangular aluminum block 
with the vertex part removed so that the upper surface 
becomes concave. The characteristic geometric 
parameters for design of the blockage, i.e., h, bgap, R, 
and Wblock, are shown in Fig. 1. The crescent profile is 
a concave arc with a radius R originated from the 
point located on the symmetry axis at a distance h 
from the virtual vertex of the triangular target 
blockage. The symbol R denotes the radius of the 
crescent profile of the target blockage. The values of h 
and R are varied from zero to 8 mm during the 
development process. The coordinates, x, y, and z, 
denote the directions in the jet injection, span, and 
cross-stream, respectively. The lateral surfaces of the 
target blockage have a small gap, bgap = 1 mm, from 
the inner surfaces of the inverse Y-shaped plates. The 
channel of width d allows the plane jet to impinge the 
crescent surface of the target block. Experiments are 
conducted to optimize the geometric parameters so 
 3
microns. The maximum framing rate is 5145 fps at the 
highest image resolution of 512 × 512 pixels. The 
camera can be operated with either internal or external 
trigger mode. For each trigger mode, the single or 
double exposure can be selected via the control 
signals submitted from the electronic synchronizer. 
The shortest frame interval is 100 ns in double 
exposure mode. The external trigger mode with single 
exposure is selected in this study. The pixel array is 
zoomed and mapped to a physical region of 
approximately 40 ~ 80 mm in this study so that the 
spatial resolution is about 79 ~ 156 µm/pixel. There 
are 4 MB internal memories installed in the camera so 
that 16000 images in around 4 seconds of recording at 
5000 fps are made possible. 
The activation sequence of the camera and the 
infrared pulsing laser is controlled by an electronic 
synchronizer which has 2 external inputs for 
adaptation of the conditional sampling signals and 8 
output ports for managing and distributing the entire 
trigger timing signals to the illumination laser and 
cameras. The seeding particles used in the PIV 
measurements are the same as those used for the flow 
visualization. 
Two consecutive image frames are analyzed by 
using the cross-correlation technique (Keane & 
Adrian 1992) imbedded in the PIV analysis software. 
The software calculates the average displacement of 
local groups of particles in consecutive images. The 
minimum particle displacement that can be analyzed 
by the software is 0.05 pixels. Corresponding to the 
physical space, therefore, the resolution for 
displacement in this study is about 4 ~ 8 µm. The 
interrogation window is set to 8 × 8 or 16 × 16 pixels. 
The cross correlation analysis starts from a search 
center of the first image frame, applies the Fast 
Fourier Transform (FFT) technique for the gray level 
(or brightness) to a predetermined search area in the 
second image frame which is located around the 
selected search center in the first image frame, 
performs the complex-conjugate multiplication, and 
conducts inverse FFT to obtain the distributions of the 
correlation coefficient in the predetermined search 
area. The distance between the positions of the peak 
value of the correlation coefficient and the search 
center is recognized as the average displacement of 
the particles in the peaked interrogation window by 
assuming that the particles in the interrogation 
window are moving homogenously. The direction of 
displacement is thus naturally determined. The 
minimum and maximum particle displacements 
detected thru the image acquisition in this study are 1 
and 6 pixels, respectively, which properly fit the 
predetermined analysis window. The number of 
vectors (the grids) predetermined for the PIV analysis 
results is 6084. Error check and interpolation are used 
to identify outliers and then regenerate interpolated 
values to replace the identified outliers.  
By setting the error threshold, the error check 
discriminates the outliers from valid vector values by 
comparing how close each vector component is to the 
mean of the vector-values across the whole 
vector-map and also performs a similar comparison 
procedure by using the nearest neighbors, rather than 
all the values in the vector-map to gain information of 
the spread of values. In general, less than 3% of 
spurious vectors per instantaneous field are obtained 
in this study. The interpolation kernel, which uses the 
nearest 8 or 24 neighbor values for processing, is 
optimized for vector-maps with a 50% overlap of the 
interrogation and the interpolation algorithm. The 
method of interpolation is based on a weighted mean 
technique which replaces the values at filtered sites in 
an iterative manner by replacing those with the most 
surrounding valid values first, then working toward 
those which are less favorably positioned for accurate 
and reliable interpolation. 
 
3. Results and discussion 
3.1 Periodic jet swing in cavity 
The optimized bgap is between 1 mm and 2 mm. 
If the gap is smaller than 1 mm, the flow resistance is 
too large to make the jet oscillation possible. If the 
gap is larger than 2 mm, the jet would not oscillate. 
By selecting bgap = 1 mm and properly adjusting the 
geometric parameters h, and R and the Reynolds 
number Red, the jet injected into the cavity can 
oscillate. Figure 3 shows the process of the oscillating 
motion of the flow in the cavity. In Fig. 3(a), the jet 
impinges on almost midway of the crescent surface of 
the target blockage. As time evolves, the jet swings 
rightwards and induces a pair of counter-rotating 
vortices, as shown in Fig. 3(b). The left vortex rotates 
clockwise and the right one rotates counter-clockwise. 
In Fig. 3(c) the rightward-swinging jet attaches to the 
right wing of the inverse Y and issues out of the 
oscillator through the right passage. On the instant the 
left clockwise-rotating vortex grows and occupies the 
whole space of the cavity. In Fig. 3(d) the jet swings 
back nearly to the central position again. The jet 
subsequently swings leftward, induces 
counter-rotating vortices, attaches to the left wing of 
the inverse Y, and issues out of the oscillator through 
the left passage, as shown in Figs. 3(e) and 3(f). The 
jet persistently swings back and forth periodically in 
the cavity. At the exits of the side passages, the jets 
are issued alternatively into the downstream region 
with inverse phase angles. A map for the operation 
range of the jet swing is obtained, as shown in Fig. 4. 
The jet can swing periodically only in the right side of 
the tongue-shaped curves. The higher the Reynolds 
number is, the larger the operation range becomes. In 
order to obtain established, self-sustained fluidic 
oscillation, the values of h/d, R/d, and Red have to fall 
within the regime which is confined by the boundaries 
described by the following fitted equations:  
7 2 3
upper
boundary
10 3 6 2 3
( )  ( 7.58 10 Re 3.78 10 Re 3.05)
       exp[( 5.04 10 Re 2.98 10 Re 5.98 10 Re 4.10)( )]
d d
d d d
h
d
R
d
− −
− − −
= − × + × − ×
− × + × − × +
               
 5
points, and alleyways. This technique can assist to 
reveal the features in the flow field of either the steady 
flow structures or the evolution process of unsteady 
vortical motions. Hunt et al. (1978) obtained a general 
formula for the relationship between the numbers of 
nodes (including four-way nodes N and three-way 
nodes N’) and saddles (including four-way saddles S 
and three-way saddles S’) for the flows around surface 
obstacles: (∑N+
2
1 ∑N’)-(∑S+
2
1 ∑S’)=1-n, in which n 
is the connectivity of the section of the flow under 
consideration. In the present case, n = 2 if only the 
flow surrounding the target blockage is under 
consideration. This formula can be used to examine 
the correctness of the topological model.  
Figure 9(a) shows the topological model on the 
instant that the jet which is swinging leftward comes 
down from the narrow channel and impinges on the 
crescent surface a little left off the central axis. 
Several critical points are identified on the proposed 
topological model: two nodes denoted by N1 and N2, 
one four-way saddle denoted by S1, as well as four 
three-way saddles denoted by S1’ - S4’. The jet 
impinges on the crescent surface at the three-way 
stagnation point S1’, then bifurcates to the left and 
right along the contour of the target blockage. Two 
three-way saddles, S2’ and S3’, are denoted at the lower 
tips of the target blockage since the separatrices 
bifurcating from S1’ meet the separatrices from the 
three-way saddle S4’ along the bottom surface of the 
target blockage and leave the tips. The separatrices 
leave the three-way saddles S2’ and S3’ and are 
wrapped around to form the counter-rotating standing 
vortices around the nodes N1 and N2. The separatrices 
along the passages merge at the stagnation point, i.e. 
the four-way saddle S1, and bifurcate subsequently up 
and down. The upper bifurcated separatrix goes to the 
three-way saddle S4’ and the lower bifurcated 
separatrix goes downstream with transverse 
oscillation. The evolved separatrices in the 
downstream area on this instant are in “S” shape to 
represent the oscillation direction of the merged jet.  
When the jet coming from the channel swings 
further leftwards, the momentum issued out of the left 
passage overwhelms the one issued out of the right 
passage so that the stagnation point (the four-way 
saddle S1) moves away from the central axis towards 
the right, as shown Fig. 9(b). The left standing vortex 
N1 therefore becomes larger than the right vortex N2. 
When the jet coming from the channel swings 
rightwards, the situations are mirror-reflected about 
the central axis, as shown in Figs. 9(a) and (b). The 
evolved separatrices in the downstream area during 
this “swinging rightwards” process are in the shape of 
inverse “S”. In short, the movement of the stagnation 
point at the vertex of the counter-rotating standing 
vortices is always opposite to that of the swing jet in 
the cavity. When the jet in the cavity swings to the left, 
the stagnation point moves to the right, and vice versa. 
When the jet in the cavity is at the left side of the 
cavity, the stagnation point would be located in the 
right side of the central axis and the shape of the 
oscillating jet downstream the stagnation point 
appears to be an “S”. When the situation is reversed, 
the oscillating jet downstream the stagnation point 
appears to be an inverse “S”. 
By counting the numbers of the critical points in 
Fig. 9, i.e., ∑N = 2, ∑N’ = 0, ∑S = 1, and ∑S’= 4, the 
expression (∑N+
2
1 ∑N’)-(∑S+
2
1 ∑S’) becomes -1, 
which satisfies the topological rule of Hunt et al. 
(1978). 
 
3.4 Instantaneous and averaged flow patterns 
The instantaneous quantitative velocity field 
downstream the fluidic oscillator is measured by the 
PIV system as stated in the section 2.4. Figure 10 
shows the typical measured instantaneous velocity 
vectors and the streamline patterns at the Reynolds 
number Red = 2000 and the deflection angle θ = 60o. 
The pulse separation and pulse width of the laser 
operation are set at 2 ms, 50 µs, respectively. The 
frame rate and exposure time of the camera are 400 
fps and 1/400 s, respectively. Figure 10(a) is on the 
instant of “swinging leftward” that the jet in the cavity 
just sweeps over the central axis from the right to the 
left. The flow field looks turbulent because of the 
agitation of the jet oscillation. Although it is turbulent, 
some large-scale flow features still can be identified. 
Just beneath the oscillator, the counter-rotating 
standing vortices have vague traces. The “S”-shaped 
oscillating jet stream is apparently identifiable. Figure 
10(b) is on the instant of “swinging rightward” that 
the jet in the cavity just sweeps over the central axis 
from the left to the right. The situation is similar to 
that of Fig. 10(a) except that the oscillation pattern of 
the jet becomes inverse “S”. The oscillating jet is 
originated from the stagnation point (the vertex) of the 
standing vortex pair. The environmental fluids are not 
directly entrained into the oscillating jet like that 
observed in the natural, non-oscillating jet (Van Dyke 
1982). Instead, the vortices are induced in the concave 
parts along sides of the oscillating jet. The side 
vortices and the high turbulence level induced by the 
oscillation motion of the jet may have profound 
influence on the entrainment and/or the mixing 
because the jet seems to expand pretty fast – the jet 
width at x ≈ 2W (~ 40d from the inlet of the cavity) 
expands to the width of about 1W (~20d). The spatial 
spread rate (jet width difference/axial distance 
difference) therefore is about 0.5 which is much larger 
than the spread rate (about 0.15) of a natural laminar 
non-oscillating planar jet (Gutmark & Ho 1983). 
Although the often used spread rate of the jet flow is 
not always a useful criterion for turbulent mixing (in 
periodically excited flows strong spread is observed in 
regions of formation of large vortices, which are 
relatively stable and therefore rather suppress the 
small scale mixing process), it still can be taken as an 
indication of lateral momentum dispersion if the 
 7
axis are shown in Fig. 15. The average velocity u  
and w  are the arithmetic averages of 2000 
instantaneous velocity components u and w, 
respectively. The values of w  along the central axis 
are not shown here because they are almost zero. The 
turbulence intensities are defined as u′ /Uj and 
w′ /Uj., where u′ and w′  are the root mean square 
values of the fluctuations of the velocity components 
u and w, respectively. As shown in Fig. 15(a), for the 
case of no deflection plates, the normalized axial 
velocity appears to be slightly negative because of the 
recirculation occurring there. In the downstream 
region about x/W > 1.5, the reverse flow on the central 
axis approaches becomes no longer obvious. When 
the deflection plates are installed, the axial velocities 
in the bubble region present negative values because 
of the flow reversal there. However, downstream the 
stagnation points, the axial velocity increases with the 
increase of the axial distance until x/W ≈ 1.8, then 
starts to drop quickly. The axial velocity distributions 
along the central axis of the presently developed 
oscillating jets are quite different from those of a 
natural, non-oscillating jet. The axial velocity on the 
central axis of a natural jet would maintain an almost 
constant value of the exit velocity in a short distance 
near the jet exit (usually called the potential core), 
then decreases gradually to zero in a distance of about 
150 ~ 200 times of the jet exit diameter. Apparently, 
the oscillation motion of the present oscillating jet 
induces large momentum diffusion in the lateral 
directions and therefore causes the axial momentum to 
drop rapidly in a much shorter distance than that of a 
natural jet.  
Figs. 15(b) and 15(c) show the axial and lateral 
turbulence intensities, respectively. The axial and 
lateral turbulence intensities with the deflection plates 
installed are much larger than those without the 
deflection plates. The turbulence intensities at θ = 60o 
are averagely about twice of those at θ = 20o. At θ = 
60o, the values of u′ /Uj and w′ /Uj may attain as 
high as 11% and 13%, respectively. If the 
normalization factor Uj is replaced by the local 
velocities, the turbulence intensities may even attain 
ten times of the present values. The present oscillating 
jet, rather than the natural jet, can apparently induce 
drastic increase in the turbulence fluctuations. This 
property could be of much benefit to the momentum 
exchange, mixing, and combustion if further polish 
can be done for applications. 
 
4. Conclusions 
An innovative fluidic oscillator is developed to 
induce transverse oscillation of the planar jet. The 
dynamic behaviors of the periodic flow structure and 
the turbulence properties are investigated 
experimentally. The conclusions listed below are 
drawn from the results and discussion. 
(1) By introducing a planar jet into a properly 
arranged geometric configuration, it is possible to 
induce self-sustained periodic flow swinging in 
the cavity and therefore to change the inherent 
stability characteristics of the jet from convective 
instability to absolute instability.  
(2) By proper arrangement of the fluidic oscillator, 
the swinging jet can be guided through passages 
to issue alternatively as two jets at inverse phase 
angle. The alternatively issued jets with inverse 
phase-angles can be deflected by plates to 
impinge each other and therefore form a 
counter-rotating vortex pair. The stagnation point 
of the vortex pair swings transversely and 
periodically because of the existing phase 
difference between the two issued jets. The 
periodic movement of the stagnation point causes 
the merged jet, which is originated from the 
stagnation point, to oscillate transversely. The 
oscillation frequency is increased proportionally 
to the increase of the Reynolds number. 
(3) The oscillating jet causes large lateral dispersion 
of the axial momentum so that the jet width 
expands very fast in a much shorter distance 
when compared with that of the natural jet. The 
statistical time- and length-scales of the large 
turbulence eddies are reduced and the turbulence 
intensities are drastically increased by transverse 
oscillation of the jet. Therefore, it would be 
beneficial to apply the presently developed jet 
oscillator to the situations requiring large 
momentum, mass, and energy dispersions in a 
short distance. 
 
REFERENCES 
BROWN, G. L. and ROSHKO, A. 1974 On density 
effects and large structure in turbulent mixing layers. 
J. Fluid Mech. 64, 775-816. 
CAMCI, C. and HERR, F. 2002 Forced convection 
heat transfer using a self-oscillating impinging planar 
jet. Journal of Heat Transfer, ASME Transactions. 
120, 770-782. 
CHONG, M. S. and PERRY, A. E. 1990 A general 
classification of three-dimensional flow fields. Phys. 
Fluids A, 2, 765-777. 
COLES, D. 1985 The uses of coherent structure, 
AIAA Paper 85-0506. 
FIEDLER, H. E. and FERNHOLZ, H.-H. 1990 On 
management and control of turbulent shear flows. 
Prog. Aerospace Sci. 27, 305-387. 
FIEDLER, H. E. and MENSING, P. 1985 The plane 
turbulent shear layer withperiodic excitation. J. Fluid 
Mech., 150, 281-309. 
FLAGAN, R. C. and SEINFELD, J. H. 1988 
Fundamentals of Air Pollution Engineering. 
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 
290-307. 
GAD-EL-HAK, M. 1998 Flow Control - 
Fundamentals and Practices, Eds. Gad-el-Hak, M., 
Pollard, A., and Bonnet, J.-P., Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 
335-429. 
GUTMARK, E. and HO, C.-M. 1983 Preferred modes 
and the spreading rates of jets. Phys. Fluids. 26, 
2932-1765. 
HUERRE, P. and MONKEWITZ, P. A. 1985 
 9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3  Oscillation process of jet in cavity of fluidic 
oscillator. t* = t ×Uj/d, Red = 1667, R/d = 4, h/d = 1.5. 
Frame rate = 60 fps. Exposure time = 1/60 s. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 Instability domain of jet oscillation. Deflection 
plates not installed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 Characteristics of oscillation frequency. (a) 
Fluidic oscillation frequencies at various jet velocities, 
(b) Strouhal numbers at various Reynolds numbers. 
Deflection plates not installed. R/d = 3.5, h/d = 2.5. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Instantaneous flow visualization picture of 
fluidic oscillator. Red = 2000, R/d = 3.5, h/d = 2.5. 
Frame rate = 60 fps. Exposure time = 1/60 s. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7 Instantaneous flow visualization picture of 
fluidic oscillator. Deflection plates installed, 
deflection angle θ = 60o. Red = 2000, R/d = 3.5, h/d = 
2.5. Frame rate = 60 fps. Exposure time = 1/60 s. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 (a) Oscillation frequencies at various jet 
velocities, (b) Strouhal numbers of jet oscillation at 
various Reynolds numbers. Deflection plates installed. 
R/d = 3.5, h/d = 2.5. 
 
