Random dot generation scheme using molecular dynamics method
for illumination design of a round plane LED source light guide
Jee-Gong Chang a,*, Yu-Bin Fang a, Shin-Pon Ju b, Jin-Yuan Hsieh c
aNational Center for High-Performance Computing, 741 Tainan, Taiwan
bDepartment of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engineering, Center for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, National Sun-Yat-Sen University, 804 Kaohsiung, Taiwan
cDepartment of Mechanical Engineering, Ming Hsin University of Science and Technology, 304 Hsinchu, Taiwan
a r t i c l e i n f o
Article history:
Received 9 January 2009
Received in revised form 29 October 2009
Accepted 11 November 2009
Available online 16 November 2009
Keywords:
Dot generation scheme
Molecular dynamics
Plane source
Dot pattern optimization
a b s t r a c t
This paper presents a dot generation scheme based on molecular dynamics (MD) method applied to the
illumination design of a round plane source lighting the round shape of an LCD display constituted by the
light emitting diodes (LEDs) and the light guide. This scheme accommodates the needs of the dot gener-
ation on the base of the round light guide and offers ﬂexibility in the adjustment of dot distribution,
which can been easily integrated with the optical design phase to reach the uniformity condition for a
plane source. The scheme employed a ﬁxed boundary technique, incorporated with the tangential ellip-
tical force ﬁeld to provide the best enclosure ability—this allows the dots to be kept within the boundary
points during the force regulation. A validation of present scheme is presented, and ﬁnally, an example of
the integration of the present scheme and optical design of the round light guide is presented and
discussed.
 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
Due to rapid progress in the increase of illumination efﬁciency
in light emitting diodes (LEDs) [1–4], there are great opportunities
for new illumination applications in daily use lighting, such as a
daylight lamp or lamp stand for house or ofﬁce, or for the present
applications of the plane light source for a larger size of LCD dis-
play—particularly attractive due to energy efﬁciency [5–7]. How-
ever, there are still difﬁculties in ﬁtting the LED light source to
the great variety of the lighting ﬁxtures or display shapes and in
improving the eye perception, due to the fact that the LED pos-
sesses a much stronger point source characteristic as compared
to the usual lamps. Thus, LED design needs to be implemented
with other optical components, such as the light guide itself, to
eliminate the point source characteristic and change its lighting
characteristics to meet illumination requirements.
Light guides have been used for various illumination applica-
tions, such as for the liquid crystal display [8], medical inspection
devices [9] and lighting [10]. In these applications, the diffuser dot
or microstructure [11] on the base of the light guide plays a very
important role in eliminating the LED point source characteristic
and in enabling the LED source to act as a uniform plane source
for these applications [12]. This also illustrates the light guide as
an important component in changing the LED lighting characteris-
tics. In order to achieve different lighting appearances to suit dif-
ferent purposes, both the shape of the light guide and the
diffuser dot distribution on it may be altered. For example, a round
LCD panel has been developed by Toshiba, Japan, and used in auto-
motive devices, portable devices and mobile phones, among other
applications [13]. In addition, in their claim [13], LCD panels can be
in other shapes such as triangles or ovals to ﬁt any display needs.
Thus, to achieve these requirements, the design tool must be very
versatile in both the arrangement of the diffuser dot or microstruc-
ture as well as the shape of the light guide. However, this demand
and the necessary design methodology is very seldom mentioned
in the existing literature.
One of the most difﬁcult aspects of illumination design in using
LEDs to achieve a uniform plane light source is how to generate a
dot distribution on the light guide and how to adjust the distribu-
tion to fulﬁll the uniformity condition. The main function of the dot
is to redirect the light from being internally reﬂected in the light
guide toward the eye inspection direction [14]. The solution lies
in the development of a generation algorithm that can precisely
control the dot density where the dot density needs to be adjusted
while at the same time keeping the dot distribution very smooth
everywhere. This ability to control the random dot distribution is
also the key factor to allow the developed algorithm to be further
integrated into the optical design phase. Idé et al. [15–17] devel-
oped a dot generation scheme based on the molecular dynamics
(MD) method for application in the dot distribution design of the
light guide by introducing the MD force regulation method to
0141-9382/$ - see front matter  2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.displa.2009.11.001
* Corresponding author. Tel.: +886 65050940.
E-mail address: changjg@nchc.org.tw (J.-G. Chang).
Displays 31 (2010) 44–53
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Displays
journal homepage: www.elsevier .com/locate /d ispla
x0
y0
 
¼ cosDHkl sinDHkl sinDHkl cosDHkl
 
 x xj
y yj
" #
ð5Þ
deﬁnes the coordinate transformation between x, y and x0, y0.
Instead of ﬁnding the xe and ye, which are located on the cir-
cumference of the ellipse, by using the x, y coordinate, it is more
convenient to employ the ellipse equation expression using the
x0, y0 coordinate,
x02
r2cut x;kl
þ y
02
r2cut y;kl
¼ 1 ð6Þ
To ﬁnd the rcu_e, it is more convenient to transform xi and yi
coordinates to the x0i and y
0
i coordinates, as
x0i ¼ cosDH  ðxi  xjÞ þ sinDH  ðyi  yjÞ
y0i ¼  sinDH  ðxi  xjÞ þ cosDH  ðyi  yjÞ ð7Þ
From Fig. 2, it can be easily seen, the x0e and y
0
e coordinates are the
intersection of the line connecting ellipse origin (0, 0) and (x0i, y
0
i),
and ellipse equation, as stated in Eq. (6). These two equations are
summarized as follows:
x02
r2cut x
þ y02
r2cut y
¼ 1
y0 ¼ y0ix0
i
 x0
8><
>: ð8Þ
The solution of Eq. (8) can be found,
x0e ¼ 
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
r2cut x  r2cut y  x02i
r2cut y  x02i þ r2cut x  y02i
s
; y0e ¼ 
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
r2cut x  r2cut y  y02i
r2cut y  x02i þ r2cut x  y02i
s
ð9Þ
and ﬁnally, the rcut_e can be found as,
rcut e ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
x02e þ y02e
q
¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
r2cut x  r2cut y  ðx02i þ y02i Þ
r2cut y  x02i þ r2cut x  y02i
s
ð10Þ
and,
rij ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
ðxi  xjÞ2 þ ðyi  yjÞ2
q
ð11Þ
Inspecting together with Eqs. (10) and (7), it can be easily seen
that if the r-cut distance, rcut e;kl, is independent of the angle be-
tween atoms j and atom i, when rcut y;kl is equal to rcut x;kl. Thus,
the force ﬁeld is effective in a circle within an area with a radius
of rcut e;kl, namely the isotropic force ﬁeld. The isotropic force ﬁeld
is applied to the dots within the boundary points. Further, at the
boundary points DHkl is set to a non zero value and rcut y;kl is not
equal to rcut x;kl, which will be introduced in Section 2.3.
2.1.2. Cell division and variable r-cut techniques
In order to achieve the variation in cell dot density, the r-cut va-
lue of rcut e;kl must also be varied with the dot density in each cell.
Firstly, the dot density in each cell is deﬁned as,
Dkl ¼ AdotAcell ¼
mklsf rmic x;kl rmic y;kl
Acell
ð12Þ
where Acell and Adot are the area of the square cell and the total area
of the dot in the cell, respectively; mkl is the number of dot in the
cell; sf is the shape factor (if a dot is round in shape, sf ¼ p, if it is
rectangular, sf ¼ 4); rmic x;kl and rmic y;kl are half lengths of the micro-
structure in x (short) and y (long) directions in the cell as shown in
Fig. 2a. Thus, the total area of the microstructure/dot is equal to mkl
times the individual microstructure area, sf rmic x;kl rmic y;kl.
As stated previously, every atom has an area in which its force
ﬁeld affects any another atom lying within an area known as the
effective area, as shown as the ellipse in Fig. 2a. If the atom is act-
ing on another atom, their effective areas are overlapping. Thus, if
an atom is not acting on other atoms, the effective area of every
atom does not overlap with any other. The point where the effec-
tive area just makes contact with another atom’s effective area is
known as the minimum effective area, and can be approximated as
Aeff min;kl ¼ Acellmkl ð¼ p  rcut x;kl  rcut y;klÞ ð13Þ
The additional parameter of the longitudinal/latitudinal (long
axis/short axis) ratio of the ellipse axes is deﬁned as,
ellkl ¼ rcut y;klrcut x;kl ð14Þ
Substituting the above Eq. (14) into Eq. (13), the rcut x;kl and
rcut y;kl can be obtained as,
rcut x;kl ¼ am
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
Acell
mkl  p  ellkl
s
and; rcut y;kl ¼ am
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
Acell  ellkl
mkl  p
s
ð15Þ
where am is a multiplier usually larger than 1 which is used to en-
sure that every atom is interactive with each other. Together with
Eqs. (15) and (12), it can be easily seen that the rcut x;kl, rcut y;kl will
be smaller when the dot density becomes larger, and ﬁnally lead
to rcut e;kl becoming larger too. Conversely, the rcut e;kl will be larger
when the dot density becomes smaller.
Finally, it can be noted that the ratio of the ellipse axes, ellkl, is
set equal to 1 for the dot within the boundary point (to create a cir-
cular force ﬁeld) and a value larger than 1 is set at the ﬁxed bound-
ary points, with the force ﬁeld oriented in order to construct an
‘‘enclosure” with the boundary points.
Cell k, l Cell (k+1), l
anticipated path
real path
a
b
Fig. 2. (a) Generalized force model and coordinate system and (b) reﬂective
boundary condition.
46 J.-G. Chang et al. / Displays 31 (2010) 44–53
Fig. 3. (a) Initial dot distribution before force regulation; dot distribution after force regulation (b) ﬁxed point number,mkl fixed ¼ 40, ﬁxed ratio of ellipse axes, ellkl fixed ¼ 2; (c)
ﬁxed point number,mkl fixed ¼ 200, ﬁxed ratio of ellipse axes, ellkl fixed ¼ 2; (d) ﬁxed point number,mkl fixed ¼ 35, ﬁxed ratio of ellipse axes, ellkl fixed ¼ 5; in the left half circle the
short axis of the force form is tangential to the circle circumference whereas in the right half circle the long axis of the force form is tangential to the circle circumference and
(e) ﬁxed point number, mkl fixed ¼ 35, ﬁxed ratio of ellipse axes, ellkl fixed ¼ 5, short axis of the force form alternates tangentially and vertically to the circle circumference.
Carried out on 10  10 cells with 500 total boundary points.
48 J.-G. Chang et al. / Displays 31 (2010) 44–53
tangential and vertical to the circle circumference. The calculations
are carried out on 10  10 cells for all cases and for 500 boundary
points. Each full cell has 50 dots for cases (a–d), and 70 dots for
case (e). For the partially ﬁlled cell, the number of dots is propor-
tional to its magnitude of the area, i.e., uniform distribution.
The initial dot distribution in Fig. 3a is constructed by a regular
dot arrangement and random dot arrangement, as stated previ-
ously. Comparing Fig. 3a and b, it can be seen that the dot distribu-
tion can reach a very uniform level, even for some regions where
the random dots are gathered very closely, which appears in
Fig. 3a. In addition, close inspection of the dot distribution across
cell boundaries reveals that it is difﬁcult to ﬁnd any trace of the
boundary from the dot arrangement. Note that there is a gap be-
tween the inner dots and the boundary points at a parameter of
mkl fixed ¼ 40. In Fig. 3c, however, this parameter becomes larger
at mkl fixed ¼ 200, where the gap between the inner dots and the
boundary also becomes smaller, which can also be seen in Eq.
(13), where the affected area enclosed by rcut x and rcut y becomes
smaller when mkl fixed increases. This is also to illustrate that the
gap between the inner dots and the boundary points can easily
be controlled by the parameter of mkl fixed. In Fig. 3d and e, the
boundary control is shown to illustrate the variation of the force
ﬁeld orientation while keeping the ratio of the ellipse axes,
ellkl fixed ¼ 5 and the number of ﬁxed points, mkl fixed ¼ 35 to inﬂu-
ence the inner dot arrangement. It can be seen that the gap dis-
tance between the inner dots and the boundary points at the left
half circle is larger than that of at the right half circle in Fig. 3d,
while the gap distance between the inner dots and the boundary
becomes alternately bigger and smaller along the entire circumfer-
ence of the circle in Fig. 3e. In Fig. 3d, this is due to, in the left half
circle, the elliptic long axis of the force form being perpendicular to
the circumference while in the right half circle the elliptic long axis
of the force form being tangential to the circumference. In Fig. 3e,
the alternatively smaller and bigger gap distance is due to the ellip-
tic long axis of the force form being alternatively perpendicular
and tangential to the circumference. From the results, not only
can the tangential orientation of the elliptic long axis provide the
enclosure ability for the inner dots, but the gap between the inner
dot and the boundary can be also easily controlled by the change of
the boundary point parameters, mkl fixed and ellkl fixed. This gives an
Fig. 6. Non-uniform dot distribution (a) a concentric distribution radiating from the circle center; (b) a concentric distribution but radiating from the lower right corner and
(c) a elliptically concentric distribution also from the lower right corner. Carried out on 50  50 cells, ﬁxed boundary point, mfixed ¼ 500, and the ratio of the ellipse axes,
ellkl fixed ¼ 5.
50 J.-G. Chang et al. / Displays 31 (2010) 44–53
be 50.0 mm in diameter. The region outside the VA is covered by
the cover tape. The microstructure on the base of the light guide
is a microlens with a diameter of 100 lm and a depth of 30 lm.
The optical deign employs LightTools, a commercially available
software. The dot pattern optimization is done on a set of divided
50  50 cells and is iterated automatically by combining the dot
pattern generation program proposed in this study and the optimi-
zation rule written in VB (visual basic) language [21]. The original
dot distribution is from an equal density distribution condition, the
proportional rule stating that the illuminance is proportional to the
dot density of each cell (the detailed formulation and the optimiza-
tion procedure can be seen in [18]) and will automatically update
the dot density for each cell depending on the feedback of the opti-
cal design software. The iteration ceases upon reaching the unifor-
mity condition, which is deﬁned as when the minimum
illumination divided by the maximum illuminance reaches 80%.
After 28 iterations, the illuminance result is shown as in Fig. 7b
with the uniformity at 82%. Finally, the remaining dot number at
the ﬁnal stage is 76,743.
Figs. 8a and b show a graphical and pictorial representation,
respectively, of the dot density distribution of the illuminance dis-
tribution of Fig. 7b produced at the ﬁnal stage. In Fig. 8a, the dot
density is concentrically distributed within the inner portion of
the round light guide, while the dot density varies high and low
circumferentially in the outer portions of the light guide. Along
the circumference of the light guide, the density is high at the re-
gions between the two LED point sources and is low at the regions
in front of the LEDs in the outer portion of the light guide. In the
Reflecting sheet
Housing
Light guide plate
Cover tape
LEDs
LEDs
LED
V-cut
Light guide
90 deg 0.1mm
0.16mm
Light guide
Air
0.1mm
0.03mm
a
b
Fig. 7. (a) Schematic diagram of a plane source constituted by four LEDs and a round light guide with other components, in which the two lower insets are the inlet structure
and its top view and the upper inset is the dot structure and (b) illuminance result after reaching uniformity condition.
52 J.-G. Chang et al. / Displays 31 (2010) 44–53
IOP PUBLISHING JOURNAL OF OPTICS A: PURE AND APPLIED OPTICS
J. Opt. A: Pure Appl. Opt. 11 (2009) 125502 (9pp) doi:10.1088/1464-4258/11/12/125502
Optical design of LED edge-lit backlight
based on molecular dynamics method
using a random/regular composite
distribution
Jee-Gong Chang1,4, Shin-Pon Ju2, Shin-Chin Lee2 and
Jin-Yuan Hsieh3
1 National Center for High-Performance Computing, No. 28, Nan-Ke 3rd Road, Hsin-Shi,
Tainan 744, Taiwan
2 Department of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engineering, Center for Nanoscience and
Nanotechnology, National Sun-Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung, 804, Taiwan
3 Department of Mechanical Engineering, Ming Hsin University of Science and Technology,
Hsinchu 304, Taiwan
E-mail: changjg@nchc.org.tw
Received 2 April 2009, accepted for publication 7 August 2009
Published 21 September 2009
Online at stacks.iop.org/JOptA/11/125502
Abstract
A dot generation scheme for random/regular composite distribution is developed based on the
molecular dynamics (MD) method for application in light guide design. This is done by
introducing random r-cut values in the force field acting between dots. The results indicated that
the developed scheme can effectively randomize a regular distribution by increasing the random
component of the r-cut value. In addition, for a composite distribution, in order to obtain a
smooth distribution across the random/regular distribution interface, there cannot be a large
difference between the expected r-cut value for these two distributions; otherwise, a distinct
linear strip will occur. Finally, two practical examples are presented. One randomizes an
already optimized dot distribution in a regular arrangement. The other uses a composite
distribution generated by the present scheme which is substituted into the optical software to
perform the optical optimization. These two examples prove the validity of the present scheme
and its efficient application in the optical design of light guides.
Keywords: random pattern generation scheme, composite distribution, regular distribution,
molecular dynamics, light guide, backlight optical system design
(Some figures in this article are in colour only in the electronic version)
1. Introduction
For liquid crystal displays (LCD), an effective way to
redirect the light out to achieve illumination is by producing
microstructures (dots) on the base of the light guide used in the
edge-lit backlight. A dot distribution optimization method is
necessary in order to reach the uniformity requirement, defined
as the ratio between minimum and maximum luminance within
the entire backlight. If such a uniformity requirement is not
4 Author to whom any correspondence should be addressed.
met, the backlight will have obvious brighter and dimmer
patches, and be unsuitable for use.
Generally speaking, there are two dot distribution
methods: one is random distribution [1–3] and the other one
is regular distribution [4, 5]. Each has its own advantages
and disadvantages. For example, the advantage of the regular
arrangement of the dot distribution lies in its simplicity
and ability to produce high density in the close-packed
arrangement. However, its disadvantage is the visual defect,
Moire´ [6, 7], arising from the interference of a too regular
1464-4258/09/125502+09$30.00 © 2009 IOP Publishing Ltd Printed in the UK1
J. Opt. A: Pure Appl. Opt. 11 (2009) 125502 J-G Chang et al
(a) (b) (c)
Figure 1. (a) Schematic diagrams of the cell divisions; k is column number and l is row number. The circles shown in the cells are the force
fields of the dots. In the square dot on the left, the force field is larger due to lower dot density and vice versa in the square dot on the right, as
indicated by equation (6). (b) Force variation along the atomic distance, ri j . (c) Generalized force model and coordinate system.
Figure 1(c) shows an atom i within the force field of
atom j and generally assumes the force filed of atom j is
an elliptical shape [15], which better accommodates the shape
of microstructures other than a circular dot, such as a slender
rectangle [15] or arc shapes, which need a anisotropic force
to uniformly distribute them. In order to find the force
of atom j acting on atom i , we need to find the rcut e,kl ,
i.e. the distance between (xe, ye) and (x j , y j ), and the
ri j(=
√
(xi − x j)2 + (yi − y j)2).
In figure 1(c), two coordinate systems are systematically
introduced as x , y and x ′, y ′ coordinate systems. Two
coordinate systems satisfies two relationships, which are
θ ′ = θ − kl (4)
where θ = tan−1( yi−y j
xi −x j ) and kl is the rotation
angle between two coordinate systems, and the following
equation (5):
[
x ′
y ′
]
=
[
cos kl sin kl
−sinkl cos kl
]
·
[
x − x j
y − y j
]
(5)
to define the coordinate transformation between x , y and x ′, y ′.
Instead of finding the xe and ye, which are located on the
circumference of the ellipse, by using the x , y coordinate, it
is more convenient to employ the ellipse equation expression
using the x ′, y ′ coordinate:
x ′2
r 2cut x,kl
+ y
′2
r 2cut y,kl
= 1. (6)
Similarly, xi and yi , see figure 1(c), can be expressed by using
the x ′, y ′ coordinate system as x ′i and y ′i by using the relation
of equation (5). From figure 1(c), it can be easily seen that the
x ′e and y ′e coordinates are the intersection of the line connecting
the ellipse origin (0, 0) and (x ′i , y ′i), which can be expressed as
y ′ = y
′
i
x ′i
· x ′ (7)
x ′e and y ′e are the solution of equations (6) and (7), and finally
the rcut e,kl can be found as
rcut e,kl =
√
x ′2e + y ′2e =
√√√√r
2
cut x,kl · r 2cut y,kl · (x ′2i + y ′2i )
r 2cut y,kl · x ′2i + r 2cut x,kl · y ′2i
.
(8)
Finally, note that the rotation angle, kl , can be specified
differently in different cells so as to achieve a specific
microstructure distribution and orientation.
2.3. Variable r-cut technique
In order to achieve the variation of the dot density among the
cells, the r-cut value of rcut e,kl must also be varied with the
dot density in each cell. Firstly, the dot density in each cell is
defined as
Dkl = Adot totalAcell =
mkl · Adot
Acell
(9)
where Adot total is the total area of the dot in cell kl and is equal
to mkl , which is the total number of dots in cell kl, multiplied
by an individual dot area, Adot.
In order to ensure that all of the dots in one cell can interact
with all of their neighboring dots, the total area enclosed by the
r-cut radius, Ar,kl , defined as the interactive area, should extend
beyond the boundaries of the individual cell. In the limiting
case, the smallest interactive area, Ar min,kl , in cell kl is given
by
Ar min,kl = Acell
mkl
(= π · rcut min x,kl · rcut min y,kl ). (10)
The additional parameter of the longitudinal/latitudinal (long
axis/short axis) ratio of the ellipse axes is defined as
ellkl = rcut y,kl
rcut x,kl
. (11)
3
J. Opt. A: Pure Appl. Opt. 11 (2009) 125502 J-G Chang et al
(a) (b)
(c)
Figure 3. Dot density along the x direction for different combinations of am and bm values. For the random region am = 7, (a) for regular
region am and bm are (7, 0), (6, 0), (5.5, 0) and (5, 0); (b) for regular region am and bm are (0, 14), (0, 12), (0, 11) and (0, 10); (c) for random
region am = 7 and regular region am and bm are (7, 0), (6, 2), (4, 6) and (2, 10). Some related distributions are shown in the insets.
indicates there is no overlapping of the force field due to a small
r-cut value (am), producing dots that nearly touch.
In figure 2(b), the dashed line shows the standard deviation
of the nearest-neighborhood distance for different am and bm
values, but keeping the same expected r-cut value of 7 at a
dot density 0.36; for example, if am = 7 then bm = 0, and
if am = 4 then bm = 6. The result indicates the standard
deviation will become larger as bm increases. The related
distributions are shown in the insets in the figure for am and bm
equal to (7, 0) and (1, 12). These results are straightforward
because bm introduces the fluctuation of the r-cut value from
equation (6). A larger bm will introduce larger fluctuation,
which will lead to higher randomness in the distribution.
3.2. Regular region
In figure 2(b), the solid line shows the standard deviation of the
nearest-neighborhood distance for different am and bm values
at a dot density of 0.36. As previously, the combination of
these values of am and bm makes a total expected r-cut value
equal to 7.0. The three small insets in the lower part of the
figure are the related distributions at three different values of
am and bm : (1, 12), (4, 6) and (7, 0). This result indicates
that, as bm becomes larger, the standard deviation will become
larger and the distribution will become more random, and
vice versa as bm becomes smaller. Special attention should
be paid to distributions for am and bm equal to (1, 12) and
(7, 0). In the former, though the larger bm will introduce
the higher randomness, it may cause overlapping between the
dots. On the other hand, in the latter, bm = 0 does not
introduce any randomness, leading to a final distribution the
same as the initial. Table 1 lists the critical bm values where
overlapping begins to occur for different dot densities. As
shown in table 1, as the dot density increases, to avoid the
presence of overlapping, the critical bm value must become
smaller.
Referring back to figure 2(b), the solid and dashed
standard deviation lines are linear and quadratic, respectively,
in their relationship to the bm value. This indicates that
the randomness is more effectively increased for the regular
distribution than for the random distribution when the bm
value increases from 0 to 14. However, the randomness of
5
J. Opt. A: Pure Appl. Opt. 11 (2009) 125502 J-G Chang et al
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 5. Dot distribution at certain sub-domains after randomization
from figure 4 for different values of am and bm ; (a) am = 7 and
bm = 0; (b) am = 3 and bm = 8; (c) am = 0 and bm = 14.
to perform optical optimization, where the dot distribution is
updated according to the feedback of the illuminance result
until the dot distribution meets the equal illuminance condition.
Each LED used in the second example is 1300 mcd and has an
angle of half-intensity of 50◦.
3.4.1. Regular arrangement to random arrangement.
Figure 4(a) shows a typical regular arrangement of the dot
distribution. The sub-domains marked with red rectangles are
also shown in figure 4(b). It can easily be recognized that the
entire dot distribution in figure 4(a) is performed to adjust the
distance between dots at different locations on the y axis in
order to obtain the required dot density. The position along the
x axis is set in advance according to the density distribution
along the x direction. As can be seen in figure 4(b), the distance
between two dots in the horizontal (x) direction is less in sub-
Figure 6. Error percentage of the illuminance of the randomized
distributions for am and bm of (7, 0), (3, 8) and (0, 14) compared to
that before randomization.
(a)
(b)
Figure 7. (a) Dot distribution during the iterations for sub-domain D,
which shows a transition region from a random distribution to a
regular distribution; top row is initial; middle row is iteration 6;
lowest row is final at iteration 15. (b) Dot density and related dot size
along x direction at initial.
domain I, which is close to the right end of the light guide,
than in sub-domain A, which is at the inlet region (far left
end) of the light guide. In each column in the light guide
7
J. Opt. A: Pure Appl. Opt. 11 (2009) 125502 J-G Chang et al
distribution can be effectively randomized by an increase in the
bm value.
The final test is to compare the illuminance of the
distributions which have been randomized from a regular
distribution by different values of am and bm to the
original, regular distribution as shown in figure 4(a). Note
that the illuminance uniformity is equivalent to ensure the
luminance uniformity, which can be referenced in our previous
articles [17, 18]. Figure 6 shows the error percentage of
the illuminance results of figures 5(a)–(c) relative to that of
figure 4(a). The result is obtained by substituting the dot
distributions into the optical software. Note that the two-
dimensional illuminance distribution has been averaged in
the vertical direction. In the figure, the horizontal axis is
represented as the x position from the left end of the light
guide. The errors are all within 3% in figure 6, showing that
the illuminance results are still close to the original. This
adequately shows that this scheme can also be applied to a
previously made distribution in a simple regular distribution.
3.4.2. Combining regular and random arrangements.
Figure 7(a) at the top panel shows the initial dot distribution
used for the first iteration of the optical design at different
locations, which is indicated on the left in the inset, where
in sub-domain D it shows a transition region from a random
distribution to a regular distribution. After that, the dot
distribution is modified by the result of its illuminance result.
As stated previously, the dot density increases where the
illuminance result is lower than the average and vice versa. The
am and bm are set as 7 and 0 for the regular region. The rest
of the results in figure 7(a) are the dot distribution at different
iteration stages. Figure 7(b) shows the related dot density and
the dot size along the x direction. It can be seen that the initial
dot density is a smooth quadratic function of the x position
and dot size also varies along the x direction. The jump in the
dot size is the adjustment of the dot size in the regular region
in order to obtain a smooth transition in dot density from the
random region to the regular region.
Figure 8 shows the illuminance results during the
iterations and at final convergence. The uniformity gradually
increases with an increase of the iteration number. The final
convergent uniformity is 83.0%—at initial it is 44.4%, at
iteration 6 it is 60.0%. The dot distributions corresponding
to iteration 6 and final are shown in detail at the middle row
and lowest row of figure 7(a), respectively. These distributions
display a significant change in dot density between the regions
between the two LEDs and the regions just in front of them.
4. Conclusion
In this paper, we have shown MD pattern generation abilities
to randomize a regular distribution and to integrate the random
and regular arrangements into one distribution; both can be
used for the optical design of the light guide. This is done
by introducing a random component to the r-cut value, which
is designated by bm , while the other constant component
value is designated by am . The result indicates that bm can
effectively control the randomness of the distribution. This
method can be used to randomize an already-made regular
distribution satisfying the uniform illuminance requirement. In
addition, the comparison of the illuminance results between
those randomized and the original one also indicates only a
small difference between them, showing this method can be
applied to a regular distribution which already meets the optical
requirement.
In addition, for a distribution consisting of both random
and regular regions, there cannot be too large a difference
in r-cut values between these two regions, otherwise the
unbalanced force acting between them leads to the creation of
a distinct strip shape between them. Because bm introduces
the randomness of the distribution, the criterion to select the
bm value for this kind of composite distribution is to be low
enough to avoid the overlapping of the dots. This composite
distribution can also be used as the initial phase for the optical
design. By the feedback of illuminance obtained from the
optical design software, optimal dot distribution which fulfills
the uniform illuminance requirement of the light guide can then
be found.
Acknowledgment
The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support
provided to this study by the National Science Council,
Republic of China, under grant no. NSC 97-2221-E-492-003-
MY2.
References
[1] Chang J -G and Lee C -T 2007 J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 24 839
[2] Chang J-G, Lee C-T, Fang Y-B and Hwang C-C 2007 Comput.
Phys. Commun. 177 851
[3] Chang J-G, Su M-H, Lee C-T and Hwang C-C 2005 J. Appl.
Phys. 98 114910
[4] Chang J-G and Fang Y-B 2007 Opt. Eng. 46 043002
[5] Lee Y K, Lim T K, Lee Y W and Lee I W 2005 Opt. Eng.
44 014004
[6] Ide´ T, Mizuta H, Numata H, Taira Y, Suzuki M,
Noguchi M and Katsu Y 2003 J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 20 248
[7] Amidror I 2000 The Theory of the Moire´ Phenomenon
(Dordrecht: Kluwer)
[8] Chang J-G and Fang Y-B 2008 Displays 29 285
[9] Ide´ T, Mizuta H, Numata H, Taira Y, Suzuki M,
Noguchi M and Katsu Y 2003 J. Soc. Inf. Disp. 11 659
[10] Chang J -G, Hwang C -C, Ju S -P and Huang S -H 2004
Carbon 42 2609
[11] Ju S -P, Chang J -G, Lin J -S and Lin Y -S 2005 J. Chem. Phys.
122 154707
[12] Hwang C-C, Chang J-G, Weng M-H and Lin H-C 2003 J. Vac.
Sci. Technol. B 21 2404
[13] Ju S-P, Lee W-J, Chen H-C and Chang J-G 2007 Appl. Phys.
Lett. 90 143112
[14] Haile J M 1992 Molecular Dynamics Simulation: Elementary
Methods (New York: Wiley)
[15] Chang J-G, Fang Y-B and Ju S-P 2009 Comput. Phys.
Commun. 180 1259
[16] LightTools 2005 Optical Research Associates
[17] Chang J-G, Fang Y-B and Lin C-F 2006 Opt. Eng. 45 056402
[18] Chang J-G and Yang P-H 2006 J. Opt. A: Pure Appl. Opt.
8 981
9
tion.15–17 However, neither Chang et al.12 nor Idé13,14 show
the ability of the dot generation scheme to handle a thin
light guide on an order of several million dots, which takes
a significantly longer time to obtain uniform dot distribu-
tion after the molecular dynamics MD calculation of force
regulation. This would limit the usage of the generation
scheme to midsized backlights with a thin light guide, also
called a thin backlight. Thus, the development of a more
efficient generation scheme that can handle a large number
of dots on the light guide is undoubtedly needed.
The objective of this study is to develop a dot generation
scheme that can handle a typical backlight on the order of
several millions dots for use in a midsized LED thin back-
light. This scheme is based on the MD method and incor-
porates several new techniques—the periodic boundary
condition and fixed-cell boundary condition—that geo-
metrically reduce the MD calculation from that of the
whole light guide domain to only a very small portion of
the domain. This significantly reduces the computational
effort and makes the generation scheme so efficient that the
subsequent optical optimization of the dot pattern can be
done on a simple PC. After describing this present scheme,
this paper takes as an application an example of a 14-in
backlight to illustrate the validity of the scheme and to
present the optical optimization of the dot distribution.
2 Mathematics Formulation
2.1 Motion Equation
The mass center of the microstructure can be considered as
an atom, and its motion obeys Newton’s second law, simi-
lar to the usual treatment in the MD method, such that
m
d2ri
dt2
+ cd
dri
dt
= 
j
n
fijrij , 1
where ri is the position of the i’th atom, m is the atom
mass, cd is the damping term, fij is the force exerted on
atom i by neighboring atom j, n is the total number of
neighboring atoms around atom i, and rij = ri−r j, with the
final expression fijrij Ref. 10 being
fijrij =
rij
rij
exp− rijckl , 2
where rij = rij, ckl is the force control parameter, and sub-
script k and l are the cell division row and column numbers,
as shown in Fig. 1a. Notice that in Fig. 1a, the original
domain is divided into several subdomains called cells. In
these cells, every force parameter, ckl, is the force control
parameter, and subscripts k and l are the cell division in
row number and in column number, as shown in Fig. 1a.
In Fig. 1a, the original domain is divided into a number of
smaller cells whose dot densities can be individually ad-
justed. As discussed in the following, the force control pa-
rameter, ckl, is dependent on the dot density in each cell kl.
In each cell kl, the force control parameter is given by:
ckl =
− ln fre
rcut,kl
, 3
where fre is the residual force at the r-cut distance in each
cell kl. It is noted that fre tends toward zero when rij is
larger than or equal to the r-cut distance, rcut,kl. In general,
a small value of a nonzero of fre is used to consider the dot
size in practice. During the force calculations, the neighbor-
ing atoms of each atom are identified using the Verlet
algorithm,18 which reduces the n2 search to an n search, and
the force control parameter is determined according to their
distances.
As described earlier, the proposed MD dot generation
algorithm separates the domain of interest into a prescribed
number of individual cells in order to enhance the flexibil-
ity of the dot density adjustment procedure. In one cell, kl,
the dot density is defined as:
Dkl =
Adot
Acell
=
mkl ·  · r
2
Acell
, 4
where mkl is the total number of dots in cell kl, and r is the
radius of the individual dots. In the current approach, each
cell is considered to be rectangular, and it is assumed that
the dot radius remains constant throughout the domain.
Cell
(k,l)
Cell
(k+1,l)
Cell
(k,l+1)
Original domain
(a)
(b)
Fig. 1 a Schematic diagram of cell technique, the original domain
being divided into a number of subdomains called cells. b The
upper panel shows the variable r-cut technique, where the r-cut is
large when the dot density in a cell is small and, conversely, the r-cut
is small when the dot density in a cell is large. This is done by
changing of the r-cut value in each cell to attain variable dot density.
The force control parameter, ckl, is averaged when the force field of
the dot in cell kl is toward cell k+1l, as shown in upper part of the
force field enclosed by the dashed circle. The lower panel shows the
reflective boundary condition in each cell, where the dot will reflect
back to its original cell if another dot is moving across the cell
boundary.
Chen et al.: Use of molecular dynamics method for dot pattern design of a thin light guide in an LED backlight
Optical Engineering October 2009/Vol. 4810104002-2
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 03 Nov 2009 to 140.116.155.8. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
random dot distribution after the force regulation, done
without the benefit of reducing the number of necessary
domain calculations that our dot generation scheme pro-
vides by using the periodic boundary and fixed-cell bound-
ary conditions. Employing these geometrical conditions in-
creases the ability to handle the distribution of a large
number of dots for use on the base of the light guide.
Figure 2 shows the layout of a 14-in light guide, which
has 40 LED light sources along its left edge. The geometri-
cal conditions depicted in the right panels of Fig. 2 are used
to reduce the number of dots employed in the dot genera-
tion scheme. The first is the periodic boundary condition,
labeled as a, which generates the dots in the domains ex-
tending from each LED but does not affect the last domain
on either end of the light guide. Here, we make an assump-
tion in applying the periodic condition such that the dis-
crepancy of each LED light source is assumed to be negli-
gible. In fact, in the optical design phase, each LED light
source is set using identical specifications. The second geo-
metrical condition is that of the fixed-cell boundary condi-
tion, which generates a continuous-change dot pattern dis-
tribution in the uppermost and lowermost domains, labeled
as c and b, respectively. The use of these two conditions is
the most efficient way to reduce the large number of dots
used in the dot generation scheme. The reason for the use
of the periodic condition rather than another geometrical
condition, such as the symmetry condition, is that the dot
pattern needs to be repeatable such that there is no distin-
guishable border between adjacent bands, which causes vi-
sual defects of dark stripes on the backlight. The domains at
both ends, labeled as b and c, are not suitable for the peri-
odic condition because there is no LED light source in
those areas adjacent to domain a. To avoid a discontinuous
dot pattern across the topmost domain boundary, the upper
part of domain a which borders domain c, marked as the
gray region, must utilize a fixed-cell boundary condition,
which can pass the acting force onto the dots of the lower
part of domain c which borders domain a. The same con-
dition is true for the lower part of domain a, as it contacts
the upper part of domain b with a fixed-cell boundary con-
dition.
In the following sections, the details of these two bound-
ary conditions are provided.
2.3.1 Periodic boundary condition
The schematic diagram of the periodic boundary condition
for domain a is shown in Fig. 3a. Part of the benefit of
using the periodic boundary condition is that calculations
need be made for only one band, which can then by re-
peated throughout domain a. In order for continuity of
these repeated bands, the single band is calculated so that
the cells of the bottom of the band are mapped as if they
bordered the topmost cells of the band, and vice versa. The
single band can then be duplicated as necessary with total
continuity. In addition, should it be necessary although in
this light guide, it is not the leftmost cells can be similarly
mapped as if they bordered the rightmost cells, to make the
geometry extendable along these two directions. Using
these parameters, the dot pattern can become truly periodic
and extendable in all directions.
2.3.2 Fixed-cell boundary condition
The schematic diagram of the fixed-cell boundary condition
is depicted in Fig. 3b. This condition requires a two-step
process. The dots in the cells at the outer edge of domain a
are first suitably arranged by force regulation. Next, they
are selected and fixed at the outer edge of the domain and
are used for the force regulation for the domain adjacent to
it—domain c for the top of domain a, and domain b for the
bottom. Although the dot positions are fixed during the
force regulation, the force still acts on the other moveable,
unfixed, dots in the adjacent domain. The use of this fixed-
cell boundary condition allows for dot pattern generation in
a step-by-step manner, first doing the force regulation for
one domain and fixing the fixed-cell boundary condition for
the next adjacent domain, and then doing the force regula-
tion again to obtain the new dot arrangement. From the
theoretical MD viewpoint previously introduced, it is not
necessary to select the whole domain as the fixed-cell
boundary condition. A thickness of only one adjacent cell is
enough to act as the boundary condition because the r-cut
is restricted in one cell see Sec. 2 for explanation—that is,
the interaction force distance between dots is not longer
than one cell.
(a)
(b)
Fig. 3 a Schematic diagram of the periodic boundary condition.
The two areas enclosed by the red line represent the topmost and
bottommost cells in one band. The gray dot areas are the mapping
areas related to the topmost and bottommost cells. b The fixed-cell
boundary condition is represented by the well-arranged gray dots in
the upper part marked with a dotted red line; they remain un-
changed at their positions. The dots in the lower part are expected
to obtain the uniform random dot distribution after force regulation.
Color online only.
Chen et al.: Use of molecular dynamics method for dot pattern design of a thin light guide in an LED backlight
Optical Engineering October 2009/Vol. 4810104002-4
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 03 Nov 2009 to 140.116.155.8. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
circle. In the left circle, a dot—rather than a vacancy—
exists along the boundary. The dots of the lower domain are
repulsed, the end result being dots clustered less densely
than in the right circle. Although the dots remained fixed,
the forces still act not only within the fixed-cell domain but
also on the region outside those fixed cells. In addition, the
boundary between the dot distribution domains is difficult
to differentiate.
Figure 5 shows a dot distribution, the density of which
increases when moving clockwise starting from the lower-
left corner. The dot distribution is constructed in a step-by-
step manner, where the dot distribution is built in one do-
main at a time, as shown in Fig. 5a, where a, b, c, and d
are one-quarter of the total area. The procedure begins from
domain a first, where the dot distribution is constructed by
the force regulation process. Next, the area bordering do-
main b, marked in orange, is recorded and set as the fixed-
cell boundary condition for use in building the next do-
main. This process is repeated, successively constructing
the whole area, with each ‘orange area’ representing those
areas that become fixed for the construction of the subse-
quent domain. Note that two fixed-cell boundary condition
areas are needed for the last domain d. The final result, as
shown in Fig. 5b, shows a very smooth dot distribution
and no easily distinguishable boundary between two do-
mains. In this example, we have illustrated that the dot
distribution of a large domain can be constructed by de-
composing the whole domain into several subdomains by
employing the fixed-cell boundary condition. The compu-
tational time consumed was also reduced in this example,
with the average time used for a quarter of the whole do-
(a)
(b)
Reflecting sheet
Housing
LEDs
Cover
50um
20um
25um
Light guide plate
310mm176mm
0
51.5
103
154.5
206
310
0
103
206
X (mm)Y (mm)
D
e
n
s
it
y
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Fig. 6 a Schematic diagram of the optical model for the light guide module. b Illuminance distribu-
tion and the related dot density distribution.
Chen et al.: Use of molecular dynamics method for dot pattern design of a thin light guide in an LED backlight
Optical Engineering October 2009/Vol. 4810104002-6
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 03 Nov 2009 to 140.116.155.8. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
optical optimization of the dot pattern of an LED thin light
guide with a large number of dots. The periodic boundary
condition utilizes a dot pattern with repeatable characteris-
tics such that only one pattern is necessary to represent the
entire area. The fixed-cell boundary condition can extend
the continuity of the dot distribution by imposing this con-
dition prior to the force regulation of an adjacent domain in
a step-by-step manner. By taking advantage of these two
geometrical conditions, the generation scheme can signifi-
cantly reduce computational efforts and separate the whole
domain calculation into only three individual subdomain
calculations to reach a uniform random distribution for the
LED thin backlight. This allows the ability for dot pattern
generation, as well as dot pattern optimization, to extend to
the order of several million dots in order to meet the design
requirement of the LED thin backlight. The practical ex-
ample of a 14-in backlight also shows the validity of the
present proposed scheme.
Acknowledgments
The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support
provided to this study by the National Science Council,
Republic of China, under Grant No. NSC 97-2221-E-492-
003-MY2.
References
1. H. W. Choi, M. D. Dawson, P. R. Edwards, and R. W. Martin, “High
extraction efficiency InGaN micro-ring light-emitting diodes,” Appl.
Phys. Lett. 8322, 4483–4485 2003.
2. H. W. Choi, C. W. Jeon, M. D. Dawson, P. R. Edwards, R. W. Martin,
and S. Tripathy, “Mechanism of enhanced light output efficiency in
InGaN-based microlight emitting diodes,” J. Appl. Phys. 9310,
5978–5982 2003.
3. C. C. Kao, H. C. Kuo, H. W. Huang, J. T. Chu, Y. C. Peng, Y. L.
Hsieh, C. Y. Luo, S. C. Wang, C. C. Yu, and C. F. Lin, “Light-output
enhancement in a nitride-based light-emitting diode with 22 deg un-
dercut sidewall,” IEEE Photonics Technol. Lett. 171, 19–21 2005.
4. H. W. Huang, J. T. Chu, C. C. Kao, T. H. Hseuh, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo,
S. C. Wang, and C. C. Yu, “Enhanced light output of an InGaN /GaN
light emitting diode with a nano-roughened p-GaN surface,” Nano-
technology 16, 1844–1848 2005.
5. J. H. Lee, W. Chang, and D. Choi, “LED light coupler design for an
ultrathin light guide,” J. Opt. Soc. Korea 113, 113–117 2007.
6. K. D. Lee, “Backlight assembly and liquid crystal display apparatus
having the same,” U.S. patent No. 6,942,374 2008.
7. T. Murata and I. Fujieda, “Input couplers for thin light-guides and
light-emitting diodes,” Opt. Eng. 472, 027001 2008.
8. A. Funamoto and S. Aoyama, “LED backlight system with double-
prism pattern,” J. Soc. Inf. Disp. 1410–12, 1045–1051 2006.
9. Apple, MacBook Pro website, http://www.apple.com/mac/.
10. J. G. Chang and C. T. Lee, “Random-dot pattern design of a light
guide in an edge-lit backlight: integration of optical design and dot
generation scheme by the molecular-dynamics method,” J. Opt. Soc.
Am. A 24, 839–849 2007.
11. J. G. Chang, M. H. Su, C. T. Lee, and C. C. Hwang, “Generating
random and non-overlapping dot patterns for LCD backlight light
guides using molecular dynamics method,” J. Appl. Phys. 98, 114910
2005.
12. J. G. Chang, C. T. Lee, Y. B. Fang, and C. C. Hwang, “Generation of
random non-overlapping dot patterns for light guides using molecular
dynamics simulations with variable r-cut and reflective boundary
techniques,” Comput. Phys. Commun. 177, 851–862 2007.
13. T. Idé, H. Mizuta, H. Numata, Y. Taira, M. Suzuki, M. Noguchi, and
Y. Katsu, “Dot pattern generation technique using molecular dynam-
ics,” J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 20, 248–255 2003.
14. T. Idé, H. Mizuta, H. Numata, Y. Taira, M. Suzuki, M. Noguchi, and
Y. Katsu, “A novel dot-pattern generation to improve luminance uni-
formity of LCD backlight,” J. Soc. Inf. Disp. 11, 659–665 2003.
15. C. S. Lin, W. Z. Wu, Y. L. Lay, and M. W. Chang, “A digital image-
based measurement system for a LCD backlight module,” Opt. Laser
Technol. 33, 499–505 2001.
16. G. D. Kim, H. J. Kang, S. H. Ahn, C. K. Song, C. I. Back, and C. S.
Lee, “Laser-marking process for liquid-crystal display light guide
panel,” Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng., Part B 2197, 565–569 2005.
17. T. Kima, S. Parkb, H. Oha, and Y. Shin, “Analysis of the laser pat-
terning inside light guide panel,” Opt. Laser Technol. 397, 1437–
1442 2007.
18. J. M. Haile, Molecular Dynamics Simulation: Elementary Methods,
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York 1992.
Chuan Chen is a lecturer in the Department
of Information Management, Meiho Institute
of Technology, Taiwan. He received his
master’s degree in computer science from
University of Massachusetts Lowell in 1992
and his PhD degree frpm Cheng-Kung Uni-
versity, Taiwan in 2009. His research is fo-
cused on molecular dynamics MD parallel
computing. He is also interested in backlight
illumination design.
Jee-Gong Chang received his master’s de-
gree and PhD degree in mechanical engi-
neering from National Cheng-Kung Univer-
sity, Taiwan, in 1991 and 1997, respectively.
He has led the Electro-Optical Team of the
National Center for High-Performance Com-
puting since 2002. His research focus is on
dot and microstructure design on backlight
modules.
Yu-Bin Fang received a master’s degree in
engineering science from National Cheng-
Kung University, Taiwan, in 2004. After
graduating, he become an assistant re-
searcher at the National Center for High-
Performance Computing, Taiwan, where he
studied the illumination system of flat panel
displays and other illumination devices de-
sign.
Jin-Yuan Hsieh received BS and MS de-
grees in mechanical engineering from Na-
tional Cheng-Kung University in 1983 and
1988 and a PhD degree in mechanical en-
gineering from Chung Yuan University in
1995. He jointed Ming Hsin University of
Science and Technology in 1999 and be-
came a professor in 2004. His research in-
terest focuses on applied physics.
Chi-Chuan Hwang is a professor in the De-
partment of Engineering Science, National
Cheng-King University NCKU, Taiwan. He
received his master’s degree and PhD de-
gree in mechanical engineering from NCKU
in 1985 and 1988, respectively. His re-
search focus is on nanotechnology using
the MD simulation method, and he has pub-
lished more than one hundred papers in this
field.
Chen et al.: Use of molecular dynamics method for dot pattern design of a thin light guide in an LED backlight
Optical Engineering October 2009/Vol. 4810104002-8
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 03 Nov 2009 to 140.116.155.8. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
1260 J.-G. Chang et al. / Computer Physics Communications 180 (2009) 1259–1270
scheme into the subsequent optical design phase. Although MD has
recently been widely used to study nanoscience and nanotechnol-
ogy [19–21], there are still a number of necessary developments
in MD numerical techniques to meet the needs of the subsequent
optical design phase. The current proposed method of generating
the dot positions by a low-discrepancy sequence and using the MD
force regulation to adjust the dot position is not suﬃcient [16–18].
Chang et al. [11,13,14] developed an MD dot generation scheme
and successfully integrated the MD scheme into the optical design
phase. Thus, the MD dot generation scheme has great ﬂexibility
that allows the change of the dot density adjustment according
to the feedback of the luminance result of the optical design. The
ﬂexible features of their scheme are the cell division technique
which, when accompanied by with the variable r-cut technique,
can allow the adjustment of dot density in the divided sub-domain
or cells. However, the scheme did not generally consider the mi-
crostructure generation which allows the change of microstructure
aspect ratio and variation of the microstructure orientation. Thus,
the generation scheme only applies to the microstructure arrange-
ment of aspect ratio 1, i.e., for dot or diamond shapes. Speciﬁcally
speaking, this is due to the fact that the MD force model only con-
siders the repulsive force acting isotropically on the neighboring
atom.
The objective of this study is to develop a microstructure dis-
tribution generation scheme based on the generalized MD force
model which can generate microstructures with different aspect
ratios and different microstructure orientations in a single design
for use in the light guide. Furthermore, this generation scheme
can be very easily combined with the subsequent optical design
to optimize microstructure distribution. The performance of this
generation scheme, as well as a practical example combining this
scheme with the optical design, is shown and discussed.
2. Mathematics formulation
2.1. Motion equation
The mass center of the microstructure can be considered as an
atom and its motion obeys Newton’s second law, similar to the
usual treatment in the MD method [11,13,14],
m
d2ri
dt2
+ cd dridt =
n∑
j
fi j(ri j), (1)
where ri is the position of the ith atom; m is the atom mass; cd
is the damping term; fi j is the force exerted on atom i by neigh-
boring atom j; n is the total number of neighboring atoms around
atom i; and ri j = |ri − r j |, with the ﬁnal expression fi j(ri j) being
fi j(ri j) = ri j
ri j
e−(ri jckl), (2)
where ri j = |ri j|; ckl is the force control parameter, and subscripts
k and l are the cell division row and column numbers, as shown in
Fig. 1(a). It is noted that in Fig. 1(a), the original domain is divided
into several sub-domains called cells. In these cells, every force
parameter, ckl , is different in order to achieve the requirements
of the variations in the microstructure density and microstructure
orientation, as introduced in following sections.
2.2. Generalized force model
The force control parameter, ckl , can be further deﬁned as,
ckl = − ln frercut_e,kl (3)
where fre is the residual force at the r-cut distance in each cell kl.
It is noted that fre tends toward zero when ri j is larger than or
equal to the r-cut distance, rcut_e,kl . Inspecting this together with
Eqs. (2) and (3), it can be easily seen that if the r-cut distance,
rcut_e,kl , is independent of the angle between atoms j and atom i,
the force ﬁeld is effective in a circle within an area with a radius of
rcut_e,kl , namely the isotropic force ﬁeld. In the following section,
we generalize the form of ckl to include the dependency of the
angle, with the force ﬁeld effectively in an elliptical shape.
2.2.1. Elliptical force ﬁeld
In order to generalize the force ﬁeld into an elliptical shape,
two coordinate systems are systematically introduced, as shown
in Fig. 2, which shows the neighboring atom j exerting force on
atom i. It is clear that rcut_e,kl , i.e., the distance between (xe, ye)
and (x j, y j), is dependent on the angle θ , which is subtended by
the line connecting atom j, (x j, y j), and atom i, (xi, yi), and the x
axis. In x, y and x′, y′ coordinate systems, there are two relation-
ships that are satisﬁed, which are
θ ′ = θ − Θkl, (4)
where θ = tan−1( yi−y jxi−x j ) and Θkl is the rotation angle between
two coordinate systems, and the following Eq. (5),[
x′
y′
]
=
[
cosΘkl sinΘkl
− sinΘkl cosΘkl
]
·
[
x− x j
y − y j
]
(5)
to deﬁne the coordinate transformation between x, y and x′ , y′ .
Instead of ﬁnding the xe and ye , which are located on the cir-
cumference of the ellipse, by using the x, y coordinate, it is more
convenient to employ the ellipse equation expression using the x′ ,
y′ coordinate,
x′2
r2cut_x,kl
+ y
′2
r2cut_y,kl
= 1. (6)
Similarly, xi and yi , see Fig. 2, can be expressed by using the x′ , y′
coordinate system as,
x′i = cosΘ · (xi − x j) + sinΘ · (yi − y j),
y′i = − sinΘ · (xi − x j) + cosΘ · (yi − y j). (7)
From Fig. 2, it can be easily seen that the x′e and y′e coordinates
are the intersection of the line connecting the ellipse origin (0,0)
and (x′i, y
′
i), and of the ellipse equation represented in Eq. (6).
These two equations are summarized as follows:⎧⎪⎨
⎪⎩
x′2
r2cut_x,kl
+ y′2
r2cut_y,kl
= 1,
y′ = y′i
x′i
· x′,
(8)
x′e and y′e are the solution of Eq. (8), and can be found as,
x′e = ±
√√√√ r2cut_x,kl · r2cut_y,kl · x′2i
r2cut_y,kl · x′2i + r2cut_x,kl · y′2i
,
y′e = ±
√√√√ r2cut_x,kl · r2cut_y,kl · y′2i
r2cut_y,kl · x′2i + r2cut_x,kl · y′2i
(9)
and ﬁnally, the rcut_e,kl can be found as,
rcut_e,kl =
√
x′2e + y′2e =
√√√√ r2cut_x,kl · r2cut_y,kl · (x′2i + y′2i )
r2cut_y,kl · x′2i + r2cut_x,kl · y′2i
(10)
and
ri j =
√
(xi − x j)2 + (yi − y j)2. (11)
Finally, note that the rotation angle, Θkl , can be speciﬁed dif-
ferently in different cells so as to achieve a speciﬁc microstructure
distribution and orientation.
1262 J.-G. Chang et al. / Computer Physics Communications 180 (2009) 1259–1270
Fig. 2. Generalized force model and coordinate system.
half lengths of the microstructure along long and short edges in
the cell, respectively; s f is the shape factor (if microstructure is an
ellipse s f = π , if is a rectangle s f = 4). Thus, the total area of the
microstructure is equal to mkl times the individual microstructure
area, s f rmic_l,klrmic_s,kl .
As stated previously, every atom has an area in which its force
ﬁeld affects any another atom lying with in this effective area,
known as the effective area, as shown as the ellipse in Fig. 2. Thus,
if the atom is not acting on other atoms, which means the effec-
tive area of every atom is not overlapping with any other, then
the effective area of every atom is smallest, and is known as the
minimum effective area, i.e.,
Aeff_min,kl = Acellmkl (= πrcut_x,klrcut_y,kl). (13)
The additional parameter of the longitudinal/latitudinal (long
axis/short axis) ratio of the ellipse axes is deﬁned as,
ellkl = rcut_y,klrcut_x,kl . (14)
Substituting the above Eq. (14) into Eq. (13), the rcut_x,kl and
rcut_y,kl can be obtained as,
rcut_x,kl = am
√
Acell
mkl · π · ellkl and rcut_y,kl = am
√
Acell · ellkl
mkl · π ,
(15)
where am is a multiplier usually larger than 1 which is used to en-
sure that every atom is interactive with each other. Together with
Eqs. (15), (12) and (10), it can be easily seen that the rcut_e,kl will
be smaller when the microstructure density becomes larger. Con-
versely, the rcut_e,kl will be larger when the microstructure density
becomes smaller, as shown in Fig. 1(b).
Finally, it can be noted that the ratio of the ellipse axes, ellkl ,
can vary in different cells in order to construct microstructure dis-
tributions with different aspect ratios. Note that though the force
ﬁeld is an elliptical shape, the microstructure itself may not be el-
liptical, but might instead be rectangular or in another curvilinear
rectangle shape constructed by the arc.
2.2.3. Cell boundary treatment
As stated previously, the microstructure orientation controlled
by the rotation angle,Θkl , and the aspect ratio of the microstruc-
ture controlled by ratio of the ellipse axes, ellkl , might vary be-
tween different cells. This causes changes in the shape and size
of the force ﬁeld in two adjacent cells. This variation will cause a
dramatic change in the microstructure distribution across the cell
boundary. Due to the fact that the resultant effect of these two
parameters is reﬂected in the force parameter, we utilize the geo-
metric mean of the two force parameters of the two adjacent cells
when there is discontinuity in the force parameter. As in the pre-
vious study [11,14], the reﬂective boundary is employed in the cell
boundary treatment. This reﬂective boundary treatment can avoid
microstructure movement from the high density cell to the low
density cell and allows the precise control of the microstructure
density in the cell, as shown in the bottom of Fig. 1(b).
2.2.4. Optical optimization
The simple proportional law of illuminance to microstructure
density is used in the optical optimization, which is similar to
our previous study [11]. In the previously study, we showed that
the equal illuminance condition is equivalent to the equal lumi-
nance condition, when the uniformity requirement is observed
by a 9-point luminance measurement at zero degree angle. In
the optimization procedure, the illuminance results are calculated
for the same cells areas divided by the generation scheme of
the microstructure. Then, the illuminance results are fed back
into the generation scheme to change the microstructure den-
sity of the cells. The generation scheme provided the add-on and
remove-from techniques, similar to the previous study [11]. The
microstructure arrangements or density adjustment was only per-
formed at those cells which needed to be changed according to
the illuminance results. These two procedures continue until the
equal-illuminance condition is reached.
The proportional law assumes the illuminance (or luminous
ﬂux) redirected outward in a cell from the base of the light guide
is proportional to its microstructure density (or the number of mi-
crostructures) in a cell. That is,
Ekl = Dkl · Acells f · rmic_l,kl · rmic_s,kl · Emic or Ekl =mkl · Emic, (16)
where Emic is the illuminance provided by each microstructure.
The average illuminance can be obtained after all cells kl have been
calculated, as
Eav =
∑n′,m′
k,l=1 Ekl
n′ ·m′ . (17)
The increment of the microstructure density can be obtained if in-
dividual Ekl is changed to Eav; the increment is then derived as
Dkl = s f · rmic_l,kl · rmic_s,klAcell ·
Eav − Ekl
Emic
= Dkl
(
Eav
Ekl
− 1
)
. (18)
Finally, the updated microstructure density is the original mi-
crostructure density, Dkl , plus the increment, Dkl , times an in-
crement factor, α, i.e.,
D¯kl = Dkl + αDkl = Dkl + αDkl
(
Eav
Ekl
− 1
)
(19)
or its equivalent update of the number of the microstructures in a
cell,
m¯kl =mkl + αmkl =mkl + αmkl
(
Eav
Ekl
− 1
)
. (20)
1264 J.-G. Chang et al. / Computer Physics Communications 180 (2009) 1259–1270
Table 1
Maximum ﬁlling density of the microstructure at different microstructure sizes and
aspect ratios.
Filling density
Aspect ratio 1 2 3 4 5
Length along short edge
50 μm 0.50 0.50 0.38 0.30 0.25
20 μm 0.54 0.52 0.39 0.32 0.30
cases. It can be seen that the MD force model proposed herein
has a stronger repulsive force in one direction than in the other
direction, allowing the microstructures of different aspect ratios
to uniformly ﬁll the cells. In these three cases, the distributions
also represent the maximum ﬁlling density, which satisﬁes a non-
overlapping condition, for those three aspect ratios. The number of
the microstructures, or microstructure density, becomes less as the
aspect ratio increases. Table 1 shows maximum ﬁlling density for
different aspect ratios of the rectangular-shaped microstructures,
equal in proportion, but with two different shorter edges of 50
and 20 μm. For the case of the 50 μm short edge microstructure,
the maximum ﬁlling density is about 0.50 when the aspect ratio
is smaller than 2 and decreases to only 0.25 when the aspect ratio
is increased to 5. The achievable maximum ﬁlling density is higher
for the smaller size of the microstructure, with the short edge of
20 μm. The difference in density at the same aspect ratio is not
signiﬁcant; however, the increasing percentage is moderately, es-
pecially for the higher aspect ratio. For an aspect ratio of 5, for
example, the ﬁlling ratio of the short edge of 20 μm is about 20%
higher than that of 50 μm.
Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) show the microstructures of different orien-
tations for the aspect ratios of 2 and 3, respectively. In Fig. 4(a),
the orientation of the microstructure changes from Θ = +60◦
of the cell (located at the upper left cell) to Θ = −90◦ (for the
cell located at the bottom right). From left to right, each adjacent
cell increases the rotation angle, Θ , by 10◦ in the clockwise di-
rection, continuing on the next row down for the entire grid. In
Fig. 4(b), the rotation angle Θ alternates from −60◦ to +60◦
diagonally by column direction. The microstructure densities of
Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) are kept as the same as in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b)—
at their maximum density. Keeping the maximum microstructure
density also tests the inﬂuence of microstructure orientation on
the maximum ﬁlling density of the microstructure. In addition, the
non-overlapping condition at the boundary of two adjacent cells
is also tested in these two cases. In Fig. 4(a), the angle difference
of the microstructure orientation of the two adjacent cells in the
same row is only 10◦; however, the angle difference of the two
adjacent cells in the same column is 40◦ . Close inspection at the
boundary located at two adjacent cells in both the row and column
directions reveals that there is no overlapping of the microstruc-
tures in adjacent cells. In Fig. 4(b), the angle difference is 120◦
between two adjacent cells located in the same row. Close inspec-
tion made on the boundary located between two adjacent cells in
the same row also reveals no over-lapping. This illustrates that the
inﬂuence of the microstructure orientation is insigniﬁcant on the
maximum ﬁlling density of the microstructure and that the bound-
ary treatment in this scheme fulﬁlls the non-overlapping condition.
The microstructure distribution pattern for each row in Fig. 4(b)
is arranged in a wave-like distribution, while the pattern in
Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) can be arranged in a concentric-like distribution
if the microstructure orientations are adjusted at varying degrees
in the cells located in the off-diagonal direction (that is, off a di-
agonal line bisecting the grid at a direction perpendicular to the
microstructure orientation direction, giving the microstructures of
the whole grid an arced shape radiating outward from the bottom
left corner, as in Fig. 8). The former wave-like distribution might
suitable for locating two LEDs, one at the one quarter and the
other one at three quarters of the top edge position, while the lat-
ter concentric distribution might suitable for locating one LED at
the bottom left corner. Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) simply test the arrange-
ment ability of the microstructure orientation generation scheme
developed herein. Usually, the change of microstructure orientation
in the actual backlight cannot be too dramatic, otherwise, bright
or dark zones may appear at those regions where the orientation
changes dramatically, which will fail to fulﬁll the uniformity re-
quirement. Finally, Fig. 4(c) shows a more practical example of the
microstructure distribution for a 1.8′′ light guide with three LEDs
located at the left side of the light guide where the microstructure
is absent. The 1.8′′ of the light guide is divided into 73 × 60 cells
and a total of 40,702 rectangular microstructures. The aspect ratio
of the microstructures is 5, i.e., 20 μm × 100 μm, and in that dis-
tribution, the alignments of the longer axes of the microstructures
form concentric circles of decreasing curvature with their origin
at each LED’s center. At the regions far from an LED, these circles
gradually ﬂatten, i.e., the curvature of the circle become larger, as
shown by the dashed lines in the ﬁgure. The concentric distribu-
tion relative to the LED can conduct more light into the region
between LEDs, which is helpful in eliminating the light and dark
bands between the LEDs.
3.2. Non-uniform distribution
Figs. 5(a) and 5(b) show the non-uniform microstructure dis-
tribution for different aspect ratios of 2 and 3, respectively, and
Fig. 5(c) shows a similar distribution, but for a hybrid aspect ratio
of 1 for the inner cells and of 5 for the outer cells. In Fig. 5(a), the
microstructure density of the inner region is 0.5 and the outer re-
gion is 0.1. Thus, the density variation across the cell boundary can
reach as high as 5:1. In fact, the density variation can reach higher
than 5:1 if the dot density of the outer region is decreased. Gener-
ally, the diﬃculty in reaching a higher density variation lies in how
high the density of the inner region (speciﬁcally speaking, a cell)
can reach. As the aspect ratio increases to 2, as seen in Fig. 5(b),
while keeping the microstructure density at the outer region at 0.1,
and increasing the microstructure density at the inner region un-
til the overlapping condition possibly fails, the maximum density
variation obtained becomes 4:1, less than that of aspect ratio 1.
This is because as the aspect ratio increases, the maximum ﬁlling
ratio also decreases, as stated in the previous section in Table 1.
To overcome this diﬃculty and reach a higher microstructure
density variation when the aspect ratio increases, a hybrid mi-
crostructure distribution with different aspect ratios is employed in
one analyzed domain as shown in Fig. 5(c). It can be seen for a hy-
brid microstructure with an inner and outer aspect ratio of 1 and
5, respectively, that the density variation can reach as high as 5:1
when the microstructure density at the outer region is also kept
at 0.1. From the results of Table 1, the maximum microstructure
density variation can be estimated as 2.5:1 if the same microstruc-
ture aspect ratio of 5 is employed. Using a smaller aspect ratio of
1 in the inner region, the microstructure density variation can be
2 times larger than that of using an aspect ratio of 5 in the inner
region, as in Fig. 3(c).
Generally, this microstructure distribution generation scheme
can consider changing both the variables of microstructure orien-
tation and aspect ratio simultaneously in different cells. However,
one single size of microstructure used for the pattern design is
likely a good choice when considering variations in manufacturing
quality and the possible variations in the shape of microstructures
of different aspect ratios which are employed in one pattern de-
sign. For example, to produce the microstructure by the semicon-
ductor manufacturing process, it is diﬃcult to control whether or
not all the different sizes of the microstructure can yield the same
shape during the etching process [22]. Usually, in the etching pro-
1266 J.-G. Chang et al. / Computer Physics Communications 180 (2009) 1259–1270
(a) (b)
(c)
Fig. 5. Non-uniform microstructure distribution at inner region with higher density, (a) Θ = 0◦ and aspect ratio equal to 2; (b) Θ = 45◦ and aspect ratio equal to 3;
(c) Θ = 45◦ and a hybrid aspect ratio of inner equal to 1 and outer equal to 5.
cess, the depth becomes shallower when the microstructure aspect
ratio becomes larger. Thus, the shape of all the microstructures will
not maintain identical aspect ratios in depth. This would introduce
another variable factor in the optical design phase. In the following
section, the distribution of one single size of the microstructure is,
thus, used for the pattern design of a 1 LED backlight; however,
the microstructure orientation still variable.
3.3. LED backlight design
A 1.5 inch edge-lit backlight with one LED located at the bot-
tom left corner is used as a practical example to illustrate the
validity of the present microstructure generation scheme com-
bined with optical optimization. LightTools [23] optical software
was used to do the illuminance analysis, the ray tracing func-
tion of which can be invoked by Visual Basic language combined
with a generation scheme written in Fortran. The whole domain
is divided into 50×60 cells, with a microstructure with a base
of 20 μm in width ×100 μm in length, i.e., aspect ratio = 5,
and a 10 μm depth. The shape of the microstructure is semi-
tubular shape, as seen in the inset Fig. 6. Initially, 58,726 mi-
crostructures were setup in the calculation. The microstructure
orientation is tangential to the concentric circles, with the bot-
tom left corner as its center. At the inlet region, v-cut struc-
1268 J.-G. Chang et al. / Computer Physics Communications 180 (2009) 1259–1270
(a)
(b)
Fig. 7. (a) Microstructure density and illuminance variation along the diagonal from LED light source to opposite corner during 1st, 4th and last (9th) iteration; (b) the related
microstructure density and illuminance contours, 1st iteration at left chart column, 4th iteration at middle chart column and 9th iteration at right chart column.
to produce a repulsive force ﬁeld of an elliptical shape that
can repulse the atom with different clearances in two ellipse
axes directions. This generalized force ﬁeld is accompanied by a
cell technique allowing for changes in the speciﬁcations of the
microstructure aspect ratio, microstructure orientation, and mi-
crostructure density in each cell, which allows for much ﬂex-
ibility in the design of the microstructure distribution. In ad-
dition, the scheme is very easy to integrate into the optical
design and to optimize microstructure distribution in order to
fulﬁll the equal luminance condition. The validity test shows
that the generation scheme satisﬁes the requirements of non-
overlapping and smoothing distribution at the cell boundary, es-
pecially when there is a dramatic change in microstructure aspect
ratios and microstructure orientations at the boundary of two
adjacent cells. Final optical optimization of the microstructure dis-
tribution for a practical application of the 1 LED backlight shows
the proposed generation scheme as well as the optimization law
works well for the microstructure distribution with orientation
change.
1270 J.-G. Chang et al. / Computer Physics Communications 180 (2009) 1259–1270
[20] C.C. Hwang, J.G. Chang, G.J. Huang, S.H. Huang, Investigation of cluster size
and cluster incident energy effect on ﬁlm surface roughness for ionized cluster
beam deposition, J. Appl. Phys. 92 (2002) 5904–5912.
[21] H.C. Lin, J.G. Chang, S.P. Ju, C.C. Hwang, A general consideration of incident im-
pact energy accumulation in molecular dynamics thin ﬁlm simulation—a new
approach using thermal control layer marching algorithms, Proceedings of the
Royal Society A—Mathematical Physical and Engineering Sciences 461 (2005)
3977–3998.
[22] A. Elshabini-Riad, F.D. Barlow, Thin Film Technology Handbook, McGraw-Hill
Inc., 1997.
[23] LightTools, Optical Design Tools for Backlight Displays, Optical Research Asso-
ciates, 2005.
 【光學工程  第一一二期 99.9】 
 
64
size display, it is transcendental to input the huge data for each cell manually for the 
generation of a specific dot distribution. Thus, we develop the preprocessor to generate the 
cell data by using VBA language provided by Excel, which can be determined by 
graphically interactive way. That makes the dot generation more easily and effectively.  
Lfzxpse; light guide, molecular dynamics, random dot distribution, optimal optical design!
݈֏!
導光板的光學設計之程序，大概可以分成
兩個步驟，第一個步驟為網點佈點；即依據所
設定之網點分佈，排列出所要的網點分佈。當
網點的佈置完成後，即將進入第二個，將網點
代入光學軟體中做運算，並得到光學計算所得
到的輝度(或照度)，然後判斷是否達到輝度均
勻之要求，若無，則回到步驟一，依據所得輝
度之結果修正導光板網點的密度分佈，再代到
步驟二，持續此步驟直到網點的分佈達到光學
上均勻性的要求。由此二步驟可知，ㄧ個好的
佈點程式，應該具備，可依據設計者給定的密
度分佈，此密度分佈是由光學設計回饋而得，
而做局部或指定區域的密度修正。此外，對亂
數佈點之程式而言，修正後之亂數分佈，還必
須是均勻的分佈，不可看見局部修正後所出現
交界區域之排列不連續之現象。一般而言，亂
數佈點的難度是比規則佈點[1]來的高，主要
的困難在於，亂數排列的計算法則須符合，雖
然是亂數的排列，還需要能夠被根據給定的密
度之達到均勻的排列。當然，亂數佈點雖然在
佈點的技術上具有較高的難度，但也有其優
點，如在光學的特性上，亂數佈點，具有消除
干涉條紋(Morié) [2-4]，這是因為亂數的分
佈，會破壞規則的干涉條紋發生。其次，也有
在製程的優點上，亂數佈點可提供後續修膜
(仁)的功能，即以在原先亂數網點的分佈在加
入新的網點，來快速調整導光板之網點密度以
符合均勻性的光學性質，這對一些以雷射在膜
仁直接雕刻網點的技術有十分大的助益。由此
可推理，若原來的排列，若為不均勻排列的亂
數排列，則在增加網點的同時，很難避免新加
入之網點與原先網點重複的情況發生。 
首先將分子動力學應用於導光板亂數佈
點為 Idé[2-4]，主要的概念為將網點當成原
子，利用原子相近相斥及遠離相吸之力作用法
則，來達到排列非重疊且分佈均勻之網點分
佈。但此作者主要應用分子動力學將事先排列
一 已 具 相 當 規 則 性 之 網 點 ， 稱 為 低 差 異
(low-discrepancy sequences)數列[2]，再利用分
子動力學之力作排斥力之微調，將網點均勻的
排斥至無重疊的位置，並達到均勻的目的。該
方法僅發揮分子動力學部份之功能，且未能達
到上述網點可隨給定之密度分佈而改變之功
能，且無法有效的結合後續之光學設計或網點
局部的修改。其次，該方法並無法針對一無序
之亂數作為起始條件，而達到最後排列均勻的
網點分佈。 
分子動力學方法已長久應用於奈米科學
(nano science)[4-6] 或 奈 米 科 技  (nano 
 【光學工程  第一一二期 99.9】 
 
66
生醫光電特刊 
)()( klijcr
ij
ij
ijij er
r −= rf                      (2) 
其中 ijijr r= ; klc  為力控制參數, 其下標 k 
和 l 為細胞網格之列(row)及欄(column)數，如
圖 1 所示. 在圖 1 中我們可以看到一個大的計
算域，被分割成許多細小方形的子區域，即稱
為細胞網格(cell division)，簡稱網格。在這些
不同的網格具有不同之力控制參數，且根據不
同網格的網點密度而改變，其確切的形式可表
示如下： 
kl,cut
re
kl r
fc ln−=                         (3) 
其中 ref  為在距離為 r-cut [10] 時之殘餘力
(residual force)，通常給定一個趨近 0 的數值。 
最後定義每個網格之網點密度如下： 
cell
kl
cell
dot
kl A
rm
A
AD
2⋅⋅== π                (4) 
其中 klm  為在 kl 網格之網點總數；而 r 是每
個網點的半徑；而 cellA  為網格的面積。  
為使位於網格內的原子 (網點)能跟其鄰
近的原子 (網點)能夠產生力的交換作用，所
以每個原子之作用面積，即以原子為中心並以
r-cut 所包圍之圓形面積，必須要有所重疊。我
們定義最小的作用面積為： 
kl
cell
klr m
A
A =min,_                        (5) 
由方程式(5)可以估算最小的 r-cut。但為保證
原子與原子的交互作用，所以 kl 網格的每個
原子以 r-cut 所圍成的面積，應大於(5)式之最
小作用面積。最後，由面積換算成之實際 r-cut 
應為：!
kl
cell
mklcut m
A
ar ⋅⋅= π,                   (6) 
其中 ma  是一個大於 1 的修正因子。從第(4)
式可知 2r
AD
m cellklkl π
⋅= ，並從第(6)式推論，
當網點的數量較多，也就網格的密度增加時，
r-cut 的距離就變的較小，以容納較多的網點於
網格內。相反的，當網格的密度減小時，r-cut
的距離就變的較大，所以只可容納較少的網點
於網格內。此因改變 r-cut 大小，而達到調控
網格之不同密度，故名為，可變 r-cut 方法，
如圖 2(a)。為了讓作用力的平滑的作用在位於
兩網格交界處之網點產生不同大小之 r-cut 作
用範圍，此時，力作用參數將以平均的方式來
取代各自原有之 r-cut 大小，以獲得平滑的網
點分佈。  
雖然，可變 r-cut 方法，可以依據不同網
格之網點密度，去調整不同的作用力範圍，而
達到不同網格密度之網點分佈。但在原子力之
作用調整過程時，很難保證網點不會跨越網格
邊界，而到另一個網格中，導致最後所獲得之
平衡後的網點分佈，是與原來所設定的分佈有
所不同。為此，我們在每個的網格之邊界，加
上反射邊界條件，如圖 2(a)，防止網點在力的
作用與調控期間，逃出原來的網格。 
 
VBA݈఍நᑕϡ඀ёฟ൴!
當網點佈點採用網格切割之方式，並控制
每個切割網格之網點密度，進而便於在後續之
光學設計的程序，找到最佳之網點分佈，達成
輝度均勻性之要求。但同時，所面臨之最大問
題，即是如何有效的產生切割網格之網點密度
 【光學工程  第一一二期 99.9】 
 
68
生醫光電特刊 
當網格的大小過小，但網點的大小過大時。當
然，這些功能都是以 VBA 語言所開發之功能。 
 
၁ּࡁտ 
以下即針對一個 2.4 吋導光板之網點設計
實例，說明 VBA 前處理程式及其後續之以分
子動力學網點產生器，產生排列均勻之亂數分
佈，及最後之光學最佳化得到最佳網點分佈情
形。2.4 吋導光板及 LED 相關之幾何尺寸及如
下，網點區(VA 區)，50.5mmX38mm，共使用
4 顆 LED，其 LED 出光面長 2mm，第一顆 LED
中心點距 VA 區之左上端點距離為 4.75mm(見
圖 8 之 相 對 位 置 ) 。 設 定 之 網 格 大 小 為
0.5mmX0.5mm ， 所 以 在 網 點 區 共 有
7676(=101X76)個網格。網點大小 30μm。LED
之光強度(intensty)為 1400 mcd 
 
VBA̝݈఍ந඀ё 
圖 3 為上述步驟 1 之執行畫面，圖中四個
按鈕，即是步驟 1 的四個功能鍵，這些。在執
行第一次運算時，除了需輸入一維控制點之參
數外，尚需輸入相關導光板及 LED 位置等其
他之幾何參數，如圖 4 之輸入視窗所示，其共
有 3 個輸入頁籤。在第一次輸入時，控制點的
輸入不必十分的精確，只需注意輸入之個數是
否符合實際的需求即可，之後控制點的位置可
以藉由滑鼠在，圖 3 右上側圖中之上下左右的
移動來控制其大小即可，並於移動後，所撰寫
之 VBA 程式會根據所移動的最後位置，算出
所有網格在 x-方向所對應之密度。在調整完
x-方向之一維分佈後，就可進行確認，其確認
鈕(Verify)在圖 3 中之第 4 個功能鍵，密度轉
換為網點個數後，所造成之誤差，若無誤後，
即可將資料複製至第二個頁面，(只需按下第 3
個功能鍵即可)，繼續進行步驟 2 中之 y-方向
之修正。 
圖 5 上述步驟 2 之執行畫面，圖中的五個
按鈕即是步驟 2 的五個功能鍵，由左到右，也
是執行步驟，其說明如下，第一步驟先選擇
y-方向(欄位)及 x-方向(列位)之控制點，在 y-
方向之控制點的選擇是以導光板之幾何對稱
點及介於對稱點間的其它選取點為主，在 x-
方向之控制點，僅需選擇部份的網格的點即
可，並不需要選擇所有網格做密度的調整，詳
見圖 6(a)為按下第一個功能鍵之對話窗。選擇
完控制點後，即可進入第二個功能，進行 y-
方向的調整，但只需針對部分欄位即可，詳見
圖 6(b)為按下第二個功能之對話窗。在第三個
步驟，即是針對所有網格的 x-方向做調整(也
可做 x-方向，部份網格的調整)，並以第二步
驟所調整過的欄位做為控制點。最後，第三個
步驟，即按下圖 5 中的第 5 個功能鍵，即是將
已調整完成，轉換成對應每個網格的網點個
數，並將結果呈現於 Excel 的第三個工作表
(worksheets)，如圖 7 所示，此時可利用 Excel
內定之功能，選擇有興趣的部份區域，做 3D
之區面圖，檢視最後結果，是否與原先預期之
結果相似，若無，則回去前述之步驟加以修
正。其中的一個輔助功能，即按下圖 5 中的第
4 個功能鍵，就是調整過後的網點密度，跟先
前第一步驟之一維網點密度做比較，並將更改
過後的密度以淺藍色之表格加以表示。 
 
 【光學工程  第一一二期 99.9】 
 
70
生醫光電特刊 
dot-pattern generation to improve luminance 
uniformity of LCD backlight,” J. Soc. Inf. 
Disp. 11, 659-665, (2003). 
4. T. Idé, H. Mizuta, Y. Taira, A. Nishikai, 
Discrete pattern, U.S. patent No. 6754419, 
(2004) 
5. M. H. Su, C. C. Hwang, J. G. Chang and S. 
H. Wang, “Microstructure evolution analysis 
in Co/Cu layers during the annealing 
process,” J. Appl. Phys. 93, 4566-4575 
(2003). 
6. J.G. Chang, C.C. Hwang, S.P. Ju and S.H. 
Huang, A molecular dynamics simulation 
investigation into the structure of fullerene 
C60 grown on a diamond substrate, Carbon 
42, 2609–2616, (2004). 
7. C. C. Hwang, J. G. Chang, J. M. Lu and H. 
C. Lin, “Dual Damascene Simulation for 
Ionized Physical Vapor Deposition Process: 
Investigation on Incident Energy and Via 
Geometry Effects,” J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 72, 
3151-5157 (2003). 
8. C.C. Hwang, G.J. Huang, S.P. Ju and J.G. 
Chang, Incident ion characteristics in 
ionized physical vapor deposition using 
molecular dynamics simulation, Surf. Sci. 
512, 135–150, (2002). 
9. Hong-Chang Lin, Jee-Gong Chang, 
Shin-Pon Ju and Chi-Chuan Hwang, A 
General Consideration of Incident Impact 
Energy Accumulation in Molecular 
Dynamics Thin Film Simulations: A New 
Approach Using Thermal Control Layer 
Marching Algorithms, Proceedings of the 
Royal Society of London. Series A, 
Mathematical, Physical and Engineering 
Sciences, 461 (2064), 3977-3998 (2005).  
10. J. G. Chang and C. T. Lee, “Random-dot 
pattern design of a light guide in an edge-lit 
backlight: integration of optical design and 
dot generation scheme by the 
molecular-dynamics method,” J. Opt. Soc. 
Am. A 24, 839-849, (2007) 
11. J. G. Chang, M. H. Su, C. T. Lee, and C. C. 
Hwang, "Generating random and 
non-overlapping dot patterns for LCD 
backlight light guides using molecular 
dynamics method," J. Appl. Phys. 98, 
114910, (2005). 
12. J. G. Chang, C. T. Lee, Y. B. Fang and C. C. 
Hwang, “Generation of random 
non-overlapping dot patterns for light guides 
using molecular dynamics simulations with 
variable r-cut and reflective boundary 
techniques,” Comput. Phys. Comm., 177, 
851-862, (2007). 
13. Richard Shepherd, Excel VBA Macro 
Programming, McGraw-Hill Osborne Media; 
1 edition, (2004) 
!
 【光學工程  第一一二期 99.9】 
 
72
生醫光電特刊 
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
ဦ 3 ેҖௐ 1Վូ̝൪ࢬĂд൪ࢬ̚۞Π˯ဦĂజᕇᏴ۞ᕇ(၆ᑕٺ AĂB᛼Ҝ۞ӈߏ׎ᇴࣃ)Ăӈࠎ
ଠטᕇĄ̚ม۞α࣎޷ต̈́ߏેҖ̝ΑਕᔣĂϤ˯Ҍ˭̶ҾߏĂ1.ௐ˘ѨેҖĂ2.୻ੵĂ3.޿֓(̏ᑢЪԆ
ல̝ඕڍҌௐ 2࣎̍үܑ)Ă4.ቁᄮĄ 
!
!
   
(a)                           (b)                            (c) 
ဦ 4 ༊޷˭ဦ(c)̚۞ௐ 1 ࣎Αਕᔣ΍ன۞၆ྖ඄ĂВѣ 3 ࣎ࢱចĂ̶ҾᏮˢ(a)ଠטᕇᏮˢ (b)შॾ
̈́შᕇ̝̂̈ྤफ़ (c)ˢЍ઎ LED̝ྤफ़ 
!
!
!
!
 【光學工程  第一一二期 99.9】 
 
74
生醫光電特刊 
!
 
ဦ 7 ેҖௐ 3Վូ̝൪ࢬĂဦ̝̚ѡࢬဦࠎˢЍ઎̝შᕇ̶ҶဦĂ׎̝̚੼प఍ࠎ׌ᔺ LED̚มຳ
૲۞შᕇ̶ҶĂ҃̋֐఍݋ߏҜٺ LED݈̝შᕇ̶Ҷ 
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
 【光學工程  第一一二期 99.9】 
 
76
生醫光電特刊 
!
!
LEDs
Reflector
Light guide plate
Housing
Black tape
!
!
ဦ 9 2.4ЦࡦЍሀ௡Ѝጯሀݭϯຍဦ 
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
 【光學工程  第一一二期 99.9】 
 
78
生醫光電特刊 
ဦ 10 Ѝጯ౵ָ̼̝(a)໰ޘ̶Ҷဦ (b)૜ޘ̶Ҷဦ 
!
!
!
張自恭 
઼छ੼ిშྮᄃࢍზ͕̚!
ࡁտࣶ!
changjg@nchc.org.tw 
方育斌 
઼छ੼ిშྮᄃࢍზ͕̚!
ӄநࡁտࣶ  
ybfang@nchc,org.tw 
盧建銘 
઼छ੼ిშྮᄃࢍზ͕̚!
ઘࡁտࣶ!
rockylu@nchc.org.tw  
李家紘 
઼ϲ̋̂̚ጯ፟࿪̍඀ր!
ࡁտϠ!
朱訓鵬 
઼ϲ̋̂̚ጯ፟࿪̍඀ր!
ି଱!
jushin-pon@mail.nsysu.edu.tw  
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月28日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
薄型化中尺寸LED背光模組之導光板非等向微結構佈點技術暨光學最佳化
整合環境開發
張自恭
97 -2221-E -492 -003 - 顯示技術
薄型化中尺寸LED 背光模組之導光板非等向微結構佈點技術暨光學最佳化整合
環境開發
財團法人國家實驗研究院 張自恭
本研究提出與光學設計整合之亂數網點之排列方法，並可應用於不同長寬比之
微結構排列，使背光模組經由本設計方法後，可快速達到輝度均勻之目的。本
方法是依據分子動力學方法，將網點視為原子，具有彼此排斥之特性，經由運
算而達到亂數均勻排列均勻之目的，進而將此亂數網點尺寸與位置輸入光學軟
體，並將設計的背光模組與網點結合，計算模擬背光模組所對應的輝度分佈。
此外，本亂數排列演算法是依據光學設計之需求而發展，可以在任意輝度不均
勻之區域，進行網點密度之修改，而達到輝度均勻之目的。
We propose a method for the pattern generation on the base of a light
guide for application in an edge-lit backlight. This method uses the
molecular dynamics method of a generalized force model as a
generation scheme to produce a microstructure with a pattern
combining a variable aspect ratio and a variable microstructure
orientation. By loading the size and position of the dot pattern into
the software for light design, we can obtain the distribution of
luminance of the backlight modulus by simulation. This generation
scheme can accommodate the needs of the subsequent optical design
phase, and allows for easier optical optimization to reach the equal
luminance condition.
其他專業、科學及技術服務業
1. 顯示器產業之導光板設計
2. 導光板之亂數佈點軟體
本技術有效利用了亂數網點排列與非等向為結構排列法開發了光學最佳化模組環境，
此模組化環境已開發相當完備，僅須藉由參數的修改調整，便可直接執行，因此技術
轉移性相當高，並提供光學設計者一個迅速達成光學最佳化的環境，因此可大量減少
設計時間與人力成本，對於公司的研發效率與效益上有相當大的提升。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
