 to reach a steady state, at which the cell yields its best 
performance. Therefore, a pretreatment or break-in 
period is needed to reach the full performance of the 
fuel cell. There are several reports on this matter, and 
the pretreatment methods generally depend on the type 
of fuel cell (such as PEMFC, DMFC, SOFC) and 
perhaps the developer’s preference. For example, Plug 
Power has developed method for enhancing cell 
performance by steaming or boiling the electrode for 
PEMFC performance improving [7]. Kho et al.[8] have 
found that conditioning of the cell in methanol results in 
a substantial increase in the performance of a DMFC. 
Although anode supported cell presents lots of benefits 
than that of cathode supported and electrolyte supported 
cell as shown previously, thicker anode structure might 
be obstructive for high power output due to longer 
transport path or less three phase boundary (TPB) for all 
species including oxygen ion, electron and H2 fuel. 
Therefore, anode pretreatment will be more critical for 
anpde supported SOFC due to 10 times anode thicker 
than that of PEMFC and DMFC. Traditionally, H2 is 
usually guided into anode section for NiO reduction to 
Ni under open circuit as pretreatment or break-in [9-11]. 
However, we found that the effect is less pronounced 
and limited especially under low temperature 
circumstances. Different pretreatment processes of the 
anode might lead to dissimilar anode structure and 
result in performance difference as have been found in 
low temperature fuel cell. The aim of this study was to 
obtain more information about the contribution of anode 
pretreatment to the electrochemical performance of 
anode-supported SOFC currently manufactured as 
standard cells of Leatech Co. in Taiwan. Two 
pretreatment procedures were executed in relation to 
application of a constant current or not. The reaction 
mechanisms of anode resulted from different 
pretreatment processes are proposed in order to 
understand how the pretreatments lead to variation of 
anode microstructure. 
 
2. Experimental 
 
2.1. Cell fabrication 
 
YSZ and NiO powders were used to prepare 
porous anode substrates. A mixture containing 
approximately 51 mass% NiO powder, 34 mass% 
commercial YSZ (Y0.1ZrO2) powder, and 15 mass% 
pore former (poly-methyl-metha-acrylate) was ball 
milled in EtOH solvent. After drying, the mixture was 
uniaxially pressed into squares of of 30 mm in length, 
then calcined at 900 ℃ for 2 h in air. Green film of the 
YSZ electrolyte was prepared onto the anode substrates 
from electrolyte slurry by a dip-coating method. The 
electrolyte film and anode substrate were co-fired at 
1400 ℃ for 2–5 hr in air with a controlled heating rate 
of 3℃/min. The electrolyte slurry was prepared by 
ball-milling YSZ powder with isopropanol and oil. 
After that, (La, Sr)MnO3 (LSM) powder, which was 
selected as a cathode material, was printed onto the 
YSZ electrolyte pellets, and they were fired at 1200℃. 
Fig. 1 shows a photograph of the anode-supported 
SOFC in this study. 
 
 
 
2.2. Anode pretreatment and cell testing  
 
Electrochemical measurements of the single cells 
were performed in a stainless steel test fixture placed 
inside the furnace. In order to obtain sufficient 
electronic contact between the cell and the electronic 
devices, Au meshs were used on both side of the anode 
and the cathode. Sealing of the gas compartment was 
performed by a YSZ fiber doped with YSZ powder 
(Z-Car Co., USA). At the beginning of the tests, an 
argon flow was introduced at the anode side and an air 
flow at the cathode side. The temperature was then 
slowly increased to the desired temperature for anode 
pretreatment. After reaching this temperature, the anode 
of the single cells was reduced by a stepwise 
replacement of argon by 10 vol% hydrogen. The total 
gas flows of hydrogen and air were both set at 150 
ml/min (standard temperature and pressure: STP) using 
mass flow controllers. Before cell testing, two methods 
were utilized for anode pretreatment. Fig. 1 (a) shows 
anode pretreatment via open circuit and Fig. 1 (b) 
shows anode pretreatment via closed circuit with 
constant current (50 mA). The biggest difference of 
these two pretreatment was to let the oxygen ion 
moving freely within anode structure via closed circuit. 
All electrochemical data obtained during the 
pretreatments were by DC methods using a 
current-control power supply and a computer-controlled 
data acquisition system. The current-voltage 
characteristics were measured with increasing current 
load by a sequential step change of 0.05V starting from 
1.0 V until the voltage dropped below 0.2 V.  
 
2.3. Microstructural characterization  
 
The morphology of the surfaces of the composite 
membranes was studied by means of a scanning 
electron microscope (SEM, model JSM-5600, Jeol Co., 
Japan) equipped with EDS. The sample surface was 
coated with gold powder under vacuum. 
 
3. Results and discussion 
 
3.1 Effect of pretreatments 
 
The SOFCs that run at high temperature do not 
yield any performances immediately upon start-up and 
they need pretreatment to attain stable and high 
performances. In our experiments, the anode structures 
were at an almost completely oxide state when they 
were fabricated. Therefore we first tested the effect of 
pretreatment by placing an anode supported cell in 
dilute H2 at 500℃  for 12 hrs and measuring its 
performance for every two hours. Fig. 3 compares the 
 critical, as these are the physical locations where the 
electrochemical reaction of hydrogen oxidation occurs. 
Pretreatment via close circuit presents a more prominent 
effect on the generation of TPB. Similar 
interpenetrating networks exist between 
LSM–YSZ-pores with TPB in the cathode interlayer, 
where the electrochemical reaction of oxygen reduction 
occurs. Recent work has shown a profound effect of 
TPB length in composite cathodes on cell performance 
[12]. 
 
3.3 Mechanism of anode reduction 
 
According to this study, the changes of the anode 
structure during pretreatment may be explained 
stepwise as shown in Fig. 8. For dilute H2 pretreatment 
under open circuit condition, NiO particles in the anode 
surface tend to reduce to Ni easily with the production 
of porosities (or oxygen vacancy, Vo) in the beginning 
as shown in Fig. 8 (a). However, the reduction becomes 
slower due to H2 penetrate through the dense NiO/YSZ 
meet higher difficulties. Therefore, only NiO exist in 
the few sub-layers closed to the anode surface is 
capable to reduce to Ni and come up with limited triple 
phase boundary in the anode structure. However, with 
the help of closed circuit, oxygen vacancies are 
transported from anode to cathode (opposite to that of 
oxygen ions, O2-) within the anode structure freely. 
Therefore, reduced Ni on the surface may be further 
transferred to NiO (Ni + O2-→NiO +2e-) while the NiO 
in the deeper interlayer may reduce to Ni (NiO → Ni 
+Vo+2e-). In other words, the oxygen vacancies moves 
from surface layer (Ln) to inner layer (Ln+1) as shown in 
Fig. 8(b).Therefore, a broader porosities generated 
within the anode resulting in an increase in the triple 
phase boundary length in the structure and an 
enhancement in the diffusivity of fuel gas and electrode 
conductivity. These multiple-positive reasons resulted 
in an enhancement of the cell performance.  
 
4. Conclusions                                                                                    
 
At this point of the study, performances are not 
optimized and low power density is available, due to 
dilute H2 used and lowers operation temperature in this 
study. However, the results confirm the feasibility of 
SOFC being activated via different pretreatment 
methods. The fact that pretreatment via closed circuit 
was more effective than that of traditional open circuit 
condition indicates that gradually deeper changes 
accompanying with both chemical reaction and 
electrochemical transfer in anodes resulted in an 
increase in the triple phase boundary length in the 
structure and an enhancement in the diffusivity of fuel 
gas and electrode conductivity, resulting in an 
enhancement in the performance of the anode. 
 
 
 
 
References 
 
[1] N.Q. Nihh, J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 76 (1993) 563-589. 
[2] C.C. Chen, M.M. Nasrallah, H.U. Anderson, Solid 
State Ionics 70–71 (1994) 101-108. 
[3] S. de Souza, S.J. Visco, L.C. De Jonghe, Solid State 
Ionics 98 (1997) 57-61. 
[4] J.-W. Kim, A.V. Virkar, K.-Z. Fung, K. Mehta, S.C. 
Singhal, J. Electrochem. Soc. 146 (1) (1999) 69-78. 
[5] H.Y. Lee, S.M. Oh, Solid State Ionics 90 (1996) 
133-140. 
[6] A.C. Muller, D. Herbstritt, E. Ivers-Tiffee, Solid 
State Ionics 152–153 (2002) 537-542. 
[7] Z. Qi and A. Kaufman, J. Power Sources 109(1) 
(2002) 227-229. 
[8] B. K. Kho, I. H. Oh, S. A. Hong, H. Y. Ha, 
Electrochimica Acta. 50 (2004) 781-785. 
[9] T. Fukuia, S. Oharaa, M. Naitoa, K. Nogi, J. Power 
Sources 110 (2002) 91-95. 
[10] Z. Cai, T. N. Lan, S. Wang, M. Dokiya, Solid State 
Ionics 152– 153 (2002) 583-590. 
[11] M. Cassidy, G. Lindsay, K. Kendall, J. Power 
Sources 61 (1996) 189-192. 
[12] J.H. Koh, Y.S. Yoo, J.W. Park, H.C. Lim, Solid 
State Ionics 149 (2002) 157-166. 
 
Table 1.  
Methods 
O/Ni+Zr 
(L1, 
surface 
layer) 
O/Ni+
Zr 
(L2) 
O/Ni+Zr 
(L3) 
O/Ni+Zr 
(L4) 
As 
prepared 1.85 — — — 
Open 
Circuit 1.66 1.76 1.80 1.79 
Closed 
Circuit 1.43 1.6 1.62 1.67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Fig.1 Photograph of anode supported cell in this study 
 
 
Fig.2 Anode pretreatment via (a) open circuit；(b) 
closed circuit 
