1行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
追蹤與操作真實環境中的動態似規則化材質
計畫編號 : NSC 95-2218-E-009-207
執行期限：95/11/01 ～ 96/07/31
主持人：林文杰 助理教授
執行機構：國立交通大學 資訊工程學系
本計畫之完整研究結果請詳見以下之期刊發表: Wen-Chieh Lin and Yanxi Liu, “A 
Lattice-based MRF Model for Dynamic Near-regular Texture Tracking,” IEEE Transactions
on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, Vol. 29, No. 5, 2007, pp. 777-792.
Abstract
This study addresses specific computational
challenges in modeling and tracking dynamic
near-regular textures (NRTs), including ambiguous
correspondences, occlusions, and drastic
illumination and appearance variations. We
proposed a lattice-based Markov-Random-Field
(MRF) model for dynamic NRTs in a 3D
spatiotemporal space. Our model consists of a
global lattice structure that characterizes the
topological constraint among multiple textons and
an image observation model that handles local
geometry and appearance variations. Based on the
proposed MRF model, we developed a tracking
algorithm that utilizes belief propagation and
particle filtering to effectively handle the special
challenges of the dynamic NRT tracking without
any assumption on the motion types or lighting
conditions. We compare the performance of our
method against existing tracking algorithms and
demonstrate its applications in video editing.
Keywords: Near-regular texture, visual tracking,
dynamic near-regular texture tracking, model-based
tracking, texture replacement, video editing.
1. Introduction
A near-regular texture (NRT) is a geometric and
photometric deformation from its regular origin—a
congruent wallpaper pattern formed by 2D
translations of a single tile. Dynamic NRTs are
NRTs under motion. Correspondingly, we define
the basic unit of a dynamic NRT texton, as a
geometrically and photometrically varying tile,
moving through a 3D spatiotemporal space.
Real-world examples of near-regular texture
are numerous, especially in man-made
environments, such as fabric patterns, decorated
surface of architectures, floor patterns, and
wallpapers. Effective computational algorithms to
handle NRTs, however, are scarce. Although
texture analysis and synthesis have been studied in
computer vision and computer graphics for years,
geometric and photometric regularity of NRT have
not been fully exploited in existing algorithms. Our
previous work on static NRTs analysis and
manipulation [1] is the first algorithmic treatment
aimed specifically to preserve the regularity and
randomness in real-world near regular textures. In
this project, we further exploit the properties of
dynamic NRTs to develop computational models
and algorithms for tracking and manipulating
dynamic NRTs.
(b) (c)
(a)
(d) (e)
Fig. 1. Challenges of dynamic NRT tracking: (a)(b)
ambiguous correspondences; (b)(c) occlusions; (d)
appearance and illumination variations. The texture
in (d) is a pattern seen through disturbed water and
(e) is a dynamic NRT formed by a crowd motion.
3visual tracking problems: deformable object
tracking, cloth motion capture, and multi-target
tracking. Image alignment is adopted in many
deformable object tracking algorithms where
different models are used to confine the
deformation space, such as PCA [19], finite element
mesh [20], or subdivision surface [21]. These
models are not appropriate for tracking textons on a
folded surface with occlusion as they assume the
surface to be tracked is smooth and non-folded.
Recently, Pilet et al. [22] proposed a real-time
non-rigid surface detection algorithm which tracks a
non-rigid surface by repeatedly detecting and
matching features in an image sequence. Features
are detected using a classifier trained on a modal
image. Feature matching between the input image
and modal image are performed through an
optimization process which minimizes the
correspondence error and non-smoothness. They do
not handle NRT tracking in which repeated patterns
introduce a serious feature correspondence
problem.
The goal of cloth motion capture is to capture
the 3D motion of cloth. Special calibrated
multi-camera systems [23-26], color-coded patterns
[24, 25] or controlled lighting [24] are required.
The special requirements on hardware and input
patterns are used to reduce the tracking difficulties
due to ambiguous feature correspondences or
occlusion problems. Scholz et al. [23] combines
optical flow with geometric constraints (distance,
curvature, contour) to track a synthetic motion of
textured cloth under a calibrated multi-camera
setting. Guskov [27] developed an algorithm that
can detect and track a black-white square pattern on
cloth. His algorithm does not work on general NRT
since only the image features of black-white square
pattern are used in the detection and image
alignment process. Our tracking algorithm can serve
as the front end of a cloth motion capture system
where no special purpose color-coded cloth pattern
or lighting and camera calibration are required.
Tracking textons of a dynamic NRT can also
be considered as a special case of multi-target
tracking in which there are varying degrees of
spatial constraints among different targets. The
main difference between NRT tracking and
multi-target tracking is that the topology among
targets remains invariant in NRT tracking.
Modeling the spatial relation among tracked targets
using an MRF has been applied to ant tracking [28],
sports player tracking [29] and hand tracking [30].
These algorithms may not track dynamic NRTs
effectively since topology regularity is not
explicitly modeled and utilized.
Existing algorithms for deformable object
tracking, cloth motion capture, or multi-target
tracking succeed in their respective domains, but
none of them deals with general NRT tracking
problem under various types of motion, viewed
through different media (water, air …) and 
occlusion conditions as treated in this project. By
adopting MRF and image alignment into a specially
designed, unified framework, our approach can
effectively track various types of dynamic NRTs
under different motion conditions.
3. Our Approach
NRT's unique properties create new computational
challenges for dynamic NRT tracking. Meanwhile,
they provide important and helpful tracking cues.
An effective computational model that respects and
exploits the properties of the NRT is the key for a
successful dynamic NRT tracking. In this study, we
have developed a lattice-based MRF model for
dynamic NRTs, a dynamic NRT tracking algorithm
and a dynamic NRT manipulation system as shown
in Fig. 3, 4, and 5 respectively.
3.1. Lattice-based Markov Random Field for
dynamic NRTs
We proposed a lattice-based MRF model that
integrates a high-level topological structure model
and a low-level registration-based texton geometry
and appearance model. Topology invariance and
geometry regularity are exploited in the lattice
structure model to resolve ambiguous
correspondences and occlusion problems.
Geometry and appearance regularity are used to
detect textons and deal with temporal variations.
The proposed model characterizes the lattice
topology, the geometry and appearance of
individual textons of a dynamic NRT.
The topology and geometry of an NRT can be
described by a quadrilateral lattice L [1] (Figure 3).
L is a graph of degree 4 connecting all textons of
an NRT. The degree-4 graph lattice topology
comes from crystallographic group theory that all
wallpaper patterns have a quadrilateral lattice
characterizing its fundamental generating
region[31-33]. Therefore, a pair of linearly
independent vectors is sufficient to represent the
quadrilateral lattice of a regular texture.
The lattice of a dynamic NRT functions as the
topological skeleton of a texture. When an NRT
5detection algorithm finds all textons in the first
frame based on a user-specified texton. All
detected textons are then geometrically aligned. We
call these aligned textons in the first frame texton
templates. A quadrilateral lattice is constructed by
connecting the centers of detected textons. In the
tracking stage, texton detection is performed at
each frame to include any additional texton
entering the scene and removing the ones leaving
the scene. We handle the texton tracking problem
through a statistical inference process consisting of
spatial inference and temporal tracking. The states
of a texton (position, shape, and visibility) are
sampled and its distribution is modeled by a
particle filter in the tracking process. In each frame,
a set of sampled states is drawn and a dynamic
model generates the predicted states for the next
frame. Belief propagation is then applied to these
predicted states to find the most likely lattice
configuration based on the lattice structure model
and image data. BP also provides the probability of
each texton state, which is used to refine the
approximation of the distribution of texton states
through particle filtering. The above process
iterates until the whole image sequence is tracked.
In addition, the texton template set is updated to
handle the variation of texton image intensities in
the tracking process.
Fig. 4. An overview of the proposed dynamic NRT
tracking algorithm.
3.3 Dynamic NRT manipulation system
An immediate benefit of tracking textons is that
a more precise appearance model of a dynamic
texture can be obtained. The appearance model
combined with the geometric model can be
used to generate dynamic textures in different
manners other than synthesis. Specifically,
dynamic NRT manipulation can be achieved by
manipulating the sequence of geometric and
lighting deformation fields (DFs) of a dynamic
texture. Two types of manipulations have been
addressed in this project: texture replacement
and video superimposition.
Fig. 5 shows an overview of the proposed
framework for dynamic NRT manipulation. We
can first apply the proposed tracking algorithm
to the track lattices of a dynamic texture. With
the tracked lattices that capture the temporal
information of the texture, we use an algorithm
proposed by Liu et al. [1] to compute geometric
and lighting deformation fields (DFs)
separately, which are essentially pixel-wise
mappings that define the geometric and
photometric variations of the NRT. Temporal
coherence is further addressed by smoothing
geometric and lighting DFs spatiotemporally.
This smoothing process is analogous to one of
the functions of human vision system in which
the velocity information is integrated
spatiotemporally to obtain unambiguous and
coherent perception of motion [34, 35]. The
smoothed geometric and lighting DFs can then
be applied to any texture to achieve realistic
and coherent video texture replacement. When
there is more than one NRT patch in an image
frame, spatiotemporal stitching is applied to
combine replacement results from different
patches.
Fig. 5. Overview of the proposed framework for
dynamic NRT manipulation.
4. Experimental Results
4.1 Tracking Dynamic NRTs without Occlusion
We first test our tracking algorithm on several
dynamic NRTs (Fig. 6) under different types of
motions and compare it against the robust optical
flow algorithm [4] and the Lucas-Kanade algorithm
[1], [28]. These two algorithms are chosen as
7preview. Fig. 9 demonstrates two applications in
dynamic texture replacement and video
superimposition. Texture replacement in photos
changes an NRT in an image without knowing the
scene geometry while preserving the geometric
deformations, and photometric realism, such as
shading and shadows.
(a) (b) (c) (d)
(e) (f) (g) (h)
Fig. 9. Dynamic NRT manipulation on a fabric
texture. (a) An input frame. (b) Tracked lattice. (c)
Extracted lighting. (d) Replacement result. (e) An
input frame. (f) Tracked lattice. (g) Extracted lighting.
(h) Superimposed text.
5. Conclusion
We proposed a lattice-based MRF model for
dynamic NRTs. Textons of a dynamic NRT are
treated as separate moving objects connected by a
topological constraint, while allowing individual
textons to vary flexibly in geometry and appearance.
Our lattice-based MRF model consists of a lattice
structure model that characterizes the topological
constraint of a dynamic NRT and a
registration-based image observation model that
handles the geometry and appearance variations of
individual textons. We treat dynamic NRT tracking
as a spatiotemporal inference problem using the
belief propagation and the particle filtering
algorithms. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our
algorithm on tracking dynamic NRTs under rapid
movements, motion blurring, folding, occlusion,
and illumination changes through different
mediums. In future study, we will allow the lattice
topology to adapt during a dynamic NRT tracking
process and evaluate its pros and cons.Apossible
direction is to adopt a dynamic Bayesian network
[31] to model a varying topology. We would also
like to extend our MRF to model the folding
topology and to combine a shape-from-texture
algorithm to capture 3D surface geometry, which
will further expand the applications of various types
of dynamic NRTs.
References
[1] Y. Liu, W.-C. Lin, and J. Hays, "Near-regular
texture analysis and manipulation," in ACM
SIGGRAPH, 2004, pp. 368-376.
[2] J. S. Yedidia, W. T. Freeman, and Y. Weiss,
"Understanding Belief Propagation and Its
Generalizations," in International Joint
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2001.
[3] J. Pearl, Probabilistic Reasoning in Intelligent
Systems: Networks of Plausible Inference:
Morgan Kaufmann, 1998.
[4] A. Doucet, N. D. Freitas, and N. Gordon,
Sequential Monte Carlo Methods in Practice:
Springer-Verlag, 2001.
[5] M. Isard and A. Blake, "CONDENSATION -
conditional density propagation for visual
tracking," Int. J. Comput. Vision, vol. 29, pp.
5-28, 1998.
[6] R. C. Nelson and R. Polana, "Qualitative
Recognition of Motion Using Temporal
Texture," CVGIP Image Understanding, vol. 56,
pp. 78-89, July 1992.
[7] L.-Y. Wei and M. Levoy, "Fast Texture
Synthesis Using Tree-Structured Vector
Quantization," in ACM SIGGRAPH, 2000, pp.
479-488.
[8] M. Szummer and R. W. Picard, "Temporal
Texture Modeling," in IEEE Int. Conf. On
Image Processing, 1996, pp. 823-826.
[9] Z. Bar-Joseph, R. El-Yaniv, D. Lischinski, and
M. Werman, "Texture Mixing and Texture
Movie Synthesis Using Statistical Learning,"
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and
Computer Graphics, vol. 7, pp. 120-135, 2001.
[10] V. Kwatra, A. Schödl, I. Essa, G. Turk, and A.
Bobick, "Graphcut Textures: Image and Video
Synthesis Using Graph Cuts," in ACM
SIGGRAPH, 2003, pp. 277-286.
[11] G. Doretto, A. Chiuso, Y. N. Wu, and S.
Soatto, "Dynamic Textures," International
Journal of Computer Vision, vol. 51, pp. 91-109,
2003.
[12] K. Bhat, S. Seitz, J. Hodgins, and P. Khosla,
"Flow-based video synthesis and editing," ACM
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 95-2218-E-009-207
計畫名稱 追蹤與操作真實環境中的動態似規則化材質
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
柯立偉
交通大學電機與控制工程學系博士生
會議時間地點 June 10 ~ June 14, 2007, 美國芝加哥
會議名稱
(中文) 第十三屆人類大腦映象研究組織年會
(英文) The 13th Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping (OHBM)
發表論文題目
(中文) 動態駕駛環境下動覺刺激對腦波反應的影響
(英文) EEG Responses of Kinesthetic Stimulation in a Dynamic Driving Simulator
一、參加會議經過
此次參與大腦映象研究組織年會除發表論文外，另一方面亦是為考察材質分析與合成在
人類視覺分析上的應用，特別是如何結合腦波分析技術與材質視覺刺激來增進對人類視覺的
了解。希望結合這些基礎的研究，改善現有的材質合成演算法。
2007 OHBM 會議期間為 6 月 10 日至 6 月 14 日，因此我在台灣 6 月 7 日下午搭長榮班機
到洛杉磯轉飛往聖地牙哥，先行參訪加州大學聖地牙哥分校之 Institute for Neural Computation
(INC)，INC 是數十年知名之神經科學研究機構，鍾子平教授，段正仁博士與黃瑞松博士等皆
是在 INC 裡的台灣學者，他們都在神經科學領域中有著多年研究經驗，同時他們也是要前往
芝加哥參與 OHBM 會議，因此隨後我們一行人便於 6 月 9 日從聖地牙哥飛往芝加哥參加
OHBM 會議。此次會議我們投稿了一篇論文發表時間在會議第三天(06/12)。由於 OHBM 會
議的訴求在於探討大腦功能所有相關研究，所以會議期間有教學課程和很多不同腦功能研究
的 Session 同時進行，教學課程有 Basic fMRI，Advanced fMRI，Advanced EEG/MEG，Cognitive
Neuroscience 和 Neuroanatomy 等多項，我參與了 Advanced EEG/MEG 課程，亦旁聽些許
Cognitive Neuroscience 課程。
第一天會議的主軸是主要是教學課程 (Educational Courses)。我參與了 Advanced
EEG/MEG 課程，主要介紹使用 EEG 和 MEG 等生理訊號量測工具來探討腦功能變化，教學
課程深入淺出，主要教傳統如何將大腦圖形定位找出相對應的腦區(Source Localization)，由
於不同人種的頭顱皆不相同，因此需精確地找出所對應的腦區才能將所發現的腦波變化加以
解釋，不置於誤導。大會邀請了在這方面有數十年研究經驗的學者來共同分享，有著多樣化
的分析工具，使我們與會受益良多。此外，我也在這教學課程中遇見交大資工系的陳永昇老
師夫婦，他們亦對此課程深感興趣，與他們相談甚歡。
