four feature 
sets. Two feature sets measure the displacement of 
the upper 
and lower body COG in the vertical and horizontal 
directions. 
The other two feature sets quantize the upper and 
lower body 
angular change rate. With these feature sets and a 
classification 
model, our proposed approach is able to recognize 
five different 
static postures including stand, laying, bend, sit 
and squat and 
two actions, walking and handwaving. The simulation 
results 
show that our proposed approach achieve 98.02% to 
80.20% 
recognition rates for various postures and actions in 
the KTH and 
ISIR databases. Our approach can achieve real-time 
recognition 
for video sequence and has lower computational 
complexity than 
other state-of-art algorithms. 
英文關鍵詞： posture  recognition,  action  analysis, center  of 
gravity 
 
 2 
machine interaction, surveillance systems, med-
ical data analysis and etc. With the popularity of 
smart televisions and handheld devices, low 
cost and real-time realization of human posture 
recognition become important. Many researches 
have been proposed for human posture and ac-
tion recognition. However, most of the pro-
posed approaches have high computational 
complexity. In this paper, we propose a low-cost 
real-time action recognition approach using on-
ly ﬁve center of gravity points (COG) and four 
feature sets. Two feature sets measure the dis-
placement of the upper and lower body COG in 
the vertical and horizontal directions. The other 
two feature sets quantize the upper and lower 
body angular change rate. With these feature 
sets and a classiﬁcation model, our proposed 
approach is able to recognize ﬁve different stat-
ic postures including stand, laying, bend, sit and 
squat and two actions, walking and handwaving. 
The simulation results show that our proposed 
approach achieve 98.02% to 80.20% recogni-
tion rates for various postures and actions in the 
KTH and ISIR databases. Our approach can 
achieve real-time recognition for video se-
quence and has lower computational complexity 
than other state-of-art algorithms. 
四、方法討論 
A LOW COST AND REAL-TIME HUMAN 
POSTURE RECOGNITION SYSTEM 
In order to reduce the computational complexity, 
we propose a centroid context based posture 
and action recognition approach using only ﬁve 
center of gravity points (COG) and four feature 
sets. Two feature sets measure the displacement 
of the upper and lower body COG in the verti-
cal and horizontal directions. For example, Fig. 
1 shows the variation of vertical height at ﬁve 
different postures. When a human being is in 
the stand posture, the vertical height value is the 
highest and the values of vertical height de-
crease in the other postures. The other two fea-
ture sets quantize the upper and lower body an-
gular change rate. For example, Fig. 2 shows 
the process of handwaving. When a person has 
the handwaving action, the upper body angular 
changes constantly. Fig. 3 shows the process of 
the walking action.  
 
When a human being is in the walking action, 
the lower body angular changes constantly. 
With the feature sets and a classiﬁcation model, 
our proposed approach is able to recognize ﬁve 
different static postures including stand, laying, 
  4 
    ,     ,      and     . Fig. 6 shows 
an example of the ﬁve computed COGs. 
 
(B) Deﬁnition of the Feature Ratio 
In this subsection, we extract three feature rati-
os R1, R2 and R3 respectively. At ﬁrst, we use 
    ,     , and      to construct an upper 
triangle then use COGo, COG3, and      to 
construct a lower triangle. From these two tri-
angles, we deﬁne three values   ,   , and H 
as follows. 
 
The    is the horizontal distance of the      
and     , and    is the horizontal distance 
of the      and     . The H is the Euclide-
an distance between the midpoint of      and 
     and the midpoint of      and     . 
According to these values, we deﬁne the three 
feature ratios   ,   ,   , as below. 
 
   is used to distinguish postures including the 
stand, sit, squat and laying.    is used to iden-
tify the bend posture. Fig. 6 shows an example 
of the body feature values deﬁnition. Fig. 7 
shows the postures distribution of different R1 
and    values and it shows that the stand, sit, 
squat, laying and bending can be differentiated 
from these two values. 
 
 
 
(C) Deﬁnition of the Angle Feature 
In this subsection, we present angle features to 
distinguish action postures of handwaving and 
walking. The upper      and      change 
positions for a human handwaving action. For a 
walking action, the lower      and      
change positions. Fig. 2 and Fig. 3 shows the 
process of handwaving and walking. Here we 
deﬁne two angle features    and    based on 
the law of cosines as below. We can ﬁnd    
  6 
stand posture as a reference for other postures.  
When the stand posture have the highest    
value and the    value changes depending on 
postures. At ﬁrst, we perform a recognition step 
for a static stand posture. If this stand posture 
persists static with TR seconds that    is 3 
here, then we compute the current R1 value for 
the stand position. Based on the computed    
value, we can deﬁne stand threshold    as fol-
lows. 
 
A human body has very large    and    
values and a small H value at the laying posture 
as shown in Fig. 1(e). We assign the laying pos-
ture threshold    is 0.5. Then we deﬁne an 
equation to calculate a threshold    to distin-
guish the sit and squat postures as follows. 
 
However, it is not robust enough to use only the 
   feature to distinguish the sit and squat pos-
tures since these two postures could have simi-
lar   . According to the features of these two 
postures, we use the    feature to distinguish 
these two postures. In this paper, we assign the 
squat threshold     as 0.8. In order to distin-
guish the bend posture, we use the    feature. 
The reason of using the    feature is beacuse 
the upper    is larger than    in the bend 
posture. Based on this feature, we assign the 
bend threshold    is 
 
 
. We adopt these fea-
tures and thresholds to model the recognition 
ﬂow. 
(B) Recognition Flow 
The recognition ﬂow is shown in Fig .10. The 
input is a 30 fps video and the frame size is 
484-by-272 in our proposed system. We com-
pute these features every 15 frames such that 
it computes the features two times in one se-
cond. At the beginning, the posture is in the un-
determined state until the ﬁrst stand posture is 
  8 
For the handwaving action, the upper part of body changes consistently and the lower part of 
 
body is almost static in the half of past 10 frame. 
The experiment results are shown as in Fig. 
11(g). If the postures are not walking and 
handwaving then we call this is at transition 
state. 
五、實驗結果 
To show the beneﬁts of the proposed approach, 
we perform experiments on publicly available 
databases for posture recognition to demon-
strate the efﬁciency of the proposed 
classiﬁcation algorithm and to validate the 
claims of previous sections. The computational 
complexity of the proposed approach and two 
other methods are also analyzed in this section. 
We evaluate our approach on the KTH database 
[7] and ISIR database [10]. We also adopt Hsieh 
et al [6]’s approach for comparison and this test 
includes 270 video sequences of 6 different pos-
tures.  
A. KTH Database 
The KTH human action dataset, originally cre-
ated by [7], consists of 600 videos (160 120) 
with 25 persons performing human action in 
four different scenarios: outdoors s1, outdoors 
with scale variation s2, outdoors with different 
clothes s3, and indoors s4. Due to the back-
ground limitation, we perform the experiments 
for the walking sequence here. Illustrative ex-
amples for walking actions are shown in Fig. 12 
and the result is shown in Fig. 13. From the re-
sults presented in Fig. 13, it shows that the pro-
posed method can recognize most walking se-
quences and a recognition rate of 96% is ob-
tained. 
B. ISIR Database 
A sequence database comprising eight actions is 
considered: crouch down, stand up, sit down, sit 
up, walk, bend down, get up from bending, and 
jump. Various viewpoints are acquired for each 
  10 
number of the test images for the squat postures 
is 165 and the correct recognized number is 162. 
The recognition rate is 98.2%. For the sit pos-
ture, we assign the    threshold value as 
2.8231 and     value and    value as 2.359 
and 0.5 respectively. The number of the test im-
ages of the sit posture is 112 and the correct 
recognized number is 102. The recognition rate 
is 91.07%. As for the bend posture, the    
threshold is assigned as 1.5. The number of the 
test images of the bend posture is 126 and the 
correct recognized number is 101. The recogni-
tion rate is 80.20%. The recognition rate results 
are shown in Fig. 15. 
The experimental results show that our pro-
posed method has good recognition rate at squat 
and sit postures. For the bend postures, we have 
lower recognition rate because the direction of 
bend is face to the camera. 
C. Our Database with other methods 
We conduct a series of experiments to evaluate 
the movement sequence recognition using the 
proposed model-based feature approach. We 
collect 270 movement that contains divided six 
  12 
equalization,” IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuit, 
vol. 40, no. 12, pp. 2633-2645, December 2005. 
[2] K. Ishii, H. Nosaka, M. Ida, K. Kurishima, S. 
Yamahata, T. Enoki, T. Shibata, and E. Sano, “4-bit 
multiplexer/demultiplexer chip set for 40-Gbit/s 
optical communication systems,” IEEE Transactions 
on Microwave Theory and Techniques, vol. 51, no. 
11, pp. 2181-2187, November 2003. 
[3] Y. Guo, Z. Zhang, W. Hu, and L. Yang, “CMOS 
multiplexer and demultiplexer for gigabit Ethernet,” 
in Proceedings IEEE International Conference on 
Communications, Circuits and Systems and West 
Sino Expositions, vol. 1, Chengdu, China, June 2002, 
pp. 819-823. 
[4] H.-D. Wohlmuth and D. Kehrer, “A low power 13-
Gb/s 2
7
 – 1 pseudo random bit sequence generator IC 
in 120 nm bulk CMOS,” in Symposium on Integrated 
Circuits and Systems Design. Pernambuco, Brasil: 
IEEE, September 2004, pp. 233–236. 
[5] Y. Guo, Z. Zhang, W. Hu, and  L. Yang, “CMOS 
multiplexer and demultiplexer for gigabit Ethernet,” 
IEEE International Conference on Communications, 
Circuits and Systems and West Sino Expositions, Vol. 
1, pp. 819-823, 2002. 
[6] Y. H. Hsu, M. H. Lu, P. L. Yang, F. T. Chen, Y. H. 
Li, M. S. Kao, C. H. Lin, C. T. Chiu, J. M. Wu, S. H. 
Hsu, and YarSun Hsu, “A 28Gbps 4×4 switch with 
low jitter SerDes using area-saving RF model in 
0.13μm CMOS technology,” IEEE International 
Symposium on Circuits and Systems, pp. 3086-3089, 
2008. 
[7] Y. H. Hsu, M. H. Lu, P. L. Yang, F. T. Chen, Y. H. 
Li, M. S. Kao, C. H. Lin, C. T. Chiu, J. M. Wu, S. H. 
Hsu, and YarSun Hsu, “A Quarter-Rate 
2.56/3.2Gbps 16/20:1 SERDES Interface in 0.18μm 
CMOS Technology,” accept by International 
Journal of Electrical Engineering. 
[8] P. Heydari and R. Mohanavelu, “Design of 
ultrahigh-speed low-voltage CMOS CML buffers 
and latches,” IEEE Trans. on Very Large Scale 
Integr. (VLSI) Syst., vol. 12, no. 10, pp. 1081–1093, 
Oct. 2004. 
[9] T. Otsuji, M. Yoneyama, K. Murata, and E. Sano, “A 
super-dynamic flip–flop circuit for broadband 
applications up to 24 Gbit/s utilizing production-
level 0.2-um GaAs MESFETS,” in IEEE Journal of 
Solid-state Circuits, Vol. 32, No. 9, September 1997. 
[10] M. G. Chen, “A half-tone frequency detector and 
digital circuit techniques for high-speed clock/data 
recovery,” Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. Southern CA, 
Los Angeles, CA, Dec. 1998. 
[11] Hung-Wen Lu, Chau-Chin Su, “A 5Gbps CMOS 
LVDS Transmitter with Multi-Phase Tree-Type 
Multiplexer”, 2004 IEEE Asia-Pacific Conference 
on Advanced System Integrated Circuits, 2004  
[12] A.L. Coban, M.H. Koroglu, K.A. Ahmed, “A 2.5-
3.125Gb/s Quad Transceiver with Second Order 
Analog DLL Based CDRs”, Custom Integrated 
Circuits Conference, 2004. 
[13] Jinwook Kim, Jeongsik Yang, Sangjin Byun, 
Hyunduk Jun, Jeongkyu Park, C.S.G. Conroy, 
Beomsup Kim, “A Four-Channel 3.125Gb/s/ch 
CMOS Serial-Link Transceiver With a Mixed-Mode 
Adaptive Equalizer”, Solid-State Circuits, IEEE 
Journal of Volume 40, Issue 2, Feb. 2005 
[14]  J.G. Manteatis, “Low-Jitter Process-Independent 
DLL and PLL Based on Self-Biased Techniques”, 
Solid-State Circuits, IEEE Journal of Volume 
31,  Issue 11,  Dec. 1996. 
[15] P. Larsson, “A 2-1600-MHz CMOS clock recovery 
PLL with low-Vdd capability”, Solid-State Circuits, 
IEEE Journal of Volume 34,  Issue 12,  Dec. 1999. 
[16] W.H. Lee, J.D. Cho, S.D. Lee,“A High Speed and 
Low Power Phase-Frequency Detector and Charge-
Pump”, IEEE Processing of the ASP-DAC, Vol. 1, 
1999. 
 
八、 計畫成果自評 
(A)具體產出:  
1. 從影像獲得人體姿勢的資訊，與雷達
測量到的呼吸心跳數據做整合，有助
於整體系統效能的提升並達到及時辨
識的目標。  
2. 協助雷達感測器在人體移動偵測上的
不足。  
3. 精確的對病患肢體動作做分析與處理，
增強此系統的監控與照護的功能。  
4. 人體步態、姿勢分析。  
(B)論文發表 
1. Chih-Rung Chen, and Ching-Te Chiu, 
"Curve-Based and Image-based JND 
Contrast Analysis for Inverse Tone 
Mapping Operators,” IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Image Pro-
cessing, Sept. 2011, pp. 353-356.  
2. Tsun-Hsien Wang, and Ching-Te 
Chiu, “Low Visual Difference Virtu-
al High Dynamic Range Image Syn-
thesizer from A Single Legacy Im-
age,” IEEE International Conference 
on Image Processing, Sept. 2011, pp. 
2313-2316.  
3. Ching-Te Chiu, and Cyuan-Jhe Wu, 
“Texture Classification Based Low 
Order Local Binary Pattern for Face 
Recognition,” IEEE International 
Conference on Image Processing, 
國立清華大學補助員生出國參加國際學術會議報告 
                                    序號： 
姓    名 Ching-Te Chiu 單  位 Computer 
Science 
Department 
職  稱 Associate 
Professor 
會議期間 Oct. 5~7, 2011 會議地點 Beirut, Lebanon 
會議名稱 
2011 IEEE Workshop on Signal Processing Systems (SiPS 2011) 
論文名稱 
1. Ruei-Jiun Wang, and Ching-Te Chiu,“Saliency Prediction using Scene Motion for JND based 
Video Compression” SiPS 2011, IEEE Workshop on Signal Processing Systems, 2011. 
2. Wen-Chih Huang, Chih-Hsing Lin, and Ching-Te Chiu, “EMBEDDED TRANSITION 
INVERSION CODING FOR LOW POWER SERIAL LINK,” SiPS 2011, IEEE Workshop on 
Signal Processing Systems, 2011. 
報告內容 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
The 2011 IEEE Workshop on Signal Processing Systems (SiPS 2011) was hold at Beirut, 
Lebanon from Oct. 5 to 7. The SiPS is the IEEE workshop under IEEE Signal Processing Society , 
Design and Implementation for Signal Processing Systems (DiSPS) track. The technical 
committee (TC) member will meet annually at this workshop to discuss the future direction of the 
fields, bidding for next workshop holding and new member voting. The DiSPS TC member is 
now re-elected every three year. I was elected as DiSPS member at 2008 and this year was 
supported by the other TC members and re-elected as a second term TC.  
 
 
Two o papers from our group are presented in the SiPS 2011. One is in the lecture section and the 
other is in the poster section.  
 
The first paper “Saliency Prediction using Scene Motion for JND based Video Compression” was 
presented on Oct. 5 at the oral section. Due to the popularity of online repositories, an efficient 
compression algorithm that removes statistical redundancy and psychovisual redundancies 
without perceptual degradation is important for data transmission and storage. Visual attention 
model and visual sensitivity model are proposed for removing psychovisual redundancies. 
However most visual attention models are based on spatial component analysis, and only a few 
adopt motion vectors for temporal component analysis, which lacks perceptual information. This 
paper proposes a scene motion and saliency motion based visual attention model that effectively 
國立清華大學補助員生出國參加國際學術會議報告 
                                    序號： 
姓    名 Ching-Te Chiu 單  位 Computer 
Science 
Department 
職  稱 Associate 
Professor 
會議期間 Oct. 5~7, 2011 會議地點 Beirut, Lebanon 
會議名稱 
2011 IEEE Workshop on Signal Processing Systems (SiPS 2011) 
論文名稱 
3. Ruei-Jiun Wang, and Ching-Te Chiu,“Saliency Prediction using Scene Motion for JND based 
Video Compression” SiPS 2011, IEEE Workshop on Signal Processing Systems, 2011. 
4. Wen-Chih Huang, Chih-Hsing Lin, and Ching-Te Chiu, “EMBEDDED TRANSITION 
INVERSION CODING FOR LOW POWER SERIAL LINK,” SiPS 2011, IEEE Workshop on 
Signal Processing Systems, 2011. 
報告內容 
 
五、參加會議經過 
 
The 2011 IEEE Workshop on Signal Processing Systems (SiPS 2011) was hold at Beirut, 
Lebanon from Oct. 5 to 7. The SiPS is the IEEE workshop under IEEE Signal Processing Society , 
Design and Implementation for Signal Processing Systems (DiSPS) track. The technical 
committee (TC) member will meet annually at this workshop to discuss the future direction of the 
fields, bidding for next workshop holding and new member voting. The DiSPS TC member is 
now re-elected every three year. I was elected as DiSPS member at 2008 and this year was 
supported by the other TC members and re-elected as a second term TC.  
 
 
Two o papers from our group are presented in the SiPS 2011. One is in the lecture section and the 
other is in the poster section.  
 
The first paper “Saliency Prediction using Scene Motion for JND based Video Compression” was 
presented on Oct. 5 at the oral section. Due to the popularity of online repositories, an efficient 
compression algorithm that removes statistical redundancy and psychovisual redundancies 
without perceptual degradation is important for data transmission and storage. Visual attention 
model and visual sensitivity model are proposed for removing psychovisual redundancies. 
However most visual attention models are based on spatial component analysis, and only a few 
adopt motion vectors for temporal component analysis, which lacks perceptual information. This 
paper proposes a scene motion and saliency motion based visual attention model that effectively 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/19
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫五：主動雷達系統之應用-藉由雷達與視覺融合之含深度的物體處理研
究(I)
計畫主持人: 邱瀞德
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-007-042- 學門領域: 積體電路及系統設計
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
