2????
?????????????????????????????????????
??????????? Visual Basic ?????????? VCTM V1.0 ???????
???????????????????????????????????????
???????????????????????????? 100 W/cm2??????
??????? 870W/mk?????????????VCTM V1.0 ??????????
?????????????????3%?????????????????????
??????????????
?????????????????????????????????????
Abstract
This article utilizes experimental analysis with window program VCTM V1.0 to investigate
the thermal performance of the vapor chamber and apply to high-performance server. The
experimental method is derived a novel formula for the effective thermal conductivity of vapor
chamber and calculated its thermal performance. Results show that the maximum heat flux is
over 100 W/cm2, and effective thermal conductivity is times higher than the copper heat
spreaders. The maximum effective thermal conductivity is 870W/mk from the novel formula, and
comparing it with the experimental value, the calculating error is no more than ?3%.
Keywords? Vapor Chamber, High-Performance Server, Effective Thermal Conductivity.
Nomenclature
A = Area of vapor chamber, m2
L = Length of vapor chamber, m
T = Temperature, ?
W = Width of vapor chamber, m
k = Thermal conductivity, W/m?
t = Thickness of vapor chamber, m
sP = Saturated vapor pressure, N/m
tR = Total thermal resistance, ?/W
inq = Input power, Watt
fgh = Latent heat of working fluid, J/k
h = Height of working fluid inside vapor chamber, m
Subscripts
a = Ambient
b = Base of vapor chamber
h = Heat source
w = Wick structure
da = Mean Lower surface temperature of vapor chamber
dc = Lower central surface temperature of vapor chamber
ua = Mean upper surface temperature of vapor chamber
uc = Upper central surface temperature of vapor chamber
vc = vapor chamber
eff = Effective
4 , , , , , , ,eff b w in fg satK Function k k q h P t A h
soldering folder-fins are discussed the thermal performance and effective thermal conductivity as
shown in Fig.1. Its dimensions are 90 x 90 x 3.0 mm3, porosity of the capillary structure in the
interior of cavity is under 0.5, and the maximum fill-up amount is under 10 mm3. Pure water
containing low oxygen content is enclosed as the working fluid and filled up in the interior of
vapor chamber. Its advantages are embodied in its thermal-physics properties such as extremely
high latent heat and thermal conductivity and low viscosity, as well as its non-toxicity and
incombustibility. Copper mesh composed with 50μmwire diameter has 100/200 mesh pore and
2mm solid diameter copper cylinder supported vacuum and loading force are used to circulate the
working fluid. Its manufacture process utilizes diffusion bounding without any soldering
materials. The copper meshes are bonding to upper, lower and around internal surface to ensure
the circulation of the working fluid to form big water circulation. The overall operating principle
is defined as follows: at the very beginning, the interior of the vapor chamber is in the vacuum,
after the wall face of the cavity absorbing the heat from its source, the working fluid in the
interior will be rapidly transformed into vapor under the evaporating or boiling mechanism and
fill up the whole interior of the cavity, and the resultant vapor will be condensed into liquid by the
cooling action resulted from the convection between the fins and fan on the outer wall of the
cavity, and reflow to the place of the heat source along the capillary structure.
One of major purposes of this paper is to deduce the thermal performance empirical formula
of the vapor chamber, and find out several dimensionless groups for multiple correlated variables
based on the systematic dimensional analysis of the [F.L.T.θ.]in Buckingham Theorem, as
well as the relationship between dimensionless groups and the effective thermal conductivity. Its
theorem is defined as follows: if there are m variables which are functions of each other in certain
physical phenomenon or equation, the dimensional analysis will be changed into i
non-dimensional parameters, and i, the number of parameters is derived from the formula of （m
－r）＝i, in which r represents the number of used dimensions. Reducing r variables like this can
explicitly demonstrate the dimension relation in the physical equation to be analyzed. The most
common method for the dimensional analysis is repeating variables method, its related
procedures are as follows: firstly, determine there are m variables related functions in certain
physical phenomenon or equation, and r basic functions of related variables, and select the
so-called repeating variables from all related variables; secondly, multiply the remaining of i
related variables by different-power of repeating variables one by one to produce i parameters of
Pi; finally, determine the powers of related variables to enable all Pi items to become the
non-dimensional parameter groups. The point to choose repeating variables is giving priority to
relatively common variables, for which the reason is that they will repeatedly occur in Pi
variables. If certain related variable is correlated to other ones, we had better not to choose such
related variable as the repeated variable. If we can deduce the proper non-dimensional parameter
group by use of the dimensional analysis, the relational expression of the whole functional
equation can be effectively deduced by the database of related data inferred from the
above-mentioned experimental parameters.
Figure 2 is the abbreviated drawing of related variables of the vapor chamber to be
confirmed in this article, and the equation (1) is the functional expression deduced based on
related variables as shown in Figure 2. The symbol keff in the equation is the value of effective
thermal conductivity of the vapor chamber, the kb is the thermal conductivity of the material
made of the vapor chamber, the symbol kw is the value of effective thermal conductivity of the
wick structure of the vapor chamber, the unit of these thermal conductivities are W/m?. The
symbol inq is the heat flux of dummy heater and its unit is W/m. The symbol hfg is latent heat of
working fluid which has unit of J/k. The Ps is saturated vapor pressure of working fluid with unit
of N/m. The symbol t is the thickness of vapor chamber and the symbol h is the height of
working fluid inside vapor chamber. Their unit is m. The symbol A is the area of vapor chamber
and its unit is m2.
(1)
It can be inferred from equation (1) that there are nine related variables (symbol m equaling
to 9), and the following equation (2) can be inferred by making use of [F.L.T.θ.] system (symbol
6 xydk in dc da
q t
T T
 
(4)
 xyuk in uc ua
q t
T T
 
(5)
 xyzk in da ua
q t
T T
 
(6)
Certain error necessarily exist between the data measured during experiment, value deriving
from experimental data and actual values due to artificial operation and limitation of accuracy of
experimental apparatus. For this reason, it is necessary take account of experimental error to
create confidence of experiments before analyzing experimental results. The concept of
propagation of error is introduced to calculate experimental error and fundamental functional
relations for propagation of error. During the experiment, various items of thermal resistances
and thermal conductivities are utilized to analyze the heat transfer characteristics of various pars
of thermal modules. The thermal resistance and thermal conductivity belong to derived variable
and includes temperature and heating power, which are measured with experimental instruments.
The error of experimental instruments is propagated to the result value during deduction and thus
become the error of thermal resistance and thermal conductivity values. A experimental error is
represented with a relative error and the maximum relative error of thermal conductivities defined
are within ?2.5% of kz, ?3.7% of kxyd, ?3.7% of kxyu and ?4.2% of kxyz.
2.3 Window Program Development
This window program ‘VCTM V1.0’was coded with Microsoft® Visual BasicTM 6.0 and
calculated the thermal performance of a vapor chamber-based thermal module in this paper.
These parameters affect its thermal performance including the dimensions, thermal performance
and position of vapor chamber. Thus it is very important for the optimum parameters to be
selected to receive the best thermal performance of the vapor chamber-based thermal module.
The program contains two main windows. The first is the selection window adjusted in the
program as the main menu as shown in Fig. 5. In this window, the type of the air direction can be
chosen separately. The second window has five main sub-windows. There are four sub-windows
of the input parameters for thermal module as shown in Fig. 6. The first sub-window is the simple
parameters of vapor chamber including dimensions and thermal performance as shown in Fig.
6(a). Figure 6(b) shows the second sub-window involving detail dimensions of a heat sink. The
third and fourth sub-windows are the simple parameters containing input power of heat source,
materials of thermal grease and solder and performance curve of fan as shown in Figs. 6(c) and
6(d). All the input parameters required for this study of the window program were given and the
window program starts. Later, the program examines the situation by pressing calculated icon.
The fifth sub-window is the window showing the simulation results. In this sub-window, when it
is pressed at calculate icon for making analysis of the thermal performance of a vapor
chamber-based thermal module, we can see a figure as it is shown in Fig. 7.
3. Results and Discuss
The relationship diagram of effective thermal conductivity of the vapor chamber and
heat-source power derived from the thermal-resistance performance experiment as shown in Fig.
8. The value of one-dimensional thermal conductivity kz and two-dimensional thermal
conductivity kxyd are all at about 100 W/m? respectively, much smaller than that of pure copper
and aluminum materials. Taking the example of one-dimensional thermal resistance, the capillary
structure in the interior of the vapor chamber produced very big thermal resistance to render a
small value of one-dimensional thermal conductivity kz. The small value of two-dimensional
thermal conductivity kxyd is due to the thermal-performance below the vapor chamber influenced
by the capillary structure. In terms with kxyu and kxyz of two-and three-dimensional thermal
conductivities, excellent values of thermal conductivity are all above 500 W/m? due to effects
of the latent heat arisen from aqueous phase changed into vapor, which are better than that of
pure copper and aluminum materials. Three-dimensional thermal conductivity kxyz can be
expressed as the value of effective thermal conductivity of the vapor chamber, and replacing the
8aluminum heat spreaders, proving that it can effectively reduce the temperature of heat sources.
The maximum heat flux of the vapor chamber is over 100 W/cm2, and its effective thermal
conductivity will increase with input power increasing. It is deduced from the novel formula that
the maximum effective thermal conductivity is 870W/m ? , and comparing it with the
experimental value, the calculating error is no more than ?3%. From the results of the
thermal-performance experiment, one-and two-dimensional thermal conductivities of the vapor
chamber is about 100 W/m℃, less than that of most single solid-phase metals. Three-dimensional
thermal conductivity of the vapor chamber is up to 870 W/m℃, times than that of pure copper
base plate. The effective thermal conductivities of the vapor chamber are closely relate to its
dimensions and heat-source flux, in the case of small-area vapor chamber and small heat-source
flux, the effective thermal conductivity are less than that of pure copper material. The average
error in calculating the thermal-module performance of the vapor chamber by use of the inferred
formula of the effective thermal conductivity in this article is no less than ?3%. The HP and IBM
blade system thermal module using MicroLoops vapor chamber has very well thermal
performance than traditional thermal module. So, the vapor chamber thermal cooler is the best
thermal solution for the high-performance server.
Acknowledgements
The author gratefully acknowledgment the financial support from NTOU and NSC
97-2218-E-019-003, and the vapor chamber-based thermal module provided from Taiwan
Microloops Co., Ltd. for the present study.
References
1. Jung-Chang Wang, “Superposition Method to Investigate the Thermal Performance of Heat 
Sink with Embedded Heat Pipes”, International Communication in Heat and Mass Transfer,
Vol.36, issue 7, pp.686-692, 2009.
2. F. Lefevre and M. Lallemand, “Coupled thermal and hydrodynamic models of flat micro heat
pipes for the cooling of multiple electronic components”, International Journal of Heat and
Mass Transfer, Vol.49, pp.1375-1383, 2006.
3. Jie Wei, “Challenges in Cooling Design of CPU Packages for High-Performance Servers”,
Heat Transfer Engineering, Vol.29, No.2, pp.178-187, 2006.
4. C. Beaton and G. Hewitt, Physical Property Data for the Design Engineer, Hemisphere, 1989.
5. J.C. Lin, J.C. Wu, C.T. Yen, and C.Y. Yang, “Fabrication and performance analysis of metallic
micro heat spreader for CPU”, 13th International Heat Pipe Conference, Shanghai, China, 
pp.21-25, 2004.
6. Y. Koito, H. Imura, M. Mochizuki, Y. Saito and S. Torii, “Fundamental experiments and
numerical analyses on heat transfer characteristics of a vapor chamber (Effect of heat source
size)”, JSME international Journal, Series B, Vol.49, No.4, pp.1233-1240, 2006.
7. Shou-Shing Hsieh, Ron-Yu Lee, Jin-Cherng Shyu and Shao-Wen Chen,“Thermal performance
of flat vapor chamber heat spreader”, Energy Conversion and Management, Vol.49, Issue 6,
pp.1774-1784, 2008.
8. Yen-Shu Chen, Kuo-Hsiang Chien, Tzu-Chen Hung, Chi-Chuan Wang, Yuh-Ming Feng and
Bau-Shei Pei, “Numerical simulation of a heat sink embedded with a vapor chamber and
calculation of effective thermal conductivity of a vapor chamber”, Applied Thermal
Engineering, Vol.29, Issue 13, pp.2655-2664, 2009.
10
Figure 2. Related variables of the vapor chamber
Figure 3. Experimental testing drawing of the vapor chamber-based thermal module
12
Figure 5. Selection air direction window
?a? ?b?
?c? ?d?
Figure 6. Input parameters before operation (a) Dimensions and thermal performance of
vapor chamber (b) Dimensions and materials of fins (c) Dimensions, input power and
materials of heat source (d) Performance and materials of fan and welding grease
14
Figure 8. The relationship between the effective thermal conductivities of vapor chamber with
input power
16
Figure 10. The relationship between the total thermal resistances of the vapor chamber
thermal module with air volume flow rate at input power 130Watt
18
Table
Table1. Types of folder-fins
Symbol F1 F2 F3 F4
Thickness
(mm) 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
gap (mm) 1.7 1.4 1.0 1.0
Material Cu Cu Cu Al
