 i
Abstract 
This report presents a bass enhancement technique based on a phase vocoder approach.  Instead of boosting 
directly the low frequency range, the proposed method produces a bass sensation by exploiting humans’ 
psychoacoustic properties.  This approach is most desirable in audio reproduction using low-end 
loudspeaker, where direct boosting will result in nonlinear distortions.  In the technique, the bass effect is 
synthesized by creating the super harmonics of the low-frequency content.  Unlike conventional methods 
that rely on nonlinear transformation, the proposed method performs the required frequency transformation 
by using multirate processing and phase vocoder-based pitch shifting.  Apart from frequency 
transformation, another key element of the proposed technique is magnitude adjustment of the super 
harmonics.  The underlying principle for magnitude adjustment is based on a low-order model of the equal 
loudness contour.  The method is implemented on a digital signal processor.  To validate the proposed 
method, objective and subjective experiments are conducted for a PC multimedia loudspeaker and a handset 
microspeaker.  The subjective listening experiment follows the procedure of MUSHRA with the results 
analyzed by the multi-analysis of variance (MANOVA).  As indicated by the results, the proposed 
technique proved to be more effective in producing virtual bass. 
 
Keywords: psychoacoustic、super harmonics、multirate processing、equal loudness contour 
摘要 
本篇報告闡述一種重低音加強的效果。不同於過去直接加強低頻訊號的成分，本篇報告是採用心理
聲學的特性原理來產生重低音感覺。由於直接補強低頻增益會造成非線性失真的嚴重問題，而本報
告的作法則是較有效率且較無失真的方式。虛擬重低音合成的作法是產生原低頻訊號的數個中頻諧
波，且本作法是採用多率系統以及音調提高的演算法等優點。針對各個產生的中頻諧波，採取了大
小的權重計算，主要是以等響度曲線的低階模型為依據來作權重的計算。最後將虛擬重低音合成技
術以數位訊號處理器家以即時處理實現。為了評估本作法的成效，實施主觀以及客觀實驗加以驗證
虛擬重低音合成技術在一般多媒體喇叭以及行動電話喇叭上的成效；最後將客觀聽力實驗的數據經
由統計軟體加以分析觀察其效果的顯著性。實驗數據顯示虛擬重低音合成技術確實可以提供一個重
低音加強的感覺。 
 
關鍵詞：心理聲學、諧波、多率系統、等響度曲線 
 
 1
I. INTRODUCTION 
Computer, Communication, and Consumer electronics 
(3C) products are being faced with strong demands from the 
marketplace of more audio and video functions.  For example, 
game stations are designed to provide quality animations as 
well as audio rendering with spatial fidelity.  Another example 
is that a third-generation (3G) handset has been devised to 
serve not only as a phone but as a MP3 player, a TV, and a 
camera.  Therefore, new thoughts must be given to design 
audio systems that best address the needs of 3C products. 
Bass enhancement is one of the key elements in modern 
audio reproduction.  A longstanding challenge in bass 
enhancement has been how to produce bass using a 
loudspeaker that has no low-frequency capability, e.g., a 
handset microspeaker.  A common way of dealing with this 
problem is through the use of equalizers.  The low-frequency 
gain is increased using shelving filers or other electronic means.  
This requires substantial increases in system headroom such 
that the system can be driven beyond its operating limits.  
Unless the loudspeaker and the power amplifier are completely 
redesigned for the low-frequency purpose, direct bass boosting 
will only result in nonlinear distortions, or even permanent 
damage. 
Instead of the physical means mentioned above, this 
paper focuses on an alternative approach that avoids the above 
drawbacks of conventional methods.  It is termed the Virtual 
Bass (VB) system because it creates bass impression 
psychoacoustically without actually producing low-frequency 
signals.  The VB system exploits a bandwidth extension 
property of human hearing that humans are capable of 
“extrapolating” the missing fundamental in the low frequency 
range based on higher harmonics.  Even if in a harmonic 
complex, the fundamental frequency is missing, it will still 
perceived as a residue pitch, which in this case is sometimes 
called virtual pitch.  The fact that the fundamental need not be 
physically present to evoke a pitch percept at the same 
fundamental is an attractive feature to enhance bass sounds 
produced by small loudspeakers.  A very comprehensive 
coverage of psychoacoustic bandwidth extension can be found 
in the monograph by Larsen and Aarts Ref. [1].  MaxxBass 
represents one of the commercial systems that made use of this 
psychoacoustic property Ref. [2].  Super harmonics are 
created using nonlinear operations.  Amplitudes of the 
harmonics are determined according to an approximate rule of 
loudness.  Shashoua and Glotter proposed another VB system 
using similar principles Ref. [3].  A residue harmonics 
generator in a feedback loop was used in their system to create 
the required harmonics.  The processing of this approach was 
computationally expensive.  Gan at al. presented a VB system 
based on similar psychoacoustic principle.  However, in their 
approach, super harmonics were created by signal modulation 
Ref. [4]. 
The approach proposed in this paper relies on the similar 
psychoacoustic principle, but a very distinct way of realization.  
The harmonic generation in this method is based on the phase 
vocoder approach Refs [5].  The phase vocoder is a simple but 
effective technique for time-frequency processing.  The phase 
vocoder approach offers a significant advantage over previous 
approaches for harmonic generation in that phase coherence 
can be preserved during processing.  Phase coherence plays 
an important role of audio quality Ref. [5].  An artifact, or the 
so-called phasiness, will be audible if phase propagation from a 
frame to a frame is not properly dealt with in harmonic 
generation. 
Determination of the magnitude of each harmonic is 
another important issue in the VB system.  This is generally 
achieved by taking into account the loudness of the signals in 
low frequencies.  According to psychoacoustics, humans’ 
perception of loudness of sound is strongly frequency-
dependent and can be characterized by the equal loudness 
contours Ref. [6].  For natural bass reproduction, the 
magnitude of the super harmonics generated by the VB system 
should be adjusted in accord with the equal loudness contour.  
Instead of using the approximate loudness analyzers Refs. [3]- 
[4], we use an accurate polynomial model to calculate the 
 3
where kΩ denotes the center frequency of each bandpass filter.  
The filter operation of the required time-frequency 
transformation is accomplished by the convolution: 
( , )
m=-
( )  ( ) ( ) ( , ) j n kk kx n x m h n - m X n k e
φ∞
∞
= = ⋅∑             (6) 
where 
2( , ) ( , )kn k n n k
N
πφ φ= + .                       (7) (7)  Instead of using IFFT, the sum of
/2
=0
ˆ( ) = ( ) 
N
k
k
y n y n∑                                 (8)     (8) Using the fact that the bandpass signal
*
-? ( )  ( )k N ky n y n=                                (9)     (9) Substitution of Eq. (12) into Eq. (10) l
/ 2
0
ˆ ( )  ( , ) cos[ ( , )]
N
k
k
y n A n k n kφ
=
= ∑                 (10)      (10) where 
0 0ˆ ( )= ( ), =0 dc channelsy n y n k                   (11) 
( , )=2 ( , ) , =1,..., /2-1A n k X n k k N              (12) 
and ( )n,kφ is the modified phase.  Thus, the resulting signal 
can be viewed as a linear combination of weighted sinusoids.  
In this FFT/ sum of sinusoids structure, each ( , )A n k and 
( )n,kφ for a time index n can be obtained by linear 
interpolation from two successive frames.  The phase 
propagates through time in relation to the instantaneous 
frequency if  according to the following integral relation:      (12)      (11) ( , )=2 ( ,A n k X n k
0
( , ) (0, ) 2 ( , )
n
in k k f k d
τφ φ π τ τ= + ∫               (13) 
3.   Coherence of Phase Propagation  (13) 3.   Coherence of Phase Propagat
Phase is a key element to the sound quality in phase 
vocoder-based synthesis Refs. [15]-[16].  Phasiness may arise 
when phase coherence is not well-maintained and artifacts may 
be audible due to phase and amplitude modulation.  In order 
to maintain phase coherence, a phase unwrapping procedure is 
required.  The unwrapping process corrects phase angles to 
produce continuous phase plots, which is crucial in calculating 
instantaneous frequency (phase increment per sample).  
Instantaneous frequency can be estimated from successive 
short-time Fourier transform.  For a given value of k, 
computing the backward difference of the short-time Fourier 
transform phase yields Eq. (14): 
(( +1) , ) ( , ) 2 2s s s is R k sR k m R f mφ φ φ π π∆ = − + = +  
                 (14) 
in which the instantaneous frequency fi is assumed to be 
constant over the hop size of Ra.  The term 2mπ which 
comes the fact that only the principal determination of the 
phase is known is estimated the following way.  Since the 
sinusoid falls within the k channel, Eq. (15) can be received: 
| ( ) |k i a hf R ωΩ − ≤          (15) 
where wh is the bandwidth of the analysis window.  If Ra is 
such that <h aRω π , Eq. (16) is obtained: 
2 |k aR mφ π π∆ −Ω − < .        (16) 
Once m is determined, the instantaneous frequency can be 
obtained by Eq. (17), yielding 
1 ( 2 )i k k a
a
f R m
R
φ π= Ω + ∆ −Ω − .            (17) 
Thus, the instantaneous frequency is estimated, and the phase 
coherence is preserved. 
C. Pitch-Shifting 
   Pitch-shifting is used as the key element to generate super 
harmonics for the VB system.  In the section, how pitch-
shifting can be accomplished by using the phase vocoder 
approach will be demonstrated. 
    It should be clear that pitch-shifting is different from 
frequency shifting.  By definition, frequency shifting applies a 
constant addition to every frequency component, whereas 
pitch-shifting performs a constant multiplication to every 
frequency component.  Pitch-shifting alters the instantaneous 
frequency by a constant factor while maintaining phase 
coherence.  The modified instantaneous frequency in effect 
changes the pitch of the signal after synthesis.  The pitch-up 
effect is achieved using a pitch-shift parameter greater than 
unity, whereas the pitch-down effect using a pitch-shift 
parameter less than unity.  Let ( )kφ and ( )kψ be the phases 
in the analysis and the synthesis stages, respectively, and α 
be the pre-specified pitch-shift parameter.  The procedures of 
pitch-shifting can be summarized as follows: 
 5
where ( , )hE f n  is the energy of the nth harmonic in dB, Ef is 
the energy of the fundamental frequency component in dB.  ρ 
is a small amount in dB used to adjust the difference of energy. 
2. The phase vocoder-based VB System 
In contrast to the time-domain methods such as MaxxBass, 
a frequency-domain method is used in the present work to 
implement the VB system.  Unlike the nonlinear device in 
MaxxBass and modulation scheme used in the system 
suggested in Ref. [4], the harmonic generator proposed in this 
paper is based on aforementioned pitch-shifting phased 
vocoder.  The low-frequency signals are shifted to the 
intended harmonic in the high frequency range. 
 The pitch-shifting effect is used to scale the frequency f 
by a factor α so as to produce a new signal with higher 
frequency f ′ by Eq. (24): 
= f fα′ ⋅ .          (24)   
As compared to the other methods based on nonlinear 
processing or modulation, the advantage of phase vocoder 
approach lies in the fact that phase coherence is well preserved, 
which leads to audio signals with better quality. 
The proposed VB system is depicted in the block diagram 
of Fig. 6.  First, a lowpass filter with cut-off frequency of 
loudspeaker is applied to the input signal.  Second, the 
lowpass filtered signal is down-sampled and windowed by 
Hanning window and then transformed to the frequency-
domain using FFT.  The FFT size is 2048 and the taps number 
of Hanning window is also 2048. Third, the phase vocoder-
based pitch-shifting algorithm is employed to generate required 
harmonics at the high frequencies.  It should be noted that the 
signals below the cutoff frequency are divided into three bands.  
H1, H2, and H3 in Fig. 7 are three bands in frequency domain.  
These frequency bands are obtained from the result of FFT, in 
other words, each frequency band is received according to 
corresponding frequency bin number.  Thus, time domain 
filtering operation can be avoided, which reduces the 
computational loading in implementation.  Every frequency in 
the band needs be shifted with the same ratio to the high 
frequency.  For example, a band covering 80-120 Hz will be 
shifted to a new band covering 160-240 Hz to serve as the 
second harmonic, to another band covering 240-360 Hz to 
serve as the third harmonic, and so forth.  In general, 
generating up to the fourth harmonic suffices.  Then, those 
revised spectra are converted to time domain wave form by 
utilizing the sum of sinusoids structure.  Finally, with the hop 
size of 512, next frame is manipulated by this procedure, which 
is shown in Fig. 6. 
The generated harmonic signals must be appropriately 
weighted to reflect proper tmibre and loudness.  In the present 
work, these weighs are determined psychoacoustically 
according to the equal loudness contours [6], as shown in Fig. 
8. Close inspection of these contours reveals that, as the 
contours slope downward at low frequencies, humans’ hearing 
is insensitive in terms of loudness at low frequencies, which 
must be taken into account in the design of the VB system.  
The contours are more compressed for very low frequencies 
than for higher frequencies.  Consequently, if we vary the 
level of two pure tones of unequal frequency by the same 
amount, then the loudness variation of the two will be unequal.  
The lower frequency tones will appear to have greater variation 
than the higher frequency tones.  For the VB synthesis, this 
would imply that if low-frequency components are replaced by 
high-frequency components, loudness variations decrease.  
The signal shifted to the high frequencies should be properly 
attenuated to yield the same loudness as the low frequencies.  
The equal loudness contours can be parameterized by the 
following equation Ref. [6]: 
( )
4.2
1 ( )
f f f
N
f f f
a L T
L
b L T
−= + + − ,        (25) 
where fL and NL  denote sound pressure level (SPL, dB) and 
loudness (phon), respectively, and fa , fb and fT are 
frequency-dependent parameters listed in Table I.  In the 
present VB system, these frequency independent parameters 
are further fitted into polynomials described in Eqs. (26) - (28): 
 7
frequencies with the duration unchanged.  Figure 13 shows an 
original version and VB version of a pop music clip whose 
duration is 46ms.  Figure 13 (b) shows the low frequency 
components within 120Hz are replaced by harmonics above 
120 Hz. According to Fig. 13(b), it is observed that the low 
frequency of original signal is removed but the low frequency 
impression is enhanced by generating the relative harmonics in 
the range from 120 Hz to 480 Hz of the low frequency 
components.  In spite of removing the frequency components 
within the cut-off frequency of stereo loudspeaker, the VB 
signal still gives a deeper bass sensation than original signal. 
B.  Subjective Listening Tests 
Since the VB system proposed in this research is 
psychaoustics-based, it would be convincing to verify it with 
subjective listening tests.  Sixteen subjects participated in 
these tests.  The loudspeaker arrangement and listening room 
follows the standard, ITU-R BS 1116 Ref. [9].  Multi Stimuli 
with Hidden Reference and Anchor (MUSHRA) of ITU-R BS 
1534-1 Ref. [10] procedure was employed as the test procedure.  
Two audio attributes were selected to be the subjective indices 
for the tests: 
a. Bass impression: Dominance of low-frequency 
sound. 
b. Audio quality in terms of noise and distortion: Any 
extraneous disturbances to the signal are 
considered as noise.  Effects on the signal that 
produces new sound or timbre change are 
considered as distortion. 
The subjects participating in the tests were instructed with 
definitions of the subjective indices before the tests.  In the 
listening tests, the subjects were asked to respond on a 
questionnaire with the subjective indices placed on the scale 
from 1 to 5.  Scales from 1 to 5 indicate the quality of bad, 
poor, fair, good and excellent, respectively.  The performance 
of the proposed phase vocoder-based VB system and the 
MaxxBass system was compared.  A pop music excerpt was 
used as the stimulus.  In the MUSHRA test, the unprocessed 
signal was used as the hidden reference and the highpass 
filtered signal as the anchor.  The anchor does not contain 
frequency components below the loudspeaker cut-off 
frequency.   The VB algorithms were implemented on a 
floating-point digital signal processor (DSP), ADI SHARC 
21161.  The test cases can be randomly selected by the 
subjects.  Finally, in order to justify the statistical significance 
of the test results, the scores from all subjects were processed 
by using the MANOVA Ref. [11].  Three assumptions for 
MANOVA are as follows: independence of grading, normal 
distribution of scores for each case, and homogeneity of 
variance between cases.  MANOVA uses Levene’s test to 
verify the assumption of homogeneity.   The result Levene’s 
test indicates the homogeneity of variance between cases is 
violated.  However, Levene’s test is fairly robust when its 
normality assumption is violated.  Therefore, the experimental 
data can be analyzed via MANOVA.  Cases with p-value 
below 0.05 indicate that the difference between cases is 
statistically significant. 
In the first listening test, a multimedia two-channel stereo 
loudspeaker with 120Hz cut-off frequency was employed as 
the rendering device, as shown in Fig. 14(a).  Four stimuli 
obtained using the proposed VB system, the MaxxBass, the 
hidden reference and the anchor, were reproduced for the test.  
The grades of the bass impression and the audio quality are 
shown in Fig. 15, respectively, where the vertical bars indicate 
the 0.95 confidence intervals.  The p-value in the MANOVA 
output is only 0.00001, indicating that the difference among the 
methods is statistically significant.  As expected, the anchor 
attained the lowest performance in bass impression because its 
low-frequency content has been filtered out.  Both the 
MaxxBass system and the VB system produced better bass 
impression than the unprocessed reference.  However, the 
proposed VB system significantly outperformed the MaxxBass 
system by nearly one point in the test.  On the other hand, in 
terms of audio quality, the stimuli processed using the VB 
system and the MaxxBass system did not seem to perform as 
well as the unprocessed reference because of some unnatural 
sensation reported by some of the subjects.  Nevertheless, 
 9
Audio Eng. Soc., vol. 47, pp.928-936,1999. 
[6]  D.W.Robinson and R.S.Dadson, “A re-determination of 
the equal-loudness relations for pure tones” Br. J. Appl. 
Phys. 7, pp.166-181 ,1956. 
[7] R. E. Crochiere and L. R. Rabiner, Multirate Digital Signal 
Processing. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1983. 
[8]  P. P. Vaidyanathan, Multirate Systems and Filter Banks. 
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1993. 
[9] ITU-R BS. 1116, “Methods for the Subjective Assessment 
of Small Impairments in Audio System Including 
Multichannel Sound Systems,” Geneva, Switzerland, 1994. 
[10] ITU-R Recommendation BS.1534-1, “Method for the 
Subjective Assessment of Intermediate Sound Quality 
(MUSHRA),” International Telecommunications Union, 
Geneva, Switzerland, 2001. 
[11] G. Keppel and S. Zedeck, Data Analysis for Research 
Designs. New York: W. H. Freeman and Company, 1989. 
[12] A.V. Oppenheim and R.W. Schafer, Discrete-Time 
Signal Processing. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 
1999. 
[13] U. Zolzer (ed.), DAFX: Digital Audio Effects, John Wiley, 
2002. 
[14] M. Kahrs, Applications of Digital Signal Processing to 
Audio and Acoustics. Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1998. 
[15] T.H. Andersen and K. Jensen, “Importance and 
Representation of Phase in the Sinusoidal Model,” J. 
Audio Eng. Soc., vol. 52, no.11, pp.1157-1169, 2004. 
[16] J. Laroche and M. Dolson, “Improved Phase Vocoder 
Time-Scale Modification of Audio,” IEEE Trans. Speech 
and Audio Processing, vol. 7, no. 3, pp.323-332, 1999. 
 11
unprocessed signal shown in Fig. 11.  In the time-frequency domain, the frequency contents are 
moved to high frequency. 
Fig. 13   Spectrum of (a) original signal and (b) virtual bass signal.  The material is a pop music clip.  
The FFT size is 2048. 
Fig. 14 Listening test arrangement.  (a) Equipment arrangement for stereo loudspeaker.  (b) Equipment 
arrangement for microspeaker handset. 
Fig. 15 Grades for the listening test of stereo loudspeaker.  The p-value is 0.00001.  The grades for 
index of bass impression: this plot shows the VB approach gives a deeper bass impression than 
any other stimuli.  The grades for index of audio quality in terms of noise and distortion: The 
proposed VB results in less distortion and noise than MaxxBass and the anchor. 
Fig. 16 Grades for the listening test of dual-loudspeaker mobile phone.  The p- value is 0.00213.  The 
grades for index of bass impression: this plot shows the VB approach gives a deeper bass 
impression than any other stimuli.  The grades for index of audio quality in terms of noise and 
distortion: The proposed VB results in less distortion and noise than MaxxBass and the anchor. 
 
 
 
 13
 
 
 
Fig. 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n 
yN-1(n) 
k 
0 1 8
Fr
eq
ue
nc
y 
bi
n 
X(8,k) 
N-1 
Time index
y0(n) 
 15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 
 
 
 
 
 
|Y(n,k)| |X(n,k)| 
ψ(n,k)φ(n,k) 
Analysis Magnitude and Synthesis 
Analysis Magnitude and Synthesis 
Analysis Magnitude and Synthesis 
y(n) x(n) 
 17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
↑16
768 samples 
d l
H2
HG with 
PG sum of 
H1
HG with 
PG sum of 
H3
HG with 
PG sum of 
LPF ↓16 FFT
 19
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 8 (a), (b) 
 21
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
f (Hz) f (Hz) 
m
ag
ni
tu
de
 
H1 H2 H3 
m
ag
ni
tu
de
 
harmonics generated from H2 
 23
 
 
Fig. 11 
 
 
 
 
Fr
eq
ue
nc
y 
(H
z)
 
Time
Time
A
m
pl
itu
de
 
 25
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 13  
  
 27
 
(b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 14 (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Microspeakers of 
handsets 
Listener
40cm
 29
 
 
 
Fig. 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
