 2
mode mismatch. To mitigate these optical 
losses, the advanced microfabrication 
technologies are used for reducing sidewall 
roughness to nanometer scale, in addition, 
extra beam spot-size converters [7] or grating 
couplers [8] are introduced to improve the 
coupling efficiency. However, the fabrication 
steps become complex and critical. In this 
project, we employ the process of hydrogen 
annealing [9] to fabricate the optical devices 
with ultra-smooth surface on SOI, such as 
monolithic integrated low-loss silicon 
photonic wires with two-dimensional (2D) 
spot-size converters [10, 11], and high 
quality factor silicon microtoroids [9, 12]. 
The fabrication process is greatly simplified 
via the thermal annealing technique. 
This report involves the mechanism of 
thermal annealing in hydrogen ambience, the 
process flow of fabricating photonic wires 
and microtoroids, as well as the experimental 
results on measuring 3rd-order nonlinear 
optical properties of the silicon photonic 
wires. 
  
II. Hydrogen annealing 
   
For crystalline silicon, the surface atoms 
easily migrate along the crystal plane in 
heated hydrogen ambience if the atoms gain 
enough kinetic energy. The use of hydrogen 
is essential because of (i) heated hydrogen 
gas can remove surface passivation such as 
native oxide, and (ii) the activation energy 
for surface diffusion is relatively low as the 
surface is exposed to hydrogen [13] than 
other gases. The migrating surface atoms 
tend to move to positions where the total 
surface energy is minimized. Therefore, 
microscopic surface morphology as well as 
global feature profile is affected if the 
migration length is comparable to or larger 
than the structural dimensions. Fig. 1 shows 
a schematic of profile transformation on an 
as-etched silicon mesa during annealing. 
Surface atoms tend to leave from convex 
corners and accumulate at concave corners. 
Thus any sharp corner on the structure turns 
round after annealing. Via the surface 
diffusion process, total volume of silicon 
atoms remains and only the surface atoms 
migrate to smooth out sidewall roughness 
created during the etching process to 
sub-nanometer scale. 
To acquire more insight into 2D profile 
evolution, fig. 2 shows the radii of curvature 
of an annealed corner as a function of 
annealing time with respect to different 
temperatures simulated by Mullins’ model 
[14]. The corner radius approximately 
increases with the fourth root of annealing 
time according to the simulation result. Still, 
a larger annealed corner radius can be 
achieved by increasing annealing 
temperature. This theoretical analysis is very 
important for predicting the transformed 
profile after hydrogen annealing. 
 
III. Fabrication 
 
Fig. 3 (a) illustrates the process steps of 
fabricating silicon photonic wires. First, a 
high-aspect-ratio silicon slab of 0.5 μm wide 
and 5 μm high was patterned on a SOI 
substrate by deep dry etching. Then after 
hydrogen annealing, the top of the slab 
became round with the lateral dimension 
slightly expanding. Next, wet oxidation was 
applied to oxidize the bottom silicon slab and 
form oxide cladding on the silicon wire. 
 
Fig. 1. Schematic illustration of silicon atom 
migration on surface during hydrogen annealing. [9]
 
Fig. 2. Simulated evolution of radius of curvature on 
a rectangular corner at 1000°C, 1050°C and 1100°C. 
The process pressure is assumed to be 10torr. [9] 
(i) Deep etch
Si
Si
SiO2
Si
Si
SiO2
(ii) Hydrogen annealing (iii) Wet oxidation
Si
Si
SiO2
  
1 m
SiO2 cladding
Si core
(a)       (b) 
Fig. 3. (a) Schematic illustration of silicon-wire 
fabrication and (b) SEM image (cross-section view)
of a fabricated silicon photonic wire.  
 4
be due to the relatively large core area of the 
2D beam spot-size converter connecting to 
the photonic wire, since free carriers require 
more time to diffuse to the Si-SiO2 interface 
for recombination once they are generated in 
the tapered region. 
 
B. Four-wave mixing 
 
Nonlinear process of four-wave mixing 
(FWM) provides the function of all-optical 
wavelength conversion, which is essential for 
optical signal processing and transmission. 
We demonstrated FWM on a mere 0.5 mm 
long silicon photonic wire with pump power 
less than 100 mW. Dual light sources of the 
pump and input waves were generated by 
using two tunable lasers and an erbium 
doped fiber amplifier. The pump and input 
frequencies v1, v2 correspond to optical 
wavelengths of 1546.34 nm and 1547.74 nm, 
respectively. The FWM spectrum was 
captured by an optical spectrum analyzer, 
and shown in Fig. 7 (a). The signal wave 
2v1-v2 at 1544.94 nm and its 
phase-conjugated part 2v2-v1 at 1549.13 nm 
are created via the FWM process. The 
conversion efficiency defined by the ratio of 
signal to input power is expressed by 
2
212log10


P
P   (2) 
, where P21-2 is the signal power and P2 is 
the input power. The measured conversion 
efficiency versus the pump power is shown 
in Fig. 7 (b). The maximal conversion 
efficiency of the FWM process reaches -32 
dB on a 0.5 mm long silicon photonic wire. 
However larger conversion efficiency can be 
achieved by properly increasing the wire 
length. 
 
C. Spontaneous Raman emission 
 
 Silicon Raman scattering has been 
reported by many research groups for 
realizing very compact active components 
such as Raman lasers [16] and Raman 
amplifiers [17, 6]. Here, we present the 
observation of spontaneous Raman emission 
at 1540 nm on a 4 mm long silicon photonic 
wire. A 1 W CW pump laser at 1427 nm was 
used in the experiment. The Stokes spectrum 
was recorded by an optical spectrum analyzer 
with a scanning resolution of 0.01 nm. The 
measured spectrum of spontaneous Raman 
scattering were plotted in Fig. 8 (a). Since 
the line width of the 1427 nm pump laser is 
0.8 nm, the Stokes spectrum was observed to 
be centered at 1540 nm and spread over 1 nm, 
agreeing well with the gain bandwidth of 105 
GHz and the frequency shift of 15.6 THz for 
first-order Raman scattering in silicon. To 
examine the Raman scattering process along 
the waveguide, the pump wave and Stokes 
wave are modeled by the following equations 
)()(
)(
)0()(
zPzP
dz
zdP
ePzP
pR
R
z
pp



 
 (3) 
, where PP(z) is the pump power, PR(z) is the 
Stokes-wave power,  is the attenuation 
coefficient of propagation, which is 1.26 
dB/cm according to [10,11].  is the Raman 
gain coefficient. The nonlinear optical loss 
and pump depletion are not included in these 
equations. The measured power of 
spontaneous Raman emission versus pump 
power is exhibited in Fig. 8 (b). According to 
(3), the value of can be found by a curve 
fitting technique. The Raman gain coefficient 
of the silicon wire was estimated to be nearly 
1 × 10-8 cm-1, which is close to the reported 
value for channel silicon wires [4] and is 
almost an order of magnitude larger than 
conventional rib waveguides [6]. Moreover, 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
0
10
20
30
40
50
Input power (mW)
O
ut
pu
t p
ow
er
 (m
W
)
 = 1 ns
measured data
 
Fig. 6. Nonlinear loss measurement on a 0.5 mm 
long silicon wire. 
1544 1546 1548 1550-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
Wavelength (nm)
Po
w
er
 le
ve
l (
dB
m
)
signal
pump
input
phase conj.
Po
w
er
 le
ve
l (
dB
m
)
  
16 16.5 17 17.5 18-42
-40
-38
-36
-34
-32
Pump power (dBm)
C
on
ve
rs
io
n 
ef
fic
ie
nc
y 
(d
B) measured data
linear fitting curve
(a)        (b) 
Fig. 7. (a) Measured four-wave mixing spectrum. (b) 
Measured conversion efficiency versus optical pump 
power. 
 6
333-339 (1957). 
[15]  T. K. Liang, and H. K. Tsang, "Role of free 
carriers from two-photon absorption in Raman 
amplification in silicon-on-insulator 
waveguides," Applied Physics Letters 84, 
2745-2747 (2004). 
[16]  H. S. Rong, S. B. Xu, O. Cohen, O. Raday, M. 
Lee, V. Sih, and M. Paniccia, "A cascaded 
silicon Raman laser," Nature Photonics 2, 
170-174 (2008). 
[17]  R. Jones, H. S. Rong, A. S. Liu, A. W. Fang, 
M. J. Paniccia, D. Hak, and O. Cohen, "Net 
continuous wave optical gain in a low loss 
silicon-on-insulator waveguide by stimulated 
Raman scattering," Optics Express 13, 519-525 
(2005). 
  
 
 
 
出 國 成 果 報 告 
 
撰寫人員：李明昌 
會議名稱：IEEE/LEOS The 6th International Conference on Group IV 
Photonics 
出訪國家：美國（舊金山） 
日    期：自 98 年 9 月 5 日至 98 年 9 月 13 日止 
出國性質： ■研討會 ■拜訪機構 □洽談合作 □引進技術 □           
備註/說明：  發表論文 
Hong-Sheng Hsieh, Chieh-Hao Wang, Ming-Chang M. Lee, and Kai-Ming 
Feng, “All-optical 3R regeneration in silicon photonic wires though 
cross-phase modulation and free-carrier dispersion”, IEEE/LEOS The 6th 
International Conference on Group IV Photonics, September 9 -11, 2009, 
San Francisco, California 
 
 
中華民國   96   年   9   月   21   日 
 
All-optical 3R regeneration in silicon photonic 
wires though cross-phase modulation and free-
carrier dispersion 
 
Hong-Sheng Hsieh1, Chieh-Hao Wang1, Ming-Chang M. Lee1, and Kai-Ming Feng1,2 
1Institute of Photonics Technologies, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
2Institute of Communications Engineering , National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan, R.O.C 
 
Abstract-We propose an all-optical 3R regeneration scheme 
utilizing silicon-wire nonlinear photonics including cross-phase 
modulation and free-carrier dispersion. From the simulation 
results, the Q-factor of 10-Gb/s RZ signals can be improved with a 
suitable free-carrier lifetime. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
In optical communication networks, the transmitted optical 
signals will suffer from dispersion, amplified-spontaneous-
emission noise, fiber nonlinearity, and so on. These effects 
cause signal distortion, and detectors can’t identify the data bit 
between logic ‘1’ and ‘0’. To reduce bit error rate, signals need 
to be regenerated. One of the famous techniques for all-optical 
regeneration is the Mamyshev regenerator [1] which utilizes 
self–phase modulation (SPM) in highly nonlinear dispersion-
shifted fiber (HNL-DSF) to offset the carrier wavelength and 
uses optical filters to recover signals. But it would produce 
other problems such as timing jitter [2]. In [3], Suzuki et al, 
proposed fiber-based 3R all-optical regenerator, using the 
wavelength shift induced by cross-phase modulation (XPM) in 
HNL-DSF. It enables not only reamplifying, reshaping but also 
retiming the data signals. However, it requires approximately a 
750-m long HNL-DSF with nonlinear coefficient about 20    
W-1km-1. The cost is high and impedes real applications.   
Silicon has been demonstrated with strong optical 
nonlinearity such as Raman scattering and optical Kerr effects. 
Silicon photonic wires, furthermore, exhibit even stronger 
nonlinear effects since the waveguide core is typically only 
about 0.1 μm2. If tapered couplers are incorporated for 
coupling light from lasers or fibers to the waveguide, the 
power density can be magnified by several orders of magnitude. 
Therefore, the long highly nonlinear fiber could be replaced by 
a short silicon photonic wire. Previously, several groups have 
demonstrated using silicon photonic wires for optical 2R or 3R 
regeneration through SPM or four-wave mixing (FWM). 
However, two-photon absorption (TPA) and TPA-induced 
free-carrier absorption (FCA) are still an issue. In this paper, 
we propose a scheme of all-optical 3R regeneration through 
XPM and free-carrier dispersion (FCD). In this approach, free 
carriers could be useful for improving the quality of signal 
regeneration instead of deterioration, if the free-carrier lifetime 
can be controlled to be shorter than the time frame of each 
signal bit.   
 
II. LOGIC-INVERTED OPTICAL 3R REGENERATION SCHEME 
Figure 1 illustrates the setup of the 3R regenerator. First, 
input RZ signal with central wavelength λ1 are amplified by an 
erbium-doped fiber amplifier (EDFA) and then go through a 
bandpass filter to remove the amplified-spontaneous-emission 
(ASE) noise. A clean clock pulse train, with central 
wavelength λ2, is properly tuned on the delay time and 
synchronization. The signal and clock pulses are combined and 
launched into the silicon photonic wire. The time delay of 
clock pulses is adjusted so each clock pulse is exactly located 
on the trailing edge of the signal pulse. As the signal is at the 
state of bit logic ‘1’, the center wavelength of clock pulses 
would be shifted toward shorter wavelength (blue shift) 
through XPM and FCD from signals. Meanwhile, both the 
signal and clock pulses are strongly attenuated by TPA and 
FCA. Another bandpass filter with wavelength λ2 is placed 
behind the silicon photonic wire for blocking the signal and 
blue-shifted clock pulses. In this case, the original bit logic ‘1’ 
is converted to bit logic ‘0’. One thing worth to note is that the 
FCA actually suppresses the optical noise passing through the 
filter. On the other hand, as the bit logic is at ‘0’ state, since no 
nonlinear process occurs, the clean clock pulses can be filtered 
out, resulting in bit logic ‘1’. The output pulses of the inverted 
mode have a better quality since they do not suffer from pulse 
distortion due to other high-order nonlinear or dispersive 
effects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A detailed description on pulse operation is given in Fig. 2(a) 
(b). We assume that both signal and clock pulses are Gaussian 
profile with pulse widths of 10 ps and 3 ps, respectively. The 
peak power of signal pulses is 6~7 W. The silicon wire is 1 cm 
long and has an effective mode field of 0.2 μm2 (the dimension 
refers to the paper [4] and Aeff is calculated by Fimmwave). 
The BPF2 has bandwidth of 0.5 nm and is centered at λ2. Fig. 
Fig. 1 Schematic of logic-inverted optical 3R regeneration
λ1 
λ2 
1   0   1   1   0 
0   1   0   0   1    
Delay
163
ThP18 
5:15 PM – 7:00 PM
978-1-4244-4403-8/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE
