 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
RFID 系統發展及其產業應用 
Development of RFID System and Its Application to 
Semiconductor Industry 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2218-E-002-006 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
  主持人：黃漢邦 台灣大學機械工程學系 
共同主持人：吳文中 台灣大學工程科學與海洋工程學系 
共同主持人：陳凱瀛 台北科技大學工業工程與管理系 
共同主持人：郭瑞祥 台灣大學工商管理學系 
 
研究人員：  
  金威翰、陳育章  台灣大學工業工程研究所 
  鄭哲欣、白宗正  台灣大學工業工程研究所 
 
一、中文摘要 
RFID 技術是一種電子式的資訊承載裝置，主
要是利用射頻訊號以無線通訊的方式來傳輸資
料，具備遠距讀取、高儲存量等特性，被視為取
代傳統條碼的新興技術，並可用於辨別、追蹤、
排序和確認各式各樣的物件，相當適合應用在門
禁管理、車輛辨識、資產追蹤、存貨控制、動物
晶片、與工廠自動化。本計畫主要的目標是將RFID
的技術應用於半導體產業，並針對 RFID 晶片、
RFID 系統軟體環境、RFID 應用在工廠內部維修
診斷、及 RFID 應用在工廠外部的供應鏈管理作一
完整探討。 
子計畫一的目標主要有三大項，首先是無線
辨識系統標籤的天線與晶片之設計與製作；其次
是奈米碳管電晶體開發；最後是有機薄膜電晶體
之製程開發。在過去三年中，已建構完整全噴墨
有機薄膜電晶體製程，除建構完善的噴墨系統
外，並以製程改進改善有機薄膜電晶體的電性，
並成功的製作簡單的反向器電路，未來將朝向製
作全噴墨的完整 RFID 晶片努力。 
子計畫二擬進行三大研究議題：(1)建立以
RFID 為基礎之製造系統資訊收集平台。(2)建立以
RFID 為基礎之製造系統單元控制器。(3)發展以
RFID 為基礎之在製品管制追蹤(WIP Tracking)控
制機制。第三年重點為在第一年已經建置以 RFID
為主之彈性製造單元上發展生產線管理之應用。
已完成之具體工作成果為(1) 在台北科技大學建
置完成以 RFID 為主之彈性製造系統。(2)測試將生
產控制所需在製品完全寫入 RFID 標籤中(3)測試
與智慧型推論系統之整合。(4)發展 PDA 與彈性製
造系統結合之應用。 
子計畫三主要發展一個以無線射頻識別
(RFID)為基礎的智慧型遠端診斷及維修系統，包
括：(1) 第一年-整合 RFID 技術與使用嵌入式
WinCE .NET 為作業系統之 PDA 元件，融入多感
測器融合技術及設計資料發送/接收器之配置;(2) 
第二年-智慧型遠端診斷維修系統之發展;(3) 第三
年-知識管理系統的發展。 
透過第二年所建置的智慧型遠端診斷維修系
統，利用 RFID 技術為基的製造系統，整合多種資
料探勘方法建構即時重排程系統及決策支援系
統。 
子計畫四旨在以半導體產業為研究平台進行
三大研究議題：(1)建立以 SCOR 與 RFID 為基礎
之供應鏈績效監督指標；(2)建構描述供應鏈行為
的監督模式；(3)發展以 RFID 為基礎的控制機制。
第三年的重點在於結合 RFID 所提供的資訊與第
二年所提出的層級監督模式，發展以前端為基礎
之半導體供應鏈監控模式。已完成之具體的工作
成果分為(1)建構以前端為主之二層級監控模式；
(2) 發展 CONWIP 控制方式與模式求解；(3)設計
模擬情境與進行模式比較。 
經由模式驗證結果可有下列結論：本研究以
層級在製存貨取代階段在製存貨作為監控上界，
使整體供應鏈系統於在製存貨量較低的情況下同
時具有較佳的服務水準。 
關鍵詞：電子標籤、塑膠晶片、奈米碳管電晶體、
有機薄膜電晶體、無線射頻辨識、單元控制器、
在製品管制追蹤、智慧型決策支援系統、個人數
位助理、診斷、知識管理、派工法則、決策支援、
半導體供應鏈、監控機制、層級在製存貨。 
 
Abstract 
This project intends to develop the RIFD tag, 
the RFID system integration environment, the 
RFID-based maintenance and diagnostics, and the 
RFID-based supply chain monitoring and control. 
Then, the system will be applied to semiconductor 
industry. 
 4
carbon nanotubes (SWNT) and multi-walled carbon 
nanotubes (MWNT). Secondly, we measure the 
curve of current and voltage. When gate voltage is 
less than 4V, the channel began to form and the 
transistor turned on in Fig.1(a). If the gate voltage 
increases, the current of drain-source will be bigger, 
in Fig.1. Besides, the operative current is about 
several micro ampere and the off current is less than 
1 nano ampere, the on/off ration is about 104. 
According the measurement and principle, we can 
deduce the carbon nanotube flied effect transistors 
(CNFETs) are p-type CNFETs.  In the future, we 
will try to transfer our CNT-FET to the PI layer. 
 
(a)                  (b) 
Figure 1 I-V curve of CNFET 
 
3.1.3 Accomplishment 3: All Ink-jet Printed 
Plastic Electronics 
In this study, we focus on the development and 
improvement of the all ink-jet printed process for 
better electrical performance on fabricating OTFT.  
The homemade ink-jet printing system is shown in 
Fig 2(a), and the droplet formation cycle of taken is 
shown in Fig. 2(b). The system comprise of a 
drop-on-demand printhead, a back pressure controller, 
a ink reservoir, 2 axes motorized positioning stages, 
printhead driving electronics, and a droplet imaging 
system.  The whole system is controlled by a PC 
running a control program developed with LabVIEW.  
The drop-on-demand piezoelectric driving printhead 
is manufactured by MiroFab Co. Ltd, and the model 
name is MJ-ATP®, which is designed for working in 
room temperature with low viscosity (<20cPs).  A 
two-axes motorize stage system with a CCD camera 
are combined for the precision positioning and also 
the alignment for different printing layers.  Another 
CCD camera with synchronized LED illumination 
with the printhead driving waveform are used as a 
stroboscope to monitoring the cycle of droplet 
formation and ensure the stability and reliability of 
the printing process. 
 
Figure 2 (a) The homemade ink-jet printing 
platform (b) The formation of the droplet taken by 
imaging system. 
 
The bottom gate and bottom contact structure 
was chosen for the all ink-printed OTFT fabrication. 
Heat-resistant and chemistry-resistant polyimide (PI) 
tape is chosen as the flexible substrate.  When 
sticking on a glass plate the roughness of the PI layer 
can be around 10nm, and that would be important for 
the OTFT device structure fabrication.  The material 
of the gate electrode is 20% conducting polymer 
poly(3,4- ethylenedioxythiophene) / poly 
(styrenesulfonate) (PEDOT/PSS) aqueous dispersion 
dissolved in water, and 1% ethylene glycol (EG) are 
added to enhance the conductivity in around 100 
S/cm.  The viscosity and contact angel of the 
solution between substrate were 2.46cP and 56°, 
respectively.  The Orifice diameter of printhead 
used on gate electrode printing is 30μm, which can 
achieve printing resolution in around 10μm.  Single 
line pattern is printed as the gate electrode to reduce 
the parasitic capacitance of the device, and the width 
is 100μm with 2500 droplets per mm2.  The gate 
electrode is then baked for 1 hour in 100°C to 
improve the chemistry -resistance of the conducting 
film.  The material for the insulation layer is 3.5% 
poly (vinylphenol) (PVP) and 0.35% cross-link agent 
poly (melamine-co-formaldehyde) (PMF) dissolved 
in hexanol.  The viscosity and contact angel of the 
solution between substrate are 8.8cP and 10°, 
respectively.  The Orifice diameter of printhead 
used for insulation layer printing is 80μm.  A 
squared shaped pattern, 800μm by 800μm, is printed 
as the insulation layer. For better insulation, two 
layers of PVP are printed and the droplets density is 
around 500 droplets per 500mm, and the thickness is 
around 700nm.  The PVP layer is then baked at 
200°C for 10min for solvent evaporation and 
cross-linking of PVP.  The same PEDOT/PSS 
solution as the gate electrode is used to print drain 
and source electrode as well.  Two parallel lines are 
printed as drain and source electrodes.  The fine 
spacing between the two parallel lines has to be well 
controlled for narrower channel length.  The best 
resolution printed with the 30μm orifice is around 
10μm.  Thus, the channel area between the two 
printed electrodes is 20μm and channel width is 
400μm controlled by the length of parallel lines.  
The organic semiconductor active material is 98.5% 
high regioregularity poly (3-hexylthiophene) 
(rr-P3HT) purchased from Sigma-Aldrich, and 
p-xylene is chosen over volatile chloroform as 
solvent to prevent clogging of printhead.  However, 
P3HT shows poor solubility in p-xylene and was 
always precipitated around the reservoir in room 
temperature, and then cause failure of the printing 
process.  To resolve this problem, a heated reservoir 
is used while printing P3HT.  Higher temperature 
does prevent the precipitation of P3HT in p-xylene, 
and also help for better film formation.  Moreover, 
the organic semiconductor active layer for forming 
the conducting channel is only several nm above the 
insulator, and thus thinker layer will not help for the 
field effect but degrade the off-current by leakage 
between drain and source electrodes.  Reducing the 
 6
Figure 6  RFID based FMS in NTUT 
 
3.2.2 Accomplishment 2: Control FMS based on 
WIP data written on RFID tags. 
In the second year, we have constructed 
modular Colored Petri Models for equipment (CNC), 
material handling system (mobile robot), Loading 
station, unloading machine and RFID reader. In the 
third year, we attempt to write attributes (color of 
places) of CPN model into RFID tags. The updated 
status of pallet (i.e. colored token of CPN model) is 
written to pallet’s tag by means of reader when the 
operation is completed in each virtual equipment. 
The content of colored tokens of CPN model and 
related RFID tag content are listed as shown in Table 
1. Some reading and writing screens shown in 
monitor screen of cell controller are shown in Figure 
7-8. 
 
Table 1. CPN colored token vs. RFID tag content 
 
 
Figure 7  RFID writing status 
 
Figure 8 
 
 
3.2.3 Accomplishment 3: Integrate with Intelligent 
Decision Support System. 
We have integrated our RFID based FMS with 
Intelligent Decision Support Sytsem (IDSS), 
developed by ITRI. Cell controller sends all shop 
floor status to IDSS, and IDSS feedbacks inferring 
results (i.e. RGV from to command) to cell controller. 
IDSS runs over JESS (Java Expert System Shell) 
which is a rule engine and scripting environment 
written entirely in Sun's JavaTM language. The JESS 
shell provides the basic elements of an expert system 
which includes a fact-list which provides a template 
for both knowledge and application, a knowledge 
base that contains all the rules and an inference 
engine which controls overall execution of rules. The 
interaction between FMS cell controller and IDSS is 
shown in Figure 9. 
 
Inferring engine SystemFMS
Timer
Check Load OP Status
Check Machine OP Status
Check INS OP Status
Check RGV Status
Dispatching Rule
Real time animation
RGV Real Action
Timer
Start Inferring
Inferring
Inferring Complete
RGV
From-To
FMS Status
Figure 9  Interaction between FMS and IDSS
 
We also compare the performance of FMS with 
FMS+IDSS. It is shown in Figure 10. By this figure, 
we find that the machine utilization based on 
dispatching by our cell controller is better than 
dispatching by IDSS. This is because the 
communication and handshaking between cell 
controller and IDSS cause time lag that may miss the 
time of optimal decision. 
  
 8
 
Figure 13  On-line rescheduling mechanism
 
Procedure of Training SVM Classification Model 
The overall procedure of training SVM 
classification model is shown in Figure 14. After a 
long run of simulation, each attribute value of every 
intrabay is collected. Traditional scheduling methods 
make decisions based on the explicit system 
attributes directly, such as machine utilizations, job 
tardiness, etc. In summary, six local attributes for the 
intrabay and one global attribute for the fab are 
chosen as follows: the mean utilization of the 
machines in the intrabay, the number of the jobs in 
the intrabay, the mean sojourn time of the jobs in the 
intrabay, the mean remaining processing time of the 
jobs in the intrabay, the mean slack time of the jobs 
in the intrabay, the mean tardiness time of the jobs in 
the intrabay, and the level of machine breakdown in 
the fab. 
In order to deploy different dispatching rules to 
different intrabays, k-Means is used for clustering the 
intrabays of the fab. In particular, the reason for 
clustering is to reduce the search space and 
simulation time. That is, if there are 23 intrabays in 
the fab and these intrabays are clustered to 5 clusters, 
and then the search space is reduced from 723 
(2.737x1019) to 75 (1.6807x104). 
Then GA is employed for searching 
dispatching rule sets which promote better 
performance. With attributes as the system conditions 
corresponding to dispatching rules, the SVM 
classifier is constructed as the scheduler. The 
dispatching rules used in this paper are selected from 
previous researches and described in Table 2. 
Figure 14  Procedure of training SVM classification 
model. 
 
Table 2. Dispatching rules 
 
Procedure of Building ANFIS Prediction Model 
The entire procedure for building ANFIS 
prediction model is shown in Figure 15. After 
observation of a long run simulation, the period 
between two decision points is set as 12 days. 
Between two decision points, the length of the 
scheduling intervals (SI) may be 1 day, 2 days, 3 
days, 4 days, 6 days or 12 days. For example, if SI is 
2 days, scheduling will be taken six times between 
these two decision points. A sketch map is shown in 
Figure 16. 
For the sake of on-line deciding the scheduling 
intervals between two decision points, six ANFIS 
prediction models are built, as shown in Figure 15. 
Performance values of previous four-time scheduling 
are fed as the prediction model’s input, and then the 
performance of following 12-day scheduling result is 
predicted. Predicted performance values of six 
ANFIS prediction models are compared to decide the 
actual scheduling intervals between these two 
decision points. 
 10
 
Figure 20  Structural complexity of knowledge with 
update 
Decision Scenarios 
Four scenarios are provided to support decision 
making. The first offers decision makers to decide 
product mix ratio with the concept of TOC. One key 
idea of TOC is that the system’s constraints (also 
called bottleneck resources or capacity constraint 
resources, CCRs) determine the system’s 
performance and should be the focus of management 
attention. In order to acquire the highest profit 
attainable, the CCR must be fully utilized. TOC 
approach decides the product type and the 
corresponding quantity to produce a given market 
potential. 
The second scenario can control job arrival rate 
through the monitoring of WIP. And then the third 
one supplies to decide dispatching rules in terms of 
the knowledge extracted from the method proposed 
in section A. The last scenario aids preventive 
maintenance with the information of each machine’s 
PM schedule. All these scenarios are through web 
pages to achieve knowledge sharing. 
 
 
3.4 Subproject 4: Monitoring and Control of 
Semiconductor Supply Chains with RFID-based 
Information  
3.4.1 Accomplishment 1：Construct a forward 
echelon-based monitoring model 
The proposed scheme is to construct a forward 
two-echelon model with the goal of minimizing the 
echelon WIP inventory control limits under a target 
service level. The echelon WIP concept is different 
from the traditional stage inventory. In the traditional 
stage view, the WIP is monitored and controlled in 
each stage. However, echelon view considers all WIP 
inventory from the certain stage to the final stage. 
Their relationship is shown in Figure 21. 
 
Figure 21  Definitions of stage and backward 
echelon inventory 
However, most of the echelon inventory 
control has been focused on the logistics and 
distribution systems, in which lead time is usually 
fixed without considering of characters of production 
and different power of each member. In addition, the 
echelon is usually counted backward as shown in 
Figure 21. These assumptions might not be 
applicable under a semiconductor supply chain, in 
which lead time is dependent on the factory loadings 
and the control power is usually stronger in the front 
stage (fab). As a result, the first task of this research 
is to extend the backward echelon-based inventory 
control method to a forward echelon-based inventory 
concept considering the dynamic lead time effect. 
The schematic of forward echelon inventory and 
stage inventory is shown in Figure 22. 
Figure 22  Definitions of stage and forward 
echelon inventory 
Index 
t : Time index 
n : Stage index of each production 
m : Echelon index 
Input variables 
tD : The demands in the period t and 
follow ),(~ 2σμNDt  
1θ : The correlation coefficient of Dt and Dt+1  
nX : The variable that presents the sum of demands 
which stage n needs to satisfy in the future 
production lead time  
ρ : The correlation coefficient of 21 , XX  
nl : The production lead time of stage n 
B : The expected number of blocking parts 
α : Service level α is defined as the fraction of 
periods that demands can be totally satisfied 
when the WIP is below the monitor limit  
γ : Service level γ is defined as the fraction of 
average cumulative backorders in the system 
divided by average current demand  
Decision variables 
mZ : The standardized mS  on the basis of 2X  
Other symbols 
nST : The WIP inventory limit of stage n  
mS : The WIP inventory limit of echelon m form the 
echelon view  
mS : The WIP inventory limit of echelon m form the 
results of stage view 
M : 
)( 22
1
XVar
μ  
V : 
)(
)(
2
2
1
1
2
1
XVar
XVar  
A : The algebras for from V,ρ  
( )ζψ ;,⋅⋅ :The cumulative density function of the 
standardized bivariate normal with the 
 12
service level of smaller echelon is set higher than the 
overall required service level. This is due to the fact 
that production time of the front-end member is loner 
than that of downstream stage in semiconductor 
supply chain. Therefore, setting higher internal 
service level results in a lower blocking probability 
and minimizes overall WIP. Consequently, lower 
WIP monitoring limits can be obtained by setting 
higher service level  However, the increase of 
service level of smaller echelons would not only 
result in the increase of WIP monitoring limits but 
also the cycle times.  
In solving the forward two-echelon control 
model, the following heuristic is adapted: 
Step 1: solve the equation  
⎪⎪⎩
⎪⎪⎨
⎧
+++++
=⋅⋅+⋅
≤+++
=⋅⋅+⋅
−
−
−
−
otherwisexbbax
ll
xifxbax
ll
ici
DD
iici
DD
)()()(
)(
)(
)(
212
1
212
1
11
1
11
1
αφββα
σαφμ
ωαφβα
σαφμ
 
for each echelon to obtain the initial lead time as 
model input. 
Step 2: solve γ  constraint by setting ( ) VZ ⋅Φ= α1  
as initial value. Then, increase 1Z  and calculate the 
contribution. If VZ ⋅≥ 5.31 , set VZ ⋅= 5.31  and 
then solve the equation again to obtain the new 2Z . 
If contribution less than ε , then stop increasing 
the 1Z . 
Step 3: use the result from step 2 to check if the α  
constraint is satisfied. If α  constraint is satisfied, 
go to Step 4. Else, solve α  constraint to obtain 
2Z  with fixed 1Z . 
Step 4: Calculate the WIP monitoring limit (
mS ) from 
the standardized limit. Check the corresponding cycle 
times by the following equation for each echelon. 
⎩⎨
⎧
++++
≤++
otherwisexbbaxN
xifxbaxN
ii
iii
))(,)((
),(
212212
1111
ββα
ωβα  
If the corresponding cycle time (production view) is 
smaller than the lead time (demand view) in the 
model, the WIP monitoring limit is obtained. 
Otherwise, the corresponding cycle time of echelon 
exceeds the lead time, increase the lead time by one  
and go to step 1. 
 
3.4.3 Accomplishment 3：Design scenarios and 
conduct simulations to compare the performance 
of different control schemes 
A simulation model is built according to the 
assumptions of the model. Next, simulations are 
performed with both monitoring and control schemes 
together. The CONWIP control rule is adopted in 
which a lot can’t be released whenever either stage or 
echelon inventory limits are reached. The WIP 
monitoring limits for simulations are shown in Table 
3 and results of the simulation are shown in Table 4. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Analytical WIP inventory limits 
 
Table 4. Simulation performance results 
 
As shown in Table 4, with a lower supply chain 
inventory, the proposed forward two-echelon 
inventory monitoring and control method can achieve 
a higher service level than the stage-based inventory 
monitoring and control method. This result is due to 
the fact that the control and monitoring based on 
forward echelon inventory utilizes the global 
information of the whole supply chain while the 
traditional method uses only local information to 
control and monitor. A careful study of the 
simulation results further confirm that stage 1’s 
inventory in the forward two-echelon model has a 
higher inventory position and results in a lower 
blocking probability. This is the idea of increasing 
the internal service level to lower the overall WIP 
monitoring limit. 
