一、 前言 
 
  近年來，由於工業的發展及經濟的起飛，
促使人類享有更優渥的物質享受，相對的地
球生態環境在人類追求經濟利益行為下，環
境保護的重要性被嚴重地忽略，每當狀況
（油污染、核污染、化學污染、空氣污
染……）發生時往往付出可觀的環境生態成
本，衍生出許多錯綜複雜待解決之環保問
題。自西元 1931 年起氟氯碳化合物
（ CFCs） 、氫氟氯碳化合物（HCFCs）及
氫氟碳化合物（HFCs）等冷媒素材陸續被開
發已來，短短數十年之使用結果，已造成了
南極上空之臭氧層的破洞、溫室效應、紫外
線輻射量增加、冰山溶解而導致海平面上升
等問題，有鑑於此，世界各國也於 1985 年
起陸續簽訂「維也納協定」、「蒙特婁議定
書」及「京都議定書」等公約，明令管制會
導致地球環境破壞之物質的發展或限用時
程[1-2]。地球生態環境遭受破壞已成為事
實，面對綠色紀元之到來，企業倘若未善盡
環保之責，將會面臨國際社會之制裁及綠色
環保團體之議論，因此，環境管理勢必成為
永續經營發展之道，唯有持續不斷的研發創
新，開發更具環保之新型替代冷媒或無污染
的冷凍方法，將是未來相關研究單位所應積
極努力之目標。目前一般所使用的冷凍或空
調系統，是利用冷媒（氣體）在加壓與降壓
的循環過程中會對外界有西熱與放熱的現
象，而達到溫控的效果。傳統使用之冷媒，
如氟氯碳化合物（CFCs）、氫氟氯碳化合物
（HCFCs）及氫氟碳化合物（HFCs）等，使
用之結果皆會對地球生態環境造成負面之
影響[2]。面對綠色工業之新思維，企業唯
具前瞻性之願景，以發展綠色環保產品為宗
旨，才是永續經營之道，西元 1998 年 Berry 
& Rondinelli[3]曾指出，企業應採取預先
評估環境責任對企業經營所造成之影響，為
了契合此綠色潮流，開發綠色創新技術，以
減低環境責任對企業所造成之負面影響，已
是各國政府、企業或研發單位於開發新替代
冷媒技術之同時，所需審慎考量之重點所
在。磁冷凍技術即是產業面臨環境之劇變
下，所孕育而生之創新環保產物。 
 
二、 基本理論 
 
2.1 磁熱效應的原理 
由磁性粒子構成的固體磁性材料，再受
到外磁場的作用而被磁化時，材料系統的磁
有序度加強（磁熵減小），而對外放出熱量；
再將其去磁時，則材料系統的磁有序度下降
（磁熵增大），會向外界吸收熱量。這種磁
性粒子系統在磁場的施加與去除過程中所
呈現的熱現象即稱為磁熱效應（Magneto 
caloric Effect，MCE）。以熱力學來說，磁
熱效應是一種磁性材料通過外加磁場後，使
得磁熵發生改變，進而產生溫度的變化，而
磁熵越大磁熱效應就更加明顯。 
 
2.2 磁熱效應的理論公式 
在一定溫度 T 和磁場 H 下，自旋體系
的磁熵 由 Maxwell 熱力學關係式[4]
可表示為: 
),( HTSM
∫ ∂∂
=−=Δ
H
H
MMM
dHTHTM
TSHTSHTS
0
0 ]/),([
)0,(),(),(
μ
       (2.1)
式中的 M 為磁化強度，由順磁性物質的
Curie-Weiss 可得: 
)/(/ CTTCHM −==λ              (2.2) 
可得出順磁性材料的磁熵(entropy)變為: 
])(2/[),( 220 CM TTHCHTS −−=Δ μ          (2.3) 
其中, 為居里常數，令KJJNgC B 3/)1(22 += μ
)1( += JJgP 為有效波爾磁子數，則上式可
以表示為: 
])(6/[),( 22220 CBM TTKHNPHTS −−=Δ μμ    (2.4) 
其中 為居里溫度,N 為單位體積內所含的
磁性離子數，K為玻爾磁曼常數，
CT
0μ 為真空
磁導率， Bμ 為玻爾磁子，g 為朗德因子，J
為總角量量子數。由(2.4)式可得知要使順
磁性物質的 具有較大的數值，可以),( HTSM
 2
的磁熱反應，當到達同樣達溫度時，所花的
時間相差 2~3 倍，所以若能有效增加磁場的
強度，磁熱效應的反應勢必更加劇烈。 
    磁熱特性量測[8](圖 10)，在試片磁場
變化前溫度紀錄為 ，磁場變化結束後紀錄
為 ，則可用參數 （ ）來
描述材料的磁熱效應現象。當試片退磁後，
磁序由原本激磁時的整齊排列而變的散
亂，此時的試片開始吸收熱量，所以退磁後
的溫度會低於激磁時的溫度。 
IT
FT TΔ IF TTT −=Δ
 
五、 結論 
本研究所使用的磁工質材料，可適用於
磁致冷系統。磁熱效應所需要的磁場源不使
用消耗電力的電磁場，而使用永久性的磁鐵
來設計磁場源，不僅機構簡化並可節省能源
的消耗，而磁場強度不足的問題，可藉由適
當磁路設計來增加磁場強度。本研究的主要
結果歸納如: 
(1)使用永久性磁鐵來作為磁場源，可經由
磁路設計增強磁場強度，經軟體分析本研
究所設計的改良後的磁場源，確實在磁力
強度上有明顯的增強。 
(2)經由實驗結果，得知在同樣的受磁面積
下，片狀試片的反應時間優於塊狀的試
片。 
(3)磁場強度的大小，對於磁熱現象的反應
時間有很大的影響。磁場強度越強，Gd
合金材料的磁熱效應越明顯。 
(4) 分析實驗結果，得知本研究所使用的 Gd
合金適合做磁工質材料，在室溫下的磁熱
效應反應顯著，適合作為常溫磁致冷系統
的磁工質材料。 
 
六、 參考資料 
1. 中哲（2001），「冷媒於冷凍空調系統
之應用介紹」，HCFC 替代冷媒技術研討會，
經濟部工業局，高雄。 
2. 吳仁彰（1993），「氟氯碳化物的消除」，
科學月刊，第二百八十五期，第62-64 頁。 
3. Berry, M. A. and D. A. Rondinelli 
(1998), “ Proactive 
corporateenvironmental management: a 
new industrial revolution,＂ Academy 
ofManagement Executive, Vol. 12, No. 2, 
pp.38-50. 
4.Yu Bingfeng U., Zhang Yan,Research on 
performance of regenerative room 
temperature magnetic refrigeration 
cycle, International Journal of 
Refrigeration 1348~1357 
 , 9 October 2006 
5.Yunhui Xu,Thermomagnetic properties 
of ferromagnetic perovskite manganites, 
Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic 
Materials 242–245  698–700,2002  
6. Vitalij K. Pecharsky, Karl A. 
Gschneidner Jr. Advanced 
magnetocaloric materials: What does the 
future hold?, International Journal of 
Refrigeration 1239-1249,11 September 
2006 
7.B.F. Yu, Q. Gao, B. Zhang,Review on 
research of room temperature magnetic 
Refrigeration, International Journal 
of Refrigeration 26 622–636, 8 April 
2003 
8.黄苍碧 付浩 陈云贵,磁热效应的直接测
量及装置, 制冷与空调,第4 期2002 年 
 
七、 計畫成果自評 
    本研究計畫在執行完成後，其具體成 
果與效益如下： 
 4
 6
 
 
(圖十七) 磁熱特性量測 
   
(圖 10) 磁熱特性量測 
(圖 7)VSM 所測的磁滯曲線 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(圖 8) 不同厚度試片的熱效應量測 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (圖 9)不同磁場在環境溫度 5°C 下的熱效應
量測  
  
 
 
 
 
(5)Processing of New and Advanced Materials 
(6)Surface Engineering 
(7)Nano Technology 
(8)Other Related Processes 
    經由各場次之參與，讓筆者可以了解到目前世界各國有關製造加工技術之發展趨勢與
特色。在全球化生活中，包括交通、通訊與健康相關產業的商品製造，均脫離不了金屬成
形技術。現代之生產技術更需要金屬成形的技術與知識。但台灣對於金屬成形產業卻被視
為傳統產業，不被重視，造成相關產業不斷外移發展；反觀在歐美、日本、南韓與中國大
陸卻看到金屬成形在現代與未來之重要性，值得我們借鏡與深思。又韓國的國民生產毛額
已超過台灣，在金屬成形之研發不論在產業界或學術界均有大量的人力及經費投入，而大
陸的研發實力亦相當可觀。因此，台灣的未來需要有更多的經費與人員投入製造科學領域
之研發創新與產品設計上，以維持台灣製造業的競爭優勢。最後，誠摯地感謝國科會在經
費上之補助，使筆者能順利參加本屆國際學術會議。 
 
 
Theoretical models and numerical methods are developed to predict the polishing result of 
the abrasive medium during AFM [13-16]. The material removal rate and surface roughness are 
estimated using the finite element method [13, 14]. The active grain density on the medium 
surface is also determined by stochastic simulation [15]. This method can be easily extended to 
simulate the surface generation in AFM. Furthermore, the material deformation produced by the 
abrasive is developed to predict the force models of AFM [16]. And the scratching experiments 
are used to study the material removal mechanism in the abrasive process. However, the abrasive 
mechanism in AFM will have clear description if the flow situation of abrasive media can be 
found. But there are no researches to study the flow of the abrasive media in polishing process. 
Therefore, a non-Newtonian flow is used to simulate the motion of the abrasive media, and to 
analyze the polished effect of the different abrasive gels in AFM.  
 
2. METHOD 
 
Since the abrasive geometries are not uniform, the flow path (or motion) of each abrasive in 
the media can not predict exactly in AFM. So it is hard to describe the polishing mechanism of 
AFM by the micro viewpoint. Polymer gels are always used as the base material of the abrasive 
media in AFM. Since these gels are semi-solid, they can easily deform and mix uniformly with 
all kinds of abrasive. And they must have high viscosity and large deformation ability to produce 
good polished effect in the machining. Therefore, the behavior of abrasive media in AFM can 
look like as non-Newtonian flows in the macro viewpoint. The mathematical and finite volume 
model will be developed by CFD-ACE+ in the following. 
 
2.1 Power law 
Abrasive media are the key elements that will control the polishing results in AFM. So the 
abrasive behavior can be predicted if the motion of the abrasive media in AFM can be found 
exactly. The media are the polymer gels mixed with the abrasives and have low flow property in 
usual. The viscosities of these media dominate the flow property that will control the abrasive 
effects in AFM. But the viscosity will change when the working temperature is different in AFM 
[6, 8]. So the relationship between the viscosity and the temperature must be set up in the 
mathematical model. Power law of the non-Newtonian flow shows the relation of the viscosity, 
the shear rate and the temperature in CFD-ACE+ software. Power law can clearly describe the 
effect of the temperature on the viscosity in AFM. Equation of the power law is presented as 
following: 
cTaTaeK γµµ &)(0 221 −=                                     (1) 
where  Taanc 43 )ln(1 ++−= γ&                    (2) 
And   µ = viscosity of abrasive media 
μ0 = Zero shear rate viscosity 
r&  = Local calculated shear rate  
n  = Power law index 
Τ  = Local calculated temperature 
K, a 1, a 2, a 3, a 4 = fluid properties of abrasive media 
 
2.2 Abrasive media 
The rheological properties of the abrasive media play an important role to find the good 
surface roughness in the complex holes. In this study, a pure silicone rubber (P-Silicone) and 
silicone rubber with additives (A-Silicone) are chosen as the media. In general, P-Silicone is 
 
2.4 Procedure  
There are two procedures in this study. First process uses the non-Newtonian flow to 
simulate the abrasive medium going through the chain hole by CFD-ACE+. In this case, different 
abrasive media are utilized to see the flow results in the chain holes. The extrusion pressure is 
3.45 Mpa and back pressure of hydraulic cylinder is 2.07 Mpa in AFM. Working temperature of 
abrasive medium is set at 27oC. Two step functions of velocity are set to simulate the flow of A-
Silicone and P-Silicone in the up and down motion. Equations of the velocity are presented as 
following: 
11)-STEP(T0.003T)-STEP(100.003V ×+×−=             (3) 
T)-STEP(0.60.058  T)-STEP(0.50.058 V ×+×−=            (4) 
Where equation (3) is A-Silicone velocity and equation (4) is P-Silicone velocity in the 
simulation and T is the time step. The coefficients 0.003 (m/sec) and 0.058 (m/sec) in front of 
equations are the average velocities of the abrasive media in AFM. The abrasive medium moves 
30 mm in 10 time steps of half cycle. Since P-Silicone has the high velocity in AFM, so each 
time step is set at 0.05 second. And A-Silicone move slowly in polishing process, therefore each 
time step is set at 1 second. 
 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
 
The main purpose of this research is to develop the numerical method which can predict the 
flow of abrasive media in the complex hole. In order to find the relationship between the motion 
of the abrasive medium and the roughness on the hole surface in AFM. Velocities, pressures, 
strain rates and shear forces of the abrasive medium will be found in this case. And use these 
results to explain the roughness in different position on the chain hole.  
 
3.1 Coefficients of power law 
For obtaining the coefficients of power law, some rheological property of the abrasive media 
must be found. In this study, rheological equipment is utilized to find the effects of the shear 
rates on the media viscosities. Figure 2 shows the relationship between the viscosities and the 
shear rates of these media. Working temperature 27oC is closed to the polishing temperature in 
AFM. The result shows that the A-Silicone has higher viscosity than the P-Silicone in shear rate 
test. And the viscosities are decreased with increasing the shear rates. The coefficients of the 
equations (1) and (2) can be calculated from the data of Fig. 2. These coefficients are showed in 
the table 1. 
 
10
100
1000
10000
100 200 500 800 1000 1500 2000
Shear rate (1/ S)
V
is
co
si
ty
 (P
a*
 S
)
P-Silicone
A-Silicone
 
3.2.2 Strain rates and shear forces 
Fig. 4 indicates the strain rates of the abrasive media in the flow motion. The results present 
that no matter what kind of abrasive media are used, the strain rates are large between the narrow 
cross section. But the strain rates of A-Silicone have the larger variance than P-Silicone. It means 
the abrasive media can produce huge deformations in AFM. These deformations will generate 
large abrasive forces in the narrow cross section of the chain hole. Because the step function of 
velocity is used in AFM, the shear forces are almost the same with positive and negative sign. 
Therefore, Z axis shear forces are showed only positive values in the half cycle. These shear 
forces in different positions of the chain hole are shown in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6. These figures reveal 
that A-Silicone can make the large shear forces (magnitude order: 10-2 N) in the simulation, but 
P-Silicone only creates the small shear force (magnitude order: 10-4 N). These results indicate 
that A-Silicone has a good polished effect in AFM. Moreover, point 1 in the narrow cross section 
will be polished by large shear force in both abrasive media. But there is obvious difference 
between position 1 and other positions when A-Silicone is used as abrasive medium. So the 
polished effect will quite different between position 1 and other positions in A-Silicone. 
 
 
(a) Strain rates of A-silicone 
 
(b) Strain rates of P-silicone 
Fig. 4. Simulation results of strain rate 
 
0.00
0.01
0.01
0.02
0.02
0.03
0.03
0.04
0.04
0.05
0.05
0 2 4 6 8 10 1
Time step of simulation
Sh
ea
r f
or
ce
 ( 
N
)
2
Pt. 1
Pt. 2
Pt. 3
 
Fig. 5. The effect of time step of simulation on shear force (A-Silicone) 
