1. Introduction 
   1.1 Background 
At the present day, the portable electronic devices such as mobile phones, 
personal digital assistants (PDA), or digital cameras are the emerging market of the 
electronic devices, even called the daily essentials. In general, the operating time or 
standby time of the portable devices all depends on the battery capacity. The issues 
of the power distribution did not actually concern the electronic designer in the past, 
because all the circuits at the time are not operating at the extreme high frequency 
like today. With the advance of the chip performance, the operating frequency and 
power consumption are rising briskly nowadays. But there is no exciting advance in 
the battery technology. Now we need a solution to bridge the gap. [1] 
The designs of Power management IC are good solutions in this issue [2]. Power 
management IC is an efficient approach that transfers different supply voltage levels 
to the system-on-chip (SoC) application. Therefore we can make use of energy in an 
electronic system more efficiently. Then, we can extend the employing time of a 
battery in a SoC system. In some potable devices, the role of the power management 
IC is necessary even that there is no need to deliver different voltage levels. The 
reason is that the function of the power management IC is to provide efficient and 
stable supplying voltage in case of load variations.  
Furthermore, the size and weight of these power devices are the other important 
problems for power management IC designer. The miniaturization of the power 
modules and the reduction of the external components are essential in the portable 
devices. Therefore, the trend is to focus on the CMOS implementation of power 
converters and insert the power modules into mix-signal ICs or SoC system. 
Now we could arrange the advantages and drawbacks of each converter shown 
in Table 1.  
Table 1.  The comparison of the power supply devices. 
 LDO Charge Pump Switching Regulator
Efficiency 
Bad 
 
Good 
output
input
V
V
η ≅ output
input
V
Gain V
η ≅ ⋅  
Best 
Up to 95% and 
average about 90% 
Cost 
Best Moderate 
Capacitor count, 
pin count, silicon 
area drive costs 
Most expensive 
Inductor and other 
external components 
drive costs 
 1
2 . The Description and Analysis 
of the Proposed Circuit 
 
2.1. The Compact Charge Pump 
 
As the mention in the chapter 1, the advantages of the charge pump are small, 
quiet, and moderately efficient. The small board size and small silicon area are the 
special competitive advantage in the power converters. It means the low fabrication 
cost, the slighter application, and the more integrated superiors. But the load 
capacity always concerns designers in the charge pumps because the size and 
quantity of the power switches will degrade the advantage in the small silicon area. 
So simplifying the control circuit to reserve the space for the large power switches 
is an important goal in the charge pump circuit design. There is a special method to 
integrate the bandgap circuit and power stage [3]. And the proposed circuit in this 
thesis is based on this method to improve its performance.  
 
2.1.1 Basic Operation 
Generally, the charge pumps consist of several blocks such as the bandgap 
circuit and the regulation circuit. If we want to reduce the quiescent current and the 
silicon area, it is a reasonable way to combine the bandgap reference with the 
regulation circuit. See the regulation scheme in Fig. .  
 
Fig. 1.  The basic operation of the compact charge pump.  
 3
lnREF BE TV V V N= +  ( 4 )
lnREF BE TV V V N
T T T
∂ ∂= +∂ ∂  ( 5 )
The factor, N, is the multiple of the bias current on the BJT with the same 
junction area, and vice versa. The term, ln N, should be kept at a constant value to 
eliminate the temperature coefficient of the reference voltage. In other words, we 
should let 0REFV T∂ ∂ =  in the equation ( 5 ) to make the reference independent of 
the outside temperature. 
In order to integrate the bandgap reference into the regulation circuit, the 
switched-capacitor bandgap reference is used in this paper. It is shown in Fig. .  
 
Fig. 3.  The switched-capacitor bandgap reference.  
In this circuit, it generates the two base-emitter voltage levels with negative 
temperature coefficient in the single PN junction by biasing the different current 
source. This structure could save the area and the power consumption. The BJT is 
biased by the current, I, during the phase one and it is biased by the multiple current, 
NI, during the phase two. Between these two phases, we will obtain the voltage 
difference, ΔVBE.  
1 2
ln ln
ln
BE BE BE
T T
S S
T
V V V
NI IV V
I I
V N
Δ = −
= −
=
 ( 6 )
The operation of this reference circuit is operated by the switched-capacitor 
network. During the phase two, the negative feedback loop is built up and the 
virtual ground is assumed. It is the “reset” mode and the BJT is biased by NI. When 
the switches are switched to the phase one, the circuit becomes the “amplify” mode 
and produces the reference voltage. The negative feedback loop is broken and the 
 5
2.1.3 Discussion about this Structure 
Although this converter has the compact size, the load capacity is the serious 
problem. In this design, the charge pump just provides maximum load current 6 mA. 
Such low load current is often in on-chip system to provide the different potential. 
This charge pump is integrated into the SOC chip so it is just an auxiliary power. 
The goal of this thesis is driving the white LED and the each path needs about 
20mA.  
Furthermore, it is very strange that this charge pump uses the external pumping 
capacitors. In general, the charge pumps which provide such low load current often 
uses the on-chip capacitors. Using the larger capacitor maybe reflects the slow 
frequency. The output resistance will be affected by the pumping capacitors and the 
switching frequency.  
Another issue is the peak current in the charge phase as shown in Fig. . Because 
the error signal on the output terminal of the OTA is a slowly increasing ramp, the 
charging current will be a square order current. This peak value will exceed the 
average load current too much and it will damage the reliability of the power 
dissipation.  
 
Fig. 5.  The gate voltage and drain current of GM.  
 
2.2  The Proposed Circuit 
As the mention in above section, using the external pumping capacitor and 
providing the low load current are not good enough. So the proposed circuit is tried 
to increase the load current and still use the compact switched-capacitor bandgap 
reference. The reference specification is a LED driver with the high load current and 
low output ripple.  
 7
 Fig. 7.  The voltage mode and current mode.  
We set the output pole as the dominate pole according to equation ( 13 ). 
Because the output impedance of the transistor is much larger than the load 
resistance, the output pole is dominated by the load resistance and the frequency 
range of the output pole is set at low frequency. In order to model the overall system, 
we should ensure that the impedance of the pumping capacitor is much smaller than 
output impedance of the transistor M3.  
1
O
pump
r
f C⋅  ( 13 )
So the output impedance of the system will be given by the transistor M3 and the 
pumping capacitor could be negligible. In the above discussion, the transistor M3 
must be operated in saturation region. We need to consider the maximum voltage 
across the pumping capacitor.  
( ) ( )4 3, ,pumpC MAX OUT DS M IN DSSAT MV V V V VΔ = − − − ,  ( 14 )
,LOAD MAX
pump
pump
I
C
f V⋅Δ  ( 15 )
The size of the transistor M3 could be considered with the above equations.  
So we could build up the output stage of the regulation circuit as Fig. . This 
stage provides the constant current ratio and it ensures the transistor M3 in saturation 
region.  
 9
the non-dominate pole. The additional zero here is produced to eliminate the 
non-dominate pole. Although the output impedance, rO1, is the extreme large and the 
additional zero is almost impossible at the same location, the zero could be set three 
to five times higher than the non-dominate pole at least. Because the non-dominate 
pole and the additional zero are fixed and the dominate pole will move at low 
frequency when changing load.  
 
2.2.2 Proposed Dual Phases Power Stage 
The multi phase output is an effective way to eliminate or reduce the output 
voltage ripple. As shown in Fig. , the different voltage waveforms could be summed 
by the output capacitor. If the waveforms are the opposite shapes, the variation on 
the DC level will be reduced.  
 
Fig. 10.  The scheme of the multi-phase output.   
The proposed circuit is the double phases output. Besides it could provide 
double load current, there is a more important reason for the ESR on the output 
capacitor. In general, the output ripple voltage for charge pump is:  
2
LOAD
ripple
OUT
IV
f C
= ⋅ ⋅  ( 22 )
But this expression will be modified when there is ESR on the output capacitor.  
2
2 OUT
LOAD
ripple LOAD C
OUT
IV I
f C
= + ⋅ ⋅⋅ ⋅ ESR  ( 23 )
Because the normal charge pump just exports the output current in the half 
period, the operation of charging and discharging on the output capacitor is very 
drastic. If using the double phases output, the output current of the charge pump will 
be continuous and the output ripple will be reduced. The proposed design is shown 
in Fig. . Because the limitation in the sensing method, there just is a regulated phase. 
But it still conforms to the small signal model in the above section. During the 
phase one, the closed loop regulation is built up. The module two pushes the correct 
current to load and the module one stores the same energy in the pumping capacitor. 
 11
( )CH M REF OUTI G V V= ⋅ −  ( 24 )
CH LOADI I=  ( 25 )
From the above equations, we can derive the below equation. 
LOAD
OUT REF REF
M
IV V V
G
= − ≅  ( 26 )
 
2.2.3 Operations of Proposed Charge Pump 
As shown in Fig. , the compact charge pump is proposed. It consists of the 
sensing stage, the current mirror buffer, and the power stage.  
Fig. 13.  The proposed circuit.   
In the phase two, the sensing stage is reset. The module one send the power to 
output and the module two stores the energy in the pumping capacitor. In the phase 
one, the sensing stage senses the difference between the output voltage and the 
designed reference voltage from the switched-capacitor bandgap reference. The 
error signal is sent to the current mirror buffer. The error voltage signal is 
transformed into the current signal and it biases the current mirror to set the power 
transistor in saturation region.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13
 Fig. 15.  When supply voltage is 2.9V, (a) the output voltage, (b) the load current. 
Fig.  shows the load transient waveform at four different supply voltage levels. We 
could find that the output transient drop at VDD=2.9V is larger than those at the other 
supply voltage levels.  
 
Fig. 16.  At four different supply voltages, (a) the output voltage, (b) the load current. 
 
3.2 Line Transient and Line Regulation 
Fig.  is the line transient waveform under 25mA loading. The output variation 
between 2.9V and 3.6V is 5.584mV and the line regulation is 7.977mV/V. The 
output variation between 3.6V and 4.3V is 6.481mV and the line regulation is 
9.258mV/V.  
 15
5.022
5.024
5.026
5.028
5.030
5.032
5.034
5.036
5.038
5.040
-50 -30 -10 10 30 50 70 90 110 130 150
Temperature
VO
UT
 
Fig. 19.  The output voltage vs. the temperature @VDD=3.6V and ILOAD=25mA. 
 
3.4 The Variation of all Corners 
Fig.  shows the output variation at all different corners. The load current is 25mA 
when the supply voltage is 3.6V. The average voltage is 5.036V at the corner TT. 
The higher voltage level is operated at the corner SS. The lower voltage level is 
operated at the corner FF. The center region in Fig.  is operated at the corner TT, SF, 
and FS. The variation between corner TT and SS is 6.825mV and the variation 
between corner TT and FF is 5.560mV. 
Fig. 20.  The output waveform at all corners. 
 
 17
Table 2.  The performance summary. 
Specification Performance 
Technology TSMC 0.35μm 3.3V/5V CMOS technology 
Pumping Capacitor 1μF 
Output Capacitor 10μF 
Switching Frequency 250 kHz 
Input Voltage 2.9 V~5.5 V 
Output Voltage 5 V 
Maximum Output Current 50 mA 
Output Ripple 6.473mV @ VIN=2.9V, ILOAD=50mA 0.294mV @ VIN=3.6V, ILOAD=1mA 
Load regulation 0.513 mV/mA 
Line regulation 9.258 mV/V 
Temperature Drift 16.64 ppm/  C°
 
4.  Measurement Results 
In order to verify the practicability of the description in [3], it is necessary to 
tape out the chip first. Fig.  is the layout scheme and Fig.  is the photo of the real 
chip. 
 
Fig. 22.  The layout scheme. 
 19
Fig. 25.  The load transient waveform. 
Fig.  to Fig.  are the data analyses of the measure results. Fig.  is the load regulation 
capability. Fig.  is the line regulation capability. Fig.  is the ratio of the current 
transformation. Fig.  is the relationship between the efficiency and input voltage. 
Fig.  is the temperature drift. Fig.  is the effect of the switching frequency. 
 
Fig. 26.  Output Voltage vs. Load Current 
 
Fig. 27.  Input Voltage vs. Output Voltage 
 21
Fig. 31.  Output Voltage vs. Frequency 
 
Fig. 32.  The final layout of the proposed circuit. 
 
5. Conclusion and Future Work 
Conclusion: 
A dual phase charge pump regulated by switched-capacitor based bandgap 
reference is present in this paper. The size of the regulated block in this structure is 
very small and the most area on silicon is the power device. It helps the design of 
the mini-size application and the consideration for the fabrication cost.  
The initial idea of the application is used for driving white LED. Because of the 
high efficiency of LED, more and more electronic devices use LED for lighting. In 
this demand, the high silicon area efficiency chip is more important. The white LED 
 23
 25
[7] B. R. Gregoire, “Switched capacitor voltage reference circuits using 
transconductance circuit to generate reference voltage,” U.S. Patent 6,819,163, 
Nov. 16, 2004. 
[8] U. Gatti, F. Maloberti, and G. Torelli, “A novel CMOS linear transconductance cell 
for continuous time filters,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Circuits Syst., May 1990, pp. 
1173–1176.  
[9] F. Bedeschi, et al. “A low-ripple voltage tripler,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Circuits 
Syst., 2006.  
[10] A. Cabrini, A. Fantini, and G. Torelli, “High-efficiency regulator for on-chip 
charge pump voltage elevators,” Electronics Letters, vol. 42, pp. 972-973, Aug. 
2006.  
[11] C. Boffino, et al. “High-efficiency control structure for CMOS flash memory 
charge pumps,” in IEEE Int. Symp. Circuits Syst., 2005, vol. 1, pp. 121-124.  
[12] “LTC3240 - 3.3V/2.5V Step-Up/Step-Down Charge Pump DC/DC Converter,” 
LTC3240 Datasheet, Linear Technology , Milpitas, CA, 2006. 
[13] E. Bayer, H. Schmeller, and G. Sporer, “Charge Pumps Become Differentiated,” 
Texas Instruments Germany, Freising, Germany, 2000.  
[14] “Regulated 200-mA High Efficiency Charge Pump DC/DC Converters,” 
TPS6012X Datasheet, Texas Instruments Incorporated, Dallas, TX, Aug. 2000.  
[15] E. Bayer and H. Schmeller, “Charge pump with Active Cycle regulation-closing 
the gap between linearand skip modes,” in IEEE 31st Annual Power Electronics 
Specialists Conf., 2000, vol. 3, pp. 1497-1502.  
[16] G. Thiele and E. Bayer, “Current mode charge pump: topology, modeling and 
control,” in IEEE 35st Annual Power Electronics Specialists Conf., 2004, vol. 5, 
pp. 3812-3817.  
 
blur 形成的原因以及該怎麼量測 Motion blur，第一篇 Motion-Blur Measurement 利用跟我們相
同的方式 impulse response，之後也利用了移動顯示的影像方法，更加去量測 motion blur，隨
後 Characterizing LCD Motion Color Artifacts Using Simulation Methods，跟以往不一樣是利用
Simulation 的方法去判讀 motion blur 的產生。 
 
z THURSDAY, May 24 
   第四天早上參觀廠商展示區，參展的廠商大部分都是韓國跟日本廠商，如：LG.PHILIPS、
FUJIFILM、SAMSUNG LCD，看到各大廠商展示非常漂亮的 LCD 面版以及 OLED 面版，從
超大型家用電視面版，或者小型供給數位相機或手機用的面版，所顯示的顏色都非常漂亮，
也看見了各廠商的最新顯示技術；下午去另一個會場聽了 LCDs for Mobile Application，聽了
Novel Signal-Cell-Gap Transflective LCD without Subpixel Separation，講解 TN-LCD 能傳遞的
每一個畫素以及一些部分畫素色彩會反彈，而產生了干擾，進而色彩誤差，他們報告了利用
同位電壓的情況下使得這些電子產品的視覺特性和反射顏色的干擾減小；另外 PVA 
Technologies for High Transmittance and High Contrast Ration in Mobile LCDs 利用 PVA 的技術
達到高效能低消耗的手機，可以達到非常高的對比以及利用很好的 LCD 透明度以降低功率消
耗。 
 
z FRIDAY, May 25 
    第五天早上先聽 Deriving LED Driving Signal for Area-Adaptive LED Backlight in 
High-Dynamic-Range Displays報告利用另外一種 de-convolution的動態調整有效的使得色彩線
性度大增；隨後台灣中華映管公司報告高速 RGB LED Backlight 電路的驅動，混合了數位的
基底因此可以較快的去驅動電路，利用很多 IC 去推動使得速度可以加快許多；接下來是由韓
國人報告 power 管理方面的主題，利用 dc-dc converter 的電源管理技術，讓 IC 去驅動每一塊
LED 面版的電流，並達到電流均衡，使得色彩均勻很多，並且有效率的管理；之後換我學生
上台報告我們的研究主題，並且有國外人士跟我們洽談一些合作事宜，隨後整理行李搭交通
工具去美國洛杉磯機場等待飛往台灣的飛機。 
 
二、與會心得 
    參加這次 Society for Information Display 之後，有了更多新的想法與新的創意。同時，參
與世界各國的展示面版技術也得到了更多想法以利日後的研發，並且在與世界各地的學者們
相互討論中，獲得莫大的助益以其啟發，對於往後的研究也會有一番新的思維。不單單於面
版架構以及為來材料的發展，甚至全新的驅動面版電路的實現，都有完整的介紹。報告者除
了來自學界的知名學者也有很多廠商提供更深入的市場分析資料，更包括來自於世界面版大
廠的資深工程師分享其實際遇到的問題及如何解決，在理論及實務方面都獲得極大的助益，
這些對於國內來說是非常重要的知識及經驗。 
    總而言之，經過這次課程，除了專業領域方面吸取到許多新知之外，在體會到國外優秀
學者研究精神及創新，經由良性競爭可以讓自己提出更多質量均優的論文。 
 
 
 
  
 
Fig. 1: System architecture for our proposed novel mixed color sequential 
(MCS) algorithm. 
 
 
(a) (b) 
  
(c) (d) 
Fig. 2. RGB backlight design architecture (a) RGB backlight panel is composed 
of 48 blocks. (b) Photo of actual RGB backlight module for 1366*768 32 inch 
LCD panel. (c) Color sequential pattern in our MCS algorithm. (d) Control 
circuits. 
2. Color breakup effects in conventional field 
sequential color display technique and 
motion blur effects in LCD display 
A. Color Breakup effects 
Owing to the separation of color fields, a image frame with 
different color fields, which located on different area of human 
retina, can not be viewed as a clear image with mixed color. 
The separation of different color fields is distinguished by 
human’s vision system from a mixed color image frame. As 
we know, this phenomenon is color breakup [5]. 
A moving object on FSC displays appears “rainbow effect” 
at the leading and tailing edges of the object. This effect 
named as “color breakup” (CBU) comes from sequential color 
techniques. Fig. 3 shows rainbow phenomenon caused by 
CBU effect. For a moving image, the sub-frames of moving 
objects are not plotted at the same spot for the smoothly 
moving retina. As a result, extra color fields are observed 
especially near the edges of the moving object. It is illustrated 
in Fig. 4 [6]. CBU is perceivable by vision systems where 
different sub-frame colors are observed separately. However, 
spatial and temporal variations can eliminate the CBU effect  
 
Fig.3. Rainbow effect. 
 
Fig. 4. Color breakup in moving point. 
because smaller spatial division and higher temporal refresh 
rate can make human eyes fail to find rainbow effect. It means 
that high sub-frame rate and small spatial division improve the 
performance of color sequential technique. 
B. Motion blur effects 
The slow response time of liquid crystal and hold-type 
driving technique are the main reasons that incur motion blur 
effects [7, 8]. The panel designers focus on fast response time 
of liquid crystal material. However, it needs much time to 
develop good performance of liquid crystal. Thus, we can 
depend on the novel driving techniques to enhance image 
qualities with reduced motion blur effects. 
For liquid crystal display technique, image brightness is 
determined by angle of liquid crystal not by backlight module 
with steady driving method. It means that the strength of 
backlight doesn’t depend on the content of image. However, 
the display technique provided by cathode ray tube (CRT) is 
named as impulse-type technique shown in Fig. 5(a) because 
focused beam of electrons generated by CRT excite phosphor 
layer with red, green, blue zones. Each pixel on the CRT 
screen is lightened owing to the excitation of focused beam of 
electrons. After excitation, material can come back to its initial 
status. It is very difficult for human’s vision system to find out 
the process of excitation during a short period as shown in Fig. 
5(b) [9]. Contrarily, it is easy for human vision system to find 
out the blur effect by the hold-type display technique. In Fig. 
6(a), the movement of square block by hold-type backlight 
technique does not have motion blur effect. However, the 
movement of square block by impulse-type backlight 
technique has serious motion effect in Fig. 6(b). 
  
sequential technique in LCD panel with color filter in Fig. 8 (a) 
and (b) for high brightness [10]. This technique also uses 
pseudo-random sequence of color in the spatial and temporal 
domain on the LCD for eliminating CBU and motion blur 
effects. 
Fig. 8(a). CMY color sequential technique. 
 
Fig. 8(b). The color sequence of the first block versus time. 
CMY color sequential is generated by mixed RGB LED 
backlight. Compared to RGB color sequential technique, there 
are always two LEDs turned on among three RGB LEDs for 
every sub-frame. The luminance of CMY color sequential 
technique is raised and the effect of CBU is also reduced for 
displaying two of colors at the same time. 
C. High Contrast Algorithm 
In order to implement high contrast technique [11, 12] in 
our MCS algorithm in LCD panel with color filter, we raise 
LED sub-frame rate to display many complete sequences in 
one image frame period (1/60 sec). Thus, the combination of 
CMY sequence, RGB sequence, and black insertion can 
constitute different brightness degree for high contrast display, 
which is shown in Fig 9. 
Fig. 9. Combination of CMY sequence, RGB sequence, and black insertion.
We combine two color sequential techniques to generate a 
low power high contrast backlight system. Generally speaking, 
the brightness of CMY color sequential technique is twice that 
of RGB color sequential technique. In other words, the 
combination RGB and CMY backlight can raise the image 
contrast. At first, we use a low resolution backlight panel to 
map to a high resolution LCD panel. It means that the 
backlight panel is designed as x*y regions to map to M*N 
regions in LCD panel. Thus, each individual block contains 
(M/x)*(N/y) pixels. The decision of mixed backlight is the 
average LC gray level value of these pixels. The high contrast 
algorithm is implemented by the following two individual 
procedures. Two individual procedures can be executed at the 
same time because they are independent cases. The two 
procedures are shown in Fig. 10. 
In procedure 1, we use equation (1) to calculate the 
average gray level value of block N from step 1 to 4. 
1
1
M
x
N
y a
a
a
N
P
M
xV N
y
=
=
=
∑∑
               (1) 
Pa stands for the gray level value of every pixel in block N. 
This procedure is finished when all gray level of every pixel in 
block N is averaged. Then, VN stands for the average value of 
block N. If we finish the average of the individual block, we 
will decide the backlight patterns in procedure 2.  
In step 6, we make sure the average gray level is equal to 
zero or not. If the average gray level is zero, the backlight is 
turned off in step 7A. For nonzero average gray level value, 
we can decide the backlight patterns by step 8A or 8B. If we 
turn on the ultra high contrast, the backlight patterns are 
decided by equations (2)-(4). Parameter F is LED sub-frame 
rate and equal to four times a LED frame rate because a LED 
frame is composed of four sub-frames. Parameters G and Z are 
the maximum gray level of liquid crystal and the minimum 
  
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig.11. (a) Color breakup owing to conventional color sequential technique. 
(b) Improved color breakup by RGB color sequential technique. (The 
overlapped white square objects are due to the speed of camera shutter is 
larger than that of original moving object.). 
In order to estimate the effects of motion blur, a white 
square object with black background moves from left-top to 
right-bottom on different panels, which are CRT panel, LCD 
panel with CCFL backlight module, and OCB LCD 
panel(color filterless panel) with RGB backlight module. 
According to the pictures taken by digital camera, we can 
observe that there is no motion effect on CRT panel because of 
impulse-type display technique, which is shown in Fig. 12 (a). 
Owing to the different brightness between in red and green 
windows, we can observe obvious blur images in red window 
in Fig. 12 (b), which is estimated on LCD panel with CCFL 
backlight module. After the receiver of human’s eyes, it is easy 
to find out blur effect at the edge of white square object [15]. 
However, the blur effect can be alleviated by RGB color 
sequential technique implemented on OCB LCD panel (color 
filterless panel) with RGB backlight module because of 
impulse-type display. The brightness of blur images in red 
window can be ignored by RGB color sequential technique in 
Fig. 12 (c), which shows the alleviation of blur effect. The blur 
effect is shrunk from a red window in Fig. 12 (b) to few blur 
pixels in red window in Fig. 12(c). 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Fig. 12. (a) Moving object on conventional CRT display. (b) Motion blur 
owing to moving object on liquid crystal display by CCFL hold-type 
backlight module. (c) Motion blur owing to moving object on liquid crystal 
display by RGB impulse-type backlight module. 
B. CMY color sequential technique 
Owing to the absence of color is only one color in RGB 
backlight module by replacing RGB color sequential 
technique by CMY color sequential technique, the color 
breakup effect of CMY color sequential technique is less than 
that of RGB color sequential technique. The comparison 
between Fig. 13 and Fig. 11 (b) can illustrate the improvement 
benefited from CMY color sequential technique. Although, 
the improvement of motion blur by CMY color sequential 
technique is the same as that by RGB color sequential 
technique. It is obvious that the image quality is improved by 
CMY color sequential technique because of reduced blur 
effect, which is shown in Fig. 14, which implemented on OCB 
LCD panel (color filterless panel). As we expect, the blur 
effect in red window is better than that generated by RGB 
