may play an oncogenic or tumor suppressor role in 
human cancer. To study the regulatory role of miRNAs 
in tumorigenesis, an integrated platform has been set 
up to provide a user friendly interface for query. 
The main advantage of the present platform is that 
all the miRNA target genes＇ information and disease 
records are drawn from experimentally verified or 
high confidence records.  
Results 
MiRNA target gene results are annotated with 
reference to the disease gene as well as the pathway 
database. The correlation strength between miRNA and 
target gene expression profile is quantified by 
computing the correlation coefficient using the NCI-
60 expression profiling data. Comprehensive analysis 
of the NCI-60 data found that the cumulative 
percentage of negative correlation coefficients for 
cleavage regulation is slightly higher than its 
positive counterpart； which indicated that the mRNA 
degradation mechanism is slightly dominant. In 
addition, the RNAHybrid and TargetScans scores are 
computed which potentially served as quantitative 
estimators for miRNA-mRNA binding events. 
Three scores are defined for each miRNA-mRNA pair, 
which are based on the disease gene and pathway 
information. These three scores allow user to sort 
out high confidence cancer-related miRNA-mRNA pairs. 
Statistical tests were applied to investigate the 
relations of three chromosomal features, i.e. CpG 
island, fragile site, and miRNA cluster, with cancer-
related miRNAs. A web-based interface has been set up 
for query, which can be accessed at: 
http://ppi.bioinfo.asia.edu.tw/mirna_target/. 
Conclusions 
The main advantage of the present platform on miRNA-
mRNA targeting information is that all the target 
genes＇ information and disease records are 
experimentally verified. Although this may limit the 
number of miRNA-mRNA relationships, the results 
provided here are more solid and have fewer false 
positive events. Certain novel cancer-related miRNA-
mRNA pairs are identified and confirmed in the 
A platform for querying breast and prostate cancer-related microRNA genes
Shun-Tsung Chen, Hsing-Fang Wu, Ka-Lok Ng* 
Department of Biomedical Informatics, Asia University, Taiwan 41354 
*corresponding author: ppiddi@gmail.com  
 
Abstract—Recent studies indicate that microRNA may play an 
important role in human cancer, where microRNA targets tumor 
suppressor genes or oncogenes. To study this hypothesis, breast 
and prostate cancers are selected as illustrations. Differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) are identified by using the Bioconductor 
package. By integrating three complementary resources, that is, 
cancerous genes, microRNA target genes, and cancer-related 
microRNA databases; it is found that certain cancer-related 
DEGs are regulated by microRNAs. These findings suggest a 
potential relationship between those microRNAs and DEGs 
events, which deserve further in-vitro investigation. An 
integrated platform has been set up that provides a user friendly 
interface for query, http://ppi.bioinfo.asia.edu.tw/R_cancer/. 
Keywords- differentially expressed genes; microRNA; breast 
cancer; prostate cancer; Bioconductor; Significance Analysis of 
Microarray, Empirical Bayes Analysis of Microarrays and 
Empirical Bayes Method 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Microarray technology allows for high-throughput 
screening and analyzing tens of thousands of genes at the same 
time. Some genes are activated or inhibited (called 
differentially expressed genes, DEGs), due to certain regulatory 
factors, resulting in changes in gene expression levels up to a 
few times, ten times or more. Given sets of cancer microarray 
data, one can identify DEGs among a large number of gene 
expressions, and understand the mechanism of sickness caused 
by these DEGs. 
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small non-coding 
RNAs that hybridize to their target mRNA sequence in the 3’-
untranslated region, and induce either translation repression or 
mRNA degradation. Studies show that the abnormal expression 
of genes often results from the regulation of miRNAs. Recent 
works indicate that miRNAs could play an important role in 
human cancer where miRNAs target oncogene (OCG) or tumor 
suppressor genes (TSG) to regulate gene expression [1-5]. In 
this paper, we propose to study the role of miRNAs in 
carcinogenesis. 
There are many microarray data analysis methods, such as 
using the concept of false discovery rate (FDR) to screen for 
significant genes [6], using ANOVA to explore the impact of 
microarray gene expression values within a single factor [7], 
and clustering analysis [8]. In this study, three statistical 
methods, i.e. Significance Analysis of Microarray (SAM) [9-
10], Empirical Bayes Analysis of Microarrays (EBAM) [11], 
and empirical Bayes statistics for differential expression 
(eBayes) [12] are employed to screen DEGs. The publicly 
available microarray data analysis package Bioconductor [13-
14] is adopted to perform such calculations. We selected breast 
cancer and prostate cancer as our study cases in this work. 
Three complementary resources, (i) the cancerous gene 
database, Tumor Associated Gene (TAG) [15], (ii) the miRNA 
target gene database, ncRNAppi [16], and (iii) the cancer-
related microRNA databases; miR2disease [17] are used to 
look for miRNAs which regulate cancer-related genes. The 
main advantage of the present platform on miRNA-mRNA 
targeting information is that all the target genes’ information 
and disease records are experimentally verified on high 
confidence records. 
II. INPUT DATA AND METHODS 
A. Input data 
The microarray data for breast cancer and prostate cancer 
were downloaded from ith experiment ID E-GEOD-9574 and 
E-GEOE-GEOD-9574, an 133A microarray, compared gene 
expression between 15 samples of histologically normal breast 
epithelium from breast cancer patients and 14 samples of 
cancer-free controls. The 15 samples were drawn from 
epithelia adjacent to a breast tumor, and the 14 samples were 
obtained from patients undergoing reduction mammoplasty 
without apparent breast cancer. 504 hybridizations, including 
data from several kinds of normal tissues and cancer tissue. 
Among these 504 arrays, 64 arrays are experimented prostate 
cancer tissue and 18 arrays are normal prostate tissue samples’ 
B. Bioconductor packages – SAM, EBAM and eBayes 
SAM is a statistical method for identifying DEGs by 
comparing two or more groups of samples. It uses repeated 
permutations of the data to estimate False Discovery Rate 
(FDR) based on observed versus expected score, which is 
obtained from randomized data. A gene which has an observed 
score that deviates significantly from the expected score is 
consider as a DEG. EBAM performs one and two class 
analyses using either a modified t-statistic or standardized 
Wilcoxon rank statistic, and a multiclass analysis using a 
modified F-statistic. Moreover, this function provides a 
EBAM procedure for categorical data such as SNP data and 
the possibility of employing a user-written score function. The 
eBayes algorithm computes moderated t-statistics, moderated 
F-statistic, and log-odds of differential expression by 
empirical Bayes shrinkage of the standard errors towards a 
common value. Since both the breast and prostate cancer 
microarray data are obtained from two different groups of 
patients, a two-class unpaired test is adopted in the SAM, 
EBAM and eBayes analysis. 
TABLE III.  BREAST CANCER TISSUE SPECIFIC MIRNA AND ITS TARGET  
GENES 
miRNA  cancer tissue type regulated DEG  
miR-29b breast MCL1 
miR-30a-3p breast, colon, lung CYR61 
miR-`155 breast, colon, liver, lung, ovary CLDN1 
miR-200(a,b,c) breast, liver, lung, ovary ZEB1 
miR-429 breast,  lung, ovary ZEB1 
miR-373 breast, head & neck squamous cell (HNSC), prostate CD24 
B. Prostate cancer 
The first 100 most significant DEGs, which consist of up 
and down regulated genes, predicted by  The adjusted p-value 
of these DEGs are less than 1.9*10-5. Among these 100 DEGs, 
15 genes are removed due to repeated probe IDs. For the 
remaining 85 DEGs there are 16 known cancer genes (18.8%) 
recorded by TAGs and the PubMed service. The results are 
summarized in Table IV. 
TABLE IV.  THE RESULTS OF MATCHING THE TOP 85 DEGS WITH TAG 
OCG (5) TSG (8) Others (3) 
AXL, ETS2, JUND, 
LMO2, FOS 
TGFBR3, PPP1R3C, GPX3, 
RARRES1, GAS1, BIN1, 
TGFBR2, 
CSPG4, RSU1,  
Genes PLP2, CD59 and GJA1 are not collected by TAG, 
however, PLP2 is recorded by the ncRNAppi database; 
whereas the literature suggested that GJA1 is a TSG [29] and 
CD59 [30] is associated with prostate cancer. Again, cancer-
related DEGs are queried against PubMed, ncRNAppi and 
miR2disease databases. The results are shown in Table V. 
TABLE V.  PROSTATE CANCER-RELATED MIRNA 
 TAG ncRNAppi miR2Disease 
FOS OCG n/a miR-101 
AXL OCG miR-1 n/a 
TGFBR2 TSG miR-20a miR-20a 
PLP2 n/a miR-124 n/a 
CD59 other miR-124 n/a 
GJA1 TSG miR-1 miR-206 
miR-1 
miR-206 
n/a denotes information is not available; other denotes cancer-related gene 
It was found that FOS, AXL and TGFBR2 are regulated 
by miR-101, miR-1 and miR-20a, respectively; Both PLP2 
and CD59 are regulated by miR-124; GJA1 is regulated by 
both the miR-1 and miR-206. Results of tissue specific cancer-
related miRNA are depicted in Table VI. Literature records 
indicated that both miR-101 and miR-20a are associated with 
prostate cancer. FOS plays the role of OCG in prostate cancer 
[31], but this information is not recorded by miR2Disease. 
 
 
 
TABLE VI.  CANCER TISSUE SPECIFIC MIRNA AND TARGET  GENES 
miRNA  cancer tissue type regulated DEG  
miR-101 prostate, ovary, renal, liver, bladder, HNSC FOS 
miR-20a prostate, breast, colon, kidney, liver, lung, ovary, pancreatic TGFBR2 
miR-1 colon, liver, lung, HNSC AXL 
miR-124 liver PLP2 
miR-124 liver CD59 
miR-206 breast, ovary 
GJA1 
miR-1 colon, liver, lung, HNSC 
 
TGFBR2 is identified as a miR-20a target gene by 
miR2Disease [32], this means that miR-20a participates in 
human prostate cancer by regulating TGFBR2. CD59 is 
associated with prostate cancer, but its regulator miR-124 
could not be identified with any association with cancer. In 
addition, the literature had a record indicating that AXL, 
which is regulated by miR-1, is expressed in prostate cancer 
[33]. It suggested that AXL is probably highly related to 
prostate cancer. An integrated platform has been set up to 
provide a user friendly interface for query, 
http://ppi.bioinfo.asia.edu.tw/R_cancer/.  This website 
provides genetic, miRNA and tissue information for (i) breast 
cancer DEGs predicted by SAM and EBAM, and (ii) prostate 
cancer DEGs predicted by eBayes. This platfrom will serve as 
an useful resource for studying the oncogenic and tumor 
suppressor role of miRNAs. 
IV. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION 
In this study, the Bioconductor package is adopted to 
identify DEGs for breast as well as prostate cancer from 
microarray data. Our results suggested that, SAM, EBAM and 
eBayes, achieve a similar level of cancer gene prediction 
accuracy, i.e. around 20%. By integrating the ncRNAppi and 
miR2Disease databases, it is found that certain DEGs are 
regulated by miRNAs. Breast and prostate tissue specific 
cancer-related miRNAs are identified, suggesting these 
miRNAs can potentially play an oncogenic or tumor suppressor 
role in cancer. Also, a few cancer-related miRNAs are 
identified which are verified in the literature, thus, indicating 
the strength or effectiveness of the present approach. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
Dr. Ka-Lok Ng work is supported by the National Science 
Council of ROC under the grant of NSC 99-2221-E-468-016-
MY2. We thank Tim Williams, Asia University, for providing 
an English proof reading service of this article. 
REFERENCES 
[1] C. Z. Chen, “MicroRNAs as Oncogenes and Tumor 
Suppressors,” New Eng. J. Med, 353, pp.1768-1771, 
2005. 
[2] R. Garzon, M. Fabbri, A. Cimmino, G. A. Calin, and C. 
M. Croce, “MicroRNA expression and function in 
cancer,” Trends Mol Med, 12, pp.580-587, 2006. 
[3] E. K. Aurora and J. S. Frank, Oncomirs-microRNAs with 
a role in cancer, Nat Rev Cancer, 6, pp.259-269, 2006. 
[33] P. P. Sainaghi, L. Castello, L. Bergamasco, M. Galletti, P. 
Bellosta, and G. C. Avanzi, “Gas6 induces proliferation in 
prostate carcinoma cell lines expressing the Axl receptor,” 
J Cell Physiol, 204(1), pp.36-44, 2005
 
99年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳家樂 計畫編號：99-2221-E-468-016-MY2 
計畫名稱：微型核糖核酸研究–與疾病之探討、蛋白質複合體之調控及網路基序建立 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：
如 數 個 計 畫 共 同
成果、成果列為該
期 刊 之 封 面 故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
國內 論文著作 
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
1. Jia-Peng Pan, 
Shih-Yin Chen, 
Shan-Chih Lee 
(2012) The 
susceptibility of 
UVB in human skin 
keratinocytes 
(HaCaT) and BCC 
cell lines, role of 
DNA repair 
mechanisms. 第二十
七屆生物醫學聯合學
術年會。台北，台灣。
2. Zi–Jun Lin, Jim 
Jinn-Chyuan Sheu, 
Shan–Chih Lee 
(2012) YWHAZ 
Amplification 
Contributes to 
Chemo-resistance 
and Recurrence of 
Bladder Cancer. 第
二十七屆生物醫學聯
Genes ＇ . 
International 
Conference of 
Inflammation, 
Cardiometabolic 
Diseases and 
Cancer, National 
Health Research 
Institute, Taiwan, 
2010/11/7-8. 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100% 
(1) 
Cherry Yin-Yi 
Chang, Yi Chen, 
Wu-Chou Lin, 
Chih-Mei Chen, 
Chih-Ping Chen, 
Shan-Chih Lee, Jim 
Jinn-Chyuan Sheu 
and Fuu-Jen Tsai 
(2012) MUC2 
polymorphisms are 
associated with 
endometriosis 
development and 
infertility: a 
case-control 
study. BMC Medical 
Genetics, 13:15. 
(2) 
Analysis of the 
NCI-60 dataset for 
cancer-related 
microRNA and mRNA 
using expression 
profiles (under 
review) 
國外 論文著作 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他協
助產業技術發展之具
體效益事項等，請以
文字敘述填列。) 
The Best Session Paper 
Nilubon Kurubanjerdjit, Jeffrey J.P Tsai, Ka-Lok Ng, (2012) Prediction 
of microRNA-regulated A. thaliana-Xcc protein interaction pathways＇ 
International Conference on Agricultural, Environment and Biological 
Sciences (ICAEBS＇2012) May 26-27, 2012, Phuket (Thailand) 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
