行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 成果報告
 
基於通道及網路編碼的混合式自動要求重傳系統於多播式或廣播式
通訊之研究 
A Study of Hybrid ARQ Systems Based On Channel Coding And 
Network Coding for Multicast or Broadcast Communications 
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－155－013－ 
執行期間：97 年 8月 1日至 98 年 7月 31 日 
計畫主持人：李世凱   元智大學通訊工程學系 
計畫參與人員： 楊定達、杜宗翰、廖偉迪、蘇忠政 
 
 
中文摘要 
湧泉碼應用於廣播系統中尤其用在抹除
通道下是很有效率的。LT 碼是湧泉碼的一
種，比起傳統的湧泉碼，它有著比較簡單的
編碼與解碼之特性。自動重傳要求排程通常
使用於重傳時產生湧泉碼的冗餘符元，可提
高可靠度與輸出率的效率。在本文中，我們
提出了一個使用增量冗餘符元的自動重傳要
求排程機制，並搭配 LT 碼於抹除通道下的廣
播通訊系統。由於在重傳中，增量冗餘符元
使用的數量決定了輸出率的效率，因此我們
對於這些增量冗餘符元的使用做了一個適當
的排程安排機制。從模擬結果可看出，比起
先前的重傳方法，我們提出的排程機制可使
增量冗餘符元的使用數量達到最小，因此提
高了 LT 碼於廣播通訊系統下整體的效能。 
 
關鍵詞：LT 碼、湧泉碼、自動重傳要求、增
量冗餘、抹除通道。 
 
Abstract 
Fountain codes are efficient for broadcast 
systems especially over erasure channels. LT 
codes are a class of fountain codes with a 
simpler encoding and decoding algorithm. An 
ARQ scheduling on the redundancy generation 
of a fountain code is often employed to improve 
the reliability and also the throughput efficiency. 
In this report, we propose a scheme which uses 
LT codes and an efficient ARQ scheduling 
algorithm in generating incremental redundancy 
symbols for broadcast communications over 
erasure channels. Since the number of 
incremental redundancy symbols for 
retransmission concerns about the throughput 
efficiency, we have made a proper scheduling 
arrangement on generating incremental 
redundancy symbols. Simulation results show 
that comparing to other known schemes, our 
proposed scheme is with the least number of 
incremental redundancy symbols than that of 
others and therefore achieves better 
performance. 
 
Keywords: LT codes, Fountain codes, ARQ, 
Incremental redundancy, Erasure channel. 
 
 
I. Introduction 
LT (Luby Transform) codes are the first 
class of efficient fountain codes [1]-[4], 
introduced by Luby in 2002 [1]. It retains the 
good performance of the random linear fountain 
code, while drastically reducing the encoding 
and decoding complexities. An LT code 
produces a potentially limitless number of 
independent output symbols according to an 
output degree distribution. LT codes are proved 
Note that the encoding process can be 
endless if we do not determine the value n (i.e., 
n approaches infinity). This is also why the 
fountain codes are also recognized as rateless 
codes. The decoding process of an LT codeword 
( )nvvv ,,, 21 L=v  usually uses the message 
passing or belief passing algorithm. For the 
multicast communication over an erasure 
channel, a subscriber may receive an erased 
version of the codeword as 
( )njjje vvvvv r ,,,,,,,, 211)( LLLL=v , where 
( )
rjjj vvv ,,, 21 L  are the r encoded symbols that 
encounter erasures. Over an erasure channel, the 
decoding process begins from those symbols 
(squares) with only one neighbor (circle) in the 
erased version of the bipartite graph in which 
( )
rjjj vvv ,,, 21 L  do not attend. Those symbols 
pass their values to their connecting neighbors 
and then eliminate the connecting edges 
between them and their neighbors. The 
neighbors represent the information symbols are 
decoded at this time. Then the decoded 
information symbols do the same way of 
message passing. They pass their values to their 
neighbors (squares now) and then eliminate the 
connecting edges between them and their 
neighbors. The neighbors update their values by 
XOR-ing the passed values and their original 
values. Repeat the process, we may finally 
decode all values of ( )Kuuu ,,, 21 L=u .  If the 
number of trailing degree 1 is missing to the 
encoded symbols (no symbol has only one 
neighbor) during the process the decoding will 
be stopped and declared as a decoding failure. A 
graphic interpretation of the message passing 
decoding algorithm is referred to [4], [7], [9]. 
The complexity of BP is about )ln( KKO . 
All encoded symbols following the 
encoding process with RSD constitute an LT 
codeword of the original LT code. 
III. Proposed LT-code based ARQ 
scheduling scheme 
 
We consider a simple wireless broadcast 
system [8], [10] with a single transmitter (the 
sender) and multiple receivers (broadcast users). 
The goal of this system is to broadcast a 
message reliably to all related users. All the 
receivers can reconstruct the message 
independent of their access patterns or access 
times. We consider communication over an 
erasure channel with erasure probability p by 
using LT codes under BPSK modulation. With 
the feature of the LT codes, they can benefit 
from any received segment of the ongoing 
broadcast. 
As mentioned in last chapter, we call input 
symbols the set of information message to be 
transmitted and output symbols the symbols 
produced by an LT code from the input symbols. 
We call IR (incremental redundancy) symbols 
the set of symbols produced from the input 
symbols to help users recover the original 
information message in every retransmission. 
For simplification, we assume each symbol is 
just one bit. However, it is straightforward to 
extend the symbol to more bits. 
In this paper, we use term transmission 
group (TG) to indicate the set of information 
input symbols the sender wants to broadcast to 
related users in each complete transmission 
cycle. During the transmission, the sender first 
transmits a TG to all broadcast users. According 
to the feedback information the sender then 
retransmits the IR symbol if necessary. The 
sender will not transmit the next TG until every 
broadcast user is capable to recover the entire 
TG. In our assumption of the (N,K) LT code, 
each TG carries N output symbols 
,1for, Njv j ≤≤  which are encoded from K 
input symbols .1for, Kiui ≤≤  When every 
retransmission occurs, R IR symbols 
network, 7 broadcast users receive the TG, 
which is formed by 10 input symbols (K = 10) 
and transmitted by the sender. After individual 
LT decoding process, all users feedback the 
information of unrecovered input symbols as 
indicated in Table 1 where User 1 needs the 
retransmission for 922 and,, uuu , while User 2 
needs for 8321 and,,, uuuu , and so on. 
According the operations of Algorithm 3, we 
can have the resulted IR symbols for the 
retransmission as shown in Table 2. 
 
IV. Simulations and Conclusions 
In this section, the efficiencies of the 
algorithms described in the previous section are 
evaluated. The first one is the decoding failure 
probability, which is the probability that the 
symbols in a TG are not all decoded. The next 
one is throughput which is defined as, 
 
∑
∞
=
+
=
1
'
i
iRN
Kη       (3) 
 
Where 'iR  denotes the number of IR symbols 
generated at the i-th retransmission. The last one 
is the mean delay, which is defined as the 
average elapsed time from the transmission of 
the first TG until all users successful decode it 
from the retransmissions 
Figure 2 shows the decoding performance 
of an LT code without ARQ under K = 200, p = 
0 or 0.1, U = 1, 10, 100 users. Figure 3 
illustrates the useful effects of the precoding in 
Algorithm 1 which can improve the decoding 
performance. Figure 4 illustrates the effects of 
Algorithm 2. With R = 1, there is no effect on 
improving the decoding performance. Figure 5 
shows the superiority by using Algorithm 3 that 
if more information could be feedbacked to the 
sender, the sender can make a good arrangement 
to get large improvement. The throughput 
performance of using Algorithm 3 is shown in 
Figure 6. The mean delay performance of using 
Algorithm 3 is shown in Figure 7. 
We have discussed LT codes as an efficient 
solution to reliable wireless broadcast 
communications, especially when broadcast 
users encounter heterogeneous channel 
conditions. We have proposed some ARQ 
scheduling schemes to obtain better decoding 
performance for LT codes. According to 
different feedback information from broadcast 
users, we have shown different strategies on 
generating incremental redundancy symbols. 
Among these schemes, if the sender has the 
most information of unrecovered symbols, 
Algorithm 3 provides the highest throughput 
with least number of IR symbols and achieves 
the best decoding performance than the others 
do. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1, bipartite Tanner graph. 
 
 
Table 1, an example of multiusers’ NACKs. 
 
 
  
Figure 5, the effect of using Algorithm 3 under 
p=0.1, K=200, R=1, and U=10 users. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6, the throughput of using Algorithm 3 
under K=200, N=220, and R=1. 
 
 
Figure 7, the mean delay of using Algorithm 3 
under K=200, N=220, and R=1. 
 
Reference 
[1] M. Luby, ”LT-codes,” in Proceedings of the 
43rd Annual IEEE Symposium on the 
Foundations of Computer Science (STOC), pp. 
271-280, 2002. 
[2] A. Shokrollahi, ”Raptor codes,” IEEE Trans. 
Inf. Theory, vol. 52, pp.2551-2567, Jun. 2006. 
[3] Mohammad Nekoui, Nazy Ranjkesh, and 
Farshad Lahouti, ”A Fountain Code Approach 
towards Priority Encoding Transmission,” 
Proceedings of 2006 IEEE Information Theory 
Workshop (ITW’06). 
[4] D.J.C Mackay, ”Fountain codes,” in IEE 
Proceedings-Communications, Volume 152, no. 
6, Dec. 2005. 
[5] Chikara Sasaki, Teruyuki Hasegawa, Osamu 
Kobayashi, Shigehiro Ano and Toru 
Hasegawa, ”On Unicast based Recovery for 
Multicast Content Distribution considering 
XOR-FEC,” 2005 Asia-Pacific Conference on 
Communications, pp. 1043-1047, Oct. 2005. 
[6] Emina Soijanin, Nedeljko Varnica, and 
Philip Whiting, ”Punctured vs Rateless Codes 
for Hybrid ARQ,” in IEEE Information Theory 
Workshop, pp. 155-159, Mar, 2006.  
Red: N=220 
Purple: N=240 
Blue: N=260 
Green: N=280 
Brown: N=300 
Yellow: N=320 
Dash line: bound = K/N 
Red: p=0.1, U=1 
Yellow: p=0.1, U=10 
Brown: p=0.1, U=100 
Dash line: bound = K/N 
Red: p=0.1, U=1 
Brown: p=0.1, U=10 
Yellow: p=0.1, U=100 
附件一 
出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文 
報告人姓名 李世凱 所屬系所 元智大學通訊系 
會議時間地點 98.06.21~98.06.24 
萊比錫(Leipzig), 德國 
會議名稱 IWCMC (International Wireless Communications and 
Mobile Computing Conference) 2009 
發表論文題目 LT codes for OFDM multicast systems with PAPR 
reduction capability 
出席國際會議報告內容 
一、參加會議經過 
本屆 IWCMC 2009 會議聯合 HPC (High performance Computing & Simulation 
Conference) 2009 於 98 年 6 月 21 日起至 6 月 24 日止在德國萊比錫舉行，本次會
議贊助單位包括 ACM、、IEEE、IFIP、ASIM、EUROSIM、CASS、JSST、LSS、
PTSK、TSS 和萊比錫大學等。會議涵蓋的層面很廣，包括行動計算(mobile 
computing)、跨層設計(cross layer design)、緊急通訊(emergency communications)、
安全設計、認知網路、合作網路、路由及規約設計、多天線通訊設計等。我投稿
的論文屬於跨層設計此一部份。論文中結合封包網路編碼與實體層峰均值比之降
低設計。參加此會議的目的在於了解國際間通訊領域發展研究的流行趨勢。我的
報告論文是在 6 月 22 日下午由台大孫雅麗教授代班主持的跨層設計會議中進行，
原本的主席應為德國的 Falko Dressler。 
 
二、與會心得 
此次國際會議在德國文化之都萊比錫舉行，與其他各國的通訊研究人員做交
流，期間除了碰到印度、韓國、芬蘭、愛爾蘭、新加坡、德國、中國大陸等學者
外，國內學者碰到如台大孫雅麗教授、中研院陳孟彰博士、交大王蒞君教授、成
大楊竹星教授、黃悅民教授、淡江李維聰教授、吳庭育教授等，除了將自己所學
的知識與大家分享之外，也從他人那邊聽取相關的建議和研究方向。 
在 6 月 21 日的 tutorial 中由 Univ. of Florida 的 Amed Helmy 教授演講
的 ”Mobility modeling for future mobile network design and simulation” 最令我印象
深刻，另外由 Tarik Taleb 演講的”Towrds Ubiquitous Healthcare Services”也點出目前
在 telemedicine 領域的發展現況，其它幾天的分組會議內容也相當具有啟發性。 
 
三、考察參觀活動 
會議在 6 月 22 日的德國萊比錫大學 Moritzbastei 有一場接待晚宴，這是一處
由酒窖改造的接待中心，具有相當久的歷史背景。與會中德國萊比錫大學校長與
LT Codes for OFDM Multicast Systems with PAPR 
Reduction Capability 
Shih-Kai Lee 
Dept. of Communication 
Engineering, Yuan Ze Univ. 
Taoyuan, Taiwan 
+886-3-4638800ext7326 
sklee@saturn.yzu.edu.tw 
Hsin-Liang Chiu 
Dept. of Electrical 
Engineering, National 
Taiwan Univ. 
Taipei, Taiwan 
r96942122@ntu.edu.tw 
Yung-Chih Tsai 
Dept. of Electrical 
Engineering, National 
Taiwan Univ.  
Taipei, Taiwan 
d92942009@ntu.edu.tw 
Hsin-Yi Chen 
Dept. of Electrical 
Engineering, National 
Taiwan Univ.  
Taipei, Taiwan 
yichen@cht.com.tw
 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Luby Trasform (LT) codes are regarded as packet-based codes 
which are useful for multicast communications. High Peak-to-
Average Power Ratio (PAPR) is a notorious problem inherently 
existing in OFDM systems. In this paper, we propose to take the 
PAPR constraint into account in the encoding of LT codes for 
OFDM multicast systems. Substantial PAPR reduction can be 
obtained without sacrificing the decoding performance of LT 
codes.  
Categories and Subject Descriptors 
E.4 [Data]: Coding and Information Theory – data compaction 
and compression, error control codes, formal models of 
communication, nonsecret encoding schemes. 
General Terms 
Algorithms, Performance, Design, Experimentation. 
Keywords 
LT codes, OFDM, PAPR. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Recently, fountain codes have received much attention both in 
theoretical researches [1-5] and in practical applications [6]. 
Fountain codes are originally designed with a few redundant 
symbols for reliable transmission of data over erasure channels. 
The codes are useful if feedback channels do not exist or are not 
available which means that no Automatic Retransmission reQuest 
(ARQ) mechanisms could be adopted. For multicast 
communications, ARQ mechanisms will bring too many 
acknowledgments over the feedback channels from subscribers 
which are bandwidth-wasteful and easy to cause network 
congestion. Fountain codes provide another choice for such 
communications. One famous class of fountain codes is the LT 
codes [3] which are invented by Luby. Some basics of LT codes 
will be reviewed in section II.  
OFDM technique [8] becomes more popular than before for the 
sake of its high spectral efficiency in wireless communications. 
Because of the requirement of high data-rate applications, OFDM 
technique has been regarded as the technique of next generation 
for wireless communications such as 3GPP LTE and IEEE 
802.16e [6, 7]. One of the drawbacks of the technique is the 
PAPR problem. While the data loaded in the frequency bins of the 
IFFT module of an OFDM system, the resulted output bins 
represented the timing samples are inherently not with equal 
amplitudes. The real part and imaginary part of one sample could 
be modeled as two variables of normal distribution while the size 
of the frequency bins is large [8]. This phenomenon constitutes 
high PAPR in OFDM systems. Many resolutions such as clipping, 
SeLective Mapping (SLM), Partial Transmit Sequence (PTS) [8] 
have been proposed to reduce PAPR in OFDM systems. One 
important statistic measurement of PAPR is recognized as 
Complementary Cumulative Distribution Function (CCDF) by 
which we may assess the efficiencies of those resolutions to 
PAPR reduction. The definition of CCDF is described in section 
III. 
Usually, LT codes are used as packet-based codes in the data 
link layer or upper layers and OFDM modulation is recognized to 
be used in the physical layer (air interface). Cross layer designs 
for communication systems are a trend to achieve higher system 
performance such as system throughput and Quality on Service 
(QoS). For example, cross layer designers may consider a coding 
design of combining source coding and channel coding [9] or a 
diversity design of Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and 
Multi-Input/Multi-Output (MIMO) physical transmission [10]. In 
this paper, we take the PAPR constraint into account in the design 
of LT codes. We incorporate a PAPR threshold as a parameter 
during the encoding process of LT codes through which we may 
obtain a better CCDF curve. Besides the satisfactory PAPR 
reduction, we may have almost equivalent decoding performance 
as the original LT code for OFDM multicast systems. 
The paper is organized as follows. Section II describes the 
encoding and decoding process of LT codes. Section III describes 
the CCDF calculation on PAPR for OFDM systems. Section IV 
describes our proposed cross layer design. The simulation and 
conclusion of the proposed design is shown in section V.  
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for 
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are 
not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that 
copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. To copy 
otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, 
requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. IWCMC’09, June 21–24, 
2009, Leipzig, Germany. Copyright © 2009 ACM 978-1-60558-569-
7/09/06...$5.00                        
348
3. PAPR OF OFDM SYSTEMS 
Although OFDM technique provides the advantages of high 
spectral efficiency and excellent immunity of multi-path effect in 
wireless communications, one of the drawbacks of the technique 
is the notorious PAPR problem. While the data loaded in the 
frequency bins of the IFFT module of one OFDM system, the 
resulted output bins represented the timing samples are inherently 
not with equal amplitudes. The real part and imaginary part of one 
sample could be modeled as two variables of normal distribution 
while the size of the frequency bins is large [8]. This phenomenon 
constitutes high PAPR in OFDM systems. For one OFDM signal 
being carried by N subcarriers, let {X1, X2, …, XN} be the set of 
complex data with expected normalized power 1 which are loaded 
as the input of the IFFT module. Then the resulting set of timing 
samples, {x1, x2, …, xN} will be 
N
knjN
k
kn eXN
x
pi21
0
1
∑
−
=
=    (4) 
Since we assume 1]|[| 2 =kXE , the definition of PAPR is 
2
102
2
10 ||max]|[|
||max
nNn
k
nNn x
XE
x
PAPR
−≤≤
−≤≤
==   (5) 
One important statistic measurement of PAPR for an OFDM 
system is CCDF. The CDF and CCDF are defined as 
)Pr()( yPAPRyCDF ≤=  
)Pr()Pr(1)( yPAPRyPAPRyCCDF >=≤−=  (6) 
If N is large, the CCDF can be analytically calculated by 
assuming the real part and imaginary part of xn are two variables 
of normal distribution. Usually we plot the CCDF by using 
computer simulation of enough amounts of OFDM signals as 
shown in Fig.4. 
An OFDM system with high PAPR means that it must have 
linear power amplifier of large dynamic range to avoid signal 
distortion. The clipping method to deal with the PAPR problem is 
to directly cut off the amplitudes of those samples with large 
amplitudes to a predetermined threshold. Those samples are 
distorted and hence increase overall the demodulated data error 
rate in every subcarrier while they are demodulated in the output 
of the FFT module at the receiver. The increased data error rate 
depends on the threshold we have set up. We may see that if we 
choose larger threshold y’s in (6), the less distortion and less error 
rate we could have got since the CDF(y) is a non-decreasing 
function. In other words, if a value of y is given for two OFDM 
systems, the one with larger CDF(y) and hence less CCDF(y) and 
less error rate performs better than that with smaller CDF(y) and 
hence larger CCDF(y). Let one OFDM symbol represent one 
symbol (packet) of an encoded LT codeword. Obviously the 
symbol error rate of the LT codeword is smaller for the OFDM 
system of better PAPR performance. We shall introduce this idea 
to the proposed cross layer design in next section. 
4. PROPOSED DESIGN 
Since we regard an LT code as a packet-based code which is 
transmitted over the air interface by using OFDM modulation, we 
may assume that a packet is represented by an OFDM symbol in 
our proposed cross layer design. That is, every packet ai has its 
own PAPR value with the probability derived or simulated in (6). 
The goal in our design is to encode an LT codeword in which 
every symbol bi has its CCDF(y) as small as possible with a given 
value of y. 
In step 3 of the LT encoding process described in section II, it is 
described that “The value of the encoded symbol bj is the XOR of 
the d neighbors.” This suggests us to first divide the K 
information symbols into two groups. One group G1 is the 
symbols with their PAPR’s less than a predetermined value y and 
the other G2 is those with their PAPR higher than y. 
In step 1 of the LT encoding process described in section II, it is 
described that “For the jth encoded symbol, generating the degree 
d at random from the distribution.”  We consider the case that the 
encoded symbol is with d =1 and proceed to the step 2 with 
modification as, “Choose uniformly at random d (=1) distinct 
information symbols from the first group G1 as the neighbors of 
the encoded symbol.” Then, we can assure that all encoded 
symbols of d=1 have their PAPR’s less than y. The idea is 
somewhat like the design of prioritized LT code [12]. In [12], the 
higher prioritized symbols are served as the first group G1.  For 
the case that the encoded symbol is with d >1 in step 1, we 
proceed to the step 2 without modification. However, in this case 
the encoded symbol has no improvement in its PAPR’s. The XOR 
operation to d >1 distinct information symbols does not cause the 
CCDF curve with much difference if we assume that each of the d 
distinct information symbols is composed by a set of complex 
data, {X1, X2, …, XN}, which are uniformly distributed over the 
signal constellation such as PSK or QAM. 
SLM method is often used to reduce PAPR for OFDM systems. 
The main idea of it is to scramble the orders or the phases of the 
set of complex data before they are fed into the IFFT module. The 
number of scramblers could be more than one (e.g., Q-1) such that 
total Q possible candidates can be the transmitted OFDM symbol. 
The transmitter chooses the candidate whose PAPR’s is the 
smallest among them. Similar idea is proposed in our design as 
stated in the following. In the case of d >1, we execute the step 2 
of Q times and we choose the one whose PAPR’s is the smallest 
as the encoded symbol. 
We rearrange our encoding process as follows. Let {a1, a2, …, 
aK} be the source packets (or symbols) to be encoded, the encoded 
symbol be {b1, b2, …, bL}, where L is a predetermined value. ai is 
composed by a set of complex data {X1(i), X2(i), …, XN(i)} whose 
PAPR’s is precalculated and denoted as PAPR_ai. Let y be a 
given threshold. 
 
1. Divide the source packets {a1, a2, …, aK} into two groups. 
The first group, said G1 = {ai1, ai2, …, aim}, consists of 
those packets with PAPR’s less than y. The other packets 
{a1, a2, …, aK} - {0, …, ai1, 0, …, ai2, 0, …, aim, 0, …, 0} 
are in the second group G2. For the jth encoded symbol bj, 
generate the degree d at random from the RSD 
distribution.  
350
