appropriate for the desired machining application [3]. Once a spindle concept has been clari-
fied, detailed design specifications, such as static and dynamic stiffness levels, maximum oper-
ating speeds, power requirements, etc. are used to define the values of design variables of the
spindle system. However, in the initial stage of the high-speed spindle design, the most im-
portant consideration is that the first-mode natural frequency (FMNF) is much higher than the
maximum spindle speed; if FMNF is not high enough, forced resonance may occur [4]. It is
also worth noting that as spindle speed increases, high-speed effects on the first-mode natural
frequency of a spindle system may become more significant. To understand the complicated
thermo-mechanical-dynamic behaviors of motorized spindles during high-speed rotations, Lin
et al. [5] proposed a comprehensive, integrated finite element method (FEM) model of motor-
ized spindle systems, in which changes in bearing preload and shaft rigidity cannot be ignored.
This model has been verified on a high-speed machining testbed equipped with a custom-built,
high-performance motorized spindle [6]. The results showed that the natural frequencies of the
spindle system decreased as spindle speed increased and split into backward and forward modes
due to the high-speed effects caused by centrifugal forces and gyroscopic moments respectively.
This implies that the first-mode natural frequency of a high-speed spindle system may vary in its
life cycle, because in practice, spindle speeds usually need to be adjusted to fit applications and
machining conditions. Therefore, it is necessary for machine tool design engineers to construct
a robust, high-speed machine tool that not only possesses high first-mode natural frequencies but
also is insensitive to operating speeds, particularly when high-speed effects exist. Since there
are two objectives that seek to be optimized and, usually, the equation for finding the first-mode
natural frequency is revealed as nonlinear, the problem discussed in this paper can be catego-
rized as a nonlinear multiobjective optimization program, which may not be solved effectively
by traditional gradient-based methods.
The methods originated by Dr. Genichi Taguchi, especially the technique of parameter de-
sign, have been proved to be very efficient means to achieve robustness. Taguchi method has
been applied successfully in thousands of companies worldwide for the past 40 years, with ex-
cellent results [7]. For static problems, such as the one investigated in this paper, the Taguchi
approach divides the factors that affect product quality characteristics into two categories: the
control factors (CFs) and the noise factors (NFs). Design teams can easily specify the levels
of CFs, but cannot control NFs. Taguchi’s parameter design methodology reveals that we can
simultaneously robustize the high-speed spindle system design against noise factors, i.e. spindle
speeds, and maximize the system first-mode natural frequency by specifying the levels of the
control factors, i.e. the nominal values of design variables. In order to find the optimal levels
of the control factors, fractional factorial designs using tables of orthogonal arrays are utilized
in Taguchi method to avoid inefficiently testing all possible combinations [8]. This quality engi-
neering method has also been utilized successfully in many academic researches to find optimal
parameter levels [9, 10, 11, 12, 13? ? ? ].
In this paper, to attain robustness for high-speed spindle systems at the detailed design stage,
we use the parameter design technique of Taguchi method to determine the levels of design vari-
ables that simultaneously maximize the first-mode natural frequency and minimize the variation
caused in it by high-speed effects. First, the parameter design methodology is introduced. Then,
a comprehensive dynamic model of the motorized high-speed spindle system, as shown in Fig. 1,
is briefly discussed and the primary design variables and their levels are determined accordingly.
By applying Taguchi method, the optimal levels of these design variables are obtained and a con-
firmatory test is conducted to verify the results, and accordingly, statistically significant design
variables are identified through analysis of variance (ANOVA). Finally, a conclusion is presented
2
Figure 2. The mechanism of spindle integrated dynamic FEM model
4. Conduct experiments based on the arrangement of the orthogonal arrays.
5. Analyze the data to calculate the effects of the control factors on the quality characteristics
(i.e. SNR) and determine the optimal levels of all control factors.
6. Identify significant control factors which affect SNR through ANOVA.
7. Verify the optimal design with a confirmation numerical experiment.
As has been mentioned, the quality characteristic of the high-speed spindle system considered
in this paper is the first-mode natural frequency; this research seeks to maximize this variable.
Before the second step is described, the dynamic model of the high-speed spindle system is
introduced concisely to identify the main design variables and to demonstrate influences of the
noise factor (spindle speed) on the system’s first-mode natural frequency.
3. The Integrated FEM Model of the High-Speed Spindle System
The dynamics of high-speed motorized spindles are highly complicated because there are
several non-linear and closed-loop phenomena that interact thermally and mechanically with
each other. For design purposes, the rectangular blocks in Fig. 2 show the essential physical
models required to describe the dynamic properties of spindle systems, including an integrated
dynamic FEM model of the spindle, an FEM model of the spindle shaft, a bearing stiffness model,
a thermal preload model, a thermal expansion model, and a heat transfer model. In this paper,
the integrated FEM model developed and experimentally improved by Lin et al. [5] is applied
to optimize the motorized spindle system shown in Fig. 1 with respect to high-speed effects; the
front bearing pairs are rigidly preloaded with spacers of specific sizes and the preload is 891 N.
If the spindle shaft element is modeled as a Timoshenko beam and the displacements of each
node are assigned with four degrees of freedom (two for the lateral and two for the angular), the
integrated dynamic FEM model for the motorized spindle can be expressed as [4]
([MT ] + [MR]){q¨} − Ω[G]{q˙} + ([K] −Ω2([MT ] − [MR])){q} = {Q(t)} (2)
4
Figure 3. Elements of the spindle system
written in MATLAB to convert the above system data into a set of equations of motion; the first-
mode natural frequency can be obtained accordingly. Detailed derivations and validation of these
equations and information on the dimensions of the elements and bearings can be found in [5].
4. To-be-optimized Design Variables For Taguchi Method
In this section, the appropriate orthogonal array is determined from the DOFs of the control
factors; experiments are conducted according to the arrangement of the orthogonal array. From
an analysis of the SNR data from the experimental results, the optimal levels of control factors
are identified. ANOVA of SNR data shows the relative significance levels of control factors. To
avoid errors, only the differences made by significant control factors are considered in prediction
of the optimum FMNF; the predicted optimum is confirmed experimentally (FEM).
4.1. Orthogonal Array Experiment
To determine an appropriate orthogonal array for the control factors, the total DOF must
be obtained first. As shown in Table 1, there are 15 DOF in total; therefore, the orthogonal
array L18, one of the arrays that Taguchi most recommended for its ability to smear the effects
of interactions among several main effects [14], is selected as the inner array to arrange the
combinations of the eight control factors. The arrangement is shown in columns 2 to 9 of Table
2. In these columns, control factors A to H are in the top row, and the eighteen rows below
them, containing the numbers 1, 2, and 3, indicate the levels of the corresponding control factors
that are adjusted in each experimental run. The next 11 columns describe six speeds; all non-
zero speeds must be described twice, once for backward mode (BWM) and once for forward
mode (FWM). Centrifugal forces and gyroscopic effects cause the system FMNF to vary with
the spindle speed; they split FMNF into two different modes (BWM and FWM) at non-zero
spindle speeds. These 11 columns are the outer array for the noise factor; the spindle speeds are
on the top, ranging from 0 rpm to 25,000 rpm with a 5,000 rpm increment. An additional row
indicates the backward mode and forward mode for each speed except 0 rpm.
The experimental plan requires 18 runs. In each run, the control factors are set to the levels
shown in Table 2. For example, in run 1, level 1 is assigned to control factors “A” to “H” in the
MATLAB FEM program, and the program is executed at spindle speeds from 0 to 25,000 rpm
with a 5,000 rpm increment; this produces 11 different outcomes, as shown in the row for run 1
in Table 2. The SNR for each experimental run can be calculated by using Eq. (1); the results are
presented in the SNR column of Table 2.
6
4.2. Analysis of the SNR
From Table 2, we can calculate the total mean SNR η = 57.45. Table 3 displays the mean
SNR response table for the FMNF; the difference between the maximum and minimum values
for each control factor is shown in the column “Effect.” Following the principle that greater
SNR corresponds to higher robustness, the optimal combination of the control factor levels can
be identified from the table as A2, B2, C1, D3, E3, F3, G1, and H1, which are highlighted also
in Table 3. However, to determine the optimal combinations of the control factor levels more
accurately, one must investigate the relative importance among the control factors by ANOVA.
Table 3. Response table for average SNR of FMNF
DV Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Effect
A 57.37 57.52 0.15
B 57.44 57.46 57.44 0.02
C 58.07 57.45 56.83 1.24
D 57.41 57.45 57.49 0.08
E 57.08 57.37 57.89 0.82
F 57.22 57.47 57.66 0.45
G 57.85 57.56 56.94 0.91
H 57.77 57.42 57.16 0.60
4.3. Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)
In this paper, analysis of variance identifies the relative impacts of control factors on the
SNR of FMNF. Any control factors that do not considerably affect the SNR of FMNF can be
used at originally designed levels for the prediction of the optimal design. In the analysis, the
total sum of squared deviations S S t from the mean SNR is decomposed into two sources: the
sum of squared deviations S S c f due to each control factor and the sum of squared error S S e:
S S t = S S c f + S S e (3)
For an orthogonal array with m experiments, the S S t can be written as
S S t =
m∑
i=1
η2i −
1
m

m∑
i=1
ηi

2
(4)
where ηi is the mean SNR of the ith experiment and the degree of freedom of S S t is DOFt =
m − 1.
The sum of squared deviations S S X
c f due to a certain control factor X can be expressed as
S S Xc f =
nl∑
j=1
(
nrη
X
j
)2
nl
−
1
m

m∑
i=1
ηi

2
(5)
where nl is the number of levels that control factor X possesses, nr is the number of instances
of treatment X, ηXj is the average SNR of the control factor X at level j, and the DOF of S S Xc f
is DOFX = nl − 1. Therefore, the variance of the control factor X is VX = S S Xc f/DOFX . For
8
Figure 4. Optimal design of the high-speed spindle system
where η is the total mean SNR, ηk is the mean SNR of control factor k at its optimal level, and
uk is a zero-one function: if the control factor k is significant, uk = 1; otherwise, uk = 0. By
substitution of the corresponding ηk of the significant control factors from Table 3 into Eq. (8),
the predicted ηop can be calculated; it is shown in Table 5, where the SNR of the original design
and the actual SNR obtained directly from FEM program are also presented. From Table 5,
we can find that the predicted optimal SNR is consistent with the actual optimal SNR and the
SNR has been improved from 57.46 dB to 59.52 dB, which means that the quality loss has been
reduced to as low as 62 percent of that of the original design. The final optimal design of the
high-speed spindle system is depicted on Fig. 4 .
Table 5. Results of the confirmation experiment (FEM) for FMNF
Original design Optimal design
Levels A1 B2 C2 D2 E2 F2 G2 H2 A2 B2 C1 D2 E3 F3 G1 H1
Prediction Experiment
SNR(dB) 57.46 59.52 59.47
5. Conclusions
This paper has applied Taguchi method to the optimization of the design variables of high-
speed spindle systems. The L18 orthogonal array was used to control a total of 18 experimental
runs, covering seven main design variables at three levels each, one main design variable at two
levels, and one noise factor at six levels. Results indicate that the Taguchi parameter design ef-
ficiently determined the optimal levels of the design variables with respect to the signal-to-noise
ratio of the first-mode natural frequency. This optimized signal-to-noise ratio enhances the sys-
tem’s first-mode natural frequency and reduces the variations of the first-mode natural frequency
that occur at high speeds due to centrifugal force and gyroscopic moments. By application of
Taguchi method, the signal-to-noise ratio of the first-mode natural frequency has been improved
significantly for this high-speed spindle system design, and that the improvement has been ver-
ified by a confirmation numerical experiment. The improvement of the signal-to-noise ratio of
the first-mode natural frequency from the original design to the optimal design is about 2.06 dB,
which implies that the quality loss has been reduced to 62 percent of the original quality loss.
10
APPLICATION OF TRIZ TO SOLVE THE CONTRACTIONS OF 
DFMA GUIDELINES 
 
Chi-Wei Lin
*
 and Sih-Sian Wu 
Department of Industrial Engineering and Systems Management, 
Feng Chia University, Taichung, 40724, Taiwan 
*
cwlin@fcu.edu.tw 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
DFMA guidelines have been widely applied in product design processes to 
improve the effectiveness and efficiency. However, the contradictions arouse from 
utilizing the DFMA guidelines require to be solved fundamentally instead of by 
trade-offs. In this paper, the Contradiction Matrix of TRIZ is used to solve the 
contradictions. Firstly, the guideline applied in the product design is decided. Then, 
the affected parameters are identifies and classified into improved or deteriorated 
groups. With Identification the numbers of the Inventive Principles in the 
Contradiction Matrix, the solutions for the contradictions can be finally established. 
 
Keyword: TRIZ, DFMA 
 
INTRODUCTION 
The product design and development process (PDDP) can generally be divided into 6 
stages as planning, concept development, system-level design, detail design, testing 
and refinement, and production ramp-up (Ulrich and Eppinger, 2008). Traditionally, 
the process was usually implemented with a so-called sequential or “over-the-wall” 
approach. If this approach is adopted in PDDP, problems of product design are often 
recognized late because the information and ideas exchanges between the stages are 
limited, and later-stage participants are excluded from the decisions made earlier in 
the process. Therefore, more time and money will be actually taken than which would 
be required and poor decisions of product design are often made (Malloy, 1994; 
www.referenceforbusiness.com, 2011). For example, when manufacturing and 
assembling issues are not considered thoroughly in the system-level or detail design 
stage, the design-finalized parts may be not producible or need very expansive tools to 
manufacture. In such a situation, the process planning or manufacturing department is 
forced to return the design results to the product design department since the parts 
cannot be manufactured economically according to their current design. As a result, 
the product design project is likely to be delayed and costs may increase. 
To remove the walls between functional departments in order to improve the 
effectiveness and efficiency of PDDP, the concept of simultaneous engineering (SE) 
was proposed to replace the over-the-wall approach in the late 1970s. The philosophy 
of SE emphasized the concept of simultaneous developing the manufacturing process 
along with the product design, which was accomplished by assigning manufacturing 
representatives as members of product design teams so that they can interact with the 
design engineers and help them to solve manufacturing related problems throughout 
the design process (Ullman, 2003). In the 1980s, SE was broadened and renamed as 
concurrent engineering (CE). Except continuing the simultaneous development of 
can be established through brain storming or with the helps from experts (Kaplan, 
2005). Through these systematic problem-solving procedures, the effectiveness and 
efficiency for solving invention problems can be significantly improved. There are 
many basic problem-solving tools in TRIZ. The following introduces the Technical 
Contradictions and the Contradiction Matrix, which are the tools used in this paper. 
TABLE 1: The DFMA Guidelines 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Altshuller noticed that Technical Contradictions existed in almost all invention 
problems, which arouse from the fact that we usually wanted to improve certain 
parameters of the system; however, in the meantime, some other parameters were 
deteriorated. Traditionally, trade-off or compromise is the practical method employed 
to solve this kind of problems, which is not considered as an invention in TRIZ. TRIZ 
defines invention as a thought or concept which could surmount the contradictions 
and improve both parameters (Kaplan, 2005). 
Altshuller used the results he observed about Technical Contradictions to develop a 
classification system of invention problems. The system included 39 engineering 
parameters and 40 operators (Inventive Principles). He made a 39×39 table with the 
Engineering Parameters as the row and column headings, which is called 
Contradiction Matrix. The box in the matrix formed by the intersection of certain row 
and column represents a category of inventive problems in which the parameters in 
the row and column are in contradiction with each other, and the numbers showed in 
the box indicate the solutions for solving the contradiction. Detail information about 
the Contradiction Matrix, Engineering Parameters, and Inventive Principles can be 
found in references (Kaplan, 2005) and (www.triz-journal.com, 2011). 
No. Guideline 
1 Design for a minimum number of parts. 
2 Develop a modular design. 
3 Minimize part variations. 
4 Design parts to be multifunctional. 
5 Design parts for multiuse. 
6 Design parts for ease of fabrication. 
7 Avoid separate fasteners. 
8 Minimize assembly directions; design for top-down assembly. 
9 Maximize compliance; design for ease of assembly. 
10 Minimize handling; design for handling and presentation. 
11 Eliminate or simplify adjustments. 
12 Avoid flexible components. 
13 Minimize assembly surfaces. 
14 Maximize part symmetry. 
15 Provide parts with integral self-locking features. 
parameters are: (1) Weight of moving object, (2) Weight of stationary object, (3) 
Length of moving object, (4) Length of stationary object, (5) Area of stationary object, 
and (6) Area of stationary object. On the other hand, the likely deteriorated 
parameters include: (34) Repairability and (36) Device complexity. All the results are 
shown in Table 3. Next, for every pair formed by the parameters in the improved 
group and the deteriorated group, we could find the corresponding Inventive 
Principles to solve the contradiction. For example, if we select (1) Weight of moving 
object and (34) Repairability from the improved and deteriorated groups respectively, 
we form a contradiction problem, and the solutions could be identified from the 
Contradiction Matrix and the identification numbers in the box intersected by the 
corresponding row and column, which are 2, 27, 28, and 11. The inventive solutions 
suggested by TRIZ can be obtained by looking up the Inventive Principles indexed 
with these four numbers, which are also shown in Table 3. For example, the Inventive 
Principle (2) Extraction suggests extracting (removing or separating) a “disturbing” 
part or property, from an object, or extracting the only necessary part or property, 
which can solve the repairability problems caused by designing parts to be 
multifunctional and still keep the weight of moving part low. 
 
TABLE 3: The contradiction analysis and solution principle for “Design parts to be 
multifunctional” 
 
Design parts to be multifunctional 
Improved parameters Deteriorated parameters 
1, 2 
Weight of 
moving/stationary object 
34 Repairability 
3, 4 
Length of 
moving/stationary object 
36 Device complexity 
5, 6 
Area of moving/stationary 
object 
  
Selected contradiction parameter set 
1 Weight of moving object 34 Repairability 
Appropriate inventive principles 
2 Extraction 
27 Use an inexpensive short-lived object instead of an expensive one 
28 Replacement of a mechanical system 
11 Cushion in advance 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
DFMA guidelines have been widely applied in product design processes to improve 
the effectiveness and efficiency. However, the contradictions arouse from utilizing the 
DFMA guidelines require to be solved fundamentally instead of by trade-offs. In this 
paper, the Contradiction Matrix of TRIZ is used to solve the contradictions. Firstly, 
the guideline applied in the product design is decided. Then, the affected parameters 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                       2011年 08月 04日 
報告人姓名 林棋瑋 
服務機構 
及職稱 
逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理系 
助理教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
7/4-7/6, 2011 
泰國曼谷 
本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC 99-2221-E-035 -072 - 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)  2011年企業與資訊國際研討會 
 (英文) International Conference on Business and Information 2011 
(BAI 2011) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
APPLICATION OF TRIZ TO SOLVE THE CONTRACTIONS OF DFMA 
GUIDELINES 
BAI 2011 是一個有關企業與資訊領域的國際性研討會，今年在泰國曼谷舉行，共接獲來
自 49 國 679 篇論文投稿，經過至少兩名匿名審查者的 peer-review，最後總共有 428 篇
論文被接受，本論文亦名列其中，被安排的發表形式為 poster。 
一、參加會議經過 
 前往會議地點並參與研討會相關活動 
於7/2由桃園中正國際機場出發前往泰國曼谷，7/4早上至BAI 2011會議地點（The 
Landmark Bangkok Hotel, 138 Sukhumvit Road, Bangkok）報到並領取會議相關
文件，隨即參與研討會各項活動，至會場報到與參與活動之照片，請參考次頁。 
 回台 
7/7上午前往曼谷素萬那普國際機場搭機返台，於晚間十點多抵達桃園國際機場。 
二、與會心得 
在此會議中，除了瞭解目前企業與資訊相關領域最新的發展狀況以及未來具潛力的
方向外，還認識了來自各國的朋友，雖然在領域上未必相同，但亦能互相交流，分享研
究與治學的心得。 
由於本次會議在泰國舉行，因此許多論文的發表者皆來自泰國各地，雖然語言上有
些許隔閡，但經過多日於研討會會場的交流，對於瞭解彼此在學術上的研究有很大的助
益。 
三、建議 
本人參與本次會議的過程相當順利完美，感謝國科會計畫於經費上的襄助。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
BAI 2011 conference proceedings光碟一份。 
附
件
三 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/03
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 田口方法應用於高速工具機主軸系統穩健設計之研究
計畫主持人: 林棋瑋
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-035-072- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
