 
非均質熱電材料之 Seebeck 係數量測與模型研究 
Measurement and Modeling of Seebeck Coefficient in Thermoelectric Inhomogeneities 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-006-231 
執行期限：97 年 8 月 1 日 ~ 98 年 7 月 31 日 
執行單位：國立成功大學機械工程學系 
計畫主持人：洪振益 
計畫參與人員：吳坤憲、王健彰、蔡憲琳、徐清鈺 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
  A Potential Seebeck Microprobe apparatus is 
described such that a profile of Seebeck coefficients 
can be detected on a material sample surface for 
thermopower investigations. Due to its spatially 
resolved limit on detecting small inhomogeneities 
of dopants or composition changes, we here 
propose a constructive combination of numerical 
modelling and practical measurement to improve 
the spatial resolution by deconvolution algorithm. 
The relevant transfer function was obtained from 
numerical calculations. An improvement in 
detecting the 1.5 m inhomogeneity has been 
achieved by applying one transfer function of the 
known tip setup on a set of Seebeck line scan 
signals, obtained with 6 m tip-sample contact 
length, 3 s signal capture time after contact and 
0.75 m scan period. The result showed that a 
system theoretical approach in terms of 
deconvolution algorithm could theoretically 
enhance the spatial resolution anyway, but is 
practically limited by the systemic preconditions 
(tip size, signal capture time and scan period) and 
the signal to noise ratio of the captured 
thermovoltages. Therefore, we provide a clear 
understanding of systemic preconditions and their 
impacts on the detection of small inhomogeneities 
and thus the performance in the thermopower 
analysis.  
Keywords: thermoelectric inhomogeneities; 
Seebeck coefficient; deconvolution 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
  The efficiency of a thermoelectric device is 
limited by available thermoelectric materials whose 
performance needs to be enhanced for 
refrigerators[1,2] and power generators.[3,4] The 
performance of a thermoelectric material is 
determined by the dimensionless figure of merit, 
ZT=2T/where ,  and  are the Seebeck 
coefficient, the electrical conductivity and the 
thermal conductivity, respectively. In order to 
increase ZT, novel thermoelectric materials have 
been investigated to improve the power factor 2 
by doping[5,6] or to reduce the thermal 
conductivity  by phonon scattering.[7,8] To do so, 
researches have the demand to detect 
inhomogeneities of dopants or composition changes, 
which affect the thermoelectric properties. When 
the size of the inhomogeneity with 
nano-inclusion[9,10] becomes small, it desires to 
have a measuring technique being able to detect the 
inhomogeneity in micro- or nanoscale. Recently, 
one apparatus called Potential Seebeck Microprobe 
(PSM) has been developed[11,12] for Seebeck 
coefficient measurements. A profile of the Seebeck 
coefficients is spatially resolved on a material 
sample surface by a heated microprobe tip, which is 
positioned using a three-dimensional linear stage. 
The measurement of the Seebeck coefficient can be 
recognized as a measure of the charge-carrier 
concentration, which can be affected by chemical 
doping, dopant precipitation, impurities or 
microstructures.[13] According to the profile of the 
Seebeck coefficients, this apparatus, therefore, 
provides useful information on detecting 
microstructures and inhomogeneities on the sample 
surface. We have applied the PSM apparatus to the 
investigations of microstructures and 
inhomogeneities in thermoelectric bulk 
materials.[14,15] However, we found that the 
spatial resolution of the PSM apparatus is limited to 
about 20 m～ 50 m [16] depending on the 
thermal conductivity of the sample. The resolution 
is not efficient to detect such inhomogeneities 
whose sizes are smaller than 20 m. Lyeo et 
al.[17,18] pointed out two influencing factors on the 
resolution of a Seebeck coefficient measurement, 
Table I. In this study, the material sample was 
assumed to consist of 375 rectangular sections (Fig. 
2) at 18.75 m, in which a variation of 375 Seebeck 
values can be given in order to model 
inhomogeneities inside the sample. Assuming the 
rest of sample transport properties (Table I) as 
constants in whole sections, an ideal half-circle 
temperature zone was obtained due to the uniform 
thermal conductivity. The boundary conditions are 
also shown in Fig. 2. An electric ground terminal 
(U=0 Volt) was assigned to the microprobe and a 
temperature difference about 5 K was given by 
loading the outer nodes with temperatures T2=298 
K and T0=293 K. In addition, a switch element was 
used in order to simulate the contact process 
between tip and sample. A transient analysis was 
needed in this study, and the initial condition was 
given by a steady-state solution in which the 
thermal conductivity of the switch element was set 
to a low value of 10-6 W/K-m, yielding a uniform 
temperature of 298 K for the heated tip while the 
sample temperature remained constant at 293 K. 
After resetting the thermal conductivity of the 
switch element to 400 W/K-m, the tip started to 
contact the material sample for the transient 
analysis. The nodal solution yielded a temperature 
T1 and an electric potential U1 as shown in Fig. 2. 
Therefore, we used Eq. (2) to calculate the local 
Seebeck coefficient s caused by the temperature 
difference T1-T0, which was known from the nodal 
simulation results. 
 
 
FIG. 2. Schematic of the PSM model. 
 
TABLE I. General properties of copper and bismuth 
telluride at room temperature 
 
 
C. Seebeck signal by line scan microprobe 
  A signal is a function of time or space that 
represents a physical variable of interest associated 
with a system. The discrete-space Seebeck signal as 
a function of local Seebeck coefficient and position 
is shown in Fig. 3, in which a rectangular function 
was given via 375 sections as an inhomogeneous 
sample. Then, a line scan microprobe sequentially 
captured a line of local Seebeck coefficients 
simulated by ANSYS on the sample. The lateral 
scan period (sampling period) of the line scan was 
0.75 m and each local Seebeck coefficient is a 
sampling value of the temperature zone. In case of a 
voltage evaluation at 3µs after contact, the Seebeck 
signal was blurred by the wide temperature zone, 
which covers different phases of the sample 
material as shown in Fig. 4. Especially at the area 
near the tip edge the temperature contour reveals 
strong temperature gradient whose contribution to 
thermovoltage is high. To determine the Seebeck 
signal distortion caused by the heat spreading, the 
signals were analyzed for different tip sizes and 
signal capture times as well. We used a Digital 
Signal Processing (DSP) approach by means of a 
deconvolution algorithm, which basically applies 
the transfer function of the PSM setup to a 
backward Fourier Transform of the sampled 
Seebeck coefficient course in order to recover the 
original Seebeck signal of the material sample.  
 
 
FIG. 3. Seebeck signal calculated by 6 m tip at 3 
s signal capture time after contact. 
 
 
FIG. 4. Temperature contour showing strong 
temperature gradient near the tip edge. 
 
system for sine shaped courses at discrete 
frequencies. Thus, a rectangular shaped Seebeck 
function was chosen first to be simulated (see Fig. 3) 
since it represents a local inclusion within a 
surrounding matrix and thus can be recognized as a 
typical inhomogeneity shape on a material sample 
surface. In order to allow for a consistent 
comparison between the damping of discrete sine 
functions of Seebeck coefficients and the transfer 
behavior for a composed input signal, the width of 
the rectangular function was set to approximately 
14 µm in order to ensure a similar overall spectral 
bandwidth of the investigated input signals. 
Furthermore both simulations were performed with 
identical tip and contact dimensions and based on 
the same signal capture time. 
-800000 -600000 -400000 -200000 0 200000 400000 600000 800000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
M
ag
ni
tu
de
Frequency
 rectangular signal 
 sinusoidal signal
 
FIG. 8. A comparison of the transfer functions 
obtained from rectangular and sinusoidal 
functions of Seebeck coefficient. 
Figure 8 gives the spectral comparison between 
the system transfer characteristic for the rectangular 
(Fig. 3) and the sinusoidal (Fig. 5) input functions. 
Good accordance was obtained at low frequencies 
from -666666 to 666666 m-1, where the bandwidth 
of the signal spectrum is small enough in relation to 
the period of contributing harmonics to ensure an 
appropriate signal sampling in terms of the 
Nyquist-Shannon sampling theorem. Whereas 
certain higher frequency contributions of the 
rectangular function, which exceed the applied 
sampling rate by far, provide distortion or artifacts 
that causes different continuous signals to become 
indistinguishable, which is called aliasing. 
Furthermore the Fourier Transform procedure 
applies particular window functions on the 
measured spatial Seebeck coefficient curves, which 
yields an additional convolution of the spectra of 
the window function and the damped input signals, 
also known as leakage effect. This results in 
frequency side bands, which affect the original 
spectrum of the sampled input functions. 
Nevertheless the results confirm the superposition 
principle to be satisfied by the PSM apparatus 
method and in particular it confirms and provides 
information about the cut off frequency of the 
actual system transfer characteristic.  
 
B. Improvement of spatial resolution 
In order to examine the deconvolution on 
different inhomogeneities, a triangular function and 
a rawtooth function, assumed as original input 
inhomogeneous signals, were modeled and the 
calculated signals were simulated by ANSYS with 
identical 6µm tip. For a real measurement, the 
measured data by PSM are based on the captured 
thermovoltages by tip after thermal excitation and 
the signal should be converted from analog to 
digital. From signal processing viewpoint, the 
captured signal (the calculated signal by ANSYS or 
the measured signal by PSM) could be decomposed 
into a linear combination of sine functions due to 
superposition principle to be satisfied in this study. 
Analyzing the calculated signal spectrum through 
FFT, we used the transfer characteristic, same from 
the rectangular input function (Fig. 3), to divide and 
therefore deconvolute each amplitude individually 
at different discrete frequencies (from -666666 to 
666666 m-1). Then this deconvoluted spectrum in 
whole spectral domain was converted to space 
domain by backward FFT. To compare the 
deconvoluted signal with the original signal, the 
identical curve can be reconstructed theoretically as 
shown in Fig. 9. Due to superposition, the transfer 
function from rectangular inhomogeneity (function) 
can be conveniently applied on the measured 
signals, which are detected on various 
inhomogeneous material samples. That is, this 
transfer function can be found through a simple 
simulation or a measurement setup and then be used 
for the improvement of the PSM spatial resolution 
on different inhomogeneous cases, if the tip setup is 
fixed and touches the sample surface perfectly to 
ensure an identical thermal gradient within the 
sample.    
-0.02 0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16 0.18 0.20
0
5
10
15
20
25
30a
Lo
ca
l S
ee
be
ck
 c
oe
ffi
ci
en
t [
V
/K
]
Position [mm]
 original signal
 calculated signal
 deconvoluted signal
 
meter, or fs=1/T. As the result, the sampling 
frequency was cut by a signal filter from -666666 to 
666666 m-1, which included the maximum 
frequency, in order to withdraw a whole 
fundamental frequency without other harmonic 
frequencies. Thus, the measured signal could be 
reconstructed due to the most signal power 
reservation within the cut off frequency. For PSM, 
the amount of line scan points is determined by the 
tip scan period, which has influence on the 
measured time of the Seebeck profile. Taking too 
dense scan period on a big inhomogeneity leads to 
time-consuming whereas too sparse scan period on 
a small inhomogeneity causes signal aliasing, which 
in general overlaps the waves leading to signal 
distortion. Such a cut off frequency regarding the 
appropriate scan period could be predicted here to 
save the measured time of tip scanning. In this study, 
it was concluded that the practically  measured 
signal by PSM on detecting 1.5 m inhomogeneity 
could be recognized from analog to digital at least 
by 0.75 m scan period when using the 6 m tip 
and the 3 s capture time. Then the transfer 
function, derived from numerical work, was applied 
to this digital, practical resolved signal to 
reconstruct the original, real desired signal of the 
1.5 m inhomogeneity.  
 
-800000 -600000 -400000 -200000 0 200000 400000 600000 800000
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Frequency
A
m
pl
itu
de
Cut off frequency
 
FIG. 11. The spectrum of the measured signal by the 
systemic preconditions on the 1.5 m 
inhomogeneity sample. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
A first attempt to improve the spatial resolution 
of the local Seebeck coefficient measurements by 
theoretical method was done in this study. The 
possible spatial resolution improvement in detecting 
a small 1.5 m inhomogeneity by the 6 m tip 
setup (3 s signal capture time and 0.75 m scan 
period) was carried out using a deconvolution 
algorithm. Additionally, it is of interest due to the 
convenience to inverse a set of Seebeck line scan 
signals to a better resolution by one corresponding 
transfer function of the known tip setup. This 
finding therefore provides an effective route for 
spatial resolution improvement of Seebeck 
coefficient measurements. Besides, we observed 
that the analysis of the measured signal was 
affected significantly by the systemic precondition 
due to the wide temperature zone size. One 
parameter of the systemic precondition, related with 
the tip scan period, was investigated to provide the 
information of the cut off frequency for the A/D 
converter to ensure the measured signal 
reconstruction. An appropriate scan period 
according to the cut off frequency in this study can 
furthermore save the measured time instead of 
oversampling. We therefore suggest that the signal 
processing work in terms of deconvolution can be 
integrated with the Seebeck microprobe 
measurement due to the numerical assistances of 
spatial resolution improvement and the measured 
time-saving. The applicability of deconvolution 
may improve this Potential Seebeck Microprobe 
technique, which is a powerful tool to detect the 
thermopower of the inhomogeneities for bulk 
thermoelectric material investigations when 
nanocomposites or microstructures are embedded to 
enhance the thermoelectric performance. Future 
research might usefully extend the present use of 
two-dimensional model to three-dimensional model 
to examine the impact of the inhomogeneity shape.  
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] J. G. Vian and D. Astrain, Appl. Therm. Eng. 
28, 1514 (2008).   
[2] B. Poudel, Q. Hau, Y. Ma, Y. Lan, A. Minnich, 
B. Yu, X. Yan, D. Wang, A. Muto, D. Vashaee, 
X. Chen, J. Liu, M. S. Dresselhaus, G. Chen, 
and Z. Ren, Science 320, 634 (2008). 
[3] K. F. Hsu, S. Loo, F. Guo, W. Chen, J. S. Dyck, 
C. Uher, T. Hogan, E. K. Polychroniadis, and 
M. G. Kanatzidis, Science 303, 818 (2004). 
[4] X. B. Zhao, H. Y. Chen, E. Mueller, and C. 
Drasar, Appl. Phys. A 80, 1123 (2005). 
[5] H. Y. Chen, X. B. Zhao, C. Stiewe, D. Platzek, 
and E. Mueller, J. Alloy. Compd. 433, 338 
(2007). 
[6] Z. Dashevsky, S. Shusterman, M. P. Dariel, 
and I. Drabkin, J. Appl. Physi. 92, 1425 
(2002). 
[7] R. Yang and G. Chen, Phys. Rev. B 72, 125418 
(2004). 
[8] Z. He, C. Stiewe, D. Platzek, G. Karpinski, E. 
Mueller, S. Li, M. Toprak, and M. Muhammed, 
