IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ELECTRON DEVICES, VOL. 53, NO. 6, JUNE 2006 1373
Gate Capacitances Behavior of Nanometer FD SOI
CMOS Devices With HfO2 High-k Gate Dielectric
Considering Vertical and Fringing Displacement
Effects Using 2-D Simulation
Yu-Sheng Lin, Chia-Hong Lin, James B. Kuo, Fellow, IEEE, and Ke-Wei Su
Abstract—This paper reports the gate–source (drain)/source
(drain)–gate capacitance behavior of 100-nm fully depleted
silicon-on-insulator CMOS devices with HfO2 high-k gate dielec-
tric considering vertical and fringing displacement effects. Based
on the two-dimensional simulation results, a unique two-step
CS(D)G/CGS versus VG curve could be identified for the device
with the 1.5-nm HfO2 gate dielectric due to the vertical and
fringing displacement effects.
Index Terms—Capacitance, CMOSFETs, permittivity, silicon-
on-insulator (SOI) technology.
I. INTRODUCTION
S ILICON-ON-INSULATOR (SOI) technology has been re-garded as another mainstream technology for realizing sub-
100-nm CMOS very large scale integration (VLSI) because
of its intrinsic properties [1]. Recently, HfO2 high-k ultrathin
dielectric material has been used to implement sub-100-nm
CMOS devices with a thin gate dielectric to reduce gate leakage
[2], [3]. Similarly, HfO2 high-k ultrathin dielectric material
deposited by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) has also been
used as the gate dielectric to realize sub-100-nm SOI CMOS
devices for the purpose of reducing gate leakage current [4],
[5]. For CMOS devices in the nanometer regime, fringing
electric field via the sidewall spacer cannot be neglected
[6]–[10]. The effects of the fringing electric field on the device
and circuit performance has been reported [11]. In fact, both
the vertical electric field in the center channel and the fringing
electric filed in the sidewall spacer are important in determining
the capacitance behavior of an fully depleted (FD) SOI CMOS
device with a high-k gate dielectric. Until now, no paper
addresses the capacitance behavior of the 100-nm FD SOI
CMOS devices using high-k gate dielectric. In this paper, analy-
Manuscript received September 30, 2005; revised January 4, 2006. This work
was supported in part by the National Science Council and in part by the Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company under research grants. The review of
this paper was arranged by Editor C.-Y. Lu.
Y.-S. Lin, C.-H. Lin, and J. B. Kuo are with the Department of Electri-
cal Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei 106-17, Taiwan, R.O.C.
(e-mail: jbkuo@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw).
K.-W. Su is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan
University, Taipei 106-17, Taiwan, R.O.C. He is also with the Taiwan Semicon-
ductor Manufacturing Company, Hsinchu 300, Taiwan, R.O.C.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TED.2006.873847
Fig. 1. 2-D electric field contours in the 100-nm FD SOI NMOS device with
1.5-nm (a) HfO2 and (b) silicon oxide gate dielectrics, which are biased at
VD = 1 V and VG = 0.8 V.
sis of the gate capacitance phenomenon of 100-nm FD SOI
CMOS devices with HfO2 high-k gate dielectric considering
the vertical and fringing displacement effect is described. It
will be shown that a unique two-step CS(D)G/CGS versus VG
curve exists for the 100-nm FD SOI NMOS device with the
1.5-nm HfO2 gate dielectric due to the vertical and fringing
displacement effects. In the following sections, the capacitance
behavior of the 100-nm SOI NMOS device with the high-k gate
dielectric is described first, which is followed by a discussion.
II. CAPACITANCE BEHAVIOR
Fig. 1 shows the cross section of the 100-nm FD SOI NMOS
device under study. It has an n+ poly gate of 100 nm in
length, a thin film of 20-nm doped with a p-type density of
2× 1018 cm−3, a 50-nm lightly doped drain (LDD) region
doped with an n-type density of 8× 1018 cm−3 under a sidewall
spacer and a buried oxide of 310 nm. In order to study the thin
gate dielectric effect on the capacitance behavior, silicon oxide
and HfO2 gate dielectric of 1.5 nm (physical thickness) have
been used in the device. In addition, an HfO2 gate dielectric
of 7.7 nm, which has an identical effective thickness as that
of the 1.5-nm silicon oxide [effective oxide thickness (EOT)],
0018-9383/$20.00 © 2006 IEEE
LIN et al.: BEHAVIOR OF NANOMETER FD SOI CMOS DEVICES WITH HfO2 HIGH-k GATE DIELECTRIC 1375
Fig. 3. Increment of electron density (∆nc) profile along the U-shaped edges
of the poly gate of the FD SOI NMOS device with the 1.5-nm/7.7-nm HfO2
gate dielectric, which is biased at VD = 1 and ∆VS = 10 mV.
Fig. 4. Increment of electron density (∆nc) profile in the lateral channel of
the FD SOI NMOS device with the 1.5-nm/7.7-nm HfO2 gate dielectric, which
is biased at VD = 1 and ∆VG of 10 mV.
is strongly related to the vertical displacement in the center
channel and the fringing displacement at the right and the left
edges of the poly gate. The source–gate capacitance is de-
fined as CS(D)G = dQS(D)/dVG, where QS(D) is the weighted
total net charge in the lateral channel for the source (drain)
node [16].
From the definition, CGS is related to the increment of the
electron density (∆nc) profile along the U-shaped edges of the
poly gate of the FD SOI NMOS device with the 1.5-nm/7.7-nm
HfO2 gate dielectric, which is biased at VD = 1 V and ∆VS =
10 mV as shown in Fig. 3. Similarly, CSG is related to the
increment of the electron density ∆nc profile in the lateral
channel of the FD SOI NMOS device with the 1.5-nm/7.7-nm
HfO2 gate dielectric, which is biased at VD = 1 V and ∆VG =
10 mV as shown in Fig. 4. In Figs. 3 and 4, when VG − VTH
increases from 0 to 0.5 V, the device is in saturation, and the
increment of the electron density (∆nc) profile spreads more
quickly from the source side to the drain side for the 1.5-nm
HfO2 case as compared to the 7.7-nm case. When VG − VTH
is equal to 0.5 V, the ∆nc profile reaches the drain side. After
0.5 V, a further increase in VG − VTH does not cause a rapid
increase in the ∆nc profile, which is strongly correlated to
the first-stage saturation of the CGS and the CSG/CDG curves
as shown in Fig. 2. This first-stage saturation continues until
VG − VTH reaches 0.8 V. As shown in Fig. 3, when VG − VTH
is greater than 0.8 V, a further rapid increase in the ∆nc profile
could be seen, which is also related to the rapid rise in the CGS
and the CSG/CDG curves in the linear region.
Both vertical and fringing displacements affect the perfor-
mance of the capacitance behavior of the FD SOI NMOS
device. The vertical displacement effect is through the center
channel. First-stage saturation of the capacitance curve is due
to the saturation of the vertical displacement in the center
channel. The fringing displacement effect is via the sidewall
spacer, which could be demonstrated via different dielectric
materials of air, silicon oxide, and nitride with various dielectric
constants. As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, at the first-stage saturation
of the capacitance curve such as CGS, the one associated
with the air sidewall spacer is flat, whereas it is with some
positive slope for the case with the silicon oxide sidewall spacer
and with a larger slope for the case with the nitride sidewall
spacer. For the sidewall spacer using a dielectric with a higher
dielectric constant such as nitride, the fringing displacement
effect is stronger. This confirms the importance of the fringing
displacement via the sidewall spacer. Although at the first-
stage saturation of the capacitance curve the saturated vertical
displacement in the center channel plays the dominant role, the
fringing displacement via the sidewall spacer is still important
in determining the capacitance behavior. For the case with
the sidewall spacer using the dielectric material with a larger
dielectric constant, the larger slope in the first-stage saturation
region of the capacitance curve confirms the influence of the
fringing displacement. Hence, using the dielectric material with
a higher dielectric constant as the sidewall spacer, the two-step
capacitance behavior may be reduced.
Fig. 5 shows the electric field profile (a) along the U-shaped
edges of the poly gate and (b) in the lateral channel at the
dielectric side and the silicon side of the FD SOI NMOS
device with 1.5-nm/7.7-nm HfO2 and 1.5-nm silicon oxide gate
dielectrics. As shown in Fig. 5(b), at the silicon side of the gate
dielectric/silicon interface, the vertical electric field is small
for all three cases. In addition, the 1.5-nm HfO2 case has a
smaller vertical electric field in the lateral center at the gate
dielectric side as compared to the 1.5-nm silicon oxide case.
In Fig. 5, the two-step CGS and CSG/CDG curve behavior is
not just due to the vertical electric field alone. It is also due to
the combination of the gate dielectric constant and the vertical
electric field—the displacement effect. Although the 1.5-nm
HfO2 case has a smaller vertical electric field, its displacement,
which is the product of the gate dielectric constant and the
electric field, is much larger as compared to the 1.5-nm silicon
oxide case. Therefore, the two-step CGS and CSG/CDG curve
behavior is caused predominantly by the vertical displacement
effects.
LIN et al.: BEHAVIOR OF NANOMETER FD SOI CMOS DEVICES WITH HfO2 HIGH-k GATE DIELECTRIC 1377
Fig. 7. Equivalent capacitance model for CGS.
dielectric constant, it is with an increased slope in this first-
saturation region because of a stronger fringing capacitance
(CFDL) from the fringing displacement via the sidewall spacer.
At VG − VTH = 0.8 V, the device enters the triode region,
and the right side of the lateral channel starts to have elec-
trons. Thus, any small change in the source voltage (∆VS)
causes a substantial change in ∆nc at the right side. Thus,
CVDR is no longer negligible. Instead, CGS is composed of
all three components—CGS = CFDL + CVDL + CVDR. Due
to the nonnegligible CVDR, a further increase in the gate
voltage leads to another quick increase of CGS—the two-
step capacitance curve. When the thickness of the HfO2 gate
dielectric increases, the importance of CVDR becomes smaller.
Thus, the two-step capacitance curve phenomenon is reduced
for the case with the increased HfO2 thickness. Using a gate
dielectric with a smaller dielectric constant, the importance of
CVDR is also reduced—the two-step capacitance curve is also
recessed. A similar reasoning for the two-step curves of the
CSG/CDG cases could be obtained. When VG − VTH is smaller
(the device is biased in the saturation region), a small increase
in the gate voltage (∆VG) may not cause a sufficient ∆nc,
which explains the first saturation of the capacitance curve.
When VG − VTH > 0.8 V (device in the triode region), a small
increase in the gate voltage ∆VG may bring in a large increase
in ∆nc; thus, CSG/CDG rises quickly, which is the second
quick-rise region. Therefore, the two-step capacitance curve
exists forCSG/CDG, too. Due to the weighting of the net charge
in the lateral channel, during the second quick-rise region, the
slope of the CDG curve is larger as compared to CSG.
For SOI CMOS devices with a thin gate dielectric, gate
leakage current could impact the device performance substan-
tially. Fig. 8 shows the CSG/CDG versus VG − VTH curve of
the 100-nm FD SOI NMOS device with a gate dielectric of
1.5 nm silicon oxide/7.7 nm HfO2/1.5 nm HfO2 and a silicon
Fig. 8. CSG/CDG versus VG−VTH curve of the 100-nm FD SOI NMOS
device with a gate dielectric of 1.5 nm silicon oxide/7.7 nm HfO2/1.5 nm
HfO2 and a silicon oxide sidewall spacer, which is biased at VD = 1 V, with
and without the gate tunneling leakage current.
oxide sidewall spacer, which is biased at VD = 1 V, with and
without the gate leakage current, using the tunneling model
with the tunneling parameters as described in [15]. As shown
in the figure, with a gate dielectric of 1.5 nm, for the case with
either silicon oxide or HfO2, the perturbation of the curves
while considering the gate tunneling leakage current (dashed
line) from the ones without considering it is more noticeable as
compared to the case with the gate dielectric of 7.7 nm HfO2.
Thus, the gate tunneling leakage current does have an impact on
the capacitance behavior of an SOI CMOS device with a very
thin gate dielectric.
IV. CONCLUSION
In this paper, the gate capacitance behavior of 100-nm FD
SOI CMOS devices with HfO2 high-k gate dielectric consider-
ing vertical and fringing displacement effect has been reported.
According to the 2-D simulation results, a unique two-step
CS(D)G/CGS versus VG curve exists for the device with the
1.5-nm HfO2 gate dielectric due to the vertical and fringing
displacement effects.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank O. G. S. Lin of the National
Taiwan University for his kind help on simulation.
REFERENCES
[1] J. B. Kuo and S. C. Lin, Low-Voltage SOI CMOS VLSI Devices and
Circuits. New York: Wiley, 2001.
[2] C. Hobbs, H. Tseng, K. Reid, B. Taylor, L. Dip, L. Hebert, R. Garcia,
R. Hegde, J. Grant, D. Gilmer, A. Franke, V. Dhandapani, M. Azrak,
L. Prabhu, R. Rai, S. Bagchi, J. Conner, S. Backer, F. Dumbuya,
B. Nguyen, and P. Tobin, “80 nm poly-Si gate CMOS with HfO2 gate
dielectric,” in IEDM Tech. Dig., 2001, pp. 651–654.
[3] K. G. Anil, A. Veloso, S. Kubicek, T. Schram, E. Augendre, J. F.
de Marneffe, K. Devriendt, A. Lauwers, S. Brus, K. Henson, and
S. Biesemans, “Demonstration of fully Ni-silicided metal gates on HfO2
based high-k gate dielectrics as a candidate for low power applications,”
in VLSI Symp. Tech. Dig., 2004, pp. 190–191.
