 遠距居家照護系統設計-子計畫二: 
照護家用閘道系統設計(III) 
計畫主持人：陳俊良 
計畫參與人員：陸錫峰、連國辰 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2218-E-259-001 
執行期間：95 年 10 月 1 日至 96 年 9 月 30 日 
執行單位：國立東華大學資訊工程系暨研究所 
 
一、中文摘要 
運用先進的資通訊技術，針對某些疾
病，發展可行且完善的智慧型遠距居家照護
系統，不但能解決高齡化社會中，醫療院所
病床不足與醫護人員人力不足的問題，也可
以提高全民醫療品質。本計畫建置了一套整
合先進科技的智慧型遠距居家照護系統。在
居家環境中以照護家用閘道 (Residential 
Gateway)為中心，負起連接外界廣域網路與
居家照護設備管理的功能。居家照護設備的
設計，整合無線與有線通信技術與無線感測
器(Wireless Sensor Node)，以收集必要的醫
療數據。在醫療院所的遠距居家照護監控中
心，我們設計了醫療專家診斷系統，針對病
患之病歷，分析所收集的醫療數據而做出診
斷，提供建議給監控照護人員或值班醫師，
醫療人員可依照需求，透過照護家用閘道更
改監測醫療設備的設定，或者下載新的應用
程式到家用閘道，以進行其他醫療的行為。 
若情況緊急，則可呼叫 110 將病患送醫。  
在透過無線與有線通信技術與無線感測
器，收集居家照護病患生理醫療數據時，由
於家庭網路中，網路通信與醫療感測器的多
樣與異質性，需要一套中介軟體(Middleware)
來提供應用程式設計者一個統一的程式設
計界面(API)，以方便與居家照護前後端的
應用系統整合，並且加速遠距居家照護系統
應用的發展。本計劃第三年計劃即依此需求
設計了一套全新的遠距居家照護中介軟
體，並且基於該中介軟體，我們設計了一套
家庭居家照護病患生理醫療數據監控系
統，以驗證其可行性。並且，經由家庭居家
照護病患生理醫療數據資料庫功能，完成與
其他子系統整合的任務。 
關鍵詞：遠距居家照護、感測、家用閘道、
人工智慧、中介軟體 
 
二、英文摘要 
Abstract- This project proposed a novel 
architecture of middleware for tele-homecare 
system with wireless sensor network. The 
middleware is located at the residential 
gateway and the sensor network of 
tele-homecare system to provide an 
infrastructure for tele-homecare applications. 
The architecture includes three layers: device 
management layer, data management layer 
and application layer. Vital signs sensing is 
achieved by wireless sensor node integrated 
with medical device or by sensors connected 
with serial link. The three-layer middleware is 
defined as the software above the medical 
sensor network but below the application 
program that provides a common 
programming abstraction for tele-homecare 
system.  Device management layer includes 
an agent manager and one agent for each 
sensor node. Agent talks with each sensor 
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007 
 
Abstract — This paper proposed a novel architecture of 
middleware for tele-homecare system. The architecture 
includes three layers: device management layer, data 
management layer and application layer. Vital signs sens-
ing is achieved by wireless sensor node integrated with 
medical device or by sensors connected with serial link. The 
three-layer middleware is defined as the software above the 
medical sensor network but below the application program 
that provides a common programming abstraction for 
tele-homecare system. An application— Tele-Homecare 
Household Monitor System—was implemented and evalu-
ated based on the proposed middleware. 
 
Keywords— Tele-Homecare System, Sensing, Residential 
Gateway, Middleware, OSGi Platform. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The use of new technologies to provide remote 
healthcare is a growing trend in the world. The aging 
population and the push for more efficient delivery of 
hospital services have fueled this growing demand ur-
gently. In this paper, we propose a middleware for 
tele-homecare system to fulfill this need. The 
tele-homecare system includes four parts: wired or 
wireless sensor node for data sensing, residential gate-
way (RG), diagnosis system for prediction, regression 
analysis and mobile SoC. WSN [2-8] for vital signs 
sensing and acquisition is an embedded system, which 
integrated the wireless sensor node and medical devices. 
RG serves two primary purposes: as a communication 
gateway between the home and the outside world, and as 
a hub to connect and manage tele-homecare appliances 
in the home. The Open Services Gateway Initiative 
(OSGi) meets these requirements by providing various 
wide area network accesses and a managed, extensible 
framework to connect various devices in a local network.  
Middleware is a class of software technologies de-
signed to help manage the complexity and heterogeneity 
inherent in distributed systems. It is defined as a layer of 
software above the operating system but below the ap-
plication program that provides a common programming 
abstraction across a distributed system. In doing so, it 
provides a higher-level building block for programmers 
than Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) such as 
sockets that are provided by the operating system. This 
significantly reduces the burden on application pro-
grammers by relieving them of this kind of tedious and 
error-prone programming. 
In the tele-homecare system we need many medical 
devices for the vital sign monitoring and collocation. 
These medical devices are required and optional medical 
devices. The required medical devices include two-way 
interactive video, telephonic stethoscope and blood 
pressure and pulse. The optional medical devices include 
oximetry, the EKG, glucose meter and temperature. 
There are also many available wired and wireless com-
munication protocols in the home networking environ-
ment such as serial link, USB, IEEE1394, power line, 
wireless LAN, Bluetooth, or other wireless protocols. 
This variety of devices and protocols make it quit a 
challenge for application programmer. As shown in Fig. 
1, there are many medical wired or wireless sensors from 
different vendors and these sensors are connected by 
heterogeneous network technologies such as serial link, 
wired or wireless LAN or USB etc.  
 
 
Fig. 1.  The Architecture of Tele-homecare System. 
 
There are maybe two or more tele-homecare work-
stations for vital sign monitoring and collocation. The 
tele-homecare workstations play the role of sink nodes in 
WSNs. However, it is possible that the tele-homecare 
workstation is installed on the residential gateway for the 
simplest case of taking care of only one patient at the 
fixed place. If there are two or more tele-homecare 
workstations, the system will provide fault tolerance for 
the failure of the tele-homecare workstation by multiple 
routes for sensing data transmission. Moreover, a 
tele-homecare workstation could be a PDA for medical 
stuff to collect vital signs data of patients when they visit 
the patients. 
It is possible that there is more than one patient to be 
taken car of in home. The proposed middleware for 
tele-homecare system is designed to help manage the 
complexity and heterogeneity inherent in the variety of 
Hsi-Feng Lu Jiann-Liang Chen 
Department of Computer Science and Information En-
gineering, 
Department of Computer Science and Information En-
gineering, 
National Dong Hwa University National  Dong Hwa University 
Hualien, Taiwan, ROC Hualien, Taiwan, ROC 
e-mail: d9221005@em92.ndhu.edu.tw e-mail: lchen@mail.ndhu.edu.tw 
Design of Middleware of Wireless Sensor Network for 
Tele-Homecare Systems 
Glucose meter
Stethoscope
Philips C3 
Monitor 
Wireless 
Medical 
sensors 
Serial Link 
Tele-homecare 
workstation 
LAN
Residential 
Gateway 
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007 
of the sensor node and timestamp of the event. 
Both push-based and pull-based updates of registry 
contents are applied in the middleware design. When the 
sensing data is transmitted, the statuses of the sensor 
node are piggy packed into the data packet. The 
tele-homecare workstation update its registry contents as 
the sensing data is received. It is also necessary for the 
tele-homecare workstation to query the statuses of the 
sensor nodes periodically to find the fail nodes. 
A. Device management layer 
Device management layer includes an agent manager 
and one agent for each sensor node. Agent talks with 
each sensor node directly. Agent manager is responsible 
for managing these agents. The function block of agent 
manager is shown in Fig. 3. The agent manager provides 
TCP/IP and RS232 connection now. Each sensor node 
needs a sensor node controller to communicate with it. In 
wireless sensor network, there are possible many sensor 
nodes connected with tele-homecare system through one 
serial link. Redirector in agent manager redirects the vital 
sign data and device status data to the data manager layer. 
Redirector also redirects the management commands 
from data management layer to the designated sensor 
node controller. Each sensor node needs to be registered 
by UPnP in the agent manager with its physical node id 
and connection port. 
 
TCP/IP
Connector
RS232
Connector
Sensor
Node 
Controller 1
Sensor
Node 
Controller 2
Sensor
Node 
Controller n
…
Redirector
Agent Manager
 
Fig. 3.  The Agent Manager of Middleware. 
B. Data management layer 
In data management layer, there are six function 
blocks: uni-plateform, connection management, monitor, 
user interface, routing management and message man-
agement.  
The vital sign data redirected by redirector come to 
message management. Message management processes 
these data, stores them in the local database and passes 
them to application layer. This processing includes data 
filtering and aggregation. When the message needs to be 
redirected to another sink node, message management 
forward the message as routing table specified.  
Sensor node status data is redirected to monitor. 
Monitor logs the sensor node status data for future query 
and prompts message to the user interface if it is an ur-
gent situation such as sensor node dead or connection 
failure. User can examine vital sign data and check sys-
tem status and manage the tele-homecare system with the 
user interface function. 
Uni-plateform hides the heterogonous underline 
communication protocols and provides a uniform inter-
face to routing management and connection manage-
ment.  
Routing management is designed for data routing 
function when there are more than two tele-homecare 
workstations in home. This function could enhance the 
flexibility and fault tolerance of tele-homecare system.  
Connection management provides link construction 
and destroy, data transmission start and stop abstraction 
for application layer or other functions in data manage-
ment layer as shown in Fig. 4. Because of the high pos-
sibility of more than two patients in home, connection 
management provides the function to group sensor nodes 
into one logical name to indicate the vital sign data be-
longing to one person. Moreover, grouping of sensor 
nodes and logical naming make the sensor node man-
agement very convenient and efficient for users and 
remote managers. 
Sensor node identifier
Logical sensor node
Naming system
Connection command
Connection Management
 
Fig. 4.  The Connection Management of Middleware. 
 
User interface provides the display of current and 
historical monitoring data of patients, interactive con-
figurations and statuses of tele-homecare sensor nodes.  
C. Applicationt layer 
Based on the device management layer and data 
management layer, programmers can develop 
tele-homecare applications such as remote medical 
center monitoring system, home monitoring system and 
mobile tele-homecare monitoring system. 
IV. ALGORITHMS AND DESIGNS OF MIDDLEWARE 
COMPONENTS 
Based on the device management layer and data 
management layer, programmers can develop 
tele-homecare applications such as remote medical 
center monitoring system, home monitoring system and 
mobile tele-homecare monitoring system. 
 
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007 
Sensor nodes
Logical nodes
Patient 1
Patient 2
 
Fig. 8.  Logical Sensor Node Naming. 
 
E. Monitor Algorithm 
Monitor receives messages from sensor nodes in 
configuration phase. Also, the error notification of 
message forwarding is directed from message manage-
ment. Additionally, the piggy packed sensor node status 
is extracted from the sensed message and passed to 
monitor by message management. Fig. 6 displays the 
flow chart of the monitor algorithm. Monitor examines 
the types of errors, updates the registry contents and fires 
an alarm to user interface. With the user interface display 
and the standard system beep, tele-homecare users are 
reminded of errors in the system such as battery low of 
some sensor node or link errors of message transmission. 
Proper actions like replacement of a battery are taken by 
users to keep the tele-homecare system working suc-
cessfully. 
 
Start
Stop
Conf. Msg.?
Battery Low?
Received Msg
Notify
User
Interface
Link Error?
Update
Registry
Contents
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
No
 
Fig. 9.  The Flow Chart of Monitor. 
V. IMPLEMENTATION AND EVALUATION 
The prototype of proposed middleware had been im-
plemented on OSGi-based (Oscar) residential gateway of 
the tele-homecare system as a bundle. It is tested with 
serial-connected Philips C3 monitor and se-
rial-connected wireless Tinyos sensor network. Based on 
the proposed middleware layer, an application 
Tele-Homecare Household Monitor System is developed 
as a test-bed in Java Language. The sensor node statuses 
and properties are shown in Fig. 10. Users also can turn 
on or turn off any sensor on designated sensor node with 
this interface. 
 
 
Fig. 10. Display of Sensor Node Statuses and Properties. 
 
Fig. 11 illustrates the display of logical sensor node 
naming function. Users assign sensors belonging to a 
sensor node to a logical sensor nod (patient ID) to form a 
group. Grouping helps users to manage sensors in 
tele-homecare system efficiently and provides flexibility 
to the system. Additionally, logical sensor node name is 
helpful to query desired data from the historical log and 
visualize the vital signs of patients. 
 
 
Fig. 11.  Display of Logical Sensor Node Naming. 
 
The current sensed data of a patient is depicted in Fig. 
12. Click on the button, where the data is displayed, users 
can get the refresh of sensed data. 
 
 
Fig. 12.  Display of Patient Sensed Data. 
