摘要 
 
本計畫將對圓極化環形微帶天線提出新的饋入技術，並應用於各種不同厚度的基底。
此技術乃利用一耦合微帶線置放於方形環內來激發具有載角環形天線之二正交模態，而產
生圓極化輻射且利用此開路耦合微帶線本身的電容及饋入探針的電感形成匹配電路，使環
形天線高阻抗問題得以解決。首先，特對環形天線不同基底厚度內徑利用模擬軟體來取得
設計參數。之後，便製作天線厚度及量測其特性，並與模擬結果作一比較。除此之外，此
計畫也將經由實驗研究不同的厚度與介電係數之覆蓋層對圓極化微帶天線的影響性。並將
提出修正設計方式以便環形微帶天線在加入覆蓋層後能恢復或提升原有的特性。 
 
關鍵字: 圓極化，環形微帶天線，基底，覆蓋層 
 
 
 
Abstract 
 
A technology that applied coupling-strip-fed mechanism on a corner-truncated circularly 
polarized (CP) square-ring microstrip antenna with thick substrate and dielectric cover for broad 
band operation is proposed. By locating a strip inside the square-ring, this technology introduced 
additional capacitances to solve problems such as series probe inductance and high edge 
impedance. The key parameters of this technology are first determined from the simulation 
results. Several prototypes of the square-ring microstrip antennas will be constructed with 
substrate thickness vary from 0.01 ~ 0.09 λ0  to determine the CP performances. In addition, 
dielectric cover with different thicknesses and dielectric constant attached to this microstrip 
antenna will be investigated. Its characteristic effects on CP performances such as resonant 
frequency, bandwidth and gain will be experimentally measured. The methods to recover from 
these effects cause by the dielectric cover will be investigated and how impedance matching can 
be achieved by implementing the coupling-strip-fed technology will be discussed. 
 
Keywords: Circular polarization, square-ring microstrip antenna, substrate, superstrate 
 
I
 
 
slot size, substrate thickness, and the corresponding design of the coupling strip have not been 
studied clearly. Other possible technologies recommended are the use of a coaxial probe that fed 
directly into the antenna, and the inducement of additional capacitance impedance directly from 
the antenna itself [11-14]. However, the route to determine the required capacitive impedance for 
the CP ring microstrip antenna fabricated on various substrate thicknesses has not been found in 
the open articles.  
The characteristic effects of dielectric cover on patch antenna include resonant frequency, 
resistant and radiating efficiency reduction for an Annular-Ring microstrip antenna is discussed 
in [15]. As for this project, these effects can be rectified by fine tuning the key parameters of the 
coupling-strip-fed technology introduced. 
 
研究方法(Research Methods) 
 In this paper, IE3D software based on the Method of Moment was first used to study the 
designs of the key parameters of coupling-strip-fed for CP square-ring microstrip antenna 
fabricated on thick substrate. Follow up by constructing and testing several antenna prototypes 
with various side length at a fixed substrate thickness, details of the measured antenna 
performances such as CP bandwidth, operating centre frequency and peak gain will be presented 
and discussed. In addition to the above investigation, dielectric cover (superstrate) with various 
thickness and dielectric constant mounted on the CP square-ring microstrip antenna are simulated 
and measured. 
 
Antenna struture 
The basic characteristics of a conventional square-ring microstrip patch antenna, with 
truncated corners of equal side length Δl in order to achieve CP operation are studied. It is 
normally etched on a FR4 substrate and excited by implementing direct probe feed technology 
that accompany with much higher substrate thickness or larger slot size of the square-ring 
microstrip antenna, which will result in difficulty of locating a 50 Ω feed point on the patch. 
However, these problems can be resolved by implementing capacitively gap-coupled feed as 
shown in Fig. 1.  
 
Figure 1. Geometry of the square-ring microstrip antenna excited by coupling-strip-fed  
technology. 
2
 
 
結果與討論 (Results and Discussion) 
According to the design procedure described above, several antenna prototypes with L = 28, 
24, and 20 mm of the square-ring antennas with foam thicknesses fixed at 14 mm were fabricated 
and measured. The design dimensions and the CP performances that are summarised in Table 1 
shows that when the foam thickness is fixed at 14 mm (~ 0.09 0λ ), impedance matching can be 
achieved only by adjusting parameter l. Furthermore, it is found that parameters l and s have to be 
decreased simultaneously when L is decreased from 28 mm to 20 mm; however, s would be too 
small to be fabricated if L is further decreased. 
 
Table 1: Details of the antenna parameters and obtained experimental results for the CP  
square-ring antenna shown in Fig. 1; A = 36 mm, w = 4 mm 
 
The measured return loss and axial ratio against frequency are respectively presented in Fig. 
3a and Fig. 3b. For Antenna C3, the CP bandwidth centred at 2250 MHz is 140 MHz or 6.2%. Its 
radiation patterns plotted in Fig. 4 shows that the peak gain is about 7.3 dBi.  
 
Figure 3. Measurements of Antennas C1, C2, and C3 in Table 1: (a) return loss; (b) axial ratio 
 
 
Figure 4. Measured radiation pattern of Antenna C3 at 2.25 GHz: (a) x–z plane; (b) y–z plane 
 h 
(mm)
Δl 
(mm) 
L
(mm)
l 
(mm)
s 
(mm)
fc 
(MHz)
BW1 
(MHz)
BW2 
(MHz, %) 
Gain 
(dBi) 
Antenna C1 14 8 28 10 4 1990 433 54, 2.71 6.92 
Antenna C2 14 11 24 6.5 2 2110 625 95, 4.5 7.16 
Antenna C3 14 12.5 20 4 1 2250 634 140, 6.22 7.35 
4
 
 
 
Figure 5. Measured return loss of Antenna C1:  
(a) different thickness of dielectric cover with a fixed dielectric constant 4.4=rε ;  
(b) different dielectric cover material with a fixed dielectric cover thickness hc = 5.4 mm 
 
Rectifying the CP Performances 
 To rectify the deteriorated CP performances of the square-ring microstrip antenna when a 
dielectric cover is mounted, two consecutive approaches are recommended. The first approach is 
to alter the dimensions of the square-ring microstrip antenna such as ∆l, inner and outer slot 
length, which will result in the recovery of the degenerated resonant frequency, bandwidth and 
axial ratio caused by the dielectric cover. Follow by the second approach that requires the 
implementation of the design procedure for impedance matching using coupling-strip-fed 
technology as mentioned earlier. By adjusting the gap distance and strip length, impedance 
matching for the altered square-ring microstrip antenna can be realized. 
 
結論與建議 (Conclusion and Recommendation) 
The design of a technology for exciting a CP square-ring microstrip antenna is presented and 
studied. It can be applied to a square-ring microstrip antenna with thick substrate and narrow strip 
width. This coupling-strip-fed technology enables a coupling strip to incorporate with the 
square-ring patch, induces a capacitance that cancel off some of the probe inductance. The key 
parameters of this technology are initially studied and the design procedures for impedance 
matching are established. Several prototypes of the antennas with various substrate thicknesses 
have been successfully constructed and their CP performances such as bandwidth, operating 
centre frequency and peak gain are also measured and discussed. The results revealed that the 
coupling-strip-fed technologies can be applied to reduce the patch size for the square-ring 
microstrip antenna operated at a given frequency. Based on the information obtained, dielectric 
cover of different thickness and material were mounted on the square-ring microstrip antenna for 
evaluation. The results show that the antenna performances such as centre frequency; bandwidth 
and radiating efficiency are reduced as expected. Nevertheless, it is recommended by adjusting 
the dimension of the key parameters of the coupling-strip-fed technology on CP square-ring 
microstrip antenna, the deteriorated CP performances can be rectified.  
 
 
 
6
 
 
計劃成果自評 (Project Achievement and Self-Criticism) 
 This project which lasted for a year has since completed:  
(1) The analysis of a square-ring microstrip antenna embedded with a strip  
(2) The effects of various key parameters on its CP performances. 
(3) Methods to achieve impedance for this type of antenna. 
(4) The effects of superstrate (dielectric cover) loading onto the square-ring microstrip 
antenna with different thickness and dielectric constant. 
(5) Methods to rectify this superstrate loading effects. 
 
 
附件(一): 出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
(1) Acquaintance with a number of professors and scholars within the Taiwan academic 
field  
(2) Able to practice my speech during the conference. 
(3) Aware of the latest research trend in Taiwan and the current research interest in some 
of the university.   
 
發表之論文: 
Chow-Yen-Desmond Sim, Tuan-Yung Han and Jia-Fong Wu, “Impedance Matching and 
Superstrate Effects on CP Square Ring Microstrip Antenna”, International Symposium on 
Communications Organized by National Sun-Yat-Sen University, ISCOM 2005,20-22 Nov 2005, 
ISBN: 986-00-3015-4.  
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
10
