1 Introduction 
To overcome the problem of a lack of sensitivity, three-dimensional PET image 
reconstruction methods [1,2] have been effectively employed to improve image quality. However, 
the reconstruction time becomes a concern because of the drastic increase in the size of the 
projection data. Rebinning methods are utilized in this regard to cut down on the processing time 
in some of the analytical versions of the reconstruction methods, but the goal of a true 
three-dimensional image reconstruction method is to reconstruct the image from both direct and 
oblique projection data which can be measured by machines. Because of the physical limit of the 
axial length of machines, part of the oblique projection data are unmeasured in the 
three-dimensional data collection process. The 3DRP method produces the first image estimate 
from initial parallel projection and estimates the unmeasured projection data by forward 
projection using the first image estimate. 
Attributed to the limitation of instrumentation and acceptance angle, some of the projection 
information is missing as illustrated by Figure 1. Shift-invariance property of 
Fourier-Convolution theory no longer holds. This truncated cylinder machine physics caused by 
the missing data prevents the three-dimensional filtered back-projection method from being used 
by image reconstruction. On the contrary, the traditional two-dimensional filtered back-projection 
and the three-dimensional Fourier Rebinning method are not affected. Therefore, the missing 
projection data needs to be compensated in order to apply the three-dimensional filtered 
back-projection to perform the fast image reconstruction. 
or any machine specific settings. Because of the high cost of both PET equipment operation and 
the radioactive materials used, a few software programs have been created for simulation. STIR
（Software for Tomographic Imaging Reconstruction）is specifically developed for PET image 
reconstruction research. It contains a complete code for the major functionalities of the image 
reconstruction techniques in detail, and is still under development. STIR is written in C++ 
language and is designed as an object-oriented library. The object-oriented features make this 
library very modular and flexible. This means that it is relatively easy to add new algorithms, 
filters, projectors or even a different type of image discretisation. The STIR software is also 
freely available for downloading. The STIR library is also portable on all systems supporting the 
GNU C++ compiler or MS Visual C++, and we use it under Linux environment to conduct our 
experiment. We adopt the STIR program as the basis for conducting the simulation because it has 
developed a complete program set of 3DRP reconstruction methods with the Colsher filter [3]. 
Extensions are made to customize the original code for our experiment needs. 
Table 1. STIR file format 
 Projection data Image data 
Header file *.hs *.hv 
Data file *.s *.v 
The STIR program has two input/output file formats, as illustrated by Table 1. The file 
format is extended from the Interfile [4] whose standard is well known for medical images. The 
header file is written in regular ASCII text, and mainly records some information from data such 
as source machine, image size, image pixel size, etc. The accompanying Data file is binary, which 
records image data. 
Volume- and View-mode classifications used by the CTI machine are also adopted for 
not fit well in practice for further study. In our implementation, we perform the reconstruction 
method by inputting the more realistic image data. Shepp-Logan phantom is a test image 
commonly used by researchers in radiographic tomography and the Modified Shepp-Logan 
phantom, like the one shown in Figure 3, is a variant of the Shepp-Logan phantom in which the 
contrast is improved for better visual perception. 
 
Fig 3. MATLAB Shepp-Logan phantom 
Our experiment adopts three-dimensional analogue of MATLAB Shepp-Logan phantom, 
which is extended by varieties of 2D Modified Shepp-Logan phantom. Following the execution 
of the downloaded phantom3d.m program, it generates a 3D head phantom that can be used to 
test 3D reconstruction algorithms. The phantom information is represented by an accessible 
three-dimensional image matrix. By executing the MATLAB instruction - figure, 
imshow(squeeze(ph(64,:,:))), it produces a slice of the 3D head phantom. By using the MATLAB 
save instruction, the matrix can be saved as an output image file with .mat extension. 3D image 
slices can be extracted with the same direction at different offset to form a stack of 2D images. To 
comply with the requirements of the STIR running environment, we transform those 2D images 
into files with an Interfile format as the input for the STIR program. 
projection data in the remaining subset of the projection planes; 
(4) The new set of projection data is filtered and back-projected along with the original 
complete projection to form a high-sensitivity, three-dimensional image, using the 
appropriate filter. 
…
 
Fig 4. Forward projection from first image estimate with different projection angles for 
making up missing information 
3 Experimental results 
Under STIR, the fwdtest program forward projects the input image into the projection data which 
are stored in two files, one is the header file with extension .hs and the other is the actual data file 
with extension .s. By controlling the span parameter, different number of sinograms of various 
ring differences can be merged into the segment blocks. The needed composite projection data 
can be expected by conducting the rebinning operation via the execution of STIR utility program 
SSRB. Work around the design of the STIR program, we use segment #0 of projection data as the 
sources of direct projection data. On the other hand, oblique projection data come from 
corresponding segments depending on the machine specific span information. Once the 
assumption that only resolution and contrast are checked to solely evaluating the rebinning effect.  
Figures 9, 10, and 11 line up the reconstructed images of different slice groups for 2DFBP, 3DRP, 
and our 3DRP-SSRB schemes in three vertical columns for comparisons. 
As compared to the original input images shown in Figure 8, there is noticeable contrast 
degradation for nearly all slices of the three reconstruction methods. The low-contrast 
phenomenon occurs for all methods, indicating that it is due to the specific way in the internal 
handling of range scales. However, there is no significant distinction in terms of the contrast 
information among the three methods in this regard. From the numbers listed in Table 2, it can be 
concluded that the reprojection-based 3D method is the better choice when it comes to the mean 
square error analaysis. The image quality therefore is proved to be better than the one generated 
by the original form of 3DRP algorithm. The rationale is that both direct and oblique projections 
are taken into account in generating the initial image estimate. More studies can be conducted on 
various parameter settings such as span information in the 3DRP configuration. 
Table 2. The MSE numbers of 3DRP-Rebin, 3DRP and 2DFBP 
Method Slice 1 Slice 2 Slice 3 Slice 4 Slice 5
3DRP-SSRB 1634 1551 1564 1586 1622
3DRP 1645 1572 1572 1582 1614
2DFBP 1707 1708 1683 1621 1621
 
Method Slice 6 Slice 7 Slice 8 Slice 9 Slice 10
3DRP-SSRB 1638 1622 1604 1612 1634 
3DRP 1635 1620 1603 1610 1626 
2DFBP 1606 1588 1584 1583 1593 
 
Method Slice 11 Slice 12 Slice 13 Slice 14 Slice 15
3DRP-SSRB 1628 1584 1528 1510 1656 
3DRP 1616 1582 1540 1533 1673 
2DFBP 1603 1596 1642 1659 1681 
