2 
 
mechanism of the network. A policy network displays a panorama of the dynamic policy processes. Obviously, 
the concept of policy networks is still used as an analytical tool most of the time. Therefore, this study 
considers policy networks as a tool for describing and analyzing the interdependent and reciprocal 
relationships among network actors. 
 
2.2 From Policy Networks to System Innovative Solving Thinking 
 
In a mechanical or organic system, system elements exist and interrelate as they operate toward a 
common purpose. System elements do not have individual purposes. However, social systems are different. In 
social systems, people function both individually and collectively. System actors have their own purposes, and 
cooperate to pursue the purpose of the system (Ackoff, 1994:179-180). Similarly, a policy network has its 
own specific function or purpose. A policy implementation network carries a policy of cooperation among 
network actors. However, in pursuing network purposes, various network actors can also achieve their own 
goals via resource exchanges with each other. 
The major differences between system innovative thinking and policy networks approaches are as 
follows. First, system innovative thinking stresses describing and simulating policy problems, while the 
concept of policy networks focuses on describing the policy system. When observing a policy problem, 
system thinkers consider the problem as a result of system structure. Based on this assumption, system 
thinkers begin to identify stakeholders and possible causes leading to the problem. In summary, the policy 
problem is the crux in a system of innovative thinking and modeling processes such as Space, Time, 
Condition, and Transition (Junyoung and Yongtae, 2008). On the other hand, the policy networks perspective 
encourages people to look into the resource exchanges among network actors and their strategies for 
interactions. That is, the analysis focuses on how the network operates to achieve its goals. 
 
2.3 TRIZ 
 
40 Inventive principles are used for solving a technical contradiction in the initial stage of the TRIZ. For 
example, inventive principle 1, ‗Segmentation‘ divides the present situation for problem solving. And 
Inventive principle 4 ‗Asymmetry‘ breaks the balance of the present situation for problem solving. The 40 
principles are fundamentally sound; there is some difficulty in applying them in areas like system innovative 
thinking. As they were originally developed for mechanical or technical problems, the meanings of the words 
in many cases do not go well with a Policy network environment. There may be controversies on the 
application of other TRIZ tools, but all TRIZ schools and professionals still can use application of the 
Inventive Principles. The beauty of Inventive Principles is that they can be independently applied. 
Although, they are easy to learn and easy to apply, can they solve difficult problems? Simple 
enumeration of Principles, by using this method one can work toward to applying all principles consulting. If 
a principle seems to be useful in the context, then select the principle and proceed further. The advantage of 
this method is the ability to test the applicability of all the principles. Based on this concept, our work is based 
on the existing documents on 40 principles, we took the English sources of 40 principles as the base, the 
objective of this paper froms a accepted reference document for ―Policy network principles‖, The main 
sources referred are the following. 
 
1. 40 inventive principles in quality management (Retseptor, 2003) 
2. 40 Inventive Principles with Applications in Service Operations Management (Zhang, et al, 2003) 
3. The Revised 40 Principles for software Inventions (Mishra, U and Bangalore, 2006) 
4. Inventive (business) principles with examples (Mann and Domb, 1999) 
5. Application of 40 Principles for Public Sector Innovation. Jiang, J. C., Sun P., (2009). 
 
The terms like ―aerodynamic‖, ―hydrodynamic‖, ―piezoelectric‖, ―ultrasonic‖, ―infrared‖, ―ultraviolet‖, 
―temperature‖, ―liquid‖, ―gas‖ etc, and the terms like ―object or system‖ are either removed or altered to use 
parallel terms used. In a way, e.g., principles like principle-28: Mechanics Substitution, Principle-31: Porous 
materials etc., the applications (descriptions) vary widely in different reference documents. Well, they are 
revised to suite Policy Networks; the applications (descriptions) are tailored to be meaningful in system 
innovative thinking without changing the original concept for Policy Networks behind the principle. 
 
3. PROBLEMS SOLUTION WITH TRIZ METHODOLOGY 
 
In order to assist the policy networks approach, this study attempts to apply both approaches to analyze 
solution accountability in the system of 40 principles. However, concerns in such partnerships between 
government and the policy networks for providing TRIZ methodology social services solutions have raised 
public concerns regarding accountability. That is, clarifying accountability for the failure of the policy 
network is a major concern. Accountability is traditionally defined as the controllability or answerability of 
public service organizations to controlling bodies. Then, the issue of accountability involves three questions; 
―who is accountable?‖; ―to whom?‖ and ―for what?‖ The policy network of TRIZ methodology comprises 
4 
 
wasting money on trying personnel which is not up to the task.  
 
3.1.2 The Nine Windows Contradiction  
 
Once we have established a way of segmenting our world-view, from subsystem to super system, from 
past to future, many Strategies are designed to help us to shift from one window to another in order to find the 
‗right‘ problem to be solved. 
Figure 2 illustrates how some of the Inventive Strategies similarly direct the problem-solving attention of 
the user to different viewing perspectives (Mann, 2005). The whole Systematic Innovation method has been 
designed with the idea of ‗self-correction‘ in mind. At its most sophisticated level of operation, the method 
contains a complete problem definition scheme. The basic idea behind this structure is that a user can work 
through a series of questions, starting from what might be an extremely uncertain starting point, and gradually 
be guided towards a moment where an insight into the real problem becomes apparent. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: ‘Nine-Windows’ and ‘Self-Correcting’ Problem Finding Indicators (Mann, 2005). 
 
3.2. Parameters occur according to various types of Policy Network through System Innovative 
Thinking 
 
Richardson and Jordan emphasized that public policy is developed in the policy community. In this 
policy community, limited actors interact frequently and share the same values. Policymaking results from 
negotiations between government agencies and pressure groups in the community. (Parameters: From 
Subsystem to Super System) Although there is a marked increase in the number of interest groups in the 
society as pluralists stated, Richardson and Jordon argued that different public policies were produced in 
different policy networks. Each policy network comprised specific government agencies and related interest 
groups. Based on transaction theory, Rhodes (1981, 1988) described the network relations between 
government agencies and social groups as a resource exchange relationship. Unlike Richardson and Jordan, 
Rhodes focused on the structural relations among different levels of political organizations within the policy 
networks. The analysis focused on sectors rather than sub-sectors. (Parameters: Space, Time, Condition and 
Transition)  
To summarize, the concept of policy networks is interpreted as a generic term for different forms of 
relationships among government offices and various interest groups. This concept could also refer to 
intergovernmental relationships related to specific policies. 
Besides describing the policy structure, various types of policy networks were distinguished based on 
different dimensions. Analyzing intergovernmental relations, Rhodes (1981`) conceived of five types of policy 
networks, ranging along a continuum from tightly integrated policy communities through professional 
networks, intergovernmental networks, and producer networks to loosely integrated issue networks. These 
networks are distinguished by their members and the distribution of resources among them. (Parameters: 
Space, Time, Condition and Transition) 
Wilks and Wright (1987: 299-300) analyzed the interpersonal interactions in the network using a 
societal-centered approach. After observing the relationship between government agencies and industry, Wilks 
and Wright emphasized that the sub-sectoral level is the crux in the public policy making processes. Therefore, 
policy networks were divided into four policy levels by Wilks and Wright (1987). These levels include the 
policy area, policy sector, policy sub-sector (policy focus) and policy issue. (Parameters: From Subsystem to 
Super System) Marsh and Rhodes (1992: 251) identified four dimensions for distinguishing policy networks. 
These dimensions include membership (number of participants, type of interest), integration (frequency of 
interaction, continuity, consensus), resources (distribution of resources within network, distribution of 
resources within participating organizations), and power. The typology of Marsh and Rhodes treated policy 
networks as types of relationships between government and interest groups. Networks can vary along a 
continuum from highly integrated policy communities at one end and loosely integrated issue networks at the 
other end. Franz Van Waarden (1992) divided policy networks into 11 types based on seven criteria – actors, 
 
6 
 
 
2. Many agencies came forward to assist with aid packages, but in the traditional fashion of investing in 
recovery operations and infrastructure development. There were problems in the response due to this lack of 
preparation, although improvised solutions were quickly implemented with some success due to the high 
capacity of the central government and the prompt arrival of foreign aid. 
(Parameters: From Past to Future and From Subsystem to Super System) 
 
3. Changes in the intensity and seasonal nature of agriculture, which includes removal of agricultural land 
from production and hence changes the vulnerability to flood damage. 
(Parameters: Space, Time, Condition and Transition) 
 
4. The Taiwan central government did not set up a task force to co-ordinate relief and rehabilitation until 
nearly one week after the disaster. A communication gap was also seen between the Taiwan state government 
and the local government. The local government executives are theoretically in charge during emergencies, 
but many know little about emergency management.  
(Parameters: From Subsystem to Super System) 
 
5. The Implementing Committee is under the coordination of the head of whatever ministry is in charge of 
that particular category of events. One problem is that many of these members of the CHMC Implementing 
Committee are themselves Ministers, or rank nearly as high, and are unwilling to ‗take orders‘ from an equal. 
(Parameters: From Past to Future and From Subsystem to Super System) 
 
6. There is a lack of adequate human and material resources to tackle the massive floods. Relief supplies 
remained undelivered for days due mainly to bureaucratic bottlenecks. There were rules about where 
construction was allowed, but enforcement was not uniform. Townships varied widely in their levels of 
capacity, and local officials did not always understand the risks their jurisdictions faced. 
(Parameters: From Past to Future and From Subsystem to Super System) 
(Parameters: Space, Time, Condition and Transition) 
 
At the same time, about Parameters: Space, Time, Condition and Transition, the exercise we did was to apply 
each of the separation principles to each problem.  
 
1. Somebody's job vs. everyone's job: 
Time: Rotate responsibilities so that everyone has a chance to be involved  
Condition: Target specific businesses, more responsive units 
2. Inside vs. outside business looks: 
Space: Meet out side or at a new technology meeting and consider impacts or use of new technology 
Condition: Simulate different business conditions 
Parts/whole: Internal ventures and subsidiaries not a part of normal structure 
3. Chaos vs. discipline 
Time: Set aside separate time for new thoughts  
Condition: Special sessions or activities triggered by an outside event  
Parts/whole: Allow certain groups to be more chaotic  
4. Passion vs. objectivity 
Time: Become more objective and detailed as the new idea reaches Target 
Space: Objectivity from the outside, passion from the inside through the use of external evaluation 
Condition: Cycle back and forth as project milestones are met and additional investment is required 
Parts/whole: Separate types of reviews on different parts of a project; use perspectives of different divisions 
or functions within an organization (without influence from others) 
5. Risk vs. job security 
Time: Clearly identify stage gates and commitments 
Space: Isolated time and place for frank input and comments without fear 
Condition: Reward structure for team based on benchmarks 
Parts/whole: Competitive partnering 
 
4.3 Proposed Problems Solution Principles 
Based on the Problems referring to related matrix mentioned above, the Proposed Problems Solution 
Principles were conducted as below:   
 
#1. Segmentation  
Public service packages can be divided into several components: supporting facility, facilitating policies, 
explicit services and implicit services. 
 
#2. Extraction, Taking out 
8 
 
before. In the future, the reconstructed areas would not just be composed of houses, but also take cultural, 
spiritual, and religious lifestyles would be taken into consideration. 
 
#26. Copying 
Aside from representatives from the previously stated organizations, scholars and experts from different 
fields will be invited to participate in the committee‘s reconstruction planning, which will also include the 
direct participation of disaster victims so that reconstruction work will better meet their needs. 
 
#31. Use of Porous Material  
Information technologies create the opportunity for service providers to interact more frequently with 
Modern Society. Religious groups also participated in the relief with spirital help. The formal and informal 
education of volunteers in dealing with disaster response matters should be a major preparedness effort to 
enhance the resilience of the communities. 
 
#36. Phase Transformations  
Some cultural barriers remain more common in the public organizations than in the private sector. A shift 
in the conceptualization of hazard is needed: from a ‗purely‘ physical and isolated event towards a broader 
process that is affected by both physical and social events and the resulting processes (Immink, 2005). 
 
#38. Use strong Oxidizers (Boosted interactions) 
Giving organizations additional funding for having successfully adopted or adapted an innovation can 
increase motivation by providing extra facilities and opportunities for civil servants and users. To further 
enhance the role of people as co-producers in the operations system; there is a trend from single-purpose 
measures such as water supply, flood control towards multiple-purpose measures. Multiple-purpose measures 
are affected by the multiple means of the various actors. 
 
5. SUMMARY 
TRIZ System innovative thinking and policy networks have long been individually applied to public 
policy. Unlike the traditional perspective, TRIZ System innovative thinking emphasizes the interdependent 
relations and innovative solutions among network /system actors. Resources and power are merged within the 
network so that each network actor has a leveraged impact on network performance.  
Because of the different characteristics of the system innovative thinking and public network 
perspectives, both contribute to the processes of constructing network accountability in different ways. 
However, the policy networks perspective can not help network actors realize their influence on overall 
system performance. The TRIZ System innovative thinking can be very helpful in this regard. System 
innovative thinking methodology focuses on problematic system behavior, and provides and an effective 
approach for network actors to learn more about their function within the system and their influence on the 
system. This study believes that a system of accountability can be constructed by altering self-recognition of 
network actors, thus improving system performance. Finally, for more substantial successful policy network 
management and further research, after the case study we discuss, the authors provided feasible terms of the 
40 principles for bridging the gaps between the supplied service needs and policy network. 
 
Principle 1. Segmentation 
A. Divide an object into independent parts. 
B. Make an object easy to disassemble. 
C. Divide object into parts so that some part can be easily taken away. 
D. Increase the degree of fragmentation or segmentation.  
  
Principle 2. Taking out 
A. Separate an interfering part from an object, or single out the only necessary part of an object. 
  
Principle 3. Local quality 
A. Where an object or system is uniform, make it non-uniform. 
B. Change the environment around the system.  
C. Enable each part of a system to function in locally optimized conditions. 
D. Enable each part of a system or object to carry out different useful functions. 
  
Principle 4. Asymmetry 
A. Change the object or system from symmetrical to asymmetrical. 
B. If an object or system is asymmetrical, change its degree of asymmetry. 
  
Principle 5. Merging 
A. Bring closer together (or merge) identical or similar object, assemble identical or similar parts to perform 
parallel operations. 
10 
 
A. Instead of continuous action use pulse actions. 
B. Vary periodicity according the conditions. 
C. Use pauses between impulses to perform some other action. 
  
Principle 20. Continuity of Useful Action 
A. All parts of the object must work continuously. 
B. Eliminate all idle running. 
 
Principle 21. Skipping 
A. Conduct an action at very high speed to eliminate harmful side-effects. 
 
Principle 22. "Blessing in Disguise" 
A. Use harmful factors to achieve positive effects. 
B. Eliminate a harmful factor by adding it with another harmful factor. 
C. Amplify a harmful factor to such a degree that it is no longer harmful. 
 
Principle 23. Feedback 
A. Introduce feedback. 
B. If feedback is already used, change its magnitude or influence. 
  
Principle 24. 'Intermediary' 
A. Use an intermediary carrier article or intermediary process. 
B. Merge one object temporarily with another (which can be easily removed). 
 
Principle 25. Self-service 
A. Enable an object or system to perform functions or organize itself. 
B. Make use of waste resources, energy, or substances. 
  
Principle 26. Copying 
A. Instead of an unavailable, expensive, fragile object, use simpler and inexpensive copies. 
B. Replace an object, or process with optical copies. 
C If optical copies are used, Use an appropriate out of the ordinary illumination and viewing situation. 
  
Principle 27. Cheap Short-Living Objects 
A. Replace an expensive object with many cheap objects which deliver the same function. 
  
Principle 28 Mechanics Substitution 
A. Replace an existing means with a means making use of another sense (optical, acoustic, taste, touch or 
smell). 
  
Principle 29. Pneumatics and Hydraulics 
A. Use intangible parts of an object or system instead of tangible parts. 
  
Principle 30. Flexible Shells and Thin Films 
A. Incorporate flexible service shells and thin films instead of solid structures. 
B. Isolate an object or system from a potentially harmful environment using flexible shells and thin films. 
  
Principle 31. Porous Materials 
A. Make an object porous or add porous elements (inserts, coatings, etc.). 
B. If an object is already porous, use the pores to introduce a useful substance or function. 
  
Principle 32. Color Changes 
A. Change the color of an object or its external environment. 
B. Change the transparency of an object or its external environment. 
  
Principle 33. Homogeneity 
A. Make objects interact with a given object of the same characteristics. (or match with identical 
characteristics). 
  
Principle 34. Discarding and Recovering 
A. Make elements of an object or system that have fulfilled their functions disappear.  
B. Restore consumable or degradable parts of an object or system during operation. 
  
Principle 35. Parameter Changes 
12 
 
Press. 
 
Mishra, U and Bangalore, (2006), India, The revised 40 Principles for Software Inventions, 
http://www.trizsite.com 
 
Retseptor, G. (2003), 40 inventive principles in quality management, The TRIZ Journal. 
 
Rhodes, R. A. W. (1981), Control and Power in Central-Local Government Relationships. Farnborough: 
Gower. 1988 Beyond Westminster and Whitehall. London: Unwin-Hyman. 1997 Understanding Governance: 
Policy Networks, Governance, Reflexivity and Accountability. Buckingham, UK: Open University Press. 
 
Rhodes, R. A. W. and D. Marsh, (1992), ―Policy Networks in British Politics: A Critique of Existing 
Approaches,‖ in D. Marsh and R.A.W. Rhodes (eds.), Policy Networks in British Government, pp.1-26. 
Oxford: Clarendon Press. 
 
Wilks, S. and M. Wright, (1987), ―Conclusion: Comparing Government-Industry Relations: States, 
Sectors, and Networks,‖ in S. Wilks and M. Wright (eds.), Comparative governmentindustry relations: 
Western Europe, the United States, and Japan, pp. 274- 
313. Oxford: Clarendon Press. 
 
Zlotin, B., Zusman, A., Kaplan, L., Visnepolschi, S., Proseanic, V., and Malkin, S., (2005), TRIZ 
Beyond Technology: The theory and practice of applying TRIZ to non-technical areas, Ideation International 
Inc. 
 
Zhang, J., Chai, K. H., and Tan, K. C. (2003), 40 Inventive Principles with Applications in Service 
Operations Management, The TRIZ Journal. 
 
Zhang, J., Chai, K. H., and Tan, K. C. (2003), 40 Inventive Principles with Applications in Service 
Operations Management, The TRIZ Journal. 
 
2Day Three - Thursday, 28 July 2011
Keynote Speech:
"Biomimetics of Media and Communication: What the Cell Can Teach Us about Service?"
Dr. V.A. Shiva Ayyadurai, Ph.D. Biological Engineering Department
Massachusetts Institute of Technology U.S.A.
Executive Director
International Center for Integrative Systems
Cambridge, MA 02138
Day Four - Friday, 29 July 2011 Venue: 2nd Floor Inna Garuda Hotel
Plenary Session:“How to Publish” Workshop
Jay Kandampully
Professor of Service Management
The Ohio State University, USA
Editor: Journal of Service Management
Chair of IRSSM and SERI-Initiative
二、與會心得
這次的會議經驗讓我印象深刻，在開幕演講之後就是原地欣賞日惹當地的民族風情。此次日惹
舉行的大會的 Keynote Speech:"Biomimetics of Media and Communication是由 Dr. V.A. Shiva
Ayyadurai前來演講。他在演講中提及了他的學思歷程 ，讓身為後進的我們可以一窺一代學者的行
跡。其中提及在學習中重要的是主動建構服務業歷程。此次會議除了嚴肅的演講以及海報講解外，
主辦單位還舉辦了“How to Publish” Workshop。
參與國際會議不外乎瞭解目前最新的研究發展情況以及語言上的表達訓練。比較特別的是在會
議的 break 中，認識了一些學者。
1) Associate Professor
Head, Newcastle Business School
Faculty of Business and Law
University Drive, Australia
2) Associate Professor of Logistic & SCM
Deputy Head of School (Callaghan/City)
Newcastle Business School
University of Newcastle, Australia
3) Professor
Oslo School of Management
Norway
Editor: European Business Review
4) Professor of Service Management
The Ohio State University, USA
Editor: Journal of Service Management
4六、論文被接受發表之大會證明文件
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: TRIZ理論之公部門創意服務設計應用研究－八八水災災後重建為例(I)
計畫主持人: 江瑞清
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-033-047- 學門領域: 服務系統與科技管理
無研發成果推廣資料
40 Innovation 
Principles: A 
Case Study of 
Taiwan Flood 
Policy, Papers 
Presented at 
APIEMS 
2010Conference.
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
