一、前言 
在邁向數位化的今日，從整個資訊產品的研究趨勢可以得知，目前資訊業界已經摩拳擦
掌，企圖將各式運算能力以遍佈運算的姿態進入我們的居家日常生活之中。身為關心使用者
的設計師或研究員，面對遍佈運算進入家庭所進行的研究與發展的榮盛，應正視這些探討家
庭生活脈絡的議題。 
而在這些使用脈絡的探討議題中，值得設計師關注的是以活動為分析基礎，使用者對使
用脈絡中產品功能的調整與組織的互動行為，以及如何觀察使用者在活動中調整與組織產品
功能。但是要設計師直接進入使用者的生活脈絡中進行研究，並從中濾出產品使用行為模式
與生活脈絡的關係有其難度。其理由在於沒有一個適合設計師觀察生活脈絡與產品使用行為
的關係模式，很難直接將產品使用行為模式與生活脈絡產生關聯。因此我們需要一個分析居
家環境中使用脈絡的模式。更準確地說，我們需要一個分析居家環境中某些活動下使用者如
何調整與改變產品功能結構的分析框架與模式，來幫助研究員瞭解居家環境中使用者使用產
品的行為模式與生活脈絡的關係。 
二、研究目的 
本研究的最終目的即在瞭解居家生活脈絡並建立生活脈絡與產品使用行為的關係描述模
式，第一階段研究在於探討產品使用行為及其所牽涉之各種層面，以作為未來企圖以家庭為
研究場域與設計場域的遍佈運算研發團隊與設計研究團隊，能有一個分析居家生活脈絡的基
礎。使觀察與的分析結果能夠幫助產品設計師，特別是居家環境中遍佈運算的系統設計師們，
規劃產品的功能。分析居家生活脈絡、產品使用脈絡以及產品使用行為，特別是以使用者從
事的活動為基礎，分析在特定活動下使用者對功能的需求，有助於設計師思考未來遍佈運算
進入家庭後所帶來的人機互動問題、安排更適切的互動設計，並更進一步地為使用者設身處
地設想使用情境。除此之外，透過深刻的瞭解使用者使用脈絡也能幫助設計師與系統開發者
盡可能地以生活脈絡為導向，將科技適切地導入使用者的日常生活之中，而不是隨意讓科技
力宰制使用者的日常生活，或強迫使用者去適應生硬的科技。 
本研究將研究方向設定於透過實地的田野調查，檢討出生活脈絡以及產品使用行，以提
供未來欲開發家庭生活環境中遍佈運算裝置的設計師與研究員一個檢視產品使用行為與生活
脈絡間關係的分析工具。在此概念中，本研究將以「產品使用脈絡」此一觀念作為中介，上
承生活脈絡，下接使用行為模式，以作為模式建立的依據。在此階段，本研究首先將廣泛探
究目前台灣家庭於居家環境中對於家中某些特定產品的使用脈絡。本研究將以溝通媒體為
例，檢視家庭中年長者，其人際互動之生活脈絡，以及運用溝通產品所進行的各項活動與行
模式，歸納使用脈絡與生活脈絡內部的形成各個因素，以輔助未來建立分析家庭產品使用模
式與家庭生活脈絡關聯模式。唯有探究生活脈絡與產品使用脈絡兩者之情形，才能瞭解產品
使用脈絡所要達成的社會目的；也唯有連結使用者生活脈絡與使用者行為模式，才能說明產
品使用脈絡的存在特性。因此，本研究將以特定居家活動為例，以此活動內部所包含的生活
脈絡、產品使用脈絡以及行為模式，了解產品使用所牽涉到的各個層面之要素，藉以幫助設
計師在設計產品時能夠考量使用者生活脈絡以及使用行為模式。 
三、文獻探討 
科技進入居家生活脈絡的相關研究 
家庭或居家環境作為一種特定的研究對象，即已將之視為一種特定的生活脈絡來探討。
關心居家生活脈絡與科技產品的學者，從家庭內部的生活脈絡分析，到家庭生活脈絡延伸到
他社會組織所形成的社會文化脈絡，某些部分亦因為科技的導入而產生新的社會結構。 
人們如何運用產品將表現在他們的使用行為模式之上。而運用產品進行活動或者達成某
種目的則建構出產品使用脈絡。產品所具有的科技力以產品本身的功能與特徵表現出來，而
這些功能與特徵則藉由人們的使用行為模式，使人們進出不同的生活空間。而身處在科技空
間以及物質空間的產品，其本身所具有的屬性與功能則決定了這些產品能夠與不同空間連結
的潛力。這些潛力有些是設計師預先決定的，有些卻是人們在生活脈絡之中透過實踐而發現
或創生的。 
脈絡訪查法在設計的運用 
脈絡訪查法(contextual inquiry) 提供一個使用者導向的途徑，研究者從田野蒐集使用者資
料，並運用這些資料協助定義產品的特性及開發的程序方法以確實滿足開發團隊及組織的需
求[1]。此法的關鍵在於運用訪談的方法，於使用者真實的使用情境下提問一系列預先設計的
問題，並透過提問與觀察使用者與系統的互動，取得貼近真實的資料。對於訪談者而言，脈
絡訪查就如同一個向受訪者學習的過程，試圖探索受訪者與研究物或主題的關係。脈絡訪 
查法是一個目前經常運用在設計領域上，對使用者進行初期探索的田野調查技巧。脈絡
訪查法本身即考慮了五種層面的議題：社會文化面、空間物質面、人員物流面、人造物層面、
行動程序面[1]。雖然脈絡分析當初開發出來目的是作為研究工作空間的脈絡，並沒有針對其
他場域。但是，不辯自明地這五個層面在不同生活脈絡中都確實存在，因此，運用脈絡分析
的方法可以協助理解本研究所關注的居家生活脈絡。 
脈絡設計是以使用者為中心的研究設計方法當中，較有系統並且施行起來快速有效的。
不僅能了解使用者如何進行工作、使用者關注的面向，同時協調跨功能團隊，讓設計師專注
於研究所發現的資料。並且考慮再設計之義涵、架構出一套共通性的、可支援再設計的系統。
目前已有不少設計研究，包含產品使用意義與開發[8]、在地文化與生活 [7]、環境與產品再
設計[4][12]藉由脈絡設計的研究方法獲得良好的效果與應用。其它運用脈絡訪查進行脈絡分
析的案例包括：Cross 及 Warmack 以脈絡訪查法針對在 PDA 應用平台上預錄影片的發表形
式進行分析，發現發表脈絡的基本架構與典型問題，並透過對設計問題及建議進行優先排序，
整理出此種發表形式的潛在商業效益及未來產品設計發展的決策方向與價值[3]。Liu 等人針
對速食餐廳的回收區進行脈絡訪查，發現速食餐廳回收區中的使用問題，並據此提出改善回
收區設計的具體建議[10]。Ko 透過脈絡訪查法訪談資深程式設計師，探討「事件為基礎之程
式編寫」(event-based programming)的策略在軟體開發環境的適用性。經由訪談及觀察，有效
發現了程式撰寫、測試及除錯時的問題點，並獲得洞見，提出較佳的程式編寫工具之建議[9]。
Jang 等人則針對 KTV 的活動進行脈絡訪查，探討 KTV 包廂中點歌系統與整個人際互動關
係間的互動，並據此提出設計建議[7]。 
此研究方法強調真實場域中對口語及影像資料的擷取，而不採取大量樣本調查的途徑，
目的是為了獲得在真實脈絡下的敘述內容及與人機環互動的真實呈現，這點補強了傳統問卷
所無法擷取的活動意圖，並使活動脈絡與遭遇的問題能具體浮現及清楚掌握。 
四、研究方法 
本研究藉由讓受訪者參與研究之途徑，深入居家環境探索居家生活的使用脈絡。主要透
過脈絡訪查，以客廳為主要探索場域，深入了解在客廳中發生的各種類型活動中，生活脈絡
與產品使用行為組成的因素為何，並從脈絡訪查中以及文獻的探討整理出描述人們使用產品
行為模式的主要項目。 
使得年長者不容易使用。而個人行動電話功能較複雜，對年長者而言也不易理解和操作，如
受訪者便表示收到訊息不知道要如何觀看等，或是必須請家人協助撥打電話。 
  
圖一、年長者居家生活之溝通脈絡 
年長者溝通媒體之使用 
年長者對外聯絡時，主要的流程是尋找對方的聯絡資訊、選擇適合的聯繫媒體和方式。
年長者習慣查詢的聯絡資訊主要仍是家中的通訊錄、名片冊、電話冊或鄰里聯絡冊，還有隨
手記下聯絡資訊的便條紙、桌曆、行事曆，而行動電話內的通訊錄不是主要的聯絡資訊查詢
方式，圖二為年長者溝通行為所使用之相關聯絡資訊物件 consolidated artifact model。 
   
圖二、年長者溝通行為所使用之聯絡資訊 
         
圖四、年長者居家生活之溝通流程 
    
圖五、影響年長者溝通行為之各層面因素 
八、參考文獻 
1. Beyer, H. and Holtzblatt, K. (1997), Contextual Design : A Customer-Centered Approach to 
Systems Designs, Morgan Kaufman Publishers. 
2. Crabtree, A. and Rodden, T. (2004) Domestic Routines and Design for the Home. Computer 
Supported Cooperative Work: The Journal of Collaborative Computing, vol. 13 (2), pp.  
3. Cross, K. and Warmack, A. (2000), Contextual Inquiry: Quantification and Use in Videotaped 
Analysis, Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, ACM Press, New York, NY, 
USA, 317-318. 
4. Fouskas, K., Pateli, A., Spinellis D., Virola, H. (2002) ”Applying Contextual Inquiry for 
Capturing End-Users Behaviour Requirements for Mobile Exhibition Services,” in 1st 
International Conference on Mobile Business, Athens, Greece, 2002. 
5. Frohlich, D. and Kraut, R., (2002), The Social Context of Home Computing, in R. Harper 
(Ed.), Inside the smart home, London: Springer-Verlag. pp 127-162. 
6. Harper, R., Evergeti, V., Hamill, L., and Shatwell, B., (2003), The Social Organisation of 
Communication in the Home of the Twenty-First Century: an Analysis of the Future of 
Paper-Mail and Implications for the Design of Electronic Alternatives, Cognition, Technology, 
and Work, vol. 5, pp 15-22. 
7. Jang, C.Y., Chen, T.H., Huang, C.C.S., Deng, Y.S., Lee, Y.T. (2006) “Beyond Lyrics: Group 
Communication in KTV,” 7th Asia-Pacific Conference on Computer-Human Interaction, 
Taipei, Taiwan, 2006. 
8. Kantner, L., T. Keirnan. (2003) “Field Research in Commercial Product Development.” In 
Proceedings of UPA 2003. Scottsdale, AZ, June 2003. 
9. Ko, A. (2003), A Contextual Inquiry of Expert Programmers in an Event-Based Programming 
Environment, CHI2003, 1036-1037.  
10. Liu, C. C., Lai, Y. C., Lee, C. Y., Sun, T. H., and Deng, Y. S. (2005), A User Study on the 
Waste-Sorting Activity in Fast Food Restaurants, The International Design Congress IASDR 
2005, Nov. 1-4, 2005, YunLin, Taiwan. 
11. Mateas, M., Salvador, T., Scholtz, J., and Sorensen, D., (1996), Engineering Ethnography in 
the Home, in proceedings of CHI96, April13–18, 1996 CHI96. 
12. Notess, M. (2005) “Using Contextual Design for Digital Library Field Studies.” Presented at 
the JCDL workshop, "Studying Digital Library Users In the Wild: Theories, Methods, and 
Analytical Approaches,” Denver, CO, June 10-11, 2005. 
13. O’Brien, J., Rodden, T., Rouncefield, M., Hughes, J., (1999) At Home with the Technology: 
an Ethnographic Study of a Set-top-box Trial. ACM Transactions on 
Computer-HumanInteraction 6(3) pp 282-308. 
14. Venkatesh, A., (1985), A Conceptualization of the Household/ Technology Interaction, 
Advances in Consumer Research Volume 12, pp.189-194 
15. Venkatesh, A., and Vitalari, N. (1990): A Longitudinal Analysis of Computing in the Home. 
NSF Report Grant No. IST- 8313470, Graduate School of Management, and Public Policy 
Research Organization University of California, Irvine. 
表 Y04 
14. Design for Aged Users   
15. Universal Design   
16. Rough Sets     
30. Korean Culture   
31. Evaluation of Kansei   
32. Measurement   
33. Kansei Application   
二、與會心得 
參與會議為日本感性工學 (JSKE)以及韓國情感學會 (KOSES)及歐洲設計與情感學
會 (D & E)聯合舉辦的第一屆感性工學與感情研究國際會議 (The International Conference 
on Kansei Engineering and Emotion Research)，試圖從東方和西方兩種不同文化、研究方法
和觀點的整合和比較，重新討論感性與情感設計，在於生活、文化、社會和工業等相關領
域上呈現的各種議題。 
在亞洲，感性相關的研究，主要由本感性工學以及韓國情感學會所主導。感性工學在
日本以及亞洲部分國家，其研究方法和結果，長期以來廣泛應用於產品開發、纖維科技、
設計、認知心理學、機器人學、以及資訊科技的領域中，最近幾年，也逐漸被西方國家所
認識。在歐洲部份，與感性議題相關的代表性研究，則多由歐洲設計與情感學會所成就。
這次藉由日本、韓國，與歐洲聯合舉辦國際研討會，更能傳遞東方與西方不同的研究觀點、
特徵，並且讓東西方的感性工學與情感研究二研究面向在未能有更穩定、良好的交流。 
感性（工學）研究領域自日本發展以來，在台灣和亞洲其他國家，已逐漸被廣泛的學
習、應用。然而，卻尚未被西方國家所認識。若能藉由本次國際研討會，彼此交流、重新
定義、檢視感性和情感二觀點之差異，未來在於文化、社會、工業與設計議題上之應用都
能有更豐富的資源、研究方法可斟酌參考。 
在專題演講當中，Paul Hekkert 提出共通的、文化脈絡下的、個人等三種層次的經驗，
以及經驗的三個組成：美感等感官上的感受、意義建構、情緒反應。藉由此架構在衍生適
當的設計策略提供給設計師參考。而在另一方面，同樣從經驗的面向來考慮設計，Kun-Pyo 
Lee 也提出文化的三種層次，並且藉由分析物品使用前、使用中、使用後等三個階段所產
生的不同情緒反應，來考慮經驗的構成。Kun-Pyo Lee 並在演講的最後，介紹幾項 HCIDL 
(Human-Centered Interaction Design Lab at KAIST)的設計實例作為經驗設計之參考。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
無 
四、建議 
綜觀此研討會，與會的研究學者眾多，並來自於不同文化、國家，的確提供各國學者
有良好的機會理解和認識他國的研究方法和思潮。然而由於研討會的議題過於寬廣，使發
表之論文也相對的龐雜、繁複，並使得參與者不易安排適當的參與議程。另外一明顯的特
徵是，亞洲的參與者，尤其像日本、韓國、台灣，較沒有勇氣於會議中參與討論、發表自
己的想法和意見，這使得學術交流的機會大為減少。或許台灣在未來教育學子的過程中，
應當更鼓勵學子勇於發問、參與課堂討論。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
研討會之論文集。 
tea leisurely at the parks or the temples, where they are 
able to make a new friend or chat with their friends while 
drinking tea. However, there are not too many elaborate 
rituals in most occasions in terms of Taiwan’s tea 
activities. Its own philosophy seems to connote 
refinement, personal relationships with others, and the 
interaction with one’s surroundings [3]. 
Today, tea drinking is coming back as a more common 
and leisure, healthier social activity in Taiwan. Via the 
thorough inquiry of tea drinking activities, this research 
reveals that tea drinking activities serve different values 
to modern people in Taiwan and the inherent virtue and 
genial social contact in the conventions, which have been 
examined as well. For the busy lives full of stress, 
tension and anxiety, the interpersonal interaction, 
concerns, and embodied contacts seem less and less. 
Hence, tea drinking from social functions turns out a 
cohesive activity for a family, a habitual practice formed 
which can be inherited from one generation to another. In 
addition, with the reports of medical benefits of green tea, 
tea drinking becomes a popular and healthy activity 
engaging more people of different ages to approach. 
Furthermore, tea culture in Taiwan also reflects the 
reaction from cultural heritage against the western 
modernism. The cultural heritage of the artifacts, tea sets, 
and physical environment of tea drinking context, also 
particularly shows the old fashion, native decoration, and 
declares a revival of local conventions.  
This research presents a case, applying multiple user 
experience research methods in order to inspect the 
different aspects of Taiwan’s tea drinking customs, from 
personal perceptions to the entire cultural context. Based 
on the results in this research, new technology or 
information science would be applied to the cohesive 
activities of tea drinking for a family or intimate friends. 
In addition, the old and valuable but possibly dying 
traditions will not only be inherited but reborn in a brand 
new way. 
 
2. Method 
The main issues discussed in the research involved the 
whole context of tea drinking activities, social contact, 
and subtle perspectives of different interactions among 
people. The research could be separated into two stages. 
The first stage is the investigation procedure to have a 
compendium of tea culture in Taiwan by contextual 
inquires and in-depth interviews. Based on the thorough 
understanding, personal concerns and inherent needs of 
the group accustomed to tea drinking were explored. The 
second stage is the concept design process. A workshop 
was held with real users and experts of different 
disciplines, based on the main issues integrated in a 
previous study, several design suggestions and concepts 
were discussed and developed. 
 
2.1 Field Investigation 
In the first stage, to understand the target group of tea 
drinking, three informants of different age brackets, 
including a retired senior, a middle-aged parent and a 
young freshman, were recruited for distinguishing the 
significant meanings of tea drinking in the different 
generations. All the informants have more than ten-year 
experience in Chinese tea drinking, and make tea at least 
once a week in recent months.  
In the initial stage, contextual inquiry [4,5], a field 
data-gathering technique based on anthropology and 
ethnography, was used to observe the whole process of 
tea drinking in the field, the overall work practice across 
all users, and the real surroundings of those informants. 
To attain a thorough understanding of the different 
generations’ perspectives and attitude toward Taiwan’s 
tea drinking circumstances and customs, in-depth open 
interviews were also conducted with the informants. The 
research issues included the informants’ purpose of tea 
drinking, their emotional vibrations and special 
experiences of the environments or the artifacts. The 
meanings of others’ participation in such activities and 
the particular impression of others on tea drinking were 
also inquired to reveal the latent social interactions.  
All the data derived in the previous studies were 
interpreted and decoded into an affinity diagram, and 
five consolidated work models [6], including a flow 
model, a sequence model, an artifact model, a culture 
model, and a physical model, were also constructed to 
explore the problems and present the important design 
issues in tea drinking activities. 
 
2.2 Concept Design 
In the stage of the participatory design, a co-design 
[7,8] workshop was held by prior interviewees and many 
a researchers from different disciplines, including 
industrial design, computer science, information 
engineering, and civil engineering, to find out the 
specific problems in a field and to devise the reasonable 
and meaningful design ideas from these different field 
experts. 
3.1.2 Attitudes toward lives 
Advocating the nature, unsophisticatedness, and 
tranquility was once the most important part of Chinese 
tea culture. Through investigation, the same values of 
experiencing the environment were found again in the 
tea having customs in Taiwan:  
 
Sometimes we have a family travel… we’d picnic 
on the spot and just sit on the grass…The tea set 
would be arranged immediately, and a pot of 
fragrant tea would be served…To share tea with 
family members in the nature environment is so 
comfortable. You can smell the fresh air and easily 
escape from the hustle and bustle of urban life 
(quotes from in-depth interviews).  
 
In the Chinese societies, the inner core of tea art is to 
develop man's intrinsic value or to keep the balance 
between humans and nature. There is no inextricable 
formality of tea having especially in Taiwan, but people 
do emphasize on the interactions with others and the 
environment while drinking tea.  
Making tea and chatting with friends in a slow pace 
could provide physical and mental relaxation. One of the 
informants also drew an analogy between tea having and 
practicing: both of them make people only concentrate 
their attention on making tea with patience. It could be a 
regime to learn an earnest attitude toward life. 
 
3.1.3 Social Interactions and Relationships 
Since laorencha became prevalent in 1970s, tea 
drinking has been one of the most important common 
domestic activities of different generations. Tea drinking 
always goes alone with other social activities, and 
deepens people’s impression on these activities through 
various and frequent interactions with others in serving 
tea and sharing tea. It may improve people’s social 
relationships in three different aspects: expending 
personal social range, maintaining the social ties with 
friends or even coworkers, and enhance the cohesion and 
identification of an original family. 
  Most people like to entertain their friends very much 
by making tea. If the brewing tea could gain the guests’ 
praises, it would be a vital honor for the host. For this 
reason, it’s still a courteous way at present in Taiwan to 
make new friends by introducing one’s tea collection and 
through tea tasting. Therefore, this traditional customs 
could enhance people’s social interactions in various 
phases. In this research, one informant said it could be 
much easier to make his business talks or sales more 
successfully by offering a pot of his precious green tea.  
  Tea drinking also makes people have more commerce 
with their friends. The whole context of it becomes the 
catalysis to liven such a reunion up. A lot of interactions 
between guests and hosts take place in tea making tea, 
tea pouring, tea receiving, and tea tasting. One could 
express his concern for friends through the conversations, 
tiny gestures, or emotional expressions, while drinking 
tea. These earnest actions also make people more 
open-minded, and it even has the social gatherings 
conducted in a more cordial atmosphere. 
  Not only enhancing the social ties, tea drinking also 
strengthens people’s identification with their family 
members. In most cases, tea drinking is a way to show 
one’s regard for his family members. With the rapid 
social change, people struggle with the hustle and bustle 
of modern lives and begin to cherish all opportunities to 
get along with their family members. Tea drinking habit 
formed becomes a usual practice inherited from one 
generation to another. With the different realizations of 
generations about tea drinking, the different progress of 
tea drinking customs of a family might be reflected in 
Taiwan. Besides, the old stand for the laorencha culture 
in a rich and fertile agricultural era, and the middle-aged 
and the young show forth the needs of relaxation 
escaping anxieties accompanied with Taiwan’s 
modernity. 
 
I could relax my mind by having tea and chatting 
with my parents, it’s such a leisure activity…I could 
have some small talks with my family members at 
this moment. It’s quite different from other familial 
activities. If you’re just sitting next to your parents 
and watching television, you might have no 
conversation with each other. But we are always 
bound to have an intimate talk since sharing a pot 
of tea (quotes from in-depth interviews). 
 
Today, tea drinking has played different roles for 
generation of different ages, and it does reflect the 
changes of social phenomena and values. However, this 
traditional custom does revive and their lives are 
enlivened.  Therefore, in terms of people’s various 
requirements of the essence of tea drinking, it definitely 
gives the designers a chance to rethink and reform the tea 
circumstances. 
3.2.3 Consolidated Cultural Model 
The consolidated cultural model (Fig.2) shows 
traditional tea cultures obviously affects some people’s in 
Taiwan. Since the prevalent laorencha custom spreads 
from the countryside to a city, it’s also inherited from one 
generation to another. People who are fond of tea may 
introduce their friends or family members to form a tea 
drinking habit, and it is expected that more and more 
people might start getting interested in this revival of tea 
drinking. Furthermore, there are some more possibilities 
to make tea drinking more attractive, such as being 
influenced by relatives or friends, the health benefits of 
green tea, promotion of mental alertness and physical 
relaxation. 
Table1. Consolidated Sequence Model  
Activity Intent Abstract Step 
Arranging a tea 
service 
．Make sure tea serving proceed smoothly ~ Arrange a tea service 
．Place the tea trolley 
Boiling water ．Prepare for making tea 
．For sanitary conditions 
．Fill a teakettle with water 
．Use the electromagnetic oven to boil water 
Pouring boiled water 
into a thermos 
．Master the temperature of boiled water ~ Pour boiled water into a thermos 
．Wait the boiling water to cool down 
Warming the teapot ．Scald teapot for sanitary conditions 
．Complete the taste and fragrance of tea  
~ Pour hot water from the thermos into the teapot 
．Pour all hot water from the teapot into each  
tea cup in order 
．Empty the cups on the tea tray 
Grabbing tea by a 
tea-ladle 
．Attain proper tea but keep the tea  
caddy dried 
．Observe hue of tea 
~ Grab proper tea by a tea-ladle 
．Put tea on a small dish 
．Observe hue of tea 
．Put tea into the teapot 
Scalding tea ．Remove the impurities in tea leaves  
．Warm the teapot 
~ Pour hot water from the thermos into the teapot 
~ First waiting of brewing 
．Agitate tea leaves into teapot by a stirrer 
．Pour the first brewing tea from the teapot into  
the tea tray 
Brewing ．Master the tea consistency ~ Pour hot water from the thermos into the teapot 
~ Second waiting for brewing 
Pouring ．Make each cup of tea with the 
 same taste 
．Pour brewing tea from the teapot into each  
(fragrance) cup in order 
．Pour the rest tea into a tea collector 
Initiate Tasting ．Ascertain the taste ．Smell and taste a little 
Smelling and 
drinking 
．Enjoy served tea ．Smell and taste a little ( Pour tea from the fragrance 
 cup into a sipping cup in order) 
．Drink 
 
Table2. Problems of Consolidated Sequence Model 
Activity Step Problem (Breakdown) 
Arranging a tea 
service 
Arrange a tea service A high-quality log tea tray suits the pottery (or 
porcelain) tea set, but it is too heavy and difficult to 
clean up. The stainless-steel-made one is convenient and 
portable, but unsightly. 
Pouring boiled water 
into a thermos 
Pour boiled water into a thermos It’s hard to aster the temperature of boiled water. 
Warming the teapot Pour hot water from the thermos into the 
teapot 
It’s difficult to handle the teapot with boiled water. 
Grabbing tea by a 
tea-ladle 
Grab proper tea by a tea-ladle It is based on one’s experiences to grab how much tea. 
Scalding tea First wait for brewing  It’s hard to control time scale for brewing. 
Brewing Repeatedly wait for brewing  It’s hard to control time scale for brewing. 
Having the right proper tea consistency depends on 
personal experiences and concentration. 
proper tea consistency with limited auxiliaries because it 
is believed that having experiences is a must in tea 
making. 
 
4. Design Implication 
Based on the findings of tea drinking customs in 
Taiwan, the implications for future technologies and 
design concepts of tea drinking are delivered in this 
section. According to tea drinkers’ requirements and 
concerns, a number of design suggestions and design 
concepts, which could enrich traditional tea drinking 
culture and increase social contacts while drinking tea, 
are proposed in the co-design discussion. The main 
aspects of design implications are as follows: 
 
Facilitation of tea service: The main problems revealed 
in research are that the artifacts used in tea making are 
too many to handle and that the process of tea serving 
requires highly concentration and experiences. To have 
tea making successfully, the ideas of tangible design 
[11-13] or making the users operate the objects 
intuitively without thought [14,15] might be a chief 
consideration. In addition, the mobility, durability, and 
convenience of tea making equipments are most tea 
drinkers’ prior concerns. How to simplify the complex 
artifacts of tea drinking without losing the essence of the 
traditions should be a top priority in redesign. 
 
Enhancement of social interactions: Tea serving 
represents a way to express one’s concerns about others 
and makes them tied up with their family, friends or even 
coworkers. All the interactions and joyful memories of 
tea drinking should be recorded as remarkable events by 
some innovative design, which contains more subtle 
expressions than a picture does in a photo album. In 
addition, for a family member who lives in the distance, 
a proper application of multimedia or information 
technology to capture such a traditional social activity 
might keep mild but intimate interactions with one’s 
family, and also convey the deep concerns through it.  
 
 
 
Fig.4 Consolidated Artifact Model 
The Souvenir as a Travel Memories Keeper and Trigger 
 
Yen-chuan LAI*, Yi-shin DENG** 
 
*National Chiao Tung University, Institute of Applied Arts, Hsin Chu City, Taiwan, to_engine@yahoo.com.tw 
** National Chiao Tung University, Institute of Applied Arts, Hsin Chu City, Taiwan, ydest@faculty.nctu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract: Souvenirs have been regarded as highly significant material objects. People consider a souvenir which can keep 
and evoke travel memories to be the most meaningful and cherished one. In the journey, tourists tend to collect material 
objects as souvenirs to make their memories tangible. After the journey, these souvenirs serve as symbols of travel 
experience and evoke memories. 
 
On the one hand, memories can be kept by a meaningful souvenir. On the other hand, memories attached on a souvenir 
make the souvenir cherished by people. In summary, the objects keep the memories and meanwhile the memories keep the 
objects as well. The subtle, emotional connection linking objects and memories makes both association between people and 
objects, people and memories last longer. By studying the emotions that people hold toward souvenirs and the relation 
between souvenirs, memories and tourists, it is possible to find out how to strengthen, or further, to build this connection. 
 
In this research, two main parts are investigated; namely: how a souvenir is being a memories keeper and being a 
memories trigger. Contextual inquiries and interviews are conducted to collect data from the contexts. Through qualitative 
analysis and discussion, implications for memories keepers and triggers are respectively delivered, which are suggested to 
be interlaced and integrated for application. The results are referable for designers to derive ideas concerning meaningful 
and cherished souvenirs which keep and evoke memories. 
Key words: souvenir, memories, journey, object attachment 
 
1. Introduction 
  From a perspective of meaning of things, souvenirs are 
highly significant material objects. A souvenir brought 
from a journey can keep and remind people of travel 
memories. The subtle, emotional connection linking 
objects and memories makes both association between 
people and objects, people and memories last longer. 
 
A souvenir as a travel memories keeper and memories 
trigger means a lot to tourists [1]. Most of the currently 
existing souvenir merchandise, which can be found 
universally, however, does not meet people’s expectation. 
Those products are often considered formulaic, tacky or 
meaningless by tourists. By studying the emotions that 
people hold toward souvenirs and the relation between 
souvenirs, memories and tourists, it is possible to find 
out how to strengthen or build the connection between 
objects and memories in order to bring out ideas for 
designing meaningful souvenirs. 
To achieve the goal, the research aims to discover how 
an object is being a memory keeper and a memory 
trigger for tourists. The main subject discussed in this 
research is “material objects brought from overseas 
journeys”. The relation between souvenirs and memories 
is the main point; therefore the souvenirs are not limited 
to commercial merchandise. Moreover, since tourists’ 
behaviors differ along their age, the research focuses on 
younger group, in which memories keeping behavior can 
be generally observed. 
 
2. Methodology 
This research aims to discover how tourists keep 
memories in objects and how objects evoke memories. 
Tourists’ behavior, memories evoked by souvenirs and 
the context for evoking needs to be investigated. The 
researcher should gain ideas about how and why people 
get the souvenir; what do they tell from it and the 
environment or occasion for them to recall the memories 
3. Findings 
After contextual inquiry and interview, the transcripts 
are coded into notes and then clustered into patterns, 
which are organized to create a hierarchy. Findings are 
therefore sorted with the affinity diagram. Five main 
themes have been concluded to show the various phases 
of findings about a meaningful souvenir. 
 
The first theme is about how people get the souvenir. 
Tourists’ behavior of getting things, especially which is 
related to memories keeping, is studied. Five actions are 
proposed: collecting the same item from different places, 
picking up piece-of-the-rock [3], taking propaganda 
artifact such as leaflets and business cards, purchasing 
merchandise, and passively preserving things they got 
due to other reasons. 
 
The second theme is about why the souvenir is 
meaningful. Three kinds of factors are categorized: first, 
the importance and high using frequency; second, ability 
to remind people of explicit events; finally, the efforts 
people pay for acquiring the souvenir. 
 
The third theme is about what the souvenir evokes. 
The narratives of travel memories people talked from the 
souvenirs were analyzed and sorted according to the 
contents.  
 
The forth theme is about where the souvenir is placed. 
The states that souvenirs exist in people’s daily life are 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.2 Affinity Diagram 
identified to three main aspects: display, storage and 
usage. Souvenirs existing states can be determined by the 
journey and the feature of souvenir and then place a great 
influence on evoking memories. 
 
Finally, the fifth theme is about when the souvenir 
evokes memories. Some specific timing and occasion for 
memories to be evoked are found, such as a visit paid by 
friends. 
 
4. Discussions 
Issues which contribute to finding out design 
implications are brought up from the findings for 
discussions. The discussions are divided to two main 
parts: on the one hand, how memories are kept in the 
journey is inferred from findings of tourists’ behavior 
and contents of memories evoked. On the other hand, 
how memories are evoked after the journey is brought 
out from souvenirs existing states and contexts of 
evoking. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.3 Discussions Structure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to make it a souvenir that retains the memories. 
 
The meaning of miniature is similar with image, yet it 
is three-dimensional in itself. Miniatures are usually 
delivering symbolic messages of the travel destination, 
e.g., famous landmark, a traditional statue or a 
representative character. According to Gordon’s [3] 
typology, “symbolic shorthand” can be referred. 
Symbolic shorthand souvenir represents a typical sight of 
the place, but it is “three-dimensional, stylized, and out 
of scale”. 
 
4.2.2 Encoding on Metonym 
Piece-of-the-whole souvenirs are fragments from the 
entire scene, actual pieces of the whole. They are the 
most representative type of metonymic souvenirs [3]. 
Most of them are natural material gathered from Nature. 
Memories of scenery are encoded to the scrap, a small 
part of scenery. The complete scenery can be 
reconstructed based on it after the journey. It can also act 
as a sample to remind people of the details of the 
environment: color of the sand, fine or rough, etc. 
 
The same item refers to the same kind of thing but 
not the same piece. Events and experiences participated 
by a specific object can be encoded onto the same kind 
of object, while not necessarily to be the exact piece 
attending the events. They are usually ordinary products 
such as teabags from Egypt. The origin of the item is 
important for meaning to evolve from. 
 
An opposite aspect of encoding memories by feature 
of souvenir is to encode memories with other versions 
which are different from what people see in the journey. 
The scenery is usually changeful and people may wish to 
possess different versions as well. But even if the images 
owned by people are different, the encoded memories of 
scenery are still the one people saw there. 
 
4.3 Activities contributing to evoking memories 
Five main activities that contribute to evoking 
memories after the journey are identified. 
 
4.3.1 Arranging souvenirs 
After the journey, people start to arrange the souvenirs 
into their living space. Three-dimensional and decorative 
objects which do not have many practical functions are 
more likely to be placed outside. Some bits and pieces 
need to be sorted out first. During this process, people 
are re-experiencing the journey. The container used for 
sorting can becomes a substitute for souvenirs inside. 
When arranging the souvenirs, intentionally or not, 
people are presetting a context for memories evoking. 
 
4.3.2 Seeing souvenirs 
It was found that people have an adaptation for 
souvenirs which they see all the time so that the 
memories are not evoked. Therefore the visibility of 
souvenirs is a critical issue. The souvenir which is 
merely visible for people to catch a glimpse of or is seen 
once in a while is ablest to trigger the memories. 
 
4.3.3 Reading souvenirs 
The souvenirs which can be “read” refer to souvenirs 
collection. When people “see” the collection, an integral 
image of journey is shown. When people “read” the 
collection, detailed travel experiences are revealed. For 
reading souvenirs, stronger intention is needed and also 
people are more deeply engaged. While reading, 
collections evoke series of memories following either 
location or event as an index. 
 
4.3.4 Using souvenirs 
Based on definition of souvenir, function of souvenir 
is to store and stimulate memories [8]. However, 
manufactured souvenirs usually have other functions, 
e.g., a mug and a t-shirt. “The second function”, the 
function other than keeping or evoking memories, makes 
souvenir practical. Practicability can strengthen the 
association between souvenirs and people. The specific 
purpose that people need to achieve by the souvenirs 
becomes an indirect memories trigger. When people use 
it once for a while, it brings the memories evocation into 
full play.  
 
4.3.5 Introducing souvenirs 
Some souvenirs can easily create an atmosphere for 
memories sharing. They can be carried or worn to make 
people around the owner curious or interested then ask 
the owner questions. Once the owner starts to introduce 
the souvenir, memories are evoked. When people share 
travel experiences, tangible souvenirs are good props for 
giving narratives [9]. 
 
5. Design Implications 
After discussions, six implications for memories 
