 1. 進行文獻的解讀，包括 802.16e 和 802.16j 的行動管理的相關文獻。 
2. 針對 Mobile RS 進行文獻的解讀。 
3. 分析目前針對 Mobile RS 所提出的各種研究，比較分析其優缺點。 
4. 針對 handover、頻寬分配與 Mobile RS 移動方式提出各種可行的方案。 
5. 對提出的方案以電腦進行程式模擬、分析數據，與撰寫論文報告。 
 
四、結果與討論 
在計畫執行過程中，我們首先針對 Mobile RS 的位置、數目、RS 的能力，對於系統的效能產
生的影響進行文獻解讀。我們參考許多的文獻，討論 Mobile RS 設立的所在可以讓 MS 得到
怎樣的調變與傳輸速率，推論 Mobile RS 的數目與 Mobile RS 的位置對於系統效能所造成的
影響。 
 
我們使用自行設計的模擬平台（i.e., 非 NS2 等工具），在平台上模擬在一 BS 涵蓋區域下，整
個 BS 與 RSs 所構成的系統的效能。我們在評估系統效能時，採用的是 New Blocking 和 Force 
Terminated probabilities 等參數。雖然在現有關於 Relays 系統效能的文獻探討中，都是在討論
吞吐量（throughput），但是 throughput 並不能代表全部使用者的感受。對於連線要求被拒絕，
或者連線中被斷訊也是嚴重的失敗。因此，我們將 MS 的 New Blocking 和 Force Terminated 
probabilities 等與使用者感受有密切相關的量測參數，列為最重要的輸出參數，用以評鑑系統
好壞。因為對於 OFDMA 這樣的系統，分配資源其實就也只是分配 subchannels，所以我們也
使用了傳統 GSM 分配通道的概念，來管理 BS 與 RS 的資源。透過參數的設定，決定系統的
架構，就可模擬出 MS 移動的狀況，進而算出 New Blocking 和 Force Terminated probabilities
等參數。此部份發表一篇會議論文： 
The Performance Evaluation for WiMAX Relay Systems. Peilin Li, Wei-Ru Lai, Xianpei Wang. 
Post on 2010 年海峡两岸信息科学与信息技术学术交流会. July 9-11, 2010. 
論文如後所附。另外數學演算分析模型也已經完成，正在與電腦進行程式模擬出的數據進行
比對，並且正在傳寫論文投稿。 
 
計畫執行的第二個項目在討論 Mobile RS 的資源管理。既然 RSs 的優點多於額外的負荷，想
必使用 RSs 的狀況將越來越多。當 Mobile RS 到達的某一區域，已有其他基地台或 Mobile RS
使用相同或相鄰的頻段，此區域新的基地台就必須重新分配新的使用頻段給 Mobile RS。如果
同一個 BS 的涵蓋範圍下有許多的 Mobile RS，這些 RS 不能使用相同的頻段，是否系統有足
夠的頻道足以分配給這些 RSs ﹖這個問題為頻譜分配的工作。如何讓有限的頻道分配給整個
系統中所有的 BSs 與 RSs，便轉變為頻譜分配最佳化的問題。我們也針對這個議題進行研究，
討論最佳化的解決方式。最佳化的問題通常會聯想到類神經網路、基因理論或 Particle Swarm 
Optimization 等方式。然而在實驗探討之後，我們覺得在實務上既然 Mobile RS 是會移動的，
而且可能快速移動影響整個網路的拓樸，便會需要經常且快速地重新設定頻譜。因此頻譜的
設定應以快速處理為主，所以我們將頻譜分配轉成 Graph coloring 的問題，並用 maximum 
degree first 的方式進行頻譜的分配，求取近似最佳解。 
 
本次計畫在研究過程中放棄了與原計畫想要提出對於 handover 運作方式的議題。當 Mobile 
Relays 快速地移動時，handover 運作的主要困難點在於實體層是否能快速地轉換到新的鏈
路。上層的 handover 訊息只要能事先預設好（例如高鐵有固定的路徑與行為），就可盡可能
減少訊息傳送的負荷（例如不經過認證就直接通訊）。所以我們覺得原本計畫書提出的這部
份比例不值得研究，因此並沒有針對此一議題提出新的想法與研究成果。 
  
concludes this work.  
2 Related Background 
In this section, we briefly introduce some 
technologies and terminologies which affect the 
performance of the relay systems significantly.  
2.1 The Physical Layer (PHY) 
From the PHY processing perspective, an 
RS has two modes, Transparent (T-RS) and 
Non-Transparent (NT-RS) [3,9]. An MS 
connected to a T-RS receives broadcast signals 
directly from the MR-BS and is not aware of 
the existence of this T-RS. A T-RS relays only 
data traffic to enhance user throughput. An 
NT-RS operates as a MR-BS to provide 
throughput improvement, coverage extension 
and higher bandwidth efficiency. More 
importantly, it also can offer full support for 
MS mobility applications. 
The 802.16j uses OFDMA (Orthogonal 
Frequency Division Multiple Access), in which 
the subcarrier and the power allocations are 
based on the channel conditions to maximize 
the throughput. Adaptive Modulation and 
Coding (AMC) is one of keys that enable high 
performance in OFDMA. Allowable burst 
profiles are defined in specification.  
Subchannels are the basic units in which 
user data and signaling are allocated and 
delivered. Various subcarrier permutation 
schemes, e.g., Downlink Partial Usage of 
Subcarriers (DL PUSC), are allowed in 802.16 
standards. In the DL PUSC subcarrier 
permutation scheme, there are totally 720 
subchannels in a 5ms frame. Since AMC is 
adopted, a subchannel may carry different size 
of bits. For example, the data rate of a 
subchannel is 19.2kbps if 16-QAM R1/2 is 
used.   
2.1 The MAC Common Part Sublayer 
WiMAX provides the Quality of Service 
(QoS) guarantee and the mobility management. 
IEEE 802.16-2009 defines 6 scheduling 
services to deliver and handle user data with 
different QoS requirements. The Unsolicited 
grant service (UGS) may be the most common 
used scheduling service and is designed to 
support real-time service flows that generate 
fixed-size data packets. Voice over IP (VoIP) is 
a kind of UGS and may use 64kbps for the data 
transmission. Whenever a VoIP call is 
connected, the network must provide enough 
resource (e.g., enough subchannels) to support 
the good voice quality.  
Whenever an MS moves from one MR-BS 
to another, the VoIP call may be 
force-terminated because there is no enough 
subchannels in the new MR-BS. Handover 
failures also occur when an MS moves from 
the MR-BS to the RS, and vice versa. In 
addition, if an MS moves from a place that 
uses 16QAM R1/2 to another place that uses 
QPSK R1/2, the connection may be dropped 
when no more subchannels can be assigned to 
the MS. 
3 The Simulation Model 
In this section, we propose a simulation 
model to investigate system performance for 
WiMAX relays. The simulation model is 
similar to that proposed in [10, 11] but only the 
part of downlink is considered here.  
3.1 Network Topology 
We consider IEEE 802.16j TDD-OFDMA 
based two-hop relay network. Assume 10MHz 
bandwidth and carrier frequency 2.3GHz are 
used. Because IEEE 802.16j OFDMA system 
adopts AMC, in order to evaluate the system 
performance more accurately, we divided the 
whole service area into hexagonal blocks as 
shown in Figure 1. Six T-RSs are placed evenly 
at the margin of the MR-BS and cooperate with 
the MR-BS to form a complete service area. In 
this case, service areas can mosaic closely and 
have no blank hole. To simplify the model, only 
QPSK R3/4 (marked as 9 and ½) and 16QAM 
  
In this section, we suggest an algorithm to 
calculate the residence time of MSs within a 
specific region which is grouped by hexagons 
marked with the same symbols. The goal is to 
reduce the time and space complexity of the 
simulation. Because we are only interested in 
events (e.g., handover) that the number of 
subchannel requested changes, it is not 
necessary to simulate every movement of MSs. 
For example, while an MS continues moving 
within the region that includes all hexagons 
marked with · (called as Region A) and is 
served by the MR-BS (16QAM R1/2), the 
number of subchannels never changes. In fact, 
we only need to know the time interval between 
an MS moves in and leaves this region.  
Let S be the average number of 
movements from the time that an MS moves in 
the region to the time that the MS leaves the 
region. By using the example of Region A, we 
introduce the algorithm. Due to the symmetry, 
six hexagons in the out layer are considered to 
be absolutely same. Let a1 and a2 be the average 
number of movements that a MS stays in one of 
6 hexagons in the out layer and that MS stays in 
the central hexagon, respectively. The recursion 
is expressed as follows:  
1 1 1 2
1 (1 1 1 1 1 1)
6
a a a a= + + + + + + + +    (1) 
2 1 1 1 1 1 1
1 (1 1 1 1 1 1 )
6
a a a a a a a= + + + + + + + + + + +    (2) 
In (1), a1 is calculated by thinking its prior 
step. An MS enters the hexagon from one of six 
directions: moves from a hexagon in out layer 
with probability 1/3 (so a1=1 +a1), moves from 
the center hexagon (so a1=1 +a2) with 
probability 1/6, and moves from other region 
with probability 1/2 (so a1=1). In (2), the MS 
comes from the hexagon in the out layer with 
probability 1 and a2=1 +a1. After getting the 
values of a1 and a2, S can be calculated by S = 
(6a1 +a2)/7= 2.47619, where 6/7 is the 
probability that MSs are in the central hexagon 
and 1/7 is the probability the MSs are in the out 
layer. Therefore, the mean of the residence time 
in Region A is set to 2 min ×  2.47619＝
4.95238 min.  
4 Numeric Results 
Based on the simulation experiments, the 
impact of the number of RSs (denoted by m) 
are discussed as following. We assume that 
 
Figure 2. Frame Structure 
 
  
 
Figure 4.  The effects of the number of RSs on Po, Pf & Pnc for 
MR-BS 
 
 
 
Figure 5.  The effects of the number of RSs on Po, Pf & Pnc for 
the RSs 
 
5 Conclusions 
In this paper, we propose a simulation 
model to emulate the system performance of 
WiMAX relay based on the standard IEEE 
802.16j. In addition, we suggest a network 
topology for relay networks, where service 
areas can mosaic closely for two-hop relay 
network. Instead of calculating the network 
capacity from the operator’s viewpoint, our 
model evaluates the new call blocking 
probability and force-termination probability 
which directly affect the perception of end 
users. We used this model to study the effect of 
the number of RSs which deployed around the 
MR-BS. The result indicates that as the number 
of RSs is larger, the system performance may 
be degraded due to the transmission overhead 
on the frame between the MR-BS and the RS. 
The result can provide a guideline for the 
WiMAX network operator in the deployment of 
relay systems. 
References 
[1] Jeffrey G.Andrews,Arunabha Ghosh,Rias Muhamed, 
“Fundamentals of WiMAX-Understanding Broadband Wireless 
Networking,” 2007.  
[2] “IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks Part 
16: Air Interface for Broadband Wireless Access Systems”, IEEE 
Standard 802.16-2009, IEEE, May 2009. 
[3] “IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks; Part 
16: Air Interface for Broadband Wireless Access Systems; 
Amendment 1: Multiple Relay Specification”, IEEE Standard 
802.16j-2009, IEEE, June 2009. 
[4] Shiang-Jiun Lin,Wern Ho Sheen,I-Kang Fu,Chia-chi Huang. 
“Resource Scheduling with Directional Antennas for Multi-hop 
Relay Networks in Manhattan-like Environment,” IEEE Mobile 
WiMAX Symposium, pp.108-113, 2007.  
[5] K.R. Jacobson, Kevin, W.A. Krzymien, Edmonton, Witold. 
“System Design and Throughput Analysis for Multi-Hop 
Relaying in Cellular System,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular 
Technology. Feb 2009. 
[6] Jamil Sultan,M.Ismail,N.Misran,K.Jumari. “Spectral Efficiency 
Evaluation of Downlink Mobile Multi-hop Relay Systems 
Employing Macro Diversity Handover Technique,” IJCSNS 
International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security, 
pp.122-129, vol.8 no.5, May 2008. 
[7] Bin Lin, Pin-Han Ho, Liang-Liang Xie, Xuemin Shen. “Relay 
Station Placement in IEEE 802.16j Dual-Relay MMR 
Networks,” IEEE International Conference on Communications 
and Mobile Computing, 2008. 
[8] Alexander Maltsev,Vadim S.Sergeyev,Andrey V.Pudeyev. 
“Backhaul Network Based on WiMAX with Relay-System Level 
Performance Analysis,” ISWPC 2008. 
[9] Masato Okuda, Cheng xi Zhu, Dorin Viorel. “Multihop Relay 
Extension for WiMAX Network----Overview and Benefits of 
IEEE 802.16j Standard,” FUJISU Sci. J., 44,3, 
pp.292-302,January 2008. 
[10] Lai, Wei-Ru and Lin, Yin-Bing. “Performance Modeling of 
Wireless PBX Systems,” ACM/Baltzer Wireless Network Journal, 
5(6):479-488, 1999. 
[11] Akyildiz, I.F., Lin, Yin-Bing, Lai, Wei-Ru, Chen, R.J. “A New 
Random Walk Model for PCS Networks, ” IEEE Journal on 
Selected Areas in Communications, vol.18, no.7, pp. 1254-1260, 
July 20
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
