行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
強光纖光柵設計之探討 
An investigation of designing strong fiber Bragg gratings 
 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2215-E-145-001 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：歐陽嶽     陸軍官校大學部物理系 
計畫參與人員： 陳宗銘  陳彥勳 鄭祥熙 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
    在本計劃中，我們發展出一種強光纖
光柵的合成方法，稱之為再生式 Born 方
法。此方法源於第一級 Born 近似法，比
目前最常使用層析演算法較為精確。在與
其他設計方法的比較上，此法可以合成其
他設計方法無法設計的光纖光柵。 
 
關鍵詞：光纖光柵、層析演算法、逆散射
演算。 
 
 
Abstract 
    In this project, we have developed a new 
method for synthesizing the strong fiber 
Bragg grating. This method, which we name 
as reborn Born method, is originated from 
the first order Born approximation. It 
provides more accurate results for 
synthesizing strong fiber Bragg grating. It is 
more accurate than layer-peeling algorithm 
with synthesizing uniform grating. The 
comparison shows that the reborn Born 
method enables to synthesize the gratings 
that layer-peeling algorithm fails to calculate. 
 
Keywords : fiber Bragg grating, layer-peeling 
algorithm, inverse scattering. 
 
 
 
二、緣由與目的 
   Fiber Bragg gratings are the important 
components in fiber optical communication 
and sensing system. The researches on these 
kinds of grating involve analyzing, 
synthesizing and designing fiber Bragg 
gratings. Synthesis of fiber Bragg gratings is 
to determine the grating structure for a given 
desired reflective spectrum. The existing 
synthesis methods include the Born method1. 
The modified Fourier transform method 
(MFT)2, Gel’fand-Levitan-Marchenko 
inverse scattering formulation (GLM)3, 
genetic algorithms (GA)4, and layer peeling 
algorithms (LPA)5,6. Although the layer 
peeling algorithms are efficient for 
synthesizing a fiber Bragg grating from a 
given spectrum, they are inapplicable for 
reconstructing strong fiber Bragg grating. 
   In this report, we demonstrate a new and 
simple inverse scattering algorithm for 
reconstructing the strong fiber Bragg grating 
from highly reflective spectrum. This method 
is originated from the first order Born 
approximation7 and we name it as reborn 
Born method. It provides more accurate 
results for synthesizing strong fiber Bragg 
grating than layer-peeling algorithm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 2
the layer-peeling fails to synthesize the 
strong fiber Bragg grating ( 3>lq ) 9.  
The new method we are going to 
present here for synthesizing firer Bragg 
grating is based on two points: one is the 
Born method, always being corrected at 
synthesizing the front part of grating, and 
the other is the transfer matrix relation10: 
 
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
∆+∆∆
∆∆−∆
=⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
∆
∆
),0(
),0(
)sinh()cosh()sinh(
)sinh()sinh()cosh(
),(
),(
* β
β
ξξ
βξξξ
ξξξξ
βξ
β
β
F
B
F
B
b
b
jq
qj
b
b (5)
where ])(exp[),( zkjzbF ββ +  is the forward 
propagating wave, , and 
])(exp[),( zkjzbB ββ +−  is the backward 
propagating wave. For a given reflective 
spectrum, 
),0(
),0(),0()( β
βββ
F
B
R b
brH == , we can 
accurately get the coupling coefficient of the 
front part of grating, , by Born method. 
With the relation of Eq.(5), we can get the 
local reflection of the second section 
)0(q
),(
),(
),( β
ββ ∆
∆=∆
F
B
b
b
r . The reflective spectrum of 
the grating corresponding to the target 
grating is truncated off the first section. The 
coupling coefficient of the truncated grating 
is: 
 
⎩⎨
⎧
≤∆
∆<≤=
zzq
z
zqT ),(
0,0
)(  (6) 
where  is the coupling coefficient of 
the target grating. With Born method, we 
also can exactly calculate the first section 
coupling coefficient of the truncated grating, 
which is corresponding to the second section 
parts of the target grating. Using Eq.(2), the 
third section local reflection can be derived. 
We also can get the third layer of coupling 
coefficient by Born method. Repeating these 
procedures, we can synthesize the entire 
grating layer by layer. We name this method 
reborn Born method can accurately 
synthesize the strong Fiber Bragg grating 
that . 
)(zq
6≥ql
    In fig.1, we compare the reborn Born 
method with layer peeling algorithm in 
synthesizing the 2-cm-long grating, the 
coupling coefficient of which is 3 cm-1. From 
the synthesized result, the accuracy of the 
reborn Born method is superior to the layer 
peeling algorithm. 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1  The synthesis results of 2-cm-long uniform grating 
by the reborn Born Method and layer peeling 
algorithm. 
 
 
四、結語 
 
This method, which we name reborn Born 
method, can accurately synthesize the strong 
Fiber Bragg grating that ql = 6. We compare 
the reborn Born method with layer peeling 
algorithm by synthesizing the 2-cm-long 
grating, the coupling coefficient of which is 3 
cm-1. From the synthesized result, the 
accuracy of the reborn Born method is 
superior to the layer peeling algorithm. 
 
五、計劃成果自評 
 
在本計劃中，我們成功的展出一種強
光纖光柵的合成方法比目前最常使用層析
演算法較為精確。有關這方面的研究的論
文，已在 SPIE 五十週年會會議上發表。並
 4
3924 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 23, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2005
Iterative Layer-Peeling Algorithm for Designing
Fiber Bragg Gratings With Fabrication Constraints
Yueh Ouyang, Yunlong Sheng, Fellow, OSA, Martin Bernier, and Gilles Paul-Hus
Abstract—We demonstrate the iterative layer-peeling algorithm
(LPA) for designing fiber Bragg gratings (FBGs). The algorithm
includes explicit fabrication and spectrum constraints in the itera-
tions. The inverse layer peeling, which is two orders of magnitude
faster than the traditional transfer-matrix method, is used for
grating analysis. We are able to remove all phase shifts in a
minimum-dispersion passband filter. The new grating is easier to
fabricate with less fabrication errors. Experimental results con-
firm the designed performance.
Index Terms—Dispersion-free fiber Bragg grating (FBG),
iterative layer-peeling algorithm (LPA), optical communications,
optimization, wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM) pass-
band filter.
I. INTRODUCTION
A FIBER Bragg grating (FBG) can be synthesized for agiven spectrum using inverse-scattering methods [1]–[5].
The algorithms include the integral-equation approach, such
as the Gel’fand–Levitan–Marchenko method [2], [3], and the
differential approach, such as the layer-peeling algorithm (LPA)
[4], [5]. The LPA reconstructs the FBG layer by layer in a
recursive manner based on the causality rule. Synthesis of the
FBGs by the LPA is an important progress. The discrete LPA is
simple, computationally efficient, and accurate [5]. However,
in many cases, the FBGs synthesized by the LPA typically
have a long tap with many small-amplitude oscillations and
π-phase shifts, which are difficult to fabricate with precision.
In this paper, we present an approach for designing FBGs
using the iterative LPA. Different from the existing iterative
Gel’fand–Levitan–Marchenk methods [3] and LPA that are
implemented with iterations [6], the proposed design method
is a numerical optimization, which iterates the synthesis of the
grating with the LPA and the analysis of the grating with a fast
inverse LPA. In this scheme, a variety of explicit constraints
can be applied to the grating profile and to its spectrum. In this
paper, we apply fabrication constraints to the FBG profile
for improving its manufacturability. The designed FBGs still
satisfy the requested spectral specifications but are easier to
fabricate with less fabrication errors than those synthesized
directly by a single LPA. Iterative inverse scattering has been
used by several authors in FBG designs [7]–[12]. In this paper,
Manuscript received February 23, 2005; revised May 27, 2005.
Y. Ouyang is with the Department of Physics, Chinese Military Academy,
Fengshan Koahsiung, Taiwan 830, R.O.C. (e-mail: sam@cc.cma.edu.tw).
Y. Sheng, M. Bernier, and G. Paul-Hus are with the Center for Optics,
Photonics, and Laser (COPL), Department of Physics, Physical Engineering,
and Optics, University Laval, Sainte-Foy, QC, G1K 7P4, Canada (e-mail:
sheng@phy.ulaval.ca; martin.bernier.1@ulaval.ca; gpaulhs@phy.ulaval.ca).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JLT.2005.857765
we demonstrate and discuss the concrete steps of the constraint-
application procedure in the iterative LPA. We introduce an
inverse LPA that is much faster than the conventional transfer-
matrix method for the FBG analysis. We also show a sample
design of a bandpass FBG with minimum dispersion. In con-
trast with a recent design of dispersion-free FBGs [13], our
design with the iterative LPA uses the fabrication constraints
to exclude all the phase shifts, so that the designed FBG
can be fabricated with a conventional high-quality holographic
phase mask without requiring custom-made phase masks. As
a tradeoff, the FBG’s dispersion is slightly increased. The
designed FBG has been fabricated to confirm the designed
performance. Experimental results will be shown. Note that
the phase shifts can also be introduced with a piezo-dithering
phase-mask technique in the scanning-beam writing system
without the need for custom phase masks.
II. LPA AND INVERSE LPA
The discrete LPA has been described in detail in [5]. For syn-
thesizing the FBG from a given reflection spectrum, the FBG
is divided into thin discrete layers of thickness ∆, such that
each layer can be considered as a uniform grating. The grating
layers are further approximated as the discrete reflectors, which
are equally spaced by ∆ and have complex-valued reflection
coefficients ρ(z) independent of the frequency, so that [4]
ρ(z) =
q(z)
|q(z)| tanh (|q(z)|∆) (1)
where q(z) is the coupling coefficient at the point z of the
target grating to be synthesized. Equation (1) is obtained from
the conventional transfer matrix of a grating layer by taking
the limit |q| → ∞ while keeping the product q∆ constant. As
a consequence of the discretization, the transfer matrix of the
grating layer is approximated as a product of two matrices
TρT∆, where Tρ is the transfer matrix of the discrete reflector
and T∆ describes the pure propagation over a distance ∆.
The local complex-valued reflection spectrum of the layer
is defined as rj(β) = uj(β)/vj(β), where β is the detuning,
uj(β) and vj(β) are the forward- and backward-propagating
fields, respectively, at the front end of the jth layer. The LPA is
based on the causality rule: The local reflection spectrum of the
first layer at the front end of the grating
r1(β) ≡ r(z = 0, β) = HR(β) (2)
is determined by the leading piece of the impulse response of
the FBG, because this piece of light does not have the time
0733-8724/$20.00 © 2005 IEEE
3926 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 23, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2005
TABLE I
CHARACTERISTICS OF OPTIMAL SPECTRA FOR A GRATING WITH DIFFERENT LOB NUMBERS
constraints are applied to both the complex-valued coupling
coefficient, including the phase shifts, and the complex-valued
spectrum, including the dispersion. It has been proven that
the generalized GS algorithm is an error-reduction algorithm
and does converge, in the sense that the error monotonically
decreases during the iterations [15]. The Fourier transform is
linear, but the Riccati equation governing the relation between
the coupling coefficient and the spectrum is nonlinear, so that
the error reduction of the proposed iterative LPA is ensured
only for weak FBGs. For strong FBGs, the iterative LPA can
converge, in the sense that although the error does not decrease
monotonically, it tends towards a stable value asymptotically
with the iterations, as shown in the experiments in next sections
and in [7]–[10]. The iterative LPA simply fails to work in some
implementations. The key for the success of the iterative LPA is
to provide a high number of degrees of freedom and to apply the
constraints gradually by small steps. The mathematical study
of the convergence of the iterative LPA is, however, out of the
scope of this paper.
A. Constraints on Grating
The fabrication constraints are applied to the grating cou-
pling coefficient q(z) in the space domain to improve grating
manufacturability. The fabrication constraints on the FBG pro-
file can include removing small oscillations, scaling the FBG,
and some specific demands, such as removing phase shifts in
the FBG.
Removing small oscillations in the coupling coefficient can
shorten the grating and avoid small apodization lobes, which are
difficult to fabricate accurately. Truncating the grating length
is also necessary for the FBG to be physically realizable.
One method is first smoothing the grating by a big window
and then truncating the grating length, where the smoothed
coupling coefficients are below a threshold value. However, this
thresholding can leave a part of the lobes in the grating profile,
violating grating apodization. Another method is to retain only
a given number of main lobes of the FBG profile and remove
all other smaller lobes. We tested this method that retains one to
six lobs of the grating, respectively, in our design example. The
results are shown in Table I. The designs that retain two and
three lobes in the grating produced slightly better performance.
We choose to fabricate the two-lobe design as shown in detail
in Section V.
Removing small oscillations cuts the grating length and, as a
consequence, broadens the spectrum. We then use a scaling of
the grating by stretching out the grating with a scale parameter
a, which is equal to the ratio of the requested bandwidth
over the actual bandwidth of the grating. We only scaled the
last output grating from the iterative LPA. Scaling the grating
during the iterations could lead to a divergence of the iterations,
according to our experiment.
The iterative LPA can also handle some specific constraints
on the gratings. For instance, we can remove all the phase shifts
in the grating complex-valued coupling coefficient. Obviously,
this constraint can greatly facilitate the fabrication. For this
purpose, three methods to constrain the negative parts of the
coupling coefficients were tested: inverting their sign, setting
them to zero, and reducing their value to zero gradually in the
iterations. In the last method, we multiplied the negative parts
of coupling coefficients by a constant, (1/2N ) < 1, where N is
the number of iterations.
The impact of removing the negative parts of the coupling
coefficient on the FBG spectrum can be analyzed as follows:
the coupling coefficient q is rewritten as a summation of q+ +
q−, which are the positive and negative parts of q, respectively.
Thus, |q−| consists of asymptotically decreasing sidelobes on
both sides of the maximum, as shown in Fig. 2(b). Forcing q−
to zero, or inverting its sign, is equivalent to adding an FBG of
|q−|, or 2|q−|, to the FBG of q+. If the FBG spectrum would
be the Fourier transform of q, then from the linearity of the
Fourier transform, we have the spectrumQ = Q+ +Q−, where
the Fourier transform Q− of q− is close to a sinusoidal function,
contributing to the sidelobes in the FBG spectrum, as shown in
Fig. 2(c). Therefore, we prefer to gradually reduce the q− to
zero in the iterations, which results in a small distortion in the
spectrum, which would then be corrected in each iteration by
the spectral constraints, as described in Section III-B.
3928 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 23, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2005
Fig. 4. Bandpass filter designed by a single LPA. (a) Apodization of the
80-mm length. (b) Spectrum.
FBG coupling-coefficient profile in the space, such that the
main lobe of the profile is in the middle of the 80-mm window.
The shift is implemented by multiplying a constant phase to the
FBG spectrum. Note that the physical length of the designed
FBG can be shorter than the 80-mm window size. We chose
the ideal square spectrum of the 0.8-nm passband and zero
dispersion as the initial solution. Fig. 4 shows the coupling
coefficient of the grating synthesized by a single LPA. The
hard cut of the grating caused high-amplitude sidelobes and
high GDR in the spectrum. The Gibbs ringing noise can be
seen in both amplitude and group-delay curves. Moreover,
the grating profile is an asymmetric sinclike function with a
large number of asymptotically decreasing oscillations along
the grating length. This profile is typical for the outputs of
the LPA. Fabrication of such an FBG with a large number of
π-phase shifts and fine-tuned apodization is difficult to realize
with precision.
In our design with the iterative LPA, we cut small oscillations
along the fiber length and removed all the phase shifts in the
grating, so that the new passband FBGs could be written with
the conventional holographic phase mask, which contains no
Fig. 5. Coupling coefficient for low-dispersion passband filter with two lobs
after 40 iterations.
phase shifts. According to the tradeoffs among the figures of
merit shown in Fig. 3, we stopped the iterations when the
isolation is below −30 dB after 40 iterations. The designed
grating is 11.7-mm long with two lobs, but contains no phase
shift, as shown in Fig. 5, which is easier to fabricate than that
directly synthesized with a single LPA shown in Fig. 4. In the
−0.5-dB passband of 0.31-nm width, the maximum dispersion
is 76 ps/nm and the rms value of the GDR is 0.2 ps. The
−30-dB bandwidth is 0.77 nm and the BWU is 45%.
The dispersion is a little higher than that of the dispersion-free
bandpass FBG designed by the LPA in [6]. This is the price paid
for removing the phase shifts in the FBG. However, this disper-
sion could be acceptable in many applications. Moreover, the
new FBG is easier and cheaper to manufacture. The fabricated
FBG can have less fabrication errors and better performance
compared with the other designs.
The designed FBG shown in Fig. 5 has been fabricated in
H2-loaded Ge-doped Corning SMF28 fiber using an Excimer
laser and a holographic uniform phase mask at the central wave-
length of 1556.5 nm. We use amplitude masks to control the
index modulation related to the designed coupling-coefficient
profile. Experimental and simulation results for the designed
grating are illustrated in Fig. 6. The fabricated FBG shows
the isolation of −25 dB, the −0.5-dB bandwidth of 0.32 nm,
and the maximum dispersion in the −0.5-dB passband below
92 ps/nm. This presents a good agreement with the designed
values. Note that the experimental FBG has a slightly higher
dispersion than the designed value. On the other hand, some of
our designs can give a slightly higher performance than that of
the fabricated FBG.
V. CONCLUSION
We have demonstrated the iterative layer-peeling algorithm
(LPA) for designing the bandpass fiber Bragg grating (FBG).
We used the inverse LPA as an analysis tool to speed up the iter-
ations. We have analyzed the impact of the applied constraint to
3930 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 23, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2005
Gilles Paul-Hus received the M.Sc. degree in physics from Laval University,
Sainte-Foy, QC, Canada, in 1993. He was an invited scholar within the context
of the German Academic Exchange Service from 1995 to 1997 at Dresden
University of Technology, Dresden, Germany.
From 1998 to 2002, he was with JDS Uniphase and Alcatel Optronics in
Ottawa/Gatineau, Canada, where he was involved in the development of fiber-
Bragg-grating (FBG) technology. Since 2002, he has been a Research Assistant
of the Centre d’Optique, Photonique, et Laser at Laval University, where he is
in charge of the nanophotonics infrastructure. In addition, he has worked with
graduate students on the development of a passive optical component.







