1 
 
中文摘要 
本研究是利用雙凝聚槽濕式相轉換法製備一無緻密皮層之基材膜。探討醋酸纖維素
(Cellulose acetate, CA)高分子鑄膜液經由直接濕式相轉換法與雙凝聚槽相轉換法所製備出
的薄膜結構之差異。因此進一步探討隨著第一槽滯留時間的增加，對 CA 基材膜之結構型
態、薄膜孔徑、純水透過及表面粗糙度之影響。此外研究中將進一步利用此無緻密皮層之
基材膜製成 Chitosan (CS)/CA 複合膜，藉以提升複合膜之滲透蒸發通量。 
 
關鍵字: 無緻密皮層之基材膜、醋酸纖維素、滲透蒸發 
 
Abstract 
In this article, a skin-free asymmetric membrane prepared via a wet phase inversion method 
with dual coagulation bath will be investigated. The effect of membrane formation methods, the 
direct wet phase inversion method and the dual coagulation bath formation, on the cellulose 
acetate(CA) membrane morphologies will be studied. In addition, the effect of retention time in 
first coagulation bath on the asymmetric CA membrane morphology, pore size, water 
permeability and surface roughness were also investigated. Moreover, a chitosan (CS)/CA 
composite membrane using the skin-free CA membrane as the support layer will be prepared. 
Hopefully, a high flux pervaporation membrane can be obtained. 
 
  
Keywords：skin-free asymmetric membrane, cellulose acetate, pervaporation  
 
Introduction 
在本研究中選用 CA 作為基材膜材料，由於 CA 高分子在 1960 年代初期由
Loeb-Sourirajan 用來製備反滲透壓膜，該薄膜包含有一薄且緻密同時具有選擇性之皮層；
在皮層的下方，則為一較厚且孔隙度大，可提供機械強度之支撐層，只要能克服成膜路徑
之限制，得到無皮層結構則有助於通量之提升；此外，CA 相對上為親水性的高分子，有利
於之後塗佈具高選擇性之 Chitosan 溶液，有利於製成具高分離效能之複合膜，因此在本章
不選用 VIPS 的方法製備薄膜，改用雙凝聚劑的方法來製備無皮層的 CA 基材膜。 
文獻上亦有學者以雙凝聚劑方式作討論，其概念相似於乾濕式法製程，主要是以第一
凝聚槽製備出所需的選擇皮層，第二槽則是製備出一多孔性的底層以提高通量。J.A.van’t 
Hof 以醇類為第一凝聚劑、水為第二凝劑的雙凝聚劑方式製備 PES 氣體分離膜，藉由不同
碳數醇類之選取以提升選擇層厚度，發現以 1-pentanol 或 glycerol 為第一槽凝聚劑時，於
25 vol% CO2/CH4 的進料氣體，可得到 α(CO2/CH4)=50 的最佳分離效能。 
Yamasak 以 PSf/DMAc 鑄膜液、雙凝聚劑 2-propanol/water 成膜，作者發現當鑄膜液在
第一凝聚劑 2-propanol 中，隨著滯留時間的增加，皮層亦會有增厚的趨勢；固定第一凝聚
劑滯留時間下，高分子鑄膜液濃度的增加，同樣也有助於皮層的增厚。 
Kim 將鑄膜液預先浸入 PEG(300)槽，再浸入水槽中雙槽製程，製備應用於氣體分離操
作之 PSf 薄膜。實驗中發現分離效能非完全正比於第一槽 PEG 滯留時間，而是存最佳滯留
時間值(tm)。作者認為當滯留時間少於 tm時，鑄膜液生成 gel 的強度仍無法抵抗第二槽溶劑
-非溶劑快速的質傳交換下生成的應力，造成薄膜的 defect 生成。當滯留時間高過 tm時，則
因鑄膜液已進入液-液相分離區，而於皮層生成孔洞。 
3 
 
  
(a) Cross-section ×5k (b) Surface ×10k 
  
(c) Cross-section ×5k (d) Surface ×10k 
Figure 1 Membrane structures obtained by casting 15 wt% CA/NMP 
solution: (a, b) single coagulation bath (water); (c, d) dual 
coagulation bath; in 1st (ethanol) coagulation 0.5 min then 2nd 
(water) 
 
(二) 溶劑與非溶劑交換情形之觀察 
成膜過程中，溶劑與非溶劑交換情形會影響薄膜結構，為了進一步瞭解薄膜成膜過程
中溶劑與非溶劑的交換情形，可直接利用光學顯微鏡來加以觀察。Figure 2 利用光學顯微鏡
(放大倍率為 100 倍)觀察一系列的凝聚劑隨著時間變化進入高分子溶液的情形。為了方便
觀察溶劑與非溶劑之交換行為，凝聚劑中加入微量紅色染色劑 ( rhodamine B )，如此在成
膜過程中，可以準確觀察到凝聚劑與高分子鑄膜液接觸之瞬間界面變化情形，也方便觀察
水或乙醇如何經由滲透方式進入鑄膜液以及孔洞形成之過程。圖中的左方區域是含有染料
的凝聚劑，右方為鑄膜液，而鑄膜液與凝聚劑的接觸介面則為圖中的黑色部分。其中 0sec
為凝聚劑一開始與各系統的鑄膜溶液接觸之狀態，而 Figure 2 (5sec) 代表凝聚劑與鑄膜液
接觸後 5 秒之結果。從 Figure 2(water)的結果可以很明顯的發現到當水為凝聚劑時，水快
速的進入高分子溶液中形成巨型孔洞，而且速度是遠快於乙醇的系統。此外，由 Figure 
2(ethanol)利用乙醇當凝聚劑時，確實會導致非溶劑進入鑄膜溶液之速率降低，且不會造成
快速相分離而形成巨型孔洞，相反地可能造成局部的高分子濃度的下降。 
Water system Ethanol system 
 
0 sec 
5 
 
0 min 0.5 min 
 
2.5 min 3 min 
 
5 min 10 min 
Figure 4 The Cross-section view of scanning electron micrographs of the Chitosan/CA 
membranes in different immersion ethanol time. Magnification : 5 k. 
 
結論 
本研究成功利用雙凝聚劑溼式相轉換法有效消除直接濕式法所產生的緻密皮層，隨著
CA 鑄膜液在第一凝聚劑(乙醇)中浸漬時間的增加，表面孔洞有變多的趨勢，且表面顆粒也
趨之明顯，因此可以提高 CA 基材膜的純水透過量，相對的表面粗糙度也隨之上升。當利
用此一無皮層 CA 基材膜製備成 Chitosan/ SF-CA 複合膜並運用在 70oC、70 wt% IPA/H2O
的滲透蒸發分離時，在維持相同的透過水濃度的情形下，可以提高約 50 %的透過通量。 
一.目的 
亞太薄膜會議自 2002 年第一次舉辦以來，已成為近年來薄膜技術相關領域最
重要的國際性會議之ㄧ，世界各地從事薄膜相關領域的研究人員都會利用參加亞太
薄膜會議的機會來發表或吸收最新的研究成果及技術。薄膜分離技術在尖端科技如
生化、材料、環保等領域所扮演之角色日益重要，不僅在國內備受矚目，在國際上
的發展也是日新月異。此次參加 AMS 5 會議，除將研究成果於會議中發表之外，
亦屆此機會觀摩國內外所有與會人員在薄膜相關領域的研究成果，藉以吸收新知、
擴展視野並提昇個人的研究品質。 
二.會議時間 
民國 98 年 7 月 12 日起至 98 年 7月 14 日 
三.會議地點 
日本、神戶 
四.主辦機構 
Aseanian Membrane Society 
The Membrane Society of Japan 
五.與會心得 
亞太薄膜會議自 2002 年第一次在日本東京舉辦以來即蓬勃發展，今年已是第 5
屆，AMS 是薄膜相關研究領域中最重要的國際性學術研討會之一，藉由會議的參
與，可使我們知道目前薄膜分離技術的發展現況與未來的發展趨勢，可作為我們未
來的研究內容與方向的參考，例如近年來許多從環保的觀點來看薄膜所扮演的角
色，探討薄膜在水處理及 CO2分離等方面的應用，都將有助於提升我們在此領域的
技術層次，並使研究成果能夠國際化。本次會議包含 5 場 plenary lecture 及 61 場 oral 
presentation，探討的主題包含 Energy applications-fuel cells, Gas separation and 
pervaporation, Membrane preparation and modification, Biochemical applications, 
1Effects of Polymerization and Pervaporation Operation Conditions 
on Dehydration Performance through Interfacial Polymerized 
Thin-Film Composite Membranes 
Shu-Hsien Huanga, Chao-Jen Hsua, Der-Jang Liawc, Chi-Lan Lib, Chien-Chieh Hua, b, Kueir-Rarn Leea,*, Juin-Yih Laia
a R&D Center for Membrane Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering, Chung Yuan University, Chung-Li 32023, 
Taiwan 
b Department of Chemical and Material Engineering, Nanya Institute of Technology, Chung-Li, 32034, Taiwan 
c Department of Chemical Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan 
krlee@cycu.edu.tw
Abstract—The disadvantage of dense polyamide membranes 
when applied in the pervaporation separation process is their 
low permeation rates. To improve the pervaporation 
performance, the polyamide thin-film composite membranes 
were prepared via the interfacial polymerization reaction 
between ethylenediamine (EDA) and trimesoyl chloride (TMC) 
on the surface of modified polyacrylonitrile (mPAN) membranes. 
These composite membranes were applied in the pervaporation 
separation of alcohol aqueous solutions. Based on the best 
pervaporation performance, the desired polymerization 
conditions for preparing the polyamide thin-film composite 
membranes (EDA-TMC/mPAN) were as follows: (1) The 
respective concentration and contact time of the EDA aqueous 
solution were 5 wt% and 30 min. (2) The respective 
concentration of and immersion time in the TMC organic 
solution were 1 wt% and 3 min. The polyamide thin-film 
composite membranes (EDA-TMC/mPAN) exhibited membrane 
durability when applied in the pervaporation separation of a 90 
wt% isopropanol aqueous solution at 70oC, indicating that the 
polyamide TFC membranes were suitable for the pervaporation 
separation process at a high operating temperature. 
I. INTRODUCTION
nterfacial polymerization is an effective technique for 
fabricating a composite membrane, which consists of a thin 
interfacially polymerized selective layer on the surface of a 
porous support membrane. This technique is based on a 
polymerization reaction that forms a polymer film at the 
interface between two immiscible phases (aqueous and 
organic phases), each of which has a highly reactive 
monomer dissolved in it. The polymer film formed at the 
interface usually grows from the aqueous phase toward the 
organic phase. This concept of polymer film growth at the 
interface has been proven by Morgan. 
Interfacially polymerized thin-film composite membranes are 
usually investigated in researches on reverse osmosis (RO) or 
nanofiltration (NF), but they have been examined in a few 
reports on pervaporation.  
In this study, to improve the permeation rate of polyamide 
membranes, polyamide thin-film composite membranes were 
prepared via the interfacial polymerization reaction between 
EDA and TMC on the surface of the mPAN membrane. 
These composite membranes were applied in the 
pervaporation process. The permeation rate across the 
interfacially polymerized polyamide thin-film composite 
membrane (EDA-TMC/mPAN) was expected to improve 
without sacrificing the selectivity when applied for the 
dehydration of alcohol aqueous solution.  
II. EXPERIMENTAL
The mPAN support membrane was fixed in a special 
frame-like device, and its surface was exposed to the 
atmosphere. An aqueous solution of EDA was poured onto 
the membrane and was allowed to get in contact with the 
membrane surface for a period of time. Then, the mPAN 
membrane soaked with the EDA aqueous solution was 
removed from the special frame-like device. This support 
membrane was immersed in a toluene solution containing 
TMC for a period of time to carry out the process of 
interfacial polymerization. Finally, to attain the desired 
stability in the structure, the resulting EDA-TMC/mPAN 
composite membrane was subjected to heat treatment for 60 
min in the oven at 70oC. SEM/EDX, AFM, XPS and DMA 
were used to observe the morphologies and/or structure of the 
polyamide thin-film composite membranes.  
III. PROCEDURE FOR PAPER SUBMISSION
Table I shows the surface elemental composition and 
elemental concentration ratio data for the polyamide thin-film 
composite membranes from XPS measurement. This result 
exhibited that more polyamide linkage groups formed in the 
polymerized layer on increasing the concentration of the EDA 
aqueous solution used for the interfacial polymerization. It is 
also indicated that the fraction of crosslinking portion of the 
polyamide layer increased with an increase in the 
concentration of the EDA aqueous solution. 
Table I Surface elemental composition, elemental concentration ratio and 
crosslinking portion data for polyamide thin-film composite membranes from 
XPS measurement. 
Membranes C (%) O (%) N (%) O/C N/C N/O 
Crosslinki
ng portion 
(m) (%) 
EDA-TMC/mP
AN prepared 
with 5 wt% 
EDAa)
74.28 15.70 10.03 0.21 0.14 0.64 34 
EDA-TMC/mP
AN prepared 
with 10 wt% 
EDAa)
68.39 16.54 15.06 0.24 0.22 0.91 86 
a) contact time of EDA aqueous solution: 30 min, concentration 
of/immersion time in TMC organic solution: 1 wt%/3 min 
I
586
AMS 5 in Kobe, July 12-14, 2009
P5-43
