 I 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
計劃編號：NSC94 - 2213 - E – 194 - 027 
執行期限：94年 8月 01日至 95年 7月 31日 
主持人：  張盛富 教授  國立中正大學電機所 
共同主持人 :   張盛富 教授    國立中正大學電機所 
 
中英文摘要 
摘要： 
本計畫研究電磁咽喉微振動感測技術之射頻收發模組，其係以雷達技術感測人體咽喉部
位中聲帶肌肉微量振動（大約幾 mm的位移），進而獲取另一項人體生理密碼。我們將以 ISM
微波頻率(915/2450/5800MHz)之電磁波為感測媒介，以直接降頻 IQ 混頻架構搭配 clutter 
cancellation 電路實現收發模組。當人體發聲器官的生理微量振動，使得電磁載波發生相位
調變，經由微波同步解調方式而獲取波形。其與習知的聲紋辨識機制並不相同。研究的進
程第一年以混成元件研製收發模組，第二年進行差動式 IQ 零中頻收發晶片和 clutter 
cancellation晶片之設計與下線，並且進行與子計畫(一)、(三)的整合，第三年以整個雛型系
統的整合和測試為主。這項技術可用於無線心跳和呼吸監測器、掩埋於土石流和地震瓦礫
中的生命跡象探測儀、隱形測謊機，和行動電話話音品質增強器和之生理身份辨識。 
 
 
 
Abstract: 
  This project is to design an RF transceiver for Electromagnetic Glottal Micro-Motion 
Detection, where the periodical millimeter movement of glottal folders is accurately measured 
based on the radar principle such that a new biological characteristic of human being can be 
obtained. We will employ the direct-conversion quadrature transceiver architecture, incorporated 
with a clutter cancellation circuit, such that an highly-sensitive phase demodulation receiver can 
intelligently demodulates the received EM wave, when the ISM-band EM wave is scattered from 
the vibrated glottis. The potential applications include speech identification, speech quality 
enhancement, life-signal detection under earthquake rubble and behind barrier, stealthy lie 
detection. The project is spanned over a three-year period. In the first year, a hybrid-MIC RF 
transceiver will be built with off-shelf RF components and microprocessor. The CMOS 
transceiver RFICs and the clutter cancellation circuit will be designed and tape-out in the second 
year. The initial integration with the antenna (from Subproject 1) and the highly-stabilized LO 
(from Subproject 3) will be conducted. Based on the integration test results, the transceiver will 
be improved. The further integration and complete test of antenna, RF transceiver, and 
phase-locked LO signal will be carried on in the third year. 
 
 
 
關鍵詞：電磁咽喉感測、coherent demodulation、clutter cancellation 
 2 
4. 研究方法 
利用電磁波來偵測埋藏於地底下生命信號之理論主要來自於雷達原理。一般地震發生
後人體可能被埋在碎石底下，當人體仍有生命跡象但是卻失去意識時，此電磁生命信號檢
測系統便能朝懷疑有人存在的碎石堆中傳送一個連續的電磁波，採用合適的傳送頻率和功
率，電磁波便能穿透碎石而到達目標物所在。在電磁波穿透碎石期間，電磁波會撞擊各式
各樣的物體，包括草層，土壤層，水下層和人體，此時部份電磁能量便會被反射回來。當
撞擊物為靜止不動時，反射信號相位與頻率便不會產生調變，相反的，如果撞擊物有一定
週期變動，例如心跳和呼吸，被反射信號便會根據此生命訊息而產生相位調變。若能將此
調變信號有效地偵測出來，我們便能準確的判別出被埋藏在碎石堆底下人體的位置。 
（A）生命訊號偵測 
當我們忽略振幅擾動時，發射信號可表示為 
( )( ) cos 2 ( )TT t A ft tp f= +                                               (1) 
其中 TA 為振幅大小，f為操作頻率，t為時間變化，而 ( )tf 則為此發射載波之相位雜訊。
假設目標物在距離 0d 的位置，且具有週期性的微小振動 0( )x t d<< ，並假設此微小振動之週期
遠大於電磁波的來回延遲時間，即 0 /T d c>> ，在此假設前提下，接收信號可表示為 
024 ( )( ) cos 2 ( )R
p
dx tR t A ft t
v
p
p q f
l
é ù
» + + + -ê ú
ê úë û
                               (2) 
其中 RA 為接收電磁波的振幅大小，其主要取決於 TA 、天線增益與傳輸路徑的損耗。而
vp為電磁波的平均傳播速度， /c fl = 為此電磁之波長，q則為由距離 0d 及人體反射參數所決
定的固定相位移。 
在本開發系統中，我們只採用一組電磁波信號，同時作為傳輸端信號與接收端的本地
振盪參考訊號，這樣的架構能確保傳送與接收訊號的相位雜訊彼此有相位相關，因此，解
調所得到的基頻訊號可被描述為 
024 ( )( ) cos ' ( ) ( )B
p
dx tB t A t t
v
p
q f f
l
é ù
= + + - -ê ú
ê úë û
                                  (3) 
BA 為振幅大小，取決於 RA 和解調與濾波後的擺幅反應， 'q 為常數相位項，由q與接收
電路的相位變化所組成。當 'q 變為 2/p 的奇數倍時，基頻輸出信號可以簡化為 
024 ( )( ) ( ) ( )B
p
dx tB t A t t
v
p
f f
l
é ù
» + - -ê ú
ê úë û
.                                       (4) 
從 Eq. (4)中可得到，其基頻輸出大小與 ( )x t 及殘餘相位雜訊 02( ) ( )dt t
c
f f- - 的總和成比
例，因此我們可得到最佳解調靈敏度。而當 'q 為p的整數倍時，基頻輸出信號可近似為 
2
021 4 ( )( ) 1 ( ) ( )
2B p
dx tB t A t t
v
p
f f
l
ì üé ùï ï» - + - -ê úí ý
ê úï ïë ûî þ
                                (5) 
在這個狀態下，基頻輸出訊號不再與位移 ( )x t 呈線性比例，因而導致解調靈敏度之降低。 
 
（B）降低殘餘相位雜訊 
由方程式(3)可知，所解調的生命訊號會被殘餘的相位雜訊所干擾，由於胸腔和心跳振
動很小，導致接收信號之相位調變通常只有幾度而已，易受到殘餘相位雜訊的干擾，因此
殘餘相位雜訊的抑制是本系統之關鍵技術。Range-correlation的特性[6]說明了如何有效抑制
殘餘相位雜訊 0
2
( ) ( )
dt t
c
f f- - 。 
 4 
(6)基頻放大電路：將解調之基頻訊號放大並濾除其它不必要之信號成分。 
(7)頻率合成器：提供 915 MHz穩定輸出的參考電磁波源，經由功率分配器將功率分配
至發射天線與混頻器，在發射天線端當發射訊號源，在混頻器端提供本地訊號。 
 
圖 1 電路實體圖 
 
5. 結果與討論 
本次測試於實驗室中進行量測，待測人體直接坐在本檢測系統的前方50公分處而未加
屏蔽如圖2所示。 
 
圖2 電磁微振動檢測系統架設圖 
 
經由本檢測系統偵測人體所反射之生命訊號後，圖3為人體呼吸與心跳訊號的量測結
果，上方圖形為直接由數位示波器取得的波形，可明顯看出包含高頻雜訊干擾。中間圖形
為利用Matlab將此訊號以數位低通濾波器處理後所得的波形。此外，下方的圖形為訊號經
由快速傅利葉轉換得到的頻譜，最大的峰值大約在0.3 Hz處，應該為人體之呼吸頻率，而第
二個峰值在0.6 Hz處，此信號應該為呼吸訊號的諧波，第三個峰值在1.25 Hz處則為人體心
跳頻率。 
再來進行另一項實驗，在量測期間摒住呼吸，藉由停止胸腔的擺動，減少呼吸訊號對
心跳訊號所產升的干擾，進而更準確偵測到人體心跳頻率，量測結果如圖 4 所示，1.3 Hz
的訊號代表心跳，並且在量測期間持續摒住呼吸的情形下，確實除了心跳訊號以外沒有紀
錄到其它明顯的峰值。 
 
 6 
參考文獻 
[1] D. W. Griffin, “MW interferometers for biological studies”, Microwave Journal, May 1978, 
69-72 (1978). 
[2] K. H. Chan and J. C. Lin, “An algorithm for extracting cardiopulmonary rates from chest 
movements”, IEEE/Seventh Annual Conference of the Engineering in Medicine and Biology 
Society, 466-469, 1985. 
[3] J. C. Lin, “Microwave sensing of physiological movement and volume change: a review,” 
Bioelectromganetics, vol. 13, pp. 557-565, 1992. 
[4] H.-R. Chuang, Y.F. Chen, K.-M. Chen “Automatic clutter-canceler for microwave 
life-detection systems” IEEE Trans. Instrumentation and Measurement, vol. 40, pp. 747-750, 
Aug. 1991. 
[5] Kun-Mu Chen, Yong Huang, Jianping Zhang, A. Norman, “Microwave life-detection 
systems for searching human subjects under earthquake rubble or behind barrier,” IEEE 
Trans. Biomedical Engineering, vol. 47, pp. 105-114, Jan. 2000. 
[6] L.C. Ng, G.C. Burnett, J.F. Holzrichter, T.J. Gable, “Denoising of human speech using 
combined acoustic and EM sensor signal processing,” Proceedings. 2000 IEEE 
International Conference on , vol. 1 , 5-9 June 2000 pp. 229-232. 
[7] J. F. Holzrichter, G. C. Burnett, L. C. Ng, and W. A. Lea, “Speech articulator measurements 
using low power EM-wave sensors”, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. Vol. 103, no. 1, pp. 622-627 ,1998. 
[8] L.C. Ng, G.C. Burnett, J.F. Holzrichter, T.J. Gable, “Denoising of human speech using 
combined acoustic and EM sensor signal processing,” Proceedings. 2000 IEEE 
International Conference on , vol. 1 , 5-9 June 2000 pp. 229-232. 
[9] J. F. Holzrichter, G. C. Burnett, L. C. Ng, “Speech articulator and user gesture measurement 
using micropower, interferometric EM-sensors,” IEEE Instrumentation and Measurement 
Technology Conference., May 21-23, 2001. 
[10] Alphi Corp.,http://www.alphi.com. 
[11] J. F. Holzrichter, “New ideas for speech recongnition and related technologies,” Lawrence 
Livermore National Labortory, UCRL-UR-120310, 1995. http://www.ntis.gov. 
[12] E. Staderini, “UWB radars in medicine,” IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems 
Magazine, ,Vol. 17 , No. 1 , pp. 13-18, Jan. 2002. 
[13] A.D. Droitcour, O. Boric-Lubecke, V.M. Lubecke, J. Lin, G.T.A. Kovacs, “Range correlation 
and I/Q performance benefits in single-chip silicon Doppler radars for noncontact 
cardiopulmonary monitoring,”IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Techniques, vol. 52, pp. 
838-848, March 2004. 
 
 8 
附錄 
本研究成果已發表至「1906梅山地震百週年紀念研討會」，全文如下。 
 
An Electromagnetic Vital Signal Detection Technique for Human 
Subjects Buried Under Earthquake Rubbles 
 
Jian-San Lin, Sheng-Fuh Chang, Chia-Chan Chang,  
Chien-Kai Hsu and Chia-Yin Hung 
(林建三、張盛富、張嘉展、徐健凱、洪嘉盈)  
National Chung Cheng University, Department of Electrical Engineering, Department of Communcation Engineering, 
Center for Telecommunication Research  
168 University Rd., San-Hsing Va., Ming-Hsiung, Chia-Yi 621, TAIWAN, R.O.C. 
Emial: ieesfc@ccu.edu.tw 
TEL: 886-5-2720411 ext 33218 
 
ABSTRACT 
A preliminary progress of developing an electromagnetic vital signal detection system for 
detecting the human subject buried under earthquake rubbles is reported. This system is 
essentially utilized the radar principle to the near-distance hidden vital signal detection, where the 
more complicated environment and climate condition are encountered. Under such severe 
situation, the range correlation property of the coherent demodulation radar transceiver is 
demonstrated to be able to effectively suppress the residual phase noise imposed on the 
phase-modulated backscattered electromagnetic wave from the buried human. Therefore, the 
weak phase-modulated backscattered electromagnetic signal can be extracted from the noise and 
interferences. The designed electromagnetic vital signal detection system was fabricated on the 
FR4 substrate, and the circuit size is 8´12´1 cm3. The preliminary measurement under the 
controlled laboratory environment has been conducted. Peaked spectral signals at 0.3 Hz and 1.25 
Hz are recorded, respectively, which are corresponding to the breath and the heartbeat motions. 
These results demonstrate the successful operation of detecting the human breath and heartbeat 
signals. Further works, including the cluster cancellation and detection distance increment and 
enhanced circuit realization, are under development.  
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
For the after-earthquake rescue, it is time-effective to identify the correct spots, where 
human subjects are buried under earthquake rubbles. The currently available methods [1]-[2] 
include the aids of dogs, infra-red instrument, aural detector or other optical devices. However, 
these existing methods are less effective if the victims are too weak to have the ability to respond 
to the rescuers, or the covering rubbles are too thick for the detection signal to reach. On the other, 
the detection systems using electromagnetic wave have provided promising performance [3]-[5]. 
In this report, a vital signal detection system, utilizing the radar principle, is presented. The 
theory is described first and the preliminary measurement results are discussed. Finally, a 
conclusion and future works are summarized. 
 
II. THOERY  
The theory of using electromagnetic wave to detect the vital signal from the buried human 
subject underground is developed from the radar principle. As shown in Fig.1, a generic scenario 
of an after-earthquake illustrates a person could be buried under rubbles, while he/she still has 
vital syndrome but might have lose conscious. The electromagnetic vital signal detection system 
 10
small displacement, typically less than several centimeters, of the chest and heartbeat motion, the 
modulated signal is within 1-phase degree and is susceptible to the phase noise interference. The 
phase noise suppression ability is therefore the crucial technique of this system. This is achieved 
by employing the same reference electromagnetic source as described in Section IIA. The 
range-correlation property [6] shows how the residual phase noise )
2
()( 0
c
dtt --ff  is reduced.  
Let the residual phase noise be 2( ) ( ) ( )o
p
dt t t
v
f f fD = - - . Its auto-correlation function can 
be expressed as 
{ }( )
( ) ( ) ( )
( ) ( ) ( )
2 2( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
2 22 ( ) ( ) ( )
t
o o
p p
o o
t t t
p p
R E t t
d dE t t t t
v v
d dR R R
v v
f
f f f
t f t f
f t f t f f
t t t
D º D + D
ì üé ù é ùï ï= + - - + - -ê ú ê úí ý
ê ú ê úï ïë û ë ûî þ
= - + - -
 
where { }( ) ( ) ( ) ( )tR E t tf t f t f= + is the auto-correlation function of the phase noise of the 
reference electromagnetic-wave source. Taking the Fourier transform of )(tR fD , we obtain the 
baseband noise spectral density as 
{ } 2( ) 2( ) 4 ( )sin ot
p
d fS f R S f
vf f f
p
D D
æ ö
= Á = ç ÷ç ÷
è ø
 (6) 
where )( fSf  is the spectral density of the reference electromagnetic-wave source. If the 
human subject is at a distance of several meters, and the vital signal movement of breathing or 
heartbeat is within 2 beats per second, the small-angle approximation is valid and the baseband 
noise spectrum becomes 
2 2 2
2
16( ) ( ) o
p
d fS f S f
vf f
p
D
é ù
» ê ú
ê úë û
 (7) 
In Eq. (7), the square-bracket term denotes the suppression factor according to the range 
correlation property. For example, do= 3m, the residual phase noise will be suppressed by 138 dB 
at 1 Hz offset from the carrier frequency. This significant suppression factor makes this system 
promising as a vital-signal detection system for the buried human subject. 
 
III. CIRCUIT IMPLEMENTATION  
The block diagram of the developed vital signal detection system is shown in Fig. 2. It 
consists of a frequency synthesizer, a transmitter and a receiver. The frequency synthesizer is 
used as an electromagnetic wave reference source. In this case, it operates at 915 MHz. The 
transmitter splits a majority power to the transmitted antenna and radiates toward the target. The 
receiver is composed of a controllable phase shifter, a demodulation down-mixer, a receiving 
antenna , a low-noise amplifier, a baseband amplifier and filtering circuit. The controllable phase 
shifter [7]-[8] is to optimize the reference phase to have the optimal-sensitivity operation 
condition as shown in (4). The reflected electromagnetic wave from the human subject is 
received by the receiving antenna and then amplified by a low-noise amplifier to raise its power 
level. The demodulation down-mixer beats the reference and received electromagnetic waves to 
drive the followed baseband signal process module. The low-frequency amplifier and filtering 
circuit is used to improve the signal to noise ratio.  
The circuit photograph of the vital signal detection system is shown in Fig. 3. It was 
fabricated on the FR4 substrate. The size of the prototype is 8´12´1 cm3. 
 12
REFERENCES 
[1] http://www3.nstm.gov.tw/review/sherlock/main_4.htm 
[2] http://tea513.myweb.hinet.net/44.htm 
[3]H.-R. Chuang, Y.F. Chen, K.-M. Chen “Automatic clutter-canceller for microwave 
life-detection systems” IEEE Trans. Instrumentation and Measurement, vol. 40, pp. 747-750, 
Aug. 1991  
[4]Kun-Mu Chen, Yong Huang, Jianping Zhang, A. Norman, “Microwave life-detection systems 
for searching human subjects under earthquake rubble or behind barrier,” IEEE Trans. 
Biomedical Engineering, vol. 47, pp. 105-114, Jan. 2000. 
[5]A.D. Droitcour, O. Boric-Lubecke, V.M. Lubecke, J. Lin, G.T.A. Kovacs, “Range correlation 
and I/Q performance benefits in single-chip silicon Doppler radars for noncontact 
cardiopulmonary monitoring,”IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Techniques, vol. 52, pp. 
838-848, March 2004. 
 
[6]M. C. Budge, Jr. and M. P. Burt, “Range correlation effects on phase and amplitude noise, “ in 
Proc. IEEE Southeastcon, Charlotte, NC, 1993, p.5. 
[7]J. I. Upsur and B. D. Geller, “Low loss 360 X-band phase shifter,” inIEEE Int. Microwave 
Symp., June 1990, pp. 487–490. 
[8]F. Ellinger, R. Vogt, and W. Bächtold, “Compact reflective type phase shifter MMIC for 
C-band using a lumped element coupler,” IEEE Trans.Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 49, pp. 
913–917, May 2001. 
 
 14
 
 
Fig 3. Circuit photograph of the electromagnetic vital signal detection system 
 
 
