訊；以下舉例加以說明之：
關於專利資料庫查詢，如果專利資料庫的伺服器知道，線上使用者查詢的
意欲為何，這將導致許多的問題。我們想像若有一個科學家發現了一個重要的
公式，例如「H2 + O2 => H2O」，很自然的他想去申請專利(這發現可用於沙漠中
造水等許多有市場價值的應用)。但首先他需要去線上專利資料庫查詢，是否已
存在這樣的專利或類似的專利。但此時該專利資料庫伺服器管理者，已於該科
學家查詢時得知：該科學家有將「H2 + O2 => H2O」申請為專利的意圖，這立刻
給該伺服器管理者有以下想法：(i)知道該科學家正在作這方面的研究 (ii) 「H2 +
O2 => H2O」可能是新的發明，為什麼不能比該科學家早一步申請該專利。以上
兩項想法都是非常有價值的情報，該伺服器管理者，大可待價而沽、大發利市
了。由此例我們知道，使用者查詢的私密性應當被保護，以免產生以上不合理
的現象。
但使資料庫伺服器不知道使用者所查詢的為何筆資料，這被視為不可能作
到，直到 1995 年 Benny Chor, Oded Goldreich, Eyal Kushilevitz, Madhu Sudan 於[1]
提出私密的資訊擷取(Private Information Retrieval : PIR)問題的定義及一些解決
的機制。PIR 自提出後受到相當的重視，後續的研究也不斷出爐。一種衡量、評
估 PIR 機制的方法為萃取一個位元所需的傳輸複雜度 (communication
complexity)，Chor 等人已於[2]中證明：單伺服器 PIR 機制其所需的傳輸複雜度
為 O(n)：相當於 download 整個資料庫。雖然 Chor 等人藉著 k 伺服器的 PIR 機
制(k≧2)來降低 communication complexity，從原來只有一個伺服器要達到 PIR 的
O(n) (亦即 download 整個 database)，降至 O(n1/k) 。但當 database 的 size 非常大
時這仍有不小的 overhead；因此許多關於 PIR 的後續研究上[3-6]，都著眼於如何
降低其 communication complexity。Ambainis 於[3]證明k伺服器的PIR機制(k≧2)
其 communication complexity 降為 O(n1/(2k-1))；Beimel 等人更於[4]證明打破
communication complexity 為 O(n1/(2k-1))的障礙。
從以上學者們的努力可知，complexity 的降低是非常重要的研究方向，因
於[9]中針對相同的問題提出具容錯能力的(fault tolerance) PIR 協定，並在實際的
資料庫中作一些簡單的實驗。
根據以上相關的研究顯示，PIR 的研究確實對電子服務(e-service)環境中使
用隱私權的保護有相當關鍵的突破。但從以上研究的分析我們可知，如何降低
其 complexity 仍是重要的研究方向；另外從我們的研究分析中發現多伺服器的
PIR 機制其伺服器管理的 overhead 極大，且容易有安全上的漏洞，這會使得 PIR
機制在實務上變得較不可行。因此本人在近兩年關於 PIR 的研究中提出單伺服
器且計算上安全的機制(CPIR scheme)，其傳輸複雜度(communication complexity)
為 O(1)，與其他 PIR 機制的比較如下頁表 (相關結果已整理投稿國際期刊，機
制內容詳見附錄)。
但其伺服器的計算量在所有質數事先計算好的情形下的時間複雜度(time
complexity) 為 expc * O(n)，其中 expc 為計算一個指數運算所需時間(當表示數
目的位元長度固定時，此時間可視為常數)。Beimel 等人於[10]闡明在標準的 PIR
Comparisons
Scheme
Secure level Use one / k
servers(k≥2)
Communication
Complexity
practical
feasibility
PIR scheme in
[1, 2]
Theoretical
Security
k servers O(n1/(2k-1)) low
Robust PIR
scheme in [8]
Theoretical
Security
L servers
(L > k)
L * Wk,L * O(n
1/(2k-1)) low
CPIR scheme in
[6]
Computational
Security
one server O(log n) middle
Our one server
CPIR scheme
Computational
Security
one server O(1) high
預定收集私密的資訊擷取(Private Information Retrieval : PIR)及密碼學相關
於此研究專題計畫的論文及資訊。
(2) 相關文獻的深度研究：
將收集到的相關文獻作深度研究，消化整理、融會貫通，以構思在電子服務
環境中具可行性的新安全協定(Protocol)。其研究進程概略可分為以下細步：
研究多伺服器理論上安全的 PIR 相關論文，以掌握 PIR 保護使用者隱私權其
理論上的精華之處。研究論文[10]以掌握多伺服器 PIR 機制如何藉前處理降
低伺服器其計算的時間複雜度。研究我們所提出的單伺服器計算上安全的
PIR 協定(OS-CPIR)，如何改善伺服器其計算的時間複雜度。
(3) 依據前項步驟的深入研究，提出能保護使用者隱私權且伺服器計算量適中的
新安全協定。
(4) 證明此安全協定(Protocol)的安全性(Provable Secure)
研究 PIR 及 CPIR 相關論文的理論證明，以吸收其精華；並參考其它可供證
明協定(Protocol)安全性的理論基礎；多下一些研究功夫來證明此安全協定
(Protocol)的安全性，以確保其實際應用上的安全性。因為這部份的研究工
作需要較強的數學背景，但本人並非數學科系畢業，所以在此專案計畫中
我安排一個赴大陸的一個行程，目的地是南京理工大學(理學院)，與其應用
數學系的學者作交流，藉交流合作來補強此部份研究工作所需的數學背景。
五、結果與討論（含結論與建議）
相關的研究，已整理投稿於國際知名的SCI期刊(Journal)或研討會
(Conference)。
六、參考文獻
[1] B. Chor, O. Goldreich, E. Kushilevitz, M. Sudan, “Private Information
Retrieval,”In Proc. of the 36 th IEEE Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science (FOCS)36th , pp. 41-50, 1995.
[1]C.H. Chen, “One-Server Private Information Retrieval Scheme with Mutual
Authentication Capability”, Journal of Chienkuo Technology University, vol.
26, no. 2, pp. 119-132,2007.
[2] C.H. Chen, G. Horng, C.H. Hsu,“Protecting the Privacy of Users in Retrieving
Valuable Information by a PIR scheme with mutual authentication by RSA
Signature Algorithm”, IEEE 2007 International Conference on Innovative
Computing, Information and Control (ICICIC 2007), Sep. 5 ~ Sep.7,
Kumamoto, Japan, session A17-03, 2007.
已投稿國際知名期刊正在審查中的有：
[3] C.H. Chen, G. Horng, C.H. Hsu,“A Novel Private Information Retrieval (PIR)
Scheme with Fair Privacy in the User Side and the Server Side”
 
 
三、心得與檢討： 
1. 研究交流是一種長期的關係，這次研究交流的促成，主要是因為我與南京理工大竇本
年老師一同在德國同一個研究團隊作交流(一年)，且有密切的討論互動。經過這次到
南京交流後，雙方均有繼續保持交流及合作關係的強烈意願。 
2. 研究交流必須產生實質的互惠，合作交流的關係才能持久。經過在德國交流後期的醞
釀，及這次的交流我們有ㄧ篇小貢獻的論文要投南京理工大的學報(EI)：請參考報告 
p62 ~ p66，相信好的開始是成功的ㄧ半。另外藉著這次交流的密切互動，我們對於雙
方合作的模式及如何彼此截長補短均產生了一定的默契和共識。 
3. 研究交流對雙方研究水準的提升及研究成果產出均大有益處；但這很需要國家給予支
持、補助：經過這次交流後，我有一個新點子，可以寫ㄧ篇論文投 SCI 期刊；這要感
謝國科會所給予的補助。 
 
以下是在南京理工大學交流的照片： 
 
 
     在南京理工大理學院研討教室交流後留影(另一位研究生為我們拍照) 
左起 金曉燦老師、許春根老師，我，竇本年老師，研究生楊同學 
  其中許春根老師(博士副教授)為該系副主任，亦為該系密碼學研究小組主持人 
 
 
 
The Security on Sensor Networks
Date: 2007.07.18
Reporter: Chun-Hua Chen
What are sensor networks ?
z The idea of sensor networks has been made 
popular by UC Berkeley who also developed 
a series of sensor nodes called mica nodes
z A sensor network is a set of small 
autonomous systems, called sensor nodes 
which cooperate to solve at least one 
common application. Their tasks include 
some kind of perception of physical 
parameters.
The development of sensor networks
z The death of the Personal Computer is being 
predicted by some analysts for many years, 
even though the market is vital. And at the 
same time spread to smaller and more 
ubiquitous devices. 
z The figure in the next page classifies 
computer equipment with regard to expense 
on the vertical axis and connectivity on the 
horizontal axis.
The development of sensor networks
z The IBM S/360 is found in the lower left 
which is among the first mainframe 
computers which where sold in larger scales. 
Connectivity was not an issue back in the 
60ies. Performing simple calculations and bit 
operations within at most 64kB was enough.
z In 70ies and early 80ies, First Personal 
Computers were developed amongst others 
by Apple?Texas Instruments and IBM.
The development of sensor networks
z Connected cars could inform oneanother 
about accidents and traffic jams, weather- or 
road conditions, newly built or closed roads 
etc. autonomously.
z Considering the strong correlation between 
an decreasing price/performance ratio and 
the improved connectivity described above 
the idea of sensor networks seems no more 
far-fetched.
Applications for Sensor Networks
z Sensor nodes could at the same time 
monitor more than only temperature. They 
could also detect movements within rooms 
and report this information to the alarm 
equipment in case of absent occupants.
z Military usage …..

Energy Consumption Problem
The energy consumption is the important 
consideration in the designing of the application 
in the sensor networks
The security on sensor networks
z A principle important to mention in this 
context which most cryptographers agree on 
is that security has to be enforced by the 
robustness of the algorithms and not by 
trying to keep it secret
z Constraints and different choices
– symmetric and asymmetric encryption 
approaches
The security on sensor networks
z Another solution to the problems of 
symmetric encryption schemes is   
asymmetric encryption (e.g. RSA) which 
utilized are pair of keys. The public part of 
the key is made available to everyone. The 
private part will always remain in the owner 
of the key-pair
The security on sensor networks
z RSA scheme
Conclusion
z A new topic where information security 
and cryptograph research can be applied
z Trade off between symmetric encryption 
and asymmetric encryption according to 
the application 
-1-
Outline
♦ Introduction
♦Preliminaries
♦Review and the cryptanalysis of the 
previous protocols
♦The proposed protocol 
♦Comparison with other protocols 
♦Conclusion
-3-
Introduction
♦ In 2003, Boyd and Nieto proposed a round-optimal 
(one round) contributory conference key agreement 
protocol (PKC 2003), which had been proven 
secure by using Bellare and Rogaway's model 
(random orcale model)
♦ Recently(16th Information Security Conference, 
Taiwan, June 2006), Lee and Hwang claimed that it 
is still insecure against the isolation and 
impersonation attack and thus, proposed an 
improved approach to overcome the weaknesses
-5-
Introduction
♦The new protocol also efficiently provides 
non-repudiation property for conference key 
generation which previous protocols did not 
provide
♦Furthermore, we also show that the new 
protocol is provably secure against the attacks 
proposed by the two kinds of malicious 
participants above under the assumption of 
random oracle model.
-7-
Preliminaries
♦Notation 1
-9-
Preliminaries
♦Notation 2
-11-
Preliminaries
♦Assume that each participant knows the set U 
and transmits the messages each other by a 
broadcast network. Under this situation, the 
Boyd and Nieto’s protocol was proved to be 
secure against an active attack from an 
outsider attacker. However, it is still 
threatened by two potential insider attackers 
who are defined in the next page
-13-
Review the protocol proposed 
by Boyd and Nieto
-15-
The cryptanalysis the protocol proposed 
by Boyd and Nieto
♦ Lee and Hwang’s impersonation attack
– By replaying the message sent by the initiator 
before, a malicious responder U1* can 
impersonate the initiator to cheat honest 
participants into negotiating a conference key 
-17-
The cryptanalysis the protocol proposed 
by Boyd and Nieto
♦ Lee and Hwang’s improved version
– In order to overcome the weaknesses, they 
proposed an improved approach by only changing 
the transmitted message in Step 1 as follows:
(where t1 is a timestamp)
-19-
The cryptanalysis the protocol proposed 
by Boyd and Nieto
♦ Our  non-repudiation  attack
– Participants decrypt the encrypted messages transmitted 
on the channel with common conference key during the 
conference holding. Since any participant can forge 
contributory message , responder  can deny that he has 
ever owned the conference key and attended the 
conference even. If the protocol is required to provide the 
property of non-repudiation to prove that who attends the 
conference, a signed document by all participants is 
necessary
-21-
The proposed protocol 
♦ In Step 1, the initiator works as follows:
-23-
The proposed protocol 
♦ In Step 3 
-25-
The proposed protocol 
♦ In Step 3  (cont)
-27-
Comparison with other protocols
An Efficient ID-based Signature Scheme from Pairing  
 
Dou Bennian  Xu Chungen  Jin Xiaocan  
 
Abstract: we propose an efficient ID-based signature from pairing, which is more efficient but 
also secure than existed ID-based signature scheme.  
Keyword:  ID-based cryptography   signature    Bilinear Pairings 
 
 
1 Introduction 
 
Bilinear parings, which we will explain in section 2, were first used in cryptography for attacking 
elliptic curve system [1,2]. However, in 2000, Joux [3] showed that parings can be used positively 
for cryptography; he constructed one round Diffe-Hellmann key exchange for three party by using 
Weil pairing. Joux’s discovery spurred an extensive research into new applications based on 
pairings. Undoubtedly, the nicest using of pairings is in 2001, Boneh and Franklin [4] firstly 
proposed a fully functional identity-based (we use ID-based in the following section) encryption 
scheme. Since then, a large number of articles on pairing-based cryptography or ID-based 
cryptography have appeared. An excellent reference is Barreto’s ‘ Pairing-Based Crypto Lounge’ 
[5]. 
Hess [6] proposed an ID-based signature scheme in 2002, which we will give somewhat 
detail description in section 3. In this paper we construct a new but more efficient than Hess’s 
scheme. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In section 2, we give some preliminaries about 
pairings and the ID-based encryption scheme of [4]. In section 3, we introduce Hess’s scheme. In 
section 4, we propose our scheme, compare the efficiency of our scheme with Hess’s, and we also 
analyze the security of our scheme. We end with conclusions.  
 
2 Preliminaries  
 
2.1 pairing  
Let be two groups of the same prime order q . We view  as an additive group and 
as a multiplicative group. Let
2,1 GG 1G
2G P be the generator of . Assume that (discrete 
logarithm problem) and CDHP (computational Diffe-Hellmann problem) both in 
are intractable. A mapping
1G DLP
2,1 GG 211: GGGe →×  satisfying the following properties 
is called a cryptographic bilinear map (pairing). 
1. Bilinear: .for allabPPebPaPe ),(),( = qZba ∈, . 
in 2002,Hess proposed a ID-based signature from pairing[6]. We now briefly give the description 
of his scheme. His scheme consists of four algorithms which as follows. 
Setup: (same as ID-based encryption cited above) chooses , and set , the 
master key is , the global public key is . Let  and 
∗∈ qZs sPPpup =
s pupP 11 }1,0{ GH →∗
∗∗ →× qZGH 2}1,0{:  be cryptographic hash functions. 
Extract: for a given public identity ,compute ∗∈ }1,0{ID 11 )( GIDHQID ∈= , set the 
private key is IDID sQd = . 
Sign: given a private key  and message , the signer chooses an 
arbitrary , and a random k , computes 
IDd
∗∈ }1,0{m
11 GP ∈ ∗∈ qZ
1. , kPPer ),( 1=
2. , ),( rmHv =
3. .  1kPvdu ID +=
the signature is then the pair . ∗×∈ qZGvu 1),(
Verify: given , message m, signature the verifier computes IDQ ),( vu
1. , vpupID PQePuer ),(),( −=
2. accept the signature if and only if ),( rmHv = . 
Security: the security of Hess’s scheme bases on the hardness of Weak-DH problem[7]. 
 
4 Our scheme 
 
4.1 Our scheme 
In this section we will construct a new ID-based signature, which is more efficient 
than Hess’s scheme. Our scheme consists of also four algorithms, which as follows.   
Setup: (same as ID-based encryption cited above) choose , and set , master 
key is , the global public key is . Let  and  be 
cryptographic hash functions. 
∗∈ qZs sPPpup =
s pupP GH →∗}1,0{1 ∗∗ → qZH }1,0{:
Extract: for a given public identity  ,compute  ∗∈ }1,0{ID 11 )( GIDHQID ∈= , set 
Problem 2. Given , bP, to compute  such that . cP aP ),(),( bPaPePcPe =
from theorem 1 and theorem 2 we know these two attacks are impossible, when we 
assumed that CDHP is hard in . 1G
4.3 Efficiency comparison  
In the step of signing, our scheme need one hash function evaluation, one addition 
in ,two scalar multiplication in , whereas Hess’s scheme need one hash function 
evaluation, one pairing evaluation, one exponentiation in , two scalar 
multiplication in , one addition in . In this step our scheme is much more 
efficient than Hess’s scheme, for pairing evaluation and exponential are the most 
consume of time. 
∗
qZ 1G
2G
1G 1G
In the step of verifying, our scheme need one hash function evaluation, one scalar 
multiplication in , one addition in , two pairing evaluation, whereas Hess’s 
scheme need two pairing evaluation, one exponentiation in . in this step the two 
schemes are almost similar efficient. 
1G 1G
2G
Length of signature, we know there is so called Pointcompress in elliptic curve system, 
which was used by Boneh,Lynn,Shacham[7] to get short signature. We can also use 
this technique, and then the length of signature in our scheme is the same with Hess’s 
scheme. 
 
5 Conclusion 
In this paper we propose an ID-based signature from pairing, which is more efficient 
than the existed scheme. Our scheme and Hess’s scheme both assume the KGC is 
honest, for, KGC can forge signatures of all users. 
 
References 
[1] A. Menezes, T. Okamoto, and S.Vanstone. Reducing Elliptic Curve Logarithms to 
Logarithms in A Finite Field. IEEE Transaction on Information Theory, 39: 
1639-1646, 1993 
[2] G. Frey, M. Mueller, and H.-G. Ruek. The Tate pairing and the discrete logarithm 
applied to elliptic curve cryptosystems. IEEE Transaction on Information Theory, 
45(5): 1717-1718,1999. 
[3] A. Joux. A One Round Protocol for Tripartite Diffe-Hellmann. Proceedings of 
ANTS 4, LNCS 1838, pp.385-394, Springer-Verlag, 2000. 
[4] D. Boneh, M. Franklin. Identity Based Encryption from the Weil Pairing. 
Advances in Cryptology-Crypto 2001, LNCS 2139, pp.514-532, Springer-Verlag, 
Kushilevitz的单服务器私密信息撷取方案的注记 
陈俊华 1, 窦本年 2, 许春根 2 
(1国立中兴大学，台湾台中，500;) 
(2南京理工大学理学院，南京，210094 ) 
 
摘要 
 
在电子商务的环境中要保护使用者的隐私权，使服务器无法得知使用者于数据库中所撷取
的信息为何，一般认为这是不可能的。直到私密的信息获取(Private Information Retrieval: 
PIR)的问题被提出并加以解决。一个私密的信息获取方案允许使用者从在线服务器的数据库中
获取数据项，但却使服务器无法得知使用者查询的是何项数据。 
    1995年首先由Chor等人所提出的私密信息获取方案需使用K个服务器(将相同数据库复制
到K个服务器)。1997年Kushilevitz等人提出他们的单服务器私密信息获取方案(不需数据库
复制)，可简化多服务器的管理并降低成本。在本论文中，我们指出Kushilevitz的单服务器私
密信息获取方案，会让使用者一次查询中不止查询得知一个数据项；平均来说若数据库为n个
数据项，则使用者一次查询中可得知 n个资料项。 
 
关键词：使用者隐私权保护，私密的信息获取，Kushilevitz的单服务器私密信息获取方案 
 
1. 引言 
比较严谨的来说，私密的信息获取(private information retrieval :PIR)是一个问题：
如何让使用者从n个数据项去查询、获取第i个数据项，而使得服务器无从得知使用者查询是
第几个数据项。私密的信息获取的研究最早是由Chor等人于1995年提出 [1]，然后接着有不
少后续的研究工作[2-7]。藉着复制数据库在不同的服务器并限制它们之间的传输能力(也就是
说不允许它们共谋破密)，Chor等人所提出的私密信息获取方案[1, 2] 能够保护使用者的隐私。
兹就以下两例说明之： 
(1) 专利数据库： 
  如果专利数据库的服务器知道，在线使用者查询的意欲为何，这将导致许多的问题。我
们想象若有一个科学家开发了一个重要的新发明，很自然的他想去申请专利。但首先他需要去
在线专利数据库查询，是否已存在这样的专利或类似的专利。但此时该专利数据库服务器管理
者，已于该科学家查询时得知：该科学家有将此新发明申请为专利的意图，这样讯息的泄漏，
会给该服务器管理者有获取不法利益的机会。由此例我们知道，使用者查询的隐私权应当被保
护，以免产生以上不合理的现象。 
(2) 制药数据库： 
  制药公司为开发新药必需去搜集关于药品的基本成份和它们的特性，通常会有专门的公
司提供制药的数据库以供查询。合成一种新药的过程需要从该数据库取得该数种基本成份的信
息。为了让制造新药的计划不致外泄，制药公司往往购买下整个制药的数据，如果这种在线数
据库的查询能作到使用者隐私权保护(只知该使用者上线查询，却不知使用者所查询的是哪几笔
数据)，则可省去购买整个数据库的大笔费用，只需购买所需要的几种基本成份的在线信息即可。 
本篇论文于段落二简略描述原创论文的私密信息获取方案，于段落三对私密信息获取方案
3. 相关研究回顾 
起头一些PIR的后续研究着重降低传输复杂度(communication complexity)，传输复
杂度为衡量PIR方案的一个方法，其意义为萃取一个比特位所需的传输数据量，Chor等人
已于[2]中证明：单服务器PIR方案其所需的传输复杂度为O(n)：相当于下载整个数据库，
这是没有意义的解(等于服务器将整个数据库给了查询者)。虽然可藉着k服务器的PIR方
案(k≧2)来降低传输复杂度，从原来只有一个服务器要达到PIR的O(n)，降至O(n1/k) 。
但当数据库的大小非常大时这仍有不小的负担；因此有些关于PIR的后续研究上，都着眼
于如何降低其复杂度。 
Andris于[3]证明k服务器的PIR方案(k≧2)其传输复杂度降为O(n1/(2k-1))。Beimel等
人则提出降低服务器计算量的PIR方案[4]。 Chor于[5]中提出Computational PIR(CPIR)
的观念，降低其在安全性的要求为计算上的安全(Computational Security)，以别于之前
的PIR均为信息论上的安全 (Information Theoretic PIR)。 Chor等人提出两个数据库
服务器的 Computational PIR(CPIR)方案，其传输复杂度(Communication  Complexity)
为O(nε)，对任何的ε> 0。 
在多服务器的方案中，都有一个安全性的问题亦即服务器共谋的问题，在收到使用者
对k个服务器的查询信息后，将此k个讯息比对后可得到使用者想查的是数据库哪一笔信
息，这代表所有服务器共谋将破解PIR保护使用者隐私权的安全方案。因此Chor等人在
[2]中，干脆将服务器不能共谋作为此安全方案的先决条件。在多服务器的方案中还有一
个问题，因为最后使用者所要得到的信息，是由所有服务器的响应计算而得，因此若有服
务器响应的讯息若是错误的(有可能是恶意的)或无法响应(服务器当机)，将造成使用者最
后查询结果的错误。因此Beimel等人于[6]中提出强韧的PIR方案(Robust PIR Scheme)
以解决以上问题。此篇论文提出一个k-out-of-L PIR 方案，亦即只要在L个服务器中只
要有k个服务器能响应讯息且响应的讯息是正确的，就足以正确的计算出使用者所欲查询、
获取的信息。此篇论文所提出的方案虽然是强韧的，但其付出的代价就是要用到更多的服
务器(L ＞ k)。从以上研究的分析中我们发现多服务器的PIR方案其服务器管理的负担极
大，且有安全上的漏洞(服务器间的共谋)，这会使得PIR方案在实务上变得较不可行。 
在1997年 Kushilevitz等人提出了一个植基于二次剩余假定(quadratic-residue 
assumption) 的单服务器的CPIR方案(不再需要数据库复制) 其传输复杂度为O(nε)，我
们在下一段落将详细介绍Kushilevitz的私密信息获取方案[7]，并对其作注记。 
 
4. Kushilevitz的私密信息获取方案及其注记 
 4.1 预备观念： 
  1.N是一个自然数，定义     = {x | 1≤ x ≤ N, gcd(N, x) = 1}。 
2.还有二次剩余定义为如果          使得w2 = y mod N 我们说 y 是QR (二次剩
余)，否则我们说y 是QNR (非二次剩余)。 
3.Hk 定义为 {N|N = p1*p2; p1, p2 are two k/2-bit primes}。 
4.对于N    Hk，我们定义 }1)(|{ *1 +=∈=+ N
yZyZ NN  
5.把数据库X 视为一个 s × t 矩阵M，矩阵M的每个位置为数据库的一个比特位。
假设使用者有兴趣查数据库比特位 xi ，相对于矩阵M 是在(a,b)的位置。 
     4.2 Kushilevitz私密信息获取方案的描述 
*
NZ
*
NZw∈∃
∈
