2 
 
This method provides a high sensitivity and can 
quantify the PCR products in real-time without 
performing slab gel or capillary electrophoresis. 
However, the Q-PCR system is usually bulky and 
costly due to its complicated optical and thermal 
control components. 
The detection of viruses in clinical and 
environmental samples is of great interest for a 
range of diagnostic and biosafety applications. As 
microscale systems become increasingly applied to 
viral detection [5], the need to separate viruses from 
complex sample matrices, and the need to 
concentrate viruses present at extremely low 
concentrations, have become important challenges. 
As one important example, the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), which infects 33 
million people worldwide [6], has a clinically 
relevant concentration of 10
2–106 virions per 
milliliter of plasma. Microscale detection systems 
need to reliably detect only tens of virions in 100 
microliters of plasma. Currently, the only widely 
used commercial method for measuring such low 
concentrations of virus requires nucleic acid 
amplification (e.g., qRT-PCR, quantitative reverse 
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction). These 
systems require high-end laboratory equipment, 
skilled technicians, and infrastructure for 
transportation of samples and communication of 
results [7-9]. Due to a lack of some or all of these 
components, the viral load test is currently available 
to fewer than 10% of HIV patients worldwide. 
Reducing the viral load test to a low cost 
lab-on-a-chip platform would have wide reaching 
impact in HIV care. 
However, the low concentration of virus in 
clinical samples presents a major challenge to 
existing protein and RNA detection platforms in 
terms of sensitivity and throughput. The complex 
matrix of human plasma must also be addressed for 
many such detection systems to function. One 
approach is to miniaturize nucleic acid amplification 
and detection on microchips [10-12]; to date, the 
lack of reliable microscale methods for extracting 
nucleic acid from whole virions remains a major 
obstacle to viable point-of-care viral load testing 
through PCR-on-a-chip. 
This study presented an innovative microfluidic 
system for molecular diagnosis of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Even though 
detection genes for identification of HIV have been 
extensively explored and can be detected by 
traditional nucleic acid amplification methods (such 
as polymerase chain reaction, PCR), the  tedious 
sample pretreatment procedure still remains 
challenging, even by using magnetic beads with 
positive charges [13]. In this study, magnetic beads 
conjugated with nucleotide probes specific to HIV 
were used to perform purification and enrichment of 
target DNA. Then an on-chip PCR module was used 
to perform amplification of four detection genes. 
Finally an optical module was used to detect the 
amplified PCR products. Experimental results 
demonstrated that multiple HIV detection fragments 
could be amplified successfully and real-time 
detected using the developed system in the 
HIV-infected cell line within 95 min. 
 
2 Materials and Methods 
2.1 Chip Design 
In this study, a new microfluidic system 
integrated with sample pretreatment devices for fast 
diagnosis of HIV-infected cell line was reported. 
Figure 1 shows a schematic illustration of HIV-1 
sequence. To increase the accuracy of the diagnosis, 
the detections of four HIV DNA fragments were 
performed in this study. The entire process including 
cell lysis, extraction of DNA, PCR, and optical 
detection were successfully integrated into this 
microfluidic system, which can automatically 
perform the rapid diagnosis. Figure 2 shows a 
schematic illustration about the experimental 
process of the sample pretreatment and the on-chip 
4 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 3 (a) The schematic illustration and (b) the 
photograph of the integrated microfluidic chip. It 
can perform sample pre-treatment, PCR and optical 
detection. 
 
2.3 Sample preparation 
In this study, the performance of the micro 
sample pretreatment and PCR chip is demonstrated 
by amplifying four primer sets for 167-bp RU5, 
424-bp int, 117-bp tat, and 162-bp vpr, respectively, 
to carry out the specific detection fragments for 
HIV-infected cell line. Table 1 list the sequence of 
the probe and primers for the detection of HIV, 
respectively. In order to purify pathogen DNA by 
magnetic beads, each specific probe has to be coated 
on the surface of the magnetic beads (Dynabeads®  
MyOne™ Carboxylic Acid, Invitrogen Corp., USA) 
through carboxylated linkage between nucleotides 
and magnetic beads [16]. In brief, probes and 
magnetic beads were incubated with 
1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide, 
hydrochloride (Invitrogen Corp., USA) at room 
temperature overnight. After washing process, the 
magnetic beads conjugated with probes were 
blocked by ethanol amine (Sigma-Aldrich Corp. 
LLC., USA) before performing on-chip analysis. 
For the HIV infected cell line detection, the 
PCR mixture consists of 2μl SYBR Green I labeling 
dye, 5.5μl of ddH2O, 1μl of 2.5mmol dNTP mixture, 
2μl of Super-Therm Gold 10X buffer with 15mmol 
MgCl2, 0.5μl of Super-Therm Gold enzyme, 0.5μl of 
10mol forward primer, 0.5μl of 10mol reverse 
primer, and 10μl of DNA template. The initial 
concentrations of HIV cell line that are used for the 
sample pretreatment and PCR procedure are from 0 
to 10
4 
cells/10µl. 
To perform the replication process with the 
same protocol, reactions are thermocycled in the 
micro PCR chip: denaturation at 95℃ for 5 min, 35 
cycles of 95℃ for 30s, 55℃ for 30s, and 72℃ for 
30s, followed by a 7 min extension at 72℃.. For 
comparison, the PCR products are also separated 
and analyzed by using a 2% concentration of 
agarose gel electrophoresis that is stained by 
ethidium bromide (Sigma Chemical, USA) and then 
visualized under UV light. 
 
Table 1 Probe and primers for the detection of HIV. 
 
2.4 Experimental setup 
As shown in Fig. 4 (a), a custom-made system 
was produced to perform all bioanalysis steps 
automatically. This system comprises of a 
temperature control module (USB4718, Advantech 
Corp., Taiwan) with thermoelectric cooler 
6 
 
 
Figure 5 Relationship between the pumping rate and 
the applied air pressure for the suction-type 
micropump. 
 
3.2 Detection of the HIV cell line samples 
In order to characterize the micro sample 
pretreatment and PCR system composed with 
disposable reaction chambers with active 
compensation units, the HIV infected cell line and 
the normal cell line were used for performing the 
sample pretreatment and PCR procedure in this 
study. In addition, four primer sets for 167-bp RU5, 
424-bp int, 117-bp tat, and 162-bp vpr were detected 
to increase the accuracy of the diagnosis. Figure 6 
are the electropherograms of the PCR products by 
using the disposable stationary PCR chip. Lane L 
was 100-bp ladder DNA markers (Yeastern Biotech 
Corp., Taiwan). Lane NC was the PCR products by 
using the normal cell line and amplifying with the 
prime set of 167-bp RU5. It indicated that the DNA 
of the normal cell line would not be caught by the 
probe-conjugated magnetic beads. Signals in lanes 
The PCR products were obtained by using the 
bench-top PCR machine for positive control and the 
micro sample pretreatment and PCR system. After 
35 thermal cycles, four detection genes, including 
167-bp RU5, 424-bp int, 117-bp tat, and 162-bp vpr, 
could be successfully amplified by the bench-top 
PCR machine and the micro sample pretreatment 
and PCR system.  
 
Figure 6 Slab-gel electropherograms of PCR 
products. HIV-infected cell line was detected by 
using the bench-top PCR machine and the microchip, 
respectively, and four panels including 167-bp RU5, 
424-bp int, 117-bp tat, and 162-bp vpr. 
 
3.3 Sensitivity and Specificity 
In this study, the initial cell line concentrations 
ranging from 0 to 10
4
cells/10µl were tested. The 
experimental data also indicated that the initial cell 
line concentration was higher than 10cells/10µl, the 
four detection genes, including 167-bp RU5, 424-bp 
int, 117-bp tat, and 162-bp vpr, could be 
successfully amplified, respectively, by using the 
micro sample pretreatment and PCR system. In 
addition, the plasmid HIV DNA with the 
concentration ranging from 10
-2
 to 10
-5
 ng/ml were 
also used to perform the PCR produce for the 
sensitivity, as shown in Figure 7. Note that 1 μg full 
length of HIV cDNA equals to 6.2  1010 copies. 
The electropherograms also show the micro PCR 
system exhibit a better performance than the PCR 
machine due to the high temperature uniformity. It 
also indicates that the amplified PCR products 
increase with the increasing concentration of the 
DNA templates. Experimental data also revealed 
that a high reproducibility of up 90% could be 
achieved if the initial template concentration was 
higher than 10
-4
 ng/ml. 
The proposed microfluidic system could detect 
four detection genes simultaneously. Therefore, the 
8 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 8 Specificity test. L: 100-bp DNA ladders; 
NC: negative control. (a) PCR products using 
primers specific to Simian immunodeficiency virus 
(SIV) infected cell line, (b) PCR products using 
primers specific to hepatitis C virus (HCV) infected 
cell line. 
 
3.4 On-line DNA replication and quantification 
The fluorescence intensity curve for four 
detection genes, including 167-bp RU5, 424-bp int, 
117-bp tat, and 162-bp vpr, are shown in Figure 9. 
The experimental data shows the fluorescence 
signals for 10
-4
ng/ml DNA templates drop after 41, 
40, 39, and 40 thermal cycles for 167-bp RU5, 
424-bp int, 117-bp tat, and 162-bp vpr, respectively, 
because of the depletion of the enzyme mix. When 
the enzyme mix is depleted, the extending reaction 
can be not perfectly accomplished. Thus, the 
denatured DNA templates annealing with the 
primers cannot be replicated and annealing to be a 
double strand DNA. 
 
Figure 9 SYBR Green I fluorescence history versus 
cycle number of detecting (1) 167-bp RU5, (2) 
424-bp int, (3) 117-bp tat, and (4) 162-bp vpr. The 
initial concretion of full length of HIV cDNA was 
10
-4
 ng to be used for amplifying and quantitating. 
 
4 Conclusions 
This study presented an innovative microfluidic 
system for molecular diagnosis of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The magnetic beads 
conjugated with nucleotide probes specific to HIV 
were used to perform purification and enrichment of 
target DNA. Then an on-chip PCR module was used 
to perform amplification of four detection genes. 
Finally an optical module was used to detect the 
amplified PCR products. Experimental results 
demonstrated that multiple HIV detection fragments 
could be amplified successfully and real-time 
detected using the developed system in the 
HIV-infected cell line within 95 min.  
Experimental results also showed that four 
primer sets for 167-bp RU5, 424-bp int, 117-bp tat, 
and 162-bp vpr can be used to successfully amplify 
the specific detection fragments for HIV-infected 
cell line. It indicated that our developed system can 
obtain comparable results within a shorter period of 
time. Furthermore, it can perform the accurate 
diagnosis within 95 min, which is much faster than 
the conventional method (more than 3 hours). The 
10 
 
6 計畫成果自評 
為了百分之百的確定，一般 HIV 血液檢測均
建議加作 HIV 聚合酶連鎖反應(Polymerase chain 
reaction, PCR)檢測，可排除空窗期檢驗偽陰性的
結果。基本上，90%至 95%都可以在六週或更短
的時間檢測到空窗期的 HIV-1。近來醫療行為越
來越注重品質，尤其面對越來越多發病潛伏期短
的高感染性病毒，必須要有一套快速且準確又方
便的檢測方式，來對於病人提供更好的服務。因
此，伴隨著檢測過程中所需的分子診斷技術外，
臨床檢體之前處理與濃縮萃取的程序於醫學檢驗
中亦是不可或缺的一環。於微流體晶片應用檢測
中，臨床檢體之前處理、DNA 的萃取與純化均可
以簡化，而藉由分子探針雜交的方法可大幅簡化
及縮短萃取與濃縮檢體的時間。本計畫所研發之
整合型微流體自動化 HIV 臨床檢體前處理與檢測
平台，不僅目前可用於快速人類之 HIV 檢測外，
之後更可利用分子探針之高專一性，即可進行多
種傳染性疾病之分析。因此，本計畫所開發之整
合型實驗室晶片系統平台，亦能對快速疾病檢驗
及其他相關應用，提供具體的貢獻。 
 2 
此次研討會另一特色為”Transducers 30週年紀念”展示, Transducers在 1981年在Boston舉辦第一次
會議, 當時之創始發起人(Founder)為 2 名台籍美國人及一名美國人, 歷經 30 年後今年在中國北京舉辦
研討會, 意義非凡, 因此特舉辦回顧及資料展, 為此研討會留下珍貴紀錄。 
此次論文數還是以美國居先, 共有 217 篇論文, 其次是日本, 共有 106 篇; 大陸因為是舉辦國, 投
稿特別踴躍, 共有 74 篇論文獲得接受; 台灣則居第 4 名, 共有 69 篇論文; 值得注意的是大陸與台灣之
論文總數第一次超越日本, 也創下紀錄！ 
本次大會也正式宣佈 2013 年將在西班牙 Barcelona 舉辦。另外, 台灣此次參與 2017 年研討會之競
標, 順利取得舉辦權, 將在高雄舉辦研討會。 
此次大會共有 1200 人註冊出席，此次會議共分數個子題，分別為（ 1）生醫微機電
(Biomedical-MEMS)，（2）微流體系統(Microfluidics)，（3）微製程 (Microfabrication)， （4）數值模
擬及理論 (CAD & Theory) ，（5）產能微系統 (power MEMS) ，（6）感測器 (Acoustics & Sensors) ，
（7）封裝(packaging) ，（8）光學微系統 (Optical-MEMS)，（9）微致動器 (Micro actuators)，（10）
高頻微系統 (RF-MEMS)，（11）Nanotechnology 等。 
此次大會演講均十分精彩, 分別由美國, 歐洲, 日本的著名學者介紹其研究成果, 其題目如下: 
1. Prof. Hiroyuki Fujita - University of Tokyo, Japan 
“New Trends of MEMS/NEMS based on Heterogeneous Process Integration - Towards Life/Green 
Innovation” 
2. Prof. Roger T. Howe - Stanford University, USA 
“Vacuum Microsystems for Energy Conversion and other Applications”  
3. Prof. Roland Zengerle - IMTEK, University of Freiburg, Germany 
“Microfluidic Platforms for Miniaturization, Integration, Automation and Parallelization of Tests on 
Commercially Available Instruments” 
 
本人此次有1篇海報論文發表討會, 其論文題目及摘要如下:  
Title: 
A NEW PLATFORM FOR ASEEMBLY OF CARBON NANOTUBES ON NANO SENSORS BY 
UTILIZING OPTICALLY-NDUCED DIELECTROPHORESIS AND DIELECTROPHORESIS 
Abstract: 
This study reports a new platform capable of assembling carbon nanotubes (CNTs) between electrodes to 
form CNT-based nano sensors based on the combination of optically-induced dielectrophoresis (ODEP) force 
and dielectrophoresis (DEP) force. Indium-tin-oxide (ITO) electrodes and amorphous silicon (a-Si) layer were 
patterned and then used to assemble CNTs. By utilizing moving light patterns, the CNTs could be collected to 
the central area between two ITO electrodes. The CNTs with different concentrations can be collected to form 
CNT-based nano sensors with different widths of sensing elements successfully. Preliminary results for CNTs 
immobilization were also demonstrated by exposing them to an ultraviolet (UV) light source. 
 
Transducers 海報論文要求作者頇在特定時間(約 3 小時)內站在海報前進行口頭報告。必頇以口頭方
 4 
 
 
六、其他 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王榮豪 計畫編號：99-2218-E-006-234- 
計畫名稱：檢體前處理與反轉錄聚合脢連鎖反應晶片應用於 HIV 檢測 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100% 
論 文 題 目 為
Integrated chip 
for sample 
pretreatment and 
PCR and their 
applications，投
稿至 Biosensors 
and Bioelectrics
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
論 文 題 目 為
Sample 
pretreatment and 
PCR for HIV 
detection on 
Microfluidic 
system ，投稿至
IEEE MEMS 2012 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
國外 
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
