Abstract 
This paper describes a novel integrated micromachining method that combines wire electro discharge grinding (WEDG) 
technology with one pulse electro discharge (OPED) technology to fabricate micro spherical stylus tips for micro coordinate 
measuring machine(CMM). The results reveal that a burnished micro spherical stylus with a diameter of approximately ¢40µm 
can be formed instantaneously when the electro-discharge peak current and pulse duration are set to approximately 1.8A and 50µs, 
respectively. We found that the smaller the diameter of the shaft electrode, the more conical the stylus tip that is formed becomes 
and that the larger the diameter of the shaft electrode, the more elliptical tip becomes. The spherical stylus tip has a small 
roundness deviation of approximately 2µm with an upper shaft diameter between 20µm and 25µm. Spherical stylus tips formed 
from the same polarity electro-discharge energies are almost identical in dimension. With advanced research of micro CMM 
probing system, it will be possible to measure micrometer-sized products more precisely. 
Key word: Micromachining, Micro EDM, Micro spherical stylus, Micro CMM 
 
1. Introduction  
In the last decade, the trend towards the miniaturization of complex commercial products has led to an increased need for high 
precision machining, assembling and measuring devices. As the precision of micro products increases, so does the need for highly 
accurate three-dimensional measurements. The coordinate measuring machine (CMM), as a versatile and widely used metrology 
tool for micro dimensional measurements performs complex measurements with resolutions as high as nanometer-scale[1]. Micro 
CMMs have been developed to measure micrometer-sized features on millimeter-sized objects and it is common to refer to them 
in the literature as being capable of measuring micro-electro-mechanical systems’ (MEMS) structures. However, most of the 
commercial CMM systems have a stylus tip with a typically diameter of 0.3mm, which is far too large to measure most MEMS 
structures [2]. In precision industrial fields, contacting measurements of micro CMM is widely used to measure the truly 
three-dimensional micrometer-sized profiles, such as deep micro trenches with high aspect ratios and sidewalls and micro nozzles 
for diesel or spark ignition engines. The key to achieving truly three-dimensional micrometer-sized profile measurements using 
micro CMM systems is to form micrometer-sized spherical stylus tips. However, with conventional mechanical machining 
methods or MEMS processes, fabricating spherical stylus with micrometer-sized tips is not possible. A novel integrated machining 
method, combining WEDG technology and OPED technology, has been developed to fabricate micrometer-sized spherical stylus 
instantaneously [3]. However, the optimal parameters: including discharge energy, micro tool material and upper shaft diameter of 
the OPED system: have not yet been determined.  
  In this paper, various upper shaft diameters were first shaped using WEDG technology. OPED was then carried out to 
investigate the relationship between the diameter of the spherical stylus and the electro-discharge energy required. In the second 
experiment, we calculated the electro-discharge energy and used an oscilloscope to record the electro-discharge pulse duration and 
peak current to investigate the instantaneous energy effects on micrometer-sized spherical stylus tips.  
2. Shaping micro tools and OPED process 
 Before we can fabricate the micro spherical stylus tip we need to first prepare the straight micro tools. Wire electrode tools of 
various diameters are readily available in the commercial market, even straight ones with diameter less than 0.08mm. However, 
these micro wire electrodes are difficult to install with high accuracy on an EDM machine. WEDG technology [4] is easily 
employed and combined with OPED for micro tool fabrication on one machine as illustrated in Fig. 1. WEDG technology is 
similar to turning on a lathe except that material is removed by erosion with electrical discharge. A resistor-capacitor (RC) circuit 
generates pulses that produce electrical discharges between the electrode workpiece and a brass (or tungsten) sacrificial wire. 
Discharges between the two polarities cross a small gap (just few micrometers) filled with dielectric oil. The cylindrical material 
is held in a mandrel that rotates at 2500 RPM, and its position is fed in the z-direction with an electro-discharge current detector. 
The brass wire is supported on a guide, and its position is controlled with an optical linear scale connected to a personal computer. 
To maintain a constant gap between the polarities, the sacrificial wire travels on the guide at a very slow speed. With precise 
duration. Not only is the energy created by an OPED system controllable, but also is easily to combine WEDG and OPED 
together on the same electro discharge machine. In addition, multi-OPED systems are more cost-effective than other machining 
processes in fabricating micro spherical stylus tips and micro holes. 
 
Figure 2: Electro-discharge energy of OPED system 
3.2 Effects of the upper shaft of micro tools 
 Figure 3 shows the outer shape of the micro stylus at the same electro-discharge thermal energy of OPED. As shown in this 
figure, the experimental results reveal that a burnished micro spherical stylus that is approximately ¢40µm in diameter can be 
formed instantaneously when the electro-discharge peak current and pulse duration are approximately 1.8A and 50µs respectively.  
 
Figure 3: Outer shape of micro spherical stylus by OPED 
As calculated by Equation 1, electro-discharge energy is approximately 9mJ. The smaller the diameter of the shaft electrode D 
will be larger than L. This means that the stylus tip will become more conical. On the contrary, the larger the diameter of the shaft 
electrode, the more elliptical the stylus tip will become. Compared to other mechanical machining processes, an EDM’s 
machining force is almost negligible.  
Figure 4: Views of micro spherical stylus by OPED system 
OPED technology is a plastic forming process that uses electro-discharge thermal energy. The surface tension force is a critical 
factor in determining the qualities of the spherical stylus tips formed. As shown in Figure 7, micro tools of three different 
materials were first formed using WEDG technology and then OPED was carried out on the same machine. Unlike micro tools 
made of tungsten, the micro spherical stylus tips formed from stainless steel, nickel, and tungsten carbide (WC) micro tools are 
not as precise. This is probably due to an imbalance in the shrinking force and surface tension of the different elements within 
each material. Tungsten is an excellent material for contacting micro spherical stylus tips because of its both toughness and 
precision shape.   
 
Figure 7: Views of spherical stylus tip with different material 
4. Conclusion  
An OPED system with integrated WEDG technology was applied to fabricate micro spherical stylus tips that conventional 
machining methods were not capable of forming. A burnished micro spherical stylus with a tip diameter of approximately ¢40µm 
was formed instantaneously using the electro-discharge peak current and pulse duration of approximately 1.8A and 50µs, 
respectively. We found that the smaller the diameter of the shaft electrode, the more conical the stylus tip becomes, and that the 
larger the diameter of the shaft electrode, the more elliptical the stylus tips becomes. The spherical stylus tip has a roundness 
deviation of approximately 2µm with an upper shaft diameter between 20µm and 25µm. Moreover, the micro spherical stylus tip 
formed was approximately ¢50µm when the one pulse discharge energy was fixed at approximately 12mJ and was completely 
independent of pulse duration and peak current. That is, spherical stylus tips formed are almost the same dimension at the same 
polarities electro-discharge energy. In addition, material elements with large surface tension will affect the qualities of the 
spherical stylus tips. Tungsten is an excellent material for micro spherical stylus tips because of its hardness and precision 
spherical shape. With advanced research of micro CMM probing system, it will be possible to measure micrometer-sized products 
more precisely. 
Acknowledgement 
   This study was carried out under the sponsor of the National Science Council (NSC-94-2212-E-027-007-Ⅱ). The authors 
express deep gratitude to the NSC of Taiwan for their support in research. 
 
Reference 
[1] G.N. Peggs, A.J. Lewis, S. Oldfield 1999 Design for a Compact High-Accuracy CMM Annals of the CIRP Vol.48/1/1999 pp. 
417-420. 
[2] H.Schwenke, F,waldele, C. Weiskirch, H. Kunzmann 2001 Opto-Tactile Sensor for 2D and 3D Measurement of Small 
Structures on Coordinate Measuring Machine Annals of the CIRP Vol.50/1/2001 pp.361-364 
[3] D.-Y.,Sheu 2005 Micro- Spherical Probes Machining by EDM  Journal of Micromechanics and Microengineering 
Vol.15(2005) pp.185-189  
[4] T.Masuzawa, M. Fujino and K. Kobayashi: Wire Electro-Discharge Grinding for Micro machining Annals of CIRP, Vol.34,1 
(1985) PP. 431-434  
[5] Kai Egashira, Katsumi Mizutani 2002 Micro-drilling of monocrystalline silicon using a cutting tool  Journal of International 
Societies for Precision Engineering and Nanotechnology Vol.26(2002) pp. 263-268 
[6] Chris J Morgan, R Ryan Vallance and Eric R Marsh 2004 Micro machining glass with polycrystalline diamond tools shaped by 
