 2
植生邊坡分析模型建立及根系強度試驗（II） 
NSC 98-2221-E-027-095 
研究成果報告（精簡版） 
陳偉堯、鐘雅蘭、孫浩淳、溫仁志、陳博文、陳意雯、鍾佩蓉、林忠志 
摘要 
生態工法是國內重要的研究議題，但是過去基礎研究缺乏，致使相關發展不如預期快速，本研
究希望能針對邊坡穩定的部份探討植生的可能貢獻。植物根系加勁土壤的狀況會依當地的地質
與植生的種類而有所不同，植生可以攔截、抑制、阻止和防止地表侵蝕，植生也可以加勁、吸
取水分和提供支撐以防止土體運動，如果正確地加以利用，對坡地安全頗有助益。本研究除了
收集國內外相關根系強度研究數字外，亦在現地以根系拉拔儀器直接獲取植物根系的強度，以
比對研究文獻的資料，提供本土植物根系強度參數的研究成果。除此之外，本研究也針對邊坡
穩定分析的部份運用電腦程式探討植生的貢獻並與 STABL 進行比較。本計畫共有兩年，這是
第二年（最後一年）的成果，主要工作內容是在第一年的研究基礎之上繼續進行現地根系拉拔
試驗，以及使用統計手段進行邊坡安全潛勢指標評估。除了這些當初規劃的研究內容之外，本
研究也開始探討利用粒子群進行邊坡穩定分析及使用三維雷射掃描儀進行猴山岳邊坡掃描的
可能性。 
關鍵詞：植生邊坡，邊坡穩定，根系強度 
Abstract 
Ecological engineering is an important research field in Taiwan. Unfortunately, past progress was 
hampered by the lack of basic researches to provide the needed ecological data and site-specific 
parameters for engineering modeling and analysis. In this research, we focused on the issue of slope 
stability and studied the possible roles of vegetation in preventing landslides. First, the 
relationship/model between vegetation and soil strength was examined and root strength data of 
various plants were collected. Then, a database was developed to organize the root strength data and a 
computer program was written to analyze vegetated slopes, which takes the strength contribution of 
roots into account. Finally, field experiments were conducted with custom-made apparatus to 
determine the tensile strengths of roots at a local landslide site. This approach provided us a better 
assessment of root strengths in the local area and better reflected the real-world situations than 
depending on the literature alone. The results contributed to our knowledge of the native or local 
species of vegetation in Taiwan and gave us the ability to analyze the contribution of vegetation to 
slope stability, which in turn improved the understanding and predictability of slope failures. 
In addition, other original research work has also been done in the second year of this two-year study. 
For example, the spatial distribution of the hillside disasters in the Taipei City was statistically 
analyzed to assess the effectiveness of the proposed disaster index and the particle swarm 
optimization technique was used in the search for the most critical sliding surfaces. Finally, the 
feasibility study of using a high resolution 3D laser scanner to perform terrain and vegetation 
mapping at the landslide site was commenced. 
Keywords: vegetated slopes, stability analysis, theoretical models, root strength
 4
圖 1 第 1至 10行的根系分佈 
 
圖 2 第 11至 20行的根系分佈 
 
 6
54-1 
 
1.49 1.51 
81-2 
 
0.66 3.76 
82-1 
 
0.72 2.27 
86-1 
 
0.5 7.51 
 
more than tripling the monthly average of 2008. Typhoon 
Sinlaku remained lingering in Taiwan for a long period of time 
afterwards. The serious damage caused by its rainstorms and 
gales included the loss of agriculture products, river flooding, 
structural collapses, and landslides. One of the landslides 
caused by the typhoon was the landslide at the study site on Mt. 
Houshanyue, and this research aimed to scan the site to 
establish a 3-D model of the area for long-term monitoring 
purposes. 
Geographically Mt. Houshanyue is located in the Wen-shan 
district of Taipei City, Taiwan. The study site was north to a 
tea plantation and near a Taipower 345 kV transmission tower, 
which was exposed to potential structural damage by the 
landslide. The study area was also located on unstable ground 
and adjacent to a hiking trail. It collapsed several times in 2008 
alone, once after the Kalmaegi typhoon (July 2008) and 
another after the Sinlaku typhoon (September 2008). The total 
area affected by the landslides is about 10 hectares and the 
elevation change is significant, about 80 meters within the 
boundary of the study area as shown in Fig 1. The landslides at 
Mt. Houshanyue are rather complex and consist of several 
small individual slides as shown obviously by regions of bare 
ground in the figure. 
 
Figure 1.  Aerial photo and contour map of the case study site (Mt. 
Houshanyue). 
III. TERRESTRIAL LASER SCANNER 
Terrestrial laser scanners offer the possibility of using 
remote and non-destructive methods to scan and monitor 
objects without direct contact with the objects themselves. 
They can be operated swiftly to acquire point cloud data while 
retaining data accuracy. Hence, terrestrial laser scanning, as a 
substitute for traditional measurement techniques, is widely 
applied in a variety of research fields, such as the 
reconstruction of buildings and man-made structures [1-3], the 
monitoring of cliff evolution [4], the characterization of rock 
joints [5], the conservation of cultural heritage [6], the scanning 
of pipelines for hazard assessment [7], the investigation and 
evaluation of forest growth [8-9], and the monitoring of large-
scale landslides [10-11]. 
There are considerable differences among terrestrial laser 
scanners. Some are specially designed for long-range scanning 
while others are very accurate up close within a few meters to 
the target. The specific device being utilized in this research is 
the Riegl LMS-Z620. Its measurement distance ranges from 2 
to 2000 meters with a scanning accuracy to 10 mm. The rate of 
measurement is as high as 11,000 pts/sec, which allowed us to 
complete the field scanning process in two working days. The 
coordinate system adopted in this study was TWD97 (Taiwan 
Datum 1997). The total area affected by the landslides was 
close to 10 hectares, and 13 ground control points were set up 
in order to establish a consistent coordinate system for the 
entire area. 
 
Figure 2.  Layout of 13 ground control points at the study site. 
IV. FIELD WORK 
This research is the first 3-D laser scanning of the study 
area. The field work was completed in two days but the 
planning began long before. There were three phases: 
preparatory work, field work, and post processing. They are 
described as follows: 
A. Preparatory Work 
• Factual Data Collection: Information related to the 
study site such as location maps, aerial photographs, 
rainfall records, existing DTM, and published reports 
were collected at this stage in preparation for the field 
visits.  
 
Figure 4.  Processed point cloud of the southern slope (viewing direction 1 as 
marked in Fig. 3). 
 
Figure 5.  Front view of the processed point cloud of the northern slope 
(viewing direction 2 as marked in Fig. 3). 
 
Figure 6.  Right-side view of the processed point cloud of the northern slope 
(viewing direction 3 as marked in Fig. 3). 
 
Figure 7.  Left-side view of the processed point cloud of the northern slope 
(viewing direction 4 as marked in Fig. 3).  
VI. SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION 
In recent years, laser scanning has made strong inroad with 
the rapid progress of technology, and is ready for wide 
adoption by various research fields. In contrast to traditional 
surveying techniques, the terrestrial laser scanning takes far 
less time to obtain the 3-D information of the target while 
achieving high measurement accuracy at the same time. The 
data collected can be easily processed to create a 3-D virtual 
environment and easily archived for long-term monitoring and 
comparison. In summary, 
• This research completed the first laser scanning of the 
landslide site of Mt. Houshanyue. The 3-D laser 
scanner used in this study performed 360-degree 
panoramic scanning and photography with high 
precision in a short amount of time. The results could 
be used in the subsequent stability analysis of the slope 
and in the long-term monitoring of the landform 
evolution. 
• To obtain the best results in difficult terrains such as 
hilly areas, the laser scanner needs to be set up at 
different strategic points with unobstructed views of 
the slope. Control points are also needed if multiple 
scans at different locations are to be combined and 
transformed into the same coordinate reference system. 
It is also recommended to deter passer-bys while 
conducting scans. 
• Compared with traditional surveying methods, laser 
scanning provides the unique opportunity to quickly 
assess the field situation in the events of major 
disasters such as typhoons and earthquakes. First 
responders equipped with laser scanners can quickly 
acquire and relay the field conditions back to the 
Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) to coordinate 
rescue effort and volunteers. 
• As a rule of thumb, landslides tend to occur at the same 
locations repeatedly (landslide succession). Terrestrial 
laser scanning is useful in this situation to provide 
constant monitoring of the sites. As the landform 
evolves over time, scans took at different times can be 
compared to assess possible landslides and their 
dimensions. Laser scanning can also be used to 
Reconstructing Tree Trunks from Point Clouds Using PSO 
Walter Chen 
Dept. of Civil Engineering 
National Taipei University of Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan ROC 
waltchen@ntut.edu.tw 
Powen Chen 
Dept. of Civil Engineering/Institute of Information and 
Logistics Management 
National Taipei University of Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan ROC 
powellchen@gmail.com
Abstract—Trees have a common tendency to grow vertically 
and bent trees usually imply previous movements of 
underlying soils. For trees located on a landslide site, the tilt 
and bend angles of the trees can therefore be used to estimate 
the sliding distance of the slope. To achieve this end and to 
serve as a pilot study, this paper studied the feasibility of 
scanning trees using a terrestrial laser scanner and 
reconstructing the tree trunks by fitting cylinders to the 
resulting point clouds using the particle swarm optimization 
(PSO) technique. The results were very satisfactory and a 
parametric study was done to demonstrate the influence of 
parameter selection. 
Keywords-point clouds, tree trunks, PSO 
I. INTRODUCTION
Landslide hazard is a common problem in typhoon-prone 
areas. As the most common and frequent disaster occurring 
in Taiwan, landslides usually happen after torrential rainfall 
that accompanies typhoons in summer and fall. The 
devastation is profound, at the cost of many lives and much 
loss. Therefore, studying the mechanism and the history of 
landslides is a major first step towards reducing the damage 
from natural disasters. 
Normally the study of landslide mechanism involved the 
testing of soils and rocks that compose the slope, either in-
situ or in the laboratory. Groundwater and runoff conditions 
were noted and used in the stability analysis of the slope in 
question. Only very rarely did engineers use information 
pertaining to ground cover and vegetation in the analysis. 
Parameters such as the types of trees and the tilt and bend 
angles of the trees on the slope were just never included. 
This study decided to take a fresh look at the landslide 
problem by aiming specifically at the neglected relationship 
between trees and slopes and developed a technique to 
determine the tilt and bend angles of the trees. 
II. PILOT STUDY
As a part of a more comprehensive study, this paper 
aimed to devise a technique that could be used to reconstruct 
tree trunks using point clouds registered by a terrestrial laser 
scanner. Since trees have a tendency to grow vertically, the 
deviation from vertical indicates possible movements of 
underlying soil formations. If the reconstruction was 
successful, it would be possible then to calculate the angle of 
deviation for each section of the tree. 
III. FORMULATION
A. Modeling Tree Trunks as Cylinders 
For all practical purposes, a tree’s trunk could be 
approximated as a cylinder with small branches and leaves 
attached to it. Since we were only concerned about the 
change of the growth direction of the tree, the branches and 
leaves were ignored from further consideration. If the soil 
layer that supported the tree was stable throughout the tree’s 
growth, a fairly straight and vertical tree could be anticipated. 
On the other hand, if the underlying soil layer experienced 
movement as a result of landslides, the tree might become 
tilted. Over time, the tree would recover and grow back to 
the vertical until another occurrence of landslide to change 
its growth direction again. To model this behavior, a series of 
short cylinders were used to approximate the sections of the 
tree as shown in Fig. 1. 
Figure 1. Modeling a tilted tree as a series of cylinders. 
2010 International Conference on Intelligent Computation Technology and Automation
978-0-7695-4077-1/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICICTA.2010.859
996
B. Program Development 
A program was implemented using the C# language to 
compute the cylinders that best fitted the given point clouds. 
The fit was determined by the cost function, and the cost 
function was optimized by PSO as described in the previous 
section. Fig. 5 shows the test point clouds obtained by the 
Topcon Image Station and rendered by the program. Also 
displayed in Fig. 5 are the X, Y, and Z axes. Using 5 
cylinders, 20 particles and 100 iterations, the program 
determined the best fit cylinders as those shown in Fig. 6. 
From Fig. 6, the tilt and bend angles of the tree could be 
determined. 
Figure 5. Test point clouds displayed by the program. 
Figure 6. Five cylinders that best fitted the test point clouds.  
V. PARAMETRIC STUDY
In constructing the best-fit cylinders to the scanned 
points as demonstrated in Fig. 6, several factors came into 
play that would lead to different solution values and run 
times. For any single given cylinder, the most important 
factor was the location of the axis of the cylinder. This is 
because our entire formulation was based on the computation 
of the distances between the points and the axis. Since the 
cylinder was the object to be determined, it seemed unlikely 
that we would know the exact location of the axis 
beforehand. An initial guess must be made. After 
experimenting with different guesses with the program, it has 
been observed that satisfactory results would only be 
obtained if the initial guess was made wisely. In order to 
compare the effect of different initial guesses, a test scenario 
was set up and repeated with different parameters to see the 
different behaviors and results. The parameters are divided 
into two groups: 
A. Location of the Axis of the Cylinder 
The axis of the cylinder was assumed to be vertical 
initially, and its location was initialized using the following 
three different methods: 
• Average: obtained by taking an average of all points 
in the point clouds 
• Average of Max and Min: obtained by taking an 
average of only the outermost points in the point 
clouds (in either the X or the Y direction) 
• Random: obtained at random in the space considered 
B. Relative Weights of the Three Components in (1) 
It is obvious from (1) that the new velocity of the particle 
is combinedly determined by the previous velocity, the pbest, 
and the gbest. Therefore, instead of the values 1 and 2 used 
in (1), the following three coefficients (Table I) were 
introduced. Each one of them ranges from 0.0 to 2.2 with a 
fixed interval of 0.2. Given these values, there were 12 * 12 
* 12 = 1728 different combinations of parameters tested in 
this study. For each combination, the program calculated the 
optimized cost of fitting cylinders. 
TABLE I. COEFFICIENTS INTRODUCED INTO THE PSO FORMULA
Coefficients 
Range of values 
Max Min Interval Total number 
Coeff. of v 2.2 0.0 0.2 12 
Coeff. of pbest 2.2 0.0 0.2 12 
Coeff. of gbest 2.2 0.0 0.2 12 
VI. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
The results of 1728 test runs are summarized in Fig. 7. 
The raw data were sorted first according to their optimized 
cost before being plotted. Therefore, the X-axis merely 
displays the number of combinations with no additional 
meanings attached or implied. Three initial guesses were 
plotted as three different lines. The topmost line (yellow) 
was obtained by random guessing the initial location of the 
axis. The middle line (red) was obtained by taking an 
average of all points in the point clouds and using it as the 
initial location. Finally, the bottommost line (blue) was 
obtained by simply taking the average of the outermost 
points and using it as the initial guess. The following are 
observed from the figure: 
998
九十八年電子計算機於土木水利工程應用研討會   
 
1 國立台北科技大學土木與防災研究所 研究生 
2 國立台北科技大學土木與防災研究所 副教授 
統計方法與 GIS 之結合應用於山坡地災害潛勢分析 
 
鍾佩蓉 1 溫仁志 1 陳偉堯 2 
 
摘要 
台灣地處環太平洋地震帶上及亞熱帶氣候區，因此颱風帶來的豪雨及地震的頻繁
是台灣無法避免也必須面對的天然災害。台灣都市的人口過度密集，土地利用有限，
便逐漸往山區遷移，大量的開發山坡地，導致山坡地的超限利用及不當開發，造成許
多的人民及財產的傷亡與損失。本研究將台北市分割成1km×1km的網格，並利用坡地
災害相關因子及坡地歷史災害資料，處理製作成GIS圖層，利用MapInfo計算各圖層疊
加後的指標分數。利用多變數迴歸分析及類神經網路分析評估綜合指標模型的有效
性，將坡地災害相關因子及坡地歷史災害資料進行迴歸分析，探討迴歸分析出的數據，
並將坡地歷史災害資料點位作空間分布統計分析，討論這些歷史災害點位之分布是否
為均勻或隨機，將最後分析出的結果以視覺化展示，以提供給區域計畫或土地利用者
參考。 
關鍵詞：地理資訊系統、坡地災害、統計分析。 
 
Pei-Jung Chung*, Jen-Chih Wen*, Walter W. Chen** 
MS Student*, Associate Professor** 
Dept. of Civil Engineering, National Taipei University of Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 106, R.O.C. 
 
ABSTRACT 
Taiwan is located in the Pacific Rim earthquake belt and sub-tropical climate zone. This 
renders Taiwan vulnerable to natural disasters, notably typhoons and earthquakes. An 
increased number of hillside communities have been developed, and excessive and improper 
hillside development aggravates into a serious problem causing great casualties and property 
loss in times of typhoons and earthquakes. This study divides Taipei City into 1 km × 1 km 
grids and collects the triggering factors and historical data of hillside disasters so as to 
develop GIS data layers for analysis. After pre-processing data layers, the multiple 
regression analysis and neural network analysis are used to assess the effectiveness of the 
proposed indicators. The spatial distribution of hillside disasters is also statistically analyzed 
to verify the randomness and uniformity of hillside disasters. 
Key Words: Geographic Information System, Slope Disasters, Statistical Analysis 
九十八年電子計算機於土木水利工程應用研討會   
 
 
型態[3]。本研究歷史災害點位之空間分析
即採用第三種：空間點分佈模型。 
3.1 Quadrant Analysis 
利用 Quadrant Analysis（樣方分析）
分析山坡地歷史災害事件的空間分佈是否
為均勻分佈時，本研究將此空間均分為五
等分，如圖 2 所示。 
2759000
2765000
2771000
2777000
2783000
2789000
295000 317000
TWD67_X
TW
D
67
_
Y
 
圖 2 將台北市坡地歷史災害分為五區進
行空間分析 
 首先計算平均每個分區發生災害事件
數：  
 198.8
5
994
K
NE ===   (1) 
其中 
=E 平均每個分區災害事件數 
=N 實際山坡地歷史災害事件總數 
=K 分區總數   
得到平均每區發生災害事件數後，再
計算 2χ（自由度為 2−= κν ）如表 1 所示。
本研究於統計測試選擇 05.0=α ，進一步
比較 2χ 與 )05.0(2 =αχ ，其中 )05.0(2 =αχ
代表 95%信賴水準下的 2χ 測試的理論
值，如果 2χ 大於 )05.0(2 =αχ ，則表示實
際觀測到的點分佈與理論的分佈模式存在
顯 著 的 差 異 ； 反 之 若 2χ 小 於
)05.0(2 =αχ ，則代表需要更多的資料和數
據才能驗證。 
 119.319)(
1
2
2
=
−
=∑
=
k
i
i
E
EOχ  (2) 
其中 =iO 各分區實際點數 
表 1 Quadrant Analysis 整理表 
 Number of Points (Oi-E)^2/E 
1 74 78.345 
2 289 40.926 
3 265 22.044 
4 315 67.920 
5 51 109.884 
Total 994 319.119 
接著進行統計檢定，令 0H 為均勻分
佈， aH 為非均勻分佈如下： 
H0: Uniform 
Ha: Non-uniform 
Test Statistic: 
 119.3192 =χ  (3) 
Rejection Region: 
 32 =−= Kdf  (4) 
查表得： 
 81.7205.0 =χ  (5) 
 81.7119.319 205.0
2
=>= χχ  (6) 
因此拒絕 H0，接受 Ha，在信心水準
為 95%的情況下， 2χ 測試的實際值遠大於
其均勻分佈的理論值，此結果表示台北市
山坡地歷史災害事件發生的空間分佈不是
均勻的，且特性非常顯著。 
3.2 Nearest-Neighbor Analysis 
 圖 3 為不分區的台北市山坡地災害點
分佈圖，本研究利用 Nearest-Neighbor 
Analysis 及標準常態分佈 Z test，驗證台北
市山坡地歷史災害點位是否為隨機分佈。 
九十八年電子計算機於土木水利工程應用研討會   
 
 
表 2 利用 12 項指標與坡地災害事件迴歸
結果 
 
 
圖 4 台北市綜合指標與山坡地歷史災害事
件套疊圖（新 12 項指標） 
 
圖 5 台北市綜合指標與山坡地歷史災害事
件套疊圖（舊 12 項指標） 
4.2 類神經網路分析 
本研究也利用倒傳遞類神經網路分
析山坡地災害評估指標與山坡地歷史災
害事件之關聯，使用四層神經元（一層輸
入層、一層輸出層及兩層隱藏層）並分別
使用線性正規法及類別法加以分析，其結
果如圖 6 所示（判定係數為 0.575）。台北
市山坡地歷史災害事件皆發生於推估將有
災害事件發生之區域，坡地災害事件發生
密集處皆分佈在推估次數高的區域，與實
際狀況吻合，由圖 6 可得知，坡地災害事
件的發生與其發生位置與當地之災害評估
指標有很高的關聯性，因此將來可藉由此
坡地災害次數推估圖，加強坡地災害潛勢
較高之區域的水土保持工作，以減少未來
坡地災害次數的發生。 
 
圖 6 坡地災害推估次數與山坡地歷史災害
事件套疊圖 
五、結論 
本研究之結論如下： 
[1] 本研究由沈哲平[1]台北市山坡地歷
史 災 害 事 件 次 數 之 826 筆
（1959-2007）新增 168 筆成為 994 筆
（1959-2008），將 12 項災害評估指標
進行迴歸，所得結果之判定係數也因
山坡地歷史災害事件數目增加而提
高。 
[2] 本研究將沈哲平[1]所使用農委會所
公布之土地利用圖層加入台北市都
市計畫分區圖，以彌補當初研究區
域中土地利用資料的不足，兩個圖
層套疊，於兩圖層交接處取其較大
研究區域 台北市 台北市 
指標類別 新土地利用 新順向坡 
舊土地利用 
舊順向坡 
判定係數 R2 0.288 0.264 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99 年 8 月 1 日 
一、參加會議經過 
我從上海轉機抵達長沙機場，為節省車資乃搭乘機場叫客的私家車，當司機不
走直達的高速公路而走鄉間小徑，我當下即知犯了錯誤，待司機東奔西跑將同車其
他人送抵目的地，最後將我送到會議飯店時已經花了兩、三倍以上的時間，還試圖
加收我的車資。後來在會議期間遇到其他大陸的學者，方知避免被敲竹槓的方式唯
有撂幾句湖南土話，可惜我有機會卻未學會這項語言技能。不過，被司機載著到處
亂跑也有好處，我因此而見識到破落頹圮的鄉間、熱鬧擁擠的長沙市區、以及「實
現跨越式發展」卻有著詩情畫意名字的星沙區。回程時不敢再犯同樣的錯誤，請飯
店叫車送我直達機場。 
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-027-095 
計畫名稱 植生邊坡分析模型建立及根系強度試驗（II） 
出國人員
姓名 陳偉堯 
服務機構
及職稱 臺北科技大學土木系 
會議時間 99 年 5 月 11 日至 99 年 5 月 12 日 會議地點 Changsha, China 
會議名稱 
(中文)2010 智慧型計算技術和自動化國際會議 
(英文)2010 International Conference on Intelligent Computation 
Technology and Automation 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)使用粒子群從點雲重建樹幹 
(英文)Reconstructing Tree Trunks from Point Clouds using PSO 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
