以全像式干涉術檢驗微扭轉鏡面元件之設計
“Examine the Design of the Micro Torsion-Mirror Device Using Holographic Interferometry”
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-211-024
執行期間：95年 8月 1日 至 96年 7月 31日
主持人：高維新 華梵大學機電工程學系副教授
一、中文摘要
本研究將設計及製作一創新的微十字形
扭轉鏡面元件，該元件的動態特性上具有兩種
共振模態去耦合的效果，當微扭轉鏡面被激發
產生共振，其微十字形結構的短樑所產生的扭
轉模態所對應頻率，與長樑所產生的彎曲模態
所對應頻率的比值，可去除薄膜厚度因子的影
響。透過去耦合的頻率比，可直接得到材料的
機械性質-卜松比。在設計分析上，使用目前
最新的微機電系統設計軟體COMSOL，分析微
扭轉鏡面之動態設計。製程中包含面型微細加
工與體型微細加工技術，並大量使用乾、濕蝕
刻技巧。在微扭轉鏡面的動態響應量測上，使
用全像式電子斑點干涉術，利用波形產生器以
電極探針或激振微十字形結構，在即時振動量
測上可獲得1 GHz 以內具有相移的振幅條紋
影像；在數值振動量測上可繪出頻率10 MHz
以下微十字形扭轉鏡面元件的全場模態響應
圖，解析度高達1nm，並且不需精準量測薄膜
的厚度，易於快速量測共振頻率，達到非破壞
量測的目的。
英文摘要
In this project, the design and fabrication of
the micro torsion-mirror device is purposed. The
decoupled vibration modes are found in the
analysis of the dynamic responses of the device.
The torsion vibration mode is constructed in the
short beam of the device and the bending
vibration mode is obtained in the long beam of
the device when the micro torsion-mirror device
is excited. The Poisson’s ratio of the materials of 
the device can be defined by using the ratio of
the corresponding frequencies and the thickness
of the device can be deleted in the term of the
ratio. In the analysis of design of the micro
device, the advanced design package COMSOL
is used to multi-investigate the processes of
fabrication. The fabrication process includes
bulk and surface micromachining, and the rich
experiences of using dry and wet etching. With
real time vibration measurements, the display of
the amplitude fringes with phase shifting in the
frequency blow 1GHz can be shown, while with
the numerical vibration measurements, the full
field of each mode in the frequency below 10
MHz can be obtained. The resolution can be
achieved to 1 nm. It is easy and fast to measure
the resonant frequencies without measuring the
thickness of the thin films precisely and to
achieve the purpose of nondestructive measure-
ment.
二、計畫的緣由與目的
製作出效能優良、可靠度高、穩定性好的
微機電元件，要重新發展一套專門針對薄膜材
料的量測技術，以確切掌握微機電元件在經過
複雜的製程步驟之後的各項表現，進一步改善
各項缺點達到最佳化的設計。對於等向、線彈
性材料實際分析時，需要三個非獨立參數—楊
13. RIE去除
其正面之
Si3N4與 SiO2
薄膜，呈現亮
鏡面之型態。
微扭轉鏡面製程完成圖
Si SiO2 Si3N4 AZP4620
圖一 製程步驟流程圖
微扭轉鏡面製程實體圖如圖二所示，中間
橫長樑由上下兩短樑所連接，周圍為固定不動
邊界，整個結構上下左右對稱，長樑樑長為 A，
長樑樑寬為 a，短樑樑長為 B，短樑樑寬為 b，
整個結構由薄膜而製成，結構的厚度為 t，而
且符合長寬比為
短樑長樑 b
B
a
A 







 之設計規則。
圖二 微扭轉鏡面製程實體圖
本論文實際製程設計出長寬比為 1比 8的尺
寸，此次設計之尺寸長樑樑長 A為 640μm，長
樑樑寬 a為 80μm，短樑樑長 B為 320μm，短
樑樑寬 b為 40μm，厚度為25μm；微扭轉鏡面
為單晶矽材料， Si[100]之楊氏係數為
165GPa，卜松比為 0.22，密度為 2330 3m
kg 。
首先使用 COMSOL電腦輔助分析套裝軟體分
析微扭轉鏡面。經過前處理器、求解、後處理
器等三個求解過程後，可於後處理器部份獲得
微扭轉鏡面的各個共振模態及相對應之自然
頻率值，本模擬分析結果之第一和第二模態模
擬圖分別如圖三及圖四所示。
圖三 微扭轉鏡面之第一模態模擬圖
(COMSOL, 38.36 kHz)
圖四 微扭轉鏡面之第二模態模擬圖
(COMSOL, 74.84 kHz)
模態量測實驗部分，以全像式雷射顯微量測
系統與白光閃頻動態量測系統針對微扭轉鏡
面作自然頻率與模態振型量測。以全像式雷射
顯量測系統量測之第一和第二個全場模態圖
結果，如圖五及圖六所示。此外，以白光閃頻
動態量測系統所得到的第一和第二個全場模
態圖，如圖七及圖八所示。
赴國外研究心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 95－2221－E－211－024
計畫名稱 以全像式干涉術檢驗微扭轉鏡面元件之設計
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
高維新 華梵大學 機電工程學系 副教授
出國時間地點 民國 95 年 8 月 2 日起至 95 年 8 月 16 日
國外研究機構 瑞士蘇黎士大學
工作記要：
Vibration Simulation and Experiment of the Damped DVD Burner
Wei - Hsin Gau and Chen -Yuan Liu
Department of Mechatronic Engineering,
Huafan University
Abstract
The frequency responses of the damped DRW-L08 DVD burner are examined and compared by using methods of
computer simulation and experiment. Effects of the repeated translation motion of optical pick-up on the spindle motor
are also examined by using the simulation method. In the analysis of this investigation, four corners between the
Mecha and the base are connected by nine different specifications of dampers and the effect of dampers on the vibration
of the burner is investigated. In the analysis of simulation, in accordance with the specification of twelve parts of burner
are built by Pro/E software, and then the assembled computer model of burner is exported into dynamic simulation
analysis software ADAMS. Parameters of geometry, degrees of freedom of parts, parameters of damper including
coefficients of damping and spring are identified and the frequency responses can be simulated in ADAMS. In the
analysis of experimental measurement, the acceleration of spindle motor and related frequency responses can be
obtained by using the two channels closed-loop vibration measurement system. The result obtained using the
experimental method is compared with result using the simulation method. It shows that the error of the resonant
frequency of nine kinds of specifications damper in the burner is within 3.81%, while the error of acceleration is within
5.03%. Especially, the most approximate result with the simulation and experiment is the white damper. The
recommend damper in the design of the DVD burner is black damper because the resonant frequency with black
damped burner is the highest and the related acceleration is the minimum.
Key words : damped burner, frequency response, computer simulation, two channels closed-loop vibration
measurement, resonant frequency
