2中文摘要
利用高 c 軸取向氮化鋁作為緩衝層於鑽石基板上成長磊晶氮化鎵是一個有吸引力的
LED 的散熱裝置應用。在這項研究中，（B, Al)N 薄膜層用於降低鑽石基板與氮化鋁間的
晶格差異。X 射線光電子能譜（XPS）結果顯示：硼含量隨射頻濺射功率增加而增加。且經
由 XRD 結果分析計算得到的（B, Al)N 薄膜晶格常數小於氮化鋁，顯示較小的硼原子取代
鋁原子於 AlN 結構中的位置。而（B, Al)N 薄膜沈積於鑽石基板上的 TEM 剖面結果發現其
結構不斷變化，從無特定方向性奈米晶粒進而成長為 c 軸取向微米尺度。因為鑽石有一個
較（B, Al)N 薄膜更為緊密之晶格，因此初步沉積承受巨大的壓應力，從而無法形成較大
粒徑的晶相。因此在鑽石和（B, Al)N 薄膜界面的薄膜則是形成奈米大小且較無方向性的
晶粒，當遠離界面處，由於應力獲得釋放，進而成長為微米尺度 c 軸取向結構，擇優取向
的結構極容易受到濺射參數的影響。本研究也利用氮氣濃度，基板溫度和基板偏壓等參數
的調整，結果發現也可以降低界面處奈米顆粒結構層的厚度。且當奈米顆粒層厚度降低時，
（B, Al)N 薄膜即具有較氮化鋁薄膜高品質的 c 軸取向結構，更適合用於鑽石基板上成長
磊晶氮化鎵。
中文關鍵字：氮化鋁、鑽石、氮化鎵、奈米顆粒、c軸取向
4In order to make the polycrystalline diamond suitable for growth of an epitaxial layer, a buffer
layer should be used to convert the random orientation of the diamond grains into a preferred
orientation for epitaxial growth of GaN.
An ideal buffer layer will have similar crystal structure and similar atomic size with the
joining layer. Generally, GaN growth on sapphire substrate includes an AlN buffer layer,
which is well aligned to the c-axis by adjusting process parameters [3-5]. In case of GaN
growth on polycrystalline diamond, a c-axis AlN layer was also used as a buffer layer because
of the lower mismatch with GaN layers. Recent research of AlN films mainly focuses on
precise control of the (002) c-axis textures which are perpendicular to the substrate by process
parameters such as distance between substrate and target, N2 gas ratio and deposited power
[6,7]. However, there is large atomic size difference between the aluminum atoms of the AlN
buffer layer and the carbon atoms of a diamond substrate. The difference of atomic size will
cause defects (dislocations) and the decrement of c-axis preferential orientation for AlN layers.
A buffer layer of wurtzite AlN may be deposited on polished diamond films by doping with
small boron atoms. Boron nitride (BN) can take two phases of a low pressure phase (h-BN)
and a high pressure phase (w-BN, c-BN) according to the conditions of synthesis [8].
Wurtzitic AlN and w-BN are identical in crystal structure so the bonding between them is
almost seamless. The atomic size of boron is between carbon and aluminum so that it can
serve to adjust the variation of interface atomic size effectively. Noreika and Francombe [9]
produced single-phase B-Al-N thin films by reactive sputtering and suggested boron
substitution on aluminum sites or by the formation of Al-B compounds. The same results are
also reported by Edgar [10]. Therefore the (Al,B)N mixed crystals can substantially reduce
the lattice constant with a high degree of preferred orientation along <002>. Such a lattice can
pave the way for the growth of GaN single crystal for making LED devices. In this case, the
LED will contain a built-in heat spreader for high power applications, such as for high
brightness back lighting as required for illuminating LCD TV screens.
In this study, an aluminum target was sputtered by DC and a boron target, by RF in vacuum
6power resulted in the variation of both B and Al content in the (B, Al)N films.
The Al, B, N and O concentrations in (B, Al)N films were also determined by XPS and the
results are presented in Fig. 1. In order to obtain the practical values of the (B, Al)N films
composition, AlN and BN as standard stoichiometric samples were used. However, the value
had about 1% error. The nitrogen content and an oxidation status at the surface of the film
could be shown in Fig.1. The surface oxidation could not be avoided and this situation caused
the surface nitrogen content far away from 50 at. % (stoichiometric (B, Al)N). Fig. 1 also
showed that the relative concentration of B and Al content was in accordance with the result
of SIMS analysis. The range of B content was from 1 to 6 at. % when RF power controlled
from 50 to 200 W in Fig. 1. It also showed that the sum of B and Al amount was almost the
same and the value maintained 50 at. %. Edgar et al. suggested that the single-phase
AlN-(w-BN) alloy was formed at low BN content (lower than 10 at. %), but the phase
separation occurs for higher BN content [10]. Therefore this phenomenon might explain B
atom substitution for Al positions in AlN films to form a single phase.
Figure 2 showed a -2X-ray diffraction pattern of pure AlN deposited on diamond
substrate. Only (002) diffraction peak was presented in the pattern which means the films
were highly aligned with the c-axis perpendicular to the substrate. All of various B content in
(B,Al)N films had the same result. With the addition of B to AlN to form (B,Al)N films, no
X-ray diffraction peaks of BN were observed and the structure of AlN kept the preferred
c-axis orientated state. However, there are two noticeable effects in the X-ray diffraction
pattern of the films. The broadening of peak width and a shift in the peak positions to greater
angles follow the addition of B to AlN. The peak broadening was probably due to greater
structure disorder (less texturing degrees) in the film compared with pure AlN. The peak shift
may be due to the substitution of smaller B atoms at Al positions.
Figure 3 showed the c-lattice and a-lattice constant change of deposited films decreasing
with increasing RF power (B content). And there was a large difference of lattice constant of
pure bulk AlN and the measured value in Fig. 3 (0W). The c-lattice constant of pure AlN film
8temperature, nitrogen concentration and bias voltage.
Table 1 gives a summary of the deposition conditions and film characteristic of samples A
to D. With increasing the substrate temperature to 200 °C, the film structures of samples B to
D reveal a c-axis preferred orientation, indicating that the adatoms have more energy on the
substrate to form crystalline column structures. Furthermore, the total thickness of the
amorphous and randomly aligned layer decreases with the addition of substrate bias voltage
or the increase of N2 concentration while the FWHM and center of the AlN (002) peak
decreases and shifts to a high angle, respectively. These results were consistent with the
atomic peening model [12]. With the addition of substrate bias voltage, film bombardment
results in efficient atomic rearrangement and formation of film stress. High N2 concentration
will result in an increase in the bombardment of the film by neutral N atoms reflected with
high energy from the target, leading to the film with preferred (002) orientation and stress. In
addition, the film shows a decrease in the total thickness of the amorphous and randomly
aligned layer due to the atomic peening effect.
Fig. 6 shows the XRD patterns of the AlN and (Al, B)N films deposited on the
polycrystalline diamond with high N2 concentration. The thickness of the amorphous and
randomly aligned layer of the (Al, B) N film decreases from180 to 30 nm, and the FWHM
decreases from 0.3 to 0.2°, meaning that it has a higher film quality than the AlN film. This
result provides the understanding of the effect of using boron to shrink the lattice constant of
AlN, in which doping can shrink the lattice to make it closer to diamond, and thus enhances
the film quality.
Conclusions
The (B,Al)N films were deposited on diamond by co-sputtering system. Changing the RF
power (from 50 to 200 W) resulted in the variation of B content (from 1 to 6 at%) in the (B,
Al)N films, and the B content increased as the Al content decreased. The sum of B and Al
content was almost the same and the value remained at 50 at%. When the (B,Al)N films
formed, either films stress or formation of single phase wurtzite (B,Al)N films makes the
10
計畫成果自評
研究成果完成反應磁控濺鍍法參數(反應氣體比例、濺鍍能量、偏壓)分別對薄膜的結
構、成分與表面型態之間的影響及關係，並建立相互關係的資料庫，使後續鍍膜工作更
易達到最佳化及再現性。並瞭解硼於(B,Al)N薄膜的含量變化對於薄膜本身的影響，有
利於往後進一步成長C軸取向(B,Al)N薄膜薄膜。並且此研究包含探討薄膜成長於鑽石基
板之成長機制，並加以考慮反應磁控濺鍍法參數(反應氣體比例、濺鍍能量、偏壓)，找
出最佳化(B,Al)N薄膜成長於鑽石基板上，進而獲得較高薄膜品質之緩衝層，對於高品
質GaN磊晶之成長更加有利。
出版論文
[1] J.H Song, S. C. Wang, J.C. Sung, J.L. Huang, D. F. Lii, Thin Solid Films 517
(2009) 4753.
Table 1 The deposition conditions and film character for (Al, B)N films on polycrystalline
diamond.
sample
name
substrate
temperature
( )℃
substrate bias
voltage
(V)
sputtering gas
(Ar /N2)
(sccm)
DC/RF
power (W)
AlN (002)
peak FWHM / center
(°)
total thickness of an amorphous
and the randomly layers
(nm)
A RT No 10/20 300/50 - >4000
B 200 No 10/20 300/50 0.31/ 35.9 ~180
C 200 -120 10/20 300/50 0.26/ 36.1 <30
D 200 No 5/25 300/50 0.27/ 36.2 <30
(The substrate temperature arose to 80℃ after sputtering in RT sample)
12
0 50 100 150 200
4.90
4.92
4.94
4.96
4.98
5.00
RF Power of hBN target (w)
Bulk AlN
Bulk AlN
a-lattice
constant(A
)c
-la
tti
ce
co
ns
ta
nt
(A
)
c-lattice
a-lattice
3.04
3.06
3.08
3.10
3.12
3.14
Fig. 3 Variation of c and a lattice constant of deposited film with different RF power of h-BN
target.
Fig. 4 Cross-sectional TEM bright-field image of (B, Al)N films with 1 at % boron deposited on a
polycrystalline diamond substrate. Three selected-area electron-diffraction (SAD) patterns for
areas A (lower), B (middle), and C (top) of the film.
33°
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-230-002
計畫名稱 以(B,Al)N 薄膜作為多晶鑽石基板與高品質之 GaN 磊晶的緩衝層之研究
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
李丁福 — 正修科技大學電機系 教授
會議時間地點 98/5/30-98/6/6 加拿大溫哥華
會議名稱 8th Pacific Rim Conference on Ceramic and Glass Technology 國際會議
發表論文題目 Effects of substrate bias on the reactively sputtered ZrN diffusion barrier films
一、參加會議經過
個人於 5 月 26 日搭乘日本航空從高雄到東京，再轉搭美國西北航空班機經西雅圖，5 月
29 日經美加國界，赴加拿大溫哥華參加在 Hyatt Regency 舉辦的第八屆泛太平洋區域陶
瓷與玻璃科技學術會議，大會進行了五天包括 Opening Remarks and Plenary Session、邀
請、口頭、壁報等論文報告，及相關產業展覽等豐富內容。技術報告共分為 27 個討論會，
主要包括陶瓷介面之設計、模型、與摩擬，高等粉末製程及製造科技，Spark Plasma Method
法之材料製程與分析，奈米結構材料與系統，高等陶瓷鍍膜，生物醫用之奈米生物科技
與陶瓷，玻璃科學等等；個人所參與著作之論文為口頭報告，編在第九個討論會之
Dielectric and Optical coatings 部份，號碼為 PACRIM8- S09-031-2009, 時間是 6 月 3 日
9:20AM。會議之後，於 6 月 7 日離開加拿大，轉由美國西雅圖，搭 6 月 9 日西北航空
班機經到東京，再轉搭日本航空到高雄，完成一次圓滿的國際會議行程。
二、與會心得
此次會議除了從諸多口頭、壁報等論文中得到最新的陶瓷及玻璃科技知識以外，在
Plenary Speakers 的演講中，聽三位受邀專家在不同工作場，經多年的工作經驗，所發表
出來的知識均有相當特殊的成果與見地，足以作為個人今後研究與教學之參考與借鏡。
特別分述如下：
第一位是來自頗負盛名之美國康寧公司之副總經理 J.A. Miller Jr.，他介紹了康寧在
全球創新策略成功之因素以及尋求在玻璃與陶瓷工業方面各種潛在之發展契機。
第二位是由日本國家材料科學院與工程學會總額 Teruo Kishi，報告該國陶瓷技藝及其
未來挑戰，指出將專注在人力資源之發展與教育，促發卓越與網際工作中心，及研究成
果之商業化等三方面；以期在陶瓷材料中如超導體及氧化物電子陶瓷培養出創新總子，
就如目前日本生產之多層電容器即佔環球一半以上。總之就是要在新材料、獨特製程與
新觀念三方面獲得突破。
第三位是由佛羅里達大學之 Larry L. Hench 教授總結報告四十年來生物玻璃之發現及臨
