formaldehyde quantification applications [3-4]. Even
though the optical sensors are capable of
simultaneous samplings and have instantaneous
analyzing time, the associated optical arrangements
tend to be rather bulky and elaborate. In the last
decade, emerging MEMS and micro-machining
techniques have led to the development of
miniaturized sensing instrumentation that is capable
of accessing information at a micro scale level. Most
important, the functionality and reliability of these
micro sensors can be increased through their
integration with mature, logic IC technology or with
other sensors.
Recently, a NiO thin-film formaldehyde gas
sensor, created by dipping alumina substrates in a
nickel acetylacetoneate solution to form thin NiO
films of a thickness of 0.5 μm has be proposed by
Dirksen et al. 2001 [5]. It was found that the
conductivity of these films changed as the
formaldehyde concentration was varied at
temperatures ranging from 400 -600oC. At
approximately 3 μm, the sintered grain size was
rather large and was therefore expected to reduce the
sensitivity of the device, however, a linear
formaldehyde sensitivity of 0.825 mV ppm-1 was
attained at a temperature of 600oC. Although the
sensor demonstrated a high sensitivity, its detection
limit was 50 ppm, far higher than the prescribed
“maximum permissible long-term exposure” limit of 
0.1 ppm. Furthermore, the proposed sensor lacked an
integrated heating device capable of maintaining the
optimal working temperature of 600oC. Therefore,
the sensor operation required the use of an external
heater, which not only increased the bulk of the
sensor arrangement, but also increased its power
consumption. As a means of overcoming this
problem, Lee et al. 2005 and Lee et al. 2006 [6-7]
proposed two types of the formaldehyde gas sensors
integrated with a Pt micro-heater and Pt
inter-digitized electrodes (IDEs) above the NiO
sensing layer with different substrates and structures
to measure the resistance variation of the sensing
layers caused by formaldehyde oxidation at the oxide
surface. However, because most of the sensing area
of the formaldehyde gas sensor is covered by Pt
micro-heaters and IDES, it cannot effectively
accelerate formaldehyde oxidation to occur and this
varied the conductivity of the sensing layer. For this
reason, this study developed a new process for the
fabrication of an MEMS-based formaldehyde sensing
device comprising of a micro heater and electrodes
with Pt resistance heaters and a sputtered NiO/Al2O3
layer. The experimental data indicated that by
decreasing the thickness of the sensing layer in the
sputtering process and increasing the area of the
sensing layer contacting with the surrounding gas
and co-sputtered NiO/Al2O3 sensing layer,
significantly increased the sensitivities of the gas
sensor and improved its lowest detection limit
capabilities.
II. DESIGN
In this study, the proposed sensor integrated a
sensing layer, a heating device, and electrodes on the
substrate. The micro heater is integrated into the
sensor to provide instantaneous and precise
temperature control capabilities [8]. The electrodes
were fabricated to connect resistance meters for
measuring variations of the electrical conductibility
of the sensing layer. The grain size of the NiO/Al2O3
thin film is very nearly at the nanometer level, and
therefore both the sensitivity and the lowest sensing
limit of the device are enhanced due to the enlarged
area of the catalyst grains contacting with the
surrounding gas.
This study compares the effect of different areas
repeated to deposit and shape Pt micro heaters and
electrodes. Then a NiO sensing layer was
sputter-depositioned.
As shown in figure 3(a) and 3(b), the SEM
images of the NiO and NiO/Al2O3 thin film were
acquired after the sputtering deposition, respectively.
The deposited film was covered by a compact
granular structure with grains sized from 100 –300
nm in diameter. Fine grains and nanometer level
compact structured sensing layers could benefit from
the sensing performances obtained in this study.
Figure 2 Schematic illustration of the simplified
fabrication process of type A and type B.
(a)
(b)
Figure 3 SEM images showing the micrometer grain
size of sputtered NiO thin films and (b) co-sputtered
NiO/Al2O3 thin films.
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
The diffraction pattern of the NiO/Al2O3 sensing
layer was observed using an XRD measurement
system (XRD-6000, Shimadzu, Japan). The heating
performance of the micro-hotplate was investigated
using an IR thermometer (PT-3LF, OPTEX, Japan).
The sensing performance of the device was
characterized in a test chamber by using an LCR
meter (LCR 819, GW Instek, Taiwan) to record the
signal responses generated by the formaldehyde
concentration variations.
As shown in Figure 4, in order to compare the
effect of substrate temperatures and different areas of
the sensing layers, contacting with the surrounding
gas, presented two types of different fabrication
sequences with micro heaters and sensing layers to
measure the resistance variations by formaldehyde
gas oxidation at different work temperatures. The
slopes of the plotted lines representing the sensitivity
of the device and were found to be -0.137Ωppm-1 at
280oC, -0.12 Ωppm-1 at 215oC, and -0.104 Ωppm-1
at 150oC, respectively. The lowest detection limit of
the type A1500 sensor was determined to be 1.2 ppm at
280oC. As shown in Figure 5, a linear dependency
was also observed between the resistance and the
formaldehyde concentration at different sensor
temperatures. The sensitivity of the type B1500 were
found to be -0.335Ωppm-1 at 300oC, -0.293Ωppm-1
at 250oC, and -0.181 Ωppm-1 at 180oC, respectively.
The lowest detection limit of the type B1500 sensor
was determined to be 0.8 ppm at 280oC. From the
results obtained from types A1500 and B1500, it is clear
to see that the working temperatures of the substrate
increases as the sensitivity of the sensor increases.
The area of the sensing layer contacting with the
surrounding gas of type B is larger than type A, this
Figure 7 XRD diffraction patterns of NiO/Al2O3 thin
film.
Figure 8 The lowest detection limits of the sensor
type B500-NiO
Figure 9 The lowest detection limits of the sensor
type B500-NiO/Al2O3
Figure 10 The selectivity of the sensor type B500-NiO
Figure 11 The selectivity of the sensor type
B500-NiO/Al2O3
Figure 12 Response transient of the formaldehyde
gas sensor for type B500-NiO
Figure 13 Response transient of the formaldehyde
gas sensor for type B500-NiO/Al2O3
V. CONCLUSIONS
This study has successfully demonstrated a novel
self-heating formaldehyde gas sensor based on a thin
film of NiO sensing layers. A new fabrication process
has been developed in which the Pt micro-heater and
electrodes are deposited directly on the substrate and
the NiO thin film is deposited above on the micro
heater to serve as sensing layer. Pt electrodes are
formed below the sensing layer to measure the
electrical conductivity changes caused by
成效與貢獻
期刊論文發表(published, accepted and submitted)
1. Yu-Hsiang Wang, Chia-Yen Lee and Che-Ming Chiang, “A MEMS-based Air Flow Sensor
with a Free-Standing Micro-Cantilever Structure,” Sensors, 7, 2389-2401, 2007.
(corresponding author) (EI, SCI, Impact Factor = 1.373)
2. Lung-Ming Fu, Chia-Yen Lee, Ming-Huei Liao and Che-Hsin Lin, “Fabrication and testing
of high-performance detection sensor for capillary electrophoresis microchips,” Biomedical 
Microdevices, 10, 73-80, 2008. (EI, SCI, Impact Factor = 2.551) (corresponding author)
3. CY Lee, CL, Chang, CH Tai, CF Lin, Lung-Ming Fu, “Enhancing characteristics of gas 
sensors with NiO thin film,”Journal of Functional Materials and Devices, 14, 394-398,
2008. (EI)
4. CY Lee, CL Chang, CF Lin, CY Tseng, Lung-Ming Fu, “MEMS-based benzene gas sensor
with WO3 thin film,”Journal of Functional Materials and Devices, 14, 389-393, 2008.
(EI)
5. Chia-Yen Lee, Hsien-Tseng Chang , Hao-Jen Chen and Chih-Yung Wen, “A Planar 
Valveless Micro Impedance Pump for Micro-fluidic Systems,” Journal of Micromechanics
and Microengineering, 18, 1-9, 2008. (EI, SCI, Impact Factor = 2.499)
6. Chia-Yen Lee, Yu-Hsiang Wang, Tzu-Han Hsueh, Rong-Hua Ma, Lung-Ming Fu, Po-Cheng
Chou, “A Smart Flow Sensor for Flow Direction Measurement,” Advanced Materials 
Research, 47-50, 189-192, 2008. (EI)
7. Po-Cheng Chou, Che-Ming Chiang, Yeng-Yi Li, Chia-Yen Lee and Kuei-Feng Chang,
“National Ventilation Efficiency in Bedroom with Central-Pivoting Window,” Indoor and 
Built Environment, 17(2), 164-172, 2008. (EI, SCI, Impact Factor = 0.414)
8. Che-Ming Chiang, Chia-Yen Lee, Po-Cheng Chou, and Wen-Jen Hwang, “Solar Orientation
Measurement Systems with Integrated Solar Cels”, in press, the Journal of Advanced 
Engineering, 2008. (corresponding author) (EI)
9. Ming-Tsun Ko, Chia-Yen Lee and Mu-Tsun Lee, “A MEMS-based Benzene Gas Sensor
with WO3 Sensing Layer and Integrated Micro-hotplate,” in press, the Journal of Advanced 
Engineering, 2008. (corresponding author) (EI)
10. Rong-Hua Ma, Chia-Yen Lee, Yu-Hsiang Wang and Hao-Jen Chen,
“Microcantilever-based Weather Station for Temperature, Humidity and Flow Rate
Measurement,” in press, Journal of Microsystem Technologies, 2008. (corresponding author)
(EI, SCI, , Impact Factor = 0.720)
成果自評
(1) 研究成果與預期完成工作項目之比較
1. 預期: 感測電極的材料選擇
研究成果: 已完成
2. 預期: 感測層厚度與掺雜其他物質對感測器性能之影響
研究成果: 已完成
3. 預期: 建材有機逸散物微型感測器微型感測器與室內通風系統進行連鎖控制
研究成果: 已完成
4. 預期: 建立室內裝修殘餘苯類有機氣體量測與通風模型與實測
研究成果: 已完成
5. 預期: 對通風系統節能影響之評估
研究成果: 已完成
(2) 結語
本計畫研究內容與原計畫內容大致相符合，且執行成果達到預期目標，研究成果已發
表在國內外會議與學術論文上(請參考前頁成效與貢獻之論文發表) 。
本計畫所發展之微型VOCs氣體感測器具有以下優點: 1.高的靈敏度 2.高選擇性 3.
低消耗功率 4.強韌的結構 5. 製作便宜易與IC製程相容，將有助人類永續發展中之優質生
活空間(smart living space)之建立。
