1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
彈性製造之最佳控制 
Optimal Control of Flexible Manufacturing Systems 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 97-2221-E-004-009- 
執 行 期 限：97 年 8 月 1 日 至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：趙玉 政治大學資管系 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
一、中文摘要 
吾人提議改進混合線性規劃方法，就是先對基
本本虹吸管加入控制元件，再考慮對複合元件
加入控制元件。如此 (1)減輕列舉虹吸管的數
量 迅速成指數隨著網的大小增長的嚴重性。
(2) 減少接下混合線性規劃的執行次數。(3) 
避免重新調整控制弧。(4) 避免可達分析引起
的狀態爆炸問題。(5) 減少控制器的數量。(6) 
比二行程的方式可達更多狀態數。吾人進一步
將研討最佳化。 
關鍵詞:Petri 網，僵局， 控制，虹吸管，最
佳化 
Abstract 
In this work, we propose an approach to 
improve the mixed integer programming (MIP) 
method by adding monitors to each basic siphon 
and find conditions for a compound siphon to be 
already controlled.  This (1) relieves the problem 
of siphon enumeration which grows exponentially, 
(2) reduces the number of subsequent 
time-consuming mixed integer programming (MIP) 
iterations, (3) avoids the need to rearrange control 
arcs, (4) avoids the state-space explosion using 
reachability analysis, (5) reduce the number of 
monitors, and (6) achieve more number of states 
than the two-stage approach.  We will further 
investigate how to optimize. 
Key Words: Petri nets, deadlock, control, siphon, 
optimization 
二、緣由與目的 
Ezpeleta et al. proposed a class of PN called 
systems of simple sequential processes with 
resources (S3PR) [1]. Liveness can be enforced 
by adding a control place ⎯and associated 
arcs⎯ to each emptiable siphon S to prevent S 
from becoming empty of tokens. However, this 
method generally requires adding too many 
control places and arcs to the original Petri net 
model. Further, to avoid the generation of new 
SMS, Ezpeleta et al. [9] moved all output 
(called Type-2, or source) arcs of each VS to the 
output (called source) transition of the entry 
(called idle place) of input raw materials to limit 
their rate into the system, called all-sided, or 
SMSless approach. This may overly constrain 
the system so that many reachable states (6287, 
the same as that by Li et al. but with a lot more 
control elements) are no longer attainable. As a 
result, system throughput is reduced 
significantly.   
Li and Zhou [2,3] proposed simpler Petri 
net controllers based on the concept of 
elementary siphons (generally much smaller 
than the set of all emptiable siphons in large 
Petri nets) to minimize the new addition of 
3 
types of problematic siphons, and (4) identify 
the correct sequence of adding monitors to avoid 
redundant monitors. The work jas been accepted 
in [7]. 
In an earlier paper [8], we propose to 
synthesize elementary (dependent) siphons from 
resource (compound) circuits.  They are also 
called basic (compound) siphons. Several basic 
siphons make up a compound siphon.  We 
show that if all such basic siphons are controlled, 
so are most of the compound siphons.  The 
converse is not true; even though a compound 
siphon is controlled; all basic siphons remain 
uncontrolled and need monitors for each of 
them.  
We propose an approach to improve the MIP 
one by adding monitors to each basic siphon 
and find conditions for a compound siphon to be 
already controlled.  This (1) relieves the 
problem of siphon enumeration which grows 
exponentially, (2) reduces the number of 
subsequent time-consuming mixed integer 
programming (MIP) iterations, (3) avoids the 
need to rearrange control arcs, (4) avoids the 
state-space explosion using reachability 
analysis, (5) reduce the number of monitors, 
and (6) achieve more number of states than 
the two-stage approach. 
  We discover that (1) by removing all monitors 
with WC places in [6], the net remains live and 
maximally permissive and (2) all OC places and 
WC places are monitors for resource and 
mixture siphons, respectively. We have 
developed a theory to determine the sequence of 
adding monitors to avoid redundant monitors 
and the conditions where a WC place is 
redundant.  
   It has been assumed that any two strict 
minimal siphons intersect at most at a single 
resource place so that there are no weakly 
dependent siphons (where the controllability 
involves negative terms). It remains to be seen 
(a future research subject) whether the same 
conclusion can be extended to weakly dependent 
siphons. Further work should investigate how to 
avoid WC places or transform a WC place into 
an OC place when a WC place is not redundant. 
 
四、參考文獻 
[1] J. Ezpeleta, J. M. Colom, and J. Martinez, “A Petri net 
based deadlock prevention policy for flexible 
manufacturing systems,” IEEE Trans. Robot. 
Automat., vol. 11, pp. 173–184, Apr. 1995. 
[2] Z. Li and M. Zhou, “Elementary Siphons of Petri Nets 
and Their Application to Deadlock Prevention in 
Flexible Manufacturing Systems,” IEEE Trans. Syst., 
Man, Cybern. A., vol. 34, no. 1, Jan. 2004, pp. 
38-51. 
[3] Z. Li and M. Zhou, “Clarifications on the Definitions 
of Elementary Siphons in Petri Nets,” IEEE Trans. 
Syst., Man, Cybern., A: Systems and Humans, to 
appear, 2006. 
[4] Uzam M and  Zhou, MengChu, “An improved 
iterative synthesis approach for liveness enforcing 
supervisors of flexible manufacturing systems,” Int 
J Prod Res 44(10), pp.1987–2030, 2006. 
[5] Li, ZhiWu  and  Zhou, MengChu,  “Two-stage  
method  for  synthesizing liveness-enforcing 
supervisors for flexible manufacturing systems 
using Petri nets,” IEEE   Transactions on 
Industrial Informatics, vol. 2, no. 4, pp. 313-325, 
November, 2006. 
[6] Y.S. Huang, M.D. Jeng, X.L. Xie and D.H. Chung, 
“Siphon-based Deadlock Prevention Policy for 
Flexible Manufacturing Systems,” IEEE 
Transactions on System, Man, 
[7] D. Y. Chao, “Sequence of Control in S3PMR,” to 
appear in Comp. J., (British Computer Society). 
[8] Daniel Yuh Chao, “Computation of Elementary 
① 
出國報告（出國類別：（B）開會、談判） 
 
 
 
② 
赴西班牙參加 ETFA2009 INTERNATIONAL 
CONFERENCE 
 
 
 
 
 
                     ③ 
服務機關：國立政治大學資訊管理 
姓名職稱：趙玉 
派赴國家：西班牙 
出國期間：98 年 9 月 20 日至 98 年 9 月 25 日，共 6   日 
報告日期： 98 年 9 月 29 日 
封 面 樣 式 
國立政治大學發展國際一流大學及頂尖研究中心計畫 
出國成果報告書（格式） 
計畫編號1  執行單位2 商學院 
出國人員 趙玉 出國日期 98 年 9 月 20
日至 98 年 9 月 
25 日，共 6   
日 
出國地點3 Palma de Mallorca, Spain 出國經費4 55000.00 
2009 Emerging Technology and Factory Automation conference 在西班牙 Palma 島舉行. 由 IEEE 
Industrial Society 舉辦 本次會議特別注能源問題探討 集中一天在西班牙 Tirmes(再生能源中心) 
舉行.了解到西班牙是最佳風力及太陽能運用國家 建設廣大分散式電力格系統 因此深刻了解到
其中問題在於如何作有效的分散式管理 其中 voltage dip (電壓突降)是一嚴重問題 一法國學者
討論如何作其模擬 其他問題是 power electronics and storage system. 接著參觀了附近西班牙自己
設計建造的垃圾發電系統 (台灣只是分類) 由此可見西班牙善於自己設計建造自動化系統 次日
本人參與論文發表(1 MD-000531 Controllability for Siphons in S3PGR2Daniel Y Chao) 得到一些
研究新主意  
 
 
2009 Emerging Technology and Factory Automation conference 在西班牙 Palma 島舉行. 由 IEEE 
Industrial Society 舉辦 本次會議特別注能源問題探討 集中一天在西班牙 Tirmes(再生能源中心) 
舉行.了解到西班牙是最佳風力及太陽能運用國家 建設廣大分散式電力格系統 因此深刻了解到
其中問題在於如何作有效的分散式管理 其中 voltage dip (電壓突降)是一嚴重問題 一法國學者
討論如何作其模擬 其他問題是 power electronics and storage system. 接著參觀了附近西班牙自己
設計建造的垃圾發電系統 (台灣只是分類) 由此可見西班牙善於自己設計建造自動化系統 本人
停留期間 未曾發現任何蚊子(台灣差遠 不利觀光) 有特殊垃圾車自動收取鐵桶內的垃圾  
西班牙漢堡約是美國兩倍 台灣四倍 雖是海島 卻不見海鮮餐館 及農園果樹 難怪物價較貴 多
數人 愁眉不展 不如台灣 
次日之後 本人參與論文發表(1 MD-000531 Controllability for Siphons in S3PGR2Daniel Y Chao) 
得到一些研究新主意 (automatic implementation, performance evaluation, GMEC modeling, etc) 
本人在回程中 瀏覽了會議所發的資料 包括 power electronics 之介紹及其電路 只是了解大概
離研究貢獻 還差了一段 
 
                                                 
1 單位出國案如有 1 案以上，計畫編號請以頂大計畫辦公室核給之單位計畫編號 + 「-XX（單位自編 2 位出國
案序號）」型式為之。如僅有 1 案，則以頂大計畫單位編號為之即可（出國人員免填）。 
2 執行單位係指頂大計畫單位編號對應之單位（出國人員免填）。 
3 出國地點請寫前往之國家之大學、機關組織或會議名稱。 
4 出國經費指的是實際核銷金額，單位以元計。 
