 本計畫所設計的電路皆會以 130 nm 或 90 nm 的 CMOS 製作成晶片並加
以量測，以驗證所發展的技術的可行性。 
關鍵詞：類比數位轉換、數位類比轉換、混合訊號式積體電路、奈米 CMOS。 
 
Abstract 
This project is to develop the analog-to-digital (A/D) conversion and 
digital-to-analog (D/A) conversion techniques in nano-scale CMOS technologies.  
The nano-scale MOS transistors are tiny and fast, but they can only operate in low 
voltage and have low gain.  It is vital to utilize the advantages of the scaled devices 
to compensate for their unfavorable properties.  In this project, digital circuits are 
used to improve the performances of analog circuits. 
The comparator-based Flash A/D architecture can achieve the highest conversion 
rate for a given technology.  A 6-Bit 2-GS/s Flash analog-to-digital converter (ADC) 
will be designed, in which a new comparator design can reduce the total power 
dissipation.  The subranging A/D architecture is a variation of the Flash architecture.  
It is often employed to design moderate-resolution ADCs, but at the expense of 
reduced sampling rate.  A 10-Bit 1-GS/s subranging ADC will be designed.  The 
linear-amplifier-based pipelined A/D architecture can be used to design 
high-resolution ADCs.  However, the need for linear amplification further reduces 
the sampling rate.  A 14-Bit 200-MS/s Pipelined ADC will be designed.  The 
difficulties caused by component mismatches are resolved by using digital signal 
processing.  Furthermore, the time-interleaved (TI) A/D architecture can increase the 
overall sampling rate of an ADC.  The accompanying problems of inter-channel gain, 
offset, and gain mismatches will be resolved by using digital means in this project.  
An 8-channel 6-Bit 16-GS/s TI ADC will be designed by assembling 8 channels of the 
6-Bit 2-GS/s Flash ADC previously mentioned. 
The current-switching D/A architecture will be studied in this project.  In 
high-speed digital-to-analog converter (DAC), the circuit design of the 
current-switching elements are critical.  A 6-Bit 4-GS/s DAC and a 6-Bit 8-GS/s 
DAC will be designed。For high-resolution DAC, the design considerations of 
component mismatches usually make the circuit complex and slow.  A 14-Bit 
500-MS/s DAC will be design, in which the mismatch problem will be resolved by 
using digital signal processing. 
Clock generators with corresponding frequencies and phase resolution are 
required for both the ADCs and the DACs.   A clock generator will be designed for 
the 8-channel 6-Bit 16-GS/s TI ADC.  It has a clock frequency of 2 GHz, and has 8 
different outputs with digitally-adjustable phases.  For high-resolution applications, 
the emphases are on jitter measurement and low-jitter design.  A 200–500 MHz 
low-jitter clock generator will be designed. 
All circuits designed in this project will be fabricated using 130nm or 90nm 
CMOS technologies.  Chips will be characterized to validate the design techniques 
developed in this project. 
Key Words: Analog-to-Digital Conversion, Digital-to-Analog Conversion, 
Mixed-Signal Integrated Circuits, Nano-Scale CMOS. 
2 
 三、執行成果 
本計畫將研究在奈米 CMOS 製程下的混合訊號式積體電路設計技術，將利
用數位信號處理（DSP）的方法來彌補先進製程所造成的非理想效應，進而完成
高效能的混合信號式積體電路。所發展的技術會以「晶片效能指標」（Chip 
Performance Index, CPI）來衡量其進步性，而所開發的晶片會以追求最佳 CPI 
（類似功能）為目標。 
以比較器為主的 Flash 架構可設計出最高速的類比數位轉換器（ADC）。本
計畫將會設計一個 6-Bit 2-GS/s Flash ADC。其中新型的比較器設計可以降低功率
消耗。Subranging 架構是 Flash 架構的變形，可用來設計較高解析度的 ADC，但
會犧牲速度。本計畫將會設計一個 10-Bit 1-GS/s Subranging ADC。以線性放大器
為主的 Pipelined 架構，可用來設計高解析度 ADC。但是因為使用了線性放大器，
速度會較慢。本計畫將會設計一個 14-Bit 200-MS/s Pipelined ADC。而元件的不
匹配問題將以數位訊號處理的方式解決。另外，時序交錯 (Time-Interleaved. TI) 
的架構可用來提升整體的取樣頻率。而 TI 架構中有關 Gain、Offset、Phase 不匹
配的問題，本計畫將提出數位訊號處理的解決方式。本計畫將利用前述的 6-Bit 
Flash ADC 來組合一個 8-channel 6-Bit 16-GS/s TI ADC。 
在數位類比轉換器（DAC）部分，本計畫將以 Current-Switching 架構為主。
在高速的 DAC 中，Current-Switch 元件會是電路設計的重點。本計畫將會設計一
個 6-Bit 4-GS/s 及一個 6-Bit 8-GS/s 的 DAC。若要提升解析度，則必須解決元件
的不匹配問題，而電路會因此趨於複雜並速度減緩。本計畫將會設計一個 14-Bit 
500-MS/s DAC，並且以數位訊號處理的方式解決元件匹配問題。 
無論是 ADC 或是 DAC 都需要有相對頻率及相對相位精確度的時脈產生
器。本計畫將會設計一個用於 8-channel 6-Bit 16-GS/s TI ADC 的時脈產生器。其
共有 8 組相位不同的輸出，頻率可達 2 GHz，並且可以微調相位。在高解析度方
面，如何量測並降低時脈抖動會是研究重點。本計畫將設計 200 MHz 到 500 MHz
的低抖動時脈產生器。 
本計畫所設計的電路皆會以 130 nm 或 90 nm 的 CMOS 製作成晶片並加以量
測，以驗證所發展的技術的可行性。 
以下各小節將簡述本計畫的一些成果。 
4 
 A single SHA is used in this TI ADC.  Unlike the following A/D channels, the 
SHA is required to operate at the ADC's full sampling rate.  To mitigate the 
performance requirements for the SHA's opamp, a precharged SHA configuration is 
adopted [1].  Fig. 3A.2 shows the circuit schematic of the SHA along with the CHP1 
and CHP2 choppers.  The combination of precharging and output capacitor coupling 
relaxes the opamp's dc gain requirement, reduces the opamp's output voltage swing, 
and decreases overall settling time.  The B1 and B2 unity-gain buffers are used to 
reduce the effect of mismatch between CHP1 and CHP2.  They also reduce the 
SHA’s input capacitance. 
 
 
Fig 3A.3: Digital output encoding and correction. 
Fig. 3A.3 shows the digital output encoding and correction block diagram for 
each A/D channel.  The calibration processor executes the calibration procedures and 
updates calibration data constantly.  The channel encoder calculates A/D output by 
using the pipeline stages' digital outputs.  Fig. 3A.3 also contains functions to 
equalize the conversion gains and offsets of the two A/D channels. 
 
 
Fig 3A.4: Micrograph of the ADC prototype. 
The ADC prototype was fabricated in a 0.18-um 1P6M 1.8-V CMOS technology 
with MIM capacitors.  Fig. 3A.4 shows the ADC's chip micrograph.  Chip core area 
is 4.3x4.3mm2.  Digital circuits occupy 12% of the total area.  Operating at 
120MS/s sampling rate under a single 1.8V supply, the analog block consumes a total 
6 
 3B. Pipelined ADC Calibration 
The digital calibration technique we developed for pipelined ADC [1] extends 
the output signal range of pipeline stage under calibration.  Moreover, this 
correlation-based scheme inevitably requires long calibration time.  The above 
deficiencies can be eliminated by our new calibration technique [2]. 
 
 
Fig 3B.1: A split-capacitor SC pipeline stage with redundant comparators. 
Fig. 3B.1 shows the modified pipelined stage.  Three additional comparators are 
added to estimate the amplitude of the stage’s input. Based on this information, the 
calibration random sequence can be generated such that the injected calibrating signal 
does not go beyond the nominal output range of a pipeline stage. 
 
 
Fig 3B.2: Split-channel ADC architecture for background calibration. 
Fig. 3B.2 shows the proposed split-channel ADC architecture that can be used to 
reduce the calibration time.  The ADC is formed by splitting the original 
single-channel ADC into two identical parallel A/D channels.  Both the A channel 
and the B channel quantize the same analog input.  Their separate outputs are then 
combined to produce the final digital output. 
Fig. 3B.3 shows the block diagram of the calibration processor of Fig. 3B.2.  
The calibration time can be greatly reduced by comparing the digital output streams 
from both channels and then removing the input-related signal at the inputs of 
calibration data extractors and offset estimators.  The offset correction (OC) and gain 
correction (GC) are employed to equalize the transfer characteristics of the two A/D 
8 
 3C. Pipeline Stage Nonlinearity Calibration 
 
 
Fig 3C.1: A split-capacitor SC pipeline stage modified for nonlinearity calibration. 
We have extended our calibration technique to correct A/D conversion errors due 
to the nonlinear characteristics of pipelined stages.  The stage’s nonlinearity is 
mainly caused by opamp’s finite gain and output range.  The split-capacitor SC stage 
of Fig. 3B.1 is modified as the one shown in Fig. 3C.1.  The Cs,1 capacitor is further 
split into Cs,1a and Cs1b; the Cs,2 capacitor is further split into Cs,2a and Cs2b.  Two 
random sequences, qa and qb, are connected either capacitor pair. 
 
 
Fig 3C.2: Background nonlinearity calibration scheme. 
Fig. 3C.2 shows the background nonlinearity calibration scheme.  The analog 
output from a nonlinear pipeline stage is digitized by a back-end z-ADC.  A 
calibration processor (CP) is used to estimate pipeline stage’s nonlinearity in terms of 
Taylor’s expansion series.  The Dz digital code is corrected by the CP before being 
used in Do,j encoding. 
Fig. 3C.3 shows the CP’s block diagram.  The pipeline stage’s nonlinearity is 
modeled by a 3rd-order harmonic term with b3 coefficient.  The CP can estimate b3 
10 
 3D. A CMOS 6-Bit 2-GS/s Flash ADC 
Flash 架構之 ADC 主要由比較器陣列(comparator array)與編碼器(encoder)組
成，如 Fig. 3D.1 所示。 Flash ADC 將類比訊號數位化的過程集中在一個時序週
期內完成，不需處理殘餘量(residue)的問題，在高速應用的場合於具有不可取代
的優勢。 
 
Fig. 3D.1 
Flash ADC 的關鍵元件比較器，若要求其在高速運作下仍具有高精確度，則
其能耗必然倍增。針對這樣電路先天上的限制，我們發展出具有高速、高精確度、
低能耗的「背景校正式比較器」[3]。 
 
Fig 3D.2 
 
Fig. 3D.3 
如 Fig. 3D.1 所示，在一個傳統比較器的前後分別串聯「切換開關組
(chopper)」，並由一隨機亂數 q 控制。此切換開關組可隨機正接或反接比較器，
12 
 3E. Timing-Skew Calibration for Time-Interleaved ADCs 
We develop the method of timing skew calibration technique by using zero 
crossing detection. Fig3E.1 shows the proposed architecture for multi-phase timing 
skew calibration. The multi-phase clock generator generates M phases to sample the 
reference signal x(t). The timing-skew calibration processor will analyze the statistic 
information of sampled data x1[k], x2[k], …,xM[k], then evaluates the timing skew 
errors and generates the controlled signals T1[k], T2[k], …,TM[k] to control the buffer 
B1,B2,…,BM to minimize the timing skew errors. 
 
Fig3E.1: The proposed architecture for multi-phase timing-skew calibration. 
 
Fig3E.2: A pseudo zero-crossing detector. 
Fig3E.2 shows the pseudo zero crossing (ZC) detector, the sampled signal xj]k] 
and xj+1[k] are evaluated by the comparators and then filtered by digital filter 1-z-1. 
The comparators’ offsets are removed by the 1-z-1 operation, resulting in a reduced 
ZC detection sensitivity to offsets. The output zj[k]=1 if rj[k] × rj+1[k]≦0, otherwise 
zj[k]=0. The probability of zj[k]=1, Pzj,j+1, is proportional to the timing spacing 
between two sampling phases Φj and Φj+1 if the bandwidth of x(t) is less than half rate 
of Φj. Therefore, By comparing Pzj,j+1 and Pzj+1,j+2, one can determine whether the 
sampling interval between xj[k] and xj+1[k] is larger or smaller than the sampling 
interval between xj+1[k] and xj+2[k].  
14 
  
Fig3E.4: An 8-channel time-interleaved ADC. 
 
參考文獻 
[1]  C-Y Wang and J-T Wu, “A Background Timing-Skew Calibration Technique for 
Time-Interleaved Analog-to-Digital Converters,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits 
and Systems - II: Express Briefs, Vol. 53, No. 4, pp. 299-303, April 2006. 
16 
  
Fig 3F.3 Proposed Calibration Processor 
在二階式 ADC 中，比較器是另一個關鍵電路。在本計劃中，CADC 和 FADC
共有約一百個比較器。如果能設計出一個低功耗的比較器，則整個 ADC 的耗電
量將大幅降低。傳統的比較器多使用前放大器(pre-amplifier)來降低偏移電壓
(offset voltage)以達成精確度的要求。但是這樣的作法會消耗比較多的功率，並
不能符合我們的需求。為了降低前放大器的功耗，有人設計了新的比較器[2]。
雖然這種比較器的修正回路可以減低前放大器的功耗，但整體功耗依然偏高。在
本計劃中，我們設計了一個低功耗的比較器如 Fig 3F.4 所示。這個比較器完全不
使用前放大器，它分成兩個部份: latch-comparator 和 AOC。Latch comparator 具
有低耗電的優點，但是它的偏移電壓很大。為了解決這個問題，我們設計了一個
類比補償迴路(AOC)來將偏移電壓調整以達成精確度的要求。 
 
 
Fig 3F.4 Low power comparator with analog offset compensation 
 
參考文獻 
[1]  H. van der Ploeg, et. al, “A 2.5V 12b 54-MS/s 0.25μm CMOS ADC in 1mm²,” 
IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 36, No. 12, pp. 1859-1867, Dec. 2001. 
[2]  Z. Cao, et. Al, “A 32mW 1.25GS/s 6b 2b/step SAR ADC in 0.13μm CMOS,” 
ISSCC Dig. Tech. Papers, pp. 542-543, Feb. 2008. 
 
18 
 在[2]中要得到一個受電流切換影響較少之 RZ 波形，須要使用一個 RZ 或
T/A(Track/Attenuation)輸出級來達成，如圖 3G.1。此一輸出級在半個時脈裡要導
走大半電流，意謂著要面積非常大之 MOS Switch、及強大的 buffer 來推動這些
switches，所要付出的代價包括面積、功率消耗、雜訊比下降。在[3]中也使用了
相似的技術，由圖 3G.2 中我們可以看出要一個 RZ 輸出級除了額外的電流消耗
外面積也佔去不少比例。 
因此我們提出一個數位式 Return to Zero，能達到提高 SFDR 又不需用到龐
大的 RZ 輸出級。如圖 3G.3，數位編碼能得到類比輸出”0”的效果，將原有的數
位信號裡插入一組數位碼為”0”的 DZ 信號，即可達到數位式的 Return to Zero，
但是只做這樣的設計並沒有辦法抑制與電流切換相關的雜訊，在此我們加入了一
個易於實現的亂數編碼，藉由亂數的特性能將電流切換相關的雜訊打散，使的電
流切換相關之雜訊不再完全與輸入信號相關，以達到高 SFDR 之要求。 
 
 
Fig. 3G.3.  Digital return-to-zero operation. 
 
參考文獻 
[1]  Alex R. Bugeja, Bang-Sup Song,Patrick L. Rakers, Steven F. Gillig,” A 14-b, 
100-MS/s CMOS DAC Designed for Spectral Performance”, IEEE JOURNAL 
OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 34, NO. 12, DECEMBER 1999. 
[2]  Alex R. Bugeja, Bang-Sup Song,”A Self-Trimming 14-b 100-MS/s CMOS 
DAC”, IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 35, NO. 12, 
DECEMBER 2000. 
[3]  Qiuting Huang, Pier Andrea Francese, Chiara Martelli, Jannik Nielsen, “A 
200MS/s 14b 97mW DAC in 0.18um CMOS’, ISSCC 2004. 
 
20 
