group, as compared with I/R and I/R+hEPO groups. In 
chronic phase, long-term behavioral recovery and 
neuronal loss in brain cortex after I/R injury was 
significantly improved in the I/R+hEPO+MBs/FUS group. 
This study indicates that hEPO administration with 
MBs/FUS sonication even at 5 h after 
occlusion/reperfusion can produce a significant 
neuroprotection, which is related to the increase of 
vascular permeability caused by MBs/FUS. 
英文關鍵詞： Erythropoietin； Microbubbles； Focused ultrasound； 
Stroke； Neuroprotection； Therapeutic time window 
 
2 
 
Introduction 
The American Stroke Association estimates that stroke accounts for 1 out of 
every 18 deaths and occurs every 40 seconds in the United States. In the 2012 update, 
the majority of strokes were ischemic (87%); 10% were intracerebral hemorrhage; 3% 
were due to subarachnoid hemorrhage. Ischemic stroke results from the occlusion of a 
cerebral artery, leading to a blocked cerebral blood flow to certain part of the brain. 
Two emergent clinical therapies for acute ischemic stroke are: reperfusion of the 
blood flow and neuroprotection of the injured brain cells. Early reperfusion within 3 h 
is beneficial to improve the outcome of acute human ischemic stroke. However, late 
recovery of circulation might cause reperfusion injury, resulting in blood-brain barrier 
(BBB) breakdown, or brain edema.  
Although many animal stroke models have been developed, no single model can 
fully mimic clinical human stroke because of its heterogeneity. The transient three 
vessels occlusion (3VO, two common carotid arteries and middle cerebral artery) 
method provides a model for the study of ischemia-reperfusion injury. This method 
can build a stable focal infarction in the brain. In addition, reperfusion is performed 
easily by untying the suture without plasminogen activator (t-PA) injection, and the 
effect of neuroprotection can be directly reflected in this animal model.  
It has been recently reported that focused ultrasound (FUS) with microbubbles 
(MBs), which are ultrasound contrast agents in clinical use, can disrupt the local BBB 
for providing trans-vascular delivery of macromolecules. The mechanism of 
MBs/FUS-induced vascular permeability change may be caused by the opening of 
tight junction. This disruption of BBB is transient and reversible within several hours. 
In recent study, MBs/FUS has been used to facilitate the delivery of liposomal 
doxorubicin into normal animal brains by opening the BBB. The benefits of this 
delivery method have been demonstrated in animal models with brain tumors and 
Alzheimer's disease. Although MBs/FUS may damage the brain parenchyma, a safe 
sonication can be achieved by regulating ultrasound sonication and the dosage of 
MBs. 
Erythropoietin (EPO) is a secreted glycoprotein produced primarily by the 
kidney and is used clinically to treat anemia. EPO is induced by hypoxia within the 
central nervous system. It has been reported that EPO is a promising acute treatment 
agent in cerebral ischemia in animal studies. The protective mechanisms may include 
the activation of endogenous survival pathways that inhibit apoptosis and further 
reduce inflammatory responses. Systemic administration of EPO after induction of 
focal cerebral ischemia has been demonstrated to exert a potential neuroprotective 
effect on the outcome of stroke; however, there is a limited therapeutic time window. 
The best application time is up to 3 h after ischemia with a leaky BBB.  
4 
 
laid prone beneath the cone tip, and ultrasound transmission gel was used to maximize 
the transmission of ultrasound to the brain. The focal zone is 3 mm and 13 mm in 
diameter and length, respectively. Pulsed sonication was applied with a peak negative 
pressure of 0.57 MPa, a burst length of 10 ms, a duty cycle of 1%, and a repetition 
frequency of 1 Hz. The duration of each sonication was 20 s. The FUS was delivered 
at two locations with 2 mm apart in the right hemisphere cortex: 4 mm lateral to the 
bregma and 1 mm or 3 mm posterior to the bregma, respectively, and both 1 mm 
below the skull surface (Fig. 1C). The MBs (microbubbles) (SonoVue, Bracco, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands) administered as a bolus (10 μl/kg) was injected about 
15 s before each sonication.  
Quantification of hEPO Entering the Brain Tissue 
CSF sample was obtained at 3 h after the execution of hEPO+MBs/FUS or hEPO 
alone. The rats were then perfused with saline and decapitated, and the brain was 
removed and sliced into six coronal sections. Sonicated region of each section was 
dissected and the quantity of hEPO in the brain tissue was measured by ELISA 
method using Quantikine human erythropoietin kit (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN), 
which did not cross-react with rat EPO 
Infarct Volume and Residual Brain Volume Evaluation 
The infarct volume was analyzed 24 h after ischemia. Six consecutive coronal 
sections with 2 mm thick each were sliced, and the section images were analyzed with 
ImageJ (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD) to calculate the infarct volume. 
The residual brain volume was analyzed one month after I/R with similar methods. 
Behavioral Evaluation 
The neurological status of the rats was evaluated 24 h after ischemia. 
Neurological score was based on Menzies behavioral function. Score from 0 to 4 
represents the extent of damage from normality to severity. Score 0: rats can extend 
both forelimbs; score 1: the contralateral forelimb is consistently flexed during 
suspension; score 2: decreased grip of the contralateral forelimb when pulled by the 
tail; score 3: rats show a mono-directional circling at a slight jerk of the tail; and score 
4: a consistent circling occurs. To quantify the asymmetric forelimb use for the stroke 
animals, the cylinder test was performed on Day-3, Day-7, Day-14, Day-21, and 
Day-28 after I/R. The animals were placed in a 20-cm-diameter cylinder with 
transparent glass and at least 25 contacts of the forelimbs on the wall of the cylinder 
were recorded for each rat. Animals were subjected to gait measurement every week 
for one month after I/R utilizing CatWalk-automated gait analysis system (Noldus 
Information Technology, Wageningen, The Netherlands). For gait assessment, the 
animals were subjected to three consecutive runs. After identifying each footprint, the 
images were converted into digital signals and stroke-related gait data were generated 
6 
 
nuclei in the I/R group. On the contrary, the sham and the I/R+hEPO+MBs/FUS 
group displayed an intact presence of neuronal nuclei. It has been reported that 
microglia activation occurs following neuronal death. Neuroinflammation was thus 
evaluated by immunohistochemical staining for CD-11b. CD-11b positive cells with 
large cell bodies were observed throughout the I/R group. In contrast, the 
I/R+hEPO+MBs/FUS group showed more homogenous distribution of cells with long 
fine processes extending from small cell bodies. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) 
recognized astrocytes which were also activated in stroke. The expression of GFAP 
was increased in the I/R group, whereas the astroglia activation was less in the 
I/R+hEPO+MBs/FUS group. 
Increase of Residual Brain Volume by hEPO+MBs/FUS in Chronic Phase of I/R 
After I/R operation, the cortex volume of rat brain may gradually shrink as time 
goes by. Representative Nissl staining showed a drastic loss of cortex tissue in the I/R, 
I/R+hEPO, and I/R+MBs/FUS groups, whereas the group treated with 
hEPO+MBs/FUS displayed a rather intact cortex. The residual brain volume, 
presented as the percentage of contralateral side of cortex, was 99.67 ± 0.18% (n=5), 
60.62 ± 5.53% (n=5), 59.01 ± 9.03% (n=5), 64.41 ± 4.29% (n=5) and 85.97 ± 5.85% 
(n=5) for the sham, I/R, I/R+hEPO, I/R+MBs/FUS, and I/R+hEPO+MBs/FUS groups, 
respectively. The I/R+hEPO+MBs/FUS group displayed a significant increase of 
residual brain volume as compared with the I/R, I/R+hEPO, and I/R+MBs/FUS 
groups (p<0.05). 
Improvement of Asymmetric Limb-Use and Recovery of Gait Deficits by 
hEPO+MBs/FUS in Chronic Phase 
One month after 3VO, the behavioral tests were performed to examine the deficit 
of limb and no animals were dead due to the 3VO surgery. A general linear model 
(GLM) repeated measures procedure with Greenhouse-Geisser correction determined 
that usage of the contralateral forepaw differed significantly among treatment groups 
(F(3, 16) =23.602, p<0.001). Post hoc tests using the Tukey’s HSD precedure 
revealed that the usage of the contralateral forepaws of the IR+hEPO+MBs/FUS 
group was significantly reduced when compared with the I/R group (Fig. 5C, p<0.05). 
The differences between the I/R+hEPO+MBs/FUS group and the I/R group during all 
the examining days were statistically significant (Dunnet’s test, p<0.05 for all). 
Dynamic gait information was also assessed via an automated gait analysis system. In 
the paw-intensity measurement, the intensity of the left forepaw in the I/R group was 
significantly decreased from Day-7 to Day-28 as compared with the sham group, 
while in the I/R+hEPO+MBs/FUS group, the paw intensity significantly recovered 
from Day-14 to Day-28 (p<0.05). The measurement of the left-paw angle indicated 
that the left-paw axis was more inward in the I/R group than in the sham group 
8 
 
technology was demonstrated to be a useful modality to transiently open the localized 
BBB for the targeted delivery of neuroprotectant to treat the ischemic stroke-induced 
brain injury beyond the conventional therapeutic time window.  
Brines et al. reported that animals receiving hEPO ~3 h after occlusion (equal to 
2 h after reperfusion) showed significant reduction of necrosis volume compared with 
controls. Animals receiving hEPO 6 h after occlusion (equal to 5 h after reperfusion) 
exhibited a significant decrease in injury volume, but the effect was substantially 
smaller compared with animals receiving hEPO sooner. Gan et al. reported that EPO 
exerted significantly neuroprotective effects when administered up to 4 h after I/R in 
MCAO model, but the effects were diminished and lost when administered 6 h after 
I/R. In our study, we employed 3VO for 50 min and injected EPO 5 h after 
reperfusion and the result showed that there was no significant neuroprotection. These 
might be due to different stroke models with various occlusion and ischemic duration 
would produce different levels of impact on the brain. 
EPO-TAT administered at the onset of post-stroke reperfusion and showed the 
ability across the BBB for neuroprotection. Derivatives of EPO such as CEPO and 
showed the ability of neuroprotection only within 4 h after occlusion, which is equal 
to 3 h after reperfusion, in a rat model of focal ischemia. BBB is more permeable for 
these EPO derivatives within 3 h after reperfusion due to leaky vascularity. Mutant 
EPO exerted neuroprotective effects up to 4 h after reperfusion but gradually lose its 
efficacy as time went by. However, the neuroprotective effects were diminished and 
lost when administered 6 h after reperfusion. The loss of neuropretection was due to 
the recovery of BBB permeability. In our study, MBs/FUS demonstrated the ability to 
enhance EPO into the brain at 5 h after reperfusion (~6 h after the onset of occlusion). 
MBs/FUS can open the intact BBB and extend the therapeutic time window of EPO 
treatment. 
The parameters used in this study are based on our previous work, which is able 
to minimize the brain tissue damage. Ultrasound pressure would have caused the 
microbubbles in the acoustic beam oscillation and even cavitation during sonication. 
These oscillation and cavitation may open vascular walls to enhance hEPO transport 
into brain tissues. However, the above phenomena may produce some small 
hemorrhages for the brain tissue in the focal zone, which might be probable to cause 
some damage. To achieve effective drug delivery and minimize this side-effect, we 
can control acoustic pressure, duty cycle, sonication time, MB dose, etc.  
For clinical patient treatments, FUS transducers can be combined with magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) system and thus the MR imaging can be used to guide the 
FUS transducer to have a precision sonication and to monitor the treatment response. 
Recently, it has been shown the feasibility of using MRI-guided FUS with MBs to 
10 
 
9. Liu HL, Hua MY, Chen PY, Chu PC, Pan CH, et al. (2010) Blood-brain barrier 
disruption with focused ultrasound enhances delivery of chemotherapeutic drugs for 
glioblastoma treatment. Radiology 255: 415-425. 
10. Park EJ, Zhang YZ, Vykhodtseva N, McDannold N (2012) Ultrasound-mediated 
blood-brain/blood-tumor barrier disruption improves outcomes with trastuzumab in a 
breast cancer brain metastasis model. J Control Release 163: 277-284. 
11. Yang FY, Wong TT, Teng MC, Liu RS, Lu M, et al. (2012) Focused ultrasound 
and interleukin-4 receptor-targeted liposomal doxorubicin for enhanced targeted drug 
delivery and antitumor effect in glioblastoma multiforme. J Control Release 160: 
652-658. 
12. Raymond SB, Treat LH, Dewey JD, McDannold NJ, Hynynen K, et al. (2008) 
Ultrasound enhanced delivery of molecular imaging and therapeutic agents in 
Alzheimer's disease mouse models. PLoS One 3: e2175. 
13. Jordao JF, Ayala-Grosso CA, Markham K, Huang Y, Chopra R, et al. (2010) 
Antibodies targeted to the brain with image-guided focused ultrasound reduces 
amyloid-beta plaque load in the TgCRND8 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. 
PLoS One 5: e10549. 
14. Weng JC, Wu SK, Lin WL, Tseng WY (2011) Detecting blood-brain barrier 
disruption within minimal hemorrhage following transcranial focused ultrasound: a 
correlation study with contrast-enhanced MRI. Magn Reson Med 65: 802-811. 
15. Nagao M, Suga H, Okano M, Masuda S, Narita H, et al. (1992) Nucleotide 
sequence of rat erythropoietin. Biochim Biophys Acta 1171: 99-102. 
16. Wen D, Boissel JP, Tracy TE, Gruninger RH, Mulcahy LS, et al. (1993) 
Erythropoietin structure-function relationships: high degree of sequence homology 
among mammals. Blood 82: 1507-1516. 
17. Siren AL, Fratelli M, Brines M, Goemans C, Casagrande S, et al. (2001) 
Erythropoietin prevents neuronal apoptosis after cerebral ischemia and metabolic 
stress. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 98: 4044-4049. 
18. Villa P, Bigini P, Mennini T, Agnello D, Laragione T, et al. (2003) Erythropoietin 
selectively attenuates cytokine production and inflammation in cerebral ischemia by 
targeting neuronal apoptosis. J Exp Med 198: 971-975. 
19. Villa P, van Beek J, Larsen AK, Gerwien J, Christensen S, et al. (2007) Reduced 
functional deficits, neuroinflammation, and secondary tissue damage after treatment 
of stroke by nonerythropoietic erythropoietin derivatives. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab 
27: 552-563. 
20. Ishii T, Asai T, Urakami T, Oku N (2010) Accumulation of macromolecules in 
brain parenchyma in acute phase of cerebral infarction/reperfusion. Brain Res 1321: 
164-168. 
12 
 
33. Brines ML, Ghezzi P, Keenan S, Agnello D, de Lanerolle NC, et al. (2000) 
Erythropoietin crosses the blood-brain barrier to protect against experimental brain 
injury. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 97: 10526-10531. 
34. Gan Y, Xing J, Jing Z, Stetler RA, Zhang F, et al. (2012) Mutant erythropoietin 
without erythropoietic activity is neuroprotective against ischemic brain injury. Stroke 
43: 3071-3077. 
35. Zhang F, Xing J, Liou AK, Wang S, Gan Y, et al. (2010) Enhanced Delivery of 
Erythropoietin Across the Blood-Brain Barrier for Neuroprotection against Ischemic 
Neuronal Injury. Transl Stroke Res 1: 113-121. 
36. Leist M, Ghezzi P, Grasso G, Bianchi R, Villa P, et al. (2004) Derivatives of 
erythropoietin that are tissue protective but not erythropoietic. Science 305: 239-242. 
37. Vykhodtseva N, McDannold N, Hynynen K (2008) Progress and problems in the 
application of focused ultrasound for blood-brain barrier disruption. Ultrasonics 48: 
279-296. 
38. McDannold N, Vykhodtseva N, Hynynen K (2006) Targeted disruption of the 
blood-brain barrier with focused ultrasound: association with cavitation activity. Phys 
Med Biol 51: 793-807. 
39. Hynynen K, McDannold N, Clement G, Jolesz FA, Zadicario E, et al. (2006) 
Pre-clinical testing of a phased array ultrasound system for MRI-guided noninvasive 
surgery of the brain--a primate study. Eur J Radiol 59: 149-156. 
40. Marquet F, Tung YS, Teichert T, Ferrera VP, Konofagou EE (2011) Noninvasive, 
transient and selective blood-brain barrier opening in non-human primates in vivo. 
PLoS One 6: e22598. 
  
14 
 
 
Figure 3 Reduction of brain infarct volume and neurological score by 
hEPO+MBs/FUS 
(A) TTC-stained coronal brain showed the infarct area 24 h after 3VO for the I/R (control), 
I/R+MBs/FUS, I/R+hEPO, and I/R+hEPO+MBs/FUS groups. (B) The infarct volume was significantly 
reduced in the hEPO+MBs/FUS group. (C) hEPO combined with MBs/FUS significantly reduced the 
neurological scores. Data were presented as mean ± SEM, * p<0.05 as compared with the control 
group. 
 
 
Figure.4 hEPO+MBs/FUS inhibits the ischemia/reperfusion-induced neuronal death 
and inflammation 
In NeuN staining (B, E, and H), the I/R group showed a marked loss of neurons, whereas, neurons were 
intact in the sham and I/R+hEPO+MBs/FUS groups. In CD-11b staining (C, F, and I), the I/R group 
16 
 
Two gait analysis parameters, paw intensity (A) and paw angle (B), were assessed from Day-7 to 
Day-28 after I/R. In both paw intensity and paw angle, treatment with hEPO+MBs/FUS significantly 
improved the performance of impaired limb. Data were shown as mean ± SEM (n=5 for each group), * 
p<0.05 as compared with the sham (control group), # p<0.05 as compared with the I/R group. 
此次研討會是以日本為主體,其次是美國、德國及荷蘭,日本熱醫學學會有六百多個會員,
有相當多的臨床及基礎研究,另外也有多家醫療器材公司研發熱治療儀器,歐洲地區則是
以德國與荷蘭為主體,組成跨國的研究合作團體 The Atzelsberg Circle,有定期會議討論臨
床試驗及相關研究,而美國熱醫學學會則每年四月會有固定年會,其研究目前較集中基礎
及熱對奈米藥物之控制置放及傳送。個人投稿的論文有四百餘篇,在臨床、基礎及工程三
大領域的論文數大約相近,發表的形式有口頭發表及壁報論文發表者,除了需準備壁報將
研究成果具體呈現外,另外還需準備四張投影片做口頭簡短報告。 
三、發表論文全文或摘要 
這次研討會,本人帶領了實驗室兩位博士班研究生,共發表了三篇論文,另外有兩篇論文是
與淡江大學教授共同發表,本人實驗室所發表的三篇論文分別為: 1)Design and 
Characterization of Dual-curvature 1.5-dimensional Focused ultrasound Phased-array 
Transducer for Tumor Therapy;2)MRI-compatible ring-typed Ultrasound Phased-array 
Transducer for Breat Tumor Thermal Therapy;3)Treatment Enhancement of 
Ultrasound-mediated Nanodrug Delivery In Combination with Hypertherthermia。 
四、建議 
此次研討會聚集了各方面的研究人員發表最新的研究成果,同時大會也精心安排各種不
同特性的 Symposia 來教導新一代的研究者,使得參加者發表論文及接受到各種不同的相
關教育,可進一步促進研究人員想法及提升下一步的研究。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文摘要手冊 
六、其他 
這三篇論文是具有相當創新及將來臨床應用價值,分別榮獲傑出壁報論文獎(物理工程部
分),是相當難得的,此兩篇論文分別是探討製作適用於乳房及深層腫瘤加熱用之陣列型超
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2014/01/23
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 探討脈衝聚焦超音波搭配微氣泡在影像導引與監控下局部開啟血腦屏障及其
在中樞神經疾病治療之應用
計畫主持人: 林文澧
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-002-005-MY3 學門領域: 醫用電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
博士生吳聖凱之研討會論文獲得 ACUCI 2013 優秀論文競賽分組第二名。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
