i 
 
垂直凝固系統於旋轉振動場下的雙擴散流及界面形態的研究 
 
摘要 
本研究以一新穎的旋轉振動方式來控制垂直凝固製程，藉由振動引起的 Schiliting
邊界流動來控制因溫度梯度與濃度梯度引起的雙擴散流，進而控制溶質分佈與增加界面的
穩定性，這個技術對單晶生長及區熔提純控制上，有相當重要的應用。我們首先採用低溫
透明的 succinonitrile分別摻雜 acetone(輕溶質)與 salol(重溶質)來進行可視化的垂直凝固實
驗，藉此探討旋轉振動對流動、界面形態與偏析的影響。同時我們也以數值模擬進行理論
分析，數值模擬的結果與實驗觀察相當吻合，而且結果顯示旋轉振動的確可有效控制溶質
分佈，防止組成過冷，進而增加界面的穩定性。因此我們進一步將此技術應用於鍺合金的
晶體生長，實驗結果證實旋轉振動的確可有效控制晶體溶質偏析，而數值模擬的結果也與
實驗結果吻合。 
關鍵詞: 旋轉振動、垂直凝固、界面形態、對流、偏析、布氏晶體生長 
 
iii 
Contents 
 
1 Theoretical and experimental studies on the transparent SCN/acetone system 
1.1 Introduction 
1.2 Methods 
1.3 Results and discussion 
1.3.1 Experimental observations 
1.3.2 Numerical simulation 
1.4 Conclusions 
 
2 Comparison of the transparent SCN/acetone and the SCN/salol systems 
2.1 Introduction 
2.2 Methods 
2.3 Results and discussion 
2.3.1  Interface morphology 
2.3.2  Effect of angular vibration 
2.4 Conclusions 
 
3 Application of the angular vibration technique to the growth of gallium-doped 
germanium crystals 
3.1 Introduction 
3.2 Methods 
3.3 Results and discussion 
3.3.1 Radial segregation 
3.3.2 Axial segregation 
3.3.3 Numerical simulation 
3.4 Conclusions 
 
4  List of published papers
2 
sample purity could be higher than 99.99% [17]. The distilled sample was collected in a 17-mm 
diameter Pyrex ampoule (2.5mm in thickness) and further purified by four-zone refining for 
more than sixty passes. The sample was then examined by directional solidification. Under a 
thermal gradient of 8 to 10 K/cm, no morphological breakdown was observed up to a 
solidification speed of 7 μm/s. To perform the solidification experiments, about 0.02 wt% of 
acetone was injected into the sample through a micro-syringe inserted into the bottom of the 
sample. In order to insure acetone uniformity in the melt, the sample was allowed to stand for at 
least one day before the growth experiment. The total sample length was about 20 cm. The 
furnace for directional solidification consisted of two heating zones made of cupper blocks, each 
fitted with a Nichrome wire inside as the heating element. In between, a transparent insulation 
zone made of Plexiglas allowed for interface observation. The hot- and cold-zone temperatures 
were controlled independently by two PID controllers and the temperatures were set to 80℃ (top) 
and 40℃ (bottom), respectively. The thermal gradient at the interface was measured by an 
immersed thermocouple traveling with the sample. By taking an average of the gradients at the 
interface from solidification and melting curves, we estimated the thermal gradient to be about 8 
to 10 K/cm. To translate the ampoule accurately, a micro-stepping motor was used to drive a 
screw slide; the translation rate was controlled at 2 μm/s in this study. During solidification, a 
video camera was used to record the evolution of the interface morphology with a back lighting 
to enhance the contrast of the image. Also, to allow smooth rotation, the ampoule was tightly 
fitted into a pair of bearings (top and bottom) that were both mounted on the translating system. 
Furthermore, to generate angular vibration, as shown in Fig. 1.1, a stepping motor was used to 
rotate a disk having a shaft connected to the other disk that mounts the sample. The vibration 
amplitude was controlled by the position of the shaft in the disk, while the frequency was 
controlled by the rotation speed of the stepping motor. In the experiments, the dimensionless 
amplitude was about 0.035. 
1.3  Results and discussion 
1.3.1  Experimental observations 
Figure 1.2 shows the effect of angular vibration on the interface evolution. As shown, 
without vibration (0 Hz) at stationary as the top left photograph, the interface was flat. This is 
due to the closed thermal conductivities of the melt and the crystal. As the ampoule was 
translated downward at 2 μm/s, the solidification began and the interface became concave due 
to the release of heat fusion, as shown by the photograph at 50 min after pulling. A clear 
depression or pit formed at the interface center, and this was due to acetone accumulation, which 
4 
solidification lasted several hours, while the time step for integration needs to be much smaller 
than the vibration period (0.2 s). More than 105 time steps were needed for one simulation. The 
time averaged flow and solute profiles at various times are shown in Fig. 1.3b. It was observed 
that supercooling started at around 2400s. A small secondary flow cell was formed near the 
center of the interface, while the other flow structures remained almost unchanged. Numerical 
breakdown appeared at latter time (e.g., at 4800 s). The pit formation was not obvious, which 
agreed reasonably well with the experimental observation. The time for the onset of 
supercooling was also consistent with the experimental observation.  
On the other hand, the simulation using the Schlichting boundary layer approximation 
(SBLA) was further carried out and shown in Fig. 1.4a. As shown, the results are quite different 
from that in Fig. 1.3b. In SBLA, the frequency was assumed high enough, so that the tangential 
velocity was imposed at the growth interface. This resulted in a secondary flow cell sitting upon 
the interface. No pit formation and supercooling were found in Fig. 1.4a. In other words, the 
simulated results using SBLA were not consistent with the experiments. The simulation seemed 
to over predict the effect of the angular vibration.  
For angular vibration of 20 Hz, as shown in Fig. 1.4b, the results were similar to that of 
5Hz in Fig. 1.4a, but the flow intensity for the Schlichting cell was significantly larger. Again, 
no pit formation and supercooling were observed, which was consistent with the experiment. 
The interface shape was also in reasonable agreement with the observed one. Direct numerical 
simulation of the growth at 20Hz was not realistic because of the long computation time. 
Nevertheless, we still examined the validity of SBLA for 20 Hz for a similar case. To save 
computation time, we picked a stationary system similar to the case at t= 0 s in Fig. 1.4b for 
comparison, but the solutal effect was ignored (let C=0). Figure 1.5 shows the comparison of the 
calculated isotherms (left) and the streamlines (right) using SBLA and DNS with 5 and 20 Hz 
for the same vibration intensity (2πbv 2f); the SBLA is independent of frequency as long as the 
Schlichting velocity remains the same. As shown in Fig. 1.5, the calculated isotherms and flow 
patterns are all very similar. However, if we compare the flow intensity of the Schlichting cell 
near the interface, the vortex center moves downward as the frequency increases from 5 to 20 
Hz, which is consistent with the boundary layer thickness predicted in Eq. (15). The flow 
intensity increases with the frequency as well. However, even at 20Hz, the maximum flow 
intensity (|Ψmin|) is only about 72.5% of that calculated from SBLA. Further increasing the 
frequency slightly improves the results. The oscillation amplitudes of the stream function for the 
Schlichting cells are 1.75x10-4 (~0.74|Ψmin|) and 6.03x10-5g/s (~0.315|Ψmin|), respectively. 
6 
way to improve the uniformity if the growth distance is much longer than the diffusive distance. 
Figure 1.8 shows the calculated solute segregations (in radial average) in the growing crystal. 
Interestingly, for 5 Hz, the segregation behaviors of DNS and SBLA were quite similar; both 
were more diffusive (less convective transport) than the others. On the other hand, the 
segregation profiles for 0, 10, and 20 Hz were all similar having a better solute mixing. It is thus 
clear that the angular vibration modified the flow structure and tended to enhance solute mixing 
near the growing interface. Therefore, in order to keep the more diffusive growth condition with 
less global solute mixing, a high frequency and low amplitude vibration is recommended for 
reducing the axial segregation. 
1.4  Conclusions 
The effect of angular vibration on the flow, morphology, and solute segregation during 
vertical Bridgman crystal growth of SCN containing 0.02 wt% acetone was investigated. Both 
direct numerical simulation (DNS) and Schlichting boundary layer approximation (SBLA) were 
considered in the numerical modeling and compared with the experimental observations. The 
simulated results were consistent reasonably well with the experimental results. However, as 
anticipated, SBLA was only suitable for high frequencies with low amplitudes. At a low 
frequency, say 5Hz, SBLA was found erroneous. Nevertheless, based on the simulated results 
and the transparent experiments, the angular vibration technique was proven to be effective in 
the flow and segregation control for the vertical Bridgman crystal growth. 
 
8 
 
         
Fig. 1.1  Sketch of the experimental setup for Fig. 1.2  Effect of angular vibration  
        vertical Bridgman crystal growth with             frequency on interface 
angular vibration.                              morphologies 
 
 
             
Fig. 1.3  Calculated flow and acetone fields, as well as the interface shape using direct 
numerical simulation (DNS) for (a) without angular vibration; (b) 5Hz vibration; the 
ampoule pulling speed of 2.0μm/s and vibration amplitude was about 0.035. 
10 
 
Fig.1.7  Calculated radial segregations (ΔCc/C0) at various conditions; numerical breakdown 
was clear for 0 and 5 Hz DNS after t= 4000 s. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1.8  Calculated axial acetone segregation (normalized radial averaged concentration) for 
various vibration conditions. 
12 
refining for more than sixty passes. The purified sample was then examined by directional 
solidification. No morphological breakdown was observed up to 7 µm/s of the solidification 
speed for a thermal gradient of 8 to 10 K/cm. To perform crystal growth experiments, acetone or 
salol was injected into the sample through a 5 µl micro-syringe inserted into the bottom of the 
sample. The total sample length was about 20 cm.  
The furnace for directional solidification consisted of two heating zones made of copper 
blocks each with a Nichrome wire inside as a heating element. In between, a transparent 
insulation zone made of Plexiglas was used. The hot- and cold-zone temperatures were 
controlled independently by two PID controllers and the temperatures were set to 80oC (top) and 
40oC (bottom), respectively. The thermal gradient at the interface was measured by an immersed 
thermocouple traveling with the sample. By taking an average of the gradients at the interface 
from solidification and melting curves, the thermal gradient was measured being about 8 to 
10K/cm. To translate the ampoule accurately, a microstepping motor was used to drive a screw 
slide; the translation rate was controlled at 1.6 µm/s in this study. During solidification, a digital 
video camera was used to record the evolution of the interface morphology with a back lighting 
to enhance the contrast of the image. Also, to allow a smooth rotational motion, the ampoule 
was tightly fitted into a pair of bearings (top and bottom) that were both mounted on the 
translating system. Furthermore, to generate angular vibration, as shown in Fig. 2.1, a stepping 
motor was used to rotate a disk having a shaft connected to the other disk that mounted the 
sample. The vibration amplitude was controlled by the position of the shaft in the disk, while the 
frequency was controlled by the rotation speed of the stepping motor. In the experiments, the 
dimensionless amplitude was about 0.045, i.e., a fraction of 2π. 
2.3  Results and discussion 
2.3.1  Interface morphology 
Figs. 2.2a and 2.2b show the interface shape evolution during Bridgman growth of SCN 
containing 0.064 wt% acetone and 0.15 wt% salol, respectively, at the pulling speed of 1.6 _m/s. 
For acetone, at stationary, the interface was flat due to the nearly equal thermal conductivities of 
the melt and the crystal. As the solidification started, the interface moved downward and slightly 
deformed. At around 40 min, a depression occurred at the center due to the local accumulation 
of acetone. Such a depression having a cusp tip broke down, due to constitutional supercooling, 
at about the same time. Further breakdown and enlargement of the pattern can be seen from the 
photographs at 60 and 80 min, respectively. The evolution of interface morphology for 
SCN/salol showed a similar behavior. However, as shown in Fig. 2.2b, the depression shape was 
wider. The morphological breakdown occurred at about the same time being about 40 min. The 
14 
the morphological breakdown shown in Fig. 2.3. Moreover, because the convection near the 
solidification interface in SCN/salol was weaker, this caused the poorer global salol mixing 
there. As a result, the accumulation of salol was more than that of acetone. To illustrate the 
onset of the constitutional supercooling, we extracted the superheating gradient from the 
previous simulated results as shown in Fig. 2.6. In the figure, the superheating gradient ∆G is 
defined as follows: 
             ,// dnmdCdndTG −=∆                       
where m is the slope of the liquidus line obtained from the phase diagram and n the normal 
distance from the interface; the superheatings in Fig. 2.6 were at the center of the interface. At 
stationary, the solute is uniform, so that ∆G=dT/dz is the thermal gradient at the interface (in the 
melt side). As shown in Fig. 2.6, the superheating gradients for both cases decreased 
monotonically with time. However, constitutional supercooling occurred slightly earlier for 
SCN/acetone. The earlier onset of the supercooling for SCN/acetone was attributed to the local 
acetone accumulation at the depression area as a result of the convection. The simulated results 
having a large supercooling were often accompanied by numerical breakdown at the interface. 
Therefore, the simulated results after 60 min were not reliable. 
2.3.2  Effect of angular vibration 
To further control the solute field and interface morphology, angular vibration was applied. 
The effect of vibration frequency on the interface morphology at 60 min after the ampoule 
translation is shown in Figs. 2.7a and 2.7b, for SCN/acetone and SCN/salol, respectively. For 
SCN/acetone in Fig. 2.7a, there was no morphological breakdown in 60 min for the frequency 
greater than 3 Hz; at 3 Hz, the interface was not quite smooth. Also, from 0 to 5 Hz, the 
interface concavity decreased with the vibration frequency. However, the interface concavity 
increased again from 5 to 20 Hz. Interestingly, a wavy interface was found at 20 Hz, and the 
variation was along the angular direction. The effect of vibration for SCN/salol had a similar 
trend as shown in Fig. 2.7b. However, at 3 Hz, the area of the morphological breakdown was 
significantly larger as compared with that of no vibration. The interface concavity also 
decreased from 3 to 5 Hz, and then increased again from 5 to 20 Hz. At 20 Hz, a wavy interface 
was observed as well. Computer simulation was further carried out, and the comparison with the 
interface was shown in Figs. 2.8a and 2.8b for SCN/acetone and SCN/salol, respectively. As 
shown, the simulated interface concavity for both cases agreed quite well with the experiments. 
It should be noticed that the interface was at the upper boundary of the breakdown area. More 
importantly, from 0 to 5 Hz, the interface concavity decreased with the frequency, while from 5 
16 
References 
Adornato P.M., Brown R.A., 1987, Convection and segregation in directional solidification of 
dilute and non-dilute alloys: effect of ampoule and furnace design, Journal of Crystal 
Growth, 80, 155-190. 
Brice J.C., 1986, Crystal Growth Processes, Jone Wiley & Sons, New York. 
Ghorayeb K., Khallouf H., Mojtabi A., 1999, Onset of oscillatory flows in double- diffusive 
convection, International Journal of Heat Mass Transfer, 42, (4), 629–643. 
Lan C.W., Chen F.C., 1996, A Finite-Volume Method For Solute Segregation in Directional 
Solidification and Comparison with a Finite-Element Method, Computer Methods in 
Applied Mechanics and Engineering, 31, 191-207. 
Lan C.W., Liang M.C., 1998, Modeling of dopant segregation in vertical zone-melting crystal 
growth, Journal of Crystal Growth, 186, 203-213. 
Lan C.W. and Tu C.Y., 2001, Morphological instability due to double diffusive convection in 
directional solidification: the pit formation, Journal of Crystal Growth, 220, 619-630. 
Lan C.W., 2004, Recent progress of crystal growth modeling and growth control, Chemical 
Engineering Science, 59, 1437-1457. 
Lan C.W., 2005, Flow and segregation control by accelerated rotation for vertical Bridgman 
growth of cadmium zinc telluride: ACRT versus vibration, Journal of Crystal Growth 274, 
379-386.  
Monberg E., 1994, Bridgman and related growth techniques, In Handbook of Crystal Growth 2a: 
Basic Techniques; Hurle, D.T.J. Eds.; North-Holland: Amsterdam, 51-97.  
Mullins W.W., Sekerka R.F., 1964, Stability of a planar interface during solidification of a dilute 
binary alloy. Journal of Applied Physics, 35, 444-451. 
Nishimura T., Wakamatsu M., Morega A.M., 1998, Oscillatory double-diffusive convection in a 
rectangular enclosure with combined horizontal temperature and concentration gradients, 
International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer, 41, (11), 1601–1611. 
Scheel H.J., 1971, Flux growth of large crystals by accelerated crucible-rotation technique. 
Journal of Crystal Growth, 13, 304-306. 
Shi K., Lu W., 2006, Time evolution of double-diffusive convection in a vertical cylinder with 
radial temperature and axial solutal gradients, International Journal of Heat and Mass 
Transfer, 49, 995–1003. 
Singh N.B., Mani S.S., Adam J.D., Coriell S.R., Glicksman M.E., Duval W.M.B., Santaro G..J., 
DeWitt R., 1996, Direct observations of interface instability, Journal of Crystal Growth, 166, 
364-369.  
Tiller W.A., Jackson K.A., Rutter J.W., Chalmers B., 1953, The redistribution of solute atoms 
during the solidification of metals, Acta Metallurgica, 1, 428-437.  
Yu W.C., Chen Z.B., Hsu W.T., Roux B., Lyubimova T.P., Lan C.W., 2004, Reversing radial 
segregation and suppressing morphological instability during Bridgman crystal growth by 
angular vibration, Journal of Crystal Growth, 271, 474-480. 
18 
 
Fig. 2.1  Sketch of the experimental set-up for 
vertical Bridgman crystal growth with 
angular vibration; the furnace profile Tf(z) 
was used for simulation. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2.2 Interface evolution of vertical Bridgman 
growth of SCN containing (a) 0.064 wt% of 
acetone; (b) 0.15 wt% of salol. The ampoule 
pulling speed is 1.6 µm/s. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2.3 Enlarged photograph and the sketch of the 
interface and the lower boundary of the 
breakdown morphology: (a) SCN/Acetone; (b) 
SCN/Salol 
 
 
 
Fig. 2.4 Calculated flow and solute fields (a) 
SCN/acetone; (b) SCN/salol; the ampoule 
pulling speed is 1.6 m/s. 
 
 
 
20 
3. Application of the angular vibration technique to the growth of gallium-doped 
germanium crystals 
 
3.1 Introduction  
The control of convection and segregation is important in vertical Bridgman (VB) crystal 
growth. Because of the lack of control over stirring conditions, the use of external forces is often 
adopted. The accelerated crucible rotation technique (ACRT) proposed by Scheel and 
Schulz-DuBois [1] is a promising way to introduce a forced convection, i.e., the Ekman flow, 
and thus the melt mixing. The control of the acceleration cycle, especially the cycle period, is 
crucial to the flow structures and thus the segregation [2]. As a general rule, in order to develop 
the Ekman boundary layer, the time for a spin-up or spin-down cycle is usually in the order of 
mRCR νΩ/2 [3-4], where RC is the crystal radius, ΩR the rotation amplitude, and ν the 
kinematic viscosity of the melt. This time constant, as a quarter of the cycle period, is usually 
several seconds for most of the materials having a diameter of several centimeters. Although the 
ACRT is an effective way in the flow control, the control of radial segregation often requires an 
intensive flow, which leads to significant growth striations. An alternative approach to apply 
ACRT is o use a cycle time that is much shorter than the Ekman time. This method is known as 
the angular vibration technique (AVT) [5-6]. In this technique, the ampoule is vibrated in the 
angular direction at high frequency (typically greater than 5 Hz). The control of solute 
segregation and the morphological stability using this technique has been demonstrated, using a 
low temperature model material, and computer simulation has also been carried out for 
illustration [7]. 
Although numerical simulations and low-temperature transparent experiments using 
succinonitrile (SCN), a high Prandtl number (Pr≣νm/αm, where αm is the thermal diffusivity) 
material, have been carried out for both ACRT and AVT, they have not yet implemented and 
compared directly on semiconductor growth. Most of the typical semiconductors, such as silicon 
and germanium, have a low Prandtl number (much less than unity), or relatively less viscous. 
Therefore, the momentum transport and its effect on heat transfer are different from organics or 
oxides. Also, in general ampoule coating is usually used for semiconductors using a quartz 
ampoule, so that the effectiveness of the accelerated rotation can be affected by the slip between 
the crystal and the ampoule. In this report, we present the experimental and simulation results 
for using both techniques on the segregation control during VB growth of gallium (Ga) doped 
germanium crystals. In next section, the experimental setup and procedures, as well as 
numerical simulation, are briefly described. Section 3.3 is devoted to results and discussion 
followed by short conclusions in Section 3.4. 
22 
crystal growth can be found in [16]. By applying the rotation function for the boundary 
conditions, the simulation for ACRT could be carried out [7, 8, 10]. 
In this study, the ACRT pattern was the same as that in [11], namely, each cycle consisted 
of 5 s acceleration, 5 s deceleration, and 2 s rest. For the AVT, the Schlitching boundary 
condition [9] was adopted, which is an approximation for converting the complex flows near the 
crystal/melt interface into a net streaming flow along the interface. In reality, the amplitude of 
angular vibration was set to be 0.15. 
3.3  Results and discussion 
Five crystal growth experiments, one without rotation, two with AVT (5 and 10 Hz) and 
two with ACRT (30 and 60 RPM), were carried out based on the same thermal environment. The 
as grown crystals are shown in Fig. 3.2. As show, there was no clear difference from their 
appearance. The melt back interface was clearly seen in all cases. However, the fast growth 
position was not so clear from the appearance. The effects of AVT and ACRT on the radial and 
axial segregation are discussed in the following sections.  
3.3.1 Radial segregation 
The radial Ga concentration profiles were measured from the wafer cut from the growth 
starting point of each ingot. For comparison purposes, they were normalized by their dopant 
concentration and shown in Figs. 3 to 5. In Fig. 3.3, without rotation, there is a clear dopant 
accumulation at the center; after the concentration was built up, some asymmetry was found 
from the concentration measurement. As reported from the previous simulation results [17], this 
is due to the toroidal thermal convection induced by the concave interface. For 3.0 cm of this 
case, the radial segregation was up to 49% showing severe radial dopant nonuniformity, and the 
concentration at the center is even doubled in the quench growth period. In Fig. 3.4, with 5 Hz 
AVT, the radial segregation at 3.0 mm was greatly reduced as comparing with the case without 
external force. Because a much stronger Schlitching flow sweeps outwardly along the 
solid-liquid interface, 10 Hz AVT tends to have a more conspicuous suppression for radial 
segregation. At the end of first stage, namely 3.0 cm, 5 Hz AVT performed less ability than 10 
Hz AVT did to reduce overall concentration. The differentiation of 5 and 10 Hz AVT is not very 
significant enough until quench growth. During quench growth, namely 4.0 cm, it is clear that 
the 10 Hz AVT can better control radial segregation than 5 Hz AVT can do. These demonstrated 
that 5 Hz AVT maybe good enough for growth of first stage. When faster growth rate is applied, 
higher amplitude of AVT, like 10 Hz, will be needed to suppress more severe radial segregation 
due to stronger toroidal convection.  
In the case of 30 and 60 rpm ACRT shown in Fig. 3.5, the radial concentration is more 
24 
were collected up to 25 mm from the starting point. Compared with the two extreme conditions 
of mixing in Fig. 3.6, the resulting curvatures of growth with no external forces and 5 Hz AVT 
tend to be more convex and upward and thus have less axial segregation than the two cases of 
ACRT. However, in the end of growing process, the curve of 10 Hz AVT is similar as the good 
mixing curve. It is because the height of melt becomes short then, and so 10 Hz AVT is 
sufficiently strong to enhance the global mixing of the melt. The curve of 60 rpm ACRT is close 
to the good mixing curve at the beginning. It indicates that the external force of 60 rpm ACRT 
enhance the global mixing in the whole of melt. 
3.3.3  Numerical simulation 
Qualitatively, results of computer simulation show a good agreement with experimental 
measurements. Figure 7 shows the simulation results of dopant concentration history during 
crystal growth with instantaneous melt flow direction upon. The concentrations here are all 
divided by C0. In Fig. 3.8(a), the growth without external forces, solute distribution concentrates 
near the center from the beginning to the end because the clockwise flow of natural convection 
deteriorates the radial segregation. In axial direction, the range of dopant concentration is 
distributed from 0.12 to 0.58. It means that the axial segregation is even enhanced by over 
accumulation of solute. In the case of 30 rpm ACRT, the concentration plot has enormous 
striations because of a long period of ACRT cycle. Overall, the averaged flow pattern indicates 
that the net flow to sweep solute out is not strong enough and thus solutes still slightly aggregate 
at the center. The range of dopant concentration is from 0.10 to 0.35. It means that the force 
convection induced by 30 rpm ACRT is effective in improving the radial segregation as well as 
axial segregation. However, it indicated that more dramatic axial segregation will take place 
near the end of the crystal growth because plenty of solutes have not stayed in solid phase 
during solidifying. In the case of 60 rpm ACRT, the global mixing is very good due to sufficient 
forced convection and comparatively short melt length. Near the solid-liquid interface, the 
counterclockwise flow reduce the radial segregation, but the stronger convective flows supply a 
good mixing condition which prevents the solute from accumulating near the interface. This will 
cause more severe axial segregation as a consequence.  
In Fig. 3.7(d), the case of 5 Hz AVT, the shape of streamlines is not distorted a lot by AVT. 
As the solutes being slightly swept outward in the radial direction, the convective flow does not 
supply good mixing for melt in the axial direction. Therefore, the dopant concentration is more 
uniform than the case without external forces while this amplitude of AVT does not cause more 
severe axial segregation. In Fig. 3.7(e), the case of 10 Hz AVT, the solute distribution is reversed 
in the radial direction because of too strong Schlithing flow near the interface. Such a strong 
forced convection will definitely influence the axial mixing condition of melt, especially when 
26 
when analyzing axial segregation from results of simulation. 
3.4  Conclusions  
In this report, both of experiments and computer simulations are carries out and discussed in 
detail. To conclude, it is clear that ACRT generates the global mixing, especially in 60 rpm 
ACRT experiment. On the other hand, angular vibration technique (AVT) can reverse the radial 
segregation easily and almost without enhancing global mixing, especially in 5Hz AVT 
experiment. Higher amplitudes of ACRT are required to suppress radial segregation but it often 
causes more severe axial segregation at such large amplitude of ACRT. Although both 
techniques can reduce the radial segregation, using appropriate amplitude of AVT will lead to 
less axial segregation. 
28 
Table 3.1. Averaged values of radial gallium concentration at the end of two stages of crystal 
grown with and without accelerated crucible rotation.  
End of the first stage The second stage  
(C/C0)av Deviation (%) (C/C0)av Deviation (%) 
No external force 0.59 49.84 1.03 105.89 
5 Hz AVT 0.81 10.14 1.89 19.89 
10 Hz AVT 0.58 13.38 0.57 15.71 
30 rpm ACRT 0.70 7.03 3.50 29.93 
60 rpm ACRT 0.82 13.93 3.17 8.12 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.1  A schematic of experimental setup and the measured thermal profile. 
 
30 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
-1 -0.5 0 0.5 1
r (cm)
C/
C 0
 (-
)
5 Hz AVT, z = 3.0 cm
5 Hz AVT, z = 4.0 cm
10 Hz AVT, z= 3.0 cm
10 Hz AVT, z = 4.0 cm
 
Fig. 3.4  Radial gallium profiles at 3.0 and 4.0 cm of the grown crystal with 5 and 10 Hz AVT. 
 
 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
-1 -0.5 0 0.5 1
r (cm)
C/
C 0
 (-
)
30 rpm ACRT, z = 3.0 cm
30 rpm ACRT, z = 4.0 cm
60 rpm ACRT, z = 3.0 cm
60 rpm ACRT, z = 4.0 cm
 
Fig. 3.5  Radial gallium profiles at 3.0 and 4.0 cm of the grown crystal with 30 and 60 rpm 
ACRT. 
 
 
32 
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
-1 -0.5 0 0.5 1
r (cm)
C/
C 0
 (-
)
No external force
5 Hz AVT
10 Hz AVT
30 rpm ACRT
60 rpm ACRT
 
Fig. 3.8. Comparison of radial concentration profile of crystal grown with and without external 
forces. (obtained by computer simulation)  
 
