中文摘要： 
為了提昇高科技產品之品質及功能，製造產品之材料需求已由傳統之均質材料趨向非均
質材料與奈米材料，當材料達到奈米尺寸時，會出現一般較大顆粒材料所沒有的特性，隨著
奈米材料科學的日益精進，尋求以奈米材料研發高附加價值產品正應運而生，在奈米材料產
品當中又以功能性奈米產品之產品特性最為高科技產業所重視，功能性奈米產品是指產品之
物化性可依據產品所設計之功能需求進行製造，例如：熱阻隔性、防靜電、電磁波遮蔽、吸
收紅外線功能、防污、抗腐蝕、抗菌、耐磨耗、光催化反應性、、、等等功能需求。傳統之
量測系統皆假設材料為大顆粒之均質材料，目前之自動化量測系統皆以此假設為前提下所發
展出來的，面對奈米材料產品應運而生，急需發展以奈米級材料特性為架構之自動化量測系
統。 
此外，為了建構完整的奈米產品電腦整合製造系統，產品品質線上自動化量測成為重要
關鍵技術，雖然各種量測奈米級材料物化性之方法相繼被提出，包括：掃描式探針顯微鏡、
原子力顯微鏡及精密光纖量測其物理性質，然而，這些量測方法之發展皆以奈米級原材料本
身之微結構/微成份檢測、物理學性質檢測為主，雖適用於實驗室及非線上量測(off-line)，但
並非以生產線上檢測為目的，對於以奈米級材料為材料所製造之功能性奈米產品而言，產品
品質之檢測系統功能除了線上自動化檢測之需求外，更必須能檢測產品物化性以及物化性之
均勻性，為了快速檢測奈米產品品質及調整相關製程，使奈米產品品質能達到所要求之標準，
同時加速產業界運用奈米材料對現有產品進行功能性改善。 
 
 
關鍵詞：奈米材料、自動化檢測、物化性 
characterizing the properties of individual nanostructures. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), 
on the other hand, has been applied to the characterization of the internal structures of 
nanomaterials [8-10]. Moreover, the comprehension about the properties of thin film in qualitative 
manner is intensively required to satisfy the needs of production process. The major quantitative 
items include the flatness of the surface, adhesion between film and substrate, dielectric constant or 
refractive index and its dispersion information of such film materials. Chen and his colleagues have 
deeply studied the flatness and adhesion of thin film [11]. Furthermore, it is crucial to know the 
dielectric constant or refractive index and its dispersion information of thin film materials.  
T-ray, which is electromagnetic radiation in a frequency interval from 0.1 to 10 THz, which 
occupies a large portion of the electromagnetic spectrum between the infrared and microwave 
bands, offers innovative imaging and sensing technologies that can provide information not 
available through conventional microwave and X-ray techniques [12-13]. Due to the relative long 
wavelength, the conventional time-domain spectroscopy does not provide the sensitivity to the 
measurement of thin film. In this paper, we propose a differential time-domain spectroscopy to 
determine the refractive index. The capability of measuring the dielectric constant is 
experimentally demonstrated. 
 
System Development: 
Unlike common optical spectroscopes, which only measure the intensity of light at specific 
frequencies, the developed time-domain spectroscopic system directly measures the temporal 
electric field. Fourier transformation of this time-domain data gives the amplitude and phase of the 
T-ray wave pulse, therefore providing the real and imaginary parts of the dielectric constant. This 
allows precise measurements of the refractive index and absorption coefficient of samples.  
In this system, a large-aperture photoconductive antenna and electro-optic crystal is used to 
generate a T-ray wave and an electro-optic crystal ZnTe is used to detect the T-ray wave. Figure 1 
shows a schematic diagram of the developed system. This system measures far-infrared 
spectroscopy. The mode-locked femtosecond laser beam is aligned through two irises, it is then 
separated into two pulses by a resolution beam splitter, namely, a pumping beam and probing beam. 
A half-wave plate is used to change the intensity ratio of the pumping and probing beam. The 
pumping pulse illuminates the T-ray emitter to generate a T-ray pulse in a forward direction. The 
emitter is a photoconductive antenna on a semi-insulating GaAs wafer. A high DC voltage is 
applied across the electrodes of the antenna to accelerate photoelectrons generated by the pumping 
beam. A transient photocurrent generates free-space radiation. A gold-coated parabolic mirror 
collimates the T-ray radiation, while the second one focuses the T-ray beam onto the T-ray sensor. 
A pellicle is placed after the second parabolic mirror to steer the probing beam. It allows the 
probing beam to travel collinearly with the T-ray beam inside of the EO crystal, where the probing 
beam is modulated by the electric field of T-ray radiation via the electro-optic effect.  
A quarter-wave plate, a Wollaston prism and a pair of photodiodes are assembled for the 
balanced detection of the probing beam. The time delay between the pumping and probing pulses is 
controlled by a motorized translation stage. The temporal waveform of the T-ray pulse is obtained 
by measuring the photocurrent from the detector versus the time delay. The frequency spectrum of 
the T-ray signal is obtained by the fast Fourier transfer method (FFT). The system is controlled by a 
computer through a Labview
 
supported program. The measured T-ray waveform and its Fourier 
transform spectrum are shown in Figure 2. In order to incorporate this system into CIM such as 
spraying/coating system and laser micro-machining processes as shown in Figure 3 & 4, an 
interface for remote control through GPIB is created. The structure and program of DataSocket 
server is shown in Figure 5. Figure 6 exhibits the remote control interface for operation of this 
measurement system. 
 
 
 
 
following equations: 
[ ]1 2( ) 1 ( ) ( )2
cn v v
vd
ν φ φπ= + −   ;  
1
2
( )( ) ln
2 ( )
E vck
vd E v
ν π
⎡ ⎤= − ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
 
Where φi and Ei are the phase and the amplitude of T-ray waveform respectively, d is the thickness 
of film under measuring and the subscripts 1 and 2 stand for the measurements with film and 
without film. Then, the dielectric constant（ε）of the thin film can be computed by the equation: 
( )2n ikε = −  
The real and imaginary parts of dielectric properties in frequency domain can be extracted 
through Fourier transformation from measured T-ray amplitude and phase in time-domain. Thus, 
experiments were conducted in time domain. The intensity of electromagnetic radiation (T-ray) can 
be calculated by: ( ) ( )21 exp aXLoI I R −= −  
Where I is the intensity of T-ray after penetrate sample, I0 is the intensity of T-ray before penetrate 
sample, R is the surface refractive coefficient of sample, a is the surface absorption coefficient of 
sample, and L is the thickness of sample. 
Figure 7 shows the response of T-ray to collagen powder. There is a specific spectrum of T-ray 
appear when the powder is inserted into measuring system. This will give us a chance to enhance 
the function of the developed system to identify or detect the types of material automatically. 
Figure 8 presents the phenomena that the intensity of T-ray decreases with the increasing of 
thickness. The peak amplitude is in 3.3ps without test sample. The spectrum slightly shifted about 
0.9ps for adding one polyester plastic sample. The thickness of each polyester plastic sample can 
be computed as 0.027mm (0.9psX3X108m/s), which is the same as desired.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion: 
Although many techniques and instruments have been developed to copy with the needs for 
measurements and testing of nanostructured materials and to adequately characterize the 
composition, microstructure and physical/chemical of nanostructured materials in the laboratory 
(or off-line). However, they are not designed for in-process measurement. In order to monitor 
product quality in-process and adjust manufacturing parameters to fabricate functional products to 
meet the designed requirements, the inspection system requires on-line, real-time and automatic 
capabilities. The developed sensing system is based on T-rays offer sub-millimeter resolution and 
is non-ionizing and therefore safer for nanomaterials when compared to the more common 
modalities such as x-rays. In addition to measure the dielectric constant and the refractive index in 
real time, the developed inspection system can be expanded to identify or detect the types of 
material automatically. 
 
 
Figure 7 T-ray of Collagen Powder 
 
Figure 8 T-ray of Polyester Plastic Material 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：95年 08月 01日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：電腦整合製造環境下之功能性奈米產品品質線上自動化
檢測研究 
計畫主持人：周 明         
計畫編號：NSC94-2213-E-003-005  學門領域：工業工程 
技術/創作名稱 功能性奈米產品品質線上自動化檢測系統 
發明人/創作人 周 明 
中文：傳統之量測系統皆假設材料為大顆粒之均質材料，目前之自
動化量測系統皆以此假設為前提下所發展出來的，面對奈米材料產
品應運而生，急需發展以奈米級材料特性為架構之自動化量測系
統。雖然各種量測奈米級材料物化性之方法相繼被提出，然而，這
些量測方法之發展皆以奈米級原材料本身之微結構/微成份檢測、
物理學性質檢測為主，雖適用於實驗室及非線上量測(off-line)，但
並非以生產線上檢測為目的，對於以奈米級材料為材料所製造之功
能性奈米產品而言，產品品質之檢測系統功能除了線上自動化檢測
之需求外，更必須能檢測產品物化性以及物化性之均勻性，為了快
速檢測奈米產品品質及調整相關製程，使奈米產品品質能達到所要
求之標準，同時加速產業界運用奈米材料對現有產品進行功能性改
善。 
技術說明 英文：Nanostructured materials are gradually used in manufacturing processes to improve the quality and functionality of products. 
Ensuring product quality through on-line, real-time, monitoring system 
has been and remains a major challenge and goal. In this study, we 
propose a differential time-domain spectroscopy to determine the 
refractive index. The capability of measuring the dielectric constant is 
experimentally demonstrated.The developed inspection system is based 
on the use of an ultrafast laser with pulse duration less 100 
femtosecond. A probing beam is generated by a set of electro-optical 
devices. The system is controlled by a computer through a Labview
supported program. The developed system directly measures the 
temporal electric field. This allows precise measurements of the 
refractive index and absorption coefficient of products. The results 
indicate that the system is able to determine simultaneously the index 
of refraction and dielectric constant for thin film. Also, it has sufficient 
sensitivity to perform these measurements on thin film.  
可利用之產業及 
可開發之產品 
產品品質線上自動化檢測系統適用於表面處理相關產業 
技術特點 線上自動化檢測 
推廣及運用的價值
快速檢測奈米產品品質及調整相關製程，使奈米產品品質能達到所
要求之標準，同時加速產業界運用奈米材料對現有產品進行功能性
改善。 
 
附件二 
 2
Considerable research studies were carried out to examine properties of nanomaterials. 
The mechanical properties of nanomaterials can have important application to the 
development of products. Scanning probe microscopy (STM) is proved to be a useful tool in 
manipulating and characterizing the properties of individual nanostructures. Transmission 
electron microscopy (TEM), on the other hand, has been applied to the characterization of the 
internal structures of nanomaterials [8-10]. Moreover, the comprehension about the properties 
of thin film in qualitative manner is intensively required to satisfy the needs of production 
process. The major quantitative items include the flatness of the surface, adhesion between 
film and substrate, dielectric constant or refractive index and its dispersion information of 
such film materials. Chen and his colleagues have deeply studied the flatness and adhesion of 
thin film [11]. Furthermore, it is crucial to know the dielectric constant or refractive index and 
its dispersion information of thin film materials.  
T-ray, which is electromagnetic radiation in a frequency interval from 0.1 to 10 THz, 
which occupies a large portion of the electromagnetic spectrum between the infrared and 
microwave bands, offers innovative imaging and sensing technologies that can provide 
information not available through conventional microwave and X-ray techniques [12-13]. 
Due to the relative long wavelength, the conventional time-domain spectroscopy does not 
provide the sensitivity to the measurement of thin film. In this paper, we propose a 
differential time-domain spectroscopy to determine the refractive index. The capability of 
measuring the dielectric constant is experimentally demonstrated. 
 
System Development: 
Unlike common optical spectroscopes, which only measure the intensity of light at 
specific frequencies, the developed time-domain spectroscopic system directly measures the 
temporal electric field. Fourier transformation of this time-domain data gives the amplitude 
and phase of the T-ray wave pulse, therefore providing the real and imaginary parts of the 
dielectric constant. This allows precise measurements of the refractive index and absorption 
coefficient of samples.  
In this system, a large-aperture photoconductive antenna and electro-optic crystal is used 
to generate a T-ray wave and an electro-optic crystal ZnTe is used to detect the T-ray wave. 
Figure 1 shows a schematic diagram of the developed system. This system measures 
far-infrared spectroscopy. The mode-locked femtosecond laser beam is aligned through two 
irises, it is then separated into two pulses by a resolution beam splitter, namely, a pumping 
beam and probing beam. A half-wave plate is used to change the intensity ratio of the 
pumping and probing beam. The pumping pulse illuminates the T-ray emitter to generate a 
T-ray pulse in a forward direction. The emitter is a photoconductive antenna on a 
semi-insulating GaAs wafer. A high DC voltage is applied across the electrodes of the 
antenna to accelerate photoelectrons generated by the pumping beam. A transient 
photocurrent generates free-space radiation. A gold-coated parabolic mirror collimates the 
T-ray radiation, while the second one focuses the T-ray beam onto the T-ray sensor. A 
pellicle is placed after the second parabolic mirror to steer the probing beam. It allows the 
probing beam to travel collinearly with the T-ray beam inside of the EO crystal, where the 
probing beam is modulated by the electric field of T-ray radiation via the electro-optic effect.  
A quarter-wave plate, a Wollaston prism and a pair of photodiodes are assembled for the 
balanced detection of the probing beam. The time delay between the pumping and probing 
pulses is controlled by a motorized translation stage. The temporal waveform of the T-ray 
pulse is obtained by measuring the photocurrent from the detector versus the time delay. The 
frequency spectrum of the T-ray signal is obtained by the fast Fourier transfer method (FFT). 
The system is controlled by a computer through a Labview
 
supported program. The measured 
T-ray waveform and its Fourier transform spectrum are shown in Figure 2. In order to 
 4
measured when the thin film is inserted into the T-ray beam. The frequency-domain 
information is obtained by comparing the Fourier transforms of the T-ray waveforms 
measured with and without the thin film. The real and imaginary of the refractive index, n 
and k respectively, can be obtained from the following equations: 
[ ]1 2( ) 1 ( ) ( )2
cn v v
vd
ν φ φπ= + −   ;  
1
2
( )( ) ln
2 ( )
E vck
vd E v
ν π
⎡ ⎤= − ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
 
Where φi and Ei are the phase and the amplitude of T-ray waveform respectively, d is the 
thickness of film under measuring and the subscripts 1 and 2 stand for the measurements 
with film and without film. Then, the dielectric constant（ε）of the thin film can be computed 
by the equation: ( )2n ikε = −  
The real and imaginary parts of dielectric properties in frequency domain can be 
extracted through Fourier transformation from measured T-ray amplitude and phase in 
time-domain. Thus, experiments were conducted in time domain. The intensity of 
electromagnetic radiation (T-ray) can be calculated by: ( ) ( )21 exp aXLoI I R −= −  
Where I is the intensity of T-ray after penetrate sample, I0 is the intensity of T-ray before 
penetrate sample, R is the surface refractive coefficient of sample, a is the surface absorption 
coefficient of sample, and L is the thickness of sample. 
Figure 7 shows the response of T-ray to collagen powder. There is a specific spectrum of 
T-ray appear when the powder is inserted into measuring system. This will give us a chance 
to enhance the function of the developed system to identify or detect the types of material 
automatically. Figure 8 presents the phenomena that the intensity of T-ray decreases with the 
increasing of thickness. The peak amplitude is in 3.3ps without test sample. The spectrum 
slightly shifted about 0.9ps for adding one polyester plastic sample. The thickness of each 
polyester plastic sample can be computed as 0.027mm (0.9psX3X108m/s), which is the same 
as desired.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion: 
Although many techniques and instruments have been developed to copy with the needs 
for measurements and testing of nanostructured materials and to adequately characterize the 
composition, microstructure and physical/chemical of nanostructured materials in the 
laboratory (or off-line). However, they are not designed for in-process measurement. In order 
to monitor product quality in-process and adjust manufacturing parameters to fabricate 
functional products to meet the designed requirements, the inspection system requires on-line, 
 
Figure 7 T-ray of Collagen Powder 
 
Figure 8 T-ray of Polyester Plastic Material 
