I. Introduction For the applications to low-pressure turbines, 
jets with unsteady suction have been studied to 
improve the efficiency than those with steady 
suction [12]. Besides, the vertical jet 
(perpendicular to the wall) showed to achieve 
more reduction in the extent of boundary layer 
separation comparing with the tangential one 
[13].  
In order to enhance the aerodynamic 
performance of high-lift devices, it is known 
that synthetic jets have been extensively used 
for separation control. Particularly, synthetic 
jets can improve the lift-to-drag ratio of the 
airfoil more efficiently than traditional jets. In 
comparison with the steady suction or blowing, 
synthetic jet only needs less than one or two 
orders of the momentum magnitude to achieve 
equivalent effects [1, 2]. Up to date, synthetic 
jets have been extensively applied to many 
applications, such as separation control [3-7], 
enhancing mixing, vectoring thrust, and noise 
control etc. Recently synthetic jet has been 
successfully applied to the cooling devices for 
microelectronics [8-10]. Although synthetic jets 
are similar to traditional jets, the uniqueness of 
the synthetic jet is using zero-net-mass flux 
(ZNMF) actuator. Basically, the synthetic jet is 
generated by the displacements of the 
continuous oscillating membrane in the actuator. 
The displacements of the membrane cause the 
flow to move out and into the orifice repeatedly 
which resulting in a train of vortex rings. 
Over decades, many researchers have put 
efforts on finding the optimal forcing frequency 
of synthetic jet. It has been reported by Seifert, 
Darabi and Wygnanski [14], by Nishri and 
Wygnanski [3] and by Amitay and Glezer [4] 
that the best performance is achieved when a 
non-dimensional frequency, so-called effective 
frequency ( +F ), approximates unity. The 
effective frequency is defined by , 
where  is the forcing frequency, L the chord 
length, and  the free-stream velocity. 
∞
+ = uLfF j /
jf
∞u
Suzuki [15] numerically studied the effects 
of synthetic jet acting on a separated flow over 
a hump in terms of two parameters - actuator 
position and forcing frequency. His direct 
numerical simulation (DNS) results showed 
that the periodic actuation significantly reduced 
the rate of vorticity production at the wall and 
shifted the centroid upstream so that the drag 
was reduced and the lift was increased. 
In this work, we aim to investigate the 
aerodynamic performance for synthetic jets 
acting on a flow over a half-cylindrical hump. 
In the past, the evolution of a synthetic jet and 
the flow mechanism of its interaction with a 
cross flow were reviewed by Glezer and 
Amitay [11]. Seifert et al. [1] applied the steady 
and oscillatory tangential blowing in order to 
enhance the aerodynamic performance on a 
NACA0015 airfoil at  based on 
the chord length. In their study, the oscillatory 
jet could achieve the same lift enhancement 
with the energy less than one order of 
magnitude comparing with the steady blowing 
one. 
6101Re ×=c
Although a few works have been done about 
the synthetic jet, the fundamental mechanism of 
the drag reduction by synthetic jet is still 
unclear. As mentioned by Suzuki [15] that a 
half-cylindrical hump is useful to analyze the 
unsteady separation control for external flows 
over a smooth surface which allows us to 
observe the variation in  aerodynamic 
performance as well as to measure the delay of 
the separation point. Therefore, the main 
 2
hump. The computed Strouhal number ( ) of 
the vortex shedding frequency is 0.161. This 
result is in good agreement with Suzuki [15] 
since his result is also 0.161. The 
grid-independent test is demonstrated in Fig. 4, 
where the coarse, medium and fine grids 
consist of 85951, 98367 and 117029 cells with 
non-uniform mesh distributions. It is found that 
the result of medium grid approximates the fine 
grid one. In consequence, the medium grid is 
adopted for the simulations hereafter. 
Sr
 
3.2 Parametric study 
In this section, a parametric study is 
employed to investigate the aerodynamic 
performance of synthetic jet acting on a flow 
over a half-cylindrical hump. In this work, the 
synthetic jet velocity is defined as  
 4
)2sin()( tfVtV joj ⋅⋅= π ,                 (3) 
where  is the maximum jet velocity. oV
Besides, it is straightforward to calculate the 
average jet velocity  by  aV
dttfV
T
V
T
joa ∫= 2/0 )2sin(2 π ,                 (4) 
where T is the period of one cycle. 
For parametric study, the actuator position, 
forcing frequency and average jet velocity are 
selected. The effects of these parameters will be 
separately discussed based on their 
aerodynamic performance. 
 
3.2.1 Actuator position 
In Fig. 1, the actuator position (θ ) denotes 
the jetting slot located on the hump surface. 
Five positions including 30o, 60o, 90o, 120o, 
and 150o are chosen for this study. In this 
section, the maximum jet velocity and forcing 
frequency are 0.625  and 0.99 for all test 
cases. Figure 5 shows the average drag 
coefficient ( ) versus different actuator 
positions. In Fig. 5, the horizontal solid line 
shows the value of the average drag coefficient 
for the unforced case as a reference and the 
triangle symbols correspond to different 
actuator positions. It can be seen that all 
average drag coefficients of different actuator 
positions are lower than the unforced one. In 
addition, the lowest average drag coefficient 
occurs at  and approximates 28% drag 
reduction comparing with the unforced case. 
Notably, the flow starts to separate at nearly 
 on the hump surface in this test case, 
which implies that the optimal actuator position 
occurring near the separation point. It is noted 
that the same conclusion has also been reported 
by Suzuki [15].  
∞u
dC
o90=θ
o90=θ
Furthermore, a substantial phenomenon is 
found in this work. In terms of the vortex 
shedding frequency, the vortex shedding 
behaviors can be classified into two types: (1) 
type I shows both the vortex shedding 
characteristics of main flow and the 
perturbations due to synthetic jet and (2) type II 
shows the vortex shedding characteristics of the 
synthetic jet only. For type II, the vortex 
shedding characteristics of main flow is 
essentially unable to recognize because of the 
effect of synthetic jet. In order to demonstrate 
the phenomena, the pressure histories measured 
at the location (x, y) = (2D, 0.25D) are shown 
in Fig. 6, where the solid line denotes the 
unforced case, dashed-dot line denotes the 
actuator position at and dashed line 
denotes the actuator position at , 
respectively. Apparently, the vortex shedding 
behavior is significantly influenced by the 
synthetic jet. In Fig. 6, it is observed that the 
pressure history of the case  can be 
classified as type 1 and the case  as 
o60=θ
o90=θ
o90=
o60=θ
θ
layer separation which forms a vortex street. In 
comparison with the unforced case, the vortex 
profile (V1) is much smaller. Besides, no vortex 
is formed in the trailing edge of the hump as 
shown in Figs. 9(e) to 9(h). Notably, the delay 
of separation point is also observed. These 
phenomena may be the reasons resulting in 
better aerodynamic performance or smaller 
drag coefficient. 
 6
Regarding to the aforementioned 
phenomena shown in Fig. 6, the variations of 
vortex shedding frequency between forced and 
unforced cases can be observed in Fig. 9. It is 
noted that forced case shows better 
aerodynamic performance regarding to the 
vortex shedding characteristics of type II. 
Particularly, vortex shedding behavior of type 
II only appears when actuator position at 
. For this reason, we may infer that the 
dominant factor is actuator position.  
o90=θ
 
IV. Conclusions 
In this paper, the effects of synthetic jet 
acting on a flow over a hump is investigated by 
using an incompressible parallel Navier-Stokes 
solver. It is found that the aerodynamic 
performance is essentially dominated by the 
actuator position. The better aerodynamic 
performance occurs while actuator position 
near the separation point. In this work, the 
optimal performance based on the average drag 
coefficient appears at ,  and 
. In the numerical experiments, jet 
frequency ( ) in the range of 0.06 to 0.1 
shows better performance when actuator 
position at . The evolutions of the 
vortex shedding are presented by using 
vorticity contours. It is found that the vortex 
shedding behavior is significantly changed and 
the separation point is delayed due to synthetic 
jet. These phenomena may be the important 
reasons for improving the aerodynamic 
performance. 
8.0=+F o90=θ
∞= uVo 625.0
sjF
=θ o90
 
References 
[1] Seifert, A., Bachar, T. and Wygnanski, I., 
“Oscillatory Blowing, a Tool to Delay 
Boundary Layer Separation,” AIAA Journal, 
Vol. 42, 1993, pp. 469-477. 
[2] Dandois, J., Garnier, E. and Sagaut, P., 
“Numerical Simulation of Active Separation 
Control by a Synthetic Jet,” Journal of Fluid 
Mechanics, Vol. 574, 2007, pp. 22-58. 
[3] Nishri, B. and Wygnanski, I., “Effects of 
Periodic Excitation on Turbulent Flow 
Separation from a Flap,” AIAA Journal, Vol. 36, 
no. 4, 1998, pp. 547-556. 
[4] Amitay, M. and Glezer, A., “Role of Actuation 
Frequency in Controlled Flow Reattachment 
over a Stalled Airfoil,” AIAA Journal, Vol. 40, 
No. 2, 2002, pp. 209-216. 
[5] Rumsey, C. L., Gatski, T. B., Sellers, W. L., 
Vatsa, V. N., Viken, S. A., “Summary of the 
2004 Computational Fluid Dynamics Validation 
Workshop on Synthetic Jets,” AIAA Journal, 
Vol. 44, No. 2, 2006, pp. 194-207. 
[6] Mittal, R., Kotapati, R. B. and Cattafesta, L. N., 
“Numerical Study of Resonant Interactions and 
Flow Control in a Canonical Separated Flow,” 
The 43rd AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting 
and Exhibit, AIAA-2005-1261, Reno, NV, 
2005. 
[7] You, D and Moin, P., “Active Control of Flow 
Separation over an Airfoil Using Synthetic 
Jets,” Journal of Fluids and Structures, Vol. 24, 
2008, pp. 1349-1357. 
[8] Kercher, D. S. et al., “Microjet Cooling Devices 
for Thermal Management of Electronics,” IEEE 
Transactions on Components and Packing 
actuator position (θ)
av
er
ag
e
C
d
0 30 60 90 120 150 180
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
unforced
synthetic jet
 
 
Fig. 1 Schematic diagram of synthetic jet acting on 
flow over a hump 
 
Fig. 5 Effects of actuator position on average drag 
coefficient 
 Fig. 2 Partitioned grid of triangular mesh for 
parallel computation 
t
pr
es
su
re
70 75 80 85
-2
-1
0
1
2
unforced
θ=60o
θ=90o
 
t
pr
es
su
re
50 55 60 65 70
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
(x,y)=(2D,0.5D)
(x,y)=(2D,1D)
 Fig. 6 Pressure histories of unforced case and 
forced cases at  and . o60=θ o90Fig. 3 Pressure history measured at different 
locations for unforced case 
F+
av
er
ag
e
C
d
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
 
t
pr
es
su
re
60 65 70 75
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
coarse
medium
fine
 Fig. 7 Effects of the effective frequency on average 
drag coefficient Fig. 4 Grid-independence test 
 8
 10
計畫成果自評 
 
(1) 研究內容與計畫相符程度 
本研究為延續上一年度的計畫，以數值方法探討合成噴流作用於半圓柱突起物對分離流的影響，研
究主要根據噴流位置、噴流速度、噴流頻率等參數對氣動力表現的影響來探討合成噴流作用於半圓柱
突起物的效果，以探討最佳參數的可行性，並透過流場視流化來探討物理現象，以期對本問題有更深
入的瞭解。由計畫目前進度與成果顯示，現階段本研究之成果大致符合計畫所規劃的內容。 
 
(2) 達成預期目標情況 
本計畫目標為探討設計參數組合噴流位置、噴流速度、噴流頻率等參數對氣動力表現的影響，並根
據 Suzuki(2006)的建議，利用半圓柱突起物來探討合成噴流的應用於主動流場控制的影響，由計畫目
前進度顯示，所開發的數值模擬工具可以正確地模擬合成噴流之作用半圓柱突起物之流場，藉由目前
數值模擬的結果對於合成噴流的噴流位置、噴流速度、噴流頻率對氣動力表現的影響已有更進一步的
認識，因此本研究已大致達成現階段預期目標。 
 
(3) 研究成果的學術或應用價值 
本研究為延續上一年度的計畫，利用已發展能正確預測具合成噴流之數值模組來探討改良致動器設
計、提升分離流場控制效果、有效改善氣動力特性、瞭解重要參數對氣動力特性的影響等。計畫成果
將對先進主動流場控制的發展具有重要意義，也可成為合成噴流相關研究的有用參考。現階段累積之
研究成果為成功開發可以正確模擬合成噴流之流場的數值模擬模組，探討設計參數組合來提升致動器
的表現，探討合成噴流作用於半圓柱突起物的噴流位置、噴流速度、噴流頻率對氣動力表現的影響與
改善分離流的效果，目前結果可以作為合成噴流相關研究的重要參考，並且是本研究下階段工作的重
要基礎。 
 
(4) 是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利 
本研究規劃為多年期計畫，現階段成果已陸續發表於知名期刊[24]與國內外之學術研討會
[19-23]，也獲得不錯的迴響，現階段之成果也將整理並投稿到國際學術期刊，待計畫完整執行後應
可累積豐碩之成果。 
 
(5) 主要發現或其他有關價值 
本計畫現階段主要成果為根據合成噴流作用於半圓柱突起物的噴流位置、噴流速度、噴流頻率等參
數對氣動力表現的影響來探討合成噴流在主動流場控制的效果，主要研究成果為噴流位置靠近分離點
可以有效提高氣動力表現，並且改變渦流曳放的頻率。 
 
 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-426-004 
計畫名稱 合成噴流用於主動流場控制之數值探討(II) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳驊 助理教授 立德大學資訊傳播學系 
會議時間地點 2008/7/19~2008/7/24 St. Petersburg, Russia 
會議名稱 27th International Symposium on Shock Waves 
發表論文題目 Parametric Study of a Micro Jet Excited by Shock/Interface Interaction by Numerical simulation 
 
一、 會議簡介 
 
本次會議是在 St. Petersburg, Russua舉辦的 27th International Symposium on Shock Waves
國際研討會。本次會議的舉行時間為 2009年 7月 19日到 7月 24日，與會專家學者來自世界
各地，此研討會為兩年舉辦一次，本研討會提供了一個相當好的知識交流平台，與會專家學
者能藉此機會交換最新的研究資訊，本會議包含在震波、爆震波、爆炸波相關的實驗、數值
或理論研究，在此相關領域中是相當重要的一個研討會。 
 
本次會議的投稿論文共收錄 8 篇 plenary lecture、150 多篇口頭報告論文、將近 100 篇
poster，會議時程安排為 2008年 7月 19日到 7月 24日，第一天為註冊，緊接著是會議研討，
在第四天也貼心的安排景點觀光、第五天晚上為晚宴、最後一天是閉幕式。每篇論文含提問
約報告 20分鐘，同一時段有三場平行場次，因此必需選擇參與有興趣的專家學者報告，本研
討會的特色為注重專家學者的意見交流，議程安排了足夠的討論時間，對於問題的深入認識
相當有幫助，有別於一般研討會的緊湊議程，令人印象深刻，大會也安排了觀光行程，對於
與會專家學者的彼此交流互動提供了相當好的機會，透過此機會也認識了國際知名的專家學
者，對於日後研究有相當大的幫助。 
 
本人此次發表了 “Parametric Study of a Micro Jet Excited by Shock/Interface Interaction by 
Numerical simulation”一篇論文，屬於口頭報告。內容主要是探討微噴流(micro jet)的形成機
制，透過參數分析來對其噴流生成機制作一更深入的研究，本次與會的專家學者對於噴流生
成的學理都有獨到的見解，不論在數值方法與物理問題上都有充分的討論，藉由本會議的交
流，對於本研究將來進行的方向與目標有相當大的助益，也對本物理問題本身有更深入的瞭
解。 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Direct numerical simulations of temporal mixing layer of binary-mixture H2/O2 
 
Fig. 2 Numerical simulation of shock focusing on parabolic reflector 
 
第五場為 E. E. Meshkov，來自 Russian Federal Nuclear Center，其演講題目是 “Shock tube 
investigations of the instability of a two-gas interface accelerated by a shock wave”。主要報告內容
為利用 shock tube 實驗來探討具有不同密度的兩種氣體經由震波的加速所產生的介面不穩定
性。 
 
第六場為 G. Jagadeesh來自 Dept. of Aerospace Engineering, Indian Institute of Science，其
報告題目為 “from explosions to drug devlivery – changing paradigms of shock wave research”。
其報告內容主要是展示其設計的新可攜帶式微爆炸波輔助藥物傳遞系統 (Fig.3)，此裝置能以
非侵入式的方式來輔助藥物傳遞或是 gene coated micro particles，一些延伸的生物醫學實驗已
證明該裝置的可用性。 
Science and Technology，所發表的 “Numerical investigation on the reacting muzzle flow”。
內容主要提到當釋放高速拋射體時所產生的高溫與負氧燃料產物與粒子成長與拋射體交
互作用所產生的複雜物理問題與化學反應，其研究以數值模擬的方式來進行，利用 AUSM 
scheme求解介面 flux與 two-stage Runge-Kutta schemey作時間積分。 
 
 
 
(3) B. C. Khoo 等人，來自 Department of Mechanical Engineering, National University of 
singapore，所發表的 “Computational simulation of detonation transition using a detailed 
chemical reaction model”。內容主要提到利用 conservative Euler equation，燃燒模式則是使
用 H2-O2用 Ar稀釋的混合物，使用 9 species of fuels與 19 step reactions，此燃燒模式是
在 C-J condition下相對較安定的一個，該研究主要發現存在最小寬度比率以維持過渡後的
detonation，此外反射震波對於 detonation recovery的影響也有討論。 
 
(4) O. P. Shatalov與 Y. V. Tunik來自 Institute of Mechanics of Moscow State University，其報告
題目為 “Supersonic gas-flow chamber of hydrogen detonation combustion”。其內容是考慮在
軸對稱超音速噴嘴中氫氣與空氣混合物的瞬時模擬與自燃現象，流體結構與燃燒穩定性也
有討論，並且燃燒所產生的推力也有計算。 
 
(5)  Y. Zhu 等人，來自 Center for Interdisciplinary Research, Tohoku University，報告題目為 “A 
thermally summarized reaction model for stiochiometric acetylene-oxygen detonations”。內容
提到在數值模擬 detonation 現象時，其所包含的化學反應式一般可以分為 elementary 
reaction mechanisms (ERM)和 global reaction mechanisms (GRM)，在報告中他提出一個簡單
的反應模式，根據 ERM，透過定量分析來簡化全部的熱力反應過程，研究結果顯示簡化
模式之結果可以與 ERM model大概符合。 
 
(6) H. Otsu 等人，來自 Shizuoka University, Japan，報告題目為 “Impact of the rarefied gas 
effects on the aerobraking flight with magnetic flow control”。報告內容主要為磁力流體控制
是做為未來進入大氣層的飛行載具先進科技，在其所設計的系統上，利用電流與 Lorentz 
force所引出的電漿流體包覆，透過實驗與數值方法來研究。電磁作用參數 VLB ，
其中
Q ρσ /2=
σ是 electric conductivity、B磁通量密度、L參考長度、ρ大氣密度、V是飛行速度，
此參數可以視為是 Lorentz force與動壓的比值，因此Q值越大代表此系統越有效運作。研
究顯示 Navier-Stokes equations無法正確模擬此現象，因此 DSMC模擬將用來計算阻力與
軌跡分析，Fig. 4為進入大氣層時飛行載具周圍的流體示意圖。 
 
統的裝置是可比較的，此裝置是利用微量炸藥來誘發 micro blast wave，實驗結果顯示此技
術在適當改良後能有效使用於 introduction of macromolecules including DNA 到不同的細
胞型態。 
 
(10)M.-S. Liou來自 NASA Glenn Research Center, USA，其報告題目為 “Recent development of 
AUSM and applications to high speed flows”。其內容主要是簡介了 AUSM-family scheme過去
的演進與應用，並針對以下幾點加以詳述: (1)改進 AUSM fluxes的準確性與穩定性；(2)改善
壓力的邊界條件；(3)如何應用於高階算則。其展示的測試結果顯示 AUSM scheme 能很成功
地應用於高階算則，其穩定性也有所提升。 
 
其他學者的精采報告，則可參考會議論文摘要集，以上只節錄本人認為重要或感興趣之
論文心得與內容。 
 
三、 參加會議心得 
 
基本上，本次 27th International Symposium on Shock Waves國際研討會舉辦的相當成功，
所有與會學者都能彼此認識與交流，在會議最後也推舉了由英國曼徹斯特大學來舉辦下一屆
的研討會 ISSW28，所有學者也大都接受主辦單位的熱情邀約願意繼續參與下一屆的會議，本
研討會的規模已經具有相當規模，是此研究領域最重要的研討會，參與國家也包含了世界各
地，主辦單位也期待下一次的規模能比這次更大，讓本研討會能更加具有影響力與競爭力。 
 
本人很高興能參與此次研討會，由研討會過程中發現台灣學者在此領域還需要繼續努
力，此次來自台灣的專家學者僅有兩位，今後應更積極參與並主辦相關研討會以加強我國學
術地位的提升。此外，也發現目前國際上此領域的研究重點已轉移至極音速流、detonation、 
多相流等領域，這是相當重要的訊息，我國也刻不容緩應跟上世界的潮流。 
 
藉由參與此次研討會能提升自己的國際觀與能見度，並且與知名學者的互動更能有效提
升自己學術能力與視野，整體來說，能參與此次研討會具有相當重要的意義，對於未來執行
計畫與研究上，也有實質的幫助，最後本人對國科會的支持深表謝意。 
 
四、 攜回資料與相關資訊 
 
(1) 會議論文摘要集(Book of Proceedings)一本與相關資料等 
(2) 大會議程手冊一份 
(3) 一些與會學者之名片與討論資訊 
 
