1電化學法合成奈米結構氧化鎳複合電極及其在電致色變與電化學電
容特性之研究
Electrochromic and electrochemical capacitive properties of nanostructured nickel oxide
composite electrode synthesized by electrochemical deposition
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-151-027
執行期限：96年08月01日 至 97年07月31日
主持人：吳茂松 國立高雄應用科技大學化學工程與材料工程系
1. Abstract
Nanostructured nickel oxide film is
synthesized directly onto a transparent and
conducting indium tin oxide coated glass
substrate by electrochemically anodic
deposition from an aqueous solution. The
deposited nickel oxide film has an
intercrossing nanoflake and highly porous
morphology. X-ray diffraction peaks of the
film resemble closely to the cubic NiO
structure. The deposited film oxidized/reduced
electrochemically at 0.36V and 0.25V versus a
saturated Ag/AgCl electrode respectively,
which corresponds to the reversible changes in
coloration and bleaching. The difference in
optical response (transmittance), T, at
wavelength 550nm between the colored state
and bleached state can reach as high as 80%.
Keywords: nickel oxide, electrochromic,
porous electrode, nanostructured materials,
and electrodeposition.
2. Introduction
Electrochromic materials have attracted
attention in recent years because they show
reversible optical changes upon
intercalation/de-intercalation of the ions or
protons, in which the transfer is controlled by
an outer voltage source. When the unique
optical property of the electrochromic
materials is combined with a transparent
conducting glass such as an indium tin oxide
(ITO), the electrochromic component may be
applied onto architecture windows, known as
the smart windows. Generally electrochromic
materials are categorized into organic and
inorganic, in which the inorganic transition
metal oxides such as WO3,1-6 NiO,5-8
MnO2,9,10 and MoO311 are the most widely
studied. Within the transition metal oxides,
nickel hydroxides and nickel oxides receive
scholars’attentions for they are anodic colour
formation (the color changes from transparent
to brownish-black); and when they are paired
up with WO3 of cathodic colour formation, the
resultant electrochromic component is called
the complementary electrode.12,13 There exist
many synthesizing methods for nickel oxides,
such as sputter,14-18 sol-gel,19,20 spin coating,21
vacuum evaporation,22 and anodic
deposition.23,24 Among these synthetic
methods, electrochemical deposition
technique has one advantage over the others:
weight and thickness of the nickel oxide film
may be easily controlled by controlling the
current, bath composition, and bath
temperature. However, electrode composed of
nanoparticle is difficult to fabricate by the
traditional slurry coating method, because
nanoparticles have poor dispersibility in slurry
(composed of solvent, nanoparticles, polymer
binder, and conducting agent, etc.). Thus, it is
more advantageous to have the electrode
fabricated by the direct electrochemical
3Figure 2 shows the crystalline structure
of the deposited nickel oxide film after
annealing at 300oC using a GAXDR. In
addition to the peaks for ITO, three more
diffraction peaks locate at 37.3° (111), 62.9°
(220), and 75.4o (311) are cubic nickel oxide
with lattice parameters of a = 4.1771 Å and
the space group Fm3m (225) (nickel oxide,
JCPDS 47-1049). The mean grain size of the
deposited nickel oxide has been calculated
using Scherrer’s equation with diffraction
peak at 2=37.3o: D=0.9/(cos), where is
the X-ray wavelength, is the full width at
half maximum (FWHM), and is the Bragg
angle. The calculated grain size is about 2.8
nm.
Cyclic voltammogram of the deposited
nickel oxide film in 1M KOH aqueous
electrolyte is shown in Fig. 3a (scan rate 10
mV s-1). For the first few cycles,
oxidation/reduction current peaks fall at 0.36V
and 0.25V respectively. As the cycle increases,
the current peaks start to move outwards. The
peak amplitudes, representing the current
values, also increase as cycle increases, then
finally stabilize. Fig. 3b, the optical
transmittance of the deposited nickel oxide
film at wavelength 550 nm, shows that the
transmittance changes as the CV cycle
increases. At 5th cycle, coloration
transmittance (Tc) by oxidation decreases to
about 50%; at the 20th cycle, only 25% is left;
and when cycle reaches 40 where the
transmittance finally stabilizes, Tc decreases
to approximately 14%. Of all the CV scan, the
deposited nickel oxide film has a constant
transmittance in bleached state (Tb), the
variation is less than 94%. The difference in
transmittance between the colored state and
bleached state (T% = Tb-Tc) is
approximately 80%. The difference in
transmittance for the sputter,14 pulsed laser
deposition (PLD),26 chemical precipitation,27
and sol-gel19 were reported as 40, 48, 53.9,
and 38 %, respectively. The intercrossing
nanoflake (network) configuration provides
much more paths for electron conduction, and
the flake-like structure shortens proton
diffusion paths within the bulk of solid nickel
oxide. In addition, the porous structure
benefits electrolyte penetration and provides
larger surface area for charge-transfer
reactions. Therefore, the optical and
electrochemical results of the deposited nickel
oxide film are improved.
Figure 4 shows the optical response for
the deposited nickel oxide film at colored and
bleached states at difference wavelength (300
~900 nm). Curves a, b, and c are all at
bleached states; curve a shows the nickel
oxide film right after annealing, curve b shows
the nickel oxide film being continuously
oxidized with a constant voltage of -0.2V,
curve c shows the nickel oxide film being
oxidized at -0.2V for 60 seconds then rest for
5 seconds. The three curves are almost
identical. When comparing curve b and c, the
drop in curve c after voltage shut-off is slight
yet pronounced. As the voltage is kept
constant (curve b), the transmittance at
bleached state at 550 nm reaches as high as
95%; but as the voltage is shut-off for 5
seconds (curve c), the transmittance value
drops to 90% or below.
In the coloration state (curves d and e),
curve d shows the nickel oxide film being
oxidized at 0.5V for 60 seconds then rest for 5
seconds, curve e shows the nickel oxide film
being continuously oxidized with a constant
voltage of 0.5V. When the two curves are
compared, the transmittance does not drop
after voltage shut-off (curve d); the
