 2
server console and the PXA255 on 
board embedded system find a shortest 
path from the current location to the 
target product location assigned by user 
on the LCD screen. This evidence 
proves the success of the framework 
process. This software framework 
allows user to store the whole smart 
shopping application scenario in the 
design pattern repository. Further 
extension of this pattern can be 
exercised for creating other ZigBee 
applications such as patient localization 
in a hospital environment, item retrieval 
in large scale storage ware house, and 
green power energy saving applications 
etc.  
Keywords: Embedded Software      
framework, ZigBee application pattern, 
Design reuse, ZigBee based code 
generation. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
    802.15.4/ZigBee is a new 
short–range wireless communication 
standard that possesses the possibilities 
of unifying various sensor, actuators, 
devices and asset tracking equipments.  
It uses battery-powered devices with low 
data rate and low duty cycle to provide 
building a cost affordable and reliable 
network backbone, and can be used in 
many applications such as industrial 
automation, utility metering, building 
control and even toys. The current 
version of ZigBee protocol uses the 
short-distance wireless communication 
standard of IEEE 802.15.4, and the 
upper layer and application layer are set 
up by ZigBee Alliance. The advantages 
of low-cost and low power consumption 
make it widely acceptable in both 
domestic and overseas markets. A 
research from market research company 
In-Stat/MDR shows the global ZigBee 
market will be rapidly expanding at a 
compound annual growth rate of 200% 
between 2004 and 2009 and is expected 
to reach 150 million units shipped in 
2011. Meanwhile, the cost will be 
significantly reduced up to $ 10 level in 
accord with that predicted in [7]. Texas 
Instruments has announced that the unit 
shipment for the ZigBee chip was $ 6.5 
(thousand of unit) in July 2007 [8]. 
    While wireless sensor network 
drives the trend toward low-cost, in 
many industrial applications, it is not 
this factor that impacts on the rapid 
deployment of products on the markets 
but the changeable application 
environment and design requirements.  
For example, ZigBee has to interface 
with different servers and sensors, and 
sometimes even ZigBee itself are 
manufactured by different manufacturers. 
How to rapidly construct application 
software for different design 
requirements and operate smoothly are a 
challenge. Once a solution is found, it 
could as well become a useful tool to 
enhance final product circulation rate on 
the markets. In case customers’ demand 
changes a lot, the framework can 
quickly deploy working software in the 
target environment and to meet the 
customer’s initial requirements. This 
feature can improve customer 
satisfaction, increase the circulation rate 
of product, and thus enhance the 
profitability for customers. Currently 
design companies rely on human labor 
to develop application software for 
customers, on which to control the time 
and software quality is not a very 
satisfactory solution. For this reason, it 
is necessary to develop a set of 
embedded software framework for 
meeting the different hardware 
requirements, system configuration and 
quick software turn around time. This 
framework requires a lot of reusable 
components, system parameters setting 
that can be flexibly reset and adjustable 
functions that ensure a stable quality. 
This research integrates the embedded 
software framework (VERTAF & 
VMC)[13] and standard ZigBee 
component library under the Open 
 4
modification. SysML serves as a 
medium between pattern development 
and code generation. State diagrams and 
class diagrams help describes a specific 
application scenario. These modeling 
mediums are then fed into the code 
generation engine of Quantum platform 
for code synthesis and generation. 
ZigBee application normally interfaces 
with different peripheral devices such as 
sensors and controllers. Both automatic 
device API supports and library are 
integrated with the architecture mapping 
function of code gen. model. Now we 
introduce the content of each module 
and its role one by one. After integration 
of the tool, we use the software tools to 
construct a smart shopping cart 
application for testing the integrity of 
the software framework tools. 
 
Fig. 1 Pattern based ZigBee embedded 
software automatic generation 
framework 
 
3.1 Pattern 
extraction/transformation 
Applying design patterns always 
makes the system easy to maintain, 
extend or resolve certain design issues 
[9], [10], [11]. Developers can apply a 
design pattern by a modeling tool to 
create the skeleton as represented in the 
brief structure of the pattern description 
instead of revising the original design.  
The question is how do we confirm that 
the pattern is right and the usage is 
correct. If the developer does not 
understand the purpose or usage of a 
pattern clearly, it may cause design 
errors or inconsistency. 
In order to specify a pattern 
formally and apply a pattern by model 
transformation, we divide a pattern into 
six parts as presented in Fig. 2: 
• Pattern description: the general 
description with different sections, such 
as motivation, consequence, etc. 
• IF: Functional Requirement Intent 
(FR-intent), describing what does the 
pattern do. 
• IN: Nonfunctional requirement Intent 
(NFR-intent), describing how well can 
this pattern contribute to quality 
attributes or design properties. 
• SF: FR-structure, representing the 
structure that can realize the IF. 
• SN: NFR-structure, representing the 
structural that can enhance the IN. 
• T: Transformation specification, 
representing the mapping from SF to 
SN. 
 
Fig. 2 ZigBee Design Pattern 
Architecture 
 
The pattern transformation provides 
pattern designers to specify pattern 
refinement process in formal 
transformation language and revise a 
raw design to an enhanced design 
automatically. As a whole, system 
designers can pick up a pattern which is 
appropriate for improving a raw design 
from pattern repository, and the raw 
design conforms to the SF of the pattern.  
 6
test grid site and an actual shopping cart 
equipped with a PXA255 board. The 
board is connected with a ZigBee sensor 
serving the role of communication with 
other reader tags. This localization grid 
uses 10~15 ZigBee sensors to construct 
rudiment of wireless localization of 
backbone network as is shown in Fig. 4. 
As is displayed in the figure there are 
two sub-areas. Each contains six 
symmetrically fixed ZigBee reference 
tag and one fixed reader tag in the center 
of the venue, represented by a square 
and rhombus. Fixed reader tag is 
responsible for connecting with all the 
reference tags and gateway. The fixed 
sensor in the center of the figure, 
connected with a notebook, is the 
gateway. When the user roam around the 
workplace pushing the shopping cart, 
the system will begin to calculate the 
location of the activity tag through this 
backbone network, and update and store 
it in the database of the server console. 
Fig. 5 shows the architecture of smart 
shopping cart deployment environment.  
There are several major modules 
including a location server, a reference 
reader module, a visual display module 
consisting of a PXA255 board and a 
ZigBee reader node and a master reader 
node responsible for communication to 
the location server. Fig. 6 further 
illustrate the interaction relation among 
different system components which is 
used in the code gen. for state machine 
interactions. Fig. 7 shows the operation 
scenario of the intelligent shopping cart 
deployment. Users first select his/her 
favorite dishes intended to buy in the 
supermarket. Then the corresponding 
recipe is displayed on the display panel 
of the PXA255 board together with 
different ingredients for that specific 
menu. In the mean time the system 
constantly update the current location of 
the shopping cart and refresh the screen 
for real time current position display. 
User then select the interested ingredient 
to shop for, the system then 
automatically displays the shortest route 
from the current location to the target 
ingredient merchandise location. There 
several inter-communications among 
different system modules. Each of the 
modules will be modeled as QP active 
objects, and the commands and data are 
modeled as messages to activate each of 
these QP objects in different timing in 
different sequences.  
Fig. 4 ZigBee localization system 
deployment 
 
 
Fig.5 Localization service state diagram 
 
 8
touching the PXA255 display board, the 
system automatically find a shortest path 
from the current location to the target 
ingredient location. The process is snap 
shot  and shown in Fig. 12. User picked 
pork in the lower row of the screen, and 
the display panel immediately display a 
red path from the red dot to the yellow 
dot where the pork zone is located. To 
illustrate the full functions of the whole 
framework of modeling and automatic 
code generation, we move the cart 
around the actual shopping field. The 
actual locations are then compared with 
the estimated locations calculated from 
the location server. The precision of 
localization has been recorded in Fig. 13. 
The estimation error is first re-evaluated 
by placing the tag back to each of the 
cross hairs on the black lines on the lab. 
floor. The deviations from the actual 
placements on the floor grid are then 
redistributed among all grid points and 
shown as displacement arrows sign in 
Fig. 13 using least square fit. The results 
show an acceptable average deviation 
error within a range of 20 cm. The 
proposed framework is used generate the 
code for serial of action and reaction 
between events such as user inputting 
food selection and server broadcasting 
the cart locations and PXA255 board 
drawing the shortest path between the 
source and target shopping zones. 
 
Fig. 8 State machine design process of 
the PXA255 board 
 
 
Fig. 9 State machine design process of 
the ZigBee reference node 
 
Fig. 10 Simulated shopping site, front 
side is a shopping cart, while far side is 
a server machine 
 
 
Fig. 11 Electronic map of shopping site 
 
 10
robots. Int. Journal of Robotics 
Research, 24(9):771–786, Oct. 2005. 
[6]http://taiwan.cnet.com/news/ce/0,200
0062982,20100263,00.htm 
[7]http://www.stpioneer.org.tw/modules.
php?name=St_News&pa=Show_News&
tid=596 
[8] http://www.ti.com/zigbee 
[9] Charles Blilie, “Pattern in Scientific 
Software: An Introduction,” IEEE 
Computing in Science and Engineering, 
Volume 4, Issue 3, pp.48-53, May 2002.  
[10] L. Prechelt, M. Philippsen, B.U. 
Lamprecht, and W.F. Tichy, “Two 
Controlled Experiments Assessing the 
Usefulness of Design Pattern 
Documentation in Program 
Maintenance,” IEEE transaction on 
software engineering, 28(6), June 2002.  
[11] B. Huston, “The Effects of Design 
Pattern Application on Metric Scores,” 
The Journal of systems and software, 
58:261–269, 2001.  
[12] Nattapong Swangmuang, Prashant 
Krishnamurthy, “An effective location 
fingerprint model for wireless indoor 
localization”, Pervasive and Mobile 
Computing 4 , 836–850, 2008. 
[13]Chao-Sheng Lin, Pao-Ann Hsiung, 
Shang-Wei Lin, Yean-Ru Chen, 
Chun-Hsien Lu, Sheng-Ya Tong, 
Wan-Ting Su, Chihhsiong Shih, 
Nien-Lin Hsueh, Chih-Hung Chang, and 
Chorng-Shiuh Koong, 
“Vertaf/Multi-core: a Sysml-based 
application framework for multi-core 
embedded software development”, 
Journal of the Chinese Institute of 
Engineers, Vol. 32, No. 7, pp. 985-991, 
2009. 
[14] P.-A. Hsiung, S.-W. Lin, C.-H. 
Tseng, T.-Y. Lee, J.-M. Fu, and W.-B. 
See, “VERTAF: An Application 
Framework for the Design and 
Verification of Embedded Real-Time 
Software Engineering, Vol. 30, No. 10, 
pp. 656-674, October 2004. 
 
 
 
本計畫自評 
    這些研究成果可以直接減少人力
參與繁複ZigBee程式設計的程度，對
加速嵌入式資訊家電計算速度的程度
有直接的衝擊，不只具有市場之價
值，同時在學理上亦可驗證設計樣式
及軟工理論對商場應用之影響。此為
學術上從未報導的現象。現正整理成2
篇論文要投到Journal of System and 
Software及IEEE Transaction of SOA。 
 
 
2 
 
二、 與會心得 
 
  在 2011 International Conference on Data Engineering and Internet 
Technology (DEIT 2011)國際研討會中，許多關於模型樣式的模組設計的新觀
念與突破，以及目前發展趨勢的討論均讓本人受益良多。特別是以視覺化的介面
以及嵌入式源碼的研究提供了模型為基礎之ZigBee嵌入式應用軟體研發發展的
新思維。目前本研究室的研究方向以ZigBee嵌入式軟體設計工具系統之架構及
效能調校支援實作，與目前各國的研究方向大不相同，探究其中原因在於，目前
大家大致認為多核心嵌入式軟體設計的基礎研究已經受到ㄧ定的限制，不容
易有新的突破，因此，目前的研究方向大致往設計工具系統之架構及商場應用實
作的方向研究，同時著重於模組樣式的研究。 
  不過，在ZigBee的效能提升上亦是嵌入式的一個方向，本研究室 應繼續朝
向將ZigBee軟體設計自動化的方向努力，發展出一良好的圖 形化介面，如此ㄧ
來，結合目前UML模組技術與本研究室的架構才能將ZigBee的效能發展到極
至。對於ZigBee嵌入式軟體之研究中，最重要同時亦是最難克服的一個課題就是
快速佈設軟體及整合硬體，針對整合瓶頸之不同需求，既要求其準確性、緻密性
或異質性，同時亦要求其可靠性，從之前的研究結果及本次與相當多國際學者之
討論，讓本人深信，以模組化及模型化各種異質整合議題及優化技巧，可以說是
ZigBee嵌入式軟體快速開發相當強而有力且相當具競爭力的一種方法。近年
來，許多的國家投入相當多的人力與物力在Zigbee的應用 研究上，因為這是一個
學術發展及科技創新的新課題，同時也是下一 世紀國力與創新力的表現。相信在
不久的將來，將本研究室的成果與國際間新思維整合，Zigbee嵌入式軟體的性能
將會有新的突破。 
 
  無線感測網路(WirelessSensorNetworks，WSN)透過ZigBee技術帶出應用市
場的一片天空，然而，隨著無線感測技術的進步、802.15.4/ZigBee等規格
的制定，也象徵著無線感測網路已經逐漸走向標準化，吸引上下游企業相繼投入
研究與產品開發，結合無線環境感知技術 (WirelessContext–awareTechnology)就
4 
 
論文被接受發表之大會證明文件 
 
6 
 
發表之論文摘要 
 
A pattern based reusable Zigbee software deployment framework 
 
Abstract—An automatic embedded software generation framework that can 
create and evolve Zigbee applications is proposed.  The framework consists of two 
major modules, pattern extraction and code generation.  Pattern extraction and 
development are designed to provide Zigbee application with model reuse and 
modification.  SysML serves as a medium between pattern development and code 
generation.  State diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagram help describes 
a specific application scenario.  A smart shopping cart application has been 
implemented using this pattern based software framework.  The current location 
of a shopping cart has been monitored constantly by the WSN network through a 
signature sensing technique implemented by our lab.  Both the electronic map on 
the server console and the PXA255 on board embedded system find a shortest 
path from the current location to the target product location assigned by user on 
the LCD screen.  This evidence proves the success of the framework process.  This 
software framework allows user to store the whole smart shopping application 
scenario in the design pattern repository.  Further extension of this pattern can be 
exercised for creating other Zigbee applications such as patient localization in a 
hospital environment, item retrieval in large scale storage ware house, and green 
power energy saving applications etc.   
 
Keywords-Embedded Software framework, Zigbee application pattern, Design reuse, 
Zigbee based smart shopping cart 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：朱延平 計畫編號：99-2220-E-029-005- 
計畫名稱：可快速布設無線感測網路整合軟體框架-以智慧型賣場購物環境建構為例--植基於設計樣式
之快速布設 Zigbee 嵌入式軟體框架 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
