一、摘要： 
本計畫初始目的在於探討變晶式高電子
遷移率電晶體的方位效應對於元件特性的影
響，並且試圖利用方位效應來成長自我組成
量子線。實驗結果並未發現元件在不同方向
呈現不同的特性，但是成長量子點於變晶式
緩衝層上的行為卻顯示選擇性分佈。 
 
This project had been aimed initially at 
studying the orientation effect on the device 
characteristics of metamorphic high electron 
mobility transistors and its application on the 
self-assembled growth of quantum wires. Our 
experimental results don’t show noticeable 
orientation effect, but selective growth of 
quantum dots on the metamorphic buffer layer 
has been observed. 
 
關鍵詞： 
變晶式緩衝層 
(metamorhpic buffer layer; MBL) 
量子點 
(quantum dot; QD) 
分子束磊晶成長 
(molecular beam epitaxy; MBE) 
X 光倒晶格圖譜 
(x-ray reciprocal space mapping; x-ray RSM)  
 
二、介紹： 
InAlAs/InGaAs metamorphic high electron 
mobility transistors (mHEMTs) on GaAs sub-
strates have attracted much attention recently 
because this technology combines the excellent 
high-frequency and low-noise performances 
inherent in InP-based HEMTs with the lower 
cost, larger wafer size, less fragility, and more 
mature processing of GaAs substrates [1-2]. 
Furthermore, the indium composition of the 
InGaAs channel material can be freely chosen 
to meet the specific requirements of high-speed 
operation or high breakdown characteristics 
[3-4]. To obtain high quality mHEMT epitaxy 
wafers, the metamorphic buffer layer (MBL), 
which is used to accommodate the dislocations 
caused by the lattice mismatch between GaAs 
and InAlAs, plays the key role in epitaxy 
growth. 
The cross-hatch pattern is normally seen on 
the wafer surface of GaAs-based metamorphic 
InAlAs structures. This is caused by the energy 
relaxation which is built up due to the lattice 
mismatch between the metamorphic InAlAs 
epitaxy layer and the GaAs substrate. Although 
the surface pattern looks like cross hatch, the 
[1-10] direction shows much more obvious 
elongation than the [110] direction [5-7].  
Quantum dots (QDs) is a hot topic in re-
cently years. Among various approaches of 
producing QDs, Stranski-Krastanow (SK) 
growth mode is the most promising technique 
to grow self-assembled QDs. The SK-mode 
epitaxial growth of QDs is extremely sensitive 
to the growth conditions. 
In this project, we plan to investigate the 
growth behavior of InAs QDs on top on the 
InAlAs metamorphic structures. Atomic force 
microscopy (AFM), photoluminescence (PL) 
and high resolution x-ray diffraction reciprocal 
space mapping (HRXRD RSM) are used for 
sample characterization. 
 
三、研究方法： 
The epi wafers were grown by solid-source 
molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) on 
(100)-oriented semi-insulating GaAs substrates. 
The schematic epitaxy structure is shown in Fig. 
1. The structure  consists of a 0.6-μm 
inverse-step linearly-graded InxAl1-xAs MBL 
with the indium content varying from 0.01 to 
0.31, followed by a 100-nm In0.25Al0.75As layer 
and a 200-Å In0.25Ga0.75As layer. Then InAs 
QDs were grown and capped with a 500-Å  
In0.25Ga0.75As layer. Finally QDs were grown on 
the top of the wafer for AFM measurement. 
Two different growth temperatures (400 and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
In0.25Al0.75As   1000 Å
In0.25Ga0.75As   200 Å
In0.25Ga0.75As   500 Å
In%
InAs 
QD
InxAl1-xAs (x=0.01~0.31)
metamorphic buffer layer
0.6 μm
In%
G
ro
w
th
 S
eq
ue
nc
e
G
ro
w
th
 S
eq
ue
nc
e
[110]
[110]
–
[110]
[110]
–
Fig. 1 
Fig. 3 
Fig. 2 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
一、參加會議經過 
9/16/2007   起程 (台北 → 美國 拉斯維加斯) 
9/17~21/2007  會議議程 (美國 拉斯維加斯) 
9/21/2007  回程 (美國 拉斯維加斯 → 台北) 
 
二、與會心得 
This meeting covered all aspects of group-III nitride semiconductors with special emphasis on 
epitaxial growth, bulk crystals, theory, materials issues, defect engineering, structural analysis, 
optical characterization, nanostructures, and devices. However, I found that the most popular topic 
addressed in this meeting was GaN light-emitting diodes (LEDs) and their applications in 
solid-state lighting. Besides, high-power GaN high electron mobility transistors (HEMTs) also 
attracted much attention from the audience, although it still did not match LEDs in the listening 
interest of the audience. 
Among a vast number of presentations provided in this meeting, I personally was most 
impressed by the following ones: 
¾ “Gross well-width fluctuations in InGaN quantum wells” given by Colin Humphreys from 
University of Cambridge. This invited talk discussed on the gross fluctuations in InGaN quantum 
well (QW) width that have been observed in commercially-available green LEDs. AFM and TEM 
studies of epilayers and QWs reveal that these fluctuations arise from a network of interlinking 
InGaN strips, which were found to be indium-rich at their centers. Plan-view TEM indicates that 
~90% of all threading dislocations intersect the QW plane between the InGaN strips. Excitons may 
be located at the strips’ centers, preventing non-radiative recombination at threading dislocations. 
¾ “ThinGaN power-LED demonstrates 100 lm at 527 nm” provided by Matthias Peter of OSRAM 
Opto Semiconductors GmbH. The author reported a significant improvement of output power for 
green LEDs thanks to the recent progress in epitaxy and improved 1 mm2 chip design. 99.1 lm at 
350 mA were demonstrated for a 1 mm2 ThinGaN chip at 527 nm, mounted in a Dragon package 
with spherical lens. Efficacies of 113 lm/W at 100 mA and 73 lm/W at 350 mA have been achieved. 
¾ “Deeply recessed AlGaN/GaN HEMTs with deep submicron gates” given by Rongming Chu 
from University of California, Santa Barbara. Without using the field plate, they minimized the 
device dispersion by having the device surface far from the 2DEG. The fabricated device has a 
saturation current of 0.75 A/mm and a gate-drain breakdown of around 50 V. The extrinsic fT and 
fmax are 65 and 136 GHz, respectively. The microwave power measurements at 30 GHz show an 
output power density of 3 W/mm with the associated PAE of 38% for the un-passivated HEMT 
devices biased at 25 V. These results suggest the deep submicron recess as a promising technology 
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-018-022 
計畫名稱 變晶式高電子遷移率電晶體之方位效應及其應用於量子線磊晶成長的研究
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
吳正信 
國立彰化師範大學 電子工程系 助理教授 
會議時間地點 September 16-21, 2007. Las Vegas, Nevada, USA. 
會議名稱 7th International Conference of Nitride Semiconductors 
發表論文題目 A comparative study on single and double channel AlGaN/GaN high electron mobility transistor 
