 2 
 
目 錄 
 
 
一、 中英文摘要及關鍵詞 
 
二、 計畫內容及成果 
2.1 總計畫 
2.2 子計畫分述 
 
三、 參考文獻 
 
四、計畫成果自評 
 4 
2. 英文摘要 
 
Energy and environmental concerns are intricately linked to the supply chains of various goods.  
Increased public awareness of such issues is reflected in the contemporary business environment as well 
as government legislation. It is necessary to apply systematic techniques to quantify the environmental 
impacts of supply chains, and to identify opportunities for making improvements. This attributes to the 
life cycle management of a product.  In particular, to urge a manufacturer to produce a product with 
higher production cost, which is the case for a green product, legislation is one way; market demand is 
the other.  Therefore, in order to develop effective marketing strategies under minimum environment 
impact, investigation of life cycle management of green products from two aspects of supply chain 
management as a push force; and demand chain management as a pull force needs to be carried out. 
However, consumers, in general lack of knowledge on recognition of green products; and the 
enterprises don’t have sufficient information from consumers’ preference. To bridge this gap in order to 
achieve global aim of environment protection, it is important to build up a knowledge service system for 
both consumers and enterprises. This is our aim achieved by this aggregate project. 
After 3 years of devotion, based on previous market demand information, the overall system has been 
developed as a 3-module knowledge service platform leading by (I). Information Retrieval & 
Recommender System which then integrates 2 most important modules of (I). In-Plant Production 
Management and (II). Off-Plant Logistics Management.   
Both theoretical and application aspects have been shown that this aggregated project has achieved its 
goals of development.  
 
Keywords : Knowledge Service Platform, Green Product Life Cycle Management;  Analysis  and 
Resolution  
 
 
二、計畫內容及成果 
 
2.1 總計畫 
Energy and environmental concerns are intricately linked to the supply chains of various goods.  Increased 
public awareness of such issues is reflected in the contemporary business environment as well as government 
legislation. It is necessary to apply systematic techniques to quantify the environmental impacts of supply 
chains, and to identify opportunities for making improvements. This attributes to the life cycle management of 
a product.  In particular, to urge a manufacturer to produce a product with higher production cost, which is 
the case for a green product, legislation is one way; market demand is the other.  Therefore, in order to 
develop effective marketing strategies under minimum environment impact, investigation of life cycle 
management of green products from two aspects of supply chain management as a push force; and demand 
chain management as a pull force needs to be carried out. 
    Figure 1 shows a life cycle of a green product.  Based on this figure, the life cycle management of a 
green product can be divided into two sectors of in-plant and off-plant management as below : 
 
 6 
Suppliers Manufactures DCs Customers
Forward: shipping
Reverse: recover 
shipping
Dismantlers
(recyclers)
sh
ip
p
in
g
sh
ip
pi
ng
recycling
landfilling
shipping
      
 Fig. 2 The Framework of Green Supply Chain Logistics [Shu & Wang, 2007] 
 
Although market demand is a driving force for a manufacture to produce products which are “green”, all 
the market demand in our project is input information.  From a value chain of green products, it makes 
business sense to explore how green product design contributes to create value for customers. Since 
consumption is a major factor determining overall environmental load created. While on promotion of green 
products, environment impact retains its concern.  Therefore, developing market strategies for a company 
with higher eco-value products in order to maximize environmental and economic product profitability have 
been developed in our service-information and recommender module. That is, from a business perspective, 
sub-projects 4 and 5 not only ensure the material flows of in-plant/off-plant management along the green 
production and logistics, but also manage the product profitability by delivering tailor made solutions for each 
consumer group.  
Therefore, understanding customers’ awareness and preference towards green products for customer 
segmentation will pay the way for the development of effective marketing strategies and this will be 
investigated in the 3
rd
 Sector.  Two topics intended to study along this line are the transition structure of the 
purchasing behavior of the customers; and the pricing policy which relates to the tolerance level due to 
greenness.  
In summary, this aggregated proposal was drawn from three main aspects we are interested in a life-cycle 
management of a green product. For functional purposes, the solutions will be developed into 4 respective 
modules within an overall system as shown in Figure 3 of which 5 most basic core issues are investigated by 
corresponding experts from different universities via sub-projects listed in the following: 
                                                                                    
I. In-Plant Production Management 
1.   Combining Long-Term and Short-Term Supplier Selection Criteria in the Green Supply Chain Systems: 
An Analytical Approach (UPWen) 
2.   Inventory Rationing Decision Models during Vendor Replenishment Lead Time(YF Hung) 
 
II. Off-Plant Logistics Management 
3.  A Game-approach Decision Making for Reverse Supply Chains(Ethan Hong) 
 
 8 
 
Fig. 3  GSCM System with Modules  
 
 
IV. Information Retrieval & 
Recommender System 
I. Demand Chain   
Management 
II. In-Plant 
Production 
Management
III. Off-Plant Logistics 
Management
         
 
 10 
  Supply Selection Strategies in a Green Supply Chain: An Analytical Approach 
 
Abstract 
With increasing concern toward environmental protection, pressures are exerted on enterprises to “think 
green” in every aspect of a company’s operation. Green supply chain management (GSCM) is emerged as a 
systematic solution for companies to maintain their sustainability and competitiveness in the market. Among 
issues of GSCM, green supplier selection is a crucial problem as a start point to improve environmental 
performances since a good supplier helps to supply materials that comply with international regulations, such 
as Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and 
Eco-design Requirements for Energy using Products (EuP). This project includes traditional and partnership 
criteria regarding supplier selection. A sound decision framework which integrates the strength of analytic 
hierarchy process (AHP) and analytic network process (ANP) is proposed. Besides, we take advantage of 
ELECTRE III which allows analyzing different types of criteria without converting them into a single scale. It 
also has the characteristic of non-compensatory and considers the situations of incomparability and 
indifference, which makes the ranking result even truly reflect the DMs’ opinion. To overcome the limitations 
of the method, we develop it into a Two-Phase ELECTRE III method, and with the result, suitable green 
suppliers are recommended to the DMs. In this project, we provide a more useful result by making good use 
of the discrimination threshold, which haven’t been discussed in the previous studies. In the illustrative 
example, we obtain the weights provided by the analytic hierarchy process (AHP) method. We compiled a 
brief summarize of the advantages and disadvantages of ELECTRE III method and AHP method respectively 
to show that the favorable characteristics of determinations of weights of the AHP method could enhance 
ELECTRE III method. 
 
Keywords: Supplier Selection, Green Supply Chain, Analytic Hierarchy Process, Analytic Network Process, 
ELECTRE III 
 
 Project related publications (U.P. Wen) : 
1. H.S. Shih, C.B. Cheng, U.P. Wen, Y.C. Huang and M.Y. Peng, “Determining Subsidy Rate for Taiwan's 
Recycling Glass Industry: An Application of Bi-level Programming,” Journal of the Operational 
Research Society, (30 March 2011) | doi:10.1057/jors.2011.13. (SCI, SSCI). 
2. C.T. Tsui and U.P. Wen, “Developing Green Selection Procedure,” (in preparation), 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
關鍵字：存貨配給；卜瓦松過程；庫存管控策略；決策支援 
 14 
  Sub-project 3: 分權式綠色供應鏈之離廠回收運籌管理 
 
計畫編號：NSC97-2221-E-002-263-MY3 
主 持 人：洪一薰  
台灣大學工業工程所 
 
摘要 
 
隨著地球暖化的議題日漸增溫、資源日漸耗竭及環保法規逐漸落實，壽期結束之產品的回收、再
使用及減量已是產官學界現在所面臨迫在眉睫之問題。封閉型供應鏈包含廠內生產管理及離廠運籌管
理。本子計畫主要目的為針對產品在壽期結束後之離廠運籌逆向回收管理系統，預測及描述該系統內
各別個體之行為表現及績效，而離廠運籌管理之績效將會影響產品回收再製造之流程，進而影響到廠
內生產管理及需求鏈管理。 
 
本研究擬考慮多階分權式逆向供應鏈系統，假設該系統由上游邊界層、中間階層及下游邊界層所
組成，每個階層由一群獨立運作的個體所組成，每個獨立的個體在決策時有各自的考量，個體的決策
變數會影響到系統內其它個體的表現。多數逆向供應鏈之文獻以中央集權式的基本架構來規劃相關決
策，在中央集權式系統中，系統規劃者知悉個體的資訊並訂定個體之決策變數使得系統表現最佳化，
然而，現存逆向供應鏈經常是由各自獨立運作的個體所組成。本研究設計之分權式決策過程機制可用
來求解獨立運作個體之決策變數：均衡收購價格及個體間交易之流量。本研究主題 1 以中央集權式之
觀點，發展相對應於分權式規劃方法之求解模式，以做為兩種規劃方式之比較及分析，結果發現以中
央集權式決策方法來描述分權式供應鏈系統，所求得之結果容易過分樂觀預期系統之表現。本研究主
題 2 針對政府、責任業者、資源回收業者與消費者所組成之資源回收系統，探討政府所訂定之最適補
貼費率及回收清除處理費、責任業者最適產量以及資源回收業者的最適處理量。主題 3 探討政府補貼
政策對系統總回收量之影響。 
 
關鍵字：分權式逆向供應鏈；均衡收購價格；補貼政策；補貼及徵收費率 
 16 
 Publication List (I-Hsuan Hong): 
1. Hong, I-Hsuan, Jane C. Ammons, and Matthew J. Realff, “Examining Subsidy Impacts on 
Recycled lectronics Material Flows,” Waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) 
handbook.  V. Goodship, Ed.  Woodhead Publishing. (in press)   
2   Hong, I-Hsuan, and Jhih-Sian Ke, “Determining advanced recycling fees and subsidies 
 in “e-scrap” revere supply chains,” Journal of Environmental Management, 92(6),  
1495-1502, 2011.   
3. Dang, Jr-Fong, and I-Hsuan Hong, “The Cournot game under a fuzzy decision environment,”  
Computers & Mathematics with Applications, 59, 3099-3109, 2010.  
4. Hong, I-Hsuan, and Jun-Sheng Yeh, “Modeling closed-loop supply chains in the  
electronics industry,” Under revision for Transportation Research: Part E. (Submitted  
August 2010; revision requested December 2010) 
5. Dang, Jr-Fong, and I-Hsuan Hong, “The Cournot production game with fuzzy 
random parameters,” Under review for Information Sciences. (Submitted September 
2010)   
6. Dang, Jr-Fong, I-Hsuan Hong, and Jing-Ming Lin, “The Cournot production game 
with multiple firms under an ambiguous decision environment,” Under review for 
Computers & Industrial Engineering. (Submitted August 2011) 
Refereed Conference Proceedings 
 
1. Dang, Jr-Fong, I-Hsuan Hong, and Jing-Ming Lin, “The Cournot production game 
with multiple firms under fuzzy business environment,” The 21st International 
Conference on Flexible Automation and Intelligent Manufacturing, June 2011, 
Taichung, Taiwan.  (NSC97-2221-E-002-263-MY3) 
2. 劉毓真、許修齊、 鍾頡、洪一薰、鄧志鋒, "採購價格與數量呈現正比關係之
合約設計模型," 中國工業工程學會暨學術研討會, December, 2010, Tainan, 
Taiwan.  (論文競賽優勝)  (NSC97-2221-E-002-263-MY3) 
3. 羅俊豪、游絃婷、洪一薰、鄧志鋒, "逆向供應鏈於電子產業之回收模式," 中
國 工 業 工 程 學 會 暨 學 術 研 討 會 , December, 2010, Tainan, Taiwan.  
(NSC97-2221-E-002-263-MY3) 
4. Dang, Jr-Fong, and I-Hsuan Hong, “The Cournot production game with entropy 
spreads” The 40th International Conference on Computers & Industrial 
Engineering, July 2010, Awaji Yumebutai, Hyogo, Japan.  (Best Student Paper 
Award)  (NSC97-2221-E-002-263-MY3) 
5. 鄧志鋒、林峻銘、洪一薰, "模糊環境下之 Cournot 賽局模型應用與分析: 動
態隨機存取記憶體 ," 中國工業工程學會暨學術研討會 , December, 2009, 
Taichung, Taiwan.  (NSC97-2221-E-002-263-MY3) 
 18 
  Sub-project 4:  綠色3C產品資訊與推薦系統之設計與評估 
 
主 持 人：*李英聯/  黃雪玲/  黃斐慧 
*朝陽科技大學工業工程與管理學系 
 
摘要  
 
隨著環保意識的抬頭，企業也逐漸重視綠色消費及綠色行銷。而在這個電子商務發達的時代，透
過數位化媒介或技術所進行的行銷手法也較傳統更多元富豐，推薦系統就是這類新興行銷手法的一個
絕佳範例。推薦系統會依使用者特性、網頁瀏覽的歷史紀錄、商品關聯性、購買紀錄或熱門商品等，
做為產品推薦的參考依據，提升使用者購買產品的機會。 
本研究欲了解消費者的綠色認知、態度及購買綠色產品偏好等行為，使消費者能經由推薦系統做
適合的購買決策。研究步驟是先建置一個消費者調查的網站，內容包含綠色產品滿意度調查和受測者
背景題項，其中背景題項作為群聚分析的依據，透過群聚分析將受測者分為若干群，以綠色產品滿意
度調查所蒐集的資料，應用適應性類神經模糊推論系統分別為每一群集及每位受測者建構適應性類神
經模糊模型，並運用產品屬性聯合分析方法，為各群集找出產品的重要屬性。 
本研究發現為個別受測者建置之適應性類神經模糊模型，其預測值與實際值之間的差距不大且準
確性高，可嘗試運用於網路推薦系統當中，作為個人化推薦使用。於產品屬性聯合分析，環境關心程
度高的消費者，參與綠色活動踴躍並且重視產品的綠色程度，而對於環境關心程度低的消費者，參與
綠色活動較為被動，對產品的綠色程度較不重視。 
 
關鍵字：綠色行銷、綠色消費者行為、推薦系統、群聚分析技術、適應性類神經模糊推論系統、聯合
分析 
 20 
 Publication List (Ying-Lian Lee): 
1. 碩士論文 
蔡宗錡，群體訊息的揭露對產品綠色評價的影響（Effects of herd signal disclosure on the evaluation of 
product greenness） 
王生鼎，應用適應性類神經模糊於綠色產品之推薦（Application of Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy theory to the 
Recommendation of Green Products） 
陳科淳，在線上購物環境中購物輔助對有利於環境行為意向的影響（Effect of shopping aids on 
pro-environment behavioral intention in online shopping environment） 
 
2. 研討會論文 
Hsu, C.-H., & Lee, Y.-L. (2011). Effects of age groups and distortion types on text-based CAPTCHA tasks. 
Paper presented at the The 14th International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction. 
Lee, Y.-L. (2010). Display/Control quality in small touch based screen. Paper presented at the 3rd Applied 
Human Factors and Ergonomics, Miami, Florida, USA. 
Lee, Y.-L., Huang, F.-H., & Hwang, S.-L. (2009). Green Advocate in E-Commerce. Paper presented at the 
The 13th International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction. 
Huang, F.-H., Lee, Y.-L., & Hwang, S.-L. (2009). E-shopping behavior and user-web interaction for 
developing a useful green website. Paper presented at the The 13th International Conference on 
Human-Computer Interaction. 
 
3. 期刊論文 
Lee, Y.-L., & Huang, F.-H. (2011). Recommender system architecture for adaptive green marketing. Expert 
Systems with Applications, 38(8), 9696-9703. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 22 
 Structural Approach to Mechanism Development of Web-based Information 
Retrieval & Recommender System 
 
Abstract  
Environmental problems urge us to think how we survive for the future with less environmental global 
damage. In order to protect environment from further damage, European Union has developed various 
regulation such as WEEE、RoHS and EuP for, in particular, 3C products, which has caused great impact to our 
enterprises . 
  Due to the problem of global warming, green supply chain management, in particular, closed-loop 
logistics and management, has drawn the attention of researchers. Although there were logistics models that 
were examined in the literatures, most of them were case based and not in a closed-loop. Therefore, they 
lacked generality and couldn’t serve the purposes of reduce, reuse and recovery required in a green supply 
chain. In this study, we shall provide a decision module which will support a manufacture to make the 
following decisions related to the recycling: 
1
st
. . Self process or outsourcing strategies of recycling management 
2
nd
. Delivery and Pick-up strategies with the least number of vehicles and minimum operation cost 
3
rd
. Locations and closed-up logistics along manufactories, distribution centers, and dismantlers with the 
minimum risk and maximum satisfaction. 
Therefore, after evaluating the strategy of recycling, models of integrating the forward and reverse 
logistics with facility locations will be investigated from both global optimization and risk management 
viewpoints.  
Due to the severe risk of legislation violation along the life cycle, risk management including risk analysis 
and control will be proposed after the risk factors are analyzed.  
Genetic algorithms will be developed by using determinant encoding representation for solving this NP 
model and its variations. The results will be compared and evaluated with respect to the Solomon’s test 
problems under the defined assumptions so that the generality, accuracy and efficiency of the proposed model 
and algorithm will be compared and evaluated. 
 
 
Keywords : Recommender System Development, Experimental Studies and Evaluation 
  
 24 
三、 參考文獻 
 
  
1. Asif, M. & Muneer, T. (2007). Energy supply, its demand and security issues for developed and 
emerging economies. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 11: 1388 – 1413. 
2. Azapagic, A. & Clift, R. (1995). Life cycle assessment and linear programming environmental 
optimization of product systems.  Computers and Chemical Engineering 19: 229 – 234. 
3. Azapagic, A. & Clift, R. (1999). Life cycle assessment and multiobjective optimization.  Journal of 
Cleaner Production 7: 135 – 143. 
4. Beomon, B.M. (1999). Design a green supply chain. Logistics Information Management 12 (4), 332–342 
5. Boks, C. and O. Pascual (2004). The Role of Success Factors and Obstacles in Design for Environment: 
A Survey among Asian Electronics Companies. ISEE 2004, Phoenix (AZ). 
6. Desai, P., S. Kekre, et al. (2001). "Product Differentiation and Commonality in Design: Balancing 
Revenue and Cost Drivers." Management Science 47(1): 37-51. 
7. Ehrenfeld, J. (2005). "Eco-efficiency, Philosophy, Theory, and Tools." Journal of Industrial Ecology 9(4): 
6-8. 
8. Figge, F. and T. Hahn (2005). "The Cost of Sustainability Capital and the Creation of Sustainable Value 
by Companies." Journal of Industrial Ecology 9(4): 47-58. 
9. Fleischmann, M., Bloemhof-Ruwaard, J., Beullens, P., Dekker, R. (2003). Reverse Logistics Network 
Design. In: Dekker, et al. (Eds.), Reverse Logistics – Quantitative Models for Closed-Loop Supply 
Chains. Springer-Verlag, Berlin, pp. 65–94. 
10. Handfield, R. B., S. A. Melnyk, et al. (2001). "Integrating environmental concerns into the design 
process: The gap between theory and practice." ISEE Transactions on Engineering Management 48(2): 
189-208 
11. Heijungs, R. and Suh, S. 2006. Reformulation of matrix-based LCI: from product balance to process 
balance. Journal of Cleaner Production 14: 47 – 51. 
12. Jansen, H. (2001). "Induced Institutional Change in the Trade and Environment Debate." Environmental 
and Resource Economics(18): 149-172. 
13. Jayaraman V, Guide J. and Srivastava R. (1999). A closed-loop logistics model for re-manufacturing. 
Journal of the Operational Research Society;50:497–508 
14. Minner, S. (2001). Strategic safety stocks in reverse logistics supply chains. International Journal of 
Production Economics 71, 417–428. 
15. Park, P., K. Tahara, et al. (2005). The Producer and Consumer-based Eco-Efficiencies and their 
Application to Ecodesign. Ecodesign 2005; 4th International Symposium on Environmental Conscious 
Design and Inverse Manufacturing, Tokyo. 
16. Pascual, O., C. Boks, et al. (2005). Ecodesign Standardization in Electronics Industry. EIASM New 
Product Development and Management, Copenhagen. 
17. Pujari, D., G. Wright, et al. (2003). "Green and competitive Influences on environmental new product 
development performance." Journal of Business Research(56): 657-671. 
18. Sakao, T., C. Oberender, et al. (2006). Evaluating Customer Requirements in Eco-VA. 13th CIRP 
International Conference on Life Cycle Engineering, Leuven.  
 26 
 
四、國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 本整合型計畫以利用一資訊與推件系統成功將綠產品生命週期中從廠內至廠外
所建構之供應鏈整體系統如期建構完成。 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 ■未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
在此計畫中已發表論文 20篇；尚未發表論文 8篇；會議論文 7篇;書章 1篇；書
4本 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 綠色產品生命週期管控之知識服務系統
計畫主持人: 王小璠
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-007-092-MY3 學門領域: 資訊系統
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計畫研究期間除個別子計畫主持人參與相關之國際研討會、發表研究成果
外，總計畫所舉辦的國內產學研討會(20102)及國際綠價值鏈研討會
(20091,20103)均引起國內外產學界相當的迴響。尤其第二屆 International 
Greening Optimization Forum 將由澳洲於 2012 年初接辦，無形中提升發起國
的我們在國際上的學術聲譽。 
 
1. Chair of the International Workshop on Green Supply Chain Management 
-Trend of Methodology Development and Applications, Nov.26-29, Taiwan, 
2009 
2. Chair of Mini-Workshop on Green Supply Chain Management, May 14, Tsing 
Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, 2010 
3. General Chair, ’International Greening Optimization Forum’, Dec. 
10-13, TsingHua University, 2010 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
