experts, we aim in this project to continue the large-scale WSN 
deployment in NTU Hospital that provides reliable/accurate real-
time patient safety alerts.  The medical team in this project will 
advise and assist in the evaluation of the system usability.  The 
technical team will work towards fulfilling the hardware and 
software need, in particular, (1) interference resilient localization, 
and (2) reliable sensor data communication.   
We achieve in 2 years devising the necessary system functionality 
improvement, and in turn provide a stable and robust location 
tracking system for everyday care in BeiHu. In particular, the 
proposed frequency hopping mechanism effectively reduces the 
localization error for approximately 50% and the cross-layer 
designed data collection mechanism improves the data collection 
rate to 100%. For each of the 2 research focuses, we have published 
a conference/workshop paper, submitted the extended version for 
journal publication, and applied for patents in TW and US. 
 
 
 2
 
ABSTRACT 
This is part of a larger-scope integrated project focusing on the total care of heart failure patients 
using SOC-based devices and wireless sensor networks.  In the first phase (the past 3 years) of the 
project, we have successfully developed the necessary hardware and software components to deploy a 
running multi-hop wireless sensor network with indoor localization functionality.  Taking advantage 
of the wireless communication capability and the localization function, we implemented a critical area 
alert service to remind the nurses and staff ubiquitously of uninformed leave of absences from the 
patients.  The system has undergone the necessary checks to obtain the approval of hospital use.  We 
are now working with the doctors, nurses, staff, and the patients on evaluating the system’s usability.  
Having the support of a strong team of engineers and medical experts, we aim in this project to 
continue the large-scale WSN deployment in NTU Hospital that provides reliable/accurate real-time 
patient safety alerts.  The medical team in this project will advise and assist in the evaluation of the 
system usability.  The technical team will work towards fulfilling the hardware and software need, in 
particular, (1) interference resilient localization, and (2) reliable sensor data communication.   
We achieve in 2 years devising the necessary system functionality improvement, and in turn 
provide a stable and robust location tracking system for everyday care in BeiHu. In particular, the 
proposed frequency hopping mechanism effectively reduces the localization error for approximately 
50% and the cross-layer designed data collection mechanism improves the data collection rate to 100%. 
For each of the 2 research focuses, we have published a conference/workshop paper, submitted the 
extended version for journal publication, and applied for patents in TW and US. 
 
 4
二、報告內容 
2.1 背景 
本計劃為「心衰竭病患生醫檢測系統晶片及無線感測網路系統之設計及製作」整合型計畫
中一個關鍵性子計劃。以病人醫後完全照護之概念為主軸，研發從醫院→照護療養→家庭之完全
照護之無線感測網路系統。延續第一期於臺大醫院北護分院的執行成果，本子計畫在第二期主要
施力點為病人醫後完全照護中之照護療養階段。台大醫院北護分院 5 樓為護理之家，以開刀過後
無明顯住院需要、但又未能返家自行護理的病患居多。多數病患年事偏高且能在院區自由行走。
其中，有不少是長年居住的病患。在台大醫院本護分院中，醫護人員的工作除了醫療，這些病患
的「居院安全」照顧與「日常休閒活動」規畫也是工作重點之一。 
在第一期的計畫中，本團隊與北護分院經過多次溝通，構思出以「自動化病患安全」為主
軸的系統發想。並在 2008 年 6 月完成全台第一個多跳式無線感測網路（Multi-hop Wireless Sensor 
Network）於實體醫院中的佈建。緊接著，完成了「離院警示」服務的軟體撰寫與硬體改良。於
2008 年 10 月通過倫理委員會同意，並完成與病患的實驗同意簽署，目前正與院方合作進行系統
對病患安全照護功能的評估。在這個以 SOC 為主的大型計畫中，本子計畫擔任一個必須肩負異
質 SOC 整合、嵌入式系統、無線通訊協定、測試（展示）平台、與跨領域專家溝通管道等多個
責任的吃重角色。過去將近三年來的努力，我們在微型異質系統開發、無線通訊協定、室內定位
技術、平台建置、甚至於長期與醫護夥伴之間合作所培養出的互信都經營有成。這個延續計畫所
規劃的研究項目完全是針對目前已建置之系統未來能可靠且穩定運作的需求設計。所累積的經驗
也讓我們相信能在第二期計畫中勝任愉快。 
從市場面說，我國老年人口數量與比例在民國 82 年底已高過 148 萬老人（佔總人口之
7.1%），達到聯合國所界定之「高齡化」水準。以我們在北護分院的觀察，本子計畫所開發的
系統，在國內逐漸興盛的照護療養機構中也有高度的需求。未來商業價值可期。 
從無線感測網路研究的角度切入，過去無線感測系統與網路的研究以網路協定設計為主，
其中又以 MAC[1][2][3]與 routing[4][5][6][7]方法的研究為大宗。百家爭鳴，不同的設計各有適用
的應用與情境。有鑒於學術界對實際應用的了解有限，近幾年來無線感測系統與網路的研究走向
明顯朝向應用開發(Sensor Network Application)。應用導向最佳化(Application-Driven Optimization)
將為未來幾年各家發揮創意與實力的必爭之地。 
我們在 2008 年成功複製這樣的網路建置經驗，完成台大醫院北護分院長期安養病房的即時
病患安全系統的佈建(約使用了將近 60 個感測網路節點)。佈置圖如下： 
 
 6
電話等使用之頻帶重疊，定位用的信號與其他同頻帶的無線信號一旦碰撞， 會造成位置嚴重誤
判。（二）此外，定位資訊在經由無線感測網路傳輸時，從多人佩戴的使用者模組中傳出之定位
資訊在空中也可能相互碰撞，造成系統收集到的位置資訊不全，誤判為使用者已經離開院區。 
 
「自動化離院警告」服務之五個警戒區 
 
下圖左呈現使用者模組雛型與佩戴方式。圖右為使用者模組的充電座。目前院方以反應使用者模
組體積較大，而且最大部分時間在病床上休息的病患來說，配戴不甚方便。每兩天就需要將模組
取回充電也相當耗時。強烈希望在配戴方便度與電池續航性上能加強。 
 
(a) 配戴方式；(b)特製充電座 
 8
2.3. 跳頻定位感測網路 
The market for real-time location systems for assets and personnel tracking is expected to reach 
$1.26 billion by 2011 [30], and $2.71 billion in 2016 [31]. For widespread adoption and everyday 
use of real-time location systems in households and commercial buildings, the systems must be able 
to provide accurate and stable location estimations with little delay.  
Most indoor localization systems employ an RSSI-signature-based approach which ex- ploits 
temporal stability in the received signal strength indication (RSSI) from a set of pre- deployed 
beacons at identified locations, which is referred to as the RSSI signature. When a target carrying a 
receiving tag enters the space, the received RSSI values are compared to the RSSI signatures. The 
corresponding location of the closest RSSI signature identifies the location of the target. Methods of 
ensuring robust mapping between the measured RSSI values and the pre-recorded RSSI signature 
have been studied intensively in recent years [32][33][34]. Such methods are needed to minimize 
localization errors induced by unstable RSSI values. 
An often overlooked problem is the increasing use of wireless transmission of RF frequencies in 
the everyday environment. Bluetooth (IEEE 802.15.3), WiFi (IEEE 802.11) and Zigbee (IEEE 
802.15.4) all operate in the 2.4x GHz frequency band. The stability and availability of RSSI 
information for WiFi- or Zigbee-based localization systems may vary depending on interference 
from other WiFi, Bluetooth, and Zigbee sources. Aiming at a better understanding on the effect of 
RF interference, we build a Zigbee-based sensor network testbed for RSSI-signaturebased indoor 
localization. 
After  conducting  a  systematic  set  of  experiments  on  a  Zigbee-based  sensor  
network testbed, we find that the RSSI-signature-based localization system is susceptible to WiFi 
interference. The 80th-percentile error of the system may increase from 1.6 to 3.9 meters when the 
average background WiFi traffic increases from 68 to 2835 kbps. Having measured also the amount of 
WiFi traffic in our department building, we observe that there is a significant amount of time that the 
localization accuracy may suffer from the bursts of background noise. In a detailed analysis, we 
discover that the degradation in localization accuracy is mainly contributed by the loss of beacon 
messages, rather than the variance of RSSI values. A common solution to this problem is to extend the 
time for beacon message collection. This approach, although effective, adds extra delay before robust 
estimations can be obtained. 
In order to increase localization accuracy without suffering extra delay, we proposed a frequency 
hopping mechanism to mitigate the beacon message lost problem. In the proposed mechanism, each 
beacon node runs a diagnostic test periodically to determine whether the operating channel is 
experiencing beacon message losses. When the level of losses reaches a preset limit, the beacon node 
issues a hopping signal to inform all nodes in the network, including the receiving tag, to hop to the 
next channel. The diagnostic test is essential for the efficiency of the frequency hopping location 
system. If the test is inadequately sensitive, the system suffers from the beacon message loss problem 
and provides unstable location estimations. If the test is overly-sensitive, the system may hop 
 10
from the beacon nodes. The testbed is supplied by permanent power source to eliminate the labor cost 
of battery replacement and to enable long-term measurements. MoteLab [35] shares the same wired 
setting, but this testbed uses lower-cost off-the-shelf components for long distance USB connectivity.  
USB Connectivity We use USB extenders [36] to connect nodes more than 5 meters apart. The 
USB extenders are off-the-shelf products that extend the effective transmission distance up to 45 
meters. To avoid deploying numerous lengthy wires throughout the building, the chaining scheme in 
Figure 2.3.2(a) is used to connect beacon nodes. A chain of 4-port USB hubs are connected by USB 
extenders and CAT5e cables. The beginning of the chain connects to the PC gateway. Each USB hub 
is further connected with three beacon nodes. This chain is continued until it reaches the maximum 
transmission range of USB extenders. That is, the distance between the last USB hub and the PC 
cannot exceed 45 meters.  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2.3.2.  Testbed Wiring. (a) Chaining scheme to connect beacon motes. USB extenders and 
USB hubs are used to avoid lengthy wires. (b) The power connection (VCC) between USB extender 
and USB hub is cut to ensure the USB hub only draws power from the AC power adapter. 
 
 
Power Supply Powering the beacon nodes and the USB devices is a challenging problem. We 
measured the peak current consumption of the beacon node, the USB hub and the USB extender 
separately, and the current draw for each component is approximately 60mA, 5mA and 20mA, 
respectively. Thus, with 12 beacon nodes and 4 sets of USB hubs and extenders, a single chain will 
consume more than 800mA current. The high current requirement makes it infeasible to source power 
directly from a PC’s USB port.  
Instead, in the testbed, the USB hubs are powered externally. As Figure 2(a) shows, the USB hubs 
are connected to an external AC power adapter that is capable to provide a maximum of 3A current. 
However, due to long length and the large current consumption of the beacon chain, a voltage drop as 
much as 1V can be observed at the end of the chain. Hence, although the standard supply voltage for a 
USB interface is 5V, a 6V power adapter is used for the external power source in order to compensate 
for the additional voltage drop. We tested all the devices in the testbed beforehand to ensure they can 
sustain the 6V power supply. Note that the power connection pin (VCC) between the USB hub and the 
USB extender remote unit is cut as shown in Figure 2.3.2(b). This is to ensure that the USB hub draws 
power solely from the external power source and not from the PC. The excessive amount of current 
 12
 
 
Fig. 2 . 3 . 3.  Distribution of Localization Errors Under Different WiFi Data Rate. The 
localization error is larger when the WiFi data rate is higher. 
 
 
MEASUREMENT RESULT 
We conducted a sequence of experiments to determine the effect of WiFi noise on localization 
accuracy. In our experiments, we generate WiFi traffic at different levels, and collect the following 
data: (1) background WiFi traffic, (2) beacon messages received at the receiving tag and (3) beacon 
messages received at other beacons. In the 5 sets of experiments, the averages of observed background 
WiFi traffic rates are 68, 264, 1308, 1705, and 2835 kbps. We analyze the collected traces and present 
the results in this section.  
Figure 2.3.3 depicts the cumulative distribution function (CDF) of the localization errors. The test 
results show that the localization errors are influenced by the background WiFi traffic. In the 50th 
percentile, the errors increases from 53cm to 81cm (53% increase) as the back- ground WiFi traffic 
increases. The increase in the 80th percentile error from 160cm to 385cm (141% increase) is 
particularly large. This indicates that, as background traffic increases, the localization error and 
variance also increase.  
FREQUENCY HOPPING MECHANISM 
To make a RSSI-based localization system robust to background noise, this study proposes a 
frequency hopping mechanism consisting of (1) an initialization process for the sensor network 
formed by the beacon nodes, (2) a diagnostic test to detect whether the sensor network is substantially 
influenced by background noise, and (3) a protocol for signaling all nodes to hop to the next channel. 
The following subsections describe in detail the mechanism components and design rationale.  
Beacon Node 
To distinguish a busy channel from quiet ones, one needs to establish the criteria for channel 
 14
 
and the implementation complexity. The diagnostic test needs to run on resource limited sensor 
nodes. Other probabilistic methods need to be analyzed for their implementation feasibility. While 
we plan to pursue the analysis of more sophisticated methods in the future, this study focuses on 
analyzing and comparing the deterministic PRR thresholding (baseline) and the probabilistic HMM 
methods (proposed). HMM-based diagnostic test is computationally lightweight and feasible for the 
sensor network platform. HMM is well-known for modeling patterns of temporal dependency, 
which is characteristic of daily WiFi traffic. That is, if the data rate of the background WiFi traffic is 
currently high, it is very likely the data rate remains high. The method allows easy classification of 
channel state, quiet (no-hop) vs. busy (hop). The location estimates required for accurate diagnosis in 
the PRR thresholding method will not be necessary. 
The HMM-based diagnostic test involves two phases, offline state modeling phase and runtime 
state estimation phase. In the offline phase, a HMM model is trained by feeding PRR as the 
observation sequence into the trainer. The HMM consists of several hidden states and their 
corresponding Gaussian distributions which characterize the observation of each hidden state. 
Applying the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm enables adjustment of model parameters to 
maximize the probability of the training observation sequences. The hidden states can be defined as 
‘Hop’ or ‘No-Hop’ based on environments and strategies. In the runtime phase, every beacon runs 
the Forward algorithm [38] for the state estimation computation by calculating the state probability of 
each observed PRR. Given its computational simplicity, the Forward algorithm is suitable for 
resource constrained sensor nodes. 
State Modeling 
Given the continuous stream of PRR of a link as the observation values, the following parameters 
are estimated by the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm. A general HMM is represented by N 
states, denoted as S1, . . . , Si, . . . , SN . Assuming the observation Ot  can be characterized by a 
Gaussian distribution Ot  ∈ {N (µi, σ2)} with mean µi  and variance σi2, the state modeling problem 
can be formulated as follows. Given observation sequence O = O1, O2, . . . , OT, find a model λ = (N, 
A, B, π) that maximizes P (O|λ). Additional notations used in our model are described as follows: 
•   π : initial state distribution 
πi = P (q1  = Si), q1  ∈ {S1, S2, . . . , SN }, and qt  represents the estimated state at 
time t.  
•   A = {aij }, where aij = P (qt  = Sj |qt−1  = Si ) : probability distribution of state 
transition from state i to state j. 
•   B  = {bi (Ot)} : observation  probability distribution,  given the  state  i  at time  
t; the probability that an observation Ot  is observed at state i bi(Ot) = P (Ot  ∈ {N (µi, 
σ2)}|qt  = Si) 
After training, certain hidden states can be designated as ‘Hop’, while others are ‘No- Hop’. For 
example, in the most conservative way, the state with the lowest observation mean is considered as 
‘Hop’ and the others as ‘No-Hop’. Hopping would then only occur when PRR is low enough. In this 
study, two-state and three-state HMMs are both used and only the state with the lowest observation 
 16
Fig. 2.3.4. Localization Accuracy  
 
Localization Error with Frequency Hopping 
Figure 2.3.4 shows the CDF of localization errors during a busiest 20 minutes using two- state 
HMM,  three-state  HMM, the 48% PRR threshold, the 42% PRR threshold, as well as  the  
localization  errors  without  frequency  hopping.  The  48%  PRR  threshold  was  se- 
lected based on brute-force method  showed  in previous subsection. We can also choose a 
threshold blindly, and a reasonable choice would be in the range of 40% to 60%. Hence, we chose 
42% threshold to represent a blindly random choice threshold.  As show in the figure, both two-state 
and three-state HMMs significantly improve the localization error over the without frequency 
hopping method. For three-state HMM, the improvement of 80th-percentile localization error is as 
high as 55% (from 2.74 to 1.24 meters) and achieved slightly better  accuracy then the brute-force 
48% PRR threshold setting. The above results show that the frequency hopping mechanism can avoid 
unnecessary beacon packet losses and still maintain localization accuracy. Conversely, the original 
localization system without frequency hopping must undergo a period of high localization error.  
The random chose 42% threshold is worse than two-state and three-state HMMs, the 
80th-percentile localization error for this setting is 1.74 meters. The result shows that, although 
intuitively setting a threshold is the simplest way, but could lead to a larger localization error. Setting a 
threshold by the brute-force method can achieve better performance, is tedious and labor consuming. 
On the other hand, providing similar localization accuracy to the 48% threshold, the three-state 
HMM only needs PRR to train the training of the model rather than the location information which 
is required to find a hard threshold. In this regard, HMM is preferable than PRR thresholding for 
diagnostic tests in terms of performance and feasibility.  
 18
performance and compare XD with MD. Then we make the decision which protocol is more 
appropriate in Beihu, XD or MD.  
We find that the performance of XD is not better than MD because the packet is not exactly sent 
in its own time slot. It is the task delay, packetization delay and CSMA time that make the TDMA of 
XD inaccurate. Additionally, the queue drop of XD happens earlier than the simulation due to longer 
packet transmission time and task delay. Limited by the time slot, the rate of packet transmission in 
XD would be slower than MD. Thus the queue drop of XD would happen earlier. Furthermore, the 
time slot usage of XD is only two-thirds in Beihu. One-third of the capacity would be wasted. So MD 
is still more appropriate than XD in Beihu elder care applications.  
Mechanism 
The protocol we implement is Cross-layer Diffusion (XD). The routing mechanism of XD is 
based on an opportunistic redundant data transmission routing mechanism referred to as Magnetic 
Diffusion (MD). The MAC mechanism of XD is a hybrid CSMA and TDMA and the TDMA 
mechanism utilizes the magnetic charges established by MD.  In this section, we describe the routing 
and MAC mechanisms of XD in detail and provide the rationale of how the cross-layer designed 
mechanism achieves reliable and timely sensor data collection.  
Routing Mechanism 
The design of MD is inspired by the physics in magnetism. Consider the data sink as a magnet 
and the data as metallic nails. The data will be attracted towards the sink according to the magnetic 
 
 
 
Figure 2.4.2: Types of Collision in MD 
 20
 
Figure 2.4.3: WSN on the 5th floor of NTU Beihu Branch 
The design objective is to get a good balance between high delivery rate and low end-to-end delay.  
To elaborate in more detail the design rationale, we classify collisions in MD networks into six 
canonical types by the sending nodes from different magnetic charge levels. In Figure 2.4.2, node A 
and B are sending nodes and the packets collide at node C. The number on the node indicates the 
assigned magnetic charge. Type I, II and III are cases where sending nodes are at the same level. The 
sending nodes can be one level higher, at the same level, or one level lower than the receiving node. 
Type IV and V are cases where sending nodes are of adjacent magnetic charges. Type VI is the case 
where the two sending nodes are two levels apart.  
The data traveling along the magnetic field, from low-charge to high-charge, should not be lost by 
collision since they are effective data disseminated to the sink. On the contrary, the data traveling 
against the magnetic field, to the same charge or from large-charge to low-charge, are not critical 
because they are away from the sink. As a result, Type I, II and IV collisions can be ignored, and in 
the following we focus on Type III, V and VI collisions.  
Type III collisions can be reduced by applying CSMA at nodes within the same magnetic charge 
level since nodes at the same level tend to be nearby. Note that, there still remains a slight chance that 
nodes at the same level are away from each other’s carrier sense range. However, these nodes may be 
too far away to affect each other.  
Type V collisions can be reduced by CSMA to a certain degree because nodes with adjacent 
magnetic charges can hear each other relatively easily. A significant amount of the collisions can be 
further reduced by separating the sending time of the nodes at different levels, hinting the benefit of a 
TDMA strategy to the design. In Type VI, nodes of higher and smaller level become hidden terminals 
to each other. These collisions may not be eliminated by carrier sense. The sending time of nodes two 
levels apart needs to be separated to avoid collisions. To avoid type V and VI collisions effectively, 
TDMA based on the magnetic charge levels is applied.  
 22
 
 
Figure 2.4.6 : CDF of end-to-end delay in XD and MD in Beihu 
We select 9 nodes to be relays, forwarding packets only; 14 nodes to be tags, periodically 
generating packets only. The middle node is the data sink whose charge is set to 10. Figure 2.4.3 shows 
the deployment. The deep grey circles are relays and the numbers in circles are the magnetic charges 
after the interest broadcast phase of MD. The light grey circles are tags.  
Static Case 
We do experiments for 1 source, 3 sources, 5 sources … and 11 sources. There are 2 distinct runs 
for each experiment. In each run, the sources are randomly selected from 14 tags. So the effects of the 
distance or hop counts from different tags to sink would be averaged. The PDR of XD and MD, 
showed in Figure 2.4.4, have the same trend as in the testbed. But the network in Beihu is more 
unstable, the standard deviations are larger. Different from testbed, the relays in Beihu are less and the 
asymmetric links are more. So the PDR would be a little worse than in testbed.  
 24
 
Figure 2.4.8: CDF of end-to-end delay in XD and MD of mobile experiment in Beihu 
 
 
 
 26
四、參考文獻 
[1] Injong Rhee, Ajit C. Warrier, Mahesh Aia, Jenogki Min, Prashant Patel. Z-MAC: a hybrid MAC 
for wireless sensor networks. In the Proceedings of the 3rd international conference on 
Embedded networked sensor systems (ACM SenSys 2005), November 2005, San Diego, 
California, USA  
[2] J. Polastre, J. Hill, D. Culler, A Versatile Low-Power Medium Access Layer, Proceedings of the 
ACM Symposium on Networked Embedded Systems, 2004 
[3] W. Ye, J. Heidemann,, D. Estrin, An Energy-efficient MAC Protocol for Wireless Sensor 
Networks, Proceedings of the 21st International Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer 
and Communications Societies (INFOCOM 2002), New York, NY, June 2002 
[4] Chalermek Intanagonwiwat, Ramesh Govindan and Deborah Estrin, Directed diffusion: a 
scalable and robust communication paradigm for sensor networks Proceedings of the sixth annual 
international conference on Mobile computing and networking. Pages 56-67 August 6 - 11, 2000, 
Boston, MA USA  
[5] Y.-J. Kim, R. Govindan, B. Karp, S. Shenker, Geographic Routing Made Practical, 2004 
[6] Rao, S. Ratnasamy, S. Shenker, C. Papadimitriou, I. Stoica, Geographic Routing without 
Location Information, Proceedings of the, 2003 
[7] J. Heidemann, F. Silva, D. Estrin, Matching Data Dissemination Algorithms to Application 
Requirements, Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Networked Embedded Systems, 2003 
[8] W. Merrill, L. Girod, B. Schiffer, D. McIntire, G. Rava, K. Sohrabi, F. Newberg, J. Elson, and W. 
Kaiser, Dynamic Networking and Smart Sensing Enable Next-Generation Landmines, in IEEE 
Pervasive Computing Magazine, Oct-Dec 2004, pp. 82-89 
[9] Gyula Simon, Miklos Maroti, Akos Ledeczi, Gyorgy Balogh, Branislav Kusy, Andras Nedas, 
Gabor Pap, Janos Sallai, Ken Frampton, Sensor network-based countersniper system, SenSys '04: 
Proceedings of the 2nd international conference on Embedded networked sensor systems, pp. 
1--12, ACM Press, 2004 
[10] Alberto Cerpa, Jeremy Elson, Deborah Estrin, Lewis Girod, Michael Hamilton, Jerry Zhao. 
Habitat Monitoring: Application Driver for Wireless Communications Technology. In the 
Proceedings of the First ACM SIGCOMM Workshop on Data Communications in Latin America 
and the Caribbean, 3-5 April, 2001, San Jose, Costa Rica 
[11] Gilman Tolle, Joseph Polastre, Robert Szewczyk, David Culler, Neil Turner, Kevin Tu, Stephen 
Burgess, Todd Dawson, Phil Buonadonna, David Gay, Wei Hong, A Macroscope in the 
Redwoods, SenSys '05: Proceedings of the 3rd international conference on Embedded networked 
sensor systems, pp. 51--63, ACM Press, New York, NY, USA, 2005 
[12] V. Kumar, D. Rus, and S. Singh. Robot and Sensor Networks for First Responders. PERVASIVE 
computing, October, 2004, pp. 24 - 33.  
[13] Andrew L. Kun, W. Thomas Miller, William H. Lenharth. Computers in Police Cruisers. 
PERVASIVE computing October-December 2004 (Vol. 3, No. 4) pp. 34-41.  
[14] Ning Xu, Sumit Rangwala, Krishna Kant Chintalapudi, Deepak Ganesan, Alan Broad, Ramesh 
Govindan, Deborah Estrin, A wireless sensor network For structural monitoring, SenSys '04: 
Proceedings of the 2nd international conference on Embedded networked sensor systems, pp. 
13--24, ACM Press, 2004.  
[15] Jennifer A. Rice and B. F. Spencer, Jr., Structural health monitoring sensor development for the 
Imote2 platform, Proc. SPIE (The International Society for Optical Engineering), Vol. 6932, art. 
no. 693234 (2008).  
[16] Siuli Roy, A.D., Bandyopadhyay, S. , Agro-sense: Precision agriculture using sensor-based 
wireless mesh networks, Innovations in NGN: Future Network and Services, 2008. K-INGN 
2008. First ITU-T Kaleidoscope Academic Conference 12-13 May 2008 Page(s):383 - 388 
[17] De Brito, L.M.P.L., Peralta, L.M.R., Santos, F.E.S., Fernandes, R.P.R., Wireless sensor networks 
applied to museums' environmental monitoring, Proceedings - The 4th International Conference 
on Wireless and Mobile Communications, ICWMC 2008, art. no. 4591316, pp. 364-369.  
[18] Cho, C.Y., Chou, P.H., Chung, Y.C., King, C.T., Tsai, M.J., Lee, B.J., Chou, T.Y. , Wireless 
sensor networks for debris flow observation, 2008 5th Annual IEEE Communications Society 
Conference on Sensor, Mesh and Ad Hoc Communications and Networks, SECON, art. no. 
4557811, pp. 615-617.  
 28
[41] S. Wicker, Error Control Systems for Digital Communications and Storage. Englewood Cliffs, 
NJ: Prentice Hall, Inc., 1995.  
[42] S. Lin, and D. J. Costello, Jr., Error control coding: fundamentals and applications, Prentice-Hall, 
1983.  
[43] Hsing-Jung Huang, Ting-Hao Chang, Shu-Yu Hu and Polly Huang, “Magnetic Diffusion: 
Scalability, Reliability, and QoS of Data Dissemination Mechanisms for Wireless Sensor 
Networks,”   Computer Communications, Vol. 29, No. 13,, pp. 2482-2493, Aug. 2006.  
[44] Chieh-Ting Huang, Tsung-Han Lin, Ling-Jyh Chen and Polly Huang, “XD: A Cross-Layer 
Designed Data Collection Mechanism for Mission Critical WSNs in Urban Buildings,” In 
Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Mobile Urban Sensing (MobiUS 2009), in 
conjunction with International Conference on Mobile Data Management (MDM 2009), Taipei, 
Taiwan, May 2009.  
 
2 
 
 
1. Objective and Background 
The objective of this trip is to attend the IEEE PerCom 2011. IEEE PerCom is the 
flagship conference for ubiquitous/pervasive computing and communication research. 
The conference full paper program is extremely competitive. The acceptance rate is 
about 8-10% 
 
Prof. Huang’s team presented their clinical trial work utilizing a real-time indoor 
location system in the NTU hospital’s elder care facility. This paper is selected with 
high marks to be presented in the SmartE workshop. The program is included below. 
The attendants are mainly researchers around the world working on advancing 
technologies for bio-medical applications. 
 
SmartE 2011: Smart Environments to Enhance Health Care 
 Bingchuan Yuan, John Herbert:  
Web-based real-time remote monitoring for pervasive 
healthcare. 625-629 
      
 Thibault De Champs, Bessam Abdulrazak, Hélène Pigot, Mohammed 
Ouenzar, Marc Frappier, Benoît Fraikin:  
Pervasive safety application with model checking in smart houses: 
The INOVUS intelligent oven. 630-635 
      
 Sungwon Yang, Mario Gerla:  
Personal gateway in mobile health monitoring. 636-641 
      
 Shuang Wang, Marjorie Skubic, Yingnan Zhu, Colleen Galambos:  
Using passive sensing to estimate relative energy expenditure for 
eldercare monitoring. 642-648 
      
 Chun-Chieh Hsiao, Yi-Jing Sung, Seng-Yong Lau, Cheryl Chia-Hui 
Chen, Fei-Hsiu Hsiao, Hao-Hua Chu, Polly Huang:  
Towards long-term mobility tracking in NTU hospital's elder 
care center. 649-654 
      
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一：室內定位無線感測網路(2/2)
計畫主持人: 黃寶儀
計畫編號: 99-2220-E-002-012- 學門領域: 晶片科技計畫--整合型學術研究
計畫
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
(**) 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
