(the third year), the effect of membrane type on the 
cross-flow microfiltration performance was studied. 
How the membrane type, operating conditions and 
suspension properties (such as pH and electrolyte 
concentration) affect the filtration flux, membrane 
fouling pattern, protein transmission and protein 
selectivity, were also discussed. 
英文關鍵詞： microfiltration, membrane filtration, bio-separation, 
membrane fouling, separation technology 
 
 ABSTRACT 
The membrane fouling in membrane filtration of bio-products is studied. The products 
of bioreactors consist of not only microbial cells but also soluble microbial products (SMP) 
and extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) which are composed of proteins, carbohydrates, 
polysaccharides, nucleic acid, lipids, and humic substances. Therefore, the mechanism of 
membrane filtration is very complicated due to the complex suspension. However, to 
understand the biofouling in membrane filtration is the essential step to enhance the 
separation efficiency and to develop high performance membrane filtration modules for 
bio-products. This proposal presents a task to attack the fundamental and technology involved 
in membrane filtration of bioreactor’s products. In the first and second years, the biofouling 
mechanism in membrane filtration of microbial cells and protein mixtures was analyzed on a 
microscopic viewpoint. The mechanisms of membrane fouling by protein and polysaccharide 
mixtures were studied. In this year (the third year), the effect of membrane type on the 
cross-flow microfiltration performance was studied. How the membrane type, operating 
conditions and suspension properties (such as pH and electrolyte concentration) affect the 
filtration flux, membrane fouling pattern, protein transmission and protein selectivity, were 
also discussed. 
 
Keywords: microfiltration, membrane filtration, bio-separation, membrane fouling, 
separation technology 
 
 
二、緣由與目的 
隨著科技的突飛猛進，生物技術亦隨之蓬勃發展，而生物反應器目前仍為生產生化
產品的重要工具之ㄧ。然而，在生化產品的分離或純化程序中，所遭遇的生物細胞或膠
 2
 實驗方法 
本研究使用兩平行板式之掃流過濾裝置由上下兩片壓克力平板組成，模組中的渠道
高度為 1 10× -3 m，長度及寬度分別為 5.5×10-2 m及 2.0×10-2 m，因此實際總過濾面積為
1.1 10× -3 m2。實驗之掃流微過濾系統如圖 2 所示。實驗前，將懸浮液配製於泥漿槽，調
整適當的操作條件，例如掃流速度、過濾壓差等，實驗中藉由數位天秤與電腦的連線進
行實驗數據的截取與紀錄。為維持攪拌槽中的懸浮液濃度，過濾期間會補充乾淨的等量
濾液至懸浮液槽中。實驗後，再秤取濾餅重量，並量測濾餅的孔隙度與平均過濾比阻。
有些結垢的薄膜並以SEM或CLSM觀察其結構及阻成。 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Schematic diagram of the cross-flow microfiltration system. 
 
四、結果與討論 
圖 3 為 MCE 膜在固定掃流速度 0.3 m/s、過濾壓差為 60 kPa 下之濾速對時間做圖。
由圖中可以看出，在 2000 秒之前濾速衰減急速，而後趨於平緩，最終達到一擬穩態值。
過濾單成分 Dextran 時下降趨勢跟 BSA 接近，但濾速從一開始就比 BSA 低 18%左右，
表示一開始 Dxtran 造成的阻力就來的比 BSA 明顯，最後擬穩態時的濾速 BSA 也高於
 4
  
 
Fig. 4 Filtration resistances of different membrane in cross-flow microfiltration. 
 
在過濾單成份時，無論是 BSA 或是 Dextran 一開始濾速下降趨勢則以使用 PVDF
膜最為緩慢，推測是因為此膜本身的純水通量就較其他膜來得大；而在擬穩態狀況下最
後濾速較高者也都是使用 PC 膜，如圖 5 所示。推測這是由於 PC 膜為直孔洞結構，懸
浮固體易在膜面上形成濾餅較不易讓固體進入孔道內造成阻塞，此點將在以下進一步討
論。 
為了證明BSA所造成之阻力增加原因為膜面上及孔道內結垢的影響，以及使用不同
膜時BSA阻力會有所差別，所以使用MCE膜及PVDF膜過濾單成分BSA，操作條件固定
在透膜壓差 60 kPa、掃流速度 0.3 m/s 下進行實驗，實驗結束後再以SEM拍攝來觀察，
如圖 6 所示。圖 6 中 (a)、(b)、(c)、(d) 分別為 MCE膜未經過濾之膜截面、MCE經實
 6
 在過濾初期約 400 秒時，濾速就已衰減為原來之 50%，可能是溶質在膜孔內造成阻塞，
且當壓差越大時達擬穩態之時間越久。其它種類的薄膜亦進行相同的分析。 
 
 
   
Fig. 6 The section views of membranes (a) MCE virgin membrane, (b) MCE membrane after 
filtration under TMP = 60 kPa, us = 0.3 m/s, (c) PVDF virgin membrane, (d) PVDF 
membrane after filtration under TMP = 60 kPa, us = 0.3 m/s. 
 
圖 8 為使用三種薄膜在固定掃流速度 0.3 m/s 下，透膜壓差對擬穩態濾速之影響。
由圖可知，低壓時 3 種膜之濾速都隨著壓力增加而增加；到了 80 kPa 後趨勢就有所不同。
PC 膜之擬穩態濾速隨著壓力上升而上升，MCE 膜濾速雖然隨著壓力而上升，但在壓力
20 至 40 kPa 時上升約 10%，而到 80 至 100 kPa 僅變為 2%；而使用 PVDF 膜時，當壓
力增加到 60 kPa 之後，濾速則會急速下降。壓力在 80 kPa 以下時，皆以 PVDF 膜之擬
穩態濾速最高。 
 
 8
 圖 9 為BSA/Dextran混合液在固定掃流速度 0.3 m/s下，使用MCE膜之各項過濾阻力
值對過濾壓差作圖。由此圖可知，總阻力值隨著壓力上升而增大，而可逆與不可逆之阻
力層則扮演了重要之角色。圖 9 顯示，在低壓條件下其Rcp、Rrev與Rirrev都佔有重要地位，
Rcp、Rrev與Rirrev值皆隨著壓力上升而上升，且隨著壓力增加Rrev與Rirrev的影響更加顯著。
當壓力為 100 kPa時，Rrev與Rirrev值分別為 20 kPa時的 5 倍及 4 倍。由此數據可發現，可
逆阻力層較不可逆阻力層容易受到壓力之影響。其它種類的薄膜亦進行相同的分析。 
 
 
Fig. 9 Filtration resistances in cross-flow microfiltration using MCE membrane under 
different filtration pressures. 
 
使用不同薄膜時，Rcp、Rrev與Rirrev之比例不盡相同，所以將Rcp、Rrev與Rirrev之值分別
拿出來討論。圖 10、11 及 12 分別為固定掃流速度 0.3 m/s下，透膜壓差對不同膜之濃度
 10
 10.5 倍，且部分膜孔縮小約 20%~30%左右，同時可証明不可逆層與可逆層之阻力隨壓
力上升而上升。而由(a)、(c)、(e)可看出，三種壓力下孔道內都幾乎沒有阻塞，且膜面
上結垢層的厚度並沒有隨著壓力增加而增加，厚度分別為 392 nm、408 nm、415 nm。
所以知道不可逆層之阻力應該是由於膜孔縮小所影響。而可逆層阻力隨壓力上升而上
升，然而膜厚度卻無增加，可知膜面上之結垢物受到壓縮壓力的影響所造成。其它種類
的薄膜亦進行相同的分析。 
 
 
Fig. 10 Effects of transmembrane pressure on the filtration resistances due to concentration 
polarization layer using different membranes. 
 
 12
  
                (a)                              (b) 
    
                (c)                              (d) 
    
                (e)                              (f) 
    
Fig. 13 SEM photos of PC membrane after cross-flow microfiltration under cross-flow 
velocity of 0.3 m/s and TMP = (a)&(b) 20 kPa, (c)&(d) 60 kPa, (e)&(f) 100 kPa. 
 
 
本研究亦利用 CLSM 來分析沉積於膜面上及吸附在膜孔內之 BSA 和 Dextran 分佈
 14
 平衡時，由(c)可看出幾乎都以 BSA 為主，Dextran 仍只占少部分。當在 20 分鐘時，膜
面上有 BSA 大團之凝聚物，而到 40 分鐘後只剩小團凝聚物，可能是由於在過濾初期
BSA 容易吸附在膜面上，慢慢的經過一段時間後，流體流動將膜面上吸附較不牢之粒子
帶走，且在 20 分鐘時有發現到 Dextran 之存在，表示此時已有孔道內之阻塞。而當時間
拉長至 40 分鐘後，發現 BSA 量變多、Dextran 並沒減少，再由先前之圖 14 知，表面結
垢幾乎為 BSA 所構成，所以表示此時除了孔道內部之阻塞外膜面上之可逆層結垢變多。
當最後達到平衡時，以 BSA 居多，可知 40 分鐘至 200 分鐘這段時間之濾速下降是由
BSA 所主導，也可證實阻力之組成由可逆層為主。 
 
 
     
 (a)                       (b)                       (c) 
Fig. 15 CLSM 2D images for PVDF membrane under cross-flow velocity of 0.3m/s and 
transmembrane pressure of 100 kPa at (a) 20 min (b) 40 min and (c) 200 min. 
 
 
當掃流速度增加時，同時也增加了膜面之剪切力，讓 BSA 及 Dextran 較不易附著於
膜面上。圖 16 為 MCE、PVDF、PC 膜在固定透膜壓差 60 kPa、改變掃流速度下對
BSA/Dextran 混合液進行掃流微過濾，其擬穩態濾速對掃流速度之關係圖。由圖可看出，
PC 膜之濾速較不受到掃流速度之影響，掃流速度由 0.1 m/s 上升至 0.5 m/s 而濾速之上
升幅度僅只有 10%；相較於 MCE 膜與 PVDF 膜分別上升 50%及 65%來的低。使用 MCE
 16
 之膜表面、掃流速度 0.1 m/s 之膜截面、掃流速度 0.3 m/s 之膜表面與掃流速度 0.3 m/s
之膜截面。由(a)中可明顯看出，膜面上之膜孔部份被結垢層覆蓋住，僅剩部份孔洞，且
可與圖 1 中乾淨之 PVDF 膜表面比較，發現孔洞有被縮小之情形。(b)圖中，有部分孔道
粒子吸附造成阻塞。而在(c)掃流速度 0.3 m/s 下，表面覆蓋量與(a)圖相比，孔洞明顯較
多且大，而(d)圖與(b)圖比較下，兩者孔洞阻塞程度差異不大。也證實在掃流速度 0.1 m/s
之可逆層阻力值大於在掃流速度 0.3 m/s 時，而不可逆阻力值相近。 
 
 (a)                                (b) 
    
 (c)                                (d) 
    
Fig. 17 SEM photos of PVDF membrane after filtration under TMP of 60 kPa and cross-flow 
velocity of (a)&(b) 0.1 m/s, (c)&(d) 0.3 m/s. 
 
利用 HPLC 量測出 BSA 及 Dextran 在濾液端之濃度後，其值與原配置懸浮液之濃度
比值，即為該物質之穿透率。圖 18 為使用 MCE、PVDF 與 PC 膜，在固定掃流速度 0.3 
 18
 上升而降低，且 Dextran 之穿透率都比 BSA 高。在使用 MCE 膜時，於低掃流速度 0.1 m/s
下，BSA 和 Dextran 之穿透率差值約為 39%，分離效率最好。而在使用 PC 膜時，當掃
流速度為 0.3 m/s、0.5 m/s，兩者穿透率差值都約在 35%左右，比在掃流速度 0.1m/s 穿
透率差值為 9%來的高。且掃流速度由 0.1 m/s 到 0.5 m/s，BSA 穿透率衰減 50%而 Dextran
只上升 8%。在使用 PVDF 膜時，BSA 和 Dextran 穿透率差值相近，大致都在 20~25%左
右。所以由此可知，若欲要有良好之分離效果，MCE 與 PVDF 膜可選擇操作在低掃流
速度，例如 0.1 m/s，而 PC 膜則可選用高掃流速度。總而言之，若欲將 BSA 及 Dextran
分開，則可使用 PC 薄膜，操作在掃流速度 0.3 m/s、過濾壓差 100 kPa 下。而若是欲在
濾液中同時獲得較多的 BSA 及 Dextran，則可使用 PVDF 薄膜，操作在掃流速度 0.1 m/s、
過濾壓差為 60 kPa 下。 
 
 
Fig. 19 Effects of cross-flow velocity and membrane type on the transmissions of BSA and 
Dextran. 
 20
 六、計劃成果自評 
本研究以薄膜過濾分離生物反應器之產品，探討掃流速度、過濾壓差、薄膜種類等
操作條件對過濾通量、薄膜結垢、各成分阻擋率的影響，並獲致許多重要的結論。除了
已達成計劃之原訂目標，並將依據既有基礎持續進行深入研究，未來研究成果將發表在
學術性期刊及應用至需求日殷之生化分離程序中。 
 
七、參考文獻 
Cheng, T.W., H.M. Yeh, C.T. Gau, Resistance analyses for ultrafiltration in tubular membrane 
module, Sep. Sci. Technol., 32, 2623 (1997). 
Hwang, K.J. and K.P. Lin, “Cross-Flow Microfiltration of Dual-Sized Submicron Particles,” 
Sep. Sci. Technol., 37, 2231 (2002). 
Hwang, K.J., Y.H. Cheng, K.L. Tung, Modeling of cross-flow microfiltration of fine 
particle/macromolecule binary suspension, J. Chem. Eng. Japan, 36, 1488 (2003). 
 
八、附錄 (本計畫已發表之期刊論文) 
1. Hwang, K.J. and P.S. Huang, “Cross-Flow Microfiltration of Dilute Macromolecular 
Suspension,” Sep. Purif. Technol., 68(3), 328-334 (2009). 
2. Hwang, K.J. and P.Y. Sz, “Filtration Characteristics and Membrane Fouling in 
Cross-Flow Microfiltration of BSA/Dextran Binary Suspension,” J. Membr. Sci., 347, 
75-82 (2010). 
3. Hwang, K.J., H.P. Lo, T.W. Cheng and K.L. Tung, “Separation of Protein from 
Suspended Particles Using Submerged Membrane Filtration,” J. Membr. Sci., 362, 
427-433 (2010). 
4. Hwang, K.J. and L. Chen, “Effect of Air-Sparging on the Cross-Flow Microfiltration of 
Microbe/Protein Bio-Suspension,” J. Taiwan Inst. Chem. Engrs., 41(5), 564-569 
(2010). 
5. Hwang, K.J. and P.Y. Sz, “Membrane Fouling Mechanism and Concentration Effect in 
Cross-Flow Microfiltration of BSA/Dextran Mixtures,” Chem, Eng, J, 166, 669-677 
(2011). 
6. Hwang, K.J. and S.S. Yang, “The Role of Polysaccharide on the Filtration of Microbial 
Cells,” Sep. Sci. Technol., 46(5), 786-793 (2011). 
7. Hwang, K.J. and P.Y. Sz, “Effect of Membrane Pore Size on the Performance of 
 22
Separation and Puriﬁcation Technology 68 (2009) 328–334
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Separation and Puriﬁcation Technology
journa l homepage: www.e lsev ier .com/ locate /seppur
Cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of dilute macromolecular suspension
Kuo-Jen Hwang ∗, Pei-Sun Huang
Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, Tamkang University, #151, Ying-Chuan Rd., Tamsui, Taipei Hsien 25137, Taiwan
a r t i c l e i n f o
Article history:
Received 16 February 2009
Received in revised form 26 May 2009
Accepted 29 May 2009
Keywords:
Cross-ﬂow microﬁltration
Rejection coefﬁcient
Membrane fouling
Dextran
Membrane ﬁltration
a b s t r a c t
The operating condition effects on the cross-ﬂow microﬁltration performance of dilute macromolecular
suspensionwere studied. Track-etchedmembranes of different pore sizeswere used to ﬁlter blue dextran
with a molecular weight of 2000kDa. Increasing the membrane pore diameter results in higher ﬁltration
ﬂux but decreases the dextran rejection coefﬁcient. For ﬁltration using 0.2-mmembrane, an increase in
cross-ﬂowvelocityorﬁltrationpressure leads tohigherﬁltrationﬂux, but the impactof cross-ﬂowvelocity
ismore signiﬁcant. Amembrane foulingmodel based on force analysis andmembrane pore size reduction
caused by dextran adsorption at pseudo-steady state is proposed. The effectivemembrane pore diameter
and pseudo-steady ﬁltration ﬂux under various conditions can then be estimated. On the other hand, the
pseudo-steady dextran rejection coefﬁcient increases with increasing cross-ﬂow velocity or decreasing
ﬁltration pressure when cross-ﬂow velocity is lower than 0.3m/s. This can be reasonably explained by
the sweeping effect of tangential ﬂow or using the modiﬁed gel-polarization model. However, a contrary
trend occurs under the conditions with higher cross-ﬂow velocity. This result is attributed to the dextran
molecular deformation. The “coil-stretched” deformation of blue dextran molecules can be indicated
using the Reynolds number in the permeating ﬂow direction or Deborah number for macromolecular
ﬂow through porous media.
© 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
Membrane separation technology for purifyingmacromolecules
from a suspension has become increasingly important in recent
years. Different kinds of macromolecules, such as biological poly-
mers, dextran, proteins, medical therapeutics, emulsions, etc.,
should be separated in various chemical, biochemical and phar-
maceutical processes. Although the use of cross-ﬂow ﬁltration is
usually more efﬁcient compared to the other separation methods,
some operating characteristics, such as membrane fouling, ﬁltra-
tion ﬂux and macromolecular rejection, should be realized prior to
developing this kind of operation.
In general, the separation efﬁciency can be evaluated using
two important factors, ﬁltration ﬂux andmacromolecular rejection
coefﬁcient. The separation of macromolecules from the dispersed
liquid is more efﬁcient when the ﬂux or rejection is higher. Many
theoretical models have been proposed to predict the pseudo-
steady ﬁltration ﬂux under various conditions in microﬁltration
or ultraﬁltration in past years; for instance, the concentration
polarizationmodels, the hydrodynamicmodels and themembrane
blocking models. The concentration polarization models claimed
that a ﬂowing polarization layer is formed on the membrane sur-
∗ Corresponding author. Fax: +886 2 26209887.
E-mail address: kjhwang@mail.tku.edu.tw (K.-J. Hwang).
face. The convectivemass ﬂux toward themembrane is balanced by
the diffusion ﬂux away from themembrane at the steady state, and
the steady ﬁltration ﬂux or concentration proﬁle in the polariza-
tion layer can be estimated by integrating the equations of motion
[1,2]. These models were modiﬁed because of the formation of a
constant-concentration gel layer on the membrane surface, e.g.,
the modiﬁed gel-polarization model [2]. Cheng et al. [3] carried
out ultraﬁltration of dextran T500 solutions using a ceramic tubu-
lar membrane. They indicated that the ﬁltration resistance could
be predicted accurately by a modiﬁed gel-polarization model, and
the resistance caused by the concentration polarization/gel layer
was reduced by increasing the cross-ﬂow velocity. The hydrody-
namic models were proposed to analyze the ﬂuid ﬂow ﬁeld and
the particle migration in cross-ﬂow ﬁltration modules [4,5]. The
particle deposition on the membrane surface and the ﬁltration
ﬂux decay were analyzed based on the force balance models and
hydrodynamic viewpoints. In addition, the received ﬁltrate volume
and ﬁltration time can be correlated into a unique mathematical
equation using membrane blocking models [6]. Different blocking
phenomena can be indicated by the parameter, blocking index, in
the equation. These models have been extended to membrane ﬁl-
tration to understand the effects of membrane morphology and
operating conditions on the ﬁltration performance [7,8].
The foulingmechanismand theperformanceofmacromolecular
membrane ﬁltration aremainly dependent on themembrane char-
acteristics (including pore size, morphology, hydrophilic afﬁnity,
1383-5866/$ – see front matter © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.seppur.2009.05.022
330 K.-J. Hwang, P.-S. Huang / Separation and Puriﬁcation Technology 68 (2009) 328–334
Fig. 2. Time courses of ﬁltration ﬂux during cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of blue dex-
tran suspension using membranes with different pore sizes.
3. Results and discussion
Fig. 2 shows the ﬁltration ﬂux time courses during blue dextran
cross-ﬂow microﬁltration using three membranes with different
pore sizes. The blue dextran concentration in the suspension was
kept at 0.5 kg/m3, and the cross-ﬂow velocity was ﬁxed as 0.3m/s
in these experiments. The ﬂuxes in the ﬁltration using membrane
pore sizes of 0.1 and 0.2m attenuate very quickly at the begin-
ning of ﬁltration and reach pseudo-steady values before 300 s. This
implies that no additionalmembrane fouling can occur after a short
ﬁltration time. However, the ﬂux in the ﬁltration using 0.4m
membrane decays gradually during the ﬁltration and approaches
a pseudo-steady value after 3000 s. The membrane fouling in this
condition is relatively slower to those using smaller membrane
pore sizes. Comparing the data under the same cross-ﬂow veloc-
ity and ﬁltration pressure, ﬁltration ﬂux increases with increasing
membrane pore size. This can be expected since a lower resistance
causes by larger pores. Furthermore, an increase in ﬁltration pres-
sure results in a littlehigherﬁltrationﬂux for agivenmembraneand
cross-ﬂowvelocity. Although theﬁltrationdriving force is increased
by increasing ﬁltration pressure, the more serious membrane foul-
ing and higher ﬁltration resistancemay offset this effect on the ﬂux
enhancement.
Fig. 3 depicts the membrane pore size effect on the pseudo-
steady dextran rejection coefﬁcient. The suspension concentration
and cross-ﬂow velocity were kept constant and the same as
those shown in Fig. 2. The pseudo-steady state in this study is
considered to be the state under which the ﬂux deviation in
100 s is less than 1%. The observed rejection coefﬁcient, Rrej, is
deﬁned as:
Rrej ≡ 1 −
Cp
Cb
(1)
where Cb and Cp are the blue dextran concentrations in the bulk
suspension and in the ﬁltrate, respectively. The data shown in
Fig. 3 indicate that the rejection coefﬁcient exceeds 0.8 when the
membrane pore size is smaller than 0.2m. However, the rejec-
tion coefﬁcient becomes as small as 0.1 for the 0.4m membrane.
This reveals thatmost blue dextranmolecules have the opportunity
to penetrate through such large membrane pores into the ﬁltrate.
Because a larger membrane pore size cannot retain blue dextran
molecules to achieve the separation objective, the 0.2m mem-
brane is regarded as a suitable medium for blue dextran ﬁltration.
A higher ﬁltration pressure leads to a smaller rejection coefﬁcient
for all membranes, as shown in Fig. 3. This is because more dextran
Fig. 3. Effects ofmembrane pore size andﬁltration pressure on the dextran rejection
coefﬁcient.
molecules penetrate through the membrane pores under a higher
ﬁltration ﬂux, in spite of the thicker fouled layer hindrance.
The cross-ﬂow velocity and ﬁltration pressure effects on the
pseudo-steady ﬁltration ﬂux are shown in Fig. 4. The ﬁltration ﬂux
increases with increasing cross-ﬂow velocity and ﬁltration pres-
sure. The ﬂux increases 50–80%when cross-ﬂow velocity increases
from 0.1 to 0.5m/s. This is because the increase in tangential shear
stress reduces the membrane fouling. On the other hand, although
increasing ﬁltration pressure causes higher ﬁltration driving force,
it also results inmore seriousmembrane fouling. Consequently, the
impact of pressure on theﬁltrationﬂux is insigniﬁcant, especially at
higher cross-ﬂow velocity. It can be said that increasing cross-ﬂow
velocity is more effective to enhance ﬁltration ﬂux.
According to the resistance-in-series model, the basic ﬁltration
equation can be expressed as:
q = 	P
(Rt)
= 	P
(Rc + Rp + Rf + Rm)
(2)
where q is the ﬁltration ﬂux, P is the ﬁltration pressure,  is
the ﬂuid viscosity, and Rt, Rc, Rp, Rf and Rm are the total ﬁltration
resistance and the resistance of the ﬁlter cake, the concentration
Fig. 4. Effects of ﬁltration pressure and cross-ﬂow velocity on the pseudo-steady
ﬂux.
332 K.-J. Hwang, P.-S. Huang / Separation and Puriﬁcation Technology 68 (2009) 328–334
Fig. 8. A plot of qs/(εm · d2m,b) versus Pm,b under various operating conditions.
value of dm,b is estimated using the experimental resistance data,
i.e.,
dm,b =
(
d2m,o ·
Rm
Rf
)0.5
(4)
Once thevalueofdm,b is obtained, the fouledmembraneporosity
can be evaluated from the variation of pore size. Fig. 8 shows a plot
of qs/(εm · d2m,b) versus Pm,b under various operating conditions.
The values of Pm,b are calculated using the fraction of fouled layer
resistance to the total ﬁltration resistance, while the data of qs are
measured in experiments. Because the data for a given cross-ﬂow
velocity are located on the same straight line, as shown in Fig. 8, the
effect of ﬁltration pressure on the fouled layer thickness Lm,b is triv-
ial, and the fouled layer thickness under a ﬁxed cross-ﬂow velocity
can be calculated from the slope. The values of Lm,b under us = 0.1,
0.3 and 0.5m/s are calculated as 1.51, 2.02 and 2.37m, respec-
tively. This reveals that the fouled layer thickness is thin, relative
to the membrane thickness; and the fouled layer is thicker under
higher cross-ﬂow velocity even though the value of dm,b is larger.
Therefore, the membrane fouling model shown in Fig. 7 and Eq. (3)
can be used to correlate the pseudo-steady ﬁltration ﬂux with the
effective membrane pore diameter.
According to the force balance model for particle deposition
in a cross-ﬂow microﬁltration system [5,16], the particle stability
on the membrane surface is affected by the ratio of external net
force in the cross-ﬂow direction to that in the ﬁltration direction,
i.e., w/(qsR0.5t ). Analogizing this concept, the dextran adsorption
amount is inversely proportional to the factor w/(qsR0.5t ). Hence, a
mathematical equation for dm,b estimation can be expressed as:
dm,b = C1
w
qs · R0.5t
+ C2 (5)
where C1 and C2 are two coefﬁcients related tomaterials character-
istics. Fig. 9 shows a plot of dm,b versus w/(qsR0.5t ) under various
operating conditions. Asmentioned previously, the values of qs and
Rt aremeasured in experiments,whiledm,b is calculatedusing resis-
tance data. Because the fouled layer is very thin compared to the
ﬁlter clearance, H, the wall shear stress in the two-parallel-plate
microﬁlter can be calculated by [16]
w = 6usH (6)
The data shown in Fig. 9 can be regressed into a straight line. An
increase in wall shear stress or decrease in ﬁltration ﬂux leads to
Fig. 9. A plot of dm,b versus w/(qsR0.5t ) under various operating conditions.
larger dm,b value. This infers that themembrane fouling (or dextran
adsorption) will be reduced by increasing the cross-ﬂow velocity
or decreasing the ﬁltration ﬂux. Once the coefﬁcients in Eq. (5) are
obtained from the slope and intercept of the regressed line shown
in Fig. 9, the values for qs and dm,b under various conditions can be
solved simultaneously by employing Eqs. (3) and (5). This provides
a semi-theoretical method to predict the ﬁltration ﬂux and dextran
adsorbed layer thickness.
The operating condition effects on the pseudo-steady dextran
rejection coefﬁcient are shown in Fig. 10. When the cross-ﬂow
velocity is lower than 0.3m/s, the rejection coefﬁcient increases
with increasing cross-ﬂow velocity or decreasing ﬁltration pres-
sure. These phenomena are the sameas those presented in previous
studies and can be reasonably explained using the sweeping effect
due to tangential ﬂow [15] or the modiﬁed gel-polarization model
[3,12]. A larger sweeping effect at higher cross-ﬂow velocity or
lower ﬁltration ﬂux under lower pressure will result in larger
dextran rejection coefﬁcients. Taking ﬁltration ﬂux and rejection
coefﬁcient into consideration (refer to both Figs. 4 and10), the sepa-
rationefﬁciencycan thereforebe improvedby increasingcross-ﬂow
velocity or ﬁltration pressure. However, the curve trend is com-
pletely different at higher cross-ﬂow velocity, e.g., us = 0.5m/s.
Although the dextran rejection coefﬁcients are higher than those
Fig. 10. Effects of operating conditions on the dextran rejection coefﬁcient.
334 K.-J. Hwang, P.-S. Huang / Separation and Puriﬁcation Technology 68 (2009) 328–334
Acknowledgement
The authors wish to express their sincere gratitude to the
National Science Council of the Republic of China for its ﬁnancial
support.
References
[1] M.C. Porter, Concentrationpolarizationwithmembraneultraﬁltration, Ind. Eng.
Chem. Prod. Res. Dev. 11 (1972) 234–248.
[2] M. Cheryan, Ultraﬁltration and Microﬁltration Handbook, Technomic Publish-
ing Co., Pennsylvania, USA, 1998, p.113-130.
[3] T.W. Cheng, H.M. Yeh, C.T. Gau, Resistance analyses for ultraﬁltration in tubular
membrane module, Sep. Sci. Technol. 32 (1997) 2623–2640.
[4] G.Belfort, R.H.Davis, A.L. Zydney, Thebehaviorof suspensionsandmacromolec-
ular solutions in crossﬂow microﬁltration, J. Membr. Sci. 96 (1994) 1–58.
[5] W.M. Lu, K.J. Hwang, Cake formation in 2-D cross-ﬂow ﬁltration, A. I. Ch. E. J. 41
(1995) 1443–1455.
[6] J. Hermia, Constant pressure blocking ﬁltration law application to power-law
non-Newtonian ﬂuid, Trans. Inst. Chem. Eng. 60 (1982) 183–187.
[7] K.J. Hwang, T.T. Lin, Effect of morphology of polymeric membrane on the per-
formance of cross-ﬂow microﬁltration, J. Membr. Sci. 199 (2002) 41–52.
[8] K.J.Hwang, C.Y. Liao, K.L. Tung,Analysis of particle foulingduringmicroﬁltration
by use of blocking models, J. Membr. Sci. 287 (2) (2007) 287–293.
[9] S.K. Zaidi, A. Kumar, Experimental studies in the dead-end ultraﬁltration of
dextran: analysis of concentration polarization, Sep. Purif. Technol. 36 (2004)
115–130.
[10] V.Garcia-Molina, S. Esplugas, Th.Wintgens, Th.Melin,Ultraﬁltrationof aqueous
solutions containing dextran, Desalination 188 (2006) 217–227.
[11] W.F. Blatt, A. Dravid, A.S. Michaels, L.M. Nelsen, Solute polarization and cake
formation inmembrane ultraﬁltration, causes, consequences, and control tech-
niques, in: J.E. Flinn (Ed.), Membrane Science and Technology, Plenum Press,
New York, USA, 1970, pp. 47–97.
[12] A.E. Polotsky, A.N. Cherkasov, On the mechanism of ﬂexible chain polymer
ultraﬁltration, Sep. Sci. Technol. 41 (2006) 1773–1787.
[13] E. Iritani, Y.Mukai, T.Murase, Upward dead-end ultraﬁltration of binary protein
mixtures, Sep. Sci. Technol. 30 (3) (1995) 369–382.
[14] K.J. Hwang, Y.H. Cheng, The role of dynamic membrane in cross-ﬂow microﬁl-
tration of macromolecules, Sep. Sci. Technol. 38 (2003) 779–795.
[15] K.J. Hwang, Y.H. Cheng, K.L. Tung, Modeling of cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of
ﬁne particle/macromolecule binary suspension, J. Chem. Eng. Japan 36 (2003)
1488–1497.
[16] K.J. Hwang, K.P. Lin, Cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of dual-sized submicron parti-
cles, Sep. Sci. Technol. 37 (10) (2002) 2231–2249.
[17] R.B. Bird, W.E. Stewart, E.N. Lightfoot, Transport Phenomena, second ed., Wiley
& Sons, NY, USA, 2002, (chapter 2).
[18] W.M. Lu, K.L. Tung, K.J. Hwang, Effect of woven structure on transient charac-
teristics of cake ﬁltration, Chem. Eng. Sci. 52 (11) (1997) 1743–1756.
[19] S. Rodriguez, C. Romero, M.L. Sargenti, A.J. Muller, A.E. Saez, J.A. Odell, Flow
of polymer solutions through porous media, J. Non-Newtonian Fluid Mech. 49
(1993) 63–85.
[20] R.G. Larson, Constitutive Equation for PolymerMelts and Solutions, Butteworth,
Boston, USA, 1988, (chapters 2–11).
[21] S. Flew, R.H.J. Sellin, Non-Newtonian ﬂow in porous media: a laboratory
study of polyacrylamide solutions, J. Non-Newtonian Fluid Mech. 47 (1993)
169–210.
76 K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Journal of Membrane Science 347 (2010) 75–82
model. The concentration polarization or gel layer resistance was
markedly reduced by increasing the cross-ﬂow velocity. Garcia-
Molina et al. [6] indicated that a fouling layerwas formed indextran
ultraﬁltration, which was independent of the used membranes.
Their experimental data showed that an increase in transmem-
brane pressure resulted in higher ﬁltration ﬂux and higher dextran
rejection. These trends were the same as those in most previous
researches [4].
Blatt et al. [7] concluded that the concentration polar-
ization in protein ultraﬁltration could be divided into two
pressure-dependent regimes. The protein rejection decreased with
increasing pressure in the low pressure region. This was attributed
to the increase in polarization concentration. Conversely, gel
layer formation or a reduction in membrane pore size under
higher pressures increased the protein rejection. However, the pro-
tein rejection may be observed to decrease monotonously with
increasing transmembrane pressure. This was attributed to the
deformation of macromolecules with long and ﬂexible chains [8].
Recently, Hwang and Huang [9] carried out the cross-ﬂow micro-
ﬁltration of blue dextran with a molecular weight of 2000kDa. The
membrane pore size was reduced by dextran adsorption during
ﬁltration. The dextran rejection increased with increasing cross-
ﬂow velocity or decreasing transmembrane pressure under lower
cross-ﬂow velocity. They claimed that the contrary trend obtained
under higher ﬁltration ﬂux was attributed to dextran molecular
deformation.
Several researchers have paid attention to the membrane ﬁltra-
tion of bio-mixtures. Iritani et al. [10] performed the ultraﬁltration
of protein mixtures including BSA and egg white lysozyme. They
concluded that the protein electrostatic interactions played major
roles indetermining theﬁltrationﬂuxandprotein rejection.Hwang
and co-workers [11,12] studied the cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of
ﬁneparticle/dextranbinary suspensions. The secondarymembrane
formed by the ﬁne particles reduced the membrane fouling caus-
ing by dextran. The ﬁltration ﬂux and dextran rejection could be
theoretically predicted using their derived models. The dextran
rejection was signiﬁcantly dependent on the tangential sweeping
effect on the membrane surface and the capturing effect of the
formed cake [12]. Vernhet and Moutounet [13] studied membrane
fouling in the cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of red wine. They indi-
cated thatmembrane fouling frequently occurred at themembrane
pore entrances or on the membrane surface. The polysaccharides
in red wind were the major foulants. Ye et al. [14,15] used a sodium
alginate and BSAmixture tomodel the extracellular polymeric sub-
stances existing in a bioreactor. They found that the existence of
BSA resulted in a more compact ﬁlter cake and reduced the sodium
alginate transmission. Susanto et al. [16] studied the membrane
fouling caused by protein/polysaccharide mixtures which were the
major products in a fermentation tank. The fouled layer morphol-
ogywasmarkedlydependenton thepolysaccharide characteristics.
Similar to the resultsofYeet al. [14], they found that the fouled layer
was more rigid and the ﬂux was lower, relative to the ﬁltration per-
formanceof a single component. Thesephenomenawere attributed
to the synergistic effects between protein and polysaccharide.
In this study, BSA anddextran are used as the typical protein and
polysaccharide samples, respectively, in bio-products. Cross-ﬂow
microﬁltration was carried out to separate the binary suspension.
The operating condition effects, e.g., the cross-ﬂow velocity and
transmembrane pressure, on the ﬁltration ﬂux and solute rejec-
tions at pseudo-steady state are discussed. The fouled membrane
pore size and fouled layer thickness are theoretically estimated
using a derived membrane fouling model. The Deborah number
is introduced to indicate molecular deformation, and the operating
condition effects on the dextran selectivity and mean dextran mass
ﬂux are also discussed.
2. Materials and experiments
Bovine serum albumin (BSA) manufactured by United State Bio-
chemical Co. and dextran (T2000) purchased from Sigma Chemical
Co. were used as the protein and polysaccharide samples in this
study. BSAanddextran,withmolecularweights of 67and2000kDa,
respectively, were dissolved in a phosphate buffer solution to pre-
pare the suspensions used in experiments. The BSA and dextran
concentrations were set as 1.0 and 0.5 kg/m3, respectively, to sim-
ulate the condition in fermentation products. The suspension pH
and temperature were kept at 7.0 and 20 ◦C during ﬁltration. The
BSA and dextran molecular sizes in the suspension were mea-
sured using Malvern MRK528-01 Zetasizer Nano System. The BSA
molecules had a mean size of 8nm. However, BSA coagulations as
large as 300nm were frequently found in the suspension. The dex-
tran size distribution ranged from 21 to 300nm with a mean value
of 90nm. A hydrophilic ﬂat-sheet membrane made of mixed cel-
lulose acetate was used in these experiments as the ﬁlter medium.
A fresh membrane was used only for each experiment. The mem-
brane was manufactured by Millipore Co. in USA and possessed a
better BSA rejection property. Its porosity and thickness were 0.75
and 105m, respectively. The mean nominal pore diameter of the
Fig. 1. A schematic diagram of the cross-ﬂow microﬁltration system.
78 K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Journal of Membrane Science 347 (2010) 75–82
Fig. 5. SEM photos for (a) fresh membrane, (b) top-view of the fouled membrane,
and (c) side-view of the fouled membrane under us =0.5m/s and P=100kPa
(×100kX).
found. On the other hand, an increase in cross-ﬂow velocity leads
to a lower Rt value. However, this impact becomes insigniﬁcant
as us >0.3m/s. This implies that the reduction in membrane foul-
ing by increasing cross-ﬂow velocity has an ultimate limit. The
ﬂux cannot be enhanced anymore by increasing cross-ﬂowvelocity
when us exceeds the limiting value. This trend can also be seen in
Fig. 3.
Fig. 5(a) shows a SEM photo of the fresh membrane surface.
Although themixed cellulose acetatemembrane is sponge-like and
isotropic, it has a relatively ﬂat surface with round pore entrances.
Fig. 5(b) and (c) show the top and side-views, respectively, of the
fouled membrane under us =0.5m/s and P=100kPa. Comparing
Fig. 5(a) and (b), the membrane is fouled by solute adsorption onto
the membrane surface and pore walls, leading to a reduction in the
pore size. The mean membrane pore size becomes only 30–60% of
the original value due to the fouling in the conditions of this study.
A thin fouled layer is formed near the membrane pore entrances
instead of complete pore blocking, as shown in Fig. 5(c). Thismicro-
scopic analysis indicates that the ﬁltration resistance is mainly due
to the membrane pore size reduction near the pore entrances. This
result is far different from that in the microﬁltration of ﬁne parti-
cles, in which a ﬁlter cake is formed caused by particle bridging and
accumulation.
The ﬂow of ﬂuids through a porous media was simpliﬁed for
analysis sinceahalf centuryago.Acommonmodelwasusedbycon-
sidering the actual ﬂow system as parallel capillary tubes. Because
the solute adsorbed layer reduces the membrane pore size and
results in major ﬁltration resistance, as shown in Fig. 5, the rela-
tionship between the ﬂuid ﬂow rate and pressure drop through a
fouledmembrane layer can bemodeled using theHagen–Poiseuille
law and expressed as [17]:
qs
εm
=
d2
m,b
32
· Pm,b
Lm,b
(2)
where qs is the pseudo-steady ﬁltration ﬂux, εm is the membrane
surface porosity, dm,b is themeanpore size of the fouledmembrane.
Because the true ﬂuid velocity becomes higher in the membrane
pores, the velocity gradient or the pore tortuosity occurring at the
membrane surface may cause molecular adsorption on the mem-
brane pore walls near the pore entrances and results in a fouled
layer with a thickness (depth) of Lm,b. Therefore, the increase in ﬁl-
tration resistance during ﬁltration is attributed to the reduction in
membrane pore size or the increase in fouled layer thickness.
The variables in Eq. (2) should be estimated prior to understand-
ing the membrane fouling under various conditions. The fouled
layer resistance, Rf, can be measured in experiments using clean
water permeation through the fouled membrane [9,11,12]. The
Pm,b value is then calculated using the fraction of fouled layer
to the total ﬁltration resistances, that is,
Pm,b =
Rf
Rt
· P (3)
According to the analyses in previous studies [9,18], the fouled
membrane resistance is assumed to be inversely proportional to
the openpore surface cross-sectional area. Therefore, the dm,b value
can be estimated using experimental resistance data and expressed
as
dm,b =
(
d2m,o ·
Rm
Rf
)0.5
(4)
wheredm,o andRm are themeanpore size and resistanceof the fresh
membrane. Since the membrane surface porosity is considered to
be proportional to the open pore surface cross-sectional area [9],
the value of εm can be evaluated once the membrane pore size
variation is known by Eq. (4).
Fig. 6 shows a plot of qs/(εm·dm,b2) vs. Pm,b under various
operating conditions. When Pm,b <Pm,b,c (a critical Pm,b), all
data can be regressed into a unique straight line in spite of trans-
membrane pressure and cross-ﬂow velocity. This indicates that the
fouled layer thickness is constant (=25.34m from the regressed
line slope) whatever the operating condition is. However, when
Pm,b exceeds the critical value, the data for a ﬁxed cross-ﬂow
velocity are located on the same straight line. This means the
transmembrane pressure effect on the fouled layer thickness Lm,b
is negligible small. The Lm,b value depends solely on cross-ﬂow
velocity and can be determined by the regressed line slope. In
other words, when Pm,b exceeds the critical value, the fouled
layer thickness becomes thinner than those under low pressure
and increases with increasing cross-ﬂow velocity. Since higher ﬂux
is obtained under higher cross-ﬂow velocity, the fouling (molecu-
lar adsorption) may occur at a deeper location in the membrane
pores as the ﬂux increases. The fouled layer thickness is there-
fore thicker under higher cross-ﬂow velocity. The Lm,b values under
80 K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Journal of Membrane Science 347 (2010) 75–82
Fig. 9. A plot of dm,b versus De′ under various operating conditions.
Because dextran molecules have long and ﬂexible chains, their
ﬂow and adsorption behaviors are signiﬁcantly affected by the
molecular conﬁguration. According to the dumbbell model for
macromolecules [19], the Deborah number, De, is an important
parameter for indicating molecular deformation and ﬂow behav-
iors, which is deﬁned as:
De ≡ ˙ (6)
where  and ˙ are the characteristic relaxation time and
macromolecular elongation rate, respectively. A long-chain macro-
molecule may be in a “coil” conﬁguration under a low Deborah
number and stretches its chains as De increases. The elongation
rate of macromolecules ﬂowing through a fouled membrane can
be evaluated using [20]
˙ = k1
qs(1 − εm)
dm,b
(7)
where k1 is a molecular characteristic constant. Substituting Eq. (7)
into Eq. (6) yields
De = k1
qs(1 − εm)
dm,b
= k2De′ (8)
where k2 is a coefﬁcient combining two constants, k1 and .
Therefore, the De′ value can be used for indicating the molecular
deformation if the dumbbell model is valid. The dm,b values are
plotted againstDe′ under various operating conditions in Fig. 9. The
data reveals that dm,b can be expressed as a unique function of De′,
and a critical Deborah number, De′c =1.56×102, exists. When De′
is smaller than the critical value, the dm,b value linearly decreases
withDe′. In this region, the dm,b value decreaseswith the increase in
ﬁltration ﬂux (by increasing cross-ﬂow velocity or transmembrane
pressure). The pseudo-steady pore size is therefore determined by
the ﬁxed pore wall shear stress, as shown in Fig. 7. However, the
dm,b value remains constantwhenDe′ exceeds the critical value. The
dm,b value is invariant with De′ once the macromolecular chains
are fully stretched. Therefore, the Deborah number and macro-
molecular deformation can be used to explain the membrane pore
reduction in this study.
Excepting the ﬁltration ﬂux, another important factor affecting
separation efﬁciency is the solute rejection (or transmission). The
observed rejection coefﬁcient, Rrej, is deﬁned as:
Rrej ≡ 1 −
Cp
Cb
(9)
where Cb and Cp are the solute concentrations in the bulk suspen-
sion and in the ﬁltrate, respectively. Thus, the rejection can be used
to evaluate the solute fraction which is retained by the membrane.
Fig. 10depicts the cross-ﬂowvelocity and transmembranepressure
effects on the pseudo-steady solute rejection. Although the mono-
molecular size of BSA is only 8nm, which is far smaller than the
membrane pore size, the BSA rejection exceeds 0.6 in all operating
conditions. This is due to the existence of BSA coagulations in the
suspension. TheBSA rejection increaseswith increasing transmem-
brane pressure and cross-ﬂow velocity. This reveals that the BSA
rejection becomes higher under more series membrane fouling.
The BSA rejection increases 30% when transmembrane pressure
increases from 20 to 100kPa. However, an increase in transmem-
brane pressure leads to a lower dextran rejection. The rejection is
contrarily lower for a membrane with smaller effective pore size.
This is because the molecular deformation causes dextran to pen-
etrate through the membrane pores more easily into the ﬁltrate.
Therefore, the data shown in Fig. 10 infers that the BSA rejection is
determined directly by the membrane pore size, while the dextran
rejection is signiﬁcantly affected by the molecular deformation. A
larger rejection difference between BSA and dextran can be seen
under higher transmembrane pressure, although their values are
close to each other under a pressure of 20kPa. The thicker fouled
layer and higher sweeping effect on the membrane surface under
higher cross-ﬂow velocity result in higher BSA and dextran rejec-
tions although the dm,b value is larger. However, the cross-ﬂow
velocity effect on BSA rejection is relatively small.
A parameter, selectivity, can be used in place of the dextran frac-
tional yield in theﬁltrate,which isdeﬁnedas the ratioof theamount
of dextran to the amount of BSA collected in ﬁltrate. The selectiv-
ity values under various conditions are calculated using the data
shown inFig. 10 for comparison. Thedextranselectivity is enhanced
by increasing transmembrane pressure. For instance, under a given
cross-ﬂowvelocityof 0.5m/s, thedextran selectivity increases from
0.5 to 1.8 as the pressure increases from 20 to 100kPa. The dextran
selectivity becomes higher under lower cross-ﬂow velocity. The
highest selectivity is 2.5 under us =0.1m/s and P=100kPa. The
rejection and selectivity data reveal that BSA and dextran are sep-
arated more efﬁciently under lower cross-ﬂow velocity and higher
transmembrane pressure.
Fig. 10. Effects of operating conditions on the BSA and dextran rejection.
82 K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Journal of Membrane Science 347 (2010) 75–82
Nomenclature
Cb solute concentration in the bulk suspension [kg/m3]
Cp solute concentration in the ﬁltrate [kg/m3]
De Deborah number deﬁned in Eq. (6)
De′ modiﬁed Deborah number deﬁned in Eq. (8) [s−1]
dm,o clean membrane pore diameter [m]
dm,b fouled membrane pore diameter [m]
k1 a coefﬁcient deﬁned in Eq. (7)
k2 a coefﬁcient deﬁned in Eq. (8)
Lm,b fouled layer thickness [m]
m mean solute mass ﬂux [kg/m2 s]
q ﬁltration ﬂux [m3/m2 s]
qs pseudo-steady ﬁltration ﬂux [m3/m2 s]
Rf ﬁltration resistance due to membrane fouling [m−1]
Rm ﬁltration resistance of clean membrane [m−1]
Rrej observed solute rejection coefﬁcient at pseudo-
steady state
Rt total ﬁltration resistance [m−1]
t ﬁltration time [s]
us cross-ﬂow velocity [m/s]
Greek letters
P transmembrane pressure [Pa]
Pm,b pressure drop through the fouled membrane [Pa]
εm membrane surface porosity
 relaxation time of macromolecules [s]
˙ elongation rate of macromolecules [s−1]
 ﬂuid viscosity [kg/sm]
w,b shear stress on the membrane pore wall [N/m2]
Subscript
c the critical value
References
[1] I.H. Huisman, P. Prádanos, A. Hernández, The effect of protein–protein and
protein–membrane interactions on membrane fouling in ultraﬁltration, J.
Membr. Sci. 179 (1–2) (2000) 79–90.
[2] C. Güell, R.H. Davis, Membrane fouling during microﬁltration of protein mix-
tures, J. Membr. Sci. 119 (2) (1996) 269–284.
[3] M.Ouammou,N. Tijani, J.I. Calvo, C. Velasco,A.Martín, F.Martínez, F. Tejerina, A.
Hernández, Flux decay in protein microﬁltration through charged membranes
as a function of pH, Colloids Surf. A 298 (3) (2007) 267–273.
[4] M. Cheryan, Ultraﬁltration and Microﬁltration Handbook, Technomic Publish-
ing Co., Pennsylvania, USA, 1998, pp.113–130.
[5] T.W. Cheng, H.M. Yeh, C.T. Gau, Resistance analyses for ultraﬁltration in tubular
membrane module, Sep. Sci. Technol. 32 (1997) 2623–2640.
[6] V.Garcia-Molina, S. Esplugas, Th.Wintgens, Th.Melin,Ultraﬁltrationof aqueous
solutions containing dextran, Desalination 188 (2006) 217–227.
[7] W.F. Blatt, A. Dravid, A.S. Michaels, L.M. Nelsen, Solute polarization and cake
formation inmembraneultraﬁltration, causes, consequences, and control tech-
niques, in: J.E. Flinn (Ed.), Membrane Science and Technology, Plenum Press,
New York, USA, 1970, pp. 47–97.
[8] A.E. Polotsky, A.N. Cherkasov, On the mechanism of ﬂexible chain polymer
ultraﬁltration, Sep. Sci. Technol. 41 (2006) 1773–1787.
[9] K.J. Hwang, P.S. Huang, Cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of dilute macromolecular
suspension, Sep. Purif. Technol. 68 (2009) 328–334.
[10] E. Iritani, Y.Mukai, T.Murase,Upwarddead-endultraﬁltrationof binaryprotein
mixtures, Sep. Sci. Technol. 30 (3) (1995) 369–382.
[11] K.J. Hwang, Y.H. Cheng, The role of dynamic membrane in cross-ﬂow microﬁl-
tration of macromolecules, Sep. Sci. Technol. 38 (2003) 779–795.
[12] K.J. Hwang, Y.H. Cheng, K.L. Tung, Modeling of cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of
ﬁne particle/macromolecule binary suspension, J. Chem. Eng. Jpn. 36 (2003)
1488–1497.
[13] A. Vernhet, M. Moutounet, Fouling of organic microﬁltration membranes by
wine constituents: importance, relative impact of wine polysaccharides and
polyphenols and incidence of membrane properties, J. Membr. Sci. 201 (1–2)
(2002) 103–122.
[14] Y. Ye, P.L. Clech, V. Chen, A.G. Fane, Evolution of fouling during crossﬂow ﬁltra-
tion of model EPS solutions, J. Membr. Sci. 264 (1–2) (2005) 190–199.
[15] Y. Ye, P. LeClech, V. Chen, A.G. Fane, B. Jefferson, Foulingmechanismsof alginate
solutions asmodel extracellular polymeric substances, Desalination175 (2005)
7–20.
[16] H. Susanto, H. Arafat, E.M.L. Janssen, M. Ulbricht, Ultraﬁltration of
polysaccharide–proteinmixtures: elucidation of foulingmechanisms and foul-
ing control bymembranesurfacemodiﬁcation, Sep. Purif. Technol. 63 (3) (2008)
558–565.
[17] R.B. Bird,W.E. Stewart, E.N. Lightfoot, Transport Phenomena, 2ndedition,Wiley
& Sons, NY, USA, 2002, Chapter 2.
[18] W.M. Lu, K.L. Tung, K.J. Hwang, Effect of woven structure on transient charac-
teristics of cake ﬁltration, Chem. Eng. Sci. 52 (11) (1997) 1743–1756.
[19] R.G. Larson, ConstitutiveEquation forPolymerMelts andSolutions, Butteworth,
Boston, USA, 1988, chapters 2–11.
[20] S. Flew, R.H.J. Sellin, Non-Newtonian ﬂow in porous media: a laboratory study
of polyacrylamide solutions, J. Non-Newtonian Fluid Mech. 47 (1993) 169–
210.
428 K.-J. Hwang et al. / Journal of Membrane Science 362 (2010) 427–433
Fig. 1. A schematic diagram of the submerged membrane ﬁltration system.
into ﬁltrate. Use of the membranes with pore sizes similar to pro-
tein size often leads to high protein rejection and relatively low
ﬁltration rate. The ﬁltration ﬂux and protein transmission may
be increased, but the risk of membrane internal fouling due to
cell penetration also increased by using a membrane with larger
pore sizes. To increase protein recovery by considering both ﬁl-
tration ﬂux and protein rejection is therefore an important issue
in membrane bio-separation processes. A membrane blocking –
cake formation comparable submerged membrane ﬁltration sys-
tem was then used to recover proteins from a model bio-product
in this study. PMMA particles and BSA were selected as the sam-
ple cells and proteins, respectively. In the system, the membrane
fouling including cake formation and membrane internal blocking
were mainly attributed to PMMA particle deposition on the mem-
brane surface and in the membrane pores, respectively. Several
hydrodynamic operating conditions, including constant-pressure
ﬁltration, air bubble sparging, periodic backwash and a stepwise
increase in ﬁltration pressure, were used for reducing membrane
fouling, enhancing the permeating ﬂux and increasing the BSA pro-
duction. The effects of these operations on theﬁltration resistances,
ﬁltration ﬂuxes and BSA rejection were thoroughly discussed.
2. Materials and experiments
Spherical particles made of poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA)
were purchased from Soken Co. in Japan (Cat. no.: MX1500H) for
use as the particulate sample in the experiments. The mean parti-
cle diameter anddensitywere 15mand1190kg/m3, respectively.
Bovine serum albumin (BSA), manufactured by USB Co. in Canada,
was used as a typical protein sample. The molecular weight of BSA
was 67,000Da. PMMA particles and BSA were suspended in deion-
ized water to prepare a binary suspension with concentrations of
0.1 and0.05wt.%, respectively. The suspensionpHand temperature
were kept at 7.0 and 20 ◦C, respectively. Under these conditions,
the particle zeta potential was measured as −20mV. The amounts
of BSA adsorbed onto the PMMA particles were measured by a
batch adsorption experiment. Only less than 1.5% of BSA would
be adsorbed during the suspension preparation. A ceramic mem-
brane tubemanufactured by Orelis Co. in France (Kerasep #06040)
was used as the ﬁlter medium. The membrane tube had an inner
diameter of 6.0×10−3 m, an outer diameter of 1.0×10−2 m and
a length of 0.32m. The ﬁltration was performed in an outside-
in scheme, and the pore sizes on the outer surface ranged from
2 to 20m with a mean value of 5.6m. The virgin membrane
resistance was measured as 1.3×1011 m−1 under a pressure of
40kPa.
A schematic diagramof the submergedmembraneﬁltration sys-
tem is shown in Fig. 1. The suspensionwasprepared in a suspension
tank and mixed well using a mechanical mixer. The ﬁltration pres-
sure was supplied by a vacuum pump and indicated on a pressure
gauge. The ﬁltrate was collected into a receiver and weighed using
a load cell during ﬁltration. Themeasured ﬁltrateweight datawere
transferred to a personal computer for further analysis. The BSA
concentration in the ﬁltrate was measured with a UV/visible spec-
trometer at a wavelength of 280nm. When each experiment was
terminated, a chemical–physical cleaningprocesswasused to clean
the fouledmembrane and to restore its original ﬂux characteristics
[11,12].
Besides constant-pressure ﬁltration (CPF), several other operat-
ing conditionswere used in this study to enhance the ﬁltration ﬂux
and to reduceﬁltration resistance.Whenusingaeration techniques,
the air ﬂow rate was adjusted and measured using a rotameter.
Air bubbles were dispersed using a diffuser installed under the
membrane tube. In a periodic backwash operation, a constant rate
deionizedwater streamwasﬂushedback through themembrane in
an inside-out scheme, followed by 9000 s of ﬁltration in each cycle.
For the stepwise pressure increase (SPI) operation, the ﬁltration
pressure was increased by 10kPa after every 3000 s of ﬁltration.
For instance, if the initial ﬁltration pressure was set to 20kPa, the
ﬁltration pressure would be increased to 70kPa at 18,000 s, and
the average ﬁltration pressure during the entire process would be
45kPa.
3. Results and discussion
The predominant ﬁltration resistances in a microﬁltration pro-
cess are caused by the ﬁlter cake Rc, themembrane internal fouling
Rif and the cleanmembrane Rm. Therefore, considering these resis-
tances in series, the basic ﬁltration equation can be expressed as:
q = P
(Rt)
= P
(Rc + Rif + Rm)
(1)
where q is the ﬁltration ﬂux, P is the ﬁltration pressure,  is the
ﬂuid viscosity and Rt is the overall ﬁltration resistance. The Rt value
can be calculated by substituting ﬁltration ﬂux data into Eq. (1),
while theRm value canbeobtained fromthepurewater permeation
data. When a ﬁltration procedure is terminated, the cake formed
on the membrane surface is washed away by spraying deionized
water. Because the ﬁltration resistance due to solute concentra-
tion polarization is negligibly small compared to the other sources
of resistance in the methods used in study, the value of Rif can
be determined from the difference between the pure water ﬂuxes
before and after cake removal. The Rc value is then calculated using
Eq. (1) once the other resistances are known.
Fig. 2 shows the values ofRif andRc during the constant-pressure
ﬁltration of pure PMMA andmixed PMMA/BSA binary suspensions
under various ﬁltration pressures. Because some membrane pore
sizes are larger than particle size, PMMA particles have opportu-
nity to penetrate into the membrane pores. As a result, the Rif
value is much higher than Rc, and this difference becomes larger
under higher ﬁltration pressures. The Rif value increases nearly lin-
early with increasing ﬁltration pressure, as higher pressures result
in higher ﬂuxes in the initial periods and lead particles to pen-
etrate more easily into the membrane pores. In contrast, the Rc
value decreases only slightly as pressure increases. This behavior
is observed because a decrease in ﬁltration ﬂux under higher pres-
sure diminishes particle deposition on the membrane surface. The
Rif value is markedly higher for the binary suspension than for the
pure PMMA suspension, even under the same ﬁltration pressure.
Because somemembranepores areblockedbyPMMAparticles, BSA
may be captured in the narrowed membrane pores and becomes
a signiﬁcant contributor to the internal fouling of the membrane.
However, the presence of BSAmolecules has only a trivial effect on
the cake ﬁltration resistance. This observation reveals that PMMA
430 K.-J. Hwang et al. / Journal of Membrane Science 362 (2010) 427–433
Fig. 5. Variations of Rif and Rc values with backwash cycle.
following power-law empirical equations:
Rif = Rif,N=1 · N0.69 (2)
Rc = Rc,N=1 · N0.14 (3)
where Rif,N=1 and Rc,N=1 are the Rif and Rc values in the ﬁrst cycle,
respectively. These power-law empirical equations are similar to
those found in previous studies on backwash operation efﬁciency
[12,14]. The data also reveal a more rapid increase in Rif after the
backwash cleans the membrane. The Rif value is only 30% higher
than Rc at the beginning of ﬁltration; however, it becomes 4-fold
higher than Rc after 10 cycles of operation.
The ﬁltration ﬂux recovery results for various operating cycles
under three different backwash ﬂow rates are summarized in
Table 1. A 4min backwash operation was followed with 30min ﬁl-
tration in each cycle, and the ﬁltration pressure was kept under
40kPa. The ﬂux recovery can be found to decrease with each
operation cycle. Because the internal fouling of themembrane con-
tinuously increases, only approximately 5% of the initial ﬁltration
ﬂux can be recovered after 3 cycles. Furthermore, the membrane
will bewashedcleanerwithahigherbackwashﬂowrate.Asa result,
the ﬁltration ﬂux recovery increases accordingly, especially before
the third cycle.
Stepwise pressure increase (SPI) operationswith different back-
wash ﬂow rates were used in this study tomitigate particle fouling
and to enhance ﬁltrate ﬂux. Fig. 6 shows the time series of ﬁltra-
tion ﬂux under various SPI conditions. All experiments shown in
this ﬁgure were done without aeration. For constant-pressure ﬁl-
tration (CPF), the ﬁltration pressure was ﬁxed at 45kPa during the
entire process, while the pressure increased stepwise from 20 to
70kPa in the SPI operations. The ﬁltration ﬂux in CPF decayed very
quickly in the early ﬁltration period and then gradually approached
a pseudo-steady value after 4000 s. This behavior occurs because
particles are difﬁcult to deposit on the membrane surface under
Table 1
Comparison of ﬂux recovery after different backwash cycles.
0.1wt.% PMMA+0.05wt.% BSA, P=40kPa, tf =30min, tb =4min
Backwash ﬂow rate (m3/m2 s) Backwash cycle no.
0 1 3 5 7
5.53×10−5 100% 16% 9% 6% 5%
8.30×10−5 100% 23% 16% 7% 5%
1.66×10−4 100% 31% 18% 8% 6%
Fig. 6. Time series of ﬁltration ﬂuxes under various CPF and SPI operations.
such low ﬁltration ﬂuxes after long time periods. Because internal
fouling is very severe in the ﬁltration system, operating at a low
pressure early on in the ﬁltration process is an effective method
for diminishing the drastic increase in ﬁltration resistance caused
by fouling. When a ﬁlter cake forms on the membrane surface, it
acts similarly to a secondary membrane, preventing further inter-
nal fouling of themembrane [6,8,10]. Thus, the increase in ﬁltration
pressure late in the ﬁltration operation enhances the ﬁltration ﬂux.
As can be seen in the comparison of CPF and SPI results shown in
Fig. 6, the ﬂux will suddenly increase when ﬁltration pressure is
increased. The ﬂuxes in the SPI operations are indeed much higher
than those using CPF, especially in the earlier periods. Although
the average ﬁltration pressure over the course of each of these pro-
cesses is nearly the same, the SPI operations result in a cumulative
ﬂux that is more than 3-fold higher than that achieved by CPF. The
triangle and square symbols shown in the ﬁgure represent back-
wash operations performed before pressure increases in the SPI
operations. Backwash operations weremaintained for 4min under
different water ﬂow rates. Because PMMA particles more easily
migrate into the membrane pores after a backwash, the backwash
ﬂow rate exhibits no obvious effect on the ﬁltration ﬂux. A com-
parison of the results from SPI operations reveals that backwashing
signiﬁcantly enhances the ﬁltration ﬂux only for a short period of
time.
Fig. 7 shows the ﬁltration resistances at 18,000 s under the
same operating conditions as those in Fig. 6. The data indicate that
the SPI technique reduces the Rif value to be roughly half of that
observed for the CPF process under the same average pressure. In
contrast, backwashing, especially under a higher backwash ﬂow
rate, increases the Rif value, as removal of the ﬁlter cake allows for
greater internal fouling of the membrane. However, SPI operations
have a smaller effect on the Rc value. A higher ﬁltration ﬂux in SPI
modecausesmorecake formation, butbackwashingcan reduce this
ﬁlter cake, and a higher backwash ﬂow rate leads to less cake for-
mation. In conclusion, SPI operation can signiﬁcantly reduce overall
ﬁltration resistance, but applying additional backwash under SPI
conditions has no obvious effects on ﬂux enhancement or resis-
tance reduction.
Another method for reducing ﬁltration resistance is to sparge
air bubbles using a diffuser located under the membrane tube. The
effects of the air volumetric ﬂow rate on the ﬁltration resistances
are shown in Fig. 8. The aeration bubble sizes ranged from 3 to
6mm depending on the air ﬂow rate. Compared with the CPF data
432 K.-J. Hwang et al. / Journal of Membrane Science 362 (2010) 427–433
Table 2
The received ﬁltrate volumes per unit area at 18,000 s under various operating conditions.
CPF SPI (averageﬁltrationpressure =45kPa) Backwash (P=40kPa) Aeration (P=40kPa)
P (kPa) vt (m3/m2) qb (m3/m2 s) tb (min) vt (m3/m2) qb (m3/m2 s) tb (min) vt (m3/m2) Q×103 (m3/s) vt (m3/m2)
20 0.5523 No backwash 1.0817 1.66×10−4 2 0.5374 0.59 0.6675
32 0.4242 qb =1.66×10−4
tb =2
1.1687 4 0.4684 1.18 0.6330
40 0.3718 8.30×10−5 2 0.4758 1.77 0.6291
45 0.3535 qb =8.30×10−5
tb =2
1.1565 4 0.4552 2.36 0.5334
60 0.3272
Fig. 10. Comparison of BSA rejection in CPF at 18,000 s between calculated results
and experimental data.
cake surface as well as BSA rejection. Combining a concentra-
tion polarization model and the standard capture equation for
depth ﬁltration, Hwang and co-workers [6,10] derived a theoret-
ical equation to correlate rejection, ﬁltration ﬂux, cake thickness
and a mass transfer coefﬁcient in cross-ﬂowmicroﬁltration of par-
ticle/macromolecule binary suspensions:
ln
[
exp
(
qs
k
)
·
(
Rrej
1 − Rrej
)
+ 1
]
= (Lc + Lm) (5)
where k is the mass transfer coefﬁcient,  is a screening parameter
representing the fraction of macromolecules rejected by the cake
per unit thickness and Lc and Lm are the cake thickness and the
equivalent membrane thickness, respectively. The BSA rejection
under various conditions can then be estimated using Eq. (5) once
the cake thickness and ﬁltration ﬂux are known. Fig. 10 shows a
comparison of BSA rejection between calculated results and exper-
imental data forCPFunder variousﬁltrationpressures. Asdescribed
previously, BSA rejection decreases with increasing ﬁltration pres-
sure due to the decrease in cake thickness. Although the ﬁltration
ﬂux is higher under lower ﬁltration pressures, as shown in Fig. 3,
the BSA concentration in the ﬁltrate is lower under such condi-
tions. Furthermore, a goodprediction of BSA rejection can be found.
This ﬁnding demonstrates the appropriate use of the theoretical
derivation shown above. In this case, cake formation is the main
determinant of BSA rejection.
To compare the effectiveness of different operating conditions,
the BSA production in the ﬁltrate after 18,000 s under roughly the
same ﬁltration pressure but varying other conditions is shown
in Fig. 11. The most important factors affecting BSA production
include the ﬁltration ﬂux and BSA rejection. However, the effects
of the operating conditions on BSA rejection are negligibly small,
except when aeration is used, as shown in Fig. 9. The ﬁltration ﬂux
Fig. 11. Comparison of BSA production under various operating conditions.
is therefore the most important factor in determining BSA produc-
tion. Referring to Figs. 3 and 10, both the ﬁltration ﬂux and BSA
rejection decreasewith increasing ﬁltration pressure in CPF. There-
fore, an increase in ﬁltration pressure in CPF is unimportant with
regards to increasing BSA production. Because periodic backwash
beneﬁts both ﬂux enhancement and cake removal, BSA produc-
tion in backwash operations is higher than that in CPF alone for
the same pressure of 40kPa, and BSA production increases with
increasing backwash ﬂow rate. Although air bubble sparging can
also increase the ﬁltration ﬂux, BSA rejection rises more than 3-
fold under aeration conditions. Therefore, the BSA production is
lower when aeration is used thanwith CPF alone. Furthermore, the
ﬁltration ﬂux is signiﬁcantly increased for SPI operations, though
the BSA rejection is only slightly higher. As a result, BSA produc-
tion for SPI operation is much higher than for the other operating
modes, especially when SPI is combined with a periodic backwash.
However, the effectiveness of backwash operations in SPI is not
noticeable because of the increase in Rif value, which is shown in
Figs. 6 and 7.
4. Conclusions
Several hydrodynamic methods, such as increasing the ﬁltra-
tion pressure, employing additional periodic backwashes, using
air bubble sparging and applying stepwise increases in pressure,
were used to reduce ﬁltration resistance, enhance ﬁltration ﬂux
and increase BSA production in the membrane blocking/cake for-
mation comparable ﬁltration system. The ﬁltration resistance due
to internal fouling of the membrane was much higher than that
due to ﬁlter caking under most conditions. BSA molecules played
an important role in determining the ﬁltration resistance caused
by internal fouling while displaying a trivial effect on the cake
Effect of air-sparging on the cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of microbe/protein
bio-suspension
Kuo-Jen Hwang *, Ling Chen
Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, Tamkang University, Taipei Hsien 25137, Taiwan
1. Introduction
Cross-ﬂow microﬁltration has been increasingly used in the
separation or puriﬁcation of bio-products, such as microbial cells,
proteins and extracellular polymer substances, in biochemical
processes. Although it is an efﬁcient and economic operation in
many cases, the ﬂux decay causing by membrane fouling is
frequently a serious problem in maintaining high operation
performance. The membrane fouling phenomena are much
complicate because of the co-existence of many components in
a bio-product stream. Therefore, to understand the ﬁltration
mechanism of multi-component suspension is an essential course
to improve the ﬁltration ﬂux and bio-product recovery.
When ﬁne particles andmacromolecules are co-existence in the
suspension, the ﬁlter cake formed by the ﬁne particlesmay prevent
the membrane fouling causing by macromolecular adsorption and
induce a high ﬁltration ﬂux (Arora and Davis, 1994; Guell et al.,
1999; Hwang and Lin, 2005; Hwang and Hwang, 2006; Hwang
et al., 2003). In those studies of cross-ﬂowmicroﬁltration of binary
suspensions with no air-sparging, Hwang and Lin (2005) and
Hwang et al. (2003) indicated that the ﬁlter cake formed by ﬁne
particles played the major role in determining the ﬁltration
resistance and the macromolecule rejection. They used the
standard capture equation for depth ﬁltration for modeling the
penetration of macromolecules through the ﬁlter cake, and
employed a force balancemodel for particle deposition to estimate
the ﬁltration ﬂux and cake thickness.
The ﬁltration ﬂux may be effectively enhanced by sparging air
bubbles into the ﬁlter channel (Cui andWright, 1994, 1996; Hwang
and Wu, 2008; Mercier-Bonin et al., 2000; Mikula´sˇek et al., 2002;
Pospisˇil et al., 2004). It is because the cake mass is reduced by
increasing the shear stress acting on the membrane surface. The
shear stress depends not only on the ﬂuid velocities but also on the
gas–liquid ﬂow pattern. A gas injection factor, u, was deﬁned to
indicate the gas–liquid ﬂow pattern (Cabassud et al., 2001), that is,
u ug
ug þ us (1)
where ug and us are the superﬁcial velocities of gas and liquid,
respectively. The ﬂow is bubbly when u < 0.2, is a slug ﬂow when
Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 41 (2010) 564–569
A R T I C L E I N F O
Article history:
Received 7 September 2009
Received in revised form 13 December 2009
Accepted 19 December 2009
Keywords:
Cross-ﬂow microﬁltration
Air-sparging
Cake properties
Protein rejection
Bio-separation
A B S T R A C T
The effect of air-sparging on the performance of cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of microbe/protein bio-
suspension is studied. A yeast/BSA binary suspension is separated using a two-parallel-plate cross-ﬂow
microﬁlter. The pseudo-steady ﬁltration ﬂux, cake properties and BSA rejection under various operating
conditions are measured and discussed. The ﬁltration ﬂux increases with increasing ﬁltration pressure,
suspension and air velocities. The cake mass is signiﬁcantly reduced by sparging air bubbles due to the
increase in wall shear stress; however, this impact becomes trivial when air velocity exceeds 0.04 m/s.
The average speciﬁc cake ﬁltration resistance increases with increasing air velocity in a bubble ﬂow,
while suddenly decreases when the ﬂow pattern changes to a slug ﬂow. A drastic increase in BSA
rejection is found as air bubbles are sparged into the ﬁlter channel. An increase in air ﬂow velocity leads
to higher BSA rejection especially in a slug ﬂow regime. Taking ﬁltration ﬂux and BSA rejection into
account, the BSA mass ﬂux transported into ﬁltrate decreases with increasing air velocity. Although
sparging air bubbles can effectively enhance ﬁltration ﬂux, it is helpless for the separation of BSA from
yeast cells. The results also indicate that the ﬂuid ﬂow pattern plays an important role in determining the
ﬁltration performance. The cakemass and BSA rejection in different ﬂow regimes can bemodeled using a
force balance model for particle deposition and the standard capture equation for depth ﬁltration,
respectively.
 2010 Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
* Corresponding author. Tel.: +886 2 26215656x2726; fax: +886 2 26209887.
E-mail address: kjhwang@mail.tku.edu.tw (K.-J. Hwang).
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers
journal homepage: www.elsev ier .com/ locate / j t i ce
1876-1070/$ – see front matter  2010 Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.jtice.2009.12.005
under 75 kPa. Of course, an increase in ﬁltration pressure leads to
higher ﬁltration ﬂux because of the higher driving force.
Fig. 3 shows the effects of suspension and air velocities on the
pseudo-steady ﬁltration ﬂux under a ﬁxed ﬁltration pressure of
25 kPa. The ﬂux increases with increasing suspension or air
velocity. It is because the higher resulting wall shear stress
diminishes the cake formation. However, the ﬂux enhancement
causing by increasing suspension velocity ismore signiﬁcant under
lower air velocity. The ﬂux increases 150% as us increases from 0.1
to 0.5 m/s in the condition of no air-sparging, while it increases
only 25% in the same range under ug = 0.06 m/s. On the other hand,
the air velocity impact on the ﬁltration ﬂux is higher under lower
suspension velocity. The ﬂux becomes double as ug increase from 0
to 0.06 m/s under a ﬁxed us of 0.1 m/s, while less than 15% of the
original ﬂux can be increased in the same used range under
us = 0.5 m/s.
The cake masses at pseudo-steady states under various air
velocities and ﬁltration pressures are shown in Fig. 4. An increase
in gas velocity leads to a lighter cake. The cakemass can be reduced
more than 50% by sparging air bubbles due to the increase in the
shear stress acting on the membrane surface. However, this effect
becomes trivial as ug exceeds 0.04 m/s. This implies that it is
impossible to completely inhibit a cake formation by increasing air
velocity. As those in most ﬁltration, the cake mass increases with
increasing ﬁltration pressure. This is because the higher driving
force results in more yeast cell deposition. Furthermore, the cake
masses in the ﬁltration of yeast suspension under us = 0.3 m/s and
DP = 50 kPa are also shown in Fig. 4 for comparison. Under a given
gas velocity, no evident cakemass difference between the ﬁltration
of single and binary suspensions can be found. This indicates that
the cake is mainly constructed by yeast cells, and the existence of
BSA plays a negligible effect on the cake formation.
According to Darcy’s law, the basic ﬁltration equation can be
expressed as:
q ¼ DP
mðwc  aav þ RmÞ (2)
where m is the liquid viscosity, aav is the average speciﬁc cake
ﬁltration resistance, and Rm is the ﬁltration resistance of a clean
[(Fig._1)TD$FIG]
Fig. 1. A schematic diagram of cross-ﬂow microﬁltration system.
[(Fig._3)TD$FIG]
Fig. 3. Effects of operating conditions on the pseudo-steady ﬁltration ﬂux.
[(Fig._2)TD$FIG]
Fig. 2. Time courses of ﬁltration ﬂux during cross-ﬂow ﬁltration under various
ﬁltration pressures.
K.-J. Hwang, L. Chen / Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 41 (2010) 564–569566
3.2. Model analysis
According to the authors’ previous studies (Hwang and Hsu,
2009; Hwang and Wu, 2008), the shear stress acting on the
membrane surface in a bubble ﬂow can be estimated using a
liquid–gas two-phase ﬂow model; while it in a slug ﬂow can be
obtained by summing the stresses produced in the liquid ﬁlm
around gas bubbles and in the liquid slugs. The resultingwall shear
stress increases with increasing the suspension or air velocities
especially in the slug ﬂow regime. Fig. 8 shows a plot of wc vs. tw/
(qs  up). The values of wc and qs are measured under various
conditions, while tw and up (particle lift force) are calculated using
hydrodynamic models (Hwang and Hsu, 2009). According to the
force balance model for particle deposition (Hwang and Hwang,
2006; Hwang and Lin, 2005), the particle stability on the
membrane surface is determined by the force ratio in the cross-
ﬂow to the ﬁltration directions, i.e., tw/(qs  up). Although the data
are obtained under different conditions, the cake mass linearly
decreases with the increase of tw/(qs  up) value in each ﬂow
pattern. It can be expected since an increase in wall shear stress or
decrease in the drag force in the ﬁltration direction causes the
yeast cells to be more difﬁcult to deposit. Because the shear stress
strongly depends on the ﬂow pattern, the different empirical
functions are obtained in different ﬂow regimes. However, the
unique linear relationships provide a way to estimate the cake
mass directly from operating conditions.
Since the BSA concentration polarization layer next to the yeast
cake surface cannot build upwell due to the disturbance of ﬂowing
bubbles, the BSA concentration which can actually penetrate into
the ﬁlter cake is Cb(1  f) (Hwang and Lin, 2005). The parameterf
is the sweeping factor which represents the fraction of BSA being
swept away from the cake surface by the tangential ﬂuid ﬂow.
According to the analyses in authors’ previous studies (Hwang and
Hwang, 2006; Hwang and Lin, 2005; Hwang et al., 2003), the
penetration of BSA through the ﬁlter cake can bemodeled using the
standard capture equation for depth ﬁltration. The BSA rejection is
therefore calculated by the following equation:
Rre j ¼ 1 ð1 fÞ exp½gðLc þ LmÞ (4)
where Lc is the cake thickness, Lm is the equivalent thickness of the
membrane, and g is the screening parameter representing the BSA
fraction being rejected by unit cake thickness. Rearranging above
equation yields:
lnð1 Rre jÞ ¼ gLc þ ½lnð1 fÞ  gLm (5)
Since the parameters g and f are considered as constants under a
ﬁxed ﬂuid ﬂow condition (Hwang and Hwang, 2006), these
parameters can be obtained from the slope and intercept of the
straight line in a semi-logarithm plot of (1  Rrej) and Lc. Fig. 9
shows the plots under various air ﬂow rates. The data under ﬁxed
suspension and air velocities can be regressed to a straight line
whatever the ﬁltration pressure is. This implies that the effects of
cake porosity and ﬁltration ﬂux on the screening parameter are
negligible small. Since the screen parameters under various ﬂuid
ﬂow conditions are nearly the same, the increase in BSA rejection
with air velocity, as shown in Fig. 6, is mainly attributed to the
increase in sweeping factor. The BSA rejection can then be
estimated once the parameters in Eq. (5) are known.
4. Conclusions
The inﬂuence of air-sparging on the performance of cross-ﬂow
microﬁltration of yeast/BSA binary suspension was studied. The
[(Fig._7)TD$FIG]
Fig. 7. Effects of operating conditions on the BSA mass ﬂux.
[(Fig._8)TD$FIG]
Fig. 8. A plot of wc vs. tw/(qs  up) under various conditions.
[(Fig._9)TD$FIG]
Fig. 9. A plot of 1  Rrej vs. Lc under various conditions.
K.-J. Hwang, L. Chen / Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 41 (2010) 564–569568
Chemical Engineering Journal 166 (2011) 669–677
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Chemical Engineering Journal
journa l homepage: www.e lsev ier .com/ locate /ce j
Membrane fouling mechanism and concentration effect in cross-ﬂow
microﬁltration of BSA/dextran mixtures
Kuo-Jen Hwang ∗, Pan-Yu Sz
Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, Tamkang University, Tamsui, Taipei Hsien 25137, Taiwan
a r t i c l e i n f o
Article history:
Received 28 June 2010
Received in revised form 8 November 2010
Accepted 11 November 2010
Keywords:
Cross-ﬂow microﬁltration
Membrane fouling
Membrane ﬁltration
Bio-separation
a b s t r a c t
Membrane fouling in BSA/dextran binary suspension cross-ﬂow microﬁltration under various operating
conditions is studied. The mechanisms for membrane fouling based on the SEM and CSLM observations
under various suspension concentrations are proposed. BSA aggregates deposit onto the membrane sur-
face while dextran molecules adsorb into the membrane pores, resulting in ﬁltration resistances. The
BSA deposition is mainly determined by the drag forces exerted on BSA aggregates on the membrane
surface. Dextran adsorption is affected by the dextran concentration and applied pressure. The concen-
tration effects on the ﬁltration ﬂux and ﬁltration resistance are also discussed. The ﬁltration ﬂuxes for
BSA/dextran mixtures are located between those for two pure substances and decrease with the increase
in either the BSA or dextran concentration. However, the dextran concentration impact is more signif-
icant because the ﬁltration resistance caused by membrane blocking is much higher than that caused
by cake formation in most conditions. The ﬁltration resistances due to concentration polarization, cake
formation and membrane internal fouling can be estimated directly from the operating conditions using
the semi-theoretical methods proposed in this study.
© 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
Membrane ﬁltration has been widely used in the separation and
puriﬁcation of biological products in biotechnology. This is because
it could have the advantages of high product selectivity, high sep-
aration efﬁciency and high system integration ﬂexibility through
optimummembrane selection andmodule design. However,mem-
brane fouling during a ﬁltration may markedly reduce the ﬁltration
ﬂux, decrease product quality and consequently increase the oper-
ating costs. Alleviating membrane fouling is therefore the most
important course to achieve optimum operations. Membrane foul-
ing in membrane ﬁltration is possible due to solute adsorption,
particle deposition, membrane blocking, or concentration polar-
ization [1]. Because multiple components, such as microbial cells,
proteins, polysaccharides, or humic acids, always coexist in biolog-
ical products, the membrane fouling mechanisms are complex and
dependent on the physical and chemical characteristics of foulant
and membrane. Thus, the fouling mechanisms caused by different
foulants, especially by bio-mixtures with different compositions,
have not been well analyzed yet.
Many factors, such as membrane characteristics, particle or
solute properties, operating conditions, etc., affect membrane foul-
ing during a ﬁltration [1]. In previous studies on the membrane
∗ Corresponding author. Tel.: +886 2 26215656x2726; fax: +886 2 26209887.
E-mail address: kjhwang@mail.tku.edu.tw (K.-J. Hwang).
ﬁltration of pure Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA), Tracey and Davis
[2] and Bowen et al. [3] indicated that the membrane pore size
and BSA concentration played important roles in membrane foul-
ing in microﬁltration. The membrane fouling type changed from
internal blocking into cake formation after a period of ﬁltration.
Huisman et al. [4] claimed that the interaction between BSA and
membrane determined the early stage membrane fouling, while
the later period performance of the cross-ﬂow ultraﬁltration was
dependent on the BSA interactions. Güell and Davis [5] studied the
ultraﬁltration of protein mixtures using four kinds of membranes.
The membrane fouling was attributed to the interactions between
protein functional groups. Ouammou et al. [6] concluded that the
protein zeta potential was the most important factor affecting
membrane fouling in protein microﬁltration. Iritani et al. [7] stud-
ied the ultraﬁltration of protein mixtures including BSA and egg
white lysozyme. They also concluded that the protein electrostatic
interactions played an important role in determining membrane
foulingandﬁltrationﬂux.Reducingcake formationusinghighshear
stresses or vortexﬂowswasdemonstrated as anefﬁcientmethod to
enhance separation efﬁciency in the ﬁltration of protein mixtures
[1,8].
Different approaches were also proposed in previous studies.
Blatt et al. [9] claimed that membrane fouling in protein ultra-
ﬁltration could be divided into two pressure-dependent regimes.
The polarization concentration increased with increasing pres-
sure in the low pressure region, while a gel layer formation or a
reduction in membrane pore size occurred under high pressures.
1385-8947/$ – see front matter © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.cej.2010.11.044
K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Chemical Engineering Journal 166 (2011) 669–677 671
Fig. 2. A schematic diagram of the cross-ﬂow microﬁltration system.
rejection property. The mean pore diameter on the virgin mem-
brane surfacewasmeasured at 295nmusing aPower ImageAnalysis
System.
A schematic diagram of the cross-ﬂow microﬁltration system
is shown in Fig. 2. The clearance, width and length of the effec-
tive ﬁltration region in the two-parallel-plate micro-ﬁlter were
1.0×10−3 m, 2.0×10−2 and 5.5×10−2 m, respectively. Only the
bottom plate was permeable and installed with a ﬁlter mem-
brane. The suspension was prepared in a suspension tank, agitated
using a magnetic mixer and kept isothermal using a thermostat.
The suspension was pumped into the microﬁlter using a Millipore
7518-00 Peristaltic Pump. The measured results of protein size dis-
tributions indicated that the protein aggregation was not obvious
change by the pumping shear. The cross-ﬂow velocity and ﬁltra-
tion pressure were adjusted using a rotameter and a needle valve,
respectively. The concentrate was pumped back to the suspension
tank, while the ﬁltrate was collected into a ﬂask and weighed using
a load cell. The ﬁltration data were then recorded on a personal
computer for further calculation. When an experiment was termi-
nated, the ﬁltrate viscosity was measured using Brookﬁeld LVDV-II
viscometer. The fouled membrane was sent to perform Scanning
Electron Microscopy (SEM) using Leo-1530 Field Emission Scanning
Electron Microscopy or Confocal Scanning Laser Microscopy (CSLM)
using Leica TCS-SP5 Confocal Spectral Microscope Imaging System.
In CSLM analysis, the selected ﬂuorescent dyes for BSA and dex-
tran were Fluorescein-5-Isothiocyanate FITC “Isomer I” (FITC) and
Concanavalin A-Tetramethylrhodamine Conjugate (ConA), respec-
tively.
The sources of ﬁltration resistances included concentration
polarization layer, membrane fouling and the virgin membrane.
These resistances were measured in experiments. The virgin mem-
brane resistance was measured before each experiment by ﬂowing
de-ionized water through the membrane, while the overall ﬁltra-
tion resistance was calculated by substituting ﬁltration ﬂux and
pressure data into the basic ﬁltration equation. As soon as an
experiment was completed, the suspension ﬂow was switched
instantaneously to de-ionized water. Because the concentration
polarization layer was swept away from the region near the mem-
brane surface, the ﬁltration ﬂux was suddenly increased, and the
ﬁltration resistance caused by concentration polarization layer
was calculated from the difference between the overall ﬁltration
resistance before and after changing feeds. The dextran desorp-
tion from membrane pores in such a short period was negligible.
The resistance caused by membrane fouling was then calculated
using the basic ﬁltration equation once the other resistances were
obtained.
3. Results and discussion
Fig. 3(a)–(h) shows SEM photos of the membranes fouled by
different concentrations of BSA/dextran mixtures after 3-h ﬁltra-
tion under us =0.3m/s and P=60kPa. The top- and side-view of
the membrane fouled by pure BSA with a concentration of 1 kg/m3
are shown in Fig. 3(a) and (b), respectively. Fig. 3(a) illustrates
that some BSA aggregates several hundred nanometers in size are
retained on the membrane surface, forming a ﬁlter cake. The “gel-
like” cake layer is rather compact compared to those formed by
incompressible particles (e.g., glass beads, metal powders or some
polymeric particles) with a similar size. However, a few membrane
pores remained open on the surface after 3-h ﬁltration. The side-
viewof the fouledmembrane, Fig. 3(b), indicates that theBSA fouled
layer is very thin (only several hundred micrometers) with no BSA
molecule adsorbed into the walls of the membrane pores. These
phenomena reveal that the resistance in pure BSA ﬁltration is due
mainly to the thin cake layer formed on the membrane surface.
Fig. 3(c)–(h) is images of membranes fouled by BSA/dextran
mixtures with different concentrations. Fig. 3(c) and (d) shows the
top- and side-view, respectively, of the fouled membrane under
CB =1kg/m3 and CD =0.5 kg/m3. BSA aggregates with an approx-
imate size of 300nm form a “spot-like” thin cake layer on the
membrane surface. Only a part of the membrane surface area
is covered with deposited BSA after 3-h ﬁltration. Some dex-
tran molecules are found to adsorb onto the sponge-like interior
membrane pores near the pore entrances. The membrane pores
are narrowed due to the dextran adsorption, which results in a
signiﬁcant ﬁltration resistance. When the dextran concentration
was doubled, the BSA cake structure and thickness were nearly
the same, as shown in Fig. 3(e) and (f). However, more dextran
molecules were found to adsorb into the membrane pores under
such higher dextran concentration. Because this effect causes the
pore size of the fouled membrane to be smaller, the ﬁltration
resistance is expected to increase noticeably. When the BSA con-
centration was doubled but CD remains as 0.5 kg/m3, most of the
membrane surface area is covered with BSA aggregates, while the
cake thickness is still thin after 3h, as shown in Fig. 3(g) and (h).
The aggregate size increases to 1–2m and the shape changes
to spheroidal in higher BSA concentration conditions. Because the
dextran adsorption was similar under the same dextran concentra-
tion, as shown in Fig. 3(d) and (h), the increase in overall ﬁltration
resistance with increasing BSA concentration is mainly attributed
to more BSA deposition.
Applying ﬂuorescent dye to fouled membrane sampling, BSA
and dextran in CSLM can be observed in green and red colors,
respectively. The results of pure BSA and dextran under a dead-end
ﬁltration of P=20kPa are shown in Fig. 4(a) and (b) as blanks.
Fig. 4(c) and (d) shows typical photos of CSLM under CB =1kg/m3,
CD =0.5 kg/m3 and us =0.1m/s. The ﬁltration pressures in Fig. 4(c)
and (d) are 20kPa and 100kPa, respectively. It can be seen that the
color on most of the membrane surface is green. This reveals that
BSA is the main constituent of the foulant on the membrane sur-
face. Furthermore, the green ﬂuorescence is more intense and can
be detected in deeper locations under higher ﬁltration pressure, as
those cross-sections shown on the right and bottom of Fig. 4(c) and
(d). This indicates that the BSA foul layer is thicker under higher
pressure.
According to the SEM and CSLM discussions on fouled mem-
branes shown in Figs. 3 and 4, a composite mechanism constituting
cake formation andmembranepore blocking is proposed to explain
the membrane fouled by BSA/dextran binary mixtures with dif-
ferent concentrations, as shown in Fig. 5. In the ﬁltration of pure
BSA, BSA aggregation always occurs in the suspension [17,18].
The BSA aggregates will be retained on the membrane surface to
form a thin but compact cake layer, as shown in Fig. 5(a). The ﬁl-
K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Chemical Engineering Journal 166 (2011) 669–677 673
Fig. 4. The3D reconstructionof CSLM image stacks (10×100×) underCB =1kg/m3,CD =0.5 kg/m3, (a) pureBSA,us =0m/s,P=20kPa, (b) puredextran,us =0m/s,P=20kPa,
(c) mixture, us =0.1m/s, P=20kPa, and (d) mixture, us =0.1m/s, P=100kPa.
Fig. 5. Schematic diagram for the mechanisms of the membrane fouled by
BSA/dextran mixtures with different concentrations. (a) Pure BSA, (b) BSA+dextran
(low concentration), and (c) BSA+dextran (high concentration).
concentration, i.e.,CB =2kg/m3. Comparing thedata shown in Fig. 6,
the ﬁltration ﬂux would be the highest in pure BSA suspension ﬁl-
tration. This is because the ﬁltration resistance is solely due to cake
formation. When dextran molecules exist in the suspension, the
dextran adsorption causes the membrane pore size to reduce as
well as a ﬁltration resistance increase. As a result, the ﬁltration ﬂux
decays quicker at the initial stage and decreases with increasing
dextran concentration. Comparing the data from a solid circle and
square, it is inferred that the lower ﬂux for higher BSA concen-
tration before 1000 s is caused by more BSA aggregate deposition,
while the lower steady ﬂux for higher dextran concentration after
80006000400020000
t (s)
0x10
0
1x10
-4
2x10
-4
3x10
-4
q
  
(m
3
/m
2
. s
)
BSA + Dextran
us = 0.3 m/s, ΔP = 100 kPa
CB = 1 kg/m
3
CB = 1 kg/m
3
, CD = 0.5 kg/m
3
CB = 1 kg/m
3
, CD = 1 kg/m
3
CB = 2 kg/m
3
, CD = 0.5 kg/m
3
Fig. 6. The ﬁltration ﬂux attenuations during cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of
BSA/dextran mixtures with different concentrations.
K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Chemical Engineering Journal 166 (2011) 669–677 675
direction are theoretically proportional to C×qs, and C× k, respec-
tively. In fact, the prediction of the ﬁltration resistance caused by
the concentration polarization layer from operation parameters is
rather difﬁcult. However, it is reasonable to assume that Rcp is in
proportion to the polarized solute concentrations and is a linear
function of C×qs/k for a pure substance. The following empirical
equations can be regressed using the experimental data of cross-
ﬂow microﬁltration of pure BSA and dextran suspensions with
different concentrations (not shown), respectively:
Rcp,B = 8.96 × 109CB · qs/kB (4)
Rcp,D = 8.14 × 1010CD · qs/kD (5)
When ﬁltration is operated in the pressure control region, the
ﬁltration ﬂux linearly increases with increasing ﬁltration pressure.
Thus, the ﬁltration resistance caused by concentration polarization
layer is always proportional to ﬁltration pressure under ﬁxed sus-
pension concentration and cross-ﬂow velocity. This trend is found
in Fig. 8 and just ﬁt with the experimental results of previous stud-
ies, e.g., Cheng et al. [11]. Therefore, the Rcp values for pure BSA
and dextran under a given condition can be estimated using Eqs.
(4) and (5), respectively, once qs is measured in experiment and k
is calculated using Eq. (2).
When two components co-exist in the suspension, the contribu-
tions came from both components should be considered to obtain
the overall Rcp value. The empirical equations obtained from pure
components, Eqs. (4) and (5) are then summed to obtain the Rcp
value in mixture ﬁltration by neglecting the solute interactions.
Fig. 9 shows a plot of the experimentalRcp versus calculatedRcp val-
ues for different suspension concentrations. The cross-ﬂowvelocity
is ﬁxed at 0.3m/s, while the data for a given BSA/dextran composi-
tion are obtained under various ﬁltration pressures. The auxiliary
straight line means agreement between the experimental and cal-
culated values. The deviations between most experimental Rcp and
calculated values are smaller than 20% except for a few data points.
However, this method provides a convenient way to estimate Rcp
for mixtures directly from the operating conditions and solute con-
centrations.
The ﬁltration resistances caused by membrane fouling, Rf,
including cake formation and membrane pore blocking, for dif-
ferent mixed BSA/dextran concentrations under various ﬁltration
pressures are measured and shown in Fig. 10. It can be found that
the Rf values are much higher than the Rcp values, as shown in Fig. 8
under the same conditions. This trend agrees with those in most
0.0x100 4.0x1011 8.0x1011 1.2x1012 1.6x1012 2.0x1012
Rcp (cal) (m
-1
)
0.0x10 0
4.0x1011
8.0x1011
1.2x1012
1.6x1012
2.0x1012
R
c
p
(e
x
p
) 
(m
-1
)
BSA+Dextran, us = 0.3 m/s
CB=1 kg/m
3
, CD=0.5 kg/m
3
CB=1 kg/m
3
, CD=1 kg/m
3
CB=2 kg/m
3
, CD=0.5 kg/m
3
Fig. 9. A plot of experimental Rcp versus calculated Rcp values for different suspen-
sion concentrations.
110100908070605040302010
ΔP (kPa)
0x10
0
2x10
12
4x10
12
6x10
12
8x10
12
R
f  
(m
-1
)
BSA + Dextran, us = 0.3 m/s
CB=1 kg/m
3
, CD=0.5 kg/m
3
CB=1 kg/m
3
, CD=1 kg/m
3
CB=2 kg/m
3
, CD=0.5 kg/m
3
CB=1 kg/m
3
CD=0.5 kg/m
3
Fig. 10. Effects of BSA/dextran concentrations and ﬁltration pressure on the mem-
brane fouling resistance.
previous studies [1,10,14]. The membrane fouling in pure BSA ﬁl-
tration is due mainly to cake formation, while that in pure dextran
ﬁltration is due to sole membrane pore blocking according to the
mechanisms proposed by this study. The Rf value for pure BSA is
therefore the lowest and that for pure dextran is the highest among
the data shown in Fig. 10, and the difference of Rf between twopure
substances increases with increasing ﬁltration pressure. Because
cake formation may more or less prevent the following membrane
pore blocking during BSA/dextran mixture ﬁltration, the Rf values
for mixtures are located between those for two pure substances.
An increase in the BSA or dextran concentration leads to higher Rf
value, but the impact of dextran concentration is more signiﬁcant.
To understand the weights of cake formation and membrane
blocking on fouled membrane ﬁltration resistance in the cross-
ﬂow microﬁltration of BSA/dextran mixtures, the cake properties
in “dead-end” ﬁltration of pure BSA with the same concentra-
tions as this study were measured. The ﬁltration curves were
analyzedusing themethodproposedbyHermia [21] and the results
indicated that membrane fouling was attributed to cake forma-
tion. The measured average speciﬁc cake ﬁltration resistance, ˛av,
and average cake porosity, εav, can be expressed as the following
pressure-dependent power-type empirical equations:
˛av = 6.22 × 1011P0.72 (6)
1 − εav = 0.0012P0.36 (7)
Therefore, the cakemass,wc , undera constantpressureﬁltration
can be estimated from the measured cake ﬁltration resistance, Rc,
because Rc = ˛av × wc .
In a cross-ﬂow ﬁltration, the deposition of BSA aggregates is
restrainedby the tangential shear stress due to the suspensionﬂow.
Because the ﬂuid velocity near the membrane surface is very low,
the tangential drag force exerted on a BSA aggregate staying on the
membrane surface can be estimated using the modiﬁed Stokes law
[22,23], that is,
Ft = 2.176d2p,Bo (8)
wheredp,B is thediameter of BSAaggregate. The shear rate actingon
the membrane surface, o, in a two-parallel-plate cross-ﬂow ﬁlter
can be estimated by [23],
o = 6 usH
(H − L)2
= 6us
H
(when L  H) (9)
K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Chemical Engineering Journal 166 (2011) 669–677 677
where dm,o is the mean pore size of the virgin membrane. There-
fore, the dextran adsorption layer thickness, ı, can be calculated by
(dm,o −dm,b)/2.
Fig. 13 is a plot of ı versus P under various operating condi-
tions and two different dextran concentrations. The trend is similar
to normal adsorption isotherms, in which the adsorption amount
is proportional to the dextran concentration and applied pressure.
This effect is more signiﬁcant under low pressures or with a thin
dextran adsorption layer. Moreover, the data for a given dextran
concentration can be regressed to a unique curve whatever the
cross-ﬂow velocity. This result indicates that the dextran adsorp-
tion in the membrane pores is mainly determined by the dextran
concentration and applied pressure. The empirical relationships
obtained from Fig. 13 provide a way to predict membrane pore size
reduction and membrane internal fouling directly from operating
conditions.
4. Conclusions
The membrane fouling mechanisms in cross-ﬂow microﬁl-
tration of BSA/dextran mixtures were studied. BSA aggregates
deposited on themembrane surface to form a thin cake layer, while
dextran molecules adsorbed in the pores near the membrane sur-
face to narrow the pore size and result in a dominant ﬁltration
resistance. The BSA deposition was mainly determined by the drag
forces exerted on the BSA aggregates. The cake mass increased
linearly with increasing Fn/Ft force ratio. On the other hand, the
dextran adsorption in the membrane pores was increased by the
increases in dextran concentration and applied pressure, which
was similar to most adsorption isotherms. The BSA and dextran
concentration effects on the ﬁltration ﬂux and resistance were also
discussed. The ﬁltration ﬂuxes for BSA/dextran mixtures decreased
with increasing BSAor dextran concentration. However, the impact
of the dextran concentration was more signiﬁcant because the ﬁl-
tration resistance caused by membrane blocking was much higher
than that causedby cake formation. Theﬁltration resistances due to
concentration polarization, cake formation andmembrane internal
fouling could be estimated directly from the operating conditions
using the semi-theoretical methods proposed in this study.
Acknowledgements
The authors wish to express their sincere gratitude to the
National Science Council of the Republic of China for its ﬁnancial
support. The assistance in CSLM measurement by Confocal Micro-
scope Lab, Instrumentation Center, National Taiwan University,
Taiwan is also appreciated.
References
[1] G. Belfort, R.H. Davis, A.L. Zydney, The behavior of suspensions and macro-
molecular solutions in crossﬂow microﬁltration, J. Membr. Sci. 96 (1994)
1–58.
[2] E.M. Tracey, R.H. Davis, Protein fouling of track-etched polycarbonate microﬁl-
tration membranes, J. Colloid Interf. Sci. 167 (1994) 104–116.
[3] W.R.Bowen, J.I. Clavo,A.Hernández, Stepsofmembraneblocking inﬂuxdecline
during protein microﬁltration, J. Membr. Sci. 101 (1995) 153–165.
[4] I.H. Huisman, P. Prádanos, A. Hernández, The effect of protein–protein and
protein–membrane interactions on membrane fouling in ultraﬁltration, J.
Membr. Sci. 179 (1–2) (2000) 79–90.
[5] C. Guëll, R.H. Davis, Membrane fouling during microﬁltration of protein mix-
tures, J. Membr. Sci. 119 (2) (1996) 269–284.
[6] M.Ouammou,N. Tijani, J.I. Calvo, C. Velasco,A.Martín, F.Martínez, F. Tejerina,A.
Hernández, Flux decay in protein microﬁltration through charged membranes
as a function of pH, Colloid Surf. A 298 (3) (2007) 267–273.
[7] E. Iritani, Y.Mukai, T.Murase,Upwarddead-endultraﬁltrationof binaryprotein
mixtures, Sep. Sci. Technol. 30 (3) (1995) 369–382.
[8] M. Balakrishnan, G.P. Agarwal, Protein fractionation in a vortex ﬂow ﬁlter. II.
Separation of simulated mixtures, J. Membr. Sci. 112 (1996) 75–84.
[9] W.F. Blatt, A. Dravid, A.S. Michaels, L.M. Nelsen, Solute polarization and cake
formation in membrane ultraﬁltration, causes, consequences and control tech-
niques, in: J.E. Flinn (Ed.), Membrane Science and Technology, Plenum Press,
New York, USA, 1970, pp. 47–97.
[10] M. Cheryan, Ultraﬁltration and Microﬁltration Handbook, Technomic Publish-
ing Co., Pennsylvania, USA, 1998, pp. 113–130.
[11] T.W. Cheng, H.M. Yeh, C.T. Gau, Resistance analyses for ultraﬁltration in tubular
membrane module, Sep. Sci. Technol. 32 (1997) 2623–2640.
[12] V.Garcia-Molina, S. Esplugas, Th.Wintgens, Th.Melin,Ultraﬁltrationof aqueous
solutions containing dextran, Desalination 188 (2006) 217–227.
[13] A. Vernhet, M. Moutounet, Fouling of organic microﬁltration membranes by
wine constituents: importance, relative impact of wine polysccharides and
polyphenols and incidence of membrane properties, J. Membr. Sci. 201 (1–2)
(2002) 103–122.
[14] K.J. Hwang, P.S. Huang, Cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of dilute macromolecular
suspension, Sep. Purif. Technol. 68 (2009) 328–334.
[15] H. Susanto, H. Arafat, E.M.L. Janssen, M. Ulbricht, Ultraﬁltration of
polysaccharide–proteinmixtures: elucidation of foulingmechanisms and foul-
ing control bymembranesurfacemodiﬁcation, Sep. Purif. Technol. 63 (3) (2008)
558–565.
[16] K.J. Hwang, P.Y. Sz, Filtration characteristics and membrane fouling in cross-
ﬂow microﬁltration of BSA/dextran binary suspension, J. Membr. Sci. 347
(2010) 75–82.
[17] C.C. Ho, A.L. Zydney, A combined pore blockage and cake ﬁltration model for
protein fouling duringmicroﬁltration, J. Colloid Interf. Sci. 232 (2000) 389–399.
[18] J.S. Shiau, C.H. Tang, T.Y. Lin, D.M. Wang, A model for resistance growth during
protein microﬁltration, Sep. Sci. Technol. 38 (2003) 917–932.
[19] R.J. Hunter, Foundations of Colloid Science, vol. I, Oxford University Press, New
York, USA, 1987 (Chap. 2).
[20] R.Kommedal, K.Milferstedt, R. Bakke, E.Morgenroth, Effectsof initialmolecular
weight on removal rate of dextran inbioﬁlms,Water Res. 40 (2006) 1795–1804.
[21] J. Hermia, Constant pressure blocking ﬁltration laws – application to power law
non-Newtonian ﬂuid, Trans. Inst. Chem. Eng. 60 (1982) 183–187.
[22] W.M. Lu, S.C. Ju, Selective particle deposition in cross-ﬂow ﬁltration, Sep. Sci.
Technol. 24 (7–8) (1989) 517–540.
[23] K.J. Hwang, K.P. Lin, Cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of dual-sized submicron parti-
cles, Sep. Sci. Technol. 37 (10) (2002) 2231–2249.
[24] J.D. Sherwood, The force on a sphere pulled away from a permeable half-space,
Physicochem. Hydrodyn. 10 (1988) 3–12.
Although several researchers focused on the ﬁltration of
mono-dispersed microbial suspensions, binary or multi-
component dispersions often occur in biochemical pro-
cesses. For instance, proteins, enzymes, or polysaccharide
are needed to separate from microbial cells in fermentation
products. However, few researchers have paid attention to
the inﬂuence of the other molecules on the ﬁltration per-
formance of microbial suspension. In this kind of ﬁltration,
the packing structure and ﬁltration resistance of cake may
be signiﬁcantly affected by the existence of macromole-
cules. For example, Hung and Liu (11) used a cross-ﬂow
microﬁltration to separate green algae from water. The
unexpected decrease in ﬁltration ﬂux with increasing ﬁl-
tration pressure was attributed to the increase in dissolved
polysaccharide.
In this study, the role of blue dextran on the ‘‘dead-end’’
microﬁltration of yeast cells is studied. The ﬁltration ﬂux,
cake porosity, speciﬁc cake ﬁltration resistance, and dex-
tran rejection under various ﬁltration pressures are mea-
sured and discussed. A cake compression mechanism and
a resistance model are also proposed to explain the packing
structures and the speciﬁc ﬁltration resistance for the
two-component cakes under different pressures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Baker yeast cells purchased from ICN Biomedicals Inc.
in Germany were suspended in de-ionized water and heated
to 80C for 20min for cell de-activity. The suspension was
centrifuged for three times to remove impurities. Blue dex-
tran with a molecular weight of 2,000 kDa, manufactured
by Sigma Co. in USA, was used as a typical sample of
polysaccharide in experiments. Yeast and blue dextran
were added into a 10mM buffer solution prepared by
sodium phosphate (Na2HPO3) and sodium hypophosphite
(NaH2PO2) to prepare a two-component suspension. The
bulk density of yeast cells in such a condition was
1140 kg=m3. The concentrations of yeast and dextran were
1 kg=m3 and 0.1 kg=m3, respectively. The results of a batch
adsorption experiment indicated that less than 5% of blue
dextran adsorbed onto the yeast cell surface in the sus-
pended condition. The yeast sizes in single-(sole yeast)
and two-component (yeast and dextran) suspensions were
measured using HORIBA LA-910 laser particle sizer and
are shown in Fig. 1. The diameter of yeast cells ranged
from 0.9 to 18 mm with a mean value ca 4.6 mm, and no
distinct difference was found in cell size due to the existence
of dextran. The ﬁlter membrane with a mean pore size of
0.1 mm was used in experiments. The membrane was
made of mixed cellulose ester and manufactured by
ADVENTEC Co. in Japan.
‘‘Dead-end’’ microﬁltration experiments were carried
out using a bomb ﬁlter shown in Fig. 2. The diameter of
the ﬁlter chamber was 0.032m; therefore, the ﬁltration area
in the ﬁlter chamber was 8.04 104m2. The suspension
was prepared and well mixed in the ﬁlter. The pH and
temperature of the suspension were kept at 7.0 0.1 and
23 0.5C, respectively. The ﬁltration pressure was sup-
plied by compressed air and adjusted using a regulator.
The increase in ﬁltrate weight was detected by a load cell
and recorded on a personal computer. An oriﬁce plate
was installed in the ﬁlter chamber with a distance of
1mm from the ﬁlter membrane surface. Seventeen small
oriﬁces with a diameter of 3.54 103m were uniformly
distributed on the plate. When the growing cake surface
reached the oriﬁce plate, the tangent slope of the ﬁltration
curve of dt=dv vs. v increased drastically because the
ﬁltration area suddenly decreased to 1.67 104m2
(12,13). Therefore, the average cake porosity could be calcu-
lated using a material balance, while the average speciﬁc cake
ﬁltration resistance was determined by the tangent slope of
FIG. 1. Size distributions of yeast in single- and two-component
suspensions.
FIG. 2. Schematic diagram of constant pressure ‘‘dead-end’’ microﬁltra-
tion system.
ROLE OF POLYSACCHARIDE ON THE FILTRATION OF MICROBIAL CELLS 787
D
o
w
n
lo
ad
ed
 B
y:
 [
Na
ti
on
al
 C
hi
ao
 T
un
g 
Un
iv
er
si
ty
 -
Fu
ll
 L
ib
ra
ry
] 
At
: 
15
:4
7 
27
 M
ar
ch
 2
01
1
because the average speciﬁc cake ﬁltration resistance
drastically increases in the ﬁrst stage of this region due to
the formation of a compact (skin) layer. Since the compact
cake layer depletes most solid compressive pressures (7,8),
the newly-formed cake has a much looser structure. This
fact leads to a decrease in the tangent slope in the second
stage in Region B. After the formation of a compact cake
layer, the newly-formed cake structures become looser and
similar. This induces the average speciﬁc cake ﬁltration
resistance to approach constant and the ﬁltration curve
to restore to a straight line in Region C (4). When the cake
surface reaches the oriﬁce plate installed in the ﬁlter cham-
ber, the tangent slope of the ﬁltration curve suddenly
changes due to the abrupt decrease in ﬁltration area
(12,13), as that shown in Region D. When the ﬁlter cham-
ber is full of cake, the received ﬁltrate volume per unit area
at that time, vf, can be determined in the ﬁgure; and the
average cake porosity can then be estimated by a material
balance. Comparing the curves shown in Fig. 3a, an
increase in ﬁltration pressure leads to a larger vf value
and, of course, to a lower cake porosity. Although the
tangent slope is slightly larger under a lower ﬁltration
pressure, a lower aav value is obtained using Eq. (3). More-
over, the ﬁltration ﬂux increases with increasing ﬁltration
pressure because of the smaller dt=dv values shown in
Fig. 3a.
Figure 4 shows the SEM observation of yeast cake struc-
tures under DP¼ 300 kPa. Figure 4(a) is the top-view, while
Fig. 4(b) shows the side-view of yeast cake near the mem-
brane surface. The shape of yeast cells is spheroidal. The
cells retain their original shape when they have just
deposited on the cake surface, as shown in Fig. 4(a). How-
ever, the cells may deform their shape due to the accumu-
lated solid compressive pressure. The formation of the
compact (skin) layer next to the membrane surface causes
to form a heterogeneous cake, as shown in Fig. 4(b). It is
inferred that a higher solid compressive pressure leads to
not only to a more compact cake structure but also to a
larger contact area between cells.
A comparison of ﬁltration curves of dt=dv vs. v of sole
yeast and yeast=dextran binary suspensions in the early
periods of ﬁltration under various pressures is shown in
Fig. 5. The cake thicknesses could be determined by the
abrupt changes in the tangent slope using a suitable vertical
coordinate scale. The curve trend of sole yeast suspension
has been discussed previously. It can be reasonably
explained by the cake formation and compression. When
blue dextran exists in the suspension, dextran molecules
will co-construct the ﬁlter cake with yeast cells, although
a part of dextran has the opportunity to penetrate through
the cake and membrane into the ﬁltrate. The cake proper-
ties are therefore affected by the existence of dextran. The
curves in Fig. 5 indicate that the dt=dv values signiﬁcantly
increase when dextran exists in the suspension. This reveals
FIG. 4. The observation of yeast cake structures under & P¼300 kPa
using SEM (5k x), (a) the top-view and (b) the side-view near the mem-
brane surface.
FIG. 5. Comparisons of ﬁltration curves of sole yeast and yeast=dextran
binary suspensions under various ﬁltration pressures.
ROLE OF POLYSACCHARIDE ON THE FILTRATION OF MICROBIAL CELLS 789
D
o
w
n
lo
ad
ed
 B
y:
 [
Na
ti
on
al
 C
hi
ao
 T
un
g 
Un
iv
er
si
ty
 -
Fu
ll
 L
ib
ra
ry
] 
At
: 
15
:4
7 
27
 M
ar
ch
 2
01
1
compressive pressure. The residual solid compressive press-
ure is not high enough to cause yeast cells to be further
compressed. The yeast cells thus possibly retain their orig-
inal shape, as shown in Fig. 7(b). In this case, less yeast
cells deposit in the ﬁlter chamber when the cake surface
reaches the installed oriﬁce, and then the / value is lower
compared to those under higher pressures. When the ﬁl-
tration pressure is high, both components in the cake will
be compressed more intensely, as shown in Fig. 7(c). The
ﬁlter cake becomes more compact but more pressure insen-
sitive. It can be reasonably expected that the line slope
shown in Fig. 6 is larger under lower pressure. Comparing
the curves shown in Fig. 6, the line slopes for sole yeast and
binary suspensions are similar under higher pressures. This
implies that the cake compressibility is mainly determined
by the yeast compression under high pressure. It can be
also concluded that in a ﬁltration of binary deformable
components, the cake compressibility is determined by
the higher deformable component under low pressures
while signiﬁcantly dependent on the lower one under high
pressures.
Figure 8 shows the relationships between aav and DP for
sole yeast and binary suspensions just before the growing
cake surfaces reach the oriﬁce plate. Because the ﬁltration
time in this study was long enough for cake and particle
compressions, the data indicate the cake properties at the
pseudo-steady state after major extent of compression.
Comparing the a values of those two single components
used in this study, the average speciﬁc ﬁltration resistance
of dextran (ad) is 4 to 6-fold higher than that of yeast
(ay) under a given ﬁltration pressure; and the larger slope
reveals that the blue dextran cake exhibits a higher
compressibility. Once a small amount of dextran is added
into the yeast suspension, the aav value drastically
increases. However, the pressure relation has little inﬂuence
at the pseudo-steady state after a major extent of com-
pression. This is because the dextran molecules are packed
into the pore space in ﬁlter cake. The ﬁltration resistance
therefore increases. A resistance model is derived for
explaining the aav trend as below.
Since two components coexist in the ﬁlter cake, the cake
ﬁltration resistance is affected by the composition and the
speciﬁc ﬁltration resistances of both components. For a
two-component ﬁlter cake, the average speciﬁc ﬁltration
resistance can be considered as the connection of each
component resistance in parallel because a liquid can ﬂow
through the effective porous space constituted by either
yeast or blue dextran, although most liquid ﬂows along a
lower resistance path. Therefore, aav can be expressed as:
aav ¼ xay þ
ð1 xÞ
ad
 1
¼ ay ad
xad þ ð1 xÞay ð6Þ
where x is the effective volume fraction of yeast in all mate-
rials in a ﬁlter cake excluding ﬂuid, e.g., yeast and dextran
in this study. If xad (1x)ay, especially under higher
pressures where ad ay, Eq. (6) can be simpliﬁed as:
aav ¼ ayx ð7Þ
Since x is always smaller than 1.0, the aav value should be
higher than ay, but their pressure dependences are similar.
Hence, the lines of aav and ay shown in Fig. 8 are parallel to
each other under high ﬁltration pressures. From the data
shown in Fig. 8, the x value under high pressures is ca
0.34. It indicates that blue dextran plays a signiﬁcant role
on the cake structure and occupies a considerable volume
in cake. This is possibly attributed to the cross-linking of
long molecular chains of blue dextran. However, on the
other hand, in the condition of xad(1x)ay under lower
pressures (the x value should be much smaller than 1.0
under a low pressure, similar to the / value shown in
Fig. 6), then it can be inferred that aav ad from Eq. (6).
The average speciﬁc cake ﬁltration resistance is therefore
determined by blue dextran under low ﬁltration pressures.
The dextran rejection coefﬁcient, Rrej, is deﬁned as:
Rrej  1 Cp
Co
ð8Þ
where Cp and Co are the dextran concentrations in the ﬁl-
trate and original suspension, respectively. Therefore, if
the residual liquid in cake is trivial compared to the ﬁltrate
volume, the rejection can be considered as the fraction of
dextran which is captured into the ﬁlter cake during a
FIG. 8. Effects of ﬁltration pressure on the average speciﬁc ﬁltration
resistance of cakes formed by single and binary components.
ROLE OF POLYSACCHARIDE ON THE FILTRATION OF MICROBIAL CELLS 791
D
o
w
n
lo
ad
ed
 B
y:
 [
Na
ti
on
al
 C
hi
ao
 T
un
g 
Un
iv
er
si
ty
 -
Fu
ll
 L
ib
ra
ry
] 
At
: 
15
:4
7 
27
 M
ar
ch
 2
01
1
Sanasundaran, P., ed.; Amer. Inst. Min. Met. Petr. Eng.: New York,
1549–1558.
6. Rushton, A.; Ward, A.S.; Holdich, R.G. (1995) Introduction to
Solid-Liquid Filtration and Separation Technology; Wiley-VCH.
7. Tiller, F.M.;Green,T.C. (1973)The role of porosity in ﬁltration: IX. Skin
effect with highly compressible materials. A.I.Ch.E. J., 19: 1266–1269.
8. Lu, W.M.; Tung, K.L.; Hung, S.M.; Shiau, J.S.; Hwang, K.J. (2001)
Constant pressure ﬁltration of mono-dispersed deformable particle
slurry. Sep. Sci. Technol., 36: 2351–2379.
9. Meeten, G.H. (2000) Septum and ﬁltration properties of rigid and
deformable particle suspensions. Chem. Eng. Sci., 55: 1755–1767.
10. McCarthy, A.A.; Walsh, P.K.; Foley, G. (2002) Characterising the
packing and dead-end ﬁlter cake compressibility of the polymorphic
yeast Kluyveromyces marxianus var. marxianus NRRLy2415. J.
Membr. Sci., 198: 87–94.
11. Hung, M.T.; Liu, J.C. (2006) Microﬁltration for separation of green
algae from water. Colloids Surf., B, 51: 157–164.
12. Mukai, Y.; Iritani, E.; Murase, T. (1997) Effect of protein charge on
cake properties in dead-end ultraﬁltration of protein solutions. J.
Membr. Sci., 137: 271–275.
13. Iritani, E.; Nagaoka, H.; Katagiri, N. (2008) Determination of ﬁl-
tration characteristics of yeast suspension based upon multistage
reduction in cake surface area under step-up pressure conditions.
Sep. Purif. Technol., 63: 379–385.
14. Hwang, K.J.; Huang, P.S. (2009) Cross-FlowMicroﬁltration of Dilute
Macromolecular Suspension. Sep. Purif. Technol., 68: 328–334.
ROLE OF POLYSACCHARIDE ON THE FILTRATION OF MICROBIAL CELLS 793
D
o
w
n
lo
ad
ed
 B
y:
 [
Na
ti
on
al
 C
hi
ao
 T
un
g 
Un
iv
er
si
ty
 -
Fu
ll
 L
ib
ra
ry
] 
At
: 
15
:4
7 
27
 M
ar
ch
 2
01
1
K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Journal of Membrane Science 378 (2011) 272– 279 273
concluded that the protein zeta potential was an important fac-
tor affecting membrane fouling in protein membrane ﬁltration.
Vernhet and Moutounet [6] indicated that polysaccharides were
the major foulants in the cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of red wine.
Membrane fouling occurred at the membrane pore entrances or on
the membrane surface. Garcia-Molina et al. [7] found that a foul-
ing layer was formed in dextran ultraﬁltration. The ﬁltration rate
and dextran rejection increased with increasing transmembrane
pressure. Hwang and Huang [8] recently studied the membrane
fouling mechanism in blue dextran cross-ﬂow microﬁltration. They
concluded that the membrane pore size was reduced by dextran
adsorption on the walls in the membrane pores. An increase in
cross-ﬂow velocity or decrease in transmembrane pressure led to
higher dextran rejection. Several researchers indicated that the ﬁl-
tration ﬂux in protein/polysaccharide mixture microﬁltration was
much lower than that in pure component ﬁltration [9,10].  Susanto
et al. [9] claimed that the structure of the fouled layer produced by
a mixture was more compact than that formed by pure proteins.
Hwang and Sz [10,11] found that membrane fouling was  mainly
due to dextran adsorption onto the membrane pore walls in BSA
dextran/binary suspension cross-ﬂow microﬁltration. They pro-
posed a hydrodynamic model to estimate the mean pore size and
fouled layer depth in the fouled membranes under various operat-
ing conditions. Hwang and Sz [11] indicated that the major ﬁltration
resistances were caused by the deposition of BSA aggregates onto
the membrane surface and the adsorption of dextran molecules
in the membrane pores. The dextran adsorption was  signiﬁcantly
affected by the dextran concentration and transmembrane pres-
sure.
In this study, BSA and dextran were selected as the typi-
cal protein and polysaccharide samples in fermentation broths.
The membrane pore size and operating condition effects on
the membrane fouling, ﬁltration ﬂux, dextran adsorption and
solute rejections in cross-ﬂow microﬁltration were discussed. Two
membranes with different mean pore sizes were used in these
experiments. The ﬁltration resistances caused by membrane foul-
ing, concentration polarization and virgin membrane under various
conditions were also measured and compared.
2. Experimental
BSA manufactured by United State Biochemical Co. in USA (Cat.
No.: 10857) and dextran purchased from Sigma Chemical Co. (Cat.
No.: T2000-D5376) were used in these experiments. The mean
molecular weights of BSA and dextran were 67 and 2000 kDa,
respectively. BSA and dextran were dissolved in a 10 mM  phosphate
buffer solution to prepare suspensions and their concentrations
were 1.0 and 0.5 kg/m3, respectively. The suspension pH was
adjusted at 7.0 by adding 10 mM HCl or NaOH aqueous solution.
The BSA and dextran sizes were measured using Malvern MRK528-
01 Zetasizer Nano System.  The primary BSA molecular size was  8 nm;
however, some aggregates with a size as large as 300 nm existed in
the suspension. The dextran size ranged from 21 to 300 nm with a
mean value of 90 nm.  Two ﬂat-sheet membranes manufactured by
Millipore Co. in USA (Cat. No.: VCWP14250) were used as the ﬁlter
media. Both the membranes were made of mixed cellulose acetate
and were hydrophilic. The two membranes therefore have the same
properties, such as morphology, surface charge, etc., except pore
sizes. The detail properties and SEM for virgin membranes are listed
in Table 1 and shown in Fig. 1 for comparison. The mean pore sizes of
the virgin membranes were reported by Millipore Co. as 0.025 and
0.1 m,  respectively. In this study, the pore sizes on the membrane
surfaces were measured using a Power Image Analysis (PIA) System
before and after experiments. The surface pore size distributions of
virgin membranes are shown in Fig. 2.
Table 1
The properties of two used membranes.
Properties Membrane type
0.025 m MCE
membrane
0.1 m MCE
membrane
Trade namea MF-Millipore MF-Millipore
Filter materiala Mixed cellulose
esters
Mixed cellulose
esters
Refractive indexa 1.5 1.5
Water ﬂow ratea (mL/min cm2) 0.15 1.5
Maximum operating temperaturea (◦C) 75 75
Pore  sizea (m) 0.025 0.1
Surface chargeb (mV) −20.08 −20.42
Wettabilitya Hydrophilic Hydrophilic
Filter codea VSWP VCWP
Filter colora White White
Filter surfacea Plain Plain
Thicknessa (m) 105 105
Porositya (%) 72 74
a Provided by Millipore Co.
b Measured in this study.
Fig. 1. SEM analyses for the virgin membranes, (a) 0.025 m membrane (×50 kX),
(b)  0.1 m membrane (×50 kX).
K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Journal of Membrane Science 378 (2011) 272– 279 275
12080400
ΔP  (kPa)
0
4x1012
8x1012
1.2x1013
R
  (
m
-1
)
CB  = 1.0 kg/m
3 
CD = 0.5 kg/m
3 
 , us = 0.1 m/s
0.025 μm      0.1 μm
Rt
Rf
Rcp
Rm
Fig. 4. Effects of transmembrane pressure on various ﬁltration resistance sources
for  two membranes.
[11], the membrane internal fouling is due mainly to the dextran
adsorption occurring in the membrane pores. Therefore, trans-
membrane pressure is an important factor affecting membrane
fouling. The Rf value is much higher for the membrane with smaller
pores because of more serious pore blocking. Since molecules have
more opportunity to penetrate through larger membrane pores,
the Rf value for the membrane with larger pore size is only 30%
compared to that with smaller pore size under a given operating
condition.
Fig. 6(a) and (b) shows SEM photos of fouled membranes
under us = 0.3 m/s  and P  = 60 kPa at pseudo-steady state. The
membranes are fouled by solute adsorptions onto the membrane
surfaces and the membrane pore walls, resulting in pore size
reduction. Similar to those discussions in the authors’ previous
study [10,11],  a thin fouled layer is formed in the membrane pore
walls near the pore entrances instead of cake formation or com-
plete pore blocking. These microscopic analyses clearly indicate
that the membrane fouling resistance is caused mainly by the
membrane pore size reduction. Therefore, studying how and why
solute molecules adsorb in the membrane pores is an essential
0 40 80 120
ΔP  (kPa)
0
2x1012
4x1012
6x1012
8x1012
1x1013
R
f
(m
-1
)
CB = 1.0 kg/m
3 , CD = 0 .5 k g/m
3
0.025 μm      0.1 μm
us=0.1 m/s
us=0.3 m/s
us=0.5 m/s
Fig. 5. Effects of membrane pore size and operating conditions on the ﬁltration
resistance due to membrane fouling.
Fig. 6. SEM analyses for the fouled membrane under us = 0.3 m/s and P  = 60 kPa at
pseudo-steady states, (a) 0.025 m membrane, (b) 0.1 m membrane.
step in understanding membrane fouling as well as ﬁltration ﬂux.
Although the operations have reached pseudo-steady states, the
ﬁnal mean pore size of 0.1 m membrane (as shown in Fig. 6(b)) is
still greater than that of 0.025 m membrane (as shown in Fig. 6(a)).
This reveals that the amount of membrane fouling depends on the
operating conditions and the membrane pore size.
Because membrane fouling is caused by solute adsorption in
the membrane pores to reduce the pore size, as shown in Fig. 6,
the fouled membrane resistance can be estimated based on the
effective membrane surface porosity [13], i.e., Rf = Rm(εm,o/εm − 1),
where εm,o and εm are the membrane surface porosity of virgin and
fouled membranes, respectively. This approach is reasonable only
when the fouled membrane resistance is dominant and the fouled
layer depth in the membrane pores is almost invariant with oper-
ating conditions. The membrane surface porosity is proportional to
the cross-sectional area of open pores; therefore, the mean pore
size of a fouled membrane, dm,b, can be estimated using experi-
mental resistance data from Rm and Rf as follows:
dm,b =
(
d2m,o
Rm
Rf + Rm
)0.5
=
(
d2m,o
Rm
Rf
)0.5
when Rf is dominant
(2)
where dm,o is the mean pore size of the virgin membrane. Fig. 7
shows the operating condition effects on the mean pore sizes for
two  used membranes at pseudo-steady states. The pressure drop
through the fouled membrane layer, Pm,b, is calculated using the
fraction of the fouled layer to overall ﬁltration resistances, that is
[10],
Pm,b =
Rf
Rt
P  (3)
K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Journal of Membrane Science 378 (2011) 272– 279 277
806040200
ΔPm,b  (kPa)
0
10
20
30
q s
/(ε
m
. d
m
,b
2  
) x
 1
0-
10
 (m
-1
s-
1 )
CB = 1.0 kg/m
3 , CD = 0.5 kg/m
3
0.025 μm      0.1 μm
us=0.1 m/ s
us=0.3 m/ s
us=0.5 m/s
Fig. 9. A plot of qs/(εmd2m,b) versus Pm,b under various operating conditions for
two  membranes.
in Fig. 9, the fouled layer depth increases with increasing cross-ﬂow
velocity. The Lm,b values are calculated as 9.92, 11.25 and 12.50 m
under us = 0.1, 0.3 and 0.5 m/s, respectively, for 0.1 m membrane,
while are 9.19, 10.08 and 10.78 m for a 0.025 m membrane. The
membrane with the larger pore size may  have deeper fouling in the
membrane pores. Note that a higher ﬁltration resistance is possibly
attributed to smaller membrane pore size or a deeper fouled layer.
Because dextran molecules have long and ﬂexible chains, their
adsorption behavior in the membrane pores is signiﬁcantly affected
by the molecular conﬁguration. The molecular behaviors are appro-
priately indicated using the Deborah number. According to the
dumbbell model for macromolecules [17], the Deborah number,
De, can be evaluated using [17,18]
De = k1
qs(1 − εm)
dm,b
= k1De′ (5)
where  is the characteristic relaxation time and k1 is a molecular
characteristic constant. The difference between De and De′ is only a
characteristic constant. Since this study focuses the effects of oper-
ating conditions on the dextran adsorption behavior, De′ is used
as an inﬂuence parameter. In Fig. 10 the dm,b values are plotted
3.532.521.510.50
De'  x 10-2  (s-1)
4x10-8
8x10-8
1.2x10-7
1.6x10-7
2x10-7
d m
,b
(m
)
CB = 1 kg/m
3 , CD = 0.5 kg/ m
3
0.025 μm      0.1 μm
us=0.1 m/s
us=0.3 m/s
us=0.5 m/s
Fig. 10. A plot of dm,b versus De′ under various operating conditions for two mem-
branes.
0.0x100 4.0x10-5 8.0x10-5 1.2x10-4
Rep (-)
0
20
40
60
80
100
R
re
j,D
(%
)
CB =1.0 kg/m
3 , C
 D = 0.5 kg/m
3
 0.025 μm    0.1 μm
us=0.1 m/s
us=0.3 m/s
us=0.5 m/s
Fig. 11. Effects of pore Reynolds number and cross-ﬂow velocity on the dextran
rejection for two used membranes.
against De′, which is deﬁned in Eq. (5),  under various operating
conditions for two used membranes. The data can be regressed
into a unique curve for a given membrane. A critical Deborah num-
ber, De′c = 2.25 × 102, exists. The dm,b value decreases linearly with
increasing De′ when De′ is smaller than the critical value. In such a
small Deborah number region, dextran molecules are in the “coil”
state and the dextran adsorption depends strongly on the ﬁltra-
tion ﬂux [10]. However, the dm,b value becomes constant when
De′ exceeds the critical value. This is attributed to the full stretch
of dextran molecular chains [10]. The same De′c values for both
membranes indicate that this parameter is solely determined by
the dextran physical properties. The relationships between dm,b
and De′, shown in Fig. 10,  depend on the membrane pore size. This
implies that the dextran adsorption is also affected by the other fac-
tors, e.g., ﬂow pattern or dextran concentration in the membrane
pores. These effects will be discussed as below.
Because the fouling in the membrane pores is attributed mainly
to dextran adsorption [11], the dextran penetration may  be inﬂu-
enced by the ﬂow conditions in the membrane pores. To discuss
this effect, the dextran rejection coefﬁcients under three cross-ﬂow
velocities are plotted against the Reynolds number in membrane
pores in Fig. 11.  The dextran rejection decreases with increasing
Rep and approaches constant when Rep exceeds a critical value. The
decrease in dextran rejection is attributed mainly to the increase
in shear stress on the walls and molecular deformation in the
membrane pores. A stretched molecule under higher stress pene-
trates through the membrane pores easier. However, these effects
become trivial when the molecular chains are fully stretched or
the shear stress exceeds a critical value. A higher cross-ﬂow veloc-
ity results in higher dextran rejection because of the sweeping
effect occurring on the membrane surface [10–12].  More dextran
molecules may  be swept away from the membrane surface by the
tangential suspension ﬂow under higher cross-ﬂow velocity, which
reduces polarization and therefore increases the observed rejec-
tion. In other words, dextran molecules have less opportunity to
enter into the membrane pores. Comparing the data for two  mem-
branes, the dextran rejections are low and nearly constant under a
ﬁxed cross-ﬂow velocity when a membrane with larger pore size is
used in ﬁltration. This implies that most dextran molecules entering
into the larger membrane pores may  move freely, the ﬂow pattern
does exert a trivial effect on the molecule penetration.
The BSA fouling pattern is completely different from that of
dextran. BSA aggregates deposit onto the surface of the mixed
K.-J. Hwang, P.-Y. Sz / Journal of Membrane Science 378 (2011) 272– 279 279
4. Conclusions
The membrane pore size and operating condition effects on
the ﬁltration ﬂux, membrane fouling and solute rejection in
BSA/dextran binary suspension cross ﬂow microﬁltration were
studied. The ﬁltration ﬂux increased with increasing cross-ﬂow
velocity and ﬁltration pressure because of less membrane fouling or
higher ﬁltration driving force. The ﬁltration ﬂux for the membrane
with larger pore size was 2–3 times higher than that with smaller
pores although the size ratio was 4:1 at the beginning. The ﬁltra-
tion resistance caused by membrane fouling was much higher than
that caused by concentration polarization or a virgin membrane.
This impact was more signiﬁcant under higher transmembrane
pressures. The ﬁltration resistance caused by membrane fouling
was much higher for the membrane with smaller pores because
of serious pore blocking. The pore size reduction and fouled layer
depth due to dextran adsorption could be estimated using the
Hagen–Poiseuille law. The mean pore size of a fouled membrane
decreased with increasing transmembrane pressure, while the
depth of the adsorption layer increased with increasing cross-
ﬂow velocity. The membrane with the larger pore size had deeper
fouling in the membrane pores. The dextran rejection decreased
with increasing Reynolds number in the membrane pores and
approached constant when the Reynolds number exceeded a crit-
ical value. This was attributed to the increase in the wall shear
stress and molecular deformation in the membrane pores. A higher
cross-ﬂow velocity resulted in a higher dextran rejection because
of the sweeping effect occurring on the membrane surface. The
BSA rejection under various operating conditions could be reason-
ably explained by the membrane sieving effect. The BSA rejection
decreased linearly with increasing pore size in a fouled mem-
brane, with no obvious cross-ﬂow velocity effect on BSA rejection
found. The dextran concentration and Reynolds number effects in
the membrane pores on the dextran adsorption layer thickness
were also discussed. The dextran adsorption was monolayer when
the dextran concentration in the membrane pores was low. The
dextran adsorption layer thickness increased drastically when the
concentration exceeded a critical value. The dextran adsorption
layer thickness could be correlated with the Reynolds number into
a unique function and the ı value increased monotonously with
increasing Rep.
Acknowledgement
The authors wish to express their sincere gratitude to the
National Science Council of the Republic of China for its ﬁnancial
support (Project number: NSC 97-2221-E-032-028-MY3).
Nomenclature
C solute concentration [kg/m3]
Cp solute concentration in membrane pores [kg/m3]
De Deborah number deﬁned in Eq. (5) [–]
De′ modiﬁed Deborah number deﬁned in Eq. (5) [s−1]
dm,o clean membrane pore diameter [m]
dm,b fouled membrane pore diameter [m]
k1 a coefﬁcient deﬁned in Eq. (5) [–]
Lm,b fouled layer depth [m]
q ﬁltration ﬂux [m3/m2 s]
qs pseudo-steady ﬁltration ﬂux [m3/m2 s]
Rep Reynolds number in membrane pores [–]
Rcp ﬁltration resistance due to concentration polariza-
tion layer [m−1]
Rf ﬁltration resistance due to membrane fouling [m−1]
Rm ﬁltration resistance of clean membrane [m−1]
Rrej observed solute rejection coefﬁcient at pseudo-
steady state [–]
Rt total ﬁltration resistance [m−1]
t ﬁltration time [s]
us cross-ﬂow velocity [m/s]
Greek letters
ı thickness of the fouling layer in membrane pores
[m]
P  ﬁltration pressure [Pa]
Pm,b pressure drop through the fouled membrane [Pa]
εm membrane surface porosity [–]
 relaxation time of macromolecules [s]
 ﬁltrate viscosity [kg/s m]
Subscriptions
B BSA
D dextran
References
[1] E.M. Tracey, R.H. Davis, Protein fouling of track-etched polycarbonate microﬁl-
tration membranes, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 167 (1994) 104–116.
[2] W.R. Bowen, J.I. Clavo, A. Hernández, Steps of membrane blocking in ﬂux decline
during protein microﬁltration, J. Membr. Sci. 101 (1995) 153–165.
[3] N. Dizge, G. Soydemir, A. Karagunduz, B. Keskinler, Inﬂuence of type and pore
size of membranes on cross ﬂow microﬁltration of biological suspension, J.
Membr. Sci. 366 (2011) 278–285.
[4] M. Ouammou, N. Tijani, J.I. Calvo, C. Velasco, A. Martín, F. Martínez, F. Tejerina, A.
Hernández, Flux decay in protein microﬁltration through charged membranes
as  a function of pH, Colloids Surf. A 298 (3) (2007) 267–273.
[5] E. Iritani, Y. Mukai, T. Murase, Upward dead-end ultraﬁltration of binary protein
mixtures, Sep. Sci. Technol. 30 (3) (1995) 369–382.
[6] A. Vernhet, M. Moutounet, Fouling of organic microﬁltration membranes by
wine constituents: importance, relative impact of wine polysaccharides and
polyphenols and incidence of membrane properties, J. Membr. Sci. 201 (1–2)
(2002) 103–122.
[7] V. Garcia-Molina, S. Esplugas, Th. Wintgens, Th. Melin, Ultraﬁltration of aqueous
solutions containing dextran, Desalination 188 (2006) 217–227.
[8]  K.J. Hwang, P.S. Huang, Cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of dilute macromolecular
suspension, Sep. Purif. Technol. 68 (2009) 328–334.
[9] H. Susanto, H. Arafat, E.M.L. Janssen, M. Ulbricht, Ultraﬁltration of
polysaccharide–protein mixtures: elucidation of fouling mechanisms and foul-
ing  control by membrane surface modiﬁcation, Sep. Purif. Technol. 63 (3) (2008)
558–565.
[10] K.J. Hwang, P.Y. Sz, Filtration characteristics and membrane fouling in cross-
ﬂow microﬁltration of BSA/dextran binary suspension, J. Membr. Sci. 347
(2010) 75–82.
[11] K.J. Hwang, P.Y. Sz, Membrane fouling mechanism and concentration effect in
cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of BSA/dextran mixtures, Chem. Eng. J. 166 (2011)
669–677.
[12] K.J. Hwang, Y.H. Cheng, K.L. Tung, Modeling of cross-ﬂow microﬁltration of
ﬁne particle/macromolecule binary suspension, J. Chem. Eng. Jpn. 36 (2003)
1488–1497.
[13] W.M.  Lu, K.L. Tung, K.J. Hwang, Effect of woven structure on transient charac-
teristics of cake ﬁltration, Chem. Eng. Sci. 52 (11) (1997) 1743–1756.
[14] R.B. Bird, W.E. Stewart, E.N. Lightfoot, Transport Phenomena, 2nd edition, Wiley
&  Sons, NY, USA, 2002 (Chap. 2).
[15] J. Happel, H. Brenner, Low Reynolds Number Hydrodynamics, Prentice Hall,
Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1965 (Chap. 8).
[16] W.L. McCabe, J.C. Smith, P. Harriott, Unit Operations of Chemical Engineering,
5th edition, McGraw-Hill, NY, USA, 1993 (Chap. 7).
[17] R.G. Larson, Constitutive Equation for Polymer Melts and Solutions, Butteworth,
Boston, USA, 1988 (Chap. 2–11).
[18] S. Flew, R.H.J. Sellin, Non-Newtonian ﬂow in porous media: a laboratory study
of  polyacrylamide solutions, J. Non-Newtonian Fluid Mech. 47 (1993) 169–210.
     
  
2
續之後，領取名牌、議程表及論文專輯等資料，與主辦之九州大學幾位教授寒喧後，隨即
參加開幕式。由會議主席致歡迎詞後，隨即開始第一天的議程。 
本屆會議除了 4 個邀請演講之外，共計發表了論文 62 篇，其中有 10 篇為口頭發表，
其餘為海報展示，計有大約一百多名專家學者參加。 
12 月 3 日仍繼續論文的發表，會後的討論相當熱烈。會議在下午議程結束後正式結束，
經由委員會的討論，下屆會議預計 2012 年在韓國首爾舉行。 
12 月 4 日早上搭乘日航班機自福岡前往仙台，先在仙台市住宿一晚。隔天，12 月 5 日
即前往第二個會議「19th Nisshin Engineering Particle Technology International Seminar」的會
場，Zuiho Hotel。本次會議為「The information Center of Particle Technology, Japan」主辦，
會議主題為Particle Dispersion and Separation。會議持續 3 天，論文全部是口頭發表，每篇發
表時間排定 30 - 40 分鐘。由於與會的學者專家皆為粉粒體技術相關專長，所以討論相當熱
烈。會議在 8 日上午結束。 
在會議結束後，報告人於 12 月 9 日下午搭乘長榮航空公司 BR-117 班機自仙台返回台
北。 
 
 
二、 與會心得 
「程序強化國際研討會」每兩年舉辦一次，已經有多年的歷史。本屆有學者專家約一
百人參加，是該領域之重要交流平台。與傳統的「程序整合」不同，程序強化包含了三個
涵義，即「創新性（Innovative）」、「革命性（Revolutionary）」和「顯著性（Substantial）」，
故程序強化技術主要朝向「微型化」及「多功能化」的方向發展，是未來化學工程與程序
技術重要的一個發展趨勢。本屆會議的論文多著重在「微型化」程序的發展上，例如微型
反應器、微型混合器、微型熱交換器及微型分析器等，可藉由縮小設備體積、減少能源耗
損與提高效率或辨識度，進而導向低成本、高效能、潔淨的生產技術。 
本屆會議的會場位於九州大學的 Ito 校區，為九州大學最新的校區。該校區為開墾山坡
地建設而成，佔地廣闊、建築物寬敞、設備新穎，對學校未來的發展有極大幫助。會場為
 圖 2  海報展示場一隅 
 
 
在仙台舉辦的另一場學術會議，「 19th Nisshin Engineering Particle Technology 
International Seminar」，會議主題為Particle Dispersion and Separation。本次會議因為參加人
數不多，所以全部的論文皆在同一個場地進行口頭發表，不只提供相關領域之專家學者彼
此交換研究心得的機會，對參與人員之思路啟發與未來的研究方向亦相當有幫助。由於與
會的學者專家皆為粉粒體技術相關專長，所以討論相當熱烈，提問也皆能切中核心。其中
有許多學者的研究主題彼此相當接近，故參加本研討會除了可以提升視野，也可以了解相
同領域之研究進度，對研究的啟發更是助益匪淺。 
 
 
三、 建議 
出席國際會議可以擴大與相關領域之學者的接觸，經由面對面的研討，可吸取此領域之
最新資訊，對研究方向亦可有相當程度的啟發，對增進研究的深度與廣度皆有相當大的助益。
此外，參加國際會議並可提昇國家的知名度與研究聲譽，尤其是具有實質交流與促進研究合
作的會議，值得政府繼續鼓勵與資助。 
     
  
4
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/08
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫四：生物反應器產物之薄膜過濾機制與最佳化設計
計畫主持人: 黃國楨
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-032-028-MY3 學門領域: 能源工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達
之成果如辦理學術
活動、獲得獎項、
重要國際合作、研
究成果國際影響力
及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益
事項等，請以文字
敘述填列。) 
本研究以薄膜過濾分離生物反應器之產品，探討掃流速度、過濾壓差、薄膜種類等
操作條件對過濾通量、薄膜結垢、各成分阻擋率的影響，並獲致許多重要的結論。
除了已達成計劃之原訂目標，研究成果目前已有 7篇論文發表於國際期刊，其中有
3篇發表在 SCI(Engineering/Chemical)排名前 5%，有 2篇排名前 10%之期刊。未
來將依據既有基礎持續進行深入研究，以應用至需求日殷之生化分離程序中。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
