2（一） 計畫中文摘要。（五百字以內）
金屬切削液於切削製程中具有降低切削區溫度、潤滑刀具及移除金屬碎屑之功用。於其使
用期間，因微生物極易生長，既破壞其成分且滋生致病菌。前者將導致切削液提早排放之
後續處理相關之環保問題，後者則形成職業安全衛生危害。經研究證實，在金屬切削製程
中，Mycobacteria 是一大威脅。過去十年中，僅美國地區之金屬切削製程中，即有超過 20
起疑因 Mycobacteria 所引起之過敏性肺病（Hypersensitivity Pneumonitis）爆發事件。其中，
一單一菌種，Mycobacterium immunogenum，經鑑定為引起這些爆發事件之最可能禍首。因
其生長慢，傳統之培養法無法於短期內提供可靠數據。其他量化方法，若非所需時間過長
即屬間接式。缺乏一直接快速並準確的量化方法，已阻礙了金屬製程中微生物之有效管理。
近來，因核酸染料與特定抗體之發展，流式細胞儀已成為快速鑑定及量化特定微生物之最
佳選擇之一。就微生物標定而言，奈米免疫磁性粉體（Nanoimmunomagnetic particle, NIMP）
已經被證實可成功取代免疫螢光（Immunofluorescence）檢測法。但是由於 NIMP 之尺寸仍
顯稍大（~100 奈米），容易造成雜訊過高。以量子點（Quantum dots）進行標定，預期可有
效去除雜訊並提高檢測效率。本研究將探討三項假設: (1)量子點可有效去除因 NIMP 與微生
物細胞尺寸相近所引起之雜訊問題；(2)因量子點本身具有螢光，可免除清洗步驟，故可有
效提升回收率及檢測之靈敏度; (3)量子點吸附於微生物表面或進入微生物體內之光譜偏移
不致影響流式細胞儀之有效偵測。
中文關鍵詞: 金屬切削液，生物功能化奈米粉體，量子點，流式細胞儀，結核菌，快速生
物偵測。
（二） 計畫英文摘要。（五百字以內）
Metalworking fluids (MWFs) are used for cooling working zones, lubricating cutting tools, and
removing metal chips in a wide range of modern industrial processes. During their service life,
these fluids are prone to microbial growth, impacting fluid integrity and giving rise to the
emergence of opportunistic pathogens. Whereas the former issue results in premature fluids
discharges and subsequent environmental problems, the latter is linked to occupational health
hazards. In the past decade, in United States alone, more than twenty hypersensitivity
pneumonitis outbreaks in metalworking processes have been linked to mycobacteria. A single
genotype, Mycobacterium immunogenum, has been identified to be the most probable causative
agent. Due to their slow growth rate, culture-based methods cannot provide quantitative
results in reasonable time frame. Other technologies are either still time consuming or indirect.
The lack of a rapid, direct, and accurate microbial detection and enumeration technology has
impaired effective microbial management of MWFs. Recently, due to the advent of
microfluidics and availability of specific antibodies, flow cytometry (FCM) has become one of
the best options for rapid detection of specific bacteria. Nano-immunomagnetic particle
(NIMP) has been successfully shown to be a better approach than traditional
immunofluorescence, which incorporates six rinse cycles and inherently results in low recovery.
However, due to the size of conjugated nanoparticles (~100nm), they may easily interfere with
the detection of labeled microorganism. Without complex statistical data analysis, the noise
cannot be removed. Quantum dots (QD) offer a unique opportunity to minimize this problem
because of their smaller size (~5nm before conjugation and ~40nm after conjugation), more
reliable fluorescence yield, and elimination of rinse cycles. Thus, three hypotheses will be
tested in this proposed study: (1) the smaller size of QDs will result in lower noise than NIMP
approach by using FCM, (2) QDs can effectively increase the final recovery rate due to decrease
or elimination of rinse cycles, and (3) the spectral shift of QDs upon binding on cell surface or
diffusing into the cell will not affect FCM detection.
Keywords: Metalworking fluid, biofunctionalized nanoparticle, quantum dot, flow cytometry,
mycobacteria, rapid biodetection.
4丙、 文獻探討
Mycobacteria are most likely causative agents for human pulmonary disease in metalworkers and
have been found in drinking water distribution systems8-11, water damaged buildings12-14, and
spas15-18 or swimming pools19, cooling tower20, and metalworking fluids21. In an environmental
health perspective, it is imperative to accurately identify and quantify mycobacteria in
environmental samples. However, they are slow growing and traditional culturing methods
usually take days to weeks for identification and quantification. Therefore, they are easily
underestimated or neglected. Furthermore, due to their aggregate-forming characteristics in
environmental samples, without proper pretreatment, accurate and consistent enumeration is
impossible. If they are in complex matrices, such as metalworking fluids or sediments, direct
optical detection is severely impaired22. In the past decade, researchers have modified polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) methodology to become a quantitative method by monitoring the
fluorescent light emitted during the reaction as an indicator of amplicon production after each
PCR cycle instead of at the end of amplification23, 24, or by co-amplifying an internal standard
with the target to compensate for the inherent variability in the reverse transcription and PCR
stages25. The former is referred to as real-time PCR and the latter as competitive PCR.
Real-time PCR has been applied to quantify mycobacteria in American Type Culture Collection
(ATCC) pure culture17, 26, in tissue samples27, in milk 28, 29, in sputum samples30 and also in
metalworking fluids (MWFs). Competitive PCR has been applied to quantify mycobacteria in
sputum samples31 and also in MWF32. Both methods tend to be labor-intensive when being
applied to MWF samples due to a three-hour sample preparation, which includes 3 cycles of
centrifugation to clean up MWF matrices. Lately, flow cytometry (FCM) has been increasingly
applied to rapid detection and enumeration of bacteria due to rapidness and accuracy on detecting
biological particles33, 34. In this study, a new method to detect mycobacteria in metalworking
fluids has been defined by employing flow cytometry, biofunctionalized nanoparticle, probe
sonication, resolving agent, and cluster-analysis aided visualization analysis. Biofunctionalized
nanoparticles, including iron oxide nanopowder and quantum dots, were prepared through
oriented conjugation with a rabbit-anti- mycobacteria polyclonal immunoglobulin G (IgG) onto
the surface of these nanoparticles. Probe sonication was to disperse the cellular aggregates and
resolving agent was selected to reduce the interaction between nucleic-acid dyes and the
emulsion particles in metalworking fluids. Cluster-analysis aided visualization analysis was
developed to analyze the data in a much more efficient and accurate fashion.
丁、 研究方法
Culture and sample preparation: M. immunogenum (ATCC#700506), Pseudomonas aeruginosa
(ATCC#33988), and Citrobacter freundii (ATCC#51597) were obtained from the American Type Culture
Collection (ATCC, Manassas, VA, U.S.A.). M. immunogenum is the most probable causative agent for
hypersensitivity pneumonitis outbreaks in metal workers. The other two bacteria were often isolated
from in-use MWFs. M. immunogenum was inoculated into a Middlebrook 7H9 medium with oleic
acid-albumin-dextrose-catalase enrichment (Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, PA, U.S.A.) and incubated for at
least 59 hours at 30 ºC before test. C. freundii, and P. aeruginosa were incubated in Becton Dickinson
233000 nutrient broth (Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, PA, U.S.A.) for at least 12 hours at 30 ºC before test.
Semisynthetic MWFs were kindly provided by MWF manufacturers. The MWF solutions have a pH
value between 8.8 and 9.1. MWF solutions were sterilized by autoclaving prior to test.
All cell samples were fixed by adding ice-cold formalin before any further pretreatment. In order to
disperse the aggregating cells, all cell samples were exposed to probe sonication22. Detailed procedures
have been previously reported35.
Biofunctionalization of nanoparticles: Twenty five nm diameter magnetite particles were purchased from
Sigma-Aldrich Co. (Cat # 637106, Sigma-Aldrich, U.S.A), respectively. There are two major ways to
conjugate the antibodies onto these nanoparticles. One is random conjugation and the other is oriented
conjugation. After comparison of the final outcomes, the second approach was selected for nanoparticle
bioconjugation. Detailed protocol for oriented conjugation onto iron oxide nanoparticle has been
previously described35.
6Cluster Analysis Aided Visualization Analysis: Due to the disadvantages of traditional visualization
analysis and cluster analysis, a novel FCM data analysis approach was developed and designated as cluster
analysis aided visualization analysis (CAAVA). Detailed description is available elsewhere35.
Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test (K-S Test): To assess whether one cluster in mixed culture sample is similar to
the cluster in pure culture, a nonparametric statistical testing as described by Kolmogorov and Smirnov 40
was chosen. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (K-S test) has been applied to compare the similarity of
histograms from flow type data since the 1970’s 41. In a K-S test, for two sample distributions with m
and n events (or cases) and with cumulative probability functions of F(x) and S(x), respectively, a testing
statistic D can be defined as
D= Max | F(x)–S(x) | --------------(2)
For either sample size m or n is larger than 12 and for two-tail testing, a critical D value can be calculated
by using the following equation 41-43.
Dcrit = )(63.12/ nsD  for=0.01 ---------(3)
where )/()()( mnnmns  .
If the resultant D is greater than this value, the hypothesis H0: “F(x) and S(x) are similar” is rejected. To
examine whether a resultant D is greater than Dcrit, a P-P plot of F(x) and S(x) and the Dcrit/s(n) were used
44. If two histograms exhibit a similar shape, the curve will follow closely a 45 degree slope trend line in
this P-P plot. The cumulative probability curves, F(x) and S(x), can then be drawn on this plot to assess
whether any point is outside of the boundary. To generate P-P plots, a program developed by Deutsch
and Journel 44 was employed.
戊、 結果與討論
The sensitivity and specificity of the above method on rapid detection and quantification of
mycobacteria have been reported35. The average specificity is 97.8%, which is comparable to
the approved methods for identification and quantification of mycobacteria in clinical samples,
which are in clear matrices. The labeling efficiency of NIMP and FAb were 7.24.6% and
16.35.5%; and the specificity 85.06.1% and 88.110.5%, respectively, based on traditional
visualization analysis. Based on CAAVA analysis, the labeling efficiency of NIMP and FAb
increased to 12.41.6% and 20.53.9%; and the specificity to 97.83.2% and 98.52.5%,
respectively35. Therefore, based on the same datasets, by applying different data analysis
protocols, significantly different results can be generated. Therefore, CAAVA appeared to be
superior to the tradition visualization analysis and cluster analysis in terms of rapidness and
resolving powers on data with noisy background. However, no matter which data analysis
approach was undertaken, FAb method exhibit significant higher labeling efficiency.
Comparison of flow cytometers and nanoparticles: In this study, two flow cytometers,
FACSCaliburTM and FC 500, and two different nanoparticles, nanoimmunomagnetic particles
(NIMPs) and biofucntionalized quantum dots (BQDs), were employed. FACSCaliburTM has two
different lasers while FC 500 only has one. However, FC 500 has one more fluorescent light
detector than FACSCaliburTM and they have different detecting wavelengths. Therefore, the
same fluorophore conjugated secondary antibody cannot be used on both flow cytometers.
NIMPs are biofunctionalized iron oxide magnetic nanoparticles which have a diameter of 25 nm
before oriented conjugation with antibody while quantum dots have a diameter between 5 and 15
nm before conjugation. It is estimated that after conjugation the former one had a diameter no
less than 60 nm and the later had a diameter between 35~45 nm. NIMPs need to be bound to
the target cells before a secondary fluorescent antibody was attached to emit fluorescent signal
upon excitation. BQDs are fluorescent semiconducting particles conjugated with primary
antibody. Therefore, they do not need a secondary fluorescent antibody for fluorescence.
NIMPs exhibited light gray color and will precipitate out after sitting for a few days in a
refrigerator. BQDs remained in suspension in the buffers and exhibited a light orange color.
Due to the inherent fluorescent characteristics and smaller size of BQDs, the cells specifically
8(a) (b)
Calibration Curve (FAb)
y = 0.0061x, R2 = 0.9998
0.0E+00
2.0E+04
4.0E+04
6.0E+04
8.0E+04
1.0E+05
1.2E+05
0.0E+00 2.0E+06 4.0E+06 6.0E+06 8.0E+06 1.0E+07 1.2E+07
Prepared cell conc.
C
A
A
V
A
F
C
M
ce
ll
co
n
c.
Calibration Curve (NIMP)
y = 0.0098x, R2 = 0.9965
0.0E+00
2.0E+04
4.0E+04
6.0E+04
8.0E+04
1.0E+05
1.2E+05
0.0E+00 2.0E+06 4.0E+06 6.0E+06 8.0E+06 1.0E+07 1.2E+07
Prepared cell conc.
C
A
A
V
A
F
C
M
ce
ll
co
n
c.
Figure 2. Calibration curves from pure mycobacterium following FAb (a) and following NIMPs
(b).
Preliminary results of biofucntionalized quantum dot: Original quantum dots showed a narrow
peak at 610nm wavelength in spectrometric measurement as shown in Figure 3a. After
bioconjugation, the spectral behavior changed and a peak at around 550nm appeared (see Figure
3b). Theses measurements are based on 488 nm excitation, which is the same as the blue laser
equipped in both cytometers. The intensity difference in fluorescent is due to the loss of some
quantum dots during the conjugation steps and also the final 2.5 folds dilution of the preparation.
It has been report that a “blue shift”phenomenon may occur after conjugation to biological
molecules and being attached onto target cells45 (see Figure 3b). This did not pose significant
difficulty on separating different populations on single color detection in FCM output. For single
color detection, both PicoGreenR and BQD showed satisfactory results (Figure 4 a and b).
However, for dual color approach, the high intensity of PicoGreenR on green fluorescence and
long tail in longer wavelengths may interfere with BQD’s 610 nm wavelength (Figure 3c).
Cells labeled with both fluorophores may still have a dense population in a side scatter light
versus green fluorescence dot plot but the population of QBD labeled cells disappeared from a
side scatter light versus orange fluorescence dot plot. This is because QBD provided a lower
fluorescence than PicoGreenR and the necessary compensation setting to prevent the PicoGreenR
overlapping can easily cancel the fluorescence from BQD labeled population. Currently, the best
titer of PicoGreenR is under investigation.
(a) (b) (c)
0
11
5
10
500 700550 600 650
Int.
Wavelength [nm]
0
2.4
1
2
500 700550 600 650
Int.
Wavelength [nm]
0
9
2
4
6
8
500 700550 600 650
Int.
Wavelength [nm]
Figure 3. Spectral behavior of quantum dots before conjugation (a), after bioconjugation (b), and
cell being stained by both PicoGreen and BQDs (c).
Nevertheless, the preliminary result on single color staining of mycobacteria with BQD was still
very encouraging because the successfully stained cell formed a very tight cluster on dot plots
(Figure 4). Comparing this result with the output by following FAb protocol using
FACSCaliburTM, it was much better and may give a much higher labeling efficiency, which is a
ratio of successfully labeled target cells over the total target cells in the samples (Figure 4). FAb
showed higher average light intensity on red fluorescence than NIMP labeled cells in previous
10
biological implication and application of nanotechnology on environments and dioxin-related
studies. This research has also prompted the PI open a new course in undergraduate level,
Nanotechnology and Environmental Protection, in the Department of Environmental Engineering
in this semester to prepare environmental engineering students and other students in the area of
environmental nanotechnology as early as possible.
Domestic and international collaborations have been established through this research. Due the
excellence of my research and outreach via this project, my personal formal academic advisor,
Prof. Peter Adriaens in the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, came to visit National Chung
Hsing University in May, 2007 and will pay his second visit in the coming December due to the
excellent results of my research. Cross-school collaboration has also been achieved in National
Chung Hsing University. Now, the PI has strong ties with Prof. Ching-Chou Wu (農資學院生
機系吳靜宙教授), Prof. Yao-Tung Lin (農資學院土環系林耀東教授)、Prof. Chi-Mei Lee (工學
院環工系李季眉教授)、Prof. Chien-Chung Jeng (理學院物理系鄭建宗教授) and Prof.
Po-Chiung Chang (獸醫學院張伯俊教授).
To sum up, the overall performance of this project is successful and fruitful. The growth of the
application of nanotechnology to environmental engineering is still in its beginning and at a very
fast pace in the world. Continual financial support to this type of research is imperative and
necessary.
參考資料
1. Morton, G., Problems of biofilms in industrial water and processes. In Industrial Biofouling,
Walker, J., Surman, S., Jass, J. , Ed. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.: West Sussex, U.K. , 2000; pp
77-102.
2. McCoy, J. S., Introduction: tracing the historical development of metalworking fluids. . In
Metalworking Fluids., Byers, J. M., Ed. Marcel Dekker, Inc., : New York, NY., 1994; pp
1-24.
3. ILMA, The Independent Lubricant Manufacturers Association Report. Lubricants World
2000, (November Issue), 10.
4. Skerlos, S. J.; Adriaens, P.; Hayes, K.; Rihana, A.; Kurabayashi, K.; Takayama, S.;
Zimmerman, J.; Zhao, F. In Challenges to achieving sustainable aqueous systems: A case
study in metalworking fluids, In Proceedings of Second International Symposium on
Environmentally Conscious Design and Inverse Manufacturing, Tokyo, Japan, 2001; Tokyo,
Japan, 2001.
5. Center, I. W. R. Cutting fluid management for small machining operations–a practical
pollution prevention guide.
6. Rossmoore, H. W., Microbiology of metalworking fluids: deterioration, disease, and disposal.
Lubrication Engineering 1995, 51, 113-118.
7. Childers, J. C., The chemistry of metalworking fluids. In Metalworking Fluids, First ed.;
Byers, J. P., Ed. Marcel Dekker, Inc.: New York, 1994; pp 165-189.
8. Tsitko, I.; Rahkila, R.; Priha, O.; Ali-Vehmas, T.; Terefework, Z.; Soini, H.;
Salkinoja-Salonen, M. S., Isolation and automated ribotyping of Mycobacterium lentiflavum
from drinking water distribution system and clinical specimens. FEMS Microbiology Letters
2006, 256, (2), 236-243.
9. Vacrewijck, M. J. M.; Huys, G.; Palomino, J. C.; Swings, J.; Portaels, F., Mycobacteria in
drinking water distribution systems: ecology and significance for human health. Fems
Microbiology Reviews 2005, 29, (5), 911-934.
10. Torvinen, E.; Suomalainen, S.; Lehtola, M. J.; Miettinen, I. T.; Zacheus, O.; Paulin, L.; Katila,
M. L.; Martikainen, P. J., Mycobacteria in water and loose deposits of drinking water
distribution systems in Finland. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 2004, 70, (4),
