with the digital camera can be stored, browsed and shared. However, it remains problematic whether 
these digital devices meet the user's requirements for using photos at home. In order to find new 
directions for future digital photo applications, uncovering the users’ needs on “photo usage” 
become the key for digital photo industry. By “photo usage” in this research, it means a set of 
activities consisting of the technologies, photos, the photos as symbols, and the social aspects of 
photo circulation. 
2. Objective 
This research aims to explore the photo usage experience among the family members. One of the 
objectives is to understand family members’ photo-related behaviors that take place at home in their 
daily life, such as taking, managing, browsing, sharing and displaying photos. In addition, this study 
is intent to reveal the important characteristics of photo usage experiences, including the 
relationships between family members and photos, the features of home photo usage, and the 
influences of digital photo technology on home photo usage. To ground all the research findings to a 
vivid conclusion, this study also plans to establish the meaning of photos at home to family members, 
and point out the directions for how the future digital photo technologies may further enhance 
people’s photo usage experience at home. 
3. Method 
According to Hugh Beyer and Karen Holtzblatt's [2] definition, Contextual Inquiry is a field 
data-gathering technique that studies a few carefully selected individuals in depth to arrive at a fuller 
understanding of the work practice across all customers. Through inquiry and interpretation, it 
reveals commonalties across a system's customer base. 
Contextual Inquiry is originated from ethnography, which was originally a research method used 
in anthropology. In the Contextual Inquiries, researchers observe users’ activities in the real 
environment they live in or work in to obtain information about the way they live or work. 
Contextual Inquiry researchers not only observe people’s activities in the real context, but also 
conduct in-field interview with the users. During the interview, researchers and users discuss about 
users’ activities, their motives of these activities, the problems they encounter, and how they deal 
with the problems. The interview proceeds in an in-depth semi-structured way. There is a scheme for 
the interviewer, but no word-by-word questions to follow. The whole inquiry is a process for the 
researchers and users to explore users’ activity collectively. Through the process of Contextual 
Inquiry, researchers accumulate fuller understandings about the research issues, and keep asking 
further questions to be answered in the next inquiry.  
  Each interview in this research lasted about two hours. The interviews were taped, and photos 
of their cameras and other photo-related devices, places they keep their photos, their label and 
annotation on their photo, the photos they displayed in their home and every photo they mentioned 
were also taken during the interview for the researchers to analyze. 
4. Findings 
In this section, findings that cover several elements of photo usage at home, such as people, 
family context, activities, media, and technologies, are summarized from the interview transcripts. 
The findings are coded into several themes and presented under these themes for designers of digital 
photo devices to know the characteristics of home photo usage clearly and well. Three main themes 
in this chapter are: photo-related activities, photo usage in different family life stage, and differences 
good management are not attractive. People are more willing to flip photos arranged orderly in the 
photo albums. Photos with well annotations are even more interesting to viewers.  
4.1.4 Photo Sharing 
People are interested in the photos that they are in. After people taking photos together at parties 
or tours, the one who took the photos share those photos with people who are in the photos. If they 
like those photos, the photographer will print a copy and mail to them or transmit the digital files to 
them. Besides sharing photos with the ones who are in the photos, people like to share photos of 
beautiful scenery on their trip with their family and friends. Old photos are shared when friends of 
the old days who come to visit. Some people like to share interesting photos with others who have 
common interests on the topic of the photos.  
People share photos of daily life experiences with their distant family members and friends to ease 
their yearning for them. However, young people are used to share photos in digital form through the 
Internet while middle-aged people are used to browse printed ones. Therefore, parents who are 
unfamiliar with computer operation could hardly see photos from their children not at home.  
4.1.5 Photo Display 
A few types of photos meaningful to a family are commonly displayed at home: first, family 
photos are taken on important days for the family such as wedding anniversaries and birthdays; 
second, photos which represent each period of the family and reflect the changes of the family such 
as wedding photos, children's photos in their early childhood, and photos of children's  each 
graduation ceremony; third, the achievements of family members, for example, photos of a member 
in the family winning a prize or standing on the top of high mountains; and fourth, photos of 
deceased family members. Most families like to display these photos in places they usually stay or 
pass through such as the living room and the hallway.  
On the one hand, People display photos in order to see the photos and the people in the photos 
more often; on the other hand, the display of family photos would leave an impression of a happy 
family to relatives and friends come to visit. The displayed photos are usually framed and not only 
the photos in the frames are rarely replaced but the frames are rarely moved. 
4.2 Photo Usage in Different Family Life Stages 
The meaning of photos at home is convertible. It changes with different family life stages. 
Considering the composition of families in Taiwan and traditional Chinese culture, Hsie (1989) 
divides family life into seven stages according with the growth of the first and the youngest child in 
the family: first, family of married couple (from the wedding of the couple to the birth of their first 
child); second, family with pre-school children (from the birth of the first child to his school age); 
third, family with school-age children (from age six to thirteen of the first child); forth, family with 
teenagers (from age thirteen to twenty of the first child); fifth, family with launching children (from 
the first child come of age to the wedding of the youngest child); sixth, family of middle-aged 
parents (from the wedding of the youngest child to the death of one of the couple); seventh, family 
of aging family members (from the death of one of the couple to the death of another one of the 
couple). The finding of photo usage in different family life stage is described on the basis of these 
family stages. 
4.2.1 Family of Married Couple 
The wedding photos are the first meaningful photos of the family. Before the wedding ceremony, 
They often take photos together during their activities and share photos with each other. However, 
they rarely share photos with their distant parents. After children leave home, parents also have more 
time for activities they are interested in, such as traveling. The subject of the photos they take 
changes from family activities to their own activities. Only on important holidays such as Father's 
Day and Mother’s Day, family members have reunion at home and take photos together. 
4.2.5 Family of Middle-aged and Aging Parents 
After graduation from school, children go to work. Being a freshman in the company, they are too 
busy at work to take and manage photos. But after a few years of work, when they have stable 
income and enough money on deposit, they go travel. Most of the photos in this period of their life 
are photos of touring. They shared these photos of beautiful sceneries and different cultures with 
their colleagues after their journey.  
One day, when children get married, the parents give them their own photo albums as presents. 
These photo albums of the children are created with well annotations since their birth by their 
parents. Relatively, after parents passed away, children start to put old family photos together into a 
photo album as a family history to be an heirloom. 
4.3 Differences between Conventional and Digital Photo Usage 
There are differences in people’s attitude and usages between conventional and digital photos. 
Understanding these differences is helpful to the development of digital photo devices which fit in 
with people’s existing photo usage habits and enhance their photo usage with digital technologies at 
the same time. Through the inquiries in this research, these differences between conventional and 
digital photo usages are described as follows.  
4.3.1 Digital Photography vs. Conventional Photography 
Because the memory cards in the digital cameras have great capacity for hundreds of digital 
photos and are rewritable and conventional cameras can only carry one film for merely 36 photos a 
time, thus, people take photos more seriously with conventional cameras than with digital ones. 
Taking photos with conventional camera, the shutter should be pressed after carefully framing the 
scene. In contrast, taking photos with a digital camera is more careless.  
Despite the popularity of digital cameras, some middle-aged people are still used to take photos 
with simple conventional Instamatic (point and shoot camera). They are unfamiliar with innumerable 
functions of digital devices and afraid of causing errors in operation. Thus, they reject to use digital 
cameras and even give up taking any photo on their trip. 
Besides digital camera, some other devices, such as cell phones, now also include the function of 
digital photography. The prices of these camera phones are still too expensive for most people. Most 
informants complained about the small size screen and the low quality phones which are not good 
enough for making prints. For the elderly, it is hard to see things clearly through the small size 
screens on the camera phones. However, the small size and light weight of camera phones are still 
commended by camera phone users. In some situation, camera phone takes advantage of its mobility. 
For example, when camera phone users walk on the road without their digital cameras and see 
something interesting accidentally, they can take photos with their camera phones. Camera phones 
enable people to capture more interesting moment in time in their daily life than before. 
4.3.2 Immaterial Photos vs. Material Photos 
Most young people who are familiar with using computers and digitize data do not print their 
are enthusiastic about renaming and annotating the photos in their online photo albums in an 
interesting way when they want to share these photos with others. With these entertaining 
annotations, the photos become more interesting for the viewers. However, quite a few people 
neither add annotations nor carefully pick photos for their online photo albums. 
5. Design Implications 
After the discussion about the meaning of photos in domestic sphere and the benefits and 
breakdowns of present artifacts supporting photo usage at home, the implications for future device 
and service design of photo usage are delivered in this chapter. The purpose of these implications is 
not proposing concrete design concepts, albeit it is definitely possible; instead it looks at some rather 
broader trends in the way that people engage with existing technologies and the importance of their 
domestic space and social networks to the way people will engage with future technologies aimed at 
photo-related service and products in domestic sphere. 
5.1 Automatic Photo Management  
Most people are too busy at work to spend time on photo management in their daily life. 
Therefore, some them do not organize their digital photos chronologically and systematically but 
only shove the photos in the “folders”. However, the neglect of photo management would cause 
confusion when viewing photos several years later. It shows in the studies that good photo 
management helps the preserving of valuable memories. "Automatic Photo Management", for 
example, provides the opportunities to help family members categorize their digital photos and 
arrange the photo sets chronologically. It could be software installed in the computers or online 
service that reads the metadata of digital photos and manages photos according to these metadata 
automatically. With "Automatic Photo Management", people who do not have time to manage their 
photos or who are unfamiliar with operating computers would not have to be worried about 
managing their photos.  
5.2 Bridge between Printed Photos and Digital Photos 
Photo sharing helps separate family members participate in each other’s life and ease the yearning 
for each other. However, there is a big gulf of photo sharing between generations. Most young 
people are used to share photos in digital form through the Internet while their middle-aged parents, 
who are unfamiliar with the use of computer, prefer viewing and sharing printed photos. Thus, there 
should be a transit mechanism between printed photos and digital photos that bridge the gulf of 
photo sharing between family members of different generation. For instance, "Photo Scanner" can 
help middle-aged parents scan their conventional photos easily and transmit the transferred digital 
photos into personal computers or online photo albums through some software kits. "Tangible 
Digital Photos" are tangible displays of digital photos. Being made of electronic paper, it 
materializes digital photos as rewritable photo cards. Through the transformation, digital photos can 
be passed around for perusal by family members with clumsy computer skills. 
5.3 Personal/Family History Creation 
Photo collections are like epitome of a family that reflects the changes of family members and 
home environment. People record significant family events in detail with photos and do not want to 
leave out any important moment. Most parents take photos to record stages in their babies' growth. 
The idea of "Baby's Diary" is a photo album for recording babies' growth with pre-planned columns 
for each stage of babies' growth, such as the birth, first stand, first birthday, etc. Parents can fill 
