2in cellular deployments [1]. It will make a good
compromise between the high data rate in
wireless local area networks and the high
mobility in cellular systems. IEEE802.16e is
expected to provide wireless data services over a
long distance in a variety of ways, from
point-to-point links to full mobile cellular type
access. IEEE 802.16e depends heavily on two
important technologies: handoff procedure and
sleep mode operation. The handoff procedure is
utilized to support mobility, whereas the sleep
mode operation is for saving power consumption
of a mobile subscriber station (MSS) in mobile
environments in order to extend battery’s
lifetime.
The sleep mode operation is one of the most
important features for extend MSS’s battery
lifetime. In general, the MSS transmits and
receives the packets with normal mode from/to
the anchor base station (BS). When the downlink
(DL) traffic load from BS to MSS is light and
there is no packet destined for a particular MSS,
that MSS may enter the sleep mode to reduce the
power consumption. In the sleep mode, the MSS
cannot receive any packet, because the MSS
turns off most of its circuits in order to reduce
the entire power consumption. Furthermore, in
the sleep mode, the MSS initially sleeps for an
amount of time, called initial sleep window size,
and then wake up for a certain interval, called
listening window, in order to listen whether the
BS has any buffered packets destined for itself. If
there is no such packet, the MSS will adjust the
sleep window size and return to the sleep mode
again. The sleep-and-wakeup process repeats
itself. When the adjusted sleep window size
reach the maximum sleep window size, the sleep
mode will not increase the sleep window size
any further. Furthermore, the rules by which the
sleep window size is adjusted may change with
data services or connections. Under the 802.16e
sleep mode operation, the power saving class is
define as a group of connections which require
common properties for the sleep mode operation.
Basically, services are divided into three types of
power saving classes which have different
parameters and properties. Power saving class I
is recommended for best-effort, non-real-time
variable data rate services. Power saving class II
is recommended for real-time variable data rate
unsolicited grant service. Power saving class III
is recommended for management operation and
multicast connections. Many researchers
evaluate the performances of sleep mode
operation which exponentially increases the
sleep window size. However, the sleep window
size should depend on the duration that MSS
stays in sleep state. On one hand, in sleep mode,
the downlink traffic is buffered in the BS, which
results in transmission delay because the BS has
to wait for the MSS to wake up. On the other
hand, the sleep mode operation is effective in
saving power. Thus, the packet delay and power
consumption have a tradeoff relationship, which
will be explained and exploited in later chapters.
Furthermore, if the MSS has packets to send for
uplink (UL) transmissions, the sleeping MSS can
wake up prematurely. Because the MSS has no
allocated bandwidth for uplink transmission, the
MSS shall issue a bandwidth request message
through a bandwidth request contention interval,
and then the MSS can transmit its pending
packets upon bandwidth allocation by its BS.
In recent years, there are many studies
focused on the sleep mode operation of IEEE
802.16e [4]-[6]. First, most of sleep mode
studies take account of sleep states only [5]-[6].
In [4], the semi-Markov chain is employed to
analyze the performance of IEEE 802.16e in
terms of average packet delay and power
consumption, where not only sleep states but
also awake and idle states are taken into account.
Although the analysis of [4] includes both awake
states and idle states, uplink traffic is not taken
into account. However, the uplink traffic does
affect the performance of sleep mode, since the
sleep mode will be interrupted upon uplink
packet arrival. In this study, we consider not only
both the downlink traffic and uplink traffic but
also awake and idle states. In addition, it is easy
to know that packet delay and power
consumption has a trade-off relationship. In
order to reduce the transmit delay of packets in
the buffer, instead of exponentially increasing
sleep window size, we propose to linearly
increase it. Although this LI (linear increase)
scheme can reduce the packets delay, the power
consumption is increased accordingly. When the
4WLAN are adopted [3]. As in [3], we assume the
power consumption of a frame time is 50mW in
sleep state, and 170mW in listening state, i.e.,
the consumed power in listen state is about three
times that in sleep state. Hence, for a fixed
length of entire sleep time, we can decrease the
total power consumption by reducing the number
of listening windows as many as possible.
At the end of the current sleep window, the
MSS listens to a MOB-TRF-IND message which
indicates whether there is any buffered downlink
packet destined for the MSS during the listening
window, or uplink packets arriving during sleep
window. It is noted that the uplink traffic can
interrupt the sleep window immediately, but
downlink traffic can’t. Considering the fact that
the MSS almost always stays in sleep mode
when DL load is light, the length of MSS’s sleep
time is strongly related to the interarrival time of
downlink traffic.
For the above reasons, we propose a scheme
to adjust the initial sleep window size based
on D , the arrival rate of the downlink traffic.
3.2 The Analytical Model
We assume the downlink packets arrive at
the BS buffer from a single source according to a
Poisson process of rate D (packets/s). A single
packet is served in one MAC frame duration, i.e.,
the packet service time is equals to one MAC
frame. The uplink packets arrive at the MSS
buffer according to a Poisson process of rate
U (packets/s).
The state of an IEEE 802.16e MSS
supporting the sleep mode operation is modeled
as a semi-Markov chain as in [4]. Basically, the
semi-Markov chain involves four kinds of state,
awake, idle, sleep, and listening states, where
each state represents the state of the
corresponding MSS. The awake, idle, sleep, and
listening states are denoted by A(*), I(*), S(*),
and L(*), respectively. More specifically, A(i)
indicates that the MSS is in awake state and
there are i pending packets at the BS waiting for
service. I(i) indicates that the MSS is in idle state
and no packets have been received for i
consecutive MAC frames. S(j) indicates that the
MSS is in sleep state and has returned to sleep
state for j consecutive times, whose sleep
window size can represent by )( jTS . L(j)
indicates that the MSS is in listening state and is
in the jth sleep window’s listening window.
The listening window size is fixed, which is
equal to one MAC frame. The sleep window size
)( jTS depends on the rules for increasing sleep
window size.
An example state transition diagram is
shown in the following figure, where the
following assumptions are made:
(1) The buffer size N of the serving BS is set to
be 3. Therefore, the number of buffered
packets is less than three in serving BS.
Aside from awake state, the maximum
number of buffered packets can be three.
(2) An idle frame threshold Q is set to be 3 MAC
frames. The idle frame threshold is strongly
related to the sleep mode, since it decides
how often an MSS enters sleep mode. The
MSS enters the sleep mode often with a
small threshold; even when the DL load isn’t
light. On the other hand, the MSS seldom
enters the sleep mode with a large threshold.
(3) The maximum sleep window size is TS (M)
with M=2. Once the sleep window size
reaches the maximum sleep window size, the
sleep window size remains to be the
maximum sleep window size even if the
MSS can go back to sleep mode more than 2
consecutive times.
3.2.1 Packet Delay
The packet delay in this model may consist of
both frame delay and queueing delay [4]. The
frame delay is caused by time slot operation of
6respectively. In this scenario, U is not fixed,
but increases as D increases. When U
increases, the influence of U on sleep window
becomes greater. However, because D = U × 2,
the influence is limited. The trends of different
performance measures are similar to those of the
first scenario.
Third, consider the third scenario with
D =10 (packets/s) and U =0.1~10 (packets/s).
It can be observed that the packet delay
decreases as U increases. It is because the
influence of UL on sleep window increases as
U increases. In other words, the sleep window
is easily interrupted when U is larger, i.e., the
total sleep time is shortened. Due to the tradeoff
relationship, as expected, the power consumption
increases as U increases. Because of the
influence of UL on sleep window, the gap
between total sleep time and the total listening
time has shrunk, i.e., the total sleep time
decreases as U increases.
3.3.3 Linear Increase Sleep Scheme
The performance measures of interest for
linear increase sleep scheme under different
traffic scenarios are studied, where both
analytical and simulation results are shown. It
can be observed that the analytical results are in
reasonable agreement with simulation results.
The difference between analytical and simulation
results may be caused by the assumptions made
in the analytical model.
The trends of different performance measures
are mostly similar to those of binary exponential
sleep scheme. In terms of packet delay, the linear
increase sleep scheme is better than binary
exponential sleep scheme, since the sleep
window increases slowly as the number of going
back to sleep increases in linear increase sleep
scheme. That is to say, the total sleep time with
linear increase sleep scheme is shorter than that
with the binary exponential sleep scheme,
especially in light DL load. The better delay
performance in light DL load is due to the fact
that sleep scheme only affects sleep mode and
the entire packet delay is mainly sleep packet
delay in light DL load.
3.3.4 Adaptive Initial Sleep Window Based on
DL Traffic Sleep Scheme
The performance measures of interest for
adaptive initial sleep window based on D
scheme under different traffic scenarios are
studied, where both analytical and simulation
results are shown. It can be observed that the
analytical results are in reasonable agreement
with simulation results.
The trends of different performance measures
are mostly similar to those of binary exponential
sleep scheme. In terms of power consumption,
adaptive initial sleep window based on D
scheme is better than binary exponential sleep
scheme, since the initial sleep window is larger
than that for binary exponential sleep scheme.
That is to say, the total sleep time with adaptive
initial sleep window based on D scheme is
greater than that with the binary exponential
sleep scheme, especially in light DL load. The
worse delay performance in light DL load is due
to the fact that sleep scheme only affects sleep
mode and the entire packet delay is mainly sleep
packet delay in light DL load.
3.3.5 Comparison of Different Sleep Schemes
The parameters used are N=20, Q=2, Ti=10ms
(for binary exponential increase sleep scheme
and linear increase scheme), TF=2560ms (for
binary exponential increase sleep scheme and
linear increase scheme), D =0.1~50 and
U =0.1(packets/s).
In terms of packet delay, for D <10, linear
increase sleep scheme achieves the best
performance, binary exponential increase sleep
scheme achieves the second best performance,
and adaptive initial sleep window based on DL
traffic sleep scheme achieves the worst
performance. For D ≥10, the performances of
the three schemes are almost the same. In terms
of power consumption, for D <5, the
performances of the three schemes are almost the
same.
In terms of power consumption for D ≥5,
adaptive initial sleep window based on DL traffic
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
在本研究中, 為了減輕 IEEE 802.16e 標準所定義之休眠方法之缺點，我們提出二種改良
之休眠方法，亦即，線性增加休眠方法，與基於下鏈流量之適應型初始視窗大小休眠方法。
透過與 IEEE 802.16e 標準所定義之休眠方法之比較，此二種休眠方法之優點與缺點受到
展示。在下鏈流量為輕時，線性增加休眠方法達成最小之封包延遲，然而在下鏈流量為重
時，線性增加休眠方法也會導致最差之功率消耗。另一方面，在下鏈流量為輕時，基於下
鏈流量之適應型初始視窗大小休眠方法達成最大之封包延遲，然而在下鏈流量為重時，基
於下鏈流量之適應型初始視窗大小休眠方法也會導致最佳之功率消耗。 
我們推導相關之數學解析模型以計算感興趣之效能量度。我們感興趣之效能量度包含封包
延遲與功率消耗。我們也利用電腦模擬結果來驗證數學解析結果之準確度。電腦模擬程式
是我們以 C語言自行撰寫。對於我們所探討之各種情境，數學解析結果皆與電腦模擬結果
相當接近。 
在行動通訊中如何達成最佳之封包延遲與功率消耗之折衷不僅是學界也是業界一直重視
之議題，我們提出之二休眠方法應可進一步受到研究以達成更佳之封包延遲與功率消耗折
衷。 
 
