1I. Introduction
Many advantages have been obtained by feeding a patch element through an aperture in its
ground plane. The feeding mechanism of an aperture coupled patch antenna has been a microstrip
feedline located under the aperture [1-2]. Recently, the coplanar waveguide (CPW) feedline is an
alternative solution for the feed of an aperture coupled patch antenna, which has many
advantages, that is including no soldering points, better impedance matching, lower radiation
losses, and easier integration of active devices.
In CPW-fed slot-coupled microstrip antennas, several shapes of the excitation slot have
already been proposed in the open literature [3-5]: inductively coupled slot, capacitively coupled
slot and coupled slot-loop. Among these coupling mechanisms, the impedance matching of the
inductively coupled and slot-loop coupled antennas are much more sensitive to the slot dimension.
Thus, these cases of antennas are not easy matching of impedance. In this article, we present the
method of improving the impedance matching for slot-loop coupled microstrip antennas. We will
introduce a tuning-stub on CPW feedline [6]. By adjusting the length of the tuning-stub, the
impedance matching of this slot-loop coupled microstrip antenna can be obtained easily.
The larger of the coupling slot-ring size, the lower of the resonant frequency of the patch.
However, the back-radiation is also increased. For decreasing the back-radiation, the reflector
will be used in this design. The reflector will produce a field that cancels the rear directed
radiation of the resonant slot-ring [7-8]. We will combine the characteristics of the lowering
frequency and decreasing back-radiation. A compact, unidirectional radiation slot-ring coupled
microstrip antenna will be produced.
In some applications for wireless system, an antenna with omnidirectional radiation pattern
in a horizontal plane is required. Many antenna designs are presented for such a system. From [9],
an omnidirectional pattern can be obtained by cutting the widths of the substrate and ground
plane as narrow as that of the patch. This is due to the increase of the diffracted fields from the
edges of the smaller size ground plane.
II. Compact Slot-Ring Coupled Square Patch Antennas
The geometry of the proposed CPW-fed compact slot-ring coupled square patch antenna is
3In a previous study, a slot-ring coupled patch antenna has the large amount of radiation
produced by the coupled slot-ring, resulting in a radiation pattern with a poor front-to-back ratio.
In this section, we introduce a reflector to a slot-ring coupled patch antenna; by properly choosing
the dimensions of the reflector, the back radiation of the proposed antenna can be reduced
greatly.
A. Antenna Design
The geometry of a CPW-fed slot-ring coupled patch antenna with a reflector is shown in
Figure 5. The dimensions of the patch and the coupled slot-ring are, respectively, 25mm25mm
and 8mm8mm. In Fig. 5, the reflector etched on the back of 1.6mm-FR4 substrate is placed
under the ground plane with slot-ring aperture. For investigating the effects of the reflector, the
CPW feedline is etched on the ground-plane of 100mm100mm.
B. Experimental Results and Discussion
The related measured results of the slot-ring coupled patch antenna with a reflector are
described in Table 1. From the measured results, the resonant frequencies are almost unchanged
(<0.5%) for the compact slot-ring coupled patch antenna with and without a reflector. It means
that the incorporation of a reflector doesn’t affect the resonant frequency of the compact slot-ring
coupled patch antenna.
Some radiation characteristics of the slot-ring coupled patch antenna with a reflector have
been studied. The F/B ratio of the radiation field at various reflector sizes are also listed in Table
I. Figure 6 demonstrates the radiation pattern of the best F/B ratio. For comparison, the radiation
pattern of the proposed antenna without a reflector is also shown in Fig. 6. Moreover, the
measured maximum gain is about 2.5dBi at the resonant frequency for the cases in Table I. It is
noted that the gain is slightly changed (within 10%) for the proposed slot-ring coupled patch
antenna with and without a reflector.
IV. Compact Slot-Ring Coupled Patch Antenna with Omnidirectional Radiation Pattern
Many applications in wireless communication system, an antenna with omnidirectional
radiation pattern is necessary. In this study, omnidirectional patterns can be obtained by cutting
the widths of the substrate and ground plane as narrow as that of the patch. This is due to the
5References
[1] D. M. Pozar, “A reciprocity method of analysis. for printed slot and slot-coupled microstrip
antennas,”IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. AP-34, pp. 1439-1446, Dec. 1986.
[2] P. L. Sulivan and D. H. Schaubert, “Analysis of an aperture coupledmicrostrip antenna,” 
IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. AP-34, pp.977–984, Aug. 1986.
[3] L. Giauffret, J.M. Laheurte, and A. Papiernik,“Study of Various Shapes of the Coupling Slot
in CPW-Fed Microstrip Antennas”, IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. AP-45, no. 4, pp.
642-646, April 1997
[4]G. Forma and J. M. Laheurte, “CPW-fed oscilating microstrip antennas,” Electron. Lett., vol.
32, no. 2, pp. 85–86, Jan. 1996
[5] W. Menzel and W. Grabher, “A microstrip patch antenna with coplanar feed line,” IEEE
Microwave Guided Wave Lett., vol. 1, pp. 340–342, Nov. 1991.
[6] J. S. Chen, “Studies of CPW-fed Equilateral Triangular-ring Slot Antennas and
Triangular-ring Slot Coupled Patch Antennas,”IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., AP-53, no.
7, pp. 2208-2211, July 2005.
[7]S. D. Targonski and R. B. Waterhouse, “Reflector elements for aperture and aperture coupled 
microstrip antennas,” in Proc. IEEE Antennas and Propagation Symp. Dig., vol. 3, pp.
1840–1843, 1997.
[8]S. D. Targonski, R. B.Waterhouse, and D. M. Pozar, “Wideband aperture coupled microstrip 
aray with backlobe reduction,” Electron. Lett., vol. 33, no. 24, pp. 2005–2006, 1997.
[9] Hisao Iwasiki, “A back-to-back rectangular-patch antenna fed by a CPW”, IEEE Trans.
Antennas Propagat., AP-46, no. 10, pp. 1527-1530, 1998.
Fig.1 Geometry of a CPW-fed slot-ring coupled square patch antenna.
7Fig.5 Geometry of a CPW-fed slot-ring coupled square patch antenna with a reflector.
Fig.6 Measured the radiation patterns for Antennas with and without a reflector: (a) E-plane; (b)
H-plane; LP=25mm, reflector size=1.5mm70mm, r= 4.4, h = 1.6 mm, Sc = 0.3 mm, Wc =
3 mm.
Fig.7 Measured return losses of CPW-fed slot-ring coupled square patch antennas with
omnidirectional pattern at various slot-ring sizes.
9計畫成果自評：
本計畫內容主要利用共面波導線之饋入端上的調整株(tuning stub)、槽孔迴圈及一條反
射線，來作為縮小化且低背向輻射之機制。其中調整株之應用可使天線之阻抗匹配容易得
到；再者，由於接地面寬度之調整，可得天線的全向性場型。
經過一年之執行，本計畫完成了矩形環及圓形環槽孔耦合矩形微帶天線之縮小化設
計，部分成果亦發表在知名國際期刊及研討會上。整個計畫之執行與原計畫之內容非常相
符。
整體而言，本計畫之實際執行與原規劃之內容皆能相符，並且達成預期目標之結果，
在天線縮小化及全向性設計上，成果可說非常豐碩。
論文發表：
1. Compact Characteristics of CPW-fed Rectangular-Ring-Slot Coupled Microstrip Antennas
(ISCOM2005)
2. “Investigation of CPW-fed Triangular-ring Slot Antennas and Triangular-ring Slot Coupled
Patch Antennas”, Progress In Electromagnetics Research Symposium, Tokyo, Japan Aug. 2-5,
2006.
3. Investigations of CPW-fed Compact Slot-Ring Coupled Square Patch Antennas (IEEE-AP
revised)
