2system. When utilizing acoustic class features to
construct CAD systems, the area indices under
ROC curves were 0.80 and 0.85, respectively,
using conventional ultrasound and using spatial
compound imaging. The area indices were 0.95
and 0.97, respectively, using all features in
conventional US and that in spatial compound
imaging. The diagnostic performance of the
CAD system did not significantly improved
using spatial compound imaging.
1. Introduction
Ultrasound imaging has become more
prevalent than other medical imaging
techniques due to convenience, noninvasiveness,
and forming images in real-time. For breast
ultrasound findings, the Breast Imaging
Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS)
developed by the American College of
Radiology [1] standardizes the descriptions of
sonographic characteristics and treatments as
lexicon. Clinically, the radiologist describes the
US finding on the basis of standardized
descriptions in BI-RADS including shape,
orientation, margin, lesion boundary, echo
pattern, and posterior shadowing features and
then assess the likelihood of malignancy.
However, the ultrasound image suffers from
an inherent imaging artifact called speckle.
Generally, the speckle artifact in an image
masks the details and degrades contrast. To
reduce this artifact, spatial compound imaging
was, therefore, proposed [2-4]. Electronic beam
steering of a transducer array rapidly acquires
and compounds several images of the same
region from varying insonation angles to form
an image at real-time frame rates. The formed
image is averaged from images at several
different angles, reducing speckle artifact
influence.
Compared with conventional US, using
spatial compound imaging could improve
image quality [5-8]. The improvements include
reducing speckle artifacts, enhancing mass
margin delineation, and improving the
conspicuity of low-contrast mass. However, the
posterior acoustic characteristic is less clears in
spatial compound imaging than in conventional
US. Differences between the two imaging
techniques have concerned radiologists
regarding the inter-observer agreement [9, 10].
In their results, using spatial compound
imaging improves the inter-observer agreement
and reduces the inter-observer variation.
Further, Cha et al. [11] assessed the influence
of spatial compound imaging for diagnostic
performance of radiologists. They concluded
that spatial compound imaging did not
significantly improve diagnostic performance
of radiologists with respect to characterizing
solid breast masses.
With the rapid development of computer
applications, computer-aided diagnosis (CAD)
systems were widely developed for
differentiating the benign from malignant
masses [12-15]. In these results, several
computerized features were defined to
characterize the mass and the correlation with
corresponding pathological results was
regressed by training a classification model,
such as a neural network, as a CAD system [12,
14]. However, research investigating the
influences of imaging techniques to a CAD
system is lacking. This study assesses the
influences of spatial compound imaging,
compared with the conventional US, for the
CAD system.
4angular characteristics, MUA, are regarded as a
margin feature.
For evaluating the degree of abrupt interface
across a lesion boundary, the distance map
partitions two disjointed ring-like areas around
the lesion boundary as shown in Fig. 2(d). The
difference between the average gray intensities
of two areas evaluates the degree of abrupt
interface, LBD.
The contrast and variation within a mass
measure echo pattern characteristic is measured
by the. When sorting the pixels within the mass
in ascendant order by their gray intensities, the
first quartile Q1 is computed in order to divide
the pixels into darker and general groups. The
average gray intensities for the mass and darker
group are defined as
MPN
pI
massavg  )(_ and
DG
QpI
N
pI
DGavg

 1)(
)(
_ (2)
where NMP is the number of mass pixels and
NDG is the number of pixels in the darker group
and I(p) indicates the gray intensity of pixel I.
Then, the contrast feature
EPC is defined as
massavg
DGavg
EPC _
_ (3).
The variation on pixel p(x, y) can be evaluated
by the gradient magnitude. Further, the
variation of a mass, EPAG, can be measured as
MP
AG N
pG
EP  )( (4)
where G(p) is the gradient magnitude at pixel
p.
The posterior area behind the mass is defined
for evaluating the posterior acoustic
characteristic as shown in Fig. 3. For avoiding
edge shadowing, the left and right boundaries
of the posterior area are, respectively, shrunk
one-sixth of the mass width. The top and
bottom boundaries of the posterior area are
parallel to the bottom boundary of mass. When
sorting the pixels within the posterior area in
ascendant order by their gray intensities, the
third quartile Q3 is computed in order to divide
them into brighter and general groups. The
average gray intensities for the posterior area
and brighter group are defined as
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
Figure 2. (a) Spatial compound imaging shows
a malignant US finding. (b) The corresponding
distance map of mass (a). (c) Two undulation
and four angular characteristics are discovered
on the margin. Each angular characteristic is
circumscribed by ellipse. (d) Outer and inner
areas around the lesion boundary also could be
partitioned by distance map..
(a) (b)
Figure 3. (a) Conventional US shows an US
finding. (b) The area behind the mass is
defined to evaluate the posterior acoustic
characteristic.
6significance of difference between two resulting
values. The ROC analysis also measured
diagnostic performance of the CAD system [19].
The z-test measured the significance of
difference between two resulting Az values.
3. Results
Table 1 lists the mean value and standard
deviation in the benign and malignant groups
for conventional US and spatial compound
imaging on each computerized BI-RADS
feature. According to the resulting p-values in
the Student’s t test, the benign masses group
was statistically different from the malignant
group on each BI-RADS feature either for
conventional US or spatial compound imaging
because all p-values are less than 0.001 or 0.05.
When using acoustic related features to
construct a CAD system, the current study
merged the predicted likelihoods of malignancy
in the ten test sets as the final diagnostic results
for each imaging technique. The area index
under the ROC curve was 0.80 for the CAD
systems using conventional US compared to
the area 0.85 for those at spatial compound
imaging as shown in Fig. 4. The difference
between the two area indices was 0.05 and not
significant because the p-value was 0.148 in the
z-test. The diagnostic performances, accuracy,
sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV of final
diagnostic results for conventional US were
73.6(103/140), 74.4(32/43), 73.2(71/97),
55.2(32/58), and 86.6(71/82) respectively.
Oppositely, the corresponding performances
were 79.3(111/140), 83.7(36/43), 77.3(75/97),
62.1(36/58), and 91.5(75/82) respectively.
Although all indices for spatial compound
imaging were better than another technique, the
differences were not statistically significant
because all p-values were larger than 0.05 in
the Chi-square test.
When adopting all computerized BI-RADS
features, this work further compared the CAD
systems trained by conventional US and those
trained by spatial compound imaging. The area
index under the ROC curve was 0.97 for
conventional US compared to the area index
0.95 for spatial compound imaging as shown in
Fig. 4. The difference between the two area
indices was not significant because the p-value
was 0.546 in the z-test. The diagnostic
performances, accuracy, sensitivity, specificity,
PPV, and NPV of final diagnostic results for
conventional US were 92.1(129/140),
93.0(40/43), 91.8(89/97), 83.3(40/48), and
96.7(89/92) respectively. For spatial compound
imaging, the corresponding indices were
93.6(131/140), 93.0(40/43), 93.8(91/97),
87.0(40/46), and 96.8(91/94). The differences
were also not statistically significant in the
Chi-square test.
4. Discussion
In this study, the US findings either for
conventional US or for spatial compound
imaging were characterized by eight
computerized BI-RADS features. In terms of
capability for differentiating the malignant
from benign masses, both conventional US and
spatial compound imaging were statistically
significant in the Student’s t-test, respectively.
For the CAD system either trained by
conventional US or trained by spatial
compound imaging, the capabilities for
diagnosing masses were not statistically
significant regardless of using acoustic related
features or using all features.
5. 計劃結果自評
在本研究計畫中，我們針對目前廣泛使用
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號： NSC 97-2221-E-468-007
計畫名稱： 空間複合影像技術對於電腦輔助診斷系統診斷效能之影響
出席人員： 沈偉誌 助理教授
服務機關： 亞洲大學資訊工程學系
會議名稱： IAPR Conference on Machine Vision Applications
會議時間： May 20-22, 2009
會議地點： Hiyoshi Campus, Keio University, Japan
診斷效果一樣，影像品質的提升一樣無法同時提升電腦輔助診斷系統的診斷效能，這
樣的結果讓與會學者中，從事傳統影像處理的學者較為無法理解，而成為主要的詢問
問題，透過統計方法的說明，提出詢問的學者大致都能接受。
三、 參與會議心得
參與會議期間，除了同樣來自台灣的學者之外，同時也認識了幾位來自不同國家
的研究學者，可以幫助日後的學術交流工作；此外，除了醫學影像領域之外，也觀察
到在傳統影像處理、視訊、資訊安全等領域中的最新研究發展，很多的技術與觀念都
可以與日後醫學影像處理的研究工作結合，也從不同領域的研究中，觀察到不同面向
的思考方式與研究方法，同樣的也可以幫助日後研究工作的進行。
四、 攜回資料
MVA 2009 會議論文電子檔光碟一片。
settings. Both conventional US and spatial compound
imaging captured images and randomly determined the
order of acquisitions. The target mode produced all
spatial compound images consisting of nine frames
obtained from different viewing angles. The scanning
protocol used both transverse and longitudinal real-time
imaging of the solid masses and a split-screen imaging
mode obtained identical images with conventional US
and spatial compound imaging. To avoid interaction
between computerized image segmentation methods and
imaging techniques, the radiologist retrospectively
analyzed static ultrasound images and drew the margin
of mass using a paint program (Microsoft Paint, version
5.2, Microsoft Inc, Seattle, WA).
2.2. Computerized BI-RADS Features
The BI-RADS sonographic features, including shape,
orientation, margin, lesion boundary, echo pattern and
posterior shadowing, are quantified into eight
computerized features to characterize a mass.
The best-fit ellipse [16] characterizes the mass shape
as shown in Fig. 1. The ratio between the perimeter of
mass and that of corresponding best-fit ellipse evaluates
the irregularity, SPR, for a mass shape as
)(
)(
ellipsefit-bestPerimeter
massPerimeter
SPR  (1).
Further, the mass orientation, OE, can be estimated by
the angle θ between the horizontal line and the
major-axis of the best-fit ellipse as shown in Fig. 1. The
range ofθis limited in ]2,[0 .
The distance map [16] counts the undulations and
angular characteristics on the mass margin. For each
pixel in the ROI, the distance to the lesion boundary is
calculated. Fig. 2(b) shows an example for the distance
map of a mass. In the figure, darker intensity means a
longer distance. The lobulate areas between the mass
margin and the maximum inscribed circle of the mass are
defined as candidates of undulation as shown in Fig. 2(c).
If the maximum distance within each lobulate area is
larger than a predefined threshold, this lobulation is
admitted to an undulation. The local maxima on the
distance map are grouped and each formed group is
regarded as an angular characteristic as shown in Fig.
2(c). Finally, this research regards the summation of
undulations and angular characteristics, MUA, are
regarded as a margin feature.
For evaluating the degree of abrupt interface across a
lesion boundary, the distance map partitions two
disjointed ring-like areas around the lesion boundary as
shown in Fig. 2(d). The difference between the average
gray intensities of two areas evaluates the degree of
abrupt interface, LBD.
The contrast and variation within a mass measure echo
pattern characteristic is measured by the. When sorting
the pixels within the mass in ascendant order by their
gray intensities, the first quartile Q1 is computed in order
to divide the pixels into darker and general groups. The
average gray intensities for the mass and darker group
are defined as
MPN
pI
massavg  )(_ and
DG
QpI
N
pI
DGavg

 1)(
)(
_ (2)
where NMP is the number of mass pixels and NDG is the
number of pixels in the darker group and I(p) indicates
the gray intensity of pixel I. Then, the contrast feature
EPC is defined as
massavg
DGavg
EPC _
_ (3).
The variation on pixel p(x, y) can be evaluated by the
gradient magnitude. Further, the variation of a mass,
EPAG, can be measured as
(a) (b)
Figure 1. (a) Spatial compound imaging shows a
malignant US finding. (b) The best-fit ellipse is regarded
as baseline to describe the mass shape and orientation.
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
Figure 2. (a) Spatial compound imaging shows a
malignant US finding. (b) The corresponding distance
map of mass (a). (c) Two undulation and four angular
characteristics are discovered on the margin. Each
angular characteristic is circumscribed by ellipse. (d)
Outer and inner areas around the lesion boundary also
could be partitioned by distance map..
(a) (b)
Figure 3. (a) Conventional US shows an US finding. (b)
The area behind the mass is defined to evaluate the
posterior acoustic characteristic.
