中文摘要 
 
自捲曲聚酯纖維乃經並列複合紡絲方能進行。其中雙組份間之縮合率差為
是否能達成自捲曲之重要參數。本篇吾人即在探討如何透過學理之運算,預測
出自捲曲率之好壞。吾人發覺 Denton 所提之公式與本實驗結果相近。在雙組
份約 1:1 時,自捲曲率最佳。又纖維細度達 8丹尼時,有最佳之自捲效果。吾人
發覺自捲程度依捲曲大小排列如下 PET/PTT> PET/PBT> PET/CD。主要是因
PET,PTT 有最大之熱縮差。在抽絲過程中,吾人發覺保持雙組份相同之熔融黏
度,對防止狗腿現象有很大好處,且紡絲在加工後之捲曲度也達到最佳值。又在
不同幾何截面中,吾人發覺愈扁長者因捲曲力矩最大,所得之捲曲效果最佳。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 
Self-crimp fibers behave like natural wool with a textured appearance. The crimps are 
born from a composite of two parallel but attached fibers with differing shrinkage or 
expansion properties. Since the crimp is naturally born, the false twist or air texturing 
involved in typical fiber processing for synthetic fibers becomes unnecessary and can be 
eliminated. The elimination of this element can significantly cut the manufacturing costs, 
creating a “dream product” for a synthetic-fiber producer. Another important characteristic of 
the self-crimp yarn is that the crimp is not imposed on the fiber from the outside, but rather 
results from the rearrangement of the internal molecular structure of the fiber material. Usually 
the crimp generated by either false twist or air texturing is imposed on the fiber via mechanical 
deformation of the fiber as a 2-Dimensional Zig-Zag crimp (1-4). In some applications the 
crimped fiber must be extremely resilient, for example in fiber filling for pillows, furniture and so 
on. In such cases, a mechanical 2-D crimp is insufficient, and instead, a latent helical “self 
crimping” of the fiber is necessary. 
 Nevertheless, spinning of conjugated fiber represents the greatest challenge for the fiber 
industry (5-7). The technical difficulties include: (1) the melt instability between the two 
ingredients (2) the need to instantly adjust the throughput ratio (3) the complex design of the 
conjugated spinnerette. Du Pont Co. started to study the first self-crimp yarn (PP) during the 
early 1960s. Recently, the newly commercialized self-crimp products of Du Pont, polyester 
T-400 and nylon T-800, have become very popular in the market. Following the success of Du 
Pont, Unitica Co. also commercialized the self-crimp yarns, Z-10 and S-10. Furthermore, a 
nylon/polyurethane bicomponent filament, Sideria, developed by Kanebo Co., can adapt heat 
treatment to self-crimp itself to an appropriate degree. Self-crimp yarns have apparently become 
conspicuous in the fiber industry (8-12); however, few researchers have investigated the crimp 
mechanisms and the effect of fiber-processing parameters on the “crimp potential”. This study 
therefore attempts to produce and elucidate a new direction for self-crimp fiber development.  
(a.) Fibers with a single interface exhibit the best crimp potential. (b.) The crimp potential is 
maximized in a skein with a straight interface passing through the center of the cross-sectional 
area of a conjugated fiber. (c.) The crimp potential is zero for any cross-section with a center of 
symmetry (such as centric core/sheath). 
Eqn. (1) demonstrates that the amount of the differential shrinkage is the determinant of 
crimp curvature for a given cross-section. However, to obtain sufficient crimp the differential 
shrinkage must exceed a certain value. The differential shrinkage can be obtained in different 
ways and the thermal shrinkage without steam was used in this work.  
 
EXPERIMENTAL 
Spinning Setup and Fiber Drawing 
Two polyester resins, comprising PET as a fixed ingredient and another conjugated part 
selected from PBT, CD, or PTT, were spun simultaneously using a bicomponent spinning set. 
PET resin with IV - 0.64 (dissolved in a solvent of phenol/tetrachloroethane 6/4) and CD with 
IV – 0.45 were supplied by Hsing-Kuang Ltd. PBT resin with IV - 0.9 was obtained from Chung 
Chun Petrochemical Ltd. PTT resin with IV – 0.95 was supplied from Nan Ya Plastics Co. 
Notably, all the resins used were bright grade except for PET resin (delustered grade with TiO2 
0.32 %) to obtain a high contrast image in analyzing the cross section of fiber. Before melt 
spinning, the test polymers were dried to maintain a moisture level of below 100 ppm. 
Prior to the melt spin, the melt-viscosity was measured via a continuous rheometry (Hakke 
Polylab System) to determine the optimal spinning temperature. In this investigation, two 
individual single-screw extruders extruded PET and its conjugated part separately into the 
conjugated spin-pack. The spin-pack was a side-by-side device designed by HILLS Co. Moreover, 
a Barmag take-up winder (BARMAG DR4) was employed for collecting the yarns with a 
winding speed of 3500 m/min. A 30-minute filament package with a denier of 150 den./24 fils. 
was gathered for each experimental condition.  
 
Crimp Charaterization 
Notably, this temperature difference might be offset as two polymer merge together at the final 
section of the spinnerette. Since the residence time via the merged section is too short to even up 
the temperature differences, the merged section was assumed not to cause further viscosity 
difference. Figures 3 (a) to (d) show a series of PET/PBT conjugated spinning under different 
spinning conditions, where the spinning temperature was maintained at 290 oC for PET but was 
varied from 250 to 265 oC for PBT. The curved interface occurred in all the conditions except for 
3(c). This result agrees well with Figures 2 (a) (c) which illustrated a minimum difference in 
viscosity using the combination of PET/PTT 290oC/255oC (Fig. 4). The curved interface indicates 
an unbalanced pressure inside the spinnerette, the low-viscosity melt was pushed to occupy the 
high shear rate zone around the capillary wall. Generally, the formation of crimps in a skein is 
more difficult for a curved interface than a straight interface. Moreover and more seriously, a 
curved interface implies the occurrence of a serious dog-legging problem which would deter and 
even stop the spinning. To prevent the formation of a curved interface, melt spinning for each 
condition here was performed to minimize the difference between the melt viscosities of two 
sides via temperature adjustment.   
Crimp Investigation 
 Figure 5 represents the effect of the cross-sectional shape on crimp potential. The results 
indicate that, in the same cross-sectional area, the triangular shapes are superior to the round 
cross section. The calculation, derived from classical mechanics (18), reveals that the first 
momentμ1 and second moment I0 for round shape and triangle shape are 0.405 r, 0.39 r4 and 
0.483 r, 0.235 r4 respectively. Based on Eqn. (1), the crimp curvature of triangular shape is as 
twice as that of round shape. This theoretical calculation agrees well with the experimental results. 
Furthermore, Fig. 5 demonstrates that the one in a triangular shape with higher shrinkage 
component on the top, denoted as “the regular triangle”, exhibits greater crimp curvature than the 
other triangle with reversed order, denoted as “the reversed triangle”.  
 Figure 6 illustrates the influence of the volume ratio of two components on the crimp 
curvature. The optimal CP% generally occurred with a ratio of 50/50. It can be concluded that the 
optimal self-crimp can be achieved at the ratio around 50/50 and is independent of the 
combination of different components. Figure 7 illustrates a series of photos of the cross section 
investigation. Figure 10 indicates that the combination of PET/PTT outperforms that of PET/CD 
and PET/PBT in crimp potential measurement. Moreover, Table I reveals that the thermal 
shrinkage differs among individual polyesters, with the maximum difference in shrinkage 
occurring for the combination of PET/PTT. This study believes that the high thermal shrinkage of 
PTT results not only from the relaxation of oriented amorphous chains, but also from the 
relaxation of the planar Zig-Zag crystalline structure that is uniquely built by PTT (23, 24). 
Figure 11 shows the photos of the curved skein in various polyester combinations. The PET/PTT 
clearly exhibits the highest curvature and has the smallest crimp diameter. Meanwhile, the 
PET/CD illustrates the lowest curvature, which is in consistent with Table I and Fig. 10. 
 Figure 12 shows the crimp stability for various polyester combinations. The skein was here 
experienced five consecutive CP tests. The stability results reveal that the PET/CD completely 
lost its crimp potential. In contrast, the PET/PTT still exhibits good CP ratio. As mentioned 
earlier, the self crimp displays a more deformation resistant helical structure than a 2-D zigzag 
crimp, because the helix was formed from the bending of the inner structure rather than from the 
outside twist as the zigzag crimp being imposed. However, the PET/CD has the lowest shrinkage 
difference (see Table I), which leads to a significant reduction in its crimp stability following a 
harsh deformation test. 
Figure 13 illustrates the elastic recovery of a curved skein made from conjugated spinning. 
Straight skeins of individual pure polyesters were also included as references. The curved skein 
was first leveled off using pretension of 0.5 cN/tex, and then was elongated to various degrees to 
observe its recovery behavior. Figure13 shows that the elastic recovery was primarily dominated 
by the composed material itself. PTT alone exhibits a super recovery behavior for increasing the 
elongation by up to 30% of its original length. Unsurprisingly, PTT has been confirmed as a good 
elastic fiber by other researchers (25, 26). However, the PET/PTT skein, which only has half part 
of PTT compared to a pure PTT skein, displays a close recovery result. This result indicates that 
the crimp created by the conjugating mechanism should contribute to the elastic recovery of the 
skein to compensate for the elasticity loss from the no participated part of PTT in a PET/PTT 
curved yarn.    
  
Cambridge (1994) 
6. H. H. Cho, K.H. Kim, Y.A. Kang, H. Ito, and T. Kikutani, J. Appl. Polym. Sci., 77, 2254 (2000) 
7. S. P. Rwei, Z. F. Jue, F. L. Chen, Polym. Eng. Sci., 44, 331-344 (2004) 
8. M. Yoshitoki, M. Masahide, N. Hirotaka, JP Patent No. 2002-030527 (2002) 
9. S. Masayuki, M. Masahide, N. Hirotaka, JP Patent No. 2002-030527 (2002)  
10. K. Satoshi, S. Masayuki, M. Masahide, JP Patent No. 2001-355132 (2001)    
11. A. Talley, A. E. Wilkie, K. H. Buchanan, US Patent No. 6158204 (2000) 
12. G. A. Fernstorm, H.H. Hebeler, P.H. Lin, R.R. Moneymaker, US Patent No. 4301102 (1981) 
13. M. J. Denton, J. Textile Inst., 73, 253 (1982) 
14. G. T. C. Li, US Patent No. 4521484 (1985) 
15. J. H. Southern and R. L. Ballman, J. Polym. Sci.: Polym. Phys., 13, 863 (1975) 
16. C. D. Han, J. Appl. Polym. Sci., 19, 1875 (1975) 
17. N. Yoshihara, H. Ishihara, T. Yamada, Polym. Eng. Sci., 43, 1740 (2003) 
18. J. M. Gere, Mechanics of Materials (5th Edition), Appendix D, Thomson Learning Inc., 
Singapore (2001)  
19. S. P. Rwei, Polym. Eng. Sci., 40, 191-200 (2000) 
20. H. M. Heuvel and R Huisman, J. Appl Polym Sci., 22, 2229 (1978) 
21. J. S Nmizu, K. Toriumi, and K. Tamai, Sen-i Gakkaishi., 33, 208 (1977). 
22. I. Jacob and H. R. Schroeder, Chemiefasern, 30, 114 (1980) 
23. J. M. Huang and F. C. Chang, J. Polym. Sci.: Polym. Phys., 38, 934-941 (2000) 
24. H. Chuah, Polym. Eng. Sci., 41, 308-313 (2001) 
25. W. S. Lyoo , H. S. Lee, B. C. Ji, S. S. Han, K. Koo, S. S. Kim, J. H. Kim, J. S. Lee, T. W. Son, 
W. S. Yoon, J. Appl. Polym. Sci., 81, 3471-3480 (2001) 
26. J. S. Grebowicz, H. Brown, H. Chuah, J. M. Olvera, A. Wasiak, P. Sajkiewicz and A. Ziabicki , 
Polymer, 42,  7153-7160 (2001) 
 
 
 
Figure 2-c 
 
Figure 2-d 
Figures 2a-d  Melt viscosity as a function of shear rate in various temperatures for PET 
(Fig. 2a), CD (Fig. 2b), PBT (Fig 2c), and PTT (Fig. 2d), respectively.  
 
Figure 5 Crimp potential for bicomponent fibers (50/50 by volume) in combinations of 
various polyesters with different cross-sectional shapes. 
 
Figure 6  Crimp potential as a function of volume fraction in a bicomponent fiber for 
combinations of various polyesters. 
  
Figure 9   Crimp potential as a function of process temperature following spinning for 
bicomponent fibers (50/50 by volume) in combinations of various polyesters 
with a round cross-sectional shape. 
 
Figure 10  Skein shrinkage for bicomponent fibers (50/50 by volume) in combinations of 
various polyesters with a round cross-sectional shape. 
 Figure 13  Elastic recovery as a function of elongation ratio for fibers of pure polyester or 
bicomponent polyester with different combinations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          95 年  10 月  31  日 
 
報告人姓名  服務機構 
及職稱 
 
國立台北科技大學有機高分子所 芮祥鵬 
  
     時間 20 July 2-6 2006  本會核定 
會議  NSC 94-2216-E-027-003 補助文號 
     地點 Yamagata ,Japan 
會議  (中文)第 22 屆高分子加工學會年會 
名稱  (英文)22nd Annual Meeting of The Polymer Processing Society 
 (中文)非穩態高分子熔融體與TiO2接觸角研究 發表 
論文 
題目 
 (英文)Unsteady-state Contact Angle on Interface between Polymer Meet and 
TiO2 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議有包括美國 Makosco 在內多位國際高分子加工大師之研討會。 
由於在日本 Yamagata 之小鎮舉行,除開會外無相關文化參訪,因此會議熱烈,參與
者眾,學習成果良好。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
本次發現上海交大在 Rheology Modeling 進步神速,日本在 nano printing 亦有很
大進步,此外,Visual Rheology 之研究在英國 Cambridge 亦很有深度。    
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
無 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
建議國內之高分子加工學會及高分子流變學會亦可適時舉辦全國性之類似活動。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Conference Proceeding r 及參考書一本。 
 
六、其他 
建議爾後國際會議之輔助可適度提高。但仍感謝國科會給予此交流之機會。 
 
 
 
 
附件三
 
higher contact angle indicates the incompatibilization at the organic/inorganic interface, which  
causes the formation of air voids surrounding the surfaces of the inorganic compounds. The air  
voids around each powder spontaneously merge with the others, trap the powders, and finally  
cause them to agglomerate, which increases the viscosity and torque in a compounding process  
considerably. Several patents underscore the efficacy of titanate coupling agents in eliminating air.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unsteady-State Contact Angle on Interface between Polymer Melt and TiO2 
Syang –Peng Rwei*,  Shui Hung Su 
 
Institute of Organic and Polymeric Materials National Taipei University of Technology  
Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.  
Abstract  
The unsteady-state contact angle on the interface between the polymer melt and TiO2 was determined. The 
change in the contact angle from an unsteady to a steady state comprises three stages - the unsteady heat transfer 
state (stage I), the unsteady wetting state (stage II) and the approach to the equilibrium contact angle. Two important 
indices, the retardation timeτ and the contact angle in equilibrium state A∞ , are defined herein. The drop in the 
contact angle with time can be modeled as an exponential decay in terms of these two critical indices. Molten 
polystyrene (PS) has the smallest equilibrium angle A∞, followed by polytrimethylene terephthalate (PTT) and 
polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA), which has the greatest angle. Experimental results also indicate that a drop in the 
viscocity of the melt reduces A∞ and increases τ. However, reducing compact density increases A∞, but only 
slightly  reduces τ . Moreover, HIPS, modifying PS with polybutadiene particles yields a high contact angle A∞ and 
a lowτvalue. A plastogram for PS and HIPS with the same TiO2 loading (25 wt %) shows a marked torque 
deviation between PS and HIPS (7.1 Nm vs. 8.5 Nm), suggesting that a higher A∞ corresponds to a higher torque in 
the polymer compounding process. Keywords: unsteady-state contact angle, retardation timeτ, equilibrium contact 
angle A∞, plastogram,  
1 INTRODUCTION  
. The aim of this study is to understand fundamentally the interfacial affinity between the molten 
polymer and the TiO2 powder.  
2 EXPERIMENTAL  
The contact angle was observed, photographed and measured using a custom-designed platform 
mounted in a transparent housing in which the temperature was accurately controlled from 100 to 300 oC 
(±1 C) in nitrogen. Various polymers, polystyrene-PS (Chi Mei Co., PG 33, MW: 240,000 g/mole), high 
impact polystyrene – HIPS (Chi-Mei Co.,PH 60, MW:176,000 g/mole, 16.5 wt% grafted butadiene), 
polytrimethylene terephthalate-PTT (Lea-Lea Co., LT 12, MW: 2,2000 g/mole) and polymethyl 
methacrylate-PMMA(Chi-Mei Co., CM 211), were used. TiO2 was obtained from ISK Co. (ISK Co. 
Tokyo, TTO-51(A)). A circular cell (dia. 20mm, thickness 5mm) that contained TiO2 powder was 
mounted on a compressor and pressurized to form large but uniformly structured TiO2 cakes with given 
compact densities.   
3 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION  
Figure 1 presents a sequence of photographs, which show the typical evolution of contact angle 
between polymer melt and TiO2 from an unsteady state to an equilibrium state. Figure 2, based on Fig. 1, 
plots the contact angle versus time. The curve in Fig. 2 can be distinctly divided into three stages - the 
unsteady heat transfer state (stage I), the unsteady wetting state (stage II) and the equilibrium state of 
contact angle (stage III). The unsteady heat transfer stage was from the starting point of the experiment 
to the time when the contact angle of the molten pellet reached 50 degrees. During this stage, the 
variation in the contact angle is dominated by the transformation of the resin from the solid phase to the 
molten phase, because of the unsteady thermal transfer in the test chamber. Maxwell’s model for 
decaying stress in the viscoelastic relaxation experiment, described by Eq. (1), was used to quantify the 
nonlinear decay in the contact angle with time in stage II.  
Ai = k  Exp [- (ti –t0) / τ] + A∞ (1) where Ai is the contact angle measured at 
time ti; A∞ is the contact angle in the equilibrium state; k is the fitting constant; t0 is the heat-transfer 
period (up to a contact angle of 50 degrees), and τ is the retardation time.  
Figure 3 plots contact angle versus time for four polymers, PTT, PMMA, HIPS and PS. Table II 
lists the simulated indices determined by Eq.(1) under each condition. The unsteady heat-transfer 
period t0 was determined to be longer for an amorphous polymer such as PMMA or PS than for a 
semi-crystalline polymer such as PTT.   
Figure 4 presents an interesting and probably the most important result in this work. Figure 10  
shows that the torque value remained constant before loading. When 25 wt% TiO2 was loaded at  
500 secs, the torque of PS deviated considerably from that of HIPS (7.1 Nm vs. 8.5 Nm). The  
plastogram perfectly recorded the torque against the processing time in a polymer compounding  
process. The experimental results in Figs. 4 indicate that the final torque in a compounding  
process depends strongly on the contact angle A∞. A higher A∞ corresponds to a higher torque. A  
