行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
醫院協同整合之研究(I) 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100－ 2221－E－ 033 － 032 － 
執行期間： 100 年 8 月 01 日 至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
 
計畫主持人：陳平舜 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：尤俊仁、林英傑、詹昆霖、黃一中、曾方儀 
 
執行單位：中原大學工業與系統工程學系 
 
 
中  華  民  國  1 0 1  年  9  月  3 0  日
3 
效利用跨體系的醫療資源，以達成醫療體系的收支平衡以及永續發展，也成為一個值得深入
探討的學術且兼具實務應用的醫療實務議題。 
這類的醫療資源協同整合議題起源於協同商務的概念，在全球激烈競爭的時代，單打獨
鬥的企業經營模式將無法因應全球競爭的商業環境，因此企業為提升自身的競爭優勢，開始
與其他企業建立夥伴關係，甚至於與供應商或客戶進行協同。隨著網際網路的發展，讓供應
鏈上下游夥伴彼此之間可達到資訊整合，逐漸演變成協同商務的時代(洪新原等, 2008)。 
回顧水平整合文獻中，發現醫療產業水平整合的文獻很少，大都以聯合採購為主軸(Nollet, 
2003)，少數為醫院資訊系統連結和醫療資源分享(Boon, et al., 2004)。若以研究方法論來分類
醫療產業水平整合文獻的話，多數文獻偏重於質性研究為主，無論為單個案研究(Velasquez, et 
al., 2010)、多個案研究(Bartlett, et al., 2002; Henderson, et al., 2009)或問卷調查研究(Evans, et al., 
2006)，鮮有以量化方法為研究方法論的研究報告，例如：以作業研究為方法論的文獻，包含：
系統模擬和等候線理論為主的研究。 
因此，本計畫欲採用水平整合概念於醫療產業進行研究，形成嶄新的研究主題「醫院協
同整合」。本計畫研究主軸為：「同一醫療體系內各分院的醫療資源協同整合」。藉由分院與分
院間的醫院協同整合，來探討整個醫療體系的結構和找出一套可行的醫療資源協同整合架
構，以利於未來醫院能更順利的推動各種協同整合方案。 
 
2. 研究目的 
傳統醫院大都是獨立的醫療系統，而病患則可分為三類：自行到醫院掛門診看病、經由
救護車緊急護送到醫院或者經由醫師診斷後的轉診。在病患自行到醫院掛門診看病的行為
中，多數病患無論是大病或小病徵症，大都前往醫學中心或教學醫院的門診就醫，以尋求較
好的醫療服務品質。因此，也導致醫學中心或教學醫院的平均門診量偏高，而地區醫院或小
型醫院的平均門診量則偏低。而其相關醫療人員(醫師、藥師、護士和相關技師等)和醫療設
備(病床或儀器等)不是過度的超額負荷，就是空閒以待，均沒有妥善利用其醫療資源。 
雖然醫院協同整合有諸多的優點，但在執行上卻有其特殊的困難處，例如：醫院間的協
同整合會牽涉到醫院文化的差異性、醫院的規模，甚至醫院的會計系統等問題。因此，醫院
協同整合的實務執行面仍需進一步的探索和研究。 
從過去的醫院協同整合文獻或個案來看，成功的醫院協同整合大致上可分為三個類型：
一、公立醫院間的醫院協同整合；二、互補性醫院間的醫院協同整合(Henderson, et al., 2009)；
三、關係企業醫院間的醫院協同整合。這些成功的醫院協同整合個案中，大都只介紹其醫院
協同整合運作方式，並未針對以下二個問題提出回答：一、哪些因素會影響醫院協同整合成
功與否？二、在眾多醫院協同整合個案中，能否歸納出一套可遵循的參考規範，以增加醫院
執行醫療資源協同整合成功的機率？因此，本計畫的研究目的便是針對以上兩個問題做詳細
的探討與研究，冀望透過本研究，一方面歸納出影響醫院協同整合的關鍵成功因素，另一方
面則透過系統模擬的方式來找尋較佳的醫院協同整合架構。 
本計畫的醫院協同整合主要是探討「同一醫療體系內各分院的醫療資源協同整合」，透過
同一醫療體系內的各分院進行病患的轉診服務，以達成有效利用各分院的醫療資源。在醫療
實務上，因各分院的所在地點不同，病患就醫行為也會有區域性的差異，因此，各分院的醫
療資源協同整合仍有很大的改善空間。 
因此，本計畫將採用系統模擬當主要的研究方法論，因為醫院協同整合牽涉到許多人事
物，包含病患的就診行為、醫師對病患的治療行為、醫療人員的負荷和醫院的績效。若直接
導入某一醫療管理政策，可能會對醫院產生重大的衝擊。而系統模擬能提供情境模擬的分析，
避免以上缺點。所以，對本計畫而言，系統模擬是一個合適的研究方法論。 
 
 
5 
國越來越重視醫療機構在面對重大災難時是否能立即靈活反應，以提供最佳的醫療支援服
務。因此，Henderson, et al. (2009)觀察由 National Naval Medical Center (NNMC)與另外兩間地
理位置皆非常接近的醫療機構：Suburban Hospital Healthcare System (SHHS)及 National 
Institutes of Health Clinical Center (NIHCC)所組成的協同團隊進行的實際演練。這三間醫院協
同合作的原則是強調每家醫療機構皆有顯著的個別資源優勢，且各個優勢皆可補足其他成員
的資源及能力。透過美國國防部的經費補助與支持，該計畫不但得以順利進行，同時也透過
地區民眾參與的模擬演習，成功完成此醫院協同計畫，也被當成地區與政府對於緊急災難反
應之決策參考模式。 
Velasquez, et al. (2010)提出一套實際上有效且低成本的緊急訓練模型與決策支援系統，可
藉由不同醫院的醫療團隊面對電腦上各種不同的重大災情情境之模擬訓練，除可檢視各個部
門之優缺點，同時又可強化各個機構間的合作程序。於模擬訓練過程中，各個醫療團隊必需
在面對各種不同模擬情境下，擬定緊急反應決策。並在模擬訓練結束後，檢視和分析訓練過
程中與各個模擬情境相應的緊急反應決策紀錄，找尋需改善的關鍵問題。但根據模擬訓練結
束後的結果顯示：最需要加強的，除機構間的溝通之外，組織之間還需要更頻繁的互動，以
確保在真正面臨重大災難時，醫院協同團隊不但能在最少衝突的情況下遵循計畫進行緊急反
應，同時也能大幅減少成本和運輸傷患之時間。 
 
3.3  醫療系統模擬 
過去幾年已經有學者將模擬概念應用於醫療方面的研究，例如：流感擴散的模擬或醫院
流程改善的模擬等。Au-Yeung, et al. (2006)研究著重在討論事故部門和緊急部門的病患處理流
程與等候佇列的問題，主要調查一間倫敦醫院如何進行事故部門與緊急部門兩部門的合作，
並將病患處理流程簡化。藉由真正的病患計時資料幫助參數化模型外，其研究主要是探討如
何在有限的資源中，分配適當的資源給不同受傷等級的病患使用，以達到不浪費醫療資源和
縮短病患等待時間。 
Patvivatsiri (2006)發表的論文主要是分析評估醫療資源應用、病患流量或生化戰帶來的衝
擊，進而探討如何分配急診室中的醫護人員，使得急診室能有充足的醫護人員處理大量病患。
此研究使用 Flexsim 2.6 來模擬病患在急診室的總時間、治療活動期間病患的等待時間和急診
室的利用率(病床的使用率)。其研究結果顯示在遭受生化攻擊的情境下，病患因等待進入 Pob 
B、Pob C 這兩個區域和分類站的時間較久，使得病患在急診室中所花費的時間相對更多。在
這種情況下，Patvivatsiri (2006)認為因為 85%資源運用是發生在 Pob B、Pob C 兩個區域，因
此如果在系統中的分類站增加更多護士，並不會有任何改善。因此，Patvivatsiri (2006)提出新
的解決方式為：多增加兩位醫生和增加每個 Pod 的床位，同時也改變每個 Pod 中的護士人數。
模擬結果顯示病患在急診室中的總時間大幅下降，並可減少病患在 Pod B、Pob C 的等待時
間，也增加 Pod A 的床位使用率。另外，在分類站的護士人數未增加的情況下，病患的等待
時間也大幅減少。 
 
4. 研究方法 
4.1  問題定義 
在醫療資源與病患人數之比例逐年增加，且醫療資源有限的前提下，醫療機構如何藉由
醫院協同的方式達到資源利用率的平衡，且避免醫療資源利用率不平衡的狀態（有些醫療單
位的資源過剩、有些則超過負荷）。同時讓病患得到更即時的醫療服務，也能獲得更為優質的
醫療品質為本研究的目的。為了解醫院協同對醫療機構所帶來的衝擊及影響，本研究以總計
擁有 2,165 床的個案醫院兩院區(A 院區 1283 床和 B 院區 882 床)之放射科現有協同轉院機制
為例，針對現有電腦斷層掃描機台數及就診病患人數探討醫院應採取何種病患轉院檢查之人
7 
4.3  轉院機制之系統模擬模式 
本研究為探討醫院協同之電腦斷層掃描病患轉院機制對醫院體系造成的影響，因此以個
案醫院放射科的電腦斷層掃描檢查流程為例，將「無轉院機制」的檢查系統與醫院現有轉院
機制進行比較，如表一所示。 
 
表一、 電腦斷層掃描病患轉院機制 
 電腦斷層掃描病患轉院機制 病患看診順序 
對照組 無轉院機制 先進先出(First Come, First Serve) 
方案一 每日轉 2 名電腦斷層掃描病患至B院區 先進先出(First Come, First Serve) 
方案二 每日轉 3 名電腦斷層掃描病患至B院區 先進先出(First Come, First Serve) 
方案三 每日轉 4 名電腦斷層掃描病患至B院區 先進先出(First Come, First Serve) 
方案四 平均兩分院的電腦斷層掃描病患等候數(平均負荷法) 先進先出(First Come, First Serve) 
(資料來源：Chen, et al., 2012) 
 
5. 結果與討論 
本研究使用 CPU 為 Intel Pentium Dual Core 2.5 GHz、記憶體為 DDR2 2GB，且系統為
Microsoft Windows XP Version 2002 Service Pack 3 的個人電腦。配合 Arena 13 版的模擬軟體，
建立本研究「無轉院機制」 模式及「有醫院協同的轉院機制」模式之系統模擬程式。 
 
5.1  模擬假設 
為使模擬系統貼近實際情境，且將其變異降至最低，因此在設計模擬系統前，必須利用
合理且能符合實際情境的假設將實務中的不確定變因固定下來，同時也利用假設條件將模擬
系統所呈現的實務系統之範圍清楚定義出來。為使醫院協同之病患轉院機制模擬系統盡可能
的符合實際系統，本研究設定的假設條件如下：（1）不將急診與健檢病患納入模擬系統中；（2）
不考慮只提供急診與健檢病患使用之醫療資源（包含：電腦斷層掃描放射機台和放射師等）；
（3）由於 B 院區電腦斷層掃描放射機台未獨立設定只提供急診與健檢病患使用之電腦斷層
掃描放射機台，因此在不將急診與健檢病患納入考量的條件下，B 院區電腦斷層掃描放射機
台每天的運作時間之設定同 A 院區，即星期一至星期五每天皆從上午 8 點運作至下午 4 點，
且無小夜（下午 4 點至晚上 12 點）及無大夜班（晚上 12 點至隔天上午 8 點）；（4）每位病患
只需一個放射師及一台電腦斷層掃描機台便可進行電腦斷層掃描檢查；（5）由於個案醫院目
前以每位病患接受電腦斷層掃描檢查之所需時間為 15 分鐘的假設，安排病患進行檢查的排程
設定。因此本研究同樣以此設定為研究假設，將病患所需的檢查時間皆設定為 15 分鐘；（6）
由於個案醫院目前設定的回診時間限制（即病患需於醫師設定的回診時間前完成電腦斷層掃
描之檢查）為 14 至 21 天，因此本研究以個案醫院設定的最短時間（14 天）為研究假設；（7）
由於電腦斷層掃描放射機台每天皆從上午 8 點運作至下午 4 點，共計 8 小時，因此模擬時間
設定為 8 小時／每天，每次模擬長度為 300 天。 
 
 
9 
目為三人時，不會有超過等候 14 天之病患。若每日轉院病患數目為四人，這時反而分院 B會
產生超過等候 14 天之病患，換句話說，這時分院 B的電腦斷層掃描產能不足。另外，雖然平
均負荷法也有不錯的績效，但此方案在執行時，即醫師在對病患開電腦斷層掃描檢查單時，
必須了解目前兩分院的等候檢查病患數，因此，若無良好的資訊系統配合，此方案在實務上
較難執行。 
    因此，經過本研究的探討，每日轉院病患數目為三人時，是一個較佳的「有醫院協同的
轉院機制」的策略。對病患而言，能減少其平均等候電腦斷層掃描時間，讓病患提早獲得電
腦斷層掃描檢查，以利後續醫師的醫療診斷。對醫院而言，能避免病患超過 14 天的等候天數
限制外，也能分享彼此醫院的空閒醫療資源，而無需花費金錢購買昂貴機台。如此一來，醫
院可以建立醫院良好的醫療形象、擁有優質醫療服務及品質的良好口碑。所以，良好「醫院
協同之病患轉院機制」對病患和醫院為一個雙贏的策略。 
 
表二、 電腦斷層掃描病患轉院機制之模擬績效結果 
關鍵績效指標 分院 每日轉院病患數目 平均負荷法 0 2 3 4 
平均病患滯留檢查系統中的總時間(天) A 0.63 27.46 6.39 0.85 1.53B 1.02 0.62 0.75 1.21 6.79
病患平均等候檢查的時間(天) A 0.58 27.43 6.13 0.78 0.66B 0.96 0.59 0.71 1.18 6.76
平均等候檢查的病患人數(人) A 20 1,043 230 27 23B 36 19 25 44 257
電腦斷層掃描放射機台之利用率(100%) A 90 100 99 91 88B 100 88 93 99 100
平均超過回診時間才完成電腦斷層掃描之檢
查之病患人數(人) 
A 0 11,224 490 0 10
B 0 0 0 0 69
(資料來源：Chen, et al., 2012) 
 
5.5 研究結論 
本研究之具體貢獻：（1）提出醫院協同環境之轉院機制的可行方法，利用系統模擬模式
比較本研究提出方法與個案醫院之醫院協同轉院機制經驗法則的優缺點，並針對各模擬情境
提出因應方式與建議；（2）分析個案醫院在現有檢查系統與轉院機制下，每天應從 A 院區轉
至 B 院區進行檢查的病患人數；（3）了解個案醫院「醫院協同之轉院機制」實施方式，與訪
談個案醫院相關負責人員後，藉由個案醫院相關負責人員之實務經驗分析醫院協同之可行
性，並提出目前欲廣為實施醫院協同之問題與困難點。 
本研究初步成果已投至 2012 IIE Asian conference (no:43)，而後續結果已整理，預計投稿
2~3 篇國際期刊。 
 
5.6 未來研究 
因資料蒐集與實務驗證的困難，雖與現實系統有些微差異，但仍能作為未來延伸研究的
系統模擬模式之基礎。以下提出二個方向供欲繼續後續研究之學者參考：（1）由於個案醫院
B 院區欲接受檢查之病患人數有增加的趨勢，因此未來可考慮「非單向」之轉院機制，即將
「雙向」（A 和 B 兩分院之病患可互相轉院）之轉院機制納入考量，使其系統更接近實行醫院
協同的目的與精神，同時也能評估雙向轉院機制之可行性，以及對於醫院與病患的影響與衝
擊；（2）由於本研究只與單一個案醫院合作，實務上可能不限兩家醫院的協同，所以未來可
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：101 年 7 月 5 日 
一、參加會議經過 
    2012 IIE Asian 會議為在新加坡三天二夜的會議活動，我和系上兩位同事 6/28 抵達新加坡，當天
下午 3:00~5:00 參加 Workshop，其主題為” Publishing in top journals”，讓我了解到一些如何做出好研
究的一些必要條件和方法，增加未來自己的研究潛力。當天晚上則簡單的報到流程和用餐，並可讓
與會學者交流認識。我在系上資深老師的介紹下，認識一些優秀學者，有交換彼此名片的機會和初
步的交談。 
 
    第二天(6/29)起為正式的學術會議，早上安排二場的 keynote speaker 演講相關主題，包括” Data 
Fusion for In-Process Quality Improvement of Complex Systems”和” Flexibility in Engineering Design”，
兩場演講學者均使用不少案例來闡述其研究重要性與研究貢獻。接下來的議程為十二場次各子題的
計畫編號 NSC 100 － 2221 －E－ 033 － 032 － 
計畫名稱 醫院協同整合之研究(I) 
出國人員
姓名 陳平舜 
服務機構
及職稱 中原大學/助理教授 
會議時間 
101 年 6 月 28 日
至 
101 年 6 月 30 日 
會議地點 新加坡 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2012 工業工程學會亞洲會議 
(英文) 2012 IIE Asian Conference 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 以模擬分析醫院協同整合之初步研究 
(英文) A simulation analysis of hospital collaboration: A preliminary study 
附件四 
 3
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
    此會議採用電子檔格式，會議論文放在一網頁
(http://137.132.165.124/iieproceedings/login.aspx )，以供參與會議者憑註冊帳號下載會議
論文，為一壓縮檔，共 149 MB。 
 
六、其他 
    無。 
 
  
A simulation analysis of hospital collaboration: A preliminary study 
 
Abstract ID:  43 
 
Ping-Shun Chen and Chun-Yi Yang 
Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, 
Chung Li, 320, Taiwan, ROC 
 
Hai-Lun Chao 
Department of Health Care Administration, Chung Hwa University of Medical Technology  
Rende Shiang, Tainan, 717, Taiwan, ROC 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Hospital collaboration has become an important practical topic for researchers.  This research takes a practical 
hospital healthcare system as a case study; two hospitals’ imaging centers are the research scope.  The objective of 
this research is to study hospital collaboration through a quantitative research methodology, system simulation.  
Based on the numbers of patients and computed tomography (CT) capacity of two hospitals, this study uses system 
simulation to determine how many patients need to be referred from one hospital to another for CT scans in order to 
avoid over due-date CT patients.  In addition, a better patient-referring mechanism can reduce the waiting time and 
increase satisfaction.  Several key performance indicators are chosen to evaluate the patient-referring mechanisms.  
The simulation results show that referring three patients a day is a better alternative and is an easily implemented 
method for hospital managers.  Two barriers to hospital collaboration -- lack of information technology supports and 
different organizational cultures -- are discussed in this preliminary study.  The ongoing project will extend the 
results to more allied hospitals.  Further, a better patient-referring mechanism or heuristic merits advanced research.   
 
Keywords 
Computed tomography, hospital collaboration, patient-referring mechanism, simulation 
 
1. Introduction 
Hospital collaboration has been studied for decades and has become a critical topic for hospital management.  
Hospital collaboration consists of activities among allied hospitals in order to achieve objectives that improve 
healthcare quality and enhance the patient satisfaction, for example by reducing the patient cycle time and waiting 
time, sharing medical resources (physicians, beds or machines) or reengineering the hospital processes.  Through 
collaboration, each hospital can obtain significant benefits and increase its competitive advantage.  Researchers have 
explored the drivers of and barriers to hospital collaboration.  However, these studies focus on either how to 
establish a collaborative relationship or what factors of hospital collaboration can improve hospital performance.  
Although hospital managers have recognized the importance of hospital collaboration, they do not necessarily know 
how to implement a practical hospital collaboration project through quantitative research. 
 
Taiwan adopted its national health insurance system (NHIS) in 1995.  The more patients who were treated, the more 
money hospitals earned.  However, because of the growing demand for treatments and the limited government 
budget, Taiwan’s NHIS now transfers the payment for hospitals from fee-for-service to the global budget.  Under 
the global budget system, hospitals need to negotiate with the Bureau of National Health Insurance, which is under 
the jurisdiction of the Department of Health, Executive Yuan, for the annual NHIS payment.  The main purpose of 
the global budget system is to coordinate and control the total NHIS payments so that they remain within the budget.  
However, if hospitals treat more patients than the quotas allow, they only get the upper-bound payment from NHIS.  
This has had a significant influence on Taiwan’s hospitals and made the entire healthcare market more competitive 
than ever.  Consequently, some hospitals have gone bankrupt and others are struggling to keep their doors open.  
Proceedings of the IIE Asian Conference 2012
200
Chen et al. A simulation analysis of hospital collaboration 
 
2.2 Taiwan’s Hospital Collaboration 
Hospital collaboration can be intra- or inter-organizational.  As an example of the latter, the Department of Health, 
Executive Yuan, Taiwan has engaged in regional healthcare collaboration for more than ten years.  The purpose of 
healthcare regional collaboration is to establish a strategic alliance among regional hospitals to form an excellent 
healthcare service network.  Taiwan’s healthcare regional collaboration consists of northern and southern strategic 
alliances.  The northern collaboration consists of Taipei Hospital, Keelung Hospital, Taoyuan Hospital and Hsinchu 
Hospital.  The southern collaboration consists of Taichung Hospital, Changhua Hospital, Tainan Hospital and 
Pingtung Hospital.  Taiwan’s hospitals have constructed individual healthcare systems, including the Chang Gung 
Hospital Healthcare System, Tzu Chi Hospital Healthcare System, Veterans General Hospital Healthcare System, 
National Taiwan University Hospital Healthcare System, Show Chwan Hospital Healthcare System, China Medical 
University Hospital Healthcare System, Changhua Christian Hospital Healthcare System and Christian Hospital 
Healthcare System. 
 
There are five types of hospital collaboration. 
 Cooperation with suppliers: Group purchasing of medicine and medical material/products for allied 
hospitals. 
 Cooperation with outsourcing companies: Security or clean outsourcing for allied hospitals. 
 Cooperation with complementary hospitals: Outpatient service supports for certain specialty physicians 
among allied hospitals. 
 Cooperation with clinics: Patient referrals or physician substitutions among allied hospitals. 
 Cooperation with hospitals: Cross-hospital education training by the professional institution/hospital. 
 
The Taipei Department of Health implemented a policy on July 1, 2010 to find an available hospital to provide 
emergency medical treatment.  The policy established four hospital strategic alliances, each of which consisted of 
two partnered hospitals.  These eight hospitals shared information of emergency medical resources.  After an 
ambulance has picked up a patient, the emergency staff could have access to information, diagnose the patient’s 
condition and deliver the patient to an available emergency room.  So far, the policy has been successful and patient 
satisfaction has improved. 
 
For intra-organizational hospital collaboration, the most popular strategy is to establish a cross-functional team.  
Cross-functional teams can include doctors, nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians and radiologists.  Good cross-
functional teams can fulfill many hospital’s objectives in a more effective and efficient way.  The creation of a 
strong cross-functional hospital team has been an important topic for academic and practical research  For example, 
Wang et al. (2010) [4] surveyed 20 hospitals in Taiwan to investigate the effectiveness of cross-functional teams.  
They adopted McGrath’s Input-Process-Output team theoretical model.  Their results showed that team norms had 
positive effects on team effectiveness; team process had positive effects on team effectiveness; team norms and team 
cohesion had positive effects on team process; team process fully mediated between team structural characteristics 
and satisfaction; and team process mediated partially between team structural characteristics and performance.   
 
2.3 A Summary 
In sum, researchers have identified critical drivers of and barriers to successful hospital collaboration.  Further, most 
of these studies focus on either how to build a good collaborative relationship among hospitals or on the drivers of 
successful hospital collaboration.  However, most papers on hospital collaboration adopt qualitative research 
methods (case studies or questionnaires) instead of quantitative research methods (operations research).  This study 
therefore considers a case of two merged hospitals and adopts system simulation to investigate ways of sharing their 
medical resources among hospitals through patient referring mechanisms.  Further, this study discusses the 
implementation of hospital collaboration and compares them to previous literature in order to show the validity of 
the research findings.  
 
3. Methodology and Case Study 
 
3.1 Methodology 
System simulation has been widely applied in healthcare applications, such as medical resource allocation [5-7] and 
medical process reengineering [8-9].  For example, Au-Yeung et al. (2006) [5] explored how a London hospital 
treated accident survivors.  They collected the data from the emergency department to build their simulation models.  
Proceedings of the IIE Asian Conference 2012
202
Chen et al. A simulation analysis of hospital collaboration 
 
research.  Thus, this research considers only the inpatients and outpatients of two allied hospitals, but only 
outpatients can be referred. 
 
The CT data of inpatients and outpatients in two allied hospitals were collected from 2008 to 2010.  Approximately 
13,000 patients each year received a CT scan at each hospital.  Tables 1 and 2 depict the medical resources of two 
hospitals.  For the simulation setting, each hospital allotted eight hours per day for CT scans.  The warm-up period 
was 280 days by the pretest simulation.  The simulation length was 280 days for each replication.  Hospital A had 2 
CT machines, excluding the emergency and health examination CT machine.  Each hospital had 2 radiologists, 
excluding the emergency purpose of the CT radiologist.  Each CT machine needed one radiologist, and a CT scan 
took about 15 minutes. 
 
Table 1. Numbers of CT machines and radiologists of Hospitals A and B.  
Hospital A Hospital B 
# of CT Purposes of CT # of CT Purposes of CT 
2 
Inpatients, outpatients or health 
examination patients 
1 
Inpatients, outpatients or health 
examination patients 
1 Emergency patients 1 
Inpatients, outpatients, health 
examination or emergency patients 
Hospital A Hospital B 
3 radiologists (1 for emergency CT machine) 3 radiologists (1 for emergency CT machine) 
 
Table 2. Operating time and maintenance time of CT machines. 
CT operating time per patient Maintenance time 
15 minutes 4 hours per month for each CT machine 
 
3.4.2 Simulation Models 
This research proposed four CT patient-referring mechanisms, as shown in Table 3.  The equal patient waiting 
length policy meant that both hospitals kept the balance of the CT patient waiting length.  For example, if Hospital 
A had four patients waiting for the CT scan and Hospital B had two patients, the last CT patient to arrive at Hospital 
A would be referred to Hospital B until the CT patient waiting lengths of both hospitals were the same.  The 
simulation results are analyzed in Section 4. 
 
Table 3. Proposed CT patient referring mechanisms. 
 The patient referring mechanism Sequence of CT patients 
Control No referring patient FIFO 
Alternative 1 2 referring patients per day FIFO 
Alternative 2 3 referring patients per day FIFO 
Alternative 3 4 referring patients per day FIFO 
Alternative 4 Equal patient waiting length policy FIFO 
 
3.4.3 Performance Indicators 
The case hospital healthcare system needed to choose key performance indicators (KPIs) to evaluate the patient-
referring mechanism.  Five KPIs were chosen: CT patient average cycle time in the system, CT patient average 
waiting time, the number of average waiting CT patients, average CT machine utilization and the number of average 
over due-date CT patients.  The due-date for each CT patient was two weeks.  The most important KPI was the 
number of average over due-date CT patients due to the regulation of the case hospital.  Therefore, the manager of 
the case imaging center wanted to develop a patient-referring mechanism without over due-date CT patients. 
 
3.4.4 Verification and Validation 
The two most important components of the system simulation were verification and validation.  After the simulation 
models were built, the logic of simulation models had to be checked and corrected.  This process was called 
verification.  After verification, the simulated system had to be compared to the practical system validate it.  After 
Proceedings of the IIE Asian Conference 2012
204
Chen et al. A simulation analysis of hospital collaboration 
 
For the charging-fee issue, the patient can pay fees to the hospital that performs his or her CT scans.  Then, the 
patient returns to the original hospital for follow-up treatment.  When it comes to referrals, the patient is usually 
concerned about the physician’s reputation and quality of treatment.  In this case study, the patient is referred to 
another hospital to have his or her CT scans within the acceptable time period and is still treated by his or her 
original physician.  Therefore, the patient is usually willing to accept the referral.  In practice, it is easier to refer a 
patient to have his or her CT scans in another hospital than to have his or her medical treatment in another hospital. 
 
Due to this successful preliminary project, the case hospital will consider applying the proposed patient-referring 
mechanism for three or more allied hospitals.  The ongoing hospital collaboration project will be more complex and 
merit further research through system simulation.    
 
5. Conclusions and Future Research 
The results of this research showed that system simulation could be applied to this hospital collaboration.  Through 
system simulation, the hospital managers can find a better, more affordable and less time-consuming patient-
referring mechanism.  At the same time, the hospital managers can coordinate the medical resources and make 
necessary adjustments to resource allocation. 
 
In addition, this study discussed two barriers to hospital collaboration and showed that the hospital managers were 
able to overcome them.  Hence, the results of this research can provide some useful insights for hospital managers 
hoping for future collaboration.  
 
System simulation can not only be used to compare different policies and alternatives, but can also be used to 
perform some sensitivity analyses, which can set the critical parameters and provide some managerial implications.  
When a system becomes more complex, system simulation will play a more important role in hospital management.  
The hospital managers can rely on the results of simulation to make a better decision.   Abundant practical issues of 
hospital collaboration are worth further research.  For example, the resource allocation among allied hospital 
collaboration and hospital process reengineering have become important challenges for hospital collaboration.   
 
Acknowledgements 
This research was supported by the National Science Council under contract no. NSC 100-2221-E-033-032. 
 
References 
1. Chang, I.C., Hwang, H.-G., Hung, M.-C., Kuo, K.-M., and Yen, D.C., 2009, "Factors affecting cross-
hospital exchange of Electronic Medical Records," Information & Management, 46(2), 109-115. 
2. Bartlett, J., Cameron, P., and Cisera, M., 2002, "The Victorian emergency department collaboration," 
International Journal for Quality in Health Care, 14(6), 463-470. 
3. Henderson, D.K., Malanoski, M.P., Corapi, G., Passamani, E., Notobartolo, C., Gillette, C., Hawes, P., and 
Lee, L.M., 2009, "Bethesda hospitals' emergency preparedness partnership: A model for transinstitutional 
collaboration of emergency responses," Disaster Medicine and Public Health Preparedness, 3(3), 168-173. 
4. Wang, M.-L., Chen, W.-Y., Lin, Y.-Y., and Hsu, B.-F., 2010, "Structural characteristics, process, and 
effectiveness of cross-functional teams in hospitals: Testing the I-P-O model," The Journal of High 
Technology Management Research, 21(1), 14-22. 
5. Au-Yeung, S.W.M., Harrison, P.G., and Knottenbelt, W.J., 2006, "A queueing network model of patient 
flow in an accident and emergency department", Proc. of the 20th Annual European and Simulation 
Modelling Conference, October 23-25, Toulouse, France, 60-67. 
6. Patvivatsiri, L., 2006, "A simulation model for bioterrorism preparedness in an emergency room", Proc. of 
the Winter Simulation Conference, December 3-6, Monterey, California, 501-508. 
7. Zeltyn, S., Marmor, Y.N., Mandelbaum, A., Carmeli, B., Greenshpan, O., Mesika, Y., Wasserkrug, S., 
Vortman, P., Shtub, A., Lauterman, T., Schwartz, D., Moskovitch, K., Tzafrir, S., and Basis, F., 2011, 
"Simulation-based models of emergency departments: Operational, tactical, and strategic staffing," ACM 
Transactions on Modeling and Computer Simulation, 21(4), 24:1-24:25. 
8. Ramis, F.J., Baesler, F., Berho, E., Neriz, L., and Sepulveda, J.A., 2008, "A simulator to improve waiting 
times at a medical imaging center", Proc. of the Winter Simulation Conference, December 5-8, Baltimore, 
Maryland, 1572-1577. 
Proceedings of the IIE Asian Conference 2012
206
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/09/05
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 醫院協同整合之研究(I)
計畫主持人: 陳平舜
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-033-032- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
件數 0 0 100% 件  技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
其研究結果已落實在合作之醫院，研究發現系統模擬能有效幫助放射室主任做
兩家協同醫院的病患轉檢之決策，讓兩家醫院之醫療資源有效利用，縮短病患
在醫院的總流程時間，並提高病患對醫院之滿意度。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
