 2 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫第一年成果報告 
子計畫二: 車間通訊之媒體存取協定與車用移動管理 
計畫編號：NSC－97－2221－E－305－003－MY3 
執行期限：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：陳裕賢 教授    共 同 主 持 人：邱舉明 教授 
執行單位：國立台北大學資訊工程系 
計畫參與人員：蕭翊光、蔡宜哲、易衛漢 
 
中文摘要 
在第一年的計畫中，我們在車載隨意行動
網路上分別提出了(1)針對提高緊急訊息傳
播成功率的行動繞徑傳播協定、(2) 減少資
料傳輸延遲時間的以對角路口規劃基礎的
繞徑協定、(3) 快速無縫式快速換手的車用
移動管理協定、(4) 以及為了提供頻寬品質
保證服務的以交錯式基礎的服務品質保證
的繞徑協定、(5) 最後，我們也實作出車載
隨意行動網路-車用碰撞預警系統，用以警
告駕駛人碰撞的風險進而提高駕駛人的生
命安全，此實作成果並獲得教育部 2008 全
國車載資通訊創意與實作競賽亞軍。 
 
關鍵字： 行動繞徑、繞徑、車用移動管理、
服務品質保證、碰撞預警系統。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
In the first year, we proposed (1) the mobi-
cast routing protocol in VANETs to improve 
the successful rate of emergency message 
dissemination, (2) the Diagonal–Intersection- 
Based (DIR) routing protocol in VANETs to 
reduce the delivery delay-time, (3) the net-
work mobility in VANETs to achieve fast 
seamless handoff, (4) and the shoelace-based 
QoS routing protocol in MANETs to provide 
QoS service. In addition, we have also im-
plemented the collision warning system for 
VANETs to improve drivers‘ safety for acci-
dent avoidance. This result receipts the second 
place, ―Telematics‖ Contest, Ministry of Edu-
cation, Taiwan, ROC, 2008. 
 
Keywords: mobicast、routing、network mo-
bility、QoS routing、collision warning system 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
warning system as follows. 
1. A Mobicast Routing Protocol in Vehicu-
lar Ad Hoc Networks (This result is pub-
lished at ACM/Springer Mobile Networks and 
Applications (MONET), Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 
20-35, Feb. 2010. (2009 SCI IF=1.013)) 
In the first result, we present a ―spatiotem-
poral multicast‖, called a ―mobicast‖, protocol 
for supporting applications which require spa-
tiotemporal coordination in vehicular ad hoc 
networks (VANETs). The spatiotemporal cha-
racter of a mobicast is to forward a mobicast 
message to vehicles located in some geo-
graphic zone at time t, where the geographic 
zone is denoted as zone of relevance (ZOR). 
Vehicles located in ZOR at the time t must 
keep the connectivity to maintain the real-time 
data communication between all vehicles in 
ZOR. The connectivity is kept of all vehicles 
in ZOR through the vehicular ad hoc networks 
(VANETs). The connectivity of ZOR is lost if 
any vehicle in ZOR suddenly accelerates or 
decelerates its velocity. The temporal network 
fragmentation problem is occurred such that 
vehicle in ZOR cannot successfully receive 
the mobicast messages. To solve the problem, 
a new mobicast protocol is presented in this 
result to successfully disseminate mobicast 
messages to all vehicles in ZOR via a special 
geographic zone, called as zone of forwarding 
(ZOF) as shown in Fig. 1.  
 
 
Fig. 1: (a) temporal network fragmentation 
problem and (b) example of ZOFt 
 
The main contribution of this work is to 
develop a new mobicast routing protocol to 
dynamically estimate the accurate ZOF to 
successfully disseminate mobicast messages 
to all vehicles in ZOR as shown in Fig. 2. To 
illustrate the performance achievement, simu-
lation results are examined in terms of disse-
mination successful rate and packet delivery 
delay. 
 
Fig. 2: An example of mobicast routing 
protocol. 
Fig. 3 shows the observed dissemination 
successful rate (DSR) under various network 
densities (ND), where the maximum velocity, 
v, is 50, 80, and 100 km/hr, respectively. A 
mobicast routing protocol with the high dis-
semination successful rate implies that the 
value of its DSR was high. The DSR was low 
if v was high for various NDs. It was observed 
that DSR was very low under v=100 km/hr 
since it is easily moved out the transmission 
range of IEEE 802.11b. In addition, the higher 
the ND is, the higher the DSR will be. For 
each case, the curve of the DSR of v=100 
km/hr was lower than that of v=80 km/hr, and 
the curve of the DSR of v=80 km/hr was low-
er than that of v=50 km/hr.  
 
 
 6 
Fig. 7 illustrates the average packet delivery 
ratio (PDR) vs. various network densities. For 
each case, the curve of DIR_B was higher 
than that of the DIR_A, and the curve of 
DIR_A was higher than that of CAR. The 
PDR was high where the ND is high. This is 
because that the higher network density pro-
vides more successful transmission opportuni-
ties for vehicles to forward message to the 
next vehicle more closely to destination. For 
the effect of ND, it was observed that when 
the moving speed is high, then the corres-
ponding PDR of DIR_A, DIR_B, and CAR 
decreases. 
 
Fig. 7: Performance of the packet delivery 
ratio (PDR) vs. network density. 
Fig.8 shows the performance of the mes-
sage overhead (MO) vs. various ND. The 
curve of DIR_B was higher than that of the 
DIR_A, and the curve of DIR_A was higher 
than that of CAR. The MO drops as ND de-
creases. For the effect of ND, when the mov-
ing speed is high, then the corresponding MO 
of DIR_A, DIR_B, and CAR increases. 
 
Fig. 8: Performance of the message over-
head (MO) vs. network density. 
 
3. Network Mobility Protocol for Vehicular 
Ad Hoc Networks (This result is revised by 
Wireless Personal Communications, 
2011. (2010 SCI IF=0.503) This result is also 
published by IEEE Wireless Communications 
and Networking Conference (WCNC) 2009) 
In the third result, a fast handoff scheme for 
VANETs is proposed. The goal of the network 
mobility (NEMO) management is to effec-
tively reduce the complexity of handoff pro-
cedure and keep the mobile devices connected 
to the Internet. Vehicle is moving so fast that it 
may cause the handoff and packet loss prob-
lems. Both of the problems will lower down 
the throughput of the network. To overcome 
these problems, we propose a novel NEMO 
protocol for vehicular ad hoc networks (VA-
NETs).  
 
 
Fig. 9: Network mobility scenario: (a) 
NEMO on a real Bus (b) NEMO on a Vir-
tual Bus with two vehicles (c) NEMO on a 
Virtual Bus with three vehicles (d) NEMO 
on a Virtual Bus with more than three ve-
hicles 
 
In freeway, since every car is moving in a 
fixed direction with high moving speed, the 
car adopting our protocol can acquire IP ad-
 8 
bile ad hoc network (MANET) using direc-
tional antennas. The proposed scheme offers a 
bandwidth based routing protocol for QoS 
support in MANET using the concept of mul-
ti-path. Our MAC sub-layer adopts the 
CDMA-over-TDMA channel model. The 
on-demand QoS routing protocol calculates 
the end-to-end bandwidth and allocates band-
width from the source node to the destination 
node.  
 
  
     (a)               (b)             (C) 
Fig. 13: Examples of different QoS routes 
with directional antennas (a) uni-path route, 
(b) multi-path route, (c) shoelace-path 
route 
 
The paths are combined with multiple cross 
links, called shoelace, when the network 
bandwidth is strictly limited. Due to the prop-
erty of the directional antenna, these cross 
links can transmit data simultaneously without 
any data interference. We develop a shoe-
lace-based on-demand QoS routing protocol 
by identifying shoelaces in a MANET so as to 
construct a QoS route, which satisfied the 
bandwidth requirement, more easily.  
 
 
Fig. 14: An example of shoelace-path. 
 
The shoelace-based route from the source to 
the destination is a route whose sub-path is 
constructed by shoelace structure. With the 
identified shoelaces, our shoelace-based 
scheme offers a higher success rate to con-
struct a QoS route. Simulations results demon-
strate that the proposed routing protocol out-
perform existing QoS routing protocols in 
terms of success rate, throughput, and average 
latency. 
 
 
Fig. 15: Identifying of shoelace-path 
 
Fig.16 shows the performance of success 
rate vs. mobility, where 0 ≤ Mo ≤ 50 km/h, 
with Br fixed at 4 time slots, Bn fixed at 25%, 
and Se fixed at 8. All protocols have low suc-
cess rate at higher mobility. A higher success 
rate indicates that a better scheme was 
achieved. From that point, the shoelace 
scheme is better than the others. 
 
 
Fig. 16: Performance of success rate vs. 
mobility 
 
Fig. 16 shows the performance of through-
put vs. bandwidth requirement, where 1 ≤ Br ≤ 
8 time slots, with Mo fixed at 30 km/h, Bn 
fixed at 25%, and Se fixed at 8. When the 
bandwidth requirement is increased, the shoe-
lace-based protocol is obvious better than the 
others. This is because the higher bandwidth 
requirements easily lead to low priority flows 
and thus reduce their flow rate and block the 
 10 
 
Fig. 20: System demonstration 
 
Fig. 21: System operating procedure 
 
 
Fig. 22: Driver’s status detector 
 
 
Fig. 23: Driver’s states demonstration 
 
 
Fig. 21: The second place, Telematic Con-
test of Ministry of Education 2008. 
IV. Discussion and Conclusion 
In the first year, we achieve both protocol 
designing and system implementation. For the 
protocol designing, we proposed four impor-
tant and essential protocols, mobicast routing 
protocol, DIR routing protocol, network mo-
bility protocol, and shoelace-based QoS 
routing protocol, on VANETs. Mobicast 
routing protocol is to disseminate the emer-
gency message for improving the safety of 
drivers. Emergency messages can be success-
fully delivered to relative vehicles to warn 
drivers; therefore, drivers have enough time to 
prevent an accident. DIR routing protocol uti-
lizes diagonal intersections to indicate the 
routing path for data delivery, and meantime 
the realistic traffic flow is considered to re-
duce the delivery delay-time. Network mobil-
ity protocol improves the handoff latency by 
adopting the concept of virtual bus. Virtual 
bus composed of several vehicles assists early 
IP passing for an incoming vehicle to achieve 
fast and seamless handoff. Shoelace-based 
QoS routing protocol utilizes the directional 
antenna to provide the bandwidth guarantee 
for satisfying real-time services and high 
bandwidth requirement applications. The bot-
tle neck problem in a network can be alle-
viated. For the system implementation, we 
develop the collision warning system on VA-
NETs. Collision warning system can improve 
the safety of drivers by monitoring the driv-
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫第二年成果報告 
子計畫二: 車間通訊之媒體存取協定與車用移動管理 
計畫編號：NSC－97－2221－E－305－003－MY3 
執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：陳裕賢 教授    共 同 主 持 人：邱舉明 教授 
執行單位：國立台北大學資訊工程系 
計畫參與人員：黎炤均、洪家祥、易衛漢、黃宥崴 
中文摘要 
在第二年的計畫中，我們在車載隨意行動
網路上提出了(1) 跨層式設計之以車輛協助
換手機制，讓使用者透過車網路上網能夠享
受不斷線的服務、(2) 以線性回歸為預測基
礎的延遲限制路由繞徑協定，用以降低非安
全性應用的通訊成本；此外針對提高通訊效
率，我們在多頻道無線感測網路下提出(3)
高效率動態調整之媒體存取控制協定，與在
多速率多天線無線隨意行動網路環境下提
出(4)以多中繼點為基礎之媒體存取協定；最
後，有鑑於車載隨意行動網路儼然是未來重
要的通訊技術，我們深入考察現行研究技
術，根據結果整理出(5)車載無線隨意行動網
路的研究與展望，並匯整目前車載技術與應
用，寫下書目(6) 車載資通訊:無線架構與應
用，幫助相關領域的學者拓展研究廣度。 
 
關鍵字： 行動繞徑、延遲限制、換手、媒
體存取控制、多速率、多天線、
多中繼點。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
In the second year, we proposed (1) cross 
layer design vehicle-aided handover scheme 
in vehicular ad-hoc networks (VANETs) to 
improve the handover procedure, (2) linear 
regression-based delay bounded routing pro-
tocol for VANETs to reduce the communica-
tion overhead for non-safety application. To 
improve the communication efficiency, we 
also proposed (3) an efficient dynamic adjust-
ing MAC protocol for multi-channel cognitive 
wireless networks, and (4) a multiple re-
lay-based medium access control protocol in 
multirate wireless ad hoc networks with mul-
tiple beam antennas. Since VANETs have re-
cently attracted extensive attentions as a 
promising technology for revolutionizing the 
transportation systems, we investigate the ex-
isting routing techniques in VANETs to pro-
pose (5) routing protocols in vehicular ad-hoc 
networks: a survey and future perspectives. 
We also arrange the existing architecture and 
application of VANETs to write a book (6) 
telematics communication technologies and 
vehicular networks: wireless architectures and 
applications. 
Keywords: mobicast、routing、delay- 
bounded、media access control、multirate、
relay。 
 14 
tion of passing through RVs and broadcast the 
information to vehicles that are temporarily 
disconnected, referred to as disconnected ve-
hicles (DVs). A DV can thus perform a rapid 
handover when it enters the transmission 
range of one of approaching RVs. The effec-
tiveness of VFHS is verified using ns2 simu-
lations. Simulation results indicate that VFHS 
significantly decreases handover latency and 
packet loss. 
 
 
Fig. 1: Vehicle-aided handover scheme. 
 
Fig. 2 illustrates the cross-layer structure 
of the system under consideration. NTM is a 
cross-layer message comprising information 
of the physical (position and channel) and 
MAC (WiMAX) layers. In VFHS, the position 
and channel information of the oncoming RV 
are accumulated, abstracted and managed by 
OSVs when acquires. In addition to the RV 
information, an OSV inserts its position in-
formation into NTM, and broadcasts to DVs. 
Upon receiving a NTM, DVs can adjust the 
setting of the channel frequency of the Wi-
MAX adapter immediately by retrieving the 
channel and position information; instead of 
scanning all channel frequencies sequentially 
by the physical layer. Therefore, according to 
this cross-layer design, VFHS reduces the 
time of scanning procedure. 
 
Fig. 2: Cross layer stack integration posi-
tion information with WiMAX MAC layer. 
 
Fig. 3 shows that the handover latency 
decreases quickly as the relative speed of DV 
increases from 2m/sec to 4m/sec, mainly be-
cause the time to pass through the discon-
nected area (gap) is reduced. The handover 
procedure in standard WiMAX takes about 11 
seconds. Because the time for the DV to pass 
through the gap is less than 11 seconds, the 
handover latency is dominated by the handov-
er procedure itself. Therefore, the increase in 
relative speed does not further reduce the 
handover latency. Additionally, the time to 
pass through the gap is lowered as the speed 
of DV increases, thus further reducing the 
handover latency, as demonstrated in Fig. 3. 
The arrival rate of OSV also influences the 
handover latency of VFHS, although not sig-
nificantly. A higher arrival implies that the DV 
has a higher likelihood of receiving the phys-
ical layer information broadcasted by an OSV. 
 
Fig. 3: Performance of handover latency under 
various relative speeds. 
 
 
 16 
DMinCost, LR-Greedy, and D-Greedy 
schemes. The proposed LR-Centralized and 
LR-Greedy schemes perform better than the 
D-MinCost and D-Greedy schemes respec-
tively, because our schemes can switch the 
delivery strategy whenever the regression line 
is moving from the upper side to the lower 
side of the criteria line (or vice versa). Hence, 
our schemes can switch to proper delivery 
strategy at proper moment and thus can reduce 
the number of relays by radio. As the number 
of car increases, the total transmitted bytes 
also increases because higher density of cars 
will slow down the moving speed of vehicles 
and thus increases the number of relays by 
radio. 
 
Fig. 6: Performance of total transmitted bytes 
vs. the number of cars. 
 
3. An Efficient Dynamic Adjusting MAC 
Protocol for Multichannel Cognitive Wire-
less Networks (IEEE International Confe-
rence on Wireless Communication, Network-
ing, and Information Security (WCNIC), 
2010) 
In the third result, we consider to en-
hance the usage of radio spectrum, a wireless 
network, named as the cognitive wireless 
network, which allows the unlicensed users to 
scan and use idle radio spectrum, has attracted 
a lot of attention recently. Because the radio 
spectrum has to return to the licensed user 
whenever the licensed user needs it, the radio 
spectrum of cognitive wireless networks is a 
precious resource. Hence, how to avoid colli-
sions and enhance the throughput of the net-
work are important issues for designing MAC 
protocols of cognitive wireless networks.  
In this paper, we propose an efficient 
dynamic adjusting MAC (EDA-MAC) proto-
col for cognitive wireless networks. 
EDA-MAC is improved from C-MAC, which 
assigns each joined host a dedicated beacon 
slot and thus it has a good potential to avoid 
contentions and collisions and achieve high 
throughput. The improvements we made are 
listed as follows: First, instead of a fixed 
number of signaling slots of C-MAC, 
EDA-MAC dynamically adjusts the number 
of signaling slots according to the number of 
estimated contenders and thus reduces the 
number of collisions and shortens the join 
process. Second, each joined host can inform 
others its transmission intention by its beacon 
frame. Since each joined host has a dedicated 
beacon slot, almost all the beacon frames can 
be sent without any collision. Third, each 
communication group contains a leader. The 
leader is responsible for coordinating the join 
process, data transmission, transmission rate 
selection, channel scan, and channel switch of 
each host in the communication group. With 
the coordination of the leader, unnecessary 
contentions and collisions can be avoided and 
thus enhances the throughput of the network. 
Simulation results justify the efficiency of the 
proposed EDA-MAC protocol. 
 
 18 
viated. In addition, the ACK synchronization 
problem is solved to avoid the condition that 
source nodes do not receive ACKs from desti-
nation nodes. An adjustment operation is pre-
sented to reduce unnecessary relay nodes dur-
ing the fragment burst period.  
 
Fig. 10: The multiple relay-based medium 
access control protocol. 
Fig. 10 illustrates the basic idea of the 
multiple relay-based MAC protocol. Assume 
that S sends a frame with  bits to , let 
nodes , , and  be relay nodes be-
tween nodes S and D. Ta is the transmission 
latency of direct transmission between  and 
.  is the transmission latency with one 
relay node .  is the transmission latency 
by two disjoint paths, one is the direct trans-
mission between  and , and another is the 
path passed through a relay node .  is 
the transmission latency by three disjoint paths, 
these paths are passed through relay nodes , 
, and . 
Fig. 11 shows the difference between the 
multiple relay-based MAC protocol and ESIF. 
The scenario only has a source node and a des-
tination node. Distances between the source 
and destination nodes are changed from 5 to 
250 m.  
 
Fig. 11: Performance of throughput vs. dis-
tances between source and destination nodes. 
 
5. Routing Protocols in Vehicular Ah Hoc 
Networks: A Survey and Future Perspec-
tives (This result is accepted by Journal of In-
formation Science and Engineering, Vol. 26, 
No. 3, pp. 913-932, May 2010. (2009 SCI 
IF=0.315)) 
In the fifth result, we survey new routing 
results in VANET. We introduce unicast pro-
tocol, multicast protocol, geocast protocol, 
mobicast protocol, and broadcast protocol. It 
is observed that carry-and-forward is the new 
and key consideration for designing all routing 
protocols in VANETs. With the consideration 
of multihop forwarding and carry and forward 
techniques, min-delay and delay-bounded 
routing protocols for VANETs are discussed in 
VANETs. Besides, the temporary network 
fragmentation problem and the broadcast 
storm problem are further considered for de-
signing routing protocols in VANETs. The 
temporary network fragmentation problem 
caused by rapidly changeable topology influ-
ence on the performance of data transmissions. 
The broadcast storm problem seriously affects 
the successful rate of message delivery in 
VANETs. The key challenge is to overcome 
these problems to provide routing protocols 
with the low communication delay, the low 
communication overhead, and the low time 
complexity. The challenges and perspectives 
 20 
Vehicle-Aided Handover Scheme in 
VANETs", Wireless Communications and 
Mobile Computing, Vol. 11, Issue 7, pp. 
916-928, July 2011. (2010 SCI 
IF=0.810). 
[2]  Yuh-Shyan Chen, Chih-Shun Hsu, and 
Yi-Guang Siao, "Linear Regres-
sion-Based Delay-Bounded Routing Pro-
tocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks," 
Wireless Communications and Mobile 
Computing, 2011 (2010 SCI IF=0.810) 
(revision), partial result is presented at 
IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference 
(VTC-2010-Spring), Taipei, Taiwan, 
2010). 
[3]  Chih-Shun Hsu, Yuh-Shyan Chen, and 
Chih-En He, "An Efficient Dynamic Ad-
justing MAC Protocol for Multi-Channel 
Cognitive Wireless Networks," IEEE In-
ternational Conference on Wireless 
Communication, Networking, and Infor-
mation Security (WCNIC2010), June 
25-27, 2010, Beijing, China. 
[4]  Yuh-Shyan Chen, Chih-Shun Hsu, and 
Po-Ta Chen, "A Multiple Relay-Based 
Medium Access Control Protocol in Mul-
tirate Wireless Ad Hoc Networks with 
Multiple Beam Antennas," International 
Journal of Communication Systems, Vol. 
23, Issue 5, pp. 596-632, May 2010.  
[5] Yun-Wei Lin, Yuh-Shyan Chen, and 
Sing-Ling Lee, "Routing Protocols in Ve-
hicular Ah Hoc Networks: A Survey and 
Future Perspectives," Journal of Informa-
tion Science and Engineering, Vol. 26, 
No. 3, May 2010. 
[6] Edited Book: Chung-Ming Huang and 
Yuh-Shyan Chen, "Telematics Commu-
nication Technologies and Vehicular 
Networks: Wireless Architectures and 
Applications", IGI Global, Dec. 2009. 
 22 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可利用之產業：汽車工業、電子通訊產業、無線通訊產業 
可開發之產品：行車安全系統、緊急事故預防系統 
技術特點 
1. 可針對特定時間、區域進行訊息傳播 
2. 在高速移動的車網路中，使訊息可達到高傳遞率 
3. 可針對不同事件而設定不同大小的相關區域 
4. 因應即時網路狀態，動態建立傳遞區域，壓低通訊成本 
5. 可用於傳遞緊急訊息、緊急事故通知 
推廣及運用的價值 
本計劃在車載行動網路上提出行動繞徑協定，使車用環境達到： 
1. 提供更安全舒適的用車環境 
2. 自動化通知緊急訊息，使駕駛人有更多的時間處理意外事件 
3. 即時通知緊急訊息，提昇車輛行駛安全 
4. 動態配置通訊成本，使其他緊急通訊應用依然可以正常運作 
5. 特定時間、區域通知，可預防大型連鎖車禍事件 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
 24 
I. Introduction 
Recent trends in Intelligent Transportation 
Systems show that an increasing number of 
vehicles will be equipped with wireless tran-
sceivers that will enable them to communi-
cate with each other and form a special class 
of wireless networks, known as vehicular ad 
hoc networks or VANETs. High connectivity, 
context-aware topology control, fast IP dis-
tribution strategy are the topic and most im-
portant issues in VANETs. 
In the first and second years of this project, 
we proposed a mobicast routing protocol, ef-
ficient routing protocol, network mobility 
protocol, QoS routing protocol, delay 
bounded routing protocol and network han-
dover scheme on VANETs. 
In the third year of this project, we aim to 
develop A Cross-Layer Partner-Assisted and 
Relay-Assisted Handoff for MIPv6. And also 
investigate protocols for VC2-MAC: A 
Two-Cycle Cooperative MAC Protocol in 
Vehicular Networks. Finally, we imple-
mented a vehicular emergency avoidance 
system to protect drivers‘ safety for accident 
avoidance. The proposed protocols are listed 
in below: 
1. VC2-MAC: A Two-Cycle Cooperative 
MAC Protocol in Vehicular Networks [1]. 
2. A Mobicast Routing Protocol with Car-
ry-and-Forward in Vehicular Ad Hoc 
Networks [2]. 
3. Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (VANETs): 
Status, Results, and Challenges [3]  
4. A Secure Relay-Assisted Handover Pro-
tocol for Proxy Mobile IPv6 in 3GPP LTE 
Networks [4]. 
5. A Cross-Layer Partner-Assisted Handoff 
Scheme for Hierarchical Mobile IPv6 in 
IEEE 802.16e Systems [5]. 
6. Seamless Session Mobility Scheme in He-
terogeneous Wireless Networks [6]. 
7. Protocols and Applications of Cross-layer 
in Mobility Management [7] 
II. Research Objective 
In the third year, we aim to improve 
VC-MAC and propose a VC2-MAC, A 
Two-Cycle Cooperative MAC Protocol in Ve-
hicular Networks [1], and a Mobicast Routing 
Protocol with Carry-and-Forward in Vehicular 
Ad Hoc Networks [2], arrange status, results, 
and challenges in vehicular ad hoc networks 
(VANET) [3], handover protocol for proxy 
mobile IPv6 in 3GPP LTE network [4], 
cross-layer handoff scheme in hierarchical 
mobile IPv6 [5],  seamless session mobility 
scheme in heterogeneous wireless networks 
[6],. We also write a book about protocols and 
applications of cross-layer in mobility man-
agement and applications to help researchers 
to expand the field [7].  
Finally we designed and implemented a ve-
hicular mirror electron reflected subsystem for 
VANETs to protect drivers‘ safety for acci-
dent. 
 
III. Research Method 
Subsequently, we introduce these proposed 
protocols as follows. 
A. Research 
 
1. VC2-MAC: A Two-Cycle Cooperative 
MAC Protocol in Vehicular Networks (This 
result is revised by Computer Communica-
tions, 2011. (2010 SCI IF=0.815)) 
In the result, we propose a new MAC pro-
tocol, called the two-cycle cooperative MAC 
protocol (VC2-MAC), for vehicular networks. 
This work mainly improves an existing 
VC-MAC protocol with the concept of coop-
erative communication for vehicular networks, 
particularly for gateway-downloading scena-
rios. 
The system and assumption are given as 
 26 
higher the ND is, the higher the DSR. The 
DSR was low if the RN rate was high because 
more vehicles exist in the two-hop distance 
from vehicles in . If a vehicle in  
cannot successfully receive the broadcast 
message, the vehicle in  also cannot suc-
cessfully receive the broadcast message. Fig. 
15(b) shows the observed DSR under various 
NDs, with ET fixed at 0.1, 0.5, and 0.9, and 
=100 km/hr. The higher the ND is, the higher 
the DSR. The same DSR are obtained under 
various ET rates because  and  
are equal to PR. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 3 Performance of dissemination success 
rate vs. (a)(b) network density. 
 
2. A Mobicast Routing Protocol with Car-
ry-and-Forward in Vehicular Ad Hoc Net-
works (This result is revised by Telecommu-
nication Systems, 2011 (2010 SCI IF=0.67), 
partial result is presented Fifth International 
Conference on Communications and Net-
working in China (CHINACOM'10), August 
25-27, 2010, Beijing, China) 
  In the result, investigate a new mobicast 
protocol to support comfort applications for a 
highway scenario in vehicular ad-hoc net-
works (VANETs). All vehicles located in a 
geographic zone (denoted as zone of relevance, 
ZOR) at time t, the mobicast routing is to dis-
seminate the data message initiated from a 
specific vehicle to all vehicles which have ev-
er appeared in ZOR at time t. This data disse-
mination must be done before time t+λ 
through the carry-and-forward technique. In 
addition, the temporary network fragmenta-
tion problem is considered in our protocol de-
sign. In addition, the low degree of channel 
utilization is kept to reserve the resource for 
safety applications. 
  The contribution of this result is stated. 
First, A mobicast routing protocol is devel-
oped for supporting comfort applications to 
disseminate the mobicast message with the 
constrained delay time λ . A car-
ry-and-forward technique is used in our pro-
tocol to overcome the temporary network 
fragmentation problem and achieve high dis-
semination successful rate while at the same 
time maintaining a low degree of channel uti-
lization to allow their coexistence; meanwhile, 
the delivery delay is reduced as much as 
possible. 
  In this result, the message delivery tech-
nique is chosen according to the regions. 
Three regions can be identified because  
is a static region and  is moving 
with Ve. Initially, = , where i = 0. 
Then,  is constantly moving with Ve; 
therefore, three regions are identified as fol-
lows. Region 1 is ∩ ( ∪ ) 
 28 
 
Fig. 5 Performance of accumulative packet de-
livery delay vs. distance to Ve. 
3.Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (VANETs): 
Status, Results, and Challenges (This result 
is published by Telecommunication System, 
Vol. 51, Issue 2&3, October/November 2012. 
(2010 SCI IF=0.67)) 
The convergence of computing, telecom-
munications (fixed and mobile), and various 
kinds of services are enabling the deployment 
of different kinds of VANET technologies. In 
the past decade, many VANET projects 
around the world have been undertaken and 
several VANET standards have been devel-
oped to improve vehicle-to-vehicle or ve-
hicle-to-infrastructure communications. In this 
work, we reviewed some of the main areas 
that researchers have focused on in the last 
few years and these include security, routing, 
QoS, and broadcasting techniques and we 
highlighted the most salient results achieved 
to date. We presented a thorough analysis of 
various simulation tools that are available for 
VANET simulations. We hope this taxonomy 
on VANET simulators will be helpful to future 
VANET researchers in choosing the optimal 
VANET simulator best suited for their VA-
NET design goals. Finally, we discussed some 
of the challenges that still need to be ad-
dressed in order to enable the deployment of 
VANET technologies, infrastructures, and ser-
vices cost-effectively, securely, and reliably. 
 
Fig 6. Wireless Access in Vehicular Environ-
ments (WAVE), IEEE 1609, IEEE 802.11p and the 
OSI Reference Model. 
 
4. A Secure Relay-Assisted Handover Pro-
tocol for Proxy Mobile IPv6 in 3GPP LTE 
Systems (This result is accepted by Wireless 
Personal Communications, 2010 (2010 SCI 
IF=0.503), partial result presented at IEEE 
Wireless Communications and Networking 
Conference (WCNC 2010))  
The relay node discovery phase is to dis-
cover RNs by the UE. Because of the RN 
coverage extension of the neighbor eNBs, the 
UE detects and identifies the existence of all 
possible RNs located at neighbor eNBs before 
entering the transmission range of next eNB 
by negotiating with ANDSF+. With the assis-
tance of the RN, the UE pre-perform partial 
layer 3 handoff procedures before the UE en-
tering into the transmission range of target 
eNB. The main task of this phase is to discov-
er the relay node when UE needs to handover 
to the target eNB. A relay discovery scenario 
is given in Fig. 7. The operation of relay node 
discovery is given. 
 
Fig. 7 The relay node registers to ANDSF+. 
 30 
In Figure 11, the solid line circle stands for 
the transmission region. A node in the trans-
mission region can be successfully decoded 
their signals. The dotted line circle stands for 
the sensing region. The sensing region is be-
tween the solid circle and dotted circle. A 
node in the sensing region can sense the sig-
nals but cannot b successfully decoded their 
signals. The details is given in the PS condi-
tions. When the MS moves to the gray area, 
the MS is approaching the PS to communicate 
with the neighbor BS, but the MS is leaving 
the neighbor BS, even scanning two PSs. The 
MS cannot decide the target BS just through 
signal strengths of PSs.  
To make a comparison, HMIPv6 protocol 
and PHMIPv6 protocol with the successful 
and unsuccessful cases are simulated, all of 
these protocols are mainly implemented using 
the network simulator-2 (NS-2).  
To successfully simulate PHMIPv6 protocol 
and HMIPv6 in IEEE 802.16e system, two 
NS-2 modules, NIST Wimax module and mo-
biwan, are adopted in our simulations. Figure 
9 shows the macro-mobility scenario of our 
simuation. For simplifying the scenario, every 
BS is also an access router. Each BS 
represents as a different subnet. A cbr (udp) 
traffic is established from CN to MS. 
Figure 12 illustrates the sequence number 
vs. time of PHMIPv6 and HMIPv6 protocols. 
In our P HMIPv6, two layer 2 handoff triggers 
are used. The first trigger is for the PS discov-
ery to obtain the assistance of PS for the DAD 
operstion. The second trigger is the actual 
layer 2 handoff trigger. The scanning interval 
and interleaving interval are set to 50 frames 
and the scanning iteration is set to 2. In the 
scanning interval, the MS does not receive the 
incoming packets which are buffered in BS 
and the interleaving interval is a rendezvous 
time to be used to receive packets from BS 
and separates the scanning latency. Figure 12 
shows the handoff latency of P HMIPv6 is less 
than that of HMIPv6 since the assistance of 
PS. 
6. Seamless session mobility scheme in he-
terogeneous wireless networks (This result is 
published by International Journal of Com-
munication Systems, Vol. 24, Issue 6, pp. 
789-809, June 2011 (2010 SCI IF=0.229)) 
In the result, in the 3GPP R99 specification, 
the UMTS network can be divided into two 
parts—circuit-switched (CS) and pack-
 
Fig. 10 Handoff decision with assistance of 
partner stations’ signal strengths. 
 
Fig 11. The handoff scenario for simulation. 
 
Fig 12. The performance of sequence num-
ber vs. time. 
 32 
Mobility Management‖. The design of the 
mobility management is the key issue in the 
next-generation mobile networks. It is impor-
tant to provide seamless service switching for 
a mobile station (MS) or a mobile node (MN) 
with the uninterrupted services during an 
IP-based session between different access 
networks, where IP convergence has led to the 
co-existence of several IP-based wireless 
access technologies and the emergence of next 
generation technologies. Many research re-
sults of cross-layer design in mobility recently 
had done to minimize the data loss rate and 
delay time during switching so that users do 
not experience obvious and unacceptable in-
terruptions during the handoff. The cross-layer 
design is the important approach for the mo-
bility management. This chapter mainly in-
troduces and reviews existing protocols and 
then discusses the possible interest and useful 
applications of cross-layer in mobility man-
agement. 
To solve this problem, we proposed a novel 
methodology for reducing the scanning latency. 
The proposed protocol allows an OSV to accumu-
late the physical layer information of RVs. The 
OSV broadcasts NTM (network topology message) 
to DVs using predefined broadcast channels upon 
acquiring the physical information of neighboring 
RVs. This NTM enables a DV to know which 
channel to listen when it enters the transmission 
range of the target RV on the front. According to 
NTM, a DV can adjust its physical setting, such as 
the channel, when it receives NTM, rather than 
waiting and receiving the neighbor advertisement 
message from the target RV. By comparing blocks 
of recorded time and velocities, the DV identifies 
the nearest RV on the front. The interaction of the 
handover procedure at MAC layer with position 
and channel information at physical layer delivers 
an interesting and efficient solution 
 
B. Implementation 
 
1. The Mirror Electron Reflected System on 
Vehicular 
The Mirror Electron Reflected System is 
developing in this project to improve the driv-
ers‘ safety on the vehicular networks. 
In recent years, the spread of communica-
tion services extends from a fixed wired net-
work to mobile wireless network since wire-
less communication technologies and mobile 
communications equipment (such as mobile 
phones, personal digital assistants, laptops, 
tablet PCs, etc.) are popularized. The vehicu-
lar ad hoc networks (VANETs) are the prom-
ising and important networking techniques for 
building the Intelligent Transportation System 
(ITS).  
A system is composed of vehicles, while 
each one has wireless communication device 
to transmit and receive alert messages for 
steep turns and appearing opposite direction 
cars for information service. Such network not 
only can improve traffic safety efficiently but 
also provide the comfort applications for 
driving unfriendly road by multi-hop commu-
nications among vehicles. Therefore, the mir-
ror electron reflected system is implemented 
 
Fig 16. A mobility example in a CR-LTE network. 
 34 
China (CHINACOM'10), August 25-27, 
2010, Beijing, China.) 
[3]  Sherali Zeadally, Ray Hunt, Yuh-Shyan 
Chen, Angela Irwin, and Aamir Hassan, 
"Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (VANETs): 
Status, Results, and Challenges", Tele-
communication System, Vol. 51, Issue 
2&3, October/November 2012. (Publica-
tion online: December 9 2010) 
[4] Yuh-Shyan Chen,Tong-Ying Juang, and 
Yao-Tsu Lin, "A Secure Relay-Assisted 
Handover Protocol for Proxy Mobile 
IPv6 in 3GPP LTE Networks," Wireless 
Personal Communications, 2010 (ac-
cepted), partial result presented at IEEE 
Wireless Communications and Network-
ing Conference (WCNC 2010)) 
[5]  Yuh-Shyan Chen and Kun-Lin Wu, "A 
Cross-Layer Partner-Assisted Handoff 
Scheme for Hierarchical Mobile IPv6 in 
IEEE 802.16e Systems," Wireless Com-
munications and Mobile Computing, Vol. 
11, Issue 4, pp. 522-541, April 2011. 
[6]  Kuan-Lin Chiu, Yuh-Shyan Chen, and 
Ren Hung Hwang, "Seamless Session 
Mobility Scheme in Heterogeneous 
Wireless Networks," International Jour-
nal of Communication Systems, Vol. 24, 
Issue 6, pp. 789-809, June 2011. 
[7] Yuh-Shyan Chen and Yun-Wei Lin, "Pro-
tocols and Applications of Cross-layer in 
Mobility Management" a Book Chapter 
in Using Cross-Layer Techniques for 
Communication Systems', (edited by Prof. 
H F Rashvand and Prof. Y S Kavian), IGI 
Global, 2012. 
 
 36 
技術特點 
1. 在低密度的車輛環境，維持連線品質 
2. 可減少換手的延遲時間 
3. 可用於傳遞緊急訊息、緊急事故通知 
推廣及運用的價值 
1. 提供更好的連線品質 
2. 可適應更多變的隨意車載網路 
3. 更降低封包遺失及延遲時間 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
 
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳裕賢 計畫編號：97-2221-E-305-003-MY3 
計畫名稱：先進車用網路和車載資通訊服務--子計畫二: 車間通訊之媒體存取協定與車用移動管理 
量化 
成果項目 
實際已達
成數（被接
受或已發
表） 
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：如數
個計畫共同成果、成
果列為該期刊之封面
故事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100% 江依庭, 呂昇達, 姜文林 
博士生 1 0 100% 林勻蔚 
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國外 論文著作 期刊論文 6 0 100% 篇 [1] Yuh-Shyan Chen, 
Senior Member, IEEE, 
and Kang-Wei 
Hung, ’’VC2-MAC: A 
Two-Cycle Cooperative 
MAC Protocol in 
Vehicular 
Networks,’’ 
Computer 
Communications, 2011. 
(2010 SCI IF=0.815).
[2] Yuh-Shyan Chen and 
Yun-Wei Lin, ’’ A 
Mobicast Routing 
Protocol with 
June 2011. 
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 0 100% 
[1] Yuh-Shyan Chen, 
Yun-Wei Lin, and 
SingLing Lee, ’’A 
Mobicast Routing 
Protocol with 
Carry-and-Forward in 
Vehicular Ad Hoc 
Networks,’’ 2010 
Fifth International 
Conference on 
Communications and 
Networking in China 
(CHINACOM'10), August 
25-27, 2010, Beijing, 
China. 
[2] Yuh-Shyan Chen, 
Yun-Wei Lin, Yao-Tsu 
Lin, and Tong-Ying 
Juang, ’’A Secure 
Relay-Assisted 
Handover Protocol for 
Proxy Mobile IPv6 in 
3GPP LTE Networks,’’ 
IEEE Wireless 
Communications and 
Networking Conference 
(WCNC 2010), Sydney, 
Australia, April 
18-21, 2010. 
[3] Yuh-Shyan Chen, 
Kau-Lin Chiu, Kun-Lin 
Wu, and Tong-Ying 
Juang, ’’A 
Cross-Layer 
Partner-Assisted 
Handoff Scheme for 
Hierarchical Mobile 
IPv6 in IEEE 802.16e 
Systems,’’ IEEE 
Wireless 
Communications and 
Networking Conference 
(WCNC 2008), Las 
Vegas, Nevada, USA, 
Mar 31, 2008. 
專書 1 0 100% 章/本 Yuh-Shyan Chen and 
