 2
calculations of finite-difference time-domain 
(FDTD) method further verified the 
existence of SPs. The TE and TM waves 
have quite different near-field distribution. In 
addition, the nanowire array shows a λ/4 
phase difference between TE and TM wave 
as measured from a Mach-Zehnder 
interferometry. Such phase retardation is 
very useful for making an ultrathin λ/4 plate. 
In our experiments, the extinction ratio of the 
nanowire-based λ/4 plate reaches up to 34. 
The maximum retardation occurs at the 
wavelength close to 1.4 times of the period 
of nanowires.      
 
EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS 
 
1. Fabrication 
The nanoswire arrays are fabricated by 
means of left-off process. The cleaned 
substrates spin coated with a 300nm thick 
poly- (methylmethacrylate) (PMMA) The 
electron beam lithography is employed to 
generate the periodic nanowires patterns on 
the PMMA, and its periods are given by 
400nm, 500nm and 600nm. After chemically 
dissolving the PMMA film regions exposed 
to electron beam, the remaining PMMA film 
is used as a mask for the next step, depositing 
metal layers. The substrates are load into 
electron gun evaporator to deposit 5nm thick 
titanium as an adhesion layer and a 50nm 
thick Gold. In the control sample, Nickel is 
deposited instead of Au.  Figs. 1 show the 
AFM image and the crossed-section of a gold 
nanowire array. The width of wires was 
100nm and the height was about 50nm.  
 
H
ei
gh
t (
nm
)
Distance ( m)μ0 0. 5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
 
(a)     (b) 
Fig. 1 AFM image of a 500-period 100nm-wide 
gold array. (a) AFM (b) Crossed-section plot. 
 
2. FDTD calculations 
The FDTD calculations were performed 
using a commercial product (BeamPro, 
FullWave 3.0). The nanowire array was 
composed of Au wires of 100nm radius and a 
500nm period. The refractive index of the 
glass was 1.5 and the incident wavelength 
was 650nm. Fig. 2(a) shows the calculated 
optical field distribution at the XZ plane for 
the TE mode. It is obvious that light was 
confined in the air-gap. No fields are found 
on the metallic surface due to the boundary 
condition. Fig. 2(b) shows the calculated 
distribution at the XZ plane for the TM mode. 
Most fields localized on boundary of the gold 
film. The fields are known to be the SPs that 
propagated along the metal-air interface with 
a polarization perpendicular to the metal 
surface. It is noted that there SPs has a 
refractive index larger than 1. It results in a 
time delay for the TM mode. The delay was 
more profound when the SPs are in 
resonance on this periodic nanostructure.          
 
(a)    (b) 
Fig. 2 Optical power distribution on a 500-period 
100nm-wide gold array. (a) TE mode (b) TM 
mode. 
 4
excitation and resonance of SPs. Gold and 
Silver are known good metals for SPs., while 
Ni had poor SPs propagation property.  
    
 
 
Fig. 4 The Mach-Zehnder interference for 
measuring the phase different between TE and TM 
modes.   
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 5 The line profile of dark fringes. The 
polarization is varied from 0o to 90o with 10o 
interval, and the period of nanowires is 500nm. (a) 
Gold nanowire array (b) Ni nanowire array.     
 
By means of observing the shift of fringes, 
the phase shift can be figured out. The 
conversion formula is (x/X)*2π, where the X 
is the pitch of dark fringes and x is the 
position shift which is related to θ=0o. Fig. 6 
shows phase retardations with different 
polarizations for the gold and Ni samples. 
The TE mode is defined as 0o. It can be seen 
that TM mode (90o) has a 1.5π phase ahead 
than that of TE mode. It indicates a 0.5π 
phase delay for the TM mode. The delay is 
attributed to the resonance of SPs in the gold 
nanowire array.     
 
Fig. 6 The phase retardation vs. polarization state. 
(Open square is Au nanowires with 500nm grating 
constant, and open circle is Ni nanowires with 
500nm grating constant) 
 
5. Spectroscopic measurement 
From Fig. 6, TM polarization (θ=90o) has 
either 1.5π phase beyond or 0.5π phase delay 
in comparison with TE polarization (θ=0o). 
This result indicates that periodic Au 
nanowires have a function which is similar to 
λ/4 waveplate. To verify this nanowire array 
can be used as a waveplate, we measured the 
transmission spectrum through crossed 
polarizers (P1 and P2) with the nanowire 
array placed between. P1 and P2 are always 
orthogonal, there is not any light can be 
passed through both, unless the polarization 
state is changed between. We predict that the 
gold nanowires can be acted as a λ/4 
wavelength retarder, therefore the 
transmission maximum will occurs at θ=45o 
according to the Jones matrix calculations. 
Fig. 7 shows the measured transmission 
spectra at the different rotation angle of the 
