 2
DESIGN AND FABRICATION OF THE SPR SENSOR CHIPS 
The sketch diagram of the SPR sensor chip with a liquid-flowing channel from the top view is shown in Fig. 1. 
The structure has been optimized to achieve high-sensitivity [5]. The dashed line indicates the underlying waveguide 
which is covered with upper cladding layers or protecting layers. The pure-white part within the center region of the 
figure represents the etched space, forming a liquid-flowing channel for injecting/releasing the biochemical liquid 
samples. 
Fig. 2 shows the cross section of one complete sensing channel on our chip. The front and rear symmetric 
waveguides with upper claddings can prevent the light leaking out when we add a high-index O-ring or an additional 
liquid-flowing channel structure on it. The recess structure in the sensing region can provide liquid-flowing channels 
for injecting the sample solutions in it. We set four pairs of channels with different channel widths of Wc = 20, 60, 
100, 140 µm, and eight channels were designed in total.  
In the lateral y direction, the light is confined by the ridge structure, which can avoid the scattering loss caused 
by the rough sidewall of the channels after etching process of the core layer. The threshold channel width for 
supporting the lateral single-mode propagation also can be increased. Based on the effective-index method, the 
channel width needs to be narrower than 35 µm to support single-mode propagation.  
All the devices were fabricated in the Nano Facility Center (NFC) at National Chiao Tung University. In the 
fabrication process of the sensor chip, we used the PECVD (belonging to National Nano Device Laboratories and 
located in NFC) to grow SiO2 and Si3N4 layers, the e-gun evaporation to coat MgF2 layers, and the sputtering to coat 
Au metal layer. Fig. 4 shows the flow chart of fabrication process of the ARROW-B SPR sensor chip. Fig. 4 shows 
the typical SEM photos of the cross section of the fabricated chip. 
 
CHARACTERIZATION OF THE SENSOR CHIP 
The setup of the optical measurement system and liquid-flowing system for testing the ARROW-B SPR sensor 
chip is shown in Fig. 5. Fig. 6 shows photos of the measurement system.  
In the optical system, we used a He-Ne laser with the wavelength λ= 0.633 µm as the light source. The system 
first filtered out the TE-polarized wave by a polarizer, then the remaining TM-polarized light beam was focused to 
the input port of the waveguide channel by an objective lens (20X). At the output port, the output beam was focused 
by another objective lens (10X). Then a polarizer was introduced to guarantee the pure TM-polarized light, and an 
iris diaphragm was used to filter out the scattered light noise. 
In the liquid-flowing system, we used a micropump as the pumping source of the liquid samples. The pumping 
liquid flowed to the SPR sensor chip through a plastic tube with a 1-mm internal diameter. For getting an airtight 
liquid-flowing channel on the sensor chip, we added an O-ring on it and sandwiched them with a plastic slice. The 
biochemical liquid samples can be injected into the plastic tube by using syringes at a sample injection window made 
of rubber. Therefore, this liquid-flowing system can used for real-time measurements.  
The liquid-flowing system takes 1 minute to flow the reagents into the sensing region. The items below show 
the procedure of measurement experiment.  
1. Flowing PBS solution for 3 minutes.  
2. Flowing 10 mM MPA solution for 1 minute and stop for 1 hour.  
3. Flowing PBS solution for 3 minutes.  
4. Flowing 0.2 M EDC + 0.35 M NHS mixed solution for 1 minute and stop for 30 minutes.  
5. Flowing PBS solution for 3 minutes.  
6. Flowing 1U/µl HRP solution for 1 minute and stop for 12 hours.  
7. Flowing PBS solution for 3 minutes.  
8. Flowing sodium acetate, ABTS and H2O2 mixed solution for 1 minute and stop for 10 minutes.  
9. Repeat step 7 and 8 for repeatability test.  
Figs. 7 to 9 show the measurement results of our sensor chip. In Fig. 7, the power shows a increasing trend 
during the MPA binding process and then shows a little variation. When EDC and NHS mixed solution was in the 
sensing region, the power increased firstly and then dropped significantly 11 minutes later. This can be regarded as a 
saturation state which means all the MPA molecules binding on the sensor surface are activated. The longer reaction 
time does not show a better result.  
 4
 
 
  
Fig. 3  The flow chart of fabrication process of the ARROW-B SPR sensor chip. 
 6
 
Fig. 7  Measurement results of a SPR sensor chip, part 1. 
 
Fig. 7  Measurement results of a SPR sensor chip, part 2. 
 
Fig. 7  Measurement results of a SPR sensor chip, part 3. 
SUMMARY 
The characteristics of a SPR sensor utilizing an ARROW-B structure have been investigated. The theoretical 
analysis of an Au-coated ARROW-B SPR sensor has been carried out by employing the transfer matrix method and 
the eigenmode expansion. The parameters of the sensor structure have been also designed for aqueous biochemical 
detection. A buffer layer of MgF2 is added to reduce the unnecessary power consumption caused by Au film and 
SPR phenomenon. After that, the Si3N4 adjusting layer is adopted to optimize the SPR sensor in the interested 
environment. The waveguide channels in front and rear of the SPR sensing region utilize a symmetric ARROW-B 
structure, which has both upper and lower claddings, and therefore has well-shielding characteristics of the outmost 
environment. All parameters of the ARROW-B SPR sensor chip and the fabrication process of the chip are reported. 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內研究生出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                              2007 年 12 月  1 日 
報告人姓名  
林俊廷 
 
就讀校院
（科系所）
                     ■博士班研究生 
交大光電所 
                     □碩士班研究生 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2007/11/21-2007/11/23 
 
義大利威尼斯 
本會核定
補助文號
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)第 6屆 WSEAS 協會所舉辦工程領域上關於系統科學與模擬的國際會議論文 
 (英文) 6th WSEAS International Conference on SYSTEM SCIENCE and SIMULATION 
in ENGINEERING (ICOSSSE '07) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)採用平面波導式凹面光柵元件的 16 調頻道光塞取多工器 
 (英文) 16-Channel Optical Add-Drop Multiplexer Consisting of a Planar 
Waveguide Concave Grating 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內研究生出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                                 98 年 05 月 12 日 
報告人姓名  
呂明峰 
 
就讀校院
（科系所）
                     ■博士班研究生 
國立交通大學電子研究所 
                     □碩士班研究生 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2007/11/21-23 
義大利威尼斯 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 
95-2221-E-159-015 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)WSEAS 第 6 屆系統科學與工程模擬研討會 
 (英文) 6th WSEAS International Conference on SYSTEM SCIENCE and SIMULATION in ENGINEERING 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)孔洞光子晶體多模干涉式 1對 2分波多工器之設計 
 (英文) Design of a Multimode Interference-based 1×2 Wavelength-Division- 
Demultiplexer on an Air-hole Photonic Crystal 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
WSEAS第6屆系統科學與工程模擬研討會於2007年11月21日至23日於義大利威尼斯舉
行。參加人員主要來自歐洲和亞洲各國和光電通訊研究發展相關之人士，內容主要探討有關
光電領域的元件設計及理論的發展。本人於11月19日搭乘國泰航空至威尼斯，下禢於會議舉
辦之飯店，口頭發表論文時間被排定在11月22日的14:30-14:45。 
此會議之議題包含有1. Optical Networks and Applications、2. Transmission Systems and 
Technologies 、3. Optical Fibers, Cables, and Fiber Devices 、4. Optical Active Devices and 
Modules 、5. Optical Passive Components and Modules。會議過程緊奏，儀器參展的廠商踴躍。
能參與盛會，受益良多。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
此次會議期間，除了將本人研究成果向與會先進提出簡報外，亦聆聽其他各國的研究成
果發表。在photonic crystal此一session，除了本人是從台灣來的之外，其他報告者都是歐洲
各大學的研究者，研究領域偏向光子晶體在光電主動元件上的應用，很多都是非常先進的想
法，對日後研究工作及思考上應有相當大的幫助。  
參加此研討會給本人磨練的機會，尤其是在語文表達能力上及專業知識上提供學習的方
向，亦能有機會於會議期間與各國先進研究交流。  
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
無 
 
