I 
 
以降雨行為預測山崩時間和機率之研究 
Predicting the Probability of Landslide and its Occurrence Time 
Based on Rainfall  
廖洪鈞 1 
H. J. Liao 
1台灣科技大學教授 
 
摘要 
對整治山區道路而言，降雨引致之邊坡滑落是個必須重視的問題。為提供一個可以決定邊
坡整治優先次序之機制，本研究結合了貝氏分類理論、高斯過程、以及滑坡和降雨歷史資
料等，建議出一個可以評估道路上邊坡穩定之模式。所需之參數包括邊坡之外貌資料、集
水區面積、地質資料、坡面植生覆蓋情況、和降雨資料等。其中，降雨為滑坡之驅動因子。
此外，因每一邊坡均有其特有之滑坡機率和72小時累積雨量之關係，可用來定義驅動滑坡
之門檻雨量因子，藉由門檻雨量因子可估算在某一降雨情況下，邊坡產生滑動之可能性。
因此透過每一邊坡所特有之門檻雨量因子，即可建立出山區道路沿線邊坡整治之優先次序
評估機制。 
關鍵詞: 山區道路、滑坡、降雨、整治、優先次序 
 
Abstract 
Rainfall induced slope failure has been a major issue for the mountain road mitigation. 
To determine the mitigation priority of the roadside slopes, a model to evaluate the stability 
of  the  upslopes  is  proposed  in  this  paper.  This  model  is  developed  using  Bayesian 
classification  theorem,  historical  rainfall  and  landslide  data,  and  an  artificial  intelligence 
skill  ‐  Gaussian  process.  Parameters  needed  for  this  model  include  the  slope  features, 
catchment  area,  lithology,  vegetation  coverage  and  rainfall  data.  Among  the  parameters, 
rainfall is considered to be the triggering factor of landslide in this study. In addition, each 
slope has also demonstrated a unique  landslide probability  relationship with  the 72‐hour 
accumulated  rainfalls.  Such  a  relationship  is  adopted  to  define  a  threshold  rainfall  factor 
which is used as an index to estimate the likelihood of landslide occurrence under a rainfall 
event. Using  the  threshold  rainfall  factor  of  each  slope,  a  priority  list  is  proposed  for  the 
mitigation of roadside slopes along the Alishan mountain road in Taiwan. 
Keywords: mountain road, landslide, rainfall, mitigation, priority list  
1 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Roadside slope landslide is a common phenomenon in mountain area during typhoons 
or heavy rainfall events. When a landslide occurs, it usually blocks the road and 
interrupts the traffic. Therefore, the issue really concerned about by the road 
maintenance department is whether a roadside landslide will occur or not. However, 
to monitor the performance (such as deformation, change of groundwater level, etc.) 
of slopes along a mountain road with instruments has its practical difficulty 
considering the cost and effort involved. Instead, some features which can be 
collected from field reconnaissance trip and aerial photos or Digital Terrain Model 
(DTM) are adopted to describe the topographic condition and the road construction 
practice of the roadside slopes. These features are input to the proposed model to 
estimate the possibility of slope failure along the mountain road. So, the problem to be 
dealt with here is simplified to a failed or not failed situation. This method proposed 
here is to estimate the likelihood of roadside slope failure under a rainfall event. 
Based on the instability potential of slopes, a priority list for slope mitigation can be 
established. 
The meandering nature of mountain road is a good indication of the situation that 
mountain road is constructed in accordance with the geological and topographical 
features of mountains. To keep the road alignment and meet the site conditions, 
mountain road was often constructed by cutting into the slope or filling up the valley. 
As a result, a mountain road is inherently prone to landslides and sensitive to rainfall. 
For a given mountain road, the geological and topographical features are inherent. 
Rainfall can be the major feature (but may not be the sole feature) to trigger a 
landslide. So, the stability of roadside slopes is closely related to the characteristic of 
a rainfall event, such as the rainfall intensity and duration. In addition, the antecedent 
rainfall threshold that actually triggered a landslide should also be accounted. So far, 
many studies have been done to determine the minimum rainfall threshold which is 
related to the antecedent rainfall, rainfall intensity, duration and accumulated rainfall 
(Au 1993; Sasaki et al. 2001;Aleotti 2004; Ibsen and Casagli 2004; Jan et al. 2004; 
Pedrozzi 2004; Baurm et al. 2005; Chen et al. 2005; Lee et al. 2005; Godt et al. 2006; 
Inagaki and Sadohara 2006). Recently, logistic regression probability based model is 
used to determine the minimum rainfall threshold by using rainfall intensity and/or 
duration as explanatory variables. Among the logistic regression probability based 
models, some considered only the rainfall condition (Chang et al., 2007) and some 
3 
 
formations, about 90 percent of outcrop exposed in this area belongs to Nanchuang 
formation. Nanchuang formation is an interstratified formation which consists of thick 
sandstone layer, sandstones/shale interbedded layer, and shale layer. 
Liao et al. (2005) indicated, after Chi-Chi earthquake, the rainfall induced damages 
along Alishn mountain road can be classified into three major categories: (1) up-slope 
failure, (2) road base failure, and (3) washed-away of road base. During Toraji, Nari 
and Mindulle typhoons, about 80 percent of damage belongs to up-slope failure. So 
only the up-slope (including cut slope and nature slope) failure is investigated in this 
paper. Fill slope failure which normally triggered by the initial failure of retaining 
structure will be left for the second phase study on this subject. 
Indeed, factors or dominant components that influence the stability of slopes can be 
very different between soil slope and rock slope. For the up-slopes along the Alishan 
mountain road, the slope covering material basically is a mixture of residual soil and 
rock pieces with various sizes. When landslide occurs, the covering material (soil and 
rock pieces) on the slopes may be falling and/or sliding down and blocks the road. It 
is a shallow type landslide but practically it is not easy to distinguish a soil slope 
failure from a rock slope failure at the landslide site. To simplify the problem, only 
the issue of landslide is studied here. No attempt was made to further subdivide the 
landslides into soil or rock type. Either type will block the road. So the proposed 
mitigation priority is very much localized and is to be used to prevent or mitigate the 
landslides along the Alishan mountain road only. 
 
2.2 Slope Database 
As mentioned previously, most damage along Alishan mountain road belongs to 
up-slope failure during heavy rainfall. Totally, 86 slope cases including 38 up-slope 
failed cases and 48 not-failed cases are studied in this paper and listed in Appendix A. 
The term of a failed slope case means that a landslide occurred and blocked the road 
during rainfall. The landslide scale can be approximately estimated by the volume of 
debris removed from the site (Appendix A). The volume of debris removed varies 
from tens to thousands of cubic meters. All slopes had experienced Toraji, Nari and 
Mindulle typhoons. Several basic features of slopes are carefully selected as the 
influence features based on the past experience of slope response to typhoons in the 
area. Some features (such as slope aspect, slope angle and height) were obtained from 
the field reconnaissance. Other features (such as catchment area) can be determined 
with the visual aids from DTM. Entirely ten influencing features, including rainfall, 
5 
 
road construction activities. The change of slope angle is defined as the difference 
of slope angle before and after slope cutting as shown in Figure 3. Both of them 
are determined from the field reconnaissance. 
(C) Triggering feature 
As stated previously, rainfall can be the major feature to trigger a landslide. It has 
been concerned by some researchers that the rainfall in mountain area of Taiwan 
may be affected by the factors like topography, elevation, and wind direction. 
However, no clear trend could be observed from the spatial distribution of 
typhoon-induced rainfall in mountain area of Taiwan based on ten typhoons 
records between 1996 and 2005 (Chen, 2006). A better alternative to estimate the 
rainfall characteristic along Alishan mountain road is based on the rainfall data 
collected from the weather stations set up by the Central Weather Bureau (CWB) 
in the Alishan mountain area together with the Inverse Distance Weighting (IDW) 
method. To verify the suitability of the rainfall data generated above, five 
automatic recording rain gauges were installed along Alishan mountain road and 
rainfall data from eight typhoons, which attacked Taiwan between 2005 and 2007, 
were recorded. The comparison result indicates that an elevation modification is 
needed to make the IDW interpolated results be more close to the real rainfall 
data. 
A rainfall index, MA72, derived from the maximum 24-hour accumulated rainfall 
and 72-hour accumulated rainfall is selected to represent the triggering factor in 
this paper (Figure 4). To demonstrate the procedure of obtaining the MA72 value 
from a rainfall event, the following example is provided (Figure 4): Firstly, define 
the MA72 with different moving 72-hour time slots such as time slot A as 
(MA72)A=670 mm; time slot B as (MA72)B= 860 mm; and time slot C as 
(MA72)C= 860 mm. time slot A does not cover the maximum 24-hour accumulated 
rainfall of this rainfall event. But both time slots B and C cover the maximum 
24-hour accumulated rainfall. So both the (MA72)B and (MA72)C are the same and 
equal to a value of 860 mm. Either (MA72)B or (MA72)C can be chosen to 
represent the MA72 of this rainfall event. 
Since there is only one maximum 24-hour accumulated rainfall, the value of MA72 
can be treated as a constant for a complete rainfall event. It should be noted that 
MA72 and the greatest 72-hour accumulated rainfall may not occur at the same. To 
avoid confusion, the term of “observed MA72” will be used to represent the MA72 
of a slope case for a complete rainfall event. 
7 
 
While a Gaussian process (GP) two-way classification method is used to establish the 
landslide probability model. GP is a stochastic process which is developed in artificial 
intelligence and machine learning field to deal with non-parametric regression and 
classification problems (Gibbs 1997; Neal 1997; MacKay 1998; Williams and Barber 
1998; Williams 2002; Rasmussen 2003). It is equivalent to the neural networks with 
an infinite number of nodes whose weights are Gaussian random variables. It requires 
infinite number of parameters to implement an infinite-node neural network. However, 
only a few parameters are needed when Gaussian process is applied (Neal 1997). The 
aim of the two-way classifier is to predict the probability of corresponding class label 
which is a function of a given training data (D) and an input x. This can be 
accomplished by predicting a class label, or by estimating the posterior probability for 
class P(t=1|D, x) and for the failed slope. For the not failed slope, P(t=0|D, x) is equal 
to 1- P(t=1|D, x). 
4. ANALYSIS OF RESULTS 
4.1 Determination of Dominant Components 
All the 86 slope cases are adopted to evaluate the ability of the probability model to 
predict the stability status of slopes. The prediction error of the adopted model is 
estimated by the leave-one-out (LOO) procedure which is done by taking one set of 
data out from the training data sets and leave it out as the target for prediction. 
To transfer the natural and man-made features (Table 1) to the dominant components 
with the least prediction error, the first four principal components (with the variance 
greater than 0.9) of PCA analysis will be adopted. 
Including the four dominant components and observed MA72, there are five “inputs” 
needed for the model. The “target” of the model is equal to “0” for the not-failed 
slopes or “1” for the failed slopes. If the calculated landslide probability P(t=1|D, x) is 
greater than 0.5 for a failed slope, then it is considered to be correctly predicted. 
Otherwise, it is considered to be incorrectly predicted. On the other hand, if the 
P(t=1|D, x) is less than 0.5 for a not-failed case, it is considered to be correctly 
predicted or incorrectly predicted when P(t=1|D, x) is larger than 0.5. The analysis 
results show that only four out of 38 failed cases are incorrectly predicted. The 
prediction error is equal to 11%, Having such a low error rate, the four dominant 
components and the observed MA72 are selected to be used in the landslide 
probability model. 
9 
 
rainfall record. When the MA72 reaches 470mm, landslide will already happen at 
Site-A. But Site-B is just about reaching fpB = 0.5; Site-C remains very stable, fpC is 
still equal to null. It shows that this model can well simulate the slopes which have 
different degrees of capacity to endure a rainfall event and can be applied to 
determine the rainfall threshold and to set up a mitigation priority list for roadside 
slopes. 
As the previously defined, the correct prediction of a failed slope is determined when 
the estimated fp [=P(t=1|D, x)] is greater than 0.5 at the observed MA72, where fp = 
0.5 is used to express a slope approaching a high landslide potential level. The MA72 
corresponding to fp = 0.50 on the LPC-curve is defined as the threshold rainfall (TA72) 
which is used to describe the situation whether or not a slope is approaching the level 
of high landslide potential. 
Figure 8 shows the calculated rainfall threshold TA72s at the location of observed 
slope cases along the Alishan mountain road. The observed MA72 from rainfall 
records of all slope cases are also shown in Figure 8 where the solid and hollow dots 
indicate the failed and not-failed slope cases respectively. For all failed cases, the 
observed MA72 is greater than TA72. But MA72s are less than TA72s for most of the 
not-failed cases. Also, the TA72s of failed cases are less than those of not-failed cases. 
The slopes located between chainage 21K to 32K and chainage 53K to 60K have low 
TA72 values (from 250mm to 500mm approximately). Comparing to slopes located in 
other chainages of the road, the roadside slopes in these two chainages are particularly 
more vulnerable during rainfall. So slopes located in these two chainages of the road 
should be placed on top of the mitigation list. Among then, slopes with TA72 close to 
250mm are more urgent to be upgraded than slopes with the TA72 value close to 
500mm. Thus, Figure 8 can provide a basis for determining a slope mitigation priority 
list for the Alishan mountain road. 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
Based on the results of this study, it has been found that the accumulated rainfall over 
a 72-hour period (MA72) and corresponds to the peak value of recorded 24-hour 
accumulated rainfall can be used as a rainfall index for evaluating the landslide 
probability of a slope. Using the model established in this study, the landslide 
probability characteristic curve (LPC-curve) of each slope can be obtained. So can the 
rainfall threshold of MA72 (i.e., TA72) corresponding to landslide probability of 0.5. 
TA72 reflects the influence of natural and man-made features on the stability of 
11 
 
x = vectors for inputs 
 
REFERENCES 
Aleotti, P. (2004). “A warning system for rainfall-induced shallow failures.” Eng. 
Geol., 73(3-4), 247-265. 
Au, S. W. C. (1993). “Rainfall and slope failure in Hong Kong.” Eng. Geol., 
36,141-147. 
Baum, R. L., Coe, J. A., Godt, J.W., Harp, E. L., Reid, M. E., Savage, W. Z., Schulz, 
W. H., Brien, D. L., Chleborad, A. F., McKenna, J. P., and Michael, J. A. (2005). 
“Regional landslide-hazard assessment for Seattle, Washington, USA.” Landslides, 2, 
266–279. 
Chang, K.-T., Chiang, S.-H., and Lei, F. (2008). “Analysing the relationship between 
typhoon-triggered landslides and critical rainfall conditions.” Earth Surf. Process. 
Landforms, 33, 1261–1271. Chen C.-Y., Chen T.-C., Yu F.-C., Yu W.-H., Tseng C.-C. 
(2005). “Rainfall duration and debris-flow initiated studies for real-time monitoring.” 
Environ. Geol., 47, 715–724. 
Chen, T.-Z. (2006). “Analysis of the spatial distribution of typhoon-induced rainfall 
inTaiwan mountains using Gaussian processes.” Master thesis, National Taiwan 
University of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan. 
Ching, J., Liao, H.-J., and Lee, J.-Y. (2009). “Predicting Probabilities of Landslides 
along a Mountain Road in Taiwan.” Geotechnique. (Accepted for publication) 
Christian, J. T. (2004). “Geotechnical engineering reliability: how well do we know 
what we are doing?.” J. Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Eng. ASCE, 130(10), 
985-1003. 
Dai, F. C. and Lee, C. F. (2003). “A spatiotemporal probabilistic modeling of 
strom-induced shallow landsliding using aerial photographs and logistic regression.” 
Earth Surf. Process. Landforms 28, 527-545. 
13 
 
Liao, H. J., Lin, Y. C., Liao, J. T. (2001) “Evaluation of slope stability with 
discriminant analysis.” Proc., 14th Southeast Asian Geotech. Conf., Hong Kong, 
Balkema, 1131-1134. 
Liao, H. J., Ching, J. Y., Chao, W. C., and Chen, S. M. (2005) “A process for 
evaluating the probability of slope failure along Alishan mountain road in central 
Taiwan.” Proc. Int. Seminar on Slope Disasters in Geomorphological / Geotech.Eng., 
Kobe, Japan, Sept. 10, 2005, 85-95. 
Lin, C. S. (2007) “Principal Component Analysis and Canonical Correlation 
analysis.” Multivariate Analysis, 5th Ed.,. Tunghua, Taipei, 289-325. [in Chinese] 
Lin, M. L., Liao, H. J., and Ueng, T. S. (2000). “The geotechnical hazard caused by 
Chi-Chi earthquake.” Proc. International Workshop on the September 21, 
1999Chi-Chi Earthquake, Taichung, Taiwan, June 30, 2000, 113-123. 
Liu, H. C., Fong, C.C.K., and Chuang, T. Y. (1989). “Geology along the 
Chukou-Tataka section, new Cross-Island highway, central Taiwan.” Bull. Central 
Geol. Survey, 5, 19-29 [in Chinese] 
MacKay, D. J. C. (1998). “Introduction to Gaussian Processes.” Neural networks 
andmachine learning, vol. 168 of NATO ASI series. M. C. Bishop, ed., Springer, 
Berlin, 133-165. 
Neal, R. M. (1997) “Monte Carlo implementation of Gaussian process models for 
Bayesian regression and classification.” Technical Report No. 9702, Department of 
computer science, University of Toronto. 
Pearson, K. (1901) “On lines and planes of closest fit to systems of points in spaces.” 
Philosophical magazine, 2(2), 559-572. 
Pedrozzi, G. (2004). “Triggering of landslides in Canton Ticino (Swizerland) and 
prediction by the rainfall intensity and duration method.” Bull. Eng. Geol. Environ., 
63(4), 281-291. 
15 
 
Table 1 Influencing features on slope stability and their variation range (after Liao et 
al. 2005) 
Table 1 Influencing features on slope stability and their variation range 
(after Liao et al. 2005) 
Influencing 
Categories 
Influencing Features Un
it 
Ranges 
N
at
ur
al
 fe
at
ur
e Topograp
hy 
Slope aspect de
gree 
0~360 
Slope angle de
gree 
0~90 
Slope height m >0 
Road curvature 
1/
m 
-∞~+∞ 
Geology Type of geological strata -- 1~5 
Vegetatio
n coverage 
Thickness of canopy cover m >0 
Hydraulic 
condition 
Catchment area m2 >0 
Man-made feature 
- Road construction 
Height of toe cutting m >0 
Change of slope angle de
gree 
>0 
Triggering feature - 
Rainfall 
Accumulated rainfall during 
typhoon 
m
m 
>0 
 
 
 
Table 2 Summary of influencing features at 24k+750 slope 
17 
 
Figure 1b Rainfall data recorded during Typhoon Nari  
 
19 
 
Figure 2 Geological formations of research area 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 
 
Figure 4 Definition of MA72 for a complete rainfall event 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
 
Figure 5b An example for the determination of slope features: Thickness of canopy 
cover 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 
 
Figure 5d An example for the determination of slope features: Change of slope angle 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 
 
Figure 7 LPC-curves of three typical slope cases 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
 
APPENDIX:  
Summary list of slopes at different chainages 
 
深層攪拌工法會議 DM-2009 
會議報告 
一、參加會議過程 
本次會議是由日本港灣空港技術研究所, 日本建設機械化協會, 日本 CDM
協會, 日本 DJM工法研究會, 和日本地盤工學會等單位所共同主辦，會議時間從
民國九十八年五月十九日起至二十一日止，為期三天。會議場地選在 2000年日
本舉辦 G-8高峰會議之會址-琉球名護市萬國津梁館，當年出席高峰會的國家元
首包括美國總統柯林頓、英國首相布萊爾、日本首相森喜郎、和俄羅斯總理普丁
等，萬國津梁館位於琉球之渡假勝地，風光明媚、地勢獨立、但交通不便。主辦
單位希望與會者能在此專心地開會，事實上，三天下來大家真的是很專心地開了
會。本次會議總共有 178人參加，分別來自 22個國家，其中光是日本就有 103
人與會，顯示日本在深層攪拌工法之技術水準獨步全球，遙遙領先世界各國。目
前只有北歐之芬蘭和瑞典等國，在乾式攪拌工法方面，可以與之抗衡。台灣在深
層攪拌工法方面的技術，都是直接從日本引進，本土化的程度不高。筆者雖然在
攪拌工法複合土壤之力學性質和案例研究方面，已發表數篇論文，但與這個學門
的互動還不多，因此希望藉由參與本次會議的機會與其他國家之同業，作好學術
交流。 
由於台灣和琉球間只需一個半小時左右的飛行時間，對筆者而言，實在是
很方便，機票費用省下不少。但因會議地點高檔，註冊費和住宿費比一般的國際
會議高出許多，整體下來，算是滿昂貴的國際會議。 
 
二會議內容 
雖然這次會議定名為深層攪拌工法，但是研討的範圍包括了深層、淺層、和
ex-situ拌合等工法，討論之議題如下： 
1. National/Regional Reports(Regional Soils) 
2. Deep Mixing Projects 
3. Laboratory Testing – International Collaboration 
4. Design of the Improved Ground 
5. Characteristics of Treated Soils 
6. New Applications 
7. New Technologies 
