 2
摘要 
傳統上品質管制技術為統計製程管制(SPC)，應用 SPC 管制圖可以有效地監控製程；
不過由於科技的進步，產品的品質特性數目隨之增加，製程的複雜程度提高，傳統的 SPC
單便量管制圖已經無法有效的監控多重品質特性製程，於是多變量管制圖的概念就被提
出。多變量管制圖主要用於監控製程中的產品具有多個品質特性，但多變量管制圖產生另
一項問題：製程人員雖可以由多變量管制圖判斷製程是否失控，卻在多變量製程失控時，
製程人員並無法得知是哪一個或哪些製程品質特性所造成的影響？因此，如何辨認失控之
品質特性成為監控多變量製程一個重要的研究課題。本文引入了常用的機器學習方法類神
經網路以及支援向量機，希望結合傳統上的 RAM 法以及機器學習的方法，幫助判斷多重
品質特性製程失控之品質特性。 
 
關鍵詞：多變量管制圖，多重品質特性，機器學習  
 
Abstract 
 In order to maintain the products’ quality, the quality control techniques are essential for 
process monitoring. Because the statistical process control (SPC) chart has practical monitoring 
capability, it becomes one of the most useful quality control techniques. The SPC charts are able 
to effectively and correctly detect the process disturbances when they were introduced in the 
process. However, SPC charts still have some limitations, especially in monitoring a multivariate 
process. A multivariate process has two or more variables (or quality characteristics) to be 
monitored. When an out-of-control signal is triggered by the SPC chart, the process personnel 
usually only know that the process is something wrong. Yet, it is hardly to determine which of 
the monitored quality characteristics is responsible for this out-of-control signal. In this study, we 
propose the machine learning mechanisms to solve this difficulty. This study integrates the neural 
network (NN) and support vector machine (SVM) with the multivariate SPC charts to identify the 
contributors to an SPC signal.  The fruitful results are demonstrated through the use of a series 
of simulations. 
 
Keywords: Multivariate control charts, multiple quality characteristic, machine learning 
 
 
1. Introduction 
Nowadays, consumers ask for the quality more than the price.  Companies can hardly make 
profits without good quality. The primary goal of SPC technique is to monitor a process.  Once 
the process disturbance has occurred, an out-of-control signal would be triggered as soon as 
possible.  Then the remedial actions should be taken in order to bring the process back into in 
control state. With the advanced technologies, there are more and more quality characteristics to 
jointly describe the products. The process with two or more quality characteristics is commonly 
seen in industries.  With the increased numbers of quality characteristics, the traditional 
univariate SPC charts cannot effectively monitor the multivariate process. As a consequence, the 
development of the multivariate SPC charts becomes important. 
In a multivariate process, although the process personnel can employ the multivariate SPC 
charts to determine the status of a process, they usually have difficulties in determining which of 
the monitored quality characteristics trigger the out-of-control signal. When the SPC signal is 
generated, the process personnel would take more time (of course, take more money) to 
determine which set of quality characteristics is fault. Runger, Alt, and Montgomery [1] (RAM) 
provided a solution to overcome this drawback. The RAM method computes an approximate 
chi-square statistic to judge which of the monitored quality characteristic is responsible for the 
SPC signal.  Unfortunately, the RAM method still has some deficiencies in some certain 
situations. In the case of small process shifts, the RAM method does not have high correct 
identification rate.  
In this study, we are motivated to combine the multivariate SPC chart with two classification 
mechanisms to enhance the correct identification rate. In order to detect the presence of a 
 4
can be classified into two categories, the feedforward networks and the feedback networks.  The 
feedback networks contain neurons that are connected to themselves, enabling a neuron to 
influence other neurons.   
Neural network has been widely used in many applications. Shao and Chih [4] combined the 
SPC, engineering process control (EPC) and neural networks to identify the types of underlying 
disturbances in a process. Noorossana, Farrokhi, and Saghaei [5] employed NN to detect and 
classify three types of non-random disturbances. Yi, Prybutok, and Clayton [6] also utilized NN 
to build the model and to detect the disturbances of a non-normal application. Hakulinen, and 
Hakkarainen [7] construct the NN based visual quality control system especially suited for the 
needs of padlock manufacturing. Cook, Zobel, and Wolfe [8] used the neural network approach 
to identify the need for increased sampling of observations which has shifts in autocorrelated 
environment process. Chiu, Shao, Lee, and Lee [10] integrated the SPC/EPC with neural 
networks to identify the process disturbances. Chou, Lee, Shao, and Chen [11] used neural 
network and multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS) to classify the pattern of breast 
cancer. 
The other proposed approach is to utilize the support vector machine (SVM) to determine the 
faults of quality characteristics. SVM was originally developed with the use of statistical learning 
theory. Traditionally, SVM has good classification performance in recognizing the small sample 
and high dimensional non-linear data. Recently, SVM has drawn attentions from research 
communities due to its outstanding performance to solve classification problems and its novel 
approach to improve the generalization capability of traditional neural network. For example, 
Zhan and Shen [8] presented a four-step training method for increasing the correct identification 
rate of support vector machine. Cheng and Cheng [12] employed the neural networks and support 
vector machines to identify the source of variance shifts in the multivariate process. However, 
they only consider the case for the contributors to be a single variable or the whole set of 
monitored variable. 
 
3. Results 
 The CIR for p=2, p=3 and p=5 with RAM and the proposed approaches are shown in 
Table 1.  To be considered successful, a model must correctly identify the fault for the set of 
quality characteristics. As shown in Table 1, the proposed approaches are successful in 
determining the contributors to the Hotelling T2 control chart’s signal.   
 For example, observing Table 1, while the CIR is 78% with the use of RAM method 
alone when p=2, the CIR are 89% and 84% with the use of NN and SVM, respectively. These 
results are satisfactory since the CIR is high and greatly improved.  The improvement 
percentages are 14.1% and 7.7% for NN and SVM, respectively. Similar conclusions can be 
drawn for the case of p=3 and p=5.  When p=3, the improvement percentages are 24.6% for 
both NN and SVM method. When p=3, the improvement percentages are 79.7% and 69.5% for 
NN and SVM, respectively. Again, this shows the superiority of the proposed approaches since 
the improvement are greatly achieved when the number of quality characteristic  increases. 
 We also notice that the CIP decreases when p increases.  This is rational since increase 
of quality characteristics would raise the difficulties of identification.  When p=3 increase to 
p=5, we can observe that decrease rate of the proposed approaches is much less than the RAM 
method alone. This is particular important since it implies that the proposed approaches is 
more robust than the RAM method when the number of quality characteristics is increased in a 
multivariate process. 
 
 
Table 1.  The simulation results when p=2, 3, and 5 
 
 RAM  NN/RAM SVM/RAM 
 6
Recognition, vol. 38, pp.157-161, 2005. 
[10] C. Chiu, Y. E. Shao, T. S. Lee, and K. Lee, Identification of process disturbance using 
SPC/EPC and neural networks, Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing, vol. 14, pp. 379-388, 
2003. 
[11] S. M. Chou, T. S. Lee, Y. E. Shao and I. F. Chen, Mining the breast cancer pattern using 
artificial neural networks and multivariate adaptive regression splines, Expert Systems with 
Applications, vol. 27, pp.133-142, 2004. 
[12] C.S. Cheng and H. P. Cheng, Identifying the source of variance shifts in the multivariate 
process using neural networks and support vector machines, Expert Systems with 
Applications, vol. 35, pp.198-206, 2008. 
 
 8
特性。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
此次國際學術會議中，有許多大陸，香港的學者與會，當然台灣來的學者也不少，大
家異地相逢，相談甚歡。最後，能參加此次國際性學術會議，不僅讓敝人開拓了個人研究
視野及研究方向外，更與一些研究領域相近的先進學者建立了良好關係，特此感謝國科會
對於國內學者的大力支持與資助，而讓我們獲得這些寶貴的資源。 
 
 
 
 
