 2
referred to as signal cancellation and may cause 
severe degradation of the beamforming 
performance [9]. 
To reduce the implementation complexity, 
the weights in the GSC can be derived using 
adaptive methods and this results in a adaptive 
beamforming structure. The least-mean-square 
(LMS) algorithm is widely used in adaptive 
processing. It is well-known for its simplicity 
and robustness [10]. However, due to the special 
structure inherent in the GSC, the error signal, 
which is used in the LMS adaptation, consists of 
the output desired signal and residual noise 
components (even in the steady-state). This 
nonzero error signal magnifies the output 
mean-squared-error (MSE). In order to reduce 
the MSE, the step size, a parameter controlling 
the LMS convergence, must be small and it 
essentially makes the LMS converge slowly. 
In this project, we present a decision 
feedback (DF) GSC to overcome the problems 
of insufficient robustness and slow convergence 
with the LMS algorithm. The proposed DF-GSC 
structure will provide extra robustness against a 
DOA mismatch. Meanwhile, the modified error 
signal allows the use of a large step size, and the 
convergence rate of the adaptive DFGSC can be 
greatly accelerated. 
 
III. 研究方法與成果 
(A) Signal Model 
Consider a uniform linear array (ULA) of N 
sensor elements. Let a desired signal from far 
field impinge on the array from a known DOA 
0θ  along with M uncorrelated interfering 
signals from unknown DOAs },,,{ 21 Mθθθ L , 
respectively. Then, the k-th snapshot of the 
1×N  received signal vector at the sensors can 
be written as 
)()()()()()(
1
00 kksksk
M
m
mm naax ++= ∑
=
θθ  (1) 
where )(0 ks  and )(ksm  ),,2,1( Mm L=  
denote the transmitted symbols of the desired 
signal and interference, respectively. For 
convenience, we define )()()( 00 ksk θas =  and 
∑ == Mm mm ksk 1 )()()( θai  for the following 
analysis. The 1×N  vector )(kn  is the 
additive sensor noise at the receiver. The noise 
components are assumed here to be spatially 
white and Gaussian with power 2nσ  at each 
sensor. With the first element as the reference 
point, the 1×N  desired signal’s steering 
vector is given by 
TNiii eee ]1[)( 000 )1(20
θθθ ζζζθ −= La , with 
1−=i  and 0sin)2(0 θπζ λθ Ld= , in which d 
is the element spacing and λL  is the signal 
wavelength. This vector form is also valid for 
the interference’s steering vectors with different 
DOAs. 
 
(B) GSC 
The LCMV beamformer determines the 
weight vector by minimizing the output power 
under appropriate linear weight constraints. The 
GSC is an alternative formulation of the LCMV 
beamformer. The constrained optimization 
problem can be rewritten as the following 
unconstrained optimization problem: 
)()(minmin aqaq
aa
BwwRBww xww −−= HJ ,
where )}()({E kk HxxRx =  is the input 
correlation matrix. The weight vector wq 
represents the N-tap signal matched filter and wa 
is the (N-P)-tap interference cancelling filter, 
with P being the number of constraints. The 
matrix B, with dimension )( PNN −× , is 
called the blocking matrix. The structure of 
GSC is shown in the left dotted part of Fig. 1. 
We can solve the optimum wa as 
q
1
opta, )( wRBBRBw xx
HH −=     (2) 
with ,)( 1q fCCCw −= H  where f is the 1×P  
response vector and C is the PN ×  constraint 
matrix. We let opta,qopt Bwww −= . The optimum 
output signal-to-interference plus noise ratio 
(SINR) can be found to be 
 4
Computer simulations are conducted to 
verify our theoretical results. From Fig. 2 and 3, 
we can conclude that when the LMS algorithm 
is used for adaptation, the adaptive DF-GSC can 
outperform the conventional adaptive GSC. 
From Fig. 4 and 5, we see that the adaptive 
DF-GSC can keep the good performance even 
with DOA mismatch while the conventional 
adaptive GSC breaks down due to signal 
cancellation.  
 
IV. 結論 
In this project, a new LMS-based adaptive 
DF-GSC has been proposed. The DF-GSC 
introduces a blind equalizer and a feedback 
filter in the GSC structure. We theoretically 
show that the optimum interference cancelling 
filters for both the DF-GSC and conventional 
GSC are the same with perfectly known DOA. 
Robustness analysis for the two schemes with a 
DOA mismatch is also given. We derive the 
Wiener solution for the interference cancelling 
filter when the DF-GSC is in mismatch and 
show that the signal cancellation phenomenon 
can be avoided. On the other hand, when the 
optimum weights are estimated by the LMS 
algorithm, the DF-GSC gives significantly 
better results than that of the conventional GSC. 
We have examined the convergence behavior of 
the conventional adaptive GSC and the 
proposed adaptive DF-GSC under perfectly 
matched and mismatched DOA scenarios. 
Simulation results verify that the DF-GSC can 
achieve higher SINR value for the same 
convergence rate or faster convergence for the 
same SINR, and the DF-GSC can keep the high 
SINR performance even in mismatch. 
  
V. 參考文獻 
[1] R. A. Monzingo and T. W. Miller, 
Introduction to Adaptive Arrays, New York: 
Wiley, 1980. 
[2] B. D. Van Veen and K. M. Buckley, 
“Beamforming: A versatile approach to spatial 
filtering,” IEEE Acoust., Speech, Signal 
Processing Mag., vol. 5, pp. 4-24, Apr. 1988. 
[3] L. C. Godara, “Applications of antenna 
arrays to mobile communications, Part II: 
Beam-forming and direction-of-arrival 
considerations,” Proc. IEEE, vol. 85, pp. 
1195-1245, Aug. 1997. 
[4] G. V. Tsoulos (Editor), Adaptive Antennas 
for Wireless Communications, Wiley-IEEE 
Press, Inc., 2001. 
[5] V. G. Moghadam and M. Kaveh, “A 
CDMA interference canceling receiver with an 
adaptive blind array,” IEEE J. Select. Areas 
Commun., vol. 16, pp. 1542-1554, Oct. 1998. 
[6] A. Yener, R. D. Yates, and S. Ulukus, 
“Interference management for CDMA systems 
through power control, multiuser detection, and 
beamforming,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 49, 
pp. 1227-1239, Jul. 2001. 
[7] O. L. Frost III, “An algorithm for linearly 
constrained adaptive array processing,” Proc. 
IEEE, vol. 60, pp. 926-935, Aug. 1972. 
[8] L. J. Griffiths and C. W. Jim, “Alternative 
approach to linear constrained adaptive 
beamforming,” IEEE Trans. Antennas 
Propagat., vol. AP-30, pp. 27-34, Jan. 1982. 
[9] B. Widrow, K. M. Duvall, R. P. Gooch, 
and W. C. Newman, “Signal cancellation 
phenomena in adaptive antennas: Causes and 
curse,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 
AP-30, no. 3, pp. 469-478, May 1982. 
[10] S. Haykin, Adaptive filter theory, 3rd, 
Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1996. 
[11] Yinman Lee and Wen-Rong Wu, “A robust 
adaptive generalized sidelobe canceller with 
decision feedback,” IEEE Trans. Antennas 
Propagat., vol. 53, no. 11, pp. 3822-3832, Nov. 
2005. 
  
 
