 1
中文摘要 
 
近年來台灣墾丁國家公園海岸遊憩活動逐漸熱絡起來，但是由於過去長久以來，隨著休閒潛水的
遊客日漸增多，以及潛水業者與墾丁國家公園管理處及相關單位，無法有適當的系統來控管遊客的數
量以及流程，導致珊瑚礁以及海岸環境受到遊客的破壞；為了能了解與控管潛水遊客的數量與行為，
並進一步降低潛水遊客對珊瑚礁與環境的破壞，本研究提出一套協同之參考模型與資訊系統架構，藉
由流程分析工具來分析現有潛水活動之流程，以及物件導向分析工具來分析協同合作之架構，最終提
出一套資訊系統平台架構，作為遊客、潛水業者、國家公園管理處、以及相關單位的參考，來改善現
有資訊不足的情況。 
 
關鍵詞：流程模型、物件導向分析、水肺潛水產業、國家公園管理 
1. Introduction 
1.1 Problem Statement 
The seashore recreation activities have recently increased by the rising tourism business at Kenting 
national park in Taiwan. In the past, lack of adequate systems to monitor and control the quantity of 
overloaded diving tourists and communicate with scuba diving business has led to serious problems of coral 
reef and coastal environment damage. The major causes of coral damage can be categorized into four issues 
and the related causes can be analyzed by the cause and effect analysis diagram as shown in below (figure 1). 
There are four major problems cause the coral damage including improper diver’s behavior, poor equipment 
carrying action, excessive divers, and poor process management. 
 
Figure 1. Cause and Effect Analysis of Coral Damage 
One of the major problems is the poor process management during the overall diving processes. Poor 
process management will also cause the other problems. Therefore, poor process management is one of the 
most serious problems to solve in Kenting national park. 
1.2 Objective 
In order to reduce the damage of coral reef and other ocean creatures, this research presents a 
process-based reference model and information system for helping the national park to better manage and 
control the scuba diving processes. The tool set of IDEF (Integration Definition) is applied to describe the 
overall workflow of scuba diving processes. An Object-Oriented analysis approach is used to represent the 
architecture of the collaborative model.  A prototype web-based platform is constructed to demonstrate the 
model for monitoring the quantity of scuba diving and show the improved communication channel. 
2. Kenting National Park 
Kenting National Park is one of the most beautiful national parks in Taiwan. Kenting National Park is 
located at the southern tip of Taiwan. With warm climate, pleasant scenery, and easy access, it is one of the 
most popular resorts, attracting millions of both domestic and foreign tourists every year. The diversified 
terrain and tropical climate of Kenting have helped breed rich and fertile vegetation ranging from upland to 
coast with a full variety of living species. Combined with its existing facilities and professional interpretation 
services and activities, this national park offers a profound, insightful, and inspirational ecological journey. 
The purpose of national parks is to preserve a country's unique landscape, wildlife, and cultural heritage for 
the benefit of present and future generations, and to serve as resources for science, education, recreation, and 
enlightenment. All over the world, national parks and reserves are set up where most people agree contain 
unique or representative resources that deserve to be set aside and preserved by the government. 
(http://www.ktnp.gov.tw/ [1], Figure 2). 
 3
 
3. Methodology 
3.1 Key Idea of Model 
Figure 4 presents the framework for building the collaborative model from four different levels. The first 
level is called the Development level. The initiation of the project triggers the sharing of the knowledge 
between divers and different organizations. After collecting the related knowledge and information, this 
research proceeds to the Integration level. The process-based reference model is developed for systems 
integration and event/function identification during the research. In the Collaboration level, we use the 
relationship diagram to understand the further study of the collaborative relation in using different systems. 
Finally, we provide a web-based prototype environment to enhance the possibility for implementation of our 
model. 
 
Figure 4. Framework for the reference model 
3.2 Concept of Collaboration 
Figure 5 shows the collaboration in scuba diving business. The dive center plays a very important role in 
the overall system. At the beginning, the tourists experience the first diving procedure involved the insurance 
business. When the tourists want to learn more diving knowledge and explore more ocean experience, the dive 
center will provide the training courses to the tourists. The training courses always link with the dive center’s 
training system. Most of the dive centers also provide the dive equipment for rent or for sale. The dive center 
plays the role of retail in the dive equipment business. Some dive centers also provide domestic or 
international diving activity which may involve travel agent to assist the diving tour. As we can see in the 
overall diving business, dive center is the key database to own the divers’ information. 
 5
of a comprehensive methodology for developing models (FIPS, 1993). The US Air Force commissioned the 
SADT developers to develop a function model method for analyzing and communicating the functional 
perspective of a system. IDEF0 should assist in organizing system analysis and promote effective 
communication between the analyst and the customer through simplified graphical devices (Grover and 
Kettinger, 2000). 
 
Figure 6: IDEF0 Box and Arrow Graphics (http://www.idef.com/IDEF0.html) 
3.3.1 Process model 
Figure 7 shows the information flow of scuba diving process. Input information will be diver information 
which includes the overall data needs to be collected before the diving process. Output information will be the 
check-out report which includes the overall diving records during the diving process. The check-out report 
will be very the important information for long term tracking and monitoring the divers’ activity in the 
Kenting National Park. According to control list of diving processes, the check points including the diver’s 
quantity of every diving activity, diving story of each divers, diving schedule of each divers, diving equipment 
status of each divers, and the check out quantity of divers. The dive center has to check the capacity to control 
the diver’s quantity. Before the diving activity, the dive center has to check each diver’s diving license for 
understanding the diving history of each diver. The dive center has also to discuss the diving schedule with 
divers and set up the diving plan. The center should check each diver’s equipment by standard procedure 
before diving. After all of the diving activities, the dive center has to confirm the check out quantity of divers 
and make sure the divers are all safe and leave with their equipment completely. 
 
Figure 7. IDEF model - A0 Level for Scuba Diving Process 
3.3.2 Monitoring the Scuba Diving Activity 
Figure 8 shows the deployment of scuba diving process in Figure 7 for further detail processes. The input 
information is the diver information. After the process of check in diver center and apply insurance, check 
diver's diving experience, set up diving plan, check diving (1st dive), check out dive center, the final check out 
report is generated to be the output report. The output of check in diver center and apply insurance process is 
 7
 Figure 10. UML Collaboration Diagram 
 
4. Web-Based Network Structure 
A prototype web-based platform (Figure 11) has been constructed to demonstrate the enhanced 
communication channel in this model. The standard for the web-based systems have been well developed and 
implemented in the current electronic support environment. Diver receives the real time information of water 
outlet, water inlet and the national park carrying capacity from the web-based platform. Via the server of dive 
center, diver can send the diver information to dive center. Dive center also can receive the real time 
information of water outlet, water inlet and the national park carrying capacity from the web-based platform. 
After received the diver’s information, dive center can use the web-based platform to send the diver’s 
information to the national park server. The coast guard administration can use the web-based platform to 
receive the diver’s information for monitoring diver’s diving situation. The nuclear power plant officer can 
use the web-based platform receive the diver’s information and send the real time information of water outlet 
and water inlet to the national park server. 
 
Figure 11. Web-Based Collaborative Architecture 
 
 9
 11
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：此研究計畫成果已投稿 2011 年中國工業工程學會學術研討會，目前正
在審查中。  
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
成果之論文已投稿 2011 中國工業工程學會學術研討會審查中，此研究計畫是
首次將流程導向之分析工具應用在墾丁國家公園中之休閒潛水業，未來將推
展到台灣其他海岸風景管理處以及離島之休閒潛水業，作為其他相關單位與
業者的參考。 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：古國正 計畫編號：99-2221-E-159-019- 
計畫名稱：監控水肺休閒潛水數量協同參考模型之研究-以墾丁國家公園地區為例 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 1000%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 1 0% 
篇 成果已投稿 2011
中國工業工程學
會年會暨學術研
討會審查中 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 0% 
論文已完成, 即
將投稿Journal of 
Ocean and 
Coastal 
Management之 SCI
期刊 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
