> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (DOUBLE-CLICK HERE TO EDIT) < 
 
1 
 
Abstract— In this research, a compact micromachined planar 
monopole antenna is demonstrated. A high coupling structure is 
formed on the patch to offer better impedance matching in order 
to maintain UWB characteristics. The proposed antenna is 
fabricated on the HRS substrate (  15000 Ω -cm). The 
proposed antenna has shown a promising feature for the UWB 
system application. 
 
Index Terms—MEMS, micromachining, UWB. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
n recent years, the development of Ultra wideband (UWB) 
technology has grown rapidly. Various applications in 
different fields, such as domestic, military, and industrial have 
take the advantages of the wide impedance characteristic of 
UWB communication systems. For the federal communication 
commission (FCC)‟s suggestion of UWB service applications 
[1], numerous research in UWB antennas have been proposed. 
A planar monopole antenna is one of the most commonly used 
antenna types for UWB applications owning to following 
attractive features such as simple structure, low profile, wide 
impedance-bandwidth and omnidirectional radiation patterns 
[2-5]. Another important system requirement on today‟s 
antenna is integrability [6]. The demand on the integrability 
 
Manuscript received October 9, 2001. (Write the date on which you 
submitted your paper for review.) This work was supported in part by the U.S. 
Department of Commerce under Grant BS123456 (sponsor and financial  
 
implies the use of silicon as the substrate material, as it is the 
most common element in VLSI technology. 
This paper presents a novel planar monopole patch antenna 
using MEMS technology for UWB radios. The proposed 
antenna consists of trench structure with high electric field 
coupling structure to provide better impedance matching in 
desire bandwidth. All simulations have been carried out with 
the Ansoft HFSS v11 software. The proposed antenna is 
fabricated on high-resistivity silicon (HRS) substrate which the 
fabrication process of the antenna is considerably simple and 
compatible with the CMOS fabrication process. 
 
II. ANTENNA DESIGN 
The geometry of the proposed micromachined planar 
monopole antenna for ultra-wideband (UWB) application is 
shown in Fig. 1(a). As shown in fig. 1(a), the antenna is 
designed through the optimization of the bevel angle on the 
radiating patch and two high coupling slots on the patch. Both 
the beveling and high electric field coupling slot technique on 
the radiating patch are utilized to improve bandwidth 
characteristic over the desired frequency band. In addition, 
ground plane also has bevels for better impedance matching. 
The CPW-fed is utilized in this design. The radiating patch, the 
ground plane, and the signal line are all fabricated in the same 
surface on 525 μm-thick HRS substrate with dielectric constant 
of 11.9. The simulation is conducted using Ansoft High 
Frequency Structure Simulator (HFSS). The overall size of the 
proposed antenna is 35 ×17 . The optimized dimensions of 
the proposed antenna are shown in following : W0 = 14 mm, L0 
適用於超寬頻通訊系統與新型感知通訊之射頻前端電路設計
2&3- MEMS Planar Monopole Antenna for UWB 
Application - 結案報告 
I 
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (DOUBLE-CLICK HERE TO EDIT) < 
 
3 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
Frequency (GHz)
R
et
u
rn
 L
o
ss
 (
d
B
)
 
 
Fig. 4.  Simulation results of return loss of  the proposed mems UWB 
antenna. 
HRS substrate
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
Ti ( 200 Å  ) &
Cu ( 3 μm )
Ti ( 200 Å  ) &
Cu ( 500 Å )
AZ 4620 (15 μm)  
 
 
Fig. 2.  Fabrication process flows for the EOCPW line: (a) HRS substrate 
(b) Lithography (mask-1) then ICP deep etching and PR removal. (c)  
sputtering of Ti & Cu. (d) Lithography (mask-2) then electroplating of Cu 
(e) Photoresist lift-off then stripping of Cu in unwanted position. 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
Frequency (GHz)
R
et
u
rn
 L
o
ss
 (
d
B
)
 
Fig. 4. Simulation result of return loss of the proposed mems antenna. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 3.  (a) The photograph of the fabricated antenna (b) the 
microphotograph of the trench in the cross-sectional view 
impedance-bandwidth for 10-dB return loss from 2.89 GHz to 
10.74 GHz covering the whole UWB bands. The  
The simulated normalized radiation patterns at YZ-plane and 
XZ-plane at 3.5GHz, 6.85GHz, and 10GHz of the proposed 
antenna are displayed in Fig. 5, respectively. The antenna 
exhibits omnidirectional diagram in XZ-plane with low 
frequency dependence. In addition, the maximum measured 
gains of the proposed antenna at 3.50, 6.85, and 10 GHz are 
about 0.77, 0.97, and 1.92 dBi, respectively. 
 
V. CONCLUSION 
    In this paper, a compact MEMS antenna for promising 
ultrawideband application has been demonstrated. A high 
electric coupling structure is utilized for improving bandwidth 
characteristic over the desired frequency band. Moreover, all 
the fabrication process of the proposed antenna is considerably 
simple and compatible with the CMOS fabrication process 
which is conducive to the SOC concern. 
VI. 計畫成果自評 
    本計畫原定完成一個應用在UWB頻帶的CMOS製程相容
天線，但應饋入端設計不良導致量測上出現困難，此問題
已經過重新設計，經由矽基板上的餽入端和印刷電路板上
的餽入端共同設計，以便達到量測上的需求。 
     
2009 iWAT 研討會 心得分享 
美國洛杉磯當地時間，2009年 03月 02 日早上九點，我們一行人到了這一
次 iWAT 所舉辦的會議地點，Santa Monica 市的 Doubletree Hotel。 
第一天我們聽取了一些關於左手物質傳輸線為基礎所製作的天線，特別是第
一位，所報告的是”A compact Metamaterial-inspired mmW CPW-fed antenna” 
利用 CPW 饋入架構，再以寄生電容、電感等參數值等效出左手物質的特性。其中
最令我感到興趣的，就是利用 couple效果，以及等效電感的方式，一方面可以
省去要焊接上 lump 元件的麻煩，另外，可以經由改變幾何架構，去微調我們所
需要的一些參數值，關於這一點，對我自己的研究多了一些新的想法和方式可以
去嚐試。一來可以改動天線特性，二來可以讓整個天線更趨於印刷平面化，而不
需要多加任何電路元件。 
而在每一位報告者報告完之後，會有提問時間。可以看到就是一些大師級的
人物，所提問的方式也不盡相同，可以觀察到的，歐美國家的人，問問題會比較
客氣，也比較有禮貌，相較之下，亞洲地區的國家比較不會注重到這方面。再來
就是，很多提問者，他們所提的問題，所切入的角度也讓我很意外，也許是我自
己想得不夠多，思考的不夠仔細，因為這些提問者的問題，真的是一針見血。常
常有些地方是報告者輕描淡寫的帶過，而這些提問者卻可以在這些地方，找出一
些可能會有的問題或是有相互矛盾的地方。相形之下，可以比較的出來，為何他
們是大師，而我可能還只是個學生，學得不夠專精。 
中午，在簡短吃過中餐之後，便是我們 poster session開始的時候。在這
一場 session，來參觀的人數並不算太多，但是仍有不少教授級的來賓到場觀看
這些 posters。由於第一天是同行的同學和學長的 poster，所以就先觀摩學長和
同學如何和一些教授級的人物做對答，一來可以當作隔天，換我 poster 的時候
如何作應對，二來可以多訓練一下自己的英文能力。此外，在這一場 session
當中，也有其他臺灣來的作者，一是宜蘭大學的同學，另一位是國防大學的學生。
在這裡，也可以看到各國不同的風格，有些作者的海報會做得很精美，而有些作
者則是用一些 A4的紙張，最後再一張一張放在每報板的上面。相比之下，可以
看得出用心的程度。 
第二天，上午也是先去參加 talk session，這一場的主題是”Measurement 
Issues of Small Antennas, ” 這一方面的主題對於我所作的研究：chip 
antenna很有幫助，因為 chip antenna也是 small antenna的其中一部分，要
如何去量測 chip antenna 的參數，就現今的量測技術而言，仍然是一大挑戰。
另外，如何在模擬的時候，把一些環境的外在因為考慮進去，也是一個很大的課
題。像是在量測 chip antenna 時，probe的影響要如何納入模擬當中，會如何
影響天線的特性…..等等，都是值得去思考的問題。在這一場的 talk 當中，我
也獲得不少相關的資訊，當然，也有從一些提問者的問題，發現有些量測的考量
是可以更加嚴謹的。 
