成果報告_徐世祥2008Jan.doc 共 4 頁 第 2 頁
圖三 波導面粗糙度與偏極化有關損耗的關係 圖四 3種不同長度波導的光罩圖
-0.2
-0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
P
D
L
(d
B
/c
m
)
L
o
s
s
(d
B
/c
m
)
LithographyRoughness (um)
在絕緣層上覆矽波導的研發過程中，雙折射效應(Birefringence Effect)、偏極化有關波長
的漂移(Polarization Dependent Wavelength Shift; PDWS) 以及偏極化有關的損耗(Polarization
Dependent Loss; PDL)是三個最主要影響光特性的因素。尤其是當絕緣層上覆矽波導的中心層
厚度減小時，雙折射效應將會顯著地增加。我們以絕緣層上覆矽波導的寬度與蝕刻深度幾何
形狀之變化來探討雙折射效應，如圖五(a)所示，當 5 微米厚絕緣層上覆矽波導之寬度在 3.8
微米時，雙折射效應最小，此時若固定 3.8 微米波導寬度，在波導單模條件下，當蝕刻深度
愈深，雙折射效應亦愈小，如圖五(b)所示。
圖五 (a)波導寬度與(b)波導蝕刻深度的改變對偏極化有關波長的漂移與雙折射效應的影響
(a)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
3 3.5 4 4.5 5 5.5 6 6.5 7
Waveguide Width ( mm)
P
D
W
S
h
ift
(G
H
z)
0.0E+00
2.0E-05
4.0E-05
6.0E-05
8.0E-05
1.0E-04
1.2E-04
1.4E-04
1.6E-04
B
ir
ef
ri
n
g
en
ce
(N
T
E
-N
T
M
)
0.0E+00
5.0E-05
1.0E-04
1.5E-04
2.0E-04
2.5E-04
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2.46 2.51 2.56 2.61 2.66 2.71 2.76
B
ir
e
fr
in
g
e
n
c
e
(N
T
E
-N
T
M
)
P
D
W
S
h
if
t
(G
H
z
)
Etch Depth (mm)
(b)
陣列波導光柵(Array Waveguide Grating; AWG)的工作原理是不同波長的光由單一個波導
耦合進入，經過第一個平面波導，使光能量以高斯(Gaussian)分布般地導入波導陣列，此陣列
乃利用有效彎屈半徑來形成光柵，產生固定相位差，使不同波長光束經過第二個平面波導得
以聚焦在不同的位置，再以波導型式匯出，於是光波波長得以有效分開;陣列波導光柵是可
成果報告_徐世祥2008Jan.doc 共 4 頁 第 4 頁
REFERENCES
[1] S. H. Hsu, “Silicon-on-insulator Waveguide with Low Birefringence and Smooth Lithography
Roughness for a Simple Optical Interconnection”, Submitted to Photonics Technology Letters in
2007
[2] S. H. Hsu, and J. Chan, “Photonic bus with loop signal routing and multichannel wavelength 
selection on a single silicon-on-insulator platform”, Optics Letters, 31(14), pp. 2142–2144
(2006)
[3] S. H. Hsu, “Low Polarization Dependent Loss for Waveguide Tap Monitoring”, CLEO/Pacific 
Rim 2007, p. TuD4-1, Aug. 27-31, 2007
[4] S. H. Hsu, “A Simple Optical Interconnection Integrated with Low Birefringence 
Silicon-on-insulator Waveguide”, CLEO/Pacific Rim 2007, p. FA1-3, Aug. 27-31, 2007
[5] S. H. Hsu, “Improved Reflective Signal-to-Noise Ratio to Stabilize Laser Frequency using
Pound-Drever-Hal Technique with Zerodur Etalon”, CLEO/Pacific Rim 2007, p. WP_47, Aug. 
27-31, 2007
[6] S. H. Hsu,“Novel Optical Interconnection for Silicon-on-insulator Waveguide Tap Monitor”,
OECC/IOOC’07, 2007, p. 333
[7] S. H. Hsu,“Low Birefringence Silicon-on-insulator Waveguide and Its Optical Interconnection
using High Numerical Aperture Fiber”, OECC/IOOC’07, 2007, p. 336
[8] G. T. Reed and A. P. Knights, “Silicon photonics – an introduction”, (John Wiley & Sons Ltd., 
2004), Chapter 4
[9] I. Day, I. Evans, A Knights et al., “Tapered silicon waveguides for low-insertion-loss highly
efficient high-speed electronic variable atenuator”, OFC, (OSA, 2003), pp. 24-27
[10]S. Hsu, “A simple optical interconnection integrated with low birefringence silicon-on-insulator
waveguide”, CLEO/Pacific Rim 2007, p. FA1-3, Aug. 27-31, 2007
[11]E. Fazio, W. A. Ramadan, and M. Bertoloti, “Direct measurement of birefringence in 
ion-exchanged planar waveguides”, Optics Leters, 21(16), pp. 1238-1240, 1996
[12]Dietrich Marcuse, “Theory of Dielectric Optical Waveguide”, 2nd edition, Chapter 4.6
出國報告_徐世祥 2008Jan.doc 共 3 頁 第 2 頁
上圖為bonding的流程圖，一開始先利用”black wax”將晶圓黏合至玻璃片上，再進行蝕
刻，晶圓基板會從InGaAs etch stop層分離，但會有些許殘留，可利用H2SO4:H202:H20的混合
溶液清洗之前的InP晶圓與準備接合的Si晶圓，再通入4kg/cm2的壓力，此過程結束後，兩片
晶圓即可算bonding在一起，但介面還沒有非常堅固，壓力去除後需浸泡在三氯乙烯溶液裡
將black wax去除掉，再加入氫氣以4000C退火，增強介面的強度，再退火同時也會施加較低
的壓力(30g/cm2)，最後若我們想知道bonding的強度的話可藉由三項參數判斷：PL強度、
X-ray rocking curve及etch-pit density(EPD) [3]。
Santa Barbara的Prof. John E. Bowers在耦合方面是採取evanescent coupling方法，此乃利
用波導的幾何形狀來控制光波導模的走向，在此我們若想將模從半導體雷射耦合到光波導內
的話，可藉由改變光波導rib的寬度來達成，若逐漸增加rib寬度的話，半導體雷射模會耦合更
多至下面的光波導rib，下圖為rib寬度與光波導模走向的關係 [5]。
Low Polarization Dependent Loss for Waveguide Tap Monitoring
Shih-Hsiang Hsu
Department of Electronic Engineering
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology
No. 43, Sec. 4, Keelung Rd., Taipei, Taiwan
TEL: +886-2-2737-6399
FAX: +886-2-2737-6424
E-Mail: shsu@mail.ntust.edu.tw
Abstract: A photodetector can be applied onto the silicon-on-insulator waveguide tap to monitor light signals on
waveguide for the surface mount detection. The reflective metal layer integrated with 54.7-degree angles from anisotropic
silicon wet-etching demonstrated low polarization-dependent-loss of 0.2 dB.
Introduction
One or more tap waveguides, implemented in the optical
components for monitoring, is usually utilized to extract a
portion of the light signal traveling alone a primary
waveguide. Furthermore, a photodetector can be position-
ed onto tap waveguides to receive the light signals on the
tap waveguide. Since a portion of the light signal from the
primary waveguide is carried by the tap waveguide, the
output of the photodetector can be utilized to indicate
characteristics on the primary waveguide. The tap wave-
guide typically ends at the edge of an optical component.
The photodetector is then positioned at the edge of the
optical component over the end of the tap waveguide and
receives the light signals directly from the tap waveguide.
As the complexity of optical circuits formed on optical chips
increases, many tap waveguides can not be employed and
terminated at an edge of an optical component. Hence,
there is a need for a waveguide tap that is suitable for use
with complex optical circuits and can be positioned on a
wafer base.
Recently silicon-on-insulator (SOI) is a critical platform
for integrated optoelectronic circuits since it offers the
potential of monolithic integration for photonic and
electronic functions on a single substrate [1,2]. Integrating
photonics functions on a silicon platform will be a low cost
solution if integrated optoelectronics circuits are feasible.
In a rib SOI waveguide, the interface roughness from
core/cladding and etched silicon surfaces mainly play the
roles of the scattering centers to contribute the optical
propagation loss. If the SOI waveguide design is appro-
priate, the polarization dependent loss (PDL) can be
controlled within 0.1 dB. 5 m thick SOI waveguide was a
good choice to demonstrate low birefringence and efficient
interconnection [3]. Nevertheless many tap waveguide
monitors/photodetectors are associated with an undesirab-
ly high level of PDL, which means that the detector will
sense a result of significantly different polarization modes.
Because the primary SOI waveguides are usually showing
very small PDL (<0.1 dB), the distribution of different
polarity modes from the waveguide tap to the received
photodetector cannot represent and monitor the polari-
zation modes in the primary waveguide of an optical
component. Accordingly, there is a need for a tap wave-
guide arrangement where the output of the photodetector
can represent the conditions in the primary waveguide.
Optical Interconnection for Waveguide Tap Monitoring
A novel optical interconnection was demonstrated by a
total internal reflection (TIR) mirror on the GaAs based
platform. The TIR mirror was etched by chemically assist-
ed ion beam etching (CAIBE) to couple the optical signal
from the waveguide into the detector for monolithically
optical interconnections [4]. This approach requires a
special CAIBE etcher and a complex dry etch processing
development. Another simple optical interconnection is to
integrate the waveguide tap, which is comprised by a
cascade of two directional couplers via a relative phase
shift between them [5], with the anisotropic wet etch on 5
m thick SOI waveguide, which can be implemented by an
alkaline solution, KOH, and will be stopped at (111) planes
slanted 54.70 for (100) silicon wafer, shown in Fig.1. The
angles of 35.30, less than the angle for total internal
reflection, can be utilized as the input angle from SOI
waveguide to polyimide medium. The metal on top of SiO2
in the direction-changing-region is reflecting the optical
signals, traveling along the tap waveguide, away from the
base toward a photodetector via an input angle of 81.080.
The interface on the opposite side of SOI waveguide was
done by dry etch to get almost vertical slope to avoid
unexpected PDL on the detector from multiple reflections
of metal layers. A scanning electron microscope (SEM)
picture for the direction-changing-region without detector is
shown in the inset of Fig. 1(b).
(a)
(b)
Fig. 1(a). Top view of an optical component having a
primary waveguide and a tap waveguide positioned on a
base. (b) A cross section from schematic and its SEM
picture, taken at the dashed line labeled in (a)
The beam propagation method carried by BeamPROP
for two cascaded directional couplers, insensitive to
fabrication error, on SOI waveguides demonstrate that the
PDL from the tap waveguide is around +1 dB, which
means that the optic loss of transverse-electric (TE)
polarization is higher than transverse-magnetic (TM). In
Fig. 2(a), the ray optics simulation shows that the PDL is
around +0.1 dB at the input angle of 35.30 for the
transmission from silicon to polyimide layers [6]. In Fig.
2(b), an aluminum metal, frequently utilized in silicon
processing, was taken to demonstrate the PDL of around
-0.75 dB, contributed by the reflection from polyimide
medium to aluminum metal at the input angle of 81.080.
The net PDL through silicon, polyimide, and aluminum is
Metal Layer for
Reflection & PDL
Compensation
Si Substrate
SiO2
Silicon Substrate
InGaAs p-i-n detector with AR coating
Polyimide Medium (n=2.9)
Input Angle for
Transmission = 35.30
Input Angle for Reflection
= 81.080
Si (n=3.5) Si
SOI Waveguide
SOI Waveguide
InGaAs p-i-n detector
Cross Section
To Tap Port
Primary Port
Tap Port
Input Port
A Simple Optical Interconnection Integrated with Low
Birefringence Silicon-on-insulator Waveguide
Shih-Hsiang Hsu
Department of Electronic Engineering
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology
No. 43, Sec. 4, Keelung Rd., Taipei, Taiwan
TEL: +886-2-2737-6399
FAX: +886-2-2737-6424
E-Mail: shsu@mail.ntust.edu.tw
Abstract: 5 m thick silicon-on-insulator waveguide was demonstrated to low birefringence of 4.6x10-5.
Instead of complex processing from 3D mode size converter, the high numerical aperture fiber was utilized
as the bridge between corresponding waveguide and SMF-28 fiber to get competitively coupling loss of
0.4 dB.
Introduction
Silicon-on-insulator (SOI) is a critical platform for integrated optoelectronic circuits since it offers the potential of
monolithic integration for photonic and electronic functions on a single substrate [1]. Integrating photonics functions on a
silicon plat- form will be a low cost solution if integrated optoelectronics circuits are feasible. Birefringence is a serious
problem faced by many photonics devices, which results in polarization dependent wavelength (PDW) shift and polarization
dependent loss (PDL). However the beam propagation method (BPM) with semi-vectorial capability to simulate SOI
waveguides shows that the waveguide height of a few microns has lower birefringence than one micron or less height
waveguide, which is approximately 10-2, two orders of magnitude larger. Therefore a bigger core size for SOI waveguide is
preferred due to higher birefringence effect on a smaller core. On the other hand, thicker SOI waveguides will cause
significantly large bend radius. A suitable core size for SOI waveguides should compromise between low birefringence and
competitively compact device size.
The mode field diameter (MFD) from thinner SOI waveguides will have significant coupling loss associated with a
SMF-28 fiber. A complex mode-size-converter taper was then utilized on this kind of SOI waveguides to make optical modes
extended to match fiber modes via three dimensional expansion [2]. A simple SOI waveguide process is necessary for further
multiple layers integration and cost reduction. Therefore, a high numerical aperture (HNA) fiber with small MFD was used
as the bridge between a standard telecommunication fiber, SMF-28, and higher refractive-index-contrast SOI waveguides [3].
To optimize the coupling loss, the SOI waveguide mode can be chosen as similar as the HNA fiber. In this paper, the
birefringence and PDW shift of SOI waveguide with suitable thickness will be discussed and demonstrated based on the
waveguide geometric width and etch depth. A low coupling loss between HNA fiber and SOI waveguides will also be
presented.
Birefringence Study for SOI Waveguides
The mechanical stress to an optical substrate modifies the optical properties of a material by the dielectric impermeability.
Thus, a homogeneous and isotropic material subject to mechanical stress will become optically anisotropic. The pheno-
menon is known as the stress birefringence or photo- elastic effect. The changes in the indices of refraction are due to the
effects of stress imparting changes in the dielectric impermeability that alter the size, shape, and orientation of the index
ellipsoid. The correlation between PDW shift and PDL can be illustrated by the array waveguide grating (AWG)
demultiplexer. The modal birefringence can be observed as PDW shift on the central wavelengths, which can be given by
PDW=TE-TM=(nTE-nTM)L/m. Here and n are the wavelength and effective index of the waveguide, respectively, for
transverse electric (TE) and transverse magnetic (TM) polarization states; L is the difference of two adjacent grating
lengths; and m is the grating order in an AWG. Once the PDW shift is verified, the difference between highest and lowest
optical power on the central wavelength is called PDL. The lowest birefringence and PDL are required for
telecommunication system design.
A BPM simulation shows that if the waveguide dimensions shrink to around 1m or less in high refractive-index-contrast
SOI waveguide layer structures [4], it is not only that the birefringence effect is large, but also the PDL becomes significant.
The overlap integral simulation suggested that the most efficient coupling with a SMF-28 fiber is 12 m thick SOI
waveguides. The large core thickness is then preferred for decent optical performance. Nevertheless, the large core needs a
very big bend radius to maintain the single mode operation and the device layout can not be maintained as compact as
expected. For example, 12 m thick core of SOI waveguides satisfies the single mode conditions only when 20 mm
minimum bend radius is applied. For the points of view with regard to low birefringence, low PDL, compactness, and
efficient inter- connection, another compromise thickness for SOI waveguides is needed.
The recent progress on fusion splicing can joint two different cores of fibers within 0.1 dB coupling loss. The HNA fiber
is a good selection to play an intermediate role to connect SOI waveguides and SMF-28 fibers. The MFD of HNA fiber is
typically around 5 m, which corresponding bend radius is around 7 mm for single mode operation. Therefore, the BPM
simulation tool, BeamPROP, was implemented onto 5m thick SOI waveguide to understand the birefringence performance.
In Fig. 1 (a), a reasonable etch depth, 2.65m, to get a compact bend radius, 7 mm, was utilized to study the width effect on
birefringence variation for 5 m thick SOI waveguide. The birefringence and PDW will have a minimum value on 3.8 um
width. And then 3.8 m width is fixed, the etch depth is varied before reaching the multimode region, 2.8 m etch depth.
The lowest birefringence and PDW are 5x10-5 and 3 GHz, respectively, on 2.76 m etch depth and 3.8 m width on 5 m
Improved Reflective Signal-to-Noise Ratio to Stabilize
Laser Frequency using Pound-Drever-Hall Technique with
Zerodur Etalon
Shih-Hsiang Hsu
Department of Electronic Engineering
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology
No. 43, Sec. 4, Keelung Rd., Taipei, Taiwan
TEL: +886-2-2737-6399
FAX: +886-2-2737-6424
E-Mail: shsu@mail.ntust.edu.tw
Abstract: The reflected light intensity from an extremely low thermal coefficient of zerodur etalon was
utilized to stabilize laser frequency using Pound-Drever-Hall approach. The reflective signal-to-noise ratio
of etalon is affected by coated mirror reflectivity and insertion loss. Over 6 dB signal-to-noise ratio and
more than 100 etalon finesse were demonstrated.
Introduction
Dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM) systems represent optical signals multiplexed within
the telecommunication band for the leverage of capabilities and cost. Stable frequencies or wavelengths
need to be maintained for the closer spacing of the wavelengths [1]. Precision temperature control of laser
transmitter is also required in DWDM systems to prevent drift off a very narrow frequency window of the
order of a few MHz/GHz. A narrow linewidth laser at 1550 nm wavelength could also be utilized to
calibrate precision fiber-based sensors and filters. It could be used in conjunction with these highly
sensitive optical devices to make precision measurements of physical phenomena. Being a kind of
frequency reference, a narrow-linewidth infrared laser could aide in the difficult process of measuring the
spectral width of other narrow band lasers, such as heterodyne linewidth characterization.
The Fabry-Perot can be considered as the archetype of the optical resonator for laser frequency
monitoring. Zerodur has an extremely low coefficient of thermal expansion, which can even become zero
or slightly negative in some temperature ranges. Another unique characteristic of zerodur is its exceptional
good homogeneity. Even in large material blocks, the fluctuations of mechanical and thermal properties are
nearly not measurable. A good transparency in the range of about 400-2300 nm wavelength makes zerodur
lossless in the telecommunication bandwidth. Therefore, zerodur is a good selection to be the material of
Fabry-Perot etalon under the severe working environment.
Signal-to-Noise Ratio Study in Pound-Drever-Hall Approach
Pound-Drever-Hall approach [2,3] is to control laser frequency using the laser injected current directly
modulated with RF local oscillator (LO). Both amplitude and frequency of the beam are affected by the
current. The laser beam goes through Etalon which converts frequency modulation into amplitude
modulation. The signal after passing through photodetector and transimpedance amplifier is compared with
LO signal by phase detector and then the error signal is integrated to correct the laser bias to stabilize the
frequency. A basic setup in Fig. 1 shows the frequency is modulated with a Pockels cell, driven by some
the local oscillator. A low pass-filter on the output of the mixer isolates LO. The reflected beam is picked
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Insertion Loss (dB)
T
ra
n
sm
is
si
o
n
(d
B
)
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
R
ef
le
ct
io
n
(d
B
)
S/N Ratio in R=0.97 Transmission (dB)
S/N Ratio in R=0.92 Transmission (dB)
S/N Ratio in R=0.97 Reflection (dB)
S/N Ratio in R=0.92 Reflection (dB)
Fig. 1 Basic layout for locking a cavity to a laser Fig. 2 Simulated transmission and reflection from Etalon
Etalon
Beam Splitter
Optical Isolator
Receiver for
Transmission
Receiver for
Reflection
Laser
Pockels Cell
Faraday
Isolator
Servo
Amp Phase Shifter
~Local Oscillator
Low Pass Filter
Mixer
