 
1 
Fabrication hard bone scaffolds mold using              
selective laser curing technology 
利用雷射固化技術製作硬骨骼支架模型 
Fwu-Hsing Liu, Tsui-Yen Ni and Yunn-Shiuan Liao 
劉福興、倪翠妍、廖運炫 
    本文使用自行開發之快速原型機，以選擇性雷射固化技術，研究氫氧基磷灰石及生醫陶瓷材
料製作硬骨骼支架模型。利用生醫陶瓷漿料具有的黏度支撐效果，製作出多孔性的支架模型；以
掃描式電子顯微鏡觀察支架固化、雷射燒結以及高溫處理後的微觀組織結構；利用原子力顯微鏡
量測出表面粗糙度。結果顯示，經過高溫處理後可提高支架之緻密性，使其表面粗糙度有增大的
趨勢，有利於類骨母細胞之附著及成長。 
關鍵詞：快速原型、氫氧基磷灰石、選擇性雷射固化、骨骼支架 
    This article presents a selective laser curing process for forming a hard bone scaffold mold 
constructed by hydroxyapatite (HA) based bioceramic materials. The support effect of the viscosity in 
bioceramics is applied to product the porous scaffold mold. The microstructure of the cured scaffolds 
after laser sintering and high-temperature post-process was observed by scanning electron microscope 
(SEM). Furthermore, the surface roughness was measured by atomic force microscope (AFM). The 
results show that the density and the surface finish of scaffolds can be increased after post process, 
which is good for the attachment and growth of osteoblast-like cells. 
Keyword: Rapid Prototyping; Hydroxyapatite; Selective Laser Curing; Bone Scaffolds 
1. 前言 
    快速原型(Rapid Prototyping, RP)技術，是
以層加工(Layer Manufacture)方式，結合了材
料科學、雷射技術、CAD/CAM、等領域的技
術，能夠依造立體圖形，製作出複雜的三維立
體原型。以此技術製作組織工程 (Tissue 
Engineering, TE)之支架(Scaffold)，能夠直接製
作出由醫學影像所提供的圖像或自行設計之
複雜三維立體形狀，以獲得高孔隙度與相互連
結之內連通孔支架的優點 (1-3)。 
組織工程技術是利用人體自身的細胞，藉
由體外生醫材料製作之支架來進行細胞培養
及增生。依據生醫陶瓷與動物體組織間之生物
化學反應，可將生醫材料分為：近生化惰性陶
瓷(Nearly Inert Bioceramics)、表面活性陶瓷
(Surface-Active Bioceramics)及生物可吸收性
陶瓷(Resorbable Bioceramics)三類；其中表面
活性陶瓷包含碳酸鈣生物陶瓷，此種陶瓷主要
包括磷灰石和磷酸三鈣(4)。 
    本研究以選擇性雷射固化技術(Selective 
Laser Curing, SLC)為製程基礎，使用氫氧基磷
灰石(Hydroxyapatite, HA)搭配二氧化矽溶膠
(Silica Sol)，依比例調製出適當的生醫陶瓷
(Bioceramic)漿料狀原料，製作出符合生物相
容性與多孔性之硬骨骼支架。 
2. 文獻探討 
2.1 快速原型於組織工程之支架應用 
    快速原型技術(RP)製作骨骼支架具備的
優點有：直接由醫學影像經由軟體重建設計出
支架、利用 CAD 設計複雜的形狀、自動化製
程系統節省人力時間、不需使用有機溶劑、
等。RP 技術除工程及科學的應用外，現今多
數應用在醫學上，以製作出義耳、透明齒列矯
正器、人工關節、等。相較於其他加工方式(如
 
3 
振鏡式 X-Y 雷射掃描頭，材料疊層系統包含
刮料機構及升降機構，電腦控制系統與人機介
面由 Visual Basic 程式撰寫而成。 
 
圖一 快速原型機示意圖 
    CO2雷射光所提供的能量範圍大，只要是
粉末狀的陶瓷材料均可使用此加工光源做為
燒結熔化成形，雷射功率則由雷射控制卡控
制；振鏡式 X-Y 雷射掃描頭經由掃描控制卡
控制雷射欲掃描之路徑；材料疊層系統經由可
程式控制器(PLC)控制供料及刮料機構。 
3.3 研究步驟 
3.3.1 支架設計 
使用Pro/Engineer繪圖軟體，繪製三維立
體支架模型及其內部結構，其圖形設計為0/90°
長條形、網格形兩種形式，如圖二所示。再以
切層軟體轉換為快速原型系統可讀取之STL
檔案格式。 
  
圖二 骨骼支架模型示意圖 
(a) 0/90°長條形、(b)網格形 
3.3.2 材料調配 
    依比例將氫氧基磷灰石與二氧化矽溶膠
混合，並充分攪拌均勻，使其成為黏稠漿料
狀，以調製出適宜 CO2 雷射光加熱燒結之配
方。漿料的比例成分會影響其支架成功率，過
於黏稠使支架成型不易，反之，太稀釋會使支
架容易塌卸；並加以分析其漿料黏稠度隨時間
的變化。 
    本研究使用二氧化矽溶膠為漿料之黏結
劑，因溶膠具有黏度的性質，與粉末間混和可
具有良好的結合力及流動性，使在後處理過程
中，能夠輕易的將漿料沖洗乾淨，使孔洞不因
清除困難而造成堵塞(22)。 
3.3.3 雷射掃描 
在人機介面中，設定雷射掃描速度、雷射
頻率及雷射功率。以三種變數來控制支架，並
加以觀察其相關性。已攪拌均勻之漿料，裝置
於供料器中，由供料器鋪平於工作平台上，如
圖三(a)所示；再利用刮料器將漿料鋪平，形成
一薄膜面，如圖三(b)所示。此薄膜面即為雷射
光欲掃描之基準面；本研究之掃描系統是由
25W的CO2雷射管及振鏡式X-Y雷射掃描頭構
成。將支架設計圖轉換成線段相互重疊之二維
圖形，即形成欲雷射掃描之面積，如圖三(d)
所示；二維圖形經由雷射掃描後，Z軸平台則
下降一層，如圖三(c)所示，此層厚度為預鋪料
的厚度，原型機系統預設值設定為每層厚0.1 
mm。重複上述步驟，如圖五所示，即可堆疊
出三維立體支架結構圖。 
 
圖三 雷射掃描步驟示意圖 
3.3.4 測試方法與分析 
    製作五片厚 1.5 mm × 長 10 mm × 寬 10 
mm 之試片，原料為氫氧基磷灰石混合二氧化
矽溶膠(25：75 wt. %)，測試方法分別為固化、
雷射燒結，以及高溫加熱 800 ℃、1000 ℃、
1200 ℃，持溫兩小時。 
    漿料混合均勻後，置於黏度計中觀察其黏
稠度對時間的關係性；使用原子力顯微鏡
(Atomic Force Microscope, AFM)測試出表面
粗糙度；掃描式電子顯微鏡(Scanning Electron 
Microscope, SEM)觀察內部結構。 
4. 結果與討論 
4.1 生醫陶瓷漿料之黏稠度分析 
    以 HA 與二氧化矽溶膠依比例(25：75 
wt.%)混合均勻，使用黏度計測試漿料與時間
之相互關係。如圖四所示，漿料隨時間的增
長，黏度越黏稠；測試之結果，使用 10 rpm
 
5 
高溫加熱 均方根粗糙度
(Rq) 
平均粗糙
度(Ra) 
800℃ 49.855 nm 34.192 nm
1000℃ 202.831 nm 154.533 nm
1200℃ 651 nm 525 nm 
 
 
 
 
圖七 HA/Sol AFM 表面型態圖 
(a)加熱 800℃、(b)加熱 1000℃、(c)加熱 1200℃ 
4.5 細胞活性分析 
    骨 母 細 胞 為 骨 隨 中 的 骨 細 胞
(Osteoprogenitor cells)增生分化而成，位於硬
骨組織表面，有縫隙聯結構造，可與鄰近的造
骨細胞互相連結。培植類骨母細胞(Osteoblast- 
like cell)於未經高溫加熱試片之結果，如圖八
所示，為細胞在支架表面貼附四天後之光學密
度吸光值(Optical density, OD)。OD 值為單位
距離的物質對光線之吸收能力，細胞濃度與吸
光值成正比關係，即為，當吸光值越大，表示
細胞濃度越多。 
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0 1 2 3 4
O
.D
.
Days
 
圖八 細胞培養四天後吸光值圖 
5. 結論 
    以選擇性雷射固化(SLC)技術製作之支
架，成型性相較於其他製程較為簡易，使用二
氧化矽溶膠為黏結劑，因其特性使得成品孔洞
不造成堵塞。由 SEM 顯示出 HA 與 Silica 具
有互相融合之結合力，經由 CO2 雷射燒結過
後，因材料對雷射光的吸收率大，使得微觀結
構多處為固熔化狀態，但其緻密性有待加強；
經加熱至 1200 ℃時，其微觀結構已均勻的緻
密化，使支架機械性質加強。 
    AFM 顯示出，試片加熱至 1200 ℃具有較
高的緻密性，且使表面粗糙度增高，可使細胞
貼附於表面之數目越多。由實驗結果顯示出，
本研究之 SLC 技術，可製作出組織工程用之
支架模型，其孔洞範圍有待縮小符合細胞培植
增生之尺寸，而且經由 OD 值驗證，本製程方
法具有細胞附著增生之成效。 
參考文獻 
1. Cooper and Kenneth G., in: Rapid 
Prototyping Technology: Selection and 
Application, Mechanical engineering, 
(Marcel Dekker, New York, 2001) p. 1-4. 
2. P.F. Jacons, in: Rapid Prototyping & 
Manufacturing Fundamentals of Stereo- 
Lithography, Scociety of Manufacturing 
Engineers, (U.S.A., 1992) p. 381-416. 
3. 曾清秀，以快速原型方法製作組織工程用
支架，機械月刊第三十卷，第八期，2004。 
4. S.F. Hulbert, et. all, Elsevier Science 
Publishers B. V., (1987) 3-27. 
5. 郭啟全，快速原型技術於組織工程之支架
應用，機械月刊第三十卷，第十期，2004。 
6. 曾清秀，以快速原型方法製作組織工程用
支架，機械月刊第三十卷，第八期，2004。 
7. Chua C.K., Leong K.F. and Lim C.S., in: 
Rapid Prototyping: Principles & 
Applications, Second Edition, (World 
Scientific, Hoboken, U.S.A., 2003) p. 
35-193. 
8. C.S. Chai, and B. Ben-Nissan, J. Mater. Sci. 
  
  
Abstract—This paper describes a rapid prototyping (RP) 
technology for forming a hydroxyapatite (HA) bone scaffold model. 
The HA powder and a silica sol are mixed into bioceramic slurry form 
under a suitable viscosity. The HA particles are embedded in the 
solidified silica matrix to form green parts via a wide range of process 
parameters after processing by selective laser sintering (SLS). The 
results indicate that the proposed process was possible to fabricate 
multilayers and hollow shell structure with brittle property but 
sufficient integrity for handling prior to post-processing. The 
fabricated bone scaffold models had a surface finish of 25 μm, a 
dimensional shrinkage of 18 %, a maximum bending strength of 4.7 
MPa under the laser energy density of 1.5 J/mm2. Therefore, this 
process has a greater potential for fabrication bone scaffold in tissue 
engineering. 
 
Keywords—bioceramic, bone scaffold, rapid prototyping, 
selective laser sintering  
I. INTRODUCTION 
The commonly implants materials can be categorized into 
metals, polymers, and ceramics. The implants usually be 
attached on the bone with screw, which can cause the bone 
damage due to the stress concentrations [1]. However, 
bioactive materials can be attached by a more suitable method 
to form a secure physical bond with tissue surrounding the 
implantation [2]. In addition, bioceramics have been widely 
adapted as bone replacement materials due to their high 
biocompatibility properties [3, 4].  
The conventional implant fabrication processes have only a 
limited sample of implants for surgeons to choose [5]. A 
significant problem of these restrictions is the degree of skeletal 
adaptation. Therefore, a new method would be highly desirable 
to generate a model according to custom designed and to 
produce suit individual implants.   
On the other hand, the traditional processing methods 
require bone replacement materials to be mould and cut, which 
lack precise control over the internal architecture, such as pore 
size and pore shape [6]. In order to overcome these issues, the 
aim of this article is to generate tissue engineering scaffolds 
using the rapid prototyping (RP) technique with bioceramic 
 
F. H. Liu is with the Mechanical Engineering Department, Lunghwa 
University of Sci. and Tech., Taiwan, ROC. (phone: 8862-8209-3211#5114; 
e-mail: fhliu@mail.lhu.edu.tw).  
R. T. Lee is with the Mechanical Engineering Department, Lunghwa 
University of Sci. and Tech., Taiwan, ROC. (phone: 8862-8209-3211#5124; 
e-mail:leert@mail.lhu.edu.tw).  
W. S. Lin is with the Mechanical Engineering Department, Lunghwa 
University of Sci. and Tech., Taiwan, ROC. (phone: 8862-8209-3211#5151; 
e-mail: wslin@mail.lhu.edu.tw).  
Y. S. Liao is with the Mechanical Engineering Department, National Taiwan 
University, Taiwan, ROC. (phone: 8862-2362-6431; e-mail: 
liaoys@ntu.edu.tw).  
materials because the complex shape is easily to be built in this 
way.   
II.  METHODS AND MATERIALS   
A. Selective Laser Sintering 
Selective Laser Sintering (SLS) technique sinters powder 
materials to form a solid part by a laser beam according to the 
2D sliced patterns. By paving thin layers of powder based 
materials and repeating the laser sintering process, a three 
dimensional model is built layer by layer.  
In this work, a layer manufacturing process was developed 
for forming a hydroxyapatite (HA)-silica bioceramic green part. 
The process is implemented as shown in Figure 1, this process 
involves following steps: (a) the bioceramic powder and silica 
binder are blended as a raw material in ceramic slurry form, (b) 
the slurry is paved by a scraper onto the elevator to from a 
slurry thin layer, (c) the paved slurry layer is selective sintered 
via a CO2 laser beam, then a solid ceramic layer is formed, (d) 
the working platform is lowered by an elevator to the thickness 
of monolayer, (e) repeating steps (b) to (d), a multi-layer part is 
obtained by stacking solidified layers, (f) the residual slurries 
are removed and then a 3D bioceramic object is obtained [7].  
 
 
Fig. 1 Schematic of a manufacturing processes of selective 
laser sintering  
In the laser sintering process a range of parameters may be 
varied as follows: the laser power was varied from 5-25 W, the 
scan speed was ranged from 50-300 mm/s, the layer thickness 
was altered from 50-150μm, and the line overlap of the 
sintered ceramic was 1/2 of the laser beam width. While the 
spot size of laser beam was kept constant at 0.4 mm.  
 
F.H. Liu, S.H. Chen, R.T. Lee, W.S. Lin, Y.S. Liao   
Bioceramic Scaffolds Fabrication by Rapid Prototyping Technology 
  
 
 
Fig. 4 The bending strength with regard to laser energy density 
 
D. Fabrication Bone Scaffolds 
In this work, a feasible parameter window is as follows: 
laser power 10-20 W, laser scan velocity 50-300 mm/s, and 
layer thickness 50-100 μm. The suitable process parameters 
comprise a layers thickness of 100 μm, a laser power of 15 W, a 
scan velocity of 150 mm/s and a laser frequency of 10 KHz, we 
confirm the ability of the laser curing process to produce the 
HA green part of bone scaffold model with hollow shell 
structure in a fabricating time of 120 minutes. As shown in 
Figure 5, those bone models had a surface finish of 25 μm, a 
dimensional shrinkage of 18 %.  
 
 
 
Fig. 5 The HA bone scaffold model with hollow shell structure 
obtained by laser curing under layers thickness of 100 
μm, laser power of 15 W, scan velocity of 150 mm/s and 
a laser frequency of 10 KHz  
 
Figure 6 presents the SEM surface micrographs of a bone 
scaffold model displayed in Figure 5. It is evident that the HA 
particles are embedded in the solidified silica sol. The object of 
this paper is to confirm the feasibility of the laser curing 
process for fabricating HA bioceramic and to build an hollow 
shell structure with pores size in the range of 100-600μm to 
support the growth of bone [9]. As seen from the Figure 6, the 
SEM micrograph of the bioceramic bone models fabricated by 
this process demonstrated that this type of structure was being 
achieved. From this figure we can see that many porous with 
various shapes on the scaffold surface are formed in the 
bioceramic matrix, which can help the bone cell attach on the 
surface.  
 
 
Fig. 6 SEM surface image of the scaffold model fabricated by 
HA particles and cured silica   
 
IV. CONCLUSION    
The proposed process has three features. The first feature is 
the forming principle is a laser “curing effect”, thus it needs 
smaller laser energy to form the bioceramic models. The 
second feature is the bone scaffolds are faster fabricated by a 
layer additive manufacturing technique. The third feature is the 
bioceramic slurry is used as raw materials but other SLS 
processes adopt powder form material. Therefore, it is evident 
that the laser curing process is different from the traditional 
methods for forming bioceramic materials.  
 
REFERENCES 
[1] K. Xiao, K.W. Dalgarno, D.J. Wood, R.D. Goodridge, and 
C. Ohtsuki, Indirect selective laser sintering of 
apatite-wollostonie glass-ceramic, Journal of Engineering 
in Medicine, Vol. 222, 2008, pp.1107-1114. 
[2] P. Vincenzini, Mater. Sci. Monogr, Vol. 17, 1983, pp. 3. 
[3] L.A. Cyster, D.M. Grant, The influence of dispersant 
concentration on the pore morphology of hydroxyapatite 
ceramics for bone tissue engineering, Biomaterials, Vol. 
26, No. 7, 2005, pp.697-702.  
[4] A. Almirall, G. Larrecq, Fabrication of low temperature 
macroporous hydroxyapatite scaffolds by forming and 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/13
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 硬骨骼支架模型製造技術之研究
計畫主持人: 劉福興
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-262-003- 學門領域: 加工與製造 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 生醫陶瓷骨骼支架之建模方法及成型方法
(英文) METHOD AND FORMING METHOD OF BIO-CERAMIC BONE SCAFFOLD
成果歸屬機構
龍華科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
劉福興,倪翠妍
技術說明
(中文) 本發明之一範疇在於提供一種用以構關於一生醫陶瓷骨骼支架之一立體模型圖形
之建模方法。 
此外，本發明之另一範疇在於提供一種根據該立體模型圖形將該生醫陶瓷骨骼支
架之成型方法，並且以避免上述以往快速成型在製造上的問題。 
根據本發明之一較佳具體實施例的建模方法，該建模方法係用以建構關於一生醫
陶瓷骨骼支架之一立體模型圖形。特別地，與真實的骨骼支架相同，該生醫陶瓷
骨骼支架具有內部多連通孔結構。該建模方法首先係輸入該生醫陶瓷骨骼支架之
一立體尺寸。接著，該建模方法係根據該生醫陶瓷骨骼支架之該立體尺寸，建構
一空間。接著，該建模方法係設計至少一具有內部連通孔結構的立體模型單位元
素圖形。接著，該建模方法係於該空間內，複製該至少一立體模型單位元素圖形，
並鏈結該等且相鄰的立體模型單位元素圖形。最後，該建模方法係重複複製該立
體模型單位元素圖形並鏈結該等且相鄰的立體模型單位元素圖形之步驟，直至該
等複製的立體模型單位元素圖形填滿該空間。填滿該空間之該等複製的立體模型
單位元素圖形即構成關於該生醫陶瓷骨骼支架之該立體模型圖形。 
 
(英文) The invention provides a modeling method for creating a three-dimensional mould graph 
relative to a bio-ceramic bone scaffold, and a method of forming the bio-ceramic bone 
scaffold in accordance with the three-dimensional mould graph. In particular, like to a 
real bone scaffold, the bio-ceramic bone scaffold has an inter-connective porous structure.
產業別 醫療器材製造業
技術/產品應用範圍 可用於製造多孔性陶瓷骨骼支架
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
本研究所製作的陶瓷骨骼支架已完成類骨母細胞的培養,未來將進行動物實驗.
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
目前本研究成果,正與光弘科技有限公司洽談技術轉移. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
