  2
goods and services embedded within a series of discrete consumption experiences (Selen and 
Schepers, 2001). Examples include, among others, airlines, resort hotels, education and 
healthcare services. In the development of services, the flow of information takes on a crucial 
role. This information flow starts with customer expectations, which need to be translated into 
directed activities that trained people put into action so as to create value for the customer. 
This increasingly complex flow of information needs to be managed well and reflects a 
directed response to customer needs (Selen and Schepers, 2001). 
However, Chien and Su (2003) pointed out that many enterprises do not construct an 
effective evaluation system for reviewing customer satisfaction. Striving for customer 
satisfaction means understanding and anticipating what customer want of the products in the 
future (Mazler et al., 1996). In order to enhance customer satisfaction, many enterprises then 
increase the scope and amount of customer-needs’ data collection. When enterprises are faced 
with such massive amounts of data they often cannot make effective decisions. This not only 
wastes resources but also leaves questions towards the effectiveness of customer satisfaction 
activities. Although many of the past studies did focus on the issues of putting the customer 
requirements into the final product and/or service (Lu and Kuei, 1995; Ermer, and Kniper, 
1998; Tan, 1998; Hwarng and Teo, 2001), however they were still criticized the ambiguity in 
figuring out the customer needs (Bouchereau and Rowlands, 1999; Dube et al., 1999; Shen et 
al., 2000; Selen and Schepers, 2001). This implies that the customer needs should be carefully 
analyzed in terms of an effective service-system design approach for achieving total customer 
satisfaction. The present authors argue that to have a successful service-system design, a 
systematic approach is required. The functions of the systematic approach is to link with a 
comprehensive set of customer needs, the translation of these needs into service attributes, 
and the development of a properly designed service process. 
In this paper, an integrated approach based on the Kano’s model and QFD is proposed to 
help service enterprises understand the nature of the VOC (voice of customer) and make 
service-system design. Quality function deployment (QFD) is a powerful and structured tool 
for this purpose (Kogure and Akao, 1983). Total and effective customer satisfaction is the 
ultimate goal of QFD. The Kano model can be used to help differentiate among customer 
requirements and to obtain an imaginative understanding of customer needs (Eureka and Ryan, 
1994). In the following, the relevant literature on Kano and QFD’s fundamental structure and 
concepts will be first reviewed. An “integrated approach” will then be proposed to integrate 
Kano model and QFD methods. Finally, a case that involves the library service-system design 
will be presented to illustrate how the integrative approach can be implemented. 
2. Kano’s model 
Kano et al. (1984) proposed a model to investigate the functions and the features of a product 
which satisfying customers’ wants and needs. By doing so, the model therefore helps us 
evaluate the efficacy of an existing product to satisfy customer wants or develop a product 
concept that will ensure customer satisfaction. Kano suggests that in product planning, a firm 
should first identify functions and features that customers want in a product. It should then 
develop the product incorporating those functions and features so that the product provides 
the customer values to the maximum (Bhattacharyya and Rahman, 2004). In this model (see 
Figure 1), Kano et al. (1984) proposed a five-type of quality characteristics for a 
product/service in terms of customer satisfaction and requirement fulfilled. They are: (1) 
must-be requirements, (2) one-dimensional requirements, (3) attractive requirements, (4) 
indifferent requirements, and (5) reverse requirements. 
 
 
  4
attractive or must-be requirements but not the degree of satisfaction or dissatisfaction an 
attribute brings to customers. 
Table 1. Kano evaluation table 
Dysfuctional (negative) question Fuctional (positive) question (1) Like (2) Must be (3) Neutral (4) Live with (5) Dislike 
(1) Like Q A A A O 
(2) Must-be R I I I M 
(3) Neutral R I I I M 
(4) Live with R I I I M 
(5) Dislike R R R R Q 
Note: A: attractive, M: must-be, R: reverse, O: one-dimensional, Q: questionable, I: indifferent 
3. Quality Function Deployment 
Quality function deployment (QFD) is a customer-driven tool in implementing total quality 
management (TQM) (Guinta and Praizler, 1993; Kaulio, 1998). It is an overall concept that 
provides a means of translating customer requirements into the appropriate technical 
requirements for each stage of product development and production (Sullivan, 1986). Its 
power lies in the fact that it lays bare an organization’s processes and how these processes 
interact to create customer satisfaction and profit (Raynor, 1994). 
In order to translate the voice of the customer into the process of developing products 
and services, a matrix format is used. The first matrix, called the House of Quality (HOQ), is 
a product-planning matrix used to depict customer requirements, technical measures, target 
values, and competitive analyses (Eureka and Ryan, 1993). An HOQ is made up of several 
parts as discussed below (Tan and Pawitra, 2001). 
As Figure 2 shows, the left room of an HOQ lists the customer needs or requirements 
called the “Whats”. “Whats” are phrases that customers use to describe their needs. The needs 
are translated into corresponding “Hows” as shown in the upper room below the roof. The 
function of the “Hows” is to translate the “Whats” into terms that are measurable. After the 
“Whats” and the “Hows” have been identified, the next step is to specify their relationships in 
the body or correlation matrix of the HOQ. The correlation matrix shows the extent to which 
each “How” affects each “What”. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. The house of quality 
 
 
 
Correlation between the 
 “Whats” and the “Hows” 
Design requirement or “Hows” 
Priorities assigned to design requirements
 
 
 
Customer 
needs or 
“Whats” 
 
 
 
Priority 
assigned 
to 
customer 
needs 
Correlation between 
“Hows”
 
 
 
Competitive 
assessment 
  6
Some well-known methods include focus groups, interview and survey. Next is the gathering 
of customer satisfaction data. This is commonly achieved through surveys where customers 
are asked to rate their perception and expectancy of each service attribute. Concurrently with 
the customer requirements survey, customers’ opinions regarding the functional and 
dysfunctional aspects of the attributes are assessed also for preparing to conduct Kano model 
analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Framework for integrating Kano model into QFD 
4.2 Calculate the service gap score 
After acquisition of customer requirements, service gap score is then calculated by the gap 
between the perceived service and the expected service. Based on previous study from 
Parasuraman et al. (1985), the position of a customer’s perception of service quality depends 
on the nature of the discrepancy between the expected service (ES) and perceived service (PS). 
When ES>PS, perceived quality is less than satisfactory and will tend toward totally 
unacceptable quality, with increased discrepancy between ES and PS, when ES=PS, perceived 
quality is satisfactory, and when ES<PS, perceived quality is more than satisfactory and will 
tend to ward ideal quality, with increased discrepancy between ES and PS. The rationale here 
is that the larger the gap, the higher should be the priority for improvement.  
4.3 Kano model analysis 
Each identified customer requirement will be analysed on the basis of Kano’s model. This 
information is gathered via a Kano questionnaire that consists of pairs of one positive and one 
negative question in the stage of acquisition of customer requirements. Then, the service 
attributes are categorized as must-be, one-dimensional, attractive, indifferent, questionable, or 
reverse by Kano model analysis. Integration of the Kano’s model involves first determining 
the appropriate Kano category for each attribute. Then, multiplier values of “5”, “3”, and “1” 
are assigned to the attractive, one-dimensional, and must-be categories, respectively. The idea 
is to magnify the importance of higher-return attributes in increasing overall customer 
~ Acquisition of customer requirements  
y Gather customer satisfaction data 
y Construct the “Kano-questionnaire” 
~ Calculate the service gap score 
y Service gap score  
= perceived service–expected 
service 
~ Calculate adjusted importance into HOQ 
y Adjusted importance = service gap score ° value of Kano category 
~ Kano model analysis 
y Identify the Kano category 
“Attractive”, “one-dimensional”, 
and “must-be” 
y Define the Kano category value “5”,
“3”, or “1”
  8
Table 2. Case study results of library service 
 
Attribute 
Perceived service 
score 
Expected service 
score Service gap score Kano category
Library materials meet my needs 3.72 4.28 -0.56 O 
The staff are approachable and 
welcoming 3.69 4.27 -0.58 A 
The library provides well complaint 
handling 3.65 4.28 -0.63 O 
The library has enough copying 
machines 3.47 4.21 -0.74 I 
The library Web site enables me to 
access a variety of electronic 
resources 
3.71 4.17 -0.46 O 
The staff provide assistance to help 
me learn how to find information 3.77 4.27 -0.50 M 
Notes: A = attractive, O = one-dimensional, M = must-be, I = indifferent. Service gap score = Perceived service 
score–Expected service score) 
Figure 4 presents the HOQ with the Kano’s model incorporated. One attractive, three 
one-dimensional, and one must-be attribute are featured: “The staff are approachable and 
welcoming” (-0.58), “Library materials meet my needs” (-0.56), “The library provides well 
complaint handling” (-0.63), “The library Web site enables me to access a variety of 
electronic resources” (-0.46), and “The staff provide assistance to help me learn how to find 
information” (-0.50). All negative scores are considered and their absolute values are used. 
The other attribute with a negative score (i.e. “The library has enough copying machines”, 
score of - 0.98) was not included in the “Whats” list because it belonged to the indifferent 
Kano category. The “Hows” of Figure 4 are Yu-Da College of Business Library’s strategic for 
service-system design. 
In the traditional HOQ, the importance of each “How” is influenced by the importance of 
each “What”. The integrated approach uses the adjusted importance as a substitute for the 
importance of the “Whats” (see Column 3 of Figure 4). The introduction of the Kano 
categories with multipliers “5”, “3”, or “1”. Take the example of “The staff are approachable 
and welcoming”. In the HOQ, its service gap score is 0.58, while it becomes 2.90 (0.58°5) 
after incorporation of the Kano analysis. This customer need has now assumed greater priority 
for improvement. 
As a consequence of adjusting the importance scores of the “Whats”, the importance 
scores of the “Hows” are affected also. For example, as shown in Figure 4, the following 
strategies for meeting customer needs are affected by the customer need of “The staff are 
approachable and welcoming”:  
• Column 6–Maintain accessible communication channels (12.85).  
• Column 7–Train the staff members who must interface with the customers thoroughly 
(22.67).  
• Column 8–Check the user’s level of satisfaction with library service regularly (22.77). 
 
 
  10
Moving on to the integrating with QFD, information on service gap score and Kano 
category can be translated into specific and detailed working instructions and procedures. The 
importance scores of the customer needs receive an improved reprioritization. The entire 
approach to introducing and managing service attribute can be made more focused (i.e. 
attention to attractive service attributes), all leading to a comparatively higher likelihood of 
success. 
7. Future research 
Although the contributions of this paper are clear, the findings of the study must be utilized 
with caution because only one empirical case study was conducted to demonstrate how the 
integrated approach is implemented. Some issues are worthy of further exploration. First, a 
longitudinal study is suggested to investigate how library services have been influenced by 
the integrated approach. Secondly, it would be interesting to examine the use of the integrated 
approach in other type of library services. Finally, the appropriateness of implementing the 
integrated approach in profit organizations could also be investigated—including an 
investigation of the nature of the differences between the profit organizations and the 
non-profit organizations in implementing this integrated approach. 
References 
[1] Akao, Y., 1990, QFD: Integrating Customer Requirements into Product Design, 
Productivity Press, Cambridge, MA. 
[2] Akao, Y., 1997, “QFD- past, present and future. In: A. Gustafson, B. Bergman and F. 
Ekdahl (Eds)”, Proceedings of the Third Annual International QFD Symposium, Vol. 1 
(Linkoping, Sweden, Linkoping University), 19- 29. 
[3] Arnould, E. J. and Price, L., 1993, “River magic: extraordinary experience and the 
extended service encounter”, Journal of Consumer Research, 20(1), 24-45. 
[4] Bhattacharyya, S. K. and Rahman, Z., 2004, “Capturing the customer’s voice, the 
centerpiece of strategy making: A case study in banking”, European Business Review, 
16(2), 128-138. 
[5] Bouchereau, V. and Rowlands, H., 1999, “Analytical approaches to QFD”, 
Manufacturing Engineering, December, 249-254. 
[6] Chen, C. K., Yu, C. H. and Chang, H. C., 2005, “An empirical analysis of 
customer-oriented service activities in the Taiwanese public sector”, Total Quality 
Management and Business Excellence, 16 (7), 887-901. 
[7] Chien, T. K. and Su, C. T., 2003, “Using QFD concept to resolve Customer Satisfaction 
strategy decision,” International Journal of Quality and Reliability Management, 20(3), 
345-359.  
[8] Cristiano, J. J., Liker, J. K. and White III, C. C., 2000, “Customer-driven product 
development through quality function deployment in the U.S. and Japan”, The Journal of 
Product Innovation Management, 17(4), 286-318. 
[9] Deighton, J., 1994, Managing services when the service is performance. In: R. T. Rust 
and R. L. Oliver (Eds.), Service Quality: New Directions in Theory and Practice 
(Thousand Qaks, CA, Sage Publications), 123-138. 
[10] Dube, L. and Morgan, M. S., 1996, “Trend effects and gender differences in retrospective 
judgments of consumption emotions”, Journal of Consumer Research, 23(2), 156-162. 
[11] Dube, L., Johnson, M. D. and Renaghan, L. M., 1999, “Adapting the QFD approach to 
extended service transactions”, Production and Operations Management, 8(3), 301-317. 
[12] Ermer, D. S. and Kniper, M. K., 1998, “Delighting the customer: Quality function 
deployment for quality service design”, Total Quality Management, 9(4/5), S86-S91. 
[13] Eureka, W. E. and Ryan, N. E., 1994, The Customer-Driven Company: Managerial 
Perspective on QFD, ASI Press, Dearborn, MI. 
