 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫期中進度報告 
應用於電磁相容之多層平板吸波結構之研究  
Study of layered-slab wave-absorbing structure for electromagnetic compatibility 
applications  
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-224-017 
執行期限：99/08/01~100/07/31 
主  持  人：許崇宜 (雲林科技大學 電機系) 
共同主持人：林明星 (雲林科技大學 電機系) 
 
中文摘要：本計畫已經在雲林科技大學的電磁相容實驗室，建立量測有損材質的電磁參數的能力，
並建立設計(或合成)層狀平板吸波結構的能力。對於前者，我們先委託廠商製作同軸校正製具，
以及同軸樣品量測製具(coaxial sample holder)，以便量測單一待測材質的兩端口散射參數，再
以 NRW 演算法進行電磁參數的萃取(或反推)。對於後者，首先，選定吸收特性的目標值，把從廠
商處取得的已經萃取電磁參數的吸收體試片做適當的排列組合，算出每一種排列組合所對應的
cost 與 merit 數值，挑出較佳的組合進行量測驗證。其次，針對每一種組合，以粒子群最佳化演
算法找出最佳的材料試片厚度，因為廠商無法提供我們計算的試片厚度，這一部分僅以模擬結果
呈現。 
關鍵詞: 電磁相容、電磁屏蔽、吸波結構、粒子群最佳化演算法。 
 
Abstract –In this project, we have established at the EMC Lab at National Yunlin University of Science 
and Technology the capability of measuring the electromagnetic (EM) constitutive parameters of a lossy 
material, and the capability of designing a layered wave-absorbing slab using lossy materials with 
known constitutive parameters. For the first part, we have had two coaxial sample holders and a coaxial 
TRL calibration kit fabricated by a manufacturer. With the coaxial folders and kit available, we have 
successfully measured the two-port scattering parameters of several absorbing samples donated by some 
vendors. These scattering parameters have been used to extract the EM constitutive parameters of the 
samples by using the NRW algorithm. For the second part, we first specified a particular wave-absorbing 
criterion; then computed the cost and merit values for each of the all possible combinations of various 
different samples that constitute the layered wave-absorbing structure and whose EM constitutive 
parameters have been extracted using the capability established in the first part of the project. The best 
set of sample combination was subsequently measured and validated by simulation. Finally, for each 
particular set of sample combination, we employed a particle swamp optimization algorithm to search 
for optimal thicknesses for the layered structure. However, because the absorber vendors cannot 
fabricate material samples with the special thicknesses we requested, only simulated results were 
presented.  
Keywords: electromagnetic compatibility, electromagnetic shielding, wave-absorbing structure, particle 
swamp optimization. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
In modern microwave applications, wave-absorbing structures (or RF absorbers), which can absorb 
the electromagnetic (EM) energy penetrating into them, were frequently applied to solve the 
electromagnetic interference (EMI) problems [1], to used as radar absorbing materials (RAMs) [2] , to 
reduce the specific absorption rate (SAR) [3], to improve the antenna performance [4], and to design an 
anechoic chamber [5], [6]. The general requirements and properties of RF absorbers [7] are dependent 
on the frequency of operation, the extent of absorption, the power-handling capabilities, the geometry 
considerations, and the feasibility of fabrications. The well-performed RF absorbers became a research 
goal in the material science. Therefore, it is important to establish the measurement and analysis 
techniques for designing RF absorbers.  
Before designing a layered wave-absorbing slab, one should first characterize the materials at hand 
as accurately as possible. Techniques for measuring electromagnetic (EM) constitutive parameters of a 
material at microwave frequencies can be found in [8], which presents several possible measurement 
 3
TRL calibration [14] can set the reference planes of the measurement at the two end surfaces of the 
chamber that holds the MUT in the sample holder. Fig. 2 shows the detailed longitudinal-sectional view 
of the coaxial system. For convenience, let the chamber in the sample holder that can hold the MUT be 
referred to as the sample area. Two different sample holders, one whose sample area has a thickness of 
to 1 mm and the other 2 mm, have been made available. The attachments of the standards for “through,” 
“reflect,” and “line” in the TRL calibration kit are illustrated in Figs. 3, 4, and 5, respectively. Two 
“line” standards with line lengths 107.1 mm and 17.8 mm are designed for the frequency ranges of 
0.21.2 GHz and 1.26 GHz, respectively.  
After the TRL calibration is done, one can obtain the scattering parameters ( 11S , 21S , 12S , and 
22S ) of the MUT, from which the EM constitutive parameters can be readily extracted using the NRW 
algorithm to be discussed in the next section. For RF-wave-absorbing applications, absorbers are usually 
coated on a metal to reduce the wave reflected from the metal. For that purpose, the performance of the 
absorber can be characterized by 11|S |  (or return loss) acquired from the measurement setup shown in 
Fig. 6. Note that all fixtures used in these measurements, including several standards in the coaxial TRL 
calibration kit, were custom made and were fabricated by a mechanical manufacturer.  
 
Fig. 2. Longitudinal-sectional view of the sample holder for two-port measurement. 
 
  
Fig. 3. “Through” in the TRL calibration. 
 
  
Fig. 4. “Reflect” in the TRL calibration. 
 
   
Fig. 5. “Line” in the TRL calibration. 
 5
 
  
Fig. 7. A multi-layered RF absorbing slab. 
 
 
In the applications of reducing the wave reflected from a metal, wave absorbers are usually placed 
on the metal in question. This is in fact the main concern of the present study. For such a case, the 
medium in layer M+1 is metal, and only the reflection property of the structure is to be studied. Eq. (5) 
can still be used as long as we set 1M  

 in the computation.  
For the design of layered wave-absorbing slab consisting of commercial absorbers of specified 
thicknesses, we must preselect a desired reflection response. The simplest response criterion is a 
constant reflection coefficient within a specified band. That is to say, the reflection coefficients of the 
designed layered slab should have be smaller than the criterion for L Hf f f  , where Lf  and Lf  
are the lower and upper edges of the desired operating band of the slab. If two or more than two different 
designs meet the criterion, we must assign each of them a different priority. For that purpose, we can 
first define the cost (merit) of the reflection response of a metal-backed layered slab as the area of the 
horizontally (vertically) hashed region, for which the reflection curve is larger (smaller) than the 
predetermined criterion (see Fig. 8). Among the designs having a zero cost, the one with the largest 
merit will be regarded as the optimal (or best) design. If all the designs have nonzero costs, the one with 
the smallest cost will be regarded as the best design, although the criterion is not met through the entire 
frequency band of interest. 
If the thicknesses of the commercial absorbers are allowed to change, a global optimization method 
can be employed to find the optimal set of thicknesses in a layered wave-absorbing slab. In this study, 
we have found that particle swamp optimization (PSO) is more robust than are genetic algorithms and 
recursive Taguchi’s method, and hence will be employed for such a mission throughout. For conciseness, 
detailed algorithms that can be found in [18] and [19] will not be presented further in this report.  
 
 
Fig. 8. Reflection curve of a layered slab backed by a metal for defining values of cost and merit. 
 
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
A. Extraction of material parameters 
Several material samples of various thicknesses have been acquired from (in fact, donated by) 
some RF-absorber vendors. For illustration, four of them are listed in Table 1. For conciseness, we only 
show the measured scattering parameters, extracted EM constitutive parameters, computed absorption 
properties, and measured absorption properties for the first two types of samples. The measured 
scattering parameters for sample AB1500 and sample CNH4590 are presented in Figs. 9 and 10, 
 n 1

n
 0Z 1Z nZ 1nZ 

nZ 1

nZ
y
x
zMZ
1t nt 1nt  Mt
11| | (dB)S
frequency
criterion
Lf Hf
0 dB
 7
 
Fig. 10 Scattering parameters of sample CNH4590 with thickness 2 mm: (a) magnitude and (b) phase. 
 
Fig. 11 NRW-extracted EM parameters of sample AB1500 from the scattering parameters in Fig. 9. 
(a) r r rj      and (b) r r rj       
 
Fig. 12 NRW-extracted EM parameters of sample CNH4590 from the scattering parameters in Fig. 10. 
(a) r r rj      and (b) r r rj      
 
Fig. 13 Simulated and measured wave absorption of sample AB5100 with thickness (a) 1 mm and (b) 2 
mm. Vendor-supplied wave absorption for the 1-mm-thick sample is also included.  
 9
Table 3 Layered slab with 1-mm-thick samples for return losses of greater than 4 dB in 1-4 GHz. 
no of 
layers layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 cost merit Priority 
3 Quinetech-G Quinetech-D AB1500 0 2145 1 
3 Quinetech-G Quinetech-D CNH4590 0 2003 2 
2 Quinetech-G AB1500 none 0 1728 3 
 
 
Fig. 16 Simulated wave absorption for the three layered-slab constructions in Table 2 and the 
measured wave absorption for the first slab construction.  
 
 
Fig. 17 Simulated wave absorption for the three layered-slab constructions in Table 3 and the 
measured wave absorption for the third slab construction. 
 
C. Design of layered absorbing slab with adjustable thicknesses using particle swamp optimization 
 Next, we use the same four absorbing samples to design a layered absorbing slab with the 
thickness of each individual sample adjustable. The same number of structural topologies, i.e., 64, will 
be tried in simulation. For each topology, PSO was employed to find the optimal set of thicknesses so 
that the associated return loss best meet the desired specification. From the 64 optimal constructions, 
priorities are assigned according to their corresponding values of cost and merit using the rule stated in 
the previous subsection. Unfortunately, absorbing material suppliers are not able to provide us with the 
samples with the thicknesses of our need. Hence, measurement verification cannot be performed for this 
kind of design. Consider the example where the return losses of the layered slab must be greater than 10 
dB in 2.39-2.7 GHz, which completely covers the WLAN and WiMAX bands. The constructions with 
the four highest priorities in PSO-simulated results are listed in Table 4 and presented in Fig. 18.  
 
Table 4 Layered slab using PSO for return losses of greater than 10 dB in 2.39-2.7 GHz. 
layer 1 layer 2 no of 
layers sample thickness (mm) sample thickness (mm) cost merit Priority
1 Quinetech-D 2.4396 none  0 89.5 1 
2 Quinetech-D 1.7397 Quinetech-G 0.8745 0 33.4 2 
2 Quinetech-G 0.8206 Quinetech-D 1.4531 0 12.4 3 
2 Quinetech-D 1.8779 CNH4590 0.499 0.34 5.99 4 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
