 2
Coding, Encoding and Decoding. 
三、計畫緣由與目的 
The ever-growing demand for Internet bandwidth 
and recent advances in optical Wavelength Division 
Multiplexing (WDM) and wireless technologies 
brings about fundamental changes in the design and 
implementation of the next generation networks. To 
support end-to-end data transport, there are three 
types of networks: wide-area long-haul backbone 
network, metropolitan core network, and local and 
access networks. First, due to steady traffic resulting 
from high degree of multiplexing, next-generation 
long-haul networks are based on the Optical Circuit 
Switching (OCS) technology by simply making 
relatively static WDM channel utilization. Second, a 
metropolitan core network behaves as transitional 
bandwidth distributors between the optical Internet 
and access networks. Unlike long-haul backbone 
networks, metro networks exhibit highly dynamic 
traffic demand, rendering static WDM channel 
utilization completely infeasible. Finally, access 
networks are responsible for providing bandwidth 
directly to end-users. Two most promising 
technologies have been optical access and wireless 
access networks, respectively. Due to superior 
performance of fiber optics and tremendous 
bandwidth demand, providing broadband access and 
services through optical access technology becomes 
indispensable. Finally, regarding wireless access 
networks, the new demand of wireless 
communications in recent years inspires a quick 
advance in wireless transmission technology. 
Technology blossoms in both high-mobility low-bit- 
rate and low-mobility high-bit-rate transmissions. 
Apparently, the next challenge in wireless 
communications would be to reach high transmission 
rate under high mobility. 
The main objective of this integrated project is the 
provision of the basic transport and QoS guarantees 
over metropolitan optical and wireless access 
networks interconnected via optical metro core 
backbone networks. As shown in Figure 1, Subproject 
1 (PI: Prof. Maria Yuang) is responsible for the 
design, analyses, and testbed construction of 
packet-directly- over-WDM metro core networks; 
Subproject 2 (PI: Po-Ning Chen) focuses on the 
systematical design of an error- correcting code that 
can at the same time equalizes channel effect, and 
bit-wise soft-decision decoding for the prevailing 
symbol-based modulation scheme for future high 
speed transmission; Subproject 3 (PI: Prof. Chung-Ju 
Chang) aims at the design and analyses of optical 
access networks including OBS- based optical 
transport with QoS guarantees, traffic grooming, and 
Ethernet over Passive Optical Network (EPON) and 
finally Subproject 4 (PI: Prof. Y. C. Chen) then 
investigates QoS enabling technology under a high 
mobility wireless environment, in an attempt to 
Figure 1. Relationship between sub-projects. 
Optical Metro
Core Network
(Prof. M. C. Yuang )
Wireless
Access
(Prof. Y. C. Chen )
(Prof. P. N. Chen )
High Mobility
• Encoding (Prof. P. N. Chen)
• QoS enabling technology for 
high mobility (Prof. Y. C. Chen)
Optical
Access
(Prof. C. J. Chang )
FTTx
• QoS-Guaranteed in Metro-
Access Ring Network
• Scheduling Algorithm for 
EPON
Optical Metro Core Network
• Optical Metro Core 
Technology
• Traffic Eng. and Traffic 
Control
• Testbed Construction
 4
OBS undergoes several orders of magnitude increase 
in packet loss probability for Class H traffic 
particularly under a smaller burst size. As opposed to 
OBS, the in-band-controlled-based OCPS network 
was shown to provide invariably superior packet loss 
performance for a high priority traffic class, enabling 
effective facilitation of loss class differentiation. 
In the second year, our major traffic engineering 
challenge in such WDM networks has been the 
Routing and Wavelength Assignment (RWA) 
problem [6,7]. The problem deals with routing and 
wavelength assignment between source and 
destination nodes subject to the 
wavelength-continuity constraint [8] in the absence of 
wavelength converters. It has been shown that RWA 
is an NP-complete problem [8]. Numerous 
approximation algorithms [6,7] have been proposed 
with the aim of balancing the trade-off between 
accuracy and computational time complexity. In 
general, some algorithms [9,10] focused on the 
problem in the presence of sparse, limited, or 
full-range wavelength converters. Some others made 
an effort to either reduce computational complexity 
by solving the routing and wavelength assignment 
sub-problems separately [8], or increase accuracy by 
considering the two sub-problems [11] jointly. 
However, with the multi-granularity switching 
capability taken into consideration, most existing 
algorithms become functionally or economically 
unviable. 
Our aim is to resolve the RWA problem in 
multi-granularity WDM networks particularly with 
Fiber Switch Capable (FSC-OXC) and Lambda 
Switch Capable (LSC-OXC) devices. It is worth 
mentioning that, as shown in Figure 4, an MG-OXC 
node is logically identical to an individual FSC-OXC 
node in conjunction with an external separated 
LSC-OXC node. For ease of illustration, we adopt the 
separated node form throughout the rest of the report. 
The problem is in short referred to as RWA+. 
In this sub-project, we have resolved a RWA+ 
problem using the LRH method, which is a 
Lagrangean Relaxation based approach augmented 
with an efficient primal heuristic algorithm. With the 
aid of generated Lagrangean multipliers and lower 
bound indexes, the primal heuristic algorithm of LRH 
achieves a near-optimal upper-bound solution. A 
performance study delineated that the performance 
trade-off between accuracy and convergence speed 
can be manipulated via adjusting the Quiescence 
Threshold parameter in the algorithm. We have drawn 
comparisons of accuracy and computation time 
between LRH and the Linear Programming 
Relaxation (LPR)-based method, under three random 
networks. Experimental results demonstrated that, 
particularly for small to medium sized networks, the 
LRH approach using a termination requirement 
profoundly outperforms the LPR method and 
fixed-iteration-based LRH, in both accuracy and 
computational time complexity. Furthermore, for 
large sized network (ARPA network), numerical 
results showed that LRH achieves a near optimal 
solution within acceptable computation time. The 
above numerical results justify that the LRH approach 
can be used as a dynamic RWA+ algorithm for small 
to medium sized networks, and as a static RWA+ 
algorithm for large sized networks. 
In the last year, we center on the design and 
experimentation of a high-performance MAC 
schemes achieving superior bandwidth access 
efficiency and different QoS guarantees in the ring 
topology. The future optical Metropolitan Area 
Networks (MANs) are expected to employ optical 
packet switching to cost-effectively support a wide 
range of heterogeneous traffic with different 
time-varying and high bandwidth demand. Optical 
Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) has been 
(a) An MG-OXC node 
MG-OXC 
(B) 
A 
C 
FSC-OXC 
(B1) 
LSC-OXC
(B2)
A
C
Figure 4. A combined MG-OXC node and its 
logically identical separated node form.
(b) FSC-OXC and LSC-OXC nodes
 6
high-bit-rate transmission under high mobility is the 
seemingly highly time-varying channel characteristic 
due to movement; such a characteristic enforces the 
dependence between consecutive symbols, and further 
effects the difficulty in compensating the intersymbol 
interference. In principle, the temporal channel 
memory can be eliminated by an intersymbol space 
longer than the channel memory spread. An example 
is the IEEE 802.11a standard, in which 0.8-µs 
“intersymbol space” is added between two 
consecutive 3.2-µs OFDM symbols to combat any 
delay spread less than 800 nano seconds. In order to 
take advantage of the circular convolution technique, 
the 0.8-µs “intersymbol space” is designed to be the 
leading 0.8-µ portion of the 3.2-µs OFDM symbol, 
which is often named the cyclic prefix [23]. Motivated 
by this, we experiment on a different view in the 
neutralization of channel memory, where the 
“intersymbol space” may be of use to enhance the 
system performance. 
In order to examine the performance of our 
proposed system, we tempted to establish the capacity 
of the time-varying fading channel experimented. 
There have been several publications investigating the 
capacity of fading channels. The capacity of the flat 
Rayleigh fading channel has been studied in [24] 
under the assumption that the state of channel fading 
is perfectly known to both the transmitter and the 
receiver. While neither the transmitter nor the receiver 
knows the channel state information (CSI), 
investigation of the capacity of memoryless Rayleigh 
fading channels can be found in [25]. 
In this year, there are two questions on which we 
concentrate. The first is to experiment on a different 
view in the neutralization of channel memory, where 
the “intersymbol space” may be of use to enhance the 
system performance. The second question that the 
research aims at is that what the capacity of a 
time-varying channel, like Gauss-Markov [26,27], is. 
Seldom publications have been emerged in the 
capacity study of Gauss-Markov channels. The 
understanding of this quantity helps the researchers to 
be fully understood of the gap between a transmission 
scheme and the underlying limit. 
Based on the result of last year, the aims of this 
year are to design channel codes which have been 
considered the statistics properties of fading channels. 
In this work, we take the PCCC code and its 
respective iterative MAP decoder as a test vehicle to 
experiment on the idea that the temporal channel 
memory can be weakened to nearly blockwise 
time-independence by the insertive transmission of 
“random bits” of sufficient length between two 
consecutive blocks, for which these “random bits” are 
actually another parity check bits generated due to 
interleaved information bits. The simulation results 
show that the metrics derived based on blockwise 
independence with 2-bit blocks periodically separated 
by a single parity-check bit from the second 
component RSC encoder perform close to the 
CSI-aided decoding scheme, and is at most 0.9 dB 
away from the Shannon limit at BER = 2 × 10−4 when 
h0 = 1 and 2vσ  = 0.001. The result of the first part 
has been prepared for submission to IEEE 
communication letters. A natural future work is to 
extend the channel memory to higher order, and 
further examine whether the same idea can be applied 
to obtain well-acceptable system performance.  
In the second part, we have remarked on four 
different definitions of channel capacities according 
to the transmitter/receiver with/without channel state 
information. We then turn to the derivation of the 
independent bounds for the channel capacity without 
CSI in both transmitter and receiver. We then found 
that if there is no LOS signal existing, the capacity of 
the blind-CSI system will be reduced to zero. 
On the last year, we demonstrate the well 
performance of PCCC code by considering the 
statistical properties of Gauss-Markov fading Figure 7. Iterative MAP algorithm. 
 8
voice service. With the decreased delay, the 
maximum cycle time can be extended to improve the 
performance of system throughput. 
In the simulation, we can see that the moving 
average method can not perfectly estimate the 
behavior of self-similar traffic. Because the variation 
of self-similar traffic is large, the predictor will over 
estimate frequently. However, the prediction of 
real-time traffic results in an extended cycle time. 
When the cycle time is extended, the system 
throughput can be improved more, compare with 
non-prediction-based scheme. Thus, we believe the 
moving average is a cost-effective solution to 
improve the system throughput in EPON 
environment. 
The second field is QoS-promoted dynamic 
bandwidth allocation (Q-DBA) for ethernet passive 
optical networks. We proposed a Q-DBA method to 
allocate bandwidth with three classes of packets, 
voice, video, and data based on the priorities from the 
highest to the lowest step by step. Thus, Q-DBA sets 
the voice packets to be the first priority, and the video 
packets’ priority is changed from the fifth priority into 
the third priority when the video packets’ delay 
criterion will be violated at the end of next cycle. To 
sustain the video dropping probability, the priority of 
video packets can be raised to the second priority in 
further. Although data packets do not have any delay 
constraint, they still should not be sacrificed. The 
Q-DBA also raises the priority of data packets, which 
is from the sixth priority to the fourth priority when 
the waiting time of data packet exceeds the waiting 
bound. It can avoid the data packets from being in the 
starvation condition. Furthermore, the bandwidth of 
the fiber link is totally allocated to make the system 
fully utilized.  
The simulation results show that the Q-DBA has a 
better performance than DBAM and the QoS of voice 
packets are also fully guaranteed. The delay time of 
video packets is almost below the video delay 
criterion and the dropping probability of video 
packets is also guaranteed. Besides, the data packets 
are transmitted without being in the starvation 
condition. Above that, the Q-DBA can support most 
of the system load without violating the QoS 
requirements. In addition, with the development of 
WDM, the proposed Q-DBA method may be adapted 
to manage the resource in the EPONs, and customers 
can get the most benefits. 
The third field is computation-efficient algorithms 
for dynamic traffic grooming in metro-access ring 
network. In this field, we solve the problem of 
dynamic traffic grooming and wavelength assignment 
in metro-access ring network. The goal is to 
effectively maximize the utilization efficiency of the 
wavelength used and reduce the new call blocking 
rate. We present the ILP formulation for the problem. 
In order to solve this problem, we propose STGA 
algorithm to obtain the optimal solution. However, 
the STGA algorithm is infeasible due to its 
computation complexity. Alternatively, we propose a 
heuristic algorithm-based HTGA algorithm. Although 
the HTGA algorithm is a suboptimal solution, the 
computation complexity of the HTGA is much lower 
than that of the STGA.  
From the simulation comparisons between the two 
algorithms in the same environment, we can 
summarize the pros and cons of the STGA and HTGA 
algorithm. For STGA algorithm, the advantage is that 
it can attain an optimal solution while the 
disadvantage is that the computation complexity and 
the number of rearranged lightpaths are large. On the 
other hand, for HTGA algorithm, the advantage is that 
the computation complexity and the number of 
rearranged lightpaths are small while the disadvantage 
is that it just can obtain sub-optimal solution. 
However, the disadvantage of the HTGA algorithm is 
accepted because the gap of the throughput utilization 
is just less than 10%. Therefore, the HTGA algorithm 
is a feasible and attractive algorithm. 
Besides, another advantage of the HTGA can be 
observed in various environments. Simulation results 
show that the throughput gap between the two 
algorithms is no more than 10% in all the three 
scenarios. Thus, we can conclude that the 
performance of the HTGA algorithm does not 
deteriorate substantially in various network 
configurations, including different network size, mean 
 10
node to the new FA. 
We evaluate the proposed scheme with network 
simulator [36] and have the following observation. 
Comparing with the original mobile IP mechanism, 
Speedy handover features a fewer number of packet 
losses and a shorter handover period. The simulation 
results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed 
scheme. 
In the second year, we design a two-stage 
authentication scheme to enhance the performance of 
wireless handover. Since wireless local area networks 
have become extremely popular in recent years. The 
wireless services may encounter some problems under 
different environments, and there are more emerging 
multimedia streaming applications being developed. 
When users of these applications move from the 
coverage area of one AP to the other, the services 
must be handed over in approximately 150 
milliseconds, otherwise the user will experience the 
jitter. If the handoff time is much larger than 150ms, 
the quality would be getting worse. This noticeable 
problem needs to be solved. Many approaches have 
been proposed from different aspects to reduce the 
handoff impact. Some focus on layer 2 handoff to 
reduce the scan, authentication and association 
latency. Others focus on layer 3 handoff to alleviate 
the registration and authentication time. The typical 
solution for reducing handoff time is Hierarchical 
Mobile IP with Fast handover protocol [37]. Fast 
handover protocol [38] needs layer 2 information to 
early trigger the handoff and it spends approximately 
100ms which is much smaller than 3 seconds required 
by original Mobile IP. This small handoff period 
allow us to provide a multimedia streaming service 
during handoff without suffering jitter problem.  
Besides handoff, security and authentication 
issues also become more important nowadays. If we 
like to enhance the security or to perform 
authentication, it will add a certain amount of handoff 
time in addition to the original layer 2 and layer 3 
handoff. This is a tradeoff between authentication and 
QoS, and we need some method to minimize the 
impact if we add authentication process on it. Fast 
handover could provide better QoS for roaming 
devices, based on this advantage, we construct a user 
authentication signaling that allows the access router 
to authenticate the mobile node (MN). 
To achieve low latency handoff, we make use of 
pre-registration signaling called fast handover 
protocol to piggyback user’s information to 
authenticate with new target AP temporarily for 
reducing the authentication time during handoff 
period, it is called “two-stage authentication” as 
shown in Figure 11. Our two-stage authentication 
scheme consists of pre-authentication and formal 
authentication.  
A mobile node needs to perform AAA/Mobile IP 
[39] initial registration when it enters into the new 
MAP (Mobility Anchor Point) domain. The Home 
Agent generates keys and authenticates the mobile 
node when it receives the AAA/Mobile IP registration 
message. Then, the Home Agent replies the 
registration to the mobile node through MAP, which 
then checks the authentication status, signs a 
certificate CAMAP and adds group key for the mobile 
node into registration reply message. The mobile node 
derives the CAMAP after performing the AAA/Mobile 
IP registration. Then, the mobile node moves from 
PAR (Previous Access Router) to NAR (New Access 
Router), it triggers the pre-registration called fast 
handover signaling to reduce the registration time. We 
try to make use of this signaling to piggyback some 
information to pre-authenticate the MN with new Figure 11. L3-FHR & Two-Stage message flow.
 12
術研發；子計畫三於被動式光纖網路(PON)之下，
根據訊務流量模式，研發預測式排程法；子計畫四
探討無限網路漫遊之交遞問題，設計出快速交遞演
算法。 
計畫的第二年延續著在第一年所獲致之經驗，
各子計畫皆有豐碩成果。子計畫一在光纖都會核心
網路上，完成了路由與波長分配(RWA+)之關鍵技
術；子計畫二在無線環境之下，編解碼技術有重大
突破；子計畫三在EPON網路上，以新排程法有效
提升系統效能；及子計畫四透過兩階段認證機制，
在無線漫遊可達到快速交遞之結果。 
於計畫的第三年，開始朝向光纖都會環狀網路
架構進行設計，子計畫一架構了HOPSMAN環狀網
路並提出媒體接取控制(MAC)技術；子計畫二利用
平行串接旋積編碼技術，有效提升系統效能；子計
畫三提出STGA演算法解決動態訊務彙集的問題；
子計畫四則是提出了「不連續掃描」機制來提供偵
測交遞對象資訊的功能且排除舊有方法之不實用
的缺點。 
此三年之研究成果已投稿或發表於國際會議與
期刊，並有十篇碩博士生畢業論文產生，論文成果
如下： 
z 四篇期刊論文 
1. IEEE Journal of Selected Areas in 
Communications：三篇 
2. IEEE Transaction on Wireless 
Communications：一篇 
z 四篇會議論文 
1. International Conference on Informatics, 
Cybernetics and Systems (ICICS’2003)：一篇 
2. IEEE Asia-Pacific Conference on Circuits and 
Systems (APCCS‘2004)：一篇 
3. International Conference on Internet 
Technologies and Applications (ITA 2005)：一
篇 
4. IEEE/OSA European Conference on Optical 
Communication (ECOC’2006)：一篇 
z 一篇博士論文 
z 九篇碩士論文 
然而，目前網路上面的訊務型態呈現多元化的
現象，除了傳統資料傳輸之外，語音以及視訊等即
時性資料亦須特別考量。加上環狀網路的特性，使
得頻寬可進行再利用(bandwidth reuse)。 
在接下來的三年期計畫，我們將針對以光纖都
會網狀/環狀網路為主幹，而能支援無線擷取網路與
光纖擷取網路之基本傳輸及服務品質保證(QoS)之
技術來進行研究。 
六、參考文獻 
[1] M. Yuang, J. Shih, and P. Tien, “Traffic Shaping 
for IP-over-WDM Networks based on Optical 
Coarse Packet Switching Paradigm,” in Proc. 
European Conference on Optical 
Communication (ECOC), 2003. 
[2] F. Callegati, G. Corazza, and C. Raffaelli, 
“Exploitation of DWDM for Optical Packet 
Switching with Quality of Service Guarantees,” 
IEEE J. Select. Areas Commun., vol. 20, no. 1, 
Jan. 2002, pp. 190-201. 
[3] M. Yoo, C. Qiao, and S. Dixit, “Optical Burst 
Switching for Service Differentiation in the Next 
Generation Optical Internet,” IEEE Comm. Mag., 
vol. 39, no. 2, Feb. 2001, pp. 98-104. 
[4] E. Mannie, et al., “Generalized Multi-Protocol 
Label Switching (GMPLS) Architecture,” 
draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-architecture-03.txt, Feb. 
2003, work in progress. 
[5] L. Yang, Y. Jiang, and S. Jiang, “A Probabilistic 
Preemptive Scheme for Providing Service 
Differentiation in OBS Networks,” in Proc. 
IEEE GLOBECOM, 2003. 
[6] R. Ramaswami, and K. Sivarajan, Optical 
Networks- A Practical Perspective, 2nd Edition, 
Morgan Kaufmann, 2002. 
[7] B. Mukherjee, Optical Communication Networks, 
McGraw-Hill, 1997. 
[8] D. Banerjee, and B. Mukherjee, “A Practical 
Approach for Routing and Wavelength 
Assignment in Large Wavelength-Routed Optical 
Networks,” IEEE J. Select. Areas Commun., vol. 
14, no. 5, Sep. 1996, pp. 903-908. 
[9] C. Xiaowen, L. Bo, and I. Chlamtac, 
“Wavelength Converter Placement under 
Different RWA Algorithms in 
Wavelength-Routed All-Optical Networks,” 
IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 51, no. 4, April 2003, 
pp. 607-617. 
[10] H. Qin, S. Zhang, and Z. Liu, “Dynamic Routing 
