1.1 Related Work
Most numerical algorithms for computing ship
motions are based on the strip theory, developed
in [1]. These algorithms calculate ship motions
by solving highly non-linear partial differential
equations. They may consume hours of CPU
time just to produce a set of solutions for one
or two motions[2]. These procedures are too
slow for real time ship motion animations. Other
researchers simplified the governing equations
and boundary conditions to speed-up the com-
puting. In [3], Zhang et al. developed simpler
models for estimating external forces acting on
a ship. Then, first order differential equations
are solved by using the Runge-Kutta method to
compute ship motions. Their models focus on
the ship motions inside harbors. Thus only the
physical models for surge, sway, and yaw are
developed. Another physical model is reported
in [4]. In their method, the height field of sea
surface under the ship body is computed at each
step. Then, the tangent plane of sea surface
is calculated, and the ship is rotated such that
its orientation is aligned with the tangent plane.
Other researchers use statistical methods to pre-
dict ship motions. In [5], Kalman filters are uti-
lized to estimate ship motions. Their models
rely on many ship parameters to tune the gov-
erning equations. If these parameters are absent,
the simulation can not be performed. In [6], an
improved method for computing ship motions is
proposed. Their method requires less ship data
for simulating ship motions. However, the accu-
racy of simulation is still dependent on the avail-
ability of ship parameters. In [7], the ship status
and motions at some previous steps are recorded
and converted into a tensor field. Then the eigen
values and eigen vectors of the tensor field are
computed, and a minor component analysis pro-
cedure is conducted to predict ship motions in
the next step. This method is useful for short-
term ship motion prediction.
Recently, in computer graphics society, sev-
eral algorithms have been developed to model
the interactions between fluids and floating bod-
ies. In [8], Foster and Metaxas use the Navier-
Stokes equations to compute fluid motions.
Then the forces acting on floating objects are
estimated. The motions of floating bodies are
solved by using the Lagrange equations of mo-
tions. In [9], an advanced model is used to
generate waves. Then drag, lift, and buoyancy
forces are computed to estimate the interactions
between waves and floating objects. In [10],
Carlson et al. present the Rigid Fluid method
to compute the coupling between rigid bodies
and fluids. The motions of fluids and objects are
modeled by using the Navier Stokes equations.
However, rigid body motion constraints are en-
forced in the governing equations such that ob-
jects are not allowed to deform. In [11], Kim
et al. utilize hardware integration approaches to
compute gravity and buoyancy forces acting on
floating bodies. In turn, the motions of objects
are calculated by using these forces. In [12], six
mathematical models are proposed to animate
ship motions. In their method, the height field
of sea surface is computed to estimate the exter-
nal forces. Then the external forces are reduced
by the damping effects of sea water to produce
the net external forces. Heave, pitch, and roll
are computed by using the net external forces.
Mathematical models of propellers and rudders
are also developed to calculate the gross inter-
nal forces. Then the resistances of sea water are
subtracted from the internal forces to generate
the net internal force. Surge, sway, and yaw are
computed by using the net internal force. Fi-
nally, the six motions are super-imposed to gen-
erate the final ship motion.
1.2 The Stability Theory of Ship
In this subsection, the stability theory of ship
is briefly described. Detail description on this
topic can be found in the books written by Lewis
and Derrett [13, 14]. The stability of a ship is
decided by its gravity, buoyancy, and meta cen-
ters. The gravity center G is the point at which
the weight of the ship is concentrated. The grav-
ity force acts downward at G. The magnitude of
gravity force is equal to the ship weight. The
buoyancy center B is the geometrical center of
the displaced water. The buoyancy force acts
vertically upward at B. Assume that the density
of water is 1 ton per cubic meter, then the vol-
ume of the displaced water (measured in cubic-
meters) is equal to the weight of the displaced
water (measured in tons). Thus the magnitude
of the buoyancy force is equal to the volume of
the displaced water.
and Z axes, and the Y axis is pointed vertically
to the sky. The second coordinate system is the
body coordinate system. This coordinate system
is attached to the bounding box of the ship and
moved with the ship. Its three axes, Xb, Yb, and
Zb, are aligned with the bounding box bound-
aries. This coordinate system is used to define
the geometrical model of the ship and the three
centers. The third coordinate system is the sea-
keeping coordinate system. It is used to describe
forces and ship motions. Its origin is the gravity
center G. The three axes of this coordinate sys-
tems are Xs, Ys, and Zs. The Xs axis is aligned
with the direction of course. The Zs axis is hor-
izontally pointed to the starboard (right side) of
the ship, and the Ys axis is directed vertically
upward. In this coordinate system, heave is the
translate motion along the Ys axis, and pitch is
the rotation about the Zs axis. Roll is the rota-
tion about the Xs axis, as shown in Figure 1.
Sea waves produce external forces on the ship
body. Computing sea waves is crucial in ship
motion animations. Sea waves are usually mod-
eled as a time-dependent height field. A widely
used sea wave model is proposed in the paper of
[15]. To increase the fidelity, we assume that sea
waves are composed of several sinusoidal waves
of different frequencies, amplitudes, speeds, and
directions. Therefore, sea waves are defined by:
h(x, z, t) =
n∑
i=1
ζi sin
2pi
λi
((x cos θi − z sin θi)− ωit),
where ζi, λi, and ωi are the amplitude, length,
and speed of the ith wave. The variable θi is the
angle between the X axis and the incoming di-
rection of the ith wave, and t is the time variable.
2.2 The Grid of Ship Body
To speed up computations, the ship body is di-
vided into cells by using a 3D regular grid in
the body coordinate system. At first, the bound-
ing box of the ship body is computed, as shown
in the part (a) of Figure 4. Then the bounding
box is divided into cells, as shown in the parts
(b), (c), and (d) of Figure 4. The cell size is
1m × 1m × 1m. Thus the volume of a cell is
equal to 1 cubic meter. Some cells are outside
the ship body and are excluded. We associate
Xb
Yb
Zb
(d) side view of the grid(c) rear view of the grid
(a) bounding box (b) top view of the grid
Yb
Zb
Yb
Xb
Zb
Xb
P
P
P P
Figure 4: The computational grid of ship body.
(a) The bounding box, (b) top view, (c)
rear view, and (d) side view of the grid.
each cell with a flag. If a cell is intersected or
contained inside the ship body, its flag is set to
1. Otherwise its flag is set to 0. A cell with a
flag of 1 is called a signicant cell. The ship
weight is distributed over all significant cells. If
cargoes are loaded into a significant cell or sea
water leaks into the cell, the cell weight is in-
creased. Otherwise, if cargoes or water is ex-
pelled from the cell, the cell weight is decreased.
3 Computing G, B, and M
G, B, and M decide the ship stability. They
must be computed before calculating ship mo-
tions. Since the ship may change its posture and
position at every time step, it is difficult to spec-
ify these centers in the world coordinate system.
Thus, G, B, and M are computed in the body
coordinate system.
3.1 Computing G
To compute the Xb coordinate of G, we group
the significant cells with the same Xb coordinate
into a slice and divide the ship body into L cross-
sections in the Xb direction. Then the ship body
are treated as a beam, as shown in the part (a)
of Figure 5. By applying the physical law for
computing the gravity center of a beam, the Xb
coordinate of G are calculated by [16]:
XGb = (
L∑
i=1
mixi)/W, (2)
the viscosity of sea water. The resistance force
is related to the moment of heave and the ship
shape. The net force for heave can be estimated
by:
Rh = bhW~vh, (7)
Fh = (V −W )−Rh, (8)
where Rh is the resistance force, bh is the resis-
tance coefficient of heave, W is the ship weight,
and ~vh is the current heave velocity. Fh is the
net force for heave, and V is the volume of the
displaced water which is equal to the magnitude
of the buoyancy force. W and V are computed
when calculating G and B. Once Fh is decided,
the acceleration and velocity of heave are com-
puted by:
ah = Fh/W, (9)
~vh = ~vh + ah∆t, (10)
where ah is the acceleration of heave, and ∆t is
the time step size. Then the magnitude of heave
is calculated by:
∆heave = ~vh∆t, (11)
heave = heave + ∆heave. (12)
4.2 The Physical Model for Pitch
If the gravity and buoyancy centers are not lo-
cated at the same vertical line, the buoyancy
force exerts a rotational torque about the grav-
ity center and forces the ship to pitch or roll,
as shown in the parts of (a) and (b) of Fig-
ure 3. Pitch is a rotation about the Zs axis
and triggered by the Xs component of the rota-
tional torque, defined in Equation 1. As the ship
pitches, the damping effect of sea water prevents
the ship from inclining or tilting further. The
damping force is proportional to the velocity of
pitch but exerts in the opposite direction. Com-
bining these factors, the net force for pitch is de-
cided by:
τp = V < ~GZ, ~Xs >, (13)
Fp = τp − bpIpωp, (14)
where τp is the torque of pitch, <> is the inner-
product operator, ~Xs is the directional vector of
the Xs axis, and ~GZ is the vector from G to its
projection Z in the vertical line passing through
ri
miG21 Xb L
Zb
rj
mj
(a) beam structure for pitch (b) beam structure for roll
1
2
K
G Xb
Zb
Figure 7: Beam structures for computing inertia
moments. (a) For computing the in-
ertia moment of pitch, the ship body
is divided into cross-sections along the
Xb axis. (b) The ship body is divided
into cross-sections along the Zb axis
when computing the inertia moment of
roll.
B1, as shown in the parts (a) and (b) of Fig-
ure 3. The net force Fp is obtained by subtract-
ing the damping effect from the torque of pitch.
The damping effect is determined by the damp-
ing coefficient bp, the inertia of moment Ip, and
the current pitch velocity ωp. Then the acceler-
ation, velocity, and angle of pitch are computed
by:
αp = Fp/Ip, (15)
ωp = ωp + αp∆t, (16)
∆θp = ωp∆t, (17)
θp = θp + ∆θp, (18)
where αp is the angular acceleration of pitch,
and θp is the angle of pitch. The inertia mo-
ment Ip plays the same role in computing pitch
as the ship weight does in calculating heave[16].
To compute Ip, the ship is divided into L cross-
sections and regarded as a beam, as shown in the
part (a) of Figure 7. Based on physical laws, the
inertia moment Ip is calculated by[16]:
Ip =
L∑
i=1
mir
2
i , (19)
where ri is the distance between the gravity cen-
ter and the ith cross-section center, and mi is the
weight of the ith cross-section.
4.3 The Physical Model for Roll
The physical model of roll is similar to that of
pitch. At first, the Zs component of the rota-
tional torque is computed. Then the net force
Table 2: Computational costs (by sec.)
wave-induced motion sinking
wave height 0.00838 0.00838
rendering 0.00258 0.00285
motions 0.00161 0.00180
frame rate 66 fps 64 fps
sea surface varies periodically, so do the motion
magnitudes. However, there exist latencies be-
tween the variation of wave heights and ship mo-
tions, as shown in the 1st, 2nd and 4th graphs.
These latencies are typical phenomena of wave
induced motions and have been mentioned in the
literature of [13]. The computational costs for
each frame are depicted in the 2nd column of
Table 2. Our system needs only about 0.00161
second to compute ship motions. The render-
ing costs are about 0.00258 second. (The ship
model is composed of 7, 000 polygons, and the
sea surface contains 32, 768 triangles.) Comput-
ing wave heights requires 0.00838 second. In
total, the frame rate is about 66 fps.
5.2 Motions Induced by Cargoes
If loaded with unbalanced cargoes, the ship’s
gravity center may be higher than its meta cen-
ter. The ship will capsize to reach a new stable
posture. Here, capsizing does not mean over-
turning. Instead, this term is used to describe the
process of obtaining a new stability. In one sim-
ulation, a ship of 1, 200 tons of weight is served
as the target. The damping coefficients are de-
creased to 0.1 such that ship motions are exag-
gerated.
Four images of the simulation are presented
in Figure 9. Initially, heavy cargoes are loaded
into the right front part of the ship. The cargoes
are represented by using red cubes, as shown in
the part (a) of this figure. The gravity center G
(the red ball) is shifted forward. The ship in-
clines forward and rolls right. At time T = 12,
the heavy cargoes cause the ship to pitch down-
ward. The ship’s head is immersed into the sea
water, and buoyancy force is greatly increased,
as shown in the part (b). Then buoyancy force
creates a righting lever to bring the ship back
from the inclination. However, the ship can not
recover its initial stability because of the car-
goes. It can only tilt back by a few degrees.
(e) Motion
magnitudes
Figure 8: (a)-(d) Images of wave-induced mo-
tions. (e) The wave height at G and
the motion magnitudes at each frame.
The scenario is displayed in the part (c). Then
gravity force makes the ship incline forward and
heave downward again. As the ship oscillates,
the motion magnitudes are gradually reduced by
the damping effects. The ship obtains a new
stability at T = 80, as shown in the part (d).
The variations of motion magnitudes are shown
in the part (e). At T = 12, the ship motions
reach their maxima. The ship heaves downward
by 6 meters, pitches forward, and rolls right by
30 degrees. When reaching its new stability, the
ship’s position is lowered by 2 meters vertically,
inclined forward, and rolled right by 12 degrees.
5.3 Sinking Caused by Leaking Water
If too much water leaks into a ship, the ship
weight will exceed the volume of the displaced
water. Buoyancy force cannot support the ship
els cope with not only sea waves but also leak-
ing water and cargoes. We use the buoyancy,
gravity, and meta centers to predict ship stabil-
ities and compute ship motions. Hence users
are allowed to compose complex ship motions
by modifying the environment and parameters,
for examples, changing ship weights and shapes,
adding cargoes, and creating ship hull damages.
Our models can automatically generate ship mo-
tions under different circumstances. Experimen-
tal results show that our physical models are
physically sound and efficient. They can sim-
ulate ship motions in real time with decent vi-
sual effects. Our simulator also displays the
variations of motion magnitudes and sea wave
heights. By examining the output data, users can
learn more about the hydrodynamical behaviors
of ships.
References
[1] N. Salvesen, E. O. Tuck, and O. Faltinsen.
Ship Motions and Sea Loads. Transactions
of the Society of Naval Architects and Ma-
rine Engineers, pages 250–287, 1970.
[2] M. Aryanpour and M. Ghorashi. Heave
and Pitch Motions of a Ship Due to Mov-
ing Masses and Forces. Journal of Sound
and Vibration, pages 185–195, 2001.
[3] Xiufeng Zhang, Yicheng Jin, Yong Yin,
and Zhihua Li. Ship-simulation Using Vir-
tual Reality Technique. In ACM Siggraph
International Conference on Virtual Real-
ity Continuum and its Applications in In-
dustry, pages 282–285, 2004.
[4] J. M. Cieutat, J. C. Gonzato, and P. Guit-
ton. A New Efficient Wave Model for Mar-
itime Training Simulator. In IEEE Spring
Conference on Computer Graphics, pages
202–209, 2001.
[5] Michael S. Triantafyllou, Marc Bodson,
and Michael Athans. Real Time Estima-
tion of Ship Motions Using Kalman Filter-
ing Techniques. IEEE Journal of Oceanic
Engineering, 8(1):9–20, 1983.
[6] D. G. Lainiotis, C. Charalampous, Gian-
nakopoulos, and S. Katsikas. Real Time
Ship Motion Estimation. In OCEAN’92
Conference, pages 283–287, 1992.
[7] X. Zhao, R. Xu, and C. Kwan. Ship-
motion Prediction: Algorithms and Simu-
lation Results. In IEEE International Con-
ference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal
Processing, pages 125–128, 2004.
[8] Nick Foster and Dimitri Metaxas. Realis-
tic animation of liquids. Graphical Mod-
els and Image Processing, 58(5):471–483,
1996.
[9] Cem Yuksel, Donald H. House, and John
Keyser. Wave particles. ACM Transactions
on Graphics (Proceedings of SIGGRAPH
2007), 26(3):99, 2007.
[10] Mark Carlson, Peter J. Mucha, and Greg
Turk. Rigid fluid: Animating the inter-
play between rigid bodies and fluid. ACM
Transactions on Graphics, 22(3):377–384,
2004.
[11] Jinwook Kim, Soojae Kim, Heedong Ko,
and Demetri Terzopoulos. Fast gpu com-
putation of the mass properties of a general
shape and its application to buoyancy sim-
ulation. Visual Computer, 22(9):856–864,
2006.
[12] Shyh-Kuang Ueng, David Lin, and Chieh-
Hong Liu. A Ship Motion Simulation Sys-
tem. Virtual Reality, 12(1):65–76, 2008.
[13] Edward V. Lewis. Principles of Naval Ar-
chitecture, Volume I Stability and Strength.
Society of Naval Architects, 1988.
[14] D. R. Derrett. Ship Stability. Butterworth-
Heinemann, 2000.
[15] A. Fournier and W. T. Reeves. A Simple
Model of Ocean Waves. In Proceedings of
SIGGRAPH’86, pages 75–84, 1986.
[16] Harris Benson. University Physics. John
Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1996.
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：翁世光 計畫編號：98-2221-E-019-025- 
計畫名稱：船舶穩定性即時模擬 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 1 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
