Key Technology Studies of Real-time and Post Processing
for a High Quality VoIP System
Wen-Ping Lai (賴文彬)
Department of Communications Engineering,
Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li 320, Taoyuan, Taiwan
摘要
本研究計畫為期兩年，主要目標在於研究與發展一個高品質的網路電話(VoIP)系統之即時處理
與後處理關鍵技術。兩個主要的研究議題包括：(A) VoIP 品質之最佳化預測模型與應用、以及
(B)多媒體修正之後處理。 本報告敘述與總結我們於第一年的研究成果，並展望第二年延續之
研究方向。在研究議題(A)的第一年，主要成果在於：(1) 我們定量地討論與分析了來自編碼
與封包遺失之品質損傷因子，並且極為詳細地描述了低位元率編碼器對封包遺失之抗錯能力，
包括 G.729a 與 AMR 窄頻的多重位元率模式；(2)我們也發展了一個基於 HMM 之 RNN/RBF
封包分類器，並且討論其潛在的應用。研究議題(B)於第一年所發展之後處理技術可被使用在
基於會話混音中之語音區塊的時間對齊校正。此種時域技術可作為呈現在多媒體錄製中的附加
材料。
關鍵詞：感知式語音品質模型化、封包遺失補償、多媒體錯誤修正
Abstract
This research is a two years long project with the main objective of studying and developing
the key technologies of real-time and post processing for a high quality VoIP system. Two major
research issues include (A) Optimized Prediction and Applications of Perceptual VoIP Quality
Modeling, and (B) Error Correction via Multimedia Post-processing. This report describes and
concludes our first year research achievements, and outlooks continued research directions in the
second year. In the first year of research issue (A), our major achievements are: (1) we have
quantitatively discussed and analyzed the quality impairment factors from coding and packet loss,
and the associated packet loss error resilience capabilities of low-bit rate coders in great detail,
including G.729a and multiple bit-rate modes of AMR-NB; (2) we have also developed an offline
HMM based RNN/RBF packet classifier and discussed its potential use. The post-processing
methods developed in the first year for research issue (B) can be used to estimate the timing of the
conversation based on the alignment of speech blocks in the speech mixture. The timing technique
can be used to present additional material in the multimedia recording.
Keywords: Perceptual Speech Quality Modeling, Packet Loss Concealment, Multimedia Error Correction
2.1 Optimized Prediction and Applications of Perceptual VoIP Quality Modeling
Figure A-1. End-to-end VoIP communication and quality impairment factors.
The VoIP communication quality can be affected by many factors including noise, signal
deformation or attenuation, echoes, delay, and jitters etc. In addition to these speech quality related
factors, others such as success rates and initial waiting times of call session establishment or price
etc. also come into play. As shown in Figure A-1, the basic modeling of VoIP consists of three parts:
the speaker, transmission, and listener, and the following gives a detailed list of speech quality
impairment factors in these three parts respectively.
 equipment impairment factors at the speaker:
 type of coders and selection of bit rate modes
 packetization
 transmission impairment factors from congestions and channel degradation:
 packet loss
 packet delay
 packet jitter
 others such as noise/interference/attenuation/mobilization (mostly seen in wireless
communications)
 equipment impairment factors at the listener:
 playout buffering for jitter smoothing
 packet error concealment and speech reconstruction at the decoder
Coder G.711 G.723.1 G.726 G.729 GSM AMR iLBC
Bit Rate
(kbps)
64 5.3, 6.3 16, 24,
32, 40
8.0 Half-Rate 5.6
EFR 12.2
Full Rate 13.0
N.B.4.75-12.2
W.B. 6.6-23.85
13.33
(30ms)
15.2(20ms)
Application PSTN videoed
VoIP
DECT
VoIP
Mobile
VoIP
GSM/2.5G
GSM
3G
VoIP
Skype
VoIP
Table A-1. Bit rates and applications of various speech coders.
The major problems to enhance or maintain VoIP speech quality are highlighted below:
 Higher compression or lower bit rate of speech data at the speaker end for saving the bandwidth
Compared to the subjective method, objective methods are referred to as computer-assisted
methods, which are more repeatable, higher-precision, and faster to conduct. The ITU-T P.862 [A-14]
standard, proposed by OPTICOM in the year of 2001, is the most famous one, also know as PESQ
(Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality). The algorithms of PESQ are based on the psychoacoustic
model and can provide a highly correct and repeatable evaluation of speech signal impairment
caused by transmission over telecom or computer networks. PESQ compares the degraded speech
with the reference speech, and gives a PESQ-MOS score between 0 and 4.5. Although accurate, the
computational complexity hinders it use in fast real-time applications. The ITU-T G.107 [A-15]
standard, also know as E-Model, can offer a better choice for transmission rating planning. The
E-Model was first proposed in 1998, and updated with some technical improvements in later years.
The main feature of the E-Model is that it assumes the quality impairment levels from different
sources are additive. The outcome of the E-Model generates a so-called R-Factor, with a value
between 0 and 100. The E-Model is not as accurate as PESQ, but more appropriate to real-time
applications. A linear regression model, incorporating the correctness of PESQ and the speed of
E-Model was proposed by L. Sun and E.C. Ifeachor in 2006 [A-16]. For the first year of this project,
it is good enough to use PESQ to evaluate the user perception quality under various experimental
conditions, since our developed methods are more or less offline based. The real-times issues will
mainly be dealt with in the second year.
2.2 Error Correction via Multimedia Post-processing
(a) (b)
Figure B-1. (a) Quality tradeoffs, and (b) Video bit rates after compression.
The track of studies along error correction via multimedia post-processing have to deal with the
tradeoff issue between quality of audiovisual signal, bit rate, and delay, as shown in Figure B-1.a,
where high quality of the signal is indicated by a high mean opinion score (MOS), and a low
probability of errors pe. Figure B-1.b demonstrates the bit rates for audiovisual signal after
compression. (Image source: [B-1])
(a) Fox News, USA (b) NSNBC, USA
Figure B-2. Speaker role detection
speech with short pauses, we use adaptive threshold that decreases with the length of the
speech-block (see Figure B-3.b).
Optimization of the algorithm consists of balancing the negative and positive drift of the
statistics in (1). For independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) observations Xi, the algorithm is
optimal in that it minimizes the average detection delay (ADD) for a prescribed false alert rate (FAR),
asymptotically for small FAR. The algorithm can be partially optimized and performs well in the
non-i.i.d. case, also. See [B-4], [B-5] for a detailed discussion.
 Estimation of Speech-block End-points using Signal Post-processing
Detection delay is not an important issue in post-processing of the speech signal. We can therefore
use methods that process the speech signal entropy after the speech-block end-points (in the
“future”). This fact alows us to construct and compare linear regression models in a sliding 
time-interval around a candidate speech-block boundary. Model M1 uses a single horizontal
regression line, while model M2 uses three consecutive regression lines, as shown in Figure B-4. In
the model M2, the middle regression line is the steepest at the speech-block boundaries. Instead of
the slope, however, we consider the quality improvement of the fit of model M2 compared to model
M1. The intervals with the highest fit improvement are selected, and the speech-block end-points are
estimated using the end-points of the middle line in the model M2. Notice that we use different
models for the left and right speech-block end-points, as illustrated in Figure B-4.a. The models are
tuned to detect short pauses in continual speech, as shown in Figure B-4.b. They can be adjusted to
skip the short pauses and include them as a part of a single speech-block.
We compare the quality of the models’ fit using the ratio of their respective residual sums of 
squares. The ratio is the basis of the F-statistic that is used for hypotheses testing in classical
regression analysis with i.i.d. observation errors. Our developed procedure estimates the
speech-block end-points by locating intervals with the maximum of the ratio. It does not perform
hypothesis testing, and does therefore not require i.i.d. errors that is indeed not guaranteed for
observed speech-signal entropy.
(a)
(b)
Figure B-4. Post-processing of speech signals to estimate speech-block end-points. The method
consists of comparison of different linear models and finding a location with the best improvement
of the model fit with the estimated speech-signal entropy. Figure (b) shows short-pause estimation in
continuous speech.
 Alignment of Speech Blocks with a Signal Mixture
For the purpose of aligning individual speakers’ speech blocks with the speech-signal mixture we use
a speech-entropy correlation approach. A sliding window of the entropy of the speech signal mixture
is correlated with the entropy in the neighborhood of the estimated left end-point of the speech-block.
score is not perfect (around 3.7, and the perfect PESQ-MOS should be 4.5) and simply stands for the
pure coding impairment effect of G.729a at the 8-kbps mode. Similar score merging behaviors at 0%
packet loss rate can also be drawn from Figure A-3 for both the AMR-NB 4.75-kbps and 12.2-kbps
modes, where the two blue curves are for the 4.75-kbps mode (low-blue for without-PLC, and
high-blue for with-PLC), and the two red curves for the 12.2 mode (low-red for without-PLC, and
high-red for with-PLC). One remarkable but reasonable point is that the merged PESQ-MOS score
of the two blue curves for the AMR-NB 4.75-kbps mode is around 3.3, much lower than that (around
3.95) of the two red curves for the AMR-NB 12.2-kbps mode. If we add in the merged PESQ-MOS
score 3.7 from the G.729a 8kbps mode, it makes perfect sense that the score ordering 3.95 (12.2-kbps)
> 3.7 (8-kbps) > 3.3 (4.75-kbps) matches with the bit rate ordering. In other words, the lower bit rate
stands for higher coding compression rate, and thus more quality degradation.
Starting from the 0% packet loss rate, the results of both Figures A-2 and A-3 are also well
expected since (1) speech quality gets worse as the packet loss rate increases; and (2) the effect with
PLC is higher than the effect without PLC. However, a more careful observation about error
resilience can draw the following results:
 Taking 2.9 as the threshold of ‘fair’ score, the PLC of G.729a can improve its error resilience
capability up to more than 8% of packet loss, compared to the no PLC case which is originally
only less than 4% of packet loss.
 Both modes of AMR-NB are more vulnerable to packet loss than G.729a in the case of no PLC,
and thus their PLC capabilities seem to be more outstanding than G.729a’s.
 Offline HMM based RNN/RBF Packet Classification and Results
We used the Hidden Markov Model to train the information of VoIP speech frames, and obtained
frame-by-frame based packet classification. The method is further detailed as the following:
(1) According the information of HMM state division, determine the sensitivity of each VoIP
packet’s state to transmission packet loss quantitatively.
(2) Construct a RNN/RBF speech broad classifier based on the HMM state to analyze the PESQ
based MOSsensitivity of each VoIP packet’sclass to transmission packet loss quantitatively.
As shown in Figure A-4, we have successfully classified the packets into seven HMM states
allowed for speech frame based packet classification, including states 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, where state 8
consists of silence periods and short pauses between voiced states labeled with states 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
In general, loss of silence periods and short pauses causes only the least impact to the VoIP speech
quality. Thus, only voiced states are considered in Figure A-4, where the relation between MOS and
packet loss rate is depicted for each voiced state. It is obvious that state 5 can cause the most
profound impact to MOS degradation due to packet loss, and hence its packet importance is the
highest. On the other hand, the impact from state 7 is the least, and therefore its packet importance is
the lowest. When the packet loss rate is between 10% and 15%, the level of packet importance, from
low to high, can be ordered as state 7 < state 2 < state 4 < state 6 < state 5, where the statistics of
state 3 is run out due to its own population within the speech data is too low. However, for packet
loss rate less than 10%, the ordering results of states 7, 2, and 5 hold the same, but state 6 turns to be
less important than states 3 and 4, where it is hard to distinguish states 3 and 4. Presumably states 2
and 7 can be classified as transition states, states 3 and 4 are likely unvoiced speech segments, and
states 6 and 5 are more likely to be voiced speech segments. Thus, the results of Figure 4 should be
 Algorithm and prototype software for post-processing estimation of speech-blocks in noisy
environments.
 Algorithm for speech-block alignment with a speech-signal mixture for teleconference
reconstruction using high-quality signals.
As far as academic benefits are concerned, the developed methods open a whole new area of
development in multimedia communication and content creation. Our next stage is intelligent video
presentation of the conversation participants based on estimated speaker roles. Other potential areas
of development include gesture, face, and eye tracking to decide how the speakers should be
arranged. For example the participants of a dialog should face each other on the screen. Applications
of our newly developed methods to other areas of engineering are illustrated in Figure B-7. We have
applied the new model comparison method to detect features in a blood pressure signals.
Figure B-7: Estimation of heart beat related features in a blood pressure signal. The regular pattern of
the red and cyan peaks documents the robustness of the estimation methodology even for blood
pressure signals that that are very unstable and greatly fluctuate.
4. Summary and Outlook
This research is a two years long project on ‘Key Technology Studies of Real-time and Post
Processing for a High Quality VoIP System’. We have successfully conducted a wide range of studies
over the research issues (A) and (B), where (A) is for ‘Optimized Prediction and Applications of
Perceptual VoIP Quality Modeling’, and (B) for‘Error Correction via Multimedia Post-processing’.
In the first year of research issue (A), our major achievements are: (1) we have quantitatively
discussed and analyzed the quality impairment factors from coding and packet loss, and the
associated packet loss error resilience capabilities of medium and low-bit rate coders in great detail,
including G.729a and multiple bit-rate modes of AMR-NB; (2) we have also developed an offline
HMM based RNN/RBF packet classifier and mentioned its potential use.
Other studies on transmission impairment factors of research issue (A), such as delay and jitter,
mainly caused by network congestions, are underway in the second year of this project. Our main
purpose is to propose fast and precise statistical packet probing methods for estimating the available
bandwidth between both ends of VoIP communication so that a real-time adaptation of VoIP quality
to the variation of network bandwidth can be achieved. Besides, studies for identifying packet
importance in real-time are also underway for the second year. Thus far, we have achieved very
optimistic preliminary results. Due to the limited space of this report, discussion of these results will
be placed at the end of the second year.
The post-processing methods developed in the first year for research issue (B) can be used to
estimate the timing of the conversation based on the alignment of speech blocks in the speech
