 I
行政院國家科學委員會補助產學合作計畫(開發型) ■期中進度報告 
 
 
以心脈診斷為基礎之即時照護平台開發(1/2) 
 
 
計畫類別：▓ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2622-E-005-002-CC2 
執行期間：100年06月01日至101年05月31日 
 
計畫主持人：林俊良 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：陳鏡崑、徐永弘、蔡易儒 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：▓精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列管計
畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ▓涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立中興大學電機工程學系(所) 
 
中 華 民 國 101 年 2 月 29 日 
 2
for the health monitoring application is proposed 
in [2], and more. Actually, development of the 
health care system has been becoming a trend of 
recent research.  
    For research activities related to the heart 
behavior’s investigation, the study of HRV (heart 
rate variability) based on the ECG is one of the 
most important research themes. HRV is a 
physiological phenomenon where the time 
interval between heart beats varies. It is generally 
measured by the variation in the beat-to-beat 
interval. For the diagnostic purpose, it is 
commonly used as a quantitative maker which 
depicts the activity of autonomic nervous system 
(ANS), and the regulation mechanisms of HRV 
originated from sympathetic and parasympathetic 
can be an indicator reflecting the physical 
function of human’s heart [3]. It has also been 
proved that sympathetic effects and 
parasympathetic effects can be obtained by 
measuring HRV. 
Traditionally, ECG signals are recorded 
through more than three electrodes attached to the 
human body and manipulated in a complex data 
management system, such as 12-lead system. 
Obviously, this is not suitable for the home care 
purpose.  
In this research, the presented health care 
platform (HCP) uses a convenient handheld 
device to collect ECG signals from only two 
conductive electrodes. Our experiments 
successfully demonstrate the difference of the 
tested subjects whose variations of HRV in 
jogging or rest based on the proposed HCP.  In 
which, we obtain essential information from the 
time-domain and frequency-time analyses for 
decision making. In the time domain analysis, we 
directly receive the data from a bio-signal 
processor module obtaining SDNN (standard 
deviation of RR intervals), RMSSD (root mean 
square of successive difference RR intervals) and 
NN50 (the number of successive RR intervals 
differing more than 50ms). For the frequency 
analysis, HF (High frequency band), LF (Lower 
frequency band), and the ratio of HF and LF are 
obtained. 
II. METHODS  
A. Health Care Platform (HCP) 
In this project, the HCP consists of three parts: 
a bio- signal sensor, a bio-signal processing 
module, and a wireless transmission module. 
Figure 1 illustrates the structure of the proposed 
HCP. The tested subjects are only needed to paste 
the electrode patches on both sides of the body 
(hand, torso, leg, or heart). The sensor transmits 
bio-signals to the heart rate processing processor. 
After processing the bio-signals, the ECG data is 
transmitted to a computer via the wireless 
technology to conduct the frequency-domain 
HRV analysis. On the other hand, the required 
information for the time-domain HRV analysis is 
directly obtained from the bio-signal processor. 
Fig. 1 Structure of the Health Care Platfrom (HCP) 
 
(a)                                                    (b) 
Fig. 2  The bio-signal sensor (a) photo  (b) structure of the 
bio-signal sensor 
 
Fig. 3 Prototype of the Health care paltform 
Measurement of ECG signals is based on a 
self-developed handheld device which uses a pair 
of electrode patches as shown in Fig. 2(a) for 
signal acquisition. Figure 2(b) shows the structure 
of the bio-signal sensor. Figure 3(a) shows the 
bio-signal processor, the function of the processor 
is to handle the ECG signal processing including 
filtering, signal amplification, and QRS wave 
 4
the next step is interpolation. For uniform 
distribution, the values of *RRi  over the time-axis 
should be reformed by inserting appropriate 
points which has been realized using interpolation. 
We set the resampled rate to be 4 Hz , and 
2 , 7,8,9,n n   , as the number of resampling points. 
After the procedure has been applied to 
preprocess the RR interval series, the segment 
length of the sample point would exhibit a 
smoothed spectrum with clearly outlined peaks in 
LF and HF [9]. 
This research focuses on the analysis of the 
periodic behavior of the function in a short 
duration. After performing the signal reform, we 
proceed to conduct the signal windowing process. 
The methods of signal windowing process have 
many types, such as Hann window and Hamming 
window. The window function is used here to 
extract an appropriate section of R-R signals for 
the fast Fourier transform (FFT). 
After performing FFT, we obtain the power 
spectral density (PSD) of the selected R-R signal. 
Figure 6 shows the flow chart of HRV analysis. 
 
Fig. 4 Transformed signal of  RRi  
1* 2*RR RR1*RR 2* 3*RR RR 3* ...RR   
Fig. 5 Uneven R-R intervals 
 
Fig. 6 Flow chart for HRV analysis 
III. EXPERIMEN 
Twenty three subjects involving ten males and 
thirteen females aged at 18-25 joined in this 
experiment. Each subject held the bio-signal 
sensor on both hands to record the ECG signal for 
15 min. All the acquired ECG signals are collected 
from the proposed HCP. We designed a series of 
HRV analysis scenes which classify into two parts: 
rest condition and after riding an exercise bike. 
The measurement involves the rest condition for 5 
minutes, riding the exercise bike for another 5 
minutes then measuring the ECG for 5 minutes. 
The purpose is to prove that the HRV analysis 
works correctly with this HCP. 
For an example, Figures 7-9 illustrate the 
sequence of R-R interval under static and exercise 
conditions on the tested subjects 1, 2, and 3 
respectively. The blue line indicates the linearize 
R-R signal, green line is the linearize signal 
passing the window function, and the periods are 
the sampled points of the linearize R-R signal. In 
which, the tested subject 1 is 19 year-old female, 
subject 2, 20 year-old female, and subject 3, 24 
year-old male. 
   
    (a)  rest condition           (b) exercise condition 
 
Fig. 7 Sequence of R-R internal of subject 1 
     
(a)  rest condition           (b) exercise condition  
Fig. 8 Sequence of R-R internal of subject 2  
   
 6
Compared with the rest and after exercise 
conditions, we observe that the value of HF and 
LF represent decline phenomenon from rest to 
exercise. After exercise, the variation of HF norm 
and LF norm presents increase and decrease from 
rest to exercise. In [13] provides some information 
about HR recovery after exercise, including Faster 
HR recover after exercise in runners have higher 
aerobic capacity and exaggerated blood pressure 
response to exercise compared with untrained 
controls.  The variation of HF norm and LF norm 
reflect that excise let subjects have faster heart rate 
recover than rest. Also, it means that after exercise 
will let parasympathetic become more activity and 
let sympathetic be inhibited. It shows that the 
change of the trends is consistent to the theoretical 
results. The results of experimental analysis and 
comparison obtained from the HRV analysis 
conducted in our HCP are consistent with the 
medical professionals’ knowledge. Therefore, the 
HRV application here is feasible. Besides, the 
ECG signal acquisition measurement in the 
proposed HCP provides a stable environment to 
conduct this experiment. The advantages of the 
HCP include real-time recording ECG signal 
without the phenomenon of the base-level drift. 
Because of this feature, the application of the 
HRV analysis here would be more practical than 
others from the viewpoints of portability and 
practicability. 
 
V. CONCLUSION 
 In this paper, the rest and exercise cases for a 
group of tested people were analyzed via ECG 
signals by the proposed HCP to measure heart rate 
and R-R interval for HRV analysis. The developed 
HCP is able to provide a convenient way for 
collecting and analyzing physiological 
information from human body and collect data of 
heat rate behavior. The experiment results 
investigate the tested subjects’ behavior patterns 
that may affect HRV parameters. On the basis of 
these results it is possible to accomplish the task of 
disease prevention and health management. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] H. K. Yang, J. W. Lee, K. H. Lee, Y. J. Lee, K. S. Kim, H. J. Choi, D. 
J. Kim, “Application for the wearable heart acticity monitoring 
system: analysis of the autonomic funtion of HRV,” in Proc. 
International IEEE EMBS Conference, Vancouver, pp. 1258-1264, 
2008. 
[2] C. C. Chou, S. Y. Tseng, E. Chua, Y. C. Lee, W. C. Fang, H. C. 
Huang, “Advanced ECG processor with HRV analysis for real-time 
portable health monitoring,” in Proc. IEEE International Conference 
on Consumer Electronics,  Berlin, pp. 172-175, 2011. 
[3] W. Wu, J. Lee, H. Chen, “Estimation of heart rate variability changes 
during different visual stimulation using non-invasive real-time ECG 
monitoring system,” in Proc. International Joint Conference on  
Bioinformatics, Systems Biology and Intelligent Computing, 
Shanghai, pp. 344-347, 2009. 
[4] J. Pan and W. J. Tompkins, “A real-time QRS detection algorithm,” 
IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, vol. BME-32, no. 3, 
pp. 230-236, 1985. 
[5] C. T. Chiang, “Contact type pulse measurement device,” Boson 
Technology Co., USA Patent NO. US6945940B1, 2005. 
[6] Task Force of The European Society of Cardiology and The North 
American Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology, “Heart rate 
variability-standards of measurement, physiological interpretation, 
and clinical use,” European Heart Journal, vol. 17, pp. 354-381, 
1996. 
[7] J. P. Niskanen, M. P. Tarvainen, P. O. Ranta-Aho, P. A. 
Karjalainen “Software for advanced HRV analysis,” Computer 
Methods and Programs in Biomedicine, vol. 76, pp. 73-81, 2004. 
[8] P. Albrecht, R. J. Cohen, “Estimation of Heart rate spectrum bands 
From real-world data : dealing with ectopic beats and noisy data,” in 
Proc. IEEE Conference on Computer in Cardiology,Washington DC, 
pp. 311-314, 1988. 
[9] D. Singh, K. Vinod, S. C. Saxena, and K. K. Deepak, “Effects of RR 
segment duration on HRV spectrum estimation,” Physiological 
Measurement, vol. 25, pp. 721-735, 2004. 
[10] A. U. Rajendra, J. K. Paul, N. Kannathal, C. Lim, J. Suri, “Heart rate 
variability :a review,” Medical Biology Engineering Computer,  vol. 
44, pp. 1031-1051, 2006. 
[11] M. N. Bartels, S. Jelic, P. Ngai, G. Gates, D. Newandee, S. S. 
Reisman, R. C. Basner, R. E. DeMeersman, “The effect of  
ventilation on spectral analysis of heart rate and blood pressure 
variability during exercise,” Respiratory Physiology and 
Neurobiology, vol. 144, pp. 91-98, 2004. 
[12]  M. J. Lewis , M. Kingsley, A. L. Short, K. Simpson, “Influence of 
high-frequency bandwidth on heart rate variability analysis during 
physical exercise, ” Biomedical Signal Processing and Control, vol. 2, 
pp. 34-38, 2007. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/02/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以心脈診斷為基礎之即時照護平台開發(1/2)
計畫主持人: 林俊良
計畫編號: 100-2622-E-005-002-CC2 學門領域: 智慧型照護系統
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計畫已衍生國際學術研討論論文乙篇 
 
1. Y. H. Hsu, C. L. Lin, C. K. Chen, and C. T. Chiang, ’Health Care 
Platform Based on Acquisition of ECG for HRV analysis,’ Proceedings of 
International Conference on Industrial Informatics, Beijing, China, 
2012, submitted 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
