 2 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
The global economy has gradually developed into the knowledge accumulation (KA) and 
innovation as the main driving force of economic growth. How to maintain the KA and to get along 
with engineering manpower outsourcing (EMO) by external knowledge to achieve the best value are 
confronted in the current global economy. This study finds that KA and EMO are mutually 
influenced, and it is obvious that when EMO are increased, the KA in the company is relatively 
decreased and vice versa. 
 
 
 4 
traditional experience-based method to temporarily find a balance and to overcome the above problem. 
However, there is still lack of a systemic and suitable solution toward the imbalance of KA and EMO. 
The aim of this study is to obtain the accumulation of industrial intrinsic knowledge and achieve the best 
efficiency and balance of exterior knowledge when an industry engages in EMO. The research process in this 
study is shown in Figure 1. In the first part of this study, it describes the research motivation and purpose. In 
the second part, in order to define the factors and establish the research framework, this study conducts a 
literature review and expert interview to draw the influential factors towards to KA and EMO. The third part 
of this study is to perform the quantitative research based on questionnaire survey. In the final part, this study 
analyzes the result of the questionnaire survey and provides suggestions and the conclusion. 
 
 
Figure 1: Research process 
 
 
2. Literature Review 
In the period of a knowledge driven economy, the key to business competition is the use of outstanding 
manpower and the effective management of internal and exterior manpower. It is increasingly difficult for 
enterprises to survive since operational processes are becoming more professional and divisional. In this 
circumstance, enterprises start to reorganize and reduce the cost of unnecessary human resource management. 
Jacobs (1994) pointed out that the growth of outsourcing workloads increases 2.5 times per decade. 
Outsourcing of labor highlights the gradual reorganization of a company’s structure. To create the highest 
corporate operating performance, enterprises outsource a large amount of their non-core business processes. 
 
2.1 Engineering Manpower Outsourcing (EMO) 
In these times of highly specialized production and increasingly serious competition, many enterprises 
have implemented organizational restructuring and manpower downsizing to achieve breakthroughs and to 
improve their profits. Outsourcing, which is not only of non-core business, but also of engineering functions, 
is becoming more popular. By engaging in EMO, an enterprise can avoid excessive investments in technology 
and manpower. Outsourcing is a strategic business behavior whereby enterprises transfer specific internal 
tasks to external providers, so that the enterprises can focus their resources on their core business activities. 
Quinn and Hilmer (1994) defined outsourcing from the viewpoint of resource distribution as making an 
appropriate allocation of a company’s technologies and resources to maximize profit; they claimed that the 
most practical method is to focus the company’s resources on its core business and to outsource other 
non-core activities appropriately. Some enterprises cannot satisfy core business requirements or maintain 
competitive advantage without external assistances, and such enterprises should consider EMO as a 
cooperative strategy for growth. Human resources stand out among all the resources and requirements of the 
knowledge-based economy. Except for the construction and installation of software and hardware, the 
productivity bases of the knowledge-based economy are human resources. Traditionally, an enterprise’s 
outsourcing strategy has focused on its non-core business. Based on the above literature review, the 
effectiveness of EMO can be inferred and summarized into three aspects: cost savings, resource flexibility, 
and strategy of competitiveness. 
From the viewpoint of cost savings, Lewis (2007) concluded that there are three practical advantages to 
outsourcing: higher profits, lower costs, and greater value for consumers. Transaction-cost theory has been 
Research motivation 
& purpose 
 
Factor selection 
Construction of 
optimization model 
AHP design & 
questionnaire 
modification 
 
Knowledge 
accumulation survey 
of questionnaire 
 
Apply to optimization 
model and Analyze 
data 
Conclusion & 
recommendation 
 
Literature review  
 6 
in its knowledge-based economy, it has not yet made any notable breakthroughs in existing industries. KA and 
circulation have been the foundation for the development of knowledge-based industries. Therefore, how to 
enhance firms’ R&D ability and constantly accumulate firm-level knowledge has become a challenge for 
industries in this era of knowledge innovation. 
KA and the various adaptations of knowledge are critical issues in the field of knowledge management. 
The complexity of dynamic application domains and the uncertainty of future maintainability are the main 
problems of knowledge accumulation (Koh et al., 2005). Morgan et al. (2003) suggested that the efficiency of 
adapting relevant knowledge is the key to understanding organizational performance. Based on the viewpoint 
of knowledge-based theory (KBT), knowledge comprised of different types at different levels of the 
organization is linked with business performance outcomes. Therefore, knowledge is considered to be the 
most strategically significant resource of a firm: the firm exists as social communities of knowledge, with 
knowledge forming the most strategically significant resource accounting for inter-firm performance 
variations (Grant, 1996; Kogut and Zander, 1992). Knowledge accumulation lies in the knowledge-absorbing 
ability of knowledge receivers and knowledge-receiving enterprises. Although firm-level knowledge is 
difficult to accumulate in a specific way, knowledge integration, absorption, and sharing are important 
abilities that enable enterprises to accumulate knowledge. 
Knowledge is an invisible but valuable element which is hard to materialize into the practical 
environment. Also, with fast aging and rapid upgrading of knowledge, the core issue of managing knowledge 
focuses on how to obtain valuable knowledge and how to accumulate enterprise-specific knowledge. 
Knowledge flows exist between implicit and explicit states, creating a symbiotic relationship between the two 
states (Polanyi, 1967). Most implicit knowledge is obtained by constructing knowledge networks and sending 
knowledgeable workers to explore situations or personal experiences. Firm-level knowledge can be stored in 
the memories of employees, and the combination of knowledge and activities within enterprises allows 
knowledge to become stored in the systematic routines of enterprises (Argot, 1999), and thus a management 
system of knowledge is essential to enterprises. Bonora and Revang (1991) classify the storage of knowledge 
into “mechanic storage” while “organic storage”. “Mechanic storage” refers to the storage of propositional 
and objective knowledge, and “organic storage” refers to the storage of individual and subjective knowledge. 
Barry and Stephens (1998) argue that only by the accumulation and diffusion processes of knowledge values 
and norms can firm-level knowledge be created and gathered into a firm’s core competitive forces. 
In economic analysis, “cost” refers to the amount of money required for manufacturing, and cost function 
is defined as the relationship between different outputs and different production costs. Previously, cost 
function was primarily calculated according to the Cobb-Douglas pattern. However, this pattern is restricted in 
the crossed elasticity of investment factors, and the price elasticity of the cost function is fixed and equal to 
one. Therefore, after 1980, most scholars use Translog cost function to calculate the related costs in empirical 
analysis. This study discusses the translog cost function in session 3.1. 
 
2.3 Optimization Theory 
Tikhomirov (1990) pointed out that optimization theory is one of the oldest branches of mathematics and 
plays an important role in the development of geometry and differential calculus. Optimization is the process 
of maximizing or minimizing a desired objective function while matching in decisional conditions, and it is 
the act of obtaining the best result under given circumstances. In design, construction, and maintenance of 
engineering system, engineers need to make many technological and managerial decisions at several stages 
for achieving either minimization of the required effort or maximization of the desired benefit. Nowadays the 
optimization is applied in many different fields as mathematics, applied science, engineering, economics, 
statistics and medical science. Optimization has a wide range of applications. The conventional design 
procedures are for the purpose of finding acceptable or adequate designs which satisfy the functional and 
other requirements of problems. In general, there is usually more than one acceptable design, and the goal of 
optimization is to select the best one in many of the options. The choice of objective function is depending on 
the nature of problem. The choice of the objective function seems to be a straightforward question. However, 
there may be cases of that the optimization with respect to a particular criterion possibly leads to the results 
not being satisfactory to another criterion (Rao, 1996). An optimization problem involving multiple objective 
functions is known as multi-objective problem, which usually arises a possibility of conflict. One simple way 
to handle the problem is to construct an overall object function as a linear combination of the conflicting 
multiple objective functions. Thus if (X) and (X) denote two objective functions, constructing a new 
 8 
transaction cost. Production cost contains capital, human-power and materiel, and the transaction cost 
includes the cost of managed economic systems. In this study, the factors affecting a company to do 
decision-making on outsourcing are transaction cost theory and core competency. 
 
3.1 Translog Cost Function 
Translog cost function is a more flexible type of function since it gives the production function fewer 
technical limitations and a more accurate approximation of actual production function. Translog cost function 
enables us to avoid using a function that has an unreasonably limited hypothesis. Moreover, Translog function 
may contain multi-dimensional of input and output. However, the biggest disadvantage of Translog function is 
the stipulation that no factors can be equal to zero. It also may not necessarily satisfy the condition of factor 
price global concavity. In spite of this disadvantage, Translog cost function is still widely accepted and 
applied. Diewert (1974) utilized duality theorem to derive Translog cost function from Translog production 
function, denoted as below. 
 
  Equation (2) 
 
Then, doing Second–Order Taylor Expansion Form to obtain the approximate function, 
 
+ + +  Equation (3) 
 
In which,  is the long term cost,  is the intercept, P is the price of investment factors and Y is the 
output. α, β, γ, and ρ represent estimated coefficients to satisfy the first-order homogeneity. Under these 
established standards of output, an increase in the factors price will proportionately increase the total cost. In 
addition, the cost function has to satisfy the following constraints of non-decreasing function in factor price, 
homogeneous degree of one in factor price, and concave function in factor price. Based on Battese’s and 
Coelli’s (1995) translog cost function, this study designs the formulas for both cost dimension and KA 
dimension, and the variables are defined in Table 1. 
 
 Equation (4) 
 
Table 1: The order of variable defined- formula TC 
Variable Define Unit Source 
TC Total cost Hundred million --- 
PK Capital cost Hundred million Questionnaire 
PL Labor cost Hundred million Questionnaire 
Q Output Hundred million Questionnaire 
 Parameter --- P&L 
 Parameter --- P&L 
 Parameter --- P&L 
 Parameter --- P&L 
 Parameter --- P&L 
 Parameter --- P&L 
V Random error --- --- 
i Questionnaire i --- Questionnaire 
   Note: Profit and Loss Statement (P&L) 
 
If the existing sample data extracted from the random data, the “questionnaire I” possesses the property 
of random variables. In short, if the sample is large enough, the average of will be zero. This study 
considered the following KA factors and devised the formula as below. Table 2 shows the definitions of 
 10 
Weighting Rank Rank 
Employee’s knowledge and skill (.355) .355 1 1 
Implicit knowledge in the physical system (.238) .238 1 2 
Management 
system (.264) 
System's maintenance and 
establishment 
.073128 3 6 
Encouragement, training, 
promotional planning 
.111408 1 3 
Knowledge deficit due to the 
employee’s leaving 
.079464 2 5 
Value and 
norms (.143) 
The KA of a department’s 
established in years 
.055198 2 7 
The KA of department head in 
tenure 
.087802 1 4 
 
4.1 The KA Questionnaire 
The second stage questionnaire is KA survey of questionnaire, and it is used to calculate the KA of R&D 
department at AUO. The condition of the second stage questionnaire is to confirm all the participants having a 
certain level of understanding about AUO’s R&D funding and actual processes. In order to understand the 
overall structure of the population, this study conducted a questionnaire for the recovery of the sample 
descriptive statistics, including staff education, seniority, the duty distribution and department distribution; 75 
questionnaires were sent, 32 were retrieved and the retrieval rate was 42.66%. After 2 unqualified 
questionnaires were deleted, the valid rate was 93.75%. Table 4 shows the expert distributions in AUO 
departments. 
 
Table 4: Department Distribution of Experts 
Department Number Percentage 
R&D 22 73.33% 
Outsource 4 13.33% 
Equipment Engineering 1 3.33% 
Photo Engineering 2 6.67% 
Produce 1 3.33% 
Total 30 100% 
 
In order to compute the regression test by using SPSS, this study obtains parameters  to by 
collecting the P&L of AUO and coordinates the variables TC, PK, PL and Q into a form. The results are 
shown in Table 5. 
 
Table 5: Parameters Value 
Variable Parameter Coefficient Standard Error t value 
Intercept  1.360 12.911 0.105 
  2.361. 3.611 0.654 
  -0.363 2.370 -0.153 
  -1.646 0.904 -1.882 
  0.062 0.218 0.284 
  -0.238 0.313 -0.76 
 
4.2 Calculation of PK 
According to the second stage questionnaire and Equation (5), variable PK needs to be converted to the 
corresponding five-point scales. In order to convert PK to the five-point scales, taking the standard deviation 
of ±0.5, ± 1.5 and ± 2.5 as the threshold value is essential, shown in Figure 4. The normal distribution is a 
continuous probability distribution of importance in many fields. It is a family of distributions of the same 
general form, differing in their location and scale parameters, which are the mean ("average") and standard 
 12 
without the consideration of other factors. The outsourcing percentage of questionnaires 3, 5, 10, 16, and 26 
are higher than 16%, and the corresponding costs are thus lower. Therefore it is obvious that the degree of 
outsourcing within a department of R&D affects the investment volume, which is not presented in equal 
proportions. 
 
 
Figure 5: Cost dimension analysis 
 
Equation (4) demonstrates the influential factors of Cost, which include capital cost- PK, labor cost- PL 
and output- Q. If cost is down, which is the major target of outsourcing, and then those factors need to be 
explored. This study does sensitivity analysis for Equation (4) by writing C++ language codes. In order to 
observe the model behavior or a change of circumstances, sensitivity analysis is used to model the variable 
changes in a particular context, and the results in this study are shown in Figures 6, 7, and 8. 
The analysis of Figure 6 is under the condition of fixed PL and Q; where value PL and Q are from the 
average of questionnaires, X-axis represents the amount of capital invested, and Y-axis represents the 
corresponding total cost. This study finds that the lower capital value investment, the higher total cost 
expenditure, and when capital investment is greater than a certain value, the cost will approach to 0. 
 
 
Figure 6: Sensitivity analyses of PK 
 
The analysis of Figure 7 is under the condition of fixed PK and Q, and the value PK and Q are from the 
average of questionnaires. X-axis represents the amount of personnel cost, and Y-axis represents the 
corresponding total cost. The results show that total cost is increased when the personnel cost is increased. 
Especially when personnel cost is higher than a certain value, the slope will become greater than 1. Therefore, 
the point, where the slope is greater than 1, can be regarded as a stop-loss point for enterprises. 
 
 14 
 
Figure 9: Analysis of KA dimension 
 
 
5. Conclusion and Recommendation 
The high-tech industry is an important economic engine in Taiwan and is bound to develop constantly by 
innovating and initiating its own brands. An enterprise’s abilities in knowledge creation, acquisition, and 
accumulation are beneficial to its propensity to innovate. Due to the current strategy of enhancing firm-level 
knowledge, it is essential to acquire knowledge by means of internal R&D and external alliances within 
companies in Taiwan. This study adapts academic theories with the assistance of practical and empirical 
results from expert interviews to analyze the phenomena of building a balance between knowledge held inside 
and outside enterprises to obtain an optimal model for accumulating knowledge. The purpose of this study is 
to find the balance between EMO and KA. Since R&D department is the core competence of companies, it 
usually performs lower percentage of EMO. Knowledge is dynamic, relevant, unstable, and varies from 
person to person (Nonaka, 1994). From the measured aspect of KA, Wigg (1997) depicted that knowledge is 
intangible and difficult to measure, but Davenport and Prusak (1998) addressed that although the knowledge 
itself cannot be measured, the application of the knowledge management activities can be possibly measured. 
Therefore, this study establishes a measured model measuring the KA vs. EMO within an organization. 
The actual outsourcing degree and cost dimension are expressed by range, and it is difficult to obtain the 
accurate data. However, operators and managers still can base on the results to understand the operation 
situation of cost and outsourcing preliminary, and then to estimate the KA within organization. This model can 
help managers to understand that how many resources of employees can be actually used under a capital 
investment. If the useable resource is much lower than actual investment, managers have to find what the 
problem is and make the improvement. Operators and managers also can know that how many profits should 
attain by employees’ KA. If the profits are much lower than a company actual should have, operators and 
managers have to find what the problem is. EMO involves contracting with another company or person to 
perform a particular function or service, and it is rapidly becoming a part of the worldwide business lexicon. 
However, because the specialized aspects of technical manpower not only require a diversity of skills but also 
impose an increasing need for technical workers, the combination of technical manpower needs and rapid 
industrial expansion has resulted in a significant imbalance between the supply of and demand for technical 
manpower. Therefore, EMO can play an important role in meeting the technical manpower needs of 
enterprises. To analyze the factors influencing EMO, this study, on the basis of theories proposed in the 
literature and practical interviews with a number of experts, classifies the factors influencing EMO into 
aspects of cost, resources, and strategy. It can be inferred from the empirical results presented here that cost is 
the most important variable influencing EMO and that, by combined consideration of costs and resources, a 
high degree of EMO utilization is more likely to be reached. The results also reveal that, for enterprises to 
achieve better results with EMO, combined consideration of the direct costs and talent resources within the 
enterprise is more important than combining cost and strategic considerations. 
Influential factors can also be served as reference for knowledge management. The most influential 
factors are employee’s knowledge and skill (0.355) and management system (0.246). Based on the fixed 
investment, the most efficient method to obviously improve KA within organization is to employ outstanding 
 16 
14–37. 
22. Nonaka, I. and Hirotaka, T., 1995. The Knowledge Creating Company. N.Y: Oxford University Press. 
23. Polanyi, M. (1967). The Tacit Dimension. New York: M.E. Sharp Inc. 
24. Quinn, J. B. and Hilmar, F.G., 1994. Strategic Outsourcing. Sloan Management Review, 43-55. 
25. Rao, S.S. (1996). Engineering Optimization: Theory and Practice. Publisher: John Wiley. 
26. Tikhomirov, V.M. (1990). Stories about Maxima and Minima. Providence, RI: American Mathematical 
Society. 
27. Walker, G., Weber, D. (1984), “A transaction cost approach to make-or-buy decisions,” Administration 
Science, 29, 373-391. 
28. Wernerfelt, B. (1989), “Firm Critical Resource to Corporate Strategy,” Journal of General Management, 
14:4-12. 
29. Wigg, K.M., 1997. Knowledge Management: Where Did It Come From and Where Will It Go? Expert 
Systems with Application, 13 (1), 1-14. 
30. Williamson, O. E., 1975. Markets and Hierarchies: Analyses and Antitrust Implications. The Free Press, 
New York. 
31. Wu, S.H. (1998), 9 Principles of Strategy, Taipei, Facial Culture Publisher. 
 Contents:  
The global economy has been gradually developing and aiming to promote the economic 
growth and to propel the industrial production. This article analyzes the competence of knowledge 
accumulation in Taiwan’s enterprises by expert interviews, Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), and 
fuzzy set theory. This article shows that the competence of knowledge accumulation can be divided 
into three major influential variables: knowledge integration ability (KIA), knowledge absorption 
ability (KAA), and knowledge sharing ability (KSA). The findings indicate that KIA in firm-level 
knowledge accumulation performs the highest degree of influence among the three influential 
variables. Based on the literature and expert interviews, three sub-variables of “systematic ability”, 
“mutual coordination ability” and “conventionalization ability” are extracted from the KIA variable. 
The results of fuzzy analysis indicate that "systematic ability" has a significant impact on 
knowledge accumulation. Furthermore, knowledge creation, access, and accumulative capacity 
assist in an enterprise’s innovation, development strategy, and competitive advantage to integrate, 
absorb and share knowledge. 
 
二、與會心得 
The high-tech industry is an important economic engine in Taiwan, and is bound to develop 
constantly in innovating and initiating its own brands. An enterprise’s abilities of knowledge 
creation, acquisition, and accumulation are beneficial to its innovation. On account of the current 
strategy to enhance firm-level knowledge, it is essential to acquire knowledge by means of internal 
R&D and external alliances within companies in Taiwan. This article uses academic theories with 
the assistance of practice and empirical results of expert interviews to analyze the phenomena of 
building a balance between knowledge inside and outside enterprises to obtain an optimal model for 
enterprises to accumulate knowledge. 
From research theories in the literature and practical interviews with a number of experts, this 
article identifies three influencing elements of firm-level knowledge accumulation: knowledge 
integration ability (KIA), knowledge absorption ability (KAA), and knowledge sharing ability 
(KSA). It is inferred through the empirical results that the cultivation of KIA is the most beneficial 
to enterprise knowledge accumulation. KIA is the ability to integrate diversified kinds of knowledge, 
both inside and outside enterprises. KIA attains the alternation and transformation between 
internalization and externalization of enterprise knowledge through systematization, interaction and 
coordination, and socialization processes. This article also finds that KSA is the catalyst that 
promotes the cultivation and transformation process of an enterprise’s abilities of knowledge 
accumulation. Therefore, cultivating a climate conducive to knowledge sharing and learning, 
Photo by Wen-Hsiang Lai 
A Competence of Firm-level Knowledge Accumulation in Enterprises 
 
Wen-Hsiang Lai 
whlai@fcu.edu.tw 
 
Feng Chia University 
100, Wenhwa Rd., Seatwen, Taichung 40724, Taiwan 
 
Abstract 
The global economy has been gradually developing and aiming to promote the economic 
growth and to propel the industrial production. This article analyzes the competence of knowledge 
accumulation in Taiwan’s enterprises by expert interviews, Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), and 
fuzzy set theory. This article shows that the competence of knowledge accumulation can be divided 
into three major influential variables: knowledge integration ability (KIA), knowledge absorption 
ability (KAA), and knowledge sharing ability (KSA). The findings indicate that KIA in firm-level 
knowledge accumulation performs the highest degree of influence among the three influential 
variables. Based on the literature and expert interviews, three sub-variables of “systematic ability”, 
“mutual coordination ability”, and “conventionalization ability” are extracted from the KIA variable. 
The results of fuzzy analysis indicate that "systematic ability" has a significant impact on 
knowledge accumulation. Furthermore, knowledge creation, access, and accumulative capacity 
assist in an enterprise’s innovation, development strategy, and competitive advantage to integrate, 
absorb and share knowledge. 
 
Keywords: Innovation, knowledge accumulation, knowledge integration, knowledge absorption, 
knowledge sharing 
 
 
1. Introduction 
According to the report of International Data Group (IDG), the percentages of knowledge 
workers in total labor workers had been raised from 20% in 1999 to 40% in 2003. Therefore, it is 
obvious that accumulating the knowledge during the process of R&D and performing the industrial 
mechanism by making use of services of technology, knowledge, and organization will be the basis 
of innovation and the core of future development in industries. Knowledge accumulation and 
circulation have been the foundation for the development of knowledge-based industries. Therefore, 
how to enhance firms’ R&D ability and constantly accumulate firm-level knowledge has become a 
challenge for industries in this era of knowledge innovation. The objectives of this article are to 
explore the mode of knowledge accumulation in Taiwan’s enterprises, to explore in-depth the 
influential variables of firm-level knowledge accumulation, and to probe into the institutions and 
modes of knowledge creation, acquisition, and accumulation. First of all, this article obtains 
influential variables and sub-variables based on the theoretical foundation in the literature and 
practical opinions of experts collected in a questionnaire. From the experts’ opinions, this article 
resources to fully apply the value of knowledge, but also integrate required knowledge from the 
plentiful external knowledge bases [17]. From the viewpoints of knowledge-based theory and 
knowledge market mechanisms, the assets of firm-level knowledge can be created, accumulated, 
and shared through the construction and maintenance of an effective mechanism of knowledge 
management to enhance a firm’s core competitive forces. Through KIA, enterprises should 
systematize and structure their knowledge by combining various kinds of internal and external 
knowledge. 
Businesses differ greatly in their day-to-day innovation practice and in the needs of absorption 
and utilization of knowledge. Moreover, innovative capacity in business markets is determined by 
knowledge absorptive capacity. Grant (1996b) finds a “common language”1 between or within 
enterprises aids members to learn and absorb knowledge more quickly and effectively. Specific 
methods include educational training and well-constructed meetings. Cohen and Levinthal (1990) 
point out that an enterprise’s ability to absorb and assimilate knowledge leads to self-reliance of 
innovation, rooted in an enterprise’s communication interface of internal and external 
communication mechanisms. A smooth communication interface offers more opportunity for an 
enterprise to absorb knowledge. As to the tacitness and explicitness of knowledge, most tacit 
knowledge is obtained by constructing knowledge networks and sending knowledgeable workers to 
explore situations or personal experiences. A knowledge network can be achieved from close 
interactive communication and mutual cross-boundary coordination. By participating in the actual 
processes, learners can acquire experiences and produce new knowledge. In order to digest, 
integrate, and internalize knowledge, it is essential for enterprises to seize the possession of KAA. 
 A firm’s KAA is related to the attributes of its alliance and the concept of “dyadic level” 
(relative absorptive capacity). The concept of “dyadic level” can be differentiated into three 
dimensions: (1) the ability to cognize and assess new external knowledge; (2) the ability to digest 
new knowledge; and (3) the ability to commercialize new external knowledge. Berghman, 
Matthyssens, and Vandenbempt (2006) distinguish knowledge absorption by the marketing 
practices of knowledge recognition, knowledge assimilation, and knowledge transformation. 
Atuahene-Gima (1992) indicates that potential KAA constructed from learning engagement, 
experience absorption, and market orientation has a positive influence on knowledge acquisition 
and innovation. Further, KAA not only relates to a company’s human assets, relative knowledge 
accumulation mechanism, enterprise culture, or knowledge distribution, but also relates to the 
knowledge which the company has accumulated from its R&D, manufacturing, and marketing, as 
well as the sensitivity of external technical knowledge [2]. The efficiency of KAA depends on the 
abilities of distinguishing valued knowledge and transforming diversified knowledge into 
knowledge with a “common language”, which is easy to be absorbed and applied. In addition, the 
absorption ability not only depends on the members of an enterprise, but also on managerial attitude 
in the enterprise. 
Knowledge sharing is the activity of exchanging knowledge among people or organizations. 
Knowledge sharing can provide enterprises with a solid basis for strategic differentiation. The 
                                                 
1
 “Common language” refers to a simplified way of expressing knowledge while communicating with partners. 
and level 3 variables. Table 1 shows the definitions of the major variables, and Table 2 shows the 
definitions of the sub-variables. 
 
 
Level 1 
(Outcomes) 
Level 2 
(Major variables) 
Level 3 
(Sub-variables) 
Knowledge Accumulation 
Knowledge Integration Ability 
(KIA) 
Knowledge Absorption Ability 
(KAA) 
Knowledge Sharing Ability 
(KSA) 
Mutual Coordination Ability 
Systematic Ability 
Conventionalization Ability 
Identification Ability 
Resource Investment Ability 
Standardization Ability 
Cooperative Relationship 
Motivation and Reward System 
Information Management System 
Application and Commercialization Ability 
 
Figure 1: Hierarchical framework of firm-level knowledge accumulation 
 
Table 1: Definitions of major variables 
Major variable Definition 
KIA A kind of knowledge sorting ability, which circulates inside and outside of enterprises, 
quickly integrating resources in a systematic, structural, and interactive way 
KAA A kind of ability to identify, absorb, internalize, and apply the knowledge which circulates the 
inside and outside knowledge of enterprises 
KSA A kind of ability to stimulate firms and individuals to share knowledge, including cooperative 
relationships between individuals, rewards, fundamental sharing tool devices etc. 
 
Table 2: Definition of sub-variables 
Major 
variable 
Sub-variable Definition 
KIA 
Systematic Ability The ability to solidify diversified forms of knowledge into guide books, standard 
operating procedures (SOPs), data forms, and patent and technology reports 
through structured signs, plans, and programs 
Mutual Coordination 
Ability 
The ability to make knowledge flow in a dynamic way through interactive 
meetings, communication and coordination, and educational training to assist in 
knowledge accumulation 
Conventionalization 
Ability 
The ability to turn diversified types of knowledge between individuals into a 
similar habit through values, beliefs, implied norms, or privities 
KAA 
Resource Investment 
Ability 
The ability of enterprises to invest visible and invisible costs such as money, 
time, and ability to absorb acquired knowledge 
Identification Ability The ability to identify the sensitivity of knowledge and identify knowledge 
useful to the enterprise 
Standardization 
Ability 
The ability to unify diversified forms of knowledge into knowledge in a 
common language, such as interpretation, translation, common forms, or 
common norms 
Application and 
Commercialization 
Ability 
The ability to internalize diversified forms of knowledge to use in future product 
development, workflow refinement, or management skills 
KSA 
Motivation and 
Reward System 
The norms or systems that give rewards, salary raises, bonuses, promotions, 
praise, or good evaluations to members who share knowledge, and the 
motivation and reward systems that arouse individuals to share knowledge 
 
Figure 2: Inference of Mamdani model of KIA, KAA, and KSA membership functions 
 
3.3.2 Membership functions 
A membership function is characterized by a fuzzy linguistic term given a support value, i.e. 
degree of membership. Membership values vary from 0 to 1, representing non- to full membership. 
Membership functions commonly used include triangular functions and bell-shaped functions [24]. 
The bell-shaped function contains continuous output and smoothly generates less fuzzy square 
measures, reducing fuzziness. However, such a function requires greater computational effort. In 
order to reduce the complexity of FLIS computations, the author uses triangular functions as input 
and bell-shaped functions as output. The final membership functions of the major variables are 
shown in Figure 3. 
 
 
Figure 3: Construction of membership functions in MATLAB’s fuzzy logic toolbox 
 
Ragin (2000, p.158) emphasizes that assigning fuzzy scores with the midpoint value to be the 
mean or median of the range of a dependent value “would be a serious mistake”. Therefore, the 
author set three qualitative anchors, Moderate High, Moderate Middle, and Moderate Low, within 
the input and output criteria of Moderate. Each input criterion represents diverse influences on 
performance. Therefore, to determine the evaluation standard requires an individual fuzzy set for 
each criterion. Determinations of the maximum and minimum levels for the 3 criteria, KIA, KAA, 
and KSA, are shown in Table 4. The evaluation of fuzzy scales is made for easy interpretation. The 
k values for High, Moderate High, Moderate Middle, Moderate Low, and Low are assigned as 3.0, 
2.5, 2.0, 1.5, and 1.0, respectively. 
 
Table 4: Definition of input criteria and output values 
Knowledge 
accumulation 
KIA 
Systematic Ability 
5×5×5=125 
875 
Mutual Coordination Ability 
Conventionalization Ability 
KAA 
Resource Investment Ability 
5×5×5×5=625 
Identification Ability 
Standardization Ability 
Application and Commercialization Ability 
KSA 
Motivation and Reward System 
5×5×5=125 Cooperative Relationship 
Information Management System 
 
 
4. Result and Analysis 
The AHP questionnaire analysis calculated by Expert Choice 2000 and Excel are shown in 
Table 6. The result in this article shows that both the consistency index (CI) and consistency ratio 
(CR) values in the hierarchy comparison analysis are less than or equal to 0.1, conforming with the 
acceptable deviation scope suggested by Saaty (1980). From Table 6, it is obvious that KIA is the 
most important variable (w=0.558) considering the firm-level knowledge accumulation in 
enterprises. The SA is regarded as one of the most important KIA sub-variables. It is also inferred 
that the ability to solidify diversified forms of knowledge into structured forms of data or 
documents is important for enterprises for integrating knowledge and, further, to accumulate 
firm-level knowledge. The second most important variable in this article is KSA (w=0.232), which 
shows that appropriate mechanisms of sharing knowledge are beneficial to firm-level knowledge 
accumulation within enterprises. The MRS sub-variable of KSA conforms that proper motivation 
and rewards are beneficial for generating knowledge sharing behaviors. According to the AHP 
results, although KAA has a relatively low weighting value (w=0.21), it is almost equivalent to KSA 
based on the experts’ opinions. From experts’ opinion, the RIA sub-variable of KAA also has a 
significant influence on knowledge accumulation within enterprises. 
 
Table 6: Hierarchy weight (w) analyses of knowledge accumulation 
Major 
variable 
w for major 
variable 
Sub-variable Abbr. 
w for 
sub-variable 
KIA 0.558 
Systematic Ability SA 0.457 
Mutual Coordination Ability MCA 0.274 
Conventionalization Ability CA 0.269 
KAA 0.210 
Resource Investment Ability RIA 0.335 
Identification Ability IA 0.244 
Standardization Ability SA 0.206 
Application and Commercialization Ability ACA 0.215 
KSA 0.232 
Motivation and Reward System MRS 0.302 
Cooperative Relationship CR 0.380 
Information Management System IMS 0.318 
 
The weighting values (w) of the major variables and sub-variables are based on the AHP 
analysis of the experts’ questionnaires. In order to conduct the relevant analysis on various 
variables, the author adopts the MATLAB fuzzy tool to distinguish the relevancy and degrees of 
influence between the various variables. Table 7 shows the fuzzy range of outcome value P with 
respect to KIA, KAA, and KSA. 
Figures 6 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) show the fuzzy surfaces of the KAA sub-variables. From the 
AHP analysis of the KAA sub-variables, this article sees that the most important variable 
influencing KAA is the RIA sub-variable (w=0.335). Figures 6 (a), (b), and (c) demonstrate that in 
order to reach the High degree of strength of KAA, RIA should cooperate with IA, SA, and ACA. 
Figures 6 (d), (e) and (f) show that the degrees of strength of IA, SA and ACA are relatively close to 
each other (w of IA=0.244; w of SA=0.206; w of ACA=0.215), resulting in a symmetric influence 
on KAA. 
   
   (a)        (b)      (c) 
   
   (d)        (e)      (f) 
Figure 6: Fuzzy surfaces of KAA sub-variables 
 
Among the theories of studying knowledge accumulation, quite a few experts and researchers 
have pointed out the importance of knowledge sharing to knowledge environment construction ([9], 
[14], [22], [23]). An efficient knowledge creation mechanism is useful for improving the 
performance of knowledge creation; however, KSA determines effective knowledge creation. From 
the AHP analysis of KSA sub-variables, this article sees that the most important variable influencing 
KSA is the CR sub-variable (w=0.380). Figures 7 (a) and (b) demonstrate that in order to reach the 
High degree of strength of KSA, CR should cooperate with MRS and IMS. In Figure 7 (c), it is also 
obvious that the degrees of strength of MRS and IMS are similar (w of MRS=0.302; w of 
IMS=0.318), resulting in a symmetric influence on KSA. 
   
   (a)        (b)      (c) 
Figure 7: Fuzzy surfaces of KSA sub-variables 
 
x 
y 
z 
x y 
z 
x 
y 
z 
x 
y 
z 
x 
y 
z 
x 
y 
z 
x 
y 
z 
x 
y 
z 
x 
y 
z 
Management Review, 23(1), 162-169, 1998. 
[4]. Berghman, L., P. Matthyssens, K. Vandenbempt, “Building competences for new customer 
value creation: An exploratory study”, Industrial Marketing Management, 35(8), 961-973, 
2006. 
[5]. Bock, G. W., Y. G. Kim, "Breaking the myths of rewards", Information Resources Management 
Journal, 15(2), 14-21, 2002. 
[6]. Bonora, E. A., Revang, “A Strategic Framework for Analyzing Professional Service 
Firms-Development Strategies for Sustained Performance”, Strategic Management Society 
Interorganizational Conference, Toronto, Canada, 1991. 
[7]. Ciborra, C. U., G. Patriota, "Groupware and teamwork in R&D: limits to learning and 
innovation", R&D Management, 28(1), 1-10, 1998. 
[8]. Cohen, W. M., D. A. Levinthal, “Absorptive capacity; A new perspective on learning and 
innovation”, Administrative Science Quarterly, 35,128-152, 1990. 
[9]. Davenport, T. H., L. Prusak, “Working knowledge: How organizations management what they 
know”, Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 1998. 
[10]. Fuller, S., “Strategies of Knowledge Integration”, in M.K. Tolba (ed.), Our Fragile World: 
Challenges, Opportunities for Sustainable Development, EOLS Publishers, Oxford, 1215-1228, 
2001. 
[11]. Grant, R. M., “Prospering in dynamically-competitive environments: Organizational capability 
as knowledge accumulation”, Organization Science, 7(4), 375-388, 1996a. 
[12]. Grant, R. M., “Toward a knowledge-based theory of the firm”, Strategic Management Journal, 
17,109-122, 1996b. 
[13]. Hendriks, P., “Why share knowledge? The influence of ICT on motivationfor knowledge 
sharing”, Knowledge and Process Management, 6(2), 91-100, 1999. 
[14]. Iwata, S., S. Kurokawa, K. Fujisue, “An Analysis of Global R&D Activities of Japanese MNCs 
in the US From the Knowledge-Based View”, IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 
53(3), 361-379, 2006. 
[15]. Kogut, B., U. Zander, “Knowledge of the firm, integration capabilities, and the replication of 
technology”, Organization Science, 3, 383-397, 1992. 
[16]. Krauss, R.M., S. R. Fussell, “Mutual Knowledge and Communications Effectiveness, 
Intellectual Teamwork：Social and Technological Foundations of Cooperative Work”, NJ, 
Hillsdale, 111-145, 1990. 
[17]. Nonaka, I., “A dynamic theory of organizational knowledge creation”, Organization Science, 
5(1), 14–37, 1994. 
[18]. Nonaka, I., H. Takeuchi, “The Knowledge-Creating Company”, Oxford University Press, New 
York, 1995. 
[19]. Petrash, G., “Dow's journal to a knowledge value management culture”, European 
Management Journal, 14(4), 365-373, 1996. 
[20]. Ragin, C. C., “Fuzzy-Set Social Science”, Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 2000. 
[21]. Saaty, T. L., “The analytic hierarchy process”, New York, McGraw-Hill, 1980. 
[22]. Senge, P. M., “Sharing knowledge”, Executive Excellence, 14, 17-18, 1997. 
無研發成果推廣資料 
