and the thickness is 1/8 of chord length (2) the flapping motion is along stroke plane, (3) 
laminar and unsteady flow (4) wing is a rigid body. 
    The software that used in this study is FLUENT, which solves Navier-Stokes 
equations in finite volume method. The flapping motion contains a series of translation 
and rotation, so the flow field is also complex. To predict the flow pattern accurately, 
construct a suitable mesh system is necessary and the dynamics mesh also has to be 
considered. The region near the flapping wing will be constructed as O-type structure 
grids because there are more variations of pressure and velocity. O-type structure grids 
can maintain highly orthogonal during mesh motion. In the region between rectangular 
and triangle cell, we found that the volume between these two cells must be similar to 
each other. The advantage of using hybrid grids is when the grids move in every time step, 
only the outer triangle grids will regenerate and the rectangular grids around the flapping 
wing will move with flapping motion synchronously. In this study, to simulate the real 
surrounding environment, we set the pressure boundary condition and set to be zero 
initially. During calculation, we use the second order implicit discretization in time, and 
in momentum, we could use the QUICK scheme. Finally, the PISO algorithm is 
implemented to discrete the velocity-pressure coupling term. Although the implicit 
method takes more computing time but it is much stable in every time step. 
    Secondly, we constructed the gust wind model to simulate the real case that MAVs 
could face in their flight. Although the Von Karman model and The Dryden PSD (Power 
Spectrum Density) model are used to simulate the atmospheric turbulence widely, they 
are somewhat difficult to use in time domain. In this study, we use different approach to 
simulate 2-D gust wind profiles. The model is given in terms of atmospheric turbulence 
velocity components that can be considered as fluctuations superposed on a mean wind. 
As a first step, the existing high level turbulence wind profiles could assumed as strong 
low level gust wind. Before we proceed with building gust wind model, we must define 
turbulence intensity first. We use the high altitude CAT (Clear Air Turbulence) prediction 
parameters to quantify the wind severity (T1) and verify the turbulence intensity between 
the real wind. In nature, insects usually fly at low level altitude (less than 500m) and 
hardly suffer gust wind similar to the model we built. Although these wind profiles are 
hardly ever encountered by ordinary flapping flight insects, but still it could represent the 
most severe weather conditions that an insect might face, so still being considered here.  
 
結果與討論 
    Considering the flapping wing with thickness 1/8c and Re=157. During downstroke, 
we observed there are two rotating vortices on upper surface, which create a lower 
pressure area, and pressure difference generated which lead to lift. Before the vortices get 
rid of the wing surface, the delayed stall which discussed in Dickinson’s experiment 
occurs because the lower pressure on upper wing surface (Fig. 1). During upstroke, the 
wing also create a weaker vortices on lower surface, that lead to the wing generate thrust 
(Fig. 2). From Fig. 2, we can observe that the wing is sufficiently far away from the 
strong vortices generated in the previous cycle and is ready to repeat the whole process 
without interfering with the previous vortices. Fig. 3 shows lift we calculated comparing 
with Wang and Miao’s. Our pattern is similar to Wang’s result, but the magnitude is 
similar to Miao’s result. Besides the difference of grids, numerical method is also 
different from Wang’s calculation which was using finite difference method. From 2-D 
