1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究成果報告(精簡版) 
在混合實境中實現產品拆卸組裝 
Product Disassembly in a Mixed Reality Environment 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 100-2221-E-002-058 
執 行 期 限：100 年 08 月 01 日至 101 年 07 月 31 日 
主 持 人：陳湘鳳  國立臺灣大學機械工程學系暨研究所 
計畫參與人員： 碩士班研究生 林育緯 國立臺灣大學機械工程學系暨研究所 
 碩士班研究生 陳鏗合 國立臺灣大學機械工程學系暨研究所 
 博士班研究生 吳健民 國立臺灣大學機械工程學系暨研究所 
  
 
摘要 
混合實境是利用電腦，將真實環境與虛擬環境
整合的一種科技。將混合實境應用在模擬產品
拆卸組裝，可估計拆卸組裝的時間，以及拆卸
組裝的可行性，以減少產品的開發成本。本研
究以混合實境實現完整的選擇性拆卸流程，加
強使用者的真實感。在過去許多應用中，使用
者藉由畫面上的參考點，或人體模型代替真實
人體進行操作。為了改善這種間接操作的方
式，在這個系統中，使用者可以在真實與虛擬
結合的環境中看到真實的手進行操作。在這個
系統中，模擬拆卸的操作需要能達到畫面流
暢、直覺操作、有真實感、對使用者友善且能
有效率為原則。本研究以一個驅動器產品為案
例，在此系統中實行拆卸操作，並以此案例討
論此系統的優劣。 
 
關鍵字:混合實境、選擇性拆卸序列規劃 
 
Abstract 
Mixed reality (MR) is a technology using 
computers to combine virtual environment with 
real environment. Using MR to simulate product 
disassembly/assembly can estimate 
disassembly/assembly time and evaluate 
disassembly/assembly feasibility to reduce 
production cost. In this research, a selective 
disassembly sequence planning was 
implemented in a MR environment to enhance 
the realism and immersion of simulation. In the 
prior research, users used references or virtual 
human models to implement disassembly 
processes. To provide a more intuitive operation, 
MR was used so that users can use their own 
real hands to operate disassembly processes. The 
system was implemented to have a smooth, 
intuitive, immersive, user-friendly and effective 
operation. This research used an electronic 
driver as a case study to show the process of the 
developed MR-based disassembly process. The 
advantages and disadvantages of the system 
were also discussed.  
 
Key words: Mixed reality, selective disassembly 
sequence planning 
 
1. Introduction  
 
Virtual reality (VR) has been developed for 
a long time and is continuously improving. VR 
uses human’s visual, auditory and tactile senses 
to make human feel as in the real world. It was 
originally applied to training difficult job 
operations. Nowadays, VR is also applied to 
many areas such as product design, 
entertainment, and medical. Developers are 
committed to improving VR immersion by 
different methods. With advances in technology, 
performance of hardware and software is 
improving VR immersion.  
3 
grabbing method. Through the action, users can 
grasp a virtual component or hold a virtual tool. 
Some parts can be removed by hands and some 
with virtual tools.  
Grasping is performed when a user’s hand 
is close to the graspable realm of a virtual object 
and makes a grasping action. In this system, 
there is a reference point for grasping. The point 
is extended out from the bottom of the middle 
finger about 2/3 of the finger length that 
perpendicular to the palm of the hand, as shown 
in figure 1. The point is located at the position 
for grasping objects. Graspable areas of virtual 
objects are also predefined. If the hand can 
touch the virtual object while grasping, it means 
the graspable point is in the graspable area. For 
example, as shown in figure 2, the graspable 
area is defined by the red frame.  
 
Figure 1. Graspable point 
 
 
Figure 2. Graspable areas 
 
2.4 Remove components by hands 
When a component is not bound by any 
constrains, the component can be removed if no 
other obstacles lying in the removal direction. 
The component can be removed with one to 
more than one degree of freedom. In this system, 
dismantling operation uses constrain-based 
method. First, the component places at the initial 
position before any operation, as shown in 
figure 3(a). Second, when the users grasp the 
component, the component moves with hand, 
but under the constraint of one-translation 
motion, as shown in figure 3(b). Base on the 
degree of freedom, penetration between the 
component and the product will not happen 
while the hands tilt or deviate. Next, as shown in 
figure 3(c), after the component is removed, the 
component will freely move with hand with 6 
degree of freedom before the hand releasing the 
grasping gesture. Finally, the component is 
released while the grasping gesture changed, as 
shown in figure 3(d).  
 
 
 
Figure 3. Disassembly of a virtual 
component 
 
2.5 Remove components with tools 
 Some parts such as screws, nails and bolts 
cannot be removed by free hands. When a screw 
has to been removed, screwdriver is needed. 
Specific tools are used for removing fasteners. 
In this system, virtual screws are removed by a 
virtual screwdriver. The dismantling process is 
described as follow. First, the grasping realm of 
the hand moves close to the handle and the hand 
picks up the screwdriver. Second, the tip of the 
tool moves close to the fastener and align to the 
correspond position. Next, the screwdriver’s tip 
attaches with the screw by magnetic force. Then, 
the user rotates the screwdriver. The screw is 
pulled out and removed from the product with 
continuous rotation. Finally, remove the screw 
completely and place the tool aside.  
 
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
5 
 
Figure 7. 3D CAD model of the driver 
 
When disassembling a part, the color of the 
part will change. For example, when component 
“6” is the next part, component “6” will become 
red-color (figure 8(a)). If the graspable point is 
in the graspable area, component “6” will 
become skin color (figure 8(b)). When the hand 
grasps component “6”, component “6” will 
become light-pink color (figure 8(c)) and the 
color will keep the same until component “6” is 
completely pulled out (figure 8(d)). After pulling 
out component “6”, component “6” will become 
the light-purple color (figure 8(e)). Finally, the 
hand releases the part (figure 5.6(f)). 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
 
(f) 
 
Figure 8. Steps for disassembling part “6” 
 
If the part is a fastener, the fastener will 
become red, and the tool color will change to 
green. The fastener color will change to green 
gradually when the fastener is moving out of the 
product (figure 9). After dismantling and 
releasing the current part, the next part to be 
disassembled will be highlighted in red. Users 
can dismantle the next part based on the color 
information until all the parts in the sequence 
are disassembled, as shown in figure 9. 
 
5. Discussion 
 The developed MR system is immersive 
and intuitive for hands-on disassembly operation. 
Different from most VR applications, in MR, 
virtual human models or substitute indicators are 
not display. Users see their real hands or real 
bodies, instead of virtual models and indicators. 
Visual effects of the MR increase the sense of 
reality. Hand action recognize by devices is 
more stable and less cost of computation than 
visual-based method. However, installation and 
setup all devices are cumbersome. Equipment 
used is much more expensive than camera. 
 1
 
國科會研究計畫出差報告 
 
The Ninth International Symposium on Tools and Methods of 
Competitive Engineering 
TMCE 2012 
 
Karlsruhe, Germany 
 
May 7-11, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
陳湘鳳 教授 
 
國立台灣大學機械工程系 
 
 
July 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3
 Industrial application case studies of sustainable product, process and 
service innovations  
 New advancements in the theories, methodologies, approaches and 
best practices of social and ecological sustainability  
 Economic policies, strategies, methods and standards of 
sustainability and resource management in geographical, economic, 
industrial and social contexts  
 Opportunities and challenges for sustainable research, education, 
design and practice in the 21st century  
 Technical environment analysis, and distributed collaborative 
information and knowledge exploration  
 Interconnection between social and ecological sustainability and 
cyber-physical systems  
 Multi-sensorial input and visualization, and abstract, virtual and 
physical prototyping for cyber-physical systems  
 Sensor technologies, sensor networks, and their applications in 
sustainability-enhancing systems  
 Transmission/communication technologies, and their application in 
sustainability-enhancing systems  
 Next generations Internet, wireless, ad hoc networking, and their 
applications in sustainability- enhancing systems  
 Information mining, object retrieval, knowledge synthesis and agent 
structures in sustainability- enhancing systems  
 5
The research used a micro speaker to simulate different surface texture. 
Users can feel realistic surface texture feedback by active touching. I 
received a lot of positive comments after my presentation. Other sessions of 
the conference included “Enablers for product development”, “Design, 
innovation and development”, “Advanced manufacturing approaches”, 
“Smart agent technologies”. “Human factor in design”, “Shape modeling in 
applications”, “Design optimization methods”, etc. The conference also 
included several tutorial sessions and keynote speeches. 
2.3. Conference tour 
The conference also organized a tour to Heidelberg. Heidelberg is a 
historical city, full of tradition and culture. Figures 2 and 3 show the photos 
which I took in Heidelberg.  
During the conferences, I met and talked with several international 
engineering design and manufacturing researchers, including Dr. Yong 
Chen from Shanghai Jiaotong University, Dr. Uma Jayaram from 
Washington State University, Prof. Linhong Ji from Tsinghua University 
(China), Dr. Ameersing Luximon from Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Dr. Yan Wang from Georgia Institute Technology, etc. 
3. Conclusions 
Developing innovative tools and methods has been an important 
research topic in engineering design and manufacturing. As a result, it is 
important to attend international conferences related to tools and methods 
in engineering design and manufacturing. Attending the conference gave 
me an opportunity to explore the latest technologies and enrich my research. 
At this conference, I gained a lot of knowledge and met a lot of top 
international researchers. I considered it a fruitful conference.  
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/08/19
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 利用力回饋及擴充實境進行產品拆卸評估
計畫主持人: 陳湘鳳
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-002-058- 學門領域: 資訊技術及系統整合
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
