 2
The main objective of this integrated project (PI: 
Prof. Maria Yuang) is the provision of the basic 
transport and QoS guarantees over metropolitan 
optical and wireless access networks interconnected 
via optical metro mesh/ring backbone networks. 
Sub-project 1 (PI: Prof. Maria Yuang) carried out the 
design and experimentation of a high-performance 
optical packet-switched WDM metro ring network; 
Sub-project 2 (PI: Prof. Chung-Ju Chang) designs a 
dynamic  multicast traffic grooming scheme to 
maximize utilization and minimize hops; Sub-project 
3 (PI: Prof. Po-Lung Tien) proposes a Hopfield 
Neural Network (HNN) based QoS-enabled optical 
packet scheduling algorithm which inherit the highly 
efficient property from the parallel computation 
nature of HNN; Sub-project 4 (PI: Prof. Po-Ning 
Chen) extend the constructed codes that were 
originally designed for channels with constant 
coefficients to channels with varying channel 
coefficients within a codeword block were made; and 
finally Sub-project 5 (PI: Prof. Y. C. Chen) propose a 
cross-layering IPv6 fast handover scheme which 
features integrated layer 2/3 messages and fast 
network re-entry methods in WiMAX network. 
Keywords: Wavelength Division Multiplexing 
(WDM), Metropolitan Area Network (MAN), Optical 
Packet Switching (OPS), Medium Access Control 
(MAC), Traffic Grooming, Multicast, Time-varying 
Multipath Fading Channel, Channel Estimation, 
Channel Equalization, Error Correcting Coding, High 
Mobility, Multimode Wireless Access, Quality of 
Service (QoS), Cross-Layering, Handover. 
3. Project Motivation and Objective 
With the demand growth of the triple-play 
application, the design and implementation of next 
generation network require exceptional considerations 
to satisfy the QoS requirement of voice, video, 
real-time video-conference, and data. Integrated 
technologies of optical and wireless networks have 
been considered to be a future tendency to support 
triple-play. Optical network, adopting the wavelength 
division multiplexing (WDM) technology, provides 
the high capacity, high reliability, and high flexibility. 
However, optical network currently faces some 
technological limitations, such as the lack of optical 
signal processing, lack of feasible optical buffer 
technologies, and large switching overhead. In order 
to reduce the effect which these limitations incur, the 
network architecture, media access control, traffic 
grooming mechanism, and switch scheduler need the 
well-advised consideration and design. Wireless 
network also faces some important challenges. To 
support high-mobility and high bandwidth wireless 
network, the channel construction and error protection 
mechanism must be re-design. The fast handover and 
QoS support in wireless environment also need to 
co-ordinate in view of the network condition. 
To support end-to-end data transport, the technical 
problem of different scope of network and the 
interconnection between wide area network and local 
area network need the different solution. Generally 
speaking, there are three types of networks to be 
re-designed: wide-area long-haul backbone network, 
metropolitan core network, and the “last mile”, or 
so-called access networks. First, due to steady traffic 
resulting from high degree of multiplexing, 
next-generation long-haul networks are based on the 
Optical Circuit Switching (OCS) technology by 
simply making relatively static WDM channel 
utilization. Second, a metropolitan core network 
behaves as transitional bandwidth distributors 
between the optical Internet and access networks. 
Unlike long-haul backbone networks, metro networks 
exhibit highly dynamic traffic demand, rendering 
static WDM channel utilization completely infeasible. 
Finally, access networks are responsible for providing 
bandwidth directly to end-users. Two most promising 
technologies have been optical access and wireless 
access networks, respectively. Due to superior 
performance of fiber optics and tremendous 
bandwidth demand, providing broadband access and 
services through optical access technology becomes 
indispensable. Finally, regarding wireless access 
networks, the new demand of wireless 
communications in recent years inspires a quick 
advance in wireless transmission technology. 
Technology blossoms in both high-mobility low-bit- 
rate and low-mobility high-bit-rate transmissions. 
Apparently, the next challenge in wireless 
communications would be to reach high transmission 
rate under high mobility. 
signal processing and optical buffers, a current 
technological limitation faced by OPS. 
Numerous topologies and architectures [3-14] for 
OPS WDM MANs have been proposed in recent 
years. Of these proposals, the structure of slotted rings 
[4-14] has received the most attention. 
Comprehensive surveys of WDM metro slotted-ring 
networks can be found in the literature [3]. While 
most of the work [8,9] is simulation driven, only a 
handful [4,7] involve experimental prototypes. 
Because experimental prototyping has been one of 
our major tasks, we assessed two experimental testbed 
systems that are relevant to our work, focusing on 
three key challenges pertaining to OPS WDM 
slotted-ring networks. They are the following: (1) the 
scalable design of networks, particularly with respect 
to the number of wavelengths; (2) the design and 
implementation of high-speed photonic hardware 
components (e.g., fast tunable receivers, optical slot 
erasers); and (3) the design and implementation of 
medium access control (MAC) schemes [3] that 
achieve high statistical multiplexing gain and satisfy 
diverse and stringent delay-throughput requirements 
under a wide range of traffic loads and burstiness. 
First, Ring Optical Network (RingO) [7] is a 
unidirectional WDM slotted ring network with no 
more than N nodes where N is equal to the number of 
wavelengths. Each node is equipped with an array of 
fixed-tuned transmitters and one fixed-tuned receiver 
operating on a given home wavelength that identifies 
the node. Such a design gives rise to a scalability 
problem. RingO employs a MAC protocol, called a 
synchronous round robin with reservations (SR3) [8]. 
To achieve high utilization and fairness, SR3 employs 
a combination of token-based access and 
slot-reservation mechanisms. Unfortunately, under 
heavy loads RingO experiences deteriorating access 
delay as a result of an increase in cycle length. 
Second, Hybrid Optoelectronic Ring NETwork 
(HORNET) [4] is a bi-directional WDM slotted ring 
network in which each node is equipped with a 
tunable transmitter and a fixed-tuned receiver 
(TT-FR). Note that although fast tunable transmitters 
[15] with a laser tuning time up to several 
nanoseconds have emerged, fast tunable receivers [16] 
operating on the order of nanoseconds remain 
virtually unavailable. HORNET uses a MAC protocol, 
called a Distributed Queue Bidirectional Ring 
(DQBR), which is a modified version of the IEEE 
802.16 Distributed Queue Dual Bus (DQDB) protocol 
[17]. Specifically, DQBR requires each node to 
maintain a distributed queue via a pair of counters per 
wavelength. The counting system ensures that packets 
are sent in the order they arrive at the network. With 
DQBR, HORNET achieves acceptable utilization and 
fairness at the expense of high control complexity for 
Figure 2. HOPSMAN architecture. 
Figure 3. OPACS- system architecture. 
(a) System architecture (W=4) 
(b) Electro-Absorption (EA) Modulation- an example
 4
 6
re-transmitted. Second, taking diverse traffic patterns 
and burstiness into account, OPACS employs a 
variant of the DQDB scheme, referred to as the 
distributed multi-granularity and multi-window 
reservation (DMGWR) scheme. By “multi- 
granularity”, DMGWR permits each node to reserve 
different amounts of bandwidth (slots) at a time. By 
“multi-window”, DMGWR allows each node to have 
multiple outstanding reservations within the window 
size. From numerical results that pit the DMGWR 
network against two other existing networks 
(WDMA-based [11] and HORNET), we show that the 
OPACS network outperforms both networks with 
respect to throughput, access delay, and fairness 
under various traffic patterns. Experimental results 
demonstrate that all optical headers are removed and 
combined with the data in a fully synchronous manner, 
justifying the viability of the system. 
z Sub-Project 2: The Resource Control Strategy for 
QoS Guaranteed Optical Metro Mesh/Ring 
Networks 
In this sub-project, we consider the design and 
analyses of the OBS resource reservation algorithm in 
the QoS-guaranteed metro/ring optical networks, of 
the uni-cast and multicast traffic grooming in the 
metro optical ring network which connects the 
backbone by an OBS node, and of the DBA algorithm 
in EPON or GPON. In recent years, since the 
bandwidth of the metro optical network is rapidly 
increasing according to the Dense WDM (DWDM) 
swift development, the metro optical network with 
DWDM equipment would come true. The optical 
burst switchings (OBS) plays an important role in the 
optical network switching technology. The OBS 
provide improvements over wavelength routing in 
terms of bandwidth efficiency comparing with OCS 
and transmits the burst without the memory contrast. 
However, how to provide the QoS in the OBS 
network still has no proper solution. In the meanwhile, 
synchronous optical network (SONET) ring networks 
have been widely deployed for the optical network 
infrastructure. The progresses of optical networks 
evolve with time; meanwhile, the carried traffic 
streams surge. The transmission capacity of an optical 
network largely increases because of the development 
and application of WDM technologies. Nevertheless 
the required bandwidth of a traffic stream is also 
much smaller than the bandwidth capacity of a 
wavelength. However, if we additionally consider the 
multicast traffic which is the result of the video online, 
then the traffic grooming technology would become 
more complexity. In the following, we focus on three 
parts. 
A: Burst Priority Scheduling with FDL Reassignment 
(BPS-FR) 
In OBS networks, the ingress node assembles a 
number of IP packets, which go to the same egress 
node, into a data burst (DB). For each DB, there is a 
control burst (CB) associated with it. A signaling 
protocol, called just-enough-time (JET), was 
proposed [29], where the CB is first transmitted to the 
next node to reserve the bandwidth and then the DB is 
sent after an offset time. The duration of the offset 
time is dependent on the number of intermediate OBS 
nodes in the routing path, and the routing path is a 
shortest path which is determined by the ingress node. 
A prioritized signaling protocol, called prioritized 
JET (PJET) [30], was proposed to decrease the 
dropping probability of high-priority bursts. The 
PJET introduces a longer offset time for the 
high-priority burst to make the reservation earlier than 
the low-priority one. There are several burst 
scheduling schemes proposed and applied with PJET, 
which are the Horizon [31], the latest available unused 
channel with void filling (LAUC-VF) [32], and the 
efficient burst scheduling algorithms using geometric 
techniques [33]. The Horizon chooses a wavelength 
whose latest available time is the most close to the 
arrival time of the new burst. The LAUC-VF first 
chooses, among all the proper voids between two 
scheduled bursts, the one whose latest available time 
is the most close to the arrival time of the new burst 
and whose length is larger than the new burst length. 
If there is no available void, then the LAUC-VF 
works the same as the Horizon. The scheduling 
algorithms in [33] are similar to the Horizon and 
LAUC-VF except they use an efficient data structure 
to reduce the computing complexity. Another new 
prioritized signaling protocol, called preemptive 
prioritized JET (PPJET), was proposed in [34]. It 
serves different traffic classes on the basis of a strict 
priority order. A new scheduling scheme using PPJET, 
 8
Pesavento proposed an IPACT upstream multiple 
access mechanism for EPON [49]. This work 
dynamically assigned bandwidth to all ONUs by 
polling ONUs’ demands, and was selected as IEEE 
802.3ah standard [50]. However, quality of service 
(QoS) requirements, such as voice/video packet delay 
and packet dropping probability, were not considered. 
Several polling-based upstream scheduling 
algorithms were proposed to deal with the QoS 
problem in [51-54]. Cheng, Chen, and Xie proposed a 
DBA-high priority (DBA-HP) scheme, which focused 
on the high priority traffic [51]. The DBA-HP 
minimized the packet delay time and delay variation 
of high priority packets, but sacrificed the packet 
delay, packet dropping probability, and throughput of 
low priority packets. An intra-ONU priority 
scheduling scheme [52] and a two layer bandwidth 
allocation (TLBA) scheme [53] were proposed to 
resolve the unfairness for the low priority packets by 
designing a maximum cycle time to each traffic class. 
But it produced increment of delay time of high 
priority traffic and decrement of system throughput, 
due to that the available bandwidth cannot meet all 
demands resulted by the burst or the heavy traffic 
load. A traffic-class burst-polling based delta dynamic 
bandwidth allocation (TCBP-DDBA) scheme was 
studied in [54]. The scheme not only reallocated extra 
bandwidth to the heavily loaded ONUs to improve 
under utilization problems but also provided QoS 
guarantee to delay sensitive services. However, it did 
not individually allocate bandwidth to each class and 
resulted in the longest delay to non-delay sensitive 
services if the traffic load was heavy and the ONU did 
not arrange the transmission well. 
Moreover, Wu, Ding, and Chung proposed a 
prediction-based longest queue first (PLQF) 
scheduling algorithm [55], which is based on the 
information of user queue length and the incoming 
traffic. The system resource is allocated to the user 
who has the largest probability to overflow in the near 
future to achieve a minimal cell loss rate. Luo and 
Ansari proposed a dynamic bandwidth allocation with 
multiple services (DBAM) scheme in [56] and a 
limited sharing with traffic prediction (LSTP) scheme 
in [57]. The DBAM scheme adopted a limited 
bandwidth allocation (LBA) and employed a linear 
estimation credit for class-based traffic prediction to 
estimate queue’s traffic arriving during cycle time. 
The ONUs apply priority queueing to buffer the three 
types of service frames, and a maximum time slot 
length of a specific class of traffic in each ONU is 
pre-assigned to a service level agreement (SLA) 
between the end user and the service provider. The 
DBAM can reduce the packet delay and queue length. 
The LSTP scheme used the same upper bounded 
maximum time slot length in bytes of ONUs as the 
DBAM scheme, but with a linear predictor and a 
least-mean square (LMS) adaptive update algorithm 
in ONUs to predict the data traffic arrived during the 
cycle time. An early-DBA mechanism with 
prediction-based fair excessive bandwidth 
reallocation (PFEBR) scheme was introduced in [58], 
where the modified linear estimation credit from 
DBAM [56] was used to ensure fairness of all ONUs. 
Yin, Luo, Ansari, and Wang proposed a nonlinear 
prediction-based dynamic bandwidth allocation 
(NLPDBA) scheme [59] to improve the upstream 
transmission efficiency and prediction accuracy. The 
NLPDBA scheme used the same LMS update 
algorithm as the LSTP scheme [57] and controlled the 
estimated result for stability. However, when the 
predictor underestimates or overestimates the traffic, 
it may drop packets or waste bandwidth and cannot 
show how soon it will converge. Thus the NLPDBA 
scheme is hard to decide the precise granted 
bandwidth for ONUs in the next cycle. 
In this part, we proposed a PRNN/ERLS-based 
predictive QoS-promoted dynamic bandwidth 
allocation (PQ-DBA) scheme for upstream 
transmission in EPON. The PQ-DBA not only 
commits the QoS requirements for real-time services 
but also promotes the fairness for non-real-time 
packets, especially when the traffic intensity is larger 
than 0.8. The PQ-DBA originally divides voice, video, 
and data types of service traffic into six priorities. The 
proposed PQ-DBA has different treatments to 
packet’s transmission. Priority of real-time video 
packets is raised if the packets will violate the QoS 
requirements at the beginning of the next cycle. 
Similarly, priority of non-real-time data packets is 
promoted if the packets suffer a long delay and will 
get into a starvation situation.  
scheduling algorithm needs to assure that the high-priority 
packets always experience higher throughput and lower 
buffering delay than low-priority packets. In general, the 
packet scheduling problem can be modeled as an 
optimization problem. Due to the stringent decision delay, 
the design of an efficient real-time packet scheduling to 
solve the optimization problem becomes crucial for the 
switching system. 
Hopfield neural network (HNN) [70], taking advantage 
of parallel-computation nature and ease of VLSI 
implementation, has been widely employed in solving 
optimization problems [70]. The main goal of this paper is 
present a novel parallel neural-network-based approach, 
called augmented Hopfield neural network (AHNN), to 
QoS packet scheduling (QOSPS) for the proposed optical 
packet switching system. Given a batch of newly arriving 
packets, QOSPS aims at maximizing system throughput, 
minimizing buffering delay, and supporting packet’s 
priority differentiations subject to satisfying the 
non-blocking (switch blocking and FDL buffer blocking) 
constraints. To this end, the AHNN enhances nominal 
Hopfield neural networks by introducing the priority to 
every neuron and relaxing the limitation of symmetrical 
neuron weights. We prove that the AHNN/QOSPS will 
converge to the optimal solution if the crucial system 
parameters follow certain necessary conditions. As will be 
shown from the simulation results, QOSPS achieves near 
100% throughput and provides prioritized QoS 
differentiations while the computation time is less than one 
optical time slot. In addition, compares with five other 
algorithms, the QOSPS outperforms these algorithms on 
both system throughput and computational complexity. 
z Sub-project 4: The Optimal System Design that 
Combines Channel Estimation, Equalization and 
Error Protection for High-mobility 
High-transmission-rate Access Networks 
Since most of the existing blind-detectable 
noncoherent codes are designed with the help of 
computer search, they exhibit no apparent structure 
for efficient decoding. The operation-intensive 
exhaustive search therefore becomes the only 
decoding option, of which the dramatically increasing 
decoding complexity prevents its practical use for 
codes of long codeword length or high code rate. 
In the first year, we focused on construction rule 
of codes combined channel estimation and error 
correction based on the newly found code property 
that maximizes the system signal-to-noise ratio, and 
then confirmed by simulations that our rule-based 
code has almost the same performance with the 
optimal computer-searched code in [71] over the 
frequency selective block fading channels. We 
established the systematic rule to construct codes 
based on the optimal signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) 
framework that requires every codeword to satisfy a 
“self-orthogonal” property to combat the multipath 
fading channel effect. Enforced by this structure, we 
then derived a recursive maximum-likelihood metric 
for the tree-based priority-first search decoding 
algorithm, thereby avoiding the use of the 
time-consuming exhaustive decoder that was 
previously used in [71-73] to decode the structureless 
computer-optimized codes.  
There is one drawback in our previous work, also 
in [72] and [71], which is that the codeword length  
has to be less than the channel coherent time period. 
In the second year, we first extended the idea 
developed last year to the fast fading channels by 
properly re-modeling the fast fading channels. The 
new expression convinced as anticipated that slowly 
fading channels are a special case of fast fading 
channels. Secondly, we derived the candidate 
codeword counting function  for fast fading 
channels, which is required in our encoding algorithm. 
Then, the constructed codes that maximize the system 
SNR were resulted. With the self-orthogonality 
property, the maximum-likelihood decoding metrics 
for use of the priority-first search decoding algorithm 
were derived. Finally, simulations on the constructed 
codes and the maximum-likelihood decoders were 
performed and remarked. 
In first two year, we discovered the systematic 
rule to design codes based on the optimal 
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) framework that regardless 
of the fading statistics. In the first year, the 
framework requires every codeword to satisfy a 
“self-orthogonal” property (it means that codeword 
have to be orthogonal to the delayed version of itself). 
Figure 6. Equivalent system model. 
 10
WiMAX/ WiFi networks.” Figures 7 and 8 illustrate 
our two kinds of network architecture respectively. 
A. A Fast Handover Based Mobility Scheme over 
802.16j Moving RS Mode 
We propose a mobility scheme based on IEEE 
802.16j mobile vehicle usage model that is 
compatible with FMIPv6. The typical scenario is a 
vehicular network, provides MRS and MS travel 
together on a mobile vehicle, such as a bus or a train, 
shows in Figure 7. 
A MRS is mounted on a vehicle and moving with 
MSs attached to it. The MSs may be mobile devices 
of the passengers on this vehicle. When the MRS 
moves from serving BS to target BS belonging to a 
different subnet, it involved in a network layer 
handover. In this case, the MRS provides a fixed 
access link to MSs so there is no MAC layer handover 
occurs on this link. MSs only need to perform 
network layer handover procedures from PAR to 
NAR using FMIPv6. The MRS simply performs 
MAC layer handover instead of both MAC and 
network layer handover in moving BS mode. 
B. A Cross-Layering Media-Independent Handover 
Mechanism in Heterogeneous WiMAX/WiFi Networks  
The handover procedure of our proposed scheme 
is represented in Figure 9. The different parts with the 
literature approach are using red color. There are 
three mechanisms assist with reducing the SDT in our 
propose scheme, including pre-DAD procedure, 
parallel handover, and buffer mechanism. In pre-DAD 
procedure, the L3 handover latency is longer than the 
L2 handover due to the DAD execution time must 
take at least one second. However, we discover the 
elapsed time from the receiving 
MIH_Link_Detected.IND event by MS to the trigger 
by MIH_Link_Going_Down.IND is dependent on the 
MN’s velocity and overlap distance between the 
serving PoA and the target PoA. In general, this time 
is longer than the time between the MN receives 
MIH_Link_Going_Down.IND event and the service 
disrupted. For this reason, we want to move DAD 
process before receiving 
MIH_Link_Going_Down.IND event and provide a 
mechanism called pre-DAD procedure. When the MN 
detected a new link, it can query the MIIS about the 
new PoA information and forward the interface 
hardware address to the S-AR by Pre-DAD.IND 
messages. Upon receiving the message from the MN, 
the S-AR replies a Pre-DAD.ACK message to the MN 
and configures some new IPv6 address for the MN 
with all S-AR neighbor network prefix. Address 
configuration can be done stateless or stateful in IPv6 
networks. In this mechanism, the S-AR can assist the 
MN to generate some new IPv6 address and address 
configuration is stateful. The 128 bits IPv6 address is 
configured by a 64-bit suffix and combined with new 
network prefix. Note that the 64 bits suffix can be 
generated randomly or based on the interface 
hardware address. The S-AR configures number of 
NCoAs depend on number of ARs neighbor with the 
S-AR. The number of ARs neighbor with the S-AR is 
in accordance with network topology. 
Figure 9. Cross-Layering Media-Independent 
Handover Mechanism. 
In parallel handover, because the MN may have 
two or more interface to support service connection in 
heterogeneous networks, the L2 handover procedure 
can happen in parallel with the L3 handover process. 
When MIH user knows target PoA, it can instruct 
target interface of the MN to perform the L2 handover 
procedure and send a Query_NCOA.REQ message to 
the S-AR by using interface of the MN in order to do 
the partial L3 handover process. The 
Query_NCoA.REQ message including target PoA 
information informs the S-AR about the MN will 
handover under which PoA and applies for NCoA of 
the MN. The L2 handover procedure can 
 12
 14
novel systematic code construction scheme for joint 
channel estimation and error correction for channels 
with independently varying fading subblocks. The 
results will appear in IEEE Transactions on 
Information Theory and in the 20th Personal, Indoor 
and Mobile Radio Communications Symposium. 
Sub-project 5 proposes two kinds of handover 
schemes: “A Fast Handover Based Mobility Scheme 
over 802.16j Moving RS Mode” and “A Cross- 
Layering Media-Independent Handover Mechanism 
in Heterogeneous WiMAX/WiFi Networks” 
respectively. These two schemes will submit to 
conference or journal soon. 
VI. References 
[1] S. Yao, S. Yoo, B. Mukherjee, and S. Dixit, 
“All-Optical Packet Switching for Metropolitan Area 
Networks: Opportunities and Challenges,” IEEE 
Commun. Mag., vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 142-148, Mar. 
2001. 
[2] M. Yuang, S. Lee, P. Tien, Y. Lin, J. Shih, F. Tsai, and 
A. Chen, “Optical Coarse Packet-Switched 
IP-over-WDM Network (OPSINET): Technologies 
and Experiments,” IEEE J. Select. Areas in Commun., 
vol. 24, no. 8, pp. 117-127, Aug. 2006. 
[3] M. Herzog, M. Maier, and M. Reisslein, 
“Metropolitan Area Packet-Switched WDM 
Networks: A Survey on Ring Systems,” IEEE 
Commun. Surveys & Tutor., vol. 6, no. 2, 2004, pp. 
2-20. 
[4] I. White, M. Rogge, K. Shrikhande, and L. Kazovsky, 
“A Summary of the HORNET Project: A 
Next-Generation Metropolitan Area Network,” IEEE 
J. Select. Areas in Commun., vol. 21, no. 9, Nov. 
2003, pp. 1478-1494. 
[5] L. Dittmann, C. Develder, D. Chiaroni, F. Neri, F. 
Callegati, et al., “The European IST Project DAVID: 
A Viable Approach Toward Optical Packet 
Switching,” IEEE J. Select. Areas in Commun., vol. 
21, no. 7, pp. 1026-1040, Sept. 2003. 
[6] C. Develder, A. Stavdas, A. Bianco, D. Careglio, H. 
Lnsethagen, et al., “Benchmarking and Viability 
Assessment of Optical Packet Switching for Metro 
Networks,” IEEE J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 22, no. 11, 
pp. 2435–2451, Nov. 2004. 
[7] A. Carena, V. Feo, J. Finochietto, R. Gaudino, F. Neri, 
C. Piglione, and P. Poggiolini, “RingO: An 
Experimental WDM Optical Packet Network for 
Metro Applications,” IEEE J. Select. Areas in 
Commun., vol. 22, no. 8, Oct. 2004, pp. 1561-1571. 
[8] M. Marsan, A. Bianco, E. Leonardi, A. Morabito, and 
F. Neri, “All-Optical WDM Multi-Rings with 
Differentiated QoS,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 37, 
no. 2, pp. 58-66, Feb. 1999. 
[9] C. Jeiger and J. Elmirghani, “Photonic Packet WDM 
Ring Networks Architecture and Performance,” IEEE 
Commun. Mag., vol. 40, no. 11, pp. 110-115, Nov. 
2002. 
[10] C. Linardakis, H. Leligou, A. Stavdas, and J. 
Angelopoulos, “Using Explicit Reservations to 
Arbitrate Access to a Metropolitan System of Slotted 
Interconnected Rings Combining TDMA and 
WDMA,” IEEE J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 23, no. 4, 
April 2005, pp. 1576–1585. 
[11] J. Lu and L. Kleinrock, “A WDMA Protocol for 
Multichannel DQDB Networks,” Proc. of IEEE 
GLOBECOM, vol. 1, Nov. 1993, pp. 149-153. 
[12] K. Bengi and H. As, “Efficient QoS Support in a 
Slotted Multihop WDM Metro Ring Network,” IEEE 
J. Select. Areas in Commun., vol. 20, no. 1, Jan. 2002, 
pp. 216-227. 
[13] D. Wonglumsom, I. White, K. Shrikhande, M. Rogge, 
S. Gemelos, F. An, Y. Fukashiro, M. Avenarius, and L. 
Kazovsky, “Experimental Demonstratoion of an 
Access Point for HORNET-A Packet-Over-WDM 
Multiple-Access MAN,” IEEE J. Lightw. Technol., 
vol. 18, no. 12, Dec. 2000, pp. 1709-1717. 
[14] M. Yuang, Y. Wang, and Y. Lin, “A Novel Medium 
Access Control and Processing System for a 
Packet-Switched WDM Metro Ring Network,” 
IEEE/OSA OFC, 2008. 
[15] J. Simsarian, A. Bhardwaj, J. Gripp, K. Sherman, Y. 
Su, C. Webb, L. Zhang, and M. Zirngibl, “Fast 
Switching Characteristics of a Widely Tunable Laser 
Transmitter,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett., vol. 15, no. 
8, pp. 1038-1040, Aug. 2003. 
[16] P. Tang, O. Eknoyan, and H. Taylor, “Rapidly 
Tunable Optical Add-Drop Multiplexer (OADM) 
using a Static-Strain-Induced Grating in LiNbO3,” 
IEEE J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 236-245, 
Jan. 2003. 
[17] Distributed Queue Dual Bus (DQDB) Subnetwork of 
a Metropolitan Area Network (MAN), IEEE Standard 
802.6, Dec. 1990. 
[18] G. Chang, J. Yu, A. Chowdhury, and Y. Yeo, “Optical 
Carrier  Suppression and Separation 
Label-Switching Techniques,” IEEE J. Lightw. 
Technol., vol. 23, no. 10, Oct. 2005, pp. 3372-3387. 
[19] G. Rossi, O. Jerphagnon, B. Olsson, and D. 
Blumenthal, “Optical SCM Data Extraction Using a 
 16
[45] C. Lu, X. Nie, and L. Li, “Efficient Dynamic 
Multicast Traffic Grooming Algorithm on WDM,” 
Proc. of SPIE, vol. 6022, no.30, 2003, pp.1-9. 
[46] D. Buchfuhrer, T. Carnes and B. Tagiku, “Traffic 
Grooming for Single-Source Multicast 
Communication in WDM Rings,” IEEE ICC, vol.3, 
May 2005, pp. 1613-1619. 
[47] H. V. Madhyastha, N. srinvas, G. V. Chowdhary and 
C. Siva ram Murthy, “Grooming of Multicast 
Sessions in WDM Ring Networks,” Proc. Optical 
Netw. and Commun., Oct. 2003, pp.1-12. 
[48] M. P. MaGarry, M. Maier, and M. Reisslein, 
“Ethernet PONs: A survey of dynamic bandwidth 
allocation (DBA) algorithms,” IEEE Optical 
Commun., vol. 42, 2004, pp. S8- 15. 
[49] G. Kramer, B. Mukherjee, and G. Pesavento, “IPACT: 
A dynamic protocol for an Ethernet PON (EPON) ,” 
IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 40, 2002, pp. 74-80. 
[50] IEEE Standard 802.3ah-2004. 
[51] H. Cheng, M. Chen, and S. Xie, “A dynamic 
bandwidth allocation scheme supporting different 
priority services in EPON,” Proc. International 
Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE), 2005, pp. 
1123-1127. 
[52] C. M. Assi, Y. Ye, S. Dixit, and M. A. Ali, “Dynamic 
bandwidth allocation for quality-of-service over 
Ethernet PONs,” IEEE J. Select. Areas in Comm., vol. 
21, 2003, pp. 1467-1477. 
[53] J. Xie, S. Jiang, and Y. Jiang, “A dynamic bandwidth 
allocation scheme for differentiated services in 
EPONs,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 42, 2004, pp. 
S32-S39. 
[54] Y. Yang, J. Nho, N. P. Mahalik, K. Kim, and B. Ahn, 
“QoS provisioning in the EPON systems with 
traffic-class burst-polling based delta DBA,” IEICE 
Trans. on Commun., vol. 89, 2006, pp. 419-426. 
[55] S. Wu, Q. Ding, and K. C. Chung, “Improving the 
network performance using prediction based longest 
queue first (PLQF) scheduling algorithm,” ATM 
(ICATM 2001) and 4th IEEE Intern. Conf. on High 
Speed Intelligent Internet Symposium, 2001, pp. 
344-348. 
[56] Y. Luo and N. Ansari, “Bandwidth allocation for 
multiservice access on EPONs,” IEEE Commun. 
Mag., vol. 43, 2005, pp. S16-S21. 
[57] Y. Luo and N. Ansari, “Limited sharing with traffic 
prediction for dynamic bandwidth allocation and QoS 
provisioning over Ethernet passive optical networks,” 
OSA J. Optic. Netw., vol. 4, 2005, pp. 561-572. 
[58] I. S. Hwang, Z. D. Shyu, L. Y. Ke, and C. C. Chang, 
“A novel early DBA mechanism with 
prediction-based fair excessive bandwidth 
reallocation scheme in EPON,” IEEE Proc. of the 
Sixth Intern. Conf. on Netw., 2004, pp. 75-80. 
[59] S. Yin, Y. Luo, N. Ansari, and T. Wang, “Non-linear 
predictor-based dynamic bandwidth allocation over 
TDM-PONs: stability analysis and controller design,” 
IEEE ICC, 2008, pp. 5186-5190. 
[60] S. Dixit, IP OVER WDM Building the Next 
Generation Optical Internet, Wiley, USA, 2004. 
[61] T. Tanemura, M. Takenaka, A. A. Amin, K. Takeda, T. 
Shioda, M. Sugiyama, and Y. Nakano, “InP–InGaAsP 
Integrated 1x5 Optical Switch Using Arrayed Phase 
Shifters,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett., vol. 20, no. 12, 
June 2008, pp. 1063-1065. 
[62] J. J . Hopfield and D. W. Tank, “Neural Computation 
of Decisions in Optimization Problems,” Biol. Cyber., 
vol. 52, pp. 141-152, 1985. 
[63] T. X. Brown, “Neural Networks for Switching,” IEEE 
Commun. Mag., vol. 27, pp. 72-81, Nov. 1989. 
[64] M. Yuang, P. Tien, and S. Lin, “Pseudo-Banyan 
Optical WDM Packet Switching System With 
Near-Optimal Packet Scheduling,” IEEE/OSA J. 
Optic. Commun. Netw., Aug. 2008. 
[65] K. Obermann, S. Kindt, D. Breuer, and K. Petermann, 
“Performance Analysis of Wavelength Converters 
Based on Cross-Gain Modulation in 
Semiconductor-Optical Amplifiers,” J. Lightw. 
Technol., vol. 16, no. 1, Jan. 1998, pp. 78-85. 
[66] B. Sarker, T. Yoshino, and S. Majumder, “All-Optical 
Wavelength Conversion Based on Cross-Phase 
Modulation (XPM) in a Single-Mode Fiber and a 
Mach-Zehnder Interferometer,” IEEE Photon. 
Technol. Lett., vol. 14, no. 3, March 2002, pp. 
340-342. 
[67] G. Papadimitriou, C. Papazoglou, and A. Pomportsis, 
“Optical Switching: Switch Fabrics, Techniques, and 
Architectures,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 21, no. 2, Feb. 
2003, pp. 384-405. 
[68] S. Yao, S. Yoo, and B. Mukherjee, “All-Optical 
Packet Switching for Metropolitan Area Networks: 
Opportunities and Challenges,” IEEE Comm. Mag., 
vol. 39, no. 3, Mar. 2001, pp. 142-148. 
[69] V. Eramo, M. Listanti, and M. Spaziani, “Resources 
Sharing in Optical Packet Switches with 
Limited-Range Wavelength Converters,” J. Lightw. 
Technol., vol. 23, no. 2, Feb. 2005, pp. 671-687. 
[70] Y. Lin, M. Yuang, S. Lee, and W. Way, “Using 
Superimposed ASK Label in a 10-Gb/s Multihop 
All-Optical Label Swapping System,” J. Lightw. 
Technol., vol. 22, no. 2, Feb. 2004, pp. 351-361. 
[71] M. Skoglund, J. Giese, and S. Parkvall, “Code design 
