中文摘要
本計畫將整合製造工程或是控制工程對生產線的分析與應用的成果，例如生產線的
分流與匯集的分析與系統的瓶頸辨識等技術，跨越至非生產線的具有流程分析的研究議題
的領域。例如：醫療診所的流程布局與資源的配置，或是參觀導覽系統的布局與評估等研
究。為要減少人力資源的浪費，所有系統的相關時間與效能的比較，將結合 RFID 晶片技
術，詳實透過 RFID Tag 與 Reader 之間來紀錄資料，後端再經由資料庫系統作所有相關參
數的取得，達到實際系統的應用。因此，此計畫將設計一套布局與流程的分析研究方法，
將所獲得系統架構建立模式，經由驗證模擬結果與實際系統的結果作比較，找出適當的動
線布局與醫療人員的配置數目，達到預定系統的目標。更希望將結果套用生產線中的瓶頸
分析公式，能提供醫療診所實際的回饋幫助，讓整體的系統效能增加。計畫成果將提供產
業界定性與定量的分析步驟，且透過軟體對系統的模擬，來驗證所有參數的取得，取得
North Lexington Health Clinic 的相關資料，建立改善回饋機制，達到更高的系統服務
品質。
關鍵字：流程布局、醫療診所、分布、參數變異性
Abstract
This research presents the applications of manufacturing system to the layout of flow
control analysis in non-production system. By applying the results of split and merge of
production lines and bottleneck identification algorithms, the issues will be the flow control and
staffing ratio of the clinic and the museum tutoring. To reduce the needs of employees to record
the time and the data, RFID is used to combine with the data server to get all corresponding
information to fulfill the system design. Therefore, the project will build a system model to
simulate the results and compare them with those of the real system. To get the optimal layout
and staffing level, the system performance is evaluated. The results will provide a guideline for
the clinic manager or the museum tutoring manager. The project is cooperated with Dr. Jingshan
Li in the Department of Electrical Engineering of the University of Kentucky. All the data are
from the North Lexington Health Clinic. The results will feedback to the clinic and the
corresponding system designers to ensure the quality of the service.
Keywords: Layout of the Flow Process, Health care clinic, Distributions,
Coefficients of Variation
Figure 1: Patient flow of the health clinic
Let Nd and Nn denote the number of doctors and nurses, respectively. Introduce the
following notation for performance measure:
TP = system throughput (patients/hour);
Twr = average waiting time in waiting room (min);
Tph = average waiting time in pharmacy (min);
Txr = average waiting time in radiology (min);
qwr = waiting room average occupancy;
qxr = radiology average queue length;
qph = pharmacy average queue length:
The simulation results for different staffing levels are shown in Table 1. By reviewing the
results from the simulation, we conclude that
 Except Case 1 (one doctor, one nurse), all other combinations could achieve the desired
throughput, i.e., are capable of serving the needs to this clinic.
 Cases 2–4 result in close to 20 minutes waiting time. It is shown that increasing the number
of nurses from two to four, the reduction in waiting time is not dramatic, thus, the number of
doctor (only one) is becoming the bottleneck in these cases.
 Case 5 increases the number of doctors to two. Even with only two nurses, the waiting time
is dropping to less than 5 minutes.
 More nurses (Cases 6 and 7) will result in almost no waiting at all.
 Similar results are observed for Case 8 where both the numbers of doctors and nurses are
selected as three.
2.2.2 Increased patient arrivals
For the future, as the clinic matures and more patients come, determining the desired staffing
levels that more patients per day come to the clinic is desired. Table 2 presents the results in the
scenario of doubled patient visits per day.
As the number of patients doubled while the amount of time to complete the work remains
constant, it is intuitive that more staffing will be required. According to the simulation results in
Table 2, it is shown that the best configuration of doctors and nurses to meet system throughput,
reasonable queuing times, and waiting room occupancies, is a staffing level of four nurses and
two doctors. Again, the utilization of pharmacist (and radiologist) is still low, and only one would
be required.
Table 2: Simulation results for doubled patient visits per day
Nn Nd TP Twr qwr Tph qph
2 1 6.2 20.26 1.47 6.52 0.40
3 1 6.2 9.04 0.65 6.69 0.40
2 2 6.2 3.08 0.22 7.21 0.44
3 Effects of Service Time Distributions
In practice, it is unlikely the service times will follow exactly a selected distribution. Moreover, it
is typically impossible to discover the type of distributions of them. Therefore, a sensitivity study
to investigate the dependence of the results on the type of the distribution is important. If it is the
case that the results are independent of the distribution type, but only dependent on the moments,
then it makes the work much easier since we can use practically any type of distribution with the
same moments to obtain the required results. To investigate this issue, we consider four
distributions, Weibull, Erlang, normal and log-normal, in this study (note that negative value will
be reset as zero in normal distribution case). Among all the distributions, same mean and
coefficient of variations (CV) are assumed. Moreover, two additional cases with mixed
distributions are generated, referred to as Mix 1 and Mix 2, where for each service time
(reception, nurse, doctor, radiology, casting, pharmacy), a distribution is randomly selected
equiprobably from the set {normal, log-normal, Weibull, Erlang}. First, we consider the case that
there is only one doctor serving in the clinic. The simulation results are illustrated in Figure 2(a).
It is clear from these results that as long as the mean and coefficient of variation are held constant,
the results are practically independent of distribution type. Then, to evaluate the case with
additional resources, the scenarios of doubled patient visits are analyzed (Figure 2(b)). The
results obtained follow the same trends found with one doctor case.
To further examine the distribution dependency, additional data sets with randomly generated
mean and CV for service times are used to analyze the system (see [9]). Again it validates the
results we obtained before, i.e., the performance is practically independent of distribution types.
Therefore, we propose the following hypothesis:
(a) One doctor two nurses (b) One doctor three nurses
(c) Two doctors two nurses (d) Two doctors three nurses
Figure 3: Effects of service time variability







 .15.0)),5.0()((
5.0
5.0
)5.0(
5.0),5.0(
:)(
maxmax
max
CVCVTCVT
CV
CV
T
CVT
CVT
wrwrwr
wr
upper
wr (1)
Such bounds are illustrated as dash lines in Figure 3. Therefore, with knowing only two points,
Twr(CVmax) and Twr(0:5), for any CV, without running additional simulations, the average
patient waiting time can be approximated and will satisfy:
).()( CVTCVT upperwrwr  (2)
Additional results are obtained for more examples of randomly generated data sets (see [9]).
These results again indicate that patient waiting time increases with more variability and
expressions (1) and (2) can be used as empirical formulas for patient waiting time evaluation.
5 Conclusions
In this project, we introduce a simulation study to design and analyze a health care clinic for
homeless patients in Lexington, Kentucky. Using this model, we simulate the patient flow of the
clinic and evaluate the staff utilizations, average waiting times, and patient throughput to
determine an appropriate staffing level. In addition, we investigate the sensitivity with respect to
service time distributions, and it is shown that the system performance is practically only
