1 
 
一、 前言 
 
管線單位在道路上的施工，一直是道路管理單位不得不答應，卻又深感困擾的一問題。
嚴重者，如道路本身的擴建，或是重鋪路面，若同時有管線單位欲在同地施工維修管
線設施，則引發的管線遷移問題常使得整體工期嚴重落後，遲遲無法驗收。隨著越來
越多人居住在都市地區，道路與管線工程隨之增加，此二工程因隸屬於不同業主單位，
承包商所需技巧不同，雖在同地點施工，彼此的交互作用不可謂不大。再者，都市道
路的車流原本就較大，目前政府大力推動的戶戶有光纖計畫顯示著另一大量通訊管線
開挖的需求，報告顯示在 2004 年到 2007 年將建立超過 6000 公里的光纖電纜(Lin 
2005)，都市道路可以預期鋪面破壞將加重。不僅國內有此現象，從文獻顯示，如美國
華盛頓特區，在 1996 年有 5000 次的管線開挖申請，在 2000 年便升到 6000 次(Wilde et 
al. 2003)；在美國紐約市，2000 年有 25 萬次的開挖申請，每年持續以 8%的速度增長
(Khogali and Mohamed 1999)；在英國倫敦市，管線在道路的開挖已被確認為第二大
影響交通的因素，估計耽誤的時間價值 130 億英鎊，也造成許多交通安全上的問題
(Jesen et al. 2005)。在美國交通學者如 Wilde 等人(2003)，指出管線的開挖已成為
美國各州交通部門一嚴重的問題，甚至已造成預算的排擠。是故，如何有效管理管線
單位在道路上的施工行為，已逐漸成為一重要的課題。 
 
二、 研究目的 
 
從道路管理單位的角度，因管線單位在道路開挖前，均必須向道路管理單位申請開挖
許可，因此，本研究便是藉由此一管理上的流程，在道路管理單位方收集管線施工申
請書，透過資訊化的方式，有系統地比較新的申請是否與任何施工規範有所衝突，如
在交通量大的道路上施工，在新鋪的道路上施工，在同地點的不久前才有管線單位施
工，或是違反任何既存管線的安全距離限制等。 
 
在作法上，本研究利用移動式物件資料庫(Moving Objects Database, MOD)，或稱為
時空物件式資料庫(Spatiotemporal Objects Database, SOD)的技術，在現有關聯式
資料庫為基礎之空間資料庫上，建構出時間軸度，設計適當的物件架構塑模管線在道
路施工申請的模型，並透過時間資料庫的結構化查詢語言 T-SQL，執行時空資料的查
詢，達到上述需求。並開發時空管線物件資料庫(Spatiotemporal Utility Objects 
Database, STUOD)範例系統，示範如何透過資訊化的作法實現管理上的理想運作。 
 
三、 文獻探討 
 
在過去關於減緩管線施工對道路鋪面影響的文獻部分，有兩類方法，第一類屬於技術
面方法，第二類屬於政策管理面方法(Wilde et al. 2003)(GAO 1999)。技術面的方法
如 trenchless，並非本研究探討的重點；政策管理面的方法則主要強調與管線單位的
溝通協調機制，希望藉由合併不同管線單位在同地點但時間鄰近的施工項目，減少對
道路的開挖與鋪面的破壞。 
3 
 
 
一事件的交易時間軸指實際輸入資料庫的時間點，如圖 1的事件 1，專案經理是在 2008
年十一月一日輸入的，但專案經理在 2009 年的一月五日時改變初衷，此事件的有效時
間改變了，以資料庫的角度而言，若事件尚未發生，則可直接修改有效時間軸的資料，
若事件已發生，則須修改所有因已發生而觸發的其他事件資料，確保資料的一致性與
完整性。 
 
(2) GIS 與空間資料庫 
 
本計畫採用 Autodesk Map 3D 作為前端顯示資料與輸出入資料的介面，此軟體可在 CAD
的環境下實現 GIS 的功能與讀寫 GIS *.shp 檔案的能力，後端採用 PostgreSQL 資料庫
與 PostGIS 元件，使得關聯式資料庫可儲存空間資料。具有空間資料處理能力後的
PostgreSQL，因仍能像往常的關聯式資料庫一樣處理複雜的 SQL 指令，故本研究團隊
再套用時間資料庫理論中各項關聯式資料庫為基礎的作法，便可在 PostgreSQL 實現具
有空間能力與時間能力的時空資料庫。 
 
(3) 道路管線物件模型 
 
欲管理管線單位的申請資料，便必須對道路與相關設施與流程作塑模。如圖 2 所示，
本研究所建議的物件模型可分為三大類，第一類與道路本身有關，第二類與管線設施
有關，第三類與申請資料有關，簡述如下： 
 
RdNetwork 
本物件表示道路網路，一般來說，它包含數個道路物件。例如一城市可分成數個區域，
每區域各自有道路網路，故城市的道路管理部門便可分成數個小組，各自管理一道路
網路。 
 
Road 
本物件表示道路，一般來說，一道路物件對應到某道路名下的所有路段。本物件共有
六個屬性，Type 屬性表示道路的類型，如路街巷弄等。Line 屬性為空間資訊，表示一
道路中線所形成的線條集合，方便日後顯示。最後三個屬性均與該道路的車流狀態有
關，如白天的車流、晚上的車流，與假日的車流量等。 
 
RdSegment 
本物件表示一段道路，為真正交通或管線單位在處理道路資訊時的最小處理元素，一
般僅為數公尺長。Lane 屬性表示該段道路有幾車道，Polygon 屬性表示該段道路的多
邊形幾何資訊，ROWPolygon 表示交通單位在該段道路實際擁有的路權範圍。開始日期
表示此段道路何時開始開通服務，結束日期預設為永遠。 
 
MaintenancePlan 
本物件表示道路維修計畫，因道路若重鋪鋪面，一般而言會有一段時間禁止管線單位
5 
 
本物件為抽象類別，在本研究中，會影響道路的物件有管線、管線設施，與遺棄的管
線。此三物件繼承本物件，本物件負責連接道路區段物件，亦即一 UtilPart 物件只能
剛好屬於某個 RdSegment，而一 RdSegment 物件可有零到多個 UtilPart 物件。Polygon
屬性紀錄此管線的幾何範圍，開始日期記錄管線開始運作服務的日期。 
 
UtilFacility 
本物件為管線設施。除了繼承 UtilPart 物件外，本物件最重要的屬性為 Clearance，
代表鄰近管線必須至少離本物件多少公尺，方能符合規範。 
 
UtilLine 
本物件繼承 UtilPart 物件，也具備 Clearance 屬性。除此而外，在與 UtilFacility
物件搭配下，可用來模擬電線杆上不同管線單位的電纜情形。 
 
Abandonment 
本物件表示遺棄的管線或設施，繼承自 UtilPart 物件。 
 
UtilSection 
本物件表示一群 UtilPart 物件。如同道路物件一樣，本物件具有 Line 屬性，表示管
線的中線，以一次顯示整個管線網路時用。 
 
UtilNetwork 
本物件表示管線網路，不同類型管線便會有不同的管線網路，故這邊一個 UtilNetwork
物件，相當於城市的一個基礎設施。本物件用以聚合 UtilSection 物件。 
 
UtilDivision 與 UtilEnterprise 
這兩個物件用以表達管線單位的組織。一管線公司(UtilEnterprise)可能有數個部門
(UtilDivision)，每個部門管理一種管線網路。 
 
Permit 
管線的開挖申請物件。本物件將包含數個 UtilActivity 物件，用以表示管線單位的一
個施工專案。兩個日期屬性分別表示何時提出開挖申請，與何時申請案通過。 
 
UtilActivity 
本物件表示管線單位的施工活動，活動具有開始時間與結束時間。SitePolygon 屬性
表示工地的範圍資訊，WorkingPolygon 表示實際開挖的範圍資訊。值得注意的是，每
個 UtilActivity 物件只能屬於一個 RdSegment 物件，亦即管線的開挖，必須依照原訂
的道路區段來定義開挖範圍。若有某個管線施工區域必須跨越兩個道路路段，則必須
有對應的兩個 UtilActivity 物件，分別表示管線施工區域在每個道路路段的範圍。 
 
(4) 時空查詢演算步驟 
 
7 
 
certain_traffic_flow_valuee 
// if the space needed by Set1 is the road with heavy traffic flows, Set6 stores 
these records 
 
關於上述問題，應傳回的資料集合為(Set3 union Set4 union Set5 union Set6)，代
表這些管線施工申請，違背某個規範。 
 
此外，當確保所有新申請的管線施工均未違背任何規則後，下一步便是嘗試尋找是否
可將這些申請予以合併，道路管理單位鼓勵這些管線單位彼此溝通協調，甚至找一個
懂所有工作的承包商，一次處理所有工作，方最能減少對用路人造成的不便。假設的
輸入變數說明如下，假設 d 為兩管線工程施工範圍的最小距離，亦即因兩管線工程較
靠近，故道路管理單位才想將兩工程合併；另外，假設兩管線工程的原訂施工時程最
小允許的差距值為 n，代表因這兩工程時程上較近，若第一工程完成後，回填鋪面，
過了幾星期後，又執行第二工程，常會讓用路人覺得道路管理單位應有可改進的地方。
本演算過程即是找出這些申請候選者，讓道路管理單位可和各管線單位進行下一步溝
通協調的工作，查詢演算的步驟簡述如下： 
 
Step 1. Let Set1 = select * from UtilActivity where Duration.EndDate >= NOW 
// find the trench data set that the work items have not been finished 
 
Step 2. Let Set2 = select * from Set1 as a, Set1 as b where 
st_dwithin(a.Polygon, b.Polygon, d) and a <> b 
// list any pair of two objects located nearby, which means these two utility 
activities will be performed in the approximate same place.  Note that 
st_dwithin is a OGC-defined function 
 
Step 3. Let Set3 = select * from Set2 where (t_overlap(a.Duration, b.Duration) 
or a.Duration.EndDate + n >= b.Duration.StartDate) and a <> b 
// Set3 finds out whether their durations are overlapped or very close 
 
Step 4. Let Set4 = Set2 – Set3 
// the remaining data items are those activities that can be rescheduled.  Set 
4 is the result set 
 
五、 結果與討論 
 
本研究所建議的管線施工申請物件模型，考量目前與領域專家訪談收集到的需求，包
括兩管線施工申請可能會有同時同地執行的情形、可能會在交通量大的地方執行的情
形、可能會與現有管線設施太近以致於違反安全距離的情形，與可能會有新鋪設的道
路重疊的情形。在本研究中，結合時間資料庫與空間資料庫的作法，嘗試為上述狀況
9 
 
Implementation, Benjamin-Cummings, San Francisco, CA. 
11. Wilde, W.J., Grant, C., and White G.T. (2003) “Controlling and Reducing The Frequency of 
Pavement Utility Cuts.”  Transportation Research Board Annual Meeting, Washington, 
D.C., January, 2003. 
12. Wolfson, O., Xu, B., Chamberlain, S., and Jiang, L. (1998) “Moving Objects Databases: 
Issues and Solutions.” Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Scientific 
and Statistical Database Management, IEEE, Capri, Italy, 111-122. 
13. Wolfson, O. (2002) “Moving Objects Information Management: The Database Challenge.” 
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Springer Berlin / Heidelberg, 2382, 15-26. 
 
七、計畫成果自評部份 
 
z 道路鋪面因管線單位施工所造成的破壞已成為道路管理單位最嚴重的問題之一，
本研究應用時間資料庫的作法，結合現有 GIS 或空間資料庫的技術，在以關聯式
表格結構的基礎上，架構出能考量時間與空間的管線施工申請物件，除能讓道路
管理單位迅速查詢出有合併可能的管線施工申請外，亦能有效率地調查任何違反
施工規範的申請物件。此外在本研究中，對於管線施工單位實際執行專案時，其
工地附近車流等交通狀況亦提供一管理考核的機制，使得管線施工單位之交通管
理能力可作檢視，日後便可藉以淘汰不適任的承包商。這些成果將有助於改善目
前管線單位與道路管理單位的溝通協調工作，以一資訊化的作法協助雙方共同解
決問題，提升道路與管線基礎設施的施工品質與服務效率。 
 
z 本研究所開發之示範系統 STUOD，雖然目前僅考慮管線施工的排程衝突、管線施
工的安全距離、新鋪路面的禁止管線施工，與工地附近的車流狀況，在與本系林
志棟教授的團隊合作下，使用者試用初步反應不錯，本研究團隊會繼續改良使用
者介面，並加強不同圖檔格式匯入匯出功能，使 STUOD 的工具適用性與擴展性更
完備。 
 
z 本研究的成果，除發表在 2008 年五月以本計畫經費所參加的國際研討會外，亦已
發表在 2008 十月的 ASCE Pavement Conference 上(收錄於 EI)，在審稿的三位評
審中，有兩位均給予高度的肯定。本研究團隊也將再接再厲，完備文章的內容後，
投稿於 Automation in Construction (SCI)期刊中。 
 
11 
 
技術特點 
傳統上道路管理單位在審查管線單位的施工申請時，須同時考慮多
項因子，在無電腦的輔助下，必須人工比對，不但耗時也易出錯。
本技術提供一簡潔的方式表達管線單位的施工申請書，透過改良後
的時空資料庫查詢演算法，可精確地達到施工管理上的各種需求，
並不增加管線單位的資訊處理工作量。 
推廣及運用的價值 
除國內的道路管理單位外，管線單位對於道路申請開挖的需求為全
世界各地交通單位最棘手的問題之一。儘管各地申請流程不一，本
技術的核心演算法事實上與管理流程無關，只需在最終的使用者介
面層改寫語言，應能推廣到不同的行政組織內。在運用本技術的價
值部分，主要可從人力成本的節省，與資料正確性的提升兩方面來
看，此外，避免頻繁的道路開挖對於用路人、道路維護經費、交通
安全等，均具有重大助益。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
2 
 
 
報告人的場次為五月二十一日上午場，場次名稱為 Infrastructure and System 
Reliability，報告人為第一篇文章，主持人為來自加拿大Waterloo大學土木系的 Pandey
教授，該場次其他文章為： 
 
Time: WEDNESDAY, MAY 21, 2008 – 9:40-11:30 AM 
Venue: Coffman President’s Room at University of Minnesota 
1. “Modeling Critical Infrastructure Interdependencies” by Chou, C.-C (中大土木系) 
2. “A Graphically-Assisted Reliability Prediction System Using State-Of-The-Art 
Stochastic Modeling And Simulation Tools: Illustrative Application To Aircraft Jet 
Engines” by Ghiocel, D.M. 
3. “Stochastic Renewal Process Model For Infrastructure Asset Management” by Pandey, 
M.D., Cheng, T., and Datla, S.V. (加拿大Waterloo大學土木系) 
4. “A Multi-State Components Approach in Life-Cycle Optimization of Engineered 
Facilities” by Qin, J. and Faber, M.H. (瑞士聯邦理工學院結構工程所) 
5. “Probabilistic Model Framework For The Design Of Structural Masonry” by N. 
Mojsiloviü and M.H. Faber(瑞士聯邦理工學院結構工程所) 
 
在會議所在地Minnesota大學土木系精心策劃下，EM08研討會的與會者透過每天早
上七點開始的早餐時間，每場報告的問答時間，中間的 Coffee Break、校園內的午餐，與
晚宴等等，可作深度的交流與討論。例如報告人這次碰到許多來自 UT Austin的老師、
學長與學弟，除了討論基礎設施系統的塑模問題外，也交換彼此目前正從事研究的心得。 
 
值得一提的是，由於管線系統亦是一城市相當重要的基礎設施，報告人此次發表的
文章可謂對這類基礎設施嘗試作一關聯分析，該場次的主持人 Pandey教授表示去年他的
研究團隊也嘗試作此研究，但用不同的方法，會後我們討論了應用這些方法的優缺點，
與可能改進的方案等。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
首先非常感謝國科會的支持，此為報告人回國任教後，第一次再度踏進美國學術界
重要的研討會，只是以往是以學生身分參與，這次是代表中大的名義參加，身分的轉換
與報告心態的調適，均是藉由此親身體驗的作法，讓報告人感到任重道遠，收獲良多。 
 
在這短短的四天行程中，報告人除了與報告文章所在的場次與會人士討論外，也參
與其他場次，與演講者交流彼此研究的問題與心得，學到相當多知識，簡述如下： 
 
1. 由於 EM08是大型研討會，雖然會議名稱與工程力學有直接相關，但事實上有相
當多基礎設施管理面、維護面與資訊模擬面等等的論文場次，從與報告人討論的
Inaugural International Conference of the Engineering Mechanics Institute  
 1
MODELING CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE INTERDEPENDENCIES
Chien-Cheng Chou, Yi-Ping Chen, and Chien-Ming Chiu 
National Central University, Jhongli, Taoyuan 32001, Taiwan 
ccchou@ncu.edu.tw, vicky74722@yahoo.com.tw, lion5123@gmail.com 
Abstract 
Critical infrastructure (CI) is broadly defined as a set of important assets for producing or distributing a 
continuous flow of essential goods or services.  When a disaster engenders failure of one CI system, it can 
be expected that other CI systems that need services or goods originally provided by the discontinued 
system will stop shortly, exacerbating the damage caused by the disaster.  Currently, less research utilized a 
thorough methodology to model CI interdependencies.  A comprehensive understanding of how networked 
CI systems work can provide the means to better evaluate vulnerabilities related to hazards.  This research 
designed an integrated information model to best characterize CI interdependencies for disaster mitigation.  
The mechanisms of Unified Modeling Language were employed to derive new model elements.  A 
literature review of current CI interdependency-related studies was conducted.  Functional and non-
functional requirements of the model were determined, followed by conclusions for the research. 
Introduction 
Critical infrastructure (CI) is broadly defined as a set of important assets for producing or 
distributing a continuous flow of essential goods or services of a country (Fisher and 
Peerenboom 2000).  These assets include, but are not limited to, facilities for 
transportation, telecommunications, electric power systems, gas and oil storage and 
transportation, water supply systems, and wastewater treatment systems.  Since the 
operation of a CI system usually requires support from other CI systems, these 
interactions often create complex relationships or so-called interdependencies that cross 
system boundaries (Haimes 2005).  As the complexity and interconnectedness of a 
country’s CI systems evolve, threats and vulnerabilities for the country increase.  When a 
disaster engenders failure of one CI system, sometimes the CI interdependencies become 
one of the root causes that exacerbate the degree and scope of the disaster-related damage.  
For example, a power generation plant has only one entrance road, which was torn down 
by an earthquake and is scheduled to be opened one month later.  It can be expected that 
since fuel for the plant can no longer be transported through the road, shortage of electric 
power will soon spread along the power transmission and distribution networks.  Further, 
any CI systems that need electricity provided by the plant may not function well unless 
the problems of the entrance road can be fixed. 
Although owners of CI systems have digitalize their individual facility data for 
supervising the operations of the systems, CI interdependency data are not included in 
such data sets due to economical or security issues (Rinaldi et al. 2001).  In fact, the 
importance of the CI interdependencies has been neglected for a long time not only in the 
maintenance phase but in the planning and design phases (El-Diraby 2005).  However, 
research has shown that in order to actively reduce a disaster’s impact, disaster 
management officials should focus more on the damage caused during and after the 
disaster (Laefer et al. 2006).  Because the majority of the damage after a disaster root in 
  3
3. Geographic Interdependency: CI systems are geographically interdependent if a 
local environmental event can create state changes in all of them. 
There are interdependencies between CI systems that cannot be classified as physical, 
cyber, or geographic interdependencies (Uddin and Engi 2002).  More investigations 
should be conducted to divide ambiguous interdependencies discovered into several 
direct interdependencies combined.  Lastly, attributes of a CI interdependency enrich the 
capability of a CI interdependency model to describe more information concerning the CI 
interdependency.  Attributes data should be associated with a CI interdependency, e.g., 
the time when the interdependency is enacted, or the information exchanged in a cyber 
interdependency.  However, most current CI interdependency models cannot 
accommodate this requirement. 
The Disaster Management Process 
The disaster management process consists of six disaster-related phases (USFDA 2003): 
(1) identification; (2) prediction; (3) mitigation; (4) preparation; (5) response; and (6) 
recovery.  The identification phase involves ascertaining any opportunity pertaining to 
community assets, i.e., CI systems, fire trucks, hospital beds, etc., that may be affected by 
a disaster.  The prediction phase consists of scientific analysis tasks, including 
meteorological, geologic, hydrologic, agricultural, environmental, epidemiologic 
calculations and simulations.  The mitigation phase concerns active reductions of a 
disaster’s impact, whereas the preparation phase includes needed actions to contend with 
the portion of a disaster’s impact that cannot be mitigated.  The response phase focuses 
on real-time actions as a disaster evolves, whereas the recovery phase deals with how to 
restore community assets affected by a disaster (Pradhan et al. 2007). 
Researchers have analyzed requirements of a DMS covering all six phases of the disaster 
management process (Pradhan et al. 2007).  Briefly, a DMS is designed to significantly 
lessen the loss of human life and the economic costs of a disaster, and should have three 
components (Uddin and Engi 2002): (1) a baseline database: which contains the basic 
information of the community assets affected by a disaster; (2) spatial querying: which 
can provide disaster management officials with a graphical interface showing designated 
geographical information of the disaster and community assets, e.g., locating the shortest 
evacuation path and optimizing the resource distribution; and (3) ubiquitous computing: 
which means redundant computing resources should be allocated to execute the DMS 
simultaneously (Pradhan et al. 2007). 
Although most of the current DMSs have stored CI system data for disaster management 
purposes, CI interdependency data have not been rigorously documented and analyzed 
(Laefer et al. 2006).  The rescue operations after September 11, 2001 were recognized as 
lack of an integrated data repository that can be used to predict possible subsequent 
infrastructure failures (Pradhan et al. 2007).  CI interdependency data can play a major 
role in establishing the knowledge base for the rescue operations during and after a 
disaster.  Disaster management officials or decision makers need to know not only direct 
impact on community assets of a disaster but indirect impact on other CI systems that 
  5
Figure 1. UML Class Diagram of the CI Interdependency Model. 
Infrastructure and Management Classes 
Three classes pertain to this part: 
Organization: this class represents the owner of a CI system.  It includes a person’s 
contact information so that disaster management officials can get in touch with him or her 
when potential damage of the infrastructure occurs. 
Enterprise: this class represents the concept of the organization’s business entity.  For 
example, a city government may be responsible for the water supply system, the 
wastewater treatment system, and the power distribution system.  There must be three 
engineering divisions in the city government, so “Enterprise” represents the city 
government whereas “Organization” represents each engineering division.  The 
“Enterprise-Organization” structure can be easily extended to model any infrastructure 
owners’ organizations. 
  7
infrastructure that needs services or resources provided by the supporting infrastructure.  
For example, the operation of a power plant depends on the entrance road, whereas the 
traffic control system on the road needs electricity provided by the power plant.  Two 
relationship objects should be created for this interdependency.  Additionally, the class 
consists of six attributes: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. The Valid Time Dimension of ServicePeriod. 
1. Name: the name of the relationship. 
2. Description: notes or other information regarding this relationship. 
3. TimeLag: the time span of the relationship that will cause the dependent 
infrastructure to stop or reduce the service level. 
4. MinStatus: the minimum status of the supporting infrastructure that will activate 
the relationship, i.e., to shut down the dependent infrastructure. 
5. ActiveTime T: the time when the relationship is activated.  This attribute is time-
sensitive and can provide detailed records of how a disaster propagates. 
6. ImportantR: the weight or ratio of the relationship with respect to the dependent 
infrastructure.  For example, two infrastructure systems support the operation of 
the third infrastructure.  The two infrastructure systems may play different roles in 
supporting the third one.  Hence, the weight for each supporting infrastructure is 
different. 
Physical: this class represents the physical relationship type in the CI interdependency 
model.  Relationship attributes can be easily modeled in the class.  In the proposed model, 
the resource that bridges the two infrastructures is recorded here. 
Geographic: this class represents the geographic relationship type in the CI 
interdependency model.  In the proposed model, the radius defining the boundary of two 
infrastructures that may work or stop at the same time is recorded here. 
2009/1/1 2009/3/1 2009/5/1
Original Value Domain 
(ServicePeriod)
Valid Time Domain
2008/11/1
2009/1/1
2009/3/1
Transaction Time Domain
