to be switched among multiple streams in an association. This 
powerful mechanism allows SCTP to provide increased 
availability and reliability. 
Like TCP, a SCTP association must be established before 
delivering data segment. But SCTP provides not only reliable 
transmission service, but also partial reliable (configurable 
reliability from fully reliable to send once only), unreliable, 
ordered, partial ordered and unordered transmission service. In 
SCTP, if the partial reliability (PR) mode is not started, SCTP 
provides reliable transmission service equivalent to TCP, but 
under PR mode, SCTP provides partially reliable transmission 
service, as in UDP. When transmitting the packet, PR-SCTP 
designates the lifetime of the packet; if the packet is not 
successfully transmitted within the scheduled time, SCTP 
would give up transmission of the packet, and use 
FORWARD-TSN packets that notify the endpoint to omit this 
packet. 
Data transmission in SCTP is message-oriented. As 
opposed to byte-stream sequence number used in TCP, SCTP 
uses transmission sequence number (TSN) to govern the 
transmission of messages and the detection of message loss. 
The SCTP protocol bases the congestion control on TCP 
congestion control principles, and uses SACK extensions for 
reception of acknowledgment at the receiver side. However, 
congestion controls of standard SCTP are applied to the entire 
association (RFC 2960), whether using multiple 
source/destination IP addresses or multiple paths. Hence, this 
kind of per-association congestion control limits the 
performance of SCTP as multiple paths are involved in an 
association.  
As shown in Figure 1, the SCTP packet is composed of a 
common header and a series of chunks. The chunks included in 
the SCTP packet may be control or data chunks, where data 
chunks contain user messages, while control chunks contain 
control information. Each chunk begins with a type field, 
which is used to distinguish between data chunks and various 
types of control chunks, followed by chunk specific flags and a 
chunk length field. In addition, for reliability and congestion 
control, each data chunk is assigned a unique TSN, while 
stream identifier and stream sequence number are used to 
determine the delivery sequence of received data for multi-
streaming support [2]. 
 
 
(a) Packet format 
 
(b) Chunk field 
Figure 1.  SCTP packet format 
To reduce the overhead by packet header, SCTP binds 
several data chunks or control chunks in a packet. Basically, 
the amount of chunks is not limited and the packet size only 
has to be limited under maximum transmission unit (MTU). 
Furthermore, the heartbeat chunks are sent periodically to all 
idle destinations (i.e., alternate addresses), and a counter is 
maintained on the number of heartbeats sent to an inactive 
destination without receipt of a corresponding heartbeat ACK. 
When this counter exceeds a configured maximum, that 
destination address is also declared inactive. 
B. Problem on MPEG Video Stream over Transport 
Protocols 
MPEG (Motion Picture Experts Group) is the most widely 
applied video and audio compression standard of the Internet. 
Due to continuous video frames are very similar, pixel value of 
neighbor frames are usually similar. When transmitting video 
frames, MPEG estimates variation of neighbor frames and 
processes according to these variations, deleting familiar and 
repeating frame, compressing video frame, and finally, after 
coding via VLC (variable length coding) and combining with 
dynamic motion, generates compressed video coding. 
In MPEG coding, the coded video stream may be classified 
into three frames: I-frame, P-frame and B-frame. I-Frame refers 
to its frame data to code without referring to other frames. P-
frame refers to previously coded I-frame or P-frame and its 
data to code. B-frame refers to previous and later I-frame or P-
frame and its data to code. 
Generally, MPEG video can be divided into several GOP to 
code. As illustrated in Figure 2, a GOP may be represented as 
G(N, M), where N denotes number of frames from one I-frame 
to next I-frame, M denotes number of frames from one I-frame 
to next P-frame or one P-frame to next P-frame. For example, 
G(12, 3) represents that a GOP contains 1 I-frame, 3 P-frames 
and 8 B-frames. 
 
Figure 2.  An illustration of MPEG GOP (N = 12, M = 3) 
In an I-frame of GOP, if packets of this I-frame are received, 
this I-frame is considered decodable. When packets in a P-
frame of GOP are correctly received and its previously referred 
I-frame or P-frame can be correctly decoded, this P-frame is 
considered decodable. Finally, when packets in a B-frame of 
GOP can be correctly received and its previously referred B-
frame and previous and later referred I-frame or P-frame can be 
correctly decoded, this B-frame is considered decodable. Thus, 
when packets of a frame and packets of referred frame can be 
received correctly, this frame is considered decodable. 
From Figure 2, it is known that in hierarchical coding, P-
frame decodes according to I-frame content, while B-frame 
decodes according to I-frame or P-frame. For this reason, in a 
GOP, if an I-frame packet loses during transmission and leads 
to decoding failure of receiver side, the later P-frame and B-
frame are not able to be decoded and causes invalid frames of 
GOP, leading to significant degradation of video quality. 
When congestion window (W) is less than slow start threshold 
(Wt), STCP is said to be in its slow-start phase and the size of 
the congestion window is increased exponentially. However, 
when the threshold limit is reached, STCP enters the 
congestion avoidance phase and increases the congestion 
window linearly. When detecting packet loss, the modified 
SCTP provides differential retransmission mechanism, I-frame 
is retransmitted firstly, while P-frame later. Priority of B-frame 
is same as that of general data frame. 
The bandwidth estimation mechanism has significant effect 
on SCTP performance because SCTP sources receive no 
support from the network that would enable them to identify 
the link capacity of a bottleneck on the path to their 
destinations. Therefore, an additional mechanism is required 
with the capability of establishing an appropriate initial value 
of a slow-start threshold. Accordingly, this study develops a 
bandwidth estimation algorithm to estimate bandwidth 
currently available for SCTP sources. The details of the 
bandwidth estimation algorithm are described in the following. 
Let μ denote the observed transmission rate of a stream 
within the association from source to destination. If a queue 
gradually accumulates at the bottleneck, the correlation 
between packets in-flight along the connection path and the 
window size during a measured round-trip period is given by: 
 
   ( ) tw ρμ −=                                  (1) 
 
where w and ρ refer to congestion window and the observed 
buffer size at the bottleneck, respectively. 
Let µ'  denote the measured bandwidth. Based on the Packet 
pair scheme [12], measured bandwidth µ'  can be obtained by 
dividing the number of ACK packets by the sum of ACK inter-
arrival times. In the proposed startup algorithm, the estimated 
bandwidth, per round-trip time interval, is given by: 
 ( ) μνμνλ ′⋅−+⋅= 1                           (2) 
 
where ν  is the ratio of the time required to transmit W packets 
to the measured RTT round-trip. In Eq. (2), estimated 
bandwidth λ varies with the bandwidth utilization of the SCTP 
stream in the measured round-trip. At the beginning of the 
startup procedure, the SCTP stream commences with small w 
and ν  values, thus the estimated bandwidth is govern by 
measured bandwidth ߤ'. However, when the sender bandwidth 
utilization achieves a higher value (indicated by ν), the 
expected bandwidth µ dominates. 
IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS 
The performance of the modified multi-streaming scheme 
was evaluated using the ns-2 network simulator [13]. The 
discussions commence with a simple network model shown in 
Figure 4. In this model, each link is labeled with its 
corresponding bandwidth and propagation delay. Note that in 
the following simulations, the link capacity, propagation delay 
and its packet error rate may be re-configured to investigate 
different evaluation scenarios. 
 
Figure 4.  Simple simulation model 
Figure 5 is partial results of simulation model, next field of 
TSN number represents type of encapsulated data, i denote I-
frame, p denotes P-frame, and b denotes B-frame. Furthermore, 
SID (stream ID) denotes sequence number of stream. When 
processing 4-way handshake, source and destination of SCTP 
communicate to determine the type (in this study, it is MPEG) 
of application layer multimedia data. From the example, it is 
seen, when video stream arrives transport layer, modified 
SCTP may classify frames to various streams and transmit via 
multi-streaming mechanism. 
 
 
Figure 5.  Snapshot of partly simulation process 
Table 1 shows the variation of the SCTP goodput with the 
packet error rate (PER). The round-trip delay time is 20ms and 
the bottleneck bandwidth is 155 Mbps. It is observed that the 
throughput achieved by modified SCTP (mSCTP) is greater 
than that of the original SCTP. The reason for this is that the 
proposed per-stream differential mechanism and bandwidth 
estimation algorithm starts each round-trip by filling the bit 
pipe to its capacity, whereas conventional SCTP simply applies 
the default threshold value and blindly halves the window size 
in the event of congestion. 
From the discussions above, it is clear that modified SCTP 
provides an effective scheme for quickly retransmitting the 
important stream, thereby eliminating timeout and long idle 
time periods. Compared with conventional scheme, modified 
SCTP significantly improves the end-to-end performance based 
on the proposed bandwidth estimation mechanism and allows 
[10] H. Ma and M. EI Zarki, A New Transport Protocol for 
Broadcasting/Multicasting MPEG-2 Video over Wireless ATM Access 
Networks, Wireless Networks Vol. 8: 317 – 380, Jul. 2002. 
[11] H.Y. Hsieh and R. Sivakumar, A Transport Layer Approach for 
Achieving Aggregate Bandwidths on Multi-Homed Mobile Hosts, 
ACM/Springer Wireless Networks, Vol. 11 (1-2): 99-114, Jan. 2005. 
[12] S. Keshav, A Control-Theoretic Approach to Flow Control, ACM 
SIGCOMM (1991) 3–15. 
[13] Network Simulator, NS-2, http://www.isi.edu/nsnam/ns. 
 
 2
經?存?敘?前?敘?席?對?敘?稿?少?少?對?整?存?前?束?束?整?都?束敘前?束識科?少?前?點束束?：? 
   都?束?科?束?存?敘?稿?經?攜?前?港?存?彼?Prof. Naveen Chilamkurti (General Co-Chairs, from Australia)都?少?
束?彼?席?：?束?席?都?少?束?認?識?科?2009 束少Prof. Chilamkurti 彼?點?束?束敘存?少?整?對?餐稿彼?認?點?：?彼?科?Prof. 
Chilamkurti 束識訊餐經?整?束?點束束彼稿?稿?：?存?前?彼?束?存?束?港?束?：?存?束?Prof. Chilamkurti 都?束?少?點?整?束?點束束彼整?
存?經?攜?都?少?少?"Ad-hoc Networks & Routing"都?席?Session 前?經?攜?存?科?少?彼?少?都?存?前?存?彼?Dr. Torab 
Torabi 傳?束?認?識?：?都?束?經?攜?點?餐?前?存?點?科?存?席?港?：?前都存?點?傳束少?束識彼?束?稿?席港前?整?前?：?束?彼?敘?存?經?攜?前?
整?前?點?科?存?少?敘?少?港都：?席?港?：?點?敘?彼?存?觀?前?整?前?彼?存?：?存?束?存?科?前?Session 少?：?存?束?存?傳?前?敘?都?彼?
前?科?束識少?束?彼?束?少?敘?少?港都束?存?前?存?存?點?敘?席?觀對認?少?整?束?前?整?存?：?席?存傳前?敘?前?存?：?存?訊餐少?存?存?彼?存?
點?存傳彼?彼?束?點?敘?前?Prof. Ryu 存?整?：?觀?束?攜?敘?都?束?整?存?對?前?整?都?前?存?存?訊?前?科?前?敘?存?存?：?席?敘?訊經前?：?
束?存?束?前都存?科?前?Session 少?：?束?少?認?識?少?彼?束?Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI：?存?港?訊?都?少?：?席港
敘?少?整?認?存?敘?存?116) 前?Prof. Robert E. Kinicki：?Prof. Kinicki 對?前?Sensor Network 前?彼?存?彼?彼?前?少?
都?前?敘?存?存?：?存?傳?傳?前?20 少?攜?少?點?束?45 敘 束?稿?存?：?少?席?前?敘?認?訊?彼?存?敘?束識整?：?觀?束?點?訊?彼?存?：? 
 存?都?少?少?少?少?經?攜?傳?束?：?識?港?存?彼?ISWPC2011 前?少?束?少?席?餐?敘?科?：?束?彼?存?存?敘?彼?少?整?前?港敘敘?敘?
存?少?束?前?科?整?整?存?少?束?少?前?識?傳?Eaton Hotel 彼?席?港?都?少?少?整?傳?束?敘?都?：?傳束科?傳?束?束?傳?前?彼?餐稿港?：?
點?少?：?都?束?存?敘?港?彼?前?束經點?港?科?存?ISWPC2011 識?識?少?少?彼?彼?束?存?科?存?敘?前?整?前?：?存?訊餐敘?稿?整?存?傳?
前攜敘?稿?傳?港：：?觀?觀?席?港?敘?稿?都?存?前?席?少?存?敘?：?整?存?彼?束?都?存?束?束識束經點?：?束敘前?：? 
 
少?：?束?對?敘?觀?科?敘?(傳存科 傳 科 敘?前?都?) :  
 
彼?席?港?都?少?少?整?敘?都?(對?少?存?點?科?席?港?都?少?少?整?少?整?敘?) 
存?：?科?攜?: 傳存 
少?：?攜?存?對?訊認存?認?少?少?席? 
 4
!
存?科?Ad-hoc Networks & Routing Session 前?經?存?2 ( 席?存傳束?束?少?都?少?) 
 
!
經?攜?傳?束?科?彼?彼?存?Professor 存 稿!
!
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：程榮祥 計畫編號：99-2221-E-168-035- 
計畫名稱：利用 SCTP 多串流機制改善 MPEG 視訊串流之傳輸效能 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
