2 
 
quality degradation than several distinct cross-
layer schemes.   
計畫緣由與文獻探討 
Although wireless network is getting more 
developed, some new technology still keeps on 
develop such as WiMax, LTE, etc. Among 
those, Wi-Fi is the most popular. However, 
according to some current research, some 
drawbacks still exist especially in real-time 
application such as VoIP or video streaming. As 
for real-time application, the most troublesome 
issue is delay which may lead to unsteady voice 
or sound effect while transmission and causes 
some irritation to users. Speaking of wireless 
network, the earliest one such as IEEE 
802.11a/b/g/n, and as time goes by, recent 
wireless network connection improves a lot, 
especially on speed. Most functions are added 
such as QoS which can deal with different 
packets regarding priority. Two of the featured 
drawbacks in wireless network connections are 
collision and packet error. Take collision as 
example, generally, each user shares the same 
bandwidth, but once the quantity of users 
increases, the bandwidth will decrease for each 
user. The probability of accessing the channel at 
the same time increases so the collision will 
occur more often. Furthermore, signals from 
wireless network will be faded due to the 
faraway distance or noise interference, which 
may lead to the transmission error in packet and 
retransmission occurs. Although the effect of 
delay will be not so strong to HTTP, Telnet or 
FTP users, for real-time application users, this 
may lead to serious effects. 
Bandwidth in the wireless network is not as 
same as wired network. When the quantity of 
users increases, bandwidth may be not 
applicable anymore. This situation easily occurs 
when people transmit video data. As can be 
seen from [3-7], it is suitable for using ULP 
(unequal Loss Protection) method. In other 
words, packets of higher priority will be 
transmitted first in order to upgrade the video 
quality for the receivers. Although IEEE 
802.11e provides four different priority queues, 
the result shows distinguishable effect only in 
two higher priority queues according to the 
research [1].  
研究方法 
In this section, the cross-layer architecture 
and how to improve video transmission quality 
will be introduced. So-called cross-layer means 
the users break the original OSI structure in 
order to make connection with each other. For 
example, the lower layer can report the channel 
condition detected to the upper layer, and the 
application program of the upper layer can then 
know the current channel condition and make 
appropriate adjustment so as to achieve 
transmission performance improvement. 
Our design is to make attachment available 
to header while senders try to send video 
information. For example, the currently 
transmitted frame type and the GOP ID it 
belongs to. The cross layer architecture is as 
shown in figure 1. In AP’s MAC aspect, we 
have adopted IEEE 802.11e to realize QoS; 
since several queues with different priority are 
used to compete for the channel, it can thus 
distribute video frames to the different queues 
according to different frame types. Hence, 
important frame might have more chance to be 
transmitted to ensure video quality. 
The NCE (Network Condition Estimator) is 
designed to distinguish network errors caused 
by congestion or interference at MAC layer. 
Based on the information provided from 
application layer and NCE, the PSRC (Packet-
Selective Rate Controller) and ATEC (Adaptive 
TXOP Error Controller) are proposed to 
eliminate the effect caused by network errors 
and improve video quality (as shown in figure 
1). 
4 
 
generally 21   . It can be found that no matter 
congestion takes place or not, iEBW  would 
deteriorate due to the lack of ACK packets. In 
the meantime, the failure of retransmission will 
lead to serious packet loss and iR  and iD  will 
apparently increase. Therefore, we take that as 
evident to judge whether there are errors in 
network. 
No matter whether the packet errors occur 
or not, while the percentage of queue utilization 
stands over 90%, it means the packets at the AP 
have no enough time to be processed, and the 
subsequent result is the occurrence of network 
congestion. Hence, it can be predicted that iR  
will rise accordingly, but since there is 
CSMA/CA mechanism in the MAC, iD  will 
instead, show no significant increase; therefore, 
we can see that the processing speed at the 
wireless network side has reached saturated 
status, but the sender still continuously sends 
out packet, hence, most of the packet loss will 
occur at the queue, hence, through the use iQ  
accompanied with iR , we can then distinguish 
whether network congestion is going to happen 
or not. 
PSRC (Packet-Selective Rate Controller)  
In the architecture, video packets are placed 
at two different queues according to the frame 
types, among them, I-Frame packet is 
independently placed at a queue of the highest 
priority, and the packets of P and B-Frame are 
placed respectively at the queue of secondary 
priority; when congestion occurs in the network, 
the queue of the highest priority will continue 
the transmission so as to ensure video quality. 
For the secondary queue, the ULP way we 
have adopted when the network is in congestion 
is not like the way in [3-5, 7], which simply 
abandons P and B-Frame packet, or like the 
way in [6], which removes totally B-Frame 
packet but decides whether P-Frame packet is to 
be removed according to 50% probability; 
instead, here we throw away the B-Frame 
packet first, then we go to the queue to find P-
Frame packet to substitute for transmission. 
That is, the transmission of queue is not forced 
to stop, instead, the right to use channel this 
time is transmitted to another packet of higher 
priority, this is because in our architecture, P 
and B-Frame belongs to the same queue. By 
doing so, we can reduce time to compete for 
channel, and the pseudo-code of PSRC (Packet-
Selective Rate Controller) is as in the following: 
 
 
Figure 2. The illustration of adaptive TXOP 
ATEC (Adaptive TXOP Error Controller) 
Different than the condition of network 
congestion, the cause for packet transmission 
error might be because the channel is interfered 
by other magnetic wave or when the user is 
moving rapidly. Because the error occurs in 
random way, no matter how important the 
packet to be transmitted is, loss might occur, 
but if the lost one is I-Frame packet, then the 
ULP used will cause reverse effect; therefore, 
when the network error rate is high, what we 
need to do is to reduce the transmission rate. 
Our way is through dynamic adjustment of 
time duration of IEEE 802.11e TXOP limit to 
control the data amount to be transmitted. When 
the error rate is high, TXOP time is reduced so 
that after the acquisition of right of use of the 
ipkt = the first element in queue. 
if TRUECongestion  && Frame-Bipkt  then 
find next Frame-Pjpkt  
return jpkt  
end if 
return ipkt  
6 
 
situation [1]. In the following section, several 
experiments have been proposed. 
 
Figure 4. Relationships among error, retry and drop 
rate. 
 
Figure 5. Channel available bandwidth. 
Environment with PER but no Congestion 
First, in the congestion-free (transmission 
with only one receiver and video streaming 
server) network environment with PER, the 
impact on video transmission via ATEC has 
been tested. From figure 4, it shows that when 
error occurs in channel, the retry rate of the 
packet will rise accordingly; when the 
frequency of retry is too large, AP will drop 
packets and the measured bandwidth will 
decrease here too (as shown in figure 5). Via 
NCE, the network condition is judged and the 
packet error rate can be obtained. 
When the error rate of the network becomes 
larger, ATEC will reduce the TXOP limit time 
(as shown in figure 6). Hence, it can reduce the 
loss rate of all kinds of frame packets. Figure 7 
shows that ATEC provides better video quality 
in the varying channel condition than the 
802.11e method. 
 
Figure 6. Adaptive TXOP controlled by ATEC. 
 
Figure 7. Performance comparison of ATEC and 
Multi-Queue. 
Environment with Congestion but no PER  
Contrary to the previous network 
environment, the impact on video transmission 
via PSRC has been tested in the congestion 
network without PER. First, NCE is used to 
judge whether the network is in congestion. 
When the network is in congestion, the queue 
utilization rate always stays at fully loaded 
status (as shown in figure 8). Different from the 
occurrence of PER in the network, the retry rate 
is not high and the measured bandwidth is 
stable.  
In this experiment, comparison is also 
made with other congestion control methods, 
and the comparison targets include: (a) IEEE 
802.11 (b) IEEE 802.11e multi queue (c) CAPS 
(no aggregate) [1] (d) DPST (Dynamic Packet 
Selective Transmission) [6].  
As shown in figure 9, because IEEE 802.11 
does not classify the data according to the 
priority, hence, when network congestion 
8 
 
[2] Demircin, M.U. and van Beek, P., “Bandwidth 
Estimation and Robust Video Streaming Over 
802.11E Wireless Lans”, IEEE ICME, 2005 
[3] Hung-Chin Jang  and Yu-Ti Su , “A Hybrid 
Design Framework for Video Streaming in IEEE 
802.11e Wireless Network,” Advanced 
Information Networking and Applications, 2008. 
[4] A. Ksentini, M. Naimi, A. Gueroui, “Toward an 
improvement of H.264 video  transmission over 
IEEE 802.11e through a Cross layer 
architecture,” IEEE Communications Magazine, 
2006. 
[5] M. van der Schaar and S. Shankar N., “Cross 
layer wireless multimedia transmission: 
challenges, principles, and new paradigms,” 
IEEE Wireless Communications, 2005. 
[6] Wen-Tsuen Chen, Tzu-Ching Lin, Yu-Chu 
Chang, and Jyh-Cheng Chen, “Dynamic Packet 
Selection for H.264 Video Streaming over IEEE 
802.11e WLANs,” Wireless Communications 
and Networking Conference, 2008. 
[7] C. H. Foh, Y. Zhang, Z. Ni and J. Cai, “Scalable 
Video Transmission over the IEEE 802.11e 
Networks Using Cross Layer Rate Control,” 
IEEE ICC, 2007. 
[8] Network Simulator 2 
http://www.isi.edu/nsnam/ns/ 
[9] Telecommunication Networks Group 
http://www.telematica.polito.it/ 
[10] Telecommunication Networks Group（TKN）
EvalVid Tool-set http://www.tkn.tu-
berlin.de/research/evalvid/ 
[11] ffmpeg http://ffmpeg.mplayerhq.hu/ 
[12] Y.C. Su, C.W. Lee and Y.H. Yang, “The Fast 
Stroke Filter,” International Conference on 
Machine Learning and Cybernetics 2010 
(ICMLC 2010), Qingdao, China, pp.3044-3049, 
July 11-14, 2010. 
[13] C.Y. Lee, S.J. Lin, C.W. Lee and C.S. Yang, 
“Adaptive Camera Assignment and Hand-off 
Algorithm in Multiple Active Camera 
Surveillance System,” International Conference 
on Machine Learning and Cybernetics 2010 
(ICMLC 2010), Qingdao, China, pp.3015-3020, 
July 11-14, 2010. 
[14] C.Y. Lee, S.J. Lin, C.W. Lee and C.S. Yang, 
“An Efficient Camera Hand-off Filter in Real-
Time Surveillance Tracking System,” accepted 
for publication in the International Journal of 
Innovative Computing, Information and Control 
ICIC International Volume 8, Number 3, March 
2012.  
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：李振偉 計畫編號：99-2221-E-228-003- 
計畫名稱：使用錯誤和流量結合控制之跨層設計以改善在 802.11e WLAN 上的視訊傳輪 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100% 
論 文 標 題 : An 
Efficient Camera 
Hand-off Filter 
in Real-time 
Surveillance 
Tracking System
發 表 期
刊:International 
Journal of 
Innovative 
Computing, 
Information and 
Control Volume 8, 
Number 3, March 
2012 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
國外 論文著作 
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
論 文 標 題 : The 
Fast Stroke 
Filter 
研 討 會 : 
International 
Conference on 
Machine Learning 
 
