2中文摘要
磁性膠體磨料是以高分子膠體混合磁性顆粒與磨料，再搭配磁力研磨的加工方式可達到
高效率的研磨方法。此種磁性膠體磨料不但製作簡單，且可回收重複使用，可大幅降低研磨
成本。因此本研究使用磁性膠體磨料，對模具鋼SKD11進行表面的研拋，來探討磁性膠體磨
料之拋光機制。實驗過程，先探討磨料中有無添加膠體對磁力研磨的影響；接著使用不同形
式的膠體進行拋光加工，觀察高分子膠體在拋光中所扮演的腳色。另外膠體磨料在拋光後的
溫度改變也是觀察的重點期望藉由加工溫度的改變得知膠體磁力拋光的加工機制。
實驗結果顯示，在磨料中添加矽膠膠體當結合劑，不但可以快速降低工件的表面粗糙度；
而且它的拋光效率，比沒有使用膠體當結合劑的磨料，還高將近30%，是一種高效率的磁性
磨料。在使用不同膠體當磨料的結合劑時，發現當膠體的可塑度低時磨料較容易變形，經過
30分鐘的拋光後，磨料加工溫度可以高達120oC左右，這樣的高溫讓膠體磨料在拋光區域產
生很好的流動效應，造成磨料的自我替換，而達到很好的拋光效果；像本研究使用水性矽膠
膠體當結合劑，對SKD11試片進行拋光，發現只加工短短的5分鐘，工件的表面粗糙度就可由
Ra 0.621μm，降至Ra 0.0275μm，表面粗糙度改善率高達到95.5%，驗證膠體磁力研磨確實具
有優異的研拋效能。
關鍵字：高分子膠體、膠體磨料、磁力拋光、表面粗糙度
Abstract
Silicone gels mixing with steel grits and silicone carbons were abrasive media with permeance
to obtain excellent polishing efficiency in the magnetic finishing with gel abrasive (MFGA). These
abrasive media were not only easily produced but also recycled after machining, reducing the cost
in MFGA; silicone gel play an important role in this study. However, there were no researches to
discuss the mechanism in MFGA, decreasing the practicability in the magnetic finishing field.
Therefore, different silicone gels were used to locate the abrasion behavior in this study and
established mechanism of MFGA.
Polishing efficiencies with or without silicone gels were identified to finish the cylindrical rod
first in our study. In addition, Silicone gels are temperature dependent materials, so temperature in
the working area was then to verify the relation between the circulation and efficiency. Moreover,
concentrations were one of the important factors affecting the circulation of the abrasive media in
the machining area; hence concentrations of silicone gels with different plasticity were to recognize
the circulation of abrasive media in MFGA.
Results showed that temperature of the abrasive media with low plasticity would exceed to
100oC in the working area and excellent circulation could find in the side of the abrasive media.
Furthermore, Surface roughness of workpiece markedly reduced from 0.651 to 0.025μm Ra within 
30 minutes. Regardless of silicone gels, fine circulating effects of abrasive media were effortlessly
obtained in the working area when the abrasive media with low concentrations were used as
bonding gel; additionaly, surface roughness was easily reduced to 0.030μm Ra during the fine
circulation of the abrasive media. However, good polishing efficiency could locate in the high
concentration of abrasive media if silicone gel with low plasticity was used as abrasive medium.
Keywords: Polymer Gel, Gel Abrasive, Surface Roughness
4磨料將加工件表面凸出不平的部份，進行微量的移除，配合工件（或磁極）在旋轉及往復運
動兩軸平面上的移動，產生繁亂的加工路徑，達到研拋的目的。而在加工的過程中磁性磨料
因撓性作用，使磨粒不斷的滾動與位移，使其磨粒保持著尖銳的狀態，具有自銳的效果。利
用此一加工機制可用於加工平面、曲面、複雜機件的表面、工件毛邊的去除等，均可達到相
當良好的研磨效果。
2.2 磁力研磨加工機
一般研磨加工為了達到鏡面的拋光效果，研磨切削都採多方向運動進行，所以本實驗除
了圓周方向運動外還作軸向的運動來增加表面均勻細緻，而磁力研磨除了一般運動行程外還
需要一個磁力研磨特有且主要的裝置即磁力產生設備，為達磁力研磨設備上的需求，所以特
別開發本次實驗所使用的設備。圖2為實驗機器設備實物照片圖。此設備大致上可分為幾大部
份，迴轉機構、往復機構、夾持機構、感應電磁設備、電源開關、轉速顯示器、頻率控制器、
轉速控制器、電源供應器。
2.3 實驗材料
本實驗以矽膠膠體為結合介質，混合了碳化矽磨料及鋼砂，發展出一種新的磁力研磨磨
料。本實驗所使用之三種不同可塑度的膠體分別為可塑度80、可塑度120、可塑度160，如圖
1。本實驗使用的結合膠體介質為甲基乙烯基矽橡膠，過程中因為添加不同的硬化劑，而產生
不同的硬度，所以才有三種不同的可塑度。由於此類膠體都不會黏附或殘存在工件表面，因
此很適合拿來當磨粒的結合介質。
本實驗為研磨拋光加工,因工件經過硬化熱處理一般磨料研磨效果不佳,所以選用硬度較
高的碳化矽磨料,實驗使用了兩種磨料分別為碳化矽＃6000平均粒徑大小為4.23μm。鋼砂具導
磁性，主要功能為固定膠體磨料於工作區域中。本實驗選用#70鋼砂，平均粒徑為362.9μm。
SKD模具鋼含有較高的碳及鉻元素，是模具製作上常使用的材料；此種材料熱處理後有更良
好的機械性質，例如再硬化熱處理後，硬度高達HRC60左右；本實驗以SKD11為試件材質，
試件以車床粗加工後，施以硬化熱處理再以無心研磨至所需尺寸，本實驗所選用的工件直徑
為Φ15mm、長度為65mm。
2.4 實驗方法
將試棒之初始表面粗糙度，利用#40 砂紙先研磨成約為 Ra：0.6μm±0.05μm之起始粗糙
度。再將試棒放置入於磁場工作區中，將膠體磨料置入研磨區域中，給定研磨參數。並將磨
料放置入磁場工作區中。起動機器後，依參數配置時間開始研磨。研磨完成後，將試棒從磁
場工作區中取出，並利用丙硐溶液及超音波振動洗淨機將工件表面之雜質清洗乾淨並量測研
磨後之結果。
3. 結果與討論
為了方便觀察磨料是否有對試片達到拋光的效果，故分別從加工後之表面粗糙度及材料
移除量做討論，且由加工區域之端面圖觀察膠體及磨料之變化。為了觀察加工時之端面圖，
故以下實驗統一加工時間為 30 分鐘，每 5 分鐘量測一次加工時磨料與試片間磨擦所產生的溫
度，而表面粗糙度與材料移除量則因加工 30 分鐘無間斷，故只能在加工後量測出最後值做比
較。探討其磨料更新效率及加工機制。
6力，造成表面粗糙度容易達到飽合，而無法獲得更好的表面粗糙度。可塑度 120 膠體雖因鋼
砂濃度下降，使膠體的流動性變好，但更新磨料之速率還是低於可塑度 80 的膠體，故前期拋
光效率較為遜色；而在加工後期因流動性稍低，而使鋼砂能有效的拘束膠體及磨料，產生較
大的加工力，即可達到較佳的表面粗糙度。相較之下，可塑度 160 膠體則拋光效果較差，研
磨 30 分鐘後表面粗糙度約為0.062μm。可塑度 160 膠體加工 30 分鐘後，幾乎無排出質變的
膠體，這代表研磨 30 分鐘期間內，因膠體流動性過差而無法更新磨料。材料移除量方面，可
塑度 160 膠體因加工時，無法快速的更新磨料，導致試片表面之材料無法有效移除，加工 30
分鐘後之材料移除量約為 0.025g，則可塑度 80、120 膠體高出許多，分別為 0.171g 及 0.15g。
不同可塑度膠體磨料，拋光後的端面改變情況如圖 8 所示，可塑度 80 的磨料，膠體的流動效
果最為明顯，磨粒的更新效果也最佳；可塑度 120 的磨料，經過 30 分鐘的拋光後，也有明顯
的膠體流動效應；而可塑度 160 的膠體磨料，因為硬度太高、膠體不易變形，因此幾乎看不
到膠體的流動，所以拋光時磨粒的置換也是最差。
3.2.3 膠體磨料比為 1：1.5 對拋光結果之影響
圖 9 為膠體磨料比為 1:1.5 時，與工件表面粗糙度及材料移除量的關係。可塑度 160 之膠
體為本實驗流動性最差之膠體，混合膠體磨料比為 1：1.5 時，無法成功的將膠體磨料混合，
故此組實驗暫不討論。在此實驗中，表面研磨的效果會隨研磨時間增加而變好，表面粗糙度
隨研磨時間增加而逐漸減低，但可塑度 120 時表面粗糙度改變的程度，就沒有可塑度 80 時來
得明顯。可塑度 120 之膠體在研磨 30 分鐘後，其表面粗糙度值約為 0.0621μm；另外可塑度
120 之膠體的材料移除量，隨研磨時間增加而提高。但移除的量不及可塑度 80 的移除量，在
研磨 30 分鐘後，材料移除量約為 0.0345g，移除量並沒有到達一定的程度，所以相對於研磨
之表面粗糙度也並不理想。在研磨過程中利用可塑度 120 之膠體，矽膠磨料比為 1.5 時，因
為膠體可塑度較大，流動性較差，而降低了膠體與磨料結合效果，磨粒的更新效率自然也不
佳，工件的表面粗糙度就無法達到理想的改善效果。
5. 結論
本實驗利用膠體磨料以膠體磁力研磨加工法研拋SKD11特殊鋼，並討論與分析各種參數對
試片表面影響，可歸納幾項結論如下：
1. 使用磁力進行研磨加工可有效的增加拋光效率，且可在短時間內達到較佳的表面粗糙度，
加上膠體作為介質對試片研磨，不只可使拋光效能提高，也大幅降低拋光成本。
2.以可塑度 80 的矽像膠當結合劑，拋光 10 分鐘後，表面粗糙度就迅速降到飽合值，其粗糙
度值可以從 Ra0.6μm 降至 Ra0.031μm，加工效率比其他可塑度的矽橡膠高，由此可知低可
速度的細項膠，很適合用於短時間拋光。
3.矽膠膠體因為可以把磨料有效的包覆在工件上，拋光時加工區域的溫度很容易上升，造成
膠體產生很好的流動性，促使磨粒跟著循環流動，產生磨粒的自銳特性，大大提升膠體磨料
的拋光效率。
4.膠體磨料比越高更能達到較佳之表面粗糙度，但不同可塑度也有不同之飽合點，如可塑度
160之膠體無法成功的混合1.5之磨料比，假使調整適合之膠體與磨料之間的比例，加上膠體
可塑度越高也可達到較好的表面粗度，即可降低磨料使用量，可大幅降低拋光成本。
6.參考文獻
1. 廖榮釗，「磁力研磨內孔加工應用技術」，械工業雜誌，187～194 頁，民國八十五機年
8圖 2 磁力研磨加工機實體圖
圖1 高分子矽膠膠體
(a) Before finishing
(MAF)
(b) 30 minutes finishing
(MAF)
(c) Before finishing
(MFGA)
(d) 30 minutes finishing
(MFGA)
圖 4 不同形式磨料在拋光 30 分鐘後的情況
10
(Silicone gel with
plasticity 80)
(Silicone gel with
plasticity 80)
(c) Before finishing
(Silicone gel with
plasticity 120)
(d) 30 minutes finishing
(Silicone gel with
plasticity 120)
(e) Before finishing
(Silicone gel with
plasticity 160)
(f) 30 minutes finishing
(Silicone gel with
plasticity 120)
圖 8 不同可塑度膠體拋光 30 分鐘後，膠體的變化
圖 9 不同膠體在磨料比 0.5 對拋光結果之比較
出席國際會議心得報告 
單位名稱 機械系 職稱 副教授 姓名 王阿成 
研習名稱 International Conference on Advances in Materials and Processing Technologies 2008 
研習時間 2008 年 11 月 2-5 日 地點 巴林麥納馬市 主辦單位 
National  oil & gas 
authority, Kingdom of 
Bahrain  
尖端材料與製程技術國際會議(International Conference on Advances in Materials 
and Processing Technologies)是在製造加工領域極富盛名之國際會議，第一屆的國際研
討會於 1993 年在愛爾蘭都柏林舉行，距今已有 15 年的歷史，此次會議為第十一屆，
舉辦地點在巴林麥納馬市的 Gulf Hotel，研討會的時間從 11 月 2 日到 11 月 5 日共舉
辦四天，會議在 2 日下午揭幕，由大會主席巴林的石油部長 Adbul Hussia 博士主持，
接著就進行歡迎酒會。由於坐飛機到巴林需要將近十三個小時的時間，在我們到達會
場時，已經是巴林當地的晚上十點，所以無緣參加大會的揭幕典禮。             
這次從台灣來參加會議的人數共有十五人，從台灣科技大學到我們清雲科技大
學，共有十個學校的老師與學生參與，算是蠻龐大的團體，我們在會場報到完畢後隨
即加入研討會的議程。這次的國際研討會，總共有九篇的專題報告論文，其中台灣清
華大學工學院院長賀陳弘教授，以有機分子的蝕刻方式對金屬進行材料的移除，引起
現場很多學者的興趣；這種材料移除的機制，不但可以達到奈米加工的目的，更不會
對環境造成污染，是一個非常環保的加工方式。這次研討會上，大會總共安排八個平
行場次進行論文發表，每個場次都發表 4 到 6 篇的論文，共計有六十三個場次，發表
的論文總共有三百二十三篇。論文的領域含括先進材料、塑性成形、焊接製程、
CAD/CAM、材料移除技術、先進表面處理技術、雷射加工、奈米製程、粉末成行及
相關的製造技術等，是一個包含材料與先進製造技術的國際級研討會參加的人員包含
中東地區的國家、台灣、中國大陸、日本、韓國、馬來西亞、德國、美國、法國、土
耳其、南非、斯洛伐尼亞等二十幾個國家。我這次參與會議除了要發表論文外，同時
也很榮幸的被大會分派為粉末成型會議的主持人，我在會議上所發表的論文題目為
「粉末冶金材料放電加工屑的重新黏回現象探討」，由於先前已經經過幾次的英語口
頭發表訓練，因此已經不會怯場，臨場反應也還算可以，同時也增添了主持會議的經
驗。經由各場次之參與，讓我們可以了解與感受到世界的先進材料與製造加工的發展
趨勢。目前，於全球化生活中，包括交通、通訊與健康相關產業均脫離不了先進材料
與製造成形技術。現代之生產技術更需要先進的製造技術與知識。而台灣在這方面的
產業已經逐漸投入人力與物力，產業的發展已經佔有一定的地位；但和歐美、日本、
南韓等相關產業相比，顯然還做得不夠多，這非常值得我們借鏡與學習。 
由於巴林國家很小，大概只有半個台灣的大，因此我們沒想到巴林會有台灣的辦
Study the re-sticky phenomenon of powder metallurgy debris in the electrical discharge 
machining 
 
Ken-Chuan Cheng¹, A-Cheng Wang², Yan-Cherng Lin
3
 and Jeng-Shen Huang
1
 
 
 
1. Department of Mechanical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University; email: 
kccheng20@gmail.com; jengshen@cycu.edu.tw ABSTRACT 
 
2. Department of Mechanical Engineering, Ching Yun University; email: 
acwang@cyu.edu.tw 
 
3. Department of Mechanical Engineering, Nankai University of Technology; email: 
ycline@nkc.edu.tw   
 
 
 
 
The debris re-adhering on the machining surface will affect the workpiece precision in EDM; 
therefore, the main purpose of this research is to study the re-sticky phenomenon of the powder 
metallurgy (PMM) in EDM. PMM with different melting points from 1450
o
C to 3410
o
C were used 
as EDM materials, the copper and the tungsten were chosen as the electrodes. The polarity in EDM 
was depended on the pole of the electrode. For observing the re-sticky position of the debris, the 
electrode was set no rotation or with 200 rpm rotational speed in EDM. The results showed that the 
melting point of PMM did not exceed 3000
o
C (PMM did not contain tungsten); the debris of PMM 
would not re-stick on the working surface no matter what polarity was used in EDM. However, only 
negative polarity can cause the re-adhesive effect when the melting point of PMM exceeded 3000
o
C. 
The debris would re-stick on any machining position when the electrode was not rotated in EDM. 
However, the debris would adhere on the central of the working area with 200 rpm rotational speed 
of the electrode. 
 
KEYWORDS: Powder metallurgy materials, Re-sticky, Debris, Electrical discharge 
machining 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
PMM is widely applied in the industry because of its excellent properties, such as high hardness, 
high toughness and high strength. Due to these excellent properties, PMM is hard to process by the 
traditional cutting. EDM is a non-traditional method that uses the heat erosion effect to melt and 
vaporize the material from the workpiece. Therefore, only if the materials with electric conduction, 
they all can be manufactured by EDM no matter the mechanical properties of these materials, so it 
is appropriate using EDM to finish the PMM. Part of researches about EDM is discussing the 
effects of the parameters (such as polarity, material or working parameters) on the material removal 
rate (MRR) or the electrode wear rate (EWR) [1-4]. They also investigate the topography and the 
quality of the surface during different EDM parameters. Some studies utilized the statistical method 
PMM 
Tungsten copper 3410 1.35 1.82 
Tungsten  3380 19.3 1.63 
Tungsten carbide 3140 15.5 0.502 
Tantalum 2940 16.65 0.52 
Molybdenum 2617 10.22 1.38 
Fe-Co-Ni alloy 1450 8.23 0.113 
 
2.3 Process 
There were three steps to discuss the re-sticky effect of PMM in EDM. First step was change the 
polarity of the electrode to study why the debris would re-stick on the working surface. Then the 
position of the re-sticky debris would be found with using the rotating or stationary electrode in 
EDM. The last step would be observed the re-sticky effect in the different kinds of PMM. Table 2 is 
the working parameters using in EDM. In all the steps, MRR and micrograph of the re-sticky area 
were two main results that used to investigate the re-sticky phenomenon of PMM. 
 
Table 2 Working parameters of the EDM 
Working 
parameters 
Setting values 
Polarity +, - 
Peak current 6A 
Pulse duration 20s 
Off time 40s 
Gap voltage 40V 
Servo voltage 100V 
Rotational speed 0 rpm, 200 rpm 
 
 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
The re-sticky phenomenon of the PMM in EDM was discussed in the following section. Polarity 
of electrode, kinds of PMM and rotation of the electrode were three variables that used to examine 
whether the debris will re-stick on the surface or not. MRR and the micrograph from SEM were two 
indexes to show the re-sticky effect in EDM. 
 
3.1 Polarity 
 Fig. 1 The effects of the polarities on MRR 
 
  
(a) Regular wear of the tungsten 
electrode in the positive polarity 
(b) Hole wear of the tungsten 
electrode in the negative polarity 
  
(c) Regular wear of the copper 
electrode in the positive polarity 
(d) Hole wear of the copper 
electrode in the negative polarity 
 
Fig. 2 The end surface wear of the electrodes at the different polarities 
 
3.2 Rotational speed 
The re-sticky debris was accumulated in the center of the working area when the electrode had 
the rotational speed of 200 rpm in EDM. Electrode with no rotation was used to investigate the 
re-sticky position of the tungsten carbide debris when the negative polarity was utilized in EDM. 
iron-cobalt-nickel alloy. Fig. 5 illustrates the effects of the polarities of different PMM on MRR. 
The results demonstrated that the positive polarity could produce better MRR than the negative 
polarity in EDM when the melting points of PMM were below 3000
o
C (PMM did not contain 
tungsten). Since the iron-cobalt-nickel alloy had low melting point and low thermal conductivity, so 
MRR was much higher than the molybdenum and the tantalum in positive polarity. However, 
machining process was very unstable in the negative polarity when the iron-cobalt-nickel alloy was 
utilized as material; therefore, MRR of the iron-cobalt-nickel alloy was lower than the other two 
PMM. Fig. 6 shows the machining surface of PMM that the melting points under 3000
o
C. There 
had not any re-sticky debris on these surfaces no matter what kinds of polarities were used. These 
results presented that the re-sticky phenomena were impossible happening in EDM when the 
melting points of PMM were below 3000
o
C. The reason was that the finished debris would be 
easily taken away from the working area when the melting points were under 3000
o
C in EDM. 
Moreover, Fig. 5 also shows that the negative polarity would create more superior MRR than 
the positive polarity with utilizing the melting points of PMM were over 3000
o
C. This is because 
the ionized machining (positive polarity) could not produce high MRR in EDM with the melting 
points of PMM exceeding 3000
o
C. Besides, because of the low melting point and low thermal 
conductivity, the tungsten carbide had higher MRR than the other tungsten alloys in EDM. The 
machining shape of the PMM with melting points over 3000
o
C is presented in Fig. 7. This Fig. 
revealed that no debris re-sticks on the working surfaces when the positive polarity was applied as 
the electrode in EDM. This was because the ionized flow machining of the positive polarity had low 
MRR in EDM, so the debris could be easily taken away from the working area by the dielectric. 
However, only the negative polarities would cause the re-sticky effect in EDM. There had very 
obvious re-sticky debris on the machining surfaces in the Fig. 7(b), 7(d), 7(f) when tungsten, 
tungsten carbide and tungsten copper were used as materials. The reason was that the sintering 
temperatures of PMM were not exceeded 3000
o
C; the PMM powder would be easily dislocated 
when large heat was acted on the PMM. In this study, the machining time of the electronic flow 
(negative polarity) was very short, so the PMM powders could not had enough time to melt or 
vaporize, the dislocate powders producing by heat became the debris and re-stuck on the machining 
surface after EDM. However, cobalt including in the tungsten carbide was easily vaporized or 
melted than the tungsten and carbon, larger amount of the tungsten carbide powders would re-stick 
on the working surface than the other PMM with tungsten after EDM. Fig. 8 reveals the oblique and 
cross-section views of the re-sticky debris on the working surface. Fig. 8(a) showed the re-sticky 
debris of the tungsten carbide was very like a small hill because of the rotating electrode. Height of 
this small hill was 140 m from the cross-section view of Fig. 8(b). 
 
(e) Machined surface of the 
tantalum with the positive 
polarity 
(f) Machined surface of the 
tantalum with the negative 
polarity 
 
Fig. 6 The re-sticky effect of PMM (melting points below 3000
o
C) at different polarity 
 
  
(a) Machined surface of the 
tungsten with the positive 
polarity 
(b) Machined surface of the 
tungsten with the negative 
polarity 
  
(c) Machined surface of the 
tungsten carbide with the 
positive polarity 
(d) Machined surface of the 
tungsten carbide with the 
negative polarity 
  
(e) Machined surface of the 
tungsten copper with the positive 
polarity 
(f) Machined surface of the 
tungsten copper with the 
negative polarity 
 
Fig. 7 The re-sticky effect of PMM (melting points over 3000
o
C) at different polarity 
 
