 2
The study of high quality orientation carbon nanotube for field emission 
display application(3/3) 
Final Report (NSC 99-2221-E-151-015) 
Principal investigator: Tsung-Chieh Cheng1 
Cooperate investigator: Jiann Shieh2 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Kaohsiung University of Applied Science, Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
Department of Materials and Chemical Engineering, National United University, Miaoli, Taiwan 
E-mail: tcchengme@cc.kuas.edu.tw 
Abstract 
The main objectives of these three-year projects is to realize a carbon nanotube field emission display 
module through the novel thin film growth instrument design for well-aligned and high-purity carbon 
nanotubes growth. Our goal accords with what the government promotes in a more cost-effective manner- 
“Two Trillion - Double Stars” Plan. In our first-year project last year, a large-scale and cost-effective 
production of high-quality carbon nanotubes was successfully grown on flexible carbon cloth substrate by our 
designed CVD chamber. These high quality carbon nanotubes were also achieved by using a mixing gas of 
alcohol and NH3 which can suppress the defects on the surface of carbon nanotubes. In order to improve the 
performance of field emission displays, it is important to grow the well aligned CNT and know the field 
emission properties of nanoemitters. In our second-year project this year, we also designed field emission 
measurement instrument for the investigation of the field emission (FE) properties of high-technology 
materials. Field emission measurements were obtained within high vacuum chamber (background pressure 
bellow 10-6 Torr) and the measurements were performed in the characterization system. In final year of our 
project, due to the complexity of field emission measurement, we also want to establish the standard field 
emission measurement process. Moreover, in recent years, as the devices march toward to nano size, the 
classical method is not enough to measure very small area because of quantum effect and screen effect. 
Therefore, in order to obtain the results precisely, this proposal will also develop the fabrication of nano or 
sub-nano tips by setting up the experimental instruments and processing procedures. 
 
Introduction 
 4
without any assistance from patterned mask or catalyst. During the hydrogen plasma etching, the silicon 
substrate was etched selectively by hydrogen ion flux and sputtered off, where the nanowires density was 
mainly controlled by the etching time. 
 
Results and Discussion 
In our studies, first, in order to understand the physical picture of field emission phenomena, the 
field-emission characteristics of a single silicon nano-emitter were investigated by means of experiments and 
simulation models. The emitters array was fabricated by dry etching using an inductively coupled plasma 
(ICP) through a three-step process[2]. A novel experimental measurement technique by SEM with 
nanomotors including the constant voltage and the constant emission modes was developed. In the constant 
voltage mode, we applied a larger voltage (e.g. 400 V) at the tungsten anode, which was greater than the 
expected turn-on voltage. Then, the tungsten probe was controlled by the nanomotor to move at a constant 
speed of 30 nm s− 1 through a longer distance than for the constant emission mode, and we concurrently 
measured the emission current to determine the approximate position where the maximum emission current 
occurs. In the constant emission mode, we moved the tungsten anode through a shorter distance around the 
approximate position of the maximum emission current determined in the constant voltage mode and 
measured the turn-on voltage at each position to find out where the minimum turn-on voltage occurs. By 
combining these two steps, we can precisely determine the ‘right’ position to measure the emission current 
from a single nano-emitter. Note that this novel technique can be adapted easily to measure the emission 
current from other types of nanoscale emitters. Accompanying these measurements, a parallelized 3D PIC 
code using the finite-element method coupled with a ray-tracing module was also developed and applied to 
simulate the field-emission process of single emitter[3]. Figure 1(a) illustrates the steady-state potential 
distribution along with a snapshot of the emitted electrons. At steady state, there were approximately 3000 
electrons in the computational domain. Most of the electrons were emitted from the tip region having very 
high electric field (up to∼50 Vnm− 1). Figure 1(b) shows the comparison between the experimental and 
simulated I–V curves. In figure 1(b), the simulated emission currents for the case where the space–charge 
effect was taken into account compared very well with those observed experimentally; conversely, those 
generated without considering the space–charge effect generally appear much larger than those from the 
 6
field amplification effect. Obviously, a higher electric field would negate the formation of space charge, 
thereby lessening its effect and increasing the threshold current density. Therefore, scaling the emitter radius 
and gate aperture of FE nanotriodes to smaller dimensions will lower the operating voltage and overcome the 
space-charge effects. 
Moreover, the well aligned MWCNTs[6] which were grown by MPCVD was also compared with the 
random MWCNTs which were grown by thermal CVD on the flexible carbon cloth substrate to discuss the 
structure effect of the CNTs’ field emission properties. Figure 4(a),(b) shows the SEM images of these two 
MWCNT samples by MPCVD and thermal CVD. The results indicated that the MWCNTs grown by MPCVD 
(MP-CNTs) are well aligned and more uniform than MWCNTs grown by thermal CVD (T-CNTs). Obviously, 
due to more aligned and uniform CNTs will produce the uniform emission currents through the uniform 
electric field, in our field emission experiments, the field emission propertie of MP-CNTs is better than 
T-CNTs. Besides, in our works, we report a study on two-step surface chemical modifications on MWCNTs 
with the aim of improving the field emission properties of the MWCNTs. In step 1, MWCNTs were modified 
by 14 M HNO3 at 90 ◦C for 12h for the carboxylation of MWCNTs[7], i.e. caps of closed MWCNTs were 
removed, forming an open-ended shape. In step 2, the thiolation of MWCNTs was introduced by a method 
based on the pre-formation of carboxylic bonds of MWCNTs. In this study, the thiolated MP-CNTs depict the 
lowest turn-on field of 0.2 Vμm− 1 and threshold field of 1.25 Vμm− 1, which are defined as the value of 
macroscopic fields producing the emission current density of 10 μAcm−2 and 1 mAcm−2, respectively.  
According to our previous studies, we found that how to grow the well aligned field emitters is an 
important key factor for field emission devices but it is hard to form the well aligned uniform field emitters 
through the “growth” method. For this reason, we demonstrate a new one-step approach to the maskless 
fabrication of silicon nanowires through hydrogen plasma etching in the absence of a catalyst as shown in 
Fig.4(c)[8]. The results indicate that during hydrogen plasma etching the silicon substrate was sputtered off 
and the density of nanowires decreased with increasing the etching time, as a result of some nanowires 
bundling together, while their lengths increased. Our results indicate that the field emission properties are 
improved upon increasing the etching time; this process sharpens the nanowires’ geometry and lowers their 
work function. We hope that these highly uniform with respect to length, diameter, and distribution nanowires 
display great potential for application within many field emission nanoelectronics devices. 
 8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. (a) Potential distribution along with snapshot of electrons in the exploded view near the 
nano-emitter tip and (b) Comparison of the experimental and simulated current–voltage curves 
(work function = 4.5 eV). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Schematic representations of (a) FE microtriodes possessing microtips as emitters, (b) FE 
nanotriodes possessing low-dimensional nanomaterials as emitters and (c) the ball-in-sphere model. 
 
 10
[Note] Self Evaluation 
From NSC founding for these three-year projects, we developed two instruments, published 6 SCI papers 
and 10 conference papers (3 times are invited talks) as following: 
 
(1) Journals: 
1. F. T. Chuang, P. Y. Chen, T. C. Cheng, B. J. Lee, “Synthesis and field emission properties of thiolated 
carbon nanotubes on a flexible carbon cloth substrate”, Nanotechnology 18, 395702 (2007). (SCI: 
3.310) 
2. P. Y. Chen, T. C. Cheng*, J. H. Tsai, and Y. L. Shao, “Space charge effects in field emission 
nanodevices”, Nanotechnology 20, 40, 405202(2009). (SCI:3.446) 
3. T. C. Cheng, C. H. Cheng*, Z. Z. Huang, and G. C. Liao,” Development of an energy-saving module 
via combination of solar cells and thermoelectric coolers for green building applications”, Energy 36 
133-140 (2011). (SCI:2.952) 
4. P. Y. Chen*, T. C. Cheng*, J. Shieh, and Y. C. Luo, “Nanomanipulation of field emission measurement 
for vacuum nanodiodes based on uniform silicon nanowire emitters”, Applied Physics Letters 98 
163106 (2011). (SCI:3.554) 
5. T. C. Cheng*, W. S. Lin, and S. Y. Wu, “Improved Field Emission Properties of Opened Carboxylated 
Multiwall Carbon Nanotubes on Flexible Carbon Cloth Substrate” have been accepted by Advance 
Science Letters. (SCI:1.253) 
6. T. C. Cheng, T. H. Chen*, T. H. Fang, and T. U. Ye, “The Temperature Effect of Carbon Nanotubes 
Grown on Flexible Substrate by Atmospheric Thermal CVD” have been accepted by Advance Science 
Letters. (SCI:1.253) 
7. 鄭宗杰、林毅、紹雲龍、楊忠諺,＂奈米場發射元件之空間電荷效應研究＂, 奈米通訊, 17 卷, 第
一期 p.47 (2010). 
 
(2) Conference papers: 
1. P. Y. Chen, T. C. Cheng*, F. T. Chuang, J. S. Wu, H. L. Chen, B. J. Lee and E. Jones, ”The influence of 
geometry effect for field emission properties of Multiwall Carbon Nanotubes”, AM-FPD 
conferences,Japan,P-7 (2007). 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Field emission measurement equipment: 
 
    
 
 
項目 規格 
溫度 23~900oC 
壓力 760 torr ~ 5*10-3torr 
氣體 NH4 0~100 sccm 
N2 0~400 sccm 
Ar 0~400 sccm 
C2H5OH 0~200 sccm 
電漿 DC 300KW 
19th International Symposium on the Photophysics and Photochemistry of 
Coordination Compounds 報告 
 
服務機關: 國立高雄應用科技大學機械工程系 
出國人: 鄭宗杰 
職稱: 助理教授 
出國地點: 法國、史特拉斯堡 
出國時間: 7/3~ 7/7, 2011 
 
一、目的： 
 
         參加 19th International Symposium on the Photophysics and Photochemistry of 
Coordination Compounds 以了解全世界在最先進發光奈米材料技術的發展趨勢，作為本實
驗室在半導體最新之製程技術用於下世代顯示元件開發的參考與借鏡。 
 
         19th International Symposium on the Photophysics and Photochemistry of 
Coordination Compounds 是結合歐洲表面科學、化學合成科技與材料研究，並由多家廠商
贊助的大型國際會議。其中聚焦最多的光電奈米材料合成與檢測方面的研究與開發則與本
實驗室的發展方向相當接近，所以藉著此次參加會議的心得，希望能夠為本實驗室未來的
研究方向提供最先進的指標。本次會議內容集中在發光奈米材料(nano materials)與光學檢
測(nano characterization)相關的研究，包括在製程整合的研究亦有相當不錯的論文發表，相
當值得我們學習，與會心得則略述於後。 
 
19th International Symposium on the Photophysics and Photochemistry of Coordination 
Compounds 在法國、史特拉斯堡舉行。全世界各大廠商、大學、研究機構從事與光學功能
性材料技術相關之研究人員踴躍出席，今年與會的人數約超過五百人。會議的重點集中在
     會議內容之重點之一是以光電奈米材料製備為主，利用該技術或結合光譜技術即可產
生出一些令人耳目一新的應用；當天就不同的議題而有數場邀請演講，報告中將節錄兩場
邀請演講於後： 
 
1、 由美國Northwestern University的 J.-P. Sauvage教授被大會邀請主講的Multicomponent 
transition metal complexes: From charge separation to light driven molecular machines。其
演講內容說明如何利用光激發來組成相關功能性分子，包含如何合成相關材料與轉化
分子結構並得到相關光學性能等等，相關照片如下圖所示。 
 
2、 由日本東京大學的 S. Kitagawa 教授主講的 Soft Porous Coordination Polymers Having 
Optical Properties。他是利用壓印技術與相關化學合成技術製作出相關光電功能性材
料，並利用控制孔洞大小與不同聚合物成分控制出具有固定波段的光電材料，以作為
來相關顯示用途。 
三、心得 
 
     參加這次會議的主要目的是想瞭解目前世界上光電檢測、光電顯示器方面的研究，
因此，舉凡與該技術有關的演講與壁報解說都盡可能參加。藉由聆聽別人的演講內容，
獲得了一些在光電材料製備與相關製程上的新穎想法。包括以膠體微影(Colloid 
lithography)技術製作光電奈米功能性材料、利用相關光激發表面電漿共振應用於生醫
領域尤其令人印象深刻。此外，改變奈米結構的尺寸與形狀造成吸收峰位置的偏移，亦
啟發了新的應用思考。其中壁報展覽時比較吸引我的是外籍研究人員利用橢偏儀作為表
面電漿共振檢測設備以及各種利用光電檢測偵測生物薄膜的技術，其原理與方法已用數
位相機拍攝，期能作為本實驗室相關研究的參考。 
 
四、建議事項 
   在這次會議當中經由聆聽演講、閱讀研究成果壁報，以及與國外專家的交流中，瞭
解目前微影以及奈米製作技術的最新進展，獲益良多，也獲得許多新的想法，對本計畫
有相當大的助益。此外與會的學術機構所發表的論文的特色是作者利用各種零組件搭配
實驗室常見的儀器，即可產生新的功能與應用，如此的想法有助於本人研究發展的方向。
並期望在未來應加強不同研究領域的交流，如此才能激盪出創新的研究課題。 
 
參 加 19th International Symposium on the Photophysics and Photochemistry of 
Coordination Compounds，收穫良多，心得如上所述。希望有機會能再次參加如此重要之國
際會議。最後附上這次研討會論文摘要一份。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
1. H. Mousazadeh et al., Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 13 (2009) 1800–1818. 
2. R. Walraven, Solar Energy 20 (1977) 393–397. 
 
Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鄭宗杰 計畫編號：99-2221-E-151-015- 
計畫名稱：高品質定向奈米碳管場發射顯示器模組之實現研究-設計、分析與模組化(III) 
量化 
成果項目 
實際已達
成數（被接
受或已發
表） 
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位
備註（質化說明：如數
個計畫共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之 封 面 故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 2 2 100%  
國內 論文著作 
研討會論文 4 2 200% 
篇 
1.J. Y. Yang, T. C. 
Cheng, C. W. Hsu*, J. S. 
Wu and Y. L. Shao, ’A 
Study of Annealing 
Temperature Effect for 
ZnO Thin Film Grown on 
Glass Substrate Using 
Reactive Magnetron 
Sputtering’, Symposium 
on Nano device 
Technology (SNDT), 
Hsin-Chu, Taiwan, NF-32, 
May 4-5, (2010). 
2.鄭金祥、王麒嘉、林毅、
朱胤福、施順榮、張克勤、
蘇恭賢、鄭宗杰*, ’雙軸
聚光型太陽追蹤系統應用
於史特靈引擎加熱端之聚
焦集熱研究’, 中華民國
力學學會第三十四屆全國
力學會議,雲林, I2028, 
19-20 Nov. (2010).
of gold nanoparticles’, 
Optic Express, 19 
4768-4776 (2011). 
(SCI:3.278) 
4. P. Y. Chen*, T. C. 
Cheng*, J. Shieh, and Y. 
C. 
Luo, ’Nanomanipulation 
of field emission 
measurement for vacuum 
nanodiodes based on 
uniform silicon nanowire 
emitters’, Applied 
Physics Letters 98 
163106 (2011). 
(SCI:3.554) 
 
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 100% 
1.T. C. Cheng*,’ The 
Field Emitters' design 
and fabrication of field 
emission devices’, The 
International 
Conference on Recent 
Trends in Materials 
Science and 
Technology(ICMST), 
invited speaker (2010).
1.J. Y. Yang, M. H. Lin, 
S. T. Choi, W. C. Jhong, 
T. C. Cheng, L. Tsai and 
W. H. Lin, ’The 
Characteristics and 
Growth Mechanism of 
Bi2Te3 Thin Film grown on 
ITO Glass Substrate’ 
3rd International 
Congress on Ceramics 
(ICC3), Osaka, Japan, 
Nov. 14-18 (2010). 
 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
