lung cancer cell dataset, and the results showed that iScore could 
help to confirm Mascot’s phosphorylation site assignments with low 
MD-score. Currently, we are writing up the results for future journal 
publication, and will provide a stand-alone system for researchers to 
download and use. 
 
  1
一、中文摘要 
後轉譯修飾在真核細胞內的蛋白質合成，會造成蛋白質的不同功能；其中磷酸化修飾與
疾病相關的重要修飾。研究者大多利用 Mascot 進行磷酸化蛋白質鑑定，並接受其所鑑
定高信心度的 peptide 序列；但有不小比例的鑑定第一名和第二名結果具相同序列但不
同磷酸化位置，然而磷酸化位置的確定是磷酸化蛋白質體學裡很重要的一環。文獻中已
報導可利用 Mascot 圖譜鑑定序列結果前兩名分數的差值，也就是 MD-score 來判斷磷酸
化位置之可信度；也就是當差值越高表示第一名的可信度相對越高。然而，那些具有低
MD-score 的圖譜也可能因為誤判而被研究者所忽略。因此，我們在此計畫中提出一個
名為 iScore 的計分方法來輔助 Mascot 蛋白質磷酸化位置結果的再次鑑定，特別是針對
那些低 MD-score 的圖譜，期望能利用不同的圖譜特徵來確認磷酸化位置；但 iScore 並
不必侷限於 Mascot 的搜尋結果，也支援其他蛋白質鑑定軟體。我們首先利用一組已知
磷酸化位址的標準品(14 synthetic phosphopeptides) 來評估 iScore 的分析結果，結果顯
示，iScore 能有效輔助 Mascot 的磷酸化定址結果，尤其對於那些低 MD-score 圖譜來說，
由原本 Mascot 的 67.3%正確率提升到 81.1%。另外，我們也利用一組在人類肺癌細胞
上的大規模實驗數據來驗證，iScore 確實能有助確認蛋白質磷酸化位置的結果。目前我
們正擬將計畫結果撰寫論文，發表於期刊，並提供軟體供研究使用。 
 
關鍵詞: 蛋白質磷酸化、質譜儀、磷酸化位置、生物資訊 
 
  3
三、研究成果報告 
Introduction 
Protein phosphorylation is the addition of a phosphate group PO4 to a protein and regarded as 
one of the most important post-translational modifications (PTMs) in higher organisms [1]. It 
has been estimated that about 30% or more of eukaryotic proteins are phosphorylated during 
various biological processes [2]. Database search engines, e.g., Mascot [3] and Sequest [4], 
are usually applied to identify large-scale phosphopeptide and phosphoproteins. In general, a 
top-hit peptide receiving Mascot delta score (MD-score), i.e., the difference between top-hit 
score and the next best score, larger than 10 is regarded as a confident identification [5]. 
Phosphorylation site assignment remains a challenge due to several possible reasons. First, 
serine- and threonine-phosphorylation sites are labile during MS/MS. In the collision-induced 
dissociation (CID) gas phase fragmentation of peptide, a β-elimination reaction would 
result in neutral loss of H3PO4 (-98 Da) from phosphorylated serine and threonine, but not 
from tyrosine [6]. Second, an ambiguity in site localization may be caused by the confusion 
between neutral loss of H3PO4 (-98 Da) from phosphorylated residue and H2O water loss (-18 
Da) from non-phosphorylated fragment containing serine or threonine residues. 
 Various methods have been proposed to automatically validate the site assignment from 
database search results. Most of the methods use the sequence identified by the search engine 
for site validation. For each candidate site or combination of sites, theoretical MS/MS 
spectrum is generated and a probability-based scoring on matched site-determining ions is 
calculated. The site assignment is determined by the one receiving the highest score. Olsen 
and Mann [7] proposed a probability based score for phosphorylation site assignment, namely 
the localization post-translational modification score (PTM score). The algorithm of PTM 
score makes use of the four most intense fragment ions per 100 m/z unit in an MS2 or MS3 
spectrum to diagnose the presence of fragment ions for the phosphorylation site assignment. 
And, the phosphorylation site assignment is determined by the one receiving the highest score. 
MSQuant [8] and PhosCalc [9] also incorporate the PTM score to validate phosphorylation 
site assignment of the given phosphopeptide hits identified by Mascot and Sequest, 
respectively. 
AScore [10] is a popular statistical scoring approach; however, it is restricted to Sequest 
search results. AScore calculates cumulative bionomial probability by using the number of all 
predicted b- and y-type ions for the identified phosphopeptide sequence from Sequest and the 
number of all matched ions. These matched ions are the ions that top k (k = 1 to 10) 
most-intense peaks per window of 100 m/z units matched to the predicted b- and y-type ions 
without considering neutral loss of phosphate group from phosphoSerine and 
phosphoThreonine. And, the best peak depth k is selected to calculate the Ascore between the 
two highest-scoring site locations by using only site-determining b- and y-type ions. SLoMo 
  5
Step 1: Constructing a theoretical MS/MS spectrum corresponding to the candidate site(s). 
Step 2: Scoring on the matched ions. 
The experimental spectrum is matched against the theoretical spectrum. A peak in the 
experimental spectrum is matched a theoretical ion if the m/z difference within the 
user-defined m/z tolerance. To evaluate how observed peaks are matched against a theoretical 
spectrum, we define two types of score for matched ions, fragment ion score and sequential 
fragment pattern score. First, the fragment ion score of an experimental spectrum with 
respect to a theoretical spectrum is calculated by the sum of all matched ion scores. The 
matched ion score is defined as the ratio of difference between the observed and theoretical 
m/z over the specified m/z tolerance multiplied by an ion-type weight. Second, iScore 
considers a series of at least three matched b- or y-related ions with maximal length which is 
called a sequential fragment pattern. A sequential fragment pattern score is the sum over the 
fragment ion scores of maximal sequential series of ions. The final score, called iScore, is a 
normalized weighted sum of fragment ion score and sequential fragment pattern score. 
 After calculating iScore for all candidate site(s), the phosphorylation site assignment is 
determined by the one receiving the highest score. Moreover, iScore reports a confidence 
measurement for site assignment, called delta iScore, which is defined as the difference 
between the top 1 and 2 iScore values of phosphorylation site locations. A higher delta iScore 
represents a higher confidence for top 1 site assignment. 
 
Results 
iScore’s performance evaluation on a synthetic phosphorylation dataset 
We used an experiment on the 14 synthetic phosphopeptides dataset, abbreviated as STD-14P, 
to evaluate iScore’s accuracy and improvement on Mascot unconfident phosphorylation site 
assignment with MD-score less than 10. The STD-14P dataset contains 12583 MS/MS scans 
which were searched by Mascot against a curated database consisting of the 14 synthetic 
phosphopeptides and IPI Bovine database (29384 protein sequences). Mascot identified 
10087 scans with ion score above 0; among them, 2155 scans were identified to the 14 
synthetic peptides. Since only 394 scans passed the Mascot suggested identity score 28, we 
used the total 2155 scans with ion score above 0 for performance evaluation. iScore correctly 
assigned phosphorylation sites of 1695 scans with 78.7% accuracy, comparable to Mascot’s 
73.4% accuracy with correct site assignment on 1581 scans.  
It is reported in [5] that MS/MS scans with MD-score at least 10 generally have correct 
phosphorylation site assignment. We divided the 2155 scans into confident and unconfident 
assignment sets, which have 401 and 1754 scans with MD-score at least and below 10, 
  7
 
Figure 2. The MD-score and delta iScore distribution for correctness of Mascot and iScore 
site assignments on the STD-14P dataset. (A) both correct hits by Mascot and iScore, (B) 
Mascot correct hit and iScore incorrect hits, (C) Mascot incorrect hit and iScore correct hits, 
and (D) both incorrect hits by Mascot and iScore. 
Verification of phosphorylation site assignment on a large-scale lung cancer cell dataset 
In addition to the synthetic dataset, we also tested iScore performance on a human lung 
cancer dataset. In this dataset, 44563 MS/MS scans were generated from 15 runs and 
combined to search against the IPI Human database (68161 protein sequences) by Mascot. It 
confidently identified 12437 scans, passing the suggested ion score threshold 39, that were 
associated with 1547 peptide sequences (954 proteins). Among these scans, 11419 hits were 
identified as phosphorylated peptides corresponding to 1396 phosphopeptides in 895 
phosphorylated proteins. Since the phosphorylation sites of a large-scale dataset are generally 
unknown, we propose an analysis measure to verify site assignment. This measure was tested 
on the 14P dataset and the results matched our expectation. Since this study has not been 
published, we only omit the details in this short report for the one-year project. The results 
show that iScore could confirm site assignments about 99.7% and 55.5% of Mascot’s 
confident localization hits and low-confidence localization hits, respectively. 
Conclusion 
Mascot is widely used protein identification system. and to our knowledge no system has 
been developed to improve Mascot’s phosphorylatio site assignment though methods have 
been available. But for the other famous identification tool Sequest, AScore has been 
(A)  (B) 
(C)  (D) 
  9
[12] Ruttenberg, B.E., Pisitkun, T., Knepper, M.A., Hoffert, J.D., “PhosphoScore: an open-source 
phosphorylation site assignment tool for MSn data,” J. Proteome Res., 7, 3054–3059, 2008. 
[13] Martin, D. M.A., Nett, I. R.E., Vandermoere, F., Barber, J.D., Morrice, N.A., Ferguson, M. A.J., “Prophossi: 
automating expert validation of phosphopeptide–spectrum matches from tandem mass spectrometry,” 
Bioinformatics, 26(17), 2153–2159, 2010. 
表 Y04 
 
  由本次 ISMB/ECCB 的議程中不難看出，目前計算生物學家想要解決的熱門問題
是，有鑑於 DNA Sequencing 的成本逐漸降低，如何有效處理越來越龐大的資料，並試
圖從如此龐大的資料中找出和各種疾病的關聯性，將研究成果應用於臨床醫學，進一步
實現個人化醫療的目標。一位 keynote 演講者就以"Challenges for Bioinformatics in 
Personalized Cancer Medicine"為題，提出了實現此目標所面臨的四大挑戰，包括
Processing Large-Scale Robust Genomic Data、Interpretation Of The Functional Effect And 
The Impact Of Genomic Variation、Integrating Systems And Data To Capture Complexity 以
及 Making It All Clinically Relevant。此外在 proceeding 和 poster session 中更有許多團隊
針對 high-throughput sequencing data 提出新的演算法或分析方法，使本項議題成為本次
會議的焦點之一。 
 
  在結構生物資訊學(Structural Bioinformatics)方面，包括 RNA sequence-structure 
relationship modeling、protein sequence alignment and structure comparison、 epitope 
prediction 等等的主題都受到關注。在此當中我們對於 University of Oxford 利用
environment specific substitution tables來改善membrane protein alignment的發表相當感興
趣，因為我們相信這樣的 features 也可以應用在我們正在研究的 membrane protein lipid 
exposure prediction 問題上。經過與這篇論文的作者討論之後，他們很樂意分享成果。此
外我們也在 poster session中發現 alpha-helical membrane protein kinked site prediction的競
爭者，儘管和我們的方法不盡相同，但也值得參考。另外值得一提的是代謝體學
(Metabolomics)與計算生物學的關係也越來越密切，2 篇 proceeding 分別在探討 metabolic 
network models 以及 metabolite-transcript co-responses，此外有近 50 篇的 poster 與代謝體
學有直接或間接相關，值得留心發展狀況。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
 
四、建議 
 
  由於會議的 poster 數量相當龐大，即便事先找出感興趣的主題再前往觀看，與 poster
作者討論的時間仍相當不足。建議主辦單位延長"Poster Session with Authors"的時間。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
會議議程 1 本 
會議論文(電子檔) 
 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：宋定懿 計畫編號：99-2221-E-001-018- 
計畫名稱：質譜儀資料的後轉譯修飾自動分析 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 0%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
