transition from the splay configuration to the bend 
configuration can be effectively reduced. The first 
dual alignment design consisted of a horizontal 
alignment polyimide (PI) and a patterned vertical 
alignment liquid crystal polymer (LCP). Three 
patterning masks have been designed for the 
photolithography process. The pretilt angles were 
demonstrated to be increased to 34° for the triangle 
lattice array-patterned cells, 31° for the square 
lattice array-patterned cells, and 24° for the 
honeycomb lattice array-patterned cells. The 
effective control over the pretilt angle could 
improve the response time to less than 2 ms when the 
voltage was ramped up to 5.5 V for the OCB mode 
liquid crystal devices. 
 
 In this project, we will continue to increase the 
nucleation sites and control the pretilt angles by 
the novel polymer micro- and nano-patterned alignment 
structures.  
A. To study the advanced technologies to increase 
nucleation sites and the corresponding theoretical 
mechanisms and kinetics. 
B. To design novel polymer micro- and nano-patterned 
alignment structures, using excimer laser, plasma, 
ion beam energy, etc. for increasing nucleation 
sites.  
C. To assemble unique liquid crystal cells for 
material structure characterization, surface 
analysis, liquid crystal pretilt angle, display 
evaluation, response time, and electro-optical 
responses. 
D. To establish advanced pretilt angle control 
research analysis, and to propose suitable alignment 
structures, liquid crystals, and liquid crystal 
polymers. 
E. To develop novel functional alignment film 
structures, and to explore polymer self-assembly 
technologies for unique micro and nano interface 
structures, for stable pretilt angle principles. 
F. To complete the software simulation of liquid 
crystal for the novel processes and experimental 
  
Nucleation and Transition in Optically-Compensated-Bend Liquid Crystal Displays 
 
NSC100-2221-E182-014 
 
Y. D. Chen, C. C. Huang, H. W. Chien, G. M. Wu* 
Institute of Electro-Optical Engineering, Chang Gung University, Kweisan, Taoyuan, Taiwan R.O.C. 
(長庚大學光電工程研究所) 
*E-mail: wu@mail.cgu.edu.tw 
Abstract 
Optically compensated bend mode (OCB-mode) LCD 
is promising for next generation displays. Reduction in 
warm-up time of liquid crystal molecules are desired to 
improve the disadvantages brought forth by the OCB mode 
displays. The present technique is a useful approach to 
reduce the splay-to-bend transformation time by 
atmospheric pressure plasma beam treatments. The novel 
process method shortened the overall transition time. We 
proved that the number of the nucleation sites of liquid 
crystal cell has increased more than 6 times and 45%~74% 
reduction in warm-up time than the control sample. We 
maintained the original optical properties and response 
time about 5 ms for the OCB mode LCD. 
 
KEYWORDS: Liquid crystal display, Transition time, 
OCB, Warm-up time, Nucleation 
 
1. Introduction 
Since liquid crystal devices are characterized by low 
driving voltage, low power consumption, light weight, low 
production cost, no radiation. so, it has been broadly 
applied to TV set and monitor that is more popular than the 
traditional CRT (Cathode Ray Tube) monitor. However, 
conventional TN-mode LCD have a viewing angle problem 
that results in degradation of the contrast ratio or gray scale 
inversion, and they are unsuitable for displaying motion 
pictures because of their slow response speed. OCB-mode 
displays have been introduced as electro-optical binary 
switching devices that offer a wide viewing angle and fast 
response. The present work achieved stable gray scale by 
introducing a bias voltage and wider viewing angle by 
optical compensation using a biaxial-retardation film. 
Thereby, people start focusing on optically compensated 
bend (OCB) [1-3]. The pi-cell is constructed using a pair of 
substrates rubbed in parallel directions., It is predicated it 
will be widely applied to optical devices requiring quick 
response. It has a fast response times and a wide viewing 
angle but also remains good photoelectric properties at low 
temperatures. The response time is 10 faster times than the 
traditional TN-LCD. However, OCB-mode requires a 
transition of the liquid crystal from an initial splay state to 
bend state configuration before its operation. It needs to 
apply a higher voltage or it takes a long warm-up time to 
transform to the bend state as shown in Fig. 1. This is a 
disadvantage of the OCB-mode displays. One of most 
important our aims is the reduction in warm-up time. A 
splay to bend transition in the OCB-cell is produced in two 
steps (1) formation of bend nuclei and growth. However, 
there are some problems in creating the transition; 
nucleation is uncertain, and the transition area growths 
slowly [4,5]. The purpose of this study is to found a 
method of creating the transition nucleus. 
In earlier studies, a small dark region represents an 
irregularity that occurred in the LC alignment probably due 
to the existence of a spacer. This region acted as a bend 
nucleus [6]. The number of transition nucleus accelerated 
the efficiency of bend transition in OCB. In order to realize 
a shorter transition time, we successful induced the partial 
liquid crystal arrangement irregularity and increase in the 
number of transition nucleus sites for shortening the overall 
transition time by atmospheric pressure plasma beam to 
bombard PI film. The pi-cell is constructed by a pair of 
substrates rubbed in parallel angle [7,8]. 
 
2. Experimental 
The sample of the experiment was a glass plate with 
an ITO membrane sputtered on the surface. Taking this 
structure as the substrate, spread a layer of horizontal 
  
be compared with the control sample by atmospheric 
pressure plasma beam to bombard PI film. 
The number of transition nucleus accelerated the 
efficiency of bend transition and to reduce the splay to 
bend transition time in OCB. For this reason we to generate 
the bend nuclei efficiently by atmospheric pressure plasma 
beam to bombard PI film. The data is summarized in Table 
2 the average number of bend nucleus of liquid crystal cell 
has increased more than 6 times from 0 to 6 sec (Fig. 4). 
The relationships between the transmittance and the 
applied voltage, V–T curves, were measured for each 
sample cell. A square wave voltage with a frequency of 1 
kHz was applied. The change rate of applied voltage was 
0.1 V/sec. The electro-optical properties of the cells were 
measured with a 632.8 nm He-Ne laser. The transmission 
axis was set at an angle of 45° with respect to the rubbing 
direction of the sample cell. Fig 5 show experimental 
results of the voltage-dependent transmittance of a pi-cell 
before and after atmospheric pressure plasma treatments 
(the power intensity is 700 W, the interval from 
atmospheric pressure plasma source is 25 mm). The V-T 
curve with an increase in applied voltage . It can be seen 
that at the initial state of splay alignment and the initial 
state is transformed to the bend state in that critical voltage 
at 2.0 V. The transition from the bright state (the maximum 
transmittance) to the dark state (the minimum 
transmittance) appears in the pi-cell with an increase in 
applied voltage. 
The different initial transmittance when low voltage is 
applied, we considered causes of phase retardation as 
shown in Table 3. The light transmittance (T) of the 
crossed polarizer can be written as 
T = 1/2‧{sin 2(2φ)．sin2 (δ/ 2)}, (1) 
where φ are the angle between the long axis of liquid 
crystal molecules and the transmission axis of polarizer. δ 
is exact indicated as the phase retardation. When the 
transmission axis was set at an angle of 45°, can be 
achieved the brightest state. For the above reasons, 
transmittance (T) is proportional to phase retardation. In 
the calculation with eq. (1), The transmittance of OCB cell 
before and after atmospheric pressure plasma treatments 
decrease as follows: Td > Te > Tc > Tb > Ta. The results 
are the same with the different initial transmittance of V–T 
curves. Furthermore, the data of  pretilt angle are nearly 
the same before and after atmospheric pressure plasma 
treatments. Therefore, we infer that it would be partial high 
pre-tilt angle after atmospheric pressure plasma treatments. 
 
4. Conclusion 
In this experiment, we successfully induced the partial 
liquid crystal arrangement irregularity and increase in the 
number of transition nucleus sites for shortening the 
warm-up time by atmospheric pressure plasma beam to 
bombard PI film. We proved that the number of the   
bend nucleus of liquid crystal cell has increased more than 
6 times and 45%~74% reduction in warm-up time than the 
control sample. We maintained the original optical 
properties and response time about 5 ms for the OCB mode 
LCD. 
 
Acknowledgements 
This work was supported in part by the National 
Science Council. 
 
References 
[1]P. J. Bos and J. A. Rahman , 1993 SID Int. Symp. Dig. 
Tech. Papers, P.273 
[2]Y.Yamaguchi,T.Miyashita and T.Uchida, 1993 SID Int. 
Symp.Dig. Tech. Papers, P.277. 
[3] T. Miyashita and T. Uchida, IEICE Trans.  
Electron Vol.E79-C.No.8 pp.1076-1082 , 1996. 
[4]Fumitaka Ogasawara,  Ken Kuboki, Kazuhiro Wako, 
Tatsuo Uchida, and Atsushi Yoshizawa Japanese Journal 
of Applied Physics 48 (2009).  
[5]F. Ogasawara, K. Kuboki, K. Wako, T. Uchida, A. 
Yoshizawa Proceedings of the 15th International Display 
Workshops, 425-428,(2008). 
[6]Yuko Kizu, Ray Hasegawa, Yukio Kizaki, Isao 
Amemiya, and Shuichi Uchikoga SID Symposium 
Digest of Technical Papers   Volume 39, Issue 1, pp. 
28-31 (2008). 
[7]Chi-Yen Huang, Ri-Xin Fung, and Ying-Ging Lin 
Japanese Journal of Applied Physics Volume 46, Issue 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           100 年 10 月 23 日 
報告人姓名 吳國梅 服務機構 
及職稱 
長庚大學 
教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2011.9.12-2011.9.16 
Moscow, Russia 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 NSC 100-2221-E182-014 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) NGC Nano & Giga 電子光電與再生能源科技研討會 
 (英文) Nano and Giga Challenges in Electronics, Photonics and Renewable 
Energy NGC2011 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 高性能鹼性固態高分子電解質鋅空氣燃料電池研究 
 (英文) High performance alkaline solid polymer electrolyte zinc-air Fuel cells 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
 
 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
 
 
 
四、建議 
 
 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
 
 
六、其他 
 
 
 
   
 
附件三
 
表 Y04 
主題的研討，共同發表論文三篇： 
(1) High Performance Alkaline Solid Polymer Electrolyte Zinc-air Fuel Cells  
(2) High Efficiency Organic White-Light-Emitting Devices with Dual 
Electrophosphorescent Emitting Layers 
(3) Improved Silicon Solar Cell Efficiency by Patterned Polymer Coating Structures 
 
(二) 與會心得： 
 大會主題演講，邀請芬蘭 Aalto University 的 Prof. Tapio Ala–Nissila 專題報告
Modeling Micron Scale Patterning of Thin Films，針對薄膜圖形化發展願景進行討
論，法國The French Aerospace Lab的 Dr. Brigitte Attal-Tretout 介紹Applications of 
Carbon Nanotubes: The Benefit of Sorting from High Performance Gas Sensors to 
Light Detectors，以及俄羅斯Photochemistry Center的 Prof. Alexander Bagaturyants
探討Atomistic Multiscale Simulation of Nanostructured Materials for Photonic 
Applications。下午的主要演講有美國Hewlett Packard Laboratories的 Dr. Alex 
Bratkovski專題報告Plasmonics for Future Integrated Ultrafast Photonics and 
Sensors，美國Arizona State University的 Prof. Nikolai Faleev介紹Crystal Defects in 
Epitaxial Structures and their Impact on Physical Properties of Photoconverters，以及
日本University of Tokyo的 Prof. Jun-ichi Fujisawa探討Novel Organic Photovoltaics 
using Surface Complexes of TiO2 and TCNX Compounds，美國Arizona State 
University的 Prof. Stephen Goodnick演講報告Ultrafast Carrier Dynamics and Third 
Generation Photovoltaics ，美國Ohio University的 Prof. Alexander Govorov演講報
表 Y04 
• Nanostructured Materials for Solar Energy Conversion 
• Nanosensors: Science and Technology 
• Non-Volatile Memory Devices at the Nano Scale 
• Novel Carbon Materials in Optics, Electronics and Photovoltaics 
• Organic Materials and Devices 
 
(三) 考察參觀活動： 
 主辦單位有安排參訪位在 Zelenograd 的Moscow Institute for Electronics 
Technology ，介紹綠化城市與工業教育結合，部分研討會活動並在該處進行。 
 
(四) 建議: 
    近年來奈米科技與電子光電再生能源技術應用領域蓬勃發展，有許多新的
觀念被開發出來，國內業界及學研主導單位可利用景氣循環有利時機，與國際
大廠及學研界建立合作關係以導入新技術或切入新市場，學校單位可配合多培
育相關專業人才。 
 
(五) 攜回資料名稱及內容： 
 此次參加研討會，攜回資料有研討會論文集、相關研討會介紹資料、廠商設
備產品簡介目錄一批。 
 
表 Y04 
論文摘要(二) 
High Efficiency Organic White-Light-Emitting Devices with Dual Electro- 
phosphorescent Emitting Layers 
 
H. H. Lin, J. C. Kuo, K. Y. Cheng, G. M. Wu, K. N. Tu 
 
Organic white-light-emitting devices have received much attention in the last 
decade due to their potential applications in solid-state lightings and as back-light 
sources for liquid crystal displays. In this report, we have prepared and characterized 
high efficiency electrophosphorescent white-light-emitting devices possessing the 
dual emitting layers. The novel device architecture contained an effective host 
material tris[4-(9-phenylfluoren-9-yl)phenyl]amine (TFTPA), doped with iridium 
complex: blue-light-emitting bis[(4,6-difluorophenyl)-pyridinato-N,C2’](picolinate) 
iridium(III) (FIrpic) and a red-light-emitting osmium phosphor [(Os(bpftz); bpftz = 
3-trifluoromethyl-5-(4-tert-butyl-2-pyridyl)triazolate] [Os(bpftz)2(PPh2Me)2] in the 
different emitting layers, respectively. The device exhibited an intense white light 
emission with the Commission Internationale de l’Eclairage coordinates (CIE) of 
(0.34, 0.38). The device efficiency reached 25 cd/A (23 lm/W) and a maximum 
brightness of 4×105 cd/m2. In addition, the organic white-light-emitting device 
exhibited a low turn-on voltage of 3.5 V, and the color coordinates showed almost no 
variation at the different operating voltages, even when the luminance was as high as 
3×104 cd/m2. 
 
論文摘要(三) 
Improved Silicon Solar Cell Efficiency by Patterned Polymer Coating Structures 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/02/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 新型高分子微奈米結構配向薄膜及其液晶顯示光電特性研究
計畫主持人: 吳國梅
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-182-014- 學門領域: 光電與能源高分子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
參與美國加州大學 UCLA 國際合作研究 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
