料系統形成等級結構(hierarchical structure)的研究，也就是相關於一較大結構中衍生另一較
小結構(structure-within-structure)方面的研究，開始吸引學者的注意。 
目前大部分理論計算的研究系統，主要集中在二種共聚合物混摻系統[6-10]以及 ABC
三團聯線性共聚合物系統[11]這二種，基本上，在這些系統中若能形成二種尺寸之等級結
構，其尺寸均相差不大；因此，若要拉大尺寸等級的差異性，我們認為以下的共聚合物系
統，例如：A-block-(B-graft-C)、以及 A-block-(B-alt-C)、‧‧等較適合。這是因為來自於單
體 B 與 C 的不相容性所造成的微結構(B-rich、C-rich)尺寸等級，理所當然比來自於塊狀 A
與 B(C)之間的不相容性所造成的微結構(A-rich、B(C)-rich)尺寸來得小。就晚學所知，目前
除了文獻中有一篇相關於 A-block-(B-alt-A)系統的自組裝行為分析[12]，尚無人針對此類系
統作完整的相行為分析。另外，文獻中也有一些理論研究顯示了藉由改變分子間的建構方
式(architecture)，例如：A-block-(B-graft-C) linear-comb [13]、ABn 或 ABC 等 miktoarm 星形
高分子[14-17]，共聚合物所展現的微結構型態與尺寸等級深受其影響。然而這些相關的研
究目前仍屬少數、並不完整。 
因此，為了能更深入了解尺寸標度競爭下共聚合物的自組裝行為，在本計畫中，我們
選擇了以下三種系統 AB2 miktoarm star、A-block-(B-graft-C)、以及 A2-star-(B-alt-C)共聚合
物 (如 Fig. 1 所示)，我們運用耗散粒子動力學(Dissipative Particle Dynamics, DPD)計算法，
來模擬微結構衍變如何受到 architecture、成分間的不相容性、各成分的組成、以及聚合度
的影響。二年下來，每一系統都有具體令人振奮的結果，且已整理三篇投稿並刊登至期刊
中。 
 
DPD Simulation Method 
In the DPD simulation [18], the time evolution of motion for a set of interacting particles is 
solved by Newton’s equation. For simplicity, we assume that the masses of all particles are equal 
to 1. The force acting on the i-th particle if
G
 contains three parts: a conservative force , a 
dissipative force 
C
ijF
G
D
ijF
G
, and a random force RijF
G
, i.e., 
( C D Ri ij ij
i j
)ijf F F F
≠
= + +∑G G G G  (1) 
where the sum is over all other particles within a certain cut-off radius rc. As this short-range 
cut-off counts only local interactions, rc is usually set to 1 so that all lengths are measured relative 
to the particle radius.  
The conservative force  is a soft repulsive force and given by CijF
G
1
          
0
ij
ij cij ijC
ij c
ij c
r
r ra n
F r r r
⎧ ⎛ ⎞ <−⎪ ⎜ ⎟= ⎨ ⎝ ⎠ ≥⎪⎩
GG
 (2) 
where  is the repulsive interaction parameter between particles i and j, , ija ij i jr r r= −G G G ij ijr r= G , 
 2
2
2 ( )              ( ) [ ( )]
0                                  
c ij ij cD R
ij c
r r r r
r r
r r
ω ω ⎧ − <⎪= = ⎨ ≥⎪⎩
 (9) 
Finally, the spring force , which acts between the connected beads in a molecule, has the 
form of 
sf
K
 4
ij
S
i
j
f Cr= ∑G G   (10) 
where C is a harmonic type spring constant for the connecting pairs of beads in a molecule, and is 
chosen equal to 4 (in tems of kBT). 
Note that a modified version of the velocity-Verlet algorithm is used here to solve the 
Newtonian equation of motion 
21( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
2i i i i
r t t r t v t t f t tΔ Δ+ = + ⋅ + ⋅ Δ  
( ) ( ) ( )i i iv t t v t f t tλ+ Δ = + ⋅ Δ  
[ ]( ) ( ) ( )i i i if t t f r t t v t tΔ Δ+ = + + + Δ  
[1( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
2i i i i
v t t v t t f t f t tΔ Δ+ = + ⋅ + + ]Δ   (11) 
In particular, we choose λ = 0.65 and Δt = 0.05 here. As such, the time evolution of morphology 
patterns is recorded until the systems show a stable pattern. 
 
結果與討論 
A2B Miktoarm Star Copolymers (This part has been accepted in Polymer.) 
In simulating the phase behavior of A2B miktoarm star copolymers by DPD, the particle 
density ρ is kept equal to 3, and hence the dimensionless interaction parameter (i.e., in terms of 
kBT) between equal particles aII in Eq. (4) is set equal to 25 to resemble the Flory interaction 
parameters 0IIχ = ; I = A, B. The total number of beads for an A2B chain is fixed at N=20. We 
adopt 3-D lattice with at least 15x15x15 grids to ensure that the side length of the simulation box 
is significantly larger than the radius of gyration ( ) of A2B chains. In our simulated systems, 
the value of  is approximately 1.6 to 2.0 grids. In each pattern, the red and green colors are 
used to represent A and B, respectively.   
gR
gR
Fig. 2 displays the phase diagram of A2B miktoarm star copolymers simulated by DPD. We 
also include the phase diagram determined by SCMF theory [14], which is plotted with the black 
curve in Fig. 2, as a comparison. Similar to linear diblock copolymers, the formation of 
microstructures is mainly dominated by the composition fB. Fig. 3 illustrates the morphology 
variation of A2B with fB when aAB = 34. It is clear that a series of transition from 
behavior for a series of N varying from 10 to 40 at a fixed composition value of fB = 0.6, and 
analyze the variation of ( )ODTAB Nχ  with N in Fig. 5. The value of ( )ODTAB Nχ for a specific N is 
determined by averaging the lowest AB Nχ  for an ordered state and the highest one for a 
disordered state, which are designated with error bars in Fig. 5. The log-log plot of 
ODT ODT,eff( ) ( )AB ABN N 1χ χ −  and N, as shown in Fig. 5, reveals a straight line. This manifests 
the fact that in A2B miktoarm star copolymers, the decrease of the effective segregation parameter 
caused by fluctuations for a finite chain N obeys the equation eff( ) ( ) (1AB ABN N )N
βχ χ α= + . 
From Fig. 5, we obtain the value of α = 3.2 and β = -0.43. We then apply this equation to convert 
AB Nχ  into ( )effAB Nχ , and compare our simulated phase diagram with that determined by SCMF 
theory in Fig. 2. We observe that both phase diagrams are in quantitatively good agreement. 
Recall that in linear AB diblock copolymers the corresponding ODT value of AB Nχ  for a finite 
chain has been derived by including the fluctuation effects [20], and applied to quantitatively 
match the phase diagrams between the DPD simulation and SCMF theory [21], 
( ) 2 0.51eff 2
3 1 3.91 3.9
AB AB
AB
NN
NN
υ
Nχ χχ −−= = ++
  (12) 
where ν  is the swelling exponent for a copolymer chain with ~gR Nν . For short polymer chains, 
they become swollen and ν  = 0.588. The fact that both conversion equations are quite similar 
reveal that the thermal fluctuation effects on the correction for the ODT for a finite chain length 
are almost consistent in AB linear copolymers and A2B miktoarm star copolymers.  
 
A2-star-(B-alt-C) Molecules (This part has been submitted to Macromolecules.) 
In simulating the microphase separation behavior of A2-star-(B-alt-C) copolymers, we set 
the particle density ρ to be 3, and therefore the dimensionless interaction parameter (i.e., in terms 
of kBT) between like particles aII = 25 according to the work of Groot and Warren.
30 The DPD 
simulations are performed in a 3-D lattice of size 20×20×20 grids with periodic boundary 
conditions. This box size is chosen to ensure that the formed microstructures for our model 
copolymer with the total number of beads per chain N = 13 are no longer affected by the 
simulation box. In each simulated morphology pattern, the red, green and blue colors are used to 
represent A, B, and C, respectively. 
First, we examine how the interaction parameters affect the resulting structure patterns of 
A2-star-(B-alt-C) copolymers. Fig. 6 displays the phase diagram in terms of aBC and aAB = aAC for 
the systems with fA = 0.54. At a fixed value of aBC, we observe that when aAB = aAC is large 
enough, i.e., the immiscibility degree between the A-coil block and the BC-alternating block 
becomes significant, the copolymers pack into an ordered A-rich and BC-rich segregated 
microstructure. Moreover, various diblock-like morphologies are induced by varying the 
 6
plays a dominant role in determining the morphology geometry at large length scale as well as the 
formation of hierarchical structure-within-structure. Therefore, here we fix the value of aAB = aAC 
at 100, which is significant enough to assure the formation of the large-length-scale diblock-like 
structures, and construct the corresponding phase diagram in terms of fA and aBC, as shown in Fig. 
8. As can be seen clearly, when aBC = 25, a series of morphology by varying fA from perforated 
lamellae of A, , (fA = 0.23) → (0.3APL A,BCL ≤ fA ≤ 0.5) → (fA = 0.54) →  (0.6 ≤ fABCG HEXBCC ≤ 0.7) 
→ (0.75 ≤ fA 0.85) is observed. These simulated microstructure regimes by varying the 
composition are in good agreement with those predicted by self-consistent mean field (SCMF) 
theory as well as our previous DPD study. Both SCMF and DPD results revealed that the 
simulated phase diagram is similar to that of linear AB diblock copolymers but with a slight 
deviation due to the molecular asymmetry. When aBC decreases from 25, it is worth noting that 
the regime of ordered microstructures in which the BC-blocks form the minor domains such as 
 , , and , is enlarged noticeably and even extended to the systems with fA < 
0.5. For example, when fA = 0.3-0.5, although the BC-block is longer than the A-block, the 
majority BC component still tends to form the minor domains in the minority A-rich matrix, i.e., 
the so-called inverted microstructures. This is due to the fact that when B and C become more 
attractive, the BC-alternating blocks favor to coil together in order to reduce the contacts with the 
A-blocks. Note that these inverted structures have been frequently observed in block copolymer 
solutions by increasing the solvent selectivity and/or the solvent amount. However, this is 
possibly the first study to predict their presence in the A2-star-(B-alt-C) copolymer melts. 
BCS ≤
BCG , BCPL
HEX
BCC BCS
Now, let us continue to discuss the phase behavior shown in Fig. 8 for each copolymer with 
a particular value of fA when aBC increases from 25. Similar to the copolymer with fA = 0.54, a 
significant increase in the interaction parameter aBC also leads to the formation of 
small-length-scale B and C segregated lamellae within the large-length-scale BC-rich domains 
for the copolymers with other values of fA in a wide range of 0.2-0.85. In Fig. 9 we display the 
various types of structure-within-structures, such as A-formed spheres in the matrix formed by B 
and C alternating layers ( -within- ) (fAAS B,CL ≅ 0.14), hexagonally packed A-formed cylinders in 
the matrix with B and C segregated layers ( -within- ) (fAHEXAC B,CL ≅ 0.23), -within-  
(0.3 ≤ fA 0.6), coaxial B and C alternating domains within hexagonally packed BC-formed 
cylinders in the A-matrix ( -within- ) (0.65
B,CL A,BCL
≤
B,CL
HEX
BCC ≤ fA ≤ 0.7), and cocentric BC-alternating 
domains within BC-formed spheres in the A-matrix ( -within- ) (0.75≤ fA 0.85), which 
are simulated at aBC = 120. Note that the two-length-scale morphology of -within-  
shown in Fig. 9 is obtained for the case of N increased to 21. This is simply because of the fact 
B,CL BCS ≤
AS B,CL
 8
 10
6
possible. Recall that in the A-block-(B-alt-C)-B-block-A copolymers, Matsushita and co-workers 
predicted that the number of thin layers within the large-length-scale lamellae increases from 3 
when the number of (B-alt-C) per chain n equals 2, to 5 when 3 n≤ ≤ , by simply comparing 
the numbers of possible conformations for each layered structure. Though we observe a 
three-layered small-length-scale structure instead of their prediction of five-layered structure for 
n = 3, which we believe may be due to the difference of molecular architecture, both results have 
pointed to the same conclusion that more-layered structures are possible to form by increasing the 
number of alternating blocks. However, we believe that the number of small-length-scale 
segregated domains formed within the large-length-scale structures has to reach a maximum 
when N keeps increasing due to the balance between the chain stretching energy and the 
interfacial energy. As far as we know, the issue that the number of allowed thin layers formed 
within each hierachical structure by varying N has not been concluded yet. To examine the 
number of small-length-scale B and C segregated domains formed within the structure other than 
lamellae, we choose fA 0.69 and increase N = 13 (n = 2) to 25 (n = 4). As can be seen clearly in 
Figs. 9 and 11, three B-C-B coaxial cylinders within  are formed for both cases, although 
the formed cylinders for N = 25 are slightly elliptic. The reason that the number of B and C 
segregated domains in the -within-  remains a constant of three when N increases from 
13 to 25 may be given as follows: (1) the number of minority B and C segments per chain 
increases slightly (n = 2-4) so that the most possible chain conformation still remains to form 
three-layer segregation; (2) the number of thin coaxial layers allowed to form within the cylinders 
is three. In order to systematically investigate this matter, a further simulation for larger N values 
needs to be performed in a larger simulation box, which is too time consuming and not our 
concern here. Though the number of possible formed small-length-scale layers may differ when 
N increases, our above results have still revealed that the formed hierachical structure types for 
small value of N = 13 are maintained for large N. Hence, we believe that the self-assembling 
behavior associated with two length scales simulated for small value of N = 13 in this study 
should also hold true qualitatively for A2-star-(B-alt-C) copolymers with large degrees of 
copolymerization N. 
≅
HEX
BCC
B,CL
HEX
BCC
 
A-block-(B-graft-C) Molecules (This part has been accepted in Macromolecular Rapid 
Communications.) 
In order to explore the effects of the interaction parameter aAB on the microstructures formed 
in A-block-(B-graft-C) coil-comb molecules, we choose fA = 0.2, N = 10, aAC = aBC = 70, and vary 
the value of aAB. Fig. 12 displays the resulting morphology transition from segregated AB and C 
lamellae, , (0  aAB 25) → gyroid of A, , (aAB = 30) → hexagonally packed 
A-formed cylinders, , (35 aAB 
AB,CL ≤ ≤ AG
HEX
AC ≤ ≤ 70) → A-formed spheres, , (aAB = 75) → A-formed 
spheres within the segregated B and C lamellae, -within- , (80
AS
AS B,CL ≤  aAB 120). First, the ≤
 12
B,C
observed in experiments. To illustrate this, we choose aAC = aBC = 70 and aAB =100. Fig. 14 
displays the resulting DPD simulation results at various values of fA = 0.1, 0.3, 0.4, 0.6, and N = 
10-25. Generally speaking, with increasing the A composition fA, the formed large-length-scale 
morphology varies from → → → L, as expected. More interestingly, we observe that 
the formation of small-length-scale segregation between B and C within the BC-rich domains is 
dependent of the chain length N and fA (more precisely, the length of the BC-comb block). When 
fA is 0.1, the system forms  no matter whether the value of N is 10 or 20, and yet 
increasing N makes the separation between B and C more evident. Whereas, when fA >0.1, we 
find that the systems with N = 10 are not be able to form any structure-within-structure, but only 
align to form A-rich and C-rich segregated domains with B in the interfaces. Indeed, this is 
reasonable due to the fact that when the length of the BC-comb block becomes short, the 
segregation degree between B and C is not significant enough to make these B and C well aligned 
to form lamellae. Hence, the resulting morphology is mainly driven by the segregation between A 
and C, and B acts more like a component in the interfaces. By increasing the length of the 
BC-comb block, one may expect that B and C will separate evidently and form a lamellar 
structure. For example, when N increases to 20, both types of hierachical structures of the 
A-formed cylinders in the matrix with B and C segregated layers ( -within- ) (fA = 0.3, 
0.4) and segregated B and C lamellae within the A-rich and BC-rich lamellae ( -within- ) 
(fA = 0.5), are observed. When fA increases to 0.6, though the small-length-scale B and C lamellae 
are not well formed within the BC-rich lamellae for N = 20, the formation of  
is still clearly observed as N increases to 25. These simulated structure-within-structures, in 
which the small-length-scale lamellae are typically perpendicular to the large-length-scale 
structures, are in good agreement with those observed experimentally in A-block-(B-graft-C) 
coil-comb copolymers. Note that we have not obtained other types of structure-within-structures, 
such as -within-CBC and -within-SBC. This is mainly due to the fact that these 
hierarchical structures are formed when fA is larger (i.e., the comb composition is smaller). 
Accordingly, the total chain length N has to increase further in order to generate the 
small-length-scale lamellar ordering of B and C. 
AS
HEX
AC AG
AS -within-L
HEX
AC B,CL
B,CL A,BCL
B,C A,BCL -within-L
B,CL B,CL
 
計畫成果自評 
目前我們已具體完成了三年期計畫中的二年工作進度。從各系統的 DPD 模擬結果來
看，的確改變了共聚合物的分子建構方式(architecture)，其等級結構受到了很大的影響。目
前我們已完成了三篇論文。在未來的第三年度，我們計畫針對現有文獻的實驗系統來做模
擬比較，期許能讓讀者對 hierachical structures 有更全面的了解。 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Schematic plot of our simulated copolymers with different molecular architectures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Phase diagram of A2B miktoarm star copolymers in terms of the interaction parameter 
aAB and composition fB. The black solid curves correspond to the phase diagram determined by 
SCMF theory as a function of fB and (χABN)eff, in which χAB is the Flory-Huggins interaction 
parameter and N is the degree of copolymerization. 
 
 
 
 
 14
  
 
Fig. 4.    Morphology pattern and projection of A2B miktoarm star copolymers with fB = 0.8 
and aAB = 33. 
 16
 
 
 
 
aBC=-20 aBC=-10 aBC=15 
 
aBC=25 aBC=30 aBC=70 
 
aBC=100 aBC=120  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7.  Morphology variation of A2-star-(B-alt-C) copolymers with aBC when fA = 0.54, N = 13, 
and aAB = aAC = 100. The red, green, and blue colors represent A, B, and C, respectively. The red 
surface corresponds to the isosurface of component A. 
 
 
 
 
 
 18
 
fA=0.14 
 
 
 
fA=0.23 
 
fA=0.54 
 
 
fA=0.69 
 
fA=0.85 
 
 
 
 20
Fig. 9.  Morphology variation and corresponding molecular arrangements of A2-star-(B-alt-C) 
copolymers (N =13) with fA when aAB = aAC = 100 and aBC = 120. Note that the pattern when 
fA=0.14 corresponds to N = 21. The red, green, and blue colors represent A, B, and C, respectively. 
The red surface corresponds to the isosurface of component A. 
fA ≅ 0.54 
 
Box Size=25x25x25 
 
fA ≅ 0.69 
 
Box Size=29x29x29 
 
 
Fig. 11.  Structure patterns of A2-star-(B-alt-C) copolymers with N = 25, aAB = aAC = 100, aBC = 
120, and fA equal to 0.54 and 0.69, respectively. The red, green, and blue colors represent A, B, 
and C, respectively. The red surface corresponds to the isosurface of component A. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 12.  Morphology variation of A-block-(B-graft-C) molecules with aAB when N=10, fA=0.2 
and aAC = aBC = 70. The red, green, and blue colors represent A, B, and C, respectively. The blue 
and red surfaces correspond to the isosurfaces of component A and C, respectively. 
 
 22
 
 
Fig. 14.  Morphology variation of A-block-(B-graft-C) molecules with fA and N at aAC = aBC = 
70 and aAB =100. 
 24
並與他有了很深入的交談。Pro. Cho 向我展示了他的研究團隊，藉著改變表面的官
能基，能夠有效地控制光電高分子的排列行為及其所對應的光電性質。他並對於晚
學的研究展現出高度的興趣，鼓勵我可以與他的研究團隊合作，運用模擬之技術，
探討光電高分子的結構排列；進而將現在所關注的結構內有結構的特殊排列行為，
能更提升至光電材料未來之應用。 
 
3. 攜回資料名稱及內容： 
會議論文摘要紙本 
部分參與人員名片或電子郵件地址 
4. 附件： 
此次國際會議中，晚學投搞發表之論文。將收錄在捷克化學學會集結所有參與此次
會議發表論文之論文集當中。 
 
 2
MODEL AND SIMULATION METHODS 
We employ an Energy Calculations and 
Dynamics (ENCAD) simulation program [8], which is 
an all-atom model, to calculate the atomic interaction 
parameters between the PMAA and the solvent water. 
The total potential energy function U is given as 
follows, 
 
          (1)          bond bend torsion vdw elsU U U U U U= + + + +   
The system contains a single chain of syndiotactic 
PMAA with a degree of polymerization N equal to 48 
in the presence of approximately 1700 water 
molecules. In our simulations, we used Materials 
Studio (MS) molecular modeling software to construct 
the initial atomistic structure of the PMAA, and varied 
the number of charged monomers N
where Ubond, Ubend, and Utorsion describe the bonded 
interactions contributed from bond stretching, bond 
angle bending, and torsion angle twisting, respectively, 
with the remaining two terms, Uvdw and Uels 
representing van der Waals interactions and 
electrostatic Coulomb potential energy, respectively. 
The detailed terms were shown in our previous work 
[9]. 
All the parameters of the ENCAD are derived 
from ab-initio quantum mechanics, spectroscopy, and 
crystallography, and can be obtained from refs. [8] and 
[10]. In addition, the solvent water is treated explicitly 
via a flexible three-centered (F3C) model, in which the 
associated water potential still adopts the same type of 
the force fields as in the ENCAD program [10]. This 
F3C water model has proved suitable for describing 
the structural and dynamic properties of liquid water. 
C, which were 
equally distributed along the chain. In particular, the 
charge density f (= NC /N) for the PMAA chain is 
equal to 1, 0.5, 0.33, 0.25, and 0, respectively. We 
assumed that no counterions were present in the study. 
The molecular dynamics simulations were performed 
by integrating the positions and velocities of all atoms 
according to the velocity-Verlet algorithm [11,12]. The 
initial temperature was set at 300 K and the integration 
time step was chosen as 1 fs. The PMAA chain was 
first put in a vacuum box with a side length of 40 Å 
and a periodic boundary condition, then the box was 
gradually filled with water molecules to a density of 
0.791g/cm3. Prior to simulation, the steepest descent 
minimization method was adopted to relax and 
equilibrate the initial structure. To clarify, the PMAA 
chain was fixed and the water solvent was relaxed to 
populate the relevant hydration sites on the PMAA for 
30 ps in a canonical NVT ensemble. This minimized 
structure was then compressed to a density of 0.987 
g/cm3 at a rate of 0.1Å/fs, followed by a series of 
annealing processes. The annealing temperature was 
first raised from 300 to 600 K at a rate of 5 K/1ps and 
kept at 600 K for 100 ps. It was then quenched to 300 
K at the same rate and kept at 300 K for 20 ps. This 
annealing cycle was repeated 4 to 6 times to assure 
that the system had been equilibrated. Finally, it was 
followed by a long relaxation period of 100 ps at 300 
K. After these processes were performed so that the 
system energy has reached the equilibrium value, we 
analyzed the radius of gyration (Rg) of the PMAA 
chain and the radial distribution function (RDF) every 
100 fs as well as the self-velocity autocorrelation 
function (VACF) of water molecules every 5 fs, which 
were averaged out for the data collection interval of 10 
ps. 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSTION 
Fig. 1 displays the variation in the radius of 
gyration (Rg) with f, where we also designate the 
maximum and minimum values of Rg with error bars. 
In order to clearly manifest the significant effects 
contributed from water, we repeat the simulation on 
the same system, however, the water is treated 
implicitly as a comparison. To clarify, the solvent is 
taken into account as a continuum dielectric with a 
dielectric constant. It clearly shows that with the same 
charge density f, the value of Rg for the PMAA chain 
when the water is treated via a F3C model is greater 
than that when the water is treated implicitly. This 
indicates that the existence of real water causes a 
greater degree of stretching in the charged polymer 
chain. As the charge density f increases, due to the fact 
that the repulsive degree of the electrostatic 
interactions between the COO- groups becomes more 
significant, Rg shows an increasing behavior. Later we 
will show that the organization of water molecules 
surrounding the PMAA chain also plays an important 
role in the PMAA chain conformation behavior. 
 
 
Figure 1.  Plot of the radius of gyration (Rg) of PMAA 
versus charge density f  when the solvent water is treated 
explicitly via a F3C model and implicitly via a continuum 
dielectric, respectively. 
 2
H atoms are denoted as H1y and H1n, respectively. 
We find that for the H1y and H2 atoms, which are 
strongly connected to the oxygen atoms of the COO- 
groups, both the libration and bending peaks shift 
significantly from a lower frequency for H0 towards a 
higher frequency, whereas the stretching peak shifts 
oppositely. For the H1n atoms, which are not directly 
adsorbed into the oxygen atoms of the COO- groups, 
the shifting degrees of the main peak positions are not 
as significant as those obtained from the strongly 
bonded H1y and H2 atoms. 
 
(a)                                        
 
(b) 
 
Figure 4.  Vibration spectra of (a) oxygen and (b) hydrogen 
atoms of water in different interaction states with the COO- 
groups. 
CONCLUSION 
We employ all-atom molecular dynamics 
simulations  to  study  a single  molecule  of  PMAA at  
 
 
                           
 
 
1. P. Ravi, C. Wang, K. C. Tam, and L. H. Gan,  
Macromolecules 36, 173 (2003).  
2. V. Sfica, and C. Tsitsilianis, Macromolecules 36, 4983  
(2003). 
3. C. Wang, P. Ravi, K. C. Tam, and L. H. Gan, J. Phys.  
Chem. B 108, 1621 (2004). 
4. J. Wittner, A. Johner, and J. F. Joanny, J. Phys.II 5, 635  
(1995). 
5. T. T. Nguyen, I. Rouzina, and B. I. Shklovskii, J. Chem.  
Phys. 112, 2562 (2000). 
6. F. J. Solis, J. Chem. Phys. 117, 9009 (2002). 
7. P. Y. Hsiao and E. Luijten, Phys. Rev. Leters. 97, 148301  
(2006). 
8. M. Levitt, M. Hirshberg, R. Sharon, and V. Daggett,  
Comput. Phys. Commun 91, 215 (1995). 
 
 
 
 
various charge densities f in aqueous solutions. We 
find that in addition to the repulsive electrostatic 
interactions between the charged COO- groups, the 
strong attractive interaction between the charged COO- 
group and water via the formation of hydrogen bonds 
holds great influence on both the PMAA chain 
conformation and the dynamic properties of water. 
Since bridged water molecules significantly limit 
torsional and bending degrees of the backbone 
monomers, it is reasonable to conclude that the rod-
like chain conformation, exhibited by the strongly 
charged polymer chain, is significantly enhanced via 
the bridged water. Furthermore, this influence slows 
down water diffusion and enables the two 
characteristic peaks of the oxygen spectrum to shift to 
higher frequencies. When water molecules bridge 
between two neighboring COO- groups, we observe a 
significant increase to the second peak of the 
corresponding oxygen spectrum  ( 100cm≈ -1). This is 
not surprising since the second peak is mainly 
attributed to the H-bonded O-O intermolecular 
stretching vibration. In addition, the strong H-bonded 
interaction   also causes a  respective  increase  of  386  
cm-1 and 111cm-1 to the libration and bending peaks of 
the hydrogen spectrum and a decrease of 151cm-1 to 
the stretching peak. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
This work was supported by the National Science 
Council of the Republic of China under Grant Number 
NSC-94-2212-E-110-005, NSC-095-SAF-I-564-623-
TMS, and NSC 95-2221-E-002-155.  
 
 
 
 
 
9. S. P. Ju, W. J. Lee, C. I. Huang, W. Z. Cheng, and Y, T,  
Chung, J. Chem. Phys. 126, 224901 
10. M. Levitt, M. Hirshberg, R. Sharon, K. E. Laiding, and V. 
Daggett, J. Phys. Chem. B 101, 5051 (1997). 
11. J. M. Haile, Molecular Dynamics Simulation, Wiley–
Interscience, New York, 1992. 
12. D. C. Rapaport, The Art of Molecular Dynamics 
Simulations, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 
1997. 
13. M. Praprotnik and D. Janežič, J. Chem. Phys. 122, 
174103 (2005). 
 4
