 2
impact of temporal pump depletion (TPD) on 
the fast light is investigated, in which TPD is 
the response of pump power to the temporal 
variation of metastable population density. 
The effect of TPD was neglected in the 
conventional perturbation method shown in 
literatures because of small signal power 
assumption. It is found that negative group 
velocity is under estimated and gain 
coefficient is over estimated without 
considering the TPD. The effects of high 
order dispersions, which are induced by the 
interaction of the optical fields and erbium 
ions, on the fast light are also shown. 
 
Keywords: Erbium-doped fiber amplifiers, 
Dispersion, Fast light 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
The propagation of the optical pulse in 
the highly dispersive medium with slow or 
fast light was interested [1-10]. Several 
experimental techniques were developed to 
show such interesting phenomena. It was 
reported that the slow and fast light can be 
easily observed by using the effect of 
coherent population oscillation (CPO) in an 
erbium-doped fiber amplifier (EDFA) [9,10]. 
Through the interaction between the fields 
and erbium ions in an erbium-doped fiber 
(EDF), there is the spectral absorption dip of 
narrow bandwidth when pump power is not 
enough to provide gain. On the contrary, 
when pump power is high enough, there is 
the spectral gain dip of narrow bandwidth. 
According to Kramers-Kronig relations, the 
EDF becomes a highly dispersive medium 
for the pulse in the presence of either spectral 
absorption or gain dip. The spectral 
absorption and gain dips result in slow and 
fast light, respectively. Reference [10] 
showed the case with 9-m EDF strongly 
pumped by a 980-nm semiconductor laser 
diode. The 1550-nm input pulse of 0.5 ms 
width and 0.5 mW power superimposing on a 
strong continuous wave (CW) control beam 
of the same wavelength was launched into 
the pumped EDF. Pulse back-propagation 
owing to fast group velocity was reported to 
be experimentally observed and the group 
index is estimated to be about -4,000. 
Because the interested pulse width is 
much longer than polarization de-phasing 
time, the interaction of the pulse and the 
population of doped erbium ions in an EDF 
can be described by the coupled equations of 
wave equation and rate equation. Reference 
[9] used a perturbation method to derive the 
time delay and gain (loss) coefficient of a 
sinusoidal modulated wave. This method 
linearizes the coupled equations by assuming 
that the power of the sinusoidal modulated 
wave is much less than that of control beam. 
Under this assumption, the temporal 
variation of ground level population density 
corresponding to the sinusoidal modulated 
wave can also be assumed to be much less 
than the steady state population density of 
ground level corresponding to the control 
beam. From the linearized coupled equations, 
the group velocity and gain coefficient of the 
sinusoidal modulated wave can be obtained. 
However, in this paper, we show that this 
perturbation method is not accurate in an 
EDFA even for the case that the assumption 
of perturbation is valid. The results 
numerically solved from the complete 
coupled equations without linearlization 
show that the gain coefficient and the 
absolute value of group velocity are over 
estimated and under estimated, respectively. 
We find that the inaccuracy is due to the 
temporal pump depletion (TPD) that is not 
included in the above perturbation method. 
The pump power depleted by the control 
beam is not time varying. Pulse depletes 
metastable population density. Pump power 
is absorbed more when metastable 
population density is depleted. The TPD is 
the pump power temporal variation 
responding to the temporal variation of the 
metastable population density absorbed by an 
optical pulse. In this paper, we develop the 
perturbation method including the TPD 
effect. It is shown that our method is accurate 
compared with the results directly solved 
from the complete coupled equations. The 
impact of the TPD on gain coefficient and 
 4
0.845 m-1. We take pulse width Tw= 0.5 ms 
and pump power Pp0= 180 mW to show 
numerical results in section 4, where the 
control beam power Pc0 and peak power Ps0 
are varied. 
For CPO effect, it requires pulse power 
Pa(z,t) be much less than control beam power 
Pc(z) [12]. Under this requirement, we may 
take the assumption of small pulse power for 
linearizing Eqs.(1)-(3), i.e., the power 
( , ) ( ) ( , )s c aP z t P z P z t= + , in which ( )cP z >>  
( , )aP z t . For simplicity the z dependence of 
all variables will not be shown in the 
following, unless they are specified. The 
normalized metastable population density 
can be written as 2 ( ) ( )c aN t N N t= + , where 
Nc and Na(t) are the normalized metastable 
population densities corresponding to Pc and 
Pa(t), respectively, hence ( )c aN N t>> . 
Signal power depletes pump power through 
metastable population density. The 
corresponding pump power can be written as 
( ) ( )p pc paP t P P t= + , where Ppc and Ppa(t) are 
pump powers corresponding to Nc and Na(t), 
respectively, hence ( )pc paP P t>> . 
The powers and normalized metastable 
population density can be written as 
( ) ( ) exp( )s c aP t P P i t d= + Ω − Ω Ω∫  ,   (8) 
( ) ( ) exp( )p pc paP t P P i t d= + Ω − Ω Ω∫  , (9) 
2 ( ) ( ) exp( )c aN t N N i t d= + Ω − Ω Ω∫  ,(10) 
where ( )aP Ω , ( )paP Ω , and ( )aN Ω  are the 
Fourier transforms of Pa(t), Ppa(t), and Na(t), 
respectively. 
Substituting Eqs.(8)-(10) into Eq.(3) and 
equating the terms of the same order of 
magnitude, we have 
( ) 1pccc cth th
s p
PPN
P P
ω τ −⎛ ⎞= +⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
,  (11) 
( ) 1( )a cN iω τ τ −Ω = − Ω ,  
pa paa a
cth th is is
s p s p
P PP P N
P P P P
⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞× + − +⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎥⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦
  
 (12) 
where cω is the resonant angular frequency 
defined according to [9] and 
11 pccc is is
s p
PP
P P
ω τ −⎛ ⎞= + +⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
.   (13) 
Substituting Eqs.(8)-(12) into Eqs.(1) 
and (2), and equating the terms of the same 
order of magnitude, we have the coupled 
equations 
( )c s ls cdP Pdz α α= − +  ( )gs ls c cN Pα α+ + ,   (14) 
( )pc p lp pcdP Pdz α α= − +  ( )gp lp c pcN Pα α+ + ,   (15) 
( ) ( ) ( )a ss a sp pa
dP c P c P
dz
Ω = Ω + Ω   , (16) 
( )
( ) ( )pa pp pa ps a
dP
c P c P
dz
Ω = Ω + Ω
   , (17) 
where the coefficients 
( ) ( )gsss s ls gs ls
n
c i
c
α α α α= Ω− + + + ,  
( ) 1c cc c cth is
s s
P PN N i
P P
ω τ τ −⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞× + − − Ω⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦
,(18) 
( )sp gs lsc α α= +   
( ) 1c c c cth is
p p
P P N i
P P
ω τ τ −⎛ ⎞× − − Ω⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
, (19) 
( ) ( )gppp p lp gp lp
n
c i
c
α α α α= Ω− + + +   
( ) 1pc pcc c cth is
p p
P P
N N i
P P
ω τ τ −⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞× + − − Ω⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎥⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦
,(20) 
( )ps gp lpc α α= +  
( ) 1pc pc c cth is
s s
P P
N i
P P
ω τ τ −⎛ ⎞× − − Ω⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ .  (21) 
For the case without TPD, the gain 
coefficient and propagation constant of 
( )aP Ω are the real and imaginary parts of css, 
respectively. The terminology “propagation 
constant” usually refers to electric field. But 
for the present analysis, it refers to power 
envelope. The group index of Pa(t) can be 
obtained from the derivative of the 
 6
called the gain dispersion and phase shift 
dispersion, respectively. For studying the 
effect of dispersion induced by CPO on pulse 
shape, we define the partial accumulated gain 
and phase shift as 
( ) ( )( ) ( )M Ma aiγ φΩ + Ω =  
0 1
: :
1 1
! !
M M
k k
ak ak
k k
k even k odd
i
k k
γ φ
= =
Ω + Ω∑ ∑ ,  (30) 
where M is an integer not larger than Q; akγ  
and akφ  are given by Eq.(29). Replacing 
( ) ( )a aiγ φΩ + Ω  in Eq.(27) by 
( ) ( )( ) ( )M Ma aiγ φΩ + Ω , we have the output pulse 
shape ( ) ( )MaP t which results from the partial 
accumulated gain and phase shift. 
For the case without TPD, we may solve 
Eqs.(14) and (16) with the coefficient csp=0. 
From the solutions, the output pulse shape, 
gain coefficient, and propagation constant 
can be calculated with similar methods 
shown above. 
It is found that the approximate solutions 
solved from Eqs.(14)-(17) are nearly the 
same as the exact solutions solved from 
Eqs.(1)-(3) when the control beam power Pc0 
is about one hundred times larger than the 
peak pulse power Ps0. In this section, we take 
the ratio 0 0/ 10c sP P =  [10], which will 
result in slight discrepancy between the 
approximate solution and the exact solution. 
The propagation characteristics of the fast 
light with 0 0/c sP P = 10 and 100 are similar. 
The cases with Pc0 = 0.5 mW, 0.1 mW, and 
2.5 mW are considered in the following three 
sub-sections. 
(i) Pc0= 0.5 mW 
Figs. 1(a)-1(f) show the numerical results 
with Pc0= 0.5 mW. Fig. 1(a) shows the input 
and output pulse shapes, in which the input 
pulse shape is enlarged one hundred times so 
that it can be clearly shown. The approximate 
solutions with and without TPD are also 
shown in Fig. 1(a). One can see that, without 
TPD, pulse gain is over estimated and pulse 
delay time is under estimated. The 
discrepancy between the exact solution and 
the approximate solution with TPD is due to 
the pulse peak power that is not small enough 
compared with control beam power. Fig. 1(b) 
shows the pump power temporal variation 
and normalized metastable population 
density at EDF output end, in which the 
approximate solutions Ppa(t) and Na(t) are 
also shown. Ppa(t) and Na(t) are calculated 
from Eqs. (28) and (12), respectively.  For 
the case without TPD, paP = 0 in Eq.(12). 
One can clearly see that the depletion of 
metastable population density is under 
estimated for the case without considering 
TPD, which leads to the under estimation of 
CPO effect. Figs. 1(c) and 1(d) show the gain 
coefficient and propagation constant spectra, 
respectively, at several distances. In Figs. 1(c) 
and 1(d), the approximate solutions with and 
without TPD are shown. At 2.5 m distance, 
the gain coefficient spectra for the cases with 
and without TPD are about the same because 
TPD is not yet significantly built up, so are 
the propagation constant spectra. After about 
5 m distance, for the case without TPD, the 
gain coefficient and the negative slope of the 
propagation constant at Ω =0 are over 
estimated and under estimated, respectively. 
Thus the pulse gain and negative group 
velocity are over and under estimated, 
respectively. Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) show the 
accumulated gain and phase shift, 
respectively, for the approximate solutions 
with and without TPD. From the results, we 
study the effect of gain dispersion and phase 
shift dispersion on pulse propagation in the 
following. 
For the case with TPD shown in Fig. 2(a), 
the gain dip of narrow bandwidth will result 
in serious high order dispersions. First order 
dispersion accelerates fast light without pulse 
distortion. Higher order dispersion not only 
distorts pulse shape as is shown in Fig. 1(a), 
but also delays pulse and slows down fast 
light. Fig. 1(e) shows the pulse peak power 
delay time Tpeak, the group delay time Td0 
calculated from Eq.(26) with TPD, and the 
group delay time Td0 calculated for the case 
without TPD. One can see that, |Td0| of the 
case with TPD is much larger than that of the 
 8
Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) also show the 
accumulated gain and phase shift, 
respectively, for the case with Pc0= 0.1 mW. 
The wide bandwidth of the gain dip for this 
case decreases high order dispersions so that 
pulse shape maintains better. For this case, 
2aγ = 0.0101 ms2, we have Tw2= 0.44 ms 
from Eq.(31) and pulse compression owing 
to 2aγ  is slight. From Fig. 3(f), one can see 
that, including only up to the fourth order 
dispersion, Pa(4)(t) is about the same as the 
pulse shape calculated from Eq.(27). The 
resulting FWHM pulse width is slightly 
narrowed and is 0.472 ms. The fast light 
slowed down due to the third order 
dispersion is less significant than the case 
with Pc0= 0.5 mW. 
(iii) Pc0= 2.5 mW 
From the results shown above, it seems 
that we may enhance average negative group 
index and increases the absolute value of 
pulse delay time by increasing Pc0. However 
the increase of input control beam power not 
only enhances the first order dispersion 
coefficient 1aφ , but also higher order 
dispersion coefficients akφ (k>1). The 
enhanced higher order dispersion coefficients 
may result in serious pulse shape distortion 
and slowing down fast light. For example, 
Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) show the same case as 
Figs. 1(a) and 1(f), respectively, except that 
Pc0= 2.5 mW and input pulse shape is 
enlarged twenty times in Fig. 4(a). One can 
see that 1aφ =   -0.41 ms, which is about 
80% pulse width, but the combined effect of 
higher order dispersions decreases pulse peak 
power delay time to be -0.144 ms (-4320 
average group index) and seriously distorts 
pulse shape. From Fig. 4(b), Pa(11)(t) is not 
able to approximate the pulse shape 
calculated from Eq.(27). The inclusion of 
more high order terms is required. It is 
noticed that Pa(2)(t) is slightly broadened 
instead of narrowing. For this case, 2aγ  = 
0.0918 ms2, which is large enough to 
broaden pulse width. From Eq.(31), Tw2= 
0.509 ms. Because Tw2 is close to 0.5 ms 
input pulse width, Pa(2)(t) almost overlaps 
Pa(1)(t) in Fig. 4(f). Careful system parameter 
optimization is able to improve the absolute 
value of peak power delay time under a 
certain constraint of pulse shape distortion 
[13]. However, as the first order dispersion is 
enhanced, higher order dispersions are 
usually enhanced accordingly. The 
optimization should compromise between the 
first order dispersion and higher order 
dispersions. 
 
四、計畫成果自評 
 
Fast light can be realized by utilizing the 
CPO effect in an EDFA, in which a pulse 
superimposing on a strong CW control beam 
is launched into the EDFA. Pulse depletes 
metastable population density. Pump power 
is absorbed more when metastable 
population density is depleted. In literatures, 
the perturbation method analyzing the fast 
light in an EDFA did not consider this pump 
power depletion. Thus the CPO effect is 
under estimated and the derived gain 
coefficient and propagation constant are 
inaccurate. We have developed the 
perturbation method for solving the time 
varying parts of the signal power, pump 
power, and metastable population density. 
The coupled equations of the spectral 
components of the signal power, pump power, 
and metastable population density are 
derived. From the coupled equations, we can 
accurately solve the gain coefficient and 
propagation constant of the fast light in an 
EDFA. It is found that pulse gain and 
negative group velocity are over and under 
estimated, respectively, if temporal pump 
depletion is not considered. From the solved 
gain coefficient and propagation constant, we 
also study the pulse delay time and shape 
distortion resulting from high order 
dispersions induced by CPO. The gain 
dispersion resulting from accumulated gain is 
shown. Accumulated gain is the integration 
of gain coefficient along an EDF, which is an 
even function of frequency. The second order 
gain dispersion may symmetrically broaden 
 10
erbium-doped fiber amplifier,” submitted 
to JOSA B. 
[15] S. Wen and S. Chi,” DCF-based fiber 
Raman amplifiers with fiber grating 
reflectors for tailoring accumulated- 
dispersion spectra,” Opt. Comm., 272, pp. 
247-251, 2007. 
[16] S. Wen, C.-C. Chen, and J.-W. Ou,” 
Optimizing the incoherent pump spectrum 
of low-gain-ripple distributed fiber Raman 
amplifiers for a given main incoherent 
pump wavelength,” Opt. Express., 15, pp. 
45-55, 2007. 
 
六、圖表 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: With input control beam power Pc0= 0.5 
mW, (a) input and output pulse shapes, (b) pump 
power temporal variation and normalized metastable 
population density at EDF output end, (c) gain 
coefficient spectra at several distances, (d) 
propagation constant spectra at several distances, (e) 
pulse peak power delay time Tpeak and the group delay 
time Td0 along EDF evaluated at Ω =0, and (f) output 
pulse shapes Pa(M)(t) synthesized up to several M 
dispersion orders and the approximate solution with 
TPD calculated from Eq.(27) without dispersion 
expansion. The exact solution is solved from 
Eqs.(1)-(3). The approximate solutions with and 
without TPD are shown in figures (a)-(e) for 
comparison. 
