 II
中文摘要 
本文利用數值模擬，探討流體在經過閃電形凹槽微結構時的混合特徵，和在微流道中
產生之流動現象進行研究。此微混合器是利用流道的上\下面佈置閃電形凹槽，以產生混沌
移流的混合效應；閃電形凹槽設計以45°斜線，在流道寬三分之二處產生90°之轉角，形成
像閃電般的凹槽，使流體產生迴流的現象。利用截面速度向量圖、煙線圖、截面濃度分佈
圖等，探討不同幾何參數的影響，了解各參數對微流體混合效率的影響。當流道中佈置閃
電形凹槽時，可使液體產生很強的側流作用，在傾斜45度的斜邊上增添90度的轉角，能使
液體流經此轉角產生液體迴流現象，可增加液體間的接觸面積和滯留於此轉角的時間。經
由設計不同的參數來探討對於迴流現象對混合的效率。結果顯示在雷諾數低時，凹槽和流
道的深度比為1:2、轉角距離為30µm，可得到較好的混合效應。 
 
關鍵字：閃電形凹槽、迴流現象、煙線。   
 
英文摘要 
This study utilizes the numerical simulations to discuss the flow and mixing characteristics 
whereas the fluids pass through the microchannel with lightning-grooved microstructures. We 
place the lightning grooves at the top and/or bottom side of the floors in the micromixer to 
generate the chaotic advection. The lightning grooves are designed by setting the oblique straight 
groove at the angle of 45°, and creating the right angle corner at the 2/3 width of the channel. 
And then we investigate the influences of various geometric parameters on mixing in terms of 
velocity vector diagram, streak line diagram and cross-sectional concentration distribution. A 
stronger transverse flow can be created by placing the slanted grooves on the bottom floor. 
Vortex flows can be seen at the corners of the grooves with the lightning grooves on the floors, 
and it can increase the contact areas between fluids and the detaining time in the corners. The 
results demonstrate that whereas Reynolds number is low, the ratio of groove depth and channels 
depth is equal to 1:2 and corner distance is at 30µm, the mixing effect can be improved much. 
 
Keywords: lightning grooves, vortex flow, streak line.
 2
物而言，紊流產生的剪應力會造成破壞其基本特性。利用混沌移流的效應來加強流體混合
時，還有另一的優點，就是僅需單一管道，可避免太多樣本附著於管壁上。以混沌移流的
方式加強混合效應的微混合器約可分成三種，第一種為利用電滲透流中流場界達電位的改
變，使流體在接近壁面的流動方向改變，進而發生混沌移流。第二種為利用微流道在三維
空間的轉折，使流體在流動中不斷地改變流動方向，混沌移流的效應也因而產生[5]。第三
種為利用流道上設計特殊形狀的凹槽或凸塊，使欲混合之流體在流過此特殊的凹槽或凸塊
時，會將一種流體帶至另一種流體的區域，由混沌移流的作用下，以致混合完成。2001年，
Bertsch等人[6]將現有商品化的混合器縮小化，建立兩種在壁面上具有不同幾何形狀突起的
微流道，又稱為靜態微混合器，一種為網格交錯式，另一種為左右螺旋網格式，並強調其
壓力降較一般被動式混和器來得小，但此種混合器需要特殊的製程才能製作完成。2002年，
Johnson 等人[7]提出一種管道上具有斜線凹槽的微混合器（SGM），凹槽的傾斜角度為 45
度，他們發現此混合器中在流道內產生了很強的側向傳輸作用，這就是混沌移流的主要特
徵。2002 年，Stroock 等人[8]在微管道上設計交錯式箭尾形狀的幾何形狀凹槽，稱為交錯
式箭尾微混合器（SHM），並以斜線凹槽和平滑管道作比較，顯示其混沌移流對混合的加強。
在過去的文獻中顯示在 SGM的流場中，流體只能產生單向的旋轉及拉伸，所以 SGM造成
的混合效應小於 SHM；雖然在具有較深凹槽的 SGM中可以產生較混亂的流場，但仍不足
以造成強烈的混沌移流效應[9]。2004 年，Kim等人[10]探討一種流道底部為傾斜凹槽而頂
部為等間距嵌入的直線段凸出物，稱之為障礙嵌入微混合器，他們發現在流道橫截面的流
場呈現一組雙曲線似的流線，此流場會造成流體雙向的旋轉及拉伸，因此導致非常有效的
混沌移流效應[4]；這表示在流道內的上下壁面同時設計凹槽和/或突起物，將可加強混沌移
流的效應。2005年，Howell等人[11]在流道上下壁面交錯放置斜線凹槽和 V型凹槽，他們
認為在放置斜線凹槽的區域會在流道中產生上下兩個渦流，而在放置 V型凹槽的區域會在
流道中產生左右兩個渦流，以此交錯置放的凹槽設計會產生很大的混沌移流作用，但是事
實上對稱圖樣的凹槽對混合效果提供的助益是有限的。2007 年 Wang 等人[12]設計出交叉
重疊式入口的凹槽微混合器，能使流體同時存在有橫向和縱向的流動方向，使入口流在匯
集處明顯產生出分流，轉向支流轉彎對流場產生渦流現象，提供下游流場縱向速度成分，
加強混合液體間的對流。2008年，Yang等人[13]在傾斜凹槽的微混合器中，凹槽旁再增加
一個新連接凹槽，稱之為新連結槽混合器，發現流體順著傾斜凹槽流經新連接凹槽時產生
螺旋流線，表示增加此連結槽會使流線呈現旋轉效應，可加強混沌移流的效應，混合效率
比傾斜形混合器增加 50%。由以上的文獻回顧可知，僅有少數文獻探討在微混合器的流道
上及下壁面設計具有特殊形狀的凹槽，而分析其流場的特徵，但此種設計是可以造成較強
烈的混沌移流；另外，SHM中使用了交錯式箭尾形狀的幾何形狀凹槽，此種設計的原理是
將流體在經過此凹槽時，流體能由兩個方向沿著凹槽到達另一流體所佔的區域，而彼此進
行混合，以致其具有最好的混合效果，但並沒有其他文獻對於此種設計原理提出不同的幾
何特徵設計；除此之外，凹槽微結構的幾何特徵（例如：圖樣的對稱性、單雙面微結構及
其凹陷的特徵、圖樣與流動方向的關係等）對混合效率有極大的相關性，但並沒有文獻在
這部份進行深入的分析。 
本文利用數值模擬方法，探討流體在經過閃電形凹槽微結構時的混合特徵。此微混合
器是利用流道的上\下面佈置閃電形凹槽，閃電形凹槽設計以45°斜線，在流道寬三分之二處
產生90°之轉角，形成像閃電般的凹槽。利用三維穩態的流場和濃度場，來描述微系統中兩
種不同液體的流動特性。文中首先比較流道中斜直形和閃電形凹槽對流場的影響，接著討
 4
得到更好的結果，則必須增加格點的數目。但若是增加格點數，將必須犧牲可模擬的流道
長度，所以在經過格點的測試後，受限於軟體的最大格點數，將不以模擬微流道實際長度
為目標，而以模擬結果正確為目標。進行格點的測試時，因受電腦的限制格點數最多只能
到達100萬，以Y軸格點數在17~97之間做模擬測試，發現在37和47個格點時，出口處的混
合指標只有2%的差異，所以Y軸以37格點為基準。 
          
    圖二              (A)文獻中[8]和(B)數值模擬結果的截面濃度分佈圖。 
 
結果與討論 
首先，把微流道固定在相同的幾何參數下，考慮斜直形跟閃電形凹槽微管道對流場的
影響，斜直形凹槽為在流道上設計45°斜線凹槽，如圖三(A)，黑色面積為凹槽的位置；閃
電形凹槽設計以45°斜線，在流道寬三分之二處產生90°之轉角，形成像閃電般的凹槽，如
圖四(A)，黑色面積為凹槽的位置。在此微流道寬200µm、凹槽深度為14µm、微流道高度是
凹槽深度的五倍、凹槽寬度100µm、Re為10，而流道中有六個凹槽。圖三(B)至(E)表示斜直
形凹槽微管道中不同位置的截面速度向量圖，由模擬的結果可得，流體流經凹槽時，會產
生很強的側流現象，使流體沿著凹槽順流移動，經過流道中央後，和另一種流體接觸，然
後碰觸到微流道壁面產生旋轉流，再由下而上流動，轉向流回微流道中原來的另一半位置，
以增加流體混合的效果。圖四(B)至(E)表示閃電形凹槽微管道中不同位置的截面速度向量
圖。發現到流體流經凹槽時，也會產生很強的側流作用，同樣地，使流體沿著凹槽移動，
經過流道中央，和另一種流體接觸，碰觸到微流道壁面，再由下而上流動，轉向流回微流
道中原來的另一半位置。而流經凹槽中轉角時（如圖四(C)的紅色框線內），另一種流體會
流入凹槽內，產生流體迴流的現象，即流體不再循著凹槽斜向下游移動，這表示在轉角處
附近（如圖四(A)的紅色框線內）會有一個小的渦流，迴流的現象會增加不同液體界面的接
觸面積，並讓液體產生滯留的現象，增加液體間接觸的時間，可增加混合的效率。 
 
(A) 
                   
               (B)           (C)          (D)          (E) 
圖三 (A)斜直形凹槽流道上視圖。(B)、(C)、(D)、(E)為斜直形凹槽位置在 168µm、218µm、
268µm和 318µm速度向量圖，凹槽區塊為黑色斜直形。 
 
(A) 
 6
場的影響，圖六為由出口的往入口的方向觀看的截面濃度圖，兩種液體經過閃電形凹槽方
向相反，圖六(A)，和閃電形凹槽方向一致，圖六(B)，兩種不同凹槽的混合器。由圖六(A)
中的(d)、(e)和(f)，因凹槽方向轉向，液體流經相反方向之凹槽，而把流向圖中下方的流道
側壁之液體再帶往上方側壁，因液體無法碰到側壁產生螺旋流動，使得混合的效果並不明
顯。如圖六(B)中，因為兩種流體在流道下游處相互擠壓，粉紅色流體會流向圖中下方的流
道側壁，讓流場產生一個很明顯的順時針方向螺旋流，因此造成較明顯的混合結果。 
 
(上視圖) 
                               
      (a)          (b)          (c)         (d)         (e)          (f) 
(A) 
 
(上視圖) 
                               
(a)         (b)          (c)         (d)         (e)          (f) 
(B) 
圖六  (a)90µm、(b)600µm、(c)1100µm、(d)1600µm、(e)2100µm、(f)2600µm為(A)閃電形相
反凹槽位置之上視圖和截面圖(B) 為閃電形凹槽位置之上視圖和截面圖，上視圖凹槽
區塊為黑色閃電形。 
 
在相同的流道寬度和厚度，藉由圖七中微流道的截面圖和上視圖來探討凹槽的深度對
混合效果的影響。由圖七(A)至(C)，凹槽深度為微流道厚度的1/4、1/3和1/2，發現當凹槽的
深度越深，能驅使更多流體流進凹槽，使兩種液體的接觸面由左右對稱的面，慢慢的迴轉
成上下接觸的面，能讓兩種不同的液體都接觸到微流道兩邊的壁面，讓兩流體慢慢的旋轉
改變混合接觸面的方向。圖七(D)中，凹槽深度和微流道厚度相同，發現當凹槽太深，反而
使流體在凹槽中產生死區，只有一種流體會在凹槽中流動；因凹槽深度太深，液體一直停
留在凹槽中，無法從凹槽流出產生螺旋轉動，所以太深的凹槽反而會影響到液體的流動；
而流體流經轉角產生的渦流現象，因為凹槽深度太深而減弱，所以適當深度之凹槽，才能
使混合效果增加。 
 8
也發生側流效應和迴流現象。在流道中（如圖九(A)）取以上下和左右對稱的四個煙線圖，
煙線由流道入口處上下方出發；下方粉紅和藍色煙線以螺旋的方式前進，當煙線碰撞到管
壁，會產生大的漩渦轉動，在此流道中因上方無任何凹槽，所以上方煙線的螺旋轉動，並
不像下方有閃電形凹槽的煙線螺旋轉動的強烈。當在流道上下面都使用閃電形凹槽，會使
得混合效應也發生在微流道的上壁面。如圖九(B)，上下方的粉紅和藍色煙線碰撞到管壁和
凹槽時，螺旋前進的煙線產生迴旋的轉動而產生四個渦流現象，比起單面閃電形凹槽，因
煙線碰撞到管壁產生一個渦流現象，雙面閃電形凹槽能加快使煙線發生渦流，提高液體混
合的效率，加快渾沌移流的效應，因此雙面閃電形凹槽比單面的閃電形凹槽，產生混沌移
流的效果更強。 
  
(A) 
  
(B) 
圖九 (A)單面閃電形凹槽示意圖，(B)雙面閃電形凹槽示意圖。左圖為上視圖、右圖為凹槽
流線圖 
 
結論 
本研究中利用數值模擬，模擬幾何圖樣被動式微混合器，微流體在經過不同圖樣特徵
的微結構對混合效率的影響，對微流體產生之物理現象進行研究，此微混合器是利用微流
體在低雷諾數下經過有閃電形凹槽圖樣之雙面凹槽，使流體產生迴流的現象。探討此迴流
的現象，再設計凹槽方向、深度和轉角間距對速度和濃度場分佈的影響。最後，分析單面
凹槽和雙面凹槽對混合特徵的效應。發現到閃電形凹槽使流體單方向側向流動比凹槽相反
側像流動混合效率還佳，單方向側流能碰到下方管壁產生螺旋流，閃電形凹槽方向相反時，
因藍色液體擠壓粉紅色液體使混合接觸面無法碰到微流道管壁產生螺旋流，造成混合效率
降低。閃電形凹槽隨著雷諾數降低，分子間的擴散增加，經過轉角產生迴流現象越明顯，
加寬轉角間距，反而使液體流動的方向無法如斜直形凹槽的流場般順著凹槽流至流道測壁
面，因閃電形凹槽之形狀改變，使液體無法經由凹槽把液體帶向另一邊。單面凹槽碰到管
壁產生一個渦流現象，但雙面閃電形凹槽能在微流道的上下壁產生四個渦流流動的效果，
加快渾沌移流的效應，因此雙面閃電形凹槽比單面的閃電形凹槽，產生混沌移流的效果更
強。 
 
誌謝 
本計畫感謝國家高速網路與計算中心提供模擬軟體，使本計畫得以順利進行，特此致
 10
計畫成果自評 
 
1. 研究內容與原計畫相符程度 
本計畫重點工作為微混和器之設計最佳化，內容包括 
(1) 相關文獻的收集：已將相關文獻收集至2008年。 
(2) 數值格點的測試：已與重要文獻比較格點測試結果。 
(3) 結構特徵的設計：已探討上下壁面具有凸塊或凹槽結構的設計。 
(4) 相關參數的分析：已探討相關物理及幾何參數的效應對為混合氣的影響。 
(5) 數值結果的處理：已利用濃度圖、向量圖和煙線圖表示流體混合的特徵。 
(6) 參數設計最佳化：已找出最佳的幾何參數及操作參數。 
(7) 計畫報告的撰寫：已完成精簡報告。 
 
2. 達成預期目標情況 
預期完成的工作項目為 
(1) 針對相關微混合器資料建立完整的文獻回顧。 
(2) 測試商用軟體（CFDRC）結構性網格與非結構性網格的耦合使用精確度。 
(3) 進行指標結果的比對。 
(4) 進行微結構圖樣特徵的效應探討。 
(5) 完成微結構特徵的設計與初步分析。 
(6) 完成相關幾何參數與操作參數對混合特性的研究。 
(7) 完成截面濃度分佈的量化與混合指標的計算。 
(8) 完成微混合器設計參數最佳化。 
以上目標皆已完成。 
 
3. 研究成果之學術或應用價值 
計畫中所設計的微混合器，採用製程簡單的被動式微混合器，被動元件具備製作容易和
低耗能的特性，可降低整個生化系統的製作成本；另外，設計較短微流道之微混合器來避
免大壓降的產生和樣本及試劑的損失，將可提供實際應用上的最佳化設計概念；而且單一
流道微混合器的設計，可和前後端的次系統作適當的連接，以達到整個微小化系統的目的。
這方面技術的建立將可避免未來微流系統建立的過程中，受到已有技術與專利的限制，提
供微流系統設計製作一片更廣闊的天空。 
 
4. 是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利 
已發表一篇文章於國際研討會。而將發表一篇文章於國內研討會。 
 
5. 主要發現或其他有關價值 
(1) 設計一新型微混合器，利用微流體在低雷諾數下經過有閃電形凹槽圖樣，使流體產生迴
流的現象。 
(2) 分析單面凹槽和雙面凹槽對混合特徵的效應。單面凹槽碰到管壁產生一個渦流現象，但
雙面閃電形凹槽能在微流道的上下壁產生四個渦流流動的效果，加快渾沌移流的效應，因
此雙面閃電形凹槽比單面的閃電形凹槽，產生混沌移流的效果更強。 
  
Chaotic passive micromixers with microstructures placed on the top 
and bottom floors of channel 
 
J. J. Chen*a, Y. R. Laib, J. D. Linb 
a Department of Biomechatronics Engineering, National Pingtung University of Science and 
Technology, 1, Hseuh Fu Road, Nei Pu, Pingtung 912, Taiwan, ROC; 
bDept. of Mechanical Engineering, National Chiao Tung University, 1001 Ta Hsueh Rd., Hsinchu, 
Taiwan 300, ROC 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
The objective of this study is to present chaotic micromixers in which a series of microstructures are placed on the top 
and bottom floors of channels. Passive micromixers fabricated by MEMS technologies with crosswise grooves and 
ridges are considered. Numerical simulations using the commercial software CFD-ACE(U) are employed to predict the 
effects of various patterns of microstructures on mixing efficiency with the range of Reynolds number from 0.05 to 50. 
The influences of non-dimensional parameters such as the Reynolds number as well as the geometrical parameters on the 
mixing performance are presented in terms of the mixing index. Micromixers which are made of PDMS are used to 
investigate the mixing characteristics influenced by the different kinds of microstructures. A significant amount of 
stirring resulting from chaotic mixing can be seen due to the fluids flowing through the crosswise ridges embedded on 
the top and bottom floors of channels. While Re is greater than 1, the mixing index of the micromixer with crosswise 
ridges starts to increase as Re increases. This means that the flow field in this micromixer results in efficient chaotic 
mixing. Simulation results are presented to compare with the experimental data, and a very good agreement can be 
achieved. Finally, various numbers of the crosswise ridges with the same orientation in one cycle of the channels are 
investigated to present to the mixing performance in the microchannels. An optimal design can be found in our works. 
 
Keywords: top and bottom floors, crosswise ridges, cycle. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
In the last decade, microfluidic technologies have been one of the most interesting topics that span several disciplines. 
Some products have been mass-production using MEMS. Microfluidic devices ensuring homogenization of solutions of 
reagents have been developed for a broad range of applications. Effective mixing is important in many miniaturized 
multi-component flow systems. Fast mixing can reduce the analyzing time and improve reaction efficiency in industrial 
applications. Traditionally, both stirring and creation of turbulent flow are exploited to improve the mixing characteristics 
in macroscopic world. In micro-scale system, the dimensions are too small that Reynolds numbers exceeding 1000 are 
not feasible and only a laminar and uniaxial flow of the liquid can be observed (Reynolds number indicates the ratio of 
inertia to viscous forces and is expressed as Re=UinW/ν with Uin being the inlet flow velocity and W the width of the 
microchannel. ν is the kinematic viscosity.). So rapidly mixing in microfluidic analytical devices cannot be achieved by 
convectional methods. In a typical microfluidic device, the mixing of two or more fluid streams is by virtue of molecular 
diffusion which is driven by a concentration difference and is a rather slow process. Based on Fick’s law, diffusion speed 
increases with the rise of the contact surface of two liquids [1]. Besides the time taken when molecules travel or diffuse 
is increasing in proportion to the square value of the distance and further depends on the diffusivity of the diffusing 
compound [2]. In order to speed up mixing, the essentials of a micromixer based on diffusion are, therefore, the 
maximization of the contact area of different fluids and the minimization of the diffusing distance. Among these 
technologies a number of micromixers have been developed. These can be classified into two groups: active and passive 
micromixers. Though the time and length of the channel required for active mixing are less than for passive mixing, the 
active micromixers are difficult to fabricate, clean and integrate into microfluidic systems. The pronounced advantage of 
passive micromixers is that utilize no external power except the mechanism used to drive the fluids into the microfluidic 
systems. During the period, studies of passive mixing in micromixers have been conducted. Nguyen and Wu presented 
Microfluidics, BioMEMS, and Medical Microsystems VI, edited by Wanjun Wang, Claude Vauchier,
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6886, 68860I, (2008) · 0277-786X/08/$18 · doi: 10.1117/12.761971
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6886  68860I-1
  
However, when the barriers are periodically placed built or the slanted grooves can be patterned on the top surface of the 
microchannel in the micromixers. The stronger the helical flow becomes, the higher the order of mixing that can be 
achieved [25]. Referred to the previous works, bas-relief structures on two opposite walls lead to a significant increase of 
the mixing performance. However, few researchers investigated the influence of various geometric parameters of a SGM 
on the mixing characteristics. 
The objective of the present study is to demonstrate a designed chaotic micromixer in which a series of crosswise ridges 
or grooves are etched onto the top or bottom floors of channel which is fabricated using MEMS technology. A helical 
flow was realized by slanted patterns which were fabricated onto the top or bottom floors of microchannels. A 
three-dimensional fluid field is used to describe the flow characteristics in the micro system. The effects of 
non-dimensional parameters such as the Reynolds number, based on the inlet velocity on flow characteristics are 
examined. Flow experiments are performed and compared with the results of numerical simulations. Finally, the 
influences of the number of the crosswise ridges with the same orientation for a cycle along the downchannel on the 
mixing process are presented in terms of the mixing characteristics. 
 
2. MATHEMATICAL MODEL AND NUMERICAL METHODOLOGY 
 
In this study, the mixing characteristics of two liquids entering the two top branches of a crosswise grooves micromixer, 
subjected to a specific inlet pumping velocity at various values of geometrical and/or operational parameters are 
examined. The numerical simulations are performed for the mixing performance of different kinds of liquid flows inside 
the microchannels. It is assumed the variations of the concentration do not modify the viscosity and the density of the 
fluid; the channel walls are assumed to be smooth; and the wall surface tension forces are neglected. 
The governing equations consist of conservation equations of mass and momentum, and species. The conservation 
equations of mass and momentum are solved to determine the flow field of the liquids. The conservation equation of 
mass, also known as the continuity equation or the law of conservation of mass, states that the rate of accumulation of 
mass per unit volume plus the net flow rate of mass efflux per unit volume are zero. In symbolic notation, the continuity 
equation can be expressed as follows 
0=⋅∇ Ur  (1) 
where U
r
 is the fluid velocity vector. 
The momentum equation for a continuum is the analogue of Newton’s second law for a point mass. The momentum 
principle is the time rate of change of the linear momentum of a material region is equal to the sum of the forces on the 
region. In symbolic notation the momentum equation is ( ) ( )UPUU rrr ∇∇+−∇=⋅∇ µρ  (2) 
where P is the pressure and µ is the fluid viscosity. 
Species transport by pressure-driven flows occurs as a result of convection and diffusion and can be described by the 
combined species convection-diffusion equation. Fick's second law is used in non-steady or continually changing state 
diffusion, i.e., when the concentration within the diffusion volume changes with respect to time. In symbolic notation the 
momentum equation is ( ) ( )φφρ ∇∇=⋅∇ DUr  (3) 
where D is the mass transfer coefficient, and φ  is the mass concentration. This equation must be solved together with 
Eqs. (1) and (2) in order to achieve computational coupling between the velocity field solution and the concentration 
distribution. 
A computational fluid dynamics package (CFD-ACE+, CFD Research Corporation, CA, USA) using a finite element 
approach is utilized to solve three dimensional flow fields as well as two-fluid mixing. A nonlinear steady-state algorithm 
is used for hydrodynamic calculations, and a linear steady-state one is used for the solving of the diffusion-convection 
equation. Three dimensional structured grids are employed, and the SIMPLEC method is adopted for pressure-velocity 
coupling, and then all spatial discretizations are performed using the first-order upwind scheme. The simulation is 
implemented in steady state. A fixed-velocity condition is set to the boundary at the inlet of the mixer, and the boundary 
condition at the outlet is set at a fixed pressure. The concentration of species is normalized to be one and zero for the 
inlet in the right side and left side, respectively. The fluid properties are set to the physical and thermodynamic properties 
of water at 300K. The solution is considered to be converged when the relative error of all dependent variables are less 
than 10-4 between the sweeps n and n+1. 
In the present study, we consider some different configurations of the flow system. The general configuration consists of 
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6886  68860I-3
— —
(B) (D)
Micro Mixer
8 yr inge Pump
High-Speed Crmerr
 
 
 
The wafer is rinsed in DI water and dried with nitrogen as shown in Fig. 3(A). After pouring the PDMS on the wafer 
with patterned SU-8, upper and lower plate structures are fabricated by a PDMS (polydimethylsiloxane) molding process 
using a SU-8 mold as shown in Fig. 3(B). The microchannels are designed by forming molds of upper and lower plate 
structure using conventional planar lithography. Methanol is used as a surfactant to prevent two oxygen plasma treated 
PDMS replicas from being bonded irreversibly without proper alignment. After O2 plasma treatment and bonding, finally 
we fabricate micromixers that have 3D microchannels. In Fig. 3(C), it shows a designed chaotic micromixer in which a 
series of crosswise ridges were etched onto the bottom floor of channel. And a series of crosswise ridges are etched onto 
the top and bottom floors of channel as shown in Fig. 3(D). 
       
Figure 3. Schematic diagram illustrating the microfabrication process of the PDMS micromixers. 
 
Figure 4 shows the SEM pictures of the microchannel for one typical version of micromixers realized in this study. The 
width, thickness and length of the microchannels are 750 µm, 45 µm and 4 cm, respectively, for all three microchannels. 
The grooves or ridges are 100 µm long, 15 µm deep. 
  
Figure 4. The SEM pictures of the microchannel. 
 
For the mixing experiment in pressure-driven flow, two different fluids are injected into microchannels by a syringe 
pump (KD Scientific, Programmable Syringe Pump) at a preset constant flow rate. The experimental setup for testing 
performances of fabricated micromixers is shown in Fig. 5. One syringe is loaded with the DI water; the other is loaded 
with the colorful ink. The working fluids enter into inlet channels, flow through the micromixer, and finally go out 
through an outlet channel. In order to investigate the effect of the mixing processes on the mixing performance, several 
experiments are carried out with various flow rates for different micromixers. Once the steady state is reached, the color 
change along the downchannel direction is captured by means of a microscope and a high speed camera (IDT, X-Stream 
High-Speed Cameras, XS-4) at 40 × magnifications with a graphic grabber system (VCD-Gear TV Plus). Images are 
analyzed using image processing software (MyImgPro). Gray-scale values across the channel width at different locations 
are used to determine the relative amount of mixing. 
 
Figure 5. Experimental setup. 
 
We normalize the color intensities of pictures, taken in experiments of each micromixer, using equation (6) to get the 
normalized color intensity of a pixel. 
minmax
min
II
III ini −
−=         (6) 
where Imin is the minimum intensity of a pixel that is measured from the mixer when the DI water flows into two inlets. 
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6886  68860I-5
  
 
The numerical mixing characteristics of the above micromixers are shown in Fig. 7. The flow conditions are the same as 
the cases in Fig. 6 except for the crosswise groove mixer with crosswise grooves on the bottom floors. In Y-type mixer, 
two fluids meet each other at the centerline along the downchannel in Fig. 7(A). This result is the same as the results 
shown in Fig. 6(A). The crosswise grooves of the crosswise groove mixer are symmetric with the central line and the 
mixing performance will be similar to the results shown in Fig. 7(A) when the inlet velocities of two fluids are equal. 
However, the interface of two fluids is not clearly observed and the mixing is enhanced a little bit in Fig. 7(B). It’s 
because the velocities of two inlets are a little different. The fluid with larger inertia force can push the other fluid away 
from the central line of the channel and the interface of two fluids is no longer coincident with the symmetric axis. Then 
a little enhancement of mixing performance can be seen. The slanting direction of the ridge at the top floor is from left to 
right and that at the bottom floor is from right to left. The fluid flows along the ridge and then down the ridge. The 
contact areas of two fluids increase and the diffusion distance decreases. The mixing can rise in a larger value and it can 
be seen in Fig. 7(C). 
     
(A)                                 (B)                                 (C) 
Figure 7. Numerical mixing results of (A) Y-type mixer, (B) crosswise groove mixer with crosswise grooves on the bottom floors and 
(C) crosswise ridge mixer with slanted ridges on the top and bottom floors. 
 
Figure 8 shows experimental results using crosswise ridge mixer with ridges on the top and bottom floors at five 
representative positions along the downchannel direction. The influences of various inlet velocities on the mixing 
characteristics are plotted. Reynolds numbers, equal to 0.05, 0.1, 1, 10 and 50, are considered, which correspond to the 
inlet flow velocities of 0.00025, 0.0005, 0.005, 0.05 and 0.25m/s. Figure 8 for the case of Re equal to 50 indicates that 
good mixing at the end of the channel have been successfully achieved. The interface between streams is indistinct as it 
moves downstream. By the naked eye, one can obviously tell that the mixing rate in the channel increases with 
increasing Reynolds number. 
     
(A) 
     
(B) 
     
(C) 
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6886  68860I-7
10*00 0 t.
 
 
other part of the channel which is originally occupied by the other fluid. These images show the stretching and folding of 
two fluids and the mixing can be improved. 
 
 
 
 
(A)           (B) 
Figure 10. (A) The vector planes and (B) the mixing characteristics at four cross-section areas along the down channel. 
 
A mixing cycle is composed of two consecutive regions of ridges; the direction of the slanting direction of the ridges 
switches with respect to the centerline of the channel from one region to the other. Sixteen, eight, four and two ridges are 
placed on the floors in one cycle are represented in Fig. 11(A), 11(B), 11(C) and 11(D), and the mixing index is 0.74, 
0.69, 0.61 and 0.44, respectively, at Reynolds number equal to 50. The orientations of the ridges keep the same in half a 
cycle. One fluid flows along and down the ridges, and can be directed to the other part of the channel, shown in Fig. 
11(A). It enhances mixing performance. The more ridges in one cycle, the higher mixing index are achieved. The mixing 
index is 0.75 for sixteen ridges placing in half a cycle shown in Fig. 9. And then the mixing performance achieves to a 
maximum value as the number of the ridges in one cycle is equal to eight. The switch of the slanting direction of the 
ridges redirects the fluids toward the centerline of the channel. The fluids are directed to the other part of the channel and 
then soon redirected back to the original part when the number of the ridges in one cycle is equal to. This means less 
contact areas are provided along the downchannel, poor mixing is achieved. 
  
(A) 
  
(B) 
  
(C) 
  
(D) 
Figure 11. The mixing characteristics for various numbers of the crosswise ridges with the same orientation in one cycle of the 
channels 
 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
 
In the present study, we have demonstrated the mixing characteristics of two fluids in a crosswise grooves or ridges 
micromixer by numerical studies associated with the micro channels with various inlet velocities which is fabricated in 
PDMS by standard MEMS technology and covered by a Pyrex glass chip through bonding technology. A 
three-dimensional computational model is proposed to perform the mixing of two fluids. The results are presented in 
terms of the distributions of the concentrations. Fluid flow simulations are performed to investigate the mixing index of 
the liquid fluids and/or the velocity vectors at the cross-section regions. For the microchannels with the crosswise ridges 
at the top and bottom floors, the downchannel flows and the transvesely rotational flows result in helical flows along the 
downchannel. It is clear that the mixing performance is significantly influenced by the chaotic advection flow is also 
dependent upon the values of Reynolds number. Experimental results show that micromixer with crosswise ridges 
embedded on the top and bottom floors of channels has great mixing efficiency and the mixing index increases 82% 
when the Reynolds number is about 50. The numerical results are also compared with experimental measurements and 
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6886  68860I-9
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96 - 2221 - E - 020 - 021 - 
計畫名稱 流道具有上下面微結構之渾沌移流微混和器 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳志堅，國立屏東科技大學生物機電工程系，助理教授 
會議時間地點 San Jose, California, USA. 2008,1,19-2008,1,24 
會議名稱 SPIE, Photonics West 
發表論文題目 Chaotic passive micromixers with microstructures placed on the top and bottom floors of channel 
 
一、參加會議經過 
Photonics West是 SPIE每年一度的大型光機電研討會，每年一月底在美國加州的 San Jose
舉辦，鄰近矽谷地區，每年參加的人數都在增加，以今年為例，有超過 17,000人參加會議，
可以稱的上年度最大的光機電研討會。這會議包含四個主要的項目：Biomedical Optics、Micro 
& Nanofabrication、Lasers and Applications in Science and Engineering和 Integrated 
Optoelectronic Devices，再細分成 85個分項，共有 3,100篇文章在此研討會發表，於一月十
九日至二十四日舉行。 
 
