of the SW network as the wireless skeleton in regional
communication. Finally, we have some conclusions.
2 Mathematical Definition and Property
Usually, computer and communication networks are
represented by graphs where nodes represent processors
and edges represent links between processors. In this paper,
we follow the graph representation in [1]. Let G = (V, E) be
a graph if V is a finite set and E is a subset of {(a, b) |(a, b)
is an unordered pair of V}. We say that V is the node set
and E is the edge set of G. Two nodes a and b are adjacent
if (a, b) E. A path is a sequence of nodes such that two
consecutive nodes are adjacent. A path is delimited by (x0,
x1, x2, … xn-1). A path is called a hamiltonian path if its
nodes are distinct and span V. A cycle is a path of at least
three nodes such that the first node is the same as the last
node. A cycle is called a hamiltonian cycle if its nodes are
distinct except for the first node and the last node and if
they span V. A graph is called hamiltonian if it has a
hamiltonian cycle. A bipartite graph G = (V, E) is a graph
such that V=AB and E is a subset of {( a, b)| aA and b
B}; if G-F remains hamiltonian for any F={a, b} with a
A and b B, then G is 1p-hamiltonian. A graph G is 1-
edge hamiltonian if G-e is hamiltonian for any e  E;
moreover, if there is a hamiltonian path between any pair
of nodes {c, d} with c A and d B, then the bipartite
graph G is hamiltonian laceable.
The generalized honeycomb torus is defined as the
following. Assume that m and n are positive integers where
n is even. Let d be any integer such that (m-d) is an even
number. The generalized honeycomb torus [2,3],
GHT(m,n,d) is the graph with the node set {(i,j)|0 ≤ i < m, 
0 ≤ j < n}such that (i,j) and (k,l) are adjacent if they satisfy
one of the following conditions: (1). i=k and j = l±1( mod
n); (2). j=l and k=i-1 if i+j is even; and (3). i=0, k=m-1,
and l=j+d( mod n) if j is even. When d=0, GHT(m,n,0)
can be called honeycomb rectangular torus, HReT(m, n)
[2].
The spider web network, SW(m,n) is the graph with
the node set {(i,j)|0 ≤ i < m, 0 ≤ j < n}, where m and n are
positive integers with m being even and n probably be odd
in this article, such that (i,j) and (k,l) are adjacent if they
satisfy one of the following conditions: (1). i=k and j =
l±1; (2). j=l and k=i+1( mod m) if i+j is odd or j=n-1; and
(3). j=l, k=i-1( mod m) if i+j is even or j=0. The
configuration of SW(m,n) is shown in Figure 1.
It is proved that GHT(m, n, 0) is 1-edge hamiltonian if
n≥4; 1p-hamiltonian if n ≥6 or m=2, n≥4 [3]. When m and
n are positive integers with n and m-n/2 being even,
GHT(m, n, n/2) is proved 1-edge hamiltonian if n ≥4; 1p-
hamiltonian if n ≥6 or m=2, n≥4 [2,9]. When m and n are
positive integers with m being even, SW(m, n) is proved 1-
edge hamiltonian ifn ≥4; 1p-hamiltonian ifn ≥4 except for
SW(6,5) ([17]-for the case n being even; the case being
odd is graphically proved in this article).Thus, the fault-
tolerance we are engaged in is systematically based.
Moreover, GHT(m, n, 0) , GHT(m, n, n/2) and SW(m, n)
are hamiltonian laceable ifn≥4 [13,16].
Mathematically, the number of links connecting a
node is called the degree. Degree being less can generally
help network economy [21]. However, the minimum
degree of the dual-surveillance based SCADA network for
critical infrastructure paths is three [8,10,11,12]. Three
mechanisms of dual-surveillance based SCADA network
prototypes are aimed to provide: (1). better functionality
just as the human beings can have better vision by two eyes
instead of by one; (2). more fault-tolerance in both nodes
and links than the single-node / ring network for real-time
traffic management; (3). capability of executing efficient /
effective checking or maintaining for a SCADA network in
a systematically sequential-order environment.
3 Graph Proofs for SW Network
Properties via Recursive Embedding
The scope of the dual-nodes SCADA network for
longer paths can conceptually be embedded by a pair of
dual-nodes rings gradually [10,11,12]. Mathematical
properties of such networks can be considered from small-
scale to large-scale or physically embedding with one pair
of dual-node cyclical columns recursively (Figure 2). Once
the 1-edge hamiltonian, 1p-hamiltonian and hamiltonian
laceability properties are found for small-scale SW(m,n),
these properties are possibly be extended to large-scale
SW(m,n) via the concept of embedding a pair of dual-node
cyclical columns in the width dimension; i.e., the m
dimension. However, the embedded place should have at
least one critical link (-i.e., top/bottom link) in the
hamiltonian cycle (for considering 1-edge hamiltonian and
1p-hamiltonian), or in the hamiltonian path (for considering
hamiltonian laceability), and irregular cases need be
considered separately.
Each embedded location of the former hamiltonian
cycle/path can naturally get two end-points when one link
of the hamiltonian cycle/path is broken. These two end-
points can be extended to two arms, which hold the
embedded dual-columns. All nodes of the embedded dual-
columns can be passed just once through "pulse or straight-
line" shapes with expansion to the possible farthest vertical
position and with arms formed by the former hamiltonian
cycle/path. Thus, a hamiltonian cycle/path is found for the
new SW of wider dimension recursively.
The recursive embedding of rings can prove the
hamiltonian properties from small m to large m. The proof
with n being even numbers has been studied [16,17]. The
graph proof in Figure 3 considering n being odd is
necessary for the article’s application purpose.
4 Prototyping SW with Radial-Ring
Pattern for E-Urbanism
4.1 SW for Probably Wired Radial-ring Area
Networks
The SCADA security network considered in a radial-
ring pattern is discussed in this section. Such networks or
districts can be coordinated with the concept of
neighborhood development (planning unit) for urban
planning in terms of both wired and wireless
telecommunication systems.
As mentioned, from historical experiences, the pattern
of settlements often follows the radial-ring pattern.
However, from another point of view, the dominant
building or the dominant district will essentially affect the
traffic flow in a “radial”pattern, or a “radial-ring”pattern
if the service distance is long enough to rather have a ring
path for interaction among different served places. In other
words, the dominant district will naturally generate
essential radial flows of traffic movement on regular days
and also produce a demand of security, which also should
be controlled in a radial-ring pattern for unexpected
conditions.
From such a point of view, configuring a radial-ring
area SCADA network, whose main task is security, is an
ideal conceptual approach especially because: (1). The
radial-ring pattern can be essentially adjusted like the grid
pattern (Keeble, 1969); (2). Mathematical prototypes can
be adapted by virtual indexes or other means; (3). The
farther the distance to the dominant building/district is, the
less security/service the demand can have; hence, some
area of rather long distance to the core may use secondary
GHT/SW area SCADA networks as discussed in [11,12]
(Figure 4, 5).
To have high security and reliability characteristics in
the SCADA network (practically having wired network is
assumed for CCTV image transmission) serving the
dominant building/district, the SW network (-i.e., SW(m,n),
m: even, m≥4, n≥4, except for SW(6,5) for its shortage of
fault-tolerance) can be applied as the main skeleton for the
controlling area, and the links of the SW network can be
linear SW or GHT networks for dual-surveillance tasks of
individual infrastructure-paths. In such a radial-ring
SW+GHT network (Figure 1), even an entire
infrastructure-path encounters occupation or a sudden
significant disaster/attack, other areas still can be
efficiently/effectively controlled.
However, security is not the only objective for this
kind of SW+GHT networks, the network of dual-nodes can
potentially have higher information processing power for
high-quality voiced/videoed images as well as reliability.
Besides, for the considering of the application of large-
scale linear traffic SCADA networks, the feature of
GHT(m,n,0) is that m should be even, and the link
connection of GHT(m,n,0) is rather simpler, compared with
that of GHT(m,n,n/2), the feature of GHT(m,n,n/2) is that
m can be odd or even, and in planar layouts, GHT(m,n,n/2)
can offer rather direct configuration pattern for one-way or
single path traffic, the feature of SW(m,n) is that m should
be even, and SW(m,n) may also be used for linear one-way
or single path [11].
4.2 SW for Wireless Area Networks
The wireless telecommunication system is highly
promoted for its ubiquitous communication and computing
possibilities; however, transmitting reliable, real-time,
quality-assured voiced/videoed images or complex
information are getting more important for advanced
business. SW networks can provide three individual paths
([15] (n: even)) between a pair of bipartite nodes, and this
feature can benefit efficient information processing through
packet-switching mechanism. Except for the package
switching, the radial-ring SW networks can coordinate with
the wireless cellular telecommunication configuration and
can provide a pervasive but an orderly platform.
In general, the honeycomb-like configuration pattern
is applied for area telecommunication. For assuring
quality-transmission, providing interference-free platform
is aimed by applying the frequency-reuse principle and by
regularly configuring six small cells with a central cell to
serve the larger cell [4,20] in this article (Figure 6).
Moreover, the central cell is configured as the node or the
node of a linked-link in the wireless SW network.
Such a configuration can provide an interference-free
platform of transmitting reliable voiced/videoed images for
premium services, or for security tasks, which need clear,
accurate, real-time, fault-tolerant transmission [5,14];
moreover, information can be transmitted from central
small cells to adjacent small cells by different frequencies.
Such a configuration is similar to the establishment of the
central place theory in urban economics [18], and
amorphous areas can also be adaptively composed through
honeycomb-like tessellations [4].
5 Conclusions
Good physical city forms can integrally play the
dominant role in spatial economy, safety. Moreover, after
the 911 event, terrorist or sabotage attacks related to
transportation and telecommunication cannot be
overlooked especially in some critical areas or
infrastructure systems. Hence, reliable, real-time
operational issues, such as fault-tolerance and line-of-sight
availability, are getting more attention in contemporary
counter-terrorism background and vulnerable outdoor or
transportation environments.
Therefore, we propose dual-surveillance and
distributed-intelligence based SCADA (supervisory
control and data acquisition) networks modeled from the
Generalized Honeycomb Torus (GHT) networks and the
Spider Web (SW) network, which is used as the main
skeleton for radial-ring circulation; i.e., the basic
circulation pattern for dominant areas. The SW(m,n) can be
proved 1-edge hamiltonian and hamiltonian laceable if
n≥4; 1p-hamiltonian ifn≥4 except for SW(6,5), where m is
even and n can be either even or odd, and specified as a
node matrix in a path, or in a radial-ring planar
configuration.
The network systems are schemed to have optimal-
degree and bothnodes’and links’fault tolerance as well as
the mechanism for integrating area’s transportation,
security, telecommunication and maintenance management.
Moreover, similar to central-place theory’s establishment,
the SW networks are prototyped for wireless
telecommunication cellular configurations to benefit future
security oriented urbanism.
References
[1] Bondy, J. And Murty, U.S.R. (1980) Graph Theory
with Application, North Holand, New York.
[2] Cho, H.-J. and Hsu, L.-Y. (2003). “Generalized 
Honeycomb Torus”, Information Processing Letters,
vol. 86(4), pp. 185-190.
[3] Cho, H.-J., and Hsu, L.-Y. (2002).“Ring Embedding in 
Faulty Honeycomb Rectangular Torus”, Information
Processing Letters, V0l. 84(5), pp. 277-284.
[4] Elliot S. and Dailey D. (1995). Wireless
Communications for Intelligent Transportation
Systems, pp.34-36, Artech.
[5] Fathy, T. (1991) Telecity–Information Technology
and Its Impact on City Form, p. 35, p. 39, Praeger,
New York.
[6] Frey, H. (1999). Designing the City: Towards a More
Sustainable Urban Form, pp. 32-33, pp. 40-50,
Routledge.
[7] Goodall, B. (1974), The Economics of Urban Area, p.
312, Pergamon.
[8] Hsu, L.-Y. and Cho, H.-J. (2006). ”Developing 
Generalized Honeycomb Torus Networks for
Sustainable Parking Structures in the Globalizing
Age”, Proceedings of Security and Management ‘06,
pp. 266~271, CSREA Press.
[9] Hsu, L.-Y. Ling, F.-I. Kao, S.-S. and Cho, H.-J. (2005)
“Ring Embedding in Faulty Generalized Honeycomb
Tori”, submitted to Applied Mathematics and
Computation .
[10] Hsu, L.-Y. Kao, S.-S. and Cho, H.-J. (2006).
“Developing Dual-Surveillance Based Networks for
Intelligent Tunnel Management”, World Tunnell
Congress 2006 and Tunnelling and Underground
Space Technology -incorporating Trenchless
Technology Research, vol. 21(3-4), pp. 415-416 and
CD.
[11] Hsu, L.-Y. and Kao, S.-S. (2006a) ”Developing 
Sustainability/Security in E-Urbanism with Bipartite
GHT/SW Networks”, Modernization and
Regionalism: Re-inventing Urban Identity,
International Forum on Urbanism 2006 in Beijing,
(eds: C. Y. Wang, Q. Sheng, C. Sezer), pp. 603~611
(Vol. 2), IFoU, Netherlands.
[12] Hsu, L.-Y. and Kao, S.-S. (2006b).”Developing Dual-
Surveillance Based Vehicle Security Management
with Generalized Honeycomb Tori”, Proceedings of
Security and Management ‘06, pp. 314~320, CSREA
Press.
[13] Hsu, L.-Y. Lin, T.-Y. and Kao, S.-S. (2007).
“Hamiltonian Laceability of Some Generalized
Honeycomb Tori”, submitted to Proceedings of
IeCCS - American Institute of Physics.
[14] Imai, H. et al (2005) Wireless Communications
Security, pp.61- 63, Artech House.
[15] Kao, S.-S. and Hsu, L.-H. (2005a). “The Globally Bi-
3* and Hyper Bi-3* Connectedness of the Spider Web
Networks”, Applied Mathematics and Computation,
170(1), pp. 597-610.
[16] Kao, S.-S. and Hsu, L.-H. (2005b).“Hamiltonian
Laceability of Spider Web Networks”, Chung Yuan
Journal, 33(1).
[17] Kao, S.-S. and Hsu, L.-H. (2005c).“Spider Web
Networks: a Family of Optimal, Fault Tolerant,
Hamiltonian Bipartite Graphs”, Applied Mathematics
and Computation, 160(1), pp. 269-282.
[18] Keeble, L. (1969). Principles and Practice of Town
and Country Planning, 4th ed., p. 50, p. 102, p. 112 ,
Estates Gazette.
[19] Lynch, K. (1987). Good City Form, pp. 73-75, p. 242,
p. 332, pp. 372-380, MIT press.
[20] Rappaport, T. (1997), Wireless Communications:
Principles & Practice, pp. 26-29, Prentice Hall.
[21] Stojmenovic, I. (1997). "Honeycomb Networks:
Topological Properties and Communication
Algorithms", IEEE Trans. Parallel and Distributed
Systems, vol. 8, pp. 1036-1042.
[22] Sussman, J. (2005). Perspectives on Intelligent
Transportation Systems, p.40, p. 90, p.152, p. 178, p.
204, p.214, Springer.
Acknowledgement
This work is partially supported by Grant NSC-95-
2221-E-157-010, Taiwan, ROC.
for security can benefit the flexible development of land use, which can also benefit establishing the
hardware of global cities. Moreover, providing networks of intelligent information processing and
communication not only can help building/infrastructure security, but also can benefit contemporary
business activities or the software application in global cities, with reliability, efficiency and
systematical development and management.
Furthermore, the honeycomb like spider web (SW) network can be well adaptively configured for
ring-radial infrastructure system. The development of wireless, cell phone or GPS (global position
system) telecommunication often uses the honeycomb as the pattern for a district of service, which is
similar to the pattern used for developing central place theory in urban economics. Moreover, the SW
network (n: even) can benefit packet switching [18,33] which is essential for efficient information
processing or management. Therefore, SW networks are prototyped for the master e-urbanism network,
and are potentially added with linear GHT/SW networks through their mathematical laceability. The
total system can have growth flexibility and extensibility similar to the framework of central place
theory.
In this paper, after introducing basic mathematical terminologies/properties, we configure GHT/SW
networks of dual-surveillance in linear infrastructure first, and then use these linear intelligent network
systems for area’s surveillance and control. Next, we discuss the application the SW network as the
main frame in e-urbanism. Finally, we have some conclusions.
2. MATHEMATICAL DEFINITION & PROPERTY
Usually, computer and communication networks are represented by graphs where nodes represent
processors and edges represent links between processors. In this paper, we follow the graph
representation in [2]. Let G = (V, E) be a graph if V is a finite set and E is a subset of {(a, b) |(a, b) is an
unordered pair of V}. We say that V is the node set and E is the edge set of G. Two nodes a and b are
adjacent if (a, b) E. A path is a sequence of nodes such that two consecutive nodes are adjacent. A
path is delimited by [x0, x1, x2, … xn-1]. A path is called a hamiltonian path if its nodes are distinct and
span V. A cycle is a path of at least three nodes such that the first node is the same as the last node. A
cycle is called a hamiltonian cycle if its nodes are distinct except for the first node and the last node and
if they span V. A graph is called hamiltonian if it has a hamiltonian cycle. A bipartite graph G = (V, E) is
a graph such that V=AB and E is a subset of {( a, b)| aA and bB}; if G-F remains hamiltonian for
any F={a, b} with aA and bB, then G is 1p-hhamiltonian. A graph G is 1-edge hamiltonian if G-e
is hamiltonian for any eE; moreover, if there is a hamiltonian path between any pair of nodes {c, d}
with cA and dB, then the bipartite graph G is hamiltonian laceable.
The generalized honeycomb torus is defined as the following. Assume that m and n are positive
integers where n is even. Let d be any integer such that (m-d) is an even number. The generalized
honeycomb torus, GHT(m,n,d) (Figure 1) is the graph with the node set {(i,j)|0 ≤ i < m, 0 ≤ j < n}such
that (i,j) and (k,l) are adjacent if they satisfy one of the following conditions: (1). i=k and j = l±1( mod
n); (2). j=l and k=i-1 if i+j is even; and (3). i=0, k=m-1, and l=j+d( mod n) if j is even.
When d=0, GHT(m,n,0) can be called honeycomb rectangular torus, HReT(m,n), where m and n
are positive even integers [3, 4]. HReT(m,n) is the graph with the node set {(i,j)| 0 ≤ i < m, 0 ≤ j < n}
such that (i,j) and (k,l) are adjacent if they satisfy one of the following conditions: (1). i=k and j =
l±1( mod n); and (2). j=l and k=i-1( mod m) if i+j is even.
The spider web network, SW(m,n) is the graph with the node set {(i,j)| 0 ≤ i < m, 0 ≤ j < n}such
that (i,j) and (k,l) are adjacent if they satisfy one of the following conditions: (1). i=k and j = l±1; (2).
j=l and k=i+1( mod m) if i+j is odd; or (3). i=l, k=i-1( mod m) if i+j is even or j=0.
It is proved that GHT(m, n, 0) or HReT(m,n) is 1-edge hamiltonian ifn≥4; 1p-hhamiltonian ifn ≥6
or m=2,n≥4 [3]. When m and n are positive integers with n and m-n/2 being even, GHT(m, n, n/2) is
proved 1-edge hamiltonian if n ≥4; 1p-hhamiltonian if n ≥6 or m=2, n≥4 [2,15]. When m and n are
positive integers with m being even, SW(m, n) is proved 1-edge hamiltonian if n≥4; 1p-hhamiltonian if n
≥4 except for SW(6,5) ([19] for the case n being even. The case being odd can be proved similarly).Thus,
the fault-tolerance we are engaged in is systematically based. Moreover, in this article, such properties
are suggestively applied for linear critical infrastructure-paths, such as artery roads, tunnels or critical
paths in critical areas.
3. PROTOTYPING GHT/SW FOR DUAL-SURVEILLANCE LINEAR INFRASTRUCTURES
3.1 Distributing Intelligent SCADA Networks for Convincing Orderly Security Management
Disaster sensitivities, including sabotage or terrorism, should be planned for critical infrastructures
nowadays. Although efficient communication is demanded, proactive detection/computing analysis can
be more demanding for security promotion in critical infrastructure-paths. For example, on June 4, 2005,
a fire was initiated by the fuel leak of a tire truck in the 12.9-kilometer-long Frejus tunnel. Apparently,
this disaster can be prevented/reduced because the driver “saw smoke pour into the right side of his car” 
and then safely escaped from the tunnel (www.geo-earth.com/forums).
Dual-surveillance, similar to the human-beings’two eyes, can provide more integral information
for cognition and help good detection in 3D real environment [6,9,12,13,14]; for explanation, it is
impossible to watch both sides of any vehicle or target by one camera or a set of cameras installed only
in the middle section of the road. Therefore, establishing a sharp-3D-vision and real-time SCADA
network for integrative operations in critical infrastructure-paths is essential; such a network needs to be
a distributed-intelligence configuration, which can offer convincing detection and control. Nevertheless,
a critical infrastructure-path still can encounter unexpected failures, even with a well checked operation
management. Hence, we propose GHT or SW networks with a systematically proved fault-tolerance
featured with systematically checking or maintenance mechanism to reduce the possibility of failures.
At present, the CCTV (closed circuit television) is used as an efficient detection tool for proactive
protection or adaptive monitoring in the contemporary critical infrastructure-paths [8,14,24,26,34];
hence, using CCTVs and other detectors or sensors, which may be adaptively grouped in the nodes, is
recommended in our SCADA network prototypes for detecting traffic, incidents, and related data in
infrastructures. For reducing the uncertain risk of collisions of heavy-loaded image-information
transmission in a sensitive environment, the topology of the large-scale CCTV-SCADA network is
naturally expected to be ring-based, or have a hamiltonian cycle in the network.
3.2 Prototyping dual-surveillance based SCADA networks with optimal-degree
Lesser degree can generally help network economy [31]. However, the degree of the ring network
being two cannot ideally fit the degree requirement of a network of dual nodes. Traffic information
surveyed or analyzed by a node generally will be sent to the next node along with the traffic lane for
logical processing and continual management. Therefore, the dual-nodes, similar to two eyes, which
cooperate with each other, send the image-information directly to the consecutive/demanding processing
units as the single node does in conventional SCADA networks. Hence, an extra link is demanded for
dual-nodes, along with a forward node and a backward node; therefore, the minimum degree of the
dual-surveillance based SCADA network should be three. In application, the dual partner logically has
some similar attributes, for example, almost the same visual distance for potential targets; hence, the
dual partners can be basically arranged in the same section of the path/lane.
In terms of the ring, which is generally used for concerning fault-tolerance, a double-ring network
may be straightly considered for the proposed dual-nodes scheme since it can integrate two rings of dual
nodes. To regularly connect both rings of all dual nodes, each node needs three links or mathematically
each node’s degree is three. However, an infrastructure-path may have several lanes for traffic; hence,
the double-ring network is not an ideal prototype for traffic management in critical infrastructure-paths.
Nevertheless, the objective of the optimal degree being three can be set as a criterion for establishing our
dual-surveillance based SCADA network prototypes.
For considering the application of large-scale linear traffic SCADA networks, the feature of
GHT(m,n,0) is that m should be even, and the link connection of GHT(m,n,0) is rather simpler, compared
with that of GHT(m,n,n/2); the feature of GHT(m,n,n/2) is that m can be odd or even, and in planar
layouts, GHT(m,n,n/2) can offer rather direct configuration pattern for one-way or single path traffic; the
feature of SW(m,n) is that m should be even, and SW(m,n) may also used for linear one-way or single
path.
3.3 Integrating Individual Security Networks into a Large Compound Network
GHT/SW networks (i.e., GHT(m,n,0), GHT(m,n,n/2) and SW(m,n), n≥4) have both hamiltonian
property and hamiltonian laceability. Since there is a hamiltonian path between any pair of nodes of
different bipartites, two GHT/SW networks can be easily combined to have a compound hamiltonian
Such a fault-tolerant GHT/SW-SCADA network, which is integrated with the helix circulation
pattern of parking structures, can have high reliability and can be spatially featured with related services,
including direction guiding, and security protecting (Figure 4). This naturally sequential-order
hamiltonicity can also benefit systematical managing or repairing in the parking structures. Therefore,
this highly reliable network can benefit energy saving, human-center image and safety/security.
In addition, as we are now in a rapid aging world, parking-structure design should provide
demand-responsive environments especially for the elderly and the handicapped [22,27,32]. Hence,
considering the aforementioned highly reliable SCADA networks can help offer continuous and
thoughtful cares for protecting parking-structure users. From the vision of human welfare, making
pedestrian travel safe and accessible is deemed as an important element for future urban infrastructures,
and it can benefit the local economical development.
A helix circulation is used for both
users and managers in floor-to-floor
dimensions
Figure 4. Integration of GHT(m,n,0) with helix circulation
We need to consider the story height for carrying the elderly or the handicapped by the van. The
clear height of an ideal (i.e. level of service is A / LOS-A standard) parking garages should be higher
than nine feet. Moreover, airport parking structures are typically expected to design with the LOS-A
standard [6].
Such an environment can offer another beneficial possibility because parking spaces are potentially
able to provide an alternative place for freight distributing [29]. It should be mentioned that there is a
trend to use smaller truck with low floor and low noise in the cities which may be congested sometime
or somewhere. Smaller truck-capacity can well provide features with high frequency as the strategy,
since timing is a very important issue for contemporary freight services. Some small trucks, featured
with facilitating embarkation and disembarkation, are being developed.
Moreover, it is especially important for air-freights which generally use smaller containers (or
ULDs) and have a high-profile growth rate now [30]. Air cargo containers are mostly designed for using
4.1 SW+GHT for Wired Ring-Radial Area Networks
As mentioned, from historical experience, the pattern of settlement configuration often follows the
ring-radial pattern. However, from another point of view, the dominant building or the district of
dominant buildings will essentially affect the traffic flow in a radial pattern, or a ring-radial pattern if the
service distance is getting long enough to rather have a ring path for interaction between different served
places. In other words, the dominant district will naturally generate essential critical radial flows of
traffic movement in general days and also produce a demand of security which also should be
controlled/planned in a ring-radial pattern for unexpected conditions.
From such point of view, configuring a ring-radial area SCADA network, whose main task is
security, is an ideal conceptual approach especially because: (1). The ring-radial pattern can be
essentially adjusted like the grid pattern [21]; (2). Mathematical prototypes can be adapted by virtual
indexes or other means; (3). The farther the distance to the dominant building/district is, the less
security/service the demand can have; hence, some area of rather long distance to the core may use
secondary GHT/SW area SCADA networks as discussed in the previous section.
To have high security and reliability characteristics in the SCADA network (wired network is
chiefly assumed) serving the dominant building/district, the SW network (-i.e., SW(m,n), m: even, m≥4,
n≥4, and SW(6,5) [16] is excluded in this paper for its short of fault-tolerance), can be applied as the
main frame for the controlling area, and the links of the SW network can be linear GHT/SW networks
for dual-surveillance tasks of individual infrastructure-paths. In such a ring-radial SW+GHT network,
even an entire infrastructure-path encounters occupation or a sudden significant disaster/attack, other
areas still can be efficiently/effectively controlled.
Security is not the only objective for this kind of SW+GHT networks, the network of dual-node can
potentially have higher information processing power for high-quality graph/video image as well as
reliability; moreover, SW network (n: even) can provide three individual paths [18] between a pair of
bipartite nodes, and this feature can benefit efficient information processing through packet-switching
mechanism. Furthermore, this feature can help promote the application of SW network in the wireless
telecommunication system.
4.2 SW for Wireless Area Networks
The wireless telecommunication system is highly promoted for it ubiquitous communication and
computing possibilities, which are necessary requirements for advanced business. Its demand is growing
very rapid everywhere, and needs to coordinate with the changing physical environment. Hence, its
station allocation or service area needs a very flexible mechanism. The honeycomb-like configuration
pattern is applied for area telecommunication. Adding six small honeycombs/hexagons to a
honeycomb/hexagon can serve for a larger honeycomb/hexagon. The configuration pattern is similar to
the establishment of central-place theory in urban economics; moreover, an area of any amorphous
shape can be adaptively formed by such honeycomb-like configurations.
The SW networks can systematically manage different scopes of honeycomb-like configurations
with packet switching [18]. This feature can help assign reasonable working load for a local
administration unit; however, this system can provide a total control mechanism for the highest
administration. Such mechanism can also benefit regional/urban development by zoning and scheduling,
as well as coping with technology development or physical barriers. Therefore, SW networks are
prototyped for building up secure and future-oriented urbanism, for either wired or wireless
telecommunication. However, in this article, the main purpose for wireless network is for efficient
information transmission, security is the secondary concern; the defined nodes in the area network may
not be in the SW network; however, they still can have the advantage of efficiency provided by the
wireless SW network.
5. CONCLUSION
Leading global cities can provide premium services through efficient/effective telecommunication;
i.e., spatial distance has been neglected through cyberspace, and even in terms of face-to-face
communication. However, good physical city form still can integrally play the dominant role in spatial
economy, safety, human interaction or urbanism. Moreover, after the 911 event, terrorist/sabotage
attacks related to transportation and telecommunication cannot be overlooked especially in some critical
