2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
奈米聚集鑽石微結構與機械性質之研究
Microstructure and Mechanical Properties of Nano Clustered Diamond
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-231 -015
執行期限： 95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日
主持人： 譚安宏 清雲科技大學機械工程系
共同主持人： 陳振堂 清雲科技大學機械工程系
計畫參與人員：
一、摘要
因奈米聚集鑽石微結構與機械性質之應用，以
各種鑽石磨料搭配拋光帶及潤滑劑來對鎳磷鋁基板
作機械刻紋，以獲得優良的環向紋路。本研究發現刻
紋表面粗糙度、刻紋參數/、刻紋表面缺陷、碟片
磁性方向比及訊號雜訊比與各類鑽石磨料搭配拋光
帶及潤滑劑有很大的關係。本文主要將探討熱處理型
(THT)及奈米結構型(UDD)鑽石的性質及與潤滑劑
(A1與 M1)組合下，對機械刻紋之影響。實驗結果顯
示：與THT/A1及 THT/M1作比較，以UDD/M1組合
可獲得最高的刻紋參數/、碟片磁性方向比及訊號
雜訊比。增加潤滑劑濃度5到25%，其Zeta 電位、鑽
石磨料尺寸、刻紋表面粗糙度、刻紋表面缺陷數量、
刻紋參數/、碟片磁性方向比及訊號雜訊比均明顯
增加。以奈米結構型(UDD)鑽石搭配10 wt%潤滑劑
M1可得到最低的表面粗糙度、刻紋表面缺陷及較高
的碟片磁性訊號雜訊比。
關鍵詞：奈米結構;侵蝕;磁性性質;表面性質
Abstract
The mechanical texturing process is that which is
utilized to generate circumferential texture patterns on
the NiP surface using a pliable tape while supplying a
lubricant and diamond slurry. We investigate the
texture surface roughness, texture parameter /,
texture scratch defects, orientation ratio (OR) and signal
to noise ratio (SNR) performances of disks prepared by
three combinations of thermally heat treated diamond
(THT) and ultra dispersed diamond (UDD) with
coolants labeled A1 and M1. Experimental results
show that the substrates textured with UDD/M1 slurry
can create a disk surface with the highest parameter/,
which results in the highest OR and SNR, as compared
to substrates textured with THT/A1 and THT/M1
slurries. By increasing the texture coolant
concentration from 5 to 25%, the Zeta potential,
diamond size, texture roughness, texture scratch pixel
count, parameter /, OR and SNR increase
dramatically. The UDD diamond and 10 wt% M1
coolant showed the best performance with respect to
lower surface finish (Ra), lower scratches and higher
SNR.
Keywords: Nanostructures; etching; magnetic
properties; surface properties
關鍵詞：奈米結構;侵蝕;磁性性質;表面性質
二、計畫緣由與目的
In order to continue to increase the disk drive
recording densities, we need to improve the read/write
performance and reduce surface defects found on the
substrates. This is in relation to the need for lower
head-disk-spacing [1] and sputter alloy compositions
while obtaining NiP structure improvements [2].
Magnetic recording properties are strongly related to
orientation ratio (OR) which is a function of several
factors, such as the texturing process [3, 4] and
crystallography of the layered structures [5].
It is well known that the mechanical texturing
process is purposed to generate circumferential texture
patterns on the substrate surface with tape and diamond
slurry (diamond powder, coolant and DI water). This
texturing on NiP plated Al-substrates induces a
magnetic anisotropy on the medium. Whether or not
the texturing slurry may contribute beneficially toward
the improvement of the substrate’s anisotropic 
properties, surface defects and magnetic performance,
has not yet been fully studied.
The OR is a parameter that characterizes the
directional preference of the magnetic properties of the
recording media. It can be defined as the ratio of the
remnant magnetization (Mr) along a circumferential
path and radial direction. Experimental data shows
that media with high OR has higher spectral signal to
noise ratio (SNR) [6]. There are possible
mechanisms affecting this such as shape anisotropy due
to shadowing effects during film growth, preferred
orientation of Cr (100) and Co (110), C-axis alignment,
and stress effect, etc. are discussed by Johnson et al [7].
4making the caving easier. On the other hand, Fig. 5c
reveals that the UDD/M1 slurry generates relatively
shallow and dense grooves when compared to THT/M1
slurries of Figs. 5b. The texture parameter /in the
radial direction of textured surfaces are 0.048, 0.056
and 0.067 when THT/A1, THT/M1 and UDD/M1
slurries are used. Therefore, the /value observed
with the combination of UDD and M1 was superior to
that the other two combinations. There are two
reasons for this affect. First, the contribution of UDD
to beneficial texture properties is inherent in its physical
characteristics. UDD when dispersed in texturing
slurry forms clusters of smaller individual particles.
The effective particle size distribution is then a
secondary function of the primary crystallites.
Therefore, instead of having discrete edges for cutting
as observed with the THT diamond, UDD provides
multiple cutting edges. Additionally, since the cluster
is a loosely bonded formation, the cluster will break
down when acted upon by shear stresses, reducing the
potential for scratches.
The second contributing factor to texture performance
is imparted by the vehicle itself. Rather than merely
providing lubrication and dispersion as observed with
and used in conjunction with THT, the coolant will aid
in increasing or decreasing the cluster size of UDD.
This phenomenon is a result of the electrical double
layer formed on the surface of the UDD cluster. The
cluster size will increase or decrease depending upon
the surface area required in an equilibrium state of the
chemical potentials between the aqueous medium and
the UDD cluster. Therefore, by optimizing the texture
vehicle, one might optimize the size and stability of the
UDD cluster while maintaining the primary crystallite
size. This is readily observed in the experimental data
regarding surface finish and /. Surface roughness
and texture scratch pixel count of all disks textured
surfaces are shown in Figs. 6 and 7, respectively. The
lowest surface AFM Ra and texture scratch pixel count
are found in the UDD/M1 slurry.
As shown in Fig. 8, M1 has also been determined to
demonstrate an increase of 16% of /as compared to
the use of A1. This is due to the oxidizing chemical
nature of higher boric acid concentration which firstly
oxidizes the surface thus softening the substrate surface.
Futhermore, this higher boric acid concentration of the
coolant M1 generates relatively deep grooves.
Additionally, M1 when used with UDD demonstrated a
20% increase in/as compared to THT. The highest
/is observed in the combination of UDD and M1.
This demonstrates the fact that the cluster formed with
the use of M1 is more appropriate for this application.
Again, this further substantiates the theory that the
texture coolant is contributing to cluster size and
stability in addition to providing necessary lubrication
for this process.
4.3. Orientation ratio and signal-to noise ratio
The OR which is used to characterize the anisotropy
media is the ratio of the remnant magnetization along
the circumferential direction to that along the radial
direction. Fig. 9 shows the Mrt-OR which were
measured from the hysteresis loops in both
circumferential and radial directions of the sample using
various slurries. The OR trend chart of texture with
UDD/M1 is always higher than that of THT/M1 and
THT/A1 slurries. OR increases with an increase in the
/[11]. As shown in Fig. 9, an increase in is
observed when UDD is utilized rather than THT. UDD
provides approximately 4% higher OR than the THT
diamond. M1 also demonstrated 6% higher OR than
A1 coolant. Again, this further substantiates the
theory that the texture coolant is contributing to cluster
size and stability in addition to providing the necessary
lubrication for this process. Fig. 10 shows the
SpectralSNR data of the disks textured with different
diamond and coolants at different concentration of 5%
to 25%. Note that SpectralSNR is the signal to
integrated noise ratio. The high/results in high OR
which leads to high Spectral SNR, as shown in Figs. 9
and 10. There are very good correlations among /,
OR and SNR, respectively. This result suggests that
the substrates textured with UDD/M1 slurry can create
a disk surface with the lowest surface finish (Ra), the
lowest scratch count and the highest parameter/, due
to the diamond’s ability to form a cluster of varying size 
and stability, which results in the highest OR and the
highest SNR, as compared to substrates textured with
THT/A1 and THT/M1 slurries.
五、結論
The substrates textured with the slurry of UDD
diamond and M1 coolant can create a disk surface with
the highest texture parameter /, due to the diamond’s 
ability to form a cluster of varying size and stability,
which results in the highest OR and the highest SNR, as
compared to substrates textured with THT/A1 and
THT/M1 slurries.
A potential pathway towards high recording density
is to optimize the micelle size of the texture coolant
specific to UDD wherein an optimum cluster size and
stability is obtained.
誌謝
The author would like to thank for the National
Science Committee of Taiwan for their financial
support under Grant NSC95-2221-E-231-015. The
author appreciates also the sample preparation and
testing support by Showa Denko HD Trace, Taiwan and
in addition, Innovative Organics and Warren Diamond
located in the USA are gratefully acknowledged for
their assistance with the materials, disk preparation and
experimental work.
六、參考文獻
[1] C. M. Mate, Q. Dai, R. N. Payne, B. E. Knigge and
P. Baumgart, IEEE Trans. Magn. 41 (2005) 626.
[2] J. Zhou, B. R. Acharya, P. Gill, E. N. Abarra, M.
Zheng and G. Choe, IEEE Trans. Magn. 41 (2005)
3160.
[3] M. Taratorin, K. B. Klaassen and E. Marinero,
IEEE Trans. Magn. 41 (2005) 3079.
[4] B. R. Acharya, M. Zheng, G. Choe, M. Yu, P. Gill,
and E. N. Abarra, IEEE Trans. Magn. 41 (2005)
3145.
[5] J. H. Judy, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. 287 (2005) 16.
6Fig. 6. AFM texture surface Ra verse coolant
concentration of THT/A1, THT/M1 and UDD/M1
combination.
Fig. 7. Textured surface scratch pixel count verse
coolant concentration of THT/A1, THT/M1 and
UDD/M1 combination.
Fig. 8. Texture parameter  verse coolant
concentration of THT/A1, THT/M1 and UDD/M1
combination.
Fig. 9. Mrt orientation ratio verse coolant concentration
of THT/A1, THT/M1 and UDD/M1 combination.
Fig. 10. Spectral signal to noise ratio verse coolant
concentration of THT/A1, THT/M1 and UDD/M1
combination.
2Session G Physico-chemical Methods of Corrosion Testing
Session H Marine Corrosion
Session I Microbial Corrosion
Session J Corrosion of Steel in Concrete
Session K Corrosion in Oil and Gas Production
Session L Coatings
Session M Corrosion in the Refinery Industry
Session N Cathodic Protection
Session O Automotive Corrosion
Session P Tribo-Corrosion
Session Q Corrosion of Polymer Materials
此 外 大 會 還 提 供 了 Business-to-Business Plaza,
matchmaking 及 Exhibition 之活動，以作為大家學術研討以外，
在未來研究工作夥伴及事業上合作提供了更直接得機會。
在參加會議同時，能與來至全世界的學者專家討論與切磋，彼
此相談甚歡，也讓我對整個國際觀亦提昇許多。
二、 論文發表情形
論文在大會被安排為 Tribo-Corrosion單元之海報論文發表，同時
也有數十篇同樣是磨耗腐蝕方面的論文發表，本次與會我是海報報
告的場次，主題為磨耗腐蝕方面議題，出席者來自台灣、日本、英
國、美國等，主持人為 Prof. Dr. ir. Jean-Pierre CELIS。確實是一
國際交流，討論熱烈。藉由海報的展示以引發學者間的討論，也是
很好的交流經驗。
回國後投稿於國際 WEAR 期刊，刊載卷期如下：
A. H. Tan and Y. C. Cheng, “Wear-Corrosion Properties of Diamond
Conditioners in CMP slurry”, Wear, 2007, Vol. 262, pp. 693–698. SCI
