1.  Introduction 
 
In several previous experimental studies of electric field-induced fatigue crack growth of 
ferroelectric ceramics, researchers have grown fatigue cracks from Vicker’s indentations, 
and have shown that the predominant direction of fatigue crack growth is perpendicular 
to the applied electric field.1-3  The phenomenon of fatigue crack growth in ferroelectrics 
under cyclic electric fields above the coercive field (Ec) is also documented.2,4  Several 
authors have used in situ field-emission scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and 
transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to study crack tip deformation and micro-
cracking from fine pores due to electrical loading.5-7  Although a substantial literature 
now exists concerning electric field induced fatigue crack growth, there is still a lack of 
data for fatigue crack growth over 106 or more cycles; moreover, the available data are 
limited in scope in terms of material type, and loading amplitude. 
 
The present study gives a systematic set of measurements of fatigue crack growth in 
ferroelectrics under purely electrical loading and assesses various possible correlating 
parameters.  The present work reports fatigue crack growth measurements, and details 
morphology of fatigue cracks.  The focus of the experimental part of this study is on the 
characterization and observed mechanism of crack propagation in soft lead zirconate 
titanate (PZT-5H).  Electric field-induced fatigue crack growth measurements, in the 
form of crack extension as a function of the number of cycles, are presented.  The 
dielectric hysteresis of cracked specimens during fatigue, and the morphology of the 
fatigue crack itself, are described. 
 
2.  Experimental procedure 
 
A brief description of the key features of experimental procedure is given below. 
 
2.1.  Choice of material 
The ceramic PZT-5H was chosen for this study because it is widely used in engineering 
devices, exhibits nonlinearity at relatively low field strengths, and has strong 
electromechanical coupling.  The PZT-5H was obtained in bulk polycrystalline form with 
grain size 5–10 µm, a composition close to the morphotropic phase boundary, and a 
Curie temperature of approximately 195°C. 
 
2.2.  Specimen preparation 
Cuboidal specimens measuring 5mm×2mm×3mm (width × thickness × height) were cut 
from the bulk PZT-5H.  Silver based paints were applied onto the 5mm×2mm faces of the 
specimens to form electrodes, and all other surfaces were polished to a 1-µm finish. 
(Unpolished specimens were found to develop numerous cracks rapidly during high 
amplitude cyclic loading.)  A V-notch of depth approximately 0.1mm was then scribed 
mid-way between the electrodes on one of the 2mm×3mm side faces with a diamond-
tipped scriber; the V-notch was parallel to the electrodes and ran across the entire 2mm 
thickness of each specimen.  The fatigue cracks were initiated from a notch to produce, as 
nearly as possible, a through-thickness crack.  Conductive epoxy was used to connect 
wires to the electroded surfaces of the specimens for electric field excitation. 
 1
fracture surfaces by SEM indicated that the fatigue crack in the PZT-5H specimen existed 
across the section thickness and was not merely a superficial crack.  The fatigue-crack 
surface was predominantly intergranular.  The evolution of the nominal D–E curves for 
the Emax = 3.0Ec specimen, from that recorded at the start of the fatigue loading to that 
after crack arrest (a = 3 mm), is shown in Fig. 3.  A 15% reduction in the saturation 
remanent polarization of the specimen was observed during the test, and the switch of 
polarization in the vicinity of the coercive field strength became less abrupt with 
increased cycling. 
 
4.  Conclusions 
 
Fatigue crack growth data have been presented for PZT-5H, subjected to purely electrical 
loading.  Under fully reversed cyclic loading with amplitude Emax = 0.9Ec to 3.0Ec, cracks 
grow from a V-notch in PZT-5H, with the predominant direction of growth perpendicular 
to the applied electric field.  The rate of advance of cracks decreases with increasing 
cycle number, finally resulting in arrest.  The arrested crack length increases with 
loading amplitude Emax.  For the case of PZT-5H a damaged band of material forms, 
consisting of separated grains, with the height of the band varying parabolically with 
distance from the crack tip.  It is proposed that the cracked zone of material acts as a 
dielectric inhomogeneity, which produces a region of enhanced electric field ahead of it, 
where individual grain boundaries have an increased probability of failure.  This suggests 
that crack advance or arrest is a stochastic process depending on local heterogeneity of 
switching behavior and on the distribution of grain boundary flaws.  The key finding of 
this study has been published in the literature (Journal of the European Ceramic Society, 
2006, vol.26, pp.95–109). 
 
 
 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 (a) SEM images of a band of damaged material on crack flanks (PZT-5H). (b) 
Damaged band height H vs. distance behind the crack tip x, for specimens loaded 
at various amplitudes of electric field. All specimens were V-notched PZT-5H; 
loading frequency = 20 Hz. 
 
 
 
 
 5
