 Securing Traffic at QoS-aware Residential Gateway 
Using Biometric Signatures 
Pei-Chen Tseng, Jing-Wein Wang, Member, IEEE, and Wen-Shyang Hwang, Member, IEEE 
 
Abstract —Home networks are becoming ubiquitous. 
Multimedia is a primary home network application that is 
challenging bandwidth capabilities with respect to QoS and 
also creating issues regarding authorized access to the home 
network and its digital content. To deal with these issues, this 
study presents an embedded QoS-aware residential gateway 
(EmQRG) in the home network which classifies forwarded 
traffic for optimal use of bounded network bandwidth 
resources and, instead of traditional password methodology, 
requires bimodal biometric recognition of users. A laboratory 
EmQRG testbed with bimodal biometric recognition system 
(BBRS) is implemented via class-based queuing (CBQ) 
bandwidth management in a 3-PC network including a real 
DiffServ-capable CBQ-capable router, CCD camera and 
optical fingerprint reader. Novel computational methods are 
used for face and fingerprint analysis and recognition. It is 
confirmed that combining two biometric modalities improves 
performance, particularly for the false acceptance rate (FAR) 
that is considered the most serious home security problem. 
Experimental results demonstrate efficiency and robustness of 
both the EmQRG and the BBRS1. 
 
Index Terms — Home Network, QoS, Embedded System, 
Biometric Identification.  
I. INTRODUCTION 
The number of microprocessor-embedded network-capable 
devices is increasing rapidly in the home. This together with 
broadband convergence networking (BcN) and inter-
networked home devices is making the digital home network a 
ubiquitous 24-7 computing and communication environment 
[1]-[2]. A home gateway/residential gateway (HG/RG) is 
needed to interconnect multiple home devices to one another 
and to the Internet. Further, multimedia issues necessitate a 
means to manage user accounts for legal access to digital 
contents whether stored within the home network or stored in 
commercial libraries. Such security tasking must have suitable 
priority but without unnecessary disruption in the rest of the 
network. Good QoS should include suitable allocation of 
resources in the network (e.g. bandwidth, priority) so that data 
 
1 Supported under Grant No. MoE 0940071581N by National Kaohsiung 
University of Applied Sciences and the Ministry of Education, Taiwan, ROC. 
Pei-Chen Tseng and Wen-Shyang Hwang are now with Department of 
Electrical Engineering, National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan (e-mail: peichen@wshlab2.ee.kuas.edu.tw, 
wshwang@mail.ee.kuas.edu.tw ). 
Jing-Wein Wang is now with Institute of Photonics and Communications, 
National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences, Kaohsiung, Taiwan (e-
mail: jwwang@cc.kuas.edu.tw ). 
gets to its destination quickly and consistently. Real-time 
applications such as video play and VoIP are usually given 
higher priority than other applications. However, 
exceptionally high priority must be given to security tasks 
such that they have the right to interrupt many but not all 
media and similar data tasks.  
Various groups including OSGi, DHWG, CELF, DLNA, 
UPnP forum, and RIAA are driving convergence of the digital 
home network for interoperability of multimedia networking 
and legal security/action in the home network. Their emphases 
can be summarized as follows:  
z Interoperability of media management and control 
between different types of multimedia devices; 
z QoS management for digital content, especially 
bandwidth and delay sensitive applications such as 
audio/video (AV) streams, voice, and games; 
z User recognition based on biometric signatures.  
This paper supports these objectives in a twofold manner. 
Firstly, based on our previous work [3] on a DiffServ-QoS 
bandwidth management mechanism during network 
congestion, we introduce an embedded QoS-aware residential 
gateway (EmQRG) in the home network to classify forwarded 
traffic for optimal use of bounded network bandwidth 
resources. EmQRG is verified experimentally in real-time via 
class-based queuing (CBQ) bandwidth management in a real 
DiffServ-capable CBQ-capable router, whereas our earlier 
QRG system was implemented only via Mrouter-PC 
emulation. Secondly, this paper protects digital content by a 
bimodal biometric recognition system (BBRS) using 
combined face and fingerprint traits. BBRS in conjunction 
with EmQRG is evaluated experimentally by the system 
shown in Fig. 1.  
 
 
Fig. 1.  Network architecture of EmQRG. Peripheral units are equipped 
with one or more biometric recognition devices (e.g. CCD camera, 
fingerprint reader, etc) for access control of home network digital content.    
 
 incoming and outgoing IP packets that travel through the IP 
stack according to the firewall rules. To allow or deny IP 
packets to the IP stack, the IP firewall also provides flow 
accounting, flow shaping and flow redirection. Consequently 
the IP firewall is used to implement the so-called DSME 
(DiffServ Marker Engine), as shown in Fig. 2, within the 
EmQRG system. Under Linux kernel version 2.4.18_eixp425, 
iptables are developed to support the IP firewall. 
DSME is a mechanism which performs DiffServ-QoS. The 
following details the DSME packet processing scenario for 
traffic forwarded via the IP Firewall shown in Fig. 2, while 
the outgoing traffic is described in our earlier work [3]:  
(1) Traffic (packet) forwarding through the EmQRG is 
intercepted by the IP firewall. 
(2) DSME requests the IP firewall to redirect matched 
packets (e.g. IP packets that have the same destination 
address and the same port number) to the specific system 
port in conformance with the firewall rules. 
(3) Once the packet is redirected to the specific system port, 
it does not travel directly forward.  
(4) DSME adopts divert socket to bind the specific port, 
then reads raw packets (the whole IP packet including 
the IP header). The TOS (type of service) fields of the IP 
header of raw packets are modified by the DiffServ-TOS 
conversion values in DSME. The modified packets are 
sent back to divert socket. 
(5) Then the modified packets are sent back to the firewall. 
(6) The modified packets are then sent to the appropriate 
network application for further processing if needed. 
Otherwise, they go directly to step 8. 
(7) The modified packets are sent to the firewall again. 
(8) Finally, the modified packets continue to travel forward. 
This mechanism utilizes a special type of RAW socket 
called divert (IPPROTO_DIVERT) that allows receiving and 
sending just like regular sockets. The difference is that a 
divert socket is bound to a specific system port, so the firewall 
can be instructed to send only certain packets, i.e. the firewall 
can filter out packets for the divert socket. 
  
TABLE I 
TRAFFIC CLASSIFICATION IN THE EMQRG  
 
 
In the general home network environment, applications 
with very different characteristics and network requirements 
compete for bounded network resources. The proposed 
EmQRG can classify forward traffic flow as (but not limited 
to) security traffic, multimedia traffic, ICMP traffic, file 
transfer traffic, web traffic, interactive traffic, and BE traffic 
(traffic types listed in Table I). The EmQRG then assigns each 
class of traffic a preset DiffServ-QoS value. Herein, 
multimedia traffic, which belongs to the UDP transport 
service protocol, is marked as “EF” (expedited forwarding, 
typically DSCP value 46) to minimize delay and jitter and 
provide the highest level of aggregate QoS. This is performed 
by DSME via the IP firewall, which filters out the UDP traffic 
and redirects it to the specific system port 9990. DSME uses 
the divert socket to bind this port and modifies the TOS field 
to 184 in the IP header. After that, the EF bandwidth is 
reserved when the multimedia application is running. 
B. Elliptic face segmentation and face recognizer 
The proposed face segmentation method, designated 
FCExtractor for facial component extractor, uses a robust 
wavelet-based technique combining image- and feature-based 
methods. First the eyes and mouth are extracted, including the 
width of the mouth and the distance (width) from the outside 
of one eye to the outside of the other. Then, unlike prior 
methods which use rectangles, FCExtractor uses best-fit 
ellipses to enclose the facial region since use of rectangles 
tends to include unnecessary data such as hair, ears, neck, 
shirt collar, background, etc [7]-[9]. The elliptic region 
circumscribes the eye-mouth triangle. Moreover, a head 
orientation estimation is generated for estimating the view 
angle and is the basis for FCExtractor’s multiview face 
recognition. FCExtractor requires no manual parameter 
adjustment for input images, can be implemented in real time 
and its underlying assumptions are minimal. The algorithm 
input information is a color head-and-shoulders view of a 
person. Background data is permissible. The facial region can 
be as small as 24 × 24 pixels. The FCExtractor algorithm 
consists of five operation stages and is outlined in Fig. 3. It 
begins with a low-level process like color detection. Then it 
uses higher level operations that involve some heuristic 
knowledge about the local connectivity of the face texture in 
the later stages. Thus, each stage makes full use of the results 
yielded by its preceding stage to refine the output.  
Color information is used for the initial face-locating 
problem since human faces have a special color distribution 
that differs from most background objects, clothes, hair, etc 
[10]. FCExtractor performs a chrominance-based 
segmentation using a Y Cb Cr  color model, i.e. Y represents 
luminance while Cb and Cr  represent chrominance 
components. When a face image is presented to the system 
(Fig. 3(a)), a modified Y Cb Cr  model [11] is applied to Fig. 
3(a), producing Fig. 3(b). This image strongly emphasizes the 
color distribution found only in the human face and not found 
elsewhere, generating a strong clue as to the probable face 
location in an otherwise unconstrained environment. Next, 
one level overcomplete D4 wavelet decomposition [12] is 
 identification mode: accurate acceptance rate (AAR), accurate 
rejection rate (ARR), false rejection rate (FRR), and false 
acceptance rate (FAR). The fitness function security level is 
adjusted by tuning the action factors (α1, α2, α3, and α4). The 
values for α1, α2, α3, and α4 are experimentally determined and 
are set to α1 = 100, α2 = 1, α3 = 1, and α4 = 100.  
 
 
Fig. 4.  Proposed self-eigenface recognizer.   
 
C. Fingerprint recognition by kernel subregion algorithm 
Fingerprint recognition herein is based on the kernel 
subregion. The kernel point is defined as the point in the 
fingerprint that has the maximum direction change. The kernel 
subregion is the 100 × 100 pixel area surrounding the 
kernel point. Log-polar mapping is used to extract the 
translation-invariant features derived from the discrete 
wavelet frame transform (DWFT) [12]. The formula of (1) 
genetically selects the most discriminative log-polar feature 
subset by disregarding redundant features via SVM 
classification. This reduces final error at the decision stage as 
the result of minutiae extracted at earlier stages [17]-[19]. An 
alternative filter-based method [20] works well but is not 
suitable for on-line systems because of expensive computation. 
Use of the fingerprint kernel subregion accelerates 
identification. The initial threshold is set as the mean of the 
energy image. Then the threshold value is gradually changed 
until the observed pixel-of-threshold (point) density of the 
whole image is around 50% ~ 60%, which is good 
representation for objects we are detecting [21]. The novelty 
of our framework comes from:  
(1) the kernel-based method has good tolerance for 
image noise and capture-to-capture irregularities; 
(2) use of a feature alignment line to minimize feature 
variations in the feature extraction stage;  
(3) derivation of a fitness function for selection of 
discriminative features and threshold values.  
The block diagram in Fig. 5 operates as follows: 
z Off-line phase:  
Each fingerprint’s kernel subregion is segmented in a 
preprocessing module and then fed to the feature extraction 
module. The module rejects features with no discriminative 
information, thus producing near-optimal feature subsets 
which are then stored as Fingercode at the Data Server. 
z On-line phase:  
The fingerprint reader captures an image. The kernel 
subregion is segmented as in the off-line phase and then fed to 
the feature extraction module. The extracted fingerprint 
features are compared to the pre-stored Fingercode. 
 
 
Fig. 5.  Flowchart of proposed fingerprint recognition algorithm.   
III. SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION 
A BBRS-enabled experimental home network based around 
an EmQRG is implemented. The EmQRG itself is embedded 
in an Intel-based mainboard running a Linux OS. As seen in 
Fig. 7, our network contains a CCD camera and an optical 
fingerprint reader and three PCs. The Internet is simulated by 
four real DiffServ-capable routers [22]. 
The EmQRG functions as the heart of the home network, 
and interconnects a wide variety of devices. Multimedia and 
game devices have wide bandwidth and high priority. 
However, movie downloading for storage can have a much 
lower priority. A digital home will have a large number of 
sensors (e.g. fire, smoke, refrigerator temperature) and 
switches (e.g. lock/unlock door, turn on/off lights). Some of 
these, for example fire sensors, have extremely high priority, 
but their bandwidth demands are small. Regardless, EmQRG 
must coordinate these various data streams reliably. 
Since every device in the network has its own IP address, 
basic network functionality is confirmed by pinging all the 
devices. Pinging however involves only tiny and momentary 
bandwidth. Multimedia is a primary issue in the home 
network, so next we watch a movie on the second PC that is 
stored on the hard disk of the first PC. Success at this task 
confirms bandwidth capabilities, but only for a non-congested 
traffic situation. So then we test different congestion problems, 
such as streaming two or three movies at the same time, first 
 
 
 
Fig. 7.  Physical layout of testbed.  
 
TABLE II  
BANDWIDTH ALLOCATION AT DIFFSERV-CAPABLE CBQ-CAPABLE R1 
ROUTER 
 
 
Experiment 1: The Fig. 7 links the real DiffServ-capable 
routers by 5 isolated channels with the non-sharable 
bandwidths shown in Table II and a total bounded bandwidth 
of 10 Mbps. The Client and H1 separately deliver UDP 
multimedia film by vlc to the Data Server, which contains two 
different IPs for the two different senders. To simulate 
congested conditions, H1 also sends a background traffic (i.e. 
BE traffic) streams, 750 pkts/s, 512 bytes/pkt shown in Fig. 
8(a), to the Data Server. If the EmQRG activates the DiffServ-
QoS mechanism for classifying forwarded traffic priorities, 
then the packet header of any UDP traffic is changed by 
DSME to EF according to the EmQRG traffic classifications 
shown in Table I. 
In experiment 1, the results of statistical analysis by the 
command “sh interfaces accounting” at the router R1 and by 
the PRTG Traffic Grapher at the Data Server show that total 
traffic equals 160417 packets (111615562 bytes) with 29936 
packet drops to be sent. BE traffic equals 146284 packets 
(92422948 bytes) with 29936 packet drops. EF traffic equals 
14133 packets (19192614 bytes) with 0 packet drops. This 
means the film is showing at the Data Server with a 18.66% 
packet drop rate. Comparative QoS during network 
congestion is seen in Fig. 8(b). The upper image is from the 
Client under EmQRG with DiffServ-QoS activation, showing 
high QoS without packet loss. The lower image is from H1 
without DiffServ-QoS activation, showing poor QoS and a 
20.46% packet drop rate. The lack of DiffServ-QoS activation 
clearly results in unacceptably low image quality, but with 
EmQRG and DiffServ-QoS the QoS is excellent. Numerically, 
the relative QoS’s can be evaluated in Fig. 8(c) by a Live 
Graph display of experiment 1 as generated by PRTG Traffic 
Grapher packet sniffing at the Data Server. 
Experiment 2: An authorized user captures his current 
face/fingerprint data at the Client, watermarks the facial data 
and sends it (as in Fig. 9(a)) to the Data Server. The Data 
Server performs feature extraction on the face/fingerprints and 
compares the results with its database. The Data Server finds a 
positive match and displays Fig. 9(b), showing the 
watermarked picture in the lower left and the database picture 
in the lower right, with the invisible watermark to the left. 
Below that is the bit error rate (BER) of the picture’s invisible 
watermark relative to the original watermark stored in the 
database. Below that is the computation time in milliseconds. 
The two recently captured fingerprints are shown in the upper 
left, with the user’s database face in the upper right. Input and 
database fingerprint/face data match so access is granted. The 
user’s database file photo along with approval of the access 
request are sent to the Client as Fig. 9(c). 
Fig. 10 shows results for an unauthorized user. Initial data 
capture is as Fig. 10(a). The Data Server finds a non-match for 
both face and fingerprints and shows Fig. 10(b). Fig. 10(c) is 
returned to the Client, rejecting the access request. In fact, if 
either fingerprint or face fails the match test, the Data Server 
immediately stops the recognition process and returns a 
rejection to the Client.  
Experiment 3: Over one week our laboratory group 
repeatedly tried to access the BBRS-protected system. 600 
authorized and 1000 unauthorized access attempts were made. 
Data analysis is made for the two monomodal cases and the 
bimodal case. Face-only monomodal data show authorized 
users had 562 correct acceptances, 12 incorrect acceptances 
and 26 incorrect rejections; unauthorized users had 965 
correct rejections and 35 incorrect rejections. Fingerprint-only 
monomodal data show authorized users had 578 correct 
acceptances, 10 incorrect acceptances and 12 incorrect 
rejections; unauthorized users had 973 correct rejections and 
27 incorrect acceptances. Face + fingerprint bimodal data 
show authorized users had 553 correct acceptances, 6 
incorrect acceptances and 41 incorrect rejections; 
unauthorized users had 991 correct rejections and 9 incorrect 
acceptances. The experiments provide the values in Table III, 
showing improved performance from bimodality, particularly 
for the FAR (false acceptance rate) parameter, which is the 
most important factor for safeguarding the home network. 
Recognition/decision execution time is directly related to 
size and background complexity of the image being processed. 
Execution time also depends on computer speed and the 
efficiency of the recognizer algorithm. Processing time on a 
3.0 GHz Pentium PC was around 1 second per face and 0.5 
second per fingerprint. These speeds meet the requirements of 
on-line recognition, but the recognizer algorithm could be 
further optimized and parallelized for increased speed. 
 
TABLE III  
RECOGNITION RATES OF THE PROPOSED METHOD 
 
 
 
International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology, 
ICACT 2006 , vol. 3, pp. 1532-1536, Feb. 2006. 
[3] W. S. Hwang and P. C. Tseng, “A QoS-aware residential gateway with 
bandwidth management,” IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, 
vol. 51, no. 3, pp. 840-848, Aug. 2005. 
[4] A. Lumini and D. Maio, “Adaptive positioning of a visible watermark 
in a digital image,” IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and 
Expo, ICME 2004, vol. 2, pp. 967-970, Jun. 2004. 
[5] P. Corcoran and A. Cucos, “Techniques for securing multimedia 
content in consumer electronic appliances using biometric signatures,” 
IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, vol. 51, no. 2, pp. 545-
551, May 2005. 
[6] P. Corcoran, C. Iancu, F. Callaly, and A. Cucos, “Biometric access 
control for digital media streams in home networks,” IEEE 
Transactions on Consumer Electronics, vol. 53, no. 3, pp. 917-925, 
Aug. 2007. 
[7] L. F. Chen, H. Y. Mark Liao, J. C. Lin, and C. C. Han, “Why 
recognition in a statistics-based face recognition system should be 
based on the pure face portion: a probabilistic decision-based proof,” 
Pattern Recognition, vol. 34, pp. 1393-1403, 2001. 
[8] A. Martinez, “Recognizing imprecisely localized, partially occluded, 
and expression variant faces from a single sample per class,” IEEE 
Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 24, no. 
6, pp. 748-763, Jun. 2002. 
[9] K. Messer, J. Kittler, M. Sadeghi, M. Hamouz, A. Kostyn, S. Marcel, S. 
Bengio, F. Cardinaux, C. Sanderson, N. Poh, Y. Rodriguez, K. 
Kryszczuk, J. Czyz, L. Vandendorpe, J. Ng, H. Cheung, and B. Tang, 
“Face authentication competition on the BANCA database,” ICBA, 
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. LNCS 3072, pp. 8-14, Jul. 
2004. 
[10] M. St¨orring, “Computer vision and human skin colour,” PhD 
dissertation, Faculty of Engineering and Science, Aalborg University, 
2004. 
[11] C. Garcia and G. Tziritas, “Face detection using quantized skin color 
regions merging and wavelet packet analysis,” IEEE Transactions on 
Multimedia, vol.1, no. 3, pp. 264-277, Sep. 1999. 
[12] S. Mallat, A Wavelet Tour of Signal Processing, 2nd ed., Academic 
Press, 2001.  
[13] Christopher J. C. Burges, “A tutorial on support vector machines for 
pattern recognition,” Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, vol. 2, no. 
2, pp. 121-167, 1998. 
[14] J. W. Wang, “Precise face segmentation for recognition,” IEEE 
International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP 2006, pp. 2045-
2048, Oct. 2006. 
[15] L. Torres and J. Vilá, “Automatic face recognition for video indexing 
applications,” Pattern Recognition, vol. 35, pp. 615-625, Mar. 2002. 
[16] Z. Sun, G. Bebbis, and R. Miller, “Object detection using feature subset 
selection,” Pattern Recognition, vol. 37, pp. 2165-2176, Nov. 2004. 
[17] A. Ross, S. Dass, and A. Jain, “A deformable model for fingerprint 
matching,” Pattern Recognition, vol. 38, pp. 95-103, Jan. 2005. 
[18] Y. Chen, S. Dass, A. Ross, and A. Jain, “Fingerprint deformation 
models using minutiae locations and orientations,” Proceedings of the 
seventh IEEE Workshop on Applications of Computer Vision, 
WACV/MOTION, vol. 1, pp. 150-155, Jan. 2005. 
[19] L. Sha, F. Zhao, and X. Tang, “Fingerprint matching using minutiae 
and interpolation-based square tessellation fingercode,” IEEE 
International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP 2005, vol. 2, pp. 
41-44, Sep. 2005. 
[20] D. Batra, G. Singhal, and S. Chaudhury, “Gabor filter based fingerprint 
classification using support vector machines,” Proceedings of the IEEE 
INDICON 2004, First India Annual Conference, pp. 256-261, Dec. 
2004. 
[21] C. Y. Hsu and J. W. Wang, “Fingerprint recognition using kernel 
subregion of fingerprint image,” CVGIP2006, Oral Section, Taoyuan 
Taiwan, Aug. 2006. 
[22] P. C. Tseng, J. K. Shiung, C. T. Huang, S. M. Guo, and W. S. Hwang, 
“Adaptive car plate recognition in QoS-aware security network,” The 
Second IEEE International Conference on Secure System Integration 
and Reliability Improvement, SSIRI 2008, Jul 2008. 
[23] R. O. Duda, P. E. Hart, and D. G. Stork, Pattern Classification, 2nd ed., 
Wiley Press, 2000. 
[24] J. Wang, K. N. Plataniotis, J. Lu, and A. N. Venetsanopoulos, “On 
solving the face recognition problem with one training sample per 
subject,” Pattern Recognition, vol. 39, pp. 1746-1762, 2006. 
 
Pei-Chen Tseng was born in Hualien, Taiwan, in 1968. 
She graduated from National Taipei Institute of 
Technology in Electronic Engineering in 1990. From 
1990 to 2001 she worked for Siemens as a 
telecommunication engineer, including five years as a 
testing engineer in EWSD switching systems, one year 
as a technical support engineer in switching systems, 
one year as a technical specialist in mobile 
telecommunication systems, and almost five years as a 
RF engineer in mobile telecommunication systems. 
Studying at the National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan, she received a B.S. in electrical engineering in 2002, a 
M.S. in 2004, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. with a focus on 
communication, protocol, multimedia, and networking. Her research interests 
include home networking, network security, and GSM/GPRS/CDMA 
telecommunication systems. She is a student member of IEEE.  
 
Jing-Wein Wang received B.S. and M.S. degrees in Electronic Engineering 
from National Taiwan University of Science and Technology in 1986 and 
1988, respectively, and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical 
Engineering from National Cheng Kung University, 
Taiwan, in 1998. From 1992 to 2000 he was a 
principal project leader at Equipment Design Center of 
PHILIPS, Taiwan. In 2000, he joined the faculty of 
National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences, 
where he is currently an associate professor in the 
Institute of Photonics and Communications. His 
current research interests are combinatorial 
optimization, pattern recognition, wavelets, and 
biometric applications. He is a member of IEEE.  
 
Wen-Shyang Hwang received B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. 
degrees in Electrical Engineering from National 
Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, in 1984, 1990, and 
1996, respectively. He is currently a professor of 
Electrical Engineering, and the chairman of 
department of computer science and information 
engineering in National Kaohsiung University of 
Applied Sciences, Taiwan. His current research 
interests are in the fields of storage area networks, 
WDM Metro-ring networks, performance evaluation, multimedia wireless 
communication, mesh networks, software design for embedded systems, 
Internet QoS, and Internet applications. He is a member of IEEE. 
 
 2
 
二、會議行程與內容 
   此次會議自 0828-0831共四天，首日為註冊、報到、及 tutorial 
section，第二~四日除 invited speaks外為分組口頭發表與海報展
示。Steering Committee 亦同時召開會議檢討本次大會之籌備與
進行細節，做為明年舉辦 ACIVS2008之參考。歡迎酒會是選在
台夫特科技大學的植物園 (Botanical Gardens) 舉行，晚宴則在
參訪深具荷蘭歷史意義的 Prinsenh of Museum 及  Court of 
William of Orange後於台夫特的舊市區餐廳用餐。當晚主辦單位
更安排大家欣賞精彩的音樂演出，並於活動尾聲中彼此互道珍
重、相約明年見。會議進行中除了特約演講者 (invited speaker)
外，也同時有來自法國 INRIA 研究中心等單位的電腦視覺系統 
(Computer Vision Systems)現場展示。 
由於 ACIVS2007 之主題涵概 Dimensionality reduction、 
Feature extraction、Feature Selection、及 Patter Recognition等相
關領域，與本人之研究範疇極為接近。況且，與會者有些是以前
在 papers 上曾見過名字的作者，親睹其本尊之演說另有一番感
受。例如 :來自知名的 Delft Pattern Recognition Group/Delft 
University of Technology 的Robert P. W. Duin教授；在 IEEE Trans. 
